<!-- SOURCE: combined_oran_wg1.md -->
<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN-WG1-CCIN-TR-R004-v01.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG1.CCIN-R004-v01.00 O-RAN Work Group 1 (Use Cases and Overall Architecture) Communication and Computing Integrated Networks"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms apply:

## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:

## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1]. CCIN Communication and Computing Integrated Networks MEC Multi-Access Edge Computing NFV Network Function Virtualization Near-RT RIC Near-Real-Time RAN Intelligent Controller O-Cloud O-RAN Cloud O-CU-CP O-RAN Central Unit – Control Plane. O-CU-UP O-RAN Central Unit – User Plane O-DU O-RAN Distributed Unit XR Extended Reality

# 4 General Concept

## 4.1 The convergence of communication and computing in current industry landscape
The past decades witnessed the convergence of communication and computing trends in mobile network. Great efforts were made and good momentum were achieved. C-RAN featured by centralization, cooperative, clean and cloud were first proposed in 2009, which depicts the vision of software based virtualized RAN [i.1]. The concept of Network Function Virtualization (NFV) was initiated from 2012. It introduced the information technology (IT) to enable the network transformation from the traditional physical hardware network into a new software based virtualized network edge computing (MEC), which enables compute-intensive applications for mobile devices and access to cloud computing service at the edge of communication networks, had attracted great attention [i.3]. The virtualized/cloudification RAN infrastructure can server as perfect edge computing platform. Thanks to the well- developed IT tools/frameworks, such as the containers, kubernets, the general-purpose hardware infrastructure could be easily and dynamically shared by the RAN functionality and the edge applications, providing the converged capabilities of mobile communication and computing. Edge computing was also incorporated into 5G system in 3GPP since Release 15. However, the communication and computing services offered by the existing design, such as NFV and MEC, were designed separately and developed independently. To fulfill the gap, the coordination of computing and networking is proposed in the context of IMT-2020 and beyond, and provides network enhancements based on the functional architecture of IMT-2020, to achieve the computing and network joint optimization based on the awareness, control and management over computing resources [i.4] [i.5]. Besides the above, IETF initiated a new working group on computing aware traffic steering to study how the network edge can steer traffic between clients of a service and sites offering the services, considering the integrated network and compute resource status [i.10]. This chapter provides an overview of the related efforts in various standard developing organizations.

### 4.1.1 Network Function Virtualization (NFV) in ETSI
Network function virtualization is the one of the key pillars that accelerating the convergence of communication and computing in mobile networks. By adopting the cutting-edge IT technologies, the network functionalities are realized based on the general-purpose servers, which can be flexibly deployed on distributed cloud infrastructure. This revolutionized the way mobile communication networks are developed, deployed and operated. Series of NFV specifications are released by ETSI ISG NFV, from the concept, architecture, a set of interoperable implementation solutions, operational matters. Additional support for containerized VNFs and more cloud native deployment and automation are also specified in recent years. Regarding the further evolvement, the requirements from telecom service providers, including: 1) unified network management; 2) user of latest cloud-native IT, automation and Artificial Intelligence (AI) open source software; 3) multi-vendor interoperability and migration among different nodes, are being considered as the key drivers [i.3]. It is worth mentioning that the NFV work is more focusing on the network virtualization to offer the RAN services in IT manner with automation. It lays a good reference framework for RAN virtualization. But the dedicated requirements for RAN virtualization are not fully considered. This is further studied and specified in O-RAN. How computing services would be extended and how to provide the integrated communication and computing services based on the telecom cloud infrastructure for the both computing and communication intensive emerging services, such as metaverse, XR and AI, are not investigated.

### 4.1.2 Multi-Access Edge Computing (MEC) in ETSI
ETSI Industry Specifications Group (ISG) MEC defines the specifications relevant to the edge computing, where the specification is access agnostic and is not confined to mobile communications. ETSI ISG MEC specifies an open and standardized IT service environment that enables application to be deployed at the network edge close to edge user [i.4]. A common edge application enablement framework for multiple network technologies is developed with MEC service APIs. More specifically, network related service APIs are specified to provide added value to the edge application enabling the network aware service optimization. For example, radio network information (3GPP access), WLAN information, UE identity service APIs, V2X information service, etc., are specified. The MEC service APIs mostly focus on the how the MEC applications can be enabled and the orchestration and management of the MEC platform and the application. How the network would interact with the MEC functionalities and how the information required for network related service APIs can be obtained from the network is not fully investigated. To fill the gap, Y1 interfaces is introduced in O-RAN so that MEC can obtain the RAN analytics information via the Y1 interface [i.7]. However, the joint consideration of the edge service continuity and the communication service continuity, the unified orchestration and management of the mobile network and edge computing required for the operators are not yet investigated. In summary, MEC as another key pillar of the convergence of communication and computing, are now separately designed, deployed and operated on top of the mobile network. Thus, the dynamic coordination of the mobile network and application processing is not supported to ensure the end to end service QoS.

### 4.1.3 Edge Computing in 3GPP
3GPP edge computing work defines the 5G access specific interactions and interfaces as a complement part of the ETSI MEC work. The overall framework generally consists of five layers, i.e., application layer, edge enabler layer, edge hosting environment, edge management layer and 3GPP transport layer [i.8]. .3GPP develops specifications for the edge enabler layer, 3GPP transport layer, edge management layer, and some part of application layer (relevant to enabling of edge capabilities to the applications). In the transport layer, 5G supports to select/reselect user plane functions to steer/route traffic locally and connect to the local area data network in selected regions. It also supports Edge Application Server Discovery Function (EADSF), which enables the discovery of the IP address(es) of the EASs for the edge application [i.9]. Regarding the management layer, different business roles involved in edge computing and the mobile network, and their relationship are also discussed along with the edge computing management specification [i.10]. Generally, PLMN operator is responsible for the 3GPP transport layer and deployment of the 5G network functions, edge computing service provider (ECSP) is responsible for the deployment of edge data network that contain edge enabler client (EEC) in the UE and edge enabler server (EES), and application service provider (ASP) is responsible for the creation of edge application servers (EASs) and application clients (ACs). The management system framework for edge computing defined in 3GPP consists of the PLMN management system and the ECSP management system. The two systems can interact with ETSI Network Function Virtualization Management and Orchestration (MANO) to perform lifecycle management functions. The edge enabler layer provides edge capability related Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) for the application developers [i.8]. With the well-defined services and APIs, the application developers can locate and connect to the most suitable edge application server, and to explore the service optimization leveraging the potential network information provided by underlying 3GPP network. Similar to the MEC work in ETSI, the joint optimization of network and computing resources are not yet considered to guarantee the end-to-end service quality that depends on both the computing and communication process. 4.1.4 Coordination of computing and networking in IMT-2020 and beyond in ITU-T The requirements, framework and QoS assurance related requirement and framework for the coordination of computing and networking in IMT-2020 and beyond are studied in ITU-T [i.5] [i.6]. The coordination of computing and networking is defined as the coordination of utilization, control and management of computing, storage and networking resources. It provides the capability to jointly schedule the computing, storage and networking resources, and is expected to enhance the QoS support for IMT-2020 networks and beyond. The coordination of computing and networking is envisioned for the resource layer, control layer, service layer, and management and orchestration layer. The general requirements identified in the draft recommendations [i.5] includes: awareness of networking, computing and storage resources; joint scheduling of resources; unified management of resources; AI/ML integration; unified standard interfaces for resources; support resource transaction services so that the resource users can order computing services; energy saving and security and privacy related requirements. The high level QoS assurance mechanisms investigated for the coordination of computing and networking in IMT-2020 and beyond in [i.6] includes:
- Perception of computing and networking status
- Perception of service requirements
- Mapping among service, computing and network requirements
- Joint scheduling of computing and networking
- Unified management and orchestration of computing and networking

### 4.1.5 Computing aware traffic steering in IETF
IETF initiated computing aware traffic steering working group in Mar. 2023. The main motivation is to study how to integrate both network and compute conditions in the optimization function that informs the steering applied by the network edge nodes with the desire to operate that function on nodes within the service provider's network, logically separated from service operation. The main motivation is the performance experienced by clients will depend on both network metrics such as bandwidth and latency, and compute metrics such as processing, storage capabilities, and capacity. For some services, especially, the XR and autonomous vehicles assisted by the network, it is desired to optimize network edge node traffic steering based on the awareness of both the communication and computing related metrics. The use cases and requirements for the computing aware traffic steering are studied in [i.11]. Four typical use cases, namely, computing-aware AR/VR, computing-aware intelligent transportation, computing-aware digital twin and computing-aware SD-WAN are discussed considering a distributed computing scenario. The requirements to support computing aware traffic steering are also identified:
- Support dynamic and effective selection among multiple service instances
- Support agreement on metric representation of both the compute capability related metrics and network
metrics
- Support flexible use of network and computing metrics for service instance selection
- Support session and service continuity
- Preserve communication confidentiality.

## 4.2 Communication capabilities supported by O-RAN
O-RAN is committed to evolving radio access networks with its core principles being intelligence and openness. The overall O-RAN architecture is specified in [i.7], where the key elements including the service management and orchestration framework, O-RAN network functions and O-Cloud are described. In general, the O-RAN architecture supports the 4G and 5G RAN communication services. With the hierarchical RAN intelligent controllers, namely Non- RIC and Near-RT RIC introduced in O-RAN, various AI/ML empowered RAN optimization use cases are explored in efficiency.

## 4.3 Computing capabilities in O-RAN
Diversified 5G services call for new level of agility in RAN deployment and scaling. RAN cloudification emerges as a promising solution and offers new innovation paradigm. O-RAN architecture adopts the RAN cloudification design. O- Cloud is defined as a cloud computing platform comprising a collection of physical infrastructure nodes that meet O- RAN requirements to host the relevant O-RAN NFs (i.e., Near-RT RIC, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, and O-DU) [i.7]. O-Cloud platform hardware includes compute, network and storage components and may also include hardware accelerators for improving the computing efficiency by offloading the most computation-intensive or timing-intensive tasks in the radio protocol stack. O-Cloud platform software consists of cloud platform runtime, cloud platform management and virtual machine (VM)/container management and orchestration. The cloud platform runtime includes the hypervisor/container runtime, accelerator driver, network driver and precision time protocol to host the RAN functions. The cloud platform management is responsible for the life cycle management, high availability, fault management and configuration of the cloud infrastructure. The VM/container management and orchestration is typically implemented with OpenStack for VM deployments and Kubernetes (K8s) for container deployment. The cloud architecture and deployments scenarios for O-RAN virtualized RAN are described in [i.15]. The cloudification in O-RAN greatly improves the RAN deployment flexibility, and transforms O-RAN into a native and cost-effective edge computing platform. Thus, edge application services can be deployed on the existing O-Cloud infrastructure along with the O-RAN functions. This lays the foundation of “beyond communication” service provision, offering the opportunities for RAN to provide the integrated communication and computing services.

## 4.4 The convergence of communication and computing in O- RAN
The CCIN is a network which could provide not only traditional RAN services such as connection and mobility control but also applications services by leveraging the communication and computing resources in an integrated manner. The goal of CCIN is to provide the beyond-connection services and bring new values to operators. A CCIN network has the following features. 1. Sharable resources. Resources include not only the communication resources such as the radio bearers, the TTL, the frequency etc. but also those of computing resources including various hardware from CPU, GPU to switches, storage and so on. Thanks to the cloud technology, such resources could be scheduled and allocated for different usage, i.e. communication and computing on demand. For example, in the daytime, the computing power of the CPU should be used to process the radio stack for 5G coverage. While at night when the traffic volume drops, the CPU is then freed from the 5G computing and changed for AI model training. 2. Holistic orchestration of communication and computing resources. The resources of CCIN should be scheduled and orchestrated in a holistic way. The CCIN itself should be capable of scheduling and allocating the communication and computing resources for different workloads. In addition, the CCIN should also be able to expose such resources and status to external in collaboration with the other network functions, e.g. core networks. A global orchestrator should be aware of the resources, orchestrate them together with the functions and services in a holistic way to optimize the system performance, efficiency and/or user experience. 3. Integrated service provisioning. The CCIN could provide services externally and the services could be of different types. It could be in the very basic format of computing capability in the unit of Floating-point Operation Per Second (FLOP). It could be further provided in a more abstract yet user-sensible way. For example, the services could be the capability of training certain type of AI models with certain number of parameters. Eventually, such service provisioning would bring the beyond-connection value to operators.
> NOTE: If and how O-RAN addresses this topic of integrated service provisioning is for further study.
In essence, CCIN features the integration of communication and computing. There could be several levels of integration. On the first level, the computing functions simply co-locate with the communication functions on the same hardware platform, i.e. the COTS servers. There is little interaction in between except that the user-plane local break- out by means of User-plane Function (UPF) could be implemented for local processing. On the second level, interaction between the communication and application services is enabled to provide RAN and application mutually aware optimization. On this level, the interaction is mainly via an established interface or Application Program Interface (API). For the third and the last level of integration in CCIN, the communication and computing relate to each other in a symbiotic way, i.e, they are jointly scheduled in a real-time way, managed and orchestrated in a holistic manner. With the orchestrator, the computing resources could be scaled in and out in a much more dynamic way with smaller granularity as the workload changes with the applications than the second level.

# 5 Scenarios and Use Cases

## 5.1 Use Case 1: Multi aspect handover optimization

### 5.1.1 Background Information
Communication and Computing Integrated Networks enables the collaboration of communication network and computing. It is an approach of softening the boundaries between the cloud computing and networking, such that their resources can be utilized in the most efficient way. This allows the applications to leverage on such convergence of compute and network resources. Cloud based RAN solutions can play an important role in the Communication and Computing Integrated Networks with its potential to share some of its vacant computing resources as the edge computing platform. New age applications based on XR (see 3GPP TR 26.928 [i.12], clause 4.1.1), V2X (see 3GPP TR 38.885 [i.13]) can benefit from Communication and Computing Integrated Networks but they require application mobility in addition to posing stringent requirements on both communication and computing. New network architecture for Communication and Computing Integrated Networks needs to address these application requirements. The types of computing resources required for different applications can be diverse based on the nature of the applications. However, the computing resources available in different entities might be of different computing resource type than what is required for specific applications. It is also possible that capabilities of a computing resource type required for specific applications is different even if an entity supports required computing resource type. Computing resource types referred here could be but not limited to the support for Graphical Processing Unit, Neural Processing Unit, Deep Processing Unit, etc. An example illustration of the cloud based joint RAN + Computing entity used in Communication and Computing Integrated Networks (CCIN) is given below in the Figure 5.1.1-1.

### 5.1.2 Motivation
In a Communication and Computing Integrated Networks, the idea is to use the vacant computing resources from the cloud-based RAN (e.g., if the network load is low), to perform some edge computing related tasks so that cloud resources are used efficiently. In particular, leveraging the proximity of the cloud-based RAN entities to the end users/devices is a key factor to address low latency requirements of the tasks/applications. But in order to take advantage of this opportunity the following needs to be considered:
- If the vacant resources match the task requirements in terms of the type of the computing resource and related
capabilities.
- If the amount of vacant resources of required type/capability suffices the task requirements
- If the nodes are within the proximity required to support the continuity of the service and service latency
requirements of the applications. In the use case of UE handover especially in the scenario where the UE needs to run applications with high computing and low latency requirements such as XR based applications the above stated challenges are more prominent. Thus, in such use case it is desirable that system considers the aspects of computing capability and availability of cloud-based RAN entities while supporting the mobility of UE and applications in it. In particular, it is important to create the awareness in a cloud-based RAN entity of the information regarding the computing capability and availability of other cloud-based RAN entities in the proximity and use these multiple aspects as part of the UE handover decisions. Proximity here means that coverage area of the cells served by source cloud-based RAN entity has some overlap with the coverage area of the cells served by target cloud-based RAN entity.

### 5.1.3 Proposed Solution
In order to address aforementioned use case and related challenges it is proposed extend the Communication and Computing Integrated Networks framework. Such extensions comprise introduction of proximal computing table which stores the information on the compute capabilities of cloud-based RAN entities and its usage in UE handover decisions. This helps the handover of the UE to a target cloud-based RAN entity in the proximity with computing resource types of relevant capabilities and availability required for the applications in that UE. The proximal computing table can be of following types: 1. Proximal Computing Capability Table which is a neighbor relation table indicative of computing resource types and/or capability of compute resource types of the target cloud-based RAN entities in the proximity of the source cloud- based Radio entity. Examples for resource types referred here are GPU, NPU, DPU, AI accelerator, etc. Examples for the capability of resource types referred here are supported types of AI algorithms, supported number of Ray Tracing Cores, etc. 2. Proximal Computing Availability Table which is a neighbor relation table indicative of current availability of computing resource types of the target cloud-based RAN entities in the proximity of the source cloud-based RAN entity. This may comprise a predicted availability of the computing resource types for predetermined time periods. Proposed solution consists of rApp, SMO/Non-RT RIC Framework, Near-RT RIC, E2 nodes and O-Cloud. rApp retrieves CM data, PM data, location data of different cloud-based RAN entities and capability of computing resource types, load/availability of computing resource types in different cloud-based RAN entities. rApp derives Proximal Computing Capability Table for each cloud-based RAN entity based on the proximity analysis of different cloud-based RAN entities in the neighborhood and the capability analysis of computing resource types in different cloud-based RAN entities within the proximity. Proximity analysis uses different data including but not limited to PM data and location data. Similarly, rApp derives Proximal Computing Availability table for a cloud-based RAN entity based on the load/availability analysis of the computing resource types in different target entities in the corresponding Proximal Computing Capability table. rApp may rely on AI/ML model-based load/availability pattern analysis of the computing resource types, this includes prediction of available vacant resources at specific time window in a specific day e.g., during which time window it is expected to have the most vacant resources, with which confidence that can be determined and exposed etc. rApp creates different O1 based configurations including policies for multi-aspect handover optimization based on the Proximal Computing Capability Table and Availability Table at one or more near-RT RIC instances. Near-RT RIC will then use E2 control or E2 policy to ensure the UE handover to most optimum target cloud-based Radio entity.

### 5.1.4 Benefits of O-RAN Architecture
O-RAN architecture allows rApp based use cases to build intelligence based on both traditional RAN network data available over O1 interface as well as cloud-based computing capabilitiy data available over O2 interface. In addition, E2 control or E2 policies facilitates the finer control of UE level handover decisions in E2 nodes. In summary, O-RAN architecture provides necessary ingredients to facilitate multi aspect handover optimization.

## 5.2 Use Case 2: Radio Edge Computing Resource Information
Exposure

### 5.2.1 Background Information
AI/ML processing for network intelligence and automation evolution, as well as new 5G edge applications supporting e.g., immersive Virtual Reality (VR), autonomous driving, and intelligent internet of things (IoT), etc. put an unprecedented demand on the edge computing resources. The O-Cloud architecture of O-RAN and the spatial and temporal tidal effects of RAN communication services offer great opportunities for sharing underutilized computing resources in the RAN infrastructure. This helps to improve the resource utilization efficiency and reduce operators’ investment on the edge computing infrastructure.

### 5.2.2 Motivation
The main objective is to provide radio edge computing resource information exposure service based on O-RAN architecture and its open interface. In O-RAN, SMO is a great candidate to provide radio edge computing resource information exposure service to the service consumers for perceiving unused computing resources in the O-Cloud infrastructure. The service consumers might be other orchestrators, e.g., central cloud orchestrator, edge cloud orchestrator, radio edge cloud orchestrator, device edge cloud orchestrator etc. The orchestrators could request computing resource information for multi-cloud collaboration, such as task migration between multiple clouds or edge intelligence. The service consumers could also be other 3rd applications, e.g., vertical customers, VR consumers etc., which could request computing resource information for application deployment using shared computing resources in a secured way.

### 5.2.3 Proposed Solution
Entities/resources involved in the use case: 1) SMO: a) Support collect and analysis computing related resources from O-Cloud. b) Support provide radio edge computing resource information service, send the radio computing information for managed O-Cloud related computing resources to the service consumer, e.g., Orchestrator/Application Server. 2) O-Cloud: a) Support computing related inventory and updated resources report with required granularity to SMO over O2 interface. 3) Radio Edge Computing Resource Information Exposure Service Consumer: a) Request/subscribe radio edge computing resource information from SMO. b) The service consumer might be Orchestrator/Application Server. The whole procedure is presented in Table 5.2.3-1, illustrated by Figure. 5.2.3-1. Use Case Step Description of the Step Goal Radio Edge Computing Resource Information Exposure Actors and Roles SMO, O-Cloud, orchestrator/application server
- All relevant functions and components are instantiated.
Assumptions
- O2 interface connectivity is established with SMO.
- SMO and O-Cloud are instantiated with O2 interface connectivity being established
Pre-conditions between them. Editor’s Note: Security related procedure is FFS. Orchestrators or application servers want to request/subscribe Radio Edge Computing Begins when Resource information. Orchestrators or application servers, e.g., RAN service computing center, send Radio Edge Step 1 (M) Computing Resource information request to SMO for initial or updated computing resource information. SMO requests or subscribes the measurement data from O-Cloud, and receives computing Step 2 (M) related resources information from O-Cloud through response or periodic notifications. Alternatively, SMO could use AI/ML or other methods to perform computing related resource Step 3 (O) data statistics and analysis. SMO send Radio Edge Computing Resource information response, including the RAN side Step 4 (M) computing related information managed by SMO. Ends when Orchestrators or application servers get the response. Post Conditions N/A Box “Service Consumer” #lightcyan Box “Service Management and Orchestration” #gold Box “O-Cloud Platform” #lightseagreen Required data: Computing related resource data are expected to be retrieved by SMO from O-Cloud for radio computing related data statistics, analysis and information exposure, including total, allocated, reserved, and available: 1) CPU number for O-Cloud, cluster, or node 2) vCPU number for O-Cloud, cluster, or node Exposed data: 1) Radio Edge Computing Resource information exposed by SMO includes but is not limited to, 2) Total capacity of computing or number of computing resources 3) Allocated capacity of computing or number of computing resources 4) Reserved capacity of computing or number of computing resources 5) Available capacity of computing or number of computing resources 6) Other computing related information a) Computing resource identifier, e.g., Cloud identifier, Node identifier b) Computing resource location, c) vCPU number, etc.

### 5.2.4 Benefits of O-RAN Architecture
The proposed solution supports an effective way to expose the radio edge computing resource information to the service consumer, such as other orchestrators or applications. It requires features provided by the O-RAN architecture to collect the radio computing related data, alternatively supports statistics, analysis, and expose by SMO.

## 5.3 Use Case 3: O-RAN and Mobile Devices collaborative
AI/ML inference

### 5.3.1 Background Information
Integrated artificial intelligence (AI) and communication has been identified as crucial elements for IMT-2030 by ITU- R [i.16]. AI/ML-based applications are increasingly demanding in terms of computation, memory, and power consumption. However, mobile devices typically have limited energy, computing capability, and memory resources, making it challenging to run complete AI/ML inference. There is a growing need to offload AI/ML inference from mobile devices to the central cloud or edge computing platform to support the mobile AI/ML inference application through collaborative computing. For example, [i.17] and [i.18] give a manufacturing scenario that utilizes AI/ML technologies for analyzing image data in a product defect detection application. The product's image is initially captured by a sensor such as a camera and then it can be transmitted to the edge server equipped with an AI/ML model for identifying and classifying the potential defects in the product by analyzing the image data. Subsequently, the inference result is communicated to the console's actuator (e.g. a classifier), which directs the product to different processes based on the result. The AI/ML model can also be split between the mobile devices and the edge computing platform considering the radio transmission status and the mobile devices’ computing capabilities. In several use cases of split AI/ML operation between AI/ML endpoints studied in 3GPP TR22.874 [i.19], the AI/ML endpoints at the end user side can be mobile devices, robotics, cameras, etc., and the AI/ML endpoints on the network side can be AI/ML edge servers, cloud servers, application servers, etc. When the performance of the AI/ML inference task decreases (e.g., the inference end-to-end latency increases and/or the inference accuracy decreases), service experience downgrades, or mobile device's computing capability cannot support current AI/ML inference computation, the AI/ML model split point between the AI/ML endpoints and the AI/ML exit point can be dynamically optimized by adjusting the computing workload of the AI/ML endpoints and the communication volume between AI/ML endpoints to ensure service quality. Taking ResNet18 as an example, Figure 5.3.1-1 shows the framework of the AI/ML model [i.20] and Table 5.3.1-1 shows data size of the intermediate outcomes and computation load for the split point inference of the ResNet18 model. The data size of AI/ML model intermediate outcomes need to be transmitted from mobile device to network side, computation load offloaded as well as the accuracy of the various AI/ML exit point are be summarized in the following table. Computation Accuracy of Layer ID Type Data size (bit) load (FLOPs) exit point conv1 25690112 118013952 maxpool 6422528 7225344 conv2-1 6422528 115605504 conv2-2 6422528 115605504 conv2-3 6422528 115605504 (Exit1) conv2-4 6422528 115605504 63.91% conv3-1 3211264 57802752 conv3-2 3211264 115605504 conv3-3 3211264 115605504 (Exit2) conv3-4 3211264 115605504 65.36% conv4-1 1605632 57802752 conv4-2 1605632 115605504 conv4-3 1605632 115605504 (Exit3) conv4-4 1605632 115605504 67.64% conv5-1 802816 57802752 conv5-2 802816 115605504 conv5-3 802816 115605504 conv5-4 802816 115605504 avg pool 16384 1229312 (Exit4) fc 32000 1023000 68.96%

### 5.3.2 Motivation
The performance of the application AI/ML inference can be evaluated by two primary metrics: end-to-end application AI/ML inference latency and inference accuracy. The end-to-end latency in collaborative AI inference involving mobile devices and cloud/edge server generally comprises four key components: the inference computation latency on the mobile device, the transmission latency for AI/ML model intermediate outcomes from the mobile devices to the network, the inference computing latency within the edge/cloud server, and the transmission latency for the inference outcomes from the network to the mobile device. Figure 5.3.2-1 illustrates the end-to-end inference latency for collaborative AI inference between mobile devices and edge/cloud server, with the total inference latency represented as the sum of T1, T2, T3, and T4. The end-to-end latency of collaborative AI/ML inference is subject to multiple determinants. Latency T1 is influenced by both the complexity of the AI/ML model deployed on the mobile device and the device's computing capability. It is worth noting that the AI/ML model inference accuracy usually increases with the AI/ML model complexity. Latency T2 depends on the data size of the AI/ML model intermediate outputs, the radio interface and backhaul connection conditions. Latency T3 is contingent upon the complexity of the AI/ML model deployed on the edge/cloud server and the computing capability of the server. Meanwhile, latency T4 hinges on the data size of the inference result, the radio interface and backhaul connection conditions. The above analysis of the impact on latency T1~T4 indicates that the end-to-end latency of collaborative AI inference highly depends on both the communication and computational capabilities of the mobile device and the network. To assure the end-to-end collaborative AI inference performance, the joint communication and computing resources optimization is desired. The objective of this use case is to investigate how O-RAN architecture could be leveraged to support the collaborative AI/ML inference between the mobile device and the network.

### 5.3.3 Proposed Solution #1
O-RAN could provide both the edge computing capabilities and the communication assurance for the collaborative AI inference scenarios. This also helps to facilitate the joint communication and computing resource optimization to ensure the end-to-end performance. Firstly, in O-RAN system, O-Cloud infrastructure can provide high-quality computing resources for mobile device and network AI/ML collaborative inference. Idle O-Cloud resources can be leveraged to the deploy the AI/ML application. Compared with the collaborative AI inference between mobile device and central cloud server, AI/ML collaborative inference between mobile devices and O-Cloud is beneficial for reducing the transmission latency of AI/ML model intermediate outcomes and inference result. This also helps to potentially reduce the cost required for additional edge/cloud server deployment. To efficiently utilize the O-Cloud computing capabilities for the edge AI/ML applications, SMO could serve as an intermediary interface that translates external communication and computing requests into O-RAN internal operations. In detail, SMO could expose the computing services or integrated communication and computing services offered by O-RAN to the external entities or consumers so that external customers are able to convey their communication requirements and computing requirements. For example, in the AI/ML inference request, requirements such as computing resource requirements for AI/ML applications, end-to-end inference latency and accuracy requirements, service duration, and the number of served mobile devices, etc., could be provided to the SMO. With the service request input, SMO can orchestrate communication and computing resources to fulfill the service requirements. To enable the deployment of the edge applications (e.g, AI/ML application) on the O- Cloud from the external request, a new edge application orchestrator, i.e., RAN Edge Application Orchestrator (REAO), responsible for the edge application life cycle management, can be introduced in SMO or the existing mechanism could be reused. It can further consume the O-Cloud Deployment Management Service (DMS) to execute the deployment operation on O-Cloud. Secondly, Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC can further enable the intelligent service assurance and network performance improvement. These capabilities can be applied to collaborative AI inference, facilitating the joint communication and computing resources optimization. For example, Non-RT RIC may predict the trajectory of mobile devices, then proactively optimize communication resources at the target BS and assist to deploy AI/ML applications in advance at the target O-Cloud, etc. Near-RT RIC is capable to gather detailed information at both the UE level and the cell level. With these data and the policies received from Non-RT RIC, Near-RT RIC can help to assure the communication performance in near real-time for AI/ML inference application. Furthermore, O-RAN can provide RAN information including communication and computing information to network side AI/ML endpoints (which could be deployed at O-Cloud, edge or cloud servers). For example, Near-RT RIC can expose mobile device throughput, network congestion condition, radio interface latency, available computing resources, etc via Y1 interface. This information can be used by the application to optimize the AI/ML model split and exit decisions in adaptation to the network connection conditions and computing status (e.g., mobile devices’ computing capabilities, power status, etc.). The optimized decision from application may be further notified to mobile devices and SMO and enforced by them. inspection, in the production line scenario.

### 5.3.4 Proposed Solution #2
This solution aims to incorporate comprehensive management of CCIN consumers' AI/ML inference applications, specifically regarding the life-cycle management of collaborative AI/ML inference tasks by SMO. To enable O-RAN to dynamically select an AI/ML model partitioning and exit point that is suitable for the current communication and computing resource condition, and to deploy the selected AI/ML model, CCIN consumers could provide SMO with a set of certain types of AI/ML models at possible partitioning and exit points. This allows the SMO to ascertain the uplink bandwidth and computing resource requirements of the AI/ML models within the set, thereby enabling the selection of partitioning of AI/ML models based on deployment strategies generated by the Non-RT RIC. Additionally, CCIN consumers could provide performance requirements for the AI/ML collaborative inference task, such as end-to-end latency of AI/ML inference, the area required to be covered, etc. This enables the Non-RT RIC to generate AI/ML model deployment strategies that comply with these performance metrics based on the status of communication and computing resources. Since mobile device and O-Cloud AI/ML collaborative inference involves not only adjustments to the AI/ML models deployed on the O-Cloud side but also adjustments on the mobile device side, the AI/ML models deployed on mobile device are always intended to compute collaboratively with those on O-Cloud. If the O-Cloud deploys AI/ML inference model from the (n+1)th layer to the output layer, then the mobile device side needs to deploy the AI/ML model for layers 1 to (n). Consequently, O-RAN needs to communicate the decision on the O-Cloud side AI/ML model selection to CCIN consumers, enabling them to inform the mobile device side about the AI/ML model that need to be deployed. mobile device and O-Cloud. Herein, CCIN consumers notify the SMO of the AI/ML models (For instance, a set of AI/ML models that categorized with different AI/ML model partitioning and exit points.) and the performance requirements for the mobile device and O-Cloud AI/ML collaborative inference (such as end-to-end latency of AI/ML inference, the area desired to be covered, etc.) through the consumption of CCIN service. The Non-RT RIC, based on current communication and computational resources, generates AI/ML model deployment strategyy and notifies the CCIN consumers. CCIN consumers then complete the deployment of AI/ML model on the mobile device side, while the SMO (for example, REAO within the SMO that deploys edge applications) completes the deployment of AI/ML model on O-Cloud. By monitoring of the AI/ML collaborative computing task, the Non-RT RIC can collect the communication status of the mobile device from the Near-RT RIC and generate AI/ML model adjustment strategy based on the current communication and computing status of the mobile device and the O-Cloud. The AI/ML model adjustment strategies are also communicated to CCIN consumers to update the AI/ML model on the mobile device side.

### 5.3.5 Benefits of O-RAN Architecture
The O-RAN system presents several advantages in the collaborative AI/ML inference scenario. First, the idle computing resources of O-Cloud can be shared with AI/ML inference applications. Furthermore, Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC empowers joint communication and computing resources optimization to ensure the collaborative AI/ML inference end-to-end latency and accuracy performance.

## 5.4 Use Case 4: XR rendering collaboration

### 5.4.1 Background Information
As a disruptive technology that brings new interactive experience, eXtended Reality (XR) has attracted considerable attention from content providers, mobile network operators, vertical industry customers, and so on. By design, a unique feature of XR is a new device form factor replacing or complementing handheld smartphones with wearable head- mounted displays or smart glasses. New devices (i.e., glasses or head mounted displays) impose strict requirements on user equipment (UE) power consumption, performance, and heat dissipation. Consequently, XR devices cannot do all the computations (i.e., Figure 5.4.1-1(1)) but require assistance from other nodes [i.21]. XR applications often require high-quality visuals and real-time interactions, which can be demanding in terms of latency and bandwidth requirements. Figure 5.4.1-1 illustrates the collaboration between different types of computing nodes and XR devices, where blue lines represent communication latency and orange lines represent the processing in computing nodes. On the one hand, RAN computing, brings rendering and computing service closer to users, allowing for ultra-low communication latency and reliability assurance for XR applications. On the other hand, RAN computing capability is weaker than cloud computing, which may cause the larger computing delay [i.22]. In order to provide users with immersive experience and ensure real-time interaction, the delay of interaction must be small enough, which puts forward new requirements for both radio network and computing resources. 3GPP TR 38.838 [i.23] defines the evaluation methodology for XR studies in Release-17, including the modeling of XR applications, simulation scenarios, traffic models, KPIs, and simulation parameters. 3GPP TR 22.261 [i.24] defines the Cloud/Edge/Split Rendering as an additional high data rate and low latency service and provides corresponding requirements on the 5G system. In addition to the conversational service category, Interactive (Streaming), Passive Streaming, Download, and Split Compute/Rendering are identified as new delivery categories in 3GPP TR 26.928 necessary modifications to 5G system architecture to enhance Edge Computing. Specifically, this study is investigating mechanisms to discover connectivity to available Edge Computing resources (e.g. using DNS), mobility improvements for both UE consuming Edge Computing services and for Edge Application Servers, and for network capability exposure towards the Edge Application Server. In addition, in 3GPP TR 23.758 [i.27] and 3GPP TS 23.558 [i.28] a new set of application layer interfaces for Edge Computing are identified that may potentially be useful for integration of Edge Computing. Specifically, the interfaces will enable application-layer discovery of Edge Application Servers, capability exposure towards the Edge Application Server, and procedures for onboarding, registration, and lifecycle management of Edge Applications.

### 5.4.2 Motivation
collects holographic information such as the user’s geographic location, orientation, manipulation, and five-senses through sensors. With the help of a high-speed and stable radio network, the information is transmitted to the RAN edge computing platform and the cloud through the uplink. Then, the RAN edge or cloud rendering server invokes computing resources to render the screen in real time, and the processed holographic information will be transmitted to the user’s terminal device through the downlink after being encoded and compressed. Finally, the terminal device restores the above information to the user. However, there are two major limitations with existing computation offloading approaches. Firstly, there is a lack of alignment between communication and computing decisions. Although computing is brought closer to the RAN, the existing architecture still manages communication and computing separately, resulting in sub- optimal performance. 3GPP TR 22.261 [i.22] defines motion-to-photon latency in the range of 7ms to 15ms while maintaining the required resolution of up to 8k giving user data rate of up to 1Gbit/s. Assuming the service requirements for motion-to-photon latency is 10ms, three RAN computing nodes with different bandwidth load and computing load can be chosen as the server, as shown in Figure 5.4.2-2. If choosing the computing node based on the best computing delay it will be the node 1, the E2E delay is 13ms. If choosing the computing node based on the best communication latency it will be the node 2, the E2E delay is 14ms. If choosing the computing node based on both of the status it will be the node 3, the E2E delay is 10ms and meets the service requirements. To ensure E2E delay without resource wastage of both radio network and computing resources, it is essential to align the decisions of communication and computing. Secondly, there is a lack of united orchestration among multiple users in adapting to resource-limited edge environments. An adaptive design focusing on a single-user offloading pipeline can be duplicated for multiple users, but this can lead to poor resource efficiency. Figure 5.4.2-3 shows the situation that XR devices are associated with the closest BS. Without united orchestration among multiple users, some RAN nodes may become overloaded while others are underutilized, resulting in inefficient resource allocation. To address this issue, it is necessary to coordinate the decisions of multiple users holistically.
> NOTE: Without specification, the "resource" mentioned above refers to the available communication and
computing capabilities within RAN. edge environments Therefore, a joint design approach is required for computing node selection, computing resource allocation, and radio resource optimization. Leveraging modern AI technologies, computational tasks or resources can be automatically scheduled and orchestrated along with the optimization of communication resources. This integrated approach enables more efficient utilization of computing resources, thereby reducing wastage in redundant hardware capital expenditures (CAPEX) and operating expenses (OPEX).

### 5.4.3 Proposed Solution
As shown in Figure 5.4.3-1, XR rendering collaboration over SMO consists of the following steps: 0) Application awareness: External consumer collects the XR service requirements and application status from the XR devices and XR edge applications. 1) Capability exposure: communication and computing capabilities within RAN are exposed by SMO (1a) or via Y1 (1b) interface to external consumer. For example, levels of E2E delay can be provided for XR rendering tasks. 2) Analysis and decision for service request: external consumer analyzes the XR service requirements and the capabilities within RAN, and then determines the service request for capabilities in O-RAN. 3) Service request: external consumer requests communication and computing service in O-RAN. 4) Optimization and decision analysis: potentially utilize AI/ML models to analyze the service request and determine the resource demand and policy for XR rendering assurance in O-RAN. 5) Execution: 5a) Deploy or scale the cloud resources of E2 nodes (i.e., O-CU, O-DU) via O2 interface. 5b) Reconfigure the E2 nodes via the O1 interface to guarantee radio transmission for XR rendering (e.g., cell-level spectrum allocation). 5c) Create A1 policy for XR rendering assurance. 5d) Deploy or scale the cloud resources of XR edge applications on the O-Cloud platform. 5e) (Out of O-RAN scope) Deploy XR applications on UE or notify UE the default XR edge application and/or the default communication node. NOTE1: Step 5a. to 5d. can be freely combined or skipped to guarantee the XR rendering assurance, depending on the specific requirements of the XR service. NOTE2: External consumers could be global orchestrator or the edge enabler server in 3GPP [i.28].

### 5.4.4 Benefits of O-RAN Architecture
O-Cloud in O-RAN provides the necessary computing, storage, and communication resources to host and execute the virtualized functions and applications required for O-RAN operations. O-Cloud can extend its capabilities to the network edge, reducing latency and improves the performance of XR applications by processing data closer to the source. O-RAN’s open interfaces and AI/ML based architecture will enable the challenging mechanisms of XR rendering collaboration to be implemented. For example, Near-RT RIC collects rich data on radio conditions and computing capabilities in RAN, as well as information on XR applications. By training AI models with these data, the performance of XR rendering collaboration tasks can be significantly enhanced with jointly optimizing computing node selection, computing resource allocation and radio resource optimization. The purpose of this use case is to perform distributed rendering of co-orchestration of communication resources and computing resources in O-RAN to improve the experience of XR users.

## 5.5 Use Case 5: Computing Resource Scheduling in V2X
Communications

### 5.5.1 Background Information
It is expected that there will be approximately 8 million autonomous or semi-autonomous vehicles on the road by 2025 Intelligent Traffic System and autonomous vehicles by facilitating the exchange of crucial information among vehicles, infrastructure, and pedestrians. This exchange encompasses critical data, including real-time updates on traffic conditions, impending road hazards, and precise speed limits, to improve decision-making and prevent accidents. Within the realm of V2X communications, the intersection is one of the most challenging scenarios. The various ways of transportation (e.g. vehicles, pedestrians) coupled with densely constructed buildings contributes to the complexity of traffic conditions, resulting in a large amount of data gathered from diverse sources for comprehensive sensing and collision avoidance. As shown in Figure 5.5.1-1, Vehicle 1 travels straight through the intersection, while Vehicle 2 maintains a safe distance behind Vehicle 1, intending to turn left. During the drive, there are several risks.
- Vehicle 1 risks colliding with Vehicle 3.
- Vehicle 1 or Vehicle 3 risks colliding with the pedestrian 2 (if he suddenly rushes from behind Building 2 and
turns left). However, either Vehicle 1 and Vehicle 3 cannot sense the pedestrian timely due to the blocking by Building 2.
- Vehicle 2 risks colliding with other vehicles and pedestrian (e,g., Vehicle 3 and pedestrian 1). Due to the
blocking by Vehicle 1 and Building 1, Vehicle 2 is unable to accurately sense traffic conditions ahead and to the left in real-time and has to obtain information by exchanging information with other vehicles or infrastructures, which may result in high latency and high risk of collision. In collision warning scenarios, the latency requirement for data collection and computing are in few milliseconds (e.g., the maximum end-to-end latency for cooperative collision avoidance in the advanced driving scenario is 10ms.) [i.30], so that the results and warns can be fed back to vehicles and pedestrians in timely manner. To fulfill the strict latency demand, it is essential to process these tasks in one or several optimal computing nodes, e.g., the central cloud, edge cloud, radio edge cloud, device edge cloud etc. Since the end-to-end latency is limited by the computing latency and network latency, the optimal offloading choice cannot be found by either optimize the network or computing resource. Hence, joint optimization of network and computing resource is needed. For example, the road status sensing data from Vehicle 1, Vehicle 3 and Pedestrian 2 must be communicated and processed and the result fed back within milliseconds to avoid the collision between them. To reduce network latency, it is desirable to process the data locally in vehicles. However, the computing resources of vehicles may be limited, which may not satisfy the task requirements in terms of computing resources and capabilities and could also lead to high computing latency. Therefore, it may be desired to offload all or part of the data processing to the best edge server (e.g., the server completes data processing with the lowest latency, lowest energy consumption.) through joint optimization of network and computing resources. However, since the task requirements on computing resources (e.g., the required type of computing resources) are diverse and the availability of computing resources is dynamic, it is of great important to enable joint communication and computing resources optimization. What is worse, there are other data to be processed, such as navigation requests from other vehicles, requests for entertainment-related services from passengers, etc., which also consume limited computing and communication resources and increase the difficulties.

### 5.5.2 Motivation
The main objective is to enable joint communication and computing resources optimization for V2X communications. In O-RAN, the global information on communication and computing resources is available over O1 and O2 interface, thus facilitating the joint communication and computing resources optimization. With the above global information, resource scheduling policies for both communication and computing can be developed in Non-RT RIC (e.g., policies in terms of CPU frequency, bandwidth and power, etc.), and communication optimization policies can be enforced by Near-RT RIC based on the near real-time UE level information (e.g., real-time link quality) . In addition, the vacant computing resources in O-Cloud can provide edge computing services in case of low network load, which further facilitates the low-latency computing in V2X communications.

### 5.5.3 Proposed Solution
O-RAN can provide edge computing capabilities and communication assurance for computing in V2X. The vacant O- Cloud resources and collaboration between Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC facilitate on-demand resource allocation adjustments and joint optimization of communication and computing resource scheduling to ensure end-to-end performance. Fig. 5.5.3-1 illustrates how O-RAN can facilitate computing in V2X communications, where the O-Cloud is used as the computing entity in O-RAN. First, SMO retrieves data from Near-RT RIC, E2 nodes, O-Cloud, and/or edge/cloud servers to get the communication and computing resources information, which mainly includes but is not limited to information about available computing resources (e.g., resource type, CPU/GPU frequency and storage) and communication resources (e.g., network load, available bandwidth, link quality). The mentioned information of O-Cloud can be retrieved over the O2 interface, while the communication resource information can be obtained via the O1 interface from O-CU and O-DU. Also, the related information of external edge/cloud servers can be retrieved through the information exposure between external edge/cloud servers and SMO. Next, SMO exposes the computing services or integrated communication computing services provided by O-RAN to external entities, e.g., vehicles, pedestrians and other third-party consumers, so that external customers can send their service requests. The service request information can include but is not limited to data size, required computing resource type, latency deadline of the contained tasks.
> NOTE: The security related consideration is for further study.
Then, Non-RT RIC trains the AI model to generate policies based on task requirements and available computing and communication resources. The policies mainly include but are not limited to task offloading strategies and/or the joint resource allocation/adjustment strategies of O-CUs/DUs (e.g. offload tasks to one of the O-DUs and allocate CPU frequency and bandwidth to these tasks based on non-real-time information), where the communication resources allocation/adjustment strategies can be further enforced and sent from Near-RT RIC to O-CUs/DUs (e.g., RAN optimization polices based on near real-time link quality).

### 5.5.4 Benefits of O-RAN Architecture
The O-RAN system presents several advantages in joint communication and computing resources optimization for V2X scenarios with a large amount of data to be processed in low latency. The vacant O-Cloud-based computing resources can be shared with edge applications. In addition, the Non-RT RIC can perform joint communication and computing resources optimization, and Near-RT RIC facilitates the RAN behaviour optimization based on the information obtained through E2 interface. In summary, O-RAN architecture provides necessary ingredients to facilitate computing for V2X scenarios.

## 5.6 Use case 6: Exposure of performance information to assist
computing resource scheduling

### 5.6.1 Background Information
Computing task performance information are used to monitor the loading conditions of virtual compute resources of computing tasks that include computing task memory usage, CPU occupancy rate, data throughput etc... ETSI NFV defines the use case of performance managements and performance metrics. Monitoring parameters associated with the compute related measurements and of interest for a VNF can be declared in the VNFD (see ETSI GS NFV-IFA 011 [i.35]). The measurements can be used as the triggers to the scale VNF operation (see clause 7.2.4 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 008 [i.36]. The Kubernetes (K8s) API server provides supervision data about the Kubernetes objects, such as pods. processes and components use this information to track whether pods are being launched and maintained as expected. These cluster state metrics can also provide a high-level view of cluster and its state.

### 5.6.2 Motivation
In CCIN, computing resource orchestrator should continuously supervising the performance of running computing tasks. Reporting of running computing tasks performance information will assist the computing resource orchestrator to make decision on deploying a computing task to a new cloud node or triggering to scale a computing task. And this can also help the computing resource orchestrator to measure computing task’s actual resource usage, which helps for evaluating the adequacy of a candidate cloud node to execute the computing task during mobility.

### 5.6.3 Proposed Solution

#### 5.6.3.1 Performance information reporting triggers redeployment of a computing task
When a VNF/App is successfully deployed on an O-Cloud node, SMO collects the performance information of this VNF/App and computing resource information from Cloud Nodes distributed in various geographical locations on the O-Cloud through the O1 or O2 interface. If current O-Cloud node’s performance does not meet the requirements of the VNF/App, computing resource orchestrator may trigger SMO to redeploy the VNF/App via the O2 interface. As shown in Figure 5.6.3.1-1, Node1 and Node2 provide computing resource at the edge cloud for UEs, and the coverage scope of cell shows as green in the figure. Through performance information reporting, when the orchestrators find that Node1 does not meet the computing resource requirements, the network may configure Node2 to serve the UE. Entities/resources involved in the use case: 1) SMO: a) Support for collecting and analysing VNF/App performance information from O-Cloud. b) Support for redeployment or scale-in/scale-out VNF/App via O2. 2) O-Cloud: a) Support for computing related inventory and updated VNF/App performance information with required granularity to SMO over O2 interface. b) Support for deploying of a VNF/App or scaling a VNF/App 3) Orchestrator/Application Server: a) Request/subscribe VNF/App performance/computing information from SMO. b) Response for deploy/scale VNF/App on O-Cloud. The whole procedure is presented in Table 5.6.3.1-1, illustrated by Figure. 5.6.3.1-2. Use Case Step Description of the Step Goal Performance information reporting assist redeployment of a computing task Actors and Roles SMO, O-Cloud, orchestrators from other clouds/application server All relevant functions and components are instantiated. Assumptions O2 interface connectivity is established with SMO. SMO and O-Cloud are instantiated with O2 interface connectivity being established between Pre-conditions them. Orchestrators external to the O-Cloud want to subscribe VNFs/Apps performance information Begins when of O-Cloud. Orchestrators external to the O-Cloud send VNFs/Apps performance information subscription Step 1 (M) to SMO. Step 2 (M) SMO subscribe VNFs/Apps performance information from O-Cloud Nodes. SMO response for VNFs/Apps performance information subscription to orchestrators external Step 3 (M) to the O-Cloud. SMO collect VNF/App performance information via O2/O1 interface and send the notification Step 4 (L) to indicate VNF/App performance information to orchestrators external to the O-Cloud. Performance can not fulfill the requirement, orchestrators external to the O-Cloud requests Step 5 (M) SMO to redeploy the VNF/App or App to cloud node2. SMO deploy VNF/App on node2 and VNF/App route switch from node1 to node2. Step 6 (L) SMO terminate VNF/App on node1. SMO response of redeployment of VNF/App success to orchestrators form other clouds or Step 7 (M) application servers. Ends when Orchestrators form other clouds or application servers get the response. Post Conditions N/A Box “Orchestrator” #lightcyan Box SMO #gold Box O_Cloud Node #lightseagreen periodic or event trigger periodic or event trigger end Cloud Node == 2.4.2.1 else K8s（Kubernetes） O2DMS Kubernetes IF 3.1.2 end end else K8s（Kubernetes） end end Required data： Some computing task performance information that proposed to be exposed is list as below: 1) K8s
- K8S pod status:
- Pending
- Running
- Succussed
- Failed
- unknown
- K8S Node, Pod, containers usage:
- Memory requests: Total memory requests (bytes) of a pod
- Memory limits Total memory limits (bytes) of a pod
- Allocatable memory Total allocatable memory (bytes) of the node
- Memory utilization Total memory in use on a node or pod
- CPU requests Total CPU requests (cores) of a pod
- CPU limits Total CPU limits (cores) of a pod
- Allocatable CPU total allocatable CPU (cores) of the node
- CPU utilization total CPU in use on a node or pod
- Disk utilization total disk space used on a node
2) ETSI
- ETSI VNF performance:
- Average virtual CPU usage
- Average virtual memory usage
- Average virtual disk usage
- Input data size (byte)
- Output data size (byte)
- Number of input packets
- Number of output packets

#### 5.6.3.2 Performance information reporting triggers to scale a computing task
The orchestrators external to the O-Cloud who responsible for computing resource orchestration can also be triggered to perform Scale-In and Scale-Out by performance information reporting so as to make full use of computing resources. The whole procedure is presented in Table 5.6.3.2-1, illustrated by Figure. 5.6.3.2-1. Use Case Step Description of the Step Goal Performance information reporting assist scale-in/scale-out of a computing task Actors and Roles SMO, O-Cloud, orchestrators from other clouds/application server
- All relevant functions and components are instantiated.
Assumptions
- O2 interface connectivity is established with SMO.
- SMO and O-Cloud are instantiated with O2 interface connectivity being established
Pre-conditions between them. Orchestrators form other clouds or application servers send subscribe VNFs/Apps Begins when performance information of O-Cloud. Orchestrators external to the O-Cloud send VNFs/Apps performance information subscription Step 1 (M) to SMO. Step 2 (M) SMO subscribe VNFs/Apps performance information from O-Cloud Nodes. SMO response for VNFs/Apps performance information subscription to orchestrators external Step 3 (M) to the O-Cloud. SMO collect VNF/App performance information via O2/O1 interface and send the notification Step 4 (L) to indicate VNF/App performance information to orchestrators form other clouds or application servers. Resource can not fulfill the requirement (Scale out) or less resource is needed (Scale in), Step 5 (M) orchestrators form other clouds or application servers triggers scale action. Step 6 (L) SMO scale VNF/App via O2 interface. Step 7 (M) SMO send response of VNF/App scale-out/Scale-in complete. Ends when Orchestrators form other clouds or application servers get the response. Post Conditions N/A Box “Orchestrator” #lightcyan Box SMO #gold Box O_Cloud Node #lightseagreen periodic or event trigger periodic or event trigger end in) == end Required data： Same as clause 5.6.3.1.

### 5.6.4 Benefits of O-RAN Architecture
By providing computing task performance information to orchestrators external to the O-Cloud, orchestrators and application servers can redeploy or adjust computing tasks in O-Cloud. O-Cloud's edge computing resources can be fully and accurately scheduled. In that way, edge computing vertical businesses (e.g. XR, AI/ML, V2X, vertical industries) can be effectively supported by computing resource services.

# 6 Key Issues

## 6.1 Key Issue #1: Joint Communication and Computing
Optimization Use cases 3, 4, and 5 have a common requirements on the joint communication and computing optimization. Use case investigates the computing aware handover optimization. Use case 3 discusses how to expose the communication and computing status to the external entities (e.g., multi-cloud orchestrator, applications) to enable the RAN aware application optimization. In this key issue, the following points need to be studied:
- How to enhance the mobility management to ensure the connection & service continuity taking both the
communication and computing resource status into consideration?
- What information needs to be exposed by O-RAN to external entities?
- Which entity in O-RAN will do the exposure?
- What’s the mechanism (including the security mechanism) to support the information exposure?

## 6.2 Key Issue #2: O-RAN computing service provision
Use cases 3, 4 and 5 have a common requirement of exposing vacant O-RAN computing capabilities. The radio edge computing capability offered by O-RAN can be discovered by the O-RAN external consumers such as the multi-cloud orchestration or the application servers. The external consumers can monitor the O-RAN computing capability as well as other necessary information to decide whether to request edge application offloading to the O-RAN system. In this key issue, the following mechanisms need to be studied:
- How an external consumer requests or subscribes to O-RAN system for providing the O-RAN computing
capabilities?
- How O-RAN system provides/updates the O-RAN computing capabilities to the external consumer?
- How an external consumer requests or subscribes to O-RAN system for offloading the computing tasks to O-
RAN system?

## 6.3 Key Issue #3: O-RAN integrated communication and computing service provision
Use Cases 3, 4 and 5 in Clause 5 expect O-RAN to provide integrated communication and computing services towards the external consumers (e.g., a multi-cloud orchestrator) . Currently, SMO intent driven management was studied in focusing on RAN communication services provision. While key issue1 targets the O-RAN computing service provision. Key issue 3 is built on key issue 2 and the RAN service provision studied in [i.32] [i.33] [i.34], trying to investigate the integrated communication and computing service provision. In this key issue, the following mechanisms need to be studied:
- How to describe or model the integrated communication and computing service profile?
- How an external consumer requests or subscribes to the O-RAN system for integrated communication and
computing services?
- How does O-RAN system jointly orchestrate the communication and computing resources to fulfill the service
request?

## 6.4 Key Issue #4: Edge application orchestration in O-RAN
As stated in use cases 3, 4 and 5, the vacant computing resources from the cloud-based RAN can be leveraged to offload edge computing applications or tasks so that radio cloud resources can be efficiently utilized. To achieve this vision and facilitate the computing service provision, integrated communication and computing services provision discussed in key issue 2 and 3, the edge application lifecycle management, including deployment, termination, upgrade, scale-in and out, etc., needs to be considered within O-RAN. In this key issue, the following mechanism needs to be studied:
- How to deploy, manage and orchestrate the edge applications running on the O-Cloud?
- How the edge application orchestration functionality interacts with the SMO services (SMOS) studied in
the joint communication and computing orchestration?

# 7 Potential Solutions

## 7.1 Solution #1: O1 configurations for multi-aspect handover
optimization

### 7.1.1 Key Issue Mapping
This solution is for Key Issue #1: Joint Communication and Computing Optimization, specifically to enhance mobility management to ensure connection and service continuity, taking both communication and computing resource status into consideration.

### 7.1.2 Description
The solution is based on the clause 5.1 Use Case 1: Multi aspect handover optimization. It is built based on the existing capabilities of different interfaces such as R1 interface, O1 interface, O2 interface, etc and introduces new O1 based configurations in Near-RT RIC to support multi-aspect handover optimization in a Communication and Computing Integrated Networks. This solution consists of rApp, SMO/Non-RT RIC Framework, near-RT RIC, E2 nodes, and O-Cloud. rApp uses the R1 interface to retrieve different input data, such as CM data, PM data, location data of different cloud-based RAN entities, supported types of computing resources, capabilities of computing resource types, and load/availability of computing resources in different cloud-based RAN entities. rApp then executes relevant algorithms to derive the proximal computing capability table and availability table for each cloud-based RAN entity. rApp uses this information to create different O1 based configurations for multi-aspect handover optimization using R1 services provided by SMO/Non-RT RIC Framework, which then creates the O1 based configurations at one or more near-RT RIC instances over O1. Near- RT RIC will then use E2 control or E2 policy to ensure the UE handover to the optimum target cloud-based Radio entity.

### 7.1.3 Procedures
participant “O-Cloud(s)” as OCLOUDS participant "rApp" as rApp end end for each O-Cloud based RAN nodes and prepare related O1 configurations for multi-aspect handover optimization. end optimization optimization end

### 7.1.4 Impacts on entities, services and interfaces
SMO/Non-RT RIC Framework:
- Collects necessary CM/PM data from different cloud-based RAN entities over O1 interface. Collects
supported types of computing resources, capabilities of computing resource types, and load/availability of computing resources in different cloud-based RAN entities over O2 interface.
- Provides CM data, PM data, supported types of computing resources, capabilities of computing resource types,
and load/availability of computing resources of different cloud-based RAN entities to rApp over R1 interface.
- Provides O1 configurations to Near-RT RIC via O1 interface based on the request from rApp.
rApp:
- Retrieves necessary C/PM data related to different cloud-based RAN entities from SMO/Non-RT RIC
Framework.
- Retrieves supported types of computing resources, capabilities of computing resource types, and
load/availability of computing resources in different cloud-based RAN entities from SMO/Non-RT RIC Framework.
- Derives the Proximal Computing Capability Table and Availability Table for each cloud-based RAN entity,
use this information to create related O1 configurations to support multi-aspect handover optimization in Near- RT RIC. Near-RT RIC:
- Performs multi-aspect handover optimization based on the O1 configurations received.
- Sends E2 control or E2 policy messages to E2 nodes (O-CU) related to multi-aspect handover optimization.
E2 node:
- Supports CM data read requests from SMO over O1 interface. Collect and Report PM data to SMO over O1
interface.
- Supports UE handover related control and/or policy enforcement from near-RT RIC over E2 interface.
O-Cloud:
- Supports data requests related to supported types of computing resources, capabilities of computing resource
types, and load/availability of computing resources of different cloud-based RAN entities to SMO over O2 interface.

## 7.2 Solution #2: Computing information exposure via Y1
interface

### 7.2.1 Key Issue Mapping
This solution is for KI #1 Joint Communication and Computing Optimization.

### 7.2.2 Description
The solution aims to optimize joint communication and computing resources within O-RAN, particularly for use cases 3, 4, and 5. Building upon the existing capabilities of the Y1 interface, which is well-defined in the Y1 Type Definitions (Y1TD) and currently facilitates the exposure of communication information [i.37], this solution aims to extend the interface's functionality to include the exposure of computing information to external entities. The implementation of this solution involves defining the data structures and formats for computing information on the Y1 interface without needing to change the protocols or the procedures [i.38]. Besides, since Y1 Termination communicates with Y1 consumers via Y1 interface and exposes RAN analytics information service(s) from Near-RT RIC, Near-RT RIC need to obtain computing information from other O-RAN entities. The solution proposes that Near-RT RIC utilizes the O-Cloud Notification APIs to obtain computing information [i.39], which may be computing resources (containing physical and logical resources) or status (e.g., CPU load, network load, and storage consumption) information.

### 7.2.3 Procedures
1. External entities subscribe or request computing information from Near-RT RIC via Y1 interface. 2. Near-RT RIC subscribes or requests computing information via O-Cloud Notification APIs. 3. Near-RT RIC receives response or notifications from O-Cloud. 4. External entities receive response or notifications from Near-RT RIC via Y1 interface.

### 7.2.4 Impacts on entities, services and interfaces
Near-RT RIC:
- Supports for receiving computing information subscription or request from external entities.
- Supports the management of computing information processing workflows before exposure.
- Supports subscription or request to O-Cloud via O-Cloud Notification APIs.
- Supports computing information exposure on the Y1 interface.
O-Cloud:
- Supports for receiving computing information subscription or request from Near-RT RIC.
External entities:
- Supports subscription or request to Near-RT RIC via Y1 interface.

## 7.3 Solution #3: Computing Service Provisioning

### 7.3.1 Key Issue Mapping
The solution is for Key Issue #2: O-RAN computing service provision.

### 7.3.2 Description
In clause 5, the use cases 2 to 5 describes the consumers consuming low latency communication and computing services provided by O-RAN via SMO. To facilitate the provisioning of computing services across diverse application scenarios, it is essential to develop a unified service provisioning approach for the SMO. An unified service provisioning approach of SMO will not only expedite O-RAN's ability to cater to varied business contexts and eliminate the complexity of designing different service delivery methods for different scenarios. Document [i.31] gives an Service Based Architecture (SBA) of Non-RT RIC, and the logical function Service Management and Exposure (SME) has been defined for Non-RT RIC internal services management, and exposes service to externals, therefore, utilizing SME to provide computing service to externals consumers is a feasible solution. This solution proposes to use SME to provide computing services externally. As a prerequisite for offering computing service, computing service firstly needs to be registered with the SME, e.g., RAN edge application orchestrator (REAO) registers computing service to SME. The SME offers service exposure to support external consumers discover computing service. External consumers obtain computing service API information through service discovery and consume computing service with the API.

### 7.3.3 Procedures
Figures 7.3.3-1 to 7.3.3-2 illustrate the process that summarizes the solution, wherein REAO serves as the computing service producer capable of registering and deregistering computing services with SME.

#### 7.3.3.1 Computing service registration and discovery
In the computing service registration procedure, REAO registers computing service to SME. The registered service could be exposed to external consumers. SME needs to provide a service discovery mechanism to enable external consumers to discover the computing service. SME can provide the service API information to external consumers through the service discovery. The service API information may contain the URI, IP address and Port, protocol, protocol number and data format, etc. for consumer consuming the service. The whole procedure is presented in Table 7.3.3-1, illustrated by Figure. 7.3.3-1. Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Computing service is registered with the SME and exposed to external consumers. Goal Consumers can retrieve the computing service API through service discovery. Actors and Roles SME, REAO, computing service consumers. Assumptions The REAO inside SMO produces computing service. REAO registers computing services with the SME. The computing service API information Step 1 (M) may include the URI, IP address, port, protocol, protocol number, data format, etc. SME feeds the computing service registration result, e.g., successful or failure back to Step 2 (M) REAO Step 3 (M) Computing service consumers interacts with SME for the computing service discovery. SME feeds the computing service discovery back with service discovery result (e.g., Step 4 (M) successful, failure), service API, etc. Collections "REAO" as REAO #LightGray Autonumber 1 end end

#### 7.3.3.2 Computing service consumption
In the computing service consumption procedure, consumers consume the computing service with the API retrieved from the service discovery procedure. The consumer provides the service requirements (e.g., required computing resource type, computing resource quantity, e2e latency, image URL, etc.) with in the computing service request, REAO allocates computing resources according to the requirements, deploys the workload and provides the consumer service endpoint information. The whole procedure is presented in Table 7.3.3-2, illustrated by Figure. 7.3.3-2. Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification REAO deploys workloads on the O-Cloud based on user requirements, enabling users to Goal access workloads. Actors and Roles REAO, O-Cloud, computing service consumers. Assumptions The REAO inside SMO produces computing service. Consumers request computing service to REAO. Computing service requirement may Step 1 (M) includes computing resource type (e.g., CPU, GPU,etc.), computing resource quantity, e2e latency, image URL, etc. Step 2 (M) REAO feeds consumer back with a response to the received computing service request. Step 3 (M) REAO deploys the workload on O-Cloud according to the computing requirements. Once the workload deployed, REAO notifies consumer with the service availability and Step 4 (M) service entry point. Step 5 (M) Consumer accesses the deployed workload. Collections "WorkLoad" as WLoad Autonumber 1 end end availability, etc.

### 7.3.4 Impacts on entities, services and interfaces
SMO functionality:
- Introduces new functionality or reuse such as NFO to provide computing service.
- SME functions:
- Support SMOS producer e.g., computing service producer REAO registering computing service to SME.
- Support SMOS producer e.g., computing service producer REAO deregistering computing service from
SME.
- Support SMOS producer e.g., computing service producer REAO updating computing service to SME.
- Support computing service exposure to external consumers.
- Support external consumers to discover computing service.
New service provided by SMO:
- computing service.

## 7.4 Solution #4: Integrated communication & computing service
provisioning via SMO

### 7.4.1 Key Issue Mapping
This solution is for KI #3 O-RAN integrated communication and computing service provision.

### 7.4.2 Description
The solution aims to provide integrated communication and computing services towards the external consumers (e.g., a multi-cloud orchestrator) with O-RAN, particularly for use cases AI, XR, and V2X. Based on the existing research of SMO-enabled RAN communication service provisioning and its capability in retrieving the communication and computing resources information, this solution aims to extend the SMO’s function to provide integrated communication and computing services. This solution involves illustrating the procedure of integrated communication and computing service request, as well as the orchestration of joint communication and computing resources within O-RAN.

### 7.4.3 Procedures
The whole procedure is presented in Table 7.4.3-1, illustrated by Figure. 7.4.3-1. Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Goal Provide integrated communication and computing service via SMO Actors and Roles SMO, Near-RT RIC, O-Cloud，O-CU，O-DU Assumptions All relevant functions and components are instantiated. SMO exposes the integrated communication and computing service, and consumers send requests to SMO, where the service request includes but not limited to following information: Service profile ID Maximum number of UEs Coverage for communication part of communication and computing services provided by RAN Step 1-3 (M) Location of UE Service end-to-end latency requirements UE mobility level, UE trajectory Overall uplink/downlink throughput requirements Uplink/downlink throughput requirements per UE Computing resource requirement Storage resource requirement SMO retrieves communication and computing information via O1 and O2 interfaces and Step 4-5 (M) performs joint communication and computing resource optimization via AI/ML inference. SMO sends the workload deployment policy (e.g., the assigned endpoint) and/or computing resource optimization policy to O-Cloud via the O2 interface; O-Cloud performs workload deployment and resource assignment based on the policy. Step 6-8 (M) SMO sends the communication resource optimization policy to Near-RT RIC via A1 interface, and Near-RT RIC send the policy to the E2 node. Also， Near-RT RIC can perform further communication optimization. E2 node allocates the communication (e.g., bandwidth) for services. SMO sends notifications (e.g., service availability) to the consumer. The consumer Step 9 (M) establishes connection with the assigned endpoint and sends service load to the endpoint. SMO evaluates the performance (e.g., network performance, QoS of service), updates Step 10 (M) AI/ML model and /or policy accordingly. skin rose Autonumber end AI/ML inference end Performance monitoring and evaluation end

### 7.4.4 Impacts on entities, services and interfaces
SMO:
- Supports integrated communication and computing service exposure.
- Supports receiving integrated communication and computing service requests from external entities.
- Supports joint optimization of communication and computing resources.
- Manages communication and computing information.
New service provided by SMO:
- Integrated communication and computing service.

# 8 Analysis on the Potential Architecture Impacts
Based on the use cases study and potential solutions discussed above, the following potential impacts are identified for the O-RAN architecture. Potential SMO Impact
- Exposure of the O-RAN computing resource information
- Exposure of the Computing services, and integrated communication and computing services
- New functionality or enhancement on existing SMO functionality to enable the deployment, management and
orchestration of the applications running on the O-Cloud
- New functionality or enhancement on existing SMO functionality to facilitate the joint communication and
computing orchestration Potential Near-RT RIC Impact
- Exposure of the O-RAN communication and computing information
- New functionality or enhancement on existing functionality to facilitate the computing aware handover
optimization Potential O-Cloud Impact
- Orchestration and management of the application deployment’s life cycle
- Management of the heterogeneous hardware infrastructure for diversified applications, e.g., AI, XR rendering
Potential Impacts on rApps
- Derive proximal computing availability for O-RAN entity based on the load/availability analysis of the
computing resource types Potential O1 Impact
- O1 configurations for handover based on the proximal computing capability and availability

# 9 Deployment Scenarios

## 9.1 Scenario A: Local O-Cloud for private networks
In this scenario, the Near-RT RIC, O-CU, O-DU functions, and edge applications are all deployed on the same local O- Cloud platform as shown in Figure 9.1-1. This scenario support deployments in the industry private networks, where the edge applications, e.g., industry vision detection application can be deployed together with the 5G network to reduce the service latency and the transport bandwidth from the edge to the central cloud. In this scenario, the mobile network operator can provide the entire enterprise 5G network and edge solution. The mobile operator can choose to partner with one or more industry-specific edge application/platform provider, to deliver the end-to-end services including the 5G connection and the edge cloud capabilities. In this case, the mobile network operator can run the O-RAN NFs as well as the edge applications on its own infrastructure, i.e., O-Cloud. The O-RAN network functions and the edge applications are managed and orchestrated by the SMO. The application service provides (ASPs) may consume the services provided by SMO to orchestrate and manage the edge applications.
> NOTE: UPF is out of O-RAN Scope.

## 9.2 Scenario B: Device Edge Cloud and local O-Cloud for private networks
In this scenario, similar to scenario A, the Near-RT RIC, O-CU, O-DU functions, and edge applications are all deployed on the same local O-Cloud platform. Furthermore, the 5G industry gateway is introduced and serves as device edge cloud. The mobile operator can choose to partner with one or more industry-specific edge application/platform, device edge application provider, to deliver the end-to-end services including the 5G connection, the edge cloud capabilities and the device edge cloud capabilities. The SMO can be extended to also manage and orchestrate the device edge cloud and the device edge applications compared to scenario A. The deployment scenario is shown in Figure 9.2-1.

## 9.3 Scenario C: O-Cloud coordination with global orchestrator
In this scenario, the Near-RT RIC network function is deployed on a regional cloud platform, While the O-CU and O- DU functions are deployed on an edge cloud platform that in a different location of the Near-RT RIC. Near-RT RIC can control multiple O-CUs and O-DUs and is centralized for RAN optimization based on a more global view. The deployment scenario is shown in Figure 9.3-1. SMO can manage and orchestrate the cloud infrastructure that holds both the Near-RT RIC, O-CU and O-DU. Moreover, the computing capability of the infrastructure can be exposed by SMO to the global orchestrator. So the global orchestrator can request to deploy the edge applications on the O-Cloud platform as needed.

# 10 Potential Requirements
Description The SMO should support the capability to expose O-RAN computing resource information to REQ-SMO-01 authorized SMO services consumers. REQ-SMO-02 The SMO should expose the RAN computing services to authorized SMO services consumers. The SMO should expose the RAN integrated communication and computing services to REQ-SMO-03 authorized SMO services consumers. The SMO should provide discoverability of the RAN computing capabilities offered by the SMO REQ-SMO-04 to authorized SMO services consumers. The SMO should provide discoverability of the RAN integrated communication and computing REQ-SMO-05 capabilities offered by the SMO to authorized SMO services consumers. The SMO should support the capabilities to jointly orchestrate the communication and REQ-SMO-06 computing resources of the O-Cloud and functionalities running over the O-Cloud . The SMO should support the capabilities to deploy, manage and orchestrate the applications REQ-SMO-07 running on the O-Cloud. The Near-RT RIC should support the capability to expose the O-RAN communication and REQ-RIC-01 computing analytics information. REQ-RIC-02 The Near-RT RIC should support the computing aware handover optimization. The O-Cloud should support the orchestration and management of the application REQ-OCloud-01 deployment’s life cycle. The O-Cloud should support the management of heterogeneous hardware infrastructure for REQ-OCloud-02 diversified applications, e.g., AI, XR rendering. The O1 interface should support the capability of transferring the O1 configurations for REQ-O1-01 handover proximal computing capability and availability. The hardware reference design for O-RAN should support heterogeneous computing for O- REQ-HRD-01 RAN network functions and diversified applications, e.g., edge AI, XR rendering.

# 11 Conclusion and Recommendations
This Technical Report presents the use cases for integrated communication and computing in O-RAN. The potential solutions are also studied for the identified use cases and key issues. It is recommended to continue the study and specify the well identified use cases, the necessary architecture requirements and enhancements during normative work.


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG1.Information Model and Data Models-v01.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG1.Information Model and Data Models-v01.00 Technical Specification O-RAN Information Model and Data Models Specification"
---

## 4.1 Repositories; current conventions to distinguish between models under development versus models that

## 1.1 Scope
This Technical Specification has been produced by the O-RAN.org. The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within O-RAN WG1 and may change following formal O-RAN approval. Should the O-RAN.org modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released by O-RAN Alliance with an identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as follows:

# 7 Release x.y.z
where: x the first digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc. (the initial approved document will have x=01). y the second digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been incorporated in the document. z the third digit included only in working versions of the document indicating incremental changes during the editing process. This document is both a Specification and an Informational Report in that it specifies the Information Model (not yet approved for use) and the Data Models (approved for use) that are foundational for O-RAN’s model-driven architecture and for the functions carried out over O-RAN interfaces, e.g., management functions, procedures, operations and corresponding solutions. In addition, this document includes information about existing standards and industry work that serve as a basis for work items in O-RAN. There is a “prosumer” relationship evolving between O-RAN and 3GPP, as each makes its model available and provides model feedback to the other. Lastly, this document describes the de facto methods and procedures with respect to a “modeling continuum” that aims to establish and evolve an O-RAN Information Model from which O-RAN Data Models may be generated manually or with a set of tools.

## 1.2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this text, constitute provisions of the present document.
- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition number, version number, etc.) or
non-specific.
- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including
a GSM document), a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document in Release 16 [1] 3GPP TR 21.905: Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications [2] 3GPP TR 28.890: Management and orchestration; Study on integration of Open Network Automation

# 35 Platform (ONAP) and 3GPP management for 5G networks
[3] 3GPP TS 28.530: “Management and orchestration; Concepts, use cases and requirements” [4] 3GPP TS 28.531: Management and orchestration; Provisioning [5] 3GPP TS 28.532: Management and orchestration; Generic management services [6] 3GPP TS 28.533: Management and orchestration: Architecture framework [7] 3GPP TS 28.540: Management and orchestration; 5G Network Resource Model (NRM); Stage 1 [8] 3GPP TS 28.541: Management and orchestration; 5G Network Resource Model (NRM); Stage 2 and stage 3 [9] 3GPP TS 28.545: Management and orchestration; Fault Supervision (FS) [10] 3GPP TS 28.550: Management and orchestration; Performance assurance [11] 3GPP TS 28.552: Management and orchestration; 5G performance measurements [12] 3GPP TS 28.554: Management and orchestration; 5G end to end Key Performance Indicators (KPI) [13] 3GPP TS 28.621: Telecommunication management; Generic Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration

# 5 Reference Point (IRP); Requirements
[14] 3GPP TS 28.622: Telecommunication management; Generic Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration

# 7 Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)
[15] 3GPP TS 32.341: Telecommunication management; File Transfer (FT) Integration Reference Point (IRP);

# 9 Requirements
[16] 3GPP TS 32.342: Telecommunication management; File Transfer (FT) Integration Reference Point (IRP);

# 11 Information Service (IS)
[17] 3GPP TS 32.346: Telecommunication management; File Transfer (FT) Integration Reference Point (IRP):

# 13 Solution Set (SS) definitions
[18] 3GPP TS 32.421: Telecommunication management; Subscriber and equipment trace; Trace concepts and requirements [19] 3GPP TS 32.422: Telecommunication management; Subscriber and equipment trace; Trace control and configuration management [20] 3GPP TS 32.423: Telecommunication management; Subscriber and equipment trace; Trace data definition and management [21] 3GPP TS 32.508: Telecommunication management; Procedure flows for multi-vendor plug-and-play eNode

# 21 B connection to the network
[22] 3GPP TS 32.509: Telecommunication management; Data formats for multi-vendor plug and play eNode B connection to the network [23] 3GPP TS 38.401: NG-RAN; Architecture description [24] O-RAN-WG4.MP.0-v05.00: O-RAN Alliance Working Group 4 Management Plane Specification [25] O-RAN WG1 OAM Architecture v03.00 [26] RFC 6241, “Network Configuration Protocol (NETCONF)”, IETF, June 2011 [27] RFC 7950, “The YANG 1.1 Data Modeling Language”, IETF, August 2016 [28] 3GPP TS 32.156: Telecommunication management; Fixed Mobile Convergence (FMC) Model repertoire [29] 3GPP TS 32.160: Management and orchestration; Management service template [30] ONF TR-514: UML Modeling Guidelines [31] ONF TR-515: Papyrus Guidelines [32] ONF TR-531: UML to YANG Mapping Guidelines [33] O-RAN Information Model (from Eclipse/Papyrus); https://wiki.o-ran-sc.org/x/RYCj [34] “Modeling, Use Case and Architecture Process,” B.Cheung et al, May 2019, ONAP

### 1.2.1 Definitions and Abbreviations

### 1.2.2 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].

### 1.2.3 Abbreviations and acronyms
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in

# 9 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].

# 11 3GPP 3rd Generation Partnership Project

# 12 API Application Programming Interface

# 14 EMS Element Management System

# 15 FCAPS Fault, Configuration, Accounting, Performance, Security

# 16 IOC Information Object Class

# 17 LS Liaison Statement

# 18 MANO Management and Orchestration

# 19 ME Managed Element

# 20 MF Managed Function

# 21 MnS Management Service

# 22 MO Managed Object

# 23 MOC Managed Object Class

# 24 MOI Managed Object Instance

# 25 NAT Network Address Translation
Near-RT RIC O-RAN near real time RAN Intelligent Controller

# 27 NMS Network Management System
Non-RT RIC O-RAN non real time RAN Intelligent Controller

# 29 NRM Network Resource Model

# 30 O-CU-CP O-RAN Central Unit – Control Plane.

# 31 O-CU-UP O-RAN Central Unit – User Plane

# 32 O-DU O-RAN Distributed Unit

# 33 OMG Object Management Group

# 34 O-RAN Open Radio Access Network

# 35 O-RU O-RAN Radio Unit

# 36 ONAP Open Network Automation Platform

# 37 PNF Physical Network Function

# 3 SDO Standards Development Organization

# 4 SMO Service Management and Orchestration (layer)

# 5 TR Technical Report

# 6 TS Technical Specification

# 7 UML Unified Modeling Language
SA5 Services & System Aspects Working Group 5 Telecom Management

# 9 VNF Virtualized Network Function

# 9 Definitions:
Information Model: a representation of concepts and the relationships, constraints, rules, and operations to specify data semantics for a chosen domain of discourse. Typically, and Information Model specifies relations between kinds of things, but may also include relations with individual things. It can provide sharable, stable, and organized structure of information requirements or knowledge for the domain context. Data Model: an abstract model that organizes elements of data and standardizes how they relate to one another and to the properties of real-world entities. The term data model may refer to two distinct but closely related concepts: (1) an abstract formalization of the objects and relationships found in a particular application domain; (2) the set of concepts used in defining such formalizations - for example concepts such as entities, attributes, relations, or tables. Logical Data Model: a data model of a specific problem domain expressed independently of a particular database management product or storage technology (physical data model) but in terms of data structures such as relational tables and columns, object-oriented classes, or XML tag Data Dictionary: a centralized repository of information about data such as meaning, relationships to other data, origin, usage, and format Component Physical Data Models: a representation of a data design as implemented, or intended to be implemented, in a database management system for each component. In the lifecycle of a project it typically derives from a logical data model and will include the database artifacts required to create relationships between tables or to achieve performance goals, such as indexes, constraint definitions, linking tables, partitioned tables or clusters

## 2.3 Information and Data Modeling Co-Evolution
The “Modeling Continuum” depicted as Figure 1 (above) is purely conceptual and is intended to provide a framework for Information and Data Modeling Co-evolution that can be applied within both O-RAN and 3GPP, laying the groundwork for collaboration. Here is an example of the process to be adapted to, and adopted by, O-RAN:

# 8 Figure 2 Information and Data Modeling Co-Evolution
[“Modeling, Use Case and Architecture Process,” B.Cheung et al, May 2019, ONAP]

## 2.4 Model and Use Case Development (process)
In addition, there is another evolvoing process within O-RAN and 3GPP to guide and inform Information Model and

# 3 Data Model(s) development based on prioritized use cases.
Once again, alignment between O-RAN and 3GPP is paramount, as the former establishes a de facto “software-driven standard,” while the latter is responsible for the formal approval and acceptance of the full set of release-managed standards for 5G/LTE RAN Here is another example of the process to be adapted to, and adopted by, O-RAN.

# 10 Figure 3 Model and Use Case Development (process)
[“Modeling, Use Case and Architecture Process,” B.Cheung et al, May 2019, ONAP]

## 2.5 O-RAN components reflected within O-RAN Information Model
and Data Model(s) The work to evolve the following O-RAN components will both follow and provide feedback on the OAM Information

# 15 Model and Data Models of 3GPP:

# 16 • Near-RT-RIC

# 17 • O-CU-UP

# 18 • O-CU-CP

# 19 • O-DU

# 20 • O-RU

# 21 • O-eNB
The O-RAN entities listed below are also expected to be reflected within the O-RAN Information Model:

# 4 • E2 interfaces and E2-Topology
- O2 interfaces and O2-Topology [O-Cloud is a future consideration from a modelling perspective]

# 6 • O1

## 2.6 Open Issues and Future Considerations
There are numerous Open Issues and Future Considerations that are captured within the O-RAN wiki pages; however, regardless of any future considerations, the guiding principle is clear and remains unchanged, that O-RAN seeks to re- use and/or augment, not re-invent, that which already exists and has been adopted, i.e., withstood the test of time, by the telecommunications industry in the areas of Information and Data Models. For the most up-to-date compendium of Open Issues and Future Considerations, please refer to the O-RAN wiki.

# 3 O-RAN Information Model

## 3.1 A general view of an Information Model
In general, an Information Model is an abstract but formal representation of entities including their properties, relationships and the operations that can be performed on them. In includes a representation of concepts and the relationships, constraints, rules, and operations to specify data semantics for a chosen domain of discourse:

# 6 • Things (Modeled as Classes) with Definitions

# 7 • Class Properties (Attributes); Class Relationships

# 8 • Association Types (Simple Association, Aggregation, Composition, Inheritance)

# 9 • Multiplicity and Direction

# 10 • Operations/Behaviors (optional)

# 11 • Represented on a Collection of Class Diagrams

# 12 • Implementation Independent

# 13 • Interfaces – Operations, Attributes (in, out, return)

## 3.2 Modeling approach, Unified Modeling Language (UML)
Modeling is the designing of software applications before coding. Modeling is an essential part of large software projects, and helpful to medium and even small projects as well. A model plays the analogous role in software development that blueprints and other plans (site maps, elevations, physical models) play in the building of a skyscraper. Models raise the level of abstraction by hiding or masking details, bringing out the “big picture,” or by focusing on different aspects of a prototype. The Information Model within O-RAN uses the Unified Modeling Language™ (UML®) from the Object Management Group (OMG) with an open source Model-Based Engineering tool, Eclipse Papyrus.

## 3.3 IISOMI (Informal Inter-SDO Open Model Initiative) guidelines
The information model is split into a structural part and a behavioral part; i.e., data model (structural/static) is decoupled from operations model (behavioral/dynamic). The following guidelines are sourced from a Technical Recommendation developed within IISOMI (Informal Inter- SDO Open Model Initiative) and originally published by the ONF:
- UML 2.5 (Unified Modeling Language) is used for specifying the model
- The model shall be management/control protocol-neutral, i.e., not reflect any middleware protocol-specific
characteristics (like e.g., CORBA, HTTP, JMS)
- The model shall be map-able to various protocol-specific interfaces (it is recommended to automate this mapping
supported by tools)
- It shall be possible to separate UML artifact properties which are only required for interface related (purpose
specific) models.
- Traceability from each modeling construct back to requirements and use cases shall be provided whenever possible.

## 3.4 General Information on the UML Model
The following general information on the model shall be set/defined, i.e., is captured within the tool (Papyrus) that is currently being used within O-RAN:
- Namespace - a unique and persistent namespace for the identifiers in the model.
- Organization - a human friendly written name of the SDO/Open Source Project defining the model.
- Contact - detailed information on the project and editor which have developed the model.
- Description - a brief description of the model content; 1 line (optional).
- Copyright - the copyright notice for the model.
- License - the license statement for the model.
- Revision - detailed information on this revision of the model. Each revision of the model should add an additional
revision statement.

## 3.5 O-RAN Information Model
Typically, the Information Model specifies relations between kinds of things, but may also include relations with individual things. It can provide sharable, stable, and organized structure of information requirements or knowledge for the domain context. The complete Information Model in both human- and machine-readable formats as of the date of this document may be found in O-RAN's bitbucket – refer to Appendix A. Please make sure that you are logged in using your Atlassian user ID & password. Note that access to the Information Model is purely for informational purposes, as the O-RAN Information Model is still under development and is not yet approved for use.

## 3.6 Classes/components and interfaces that comprise the O-RAN
Information Model and Data Models Following are a list of classes/components as well as interfaces that should be part of the O-RAN Information model, along with the working group developing this entity, any SDO references if appropriate, followed by comments and the status. This is based on the premise that each WG is responsible for modeling the entity within the modeling tool, Eclipse Papyrus, and WG1 is responsible for stewarding the overarching model inclusive of the input from the other groups. WG Developing Entity Doc Reference Comments Status Model Class / Component Out of scope for O-RAN, but will have NonRTRIC interfaces into O-RAN components. O-CU-CP WG5 3GPP TS 28.541 3GPP start, including attributes O-CU-UP WG5 3GPP TS 28.541 3GPP start, including attributes O-DU 3GPP TS 28.541 3GPP start, including attributes O-RU Shell only ManagedElement 3GPP TS 28.622 Class and attributes Xapp Not present in model Interfaces A1-P WG2 v03.00 Shell Only - to be pursued in a later A1-ML WG2 release Shell Only - to be pursued in a later A1-EI WG2 release O-RAN-WG1.O1 O1 WG1 Interface -v04 E1 WG5 3GPP TS 38.460 3GPP start, including operations list ORAN-WG3.E2GAP.0- E2 WG3 Interface with 9 operations v0.1 F1-c WG5 3GPP TS 38.470 3GPP start, including 24 operations 3GPP start, including limited operation F1-u WG5 3GPP TS 38.470 list OpenFrontHaul WG4 front-haul mplane / cus Shell only 3GPP based start, including a large X2 WG5 3GPP TS 36.423 number of operations O2 WG6 Not present in model Table 1 Classes/components and interfaces that comprise the O-RAN Information Model and Data Model(s)

## 3.7 Installing and using Papyrus
Eclipse Papyrus is an industrial-grade open source Model-Based Engineering tool. Eclipse Papyrus has notably been used successfuly in industrial projects and is the base platform for several industrial modeling tools. Information about this tool and how to use it as well as how it is being used within O-RAN may be found in

# 6 Appendix B.

# 4 O-RAN Data Models
For O1 interfaces, the O-RAN Information Model development should precede and serve as the basis for the Data Model development within each working group (WG1 through WG9).

## 4.1 Repositories; current conventions to distinguish between
models under development versus models that are approved for use The data models are developed and published in working group specific bitbucket that are expected to be available at the time this document is published: https://bitbucket.org/bitbucket-o-ran-alliance/workgroup1 https://bitbucket.org/bitbucket-o-ran-alliance/workgroup2 https://bitbucket.org/bitbucket-o-ran-alliance/workgroup3 https://bitbucket.org/bitbucket-o-ran-alliance/workgroup4 https://bitbucket.org/bitbucket-o-ran-alliance/workgroup5 https://bitbucket.org/bitbucket-o-ran-alliance/workgroup6 https://bitbucket.org/bitbucket-o-ran-alliance/workgroup7 https://bitbucket.org/bitbucket-o-ran-alliance/workgroup8 https://bitbucket.org/bitbucket-o-ran-alliance/workgroup9 Note that these are private repositories that include models that are under development, i.e., not yet approved for use. O-RAN users who require access to bitbucket are instructed to email the WG co-chair(s) with “O-RAN WG_ REPO ACCESS” in the Subject: field, filling in the blank “WG_” with the number of the WG for which repository access is being requested. The link to the public-facing repository that includes the formally released versions of models may be found within Appendix C. There is a convention to identify formally published data models and distinguish them from models that are considered “experimental,” i.e., still under development, not yet approved for use: The revision statement in all YANG models includes a reference statement used to cross-reference the first version of the document where the corresponding description was introduced. For example, the reference in all revision statements for the initial O-RAN models from WG4 include cross-reference to “ORAN-WG4.MP.0-v01.00”. The revision statement of the YANG models also includes a description that is used to track the versioning of the YANG model. All revision statement descriptions will begin with “version ”<a>“.”<b>“.”<c>, where <a>, <b> and <c> are used to reflect the version of the YANG model, where <a> corresponds to the first digit of the O-RAN specification version where the corresponding description was first introduced, corresponding to <x> in sub-section 1.1; <b> is incremented when errors in the YANG model have been corrected; <c> is incremented only in working versions of the YANG model indicating incremental changes during the editing process.

## 4.2 Formal relationship (traceability) between O-RAN Data Models
and the O-RAN Information Model At present, there is no formal relationship and/or traceability between the O-RAN Data Models and O-RAN Information Model; however, this is expected to evolve over time. As indicated within Chapter 2 “Overview and Philosophy,” there is a modeling continuum that aims to establish and evolve one common and coherent Information Model for 5G/LTE RAN from which Data Models may be generated either manually or with a set of tools. As the modeling practices and processes within O-RAN mature, the Information Model and Data Models are expected to co-evolve to develop the APIs required by specific use cases, as depicted below.

# 12 Figure 4 Information and Data Modeling Co-Evolution
[“Modeling, Use Case and Architecture Process,” B.Cheung et al, May 2019, ONAP]

## 4.3 Usage of 3GPP Data Models
The O-RAN Alliance complements the work of other SDOs. 3GPP is the primary source for management plane specifications for O-RAN components. 3GPP has published its “Trial - SA5 Data models” including its yang data models in a public available git repository with the license statement “No license. All rights reserved.” Please refer to Appendix C for the 3GPP-source Data Models that are approved for use. The following table (snapshot) shows a subset of the mapping of 3GPP yang data models to O-RAN element functions as defined by OAM Architecture Specifications. For the most current mapping, please refer to the O-RAN wiki. 3GPP yang data 3GPP spec for o-ru o-du o-cu-up o-cu-cp near-rt-ric model YANG model (in hybrid mode) _3gpp-5g- 3GPP TS 28.541 imported by _3gpp- imported by _3gpp- imported by imported by imported by common-yang- common-managed- common-managed- _3gpp-common- _3gpp-common- _3gpp- types element element managed-element managed- common- element managed- element _3gpp-common- 3GPP TS 28.623 [open] o-ran-m- imported by _3gpp- imported by imported by [open] need ep-rp int.yang & o-ran-ru- nr-nrm-ep _3gpp-nr-nrm-ep _3gpp-nr-nrm-ep discussion, if itf.yang defines the RIC modeled as interface of O-RU, abstract superclass abstract abstract O-RU which maybe it is not for all 3GPP superclass for all superclass for all need detailed needed to O-RU endpoints 3GPP endpoints 3GPP endpoints configuration to interfaces, the [open] as O-RU common part remote PORT, to probably from configure eCPRI

# I ETF
port of O-DU just EP_RP looks not enough _3gpp-common- 3GPP TS 28.623 imported by _3gpp- imported by _3gpp- imported by imported by imported by fm common-managed- common-managed- _3gpp-common- _3gpp-common- _3gpp- element element managed-element managed- common- element managed- needed for alarm list needed for alarm list needed for alarm element handling handling list handling needed for alarm list handling needed for alarm list handling _3gpp-common- 3GPP TS 28.623 root object class root object class root object class root object class root object managed- class element _3gpp-common- 3GPP TS 28.623 needed to extend imported by _3gpp- imported by imported by needed either managed- MF for O-RU nr-nrm- _3gpp-nr-nrm- _3gpp-nr-nrm- for a standalone function functionality gnbdufunction gnbcuupfunction gnbcuCPfunction RIC or combined RIC ME _3gpp-common- 3GPP TS 28.623 imported by _3gpp- imported by _3gpp- imported by imported by imported by measurements common-managed- common-managed- _3gpp-common- _3gpp-common- _3gpp- element element managed-element managed- common- element managed- needed for PM job needed for PM job needed for PM job element control and control and control and needed for PM threshold monitoring threshold monitoring threshold job control and needed for PM monitoring threshold job control and monitoring threshold monitoring _3gpp-common- 3GPP TS 28.623 imported by _3gpp- imported by _3gpp- imported by imported by imported by subnetwork common- common- _3gpp-common- _3gpp-common- _3gpp- subscription-control subscription-control subscription- subscription- common- control control subscription- not needed from O- not needed from O- control RAN point of view RAN point of view not needed from not needed from but cant be removed but cant be removed O-RAN point of O-RAN point of not needed with modification of with modification of view but cant be view but cant be from O-RAN the yang, the yang, removed with removed with point of view Contribution to Contribution to modification of the modification of but cant be 3GPP required 3GPP required yang, Contribution the yang, removed with to 3GPP required Contribution to modification of 3GPP required the yang, Contribution to 3GPP required _3gpp-common- 3GPP TS 28.623 needed for VES needed for VES needed for VES needed for VES needed for VES subscription- subscription subscription subscription subscription subscription control _3gpp-common- 3GPP TS 28.623 imported by _3gpp- imported by _3gpp- imported by imported by imported by top common-managed- common-managed- _3gpp-common- _3gpp-common- _3gpp- element element managed-element managed- common- element managed- abstract class abstract class abstract class element supplying a naming supplying a naming supplying a abstract class attribute attribute naming attribute supplying a abstract class naming attribute supplying a naming attribute _3gpp-common- 3GPP TS 28.623 expected for expected for expected for expected for expected for yang-extensions inVariant inVariant inVariant inVariant inVariant _3gpp-common- 3GPP TS 28.623 imported by many imported by many imported by many imported by imported by yang-types other 3GPP yang other 3GPP yang other 3GPP yang many other many other modules modules modules 3GPP yang 3GPP yang modules modules essential 3GPP essential 3GPP essential 3GPP typedefs, in typedefs, in typedefs, in essential 3GPP essential 3GPP particular particular particular typedefs, in typedefs, in DistinguishedName, DistinguishedName, DistinguishedNam particular particular and other useful and other useful e, and other useful DistinguishedNa DistinguishedN typedefs like typedefs like typedefs like me, and other ame, and other OperationalState, OperationalState, OperationalState, useful typedefs useful typedefs AdministrativeState, AdministrativeState, AdministrativeStat like like AvailabilityStatus AvailabilityStatus e, OperationalState, OperationalStat AvailabilityStatus AdministrativeSta e, te, AdministrativeS AvailabilityStatus tate, AvailabilityStatu s Table 2 Mapping of 3GPP yang data models to O-RAN element functions

## 4.4 Usage of non-3GPP data models
There are domains of data-models being considered by O-RAN WGs (Working Groups) that are not covered by 3GPP but are covered by other SDOs, e.g., IETF, MEF, IEEE, ONF, BBF, and occasionally imported by 3GPP. Note that this is merely a snapshot as of the date of this document and is expected to be revisited as part of subsequent release(s). The following table shows data models that are of interest and being considered within O-RAN and/or 3GPP: o-ru (to be Order yang data revised to o-du o-cu-up o-cu-cp near-rt-ric Comments No model separate O1 and M-Plane) import by import by import by import by import by several models _3gpp- _3gpp- _3gpp- ietf-yang- including _3gpp- _3gpp- common- common- common- types common-yang- common-yang- yang- yang- yang- types.yang types.yang types.yang types.yang types.yang import by import by import by import by import by several models _3gpp- _3gpp- _3gpp- ietf-inet- including _3gpp- _3gpp- common- common- common- types common-yang- common-yang- yang- yang- yang- types.yang types.yang types.yang types.yang types.yang ietf- must have must have must have must have must have netconf.yang ietf-netconf- baseline for Network Configuration acm.yang access control Access Control Model ietf-netconf- used by WG4 M- NETCONF Monitoring monitoring Plane Module NETCONF operations to ietf-netconf- support nmda the Network Management Datastore Architecture This module defines a YANG data model for use with the not O1 but not O1 but ietf-netconf- OpenFronthaul OpenFronthaul NETCONF protocol that notifications allows the NETCONF client mPlane mPlane to receive common NETCONF base event notifications ietf-netconf- partial-lock time-triggered configuration ietf-netconf- and management time operations NETCONF client to control how default values are ietf-netconf- handled by the server in with-defaults particular NETCONF operations configuration and identification of some common system properties within a device containing a NETCONF server overlaps with o- ran-operations 020 ietf-system but may be
- time-zone
management required to support 802.1X
- radius
- local users
- NTP
not O1 but not O1 but 030 ietf-hardware OpenFronthaul OpenFronthaul mPlane mPlane iana- import by ietf- import by ietf- IANA-defined identities for hardware hardware hardware hardware class. ietf- 032 hardware- hardware monitoring state ietf- foundation for interfaces fronthaul not O1 but not O1 but YANG identities for IANA- 034 iana-if-type OpenFronthaul OpenFronthaul registered mPlane mPlane interface types This module defines an 040 ietf-alarms interface for managing alarms. foundation for ietf-ip fronthaul M- managing IP implementations Plane considered - but ietf-ptp decided o define configuration of IEEE Std owno-ran- 1588-2008 clocks sync.yang ietf-yang- foundation for library YANG 1.1 This YANG module defines an 'extension' statement ietf-yang- that allows metadata for defining metadata annotations This module contains conceptual YANG ietf-yang- specifications for the patch YANG Patch and YANG Patch Status data structures. ietf-yang- push This module defines a YANG extension statement ietf-yang- that can be used to schema- incorporate data models mount defined in other YANG modules in a module. This module defines YANG extensions that are used to ietf-yang- translate smiv2 SMIv2 concepts into YANG. iana-crypto- used in CTI hash used by ietf-crypto- fronthaul file types management being ieee802- considered by dot1x STG

## 4.5 YANG Conventions
This section describes the recommended conventions to be used in the O-RAN Alliance when writing YANG models. In particular, because the creation and maintenance of YANG models is expected to be distributed across different working groups, this guide is intended to ensure that the way the models are organized and presented will be consistent across the entirety of the O-RAN Alliance.

### 4.5.1 Naming
MODULE FILE NAMING: M-Plane YANG modules should have filenames of the form “o-ran-xxx.yang” (for O1 the file naming is TBD) MODULE NAMESPACE: YANG modules should have a namespace defined of the form namespace "urn:o- ran:xxx:version"; where version represents an increasing numerical integer value and where the value used in all newly defined models is "1". The module namespace version will be incremented when any non-backwards compatible changes are introduced into a model. PREFIX NAMING: Each module requires a prefix statement with a prefix that other dependent modules will use (also used in path references within the same module). Prefixes should be short and clear, with abbreviations as appropriate. Module prefixes should be of the form: o-ran-xxx, or or-xxx, and must be unique regardless of over which interface the YANG module is exposed (ex. O1 or Open FrontHaul M-Plane).

### 4.5.2 Revision Statement
The revision statement in all YANG models includes a reference statement used to cross-reference to the version of a particular O-RAN publication where the corresponding functionality was initially introduced. The revision statement of the YANG models also includes a description that is used to track the versioning of the YANG model. All revision statement descriptions will begin with version a.b.c, where a, b and c are used to reflect the version of the YANG model, where ‘a’ corresponds to the first digit of the O-RAN specification version where the corresponding description was first introduced; ‘b’ is incremented when errors in the YANG model have been corrected; ‘c’ is incremented only in working versions of the YANG model indicating incremental changes during the editing process. Hence, all published versions of O-RAN alliance YANG models should have this value set to zero.

### 4.5.3 Indents
O-RAN Alliance YANG models should use two-space tab indents.

### 4.5.4 YANG Language Usage
YANG VERSION: All models should use YANG data modeling language version 1.1 [1] (RFC 7950) and follow the Guidelines for Authors and Reviewers of YANG Data Model Documents [RFC 6087]. TOP-LEVEL DATA NODE: There should only be one top-level data node defined in each YANG module, if any data nodes are defined at all. NMDA (Network Management Datastore Architecture): No O-RAN YANG models should prevent the use of NMDA [RFC 8342]. KEY-LESS LISTS OF OPERATIONAL STATE: Although permitted in YANG, the use of a list that consists of operational-state without a defined key should be avoided. VALIDATION: All YANG modules should be validated / compiled with pyang tool using the following flag: pyang -- lint <module>. Note, successful compilation with pyang does not guarantee a working model, as xPATH expressions aren't evaluated and forbidden operational data dependencies in the configuration may not generate appropriate errors. NETCONF ACCESS CONTROL: Sensitive data within models should be tagged with an appropriate "nacm:default" statement. O-RAN makes use of NACM (NETCONF Access Control Model RFC 8341) rules to define the privileges associated with user groupings. An O-RAN NETCONF server should hard code these restrictions into the server. The defined NACM rules are therefore unmodifiable, with the rules being used to provide an "external indication" of such restrictions. CONSTRAINTS: Generally, O-RAN systems should strive to consider a blank configuration to be a valid config.

### 4.5.5 Cross Working Group Co-ordination
Models that are likely to be applicable to more than one O-RAN Alliance working group should provide clear delineation between separate working groups configuration and/or state. The use of feature and if-feature is recommended to ensure that NETCONF servers are not required to implement the entire data model, e.g., when aspects of such relate to the individual working group defined use cases. The feature name should indicate which working


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG1.Network-Energy-Savings-Technical-Report-R003-v02.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG1.NESUC-R003-v02.00 O-RAN Work Group 1 (Use Cases and Overall Architecture)"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1]. Energy Efficiency: relation between the useful output and energy/power consumption as defined in ETSI ES 203 228 [2] Energy Consumption: integral of power consumption over time as defined in ETSI ES 202 706-1 [10]

## 3.2 Symbols
No symbol is defined in this TR.

## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of this document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1], 3GPP TS 38.300 [9], ETSI ES 203 228 [2], O-RAN.WG1.O-RAN-Architecture-Description [3], O-RAN.WG6.CADS [5] apply.

# 4 Objectives and Requirements

## 4.1 Objectives
This Technical Report captures the outcome of the WG1 UCTG Network Energy Saving pre-normative phase. The objectives of the pre-normative phase are as follows:
- study and investigate all required counters/KPI’s for monitoring and reporting of Energy Consumption
and Energy Efficiency in real time for all O-RAN defined nodes such as O-RU, O-DU, O-CU as well as 3GPP defined logical components of network such as Cell, Carrier, gNB,
- study requirements, key issues, proposed solutions, benefits of the Energy Saving proposals,
- study potential impact and required enhancements to O-RAN interfaces such as E2, O1, A1, FH M-
plane, FH CUS-Plane, R1, and Near-RT RIC API,
- study potential impact and required enhancements on data models of all O-RAN entities,
- identify the any possible impact on Non-RT RIC architecture, Near-RT RIC architecture and AI/ML
workflow. The use cases studied in the NES pre-normative phase are:
- Carrier and Cell Switch Off/On
- RF Channel Reconfiguration Off/On
- Advanced Sleep Mode Selection
- O-Cloud Resource Energy Saving Mode
Algorithms discussed and analyzed as part of the Network ES pre-normative phase will be examples only and will not be part of any specification as outcome of this pre-normative phase or subsequent work items. For each use case solution proposal, the detailed objectives are:
- Review, evaluate applicability of, and select from existing deployment alternatives (Non-RT and/or
Near-RT RIC) and AI/ML deployment scenarios and document respective findings:
- Evaluate energy savings gains based on a E2 Node/O-RU/PNF/VNF energy consumption
model using evaluation metrics/KPIs and including assessment of impact on network and user performance.
- Study on a per sub-use case basis potential impact and enhancements on O-RAN interfaces
(e.g. O1, O2, A1, E2, O-FH) in terms of required input data and output configuration data.
- Review existing counters, KPIs, and data models as specified/studied in 3GPP.
- Study potential enhancements on existing counters, KPIs, and data models or define new
counters, KPIs, and data models of all involved O-RAN entities. NES use cases should reuse the existing 3GPP measurements and measurement reporting for input data as well as the existing 3GPP configuration and provisioning management for the output data as much as possible. If new measurements or configuration parameters are essential to support new NES use cases, then these should preferably be based on parameters, variables, definitions and procedures that are already used in the 3GPP/O- RAN specifications. The current standardization approach (specifying the new measurement in 3GPP specifications and referring to it in O-RAN specifications) should be prioritized over inventing new standardization approaches.

## 4.2 Requirements
This TR shall capture Energy consumption and Energy Efficiency related counters and KPIs including the following: O-RU Specific KPIs
- Energy Efficiency and power consumption KPIs provided by real-time metering.
O-CU/O-DU Hardware & Software / O-Cloud Software & Platform KPIs
- O-CU/O-DU hardware (e.g., CPU, accelerators, NIC cards, fans and power supply, etc.) shall have the
capability to measure and report power consumption values to the O-Cloud. The O-Cloud software shall be able to collect measurement data at the hardware component level (e.g., CPU, NIC, accelerator card, fans and power supply, etc.) and provide power, energy and environmental (PEE) parameters/KPIs. O-Cloud shall be able to report EE through O2 interface to the SMO or through North-Bound Interfaces (NBI) to external tools.
- The O-Cloud software shall be able to provide PEE parameters/KPIs at the workload level (e.g., pod,
O-CU/O-DU CNF, etc.), as well as for the O-Cloud platform software components themselves. O- Cloud shall be able to report energy efficiency through O2 interface to the SMO or through NBI to external tools.
- O-CU and O-DU shall provide CNF level energy efficiency counters/KPIs (e.g., power consumption,
Traffic load, data volume, throughput), which shall be reported through O1 interface to the SMO or through NBI to external tools.

# 5 Carrier and Cell Switch Off/On

## 5.1 Problem Statement, Solution and Value Proposition
Mobile networks often utilize multiple frequency layers (carriers) to cover the same service area. At low load, i.e. when the expected traffic volume is lower than a fixed threshold, ES can be achieved by switching off one or more carriers or entire cells without impairing the user experience. UEs previously served by the carrier or cell will be offloaded by the E2 Node to a new target carrier or cell prior to the switch off. However, the switch off/on decisions are not a trivial task. There are conflicting targets between system performance and energy savings. Other carriers and/or cells will have to serve the additional traffic and traffic is changing over time. E2 Nodes support a number of techniques effecting energy consumption which might also be load dependent. While energy savings for the switched off carrier and/or cell is maximized, the overall energy consumption of the network might even increase. Carrier and cell switch off/on control by the Non-RT or Near-RT RIC can consider overall network energy efficiency instead of local optimization. The switch off/on decision can optionally be made by an AI/ML model within the inference host, deployed at the Non-RT RIC (deployment option 1) or at the Near-RT RIC (deployment option 2) to further improve decision making. Among others, the AI/ML models' functionality may include prediction of future traffic, user mobility, and resource usage and may also predict expected energy efficiency enhancements, resource usage, and network performance for different ES optimization states. Before switching off/on carrier(s) and/or cell(s), the E2 Node may need to perform some preparation actions for off switching (e.g. check ongoing emergency calls and warning messages, to enable, disable, modify Carrier Aggregation and/or Dual Connectivity, to trigger HO traffic and UEs from cells/carriers to other cells or carriers, informing neighbour nodes via X2/Xn interface etc.) as well as for on switching (e.g., cell probing, informing neighbour nodes via X2/Xn interface etc.).

## 5.2 Architecture/Deployment Options

### 5.2.1 Option 1: Non-RT RIC Deployment
In option 1, decision making, potentially including AI/ML Model Training and Inference, is done at the Non- RT RIC.

#### 5.2.1.1 Description and UML Diagram
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Enable Carrier and Cell switch off/on Energy Saving functions in the Goal Network by means of configuration parameter change and Actions controlled by Non-RT RIC and allow for AI/ML-based solutions. Non-RT RIC acting as inference host for Energy Savings decision making. Actors and Roles E2 Node and O-RU are the subject of action for configuration enforcement. O1 interface connectivity is established. Open FH M-Plane interface is established between E2 Node and O-RU and/or SMO and O-RU directly. Assumptions Network is operational. Non-RT RIC has knowledge about overlapping carriers/cells and the coverage of those carriers/cells (e.g., which carrier/cell is a coverage layer and which is a capacity layer). The operator has set the targets for Energy Saving functions in the Non- Pre-conditions RT RIC. Operator enables the optimization functions for carrier and cell switch Begins when off/on Energy Saving functions and E2 Node and O-RU become operational. SMO initiates specific measurement data collection request towards E2 Step 1 (M) Node and O-RU (via E2 Node and O-FH) for AI/ML model training and inference. E2 Node and O-RU send the configured measurement data to SMO Step 2 (M) periodically or event based. Step 3 (M) Non-RT RIC retrieves the collected measurement data for processing. Non-RT RIC trains the AI/ML models with the collected data. Trained AI/ML models are deployed, configured, and activated. Step 4 (M) Non-RT RIC constantly monitors (i) performance and energy consumption of the E2 Node(s) (ii) energy consumption of O-RU(s) Based on the AI/ML inference the Non-RT RIC may request the SMO to Step 5 (M) configure E2 Node to prepare and execute cell or carrier switch off/on. SMO instructs E2 Node via O1 interface to perform the received request(s) from the Non-RT RIC. O-RU is informed about the updated Step 6 (M) O-RU configuration via Open FH M-Plane interface by E2 Node. E2 Node will notify SMO once cell or carrier switch off/on is completed. Non-RT RIC continuously analyzes performance of AI/ML model. If Step 7 (M) energy saving objectives are not achieved, it may decide to initiate fallback mechanism, and/or AI/ML model update or retraining. E2 Node becomes non-operational or when the operator disables the Ends when optimization functions for Energy Saving. Exceptions None. Non-RT RIC continues closed-loop monitoring of Energy Saving function at E2 Node and O-RU. Post Conditions E2 Node(s) and O-RU(s) operate using the newly deployed parameters/models and state (off/on). Box "Service Management & \n Orchestration Framework" #gold Box "O-RAN Nodes" #lightpink end RU(s)) end off/on SMO <-> E2NODES : <<O1>> E2-Node parameter configurations and recommendation for carrier(s) and cell(s) switch off/on, \nmessage response and/or notification of execution. E2NODES <-> ORUs : <<FH>> Update O-RU Configurations \nand notification of update fallback, re-training) end RIC

#### 5.2.1.2 O-RAN Entity Roles
1) Non-RT RIC a) Collect configurations, performance indicators and measurement reports (e.g., cell load related information and traffic information, EE/EC measurement reports, geolocation information) from SMO, E2 Nodes and O-RUs (forwarded by SMO), for the purpose of decision making, optionally using training and inference of AI/ML models that assist such EE/ES functions. b) (Optionally) Trigger EE/ES AI/ML model training/retraining. c) (Optionally) Deploy, update, configure EE/ES AI/ML models in Non-RT RIC. d) Analyze the received data from SMO, E2 Nodes, and O-RUs to determine EE/ES optimization (i.e. if carriers or cells are recommended to be switched off/on), optionally using AI/ML models e) Signal updated configurations for EE/ES optimization to E2 Nodes (O-CU) via R1/O1. 2) E2 Node a) Report cell configuration, performance indicators and measurement reports (e.g., cell load related information and traffic information, EE/EC measurement reports) to SMO via O1 interface. b) Perform actions required for EE/ES optimization o e.g. check ongoing emergency calls and warning messages, perform some preparation actions for Off Switching (e.g., to enable, disable, modify Carrier Aggregation and/or Dual Connectivity, to trigger HO traffic and UEs from cells/carriers to other cells or carriers, informing neighbour nodes via X2/Xn interface etc.) as well as for On Switching (e.g., cell probing, informing neighbour nodes via X2/Xn interface etc.) and make final decision on switch off/on and notify SMO via O1 about performed actions 3) O-RU a) Report EC and EE related information via Open FH M-Plane interface to O-DU or alternatively to SMO directly. b) Support actions required to perform EE/ES optimization. o updated carrier configuration (i.e. activation, deactivation or sleep)

#### 5.2.1.3 Input/Output Data Requirements

##### 5.2.1.3.1 Summary
Input Data 1) E2 Node to SMO/Non-RT RIC ➢ Carrier/cell characteristics ➢ EE/EC measurement reports ➢ Load statistics per cell and per carrier ➢ UE mobility information including cell or beam level measurements (e.g. RSRP, RSRQ, SINR) ➢ Energy consumption 2) O-RU to E2 Node ➢ Power consumption metrics: Mean total/per carrier power consumption, mean total/per carrier transmit power Output Data 1) SMO to E2 Node ➢ Carrier(s) and/or cell(s) recommended to be switched off/on

##### 5.2.1.3.2 Detailed Input Requirements
Initialization: Input Data Interface Source / Name/Description Units Reporting Existing /New Definitions Target Period R1 SMO / rApp Optimization target for manual or New Carrier/Cell Switch Off/On event triggered E.g., (average or max) NG-RAN bit/J 3GPP TS 28.554 [7] (Cl. 6.7.1) data Energy Efficiency O1, R1 E2 Node (O- Carrier/cell characteristics - manual or New DU) / SMO / event rApp triggered (e.g., SMO feature activation, E2 Node startup / failure / reconfig.) E.g., physical location, transmit 3GPP TS 28.541 [11] (Cl. direction, carrier frequency, 4.3.6, 4.3.38, 4.3.39, 4.3.40, coverage parameters, configured 4.3.74) transmit power, beam width, coverage shape, tilt, azimuth, O-RAN.WG5.O-DU-O1 (Sec. carrier-cell mapping, carrier-HW 10), O-RAN-WG5.O-CU-O1 mapping (Sec. 9) AI/ML Model Training: Input Data Interface Source / Target Name/Description Units Reporting Existing Definitions Period O1, R1 E2 Node (O- DL PDCP SDU Data Volume per Mbit (non-real Measurement: CU) / SMO / interface (Data Volume in DL time for 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] rApp delivered from O-CU-UP to O- training) (Cl. 5.1.3.6.2.3) DU, per PLMN, per QoS level, per slice, per Interface (F1-U, Xn- U, X2-U)) O1, R1 E2 Node (O- UL PDCP SDU Data Volume per Mbit (non-real Measurement: CU) / SMO / interface (Data Volume in UL time for 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] rApp delivered to O-CU-UP from O- training) (Cl. 5.1.3.6.2.4) DU, per PLMN, per QoS level, per slice, per Interface (F1-U, Xn- U, X2-U)) O1, R1 E2 Node (O- RSRQ measurement per SSB per dB (non-real Measurement: CU) / SMO / cell time for 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] (Cl. rApp training) 5.1.1.31) O1, R1 E2 Node (O- RSRP measurement per SSB per dBm (non-real Measurement: CU) / SMO / cell time for 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] rApp training) (Cl. 5.1.1.22) O1, R1 E2 Node (O- SINR measurement per SSB per dB (non-real Measurement: CU) / SMO / cell time for 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] rApp training) (Cl. 5.1.1.32) O1, R1 E2 Node (O- Energy consumption kWh (non-real Measurement: CU) / SMO / time for 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] rApp training) (Cl. 5.1.1.19.3) O-FH (M- O-RU / O-DU Power consumed by hardware W (non-real Measurement: Plane) or component time for 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] (Cl. or O-RU / O-DU / training) 5.1.1.19.2) O-FH (M- SMO / rApp Plane), Reporting: O1, R1 O-RAN.WG4.MP (Sec. B.1, B.5) O-FH (M- O-RU / O-DU Transmit power mW (non-real Measurement and reporting: Plane) or time for O-RAN.WG4.MP or O-RU / O-DU / training) (Sec. B.1, B.2.1) O-FH (M- SMO / rApp Plane), O1, R1 Input Decision Making / AI/ML Inference: Input Data Interface Source / Target Name/Description Units Reporting Existing Definitions Period O1, R1 E2 Node (O- Data Volume in DL delivered from O- Mbit > min Measurement: CU) / SMO / CU-UP to O-DU, per PLMN, per QoS 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] rApp level, per slice, per Interface (F1-U, (Cl. 5.1.3.6.2.3) Xn-U, X2-U) O1, R1 E2 Node (O- Data Volume in UL delivered to O- Mbit > min Measurement: CU) / SMO / CU-UP from O-DU, per PLMN, per 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] rApp QoS level, per slice, per Interface (F1- (Cl. 5.1.3.6.2.4) U, Xn-U, X2-U) O1, R1 E2 Node (O- RSRQ measurement per SSB per cell dB > min Measurement: CU) / SMO / 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] rApp (Cl. 5.1.1.31) O1, R1 E2 Node (O- RSRP measurement per SSB per cell dBm > min Measurement: CU) / SMO / 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] rApp (Cl. 5.1.1.22) O1, R1 E2 Node (O- SINR measurement per SSB per cell dB > min Measurement: CU) / SMO / 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] rApp (Cl. 5.1.1.32) O1, R1 E2 Node (O- Energy consumption kWh > min Measurement: CU) / SMO / 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] rApp (Cl. 5.1.1.19.3) O-FH (M- O-RU / O-DU Power consumed by hardware W > min Measurement: Plane) or component 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] or O-RU / O-DU / (Cl. 5.1.1.19.2) O-FH (M- SMO / rApp Plane), Reporting: O1, R1 O-RAN.WG4.MP (Sec. B.1, B.5) O-FH (M- O-RU / O-DU Transmit power mW > min Measurement and Plane) or reporting: or O-RU / O-DU / O-RAN.WG4.MP O-FH (M- SMO / rApp (Sec. B.1, B.2.1) Plane), O1, R1

##### 5.2.1.3.3 Detailed Output Requirements
Output Decision Making / AI/ML Inference: Output Data Interface Source / Target Name/Description Units Config. Existing Definitions Period O1, R1 rApp / SMO / Candidate carrier(s) / cells (s) - > min 3GPP TS 28.541 [11] E2 Node (O- recommended for energy saving to (Cl. 4.3.63) CU) enter energySaving state (e.g., 3GPP TS 28.310 [8] Sec. 6.2.2) O-RAN-WG5.O-CU-O1 (Sec. 9) Candidate carrier(s) / cell (s) for - > min - compensation (e.g., 3GPP TS 32.551 [15] compensatingForEnergySaving, optional) O1, R1 E2 Node (O- Confirmation (Success/Failure) - event 3GPP TS 28.310 [8] (Cl. CU) / SMO / triggered 6.2.2) rApp O-FH (M- E2 Node (O- Updated carrier configuration (i.e., - > min O-RAN.WG4.MP Plane) DU) / O-RU activation, deactivation, or sleep) (Sec. 15.3.2)

### 5.2.2 Option 2: Near-RT RIC Deployment
In option 2, decision making, potentially using AI/ML Model Inference, is done at Near-RT RIC. While AI/ML Model Training might be hosted in Non-RT or Near-RT RIC, the description below is based on AI/ML Model Training in the Non-RT RIC.

#### 5.2.2.1 Description and UML Diagram
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Enable Carrier and Cell switch off/on Energy Saving functions in the Goal Network by means of configuration parameter change and Actions controlled by Near-RT RIC and allow for AI/ML-based solutions. Non-RT RIC acting as AI/ML model management entity. Near-RT RIC acting as inference host for Energy Savings decision Actors and Roles making. E2 Node and O-RU are the subject of action for configuration enforcement. O1 connectivity is established between the SMO with E2 Node, and Near-RT RIC and Non-RT RIC. E2 interface connectivity is established between E2 Node and Near-RT RIC. A1 interface is established between Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC. Assumptions Open FH M-Plane interface is established between E2 Node and O-RU. Network is operational. Near-RT RIC has knowledge about overlapping carriers/cells and the coverage of those carriers/cells (e.g., which carrier/cell is a coverage layer and which is a capacity layer). The operator has set the targets for Energy Saving function in the Non- Pre-conditions RT RIC. The operator enables the optimization functions for carrier and cell Begins when switch off/on Energy Saving functions and E2 Node and O-RU become operational. SMO initiates specific measurement data collection request towards E2 Step 1 (M) Node and O-RU for AI/ML model training. E2 Node and O-RU send the configured measurement data to SMO Step 2 (M) periodically or event based. Step 3 (M) Non-RT RIC retrieves the collected measurement data for processing Non-RT RIC trains the AI/ML models with the collected data. Trained AI/ML models are deployed, configured, and activated in the Near-RT Step 4 (M) RIC. SMO may trigger EE/ES optimization and might provide policies guiding Step 5 (M) the Near-RT RIC EE/ES function via O1 and/or via Non-RT RIC and A1 interface. Near-RT RIC constantly monitors (i) performance and energy consumption of the E2 Node(s) (ii) energy consumption of O-RU(s) Based on the AI/ML inference, considering optimization policies, the Step 6 (M) Near-RT RIC may request the E2 Node to prepare and execute cell or carrier switch off/on. E2 Node may request O-RU Node to prepare and execute cell or carrier switch off/on. E2 Node will notify Near-RT RIC once cell or carrier switch off/on is completed. E2 Node becomes non-Operational or when the operator disables the Ends when optimization functions for Energy Saving. Exceptions None. Near-RT RIC continues closed-loop monitoring of Energy Saving function at E2 Node and O-RU. Post Conditions E2 Node and O-RU operate using the newly deployed parameters/models and state (off/on). skin rose Box "Service Management & \n Orchestration Framework" #gold Box "O-RAN Nodes" #lightpink end end alt else end end RTRIC <-> E2NODES : <<E2>> E2-Node parameters configuration and actions \nfor carrier(s) and cell(s) switch off/on preparation & execution \n and notication of execution E2NODES <-> ORUs: <<FH>> Update O-RU configurations \nand notification of update end RIC

#### 5.2.2.2 O-RAN Entity Roles
1) Non-RT RIC a) (Optionally) Collect configurations, performance indicators and measurement reports (e.g., cell load related information and traffic information, EE/EC measurement reports, geolocation information) from SMO, E2 Nodes and O-RUs (forwarded by SMO), for the purpose of training AI/ML models that assist such EE/ES functions. b) (Optionally) Trigger EE/ES AI/ML model training/retraining. c) (Optionally) Deploy, update, configure EE/ES AI/ML models, in Near-RT RIC via O1/O2 interface. d) Provide optimization trigger, optimization targets and intent-based policies (e.g., set energy target to 50% of peak power consumption) to Near-RT RIC via R1/O1 or A1 interface. 2) Near-RT RIC a) Collect configurations, performance indicators and measurement reports (e.g., cell load related information and traffic information, EE/EC measurement reports) from E2 Nodes. b) (Optionally) Receive EE/ES AI/ML model for deployment via O1 or O2 interface. c) Receive EE/ES related configuration management via O1 interface and/or policies via A1 interface for consideration during optimization. d) Analyze the received data from E2 Nodes and perform AI/ML model inference to determine EE/ES. optimization (i.e. if carriers or cells are recommended to be switched off/on) considering the optimization targets/policies. e) Provide policies or required information to E2 Node (O-CU) via E2 to trigger actions for EE/ES optimization. 3) E2 Node a) Report cell configuration, performance indicators and measurements reports (e.g., cell load related information and traffic information, EE/EC measurement reports) per cell/carrier via O1 interface to SMO and via E2 interface to Near-RT RIC. b) Perform actions required for EE/ES optimization o e.g. check ongoing emergency calls and warning messages, perform some preparation actions for Off Switching (e.g., to enable, disable, modify Carrier Aggregation and/or Dual Connectivity, to trigger HO traffic and UEs from cells/carriers to other cells or carriers, informing neighbour nodes via X2/Xn interface etc.) as well as for On Switching (e.g., cell probing, informing neighbour nodes via X2/Xn interface etc.) and make final decision on switch off/on and notify Near-RT RIC via E2 about performed actions 4) O-RU a) Report EC and EE related information via Open FH M-Plane interface to O-DU or alternatively to SMO directly. b) Support actions required to perform EE/ES optimization. o updated carrier configuration (i.e. activation, deactivation or sleep)

#### 5.2.2.3 Input/Output Data Requirements

##### 5.2.2.3.1 Summary
Input Data 1) E2 Node to SMO/Non-RT RIC (training) and Near-RT RIC (decision making/inference) ➢ Carrier/cell characteristics ➢ EE/EC measurement reports ➢ Load statistics per cell and per carrier ➢ UE mobility information including cell or beam level measurements (e.g., RSRP, RSRQ, SINR) ➢ Energy Consumption 2) O-RU to E2 Node ➢ Power consumption metrics: Mean total/per carrier power consumption, mean total/per carrier transmit power Output Data 1) Near-RT RIC to E2 Node ➢ Carrier(s) and/or cell(s) recommended to be switched off/on

##### 5.2.2.3.2 Detailed Input Requirements
Initialization: Input Data Interface Source / Target Name/Description Units Reporting Existing / New Period Definitions O1 SMO / Near-RT Optimization target for manual or New RIC Carrier/Cell Switch Off/On event triggered E.g., (average or max) NG-RAN bit/J 3GPP TS 28.554 [7] (Cl. data Energy Efficiency 6.7.1) E2, O1, E2 Node (O- Carrier/cell characteristics - manual or New R1 DU) / Near-RT event RIC / SMO / triggered rApp (e.g., SMO feature activation, E2 Node startup / failure / reconfig.) E.g., physical location, transmit 3GPP TS 28.541 [11] (Cl. direction, carrier frequency, 4.3.6, 4.3.38, 4.3.39, coverage parameters, configured 4.3.40, 4.3.74) transmit power, beam width, coverage shape, tilt, azimuth, O-RAN.WG5.O-DU-O1 carrier-cell mapping, carrier-HW (Sec. 10), O-RAN- mapping WG5.O-CU-O1 (Sec. 9) AI/ML Model Training: Input Data Interface Source / Target Name/Description Units Reporting Existing Definitions Period O1, R1 E2 Node (O- DL PDCP SDU Data Volume per Mbit (non-real Measurement: DU) / SMO / interface (Data Volume in DL time for 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] rApp delivered from O-CU-UP to O-DU, per training) (Cl. 5.1.3.6.2.3) PLMN, per QoS level, per slice, per Interface (F1-U, Xn-U, X2-U)) O1, R1 E2 Node (O- UL PDCP SDU Data Volume per Mbit (non-real Measurement: DU) / SMO / interface (Data Volume in UL time for 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] rApp delivered to O-CU-UP from O-DU, per training) (Cl. 5.1.3.6.2.4) PLMN, per QoS level, per slice, per Interface (F1-U, Xn-U, X2-U)) O1, R1 E2 Node (O- RSRQ measurement per SSB per cell dB (non-real Measurement: DU) / SMO / time for 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] rApp training) (Cl. 5.1.1.31) O1, R1 E2 Node (O- RSRP measurement per SSB per cell dBm (non-real Measurement: DU) / SMO / time for 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] rApp training) (Cl. 5.1.1.22) O1, R1 E2 Node (O- SINR measurement per SSB per cell dB (non-real Measurement: DU) / SMO / time for 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] rApp training) (Cl. 5.1.1.32) O1, R1 E2 Node (O- Energy consumption kWh (non-real Measurement: DU) / SMO / time for 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] rApp training) (Cl. 5.1.1.19.3) O-FH (M- O-RU / O-DU Power consumed by hardware W (non-real Measurement: Plane) or component time for 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] or O-RU / O-DU / training) (Cl. 5.1.1.19.2) O-FH (M- SMO / rApp Plane), Reporting: O1, R1 O-RAN.WG4.MP (Sec. B.1, B.5) O-FH (M- O-RU / O-DU Transmit power mW (non-real Measurement and Plane) or time for reporting: or O-RU / O-DU / training) O-RAN.WG4.MP O-FH (M- SMO / rApp (Sec. 10.2, B.1, B.2.1) Plane), O1, R1 Input Decision Making / AI/ML Inference: Input Data Interface Source / Target Name/Description Units Reporting Existing / New Period Definitions E2 E2 Node (O- Data Volume in DL delivered from O- Mbit ~ per N x Measurement: DU) / Near-RT CU-UP to O-DU, per PLMN, per QoS 100ms 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] RIC level, per slice, per Interface (F1-U, (Cl. 5.1.3.6.2.3) Xn-U, X2-U). In case of split gNB architecture. Reporting: KPM E2 E2 Node (O- Data Volume in UL delivered to O- Mbit ~ per N x Measurement: DU) / Near-RT CU-UP from O-DU, per PLMN, per 100ms 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] RIC QoS level, per slice, per Interface (F1- (Cl. 5.1.3.6.2.4) U, Xn-U, X2-U). In case of split gNB architecture. Reporting: KPM E2 E2 Node (O- RSRQ measurement per SSB per cell dB ~ per N x Measurement: DU) / Near-RT 100ms 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] RIC (Cl. 5.1.1.31) Reporting: KPM E2 E2 Node (O- RSRP measurement based on SSB per dBm ~ per N x Measurement: DU) / Near-RT UE 100ms 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] RIC (Cl. 5.1.1.22) Reporting: KPM E2 E2 Node (O- SINR measurement based on SSB per dB ~ per N x Measurement: DU) / Near-RT UE 100ms 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] RIC (Cl. 5.1.1.32) Reporting: KPM E2 E2 Node (O- Energy consumption kWh ~ per N x Measurement: DU) / Near-RT 100ms 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] RIC (Cl. 5.1.1.19.3) New reporting: E2 O-FH (M- O-RU / O-DU Power consumed by hardware W ~ per N x Measurement: Plane) component 100ms 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] (Cl. 5.1.1.19.2) Reporting: (Sec. B.1, B.5) O-FH (M- O-RU / O-DU Transmit power mW ~ per N x Measurement and Plane) 100ms reporting: (Sec. 10.2, B.1, B.2.1)

##### 5.2.2.3.3 Detailed Output Requirements
Output Decision Making / AI/ML Inference: Output Data Interface Source / Target Name/Description Units Config. Existing / New Period Definitions E2 Near-RT RIC / Candidate carrier(s) / cells (s) - > min 3GPP TS 28.541 [11] E2 Node (O- recommended for energy saving to (Cl. 4.3.63) CU) enter energySaving state (e.g., 3GPP New configuration: E2 TS 28.310 [8] Sec. 6.2.2) Candidate carrier(s) / cell (s) for - > min - compensation (e.g., 3GPP TS 32.551 [15] compensatingForEnergySaving, optional) E2 E2 Node (O- Confirmation (Success/Failure) - event 3GPP TS 28.310 [8] (Cl. CU) / Near-RT triggered 6.2.2) RIC O-FH (M- E2 Node (O- Updated carrier configuration (i.e. - > min O-RAN.WG4.MP Plane) DU) / O-RU activation, deactivation, or sleep) (Sec. 15.3.2)

## 5.3 Impact Analysis on O-RAN Work Groups
This is an initial impact analysis as part of the WG1 UCTG Network Energy Saving work on Carrier and Cell Switch Off/On use case. The intention is to estimate the expected standardization effort within the O- RAN work groups. It is up to the WGs to decide how Carrier and Cell Switch Off/On use case functionality should be specified in specifications of each WG. # WGs/FGs Spec. No Objective description WG1 (Use O-RAN.WG1.NES-USE-CASES-TR Update WG1 NES use case analysis report and use- case) O-RAN.WG1.Use-Cases-Detailed- case detailed specification with Carrier and Cell Specification Switch Off/On use case. No impact to existing architecture. WG2 O-RAN.WG2.R1GAP Updates to R1 services and procedures for Carrier (Non-RT O-RAN.WG2.R1UCR and Cell Switch Off/On use case RIC, A1, O-RAN.WG2.R1TD (TBD) R1) and its requirements in WG2 UCR specification of Carrier and Cell Switch Off/On use case captured in WG2 UCR specification. WG3 O-RAN.WG3.UCR Specifying 2nd deployment option of Carrier and (Near-RT Cell Switch Off/On use case and its requirements in RIC, E2) WG3 UCR specification NEW: O-RAN.WG3.E2SM-CC 2nd deployment option of Carrier and Cell Switch Off/On use case through E2 Node analysis of ES and EC for 2nd deployment option of Carrier and Cell Switch Off/On use case through Near-RT RIC

# 4 WG4 O-RAN.WG4.MP Review and specify requirements for M-Plane.
(O-FH) Identify and specify relevant impacts on M-Plane for both Hierarchical and hybrid model to accommodate management features requirements towards O-RU. Define O-RU Energy efficiency KPIs and counters. O-RAN-WG4.CUS Review and specify requirements for CUS-Plane. Identify and specify relevant impacts on CUS Plane and data model to support various Tx/Rx Array Carrier Off/On. WG5 O-RAN.WG5.O-DU-O1 Identify specific O-DU operational and data model (O1) O-RAN.WG5.O-CU-O1 aspects of the feature content including the interface SMO and O-CU. Make appropriate changes to the O-DU data model and other WG5 specifications as needed.

# 6 WG10 O-RAN.WG10.O1-Interface Review, identify enhancements and update the Data Models

## 5.4 Relation and Impact on 3GPP Specifications

### 5.4.1 Relation to 3GPP RAN Specifications
Specs Release Title Description TR LTE Study on Potential Study on energy saving for E-UTRAN.

## 36.927 Rel.10 solutions for energy
saving for E-UTRAN TS LTE E-UTRAN; Overall Support of LTE energy saving by cell/carrier off/on switching.

## 36.300 Rel.10 description; Stage 2 The switch-off decision might be taken by the capacity booster
and cell autonomously or may be centrally controlled by OAM. The other eNB may initiate handover with appropriate root cause values specs and thereby inform its neighbour cells about the future switch off. The load of the neighbour cells may also be monitored by load information exchange over X2. Before switching off, all peer eNBs can be informed about the switch off over the X2 interface. For the switch off a Deactivation Indication was added to the ENB CONFIGURATION UPDATE procedure. For switch on a CELL ACTIVATION REQUEST/RESPONSE procedure was introduced in LTE Rel.10. The autonomous switch on decision is more difficult to realize particularly for small cells. Even with high load on the coverage cell, it is not obvious if there are UEs in the vicinity of such small cells. TS LTE E-UTRAN; Overall LTE Rel.11 defined respective S1 messages for Inter-RAT (i.e.

## 36.300 Rel.11 description; Stage 2 GERAN, UMTS) support.
and other specs TR LTE Study on energy saving Study on energy saving enhancements for E-UTRAN.

## 36.887 Rel.12 enhancement for E- UTRAN
TS LTE E-UTRAN; Overall EN-DC CONFIGURATION UPDATE procedure was specified

## 36.300 Rel.15 description; Stage 2 to support LTE-NR Dual Connectivity in the Non-Standalone
and Configurations. other specs TS 5G NR and NG-RAN Support of 5G energy saving by cell/carrier off/on switching.

## 38.300 Rel.15 Overall description; Similar functionality as defined for LTE. E-UTRA or NR cell
and Stage-2 providing additional capacity via single or dual connectivity. other specs

### 5.4.2 Ongoing Work in 3GPP Rel.18 RAN
The following study is conducted in 3GPP Rel.18 in RAN. This includes:
- Definition of a base station energy consumption model
- Definition of an evaluation methodology and KPIs
- Study and identify techniques on the gNB and UE side to improve network energy savings in terms of
both BS transmission and reception Reference Release Title Documentation and impact on Specifications FS_Netw_Energy_NR 5G Rel.18 Study on network Results will be captured in 3GPP TR energy savings for NR 38.864 [19]. While 3GPP RAN WG1 is leading this study item, RAN WG3 will study aspects of information exchange/coordination over network interfaces such as X2/Xn. For this purpose, RAN WG3 also considers Enhanced Carrier/Cell Switch Off/On mechanisms.

### 5.4.3 Impact on 3GPP RAN Specifications
Non-RT or Near-RT RIC controlled Cell Switch Off/On is not considered to have any impact on 3GPP RAN specifications.

### 5.4.4 Relation to 3GPP System Architecture Specifications
Specs Release Title Description TR LTE Study on Energy Study on Energy Savings Management

## 36.927 Rel.10 Savings Management
TS LTE Energy Saving Concepts and requirements for ESM. According to 3GPP TS

## 32.551 Rel.10 Management (ESM); 32.551, the energy saving procedure initiating capacity booster
and Concepts and cell, to enter or exit “energySaving” state, should be able to other requirements initiate energy saving compensation activation and/or specs deactivation on one or multiple cells or network elements. 3GPP TS 32.425 [13] defines the measurements and 3GPP TS 32.451 [14] defines the KPIs. TR LTE Study on OAM aspects Inter-RAT aspects of Energy Saving. The following RATs are

## 32.834 Rel.11 of inter-RAT Energy considered in this study: GSM, UMTS, LTE, CDMA.
Saving TR LTE Study on System Study on System Enhancements for Energy Efficiency

## 23.866 Rel.12 Enhancements for Energy Efficiency
TR 5G Study on OAM support Support for ETSI metrics and methods for energy efficiency

## 32.856 Rel.15 for assessment of assessment and related measurements. Principles for monitoring
energy efficiency in equipment power, energy and environmental parameters. 2G, mobile access 3G and 4G have been covered. networks TS 5G Energy efficiency of This TS defines solutions and requirements for

## 28.310 Rel.16 5G
- Data Volume collection Power,
and
- Power, Energy and Environmental (PEE) measurement
other collection specs
- Energy Saving use cases
The Energy Saving use case defines the scenario of energy saving by switching off capacity booster cells when the traffic demand is low and re-activate them on a need basis. The energy saving consists of two scenarios where the capacity booster cell gNB is fully or partially overlaid by the candidate cell(s). The configuration of energy saving policies for these solutions is defined in 3GPP TS 28.541 [11]. The measurements related to data volume and PEE measurements are defined in 3GPP TS 28.552 [12]. The Energy Efficiency related KPIs are defined in TS 28.554 [7].

### 5.4.5 Ongoing Work in 3GPP Rel.18 System Architecture
Energy saving compensation activation and deactivation procedures for LTE are defined in 3GPP TS 32.551 [15] as:
- Energy saving compensation activation: procedure to increase the coverage area for the candidate
cell(s).
- Energy saving compensation deactivation: procedure to decrease a previously increased coverage area.
This procedure is not defined yet for energy saving procedures for 5G, and hence 3GPP TS 28.310 [8] needs to be enhanced to introduce this procedure for 5G networks. Related study and work items are existing. Reference Release Title Documentation and impact on Specifications FS_EE5G_Ph2 5G Rel.18 Study on new aspects Results will be captured in 3GPP TR of EE for 5G networks 28.913 Study on new aspects of EE Phase 2 for 5G networks phase 2. EE5GPLUS_Ph2 5G Rel.18 Enhancements of EE Specification enhancements are for 5G Phase 2 expected for the following 3GPP specifications: TS 28.310 [8], TS 28.552 [12], TS 28.554 [7] and TS 28.541 [11].

### 5.4.6 Impact on 3GPP System Architecture Specifications
Non-RT or Near-RT RIC controlled Cell Switch Off/On is not considered to have any impact on 3GPP System Architecture specifications.

## 5.5 Gain Analysis
An operator can expect strong energy savings, and thus OPEX savings, by using Carrier/Cell Switching in a network with multiple frequency layers. The exact power saving strongly depends on network deployment details, cell configuration (e.g., configured bandwidth, common channels etc.), used hardware, and network load. Multiple frequency layers may or may not use the same power amplifier in the RF module. Major power savings are naturally obtained when some power amplifiers can be switched off completely. Numerical analysis based on an estimated power saving per carrier / cell to be switched off might provide a good estimate of the expected savings. O-RU power consumption might be categorized into power consumption related to: 1. user channels' load (e.g., traffic on uplink/downlink shared channels), 2. common signals and channels' load (e.g., SSB transmissions, Reference Signals, broadcast channel, paging channel etc.), 3. regular PA operational power (i.e., the required energy to power up the power amplifier), 4. regular operational power (i.e., the required energy to power up the radio module). Power consumption related to (1), (2) and (3) scales with the number of transmission paths as illustrated in Considering that the requested traffic (1) needs to be transmitted in one of the remaining carriers/cells and that regular operational power (4) will be required after carrier/cell switch off, the power savings of the Carrier/Cell Switch algorithm is mainly related to the power consumption of (2) and (3). The yearly energy savings might be calculated as follows: 𝑂-𝑅𝑈 𝑃𝑜𝑤𝑒𝑟𝑆𝑎𝑣𝑖𝑛𝑔[𝑊] 𝑃𝑜𝑤𝑒𝑟𝑆𝑎𝑣𝑖𝑛𝑔𝐻𝑜𝑢𝑟𝑠[ℎ] 𝑌𝑒𝑎𝑟𝑙𝑦𝑃𝑜𝑤𝑒𝑟𝑆𝑎𝑣𝑖𝑛𝑔[𝑀𝑊ℎ]= ∗ ∗#𝑑𝑎𝑦𝑠∗#𝑂-𝑅𝑈𝑠 1.000.000 𝑑𝑎𝑦 Two example calculations, simplifying the factors as cited above and ignoring deployment, cell configuration, hardware specifics and load dependencies, are provided in the table below: Factor Value Value O-RU power savings during switch off 100 W 200 W Number of hours of switch off per day 2 4 Number of O-RUs 10000 20000 Yearly energy saving [MWh] 730 5840 To be more specific considering deployment, cell configuration, antenna type, hardware and load dependencies of the O-RU power consumption, computational analysis results for two example scenarios are provided. The calculations are based on the load profile and the power consumption categorization of O-RU functional blocks as outlined in Annex B. Energy savings gain from Carrier and Cell Switch Off/On would be equivalent to power consumption of the O-RU hardware components that can be shut down or put into energy savings mode during low traffic load. As illustrated in Figure 5.5-2, major energy savings gain would be derived from shutting down RF Processing Unit and Digital Processing Unit (depending on the antenna configuration), while FH Processing Unit, Power Unit and other components would still be fully or partially functioning, and the power consumption would stay more or less consistent during the switching off period.

### 5.5.1 Cell and Carrier Switch Off/On Energy Saving for 4T4R O-RU
The energy saving gain from Carrier and Cell Switch Off/On is analyzed based on the system parameters in provided in Table 5.5.1-2. No. of antennas 4T4R No. of layers 4 Bandwidth 100 MHz Carrier frequency 3.5 GHz Tx power per antenna 30 W Technology 5G NR ORAN Power Unit & Digital RF Total O- Fronthaul other Operating Load (Traffic) Processing Unit Processing RU (W) Processing components (W) Unit (W) Unit (W) (W) Busy hour load 550 10 25 495 20 Low load 200 10 25 145 20 Sleep (Energy Savings State) 50 5~10 0~5 0~15 15~20 Energy saving gain 150~180 0~5 20~25 130~145 0~5 Compared to the low load scenario, energy savings of up to 150~180 W per O-RU can be achieved in the energy saving state. An example calculation for yearly energy saving potential considering a shutdown of

# 10000 O-RUs during 3 hours per day is provided in Table 5.5.1-3.
Factor Value O-RU power savings during switch off (low load) [W] 150~180 Number of hours of switch off per day (50% of low load period) 3 Number of O-RUs 10000 Yearly energy saving [MWh] 1643~1971

### 5.5.2 Cell and Carrier Switch Off/On Energy Saving for 64T64R O-RU
The energy saving gain from Carrier and Cell Switch Off/On is analyzed based on the system parameters in provided in Table 5.5.2-2. No. of antennas 64T64R No. of layers 16 Bandwidth 100 MHz Carrier frequency 3.5 GHz Tx power per antenna 30 W Technology 5G NR ORAN Digital RF Power Supply & Total O- Fronthaul Operating Load (Traffic) Processing Processing other RU (W) Processing Unit Unit (W) Unit (W) components (W) (W) Busy hour load 1100 50 200 800 50 Low load 400 50 200 100 50 Sleep (Energy Savings State) 60~140 30~50 0~20 0~20 30~50 Energy saving gain 260~340 0~20 180~200 80~100 0~20 Compared to the low load scenario, energy savings of 260-340 W per O-RU can be achieved in the energy saving state. Example calculations for yearly energy saving potential considering a shutdown of 10000 O- RUs during 3 hours per day are provided in Table 5.5.2-3. Factor Value O-RU power savings during switch off (low load) [W] 260~340 Number of hours of switch off per day (50% of low load period) 3 Number of O-Rus 10000 Yearly energy saving [MWh] 2847~3723

## 5.6 Feasibility Analysis
No challenges concerning feasibility have been identified during the pre-normative phase.

# 6 RF Channel Reconfiguration

## 6.1 Problem Statement, Solution and Value Proposition
In mobile networks mMIMO antennas are used for beamforming techniques to enhance cell capacity and throughput. In order to achieve beamforming, O-RUs need to concentrate the power amplifiers at the radome by combining radiating elements. At low load, i.e., when the expected traffic volume or number of connected users are lower than the configured threshold, ES can be achieved by reducing the power consumption of O- RUs by switching off certain Tx/Rx arrays. For example, 32 out of 64 Tx/Rx Arrays of an O-RU can be switched off in a digital mMIMO architecture and correspondingly the number of spatial layers and SSBs can be reduced. The procedure (involvement of respective O-RAN interfaces) of the RF Channel Reconfiguration depends on the management architecture model (hybrid or hierarchical) and the deployment option. The reconfiguration decision can be made by an AI/ML model within the inference host deployed at the Non-RT RIC (denoted as deployment Option 1), or at the Near-RT RIC (denoted as deployment option 2). Among others the AI/ML models may include prediction of future traffic, user mobility, and resource usage and may also predict expected energy efficiency enhancements, resource usage, and network performance for different ES optimization states. The main aim of RF Channel Reconfiguration is to perform O-RU Tx/Rx Array selection. However, Tx/Rx Array reselection may require modifying the maximum number of spatial streams, the number of SSB Beams or the O-RU Antenna transmit power. Hence the overall scope of RF Channel Reconfiguration includes the actions listed in Table 6.1-1. Action Name Explanation Possible Implementation Method O-RU Tx/Rx Array O-RU Tx/Rx Array selection means - O-RU reports all supported Tx/Rx Array selection switching off certain Tx/Rx Arrays or selections to O-DU or to SMO via Open Array elements to reduce power FH M-Plane. consumption of O-RU.
- Based on traffic load and user distribution
Reselecting Rx/Tx Arrays may impact the Non-RT/Near RT RIC will optimize cell coverage. Tx/Rx Array selection. Modification of number The maximum number of spatial - O-RU may report the maximum number of SU/MU MIMO spatial streams may depend on the O-RU of supported spatial streams for each streams or data layers Tx/Rx Array selection, and it may be Tx/Rx Array selection. For example, 16 necessary to be modified along with a spatial streams for 64 Tx/Rx and 8 spatial new Tx/Rx Array selection. Layers for 32 Tx/Rx. A reduction of the number of spatial - Based on the traffic load and the user streams without Tx/Rx Array selection distribution the O-RU will be instructed is not excluded as in certain scenarios about the maximum number of spatial the energy consumption of O-RU streams to be used. Hence, the O-RU and/or O-DU may be reduced by and/or O-DU may be able turn off certain turning off certain processing units of processing units that would be required to FPGA/GPUs, by running at a lower processing a higher number of spatial clock speed or turning off CPU/GPU streams. cores along with reduced processing requirements. Modification of the The number of SSB beams may depend - The number of SSB beams is controlled number of SSB beams on the O-RU Tx/Rx Array selection by the O-DU. Hence the O-DU can be and the number of spatial streams. instructed via Non-RT/Near-RT RIC to Hence it may be necessary to adapt the set the number of SSB beams based on number of SSB beams. Tx/Rx Array selection. Modify the O-RU The maximum O-RU total transmit - The O-RU power is configured per Tx Antenna Transmit power power may depend upon the O-RU Array. Hence, the modification may not Tx/Rx Array selection; hence it may be required when O-RU Tx/Rx Array need to be modified along with Tx/Rx selection from 64 Tx/Rx to 32 Tx/Rx. Array selection to compensate for However, if possible, O-RU Tx power reduced coverage in the downlink. can be increased to compensate for reduced coverage.

## 6.2 Architecture/Deployment Options

### 6.2.1 Option 1: Non-RT RIC Deployment
In option 1, decision making, potentially including AI/ML Model Training and Inference, is done at the Non- RT RIC.

#### 6.2.1.1 Description and UML Diagram
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Enable RF Channel Reconfiguration Energy Saving functions in the Goal Network by means of configuration parameter change and actions controlled by Non-RT RIC to enable AI/ML-based solutions. Non-RT RIC acting as inference host for Energy Savings decision making. Actors and Roles E2 Node and O-RU are the subject of action for configuration enforcement. O1 interface connectivity is established between E2 Nodes and SMO. Open FH M-Plane interface is established between E2 Node and O- Assumptions RU or between O-RU and SMO. Network is operational. The operator has set the targets for Energy Saving functions in the Non-RT RIC (rApp). Pre-conditions Capability of O-RU to support various RF Channel Reconfiguration actions. The operator enables the optimization functions for RF Channel Begins when Reconfiguration Energy Saving and E2 Node and O-RU become operational Non-RT RIC initiates specific measurement data collection request Steps 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, through SMO via O1 towards E2 Node or via Open FH M-Plane directly

## 1.4 (M)
towards O-RU for AI/ML model training for Energy Saving optimization E2 Node and O-RU send the configured measurement data to SMO Steps 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, periodically or event based for Non-RT RIC processing. Non-RT RIC

## 2.4 (M)
retrieves data through SMO from E2 Node and from O-RU. Step 3 (M) Non-RT RIC retrieves the collected measurement data for processing. Non-RT RIC trains the AI/ML models with the collected data. Trained AI/ML models are deployed and activated in the Non-RT RIC. Steps 4.1, 4.2, 4.3 Non-RT RIC constantly monitors performance and energy (M) consumption of the E2 Node and the O-RU for inference, such as cell load related and traffic information, EE/EC measurement reports, geolocation information etc. Based on the AI/ML inference, the Non-RT RIC may request the SMO Step 5 (M) to configure E2 Node (O-DU) and execute RF Channel Reconfiguration for ES/EE optimization. SMO instructs E2 Node via O1 to perform the received request(s) from Non-RT RIC Steps 6.1, 6.2, 6.3, i. O-RU Tx/Rx Array selection.

## 6.4 (M) ii. Modify the number of SU/MU MIMO spatial streams or data
layers. iii. Modify the number of SSB beams. iv. Modify O-RU Antenna Transmit power. Non-RT RIC continuously monitors the performance of AI/ML model. If Step 7 (M) energy saving objectives are not achieved, it may decide to initiate fallback mechanism, and/or AI/ML model update or retraining. If E2 Node becomes non-operational or when the operator disables the Ends when optimization functions for Energy Saving. Exceptions None Non-RT RIC continues closed loop monitoring of Energy Saving function for E2 Node and O-RU. Post Conditions E2 Node and O-RU operate using the newly deployed parameters and state. Box "Service Management & \n Orchestration Framework" #gold Box "O-RAN Nodes" #lightpink Else via OFH-MP end Else via OFH-MP End end Node & O-RU) \nenforecement for Energy saving end fallback, re-training) end S ervice M anagem ent O rchestration Fram ew ork C ollection C ontrol N on-R T R IC N ear-R D ata C ollection

## 1.1 O 1 D ata collection request for E nergy S aving
via O F -M P

## 1.3 O 1 D ata collection request for E nergy S aving

## 1.4 O FH -M P D ata collection request

## 2.3 FH M easurem ent D ata C ollection

## 2.4 O 1 M easurem ent C ollection for E nergy S aving

# 3 O 1 D ata R etrieval
D ata A nalysis Training and Inference

## 4.1 AI/M L M odel training

## 4.2 D eploy activate trained AI/M L M odel for inferencing
M onitoring Analysis of E nergy E fficiency

## 4.3 C onsum ption (E 2 N ode O -R U )
A ctor D ecision M aking R equest to prepare and execute R F C hannel R econfiguration 5 enforecem ent for E nergy saving

## 6.1 O 1 R F C hannel R econfiguration enforecem ent for E nergy saving
P erform ance analysis of AI/M L m odel (w ith possible actions, e.g. fallback, re-training) C ollection C ontrol N on-R T R IC N ear-R

# T R

# T R
IC IC E E 2-N 2-N

# O -R A N N odes
ode O

## 1.2 FH D ata collection request

## 6.2 FH U pdated O -R U C onfigurations
ode O -R -R U U

#### 6.2.1.2 O-RAN Entity Roles
1) SMO (including Non-RT RIC) a) Collect necessary cell configurations, performance indicators and measurement reports (e.g., cell load related and traffic information, EE/EC measurement reports, geolocation information) from E2 Node and O-RU, for the purpose of training and inference of AI/ML models that assist in the EE/ES functions. b) Trigger EE/ES AI/ML model training/retraining. c) Deploy, update, and configure EE/ES AI/ML models d) Analyze the data received from E2 Nodes and O-RU to determine RF Channel Reconfiguration actions for EE/ES, i.e., O-RU Tx/Rx Array selection, modification of the number of SSB beams, modification of the O-RU Antenna Transmit power, modification of the number of SU/MU MIMO spatial streams or data layers using AI/ML models. e) Signal updated RF Channel Reconfiguration and execution of optimization actions to E2 Node via O1 Interface. 2) E2 Node a) Report necessary cell configurations, performance indicators, and measurement reports (e.g., cell load related and traffic information, EE/EC measurement reports) to SMO via O1 interface. b) Perform actions required to perform RF Channel Reconfiguration (i.e., O-RU Tx/Rx Array selection, modification of the number of SSB beams, modification of the O-RU Antenna Transmit power, modification of the number of SU/MU MIMO data layers or spatial streams) as part of EE/ES optimization. 3) O-RU a) Report EC and EE related information over Open FH M-Plane to O-DU or alternatively to SMO directly. b) Perform actions required to be performed due to RF Channel Reconfiguration (i.e., O-RU Tx/Rx Array selection, modification of the number of SSB beams, modification of the O-RU Antenna Transmit power, modification of the number of SU/MU MIMO spatial streams or data layers) as part of EE/ES optimization.

#### 6.2.1.3 Input/Output Data Requirements

##### 6.2.1.3.1 Summary
Input Data 1) SMO and E2 Node ➢ Load statistics per cell and per carrier, such as number of active users, average number of RRC connections, average number of scheduled active users per TTI, PRB utilization, DL/UL Cell/User throughput, PMI/CSI reports. ➢ Latency statistics per cell (if URLLC slices are involved, latency is used in the EE definition, 3GPP TS 28.554 [7]). 2) O-RU ➢ Power consumption metrics: Mean total/per carrier power consumption, mean total/per carrier transmit power. ➢ Information on supported Tx/Rx Array selections along with power consumption (site/O-RU input power needed for certain EE KPIs) Output Data 1) SMO to E2 Node ➢ RF Channel Reconfiguration actions which can include, o O-RU Tx/Rx Array selection o Modify the number of SU/MU MIMO spatial streams or data layers o Modify the number of SSB beams o Modify O-RU Antenna Transmit power

##### 6.2.1.3.2 Detailed Input Requirements
Initialization: Input Data Interface Source / Name/Description Units Reporting Existing / New Target Period Definitions R1 SMO / rApp Optimization target for RF Channel - manual or New Reconfiguration event triggered E.g., (average or max) NG-RAN data bit/J 3GPP TS 28.554 [7] Energy Efficiency (Cl. 6.7.1) R1 SMO / rApp Maximum Initial Access Latency for ms Initialization New: KPI metric given SSB Beam Configuration input by the operator O1, R1 O-DU / SMO Carrier/cell characteristics - manual or New / rApp event triggered (e.g., SMO feature activation, E2 Node startup/failure/ reconfig.) E.g., physical location, transmit - 3GPP TS 28.541 [11] direction, carrier frequency, coverage (Cl. 4.3.6, 4.3.38, parameters, configured transmit 4.3.39, 4.3.40, power, beam width, coverage shape, 4.3.74) tilt, azimuth, carrier-cell mapping, carrier-HW mapping O-RAN.WG5.O- DU-O1 (Sec. 10), O- RAN-WG5.O-CU- O1 (Sec. 9) O-FH (M- O-RU / O-DU Supported common beam file Initialization O-RAN.WG5.MP Plane) or configuration from O-RU per cell (Sec. 8.1) or O-RU / O-DU O-FH (M- / SMO / rApp Plane), O1, R1 O-FH (M- O-RU / O-DU Beamforming weights or attributes values Initialization O-RAN.WG4.CUS Plane) via YANG module per cell in IE (Sec. 12.4.2) R1, O1, O- rApp / SMO / Inferred SSB beam configuration in file Initialization O-RAN.WG4.CUS FH (M- O-DU / O-RU specified file per cell (Sec. 12.4.2) Plane) or or O-DU / O-RU O-FH (M- Plane) O1, R1 O-DU / SMO Supported SSB and CSI-RS TRS - Initialization 3GPP TS 38.331 [16] / rApp configurations per cell (Sec. 6.3.2) O-FH (M- O-RU / O-DU O-RU reports all offered Tx/Rx file Initialization New Definition Plane), O1, / SMO / rApp Arrays required in O- R1 RAN.WG5.MP o-ran-uplane- conf.yang module o-ran- beamforming.yang module O-FH (M- O-RU / O-DU O-RU reports all offered Tx/Rx values Initialization New Definition Plane) Arrays in IE required in O- RAN.WG4.MP o-ran-uplane- conf.yang module o-ran- beamforming.yang module AI/ML Model Training: Input Data Interface Source / Target Name/Description Units Reporting Existing / New Period Definitions O1, R1 E2 Node (O- DL PDCP SDU Data Volume per Mbit (non-real Measurement: CU) / SMO / interface (Data Volume in DL time for 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] rApp delivered from O-CU-UP to O-DU, training) (Cl. 5.1.3.6.2.3) per PLMN, per QoS level, per slice, per Interface (F1-U, Xn-U, X2-U)) O1, R1 E2 Node (O- UL PDCP SDU Data Volume per Mbit (non-real Measurement: CU) / SMO / interface (Data Volume in UL time for 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] rApp delivered to O-CU-UP from O-DU, training) (Cl. 5.1.3.6.2.4) per PLMN, per QoS level, per slice, per Interface (F1-U, Xn-U, X2-U)) O1, R1 E2 Node (O- Number of active UEs in NG-RAN Integer (non-real Measurement: CU) / SMO (Number of RRC_CONECTED time for 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] / rApp UEs) per cell training) (Sec. 5.1.1.23, A7, A.60) O1, R1 E2 Node (O- RSRQ measurement per SSB per cell dB (non-real Measurement: CU) / SMO / time for 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] rApp training) (Cl. 5.1.1.31) O1, R1 E2 Node (O- RSRP measurement per SSB per cell dBm (non-real Measurement: CU) / SMO / time for 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] rApp training) (Cl. 5.1.1.22) O1, R1 E2 Node (O- SINR measurement per SSB per cell dB > min Measurement: CU) / SMO / 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] rApp (Cl. 5.1.1.32) O1, R1 E2 Node (O- Energy consumption kWh (non-real Measurement: CU) / SMO / time for 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] rApp training) (Cl. 5.1.1.19.3) O-FH (M- O-RU / O-DU Power consumed by O-RU or its W (non-real Measurement: Plane) or hardware components time for 3GPP TS28.552 [12] or O-RU / O-DU / training) (Cl. 5.1.1.19.2) O-FH (M- SMO / rApp Plane), Reporting: O1, R1 O-RAN.WG4.MP (Sec. B.1, B.5) O1, R1 E2 Node (O- Over the air transmit power by O-RU W (non-real New Measurement and DU) / SMO / as calculated in O-DU time for New Reporting rApp training) required in O- Note: This measurement is required RAN.WG5.MP to calculate energy efficiency of O- RU. Input Decision Making / AI/ML Inference: Input Data Interface Source / Target Name/Description Units Reporting Existing / New Period Definitions O1, R1 E2 Node (O-CU) DL PDCP SDU Data Volume per Mbit > min Measurement: / SMO / rApp interface (Data Volume in DL 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] delivered from O-CU-UP to O-DU, (Cl. 5.1.3.6.2.3) per PLMN, per QoS level, per slice, per Interface (F1-U, Xn-U, X2-U)) O1, R1 E2 Node (O-CU) UL PDCP SDU Data Volume per Mbit > min Measurement: / SMO / rApp interface (Data Volume in UL 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] delivered to O-CU-UP from O-DU, (Cl. 5.1.3.6.2.4) per PLMN, per QoS level, per slice, per Interface (F1-U, Xn-U, X2-U)) O1, R1 E2 Node (O-CU) Number of active UEs in NG-RAN Integer > min Measurement: / SMO / rApp (Number of RRC_CONECTED UEs) 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] per cell (Sec. 5.1.1.23, A.7, A.60) O1, R1 E2 Node (O-CU) RSRQ measurement per SSB per cell dB > min Measurement: / SMO / rApp 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] (Cl. 5.1.1.31) O1, R1 E2 Node (O-CU) RSRP measurement per SSB per cell dBm > min Measurement: / SMO / rApp 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] (Cl. 5.1.1.22) O1, R1 E2 Node (O-CU) SINR measurement per SSB per cell dB > min Measurement: / SMO / rApp 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] (Cl. 5.1.1.32) O1, R1 E2 Node (O-CU) Energy consumption kWh (non-real Measurement: / SMO / rApp time for 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] training) (Cl. 5.1.1.19.3) O-FH (M- O-RU / O-DU Power consumed by O-RU or its W (non-real Measurement: Plane) or hardware components time for 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] or O-RU / O-DU / training) (Cl. 5.1.1.19.2) O-FH (M- SMO / rApp Reporting: Plane), O1, R1 (Sec. B.1, B.5) O1, R1 E2 Node (O-DU) Over the air transmit power by O-RU W (non-real New Measurement and / SMO / rApp as calculated in O-DU time for New Reporting training) required in O- Note: This measurement is required RAN.WG5.MP to calculate energy efficiency of O- RU.

##### 6.2.1.3.3 Detailed Output Requirements
Output Decision Making / AI/ML Inference: Output Data Interface Source / Target Name/Description Units Reporting Existing / New Period Definitions O-FH (M- O-DU / O-RU Candidate O-RU’s appropriate array - > min O-RAN.WG4.MP Plane) selection o-ran-uplane-conf.yang Maximum number of Max SU/MU - > min New Definition required MIMO spatial streams or data layers in O-RAN.WG4.MP Recommended O-RU Antenna W > min O-RAN.WG4.MP Transmit power urn:o-ran:uplane-conf Module gain R1, O1 rApp / SMO Candidate O-RU’s appropriate array - > min New Definition required / O-DU selection in WG2 R1 and O- RAN.WG5.O-DU-O1 Maximum number of Max SU/MU - > min New Definition required MIMO spatial streams or data layers in O-RAN.WG4.MP Inferred O-RU SS Burst Set (SS Block - Initialization 3GPP TS 38.331 [16] Number and SS Burst Periodicity) and IE: CSI-RS TRS Configuration ServingCellConfigCom mon Recommended O-RU Antenna W > min O-RAN.WG4.MP Transmit power urn:o-ran:uplane-conf Module gain O1, R1 E2 Node (O- Confirmation (Success/Failure) - event New DU) / SMO triggered / rApp

### 6.2.2 Option 2: Near-RT RIC Deployment
In option 2, decision making, potentially using AI/ML Model Inference, is done at Near-RT RIC. While AI/ML Model training might be hosted in the Non-RT or in the Near-RT RIC, the description below is based on AI/ML Model Training in the Non-RT RIC.

#### 6.2.2.1 Description and UML Diagram
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Enable RF Channel Reconfiguration Energy Saving functions in the Network Goal by means of configuration parameter change and actions controlled by Near- RT RIC and allow for AI/ML-based solutions. Near-RT RIC acting as inference host for Energy Savings decision making. E2 Node and O-RU are the subject of action for configuration enforcement. Actors and Roles SMO/Non-RT RIC acting as policy maker or trigger for ES optimization in Near-RT RIC. O1 interface connectivity is established between E2 Node, Near-RT RIC, and SMO. E2 interface connectivity is established between E2 Node and Near-RT RIC. Assumptions A1 interface is established between Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC. Open FH M-Plane interface is established between E2 Node and O-RU or between O-RU and SMO. Network is operational. The operator has set the targets for the Energy Saving function in the Non- Pre-conditions RT RIC (rApp). Capability of O-RU for various RF Channel Reconfiguration actions. Operator enables the optimization functions for RF Channel Reconfiguration Begins when Energy Saving and E2 Node and O-RU become operational. Steps 1.1,1.2, 1.3 SMO initiates specific measurement data collection request towards E2 (M) Node and O-RU for AI/ML model training for Energy Saving optimization. Steps 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, E2 Node and O-RU send the configured measurement data to SMO

## 2.4 (M) periodically or event based for Non-RT RIC processing.
Step 3 (M) Non-RT RIC retrieves the collected measurement data for processing. Non-RT RIC trains the AI/ML models with the collected data. Trained AI/ML models are deployed and activated in Near-RT RIC through SMO over O1 or Steps 4.1, 4.2, 4.3 O2 Interface. (M) Non-RT RIC constantly monitors performance and energy consumption of the E2 Node and the O-RU for inference, such as cell load related and traffic information, EE/EC measurement reports, geolocation information etc. SMO may trigger RF Channel Reconfiguration in the Near-RT RIC via O1 Steps 5.1, 5.2 (M) interface or optionally Non-RT RIC may provide policies via A1 interface guiding the Near-RT RIC RF Channel Reconfiguration EE/ES function. Based on the AI/ML inference in Near-RT RIC, considering optimization policies, the Near-RT RIC may request the E2 Node to prepare and execute RF Channel Reconfiguration. E2 Node may request O-RU to prepare and execute RF Channel Steps 6.1, 6.2, 6.3, Reconfiguration changes such as, 6.4, 6.5, 6.6 (M) i. O-RU Tx/Rx Array selection ii. Modification of the number of SU/MU MIMO spatial streams or data layers. iii. Modification of the number of SSB beams. iv. Modification of the O-RU Antenna Transmit power. Based on performance analysis of AI/ML model, Non-RT RIC may update Steps 7.1, 7.2 (M) AIML model in Near-RT RIC. E2 Node becomes non-operational or when the operator disables the Ends when optimization functions for Energy Saving. Exceptions None Non-RT RIC continues closed loop monitoring of Energy Saving function for E2 Node and O-RU. Post Conditions E2 Node and O-RU operate using the newly deployed parameters/models and state. skin rose Box "Service Management & \n Orchestration Framework" #gold Box "O-RAN Nodes" #lightpink Else via OFH-MP end Else via OFH-MP End end Nodes & O-RU)(s end else via A1 end fallback, re-training) end Service M anagem ent O -R AN N odes O rchestration Fram ew ork C ollection C ontrol Non-R T R IC Near-R T R IC E2-Nodes O -R D ata C ollection

## 1.1 O 1 D ata collection request for Energy Saving

## 1.2 FH D ata collection request
via O F -M P

## 1.3 O FH-M P D ata collection request

## 2.3 FH M easurem ent D ata C ollection

## 2.4 O 1 M easurem ent C ollection for Energy Saving

# 3 O 1 D ata R etrieval
AI/M L w orkflow

## 4.1 AI/M L M odel training
M onitoring Analysis of Energy Efficicincy 4.2 C onsum ption (E2 Nodes O -R U)(s

## 4.3 O 1 or O 2 D eploy AI/M L m odel

## 5.1 O 1 O ptim ization Trigger/Target
via A1

## 5.2 A1 Intent based Policy
Actor D ata C ollection D ecision M aking

## 6.1 E2 D ata collection request for Energy Saving

## 6.2 FH D ata collection request for Energy Saving

## 6.3 FH M easurem ent D ata C ollection for Energy Saving

## 6.4 E2 M easurem ent D ata C ollection for Energy Saving

## 6.5 AI/M L m odel inference
E2 R F C hannel R econfiguration 6.6 enforecem ent for Energy saving 6. FH Updated O -R U C onfigurations AI/M L w orkflow Perform ance analysis of AI/M L m odel 6.1 (w ith possible actions, e.g. fallback, re-training)

## 6.2 O 1 or O 2 Update AI/M L m odel
C ollection C ontrol Non-R T R IC Near-R T R IC E2-Nodes O -R Us Us

#### 6.2.2.2 O-RAN Entity Roles
1) SMO (including Non-RT RIC) a) Collect necessary cell configurations, performance indicators and measurement reports (e.g., cell load related and traffic information, EE/EC measurement reports, geolocation information) from E2 Node and O-RU, for the purpose of training AI/ML models that assist in the EE/ES functions. b) Trigger and perform EE/ES AI/ML model training/retraining. c) Analyze the data received from E2 Node and O-RU to trigger optimization for RF Channel Reconfiguration. d) Provide optimization trigger, optimization targets, and A1 policies (e.g., change of Tx/Rx Array Selection based on 50 % peak power consumptions) to Near-RT RIC via O1 or A1 interface. 2) Near-RT RIC a) Collect necessary cell configurations, performance indicators and measurement reports (e.g., cell load related and traffic information, EE/EC measurement reports) from E2 Nodes and O-RU. b) Receive EE/ES AI/ML model for deployment via O1 or O2. c) Receive EE/ES related configuration management via O1 interface and/or policies via A1 interface for consideration during optimization. d) Analyze the data received from E2 Node and perform AI/ML model inference to determine RF Channel Reconfiguration actions for EE/ES (e.g., O-RU Tx/Rx Array Selection, modification of the number of SSB beams, modification of the O-RU Antenna Transmit power, modification of the number of SU/MU MIMO spatial streams or data layers) to be performed considering the optimization targets/policies. e) Provide policies and/or required information over E2 interface to trigger actions for EE/ES optimization. 3) E2 Node a) Report necessary cell configurations, performance indicators and measurement reports (e.g., cell load related and traffic information, EE/EC measurement reports) to SMO via O1 interface and to Near-RT RIC via E2 or O1 Interface. b) Perform O-RU Tx/Rx Array Selection, modification of the number of SSB beams, modification of the O-RU Antenna Transmit power, modification of the number of SU/MU MIMO spatial streams or data layers as part of RF Channel Reconfiguration actions for EE/ES optimization. 4) O-RU a) Report EC and EE related information over Open FH M-Plane interface to O-DU or alternatively to SMO directly. b) Perform actions required to perform O-RU RF Channel Reconfiguration as part of EE/ES optimization. c) Perform actions such as O-RU Tx/Rx Array Selection, modification of the number of SSB beams, modification of the O-RU Antenna Transmit power, modification of the number of SU/MU MIMO spatial streams or data layers as part of RF Channel Reconfiguration actions for EE/ES optimization.

#### 6.2.2.3 Input/Output Data Requirements

##### 6.2.2.3.1 Summary
Input Data 1) SMO and E2 Node ➢ Load statistics per cell and per carrier, such as number of active users, average number of RRC connections, average number of scheduled active users per TTI, PRB utilization, DL/UL Cell/User throughput, PMI/CSI reports. ➢ Latency statistics per cell (if URLLC slices are involved, latency is used in the EE definition, 3GPP TS 28.554 [7]). 2) O-RU ➢ Power consumption metrics: Mean total/per carrier power consumption, mean total/per carrier transmit power. ➢ Information of O-RU for supported Tx/Rx Array selection along with power consumption (site/O-RU input power needed for certain EE KPIs). Output Data 1) Non-RT RIC to Near RT RIC ➢ O1 Configuration (i.e., ES optimization trigger/target) OR ➢ A1 Policy for ES optimization 2) Near-RT RIC to E2 Node to O-RU ➢ RF Channel Reconfiguration actions which can include, o O-RU Tx/Rx Array selection o Modification of the number of SU/MU MIMO spatial streams or data layers o Modification of the number of SSB beams o Modification of the O-RU Antenna Transmit power

##### 6.2.2.3.2 Detailed Input Requirements
Initialization: Input Data Interface Source / Target Name/Description Units Reporting Existing / New Period Definitions O1 SMO / Near-RT EE Optimization target for RF manual or New RIC Channel Re-configuration event triggered E.g., (average or max) NG-RAN data bit/J 3GPP TS 28.554 [7] Energy Efficiency (Cl. 6.7.1) O1 SMO / Near-RT Maximum Initial Access Latency for ms Initialization New: KPI metric RIC given SSB Beam Configuration input by the operator E2, O1, E2 Node (O- Carrier/cell characteristics - manual or New R1 DU) / Near-RT event triggered RIC / SMO (e.g., SMO / rApp feature activation, E2 Node startup/failure/ reconfig.) E.g., physical location, transmit - 3GPP TS 28.541 [11] direction, carrier frequency, coverage (Cl. 4.3.6, 4.3.38, parameters, configured transmit 4.3.39, 4.3.40, power, beam width, coverage shape, 4.3.74) tilt, azimuth, carrier-cell mapping, carrier-HW mapping O-FH (M- O-RU / O-DU Supported common beam file Initialization O-RAN.WG5.MP Plane) configuration from O-RU per cell (Chapter 8) E2 O-DU / Near- Supported SSB and CSI-RS TRS - Initialization 3GPP TS 38.331 [16] RT RIC configurations per cell (Sec. 6.3.2) O-FH (M- O-RU / O-DU / O-RU reports all offered Tx/Rx file Initialization New Definition Plane), SMO / rApp Arrays required in O- O1, R1 RAN.WG5.MP o-ran-uplane- conf.yang module o-ran- beamforming.yang module O-FH (M- O-RU / O-DU O-RU reports all offered Tx/Rx values Initialization New Definition Plane) Arrays in IE required in O- RAN.WG4.MP o-ran-uplane- conf.yang module o-ran- beamforming.yang module AI/ML Model Training: Input Data Interface Source / Name/Description Units Reporting Existing/New Target Period Definitions O1, R1 E2 Node (O- DL PDCP SDU Data Volume per Mbit (non-real Measurement: CU) / SMO interface (Data Volume in DL delivered time for 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] / rApp from O-CU-UP to O-DU, per PLMN, training) (Cl. 5.1.3.6.2.3) per QoS level, per slice, per Interface (F1-U, Xn-U, X2-U)) O1, R1 E2 Node (O- UL PDCP SDU Data Volume per Mbit (non-real Measurement: CU) / SMO interface (Data Volume in UL delivered time for 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] / rApp to O-CU-UP from O-DU, per PLMN, training) (Cl. 5.1.3.6.2.4) per QoS level, per slice, per Interface (F1-U, Xn-U, X2-U)) O1, R1 E2 Node (O- Number of active UEs in NG-RAN Integer (non-real Measurement: CU) / SMO (Number of RRC_CONECTED UEs) time for 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] / rApp per cell training) (Sec. 5.1.1.23, A.7, A.60) O1, R1 E2 Node (O- RSRQ measurement per SSB per cell dB (non-real Measurement: CU) / SMO time for 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] / rApp training) (Cl. 5.1.1.31) O1, R1 E2 Node (O- RSRP measurement per SSB per cell dBm (non-real Measurement: CU) / SMO time for 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] / rApp training) (Cl. 5.1.1.22) O1, R1 E2 Node (O- SINR measurement per SSB per cell dB > min Measurement: CU) / SMO 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] / rApp (Cl. 5.1.1.32) O1, R1 E2 Node (O- Energy consumption kWh (non-real Measurement: DU) / SMO time for 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] / rApp training) (Cl. 5.1.1.19.3) O-FH (M- O-RU / O-DU Power consumed by O-RU or its W (non-real Measurement: Plane) or hardware components time for 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] or O-RU / O-DU training) (Cl. 5.1.1.19.2) O-FH (M- / SMO / rApp Reporting: Plane), O1, R1 (Sec. B.1, B.5) O1, R1 E2 Node (O- Over the air Transmit power by O-RU W (non-real New Measurement and DU) / SMO time for New Reporting Note: This measurement is required to / rApp training) required in O- calculate energy efficiency of O-RU. RAN.WG5.MP O1, R1 E2 Node (O- Number of active UEs in NG-RAN Integer (non-real Measurement: CU) / SMO (Number of RRC_CONECTED UEs) time for 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] / rApp per cell training) (Sec. 5.1.1.23, A.7, A.60) Input Decision Making / AI/ML Inference: Input Data Interface Source / Target Name/Description Units Reporting Existing / New Period Definitions E2 E2 Node (O- DL PDCP SDU Data Volume per Mbit per N x Measurement: CU) / Near-RT interface (Data Volume in DL 100ms 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] RIC delivered from O-CU-UP to O-DU, per (Cl. 5.1.3.6.2.3) PLMN, per QoS level, per slice, per Interface (F1-U, Xn-U, X2-U)) E2 E2 Node (O- UL PDCP SDU Data Volume per Mbit per N x Measurement: CU) / Near-RT interface (Data Volume in UL 100ms 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] RIC delivered to O-CU-UP from O-DU, per (Cl. 5.1.3.6.2.4) PLMN, per QoS level, per slice, per Interface (F1-U, Xn-U, X2-U)) E2 E2 Node (O- Number of active UEs in NG-RAN Integer per N x Measurement: CU) / Near-RT (Number of RRC_CONECTED UEs) 100ms 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] RIC per cell (Sec. 5.1.1.23, A.7, A.60) E2 E2 Node (O- PRACH correlation power for every dBm per N x New Measurement and DU) / Near-RT received PRACH corresponding to 100ms New Reporting: The RIC each active SSB Beam Index measurement at O-DU may be delivered E2 E2 Node (O- RSRQ measurement per SSB per cell dB per N x Measurement: CU) / Near-RT 100ms 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] RIC (Cl. 5.1.1.31) E2 E2 Node (O- RSRP measurement per SSB per cell dBm per N x Measurement: CU) / Near-RT 100ms 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] RIC (Cl. 5.1.1.22) E2 E2 Node (O- SINR measurement per SSB per cell dB per N x Measurement: CU) / Near-RT 100ms 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] RIC (Cl. 5.1.1.32) E2 E2 Node (O- Energy consumption kWh (non-real Measurement: CU) / Near-RT time for 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] RIC training) (Cl. 5.1.1.19.3) O-FH (M- O-RU / O-DU Power consumed by O-RU or its W (non-real Measurement: Plane) or hardware components time for 3GPP TS 28.552 [12] or O-RU / O-DU / training) (Cl. 5.1.1.19.2) O-FH (M- Near-RT RIC Reporting: Plane), E2 (Sec. B.1, B.5) E2 E2 Node (O- Over the air Transmit power by O-RU W (non-real New Measurement and DU) / Near-RT time for New Reporting Note: This measurement is required to RIC training) required in O- calculate energy efficiency of O-RU. RAN.WG5.MP

##### 6.2.2.3.3 Detailed Output Requirements
Output Decision Making / AI/ML Inference: Output Data Interface Source / Target Name/Description Units Reporting Existing / New Period Definitions O-FH (M- O-DU / O-RU Candidate O-RU’s appropriate Array - > min O-RAN.WG4.MP Plane) selection o-ran-uplane-conf.yang Maximum number of Max SU/MU - > min New Definition required MIMO spatial streams or data layers in O-RAN.WG4.MP Recommended O-RU Antenna - > min O-RAN.WG4.MP Transmit power urn:o-ran:uplane-conf Module gain E2 Near-RT RIC / Candidate O-RU’s appropriate Array - > min New Definition required O-DU selection in WG2 R1 and O- RAN.WG5.O-DU-O1 Maximum number of Max SU/MU - > min New Definition required MIMO spatial streams or data layers in O-RAN.WG4.MP Inferred O-RU SS Burst Set (SS Block - Initialization 3GPP TS 38.331 [16] Number and SS Burst Periodicity) and IE: CSI-RS TRS Configuration ServingCellConfigCom mon Recommended O-RU Antenna - > min O-RAN.WG4.MP Transmit power urn:o-ran:uplane-conf Module gain E2 E2 Node (O- Confirmation (Success/Failure) - event New DU) / Near-RT triggered RIC

## 6.3 Impact Analysis on O-RAN Work Groups
This is an initial impact analysis as part of the WG1 UCTG Network Energy Saving work on RF Channel Reconfiguration use case. The intention is to estimate the expected standardization effort within the O-RAN work groups. It is up to the WGs to decide how RF Channel Reconfiguration functionality should be specified in specifications of each WG. # WGs/FGs Spec. No Objective description WG1 (Use O-RAN.WG1.NES-USE-CASES-TR Update WG1 NES use case analysis report and use- case) O-RAN.WG1.Use-Cases-Detailed- case detailed specification with RF Channel Specification Reconfiguration use case. No impact to existing architecture WG2 O-RAN.WG2.R1GAP Updates to R1 services and procedures for RF (Non-RT O-RAN.WG2.R1UCR Channel Reconfiguration use case RIC, A1, O-RAN.WG2.R1TD (TBD) R1) Reconfiguration use cases and generate corresponding A1 policies/updates of O1 and O2- related services via R1 interface, if any. and its requirements in WG2 UCR specification Channel Reconfiguration use case captured in document.

# 3 WG3 O-RAN.WG3.UCR Specifying RF Channel Reconfiguration use case
(Near-RT and its requirements in WG3 UCR specification RIC, E2) NEW: O-RAN.WG3.E2SM-CC RF Channel Reconfiguration use case specially modifying mMIMO layer, Power, Tx/Rx Array selections, number of SSB Beams through E2 Node towards O-RU. analysis of ES and EC for RF Channel Reconfiguration optimization through Near-RT RIC WG4 O-RAN.WG4.MP Identify the relevant impacts on M-Plane for both (O-FH) Hierarchical and hybrid model to accommodate Impact management features requirements towards O-RU. Define O-RU Energy efficiency KPIs and counters. O-RAN-WG4.CUS Identify the relevant impacts on CUS-Plane and data model to support various Tx/Rx Array selections. WG5 O-RAN.WG5.O-DU-O1 Identify specific O-DU operational and data model (O1) O-RAN.WG5.O-CU-O1 aspects of the feature content including the interface Impact O-RAN.WG5.MP between SMO and -O-DU, and the one between SMO and O-CU. Make appropriate changes to the O-DU data model and other WG5 specifications as needed. WG7 - WG7 needs to provide reference architecture of O- RU which supports Tx/Rx Array selection. Study energy savings gains from Tx/Rx array selection including limiting maximum number of layers. WG10 O-RAN.WG10.O1-Interface Identify the relevant impacts on O1 interface to Data Models

## 6.4 Relation and Impact on 3GPP Specifications
3GPP RAN does a Rel.18 study on network energy savings for NR (i.e. FS_Netw_Energy_NR, see Sec. 5.4.2 for details). Within this study 3GPP RAN WGs consider related techniques such as RU Tx/Rx array selection, modification of number of SSB beams, adaptation of RU transmit power etc.

## 6.5 Gain Analysis
The potential of energy savings from RF Channel Reconfiguration is dependent upon several factors such as network deployment, traffic pattern/load, user distribution, antenna type and specific O-RU architecture etc. Computational analysis results for two example scenarios, one for 4T4R O-RU and one for 64T64R O-RU, are provided below. The calculations are based on the load profile and the power consumption categorization of O-RU functional blocks as outlined in Annex B. Energy savings gain from RF Channel Reconfiguration would be equivalent to power consumption of the O- RU hardware components that can be shut down or put into energy savings mode when the number of active antennas is reduced. As illustrated in Figure 6.5-1, energy savings gain would mostly be derived from partial shutdown of the RF Processing Unit and Digital Processing Unit (depending on the antenna configuration), while other functional modules such as O-RAN Fronthaul Processing Unit, Power Supply Unit and some other components would still be fully or partially functioning, and the power consumptions would be more or less consistent irrespective of the number of active antennas.

### 6.5.1 RF Channel Reconfiguration ES Gain Analysis for 4T4R O-RU
When the traffic load is low, a 4T4R O-RU might be scaled down to 2T2R such that some part of the RF components in the O-RU might be switched off to save energy. When scaling down from 4T4R to 2T2R, RF Processing Unit for the two RF channels to be switched off might be shut down as illustrated in Figure 6.5.1- 1. The energy saving gain from reducing the number of RF channels from 4T4R to 2T2R is analyzed based on the system parameters in Table 6.5.1-1 and the example O-RU power profile considering power consumption from operational experience provided in Table 6.5.1-2. No. of antennas 4T4R No. of layers 4 Bandwidth 100 MHz Carrier frequency 3.5 GHz Tx power per array element 30 W Technology 5G NR Operating Load Configuration Total O- ORAN Digital RF Power Unit (Traffic) RU (W) Fronthaul Processing Processing & other Processing Unit (W) Unit (W) components Unit (W) (W) Busy hour Load 4T4R 550 10 25 495 20 Low load 4T4R 200 10 25 145 20 Low load 2T2R 120 8 20 75 17 RF Channel Reconfiguration ES Mode Maximum energy 2T2R vs. 4T4R 80 2 5 70 3 saving gain (low load) Compared to the low load scenario, a maximum energy savings of up to 80 W per O-RU can be achieved. Achievable energy savings might be lower and might vary in practice. Besides an impact on receive signal quality and spectral efficiency, also coverage and beam characteristics will be affected. A lower spectral efficiency may for instance increase overall transmission time of the active UEs when transmitting a packet. An example calculation for yearly energy saving potential considering a shutdown of 10000 O-Rus during 3 hours per day is provided in Table 6.5.1-3. Factor Value RU power savings during RF channel switch off (low load) [W] 80 Number of hours of switch off per day (50% of low load period) 3 Number of O-RUs 10000 Yearly energy saving [MWh] 876

### 6.5.2 RF Channel Reconfiguration ES Gain Analysis for 64T64R O-RU
The energy saving gain from RF Channel Reconfiguration of a 64T64R O-RU to 32T32R is analyzed based on the system parameters in Table 6.5.2-1 and the example O-RU power profile considering power consumption from operational experience provided in Table 6.5.2-2. Normal Mode RF Channel Reconfiguration ES Configuration 64T64R 32T32R No. of layers 16 8 Bandwidth 100 MHz 100 MHz Carrier frequency 3.5 GHz 3.5 GHz Tx power per array element 3 W 3 W Total O-RU ORAN Operating O-RU RF Digital RF Power Supply & Power Fronthaul Load Channel Processing Processing other Consumption Processing (Traffic) Configuration Unit (W) Unit (W) components (W) (W) Unit (W) Busy hour 64T64R 1120 50 200 800 70 load Low load 64T64R 520 50 200 200 70 32T32R RF Channel Low load 290 35 100 100 55 Reconfiguration ES Mode Maximum 64T64R vs. energy 32T32R 230 15 100 100 15 saving gain (low load) Compared to the low load scenario, a maximum energy saving gain of up to 230 W per O-RU can be achieved. As stated before, the achievable energy savings might be lower and might vary in practice. An example calculation for yearly energy saving potential considering a shutdown of 10000 O-RUs during 3 hours per day is provided in Table 6.5.2-3. Factor Value RU power savings during RF channel switch off (low load) [W] 230 Number of hours of switch off per day (50% of low load period) 3 Number of O-RUs 10000 Yearly energy saving [MWh] 2519

## 6.6 Feasibility Analysis

### 6.6.1 Continuous operation during RF Channel Reconfiguration
Changing configuration of O-RU such as shutting down 32 TRX of the 64TRX for the purpose of energy savings may impact the existing users if it requires full or partial reset of O-RU, hence care should be exercised on how the reconfiguration of antenna array is performed.

### 6.6.2 Impact on Coverage
The coverage during TRX switch should be maintained as much as possible. A reduction of transceiver chains may impact the number of transmitted SSB beams, the beam shapes, as well as the overall transmit power, affecting the various downlink physical channels. A limited coverage might result in reduced user throughput, radio link failures, beam failures, and call drops.

### 6.6.3 Impact and Relation to UE specific Base Station Algorithms

# A TRX switch might impact the cell coverage and the beam characteristics. This sudden change in radio
channel characteristics might affect UE specific base station algorithms (e.g., inner and outer loop link adaptation, power control, beam selection, adaptive MIMO, channel quality reporting etc.) and may result in a transitory phase until transmission can be continued or is stabilized. It is up to the proprietary scheduler algorithm to handle such events most efficiently. Scheduling (e.g. user selection, resource allocation), adaptive MIMO (e.g. MIMO mode, spatial streams and layers) and link adaptation (e.g. Coding/Modulation Scheme, transmit power) will be adjusted instantaneously every scheduling instance and transmission time interval by the base station without time constrained external control.

### 6.6.4 Limited O-RU / O-DU Capabilities
The capabilities of the O-RU in terms of configurable antenna arrays, transition times, as well as the capabilities of the O-DU scheduling respective antenna arrays with the various MIMO transmission modes may be limited. Hence, respective capabilities are required to be known. The capabilities between the different array configurations may differ significantly in terms of supported SU/MU MIMO modes as well as in terms of supported MIMO layers, streams etc.

# 7 Advanced Sleep Mode Selection

## 7.1 Problem Statement, Solution and Value Proposition
This Use Case describes a method to achieve intelligent energy saving by optimizing the sleep mode via RIC-based guidance. Background O-RU and E2 Nodes (O-CU, O-DU) may implement various Sleep Modes (SMs). The SMs are enabled by Non-RT RIC/SMO and/or Near-RT RIC. When enabled, the E2 Nodes select among the SMs considering their capabilities, the actual traffic situation, and the network conditions. Different SM operate at different time scales (e.g., symbol, slot, frame). Problem Statement In a single vendor network where components are not disaggregated, the O-RU's capabilities are well-known within the E2 Node, allowing for autonomous execution of sleep modes. However, implementing sleep modes in O-RAN requires the O-DU and O-CU to understand the sleep mode capabilities of the O-RU, including the number and depth of sleep modes. Also, Near/Non-Real-Time RIC need to be aware of the O- DU and O-CU capabilities to drive policies related to sleep modes. For optimization, O-RU and O-DU need to report energy efficiency related measurements and KPIs from which the power saving can be observed. To achieve this, effective communication and coordination between all components is necessary. Solution In this solution the O-RU will expose its SM capabilities to the O-DU in the initial configuration phase. Next, the O-DU will expose a set of commonly supported SMs to the SMO (over O1) and Non-RT RIC (via SMO and R1) and/or the Near-RT RIC (over E2) which is available for utilization during operation. Information exposed towards the Non-RT and/or Near-RT RIC will include a unique identifier of each SM, and additional operational parameters, e.g., minimum duration of activation, transition times between SMs, whether to be applied on UL/DL, etc. Moreover, the Non-RT RIC and/or Near-RT RIC will collect for the different SMs data related to network load and performance, cell configuration, and energy/power consumption. Based on the above two sets of information the Non-RT RIC and/or Near-RT RIC train an ML model, which will infer optimized SM utilization range (i.e., a set of SMs the O-DU may dynamically select from at a given or pre-defined time), which is then transmitted to the O-DU as a guidance. Based on the optimized (allowed) SM utilization range, O-DU will select specific SMs. Depending on the SMs, O-RU and O-DU may apply such SM selection internally or O-RU may apply a SM based on O-DU request. For instance, O-RU may (or may not) apply a micro sleep internally, while O-DU may (or may not) internally adjust its scheduling strategy to maximize possible O-RU micro sleep periods considering O RU SM capabilities. Energy saving is thus obtained during regular operation when O-DU schedules data in a more optimized way. O-DU may for example prioritize time-domain scheduling over frequency domain scheduling or may compress data transmission to increase the number of symbols or slots without data. O-DU cannot enforce the O-RU to apply its micro sleep due to the fast internal operation and Near-RT RIC may not be able to enforce O-DU to adjust its internal scheduling strategy. The energy saving gains can be observed by monitoring respective Energy Efficiency KPIs. In the alternative on request operation, O-DU may for instance configure the O-RU to switch off a certain part of the O-RU to support a deep sleep operation considering the timing constraints as communicated during the capability exchange. Energy saving is thus obtained when O-RU applies a new configuration as requested by O-DU. Value Proposition Firstly, the Non-RT RIC and/or Near-RT RIC based AI/ML algorithm may extend the time period or increase the granularity during which the E2 Nodes are allowed to select from their implemented SMs. Secondly, this solution allows for an optimized SMs selection in a multi-vendor O-RU/O-DU deployment, by the O-RU/O-DU exposing the required information as part of their SM capabilities.

## 7.2 Architecture/Deployment Options

### 7.2.1 Option 1: Training and Inference in Non-RT RIC
In this deployment option, the Non-RT RIC retrieves the E2 Node SM capabilities over O1 and R1 via SMO, collects the necessary data from the E2 Nodes and trains an ML model, which is then deployed in the rApp. Inference of the optimized SM utilization range is provided as guidance by the rApp. Additionally, external parties (such as prediction rApps or external application servers) may provide additional information for optimization.

#### 7.2.1.1 Description and UML Diagram
Table .2.1.1-1: Advanced Sleep Mode Selection: Training and Inference in Non-RT RIC <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Provide optimized SM utilization range as guidance to the O-DU and allow Goal for optimized SM selection in O-DU / O-RU.
- SMO/Non-RT RIC: Retrieval of E2 Node SM capabilities.
- SMO/Non-RT RIC: Data collection for ML model training and ML
model deployment.
- Non-RT RIC: Network data collection and analysis, and inference of
Actors and Roles SM utilization range guidance provided to O-DU.
- O-DU: Expose common O-DU/O-RU SM capabilities over O1.
- O-RU: Expose SM related capabilities to O-DU.
- (Optional) Additional parties: Providing additional data for optimization.
- O-RU and O-DU expose the necessary information about their
Assumptions available SMs capabilities. Pre- conditions - All relevant functions and components are instantiated and available. The operator has enabled or has set targets for SM utilization guidance Begins when rApp. O-RU transmits to O-DU its SM capabilities. O-DU decides on a common Step 1.1, 1.2 (M) set of O-DU/O-RU SM capabilities to utilize during operation. O-DU transmits information about the available O-DU/O-RU SM capabilities Step 1.3 (M) to Non-RT RIC/SMO, including minimal operational information. Step 2.1, 2.2 (M), 2.3 Data collection request from SMO to E2 Nodes (M) and external entities (O) (O) for training and inference. Step 2.4, 2.5 (M), 2.6 Data collection from E2 Nodes (M) and external entities (O) for training in (O) SMO/Non-RT RIC. Step 2.7 (M) Non-RT RIC retrieves data for training and inference. Based on continuous/periodically collected data, Non-RT RIC trains the Step 3.1, 3.2, 3.3 (M) AI/ML model and deploys it. Non-RT RIC performs inference using the AI/ML model. Step 4.1 (M) Non-RT RIC provides SM utilization guidance via SMO and O1 to O-DU. O-DU considers Non-RT RIC’s SM utilization guidance in its updated Step 4.2, 4.3 (O), scheduling strategy and O-RU applies SM selection internally. Based on Non-RT RIC’s SM utilization guidance, O-DU alternatively selects Step 4.4, 4.5, 4.6 (O) a SM, O-DU requests a new SM configuration by O-RU over O-FH and O- RU applies the new SM configuration. Ends when Operator disables or changes targets for SM utilization guidance rApp. Exceptions None identified. Non-RT RIC continues to monitor the energy consumption and efficiency Post-conditions and the RAN performance by collecting and monitoring the relevant data over O1. Box "SMO" #gold Box "O-RAN" #lightpink Box "O-RU" #turquoise Box "EXT" #lightcyan Group Data for training and for inference Loop End loop End group Loop End Loop end end end Figure .2.1.1-1: Flow diagram for SM Selection, ML model training in the Non-RT RIC

#### 7.2.1.2 O-RAN Entity Roles
1) SMO (including Non-RT RIC) a) Receive common SM capability information and additional operational parameters from O-DU. b) Subscribe to and retrieve necessary performance indicators (incl. Energy Efficiency KPIs), measurement reports, UE context information, RAN configurations, and SM usage data from E2 Nodes via the O1 interface for the purpose of AI/ML model training, inference, and performance monitoring. c) Optionally, i) collect enrichment information from Application servers and associate enrichment information with collected measurements and configurations, ii) collect prediction or optimization related information from other rApps. d) Perform AI/ML model training and deployment. e) Send SM utilization guidance for Sleep Mode optimization to E2 Nodes over O1. 2) E2 Nodes (O-DU in disaggregated architecture) a) Support retrieving the O-RU SM capabilities and additional operational parameters from O-RU via O-FH. b) Support reporting the common O-DU/O-RU SM capabilities and additional operational parameters to SMO over O1. c) Support reporting of necessary performance indicators (incl. Energy Efficiency KPIs), measurement reports, UE context information, RAN configurations, and SM usage data with required granularity to SMO via the O1 interface. d) Receive SM utilization guidance from the SMO via the O1interface. e) Adjust scheduling strategy (to allow O-RU to internally update its used SMs configuration) or alternatively perform SM selection based on SM utilization guidance received from the SMO. f) Optionally, request O-RU over O-FH to update its used SM configuration (e.g., switch off a certain O-RU functionality). 3) O-RU a) Support reporting the O-RU SMs capabilities and additional operational parameters to O-DU via O- FH. b) Internally apply SM selection or alternatively receive over O-FH and apply O-DUs request for updated SM configuration.

#### 7.2.1.3 Void

### 7.2.2 Option 2: Training in Non-RT RIC and Inference in Near-RT RIC
In this deployment option, the Non-RT RIC retrieves the E2 Node SM capabilities over O1 and R1 via SMO, collects the necessary data from the E2 Nodes and trains an ML model, which is then deployed in the rApp. Inference of the optimized SM utilization range is provided as guidance by the rApp. Additionally, external parties (such as prediction rApps or external application servers) may provide additional information for optimization.

#### 7.2.2.1 Description and UML Diagram
Table .2.2.1-1: Advanced Sleep Mode Selection: Training in Non-RT RIC and Inference in Near-RT RIC <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Provide optimized SM utilization range as guidance to the O-DU and allow Goal for optimized SM selection in O-DU/O-RU.
- SMO/Non-RT RIC: Retrieval of E2 Node SM capabilities.
- SMO/Non-RT RIC: Data collection for ML model training and ML
model deployment.
- Near-RT RIC (xApp): Network data collection and analysis, and
Actors and Roles inference of SM utilization range guidance provided to O-DU.
- O-DU: Expose common O-DU/O-RU SM capabilities over O1/E2.
- O-RU: Expose SM related capabilities to O-DU.
- (Optional) Additional parties: Providing additional data for optimization.
- O-RU and O-DU expose the necessary information about their
Assumptions available SMs capabilities. Pre- conditions - All relevant functions and components are instantiated and available. The operator has enabled or has set targets for SM utilization guidance Begins when xApp. O-RU transmits to O-DU its SM capabilities. O-DU decides on a common Step 1.1, 1.2 (M) set of O-DU/O-RU SM capabilities to utilize during operation. O-DU transmits information about the available O-DU/O-RU SM capabilities Step 1.3, 1.4 (M) to Non-RT RIC/SMO and Near-RT RIC, including minimal operational information. Step 2.1, 2.2 (M), 2.3 Data collection request from SMO to E2 Nodes (M) and external entities (O) (O) for training. Step 2.4, 2.5 (M), 2.6 Data collection from E2 Nodes (M) and external entities (O) for training in (O) SMO. Step 2.7 (M) Non-RT RIC retrieves data for training. Step 2.8, 2.9 (M), 2.10 Data collection request from Near-RT RIC to E2 Nodes (M) and external (O) entities (O) for inference. Step 2.11, 2.12 (M), Data collection from E2 Nodes (M) and external entities (O) to Near-RT

## 2.13 (O) RIC for inference.
Based on continuous/periodically collected data, Non-RT RIC trains the Step 3.1, 3.2, 3.3 (M) AI/ML model and deploys it to Near-RT RIC via O1/O2. Near-RT RIC performs inference using the AI/ML model. Step 4.1 (M) Near-RT RIC provides SM utilization guidance via E2 to O-DU. Step 4.2, 4.3 (O), O-DU considers Near-RT RIC’s SM utilization guidance in its updated scheduling strategy and O-RU applies SM selection internally. Step 4.4, 4.5, 4.6 (O) Based on Near-RT RIC’s SM utilization guidance, O-DU alternatively selects a SM, O-DU requests a new SM configuration by O-RU over O-FH and O- RU applies the new SM configuration. Ends when Operator disables or changes targets for SM utilization guidance xApp. Exceptions None identified. Near-RT RIC/Non-RT RIC continues to monitor the energy consumption and Post-conditions efficiency and the RAN performance by collecting and monitoring the relevant data over E2/O1. Box "SMO" #gold Box "O-RAN" #lightpink Box "O-RU" #turquoise Box "EXT" #lightcyan Group Data for training End group Group Data for inference Loop End Group End Loop Loop End Loop end end Figure .2.2.1-1: Flow diagram for SM Selection in the Near-RT RIC, ML model training in the Non-RT RIC

#### 7.2.2.2 O-RAN Entity Roles
1) SMO (including Non-RT RIC) a) Receive common SM capability information and additional operational parameters from O-DU. b) Subscribe to and retrieve necessary performance indicators (incl. Energy Efficiency KPIs), measurement reports and RAN configurations from E2 Nodes via the O1 interface for the purpose of AI/ML model training and performance monitoring. c) Perform AI/ML model training and deployment. d) Optionally, i) collect enrichment information from Application servers and associate enrichment information with collected measurements and configurations, ii) collect prediction or optimization related information from other rApps. 2) Near-RT RIC (xApp) a) Receive common SM capability information and additional operational parameters from O-DU. b) Subscribe to and retrieve necessary performance indicators (incl. Energy Efficiency KPIs), measurement reports, UE context information, RAN configurations, and SM usage data from E2 Nodes via the E2 interface for the purpose of AI/ML model inference, and performance monitoring. c) Optionally, i) collect enrichment information from Application servers and associate enrichment information with collected measurements and configurations, ii) collect prediction or optimization related information from other xApps (Near-RT RIC internally) or rApps. d) Send SM utilization guidance via a policy message for Sleep Mode optimization to E2 Nodes via the E2 interface. 3) E2 Nodes (O-DU in disaggregated architecture) a) Support retrieving the O-RU SM capabilities and additional operational parameters from O-RU via O-FH. b) Support reporting the common O-DU/O-RU SM capabilities and additional operational parameters to Near-RT RIC over E2 and to SMO over O1. c) Support reporting of necessary performance indicators (incl. Energy Efficiency KPIs), measurement reports, UE context information, RAN configurations, and SM usage data with required granularity to Near-RT RIC via the E2 interface and SMO via the O1 interface. d) Receive SM utilization guidance via policy message from the Near-RT RIC via the E2 interface. e) Adjust scheduling strategy (to allow O-RU to internally update its used SMs configuration) or alternatively perform SM selection based on SM utilization guidance received from the Near-RT RIC. f) Optionally, request O-RU over O-FH to update its used SM configuration (e.g., switch off a certain O-RU functionality). 4) O-RU a) Support reporting the O-RU SMs capabilities and additional operational parameters to O-DU via O- FH. b) Internally apply SM selection or alternatively receive over O-FH and apply O-DUs request for updated SM configuration (e.g., switch off a certain O-RU functionality).

#### 7.2.2.3 Void

## 7.3 Impact Analysis on O-RAN Work Groups
This is an initial impact analysis as part of the WG1 UCTG Network Energy Saving work on Advance Sleep Mode Selection use case. The intention is to estimate the expected standardization effort within the O-RAN working groups. It is up to the WGs to decide how Advance Sleep Mode Selection use case functionality should be specified in specifications of each WG. # WGs/FGs Spec. No Objective description WG1 (Use O-RAN.WG1.NES-USE-CASES-TR Update WG1 NES use case analysis report and use- case) O-RAN.WG1.Use-Cases-Detailed- case detailed specification with Advance Sleep Specification Mode Selection use case. No impact to existing architecture WG2 O-RAN.WG2.R1GAP Updates to R1 services and procedures for Advanced (Non-RT O-RAN.WG2.R1UCR Sleep Mode Selection use case RIC, A1, O-RAN.WG2.R1TD (TBD) R1) Mode Selection use case and generate corresponding A1 policies/updates of O1 and O2-related services via R1 interface, if any. and its requirements in WG2 UCR specification WG3 O-RAN.WG3.UCR Specifying Advanced Sleep Mode Selection use case (Near-RT and its requirements in WG3 UCR specification RIC, E2) NEW: O-RAN.WG3.E2SM-CC implementation of Advance Sleep Mode Selection from E2 Node towards O-RU. analysis of ES and EC for Advance Sleep Mode Selection through Near-RT RIC WG4 O-RAN.WG4.MP Identify the relevant impacts on M-Plane for both (O-FH) hierarchical and hybrid model to accommodate Impact management features requirements towards O-RU. Define O-RU Energy efficiency KPIs and counters. O-RAN-WG4.CUS Identify the relevant impacts on CUS-Plane and data model to support various Advance Sleep Mode Selection use case. WG5 O-RAN.WG5.O-DU-O1 Identify specific O-DU operational and data model (O1) O-RAN.WG5.O-CU-O1 aspects of the feature content including the interface Impact O-RAN.WG5.MP between SMO and O-DU, and the one between SMO and O-CU. Make appropriate changes to the O-DU data model and other WG5 specifications as needed. WG7 WG7 Energy Savings TR WG7 needs to provide reference architecture of O- RU which supports Advance Sleep Mode Selection use case. WG10 O-RAN.WG10.O1-Interface Identify the relevant impacts on O1 interface to Data Models

## 7.4 Relation and Impact on 3GPP Specifications
Within the 3GPP Rel.18 RAN WG1 led study item on network energy saving 3GPP agreed on three Power States for evaluation purpose Micro, Light and Deep Sleep as documented in TR 38.864 [19]. The states represent a simplified model for simulation and evaluation purpose only and have not been part of the normative work in Rel.18. The examples of Advanced Sleep Modes are shown in Annex D. Reference Release Title Documentation and impact on Specifications FS_Netw_Energy_NR 5G Rel.18 Study on network Results will be captured in 3GPP TR energy savings for NR 38.864 [19]. 3GPP TSG RAN 98-e approved a new Rel.18 WID: Network energy savings for NR (RP-223540) which includes following objective. 2. Specify enhancement on cell DTX/DRX mechanism including the alignment of cell DTX/DRX and UE DRX in RRC_CONNECTED mode, and inter-node information exchange on cell DTX/DRX [RAN2, RAN1, RAN3]
- Note: No change for SSB transmission due to cell DTX/DRX.
- Note: The impact to IDLE/INACTIVE UEs due to the above enhancement should be avoided.
While 3GPP standards concentrate on enhancing the co-ordination between UE and gNB for cell DTX/DRX operation, O-RAN Advanced Sleep Mode Selection focuses on co-ordinating O-RU and O-DU based on Non-RT/Near-RT RIC policy.

## 7.5 Void

## 7.6 Feasibility Analysis

### 7.6.1 Impact to Continuous Operation during Advance Sleep Modes
Advanced Sleep Modes that are limited to symbol level are not expected to have a significant impact on user performance. However, longer sleep modes that involve shutting down more components or reducing their activity for longer periods of time may impact user performance such as increased latency and/or reduced data transfer rates.

### 7.6.2 Impact to Coverage
If an O-RU transmission is suspended temporarily (e.g., some kind of deep sleep modes), UEs may be unable to connect to gNB due to missing synchronization, measurements and/or system information, hence the coverage in the area may be impacted. The impact might be mitigated by intelligent configuration and/or using multiple carriers.

### 7.6.3 Impact and Relation to Vendor Specific Scheduling Algorithms
O-RU and O-DU may implement their own sleep modes. However, adjustments may be needed to align with ES/EE policies from Non-RT/Near-RT RIC. Operators need to balance user/cell performance against energy savings, and E2 Nodes (O-DU/O-CU) may require additional functionality to implement these policies.

### 7.6.4 Limited O-RU/O-DU Capabilities
The O-RU and O-DU may have limitations in terms of implementing sleep modes capabilities. It is up to implementation how many Advanced Sleep Modes are supported in O-RU or O-DU. Furthermore, the generic solution should support the transmission of operational parameters from O-RU to O-DU, e.g., minimum duration of activation of SMs, transition times between sleep modes, whether to be applied on UL/DL, etc.

# 8 O-Cloud Resource Energy Saving Mode
In O-RAN split option 7.2x major signal processing is performed by O-DU and O-CU. Hence, O-DU and O- CU hardware components consume energy to maintain a certain level of system availability even in case of low or no traffic load on VNFs or CNFs. As more and more operators adopt virtualized or containerized architecture, there is a strong need to have solution(s) for energy saving in the O-Cloud. The O-Cloud Resource Energy Saving Mode use case should cover various components of the O-Cloud such as CPU/GPU, accelerators, NIC cards and other components at node level. The aim of this use case is to enable energy savings in the O-Cloud by reducing the power consumption of various O-Cloud components without impairing the network performance. Given the network status, the O- Cloud components' power consumption can be optimized through actions such as adaptive shutdown of hardware, scaling out Network Functions, and optimization of CPU/FPGA power, memory usage, CPU frequency, etc. By using multi-dimensional data (e.g., traffic load data at E2 Nodes, load over O-Cloud in terms of compute/storage) the Non-RT RIC can configure changes towards the O-Cloud. The time scale for the control of O-Cloud Resource Energy Saving Mode solutions is Non-Real Time.

## 8.1 Sub Use Case 1: O-Cloud Node Shutdown

### 8.1.1 Problem Statement, Solution and Value Proposition
This use case describes a method to perform O-Cloud Energy Saving by shutting down physical O-Cloud Node(s) in idle times through Non-RT RIC. When O-Cloud Node is operating at low load, then the deployed Network Functions or its microservices can be relocated or shut down or blocked from starting on the node in order to free up the node. Moving VNFs or CNFs within O-Cloud and/or evacuating the O-Cloud Nodes are O-Cloud internal functionalities which might be triggered by the SMO. Idle O-Cloud Nodes can be shut down to reduce energy consumption during low-load times. Non-RT RIC subscribes to O2 data via SMO, which, among others, includes configuration of O-Cloud Nodes (e.g., K8s cluster, resource pools, NF-pod-node associations). Non-RT RIC provides guidance to the SMO. The SMO monitors O-Cloud and E2 Node resources based on O1/O2 data and requests shut down (scale in) or add O- Cloud resources via O2ims (scale out) based on Non-RT RIC guidance. O-Cloud (IMS) will estimate if sufficient O-Cloud resources are remaining or are available to serve respective requests. After execution or rejection of respective requests O-Cloud (IMS) will communicate its actions via O2ims. Evacuation of Node 1 NF N etwork NF Function NF NF NF NF relocation O-Cloud Node 1 O-Cloud Node O-Cloud Node

# A Node is the smallest unit of a computing hardware, such as a physical or virtual machine. Programs
running on Nodes are packaged as containers. One or more containers form a structure are called a pod. A pod might comprise functionalities supporting one or multiple cells or parts of one or multiple cells. As shown in Figure 8.1.1-1, O-Cloud Node 1 has one VNF pod deployed which can be relocated to the O-Cloud Node 2, which would make O-Cloud Node 1 idle. Post relocation of the VNF pod, the idle O-Cloud Node 1 can be shut down to reduce energy consumption. Non-RT RIC will use O1 and O2 data to provide guidance for shutdown decision. For example, O-Cloud resource utilization matrices such as CPU, memory, and storage utilization can be analyzed by using O- Cloud Monitoring Service telemetry. Such data can be correlated with RAN related load and energy consumption information obtained per Network Function via the O1 interfaces.

### 8.1.2 Architecture/Deployment Option
Background information on O-Cloud architecture and management: Federated O-Cloud Orchestration and Management (FOCOM), Network Function Orchestrator (NFO), Infrastructure Management Services (IMS) and Deployment Management Services (DMS) are defined in O-RAN.WG6.O2-GA&P [20]. The FOCOM is responsible for accounting and asset management of the resources in the cloud. The NFO is responsible for orchestrating the assembly of the network functions as a composition of NF deployments in the O-Cloud. The IMS is responsible for management of the O-Cloud resources and the software which is used to manage those resources, and the DMS is responsible for management of NF deployments into the O-Cloud. In this deployment option, decision making for O-Cloud Node Shutdown configuration and guidance, potentially including AI/ML model training and inference, is done at the SMO/Non-RT RIC. The overall mechanism is shown in Figure 8.1.2-1. SMO 1) Receive guidance from Non-RT RIC for optimizing energy consumption for O- Cloud resource evacuation and Service, Management & Orchestration shutdown. O-Cloud ES Guidance 2) Provide optimized configuration for O- Cloud resource evacuation and shutdown FOCOM towards O-Cloud. Non-Real Time RIC Non-RT RIC (rApp) NFO & rApp 1) Collect O-Cloud FCAPS data via SMO over O2/R1. 2) Collect E2 Node data via SMO over O1/R1. 3) Train Deploy AI/ML Model to generate O2-IMS O2-DMS O1 A1 guidance based on O1 and O2 data. 4) Generate guidance for O-Cloud configuration based on priority, load and energy consumption. Near-RT RIC IMS DMS DMS O-Cloud DMS E2 1) Expose O2 (IMS/DMS) data Open FH towards SMO. M-Plane 2) Apply configuration provided by E2 Node O-Cloud SMO, e.g., execute Node evacuation/shutdown. 3) Communicate its action towards Open FH SMO/Non-RT RIC. M-Plane O-RU

#### 8.1.2.1 Description and UML Diagram
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Shutting down O-Cloud Nodes during idle times or low load scenario for Goal energy saving purpose.
- SMO (FOCOM): Receives guidance from Non-RT RIC and generates
optimized configurations towards O-Cloud.
- SMO (NFO): Receives guidance from Non-RT RIC and generates
Actors and Roles optimized configurations towards O-Cloud.
- Non-RT-RIC (rApp): Trains AI/ML models and generates guidance.
- O-Cloud (IMS): Executes changes recommended by SMO/FOCOM.
- O-Cloud (DMS): Executes changes recommended by SMO/NFO.
- The “Service Request” from Non-RT RIC to the FOCOM includes the
identifiers of the O-Cloud Node(s) to be evacuated or shut down.
- The “Service Request” from Non-RT RIC to the NFO includes the
Assumptions identifiers of the NFs to be modified.
- Non-RT RIC (rApp) subscribed to receive notifications from SMO.
- SMO (FOCOM and NFO) gets guidance from Non-RT RIC (rApp).
- All relevant functions and components are instantiated and available.
- Non-RT RIC can receive configurations, load and performance
measurements from E2 Nodes via O1 and telemetry data from O-Cloud via O2. Pre-conditions
- O-Cloud ensures that relocation of NF pod from one Node to another
Node does not impair network services.
- O-Cloud ensures that NF Pod shutdown does not impair network
services related to that NF. Begins when The operator has enabled or has set targets for O-Cloud Node Shutdown. Network Function (applications) related data is subscribed to and received Step 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, over O1 interface, for example traffic load of NF, NF utilization, NF energy

## 1.4 (M)
consumption etc. Step 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, O-Cloud utilization matrices (such as CPU, Memory, Storage utilization) and 2.4, 2.5, 2.6, 2.7, 2.8 NF placement are acquired by Non-RT RIC from O-Cloud via SMO framework (M) over O2 interface. Non-RT RIC trains the AI/ML models with the collected data. Trained AI/ML models are deployed and activated in the Non-RT RIC. Non-RT RIC Step 3.1, 3.2 (O) constantly monitors performance and energy consumption of the O-Cloud Nodes, NF deployments, as well as cell load related and traffic data, EE/EC measurement reports etc. Non-RT RIC provides guidance to FOCOM and NFO to modify NF deployments and to evacuate the specific O-Cloud Node(s). Step 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, NFO requests the DMS over O2dms to modify NF deployment. 4.5, 4.6 (M) FOCOM requests the IMS using O2ims interface to evacuate one or more O- Cloud Nodes after modification (shutdown, relocation etc.) of NF deployments. IMS notifies SMO that the O-Cloud Node(s) evacuation is completed (or Step 5.1, 5.2, 5.3 (O) rejected). Non-RT RIC provides guidance to FOCOM, then FOCOM configures IMS to Step 6.1, 6.2, 6.3, (M) shutdown Node(s). Step 7 (M) IMS shuts down the requested O-Cloud Node(s). Step 8.1, 8.2, 8.3 (M) IMS notifies SMO that O-Cloud Node(s) shut down is completed. Ends when O-Cloud Node(s) have been shut down. Exceptions None identified. O-Cloud Node(s) may be shut down for energy saving. SMO/Non-RT RIC continues to monitor the load on the O-Cloud and RAN Post-conditions data by collecting and monitoring the relevant performance and matrices using O1 and O2. Box “O-Cloud Platform” #lightseagreen participant “IMS” as IMS participant “DMS” as DMS Box "Service Management & \n Orchestration Framework" #gold Box "O-RAN" #lightpink User traffic load on NF(O-DU/O-CU), NF(O-DU/O-CU)Resource utilization etc. data to retreieved End note Loop End Loop Note over nRT,IMS O2ims & O2dms telemetry, configurations such as CPU,Memory, Storage utilization,O-Cloud Node configurations etc End note Loop End Loop Note over nRT,FOCOM Draning request to be included with necessary O-Cloud Node identifiers End note Loop for each \nNF Deployment End Loop Loop for each \nO-Cloud Node End Loop Note over nRT , FOCOM Shutdown request to be included with necessary O-Cloud Node identifiers End note Loop For each\n O-Cloud Node End Loop

#### 8.1.2.2 O-RAN Entity Roles
1) Non-RT RIC (rApp) a) Collect configurations, performance indicators and power consumption information from E2 Nodes and O-Cloud Nodes via SMO, for the purpose of decision making, optionally using training and inference of AI/ML models that assist such EE/ES functions. b) Collect O-Cloud configuration data from O2 via SMO / from FOCOM and from NFO including policies applied to O-Cloud. c) Provide guidance towards FOCOM to evacuate or shut down O-Cloud Nodes. d) (Optionally) Deploy, update, configure and trigger execution of EE/ES AI/ML models. 2) E2 Node a) Report KPIs and measurements related to load and power consumption information to SMO via O1 interface. 3) O-Cloud (DMS) a) Report NF deployment information to SMO via O2dms interface. b) Apply NF deployment configurations received over O2dms. c) Provide feedback on NF deployment modification actions. 4) O-Cloud (IMS) a) Report infrastructure and deployment telemetry data to SMO via O2 interface. For example, O- Cloud Node configuration, health status, server memory utilization and I/O load overtime, CPU, network, and memory usage. b) Apply configurations received over O2ims related to O-Cloud Node draining and shutdown as part of O-Cloud energy saving optimization. c) Provide feedback post completion or non-completion of actions to SMO. 5) SMO (NFO) a) Collect the necessary configurations and NF deployment data from O-Cloud triggered by Non-RT RIC and forward information towards Non-RT RIC. b) Decide about optimized O-Cloud deployment configuration based on guidance received from Non- RT RIC to modify NF deployments. Send optimized O-Cloud deployment configuration to O-Cloud via O2dms interface. c) Monitor the NF deployment of O-Cloud NF via O2dms and report to Non-RT RIC. 6) SMO (FOCOM) a) Collect the necessary configurations, performance indicators, and measurement reports data from O- Cloud triggered by Non-RT RIC and forward information towards Non-RT RIC. b) Decide about optimized O-Cloud configuration based on guidance received from Non-RT RIC to evacuate or shut down O-Cloud Nodes. Send optimized O-Cloud Node configuration to O-Cloud via O2ims interface. c) Monitor the performance of O-Cloud Nodes via O2ims and report to Non-RT RIC.

#### 8.1.2.3 Void

### 8.1.3 Impact Analysis on O-RAN Work Groups
No detailed impact analysis has been conducted during this study.
> NOTE 8.1-1 should be resolved by WG6 during normative phase.

### 8.1.4 Relation and Impact on 3GPP Specifications
No specific relation and impact on 3GPP specifications have been identified during the study.

### 8.1.5 Void

### 8.1.6 Feasibility Analysis

#### 8.1.6.1 Service Continuity during NF relocation
NF pod relocation between cluster nodes involves shutting down the NF pod on its original node and starting a new NF pod on another node. In order to avoid impairment of the network performance and service continuity, it has to be guaranteed that all functionalities and traffic allocated to the original NF pod are reallocated before shutdown.

#### 8.1.6.2 Pooling vs. Scaling Gains
Nodes can be shut down only if all pods running on them are shut down. O-Cloud Node Shutdown will result in concentration of pods on a fewer number of nodes, which also decreases resiliency and robustness.

#### 8.1.6.3 Start-up Time for Scale Out Operation
Scale out operation after node shutdown involves startup of several pieces of hardware, initialization of its operating system and virtualization layers, configuring it as a cluster node, and adding it to the cluster as a node. Overall, this sequence of procedures can take several minutes. Therefore, Energy Saving procedures and resiliency/robustness procedures are to be optimized jointly.
> NOTE 8.1-1: To be assessed by WG6, how fast reconfigurations of the O-Cloud Node Shutdown by SMO /
Non-RT RIC can be applied in the O-Cloud and if there is any specific requirement.

## 8.2 Sub Use Case 2: O-Cloud CPU Energy Saving Mode

### 8.2.1 Problem Statement, Solution and Value Proposition
This use case describes a method of O-Cloud Energy Saving in which preferred CPU Energy Saving modes can be configured by SMO/Non-RT RIC. CPU Energy Saving modes, implemented by the vendor or standardized, may correspond to different CPU energy saving states (related to, e.g., CPU frequency, voltage, certain sleep modes) that can be controlled externally for CPU Power Management. O-Cloud might for instance be configured with a range (or utilization factor) of allowed or suggested CPU Energy Saving modes. O-Cloud is allowed to do fast adaptations of the CPU Energy Saving modes autonomously (e.g., based on instantaneous load of one or multiple CPUs) within that range. Alternatively, O-Cloud might be configured with a maximum CPU Energy Saving mode. O-Cloud is allowed to select among Energy Saving modes up to the maximum O-Cloud Energy Saving mode autonomously. By this, energy savings can be maximized, while still limiting the impact on QoS/user experience (e.g., potential latency impact on user plane traffic). The operator is allowed to control and tune O-Cloud energy saving gains versus O-Cloud performance. Examples for CPU Energy Saving modes are the control of CPU frequency/voltage (P-state) and/or certain C-state of the O-Cloud Node CPUs as explained in the following. CPU frequency (P-State): P-States provide a way to scale the CPU frequency and voltage to reduce the power consumption of the CPU. The number of available P-States can vary with the type of CPU, even those from the same family, or one can change the corresponding frequency of the CPU. P-states can typically be limited or disabled in a system’s firmware such as UEFI/BIOS. Frequency of the CPU (P-State) can be dynamically changed based on the load on the O-Cloud Node and thus O-Cloud Node energy consumption can be modified. The decision to select a desired CPU frequency (P- State) can be done by examining the current operational CPU frequency (P-State), CPU utilization and other related O2 and O1 (Traffic) telemetry from the O-Cloud instance. P-State or CPU Frequency can be changed for the whole CPU (all cores) as well as for individual cores of a CPU. C-State: C-States are usually starting in C0, which is the normal CPU operating mode, i.e., the CPU is 100% turned on. With increasing C , the CPU sleep mode is deeper, i.e., more circuits are turned off and more time is Number required to return the CPU back to C0 mode, i.e., to wake-up. Each mode is named individually and several of them have sub-modes with different power saving and thus wake-up time levels. Example C-states:
- C0 is the operational state, meaning that the CPU is 100% turned on.
- C1 is the first idle state.
- C2 is the second idle state.
At the O-Cloud Node CPU level, power usage can be controlled in various ways. One way is by controlling the C-State of the CPU in CPE idle condition. C-States reflect the capability of an idle processor to turn off unused components to save power. The decision of desired C-State must consider the NF deployment distribution on the O-Cloud instance and might involve consolidating the deployments on the limited set of O-Cloud Nodes based on O2 telemetry analysis such as CPU utilization, memory utilization, etc. C-State can be changed at the CPU level, or at the individual core level of that CPU.

### 8.2.2 Architecture/Deployment Option
In this deployment option, decision making for CPU Energy Saving Mode utilization control, potentially including AI/ML Model Training and Inference, is done at the Non-RT RIC. The overall mechanism is shown in Figure 8.2.2-1. SMO 1) Receive guidance from NonRT RIC for Service, Management & Orchestration optimizing CPU Energy Saving Mode. O-Cloud ES Guidance 2) Provide optimized configuration forCPU Energy Saving Mode towards O-Cloud. FOCOM Non-Real Time RIC Non-RT RIC (rApp) NFO & rApp 1) Collect O-Cloud FCAPS data via SMO over O2/R1. 2) Collect E2 Node data via SMO over O1/R1. 3) Generate guidance/configuration (NOTE 0-1, O2-IMS O2-DMS O1 A1
> NOTE 8.2-2) based on O1 and O2 data for CPU
Energy Saving Mode control based on priority, load and energy consumption. Near-RT RIC IMS DMS DMS O-Cloud DMS E2 1) Expose O2 (IMS/DMS) data toward Open FH SMO/Non-RT RIC. M-Plane 2) Apply configuration provided by FOCOM O-Cloud E2 Node in its decision making. 3) Communicate its actions towards SMO/Non-RT RIC. Open FH M-Plane O-RU
> NOTE 0-1: The interface between Non-RT RIC and FOCOM is for illustrative purposes, subject to further
modification by WG1 ATG architecture specifications.
> NOTE 0-2: To be studied by WG2 if rApp has all information from O-Cloud to generate the updated
guidance towards FOCOM.

#### 8.2.2.1 Description and UML Diagram
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Optimizing CPU Energy Saving Mode for power management of the O- Goal Cloud Node CPUs (e.g., to preferably use low power mode when CPU is idle or operating at low load).
- SMO/FOCOM: Receives guidance from Non-RT RIC and generates
optimized configurations towards O-Cloud. Actors and Roles
- Non-RT RIC (rApp): Trains AI/ML models and generates guidance.
- O-Cloud (IMS): Executes changes recommended by SMO/Non-RT RIC.
- The “Service Request” to the FOCOM includes the identifiers of the O-
Cloud Node(s) to be controlled.
- Non-RT RIC (rApp) has subscribed to receive notifications from SMO.
Assumptions
- SMO (FOCOM) gets guidance from Non-RT RIC (rApp), where rApp
may host the algorithm(s) that determine to control the CPU Energy Saving Mode.
- All relevant functions and components are instantiated and available.
- Non-RT RIC can receive configurations, load, performance
measurements from RAN nodes via the O1 and telemetry data from O- Pre- conditions Cloud via O2.
- Changes of the CPU Energy Saving Mode(s) within the O-Cloud are
enabled from O-Cloud Node BIOS/UEFI. The operator has enabled or has set targets for this CPU Energy Saving Begins when Mode control. Collection of traffic load and utilization and RAN configurations related Step 1.1, 1.2, 1.3 (M) Network function (O-DU and O-CU) data over O1 interface. O-Cloud Node telemetry and inventory, for example CPU utilization, Step 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.4, supported and currently used CPU Energy Saving Mode etc. over O2 2.5, 2.6, 2.7, 2.8 (M) interface to be acquired from SMO. Non-RT RIC optionally trains the AI/ML models with the collected data. Trained AI/ML models are deployed and activated in the Non-RT RIC. Non- RT RIC constantly monitors RAN performance and energy consumption of Step 3.1, 3.2 (O) the O-Cloud Nodes for inference; for example, load related and traffic information, EE/EC measurement reports, CPU, Memory, Storage utilization, etc. Non-RT RIC provides guidance to FOCOM, then FOCOM configures IMS with preferred CPU Energy Saving Mode(s) for the CPU of O-Cloud Node(s). Step 4.1, 4.2 (M)
> NOTE: CPU cores of specific O-Cloud Node might be identified in guidance
or O2 configuration. IMS applies optimized CPU Energy Saving Mode of each O-Cloud Node to Step 5 (M) the configured CPU Energy Saving Mode. IMS notifies SMO and SMO notifies Non-RT RIC that change of Energy Step 6.1, 6.2, 6.3 (M) Saving Mode utilization is completed. Ends when CPU Energy Saving Mode has been changed. Exceptions None identified. Based on the load on the O-Cloud Nodes, the desired CPU Energy Saving Post-conditions mode is changed. Thus, CPU Energy Saving mode (e.g., CPU frequency (P- State) and/or C-State of CPU) is optimized for or energy saving purposes. Box “O-Cloud Platform” #lightseagreen participant “IMS” as IMS participant “DMS” as DMS Box "Service Management & \n Orchestration Framework" #gold Box "O-RAN" #lightpink User Traffic Load, RAN configurations related to Network functions (O-DU & O-CU) data to be retrieved End note Loop End Loop Note over nRT,IMS O2ims & O2dms telemetry & inventory such as supported CPU Energy Saving Modes and status, CPU utilization, current operational CPU Power, Frequency, Voltage etc of O-Cloud node to be retrieved End note Loop End Loop Loop For each O-Cloud Node End Loop

#### 8.2.2.2 O-RAN Entity Roles
1) Non-RT RIC (rApp) a) Collect configurations, performance indicators and power consumption information from SMO, E2 Nodes and O-Cloud Nodes, for the purpose of decision making, optionally using training and inference of AI/ML models that assist such EE/ES functions. b) Collect O-Cloud configuration data from FOCOM including supported CPU Energy Saving Modes and planned policies or configuration changes towards O-Cloud. c) Collect O-Cloud configuration data from NFO including NF deployment configuration and planned policies and configuration changes towards O-Cloud. d) Provide guidance to FOCOM to change CPU Energy Saving Mode. e) (Optional) Deploy, update, configure and trigger execution of EE/ES AI/ML models.
> NOTE 0-3: Framework and procedure for guidance from Non-RT RIC to NFO/FOCOM within SMO to be
studied in WG1 ATG. 2) E2 Node a) Report KPIs and measurements related to load and power consumption information to SMO via O1 interface. 3) O-Cloud (including IMS and DMS) a) Report infrastructure telemetry data to SMO via O2 interface, for example O-Cloud Node health status, server memory utilization and I/O load over time and deployment telemetry data like CPU, network, and memory usage etc. b) Apply configurations received over O2ims related to CPU Energy Saving Mode. c) Provide feedback post completion or non-completion of actions to SMO and/or to Non-RT RIC through SMO. 4) SMO (FOCOM/NFO) a) Collect the necessary configurations, performance indicators, and measurement reports data from RAN nodes and O-Cloud triggered by Non-RT RIC and forward information towards Non-RT RIC. b) Decide about optimized O-Cloud configuration based on guidance received by Non-RT RIC to optimize CPU Energy Saving Mode utilization. Send optimized O-Cloud Node configuration to O- Cloud via O2ims interface. c) Monitor the performance of O-Cloud Nodes via O2ims and RAN Network functions via O1; when the optimization objective fails, initiate fall-back procedure; meanwhile, trigger the AI/ML model re- training, data analytics and optimization in Non-RT RIC.

#### 8.2.2.3 Void

### 8.2.3 Impact Analysis on O-RAN Work Groups
No detailed impact analysis has been conducted during this study.
> NOTE 8.2-1 through NOTE 8.2-4 shall be resolved by WG1 ATG, WG2 and WG6 during normative phase.

### 8.2.4 Relation and Impact on 3GPP Specifications
No specific relation and impact on 3GPP specifications have been identified during the study.

### 8.2.5 Void

### 8.2.6 Feasibility Analysis

#### 8.2.6.1 Not to Restrict Fast CPU Energy Saving Mode Switching
O-Cloud has instantaneous knowledge about O-Cloud resource and energy consumption and is therefore capable of fast adaptions. Moreover, different energy saving features might be available and run on different time scales, with different latency requirements. SMO/Non-RT RIC configurations should not restrict the O- Cloud from utilizing other (faster) energy saving features in case those are deemed optimal in the given context and decrease the energy consumption.
> NOTE 8.2-4: To be assessed by WG6, how fast reconfigurations of the CPU Energy Saving Mode by
SMO/FOCOM can be applied in the O-Cloud, and if there is any specific requirement.

# 9 Summary and Conclusion
In the O-RAN WG1 UCTG Network Energy Saving pre-normative phase, Network Energy Saving use cases have been analyzed. This Technical Report presents the results of the pre-normative phase Network Energy Saving work item. Carrier and Cell Switch Off/On is a technique which enables turning off cells/carriers in case there is no load/UEs in the respective cell/carrier, and the neighboring cells/carriers can take over the expected additional load. The algorithm to trigger off/on switching may be hosted in the Non-RT RIC or in the Near- RT RIC. Performance, load, resource utilization, and energy/power consumption related KPIs are forwarded to the RIC from the E2 Nodes and O-RUs, and the RIC-based applications determine recommendations for cells/carriers to be switched off (energySavingState). Ultimately, the switch-off operations are performed by the E2 Node (O-CU) since additional critical operations are required which are handled by the O-CU. While for the Non-RT RIC deployment all input/output parameters are existing, enhancements to the E2 interface are required when the algorithm is hosted by the Near-RT RIC. Numerical analysis shows a high potential of this energy saving technique for overall Network Energy Saving. No challenges on feasibility have been identified. Carrier and Cell Switch Off/On is suggested for normative standardization with the foreseen impact on O-RAN WGs as outlined in Section 5.3. RF Channel Reconfiguration is a technique which enables O-RU to be requested to perform Tx/Rx Array selection. At low load, i.e., when the expected traffic volume or number of connected users are lower than the configured threshold, the power consumption of O-RUs can be reduced by switching off certain Tx/Rx arrays. For example, 32 out of 64 Tx/Rx Arrays of an O-RU can be switched off in a digital mMIMO architecture. The algorithm to trigger RF Channel Reconfiguration may be hosted in the Non-RT RIC or in the Near-RT RIC. Respective KPIs are collected by the Near-RT/non-RT RIC from the E2 Nodes and O- RUs, to be used by the xApps/rApps to determine recommendations for RF Channel Reconfiguration to be executed by the E2 Nodes. Numerical analysis shows a large potential of this energy saving technique for overall Network Energy Saving. Some feasibility aspects are listed in Section 6.6 which should be considered during normative phases in relevant WGs. RF Channel Reconfiguration is suggested for normative standardization with the foreseen impact on O-RAN WGs as outlined in Section 6.3. Advanced Sleep Modes typically refer to standardized or implementation specific intelligent energy saving techniques in the RAN. The Advanced Sleep Mode Selection use case is a technique which achieves more granular energy saving by optimizing the range of allowed sleep modes in the O-DU/O-RU via RIC-based guidance. Two architecture/deployment options have been identified, 1) Training and Inference in Non-RT RIC, and 2) Training in Non-RT RIC and Inference in Near-RT RIC. In both options, the Non-RT RIC retrieves the E2 Node Sleep Mode capabilities over O1 and R1 via SMO, collects the necessary data from the E2 Nodes and trains an ML model, which is then deployed: for option 1) in the rApp, and for option 2) in the Near-RT RIC (xApp). In option 1) inference of the optimized Sleep Mode utilization range is provided as guidance by the rApp, while in option 2) by the Near-RT RIC (xApp). Some feasibility aspects are listed in Section 7.6 which should be considered during normative phases in relevant WGs. Advanced Sleep Mode Selection is suggested for normative standardization with the foreseen impact on O-RAN WGs as outlined in Section 7.3. O-Cloud Resource Energy Saving Mode comprises a set of techniques which enable energy savings in the O- Cloud by reducing the power consumption of various O-Cloud components without impairing the network performance. Two sub use cases have been identified, O-Cloud Node Shutdown and O-Cloud CPU Energy Saving Mode. The O-Cloud Node Shutdown use case is a method for reducing O-Cloud energy consumption by focusing NF deployments on a fewer number of (physical) O-Cloud Nodes and thereby potentially freeing up physical resources. Thereafter, shutting down the idle physical nodes is achieved through guidance from Non-RT RIC to FOCOM. The O-Cloud CPU Energy Saving Mode use case is a method for reducing the O- Cloud energy consumption by guiding the available CPU-internal energy saving states via guidance provided by Non-RT RIC to FOCOM. Some feasibility aspects are listed in Section 8.1.6 and Section 8.2.6, respectively, which should be considered during normative phases in relevant WGs. O-Cloud Resource Energy Saving Mode is suggested for normative standardization with the foreseen impact on O-RAN WGs as outlined in Section 8.1.3 and Section 8.2.3. Implementation of NES features should ensure stable and conflict-free network operation. Ideas on design principles for NES applications facilitating appropriate conflict mitigation are outlined in Annex A. O-RAN O1 interfaces are used for exchange of data for analysis and provisioning of configuration changes in the O-RAN Nodes. How Network Energy Saving use cases utilize the O1 interface for such purpose is described in Annex C in a generic way.


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG1.O1-Interface.0-v04.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG1.O1-Interface.0-v04.00 Technical Specification O-RAN Operations and Maintenance Interface Specification"
---

### 2019.03.18 0.01.00.00 David Kinsey First draft of O-RAN OAM Interface Specification
(AT&T) Li Xiang(CMCC), Cagatay Buyukkoc (AT&T), Lyndon Ong (Ciena), Marge Hillis (Nokia) and Linda Horn (Nokia)

### 2019.03.28 0.01.01.00 Marge Hillis Updates from review remarks received
(Nokia)

### 2019.05.21 0.01.01.01 Marge Hillis Fault Supervision, Performance Assurance and File
(Nokia) Management updates

### 2019.05.28 0.01.01.02 Marge Hillis, References, Abbreviations, Definitions, Provisioning,
Linda Horn Communication Surveillance, PNF Start Up and (Nokia) Registration updates

### 2019.06.13 0.01.01.03 Marge Hillis, Diagrams for File Management converted to UML,
Linda Horn Performance Assurance UML, PNF Software Management (Nokia), David Updates Kinsey (ATT)

### 2019.06.17 0.01.01.04 Marge Hillis, Provisioning Updates
Linda Horn Linda Horn Linda Horn notifications, NETCONF requirements and updated references to 3GPP SA5 Rel-16. Linda Horn Subscription Control, Streaming PM, O-RAN Defined PM Measurements and an Annex showing exmaples for using the specified template for O-RAN defined PM Measurements. Linda Horn, Supervision, Performance Assurance, Trace Management, Louise Sun and Heartbeat Management to incorporate 3GPP Rel 16 CRs. Add Annex B for stndDefined event example and


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG1.OAM-Architecture-v04.00 .md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG1.OAM-Architecture-v04.00 Technical Specification O-RAN Operations and Maintenance Architecture"
---

# 7 Release x.y.z
where: x the first digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc. (the initial approved document will have x=01). y the second digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been incorporated in the document. z the third digit included only in working versions of the document indicating incremental changes during the editing process. The present document studies O-RAN OAM architecture and interface functions. The OAM architecture supports a variety of management network deployment models, including the model of management entities (NMS/EMS/MANO) connecting directly to NEs, and the indirect connection (e.g., M-Plane involved) model. A separate OAM interface document provides details of the functions and protocols conveyed over the interface, that include management functions, procedures, operations and corresponding solutions.

## 1.2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this text, constitute provisions of the present document.
- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition number, version number, etc.) or
non-specific.
- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including
a GSM document), a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document in Release 15. [1] 3GPP TR 21.905: “Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications” [2] 3GPP TS 38.401: "NG-RAN; Architecture description". [3] 3GPP TS 28.622: "Telecommunication management; Generic Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration

# 30 Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.101: “Telecommunication management; Principles and high level requirements”. [5] 3GPP TS 28.532: Management and orchestration; Generic management services [6] 3GPP TS 28.533: Management and orchestration; Architecture framework [7] 3GPP TS 28.550: Management and orchestration; Performance assurance [8] 3GPP TS 28.552: Management and orchestration; 5G performance measurements [9] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 005 V3.3.1 (2019-08), Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV) Release 3;Management and Orchestration;Or-Vi reference point - Interface and Information Model Specification [10] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 027 V2.4.1 (2018-05), Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV) Release 2;Management and Orchestration; Performance Measurements Specification [11] O-RAN White Paper: “O-RAN: Towards an Open and Smart RAN”, October 2018 / O-RAN.WG1.OAM- [12] O-RAN-WG4.MP.0-v05.00: O-RAN Alliance Working Group 4 Management Plane Specification [13] O-RAN.WG1.O1-Interface-v04.00: “O-RAN Operations and Maintenance Interface Specification”. [14] ORAN.WG2.Use Case Requirements v01.00: “O-RAN Working Group 2 (Non-RT RIC & A1 interface)”. [15] O-RAN.WG6.CAD-v02.00, “Cloud Architecture and Deployment Scenarios for O-RAN Virtualized RAN” [16] O-RAN.WG6.ORC-v02.00, “Orchestration Use Cases for O-RAN Virtualized RAN” [17] O-RAN.WG1-O-RAN Architecture Description - v03.00: “O-RAN Architecture Description”. [18] ORAN.WG3.E2GAP.0-v0.1: “O-RAN Working Group 3; Near-Real-time RAN Intelligent Controller

# 8 Architecture & E2 General Aspects and Principles”.
[19] O-RAN.WG3.RICARCH-v01.00: “O-RAN Working Group 3;Near-Real-time RAN Intelligent Controller;

# 10 Near-RT RIC Architecture”
[20] 3GPP TR 28.809 v0.2.0, Study on enhancement of management data analytics [21] O-RAN-WG6.O2-GA&P-v01.00: “O2 General Aspects and Principles v.01.00” [22] https://yaml.org/spec/1.2/spec.html, "YAML Ain’t Markup Language (YAML™) Version 1.2", October 2009 [23] O-RAN.WG1.Information Model and Data Models-v01.00: “O-RAN Information Model and Data Models

# 16 Specification”

## 1.3 Definitions and Abbreviations

### 1.3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP

# 22 TR 21.905 [1].
Also, any terms and definitions that are also given in the O-RAN Architecture [17] are intended to be aligned. Text in the O-RAN Architecture [17] takes precedence in case of any difference. infrastructure resources: Infrastructure resources as used here refer to a set of resources provided to a VNF [9] by its supporting O-Cloud. Service Planning: The activity of a Service Operator around certifying a solution configuration for deployment into their network. Service Provider: A network provider who is planning to deploy applications into their network. Solution Provider: An application developer who delivers applications to Service Providers. "SP" Exchange: Not a formal interface in terms of between systems. However, the structure and content of the exchange is defined such that a Solution Provider can deliver applications to a Service Provider for deployment. Definitions for the following terms used in the document can be found in the O-RAN Architecture [17]: near-RT RIC non-RT RIC

# 36 NMS

# 37 O-Cloud

# 38 O-CU

# 39 O-CU-CP

# 40 O-CU-UP

# 41 O-DU

# 42 O-RU

# 43 O1
/ O-RAN.WG1.OAM-

### 1.3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in

# 8 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].

# 9 FCAPS Fault, Configuration, Accounting, Performance, Security

# 10 FOCOM Federated O-Cloud Orchestration and Management

# 11 MA Managed Application

# 12 ME Managed Element

# 13 MF Managed Function

# 14 MMP Meet-Me-Point

# 15 NAT Network Address Translation
Near-RT RIC O-RAN near real time RAN Intelligent Controller

# 17 NFO Network Function Orchestration

# 18 NFV Network Function Virtualization

# 19 NFVI Network Function Virtualization Infrastructure

# 20 NM Network Manager

# 21 Non-RT RIC O-RAN non-real time RAN Intelligent Controller

# 22 O-CU-CP O-RAN Central Unit – Control Plane.

# 23 O-CU-UP O-RAN Central Unit – User Plane

# 24 O-DU O-RAN Distributed Unit

# 25 O-RU O-RAN Radio Unit

# 26 PCP Port Control Protocol

# 27 PK Primary Key

# 28 PNF Physical Network Function

# 29 RAN Radio Access Network

# 30 SDLC Software Development LifeCycle

# 31 SMO Service Management and Orchestration

# 32 VNF Virtualized Network Function

# 33 VPN Virtual Private Network

# 34 UPNP Universal Plug-N-Play
/ O-RAN.WG1.OAM-

# 15 Solution Provider to a Service Provider/Network Operator.
Future versions of the architecture will address additional areas of O-RAN OAM functionality.

### 2.2.1 O-RAN Service Provisioning

# 23 2.2.1.1 Basic Objective
In the O-RAN architecture, the radio side includes Near-RT RIC, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU, and O-RU Managed Functions, and the management side is comprised of the Service Management and Orchestration Framework (including the Non-RT RIC). In the NFV environment, O-RAN network elements can also be implemented in a virtualized form, and thus include an Infrastructure layer (e.g. COTS/White Box/Peripheral hardware and virtualization layer) based on an O-Cloud. The current use case focuses on network/element deployment rather than physical construction. According to the radio coverage requirement, operators could deploy the O-RAN network/element on dedicated physical resources and/or virtualized resources in a specific area. This use case assumes that the network elements are deployed based on an example Network Design using VNFs for centralized functions and PNFs for functions closer to the customer, so that the sequence calls for deployment of VNFs for the Near-RT RIC, O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP first followed by PNFs for the O-DU and O-RU. Note: RF functions must always be realized as PNFs but the O-DU can be realized as a PNF or VNF; this document uses PNF as an example to illustrate the associated OAM flows. It is also assumed that secure network connectivity is already available between RAN components.

# 38 2.2.1.2 Entities/Resources involved
To support the O-RAN network provisioning, the Service Management and Orchestration Framework needs to support the following capabilities: / O-RAN.WG1.OAM-

# 12 • O-RAN network provisioning
a) Based on the deployed network elements, the Service Management and Orchestration Framework configures the IP addressing, etc. in the PNFs and VNFs to support connectivity between them (this operation could also be performed during the instantiation steps). b) Operators can operate and maintain the network dynamically through the O1 and/or O2 interface by means of: i. Reconfiguration of the network elements ii. System update (usually refers to software management, without adding network elements) and system upgrade (the network elements could be added/removed/modified) According to above, the Service Management and Orchestration Framework together with the O-Cloud implements the O-RAN network element deployment and provisioning, creating an O-RAN network to provide service to consumers.

# 22 2.2.1.3 Solutions

# 23 Table 2.2.1-1 shows the O-RAN service provisioning procedures.

# 24 Table 2.2.1-1: O-RAN service provisioning
/ O-RAN.WG1.OAM- <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal O-RAN service provisioning [1]. Service Management and Orchestration Framework: NFO, OAM Functions, Non-RT RIC Actors and Roles [2]. O-Cloud: DMS [3]. PNF [4]. VNF Assumptions [1]. The Service Management and Orchestration Framework and O- Cloud are connected and interact normally [2]. O-Cloud supports platform and resource management normally [3]. The PNF was constructed/installed but not activated Pre-conditions [4]. The VNF Software Package has been uploaded to the O-Cloud [5]. Secure network connectivity is already available between RAN components
- Note: security related procedure is FFS
The network operator/manager decides to deploy an O-RAN network in Begins when specific geo-location Step 1 (M) The service designer deploys Service Model and Artifacts to SMO Step 2 (M) SMO on boarding the VNF Descriptors for the service to the O-Cloud Step 3 (M) The radio planner orders RAN Service Deployment Step 4 (M) The SMO initiates the O-RAN Service instantiation The SMO interacts with O-Cloud to instantiate Near-RT RIC based on Step 5 (M) Near-RT RIC VNFD Step 6 (M) The O-Cloud creates VNF of Near-RT RIC The O-Cloud notifies the SMO the Near-RT RIC has been instantiated Step 7 (M) and SMO updates its inventory Step 8 (M) The SMO configures the Near-RT RIC Step 9 (M) the O-Cloud creates VNF of O-CU-CP The O-Cloud notifies the SMO the O-CU-CP has been instantiated and Step 10 (M) SMO updates its inventory Step 11 (M) The SMO prepares configuration, e.g. Near-RT RIC related Step 12 (M) The SMO configures the O-CU-CP The SMO interacts with O-Cloud to instantiate O-CU-UP, for multiple O- Step 13 (M) CU-UP VNF, the step 13 to 17 is circulated Step 14 (M) the O-Cloud creates VNF of O-CU-UP Step 15 (M) The O-Cloud notifies the SMO the O-CU-UP has been instantiated and SMO updates its inventory Step 16 (M) The SMO prepares configuration, e.g. Near-RT RIC, O-CU-CP related Step 17 (M) The SMO configures the O-CU-UP Step 18 (O) The SMO deploys xApp to Near-RT RIC Step 19 (O) After the above steps the Near-RT RIC could interact with O-CU-CP via E2 interface Step 20 (O) After the above steps the Near-RT RIC could interact with O-CU-UP via E2 interface Step 21 (M) SMO adds O-DU into inventory, e.g. with an O-DU.ID for each O-DU. For multiple O-DU this step is circulated Step 22 (M) SMO add O-RU into inventory in the O-DU record, e.g. with an O-RU.ID for each O-RU. For multiple O-DU this step is circulated Step 23 (M) The field technician powers on the O-DU Step 24 (M) The O-DU sends Registration to the SMO Note: controller address determined as per O-RAN-WG1.O1 Interface Specification Step 25 (M) The SMO registers the O-DU as on-line Step 26 (M) The SMO prepares O-DU configuration, e.g. related information from Near-RT RIC and O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP / O-RAN.WG1.OAM- <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Step 27 (M) The SMO configures the O-DU Note: includes NETCONF configuration as per O-RAN WG4.MP.0- v01.00 [12] Step 28 (O) The SMO could deploy xApp to O-DU Step 29 (O) After the above steps the Near-RT RIC could interact with O-DU via E2 interface Step 30 (M) The field technician powers on the O-RU Step 31 (M) The O-RU registers to the O-DU Note: detailed procedures as per O-RAN WG4.MP.0-v01.00 – additional actions for hybrid case not shown Step 32 (M) The O-DU sends Config Change Notification to the SMO indicating O- RU on-line Step 33 (M) The SMO registers the O-RU as on-line Step 34 (M) The SMO configures the O-RU via O-DU Step 35 (M) The O-DU gets O-RU configuration information from the SMO Step 36 (M) The O-DU configures the O-RU Step 37 (M) O-RU sends Registration to the SMO Note: procedure not currently supported in WG4.MP.0-v01.00 but details assumed as per O-RAN-WG1.O1 Interface Specification Step 38 (M) The SMO registers the O-RU as on-line Step 39 (M) The SMO prepares O-RU configuration, e.g. include co-related O-DU, etc. Step 40 (M) The SMO configures the O-RU All O-RAN network functions needed for service have been registered Ends when and configured; SMO holds current inventory of all O-RAN network functions Exceptions Not applicable Post Conditions The O-RAN network has been established and can provide service to customers REQ-M&O-FUN1, REQ-M&O-FUN2, REQ-M&O-FUN3, REQ-M&O- Traceability FUN4, REQ-M&O-FUN5, REQ-M&O-FUN6, REQ-M&O-FUN9, REQ- M&O-FUN10 / O-RAN.WG1.OAM- / O-RAN.WG1.OAM-

# 3 Figure 2.2.1-1: O-RAN Service Provisioning

### 2.2.2 O-RAN Measurement Data Collection

# 5 2.2.2.1 Basic Objective
In this use case, the Non-RT RIC as the intelligent management center located in Service Management and Orchestration Framework determines that measurement data is needed and interacts with the SMO OAM Functions to collect measurement data from network for AI/ML training/inference/analyzing, and then generate optimization operations in order to improve the end-to-end user service experience and the network performance. According to the Service Management and Orchestration Framework, to fulfill the Non-RT RIC requested data collection, the following capability should be supported by the SMO (framework): / O-RAN.WG1.OAM- i The SMO should support the MnS component Type A (defined in [6])generation and the corresponding operation performing (defined in [5] and [7]), according to the measurement data collection request from the

# 3 Non-RT RIC
ii The SMO (framework) should support the MnS component type C (defined in [6]) consumption such as the measurement data requested by the Non-RT RIC The current use case focuses on the Non-RT RIC requested measurement data collection and consumption, the SMO should generate the PM Job and perform the PM Job control operations accordingly, and the SMO (framework) should support the measurement data consumption by the Non-RT RIC.

# 9 Notes:
i In the O-RAN SMO framework, in order to avoid the PM Job confliction, it is suggested that the SMO take the responsibility for generating the PM Job and performing the PM Job control related operations. The resolution of conflict resolving by the SMO is FFS. ii In this use case, the network elements decide if the PM Job is acceptable or not, in other words, it is ultimately the network element (MnS producer) who decides whether the measurement data collection task can be established or not. iii Specifications for collecting infrastructure measurements do not yet exist. The Measurement Data Collection procedures will be updated to comply with [15] once WG6 has published the specification. iv The measurement data producer in the use case so far doesn’t refer to Network Slicing, but this will be added in the use case once the O-RAN network slice has been defined.

# 21 2.2.2.2 Entities/Resources involved
- Roles in the PM Job Control related operations:
a). The Non-RT RIC: PM Job initiator b). The SMO (framework): measurement service component type A consumer To fulfill the Non-RT RIC requested measurement data collection by the SMO on the O1/O2 interface, the information related to the collection task should comply with section2.3 defined in [13]. The measurement data collection information provided by the Non-RT RIC should be converted into a PM Job, and any management operations to the data collection task requested by the Non-RT RIC should be converted into the O1/O2 interface supported PM Job control related management service operations by the SMO.

# 30 • Roles in the NotifyFileReady subscribing:
a). SMO: management service component type A consumer (the referenceConsumer, defined in [5]) b). O-RAN MOs: Notification producer

# 33 • Roles in the measurement data consumption:
a). SMO: management service component type C consumer b). O-RAN MOs: streaming data producer c). File Server: storage the measurement data file

# 37 2.2.2.3 Solutions

# 38 2.2.2.3.1 Measurement Data Collection Creation
Table 2.2.2-1 shows the procedure of the Non-RT RIC requested measurement data collection task fulfilled by the SMO on the O1/O2 interface.

# 41 Table 2.2.2-1: Measurement Data Collection Creation
/ O-RAN.WG1.OAM- <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal O-RAN Measurement Data Collection [1]. Service Management and Orchestration Framework [2]. Non-RT RIC Actors and Roles [3]. O-Cloud [4]. O-RAN components/logical nodes, e.g. O-CU, O-DU, O-RU, Near-RT RIC. Assumptions None [1]. The SMO and the Non-RT RIC are connected and interact normally [2]. O-RAN components are in normal running status Pre-conditions [3]. Secure network connectivity is already available between RAN components
- Note: security related procedure is FFS
The Non-RT RIC determines that it needs measurement data from Begins when the O-RAN MOs and corresponding infrastructure resources, e.g., O- CU-CP instance and corresponding infrastructure resources The Non-RT RIC provides the information of the measurement data Step 1 (M) to the SMO Step 2 (M) The SMO generates a PM Job as the Non-RT RIC required The SMO performs PM Job control management to the O-CU-CP via Step 3.1 (M) the O1 interface, e.g. Operation createMeasurementJob defined in [7] The SMO performs PM Job control management to the O-Cloud over Step 3.2 (M) the O2 interface for the O-CU-CP infrastructure resource instance, e.g. Create PM Job operation defined in clause 7.7.2, [9] The measured O-CU-CP responds to the SMO with the PM Job Step 4.1 (M) creation result. The PM Job ID should be contained. The O-Cloud responds to the SMO with the PM Job creation result Step 4.2 (M) with the PM Job ID. The SMO subscribes to PM Notifications to the O-CU-CP instance via Step 5.1 (M) the O1 interface. The ConsumerReference defined in 7.1.1.3 [5] could be the SMO address The SMO subscribes to O-CU-CP related infrastructure resource Step 5.2 (M) instance PM data to the O-Cloud over the O2 interface The O-CU-CP instance provides the result of this operation to the Step 6.1 (M) SMO The O-Cloud provides the SMO with the result of the subscription to Step 6.2 (M) the O-CU-CP infrastructure resource instance The SMO provides the result of the measurement data collection Step 7 (M) establishment to the Non-RT RIC Ends when Non-RT RIC has measurement data Exceptions FFS The Non-RT RIC initiated measurement data collection has been fulfilled by the SMO; the measured O-RAN MOs generate measured Post Conditions data as the PM Job required. The subscription to the File Ready notification has been created successfully Traceability REQ-M&O-FUN7 / O-RAN.WG1.OAM-

# 3 Figure 2.2.2-1: Measurement Data Collection Creation

# 4 2.2.2.3.2 Measurement Data File Consumption

# 5 With the performance data file reporting method:
- The measurement data file could be stored in a file server, and the path should be contained in the

# 7 NotifyFileReady
- Once the measurement data file has been prepared, the O-CU-CP instance shall report the notification

# 9 NotifyFileReady to the SMO
/ O-RAN.WG1.OAM-

# 3 Figure 2.2.2-2: Measurement Data File Consumption

# 4 2.2.2.3.3 Measurement Streaming Data Consumption

# 5 With the streaming reporting method:
- The consumer related information was taken to the producer in the operation of performance data collection
creation.
- The performance data streaming service producer shall establish streaming connection(s) to the consumer, in this
use case, the O-CU-CP instance act as the performance data streaming service producer and the SMO as the consumer.
- The O-CU-CP instance shall send measured data on the established connection(s).
The table 2.2.2-3 shows the streaming connection(s) establishment and streaming data consumption.

# 13 Table 2.2.2-3: Measurement Streaming Data Consumption
/ O-RAN.WG1.OAM- <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal O-RAN Measurement Data Collection [1]. Service Management and Orchestration Framework [2]. Non-RT RIC Actors and Roles [3]. O-Cloud [4]. O-RAN components/logical nodes, e.g. O-CU, O-DU, O-RU, Near-RT RIC. Assumptions None [1]. The SMO and the Non-RT RIC are connected and interact normally [2]. O-RAN components are in normal running status Pre-conditions [3]. Secure network connectivity is already available between RAN components
- Note: security related procedure is FFS
The O-CU-CP instance starts streaming connection(s) establishment Begins when to the SMO, and reports the measured data as the PM Job required The O-CU-CP instance interworks with the SMO to establish Step 1 (M) streaming connection(s). the connection(s) should not be released until the PM Job is stopped The O-CU-CP instance reports the measured data to the SMO as the Step 2.1 (M) PM Job required via the streaming connection(s) The O-Cloud reports the infrastructure resource measured data to the Step 2.2 (O) SMO Ends when SMO receives measured data Exceptions FFS The streaming connection(s) has been established between the O- Post Conditions CU-CP instance and the SMO successfully. The SMO consumed the measured data successfully Traceability REQ-M&O-FUN7 / O-RAN.WG1.OAM-

# 3 OAM Architecture

## 3.1 Architectural Principles
The following section provides architecture principals guiding the support of OAM in the O-RAN architecture. Common OAM functions should be supported through a common set of OAM interface protocols across the different components of the O-RAN architecture Management Services should, to the degree possible, align with existing standards specifications:

# 8  3GPP 5G Specifications for management interfaces

# 9  ETSI NFV Specifications for life cycle management
 O-RAN WG4.MP.0-v01.00 (Future enhancements to align to 3GPP can be considered.) O-RAN OAM specifications should refer to the 3GPP and ETSI specs and not replicate them here. O-RAN OAM specifications must identify needed extensions to support O-RAN and exceptions which cannot be supported. It is the goal of O-RAN to drive any needed extensions into standards to maintain alignment between O-RAN and existing standards.

## 3.2 Architecture Requirements
Defines the Architecture requirements applicable to the O-RAN reference architecture. Architecture requirements are derived from Use Cases to be supported and define the functional needs the architecture aims to satisfy. The initial set of requirements in this document are derived from the O-RAN Service Provisioning Use Case. More requirements may be added in future versions of the OAM Architecture.

### 3.2.1 Functional Requirements
REQ Description Note O-RAN OAM Architecture must support the interaction between the Service [REQ-M&O-FUN1] Management and Orchestration Framework and the O-Cloud through O2 Use Case interface to perform virtualized resource orchestration. O-RAN- O-RAN OAM Architecture must support the capability for the Service WG1.OAM Management and Orchestration Framework to consume the provisioning [REQ-M&O-FUN2] Interface management service exposed by each O-RAN managed element, whether Specification implemented as PNF or VNF, through the O1 interface. [13] O-RAN OAM Architecture must support creation, modification and Use Case [REQ-M&O-FUN3] termination of VNFs in an O-RAN network by the Service Management and Orchestration Framework O-RAN OAM Architecture must support registration and inventory of newly Use Case [REQ-M&O-FUN4] activated VNFs and PNFs by the Service Management and Orchestration Framework O-RAN OAM Architecture must support collection of status change and Use Case [REQ-M&O-FUN5] other indications from VNFs and PNFs by the Service Management and Orchestration Framework O-RAN OAM Architecture must support configuration of VNFs and PNFs Use Case [REQ-M&O-FUN6] by the Service Management and Orchestration Framework, including, for example, addressing information needed to allow them to connect to each / O-RAN.WG1.OAM- other O-RAN OAM Architecture must support management of PM jobs, PM data Use Case [REQ-M&O-FUN7] collection/storage/query/statistical reports from O-RAN Components O-RAN OAM Architecture must support operation logging and operation Use Case to [REQ-M&O-FUN8] authority of Managed Elements be added O-RAN OAM Architecture must support management of Managed ETSI 3GPP [REQ-M&O-FUN9] Functions contained within a Managed Element TS 28.622 O-RAN OAM Architecture must support hierarchical and hybrid Use Case & [REQ-M&O-FUN10] management of O-RAN O-DU and O-RU components as defined in O-RAN- O-RAN MP WG4.MP.0-v01.00 Spec [12] O-RAN OAM Architecture and interfaces must support network slicing, Use Case to [REQ-M&O-FUN11] where an instance of O-RAN managed function may be associated with one be added or more slices. O-RAN- O-RAN OAM Architecture must support O1 interface for all Managed WG1.OAM [REQ-M&O-FUN12] Elements (with the exception of the RU) even if the Managed Element is Interface deployed behind a NAT Specification [13]

### 3.2.2 Non-Functional Requirements
O-RAN O-RAN OAM Architecture must support the introduction of new and more [REQ-M&O-NFUN1] white paper cost-effective technologies into the RAN through open, standard interfaces [11] O-RAN O-RAN OAM Architecture must support virtualization of RAN components, [REQ-M&O-NFUN2] white paper allowing operators use of common, off-the-shelf hardware implementations [11] O-RAN OAM Architecture must support use of Analytics and Artificial O-RAN [REQ-M&O-NFUN3] Intelligence/Machine Learning to improve network efficiency and white paper performance and reduce operations costs [11]

### 3.2.3 Security Requirements
O-RAN OAM Architecture must support security of interactions between the See note [REQ-M&O-NFUN4] components of an O-RAN network Note: more detailed requirements for security will be addressed in future versions of the OAM Architecture.

## 3.3 Reference Architecture
The reference architecture defines a set of basic architectural building blocks – management services, managed functions and managed elements – for the O-RAN management domain.

### 3.3.1 Architectural Building Blocks

# 10 3.3.1.1 Management Services
O-RAN Management Services offer capabilities to manage and orchestrate managed elements. Managed elements expose their management services to managers. Managers consume the management services. / O-RAN.WG1.OAM-

# 3  Fault Supervision

# 4  Performance Assurance

# 5  Trace Management

# 6  File Management

# 7  Software Management

# 8  Communication Surveillance
 Startup and Registration of a Physical Network Function (PNF)  Instantiation and Termination of a Virtualized Network Function (VNF)

# 11  Scaling Management Services for VNF
'The definition of supported management services and their APIs will be covered in the OAM O1 Interface specification [13].

# 14 3.3.1.2 Managed Elements
The definition of a Managed Element (ME) is given in 3GPP TS 28.622 [3] section 4.3.3. The ME is an IOC that supports communication over management interface(s) to the manager for purposes of control and monitoring.

# 17 Examples of O-RAN Managed Elements include:
 O-RAN Managed Functions deployed individually as MEs (e.g., Near-RT RIC ME, CU-CP ME, CU-UP ME,

# 19 O-DU ME, O-RU ME).
 Central Unit (CU) composed of CU-CP and CU-UP  ME composed of Near-RT RIC, CU-CP, CU-UP, DU and RU A variety of deployment examples and their OAM interfaces are given in a later section. Choice of deployment options will be based on operator requirements. A key motivation for the Managed Element concept is that an ME is a tightly integrated and tested group of MFs that are deployed together. This has implications on how software updates are managed, because all software updates need to retain the property that all MFs in the ME have been tested together. Depending on the deployment scenario and other considerations, the MFs may be grouped in different ways. An interface is required to each ME, which can manage the communications to each MF that is contained within it. Following sections present many examples of how the O1 interface can connect to either an ME that contains an individual MF, or to an integrated ME that contains multiple MFs.

# 31 3.3.1.3 Managed Functions
The definition of a Managed Function (MF) is given in 3GPP TS 28.622 [3] section 4.3.4. An MF instance is managed using the management interface(s) exposed by its containing ME instance.

# 34 O-RAN managed functions include:

# 35  Near-Real-Time Radio Intelligent Controller (Near-RT RIC)

# 36  O-RAN Central Unit – Control Plane (O-CU-CP)

# 37  O-RAN Central Unit – User Plane (O-CU-UP)

# 38  O-RAN Distributed Unit (O-DU)
/ O-RAN.WG1.OAM-

# 19 3.3.1.5 Service Management and Orchestration Framework
Service Management and Orchestration Framework is responsible for the management and orchestration of the managed elements under its span of control. The framework can for example be a third-party Network Management

# 22 System (NMS) or orchestration platform.
Service Management and Orchestration Framework must provide an integration fabric and data services for the managed functions. The integration fabric enables interoperation and communication between managed functions within the O-RAN domain. Data services provide efficient data collection, storage and movement capabilities for the managed functions. In order to implement multiple OAM architecture options together with RAN service modeling, the modeling of different OAM deployment options and OAM services (integration fabric etc.) must be supported by SMO

# 28 3.3.1.6 Non-Real Time Radio Intelligent Controller
The non-RT RIC is a part of the Service Management & Orchestration Framework and communicates to the near-RT

# 30 RIC using the A1 interface. [11]
Non-RT control functionality (> 1s) and near-Real Time (near-RT) control functions (< 1s) are decoupled in the RIC. Non-RT functions include service and policy management, RAN analytics and model-training for some of the near-RT

# 33 RIC functionality, and non-RT RIC optimization.

# 34 3.3.1.7 Control Loop Support
O-RAN defines 3 control loops with different latency bands [11]. It is not expected that these loops are hierarchical but instead run in parallel. This does not mean that an ME with an inner loop will not generate its own event as result of an inner loop failure, but it will not simply propagate the lower level event received by the inner loop. The three loops are roughly defined as:
- Loop 1: In the DU for per TTI/msec resource scheduling (<10 millisecond)
- Loop 2: In the Near-RT RIC and CU for resource optimization (10 milliseconds to 1 second)
- Loop 3: In the Service Management and Orchestration Framework for ML Training, Trending, Orchestration (>

# 42 1 second)
/ O-RAN.WG1.OAM-

### 3.3.2 Basic OAM Architecture

# 4 Figure 3.3.2-1 O-RAN OAM Logical Architecture
Figure 3.3.2-1 shows the overall O-RAN OAM Logical Architecture. In the original white paper [11], the interface between the Manager and the O-RAN components for control purposes was identified as A1. The O-RAN OAM Architecture adds another interface for OAM functions, labeled O1 (OAM). O1 is the interface between the O-RAN Managed Element and the management entity. Note: the figure uses 5G terminology, however the same principles will apply for LTE/4G. Mapping to LTE/4G may be added in future. O-RAN OAM also adds the O2 interface for management of the O-Cloud, which has different requirements from the O1 interface and as defined in [21]. The O1 OAM Interface includes implementation of Fault, Configuration, Accounting, Performance, Security (FCAPS) functions, File management and Software management functions to ME (s) virtualized and physical alike. For details of the management services supported by O1, see [13]. The O2 OAM Interface enables the management of O-Cloud infrastructures and the deployment life cycle management of O-RAN cloudified NFs that run on an O-Cloud. For details of the functions supported by O2, see [21]. As shown in the figure, there is a logical OAM interface to individual O-RAN Managed Functions, however in practice the grouping of Managed Functions into Managed Elements will determine where actual O1 interfaces are terminated. More detail is explained in subsequent sections. The O1 interface could be the terminated directly on the Service Management & Orchestration Framework or in a hierarchical model could be terminated on a Managed Element which manages other O-RAN Managed Functions. The sections below identify possible management topologies, for example, the basic “flat” model of OAM relationships as well as the hierarchical model of O-DU to O-RU relationship and the hybrid model of O-DU to O-RU relationship defined in the O-RAN Front Haul M-Plane specification, as well as example deployment options.

### 3.3.3 OAM Models and Deployment Options
This section provides examples of possible models and deployments of Managed Functions into Managed Elements. Adoption of a single model is not required in the O-RAN OAM Architecture, rather multiple model deployments may be supported in a network. / O-RAN.WG1.OAM-

# 3 Figure 3.3.3-1: Flat Model
In the Flat management model, all the MFs comprising the O-RAN architecture are also MEs and expose an O1 interface to the SMO. Note: The Open Fronthaul M-Plane does not support a flat management model for the O-RU. NM/orchestration platforms provide a distributed deployment model of NM functions which allows for greater scaling and lower latency functions that traditional centralized monolithic NM implementations. In this specification, no specific platform is required, however the NM is assumed to have orchestration capabilities. Therefore, deployment of SMOs, analytics, configuration and control functions can be potentially collocated with some of the NEs. This allows for localized processing and localized scaling to handle the expected large number of NEs to be managed. The NM functions can be distributed across the network edge and therefore handle a logically flat architecture.

# 12 3.3.3.2 Hierarchical Management Architecture Model
Where the distributed NM architecture is not available it may be desirable to deploy a hierarchical management architecture where a higher level ME is used to manage a subnetwork of MEs as shown in Figure 3.3.3-2, where the O- DU manages the O-RU using the Open Front Haul M-Plane interface.

# 17 Figure 3.3.3-2: Hierarchical Model Example
In the example of the figure 3-3, the O-RU is managed by the Open Fronthaul M-Plane interface to the O-DU rather than the Service Management & Orchestration Framework, so there is a hierarchical relationship between Service / O-RAN.WG1.OAM- Management & Orchestration and the O-DU. The O-DU must provide a consistent and standardized view of the subtending O-RUs as specified above.

# 3 3.3.3.3 Hybrid Management Architecture Model
In the Hybrid management architecture, the O-RU is managed partially by the O-DU and partially by the SMO. The management by O-DU is via the Open Fronthaul M-Plane, and the SMO manages the O-RU through a direct interface. Note: The O-RU currently supports hybrid mode using an Open Fronthaul M-Plane logical direct interface defined in the Open Fronthaul M-Plane specification [12] between the O-RU and SMO. This direct interface may be augmented with an O1 Interface at some time in the future, as in [17].

# 13 Figure 2.3.3-3: Hybrid Model
Management responsibility is divided in this case between the O-DU and the Service Management & Orchestration Framework. Open Fronthaul M-Plane interface in the figure is defined in [12]. The O-RU supports connection to multiple clients as well as access control that can be used to control the privileges available to a particular client in Open Fronthaul M-Plane [12]. The alignment between the Open Fronthaul M-Plane and O1 interfaces is for further study.

# 19 3.3.3.4 Example Managed Deployment Options
In aggregated equipment, the Managed Element contains multiple internal Managed Functions. This section provides a number of examples showing how the OAM architecture is applied to different groupings of Managed Functions into Managed Elements. Use cases associated with different deployment options are defined in [15]. Figure 3.3.3-4 shows a single Managed Element that contains CU-CP, CU-UP, O-DU and O-RU Managed Functions. / O-RAN.WG1.OAM-

# 8 Figure 3.3.3-7: Example with Three MEs
Figure 3.3.3-7 shows an alternative example with three Managed Elements containing the Near-RT RIC/CU-CP, the CU-UP, and the O-DU and O-RU Managed Functions, respectively. Again, the O1 interfaces from the MEs provide a consistent and standardized view of the contained Managed Functions. Finally, Figure 3.3.3-8 shows a similar grouping of Managed Functions, but with the Near-RT RIC separated as its own

# 13 Managed Element. The same architectural concepts apply.
/ O-RAN.WG1.OAM- Figure 3.3.3-8: Example with Three MEs including Standalone Near-RT RIC

# 3 3.3.4 Managed Elements Deployed behind a NAT
Service Providers prefer to not deploy Managed Elements (ME) behind a NAT, but there are cases where this cannot be avoided, for example:

# 6  exhaustion of public IPv4 addresses
 managed elements deployed in large complexes not owned by the Service Provider (Apartments, Sports

# 8 Venues etc.)
 managed elements connected via third-party networks using a NAT When a Service Provider deploys managed elements behind a NAT it is critical that they are able to retain full management control of these elements.

# 15 Figure 3.3.4.1 O-RAN MEs behind a NAT
Four methods of providing the O-RAN Manager with the ability to address a ME behind a NAT and identify data received from a ME behind a NAT are recommended in priority order: 1. ME uses IPv6 as Backhaul transport where possible eliminating the need for a NAT - exhaustion of public

# 20 IPv4 addresses
2. ME establishes persistent VPN tunnel (e.g. IPSec) toward a VPN concentrator (gateway) located outside of network with the NAT. The ME is then accessible through the established tunnel. 3. ME uses a standard protocol (UPNP or PCP) to establish a port-forwarding rule at the firewall and automatically assign itself a port. / O-RAN.WG1.OAM- 4. Service Provider manually configures the firewall to assign a port to each ME that resides within the protected network. / O-RAN.WG1.OAM-

# 4 Application Lifecycle Management (LCM)
This chapter describes Lifecycle Management of applications that are developed by a Solution Provider and delivered to a Service Provider or Network Operator for deployment in O-RAN. The chapter’s current focus is on LCM of rApps and xApps, as defined in [17]. Lifecycle Management follows the basic models of a Software Development Lifecycle by defining the transitional information from one state to another. There are several Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) definitions. For the purposes of discussion this document generally follows a 7-state model as shown in Figure 4- 3. Some states might also include activities that align with other states. However, this level of detail is not depicted here in order to introduce those details later in the document.

# A Service Provider or Network Operator has needs which are fulfilled by a Solution
Provider. Once the Solution Provider delivers the application it is validated in a test environment prior to giving to operations to deploy. Usage of the deployed application may result in changes to configuration by the Service Provider or may be feedback to Solution Providers to evolve the capabilities of the network and/or its management. Although applications may come in many forms the delivery from the Solution Provider to the Service Provider needs to be done in a standardized manner. The seven steps Figure 4-3: Generalized defined in the SDLC are high level. Each may break down into a set of finer grain steps. Lifecycle

## 4.1 Scope
The end-to-end lifecycle involves two entities, the Solution Provider and the Service Provider. The Solution Provider provides applications for the Service Provider to use in their network. The working flow could be summarized as three phases: Development, Onboarding and Operations, as shown in Figure 4.1-4.

# 26 Figure 4.1-4 Application Lifecycle Phases
These applications need to be onboarded in a common manner, regardless of how they are deployed. This document focuses on the data that must be included in the App Package as it is exchanged between the Solution Provider and the Service Provider. This exchange is referred to as the "SP" exchange. This is not a formal interface between systems and therefore is not denoted as other O-RAN interfaces are. Care is given as not to put implementation or tooling mandates on either the Solution Provider in their development of the application, or the Service Provider in the aspect of training or deploying the application. Aspects of the lifecycle across both parties are introduced. However, not all aspects are discussed. Instead the focus is on those activities that affect the data contained in the SP Exchange. Later in this document the term "Service Planning" is used to represent activities internal to the Service Provider. This is not the / O-RAN.WG1.OAM- same as the "SP Exchange" used to describe the data passed from the Solution Provider to the Service Provider. The method of the SP Exchange is not defined in this document. It is sometimes referred to as the "Marketplace". The marketplace can be implemented by either the solution provider, the service provider, and an external entity to both. The Marketplace simply represents an exchange between entities which could be done by electronic means or physical media. The App Development will provide application solutions w/wo AI/ML models, while “App Onboard” and “App Operate” will be responsible for application onboarding and operations. Considering the data privacy and security requirements, the application development could be completed in the environment provided by the Service Provider. Applications utilize AI/ML models or not. Therefore, although the Model Information may be optional in the package, we will focus on the data exchange requirements for applications with AI/ML models as the superset.

### 4.1.1 Information Model
An Entity Relationship Diagram (ERD) is a way to pictorially show relationships and cardinality between "Entities". Entities can be anything, physical, logical, or conceptual. They usually have some attributes to differentiate one instance from another. The entities relationship is identified with a connector which uses symbols at both ends to show the cardinality between the entities. The symbol represents the cardinality of the far end to the entity near the symbol. These basic concepts are shown in Figure 4.1-5 Entity Relationship Diagram Basic ComponentsFigure 4.1-5. Some other notations are fields marked as a Primary Key (PK), a Foreign Key (FK), or an Alternate Key (AK). Numbers may be appended to show when multiple fields are combined to create a unique key value.

# 20 Figure 4.1-5 Entity Relationship Diagram Basic Components
The following ERD diagram illustrates the composition of the Application Package. An Application Package is the basic unit exchanged between the Solution Provider and Service Provider. The attributes of the entities in the diagram are representative. The actual contents are FFS and will be refined in a later release of this document. / O-RAN.WG1.OAM-

# 3 Figure 4.1-6 Application Package Entity Relationship Diagram
The following modifiers can be pre-pended to Information Model Elements to indicate context: "Solution" The version of the element as defined by the Solution Provider "Onboarded" The initial version of the catalogued elements created during onboarding. "Catalogue" Subsequent versions of the catalogued package or its elements which may have been adjusted by the Service Provider. The "Application Package" contains a Metadata repository with metadata files in YAML [21] format. It also contains a security metadata file in YAML format which describes the procedures used for ensuring the integrity of the software contained in the package. The Application Package also contains repositories for Deployment Configurations, Application Types, and Deployable Components. An optional repository for ML Models is supplied for Application Packages with one or more application types employing ML technology. ML Models may be pre-trained by the Solution Provider and therefore provide initial Training History. The Service Provider may also train the model or retrain the model with a more specialized data set, this is called specialization. The Training History provides the mechanism to record all training and subsequent specializations applied to that training through the Training History. An example of specialization is a ML Model created to predict the flow of traffic volumes. This algorithm can be generally trained to follow road patterns for devices with a velocity greater than 20 miles per hour. This training could be done by the Solution Provider on a generalized or open data set and recording in the Solution Training History. After onboarding the Service Provider may provide specialized training for dense urban traffic patterns which don't always follow the roads due to periodic traffic congestion This would be an additional Training History record added by the Service Provider and referenced as specialization in the Catalogue Training History. Further refinement could also be applied for specific cities such as New York, Los Angeles, or San Francisco which would now add 3 specializations Catalogue Training History records relating to the dense urban Catalogue Training History which is a specialization if the Onboarded Training History. / O-RAN.WG1.OAM- Once a Catalogue Deployment Configuration is validated as safe for use in operations it is published to a runtime environment as a Published Deployment Configuration. Runtime instance data can be applied to the Published Deployment Configuration. Application Types deployed as part of this activity are call an App Instance. An APP Instance running in the Non-RT RIC Runtime can be referred to as an rAPP instance. An App Instance running in the near-RT RIC Runtime can be referred to as an xApp instance. An App Instance running in a training environment is referred to as a Training App instance.

### 4.1.2 Diagramming Legend
The legend depicted in Figure 4.1-7 is used across all lifecycle diagrams in this section and is shown once so it is not required on every diagram. Bolded text on a diagram is an item identified as requiring further discussion later in the document. Text in Italics are items identified for completeness but not requiring further discussion. Meet-Me-Points (MMPs) are places where a major aspect of the lifecycle interchanges. Data may be exchanged through these MMPs but the exact mechanism of the exchange is outside the scope of this document. Destination or Decision points are color coded according to their user community. Destination or Decision points are not a contributing factor to the data demands of the "SP" Exchange and are therefore not named. Instead the actions or conditions that are used as a transition between points are named as the items of interest.

# 17 Figure 4.1-7: Life Cycle Diagram Legend

### 4.1.3 App Development Lifecycles
In the App Development Lifecycle only two types are defined, the Solution App Package and the Solution App Type.

# 20 4.1.3.1 Solution App Type Lifecycle
The Development Lifecycle steps related the Solution App Type are shown below in Figure 4.1-8错误！未找到引用

# 22 源。.
/ O-RAN.WG1.OAM-

# 10 4.1.3.2 Solution App Package Lifecycle
The Development Lifecycle steps related the Solution App Package are shown below in Figure 4.1-9.

# 13 Figure 4.1-9: Solution App Package App Development Lifecycle
The Solution App Package is used to convey the Solution App Type through the onboarding process to the Service Provider. It begins by pulling the Application App Type out of its repository and placing it in the package as mandated by the exchange requirements. Next security is applied such that the Service Provider can ensure that an Onboarded Application Package did in fact come from the expected Solution Provider. The secure package, Solution App Package, is then delivered to the Service Provider for onboarding. / O-RAN.WG1.OAM-

### 4.1.4 App Onboarding Lifecycles
The App Onboarding phase deals with establishing configuration, policies, measurements, and required analytics. The App Onboarding Phase is involved with both App Packages and App Types, each with its own steps and associated actions. These will be treated separately.

# 5 4.1.4.1 Onboarded App Package Lifecycles
The Service Design steps associated with an Onboarded App Package are shown below: Figure 4.1-10: Onboarded App Package Service Provider Configuration Lifecycle An App Package is onboarded from the exchange, and its content verified. If valid, its contents (App Types) are unpacked and the Onboarded App Package and associated Onboarded App Types catalogued. If invalid, the Service Provider can provide App Package-level feedback to the Solution Provider via the Marketplace.

# 12 4.1.4.2 Onboarded App Type Lifecycles
The App Onboarding Phase for Onboarded App Types is split between normal processing for all applications, named "Configuration", and the lifecycle for "Training" App Types with included AI/ML Models. Workflow can interchange between these cycles iteratively. We will treat each of these separately below.

# 17 4.1.4.2.1 Onboarded App Type Configuration Lifecycle
The Service Operator Configuration steps associated with an Onboarded App Type are shown below: Figure 4.1-11 Onboarded App Type Service Provider Configuration Lifecycle Onboarded App Types are made visible in the SMO environment when published into the catalogue. Each recommended configuration of the App Type is certified prior to publication to a runtime library. If Certification fails, then Service Planning will determine the next course of action. Service Planning aggregates “fix” requests from Configuration which can be passed back to the Solution Provider (at the App Package level) as feedback across the SP interface of the Marketplace Exchange. This exchange also aggregates “change” requests from Configuration or Operations and determines if the request is for additional development (a “feature” request) or additional training (a “training” request). The former would be aggregated and / O-RAN.WG1.OAM- passed back to the Solution Provider via the SP interface as described above for “fix” requests. For the latter, the

# 7 4.1.4.2.2 App Type Training Lifecycle
The Service Operator Training Lifecycle associated with a Training App Type is shown below: Figure 4.1-12: Training App Type Service Provider Training Lifecycle When a training request is received then resources within the training environment are scheduled for the application. Data is collected and groomed for training after which a training iteration is executed. At the end of the training cycle a test set is applied to the model and accuracy is calculated. If the test fails or other metadata indicates more training iterations are required, then the cycle repeats. Once the model is adequately trained it is promoted and sent back to service planning for continuation in another lifecycle. Inside the "Training Lifecycle" the process MAY require multiple iterations of training before being returned to the

# 17 Service Planning MMP.
The iteration count SHALL be included in the specialization metadata info. / O-RAN.WG1.OAM-

### 4.1.5 App Operation Lifecycles
There can be many runtime environments in the service providers’ network. Some can be production while others might be for non-production execution, such as offline training and lab certification. For this document we will focus on the runtime aspects of rApps, which execute within the Non-RT RIC as part of the SMO, and the xApps which execute in the near-RT RIC as part of the RAN. Although they have the same lifecycle steps the data demands due to their operational environment are different and therefore need to be independently addressed.

# 7 4.1.5.1 App Instance Lifecycles

# 9 Figure 4.1-13: Service Provider Runtime Lifecycles
After the App Instance is created through a deploy operation it is monitored. As monitoring reports the health and workload of the application it is scaled up and down based on demand. Based on monitoring result, a series of operation and management functions are triggered, such as alert management, event management, incident management and further analysis. The analysis results can be guidance for further actions such as termination, healing and scaling. Finally, when its job is completed the instance is terminated. While in operation the service provider may discover defects, performance issues, or identify new features that would be beneficial. Such issue or change request will be communicated to the Service planning where the Application could be retrained or updated. The information can also be sent via the Service Planning to the Solution Provider as feedback. Operations determine when an application is deployed, or undeployed. Since applications are atomic, the update process is an orchestrated process of deploy and terminate. It is possible for two versions to be active at the same time, but care must be given not to provide overlapping scopes to the application instances, otherwise they may give differing directives to the network in a random order. This could cause a destabilization of the network.

## 4.2 Common Application Lifecycle Conclusions
The initial conclusion of Common Application Lifecycle procedures is that there is a formalized exchange between the Solution Provider and the Service Provider, the "SP Exchange". The SP Exchange consists of data describing the package and its security. The package also contains information regarding Deployment Configurations, Application Types, Deployable Components, and potentially ML Models. Further details regarding the composition of these areas will be defined through analysis of the Actions identified in section 4.1 as an action requiring further analysis (Bolded). / O-RAN.WG1.OAM- Appendix A: Cardinality This informative Appendix provides background information regarding the cardinality of different O-RAN architecture elements. It is not intended as a requirement on cardinality. The RAN network has an expected hierarchical fan out. Therefore, the O-RAN sizing would be:

# 5 - Non-RT RIC (1..j)

# 6 - Near-RT RIC (1..k)

# 7 - CU-CP (1..m)

# 8 - CU-UP (1..n)

# 9 - O-DU (1..p)

# 10 - O-RU (1..q)

# 11 Where: 1<=j; j<=k; k<=m; m<=n; m<=p; p<=q
Due to resiliency and scaling aspects of cloud implementations an O-DU will logically be connected to one CU-CP. The CU-CP may in fact be a pool of CU-CP instances to handle loads. CU-UP MEs will be pooled and aligned with the services they are configured to serve. The CU-CP will assign the CU- UP that an O-DU needs to connect to for a given UE session. An O-DU may serve many O-RU MEs depending on its designed capacity to manage the loop 1 processing. One Near-RT RIC will be connected to multiple CU-CP, CU-UP, and O-DU MEs. For resiliency the MEs may be connected to more than one Near-RT RIC, however, it shall not require duplication of data to be sent to each RIC instance.

# A Near-RT RIC will be connected to one non-RT RIC.
/ O-RAN.WG1.OAM- Appendix B: Sequence Diagram Template This section provides a common template for the description of end-to-end use cases.

# 3 B.1 Installing the PlantUML plugin for windows

# 4 Follow the installation instructions found at: https://github.com/plantuml/word-template

# 5 The plantuml.jar file can be downloaded from: http://sourceforge.net/projects/plantuml/files/plantuml.jar/download
The word “*.dotm” file to use would be in the “Template_Word_16” (https://github.com/plantuml/word- template/tree/master/Template_Word_2016) link. Once you have the plugin installed you can select “Show PlantUML” which will unhide the text used to generate the diagrams.

# 10 B.2 Plant UML Colors
The following Palette are the named colors recognized by PlantUML. Colors can also be defined by RGB Hexcode

# 12 (RRGGBB).

# 13 @startuml
colors

# 15 @enduml

# 17 B.3 Depicting human actors as participants
The participant type Actor should be used. For Clarity these should be the first group and therefore always on the left side of the diagram. The color “#lightblue” has been identified as the background for this group of use case participants.

# 20 @startuml

# 21 Box “Personnel” #lightblue

# 22 Actor FT as “Field Technician”

# 23 Actor RP as “Radio Planner”

# 24 End box

# 25 @enduml
/ O-RAN.WG1.OAM- At times it may be desirable to identify external data sources. These would be presented using the same color as personnel but be titled as Non-RAN Data. The Source of the data would be identified as an “Entity”. The list of these could be immense but small within the context of a use case. Therefore, a few examples are shown below, and is not intended to be an exhaustive list.

# 6 @startuml

# 7 Box “Non-RAN Data” #lightblue

# 8 Entity weather as “Weather Data”

# 9 Entity fire as “Fire Data”

# 10 Entity earth as “Earthquake Data”

# 11 Entity subs as “Subscriber Data”

# 12 End box

# 13 @enduml

# 16 B.4 Depicting Service Management and Orchestration Participants
Service Management and Orchestration participants can vary by type. The following UML shows the standard types for defined participants. Participants can be deleted when not pertinent to the use case but additional participants should be avoided unless they are defined in the O-RAN Architecture Description [17] or other O-RAN specifications. For consistency SMO should be the second group unless the personnel group is not required which would make this the first group. The color “#gold” has been identified as the background for this group of use case participants. The O-RAN Architecture [17] identifies three types of functions in SMO: FCAPS for O-RAN Network Functions(named here as “OAM Functions”), Non-RT RIC, and O-Cloud Management, Orchestration and Workflow Management. The O2 General Aspects and Principles [21] further distinguishes between management of the distribution of O-Cloud software and orchestration for O-Cloud life cycle processes, called “Federated O-Cloud Operations and Management”, or “FOCOM”, and coordination between SMO and the O-Cloud for managing deployment life cycle events and operational processes, called “Network Function Orchestration”, or “NFO”. These are shown as participants in the UML as below.

# 29 @startuml

# 30 Box “Service Orchestration and Management Framework” #gold
participant NFO participant SMO as “OAM Functions”

# 33 Collections RPGF as “non-RT RIC”

# 34 Participant FOCOM
/ O-RAN.WG1.OAM-

# 3 @enduml

# 6 B.5 Depicting Cloud Platform Participants
As described in the O-Ran Architecture Description [17] the Cloud platform has two roles. These are depicted by the management of the O-Cloud as a platform. The Deployment Management Services (DMS) provides management of Deployments using the O-Cloud resources. Like in the SMO the internal software modules and components to the O- Cloud can vary from implementation to implementation. Therefore it is not advised to add additional entities unless it is unavoidable for the use case. The color “#lightseagreen” has been identified as the background for this group of use case participants.

# 14 @startuml

# 15 Box “O-Cloud Platform” #lightseagreen
participant IMS participant DMS

# 18 End box

# 19 @enduml

# 21 B.6 O-RAN Managed Elements as participants
The O-RAN architecture defines 5 Managed Functions (MF) which can be deployed independently or aggregated in different ways into a Managed Element (ME). The O-CU is a predefined aggregation of the O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP.

# 24 @startuml

# 25 Box “O-RAN” #lightpink

# 26 Participant RIC as “near-RT RIC”

# 27 Participant OCUCP as “O-CU-CP”

# 28 Participant OCUUP as “O-CU-UP”

# 29 Participant OCU as “O-CU”

# 30 Participant ODU as “O-DU”

# 31 Participant ORU as “O-RU”

# 33 @enduml
/ O-RAN.WG1.OAM-

# 5 @startuml

# 6 Box “3GPP RAN” #Tan

# 7 Participant eNB

# 8 Participant gNB

# 9 Participant CU

# 10 Participant DU

# 11 Endbox

# 12 @enduml

# 14 B.8 Messaging
Autonumber should be used so that individual messages in a diagram can be easily referenced in conversation. Synchronous calls have an implicit return or the return can be implicitly depicted, often after a long block so as to provide clarity of where processing continues. Some use cases can be used with a start message and end with either a message or response. This is helpful when a common block can be used multiple times.

# 19 @startuml

# 20 Autonumber

# 21 Participant One

# 22 Participant Two
[-> One : Use Case incoming message

# 24 One -> Two: Synchronous Call

# 25 Two ->> One : Asynchronous message

# 26 One -> One : Call to Self

# 27 Two ->] : Use Case outgoing message

# 28 Two --> One : Explicit Synchronous Return
[<-- One : Use Case Return Message

# 30 @enduml
/ O-RAN.WG1.OAM-

# 4 @startuml

# 5 Autonumber

# 6 Participant One

# 7 Participant Two

# 8 Note over One
Notes can be used and placed over a lifeline

# 10 To describe something happening along that line

# 11 End note
[-> One : Use Case incoming message

# 13 Rnote over One, Two
Notes can be a simple rectangle instead of the standard Note above and can be spanning multiple life lines to

# 16 Describe the interaction about to occur
endrnote

# 18 One -> Two: Synchronous Call

# 19 Hnote right One

# 20 The can be hexagonal and to the Right

# 21 Endhnote

# 22 Hnote over One

# 23 Over
endhnote

# 25 Hnote left One

# 26 Or Left of a lifeline
endhnote

# 28 Two -> Two :
Note Right : Messages on notes can\nbe used to describe\ninternal processing\nwithout adding to\nparticpant spacing.

# 31 Two ->> One : Asynchronous message
Note Left: Message Notes can be\nright or left of the\nmessage but must be\nimmediately after the\nmessage they are noting.

# 34 Note over One #fuchsia
Note backgrounds can be **changed** as //well// as the __text__

# 36 End note

# 37 One -> One : Call to Self

# 38 Two ->] : Use Case outgoing message

# 39 Two --> One : Explicit Synchronous Return
[<-- One : Use Case Return Message

# 41 @enduml
/ O-RAN.WG1.OAM-

# 6 @startuml

# 7 Autonumber

# 8 Participant One

# 9 Participant Two
[-> One : Use Case incoming message / O-RAN.WG1.OAM-

# 3 Two ->] : Use Case outgoing message

# 4 Two -> Two !! : Terminate

# 5 One -> One : Call to Self
[<-- One : Use Case Return Message

# 7 @enduml

# 10 B.11 Dividers
In some cases, it is helpful to provide divisions of separate activities of the use case. This can be to define pre-requisite activity such as configuration or subscriptions to an event. It can also be used to depict stages of a lifecycle.

# 13 @startuml

# 14 Autonumber

# 15 Box “Personnel” #lightblue

# 16 Actor FT as “Field Technician”

# 17 Actor RP as “Radio Planner”

# 18 Actor SD as “Service Designer”

# 19 End box

# 21 Box “Orchestration and Management Platform” #gold
participant SMO as “OAM Functions”

# 25 Box “O-Cloud Platform” #lightseagreen
participant OCM as “IMS”

# 27 End box

# 29 Box “O-RAN” #NavajoWhite

# 30 Participant OCU as “O-CU”

# 33 Box “3GPP RAN” #Tan

# 34 Participant DU

# 35 Endbox

# 37 == Service Design ==

# 38 SD -> SMO : Onboard Service Descriptor

# 39 SMO -> OCM : Onboard VNF Descriptor
/ O-RAN.WG1.OAM-

# 4 == VNF Instantiate ==

# 5 SMO -> OCM : Instantiate

# 6 OCM -> OCU ** : Create VNF

# 7 OCM --> SMO : VNF Created

# 8 SMO -> OCU : Configure

# 9 == PNF Discovery ==

# 10 FT -> DU **: Poweron

# 11 DU -> SMO : PNF Register

# 12 SMO -> SMO : PNF On Network

# 13 SMO -> DU : Configure

# 14 == Operate ==

# 15 DU <-> OCU : Traffic

# 16 @enduml

# 18 B.12 Grouping and References
Grouping can be used for many different aspects. In UML there are many types of groups. PlantUML support the basic three. Any of the group types can be nested. “Alt” for conditional processing which can show different path processing rather than just a sunny day scenario. It can also be used to show any logical, as the condition is stated in the swim lane, processing. Sometimes the message and the grouping boundary are close and need some separation. Use the “|||” to create that space. The “loop” group is used to show iterations or conditional loops. The loop condition is stated on the lines and contain the statements within the loop. The last kind of group is the fragment. This is a logic group of a sequence of events that go together. The tag line at the top describes the group. / O-RAN.WG1.OAM- Although references look like groups they cannot be nested. Use the single line version for references to use cases in the current document. The Multi-Line version should be used for reference to use cases in an external document.

# 3 @startuml

# 4 Box “Orchestration and Management Platform” #gold
participant SMO as “Orchestration”

# 8 Box “O-RAN” #NavajoWhite

# 9 Participant ODU as “O-DU”

# 10 Participant ORU as “O-RU”

# 13 Group Configure O-RU associated with O-DU

# 14 Alt if flat management model then
Loop for each O-RU managed by the current O-DU

# 16 SMO -> ORU : Config (Full_Config)

# 18 Hnote over ORU

# 19 Ready

# 20 Endhnote

# 21 End

# 22 |||

# 23 Else else if hierarchical model then

# 24 SMO -> ODU : Config_RU (Global_Config)
Loop for each O-RU managed by this O-DU instance

# 27 ODU -> ORU : Config (Full_Config)

# 29 Edit-Config <color red>(External Document Reference)</color>

# 30 WG4 M-Plane Specification [12]

# 31 End ref

# 32 Hnote over ORU

# 33 Ready
endhnote end

# 36 |||

# 37 Else else must be hybrid model then

# 38 Rnote over SMO, ORU

# 39 Order of Global and Local Configuration can vary

# 40 Endrnote
Loop for each O-RU managed by the current O-DU

# 42 SMO -> ORU : Config (Global_Config)
end Loop for each O-RU managed by this O-DU instance

# 45 ODU -> ORU : Config (Local_Config)
end

# 47 Alt If both Local_Config and Local_Config Received then

# 49 Edit-Config

# 50 WG4 M-Plane Specification [12]

# 51 End ref

# 52 Hnote over ORU

# 53 Ready
endhnote

# 55 |||

# 56 End

# 57 End
end

# 59 @enduml
/ O-RAN.WG1.OAM- / O-RAN.WG1.OAM-


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG1.Study-on-O-RAN-Slicing-v02.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG1.Study-on-O-RAN-Slicing-v02.00"
---

# 8 Release x.y.z
where: x the first digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc. (the initial approved document will have x=01). y the second digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been incorporated in the document. z the third digit included only in working versions of the document indicating incremental changes during the editing process. This document provides common terminology for slicing, an overview of slicing activities in different SDOs (3GPP, ETSI, ONAP, GSMA, etc.) and provides the high level view of O-RAN slicing framework and architecture along with different deployment options.

## 1.2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this text, constitute provisions of the present document.
- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition number, version number, etc.) or
non-specific.
- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including
a GSM document), a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document in Release 16. [1] 3GPP TR 21.905: “Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications” [2] 3GPP TS 23.501: “System Architecture for the 5G System”, Release 16, December 2019 [3] 3GPP TR 28.801: “Study on management and orchestration of network slicing for next generation network”, Release 15, January 2018. [4] 3GPP TS 28.530: “Aspects; Management and orchestration; Concepts, use cases and requirements”, Release 16, January 2020. [5] 3GPP TS 28.541: “Management and orchestration; 5G Network Resource Model (NRM); Stage 2 and stage 3”, Release 16, January 2020. [6] 3GPP TS 38.300: “NR and NG-RAN Overall Description”, Release 16, January 2020. [7] ETSI GR NFV-EVE 012: “Report on Network Slicing Support with ETSI NFV Architecture Framework”, Release 3, December 2017. [8] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 008: “Ve-Vnfm reference point - Interface and Information Model Specification”, Release 2, February 2018. [9] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013: “Os-Ma-Nfvo reference point - Interface and Information Model Specification”, Release 2, February 2018. [10] GSMA: “An Introduction to 5G Network Slicing”, 2017. [11] GSMA: “From Vertical Industry Requirements to Network Slice Characteristics”, August 2018. [12] GSMA: “Network Slicing, Use Case Requirements”, April 2018. [13] GSMA: ”Generic Network Slice Template”, Release 2, October 2019 [14] ETSI GS ZSM 003: “Zero-touch Network and Service Management (ZSM); End to end management and orchestration of network slicing”.

## 1.3 Definitions and Abbreviations

### 1.3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP

# 17 TR 21.905 [1].
A1: Interface between non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC to enable policy-driven guidance of Near-RT RIC applications/functions, and support AI/ML workflow. E2: Interface connecting the Near-RT RIC and one or more O-CU-CPs, one or more O-CU-UPs, and one or more O-

# 21 DUs.

# 22 FCAPS: Fault, Configuration, Accounting, Performance, Security.
Intents: A declarative policy to steer or guide the behaviour of RAN functions, allowing the RAN function to calculate the optimal result to achieve stated objective. near-RT RIC: O-RAN near-real-time RAN Intelligent Controller: a logical function that enables near-real-time control and optimization of RAN elements and resources via fine-grained data collection and actions over E2 interface. non-RT RIC: O-RAN non-real-time RAN Intelligent Controller: a logical function that enables non-real-time control and optimization of RAN elements and resources, AI/ML workflow including model training and updates, and policy- based guidance of applications/features in near-RT RIC.

# 30 NMS: A Network Management System.

# 31 O-CU: O-RAN Central Unit
O-CU-CP: O-RAN Central Unit – Control Plane: a logical node hosting the RRC and the control plane part of the PDCP protocol. O-CU-UP: O-RAN Central Unit – User Plane: a logical node hosting the user plane part of the PDCP protocol and the

# 35 SDAP protocol.
O-DU: O-RAN Distributed Unit: a logical node hosting RLC/MAC/High-PHY layers based on a lower layer functional split. O-RU: O-RAN Radio Unit: a logical node hosting Low-PHY layer and RF processing based on a lower layer functional split. This is similar to 3GPP’s “TRP” or “RRH” but more specific in including the Low-PHY layer (FFT/iFFT, PRACH extraction). O1: Interface between management entities (NMS/EMS/MANO) and O-RAN managed elements, for operation and management, by which FCAPS management, Software management, File management shall be achieved. RAN: Generally referred as Radio Access Network. In terms of this document, any component below near-RT RIC per

# 7 O-RAN architecture, including O-CU/O-DU/O-RU.

### 1.3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in

# 12 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
eNB eNodeB (applies to LTE) gNB gNodeB (applies to NR)

# 15 KPI Key Performance Indicator

# 16 KQI Key Quality Indicator

# 17 Near-RT RIC Near-RT RIC

# 18 Non-RT RIC Non-Real-Time RIC

# 19 NS Network Service

# 20 O-CU O-RAN Central Unit

# 21 O-DU O-RAN Distributed Unit

# 22 O-RU O-RAN Radio Unit

# 23 PNF Physical Network Function

# 24 PRB Physical Resource Block

# 25 RIC O-RAN RAN Intelligent Controller

# 26 RRM Radio Resource Management
SDO Standards Developing Organizations (For ex: 3GPP, ETSI, ONAP, O-RAN)

# 28 SMO Service and Management Orchestration

# 29 VNF Virtual Network Function

# 30 NSD NFV Network Service Descriptors

# 31 NST Network Slice Templates
Chapter 2 Objective The current document aims to define the common terminology for slicing, captures slicing activities in different SDOs (3GPP, ETSI, ONAP, GSMA, etc.) and provides the high level view of O-RAN slicing framework and architecture, with the purpose of helping identify requirements for O-RAN defined interfaces and functions, eventually leading to formal drafting of interface specifications. Chapter 3 Common Terminology In this chapter, it is aimed to list slice specific definitions to agree on a common terminology. Network slice instance: a set of network functions and the resources for these network functions which are arranged and configured, forming a complete logical network to meet certain network characteristics. [3] Network slice subnet instance: a set of network functions and the resources for these network functions which are arranged and configured to form a logical network. [3] Network slice subnet template: description of the structure (and contained components) and configuration of the network slice subnet. [3] Network slice template: description of the structure (and contained components) and configuration of a network slice. [3] Physical resource isolation: regime of resource management when a physical resource used by one network slice instance cannot be shared with another network slice instance. [3] Chapter 4 Slicing in SDOs

## 4.1 Slicing in 3GPP

# 3 Architecture Including Network Slicing
Network slicing concept is considered as one of the key feature of 5G networks. Service-based 5G architecture including network slicing is defined in 3GPP TS 23.501 [2]. Figure 4.1-1 represents the non-roaming reference architecture and interfaces utilised in control plane. N n U N s s E S f

# S F
N n N

# N E
e f a u s A F f

# U S F
N N n r f N a m (R )A R f A N F

# M F

# P C
f s m

# N 3
F f

# S M F
N u N d m

# U D M

# U P F

# N 9

# S C P
A N F N a f

# D N

# 9 Figure 4.1-1: Reference architecture

# 11 Network Slice Identification and Service Types
A network slice is always defined with RAN part and CN part in a PLMN (see Clause 5.15.1 in [2]). The network slicing support is based on the principle that flows of the different slices handled by different PDU sessions. Granularity of slice awareness is in PDU session level (see Clause 16.3.1 in [6]). S-NSSAI is a unique identifier for each network slice. NSSAI (Network Slice Selection Assistance Information) includes one or a list of s-NSSAIs which is a combination of mandatary SST (Slice/Service Type) and an optional SD (Slice Differentiator). The operator may choose to serve same Slice/Service Type but using different s-NSSAIs in case of serving same features to different group of users. To support roaming use cases more efficiently, some SST values are standardised for the most common service types as shown in the Table 4.1-2 defined as in 3GPP TS 23.501 [2]. Slice/Service type SST value Characteristics eMBB 1 Slice suitable for the handling of 5G enhanced Mobile Broadband. URLLC 2 Slice suitable for the handling of ultra- reliable low latency communications. MIoT 3 Slice suitable for the handling of massive IoT. V2X 4 Slice suitable for the handling of V2X services.

# 21 Table 4.1-2: Standardized SST values

# 13 Selection of a Network Slice
AMF selection procedure is made based on NSSAI or Temp ID. NSSAI is used when UE does not have Temp ID. Otherwise, RAN uses the NSSAI reported by UE during initial access procedure to select appropriate AMF. If both of them is not available, RAN routes UE to a default AMF. After RRC connection and AMF Selection are completed successfully, selected AMF sends Initial Context Setup Request message to RAN to complete UE context. This message includes allowed NSSAI, s-NSSAI for each PDU session. When required resources and policies for the selected slice(s) are ready, RAN side sends an Initial Context Setup Response message to AMF 3GPP TS 38.300 [6].

# 21 Management and Orchestration of Network Slicing
Network slice is a logical network that provides specific network capabilities and network characteristics. There are some aspects that a network slice includes. A deployed network slice forms a Network Slice Instance (NSI). An NSI has all the physical and logical resources and the functionalities to serve a business use case. The NSI contains Core Part and Access Part. To create an NSI, configurations and policies are required for each instance. The NSI lifecycle includes commissioning, operation and decommissioning phases as shown in Fig 4.1-2.

# 30 Figure 4.1-2: NSI lifecycle
In the preparation phase NSI does not exist and necessary preparations are handled, such as network slice design, capacity planning and on-boarding. Commissioning phase includes the creation of the NSI where all needed resources are allocated and configured per slice requirements. Operation phase is the state that NSI is operating and supporting services to the specified types. In the activation step, any action required to make NSI active is included. Supervision, reporting and modification steps are involved in operation phase. To illustrate, KPI reporting, reconfiguration of NSI or scaling are used in these phases. Decommissioning phase involves termination of the NSI and releasing of the resources assigned to it (see

# 3 Network Resource Model and RRM Slice Policies
3GPP TS 28.541 [5] has introduced the Information Model in the Network Resource Model (NRM) to fulfill management and orchestration of 5G networks. Regarding the network slicing feature modeling at the NRCellCU level, the model basically lists the s-NSSAI(s) supported in the cell and RRM policy to share resources among listed slices. RRMPolicyType attribute is used to describe RRM policy to be applied.

## 4.2 Slicing in ONAP
ONAP 5G slicing activity is ongoing in Frankfurt R6 release. ONAP R5 includes the feature of Network Slicing modeling as a prerequisite for Slicing orchestration that is work in progress in R6. The Network Slice model leverages the shared service/resource approach that is essential for modeling the network slice where VNF’s/PNF’s may be shared by several slices. The shared service approach is similar to ETSI NFV nested services approach, so its TOSCA implementation may be easily translated into Network Service descriptors defined by the ETSI NFV-SOL001 specification for TOSCA based

# 15 NFV descriptors.
The graphical representation of the example of modelling the eMBB Network Slice having 3 slice segments (RAN, transport and core) is shown below in Figure 4.2-1.

# 20 Figure 4.2-1: Example model of eMBB Network Slice
Nested Network Service is the approach for shared resources (VNF/NS)  Nested network service TOSCA implementation in ETSI NFV-SOL001

# 25  PNFD may be part of Nested Service
Sharing of Network Slice resources (PNF’s and VNF’s) for ONAP release 6 is proposed using Nested services approach (based on work done for Release 5) including wrapping PNFs/VNF’s within Network Services and defining operations and properties on Service level. The Network slicing orchestration in ONAP R6 will include assigning workflows to the operations. Following this approach, the topology model for O-RAN segment would be as shown below in Figure 4.2-2:

# 8 Figure 4.2-2: High level O-RAN topology model

## 4.3 Slicing Orchestration in 3GPP SA5 and ETSI NFV MANO
According to ETSI NFV Network Slicing Report [7], network slicing has been defined by different SDOs, there is no common definition for network slicing. Therefore, understanding of network slicing is different from each other. Nonetheless, the report does not introduce use cases or features but analyses network slicing in external SDOs. In this report, how these external use cases should be mapped to NFV and the ETSI NFV architecture is explained. As stated in 3GPP TR 28.801 [3], a network slice may contain one or more network slice subnets and each of them includes one or more network functions. VNFs and PNFs are managed as these network functions in the ETSI NFV architecture. Related to network slicing management, there are three different management functions identified in 3GPP

# 18 TR 28.801 [3]:
 Communication Service Management Function (CSMF): translates the communication service related requirement to network slice related requirements.  Network Slice Management Function (NSMF): responsible for management and orchestration of NSI. Provides communication with the Network Slice Subnet Management Function (NSSMF) and Communication Service

# 23 Management Function.
 Network Slice Subnet Management Function (NSSMF): responsible for management and orchestration of NSSI. As shown in the Figure 4.3-1, Os-Ma-nfvo reference point is used for interaction between 3GPP slice management functions and NFVO. Similarly, Ve-Vnfm-em reference point is used for exchanges between NFMF and VNF Manager. Further analysis is required on these reference points to apply deployment scenarios including 3GPP network slicing related management functions and NFV-MANO. Further details are available in ETSI GS NFV-IFA

# 29 008 [8] and ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [9].
3GPP Slice Related Management Functions CSMF NFVO Os-Ma-nfvo NSMF NSSMF Ve-Vnfm-em NFMF VNFM PNF VNF VIM Figure 4.3-1: Network slice management in an NFV framework Figure 4.3-2 shows an example of a 5G network realized by an end-to-end network slice, consisting of network slice subnet #1 for 5G core networks and network slice subnet #2 for 5G radio networks (see Clause 4.1.3 in TS 28.530 [4]).

# 8 Figure 4.3-2: 5G network with network slicing
The following diagram (Figure 4.3-3) shows the interaction between 3GPP and ETSI NFV to create a network slice subnet instance for RAN network functions.

# N S M F

# 7 . n o tific a a n e tw
tio n s o

# N F M F
o rk s lic e s u b n e t in s ta n c e fo

# 4 . n o tific a tio n o
f s u c c e s s fu l n e tw o rk s lic e s u r R A N n f in s ta n b n e t c r

# N S S M
e tw o rk fu n tia tio n o f V e a tio n F c tio n s

# N F s (O -C U a n d
n o tific a tio n o

# N S , c o n

# O -D U )
f s u c c e s ta in in s fu l N g S

# N F V O

# V N F s (O -C U a n d O -D U ) a n d P
. in s ta n t ia te V N F s (O -C U . V N F s h a v e b e e n in s ta n in s ta n tia tio n

# V N F M

# N F (O -R U )
a n d O -D U tia te d ) Figure 4.3-3: High level view of network slice subnet instance creation 1. NSMF sends request to allocate a network slice subnet instance for RAN network functions, e.g. O-CU, O-DU, and O-RU. 2. NSSMF decides to instantiate a Network Service (NS) instance for a new network slice subnet instance. 3. NFVO sends request to instantiate the VNFs for O-CU, O-DU. 4. VNFM instantiates VNFs and notifies NFMF that VNFs have been instantiated. 5. VNFM responds to NFVO informing that VNFs have ben instantiated. 6. NFVO notify NSSMF that NS has been instantiated. 7. NSSMF responds to NSMF with status equals to successful for the operation of network slice subnet instance creation.

## 4.4 Slicing in ETSI ZSM
The management services (MnSs) for end-to-end network slicing are provided by a set of management domains (MDs). Including that for network slicing defined by 3GPP SA5 and that for NFV defined by ETSI NFV, provides various MnSs as shown in Figure 4.4-1 [14]. Figure 4.4-1: Example of MDs to support network slicing using NFV

# 4 In this operator deployment example:
 E2E Service MD provides MnSs for E2E network slices/network slice subnets, e.g. Service Orchestration service (Serv-Orch), which orchestrates the individual network slice subnets (NSSs) provided by Radio Access Network (RAN), Transport Network (TN) and Core Network (CN), and stitches them into a E2E network slice subnet being exposed as a network slice. The MnSs in this MD may also manage NSSs of Data Network (aka. SGi Network) using MD for NFV. It is expected that parts of specifications developed by 3GPP SA5 are re-used for the MnSs in this MD. This MD exposes e.g. management capabilities of E2E network slices (provisioning, performance assurance, fault supervision, etc.).  MD for NSS in TN provides MnSs for NSSs of TN, e.g. Dom-Orch service. This MD may consume TN resources outside of ZSM supported by e.g. Configuration Management service(s) (Conf-Mgmt). It is expected that parts of specifications developed by e.g. BBF, MEF, IETF and/or ETSI NFV are re-used for the MnSs in this MD. This MD exposes e.g. management capabilities of NSS of TN (provisioning, performance assurance, fault supervision, etc.).  MD for NSS in RAN provides MnSs for NSSs of RAN, e.g. Dom-Orch service. This MD may consume application level RAN resources (i.e. application part of RAN Network Functions) outside of ZSM supported by e.g. Conf- Mgmt, and it may also consume MnSs for Network Services which include virtualized resources from MD for NFV. It is expected that parts of specifications developed by 3GPP SA5 are re-used for the MnSs in this MD. This MD exposes e.g. management capabilities of NSS of RAN (provisioning, performance assurance, fault supervision, etc.).  MD for NSS in CN provides MnSs for NSSs of CN, e.g. Dom-Orch service. This MD may consume application level CN resources outside of ZSM (i.e. application part of CN Network Functions) supported by e.g. Conf-Mgmt, and it may also consume MnSs for Network Services which include virtualized resources from MD for NFV. It is expected that parts of specifications developed by 3GPP SA5 are re-used for the MnSs in this MD. This MD exposes e.g. management capabilities of NSS of CN (provisioning, performance assurance, fault supervision, etc.).  MD for NFV provides MnSs for NFV Network Service(s) (at resource level), e.g. Dom-Orch service (NFV Orchestrator). This MD may also have Conf-Mgmt (VNF Manager) and MnSs for managing compute/network/storage resources (Virtualized Infrastructure Manager). It is expected that parts of specifications developed by ETSI NFV are re-used for the MnSs in this MD. This MD exposes e.g. management capabilities related to NFV Network Services (Create/Read/Update/Delete of the Network Services, on-boarding of catalogues for those, etc.). Using the operator deployment scenario in Figure 4.4-1, a service over an E2E network slice instance comprising of RAN access + virtualized application can be deployed. Figure 4.4-2 describes the particular instance of service consumption across the domains. m(w R a d io a n a g e m ith v ir tu (N S

# S M F )

# E S e
m r a v n Va i c ir t u g e m(N e M a lz a t io n e n t d o m

# F V O )
a a in n a g e m C o e n t D r e m a n a g e m e d o m a in (w ith V N F s ) (N S S M F ) n t o m a i T n r a n s p o rt m d o m a n a a in g e m e n t Figure 4.4-2: Example management services’ consumption to show E2E slice deployment.

# 8 The steps of deployment are:
1) The E2E service breaks up the E2E network slicing deployment requests into a) Part of the E2E network slice (for fixed users and Transport) + 3GPP Core Part of the E2E network slice (for Mobile users) + 3GPP RAN part of the E2E network slice + application service (Virtualized) 2) A part of the E2E network slice is handed over to the TN management domain using the appropriate management services exposed by the transport management domain. 3) The 3GPP core part (CP: AMF/SMF, UPF, N1,N6) goes to the core management system a) The core management domain requests the connectivity (N1, N6) to the transport management domain b) The Core management domain hands over the VNFs (AMF/SMF, UPF…) to the virtualization management domain 4) The access part goes to radio access service management domain a) The radio access management domain uses the management services of the virtualization management domain to deploy the virtualized RAN part 5) The virtualized application AS is handed over to be deployed by the virtualization management system.

## 4.5 Slicing in GSMA
GSMA published a document [10] which aims to provide an introduction to network slicing functionality. It shows how network slicing can be used by business customers. Business customers are referred as users of the 5G services which could be enterprises, specialized industries or individuals. Network slicing is analyzed from the business customers’ point of view in addition to set of use cases. It is highlighted that different business customers has various requirements like ultra-reliable services, ultra-high- bandwidth communication or extremely low latency. Running multiple logical networks on a common physical infrastructure is enabled by network slicing. Network slice contained 5G networks allow business customers to have connectivity having different business requirements which are governed by SLAs. Network slicing provides ability to customize capabilities and functionality of the mobile network offered to business customers. Customized services are classified as Network Connection Service and Network Resource Service. The first one indicates the connectivity functionalities of the customer e.g. near real-time latency, guaranteed SLA, seamless mobility and energy efficiency. The second one describes the case that customers are granted access to the operator network resources to run their proprietary applications. In addition to network resource services, the network is able to provide additional services i.e. big data analytics, cloud computing, edge computing and positioning. GSMA lists some use cases for the business customers to underline potential of network slicing. Industry sectors including automotive, logistic, healthcare, government are indicated as potential application of the network slicing. As the successor of the previous document, GSMA conducted a study on the service requirements expressed by various business customers. In addition to detailed analysis of the service requirements, recommendations for the industry has been provided. Finally, a generic slice template has been introduced and all the attributes a network slice could have, has been discussed [12]. Generic Slice Template (GST) lists set of attributes with names and units that characterise a network slice (e.g. throughput, supported functionalities). GST categorises the attributes into character attributes and scalability attributes. Former defines generic slice attributes independent from the NSC and NSP (e.g. latency, throughput), while latter provides information about scalability of the slice e.g. number of terminals, area of the service. Another concept defined to represent network slices with a common language is Network Slice Type (NEST). The NEST is a GST filled with proper values based on a specific business use case. Moreover, NEST is the input for the network slice preparation phase which leads to service profile definition in 3GPP. GSMA Network Slicing Taskforce (GSMA-NEST) has two main objectives which are defining the GST [13] and identifying set of slices whose characteristics are accepted by the industry. GSMA-NEST aims to deliver NESTs with industry approved slice characteristics which could be used by the operators [11]. Chapter 5 O-RAN Slicing Framework

## 5.1 O-RAN Slicing Architecture

### 5.1.1 Non-RT RIC
The fundamental role of the Non-RT RIC in O-RAN architecture is to apply AI/ML based algorithms to provide innovative RAN use cases. Hence, Non-RT RIC is a key component to allow advanced RAN slicing technology to be applied in O-RAN framework. For this purpose, Non-RT RIC should be aware of RAN slices and related slice properties/configurations as well as slice performance metrics to actively assist slice assurance through optimization methods, including AI/ML models. To generate AI/ML models to be deployed in the Near-RT RIC, Non-RT RIC retrieves slice specific PMs and configuration parameters of the slices and optionally external enrichment information from external servers. Complex problems for Near-RT RIC e.g. applying RRM policies can be tackled by learning capabilities of AI/ML. Training models enable non-real-time optimization of the slice specific parameters over O1 interface. Moreover, these performance, configuration and other data are used to assist Near-RT RIC to provide dynamic slice optimization. Appling dynamic slice optimization in the Near-RT RIC is used to prevent SLA violations between the slices.

### 5.1.2 Near-RT RIC
Near-RT RIC enables xApps to control RAN elements and their resources through the E2 interface in near real-time (sub second). Similar to Non-RT RIC, Near-RT RIC xApps should be aware of RAN slices and can utilize slice aware algorithms for slice SLA assurance purposes. Once the slices are up and running, slice specific PMs from E2 nodes will be gathered and sent to Near-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC will use these PMs and the slice configuration data to apply dynamic slice optimization to assure slice SLAs, through E2 interface (to be discussed). These dynamic slice optimization algorithms can be built into the Near-RT RIC, can be guided from Non-RT RIC through A1 policies, or can be sent down as AI/ML models from Non-RT RIC.

### 5.1.3 O-RAN Central Unit (O-CU)
In order to apply RAN slicing in O-RAN framework, both O-CU and O-DU needs to support slicing features as defined by 3GPP. Furthermore slicing can be enhanced with the assistance of O-RAN specific Near-RT RIC dynamic slice optimization through E2 interface. O-CU is the O-RAN entity which runs the upper layer protocols of the RAN stack, such as Radio Resource Management. Since RRM is responsible for managing resources, and in case of slicing – the allocation of resources between slices, O- CU needs to execute slice specific resource allocation strategies and drive O-DU(s) similarly. O-CU will interact with Near-RT RIC to provide slice specific PMs as well as getting dynamic guidance through E2 interface.

### 5.1.4 O-RAN Distributed Unit (O-DU)
O-DU is the O-RAN entity which runs the lower layer protocols of the RAN stack, including MAC layer which is the layer that schedules Physical Resource Blocks to UEs. As part of slicing, MAC layer needs to allocate PRBs according to the RRM strategies provided by the Operator and slice management entities. O-DU will receive the slice configuration parameters from O1 interface, and dynamic slice optimization guidance from RIC through E2 interface and will provide slice specific PMs through O1 interface to SMO and E2 interface to Near-RT RIC.

### 5.1.5 A1 Impact
A1 interface will be used to support policy based guidance for slicing use cases, such as SLA assurance. In addition to policy guidance towards Near-RT RIC, Non-RT RIC should be able to receive feedback related to deployed policies over A1 interface. In case of external data enrichment, Non-RT RIC should be able to transfer slice specific enrichment data to Near-RT RIC over A1 interface as well.

### 5.1.6 E2 Impact
E2 interface will be used to drive E2 nodes’ slice configuration and behaviour, such as slice based radio resource allocations, scheduling policies, and configuration policies that may affect performance characteristics of the corresponding network slice. Near-RT RIC should be able to configure and receive slice specific performance data from the E2 nodes over the E2 interface for near real-time optimization (as compared to PMs collected over the O1 interface, which is a slower loop). Slice specific PMs can include PRB utilization, average delay and DRB related measurements that are already defined in 3GPP. However, E2SM(s) can be extended to support non-3GPP slice specific PM collection so that policy control algorithms running on the Near-RT RIC are improved to meet the slice SLA requirements.

### 5.1.7 O1 Impact
The primary role of O1 interface is to enable slice specific configuration of O-RAN nodes based on the service requirements. 3GPP 28.541 [5] has defined the Information Models to list attributes of the slice profiles with the slice specific requirements, including RRM policy attributes to provide ratio of radio resources to split among the supported slices. In addition to slice specific configuration capabilities, O1 interface is used to gather slice specific performance metrics and fault information from O-RAN Nodes. As extensions to O-RAN specific slicing configuration and performance measurement attributes are defined, these information will be sent over O1 interface as well.

### 5.1.8 O2 Impact
O2 is the interface used for life cycle management of virtual O-RAN network functions. In case of network slicing, after the preparation phase, SMO might instantiate necessary O-RAN network functions (such as Near-RT RIC, O-CU-CP, O- CU-UP, O-DU) through instantiation procedures as part of the RAN NSSI creation and provisioning, NSSI modification and NSSI deletion. It is expected that Non-RT RIC is instantiated as part of SMO and does not require any lifecycle management activities. Chapter 6 Deployment Options This section provides possible deployment options with respect to network slice management topology and their possible effects on O-RAN slicing architecture. Based on 3GPP specifications Network Slice Management Function (NSMF) and Network Slice Subnet Management Function (NSSMF) are responsible for end-to-end slice management and slice subnet management respectively. Within the scope of O-RAN, RAN slice subnet management function is the primary focus including but not limited to its interactions with the Service Management and Orchestration Framework. Possible architectural impacts of different deployment options are planned to be investigated and captured in O-RAN Slicing

# 9 Architecture Specification document.
In the following sub sections, four possible deployment options are presented. Please note that while ETSI based NFVO/VNFM interface types are depicted as examples, depending on SMO type these interfaces and NFVO/VNFM components can be different. As other SMOs (such as ONAP) make progress with RAN slicing, the relevant interfaces can be captured in the next iterations of this document.

# 15 Option 1
In this option, both NSMF and NSSMF are deployed within the SMO. Figure 3: NSMF and NSSMF are deployed within the SMO

# 20 Option 2
In this case, both NSMF and NSSMF are deployed outside the SMO.

# 4 Option 3
In this option, NSMF is placed within SMO. However, NSSMF is deployed outside the SMO.

# 8 Figure 5: External NSSMF deployment

# 10 Option 4
In this case, NSMF is in the outside of SMO while NSSMF is deployed within SMO.


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG1.TR.Decoupled-SMO-Architecture-R004-v03.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG1.TR.Decoupled-SMO-Architecture-R004-v03.00"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1].

For the purposes of the present document, the following terms apply:

CNF: Function in the network designed using cloud-native principles and orchestrated using cloud-native technologies.

Non-RT RIC: O-RAN Non-Real-Time RAN Intelligent Controller. Please refer to [i.3] for more information.

Non-RT RIC Framework: Please refer to [i.3] for more information.

SMO: A Service Management and Orchestration system as described in [i.2] Section 4.3.1

SMO Service (SMOS): Standardized cohesive set of management, orchestration and automation capabilities offered by an SMO Function.

- SMO Functions (SMOFs): Internal SMO entities which provide one or more SMO Services.  Note: An SMO Function exposes standardized interfaces which enable interoperability between SMO Functions.
VNF: see definition in ETSI GR NFV 003.

## 3.2 Symbols

For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:

- **NRB**: Transmission bandwidth configuration, expressed in units of resource blocks (for E-UTRA)  <example symbol definition>

## 3.3 Abbreviations

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1].

CNF 	Cloud-native Network Function

DME	Data Management and Exposure

DMS 	Deployment Management Service

IMS 	Infrastructure Management Service

IV 	Inventory management

PNF	Physical Network Function

SA	Service Assurance

SME	Service Management and Exposure

- **SMO**: Service Management and Orchestration
- **SMOF**: SMO Function
- **SMOS**: SMO Service
- **SO**: Service Orchestration
- **SOSA**: Service Orchestration and Assurance
TE 	Topology Exposure

VNF 	Virtualised Network Function

# SMO Context based on current O-RAN specifications

## Existing services in O-RAN specifications

According to definition, a SMOS is a set of capabilities offered by an SMOF. This clause summarizes SMO-related capabilities and services identified and/or defined in July 2022 O-RAN specifications.

The architecture of the SMO is captured in different O-RAN specifications, each focusing on different areas of SMO. The non-RT RIC architecture described in [i.3] specifies the reference architecture of the Non-RT RIC as part of the SMO framework, as shown in the figure 6-1 of [i.3] and reiterated below for visibility:

Based on the figure 4.1-1 above, the SMO contains a series of functionalities. Several R1 services are identified, and are being described in [i.8] chapter 3, for exposure via R1 interface:

- Service management and exposure services (SME)
- Data management and exposure services (DME)
- A1-related Services
- O1-related Services
- O2-related Services
- AI/ML Workflow Services.
In addition, the O2 services are described in [i.9], and there are two main services identified over O2 interface, O2DMS and O2IMS, which have the corresponding functionality coordinated via NFO and FOCOM respectively. The O1 services are identified in [i.6] and are represented as SMOSs in section 5 of this document.

The SMO capabilities have been specified in O-RAN WG specifications in various manners (either as interface services, or subsets of functions). Taking into consideration the main SMO capabilities in the July 2022 O-RAN specifications, there are three categories of SMO capabilities that can be derived and further be used as a base for the SMOS definitions:

- Non-RT RIC related SMOSs
- O-Cloud management and orchestration related SMOSs
- RAN NF OAM related SMOSs.
The three SMOS categories are depicted in figure 4.1-2 below.

Figure 4.1-3 provides an SBA representation of the identified SMO capabilities (e.g., R1 Services and the R1 service interfaces, O2dms and O2ims services, RAN NF OAM services) based on July 2022 O-RAN specifications.

For consistency with the SBA approach of this document and the definition of a SMOS, these SMO capabilities are represented as candidates to be used as a basis for identifying SMOSs. Identification of SMOFs which produce the SMOSs are addressed in section 6 of this document.

- The following sections of the present document will address:
- The naming of the interfaces can be done as part of the normative stage 2 work based on the analysis and recommendations from section 5,6 and 7.
- Though the figure does not explicitly illustrate, an objective for this study, is to determine a common set of SMOSs’ across the SMOFs. When this is the case, these are indicated throughout the next sections, by explicit statements about use of several common SMOSs by the different SMOS producers.

## Other services and external terminations

Requirements for “External Terminations” described in Figure 4.1-1 are not yet addressed in the July 2022 O-RAN specifications.

An example of external exposure of SMO Services using SME and DME principles, can be represented in an SBA approach as depicted in figure 4.2-1.

In Figure 4.1-1, the “Other SMO framework functions” and the “Other Non-RT RIC framework functions” have been used as placeholder for aspects not yet defined in the O-RAN specifications from their services perspective.

Examples of essential functionality in SMO to be addressed in this study, include:

- Service Orchestration, including aspects of coordinating the orchestration of a chain of RAN NFs, their connectivity, and the assurance of such RAN NF chaining.
- Topology and Inventory management
- Network Slice Subnet management (see [i.11]for use cases and functional description).

# SMO Services: Scenarios and Use Cases

## RAN NF OAM related SMOSs

The SMO manages O-RAN Network Functions (NFs) using the O-RAN OAM Architecture [WG10.OAM]. As listed in the O-RAN OAM architecture section 2.2.1.1 [WG10.OAM], these O-RAN Network functions (NFs) include the following radio side entities: Near-RT RIC, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU, and O-RU Managed Functions. As shown in “Figure 4.1-1: High Level Architecture of O-RAN” of the O-RAN Architecture Specification [WG1.ARCH], the O-RAN Network Functions communicate with the SMO via O1, A1 and Open Fronthaul M-plane interfaces. In the current O-RAN architecture, the NF-related Management Services (MnS) over the O1 interface and Open Fronthaul M-Plane interface are consumed by the SMO. As defined in 3GPP, MnS composed of 3 parts: Component A, B and C. In order to meet the demand for the consumption of MnS, e.g., collect data of MnS component B and C for intelligent analysis, and consume MnS component A for operating O-RAN NFs, we envision that the SMO needs to have the capability to consume the NF-related MnS and provide related services to different SMO Functions (SMOFs) as a set of RAN NF OAM SMO Services.

Examples of Management Services supported by O-RAN are listed in section 3.3.1.1 of [WG10.OAM] and section 2 of [WG10.O1]. As an example, in order to fulfil the UE service SLA assurance, Non-RT RIC will consume RAN NF OAM SMO Services to collect OAM data for analysis. Non-RT RIC will host policies and applications which can be used to generate actions which are executed through the SMO external interfaces, e.g., A1 and O1 interfaces. In order to fulfil the optimization goal or end user service SLA assurance in use cases such as Context-Based Dynamic HO Management for V2X, Flight Path Based Dynamic UAV Radio Resource Allocation, Radio Resource Allocation for UAV Application Scenario, QoE Optimization, RAN Slice SLA assurance [WG1.UC-DS], it is a pre-requisite that measurement data, RAN PM data, QoE data need to be collected and provided to Non-RT RIC for further analyzing.

Different intelligent use cases require different types of RAN management data, including performance data, alarm data, and NF NRM-related data. The SMO needs to have the capability to collect this data and provide it efficiently to SMOFs. The triggering of data collection and the consumption of data can be accomplished with SMO RAN NF OAM SMO Services. In alignment with [WG10.O1][WG4.M-Plane], the SMO offers the following three RAN NF OAM SMO Services, and details of each are described in sections 5.1.1, 5.1.2, and 5.1.3 respectively:

RAN NF Performance Assurance Management SMO Service (NFPM): Provide RAN NF performance data collection obtained by consuming PM MnS via O1 interface and Open Fronthaul M-Plane interface.

RAN NF Fault Supervision Management SMO Services (NFFM): Provide RAN NF fault data (e.g., Alarm) collection obtained by consuming FM MnS via O1 interface and Open Fronthaul M-Plane interface.

RAN NF Provisioning Management SMO Services (NFCM): Provide RAN NF NRM-related data collection and modification services and obtained by consuming MnS via O1 interface and Open Fronthaul M-Plane interfaces.

The interfaces exposing the RAN NF OAM SMO Services for consumption by other SMOFs provide flexible mechanisms to allow their service consumers to narrow down the target of their requests (e.g., to specific areas, NFs, cells, etc.).

### RAN NF Performance Assurance Management SMO Service (NFPM)

#### Use Case: Performance Management for O-RAN NF instances

##### 5.1.1.1.1 High Level Description

To monitor real-time performance data and enable consumers within SMO to detect issues in advance, it is needed for SMOFs to consume performance measurement jobs of an NF. The NFPM SMOS provides a mechanism for the NFPM SMOS consumers to create and terminate the PM job as well as querying the related PM information.  The collected performance data is reported to the NFPM SMOS consumer in the format of files or data streaming in accordance with the requested method.

### RAN NF Fault Supervision Management SMO Service (NFFM)

#### Use Case: Enable Fault Supervision Services for NF instances

##### 5.1.2.1.1. High Level Description

For the purposes of Fault Supervision, it is needed for SMOFs to get alarm list alarm list, clear or acknowledge one or multiple alarms of an NF. The service for a one-time query is also required.

### RAN NF Provisioning Management SMO Service (NFCM)

#### Use Case:  Enable Configuration Management for O-RAN NF instances

##### 5.1.3.1.1 High Level Description

For the purposes of Configuration Management, it is needed for SMOFs to manage configuration (creation, deletion, modification, or query) of an NF.  The NFCM SMOS provides a mechanism for the NFCM SMOS consumers to request a change to the network over the appropriate interface, such as the O1 and Open Fronthaul M-plane interfaces. NFCM manages changes to the network in terms of conflict and frequency of change. It is also responsible for translating a provisioning request into the proper format for the configuration schema of the targeted NF(s) and then uses the appropriate protocol, such as the O1 and Open Fronthaul M-Plane, to affect the change in the element. The NFCM SMOS also provides a mechanism to receive and facilitate processing of all CM notifications from the NF(s), including notification of configuration changes which were not directly requested by the NFCM SMOS mechanism.

## Non-RT RIC related SMOSs

### rApps Management SMOS

#### Overview

The non-RT RIC provides management services to support rApps. The rApp management service handles management aspects specific to rApps such as:

rApp Configuration Management (CM): enables management of the rApp configuration settings,

rApp Performance Management (PM): offers support for performance reporting on an rApp performance, or of the rApp communication with the non-RT RIC framework (rApp usage of R1 interface),

rApp Fault Management (FM): provides the fault reporting capabilities to rApps, so they can consume it to report faults that are related to the rApp, or to the rApp communication with the non-RT RIC framework (rApp usage of R1 interface),

rApp Logging Information: enables rApps to convey their logging information to the non-RT RIC framework,

rApp lifecycle management services, that expose services that allow to trigger rApp software lifecycle management.

## Topology and Inventory related SMOS

### Topology Exposure and Inventory Management SMOS

For the SMO to perform efficient operation and maintenance of O-RAN and to enable a global view of the O-RAN resources, it is important to maintain an inventory of O-RAN resources. Visualization and optimization of the network rely upon knowing and maintaining the relationship between O-RAN resources (i.e. network view). Topology Exposure (TE) and Inventory Management (IV) services provide an up-to-date information of O-RAN resources and their relationships.

NOTE: O-RAN resources include resources used to realize the O-RAN Radio Network including network functions, subnet slice, cloud resources, radio resources, and transport resources.

O-RAN.WG1.Use-Cases-Detailed-Specification [i.10] specifies use cases related to optimization of radio resources which can benefit from Topology Exposure Service to provide network view of the radio resources. O-RAN.WG1.Slicing-Architecture [i.11] specifies use cases related to RAN network slice that deal with network slice resources which can benefit from Topology Exposure Service to provide network view of the available RAN, cloud and transport resources. Topology Exposure Service can assist the Network Subnet Slice Management Service to identify the available or impacted O-DU, O-CU and O-RU instances. O-RAN.WG6.ORCH-USE-CASES [i.12]specifies use cases related to discovery/allocation/deallocation of various types of cloud resources to O-Cloud instance and xNF LCM. These use cases will benefit from Topology Exposure Service to provide them the network view of cloud resources.

O-RAN WG10 Architecture Specification [i.5] has a service provisioning use case that refers to population of information about VNFs and PNFs in the inventory. There is a functional requirement for SMO (REQ-M&O-FUN4) to support the inventory of newly activated PNFs and VNFs. Inventory Management Service will satisfy this requirement.

## Service Management and Exposure (SME) SMOS

The SME service is introduced in the [i.8] section 3.1. While the SME was initially targeted for management and exposure of rApp services in the [i.8], its services are applicable to any entities within the SMO that fulfil the roles of Service Producer and/or Service Consumer.

In a decomposed service-based SMO architecture, the SME can be leveraged as a generic SMOS, handling service management and exposure for any SMOSs within SMO. The SME SMOS provides a set of common SMO capabilities that are needed for all SMO Services.

Several of the SME services are applicable to any SMOSs:

- SMOS registration,
- SMOS discovery,
- Authentication and authorization to access a SMOS,
- Communication support between SMOS Service Producers and SMOS Service Consumers (SMOS Communication),
- Bootstrap of new SMOSs (optional),
- Heartbeat of SMOSs (optional).

### Use Case: SME reuse for SMO

The use cases described for the SME in [i.13] section 4 can be applicable to any SMOSs beyond rApps, where a SMOF can act in a role of one, or both, the Service Producer and Service Consumer.

## Data Management and Exposure (DME) SMOS

The DME services and their producers, the logical DME functions, are introduced in the Non-RT RIC Architecture specification [i.3], providing capabilities that allow DME Data Consumers to discover data types, consume collected data, and further allow DME Data Producers to register data types and to produce data for collection. The DME services can handle any registered data types and expose them for discovery and consumption to DME Data Consumers. In the [i.8] section 3.2, both the DME Data Producer and DME Data Consumer are restricted to refer only to rApps, because the scope of [i.8] is the R1 interface between rApps and the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework.

In a decomposed service-based SMO architecture, the DME SMOS can be leveraged as an enabler handling any SMOS data types, therefore any SMOF can be a DME Data Producer and/or a DME Data Consumer.

The definition of DME services as exposed via the R1 interface currently specifies how rApps interact with the DME services in the roles of DME Data Producer and DME Data Consumer. Within the SMO wider scope these two roles are now associated with any of the SMOFs which can benefit from using DME SMOS to register, produce, discover and consume data.

### Use Case: DME data types handling for SMO

There are several use cases described for the DME in [i.13] section 5. These use cases are also applicable to any SMOFs in a role of one, or both, of DME Data Producer and DME Data Consumer.

## O-Cloud resources management and orchestration related SMOSs

### Network Function Orchestration SMOS (NFO)

The NFO SMOS is responsible for the orchestration of the O-Cloud resources, used for the deployment of the NF Deployments that constitute the cloudified NFs, either using the ETSI NFV O2DMS profile or the Kubernetes® O2DMS profile. That includes the initial deployment of the software and any subsequent lifecycle management actions necessary on the respective NF Deployments instances, such as healing, updates, scaling, software upgrades, termination, etc. The functionality of the NFO is introduced in [i.9].

O-RAN NFs can also be deployed as PNFs, in which case O-Cloud resources are not used (rather the appliance model applies).

The deployment constructs PNF, CNF and VNF do not impose any specific cardinality with the O-RAN NF. It is expected that one O-RAN NF has a [0..n] cardinality with any of the PNF, CNF or VNF.

#### Use Case: NF Deployments

Several orchestration use cases are described in [i.12].

### Federated O-Cloud Orchestration and Management SMOS (FOCOM)

The Federated O-Cloud Orchestration and Management is introduced in [i.9]. Its capabilities cover management of O-Cloud resources and provide two main categories of services:

- the O-Cloud Infrastructure Resource Management,
- the management of the abstracted resources and DMSes (e.g., the management of the software deployed to provide virtualization technologies such as containers or VMs).
The capabilities of FOCOM SMOS include:

- maintaining the O-Cloud Infrastructure data in the SMO inventory,
- monitoring the infrastructure,
- provisioning the infrastructure,
- infrastructure software management,
- infrastructure lifecycle management.

### Use Case: O-Cloud management

The O-Cloud basic use cases providing several scenarios related to different aspects of the O-Cloud lifecycle management and for O-Cloud software management are defined in [i.12].

## RAN Network Slice Subnet Management SMOS

The RAN Network Slice Subnet management (NSSM) exposes the RAN subnetwork slice provisioning related capabilities as specified in section 6.2 “Management services for network slice subnet provisioning” in TS 28.531 [i.16] with the operations defined in TS 28.532 [i.17]and Network slice subnet NRM related information models defined in clause 6.3 of TS 28.541 [i.18].  The NSSI (Network Subnet Slice Instance defined in TS 28.530 [i.20]) provisioning operations include:

- create an NSSI; activate an NSSI; deactivate an NSSI; modify an NSSI; terminate an NSSI, get NSSI data, allocate NSSI to an NSI, deallocate NSSI from NSI.
A RAN NSSM SMOS producer relies on other SMOSs in order to provide the NSSI provisioning functionality, e.g.:

- SME SMOS, for the registration of the RAN subnet slice management capabilities offered and for discovery of other SMOSs that it needs to consume,
- SO SMOS, that performs the orchestration and management coordination required for the NSSI’s components:
- the component RAN NFs that best match the requirements received from the RAN NSSM SMOS producer,
- coordination with NFO Producer to request LCM actions as needed for the O-RAN NF Deployments, and coordination with FOCOM to request O-Cloud management actions,
- where applicable, to obtain the suitable TNs for the RAN NFs inter and intra-connections, that fulfil the requirements received,
- SA SMOS, that performs the assurance of the overall RAN service represented by the NSSI components, based on the service requirements and characteristics provided.

### Use Case: RAN Network Slice Subnet Management

Use cases for RAN Network Slice Subnet Management are described in [i.19]and in clause 3 of [i.11]

## RAN Analytics SMOS

RAN analytics SMOS consumes data and services produced by the SMO then it processes and analyses them using its internal logic and algorithms to produce RAN analytics output. The RAN analytics output includes RAN traffic predictions or statistics (such as UE mobility predictions) and recommendations related to RAN management.

RAN analytics are useful for both internal SMO consumption as well as external consumers (e.g., 5GC such as NWDAF, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.104 [i.14] and 3GPP TS 23.288 [i.15]).

The 3GPP MDA as specified in 3GPP TS 28.104  uses input data that relates to both RAN traffic and RAN management data and has defined several data types related to RAN analytics. These data types are also useful in O-RAN context and can be extended with additional analytics data types that address O-RAN use cases and requirements such as the ones listed in section 5.2.3.1 of this document.

NOTE: the RAN traffic analytics exposed in a real-time manner via the Y1 interface are not analysed in this document. Whether SMO consumes Y1 or not is not addressed in the present document.

RAN Analytics SMOS registers with DME the data types of the RAN analytics, and/or RAN management analytics that they produce. This allows the analytics data discovery by interested consumers via DME. Such analytics data types can be the existing standardized 3GPP MDA data types specified in 3GPP TS 28.104 [i.14],or they can be new analytics data types defined in O-RAN.

The SMO exposes RAN analytics to SMOS consumers (e.g., internal in SMO, or 5GC NF such as NWDAF, or other SMOS external consumers) via SME, with a service interface based on the MDA interface specified in 3GPP TS 28.104 [i.14]. Asynchronous data delivery to external SMOS consumers via DME is achieved using the DME push data service described in R1 GAP [i.9] section 5.2.6.3 “Push data service”. External SMOS consumers that want to consume the RAN analytics SMOS offered by the SMO, need to be able to:

- Consume the discovery service of the SME to discover the RAN analytics SMOS in the SMO, using the interface exposed by SME for that purpose.
- Consume services produced by DME SMOS to perform one, or more of: data discovery for the RAN Analytics SMOS data types, subscriptions to RAN analytics data types of interest, the Pull data and/or Push data from DME.
- Consume the RAN Analytics SMOS, by performing the needed service invocations requests following the MDA interface specification from 3GPP TS 28.104[i.14].

### Use Case: RAN traffic analytics sharing with 5GC

The use cases are described in section 3.23 “Use case 23: Sharing Non-RT RIC Data with the Core” of the WG1 Use Cases Analysis report [i.7] and in section 3.23 “Use case 23: Sharing Non-RT RIC Data with the Core” of the WG1 Use Cases Detailed Specification [i.10]In order to fulfil the use case, it is important to make RAN analytics SMOS capabilities discoverable by 5GC (e.g., by NWDAF).

The use cases for the 3GPP MDA data are specified in 3GPP TS 28.104 [i.14].

## Service Orchestration SMOS

As part of a zero-touch automation goal for the management of RAN, the SMO is expected to be capable to coordinate autonomously the execution of its services. The Service Orchestration (SO) SMOS plays an important role in the overall SMO automation.

The SO SMOS provides the overseeing capabilities to automate orchestration of one or more O-RAN NFs and associated management (e.g., CM day 0..n) that allow to correlate, sequence and coordinate individual actions performed using other SMOSs, with the end goal of fulfilling requirements that impact one or several NFs, O-Cloud and the Transport Networks (TN) used to interconnect O-RAN NFs (inter-NF) and NF Deployments (intra-NF) when they are deployed over different sites. The SO SMOS offers automation capabilities based on standardized models for automation flows, that enable proper correlation, sequencing, and timing of the needed actions, such as:

- Coordination of the orchestration for one or more RAN NFs (also including multiple NF Deployments), including taking the homing decision considering both the application-level requirements (e.g., assurance levels expected the proximity to radio equipment, etc.) and non-functional requirements (e.g., infrastructure capabilities needed).
- Coordination of management and orchestration for RAN service requests (which could include multiple RAN NFs) that must meet the RAN E2E service requirements and characteristics (e.g., overall availability, RAN E2E SLA, areas for coverage, number of subscribers supported, etc).
- Decomposition of RAN service requests (multiple O-RAN NFs) into the appropriate O-RAN NF constituents, deriving their dimensioning, characteristics and configuration required, to fulfil the received RAN service request.
- Based on data obtained on TNs, selection of a suitable TN that fulfils the requirements of the RAN E2E service requirements and characteristics (e.g., RAN E2E service latency, throughput).
- Capability to process service requests received from upper layer service orchestrators and to perform any required actions to fulfil such request in the RAN management domain.

### Use Cases for SO SMOS

#### Use case: SO dynamic resource orchestration

##### 5.9.2.1.1 High Level Description

This use case shows how the Service Orchestrator dynamically adjusts resource provisioning as traffic demand changes, as expected in the use case described in[i.10]. The SO SMOS consumer in this use case is an SO SMOS Consumer (e.g., rApp) which uses AI/ML to forecast traffic demand and then, based on the forecast, translates it into a request to the SO SMOS Producer. An example of a request is to specify an optimized topology information for a certain traffic volume over a period of time by shutting down several O-RAN NFs for Network Energy Saving, moving the remaining O-RAN NFs to appropriate O-cloud nodes, and rearranging connections between O-RAN NFs.

## Service Assurance SMOS

The SA SMOS responsibility is to sustain the required assurance levels set for the RAN E2E services, or for the O-RAN NFs instances that are managed and orchestrated by the SMO. For this purpose, it collects, consolidates, and detects when the RAN E2E service or NF level assurance falls below the required levels, so that subsequent remedial actions can be taken.

The SA SMOS offers a closed loop automation approach, where:

- It monitors/observes the data that is relevant to assessing the current RAN E2E service and NF assurance levels (including the application and O-Cloud resources used by the software).
- It analyses the observed data in order to determine if the RAN E2E service and NF assurance levels are met or not.
- In case the RAN E2E service and NF assurance levels are not met, decisions are taken on a course of remedial actions.
- The identified actions (e.g., configuration changes, scaling, changes of connectivity, etc.) are executed in collaboration with other SMO services (SO, RAN NF OAM, etc.).
- The closed loop automation is continuously applied, as the data that is relevant to show the result of the remedial actions is again monitored and analysed. Any needed decisions are taken and resulting actions continue to be executed as part of the closed loop automation for assurance purposes, until the monitoring data collected shows an outcome that meets the required assurance levels.

### Use Case:

#### High Level description:

## Software package onboarding SMOS

The software package onboarding SMOS provides support for onboarding software packages such as O-RAN NFs, O-RAN rApps, and O-RAN xApps. The software package onboarding SMOS exposes capabilities for:

- software packages ingestion into SMO,
- security verification of the software packages (e.g., integrity protection such as vendor signatures, etc),
- validation of software packages to ensure that the format and contents can be understood by the SMO,
- extraction of the software package artifacts into appropriate catalogues and storage of software images into the appropriate repos.

## AI/ML Workflow SMOSs

AI/ML workflow SMO Services enable the management of AI/ML related capability in support of O-RAN SMO operations.

The following AI/ML workflow services are currently identified in e.g., [i.3]:

- AI/ML training services: allow an AI/ML training service consumer to request training of an AI/ML model by specifying the training requirements (e.g., required data, model, validation criteria, etc).
- AI/ML model management and exposure services:
- AI/ML model registration/deregistration: allows an AI/ML SMOS producer to register, update the registration of, and deregister the AI/ML model that it provides. An AI/ML SMOS producer needs to be authorised to register, update the registration of, or deregister the AI/ML model it provides.
- AI/ML model discovery: allows an AI/ML SMOS consumer to discover registered AI/ML model(s) based on its selection criteria if it is provided. The AI/ML SMOS consumer needs to be authorised to discover registered AI/ML models.
- AI/ML model change subscription: allows an AI/ML SMOS consumer to subscribe and receive notifications of changes of a registered AI/ML model.
- AI/ML model storage: allows an AI/ML SMOS consumer to request the storage of an AI/ML model it registered and the AI/ML model associated information.
- AI/ML model training capability registration/deregistration (optional service): allows an AI/ML SMOS producer to register/update/deregister its capability of training an AI/ML model.
- AI/ML model retrieval: allows an AI/ML SMOS consumer to request model location details of a specific version of a registered AI/ML model.
- AI/ML model performance monitoring services: allow an authorised AI/ML SMOS consumer to request monitoring the performance of a deployed AI/ML model.

### Use Cases

Use cases involving AI/ML workflow SMO Services are described in [i.10]. Examples are:

- QoE optimization
- Massive MIMO Beamforming Optimization
- RAN Slice SLA Assurance
- Energy Saving

## Policy Management and Information (PMI) SMOS

A policy refers to a set of rules, guidelines, or conditions that govern the behaviour and actions of O-RAN resources and services. Policies are used to automate various aspects of network resources and services; they ensure that the network services and their resources operate in accordance with predefined rules and objectives. Policies can typically be expressed in a structured format that defines the scope, objectives, and conditional statements or constraints.

For the SMO to ensure that O-RAN resources such as O-Cloud, O-RAN nodes are allocated and managed consistently and efficiently, it is important to manage these O-RAN resources through polices. One of the most important goals of Policy Management and Information (PMI) is to support policy-driven decision processes controlled by the SMO within the O-RAN system.

There are three different roles related to policies:

- Policy Administration Point (PAP), responsible for the provisioning of policies (create, update, delete, get),
- (As defined in NIST Glossary here https://csrc.nist.gov/glossary/term/policy_administration_point)
- Policy Decision Point (PDP), responsible to determine where in a decision process a certain policy can be applied, (As defined in NIST Glossary here https://csrc.nist.gov/glossary/term/pdp)
- Policy Enforcement Point (PEP), responsible for the executing the actions derived from the policies. (As defined in NIST Glossary here https://csrc.nist.gov/glossary/term/policy_enforcement_point)
Depending on the use case, a SMOF can act in one or more of these roles.

The Policy Management and Information (PMI) SMOS allows service consumers to specify and provision policies for SMOFs such as the producers of NFO, FOCOM, RANOAM etc., and A1 policies for the Near-RT RIC etc., hence representing the PAP role only. Policy Management and Information (PMI) SMOS decouples policy management from the underlying entities that apply and execute them, i.e., which play a PDP and/or PEP role. The PDP/PEP role can be played by SMOFs or by entities outside SMO, such as in case of A1 policies by the Near-RT RIC.

The Policy Management and Information (PMI) SMOS main capabilities are listed below (non-exhaustive list):

- Policy type registration and deregistration: A PMI SMOS consumer can request to create and register the policy types it supports with Policy Management and Information (PMI), also allows to delete, and deregister policy types. Some examples of policy types can be resource management, LCM such as healing and scaling, monitoring etc.
- Discover and Query Policy types: A PMI SMOS consumer can request to discover, and query supported policy types.
- Create, Query/Read, Update, Delete policies: PMI SMOS consumers can request to create, query/read, update and delete policies for any SMOF (as well as A1 policies for the near-RT RIC) that is supporting the related policy types as known to the PMI.
- Discover Policies: A PMI SMOS consumer can request to discover policies maintained by PMI SMOS producer.
- Policy Status: PMI SMOS consumer request to query/read status of policies, such as enforced, running, not enforced etc. obtained by PMI SMOS producer from the PDPs and PEPs.
- Subscribe/Notify: A PMI SMOS consumer can subscribe for notifications of events such as policy changes related to policies and policy types.

# SMO Functions (SMOFs)

## Possible Solutions for SMOF deployment

This clause describes examples of deployment scenarios for SMO Functions (SMOF).

### Solution Approach 1: RAN NF OAM SMO Function (RNOAMF)

This solution addresses the SMOSs described in section 5.1 “RAN NF OAM related SMOSs”.

This solution approach considers the deployment scenario where there is a RAN NF OAM SMO Function (RNOAMF) which provides the functionality for operations, administration, maintenance, and management of the radio side of the O-RAN architecture as envisioned in the O-RAN OAM architecture [WG10.OAM]. The RAN NF OAM SMO Services (NFPM, NFFM, NFCM) listed in section 5.1.1, 5.1.2, 5.1.3 are produced by the RAN NF OAM SMOF. These SMO Services represent an essential aspect of the SMO and will typically be consumed by the Non-RT RIC and possibly by other SMO Functions. In addition, they could also be consumed by entities within the RAN NF OAM SMOF, for example for coordination or correlation.

### Solution Approach 2: O-Cloud Resources Management and Orchestration SMO Function (ORMO SMOF)

This solution addresses the SMOSs described in section 5.x “O-Cloud resources management and orchestration related SMOSs” and places the NFO SMOS and the FOCOM SMOS together into one SMO Function, the ORMO SMOF.  This approach leverages on the synergies between the two SMOSs and aims to facilitate a level of coordination between them. This is useful specifically in orchestration scenarios, where an automated sequence of NFO and FOCOM actions needs to be orchestrated in order to fulfil the successful deployment of a CNF or a VNF into the right infrastructure resources, respecting the infrastructure requirements from the deployment descriptors of the CNF or VNF.

#### SMOF interactions within SMO

The ORMO SMOF can register its service capabilities using the services of the SME SMOS described in section 5.y. It enables their discoverability by other SMOFs, as well as their external exposure via SME. The ORMO SMOF can discover other SMOSs by consuming SME services.

The ORMO SMOF uses the Topology and Inventory SMOSs to obtain data about inventoried resources managed by other SMOFs (e.g., PNFs for connectivity, cell topology, etc). The ORMO SMOF uses the Topology and Inventory SMOSs to update availability and characteristics data about O-Cloud infrastructure resources and NF deployments managed by ORMO SMOSs.

The ORMO SMOF consumes the DME SMOS described in section 5.5, to:

- register the data types it produces, using the services of the DME SMOS described in section 5.5. This enables the discoverability of ORMO data types by other SMOFs, as well as their external exposure via SME and DME.
- discover data types produced by other SMOSs, for subsequent consumption as part of the ORMO SMOF internal logic.

### Solution Approach x: Non-RT RIC SMO Function (nonRTR SMOF)

This solution addresses the SMOSs described in section 5.2 “Non-RT RIC related SMOSs” and places them under one SMOF.

The nonRTR SMOF offers two main types of capabilities:

- nonRTR SMOF framework capabilities, and
- rApps capabilities, which complement the existing SMOSs and provide enhancements to SMO overall capabilities.
The nonRTRF framework services allow exposure of SMOSs to rApps via the R1 interface.

The nonRTR SMOF interacts with other services in SMO, as follows:

- It registers its service capabilities using the services of the SME SMOS described in section 5.4. This enables the discoverability of the nonRTR SMOF services (including rApps) by other SMOFs, as well as their external exposure via SME.
- It discovers via the SME SMOS other available SMOSs available in the SMO,
- It registers the data types produced by the nonRTR (including rApps) using the services offered by the DME SMOS described in section 5.5;
- It discovers via the DME SMOS other data types available for consumption in the SMO,
- It consumes Topology Exposure and Inventory Management SMOS described in section 5.3:
- to obtain topology data about the RAN network resources, O-Cloud resources, transport resources and any relationship(s) between them.
- to obtain also any network inventory asset data related to RAN, O-Cloud and transport that does not imply a relationship with other assets (e.g., versions of the software available, etc).
- to request updates of topology and inventory data, for the assets that the nonRTR SMOF (including rApps) is authorized and/or responsible to update.
- It consumes any other SMOSs that is authorized to consume from the SMO, such as the RAN NF OAM SMOSs described in section 5.1 and O-Cloud Resources Management and Orchestration SMOSs described in section 5.6.

### Solution Approach: RAN analytics SMOS in non-RT RIC (NONRTR SMOF)

This solution addresses the RAN Analytics SMOS described in section 5.x “RAN Analytics SMOS” and places it under the nonRTR SMOF, as a SMOS produced by rApps.

The rationale behind this solution proposal is that given the wide variety of RAN analytics that can be offered, as well as the fact that support for new RAN analytics (traffic and/or RAN MDA) need to be flexibly added on the fly, the RAN analytics SMOS is produced by the non-RT RIC via rApps.

A depiction of the RAN analytics SMOS in non-RT RIC is shown in the figure below.

### Solution Approach:  Service Orchestration and Assurance (SOSA) SMOF

This solution addresses the SMOSs described in clause 5.9 “Service Orchestration SMOS” and 5.10 “Service Assurance SMOS” and places the SO SMOS and the SA SMOS together into one SMO Function, the SOSA SMOF.  The SO and SA SMOSs have functional correlation and interdependencies, such as orchestration decisions being taken using assurance input and assurance being achieved by leveraging orchestration and automation capabilities. This approach is considering the synergies between the two SMOSs and aims to facilitate a closer coordination between them.

The SOSA SMOF consumes other SMOSs to realize and deliver the SO and SA SMOSs, as follows:

- It consumes the SME SMOS described in section 5.4, to:
- register its service capabilities using the services of the SME SMOS. This enables their discoverability by other SMOFs, as well as their external exposure via SME.
- discover other SMOSs by consuming SME services.
- As applicable, perform service invocation for any SMOSs, by requesting authorization from SME.
- It consumes the DME SMOS described in section 5.5, to:
- register the data types it produces, using the services of the DME SMOS described in section 5.5. This enables the SOSA data types’ discoverability by other SMOFs, as well as their external exposure via SME and DME.
- discover data types produced by other SMOSs, for subsequent consumption as part of the SOSA SMOF internal logic.
- It consumes the Topology and Inventory SMOSs described in section 5.3, to:
- query the TE &IV SMOS to obtain data about inventoried resources managed by other SMOFs (e.g., PNFs for connectivity, cell topology, existing NF instances, etc.) that is needed as input in order to realize its SMOSs.
- populate data using the TE &IV SMOS when it created new RAN services, or to update information related to the successful outcome of the orchestration decisions that it has taken.
- It consumes the RAN NF OAM related SMOSs described in section 5.1, to:
- make OAM management requests related to the O-RAN NFs (e.g., CM, PM, FM).
- It consumes the NFO SMOS described in section 5.6.1, to:
- make lifecycle management requests for the NF Deployments and request day 0 configurations.
- It consumes the FOCOM SMOS described in section 5.6.2, to:
- request management of O-Cloud infrastructure resources, in preparation for deployments of the O-RAN NFs (e.g., obtain information about certain O-Cloud resources, change infrastructure resources allocation to a Node Cluster, create new Node Clusters).
- obtain PM, FM data about the O-Cloud resources which have running NF Deployment instances.
- obtain O-Cloud inventory information about O-Cloud resources.
- It consumes SMOSs offered by rApps via the non-RT RIC, that complement and enhance the functionality offered to SOSA SMOSs, such as:
- RAN Analytics SMOS as described 5.8, to use as input to its orchestration and/or assurance decisions.
- rApps services that provide resolution for the functional composition of requested RAN services and/or O-RAN NFs.
- other rApps that provide services and data that can be consumed by the SOSA SMOF.

#### SMOF interactions with services outside SMO

- request a connectivity that meets certain characteristics.
- query the TN topology to discover existing TNs and their data that are relevant and of interest to the SOSA SMOF.
- retrieve FCAPS data that is relevant for SOSA SMOF to understand the SLA fulfilment level for the TNs is using (e.g., enable monitoring FM, PM for TN by the SMO).

### Solution Approach: Separate SO SMOF and SA SMOF

This solution addresses the SMOSs described in section 5.9 “Service Orchestration SMOS” and section 5.10 ”Service Assurance SMOS” and places the SO SMOS in the SO SMOF and the SA SMOS in the SA SMOF or in the non-RT RIC SMOF.

NOTE: When SA SMOS placed in rApp via Non-RT RIC SMOF, R1 Interface shall include SA related services

#### SO SMOF

##### 6.1.7.1.1 SO SMOF interactions within SMO

The SO SMOF interactions with the SMOS Producers of: SME, DME, TE &IV, RAN NF OAM SMOSs, NFO and FOCOM, are same as described in section 6.1.5.1 of this present document.

#### SA SMOF

##### 6.1.7.2.1 SA SMOF interactions within SMO

The SA SMOF interactions with the SMOS Producers of: SME, DME, TE &IV, RAN NF OAM SMOSs, NFO and FOCOM, are same as described in section 6.1.5.1 of this present document.

In addition, the SA SMOF consumes other SMOSs to realize and deliver the SA SMOS as follows:

- It consumes services of SO SMOS that enable the functionality offered by SA SMOSs, such as:
- To request SO SMOS services for orchestration related actions (e.g., configuration changes, scaling, changes of connectivity, policies etc.) .
- To request coordination of management and orchestration for RAN service requests that include multiple RAN NFs that must meet the RAN E2E service requirements and characteristics (e.g., overall availability, RAN E2E SLA, areas for coverage, number of subscribers supported, etc).
- To interact with SO SMOS within joint closed control loops automation, that involve both SO and SA SMOSs.
- It consumes services of rApps via Non-RT RIC that may assist the functionality offered by SA SMOSs, such as:
- RAN Analytics SMOS as described 5.8, to use as input to its assurance activities.
- Non-RT RIC services realized via rApps that provide resolution for the functional composition of requested RAN services and/or O-RAN NFs.
- Non-RT RIC services realized via rApps that provide other supporting services (e.g., AI/ML-enabled services).

## Recommended Architectural Approach

The SMO capabilities identified as SMOSs in clause 5 of this document are represented in a service-based architecture in the figure 6.2.1-1 below. All the SMO Service producers represented in figure 6.2.1-1 can also be SMOS consumers.

Following the Service Based Architecture principles, only SMO Services are specified to ensure interoperability.

A SMOF implementation can produce and/or consume any combinations of one or more SMOSs, provided that the SMOF complies with the O-RAN specifications of the interfaces exposing the SMOSs.

Except for the Non-RT RIC SMOF which is defined to provide support for rApps and for A1 related SMOSs, the definition of SMOFs is in general not in scope of the O-RAN specifications, as the interoperable functional behaviour of SMOFs is only specified via the SMOS Producer/Consumer roles. For example, a particular Non-RT RIC implementation may be a SMOF producing SME SMOS, DME SMOS, AI/ML workflow SMOS, and the SMOSs anchored in the Non-RT RIC, where both the SME SMOS and DME SMOS are produced and consumed only internally to the SMO.

In order to ensure consistency with the already specified functions related to the SMO interfaces within the O-RAN network domain (i.e., O1, O-FH M-plane, O2, and A1), the following SMOSs identified in section 5 of the present document are recommended to be specified:

- RAN NF OAM SMO Services, including
- RAN NF Performance Assurance Management (NFPM)
- RAN NF Fault Supervision Management (NFFM)
- RAN NF Provisioning Management (NFCM)
- Others, e.g., Tracing, Logging, etc.
- Network Functions Orchestration (NFO) SMOS
- Federated O-Cloud Orchestration and Management (FOCOM) SMOS
- Service Management and Exposure (SME) SMOS [i.8]
- Data Management and Exposure (DME) SMOS [i.8]
- Topology Exposure and Inventory Management (TE&IV) SMOS [i.21]
- RAN Analytics SMOS
- Service & Subnet Slice Orchestration SMOS
- Service & Subnet Slice Assurance SMOS
- AI/ML workflow (AIMLWF) SMOS [i.8]
- rApp Management SMOS [i3]
- A1 Enrichment Information Management SMOS [i.8]
- A1 Policy Management SMOS [i.8]
- Software package onboarding SMOS
- RAN Network Slice Subnet Management,
- Policy Management and Information (PMI).
SME SMOS supports the exposure of other SMOSs, as described in sect. 4.2, to both internal and external SMOS consumers.

DME SMOS supports the exposure of data produced by SMOS Producers, to both internal and external SMOS consumers.

Examples of external SMOS consumers are 5GC/NWDAF, E2E Service Management Domain.

NOTE: the details of the SMO Services that are already defined, or under definition, by O-RAN are described in the referenced specifications.

As an implementation option, SMOS (e.g. RAN Analytics, Service Assurance, etc. - see sect. 6.1) can be provided by SMOF such as the Non-RT RIC SMOF (which can be realized with rApps), or as SMOFs outside Non-RT RIC. Whether the two options will have different requirements on the definition of the SMOS is FFS in the normative phase.

# Conclusion

The analysis conducted in the “Decoupled SMO Architecture” work item demonstrated the feasibility of a Service Based architecture for SMO to be standardized according to the principles described in Sect. 6.2.

SMO Services (SMOS) candidate for the standardization were identified to support the proposed use cases. A description of SMOS and related use case examples is provided in Sect. 5.

For the subsequent normative phase, the following items are identified:

- update the O-RAN Architecture Description specification to reflect the SBA SMO architecture and principles,
- identify the SMOS interfaces to start with in the first phase, and identify the WGs to support ATG, according to their scope and terms of reference,
- define Stage 2 and Stage 3 workplan.
The summary of the SMOS services and the status of related service interface work as of October 2023 is captured in table 7-1 below.

| Standardized SMOS Interface | Status | Reference section |
| --- | --- | --- |
| RAN NF OAM: PM | Initial service description exists in [i.8] [i.3] | 5.1.1 |
| RAN NF OAM: FM | Initial service description exists in [i.8] [i.3] | 5.1.2 |
| RAN NF OAM: CM | Initial service description exists in [i.8] [i.3] | 5.1.3 |
| Non-RT RIC related SMOSs: rApp management | Initial service description will be defined in [i.8] (logging available). | 5.2.1 |
| A1 Policy Management SMOS | Initial service description exists in [i.8] |  |
| A1 Enrichment Information Management SMOS | Initial service description exists in [i.8] |  |
| TE & IV | Initial Information Model exists in [i.21] | 5.3 |
| SME | Initial service description exists in [i.8] [i.3] | 5.4 |
| DME | Initial service description exists in [i.8] [i.3] | 5.5 |
| NFO | New interface to be specified | 5.6.1 |
| FOCOM | New interface to be specified | 5.6.2 |
| RAN analytics | Initial interface description exists in [i.14]. To be further expanded for O-RAN data types. | 5.8 |
| RAN Network Slice Subnet Management | Interface and operations defined in TS 28.531 [i.16]TS 28.532 [i.17]and Network slice subnet NRM related information models defined in clause 6.3 of TS 28.541 [i.18] | 5.7 |
| Service Orchestration | New interface to be specified | 5.9 |
| Service Assurance | New interface to be specified | 5.10 |
| SW package onboarding | New interface to be specified | 5.11 |
| AI/ML workflows | Initial service description will be defined in [i.8] | 5.12 |
| Policy Management and Information (PMI) | New interface to be specified | 5.13 |

# A.1  Use Case NFFM SMOS: Enable Fault Supervision Services

| Use Case Stage | Evolution / Specification | <<Uses>> Related use |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Goal | NFFM SMOS provides fault supervision services to the NFFM SMOS consumers. |  |
| Actors and Roles | RNOAMF (producer of NFFM SMOS): RAN OAM SMOF that produces RAN OAM SMOS.  NFFM SMOS Consumer: SMOF that consumes NFFM SMOS. O-RAN NF: O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU, O-RU or near-RT RIC. SME: Service Management Exposure SMOS. |  |
| Assumptions | None |  |
| Pre-conditions | The RNOAMF (NFFM SMOS) works normally and can provide NFFM SMOS to other SMOF(s). RNOAMF (NFFM SMOS) has registered its data types with DMESs SMOF. Secure network connectivity is already available between O-RAN NF(s). O-RAN NF(s) works normally. |  |
| Begins when | NFFM SMOS Consumer decides to get active alarm list, clear, or acknowledge one or multiple alarms on an NF instance. |  |
| Step 1 | RNOAMF registers NFFM SMOS capabilities by using SME SMOS: GetAlarmList, AcknowledgeAlarms, ClearAlarms; |  |
| Step 2 | NFFM SMOS Consumer discovers the NFFM services via SME SMOS. |  |
| Step 3 | NFFM SMOS Consumer requests service |  |
| Step 4-7 | Service Request is for GetAlarmList |  |
| Step 4 | RNOAMF gets alarm list from the O-RAN NF over O1 interface. |  |
| Step 5 | O-RAN NF returns Alarm List over O1 interface. |  |
| Step 6 | RNOAMF gets alarm list from the O-RAN NF over Open Fronthaul M-plane interface. |  |
| Step 7 | O-RAN NF returns Alarm List over Open Fronthaul M-Plane interface. |  |
| Step 8-15 | Service request is for AcknowledgeAlarms |  |
| Step 8 | If the O-RAN NF supports manual alarm Acknoweldge, RNOAMF sets the acknowledged state for specified alarms in the O-RAN NF over O1 interface. |  |
| Step 9 | O-RAN NF returns success or fail of Modification request |  |
| Step 10 | O-RAN NF sends FM notification. |  |
| Step 11 | If the O-RAN NF supports manual alarm Acknoweldge, RNOAMF sets the acknowledged state for specified alarms in the O-RAN NF over Open Fronthaul M-Plane interface. |  |
| Step 12 | O-RAN NF returns success or fail of Modification request |  |
| Step 13 | O-RAN NF sends FM notification. |  |
| Step 14 | RNOAMF sends AlarmAcknowledged notification if a subscription for it exists |  |
| Step 15 | RNOAMF sends modification notification if a subscription for it exists |  |
| Step 16-23 | Service request is for ClearAlarms |  |
| Step 16 | RNOAMF sets the cleared state for specified alarms in the O-RAN NF over O1 interface. |  |
| Step 17 | O-RAN NF returns success or fail of Modification request |  |
| Step 18 | O-RAN NF sends FM notification. |  |
| Step 19 | RNOAMF sets the cleared state for specified alarms in the O-RAN NF over Open Fronthaul M-Plane interface. |  |
| Step 20 | O-RAN NF returns success or fail of Modification request |  |
| Step 21 | O-RAN NF sends FM notification. |  |
| Step 22 | RNOAMF sends AlarmCleared notification if a subscription for it exists |  |
| Step 23 | RNOAMF sends modification notification if a subscription for it exists |  |
| Step 24 | RNOAMF returns success or fail of service request |  |
| Ends when | SMOS Consumer receives the success or fail of the request. |  |
| Exceptions | Not applicable |  |
| Post Conditions | Not applicable |  |
| Traceability | TODO: FFS |  |

@startuml

Autonumber

skinparam sequenceArrowThickness 2

skinparam ParticipantPadding 5

skinparam BoxPadding 10

Box "Service Management & Orchestration\nFramework\n(Subscriber)" #gold

Participant " SMOS Consumer" as SMOF

Participant "RNOAMF (NFFM SMOS)" as SMOS

Participant "Service Management Exposure" as SMES

end box

Box “O-RAN” #lightpink

Participant "O-RAN\nNF" as NF

end box

ref over SMOS, SMES : Register Fault Supervision Services:\n\tGetAlarmList/Acknowledge Alarms/Clear Alarms

ref over SMOF, SMES : Discover Fault Supervision Services

Autonumber 3

SMOF -> SMOS : ServiceRequest

Alt Request is for AlarmList

Opt If retrieving Alarmlist from O-RAN NF is needed

Alt Use O1

SMOS -> NF : <<01>> Request to get AlarmList

NF --> SMOS : <<01>> AlarmList

Else Use M-Plane

SMOS -> NF : <<Open FH M-Plane>> Request to get AlarmList

NF --> SMOS : <<Open FH M-Plane>> AlarmList

end

end

Else if Request is for AcknowledgeAlarms

Opt Manual Alarm Acknowledge is supported

Alt Use O1

SMOS -> NF : <<01>> Modification

NF --> SMOS : <<01>> Success/Fail

NF ->> SMOS : FM Notification

Else Use M-Plane

SMOS -> NF : <<Open FH M-Plane>> Modification

NF --> SMOS : <<Open FH M-Plane>> Success/Fail

NF ->> SMOS : FM Notification

End

End

Opt If a qualifying Alarm notification subscription exists

SMOS ->> SMOF : AlarmAcknowledgeNotification      End

Opt If a qualifying CM notification subscription exists

SMOS ->> SMOF : ModificationNotification

End   end

Else Request is for ClearAlarms

Alt Use O1

SMOS -> NF : <<01>> Modification

NF --> SMOS : <<01>> Success/Fail

NF ->> SMOS : FM Notification

else Use M-Plane

SMOS -> NF : <<Open FH M-Plane>> Modification

NF --> SMOS : <<Open FH M-Plane>> Success/Fail

NF ->> SMOS : FM Notification

end

Opt If a qualifying Alarm notification subscription exists

SMOS ->> SMOF : AlarmClearNotification

End

Opt If a qualifying CM notification subscription exists

SMOS ->> SMOF : ModificationNotification

EndEnd

SMOS --> SMOF : RequestResponse

@enduml

# A.2 Use Case: Performance Management for NF instances

| Use Case Stage | Evolution / Specification | <<Uses>> Related use |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Goal | NFPM SMOS provides performance measurement services to the NFPM SMOS consumers. |  |
| Actors and Roles | RNOAMF (producer of NFPM SMOS): RAN OAM SMOF that produces RAN OAM SMOS NFPM SMOS Consumer: SMOF that consumes NFPM SMOS O-RAN NF: O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU, O-RU or near-RT RIC SME: Service Management Exposure SMOS |  |
| Assumptions | None |  |
| Pre-conditions | The RNOAMF (NFPM SMOS) works normally, and can provide NFPM SMOS to other SMOF(s) RNOAMF (NFPM SMOS) has registered its data types with DMESs SMOF Secure network connectivity is already available between O-RAN NF(s) O-RAN NF(s) work normally. |  |
| Begins when | NFPM SMOS Consumer decides to create, query, or terminate one or multiple performance measurement job(s) on a NF instance. |  |
| Step 1 | RNOAMF registers NFPM SMOS capabilities using the SME SMOS: Creation / Query / Termination of measurement job, target O-RAN NFs (as applicable). |  |
| Step 2 | NFPM SMOS Consumer discovers the NFPM services via SME SMOS. |  |
| Creation of measurement job |  |  |
| Step 3 | NFPM SMOS Consumer requests creation of PM job to RNOAMF (producer of NFPM) for a specific O-RAN NF instance. |  |
| Step 4-7 | RNOAMF requests collecting performance data to O-RAN NF instance over O1 or Open Fronthaul M-plane. |  |
| Step 8 | The result of PM job creation for the O-RAN NF instance is returned by RNOAMF to NFPM SMOS Consumer. |  |
| Performance reporting: File format |  |  |
| Step 9 | If the collected data are file format, notification that file is ready is sent from RNOAMF to NFPM SMOS Consumer. |  |
| Step 10 | NFPM SMOS Consumer fetches the file from SMO. |  |
| Performance reporting: Data streaming. |  |  |
| Step 11 | RNOAMF provides the performance data stream to the NFPM SMOS consumer. |  |
| Query of measurement job |  |  |
| Step 12 | NFPM SMOS Consumer queries RNOAMF about the information on the PM job(s). |  |
| Step 13 | RNOAMF provides NFPM SMOS Consumer with the requested PM information. |  |
| Termination of measurement job |  |  |
| Step 14 | NFPM SMOS Consumer requests termination of PM job to RNOAMF. |  |
| Step 15-18 | RNOAMF requests stopping the PM job to collect performance data from the O-RAN NF instance. |  |
| Step 19 | The result of PM job termination is returned by RNOAMF to the NFPM SMOS Consumer. |  |
| Ends when | All the steps identified above are successfully completed. |  |
| Exceptions | Not applicable |  |
| Post Conditions | Not applicable |  |
| Traceability | TODO: FFS |  |

Else Use OpenFH M-Plane

End

Else Use OpenFH M-Plane

# A.3 Use Case: Enable Configuration Management Services

| Use Case Stage | Evolution / Specification | <<Uses>> Related use |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Goal | NFCM SMOS provides configuration services to the NFCM SMOS consumers. |  |
| Actors and Roles | RNOAMF(producer of NFCM SMOS): RAN OAM SMOF that produces RAN OAM SMOS.  NFCM SMOS Consumer: SMOF that consumes NFCM SMOS. O-RAN NF: O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU, O-RU or near-RT RIC. SME: Service Management and Exposure SMOS. |  |
| Assumptions | None |  |
| Pre-conditions | The RNOAMF(NFCM SMOS) works normally, and can provide NFCM SMOS to other SMOF(s). RNOAMF(NFCM SMOS) has registered its data types with DMESs SMOF. Secure network connectivity is already available between O-RAN NF(s). O-RAN NF(s) works normally. |  |
| Begins when | NFCM SMOS Consumer decides to manage configuration(creation, deletion, modification, or query) on an NF instance. |  |
| Step 1 | RNOAMF registers NFCM SMOS capabilities using the SME SMOS: Create, Delete, Modify, or Query configuration target O-RAN NF(s)(as applicable). |  |
| Step 2 | NFCM SMOS Consumer discovers the NFCM services via SME SMOS. |  |
| Step 3 | NFCM SMOS Consumer requests service. |  |
| Create configuration |  |  |
| Step 4 | RNOAMF requests O-RAN NF to create instance over O1 interface. |  |
| Step 5 | O-RAN NF returns success or fail of creation request. |  |
| Delete configuration |  |  |
| Step 6 | RNOAMF requests O-RAN NF to delete instance over O1 interface. |  |
| Step 7 | O-RAN NF returns success or fail of deletion request. |  |
| Modify configuration |  |  |
| Step 8,11 | RNOAMF requests O-RAN NF to modify instance or data over O1 or Open Fronthaul M-plane interface. |  |
| Step 9,12 | O-RAN NF returns success or fail of modification request. |  |
| Step10,13 | O-RAN NF sends CM notification. |  |
| Query configuration |  |  |
| Step 14,16 | RNOAMF requests O-RAN NF to query over O1 or Open Fronthaul M-plane interface if retrieving config from the O-RAN NF instance is needed. |  |
| Step 15,17 | O-RAN NF returns the data. |  |
| Step 18 | RNOAMF sends CM notification if a subscription for it exists. |  |
| Step 19 | RNOAMF returns success or fail of service request. |  |
| Ends when | NFCM SMOS Consumer receives the success or fail of the request. |  |
| Exceptions | Not applicable |  |
| Post Conditions | Not applicable |  |
| Traceability | TODO: FFS |  |

Else Use OpenFH M-Plane

End

Else Use OpenFH M-Plane

# A.4 Use Case SO SMOS: SO dynamic resource orchestration

Here, we focus on the role of the SO SMOS and the SO SMOS Producer interactions with other SMOSs, to fulfil the service orchestration request.

The following SO SMOS capabilities are used for enabling dynamic resource orchestration:

- SO SMOS exposes its service orchestration capabilities with the SME SMOS and consumes SME SMOS to discover other SMOSs it might need to consume.
- SO SMOS Producer supports the reception of service orchestration requests from SO SMOS Consumers e.g., non-RT RIC SMOF.
- SO SMOS Producer should be able to execute the service orchestration request received from the SO SMOS Consumers by decomposing the service orchestration request into appropriate management and orchestration actions, and consuming other SMOSs such as the NFCM SMOS, NFO SMOS, TE &IV SMOS, etc.
- SO SMOS Producer can determine the feasibility of executing received service orchestration request (e.g., orchestration policies can be used as part of a decision process).
- SO SMOS Producer can consume the NFCM SMOS to request configuration of the O-RAN NFs and to change the connection points configuration between O-RU and O-DU, O-DU and O-CU.
- When the SO SMOS Producer has to reduce the capacity of an O-RAN NF instance (e.g., to scale down, disable or terminate O-DU and O-CU instances), it determines the composition of the affected O-RAN NFs into their constituent NF Deployments. Then the SO SMOS Producer requests the identified LCM actions on each of the NF Deployments, by consuming the NFO SMOS.
- SO SMOS Producer can interact with Transport Network (TN) Managers (external to SMO). The SO SMOS Producer requests TN configuration changes to the network devices of TN that constitute the front-haul and mid-haul associated with O-RU, O-DU and O-CU connection, by consuming the external services exposed by a TN Manager.
- SO SMOS Producer can consume the TE & IV SMOS to update the RAN related topology information in the TE &IV repository upon successful completion of the service orchestration actions.

| Use Case Stage | Evolution / Specification | <<Uses>> Related use |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Goal | SO SMOS implements service orchestration based on the service orchestration request generated by the SO SMOS Consumer (e.g., an rApp). |  |
| Actors and Roles | SME SMOS：Service Management and Exposure, described in sect. 5.4. SO SMOS Consumer (e.g., rApp)  SO SMOS Producer ORMO SMOF (NFO SMOS Producer), described in sect. 6.1.2 RAN NF OAM SMOF (NFCM SMOS Producer), described in section 6.1.1 TN Managers, external to SMO TE & IV SMOS described in section 5.3. |  |
| Assumptions | O2 interface connectivity is established between SMO and O-Cloud  O1 interface connectivity is established.  Network is operational. |  |
| Pre-conditions | The rApp has discovered the SO SMOS capabilities via SME. The SO SMOS Consumer (e.g., rApp) is an authorized consumer.  RAN NF OAM SMOF registered its NFCM SMOS capabilities with SME. ORMO registered the NFO SMOS capabilities with SME. TN Manager registered the TN Manager service capabilities with SME. TE & IV SMOS is registered with SME. |  |
| Begins when | The operator has made the decision to suspend unnecessary resources during off-peak hours.  The rApp has determined the service orchestration request it has to make to the SO SMOS Producer |  |
| Step 1 (M) | SO SMOS Producer registers the SO SMOS capabilities with the SME. |  |
| Step 2 (M) | After successful service registration, the SME SMOS Producer responds to SO SMOS Producer with the service profile ID. |  |
| Step 3 (M) | The SO SMOS Consumer (e.g., rApp) determines that it needs to make a service orchestration request. The SO SMOS Consumer will consume services of the SME SMOS to discover the SO SMOS. |  |
| Step 4 (M) | The SO SMOS Consumer uses the SO SMOS to make the request for shutdown and redeployment of several O-RAN NFs. |  |
| Step 5 (M) | SO SMOS Producer determines the necessary actions for the service request, in this use case, these are configuration changes to O-RAN NFs and LCM actions on their constituent NF Deployment instances. |  |
| Step 6 (M) | SO SMOS Producer performs the actions it identified by consuming the NFCM SMOS to make configuration changes to the O-RAN NFs. |  |
| Step 7 (M) | SO SMOS Producer queries the latest topology information by consuming the TE & IV SMOS to find out which NF Deployment instances are related to the O-RAN NFs. |  |
| Step 8 (M) | SO SMOS Producer performs the LCM actions it identified as appropriate on the respective NF Deployment instances (e.g., terminate) by consuming the NFO SMOS. |  |
| Step 9 (M) | SO SMOS Producer performs the actions it identified by consuming the TN Management Service to make network setting changes to the front-haul and mid-haul. |  |
| Step 10 (O) | SO SMOS notifies its SO SMOS Consumer (e.g., rApp) about the completion of the service orchestration actions. |  |
| Ends when | The SO has completed the requested service orchestration actions. |  |
| Exceptions | TBD |  |
| Post Conditions | End |  |

| Date | Revision | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 2022.xx.yy | 01.00 | Published as Final version 01.00 |
| 2024.xx.yy | 02.00 | Published as Final version 02.00 |
| 2024-05-13 | V02.00.01 | Incorporated approved CR: CMCC-2023.12.01-WG1-CR-103-DEC_SMO-TR__addRecommandSolution_v07 |
| 2024-07-10 | V02.00.01 | Updated the SMO release title and file naming, from R003 to R004 |


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG1.TR.FILM.R004-v01.00.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG1.TR.FILM-R004-v01.00.00 O-RAN Work Group 1 (Use Cases and Overall Architecture)"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in [i.1] and the following apply: Filtered Measurements: Measurement data selectively obtained by NFs from performance observations associated with UEs that meet specific, pre-defined filtering conditions. Target data: A configuration parameter for Filtered Measurements, referring to the measurement data to be retrieved (e.g., 3GPP or O-RAN defined performance measurements). Filter data: A configuration parameter for Filtered Measurements, referring to the measurement variables used to define the filtering conditions.

## 3.2 Symbols
Void

## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in [i.1] and the following apply: 3GPP Third Generation Partnership Project 5QI 5G QoS Identifier AI/ML Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning BSR Buffer Status Report CQI Channel Quality Indicator DL Downlink eNB evolved Node B FILM Filtered Measurements gNB next generation Node B GoB Grid of Beams HARQ Hybrid Automatic Repeat Request iBLER Initial Block Error Rate ICIC Inter-Cell Interference Coordination IMEI International Mobile Equipment Identity IMSI International Mobile Subscriber Identity IOC Information Object Class KPI Key Performance Indicator LTE Long Term Evolution MCS Modulation and Coding Scheme MDT Minimization of Drive Tests MIMO Multiple Input Multiple Output mMIMO Massive MIMO MnS Management Service MU-MIMO Multi-User MIMO NG-RAN Next Generation Radio Access Network NR NSA New Radio Non-Standalone NR SA New Radio Standalone O-CU O-RAN Central Unit O-CU-CP O-RAN Central Unit - Control Plane O-CU-UP O-RAN Central Unit - User Plane O-DU O-RAN Distributed Unit O-RU O-RAN Radio Unit PDCP Packet Data Convergence Protocol PHR Power Headroom Report PLMN Public Land Mobile Network PM Performance Measurements / Performance Management PMI Precoding Matrix Indicator PRB Physical Resource Block QoE Quality of Experience RLF Radio Link Failure RNOAMF RAN NF OAM SMO Function RSRQ Reference Signal Received Quality RSSI Received Signal Strength Indicator S-NSSAI Single Network Slice Selection Assistance Information S-TMSI 5G Temporary Mobile Subscriber Identity SRS Sounding Reference Signal SS-RSRP Synchronization Signal Reference Signal Received Power SU-MIMO Single-User MIMO SUPI Subscription Permanent Identifier UE User Equipment UL Uplink VR Virtual Reality

# 4 Measurement data filtering in O-RAN
In this document, the measurement data filtering refers to the process of selectively extracting performance data based on predefined criteria, offering a balance between the granularity of per-UE data and aggregated data. This intermediate approach is critical in providing actionable insights while managing data volume effectively, ensuring that only relevant data is analysed for network optimization. Clause 4.1 highlights the key usages of measurement data filtering in O-RAN, particularly in enabling performance evaluation and operational enhancements for xApps and rApps. Clause 4.2 explores the current approaches to measurement data filtering, analysing their methodologies and inherent limitations to identify areas for improvement.

## 4.1 Usages of measurement data filtering
4.1.1 xApp and rApp performance evaluation Measurement data filtering enables network engineers to conduct targeted performance evaluations by focusing on the impact of configuration changes applied by xApps and rApps. Consequently, engineers can isolate and analyse the metrics that reflect performance variations of their interest, ensuring an accurate assessment of the network's response to these configurations. This facilitates continuous improvement in network functionality and operational efficiency. Data collected from the O-DU or O-CU is delivered to the RNOAMF within the SMO framework via the O1 interface or other interfaces. The engineers then can utilize this filtered data from RNOAMF to monitor and evaluate the performance of xApps and rApps, either through file-based reports or real-time data streams, depending on the monitoring requirements. 4.1.2 xApp and rApp operation Measurement data filtering enables xApps and rApps to use filtered measurement data as an essential input for their operations and to rely on it again to monitor the outcomes of these operations. This feedback loop ensures that the applications can adapt to dynamic network conditions and achieve their intended objectives. In the case of AI/ML-based xApps and rApps, high-quality and relevant measurement data is critical for both training and inference phases, supporting accurate decision-making and operational optimization. rApps consume measurement data through RNOAMF within the SMO framework. On the other hand, xApps collect and consume measurement data directly from the O-DU or O-CU through E2 interface. This direct integration allows xApps to both act on the data in real-time and evaluate the effects of their operations, creating a closed loop of data utilization.

## 4.2 Current approaches to measurement data filtering in O-RAN

### 4.2.1 O1 performance measurements with sub-counters
In 3GPP TS 28.552 [i.4], 5G performance measurements (PMs) are specified. O-RAN defines additional PMs by extending 3GPP-defined PMs and introducing O-RAN-specific PMs in the O1 Performance Measurements Specification [i.7]. These PMs are calculated per O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU, or cell. For these PMs, the 3GPP filtering mechanism can be applied, allowing the PMs to be refined by creating sub-counters with single or multiple filters combined. In the current specifications, the applicable filters include 5QI, SNSSAI, and PLMN. However, the current sub-counters have limitations due to the limited range of applicable filters, which prevents the generation of PMs focused on specific targets. This means sub-counters filtered in broad ranges, such as 5QI, SNSSAI, and PLMN, lack the ability to capture finer details. For example, in the interference detection and optimization use case, the control target is not users with a specific 5QI or slice, but rather UEs with high interference, such as cell-edge UEs. By using PMs focused on this optimization use case, using PMs focused on the group of UEs with high traffic volume, which have significant gain from the use of massive MIMO, can further enhance performance. However, sub-counters focused on these aspects are not available in the current specifications. This leads to distorted analysis using PMs calculated with irrelevant data, resulting in lower performance.

### 4.2.2 O1 trace data and its filtering
This clause describes O1 trace data, which offers much higher granularity by operating at the UE or call level. This enables grouping based on specific characteristics such as CQI, rank, or traffic volume, providing highly detailed insights, only after applying the trace to a number of UEs. However, the sheer volume of trace data imposes significant processing burdens on O- DU or O-CU, making this approach impractical for efficient system operation. Therefore, such data should be able to be filtered by additional functions located in the Network Function such as the O-DU and O-CU. The size of collected data would be huge if it includes all UEs or is collected with high periodicity. To address this, a strict file size limit is sometimes imposed, with excess data discarded for that period. Alternatively, a sampling approach may be employed — for example, recording traces from only 20% of devices. However, typically, only a small fraction of such reports proves useful for any specific analysis, making this process inefficient in terms of bandwidth and storage utilization. Furthermore, trace data is considered low priority and is the first to be dropped in the event of processing or transport issues. These limitation methods risk discarding critical information, potentially impacting the analysis.

### 4.2.3 E2SM-KPM condition-based measurement
In [i.8], it is specified that the E2 Node hosts the RAN Function “KPM Monitor”, which provides several key functionalities, including the exposure of available measurements from the O-DU, O-CU-CP, and/or O-CU-UP via the RAN Function Definition IE, and the periodic reporting of measurements subscribed by the Near-RT RIC. Notably, the “KPM Monitor” RAN Function also supports condition-based measurement through certain RIC REPORT Service Styles. This condition-based approach offers greater granularity compared to traditional PM data and incorporates some of the benefits of trace data, such as finer insights at the UE or call level. As a result, E2SM-KPM is an effective tool for addressing data needs in use cases requiring high levels of responsiveness and precision. More specifically, measurement data filtering is enabled by the Matching Condition IE included in E2SM-KPM Action Definition Formats 3 and 4, corresponding to RIC Service Styles 3 and 4, respectively. The Matching Condition is further divided into two categories: Label Information and Test Information. Label Information functions similarly to a subcounter, grouping data into predefined categories, while Test Information identifies UEs that meet specific conditions. Table 4.2.3-1 lists the available conditions IEs in [i.8] for Label Information and Test Information. It is notable that the conditions are added according to the identified use cases across O-RAN working groups. Label Information Test Information PLMN ID GBR Slice ID AMBR 5QI IsStat QFI IsCatM QCI DL RSRP Layer at MU-MIMO DL RSRQ SSB Index UL RSRP Non-GoB Beamforming CQI Mode Index MIMO Mode Index 5QI CGI QCI Beam ID S-NSSAI Despite its advantages, E2SM-KPM data is accessible only to the Near-RT RIC (xApps) due to its reliance on the E2 interface. This restricts other entities, such as SMO or Non-RT RIC (rApps), from directly consuming this filtered data. This architectural limitation reduces the broader usability of E2SM-KPM across O-RAN architecture. In addition, the predefined conditions in the current E2SM-KPM specification may not fully support more complex or dynamic use cases. For instance, the ability to filter measurement data based on UE’s traffic volume is either limited or undefined. This lack of sophistication in condition definitions hinders the adoption of E2SM-KPM for advanced scenarios requiring real-time adaptability and granularity, necessitating future enhancements to the specification.

# 5 Filtered Measurements for O-RAN
Based on the limitations identified in clause 4, this clause introduces Filtered Measurements and its key requirements. Subsequently, in accordance with the defined key requirements, it investigates possible enhancements to O-RAN

## 5.1 Definition
Filtered Measurements in the O-RAN architecture is a targeted approach to measurement data collection aimed at optimizing and evaluating the functionality of rApps and xApps. This method selectively gathers measurement data of UEs that meet specific, predefined criteria. At the core of Filtered Measurements is the idea that the intervention of rApps or xApps is not meant to uniformly impact all UEs in the cell. Instead, these interventions are hypothesized to have a more pronounced effect on specific UEs that may behave differently from the overall population. Therefore, measurement data needs to be filtered to focus on those UEs whose performance is expected to be most affected by the rApp or xApp intervention. The intervention, in this context, refers to changes in the network functions’ configuration set by the rApp or xApp. The O-DU or O-CU regularly collects performance data, where data points corresponding to each UE consist of multiple performance metrics. Among these, a specific variable of interest, referred to as target data, is monitored to evaluate performance changes. Filtered Measurements can apply one or more filtering criteria based on filter data. These filtering criteria help select a subgroup of UEs that are most relevant for performance analysis. When multiple filter data variables are used, a combination of these variables can define more complex filtering conditions, allowing for greater precision in identifying UEs likely to be most affected by the rApp or xApp intervention. In summary, while no meaningful change in the average of the target data may be observed across all UEs, a significant difference can emerge when analysing only those UEs that meet the conditions defined by the filter data. This selective measurement approach allows for more targeted and effective performance evaluation, ensuring that rApps and xApps can be fine-tuned based on relevant data rather than noise from the entire dataset.

## 5.2 Key requirements for Filtered Measurements
This clause defines the key requirements for Filtered Measurements in the O-RAN architecture. These requirements are derived from the use cases identified in clause 6. The primary goal of Filtered Measurements is to enable rApps (and SMO) and xApps (and Near-RT RIC) to retrieve relevant performance data — either in aggregated or per-UE level (figure 5.2-1) — for a subset of UEs that satisfy specific, predefined conditions.
- REQ-FILM-01: The Filtered Measurements functionality should be applicable to NR SA, NR NSA, and LTE.
- REQ-FILM-02: Filtered Measurements should support the capability to retrieve target data for UEs that meet specific
filtering conditions, which are defined based on given filter data.
- REQ-FILM-03: Filtered Measurements should support the capability to filter out data that is not required for a specific
purpose before it is retrieved, in order to reduce the volume of data that is carried over an interface.
- REQ-FILM-04: Filtered Measurements should support the capability to retrieve target data in real-time streaming.
- REQ-FILM-05: Filtered Measurements should support the capability to retrieve target data in file-based bulk transfer.
- REQ-FILM-06: The target data should consist of performance measurements defined by 3GPP or the O-RAN Alliance,
such as 3GPP TS 28.552 [i.4], 3GPP TS 32.425 [i.16], 3GPP TS 28.558 [i.13], 3GPP TS 32.423 [i.5], or O-RAN TS WG10.PMeas [i.7].
- REQ-FILM-07: The filter data used to define a subset of UEs should be configurable and may involve single or multiple
parameters in combination.
- REQ-FILM-08: The time window used to evaluate whether UEs belong to a given group based on filter data should be
configurable independently of the measurement granularity.
- REQ-FILM-09: The SMO should be able to retrieve aggregated target data (e.g., sum, average, distribution) for UEs
that meet specific filtering conditions, which can be used as input for rApps or for evaluation of rApps.
- REQ-FILM-10: The SMO should be able to retrieve per-UE target data for UEs that meet specific filtering conditions,
which can be used as input for rApps or for evaluation of rApps.
- REQ-FILM-11: Near-RT RIC should be able to retrieve aggregated target data (e.g., sum, average, distribution) for
UEs that meet specific filtering conditions, which can be used as input for xApps.
- REQ-FILM-12: Near-RT RIC should be able to retrieve per-UE target data for UEs that meet specific filtering
conditions, which can be used as input for xApps. Use Case Interface Source → Target data Filter data Aggregated New or target or Per-UE existing Massive MIMO O1 O-DU → - DL/UL UE - Traffic volume Aggregated Partially new Optimization SMO throughput - MIMO mode index
- DL PDCP
throughput Interference O1/E2 O-DU → - DL SS-SINR per - UE ID Aggregated Partially new Detection and SMO/Near- UE - Slice ID Optimization RT RIC - UL CQI per UE - PRB usage per cell /Per-UE
- UL MCS per UE - DL SS-RSRP per UE,
- Throughput per UL SRS-RSRP per UE
UE
- Uplink
interference per UE QoE Optimization O1 O-DU → - Latency - Slice ID Aggregated Partially new SMO - Throughput - 5QI
- RLF ratio - RSRP
- iBLER - Traffic volume
- PRB allocation - Velocity
MU-MIMO O1 O-DU → - DL/UL - MIMO mode (SU/MU- Aggregated Partially new Optimization SMO throughput MIMO)
- iBLER - Slice ID
- MU-MIMO PRB - Scheduled MU-MIMO
utilization UE list
- Spectral
efficiency
- CQI, RI
UE capability O1 O-DU → - RSRP - UE capability Per-UE Partially new based SMO - Throughput - RSRP threshold measurements - Call quality - Throughput threshold

## 5.3 Potential solutions for Filtered Measurements
In this clause, three potential solutions for Filtered Measurements is studied for future normative work, in which interface specifications will be enhanced to support this feature. As stated in Clause 5.1, Filtered Measurements is aimed at selectively gathering performance data from UEs that meet specific predefined criteria, for purposes such as operation or evaluation of rApps or xApps. From the perspective of rApps, to achieve this, each solution needs to enable the MnS consumer in the SMO to configure filter data and target data for the producer, and to collect the intended Filtered Measurements. On the other hand, xApps can collect Filtered Measurements by utilizing E2SM-KPM condition-based measurement [i.8]. Naturally, with the current specifications, there may be limitations in fully supporting more complex or dynamic use cases. Nevertheless, since E2SM-KPM can support Filtered Measurements by adding or modifying Label Information or Test Information, Clause 5.3 focuses on rApps.

### 5.3.1 Solution 1: Enhanced PM job via O1 interface for O-CU/O-DU
This solution aims to enhance the existing PM job to support Filtered Measurements. This will be enabled by incorporating the mechanism used for E2SM-KPM [i.8] into O1 interface for O-CU/O-DU, as described below. Regarding filter data, the existing PMs already support filtering by sub-counters such as 5QI, SNSSAI, and PLMN [i.4]. However, the current method of appending sub-counters after the measurement name, in the format of "family.measurementName.subcounter" [i.10], is overly complex and lacks scalability when supporting various types of filter data. Therefore, it is preferable to add new attributes for configuring the filter data to NRMs for the existing PM job. Specifically, a new IOC for Filtered Measurements will be defined, which will inherit PerfMetricJob IOC (Clause 4.3.31 in [i.10]), and it will include attributes for filter data and threshold values. Regarding target data, data supported in Filtered Measurements should include both aggregated data (e.g., cell-level) and UE- level data as shown in Figure 5.3.1-2.
- For aggregated data, various PMs have been specified in TS 28.552 [i.4] and O1 PMeas [i.7]. This data is generated by
aggregating data for all UEs within a measurement object, such as a cell (NRCellDU, NRCellCU), and calculating totals, averages, distributions, etc. In Filtered Measurements, data is aggregated only across UEs in the cell that meet the filter conditions.
- For UE-level data, the conversion mechanism employed in E2SM-KPM (Clause 7.9 in [i.8]) can be utilized for Filtered
Measurements, allowing PMs defined per cell or per CU to be converted to UE-level data. For example, average DL UE throughput in gNB (Clause 5.1.1.3.1 in [i.4]) is calculated by dividing total transmitted data volume across all UEs in the cell by the total transmission time. To obtain UE-level data, this calculation is performed by focusing on the data volume and transmission time for a single UE. In addition, UE-level data is collected only from UEs that meet the filter conditions. This allows for the collection of a wide variety of UE-level data only from UEs of interest to support various use cases. For this purpose, the new IOC for Filtered Measurements mentioned above will also include attributes for selecting whether data is cell-level or UE-level. o P f t eh re fo c r mo r S ar e O

# M O
n c e m s p o n
- C U
e t d in / O r ic s g U
- D
E U s O M M PM job Instance #1 n S C n S P PM job Instance #2 o r n o s d u u m c e e r r PM job Instance # N : 1 jobId : 2 jobId … : jobId N w P it h M F J o ilte br c D oa nt fig u r a (c o an t io n d it io n )

### 5.3.2 Solution 2: Enhanced trace job via O1 interface for O-CU/O-DU
This solution aims to enhance the existing trace job to support Filtered Measurements by enabling the Trace MnS consumer in the SMO to configure filter data for TraceJob instances via the O1 interface. The goal is to allow O-CU and O-DU to apply trace jobs selectively to UEs that meet predefined conditions, with minimal impact on existing trace job structures. TraceJob IOC, defined in TS 28.622 [i.10], supports multiple types of trace operations through attributes such as traceConfig, mdtConfig, and ueCoreMeasConfig. These job types include trace [i.11], Minimization of Drive Tests (MDT) [i.12], and UE- level performance measurements [i.13]. Each job type can be configured individually or in combination using the jobType attribute, as defined in TS 32.422 [i.11]. However, current target UE selection mechanisms under targetTrace are limited to static identifiers or location-based criteria. The selection is typically based on NG-RAN cells, area information, or subscriber/device identifiers such as IMSI, IMEI, SUPI, or S-TMSI. There is no mechanism to select UEs based on per-UE information that resides within the RAN, such as signal strength or data volume. As a result, it is not possible to restrict trace activation to a meaningful subset of UEs, which may lead to excessive trace data collection from all UEs or require vendor-specific random sampling implementations. To address this, enhancements to the TraceJob IOC are required. This includes the introduction of new attributes that allow configuration of filter data with condition-based selection criteria. For example, thresholds on RAN-internal metrics may be specified to enable the MnS producer to autonomously select a subset of UEs for trace reporting. These enhancements would enable trace-based Filtered Measurements, while preserving compatibility with existing O-RAN O1 Trace Management Services as defined in O-RAN.WG10.TS.O1-Interface [i.14].

### 5.3.3 Solution 3: Enhanced PM job via O1 interface for Near-RT RIC exploiting
E2SM-KPM This solution aims to enhance the existing PM job to support Filtered Measurements by leveraging E2SM-KPM with the Near- RT RIC. First, the MnS consumer in the SMO requests the MnS producer in the Near-RT RIC to generate performance metrics, i.e., Filtered Measurements. This process is equivalent to the one described in Solution 1; that is, the existing PM job is enhanced by adding new attributes to the NRMs for configuring filter data and target data. Second, upon receiving the request from the consumer, the producer in the Near-RT RIC communicates with one or more xApps via Near-RT RIC APIs to request the collection of measurement data. Upon receiving the request from the MnS producer, the xApps acquire condition-based measurements via the E2 interface using E2SM-KPM Style 3 and(or) Style 4. Using these data, the xApps generate the performance metrics, which are then transferred to the producer. Finally, the requested performance metrics are transferred from the producer to the consumer. o f t h e T r a c o cr

# S M
e r e r e s p

# O - co
C O on r dd U sin / O g U
- D
E s U O M Trace Job Instance # 1 M n S C n S P Trace Job Instance # 2 o r n o s d u u m c e e r r Trace Job Instance # N jo b Id : 1 jo b Id : 2 … jo b Id : N T r a c e S e w s s io T r a it h n c F e J o ilt e r b D c oa t na f ig( c uo rn ad t io n it io n ) SMO MnS Consumer O1 Performance metrics PM Job configuration of the corresponding UEs with Filter Data (condition) Near-RT RIC Near-RT RIC APIs Near-RT RIC Platform xApp#1 MnS Producer xApp#2 PM job PM job … PM job … Instance Instance Instance #1 #2 #N xApp#N jobId: 1 jobId: 2 jobId: N E2 E2SM-KPM O-CU/O-DU RAN Function KPM Monitor

# 6 Key use cases and benefits analysis
To analyse performance and enhance quality using Filtered Measurements, it is essential to select the appropriate use case, define suitable filtering criteria, and analyse the benefits of Filtered Measurements. Therefore, this clause aims to provide key use cases suitable for the application of Filtered Measurements, as well as the benefits derived from its application. In O-RAN WG1, numerous multi-WG use cases are defined and discussed. Use cases suitable for the application of Filtered Measurements will be selected from among those identified, and the expected benefits from applying the appropriate filtering criteria will be analysed. It is notable that the use cases for Filtered Measurements are not limited to those described in this clause.

## 6.1 Use case #1: Massive MIMO optimization

### 6.1.1 Background information
In the WG1 Massive MIMO use case TR [i.6], AI/ML-assisted non-GoB optimization is introduced along with its required input data for training. Specifically, it is assumed that the SMO/Non-RT RIC is responsible for obtaining beamforming configuration information from the gNB/O-DU, as well as for model training and the deployment of the xApp to the Near-RT RIC. The Non- RT RIC first requests a report of supported beamforming configurations from the O-DU. Subsequently, the process enters the data collection phase, during which the Non-RT RIC requests data collection from the O-DU via O1 through the “Collection and Control” function. The O-DU responds with measurements over O1, such as SINR, with these measurements being associated with each of the N beamforming modes (referred to as the “associated non-GoB mMIMO mode”). Specific measurements defined in [i.4] may be reused, such as: average DL UE throughput in the gNB, wideband CQI distribution, RSRQ measurements, RSRP measurements, and SINR measurements. Additionally, information related to 3GPP configurations, such as SRS periodicity, is also reported. Using this data, the Non-RT RIC trains AI/ML model(s) that predict the relative performance between the N modes (or simply identify the best mode) and deploys the trained models in the xApp to the Near-RT RIC. It is noteworthy that one of the requested input data items, "Average DL UE throughput [i.4] in gNB with associated non-GoB mMIMO mode," requires the introduction of a new per-UE reporting mechanism that incorporates the associated non-GoB mMIMO mode index.

### 6.1.2 Motivation
The current methodologies employed by the Non-RT RIC for collecting, consuming and utilizing 'average DL/UL UE throughput with associated non-GoB mMIMO mode' encounter several challenges when utilized for non-GoB mMIMO optimization. These include: Noise from small traffic UEs: Small traffic UEs, characterized by low data volumes, introduce noise into throughput statistics. These low-traffic UEs, whose behavior is not related to beamforming modes, often dominate the dataset, skewing the distribution toward low-throughput values and obscuring meaningful distinctions between beamforming modes. This noise reduces the sensitivity of comparisons, as it fails to reflect the true performance capabilities of different configurations. High-traffic UEs, by contrast, provide data that better represents the network's ability to handle substantial traffic loads over extended periods, offering a more accurate assessment of beamforming performance. Filtering with non-GoB mMIMO Mode Index: E2SM-KPM defines condition-based measurements reports via E2 interface. In particular, its REPORT Service Style 3 (or Style 4), (common) condition-based UE-level measurements, employs Label Information IE as a condition to include the UEs with certain non-GoB mMIMO mode index. However, the measurements collected at the Near-RT RIC are not made accessible to the Non-RT RIC. Moreover, while the O1 Performance Assurance MnS is capable of selectively collecting measurements based on subcounters, it currently lacks subcounters related to MIMO modes.

### 6.1.3 Potential solution
It is proposed that the Non-RT RIC trains its model based on the "average DL/UL UE throughput in gNB with associated non- GoB mMIMO mode," considering only traffic that is large enough. The new measurements, so called Filtered Measurements in this document, filter out small traffic UEs, which act as noise. As shown in Figure 6.1.3-1, it is expected that throughput variations between two different beamforming modes will be captured more sensitively when only UEs with large and sustained traffic are considered. For example, the variants of red lines which refer to average of the throughput distribution are expected to be more significant with filtering rather than without filtering. One possible solution involves pegging the counters in a filtered event-triggered manner within the O-DU or O-CU. These counters, referred to as the filtered counters, are updated whenever the traffic buffer for a DRB is emptied during the measurement interval. If filtering is applied, traffic bursts that are small in volume can be excluded, preventing them from triggering counter updates. Filtering can be implemented at either the traffic burst level or the DRB/UE level. Figure 6.1.3-2 illustrates how the counters are updated in a burst-level, filtered, event-triggered manner for DL PDCP UE throughput. The filtered counters are expected to be collected and consumed by the Non-RT RIC via the O1 interface through Performance Assurance MnS, similarly to how other traditional PMs are collected. This approach of generating Filtered Measurements based on the filtered counters enables a clearer and more accurate comparison of different beamforming modes, while the O1-based consumption of Filtered Measurements allows the Non-RT RIC to access the measurements without relying on E2SM-KPM.

### 6.1.4 Benefits of Filtered Measurements
To verify the benefits of Filtered Measurements, the changes in DL PDCP throughput statistics were analysed when applying SRS-based beamforming and PMI-based beamforming to a cluster in Gwangju, South Korea. Non-standard, vendor-specific statistics with filtering capabilities were utilized. When filtering was applied, only traffic bursts exceeding 8 Mbit in volume were included in the statistics. Additionally, the DL throughput statistics were extracted in the form of a bin distribution, with the bin size set to 150 Mbps. Figures 6.1.4-1 and 6.1.4-2 below illustrate the effect of filtering on DL PDCP throughput distribution for SRS-based and PMI- based beamforming modes. The first histogram (without filtering) demonstrates a high concentration of low-throughput samples (0–150 Mbps), with negligible differentiation between the two beamforming modes. Conversely, the second histogram (with filtering) highlights a more distinct throughput distribution, where small traffic bursts are excluded, resulting in clearer distinctions between SRS-based and PMI-based beamforming in the higher throughput ranges. These results underline the importance of applying filtering to eliminate noise from low-volume traffic and enable meaningful performance comparisons between beamforming modes.

## 6.2 Use case #2: Interference detection and optimization

### 6.2.1 Background information
LTE and 5G networks face challenges with co-frequency interference due to limited radio resources, hindering network performance. Traditional Inter-Cell Interference Coordination (ICIC) solutions aim to manage radio resources across cells by restricting their use or adjusting transmitting power. However, these solutions face several limitations:
- They allocate resources statically or in non-real-time, resulting in low utilization.
- They depend on ideal cell networking structures, performing poorly in complex networks.
- They only support cell-level allocation, not user or user group levels.
- They use measurement data for post-interference analysis rather than real-time adjustments.
The interference detection and optimization use case [i.2][i.3] addresses these limitations by dynamically managing radio resources for a specific UE, UE group, or slice, thus further improving the efficiency of radio resource utilization. In addition to LTE and 5G interference, other non-3GPP types of interference experienced in a 5G network, including internal and external RF interference, need to be detected and optimized. To support effective interference optimization, there is a need to identify the source of the interference in terms of interference type and geographical location.

### 6.2.2 Motivation
The operation and performance evaluation for interference detection, classification, locating, and optimization should be performed based on interference-related data focusing on a specific UE group, e.g., a cell-edge UE group or a slice, which is the primary target of improvement. Especially in detection, classification, and locating, a greater variety of filtering criteria can be applied to achieve the objectives with more effectiveness. Otherwise, irrelevant data could cause inappropriate optimization or evaluation errors. In case of the slow-loop optimization performed in the SMO/Non-RT RIC, the following data available in the SMO/Non-RT RIC pose the following challenges:
- Performance measurements such as SINR are defined per cell [i.4] and are not appropriate for optimizing interference
and evaluating its effectiveness for the specific UE group.
- UE trace (MDT) data are defined per UE [i.5], but it is difficult to trace all the UEs belonging to the specific UE group
because of the random selection of the traced UEs. This can lead to insufficient data for interference optimization and evaluation, and the influence on UEs which are not traced cannot be analysed. Moreover, data unnecessary for optimization and evaluation can be collected. For example, data can be collected from cell-center UEs which are not the target of the interference suppression due to the random selection of traced UEs, or data may be collected when the cell load is low and there is little interference. In addition, the data supported in MDT is limited and not enough for optimization and evaluation, e.g., UL RSRP is not available.
- UE log data captured through driving tests can be used only for evaluation, but this approach requires time and effort.
Moreover, the number of data samples that can be obtained in one drive is small, making it difficult to statistically evaluate the performance. In case of the fast-loop optimization performed in Near-RT RIC, the predefined conditions in the current E2SM-KPM [i.8] specification may not fully support classification and locating use cases. For instance, the ability to filter measurement data based on UE’s direction or range is undefined. This lack of sophistication in condition definitions limits the accuracy and effectiveness in classification and locating. The main objective of this use case is to address the above challenges and allow the SMO/Non-RT RIC or Near-RT RIC to collect necessary and sufficient data for the operation and evaluation for interference detection, classification, locating and optimization.

### 6.2.3 Potential solution

#### 6.2.3.1 Slow loop solution

##### 6.2.3.1.1 Interference detection and optimization
The proposed solution for interference detection and optimization aims to address the above challenges by allowing the SMO/Non-RT RIC to collect interference-related data from a specific UE group only when the cell load is high. Regarding the target data, interference-related data (e.g., DL SS-SINR, UL CQI, UL MCS), along with throughput, should be available to detect high interference situations and their impact on throughput, and to optimize the interference for the specific UE group. To allow the SMO/Non-RT RIC to collect data only from target UEs, filter data should include identifiers such as a list of UE IDs and Slice IDs. Additionally, filter data should include PRB usage of a cell to filter out data in cases where the cell load is low, and interference optimization is not necessary. A more variety of filter data should be supported to optimize interference according to the situation. For example, reception power (e.g., DL SS-RSRP, UL SRS-RSRP) can be supported to focus on the interference of the cell-edge UEs with low reception power. Data volume can also be supported to focus on the performance of UEs that cause primary interference and suffer from it. This prevents unnecessary data collection in the SMO/Non-RT RIC, thereby reducing wasteful use of the bandwidth of the interface.

##### 6.2.3.1.2 Interference suppression evaluation
The target data and filter data used for interference suppression evaluation are almost the same as those required for detection and optimization. One difference is that, in evaluation, real-time data is not always necessary. In other words, there is a potential option for accumulating data in O-CU/O-DU and transferring it in bulk to the SMO/Non-RT RIC.

#### 6.2.3.2 Fast loop solution

##### 6.2.3.2.1 Interference detection and optimization
The potential solution is to address the above challenges in interference detection, classification and locating performed in Near- RT RIC by using filtering criteria on target data. The filtering criteria for target data generated from E2 nodes can be based on a combination of:
- per cell (e.g., UL/DL loading per cell, UL interference per cell, UL interference per PRB per cell)
- per sector
- per beam (e.g., UL interference per PRB per antenna branch per cell)
- per direction (e.g., target data is from the direction of multiple beams or target data with location information)
- per UE or per group of UEs
- per range (e.g., target data is from those UEs within a certain range of a cell)
- per pattern (e.g., uplink RSSIs pattern or uplink PRB interference pattern)
- per threshold level
where per cell, per sector, per UE or per group of UEs have been supported in E2SM-KPM [i.8]. xApps use processed target data from E2 nodes by applying filtering criteria. The target data generated from E2 nodes includes the following: 1) Network-level measurement reports, including a) UE-level information, e.g., CQI, SINR, MCS, UL/DL RSRP, SS-RSRP, throughput, DU/UL PRB usage, mMIMO beams, BSR, PHR, location, velocity and timing advance b) Cell-level information: e.g., DL/UL PRB usage, throughput, uplink interference including UL interference per cell, UL interference per PRB per cell, and UL interference per PRB per antenna branch per cell as specified in WG3 UCR use case 2) Received power measurements (i.e., received signal strength indicators [RSSIs]) from O-RU as specified in clause 21 in The xApps with the support of AI/ML analyse the target data that matches the filtering criteria to achieve the objectives. The objectives include:
- Detect cells, sectors, beams, UEs, or resources of cells that are under interference when their interference levels exceed
certain thresholds
- Classify types of interference source, e.g., the uplink interference types can be classified when the uplink interference
levels experienced on certain cell resources (e.g., received uplink RSSIs or uplink PRB) exceed certain thresholds and the uplink interference patterns match certain profiles
- Identify geographical location of interference source, e.g., the source of uplink interference can be located by leveraging
triangulation on the beams when the interference levels experienced on those beams exceed certain thresholds

### 6.2.4 Benefits of Filtered Measurements
The proposed solution for operation and evaluation for interference detection and optimization requires the SMO/Non-RT RIC to collect measurement data only from UEs that meet specific filtering conditions (e.g., identifiers, reception power) when another filtering condition (e.g., PRB usage of a cell) is met. This feature is assumed to be offered by Filtered Measurements, allowing SMO/Non-RT RIC to collect target data exclusively for specific entities and cases that satisfy the conditions defined by filter data. This enables optimization and evaluation focused on specific targets, using sufficient and necessary data while avoiding the collection of irrelevant data. Similarly, with Filtered Measurements, that offer more granular data suitable for the process of conducting interference detection, classification and locating in Near-RT RIC, the effectiveness for the process can be improved. In turn, the effectiveness of conducting interference optimization is improved.

## 6.3 Use case #3: QoE optimization

### 6.3.1 Background information
Highly demanding 5G native applications like cloud VR and connected vehicles are both bandwidth consuming and latency sensitive; however, they are today often handled in a best effort way with low or no application specific optimization. These traffic-intensive and highly interactive applications are not well served by current semi-static QoS framework which does not efficiently satisfy diversified QoE requirements. These requirements can vary during an application lifetime, especially taking into account potentially significant fluctuation in radio transmission capability and applications with dynamic performance requirements. Furthermore, an increased set of mobile applications with varying QoE demands will increasingly become unmanageable if semi-static profiles are “preloaded” into the relevant RAN nodes without a more automated closed-loop approach. It is expected that QoE estimation/prediction from application level can help deal with such uncertainty and improve the efficiency of radio resources, and eventually improve user experience and yield a more efficient use of RAN resources. Also, multi-dimensional data, e.g., user traffic data, QoE measurements, network measurement report, can be acquired and processed via ML algorithms to support traffic recognition, QoE prediction, QoS enforcement decisions.

### 6.3.2 Motivation
The main objective of QoE optimization use case [i.2] is to support QoE optimization within the O-RAN architecture and its open interfaces by enabling per-user, slice, or 5QI-based modification of RAN behavior, features, scheduling, and other configurations according to application requirements or other inputs. To achieve this, a QoE optimization approach utilizing the SMO, Non-RT RIC, and Near-RT RIC has been proposed. The SMO/Non-RT RIC collects O1 PM data to build and train relevant AI/ML models, while the Near-RT RIC optimizes QoE operations by leveraging policy inputs and E2SM-KPM data. However, unlike the Near-RT RIC, which gathers extensive per- UE information through the E2 interface, the SMO/Non-RT RIC has limited access to detailed data via O1 PM. This limitation could lead to biased evaluations, making it difficult to generate optimized policies. For example, when monitoring a group of UEs using a specific service within a cell, different QoE optimization actions may be required based on varying radio conditions and velocity, even among UEs running the same application. To achieve effective QoE optimization, it is essential to classify and monitor UEs based on these contextual differences. However, the available O1 PM data is insufficient to enable such granular classification. One possible solution is to utilize O1 trace data to collect more detailed information. However, capturing trace data for all UEs within the network would impose a significant processing burden, making it an impractical solution. Therefore, an alternative approach must be considered to enhance evaluation accuracy and effective policy decisions while optimizing network overhead. The objective of this use case is to enable the SMO/Non-RT RIC to collect sufficient data for accurate evaluation and policy generation while avoiding unnecessary data collection that may impose excessive processing overhead on the network by using Filtered Measurements.

### 6.3.3 Potential solution
The proposed QoE optimization solution aims to enhance evaluation accuracy by enabling the SMO/Non-RT RIC to utilize Filtered Measurements to collect QoE optimization-related data from a specific UE group. In the case of the Near-RT RIC, which is responsible for optimizing traffic steering operations, it is possible to collect finely segmented statistics using the predefined E2SM-KPM, so no further discussion is needed here. The measurements should be collected and aggregated using filter data such as cell, Slice ID, 5QI, etc., for the purpose of classifying patterns. The filter data may include RSRP, traffic volume, and velocity, and various conditions can be combined for more refined filtering. filter data can be added or modified according to the operator's objectives. For example, when managing QoE for UEs using the same VR service, it is not feasible to evaluate QoE by monitoring statistics solely based on a specific Slice ID or 5QI, since not all UEs experience the same radio conditions or mobility patterns. QoE can vary significantly depending on factors such as velocity and RSRP, and thus, operators must be able to distinguish and monitor different UE groups accordingly. Otherwise, statistical averaging may obscure the poor QoE experienced by UEs under specific conditions, such as low RSRP. To address this, operators can define RSRP and velocity as filter data to collect and monitor statistics per UE group. As shown in Table 6.3.3-1, UE groups can be segmented based on RSRP and velocity, and their QoE can be monitored by tracking target data such as latency, throughput, RLF ratio, iBLER, and PRB allocation. Additionally, if necessary, operators can reconfigure policies tailored to a specific UE group to enable QoE optimization. RSRP\Velocity High Low High UE Group A UE Group B Low UE Group C UE Group D UEGroup A UEGroup B UEGroup C UEGroup D

### 6.3.4 Benefits of Filtered Measurements
By using Filtered Measurements, the operator can apply situation-specific filter data to collect appropriate statistics and perform QoE optimization, optimizing network/UE performance. Additionally, by collecting only data that meets specific conditions instead of gathering data from all UEs, unnecessary data collection in SMO/Non-RT RIC can be prevented, and wasteful use of interface bandwidth can be minimized.

## 6.4 Use case #4: MU-MIMO optimization

### 6.4.1 Background information
MU-MIMO is one of the key technologies available for increasing UE and cell capacities using existing time/frequency resources. The use of multiple antennas enables the pointing of beams to multiple UEs with each beam spatially avoiding the interference from the other beams. However, in commercial deployments, some subscribers can be stationary, some can be moving at pedestrian speeds, and others at high speeds. Due to the high sensitivity of traditional MU-MIMO solutions to subscriber mobility, the capacity gains achieved with multiple antennas are limited. To address this limitation, new beamforming solutions are emerging that support MU-MIMO with less time sensitivity allowing them to be implemented in the Near-RT RIC. These solutions are applicable to both downlink and uplink data channels and to TDD as well as FDD and can provide high user and cell performance for subscribers moving within a wide range of speeds. Also, to verify the effectiveness of MU-MIMO, the Non-RT/Near-RT RIC could collect and monitor statistics such as RSRP, SINR, DL/UL throughput, and HARQ information from the O-DU via the O1/E2 interface, while training AI/ML models for optimization. In particular, the required data for MU-MIMO optimization operations is defined in [i.15]. It is also noteworthy that data such as “average DL UE throughput in gNB with associated non-GoB mMIMO mode” requires the introduction of new per-UE reporting mechanism that incorporates the associated non-GoB mMIMO mode index.

### 6.4.2 Motivation
The MU-MIMO optimization use case aims to enable new spatial multiplexing and precoding solutions that have the potential to increase both user and overall cell capacity in a massive MIMO deployment area. This is achieved by selecting appropriate users over time and frequency resources, and for each selection, recommending the applicable precoding coefficients and Modulation and Coding Schemes (MCS) for the most efficient resource usage. To monitor performance and optimize MU-MIMO, an operator could check cell throughput or UE throughput before and after MU-MIMO is applied. However, since these statistics are averaged across all UEs in the cell, it is difficult to clearly identify the gain attributable to MU-MIMO within the same cell. To address this, the Near-RT RIC could collect per-UE information related to MU-MIMO from E2 nodes. However, the measurements collected at the Near-RT RIC are not made accessible to the Non-RT RIC. Moreover, while the O1 Performance Assurance MnS is capable of selectively collecting measurements based on subcounters, it currently lacks sub-counters related to MU-MIMO. The main objective of this use case is to address the above challenges and allow the SMO/Non-RT RIC to collect the necessary and sufficient data for the evaluation and optimization of MU-MIMO.

### 6.4.3 Potential solution
The proposed solution for MU-MIMO optimization aims to address the above challenges by allowing SMO/Non-RT RIC to collect MU-MIMO-related data only from a MU-MIMO UE group. The measurements should be collected and aggregated using filter data, such as MIMO mode (SU/MU-MIMO) and scheduled MU-MIMO UEs, in order to classify MU-MIMO UE Group. To allow SMO/Non-RT RIC to collect data only from target UE groups, filter data could also include identifiers such as a list of Slice IDs. Target data could include cell performance or UE performance measurements such as PDCP DL/UL throughput, iBLER for the MU-MIMO UEs, MU-MIMO PRB utilization, and MU-MIMO spectral efficiency. Additionally, to monitor channel conditions, it is possible to collect target data such as CQI, RI, and uplink SINR of MU-MIMO UEs. The target data should be collected and consumed by the SMO/Non-RT RIC from the O-DU via the O1 interface through Performance Assurance MnS, similarly to how other traditional PMs are collected from the O-DU.

### 6.4.4 Benefits of Filtered Measurements
By using Filtered Measurements, the operator can apply situation-specific filter data to collect appropriate target data for monitoring and optimizing MU-MIMO schemes. Additionally, by collecting only data that meets specific conditions instead of gathering data from all UEs, unnecessary data collection in SMO/Non-RT RIC can be prevented, and wasteful use of interface bandwidth can be minimized. As a result, operators can benefit from being able to monitor and optimize the operation of MU- MIMO without distortion, while avoiding the collection of unnecessary data.

## 6.5 Use case #5: UE capability based measurements

### 6.5.1 Background information
In a network, there are different types of the UEs which have different UE capabilities.
- Some UEs are CA capable (FDD+TDD CA, TDD+TDD CA), while other low-end UEs do not support CA.
- Similarly, different UE capabilities are possible such as high Tx power UEs, DL/UL MIMO, UL CA, UL 256 QAM,
1T2R vs. 2T4R, etc. These UEs should be treated differently in scheduling, mobility, layer management, etc. to optimize their performance according to their RAN capabilities. Consider as an example: Layer management for CA vs. non-CA capable UEs (similarly for other UE capabilities like high Tx power as well) In this example, CA (FDD+TDD) UEs are moved to low-band FDD from mid-band earlier than non-CA UEs, to fully benefit from CA-enabled coverage extension (UL on FDD and DL on TDD). This helps the CA UEs to maintain their performance near the cell edge. Specifically, CA UEs are handed over from TDD band (3.5 GHz) to low-band FDD band (700 MHz) at higher RSRP values (not waiting till cell-edge), whereas non-CA UEs would continue further being on TDD until the cell edge. This can be achieved by setting the mobility RSRP thresholds (from TDD to FDD) differently for CA and non-CA UEs.

### 6.5.2 Motivation
Currently, the RSRP values in mobility thresholds (A1, A2, A3, A5, etc.) [i.17] are optimized by the network based on field trials of all the UEs. As a result, these thresholds also tend to be set to common values across all UEs. However, ideally, the gNB should have ability to set these mobility thresholds differently depending on UE capabilities and based on the user experiences measured by these UEs at different RSRP levels. non-CA UEs because they are greater in numbers. This causes CA capable UEs to hand over too late at the cell edge, even though there is another layer in which carrier aggregation can happen. This results in poor user experience for CA capable UEs. This use case tries to improve CA capable user experience at the cell edge by setting a different HO threshold so that CA capable UEs are handed over sooner compared to non-CA capable UEs. This use case also helps non-CA capable UEs to keep in the cell as far as possible. This use case can further enhance for other RRM related decisions based on the UE capability.

### 6.5.3 Potential solution
handover thresholds based on the UE capability. First, Non-RT RIC configures RAN NF with the following information:
- Target data: RSRP of serving cell, RSRP of neighboring cells, call drop, DL/UL throughput, etc.
- Filter data: UE capability (CA vs. non-CA UEs)
RAN NF periodically collects the RSRP values across different bands along with the corresponding user experience metrics (throughput, call quality, etc.) from only the filtered UEs that meets the target criteria, and feeds target data back to the Non-RT RIC for only those UEs which meet the filtering criteria set beforehand, in this case UE capability. Non-RT RIC calculates mobility thresholds of the UEs based on these received Filtered Measurements. The mobility thresholds are decided differently per UE capability (e.g., different thresholds for CA and non-CA UEs). Non-RT RIC indicates the corresponding mobility thresholds to RAN NF via policy provisions over O1 interface. Lastly, as per [i.17], the RAN NF may set different RSRP ranges for different MeasIDs, which consist of MeasObjectNR for setting the band configuration and ReportConfigNR for setting reporting conditions such as thresholds. Since the RSRP ranges for a2-Threshold, etc., are set to the corresponding UEs via RRC procedure, it is possible to set different RSRP ranges based on UE capabilities by applying different MeasIDs according to the bandCombinationList.

### 6.5.4 Benefits of Filtered Measurements
The proposed solution for setting different thresholds for layer and mobility management based on the UE capabilities will enhance user experience and manage different layers’ resources efficiently across all different UE capabilities. This is enabled by utilizing Filtered Measurements, i.e., measurement data filtered by UE capability. This use case can further be enhanced to set different mobility thresholds based on other UE capabilities, e.g., high-power UEs vs. low-power UEs. This use case enhances UE experience as well as uses the RAN resources efficiently.

# 7 Conclusion and recommendations
This technical report first examines the current state of measurement data filtering in O-RAN, identifies the limitations of the measurement data filtering, and then investigates the following potential enhancements to the O-RAN interface to support Filtered Measurements based on the identified requirements:
- Enhanced PM job via the O1 interface for O-CU/O-DU
- Enhanced trace job via the O1 interface for O-CU/O-DU
- Enhanced PM job via the O1 interface for Near-RT RIC exploiting E2SM-KPM
The use cases for Filtered Measurements are also analysed to validate the effectiveness of this feature and to identify requirements. It is recommended to continue the study in the impacted WGs prior to the normative work. In the subsequent study, solutions for the Filtered Measurements to meet the requirements captured in this TR should be analysed in more detail for the normative work.


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG1.TR.O-RES.0-R004-v01.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG1.TR.O-RES.0-R004-v01.00 O-RAN Work Group 1 (Use Cases and Overall Architecture)"
---

## 7.2 Solution 1: Enhanced network resiliency through standby O-DU and adaptive cell activation managed

## 7.3 Solution 2: Enhanced network resiliency through the standby O-CU-CP and service restoration

## 7.4 Solution 3: Enhanced network resiliency through O-RU rehoming, leveraging the SMO framework's

## 7.5 Solution 4: Enhanced network resiliency for NF Deployment(s) in O-Cloud managed by the SMO
List of figures List of tables Foreword This Technical Report (TR) has been produced by O-RAN ALLIANCE. The content of the present document is subject to continuing work within O-RAN and may change following formal O- RAN approval. Should the O-RAN ALLIANCE modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released by O-RAN with an identifying change of version date and an increase in version number as follows: version xx.yy.zz where: xx: the first digit-group is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc. (the initial approved document will have xx=01). Always 2 digits with leading zero if needed. yy: the second digit-group is incremented when editorial only changes have been incorporated in the document. Always 2 digits with leading zero if needed. zz: the third digit-group included only in working versions of the document indicating incremental changes during the editing process. External versions never include the third digit-group. Always 2 digits with leading zero if needed. Modal verbs terminology In the present document "shall", "shall not", "should", "should not", "may", "need not", "will", "will not", "can" and "cannot" are to be interpreted as described in clause 3.2 of the O-RAN Drafting Rules (Verbal forms for the expression of provisions). "must" and "must not" are NOT allowed in O-RAN deliverables except when used in direct citation. Executive summary O-RAN supports multi-vendor deployments where failures can occur at nodes (e.g., O-RAN Network Functions, interfaces, transport, and the O-Cloud). Solution providers typically manage recovery within their scope, making it crucial to standardize O-RAN resiliency features to ensure effective use of each provider's designs. This leads to a robust end- to-end resiliency solution covering Fronthaul, RAN OAM, Network Functions, and O-Cloud infrastructure. Standardization also enables Service Management Orchestration to manage O-RAN components through interoperable interfaces, facilitating automated recovery from various scenarios. Resiliency feature development should address various failure scenarios (e.g., node, interface, transport), back-up and recovery mechanisms, service criticality, different deployments (PNF and Cloud-based), resiliency controller responsibilities, and UE aspects. This holistic approach ensures a robust, adaptable resiliency feature capable of maintaining network integrity and service continuity across diverse operational challenges.

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms apply: Resiliency: Resiliency in O-RAN refers to the ability of the SMO to manage and maintain service continuity and quickly recover from failures through robust mechanisms like redundancy, fault management, and automated recovery procedures, ensuring uninterrupted service delivery within the O-RAN architecture even under adverse conditions. Multi-Domain Recovery Service (MDRS): A service that queries RAN NF OAM and TE&IV services within SMO framework for data on topology, alarms, and load conditions followed by identifying or generating optimal AP(s) and sending AP details to relevant network domains. Alternative Path (AP): A path that traverses across multiple network domains, including O-Cloud, O-RAN node, transport, and interfaces, while maintaining the original path endpoints. Alternative Path generation Function (APGF): A function that identifies existing alternative paths (AP) and generates new AP information that can be utilized, assigns weights to each identified existing AP and new AP information, and selects an AP based on assigned weights. Network Segmentation Function (NSF): A function that divides the network into network segments based on (bandwidth, latency, etc) and generates low-level information query for the relevant network segments to network topology, thus, allows an efficient retrieval of detailed network information for specific segments of the network.

## 3.2 Symbols
Void

## 3.3 Abbreviations
3GPP Third Generation Partnership Project 5GC 5G Core AAL Acceleration Abstraction Layer AI/ML Artificial Intelligence/Machine Learning ALD Antenna Line Device AMF Access and Mobility management Function AP Alternate Paths APGF Alternate Path Generation Function API Application Programming Interface CM Configuration Management CNF Cloudified Network Function CPU Central Processing Unit DHCP Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol DMS Deployment Management Services F1AP F1 Application Protocol FCAPS Fault, Configuration, Accounting, Performance, and Security FM Fault Management FOCOM Federated O-Cloud Management and Orchestration gNB gNodeB (Next Generation Node B applies to NR) GPU Graphics Processing Unit GTP-U GPRS Tunneling Protocol User Plane HDLC High-level Data Link Control IMS Infrastructure Management Services IP Internet Protocol IPFRR IP Fast Reroute K8S Kubernetes LBM Loop Back Message LCM Life Cycle Management LTE Long Term Evolution MA-PDU Multi-Access Protocol Data Unit MnF Management Function MNO Mobile Network Operator MnS Management Service MP M-Plane MRDC Multi-Radio Dual Connectivity NCI NR Cell Identity NE Network Element Near-RT RIC Near real time RAN Intelligent Controller NF Network Function NFO Network Function Orchestration NGAP Next Generation Application Protocol NG-C NG Control Plane NG-U NG User Plane NG-RAN Next Generation Radio Access Network NIC Network Interface Card Non-RT RIC Non-real time RAN Intelligent Controller NR 5G New Radio NRCGI NR Cell Global Identifier OAM Operation and Administration and Maintenance O-Cloud O-RAN Cloud O-CU-CP O-RAN Central Unit: Control Plane O-CU-UP O-RAN Central Unit: User Plane O-DU O-RAN Distributed Unit O-eNB O-RAN evolved Node B (applies to LTE) OFH Open Fronthaul O-RU O-RAN Radio Unit PM Performance Management QoS Quality of Service RACH Random Access Channel RAN Radio Access Network SCTP Stream Control Transmission Protocol SDO Standard Development Organization SMO Service Management and Orchestration TE&IV Topology Exposure and Inventory Management TNL Transport Network Layer TNLA Transport Network Layer Adaptation TNM Transport Network (TN) Manager X2-C X2 Control Plane Xn-C Xn Control Plane Xn-U Xn User Plane UDP User Datagram Protocol UE User Equipment UPF User Plane Function VNF Virtualized Network Functions WG Working Group

# 4 Objectives and requirements

## 4.1 Objectives
O-RAN supports multi-vendor deployments where failures can occur at various levels. This document captures the WG1 Resiliency study outcomes, outlining use cases where the SMO monitors criteria and triggers actions to reconfigure system components, minimizing the impact of component failures on service availability. It can also consider the scenarios with both single and multiple component failures, ensuring effective utilization of diverse designs from various solution providers. This leads to a robust end-to-end resiliency solution covering Fronthaul, RAN OAM, Network Functions, and O-Cloud infrastructure.

### 4.1.1 Detailed Objectives
- Identify Gaps and Develop Recovery Mechanisms
o Address gaps in recovery from network failures by enhancing service resiliency with robust mechanisms, ensuring quick recovery from outages and minimizing service interruptions.
- Consolidate Efforts Across Working Groups
o Unify ongoing efforts from WG1, WG4, WG6, WG9, and WG11 to provide a holistic view of end-to- network redundancy.
- Investigate Current State and Identify Gaps
o Examine current resiliency features, identify gaps in existing specifications, and produce a Technical Report on detailed requirements.
- Collaborate with Other Working Groups
o Work with WG6 and WG10 to integrate resiliency requirements, ensuring O-RAN specifications cover common failures for end-to-end resiliency.
- Define Normative Specifications and Solutions
o Gather use cases and potential solutions that would help deriving requirements for normative specifications to enhance O-RAN resiliency, focusing on redundancy mechanisms, fault detection, isolation techniques, and efficient failover mechanisms.

# 5 Resiliency Architecture
This clause covers general resiliency architecture, principle, policies, flows, outline, and heuristics for handling resiliency.

## 5.1 Resiliency Concepts
It describes the fundamental principles, strategies, and mechanisms designed to ensure system reliability and continuous service availability, despite failures or adverse conditions.
- Redundant architectures: Implementing redundant paths and components to provide alternative routes or
backups in case of failure.
- Fault detection and recovery: Using mechanisms for detecting faults and quickly recovering from failures to
minimize downtime.
- Load balancing and failover: Distributing traffic and workloads across multiple nodes in NR Cells and optionally
LTE cells prevent overloading any single component, enhancing resiliency by ensuring smooth failover and continuous service availability when failures occur.
- Proactive measures: Employing predictive analytics and monitoring tools to identify potential issues before
they cause service interruptions.

## 5.2 Resiliency Overview
It provides a high-level summary or holistic view of how these resiliency concepts are implemented and managed within a specific network or system. It typically includes:
- Network architecture and design: An overview of the network's architectural layout, focusing on use cases that
allow effective utilization of redundant network elements, such as employing backup paths, redundant systems, and failover protocols without specifying internal designs of network elements.
- Operational scenarios and use cases: Descriptions of various failure scenarios and the corresponding recovery
processes. This may include specific examples like O-DU failures and the role of SMO in managing failover.
- Management and control mechanisms: This clause outlines the control mechanism, emphasizing the role of the
SMO in handling different types of failures. For example, managing the flow of carrier and cell switching, particularly at the O-DU level.
- Implementation strategies: Strategies for deploying and managing resiliency features, including details on
interfaces, models, and configurations used to achieve resiliency in different parts of the network from an O- RAN perspective.
- Performance metrics and monitoring: An overview of how performance is monitored and assessed to ensure
resiliency, including the metrics used to gauge network health and the tools employed for continuous monitoring and fault detection.
- Creation and management of resiliency related policies by SMO.

## 5.3 Resiliency development in O-RAN
O-RAN Release 004 specifications do not provide sufficient coverage for end-to-end resiliency. However, there are several resiliency scenarios and use cases described, along with detailed analysis of O-DU level resiliency as part of the shared O-RU Work Item [i.1] and by WG9 from a transport perspective [i.26 and i.27]. However, these do not adequately explain how the SMO framework manages the cross-domain considerations, particularly those related to O-Cloud and transport. Furthermore, the specifications do not cover critical aspects such as interface failures, O-CU-CP failures, and O-Cloud NF Deployment failures, as well as how the role of SMO framework in effectively managing these various aspects of transport, O-Cloud, and NF/interface failures to ensure comprehensive end-to-end resiliency and minimize service interruption during various failure scenarios. Therefore, this technical report aims to address these gaps by examining resiliency scenarios, including NF and interface failures across various deployments. It also investigates cross- domain coordination involving transport, O-Cloud, and other relevant factors, as well as how the SMO framework effectively manages these challenges.

## 5.4 Resiliency for NF failures

### 5.4.1 Overview
Resiliency for NF failures ensure service availability with minimal disruption by leveraging static or dynamic failover, session recovery, and robust redundancy mechanisms. An appropriate recovery mechanism can be employed for the critical interfaces like O1, Fronthaul, E2, and F1-C to ensure service with minimum disruption during link failures. For example, SCTP based transport redundancy for F1-C [i.4] and cloud-native deployments [i.5 and i.6] can leverage the various resiliency capabilities (e.g., Kubernetes based) to ensure high availability and implement failover mechanisms for NF, thereby enhancing the overall resiliency of the O-RAN Network. Multi-layered resiliency spans both physical and virtual components, supporting high-priority services with active-standby setups and an appropriate recovery action. This approach integrates cross-domain fault detection and configuration to support efficient service transitions and minimize service disruptions. Protocols including for example TNL [i.3 and i.4], and additional appropriate recovery mechanisms, can be utilized to ensure that O-RAN networks meet robust resiliency objectives, and can be recovered from the diverse failure scenarios while maintaining service quality.

### 5.4.2 O-RU failure
This clause describes the impact of the O-RU to service availability, however O-RU itself is not an actor in resiliency scenarios. This refers to a functional or hardware failure within the O-RU, one of the key components in the RAN infrastructure that facilitates signal transmission and reception between the user equipment and the network component, specifically the O- DU. Failures in the O-RU can affect the connected users and associated applications. The O-DU can detect the O-RU failures using FM data such as alarms, CM notifications, and PM data reported by the O-RU through the open fronthaul M-plane interface [i.7]. In hybrid deployment, the SMO can also subscribe to O-RU alarms via open fronthaul M-plane interface as O-RU controller [i.7]. In hierarchical deployment, the O-DU can either independently act or forward failure- related information to the SMO via the O1 interface [i.8], enabling the SMO to take appropriate actions to recover the O- RU.

#### 5.4.2.1 Impacts of O-RU failure
An O-RU failure can affect the operation of carrier(s), potentially affect cell availability and resulting in service degradation, such as reduced throughput. This failure affects the data flow between the affected cell of network and end- users, potentially leading to interruptions in data transmission, reduced throughput, and a decrease in overall network capacity. The impact of the failure can extend to multiple users, causing widespread connectivity loss, and degraded service quality.

#### 5.4.2.2 O-RU recovery
O-RU recovery’s goal is to make resources needed for air interface handling available again. Restoration involves identifying the failure, executing recovery mechanisms like resetting the O-RU (if the fronthaul M-plane is still operational) and performing O-RU start-up procedure [i.7]. This process is crucial for reducing service downtime and restoring normal operations across affected sectors of the cells.

### 5.4.3 O-DU failure
The O-DU comprises the NF (hardware and/or software), MnF (hardware and/or software), and the associated hardware, such as cloud infrastructure for CNF deployment or dedicated physical hardware for PNF deployment [i.9]. Failures can occur in the NF and/or MnF and/or the hardware itself, such as due to a power outage, fiber cut, or equipment removal, leading to the complete inoperability of the O-DU.
- MnF failure: The SMO can identify O-DU MnF failure by analyzing PM data from by the O-CU via O1 interface
be able to configure the O-DU via the F1 interface and knows about the resource status. When both the F1 connection between the O-CU and O-DU, and the O1 interface between the SMO and O-CU, are functional, the SMO can collect and correlate the PM metrics [i.10] received from the O-CU via the O1 interface with the O1 connection status to the O-DU. This helps determine if the MnF of the O-DU, or its connection, has failed, as the SMO detects that traffic is ongoing but cannot reach the O-DU through the O1 interface.
- NF failure: If the NF fails and the O1 interface with the O-DU is still operational, the SMO can detect the failure
directly through this interface. It can also identify the issue via performance management data from the O-CU, as the failure of the F1 interface and fault management (FM) data should also indicate the failure of the NF.
- Complete O-DU failure: When both the MnF and NF [i.9] of the O-DU fail, the SMO can correlate the PM data
from the O-CU with the O1 connection status, along with transport management data and PM data received via O2 interface in case of CNF deployment, to determine that the entire O-DU has failed. The PM data will show F1 failure due to the NF failure, and by correlating this with the O1 connection status, the SMO can conclude that the entire O-DU is inoperable.

#### 5.4.3.1 Impacts of O-DU failure
O-DU plays a critical role in the RAN architecture, its failure leads to several specific impacts, which are outlined below:
- Loss of connectivity to O-RU and UE communication
o Fronthaul disruption: The O-DU interfaces with the O-RU over the open fronthaul. If the O-DU fails, it results in the loss of connectivity between the O-RU and the O-DU. o UE session impact: All active sessions for connected UEs will be interrupted. If the O-DU fails completely, the UEs connected to that O-DU will experience a disruption or outage in service path, requiring them to reconnect to the network once the O-DU is restored or a backup system takes over.
- Degradation in network performance and capacity
o Cell outage: The O-DU failure can take down all the cells connected to it, effectively causing a localized network outage in the affected area. This leads to reduced network coverage and capacity, especially in regions where other O-DUs are not available to pick up the load. o Network congestion: If there are neighbouring O-DUs, the failure of one O-DU could lead to an overload on neighbouring units as UEs attempt to reconnect to other cells. This can result in degraded performance across the board.
- Failure of critical control and management functions
o Impact on RAN control loops: The O-DU plays a crucial role in real-time control of radio resource management and scheduling. A failure here disrupts the flow of near real-time data and the execution of RAN control loops, impacting network optimizations, such as load balancing and interference management, carried out by the Near-RT RIC. o Fault management data loss: If the O-DU fails without an effective backup, any fault or performance management data that it was responsible for transmitting will be lost. This makes it harder for the SMO to diagnose the root cause and take corrective actions.
- Reduced redundancy and resiliency
o Backup and recovery challenges: Depending on the network’s redundancy mechanisms, an O-DU failure might also expose gaps in resiliency. For instance, if there is no backup O-DU or if the backup O-DU fails to take over the operations in time, service restoration could be delayed. o Impact on Shared O-RU deployments: In shared O-RU deployments, if one O-DU fails, the shared O- RU might still be operational but can only serve the remaining functional O-DUs. This scenario can lead to partial service loss or degraded performance in certain areas.
- Reconfiguration and failover delays
o The time required to restore services after an O-DU failure largely depends on the architecture and resiliency strategies implemented, which include how services are recovered with the help of standby O-DUs. In cases where manual intervention is needed to restore the service or reconfigure the network elements, the recovery time would increase further, potentially reducing the network availability and affecting customer experience. o In conclusion, an O-DU failure triggers a wide range of impacts, including loss of communication, service degradation, compromised control mechanisms, and reduced resiliency, depending on the network architecture and failover mechanisms in place.

#### 5.4.3.2 Cell service restoration
Cell service restoration after an O-DU failure involves re-establishing connectivity between the impacted O-RU, O-DU, O-CU, and ultimately the core network. This process includes activating backup O-DU, reactivating the affected cells, and utilizing resiliency mechanisms like active-standby configurations. It is desired for the cell restoration time to be as shortest as possible. The measures, such as recovery initiated by the SMO, can significantly minimize downtime and reduce service disruptions in the affected area.

### 5.4.4 O-CU-CP failure

#### 5.4.4.1 Overview
A failure in the O-CU-CP of a O-RAN network can severely disrupt cell service by interrupting critical signalling between UE and the core network, leading to issues like failed call setups, handovers, and session management. This disruption can also cause subsequent mass signalling storms if UE session restoration is not supported by the O-CU-CP. Furthermore, the O-CU-CP loses connectivity with the SMO through the O1 interface, resulting in the loss of configurations from the SMO and the inability of the SMO to receive OAM data (CM, FM, and PM) from the O-CU-CP via the O1 interface [i.8]. Restoration processes for gNB, cell services, and user sessions are crucial to re-establish functionality, minimize disruptions, and ensure service continuity. The following outlines various aspects to consider in the event of an O-CU- CP failure.

#### 5.4.4.2 Impacts of O-CU-CP failure
The key impacts are described below.
- Loss of UE sessions in gNB across many cells, as one O-CU-CP can serve many cells and O-DUs.
- Mass RACH from many UEs that lost connectivity to cells served by O-CU-CP and O-DUs with related mass
NGAP signalling leading to signalling storm.

#### 5.4.4.3 Cell services restoration
Restoring cell services in the O-RAN network involves re-establishing connectivity and functionality following a disruption or failure. This process is essential to minimize downtime and ensure the user’s experience of uninterrupted access to network services. Restoration efforts focus on both the Control Plane (O-CU-CP) and User Plane (O-CU-UP) components, addressing challenges such as stale UE contexts, missed signalling messages, and disrupted data flows. By efficiently restoring cell services, the network can quickly return to optimal performance, ensuring reliable communication and data services for users.

### 5.4.5 O-CU-UP failure

#### 5.4.5.1 Impacts of O-CU-UP failure
An O-CU-UP failure in a 5G O-RAN network can disrupt the transmission of user data between the UE and the core network, leading to affected data sessions, reduced service quality, and potential data loss. Additionally, O-CU-UP can’t communicate with the SMO via the O1 interface.

## 5.5 Resiliency for interface failures

### 5.5.1 Overview
Resiliency for interface failures focuses on maintaining efficient network operations with minimal disruption, even in the event of physical or virtual interface issues in 5G systems. Key strategies include NIC card failures through physical and/or virtual NIC failovers, implementing dynamic IP routing with SCTP multihoming, and utilizing TNLA [i.2] to enhance control plane reliability. These methods leverage heartbeat mechanisms and multiple transport addresses to facilitate rapid failover and recovery. By adhering to 3GPP standards (e.g., TS 23.501 [i.2], TS 29.244 [i.16]), these approaches ensure service continuity and effectively minimize disruptions during failures.

### 5.5.2 Generic aspects
Resiliency for interface failures aims to ensure seamless network operations with minimum disruption, even when physical or virtual network interfaces experience issues. This requires deploying robust mechanisms to maintain service availability and reduce downtime. Strategies for ensuring interface resiliency in 5G RAN systems focus on redundancy and load balancing, for e.g., utilizing Linux bonding for physical NICs and failover-capable virtual NICs in virtual environments. IP-level routing resilience is achieved through multiple IP addresses, SCTP multihoming, and dynamic protocols such as IP Fast Reroute. Control plane protocol stability is reinforced through TNLA, incorporating features like multiple transport addresses and heartbeat mechanisms. These reliability measures, outlined by 3GPP (for e.g., TS 23.501 [i.2] and TS 23.502 [i.3]) enable quick recovery from failures while minimizing service disruptions.

#### 5.5.2.1 NIC failure - hardware or virtual interface failure
NIC failures can occur in both physical and virtualized environments due to hardware malfunction, driver issues, or connectivity disruptions. These failures result in the inability of the system to send or receive network traffic, potentially leading to service interruptions and degraded performance. NIC failure mitigation ensures uninterrupted network connectivity in the event of hardware or virtual interface failures. For physical NICs, solutions such as Linux bonding aggregate multiple NICs into a single logical interface, providing redundancy and load balancing. In the event of a failure, traffic is automatically redirected to functioning NICs, with configurations like active-standby for failover or load balancing for enhanced throughput. In virtualized environments, failover-capable virtual NICs provide redundancy by switching traffic to backup NICs during a failure. The configurations such as NIC teaming, further ensure smooth failover and high availability. Together, these strategies are to improve the stability and reduce service disruption caused by NIC failures.

#### 5.5.2.2 IP level routing failure
IP level routing failures occur when the primary network path becomes unavailable due to issues such as link disruption, node failure, or routing misconfigurations. These failures can lead to packet loss, increased latency, or total service interruptions, affecting critical network operations. By leveraging multiple IP addresses, SCTP multihoming, dynamic routing protocols, and IPFRR, networks can achieve enhanced resilience against routing failures. These strategies ensure quick recovery, maintain traffic flow, and reduce service disruptions, improving overall reliability and user experience.

#### 5.5.2.3 SCTP connection failure
SCTP connection failures can occur when the communication path between two endpoints is disrupted. This can result from physical link issues, routing failures, or misconfigurations. Such failures impact data transfer, control signalling, and application performance. SCTP, however, provides mechanisms like multihoming and retransmission strategies to recover from such failures [i.4]. Application protocol stability is enhanced through mechanisms like 3GPP TNLA, heartbeat monitoring, and redundant associations [i.4]. TNLA enables multihoming by supporting multiple transport addresses, allowing traffic to reroute through alternate paths if the primary path fails. Heartbeat mechanisms actively monitor path availability by exchanging regular signals between endpoints to detect and handle failures quickly. Redundant SCTP associations provide parallel connectivity and load balancing, ensuring uninterrupted data flow even during disruptions. These solutions collectively improve fault tolerance, enable fast recovery, and minimize service disruption, ensuring reliable traffic flow and high availability in 5G networks.

### 5.5.3 Control plane interface failures

#### 5.5.3.1 Overview
Control plane interface failures occur when critical signalling interfaces like fronthaul C-Plane, F1-C, E1, X2-C, Xn-C, and Ng-C interface got affected, impacting communication and coordination between network functions such as O-CU, O-DU, O-RU, and AMF. These failures can disrupt UE session control, mobility, and bearer management, potentially affecting UE services. Resiliency can be maintained through redundant transport links [i.4 and i.11], various recovery mechanisms, and cloud-based backups, ensuring rapid failover and robust control-plane operations with minimal service impact.

#### 5.5.3.2 F1-C interface failure
The F1-C interface links the O-CU-CP and O-DU, managing control-plane signalling for user and control data flows. Failures, including SCTP link issues, O-DU restarts, or F1AP application and protocol stack interruptions, can disrupt signalling and necessitate F1 Setup procedure. SMO could detect F1-C interface failures through O1 interface and react by triggering appropriate actions. Resiliency can be achieved through methods like SCTP multi-homing for physical transport redundancy [i.4]. Additionally, application-level failover can be implemented using multiple TNL associations, allowing switch to a secondary F1AP application if the primary connection fails [i.4 and i.11].

#### 5.5.3.3 E1 interface failure
The E1 interface links the O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP, handling signalling for split bearer control and user-plane state management. Failures, such as SCTP link loss, node restarts, or protocol stack issues, can affect the service bearers. SMO could detect E1 interface failure using alarm raised by O-CU and react by triggering appropriate actions. Resiliency is ensured through various approaches such as redundant SCTP endpoints for physical transport redundancy using multiple TNL associations.

#### 5.5.3.4 X2-C interface failure
The X2-C interface connects O-CU-CP and O-eNB [i.17], enabling inter-RAT signalling. Failures can affect handover operations, hence UE mobility. For NSA, failure on X2-C interface can further cause the UEs losing connection completely with the NR cells and falling back to single connection with the O-eNB. SMO could detect X2-C interface failures through O1 interface and react by triggering appropriate actions. Resiliency can be achieved through methods such as SCTP multi-homing for physical transport redundancy, the application-level failover can be implemented using multiple TNL associations, allowing failover to a redundant X2-C links if the primary connection fails [i.19, i.15, i.18, and i.2].

#### 5.5.3.5 Xn-C interface failure
The Xn-C interface, as defined in [i.20], serves as a critical control plane interface between NG-RAN nodes, such as gNBs. It enables coordination between nodes for functions such as mobility management (e.g., handover), dynamic resource allocation, and load balancing. An Xn-C interface failure arises when control signalling between connected NG- RAN nodes is disrupted, which can be caused by transport or link losses, software or hardware malfunctions. SMO could detect above Xn-C interface failures through O1 interface and react by triggering appropriate actions. The Xn-C interface can utilize protocols such as SCTP for reliable signalling and communication between these nodes An Xn-C interface failure disrupts coordination between NG-RAN nodes, leading to widespread implications across the RAN system, cell services, and user sessions:
- RAN system: Loss of coordination hinders mobility management, distributed SON, energy savings, dual
connectivity, and dynamic resource allocation, causing handover failures and uneven resource utilization with some cells experiencing congestion while others remain underused.
- Cell service: Service continuity is interrupted due to failed handovers, resulting in dropped calls, loss of
throughput (due to dual connectivity failures), and degraded Quality of Service, especially in interference-prone edge scenarios.
- User sessions: User sessions may drop during mobility events, and isolated gNB operation can lead to lower
throughput, higher latency, and inconsistent service quality.

#### 5.5.3.6 NG-C interface failure
The NG-C interface is the control plane interface between the O-CU-CP and the AMF in the 5GC [i.21, i.15, i.18, and allocation. NG-C uses the NGAP for its functionality. NG-C interface failure disrupts mobility management, resource allocation, and signalling, causing handover failures, service disruptions, and load imbalance. Users face dropped sessions, increased latency, and poor connectivity, significantly degrading the overall experience. SMO could detect NG-C interface failures through O1 interface and react by triggering appropriate actions.

#### 5.5.3.7 E2 interface failure
The E2 interface connects the Near-RT RIC and E2 node such as O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, and O-DU. An E2 interface failure occurs when communication between the Near-RT RIC and any E2 Node is disrupted. This could be caused by transport link failures/issues, software malfunctions, or configuration error. While the specifics of such disruptions are not covered in detail within this technical report, detection mechanisms are in place on both the Near-RT RIC and E2 nodes. When detected, these entities can notify the SMO system through the O1 interface. Even if either the E2 Node or the Near-RT RIC encounters a failure, the E2 Node retains the capability to provide fundamental services [i.12]. However, certain enhanced services may be temporarily unavailable due to their reliance on the Near-RT RIC. Examples of impacted services include:
- Non-delivery of dynamic and static policies.
- Loss of monitoring and control functions for certain optimization features.
- Disruption in enforcement loops for policy execution.
The E2 interface design is to ensure that network priorities like service availability and performance stability remain largely intact, despite E2 interface disruptions. To support resiliency and prevent service outages (though with potential performance degradation due to unavailable xApp algorithms), further mechanisms can be employed for robust fault management and operational continuity.

#### 5.5.3.8 Fronthaul C Plane Interface Failure
Fronthaul control plane failures can be detected through the O-RU’s C/U-Plane connectivity monitoring, which triggers the “C/U-plane logical connection faulty” alarm, or via the O-DU’s verification of C/U-Plane transport connectivity using Loop-back Protocol (IEEE 802.1Q) as outlined in [i.7]. These failures can also arise due to hardware issues in the O- DU/O-RU or system shutdowns. The key impacts are described below. A fronthaul control plane failure refers to the disruption in signalling communication between the O-DU and O-RU over the Control Plane in the O-RAN Fronthaul interface, which is critical for transmitting real-time control information [i.13]. This failure can lead to severe impacts on RAN networks, particularly in the Fronthaul perspective, including service degradation due to loss of scheduling, and an inability to update configurations dynamically.

#### 5.5.3.9 A1 interface failure
The A1 interface is a crucial component of the O-RAN architecture, facilitating communication between the Non-RT RIC and the Near-RT RIC [i.14].

##### 5.5.3.9.1 Impact of A1 interface failure
The impact of A1 interface failures on O-RAN networks can be significant, affecting various aspects of network performance and service delivery:
- Policy management: The inability to create, update, or delete policies can lead to suboptimal RAN performance,
missed Service Level Agreement (SLA) targets, and inefficient resource utilization.
- Enrichment information: Loss of access to critical enrichment data (e.g., traffic patterns, radio fingerprints)
degrades the Near-RT RIC's decision-making capabilities, adversely affecting traffic steering and resource management.
- Feedback loop: Disruption in feedback transmission prevents the non-RT RIC from assessing policy
enforcement success, hindering effective policy fine-tuning.

### 5.5.4 User Plane interface failures

#### 5.5.4.1 Overview
User plane interface failures occur when critical data-carrying interfaces like Fronthaul U-Plane, F1-U, X2-U, Xn-U, and NG-U experience disruptions, impacting the transport of traffic between network elements such as O-RU, O-DU, O-CU- UP, and UPF. These failures can result in service interruptions, degraded Quality of Service (QoS), and loss of user plane session for User Equipment (UE). Resiliency is achieved through mechanisms such as dual connectivity (two O-CU-UP per UE), multi access PDU sessions (multiple UPFs per PDU session) as described in 3GPP 23.501, and session state recovery via cloud-native architectures. Fault detection and self-healing processes further ensure user-plane operations with minimal service impact.

#### 5.5.4.2 F1-U interface failure
The F1-U interface connects the O-CU-UP and O-DU, facilitating the transfer of user-plane data packets between these network functions in the NG-RAN architecture. Operating over GTP-U, this interface ensures efficient and low-latency data forwarding for active sessions. Failures on the F1-U interface, such as GTP-U session interruptions, O-DU reboots, or transport link failures, can cause connection loss, service degradation, or session termination. SMO could detect F1-U interface failures through O1 interface and react by triggering appropriate actions. Resiliency can be achieved through mechanisms like path redundancy (transport related) using multiple GTP-U tunnels (i.e., dual-connectivity) as defined in [i.15 and i.22]. Additionally, load balancing across redundant paths and intelligent failover procedures ensure continuous data flow, minimizing the impact of transport layer disruptions.

#### 5.5.4.3 NG-U interface failure
The NG-U interface is the user-plane interface between the O-CU-UP and the UPF in the 5G Core Network. This interface is responsible for forwarding data packets, enabling efficient data delivery for active sessions. NG-U operates using GTP- U transport protocol [i.23], ensuring the transport of uplink and downlink data through reliable tunnelling. Failures on the NG-U interface, such as GTP-U tunnel breaks or transport network disruptions, can lead to user plane session disruption, impacting end-user experiences. SMO could detect the NG-U interface failures through O1 interface based on the alarms raised by O-CU-UP and react by triggering appropriate actions. Resiliency can be ensured by employing existing mechanisms like redundant GTP-U tunnels (i.e., MA-PDU sessions) as described in [i.2, i.15, i.18, and i.21]. Fault monitoring, proactive recovery, and load balancing further enhance the reliability and robustness of the NG-U interface, ensuring data delivery with minimum disruption in 5G networks.

#### 5.5.4.4 X2-U interface failure
The X2-U interface connects the O-CU-UP and the O-eNB, facilitating user-plane data transfer in inter-RAT scenarios, such as LTE to NR handovers or dual connectivity deployments. It operates using GTP-U [i.24], ensuring transport of traffic with minimum disruption during active sessions. Failures on the X2-U interface, such as GTP-U tunnel disruptions or transport link issues, can lead to packet loss, service interruptions, and degraded user experience. SMO could detect X2-U interface failures through O1 interface based on the alarms raised by O-CU-UP and react by triggering appropriate actions. Fault detection and session management can be employed to ensure minimal impact on user experience and uninterrupted data transport during mobility scenarios.

#### 5.5.4.5 Xn-U interface failure
The Xn-U interface, as defined in [i.15 and i.25], supports user-plane data transport between NG-RAN nodes like gNBs during inter-gNB mobility events. Using GTP-U, it ensures efficient, low-latency data forwarding for handovers with minimum disruption. Failures, such as GTP-U tunnel disruptions or transport issues, can cause mobility interruptions, degraded QoS, and dropped user sessions. SMO could detect Xn-U interface failures through O1 interface based on alarms raised by O-CU and react by triggering appropriate actions. Resiliency can be achieved through redundant tunnels (i.e., MRDC) [i.2, i.15, i.18, and i.20], failover mechanisms, and robust monitoring and recovery processes, ensuring data delivery with minimum disruption and maintaining optimal mobility performance.

#### 5.5.4.6 Fronthaul U plane interface failure
Fronthaul U plane interface failures disrupt IQ data transfer between the O-DU and O-RU [i.13], affecting user-plane services and degrading network performance. These failures arise from transport link disruptions or hardware malfunctions, leading to service interruptions, dropped user sessions, and increased latency. Detection mechanisms include reception window monitoring, Loop-Back Messages (LBM), and UDP Echo for transport verification. WG4 is expected to investigate the resiliency measures, such as redundant links, and dynamic buffering, ensuring recovery and minimum service disruption. These mechanisms are critical for maintaining robust and reliable network operations.

### 5.5.5 Management plane interface failures
Management interfaces like O1, O2, and the fronthaul M-plane can experience failures or degradation due to various factors, which are beyond the scope of this TR. These issues can be detected by the MnF of MnS Producers, such as O- CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU, O-RU, Near-RT RIC, and O-Cloud, as well as by the MnS Consumer (SMO) for their respective management interfaces using appropriate detection mechanisms. The following clauses describe how each interface failure can be identified and the associated impact.

#### 5.5.5.1 O1 interface failure
O1 interface failure refers to the disruption or malfunction of the O1 interface within the O-RAN architecture. This interface plays a critical role in facilitating communication between the SMO framework and the O-RAN NFs, such as O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP and O-DU and managed elements like near RT-RIC, as specified in [i.9]. The detection of an O1 interface failure can be achieved through mechanisms like heartbeat management, as specified in [i.8]. The detecting and recovering from an O1 interface failure could involve several considerations, including how the NF handles FCAPS reporting during the disruption. For example, if the O1 interface fails during a PM data reporting period, the NF can store the collected metrics and report them once the O1 interface is restored. In the event of failure, the SMO can initiate reconfiguration steps for the affected entities such as O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, or O-DU. This process involves the MnS Consumers within the SMO framework and MnS Producers within the O-RAN Network Function, ensuring that the network elements are reconfigured and restored to operational status. The SMO framework plays a crucial role in this recovery process by orchestrating the necessary actions to maintain the service with minimum disruptions and robustness across the O-RAN network, thereby ensuring that the network functions are ready for service post-recovery.

#### 5.5.5.2 O2 interface failure
In an O-RAN deployment, an O2 interface is used to enable the SMO as a consumer, managing both cloud infrastructure and cloud deployments [i.6]. A failure in the O2 interface between the SMO and O-Cloud disrupts resource management, orchestration, and applications within the O-Cloud. Such failures can be identified using appropriate mechanisms [i.6]. To ensure resiliency, the SMO detects faults through methods such as heartbeats and alarms, analyses its impact, and reconfigures workloads using local controllers or cached configurations. Backup system and redundant O-Cloud resources help to maintain the services with minimum disruption, preserving the critical workloads. Failure reporting procedures and effective failover mechanisms can be employed to minimize downtime and ensure rapid recovery.

#### 5.5.5.3 Fronthaul M-plane interface failure
The fronthaul M-plane enables the O-DU to manage the O-RU in a hierarchical deployment and allows both the SMO and O-DU to manage the O-RU in a hybrid deployment. A failure in the fronthaul M-plane interface interrupts the management of the O-RU FCAPS operations. This failure can be detected through mechanisms such as alarms, notifications, and PM counters specified in [i.7]. The O-DU can evaluate the failure by itself or can coordinate with the SMO for evaluation. Based on the failure’s scope, O-DU can resolve it autonomously, or the SMO can initiate corrective actions, such as activating backup links, reallocating carriers, or reconfiguring the O-DU and O-RU to restore connectivity. From a resiliency perspective, the O-DU can try to minimize the service disruption by appropriate recovery mechanisms. The SMO orchestrates these operations by interacting with the O-DU, ensuring that the cell services recovered with minimum interruptions. For scenarios involving shared O-RUs, the SMO can reassign the affected O-RU’s carriers to an alternate O-DU to mitigate service disruptions.

## 5.6 Transport layer failures

### 5.6.1 Overview
A transport layer failure in 5G and O-RAN networks is a disruption in the communication links—fronthaul, midhaul, or backhaul—that connect essential network components such as the O-CU, O-DU, and O-RU. These links are essential for reliable data transfer and signalling throughout the network, directly affecting performance and continuity. Recovery from transport layer failures is therefore a key aspect of O-RAN network resiliency. The following clause illustrates a transport node (TN) failure resiliency use-case and contrasts localized (domain-scoped) recovery methods with end-to-end recovery schemes, highlighting the advantages of the latter approach.
> NOTE: How O-RAN entities interact with TN entities under study as part of transport inclusion work item.

### 5.6.2 Transport layer failure scenarios
switches within the O-Cloud site network [i.5]. In this case, a failure occurs in Virtualized Switch #1 within Site Fabric #1. This failure could be due to hardware malfunction, software errors, or network connectivity issues, disrupting the flow of data between the O-RU and O-DU. Since the O-RU and O-DU rely on this connection for the exchange of control and user data, any breakdown in Virtualized Switch #1 can lead to service interruptions and a degradation in network performance. To recover from the above failure, a resiliency mechanism can be in place that allows the network to quickly identify and switch to an alternative virtualized switch within Site Fabric #1. This alternative switch is pre-configured to handle traffic in the event of such failures, enabling the O-RU and O-DU to maintain their communication without significant disruption. This rapid failover to an alternate switch minimizes service downtime and supports network continuity, demonstrating a critical aspect of O-RAN’s network resiliency strategy. By having multiple virtualized switches and a mechanism to detect failures, the network can efficiently manage faults in key components, supporting high availability and reliability across O-RAN deployments.

#### 5.6.2.1 Domain-scoped (localised) recovery scheme
An alternative virtualized switch within Site Fabric #1, such as Virtualized Switch #2, #3, or #4, is designated to take over the functions of Virtualized Switch #1. However, switches #2, #3 or #4 may already be facing technical issues or operating near capacity, which could make them less suitable as replacements for Switch #1. Hence, a localized, or domain-scoped, recovery solution can be sub-optimal.

#### 5.6.2.2 End-to-end recovery scheme
By utilizing comprehensive, network-wide visibility with access to real-time event logs for deployed resources and their utilization levels, a virtual switch from Site Fabric #2 is selected as the recovery switch for the failed Switch #1. Hence the end-to-end recovery scheme provides a more robust recovery solution than the localized recovery scheme.

### 5.6.3 Network function failure scenario

#### 5.6.3.1 Overview
Recovery from failures in the O-RAN network function domain is considered as a critical requirement of O-RAN network Resiliency. The following clause provides an example of O-RAN NF failure and compares the domain-scoped recovery (localized) scheme to the end-to-end recovery scheme, showing the advantage of the latter approach.

#### 5.6.3.2 O-DU failure example
as the backup O-DU. O-DU #3 is not designated as backup O-DU, however, it is a possible alternative to O-DU #1. The dotted lines in the figure indicate that an alternative connection can be established between the NFs connected with the dotted line. At some point in time, O-DU #1 fails, and an alternative O-DU is needed. The following two clauses describe domain-scoped and end-to-end recovery solutions.

##### 5.6.3.2.1 Domain-scoped (localised) recovery scenario
In a network function (O-DU) failure scenario, a domain-scoped (localized) recovery solution might involve switching to a designated backup, such as O-DU #2. However, if O-DU #2 is already overloaded, this recovery approach may be less than ideal. Figure 5.6-3 illustrates this recovery scheme.

##### 5.6.3.2.2 End-to-end recovery scenario
In the event of an O-DU failure, a recovery solution leveraging network-wide visibility and real-time access to event logs for resource deployment and utilization levels can reroute the O-RU to an underutilized O-DU (O-DU #3). This is achieved by reconfiguring the O-CU, adjusting the underlying transport layer, and updating entries in the DHCP server, as illustrated in Figure 5.6-4. When the O-RU detects it can no longer communicate with O-DU #1, it initiates a reset and performs a DHCP query to obtain the IP address of O-DU #3. This process allows the O-RU to establish a new connection with the available O-DU #3, making this recovery scheme more effective than a localized, domain-scoped recovery approach.

## 5.7 Cloud layer failures
The following are the types of failures that can occur at the cloud layer in O-RAN systems, which can be mitigated through effective resiliency solutions:
- Infrastructure related failures: Examples include O-Cloud failure, O-Cloud site failure, node cluster failure,
other resource failure
- IMS related failures: Examples include IMS software failure, IMS software update failure, O2-IMS interface
failure and IMS provisioning procedure failures
- DMS related failures: Examples include DMS control-plane failure, DMS control-plane upgrading failure,
DMS deployment-plane failure, NF Deployment LCM failure
- O-Cloud application related failures: Examples include pod failure, VM failure, NF deployment failure
These categories highlight potential disruptions that could affect system functionality and service continuity. They indicate the impact on running services, understanding the importance of identifying these issues to develop targeted mitigation strategies. By understanding these failure scenarios and their implications, this chapter lays the groundwork for proposing solutions that enhance the robustness and reliability of O-Cloud deployments.

# 6 Scenarios and considerations

## 6.1 Service restoration time considerations
Service restoration time is an important factor that plays a critical role in resiliency. There are several critical factors that affect service restoration time after an O-DU failure:
- Failover mechanisms: Networks using automatic failover mechanisms with pre-configured backup O-DUs
reduce service restoration times. In contrast, systems with manual or dynamic reconfigurations experience longer delays.
- IP switchover and NF coordination: IP switchover and NF coordination with the resiliency controller are
essential for re-establishing the service.
- Backup strategies: 1:1 (one backup per O-DU) offers faster recovery but are more resource-intensive.
Alternatively, n:1 (one backup for multiple O-DUs) is more economical but involves reconfiguration time. Service recovery time varies based on the network's resiliency strategy, architecture, and complexity, typically ranging from seconds to minutes.

## 6.2 Deployment scenarios
This clause discusses the different deployment scenarios in O-RAN — hierarchical and hybrid — and their impact on resiliency. Each deployment presents unique challenges and opportunities for fault detection, recovery the service with minimum interruptions. The SMO's role in coordinating these efforts is crucial to ensuring network stability and minimizing disruptions across these deployments.

### 6.2.1 Hierarchical deployment
In a hierarchical deployment, resiliency is achieved by assigning specific roles to each entity. For example, it is recommended that O-DU can detect faults by analyzing FM and PM data and manage some failure mitigation in O-RU and configuration based on its capability. The SMO, as the O1 MnS Consumer, acts as a centralized entity to oversee these actions and provide guidance to O-DU in the form of policies and/or configuration details to ensure coordinated failure mitigation. This approach facilitates fault isolation, allowing localized handling of faults at the O-DU level, thereby preventing them from affecting the entire network. For step-by-step recovery, if an O-DU fails, services can be rehomed to another O-DU, or a standby O-DU can be activated. This approach facilitates a distributed recovery mechanism to ensure network resiliency against failures. It also ensures quick recovery, as actions are partially executed at the NF level. For example, the O-DU can detect alarms and perform recovery actions. The O-RAN hierarchical deployment offers significant advantages for resiliency from an OAM perspective. By clearly defining roles and responsibilities, it simplifies management, enhances fault detection and isolation, and supports structured recovery mechanisms. The centralized oversight provided by the SMO ensures consistent policies and coordinated actions, further enhancing network resiliency. This structured and proactive approach makes the hierarchical deployment a robust solution for maintaining network stability and minimizing service disruptions. In this deployment, the SMO configures the O-RU through the O-DU, with the O-DU playing a key role in managing O- RUs and handling configurations. The hierarchical deployment facilitates a controlled and centralized recovery process, where the SMO and O-DU collaborate to restore services after failures. If the O-DU fails, the SMO can reassign configuration tasks to another O- DU, making the O-DU a critical node for ensuring resiliency.

### 6.2.2 Hybrid deployment
From an OAM perspective, achieving resiliency in an O-RAN hybrid deployment necessitates coordination between the SMO and the O-DU for managing the O-RU, as well as the integration of centralized and distributed components.
> NOTE: The specific roles and responsibilities of the SMO and O-DU in managing the O-RU within a hybrid
deployment are currently under discussion within O-RAN and have yet to be finalized. Once these responsibilities are defined, this clause will be revisited and updated accordingly.

### 6.2.3 Transport resiliency considerations
Transport networks play a crucial role in ensuring reliability and recovery, utilizing redundancy protocols such as e.g., SCTP multi-homing [i.4], and other mechanisms to enable potential failover across fronthaul, midhaul, and backhaul links. Additionally, robust alarm delivery and telemetry monitoring are vital for maintaining service continuity in hierarchical and hybrid deployments.

## 6.3 Considerations for resiliency
Ensuring resiliency in O-RAN deployments involves robust planning across various network entities, including RAN nodes (O-RU, O-DU, O-CU), interfaces, transport layers, and the O-Cloud infrastructure. The SMO plays a critical role in managing the state, and recovery of these components, coordinating failovers and service restoration. Resiliency strategies like active-standby configurations are crucial for minimizing service disruptions. End-to-end OAM processes, including performance monitoring and fault management, further enhance the network's ability to recover from failures and maintain service with minimum disruption.

### 6.3.1 Backup options
The SMO serves as the resiliency controller, playing a critical role in minimizing service disruptions caused by failures. It manages the switchover to backup units and resources, ensuring uninterrupted service across the network. To achieve this, the SMO ensures resiliency by managing resilient instances for network functions such as O-DU and O-CU. This is accomplished through backup mechanisms like software-based backups and hardware-based backups, to maintain service continuity.

#### 6.3.1.1 Software-based backup
Involves creating snapshots or backups of the software configurations, which can be utilized to recover the service in case of failure. For example, NF software images, container images, or application states.

#### 6.3.1.2 Hardware-based backup
Dedicated standby hardware components along with associated software that can take over in case of failure. This is usually more costly but provides a quicker recovery.

### 6.3.2 Redundant node options
To ensure the resiliency in an end-to-end O-RAN systems, the redundant or standby node options are necessary to quickly recover from the failures, but at the associated cost. The standby node or NF can have the same capabilities as the active NF. The SMO can manage this depending on the resiliency scenarios and deployments. The above can be quantified in terms of the management of carrier resources, associated throughput, the number of UEs, and the number of cells/sectors. In a scenario where a standby O-DU is unavailable, malfunctioning, or experiencing issues such as port failures or M- plane connectivity problems, it cannot be utilized for recovery. In such cases, the SMO may need to explore alternative recovery strategies like having more than one resilient O-DU instance, but end-to-end service availability might not be fully restored if no functional back-up O-DU is available. In a scenario with multiple back-up O-DU instances, SMO can decide which O-DU can take over the O-RU operation based on the traffic requirements and network conditions. For example, the O-DU resiliency options can consider the following.
- Active-standby – If the active O-DU fails, the standby O-DU is activated. The M-plane connection with the O-
RU can remain active, enabling the standby O-DU to take over the O-RU services as quickly as possible. In this scenario, resources can either be pre-allocated or allocated only after a failure occurs depending on the deployment.
- The active and standby O-DUs can be connected to the same O-CU (Intra O-CU) or different O-CUs (Inter O-
CU) depending on the deployment.
- The example standby configuration options include 1+1, N (Active) + K (Standby), and N+1 (All active with 1
hot spare).

#### 6.3.2.1 1+1 redundancy
Each active node has a dedicated standby node and it is simple but can be resource-intensive and expensive.

#### 6.3.2.2 N+1 redundancy
One standby node serves multiple active nodes. This is more resource-efficient and cost effective for managing failovers.

#### 6.3.2.3 N+M redundancy
There are multiple standby nodes (M) for the SMO to utilize in the event of failure in one or more active nodes (N). This is a trade-off between the cost of resiliency and the probability of successful service recovery, with the goal of minimizing service outages.

### 6.3.3 Entities
Entities that can be involved in O-RAN network resiliency procedure are as follows:
- RAN nodes: Includes O-RU, O-DU, and O-CU, which are critical O-RAN network functions.
- Interfaces: Resiliency considerations include handling failures or degradations in the functionalities supported
over interfaces such as A1, O1, O2, E2, and R1.
- Transport: Network layer and port redundancy are key for maintaining transport resiliency.
- O-Cloud: The infrastructure layer, comprising a platform that abstracts the underlying physical resources (e.g.,
CPUs, GPUs, storage, and data centers), enables a virtualized and resilient environment for hosting containers and clusters. This environment serves as the foundation for deploying network functions, such as O-DU and O-CU, and is integral to ensuring O-Cloud resiliency.
> NOTE: The O2 interface is crucial for managing O-Cloud resources and ensuring resiliency. The role of SMO in
handling O-Cloud resiliency is addressed as part of the WG6 Resiliency WI.
- RIC: The RIC, including Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC, plays a vital role in network management.
- SMO: Acts as the central resiliency controller, managing state, failovers, and service restoration

### 6.3.4 End-to-end aspects
End-to-end OAM aspects for resiliency focus on the monitoring, management, and orchestration of key components within O-RAN system to minimize service disruptions. This includes fault detection, performance monitoring, and proactive maintenance for critical components such as O-RU, O-DU, and associated network services. It also covers the cloud infrastructure in the case of CNF deployment, as well as the interfaces like fronthaul and O1. The SMO plays a critical role in managing these aspects, ensuring service disruptions minimized as much as possible by appropriate recovery mechanisms. SMO can leverage the AI/ML capabilities to enhance decision-making during resiliency scenarios. This enables the SMO to efficiently recover service paths and restore service availability while minimizing disruptions. This approach strengthens resiliency across various O-RAN deployment scenarios, ensuring collaboration with the SMO, and resiliency strategies to safeguard service availability effectively. Key components of this resiliency approach include: Performance monitoring and fault detection: Utilizing supervisory controls to detect failures at multiple elements involved in service path, and VNF and cloud infrastructure in case of cloud deployment, as well as across O-RU, O-DU, and O- CU nodes. Recovery mechanisms: Employing manual or automated healing processes that restore service upon detection of failures, including switchover to backup systems or reconfiguring NFs such as O-CUs and O-DUs. Resiliency models: Implementing resiliency strategies as described in clause 6.3.2, sparing across network functions and transport systems to minimize downtime. This covers not only the physical node failovers but also VNF and CNF, to ensure resiliency in various deployments.

## 6.4 Relationships with rolling upgrade

### 6.4.1 Overview
Ensuring resiliency during rolling upgrades in a 5G network is critical to maintaining uninterrupted service for users while upgrading network components incrementally. Rolling upgrades in 5G networks involve updating software, hardware, or configurations in a phased manner to avoid downtime and ensure continuous service availability. Many resiliency techniques for protecting 5G network against failures are key enablers for resilient rolling upgrade also. Below are the key resiliency technologies and strategies for rolling upgrades in 5G mobile networks.

### 6.4.2 Redundant NF architectures
Redundant architecture ensures that multiple instances of critical network components (e.g. O-DU, O-CU-CP) are available to handle traffic and prevent service down time not only due to unexpected failures but also due to rolling upgrades. High availability distributing traffic across redundant instances. Service interruption in one instance during the upgrading will not affect the entire system thus ensure service continuity. Both active-standby or active-active NF redundancy architecture can be approached. In active-standby configuration, new NFs take over the UE traffic when a NF fails or being shut down due to upgrading. In active-active configuration, critical UE traffic is steered to healthy network functions that were serving other users before a failure or upgrading happens to a NF. The rolling upgrading case, the new NF taking over the traffic can be the newer version of application or equipment to be upgraded to or the older version to be fallback to. Cross-region redundancy, e.g. deploy active and standby O-CU- CPs and O-CU-UPs in different regional data, may be also required to prevent single regional failures during upgrading. Existing redundant and failover features supported in O-RAN and 3GPP, e.g. OFH shared O-RU for redundancy, F1/X2/Xn/Ng interface multi-TNL associations and failovers, are important techniques to support rolling upgrade also. It ensures standby NF instances are brought in and connected with other NFs automatically and the service recovers quickly or is completely uninterrupted during the upgrading.

### 6.4.3 Resiliency technologies in cloud-native NFs
5G networks increasingly rely on cloud-native principles, such as containerization and microservices, for scalability and flexibility. Cloud-native architecture enables rolling upgrades of individual microservices without affecting the entire NF. Automated scaling ensures network capacity is not affected during failures or upgrading. Automated failover mechanisms ensure existing traffic and context are hand overed to other healthy microservice instances seamlessly with less effort and service interruption during the upgrading. Load balancers distribute traffic across multiple instances of an application, traffic is routed away from instances being updated to ensure uninterrupted service. Rollback mechanisms allow reverting to a previous version of software or configurations if issues are detected during rolling upgrades. It minimizes downtime and service disruptions in case of failures during the upgrading. For example, the related cloud technologies include:
- Kubernetes rollback
- Version control for network configurations (e.g., GitOps)
- Other cloud-native rollback tools

### 6.4.4 Redundant transport paths
Redundant network paths ensure that traffic can be rerouted in case of failures during upgrades. It prevents single points of failure in the transport network and ensures continuous connectivity during upgrades.

### 6.4.5 Monitoring and observability
Performance monitoring and fault management data provide insights into the health and performance of the 5G network during either unexpected failures or rolling upgrades. Detecting and mitigating issues in real-time is important. Automated rollback in case of failures is needed if issues cannot be mitigated in time with other solutions. AI/ML and analytics could be important tools to detect and diagnosis issues in real-time for quicker response and minimized the service impact.

# 7 Potential resiliency solutions

## 7.1 Overview
This clause outlines the potential resiliency solutions managed by SMO. These solutions include the resiliency of O-DU and O-CU-CP, utilizing standby O-DU and O-CU-CP, and leveraging the transport resiliency capabilities for rehoming O-RUs from one O-DU to another. Additionally, it addresses the resiliency of NF Deployment(s) within O-Cloud. End- to-end resiliency can be achieved through cross-domain orchestration, and automated or operator-managed service continuity. The following sub clauses describe the various resiliency solutions that can be used for resilient O-RAN networks to minimize the service interruptions during the failure.

## 7.2 Solution 1: Enhanced network resiliency through standby O- DU and adaptive cell activation managed by SMO

### 7.2.1 Basic objective
This clause details the mechanisms by which the SMO framework manages the recovery of an O-RU and associated user services in the event of an O-DU failure (complete or partial). The SMO can trigger an O-DU switchover in response to a failure affecting the O-RU. The focus is on ensuring system recovery when the active O-DU becomes non-operational (Operational State = Disabled). Two primary deployment scenarios can be considered:
- Active-standby: In this setup, when the active O-DU fails, the SMO can trigger a switchover to a standby O-
DU, allowing services to continue with minimal disruption.
- Active-active: Here, services can dynamically be rehomed or resource shifting from the failed O-DU to another
O-DU, ensuring service with minimum disruption. However, due to the higher deployment cost compared to the previous option, this solution emphasizes active-standby deployments.
> NOTE: The "active-active" does not imply that the same cells are operational in both O-DUs; instead, it refers to
another O-DU that has its management plane fully operational and ready to take over. The actors involved can include the SMO, O-CU, O-DUs, and O-RU, which work together to maintain service continuity against O-DU failures. This solution can also include the SMO framework to manage more complex failure scenarios, such as simultaneous failures of multiple O-DUs, partial failures, or interface disruptions (like the FH-M/CU Plane, F1, E2, and O1). These scenarios might involve the reallocation of resources and reconfiguration of O-RUs to ensure service stability. The clause can also explore resiliency strategies for different redundancy scenarios, including N+1 and N+M, where N represents active O-DUs, and M represents standby O-DUs. These can also be applicable in both single and multi-operator Shared O-RU deployments and are designed to optimize resource utilization while ensuring high availability [i.1]. This solution describes the switch-over of the standby O-DU to become the new active O-DU.

### 7.2.2 Roles of involved entities
The description below outlines the actors involved: 1) O-RU: The O-RU can help in detection of the O-DU connectivity/availability seen from O-RU perspective during a resiliency recovery operation. For example, in the event of an active O-DU experiencing a complete or partial failure, or other failures such as software, interface or others as defined in clause 4.20.1.12 of [i.1], the O-RU can help identify which connections are still functional by reporting the active Netconf status. 2) O-DUs (active/standby O-DUs): The O-DUs connected to the O-RU play a significant role during a resiliency operation. The active O-DU can serve as the primary unit, managing essential LCM and FCAPS functions and managing the HDLC stack for ALDs connected to the O-RU. In the event of the active O-DU's failure, the other O-DUs connected to the O- RU take over to restore services for end users. If the host O-DU fails, the other connected O-DUs step in to manage the associated O-RUs and ensure the service with minimum disruption. 3) O-CU: O-CU receives cell related configurations from SMO and available cell details from O-DU(s). Based on the available resources reported by O-DU and desired availability of cells received from SMO, the O-CU activates or deactivates the cells in the O-DU using F1 interface. 4) SMO:
- The SMO assigns initial roles to the O-DUs (active, standby) or resiliency pairs based on the operator's decisions.
- The SMO can be responsible for making high-level decisions related to failures and various resiliency scenarios,
including the management of O-DUs when they are taken out of service, whether intentionally or permanently, which impacts O-RU operations. It addresses a range of resiliency challenges such as maintenance, software upgrades, network failures, power outages, and communication link disruptions. Additionally, the operator can use the SMO to switch roles between the currently serving O-DU and another O-DU, designating the latter as the new primary.

### 7.2.3 Solution description
The solution for the O-DU resiliency use case is to recover the O-RU operation and associated services to the users as soon as possible. The O-DU resiliency use case solution is described in Table 7.2.3-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use To provide the O-DU instance to the same level of functionality as failed or degraded O-DU instance as soon as possible by reconfiguring the system to use standby O-DU. The SMO periodically monitors the status of O1 interface and, when a Goal complete and irrecoverable link failure is detected, triggers automatic failover to a standby O-DU. The potential solution can be the SMO configures standby O-DU to replace the failed O-DU. This is a service impacting use case. O-RU: The O-RU handles the fronthaul and air interfaces and the reporting of performance counters and failures via FH M-plane interface. O-DUs (Active/Standby O-DUs):
- All the O-DUs connected to the O-RU are actors that are
involved in O-DU Resiliency scenario.
- O-DU receives cell(s) and associated carriers configurations
from SMO and coordinates with O-CU-CP for the activation. Actors and O-CU: Roles O-CU receives cell related configurations from SMO and available cell details from O-DU(s). Based on the available resources reported by O-DU and desired availability of cells received from SMO, the O-CU activates or deactivates the cells in the O-DU using F1 interface. SMO: The SMO configures the role of O-DUs as active or standby O-DUs and informs these roles to O-RU through O-DU in hierarchical deployment. It makes high-level decisions related to resiliency scenarios described in Clause 7.2.1. It is assumed that when the active O-DU fails, there will still be at least one standby O-DU with or without an active Netconf session with the O- Assumptions RU to restore the services to end user. Several scenarios can trigger the O-DU resiliency use case, as detailed in Clause 7.2.1. This use case addresses complete or partial failures of an O-DU, performance degradation, and other broader issues, with the primary objective of maintaining the operational integrity of the O-RU and Begins when O-DU system despite the active O-DU's failure or other disruptions, such as O1 interface failures. This use case is triggered when the primary O-DU encounters any of the above conditions, resulting in its Operational State becoming "disabled”.
- O1 between SMO and O-CU-CP is up and running
- O-DU#1 is configured to active role with O1 up and running O1
towards SMO.
- O-DU#2 is configured to standby role or not configured at all, if it is
Preconditions available the O1 between SMO and O-DU#2 is up and running.
- SMO has valid subscriptions for alarms, PM counters, and
notifications to O-DU#1’s, and O-DU#2’s if it is connected via O1 interface. O-DU#1 (PARTIAL/COMPLETE) FAILURE DETECTION SMO uses the O1 interface to monitors O-DU#1 and detect the service WG10.O1-Interface Alt Step 1 (M) degradation by analyzing the performance counters, alarms, and [i.8]; notifications. Use Case The SMO recognizes O1 interface failure or complete O-DU#1 failure WG10.O1-Interface through FM and/or PM data. Alt Step 2 (M) [i.8]; Use case See NOTE 1, NOTE 2.
- Partial O-DU failure: SMO analyses the notifications / faults / PM
counters from O-DU#1 and detect the partial failure or performance degradation.
- Complete O-DU failure or O1 interface failure: SMO analyses
notifications / faults / PM Counters from O-CU-CP to determine if ▪ O-CU-CP has connectivity to O-DU#1 via F1 interface WG10.O1-Interface ▪ Cell(s) served by the O-DU#1 with lost O1 interface has been Step 3 (M) [i.8]; communicated by O-DU#1 to O-CU-CP via F1 interface as Use case subject of removal. The result of this step is used by SMO to decide to switch services from O-DU#1 to O-DU#2 upon detecting failures in Steps 1 and 2. See NOTE 3. CELL(S) AND ASSOCIATED CARRIERS DEACTIVATION AND OPTIONALLY REMOVE THEM ▪ The SMO uses O1 interface to request O-DU#1 to lock the cell(s) and remove corresponding carrier(s) resources. WG10.O1-Interface Alt Step 4a (M) ▪ The O-DU#1 notifies SMO about the status of performed operations. [i.8]; Use case See NOTE 4, NOTE 5. O-DU#1 deactivate the [tr]x-array-carriers as described in Clause 15.3 of WG10.O1-Interface WG4-MP specification and optionally remove the [tr]x-array-carriers [i.8]; Step 4b (M) resources. WG4.OFH.M-Plane Use case The O-DU#1 notifies the SMO about the status change for cell(s) WG10.O1-Interface indicated in Step 4a. Step 4c (M) [i.8]; Use case See NOTE 6. Depending on results determined in Step 3, the SMO uses the O1 interface to request O-CU-CP to terminate the F1 interface with the failed WG10.O1-Interface Alt Step 5 (M) O-DU, i.e., O-DU#1. [i.8]; Use case See NOTE 7. RECOVER O-RU OPERATION
- The SMO configures the O-DU#2 to connect with O-CU-CP.
- The O-DU informs SMO about result of above mentioned operation WG10.O1-Interface
Step 6 (M) using O1 interface. [i.8]; Use case See NOTE 8. O-DU#2 becomes the active O-DU to recover the associated O-RU WG10.O1-Interface operations and associated user services. Step 7 (M) [i.8]; Use case See NOTE 9.
- SMO creates and configures the cell(s) associated with O-DU#2 on
WG10.O1-Interface O-CU-CP through the O1 interface. Step 8 (M) [i.8];
- The O-CU-CP informs SMO about the results of above mentioned
Use case operations through the O1 interface.
- The SMO configures O-DU#2 with cell(s) corresponding to cell(s)
configured to O-CU-CP in Step 5.
- The SMO provides O-DU#2 with mapping between carrier(s)
WG10.O1-Interface resources and cell(s) resources. Step 9 (O) [i.8];
- The O-DU#2 informs the results of the above operations to the SMO
Use case through the O1 interface. See NOTE 10, NOTE 11, NOTE 12.
- O-DU#2 configures the [tr]x-array-carriers and activates on O-RU as WG10.O1-Interface
described in Clause 15.3 of WG4-MP specification. [i.8]; Step 10 (O) WG4.OFH.M-Plane
- The O-RU informs the results of the above operations to the O-DU Use case
through the OFH M-plane interface. For the cell(s) successfully activated in result of Step 5, the O-CU-CP WG10.O1-Interface Step 11 (M) notifies the SMO on their activation status via the O1 interface. [i.8]; Use case
- O-DU#2 notifies the SMO on the cell(s) and corresponding carrier(s)
activation status via the O1 interface. WG10.O1-Interface Step 12 (M) • The O-DU#2 becomes ready to offer services now. [i.8]; Use case See NOTE 13, NOTE 14.
- The SMO makes subscriptions to performance counters and
notifications if O-DU#2 was not configured as stated in Pre-condition. WG10.O1-Interface
- SMO collects the performance counters and notifications from O-
Step 13 (M) [i.8]; DU#2 via the O1 interface. Use case See NOTE 15. The use case ends when the standby O-DU, O-DU#2 shown in the flow Ends when diagram has taken over for the previously active O-DU, O-DU#1. There are many exceptions. Some of these include: If the O-RU fails during a switch over If the standby O-DU#2 also becomes unavailable when it is due to become active. If any event messaging for the flow is lost Exceptions If configuration was not done properly If the standby O-DU losses the configuration data from the configuration replica. If the active O-DU returns to service while the standby O-DU is trying to become the active O-DU. If the connectivity, or functionality of the management system (SMO) becomes unavailable. SUCCESSFUL POST-CONDITION – On a successful post-condition, the O-RU is connected to the newly active O-DU i.e., O-DU#2, the O-DU#2 has started its functions successfully and has properly synchronised with the O-RU. System utilizing O-DU#2 is ready to accept UEs and provide them with services. Failed O-DU#1 is successfully replaced by O-DU#2 in service path. Post Conditions FAILURE POST-CONDITION – If one of the various exception cases occurs, there are a variety of failure post conditions. If no O-DUs are available and the O-RU is orphaned no service is available and the O- RU could shut down operations. If misconfiguration occurs the O-RU will respond accordingly. If there are ever two active O-DUs, the O-RU will operate accordingly.
> NOTE 1: Prior accepting O1 interface failure SMO may apply timer or retry to establish O1 connection with
affected O-DU several times. Exact number of re-attempts and value of timer is not subject of this TR.
> NOTE 2: It is assumed that O-DU as MnS producer is also able to detect O1 failure and take autonomous reset in
case lack of management plane caused by O1 failure. This assumption is taken to avoid uncertainty caused by lack of ability for management system to assess how services are impacted by O-DU without available management interface.
> NOTE 3: The logic applied by SMO in this decision process is not subject of this Technical Report.
> NOTE 4: The process of cell deactivation/removal between O-CU-CP and O-DU#1 utilizes F1 interface. Related
communication over F1 interface is not the subject of this TR.
> NOTE 5: SMO's logic employed to decide if cell will be locked or removed is not subject of this CR.
> NOTE 6: The process of cell deactivation/removal between O-CU-CP and O-DU#1 utilizes F1 interface. Related
communication over F1 interface is not the subject of this TR.
> NOTE 7: SMO's logic employed to terminate the F1 interface is not subject of this TR. The success or failure of
the F1 termination does not impact the rest of the steps.
> NOTE 8: Provisioning of TNL configuration by SMO to O-DU#2 is the enabler for the F1 establishment between
O-DU#2 and O-CU-CP.
> NOTE 9: There are preconditions that are relevant and necessary for this to happen. It is necessary that a call home
between the O-RU and standby O-DU i.e., O-DU#2, and the replication of the configuration information has occurred, and that the O-DU#2 has the configuration of the O-DU#1.
> NOTE 10: If F1 is established, the O-DU#2 informs the O-CU-CP about cell(s) availability using the F1 interface.
Related communications over F1 interface is not the subject of this TR.
> NOTE 11: In hierarchical deployment in this step SMO also provides O-DU with configuration for O-RUs served
by this O-DU.
> NOTE 12: F1 interface is used to exchange information needed for cell activation between O-CU-CP and O-DU.
> NOTE 13: Following the transition, O-RU operations are restored with O-DU#2, reestablishing services to users
with the CUS-Plane up and running.
> NOTE 14: The recovery time is influenced by the deployment architecture (hierarchical and hybrid), as well as
factors such as IP switchover, interface reconfiguration (e.g., O1, OFH, and F1), and failure detection mechanisms. Systems must consider these delays and optimize activation sequences to reduce downtime during failure events.
> NOTE 15: The transition of the active role from O-DU#2 back to O-DU#1 involves the same steps as the initial
transition from the O-DU#1 to O-DU#2, with the exception of which O-DU is to be activated. This activity is initiated based on a trigger from the SMO and/or the operator's decision. The flow diagram of the resiliency use case is given in Figure 7.2.3-1. !pragma teoz true skin rose Box "Operator" #Lightblue Actor operator as "Operations Actor" Box “Service Management and Orchestration” #gold Box “O-RAN Network Functions” #lightpink Note over operator, ODU2 <B>PRECONDITIONS:</B> 1. O1 between SMO and O-CU-CP is up and running 2. O1 supervision is running between SMO and O-DU#1 3. O1 supervision is running between SMO and O-DU#2 4. SMO subscribed for O1 data to O-DU#1 and O-DU#2 if connected via O1 interface. End Note Alt Partial failure or performance degradation SMO_a <-> ODU1 : [1] <<O1>> Service degradation due to O-DU#1 failure detected Else Complete O-DU failure or O1 interface failure SMO_a <-> ODU1 : [2] <<O1>> Link between SMO and O-DU#1 has failed End alt Note over SMO_a, ODU2 [3] SMO decides to move services to O-DU#2 End note par SMO_a <-> ODU1 : [4a] <<O1>> Lock the cell(s) and remove resources <<F1>> Cell deactivation or removal End note ODU1<->ORU : [4b] <<OFH>> Deactivate [tr]x-array-carriers and optionally remove them End par else Completely failed O-DU and not reachable to SMO via O1 interface SMO_a <-> OCU : [5] <<O1>> Terminate the F1 interface with O-DU#1 par else SMO_a <-> OCU : [8] <<O1>> Creation and configuration of cell else opt SMO_a<->ODU2 : [9] <<O1>> Cell and carrier(s) configuration to O-DU#2 DU#2 to O-CU-CP) ODU2 <-> ORU : [10] <<OFH>> Configuration of [tr]x-array-carriers ... **Wait until: All above steps are completed successfully** ... Note over ORU, ODU2 O-DU is now active and ready for services. O-RU is operational again, connected, in service (M-Plane, CUS-Plane is up and running. SMO_a<->ODU2: [13] <<O1>> Subscription to performance counters from O-DU#2 Active role transition from O-DU#2 to O-DU#1 involves same steps as transitioned from O-DU#1 to O-DU#2, except which O-DU to be activated. This activity is based on trigger from SMO and/or operator’s decision.

## 7.3 Solution 2: Enhanced network resiliency through the standby O- CU-CP and service restoration managed by the SMO

### 7.3.1 Basic objective
This solution outlines the system behaviour for ensuring resiliency in O-CU-CP failure recovery within O-RAN networks. It addresses complete loss of management or partial failures causing service interruptions while the O1 interface remains active. The framework enables operators to detect failures and restore services through appropriate recovery actions. The focus is on maintaining network resiliency and minimizing disruptions, while root cause analysis is outside the solution's scope. The objective is to provide an effective approach for operators to manage and recover from failures, ensuring robust network operations.

### 7.3.2 Roles of involved entities
The description below outlines the actors involved: 1) SMO a. SMO assigns initial roles to O-CU-CPs (active, standby) or resiliency pairs based on operator decisions. b. It facilitates high-level decision-making during failures and resiliency scenarios, including managing O-CU-CP during partial or complete failures, interface disruptions, and planned maintenance. c. SMO enables service recovery by transitioning operations from the active O-CU-CP to a standby O- CU-CP, minimizing service disruption for end users. 2) O-CU-CPs a. O-CU-CP receives cell-related configurations from the SMO and cell availability details from the O- DU(s). Based on the resource availability reported by the O-DU and the desired cell availability specified by the SMO, the O-CU-CP manages the activation or deactivation of cells in the O-DU via the F1 interface. b. O-CU-CP periodically reports the alarms and performance measurement counters to SMO via O1 interface. c. Active and standby O-CU-CPs are essential for resiliency, allowing the SMO to configure the standby to restore services after failure. This transition activates the affected cells, ensuring minimal service disruption for users. 3) O-DU All O-DUs connected to the O-CU-CP are vital for recovery operations during resiliency scenarios. If the O1 interface remains operational, the SMO can analyse OAM data to identify O-CU-CP failures and reconfigure O- DUs to migrate services to the standby O-CU-CP, minimizing disruption. 4) O-RU The O-RU enables the operation of [tr]x-array carriers linked to the cells managed by the O-DU in conjunction with the O-CU-CP. Additionally, the O-RU plays a crucial role in maintaining the fronthaul and air interfaces, working in coordination with the O-DU to support the recovery of the cells managed by the O-CU-CP.

### 7.3.3 Solution description
The solution for the O-CU-CP resiliency use case is to recover the cell(s) served by the associated O-DUs and O-RUs, which is detailed in Table 7.3.3-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use The goal of this sub use case solution is for the SMO to manage O-CU- CP failure and to restore services to the best possible level. Goal This is a service impacting use case. SMO: The SMO is responsible for configuring the active and standby roles for O-CU-CPs, as well as orchestrating recovery processes in the event of an O-CU-CP failure. It makes high-level decisions for scenarios outlined in Clause 7.x, including failure management, resiliency handling, and service continuity. O-CU-CP: O-CU-CP receives cell(s) related configurations from the SMO and cell(s) resources availability information from O-DU(s). Based on the resource availability reported by the O-DU and the desired cell Actors and availability specified by the SMO, the O-CU-CP manages the Roles activation or deactivation of cells in the O-DU via the F1 interface. O-DUs (Active/Standby O-DUs): All the O-DUs connected to the O-CU-CP are responsible for managing cell(s) resources, where these resources are configured by the SMO via O1 interface, as needed. Additionally, the O-DU is responsible for configuring [tr]x-array-carrier(s) in the O-RU. Furthermore, the O-DU can support the SMO in getting the O-CU- CP status through FM and PM data via O1 interface. O-RU: The O-RU handles the fronthaul and air interfaces and the reporting of performance counters and failures. It is assumed that in the event of an active O-CU-CP failure, at least one standby O-CU-CP will be available to ensure service recovery for users. Assumptions The resiliency mechanisms are designed to take over the operation of the cell(s) associated with the connected O-DUs, restoring services to The O-CU-CP Resiliency use case can be triggered by various scenarios, as outlined in Clause 7.x. These scenarios include complete or partial failures of an O-CU-CP, performance degradation, and other critical issues. The primary goal of this use case is to ensure the continued operational integrity of the O-RU and O-DU system, even in the event of Begins when an active O-CU-CP failure or disruptions such as interface failures (e.g., F1, E2, and O1). This use case is activated when the Primary O-CU-CP experiences any of above conditions, leading to its Operational State being set to "disabled”. 1) O-CU-CP#1 is configured to take active role with up and running O1 towards SMO. 2) F1 interface between O-CU-CP#1 and O-DU is established. Preconditions 3) O-CU-CP#2 is configured to take standby role with up and running O1 towards SMO or not configured at all. See NOTE 1. BEGIN O-CU-CP RESILIENCY USE CASE O-CU-CP RESILIENCY USE CASE – O-CU-CP#1 FAILURE (COMPLETE/PARTIAL) The SMO analyses alarms and performance management data to detect Step 1 (M) and identify the failure of O-CU-CP#1. Use Case SMO decides to switch services from O-CU-CP#1 to O-CU-CP#2 upon detecting a partial failure in O-CU-CP#1. For example, SMO detects partial O-CU-CP#1 failure based on alarms and/or PM counters that can WG10.O1 interface Step 2 (M) receive through the O1 interface from O-CU-CP#1. [i.8] See NOTE 2. CELL REMOVAL FOR EACH O-DU COOPERATING WITH AFFECTED O-CU-CP#1 FOR EACH CELL THAT REQUIRES REMOVAL ON PARTICULAR O-DU The SMO requests O-DU to deactivate and optionally remove the cell(s) associated with O-CU-CP#1 via O1 interface and to release the WG10.O1 interface Step 3 (M) corresponding resources respectively. See NOTE 3.
- The O-DU deactivates the [tr]x-array-carrier(s) associated with the
cell(s) managed by O-CU-CP#1 in Step 3. The process for deactivating the [tr]x-array-carrier(s) is illustrated in Figure 15.3.2-0b O-RAN.WG4.MP [i.7], Step 4 (M) of O-RAN.WG4.MP specification. Clause 15.3.
- The O-DU receives notifications regarding the outcome of the
deactivation operation. For the cell(s) configurations requested in Step 3, O-DU sends a notification to the SMO via the O1 interface, indicating whether the WG10.O1 interface Step 5 (M) request(s) were successfully fulfilled, partially fulfilled, or failed. See NOTE 4. CELL CREATION AND ACTIVATION FOR EACH O-DU INTENDED TO COOPERATE WITH O-CU-CUP#2 FOR EACH CELL THAT REQUIRES CREATION AND ACTIVATION ON PARTICULAR O-DU
- The SMO configures the O-DU to connect with O-CU-CP#2,
providing necessary details such as transport parameters, connection requirements, and configurations for performance management. WG10.O1 interface Step 6 (M)
- The O-DU informs the results of the above operations to the SMO [i.8]
through the O1 interface. See NOTE 5. The SMO configures O-CU-CP#2 to get it into service path.
- SMO creates and configures the cell(s) to O-CU-CP#2 through the
O1 interface. O-CU-CP#2 is provided with necessary configuration including transport details, cell(s) configuration, configuration WG10.O1 interface Step 7 (M) needed to connect with O-DU, configuration for Performance [i.8] Management and so on.
- The O-CU-CP#2 informs the results of the above operations to the
SMO through the O1 interface.
- The SMO creates cell(s) objects if needed
- The SMO manages the setup of cell(s) and corresponding carrier(s)
resources in O-DU, which are associated with the respective cell(s) managed by O-CU-CP#2 as part of Step 5. WG10.O1 interface Step 8 (M/O)
- The O-DU informs the results of the above operations to the SMO [i.8]
through the O1 interface. See NOTE 6, NOTE 7. The O-DU configures and activates the [tr]x-array-carrier(s) on the O-RU Step 9 (M) in accordance with the activation sequence depicted in Figure 15.3.2-0a Clause 15.3. of the O-RAN.WG4.MP.
- The SMO sends an activation request for the cell(s) configured
successfully in Steps 7 and 8 to O-CU-CP#2.
- The O-CU-CP#2 confirms the reception of activation request from WG10.O1 interface
Step 10 (M) SMO through the O1 interface. [i.8] See NOTE 8. For the cell(s) activation request in Step 7, O-CU-CP#2 notifies the SMO WG10.O1 interface Step 11 (M) on their activation status via the O1 interface. The standby O-CU-CP i.e., O-CU-CP#2 is ready to offer services. The SMO subscribes and collects the alarms and performance counters from O-CU-CP#2 via the O1 interface. WG10.O1 interface Step 12 (M) See NOTE 9. The Use Case ends when the standby O-CU-CP, O-CU-CP#2 shown in Ends when the flow diagram has taken over for the previously active O-CU-CP, O- CU-CP#1. There are many exceptions. Some of these include: If the Standby O-CU-CP#2 fails during switch over or becomes unavailable when it is due to become active. If any event messaging for the flow is lost If configuration was not done properly Exceptions If the Standby O-CU-CP losses the configuration data from the configuration replica. If the active O-CU-CP returns to service while the Standby O-CU-CP is trying to become the active O-CU-CP. If the connectivity, or functionality of the management system (SMO) becomes unavailable. SUCCESSFUL POST-CONDITION – On a successful post-condition, the O-DU is connected to the newly active O-CU-CP, the newly active O-CU- CP is operational and has properly connected and synchronised with the O-DU. Post Conditions FAILURE POST-CONDITION – If one of the various exception cases occurs, there are a variety of failure post conditions. If no O-CU-CPs are available and the O-DU is disconnected, service will be unavailable, and the O-DU could shut down operations. If misconfiguration occurs the O- DU will respond accordingly. If there are ever two active O-CU-CPs, the O-DU will operate accordingly.
> NOTE 1: O-CU-CP#2 is not present if is deployed as VNF.
> NOTE 2: There might be multiple other O-DUs, but only one active O-DU. The management system, SMO, shall
know, coordinate, and ensure that there is only one active O-DU.
> NOTE 3: Cell deactivation/removal between O-CU-CP#1 and O-DU via F1 interface, where the O-DU informs
the O-CU-CP#1 about the released resources through the same interface [i.4]. Related communications involved over F1 interface is not the subject of this TR.
> NOTE 4: This use case defines only the steps if Step 3 is successfully accomplished.
> NOTE 5: SMO provides TNL configuration to O-DU, which is the enabler for the F1 establishment.
> NOTE 6: F1 setup procedure done after O-DU configured by SMO. If F1is established, and cells and their
corresponding carriers are configured and available for service, the O-DU informs the O-CU-CP#2 about cell(s) availability using the F1 interface [i.4]. Related communications involved over F1 interface is not the subject of this TR.
> NOTE 7: O-DU configures cell(s) and associated carrier(s) and then activates the [tr]x-array-carrier(s) in the O-
RU via the Fronthaul M-plane [i.7].
> NOTE 8: O-CU-CP#2 utilizes F1 to get the information from the O-DU about cell(s) availability for activation.
O-CU-CP#2 triggers the activation of these cell(s) (NRCGI(s)) on the O-DU as soon as the corresponding resources become available, which then activates corresponding carrier(s) on the O-RU. The O-DU communicates the activation status back to the O-CU using the F1 interface. Once activated, the O-RU becomes operational with O-DU#1, with the cell on air and ready to serve UEs [i.4]. Related communications involved over F1 interface is not the subject of this TR.
> NOTE 9: The transition of the active role from O-CU-CP#2 back to O-CU-CP#1 involves the same steps as the
initial transition from the O-CU-CP#1 to O-CU-CP#2, except for which O-CU-CP is to be activated. This activity is initiated based on a trigger from the SMO and/or the operator's decision. The flow diagram of the O-CU-CP resiliency use case is given in Figure 7.3.3-1. !pragma teoz true skin rose Box "Operator" #Lightblue Actor operator as "Operations Actor" Box “Service Management and Orchestration” #gold Box “O-RAN Network Functions” #lightpink Note over smo, oru <B>PRECONDITIONS:</B> 1. SMO configured O-CU-CP#1 to take active role with up and running O1 towards SMO 2. F1 interface between O-CU-CP#1 and O-DU is established 3. SMO subscribed to alarms and performance counters from O-CU-CP#1 4. SMO configured O-CU-CP#2 to take standby role with up and running O1 towards SMO or not configured at all End Note Autonumber Group O-CU-CP RESILIENCY USE CASE - O-CU-CP#1 FAILURE (COMPLETE/PARTIAL) Note over operator,ocu2 <B>2</B> SMO decides to move services from O-CU-CP#1 to O-CU-CP#2 End note Autonumber 3 Note over ocu1, odu <<F1>> Cell deactivation / removal between O-CU-CP#1 and O-DU End note odu<->oru : <<FH MPlane>> [tr]x-array-carrier(s) deactivation End loop End loop End group par smo<->odu : <<O1>> TNL configuration to O-DU else smo<->ocu2 : <<O1>> Creation and configuration of cell(s) to O-CU-CP#2 else opt smo<->odu : <<O1>> Cell and carrier(s) configuration to O-DU odu<->oru : <<FH MPlane>> [tr]x-array-carrier(s) configuration and activation else smo<->ocu2: <<O1>> Cell activation O-CU-CP in step 6) ... **Wait until: All above steps are completed successfully** ... The cell(s) associated with O-CU-CP#2 and corresponding carrier(s) are fully operational and ready to deliver services End note smo<->ocu2: <<O1>> SMO collects alarms and performance counters from O-CU-CP#2 Note over smo, ocu2 Active role transition from O-CU-CP#2 to O-CU-CP#1 involves same steps transitioned from O-CU-CP#1 to O-CU-CP#2, except whichever O-CU-CP to be configured and activated. This activity is based on trigger from SMO and/or operator’s decision.

## 7.4 Solution 3: Enhanced network resiliency through O-RU rehoming,
leveraging the SMO framework's transport resiliency management capabilities.

### 7.4.1 Basic objective
This solution describes how the SMO framework monitors FM and PM datas from transport networks and various network functions (O-RU, O-DU, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP) to detect failures and facilitate the rehoming of O-RUs from failed O- DUs to operational ones. The rehoming process involves reconnecting O-RUs with the operational O-DU through either pre-configured transport paths or those configured by the transport network manager, based on policies provided by the SMO. Once alternate transport paths are established, O-RUs connect to the new O-DU via M-plane. SMO configures the necessary transport and cell/carrier resources to restore services. O-RU rehoming can be initiated proactively, based on failure predictions, performance degradation detection, planned maintenance (e.g., O-DU software updates), or resource utilization status (for load balancing or capacity optimization). Alternatively, it can be triggered reactively in response to failures or unexpected events such as disasters. The process is part of SMO-driven automation to minimize service impact during maintenance or network disruptions. In case of scenario based on resource utilization, if network function resources (e.g., CPU, memory, I/O) fall below a defined threshold (e.g., 20%), SMO identifies underutilized O-DUs. For example, during non-peak hours (e.g., 24:00– 05:00) in locations like shopping malls or stadiums, aggregated O-RUs connected to specific O-DUs may experience low utilization. SMO evaluates the target O-DU's capacity to ensure it can accommodate additional O-RUs before rehoming. This enables the shutdown of underutilized O-DUs, saving energy, especially in cloud-native deployments. O-RU rehoming can be utilized during planned maintenance, such as O-DU software upgrades, by redirecting O-RUs to another O-DU. The transport path resiliency ensures minimal service disruption during maintenance or unexpected failures that occur with O-DU(s). Overall, the SMO orchestrates these processes to improve network resiliency as shown in Figure 7.4.1-1.

### 7.4.2 Roles of involved entities
The description below outlines the actors involved: 1) SMO: a. SMO plays a crucial role by managing the transport network manager and providing the necessary policies for transport path configuration, thereby enabling O-RU rehoming. SMO orchestrates the entire O-RU rehoming use case by monitoring PM/FM data, managing transport paths, and coordinating network functions based on the scenarios mentioned in Clause 7.4.1. b. It facilitates high-level decision-making during failures and resiliency scenarios, including managing O-DUs during partial failures, interface disruptions, and planned maintenance. c. SMO enables service recovery through transitioning operations by rehoming the O-RUs from one O- DU to another O-DU (i.e., active to standby), minimizing service disruption for end users. 2) Transport network manager (TN manager): a. The transport network manager acts as a key enabler, assisting the SMO in orchestrating transport path changes and ensuring transport path reconfiguration to facilitate the O-RU rehoming. b. SMO can manage the transport network manager and provide policies/configurations for an appropriate transport path configuration to facilitate O-RU rehoming. 3) O-CU-CP: O-CU receives cell related configurations from SMO and available cell details from O-DU(s). Based on the available resources reported by O-DU and desired availability of cells received from SMO, the O-CU activates or deactivates the cells in the O-DU using F1 interface. 4) O-DUs (Active/Standby O-DUs): a. The O-DU plays a significant role in O-RU rehoming. b. The active O-DU (O-DU#1) serves as the primary unit, manages the cell resources, handling essential lifecycle management and FCAPS functions of the associated O-RUs. It also manages the HDLC stack for AISG communication with Antenna Line Devices (ALDs) connected to the O-RU. c. To ensure resiliency during O-RU rehoming or failure scenarios, a standby O-DU (O-DU#2) is available to take over the services and O-RU operations from the active O-DU (O-DU#1). The standby O-DU can be pre-configured or configured dynamically by the SMO. This takeover occurs in situations such as partial failure of O-DU#1, underutilization of O-DU#1, planned maintenance, or displacement scenarios. 5) O-RU: The O-RU allows for (among others) the operation of [tr]x-array carriers associated with the cell(s) managed by the O-DU. The O-RU plays a crucial role in maintaining the fronthaul and air interfaces, working in coordination with the O-DU to support the recovery of the cells managed by the O-DU.

### 7.4.3 Solution description
The solution describes the O-RU rehoming. This solution leverages transport resiliency to recover user services and O- RU operations, which is detailed in Table 7.4.3-1. rehoming <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use The goal of this solution is for the SMO to manage the O-RU rehoming by leveraging its transport resiliency management capabilities, this is to Goal restore services to the best possible level. This is a service impacting use case. SMO: The SMO enhances network resiliency by collecting FM/PM data to detect or predict failures and then re-homes O-RUs between O- DUs. This process is facilitated by the SMO's management of the transport network and its associated policies. Transport network manager (TN manager): The transport network manager uses SMO policies/configurations to manage transport paths, facilitating O-RU rehoming and enhancing network resiliency. O-CU-CP: O-CU-CP receives cell(s) related configurations from the SMO and cell(s) resources availability information from O-DU(s). Based on Actors and the resource availability reported by the O-DU and the desired cell Roles availability specified by the SMO, the O-CU-CP manages the activation or deactivation of cells in the O-DU via the F1 interface. O-DUs (active/standby O-DUs): O-DUs are responsible for managing cell(s) resources, where these resources are configured by the SMO via O1 interface, as needed. The O-DU is also responsible for managing the O-RU operations, for e.g., configuring [tr]x-array-carriers. Furthermore, the O-DU can support the SMO O-RU rehoming during the scenarios described in Clauses 7.4.1 and 7.4.2. O-RU: The O-RU handles the fronthaul and air interfaces and the reporting of performance counters and failures.
- To ensure service continuity during active O-DU failures or
proactive maintenance, it is assumed that at least one O-DU remains available for O-RUs to re-home to. Assumptions • It is assumed that the SMO have the capability to manage the transport network manager for the transport path configuration.
- SMO subscribed for CM, FM, and PM datas from NFs and transport
network manager.
- A partial failure of the active O-DU (i.e., O-DU#1) occurs.
- Performance degradation is detected in the active O-DU.
- Planned maintenance or displacement of the active O-DU.
Begins when
- Underutilization of the active O-DU.
- Energy saving measures require a O-RU rehoming.
- Other critical issues necessitate O-RU rehoming.
1) Transport network manager is part of the SMO framework. 2) SMO is aware of the O-DU (i.e., O-DU#2) to which the O-RUs to be rehomed. 3) Data reporting to SMO: Network functions (O-RU, O-DU, and O-CU-CP) report Performance Measurement (PM) data (e.g., Preconditions counters) and Fault Management (FM) data (e.g., alarms, notifications) to the SMO via the O1 interface. 4) SMO has the transport network and network topology related details. 5) SMO has an active O1 session with both O-DU#1 and O- DU#2, if O-DU#2 is configured as standby O-DU. BEGIN O-RU REHOMING USE CASE TRIGGER FOR O-RU REHOMING
- SMO analyses CM, FM, and PM data from NFs (O-CU/O-DU/O-
RU) and transport network to assess network conditions and Step 1 (M) identify the need for rehoming. Use Case
- SMO analyses the above reported data to assess the resource
utilization status of NF i.e., O-DU#1. The SMO evaluates O-DU#2's available resources before triggering O- Step 2 (M) RU rehoming. This ensures O-DU#2 can handle the increased load due Use Case to the rehomed O-RUs. SMO decides to rehome the O-RU(s) from O-DU#1 to O-DU#2 based on the trigger scenarios mentioned in both Clause 7.4.1 and “Begins Step 3 (M) When” of this table. Use Case See NOTE 1. The SMO, using the information from Steps 1-3 and based on operator’s requirements, generates the O-RU rehoming policy and configuration Step 4 (O) details for TN manager. Use Case See NOTE 2.
- SMO initiates rehoming in coordination with the Transport Network
Manager.
- The SMO provides the O-RU rehoming policy and/or configuration
details to the TN manager, to enable transport path reconfiguration. Step 5 (O) MGT.0 [i.26], The SMO can leverage its policy, performance management, and


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG1.TR.RIC4NTN-R004-v01.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG1.TR.RIC4NTN-R004-v01.00 O-RAN Work Group 1 (Use Cases and Overall Architecture)"
---

### 5.2.6 Use Case 2-5: NTN UE Location-aware Connected Mode Handover and Inter-cell Traffic Steering and List of figures
List of tables Foreword This Technical Report (TR) has been produced by WG1 of the O-RAN ALLIANCE. The content of the present document is subject to continuing work within O-RAN and may change following formal O-RAN approval. Should the O-RAN ALLIANCE modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released by O-RAN with an identifying change of version date and an increase in version number as follows: version xx.yy.zz where: xx: the first digit-group is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc. (the initial approved document will have xx=01). Always 2 digits with leading zero if needed. yy: the second digit-group is incremented when editorial only changes have been incorporated in the document. Always 2 digits with leading zero if needed. zz: the third digit-group included only in working versions of the document indicating incremental changes during the editing process. External versions never include the third digit-group. Always 2 digits with leading zero if needed. Modal verbs terminology In the present document "shall", "shall not", "should", "should not", "may", "need not", "will", "will not", "can" and "cannot" are to be interpreted as described in clause 3.2 of the O-RAN Drafting Rules (Verbal forms for the expression of provisions). "must" and "must not" are NOT allowed in O-RAN deliverables except when used in direct citation. Introduction Support for Non-Terrestrial Networks (NTN) has been introduced in the 3GPP specifications starting from Release 17. Release has been recently completed, with further enhancements in development as part of Release 19 and expected in the upcoming Release 20. NTN has gained substantial momentum in the telecommunication industry, with the first services in support of IoT and direct- to-device messaging launched, and more deployments including NR-NTN upcoming. NTN presents an emerging opportunity for Open RAN and there are multiple research/development projects and evaluations in progress focusing on NTN implementation leveraging Open RAN technologies. Non-Terrestrial Networks, in particular NGSO constellations, dynamic GSO, as well as hybrid multi-orbit constellations, present complex architectural, control, radio resource management, mobility and orchestration challenges which could be addressed by Open RAN technologies. The O-RAN ALLIANCE is currently developing specifications for O-RAN RIC-enabled optimization and autonomous management of terrestrial networks. Standardization of O-RAN RIC-enabled optimization and autonomous management for NTN and converged NTN+TN interworking deployment scenarios is essential for the NTN operator constellation planning and architectural phases, as a key enabler for their commercial success. This intelligent management of the RAN and its operation is naturally addressed by the Non- and Near-RT RICs. However, while there are many use cases documented for their employment in terrestrial 5G networks, moving the network functions into space brings in a whole new set of challenges and constraints, and opens up completely different novel implementation approaches for the existing O-RAN use cases (such as TS and QoS optimization), as well as a new host of use cases that are specific to NTN. For example to account for the new control signaling features introduced for NTN in 3GPP Releases 17 and (such as SIB19 and timer/distance-based CHO), as well as to address challenges unique to NTNs. This technical report investigates use cases applicable to NTN and presents a gap analysis on possible impacts to WG2 and WG3 specifications of the O-RAN ALLIANCE, in preparation for normative work in WG2 and WG3. Two main groups of use cases are identified:
- Use Case Group #1: How the TN and NTN segments will intelligently cooperate and provide a seamless experience
to the users as they traverse between TN and NTN, and vice-versa, while making sure that the available spectral resources are optimally utilized.
- Use Case Group #2: Once in the NTN segment, how are the users and their traffic flows going to be intelligently
managed by the SNOs such that they are assuring the types of services being sold while accounting for temporospatial variations in motion of the space and aerial assets, weather, spectrum availability, onboard power and hardware constraints, different terminal classes, fast mobility, Line of Sight (LoS), QoS, etc.

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms
Void

## 3.2 Symbols
Void

## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations [given in [i.1] and the following] apply: CHO Conditional Handover EFC Earth Fixed Cell EMC Earth Moving Cell FDD Frequency Division Duplex FR1 Frequency Range 1 GSO Non-Geostationary Orbit HO Handover IoT-NTN Internet of Things Non-Terrestrial Networking ISL Inter-Satellite Link KPI Key Performance Indicator LEO Low Earth Orbit LoS Line of Sight NB-IoT Narrow Band Internet of Things NR-NTN New Radio Non-Terrestrial Networking NTN Non-Terrestrial Network NGSO Non-Geostationary Orbit OTA Over-The-Air PCI Physical Cell Identity QEFC Quasi-Earth-Fixed Cell RIC Radio Intelligent Controller SMTC SSB Measurement Timing Configuration SNO Satellite Network Operator SSB Synchronization Signal Block TDD Time Division Duplex TN Terrestrial Network UAV Unmanned Aerial Vehicle UE User Equipment UML Unified Modeling Language

# 4 NTN development status in standard organizations

## 4.1 3GPP

### 4.1.1 Overview
Non-Terrestrial Networks (NTN) are a significant focus within the 3GPP standards, particularly for integrating satellite into 5G and beyond. Here's a summary of the current development status: 1. Release 15 and 16: Study phase on scenarios, use cases, channel models and impact of NTN to the 5G System, as well as solutions for 5G New Radio (NR) support for Non-Terrestrial Networks. 2. Release 17 and 18: These releases introduced NTN with a transparent (bent-pipe) architecture, where satellites act as radio repeaters without on-board processing capabilities. This approach was chosen for its simplicity and early deployment potential. Both NR-NTN and IoT-NTN are supported. Release 18 introduced support for NR NTN above

# 10 GHz, such as broadband in Ka band.
3. Release 19: This release marks a major milestone with the introduction of a regenerative payload architecture. In this scenario, a complete gNB (Next Generation Node B) is placed on the satellite, allowing for greater integration and flexibility, and opening up new constellation topologies and use cases). This architecture supports packet processing directly on the satellite, enabling features like improved mobility management. 4. Release 20: The next release is currently in the planning phase and a 3GPP RAN workshop in RAN#106 (12/2024) discussed potential NTN features for Rel-20. The initial work plan for Rel-20 was decided in RAN#108 (06/2025). Technological Challenges: The development of NTN involves unique challenges such as high Doppler shifts, longer propagation delays, and larger cell sizes due to the high altitudes of satellites. Enhanced beam management and regulatory considerations are also crucial. Most of these challenges are already covered by Rel-17 and 18. Future Prospects: The ongoing work aims to further integrate NTN with terrestrial networks, enhancing global coverage and resilience. The regenerative payload architecture is expected to support advanced functionalities like "store and forward," which allows satellites to store data temporarily and forward it when connectivity is restored, and also UE- satellite-UE communication with reduced latency.

### 4.1.2 R17/R18/R19 work items for NTN
Release 17: 1. Transparent payload architecture with FDD systems. 2. Adaptation to physical and access layer aspects, radio access network, system architecture, radio resource management, and RF requirements. 3. Support for NTN-NR (5G New Radio (NR)) based satellite access in FR1 bands for handheld devices. 4. Support for NTN-IoT (NB-IoT and eMTC) based satellite access for massive IoT and handheld messaging use cases. Release 18: 1. Enhancements for NR-NTN and IoT-NTN, especially the time and location based conditional handover (CHO) for mobility enhancements. 2. Enablers for NR based satellite access in bands above 10 GHz (including introduction of Ka-band, see 3GPP TS 38.108 and 38.101-5). 3. Support for fixed and moving platforms (e.g., aircraft, vessels, UAVs) and building-mounted devices. Release 19 1. Downlink Coverage Enhancements with CD-SSB periodicity relaxation and enhanced beam-hopping support 2. Uplink capacity enhancements. 3. Support for a non-terrestrial network architecture with 5G system functions on board the NTN vehicle (regenerative payloads), including the possibility for inter-satellite links (ISL). 4. Use of RedCap devices within FR1 NTN. 5. Store & Forward (S&F) operation based on regenerative payload to support non-complete constellations. 6. Specification of Ku-band for NTN operations 7. Support for half duplex operation in TDD and FDD scenarios for IoT-NTN 8. New L- and S- frequency band definitions 9. Over-The-Air (OTA) antenna requirements and performance framework for NTN

## 4.2 O-RAN

### 4.2.1 Overview
To the group’s best knowledge, no approved contributions or normative work on NTN exist so far in O-RAN ALLIANCE, but there have been some requests for the definition of new WIs and research areas in nGRG.

### 4.2.2 Study and work items for NTN
The following proposals have been submitted so far: 1. New feature work for NTN deployments enabled by RIC. 2. Study on open TN-NTN architecture based on O-RAN 3. Research for requirements on O-RAN based satellite clustering for NTN in nGRG 4. Work for regenerative NTN support in O-RAN in WG1 UCTG Key NTN use cases analysis in O-RAN enabled by RIC

## 5.1 Use Case Group 1: TN and NTN interworking and cooperation

### 5.1.1 Overview
In most cases, these NTN networks and services are not anticipated to be completely standalone offerings, but rather intended at least in part as a complement to Terrestrial Networks, for example to provide coverage extension in white spots and hard to reach areas, 3D coverage at altitude, or a layer of resiliency. In fact, the ability for NTN to eliminate or alleviate coverage gaps in the Terrestrial Network was one of the key motivations for the introduction of NTN in 3GPP since the beginning. Based on the current market trends, it appears NTN deployment motivations will in most cases fall into one of the following categories:
- Existing Satellite Network Operators (SNOs) who are looking to serve the NTN market in addition to or in evolution
of their existing non-3GPP satellite services.
- New entrant SNOs who are seeking to uniquely provide NTN services.
- Mobile Network Operators (MNOs) who are seeking to extend their network via NTN.
- New entrant MNOs who are seeking provide homogenous TN and NTN coverage
Therefore, it is expected that many MNOs may seek to extend their own Terrestrial Network services via NTN, however the current market trends indicate that they will likely not seek to deploy and operate their own satellites, but rather form agreements with one or multiple NTN SNOs, who will provide coverage over areas of interest on behalf of their partner MNOs. For this to be achieved, the MNO’s and SNO’s networks will need to interact and coordinate with one another at some level. The required degree of interaction and information sharing required between the two operator domains will depend on the requirements of the specific use case and on the depth of integration between the two segments. This interaction is essential in order to for example make the NTN network aware of where the boundaries of the terrestrial network exist, share handover preparation information, reselection targets, etc. and conversely make the terrestrial network aware of when an NTN is available to its users. The following clauses describe some of the use cases that fall within the category of TN and NTN interworking and cooperation and that have been grouped under Use Case Group 1 (UCG#1).

### 5.1.2 Use Case 1-1: TN-NTN Coverage Information Sharing

#### 5.1.2.1 Use Case Description
In order for an MNO and their partner SNO(s) to be able to support efficient complementary coverage via NTN, the TN network may need to be aware of the available NTN coverage footprint, and vice versa. This can include current coverage (i.e. already active) as well as potential coverage (i.e. not yet active, but possible), and will need to include some details of the coverage to be provided (e.g. applicable NTN cells, their configuration and corresponding serving satellite ephemeris). Depending on a number of operational factors and system constraints, such as feeder link availability, power and radio resource availability of the satellites forming the NTN constellation, the active cells, allocated resources (and thus capacity), as well as the specific coverage areas that an NTN operator chooses to serve or not serve may change over time. In addition, due to orbital precession, the specific satellite(s) serving a given cell coverage area on the ground at any point of time (e.g. in a scenario with Earth-fixed or quasi-Earth-fixed Cells) also change over time. Thus there is a need for the NTN segment to be able to communicate this information to the TN segment, such that the TN segment can be aware of which NTN cells are available or might become available in the future, as well as update the information being broadcast in SIB19/SIB31 messages in terrestrial edge cells. Likewise, in the reverse direction, an NTN operator may normally not be aware of the footprint, topology, configuration or even presence of terrestrial networks within the coverage of an NTN, unless this information has been separately sourced or disclosed by the MNO. Whilst some of this information can be shared at network planning by the TN MNO to the NTN SNO, the TN MNO network is expected to evolve over time, potentially also dynamically via the introduction of network energy saving (NES) techniques, and thus may need to be updated at runtime. In scenarios where the NTN coverage may totally or partially overlap with the TN coverage or its edge, by having awareness of the TN footprint or of its edge, the NTN operator may be able to selectively deactivate NTN coverage in overlapping areas, in order to save system power, capacity, or to enable coverage in other locations. In scenarios with no overlap (e.g. due to TN spectrum reuse in space), the NTN operator may need to adjust the NTN coverage edge to match as closely as possible the TN coverage edge, at least for certain frequencies.

#### 5.1.2.2 Problem statement and challenges
In order to fulfil the requirements of these scenarios, the TN and NTN segments would need to have a method of exchanging at least the minimum necessary information on their respective coverage footprints, required to fulfil complementary coverage functionalities. The current 3GPP- and O-RAN-specified interfaces between operator domains, such as the roaming interfaces and other interfaces at the Core network and RAN level (e.g. Xn), do not support sharing of this type of information. Sharing of neighbor cell information, including neighbor relationships, and other coverage related information within a single network domain (e.g. within a TN or an NTN) is typically expected at least in part to be addressed by interfaces such as X2/Xn. However, in the interaction between TN and NTN this is either not sufficient (e.g. due to lack of the necessary primitives), or outright not possible, such as in the scenario where SNO and MNO, with both networks assumed to be aligned with 3GPP and O-RAN architecture, are two distinct operator domains, where inter-operator Xn is currently not contemplated (or implemented) and presents potential feasibility issues. In addition, both the TN footprint, topology and configuration, as well as the NTN footprint, topology and configuration, are expected to be continuously evolving and dynamic in nature, especially as operators (MNOs and SNOs alike) increasingly target maximization of energy and deployment efficiencies. Therefore, traditional manual or static mechanisms of sharing this information are not going to be fit for purpose, and there is instead a need for automated mechanisms that can dynamically provide updates on the changes to the coverage in a timely manner (order of seconds at least), as soon as they happen. It is also important that this sharing of information is performed securely and with a fine-grained level of control on the type and amount of information that is respectively shared, at any given instant of time. Therefore, there is a gap and an identified need for a secure, programmatic and reactive mechanism for TN and NTN networks in different operator domains to interface and interact, for the purpose of selectively sharing coverage related information.

### 5.1.3 Use Case 1-2: TN-NTN Mobility and Service Continuity

#### 5.1.3.1 Use Case Description
This use case covers the support for mobility and service continuity between a terrestrial network (TN) and a Non-Terrestrial Network (NTN). One of the key value propositions for Non-Terrestrial Networks is to enable complementary coverage for terrestrial networks, and to help MNOs fulfil coverage gaps. As such, enabling or facilitating mobility and service continuity between the TN and the NTN and vice-versa is a key requirement. Whilst 3GPP defines the procedures at RAN level for TN-NTN idle and connected mode mobility and stipulates the need for sharing of coverage and satellite assistance information (e.g. Ephemeris), the 3GPP specifications do not explicitly address how this information is shared, and further how these procedures are coordinated when the TN and NTN are in different operator domains. This use case thus describes the requirements, expected procedure and possible solution to address these remaining aspects in respect to TN-NTN mobility and service continuity. In order to be able to support TN-NTN mobility, the TN RAN needs to be aware of the NTN coverage footprint, and specifically which satellite(s) are or will be serving a given coverage area at any point in time, and which are or may be the applicable neighbor NTN cells, with their respective configurations. In 3GPP NTN Rel-17+ systems, some of this information, alongside other details such as Ephemeris of the satellites, is expected as per the 3GPP specifications to be delivered via SIB19 or SIB31 into the TN cells bordering or overlapping with the NTN coverage area. However, in order for the information to be delivered to the TN cells, the terrestrial network has to first be aware of the information in the first place. This information may in many cases need to come from an external source to the MNO network (e.g. an SNO network). In addition, there may be another scenario in which an MNO may wish to provide Additionally, when it comes to evaluating the candidate handover or reselection opportunities to an NTN cell from a TN cell, there may be a subset of satellites which are better suited as target candidates, and there is a need to study how the O-RAN RIC/SMO architecture might be leveraged in optimizing the selection, for example by tailoring the SMTC list and the NTN- NeighCellConfigList provided in SIB19 to include only the satellite candidates that actually make for good handover or reselection targets, in some cases based on the specific UE service requirements on RAN and line-of-sight (LoS) conditions. 5.1.3. 2 Problem statement and challenges Whilst 3GPP specifies mechanisms for TN-NTN mobility and service continuity, many of the capabilities and information exchanges required to implement said mobility, and to more in general facilitate the seamless interworking between TN and NTN are currently not addressed by 3GPP specifications, and could on the other hand be effectively addressed by O-RAN. In order to support mobility from TN to NTN, the TN network must be aware at least of the following information, and their applicability in time: ● Satellite assistance information (e.g. Ephemeris) of the target NTN systems, satellites and cells available for handover or reselection ● Cell topology and availability of the NTN cells neighboring or overlapping the TN coverage edge, that could be candidate target cells for measurement, reselection or handover ● Cell configuration of the NTN cells neighboring or overlapping the TN coverage edge, necessary for measurement configurations, reselection policy configuration and handover triggering In addition, the network-initiated Connected Mode handovers must also be explicitly triggered by the network, which must be able to: ● Request measurements to the target NTN network, to identify HO cell candidates ● Request HO triggering to the target gNB In a terrestrial network scenario or an intra-operator TN-NTN scenario, many of these capabilities are or can be enabled by the X2/Xn interface. However, X2/Xn may not be feasible in an inter-domain/inter-operator environment. In addition, given that between two operators, the network topology might be partially or completely obfuscated, there is no way for the Source gNB to even identify which target gNB endpoint (e.g. gNB-CU) to address the measurement and handover requests, as the X2/Xn interface exists between individual eNBs/gNBs. Thus, there would be no mechanisms for signaling of neighbour relationships, including for measurement configurations. Furthermore, the TN may not even be aware of the neighbour NTN cells (esp. for candidate cells that are not active, in systems deploying selective coverage and/or beam hopping). Therefore, these challenges arise with this scenario and the lack of a suitable interface, for example: ● No awareness by the TN of the target NTN cell configuration (e.g. frequencies, PCI, etc) required to configure measurements, HO triggers, Reselection policies. ● No awareness of the gNB topology in the target network (either TN or NTN), and thus no awareness of which gNB to even establish an Xn connection or trigger an HO request or measurement request. ● With 3GPP NTN R17+, the TN might not be aware of Satellite Ephemeris (SIB19/SIB31 content), required by the UE to perform UL pre-compensation ● The NTN coverage may not be active (or may be configured with insufficient duty cycle/capacity) in the target area that the UEs are about to move to (satellite coverage is limited and must be selective) ● The NTN may not have any awareness of incoming load, QoS requirements or UE capabilities ● In 3GPP R19 NTN, SSB Periodicity could be relaxed (e.g. up to 160ms). This can impact UE sync performance/reliability and may need specific SMTC configuration for measurement before TN to NTN handover ● UE capability signaling is very heavy. Forcing the NTN to perform UE capability exchange from scratch may have adverse impact on NTN capacity ● Letting the UE/network declare RLF and Detach the UE, would lead to a network selection/access from scratch, which creates service interruption and unnecessary signalling load. ● The NTN network may not be aware of which (or any) UE in TN are about to be handed over (or reselect to) NTN ● In the reverse direction (NTN to TN), no awareness by the NTN of the target TN cell configuration (e.g. frequencies, PCI, etc) required to configure measurements, HO triggers, Reselection policies

### 5.1.4 Use Case 1-3: Request of NTN coverage for Disaster Response

#### 5.1.4.1 Use Case Description
In some cases a Terrestrial MNO might wish to explicitly request NTN coverage in a given area, either to fulfil a coverage gap, or to respond to a total or partial outage of the terrestrial network, such as in a disaster scenario. This same capability could also be used simply to request the NTN to allocate additional capacity in a given area, in order to respond to an expected or witnessed increase in demand. Scenario 1) TN MNO1 identifies a coverage gap in its coverage, or is interested in providing additional coverage overlay, and thus requests NTN coverage to specific target geographical area to NTN SNO1. Scenario 2) TN MNO1 already has active NTN coverage by NTN SNO1 in a given target geographical area, but identifies a need to allocate additional capacity (e.g. due to an upcoming event). Scenario 3) During a disaster scenario (e.g. a hurricane), cell towers of TN MNO1 in a given area are affected by an outage (e.g. power outage) and are thus unavailable. TN MNO1 requests NTN coverage (in dedicated or shared spectrum) to the affected target geographical area to NTN SNO1. The scenarios from 1 to 3 are applicable also when an MNO has a commercial relationship or wishes to establish a commercial relationship with more than one NTN SNO partner. In addition to the basic coverage or capacity request, a TN MNO may wish to communicate additional information to their NTN SNO partner, for example:
- Expected load or last-known load
- Required capacity
- QoS information and/or Slice policies for specific services that may be required (e.g. public safety, emergency
messaging and/or calling)
- List of UEs for prioritization/QoS policy
- Pre-sharing of UE capabilities mapped to explicit list of UEs
- Interference thresholds and coverage edge contours or other constraints (e.g. to prevent interference, in case of
terrestrial spectrum reuse)
- Desired cell configuration parameters
- In case of terrestrial spectrum reuse or other form of spectrum lease, information on the spectrum available for
deployment and any configuration requirements.

#### 5.1.4.1 Problem Statement
Current methods for an MNO to request NTN coverage from an SNO are entirely reliant on traditional office IT communication (e.g. emails, meetings), and require extensive discussions and pre-agreements not only at the commercial level, but also at the technical level, as a pre-requisite. With current methods, derivation of technical parameters for requests of either complementary coverage or capacity rely on extensive offline simulations performed by both parties respectively. These simulations are usually based on abstracted knowledge of the network, and relatively limited advance knowledge of the respective systems, also due to confidentiality constraints. From these simulations and plans, a notional NTN network plan is usually derived and agreed by both parties, via extensive discussion. In some cases, the simulations used to derive the plan may not even be fully reflective of the up-to-date conditions of the network (mostly because they are generated not from the live network, but from offline system-level simulator toolsets), nor of the real-world practical conditions in which the system will operate. In addition, any subsequent update usually needs to go through a similar formal cycle of discussions, simulations, agreements and formal approvals, de-facto preventing the enactment of any reactivity to changing requirements or events in responsive timeframes. In some cases, due to the relatively “static” nature of the plan and of the need to pre-plan in advance, often with a high level of detail, this can also lead to inflexibility in any regulatory filings submitted, where exact static values may be specified or filed for, and thus require an update to the regulatory filings in case some parameters are altered or optimized. As a consequence, the resulting plan exhibits a few unfortunate byproducts: 1) Staleness: The NTN network plan derived is relatively static and represents a snapshot of the respective systems at a given moment of time, which may become stale over time, due to being unable to automatically reflect any subsequent changes or optimizations in either the MNO terrestrial network coverage, or the SNO’s NTN coverage. 2) Immutability and lack of reactivity: Changes in the NTN network plan are difficult and slow to introduce, and not only it cannot easily accommodate either changes in the actual respective network topologies, capabilities and plans, but it is also unable to be adapted in responsive time frames, to react to changing or unforeseen needs by either SNO or MNO, such as need to provide Disaster Coverage in response to an outage, spikes in demand or other time- sensitive events. 3) Poor accuracy: Due to the simulation environments used to derive the technical parameters of the plan, and due to issues with confidentiality, the plan may not reflect the accurate and up-to-date state, capabilities or parameters of the live network, reducing the accuracy of representation. Its accuracy also to the physical live environment and its interaction with terrain, weather and other factors is also very limited. 4) Conservativeness and sub-optimality: Due to the above issues, the plans are usually defined with relatively (sometimes extremely) conservative margins, in order to avoid, or at least reduce, any risks of disruption to user experience. Inevitably, this also results in significant sub-optimality. These issues could be resolved via a form of automated and programmatic mechanism, enabling the exchange of requests (as well as advertisements of availability) for coverage and capacity between different entities, such as for example between one MNO and one or more SNOs to provide NTN coverage and capacity in reaction to changing demand or to an unforeseen even, such as a disaster scenario. There are currently no existing interfaces, APIs or otherwise programmatic and/or automated mechanisms to support either static, semi-static or let alone dynamic requests for coverage and/or capacity between different operator entities within either the 3GPP or the O-RAN specifications. Such requirements and concepts have been raised and discussed from time to time, at least within 3GPP in the context of NTN, but have never so far been introduced. In particular, there is currently no satisfactory mechanism to satisfy certain mission-critical use cases for the public good, such as respond to the need to supply Disaster Coverage via NTN in response to total or partial outages to parts or totality of an MNO’s terrestrial network within meaningfully responsive timeframes from the occurrence of an event (e.g. seconds or at most minutes).

### 5.1.5 Use Case Group 1: Summary, Proposed Solution, Benefits and Impact to the O-RAN Architecture

#### 5.1.5.1 Summary of Gap Analysis
The previous clauses describe a number of use cases that involve interaction between the TN and NTN networks and summarize the current gaps and required interactions. Due to the commonalities between the different use cases, it was decided to address possible solutions in a single, common clause. The following clause thus analyzes possible common solutions to address the aforementioned use cases. From analyzing the different use cases in Group 1, we can also summarize a list of requirements that a possible solution must be able to fulfil. In all the previously discussed use cases of Group 1, it is assumed that the TN and NTN segments could be either part of the same operator domain or, more typically, part of two different and independent operator domains. It is also possible that, within a single operator domain, the operator may choose to maintain domain separation between the TN and NTN segments. Any new solution(s) must be capable of addressing all such cases. In addition, the solution should not be limited to a one-to-one relationship between TN and NTN segments, but should also enable one-to-many relationships, for example to support the case where an MNO may have multiple SNO partners, and vice- versa the case where an SNO may have multiple MNO partners/customers, but also the case where multiple separate TN and NTN segments exist within a single operator, as separate administrative domains. The key requirements for the solution can thus be summarized as follows: 1) Allow interaction between TN and NTN segments in the same operator, assigned to a single administrative domain 2) Allow interaction between TN and NTN segments in the same operator, assigned to multiple separate administrative domains 3) Allow interaction between TN and NTN segments in different operators and independent operator administrative domains 4) Allow interaction between one TN segment and multiple NTN segments (in the same or different operator domains) 5) Allow interaction between one NTN segment and multiple TN segments (in the same or different operator domains) 6) Allow sharing of NTN radio cell coverage information from the NTN to the TN 7) Allow sharing of TN radio cell coverage information from the TN to the NTN 8) Allow sharing of cell configuration between the TN and NTN 9) Allow sharing of NTN satellite assistance information with the TN (e.g. in the form of satellite Ephemeris for SIB19/SIB31) 10) Allow secure sharing of information between different operator trust domains 11) Allow dynamically-selective sharing of information across TN and NTN based on respective operator’s control 12) Allow advertisement of network capabilities 13) Allow requesting of NTN coverage to one or more target locations in 3D space and time 14) Allow requesting of NTN capacity to one or more existing target NTN coverage areas 15) Allow sharing of load information between networks 16) Allow sharing of UE capability information between networks 17) Allow sharing of QoS and Slice policy information between networks, including for specific UE to be prioritized (e.g. list of UEs) 18) Allow sharing of information necessary to configuration of measurements for mobility between TN and NTN (in both directions) 19) Allow triggering of measurements from the partner network (TN or NTN), e.g. in preparation for a mobility event 20) Allow triggering of mobility events for Idle and Connected mode mobility between TN and NTN (in both directions) 21) Allow sharing of acknowledgements and status information for previously advertised or requested capabilities The requirements described above cannot be presently satisfied by any existing interface, architectural element or procedure in the current 3GPP or O-RAN Architecture, at least for the case where the TN and NTN segment are operated by different entities (e.g. different operators) or part of different administrative domains. The O-RAN architecture and RIC/SMO complex, however, do offer a unique framework for management of radio coverage in an operator domain, to complement the 3GPP specification and address challenges not addressed by 3GPP, and are either already capable, or are expected to be capable (e.g. in the case of NTN) of accessing the required information in the respective operator networks. They therefore offer a unique opportunity to introduce a viable solution for TN-NTN radio network coverage level inter-working and cooperation, if a suitable mechanism to enable communication between the TN and NTN domains can be identified.

#### 5.1.5.2 Proposed Solution: New TN-NTN Interface
In order to satisfy the requirements outlined above, for the scenario in which the TN and NTN segments are operated by different operators, an MNO and an SNO respectively, or under otherwise different administrative domains, a potential proposed solution is the introduction of a new and novel O-RAN interface or API between the two operator domains that is suitably designed to cross the inter-operator domain trust boundary. If we assume that both the TN and NTN are respectively adopting the O-RAN architecture and thus both have their own respective Near/Non-RT RIC and SMO deployments, the new interface could be designed to exist between the MNO’s and SNO’s respective Near/Non-RT RICs or SMOs, facilitating different levels of information sharing. Such capability and interface are not currently specified or contemplated by the O-RAN Architecture and Specifications, and therefore it is identified as a gap. Overall, this cross-operator mode of operation and interaction was not envisaged by 3GPP or the O-RAN Alliance previously and would require investigation into how the O-RAN architecture may need to evolve, potentially with the specification of one or more new interfaces. After several discussions on at which layer should this new interface exist, and considerations for various candidate options, it seems that the most likely suitable approach may be to specify this interface between the Non-RT RICs or SMOs. However, the possibility of supporting a new interface between the Near-RT RICs could also be considered and should be further studied if the requirements for use cases demand it.

#### 5.1.5.3 Impact to the O-RAN Architecture
This clause of the Technical Report outlines different architecture options for TN-NTN interworking depending on whether the two segments are operated by the same or a different operator (or different administrative entities within the same operator), and considers as a solution the specification of at least a new interface between an NTN Non-RT RIC or SMO and a TN Non- RT RIC or SMO, at least for the case where TN and NTN segment are operated by different entities. The impact can thus be summarized as follows:
- Case 1 (TN and NTN operated by different entities): Introduction of a new East/West API interface or service
between Non-RT RICs or SMOs of the two operators.
- Case 2 (TN and NTN operated by the same entity): Reuse of the existing A1 interface reference point and
augmentation of the A1 and the RIC/SMO layer with procedures and information relating to TN-NTN information sharing. For the scenario in which the TN and NTN segment are operated by different operators, an MNO and an SNO respectively, or part of different administrative domains, a potential proposed solution is to introduce a new East/West API interface or service between the SNO’s NTN Non-RT RIC and the MNO’s TN Non-RT RIC. Via such interface, the TN Non-RT RIC and the NTN Non-RT RIC could exchange information regarding the respective coverage areas as well as other information as required for mobility and service continuity procedures. network segments operated by different operators (e.g. an MNO and an SNO respectively), and highlights the potential new interface reference point between Non-RT RICs of the two operators. It is important to note that today some control and management functions may still be supported outside of the O-RAN architecture framework as they are not currently covered by any O-RAN function and are opaque to the O-RAN architecture. These have been represented in the figure below as “Non- O-RAN NTN Functions” and are currently outside of the scope of O-RAN and of this Technical Report. Similarly then, the interface between the Non-O-RAN NTN Functions and NTN gNB is currently a bespoke interface, which is also outside of the scope of O-RAN and of this Technical Report. For the case in which the TN and NTN segment are operated by the same operating entity, the existing architecture and interfaces could be reused, whereby a single Non-RT RIC and SMO may exist and assume the responsibility of managing both the TN and NTN segments of the network. The existing mechanisms of interaction between the Non-RT RIC and the Near-RT RIC via the A1 interface could in principle thus be reused, with the assumption that the operator’s Non-RT RIC would have multiple A1 interface associations with one or more TN Near-RT RICs, as well as one or more NTN Near-RT RICs. The common Non-RT RIC could then supply information to both the TN and NTN Near-RT RICs in the shape of A1 policies or enrichment information, with appropriate extensions to the standardized data types, yet to be determined. operator (e.g. either an MNO with an NTN component, or an SNO with a TN component). The topology of both TN and NTN segments follows the existing O-RAN architecture and reuses the existing O-RAN interfaces, such as the A1 reference point. Similarly to the inter-operator case, it is expected that today some control and management functions may still be supported outside of the O-RAN architecture framework as they are not currently covered by any O-RAN function and are opaque to the O-RAN architecture. These have been represented in the figure below as “Non-O-RAN NTN Functions” and are currently outside of the scope of O-RAN and of this Technical Report. Similarly then, the interface between the Non-O-RAN NTN Functions and NTN gNB is currently a bespoke interface, which is also outside of the scope of O-RAN and of this Technical Report.

#### 5.1.5.4 Benefits
There are several benefits to this new proposed interaction, some of which have been captured in the Use Cases of the Use Case Group 1, and include the enablement of TN to NTN and NTN to TN mobility and service continuity scenarios, such as reselection and handover between the TN and the NTN and vice-versa, the enablement of the ability to request NTN coverage in a number of operator scenarios, as well as opportunities for higher levels of optimization, for example in how coverage is provided between the TN and NTN segment, and in ensuring truly complementary and mutually-beneficial and optimal coverage between the TN and NTN segments.

## 5.2 Use Case Group 2: Intra-NTN Mobility Use Cases

### 5.2.1 Overview
This clause describes use cases applicable within the NTN, in particular, use cases related to aspects of mobility and intra-system service continuity. Mobility events in an NTN constellation may be driven by a number of factors and impairments that are specific to NTNs, in addition to typical UE mobility requirements, such as satellite (i.e. network node) mobility as well as delay and Doppler, spectrum and power constraints and others such as line-of-sight. The following are some examples of key mobility scenarios that can be expected in an NTN system:
- Feeder link management (e.g. switching, load balancing, etc)
- Satellite mobility
- Satellite load balancing and selection
- UE Mobility
- Inter-satellite Link (ISL) mobility
3GPP Releases 17, 18 and 19 introduced new procedures specifically to address NR-NTN and IoT NTN mobility management, that are designed to take into account such NTN-specific impairments and influencing factors. However, whilst the procedures are specified in detail in the 3GPP specification, their actual implementation and the full implications from a network architecture and implementation are not stipulated and are instead left up to operator and/or vendor implementation choice. This chapter analyses a number of mobility use cases that fall in the categories listed above and that leverage existing 3GPP procedures as of Release 18, within the context of the O-RAN architecture as a possible implementation, in a bid to efficiently allocate the limited resources of the NTN system whilst maintaining and maximizing fulfilment of user service requirements. Lastly, an initial assessment of the possible impact of the introduction of such use cases to the O-RAN architecture and specifications is made.

### 5.2.2 Use Case 2-1: Connected mode NTN inter-gNB handover (HO) due to Satellite mobility

#### 5.2.2.1 Use Case Description
This use case covers the use of an NTN near-RT RIC and xApps to optimize the implementation of inter-satellite inter-gNB Connected Mode Handover (HO) within an NTN Non-Geostationary Orbit (NGSO) constellation, exemplified by a Low Earth Orbit (LEO) constellation, driven by satellite mobility. This use case is in principle formulated in a way that is largely agnostic of the NTN gNB architecture (e.g. Transparent vs Regenerative). In this scenario, users are assumed to be practically stationary or slow moving (e.g. handheld), and the mobility events are driven by satellite motion. This scenario use case description assumes Earth-fixed cells (EFC) or quasi-Earth-fixed cells (QEFC), but is applicable also to Earth-moving cells (EMC). Many upcoming 5G NTN constellations will be deployed in Low Earth Orbit, where a significant number of satellites are needed in order to achieve ubiquitous global coverage. LEO constellations are highly-mobile, and as such UEs may experience frequent handovers from one satellite to the next. In addition, in dense constellations, multiple candidate satellites may be able to serve a given coverage area, introducing the need for the network to select the appropriate target satellite to serve the incoming users. This could be influenced by a number of factors, such as feeder link availability, expected satellite visibility period, maximum number of concurrent beams, on-board power limitations, UE TX power and antenna gain, line of sight, spectrum constraints and more. snapshot of the moment where HO opportunity is available with 4 satellites in view (right) The example scenario in Figure 5.2.2.1-1 shows part of an NTN LEO Walker Delta constellation with four satellites in view, two of which co-planar and two cross-planar. The projected satellite orbital trajectories are shown in cyan. As a simplifying assumption, each satellite is associated with a single feeder link (shown in dotted green) to a given gateway (represented by red dots associated to the green dotted lines) and a single gNB broadcasting a single PCI. Feeder link mobility is thus not considered for the sake of simplicity. This allows this use case to focus on user link mobility, and makes the scenario applicable to both Transparent and Regenerative architectures. Co-planar satellites are numbered with the same most-significant digit, whereas cross-planar satellites are assigned a different most-significant digit.

# A UE located in Spain is currently served by satellite 11, which forms the user link to the UE (in yellow) and is supported by a feeder link (in green) to a ground station in central Italy. As shown by the orbital trajectory, in some time, satellite 11 will be
approaching the end of its viable service time for the target UE (e.g. due to low elevation, scan angle or link budget). Simultaneously, the remaining three satellites 12, 21 and 31 will approach the UE coverage area and become eligible to place a beam (and a cell) in the UE’s location, and they therefore offer potentially viable candidate handover opportunities. Figure 5.2.2.1-1 shows the possible candidate satellites and UE service links at the instant in which all satellites are in principle eligible to serve the coverage area. An NTN Near-RT RIC and an associated NTN xApp could be tasked with taking all the various factors into account and driving the decision of which of the 3 available candidate handover satellites should start serving the UE once its currently serving satellite becomes unsuitable. In addition, the previously mentioned power and spectrum constraints present a further optimization opportunity to the network and xApp: for example one of the available satellites could deliver the requested level of service to the UE while consuming fewer resources than another satellite. Lastly, in a scenario with several UEs in a given coverage area, the RIC and xApp must make a handover decision that accounts for the requirements and conditions of all the users in the coverage area, which may create the need for trade-off decisions.

#### 5.2.2.2 Problem statement and challenges
The first part of the problem statement is relatively trivial. In order to support NR NTN scenarios aligned with 3GPP Release and above, the Near-RT RIC and xApp must be able to configure the required NTN-specific measurement configurations, as well as the necessary handover triggers. In Release 17, a new SSB Measurement Timing Configuration (SMTC) specific to NR NTN, namely SMTC4 (SSB-MTC4List- r17), has been introduced. In addition, the NTN cells must be able to broadcast Satellite Assistance information, in particular Satellite Ephemeris, in the form of SIB19, containing serving and neighbor satellite and cell information. Furthermore, in order to trigger a HO, the gNB must be able to include specific SIB19 content in the HO triggers. This implicitly requires the NTN Near-RT RIC and xApp(s) to be aware of the constellation Ephemeris, the serving and target satellite timing information, as well have the ability to deliver the necessary configurations to the O-CU/DU. The second aspect of the problem is related to coordination of the HO across multiple satellites (and cells, potentially gNBs), in order to hand the UE over to the best satellite. Several criteria and KPIs may be taken into account to select the best target satellite, and, depending on the service requirements set by the SNO, the NTN RIC may have to either privilege one or more specific KPIs at the expense of others, or to perform a multi-constraint evaluation by ensuring adequate and balanced satisfaction of several different KPIs at once. In terrestrial networks, assessment of handover opportunities is almost entirely focused on KPIs affecting the user link, and would typically be driven by UE measuring the SSBs of relevant neighbour cells, and then the gNB or Near-RT RIC monitoring for SMTC-configured measurement events where the quality on a neighbour cell signal would exceed a given threshold, while that of the serving cell would drop below another threshold, such as is the case in the A3 event. Measurement reporting, based on SSBs but also CSI-RS, is also very important for channel estimation in terrestrial networks to aid link adaptation, primarily due to urban deployments where the various channel state and effects of multi-path propagation are highly and frequently variable and difficult to predict, except perhaps at the cell edge. In NTN deployments, on the other hand, limited multipath effects due to focus on outdoor environments, and the predictable movement of the satellite in the sky coupled with accurate weather forecast data make it such that the user link channel state by itself is much more steady and predictable, driven mostly by satellite motion, and can thus be quite reliably modelled and estimated. The overall link and HO candidate selection is, however, on the other hand, affected by a number of other factors, many of which are completely opaque to the gNB and cannot be addressed with measurements. Some examples include: ● Ability to sustain the link vector for the duration of the satellite pass (or UE call flow) - influenced by a number of factors including feeder link availability ● Available on-board battery power ● Overall network load balancing goals ● Cleanest channel, and thus best achievable MCS ● Feeder link availability - e.g. due to weather or other system constraints such as antenna field of regard and LoS to the satellite. ● Line of sight (LoS) on the user link (but not only) Feeder link availability is a particularly interesting example as it is chiefly important in transparent NTN deployments where, even in FR1 user link systems, the NR-Uu waveform has to traverse also the feeder link between the satellite and the ground station, which often utilises higher frequencies (e.g Ku, Ka-, Q- or V-band) that are notably susceptible to weather attenuation, and which makes it such that the feeder link directly impacts the NR-Uu user link radio interface. The feeder link behavior is not specified in 3GPP, this effectively makes it opaque to the gNB. In addition, due to the dynamic nature of the system and of the external effects (e.g. weather) that might intervene, the impact to the NR-Uu user link introduced by the feeder link might not be completely known in advance by any of the individual gNBs at the moment of handover, due to the fact that a feeder link might not even have been established yet. Continuous satellite movement also makes it such that the channel quality is, albeit predictably, always continually and steadily changing, driven effectively by gNB motion, unlike in terrestrial networks where, if the UE is stationary, the base station is in most cases static. Not only might the different satellites and their respective feeder and user link vectors, propagating through variable weather and atmospheric conditions, result in varying channel qualities and therefore attainable MCS regimes, but they can also result in varying viable service times before either the user link or the service link becomes unsustainable, due to factors such as Line-of- Sight (LoS) or minimum elevation angles due to field-of-view (FoV) and obstructions. Thus, serving or neighbour cell signal measurements prior to the handover can by themselves be at least partially misleading in NTN, since they do not indicate much about either the end-to-end channel quality including the feeder link and the satellite itself (e.g. on transparent systems), channel state evolution throughout the satellite pass, or future vectors between each satellite and the UEs being served, or expected to be served in the future (e.g. impacted by LoS effects, such as mountain ranges which might block LoS from a given area and UEs or feeder links to a given satellite at any future point of the service pass). For example, for Satellite 31 in Figure 5.2.2.1-1, a feeder link is formed with a ground station in the Azores. As the satellite propagates due North-East, it may witness its current ground station fall out of view before the UE does, thus requiring a feeder link handover. While feeder link is not a 3GPP-specified element of the network, mobility procedures associated with it may still require intervention from the RAN, and, depending on network implementation, may potentially result in an L3 Handover as well for the UE, leading to potential service discontinuity and signaling overhead. Furthermore, since the NTN link is often more constrained compared to a terrestrial link, an excessive reliance on user link signalling and UE measurement reports may create significant overhead on the link, negatively affecting user throughput and system capacity. This introduces the need for intervention, and opportunity for optimization, from an external control plane that has awareness of the satellite constellation, its sub-components and its evolution, and is thus capable of predicting the behaviour of both the user links and their channel state across multiple satellites throughout their motion, as well as the impact of components of the system that are outside of the scope of any individual gNB, such, in this example, other gNBs, other satellites or NTN service nodes, or any of the gateway feeder links. In addition, to account for events in the future impacting links that have not come into existence yet, there might be a need for the NTN control plane to be able to be spatially-aware, in addition to it being temporally-aware, to propagate predict where the NTN service nodes (e.g. satellites, but not only) might be at any future point in time and which links they might be able to form.

#### 5.2.2.3 Proposed Solution
A possible solution could be leveraging the NTN RIC, either as a combination of the Near-RT and the Non-RT RIC, or via the Near-RT RIC alone, with the introduction of a new control loop provided by one or more NTN xApp(s). Such xApps would leverage the holistic view of the satellite network provided by the NTN RIC, combined with predictive capabilities, to produce handover decisions which take into account multiple concurring factors, as well as reducing the reliance on signal measurements and reporting. The NTN RIC and xApp(s)/rApps are configured with a digital twin of the NTN network, including, not only the 3GPP RAN segment, but also the NTN ground and space segments (e.g. the gateways, the feeder links, the satellites, etc) via which the NTN service is delivered, even though some of these elements are presently not within the scope or control of the existing O-RAN reference framework. It is assumed that the NTN RIC may be capable of predicting NTN network node state, motion, trajectory (e.g. orbit) and behaviour in time and space. It is also assumed that the NTN RIC may be able to ingest external data sources, such as, but not limited to, weather data, to predict impact of external events on the active or candidate links, in order to aid the control loop affecting handover decisions. By knowing the predictable orbital movement of the candidate satellites , their association with ground stations and feeder links, the relatively static position (compared to the satellites) of UE or groups of UE in a given target coverage area (e.g. cell or cell portion) and the impact of weather effects, an NTN xApp could drive the decision of which satellite to hand over the UE to by modelling the candidate link vectors which could be formed and sustained until the need for the next handover, and aiming to choose the one that satisfies the appropriate combination of constraints. The use of prediction can be considered a supplement to, not a replacement of the evaluation of UE measurement reports. Use Case Stage Detailed Information Find best handover candidate satellites/cells for a UE to address impact of satellite motion and Goal constellation evolution, while considering a number of diverse constraints and dependencies not directly visible through measurments, and trigger a Connedted Mode Handover (HO). Actors and Roles NTN xApp, Near-RT RIC, E2 Nodes, UE. All relevant functions and components are instantiated. The NTN RIC is aware of the sate and Assumptions motion of the constellation and is capable of predicting its evolution in time and space. E2 interface connectivity is established, UE is in active RRC Connected Mode state to a given Pre-conditions serving satellite (e.g. Satellite 11) NTN Handover Optimization xApp/Near-RT RIC subscribes to UE information change and Step 1 (M) message copy of UE mobility from E2 Nodes to understand the state of the network and the UEs within it. NTN Handover Optimization xApp/Near-RT RIC requests to the E2 Nodes for the UEs to perform measurements of both serving and visible candidate target cells across satellites, and Step 2 (M) configure in the E2 Nodes UE information change and message copy of UE mobility to be reported back to the NTN Handover Optimization xApp /Near-RT RIC. E2 Nodes configure target measurements to UEs and UEs perform measurements and monitor Step 3 (M) for configured measurement events, upon which they signal a measurement report to the serving NTN E2 Node NTN E2 Nodes forward the measurement report to NTN Handover Optimization xApp/Near-RT Step 4 (M) RIC xApp with digital twin analyses the currently employed Ground Station and transparent LEO satellite to derive the remaining service time before a handover must occur. It also evaluates the candidate handover opportunities via available neighbouring satellites and feeder links to model the link performances attainable during the service times that they could respectively Step 5 (M) offer to the UE, and compares them with the results of the measurement reports. Its output is a selection of the neighbour satellite/cell which is best positioned to serve the UEs in the target coverage area. NTN Handover Optimization xApp/Near-RT RIC signals to NTN E2 Node to establish the correct handover control to the target UEs, to the selected target satellites, including the correct Step 6 (M) SIB19 contents (e.g. Ephemeris) for the respective target satellites to be included in the HO request message by the E2 Node. NTN E2 Node implements RRC Connected Mode handover as specified by NTN Handover Step 7 (M) Optimization xApp/Near-RT RIC title NTN Handover Optimization Use Case participant "NTN HO Optimization xApp/Near-RT RIC" as xappnearrtric participant "NTN E2 Nodes" as e2nodes reports events reporting config for candidate handover opportunities cell report measurement result of candidate serving satellites/cells to E2 nodes xApp with digital twin analyses the currently employed Ground Station and transparent LEO satellite to derive the remaining service time before a handover must occur. It also evaluates the candidate handover opportunities via available neighbouring satellites and feeder links to model the link performances attainable during the service times that they could respectively offer to the UE, and compares them with the results of the measurement reports. Its output is a selection of the neighbour satellite/cell which is best positioned to serve the UEs in the target coverage area. Neighboring X gNB/NTN GW satellite assistance information

#### 5.2.2.4 Benefits
The first and main benefit is the introduction of support of Release 17+ NR NTN network-controlled Handover (HO) from RRC Connected Mode, including support for NTN-specific satellite assistance information in the HO request/trigger, which is presently not supported by the O-RAN specifications. The second benefit, achieved by the introduction of an NTN RIC (Near/Non-RT RIC) that is aware of the dynamic topology, physics and evolution of the constellation, and is capable of predicting its behaviour, is a potentially significant reduction of the signalling overhead, as well as a reduction of the potential for handover failures or sub-optimal handovers, leading to an improved service experience, as well as overall improved efficiency of the network by reduction of the resources consumed to support a mobility event.

#### 5.2.2.5 Impact on O-RAN WGs
The use case brings an intelligent NTN handover management approach to O-RAN, which also utilizes information that is not natively exposed by the O-RAN interfaces (information owing to the non-3GPP components of an NTN constellation, and the constellation’s own dynamic evolution. There is a need to support the configuration of the previously described new measurement configurations specific to NR NTN introduced in Release 17, such as the new SSB Measurement Timing Configuration (SMTC) or SMTC4 (SSB-MTC4List-r17). In addition, the NTN cells must be able to broadcast Satellite Assistance information, in particular Satellite Ephemeris, in the form of SIB19, containing serving and neighbor satellite and cell information. Furthermore, in order to trigger a HO, the gNB must be able to include specific SIB19 content in the HO triggers. These could be implemented by extending the existing support for measConfig and configuration of HO that is found in E2 Service Model RAN Control, as well as investigating new mechanisms either via E2 or O1 to deliver SIB19 information to gNB from the RIC/SMO.

### 5.2.3 Use Case 2-2: NTN QoS-based inter-cell traffic steering and load balancing

#### 5.2.3.1 Use Case description
Void.

#### 5.2.3.2 Problem statement and challenges
Void.

#### 5.2.3.3 Proposed Solution
Void.

#### 5.2.3.4 Benefits
Void.

#### 5.2.3.5 Impact on O-RAN WGs
Void.

### 5.2.4 Use Case 2-3: NTN Time-based and Distance-based Conditional Handover
(CHO)

#### 5.2.4.1 Use Case Description
Void.

#### 5.2.4.3 Problem Statement and challenges
Void.

#### 5.2.4.4 Proposed Solution
Void.

#### 5.2.4.5 Benefits
Void.

#### 5.2.4.6 Impact on O-RAN WGs
Void.

### 5.2.5 Use Case 2-4: NTN Idle mode cell re-selection

#### 5.2.5.1 Use Case Description
Void.

#### 5.2.5.3 Problem Statement and challenges
Void.

#### 5.2.5.4 Proposed Solution
Void.

#### 5.2.5.5 Benefits
Void.

#### 5.2.5.6 Impact on O-RAN WGs
Void.

### 5.2.6 Use Case 2-5: NTN UE Location-aware Connected Mode Handover and Inter- cell Traffic Steering and Load-balancing

#### 5.2.6.1 Use Case description
Void.

#### 5.2.6.2 Problem statement and challenges
Void.

#### 5.2.6.3 Proposed Solution
Void.

#### 5.2.6.4 Benefits
Void.

#### 5.2.6.5 Impact on O-RAN WGs
Void.

# 6 Summary and Conclusion
Void


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG1.TR.SA-MVD-R004-v03.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG1.TR.SA-MVD-R004-v03.00"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms

For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in [i.1], O-RAN WG1.OAD [i.17] and the following apply:

carrier aggregation: aggregation of two or more NR or E-UTRA component carriers in order to support wider transmission bandwidths.

Primary O-DU:	O-DU where PCell is hosted for a particular UE.

Secondary O-DU: O-DU where SCell is hosted for a particular UE.

## 3.2 Symbols

For the purposes of the present document, the symbols given in [i.1] and the following apply:

- **NRB**: Transmission bandwidth configuration, expressed in units of resource blocks (for E-UTRA)

## 3.3 Abbreviations

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in [i.1], O-RAN WG1.OAD [i.17] and the following apply:

- **C&M Plane**: Control and Management Plane
- **C-RAN**: Centralized RAN
- **C-RNTI**: Cell Radio Network Temporary Identifier
- **D-RAN**: Distributed RAN
- **EMS**: Element Management System
- **MCG**: Master Cell Group
- **MNO**: Mobile Network Operator
- **Near-RT RIC**: Near real time RAN Intelligent Controller
- **Non-RT RIC**: Non-real time RAN Intelligent Controller
- **PCI**: Physicall Cell Identity
- **SCG**: Secondary Cell Group
- **SMO**: Service Management and Orchestration
- **vRAN**: Virtualized RAN

# 4 Objectives and requirements

## 4.1 Current challenges for spectrum aggregation in multi-vendor RAN

Spectrum aggregation across different bands plays an essential role for user experience and efficient use of frequency resources. As MNOs get access to new NR spectrum, they usually desire to aggregate the capacity across the different bands to improve the user experience. The coverage areas of different frequency bands can be very different. There has been interest from several companies for spectrum aggregation over multi-vendor RAN deployment, where different bands may have different component suppliers. In addition to a greenfield multi-vendor RAN deployment, how spectrum can be aggregated when a new band with a new supplier(s) is introduced in an existing network is an area of potential interest.

## 4.2 Objectives

The present document captures the outcome of the WG1 spectrum aggregation study across multi-vendor RAN equipment. The objective of the study is to document various deployment scenarios for spectrum aggregation and then describe solutions that map to these deployment scenarios. The solution evaluation under various considerations defined in the present document is also part of the study.

The detailed objectives of this study item are:

# 5 Scenarios and considerations

## 5.1 Overview

In its most general form, deployed RAN network functions in an MNO's network can be sourced from a single-vendor or multiple vendors.  The connectivity between the RAN logical functions may need to consider ideal and non-ideal transport scenarios. RAN deployments can also be mixed involving a combination of D-RAN, C-RAN and vRAN deployments.

Figure 5.1-1 shows the reference deployment architecture used in the present document. In addition to being purpose-built or virtualized, gNB network functions can be procured from multiple vendors. Depending on deployment factors, O-DUs can be connected to the same or different O-CU-CPs and O-CU-UPs.

## 5.2 Deployment scenarios

### 5.2.1 Co-located deployments

#### 5.2.1.1 Overview

This clause considers the deployment scenarios where relevant O-RAN network functions for aggregation of frequencies are co-located. In this use case, O-RAN NFs from multiple vendors, supporting the same or different band/duplexing capability are co-located. O-RAN NFs can be supporting a split RAN architecture, or it can be a monolithic integrated gNB. By supporting spectrum aggregation across the O-RAN NFs that are co-located, user throughput, cell coverage etc. can be improved.

Use cases based on different combinations of O-RAN NFs are described in clause 5.2.1.2 and 5.2.1.3.

#### 5.2.1.2 Addition of new O-RAN NFs co-located with existing intra/inter-band O-RAN NFs supporting same/different duplexing capability

The following use case covers the scenario where spectrum aggregation is needed between the co-located O-RAN NFs.

An MNO can have network function such as O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU and O-RU with either TDD or FDD or both duplexing capabilities installed at a cell site. To increase the capacity of the site, MNO may need to install a new cell which could be operating in the same/different band. In one deployment scenario, depicted in Figure 5.2.1.2-1, MNO deploys a new O-RU, from a new vendor, to add a new frequency band to the existing infrastructure. The new O-RU can be connected to the existing O-DU through open fronthaul, as shown in Figure 5.2.1.2-1(b).  In some instances, hardware or software realizing the existing O-DU may be limited by capacity and cannot host the new cell. One of the options available for the MNO is to enhance the capacity of existing hardware or software. Another possibility is to install a new hardware or software for capacity enhancements. The new hardware can be integrated with the existing hardware to realize the same logical O-DU (as in Figure 5.2.1.2-1(b)), or it can realize a new logical O-DU operating in parallel to the first O-DU as shown in Figure 5.2.1.2-1(c).

In some other deployment scenarios, deployed O-DU(s) may have limited capacity, may only support one duplexing method or can support a limited set of subcarrier spacing for real-time processing. The MNO may choose to deploy a new O-DU vendor to support a new O-RU, e.g., vendor c as shown in Figure 5.2.1.2-2. If the MNO chooses to install a new O-DU, it can be supporting the same or different duplexing capability or subcarrier spacing. If O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP are capable to handle the newly installed O-DU, the new O-DU can be connected to same O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP. Otherwise, a new O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP may also need to be installed. The MNO can choose the O-CU-CPs, O-CU-UPs, O-DUs or O-RUs from the same vendor or different vendors.

#### 5.2.1.3 Co-located intra/inter-band monolithic gNBs with same or different duplexing capability

This use case covers the deployment scenario where a monolithic gNB is installed at cell site. As shown in Figure 5.2.1.3-1, to increase the user capacity with spectrum aggregation, the MNO can install additional hardware and software either to upgrade the capacity of exiting gNB or to support a new gNB operating in parallel to the existing gNB. The newly installed gNB can operate in the same band or different band as the existing gNB. Both the gNBs may also support same or different duplexing capability. The new gNB can be monolithic or disaggregated. By supporting spectrum aggregation between these gNBs, improved coverage and throughput can be achieved.

### 5.2.2 Non-co-located deployments

This clause covers the deployment scenarios where aggregated frequencies are served by equipments that are not co-located.

In this use case, gNBs are supporting split RAN architecture and it is distributed into different O-RAN network functions. O-CU-CP/O-CU-UP might be residing at a centralized location while O-DUs may be located at cell site or at a central location. Two cases are considered for this scenario:

- Single O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP connected to multiple O-DUs located at cell site.
- Each O-DU at cell site is connected to different O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP.
In one deployment scenario, the network MNO may deploy a new O-RU from a different vendor, to add a new frequency band, that is not co-located with other O-RUs serving the same geographic area. As an example, currently deployed O-RUs in a network may serve a large area and the MNO may decide to serve a high-demand zone within the larger coverage area by deploying additional spectrum. This is shown in Figure 5.2.2-1 below. By supporting spectrum aggregation across all the O-RUs serving the same area, user throughput, cell coverage etc. can be improved.

In some other deployment scenarios, as shown in Figure 5.2.2-2 below, deployed O-DU(s) at each cell site may have limited capacity, or may only support one duplexing method, or can support a limited set of subcarrier spacing. There may also be some other O-DUs which are not co-located with the existing O-DUs. But these O-DUs can be used together to overcome the limitations of existing cell site deployment. All the O-DUs can be supporting the same or different duplexing capability. The O-Dus can be connected to the same or different O-CU-CPs and O-CU-UPs. Also, these O-DUs may be provided by the same vendor or different vendors. The band configuration also can be the same or different for all these O-DUs. By supporting spectrum aggregation across different cells served by same or different non-co-located network functions (O-RU, O-DU, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP), end user throughput and cell coverage of different frequency bands can be improved.

### 5.2.3 Transport assumptions

This clause covers the aspect of connectivity between the different equipment for supporting spectrum aggregation to consider ideal and non-ideal transport considerations.

Network devices can be connected directly or through L2/L3 switches within the range that meets delay requirements. There are multiple connectivity classes for the transport connecting the NFs. Some guidelines are provided in O-RAN Xhaul Transport Requirements document [i.2].

For more information on the latency requirements, see Annex A. The outlined solutions in the present document account for ideal and non-ideal transport scenarios.

## 5.3 Considerations for spectrum aggregation techniques

### 5.3.1 UE considerations from network perspective

Spectrum aggregation between RAN NFs can be achieved by multiple techniques such as carrier aggregation or dual connectivity. The usage of these techniques in a network are also dependent on UE capability. Different spectrum aggregation techniques can impact the UE performance differently. Use case considerations for UE performance and capabilities are discussed below.

- Spectrum aggregation to maximize component carrier (CC) combinations based on UE capability: Number of carrier frequency combinations play an important role in spectrum aggregation; larger the number, better the throughput and coverage. UEs supporting different 3GPP releases differ in CC combination capabilities. Number of available CCs for spectrum aggregation depends on a particular spectrum aggregation technique. For example, UEs, which are supporting earlier R15 or R16 3GPP releases, may be limited in supporting CC combinations for some of the spectrum aggregation techniques based on the band and bandwidth considerations for the component carriers. This needs to be considered for both SA and NSA UEs.
- UE power consumption: While considering spectrum aggregation techniques, power consumption by UEs at various distances from the cell site needs to be considered. Spectrum aggregation techniques should minimize impact on UE power consumption.

### 5.3.2 Spectrum considerations

#### 5.3.2.1 Overview

Most commercial RAN deployments involve multiple frequency bands. Spectrum aggregation across different bands should consider frequency band characteristics (coverage, supported SCS, duplexing).

The following clauses cover use cases, such as (i) intra-band contiguous and non-contiguous in FR1/FR2, (ii) inter-band within and across FR1/FR2, and (iii) considerations for DL-UL link balance in high-frequency bands and different duplexing schemes (FDD/TDD).

#### 5.3.2.2 Duplexing (FDD/TDD)

Spectrum usage is regulated into FDD and TDD domains. While FDD uses separate frequencies for the uplink and the downlink, TDD uses a single frequency for both uplink and downlink.

Generally, the unpaired spectrum for TDD is allocated in higher frequencies than FDD. The low-band FDD, due to physical propagation characteristics, offers a wider coverage area than the higher-frequency TDD spectrum. Typically, the low-band FDD is limited in capacity. Mid-band TDD has a higher bandwidth and capacity compared to the low-band FDD. However, mid-band TDD uplink coverage is more limited than the low-band FDD. Spectrum aggregation across FDD and TDD carriers can improve TDD cell coverage and deliver higher throughput than a TDD-only solution.

Figure 5.3.2.2-1 illustrates a possible way to aggregate the low-band FDD carrier (primary cell) and mid-band TDD carrier (secondary cell). By using the low-band FDD as the primary cell (PCell), the coverage-limiting UL data and control channels of the mid-band TDD carrier can be moved to the low-band FDD. This increases the overall mid-band cell coverage, which means that now the mid-band spectrum can be accessed by more users in the network. By using the mid-band TDD as secondary cell (SCell), the downlink throughput can be significantly improved. This use case provides the unique capability of aggregating low-band FDD and mid-band TDD for higher peak rates and increased cell coverage.

#### 5.3.2.3 Maximize the number of CCs being aggregated irrespective of inter or intra-band

MNO can access multiple carriers across various bands enabled by 5G in low, mid, and high frequencies. National regulators often grant additional spectrum licenses to MNOs in a phased manner. As a result, MNOs can offer services in multiple frequency bands and add spectrum in a phased manner at later dates including low, mid and high-frequency bands. To increase bandwidth and bitrate aggregation, MNOs need to consider spectrum aggregation from same or different vendor’s equipment, involving low, mid, and high-band cells with considerations on availability, functionality, cost etc. This enables the use of downlink for all aggregated cells while ensuring connection stability through a common uplink on the lower frequency aggregated carriers. The MNOs primarily benefit from leveraging the cumulative spectrum bandwidth of these allocations from different vendors to achieve higher date rates for end users.

Figure 5.3.2.3-1 illustrates a scenario where three co-located and overlaid cells are provided by different vendor equipment; a low-band carrier, a mid-band carrier, and a high-band carrier. Maximizing the number of CCs being aggregated can be considered for both NSA and SA scenarios.

#### 5.3.2.4 Spectrum aggregation between low band and mid/high band

This use case covers the need of spectrum aggregation between low and mid/high band. Let us consider that the MNO has O-DUs/O-RUs operating on low band allocated to the MNO, deployed in the cell site. Later, the regulatory body allocates a new mid/high band spectrum to the same MNO. By supporting aggregation between low and mid/high band cells, the MNO can achieve better coverage for mid/high band and can improve the throughput for UEs connected to low band cells. If existing O-DU with low band is restricted by capacity issue and hence cannot host new cells with mid/high band, a new O-DU may be required to be installed to utilize the newly allocated band.  Existing cell may be supporting low band FDD capability while new cells may be supporting high or mid band with TDD duplexing capability. The introduction of new mid/high band cells can reduce the capacity demand of the low band cell as UEs in good coverage conditions can be served by the new cell as shown in Figure 5.3.2.4-1.

#### 5.3.2.5 Intra-band spectrum aggregation (contiguous or non-contiguous)

This use case covers the need of spectrum aggregation between the intra band cells. MNO deploys cells with spectrum allocated from Band B.  Later more spectrum from same Band B is allocated to the MNO. Newly allocated spectrum can be contiguous or non-contiguous. The MNO wants to install cells from same or different vendor to support the newly allocated spectrum. As shown in Figure 5.3.2.5-1 below, to enhance the end user throughput by utilizing the newly allocated spectrum, aggregation between the two cells need to be supported.

#### 5.3.2.6 Supplemental Uplink (SUL) use case

This is a use case to increase the UL coverage and/or capacity by using supplemental uplink (SUL) bands (see 3GPP TS 38.300 [i.4]). The coverage increase of a higher frequency cell is achieved by using the SUL carrier’s lower frequency, which has lower path loss than the UL frequency of the higher frequency cell. UEs are typically limited in transmit power compared to gNBs/ng-eNBs. Usage of SUL allows UEs to extend UL coverage by switching the UL frequency to the SUL carrier. Figure 5.3.2.6-1 illustrates this use case. SUL bands are defined in 3GPP TS 38.101-1 [i.5]. The SUL carrier’s provisioning and management can be addressed by a different RAN vendor than that of the UL carrier.

#### 5.3.2.7 Supplemental Downlink (SDL) use case

SDL is a spectrum aggregation use case to increase a cell’s DL capacity. Aggregating SDL carrier (see 3GPP TS 38.101-1 [i.5]) with any downlink carrier increases the DL bandwidth, thereby increasing the cell’s DL capacity. The Figure 5.3.2.7-1 illustrates this spectrum aggregation use case. The aggregation of SDL and DL carriers is as defined in 3GPP TS 38.101-1 [i.5]. The SDL carrier’s provisioning and management can be taken care by a different RAN vendor than that of the DL carrier with which the SDL carrier is aggregated.

### 5.3.3 Synchronization considerations

Spectrum aggregation often requires deploying multiple nodes to serve a single UE. Such nodes run their own clocks which may or may not be synched with GPS clock. Thus, it cannot be assumed that synchronization required by 3GPP for spectrum aggregation is always possible (as defined in TS 38.133 [i.6], for intra-FR1, maximum received timing difference cannot be bigger than 33 µs). While considering techniques for spectrum aggregation, it should be made sure that the requirements for time synchronization between aggregated cells should be as flexible as possible to enable deployments also where the above requirements for time synchronization cannot be achieved.

### 5.3.4 Network management considerations

Network management aspects (FCAPS) need to be considered when new spectrum (intra/inter band, contiguous/non-contiguous, FDD/TDD) is added. A few possible scenarios wherein, either a new O-RAN NF needs to be added or existing O-RAN NF continues to support the additional spectrum are listed in Table 5.3.4-1.

| Scenario# | O-RU | O-DU | O-CU-CP | O-CU-UP |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | New | Existing |  |  |
| 2 | New | Existing |  |  |
| 3 | New |  |  |  |
| 4 | Existing | New |  |  |

As discussed in previous clauses, network functions (O-RU, O-DU, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP) can be from one or more vendors with any combination of them. These network functions (NFs) can be managed by EMS/NMS/SMO from one or multiple vendors. Orchestration and automation aspects for multi-vendor scenarios need to be considered as well. This is not addressed in the present document.

### 5.3.5 RAN intelligence considerations

RAN intelligence aspects can be considered when new spectrum (intra/inter band, contiguous/non-contiguous, FDD/TDD) is added. Impacts on Near-RT RIC and Non-RT RIC due to the multi-vendor scenarios already listed in clause 5.3.4 can be considered. This is not addressed in the present document.

### 5.3.6 Considerations for solution evaluation

When evaluating different solutions and techniques for spectrum aggregation with multi-vendor deployments, the following criteria is proposed:

# 6 Spectrum aggregation solutions

## 6.1 Overview

There are multiple techniques available for multi-vendor spectrum aggregation in 3GPP and O-RAN. These techniques cover different use cases. However, not all the use case defined in clause 5.2.1 are covered due to limitations on existing interfaces.

Following Spectrum Aggregation techniques are defined in 3GPP Rel-15 for NR [i.4]:

There are multiple interfaces that can be used to achieve the spectrum aggregation across multi-vendor components using above techniques. These interfaces are defined in 3GPP and O-RAN, and an additional interface is newly proposed below to provide additional functionality for multi-vendor interoperability.

- Xn Interface (existing):
- Dual connectivity with aggregation at PDCP level, for supporting spectrum aggregation, can be achieved using Xn Interface
- Data exchange between primary node and secondary node takes place at PDCP PDU level.
- F1 Interface (existing):
- If multiple O-DUs are connected to the same O-CU-CP/O-CU-UP, F1 interface can be used to provide spectrum aggregation via DC technique.
- If an O-DU supports multiple cells, each O-DU node can support CA simultaneously with DC. All the CA links will be within a single vendor O-DU in this case.
- Open Fronthaul Interface (existing):
- CA between cells of different O-RUs connected to a single O-DU can be achieved using O-FH interface.
- The O-RUs and the O-DU can be provided by same or different vendors.
- Inter O-DU Interface (proposal):
- CA across cells supported in different vendor O-DUs can be achieved by a potential new interface between O-DUs.
- Each O-DU can be connected to different or same vendor O-RUs. The O-DUs can be connected to different or same vendor O-CU-CP/O-CU-UP.
There are several additional aspects of spectrum aggregation that impact the performance and need to be considered. One such example is the increase in traffic load in O-DUs due to larger bandwidth available to UEs.  This can result in an imbalance in the loading of O-DUs that are implementing spectrum aggregation. Therefore, mobility load balancing (MLB) techniques are an important consideration for effective usage of spectrum aggregation.

The MLB feature is defined in 3GPP TS38.300 specification [i.4]. MLB is achieved by exchanging resource information among gNBs periodically and initiating handover procedure to redirect UE session to other gNBs as shown in Figure 6.1-1.

## 6.2 Solution 1: Intra O-DU Carrier Aggregation

### 6.2.1 Solution description

#### 6.2.1.1 Intra O-DU multi O-RU carrier aggregation

In carrier aggregation, spectrum aggregation is achieved at O-DU level. Each O-DU can support multiple cells possibly through multiple O-RUs. The cell where UE is attached is called the Primary Cell (PCell) for that UE while other cells used for carrier aggregation are called Secondary Cells (SCells).

In DL CA, the primary O-DU receives data from O-CU-UP and schedules the data between the PCell and SCells to transmit to the UE. The UE maintains multiple downlink links as per the number of component carriers (CCs) configured to receive data from gNB. Data received from SCells as well as from PCell is aggregated at MAC level in the UE and forwarded to higher layer. There is a single instance of PDCP, RLC, and other higher layers in the UE, when carrier aggregation is activated.

In UL CA, SCells and PCell receive UL data (PUSCH) separately from the UE. Data is then aggregated in the PCell and forwarded to the O-CU-UP. The UCI (PUCCH) can be transmitted on the component carriers configured for UL.

Both SCells and PCell are processed in a single O-DU which is connected with multiple O-RUs using the Open Fronthaul interface. The Open Fronthaul (and F1) interface enables multiple vendor options for an MNO to decide for deployment considerations as shown in Figure 6.2.1-1. Figure 6.2.1-1 shows the intra O-DU DL CA scenario, where the PCell is configured on a carrier served by O-RU1 and DL only SCell(s) are served by O-RUn. In this scenario, PUCCH is carried by the PCell.  The UE transmits the PUCCH for PCell PDSCH as well as for SCell PDSCHs on PCell resources. The PUCCH is received by PCell in O-DU. If PUCCH for SCell is present, it is shared with SCells. The O-DU coordinates the sharing of the PUCCH between the PCell and the SCells configured for the UE.

Intra O-DU CA is implemented within a single O-DU. MLB is taken care of by existing F1/X2/Xn interface by doing intra O-DU handover or inter O-DU handover to other O-DU.

#### 6.2.1.2 Intra O-DU Shared O-RU carrier aggregation

Shared O-RU reference architecture is shown in Figure 6.2.1.2-1, where a shared O-RU can share its resources (e.g., carriers) with two O-DUs. The Shared O-RU framework can be used in scenarios when a new O-RU deployment is also accompanied by an additional O-DU. Spectrum aggregation across cells supported by an O-DU is then achieved by carrier aggregation.

Figure 6.2.1.2-2 shows how shared O-RU can be used in a multi-vendor O-DU/O-RU deployment to enable carrier aggregation of newly deployed spectrum with already deployed carriers. In Figure 6.2.1.2-2 (a), O-RU1, supporting for example carrier 1, is connected to O-DU1. To support new spectrum, O-RUn is added to the network. A new O-DUn can be installed from a different vendor, for example to handle carrier(s) supported by O-RUn if O-DU1 is resource constrained. The new O-DUn can also be connected to the O-RU1. O-RU1 is then configured as shared O-RU and its resources (carriers) are shared between O-DU1 and O-DUn. The UEs connected to O-DUn can use CA for carriers supported by O-RUn and the shared carrier(s) of O-RU1. Even though O-DUn is supported by a different vendor, CA is still achieved among the multiple component carriers within the single vendor O-DUn. In Figure 6.2.1.2-2 (b), a UE connected to O-DU1 cannot be configured for carrier aggregation with carriers(s) from O-RUn. UEs connected to O-DU1 can be configured for carrier aggregation for the carriers supported in O-DU1 (i.e., carriers supported by O-RU1 and carriers supported by other O-RUs, not shown in figure, which are connected to the O-DU1).

### 6.2.2 Mapping to deployment scenarios and other consideration

For non-co-located deployment use cases of clause 5.2.2, this solution can cover all scenarios if the fronthaul connecting the O-RU and O-DU has latency within the latency classes of High25, High75 of Table A-1. The High100 and High200 latency classes can also be supported depending on implementation and performance trade-offs.

3GPP TS 38.101 specification [i.5] defines the various NR band combinations and carrier components that can be used in DC and CA technologies within each frequency range (FR1 or FR2). Table 6.2.2-1 captures the number of NR band combinations supported for various 3GPP releases.

| 3GPP Release | Intra Band | 2-Band, Inter Band | 3-Band, Inter Band | 4-Band, Inter Band | 5-Band, Inter Band | SUL |  |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 3GPP Release | CA | DC |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Rel 15 (38.101-1 v15.23.0) | 4 | 0 | 13 | 8 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Rel 16 (38.101-1 v16.17.0) | 11 (contig) + 8 (non contig) | 0 | 82 | 1 | 35 | 6 | 15 |  |  |  |  |
| Rel 17 (38.101-1 v17.11.0) | 17 (contig.) + 13 (non contig) | 0 | 181 | 120 | 182 | 29 | 75 | 7 | 2 | 25 |  |
| Rel 18 (38.101-1 v18.3.0) | 17 (contig) + 14 (non contig) | 0 | 226 | 200 | 272 | 117 | 102 | 29 | 17 | 8 | 32 |

As shown in Table 6.2.2-1, NR CA has more band combinations compared to NR DC. Release 15 and Release 16 specify NR DC for inter frequency ranges (between FR1 and FR2) but not for bands/frequencies within a given frequency range (FR1 or FR2). For NR spectrum aggregation, Release 15 or Release 16 UEs can use NR DC across FR1 and FR2 but within each frequency range, they can only use CA. Since the UE has to maintain at least two separate uplink connections for DC, the UE power consumption is typically lower in CA (e.g., for DL only CA) where a single UL carrier can be used for all the carriers.

### 6.2.3 Impact analysis on specifications

Carrier aggregation for NR is defined in 3GPP specification [i.4]. In Intra O-DU carrier aggregation, the scheduler is residing in the single vendor O-DU and the vendor can implement proprietry algorithms to coordinate DL and UL resources and manage data transfer between PCell and SCells. There is no impact on any specification, as both the cells are running in the same O-DU and O-FH is a well-defined interface in O-RAN for O-DU and O-RU interoperability.

The shared O-RU approach described in clause 6.2.1.2 uses existing O-FH to connect the existing O-RU with the new O-DU (see Figure 6.2.1.2-2). No new interfaces are needed. However, enhancements to CUS-Plane and M-Plane specifications [i.14], [i.15] might be needed to enable an O-RU to connect with two O-DUs and for the O-RU to share its resources (carriers) dynamically between the two O-DUs for single MNO use case with carrier sharing. This resource partitioning (static or dynamic) use case of sharing carriers is described in clause 4.20.1.2, clause 4.20.2.2 and clause 4.20.3.2 of the O-RAN Use Cases Detailed Specification [i.16].

### 6.2.4 Feasibility and gain/complexity analysis

| Solution Evaluation Criteria | Remarks |
| --- | --- |
| Minimize complexity | No impact. Open FH is already a standard solution in O-RAN. |
| Minimize impact to inter-operability testing and standardization effort | No impact. Already a standardized interface. |
| Increase performance and lower latency | Since spectrum aggregation is done at O-DU level, latency will be very low. Performance of spectrum aggregation is also better compared to DC. |
| Minimize impact on O-RAN architecture | No impact. Open FH is a standardized interface. |
| Minimize UE impact | No impact. |
| Aligns with 3GPP RAN design | Aligned (Open FH is not defined in 3GPP but is aligned with the 3GPP standards for CA). |
| Increase spectral efficiency of combined carriers | Maximum possible for spectrum aggregation techniques and allowed combinations. |
| Increase coverage and capacity | Maximum for any spectrum aggregation technique [i.7]. |
| Address security concerns with different solutions | No impact. Already a standardized solution. |
| Minimize energy consumption | In DL CA, single PUCCH on PCell can carry the HARQ feedback or CQI etc for all the carriers while in DC, it is different PUCCH for both the carriers. Hence, energy consumption by UE will be lesser in CA compared to DC [i.8]. |
| Minimize exchange of scheduling-specific information over open interfaces | No impact. Monitoring of the Open FH does not offer information about MAC implementation. Monitoring of multiple Open FH does not change this situation. |

## 6.3 Solution 2: Inter O-DU Carrier Aggregation

### 6.3.1 Solution description

For supporting carrier aggregation across multi-vendor O-DUs which are running in different servers, existing interfaces Xn (at O-CU-CP/O-CU-UP level), F1 (between O-CU-CP/O-CU-UP and O-DU) and Open Fronthaul (between O-DU and multiple O-RU) cannot be used as none of the interfaces support connection between O-DUs. Hence, support for newly proposed interface between O-DUs is required in this scenario. If existing O-DUs already support the interface or it can be supported by a software upgrade, carrier aggregation across O-DUs can be achieved. By supporting an inter O-DU interface for CA, MNO can benefit from all the benefits of spectrum aggregation through CA.

A Service Management & Orchestrator (SMO) configures O-DUs using O1 interface as shown in Figure 6.3.1-1. O-DUs and O-RUs need to be compatible from Management plane perspective. This is the requirement for interworking of newly installed O-DU with existing/new O-RU irrespective of inter O-DU CA. The O1 interface can be updated to bring additional information such as IP address of the O-DUs, C-RNTIs, or PCIs, that is needed for the functioning of inter O-DU interface. The inter O-DU interface can also be configured automatically based on self-detection of O-DUs supporting cells that can be aggregated.

In Figure 6.3.1-2 O-DU1 is hosting primary cells while O-DU2… O-DUn are hosting SCells. The dotted colored interface is indicating the DL CA across O-DUs using the new interface (D2-C and D2-U). O-DU1 receives data from O-CU-UP and schedules DL Data with O-DU2 … O-DUn to transmit on SCells. If there is no UL CA supported, PUCCH for SCells and PCells shall be received by O-DU1 as shown in Figure 6.3.1-2. O-DU1 shall extract the relevant part of the PUCCH information such as CQI, HARQ feedback and forward it to SCells.

> NOTE:	'n' is not equal to maximum number of aggregated component carriers, rather the maximum number of inter-connected O-DUs for a given deployment that are used for CA across relevant SCells.
At power up, each O-DU connects to its peer O-DUs based on the configuration received via O1 interface. SCells from peer O-DUs can be added only if link establishment between the O-DUs is successful. Once a O-DU triggers the link establishment request towards another O-DU, it may accept or reject the request. If the request is rejected, pair of O-DUs can not be used for CA. On SCell addition from O-CU-CP, primary O-DU shares the SCell information such as CRNTI, Cell ID of SCell, QoS, RLC configuration etc with secondary O-DUs supporting SCells. After successful addition of SCells from other O-DUs, SCells can be activated for the UE. At SCell activation, the primary O-DU, informs secondary O-DUs about CA activation so that data exchange can take place.

If UL CA is also enabled along-with DL CA, UE maintains multiple links for uplink data. UE transmits data on the respective SCells, which can belong to different O-DUs, depending on the scheduling of PUSCH in SCells. Data is then transferred from secondary O-DUs to the primary O-DU for aggregation. The primary O-DU sends the aggregated data to O-CU-UP. In this case UCI for both PCell and SCell can also come multiplexed with PUSCH data on SCell depending on scheduling in the SCell.

As showing in Figure 6.3.1-3 & Figure 6.3.1-4, UE is connected to PCell running in the O-DU1 while SCells are running in the O-DU2 and the O-DUn. UE transmits the data on the cell(s) as scheduled by the PDCCH. SCell(s) receive PUSCH containing user data and control (UCI) information. Secondary O-DU (O-DUn) then forwards the user data and UCI information (for example HARQ feebdback, CQI) for PCell and SCells to the Primary O-DU (O-DU1). Primary O-DU shares the UCI information with other secondary O-DUs (O-DU2). In Figure 6.3.1-3, UCI bits are scheduled on the primary O-DU (O-DU1). O-DU1 receives UCI information related to SCells.  O-DU1 then parses and sends UCI information to O-DU2 and O-DUn if present. In Figure 6.3.1-4,, UCI is scheduled on secondary O-DUn multiplexed with PUSCH. The O-DUn receives the UL data along with the UCI information and shares UL Data and UCI information with the O-DU1. The O-DU1 forwards UCI information to secondary O-DU2, if present.

In the case of intra gNB, inter O-DU CA, MLB can be achieved through F1 interface. For MLB, one or more UEs can be handed over to other O-DUs. Handover can be done to both co-located and non-co-located O-DUs. Inter O-DU handover using F1 interface is defined in 3GPP specifications. Additionally, the new interface between O-DUs, if defined, also can be used to share the resource status information between the O-DUs so that the PCell can avoid activating SCells on the O-DU facing loading condition as shown in Figure 6.3.1-5 below.

In the case of inter gNB, inter O-DU CA, MLB can be achieved via F1 and X2/Xn interface [i.12] [i.13]. On a condition triggering MLB, one or more UEs can be handed over to other O-DU. On detecting any MLB condition, O-DU can inform O-CU-CP about the resource status on F1 interface. Based on these reports, O-CU-CP can trigger X2/Xn handover towards another O-DU. All these procedures are defined in 3GPP specifications. Additionally, if secondary O-DU is loaded, interface between O-DUs can be used to report the resource condition to primary O-DU as shown in Figure 6.3.1-6 below. Primary O-DU can avoid SCell activation towards this O-DU to avoid loading with exchanging resource information such as “Radio Resource Status” IE defined in 3GPP TS 38.423 [i.13].

Figure 6.3.1-7 shows the protocol stack for inter O-DU CA between two O-DUs. The RLC layer hosted in primary O-DU is common for both primary and secondary O-DU for a particular UE while MAC layer can be present in both primary and secondary O-DUs for a UE.

There are two parts of the inter O-DU interface referred to as D2 here.

- D2-C: Exchange of Control information. SCTP can be used as transport protocol.
- D2-U: Exchange of user data and PUCCH information. GTP-U is used for transport mechanisms.
D2 Control Interface (D2-C):

- D2-C functionality involves the establishment and management of the link between O-DUs. SCTP is used as transport protocol. Link establishment between O-DUs takes place before any UE is connected to the O-DU. Main functionality of D2-C includes:
- Establish connection between O-DUs.
- Connection establishment can happen as soon as the O-DU comes up.
- SCell Addition/Deletion/Modification. It can be triggered on SCell addition/deletion/modification for a particular UE.
Figure 6.3.1-8 indicates the sample message sequence for D2 link establishment. Figure 6.3.1-8 indicates the procedure and not the actual interface name or parameters.

D2 User Interface (D2-U):

The D2-U part of the interface is responsible for user data and PUCCH/UCI information exchange between O-DUs. GTP-U is used as the transport protocol for this interface. Main functionality of D2-U includes:

- Data exchange between primary and secondary O-DU.
- For DL-CA, primary O-DU receives data from O-CU-UP. The PDCCH is scheduled on both the O-DUs independently, similar to Intra O-DU CA case.
- For DL CA, PUCCH resource allocation is done by primary O-DU. PUCCH related information (e.g. PUCCH Resource Indicator etc), required to be encoded in PDCCH, is shared between the primary and secondary O-DUs. UCI information on PUCCH for all the O-DUs is received by primary O-DU. It then forwards the information related to an SCell to the respective secondary O-DU.
- For UL CA, both PCell on primary O-DU and SCells on secondary O-DUs receive data from UE. After MAC layer processing, secondary O-DU sends UE UL data to the primary O-DU, which then forwards it to the RLC layer residing in the primary O-DU.
Figure 6.3.1-9 indicates the information exchange on D2-U interface.

For D2 interface configuration and management, existing O1 interface that brings O-DU configuration from SMO can be enhanced. The D2 interface can be defined in a manner similar to the 3GPP defined F1 interface: a control part D2-C to carry control related information and a user plane part D2-U carrying user data as described above. Existing security mechanism defined in WG11 e.g., IPSec or any other mechanism can be utilized for protecting D2 interface as well. Brief outlines of control and data plane procedures expected from D2 interface are also described in Figure 6.3.1-8 and Figure 6.3.1-9.  An example of protocol stack split for supporting inter O-DU CA is also captured in Annex B.

As the interface between the O-DUs is kept at MAC sub-layer for user plane, this tends to reduce the bandwidth requirement. Bandwidth requirements for inter O-DU CA can be the same or lower then F1 bandwidth requirement. The D2 interface can be designed to accommodate the latency class High75, High100 & High200 as described in Table A-1. The total round trip transmission and processing delay is bounded by 500 μs. Coverage of mid/high band carrier can be improved if inter O-DU CA is supported between O-DUs with PCell on low band FDD carrier and SCell on mid/high band TDD carrier. This coverage improvement, due to PUCCH for mid/high band SCells being received on low band PCell, can be similar to the intra O-DU CA solution.

### 6.3.2 Mapping to deployment scenarios and other consideration

### 6.3.3 Impact analysis on specifications

There is no direct standardized inter O-DU interface defined in existing 3GPP or O-RAN specifications. For supporting inter O-DU carrier aggregation, a new inter O-DU interface needs to be defined. For supporting multi-vendor inter O-DU CA, the following Table 6.3.3-1 captures all the WGs that will be impacted for supporting multi-vendor inter O-DU CA. Impact on each WG is also mentioned in the table.

| # | WGs | Specifications | Objective description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | WG1 (UCTG) | O-RAN.WG1.Use-Cases-Detailed-Specification | UCTG specification for existing use cases such as Shared O-RU, traffic steering may need some updates. |
| 2 | WG1 (ATG) | O-RAN.WG1.O-RAN-Architecture-Description | Existing architecture document need to be updated to capture the newly proposed interface between O-DUs. |
| 3 | WG5 | O-RAN Interoperability Test Specification (IOT)  New Specification:  O-RAN.WG5.O-DU-D2 Interface-Specification | New interface needs to be defined between O-DUs for supporting inter O-DU CA.   D2 Interface document will capture C Plane, U plane details as well synchronization requirement.  Heartbeat management can be taken care of by D2 Interface. |
| 4 | WG10 | WG10 O-RAN O1 Interface Specification  WG10 O-RAN O1 Network Resource Model Specification  WG10 O-RAN O1 Performance Measurements Specification | O1 interface and IM/DM documents can be updated to support configuration of the O-DUs with peer O-DUs information for supporting multi-vendor inter O-DU CA.   Existing yang model can be enhanced to bring in information such as IP address of peer O-DUs, RNTIs, PCI. Faults KPI can also be updated in O1 interface documents. |
| 5 | WG11 | O-RAN.WG11.Security-Requirements-Specification  O-RAN Security Test Specifications | Security documents can be reviewed and updated to support the new interface between O-DUs. It can be considered as interface security. |

### 6.3.4 Feasibility and gain/complexity analysis

Table 6.3.4-1 evaluates the Inter O-DU solution against the solution evaluation criteria listed in clause 5.3.

| Solution Evaluation Criteria | Comment |
| --- | --- |
| Minimize complexity | A new interface connecting multiple O-DUs needs to be defined for supporting spectrum aggregation. This requires defining a management interface for tasks such as to establish and maintain O-DU relations, and SCell associations. A new signaling protocol, for example, to add/remove UE context, transfer user plane data and data flow management is also needed. Time synchronization across O-DUs also need to be specified. Clause 6.3.1 covers more details on complexity. The bandwidth and latency requirements and their impact on performance of carrier aggregation also needs to be evaluated in detail at WI phase. Clause 6.3.1 covers more details on bandwidth and latency requirement. |
| Minimize impact to Inter-operability testing and standardization effort | A new interface requires additional inter-operability testing requirements. Standardization effort requires involving multiple WGs in O-RAN such as WG1, WG5, WG10, and WG11. In addition, other groups such as WG3 or WG6 may be involved to enable additional functionality. |
| Increase performance and lower latency | Performance will not only depend on the details of the signaling protocol designed for the new interface but also on the scheduling and flow control policies of the aggregated SCells residing in different Dus. Flow misconfiguration can adversely impact overall cell throughput. The underlying transport latency amongst different O-DUs can impact CA performance compared with single O-DU solution. In general, intra O-DU CA is expected to have superior performance in terms of user and cell throughput when compared with an inter O-DU solution. Therefore, the choice of interface termination points and solution design should take this into consideration while exploring the potential solutions. Faster activation of CA helps in achieving better performance in bursty UL traffic scenarios, though transport delay between O-DUs may impact it. |
| Minimize impact on O-RAN architecture | A new interface needs to be defined in the O-RAN architecture between O-DUs and requires modification to the existing architecture. The impact on O-RAN depends on the solutions proposed for this new interface and detailed specification would be done in WI. Initial impact on O-RAN architecture is covered in clause 6.3.1. O1 interface need to be enhanced to support D2 interface configuration and LCM. |
| Minimize UE impact | No impact. The solution is assumed to be transparent for the UE. |
| Aligns with 3GPP RAN design | From the UE perspective, the solution is transparent and thus aligned with 3GPP CA architecture. However, to support new interface, MNOs would need to update their O-DU software and/or hardware, depending on their current implementations to enable multi-vendor carrier aggregation. To support inter O-DU CA in beyond 5G, some changes might be required depending on the architecture of beyond 5G that need to be considered at the new RAN design. |
| Increase spectral efficiency of combined carriers | CA provides best spectral efficiency among known spectrum aggregation techniques. However, proper design choices need to be made for the protocol split and interface termination points as different flow management and scheduling policies of disjoint schedulers can adversely impact performance. |
| Increase coverage and capacity | CA provides best coverage and capacity among known spectrum aggregation techniques [i.7]. However, proper design choices need to be made for the protocol split and interface termination points in order to obtain best coverage and capacity for multi-vendor carrier aggregation. |
| Address security concerns with different solutions | The new interface needs a security analysis to be performed by WG11 to ensure the interface has appropriate protections for confidentiality, integrity, availability, authentication, and authorization. This process typically takes one release train and may result in normative requirements specified for the subsequent release train. Analysis and recommended normative security requirements need to be shared with all WGs that are stakeholders for the new interface specification |
| Minimize energy consumption | For DL CA, a single PUCCH on PCell carries the HARQ feedback/CQI etc for all the aggregated carriers while in DC each cell group has a separate carrier for UCI and hence energy consumption by UE will be lower in CA compared to DC [i.8]. From a network perspective, the interface between two or more separate O-DUs can slightly elevate overall network power consumption compared to a single O-DU CA; moreover, in certain deployments like vRANs, the flexibility and scalability offered by a multi-vendor inter-DU interface for CA should also be taken into account in the overall considerations on network energy consumption. |
| Minimize exchange of scheduling-specific information over open interfaces | The new interface should be defined in such a way that scheduling specific information exchange is minimized between the nodes. The information exchange depends on the details of the interface. Depending on the design, the new interface could resemble O-FH and offer limited opportunity for obtaining scheduling information of the primary O-DU. Alternatively, it may require flow control between the schedulers of involved O-DUs; this flow control mechanism may be more detailed as compared to the flow control used for DC due to higher performance requirements of CA.  The mechanism will have to be general enough to handle various schedulers, but this generality may handicap efficiency of the solution (as compared to intra O-DU CA). Proposed solution for the D2 interface is described in clause 6.3.1 and clause 7.3. It outlines the information that may be shared between O-DUs for transfer of user data and control information. |

## 6.4 Solution 3: Dual Connectivity

### 6.4.1 Solution description

In addition, DC can also be used when a UE is connected to two O-DUs, O-DU1/O-RU1 from vendor "a" serving  as MCG and the O-DU2/O-RU2 from vendor "b" serving as SCG, connected to the same O-CU-CP/O-CU-UP as shown in Figure 6.4.1-2.  O-DU and O-RU can also be provided by the same vendor or different vendors.

DC can also be combined with CA to further improve coverage and throughput. In this case, both or either of the nodes providing DC connectivity will have their own CC legs for carrier aggregation. CA can be Intra O-DU as shown for the MN node or Inter O-DU as shown for the SN node in Figure 6.4.1-3 below. Both the CA techniques are described in clause 6.2 and clause 6.3. The related requirement and details for the CA solutions are described in the respective clauses and DC will not impose any new requirement for supporting this scenario.

In the case of spectrum aggregation by DC, MLB can be done via F1 and X2/Xn interface.

### 6.4.2 Mapping to deployment scenarios and other consideration

### 6.4.3 Impact analysis on specifications

Xn and F1 interfaces are well defined in 3GPP specifications. There is no impact on O-RAN working groups.

### 6.4.4 Feasibility and gain/complexity analysis

Table 6.4.4-1 evaluates the Dual Connectivity solution with respect to solution evaluation criteria.

| Solution evaluation criteria | Remarks |
| --- | --- |
| Minimize complexity | No Impact. This is already standardized solution. |
| Minimize impact to inter-operability testing and standardization effort | No Impact. This is already standardized solution. |
| Increase performance and lower latency | Performance depends on the MN-SN flow control which is at higher level at the PDCP layer. |
| Minimize impact on O-RAN architecture | No Impact. DC is a standard solution. |
| Minimize UE impact | No Impact. DC is a standard solution. |
| Align with 3GPP RAN design | No Impact. DC is a standard solution. |
| Increase spectral efficiency of combined carriers | Lesser number of band combinations for DC specified by 3GPP as compared to CA [i.11]. |
| Increase coverage and capacity | Coverage in DC is lesser compared to CA [i.7]. In DC, for each carrier, there is a separate UL PUCCH link for feedback on DL data. This limits the coverage of each DC carrier compared to CA. |
| Address security concerns with different solutions | No impact. DC is a standard solution. |
| Minimize energy consumption | In DC each carrier will have its own UL link for receiving UL data as well as PUCCH. Due to multiple UL links, power consumption at UE is higher compared to CA. |
| Minimize exchange of scheduling-specific information over open interfaces | No information exchange as data split is at higher level. |

# 7 Conclusions and recommendations

## 7.1 Summary of evaluation

In the present document different deployment scenarios are described which are relevant to spectrum aggregation. For a multi-vendor network deployment, the following spectrum aggregation solutions are documented.

- Intra O-DU CA
- Inter O-DU CA
- Dual connectivity
Figure 7.1-1 summarizes the key properties of the three spectrum aggregation solutions. Intra O-DU CA relies on Open FH interface (PHY layer) which enables multi vendor O-RUs. Inter O-DU CA using the D2 interface interconnects the two MAC layers in separate O-DUs. Dual connectivity makes use of PDCP aggregation at the O-CU-UP level. Depening on deployment scenario, one of the three solutions or a combination thereof can be used for spectrum aggregation. A decision tree to help arrive at a solution, considering different deployment scenarios, is described in Annex C.

Table 7.1-1 covers the mapping of different deployment scenarios with the various solutions defined in clause 6.

| Deployment Scenario | DC | Intra O-DU CA | Inter O-DU CA |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Co-located deployments | Supported. |  |  |
| Non-co-located deployments | Supported and capable of supporting distributed O-DUs connected via non-ideal backhaul. | Supported with ideal fronthaul.  Fronthaul latency up to High200 can be supported. | Supported with ideal transport link or with latency up to High200. |

Table 7.1-2 captures the details of each solution against the considerations mentioned in clause 5.3.

| Considerations for each solution | DC | Intra O-DU CA | Inter O-DU CA |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| UE considerations: Maximize CC combinations based on UE capability | In 3GPP Rel 15 specifications, DC is supported only between FR1 and FR2 bands. Also, NR DC support was added later in Rel 15 specification.  Hence UEs supporting 3GPP Rel 15 UEs without NR-DC capability will be limited in CC combinations. Most of the UEs in the market are supporting 3GPP Rel 15 and EN-DC. | As majority of the 5G UEs are supporting 3GPP Rel 15. These UEs are also not supporting NR-DC as well, hence CA can improve CC combinations for spectrum aggregation. (NOTE) | Current majority of the 5G UEs are supporting 3GPP Rel 15. These UEs are also not supporting NR-DC as well, hence CA can improve CC combinations for spectrum aggregation. (NOTE) |
| UE consideration: Energy consumption | In DC, two separate paths for UL & DL direction, one for SCG and MCG, are always present. If there is no UL data, presence of two UL links will increase the power consumption at UE. | In DL CA, multiple UL links across different carriers are not required. Hence, this can reduce power consumption at UE. If DL and UL CA both are active, power consumption at UE can be higher due to the presence of 2 UL links. | In DL CA, multiple UL links across different carriers are not required. Hence, this can reduce power consumption at UE. If DL and UL CA both are active, power consumption at UE can be higher due to presence of 2 UL links. |
| Spectrum consideration: FDD+TDD | Coverage of mid band will improve around 67% [i.7] | Coverage of mid band will improve around 85% [i.7] | Coverage of mid band can improve and may be similar to intra O-DU CA scenario. |
| Spectrum consideration: SUL/SDL | N/A | SUL/SDL carrier in Intra O-DU CA can be used for coverage and performance improvement | SUL/SDL carrier in inter O-DU can be used for coverage and performance improvement. |
| Synchronization consideration | Both synchronous and asynchronous deployments are supported. | All the carriers reside in the same O-DU, therefore no additional synchronization requirements apply. | Tight synchronization (maximum clock timing difference cannot be larger than 33 µs) between O-DUs is needed for supporting inter O-DU CA. |
| Network management considerations | No additional considerations. | SMO can manage the interface between O-DUs. The existing O1 interface between SMO and O-DU can be extended to bring in the configuration for functioning of the new interface. |  |
| NOTE: This is dependent on the UE capability support for different 3GPP releases and NR-DC, which can change in future. |  |  |  |

As there are multiple techniques that can be used for spectrum aggregation, evaluation criteria defined in clause 5.3.6 is used to evaluate each solution. Based on the evaluation criteria, Table 7.1-3 compares the three solutions.

| Solution evaluation criteria | Dual connectivity | Intra O-DU CA | Inter O-DU CA |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Minimize complexity | No impact. | A new interface needs to be defined between the O-DUs. |  |
| Minimize impact to inter-operability testing and standardization effort | No impact. | As a new interface will be defined, it will have impact on inter-operability. |  |
| Increase performance and lower latency | For non-ideal backhaul, DC is the preferred solution. For cell center condition, performance can be similar to inter O-DU CA as UL PUCCH reception on both MCG and SCG links may not show any degradation. In cell edge scenarios, the SCG PUCCH link might be impacted and hence can cause retransmissions. This will impact the throughput. Also in this case, if SCG link drops, activation of the SCG link will take longer due to RRC signaling, which can further impact the performance. | More optimal usage of resources than any other spectrum aggregation technique and thus results in higher end user performance. Lower latency is achieved as spectrum aggregation is done in a single O-DU. | Despite O-DU being interconnected via transport system satisfying the transport requirement, the achieved performance could potentially be lower than intra O-DU CA. This performance degradation is seen as HARQ feedback from PCell to SCell will be delayed by the latency of the underlying transport connecting the O-DUs. Different scheduler running in O-DUs may have impact on performance and latency. |
| Minimize impact on O-RAN architecture | No impact. | Impact on multiple WGs e.g., WG1, WG5, WG10, WG11 etc. |  |
| Minimize UE impact | No impact. |  |  |
| Aligns with 3GPP RAN design | Aligned. |  |  |
| Increase spectral efficiency of combined carriers | Spectral efficiency of DC can be lower in certain scenario (e.g when UE is power limited) due to presence of separate PUCCH link for SCG cell. | Spectral efficiency of CA can be higher due to the reception of SCell PUCCH on PCell, CA can be activated faster than DC which enables optimal usage of available resources and thus improving the overall spectral efficiency. | Spectral efficiency of CA can be higher due to the reception of SCell PUCCH on PCell. CA can be activated faster than DC which enables optimal usage of available resources. However, in Inter O-DU case, delayed HARQ feedback reception at SCell due to transport delay across O-DUs and the need for flow co-ordination among different schedulers can impact overall spectral efficiency. |
| Increase coverage and capacity (Number of users) | Maintenance of two separate UL links, lowers the coverage and capacity gains compared to Intra and Inter O-DU CA. | CA enables maximum coverage and capacity extension of mid/high bands by moving UL control to low/mid band. | Coverage and capacity gain of inter O-DU CA is expected to be similar to intra O-DU CA. |
| Address security concerns with different solutions | DC is a well-defined solution in 3GPP and ORAN so no new security requirements. | Intra O-DU CA is a well-defined solution in 3GPP and ORAN so no new security requirements. | Inter O-DU CA is a new solution hence security aspects need to be defined for the new interface. Existing techniques that are used on F1 can be considered. |
| Minimize exchange of scheduling-specific information over open interfaces | No exchange of scheduling information as data exchange is at higher level | No exchange of scheduling information as CA is within one O-DU | The new interface can be designed such that the input for scheduling the UE (data buffer size etc) can be exchanged without disclosing the proprietary scheduling algorithms and policies. |

As shown in Table 7.1-1, Table 7.1-2 and Table 7.1-3, for supporting spectrum aggregation across non-co-located nodes with non-ideal backhaul, DC is a preferred option. DC can support spectrum aggregation in non-synchronized components. It is a well defined solution in 3GPP and O-RAN. DC is the preferred option for spectrum aggregation between FR1 and FR2.

Table 7.1-2 indicates that CA has more band combinations (also see Table 6.2.2-1) defined in 3GPP specifications. Spectrum aggregation across intra band carriers cannot be achieved by NR DC. CA provides better coverage and capacity compared to DC for mid/high band aggregated with low band cells. If multiple cells are supported in single O-DU, intra O-DU CA with/without Shared O-RU solution can be utilized for spectrum aggregation across different bands to achieve the best coverage and capacity results with least energy consumption.

In a deployment scenario, where different frequency bands are supported in different O-DUs or if an O-DU instance cannot host further cells due to its processing limits, inter O-DU CA (assuming legacy O-DU can be upgraded to support new interface) can be used for achieving the benefits of carrier aggregation. This will be beneficial for both co-located and non-co-located deployments. The new interface between O-DUs can be specified within the transport latency requirements as described in clasue 6.3.1. Coverage and capacity (in terms of users) improvement can be similar to the intra O-DU CA solution. The new interface between O-DUs can provide further flexibility to the MNOs to install RAN NFs as per their need and from different vendors.

## 7.2 Impact on standardization

For intra O-DU CA multi-O-RU scenario and dual connectivity, there is no impact on any WG as it is specified in 3GPP and O-RAN specifications. For intra O-DU CA with shared O-RU, WG4 enhancements may be needed to support dynamic carrier sharing.

There is no direct standardized inter O-DU interface defined in 3GPP or in O-RAN. For supporting inter O-DU carrier aggregation, a new inter O-DU interface, referred to as D2, needs to be defined. Table 6.3.3-1 details the WGs and the specifications impact of standardizing the proposed interface.

Based on the prior Open FH experience, the development timeline of D2 interface is expected to be about 2 years from the start of the work item until the specification can be considered robust enough for the implementation.

## 7.3 Recommendations

The objective of this study is to evaluate spectrum aggregation techniques (carrier aggregation and dual connectivity) in both co-located and non-co-located scenarios utilizing specific assessment criteria. As shown in Table 7.1-1, Table 7.1-2 and Table 7.1-3, dual connectivity is appropriate when a user equipment (UE) connects to two separate cells concurrently, typically with different frequencies (e.g., FR1 and FR2) over non-ideal backhaul links.

In intra O-DU CA (shared O-RU or multi-O-RU) O-DUs, O-RUs can be provided by different vendors.  Intra O-DU CA provides the best coverage and capacity improvement in spectrum aggregation. It can be used in co-located scenarios or deployments where single O-DU will be supporting multiple cells connected to different O-RUs. For non-co-located deployment use cases of clause 5.2.2, this solution can cover all scenarios if the fronthaul connecting the O-RU and O-DU has latency within the latency classes of High25, High75 of Table A-1. The High100 and High200 latency classes can also be supported depending on implementation and performance trade-offs.

Multi-vendor dual connectivity and intra O-DU CA are well-defined in 3GPP specifications and are supported by O-RAN.

For catering to deployment scenarios where different frequency bands are supported in different O-DUs or if an O-DU instance cannot host further cells due to its processing limits, multi-vendor inter O-DU CA can be used for achieving the benefits of spectrum aggregation. This will be beneficial for both co-located and non-co-located deployments. This assumes that legacy O-DUs are upgradable to support the new inter O-DU interface.

## B.1 DL CA using an Inter O-DU interface

In Figure B.1-1,  DL CA between two O-DUs for 2 UEs are shown. In Figure B.1-1, 2 O-DUs are present in the system connected to the same O-CU-UP/O-CU-CP. O-DU1 is configured as PCell for UE1 while O-DU2 is configured as SCell. For UE2, O-DU2 is serving as PCell while O-DU1 is hosting the SCell.

As both the UEs are using O-DUs for inter O-DU CA, for UE1, RLC is hosted in O-DU1. Data is received from O-CU-UP by O-DU1 and data is shared with O-DU2 if SCell is activated. PUCCH for UE1 is also received by O-DU1 and then shared with O-DU2.  For UE2, the same functionality will be observed in O-DU2 (hosting RLC, RRC connection management and receiving data from O-CU-UP.

## B.2 High-level description of Inter O-DU interface (D2)

For supporting inter O-DU CA, a new interface between the O-DUs need to be defined. Figure B.2-1 below proposes the solution for inter O-DU CA where D2 identifies the new interface.

Interface between O-DUs can be defined such that transport requirement as defined in clause 6 can be met. Coverage and capacity improvement can be similar to the intra O-DU CA. A new interface between O-DUs can provide further flexibility to the MNOs to install RAN NFs as per their need and from different vendors.

There are two parts of the D2 interface:

- D2-C: Exchange of control information. SCTP can be used as transport protocol. Link establishment between O-DUs, SCell establishment/release can be taken care by the control part of the D2 interface.
- D2-U: Exchange of data and PUCCH information will be taken care of by the D2-U interface. GTP-U is used for transport mechanisms.
Figure B.2-2 shows a proposed message flow for the D2 interface.


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG1.TR.Use-Cases-Analysis-Report-R004-v18.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG1.TR.Use-Cases-Analysis-Report-R004-v18.00 O-RAN Work Group 1 (Use Cases and Overall Architecture)"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions [given in [i.1] and the following] apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in [i.1]. A1: Interface between Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC to enable policy-driven guidance of Near-RT RIC applications/functions, and support AI/ML workflow. A1 policy: Type of declarative policies expressed using formal statements that enable the Non-RT RIC function in the SMO to guide the Near-RT RIC function, and hence the RAN, towards better fulfilment of the RAN intent. A1 enrichment information: Information utilized by Near-RT RIC that is collected or derived at SMO/Non-RT RIC either from non-network data sources or from network functions themselves. E2: Interface connecting the Near-RT RIC and one or more O-CU-CPs, one or more O-CU-UPs, and one or more O- DUs. E2 node: A logical node terminating E2 interface. In the present document, O-RAN nodes terminating E2 interface are:
- for NR access: O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU or any combination.
- for E-UTRA access: O-eNB.
FCAPS: Fault, Configuration, Accounting, Performance, Security. Intents: A declarative policy to steer or guide the behavior of RAN functions, allowing the RAN function to calculate the optimal result to achieve stated objective. Near-RT RIC: O-RAN Near-Real-Time RAN Intelligent Controller: A logical function that enables near-real-time control and optimization of RAN elements and resources via fine-grained data collection and actions over E2 interface. Non-RT RIC: O-RAN Non-Real-Time RAN Intelligent Controller: A logical function that enables non-real-time control and optimization of RAN elements and resources, AI/ML workflow including model training and updates, and policy- based guidance of applications/features in Near-RT RIC. O-CU: O-RAN Central Unit: A logical node hosting O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP. O-CU-CP: O-RAN Central Unit – Control Plane: A logical node hosting the RRC and the control plane part of the PDCP protocol. O-CU-UP: O-RAN Central Unit – User Plane: A logical node hosting the user plane part of the PDCP protocol and the SDAP protocol. O-DU: O-RAN Distributed Unit: A logical node hosting RLC/MAC/High-PHY layers based on a lower layer functional split. O-RU: O-RAN Radio Unit: A logical node hosting Low-PHY layer and RF processing based on a lower layer functional split. This is similar to 3GPP’s “TRP” or “RRH” but more specific in including the Low-PHY layer (FFT/iFFT, PRACH extraction). O1: Interface between management entities (NMS/EMS/MANO) and O-RAN managed elements, for operation and management, by which FCAPS management, software management, file management can be achieved. RAN: Generally referred as Radio Access Network. In terms of this document, any component below Near-RT RIC per O-RAN architecture, including O-CU/O-DU/O-RU.

## 3.2 Symbols
Void

## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations [given in [i.1] and the following] apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in [i.1]. AI/ML Artificial Intelligence/Machine Learning ASM Advanced Sleep Mode DCCF Data Collection Coordination and Delivery Function EC Energy Consumption EE Energy Efficiency eNB eNodeB (applies to LTE) ES Energy Saving gNB gNodeB (applies to NR) KPI Key Performance Indicator KQI Key Quality Indicator MFAF Messaging Framework Adaptor Function MIMO Multiple Input, Multiple Output NRF Network Repository Function NWDAF NetWork Data Analytics Function PRB Physical Resource Block QoE Quality of Experience RAT Radio Access Technology RIC O-RAN RAN Intelligent Controller SINR Signal-to-Interference-plus-Noise Ratio SSB Synchronization Signal Block UAV Unmanned Aerial Vehicle V2X Vehicle to Everything VM Virtual Machine SMO Service Management and Orchestration UDM Unified Data Management

# 4 Use cases

## 4.1 Context-based dynamic HO management for V2X

### 4.1.1 Background information
V2X communication allows for numerous potential benefits such as increasing the overall road safety, reducing emissions, and saving time. Part of the V2X architecture is the V2X UE (SIM + device attached to vehicle) which communicates with the V2X Application Server (V2X AS). The exchanged information comprises Cooperative Awareness Messages (CAMs) from UE to V2X AS [i.5], radio cell IDs, connection IDs, and basic radio measurements (RSRP, RSRQ etc.).

### 4.1.2 Motivation
As vehicles traverse along a highway, due to their high speed and the heterogeneous natural environment V2X UE-s are handed over frequently, at times in a suboptimal way, which can cause handover (HO) anomalies: e.g., short stay, ping- pong, and wrong cell. Such suboptimal HO sequences substantially impair the functionality of V2X applications. Since HO sequences are mainly determined by the Neighbour Relation Tables (NRTs), maintained by the xNBs, there is hardly room for UE-level customization. This UC aims to present a method to avoid and/or resolve problematic HO scenarios by using past navigation and radio statistics in order to customize HO sequences on a UE level. To this end, the AI/ML functionality that is enabled by the Near-RT RIC is employed.

### 4.1.3 Proposed solution
In order to prevent anomalous HO sequences causing performance degradation for the V2Xs, an xApp can be built with two main functionalities as shown in figure 4.1.3-1. Applying long-term analytics by using AI/ML algorithms is the first function expected from the xApp. As it is suggested by O-RAN framework, non-real-time intelligent management of RAN functions are deployed in the Non-RT RIC. V2X AS maintains the UE-based HO events and mobility data which are shared with Non-RT RIC over O1 interface. Hence, Non-RT RIC can identify causes of HO anomalies and discover optimal HO sequences. Finally, a data base is maintained to keep track of resolutions to anomalies based on these feedbacks. The other function of the xApp is performing real-time optimization which is offered by trained ML model on the Near-RT RIC. Near-RT RIC will monitor UE specific real-time mobility context based on V2X data. Deployed ML model is used to detect/predict unexpected HO events and generate desired HO sequence which can eliminate/avoid HO anomaly. Finally, Near-RT RIC is expected to create and update UE-specific NRTs to improve performance of the V2X users. The xNB is assumed to host, besides the default NRT, also UE-specific NRTs (UE-NRTs) for V2X (and potentially other types of) users. If the UE-NRT for a specific V2X user exists, it is used. If not, the default NRT remains valid. The input samples for handover profiling can come from the V2X AS and the xNB:
- CAMs, navigation data, geo data (position, velocity, direction),
- Radio cell ID, connection ID, basic radio measurements (RSRP, RSRQ etc.),
- Handover event (source and target cell IDs),
- Handover success / error codes.
The long-term analytics function and the real-time optimization function can be thought of as ML training and ML inference, respectively.

### 4.1.4 Benefits of O-RAN architecture
The long-term optimization function can jointly process UE level radio and navigation data. Both the analysis and the prediction functions can employ a range of AI/ML methods, whose availability is facilitated by the O-RAN architecture.

### 4.1.5 Notes
An option for associating the data coming from the gNB and that coming from the V2X AS can be achieved by the ECGI+C-RNTI [i.10][i.18]. The ECGI uniquely identifies the cell, while the C-RNTI uniquely identifies a UE within a cell. The ECGI+C-RNTI pair constitutes a globally unique UE identifier.

## 4.2 Flight path based dynamic UAV radio resource allocation

### 4.2.1 Background information
This use case provides the background, motivation, and requirements for the support the use case of flight path based dynamic UAV radio resource allocation, allowing operators to adjust radio resource allocation policies through the O- RAN architecture, reducing unnecessary handover and improving radio resource utilization.

### 4.2.2 Motivation
The field trials’ results show that the coverage for low altitude is good and can provide various services for terrestrial UEs with good performance. However, since the site along the flight is mainly for terrestrial UEs, the altitude of the UAV is always not within the main lobe of the ground station antenna. And the side lobes give rise to the phenomenon of scattered cell associations particularly noticeable in the sky. The cell association pattern on the ground is ideally contiguous area where the best cell is most often the one closest to the UE. As the UE move up in height, the antenna side lobes start to be visible, and there is a possibility of the best cell no longer being the closest one. The cell association pattern in this particular scenario becomes fragmented especially at the height of 300m and above. Hence, at higher altitudes, several challenges that lead to a different radio environment are:
- LOS propagation/uplink interference
- Poor KPI caused by antenna side lobes for base stations
- Sudden drop in signal strength
These challenges directly impact on the mobility performance of the drone and the service experience of the user. Hence, we would like to support the use case of flight path based dynamic UAV radio resource allocation to resolve the above issues.

### 4.2.3 Proposed solution
To manage resource allocation of UAVs based on flight path, Non-RT RIC retrieves necessary aerial vehicles related metrics from network level measurement reports. Moreover, flight path information of aerial vehicle, climate information, flight forbidden/limitation area information and space load information are received from an application, e.g., UTM (Unmanned Traffic Management) for constructing/training relevant AI/ML model. For example, this could be UL/DL interference from/to aerial vehicles, the detection of aerial vehicle UEs, and available radio resource (e.g., frequency, cell, beam, BWP, numerology) prediction. The Near-RT RIC supports deployment and execution of AI/ML model from Non- RT RIC. Based on this, Near-RT RIC can perform the radio resource allocation for UAVs considering the radio channel condition, flight path information and other application information with on-demand coverage. Moreover, aerial vehicles performance reports should be sent to Non-RT RIC for evaluation and optimization of the ML model. The architectural context of the flight path based dynamic UAV radio resource allocation use case is shown in figure 4.2.3-1.

### 4.2.4 Benefits of O-RAN architecture
An effective functional module, retrieving the application information, performing machine learning and training is not provided by current gNB/eNB architecture. Though, the O-RAN architecture components can collect both the acquired application information and radio environment information and execute AI/ML models based on received information. The flight path based dynamic UAV radio resource allocation mechanism can be supported by the RIC function modules, i.e. Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC. Therefore, we provide the description of O-RAN support use case for flight path based dynamic UAV radio resource.

## 4.3 Radio resource allocation for UAV application scenario

### 4.3.1 Background information
As shown in figure 4.3.1-1, this scenario refers to a rotor UAV flying at low altitude and low speed and carrying cameras, sensors and other devices mounted. The operation terminal uses the 5.8 GHz frequency band remote control the UAV for border/forest inspection, high voltage/base station inspection, field mapping, pollution sampling, and HD live broadcast. At the same time, the UAV control mobile station and the UAV anti-weapon combination provide the UAV control, fight against illegal UAV and other services to ensure low-altitude safety in special areas. The UAV operation terminal, the anti-UAV weapon, and the UAV control mobile station are connected with the UAV control vehicle using 5G network. UAV control vehicle deploys network equipment, including O-CU,O-DU, the Non-RT RIC, the Near-RT RIC function modules and application server (in this use case, it is an edge computing service platform) to provide reliable network services through 5G networks.

### 4.3.2 Motivation
UAV terminal access is a new scenario of 5G networks. It has a large amount of high real-time data that is more suitable for local processing. For the existing radio resource allocation strategy, there is no solution for such uplink high-rate data transmission. In this use case, UAV control vehicle is required to provide reliable network services through 5G networks. The data of the UAV terminal interacting with the network includes control data and application data, and the control data includes navigation commands, configuration changes, flight status data reporting, etc. Control data requires low latency and low bandwidth requirements. The application data includes 4K high-definition video data, which has obvious uplink and downlink service asymmetry, and the uplink has high requirements on network bandwidth. The UAV control vehicle deploys edge computing services that application services and content are placed on the edge instead of core network so that local processing of video and control information can be managed. At the same time, real- time data services can be provided to third-party applications through a video server.

### 4.3.3 Proposed solution
As shown in figure 4.3.3-1, this use case involves two options of network architecture. Option A is that O-CU, O-DU and Near-RT RIC are deployed on the control vehicle, Non-RT RIC and core network are deployed on the central cloud. The control vehicle is connected to core network and Non-RT RIC via fiber optics. Option B is a private network, all modules, including the gNB, Near-RT RIC, Non-RT RIC and the necessary core network function modules, are deployed in the control vehicle. In both deployment options, radio resource allocation for UAV application use case requires some of the basic functionalities of the O-RAN components. Non-RT RIC should retrieve UE-level radio resource requirements from application server to generate UE based radio resource allocation policies. In this scenario, Near-RT RIC should support execution and interpretation of retrieved policies to create configuration parameters to be applied on the E2 nodes. In addition to UE-specific radio resource adjustment with respect to received parameters, E2 nodes should provide information about UE registration or UE status change to Near-RT RIC so that it can be transferred to application server. As it is stated in previous clause, UAV terminals require low latency and high throughput in the uplink direction. For this reason, application server is needed to receive user plane data from UAV terminals.

### 4.3.4 Benefits of O-RAN architecture
The 5G network supports real-time high-definition video transmission and remote low-latency control of UAV, and finally provides various industry services such as inspection, security, surveying, and mapping. In the UAV control vehicle application scenario, there are a small amount of control data interaction requirements between the terminal and the network interaction, as well as the large bandwidth requirements for uploading HD video. The service asymmetry raises new requirements for resource allocation of the gNB. At the same time, the existing network operation and maintenance management platform (OSS system) can only optimize the parameters of a specific group of UEs, but not for individual users. Therefore, under the O-RAN architecture, the radio resource requirements for different terminals are sent to the gNB for execution by means of the Near-RT RIC function module. The UAV control vehicle has flexible layout features. In this use case, the application service and content are deployed on the edge computing platform instead of the core network; the Non-RT RIC function module is used to schedule radio resources instead of the core network's QoS mechanism. In this way, the load and overhead of the core network can be reduced, and the forwarding and processing time in data transmission can be reduced, and the delay can be reduced.

## 4.4 QoE optimization

### 4.4.1 Background information
Highly demanding 5G native applications like cloud VR and industrial automation are both bandwidth consuming and latency sensitive. Demanding contemporary 4G and 5G applications like online multiplayer gaming and connected vehicles are today often handled in a best effort way with low or no application specific optimization. These traffic- intensive and highly interactive applications are not well served by current semi-static QoS framework which does not efficiently satisfy diversified QoE requirements. These requirements can vary during an application lifetime, especially taking into account potentially significant fluctuation of radio transmission capability and applications with dynamic performance requirements. It is expected that QoE estimation/prediction from application level can help deal with such uncertainty and improve the efficiency of radio resources, and eventually improve user experience and yield a more efficient use of RAN resources. Furthermore, an increased set of mobile applications with varying QoE demands will increasingly become unmanageable if semi-static profiles are “preloaded” into the relevant RAN nodes without a more automated closed-loop approach. RAN performance exposure to an external application are also envisioned to be helpful for the application to improve the user experience.

### 4.4.2 Motivation
The main objective is to ensure QoE optimization be supported within the O-RAN architecture and its open interfaces in a way that allows per-user, slice or 5QI flow modification of RAN behavior, features, scheduling procedures and other configuration based on user application requirements or other input. This includes: 1. A user-centric QoE policy approach. Input from external systems, such as user applications, can be used to set or request specific RAN behavior automatically and without preloading of static configuration data and QoS profiles into E2 Nodes. Feedback is provided to these systems on the acceptance of the request. 2. A user-centric QoE update and feedback approach. During a user or application session lifetime, a closed-loop including the user application or other external input can provide enriched performance targets to the RAN, varying the targeted performance in response to these external factors. Feedback is provided to the requesting source on the RAN performance for measurement against an SLA or for the application itself to take action to improve the user QoE. 3. Using AI / ML approaches embedded in the RAN. Multi-dimensional data, e.g., user traffic data, QoE measurements, network measurement report, can be acquired and processed via ML algorithms to support traffic recognition, QoE prediction, QoS enforcement decisions. ML models can be trained offline and model inference will be executed in a real-time manner. 4. Radio performance analytics and exposure. Based on the data analysis and ML algorithms, Near-RT RIC provides either statistics or predictions on the cell level or UE level, e.g., traffic rate, latency, packet loss rate. Furthermore, Near-RT RIC can expose the real time RAN analytics information to the external applications, and helps external applications to execute logic control, e.g., TCP sending window adjustment, video coding rate selection to improve the user QoE. The use case focus is a general solution that supports any specific QoE use case (e.g., cloud VR, video, gaming, connected vehicles, etc.).

### 4.4.3 Proposed solution
Traditional technologies involve manual configuration of RAN parameters for the congested cells to improve QoE of the network users. This can include per-site or per-cell parameter modification to target congested cells, or deployment of network-wide configurations to create application or user specific handling policies. The O-RAN architecture facilitates QoE optimization in a real-time way with proactive closed-loop network optimization, both within the RAN and including input from external applications. This will improve the way congested cells are detected and automatically allocate resources based on the end user experience, whose demands can change over time. The proposed solution consists of O-RAN components, Non-RT RIC, Near-RT RIC and E2 nodes, empowered with machine learning algorithms and user, slice or 5QI flow-centric feature and QoS modification interfaces. The solution introduces a “user RAN policy”, hosted at the Non-RT RIC (3.4.3.2) or Near-RT RIC (3.4.3.3). The user RAN policy will be instantiated as an rApp or xApp which will apply the operator’s desired QoE configuration for specific user, slice or 5QI flow types on the network in response to requests from external systems or in response to UE mobility, and provide feedback and reporting mechanisms, including SLA information, to external systems which are hosting the user application(s). The solution also includes exposing per-user or per-cell radio performance analytics information to external applications, and the application can optimize user QoE based on the RAN analytics information.

#### 4.4.3.1 User-centric QoE connection policy
This solution is expected to be invoked in response to changes in the applications being delivered to a UE, updates in the intended use-case handling behavior by an operator, implementation of a new network slice within the network, or mobility of a UE to a node which requires an update of the relevant handling policy. The concept of QoE connection policy application is shown in figure 4.4.3.1-1. The Non-RT RIC hosts a RAN QoE connection policy configuration which can be modified by operators to apply RAN connection level behaviors to a network slice, 5QI flow per device, specific user types or specific user ID(s). The Non-RT RIC will use the O1 interface to activate and configure the features of a particular QoE connection policy as they are needed across the network, while the A1 interface is used to request policy updates from the Non-RT RIC by specific network nodes (policy request) and by the Non-RT RIC to communicate the performance handling features that apply to a specific user, slice or 5QI flow (user-centric QoE connection policy). For example, in response to an A1 interface policy request: The O1 interface is first used to implement or update a constellation of carrier aggregation configuration, traffic steering, mobility, power control or scheduling priority or other behaviors (e.g. DRX) as a constellation of features which can be referred to by a feature activation policy index. The A1 interface is then used to indicate the users or flows this set of features is to be applied to. E2 nodes provide updated RAN user state information with sufficient granularity to the Near-RT RIC to trigger policy requests as needed.

#### 4.4.3.2 User-centric QoE performance policy, Non-RT RIC
This solution is expected to be invoked in response to changes in the user experience which could happen at any time during the lifetime of an application or session. This will typically operate as a continuous closed-loop including feedback from the user application(s). The concept of QoE performance policy application, Non-RT RIC version is shown in figure 4.4.3.2-1. In (a), the Non-RT RIC hosts a RAN QoE performance policy configuration which accepts input from external systems (user application or via other SMO/BSS functions) that provide closed-loop feedback on the user experience. This will be translated into a user-centric performance policy which is communicated via the A1 interface towards the Near-RT RIC which in turn, enforces these policies on the set of E2 nodes which currently host UEs of the type configured in the performance policy. For example, this policy would include specific latency, bitrate, and jitter targets which are used in conjunction with the connection policy described at 4.4.3.1 to determine how a specific user is handled in real time. An alternative, optional approach is shown at (b), which instead uses application layer measurement reporting from the UE to the RAN as defined in [i.43] (MeasReportAppLayer RRC Container) and [i.12] for LTE and in [i.21] (MeasurementReportAppLayer RRC Container) and [i.12] for NR. This approach is complementary to (a) and will be limited to those user applications with access to UE AT interfaces or appropriate middleware, and so is not universally applicable. The MeasReportAppLayer is forwarded from the RAN to a QoE handling node (outside of the O-RAN architecture) and provides input to the Non-RT RIC analogous to the external system but with reduced latency. E2 nodes provide updated user state information with sufficient granularity to allow for the distribution of connection policy, and PMs with required granularity to SMO to report on performance KPIs given the performance policy targets. This is then used to determine if an agreed performance target or SLA has been met, or alternatively, to indicate the RAN performance to an external application which can itself take action to improve the user QoE.

#### 4.4.3.3 User-centric QoE performance policy, Near-RT RIC
This solution has the same set of usage patterns as described at 4.4.3.2, except the RAN QoE performance policy configuration is moved to the Near-RT RIC. This solution is only expected to be necessary to support QoE input from edge-hosted applications co-located with the Near-RT RIC or CU-UP nodes. The concept of QoE performance policy application, Near-RT RIC version is shown in figure 4.4.3.3-1. In (a), the edge hosted external app provides input to the Near-RT RIC. The specific interface used is not defined here and can be vendor specific or part of a future O-RAN release. In the (b) variant, which instead uses application layer measurement reporting [i.21][i.12], the QoE handler is also implemented at the edge location, with MeasReportAppLayer RRC containers forwarded for handling and then providing input to the Near-RT RIC rather than relying on the external app.

#### 4.4.3.4 AI/ML QoE enhancements
The concept of AI/ML QoE enhancements is shown in figure 4.4.3.4-1. The Non-RT RIC will construct AI/ML models trained with data retrieved from SMO, network level measurements and policies to be sent Near-RT RIC for managing RAN parameters. The ML model will be deployed in the Near-RT RIC to assist QoE optimization such as making predictions on application/traffic types, QoE and available bandwidth. To achieve all these functions, E2 nodes should provide the PMs with required granularity to SMO over O1 and to the Near-RT RIC over E2. Also, RRM behaviour updates should be allowed by E2 nodes through E2 to support QoS enforcement.

#### 4.4.3.5 Radio performance analytics
SMO(Non-RT RIC) Radio performance RAN data prediction rApp collectioin (AI/ML Model Training) O1 A1 Near-RT RIC O1 RAN data Radio performance Local NEF N33 External App prediction xApp collectioin (AI/ML Model Inference) E2 RAN expose radio performance through UE local NEF to external applications

# S M

# R A N data
collectioin

# R A N data
collectioin E2 O N (N o n -R T R IC ) R adio perform ance prediction rA pp (A I/M L M odel T raining)

# R A N

# U E

# M E C A p p S erv e r

# M E C A pp
expose radio perform ance to the applications in

# M E C A pp server
This solution is expected to be invoked when the external application requests for RAN performance from Near-RT RIC. In response to application requests, Near-RT RIC subscribes measurements through E2 interface and runs radio performance prediction model to generate predicted performance for a specific UE or cell. As shown in figure 4.4.3.5-1, Near-RT RIC exposes radio performance prediction information through local NEF (defined in 3GPP) to external apps. As shown in figure 4.4.3.5-2, Near-RT RIC exposes radio performance prediction information directly to MEC app deployed in MEC app server (defined in ETSI MEC). External application receives radio performance prediction information and executes logic control based on the service and user requirements, e.g., for 4K/8K/VR videos, application could execute TCP sending window adjustment, video coding rate selection to improve user experience.

### 4.4.4 Benefits of O-RAN architecture
The proposed solution to support a real-time QoE optimization for any specific use e.g., cloud VR, video. It requires features provided by O-RAN architecture to orchestrate these requirements via interoperable A1/O1/E2 interfaces and including input from external systems and user applications. Retrieving measurement metrics, AI/ML training and executing the AI/ML model in near-real-time are also offered by the O-RAN architecture.

## 4.5 Traffic steering

### 4.5.1 Background information
5G systems will support many different combinations of access technologies namely, LTE (licensed band), NR (licensed band), NR-U (unlicensed band), Wi-Fi (unlicensed band), (see TR 38.889 [i.3]). Several different multi-access deployment scenarios are possible with 5GC to support wide variety of applications and satisfy the spectrum requirements of different service providers.
- Carrier aggregation between licensed band NR (primary cell) and NR-U (secondary cell)
- Dual connectivity between licensed band NR (primary cell) and NR-U (secondary cell)
- Dual connectivity between licensed band LTE (primary cell) and NR-U (secondary cell)
- Dual connectivity between licensed band NR (primary cell) and Wi-Fi (secondary cell)
> NOTE: The scenario of dual connectivity between NR and Wi-Fi is not defined in the present document.
The traffic steering use case allows, using the A1 interface, flexibly configure the desired optimization policies and utilize the appropriate performance criteria to proactively manage user traffic across different access technologies. A1 interface can also provide the enrichment information, e.g., radio fingerprint information based on the data analytics of the historical RAN data

### 4.5.2 Motivation
Imbalances in the traffic load across cells of different access technologies, or variances in their available bandwidth and QoS attributes, can give rise to situations with suboptimal spectrum utilization and negative impact on the user experience. The 3GPP Self-Organizing Network (SON) function Mobility Load Balancing (MLB) is the legacy approach to improve the user experience by balancing the load through optimization of the handover triggers and handover decisions using load information shared between neighbouring cells. Normally all users are treated equally in this respect. In addition, the statistical characteristics of the radio network information have not been fully exploited and utilized to enhance the network and user experience performance.

### 4.5.3 Proposed solution

#### 4.5.3.1 Policy-based traffic management optimization
Impairments of the user experience due to local load imbalances across cells, or due to variances in their available bandwidth offered, are example scenarios addressed by traffic management policies over the A1 interface. The traffic management policy allows allocating cells in order of priority to individual users, for the control plane and user plane respectively. A traffic management policy could be issued for any reason, e.g. reasons not known to the RAN. The Non-RT RIC monitors the user experience by UE level performance measurements and the resource utilization on cell level. The Non-RT RIC assesses the observed performance vs. the expected service level requirements. If the requirements are breached the Non-RT RIC locates the cell where the breach is detected and assesses the local load or bandwidth conditions in the associated cells. It can desire to relocate one or more users to other cells e.g., in order to increase their available radio resources, offer increased bandwidth, desire to off-load a certain cell to improve conditions for the remaining users, or for any other reason. Further in a multi-access system, apart from selecting the appropriate access technology to steer the traffic, there is a need to switch the traffic across different access technologies based on changes in radio environment and application requirements and even split the traffic across multiple access technologies to satisfy performance requirements. The different types of traffic and frequency bands in a commercial network can require appropriate bearer selection (Master Cell Group (MCG) bearer, Secondary Cell Group (SCG) bearer, split bearer) and bearer type change for achieving load balancing, low latency and best in class throughput in a multi-access scenario with 5GC networks., (see TS 37.340 [i.20]). The Non-RT RIC creates corresponding traffic management policies directed to identify UEs expressing the priority order of cells to be allocated to each one for their control planes and user planes respectively. The policies are sent over the A1 interface to the Near-RT RIC, who uses the policies when enforcing the radio resource control.

#### 4.5.3.2 Enrichment information-based traffic steering optimization
The current traffic management solutions are usually implemented by relocating users among cells, which highly depends on the Measurement Report (MR) from the UE feedback. The statistical characteristics of the radio network and the UE behaviors information have not been fully exploited and utilized to enhance the network and user experience performance. The enrichment information can be utilized to optimize traffic management performance. The enrichment data could include network radio fingerprint information, UE trajectory information (e.g., way points in cell-level or beam-level), UE mobility profile (e.g., stationary, horizontal, vertical speed), UE service type (e.g., delay sensitivity or bit error rate sensitive), traffic pattern (e.g., average UL/DL packet size, periodicity). With the assistance of the enrichment information provided by Non-RT RIC, Near-RT RIC can efficiently derive optimized solutions. For example, Non-RT RIC can derive the radio fingerprint enrichment information via the data statistical analysis of historical measurement results. The radio fingerprint information captures the mapping relationship of the intra-frequency measurement results and the inter-frequency measurements. Then Non-RT RIC can deliver it to Near-RT RIC to help it predict the inter-frequency measurement, reduce the unnecessary inter-frequency measurement, accelerate the process of traffic optimization and improve the network system performance and user experience.

### 4.5.4 Benefits of O-RAN architecture
The use case explores the opportunity with the policy based A1 interface allowing to address specific users to obtain an intent driven by e.g. UE specific service level requirements.

## 4.6 Massive MIMO optimization

### 4.6.1 Background information
Massive MIMO is seen as one of the key technologies for 5G. Due to the multi-antenna transmission and reception, this technology can inherently to provide diversity and improve capacity by targeting high gain antenna beams towards one or multiple subscribers, thus improving the receive power levels and spatially filtering the interference from neighboring subscribers and transmission points. In addition, a spatial multiplexing operations regime can improve the network capacity by transferring multiple data streams towards/from one or different subscribers utilizing a spatial re-use of the scarce time/frequency resource blocks. Further advantages include the controlling of electromagnetic (EM) emissions or advanced network management technologies like beam shaping, beam-based load balancing, optimized beam mobility, adaptive cell coverage areas, especially in highly dense urban 3D environments and mobile subscribers. In order to further optimize networks, e.g., maximize spectral efficiency, optimize coverage, or maximize cell capacity, fully digital beamforming (BF) methods are to be employed for below 6 GHz frequency wireless telecommunications. Grid of Beams (GoB) is a BF method which aims at selectively covering regions of interest with a suitable subset of radio beams (chosen from a dictionary of possible beams). Beam-based mobility robustness optimization is a BF method enhancing beam specific mobility performance e.g., by adding beam specific individual offsets. Mobility robustness optimization is a well- known SON concept [i.19]. First supporting measurements have been specified in LTE in Release 9 [i.18].

### 4.6.2 Motivation
The massive MIMO BF optimization use case aims at proactively and continuously improving cell and/or user-centric coverage, capacity and mobility performance in a massive MIMO deployment area by adapting beam configurations (e.g., number of beams, beam boresights, vertical beam widths, horizontal beam widths, beam black lists/white lists, beam mobility thresholds) in a multi-cell, possibly multi-vendor, deployment scenario to non-real time (e.g., 3D construction, 3D terrain topology, network, weather seasons, intra-day cell splitting/merging/shaping, traffic distribution, beam conflicts) and near-real time (e.g., moving users/hotspots, changing traffic distribution, crowd source data) changes. The high number of configuration parameters per array antenna, the amount of available measurement input data, the complexity, pro-activeness as well as non- and near-real time requirements suggest the application of machine learning techniques of input data analytics as well as use case decision generation. The objective of this use case is to allow the operator to flexibly configure massive MIMO system parameters by means of policies, configuration or machine learning techniques, according to objectives defined by the operator.

### 4.6.3 Proposed solution
1) The performance of BF is strongly dependent on the choice of the beam pattern. Traditional GoB solutions do not take contextual/per-site information into account and operate with a narrow set of manually predefined beam patterns. Contextual/per-site information is, among others, comprised of cell geometry and other cell parameters, antenna array parameters, real-time or long-term (e.g., seasonal) traffic patterns, real-time or long-term user mobility patterns etc. One goal of this use case is to demonstrate that by taking contextual/per-site information into account, GoB/mMIMO BF can enhance the network performance by allowing the operator to perform extensive BF customization and optimization. 2) A key factor in multi-user (MU) mMIMO is the management of Beam Failures (BFAs). In order to prevent connectivity and user experience degradation, two AI/ML based beam mobility optimization solutions are proposed. In this use case three optimization loops for mMIMO BF are proposed (see figure 4.6.3-1): 1) An outer, Non-RT loop massive MIMO GoB beam forming optimization 2) An inner, Near-RT loop massive MIMO beam-based mobility robustness optimization 3) An inner, Near-RT loop massive MIMO beam selection optimization The two optimization loops can be implemented and deployed either individually or jointly in a nested fashion.

#### 4.6.3.1 Non-RT massive MIMO GoB beam forming optimization
The concept of Non-RT Beam Forming (BF) optimization is shown in figure 4.6.3.1-1. Non-RT RIC hosts an application with long-term analytics function (=ML training, Non-RT RIC), whose task is to collect, process and analyze antenna array parameters, cell performance KPIs, UE mobility/spatial density data, traffic density data, interference data and BF gain/beam RSRP and MDT measurement data. The input data for BF optimization training and inference can be comprised of [i.2] antenna timing advance and angle- of-arrival measurements (for positioning estimation unless derived from another entity), aggregated & preprocessed beam-based reference signal measurements (average) traffic density measurements (across the respective mMIMO spatial grid) with associated positioning information, CSI measurements or, power headroom reports (PHRs), neighboring cells' beams/interference information and beam RSRPs/gains as well as cell performance measurements such as handover and beam failure statistics. The output of the BF optimization inference can be optimized BF configuration, number of beams, beam elevation, beam horizontal & vertical widths and power allocation of beams. The long-term analytics function and the BF optimization function can be thought of as ML training and ML inference, respectively. Operator objectives can include desired coverage, defined in terms of the cell geometry (SSB beams), cell capacity requirements (CSI-RS beams), per UE cell edge throughput and traffic density weighted average RSRP and BF gain requirements. (E.g., the operator might wish to implement the strategy to cover low-density areas with wide beams and high-density areas with narrow beams.)

#### 4.6.3.2 Near-RT massive MIMO beam-based Mobility Robustness Optimization
(bMRO) The concept of Near-RT beam-based mobility robustness optimization is shown in figure 4.6.3.2-1. Near-RT RIC hosts an xApp with BF optimization function (=ML inference, Near-RT RIC), whose task is to monitor UE/traffic density measurements, UE positioning information, beam-based mobility and beam failure KPIs and select/deploy optimized mMIMO BF parameters to E2 nodes. The Near-RT RIC can host an xApp to optimize inter-cell beam mobility such as a beam-based mobility robustness optimization. In this case the Near-RT RIC might for instance configure beam individual offsets for inter-cell mobility decisions. The Near-RT bMRO function can run individually, without the Non-RT BF optimization. However, it can be deployed in a nested fashion within a Non-RT BF optimization loop. In that case, upon change of the GoB configuration, the Near- RT bMRO function is reset or reconfigured. There are several options for coordinating the outer and the inner loops such as: 1) The outer loop's output comes from a finite set of configurations, and to each configuration the inner loop employs a trained model. 2) The inner loop employs a reinforcement or adaptive learning technique which is reset upon change of the GoB configuration, or, depending on implementation, adapted to it. Non-RT RIC hosts an application with long-term analytics function (=ML training, Non-RT RIC), whose task is to collect and analyze underlying GoB configuration, if GoB configuration exists, beam mobility and failure statistics, L1/L2 RSRP values, potential source-target beam pairs. Near-RT RIC hosts an xApp with bMRO optimization function (=ML inference, Near-RT RIC), whose task is to monitor potential source-target beam pairs and optimize beam mobility for scheduling by managing user-beam pairing. The input data for beam mobility robustness optimization training and inference can be comprised of [i.2] per-user measurements (e.g., RSRP, SINR, etc.), handover failure statistics (e.g., overall HO failures, too early or to late or HO to wrong cell), such as number of BFAs, times of BFAs, BFA rate etc., per-user potential source-target beam pairs and neighbouring cells' beams/interference information. The output of the bMRO optimization function can be [i.19] adjusted offsets for candidate source-target beam pairs for beam mobility. The long-term analytics function and the bMRO function can be thought of as ML training and ML inference, respectively. Operator objectives can include minimization of BFA rate for a group of users (e.g., high-mobility users).

#### 4.6.3.3 Near-RT massive MIMO Beam Selection Optimization (BSO)
The concept of Near-RT Beam Selection Optimized (BSO) function is shown in figure 4.6.3.3-1. Near-RT RIC hosts an xApp with BF optimization function (=ML inference, Near-RT RIC), whose task is to monitor UE/traffic density measurements, UE positioning information, beam-based mobility, and beam failure KPIs and select/deploy optimized mMIMO BF parameters to E2 nodes. The Near-RT RIC can host an xApp to optimize intra-cell beam mobility. In this case the Near-RT RIC might for instance configure parameters for intra-cell beam switching decisions. The Near-RT BSO function can run individually, without the Non-RT BF optimization. However, it can be deployed in a nested fashion within a Non-RT BF optimization loop. In that case, upon change of the GoB configuration, the Near-RT BSO function is reset or reconfigured. There are several options for coordinating the outer and the inner loops such as: 1) The outer loop's output comes from a finite set of configurations, and to each configuration the inner loop employs a trained model. 2) The inner loop employs a reinforcement or adaptive learning technique which is reset upon change of the GoB configuration, or, depending on implementation, adapted to it. Non-RT RIC hosts an application with long-term analytics function (=ML training, Non-RT RIC), whose task is to collect and analyze underlying GoB configuration, if GoB configuration exists, beam mobility and failure statistics, L1/L2 RSRP values, potential source-target beam pairs. Near-RT RIC hosts an xApp with BSO function (=ML inference, Near-RT RIC), whose task is to monitor potential source- target beam pairs, and to optimize beam mobility for scheduling by managing user-beam pairing. The input data for BSO training and inference can be comprised of per-user measurements (e.g. RSRP, SINR etc.), beam failure statistics, per-user potential source-target beam pairs and neighbouring cells' beams/interference information. The output of the BSO optimization function can be adjusted offsets for candidate source-target beam pairs for beam mobility. The long-term analytics function and the BSO function can be thought of as ML training and ML inference, respectively. Operator objectives can include minimization of BFA rate for a group of users (e.g., high-mobility users).

### 4.6.4 Benefits of O-RAN architecture
The advantages the O-RAN architecture provides to this use case include the chance to apply and combine both, non- and near real-time analytics, machine-learning, and decision making for various sub-tasks of this use case for a cell-centric and /or user (group) centric point of view. The Non-RT RIC oversees by definition the long-term traffic-, coverage-, and interference situation etc., in a whole cluster of cells. O-RAN interfaces such as O1, A1, and E2 will support necessary data, policy, and configuration exchanges between the architectural elements. By taking contextual information and past failure statistics into account, mMIMO BF can be much more customized and thus achieve purposeful operator desires/requirements. Optimized mMIMO BF depends on the collection, processing, and the analysis of both non-real- time and real-time cell-/UE-level data, which is facilitated by the O-RAN architecture.

## 4.7 RAN sharing

### 4.7.1 Background information
One of the main challenges for network operators is to deploy a massive number of services, while providing different Quality of Service (QoS) requirements and keeping reasonable the level of investment in the network. Network sharing is envisioned as an efficient and sustainable way to accelerate the deployment of 5G, while taking advantage of a common pool of physical infrastructures and resources, made available for two or more partner operators. Besides, regulatory requirements often force operators to provide coverage in not business attractive areas, causing profitability issues. To this end, RAN sharing is seen as a promising solution that can reduce network costs, increase network capacity and coverage, while enhancing customer satisfaction. Accordingly, the open and multi-vendor nature of the O-RAN architecture can accelerate the introduction and development of RAN sharing solutions, by enhancing the deployment of Virtual Network Functions (VNF) on commodity shared hardware, while taking into account diverse QoS requirements. Among the different RAN sharing models that have been experimented so far, a special focus is put here on the evaluation of the compatibility of the “geographical split” RAN sharing model with the O-RAN architecture. In such a model, a coverage area is split between two or more operators; each operator manages the RAN in a specific area, while offering access to its RAN resources to its operator partners. Two main configurations have been used worldwide [i.6] Multi- Operator Core Network (MOCN) and Multi-Operator RAN (MORAN). In MOCN, both the RAN infrastructure and carriers are pooled. Even though this model enables further cost saving, especially in rural areas due to a lower number of carriers, it requires the presence of a regulatory entity that takes care of the allocation of different parts of the shared spectrum between operators. Conversely, in MORAN, each operator utilizes a separate carrier, while getting more freedom and independency on the control of the radio resources. MORAN is the most widely used sharing configuration as it can provide appropriate independency to each sharing partner operator, while maximizing the benefits of sharing in terms of CAPEX and OPEX. Besides, the O-RAN architecture can provide new opportunities for implementing this RAN sharing model in a more efficient way, thanks to its multi-vendor interfaces and abstraction control provided by the RIC (RAN Intelligent Controller). Accordingly, O-RAN can accelerate the deployment of 3GPP-based solutions by providing more flexibility in the management of the shared resources.

### 4.7.2 Motivation
3GPP has specified RAN sharing procedures for 5G in [i.11][i.2] and analyzed RAN sharing scenarios for aggregated and disaggregated architectures [i.4]. Two options are discussed in 3GPP: 1) both gNB-CU and gNB-DU are shared or 2) only the gNB-DU is shared, with possibility to have a different gNB-CU for each operator. However, 3GPP does not cover the analysis of RAN sharing scenarios with LLS functional split (i.e., in O-RAN case; O- DU/O-RU), while the coordination between HLS functional split (i.e., in O-RAN case O-CU and O-DU) belonging to different operators is left to implementation (not standardized). In this context, O-RAN can be seen as the ideal enabler of the 3GPP RAN sharing model by providing the required coordination between the shared network nodes and management layer. To this end, the SMO/O-Cloud can enable the coordination of multiple O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP and O-DU, while opening the road for diverse RAN sharing scenarios. Moreover, O-RAN can accelerate the deployment of 5G RAN sharing solutions by taking advantage of the open fronthaul split. This can enable different multi-supplier configurations of O-DUs and O-RUs, while providing more flexibility to the sorts of configurations that the operators sharing the same RAN can deploy.

### 4.7.3 Proposed solution
The logic architecture of the proposed MORAN use case is given in figure 4.7.3-1. It is assumed that two operators, denoted as operator A and operator B, share the same RAN infrastructure, while keeping the core network independent. Specifically, operator A owns the site A and shares the PHY layer (LOW) with operator B (Shared O-RU shown in figure 4.7.3-1). Indeed, multiple PLMN IDs are broadcasted [i.6], while each operator operates in a different carrier. Moreover, site A hosts VNF instances of operator B in a shared O-DU and O-CU site. Specifically, the computing resources of the site A are shared among multiple VNFs, belonging to the operator A and B respectively. Each VNF represents a logic implementation of the O-DU and O-CU functionalities and should be controlled by each partner operator in an independent manner. While operator A can directly control its VNFs, operator B needs to control its VNFs in a remote manner. The challenge here is to enable operator B to control resources in an infrastructure that is owned by another operator. Accordingly, it is assumed that operator B can monitor and control the remoted resources via the RIC node of site B. Note that in the proposed architecture, the RIC are not shared and kept independent at the site A and B respectively. Such a scenario presents a set of implementation challenges:
- A common interface is needed to control and coordinate the usage of shared resources.
- An orchestrator has to be able to communicate effectively with the shared nodes regardless of the manufacturer
or vendor of the used hardware devices. To this end, this use case proposes to enable operator B to remote control the O-CU and O-DU VNFs via a “remote E2 interface”, giving it the freedom to implement and configure its RIC policies in an autonomous manner. Besides, it is assumed that operator A instantiates all the network nodes in site A, including the VNFs of operator B, via the O2 interface, while the management and orchestration is provided by Service & Orchestration Framework. To better orchestrate the shared resources, the Service & Orchestration Framework of site A should interact with the one of operator B. This interaction can be enabled as follows:
- by designing a new interface between the Service & Orchestration Framework of the two sites (RAN sharing
orchestration interface in figure 4.7.3-1)
- by enabling the operator B to directly orchestrate its VNFs deployed in site A via “remote O1 & O2” interfaces.
Regarding the control plane, it is assumed that operator A can control only the shared physical resources, while operator B can handle only the virtual resources that belong to it. The “remote E2” interface should provide secure access to operator’s A site, while from the operator B RIC perspective, the O-DU and O-CU VNFs hosted at site A should be controlled in a transparent manner as in non-shared scenario. Finally, this use case proposes an extension of the E2 interface in order to support the remote control of shared resources, while taking account security aspects related to the risk of: i) offering to an external actor the possibility to have access to the resources of the hosting RAN infrastructure, and ii) enabling an external actor to orchestrate the resources of the partner operator.

### 4.7.4 Benefits of O-RAN architecture
The proposed MORAN sharing architecture shown in figure 4.7.3-1 lets operators to configure shared network resources independently from configuration and operating strategies of the other sharing operators. Accordingly, this architecture enables the RIC of the operator B to monitor the radio state of the customers served by the partner operator’s site, facilitating the optimization of the radio allocation process and the remote configuration of QoS parameters. Moreover, this approach can favour the deployment of slicing scenarios facilitating the differentiation of services running on the shared RAN.

## 4.8 QoS based resource optimization

### 4.8.1 Background information
QoS based resource optimization can be used when the network has been configured to provide some kind of preferential QoS for certain users. One such scenario can be related to when the network has been configured to support e2e slices. In this case, the network has functionality that ensures resource isolation between slices as well as functionality to monitor that slice Service Level Specifications (SLS) are fulfilled. In RAN, it is the scheduler that ensures that Physical Resource Block (PRB) resources are isolated between slices in the best possible way and also that the PRB resources are used in an optimal way to best fulfill the SLS for different slices. The desired default RAN behavior for slices is configured over O1. For example, the ratio of physical resources (PRBs) reserved for a slice is configured at slice creation (instantiation) over O1. Also, QoS can be configured to guide the RAN scheduler how to (in real-time) allocate PRB resources to different users to best fulfill the SLS of a specific slice. In the NR NRM this is described by the resource partition attribute. Instantiation of a RAN sub-slice will be prepared by rigorous planning to understand to what extent deployed RAN resources will be able to support RAN sub-slice SLS. Part of this procedure is to configure RAN functionality according to above. With this, a default behavior of RAN is obtained that will be able to fulfill slice SLSs for most situations. However, even through rigorous planning, there will be times and places where the RAN resources are not enough to fulfill SLS given the default configuration. To understand how often (and where) this happens, the performance of a RAN slice will continuously be monitored by SMO. When SMO detects a situation when RAN SLS cannot be fulfilled, Non- RT RIC can use A1 policies to improve the situation. To understand how to utilize A1 policies and how to resolve the situation, the Non-RT RIC will use additional information available in SMO.

### 4.8.2 Motivation
To motivate the use case an example with an emergency service as a slice tenant is used. For this example, it is understood (at slice instantiation) that 50% of the PRBs in an area can be enough to support the emergency traffic under normal circumstances. Therefore, the ratio of PRBs for the emergency users is configured to 50% as default behavior for the pre- defined group of users belonging to the emergency slice. Also, QoS is also configured in CN and RAN so that video cameras of emergency users get a minimum bitrate of 500 kbps. Now, suppose a large fire is ongoing and emergency users are on duty. Some of the personnel capture the fire on video on site. The video streams are available to the emergency control command. Because of the high traffic demand in the area from several emergency users (belonging to the same slice), the resources available for the emergency slice is not enough to support all the traffic. In this situation, the operator has several possibilities to mitigate the situation. Depending on SLAs towards the emergency slice compared to SLAs for other slices, the operator could reconfigure the amount of PRB reserved to emergency slice at the expense of other slices. However, there is always a risk that emergency video quality is not good enough irrespective if all resources are used for emergency users. It might be that no video shows sufficient resolution due to resource limitations around the emergency site. In this situation, the emergency control command decides, based on the video content, to focus on a selected video stream to improve the resolution. The emergency control system gives the information about which users to up- and down- prioritized to the e2e slice assurance function (through e.g., an Edge API) of the mobile network to increase bandwidth for selected video stream(s). Given this additional information, the Non-RT RIC can influence how RAN resources are allocated to different users through a QoS target statement in an A1 policy. By good usage of the A1 policy, the emergency control command can ensure that dynamically defined group of UEs provides the video resolution that is needed. The use case can be summarized as per below:
- A fire draws a lot of emergency personnel to an area.
- Because of this RAN resources becomes congested which affects the video quality for all video feeds in the area.
- The emergency control command have 5 active video feeds and selects one video feed which is of specific
interest.
- The emergency control command requests higher resolution of a selected feed, while demoting the other.
- With this information, the Non-RT RIC will evaluate how to ensure higher bandwidth for the feed selected by
emergency control command (and lower for other feeds).
- The Non-RT RIC updates the policy for the associated UEs in the associated Near-RT RIC over the A1 interface.
- Near-RT RIC enforce the modified QoS target for the associated UEs over the E2 interface to fulfill the request.
- The emergency control command experiences a higher resolution of the selected video feed.

### 4.8.3 Proposed solution
The main functions of the O-RAN components are utilized to support an improved QoS based resource optimization. QoS based resource optimization use case deploys O-CU, O-DU, the Non-RT RIC and the Near-RT RIC function modules. To achieve intelligent resource optimization, Non-RT RIC should provide policies to Near-RT RIC which are used to drive QoS based resource optimization at the RAN level. Non-RT RIC should monitor QoS related metrics from network and SMO functions. O-CU and O-DU components should provide UE performance metrics with the configured granularity to SMO via O1. In addition to performance metrics retrieved from network elements, external information sources might also be utilized to solve the problem of allocation limited RAN resources. For example, external server could provide Non-RAN data about priorities of the UEs to SMO. Finally, the E2 nodes should execute QoS enforcement decisions received from Near-RT RIC which are expected to influence RRM behaviour.

### 4.8.4 Benefits of O-RAN architecture
The main features of O-RAN architecture are pointed by the proposed solution which aims to offer more advanced QoS based resource optimization.

## 4.9 RAN slice SLA assurance

### 4.9.1 Background information
The 3GPP standards architected a sliceable 5G infrastructure which allows creation and management of customized networks to meet specific service requirements that can be demanded by future applications, services and business verticals. Such a flexible architecture needs different requirements to be specified in terms of functionality, performance and group of users which can greatly vary from one service to the other. The 5G standardization efforts have gone into defining specific slices and their Service Level Agreements (SLAs) based on application/service type [i.11]. Since network slicing is conceived to be an end-to-end feature that includes the core network, the transport network and the radio access network (RAN), these requirements should be met at any slice subnet during the life-time of a network slice efficiency, latency and reliability at a high level in SDOs such as 3GPP [i.9] and GSMA [i.7]. These requirements are defined as a reference for SLA/contractual agreements for each slice, which individually need proper handling in NG- RAN. Although network slicing support is started to be defined with 3GPP Release 15, slice assurance mechanisms in RAN needs to be further addressed to achieve deployable network slicing in an open RAN environment. It is necessary to assure the SLAs by dynamically controlling slice configurations based on slice specific performance information. Existing RAN performance measurements [i.17] and information model definitions [i.16] are not enough to support RAN slice SLA assurance use cases. This use case is intended to clarify necessary mechanisms and parameters for RAN slice SLA assurance.

### 4.9.2 Motivation
In the 5G era, network slicing is a prominent feature which provides end-to-end connectivity and data processing tailored to specific business requirements. These requirements include customizable network capabilities such as the support of very high data rates, traffic densities, service availability and very low latency. According to 5G standardization efforts, the 5G system can support the needs of the business through the specification of several service needs such as data rate, traffic capacity, user density, latency, reliability, and availability. These capabilities are always provided based on a Service Level Agreement (SLA) between the mobile operator and the business customer, which brought up interest for mechanisms to ensure slice SLAs and prevent its possible violations. O-RAN’s open interfaces and AI/ML based architecture will enable such challenging mechanisms to be implemented and help pave the way for operators to realize the opportunities of network slicing in an efficient manner.

### 4.9.3 Proposed solution
As shown in figure 4.9.3-1, RAN slice SLA assurance scenario involves Non-RT RIC, Near-RT RIC, E2 nodes and SMO interaction. The scenario starts with the retrieval of RAN specific slice SLA/requirements (possibly within SMO or from NSSMF depending on operator deployment options). Based on slice specific performance measurements from E2 nodes, Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC can fine-tune RAN behavior aligned with O-RAN architectural roles to assure RAN slice SLAs dynamically. Non-RT RIC monitors long-term trends and patterns for RAN slice subnets’ performance and employs AI/ML methods to perform corrective actions through SMO (e.g., reconfiguration via O1) or via creation of A1 policies. Non-RT RIC can also construct/train relevant AI/ML models that will be deployed at Near-RT RIC. A1 policies possibly include scope identifiers (e.g., S-NSSAI) and statements such as KPI targets. On the other hand, Near-RT RIC enables optimized RAN actions through execution of deployed AI/ML models in near-real-time by considering both O1 configuration (e.g., static RRM policies) and received A1 policies, as well as received slice specific E2 measurements.

### 4.9.4 Benefits of O-RAN architecture
Current standardization efforts focus on defining business and system requirements, slice management functionalities and procedures, and possible RRM policies on shared resources without specifying how such a flexible envisioned system can be addressed within 5G RAN. Considering the dynamic nature of RAN, providing desired levels of service quality for each RAN slice is a challenging topic that requires further investigation and standardization efforts for a multi-vendor open RAN environment. O-RAN’s open interfaces combined with its AI/ML based innovative architecture can enable such RAN SLA assurance mechanisms, which could potentially change the way network operators do their business and also enable new business models. For example, O-RAN architecture and interfaces can enable operators to manage spectrum resource allocation across slices more efficiently and dynamically in response to usage patterns, thereby allowing more efficient use of spectrum resources.

## 4.10 Multi-vendor slices

### 4.10.1 Background information
This use case enables multiple slices with functions provided by multi-vendors, such as slice #1, composed of DU(s) and CU(s), provided by vendor A and slice #2, composed of DU(s) and CU(s), provided by vendor B.

### 4.10.2 Motivation
When providing multiple slices, it is assumed that suitable vO-DU/scheduler and vO-CU treat each slice respectively. A vendor who provides vO-DU and vO-CU function can have a strength of a customized scheduler for a certain service. With accomplishment of multi-vendor circumstances, following benefits can be expected: 1) More flexible and time to market deployment Operators can maximize options to choose suitable vO-DU/scheduler and vO-CU to offer various slices. For example, some vendors can have a strength of a scheduler for eMBB service and the other can have a strength of scheduler for URLLC service. Or, vendor A can provide vO-DU/scheduler and vO-CU suitable for URLLC earlier than vendor B, therefore operators can choose vO-DU and vO-CU functions from vendor A to meet their service requirements. Also, when an operator wants to add a new service/slice, new functions from a new vendor can be introduced with less consideration for existing vendors if multi-vendor circumstance was realized. This can help expand vendor’s business opportunities rapidly. 2) Flexible deployment when sharing RAN equipment among operators When operators want to share RAN equipment and resources, RAN vendors and their placement of each RAN functions can be different. If multi-vendor circumstance was introduced, then it can relax restrictions among operators to share RAN equipment and resources. This can help expanded opportunities for reaching agreements of RAN sharing among operators. With expansion of RAN sharing, operators CAPEX and OPEX can be optimized, helping with additional investment opportunities. 3) Reducing supply chain risk If an existing vendor providing a certain pair of vO-DU and vO-CU functions withdraws of the market due to business reasons, operators can deploy new vO-DU and vO-CU functions alternatively from other vendors under this multi-vendor circumstance. This can reduce a risk for operators’ business continuity.

### 4.10.3 Proposed solution

#### 4.10.3.1 Multi-vendor slices
An architecture for multi-vendor slices use case is given in figure 4.10.3.1-1. There are multiple slices with which have vO-DU and vO-CU functions associating respectively. As shown in figure 4.10.3.1-1, slice-1 is composed of vO-DU(s) and vO-CU(s) provided by vendor B, and slice-2 is composed of vO-DU(s) and vO-CU-UP(s) provided by vendor C. Each vO-DU/scheduler and vO-CU functions treat one slice as an example. O-RU provided by vendor A is shared between two vO-DU(s) supplied by two different vendors, vendor B and C. The case of vO-DU and vO-CU from different vendors in a slice is not defined in the present document.

#### 4.10.3.2 RAN sharing
An additional application of multi-vendor slices use case is RAN sharing where, operator A has a pair of vO-DU and vO- CU from vendor A, and operator B has a different pair of vO-DU and vO-CU from vendor B, and O-RU is shared among these two operators (see figure 4.10.3.2-1). As mentioned in clause 4.10.2, through RAN sharing, CAPEX and OPEX are expected to be reduced. Savings achieved by RAN sharing can then be invested again for additional expansions of RAN sharing area. This use case considers single slice in each operator and multiple slices in each operator is not defined in the present document. To realise multi-vendor slices, some coordination between vO-DU/vO-CUs will be required since radio resource should be assigned properly and without any conflicts. Depending on different service goals and the potential impact on O-RAN architecture, a required coordination scheme needs to be determined. The possible cases are: 1) Loose coordination through O1/A1 interface (case 1 shown in figure 4.10.3.2-2) 2) Moderate coordination through E2/X2/F1 interface (case 2 shown in figure 4.10.3.2-2) 3) Tight coordination through a new interface between vO-DUs (case 3 shown in figure 4.10.3.2-2) In case 1, a resource allocation between slices or vO-DU/vO-CUs is provisioned through O1/A1 interface and each pair of vO-DU and vO-CU will allocate radio resources to each customer within radio resources allocated by Near-RT RIC and/or Non-RT RIC. In case 2, a resource allocation can be negotiated between slices or vO-DU/vO-CUs through E2, X2 and F1 after provisioned through O1/A1 interface. If a more adaptive radio resource allocation is needed (case 3), a more frequent negotiation would be required. This can potentially be achieved via an interface or API extension between vO-DU(s).

### 4.10.4 Benefits of O-RAN architecture
The proposed multi-vendor slices approach will not only enable operators to utilize different vendor’s strengths for particular service/slice type but also provide opportunities for additional RAN sharing use cases. The coordination needed between different vendors CU(s)/DU(s) can be realized through O-RAN architecture where Near-RT RIC and Non-RT RIC can coordinate CU(s)/DU(s) to efficiently allocate and use resources across these multi-vendor slices.

## 4.11 Dynamic spectrum sharing (DSS)

### 4.11.1 Background information
As we transition from 4G to 5G, the spectral resources used for 5G deployment is a key consideration and this situation varies from one operator to another. Though, new C-band resources between 3-6 GHz and mmWave bands have been acquired by operators, these bands suffer from great propagation and penetration loss, limiting their coverage to users in proximity of the cell site, this is compelling particularly on the UL where the UE device is power constrained. This mandates the requirement of 5G deployment on lower bands (i.e., below 2GHz), which are widely used in existing 4G LTE deployments. Operating on lower bands along with non-standalone mode of 5G deployment helps to cover large geography, enables seamless mobility between 4G and 5G while being sensitive to overall cost of deployment. In addition, DSS offers the advantage of dynamically sharing the available spectrum adapting to the changing work loads of 4G and 5G network.

### 4.11.2 Motivation
DSS is compelling considering the need for operators to dynamically share already deployed spectral resources between LTE and NR devices without degrading the QoE of the current 4G subscribers while offering the same level of coverage to support NR devices, with the consideration that they will be rolled out in an incremental manner. The objective of this use case is to propose DSS in the context of the O-RAN architecture, specifically to realize it as an application in the RIC framework. This would particularly benefit vRAN implementations when the 4G/5G CU/DU are from different vendors and one could leverage RAN data over ORAN’s framework for traffic prediction, resource management and control functions. Towards this, we identify the intelligent control functions which can be realized as a DSS application to augment the L2/L1 control functions defined as part of LTE-NR coexistence in Rel-15/16.

### 4.11.3 Proposed solution
The architectural context for the proposed solution is shown in figure 4.11.3-1, where DSS enables 4G and 5G UEs to operate over the same spectrum identified as X (typically low band), while 5G itself could operate on new bands Y (typically high band) not used by current 4G deployment. In a typical setting, Y would offer higher capacity, low latency and smaller coverage, while X would be used to offer reasonable capacity along with larger coverage. 3GPP specifications offers DSS support over X2/Xn interface to enable dynamic sharing of spectrum resource, in addition to L2/L1 adaptation for 5G-NR to co-exist with LTE subscriber. When DSS is enabled in the SA mode, 5G UE would be capable of operating on lower LTE bands (below 2GHz), C and mmWave bands and requires connectivity only to the gNBs. The sharing of the LTE bands between LTE and 5G data channels are achieved by both 4G scheduler and 5G scheduler, assisted by the coordination function, complimented by the RIC, between them. For 5G NSA mode, the 5G UE is required to have dual connectivity capability and be able to connect to eNBs on LTE bands for control plane requirements and user plane connectivity towards the LTE and/or 5G depending on deployment requirements. In the scenario where gNB only operates on 5G C or mmWave bands, the sharing of the LTE frequency band between 4G and 5G UEs can be solely fulfilled by eNB MAC scheduler, as the two devices are indistinguishable from L2/L1 perspective. While, if the gNB is required to operate on lower LTE bands as well, then spectral sharing needs to be coordinated between the LTE and 5G schedulers. The use case proposes to conduct DSS related policy, configuration, resource management and control functions using the Non-RT and Near-RT functions over open interfaces proposed by ORAN. An abstracted view of how DSS application can be realized using the Non-RT and Near-RT RIC components is shown in figure 4.11.3-2. The DSS over RIC can be realized as multiple applications considering its multiple optimization and operational objectives. One possible logical breakdown is as a resource management application (DSS-app) managing the shared spectrum resource adapting to dynamic 4G and 5G specific workload requirements in various local contexts, and another application (RAT-app) to configure, control and monitor DSS rules in the CU/DU corresponding to the LTE and 5G cells. The DSS-app engineers to translate the global DSS objectives such as workload requirements for a region and time-of-day to spectrum sharing policies such as max/min bandwidth threshold at a local level (e.g., central office). The RAT-app then translates the DSS-app’s resource policies to RAT specific configuration and control actions communicating with the respective CU/DU instances. The main goal of the Non-RT DSS-App is to provide long-term policy or intent as a scheduling guidance to 4G and 5G scheduler considering business, user, spatial and temporal workload factors and the main functionality of Non-RT RAT- App is to translate the global DSS policies from Non-RT DSS-App to RAT specific policies to the RAT-App in the Near- RT RIC over A1. The main functionalities of the Near-RT DSS-App include policy translation between Non-RT DSS-App to RAT specific configuration to the Near-RT RAT-App. Furthermore, it is actively involved in closed-loop decision using the KPIs from the RAN adapting to the needs of the 4G and 5G cells. The main functionality of Near-RT RAT-App is to perform RAT specific configuration, control and data subscription over E2 interface with RAN (CU/DU components).

### 4.11.4 Benefits of O-RAN architecture
Using RIC based implementation of DSS benefits from using the non-real-time and near-real-time data from the RAN to influence the 4G/5G MAC scheduler’s near and long-term resource management policies and scheduler configuration. This is in addition to the value driven from control over open interfaces and using third party DSS applications. This is in contrast to synchronizing the 4G and 5G schedulers using closed resource management functions. Some scenarios where we foresee the advantage of a RIC based DSS include: 1) DSS over RIC allows policy driven resource management between the 4G and 5G schedulers, aided by predictive intelligence. Furthermore, DSS requires synchronizing the MAC schedulers to avoid scheduling interference. However, the granularity of synchronization depends on the nature of workload. While workloads that are bursty in nature can require close to per-TTI synchronization, predictable workload could be handled without trading-off significant efficiency with coarser TTI synchronization. The latter would be workloads DSS over RIC would be suitable for, which would also be in line with Near-RT RIC’s operational requirement of 10ms-1s control loop latency. 2) DSS over RIC can also improve resource management efficiency over multiple 4G/5G spectrum sharing cells. In this scenario, the RIC could use the global data spanning distributed cell sites, aided with predictive models to share the spectral resources dynamically. For example, data on predictive LTE or 5G user mobility can be used to predict the bandwidth requirement in adjacent 4G and 5G cells. This bandwidth decision can be then coordinated in advance across multiple distributed 4G/5G cells. 3) DSS over RIC can also be useful when the 4G/5G cells can only overlap over the cell edge, in which case UE related information such as RSRP/RSRQ, PDCP throughput can be used by the Near-RT RIC to identify the set of overlapping cells along with the projected workload. This information is then used to slice the shared resource among the cell edge users to avoid interference by the respective schedulers while optimizing resources for the cell center users.

## 4.12 NSSI resource allocation optimization

### 4.12.1 Background information
5G networks are becoming increasingly complex with the densification of millimeter wave small cells, and various new services, such as eMBB (enhanced Mobile Broadband), URLLC (Ultra Reliable Low Latency Communications), and mMTC (massive Machine Type Communications) that are characterized by high speed high data volume, low speed ultra- low latency, and infrequent transmitting low data volume from huge number of emerging smart devices, respectively. It is a challenging task for 5G networks to allocate resources dynamically and efficiently among multiple network nodes to support various services.

### 4.12.2 Motivation
eMBB, URLLC, and mMTC services in 5G are typically realized as NSI(s) (Network Slice Instance(s)) and the resources allocated to NSSI (Network Slice Subnet Instance) to support the O-RAN nodes can be optimized according to the service requirements. As the new 5G services have different characteristics, the network traffic tends to be sporadic, where there can be different usage pattern in terms of time, location, UE distribution, and types of applications. For example, most IoT sensor applications can run during off-peak hours or weekends. Special events, such as sport games, concerts, can cause traffic demand to shoot up at certain times and locations. Therefore, NSSI resource allocation optimization function trains the AI/ML model, based on the huge volume of performance data collected over days, weeks, months from O-RAN nodes. It then uses the AI/ML model to predict the traffic demand patterns of 5G networks in different times and locations for each network slice subnet, and automatically re-allocates the network resources ahead of the network issues surfaced. The resource quota policies associated with RAN NFs (E2 nodes) included in the respective NSSIs enable 5G network providers to optimize or prioritize the utilization of the RAN resources across slices and supports the flexibility to share resources optimally across critical service slices during resource surplus or scarcity. For example, an NSSI allocated for premium service can receive a major share of the resources compared to a slice allocated for a standard/best-effort service. Another such example is the scenario of additional resource allocation for emergency services. An important consideration here is that the NSSI resource quota policies focus on maximization of resource utilization across the NSSIs .The resource quota policies can be used as a constraint for resource allocation that defines the range of resources that can be allocated per slice. One use case for applying such a constraint is the analysis and decision based on history of resource allocation failure that can be reflected in the RAN node measurements. Here resource quota policy can be provisioned to control the minimum, maximum and dedicated resources that need to be allocated based on the historical pattern.

### 4.12.3 Proposed solution
The NSSI resource allocation optimization on the Non-RT RIC is shown in figure 4.12.3-1, and can consist of the following steps: 1) Monitoring: monitor the radio network(s) by collecting data via the O1 interface, including performance measurements (that are measured per S-NSSAI (TS 28.552 [i.17])) such as mean DL PRB used for data traffic, mean UL PRB used for data traffic, average DL UE throughput in gNB, average UL UE throughput in gNB, number of PDU sessions requested to setup, number of PDU sessions successfully setup, distribution of UL UE throughput in gNB, etc. 2) Analysis & decision: 2a. Utilize AI/ML models to analyze the measurements and predict the future traffic demand, including the RRMPolicyRatio IOC limits, for each NSSI for a given time and location. 2b. Determine the actions needed to add or reduce the resources (e.g., capacity, VNF resources, slice subnet attributes (TS 28.541 [i.16]), etc.) for the RAN NFs (E2 nodes) included in the respective NSSI at the given time, and location. 3) Execution: execute the following actions to reallocate the NSSI resources: 3a. Re-configure the NSSI attributes, including RRMPolicyRatio IOCs (TS 28.541 [i.16]) via the OAM functions in SMO which uses O1 interface to configure the E2 nodes. 3b. Update the cloud resources via the O2 interface.

# O -CM
S e rv lo u d & O

# N SSI R e so u rce
A llo catio n O p tim izatio n . an alysis & d e cisio n 1 . m

# A 1 3 .a. e xe cu tio

# E 2 E 2
N e tw o rk fu n ctio n s

# C P U P E 1

# F 1 -U F 1 -C

# O -D U
n F ro n th a u l in te rfa c e

# O -R U

# O -C lo u d
o n n ito rin g

### 4.12.4 Benefits of O-RAN architecture
This use case is based on the retrieval and analysis of long term performance data captured from RAN nodes and the generation of AI/ML models for re-allocation of network resources based on the prediction of traffic demand patterns of 5G networks, which is made possible by O-RAN’s AI/ML based architecture.

## 4.13 Local indoor positioning in RAN

### 4.13.1 Background information
Cellular network-based positioning is an important technology for 5G vertical industries, individuals and operators, especially in local indoor scenarios. For instance, mall can provide value-added services, such as local indoor navigation and shop recommendation by leverage real-time indoor positioning. Industrial manufacturing field should send real-time safe warning to remind operators keep away from the dangerous area which would also need real-time indoor positioning. NR positioning is introduced by 3GPP Rel.16. The Location Management Function (LMF) resides in core network acts as a location server. LTE Positioning Protocol (LPP) is reused for the UE measurements and NR Positioning Protocol “a” (NRPPa) based on LPPa is used for the gNB measurements [i.18]. The NR Positioning Protocol A (NRPPa) PDUs carry E-CID, OTDOA are routed between eNB/gNB and the LMF via AMF. The AMF routes the NRPPa PDUs transparently based on a routing ID corresponding to the involved LMF over NG-C interface without knowledge of the involved NRPPa transaction. This long route messages between eNB/gNB and centralized LMF can suffer network jitters and leads to un- real-time UE location results. For some local indoor scenario, e.g., mall and industrial manufacturing, it would be better to directly deploy the positioning function in the RAN side and expose UE location to local applications.

### 4.13.2 Motivation
For local indoor scenarios, the positioning function inside RAN is envisioned to be a promising solution. It not only reduces the latency of positioning but also can reuse the edge cloud infrastructure in RAN. In the context of O-RAN architecture, the positioning function can be deployed as a positioning xApp in the Near-RT RIC. The positioning xApp computes the UE location and optional velocity based on the positioning measurement obtained via the E2 interface. One example is that distributed indoor small base station in the operator’s domain can provide UE positioning service by adding Near-RT RIC with positioning xApp. The positioning related information report from small base station to the positioning xApp inside Near-RT RIC can be measured based on the uplink SRS information. By leveraging multi-point positioning, field strength positioning and other positioning algorithms, positioning xApp inside Near-RT RIC can conduct a real-time position of UE.

### 4.13.3 Proposed solution
Cellular network based positioning procedure mainly includes two main steps: 1) positioning measurements reports; and 2) position computation and optional velocity estimation based on the measurements. The local indoor positioning in RAN use case mainly involves the Near-RT RIC, E2 nodes and potentially Non-RT RIC in the O-RAN architecture. To enable the local indoor positioning in RAN, Near-RT RIC should be able to discover the location measurement capability of the E2 nodes and subscribe the positioning measurements based on the chosen positioning algorithm and positioning QoS requirements. Non-RT RIC can also be leveraged to provide the AI/ML model if machine learning based algorithm is selected for the positioning. In this case, Non-RT RIC trains the AI/ML position model based on the historical positioning measurements (e.g., RSSI) and the labeled user location (e.g., by manual or by Minimal Drive Test (MDT). Then, the trained positioning AI/ML model can be deployed to Near-RT RIC for real-time positioning inference. The E2 nodes are expected to provide positioning measurements to Near-RT RIC as required. The measurements report can be periodical, or event driven based on Near-RT RIC subscription. Near-RT RIC can also adjust the corresponding positioning measurement configurations in E2 nodes to assure the measure requirement. What kind of positioning measurements need to be reported from E2 node depend on the subscription request from positioning xApp in Near-RT RIC. For instance, the positioning measurements can include E-CID，OTDOA, UTDOA, TOA, RSSI, RSRQ and RRU antenna ID if it is the indoor system. The report granularity is expected in the order of 10-100 ms. The positioning xApp in Near-RT RIC can pass the positioning results to the SMO for further exposure. Furthermore, Near-RT RIC can also expose the positioning results to edge application nearby in a secure manner (via API gateway with firewall).

### 4.13.4 Benefits of O-RAN architecture
By enabling the local indoor positioning xApp in Near-RT RIC, it helps to reduce the latency of positioning in local indoor scenarios. Moreover, Near-RT RIC covers multiple E2 nodes, it can track UE location in case of mobility within certain areas.

## 4.14 Massive SU/MU-MIMO grouping optimization

### 4.14.1 Background information
The massive MIMO is one of the key technologies for 4G and 5G. Due to the multi-antenna transmission and reception, this technology can inherently provide diversity and improve capacity by targeting high gain antenna beams towards one or multiple subscribers, thus improving the receive power levels and spatially filtering the interference from neighboring subscribers and transmission points. The case that only one subscriber is served by a given physical resource block of a massive MIMO cell in a transmission interval is called Single-User MIMO (SU-MIMO). While the case that multiple subscribers are served by a given physical resource block of a massive MIMO cell in a transmission interval is called Multi-User MIMO (MU-MIMO). In the commercial deployment, the massive MIMO eNB/gNB support both SU-MIMO and MU-MIMO transmission. The SU-MIMO and MU-MIMO are targeting for different scenarios and can achieve different spectral efficiency. Some subscribers can be stationary, some subscribers can be pedestrian, and some subscribers can be moving at a high speed. The performance of MU-MIMO is very susceptible to subscriber’s moving speed, while the performance of SU-MIMO is relatively robust to subscriber’s moving speed. Additionally, some subscribers can have VoLTE or VoNR traffic, some subscribers can have download/FTP traffic, and some subscribers can have YouTube-like traffic. The performance of MU- MIMO considerably reduces in the low traffic volume scenario, while the performance of SU-MIMO is relatively robust to low traffic scenarios. The spectral efficiency of SU-MIMO and MU-MIMO differ from each other. The spectral efficiency of MU-MIMO can be several times of spectral efficiency of SU-MIMO. Furthermore, SU-MIMO and MU-MIMO have different requirement for C-DRX, SRS, and other RRC configurations. These RRC configurations can be optimized based on scenario information.

### 4.14.2 Motivation
The massive SU/MU-MIMO grouping optimization use case aims at proactively and continuously improving cell and/or user-centric transmission efficiency and reliability in a massive MIMO deployment area by adapting appropriate transmission methods (e.g., SU-MIMO, MU-MIMO) for each user. The massiveness of available measurement input data, the complexity, pro-activeness as well as near-real time requirement suggest the application of machine learning techniques of input data analytics as well as use case decision generation. The objective of this use case is to allow the operator and vendor to optimize SU/MU-MIMO transmission by means of policies, configuration, or machine learning techniques, according to objectives defined by the operator.

### 4.14.3 Proposed solution

#### 4.14.3.1 Solution 1
Non-RT RIC inference solution is shown in figure 4.14.3.1-1. In this solution, Non-RT RIC is for SU/MU-MIMO grouping decision. The SMO should collect the necessary configurations, performance indicators, measurement reports data from RAN nodes triggered by Non-RT RIC if required, and Non-RT RIC should retrieve user enrichment information (e.g., GPS information, traffic information) from the application server. When the optimization objective fails, it triggers the AI/ML model re-training, data analytics and optimization in Non-RT RIC. The Non-RT RIC should enable to retrieve necessary configurations, performance indicators, measurement reports and other information (e.g., user GPS information, traffic information) for the purpose of constructing/training relevant AI/ML models. The Non-RT RIC should use the trained AI/ML model to decide the UE list for SU-MIMO group and MU- MIMO group by inferring the mobility, traffic model of each user. Additionally, Non-RT RIC should also decide RRC configuration for SU-MIMO group and MU-MIMO group, such as SRS and C-DRX configuration, etc. The Near-RT RIC should be able to retrieve SU/MU-MIMO grouping, and related RRC configurations from Non-RT RIC (if it configures over A1). Moreover, it can send the configurations to E2 nodes by policy. The RAN nodes should send proper RRC configuration accordingly for UE in both SU-MIMO and MU-MIMO groups, do SU-MIMO scheduling for UE in SU-MIMO group, and do SU-MIMO or MU-MIMO scheduling for UE in MU- MIMO group dynamically. The RAN nodes should collect and report the performance measurement to SMO related to SU-MIMO and MU-MIMO spectral efficiency. For example, average layer, rank, and throughput for SU-MIMO and MU- MIMO.

#### 4.14.3.2 Solution 2
Near-RT RIC inference solution is shown in figure 4.14.3.2-1. This solution is Near-RT RIC centered SU/MU-MIMO grouping decision. Another alternative is that the Near-RT RIC just provides the mobility and the traffic model prediction result over E2 interface. The E2 node makes final decision on SU/MU-MIMO grouping. The SMO should collect the necessary configurations, performance indicators, measurement reports data from RAN nodes triggered by Non-RT RIC if required, and Non-RT RIC should retrieve user enrichment information (e.g., GPS information, traffic information) from the application server when the optimization objective fails, and it triggers the AI/ML model re-training, data analytics and optimization in Non-RT RIC. The Non-RT RIC should enable the operators to retrieve necessary configurations, performance indicators, measurement reports and other information (e.g., user GPS information, traffic information) for the purpose of constructing/training relevant AI/ML models. The Non-RT RIC should sends enrichment information to Near-RT RIC by A1-EI I/F. The Near- RT RIC supports deployment and execution of AI/ML model from Non-RT RIC. The Near-RT RIC does ML inference to decide the UE list for SU-MIMO group and MU-MIMO group by inferring the mobility, the traffic model of each user. Additionally, Near-RT RIC should decide RRC configuration for SU-MIMO group and MU-MIMO group, such as SRS and C-DRX configuration, etc. The Near-RT RIC should be able to send the configurations to E2 nodes by policy. E2 nodes should send proper RRC configuration accordingly for UE in both SU-MIMO and MU-MIMO groups, do SU- MIMO scheduling for UE in SU-MIMO group, and do SU-MIMO or MU-MIMO scheduling for UE in MU-MIMO group dynamically. E2 nodes should collect and report performance measurement to SMO related to SU-MIMO and MU-MIMO spectral efficiency. For example, average layer, rank, and throughput for SU-MIMO and MU-MIMO. An E2 node can also decide on the SU/MU-MIMO grouping; the E2 nodes should retrieve the mobility and the traffic model prediction result over the E2. E2 nodes should support the advanced MAC scheduling algorithms that decide to do SU-MIMO or MU-MIMO transmission for each user considering the user mobility and traffic model prediction.

### 4.14.4 Benefits of O-RAN architecture
The advantages the O-RAN architecture provides to massive MIMO SU/MU-MIMO grouping optimization use case include the ability to apply and combine both, non- and near real-time analytics, machine-learning, and decision making for various sub-tasks of this use case for a cell-centric and /or user (group) centric point of view. The Non-RT RIC supports long-term AI/ML training based on enrichment information. O-RAN interfaces such as O1, A1, and E2 has support for necessary data, policy, and configuration exchanges between the architectural elements. These advantages motivate massive MIMO SU/MU-MIMO grouping optimization to run on O-RAN based RAN implementations.

## 4.15 O-RAN signalling storm protection

### 4.15.1 Background information
Society is increasingly dependent on network connectivity at any time and in any place and increasing diversity of device types ranging from complex devices such as smart phone to very simple and low-cost IoT devices are connecting to the network. The sheer number of connected devices, as well as the wide range of device types, makes the mobility network subject to accidental or intentional attacks that can disrupt the regular usage of the network. Given that life-critical applications are moving to wireless networks, such network disruptions are not only an inconvenience but can have impact on life and health of individuals. The O-RAN architecture offers an opportunity to address such security challenges in customizable and creative ways by utilizing the Near-Real-Time RIC xApps and Non-Real-Time RIC rApps.

### 4.15.2 Motivation
The main defense mechanism against attacks coming from the devices toward the network is based on configuration of the devices themselves and trust that the devices will indeed comply to restrictions defined by mobility standards. One such defense mechanism is the back-off timer that restricts the number of repeated device registrations, thus preventing devices from overloading the network with attaches. If this trust is breached there are no other options for defending the network rather than rejecting (denying service) randomly to both benign and malicious devices, a state which is equivalent to DDoS. Unfortunately, even today the network has few hundreds of device types that accidently breach this trust and allow devices to aggressively attach to the network in a rate of few thousand times per hour (the maximum allowed number by standard is less than 20 attaches per hour). An attacker that finds a way to manipulate a large set of these vulnerable devices remotely can cause an attach storm that would lead to a long outage of large parts of the network. Furthermore, this attacker can continue this attack over many hours, each time picking few thousand of devices from a large pool of millions of devices available; the network carrier will not be able to stop this attack without intelligent and fine-grained controls to act against a certain patterns of behaviour. The good news is that detecting these aggressive devices is possible as their behaviour is very different from the other devices in the network. What the network really needs is to apply dynamic restriction over these devices to prevent them from overloading the control plane of the network. This restriction should be smart enough to still allow benign devices to register to the network without interruption. Having smart security control at the RAN can stop such attack and without overloading deeper parts of the network in the core.

### 4.15.3 Proposed solution
In order to protect the network from such UE originated signaling storms, an xApp can be built with two main functionalities: a DDoS detection capability and a DDoS mitigation capability. The DDoS detection capability has two parts: the near-real-time detection, which takes place in a RIC xApp and a non-real time detection, which takes place at the SMO and relies on enrichment data originated in external system (e.g., 5G core or OAM system) (see figure 4.15.3- 1). The reason for this functionality split is that some detection logic relies on information that is available only at the core (such as IMSI, IMEI, device types, PLMN, etc.), while for other detection logic, the information available at the RAN will suffice. It is assumed that the Near-Real-Time RIC DDoS detection xApp provides a faster response with coarse grained aggressive device detection while the 5G core detection results computed by the SMO rApp provide slower response with finer grained aggressive device detection. It is noted that for some attack scenarios the xApp can perform the detection without the help of external information coming from the Non-Real-Time RIC. The DDoS mitigation xApp can implement an E2 INSERT-CONTROL control loop where the xApp can decide for each attach request if it should be accepted or rejected, or it can update an appropriate E2 POLICY when a UE is determined to be suspect. An exemplary E2 POLICY in this use case can allow suspected UEs to be blocked completely or throttled at a given rate at the E2 node. The detection algorithms should detect abnormal activity of high volume of control plane messages originating from a set of devices. The detection algorithm can change based on the network environment (metro, rural, enterprise, etc.) as well as dynamic usage trends and available devices. The output of the detection algorithm can also be of different levels of quality, depending on the attack type, in some cases the detection algorithm will produce list of specific devices while in other cases, it would only point to problematic geographic locations, specific gNBs or cell towers where the attack seems to be originated. Generally speaking, a detection algorithm should track registration behavior of individual devices and alert in the case that a threshold is exceeded for a given time threshold (e.g., one minute). The thresholds per tracking unit (i.e., cell site, gNB, AMF group, etc.) should be calculated dynamically based on normal behavior of the tracking unit. The learning of the normal behavior can be achieved using ML algorithm over time. An important concern regarding the detection report quality is the identifiers lifetime. Identifiers of network elements such as a gNB or cell tower are considered persistent over long periods of time. When considering device or subscriber related identifiers their life span depends on where they are collected. Specifically, equipment identifier (such as IMEI) or subscriber identifier (such as IMSI) are only visible at the network core and are not available at the RAN. Some RAN identifiers change upon every network attach and are allocated randomly (for example C-RNTI), while others persist longer such as the 5G TMSI. The available identifiers in the detection report depends on the nature of the attack: location, number of devices used, exploited vulnerability type and more. For example, if an aggressive device uses an RRC connection re-establishment procedure, the C-RNTI remains the same over the numerous connection attempts, while in the case of RRC connection establishment procedure there is a fresh randomly selected C-RNTI for each attempt. There are detection techniques to identify an aggressive UE that don’t rely solely on its identifiers, rather on signal parameters such as signal quality or timing advance, which can in turn, help build a unique fingerprint of the aggressive device. An important disclaimer is that not all attack scenarios can be prevented. Specifically, in the case where the modem or chipset itself are compromised and communication parameters can be faked by the attacker, the detection methods mentioned above could be avoided. The mitigation functionality should support a set of actions, depending on the policy applied. These actions can be applied to a single UE, or a set of UEs that apply to a certain criterion. The criteria can be a location, a cell tower or a gNB. A UE set can be defined in a custom manner to include a list of UEs, where the criteria is based on considerations external to RIC, such as UE reputation, vendor, or vulnerability type. The actions applied to a single UE or set of UE should include (but not be limited to) rejecting attach requests, throttling attach requests (attach rate should not exceed a certain threshold), handover a set of devices to a different radio or applying a different slice to set.

### 4.15.4 Benefits of O-RAN architecture
The O-RAN architecture allows applying protection to the network at the edge, thus minimizing the effect of these signaling storm DDoS attacks on network resources. The combination of near-real-time logic at the Near-Real-Time RIC for fast detection, with slower scale analysis and input from the Non-Real-Time RIC and SMO provides a good mixture between quick reaction and advanced detection schemes. Lighter detection processes can be applied as xApps while more advanced heavy processing ML analytics can run externally and send input to RIC over the A1 interface.

## 4.16 Congestion prediction and management

### 4.16.1 Background information
This use case provides a proactive approach to congestion handling in the base station by analyzing the radio resource utilization and taking timely corrective action so as to mitigate any potential congestion in the system.

### 4.16.2 Motivation
Large-scale commercial cellular networks have many problems - like cell congestions leading to RLF (Radio Link Failure, etc.), handover failure, poor data rates etc. Network congestion is a crucial problem for the telecom operators as it affects the Quality of Service (QoS) of the users directly. An operator has many solutions like offload (across carriers, Wi-Fi, etc.) or antenna techniques (cell split, higher order MIMO, etc.) to handle congestion. However, the congestion patterns in the network are not fully understood and mitigation is done post facto at the expense of the prolonged user experience degradation. The congestion mitigation is critical for operators to retain their subscribers for operator and individual user experience. With 5G, the congestion needs to be handled to as to best utilize the radio resources. Today operators do not have a well-defined mechanism to predict congestion. The main objective of this use case is to use the embedded intelligence of O-RAN to predict the congestion ahead of time, so that operators can keep the cell congestion mitigation solution in place before the congestion is predicted to happen.

### 4.16.3 Proposed solution
CPM (Congestion Prediction & Management) architecture is proposed to detect and mitigate congestion pro-actively. In the CPM architecture, E2 node statistics [counters] are collected by the data collector of SMO. This is done over the O1 interface. The pre-processing of data is also done in the same place. Pre-processing includes adding VNF/cell names/numbers and ids to the data and converting counters into KPI using KPI logic. After preprocessing data is shared with Non-RT RIC deployed in the SMO using a data sharing entity. Non-RT RIC will invoke the corresponding training model/application in an AI server inside SMO (it can be placed outside SMO also). The data cleaning and training will happen and the predicted KPIs will be sent back to CPM rApp in Non-RT RIC. Machine learning models can be used to learn and predict the future traffic for the next hour/day/month. The prediction window can be configured by operators as per the available data and its periodicity. CPM rApp in Non-RT RIC will form the inference. Inference logic to define cell congestion can be like: 1. The average user-perceived IP throughput < P Mbps 2. DL PRB utilization > Q% 3. Average RRC user > R The inference will contain the cell ids, information about whether the cell is congested or not, time stamp of cell congestion and predicted KPI value (to decide the congestion intensity). As per the CPM rApp information in Non-RT RIC, there are two options to mitigate cell congestion as follows: Option a: CPM rApp in Non-RT RIC transfers the inference to the CPM xApp in Near-RT RIC through A1 interface. Near-RT RIC can decide the mitigation solutions as per the inference. Mitigation solutions can include 1. Switching to dual connectivity mode 2. Debarring of user access 3. Load sharing These solutions can be controlled over E2 interface. Option b: Non-RT RIC can also directly help to mitigate the congestion with the help of O1 interface. Some of the mitigation solutions can be 1. Splitting a cell (assuming hardware support available) 2. Add more carriers 3. Switching to higher order MIMO 4. Switching some of the users to Wi-Fi Finally, the E2 nodes feedback can be sent to Non-RT RIC through O1 interface. The proposed CPM solution is shown in figure 4.16.3-1 in detail.
> NOTE: There can be more mitigation solutions apart from the one provided in steps 6a and 6b (see figure 4.16.3-1).
Choosing the mitigation solution is up to the operator to decide as per the congestion intensity (specified in the inference).

### 4.16.4 Benefits of O-RAN architecture
All the main O-RAN components can leverage from proposed CPM use case. It predicts congestion before its occurrence so that an operator can configure the cell and prevent the degradation of QoS of a cell. AI server in SMO can be utilized for model training of KPIs. Similar models can be used to predict KPIs for other use cases as well. Non-RT RIC can be utilized to prepare inference based on predicted KPIs and congestion logic. These inference can be helpful for operators to choose on what solutions can be applied for a give congestion severity. CPM utilize Near-RT RIC for configuring a cell well before the congestion based on the inference and infrastructure dynamics.

## 4.17 Industrial IoT optimization

### 4.17.1 Background information
In 3GPP Industrial Internet of Thing (IIoT) item, new scenarios with high reliability (i.e., 10-5~10-6) have been considered including factory automation, transport industry. To satisfy these scenarios requirements, several key features as below have been supported for IIoT in 5G system, such as data duplication and multi-connectivity enhancement (PDCP duplication, PDU session duplication, QoS flow duplication), time sensitive networking (Ethernet Header Compression (EHC), accurate reference timing provisioning, QoS and scheduling enhancements) and different prioritized transmission multiplexing. Based on O-RAN architecture some of these features can be optimized, e.g., PDCP duplication, EHC, and different prioritized transmission multiplexing. For PDCP duplication, up to 4 RLC entities/legs can be supported. RRC signaling is used for initial configurations. And MAC CE is used for dynamic control. According to 3GPP specifications definition, PDCP duplication can only be applicable for NR. For EHC, PDCP entities associated with DRBs can be configured by RRC to use EHC. Each PDCP entity carrying user plane data can be configured to use EHC. Every PDCP entity uses at most one EHC compressor instance and at most one EHC decompressor instance. For different prioritized transmission multiplexing, the lower priority transmission can be cancelled and preempted by the higher priority transmissions. RRC signaling is used for the related configurations. Network deployment of IIoT use case includes both public network and Non-Public Network (NPN). For public network, network slicing can be used to implement the resource isolation to guarantee the performance of IIoT use case. For NPN or private network, it can have different ways to implement the network deployment. For example, one way is to deploy private network equipment completely, such as gNB, UPF and 5GC. The network equipment can only provide services for the private use. The other way is to use network slicing to implement a virtual NPN, which means only some of the network equipment are deployed for private use, such as gNB. Meanwhile, the others, such as UPF, 5GC, are shared with the public network. The network resource isolation can be implemented by network slicing. If network slicing is used, IIoT use case only focuses on optimization for the specific piece of slicing bearing IIoT traffic.

### 4.17.2 Motivation
The objective of the IIoT optimization use case is to guarantee reliability, and resource utilization efficiency in the above scenarios by optimizing the enhancement mechanisms of related technique features, e.g., PDCP duplication, EHC, different prioritized transmission multiplexing, etc. PDCP duplication and EHC is applied to the corresponding DRB. Improper configuration of PDCP duplication and EHC will leads to the waste of HW/SW and transmission resources. What service or Data Radio Bearer (DRB) needs to use PDCP duplication is not only depends on the reliability requirement, but also related to the network environment, such as network load and channel quality/interference condition. Besides, what service or DRB needs to use EHC is depends on the service characteristics, such as service type, traffic period, duration, and packet size. EHC is especially beneficial when payload sizes are relatively small compared to the overall size of the frame, which is typically the case in IIoT networks based on ethernet. Additionally, for different prioritized transmission multiplexing, which and where users are configured to listen to the Pre-emption Indication (PI), or Cancellation Indication (CI) depends on the service characteristics and network conditions. Improper configuration of PI or CI related configurations will cause invalid monitoring and power consumptions. Therefore, the enhancement mechanisms for IIoT should be semi-static or dynamic configured for some specific users and some specific services based on the service prediction and performance prediction, considering the variant network load and channel quality/interference environment. AI/ML can be used for service prediction and KPI prediction to infer and derive the strategies.

### 4.17.3 Proposed solution
The proposed solutions include Non-RT RIC optimization solution and Near-RT RIC optimization solution. The Non- RT RIC optimization is a slower loop while Near-RT RIC solution has faster loop.

#### 4.17.3.1 Non-RT RIC solution of IIoT optimization
The architecture of Non-RT RIC solution of IIoT optimization use case is given in figure 4.17.3.1-1. Non-RT RIC should be able to retrieve network data (network load, performance metrics, QoS flow 5QI, etc.) and external service information from SMO. The external enrichment information such as service type, traffic period, duration, packet size, KPI requirements can be provided by MEC server, APP server or industrial control platform, etc., to SMO. Non-RT RIC should be able to retrieve configured policy from SMO, e.g., cell edge user reliability KPI target, ethernet header compression efficiency. Additionally, Non-RT RIC should be able to deploy and update AI/ML model from SMO. Non- RT RIC should use AI/ML model to infer and decide related IIoT key techniques configurations, such as whether the QoS flow should map to DRB supporting duplication and EHC, whether high priority traffic can preempt transmission resource by cancelling the low priority traffic transmission. Near-RT RIC should be able to retrieve IIoT related configurations from Non-RT RIC (if it configures over A1). Near-RT RIC should be able to send the configurations to E2 nodes by policy. E2 node (O-CU, O-DU) should provide UE measurement report, performance metrics, etc., to SMO through O1 interface. E2 node should enforce E2 control policy or O1 configuration, if O1 configuration per UE can be supported.

#### 4.17.3.2 Near-RT RIC solution of IIoT optimization
The architecture of Near-RT RIC solution of IIoT optimization use case is given in figure 4.17.3.2-1. Non-RT RIC should be able to retrieve network data (network load, performance metrics, QoS flow 5QI, etc.) and external service information from SMO. The external enrichment information such as service type, traffic period, duration, packet size, KPI requirements can be provided by MEC server, APP server or industrial control platform, etc., to SMO. Non-RT RIC should be able to train AI/ML model for Near-RT RIC. Additionally, Non-RT RIC should be able to evaluate the collected data and A1 policy feedback, if required, and generate or update the appropriate optimization policy, such as reliability targets, and sends it to the Near-RT RIC via A1 interface. Near-RT RIC should be able to deploy or update AI/ML model via O1 interface. Near-RT RIC should be able to receive an A1 policy from the Non-RT RIC and initiate the corresponding optimization procedure. Additionally, Near-RT RIC should be able to evaluate the performance data from the E2 nodes and monitor whether the performance is out of KPI targets which are indicated in the A1 policy. E.g., cell edge user performance cannot meet the A1 policy. Based on service estimation, i.e., service characteristics, and channel quality estimation, and A1 policy, the Near-RT RIC should infer and make decision of PDCP duplication on/off, RLC entity selection and high priority traffic preemption. Then, Near-RT RIC can generate new E2 policies or modify the existing ones to send them to the E2 nodes. If required, Near-RT RIC should send report to Non-RT RIC for evaluation and optimization. E2 node (O-CU, O-DU) should provide network metrics, etc., to SMO through O1 interface. E2 node should provide UE measurement report, performance metrics, and cell resource utility to Near-RT RIC through E2 interface. Additionally, E2 node should enforce E2 control policy.

### 4.17.4 Benefits of O-RAN architecture
The benefits of O-RAN architecture for IIoT use case include the ability to use external enrichment information provided by MEC server, APPs server, or industrial control platform to SMO. Based on the external service information and RAN information, AI/ML method is introduced to help generating IIoT key techniques strategies to improve performance of system and users. For SDAP sub-layer, it can provide semi-static QoS flow to DRB mapping rules. For PDCP and RLC sub-layer, semi-static EHC on/off configuration, semi-static or dynamic PDCP duplication activate/deactivate decision and RLC entities dynamic control/selection decision can be provided. For MAC and PHY, it can provide semi-static and dynamic PI and CI configurations when different prioritized transmissions are multiplexed. Besides, multi-E2 node coordination will be beneficial based on O-RAN architecture.

## 4.18 BBU pooling to achieve RAN elasticity

### 4.18.1 Background information
Driving cost efficiency by improving the elasticity of workloads is one of the principal goals of cloudification. This use case presents BBU pooling as an opportunity to achieve RAN elasticity. O-RAN CADS describes multiple deployment options for the O-RAN cloudified NFs, which allows for different variants of centralization of these resources in the edge and regional clouds. In particular, cloudified BBUs can be deployed on a common hardware pool, centralized at the same cloud location. This centralization opens up the opportunity for O-RUs to be flexibly mapped to BBUs, thereby enabling RAN elasticity, while potentially lowering the costs in the long term.

### 4.18.2 Motivation
Pooling of BBU resources provides many benefits like having to maintain only a single large, controlled environment for many cell sites, better resiliency and agility to deal with unexpected failures and increases in demands, and allowing capacity to be added incrementally and assigned to cell sites as needed resulting in better overall utilization. More importantly, BBU pooling provides significant statistical multiplexing benefits due to better resource consolidation. The total resources required from the shared pool will be less than total resources required across distributed locations, because the peak of the sum of the traffic will generally be lower than the sum of the individual cell site traffic peaks. BBU pooling enables more aggressive capacity dimensioning based on different percentiles of resource consumption rather than for the peak consumption. This proposal addresses the scenarios where both O-CUs and O-DUs can pooled, but for simplicity the following clauses focus on the description of O-DU pooling.

### 4.18.3 Proposed solution
A high-level depiction of approaches to O-DU pooling is shown in figure 4.18.3-1. The O-DU resources for multiple cell sites are pooled at a single centralized location or the O-DU pool. The Cloud Access Switch (CAS) at the O-DU pool aggregates traffic from the multiple front haul gateways and routes it to the appropriate O-DU blade based on the load balancing requirement. For the O-DU pooling use case, it is assumed that an open front haul exists with O-RAN defined 7-2x split. Based on the association between O-RUs and O-DUs, and the granularity at which the traffic is assigned from the O-RUs to the O-DUs, we define the following classes of O-DU pooling. 1) Class 0 pooling: A scenario where an O-RU is assigned to a single specific O-DU statically, and the traffic from the O-RU is not split into subsets that could be assigned to different O-DUs. This is the same as simple centralization as defined in CADS V2.0. With class 0 pooling, re-assigning an O-RU to connect to a different O-DU would require significant “hands on” activity, and is performed very infrequently during specific maintenance windows. 2) Class 1 pooling: A scenario where n O-RUs are initially assigned to a single O-DU during a specific period of time, but the O-RUs can be re-assigned to different O-DU at any point of time via orchestration procedures with the help of SMO. This automated re-assignment can be triggered outside maintenance windows, based on various performance criterion or for load balancing. Like with class 0 pooling, the traffic from the O-RU is not split into subsets that could be assigned to different O-DUs. 3) Class 2 pooling: A scenario where n O-RUs are assigned to m O-DUs, and subsets of traffic from one O-RU are dynamically distributed (and load-balanced) across the O-DU resources within the O-DU pool using a cluster aware scheduler. With all classes of O-DU pooling, the total resources required from the shared pool will be less than total resources required across distributed locations, because the peak of the sum of the traffic will generally be lower than the sum of the individual cell site traffic peaks. In particular, class 1 and class 2 O-DU pooling enables more aggressive capacity dimensioning based on different percentiles of resource consumption rather than for the peak consumption. However, the key distinction between the classes of pooling is the granularity at which traffic can be load balanced across the O-DUs, which provides different statistical multiplexing benefits. While class 0 pooling provides a one-time statistical multiplexing gains at the time of initial deployment due to the centralization, class 1 pooling allows further load balancing benefits due to the automated and flexible re-mapping of O-RUs to the O-DUs periodically. However, the re-assignment of O-RUs needs to be performed during maintenance windows (or via hitless migration) to minimize service interruptions. Finally, class 1 pooling enables better handling of hot spots, and more efficient management of traffic loads and maintenance/upgrades. On the other hand, class 2 pooling dynamically assigns subsets of traffic to the O-DU resources in the shared O-DU pool. Hence, if some cell sites experience light traffic demand, while others experience high traffic demand, then subsets of traffic can be routed to O-DU resources in the shared pool such that the traffic is optimally consolidated among the O- DU resources needed to meet the performance requirements, leading to significant statistical multiplexing benefits. At one extreme, class 2 pooling allows each O-DU in the O-DU pool to have similar load (once the optimal number of blades have been predicted for a given time period), if each UE flow or each slot processing can be mapped to the least-busy blade for the duration of that flow. In addition, there is no service interruption as with class 1 pooling. Class 2 pooling could also be performed with more coarse-grained distribution of traffic subsets to the O-DUs. For example, traffic could be mapped to the least-utilized blade on a per UE basis or on a per-carrier basis within a TRP.

### 4.18.4 Benefits of O-RAN architecture
As described in clause 4.18.3, both class 1 and class 2 pooling are enabled by the O-RAN open fronthaul with LLS (option 7-2x split). Further, for class 1 pooling, O-RAN architecture standardizes the SMO functions needed to enable pooled BBUs including:
- Management of O-DU & O-RU (registration/de-registration of O-RU to O-DU, registration of RU locations to
SMO). Load and P

# O -R U
erform ance M etrics

# O -D U
b lad e 1 C

# O -R U O
lo -R u U d A SM O

# O -D U
… b lad e 2 c c e s s S w

# O -R U
C la s s itc h P R em ap O -R U s

# O -D U P o o l O -D U
b lade 3 O ption 7.2x split

# O -R U O O -R U
o o lin g -R U O -RU O -RU Cluster aw are Scheduler

# O -D U O -D U O -D U
blade 1 blade 2 blade k … C lo u d A c c e s s S w itc h

# O -RU O -RU O -RU
n O -R U to k O -D U Blades C la s s 2 P o o lin g

# O -D U P ool
O ption 7.2x split … O -RU n
- Orchestration features via O1/O2 interfaces and procedures for remapping O-RUs from one O-DU to another O-
DU, implementing the orchestration control loops provided by the Non-RT RIC, hitless draining of cell traffic from one O-DU to another O-DU.
- Monitoring performance/fault metrics to determine DU load and KPIs.
Class 2 pooling is relatively less explored in the industry, aiming to provide fine-grained load scheduling across the O- DUs in the pool. For class 2 pooling, O-RAN architecture helps with:
- Affinity of control and downlink data, supported by cluster aware scheduler.
- Affinity between control and uplink data, supported by the cloud access switch or in the O-RU.
- Configuration of the O-DU to support a wider range of sectors through the cluster aware scheduler.
- Monitoring performance/fault metrics to determine DU load and KPIs.
- Triggers for the scale-in/scale-out workflows in the SMO that manages the O-DU pool.
- Fine-grained load balancing functions through the RIC that standardizes the role of CU-CP high.

## 4.19 Integrated SON function within the O-RAN framework

### 4.19.1 Background information
Self-Organizing Network (SON) functionalities for 5G (3GPP TS 28.313 [i.14]) reduces the cost of running a mobile network by providing automated configuration, optimization, protection and healing functions and thus eliminating manual configuration of network elements right from initial deployment through the network operation. SON also helps better network performance and customer experience and can significantly improve OPEX-to-revenue ratio and help in realizing avoidable CAPEX. SON is an automation technology that enables the network to set itself up and self-manage resources and configuration to achieve optimal performance. The SON functions are handled by SON algorithms either individually or in groups. SON algorithms monitor the network(s) by collecting management data including MDAS (Management Data Analytics Service) data and subsequently analyze the data to determine if there are issues in the network(s) and what needs to be resolved. 3GPP SON specification TS 28.313 [i.14] specifies the concepts, use cases, requirements, and procedures for the SON functionality. Based on the location of the SON algorithm, the implementation of SON solution is termed as
- Centralized SON (C-SON - where the SON algorithms are executed in the 3GPP management system)
- Distributed SON (D-SON - where the SON algorithms are executed in the network function layer) and
- Hybrid SON (where the SON algorithm execution is spread across the network function layers and the
management layers). Since the interfaces between various entities hosting the SON algorithms are not standardized, there can be interoperability issues in multi-vendor network deployments. This is further explained in detail in clause 4.19.2.

### 4.19.2 Motivation
The objective of this use case is to enable the realization of SON functions in the O-RAN architecture framework i.e., as rApps, xApps or as management entity functions through open interfaces in a way that inter vendor interoperability issues can be addressed. The following SON functions are of interest for operators for this use case definition:
- Initial PCI allocation, conflict resolution and ANR (Automatic Neighbor Relations)
- Mobility Load Balancing (MLB) and Mobility Robustness Optimization (MRO)
- RACH optimization
- Energy savings
- Coverage and capacity optimization
When the SON algorithms are realized in a centralized location, as a C-SON variant, the interface between C-SON and the RAN nodes, being proprietary, demands the operator to choose the same vendor for both SON solution and the RAN nodes. When the SON algorithms are realized in distributed fashion, as a D-SON variant, the interface between D-SON and the RAN nodes could be proprietary and internal to vendor’s design. The performance of such vendor specific SON solutions affect KPIs as typical 5G deployments are expected to be multi-vendor based. When operators use management entities like NMS, EMS from a different vendor and RAN nodes (gNB-CUs, gNB-DUs) from different vendors, the following issues are observed:
- D-SON implementations in different gNB-CU vendors cannot interoperate though they communicate each other
via open Xn interface.
- C-SON can be realized as either collocated with management entities (e.g., EMS/NMS) or as a standalone entity.
Integrating the C-SON as a standalone entity with RAN nodes could lead to interoperability issues due to vendor specific interfaces. Integrating third party SON solutions partially leads to degradation of the overall operator KPIs. Non interoperable SON/RRM implementations have been seen to significantly impact the overall network performance. Even with operator assisted vendor and integrated third-party SON Solutions, it is difficult to deterministically quantify/confirm the output performance mainly due to the nature of multi-vendor implementations. The nature of band allocations in different geographic regions have led to some operators to consider using these new bands along with LTE bands for 5G network deployment. Large-scale deployment of small cells in urban areas is required to accommodate large traffic especially with smaller millimeter wave band cells (i.e., cell ISD of 100~200 meters). Therefore, the acquisition, deployment, and operation of ultra-dense cells become more important. This will force operators to explore small-sized and low weight base stations where multi-vendor interoperability of end-to-end system and realization of SON technology becomes necessary.

### 4.19.3 Proposed solution
The general SON functional solution in the O-RAN architecture is shown in figure 4.19.3-1. The SON algorithms are realized as rApps or as xApps or as a combination thereof through open interfaces in a way that inter vendor interoperability issues can be addressed. The A1 and E2 and optionally O1 interfaces will be used for the realization of the SON functions. Tim e in sen sitive SO N fun ction s im p lem en ted w ithin th e m anagem en t en tity. Tim e in sen sitive SO N fun ction s im p lem en ted w ithin th e N on -R T R IC th ro u gh rA p p s. Enh an ced O 1 in terface to su pp ort all th e SO N fu n ctio n s. Tim e sen sitive SO N fu n ctio n s im p lem en ted w ithin th e N ear-R T R IC th ro u gh xA p p s. M S e rv ic e , M a n

# S O N fu n c tio n s .
a n a g e m e n t E n tity S

# S O N fu n c tio n s .
N o n -R T R

# O N fu n c tio n s .
N e a r-R T R IC

# E 2 N o d e .
O p e n F ro n th a u l.

# O -R U
. M IC

# L M
O p o d e nM e l. F ro -P la nn Enh an ced A 1 in terface to su pp ort all th e SO fu n ctio n s/P ro files. Enh an ced E2 in terface to sup p ort all th e SO fu n ctio n s. th a u l e . N N As shown in figure 4.19.3-1, time insensitive SON functions like initial PCI, initial ANR, and energy saving can be implemented either at Non-RT RIC using separate rApp or in the management entities like EMS, NMS or at the SMO. A be exchanged either directly via O1 interface or via A1 & E2 interfaces. The dynamic or time sensitive SON functions will be realized in the xApps of RT-RIC. The actual SON algorithm implementation within xApps/rApps/management entities are implementation specific and it is out of scope of the current proposal, and the SON functions provide the derived SON configurations to the associated E2 nodes via E2 interface (in case of xApps). This approach helps provide a framework for the realization of the following SON functions within the existing O-RAN architecture. As an illustrative example, consider the PCI allocation SON function: When an operator wants to deploy a cell, the location for the E2 node/O-RU deployment is identified. As part of the plug- and-play functionality, the E2 node first establishes the link with the management entity via the O1 interface, to get the FCAPS configurations. Before the E2 node becomes operational, it needs the initial PCI allocated. At this stage as the E2 node will not be able to establish any link with the Near-RT RIC, there should be some SON functions within the SMO that can derive the initial SON configurations. Within the SMO, the SON functions can be realized either as rApps or through SON functions within the management entities. The initial PCI SON function should be equipped to get the location information of the E2 node being deployed. This can be provided by the E2 node itself across the O1 interface or an application can directly provide the location information to the management entity. The management entity can internally share it with the initial PCI function rApp. The initial PCI rApp can use this location information [azimuth, elevation, altitude, etc.,] to derive the possible neighbor nodes already deployed in and around the current node’s location and the associated PCIs of these neighbors. The rApp can then derive a mutually exclusive PCI for the current node being deployed. This derived PCI acts as an initial PCI for the E2 node being deployed. This allocated PCI will be shared to the management entity internally and which in turn forwards to the node via the O1 interface. The E2 node will be operational with this initial PCI. Similarly, the initial PCI SON function can also be implemented within the management entity itself. In this case it can access the node’s location information within the management entity database and the rest of the functionalities defined above for rApp case follows. When an E2 node becomes operational, there can be race conditions with other E2 nodes becoming operational resulting in a PCI conflict. To detect and correct such PCI conflicts during the lifetime of a deployed node, there can be a dynamic PCI SON functions, which could reside at the Near-RT RIC level as such PCI conflicts that needs to be detected and corrected at the earliest.

### 4.19.4 Benefits of O-RAN architecture
The functional entities of the current O-RAN architecture can be reused to realize SON functions to operators. The O- RAN specified interfaces such as O1, E2 and A1 interfaces will also be reused with appropriate modifications to enable the SON functions. By using the O-RAN framework, third-party SON algorithms (realized as an rApp, xApp or as a management entity function) can be easily integrated to achieve optimal performance, across a multi-vendor deployment scenario.

## 4.20 Shared O-RU

### 4.20.1 Background information
The existing fronthaul specifications include role-based access control capabilities to restrict permissions to certain sections of an O-RU’s configuration based on privileges as well as supporting parallel management interfaces for realizing hybrid fronthaul deployments. However, the current lower layer split architecture is constrained by having an O-RU node operate with a single O-DU node. This limits the ability of fronthaul system to be used to deliver enhanced use cases where multiple O-DU nodes can be used to enhance the capabilities offered using O-RAN’s open fronthaul specifications.

### 4.20.2 Motivation
Already defined use cases, including RAN sharing as defined in clause 4.7 and multi-vendor slices as defined in clause 4.10 describe use cases where a common O-RU is operated with a plurality of O-DUs. More generically, deployments of a common O-RU node with multiple O-DU nodes offers the ability to support enhanced capabilities when using O-RAN’s lower layer split, including:
- Enhanced scalability and/or enhanced availability and/or enable access-specific node deployments in fronthaul
systems, where multiple O-DU nodes are deployed by a single operator and connected to a Shared O-RU.
- Enhanced sharing capabilities where multiple O-DU nodes are deployed by different operators and connected to
a common Shared O-RU node. For single operator deployments, the decomposition of the RAN into O-RU and O-DU functional components based on interoperable O-RAN defined interfaces enables new approaches to the delivery of enhanced systems whereby multiple O-DU nodes can be deployed in different configurations, including:
- “active/standby configuration” to support increased availability,
- “horizontal configuration” by adding more O-DU nodes to (or removing nodes from) an O-RAN system to
enable scale in/out,
- “access-centric configuration” to support combined LTE and NR deployments, where one or more O-DU nodes
are used to deliver LTE functionality and one or more other O-DU nodes are used to deliver NR functionality,
- configuration supporting a case to add new O-DU provided from a different vendor, migrating to O-DU with
providing slices. Radio resource is allocated among O-DUs/slices dynamically. Single O-CU will cover multiple O-DUs per UE. As described elsewhere in this document, RAN sharing is envisioned as an efficient and sustainable way to reduce the network deployment costs, while increasing network capacity and coverage. Accordingly, the open and multi-vendor nature of the O-RAN architecture can accelerate the introduction and development of RAN sharing solutions. For multi-operator deployments, the decomposition of the RAN into O-RU and O-DU functional components based on interoperable O-RAN defined interfaces leads to new options for RAN sharing:
- Shared O-RU, where a common O-RU node is shared and dedicated O-RU resources (e.g., spectrum, transmit
power, etc.) and dedicated O-DU node is used by each sharing operator.
- Shared O-RU, where a common O-RU is shared and dedicated O-DU node is used by each sharing operator and
O-RU resources are dynamically shared between sharing operators. Whilst there are a variety of RAN sharing deployment models, a key motivation of this use case is to enable O-RAN based architectures to be able to support Shared O-RU based RAN sharing. In the conventional radio node-based sharing, a “host” operator makes available a shared radio node as part of distributed antenna system (DAS) that can be partitioned between one or more mobile operators. The host operator then integrates with the RAN equipment of the one or more Mobile Operators (MNOs), where the interface between DAS radio node and RAN equipment can re-use an attenuated Uu interface. Translating this into the O-RAN architecture, the host operator is responsible for operating the Shared O- RU that can integrate with the O-DUs of one or more mobile operators. Hereafter such a host operator is referred to as a Shared Resource Operator – Host (SRO-H) and the mobile operators operating the O-DUs are referred to as Shared Resource Operator - Tenants (SRO-T). The SRO-H can operate its own O-DU and O-CU functionalities, in which case the O-RU is shared between the SRO-H and SRO-T(s). Alternatively, the host can operate the O-RU as a neutral-host, in which case the O-RU is shared between the SRO-Ts. Hereafter such a host operator is referred to as a Shared Resource Operator - Neutral Host (SRO-NH). When such RAN sharing is coupled with established open fronthaul specified shared cell functionality, where multiple O-RU nodes are used to support a common cell, then it is evident that there is an opportunity for the O-RAN ecosystem to be re-applied to address the distributed antenna system market; a market that is estimated to have a global revenue of over USD 19 Bn by 2025 according to Market Data Forecast (https://www.marketdataforecast.com).

### 4.20.3 Proposed solution

#### 4.20.3.1 Static allocation of resources between O-DU nodes

##### 4.20.3.1.1 Introduction
The initial phase of the proposed solution is to enhance the current open fronthaul architecture to enable a common O- RU node to operate with multiple O-DU nodes with the limitation that resources are statically allocated to separate O- DU nodes.

##### 4.20.3.1.2 Single operator use case
The single operator use cases are shown in figure 4.20.3.1.2-1, for either hybrid or hierarchical open fronthaul deployments. Because resources are statically allocated, co-ordination of O-RU resources is performed by the operator’s SMO. In this figure, two set of O-CU and O-DU are described but single O-CU can also cover multiple O-DUs per one UE. In the case of active/standby operation, the SMO is responsible for configuring identical carrier configurations on separate O-DU nodes. The data model of the O-RU is enhanced with capabilities to associate the fronthaul transport flows associated with an active O-DU node, which necessarily includes the O-DU node’s CU-plane transport endpoint, with the corresponding fronthaul transport flows associated with a standby O-DU node. The operation of the stand-by O-DU node is enhanced such that carrier configuration of the O-RU is omitted, which is instead performed only by the active O-DU node. The stand-by O-DU node subscribes to receive supervision notifications from the O-RU. The switchover from active to stand-by O-DU node can be initiated by the SMO, e.g., enabling operation of a planned procedure to de- commission the active O-DU node. Alternatively, the switchover from active to standby O-DU node can be initiated automatically whereby the standby O-DU node becomes aware that the active O-DU has become non-operational which triggers the switchover procedure. In the case of scale in/scale out operation, the SMO statically partitions O-RU resources between a set of candidate O- DU nodes. The SMO oversees the definition and reporting of long-term traffic metrics in a whole cluster of cells that can be served by the candidate O-DUs, e.g., using the Non-RT RIC. The SMO uses the O1 interface to either i) activate and configure or ii) de-activate and de-commission candidate O-DU nodes in response to varying traffic load. In the case of “access-centric configuration” to support combined LTE and NR deployments, the SMO statically partitions O-RU resources between LTE and NR carriers. The SMO uses the O1 interface to configure one or more O-DU nodes for each of the respective radio technologies, e.g., including associated DSS aspects such as MBSFN configuration, subframe masks and rate matching configurations.

##### 4.20.3.1.3 Multi-operator use case
The multi-operator use cases are shown in figure 4.20.3.1.3-1, where (a) shows the deployment with hierarchical open fronthaul, (b) shows the deployment with hybrid open fronthaul and (c) shows the deployment with neutral host. In all three cases an SRO-H enters into an agreement with one or more SRO-Ts to offer access to the resources of a Shared O- RU. The sharing agreement covers off those aspects of the O-RU’s resources which are available to the SRO-T and which can be used in the SRO-T’s configuration. In all cases, the SRO-H is responsible for configuring the common aspects of the Shared O-RU. The Shared O-RU is enhanced with additional role-based access control capabilities to restrict the ability of an SRO-T from accessing the configuration of the Shared O-RU associated with resources to which it has not been authorized, e.g., those resources that have been allocated to a second SRO-T. Furthermore, the Shared O-RU’s enhanced role-based access control capabilities restrict the ability of an SRO-T from receiving performance management information to that which is associated with its authorized set of Shared O-RU resources. Additional capabilities are defined to support supervision of the communications link between the Shared O-RU and an SRO-T, with an alarm indication able to indicate to the SRO- H that the communications to the SRO-T have been interrupted. Unlike in conventional O-RU operation, the loss of supervision to an SRO-T O-DU does not result in the O-RU ceasing all radio transmissions and performing an autonomous reset. Instead, only those carriers associated with the SRO-T O-DU are disabled. The SRO-H is able to validate that the SRO configuration adheres to the specifics of the sharing agreement between the parties. The SMO of the SRO-H can configure to be notified of modifications to the O-RU’s configuration datastore. These notifications can be used to confirm that the sharing agreement is being adhered to. Any remedial action required, e.g., if the SRO-T configuration is not in compliance with the sharing agreement, is handled between the SRO-H and the SRO-T.

#### 4.20.3.2 Dynamic allocation of resources between O-DU nodes

##### 4.20.3.2.1 Introduction
This phase of the proposed solution is to enhance the current open fronthaul architecture to enable a common O-RU node to operate with multiple O-DU nodes with the limitation that resources are dynamically allocated to separate O-DU nodes.

##### 4.20.3.2.2 Single operator use case
The single operator use cases are shown in figure 4.20.3.2.2-1 (shows only hybrid model), for either hybrid or hierarchical open fronthaul deployments. Because resources are dynamically allocated, co-ordination of O-RU resources is performed by the Near RT-RIC or M-plane based on demand and performance for slices. To keep improving frequency efficiency with providing slices concurrently, radio resource allocation will be expected frame by frame or in seconds. A single O- CU will cover multiple O-DUs per UE. DU

### 4.20.4 Benefits of O-RAN architecture
The proposed single operator Shared O-RU architectures shown in figure 4.20.3.1.2-1 let operators use the open fronthaul to enable a common O-RU node to operate with a plurality of O-DU nodes. Such a capability can be used to deliver enhanced deployment scenarios where multiple O-DU nodes are used to increase the resilience or scalability of the O- RAN fronthaul architecture. The proposed access-centric approach allows operators to utilize different O-DU vendor’s strengths for a particular radio technology, enabling a Shared O-RU node configured for DSS to operate with an LTE O- DU node from vendor#1 and an NR O-DU node from vendor#2. The proposed multi-operator Shared O-RU architectures shown in figure 4.20.3.1.3-1 let operators use the open fronthaul to enable a single O-RU node to be shared between multiple different operators. The architecture allows shared resource operators to configure Shared O-RU resources independently from configuration and operating strategies of the other shared resource operators while preventing one shared resource operator from gaining insight into the configuration and operational status of Shared O-RU resources allocated to a second shared resource operator. Moreover, the architecture enables the SRO-H to operate as an independent neutral host provider.
> NOTE:
Use cases where resources are dynamically allocated to separate O-DU nodes for multi-operator use case are not defined in the present document.

## 4.21 Network energy saving

### 4.21.1 Background information
Energy Consumption (EC) of the RAN is an important topic for network operators, especially for 5G network. RAN Energy Saving (ES) depends on rigorous planning and configuration. Due to the varying nature of traffic load and to user mobility, the optimization of EC of the RAN is complex and can be applied to different network layers and in different time scales. There is a risk that RAN equipment consume much energy while serving low traffic, or even no traffic at all. Different ES features are investigated in industry, some of which are deployed in operational networks. Examples are deep sleep mode (e.g., shut down of a base station of a given technology), carrier shut down, and RF channels’ switch off/on). More recently, short time scales ES mechanisms have been proposed, at symbol-, subframe- and frame-levels, known as Advanced Sleep Modes (ASM). O-RU is responsible for the major part of the mobile network EC. EC of VNFs have not yet been standardized in Release of 3GPP and can be only estimated, e.g., based on mean vCPU usage of the underlying VMs. EC measurements will be further addressed in release 18. In O-RAN O-Cloud, the only feature with relation to ES is scale in/out that is mentioned in the use case document [i.22]. Sub-use cases involving scale-in/scale-out processes, workload placement or HW processors’ sleep modes are not defined in the present document.

### 4.21.2 Motivation
ES for legacy and 5G networks can be carried out using manual configuration or SON functions. 3GPP defines both centralized and distributed ES features [i.13], which are mainly targeting intra- or inter-RAT cell on/off switching. The motivation of the ES use case is to leverage on O-RAN AI/ML services and open interfaces in order to introduce optimized ES and EE solutions involving switching off/on of different network components at different time scale. Will be considered off/on switching solutions supported by 3GPP configurations or supported by propriety implementations that require additional standardization.

### 4.21.3 Proposed solution
The ES use cases is divided into three sub-use cases, according to the time scale of the control and the controlled system involved: 1. Carrier and cell switch off/on ES. Time scale: non-real-time for both control and controlled system. The feature aims at reducing O-CU/DU/RU power consumption by switching off/on one or more carriers or a cell of a given technology. AI/ML assisted solutions in the Non-RT RIC can be used to control the traffic load of the carriers and the cell, and to automatically decide when to switch off/on one or more carriers or a cell using O1 and/or open fronthaul M-plane parameter configurations. Off/on switching is accompanied with adequate traffic steering, guided by policies, to ensure service continuity and quality of service. Carrier switch off/on has two modes of operation: (i) hibernate mode in which the radio’s power amplifiers remain with minimum current draw, and (ii) complete switch off. 2. RF channel switch off/on ES. Time scale: non- or near-real-time are possible for both control and controlled system. This feature aims at reducing power consumption of O-RU with massive MIMO deployment by switching off/on certain RF channels [i.8]. Using AI/ML assisted solutions, rApp or xApp will trigger switching off/on certain RF channels, based on traffic information such as load, user location and mobility. As example, one can switch off 32 out of 64 RF channels in a digital M-MIMO architecture or reduce the number of layers and/or number of multi-user scheduled UEs in a hybrid architecture. The O-RU reconfiguration can be performed using the open fronthaul M-plane from E2 node or SMO. 3. Advanced sleep mode ES. Time scale for control: near-real-time. Time scale for the controlled system: real-time and near-real-time. This feature is expected to reduce power consumption by partially switching off O-RU components. The impact of ASMs on O-DU and O-CU EC is not defined in the present document. Using multi- dimensional data, e.g., traffic load, user service type, energy efficiency measurements, etc., the Near-RT RIC can configure cell parameters, such as the SSB periodicity needed for the operation of ASMs.

#### 4.21.3.1 ES sub-use case 1: Carrier and cell switch off/on
The carrier and cell switch off/on is a non-real-time sub-use case where the Non-RT RIC is in charge of configuring E2 nodes. This ES feature can be invoked in response to changes in traffic load or change in the cell/carrier off/on switching policy. The Non-RT RIC will use the O1 interface to configure the parameters of the O-CU/O-DU and will use the open fronthaul M-plane from the SMO to configure O-RU switch off/on, after triggering handovers to move users to other cells/carriers. The O1 interface is also used to collect traffic information per cell and per carrier to the SMO as input to the Non-RT RIC. rApps hosting AI/ML assisted solutions can be used to achieve optimized ES configurations, such as the switching time that can provide optimal desired tradeoff between ES and users’ QoS. The concept of carrier and cell switch off/on ES sub-use case is given in figure 4.21.3.1-1.

#### 4.21.3.2 EE/ES sub-use case 2: RF channel switch off/on
The first implementation of this sub-use case is non-real-time. This solution is expected to reduce power consumption by switching off certain RF channels of O-RU with massive MIMO deployment. Based on data collected from E2 nodes and O-RU, the solution will automatically switch off/on certain RF channels and configure the massive MIMO system to minimize the impact on users’ QoS. The concept of RF channel switch off/on ES sub-use case: Non-real-time implementation is given in figure 4.21.3.2-1. The second implementation of this sub-use case is near-real-time. As in the non-real-time implementation, this solution is expected to reduce EC by switching off certain RF channels of O-RU with massive MIMO. The AI/ML training host in the SMO/Non-RT RIC will train AI/ML model based on data collected from applications and/or O1 interface such as cell traffic, users’ QoS, users’ speed or geolocation data. The Near-RT RIC uses the trained model to select the off/on switching time and to infer the configuration of the massive MIMO system based on information from E2 and open fronthaul M-plane interfaces. The concept of RF channel switch off/on ES sub-use case: Near-real-time implementation is given in figure 4.21.3.2-2.

#### 4.21.3.3 ES sub-use case 3: Advanced sleep modes
ASMs are used to reduce EC by partially and automatically switching off O-RU components, at a duration of a symbol (ASM1), a slot (ASM2) and a frame (ASM3). The deeper (longer) is the sleep mode level, the longer is its wake-up time. The impact of ASMs on O-DU and O-CU is not defined in the present document. The aim of this sub-use case is to maximize the ASMs duration (and the corresponding ES) in which O-RU components are switched-off, taking into account user QoS constraints in terms of latency. To this end, ASM activation policy can be set (e.g., the order and number of ASMs in each level), and system configurations can be applied (such as setting the SSB periodicity; compress data transmissions in particular slots and empty the remaining ones that are put “into sleep state”; reduce the synchronization signals’ transmissions and the opportunities for random access and paging). The ASM activation policy and configurations can be derived using AI/ML models, aiming at achieving optimal tradeoffs between ES and QoS. The AI/ML training host in the SMO/Non-RT RIC will train an AI/ML model based on measurements such as traffic load and latency, on service information and will derive optimal system configuration (e.g., SSB periodicity, ASM sleep level and sleep duration). The Near-RT RIC will request the AI/ML model from A1 interface that, once deployed and activated, will optimize ES by setting ASM policies and system configurations via E2 and open fronthaul M-plane interfaces. The concept of advance sleep mode ES sub-use case is given in figure 4.21.3.3-1.

### 4.21.4 Benefits of O-RAN architecture
The proposed solutions will support the AI/ML assisted solutions at both Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC as inference hosts, to efficiently optimize ES and EE at different time scales. The ES solutions will leverage on O-RAN open interfaces to support the use case in a multi-vendor disaggregated RAN.

## 4.22 MU-MIMO optimization

### 4.22.1 Background information
MU-MIMO is one of the key technologies available for increasing UE and cell capacities using existing time/frequency resources. The use of multiple antennas enables the pointing of beams to multiple UEs with each beam spatially filtering the interference from the other beams. This has the potential to provide higher total cell capacity when there are N eNB/gNB antennas. In a commercial deployment, some subscribers can be stationary, some can be pedestrian moving slowly, and some can be moving at high speed. Traditional MU-MIMO solutions are very sensitive to subscriber mobility and as a result the capacity gains achieved with multiple antennas is limited. New beamforming solutions are emerging that support MU-MIMO with less time sensitivity allowing them to be implemented in the Near-RT RIC. These solutions are applicable to both downlink and uplink data channels and both TDD and FDD, and can provide high user and cell performance for subscribers moving wide range of speeds.

### 4.22.2 Motivation
The MU-MIMO optimization use case aims at enabling new spatial multiplexing and precoding solutions that have the potential for increasing user and overall cell capacity in a massive MIMO deployment area by selecting appropriate users over time and frequency resources, and for each selection of users recommending the applicable precoding coefficients and Modulation and Coding Schemes (MCS) for most efficient resource usage.

### 4.22.3 Proposed solution
The use case proposes to have the MU-MIMO optimization function as an application in the Near-RT RIC. The application collects information from the E2 nodes and sends control messages to the E2 nodes using the E2 interface. The main functionalities of the Near-RT RIC application include collecting UE state from the O-CU, configuring the O- CU/O-DU to report RRC parameters and UL/DL traffic and channel information, using the reported channel and traffic information to select the best UEs to be spatially multiplexed, calculating for each selection the applicable frequency/time resources, the MCS, and the beamforming coefficients for best MU-MIMO performance, and sending the recommended UEs selections, applicable resources, MCS, and beamforming coefficients to the O-DU over E2 interface. The E2 nodes (O-CU/O-DU) provide RRC parameters and UL/DL traffic and channel information to the Near-RT RIC and the O-DU can use the information received from the Near-RT RIC to schedule MU-MIMO transmissions, while still handling time critical events separately.

### 4.22.4 Benefits of O-RAN architecture
Using a RIC-based implementation of MU-MIMO can benefit from using the near-real-time data from the E2 nodes to influence how the 4G/5G MAC scheduler assigns the near-term resources and how the PHY forms the MU-MIMO beams for achieving improved per subscriber and overall cell throughput performance in certain deployment scenarios. Using the RIC-based implementation to support this use case, where the Near-RT RIC enables near-real-time control and optimization of services and resources in multiple O-CUs/O-DUs, also opens the door for future expansion of the MU- MIMO to supporting CoMP covering both ICIC and joint multi sites MU-MIMO.

## 4.23 Sharing Non-RT RIC data with the core

### 4.23.1 Background information
As networks have become more and more complicated, the need has arisen for complex analytics, being available in close to real time, so as to facilitate automated network “control loops” through entities such as the Non-RT RIC and the Near- RT RIC. The need for such analytics is not, however, restricted to the RAN but also exists in the 5G core. Thus, 3GPP has defined the NWDAF function in the 3GPP 5GC architecture [i.23]. The NWDAF uses standard interfaces to deliver analytics to other 5G core network functions, which use those analytics to optimize their network processing. This is a similar pattern that we see with the Non-RT RIC, which uses a standard interface (i.e., A1-EI) to deliver analytics to 5G RAN network functions (i.e., Near-RT RIC instances), which use those analytics to optimize network processing. 3GPP defines a plethora of optional functionality that an NWDAF can provide, but fundamental to the NWDAF is a functionality 3GPP defines as the Analytics Logical Function (AnLF). AnLF is the basic ability, perhaps using AIML, to produce analytics information content useful to 5GC NFs, which includes determining what source data content is necessary to do so. It is this AnLF functionality that the NWDAF function holds in common with the Non-RT RIC. So that any 5G core NF can semantically interpret the analytic content produced by any NWDAF, 3GPP has defined the specific “analytics Ids” associated with each NWDAF-producible analytic type, as well as the data structures associated with each analytic Id. It is worth noting that O-RAN has resisted similarly defining the data structures into which all rApp analytics should be carried so as to allow for innovation. rApps can produce analytics for multiple data consumers, such as other rApps, Near-RT RIC/xApps, general external entities (e.g., an Application Function, AF). In such a multi-consumer environment, it is a good architectural practice to avoid coupling of the data producer with the data consumer, in fact even hiding from the producer the identity of its data consumers or even whether the data consumers are single or multiple. This is, in fact, how the R1 DME is defined. In keeping with this principle, rApps will likely structure the information content of instance data they publish over R1 in a manner that is "generally useful" and not tailored to any particular data consumer. Some data consumers will be able to accept these "generally useful" data structures as is. Such might be the case, for example, for an external Application Function (AF). However, as described above, this is not the case with the 5G core NFs. One common pattern that will be used in various solution proposals builds on an internal functionality of the Non-RT RIC, background on which will be described here. As per [i.29], an rApp data producer should "one-time" register its output via DME services. If that rApp also intends to make its data also available via A1-EI, that rApp should also "one- time" register that same analytic output as an A1-EI type ([i.29], clause 5.3.3.2). Because A1-EI defines some standard data structures, presumably this A1-EI registration would also include the information necessary for the A1-related function to determine how to map any "generally useful" information content into these A1-EI data structures. 3GPP has also defined that the 5G core NFs would use the NRF discover which specific analytics types (analytics Ids) are available and the service endpoint through which to obtain instances of that analytic. In addition, 3GPP has defined an optional capability through which the 5G core NF can leverage the UDM to discover available UE-level analytics and the service endpoint through which to obtain instances of such analytics for a given UE.

### 4.23.2 Motivation
There exist use cases such that the Non-RT RIC will produce, as a by-product of its normal function, analytics that would be useful to the core. For these purposes an analytic would be considered to be of ‘useful interest’ to a 5G core NF if that analytic corresponds in its semantic content to an ‘output analytic’ described in 3GPP TS 23.288 [i.24]. For example, it would be within the scope of the Non-RT RIC to produce analytics related to UE mobility and QoS sustainability (e.g., traffic steering and congestion prediction and management). The semantic content of these could reasonably correspond to that described in the "output analytic" structures of the UE mobility and QoS sustainability analytics types appropriate to an NWDAF (see [i.23], clause 4.2.1.1). The same could be said of other NWDAF analytics types as well (e.g., slice load level, network performance, etc.) Given that some Non-RT RIC generated analytics would be directly useful to 5GC network functions, rather than implementing such an analytic twice, assuming that such an analytic is implemented via an rApp in the Non-RT RIC, there should be a mechanism whereby such an analytic can be shared with the core.

### 4.23.3 Proposed solution
Several possible solutions can be envisioned, which are treated below. A "fundamental challenge" that each solution should address is where the mapping takes place of the analytic information content from the “generally useful” structure that the rApp publishes across R1 for multiple consumers to the very specific data structures required by 5G core. The various options explored differ not only on the answer to this fundamental challenge, but also on whether the AnLF functionality is replicated in the functional architecture (i.e., in both the Non-RT RIC function and the NWDAF function) or shared, in the mechanism for whether and how to update the NRF/UDM, etc. We will explore two options whereby the SMO/Non-RT RIC can perform the role of a 5GC NWDAF, without a separate intervening NWDAF function, and then we will explore two options whereby the SMO/Non-RT RIC interact with a separate intervening NWDAF function.

#### 4.23.3.1 SMO/Non-RT RIC direct to 5GC consumer with façade of an NWDAF
This option 1 approach follows the pattern defined in [i.24], clauses 6.1.1 and 6.1.2. In this approach, the SMO/Non-RT RIC exposes the analytic directly to the consuming 5GC NF, performing the role of and presenting the façade of an NWDAF relative to that network function. Thus, in this option the AnLF functionality is not duplicated but exists only in the Non-RT RIC. Regarding the "fundamental challenge", in this option 1 the SMO/Non-RT RIC is responsible for mapping the analytic information content from the "generally useful" data structures published across R1 into the specific data structures expected by [i.24]. The mechanism for how to do this mapping extends the established pattern defined in [i.29] for rApp registration of A1-EI types. Specifically, option 1 would require an rApp that intends to make its data also available to 5G core NFs to also "one-time" register its R1 data type as a [i.24] analytic Id. This subsequent registration would also include the information necessary to map the "generally useful" information content into the data structures expected by described generically in this document as the "NWDAF façade" of the SMO/Non-RT RIC. In this option the 5GC NF discovers the correct “NWDAF” instance of interest through the UDM (for UE-related analytics) and the NRF (for non-UE related analytics). Accordingly, the SMO/Non-RT RIC, in the role of an NWDAF: 1. Should register with the NRF for the capabilities that it supports (see [i.26], clause 5.2.7.1 and [i.25], clause 6.1.6.2.45). 2. Can optionally register with the UDM for the UEs that it is serving or collecting data for, and for the related analytics ID(s) ([i.24], clause 6.1C.2). Observations: 1. The process through which a new analytics type would be introduced would likely entail: a. One or more rApp being loaded onto the Non-RT RIC capable of generating the desired analytic content in the "generally useful" structures, communicating to the NWDAF façade how to subsequently render that content into the NWDAF structures (see [i.24], clauses 6.6 and following). b. The NWDAF façade of the SMO/Non-RT RIC registering that new analytics Id with the NRF and optionally UDM (per UE) as being available for consumption. c. A new feature being loaded on a 5GC NF type capable of utilizing a particular NWDAF analytics Id, and which uses the NRF and optionally UDM (per UE) to determine that the SMO/Non-RT RIC is the entity from which to consume that specific analytics Id (perhaps with further discrimination based on TAC or NF mapping; [i.11], clause 6.3.19). 2. The Non-RT RIC is within the SMO, where “M” is “management”. If the SMO/Non-RT RIC presents itself to the 5GC NFs as an NWDAF, it is taking the role of a network function. The implications of this will be explored in the Detailed Specification. 3. Similar to option 2, a DCCF/MFAF could be among the analytics consumer “5GC NFs”. Because of that, the real differentiator between option 1 and option 2 is in which entity, if any, registers new analytics Ids with the NRF and optionally UDM. 4. If there is a desire for 5GC NFs to also be able to access historical SMO/Non-RT RIC analytics, then the NWDAF façade would also need to support the optional Nnwdaf_DataManagement Subscribe/Notify services. 5. The NWDAF specification (see [i.24]) lists many other functionalities that an NWDAF can optionally support, such as supporting an external ADRF, providing training services to other 5GC NFs, aggregation and transfer of analytics, etc. Thus, other optional interfaces of the NWDAF (e.g., Nnwdaf_DataManagement, Nnwdaf_MLModelProvision and Nnwdaf_MLModelInfo) are not considered. Because the SMO/Non-RT RIC does not support such functionality at this time nor are they critical to the topic of sharing data between RAN and core, this assumes that the NWDAF façade to the 5GC would be that of an NWDAF instance that does not support this optional functionality. Benefits of this approach: 1. No duplication of AnLF functionality between the SMO/Non-RT RIC and a separate NWDAF, resulting in less cost and management complexity for a carrier/operator. 2. No changes to the 3GPP defined interfaces, and no new interfaces need to be defined. 3. This option addresses the "fundamental challenge" by following an established pattern used for delivery of rApp analytics to the Near-RT RIC via A1-EI. 4. No configuration changes needed (outside of SMO/Non-RT RIC) with each new analytics type being exposed to the 5GC NFs. Rather, the 5GC knows that the source of that analytic type is the SMO/Non-RT RIC through dynamic NRF updates. Negatives of this approach: While it is not truly a negative, it is worth pointing out that this option does require support for new interfaces that are unlike any functionality that is currently associated with the SMO/Non-RT RIC, specifically the interfaces for SMO/Non- RT RIC to interact with the 5GC NRF and UDM to register its analytics types. However, such functionality can be generically useful for support of other external data consumers. The approach taken by option 1 is shown in figure 4.23.3.1-1 below:

#### 4.23.3.2 SMO/Non-RT RIC to DCCF/MFAF with façade of an NWDAF
This option 2 approach follows the pattern defined in [i.24], clause 6.1.4.2. In this approach, the SMO/Non-RT RIC shares its analytics with a DCCF/MFAF, which in turn makes those analytics available to requesting 5GC NFs. Thus, in this option the AnLF functionality is not duplicated but exists only in the Non-RT RIC. Regarding the "fundamental challenge", this option 2 approach also gives the SMO/Non-RT RIC responsibility for mapping the analytic information content from the "generally useful" data structures published across R1 into the specific data structures expected by [i.24]. The mechanism for how to do this is that described in option 1, with the separate rApp data registration event for 5G core NF data sharing. Because in this option the SMO/Non-RT RIC performs the AnLF and data mapping function, the SMO/Non-RT RIC will present the façade of an NWDAF relative to the DCCF/MFAF, leveraging the [i.24] NWDAF services for data subscription and delivery. The DCCF/MFAF is responsible for receiving analytics requests from 5GC NFs, forwarding the corresponding request to the NWDAF façade of the SMO/Non-RT RIC, receiving from the SMO/Non-RT RIC the associated analytics information, and returning the same to the requesting 5GC NFs. On the surface this option 2 can appear similar, from an SMO/Non-RT RIC perspective, to option 1 in that, in both cases, the SMO/Non-RT RIC presents the façade of an NWDAF towards the 5G core, in this case a 5G core DCCF/MFAF. However, in this option 2 approach a simplification of the SMO/Non-RT RIC functionality is achieved by eliminating the ability of 5GC NFs to discover NWDAF instances via the NRF and UDM. Rather, in this option 2 approach, the 5GC NFs can only discover via the NRF the DCCF/MFAF instances, which they would do through standard means ([i.11], clause 6.3.19). Neither does the DCCF/MFAF discover NWDAF façade instances, but rather option 2 assumes that the DCCF/MFAF knows how to reach the various NWDAF façade instances through local configuration.
> NOTE: See [i.11], clause 6.3.13: “The NF consumers should utilize the NRF to discover NWDAF instance(s) unless
NWDAF information is available by other means, e.g., locally configured on NF consumers.” In this case, the DCCF/MFAF is the sole “NF consumer”. Observations: 1. The process through which a new analytics type would be introduced would likely entail: a. One or more rApp being loaded onto the Non-RT RIC capable of generating the desired analytic content in the "generally useful" structures, communicating to the NWDAF façade how to subsequently render that content into the NWDAF structures (see [i.24], clauses 6.6 and following). b. Configure the DCCF with a mapping from analytics Id to the source NWDAF instance. c. A new feature being loaded on a 5GC NF type capable of utilizing a particular NWDAF analytics Id, and which uses the NRF and optionally UDM (per UE) to determine that the SMO/Non-RT RIC is the entity from which to consume that specific analytics Id (perhaps with further discrimination based on TAC or NF mapping; [i.11], clause 6.3.19). 2. The Non-RT RIC is within the SMO, where “M” is “management”. If the SMO/Non-RT RIC presents itself to the 5GC NFs as an NWDAF, it is taking the role of a network function. The implications of this will be explored in the Detailed Specification. 3. If there is a desire for the DCCF/MFAF to also be able to access and share historical SMO/Non-RT RIC analytics, then the NWDAF façade would also need to support the optional Nnwdaf_DataManagement Subscribe/Notify services. 4. The NWDAF specification (see [i.24]) lists many other functionalities that an NWDAF can optionally support, such as supporting an external ADRF, providing training services to other 5GC NFs, aggregation and transfer of analytics, etc. Thus, other optional interfaces of the NWDAF (e.g., Nnwdaf_DataManagement, Nnwdaf_MLModelProvision and Nnwdaf_MLModelInfo) are not considered. Because the SMO/Non-RT RIC does not support such functionality at this time nor are they critical to the topic of sharing data between RAN and core, this assumes that the NWDAF façade to the 5GC would be that of an NWDAF instance that does not support this optional functionality. 5. Because in both option 2 and option 1 the SMO/Non-RT RIC assumes the façade of an NWDAF instance relative to the 5GC, option 2 can be viewed as an interim deployment step that can be seamlessly evolved to an option 1 approach. Benefits of this approach: 1. No duplication of AnLF functionality between the SMO/Non-RT RIC and a separate NWDAF, resulting in less cost and management complexity for a carrier/operator. 2. No changes to the 3GPP defined interfaces, and no new interfaces need to be defined. 3. This option addresses the "fundamental challenge" by following an established pattern used for delivery of rApp analytics to the Near-RT RIC via A1-EI. 4. Simplification, over option 1, of the functionality of the NWDAF façade of the SMO/Non-RT RIC, eliminating the NRF and UDM registration interfaces assumed in option 1. Negatives of this approach: 1. The practical cost of this simplification over that of option 1 is perhaps the elimination of some deployment options for SMO/Non-RT RIC instances that present an NWDAF façade, in order to avoid adding practical complexity to the DCCF/MFAF configuration. For example: a. In this option approach it is unlikely that a carrier would want to deploy many, many instances of SMO/Non-RT RIC, distinguished both by analytics type and by geographical area of service (e.g., TAC and/or NF mapping), because that would significantly increase the complexity of the DCCF/MFAF configuration for distinguishing between these instances. Rather, because the 5GC NF’s ability to discover a DCCF/MFAF instance would likely be limited to a TAC or NF mapping ([i.11], clause 6.3.19), perhaps a simple one-to-many mapping between DCCF/MFAF instance and NWDAF façade would be more manageable through DCCF/MFAF configuration, the granularity of this mapping also likely being at the TAC or NF level. b. In this option approach there is no update of the UDM to indicate when UE-level analytics are being collected, so there is no ability for the 5GC NFs to leverage the UDM to determine the source for UE- level analytics. (However, as per observation #5, option 2 does provide a seamless path to overcome this negative over time.) 2. Configuration changes need to be made in the DCCF/MFAF with each new analytic type being exposed to the 5GC NFs, so that the DCCF/MFAF knows that the source of that analytic is the SMO/Non-RT RIC. The approach of option 2 is shown in figure 4.23.3.2-1 below:

#### 4.23.3.3 SMO/Non-RT RIC to separate NWDAF with façade of OA&M
This option 3 approach follows the pattern defined in [i.24], clause 6.2.3.2. In this approach, the SMO/Non-RT RIC shares its analytics with a separate NWDAF, which in turn makes those analytics available to requesting 5GC NFs. Thus, in this option the AnLF functionality is duplicated in both the Non-RT RIC function and the NWDAF function. There are multiple sub-options regarding how to approach the "fundamental challenge". These are described in "observations" below. In this option 3 approach, the SMO/Non-RT RIC performs the role and presents the façade of an OAM system relative to the NWDAF (see [i.28]). In this option the separate NWDAF performs its normal functionality: receiving analytics requests from 5GC NFs, determining the source data that should be collected in order to fulfill that analytics request, using that source data to construct the analytics response, and forwarding the resultant analytics response to the requesting 5GC NF. Observations: 1. The OAM interface presented as a façade towards the NWDAF [i.28] follows the SA5 approach whereby content is specified via Network Resource Models (NRMs) which define certain standardized attributes (e.g., PLMN ID, S-NSSAI, etc.). There is also the provision for vendor-specific extensions which, of course, would not be standardized. In order for the separate NWDAF to understand the semantic content of the information being sent from the OAM façade, the SMO/Non-RT RIC will need to either map its analytics content into these standard NRM structures or map that content into the extensions. Approaches for addressing the "fundamental challenge" include: a. SMO/Non-RT RIC maps the "generally useful" data structures into the existing [i.28] standardized NRM attributes, with each rApp using data type registration to communicate to the OAM façade its own mapping into these standardized NRM attributes. However, given that the standard NRM attributes were defined by 3GPP independent of the NWDAF data structures, finding such a mapping is expected to be challenging at best, and hence is not considered a viable path forward. b. SMO/Non-RT RIC maps the "generally useful" data structures into a set of new [i.28] standardized NRM attributes, with each rApp using data type registration to communicate to the OAM façade its own mapping into these standardized NRM attributes. This would require O-RAN to negotiate with 3GPP changes to [i.28] to define the new NRMs, and changes to [i.24] for the NWDAF to know how to generically map these NRM structures into the structures expected by [i.24]. For a variation on this approach, see item “e” below. c. SMO/Non-RT RIC maps the "generally useful" data structures into a set of rApp-by-rApp defined [i.28] vendor extensions, with each rApp using data type registration to communicate to the OAM façade its own mapping into these one-off vendor extensions. With this approach, for each new analytic produced by an rApp, a negotiation would take place between the rApp vendor and the separate NWDAF vendor on how to encode its specific analytic information content into the extensions supported by [i.28]. This approach results in additional complexity which can stifle innovation and is thus not considered a viable path forward. d. SMO/Non-RT RIC maps the "generally useful" data structures into a set of O-RAN defined [i.28] vendor extensions, with each rApp using data type registration to communicate to the OAM façade its own mapping into this set of O-RAN defined extensions. This would require O-RAN to negotiate with 3GPP changes to [i.28] and to [i.24] to define a standard set of [i.28] data structures into which the SMO/Non-RT RIC can map "generally useful" data structures, and the [i.24] mapping required for the NWDAF to derive the [i.24] data structures. This would, in effect, be negotiating an entirely new interface between O-RAN and 3GPP, a significant effort. A more practical variation of this approach can be found in item “e” below. e. SMO/Non-RT RIC maps the "generally useful" data structures into the structures defined in [i.24], with each rApp using data type registration to communicate to the OAM façade its own mapping into this set of O-RAN defined extensions. The OAM façade would wrap those structures into the extensions supported by [i.28]. This would require modifications to [i.28] to define the standard method for wrapping these data structures, as well as a change to [i.24] such that an NWDAF would expect to find performing some limited NWDAF functionality in that it knows how to map its analytics output into 2. The analysis above related to the runtime exchange of instance data between the SMO/Non-RT RIC, however the NWDAF is also responsible for registering with the NRF the analytics types that it supports (see [i.26], clause 5.2.7.1 and [i.25], clause 6.1.6.2.45). It can also optionally register with the UDM its capability to produce an analytics ID for a specific UE. To do this, the separate NWDAF would need to discover the capabilities of the SMO/Non-RT RIC. Options include: a. The SMO/Non-RT RIC could present the façade of an NWDAF towards the separate NWDAF, that separate NWDAF acting as an aggregation NWDAF (see [i.24], clause 6.1A). However, this approach conflicts with the fundamental premise of this option: that SMO/Non-RT RIC presents an OAM façade to the separate NWDAF. In addition, from an SMO/Non-RT RIC perspective this approach would be no different than option 1 and so will not be further considered. b. A new interface being negotiated between O-RAN and 3GPP for automatically communicating to an NWDAF the capabilities of an OAM entity. This would be a significant effort. c. Similar to option 2, leveraging the capability of [i.11], clause 6.3.13, such that the separate NWDAF knows how to reach the various NWDAF façade instances through local configuration. This seems like the only viable path forward. 3. Given the above, the process through which a new analytics type would be introduced assuming the most viable paths forward as described above: a. One or more rApp being loaded onto the Non-RT RIC that are capable of generating the desired analytic content. b. Configure the separate NWDAF with a mapping from analytics Id to the source OAM instance so that it can register that analytics Id with the NRF (and optionally, UDM). c. A new feature being loaded on a 5GC NF type that requires access to a particular NWDAF analytics Id, and which uses the NRF and optionally UDM (per UE) to determine that the separate NWDAF entity is that from which to consume that specific analytics Id (perhaps with further discrimination based on TAC or NF mapping; [i.11], clause 6.3.19). Benefits of this approach (assuming the most viable path forward): 1. Separate NWDAF determines SMO/Non-RT RIC instance for its source analytics, avoiding the need for new interfaces for SMO/Non-RT RIC to interact with the 5GC NRF and UDM. (Of course, see negative below as to how the NWDAF would discover new analytics types supported in the SMO/Non-RT RIC so as to register them.) 2. This option addresses the "fundamental challenge" by following an established pattern used for delivery of rApp analytics to the Near-RT RIC via A1-EI. Negatives of this approach (assuming the most viable path forward): 1. Duplication of AnLF functionality in both the SMO/Non-RT RIC and the separate NWDAF, resulting in less cost and management complexity for a carrier/operator. 2. In addition, the NWDAF AnLF function as envisioned by 3GPP is capable of performing complex trending and AI/ML functionalities to process raw source data into the desired analytics output. In this option 3 approach, however, the NWDAF's role is only of adaptation and reformatting of the analytics from the SMO/Non-RT RIC for presentation to the 5GC NF. With this option, a service provider would be using its likely complex NWDAF function to perform what is essentially a data adaptation function. 3. As per observation #1e above, this option requires changes to two separate 3GPP interface specifications: [i.25] and [i.24]. Note that other alternatives were also explored in #1 above, however each of those alternatives also involved either changes to existing of defining entirely new 3GPP interfaces entailing even more effort, or else requiring per analytic custom coding in the NWDAF stifling innovation in the Non-RT RIC, both alternatives seeming less palatable than this documented negative. 4. Configuration changes need to be made in the separate NWDAF with each new analytic type being exposed to the 5GC NFs, so that the NWDAF knows that the source of that analytic is the SMO/Non-RT RIC. 5. The practical cost of the simplification taken in observation “2c” is perhaps the elimination of some deployment options for SMO/Non-RT RIC instances in order to avoid adding practical complexity to the DCCF/MFAF configuration. For example: a. In this option approach it is unlikely that a carrier would want to deploy many, many instances of SMO/Non-RT RIC, distinguished both by Analytics type and by geographical area of service (e.g., TAC and/or NF mapping), because that would significantly increase the complexity of the DCCF/MFAF configuration for distinguishing between these instances. Rather, because the 5GC NF’s ability to discover a DCCF/MFAF instance would likely be limited to a TAC or NF mapping ([i.11], clause 6.3.19), perhaps a simple one-to-many mapping between DCCF/MFAF instance and NWDAF façade would be more manageable through DCCF/MFAF configuration, the granularity of this mapping also likely being at the TAC or NF level. b. In this option approach there is no ability for the 5GC NFs to leverage the UDM to determine the source for UE-level analytics. In addition, unlike option 2, because the SMO/Non-RT RIC presents the façade of an OAM endpoint, there is no seamless path to overcome this negative. This approach is shown in figure 4.23.3.3-1 below:

#### 4.23.3.4 SMO/Non-RT RIC to separate NWDAF with façade of RAN NF
This option 4 approach also follows the pattern defined in [i.24], clause 6.2.3.2. In this approach, the SMO/Non-RT RIC shares its analytics with a separate NWDAF, which in turn makes those analytics available to requesting 5GC NFs. Thus, in this option the AnLF functionality is duplicated in both the Non-RT RIC function and the NWDAF function. There are multiple sub-options regarding how to approach the "fundamental challenge" (in fact the same that were presented in option 3). These are addressed below. In the option 4 approach, the SMO/Non-RT RIC performs the role and presents the façade of a RAN NF providing performance management OAM relative to the NWDAF ([i.27], clause 5.1.1). In this option the separate NWDAF performs its normal functionality: receiving analytics requests from 5GC NFs, determining the source data that should be collected in order to fulfill that analytics request, using that source data to construct the analytics response, and forwarding the resultant analytics response to the requesting 5GC NF. Observations: 1. Similar to option 3, the RAN NF interface presented as a façade towards the NWDAF [i.27] follows the SA5 approach whereby content is specified via Network Resource Models (NRMs) which define certain standardized attributes (e.g., PLMN ID, S-NSSAI, etc.). There is also the provision for vendor-specific extensions which, of course, would not be standardized. In order for the separate NWDAF to understand the semantic content of the information being sent from the RAN NF façade, either the SMO/Non-RT RIC will need to either map its analytics content into these standard NRM structures (see [i.24], clauses 6.2 and following), or map that content into vendor-specific extensions. The options and the viability assessment for addressing the "fundamental challenge" would be basically the same as that of option 3. 2. The options and viability assessment thereof for the separate NWDAF discovering the analytics capabilities of the SMO/Non-RT RIC would be basically the same as that of option 3. 3. The process through which a new analytics type would be introduced would be the same as that described in option 3. Benefits of this approach: 1. Separate NWDAF determines SMO/Non-RT RIC instance for its source analytics, avoiding the need for new interfaces for SMO/Non-RT RIC to interact with the 5GC NRF and UDM. (Of course, the NWDAF should support interfaces to the NRF and UDM to register new analytics types that are supported in the SMO/Non-RT RIC.) 2. This option follows the same basic rApp-to-framework pattern already established for delivery of rApp analytics to the Near-RT RIC via A1-EI. 3. The same interface to the NWDAF can be leveraged by both the Non-RT and Near-RT RICs. Negatives of this approach: 1. This approach shares the same negative as option 3 list item #1. 2. This approach shares the same negative as option 3 list item #2. 3. This approach shares the same negative as option 3 list item #3, substituting occurrences of reference [i.28] with reference [i.27] as appropriate. 4. This approach shares the same negative as option 3 list item #4. 5. This approach shares the same negative as option 3 list item #5. This approach is shown in figure 4.23.3.4-1 below:

#### 4.23.3.5 SMO/Non-RT RIC to external NWDAF with façade of 3GPP MDA
This option 5 is a variation of option 3 hence it follows the pattern defined in [i.24], clause 6.2.3.2 but leverages the 3GPP MDA specification in [i.41], instead of OAM as in option 3. Similar to option 3, the SMO/Non-RT RIC performs the role, and presents the façade of, a 3GPP management service towards the NWDAF except that in option 5 this is an MDA service (see [i.24] and [i.41]). Same as in option 3, the external NWDAF performs its normal functionality: receiving analytics requests from 5GC NFs, determining the source data that should be collected in order to fulfill that analytics request, requesting the analytics from the target MDA service source data to construct the analytics response, and forwarding the resultant analytics response to the requesting 5GC NF. Observations: 1. The main difference with option 3 is that option 5 uses 3GPP MDA façade instead of OAM: a. MDA service exposed to the NWDAF [i.28] follows the 3GPP SA5 approach whereby content is specified in the MDA specification [i.41]. There is also the provision for vendor-specific extensions which, of course, would not be standardized. As per [i.28], the NWDAF understands the 3GPP MDA semantic content [i.41], so the SMO/Non-RT RIC can reuse the existing 3GPP MDA analytics data types. In addition, O-RAN can define new RAN analytics data types as needed, as extensions to the 3GPP MDA data types. 2. Approach for addressing the "fundamental challenge" include: a. SMO/Non-RT RIC can reuse the existing [i.41] standardized MDA data types, with each rApp using data type registration to communicate to the MDA façade its own mapping into these standardized 3GPP MDA attributes. There are two possible alternatives: i. O-RAN defines its own RAN analytics data types as per the vendor-extension mechanism enabled in 3GPP MDA, where O-RAN defines its extensions. The NWDAF [i.24] will need to understand the O-RAN standardized extensions; or ii. O-RAN to request 3GPP SA5 to define a dedicated O-RAN data type extension in [i.41], to enable O-RAN to define its contents/structure. b. SMO/Non-RT RIC maps the data structures into a set of O-RAN defined vendor extensions [i.28], RAN defined RAN analytics extensions. c. In case of rApps which do not produce RAN analytics types in a standardized format (3GPP MDA, O- RAN), then the rApps are expected to provide their own mappings into the standardized set of RAN analytics data types. The rApps use data type registration with DME to communicate this mapping so that they can be discoverable for consumption. The MDA façade would wrap those structures into the extensions supported by [i.24], [i.41]], or specified in O-RAN. 3. Same as for option 3 - the NWDAF is responsible for registering with the NRF the analytics types that it supports, to enable discovery by 5GC NFs (see [i.26], clause 5.2.7.1 and [i.25], clause 6.1.6.2.45.). It can also optionally register with the UDM its capability to produce an analytics ID for a specific UE. To do this, the external NWDAF would need to discover the RAN analytics capabilities of the MDA service produced by the SMO/Non-RT RIC. Options include: a. Same as in option 3, leveraging the capability of [i.11], clause 6.3.13, such that the external NWDAF knows how to reach the various MDA façade instances through local configuration. b. NWDAF can discover the RAN analytics service/s of the SMO/Non-RT RIC via SME service discovery mechanisms, and it can discover the supported RAN analytics data types via DME. That implies that NWDAF has the ability to consume the SME and DME services, and this is an impact to [i.24]. 4. Given the above, the process through which a new analytics type would be introduced assuming the most viable paths forward as described above: a. One or more rApp being loaded onto the Non-RT RIC that are capable of generating the desired RAN analytic content. b. Configure the external NWDAF with a mapping from analytics Id to the source MDA instance so that it can register that analytics Id with the NRF (and optionally, UDM) on behalf of the SMO/Non-RT RIC. c. A new feature being loaded on a 5GC NF type that requires access to a particular NWDAF analytics Id, and which uses the NRF and optionally UDM (per UE) to determine that the external NWDAF entity is that from which to consume that specific Analytics Id (perhaps with further discrimination based on TAC or NF mapping; [i.11], clause 6.3.19). Benefits of this approach (assuming the most viable path forward): 1. External NWDAF determines SMO/Non-RT RIC instance for its source analytics using the NWDAF consumption of MDA services as described in [i.24], avoiding the need for new interfaces for SMO/Non-RT RIC to interact with the 5GC NRF and UDM. 2. It offers a single/common solution to provide both the RAN analytics data, such as the UE location predictions described in this use case, as well as RAN management data analytics. 3. New RAN analytics can be flexibly added in Non-RT RIC as needed, via e.g., rApps. 4. Dynamic service and data discovery by NWDAF: the MDA service and the data types produced by the SMO/Non-RT RIC can be discovered using the service discovery via SME, and respectively the data discovery via DME. Negatives of this approach (assuming the most viable path forward): 1. If a dynamic discovery of the MDA service and RAN analytics types supported by the SMO/Non-RT RIC is desired, then NWDAF needs to be capable to consume the SME and DME services. This is an impact to [i.24]. 2. If the static method is used, then configuration changes need to be made in the external NWDAF with each new analytic type being exposed to the 5GC NFs, so that the NWDAF knows that the MDA source of that analytic is the SMO/Non-RT RIC.
> NOTE: As the static/configuration approach is the one provided in 3GPP [i.24], this is a common negative in most options,
as in all cases there is some level of configuration needed in NWDAF to recognize different sources of data.

### 4.23.4 Benefits of O-RAN architecture
The Non-RT RIC will be capable of generating analytics that have general usefulness to the core as well. Thus, it is beneficial to overall efficiency that such analytics produced by the Non-RT RIC can be shared with the core, rather than requiring a separate NWDAF to also generate them. Even more so, there are some analytics that the RAN is in a better position to generate than the core, such as UE mobility predictions. This is true irrespective of which specific solution approach is used to enable such sharing.

## 4.24 Industrial vision SLA assurance

### 4.24.1 Background information
Industrial vision is an image recognition technology used for automatic inspection, work piece processing and assembly automation, as well as the monitoring and control of production process by using machines to replace human eyes for various measurements and judgments. The main feature of industrial vision system is that it needs to collect the images of the products tested or processed in the area with dense production lines, and then transmit them to the vision server for detection and feedback the results.

### 4.24.2 Motivation
5G pre-scheduling technology can greatly reduce the transmission delay and improve the transmission reliability. However, the traditional static pre-scheduling mechanism does not fully consider the actual industrial production line uplink transmission characteristics. Regardless of whether the terminal has uplink transmission data, it always allocates air interface resources according to the existing configuration, resulting in a large waste of resources, and a significant decline in the actual bearable traffic of the cell, which is difficult to deploy commercially. Therefore, the commercial pre-scheduling mechanism generally adopts a dynamic pre-scheduling fashion, in which scheduling start time can be dynamically adjusted according to the actual business characteristics. In order to realize dynamic pre-scheduling, the network side needs to perceive the arrival of uplink transmission data on the terminal side, prepare uplink air interface resources for this terminal in advance, and configure the pre-scheduling adaptively. O-RAN based architecture will enable such adaptive pre-scheduling parameters configuration to be implemented and help to realize the high efficiency of industrial vision.

### 4.24.3 Proposed solution
Industrial vision use case mainly involves the Non-RT RIC, Near-RT RIC, E2 nodes in the O-RAN architecture, and industrial vision server (MES), industrial camera in the production system. The data transmission to Non-RT RIC approach includes, but not limited to, below method: non-RAN data about production line/camera information and data transmission information is transmitted to Non-RT RIC as enrichment information [i.30], [i.31].
> NOTE: The enrichment enformation mentioned above can be also obtained from the 5G core network.
With enrichment information from industry server application server, base station can sync the camera data uplink resource allocation with work piece arrival time through dynamic pre-scheduling, as shown in figure 4.24.3-1. In order to realize the adaptive configuration of pre-scheduling process, the Near-RT RIC needs to adaptively calculate three pre-scheduling parameters matching with the industrial vision periodical business characteristics, including pre- scheduling data size, pre-scheduling period and pre-scheduling start time, so as to configure the E2 node via E2 control/policy service with those pre-scheduling parameters. The dynamic pre-scheduling workflow is shown in figure 4.24.3-2. At the start-up stage of production line, pre-scheduling data size and pre-scheduling period are calculated by the Near-RT RIC based on production line speed and configured industrial camera attributes, such as image color, pixel, etc. These production line data can be imported as enrichment information to the Non-RT RIC, and then delivered to the Near-RT RIC. Then, the Near-RT RIC decides an initial pre- scheduling start time, which can be absolute time or relative time depending on the Near-RT RIC’s capability to synchronize time with E2 nodes. The pre-scheduling start time is the time at which the first pre-scheduling of the whole iterative process should start. The Near-RT RIC then configures the E2 node via E2 control/policy service with pre-scheduling data size, pre-scheduling period and pre-scheduling start time parameters. Note that the configured parameters mentioned above only serve as scheduling recommendations to E2 nodes. Actual PRB scheduling depends on many other factors not captured by this use case. E2 node might for instance supersede Near-RT RIC’s recommendation in case high priority delay critical data needs to be scheduled. After initial configuration, the Near-RT RIC adaptively adjusts the pre-scheduling start time based on the service data transmission information, including pre-scheduling time-domain resource utilization and image data transmission delay related enrichment information. The pre-scheduling time-domain resource utilization is to be provided by E2 node, but it is currently not defined in the E2 interface specification, and it can be defined as the ratio of the time-domain resource of the data to be scheduled to the total pre-scheduled time-domain resource. The image data transmission delay related enrichment information is provided to the Non-RT RIC by industrial vision server (MES) which hosts industrial vision application, and is then delivered to the Near-RT RIC. The initial pre-scheduling starting time can be set to T=0, and then iteratively adjusted based on the service data transmission information, as shown in figure 4.24.3-3, until the service data transmission information converges to a reasonable range.

### 4.24.4 Benefits of O-RAN architecture
Near-RT RIC based recommendation of pre-scheduling configuration towards the E2 node might reduce the latency and improve the timing accuracy of image data transmission and might reduce scheduling related uplink signal overhead. The proposed solution to support industrial vision business assurance requires features provided by O-RAN architecture to satisfy the requirements via interoperable E2 interfaces and including input from external systems and external applications.

## 4.25 Void

## 4.26 Interference detection, prediction and optimization

### 4.26.1 Background information
LTE and 5G network are deployed based on co-frequency networking due to limited radio resources, which leads to co- frequency interference becoming the bottleneck of network performance. Heterogeneous networks as well as ultra-dense networks make inter-cell interference more complex. As a result, how to detect and/or predict, and then optimize interference is of great importance for wireless networks. Current research mainly focuses on a class of interference optimization solutions called Inter-Cell Interference Coordination (ICIC), which iclude static ICIC and dynamic ICIC, assuming that inter-cell interference is available via detection and/or prediction. The principle of ICIC is to restrict the use of radio resources in individual cells in an inter-cell coordination manner, including restricting which time-frequency resources are available, or limiting their transmitting power on certain time-frequency resources. The principle of ICIC is to divide all cells in the network in several categories, then divides the UE to Cell Edge User (CEU) as well as Cell Center User (CCU), and schedule CEU to edge radio resources. Such ICIC solutions suffer from the following limitations:
- The radio resources are allocated statically or in non-real time, and do not support dynamic adjustment, which
causes low radio resource utilization.
- ICIC depends on specific ideal cell networking structure, and the performance of interference optimization
algorithm is poor for complex networking structure.
- The radio resource allocation is based on cell level, and do not support UE level or UE group level.
- The measurement data is used for post-interference analysis and optimization, in a non-real-time manner.
Besides, current research may mainly focus on interference optimization, based on the assumption that inter-cell interference is available via detection and/or prediction. In fact, interference detection and prediction is not less important than interference optimization. On the one hand, interference detection and/or prediction with high accuracy contributes to accurate and efficient interference optimization. On the other hand, interference detection and/or prediction can be utilized to optimize other transmission configurations, e.g., Modulation and Coding Scheme (MCS), not limited to radio resources allocation. In addition to LTE and 5G interference, there are other non-3GPP types of interference experienced in a 5G network including internal RF interference, such as passive intermodulation, and external RF interference, such as ducting, that need to be detected and optimized. To support effective interference optimization, there is a need to identify the source of the interference in terms of interference type and geographical location. Thanks to the open interface and intelligent functionalities provided by the O-RAN architecture, multi-cell-based collaborative real-time interference detection, prediction and interference optimization schemes can be realized. Multi- dimensional data, e.g., network level measurement data, can be acquired and used for interference detection, interference prediction, interference relationships construction, and interference optimization in real time. Interference relationship construction can further take QoS related metrics into analysis to facilitate UE service assurance through interference management. Based on the A1 policy as well as interference relationships, Near-RT RIC ensures optimal radio resource allocation for UE or UE group or RAN slice through E2 interface towards RAN for interference optimization. In addition, based on the history interference detection, Near-RT RIC can predict interference for future data transmissions and thus facilitates MCS optimization to adapt to fluctuating interference.

### 4.26.2 Motivation
The main objective is to ensure interference optimization to be supported within the O-RAN architecture and its open interfaces in a way that allows UE or UE group or RAN slice or cell level modification of RAN behavior, features, scheduling, resource allocation procedures and other configuration based on user QoS requirements or other multi- dimensional data. This includes: 1. Interference detection. Near-RT RIC helps UE(s) to achieve UE-level interference detection by optimally configuring the reference signal resource allocation and information transmission strategy for the serving cell and its intra-frequency neighboring cells. Near RT RIC helps UL interference detection, classification and locating by leveraging the measurements of the interference levels and interference patterns at PRBs and mMIMO beams. Based on the A1 policy (interference detection related policy) developed by the Non-RT RIC, Near-RT RIC generates and sends the E2 control or policy, such as allocated resource(s) of the reference signal, information transmission strategy to indicate UE for channel measurement, channel estimation and interference measurement as well as PRBs and mMIMO beams to be monitored. Interference detection, classification and locating results can be used as a trigger condition for interference optimization or exposed to other xApps. 2. Interference relationships construction. Interference optimization is assisted by interference relationships, e.g., interference graph, which are used to describe the potential interference relationships between UEs or UE groups or RAN slices or PRBs or mMIMO beams in a multi-cell coverage area. Interference relationships are constructed by Near-RT RIC. Multi-dimensional data, e.g., QoS related metrics from SMO and network level measurement reported by RAN through E2 interface can be used for Near-RT RIC to construct interference relationships. 3. Interference optimization. Near-RT RIC achieves interference optimization by optimally allocating radio resources to UEs or UE groups or RAN slices or cells or PRBs or mMIMO beams based on the interference relationship between UEs or UE groups or RAN slices or cells or PRBs or mMIMO beams as described in the interference relationship. Near-RT RIC receives the interference optimization related policy through A1 interface and the measurement data through E2 interface, and then the Near-RT RIC formulates an interference optimization policy for the serving cell and its intra-frequency neighboring cells based on the interference relationship, including radio resource allocation. 4. Above interference optimization flow can be locally applied even in Non-RT RIC by closed loop control via O1 interface for long-term traffic trends. The optimization by Near-RT RIC is fast loop optimization, while the optimization by Non-RT RIC is slow loop optimization. Appropriate approaches can be selected depending on traffic trends or use cases. 5. Interference prediction. In many cases, there is a time delay between the measurement and use of the channel, so that in time the channel information obtained at the moment of the reference signal measurement is accurate, and at the moment of use the channel information is outdated. Taking uplink transmission as an example, the transmission configuration (e.g., RB allocation and MCS) for PUSCH is indicated in the Downlink Control Information (DCI), which is sent by gNB ahead of K2 slots before PUSCH transmission. The transmission configuration is determined by gNB, based on the latest estimated channel quality, e.g., SINR, via channel measurement. Due to the fluctuation of wireless links, the channel quality may have changed dramatically from the moment of channel measurement to the moment of PUSCH transmission, leading to performance degradation. In this way, predicting future interference in data transmission for uplink transmission configuration optimization, such as MCS optimization, maximises the transmission efficiency of the wireless link while ensuring reliability.

### 4.26.3 Proposed solution

#### 4.26.3.1 Fast loop optimization
The concept of interference detection and optimization use case for fast loop control is given in figure 4.26.3.1-1. The interference detection and optimization application includes interference detection, classification and locating, interference relationships construction, as well as interference optimization, which are deployed in Near-RT RIC. In the process of implementing interference detection and optimization, Non-RT RIC generates interference detection and optimization-related policy and sends the policy to Near-RT RIC via A1 interface. Interference detection and optimization- related policy includes reference signal type, measurement report configuration, neighborhood list of serving cell, interference detection execution period, threshold for performing interference optimization, etc. The Near-RT RIC receives interference detection and optimization policies from the Non-RT RIC and obtains the necessary interference-related measurements from the network-level measurement reports via the E2 interface for interference relationshipsgraph construction, e.g., interference graph, and interference optimization-related E2 control or policy generation. The Near-RT RIC sends control or policies via the E2 interface to the RAN for interference optimization, and also sends Non-RT RIC with interference optimization performance reports for evaluation and optimization. One of the examples in resource allocation control is that Near-RT RIC separates resources between aggressor and victim cells for per-slice interference (as specified in [i.42], clause 9.3.16). Other examples of resource allocation control for cell resources include Tx power, PRB blanking, carrier aggregation, and beam management including beam forming and beam muting. The base station supports the reporting of network status and UE measurement data based on the policies developed by Near-RT RIC and sends them to Near-RT RIC via E2 interface with the required granularity. At the same time, the base station supports the execution of interference optimization policies based on E2 messages to achieve, e.g., resource allocation for the UE (or UE group or RAN slice). UEs support network interference detection based on the reference signal configuration and report the result to RAN. RAN supports uplink interference detection, classification and locating based on the interference levels and interference patterns of PRBs as well as mMIMO beams/interference.

##### 4.26.3.1.1 Interference detection
The Near-RT RIC generates an interference detection policy (E2 policy) based on the interference detection related policy (A1 policy) sent by the Non-RT RIC. The interference detection policy includes: 1) allocated resource(s) of the reference signal for the gNB(s); 2) information transmission strategy configured for the intra-frequency cells adjacent to the cells corresponding to the gNB(s); 3) detection profile for interference levels and interference patterns of PRBs where detection profile contains the criteria for engaging the E2 service; 4) detection profile for mMIMO beams/interference where detection profile contains the criteria for engaging the E2 service. Based on the reference signal resource configuration and information transmission strategy configuration for the serving cell and intra-frequency neighboring cells, the UE can perform real-time interference detection. Based on detection profile for interference levels and interference patterns of PRBs as well as detection profile for mMIMO beams/interference, RAN can perform near-RT interference detection, classification and locating.

##### 4.26.3.1.2 Interference relationships construction
Near-RT RIC constructs interference relationships, e.g., interference graph, between UEs and UE groups and RAN slice based on the received QoS related metrics from SMO and network level measurement from RAN. Near-RT RIC uses interference relationshipsgraph for interference optimization. Near-RT RIC constructs interference relationships based on the scheduled resources of PRBs of the serving cell and its intra-frequency neighboring cells as well as parameters of mMIMO beams.

##### 4.26.3.1.3 Interference optimization
When the interference detection result meets the interference optimization conditions (e.g., the interference value detected by UE is greater than the interference optimization threshold, the interference level and interference pattern of PRBs meet criteria in the detection profile or the mMIMO beams/interference meet the criteria in the detection profile), the interference optimization formulates an interference optimization policy based on the latest interference relationships and selects appropriate time and frequency domain for radio resources for DL or UL transmission in the service cell and its intra-frequency neighboring cells in order to achieve multi-cell radio resource coordination or active interference avoidance, and thus achieve interference optimization.

#### 4.26.3.2 Slow loop optimization
The concept of interference detection and optimization use case for slow loop control is given in figure 4.26.3.2-1. The interference detection and optimization application includes interference detection, interference relationships construction, and interference optimization, which are deployed in Non-RT RIC. In the process of implementing interference detection and optimization, Non-RT RIC generates interference detection and optimization-related policy and sends control based on the policy to E2 nodes via O1 interface. The control information includes appropriate time and frequency domain resources in the service cell and its intra-frequency neighboring cells. The base station supports the reporting of network status based on the policies developed by control information from Non-RT RIC and sends them to Non-RT RIC via O1 interface with the required granularity. At the same time, the base station supports the execution of interference optimization policies based on the control information to achieve resource allocation for the UE (or UE group or RAN slice). UEs support network interference detection based on the reference signal configuration and report the result to RAN.

##### 4.26.3.2.1 Interference detection and optimization
When the interference detection result meets the interference optimization conditions (the interference value detected by UE is greater than the interference optimization threshold), the interference optimization formulates an interference optimization policy based on the latest interference relationships and selects appropriate time and frequency domain resources in the service cell and its intra-frequency neighboring cells in order to achieve multi-cell radio resource coordination or active interference avoidance, and thus achieve interference optimization.

#### 4.26.3.3 Interference prediction for MCS optimization
The concept of the interference prediction for MCS optimization is given in figure 4.26.3.3-1. U U E E I n M S e t e r f e u lti-c e

# T R I C P l a t f o r m

# E 2 n o d e s
t r a a t i tra t i o o n ffic n r A tre n p d p s U U E E In the process of implementing interference prediction for MCS optimization, Non-RT RIC generates interference prediction related policy and sends the policy to Near-RT RIC via A1 interface. Interference prediction for MCS optimization related policy includes neighborhood list of serving cell, prediction granularities and prediction steps, etc. The Near-RT RIC receives interference prediction for MCS optimization policies from the Non-RT RIC and obtains the necessary data required for interference prediction from the reports via the E2 interface for interference prediction related E2 control or policy generation. Assuming the AI/ML model training using the training data set is on Non-RT RIC or on Near-RT RIC, the trained AI/ML model will be deployed in the Near-RT RIC used for the AI/ML model inference. The Near-RT RIC sends control or policies with the predicted uplink interference to the E2 node via the E2 interface for MCS optimization, and also sends interference prediction-based MCS optimization performance to Non-RT RIC for evaluation and optimization. The E2 nodes support the reporting of interference prediction related data based on the subscriptions from Near-RT RIC, and send them to Near-RT RIC via E2 interface with the required granularity. At the same time, the E2 node supports the execution of MCS optimization based on E2 control or policy from Near-RT RIC.

##### 4.26.3.3.1 Interference prediction
Prediction interference for future data transmission in advance, is based on history interference and relevant features from neighboring cells. Different prediction granularities are available, e.g., wideband, RB group, and RB for frequency domain, and TTI, frame for time domain.

##### 4.26.3.3.2 MCS optimization
Adjust MCS based on the predicted interference for future data transmission. The method of adjusting the MCS could be realized by replacing the outdated interference with the predicted interference when estimate the channel quality (e.g., SINR), or adjusting the target BLER\ACK adjustment step\initial MCS using the predicted interference value, to maximize the transmission efficiency while ensuring the reliability.

### 4.26.4 Benefits of O-RAN architecture
The proposed solution to support a real-time interference detection, prediction and optimization for co-frequency networking. It requires features provided by O-RAN architecture to orchestrate these requirements via interoperable O1 or A1/E2 interfaces. Retrieving measurement metrics in near-real-time are offered by the O-RAN architecture for interference detection, interference prediction, interference relationships construction, and interference optimization.

## 4.27 Communication and computing integrated networks

### 4.27.1 Background information
With the development of 5G and future networks, the integration of communication and computing has become a critical trend in network architecture. Traditional communication networks have focused primarily on data transmission and connectivity, while modern network applications increasingly require substantial computational resources. Examples of these applications include Artificial Intelligence (AI), Augmented Reality (AR), Virtual Reality (VR), autonomous driving, and Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT). These applications not only require high-speed, low-latency communication but also significant computing capabilities for real-time data processing and inference. The past decades witnessed the convergence of communication and computing trends in mobile network. Great efforts were made and good momentum were achieved. C-RAN featured by centralization, cooperative, clean and cloud were first proposed in 2009, which depicts the vision of software based virtualized RAN [i.1]. The concept of Network Function Virtualization (NFV) was initiated from 2012. It introduced the Information Technology (IT) to enable the network transformation from the traditional physical hardware network into a new software based virtualized network [i.44]. This further steers up the pace for the convergence of communication and computing in RAN. Multiple-access Edge Computing (MEC), which enables compute-intensive applications for mobile devices and access to cloud computing service at the edge of communication networks, had attracted great attention [i.45]. The virtualized/cloudification RAN infrastructure can server as perfect edge computing platform. Thanks to the well-developed IT tools/frameworks, such as the containers, kubernets, the general-purpose hardware infrastructure could be easily and dynamically shared by the RAN functionality and the edge applications, providing the converged capabilities of mobile communication and computing. Edge computing was also incorporated into 5G system in 3GPP since Release 15. However, the communication and computing services offered by the existing design, such as NFV and MEC, were designed separately and developed independently. To fulfill the gap, the coordination of computing and networking is proposed in the context of IMT-2020 and beyond, and provides network enhancements based on the functional architecture of IMT-2020, to achieve the computing and network joint optimization based on the awareness, control and management over computing resources [i.46], [i.47]. Besides the above, IETF initiated a new working group on computing aware traffic steering to study how the network edge can steer traffic between clients of a service and sites offering the services, considering the integrated network and compute resource status [i.48].

### 4.27.2 Motivation
The evolution of mobile networks toward deep integration of communication and computing is essential to support emerging applications like XR, real-time industrial control, and V2X. These services require tight coordination between computational processing and radio transmission. In this context, the timeliness of computational results directly depends on communication reliability, while radio resource availability is dynamically constrained by computing load variations. Current O-RAN architectures exhibit two fundamental limitations that prevent optimal joint optimization of system efficiency and service quality. On the one hand, the lack of unified modeling and orchestration for communication and computing resources hinders the system's ability to coordinate decisions across domains. Existing architectures maintain separate management planes for communication and computing resources, thereby preventing global optimization across domains. First, service degradation becomes unavoidable when radio-centric optimization directs traffic towards nodes with inadequate compute resources. For instance, access-related decisions such as handover or slice association may guide services toward cells with favorable radio conditions yet severely overloaded compute nodes. In scenarios such as frame-based XR rendering, this can lead to rendering latency exceeding the acceptable perceptual threshold, despite strong signal quality. Moreover, idle computing capacity within the RAN, which is subject to spatial and temporal tidal effects in mobile traffic, remains underutilized. Without a mechanism for real-time compute resource sharing, unused capacity cannot be reallocated to support adjacent AI inference or industrial tasks, resulting in low infrastructure return on investment. On the other hand, the lack of standardized mechanisms for exposing computing resource status limits the ability of external entities to coordinate services based on comprehensive system information. Although O-RAN defines interfaces for managing communication functions, it does not establish mechanisms for external entities (such as edge computing orchestrators or third-party applications) to discover and utilize RAN computing capabilities. The decision-making under incomplete information would impair the effectiveness of higher-level orchestration. For example, in distributed AI inference or collaborative V2X control, external platforms may need to schedule or offload tasks based on the network and compute state. In the absence of explicit exposure mechanisms, such platforms must rely on indirect estimation or static assumptions. Consequently, edge computing platforms cannot effectively offload computational tasks to nodes, leading to degraded service performance. The objective of this use case is to extend the O-RAN architecture to facilitate both internal joint optimization of communication and computing resources, as well as standardized exposure of computing capabilities to external systems. The O-RAN ALLIANCE focuses on promoting the openness and intelligence of RAN, and its architecture provides a solid foundation for this integration. O-RAN's cloud-based architecture (O-Cloud) supports the virtualization of multiple network functions, including RAN functions and edge computing applications. Additionally, O-RAN's intelligent capabilities—enabled by the Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC—allow for the dynamic optimization and management of both communication and computing resources. This flexibility enables O-RAN to meet the requirements of various application scenarios and network conditions, making it an ideal platform for realizing the CCIN vision.

### 4.27.3 Proposed solution
The CCIN use cases are divided into several sub-use cases to analysis requirements for different scenarios.

#### 4.27.3.1 Sub-use case 1: Multi aspect handover optimization
In scenarios where UE needs to handover between cloud-based RAN nodes while running applications with high computing and low latency requirements, the solution involves storing the compute capabilities of cloud-based RAN nodes such as O-CU and using this information in UE handover decisions. It leverages rApp to retrieve data from different cloud-based RAN nodes and derive the proximal computing capability and availability information. rApp then creates O1/A1-based configurations for multi-aspect handover optimization at Near-RT RIC instances, which use E2 control or E2 policies to ensure the UE handover to the optimal target cloud-based node.

#### 4.27.3.2 Sub-use case 2: RAN edge computing resource information exposure
When external entities such as orchestrators or application servers need to access unused computing resources in the O- Cloud infrastructure, the solution proposes that SMO collects and analyzes computing-related resources from O-Cloud and provides a radio edge computing resource information service to service consumers such as orchestrators or application servers. It involves SMO requesting or subscribing to measurement data from O-Cloud and sending the radio computing information for managed O-Cloud related computing resources to the service consumer. This enables effective exposure of radio edge computing resource information to service consumers.

#### 4.27.3.3 Sub-use case 3: O-RAN and mobile devices collaborative AI/ML inference
For scenarios where mobile devices need to offload AI/ML inference tasks to the network due to limited computing resources, O-RAN can provide edge computing capabilities and communication assurance for collaborative AI inference scenarios. SMO could translate external communication and computing requests into O-RAN internal operations, orchestrating communication and computing resources to fulfill service requirements. Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC enable intelligent service assurance and network performance improvement, jointly optimizing communication and computing resources to ensure end-to-end performance. O-RAN can also provide RAN information including communication and computing information to network-side AI/ML endpoints, helping optimize AI/ML model split and exit decisions. inspection, in the production line scenario. To go a step further, in cases where there is a need for dynamic management of collaborative AI/ML inference tasks between mobile devices and the network, the solution focuses on the life-cycle management of collaborative AI/ML inference tasks by SMO. CCIN consumers provide SMO with a set of AI/ML models and performance requirements. Non-RT RIC generates AI/ML model deployment strategies based on current communication and computational resources. SMO deploys the selected AI/ML model on O-Cloud, while consumers deploy the corresponding model on mobile devices. Near-RT RIC monitors the AI/ML collaborative computing task and generates adjustment strategies based on current communication and computing status, updating the AI/ML model on mobile devices. mobile device and O-Cloud.

#### 4.27.3.4 Sub-use case 4: XR rendering collaboration
In scenarios where XR devices require assistance from other nodes for rendering and computing tasks due to strict requirements on user equipment power consumption, performance, and heat dissipation, the solution involves application awareness where external consumers collect XR service requirements and application status. SMO or Y1 interface exposes communication and computing capabilities within RAN to external consumers. External consumers analyze the XR service requirements and RAN capabilities to determine service requests. SMO then optimizes and makes decisions, potentially utilizing AI/ML models to determine resource demand and policy. Execution includes deploying or scaling cloud resources of E2 nodes via O2 interface, reconfiguring E2 nodes via O1 interface, creating A1 policies, and deploying or scaling cloud resources of XR edge applications on the O-Cloud platform.

#### 4.27.3.5 Sub-use case 5: Joint communication and computing optimization for V2X
communications In V2X communication scenarios, especially at intersections where large amounts of data need to be processed with low latency, O-RAN can provide edge computing capabilities and communication assurance for computing in V2X. The vacant O-Cloud resources and collaboration between Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC facilitate on-demand resource allocation adjustments and joint optimization of communication and computing resource scheduling to ensure end-to-end performance. as the computing entity in O-RAN.

#### 4.27.3.6 Sub-use case 6: Exposure of performance information to assist computing resource
scheduling In scenarios where the performance of a VNF/App deployed on an O-Cloud node does not meet requirements, the solution involves SMO collecting the performance information of VNF/Apps deployed on O-Cloud nodes through the O1 or O2 interface. It monitors the performance of these tasks and makes decisions to redeploy them based on this information. If the current node's performance does not meet the requirements of the VNF/App, the orchestrator can request SMO to redeploy the VNF/App to another node with better performance. This ensures that the computing task is executed on a node that can meet its performance requirements, optimizing resource utilization and task performance. When there is a need to adjust the scale of a computing task based on performance demands, the solution focuses on scaling the task up or down. The orchestrator subscribes to VNF/App performance information from SMO. When the performance information indicates a need for scaling (either scale out or scale in), the orchestrator triggers the corresponding action. SMO then scales the VNF/App via the O2 interface and notifies the orchestrator of the completion. This allows for dynamic adjustment of computing resources to meet the current demands, improving resource efficiency and task execution.

### 4.27.4 Benefits of O-RAN architecture
O-RAN architecture offers several significant advantages for the realization of CCIN. First, its open interfaces enable seamless integration and interoperability between communication and computing resource management systems. Furthermore, the AI-driven optimization capabilities of the Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC allow for data-driven decision- making and real-time adjustments to resource allocation, ensuring that both communication and computing resources are utilized effectively to meet application demands. Additionally, O-RAN’s O-Cloud platform extends the RAN’s capabilities, transforming it into an edge computing infrastructure. This enables localized data processing, reducing transmission latency and enhancing the responsiveness of time-sensitive applications, such as XR, autonomous driving, and AI inference, ultimately improving the overall performance and user experience.


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG1.TS.OAD-R004-v15.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG1.TS.OAD-R004-v15.00 O-RAN Work Group 1 (Use Cases and Overall Architecture)   O-RAN Architecture Description"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms

For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1] and the following apply:

E2 Node: A logical node terminating E2 interface.

Managed Element: The definition of a Managed Element (ME) is given in 3GPP TS 28.622 [2], clause 4.3.3.

Managed Function: The definition of a Managed Function (MF) is given in 3GPP TS 28.622 [2], clause 4.3.4.

Near-Real-Time RAN Intelligent Controller: An O-RAN Network Function (NF) comprised of the Near-RT RIC platform and Near-RT RIC Applications (xApps).

Near-RT RIC APIs: A set of service-based interfaces that can be produced and consumed by the Near-RT RIC Platform and xApps.

NOTE: Please refer to Near-RT RIC Architecture [26] for more information.

Near-RT RIC platform: Platform supporting A1, E2, Y1 and O1 interfaces and providing a set of services via Near-RT RIC APIs needed for xApp functionality.

Non-Real-Time RAN Intelligent Controller: A functionality within Service Management and Orchestration (SMO) comprised of the Non-RT RIC Framework and the Non-RT RIC Applications (rApps) that manages the content carried across the A1 interface.

NOTE: Please refer to Non-RT RIC: Architecture [27] for more information.

Non-RT RIC Framework: A functionality within the Non-RT RIC that logically terminates the A1 interface and provides support for rApps, including the R1 services through the R1 interface.

NMS: A Network Management System for the O-RU as specified in Open FH M-Plane [24] to support legacy Open Fronthaul M-Plane deployments (prior to version 5 of Open FH M-Plane [24]).

O-Cloud: Cloud platform that provides O-RAN standardized interfaces, hosting O-RAN defined software components.

NOTE: Please refer to Cloud Architecture and Deployment Scenarios for O-RAN Virtualized RAN [i.3] for more information.

O-eNB: An O-RAN eNB as specified in 3GPP TS 36.401 [4] or O-RAN ng-eNB as specified in 3GPP TS 38.300 [8].

NOTE: Please refer to clause 5.3.7 for more information.

O-RAN Central Unit – Control Plane: A logical node hosting the RRC and the control plane part of the PDCP protocol.

NOTE: Please refer to clause 5.3.3 for more information.

O-RAN Central Unit – User Plane: A logical node hosting the user plane part of the PDCP protocol and the SDAP protocol.

NOTE: Please refer to clause 5.3.4 for more information.

O-RAN Distributed Unit: A logical node hosting RLC/MAC/High-PHY layers based on a lower layer functional split.

NOTE: Please refer to clause 5.3.5 for more information.

O-RAN Network Function: A network function with O-RAN defined behaviors and interfaces, which can also inherit and/or extend defined behaviors and interfaces of a Network Function defined in 3GPP TS 23.501 [1].

O-RAN node: Same as an O-RAN NF.

O-RAN Radio Unit: A logical node hosting Low-PHY layer and RF processing based on a lower layer functional split.  This is similar to 3GPP’s “TRP” or “RRH” but more specific in including the Low-PHY layer (FFT/iFFT, PRACH extraction).

NOTE: Please refer to clause 5.3.6 for more information.

O1: Interface used by the SMO framework, as specified in clause 5.3.1, for operation and management of O-RAN NFs as specified in OAM Interface [31].

O2: Interface between SMO framework as specified in clause 5.3.1 and the O-Cloud.

NOTE: Please refer to O2GAP [33] for more information.

Open Fronthaul M-Plane: Management interface controlling the O-RU, generally driven from the O-DU but in the case of the hybrid topology also driven from the SMO.

NOTE: Please refer to Open FH M-Plane [24] for more details.

PCell O-DU: O-DU where SpCell (Special Cell as defined in 3GPP TS 37.340 [41]) is configured for a particular UE for supporting inter O-DU carrier aggregation.

rApp: Modular application that consumes and/or produces non real time management and automation services.

R1: A service-based interface between the rApps and the R1 Termination via which R1 services can be produced and consumed.

NOTE: Please refer to R1GAP [35] for more information.

R1 Services: The SMOS capabilities available for consumption by rApps, and the capabilities produced by rApps, that are accessible via the R1 interface.

SCell O-DU: O-DU where SCell (Secondary Cell as defined in 3GPP TS 37.340 [41]) is configured for a particular UE for supporting inter O-DU carrier aggregation.

SMO: A Service Management and Orchestration framework (SMO framework).

NOTE: Please refer to clause 5.3.1 for more details.

SMO External Interface: The interface between the SMO and an SMO External System.

SMO External System: A data source outside the O-RAN domain that provides data to the SMO.

SMO Functions (SMOFs): Internal SMO entities which provide one or more SMO Services.

NOTE: An SMO Function exposes standardized interfaces which enable interoperability between SMO Functions.

SMO Service (SMOS): Standardized cohesive set of management, orchestration and automation capabilities offered by an SMO Function.

xApp: An application consuming and/or producing Near-RT RIC services via the Near-RT RIC API to provide value added control of, or guidance to the E2 Nodes.

Y1: An interface over which RAN analytics services are exposed by the Near-RT RIC to be consumed by Y1 consumers.

Y1 consumers: A role played by entities within or outside of the PLMN trust domain that consumes the Y1 services produced by the Near-RT RIC.

## 3.2 Symbols

Void

## 3.3 Abbreviations

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1] and the following apply:

- **4G**: 4th Generation of mobile communications
- **5G**: 5th Generation of mobile communications
- **3GPP**: 3rd Generation Partnership Project
- **5GC**: 5G Core
- **5GS**: 5G System
- **AAL**: Accelerator Abstraction Layer
- **API**: Application Programing Interface
- **AI**: Artificial Intelligence
- **AMF**: Access and Mobility Functions
- **CA**: Carrier Aggregation
- **CM**: Configuration Management
- **CMTS**: Cable Modem Termination System
- **CP**: Control Plane
- **CSP**: Communications Service Provider
- **CTI**: Cooperative Transport Interface
- **CUS**: Control User Synchronization
- **DC**: Dual Connectivity
- **DOCSIS**: Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification
- **DM**: Data Model
- **DME**: Data Management and Exposure
- **DTLS**: Datagram Transport Layer Security
- **E-UTRA**: Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
- **E-UTRAN**: Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
- **EN-DC**: E-UTRAN New Radio – Dual Connectivity
- **eNB**: evolved Node B
- **EPC**: Evolved Packet Core
- **FCAPS**: Fault, Configuration, Accounting, Performance, Security
- **FFT**: Fast Fourier Transform
- **FHGW**: Fronthaul Gateway
- **FHM**: Fronthaul Multiplexer
- **FM**: Fault Management
- **gNB**: next generation Node B
- **gNB-CU**: gNB Central Unit
- **gNB-DU**: gNB Distributed Unit
- **GUAMI**: Globally Unique AMF Identifier
- **GUMMEI**: Globally Unique MME Identifier
- **HARQ**: Hybrid Automatic Repeat Request
- **ID**: Identifier
- **iFFT**: inverse Fast Fourier Transform
- **IM**: Information Model
- **IPSec**: Internet Protocol Security
- **LLS**: Lower Layer Split
- **LTE**: Long Term Evolution
- **MAC**: Media Access Control
- **ME**: Managed Element
- **MeNB**: Master eNB
- **MF**: Managed Function
- **ML**: Machine Learning
- **MME**: Mobility Management Entity
- **Near-RT RIC**: Near-Real-Time RAN Intelligent Controller
- **NETCONF**: Network Configuration Protocol
- **NF**: Network Function
- **NG**: Next Generation
- **NG-RAN**: Next Generation RAN
- **NGAP**: Next Generation Application Protocol
- **NIST**: National Institute of Standards and Technology
- **NMS**: Network Management System
- **Non-RT RIC**: Non-Real-Time RAN Intelligent Controller
- **NR**: 5G New Radio
- **O-Cloud**: O-RAN Cloud
- **O-CU-CP**: O-RAN Central Unit – Control Plane.
- **O-CU-UP**: O-RAN Central Unit – User Plane
- **O-DU**: O-RAN Distributed Unit
- **O-eNB**: O-RAN eNB
- **O-RU**: O-RAN Radio Unit
- **OAM**: Operations, Administration and Maintenance
- **OLT**: Optical Line Terminal
- **ONU**: Optical Network Unit
- **Open FH**: Open Fronthaul
- **PDCP**: Packet Data Convergence Protocol
- **PHY**: Physical layer
- **PKI**: Public Key Infrastructure
- **PKIX**: Public Key Infrastructure (X.509)
- **PM**: Performance Management
- **PNF**: Physical Network Function
- **PON**: Passive Optical Network
- **PRACH**: Physical Random Access Channel
- **PTP**: Precision Time Protocol
- **RAN**: Radio Access Network
- **rApp**: Non-RT RIC Application
- **RIC**: RAN Intelligent Controller
- **RF**: Radio Frequency
- **RLC**: Radio Link Control
- **RRC**: Radio Resource Control
- **RRH**: Remote Radio Head
- **RRU**: Remote Radio Unit
- **RT**: Real Time
- **RU**: Radio Unit
- **SBA**: Service Based Architecture
- **SBOM**: Software Bill of Materials
- **SDAP**: Service Data Adaptation Protocol
- **SME**: Service Management and Exposure
- **SMO**: Service Management and Orchestration
- **SMOF**: Service Management and Orchestration Function
- **SMOS**: Service Management and Orchestration Service
- **SRB**: Signalling Radio Bearer
- **SSHv2**: Secure Shell 2.0
- **TLS**: Transport Layer Security
- **TN**: Transport Node
- **TR**: Technical Report
- **TRP**: Transmission and Reception Point
- **TS**: Technical Specification
- **TU**: Transport Unit
- **UE**: User Equipment
- **UL**: Up Link
- **UP**: User Plane
- **UPF**: User Plane Function
- **WG**: Working Group
- **xApp**: Near-RT RIC Application
- **X2AP**: X2 Application Protocol
- **XnAP**: Xn Application Protocol
- **ZTA**: Zero Trust Architecture

# 4 General O-RAN architecture principles

This clause contains the general O-RAN architecture principles as described below.

- The O-RAN architecture, interface specifications, and terminology shall be consistent with 3GPP architecture, interface specifications, and terminology with additions to accommodate O-RAN specific features.
- This document represents the O-RAN architecture at the time of its publication and may evolve as deemed appropriate by the O-RAN ALLIANCE.
- The O-RAN architecture includes a logical representation of a Radio Access Network (RAN) which extends the 3GPP specified RAN and consists of logical NFs or logical nodes (as per 3GPP TS 38.300 [8] and TR 21.905 [i.1]).
NOTE: Therefore, the terms O-RAN NFs as well as O-RAN nodes are used interchangeably to refer to some of the logical O-RAN entities, according to the context used in that particular statement. In any case, they always refer to a logical entity and not to a physical or cloudified instantiation of an O-RAN NF or an O-RAN node.

# 5 O-RAN architecture

## 5.1 Overall architecture of O-RAN

Figure 5.1-1 below provides a high-level view of the O-RAN architecture.  It shows that the interfaces – A1, O1, Open Fronthaul M-plane and O2 – connecting SMO (Service Management and Orchestration) framework to O-RAN Network Functions and to O-Cloud. As depicted in this figure, the O-Cloud includes the O-Cloud Notification interface as specified in O-Cloud Notification API Specification for Event Consumers [28] is available for the relevant O-RAN Network Functions (i.e., Near-RT RIC, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP and O-DU) to receive O-Cloud related notifications.

Figure 5.1-1 below also illustrates that the O-RAN Network Functions can be hosted on the O-Cloud or on customized hardware.

All O-RAN NFs, except O-RU, are managed via the O1 interface to an authorized SMO framework.

The O1 interface exposes management services for the O-RAN NFs that are managed individually or together, as specified in OAM Architecture[34].

The Open Fronthaul M-plane interface, between SMO and O-RU, supports the O-RU management in hybrid mode, as specified in Open FH M-Plane [24].

O-RAN NFs instantiated on the O-Cloud may utilize the APIs exposed by the Accelerator Abstraction Layer (AAL) defined in AALGAP [29].

The Near-RT RIC O-RAN NF in figure below provides RAN analytics information services via the Y1 service interface as specified in Y1GAP [39]. These services can be consumed by Y1 consumers after mutual authentication and authorization by subscribing to or requesting the RAN analytics information via the Y1 service interface. Y1 consumers role can be played by entities which are within an PLMN trusted domain. Y1 consumers outside the PLMN trusted domain may use Y1 services in a secure manner via an exposure function, e.g., as in 3GPP TS 23.501 [1], clause 5.20. The framework for mutual authentication and authorization between Y1 consumers and the Near-RT RIC is not supported in the present document.

Within the logical architecture of O-RAN, as shown in Figure 5.1-2 below, the radio side includes Near-RT RIC, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU, and O-RU O-RAN NFs. The E2 interface connects O-eNB to Near-RT RIC.  Although not shown in this figure, the O-eNB does support O-DU and O-RU O-RAN NFs with an Open Fronthaul interface between them. The Near-RT RIC, in the figure below, supports the Y1 service interface towards Y1 consumers. Y1 consumers, unlike the other network elements shown in this figure, does not denote a logical O-RAN function.

As stated earlier, the management side includes SMO Framework containing a Non-RT-RIC function. The O-Cloud, on the other hand, is a cloud computing platform comprising a collection of physical infrastructure nodes that meet O-RAN requirements to host the relevant O-RAN NFs (such as Near-RT RIC, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, and O-DU etc.), the supporting software components (such as Operating System, Virtual Machine Monitor, Container Runtime, etc.) and the appropriate management and orchestration functions. The virtualization of O-RU is not supported in the present document.

As shown in this figure, the O-RU provides the Open Fronthaul M-Plane interface to authorized O-DU in hierarchical mode, or to authorized O-DU and SMO in hybrid mode as specified in Open FH M-Plane [24] and OAM Architecture [34].

NOTE: The LLS (O-DU to O-RU interface) specified in clauses 5.3.5 and 5.3.6 (Split Option 7-2x) is the Open Fronthaul interface described in the Open FH CUS-Plane [19]. Other LLS options specified in 3GPP TR 38.801 [i.2] may be considered for reference designs when the relevant interfaces are described in specifications created by related open industry initiatives (e.g., the Small Cell Forum for Split Option 6) or in O-RAN white-box hardware specifications (e.g., Split Option 8).

As shown in Figure 5.1-2, O-DU provides D2 interface to connect with peer O-DU for supporting inter O-DU carrier aggregation. The D2 interface includes D2-u and D2-c services.

The following figure shows the Uu interface between UE and O-RAN NFs as well as between UE and O-eNB. As shown in Figure 5.1-3 below, the dotted box denotes all the O-RAN NFs required to support the Uu interface for NR. The O-eNB, on the other hand, terminates the Uu interface for LTE. Please refer to clause 5.4.17 for more details.

## 5.2 O-RAN control loops

The O-RAN architecture supports at least the following control loops involving different O-RAN functionalities:

- Non-RT (Non-Real Time) control loops
- Near-RT (Near-Real Time) control loops
- RT (Real Time) control loops
As shown in Figure 5.2-1 above, the control loops are defined based on the controlling entity and the architecture shows the other logical entities with which the control loop host interacts.

Control loops exist at various levels and run simultaneously. Depending on the use case, they may or may not interact with each other. The use cases for the Non-RT and Near-RT control loops and the interaction between the RICs for these use cases are fully defined by O-RAN Use Cases Detailed Specification [38]. The Use Cases Detailed Specification [38] also defines relevant interaction for the O-CU-CP and O-DU control loops, responsible for call control and mobility, radio scheduling, HARQ, beamforming etc. along with slower mechanisms involving SMO management interfaces.  The timing of these control loops is use case dependent. Typical execution time for use cases involving the Non-RT control loops are 1 second or more; Near-RT control loops are in the order of 10 milliseconds or more; control loops in the E2 Nodes can operate below 10 milliseconds. (e.g., O-DU radio scheduling).

For any specific use case, however, a stable solution would require the loop time in the Non-RT RIC and/or SMO management plane processes to be significantly longer than the loop time for the same use case in the control entities stated above.

## 5.3 Description of O-RAN architecture elements

### 5.3.1 Service Management and Orchestration framework

#### 5.3.1.1 Service Management and Orchestration framework architecture principles

Service Management and Orchestration (SMO) and Service Management and Orchestration framework (SMO framework) have been used interchangeably in this document.

Service Based Architecture (SBA) introduces the roles of service producer and service consumer together with standardized service-based interfaces. These standardized service-based interfaces enable interoperability within the SMO. SBA is not concerned with the implementation, but it defines logical functions in their service producer and consumer roles. When properly applied the SBA approach can enable the following:

- Validates produced services with consumer use cases.
- Identifies service operations with their information model defining semantic behaviour.
- Specifies the API and a data model for a syntactic interface.
- Identifies common services that can be produced by a single producer such as those that are commonly used by multiple internal consumers (e.g., authentication, authorization, service registration and discovery, data management, etc.).

#### 5.3.1.2 SMO Services (SMOSs)

##### 5.3.1.2.1 Introduction to SMO Services

In the O-RAN architecture, SMO is responsible for RAN domain management. The SMO description in this architecture document is focused on the SMO services that support the RAN. Following the SBA principles above, the SMO Services produced by the SMO are defined. A SMOF implementation can produce and/or consume any combinations of one or more SMOSs, provided that the SMOF complies with the O-RAN specifications of the interfaces exposing the SMOSs.

The Non-RT RIC SMOF example depicted in the Figure 5.3-1 below shows support for rApps and for A1 related SMOSs. Otherwise, the definition of SMOFs is in general not in scope of the O-RAN specifications, as the interoperable functional behaviour of SMOFs is specified via the SMOS Producer/Consumer roles.

The SMO Services produced by the SMO are:

- RAN NF OAM SMO Service specified in 3GPP TS 32.101 [3], including capabilities such as,
- RAN NF Performance Assurance Management (NFPM)
- RAN NF Fault Supervision Management (NFFM)
- RAN NF Provisioning Management (NFCM)
- Others, e.g., Tracing, Logging, etc.
- Network Functions Orchestration (NFO) SMOS
- Federated O-Cloud Orchestration and Management (FOCOM) SMOS
- Service Management and Exposure (SME) SMOS
- Data Management and Exposure (DME) SMOS
- Topology Exposure and Inventory Management (TE&IV) SMOS
- RAN Analytics SMOS
- Service and Slice Subnet Orchestration SMOS
- Service and Slice Subnet Assurance SMOS
- AI/ML workflow (AIMLWF) SMOS
- rApp Management SMOS
- A1 related SMOSs
- Software package onboarding SMOS
- Policy Management and Information (PMI).
SME SMOS supports the exposure of other SMOSs, to both internal and external SMOS consumers.

DME SMOS supports the exposure of data produced by SMOS Producers, to both internal and external SMOS consumers.

The SMOSs described in this document are represented in a service-based architecture in the Figure 5.3.1.2.1-1 below.

The SMOS Communication, shown in Figure 5.3.1.2.1-1, represents the logical support for communication between any SMOS Producer, SMOS Consumer, and rApps. Examples of SMOS Communication implementation include, but are not limited to, service mesh, API gateway, direct communication, and message bus. SMOS consumers and producers rely on the capabilities provided by SME for purposes such as service discovery and on the capabilities provided by DME for purposes such as data exposure.

The R1 interface, shown in Figure 5.3.1.2.1-1, is a service-based interface. R1 termination, also shown in Figure 5.3.1.2.1-1, enables R1 service producers and R1 service consumers to exchange messages via the R1 interface.

Support for external service and/or data consumers and/or producers is defined in clause 5.3.1.2.5.

##### 5.3.1.2.2 Service Management and Orchestration framework in the O-RAN architecture

All the SMO Service producers represented in Figure 5.3.1.2.1-1 can also be SMOS consumers.

The SMO consumes services offered by other O-RAN architecture elements through four key southbound interfaces:

- A1 Interface between the Non-RT RIC in the SMO and the Near-RT RIC for RAN Optimization.
- O1 Interface provides SMO FCAPS support either directly or indirectly between the SMO and the O-RAN Network Functions.
- In the hierarchical model, SMO FCAPS support information over O1 to the O-DU which uses the Open FH M-Plane interface to manage the O-RU.
- In the hybrid model, SMO provides FCAPS support information over Open FH M-Plane interface between the SMO and the O-RU and over O1 to the O-DU which uses the Open FH M-Plane interface to manage the O-RU.
- O2 Interface between the SMO and the O-Cloud to provide O-Cloud resource management and workload management.

##### 5.3.1.2.3 Non-RT RIC

Non-RT RIC is the functionality internal to the SMO that supports intelligent RAN optimization by:

- enabling an A1-related SMOS to provide policy-based guidance over the A1 interface
- enabling an A1-related SMOS to provide enrichment information over the A1 interface
- enabling an A1-related SMOS to provide ML model management over the A1 interface
- enabling RAN optimization actions through RAN NF OAM SMOS over O1 and Open FH M-Plane interfaces, and NFO and FOCOM SMOSs over O2 interface
The rApps can be producers and/or consumers of R1 services, as shown in Figure 5.3.1.2.1-1. For more information on R1 services and the R1 interface refer to Non-RT RIC Architecture [27].

Non-RT RIC supports intelligent RAN optimization control loops through rApps with intervals greater than 1 second.

##### 5.3.1.2.4 SMO capabilities extensions

As a flexible extension mechanism, the SMO allows delivery of aspects of RAN management and orchestration functionality via rApps.

##### 5.3.1.2.5 Support for external service/data producers and/or consumers

SME and DME support the exposure of SMO services and/or data to authorized external service and/or data consumers, as represented in the SBA approach depicted in Figure 5.3.1.2.5-1.

SME and DME support the consumption by SMO of services and/or data from authorized external service and/or data producers, as represented in the SBA approach depicted in Figure 5.3.1.2.5-1.

Figure 5.3.1.2.5-1: Support for external service/data producers and/or consumers

### 5.3.2 Near-RT RIC

Near-RT RIC is an O-RAN NF that enables near real-time control and optimization of services and resources of E2 Nodes via fine-grained data collection and actions over the E2 interface with control loops in the order of 10 ms-1s. The Near-RT RIC hosts one or more xApps that use E2 interface to collect near real-time information (e.g., on a UE basis or a Cell basis) and provide value added services. The Near-RT RIC control over the E2 Nodes is steered via the policies and the enrichment data provided via A1 from the Non-RT RIC. Based on the available data, the Near-RT RIC generates the RAN analytics information and exposes it via Y1 interface.

The functional enhancement provided by the Near-RT RIC and the E2 Node is subject to the capability of the E2 Node exposed over the E2 interface by means of the E2SM [25], in order to support the use cases described in Use Cases Detailed Specification [38]. The E2 service model describes the functions in the E2 Node which may be controlled by the Near-RT RIC and the related procedures. For a function exposed in the E2SM [25], the Near-RT RIC may e.g., monitor, override, or control via policies the behavior of E2 Node.

In the event of a Near-RT RIC failure, the E2 Node shall be able to provide services but there may be an impact to certain optimization capabilities that are provided by the Near-RT RIC.

The Near-RT RIC is composed of a Near-RT RIC platform and one or more xApps as specified in Near-RT RIC Architecture [26] and their capabilities are exposed as services. Both the Near-RT RIC platform and an xApp can be a service producer and/or a service consumer, and these services can be accessed via the set of Near-RT RIC APIs as illustrated in Figure 5.3.2-1.

### 5.3.3 O-CU-CP

The O-CU-CP terminates the NG-c, X2-c, Xn-c, F1-c, and E1 interfaces as well as the RRC and PDCP (for SRB) protocols towards the UE as specified in 3GPP TS 38.401 [10].

The O-CU-CP terminates E2 interface to Near-RT RIC as specified in E2GAP [22].

The O-CU-CP is managed via O1 interface by the SMO as specified in OAM Architecture [34].

The O-CU-CP terminates NG-c interface to 5GC as specified in 3GPP TS 38.300 [8].

The O-CU-CP terminates X2-c interface to O-eNB (in case O-eNB is an O-RAN eNB), eNB, or to en-gNB in EN-DC as specified in 3GPP TS 36.420 [6] and 3GPP TS 38.300 [8].

The O-CU-CP terminates Xn-c to O-CU-UP, O-eNB (in case O-eNB is an O-RAN ng-eNB), gNB, or to ng-eNB as specified in 3GPP TS 38.300 [8] and 3GPP TS 38.420 [12].

### 5.3.4 O-CU-UP

The O-CU-UP terminates the NG-u, X2-u, S1-u, Xn-u, F1-u, and E1 interfaces as well as the PDCP and SDAP protocols towards the UE as specified in 3GPP TS 38.401 [10].

The O-CU-UP terminates E2 interface to Near-RT RIC as specified in E2GAP [22].

The O-CU-UP is managed via O1 interface by the SMO as specified in OAM Architecture [34].

The O-CU-UP terminates NG-u interface to 5GC as specified in 3GPP TS 38.300 [8].

The O-CU-UP terminates X2-u interface to O-eNB (in case O-eNB is an O-RAN eNB), eNB, or to en-gNB in EN-DC as specified in 3GPP TS 36.420 [6] and 3GPP TS 38.300 [8].

The O-CU-UP terminates Xn-u to O-CU-UP, O-eNB (in case O-eNB is an O-RAN ng-eNB), gNB, or to ng-eNB as specified in 3GPP TS 38.300 [8] and 3GPP TS 38.420 [12].

### 5.3.5 O-DU

The O-DU is an O-RAN NF in the O-RAN Architecture. An O-DU, combined with one or more O-RU(s) connected to it, supports and is fully compatible with the functions of a gNB-DU as defined by 3GPP TS 38.401 [10].

The O-DU may be implemented either by virtualized or non-virtualized methods.

The O-DU terminates the E2 and the F1 interface (according to the principles described in clause 5.4.9), and the Open Fronthaul interface (also known as LLS interface as specified in Open FH CUS-Plane [19]) as well as the RLC, MAC, and High-PHY functions of the radio interface towards the UE.

The O-DU is managed via O1 interface by the SMO as specified in OAM Architecture [34].

The O-DU terminates the Open Fronthaul M-Plane interface, towards the O-RU, to support O-RU management either in hierarchical model or hybrid model, as specified in Open FH M-Plane [24].

> NOTE: The O-DU terminates the D2 interface as specified in D2GAP [40] towards a peer O-DU, to support the inter O-DU NR carrier aggregation across O-DUs connected to same O-CU-CP.
The O-DU may support CTI to a TN to control UL bandwidth allocation to TUs for UL LLS traffic on shared point-to-multipoint transport network (TN is a PON OLT or DOCSIS CMTS, TU is a PON ONU or DOCSIS Cable Modem). The CTI is specified in CTI Control [20] and CTI Management [21]. An informative overview of the CTI is shown in Annex A.

### 5.3.6 O-RU

The O-RU terminates the Open Fronthaul interface (also known as LLS interface as specified in Open FH CUS-Plane [19]) as well as Low-PHY functions of the radio interface towards the UE. This is deployed as a PNF.

The O-RU terminates the Open Fronthaul M-Plane interface towards the O-DU and SMO as specified in Open FH M-Plane [24].

### 5.3.7 O-eNB

In case O-eNB is an O-RAN O-eNB, O-eNB terminates the S1, X2, O1 and E2 interfaces as well as the RRC, PDCP, RLC, MAC, and PHY layers of the LTE-Uu radio interface towards the UE as specified in 3GPP TS 36.401 [4]. In case O-eNB is an O-RAN ng-eNB, O-eNB terminates the NG, Xn, O1, and E2 interfaces as well as the RRC, SDAP, NR PDCP, RLC, MAC, and PHY layers of the LTE-Uu radio interface towards the UE as specified in 3GPP TS 38.401 [10].

In case O-eNB is an O-RAN ng-eNB,

- the O-eNB terminates E2 interface to Near-RT RIC as specified in E2GAP [22].
- the O-eNB is managed via O1 interface by the SMO as specified in OAM Architecture [34].
- the O-eNB terminates NG interface to 5GC as specified in 3GPP TS 38.300 [8].
- the O-eNB terminates Xn interface to O-eNB, gNB, ng-eNB, or O-CU-CP/O-CU-UP as specified in 3GPP TS 38.300 [8] and 3GPP TS 38.420 [12].
In case O-eNB is an O-RAN eNB,

- the O-eNB terminates E2 interface to Near-RT RIC as specified in E2GAP [22].
- the O-eNB is managed via O1 interface by the SMO as specified in OAM Architecture [34].
- the O-eNB terminates S1 interface to EPC as specified in 3GPP TS 36.401 [4].
- the O-eNB terminates X2 interface to O-eNB, eNB, en-gNB, or O-CU-CP/O-CU-UP as specified in 3GPP TS 36.401 [4] and 3GPP TS 38.420 [12].
The O-eNB supports O-DU and O-RU O-RAN NFs with an Open Fronthaul interface between them as specified in Open FH CUS-Plane [19] and Open FH M-Plane [24].

### 5.3.8 O-Cloud

O-Cloud is a cloud computing platform comprising a collection of physical infrastructure nodes that meet O-RAN requirements to host the relevant O-RAN NFs (i.e., Near-RT RIC, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, and O-DU), the supporting software components (such as Operating System, Virtual Machine Monitor, Container Runtime, etc.), and the appropriate management and orchestration functions which satisfy the following criteria:

- Exposes the O-RAN O2 interface for cloud and workload management to provide functions such as infrastructure discovery, registration, software lifecycle management, workload lifecycle management, fault management, performance management, and configuration management.
- Exposes O-RAN AAL API towards the hosted O-RAN workloads for hardware accelerator management.
- Exposes O-Cloud Notification interface towards the hosted O-RAN workloads in order to notify the workloads of critical notifications (e.g., PTP synchronization states).
- The virtualization of the O-RU is not supported in the present document.

## 5.4 Relevant interfaces in O-RAN architecture

### 5.4.1 Introduction to relevant interfaces in O-RAN architecture

The following interfaces are defined and maintained by O-RAN:

- A1 interface
- O1 interface
- O2 interface
- E2 interface
- Y1 interface
- O-Cloud Notification interface
- Open Fronthaul interface
- R1 interface
- Near-RT RIC APIs
- D2 interface
The following interfaces are defined and maintained by 3GPP, but seen also as part of the O-RAN architecture:

- E1 interface
- F1-c interface
- F1-u interface
- NG-c interface
- NG-u interface
- X2-c interface
- X2-u interface
- Xn-c interface
- Xn-u interface
- Uu interface
Following clauses describe the termination points of O-RAN defined interfaces and 3GPP interfaces adopted by O-RAN.

### 5.4.2 A1 interface

A1 interface is between Non-RT-RIC and the Near-RT RIC as specified in A1GAP [18].

A1 is the interface between the Non-RT RIC in SMO and the Near-RT RIC function O-RAN NF. A1 interface supports three types of services as defined in A1GAP [18]:

- Policy Management Service
- Enrichment Information Service
- ML Model Management Service
A1 policies have the following characteristics compared to persistent configuration as specified in A1GAP [18] and Use Cases Detailed Specification [38]. A1 policies,

- are not critical to traffic;
- have temporary validity;
- may handle individual UE or dynamically defined groups of UEs;
- act within and take precedence over the configuration;
- are non-persistent, i.e., do not survive a restart of the Near-RT RIC.

### 5.4.3 O1 interface

The O1 interface is used by SMO for the management of the O-RAN NFs as defined in OAM Architecture [34] and OAM Interface [31].

### 5.4.4 O2 interface

The O2 interface is between the SMO and O-Cloud as introduced in O2GAP [33]. The O2 interface provides two categories of services – O2 deployment management services (O2dms) and O2 infrastructure management services (O2ims).

### 5.4.5 E2 interface

E2 is a logical interface connecting the Near-RT RIC with an E2 Node as defined in E2GAP [22].

- An E2 Node is connected to only one Near-RT RIC.
- A Near-RT RIC can be connected to multiple E2 Nodes.
The E2 interface is a control plane interface that provides support for Near-RT RIC Services using E2 Application Protocol and E2 Services Models as specified in E2GAP [22].

### 5.4.6 O-Cloud Notification interface

The O-Cloud Notification interface allows event consumer such as an O-DU deployed on O-Cloud to subscribe to events/status from the O-Cloud. The cloud infrastructure will provide event producer to enable cloud workloads to receive events/status that might be known only to the infrastructure.

### 5.4.7 Open Fronthaul interface

The Open FH (Fronthaul) interface is between O-DU and O-RU logical nodes as specified in Open FH CUS-Plane [19] and Open FH M-Plane [24]. The Open FH interface includes the CUS (Control User Synchronization) Plane and M (Management) Plane. In hybrid mode, the Open FH M-Plane interface connects the O-RU to the SMO for FCAPS functionality.

### 5.4.8 E1 interface

The E1 interface, as defined by 3GPP, is between the gNB-CU-CP and gNB-CU-UP logical nodes as specified in 3GPP TS 38.401[10] and 3GPP TS 38.460 [14]. In O-RAN, it reuses the principles and protocol stack defined by 3GPP but is adopted between the O-CU-CP and the O-CU-UP logical nodes.

### 5.4.9 F1-c interface

The F1-c interface, as defined by 3GPP, is between the gNB-CU-CP and gNB-DU logical nodes as specified in 3GPP TS 38.401 [10] and 3GPP TS 38.470 [16]. In O-RAN, it reuses the principles and protocol stack defined by 3GPP but is adopted between the O-CU-CP and the O-DU logical nodes, as well as for the definition of interoperability profile specifications.

### 5.4.10 F1-u interface

The F1-u interface, as defined by 3GPP, is between the gNB-CU-UP and gNB-DU logical nodes as specified in 3GPP TS 38.401 [10] and 3GPP TS 38.470 [16]. In O-RAN, it reuses the principles and protocol stack defined by 3GPP but is adopted between the O-CU-UP and the O-DU logical nodes, as well as for the definition of interoperability profile specifications.

### 5.4.11 NG-c interface

The NG-c interface, as defined by 3GPP, is between the gNB-CU-CP and the AMF in the 5GC as specified in 3GPP TS 38.300 [8]. It is also referred as N2 in 3GPP TS 38.300 [8]. In O-RAN, it reuses the principles and protocol stack defined by 3GPP but is adopted between the O-CU-CP and the 5GC.

### 5.4.12 NG-u interface

The NG-u interface, as defined by 3GPP, is between the gNB-CU-UP and the UPF in the 5GC as specified in 3GPP TS 38.300 [8]. It is also referred as N3 in 3GPP TS 38.300 [8]. In O-RAN, it reuses the principles and protocol stack defined by 3GPP but is adopted between the O-CU-UP and the 5GC.

### 5.4.13 X2-c interface

The X2-c interface is defined in 3GPP for transmitting control plane information between eNBs or between eNB and en-gNB in EN-DC as specified in 3GPP TS 36.420 [6] and 3GPP TS 38.300 [8].  In O-RAN, it reuses the principles and protocol stack defined by 3GPP but is adopted for the definition of interoperability profile specifications.

### 5.4.14 X2-u interface

The X2-u interface is defined in 3GPP for transmitting user plane information between eNBs or between eNB and en-gNB in EN-DC as specified in 3GPP TS 36.420 [6] and 3GPP TS 38.300 [8].  In O-RAN, it reuses the principles and protocol stack defined by 3GPP but is adopted for the definition of interoperability profile specifications.

### 5.4.15 Xn-c interface

The Xn-c interface is defined in 3GPP for transmitting control plane information between gNBs, ng-eNBs or between ng-eNB and gNB as specified in 3GPP TS 38.300 [8] and 3GPP TS 38.420 [12]. In O-RAN, it reuses the principles and protocol stack defined by 3GPP but is adopted for the definition of interoperability profile specifications.

### 5.4.16 Xn-u interface

The Xn-u interface is defined in 3GPP for transmitting user plane information between gNBs, ng-eNBs or between ng-eNB and gNB as specified in 3GPP TS 38.300 [8] and 3GPP TS 38.420 [12]. In O-RAN, it reuses the principles and protocol stack defined by 3GPP but is adopted for the definition of interoperability profile specifications.

### 5.4.17 Uu interface

The UE to eNB/gNB interface in 3GPP is denoted as the Uu interface. The Uu is a complete protocol stack from L1 to L3 and as such, seen as a whole, it terminates in the NG-RAN. If the NG-RAN is decomposed, different protocols terminate at different reference points and none of them has been defined by O-RAN. Since the Uu messages still flow from the UE to the intended eNB/gNB managed function, it is not shown in the O-RAN architecture as a separate interface to a specific managed function. For more information on the Uu interface between the UE and the NG-RAN, please refer to clauses 5.2 and 5.3 of 3GPP TS 38.401 [10].

### 5.4.18 CTI (Cooperative Transport Interface)

Interface between the O-DU and TN to dynamically control bandwidth allocations to TUs when using a shared point-to-multipoint transport network. The CTI is specified in CTI Control [20] and CTI Management [21].

### 5.4.19 Y1 interface

Y1 service interface as specified in Y1GAP [39] allows the Y1 consumers to subscribe or request the RAN analytics information provided by Near-RT RIC.

### 5.4.20 R1 interface

The R1 interface is a service-based interface between the rApps and the Non-RT RIC framework via which R1 services can be produced and consumed as specified in Non-RT RIC Architecture [27].

The producers of R1 services can be part of the Non-RT RIC and/or the SMO Framework. R1 services are specified in R1GAP [35].

### 5.4.21 Near-RT RIC APIs

The Near-RT RIC APIs are a set of service-based interfaces that can be produced and consumed by the Near-RT RIC Platform and xApps as specified in Near-RT RIC Architecture [26].

### 5.4.22 D2 interface

> NOTE: The D2 interface is between two O-DU nodes connected to the same O-CU-CP. O-CU-UP for both the O-DUs can be same or different. One O-DU can be connected to multiple O-DUs. D2 interface is used for supporting inter O-DU NR carrier aggregation across O-DUs. An O-DU can be a PCell O-DU for a particular UE and a SCell O-DU for another UE at the same time.

## 5.5 UE associated identifiers used in O-RAN

As described earlier (clauses 5.3.1 and 5.3.2), the Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC enable intelligent RAN optimization via A1, O1 and E2 interfaces respectively.

To support intelligent RAN optimization, the Non-RT RIC with rApps and Near-RT RIC with xApps utilize the knowledge of different UE associated events reported by the O-RAN NFs (excluding O-RU) over E2 and O1 interfaces. Both the Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC may need to correlate different UE associated events reported by the O-RAN functions for the same UE. In order to facilitate this correlation task, the reporting O-RAN NF includes a set of UE associated identifiers with any report containing UE specific information.

The Table 5.5-1 below shows the set of UE associated identifiers to be reported by any O-RAN NF (excluding O-RU) over O1 and E2 interfaces for any UE associated information.

| UE associated identifier | Reference Specification | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- |
| AMF UE NGAP ID | 3GPP TS 38.413 [11] | Reported by O-CU-CP and O-eNB for UEs connected to 5GC. |
| GUAMI | 3GPP TS 38.413 [11] | Reported by O-CU-CP and O-eNB for UEs connected to 5GC. |
| MME UE S1AP ID | 3GPP TS 36.413 [5] | Reported by O-eNB for UEs connected to EPC. |
| GUMMEI | 3GPP TS 36.413 [5] | Reported by O-eNB for UEs connected to EPC. |
| gNB-CU UE F1AP ID | 3GPP TS 38.473 [17] | Reported by O-CU-CP and O-DU. |
| gNB-CU-CP UE E1AP ID | 3GPP TS 38.463 [15] | Reported by O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP. |
| RAN UE ID | 3GPP TS 38.473 [17] 3GPP TS 38.463 [15] | Reported by O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP and O-DU when available/allocated. |
| M-NG-RAN node UE XnAP ID | 3GPP TS 38.423 [13] | Identifier reported when the UE operates in DC with 5GC. Reported by O-CU-CP and O-eNB. |
| Global NG-RAN Node ID | 3GPP TS 38.423 [13] | Identifier reported when the UE operates in DC with 5GC. Identifies the peer gNB/ng-eNB and is reported in conjunction with the M-NG-RAN node UE XnAP ID to ensure that the UE can be uniquely identified over Xn interface. Reported by O-eNB and O-CU-CP. |
| MeNB UE X2AP ID | 3GPP TS 36.423 [7] | Identifier reported when the UE operate in DC with EPC. Reported by O-CU-CP and O-eNB. |
| Global eNB ID | 3GPP TS 36.423 [7] | Identifier reported when the UE operate in DC with EPC. Identifies the peer eNB and is reported in conjunction with the MeNB UE X2AP ID to ensure that the UE can be uniquely identified over X2 interface. Reported by O-CU-CP and O-eNB. |
| C-RNTI (Cell Radio Network Temporary Identifier) | 3GPP TS 38.331 [9] | Optionally reported by O-CU-CP, O-DU and O-eNB. |

Additionally, the Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC may initiate messages towards the O-RAN NFs which are associated with specific UEs. In such cases, the Non-RT RIC and Near RT RIC may include one or more of the UE associated identifiers specified in the Table 5.5-1 above with any UE associated messages over A1 and E2 interface for identification of the UE in the O-RAN NFs.

## 5.6 O-RAN security architecture

The goals of the O-RAN ALLIANCE are to achieve a secure, open, and interoperable RAN. Building upon security advancements from the 3GPP and IETF standards development organizations, the O-RAN ALLIANCE specifies an O-RAN security architecture with the goal to enable 5G CSPs (Communication Service Provider) to deploy and operate O-RAN with the same, or higher level of confidence as a 3GPP-specified RAN. The O-RAN ALLIANCE is strengthening O-RAN’s security posture by specifying security requirements and security controls that mitigate risk across its attack surface while pursuing the goals of a ZTA (Zero-Trust Architecture).

The O-RAN security architecture is specified in the following two O-RAN Technical Specifications:

- Security Protocols Specifications [36]
- Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [37]
The above TSs, Security Protocols Specifications [36] and Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [37], include specifications for configuration and cipher suites with use of the following security protocols on O-RAN interfaces to ensure confidentiality, integrity, availability, and authenticity: SSHv2 (Secure Shell 2.0), TLS 1.2 and 1.3, DTLS (Datagram Transport Layer Security) 1.2, IPsec (Internet Protocol Security), OAuth 2.0, CMPv2, IEEE 802.1X, and NETCONF (Network Configuration Protocol) over Secure Transport.

O-RAN has also provided requirements for SBOM (Software Bill of Materials) in Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [37].

The test cases to verify proper security implementation of O-RAN security architecture is specified in the O-RAN Technical Specification:

- O-RAN Security Tests Specifications [32]
The threats to the O-RAN architecture and the risk assessment are documented in the TR:

- O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment [i.4]
The security threat modeling and risk analysis is used to derive the security requirements and security controls in the Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [37]. The O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment [i.4] considers external and internal threats to achieve a ZTA.  In addition, security analysis TRs are maintained for O-RAN NFs and features.  These TRs help to drive the requirements in the O-RAN security specifications.

NOTE: Internal and external threats are considered in a ZTA, as defined in NIST SP 800-207 [i.6].  Achieving a ZTA is an incremental process, as identified by the United States Department of Homeland Security’s Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency in Zero Trust Maturity Model [i.7].  The O-RAN ALLIANCE is continuing to pursue a ZTA as the O-RAN architecture, threats, and controls evolve.

# 6 O-RAN Information Model (IM) principles

O-RAN shall align its Information Model (IM) with 3GPP to the extent possible. The additional O-RAN extensions to its IM and DMs (Data Model) are described in O-RAN Information Model and Data Models Specification [30].

## A.1 Shared cell

Shared cell, as specified in Open FH CUS-Plane [19], is defined as the operation for the same cell by several O-RUs with one or multiple component carriers. It can be deployed in either FHM (Fronthaul Multiplexer) or Cascade mode as described below.

In FHM mode, the shared cell may be realized by placing an FHM function between an O-DU and several O-RUs that may have one or multiple component carriers from these O-RUs. FHM function may be modelled as an O-RU with LLS Fronthaul support (same as normal O-RU) along with the copy and combine function (additional to normal O-RU), but without radio transmission/reception capability. The Figure A.1-1 below shows how each O-RU can be used for either operating in the same cell (Single Cell Scenario) or in different cells (Multiple Cells Scenario) by configuring the FHM function.

In Cascade mode, the shared cell is realized by several O-RUs cascaded in chain. In this case, one or more O-RUs are inserted between the O-DU and the O-RU. The O-RUs in the cascaded chain except for the last O-RU support Copy and Combine function. Figure A.1-2 below shows an implementation of Cascade mode shared cell.

The Cascade mode, as described above, is implemented within the O-RU.

Please refer to Open FH CUS-Plane [19] for additional information.

## A.2 FHGW function

The FHGW (Fronthaul Gateway) function may be placed between the O-DU and RU/RRU (Radio Unit / Remote Radio Unit) with the following O-RAN specified interfaces:

- The interface between O-DU and FHGW function is Open Fronthaul (Option 7-2x).
- The interface between FHGW function and RU/RRU is subject to reference implementation developed by any relevant O-RAN WG (e.g., WG7) as described in Hardware Reference Design Specification for Indoor Picocell (FR1) with Split Architecture Option 8 [23].
- The interface between FHGW function and RU/RRU does not support Open Fronthaul (Option 7-2x).
- The FHGW function may be packaged with other functions (such as Ethernet switching) in a physical product, as considered within WG7.
The Figure A.2-1 below depicts the deployment of the FHGW function using O-RAN specified interfaces.

## A.3 Near-RT RIC

The Near-RT RIC can control multiple E2 Nodes or can control a single E2 Node. The following figures show two implementation options of Near-RT RIC.

## A.4 Near-RT RIC, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU, and O-RU

Although the O-RAN architecture specifies the O-RAN NFs Near-RT RIC, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU and O-RU as separate O-RAN architecture elements, it is possible in the implementation to aggreagate some or all of these O-RAN NFs, and thus collapsing some of the internal interfaces, e.g., F1-c, F1-u, E1, and E2. At least the following implementation options are possible:

- Disaggregated O-RAN NFs as per O-RAN architecture
- Aggregate O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP
- Aggregate O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, and O-DU
- Aggregate Near-RT RIC, O-CU-CP, and O-CU-UP
- Aggregate O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU, and O-RU
- Aggregate O-DU and O-RU
- Aggregate Near-RT RIC, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU, and O-RU
Aggregation of O-RAN NFs is supported by the O-RAN specified interfaces O1 and E2. For the O1 interface, the aggregated O-RAN NFs will be managed as separate Managed Functions belonging to a single Managed Element as specified in OAM Architecture [34]. For the E2 interface the aggregated O-RAN NFs can be exposed as part of the E2 Service Model towards the Near-RT RIC (see Annex A in E2GAP [22]).

Please see the figures (i.e., Figure A.4-1 through Figure A.4-7) below.

## A.5 Cooperative transport

To enhance the resource utilization and reduce the latency of UL LLS traffic when using a shared point-to-multipoint transport network requiring resource allocation (such as PON or DOCSIS), the O-RAN architecture supports a cooperative transport feature. The cooperative transport feature is based on the O-DU’s knowledge of the expected uplink LLS traffic from a given O-RU which is provided to the associated (PON or DOCSIS) TN in the transport network. This enables the TN to dynamically allocate the correct bandwidth over the shared transport network to the TU that is used by the O-RU. The CTI signaling is described in CTI Control [20]. To support the CTI, the O-DU is configured over the O1 interface with CTI client specific configuration as described in CTI Management [21]. When there are intermediate nodes between the O-DU and the TN, they will forward the CTI messages transparently but will not participate in CTI interactions.

A simplified architecture of the CTI is shown in figure A.5-1 below. The SMO, O-DU and O1 interface shown in this figure are part of the O-RAN Architecture (please see clauses 5.3.1, 5.3.5, and 5.4.3, respectively), whereas the TN and Transport OAM, are the components of the transport network. For detailed specification and reference architecture, please see CTI Control [20] and CTI Management [21].

## A.6 Inter O-DU Carrier Aggregation (CA)

The D2 interface is used for supporting carrier aggregation across cells configured in the different O-DUs as specified in D2GAP [40]. In the present document, DL CA is supported by the D2 interface that includes D2-c and D2-u.


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG1.TS.SMO-ARCH-R004-v01.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG1.TS.SMO-ARCH-R004-v01.00 O-RAN Work Group 1 (Use Cases and Overall Architecture)   SMO Architecture"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms

For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in [1] apply.

## 3.2 Symbols

Void.

## 3.3 Abbreviations

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in [1] apply.

# 4 O-RAN SMO Architecture

## 4.1 SMO Overview

The SMO capabilities identified as SMOSs are represented in a service-based architecture in Figure 4.1-1 below. All the SMO Service producers represented in Figure 4.1-1 can also be SMOS consumers.

Service Management and Orchestration (SMO) and Service Management and Orchestration framework (SMO framework) are used interchangeably in this document.

NOTE: The SMOS interfaces and modelling are not specified in the present document.

NOTE: The AI/ML Workflow, RAN Analytics and Policy Management and Information SMOSs shown in Figure 4.1-1 are not addressed in the current version of this specification.

The SMOS Communication, shown in Figure 4.1-1, represents the logical support for communication between any SMOS Producer, SMOS Consumer, and rApps. Examples of SMOS Communication implementation include, but are not limited to, service mesh, API gateway, direct communication, and message bus. SMOS consumers and producers rely on the capabilities provided by SME for purposes such as service discovery and on the capabilities provided by DME for purposes such as data exposure.

The R1 interface, shown in Figure 4.1-1, is a service-based interface. R1 termination, also shown in Figure 4.1-1, enables R1 service producers and R1 service consumers to exchange messages via the R1 interface.

SME and DME support the exposure of SMO services, and/or data to authorized external services, and/or external data consumers, as represented in the SBA approach depicted in Figure 4.1-1.

SME and DME support the SMO consumption of external services, and/or data from authorized external services, and/or external data producers, as represented in the SBA approach depicted in Figure 4.1-1.

## 4.2       SMO Services (SMOS)

### 4.2.1 Introduction to SMO Services

Editor’s Note: overview of the SMO capabilities.

### 4.2.2 Service Management and Exposure (SME) SMOS description

The SME service is introduced in the Non-RT RIC Architecture specification [i.1] section 3.1. The SME services are applicable to any entities within the SMO that fulfil the roles of Service Producer and/or Service Consumer.

In a service-based SMO architecture, the SME can be leveraged as a generic SMOS, handling service management and exposure for any SMOSs within SMO. The SME SMOS provides a set of common SMO capabilities that are needed for all SMO Services.

The SME SMOS offers the following capabilities:

- Service registration,
- Service discovery,
- Authentication and authorization to access a service,
- Communication support (e.g. service mesh) between Service Producers and Service Consumers,
- Bootstrap of new Service consumers and Service Producers (determination of the endpoints for the SME services) (optional),
- Heartbeat of Service producers (optional).
The role of one, or both, of Service Producer and Service Consumer can be assumed by any SMOF or rApp in the SMO. The services are registered individually. The Service Consumers can also be external to the SMO, for the services made discoverable and exposed also to the external SMO consumers.

### 4.2.3 Data Management and Exposure (DME) SMOS description

The DME SMOS provides capabilities that allow Data Consumers, as defined in the Non-RT RIC Architecture specification [i.1], to discover data types and to consume collected data, and allow Data Producers, as defined in the Non-RT RIC Architecture specification [i.1], to register data types and to produce data for collection. The DME services can handle any registered data types and expose them for discovery and consumption to Data Consumers. In the Non-RT RIC Architecture specification [i.1] clause 3.2, both the Data Producer and Data Consumer are restricted to refer only to rApps, because the scope of [i.1] is the R1 interface between rApps and the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework.

This is extended in a decoupled service-based SMO architecture, where the DME SMOS can be leveraged as an enabler handling any SMOS data types, therefore any SMOF can also be a Data Producer and/or a Data Consumer which can benefit from using DME SMOS to register, produce, discover and consume data.

The role of one, or both, of Data Producer and Data Consumer can be assumed by any SMOF and rApp (for the data types related to each SMOS and/or rApp) in the SMO. The SMO Data Consumers can also be external SMO consumers, for the data made discoverable and allowed to be exposed to the external SMO consumers.

### 4.2.4 RAN NF OAM SMOS description

- Provisioning Management, including bulk and basic synchronous and asynchronous configuration management CRUD (create, read, update, delete) operations, CM notifications and model exposure.
- Fault Supervision Management, including alarm subscription, notification, clearing, acknowledgement, and query
- Performance Management, including PM counter initiation and supervision
- Trace Management, including trace initiation and supervision
- Streaming Data Reporting, including stream collection and stream exposure.
- File Data Reporting, including file collection and file exposure.
- PNF software and hardware management.
- NF Log data collection and exposure.

### 4.2.5 Network Function Orchestrator SMOS description

The Network Function Orchestrator (NFO) SMOS includes capabilities for the orchestration of the NF Deployments that constitute the Cloudified NFs. This includes the initial deployment of the software and any subsequent lifecycle management actions necessary on the respective NF Deployments instances, such as healing, updates, scaling, software upgrades, termination, etc.

The NFO SMOS leverages the NF Deployment management services provided by the O-Clouds, each exposing O2dms services over the O2 interface, for deployment and lifecycle management of NF Deployment instances.

The NFO SMOS interacts with the DMS by means of specified O2dms profiles:

- The ETSI NFV O2dms profile [5], which is based on the ETSI GS-NFV SOL 003 protocol specification [11]
- The Kubernetes O2dms profile [6], which is based on the Kubernetes API protocol specification
The NFO SMOS also provide capabilities for:

- Monitoring the execution status of lifecycle operations/requests that the NFO has been requested to execute
- Querying to understand which O-Cloud node cluster an NF Deployment is deployed on
- Secure handling of sensitive NF Deployment configuration data
NFO SMOS capabilities are exposed to consumers via SME and DME.

> NOTE: The capability of the NFO is introduced from a logical perspective in the O-RAN Working Group 6 O2 Interface General Aspects and Principles specification [2] and the use cases are described in the O-RAN WG6 Cloudification and Orchestration Use Cases and Requirements specification [3].

### 4.2.6 Federated O-Cloud Orchestration and Management (FOCOM) SMOS description

The Federated O-Cloud Orchestration and Management (FOCOM) SMOS includes capabilities for orchestration of cluster and infrastructure resources in one or several O-Clouds. It includes, but is not limited to, the following capabilities:

- Querying and discovery of O-Cloud infrastructure inventory information such as O-Cloud Sites, physical and logical infrastructure resources, Node Clusters, Deployment Managers and O-Cloud Template information.
- Subscription for notifications related to changes in O-Cloud infrastructure inventory information.
- Provisioning (create, update, delete) of cluster and infrastructure resources in each O-Cloud.
- Monitoring of cluster and infrastructure resources in each O-Cloud.
The FOCOM SMOS exposes O-Cloud infrastructure inventory information that is acquired from the O-Cloud O2ims inventory service. The FOCOM SMOS enables the service consumer to subscribe for notifications related to particular O-Cloud resource types.

FOCOM SMOS capabilities are exposed to consumers via SME and DME.

> NOTE: The functionality of FOCOM is introduced from a logical perspective in the O-RAN Working Group 6 O2 Interface General Aspects and Principles specification [2] and the use cases are described in the O-RAN WG6 Cloudification and Orchestration Use Cases and Requirements specification [3].

### 4.2.7 Service and Slice Subnet Orchestration SMOS (SO SMOS) description

The SO SMOS includes capabilities to perform the orchestration of a RAN service and/or slice subnet. This includes both the orchestration of the fulfilment of the RAN service or the RAN slice subnet, and orchestration support for the actuation of an assurance process. The behaviour of the SO SMOS is dependent on both the SO requests that it receives and the related artifacts to support the requests. The exact definition of the RAN service is defined by the operator using the SMO, it can be generally considered as a logical concept that represents the capability for the RAN within a certain geographic area, to provide UEs the ability to have voice and/or data connectivity to the core, with requested characteristics. This includes the RAN slice subnet. In order to execute on its responsibilities, the SO SMOS consumes other services including the RAN NF OAM SMOS for configuration, the FOCOM SMOS for infrastructure management requests, the NFO for deployment requests, as well as services produced by rApps, etc.

The SO SMOS includes the following capabilities:

- Oversees and automates the fulfillment of a service or a slice subnet order, received directly or via a higher -level orchestrator, according to the information contained in the service or a slice subnet order and the related artifacts, utilizing the services provided by SMOFs (such as SMOFs supporting RAN NF OAM SMOS for configuration, NFO SMOS for NF Deployment [2] LCM, etc.) and services produced by rApps.
- Coordinates the orchestration of lifecycle and service or the slice subnet-related configuration for one or more RAN NFs (also including multiple NF Deployments), including taking the homing decision considering both the RAN service or the slice subnet, and application-level requirements as well as the non-functional requirements e.g., infrastructure capabilities needed as well as the transport networks used to interconnect the O-RAN NFs (and NF Deployments) and O-RUs when they are deployed over different sites in order to meet the connectivity requirements for the RAN service or the slice subnet. This can include generating the required configuration used when requesting (via the appropriate SMOS) the configuration of the RAN NFs.
- Coordination of the NFs transport connectivity: based on requirements and objectives obtained on RAN NF connectivity it requests the suitable transport networks management domain to fulfil the requirements of the RAN service and/or slice subnet requirements.
- Based on the infrastructure requirements of the O-RAN NF Deployments, it orchestrates the necessary management actions to the O-Cloud infrastructure, by coordinating with FOCOM SMOS producer for the needed O-Cloud management requests.
SO SMOS capabilities are exposed to consumers via SME and DME.

### 4.2.8 Service and Slice Subnet Assurance SMOS (SA SMOS) description

The SA SMOS includes capabilities to ensure the required assurance for the RAN services and slice subnets. The behaviour of SA SMOS is dependent upon the related artifacts to support the request. It consumes the services provided by other SMOS Producers and can delegate responsibilities to rApps according to its configuration.

The SA SMOS includes the following capabilities:

- Assures the intended state (together with rApps and/or other SMOSs) of the RAN services and slice subnets.
- It monitors/observes the data that is relevant (produced by other SMOS producers and/or services produced by rApps) to assessing the current RAN service, and/or RAN slice subnet characteristics against the service requirements.
- In case the RAN service and/or RAN slice subnet requirements are not met, decisions are taken (together with rApps and/or other SMOSs) on a course of remedial actions.
- The identified actions (e.g., configuration changes, scaling, changes of connectivity, etc.) are executed (by making requests to rApps and/or other SMOSs producers), as part of an open or closed automation loop.
- In the case that the service or slice subnet requirements cannot be met, the service assurance will escalate to the operator and/or northbound systems.
SA SMOS capabilities are exposed to consumers via SME and DME.

### 4.2.9 rApp Management SMOS description

The rApp management SMOS includes the following set of capabilities:

- rApp lifecycle management, including rApp deployment, rApp upgrade and rApp termination.
- rApp configuration management, which enables management of the rApp instance configuration settings.
- rApp fault management, which enables an rApp instance to report faults that are related to the rApp itself or to its communication with other entities.
- rApp performance management, which enables an rApp instance to report on the performance of the rApp itself or to its communication with other entities.
- rApp logging, which enables an rApp instance to generate and report timestamped logs, including audit trail records of its configuration actions within the network.
rApp management SMOS capabilities are exposed to consumers via SME and DME.

NOTE 1: An rApp instance is a specific occurrence of an rApp as defined in [1].

> NOTE 2: rApp package on-boarding is a prerequisite for executing the capabilities of the rApp management SMOS. The rApp package on-boarding is not in scope of this SMOS.
> NOTE: For further details see O-RAN TS: Non-RT RIC Architecture [4].

### 4.2.10 Topology Exposure and Inventory SMOS description

- Creating, updating and deleting information about TE&IV resources and the relationships between them
- Querying to obtain information about the TE&IV resources and the relationships between them, using filter criteria such as TE&IV resource types and/or geo-location data
- Subscribing for notifications of changes to TE&IV resource information
> NOTE: TE&IV resources include both RAN resources and O-Cloud resources. For further details see O-RAN TS: O-RAN Topology Exposure and Inventory Management Services Use Cases and Requirements [7].
Topology Exposure and Inventory SMOS capabilities are exposed to consumers via SME and DME.

### 4.2.11 Software Package Onboarding SMOS description

- Onboarding of software packages to the SMO
- Validation of software packages to ensure that their format and contents can be understood by the SMO
- Security verification of the software package contents
- Extraction of artifacts contained in the software package and making them available to other SMOSs for consumption
- Deletion of software packages from the SMO
- Querying the list of onboarded software packages
Software packages supported by the Software Package Onboarding SMOS include O-RAN NFs (as defined in the O-RAN Operations and Maintenance Architecture [8]), rApps and xApps.

Software Package Onboarding SMOS capabilities are exposed to consumers via SME and DME.

> NOTE: For further details see O-RAN TS: O-RAN Onboarding SMOS General Aspects and Principles [9].

### 4.2.12 A1 Related SMOS description

The A1 Related SMOS includes, but is not limited to, the following capabilities:

Support for management of A1 policies, including discovery of A1 policies and A1 policy types available in Near-RT RICs, as well as creation, querying, updating, and deletion of A1 policies, querying the enforcement status of A1 policies, and subscribing for event notifications related to A1 policies and A1 policy types.

Support for A1 Enrichment Information (EI), including registration and deregistration of EI types.

Support for discovering AI/ML model training capabilities exposed by Near-RT RICs, and requesting AI/ML model training and status of training jobs.

The capabilities of the A1 Related SMOS are exposed to consumers via SME.

For further details on the A1 interface see O-RAN TS: O-RAN A1 interface: General Aspects and Principles [10].

## 4.3 SMO in consumer role of southbound interfaces

Editor’s Note: SMO southbound interfaces.

## 4.4 Northbound external exposure of SMO Services

Editor’s Note: introduce the external northbound SMO exposure.

## 4.5 Extending the SMO services

Editor’s Note: address how new services/capabilities can be added in the SMO.

## 4.6 SMO Functions

### 4.6.1 Introduction

Editor’s Note: introduce SMOFs as combos of one or more SMOS Producers.

### 4.6.2 Non-RT RIC SMOF

Editor’s Note: clarify Non-RT RIC SMOF role within SMO.


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG1.TS.Slicing-Architecture-R004-v14.01.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG1.TS.Slicing-Architecture-R004-v14.01 Technical Specification O-RAN Work Group 1 (Use Cases and Overall Architecture) Slicing Architecture"
---

### D.1.4 Multi-operator slice: High-level use cases and potential requirements for exposure fo MnS related to Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by WG1 of the O-RAN Alliance. The content of the present document is subject to continuing work within O-RAN and may change following formal O- RAN approval. Should the O-RAN Alliance modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released by O- RAN with an identifying change of version date and an increase in version number as follows: version xx.yy.zz where: xx: the first digit-group is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc. (the initial approved document will have xx=01). Always 2 digits with leading zero if needed. yy: the second digit-group is incremented when editorial only changes have been incorporated in the document. Always 2 digits with leading zero if needed. zz: the third digit-group included only in working versions of the document indicating incremental changes during the editing process. External versions never include the third digit-group. Always 2 digits with leading zero if needed. Modal verbs terminology In the present document "shall", "shall not", "should", "should not", "may", "need not", "will", "will not", "can" and "cannot" are to be interpreted as described in clause 3.2 of the O-RAN Drafting Rules (Verbal forms for the expression of provisions). "must" and "must not" are NOT allowed in O-RAN deliverables except when used in direct citation.

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions [given in [i.1] and the following] apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in [i.1]. A1: Interface between Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC to enable policy-driven guidance of Near-RT RIC applications/functions, and support AI/ML workflow. A1 policy: Type of declarative policies expressed using formal statements that enable the Non-RT RIC function in the SMO to guide the Near-RT RIC function, and hence the RAN, towards better fulfilment of the RAN intent. A1 enrichment information: Information utilized by Near-RT RIC that is collected or derived at SMO/Non-RT RIC either from non-network data sources or from network functions themselves. E2: Interface connecting the Near-RT RIC and one or more O-CU-CPs, one or more O-CU-UPs, and one or more O- DUs. E2 Node: A logical node terminating E2 interface. In the present document, O-RAN nodes terminating E2 interface are:
- for NR access: O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU or any combination.
- for E-UTRA access: O-eNB.
FCAPS: Fault, Configuration, Accounting, Performance, Security. Near-RT RIC: O-RAN Near-Real-Time RAN Intelligent Controller: A logical function that enables near-real-time control and optimization of RAN elements and resources via fine-grained data collection and actions over E2 interface. Non-RT RIC: O-RAN Non-Real-Time RAN Intelligent Controller: A logical function that enables non-real-time control and optimization of RAN elements and resources, AI/ML workflow including model training and updates, and policy- based guidance of applications/features in Near-RT RIC. NMS: A Network Management System. Network Service: Composition of network function(s) and/or network service(s), as specified in ETSI GS NFV 003 [11]. Network Slice: A network slice is a set of run-time network functions, and resources to run these network functions, forming a complete instantiated logical network to meet certain network characteristics required by the service instance(s). See reference NGMN 5G P1 Description of a Network Slice [i.11]. Network Slice Instance (NSI): A Managed Object Instance (MOI) of NetworkSlice IOC as specified in 3GPP TS 28.530 [23]. NetworkSliceSubnet Instance (NSSI): A Managed Object Instance (MOI) of NetworkSliceSubnet IOC as specified in 3GPP TS 28.530 [23]. O-CU-CP: O-RAN Central Unit – Control Plane: A logical node hosting the RRC and the control plane part of the PDCP protocol. O-CU-UP: O-RAN Central Unit – User Plane: A logical node hosting the user plane part of the PDCP protocol and the SDAP protocol. O-DU: O-RAN Distributed Unit: A logical node hosting RLC/MAC/High-PHY layers based on a lower layer functional split. O-RU: O-RAN Radio Unit: A logical node hosting Low-PHY layer and RF processing based on a lower layer functional split. O1: Interface between the Service Management and Orchestration framework and O-RAN managed elements O2: Interface between the Service Management and Orchestration framework and the O-Cloud RAN: Generally referred as Radio Access Network. In terms of this document, any component below Near-RT RIC per O-RAN architecture, including O-CU-CP/O-CU-UP/O-DU/O-RU. Resource isolation: Regime of resource management when a resource used by one network slice instance cannot be shared with another network slice instance. See 3GPP TR 28.801 [i.3]. Single Network Slice Selection Assistance Information (S-NSSAI): An S-NSSAI is comprised of an SST (Slice/Service type) and an optional SD (Slice Differentiator) field (3GPP TS 28.541 [7], clause 4.3.37).

## 3.2 Symbols
Void

## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations [given in [i.1] and the following] apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in [i.1]. DN Distinguished Name eNB eNodeB (applies to LTE) gNB gNodeB (applies to NR) KPI Key Performance Indicator KQI Key Quality Indicator Near-RT RIC O-RAN Near-Real-Time RIC NFMF Network Function Management Function Non-RT RIC O-RAN Non-Real-Time RIC NS Network Service NSMF Network Slice Management Function NSSMF Network Slice Subnet Management Function O-DU O-RAN Distributed Unit O-RU O-RAN Radio Unit PNF Physical Network Function PRB Physical Resource Block RIC O-RAN RAN Intelligent Controller RRM Radio Resource Management SD Slice Differentiator SDO Standards Developing Organizations (For ex: 3GPP, ETSI, ONAP, O-RAN) SMO Service and Management Orchestration SST Slice/Service Type VNF Virtual Network Function

# 4 Slicing overview
Network slicing is expected to play a critical role in 5G networks because of various use cases and services 5G will support. It allows a network operator to provide services tailored to customers’ requirements. Network slice is defined as a logical network with a bundle of specified network services over a common network infrastructure. A single physical network is sliced into multiple virtual networks that may support different service types over a single RAN. 3GPP has standardized 6 different service types: eMBB, URLLC, MioT, V2X, HMTC, and HDLCC as specified in 3GPP TS 23.501 [2]. 3GPP defined 5G architecture and procedures containing network slicing and related concepts in Release 15. Furthermore, management and orchestration of 5G networks featuring slicing was defined in the 3GPP specifications. Other standard groups e.g. GSMA, ETSI NFV-MANO, ETSI ZSM and ONAP focus on the different aspects of network slicing. Further information regarding network slicing and other SDO’s contributions was discussed in the Study on O-RAN Slicing Technical Report [i.4]. An example RAN slicing deployment of O-RAN network functions based on the select initial deployment option, option B as described in [i.15], is shown in figure 4-1, with some of the network functions shared between O-RAN slice subnets (such as O-CU-CP, O-DU, O-RU) and some network functions dedicated to a particular O-RAN slice subnet (such as O- CU-UP).

# 5 High-level O-RAN slicing use cases

## 5.1 O-RAN slicing use cases
This clause contains high-level O-RAN slicing use cases that O-RAN is expected to support. Slicing requirements are derived from the specified use cases.

## 5.2 O-RAN slice subnet management and provisioning use
cases Network slicing is conceived to be an end-to-end feature that includes the core network, transport network, and the RAN. Although 3GPP has started defining network slicing support with Release 15, slicing in O-RAN needs to be further addressed in line with 3GPP to achieve deployable network slicing in an open RAN environment. Management aspects of network slicing such as Network Slice Instances (NSI) and Network Slice Subnet Instances (NSSI) are specified in 3GPP TS 28.531 [4]. While NSI refers to an end-to-end network slice, NSSI refers to a part of an end-to-end network slice as a RAN slice subnet. The provisioning of network slicing includes the four phases which are preparation, commissioning, operation, and decommissioning. The NSI/NSSI provisioning operations shall include:
- Create an NSI/NSSI;
- Activate an NSI/NSSI;
- De-active an NSI/NSSI;
- Modify an NSI/NSSI;
- Terminate an NSI/NSSI.
Please refer to 3GPP TS 28.531 [4], clause 4.1 for further details of NSI and NSSI lifecycle management and provisioning. The following clauses define the use cases and procedures necessary for O-RAN slice subnet management that is in-line with 3GPP slice management framework. For this purpose, use cases such as slice subnet creation, activation, modification, deactivation, termination, configuration, and feasibility check are utilized by O-RAN architecture.

### 5.2.1 O-RAN slice subnet instance creation
The context of the O-RAN slice subnet instance creation use case is captured in table 5.2.1-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Creation of a new O-RAN network slice subnet instance (O-NSSI) or use an Goal existing O-NSSI to satisfy the O-RAN slice subnet related requirements (3GPP TS 28.531 [4], clause 5.1.2). NSSMS_C, such as NSMF, who acts as the network slice subnet management service consumer. NSSMS_P, such as NSSMF, who acts as the network slice subnet management service provider. NFMS_P, such as SMO OAM functions or NFMF, who acts as the network function management service provider. Actors and Roles O-Cloud M&O, who acts as the O-Cloud management and orchestration provider within SMO. Non-RT RIC O-RAN Network Functions: NFs such as Near-RT RIC, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O- DU and O-RU. NSSMS_P has the knowledge of O-Cloud M&O to manage the lifecycle of VNFs Assumptions and interconnection between the VNFs and PNFs. VNF packages for virtualized O-RAN network functions to be included in the O- Pre-conditions RAN slice subnet instance have been already on-boarded. NSSMS_P receives request for a network slice subnet instance. The request Begins when contains network slice subnet related requirements. NSSMS_P checks the feasibility of the request, based on the received network O-RAN slice Step 1 (M) slice subnet related requirements. subnet feasibility check Step 2 (M) NSSMS_P decides to create a new O-NSSI or use an existing O-NSSI. If an existing O-NSSI is decided to be used, NSSMS_P should trigger modification of the existing O-NSSI to satisfy the network slice subnet related O-RAN slice requirements. subnet instance Step 3 (M) modification use Go to “Step 11”. case Otherwise, NSSMS_P triggers creation of a new O-NSSI, continue with Step 4 Step 4 (M) NSSMS_P derives the requirements for the constituent O-NSSI(s). If the required O-NSSI contains constituent O-NSSI(s) managed by other (O-RAN) slice NSSMS_P(s), NSSMS_P may trigger creation of respective constituent O- subnet instance NSSI(s) through other NSSMS_P(s) which manages the constituent O- creation use case NSSI(s). (to create Step 5 (O) constituent In that case, NSSMS_P receives the constituent O-NSSI information from the (O-)NSSI(s) other NSSMS_P(s) and associates the constituent O-NSSI(s) with the required managed by other O-NSSI. NSSMS_P(s)) NSSMS_P determines the service-related requirements and triggers a service Step 6 (M) request to O-Cloud M&O for instantiation of virtual O-RAN network functions and virtual links within the determined O-Cloud(s). <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Based on the service request, O-Cloud M&O performs corresponding NF instantiation procedures and virtual link establishment. NSSMS_P associates the service response received from O-Cloud M&O with Step 7 (M) the corresponding O-NSSI. NSSMS_P uses (O-RAN) NF provisioning service exposed by NFMS_P to Step 8 (M) configure (O-)NSSI constituents. NSSMS_P configures the O-NSSI MOI with each constituent (O-)NSSI MOI Step 9 (M) identifier. NSSMS_P triggers O-RAN TN manager coordination procedure to establish Step 10 (M) necessary links such as for A1, E2, and midhaul and fronthaul connectivity. NSSMS_P notifies Non-RT RIC with network slice subnet requirements and Step 11 (M) respective O-NSSI information. NSSMS_P notifies NSSMS_C with the resulting status of this process and Step 12 (M) relevant O-NSSI information. O-RAN O-NSSI and relevant O-RAN NFs are created, and Non-RT RIC is Ends when configured with slice requirements and O-NSSI information. Exceptions One of the steps identified above fails. Post Conditions O-NSSI is ready to satisfy the network slice subnet related requirements. Traceability REQ-SL-FUN14, REQ-SL-FUN20 - REQ-SL-FUN27

### 5.2.2 O-RAN slice subnet instance activation
The context of the O-RAN slice subnet instance activation use case is captured in table 5.2.2-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Activation of an O-RAN network slice subnet instance (O-NSSI) (3GPP TS Goal 28.531 [4], clause 5.1.10). NSSMS_C, such as NSMF, who acts as the network slice subnet management service consumer. NSSMS_P, such as NSSMF, who acts as the network slice subnet management service provider. Actors and Roles NFMS_P, such as SMO OAM functions or NFMF, who acts as the network function management service provider. O-RAN network functions: NFs such as Near-RT RIC, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O- DU and O-RU. Assumptions NSSMS_P is providing services to authorized consumers. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use An O-NSSI has already been created and it is inactive. As an example, the O-NSSI may contain inactive O-RAN NFs:- Near-RT RIC is installed and active
- O-CU-CP installed (i.e. operationalState = enabled), but not yet
activated (i.e. administrativeState = locked).
- O-CU-UP installed (i.e. operationalState = enabled), but not yet
Pre-conditions activated (i.e. administrativeState = locked).
- O-DU installed (i.e. operationalState = enabled), but not yet activated
(i.e. administrativeState = locked) (3GPP TS 28.541 [7], figure B.2.1).
- O-RU physically installed (i.e. operationalState = enabled), but not
yet activated (i.e. administrativeState = locked). See NOTE 1. NSSMS_P decides to activate the O-NSSI based on the received network slice Begins when subnet related request from its authorized consumer NSSMS_C. NSSMS_P receives a request from NSSMS_C to activate the O-NSSI (via O- NSSI provisioning service with operation modifyMOIAttributes (3GPP TS Step 1 (M) 28.531 [4], table 6.2-1) to change administrativeState of the O-NSSI to unlocked.) NSSMS_P identifies the inactive constituents within the O-NSSI and decides to As an example, NSSMS_P activates the following inactive O-RAN NF constituents:
- the O-CU-CP NF constituent, and invokes NF provisioning service with
operation modifyMOIAttributes (3GPP TS 28.531 [4], table 6.3-1) to request NFMS_P to activate the O-CU-CP by changing the administrativeState of the O-CU-CP to unlocked. See NOTE 2. Step 2 (M)
- the O-CU-UP NF constituent, and invokes NF provisioning service with
operation modifyMOIAttributes (3GPP TS 28.531 [4], table 6.3-1) to request NFMS_P to activate the O-CU-UP by changing the administrativeState of the O-CU-UP to unlocked. See NOTE 3, NOTE 4.
- the O-DU NF constituent, and invokes NF provisioning service with
operation modifyMOIAttributes (3GPP TS 28.531 [4], table 6.3-1) to request NFMS_P to activate the O-DU by changing the administrativeState of the O-DU to unlocked. See NOTE 5, NOTE 6. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use
- the O-RU NF constituent, and invokes NF provisioning service with
operation modifyMOIAttributes (3GPP TS 28.531 [4], table 6.3-1) to request NFMS_P to activate the O-RU by changing the administrativeState of the O-RU to unlocked. See NOTE 7. NSSMS_P receives notifications indicating that all inactive O-NSSI constituents are activated. (NSSMS_P is notified by respective NFMS_P(s) through NF Step 3 (M) provisioning data report service with notification notifyMOIAttributeValueChanges (3GPP TS 28.531 [4], table 6.3-1) that the O- CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU and O-RU have been activated.) NSSMS_P changes administrativeState of the O-NSSI to unlocked, and invokes O-NSSI provisioning data report service with notification Step 4 (M) notifyMOIAttributeValueChanges (3GPP TS 28.531 [4], table 6.2-1) to notify NSSMS_C that the O-NSSI has been activated. Ends when O-RAN O-NSSI is activated. Exceptions One of the steps identified above fails. Post Conditions O-NSSI is in operation. Traceability REQ-SL-FUN25, REQ-SL-FUN28
> NOTE 1: The O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU and O-RU are not shared by other O-NSSI, since they are not yet activated.
Near-RT RIC has already been activated for other services.
> NOTE 2: O-CU-CP triggers establishment of the E2 interface connection with Near-RT RIC.
> NOTE 3: O-CU-UP triggers establishment of the E2 interface connection with Near-RT RIC.
> NOTE 4: E1 interface connection will be established between O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP.
> NOTE 5: O-DU triggers establishment of the F1 interface connection with O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP, (3GPP TS 28.541
[7], Annex A.1).
> NOTE 6: O-DU triggers establishment of the E2 interface connection with Near-RT RIC.
> NOTE 7: O-RU triggers establishment of the M plane interface connection with O-DU (O-RAN.WG1.O1-Interface.0-
v04.00 [13]).

### 5.2.3 O-RAN slice subnet instance modification
The context of the O-RAN slice subnet instance modification use case is captured in table 5.2.3-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Modification of an existing O-NSSI to satisfy O-RAN slice subnet related Goal requirements (3GPP TS 28.531 [4], clause 5.1.9). <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use NSSMS_C, such as NSMF, who acts as the network slice subnet management service consumer. NSSMS_P, such as NSSMF, who acts as the network slice subnet management service provider. NFMS_P, such as SMO OAM functions or NFMF, who acts as the network function management service provider. Actors and Roles O-Cloud M&O, who acts as the O-Cloud management and orchestration provider within SMO. Non-RT RIC O-RAN network functions: NFs such as Near-RT RIC, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O- DU and O-RU. NSSMS_P has the knowledge of O-Cloud M&O to manage the lifecycle of VNFs Assumptions and interconnection between the VNFs and PNFs. VNF packages for virtualized O-RAN network functions to be included in the O- Pre-conditions RAN slice subnet instance have been already on-boarded. NSSMS_P receives request for a modification of an existing O-NSSI. The Begins when request contains new network slice subnet related requirements. NSSMS_P checks the feasibility of the request, based on the received network O-RAN slice Step 1 (M) slice subnet related modification requirements. If the modification requirements subnet can be satisfied, go to step 2, else go to step 8. feasibility check NSSMS_P decomposes the O-NSSI modification request into modification Step 2 (M) requests for each (O-)NSSI constituent. (O-RAN) slice If the required O-NSSI contains constituent (O-)NSSI(s) managed by other subnet instance NSSMS_P(s), NSSMS_P may trigger modification of respective constituent modification use (O-)NSSI(s) through other NSSMS_P(s) which manages the constituent case (to modify (O-)NSSI(s). Step 3 (O) constituent (O-)NSSI(s) In that case, NSSMS_P receives the constituent (O-)NSSI information from the managed by other NSSMS_P(s) and associates the constituent (O-)NSSI(s) with the other required O-NSSI. NSSMS_P(s)) If the O-NSSI contains virtualized part(s), NSSMS_P triggers a service modification request to O-Cloud M&O for scaling, updating, instantiation etc. of Step 4 (O) virtual O-RAN network functions and virtual links within the determined O- Cloud(s). If the O-NSSI consists of NF instances, NSSMS_P uses NF provisioning service Step 5 (O) exposed by NFMS_P to (re-)configure (O-)NSSI constituents. If the O-NSSI contains TN part, NSSMS_P triggers O-RAN TN manager Step 6 (O) coordination procedure to establish/modify necessary links such as for A1, E2, midhaul and fronthaul connectivity. NSSMS_P notifies Non-RT RIC with the updated network slice subnet Step 7 (M) requirements and respective O-NSSI information. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use NSSMS_P notifies NSSMS_C with the resulting status of this process and Step 8 (M) relevant O-NSSI information. O-RAN O-NSSI and relevant O-RAN NFs are modified, and Non-RT RIC is Ends when configured with modified slice requirements and O-NSSI information. Exceptions One of the steps identified above fails. O-NSSI is ready to satisfy the updated network slice subnet related Post Conditions requirements. Traceability REQ-SL-FUN24 - REQ-SL-FUN27, REQ-SL-FUN29, REQ-SL-FUN30

### 5.2.4 O-RAN slice subnet instance deactivation
The context of the O-RAN slice subnet instance deactivation use case is captured in table 5.2.4-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Deactivation of an O-RAN network slice subnet instance (O-NSSI) (3GPP TS Goal 28.531 [4], clause 5.1.11). NSSMS_C, such as NSMF, who acts as the network slice subnet management service consumer. NSSMS_P, such as NSSMF, who acts as the network slice subnet management service provider. Actors and Roles NFMS_P, such as SMO OAM functions or NFMF, who acts as the network function management service provider. O-RAN network functions: NFs such as Near-RT RIC, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O- DU and O-RU. Assumptions NSSMS_P is providing services to authorized consumers. An O-NSSI has already and it is in active state. Pre-conditions As an example, the existing O-NSSI includes active O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU and O-RU O-RAN NFs, where the administrativeState is unlocked (3GPP TS 28.541 [7], figure B.2.1). See NOTE 1. NSSMS_C decides to deactivate the O-NSSI based on the received network Begins when slice subnet related request from its authorized consumer NSSMS_C. NSSMS_P receives a request from NSSMS_C to deactivate the O-NSSI (via O- NSSI provisioning service with operation modifyMOIAttributes (3GPP TS Step 1 (M) 28.531 [4], table 6.2-1) to request NSSMS_P to deactivate the O-NSSI that is to change administrativeState of the O-NSSI to locked). NSSMS_P identifies active constituents (e.g. O-NSSI, NF) of the O-NSSI and Step 2 (M) decides to deactivate those constituents. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use As an example, NSSMS_P finds that the O-NSSI contains active non-shared O- RAN NFs:
- the O-CU-CP NF constituent, and invokes NF provisioning service with
operation modifyMOIAttributes (3GPP TS 28.531 [4], table 6.3-1) to request NFMS_P to deactivate the O-CU-CP by changing the administrativeState of the O-CU-CP to locked. See NOTE 2, NOTE 3.
- the O-CU-UP NF constituent, and invokes NF provisioning service with
operation modifyMOIAttributes (3GPP TS 28.531 [4], table 6.3-1) to request NFMS_P to deactivate the O-CU-UP by changing the administrativeState of the O-CU-UP to locked. See NOTE 4.
- the O-DU NF constituent, and invokes NF provisioning service with
operation modifyMOIAttributes (3GPP TS 28.531 [4], table 6.3-1) to request NFMS_P to deactivate the O-DU by changing the administrativeState of the O-DU to locked. See NOTE 5, NOTE 6.
- the O-RU constituent, and invokes NF provisioning service with operation
modifyMOIAttributes (3GPP TS 28.531 [4], table 6.3-1) to request NFMS_P to deactivate the O-RU by changing the administrativeState of the O-RU to locked. See NOTE 7. NSSMS_P receives notifications indicating that all active non-shared O-NSSI constituents are deactivated. Step 3 (M) (NSSMS_P is notified by respective NFMS_P(s) which invoke NF provisioning data report service with notification notifyMOIAttributeValueChanges (3GPP TS 28.531 [4], table 6.3-1) to notify that the O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU and O-RU have been deactivated.) NSSMS_P changes administrativeState of the O-NSSI to locked, and invokes O-NSSI provisioning data report service with notification Step 4 (M) notifyMOIAttributeValueChanges (3GPP TS 28.531 [4], table 6.2-1) to notify NSSMS_C that the O-NSSI has been deactivated. Ends when O-RAN O-NSSI is deactivated. Exceptions One of the steps identified above fails. Post Conditions O-NSSI is inactive. Traceability REQ-SL-FUN25, REQ-SL-FUN31
> NOTE 1: The O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU and O-RU are not shared by other O-NSSI.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use
> NOTE 2: O-CU-CP triggers termination of the E2 interface connection with Near-RT RIC.
> NOTE 3: E1 interface connection will be released between O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP.
> NOTE 4: O-CU-UP triggers termination of the E2 interface connection with Near-RT RIC.
> NOTE 5: O-DU triggers termination of the F1 interface connection with O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP (3GPP TS 28.541 [7],


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG1.TS.Use-Cases-Detailed-Specification-R004-v18.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG1.TS.Use-Cases-Detailed-Specification-R004-v18.00 Technical Specification O-RAN Work Group 1 (Use Cases and Overall Architecture) Use Cases Detailed Specification"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions [given in [i.1] and the following] apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in [i.1]. A1: Interface between Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC to enable policy-driven guidance of Near-RT RIC applications/functions, and support AI/ML workflow. A1 policy: Type of declarative policies expressed using formal statements that enable the Non-RT RIC function in the SMO to guide the Near-RT RIC function, and hence the RAN, towards better fulfilment of the RAN intent. A1 enrichment information: Information utilized by Near-RT RIC that is collected or derived at SMO/Non-RT RIC either from non-network data sources or from network functions themselves. E2: Interface connecting the Near-RT RIC and one or more O-CU-CPs, one or more O-CU-UPs, and one or more O- DUs. E2 node: A logical node terminating E2 interface. In the present document, O-RAN nodes terminating E2 interface are:
- for NR access: O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU or any combination.
- for E-UTRA access: O-eNB.
FCAPS: Fault, Configuration, Accounting, Performance, Security. Intents: A declarative policy to steer or guide the behavior of RAN functions, allowing the RAN function to calculate the optimal result to achieve stated objective. Near-RT RIC: O-RAN Near-Real-Time RAN Intelligent Controller: A logical function that enables near-real-time control and optimization of RAN elements and resources via fine-grained data collection and actions over E2 interface. Non-RT RIC: O-RAN Non-Real-Time RAN Intelligent Controller: A logical function that enables non-real-time control and optimization of RAN elements and resources, AI/ML workflow including model training and updates, and policy- based guidance of applications/features in Near-RT RIC. O-CU: O-RAN Central Unit: A logical node hosting O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP. O-CU-CP: O-RAN Central Unit – Control Plane: A logical node hosting the RRC and the control plane part of the PDCP protocol. O-CU-UP: O-RAN Central Unit – User Plane: A logical node hosting the user plane part of the PDCP protocol and the SDAP protocol. O-DU: O-RAN Distributed Unit: A logical node hosting RLC/MAC/High-PHY layers based on a lower layer functional split. O-RU: O-RAN Radio Unit: A logical node hosting Low-PHY layer and RF processing based on a lower layer functional split. This is similar to 3GPP’s “TRP” or “RRH” but more specific in including the Low-PHY layer (FFT/iFFT, PRACH extraction). O1: Interface between management entities (SMO/EMS/MANO) and O-RAN managed elements, for operation and management, by which FCAPS management, software management, file management can be achieved. O2: Interface between management entities and the O-Cloud for supporting O-RAN virtual network functions. RAN: Generally referred as Radio Access Network. In terms of this document, any component below Near-RT RIC per O-RAN architecture, including O-CU/O-DU/O-RU. Shared O-RU: An O-RU that is able to be configured to operate with one or more O-DUs operated by one or more mobile network operators.

## 3.2 Symbols
Void

## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations [given in [i.1] and the following] apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in [i.1]. AI/ML Artificial Intelligence/Machine Learning AISG Antenna Interface Standards Group CAM Cooperative Awareness Message DENM Decentralized Environmental Notification Message eNB eNodeB (applies to LTE) gNB gNodeB (applies to NR) KPI Key Performance Indicator MIMO Multiple Input, Multiple Output mTLS Multiplexed Transport Layer Security NACM NETCONF Access Control Model NRT Neighbor Relation Table O-CU O-RAN Central Unit O-DU O-RAN Distributed Unit O-RU O-RAN Radio Unit PRB Physical Resource Block QoE Quality of Experience RAN Radio Access Network RIC O-RAN RAN Intelligent Controller SINR Signal-to-Interference-plus-Noise Ratio SMO Service Management and Orchestration TLS Transport Layer Security UAV Unmanned Aerial Vehicle V2X Vehicle to Everything

# 4 Use cases

## 4.1 Context-based dynamic HO management for V2X
This use case provides the background, motivation, and requirements for the context-based dynamic HO management for V2X use case, allowing operators to adjust radio resource allocation policies through the O-RAN architecture, reducing latency and improving radio resource utilization.

### 4.1.1 Background and goal of the use case
V2X communication allows for numerous potential benefits such as increasing the overall road safety, reducing emissions, and saving time. Part of the V2X architecture is the V2X UE (SIM + device attached to vehicle) which communicates with the V2X Application Server (V2X AS). The exchanged information comprises Cooperative Awareness Messages (CAMs), (from UE to V2X AS) [15], radio cell IDs, connection IDs, and basic radio measurements (RSRP, RSPQ, etc.) As vehicles traverse along a highway, due to their high speed and the heterogeneous natural environment V2X UEs are handed over frequently, at times in a suboptimal way, which can cause handover (HO) anomalies: e.g., short stay, ping- pong, and remote cell. Such suboptimal HO sequences substantially impair the functionality of V2X applications. Since HO sequences are mainly determined by the Neighbour Relation Tables (NRTs), maintained by the xNBs, there is hardly room for UE-level customization. This UC aims to present a method to avoid and/or resolve problematic HO scenarios by using past navigation and radio statistics in order to customize HO sequences on a UE level. To this end, the AI/ML functionality that is enabled by the Near-RT RIC is employed.

### 4.1.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case
1) Non-RT RIC: a) Retrieve necessary performance, configuration, and other data for constructing/training relevant AI/ML models that will be deployed in Near-RT RIC to assist in the V2X HO management function. For example, this could be a clustering algorithm that classifies traffic situations and radio conditions that (probably) do or do not lead to HO anomalies. b) Support deployment and update of AI/ML models into Near-RT RIC xApp. c) Support communication of intents and policies (system-level and UE-level) from Non-RT RIC to Near-RT RIC. d) Support communication of non-RAN data to enrich control functions in Near-RT RIC (enrichment data). 2) Near-RT RIC: a) Support update of AI/ML models retrieved from Non-RT RIC. b) Support interpretation and execution of intents and policies from Non-RT RIC. c) Support necessary performance, configuration, and other data for defining and updating intents and policies for tuning relevant AI/ML models. d) Support communication of configuration parameters to RAN. 3) RAN: a) Support data collection with required granularity to SMO over O1 interface. b) Support near-real-time configuration-based optimization of HO parameters over E2 interface. c) Report necessary performance, configuration, and other data for performing real-time V2X HO optimization in the Near-RT RIC over E2 interface. 4) V2X application server: a) Support data collection with required granularity from V2X UE over V1 interface. b) Support communication of real-time traffic related data about V2X UE to Non-RT RIC as enrichment data.

### 4.1.3 Solutions

#### 4.1.3.1 Context-based dynamic handover management for V2X
The context of the context-based dynamic handover management for V2X use case is captured in table 4.1.3.1-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Drive V2X UE HOs in RAN according to defined intents, policies, and Goal configuration while enabling AI/ML-based solutions. Non-RT RIC: RAN policy control function. Near-RT RIC: RAN policy enforcement function. Actors and Roles RAN: Policy enforcement for configuration updates. SMO: Termination point for O1 interface. V2X AS: Termination point for V1 interface and enrichment data provider. All relevant functions and components are instantiated. Assumptions A1, O1, E2 interface connectivity is established. Network is operational. SMO has established the data collection and sharing process, and Non-RT RIC has access to this data. Pre-conditions Non-RT RIC analyzes the historical data from RAN and V2X AS for training the relevant AI/ML models to be deployed or updated in the Near-RT RIC, as well as AI/ML models required for real-time optimization of configuration and policies. Begins when Operator specified trigger condition or event is detected. Non-RT RIC deploys/updates the AI/ML model in the Near-RT RIC via O1 or Step 1 (M) Non-RT RIC assigns/update the AI/ML model for the Near-RT RIC xApp via A1. Non-RT RIC communicates relevant policies/intents and enrichment data to the Near-RT RIC over the A1 interface. The enrichment data from the non-RAN data Step 2 (M) can include V2X UE location, trajectory, navigation information, GPS data, CAMs, DENMs. The Near-RT RIC receives the relevant info from the Non-RT RIC over the A1 Step 3 (M) interface and from the RAN over the E2 interface, interprets the policies and updates the AI/ML models. The Near-RT RIC infers optimal RAN configuration (UE-specific NRTs) Step 4 (M) according to the trained AI/ML models and communicates the result to the RAN over E2 interface. RAN deploys the configuration received from the Near-RT RIC over the E2 Step 5 (M) interface. Step 4 If required, Non-RT RIC can configure specific performance measurement data to be collected from RAN to assess the performance of the V2X HO <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use management function in Near-RT RIC, or to assess the outcome of the applied policies and configuration. Ends when Operator specified trigger condition or event is satisfied. Exceptions None identified. Non-RT RIC monitors the performance of the V2X HO related function in Near- RT RIC by collecting and monitoring the relevant performance KPIs and Post Conditions counters from the RAN and the V2X AS. The flow diagram of the context-based dynamic handover management for V2X use case is given in figure 4.1.3.1-1.

### 4.1.4 Required data
The measurement counters and KPIs (as defined by 3GPP) shall be appropriately aggregated by cell, QoS type, slice, etc. 1) Measurement reports with RSRP/RSRQ/CQI information for serving and neighboring cells. 2) UE connection and mobility/handover statistics with indication of successful and failed handovers and error codes etc. 3) V2X related data: position, velocity, direction, navigation data, CAMs, DENMs as specified in ETSI EN 302 637-3 [16] and in [i.5].

## 4.2 Flight path based dynamic UAV radio resource allocation
This use case provides the background, motivation, and requirements for the support the use case of flight path based dynamic UAV radio resource allocation, allowing operators to adjust radio resource allocation policies through the O- RAN architecture, reducing unnecessary handover and improving radio resource utilization.

### 4.2.1 Background and goal of the use case
The field trials’ results show that the coverage for low altitude is good and can provide various services for terrestrial UEs with good performance. However, since the site along the flight is mainly for terrestrial UEs, the altitude of the UAV is always not within the main lobe of the ground station antenna. And the side lobes give rise to the phenomenon of scattered cell associations particularly noticeable in the sky. The cell association pattern on the ground is ideally contiguous area where the best cell is most often the one closest to the UE. As the UE move up in height, the antenna side lobes start to be visible, and there is a possibility of the best cell no longer being the closest one. The cell association pattern in this particular scenario becomes fragmented especially at the height of 300m and above. Hence, at higher altitudes, several challenges that lead to a different radio environment are: a) LOS propagation/uplink interference b) Poor KPI caused by antenna side lobes for base stations c) Sudden drop in signal strength These challenges directly impact on the mobility performance of the drone and the service experience of the user. Hence, we would like to support the use case of flight path based dynamic UAV radio resource allocation to resolve the above issues. Non-Real-Time RIC can retrieve necessary of aerial vehicles related measurement metrics from network based on UE’s measurement report and SMO, and flight path information of aerial vehicle, climate information, flight forbidden/limitation area information and space load information etc. from application, e.g., UTM (Unmanned Traffic Management) for constructing/training relevant AI/ML model that will be deployed in RAN. For example, this could be UL/DL interference from/to aerial vehicles, the detection of aerial vehicle UEs, and available radio resource (e.g., frequency, cell, beam, BWP, numerology) prediction. And the Near-Real-Time RIC can support deployment and execution of AI/ML models from Non-RT RIC. Based on this, the Near-Real-Time RIC can perform the radio resource allocation for on-demand coverage for UAV considering the radio channel condition, flight path information and other application information. The architectural context of the flight path based dynamic UAV radio resource allocation use case is shown in figure 4.2.1-1. Since there is no effective functional module in current eNB/gNB to retrieve the application information, perform machine learning and training based on both the acquired application information and radio environment information, and execute AI/ML models based on above information. And in the O-RAN architecture, the flight path based dynamic UAV radio resource allocation mechanism can be supported by the RIC function module, i.e., Non-Real-Time RIC and Near-Real- Time RIC. Therefore, we provide the description of O-RAN support use case for flight path based dynamic UAV radio resource.

### 4.2.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case
1) Non-RT RIC: a) Retrieve necessary of O-RAN support for aerial vehicles related measurement metrics from network level measurement report and SMO (can acquire data from application) for constructing/training relevant AI/ML model that will be deployed in Near-RT RIC to assist in the O-RAN support for aerial vehicles function. For example, this could be UL/DL interference from/to aerial vehicles, the detection of aerial vehicle UEs, and available radio resource (e.g. frequency, cell, beam, BWP, numerology) prediction. b) Training of potential ML models for O-RAN support for aerial vehicles, which can respectively autonomously control UL/DL interference from/to aerial vehicles, detect the UE of aerial vehicles, and predict available radio resource (e.g. frequency, cell, beam, BWP, numerology) for aerial vehicles. c) Send policies/intents to Near-RT RIC to drive the O-RAN support for aerial vehicles at RAN level in terms of expected behavior. 2) Near-RT RIC: a) Support update of AI/ML models from Non-RT RIC. b) Support execution of the AI/ML models from Non-RT RIC. c) Support interpretation and execution of intents and policies from Non-RT RIC to derive O-RAN support for aerial vehicles at RAN level in terms of expected behavior. d) Support perform the radio resource allocation for on-demand coverage for UAV considering the radio channel condition, flight path information and other application information via the AI/ML models from Non-RT RIC. e) Sending aerial vehicles performance report to Non-RT RIC for evaluation and optimization. 3) RAN: a) Support data collection with UE performance report over O1 interface. b) Support non-real-time optimization of radio resources allocation parameters over O1 interface. 4) Application server: a) Provide application information, e.g. flight path information of aerial vehicle, climate information, flight forbidden/limitation area information and space load information.

### 4.2.3 Solutions

#### 4.2.3.1 Flight path based dynamic UAV radio resource allocation
The context of the flight path based dynamic UAV radio resource allocation use case is captured in table 4.2.3.1-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use In the O-RAN architecture, the flight path based dynamic UAV radio resource allocation mechanism can be supported, which can perform the radio resource Goal allocation for on-demand coverage for UAV considering the radio channel condition, flight path information and other application information. Non-RT RIC: RAN policy control function. Near-RT RIC: RAN policy enforcement function. Actors and Roles RAN: Implementation of updated configuration parameters. Application server: Generates RAN side UE-level policies. All relevant functions and components are instantiated. Assumptions A1/O1 interface connectivity is established with Non-RT RIC. Near-RT RIC and Non-RT RIC are instantiated with A1 interface connectivity being established between them. Pre-conditions A certificate is shared between Near-RT RIC and Non-RT RIC for model related data exchange. E2 interface is established between Near-RT RIC and CU/DU. Begins when Operator specified trigger condition or event is detected. Step 1 (M) Application server sends the application data to Non-RT RIC. Non-RT RIC deploys/updates AI/ML models in the Near-RT RIC via O1 or Non- Step 2 (M) RT RIC assigns/update the AI/ML model for the Near-RT RIC xApp via A1. Non-RT RIC sends relevant policies/intents and enrichment data to the Near- Step 3 (M) RT RIC over the A1 interface. The Near-RT RIC receives the relevant info from the Non-RT RIC over the A1 interface and from the RAN over the E2 interface, interprets the policies and updates the AI/ML models. Step 4 (M) And the Near-RT RIC converts policy to specific configuration parameter commands. RAN executes the command to modify the configuration parameters RAN Step 5 (M) executes the command to modify the configuration parameters. Ends when Operator specified trigger condition or event is satisfied. Exceptions None identified. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Non-RT RIC collects relevant performance data from eNB/gNB, to observe the Post Conditions data transmission performance improvement brought by the wireless resource configuration optimization policy. The flow diagram of the flight path based dynamic UAV radio resource allocation use case is given in figure 4.2.3.1-1.

### 4.2.4 Required data
Multi-dimensional data are expected to be retrieved for AI/ML model training and policies generation. 1) Network level measurement report, including: a) UE level radio channel information, mobility related metrics b) UE level location information 2) Aerial vehicles related measurement metrics collected from SMO (can acquire data from application or network, e.g., flight path information of aerial vehicle, climate information, flight forbidden/limitation area information and space load information).

## 4.3 Radio resource allocation for UAV application scenario
This use case provides the background, motivation, and requirements for the UAV control vehicle use case, allowing operators to adjust radio resource allocation policies through the O-RAN architecture, reducing latency and improving radio resource utilization.

### 4.3.1 Background and goal of the use case
As shown in figure 4.3.1-1, this scenario refers to a rotor UAV flying at low altitude and low speed, and carrying cameras, sensors and other devices mounted. The operation terminals work in the 5.8GHz to remote control the UAV for border/forest inspection, high voltage/base station inspection, field mapping, pollution sampling, and HD live broadcast. At the same time, the UAV mobile control stations and the anti-UAV weapons jointly provide the service of fighting against illegal UAVs to ensure low-altitude safety in special areas. The UAV operation terminals, the anti-UAV weapons, and the UAV mobile control stations are connected with the UAV control vehicle using 5G network. UAV control vehicle deploys network equipment, including O-CU, O-DU, the Non-RT RIC function modules and application server (in this use case it is an edge computing service platform) to provide reliable network services through 5G networks. The data transmitted over the network includes control data and application data. The control data includes navigation commands, configuration changes, flight status data reporting, etc. Control data requires low latency and low bandwidth requirements. The application data includes 4K high-definition video data, which has obvious uplink and downlink service asymmetry, and the uplink has high requirements on network bandwidth. The UAV control vehicle deploys edge computing services on the 5G gNB side to implement local processing of video and control information. At the same time, real-time data services can be provided with the third-party applications by a video server. The Near-RT RIC function module provides radio resource management functions of the gNB side. The 5G network supports real-time high-definition video transmission and remote low-latency control of UAV, and finally provides various industry services such as inspection, security, surveying, and mapping. In the UAV control vehicle application scenario, there are a small amount of control data interaction requirements between the terminal and the network interaction, as well as the large bandwidth requirements for uploading HD video. The service asymmetry raises new requirements for resource allocation of the gNB. At the same time, the existing network operation and maintenance management platform (OSS system) can only optimize the parameters of a specific group of UEs, but not individual users. In the O-RAN architecture, the radio resource requirements for different terminals are sent to the gNB for execution by means of the RIC function module. The UAV control vehicle has flexible layout features. In this use case, the application service and content are deployed on the edge computing platform instead of the core network; the RIC function module is used to schedule radio resources instead of the core network's QoS mechanism. In this way, the load and overhead of the core network can be reduced, the forwarding and processing time of data transmission can be reduced. As shown in figure 4.3.1-2, this scenario involves two options of network architecture. Option A is that gNB and Near- RT RIC are deployed on the control vehicle, Non-RT RIC and core network are deployed on the central cloud. The control vehicle is connected to the core network and Non-RT RIC via fiber optics. Option B is a private network, all the modules, including the gNB, Near-RT RIC, Non-RT RIC and the necessary core network function modules, are deployed in the control vehicle.

### 4.3.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case
1) Non-RT RIC: a) Support sending resource allocation requirements to Near-RT RIC. b) Support receiving UE-level radio resource adjustment requirements from the application server. c) Support communication between Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC with UE-level policies. 2) Near-RT RIC: a) Support for receiving resource allocation requests from Non-RT RIC. b) Support for the interpretation and execution of the resource allocation policies received from Non-RT RIC. c) Support communication with RAN of configuration parameters. 3) RAN: a) Support resource allocation requests from the Near-RT RIC. b) Support sending terminal registration information to RAN application server and Near-RT RIC. c) Support non-real-time optimization of radio resources allocation parameters over O1 interface. d) Support for adjustment of the resource configuration parameters for a specific UE. 4) Application server: a) Support receiving terminal registration information from E2 nodes via SMO. b) Support collection of user plane data uploaded from RAN. c) Support sending UE-level radio resource adjustment requirements to Non-RT RIC.

### 4.3.3 Solutions

#### 4.3.3.1 UAV control vehicle
The context of the UAV control vehicle use case is captured in table 4.3.3.1-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use In the UAV control vehicle scenario, the UE-level radio resource configuration Goal optimization is achieved through the delivery of policies and configuration parameters. Non-RT RIC: RAN policy control function. Near-RT RIC: RAN policy enforcement function. Actors and Roles RAN: Implementation of updated configuration parameters. Application server: Generates UE-level resource allocation requirements. All relevant functions and components are instantiated. Assumptions A1/O1 interface connectivity is established with Non-RT RIC. The Non-RT RIC sends an instruction through the interface, informing the RAN to allocate the default resource, and establish the cell. Pre-conditions The RAN notifies the Near-RT RIC and application server of the accessed terminal (UE) information. Begins when Operator specified trigger condition or event is detected. Application server sends requirements of radio resource allocation adjustment to Non-RT RIC. Step 1 (M) This request can be sent at any time, or it can be sent at regular intervals. Non-RT RIC converts the requirements to resource adjustment policy and Step 2 (M) distributes the policy to the Near-RT RIC. Step 3 (M) Near-RT RIC converts policy to specific configuration parameter commands. Step 4 (M) RAN executes the command to modify the configuration parameters. Step 5 (M) The specified UE adjusts the uplink rate. Ends when Operator specified trigger condition or event is satisfied. Exceptions None identified. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Post Conditions The RAN operates using the newly deployed parameters/models. The flow diagram of the UAV control vehicle use case is given in figure 4.3.3.1-1.

### 4.3.4 Required data
Multi-dimensional data are expected to be retrieved for policy generation and performance improvements brought by the policy: 1) The number of terminals accessed, the identification information such as a UE ID that distinguishes each UAV connected with UAV the control vehicle, and the resource information assigned by default. 2) UE-level radio resource allocation information, such as the number of PRB resources used in PDSCH/PUSCH scheduling.

## 4.4 QoE optimization
This use case provides the background and motivation for the O-RAN architecture to support real-time QoE optimization. Moreover, some high-level description and requirements over Non-RT RIC, A1 and E2 interfaces are introduced.

### 4.4.1 Background and goal of the use case
The highly demanding 5G native applications like cloud VR are both bandwidth consuming and latency sensitive. However, for such traffic-intensive and highly interactive applications, current semi-static QoS framework cannot efficiently satisfy diversified QoE requirements especially taking into account potentially significant fluctuation of radio transmission capability. It is expected that QoE estimation/prediction from application level can help deal with such uncertainty and improve the efficiency of radio resources, and eventually improve user experience. RAN analytics information as RAN service can be exposed to an external application or MEC. It is envisioned to be helpful for the application to improve the user experience. The main objective is to ensure QoE optimization be supported within the O-RAN architecture and its open interfaces. Multi-dimensional data, e.g., user traffic data, QoE measurements, network measurement report, can be acquired and processed via ML algorithms to support traffic recognition, QoE prediction, QoS enforcement decisions. ML models can be trained offline and model inference will be executed in a real-time manner. Focus should be on a general solution that would support any specific QoE use case (e.g., cloud VR, video, etc.).

### 4.4.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case
1) Non-RT RIC: a) Retrieve necessary QoE related measurement metrics from network level measurement report and SMO (can acquire data from application) for constructing/training relevant AI/ML model that will be deployed in Near- RT RIC to assist in the QoE optimization function. For example, this could be application classification, QoE prediction, and available bandwidth prediction. b) Training of potential ML models for predictive QoE optimization, which can respectively autonomously recognize traffic types, predict quality of experience, or predict available radio bandwidth. c) Send policies/intents to Near-RT RIC to drive the QoE optimization at RAN level in terms of expected behavior. 2) Near-RT RIC: a) Support update of AI/ML models from Non-RT RIC. b) Support execution of the AI/ML models from Non-RT RIC, e.g., application classification, QoE prediction, and available bandwidth prediction. c) Support interpretation and execution of intents and policies from Non-RT RIC to derive the QoE optimization at RAN level in terms of expected behavior. d) Sending QoE performance report to Non-RT RIC for evaluation and optimization. 3) RAN: a) Support network state and UE performance report with required granularity to SMO over O1 interface. b) Support QoS enforcement based on messages from A1/E2, which are expected to influence RRM behavior. 4) Application server/MEC: a) Request/subscribe RAN analytics information from Near-RT RIC.

### 4.4.3 Solutions

#### 4.4.3.1 AI/ML model training and distribution
The context of the model training and distribution is captured in table 4.4.3.1-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal Model training and distribution Actors and Roles Non-RT RIC, Near-RT RIC, SMO, application server All relevant functions and components are instantiated. Assumptions A1/O1 interface connectivity is established with Non-RT RIC. Near-RT RIC and Non-RT RIC are instantiated with A1 interface connectivity being established between them. A certificate is shared between Near-RT RIC and Non-RT RIC for model Pre-conditions related data exchange. Editor’s note: Security related procedure is not defined in the present document. Begins when Operator specified trigger condition or event is detected. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use QoE related measurement metrics from SMO (can acquire data from Step 1 (M) application) and network level measurement report either for instantiating training of a new ML model or modifying existing ML model. Non-RT RIC does the model training, obtains QoE related models, and can deploy QoE policy model internally. An example of QoE-related models that can be used at the Near-RT RIC is provided as follows: Step 2 (M) a) Application classification model (optional and can refer to 3rd party’s existing functionality) b) QoE prediction model c) QoE policy model d) Available BW prediction model Non-RT RIC deploys/updates the AI/ML model in the Near-RT RIC via O1 Step 3 (M) or Non-RT RIC assigns/update the AI/ML model for the Near-RT RIC xApp via A1. Near-RT RIC stores the received QoE related ML models in the ML Step 4 (M) model inference platform and based on requirements of ML models. If required, Non-RT RIC can configure specific performance measurement data to be collected from RAN to assess the performance Step 5 (O) of AI/ML models and update the AI/ML model in Near-RT RIC based on the performance evaluation and model retraining. Ends when Operator specified trigger condition or event is satisfied. Exceptions None identified. Near-RT RIC stores the received QoE related ML models in the ML Post Conditions model inference platform and execute the model for QoE optimization function in Near-RT RIC. The flow diagram of the model training and distribution is given in figure 4.4.3.1-1.

#### 4.4.3.2 Policy generation and performance evaluation
The context of the policy generation and performance evaluation is captured in table 4.4.3.2-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal Policy generation and performance evaluation Actors and Roles Non-RT RIC, Near-RT RIC, SMO All relevant functions and components are instantiated. Assumptions A1/O1 interface connectivity is established with Non-RT RIC. QoE related models have been deployed in Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC Pre-conditions respectively. The network operator/manager want to generate QoE policy or optimize Begins when QoE related AI/ML models. Non-RT RIC evaluates the collected data and generates the appropriate Step 1 (M) QoE optimization policy. Non-RT RIC sends the QoE optimization policy to Near-RT RIC via A1 Step 2 (M) interface. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Near-RT RIC receives the policy from the Non-RT RIC over the A1 interface and from the RAN over the E2 interface. And the Near-RT RIC Step 3 (M) inferences the QoE related AI/ML models and converts policy to specific E2 control or policy commands. Near-RT RIC sends the E2 control or policy commands towards RAN for Step 4 (M) QoE optimization. RAN enforces the received control or policy from the Near-RT RIC over Step 5 (M) the E2 interface. If required, Non-RT RIC can configure specific performance measurement data to be collected from RAN to assess the performance of the QoE Step 6 (O) optimization function in Near-RT RIC, or to assess the outcome of the applied A1 policies. And then update A1 policy and E2 control or policy. Ends when Operator specified trigger condition or event is satisfied. Exceptions None identified. Non-RT RIC monitors the performance of the QoE optimization related Post Conditions function in Near-RT RIC by collecting and monitoring the relevant performance KPIs and counters from RAN. The flow diagram of the policy generation and performance evaluation is given in figure 4.4.3.2-1.

#### 4.4.3.3 RAN performance analytics
The context of the RAN performance analytics is captured in table 4.4.3.3-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal Expose RAN analytics information to external applications or MEC. Actors and Roles Non-RT RIC, Near-RT RIC, SMO, application server/MEC All relevant functions and components are instantiated. Assumptions A1/O1 interface connectivity is established with Non-RT RIC. QoE related models have been deployed in Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC respectively. Pre-conditions Editor’s note: Security related procedure is not defined in the present document. The application server or MEC wants to request/subscribe RAN analytics Begins when information Application server or MEC sends RAN analytics information request to Step 1 (M) Near-RT RIC or subscribes RAN analytics information from Near-RT RIC to get periodic or event triggered RAN performance. Near-RT RIC receives the request or subscription from application server or MEC. Upon the request, the Near-RT RIC subscribes and receives the measurement data from O-CU/O-DU. Based on it, with QoE related AI/ML Step 2 (M) models, the Near-RT RIC infers the RAN analytics information, and exposes it to application server or MEC via the response or notification command. Such information, e.g., performance analytics could be used for QoE optimization. Application server gets response or sends subscription deletion toward the Ends when Near-RT RIC. Exceptions None identified. Application server executes logic control, e.g., TCP transmission window Post Conditions adjustment, video coding rate selection to improve QoE. The flow diagram of the RAN performance analytics is given in figure 4.4.3.3-1.

### 4.4.4 Required data
Multi-dimensional data are expected to be retrieved by Non-RT RIC for AI/ML model training and policies/intents generation. Network level measurement data from O-CU/O-DU are also expected to report to Near-RT RIC for RAN analytics information inference. 1) Network level measurement report, including: a) UE level radio channel information, mobility related metrics, e.g., CQI, SINR, MCS b) L2 measurement report related to traffic pattern, e.g., throughput, latency, packets per-second, inter frame arrival time c) RAN protocol stack status: e.g., PDCP buffer status d) Cell level information: e.g., DL/UL PRB occupation rate 2) QoE related measurement metrics collected from SMO (can acquire data from application or network). 3) User traffic data, which can be obtained via a proprietary interface from existing data collection equipment and is currently out of the scope of A1 or E2. RAN analytics information: RAN analytics information exposed by Near-RT RIC to application server includes but is not limited to: 1) UE level information, e.g.: a) Predicted RAN performance, e.g., maximum/average traffic rate, maximum/average latency, average packet loss rate b) Prediction related information, e.g., confidence, validity period 2) Cell level information.

## 4.5 Traffic steering
This use case provides the motivation, description, and requirements for traffic steering use case, allowing operators to specify different objectives for traffic management such as optimizing the network/UE performance, or achieving balanced cell load.

### 4.5.1 Background and goal of the use case
5G systems will support many different combinations of access technologies namely; LTE (licensed band), NR (licensed band), NR-U (unlicensed band), Wi-Fi (unlicensed band) [i.3]. Several different multi-access deployment scenarios are possible with 5GC to support wide variety of applications and satisfy the spectrum requirements of different service providers;
- Carrier aggregation between licensed band NR (primary cell) and NR-U (secondary cell)
- Dual connectivity between licensed band NR (primary cell) and NR-U (secondary cell)
- Dual connectivity between licensed band LTE (primary cell) and NR-U (secondary cell)
- Dual connectivity between licensed band NR (primary cell) and Wi-Fi (secondary cell)
> NOTE: The scenario of dual connectivity between NR and Wi-Fi is not defined in the present document.
The rapid traffic growth and multiple frequency bands utilized in a commercial network make it challenging to steer the traffic in a balanced distribution. Further in a multi-access system there is need to switch the traffic across access technologies based on changes in radio environment and application requirements and even split the traffic across multiple access technologies to satisfy performance requirements. The different types of traffic and frequency bands in a commercial network make it challenging to handle the complex QoS aspects, bearer selection (Master Cell Group (MCG) bearer, Secondary Cell Group (SCG) bearer, split bearer), bearer type change for load balancing, achieving low latency and best in class throughput in a multi-access scenario with 5GC networks as specified in 3GPP TS 37.340 [12]. Typical controls are limited to adjusting the cell reselection and handover parameters; modifying load calculations and cell priorities; and are largely static in nature when selecting the type of bearers and QoS attributes. Further, the RRM (Radio Resource Management) features in the existing cellular network are all cell-centric. Even in different areas of within a cell, there are variations in radio environment, such as neighboring cell coverage, signal strength, interference status, etc. However, base stations based on traditional control strategies treat all UEs in a similar way and are usually focused on average cell-centric performance, rather than UE-centric. Such current solutions suffer from following limitations:
- It is hard to adapt the RRM control to diversified scenarios including multi-access deployments and optimization
objectives.
- The traffic management strategy is usually passive, rarely taking advantage of capabilities to predict network and
UE performance. The strategy needs to consider aspects of steering, switching, and splitting traffic across different access technologies in a multi-access scenario.
- Non-optimal traffic management, with slow response time, due to various factors such as inability to select the
right set of UEs for control action. This further results in non-optimal system and UE performance, such as suboptimal spectrum utilization, reduced throughput and increased handover failures. Based on the above reasons, the main objective of this use case is to allow operators to flexibly configure the desired optimization policies, utilize the right performance criteria, and leverage machine learning to enable intelligent and proactive traffic management.

### 4.5.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case
1) Non-RT RIC: a) Retrieve necessary performance, configuration, and other data for defining and updating policies to guide the behavior of traffic management function in Near-RT RIC. For example, the policy could relate to specifying different optimization objectives to guide the carrier/band preferences at per-UE or group of UE granularity. b) Support communication of policies to Near-RT RIC. c) Support communication of measurement configuration parameters to RAN. 2) Near-RT RIC: a) Support interpretation and enforcement of policies from Non-RT RIC. 3) E2 nodes: a) Support data collection with required granularity to SMO over O1 interface.

### 4.5.3 Solutions

#### 4.5.3.1 Policy-based traffic steering
The context of the traffic steering use case is captured in table 4.5.3.1-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Drive traffic management in RAN in accordance with defined intents, policies, Goal and configuration. Non-RT RIC: RAN policy control function. Near-RT RIC: RAN policy enforcement function. Actors and Roles E2 nodes: Control plane and user plane functions. SMO/Collection & Control: Termination point for O1 interface. All relevant functions and components are instantiated. Assumptions A1 interface connectivity is established with Non-RT RIC. O1 interface connectivity is established with SMO/ Collection & Control. Network is operational. SMO/ Collection & Control has established the data collection and sharing Pre-conditions process, and Non-RT RIC has access to this data. Non-RT RIC monitors the performance by collecting the relevant performance events and counters from E2 nodes via SMO/ Collection & Control. Begins when Operator specified trigger condition or event is detected. If required, Non-RT RIC configures additional, more specific, performance Step 1 (O) measurement data to be collected from E2 nodes to assess the performance. Non-RT RIC decides an action and communicates relevant policies to Near-RT RIC over A1. The example policies can include: Step 2 (M) a) QoS targets b) Preferences on which cells to allocate control plane and user plane <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use c) Bearer handling aspects including bearer selection, bearer type change The Near-RT RIC receives the relevant info from Non-RT RIC over A1 interface, Step 3 (M) interprets the policies and enforces them. Step 4 (M) Non-RT RIC decides that conditions to continue the policy is no longer valid. Ends when Non-RT RIC deletes the policy. Exceptions None identified. Non-RT RIC monitors the performance by collecting the relevant performance Post Conditions events and counters from E2 nodes via SMO. The flow diagram of the traffic steering use case is given in figure 4.5.3.1-1.

#### 4.5.3.2 Enrichment information based traffic steering
In this variation, when the Near-RT detects cell congestion, it requests via A1-EI to Non-RT RIC analytics that can be used as additional information to assist in its efforts at alleviating that congestion. The context of the enrichment information-based traffic steering use case is captured in table 4.5.3.2-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Drive traffic management in RAN in accordance with defined enrichment Goal information and associated decision control.
- Non-RT RIC: RAN analytics and enrichment information framework.
- “UE location” rApp: Capable of calculating the geo-location of UEs with a
prediction on the granularity of seconds time scale (e.g., based on timing advance and RRC measurements), aggregating and trending those over time to learn mobility patterns, and using these to predict a UE’s future location based on its recent location history.
- “Traffic steering” rApp: Determines set of UEs connected to requested cell
and requests UE location rApp analytics, forwarding the same to the Near- Actors and Roles RT RIC.
- Near-RT RIC: Detects breaches in expected performance and requests
enrichment information from Non-RT RIC to aid in mitigation efforts. Also performs RAN decision control based on network telemetry and the enrichment information provided by Non-RT RIC.
- E2 nodes: Control plane and user plane RAN functions.
- SMO/ Collection & Control: Termination point for O1 interface.
- All relevant functions and components are instantiated.
- A1 interface connectivity is established between Near-RT RIC and Non-RT
RIC. Assumptions
- O1 interface connectivity is established between RAN E2 nodes and SMO/
Collection & Control.
- Near-RT RIC is capable of detecting a breach in cell performance and
determine the usefulness of predictive data.
- Network is operational.
- Network data collection pipelines have been engineered for necessary data
volumes and Non-RT RIC has access to this data.
- Both rApps have registered via R1 the data types that they produce and the
data types they consume. Pre-conditions
- UE location rApp has been trained to recognize the UE mobility patterns in
the local area such that, given a UE identifier, it can quickly determine whether that UE is or is not following a known mobility pattern.
- Traffic steering rApp has subscribed to, and Non-RT RIC/SMO is collecting
on its behalf, the relevant performance events and counters from E2 nodes via SMO/ Collection & Control. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Near-RT RIC detects a cell performance breach (e.g., due to UE capacity Begins when considerations) and determines it might be useful to have additional information from the Non-RT RIC regarding UE candidates for handover. Near-RT RIC requests of the Non-RT RIC the enrichment information Step 1 (M) corresponding to the UE_Traj_Pred R1 data type for the congested cell. Non-RT RIC leverages R1 to subscribe to UE_Traj_Pred data type from the Step 2 (M) traffic steering rApp. Step 3 (M) Traffic steering rApp subscribes to relevant network data for the cell in question. Non-RT RIC/SMO interact with the O-RAN network to collect the requested Steps 4-8 (M) network data and deliver to the traffic steering rApp. Traffic steering rApp determines from network data which UEs are connected to Step 9 (M) the cells in question. Traffic steering rApp leverages R1 to subscribe to UE location prediction data Step 10 (M) type (UeLocPred) for those UEs connected to the cells in question and that also meet other criteria known to the traffic steering rApp. Non-RT RIC leverages R1 to have UE location rApp produce the requested data Step 11 (M) type instances for the specified UEs. Step 12 (M) UE location rApp subscribes to relevant network data for the UEs in question. Non-RT RIC/SMO interact with the O-RAN network to collect the requested Steps 13-17 (M) network data and deliver to the UE location rApp. UE location rApp determines from network data, trended over time, the UE Step 18 (M) location prediction over a particular future time window (e.g., 10-30 seconds) for the UE along with a confidence value for that prediction. UE location rApp leverages R1 to return the UeLocPred instances to the Non- Steps 19-20 (M) RT RIC, which in turn delivers to the traffic steering rApp. Traffic steering rApp determines from UE location prediction analytics the predicted locations of the specified UEs within the next 10-30 seconds, maps those locations into a historical RF measurements map overlaying cell Step 21 (M) boundaries to physical geography, and determines the subset of UEs predicted to be leaving the oversubscribed cell within the next 10-30 seconds anyway, and hence which would perhaps be candidates for expedited handover. Traffic steering rApp leverages R1 to generate UE trajectory prediction Step 22 (M) (UE_Traj_Pred) data based on its analysis. Non-RT RIC leverages A1-EI to forward the UE trajectory prediction data to the Step 23 (M) Near-RT RIC as the corresponding A1 enrichment information type. The Near-RT RIC interprets the information content received across the A1-EI interface and determines whether and how to use that EI in its congestion Step 24 (M) mitigation activities. (As a further optimization, it can be useful for the Near-RT RIC to also understand what type of activity the UE is engaged in.) Near-RT RIC continues monitoring cell performance and decides that Step 25 (M) congestion has been resolved. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Near-RT RIC requests the Non-RT RIC to discontinue UE_Traj_Pred data Step 26 (M) production for the target cell. Non-RT RIC leverages R1 to unsubscribe to UE_Traj_Pred data type from the Step 27 (M) traffic steering rApp. Traffic steering rApp leverages R1 to unsubscribe to the UE location prediction Step 28 (M) data type for the corresponding UEs. Non-RT RIC leverages R1 to unsubscribe to UELocPred data type from the UE Step 29 (M) location rApp. Steps 30-32 (M) UELocPred rApp unsubscribes to the relevant network data. UE location prediction rApp ceases to produce the UE location prediction data Ends when for the corresponding UEs and to collect the associated network data. Exceptions None identified. Post Conditions Near-RT RIC continues to monitor RAN performance. The flow diagram of the enrichment information-based traffic steering use case is given in figure 4.5.3.2-1.

### 4.5.4 Required data
The measurement counters and KPIs (as defined by 3GPP and will be extended for O-RAN use cases) shall be appropriately aggregated by cell, QoS type, slice, etc. 1) Measurement reports with RSRP/RSRQ/CQI information for serving and neighboring cells. In multi-access scenarios this will also include intra-RAT and inter-RAT measurement reports, cell quality thresholds, CGI reports and measurement gaps on per-UE or per-frequency. 2) UE connection and mobility/handover statistics with indication of successful and failed handovers, etc. 3) Cell load statistics such as information in the form of number of active users or connections, number of scheduled active users per TTI, PRB utilization, and CCE utilization. 4) Per user performance statistics such as PDCP throughput, RLC or MAC layer latency, etc. 5) UE level measurements useful in calculating UE location, such as RRC and timing advance measurements.

## 4.6 Massive MIMO optimization
This use case provides the motivation, description, and requirements for Non-RT and Near-RT loop massive MIMO beamforming optimization use case. Massive MIMO system configuration can allow operators to optimize the network performance and QoS by e.g. Non-RT and Near-RT loop balancing cell loads or reducing inter-cell interference and control electromagnetic (EM) emissions.

### 4.6.1 Background and goal of the use case

#### 4.6.1.1 Common aspects & background of all Massive MIMO optimization use cases
Massive MIMO (mMIMO) is among the key levers to increase performance and QoS in 5G networks. Capacity enhancement is obtained by means of beamforming of the transmitted signals, and by spatially multiplexing data streams for both single user (SU) and for multi-user (MU) MIMO. Beamforming increases the received signal power, while decreasing the interference generated on other users, hence resulting in higher SINR and user throughputs. Beamforming can be codebook based (mainly for FDD), or non-codebook based (TDD). Grid of Beams (GoB) with the corresponding beam sweeping has been introduced to allow beamforming the control channels used during initial access, mainly for high frequency (but can be used also for the sub-6 GHz band) MIMO operation. The codebook and the GoB define the span of the beams, namely the horizontal and vertical aperture in which beamforming is supported, and therefore the coverage area and the shape of the cell. Massive MIMO can be deployed in 5G macro-cells as well as in heterogeneous network, where macro-cells and 3D-MIMO small cells co-exist and complement each other for better aggregated capacity and coverage. In order to obtain an optimal beamforming and cell resources (Tx power, PRB) configuration, one will have to look at a multi-cell environment instead of a single cell. Moreover, different vendors can have different implementations in terms of the number of beams, the horizontal/vertical beam widths, azimuth and elevation range, to achieve the desired coverage. In a multi-node/multi-vendor scenario, centralized monitoring and control is required to offer optimal coverage, capacity and mobility performance as well as control over EM emissions in order to comply with regulatory requirements. Additionally, the number of such combinations of adjustable parameters is in the thousands, hence it is prohibitive for the traditional human expert system to work out the optimal configuration, and a new method is in need. State of the art solutions suffer from the following problems: mMIMO macro- and small-cells benefit from a flexible way of serving users in their coverage area thanks to beamforming. However, the coverage area itself is defined by (vendor specific) fixed mMIMO system parameters such as the azimuth and elevation angle range, or the GoB parameters. Hence due to user and traffic distribution and terrain topology, the mMIMO cell can suffer from e.g. 1) High inter-cell interference 2) Unbalanced traffic between neighboring cells 3) Low performance of cell edge users 4) Poor handover performance Moreover, load balancing functions can be activated in the network nodes, e.g. gNB adapting mobility parameters in order to distribute load between the beams of the neighbor cells, relying on load information exchange over network interfaces. This approach however is partly limited by the cell footprint statically fixed at the initial configuration. The objective of this use case is to allow the operator to flexibly configure a mMIMO system parameters by means of policies and configuration assisted by machine learning techniques, according to objectives defined by the operator.

#### 4.6.1.2 NR cell shaping optimization
Traditionally network coverage in a cellular network is defined by the coverage provided by the union of all the cells in the network. The individual coverage of a cell is determined by aspects including frequency band, radio emission power, orientation and tilt of the antenna, etc. The coverage of a given radio site would include one or multiple cells or sectors, and the coverage if each of these cells/ sectors is relatively static in nature. One of the challenges for operators in deployment their networks is maximizing the efficiency of the spectrum deployed. Because spectrum is both very scarce and expensive, enhancing this efficiency can significantly help improve the operations and business for the wireless network operator. As the traffic profile evolves during the day and driven by special circumstances and events, it has become necessary to have the ability to dynamically modify the shapes of the cells to tune the cell coverage to the evolving traffic needs. The shape of the cell corresponds to the shape of the coverage provided by the sector carrier. NR cell shaping is designed for FDD or for TDD mid-band deployments. It allows the adjustment of cell footprint by adjusting by configuring the vertical and horizontal coverage width of the common beam into combinations to describe a valid supported shape as driven by O-RU capabilities and then refined through further adjustments with the tilt. The data beams, which carry user traffic, are impacted the serving cell shape changes from the cell shaping optimization. The configurable cell shape allows for coverage control, interference reduction, and better power utilization. However, with the increased optimization comes the challenge of more complexity. NR cell shaping optimizes cell shaping via different configuration of RET and digital tilt. The optimization leverages algorithms to consider the network configuration and conditions in both the acting and the neighbour cells. The benefits from NR cell shaping include:
- Dynamic, adaptation of the network changes and traffic distribution with beam width optimization.
- Reduction and/or improvements of interference to optimize quality and cell overlapping.
- Intra-frequency load balancing.
- The ability to execute different policies according to operator needs.

### 4.6.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case

#### 4.6.2.1 Non-RT massive MIMO GoB beam forming optimization
1) Non-RT RIC: a) Retrieve necessary configurations, performance indicators, measurement reports, user activity information and other data from SMO and RAN directly for the purpose of constructing/training relevant AI/ML models that will be deployed in Non-RT RIC to assist in the massive MIMO optimization function. b) Retrieve necessary user location related information, e.g., GPS coordinates, from the application layer for the purpose of constructing/training relevant AI/ML models. c) Use the trained AI/ML model to infer the user distribution and traffic distribution of multiple cells and predict the optimal configuration of massive MIMO parameters for each cell/beam according to a global optimization objective designed by the operator. The massive MIMO configurable parameters includes horizontal beam width, vertical beam width, beam azimuth and downtilt, maximum and average transmitted power per beam/direction as specified in 3GPP TS 28.541 [5]. d) Send the optimal beam pattern configuration to SMO configuration components. e) Retrain the AI/ML model and re-optimize the beam pattern configurations based on the monitored performance. f) Execute the control loop periodically or event-triggered. 2) SMO: a) Collect the necessary configurations, performance indicators, and measurement reports data from RAN nodes triggered by Non-RT RIC if required. b) Configure the optimized beam parameters via O1 interface. c) Monitor the performance of all the cells; when the optimization objective fails, initiate fall-back procedure; meanwhile, trigger the AI/ML model re-training, data analytics and optimization in Non-RT RIC. 3) E2 nodes: a) Collect and report to SMO and/or to Near-RT RIC KPI related to user activity, traffic load, coverage and QoS performance, per beam/area, handover, and beam failures statistics. b) Collect and report to SMO and/or to Near-RT RIC information about beam and resource utilization. c) Apply beam management strategies following SMO and Near-RT RIC configuration and constraints.

#### 4.6.2.2 Near-RT beam-based mobility robustness optimization
1) SMO: a) Trigger bMRO configuration. (O) b) Send bMRO configuration target to Near-RT RIC. c) Send GoB beam pattern related information (beam pattern configuration, beam pattern configuration list, beam pattern configuration switch timing/condition, beam pattern identifier etc.) to the Near-RT RIC. 2) Near-RT RIC: a) Retrieve necessary configurations, performance indicators, measurement reports and other data from E2 nodes for the purpose of training of relevant AI/ML models. b) Use the trained AI/ML models to infer the correlation between the Grid-of-Beam configuration, handover, and beam failure statistics of multiple cells and beams, and to predict the optimal configuration of mobility parameters (e.g., beam individual offsets for beam mobility) for each cell/beam pair optionally according to a global optimization objective designed by the operator and retrieved from the SMO. c) Send the optimal beam mobility parameter configurations to E2 nodes as specified in 3GPP TS 28.541 [5]. d) Monitor the performance of the AI/ML model based on configurations, performance indicators, and measurement reports received from the RAN. e) Retrain the AI/ML model and re-optimize the beam mobility configurations based on the monitored performance and/or based on a switch of the Grid-of-Beam configuration. f) Execute the control loop periodically or event triggered. g) Retrieve GoB beam pattern related information from the SMO. 3) E2 nodes: a) Collect and report to Near-RT RIC KPIs related to Grid-of-Beam configuration, handover, and beam failure statistics. b) Apply L3 beam mobility parameter configuration following Near-RT RIC configuration as specified in 3GPP TS 28.541 [5]. c) Send GoB beam pattern related information to the Near-RT RIC.

#### 4.6.2.3 NR cell shaping optimization
1) SMO: a. Collect the necessary configurations, performance indicators, and measurement reports data from RAN nodes triggered by Non-RT RIC as required. b. Configure the optimized cell shape per cell level for MIMO beam parameters and tilt via the O1 interface. c. Monitor the performance of all the cells to determine when to trigger for new data analytics and optimization in Non-RT RIC. 2) Non-RT RIC & rApp: a. Retrieve necessary performance, configuration, and other data for defining and updating cel shaping policy. b. rApp provides the target optimal pattern settings and configuration to create an optimal cell shape characteristics to be applied to the SMO configuration, as to be applied by the RAN. 3) RAN: a. Collect and report to SMO KPIs and PMs related to user activity, evolution of radio conditions, traffic load, coverage and QoS performance, per cell/beam/areas. b. Collect and report to SMO information and statistics about beam and resource utilization. c. Apply beam management strategies following SMO configuration instructions and constraints.

### 4.6.3 Solutions

#### 4.6.3.1 Non-RT massive MIMO GoB beam forming optimization
The context of the massive MIMO beamforming optimization is captured in table 4.6.3.1-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Enable flexible optimization of the multi-cell M-MIMO beamforming performance (capacity and coverage) by means of configuration Goal parameter change with operator-defined objectives and allow for AI/ML- based solutions. Non-RT RIC acting as massive MIMO beamforming configuration optimization decision making function. Actors and Roles SMO acting as the RAN data collection and parameter configuration function. RAN acting as configuration enforcement function. O1 interface connectivity is established between RAN and SMO. Assumptions Network is operational. SMO has processed the collected data and Non-RT RIC has access to Pre-conditions this data. Begins when Operator specified trigger condition or event is detected. If required, SMO can initiate the specific measurement data collection Step 1 (O) request towards RAN for AI/ML model training or to assess the outcome of the applied configuration. Non-RT RIC retrieve the data from SMO components and trains the AI/ML model with the collected data from the application, the RAN Step 2 (M) nodes. Trained AI/ML models are deployed and inferenced for long-term configuration parameters optimization. Upon trigger from Non-RT RIC with the optimized beam parameters, SMO configures the parameters towards the RAN via O1 interface. The relevant parameters can include: Step 3 (M) a) horizontal beam width, vertical beam width, beam azimuth and downtilt b) maximum and average transmitted power per beam/direction SMO monitors the network performance. If the algorithm performance is Step 4 (M) unsatisfactory in terms of predefined objective/requirement, SMO initiates fallback mechanism to restore previous configuration. It can also <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use gather necessary information and data to retrain and update the AI/ML model or trigger the optimization in Non-RT RIC. Ends when Operator specified trigger condition or event is satisfied. Exceptions None identified. Post Conditions The RAN operates using the newly deployed parameters/models. The flow diagram of the massive MIMO beamforming optimization is given in figure 4.6.3.1-1.

#### 4.6.3.2 Near-RT massive MIMO beam-based mobility robustness optimization
The context of the massive MIMO beam-based mobility robustness optimization is captured in table 4.6.3.2-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Enable flexible optimization of the beam-based mobility robustness Goal optimization by means of configuration parameter change with operator- defined objectives and allow for AI/ML-based solutions. Near-RT RIC acting as bMRO function, data collection function, and AI/ML model training function. Actors and Roles E2 nodes acting as configuration enforcement function. E2 connectivity is established between Near-RT RIC and E2 nodes. O1 Assumptions connectivity is established between Near-RT RIC and SMO. Network is operational. Pre-conditions Active Grid-of-Beams beam pattern is defined. Operator specified trigger condition is set or event is detected or Begins when periodically. Near-RT RIC collects necessary data from E2 nodes and related GoB Step 1 (M) beam pattern Information and trains the AI/ML model with the collected data. Trained AI/ML models are executed in Near-RT RIC and infer for Step 2 (M) configuration parameter optimization based on the operator target. Continuously or upon trigger (e.g., change in the mMIMO beam pattern Step 3 (M) configuration, manual trigger etc.), Near-RT RIC configures optimized parameters in E2 nodes (e.g., bCIO-s). Near-RT RIC monitors the network performance. If the algorithm performance is unsatisfactory in terms of predefined objective/requirement, Near-RT RIC initiates fallback mechanism to Step 4 (M) restore previous/default configuration. It can also gather necessary information and data to retrain and update the AI/ML model or trigger the optimization. Ends when Operator specified trigger condition or event is satisfied. Exceptions None identified. Post Conditions The E2 Nodes operate using the newly deployed parameters. The flow diagram of the massive MIMO beam-based mobility robustness optimization is given in figure 4.6.3.2-1.
> NOTE on , :
One of the necessary inputs for training and inference of the bMRO function is the (current) GoB beam pattern (or alternative beam pattern) that is determined externally (in the SMO, in the Non-RT RIC, in the E2 nodes, or in the Near- RT RIC by another function). The relevant GoB beam pattern information shall be made available to the Near-RT RIC bMRO function both for training and inference. Depending on implementation, this can be achieved by transmission from the SMO (over O1), or by transmission from the E2 nodes (over E2), or by combined transmission from the SMO and the E2 nodes (or by communication between two Near-RT RIC functions). Moreover, depending how the relevant GoB beam pattern information is defined, the necessary information can be even transmitted separately and asynchronously (e.g., SMO transmits a list of GoB beam patterns for the next, longer time period, while the E2 nodes transmit the exact times of beam pattern change and indicate the ID of the beam pattern in the list).

#### 4.6.3.3 NR cell shaping optimization
The context for the cell shaping optimization use case is captured in table 4.6.3.3-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Evolution / Specification Stage Related use Goal Detect optimization opportunities for cell shape optimizations and apply new configuration settings to ensure the optimization cells shapes. Actors and SMO, Non-RT RIC, O-RAN NFs, rApp Roles Assumptions All relevant functions and components are instantiated, and O1, R1, OFH interface connectivity is in place. Pre-conditions Network is operational. SMO has processed the collected data, and Non-RT RIC has access to this data. O1 is established between the SMO and RAN Nodes. Non-RT RIC monitors the performance by collecting the relevant performance events and counters from O-RAN nodes from SMO. Begins when Network is in normal operational state, providing regular PM and KPI reports. Step1 (M) Network provides regular interval performance measurements, and in one such report there are criteria to optimize the shape of the cells. Step 2 (O) Alternate scenario 1 – Automated intervention: Triggering for new cell shape to be applied triggered automatically based on network criteria and performance measurements. Step 3 (O) Alternate scenario 2 – Manual Intervention: Triggering for new cell shape to be applied is triggered by manual operator / radio planning intervention. Step 4 (M) Once criteria have been triggered field data is provided to the rApp via the Non-RT RIC to determine what new settings to set. Step 5 (M) Applicable field inputs are provided to rApp as inputs for the optimization logic to apply. Step 6 (M) Based on rApp logic, new configuration settings for cell shape are provided. <<Uses>> Use Case Evolution / Specification Stage Related use Step 7 (M) The new settings are made available to the SMO for communication to the RAN. Step 8-12 (M) The SMO communicates the new O1 settings to the O-DU and O-RU as driven by hybrid or hierarchical management options - via O1 and M-plane. Ends when Operator specified or rApp trigger changes and event are satisfied. Exceptions None identified. Post None. Conditions skin rose Box "Operator Personnel" #Lightcyan Actor planner as "Planner" Box “SMO Framework“ #gold participant smo as "SMO" participant non_RT_RIC participant rApp Box “RAN” #lightpink participant odu as “O-DU“ participant oru as “O-RU“ Note over smo Criteria triggered for cell shaper optimization. Two scenarios:

### 4.6.4 Required data

#### 4.6.4.1 Non-RT massive MIMO GoB beam forming optimization
There are different types of data that are required from different parts of the network, and the following list summarizes with some examples: 1) Environment data: Cell site information (location), inter-site distance, BS system configuration, (e.g. operating frequency, bandwidth, frame structure, transmit power, default beam weight configuration); complete set of massive MIMO configurations, i.e., horizontal beamwidth adjustable range, vertical beamwidth adjustable range, azimuth angle adjustable range, elevation angle adjustable range. 2) From RAN to SMO and/or Near-RT RIC a) Measurement reports with RSRP/RSRQ/CQI/SINR per beam information for the UEs in cells of interest; the time granularity of data collection shall be configurable and satisfy the requirement of the AI/ML model. b) Network KPIs: e.g., cell downlink/uplink traffic load, RRC connection attempts, average RRC connected UE, maximum RRC connected UE, average active connections (downlink/uplink), DL/UL throughput, DL/UL spectral efficiency, NI (Noise Interference); beam resource usage (transmitted power per beam/directions and associated PRB usage), beam based handover and beam failure statistics 3) From application to SMO a) User location related information, e.g., GPS coordinates for the purpose of constructing/training relevant AI/ML models.

#### 4.6.4.2 Near-RT massive MIMO beam-based mobility robustness optimization
1) Beam-specific handover related KPMs, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6] and in 3GPP TS 28.622 [8] from E2 nodes, similar to: a) Too early handovers b) Too late handovers c) Attempted handovers d) Successful handovers e) Failed handovers f) The time granularity is an integer multiple of 1 second as specified in 3GPP TS 28.622 [8]. 2) The beam pattern information supplied externally is not defined in the present document.

#### 4.6.4.3 NR cell shaping optimization
Requirement Category Parameters Source Applicable Reference Interface Req-4.6.001 Network Configuration Node Id: Node O-DU O1 3GPP TS 28.541 [5], Management identification clause 4.3.1, gnbId + gnbDUId Req-4.6.002 Network Configuration Sector Id: Sector O-DU O1 Management identification Req-4.6.003 Network Configuration Cell Id: Cell O-DU O1 3GPP TS 28.541 [5], Management identification clauses 4.3.1, 4.3.5, gnbId + cellLocalId Req-4.6.004 Network Configuration Antenna Latitude O-DU O1 Management Req-4.6.005 Network Configuration Antenna Longitude O-DU O1 Management Req-4.6.006 Network Configuration Antenna Azimuth O-DU O1 Management (direction) Req-4.6.007 Network Configuration Antenna Elevation O-DU O1 3GPP TS 28.662 [41], Management (Height) clause 4.3.2 Req-4.6.008 Network Configuration Antenna – Remote O-DU/O-RU O1 Management Electrical Tilt subunit mapping Req-4.6.009 Network Configuration Antenna – Remote O-DU/O-RU FH MP O-RAN.WG4.MP [28], Management Electrical Tilt subunit clause 14.4.2 mapping Req-4.6.010 Network Configuration Remote Electrical O-DU/O-RU O1 3GPP TS 28.662 [41], Management Tilt per antenna clause 4.3.2, retTiltValue Req-4.6.011 Network Configuration Remote Electrical O-DU/O-RU FH MP O-RAN.WG4.MP [28], Management Tilt per antenna clause 14.4.3 and AISG specifications Req-4.6.012 Network Configuration Digital tilt per O-DU/O-RU O1 Management antenna Req-4.6.013 Network Configuration Digital tilt per O-DU/O-RU FH MP O-RAN.WG4.MP [28], Management antenna clause 14.4.3 and AISG specifications Req-4.6.014 Network Configuration Broadcast and O-DU O1 3GPP TS 28.541 [5], Management Cellular Broadcast clause 4.3.1, gnbId + (BCB) per cell level gnbDUId Req-4.6.015 Network Configuration Horizontal coverage O-DU O1 Management width Req-4.6.016 Network Configuration Horizontal coverage O-DU FH MP Management width Req-4.6.017 Network Configuration Vertical coverage O-DU O1 Management width Req-4.6.018 Network Configuration Vertical coverage O-DU FH MP Management width Req-4.6.019 Network Configuration Supported coverage O-RU O1 Management combinations of vertical / horizontal options (radio specific capabilities) Req-4.6.020 Network Configuration Supported coverage O-RU FH MP Management combinations of vertical / horizontal options (radio specific capabilities)

## 4.7 RAN sharing
This use case provides the motivation, description, and requirements for RAN sharing use case. The goal of this use case is to enable multiple operators to share the same O-RAN infrastructure, while allowing them to remotely configure and control the shared resources via a remote O1, O2 and E2 interface.

### 4.7.1 Background and goal of the use case
RAN sharing is envisioned as an efficient and sustainable way to reduce the network deployment costs, while increasing network capacity and coverage. Among the different RAN sharing models that have been experimented so far, a special focus is put here on the evaluation of the compatibility of the “geographical split” RAN sharing model with the O-RAN architecture. In such a model, a coverage area is split between two or more operators; each operator manages the RAN in a specific area, while sharing its RAN infrastructure and computing resources with its partner operators. Specifically, this use case analyzes the Multi-Operator RAN (MORAN) sharing scenario, wherein each operator utilizes a separate carrier in order to achieve more freedom and independency on the control of the radio resources. Accordingly, the goal of this use case is to propose a sharing-compliant O-RAN architecture that lets operators to configure the shared network resources independently from configuration and operating strategies of the other sharing operators. Specifically, it is proposed that a home operator (operator A) makes available its O-RAN infrastructure and computing resources to host the Virtual RAN Functions (VNF) of a second operator (operator B), allowing it to configure and control such remote VNFs via a remote O1, O2 and E2 interface. The logic architecture of the proposed MORAN use case is shown in figure 4.7.1-1. It is assumed that operator A owns the site A and shares the PHY layer (LOW) with operator B (Shared O-RU). Indeed, multiple PLMN IDs are broadcasted, while each operator operates in a different carrier. Moreover, the computing resources of the site A are shared among multiple VNFs, belonging to operator A and operator B, respectively. Each VNF represents a logic implementation of the O-DU and O-CU functionalities and is controlled by each partner operator in an independent manner. While operator A can directly orchestrate and configure its VNFs, operator B needs to control its VNFs in a remoted manner. The challenge here is to enable operator B to configure and control resources in an infrastructure that is owned by another operator. Accordingly, it is assumed that operator B can monitor and control the remote radio resources via the RIC node of site B, using an “E2 remote” interface. Note that in the proposed architecture, the RIC nodes are not shared and kept independent at the site A and B respectively. However, it is assumed that operator B cannot directly orchestrate its VNFs in site A, but it is allowed to communicate the desired initial VNF configuration via an extended O1, O2 interface, hereafter referred to as “O1, O2 + SLA” interface (O1, O2 remote). Note that the O1, O2 nomenclature is used hereafter to refer to both O1 and O2 messages. The “O1, O2 remote” interface is connected to a specific “sharing orchestration application”, referred to as “SMO-sharing App”, that is located at the Service Management & Orchestration Framework of each operator. Specifically, the “SMO- sharing App” at site A acts as an SLA (Service Level Agreement) monitoring and filter entity: it checks that O1, O2 requests coming from operator B are in line with a predefined SLA and finally configures the VNF of operator B, according to the initial O1, O2 request.

### 4.7.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case
1) SMO-sharing App (site A): a) SLA monitoring: checks that orchestration/management requests sent by operator B are in line with the SLA. b) Remote provisioning and initial VNF deployment: asks the IMF to instantiate the VNFs for operator B. c) Remote management operations via “O1, O2 remote”: configures the VNF of operator B via the Orchestrator, according to “O1, O2 remote” requests sent by operator B. d) Forwards RAN related data, collected from the hosted VNFs, to the SMO-sharing App (site B) over the “O1, O2 remote” interface. 2) SMO-sharing App (site B): a) Detects the “SMO-sharing App” in site A towards which to forward “O1, O2 remote” requests. b) Sends “O1, O2 remote” commands for initial deployment and configuration of remote VNFs. c) Forwards RAN related data of operator B, collected in site A, to the Non-RT RIC. 3) IMF (site A): creates VNFs for operator B in site A on initial request of the SMO-sharing App (site A). 4) RAN (site A): a) Supports data collection from the hosted VNFs with radio state report over “E2 remote” interface. b) Supports data collection from hosted VNFs with UE KPI report over “O1, O2 remote” interface. 5) Non-RT RIC (site B): a) Configures the initial network policy template, e.g., default scheduling policy, of the remote VNFs. b) Elaborates RAN data collected by “SMO-sharing App”, e.g., scheduling performance metrics, and sends A1 policy/intentions to the remote virtual O-DU/O-CU (VNF_B) via the Near-RT RIC. 6) Near-RT RIC (site B): a) Monitors and collects E2-related parameters from the remote VNFs. b) Detects the “E2 remote” interface towards the VNFs hosted in site A.

### 4.7.3 Solutions

#### 4.7.3.1 RAN sharing
The context of the RAN sharing use case is captured in table 4.7.3.1-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Enable two operators to share the same O-RAN infrastructure, while allowing Goal them to remotely configure and control the shared resources via a remote “O1”, “O2” and “E2” interface. Sharing-SMO App handles remote orchestration operations via “O1, O2 remote” interface. Non-RT RIC (operator B): updates configuration of VNFs hosted in Actors and Roles site A. Near-RT RIC (operator B): execute remote E2 commands via “E2 remote” interface. RAN (site A): collects and reports RAN statistics to the RIC of operator B (RIC_B) for its VNFs hosted in site A. All relevant functions and components are instantiated. A1, O1, O2, E2 interface connectivity is established with local SMO, Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC, respectively. “O1, O2 remote” and “E2 remote” end-to-end connectivity is established with Assumptions remote SMO and remote Near-RT RIC, respectively. The remote interfaces have been secured through appropriate end-to-end security mechanisms (security configuration details are out of scope of this use case). Non-RT RIC_B and Near-RT RIC_B are aware of the presence of O-DU_B and O-CU_B in the site A. Near-RT RIC_B is aware of the “E2 remote” interface, to be used to control the remote VNFs hosted in site A. An SLA sharing agreement is established between the home (operator A) and host operator (operator B). The SLA defines the amount of physical resources Pre-conditions (CPU, memory, etc.), that can be allocated to the host operator and the type of admissible orchestration operations that can be remotely executed by the host operator. Such SLA is translated in appropriate SLA monitoring-check controls to be executed by the SMO-sharing App. Phase 1-2: Host operator (operator B) asks to provision and instantiate an O- DU_B and O-CU_B in the site of the home operator (operator A). Begins when Phase 3: Host operator wants to send a new instruction to the shared RAN over the “E2 remote” interface. SMO-sharing App_B sends a request to SMO-sharing App_A for provisioning Step 1 (M) and deploying a remote virtual O-DU_B and O-CU_B in the site A. SMO-sharing App_A checks that the request is in line with the predefined SLA Step 2 (M) and ask the IMF (via the Orchestrator) to instantiate the VNFs for the O-CU_B and O-DU_B. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use IMF creates VNF for operator B in site A as for the request of the SMO-sharing Step 3 (O) App_A. SMO-sharing App_B notifies SMO-sharing App_A the request to install a default Step 4 (M) network policy template, e.g., RB scheduling policy, in the remote VNFs. SMO-sharing App_A checks that operator B request is in line with the SLA and Step 5 (M) configures (via the Orchestrator) the O-DU_B/ O-CU_B via an O1 configuration command. RAN related data from VNF_B in site A are collected at SMO Collector and Step 6 (M) forwarded to the SMO-sharing App_A, which in turns forwards them to the Non- RT RIC_B, via the SMO-sharing App_B. Non-RT RIC_B decides to update the default network policy of the remote Step 7 VNFs, e.g., scheduling policy of O-DU_B/O-CU_B and sends an A1 update policy request to the Near-RT RIC_B. Near-RT RIC_B configures the remote O-DU_B/O-CU_B accordingly, over the Step 8 “E2 remote” interface. The VNFs of operator B in site A are instantiated with success and no update- Ends when requests are sent by the host operator (operator B). Exceptions None identified. RIC of operator B monitors relevant radio KPI from the remote O-CU_B and O- Post Conditions DU_B and decides to reconfigure the scheduling policy as for Step 7. The flow diagram of the VNF configuration procedure for VNF_B hosted in site A is given in figure 4.7.3.1-1.

### 4.7.4 Required data
Multi-dimensional data are expected to be handled by the SMO-sharing App: 1) SLA data needs to be converted in a set of condition steps to be matched for each request of the host operator (operator B). 2) SMO needs to handle O1, O2 messages sent by the host operator, converting them in local O1, O2 commands. The RAN of the home operator needs to report to the RIC_B the network state of the served UEs that belong to the host operator.

## 4.8 QoS based resource optimization
This use case provides the background and motivation for the O-RAN architecture to support RAN QoS based resource optimization. Moreover, some high-level description and requirements over Non-RT RIC and A1 interfaces are introduced.

### 4.8.1 Background and goal of the use case
QoS based resource optimization can be used when the network has been configured to provide some kind of preferential QoS for certain users. One such scenario can be related to when the network has been configured to support e2e slices. In this case, the network has functionality that ensures resource isolation between slices as well as functionality to monitor that slice Service Level Specifications (SLS) are fulfilled. In RAN, it is the scheduler that ensures that Physical Resource Block (PRB) resources are isolated between slices in the best possible way and also that the PRB resources are used in an optimal way to best fulfill the SLS for different slices. The desired default RAN behavior for slices is configured over O1. For example, the ratio of physical resources (PRBs) reserved for a slice is configured at slice creation (instantiation) over O1. Also, QoS can be configured to guide the RAN scheduler how to (in real-time) allocate PRB resources to different users to best fulfill the SLS of a specific slice. In the NR NRM this is described by the resource partition attribute. Instantiation of a RAN sub-slice will be prepared by rigorous planning to understand to what extent deployed RAN resources will be able to support RAN sub-slice SLS. Part of this procedure is to configure RAN functionality according to above. With this, a default behavior of RAN is obtained that will be able to fulfill slice SLSs for most situations. However, even through rigorous planning, there will be times and places where the RAN resources are not enough to fulfill SLS given the default configuration. To understand how often (and where) this happens, the performance of a RAN slice will continuously be monitored by SMO. When SMO detects a situation when RAN SLS cannot be fulfilled, Non- RT RIC can use A1 policies to improve the situation. To understand how to utilize A1 policies and how to resolve the situation, the Non-RT RIC will use additional information available in SMO. Take an emergency service as an example of a slice tenant. For this example, it is understood (at slice instantiation) that 50% of the PRBs in an area can be enough to support the emergency traffic under normal circumstances. Therefore, the ratio of PRBs for the emergency users is configured to 50% as default behavior for the pre-defined group of users belonging to the emergency slice. Also, QoS is also configured in CN and RAN so that video cameras of emergency users get a minimum bitrate of 500 kbps. Now, suppose a large fire is ongoing and emergency users are on duty. Some of the personnel capture the fire on video on site. The video streams are available to the emergency control command. Because of the high traffic demand in the area from several emergency users (belonging to the same slice), the resources available for the emergency slice is not enough to support all the traffic. In this situation, the operator has several possibilities to mitigate the situation. Depending on SLAs towards the emergency slice compared to SLAs for other slices, the operator could reconfigure the amount of PRB reserved to emergency slice at the expense of other slices. However, there is always a risk that emergency video quality is not good enough irrespective if all resources are used for emergency users. It might be that no video shows sufficient resolution due to resource limitations around the emergency site. In this situation, the emergency control command decides, based on the video content, to focus on a selected video stream to improve the resolution. The emergency control system gives the information about which users to up- and down- prioritized to the e2e slice assurance function (through e.g. an Edge API) of the mobile network to increase bandwidth for selected video stream(s). Given this additional information, the Non-RT RIC can influence how RAN resources are allocated to different users through a QoS target statement in an A1 policy. By good usage of the A1 policy, the emergency control command can ensure that dynamically defined group of UEs provides the video resolution that is needed.

### 4.8.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case
1) Non-RT RIC: a) Monitor necessary QoS related metrics from network function and other SMO functions. b) Send policies to Near-RT RIC to drive QoS based resource optimization at RAN level in terms of expected behavior. 2) Near-RT RIC: a) Support interpretation and execution of A1 policies for QoS based resource optimization. 3) RAN: a) Support network state and UE performance report with required granularity to SMO over O1 interface. b) Support QoS enforcement based on messages from E2, which are expected to influence RRM behavior.

### 4.8.3 Solutions

#### 4.8.3.1 QoS based resource optimization
The context of the QoS based resource optimization is captured in table 4.8.3.1-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Drive QoS based resource optimization in RAN in accordance with defined Goal policies and configuration. Non-RT RIC: Creates A1 policies. Near-RT RIC: Enforces A1 policies. Actors and Roles RAN: Policy enforcement. SMO: Termination point for O1 interface. All relevant functions and components are instantiated and configured according wanted default behavior. A1 interface connectivity is established with Non-RT RIC. Assumptions O1 interface connectivity is established with SMO. The default configuration will handle most situations. Network is operational with default configuration. SMO has established the data collection and sharing process, and Non-RT RIC Pre-conditions has access to this data. Non-RT RIC analyzes the data from RAN to understand the current resource consumption. Begins when Non-RT RIC observes that resources are close to congestion in a certain area. If needed, Non-RT RIC orders additional RAN observability, SMO configures Step 1 (O) additional observability over O1. Non-RT RIC evaluates RAN resource utilization for all users in a slice in specific Step 2 area. Non-RT RIC asks for additional information from additional SMO functionality, Step 3 e.g. e2e slice assurance function. Non-RT RIC determines dynamic group of users for which QoS target shall be Step 4 changed. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Non-RT issues A1 policy/policies with QoS target based on information from Step 5 other SMO functionality. Non-RT RIC (through O1 observability) understands that situation of resource Ends when constraints within the slice is resolved, and the deployed policies are deleted over A1. Exceptions None identified. Post Conditions The flow diagram of the QoS based resource optimization is given in figure 4.8.3.1-1.

### 4.8.4 Required data
For this use case, different kind of observability need to be reported to Non-RT RIC. First Non-RT RIC shall monitor resource consumption in the area. As long as resource consumption is low, the RAN scheduler will be able to give all users in an area the needed resources. When resource consumption in an area increases above a threshold, the risk of that the default configuration of RAN will not be enough to fulfil the requirements. At this point, the Non-RT RIC need to be able to configure more detailed reporting for individual UEs that the Non-RT RIC is interested in. This detailed observability shall provide the Non-RT RIC better insight in performance for specific users and therefore includes observability of e.g., user throughput and delay. With this more detailed observability, the Non-RT RIC can understand when pre-configured priorities are not enough for the scheduler to solve the problem and when additional (non-RAN) information to solve the prioritization is needed.

## 4.9 RAN slice SLA assurance
The 3GPP standards architected a sliceable 5G infrastructure which allows creation and management of customized networks to meet specific service requirements that can be demanded by future applications, services, and business verticals. Such a flexible architecture needs different requirements to be specified in terms of functionality, performance and group of users which can greatly vary from one service to the other. The 5G standardization efforts have gone into defining specific slices and their Service Level Agreements (SLAs) based on application/service type as specified in 3GPP TS 23.501 [2]. Since network slicing is conceived to be an end-to-end feature that includes the core network, the transport network and the Radio Access Network (RAN), these requirements shall be met at any slice subnet during the life-time of a network slice as specified in 3GPP TS 28.530 [4], especially in RAN side. Exemplary slice performance requirements are specified in terms of throughput, energy efficiency, latency, and reliability at a high level in SDOs such as 3GPP TS 22.261 [1] and GSMA NG.116 [17]. These requirements are defined as a reference for SLA/contractual agreements for each slice, which individually need proper handling in NG-RAN. Although network slicing support is started to be defined with 3GPP Release 15, slice assurance mechanisms in RAN needs to be further addressed to achieve deployable network slicing in an open RAN environment. It is necessary to assure the SLAs by dynamically controlling slice configurations based on slice specific performance information. Existing RAN performance measurements as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6] and information model definitions as specified in 3GPP TS 28.541 [5] are not enough to support RAN slice SLA assurance use cases. This use case is intended to clarify necessary mechanisms and parameters for RAN slice SLA assurance.

### 4.9.1 Background and goal of the use case
In the 5G era, network slicing is a prominent feature which provides end-to-end connectivity and data processing tailored to specific business requirements. These requirements include customizable network capabilities such as the support of very high data rates, traffic densities, service availability and very low latency. According to 5G standardization efforts, the 5G system can support the needs of the business through the specification of several service needs such as data rate, traffic capacity, user density, latency, reliability, and availability. These capabilities are always provided based on a Service Level Agreement (SLA) between the mobile operator and the business customer, which brought up interest for mechanisms to ensure slice SLAs and prevent its possible violations. O-RAN’s open interfaces and AI/ML based architecture will enable such challenging mechanisms to be implemented and help pave the way for operators to realize the opportunities of network slicing in an efficient manner.

### 4.9.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case
1) Non-RT RIC: a) Retrieve RAN slice SLA target from respective entities such as SMO, NSSMF b) Long term monitoring of RAN slice performance measurements c) Training of potential AI/ML models that will be deployed in Non-RT RIC for slow loop optimization and/or Near-RT RIC for fast loop optimization d) Support deployment and update of AI/ML models into Near-RT RIC e) Receive slice control/slice SLA assurance rApps from SMO f) Create A1 policies based on RAN intent A1 feedback g) Retrieve UE specific performance reports h) Send A1 policies and enrichment information to Near-RT RIC to drive slice assurance i) Send O1 reconfiguration requests to SMO for slow-loop slice assurance 2) Near-RT RIC: a) Near real-time monitoring of slice specific RAN performance measurements b) Support deployment and execution of the AI/ML models from Non-RT RIC c) Receive slice SLA assurance xApps from SMO d) Send UE specific performance reports to SMO/Non-RT RIC e) Support interpretation and execution of policies from Non-RT RIC f) Perform optimized RAN (E2) actions to achieve RAN slice requirements based on O1 configuration, A1 policy, and E2 reports 3) E2 nodes: a) Support slice assurance actions such as slice-aware resource allocation, prioritization, etc. b) Support slice specific performance measurements through O1 c) Support slice specific performance reports through E2

### 4.9.3 Solutions

#### 4.9.3.1 Creation and deployment of RAN slice SLA assurance models and control apps
The context of the creation and deployment of RAN slice SLA assurance models and control apps is captured in table 4.9.3.1-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal Training and distribution of the model, or distribution of control apps. Actors and Roles Non-RT RIC, Near-RT RIC, SMO All relevant functions and components are instantiated. Assumptions A1, O1 interface connectivity is established. Near-RT RIC and Non-RT RIC are instantiated with A1 interface and connectivity has been established between them. Pre-conditions O1 interface has been established between SMO and Near-RT RIC. Begins when A RAN slice is activated. Step 1 (M) Non-RT RIC retrieves a RAN slice SLA from SMO (NSSMF). Non-RT RIC starts to collect performance measurements (PMs) via O1. Step 2 and 3 Examples of the PMs are CSI, PRB usage, L2 throughput, RAN latency, etc. are mandatory Step 2a Applicable PMs are specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6]. in case of using the AI/ML model Non-RT RIC starts to collect Enrichment Information (EIs) from external applications. Examples of the external applications are public safety Step 2b (O) application triggering slice priority during an emergency event, or location- based enrichment information, etc. Non-RT RIC analyzes collected PMs and/or EIs for long term monitoring, Step 2c such as during the day or over the weekend. Non-RT RIC does the model training using the collected data in step 2 and Step 3 obtains RAN slice SLA assurance models. In case of using the AI/ML model, Non-RT RIC deploys the trained model Step 4a or 4b is Step 4a internally for slow loop optimization and/or distributes it to the Near-RT RIC mandatory via O2 for fast loop optimization. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use In case of using the control app, the control app is deployed by SMO to Non- Step 4b RT RIC for slow loop optimization and/or Near-RT RIC via O2 for fast loop optimization. Non-RT RIC receives feedback internally or from Near-RT RIC via A1 to Step 5 (M) update the model or control apps based on it. Ends when A RAN slice is deactivated. Exceptions None identified. Post Conditions None identified. The flow diagram of the creation and deployment of RAN slice SLA assurance models and control apps is given in figure 4.9.3.1-1. diagram

#### 4.9.3.2 Slow loop RAN slice SLA optimization
The context of the slow loop RAN slice SLA optimization is captured in table 4.9.3.2-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal Slow loop RAN slice SLA optimization Actors and Roles Non-RT RIC, Near-RT RIC, SMO, RAN All relevant functions and components are instantiated. Assumptions A1, O1, E2 interface connectivity is established. Near-RT RIC and Non-RT RIC are instantiated with A1 interface connectivity being established between them. O1 interfaces are established between SMO and Near-RT RIC, and SMO Pre-conditions and RAN nodes. RAN slice SLA assurance models or control apps have been deployed in Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC respectively. Begins when A RAN slice is activated. Non-RT RIC decides that RAN shall be reconfigured based on long term Config update trends collected via O1 using PMs and/or EIs. Step 1a step 1a or 1b is mandatory Examples of the PMs are layer 2 throughput, PRB usage, CSI, RAN latency. Non-RT RIC decides to create slice specific A1 policies based on RAN slice SLA requirements and/or operator-defined RAN intents, A1 feedback from Near-RT RIC, EI from external app server and O1 based long term trends. Step 1b Policy update The policies include scope identifiers (e.g., S-NSSAI, flow ID, cell ID) and/or policy statements (e.g. slice specific KPI targets). The model or control app in Non-RT RIC requests SMO to update slice Config request Step 2a configuration of Near-RT RIC and/or RAN nodes through O1. SMO sends the updated slice configuration to Near-RT RIC and/or RAN Config delivery nodes via O1. Examples of the slice configuration are the number of Step 2b step 2b or 2c is allocated PRBs, number of flows, slice priorities. mandatory Step 2c Non-RT RIC sends the updated A1 policies to Near-RT RIC. Policy delivery Near-RT RIC and RAN nodes process and execute the updated slice Config configuration. execution Step 3a step 3a or 3b is mandatory Near-RT RIC receives the updated A1 policy, controls RAN nodes based on Policy Step 3b the A1 policy and sends the feedback to Non-RT RIC via A1. execution Ends when A RAN slice is deactivated. Exceptions None identified. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Post Conditions None identified. The flow diagram of the slow loop RAN slice SLA optimization is given in figure 4.9.3.2-1.

#### 4.9.3.3 Fast loop RAN slice SLA optimization
The context of the fast loop RAN slice SLA optimization is captured in table 4.9.3.3-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal Fast loop RAN slice SLA optimization Actors and Roles Non-RT RIC, Near-RT RIC, SMO, RAN Assumptions All relevant functions and components are instantiated. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use A1, O1, E2 interface connectivity is established. Near-RT RIC and Non-RT RIC are instantiated with A1 interface connectivity being established between them. O1 interfaces are established between SMO and Near-RT RIC, and SMO Pre-conditions and RAN nodes. RAN slice SLA assurance models or control apps have been deployed in Near-RT RIC. Begins when A RAN slice is activated. Non-RT RIC decides to generate a policy for Near-RT RIC slice SLA assurance based on RAN slice SLA requirements and/or operator-defined Step 1 RAN intents, A1 feedback from Near-RT RIC, EI from external app server and O1 based long term trends. Near-RT RIC receives slice specific O1 configuration and A1 policies from SMO and Non-RT RIC respectively. The former is static and default, the latter is dynamic, optimized and converted from slice SLA. The policies consist of scope identifiers (e.g., S-NSSAI, flow ID, cell ID) and policy Step 2 statements (e.g., slice specific KPI targets). In case of using EIs, Near-RT RIC also receives the EIs from Non-RT RIC via A1-EI interface. Near-RT RIC starts to collect PMs via E2. Examples of the PMs are CSI, Step 3 PRB usage, L2 throughput, RAN latency, etc. Applicable PMs are specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6]. The model or control app in Near-RT RIC analyzes collected PMs, A1 Step 4 policies from Non-RT RIC (and optionally EIs from A1-EI interface) to guide RAN nodes via E2 to meet the slice SLA. Step 5 Near-RT RIC sends A1 feedback to Non-RT RIC. Ends when A RAN slice is deactivated. Exceptions None identified. Post Conditions None identified. The flow diagram of the fast loop RAN slice SLA optimization is given in figure 4.9.3.3-1.

### 4.9.4 Required data
The data requirements for RAN slice SLA assurance use case are specified below. The required data specified in table 4.9.4-1 shall be supported by the associated interfaces specified in the table. Requirement Category Parameters / Measurements Source Reference Interface Req-4.9.001 CQI related Wideband CQI distribution O-DU 3GPP TS O1 measurements 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.1.11.1 Req-4.9.002 UE throughput Average DL / UL UE throughput in O-DU 3GPP TS O1 related gNB 28.552 [5], measurements clauses Requirement Category Parameters / Measurements Source Reference Interface 5.1.1.3.1, 5.1.1.3.3 Req-4.9.003 UE throughput Scheduled IP throughput in DL/UL O-DU 3GPP TS O1 related 36.314 [6], measurements clauses 4.1.6.1, 4.1.6.2 Req-4.9.004 RRC connection Mean / max number of RRC O-CU 3GPP TS O1 related connections 28.552 [5], measurements clauses 5.1.1.4.1, 5.1.1.4.2 Req-4.9.005 RRC connection Attempted / successful RRC O-CU 3GPP TS O1 related connection establishments 28.552 [5], measurements clauses 5.1.1.15.1, 5.1.1.15.2 Req-4.9.006 DRB related Number of DRBs attempted to / O-CU 3GPP TS O1 measurements successfully setup 28.552 [5], clauses 5.1.1.10.1, 5.1.1.10.2 Req-4.9.007 PDU session Number of PDU sessions O-CU 3GPP TS O1 management requested to / successfully / failed 28.552 [5], related to setup clauses measurements 5.1.1.5.1, 5.1.1.5.2, 5.1.1.5.3 Req-4.9.008 Number of active Mean number of active UEs in the O-DU 3GPP TS O1 UEs UL / DL per cell 28.552 [5], clauses 5.1.1.23.1, 5.1.1.23.3 Req-4.9.009 Radio resource Mean DL / UL PRB used for data O-DU 3GPP TS O1 utilization related traffic 28.552 [5], measurements clauses 5.1.1.2.5, 5.1.1.2.7 Req-4.9.010 PDCP data DL / UL PDCP PDU data volume O-CU 3GPP TS O1 volume 28.552 [5], measurements clauses 5.1.3.6.1.1, 5.1.3.6.1.2 Req-4.9.011 PDCP data Data volume in DL/UL O-CU 3GPP TS O1 volume 36.314 [6], measurements clauses 4.1.8.1, 4.1.8.2 Requirement Category Parameters / Measurements Source Reference Interface Req-4.9.012 Average user UL PDCP packet average delay O-CU 3GPP TS O1 plane delay 28.558 [23], clause 6.3.1.1.5 Req-4.9.013 Average user Average delay DL air-interface O-CU 3GPP TS O1 plane delay 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.1.1.1 Req-4.9.014 Average user Average delay UL on over-the-air O-CU 3GPP TS O1 plane delay interface 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.1.1.3 Req-4.9.015 Average user Average delay DL in gNB-DU O-DU 3GPP TS O1 plane delay 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.3.3.3 Req-4.9.016 Average user Average delay DL on F1-U O-CU 3GPP TS O1 plane delay 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.3.3.2 Req-4.9.017 Average user Average delay DL in CU-UP O-CU 3GPP TS O1 plane delay 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.3.3.1 Req-4.9.018 Average user Average over-the-air interface O-CU 3GPP TS O1 plane delay packet delay in the UL per DRB per 38.314 [7], UE clause 4.2.1.2.2 Req-4.9.019 Average user Average delay DL air-interface O-CU 3GPP TS O1 plane delay 28.558 [23], clause 6.3.1.1.1 Req-4.9.020 Packet drop DL RLC SDU packet drop rate in O-DU 3GPP TS O1 measurements gNB-DU 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.3.2.2 Req-4.9.021 Packet loss rate UL / DL F1-U packet loss rate O-CU 3GPP TS O1 measurements 28.552 [5], clauses 5.1.3.1.2, 5.1.3.1.3 Req-4.9.022 Packet loss rate Packet Uu loss rate in the DL per O-CU 3GPP TS O1 measurements DRB per UE 38.314 [7], clause 4.2.1.5.1 Req-4.9.023 Configuration NRCellCU O-CU 3GPP TS O1 28.541 [4], clause 4.3.4 Req-4.9.024 Configuration NRCellDU O-DU 3GPP TS O1 28.541 [4], clause 4.3.5 Req-4.9.025 Configuration GNBDUFunction O-DU 3GPP TS O1 28.541 [4], clause 4.3.1 Requirement Category Parameters / Measurements Source Reference Interface Req-4.9.026 Configuration GNBCUCPFunction O-CU 3GPP TS O1 28.541 [4], clause 4.3.2 Req-4.9.027 Configuration GNBCUUPFunction O-CU 3GPP TS O1 28.541 [4], clause 4.3.3 Req-4.9.028 Configuration RRMPolicy_ O-CU 3GPP TS O1 28.541 [4], clause 4.3.43

## 4.10 Multi-vendor slices
This use case “multi-vendor slices” is a case that vO-DU and vO-CU functions composing each slice is provided from different vendor. In this sub-clause, concept, motivation and benefits of introducing “multi-vendor slices” are explained and candidate solutions are studied.

### 4.10.1 Background and goal of the use case
Proposed use case enables multiple slices with functions provided from multi-vendors, such as slice #1 is composed with DU and CU provided from vendor A and slice #2 is composed with DU and CU provided from vendor B (see figure 4.10.1-1). To support multi-vendor slicing, there are many possible configurations to realize this use case; all of which share that one O-RU is connected to one or more O-DUs. For example, one possible configuration might be one where a single cell is shared by two O-DUs, and another possible configuration is where two cells are allocated to two different O-DUs in a Shared O-RU configuration. Under those possible configurations, it is desired to keep frequency efficiency. When providing multiple slices, it is assumed that suitable vO-DU/scheduler and vO-CU treat each slice respectively. A vendor who providing vO-DU and vO-CU function can have a strength of a customized scheduler for a certain service. With accomplishment of multi-vendor circumstances, following benefits can be expected. 1) More flexible and time to market deployment Operator can maximize options to choose suitable vO-DU/scheduler and vO-CU to offer various slice. For example, some vendor has a strength of a scheduler for eMBB service and the other has a strength of scheduler for URLLC service. Or vendor A can provide vO-DU/scheduler and vO-CU suitable for URLLC earlier than vendor B, therefore operator can choose vO-DU and vO-CU functions from vendor A to meet their service requirement. Also, when operator will add a new service/slice, new functions from a new vendor can be introduced with less consideration for existing vendor if multi-vendor circumstance was realized. This can lead to expand vendor’s business opportunities rapidly. 2) Flexible deployment when sharing RAN equipment among operators When operators want to share RAN equipment and resources, RAN vendors and their placement of each RAN functions can be different. If multi-vendor circumstance was introduced, then it can relax restrictions among operators to share RAN equipment and resources. This can lead to expand opportunity reaching agreement of RAN sharing among operators. With expansion of RAN sharing, CAPEX and OPEX by operator will be optimized and additional investment can be done more. 3) Reducing supply chain risk If existing vendor providing a certain pair of vO-DU and vO-CU functions would withdraw of their market due to business reason, operator can deploy new vO-DU and vO-CU functions alternatively from other vendor under this multi-vendor circumstance. This can reduce a risk for operators’ business continuity.

### 4.10.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case
1) SMO multi-vendor slice App: a) Configures vO-DU and vO-CU. b) Configures O-RU to connect to vO-DU. 2) Near-RT RIC: a) Shares MAC related data unique for UE among vO-DUs. b) Supports communication of configuration parameters to RAN. 3) E2 nodes (vO-CU, vO-DU, O-RU): a) Primary vO-DU processes SRB (Signalling Radio Bearer), DRB (Data Radio Bearer) and other vO-DU related functions. Secondary vO-DU processes only DRB related functions. Note that vO-DU and vO-CU are created as part of network slice creation procedure.

### 4.10.3 Solutions

#### 4.10.3.1 Data transmission call flow example for multi-vendor slices use case
The context of data transmission call flow example for multi-vendor slices use case is captured in table 4.10.3.1-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal UE communicates on slice #1 and #2 respectively.
- SMO multi-vendor slice App configures vO-DU and v-O-CU with radio
resource assignment (via Orchestrator) and collects KPI data.
- Near-RT RIC configures vO-DU and vO-CU for resource assignment and
Actors and Roles shares MAC related information unique for UE among vO-DUs.
- Primary vO-DU processes SRB (Signalling Radio Bearer), DRB (Data
Radio Bearer). Secondary vO-DU processes only DRB. Assumptions - All relevant functions and components are instantiated. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use
- Slice #1 is created over primary vO-DU and vO-CU with logical channel ID
#1 and #2, and slice #2 is created over secondary vO-DU and vO-CU with logical channel ID #3.
- O-RU is shared between primary vO-DU and secondary vO-DU with one
component carrier.
- CU-CP is shared between primary vO-CU-UP and secondary vO-CU-UP.
- TDD operation is assumed.
- UE tries to transmit data on slice #1 and #2.
- Slice #1 and #2 are created and activated on primary vO-DU, vO-CU and
secondary vO-DU, vO-CU respectively.
- Slice #1 is tied with scheduling request resource 1 and logical channel ID
#1 and #2, and slice #2 is tied with scheduling request resource 2 and logical channel ID #3 Pre-conditions
- Primary vO-DU and secondary vO-DU know which timing/resource block
they can utilize on for slice #1 and #2 respectively by direction from SMO via O1 interface.
- UE has already performed RACH procedure with primary vO-DU.
Begins when UE tries to perform registration procedure with RRC Connection Request message. [UE performs registration procedure] UE sends RRC Connection Request message to primary vO-DU and vO-CU through O-RU. Primary vO-CU and vO-DU responds with RRC Connection Step 1 (M) Setup. UE sends RRC connection Setup Complete message. Primary vO-DU sends initial RRC message and shared information such as C- RNTI to Near RT-RIC. Near RT-RIC determines to transfer it to secondary vO- DU over E2 interface. Other registration procedure is performed. [PDU session establishment] UE starts PDU session establishment procedure with PDU session establishment request message with primary vO-DU and vO-CU. Step 2 (M) UE initiates PDU session establishment procedure with S-NSSAI 2 for slice #2 via primary vO-DU. UE context modification is made at secondary vO-DU. [U-plane data transmission between primary vO-DU and O-RU] At allocated timing/resources, primary vO-DU sends Scheduling Command v02.00 [29], “Figure message to O-RU to start transfer and receive DL and UL Data. 6‑5: C-plane and U- Step 3 (M) plane message UE sends Scheduling Request message on PUCCH with scheduling request transfer procedure (DL resource 1 to primary vO-DU over open fronthaul. & UL shown)” Primary vO-DU responds with UL Grant message to the UE. [Buffer notification and transmission user data] Step 4 (M) UE notices buffer with Buffer Status Request message to primary vO-DU. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Primary vO-DU acknowledges with UL Grant message. UE sends user data on PUSCH with logical channel ID #1 and #2. Primary vO-DU acknowledges with Ack or Nack. UE repeats step 3 until buffer becomes empty. [U-plane data transmission between secondary vO-DU and O-RU] At allocated timing/resources, secondary vO-DU sends Scheduling Command v02.00 [29], “Figure message to O-RU to start transfer and receive DL and UL Data. 6‑5: C-plane and U- Step 5 (M) plane message UE sends Scheduling Request message on PUCCH with scheduling request transfer procedure (DL resource 2 to secondary vO-DU over open fronthaul. Secondary vO-DU & UL shown)” responds with UL Grant message to the UE. [Buffer notification and transmission user data] UE notices buffer with Buffer Status Request message to secondary vO-DU. Secondary vO-DU acknowledges with UL Grant message. Step 6 (M) UE sends user data on PUSCH with logical channel ID #3. Secondary vO-DU acknowledges with Ack or Nack. UE repeats step 5 until buffer becomes empty. [Collect data] Step 7 (M) RAN related data from RAN nodes are collected at SMO Collector via O1 interface. Ends when UE finishes data transmission until buffer becomes empty. Exceptions None identified. Post Conditions None identified The data transmission call flow example for multi-vendor slices use case – part 1 of 2 is given in figure 4.10.3.1-1. The data transmission call flow example for multi-vendor slices use case – part 2 of 2 is given in figure 4.10.3.1-2.

#### 4.10.3.2 Data transmission call flow example for RAN sharing use case
The context of data transmission call flow example for RAN sharing use case is captured in table 4.10.3.2-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal UE communicates on secondary vO-DU and vO-CU with PLMN #2.
- SMO multi-vendor slice App configures vO-DU and v-O-CU with radio
resource assignment (via Orchestrator) and collects KPI data.
- Near-RT RIC configures vO-DU and vO-CU for resource assignment and
Actors and Roles shares MAC related information unique for UE among vO-DUs.
- Primary vO-DU processes SRB (Signalling Radio Bearer), DRB (Data
Radio Bearer). Secondary vO-DU processes only DRB.
- All relevant functions and components are instantiated.
- PLMN #1 is assigned to primary vO-DU and vO-CU, and PLMN #2 is
assigned to secondary vO-DU and vO-CU respectively.
- O-RU is shared between primary vO-DU and secondary vO-DU with one
Assumptions component carrier.
- CU-CP is shared between primary vO-CU-UP and secondary vO-CU-UP.
- TDD operation is assumed.
- UE tries to transmit data with PLMN #2.
- PLMN #1 and #2 are assigned to primary vO-DU, vO-CU and secondary
vO-DU, vO-CU respectively
- Primary vO-DU and vO-CU advertise PLMN #1 and #2 over the air.
Pre-conditions
- Primary vO-DU and secondary vO-DU know which timing/resource block
they can utilize on for PLMN #1 and #2 respectively by direction from SMO via O1 interface.
- UE has already performed RACH procedure with primary vO-DU.
Begins when UE tries to perform registration procedure with RRC Connection Request message. [UE performs registration procedure with PLMN #2] UE sends RRC Connection Request message to primary vO-DU and vO-CU through O-RU. Primary vO-CU and vO-DU responds with RRC Connection Setup. UE sends RRC connection Setup Complete message with PLMN#2 in Step 1 (M) selected PLMN-identity. Primary vO-DU sends initial RRC message with PLMN-identity and shared information such as C-RNTI to Near RT-RIC. Near RT-RIC determines to transfer it to secondary vO-DU over E2 interface. Other registration procedure is performed through secondary vO-DU. [PDU session establishment] Step 2 (M) UE starts PDU session establishment procedure with PDU session establishment request message through secondary vO-DU and vO-CU. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use [U-plane data transmission between secondary vO-DU and O-RU] At allocated timing/resources, secondary vO-DU sends Scheduling Command v02.00 [29], “Figure message to O-RU to start transfer and receive DL and UL Data. 6‑5: C-plane and U- Step 3 (M) plane message UE sends Scheduling Request message on PUCCH with scheduling request transfer procedure (DL resource 2 to secondary vO-DU over open fronthaul. & UL shown)” Secondary vO-DU responds with UL Grant message to the UE. [Buffer notification and transmission user data] UE notices buffer with Buffer Status Request message to secondary vO-DU. Secondary vO-DU acknowledges with UL Grant message. Step 4 (M) UE sends user data on PUSCH with logical channel ID #2. Secondary vO-DU acknowledges with Ack or Nack. UE repeats step 3 until buffer becomes empty. [Collect data] Step 5 (M) RAN related data from RAN nodes are collected at SMO Collector via O1 interface. Ends when UE finishes data transmission until buffer becomes empty. Exceptions None identified. Post Conditions None identified. The data transmission call flow example for RAN sharing use case is given in figure 4.10.3.2-1.

### 4.10.4 Required data
The measurement counters and KPIs (as defined by 3GPP and will be extended for O-RAN use cases) shall be appropriately aggregated by cell, QoS type, slice, etc. 1) Per-UE CSI 2) Per slice performance statistics such as PDCP throughput, PRB usage

## 4.11 Dynamic spectrum sharing (DSS)
This use case provides the background, motivation, and requirements to realize Dynamic Spectrum Sharing (DSS) over the O-RAN architecture. This is to enable operators to adapt radio resource allocation policies and control to dynamically share radio spectrum between 4G and 5G networks.

### 4.11.1 Background and goal of the use case
As we transition from 4G to 5G, the spectral resources used for 5G deployment is a key consideration and this situation varies from one operator to another. Though, new C-band resources between 3-6 GHz and mmWave bands have been acquired by operators, these bands suffer from great propagation and penetration loss, limiting their coverage to those users close to the cell, this situation worsens in the UL as the UE device is power constrained. A cost-effective way to address this is the 5G deployment on lower bands (i.e., below 2GHz), which are also used in 4G LTE deployments today. Operating on lower bands along with non-standalone mode of 5G deployment helps to cover large geography, enables seamless mobility between 4G and 5G while being sensitive to overall cost of deployment. In addition, DSS offers the advantage of dynamically sharing the available spectrum adapting to the varying workloads of the 4G and 5G network. DSS is compelling considering the need for operators to dynamically share already deployed spectral resources between LTE and NR devices without degrading the QoE of the current 4G subscribers while offering the same level of coverage and necessary QoS to NR devices, under the assumption that the two networks will co-exist in the near term. The objective of this use case is to propose DSS in the context of the O-RAN architecture, specifically to realize it as an application in the RIC framework. This would particularly benefit vRAN implementations when the 4G/5G CU/DU are from different vendors and one could leverage RAN data over O-RAN’s framework for traffic prediction, DSS related resource management and conduct control functions. Towards this, the intelligent control functions are identified, which can be realized as a DSS application to augment the L3/L2/L1 control functions specified as part of LTE-NR coexistence in 3GPP TS 23.501 [2] and in 3GPP TS 37.340 [12]. The architectural context set for this discussion is shown in figure 4.11.1-1. DSS enables 4G and 5G UEs to operate over the same spectrum identified as X (typically low band), while 5G itself could operate on new bands Y (typically high band) not used by current 4G deployment. In a typical setting, Y would offer higher capacity, low latency and smaller coverage, while X would be used to offer reasonable capacity along with larger coverage. 3GPP specifications offers DSS support over X2/Xn interface to enable dynamic sharing of the spectrum resource in addition to the L2/L1 adaptation for 5G-NR to co-exist with LTE. Considering the scenario of incremental deployment - in the 5G NSA mode, the 5G UE is required to have dual connectivity capability and be able to connect to eNBs on LTE bands for control plane requirements and user plane connectivity towards the LTE and/or 5G depending on deployment requirements. In the scenario where gNB only operates on 5G C or mmWave bands, the sharing of the LTE frequency band between 4G and 5G UEs can be solely fulfilled by eNB MAC scheduler, as the UE is expected to be dual stacked. While, if the gNB is required to operate on lower LTE bands as well, then spectral sharing needs to be coordinated between the LTE and 5G schedulers. When DSS is enabled in the SA mode, 5G UE would be capable of operating on lower LTE bands (below 2GHz), C and mmWave bands and connects only to the gNBs. The sharing of the LTE bands between LTE and 5G data channels are achieved by both 4G scheduler and 5G scheduler using resource management and interference mitigation functions in the RIC between them. The use case proposes to conduct DSS related policy, configuration, resource management and control functions using the Non-RT and Near-RT functions over open interfaces proposed by O-RAN. An abstracted view of how DSS application can be realized using the Non-Real-Time and Near-Real-Time RIC components is shown in figure 4.11.1-2. The DSS over RIC can be realized as multiple applications considering its multiple optimization and operational objectives. One possible logical breakdown is as a traffic prediction and resource management application (DSS-App) managing the shared spectrum resource adapting to dynamic 4G and 5G specific workload requirements in various local contexts, and another application (RAT-App) to configure, control and monitor DSS related functions in the CU/DU corresponding to the LTE and 5G cells. The DSS-App engineers at the Non-RT RIC level translates the global DSS policies based on workload requirements for a region and time-of-day to spectrum sharing policies such as max/min bandwidth threshold at a local level (e.g. edge or central office). The RAT-App at the Non-RT RIC level also translates the DSS-App’s resource policies to RAT specific configuration and policies at the Near-RT RIC and the CU/DU entities. The DSS-App at the Near-RT RIC uses the data collected by the RAT-App to make dynamic resource sharing decisions that are enforced by the RAT-App using the E2 control APIs. The main goal of the Non-RT DSS-App is to provide long-term scheduling policy to 4G and 5G scheduler considering business, user, spatial and temporal workload factors. The main functionality of Non-RT RAT-App is to translate the global DSS policies from Non-RT DSS-App to RAT specific policies to the RAT-App in the Near-RT RIC over A1. The main functionalities of the Near-RT DSS-App include policy translation between Non-RT DSS-App to RAT specific configuration to the Near-RT RAT-App. Furthermore, it is actively involved in closed loop decision using the KPIs from the RAN adapting to the needs of the 4G and 5G cells. The main functionality of Near-RT RAT-App is to perform RAT specific configuration, control and data subscription over E2 interface with RAN (CU/DU components).

### 4.11.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case
1) Non-RT RIC: a) Receive SMO’s DSS specific service requirement for the RAN and translate them into resource sharing policies. b) Provide long-term policies in terms of scheduling guidance to 4G and 5G scheduler over A1 to Near-RT RIC, considering business, user, spatial and temporal workload factors, policies related to expected performance and actions when it deviates based on KPIs from the 4G and 5G network. c) Develop and train AI/ML models with the help of SMO functions for the Near-RT RIC to predict the short- term traffic demand for 4G and 5G network based on near-real-time metrics from RAN. Deployment of these ML model over O1 and xApps over O2 to the Near-RT RIC. d) Receive policy feedback from Near-RT RIC and update policy and re-train ML models whenever required. 2) Near-RT RIC: a) Support deployment, execution, and ability to update DSS xApps from Non-RT RIC. b) Support interpretation of policies related to RAT specific resource allocation. c) Translate RAT specific SLA policy to configuration, control, and data subscription over E2 interface to E2 nodes (O-CU, O-DU). d) Share resource allocation performance and policy feedback report with Non-RT RIC for further evaluation and optimization over O1/A1. 3) RAN: a) Support discovery of DSS related configuration of E2 nodes over E2 interface. b) Share the data collection over O1 interface. c) Support resource management related metrics collection over E2 interface. d) Support control and policy enforcement from Near-RT RIC over E2 interface.

### 4.11.3 Solutions

#### 4.11.3.1 Dynamic spectrum sharing for 4G and 5G
The context of the dynamic spectrum sharing for 4G and 5G is captured in table 4.11.3.1-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Enable operators to dynamically share spectrum in the existing 4G deployment Goal with 5G systems, based on the dynamic loads of both networks and resource sharing policies. Non-RT RIC: Spectrum resource sharing policy function. Near-RT RIC: Executes resource sharing models and algorithms, translating Actors and Roles RAT specific policy to configuration, control and data subscription over E2 interface with RAN. RAN: Executes resource sharing enforcement rules and policies, collects and reports RAN statistics and performance over E2 and O1. All relevant functions and components are instantiated. DSS xApps are deployed over O1 with initial configuration. Assumptions A1, E2 interface connectivity is established with Non-RT RIC and RAN respectively. Data report, policy and control subscription established on E2 interface. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Network is operational. SMO has established the data collection and sharing interface with Non-RT RIC. Pre-conditions Non-RT RIC analyzes the historical data from RAN, develops, trains with help of SMO functions and deploys the relevant AI/ML models or algorithm as xApps to the Near-RT RIC. Begins when Operator specified trigger condition or event is detected. Near-RT RIC collects DSS related RAN function capabilities and configuration Step 1 (M) parameters from RAN over E2 interface. Non-RT RIC communicates DSS relevant policies to the Near-RT RIC over the Step 2 (M) A1 interface. Near-RT RIC communicates RAT specific DSS relevant configuration, control Step 3 (M) policies to RAN over the E2 interface. RAN deploys the configuration and control policies received from the Near-RT Step 4 (M) RIC over the E2 interface. Near-RT RIC collects relevant observability data from RAN, executes xApp and Step 5 (M) outputs the optimal resource allocation and cell level resource scheduling decisions to RAN over E2 and policy feedback to Non-RT RIC over A1. RAN deploys the updated control policies received from the Near-RT RIC over Step 6 (M) the E2 interface and continues reporting data to SMO over O1 and E2 as configured. Non-RT RIC adjusts the policy based on PM data from SMO and feedback from Step 7 (M) Near-RT RIC. Step 8 (M) Non-RT RIC updates the resource sharing policy to Near-RT RIC over A1. Step 9 (O) Non-RT RIC re-trains/updates the AI/ML model with new data and performance, and deploys the new model or new model configurations to Near-RT RIC. Ends when Operator specified trigger condition or event is satisfied. Exceptions None identified. Non-RT RIC monitors loads and relevant KPI performance metrics of eNB/gNB to observe the resource sharing efficiency and sets up new policies based on the metrics and business needs. Post Conditions Near-RT RIC executes the resource sharing model or algorithm. RAN operates with the scheduling guidance from RIC and reports performance data to RIC. The flow diagram of the dynamic spectrum sharing for 4G and 5G is given in figure 4.11.3.1-1.

### 4.11.4 Required data
Multiple observability data from RAN need to be reported to SMO, Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC for DSS to operate. The required data for DSS use case is captured in table 4.11.4-1. Category Parameters / Measurements RAT Source / Reference Interface 4G/5G DSS Geography location (e.g., cell site) 4G/5G External configuration and server operation parameters DSS modality (static, semi-static (MBSFN), 4G/5G E2 3GPP TS dynamic (sub-frame level)) 38.211 [13], 3GPP TS 38.213 [14] Cell configuration information (e.g., FDD/TDD, 4G/5G E2 3GPP TS band, signaling/RS allocation bitmap) 36.423 [30], 3GPP TS 38.211 [13], 3GPP TS 38.213 [14] Category Parameters / Measurements RAT Source / Reference Interface 4G/5G scheduling Physical resource block 4G/5G E2 3GPP TS information used/reserved/requested/blocked bitmap 36.423 [30] information 4G/5G cell load Number of active UEs (total, UL/DL, per QCI) 4G E2 and O1 3GPP TS statistics 36.314 [31] Mean/Max number of active UEs (DL/UL, total, 5G E2 and O1 3GPP TS per DRB(mapped 5QI)) 38.314 [32], 3GPP TS 32.425 [33] Traffic demand/buffer size (total, per QCI/5QI) 4G/5G E2 and O1 PRB usage (DL, UL, total, per QCI/5QI) 4G/5G E2 and O1 3GPP TS 36.314 [31], 3GPP TS 36.423 [30], 3GPP TS 28.552 [6] PDCCH CCE usage 4G/5G E2 and O1 3GPP TS 36.423 [30] RRC connection number 5G E2 and O1 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], 3GPP TS 32.425 [33] 4G/5G QoS QoS classes 4G/5G E2 3GPP TS configuration and 23.501 [2] (5G), parameters 3GPP TS 36.300 [34], 3GPP TS 23.401 [35], 3GPP TS 23.203 [36] (4G) Slice types 5G E2 3GPP TS 23.501 [2] UE performance Scheduled IP throughput (DL, UL, per QCI) 4G E2 and O1 3GPP TS statistics 36.314 [31] Data volume (DL/UL per CQI) 4G E2 and O1 3GPP TS 36.314 [31] UL/DL PDCP SDU data volume 5G E2 and O1 3GPP TS 28.552 [6] PDCP packet delay DL/UL per CQI/QCI 4G/5G E2 and O1 3GPP TS 36.314 [31] (4G) UE mobility statistics RSRP/RSRQ/SINR/RSSI 4G/5G E2 and O1 3GPP TS 36.214 [37], 3GPP TS 36.331 [38] Category Parameters / Measurements RAT Source / Reference Interface UE location information 45/5G External Server UE capability 4G/5G E2 and O1 3GPP TS 36.331 [38]

## 4.12 NSSI resource allocation optimization
This use case provides the background, motivation, description, and requirements for the NSSI resource allocation optimization use case, allowing operators to optimize the allocation resources to NSSI(s) with wide range service requirements.

### 4.12.1 Background and goal of the use case
5G networks are becoming increasingly complex with the densification of millimeter wave small cells, and various new services, such as eMBB (enhanced Mobile Broadband), URLLC (Ultra Reliable Low Latency Communications), and mMTC (massive Machine Type Communications) that are characterized by high speed high data volume, low speed ultra- low latency, and infrequent transmitting low data volume from huge number of emerging smart devices, respectively. It is a challenging task for 5G networks to allocate resources dynamically and efficiently among multiple network nodes to support the various services. However, as eMBB, URLLC, and mMTC services in 5G are typically realized as NSI (Network Slice instance). Therefore, the resources allocated to NSSI (Network Slice Subnet Instance) to support the O- RAN nodes can be optimized according to the service requirements. As the new 5G services have different characteristics, the network traffic tends to be sporadic, where there can be different usage pattern in terms of time, location, UE distribution, and types of applications. For example, most IoT sensor applications can run during off-peak hours or weekends. Special events, such as sport games, concerts, can cause traffic demand to shoot up at certain time and locations. Therefore, NSSI resource allocation optimization function trains the AI/ML model, based on the huge volume of performance data collected over days, weeks, months from O-RAN nodes. It then uses the AI/ML model to predict the traffic demand patterns of 5G networks in different times and locations for each network slice, and automatically re-allocates the network resources ahead of the network issues surfaced. The resource quota policies associated with RAN NFs (E2 nodes) included in the respective NSSIs enable 5G network providers to optimize or prioritize the utilization of the RAN resources across slices and supports the flexibility to share resources optimally across critical service slices during resource surplus or scarcity. For example, an NSSI allocated for premium service can receive a major share of the resources compared to a slice allocated for a standard/best-effort service. Another such example is the scenario of additional resource allocation for emergency services. An important consideration here is that the NSSI resource quota policies focus on maximization of resource utilization across the NSSIs. The resource quota policies can be used as a constraint for resource allocation that defines the range of resources that can be allocated per slice. One use case for applying such a constraint is the analysis and decision based on history of resource allocation failure that can be reflected in the RAN node measurements. Here resource quota policy can be provisioned to control the minimum, maximum and dedicated resources that need to be allocated based on the historical pattern. The NSSI resource allocation optimization on the Non-RT RIC is shown in figure 4.12.1-1, and can consist of the following steps: 1) Monitoring: monitor the radio network(s) by collecting data via the O1 interface, for example including the following performance measurements that are measured on per S-NSSAI (3GPP TS 28.552 [6] shall apply):
- Mean DL PRB used for data traffic (3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.2.5 shall apply)
- Mean UL PRB used for data traffic (3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.2.7 shall apply)
- Average DL UE throughput in gNB (3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.3.1 shall apply)
- Average UL UE throughput in gNB (3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.3.3, shall apply)
- Number of PDU sessions requested to setup (3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.5.1 shall apply)
- Number of PDU sessions successfully setup (3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.5.2 shall apply)
- Distribution of DL UE throughput in gNB (3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.3.2 shall apply)
- Distribution of UL UE throughput in gNB (3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.3.4 shall apply)
- Number of DRBs successfully setup (3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.10.2 shall apply)
> NOTE 1: The above measurements are indicative and are subject to change based on the progress of this use
case in O-RAN.
> NOTE 2: Monitoring of the measurements related to O-Cloud (or transport network) that can be required for
NSSI resource optimization is not defined in the present document. 2) Analysis & decision: consisting of the following steps: 2a. Utilize AI/ML models to analyze the measurements and predict the future traffic demand, including the RRMPolicyRatio IOC limits, for each NSSI for a given time and location. 2b. Determine the actions needed to add or reduce the resources (e.g. capacity, VNF resources, slice subnet attributes (3GPP TS 28.541 [5] shall apply, etc.) for the RAN NFs (E2 nodes included in the respective NSSI at the given time, and location. 3) Execution: execute the actions to reallocate the NSSI resources that include: 3a. Re-configure the NSSI attributes, including RRMPolicyRatio IOC (3GPP TS 28.541 [5] shall apply) via the OAM Functions in SMO which uses O1 interface to configure the E2 nodes. 3b. Update the cloud resources via the O2 interface. Service management & Orchestration Framework Non-RT RIC NSSI Resource Allocation Optimization O-Cloud M&O 2. analysis & decision 1. monitoring A1 O2 3.a. execution O1 Near-RT RIC E2 E2 Network functions O-CU- O-CU- UP E1 CP E2 F1-U F1-C O-DU Open Fronthaul interface O-RU O-Cloud For association of resource quota policies for the RAN NFs (E2 nodes) per NSSI or group of NSSIs, RRMPolicyRatio IOC (realization of abstract IoC RRMPolicy_) is currently being specified in 3GPP TS 28.541 [5] which allows definition of maximum, minimum and dedicated values for the percentage of resources to be used per RRMPolicyMemberList – that is group of members with specific plmnID and sNSSAI (applied at NRCellDU, NRCellCU, GNBDUFunction, GNBCUCPFunction or in GNBCUUPFunction) via RRMPolicyManagedEntity.

### 4.12.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case
1) SMO: a) Pre-provision the default NSSI resource quota policy as constraint for NSSI resource allocation optimization. This information is optionally used by the Non-RT RIC in case the resource quota that needs to be allocated per slice is not specified during the slice creation and for conflict resolution at the time of resource scarcity. 2) Non-RT RIC: a) Collect the performance measurements related to NSSI resource usage from the O-RAN nodes via the O1 interface. b) Train the AI/ML model based on the analysis of historical performance measurements, to predict of the traffic demand patterns of NSSI at different times and locations. c) Determine the time/date and locations (i.e. which O-RAN nodes) to add or reduce the resources (e.g. capacity, VNF resources, slice subnet attributes (3GPP TS 28.541 [5] shall apply), RRMPolicyRatio IOC, etc.) for a given NSSI based on inference. d) Perform the following action(s) to optimize the NSSI resource allocation, at the time determined by the model. i. Re-configure the NSSI attributes via the O1 interface. ii. Update the cloud resources via the O2 interface. 3) RAN nodes (O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU, O-RU): a) Support the performance measurement collection with required granularity over O1 interface. b) Support the configuration related to the NSSI resource allocation update over O1 interface.

### 4.12.3 Solutions

#### 4.12.3.1 NSSI resource allocation optimization
The context of the NSSI resource allocation optimization is captured in table 4.12.3.1-1. <<Uses>> Use Case stage Evolution/Specification Related use Goal To automatically optimize the NSSI resource allocation by leveraging the AI/ML model that was trained via the analysis of performance measurements collected from the RAN nodes. Actors and Roles SMO: Pre-Provision the default resource quota policy as constraint for resource allocation optimization and monitor runtime context change. Non-RT RIC: Analysis of performance measurements and AI/ML model training RAN nodes (O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU, O-RU): performance measurements collection and configuration changes execution. O-Cloud M&O: The cloud resources modification via the O2 interface. OAM functions: Part of SMO which manages the O1 based OAM functionality. O-Cloud: Manages virtualization infrastructure and virtualized resources. Assumptions - All relevant functions and components are instantiated.
- Non-RT RIC is able to receive performance measurements from RAN nodes via
the O1 interface. Pre-conditions - RAN is operational.
- OAM function is pre-provisioned with default NSSI resource quota policy - Non-
RT RIC has been collecting the RAN performance measurements from RAN nodes. Begins when An AI/ML model has been trained based on the analysis of performance measurements predict of the traffic demand patterns of NSSI at different times and locations, resource quora per slice. Step 1 (M) Non-RT RIC collects the RAN performance measurements from RAN nodes. Step 2 (M) i. Non-RT RIC utilizes the AI/ML models to analyze the measurements and predict future the traffic demand for each NSSI for a given time and location. ii. Non-RT RIC determines the action based on model inference to update the NSSI resources that can include the following information: a) the time/date b) locations (e.g. gNB ID) c) NSSI ID d) slice subnet attributes e) VNF resources update (e.g. scaling in/out) f) NSSI resource quota policy to be enforced per slice over O1 interface Step 3 (M) Non-RT RIC executes the action at the time determined by the model inference by performing the following operations: a) Re-configure the slice subnet attributes, including RRMPolicyRatio IOC (3GPP TS 28.541 [5] shall apply) via the OAM functions in SMO which uses O1 interface to configure the E2 nodes. b) Request O-Cloud M&O to update the O-Cloud resources via the O2 interface. The execution of these steps is carried out by SMO based on the recommendation of the Non-RT RIC. Ends when All the steps identified above are successfully completed. Exceptions One of the steps identified above fails. Post Conditions Near-RT RIC continues monitoring the NSSI resource usages. The flow diagram of the NSSI resource allocation optimization is given in figure 4.12.3.1-1.

### 4.12.4 Required data
The measurement counters, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], which are measured on per S-NSSAI include:
- Mean DL PRB used for data traffic (3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.2.5 shall apply)
- Mean UL PRB used for data traffic (3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.2.7 shall apply)
- Average DL UE throughput in gNB (3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.3.1 shall apply)
- Average UL UE throughput in gNB (3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.3.3 shall apply)
- Number of PDU sessions requested to setup (3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.5.1 shall apply)
- Number of PDU sessions successfully setup (3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.5.2 shall apply)
- Distribution of DL UE throughput in gNB (3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.3.2 shall apply)
- Distribution of UL UE throughput in gNB (3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.3.4 shall apply)
- Number of DRBs successfully setup (3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.10.2 shall apply)
> NOTE: The above measurements are indicative and are subject to change based on the progress of this use case
in O-RAN. The monitoring of the measurements related to O-Cloud (or transport network) that can be required for NSSI resource optimization is not defined in the present document.

## 4.13 Local indoor positioning in RAN
This use case provides the background and motivation for the O-RAN architecture to support local indoor positioning.

### 4.13.1 Background and goal of the use case
Real-time indoor positioning based on cellular network has aroused attention with the development of 5G vertical industries, individuals and operators. NR positioning is introduced by 3GPP Rel.16. The Location Management Function (LMF) resides in core network request the NG-RAN node to report positioning measurements, which is used by LMF to compute the location of UE. The messages between LMF and the NG-RAN need the AMF to route transparently. However, this long route messages between the NG-RAN node and centralized LMF can suffer network jitters and leads to un-real- time UE location results. The main objective is to ensure local positioning be supported within the O-RAN architecture and its open interfaces. In the context of O-RAN architecture, the positioning function can be deployed as a positioning xApp in the Near-RT RIC. The positioning xApp computes the UE location and optional velocity based on the positioning measurement obtained via the E2 interface. The local indoor positioning results can be acquired via positioning xApp to support positioning applications (e.g., indoor navigation, electric security fence, etc.).

### 4.13.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case
1) Non-RT RIC: a) Retrieve necessary positioning-related indicators (e.g., RSSI, labeled user location by manual or by minimal drive test, etc.) from positioning measurement report or network level measurement report or enrichment information from SMO (can acquire data from application). The data is for constructing/training relevant AI/ML model that will be deployed in Near-RT RIC to assist in the position computation function. b) Training of potential ML models for real-time positioning optimization, which can be used to compute the position, correct positioning errors, and predict motion. c) Send policies/intents to Near-RT RIC to drive the positioning optimization at RAN level. 2) Near-RT RIC: a) Support selection of positioning algorithms (e.g., according to QoS requirements, etc.). b) Support the calculation of positioning results based on the measurements from RAN. c) Support update of AI/ML models from Non-RT RIC. d) Support execution of the AI/ML models from Non-RT RIC, e.g., positioning result calculation. e) Sending positioning results to Non-RT RIC for evaluation and optimization. 3) RAN: a) Support positioning related measurement report over E2 interface. b) Support positioning related measurement report over O1 interface. 4) Application server: a) Request/subscribe RAN analytics information from Near-RT RIC. b) Support positioning related enrichment information (e.g., labeled user location by manual or by minimal drive test, etc.) to SMO.

### 4.13.3 Solutions

#### 4.13.3.1 Local indoor positioning in RAN (1)
The context of the local indoor positioning in RAN (1) is captured in table 4.13.3.1-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal Expose positioning results to external applications. Actors and Roles Near-RT RIC, SMO, application server Assumptions All relevant functions and components are instantiated. Editor’s note: Security related procedure is not defined in the present Pre-conditions document. The application server wants to request/subscribe RAN positioning Begins when results of target UE. Application server sends positioning request of target UE to Near-RT RIC Step 1 (M) or subscribes positioning results from Near-RT RIC to get periodic or event triggered position reporting. Near-RT RIC receives the request or subscription from application server and requests or subscribes measurements to RAN through E2 interface. Step 2 (M) The Near-RT RIC selects the positioning algorithm based on the request or the measurement data from RAN. RAN reports the measurements to Near-RT RIC according to the request Step 3 (M) or subscription. Near-RT RIC calculates the positioning results based on the Step 4 (M) measurement report from RAN, using the selected positoning algorithm. Near-RT RIC sends the response or notification command to expose Step 5 (M) radio performance analytics towards application server. Application server gets response or sends subscription deletion toward Ends when the Near-RT RIC. Exceptions None identified. The flow diagram of the local indoor positioning in RAN (1) is given in figure 4.13.3.1-1.

#### 4.13.3.2 Local indoor positioning in RAN (2)
The context of the local indoor positioning in RAN (2) is captured in table 4.13.3.2-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal Expose positioning results to external applications. Actors and Roles Non-RT RIC, Near-RT RIC, SMO, application server All relevant functions and components are instantiated. Assumptions A1/O1 interface connectivity is established with Non-RT RIC. Positioning related models have been deployed in Non-RT RIC and Near- RT RIC respectively. Pre-conditions Editor’s note: Security related procedure is not defined in the present document. The application server wants to request/subscribe RAN positioning results Begins when of target UE. Application server sends positioning request of target UE to Near-RT RIC Step 1 (M) or subscribes positioning results from Near-RT RIC to get periodic or event triggered position reporting. Near-RT RIC receives the request or subscription from application server and requests or subscribes measurements to RAN through E2 interface. Step 2 (M) The Near-RT RIC selects the positioning algorithm based on the request or the measurement data from RAN and can update the positioning related models from Non-RT RIC. RAN reports the measurements to Near-RT RIC according to the request Step 3 (M) or subscription. Near-RT RIC calculates the positioning results based on the positiong Step 4 (M) report from RAN, usingthe selected positoning algorithm. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Near-RT RIC sends the response or notification command to expose radio Step 5 (M) performance analytics towards application server. Near-RT RIC can also pass the positioning results to the Non-RT RIC for further analysis. Application server gets response or sends subscription deletion toward the Ends when Near-RT RIC. Exceptions None identified. The flow diagram of the local indoor positioning in RAN (2) is given in figure 4.13.3.2-1.

### 4.13.4 Required data
Multi-dimensional data are expected to be retrieved by Non-RT RIC for AI/ML model training and policies/intents generation. 1) Network level measurement report, including UE level radio channel information, mobility related metrics, e.g., RSRP, RSSI, etc. 2) Positioning measurement report, including UE level E-CID, OTDOA, UTDOA, TOA, RSSI, AOA, etc. 3) Enrichment information (optional) collected from SMO (can acquire data from application), can including labeled user location by manual or by minimal drive test, etc. Near-RT RIC required data to select the positioning algorithm and calculate the positioning results. 1) Positioning measurement report, including UE level E-CID, OTDOA, UTDOA, TOA, RSSI, AOA, etc. 2) Performance requirements in positioning requests (optional) such as QoS.

#### 4.13.4.1 RAN analytics information
Radio performance analytics data are expected to be exposed by Near-RT RIC to application server. 1) UE positioning results, including location coordinates, coordinate system, position methods used (in the case of success indication provided), failure cause (in the case of failure indication provided), achieved location QoS accuracy (optional). 2) Velocity estimation (optional).

## 4.14 Massive SU/MU-MIMO grouping optimization
Void

## 4.15 O-RAN signalling storm protection
This use case provides the background, motivation, and requirements for the O-RAN signaling storm protection use case, allowing protecting the mobility network against signaling storms initiated by devices.

### 4.15.1 Background and goal of the use case
Society is increasingly dependent on network connectivity at any time and in any place and increasing diversity of device types ranging from complex devices such as smart phone to very simple and low-cost IoT devices are connecting to the network. The sheer number of connected devices, as well as the wide range of device types, makes the mobility network subject to accidental or intentional attacks that can disrupt the regular usage of the network. Given that life-critical applications are moving to wireless networks, such network disruptions are not only an inconvenience but can have impact on life and health of individuals. The O-RAN architecture offers an opportunity to address such security challenges in customizable and creative ways by utilizing the Near-RT RIC xApps and Non-RT RIC rApps. Currently, the main defense mechanism standardized in 3GPP against attacks coming from the devices toward the network is based on configuration of the devices themselves and trust that the devices will indeed comply with restrictions defined by mobility standards. One such defense mechanism is the back-off timer that restricts the number of repeated device registrations, thus preventing devices from overloading the network with attaches. If this trust is breached there are no other options for defending the network rather than rejecting (denying service) randomly to both benign and malicious devices, a state which is equivalent to DDoS. Unfortunately, even today the network has few hundreds of device types that under certain conditions accidently breach this trust and allow devices to aggressively attach to the network in a rate of few thousand times per hour (the maximum allowed number by standard is less than 20 attaches per hour). An attacker that finds a way to manipulate vulnerabilities in a large set of these devices remotely can cause an attach storm that could lead to a long outage of large parts of the network. Furthermore, this attacker can continue this attack over many hours, each time picking few thousand of devices from a large pool of millions of vulnerable devices connected to the same carrier network; the network carrier will not be able to stop this attack without intelligent and fine-grained controls to act against a certain patterns of behavior. Fortunately detecting these aggressive devices is possible as their behavior is very different from the other devices in the network. What the network really needs is to apply dynamic restriction over these devices to prevent them from overloading the control plane of the network. This restriction should be smart enough to still allow benign devices to register to the network without interruption. Having smart security control at the RAN can stop such attack and without overloading deeper parts of the network in the core. The goal of this use case is utilizing O-RAN to detect and mitigate signaling storms DDoS quick and as close to the network edge, thus minimizing affected network nodes. The Near-RT RIC would detect these signaling storms by analyzing signaling events from RAN nodes it controls. When such a storm is detected the Near-RT RIC creates fine grained filters, which cover the aggressive UEs that cause the storm. These UEs registration requests will then be blocked/throttled while the behaving UEs will continue to get service as usual. In some cases, the attack can be spread across many locations. It could be that the volume of signaling per location has not crossed a critical threshold but the moderate increase in many locations do cause an overload of central nodes such as the network core elements. In this case a network-wide view is required; thus, the Non-RT performs the network-wide analysis and in the case of a network signaling storm, it pushes policies to the local Near-RT RIC to adjust detection parameters to reduce the moderate increase of signaling from a set of one or more E2 nodes. This combined view of both Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC ensures quick reaction to local signaling storms as well as response to widely distributed attacks. While flows in this use case focus on the signaling storm scenario, they could be easily extended to include other attack scenarios both in terms of detection and mitigation. For example, the scenario where rogue devices report false CQI measurements that indicate high values while the real channel quality is poor. When exploited by attackers and applied to large set of devices this attack can cause to waste of radio resources and eventually to DoS. Detection of the attack can be achieved by analyzing anomalous CQI reports, or abnormal volume of NACK messages based on signaling messages. For mitigation actions either rejecting the rogue devices or limiting radio resources can be applied.

### 4.15.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case
1) Non-RT RIC in SMO domain: a) Maintains overall view of network wide phenomenon of signaling storms using signaling storm detection rApp. The detection of distributed signaling storms that spread over many geographical locations and are more difficult to be observed locally. This overall view is broken down by location and corresponding policies are pushed to specific instances of Near-RT RIC to respond to abnormal signaling activity in affected geographical areas, over the A1 interface. b) Uses enrichment data from non-RAN source (i.e., 5G core or probing framework) to maintain global view and support more accurate detection and classification of attacks. c) Utilizes AI/ML models in the signaling storm detection rApp that monitor network-level signaling behavior to support signaling anomalies detection. 2) Near-RT RIC in RAN domain: a) Monitors E2 interface for connection establishment messages and identifies abnormal levels of signaling activity using the signaling storm detection xApp. b) Signaling storm mitigation xApp utilizes policies over E2 to enforce appropriate mitigation action (e.g., reject, throttle, alert) over misbehaving UEs connection establishment. c) Signaling storm detection xApp utilizes AI/ML models that monitor cell-level signaling behavior to support signaling anomalies detection. d) Applies appropriate detection policy based on policies received from Non-RT RIC (e.g., false-positive levels, UE thresholds, throttling ratios). 3) E2 nodes in RAN domain: a) Support sending connection establishment messages over the E2 interface. b) Support control and policy enforcement from Near-RT RIC over E2 interface

### 4.15.3 Solutions

#### 4.15.3.1 Mode 1 – Local signaling storm protection policy
The context of the local signaling storm protection policy is captured in table 4.15.3.1-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Detect localized signaling storms based on “default parameters” and apply Goal policy to mitigate the attack. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Near-RT RIC: Detection of local cell-level signaling storms; execution of mitigation policies and controls, maintenance of cell-level normal behavior models. Actors and Roles E2 nodes: Execute mitigation policies, collects and reports RAN signaling events and policy specific statistics over E2. All relevant functions and components are instantiated. Signaling storms detection and signaling storm mitigation xApps are deployed over E2 with initial configuration. Assumptions E2 interface connectivity is established with Non-RT RIC and RAN respectively. Data report, policy and control subscription established on E2 interface. Network is operational. SMO has established the data collection and sharing interface with Non-RT RIC. Pre-conditions Near-RT RIC already established relevant detection mechanisms of normal signaling behavior and adjusted detection parameters accordingly. Non-RT RIC analyzes the historical data from RAN, develops, trains with help of SMO functions and deploys the models or algorithm as part of the signaling storm detection xApp to the Near-RT RIC. Begins when Network is in normal state (attack is described later on). Signaling storm detection xApp subscribes on connection establishment Step 1 (M) signaling messages report from the RAN over the E2 interface. Step 2 (M) E2 node sends report to signaling storm detection xApp. Near-RT RIC signaling storm detection xApp monitors reports to detect Step 3 (M) aggressive UEs that act with abnormal signaling. UEs send establish connection messages and E2 node accepts these Steps 4-7 (M) requests. Step 8 (M) E2 node sends a connection establishment reports. Step 9 (M) Signaling storm detection xApp detects aggressive activity. Step 10 (M) Signaling storm detection xApp updates signaling storm mitigation xApp. Near-RT RIC signaling storm mitigation xApp creates a filter to block/throttle signaling messages from the aggressive UEs. Filter is applied in the E2 nodes Step 11 (M) as POLICY + REPORT to track filter activity. Near-RT RIC shall notify the Non- RT RIC to avoid conflicts. Step 12 (M) Aggressive UE sends connection establishment message. E2 node evaluate policy with respect to the connection establishment Step 13 (M) message. Step 14 (M) E2 node rejects/throttles connection establishment request. Step 15 (M) Near-RT RIC signaling storm mitigation xApp receives relevant signaling messages that the POLICY filter blocked/ throttled to track changes in attack <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use status and aggressive devices (list of UEs blocked, blocked signaling volume, trend). Near-RT RIC signaling storm mitigation xApp is finds that some devices are no Step 16 (M) longer aggressive or no longer present. It decides to update filter by updating the E2 node POLICY. Near-RT RIC signaling storm detection xApp detects a new set of aggressive Step 17-19 (M) devices and updates the signaling storm mitigation xApp, which updates the filter by updating the E2 node POLICY. Near-RT RIC signaling storm mitigation xApp evaluates signaling level and Step 20-21 (M) decides that there is no more aggressive UE activity. The xApp removes the E2 node policy. Ends when Attack is over and signaling messages level is back to normal. Exceptions None identified. Post Conditions Return to normal signaling activity monitoring (step 1). The flow diagram of the local signaling storm protection policy is given in figure 4.15.3.1-1.

#### 4.15.3.2 Mode 1 – Local signaling storm protection insert-control (optional)
The context of the local signaling storm protection insert-control is captured in table 4.15.3.2-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Detect localized signaling storms based on “default parameters” and apply Goal control to mitigate the attack. Near-RT RIC: Detection of local cell-level signaling storms; execution of mitigation policies and controls, maintenance of cell-level normal behavior Actors and Roles models. E2 nodes: Execute UE level mitigation policies, collects and reports RAN signaling events and policy specific statistics over E2. All relevant functions and components are instantiated. Signaling storms detection and signaling storm mitigation xApps are deployed over E2 with initial configuration. Assumptions E2 interface connectivity is established with Non-RT RIC and RAN respectively. Data report, policy and control subscription established on E2 interface. Network is operational. SMO has established the data collection and sharing interface with Non-RT RIC. Pre-conditions Near-RT RIC already established relevant detection mechanisms of normal signaling behavior and adjusted detection parameters accordingly. Non-RT RIC analyzes the historical data from RAN, develops, trains with help of SMO functions and deploys the models or algorithm as part of the signaling storm detection xApp to the Near-RT RIC. Begins when Network is in normal state (attack is described later on). Signaling storm detection xApp subscribes on connection establishment Step 1 (M) signaling messages report from the RAN over the E2 interface. Step 2 (M) E2 node sends report to signaling storm detection xApp. Near-RT RIC signaling storm detection xApp monitors reports to detect Step 3 (M) aggressive UEs that act with abnormal signaling. UEs send establish connection messages and E2 node accepts these Steps 4-7 (M) requests. Step 8 (M) E2 node sends a report indicating aggressive devices behavior. Step 9 (M) Signaling storm detection xApp detects aggressive activity. Step 10 (M) Signaling storm detection xApp updates signaling storm mitigation xApp. Signaling storm mitigation xApp updates subscription to INSERT-CONTROL. Step 11 (M) Use control filter to block/throttle aggressive UEs by rejecting some of the messages. Step 12 (M) E2 node receives another connection establishment from an aggressive UE. Step 13 (M) E2 node forwards the message to the signaling storm mitigation xApp. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Signaling storm mitigation xApp determines that message is from an Step 14 (M) aggressive device. Signaling storm mitigation xApp sends a reject/throttle message to the E2 Step 15 (M) node. Step 16 (M) E2 node rejects/throttles connection establishment request. Step 17 (M) Signaling storm mitigation xApp continues to monitor its control filter. Near-RT RIC DDoS mitigation xApp evaluates signaling level and decides that Step 18 (M) there is no more aggressive UE activity. The xApp updates subscription back to REPORT. Ends when Attack is over and signaling messages level is back to normal. Exceptions None identified. The flow diagram of the local signaling storm protection insert-control is given in figure 4.15.3.2-1.

#### 4.15.3.3 Mode 2 – Distributed signaling storm protection
The context of the distributed signaling storm protection is captured in table 4.15.3.3-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Detect distributed signaling using Non-RT RIC and A1 policy initiates mode 2 Goal handling in Near-RT RIC with “stricter parameters” mitigation. Non-RT RIC: Detection of network-level distributed signaling storms, maintenance of cell-level, network slice level and node level normal behavior models. Near-RT RIC: Detection of local cell-level signaling storms; execution of Actors and Roles mitigation policies and controls, maintenance of cell-level normal behavior models. RAN: Executes UE level or network slice level mitigation policies, collects and reports RAN signaling events and policy specific statistics over E2. All relevant functions and components are instantiated. Signaling storms detection and signaling storms mitigation xApps are deployed over E2 with initial configuration. Assumptions A1, E2 interface connectivity is established with Non-RT RIC and RAN respectively. Data report, policy and control subscription established on E2 interface. Network is operational. SMO has established the data collection and sharing interface with Non-RT RIC. Pre-conditions Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC already established relevant detection mechanisms of normal signaling behavior and adjusted detection parameters accordingly. Non-RT RIC analyzes the historical data from RAN, develops, trains with help of SMO functions and deploys the models or algorithm as xApps to the Near-RT RIC. Begins when Network is in normal state when (attack is described later on). OAM functions start to collect Enrichment Information (EIs) from external Step 1 (M) sources (e.g. network core probing framework). Step 2 (M) OAM functions start to collect alarms & metrics from E2 nodes. OAM functions sends signaling statistics based on collected information to Step 3 (M) Non-RT RIC. Non-RT RIC uses AI/ML model to analyze overall network signaling activity Step 4 (M) levels based on signaling statistics. Non-RT RIC applies initial configurations to all Near-RT RIC elements regarding detection and mitigation parameters, including: accepted signaling Step 5 (M) volume thresholds, throttle/block ratio, accepted false negative levels, filter pause periods, etc. Non-RT RIC detects distributed signaling storm activity originated from a list of Step 6 (M) locations. Non-RT RIC updates configuration to a stricter one in the relevant Near-RT RIC Step 7 (M) locations over A1 interface. Near-RT RIC performs detection and mitigation as described in 3.15.3.1 or Step 8 (M) 3.15.3.2 with stricter configuration (e.g. lower thresholds). <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Non-RT RIC determines that distributed signaling storm attack is over based Step 9 (M) on signaling statistics information. Non-RT RIC updates Near-RT RICs back to initial configuration parameters Step 10 (M) over the A1 interface. Near-RT RIC signaling storm detection xApp observed aggressive behavior Step 11 (M) where temporal identifiers cannot be correlated with the underlying devices. Step 12 (M) Near RT RIC alarms the OAM functions over O1. Step 13 (M) OAM functions report suspicious behavior to Non-RT RIC. Non-RT RIC sends enrichment information to Near-RT RIC over A1-EI to Step 14 (M) support detection of aggressive devices. Near-RT RIC performs detection and mitigation as described in 3.15.3.1 or Step 15 (M) 3.15.3.2 with stricter configuration (e.g. lower thresholds). Non-RT RIC evaluates data and decides that there is no more distributed Step 16 (M) signaling storm activity. Non-RT updates configuration of relevant Near-RT RICs over the A1 back to Step 17 (M) normal. Ends when Attack is over and signaling messages level is back to normal. Exceptions None identified. Non-RT RIC monitors network-level signaling messages statistics. Post Conditions Near-RT RIC monitors cell-level signaling messages statistics. The flow diagram of the distributed signaling storm protection is given in figure 4.15.3.3-1.

### 4.15.4 Required data
The measurement counters, detection within the Near-RT RIC is based upon analyzing per UE connection establishment messages events that include the following data: 1) Basic registration event parameters: timestamp, cell ID, temporary ID (e.g., C-RNTI, 5G-GUTI) 2) RAN parameters to correlate between a UE and registration events: e.g. RSRP/RSRQ, timing advance, beam ID Tracking status of ongoing attack by monitoring statistics of active filters that include the following data: 3) Number of UEs in the filter, number of requests blocked, trend (change over last x periods of time) Enrichment information from a non-RAN source regarding network-wide DDoS information: 4) Overloaded regions, overloaded sites, severity (% above normal)

## 4.16 Congestion prediction and management
Void

## 4.17 Industrial IoT optimization
Void

## 4.18 BBU pooling to achieve RAN elasticity
Void

## 4.19 Integrated SON function within the O-RAN framework
This use case provides the motivation, description, and requirements for enabling the O-RAN framework to support a minimum SON function set. This use case enables realization of SON functions in the O-RAN architectural framework to help operators address issues seen from vendor specific SON implementation in earlier generation of cellular networks.

### 4.19.1 Background and goal of the use case.
SON (Self-Organizing Network) functionalities reduces the cost of running a mobile network by providing control on aspects of network configuration and control and thus eliminating manual configuration of network elements right from initial deployment through the network operation. SON also helps better network performance and customer experience and can significantly improve OPEX-to-revenue ratio and help in realizing avoidable CAPEX. SON is an automation technology that enables the network to set itself up and self-manage resources and configuration to achieve optimal performance. The SON functions are handled by SON algorithms either individually or in groups. SON algorithms perform functionalities like monitoring the network(s) by collecting management data including MDAS (Management Data Analytics Service) data, analysis of the data to determine issues in the network(s) and their resolution. SON intends to achieve the following: Self-configuration: Aids in seamlessly integrating into the network through automatic configuration of key parameters (initial PCI and ANR functions). Self-optimization: Aids in enhanced network performance through near real time optimization of radio & network configurations. It is valuable throughout the lifetime of the network and includes SON functionalities such as Mobility Load Balancing [MLB], Mobility Robustness Optimization [MRO], Random Access Channel [RACH] Optimization, etc. Self-healing: It allows adjacent cells to maintain network quality in case a cell/sector fails, providing resiliency (reliability) in the face of unforeseen outage conditions. It is relevant throughout the lifetime of the network and includes SON functions such as cell outage detection, compensation and recovery. The definitions for the SON functionality are specified in 3GPP TS 28.313 [20] but the realization of the SON functions is left to implementation. The SON coordination function for detecting, preventing and resolving conflicts or negative influences between multiple SON functions when there is an attempt to change some (same or associated) network configuration parameters of some (same or associated) nodes is also specified in 3GPP TS 28.313 [20]. Based on the deployment of SON algorithm, the SON solution can be termed as Centralized SON (C-SON – where the SON algorithms are executed in the 3GPP management system), Distributed SON (D-SON - where SON algorithms are executed in the network function layer) and Hybrid SON (where SON algorithm execution is spread across the network function layers and the management layers). The objective of this use case is to enable the realization of SON functions in the O-RAN architecture framework i.e., as rApps, xApps or as management entity functions through open interfaces in a way that inter vendor interoperability issues can be addressed.
> NOTE: Other deployment options other than the ones mentioned in this use case are also possible.
The scope of the integrated SON use case covers the following functions: 1. Self configuration:
- PCI initial allocation and conflict resolution
- ANR (Automatic Neighbor Relations)
2. Self optimization:
- Mobility Load Balancing (MLB)
- Mobility Robustness Optimization (MRO)
- Coverage and Capacity Optimization (CCO)
- RACH Optimization (RO)
Editor’s note: R1 interface needs to be shown in the UMLs.

### 4.19.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case

#### 4.19.2.1 SON inventory and deployment management
1) SMO
- Support SON inventory and deployment management for Non-RT RIC(s), Near-RT RIC(s) and E2 node(s).
- Support collection of SON configurations from Non-RT RIC(s), Near-RT RIC(s) and E2 node(s).
- Support decision making on setup of the SON functions in Non-RT RIC(s), Near-RT RIC(s) and E2 node(s).
- Configure Non-RT RIC(s), Near-RT RIC(s) and E2 node(s) based on the decided SON function deployment
model. 2) Non-RT RIC
- Support exposure of SON functionalities and configurations.
- Support configuration and setup of the SON functions from SMO.
3) Near-RT RIC
- Support exposure of SON functionalities and configurations.
- Support configuration and setup of the SON functions from SMO via O1 interface.
4) E2 node
- Support exposure of SON functionalities and configurations.
- Support configuration and setup of the SON functions from SMO via O1 interface.

#### 4.19.2.2 Self configuration (PCI conflict detection/resolution, ANR)
1) SMO
- Configure self configuration SON functionality (PCI conflict detection/resolution, ANR) in Non-RT RIC, Near-
RT RIC or E2 node.
- Configure/reconfigure the respective SON related parameters and measurements in the Non-RT RIC, Near-RT
RIC and E2 node.
- Support collection of measurements or notifications from the respective O-RAN nodes.
2) Non-RT RIC
- Retrieve necessary data from SMO.
- Support setup of SON function and configuration of relevant SON data inputs from SMO.
- Support AI/ML training and inference and provide output via O1 or A1 to the relevant O-RAN nodes.
3) Near-RT RIC
- Support setup of SON function and configuration of relevant SON data inputs from SMO.
- Configure and receive necessary input data for AI/ML training of SON functions.
- Support notifications to SMO related to SON functions.
- Support AI/ML training and inference and provide output to E2 node via E2 interface.
- Support inputs from Non-RT RIC for AI/ML training and conversion of policies via A1 into E2 inputs.
4) E2 node
- Support setup of SON function and configuration of relevant SON data inputs from SMO.
- Support configuration and retrieval of necessary SON function related data for AI/ML model training via E2/O1
interfaces.
- Support policies or configuration changes or relevant inputs via E2/O1 interface to execute RRM functionalities
for the respective SON functions.
- Support notifications to SMO related to SON functions.
- Support AI/ML model inference and execute relevant RRM functionalities.

#### 4.19.2.3 Self optimization (MLB, MRO, CCO, RO)
1) SMO
- Configure the self optimization (MLB, MRO, CCO, RO) SON functionality in Non-RT RIC, Near-RT RIC or
E2 node. 2) Non-RT RIC
- Support setup of SON function and configuration of relevant SON data inputs from SMO.
- Configuration and collection of cell load related information, HO related reports, CCO related measurement
reports (RLF (Radio Link Failure), MDT (Minimization Drive Test), RCEF (RRC Connection Establishment Failure)), RACH performance reports for constructing relevant AI/ML models to assist in the self optimization SON functionality.
- Support AI/ML model training and inference based on the input data received.
- Re-configure inter-site/inter-rat cell reselection parameters, HO related parameters, CCO related control
parameters and RACH parameters based on AI/ML output.
- Generate relevant A1 policies to execute any RRM function for the configured SON function.
3) Near-RT RIC
- Support setup of SON function and configuration of relevant SON data inputs from SMO.
- Configuration and collection of load reports, HO related reports (HO failure and RLF), CCO related
measurement reports (RLF, MDT, RCEF), RACH performance reports from E2 nodes over E2 interface.
- Support AI/ML model training and inference based on the input data received via O1 and E2.
- Re-configure HO related, cell reselection parameters, CCO related control parameters and RACH parameters
based on AI/ML output.
- Support initiation of RRM functions like HO initiation, trigger cell reselection at E2 node via E2 policies or
controls based on AI/ML output.
- Support conversion of A1 policy into relevant E2 actions for executing RRM function for a specific SON
function. 4) E2 node
- Support setup of SON function and configuration of relevant SON data inputs from SMO.
- Report Measurement Report (MR), HO related information, coverage information, RACH performance over
E2/O1 interface.
- Support reconfiguration of HO related parameters, cell reselection parameters, CCO related parameters, RACH
parameters based on inputs via E2 or O1 interface.
- Support initiation of RRM functions like HO initiation, cell reselection, etc. based on inputs received via E2/O1
interface.

### 4.19.3 Solutions

#### 4.19.3.1 SON inventory and deployment management
The context of the SON inventory and deployment management is captured in table 4.19.3.1-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use
- Management of SON configurations of Non-RT RIC, Near-RT
RIC and E2 node by the SMO. Goal • Management of deployment of SON functions in Non-RT RIC, Near-RT RIC and E2 node by the SMO.
- SMO acting as controller for the SON inventory and
deployment management.
- Non-RT RIC, Near-RT RIC and E2 node acting as supporting
entities by providing the required information and adhering to Actors and Roles SON configuration by SMO.
- Operator providing the necessary inputs to SMO for decision
making on the SON function deployment.
- O1 interface connectivity between the SMO and E2 node and
Near-RT RIC is established.
- E2 interface connectivity is established between E2 node and
Near-RT RIC. Assumptions
- A1 interface connectivity is established between Near-RT RIC
and Non-RT RIC.
- Network is operational.
- SMO is unaware of the SON configurations of the O-RAN
nodes.
- SMO has necessary inputs from operator to decide the
Pre-conditions deployment of SON functions in the respective O-RAN nodes.
- O-RAN nodes are capable of providing their SON
configurations to SMO. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Network becomes operational and operator configures the SMO for Begins when SON inventory and deployment management.
- Operator sets the SON targets and the SON function
deployment model.
- SMO analyzes the SON targets and the SON deployment
Step 1, 2, 3 (M) model and notifies the operator on the decision.
- SMO inspects the SON inventory and decides on the need for
retrieval of SON configuration from O-RAN nodes.
- If required, SMO initiates request to retrieve the configuration
from O-RAN nodes in a loop until all the necessary Step 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 configurations are retrieved. (O) • Based on the retrieved configuration, SMO re-evaluates the SON deployment model and notifies the operator if any changes to SON deployment model.
- Alternatively, SMO can decide to configure the O-RAN nodes
with the necessary SON functions by deploying rApps or xApps to cater to the SON deployment model. Step 10, 11, 12 (O)
- SMO can notify the operator on the rApp and xApp
deployments if needed. Based on the revised deployment model, SMO communicates the Step 13 - 17 (O) changes to the SON configurations and the SON function setup to the O-RAN nodes. The O-RAN nodes collect data, analyze, and decide if any changes are needed to the configuration and notify operator for any modifications done. Step 18 (M) This is done in a loop until SON targets are met. If the SON functions need to be terminated based on inputs from operator, then SMO initiates deletion of SON configurations in the respective O-RAN nodes and notifies the operator when the termination Step 19 – 27 (M) is completed. The SON functions are terminated by the operator or when the SON Ends when targets are met. Exceptions None identified. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use SMO, Non-RT RIC, Near-RT RIC and E2 nodes interwork with each other seamlessly adhering to the SON function setup input from SMO. Post Conditions The flow diagram of the SON inventory and deployment management is given in figure 4.19.3.1-1.

#### 4.19.3.2 Self configuration (PCI conflict detection/resolution, ANR)
The context of the self configuration is captured in table 4.19.3.2-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Enable flexible deployment of the self configuration SON functions like PCI conflict detection/resolution, ANR by means of configuration parameter change, regulating RRM function actions and allowing AI/ML- Goal based solutions.
- SMO acting as parameter configuration function.
- Non-RT RIC/ Near-RT RIC: Configuration decision making
function. Actors and Roles
- E2 node: Configuration enforcement function, and
measurement reporting function.
- O1 interface connectivity between the SMO and E2 node,
Near-RT RIC is established.
- E2 interface connectivity is established between E2 node and
Near-RT RIC. Assumptions
- A1 interface connectivity is established between Near-RT RIC
and Non-RT RIC.
- Network is operational.
SMO has configured the SON functions and required initial parameters in the respective O-RAN nodes via SON inventory and deployment Pre-conditions management as shown in clause 4.19.3.1. Operator enables the self configuration SON functions like PCI conflict Begins when detection/resolution, ANR and E2 node becomes operational.
- Non-RT RIC initiates the specific measurement data collection
request towards SMO and SMO towards E2 node for AI/ML model training and for analysis of data for optimization. Step 1a, 1b, 1c (O) • E2 node sends the configured measurement data via O1 interface to SMO and Non-RT RIC retrieves the required data from SMO. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use
- Non-RT RIC can train the AI/ML model with the collected data
from O1 interface and constantly monitors the performance of the E2 node(s) for optimization.
- Based on the output of the AI/ML processing the Non-RT RIC
can trigger modification of configuration parameters through SMO via O1 interface to E2 node. Step 2a, 2b, 2c, 2d, 2e, 2f (O) • Optionally Non-RT RIC can also generate and send A1 policies for initiation of HO etc. to Near-RT RIC. Near-RT RIC converts the A1 policies to E2 actions and forwards them to E2 nodes.
- Non-RT RIC continues to monitor the performance of the E2
nodes and re-trains the AI/ML model in a loop.
- Near-RT RIC initiates the specific measurement data collection
request towards E2 node. Near-RT RIC can use the collected data for optionally AI/ML model training and for analysis of data for optimization. Step 3a, 3b (O)
- E2 node sends the configured measurement data via E2
interface to Near-RT RIC.
- Near-RT RIC can train the AI/ML model with the collected data
from E2 interface and constantly monitors the performance of the E2 node(s) for optimization.
- Upon trigger from the AI/ML processes, Near-RT RIC performs
reconfiguration of parameters. Step 4a, 4b, 4c, 4d (O) • Optionally Near-RT RIC can request initiation of certain E2 node actions like HO or cell reselection, etc.
- Near-RT RIC continues to monitor the performance of the E2
nodes and re-trains the AI/ML model in a loop. E2 node receives required inputs from SMO/Non-RT RIC and Near-RT Step 5 (O) RIC for execution of self configuration SON functions.
- Based on the inputs received and the inputs from inbuilt RRM
algorithm, E2 node reconfigures parameters related to self Step 6a, 6b (O) configuration. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use
- E2 node can initiate certain RRM actions like HO or cell
reselection, etc. E2 node becomes non-operational or when the operator disables the Ends when self configuration SON functions. Exceptions One of the steps identified above fails. SMO/ Non-RT RIC, Near-RT RIC continues real time close loop optimization of self configuration SON functions. Post Conditions The E2 node operates using the newly deployed parameters. The flow diagram of the self configuration is shown in figure 4.19.3.2-1.

#### 4.19.3.3 Self optimization (MLB, MRO, CCO, RO)
The context of the self optimization is captured in table 4.19.3.3-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Enable flexible optimization of the self optimizing SON functions like MRO, MLB, CCO and RACH by means of configuration parameter change, regulating RRM function actions and allowing AI/ML-based Goal solutions. Actors and Roles • SMO acting as parameter configuration function. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use
- Non-RT RIC/ Near-RT RIC: Self optimization decision making
function.
- E2 node: Configuration enforcement function, and
measurement reporting function.
- O1 interface connectivity between the SMO and E2 node,
Near-RT RIC is established.
- E2 interface connectivity is established between E2 node and
Near-RT RIC. Assumptions
- A1 interface connectivity is established between Near-RT RIC
and Non-RT RIC.
- Network is operational.
SMO has configured the SON functions and required initial parameters in the respective O-RAN nodes via SON inventory and deployment Pre-conditions management as shown in clause 4.19.3.1. Operator enables the optimization functions for SON functions like MRO, Begins when MLB, CCO or RACH and E2 node becomes operational.
- Non-RT RIC initiates the specific measurement data collection
request towards SMO and SMO towards E2 node for AI/ML model training and for analysis of data for optimization. Step 1a, 1b, 1c (O) • E2 node sends the configured measurement data via O1 interface to SMO and Non-RT RIC retrieves the required data from SMO.
- Non-RT RIC can train the AI/ML model with the collected data
from O1 interface and constantly monitors the performance of the E2 node(s) for optimization.
- Based on the output of the AI/ML processing the Non-RT RIC
can trigger modification of configuration parameters through SMO via O1 interface to E2 node. Step 2a, 2b, 2c, 2d, 2e, 2f (O) • Optionally Non-RT RIC can also generate and send A1 policies for initiation of HO etc to Near-RT RIC. Near-RT RIC converts the A1 policies to E2 actions and forwards them to E2 nodes.
- Non-RT RIC continues to monitor the performance of the E2
nodes and re-trains the AI/ML model in a loop. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use
- Near-RT RIC initiates the specific measurement data collection
request towards E2 node. Near-RT RIC can use the collected data to optionally train the AI/ML model and for analysis of data for optimization. Step 3a, 3b (O)
- E2 node sends the configured measurement data via E2
interface to Near-RT RIC.
- Near-RT RIC can train the AI/ML model with the collected data
from E2 interface and constantly monitors the performance of the E2 node(s) for optimization.
- Upon trigger from the AI/ML processes, Near-RT RIC performs
reconfiguration of parameters related to self optimization. Step 4a, 4b, 4c, 4d
- Optionally Near-RT RIC can request initiation of certain E2
(O) node Actions like HO or cell reselection, etc.
- Near-RT RIC continues to monitor the performance of the E2
nodes and re-trains the AI/ML model in a loop. E2 node receives required inputs from SMO/Non-RT RIC and Near-RT Step 5 (O) RIC for execution of self optimization SON functions.
- Based on the inputs received and the inputs from inbuilt RRM
algorithm E2 node reconfigures parameters related to self optimization. Step 6a, 6b (O)
- E2 node can initiate certain RRM Actions like HO or cell
reselection, etc. E2 node becomes non-operational or when the operator disables the Ends when optimization functions for SON functions like MRO, MLB, CCO or RACH. Exceptions One of the steps identified above fails. SMO/Non-RT RIC, Near-RT RIC continues real time close loop optimization of self optimization SON functions. Post Conditions The E2 node operates using the newly deployed parameters. The flow diagram of the self optimization is given in figure 4.19.3.3-1.

### 4.19.4 Required data

#### 4.19.4.1 Self configuration (PCI conflict detection/resolution, ANR)
1) SMO
- Network topology, GPS coordinates of the E2 nodes, PCI allocation range as inputs from operator
- Information on PCI confusion or PCI conflict from E2 node via O1 interface
- Neighbor information (PCI, ECGI, PLMN, TANAC, TAC, frequency bands) based on network topology as input
from operator 2) Non-RT RIC/Near-RT RIC and E2 node
- 3GPP RRC measurement reports with PCI information of the neighboring cells via E2 interface
- PCI allocation range via O1 interface from SMO
- Information on PCI confusion or PCI conflict from E2 node via O1 interface
- Neighbour cell relation table information of the neighboring cells via E2 interface
- 3GPP XN, X2 and NG mobility related messages via E2 interface from E2 node

#### 4.19.4.2 Self optimization (MLB, MRO, CCO, RO)
1) Non-RT RIC/Near-RT RIC and E2 node
- MLB - Load reports from Xn/X2/F1/E1 interface resource status reporting procedures and Xn, X2 and NG
mobility messages defined in 3GPP via E2 interface from E2 node.
- MLB - HO trigger control parameters available as specified in 3GPP TS 28.313 [20], clause 7.1.5 to E2 node via
E2 interface or O1 interface.
- MRO - Xn, X2 and NG HO reports, RLF reports, NG uplink and downlink RRC transfer messages, UE history
information, coverage, and quality information and XN/NG/X2 mobility related messages defined in 3GPP via E2 interface from E2 node.
- MRO - HO target and control parameters available as specified in 3GPP TS 28.313 [20], clause 7.1.2 to E2 node
via E2 interface or O1 interface.
- CCO – RLF, MDT, measurement reports and RCEF related reports defined in 3GPP via E2 interface from E2
node.
- CCO related control parameters and control information available as specified in 3GPP TS 28.313 [20], clause
7.2.3 to E2 node via E2 interface or O1 interface.
- RACH optimization – PRACH parameters available over XN/X2 interface, contention detection per RACH
attempt, number of RACH preambles per SSB, information on SSB threshold per RACH attempt defined in 3GPP via E2 interface from E2 node.
- HO target and control parameters available as specified in 3GPP TS 28.313 [20] to E2 node via E2 interface or
O1 interface.

## 4.20 Shared O-RU

### 4.20.1 Background and goal of the use case

#### 4.20.1.1 Common aspects & background for all Shared O-RU use cases
This use case provides the background, motivation, and requirements for the lower layer split multi node support, allowing to share an O-RU between multiple O-DU nodes, including single operator and multi-operator use cases. Shared O-RU use cases deliver a range of different benefits depending on specific scenarios. Shared O-RU support for Single-MNO use cases delivers important resiliency and load balancing capabilities. Shared O-RU support for multiple- MNO use cases delivers important network sharing capabilities to complement established MOCN, MORAN and DAS approaches. Shared O-RU use cases cover the class 2 BBU pooling specified in clause 4.18. Shared O-RU use cases are associated with RAN sharing use case. In particular, RAN sharing depicts a Shared O-RU configuration, specified in clause 4.7. Shared O-RU feature also serves to support the Multi-Vendor (MV) network slicing use case, its operation, and scenarios, specified in clause 4.10. Multi-vendor network slicing has implications to the front-haul as well. The multi-vendor slicing use case will use dynamic resource allocation aspects of the Shared O-RU feature. The following sub-clauses describe different configurations and deployment scenarios for Shared O-RU. They also describe use cases to accomplish key functionality such as a resiliency use case. The Shared O-RU will have common solutions that span the sub-use cases. The clauses that follow describe different aspects, configurations, and deployment scenarios for Shared O-RU; however, they will likely share common solutions which are described in the solution clause. Expected use cases that accomplish a purpose between actors comprise the sub-use cases: such as software upgrade of a Shared O-RU, start up of a Shared O-RU, recovery from failed primary O-DUs that are sharing a O-RU, rehoming of a Shared O-RU in a network. State management: The Shared O-RU supports lock/unlock operations (administrative state) of a Shared O-RU administrative state management and these are used throughout the sub-use cases. State management of administrative, operation and availability state are specified in ITU-T X.731 [18] and in 3GPP TS 28.624 [9], in 3GPP TS 28.625 [10] (for all classes in the NRM), and in 3GPP TS 28.626 [11]. Some of the sub-use cases can use them, some cannot. Role-based admission control. The host can change administrative state of the O-RU while the tenant cannot. The Shared O-RU sub-use cases shall be as specified in RFC 8348 [19] which is similar to what is specified in ITU-T X.731 [18].

#### 4.20.1.2 Resource portioning use case of Shared O-RU for Single-MNO
This sub-use case describes the procedures of how to decide on the partitioning of a Shared O-RU. The actors are the sharing co-ordinator, SMO, and the resource partitioning rApp (Shared O-RU). The sharing co-ordinator recovers the inventory from the SMO and decides on how to partition the resources of a Shared O-RU. The sharing co-ordinator uses the rApp to partition the resources of a Shared O-RU between multiple O-DUs. The outcome is that rApp has details on how a Shared O-RU’s resource are to be partitioned.

#### 4.20.1.3 Start-up use case of a Shared O-RU for Single-MNO
This sub-use case describes the start-up of a Shared O-RU. The actors are the SMO, the O-DUs, the Shared O-RU, and their interactions that are needed for a Shared O-RU to boot up and enter into operation. The outcome is that the Shared O-RU is operating with the necessary software version and has established network connectivity with the O-DUs and, for hybrid deployments, the SMO. The start-up for a Shared O-RU is the basis of the other Shared O-RU sub-use cases.

#### 4.20.1.4 Configuration use case of a Shared O-RU for Single & Multi-MNO
This sub-use case describes the configuration of a Shared O-RU. The configuration is invoked after the start-up use case has completed. Configuration can occur with different actors in hybrid vs hierarchical management mode. The common aspects of the Shared O-RU configuration are configured by the O-DU when in hierarchical management mode and by the SMO in hybrid management mode. The common aspects include the security, operational, transmission, and connectivity related parameters. The O-DUs are always responsible for configuring the partitioned carrier information on the Shared O-RU through the open front-haul interface. The use case enables the SMO to be notified of the configured carrier parameters. This sub-use case includes the configuration of multi-operator role-based access control (configuration) for the management sessions associated with a tenant operator. The Shared O-RU uses the PLMN-Id associated with the management account and used in other aspects of the Shared O-RU’s configuration to prevent a tenant from reading configuration associated with a second tenant’s partitioned resources or subscribing to performance measurements associated with a second tenant’s partitioned resources. This sub-use case also describes the procedures of how a sharing co-ordinator can confirm that a tenant operator is complying with the sharing agreements that cover operation of a Shared O-RU. The outcome is that the Shared O-RU has been configured with the configuration parameters necessary for operation.

#### 4.20.1.5 Supervision use case of a Shared O-RU for Single-MNO
This sub-use case applies to the running/operation of Shared O-RU. This sub-use case describes the supervision operations of the Shared O-RU. This sub-use case is triggered after the O- DUs have configured the partitioned carrier information of a Shared O-RU. It is invoked during run-time. The actors are the SMO, O-DUs, and Shared O-RU. The objective that the use case accomplishes is the establishment of watchdog supervision of the Shared O-RU by multiple O-DUs. Supervision enables the Shared O-RU to autonomously cease transmitting on a partitioned carrier if it loses supervision with the O-DU responsible for that carrier.

#### 4.20.1.6 Performance management use case of a Shared O-RU for Single-MNO
This sub-use case applies to the running/operation of Shared O-RU. This sub-use case describes the performance management operations of the Shared O-RU. This sub-use case is triggered after the O-DUs have configured the partitioned carrier information of a Shared O-RU. It is also invoked during run-time. The actors are the O-DUs, and Shared O-RU. The objective that the use case accomplishes is for each O-DU to establish subscriptions to receive performance management notifications regarding operation of the fronthaul between the O-DUs and Shared O-RU. The sub-use case also describes how performance management logs, data and files are passed from the Shared O-RU to the connected O-DUs and data from O-DUs to SMO. Performance measurement data should be supported in three basic ways by the O-DU:
- Active push by a producer (O-DU) – A producer (O-DU) could push performance data to a consumer (SMO).
o Streaming – A persistent connection between consumer & producer exists without having to renegotiate between the data reports to send a steady flow of data. This is like 3GPP performance streaming reporting (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.532 [21], clause 11.5). Once the WebSocket is opened, the meta-data about the streams is exchanged, and the consumer can then receive the serialized data. o Event notifications – Performance measurement information sent by event notifications will reestablish a new connection between a consumer and producer for each data reporting. This is how 5GC SBA works (as specified in 3GPP TS 23.501 [2] and in 3GPP TS 23.502 [22] services). The data is sent as a payload of a notification.
- Active collection by a consumer – The consumer (SMO) could also actively collect data from a producer (O-DU).
o Configuration management read only attributes – Reuse of configuration management approach where attribute conveying the value of performance data is read by the consumer like any other configuration management attribute. o Data scraping – Use of data scraping common to cloud native implementations where a collector reads the data from a pre-defined URI.
- File-based reporting – File based reporting is used for low-priority or background collection for large amounts of
performance data. o File upload by producer – In this method, there is no artificial delay, the data is reported whenever it is available. However, it involves action by the producer. o File download by consumer – It removes the burden from the producer, but relies upon either periodic polling, or file ready notification from the producer about the data being ready for download. This is how 3GPP file-based reporting works as specified in 3GPP TS 28.532 [21], clause 11.6 and in ETSI GS NFV IFA008 [24] and ETSI GS NFV IFA013 [23] specifications. For the Shared O-RU:
- Active push by Shared O-RU (producer) – The Shared O-RU pushes performance data to the O-DU.
o Event notifications – The Shared O-RU sends performance measurement information through event notifications to the O-DU by establishing a new connection for each data reporting session.
- Active collection by O-DU (consumer) – The O-DU can actively collect data from the Shared O-RU.
o Attributes - The performance data is read by the O-DU. The O-DU can invoke a Remote Procedure Call (RPC) towards O-RU giving the O-RU all information it needs to send PM file. Then, the O-RU acts as sftp client and performs file upload to pointed to location.
> NOTE 1: The Shared O-RU does not support streaming-based reporting.
> NOTE 2: The Shared O-RU cannot act as a sftp server but can act as a sftp client. Thus, the Shared O-RU can upload files
to a designated location.

#### 4.20.1.7 Antenna Line Device (ALD) control use case of a Shared O-RU for Single-MNO
This sub-use case applies to the running/operation of Shared O-RU. This sub-use case describes the operation of antenna line devices with the Shared O-RU. This sub-use case is triggered after the O-DUs have configured the partitioned carrier information of a Shared O-RU. The actors are one of the O-DUs, and Shared O-RU. The objective that the use case accomplishes is for the selected O-DU to operate the ALD controller and control the ALD connected to the Shared O-RU. ALD control is an end-to-end operation from the operator using the SMO at one end issuing operations to the O-DU and realising that ALD operation through the O-RU on through to the terminating ALD device at the other end. Because there is a single ALD controller, and the Shared O-RU can be connected to multiple O-DUs, one of them needs to be nominated as the ALD controller. There are many types of operations for ALD control. These include but not limited to software update of ALD devices, setting of RET mechanical/electrical tilt setting, reset of ALD devices, etc.

#### 4.20.1.8 Basic resiliency use case (active O-DU failure) for Single-MNO
This sub-use case describes system recovery from a failure (operational state = disabled) of the active O-DU#1 or O-DU switchover may be triggered by SMO in reactions to failure or due to operator’s activity for a Shared O-RU in Single- MNO deployment. A switch of the active O-DU to standby O-DU is done. This sub-use case only applies to the hierarchical management of the O-RU. The actors are the SMO, O-CU, O-DUs, and Shared O-RU. The actors work together to recover operation from O-DU(s) failures. This basic resiliency sub-use case, covers failure of the active O-DU#1 that is unable to provide service. For example, when SMO detects that O-DU is out of service, the SMO assumes operational state for such O-DU as “disabled” and triggers recovery action for cells served by such O-DU. This use case covers a flow of operations that occurs in this situation. This use case is triggered when the active O-DU fails (operational state = disabled). This use case describes the switch-over of the other O-DU to become the new active O-DU.

#### 4.20.1.9 Antenna calibration sub-use case of a Shared O-RU for Single-MNO
This sub-use case applies to the running/operation of Shared O-RU. This sub-use case describes the operation of antenna calibration using a Shared O-RU. This sub use case is triggered after the O-DUs have configured the partitioned carrier information of a Shared O-RU. The actors are the O-DUs, and Shared O-RU. The objective that the use case accomplishes is for the Shared O-RU to be able to perform antenna calibration when connected to multiple O-DUs. It is typically initiated from the Shared O-RU when it detects that antenna calibration is necessary, which then sends a notification to the O-DU. If supported by the O-RU, the O-DU may also set an automatic antenna calibration setting which enables the Shared O- RU to automatically perform antenna calibration.

#### 4.20.1.10 Rehoming use case of a Shared O-RU for Single-MNO
This sub-use case describes how a Shared O-RU is rehomed within a network and paired with new parent O-DUs. Rehoming is the process of associating new management (parent) O-DUs with a Shared O-RU. This might be a virtual rehoming in a cloud native deployment, management-requested parent rehoming, or a physical move of the Shared O-RU whereby the Shared O-RU is connected and communicating to new parent O-DUs. Rehoming is typically done deliberately. Resiliency flows has some similarity to the rehoming flow; however, the difference is that resiliency is a reaction to a fault in the system, whereas rehoming is typically a planned activity. Some typical reasons why rehoming is done is as follows:
- Replanning or changing a network – Altering a network resulting from physical construction work or network
optimization may cause an MNO to replan their network necessitating a Shared O-RU to rehome.
- New greenfield network – When a new greenfield pocket deployment is created within a brownfield deployment
rehoming might happen.
- Service management-level operations – The MNO may trigger a rehoming operation for the Shared O-RU
which can happen for a variety of purposes.
- Physical move a Shared O-RU – The Shared O-RU is physically moved from one location to another.
- Evolving a network – The site might be changed from a non-Shared O-RU configuration to a Shared O-RU
configuration which will require rehoming as at least there is a new second O-DU now connected to the O-RU.
- Partnership with a new MNO – Changing from a Single-MNO type configuration to a Multi-MNO
configuration may require the Shared O-RU to be rehomed.
- Maintenance activities – When troubleshooting a failure, or other various maintenance activities may cause a
Shared O-RU to be rehomed.
- Parent failure – The failure of a parent O-DU(s) may result in rehoming of a Shared O-RU being necessary.
To illustrate an example of rehoming, suppose there is a Shared O-RU with identity #700 that currently exists in an edge cloud with CloudID #20 with parents, O-DU #1 and O-DU #2. And it is physically moved to a different edge cloud CloudID #900 and then subsequently reconnected to new different parent O-DUs, O-DU #19 and O-DU #24. Rehoming is a software-based operation, however, to physically move a Shared O-RU would also require the associated physical front-haul connections to be made. O-CUs and O-DUs can also be rehomed to new management entities (SMO). However, this sub-use case will only focus on when a Shared O-RU is rehomed to new O-DU parents. There are two basic forms of rehoming, one that is a physical move of the Shared O-RU and other is a deliberate management level operation: Physical rehoming – In this kind of rehoming, the Shared O-RU is physically moved from one location to another. There are two cases where after the physical move, the Shared O-RU has either new O-DU parents or stays with the original O- DU parents. For a Shared O-RU this means that the front-haul connections will be separated and reconnected. This may also entail LCM operations, where a Shared O-RU is decommissioned and then subsequently recommissioned and reinstalling with new parent O-DU. These would fall into common LCM operations. Physical rehoming can also happen during maintenance operations, where a Shared O-RU might be disconnected and reconnected to new parent O-DUs for a variety of reasons. Management initiated rehoming – Management initiated and coordinated rehoming of a Shared O-RU is when the Shared O-RU is given new O-DU parents done at the SMO. This may happen for a variety of reasons and is expected to be an intentionally planned activity. The management entity of the Shared O-RU may be the O-DU in the hierarchical case or SMO in a hybrid configuration. The new parent O-DU may have different carrier support, capabilities, and capacities of than the former parent; for example, it might be more energy efficient with less capabilities or it might an expanded more powerful O-DU.

#### 4.20.1.11 Reset use case of a Shared O-RU for Single-MNO
The reset of a Shared O-RU sub-use case describes the operations related to taking a Shared O-RU out of service and resetting it. There are some important aspects to reset of Shared O-RU. Only the Shared O-RU host would have permissions to perform the reset operation. In a multiple MNO configuration, reset operations would need to be coordinated between operators. The Shared O-RU host operator has the permission to perform the reset of a Shared O-RU. It would expect that the Shared O-RU host operator would try to coordinate with the Shared Resource Operator (SRO). This can entail something as simple as those two operators talking to each other; it can also entail automated coordination between management entities of these operators. The reset of a Shared O-RU would impact Availability, Reliability, and Maintenance (ARM) metrics, and uptime KPIs. The reset of a Shared O-RU operation is the basis for maintenance activities, debugging operations, the physically moving, physical rehoming, and recovery from malfunctions of the Shared O-RU. There are situations where the Shared O-RU would autonomously reset itself. When the Shared O-RU has lost M-plane connectivity to all of its connected O-DUs the Shared O-RU would autonomously reset itself. This would be the same as if the O-RU was not in a shared configuration. A software update will result in a reset of the Shared O-RU. The software update of a Shared O-RU is expected to be coordinated between the Shared O-RU host and the SRO. Before removing the Shared O-RU from service, the Shared O-RU carriers and its associated cells on O-DU/O-CU shall be deactivated.

#### 4.20.1.12 Advanced resiliency sub-use cases of a Shared O-RU for Single-MNO
Advanced resiliency sub-use cases provide descriptions for the resiliency operations where any of O-DUs or Shared O- RU have either partially failed (for instance, when the availability status is “degraded” for any of them), completely failed (when the operational state is ”disabled”), or when there are failures detected in the interfaces (like the FH-C/U/S/M plane, F1, E2, and O1). The key actors in this scenario are the SMO, O-CU, O-DUs, and Shared O-RU. These entities may collaborate to recover or maintain operations in the event of partial O-DU(s) failures, software issues, interface disruptions, power outages, connectivity failures, and loss of synchronization. This use case shall be triggered when at least one of the aforementioned failures occurs in the network.

#### 4.20.1.13 Load-balancing sub-use case of a Shared O-RU
Load-balancing is a use case where relevant actors can reallocate Shared O-RU resources based on triggers, metrics, or policies. A key actor is a policy-enforcer that makes Shared O-RU resource allocation decisions based on inputs from measurements. For example, measurements can indicate the amount of traffic on each of the two O-DUs connected to the Shared O-RU. The policy-enforcer decides when a reallocation of Shared O-RU resources is needed. For example, if the policy-enforcer observes that one O-DU has a disproportionate amount of traffic (e.g., more users per MHz) than the other O-DU, the policy-enforcer makes a decision to re-allocate a component carrier from one O-DU to the other O-DUs. The policy-enforcer role could be played by the SMO/Non-RT RIC or the Near-RT RIC, depending on the time granularity of load balancing decision-making needed. There are limitations that are governed from the air interface which will influence the mechanisms and time granularity for load balancing. Policies can reflect a variety of triggers or mechanisms to be used to balance traffic or carriers. These might include guaranteed bandwidth, O-DU computational load/capacity (processor occupancy), and time of day triggers among others. Whatever the policy rules are and how often they are evaluated, the policy-enforcer would evaluate the situation, probably periodically, and make a resource re-allocation decision.

#### 4.20.1.14 Coordinated reset of a Shared O-RU sub-use case for Multi-MNO
The coordinated reset of a Shared O-RU sub-use case describes the operations related to resetting a Shared O-RU when there are multiple Shared Resource Operator (SRO) O-DUs connected to the Shared O-RU. In a multiple MNO configuration, reset operations would need to be coordinated between operators. The active Shared O-RU Host (SOH) operator coordinates the reset of a Shared O-RU. The definition of the active SOH is a SOH that has a state = active. The active SOH can perform a reset on its own volition. The active Shared O-RU Host (SOH) coordinates the reset operation; thus, the SROs can request a reset of the Shared O-RU to be performed by the active SOH. So, the active SOH approves or rejects a reset request of the Shared O-RU coming from other SROs. If the request is accepted by the active SOH, the x would inform all the other SROs x. Then the SOH would perform the reset of the Shared O-RU. If the SOH rejects the operation, then the SOH that originated the SRO that the command was rejected. The SOH can reject a command for example in the middle of a software update or other possible conditions that might prohibit a reset. The reset of a Shared O-RU would impact availability, reliability, and maintenance (ARM) metrics, and uptime KPIs. The reset of a Shared O-RU operation is the basis for maintenance activities, debugging operations, the physically moving, physical rehoming, and recovery from malfunctions of the Shared O-RU. Before removing the Shared O-RU from service, the Shared O-RU carriers and its associated cells on O-DU/O-CU shall be deactivated. The reset of a Shared O-RU is a “hard reset”. There can be other variations of coordinated reset of a Shared O-RU possibly based on a policy.

#### 4.20.1.15 Management of Shared O-RU during O-DU software update sub-use case for Shared O-RU for Single & Multi-MNO
As part of WG6 Cloudification and Orchestration Use Cases and Requirements for O-RAN, a generic case of software upgrade of network function is described. In the practical implementation context, a variety of strategies are incorporated for updating the network function with a new software version, with the objective of minimizing the impact of modifications and mitigating any disruptions to the overall service delivered to end users. These strategies include well- established practices such as Canary update, Rolling update, Blue/Green update etc. The choice of a specific approach relies on various factors such as the extent of the changes, the associated risk potential, and the cost of incorporating the change. Moreover, such changes necessitate careful consideration of dependencies and the need to re-provision and optimize resources accordingly. Furthermore, it is crucial to incorporate contingency/mitigation plans in the event that the software update does not align with the intended plan for implementing the changes. This sub-use case focuses on the management of Shared O-RU during the software update of O-DU. It is a critical consideration for Shared O-RU, particularly when O-RU resources are shared between the updated O-DU and existing O-DUs. To address this, well-defined procedures are necessary to identify the specific O-RU that can be shared, determine the particular O-DU with which the O-RU resources can be shared, and optimize the shared resources effectively. Prior to the software update, it can be essential to identify the candidate O-DU and associated O-RU resources that requires evacuation, thereby necessitating the provisioning of target RAN nodes. Moreover, in the event of performance degradation or negative impact on performance indicators following the completion of O-DU software update and activation, it is essential to establish efficient risk mitigation strategies and evaluate possibility of rolling back the introduced changes. Here the consideration of the Shared O-RU arises from the need to minimize the impact of the software update of O-DU. This is achieved by validating the update with minimal traffic or allocating minimal resources, thereby effectively reducing the footprint of affected end users. Utilizing a Shared O-RU effectively fulfils this objective which otherwise can require deployment of dedicated O-RUs solely for validating the O-DU software update. An additional aspect to be considered is the prevention of Shared O-RU restart following a software update at the O-DU level. This is particularly relevant as a software update on the O-DU can entail the establishment of m-lane connections and initiation of the call home procedure, both of which typically require an O-RU restart to be initiated. A high-level view of the software update scenario of O-DU wherein the software (SW) updated O-DU shares the O-RU resources with an existing O-DU is shown in figure 4.20.1.15-1. Shared O-RU management scenario during O-DU software update follows a high-level approach as given below: 1. Selection of O-DU node for software update based on inventory, FM/PM data 2. Deployment and call-home procedures of O-DU 3. O-DU registration with O-CU, Near-RT RIC 4. Common aspect provisioning on Shared O-RU (e.g., ODU-ID, User account) based on SW updated O-DU 5. Selection of the policy for load sharing (e.g., load balancing policy, or selection based on cells having low priority user sessions, S-NSSAI, anticipated traffic, etc.) with the SW updated O-DU 6. O-RU initiates m-plane connection establishment with SW updated O-DU 7. Translation of the load sharing policy to O-RU configuration 8. Inactivation and evacuation of component carriers selected for allocation to SW updated O-DU 9. Provisioning of O-RU with carrier configuration details by SW updated O-DU (e.g., end points, list entries) 10. Activation of carrier configuration associated with SW updated O-DU 11. Initiate KPI and functional log monitoring of SW updated O-DU and associated O-RU resources 12. O-DU SW update mitigation : In case of degraded KPIs reverse SW update process of O-DU It is to be noted that this sub-use case does not differentiate based on the extent of change introduced to the O-DU through the software upgrade because it primarily depends on the implementation context. This use case does not enforce a specific policy for the SW update as this depends on the particular deployment and implementation choice. Such policies are typically incorporated to define the rules, control logic, constraints, and thresholds to be considered during the particular change being initiated. As an example, if an implementation scenario calls for such flexibility, the component carrier shifting could be omitted by utilizing appropriate SW update policy and limit only to the general health check after O-DU SW update. This use case introduces couple of new actors such as O-DU SW change management rApp. An O-DU SW update lifecycle can be managed using these optional functions or using appropriate implementation specific extensions of SMO function. Currently this use case considers only single operator Shared O-RU scenario. The impact of SW update on multi-operator Shared O-RU scenarios is not in scope of the current version of this sub-use case.

#### 4.20.1.16 Resource partitioning sub-use case for Multi-MNO configuration
This sub-use case describes the procedures of how to decide on the partitioning of a Shared O-RU in a Multi-MNO configuration where one O-DU belongs to an owner operator (MNO) and at least one other O-DU belongs to a participating operator (MNO). The actors are the owner operator MNO sharing co-ordinator, the participating operator MNO sharing co-ordinator, the owner operator SMO, the participating operator MNO SMO, the owner operator resource partitioning rApp, and participating operator MNO resource partitioning rApp. The owner operator MNO sharing co- ordinator retrieves the inventory from the owner operator SMO and decides on how to partition the resources of a Shared O-RU. The owner operator MNO sharing co-ordinator uses the owner operator resource partitioning rApp to partition the resources of a Shared O-RU between multiple O-DUs. The outcome is that the owner operator resource partitioning rApp has details on how a Shared O-RU’s resource are to be partitioned.

#### 4.20.1.17 Start-up sub-use case of for Multi-MNO configuration
This sub-use case describes the start-up of a Shared O-RU in a Multi-MNO configuration where one O-DU belongs to an owner operator (MNO) and at least one other belongs to a participating operator (MNO). The actors are the owner operator SMO, participating operator SMO, the connected O-DUs, the Shared O-RU, and their interactions that are needed for a Shared O-RU to boot up and enter into operation. The outcome is that the Shared O-RU is operating with the necessary software version and has established network connectivity with the O-DUs and, for hybrid deployments, the corresponding SMOs. The start-up for a Shared O-RU is a basis for some of the other Shared O-RU sub-use cases.

#### 4.20.1.18 Supervision sub-use case for Multi-MNO configuration
This sub-use case applies to the running or operation of Shared O-RU in a Multi-MNO configuration where one O-DU belongs to an owner operator (MNO) and at least one O-DU belongs to a participating operator (MNO). This sub-use case describes the supervision operations of the Shared O-RU. It is triggered after the connected O-DUs have configured the partitioned carrier information of a Shared O-RU. It is invoked during run-time. The actors are the owner operator SMO, participating operator SMO, the connected O-DUs, and Shared O-RU. The objective that the use case accomplishes is the establishment of watchdog supervision of the Shared O-RU by multiple O-DUs. Supervision enables the Shared O-RU to autonomously cease transmitting on a partitioned carrier if it loses supervision with the O- DU responsible for that carrier.

#### 4.20.1.19 Antenna Line Device (ALD) control sub-use case for Multi-MNO configuration
This sub-use case applies to the running or operation of Shared O-RU in a Multi-MNO configuration where one O-DU belongs to an owner operator (MNO) and at least one other belongs to a participating operator (MNO). This sub-use case describes the operation of Antenna Line Devices (ALD) with the Shared O-RU. This sub-use case is triggered after the connected O-DUs have configured the partitioned carrier information of a Shared O-RU. The actors are one of the O-DUs, and Shared O-RU. The objective that the use case accomplishes is for the selected O-DU to operate as the ALD controller and control the ALD connected to the Shared O-RU. ALD control is an end-to-end operation from a technician using the owning operator or participating operator SMO at one end issuing operations to the O-DU and realising that ALD operation through the O-RU on through to the terminating ALD device at the other end. Because there is a single ALD controller, and the Shared O-RU can be connected to multiple O-DUs, one of them needs to be nominated as the ALD controller. It is expected that an O-DU of the owning operator would be the ALD controller (but not necessarily). There are many types of operations for ALD control. These include but not limited to software update of ALD devices, setting of RET mechanical/electrical tilt setting, TMA updates, reset of ALD devices, etc.
> NOTE: Only the host O-DU (of the owner operator) can control the ALD and the participating operator O-DU would not
be able to control the ALD devices.

#### 4.20.1.20 Antenna calibration sub-use case for Multi-MNO configuration
This sub-use case applies to the running or operation of Shared O-RU in a Multi-MNO configuration where one O-DU belongs to an owner operator (MNO) and at least O-DU other belongs to a participating operator (MNO). This sub-use case describes the operation of antenna calibration using a Shared O-RU. This sub-use case is triggered after the O-DUs have configured the partitioned carrier information of a Shared O-RU. The actors are the connected O-DUs, and Shared O-RU. The objective that the use case accomplishes is for the Shared O-RU to be able to perform antenna calibration when connected to multiple O-DUs.

#### 4.20.1.21 Rehoming use case of a Shared O-RU for Multi-MNO
This is rehoming the Shared O-RU in a Multi-MNO configuration where different O-DU (parents of the Shared O-RU) are now under the management of different MNOs. Some considerations among others in the Multi-MNO configuration are that there might be different configuration, security concerns, role based access privileges, physical security, coordination between the two MNOs technicians when performing maintenance activities that require rehoming the Shared O-RU. For the Multi-MNO configuration, the three basic forms of rehoming, physical rehoming where the Shared O-RU is physically moved (with original O-DU parents or new O-DU parents), and management initiated rehoming caused from management level planned activities still apply to the Multi-MNO case.

#### 4.20.1.22 Performance management use case of a Shared O-RU for Multi-MNO
This sub-use case applies to the running/operation of Shared O-RU. This sub-use case describes the performance management operations of the Shared O-RU in a Multi-MNO configuration. Here the Shared O-RU is connected to O-DUs that are owned by different MNOs. This sub-use case is triggered after the O-DUs have configured the partitioned carrier information of a Shared O-RU. It is also invoked during run-time. The actors are the O-DUs, and Shared O-RU. The objective that the use case accomplishes is for each O-DU to establish subscriptions to receive performance management notifications regarding operation of the fronthaul between the O-DUs and Shared O-RU. The sub-use case also describes how performance management logs, data and files are passed from the Shared O-RU to the connected O-DUs and data from O-DUs to SMO. Performance measurement data and telemetry information should be supported in three basic ways. The same mechanisms described in performance measurement reporting for Single-MNO are also supported in a Multi- MNO configuration. The O-DU supported active push through streaming and event notification methods. The O-DU supports active collection by a consumer through attribute based and data scraping. The O-DU supports file-based reporting. The Shared O-RU supports active push through event notifications and active collection from O-DU via RPC and sftp. See clause 4.20.1.6 for further details. The main difference between the Single-MNO configuration and the Multi-MNO configuration is that there are additional considerations for sending performance information to two different mobile network operators. This entails aspects of security and support for different subscription filters. As such, two MNOs may want different collected data, may have different security controls based on role-access, different subscription filters and session operation. For example, one MNO might employ NetConf and another MNO Virtual Event Streaming (VES) messaging.

#### 4.20.1.23 Antenna calibration sub-use case of a Shared O-RU for Multi-MNO
This sub-use case applies to the running/operation of Shared O-RU. This sub-use case describes the operation of antenna calibration using a Shared O-RU in a Multi-MNO configuration. This sub-use case is triggered after the O-DUs have configured the partitioned carrier information of a Shared O-RU. The actors are the O-DUs, and Shared O-RU. The objective that the use case accomplishes is for the Shared O-RU to be able to perform antenna calibration when connected to multiple O-DUs in a Multi-MNO configuration. This sub-use case is essentially the same as for the Single-MNO configuration except the O-DUs which are connected to different operators may coordinate.

#### 4.20.1.24 Dynamic resource shifting
Dynamic resource shifting is a Shared O-RU sub-use case related to how resources are moved to achieve improvements in performance. In this case, the resources that are shifted are fractions of radio spectrum utilized by cells. These resources correspond to PRBs and can be dynamically addressed by bandwidth parts. See 3GPP TS 38.211 [13], clause 4.4.5. This sub-use case describes how radio spectrum resources can be shifted between cells that use overlapping spectrum and are served by Shared O-RU. This is performed automatically and dynamically (autonomously) without the need to perform time-consuming cell reconfiguration process. The process of dynamic resource shifting is controlled by Near-RT RIC based on traffic-related KPIs or operator-defined parameters. Exact triggers for RIC to request for dynamic resource shifting are out of scope of this specification. Important drivers for this use case are as follows:
- The use case shall deliver truly dynamic frequency resource shifting between cells.
- The use case shall preserve power consumption usage at the UE level.
- The use case shall utilize existing radio link control procedures.

#### 4.20.1.25 Static resource shifting use case for Single-MNO
The Shared O-RU resource shifting use case describes how cell(s)/carrier(s) and their resources are optimally reallocated between O-DUs to achieve performance improvements, and resource optimization. Static resource shifting is initiated by the SMO based on pre-configured triggers or policies, where it describes about how cell(s)/carrier(s) are moved between O-DUs. Two or more O-DUs connected to an O-RU utilize their respective carrier frequency resources exclusively during designated time periods, with potential optimization based on various resource reallocation requirements. O-RU configured with respective carrier frequency resources associated with two O-DUs, enabling the transfer of throughput between cells/carriers. This process involves the reconfiguration of cell and carrier resources between O-DUs to optimize performance. Important drivers for this use case are as follows:
- The use case should provide mechanism for cell resource shifting between O-DUs.
- The use case shall utilize the existing cell/carrier configuration scenarios.

### 4.20.2 Entity/resources involved in the use case

#### 4.20.2.1 General aspects of entity/resources for Shared O-RU
The following sub-clauses describe the entity/resources that are important and key players for each of the sub-use cases for Shared O-RU. Many of the sub-use cases will have a similar set of actors/entities/resources involved in realise the operation related to that sub-use case. In general, the identification of entity/resources serve as the basis for understanding a service model. The actors are trying to accomplish a particular goal, and the actions between the actors are the services that are the basis of a service model. The service model is a basis for an information model. Sometimes, the actors in the sub-use cases perform differing operations, and sometimes there is a variable number of entities depending on the function.

#### 4.20.2.2 Resource partitioning use case of Shared O-RU for Single-MNO
1) Sharing co-ordinator: a) Recovers the inventory of Shared O-RUs and O-DUs and determines how to partition the resources of a Shared O-RU between multiple different O-DUs. 2) SMO: a) Provides inventory of Shared O-RUs and O-DUs. b) Configures call home identities in external transport systems. 3) Shared O-RU orchestration rApp: a) Supports partitioning of individual carriers of a Shared O-RU between multiple different O-DUs operated by different operators.

#### 4.20.2.3 Start-up use case of a Shared O-RU for Single-MNO
1) Shared O-RU: a) Performs call home and triggers establishment of network management session. 2) SMO: a) Recovers the software inventory of Shared O-RU and decides whether to upgrade operational software of Shared O-RU (hybrid management model). 3) O-DU: a) Recovers the software inventory of Shared O-RU and decides whether to upgrade operational software of Shared O-RU (hierarchical management model).

#### 4.20.2.4 Configuration use case of a Shared O-RU for Single & Multi-MNO
1) SMO: a) Responsible for Shared O-RU common configuration (hybrid management model). b) Responsible for receiving notifications of modifications to Shared O-RU’s configuration (Multi-MNO deployment model). 2) O-DU: a) Responsible for Shared O-RU common configuration (hierarchical management model). b) Responsible for Shared O-RU carrier configuration. 3) Shared O-RU orchestration rApp: a) Responsible for determining which O-DU performs Shared O-RU common configuration (hierarchical management model). b) Responsible for receiving notifications of modifications to Shared O-RU’s configuration (Multi-MNO deployment model). 4) Shared O-RU: a) Responsible for notifying any subscriber of its modified configuration. 5) Sharing coordinator: a) Confirms that the Shared O-RU’s configuration complies with a sharing agreement (Multi-MNO deployment model).

#### 4.20.2.5 Supervision use case of a Shared O-RU for Single-MNO
1) Shared O-RU: a) Responsible for operating supervision on a per O-DU basis. b) Responsible for de-activating carriers associated with O-DU if there is supervision failure by O-DU. c) Responsible for signalling alarm to subscribers if O-DU supervision is lost. 2) O-DU: a) Responsible for repeatedly resetting the Shared O-RU’s supervision timer. 3) SMO: a) Responsible for subscribing to alarm notifications (hybrid management model). b) Responsible for forwarding alarm notifications to Shared O-RU orchestration rApp.

#### 4.20.2.6 Performance management use case of a Shared O-RU
1) Shared O-RU: a) Responsible for generating performance management notifications on a per partitioned carrier basis. 2) O-DU: a) Responsible for subscribing to receive performance management notifications from Shared O-RU. 3) SMO: a) The operator, or SMO, or another entity is an endpoint for the performance measurement data or reports.

#### 4.20.2.7 Antenna Line Device (ALD) control use case of a Shared O-RU for Single-MNO
The following actors are involved in the ALD control use case. 1) Antenna line device control rApp (for the Shared O-RU): a) Responsible for determining which O-DU is responsible for ALD controller aspects. 2) O-DU: a) Responsible for implementing ALD controller. 3) Shared O-RU (hardware): a) Responsible for bridging between OFH and HDLC. 4) ALD (one or more ALD devices): a) Responsible for terminating HDLC.

#### 4.20.2.8 Basic resiliency use case (active O-DU failure) for Single-MNO
The description below outlines the actors involved: 1) Shared O-RU: a) The Shared O-RU helps in detection of the O-DU connectivity/availability seen from O-RU perspective during a resiliency recovery operation. For example, when the active O-DU fails, the Shared O-RU informs other available and subscribed NetConf clients about the connection failure towards previously active O-DU. 2) O-DUs (host/tenant/ & other O-DUs): a) All the O-DUs connected to the Shared O-RU are actors that are relevant in some way during a resiliency operation. The active O-DU is main O-DU that performs the basic LCM and FCAPS functionality and terminates HDLC stack for ALDs operations connected to O-RU. In the various resiliency situations, where the active O-DU fails, then the other O-DU(s) connected to the Shared O-RU get involved in restoring the services for end users. 3) O-CU: a) O-CU receives cell related configurations from SMO and available cell details from O-DU(s). Based on the available resources reported by O-DU and desired availability of cells received from SMO, the O-CU activates or deactivates the cells in the O-DU using F1 interface. 4) SMO: a) Based on operator’s decision, the SMO assigns initial O-DU roles (active, standby). b) The SMO makes high-level decisions related to failures and the various resiliency situations. For example, in a case where a O-DU is taken out of service, it might be intentionally removed, or physically removed permanently, which has impact to the Shared O-RU operation.

#### 4.20.2.9 Antenna calibration use case of a Shared O-RU for Single-MNO
The following are the principal actors in the antenna calibration use case for a Shared O-RU. 1) Antenna calibration rApp (Shared O-RU): a) This App is responsible for determining which O-DU is responsible for the antenna calibration operation. 2) O-DU: a) Responsible for supporting Shared O-RU antenna calibration operation. 3) Shared O-RU (HW): a) Responsible for implementing antenna calibration.

#### 4.20.2.10 Rehoming use case of a Shared O-RU for Single-MNO
The following are the principal actors in the rehoming use case: 1) Shared O-RU: a) The Shared O-RU is the entity that is being rehomed. 2) Original O-DUs: a) The original O-DU(s) are the O-DUs that the Shared O-RU were originally attached to. 3) New O-DUs attached to: a) These are the new O-DU(s) that the Shared O-RU will now be attached to. 4) SMO: a) It is also possible to rehome to a O-RU to a new management system (SMO). As such, the O-RU can be rehomed to a different SMO. For a hybrid configuration this would mean the O-RU is connected to a different SMO.

#### 4.20.2.11 Reset use case of a Shared O-RU for Single-MNO
The following are the principal actors in the [shut down/reset] of a Shared O-RU use case. 1) Shared O-RU: a) The Shared O-RU is the entity that is being affected by the operation ([shutdown/reset]). 2) The [primary/host] O-DU: a) The [primary/host] O-DU for the Shared O-RU is the managing entity that will execute the command. 3) SMO: a) The operator using the SMO can issue the shut-down/reset command, and starts the use case for the operation.

#### 4.20.2.12 Advanced resiliency sub-use cases of a Shared O-RU for Single-MNO
The following description details the actors involved in the advanced resiliency sub-use cases of a Shared O-RU: 1) Shared O-RU: The Shared O-RU acts as actor in M-plane session supervision towards O-DU. As such O-RU detects M-plane link breaks and reports them in form of alarms towards other NetConf clients who still have active M-plane links with O-RU.
> NOTE: If there is no client with active M-plane session available - the O-RU performs autonomous reset.
2) O-DUs (active/stand-by): a) All the O-DUs connected to the Shared O-RU are actors during a resiliency operation. The active O-DU performs the LCM, FCAPS functionality, and ALD operations with the O-RU. In various resiliency scenarios, when the active O-DU fails, the SMO may decide to trigger the O-DU role change (active/standby) to restore service availability for end users. 3) SMO: a) Based on operator’s decision, the SMO assigns initial O-DU roles (active, stand-by). The SMO may then decide to perform switch between O-DU’s roles for specific O-DUs initially “paired” by operator based on alarms/performance counters/operator’s decision.
> NOTE: The sub-use cases assume the hierarchical deployment scenarios.

#### 4.20.2.13 Load-balancing sub-use case of a Shared O-RU
The following description details the actors involved in the resiliency use case of a Shared O-RU: 1) Shared O-RU: a) The Shared O-RU is actor that has its resources adjusted by the policy enforcer. 2) O-DUs (host/tenant/ & other O-DUs): a) All the O-DUs connected to the Shared O-RU are actors that are relevant because they perform the load balancing working with the O-RU. They can also provide measurements relevant to the load-balancing policy. 3) Policy enforcer (SMO, RIC, etc): a) The policy enforcer is an actor that executes the load-balancing policy. The policy defines the characteristics, triggers, and timing of how and when load-balancing occurs.

#### 4.20.2.14 Coordinated reset of a Shared O-RU sub-use case for Multi-MNO
The following description details the actors involved in the coordinate reset of a Shared O-RU use case: 1) Shared O-RU: a) The Shared O-RU is actor that would be reset from the host O-DU. 2) Shared O-RU Host (SOH): a) The SOH coordinates and issues the coordinate reset of a Shared O-RU. 3) Shared Resource Operators (non-SOH SROs): a) All the O-DUs connected to the Shared O-RU are actors that are relevant because they can request a coordinate reset also for the Shared O-RU. 4) SMO/Operator: a) The SMO operator can initiate a coordinated reset for the Shared O-RU. 5) Partner SMO/Partner operator a) The SMO/partner operator can initiate a coordinated reset for the Shared O-RU.

#### 4.20.2.15 Management of Shared O-RU during O-DU software update sub-use case for Shared O-RU for Single & Multi-MNO
The following description details the actors involved in the management of Shared O-RU during the SW update of O-DU subusecase: 1) Shared O-RU:
- The Shared O-RU which has its resources shared with the SW updated O-DU and other O-DUs.
2) O-DU SW change management rApp:
- The rApp that supports SMO and Non-RT RIC in managing the SW change of the O-DU. This is an optional
functionality which can alternately be implemented as an extended capability in one of the existing SMO functions. The capabilities of the O-DU SW change management rApp includes but not limited to the following: a) Validation of change management plan & impact assessment. b) Identification of the candidate Shared O-RU resources that can be shared based on the change plan and associated policies. c) Identification of the candidate O-DU for SW update. d) Translation of change management plan to O-DU and O-RU configurations. e) Recommendation of the configuration for Shared O-RU provisioning for m-plane setup with updated O- DU. f) Recommendation of configuration for traffic evacuation of Shared O-RU and O-DU before the O-DU SW update. g) Monitoring and management of SW update by coordinating with other SMO functions, Shared O-RU and rApps. h) Management of fallout scenarios and recovery. 3) Shared O-RU orchestration rApp:
- Supports partitioning of individual carriers of a Shared O-RU between updated O-DU and other O-DUs. This
is an optional functionality which can alternately be implemented as an extended capability in one of the existing SMO functions. 4) SMO:
- Maintains inventory of Shared O-RUs and O-DUs.
- Configures O-DUs and O-RUs with the support of the rApps.
- Subscribe to alarms, notifications and measurements from O-DU and O-RU.
- Sharing of alarm, notification and measurements from O-DU and O-RU with the rApps.
5) O-DU SW planner: Personnel:
- Prepares O-DU SW change management strategy and associated plan. Based on the strategy and plan O-DU
SW planner identifies the right software version, prepares target O-DU identification policies (for e.g., least loaded O-DU), Shared O-RU load sharing criteria (e.g., component carrier to be allocated), identifies carrier evacuation criteria, etc. 6) Sharing coordinator: Personnel:
- Confirms that the Shared O-RU’s configuration complies with a sharing policy defined as per the O-DU SW
change management requirement. 7) Updated O-DU:
- Responsible for load sharing the O-RU resources such as component carriers with other active O-DUs.
8) Original O-DUs:
- The original O-DU(s) are the O-DUs that the Shared O-RU were originally attached to.

#### 4.20.2.16 Resource partitioning use case of Shared O-RU for Multi-MNO configuration
1) Owning operator sharing coordinator: a) Recovers the inventory of Shared O-RUs and O-DUs and determines how to partition the resources of a Shared O-RU between multiple different O-DUs. 2) Owning operator SMO: a) Provides inventory of Shared O-RUs and O-DUs. b) Configures call home identities in external transport systems. 3) Shared O-RU owning operator orchestration rApp: a) Supports partitioning of individual carriers of a Shared O-RU between multiple different O-DUs operated by different operators. 4) Participating operator SMO: a) Handles management of participating operator O-DU.

#### 4.20.2.17 Start-up use case of a Shared O-RU for Multi-MNO configuration
1) Shared O-RU: a) Performs call home and triggers establishment of network management session. 2) Owning operator SMO: a) Recovers the software inventory of Shared O-RU and decides whether to upgrade operational software of Shared O-RU (hybrid management model). 3) Participating operator SMO: a) Handles management of participating operator O-DU. 4) Owning operator O-DU: a) Recovers the software inventory of Shared O-RU and decides whether to upgrade operational software of Shared O-RU (hierarchical management model). 5) Participating operator O-DU: a) Expected to be a Shared O-RU Operator (SRO). The participating operator O-DU handles configuration of its component carriers with the Shared O-RU that it is connected to and has a communication link up.

#### 4.20.2.18 Supervision use case of a Shared O-RU for Multi-MNO configuration
1) Shared O-RU: a) Responsible for operating supervision on a per O-DU basis. b) Responsible for de-activating carriers associated with O-DU if there is supervision failure by O-DU. c) Responsible for signaling alarm to subscribers if O-DU supervision is lost. 2) Owning operator O-DU: a) Responsible for repeatedly resetting the Shared O-RU’s supervision timer. 3) Participating operator O-DU: a) Expected to be a Shared O-RU Operator (SRO). Has a heartbeat timer with the Shared O-RU that it is connected to and has a communication link up. 4) Owning operator SMO: a) Responsible for subscribing to alarm notifications (hybrid management model). b) Responsible for forwarding alarm notifications to Shared O-RU orchestration rApp. 5) Participating operator SMO: a) Handles management of participating operator O-DU.

#### 4.20.2.19 Antenna Line Device (ALD) control use case of a Shared O-RU for Multi-MNO
configuration The following actors are involved in the ALD control use case. 1) Owning operator antenna line device control rApp (for the Shared O-RU): a) Responsible for determining which O-DU is responsible for ALD controller aspects. 2) Owning operator O-DU: a) Responsible for implementing ALD controller. 3) Participating operator O-DU: a) Expected to be a Shared O-RU Operator (SRO). Does not perform any operations directly with ALD until it becomes host under failure situations. 4) Participating operator SMO: a) Handles management of participating operator O-DU. 5) Shared O-RU (hardware): a) Responsible for bridging between OFH and HDLC. 6) ALD (one or more ALD devices): a) Responsible for terminating HDLC.

#### 4.20.2.20 Antenna calibration use case of a Shared O-RU for Multi-MNO configuration
The following are the principal actors in the antenna calibration use case for a Shared O-RU. 1) Owning operator antenna calibration rApp (Shared O-RU): a) Responsible for determining which O-DU is responsible for configuring common aspects of antenna calibration. 2) Owning operator O-DU: a) Responsible for supporting Shared O-RU coordinated calibration. 3) Participating operator O-DU: a) Expected to be a Shared O-RU Operator (SRO). The participating operator O-DU and does not perform calibration operations. 4) Shared O-RU (HW): a) Responsible for implementing coordinated calibration.

#### 4.20.2.21 Rehoming use case of a Shared O-RU for Multi-MNO
The following are the principal actors in the rehoming use case for Multi-MNO: 1) Shared O-RU: a) The Shared O-RU is the entity that is being rehomed. 2) Original O-DUs: a) The original O-DU(s) (the owning operator O-DU and participating operator O-DU) are the O-DUs that the Shared O-RU were originally attached to. These O-DUs belong to different MNOs (the owning MNO and participating MNO). 3) New O-DUs attached to: a) These are the new O-DU(s) (the owning operator O-DU and participating operator O-DU) that the Shared O- RU will now be attached to. These O-DUs belong to different MNOs. The new O-DU(s) could be different O- DUs than the original O-DU(s). 4) Owning operator SMO: a) The owning operator SMO connects the owning operator O-DU to the Shared O-RU. 5) Participating operator SMO: a) The participating operator SMO connects the participating operator O-DU which is connected to the Shared O- RU.

#### 4.20.2.22 Performance management use case of a Shared O-RU for Multi-MNO
1) Shared O-RU: a) Responsible for generating performance management notifications on a per partitioned carrier basis. 2) Managing operator O-DU: a) Responsible for subscribing to receive performance management notifications from Shared O-RU. 3) Participating operator O-DU: a) The O-DU of the participating operator that is also connected to the Shared O-RU. 4) Managing operator SMO: a) The managing operator SMO, or another entity is an endpoint for the performance measurement data or reports. 5) Participating operator SMO: a) The SMO of the participating operator which is an endpoint for the performance measurement data or reports from the participating operator O-DU.

#### 4.20.2.23 Antenna calibration use case of a Shared O-RU for Multi-MNO
The following are the principal actors in the antenna calibration use case for a Shared O-RU. 1) Antenna calibration rApp (Shared O-RU) of owning operator (SMO): a) The owning operator App is responsible for telling the owning operator O-DU that it is responsible for the antenna calibration operation. 2) Owning operator O-DU, participating operator O-DU: a) The owning operator O-DU is responsible for supporting Shared O-RU antenna calibration operation. 3) Shared O-RU (HW): a) Responsible for implementing antenna calibration.

#### 4.20.2.24 Dynamic resource shifting use case of a Shared O-RU
The following are the principal actors in the dynamic resource shifting use case: 1) Shared O-RU: a) The Shared O-RU is the entity that serves cells to the air. 2) O-DU1, O-DU2: a) Responsible for processing of user data and radio resource handling. 3) SMO: a) Responsible for configuration of Near-RT RIC, O-DUs and O-RU (used architecture does not matter for this sub-use case). 4) Near-RT RIC: a) Responsible for control of dynamic resource shifting between cells served by cooperating O-DUs.

#### 4.20.2.25 Static resource shifting use case for Single-MNO
The following are the actors in the static resource shifting use case: 1) Shared O-RU: a) The Shared O-RU is the entity that serves cells to the air. b) The Shared O-RU terminates open fronthaul interface towards O-DU(s) and optionally towards SMO. 2) O-DU1, O-DU2: a) Responsible for processing of user data and handle radio resources. b) O-DU(s) terminate open fronthaul interface towards O-RU. c) O-DU(s) terminate F1 interface towards O-CU. 3) O-CU: a) O-CU terminates F1 interface towards O-DU(s). b) O-CU is responsible for RRC protocol handling for UEs. 4) SMO: a) Responsible for configuration of O-CU, O-DUs and O-RU (depending on deployment SMO configures O-RU directly or through O-DU). b) In hybrid deployment SMO terminates open fronthaul interface towards O-RU.

### 4.20.3 Solution

#### 4.20.3.1 General aspects of solutions for all Shared O-RU use cases
The following clauses describe solutions that apply to each of the sub–use cases. They describe different solutions for key aspects of Shared O-RU operation, such as the start-up, configuration, supervision, and performance management among other things. There are a few general aspects of each of these solutions that share similar goals, assumptions, actors, and roles and are captured in table 4.20.3.1-1. Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification <<Uses>> Related use Common Goals All the following sub-use cases involve either getting the Shared O-RU operational or keeping it operational. Each of the sub-use cases explore a different aspect of these two common goals. Each of the sub-use cases has a different specific goal and is trying to accomplish a particular dimension of Shared O-RU operation. This sub-use case is only applicable to the hierarchical configuration. Bringing into operation – Many of the sub-use cases have the goal to get the Shared O-RU operational and capable of supporting over the air traffic. These include the resource partitioning, start-up, configuration, and supervision sub-use cases. They are “day 0” related use cases. Maintaining service – The other set of sub-use cases are related to maintaining service. These include the supervision, performance, and resiliency sub-use cases. These use cases relate to the continued operation of the Shared O-RU, thus “day 2” operation. Common Actors The Shared O-RU and the multiple O-DUs that the Shared O-RU is connected to are common actors that apply to all the following sub–use cases. The common configurations that apply to the sub-use cases many also involve the management system between two operators. Some actors can be controlled by different operators and / or provided by different solution providers. Common For the following sub-use cases it is assumed that all relevant functions and Assumptions components are instantiated. Inventory management systems identify Shared O-RU and the available O- DUs as inventory elements. For all of the sub-use cases, an O-RU resources are statically partitioned between O-DUs (static configuration) All the sub-use cases also apply a set of common configurations. These sub-use cases are intended to apply to Single Operator (MNO) and Multiple Operator (MNO) configurations. The configurations will be important to service providers, wireless operators as they roll out new networks. Those configurations can then be further broken down into either hybrid or hierarchical configurations. In a hierarchical configuration the SMO performs configuration and FCAPS/LCM with the O-DU which in does that for the O-RUs. In a hybrid configuration, the SMO can perform operations with either the O-DU and/or the O-RU. The O-DUs that share the O-RU can be from either common or different vendors. It can be envisaged that many more possible configurations or variations of those basic configurations could be supported by the following sub-use cases. For example, more than just two O-DUs. Sub-use cases present solutions that are intended to apply to all these possible configurations. Exceptions can arise from the variations of the resiliency sub-use case. The collection of the sub-use cases either bring a Shared O-RU into operation by performing vital aspects of getting a Shared O-RU initially working; or they try to keep a Shared O-RU operational. Additionally, these sub-use cases apply to some other use cases such as class 2 BBU pooling (BBU pooling to achieve RAN elasticity use case), RAN sharing, and advanced multi-vendor multi-operator network slicing operation (multi-vendor slices). Support for different configuration, resiliency operation and, supervision that apply to Shared O-RU will often be relevant to these other related use cases as well. These other related use cases can use the following sub-use cases as building blocks operations because they provide basic goals and objectives to getting a Shared O-RU operational and keeping it running. Thus, the sub-use cases are likely be applicable to many those use cases outside of just this Shared O-RU use case.

#### 4.20.3.2 Resource partitioning use case of Shared O-RU for Single-MNO
The following describes the solution for the resource partitioning sub-use case for a Shared O-RU. The context of the resource partitioning use case of Shared O-RU is captured in table 4.20.3.2-1. For mTLS, TLS and NACM security for this Shared O-RU sub-use case see requirements SEC-CTL-SharedORU-1, SEC- CTL-SharedORU-3 and SEC-CTL-SharedORU-4 in the O-RAN.WG11.TS.Security-Requirements-Specification.0- R004-v11.00 [39], clause 5.1.9.2. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal rApp has details on how a Shared O-RU’s resource are to be partitioned. SMO provides inventory details of Shared O-RU and O-DUs. Sharing co-ordinator recovers inventory and decides on partitioning of carriers Actors and Roles between O-DUs. Sharing co-ordinator uses resource partitioning rApp to partition resource configuration of a Shared O-RU between O-DUs. All relevant functions and components are instantiated. Assumptions Inventory management systems identify Shared O-RU carrier capabilities and available O-DUs. Begins when Sharing co-ordinator decides to share an O-RU between multiple O-DUs. Pre-conditions Inventory system is up to date. Sharing co-ordinator recovers O-RU and O-DU inventory and decides on Step 1 (M) resource partitioning. Sharing co-ordinator resource partitioning rApp to partition Shared O-RU Step 2 (M) between multiple O-DUs. Step 3 (M) rApp signals O-DU identity(ies) to configuration management system. Configuration management system configures transport systems with call O-RAN.WG4.MP Step 4 (M) home identity(ies) for O-DU(s). [28], clause 6.2.5 Ends when rApp has details on how Shared O-RU’s resource are to be partitioned. Exceptions None identified. Post Conditions None identified. The flow diagram of the resource partitioning use case is given in figure 4.20.3.2-1.

#### 4.20.3.3 Start-up use case of Shared O-RU for Single-MNO
The following describes the solution for the start-up sub-use case for a Shared O-RU. The context of the Shared O-RU start-up use case is captured in table 4.20.3.3-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use The Shared O-RU is operating with the necessary software version and Goal has established network connectivity with the O-DU(s) and, for hybrid deployments, the SMO. Shared O-RU calls home and establishes network management session. SMO is responsible for software management for the Shared O-RU when Actors and operating in hybrid management mode. Roles O-DU is responsible for software management for the Shared O-RU when operating in hierarchical management mode. Assumptions None. Begins when Shared O-RU powers on. Transport systems (DHCP server) has been configured with call home Pre-conditions configuration information. Step 1 (M) Establish synchronization: <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Each O-DU and Shared O-RU establish synchronisation with a timing source, for example PTP (IEEE 1588) or Sync-E. See NOTE 1, NOTE 2. Synchronization State Change Notification: After the O-RU has a synchronisation source, all subscribed O-DU(s) are notified through a Synchronisation State Change Notification. We expect the O-RU to be in the sync state “LOCKED”. The Synchronisation State Change Notification goes from Shared O-RU Step 2 (M) to all subscribed O-DU(s). It is possible that the synchronisation procedure can happen in parallel to the other steps of the start-up sub-use case. Thus, many of the other steps in this use case can happen as the synchronization procedure occurs. Even though this is shown as “step 2” this can complete after other steps. [Shared O-RU operated in hybrid management mode] O-RAN.WG4.MP [28], clause 6.3 Step 3 (ALT) Shared O-RU calls home and triggers establishment of network and/or clause management session with SMO. 6.9.2 [Shared O-RU operated in hierarchical management mode] Step 4 (ALT) Shared O-RU calls home and triggers establishment of network [28], clause 6.3 management session with O-DU#1. [Shared O-RU operated in hierarchical management mode] Step 5 (ALT) Shared O-RU calls home and triggers establishment of network [28], clause 6.3 management session with O-DU#2. [Shared O-RU operated in hybrid management mode] Step 6 (ALT) [28], clause 8.4 SMO recovers software inventory. [Shared O-RU operated in hybrid management mode and software update required] O-RAN.WG4.MP Step 7 (O) [28], clause 8.5 SMO triggers download of new software. [Shared O-RU operated in hybrid management mode and software update required] O-RAN.WG4.MP Step 8 (O) [28], clause 8.5 O-RU downloads software files. [Shared O-RU operated in hybrid management mode and software update required] Step 9 (O) [28], clauses 8.6 and 8.7 SMO triggers the installation and activation of the software. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use [Shared O-RU operated in hybrid management mode and software update required] O-RAN.WG4.MP Step 10 (O) [28], clause 8.7 SMO brings active software into operation. [Shared O-RU operated in hierarchical management mode] Step 11 (ALT) [28], clause 8.4 O-DU recovers software inventory. [Shared O-RU operated in hierarchical management mode and software update required] O-RAN.WG4.MP Step 12 (O) [28], clause 8.5 O-DU triggers download of new software. [Shared O-RU operated in hierarchical management mode and software update required] O-RAN.WG4.MP Step 13 (O) [28], clause 8.5 O-RU downloads software files. [Shared O-RU operated in hierarchical management mode and software update required] Step 14 (O) [28], clauses 8.6 and 8.7 O-DU triggers the installation and activation of the software. [Shared O-RU operated in hierarchical management mode and software update required] O-RAN.WG4.MP Step 15 (O) [28], clause 8.7 O-DU brings active software into operation. The Shared O-RU is operating with the necessary software version and Ends when has established network connectivity with the O-DU and, for hybrid deployments, the SMO. Exceptions None identified. Post Conditions None identified.
> NOTE 1: It is expected the O-RU and all O-DUs connected it would share the same synchronisation source
otherwise, the O-DUs will drift in timing.
> NOTE 2: For more details on O-RU sync and O-RU loss of sync, see O-RAN.WG4.MP [28], clause 15.3.3.
The flow diagram of the Shared O-RU start-up use case is given in figure 4.20.3.3-1.

#### 4.20.3.4 Configuration use case of a Shared O-RU for Single & Multi-MNO
The following describes the solution for the configuration sub-use case for a Shared O-RU. The context of the Shared O-RU configuration use case is captured in table 4.20.3.4-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal The Shared O-RU is configured to operate with multiple O-DUs. SMO responsible for Shared O-RU common configuration when operating in hybrid management mode. SMO optionally can subscribe to receive notifications of modifications to Shared O-RU’s configuration. When operating in hierarchical management mode, rApp is responsible for determining which O-DU is responsible for common configuration aspects. Actors and Roles Shared O-RU responsible for role-based access control based on PLMN- Id. O-DU is responsible for Shared O-RU carrier configuration and optionally, when operating in hierarchical management mode, the Shared O-RU common configuration. Sharing co-ordinator can check the Shared O-RU’s committed configuration complies with any sharing agreement. Assumptions None. Shared O-RU has started up and has been configured with correct Begins when software version. Pre-conditions None. [Shared O-RU operated in hierarchical management mode] Step 1 (O) rApp determines which O-DU is responsible for common configuration of Shared O-RU. rApp triggers the configuration of the common aspects of the Shared O- Step 2 (M) RU. Non-RT RIC triggers the configuration of the common aspects of the Step 3 (M) Shared O-RU. [Hybrid or neutral host management mode] Step 4 (ALT) SMO uses OpenFronthaul interface to configure common aspects of [28], clause 9 Shared O-RU. [Hierarchical management mode] Step 5 (ALT) SMO uses O1 interface to configure Shared O-RU’s common aspects via O-DU. [Hierarchical management mode] Step 6 (ALT) O-DU uses OpenFronthaul interface to configure common aspects of [28], clause 9 Shared O-RU. Step 7 (O) Shared O-RU calls home to tenant’s O-DU (multi-operator). Step 8 (O) Shared O-RU calls home to tenant’s SMO (multi-operator). rApp triggers the configuration of the carrier aspects of the Shared O-RU Step 9 (O) (non-neutral host). <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Non-RT RIC triggers the configuration of the carrier aspects of the Shared Step 10 (O) O-RU. Step 11 (O) SMO configures O-DU#1 and partitioned carrier information #1. O-DU#1 configures partitioned carrier information #1 on Shared O-RU O-RAN.WG4.MP Step 12 (O) non-neutral host). [28], clause 9 Tenant’s SMO configures O-DU#2 and partitioned carrier information #2 Step 13 (O) (multi-operator). O-DU#2 configures partitioned carrier information #2 on Shared O-RU. O-RAN.WG4.MP Step 14 (M) [28], clause 9 Step 15 (O) Shared O-RU implements role-based access control based oplmn-id#2. The Shared O-RU notifies SMO of its modified configuration. O-RAN.WG4.MP Step 16 (O) [28], clause 9.4 SMO signals Non-RT RIC information pertaining to changed Step 17 (O) configuration. Non-RT RIC signals changed configuration to Shared O-RU Step 18 (O) orchestration rApp. Sharing co-ordinator checks that the changed configuration compliance Step 19 (O) with the sharing agreement. Host sharing co-ordinator indicates non-compliance with tenant sharing Step 20 (O) co-ordinator and remedial actions agreed (out of band exchange). The Shared O-RU is configured with common aspects and partitioned Ends when carrier#1 for O-DU#1 and partitioned carrier #2 for O-DU#2. Exceptions None identified. Post Conditions See NOTE.
> NOTE: Before activation of carriers, O-RU needs to have sync state “LOCKED” with its sync source. For more
details, see O-RAN.WG4.MP [28], clause 15.3.3. The flow diagram of the Shared O-RU configuration use case is given in figure 4.20.3.4-1.

#### 4.20.3.5 Supervision use case of a Shared O-RU for Single-MNO
The following describes the solution for the supervision sub-use case for a Shared O-RU. The context of the supervision use case of a Shared O-RU is captured in table 4.20.3.5-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use The Shared O-RU operates watchdog timers with each of its O-DUs and Goal ceases transmitting on a partitioned carrier associated with an O-DU if is watchdog timer to that O-DU expires. Shared O-RU operates watchdog timers and deactivates any carriers associated with an expired watchdog timer. Actors and Roles O-DU repeatedly resets the Shared O-RU’s supervision timer. SMO forwards any alarms to Shared O-RU rApp. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use O-DUs are operating fronthaul control and user plane for their respective partitioned carriers. Assumptions SMO has subscribed to receive alarm notifications (hybrid management model). Begins when An O-DU subscribes to receive supervision notifications. Step 1 (Loop) O-DU#1 performs supervision operations. Shared O-RU detects supervision failure with O-DU#1 and ceases Step 2 (O) transmitting on partitioned carrier associated with O-DU. Step 3 (O) Shared O-RU sends alarm notification to Fault Management Step 4 (O) Fault management sends alarm notification to Non-RT RIC. Step 5 (O) Non-RT RIC sends alarm notification to Shared O-RU orchestration rApp. Step 6 (Loop) O-DU#2 performs supervision operations. Shared O-RU detects supervision failure with O-DU#2 and ceases Step 7 (O) transmitting on partitioned carrier associated with O-DU. Step 8 (O) Shared O-RU sends alarm notification to fault management. Step 9 (O) Fault management sends alarm notification to Non-RT RIC. Step 10 (O) Non-RT RIC sends alarm notification to Shared O-RU orchestration rApp. Ends when O-DU terminates subscription to supervision notification. Exceptions None identified. Post Conditions None identified. The flow diagram of the supervision use case of a Shared O-RU is given in figure 4.20.3.5-1.

#### 4.20.3.6 Performance management use case of a Shared O-RU for Single-MNO
The following describes the solution for the performance management sub-use case for a Shared O-RU. The context of the performance management use case of a Shared O-RU is captured in table 4.20.3.6-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Each O-DU has established subscriptions to receive performance management notifications regarding operation of the fronthaul between the O-DUs and Shared O-RU. Goal The O-DU and Shared O-RU are able to report performance measurement data towards their consumers in a Multi-MNO configuration. Shared O-RU generates performance management notifications on a per partitioned carrier basis. Actors and Roles O-DU subscribes to receive performance management notifications from Shared O-RU. O-DU has configured performance management metrics for respective Assumptions partitioned carrier. Fronthaul control and user plane is operational between O-DU and Begins when Shared O-RU. Step 1 (M) O-DU#1 subscribes to receive PM notifications from Shared O-RU. Step 2 (M) O-DU#2 subscribes to receive PM notifications from Shared O-RU. Step 3 (loop) Shared O-RU sends PM notification to O-DU#1. Step 4 (loop) Shared O-RU sends PM notification to O-DU#2. O-DU to SMO performance operations PM event notification reporting Step 1 (O) The O-DU (producer) sends performance data to the SMO (consumer) through an event notification. Streaming PM reports Step 2 (O) The O-DU establishes a persistent connection to the SMO (consumer) and sends performance data. Attribute-based or URI-based collection Step 3 (O) Performance data is read by the consumer (SMO) through configuration management attribute. Alternatively, the O-DU can support a data scraping method where a collector (SMO) reads the data from a pre- defined URI. Producer or PM file upload (file upload) Step 4 (O) O-DU uploads a PM file to the SMO. See NOTE 1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Consumer downloads PM file (file download) Step 5 (O) O-DU issues file ready notification to SMO about the data being ready for download, or SMO periodically polls the O-DU. Afterwards, the SMO (consumer) can download the PM file. O-RU to O-DU performance operations (in hierarchical configuration) PM event notification reporting Step 1 (O) The O-RU sends performance data to the O-DU through an event notification. The notification is sent to a subscriber of performance data. O-DU requests for O-RU to start sending PM data O-DU invokes an RPC to give PM credentials, target URI, and periodicity notification interval to the Shared O-RU. This includes all the necessary Step 1 (M) information for the O-RU to perform a file transfer to an endpoint periodically. See NOTE 2. Shared O-RU uploads PM file Step 2 (M) The Shared O-RU periodically uploads a performance file to the target URI using the PM credentials given by the O-DU. O-RU to SMO performance operations (in hybrid configuration) PM event notification reporting Step 1 (O) The O-RU sends performance data to the SMO through an event notification via M-plane. SMO requests for O-RU to start sending PM data Step 1 (O) SMO invokes an RPC to give PM credentials, target URI, and periodicity notification interval to the Shared O-RU. This includes all the necessary information for the O-RU to perform a file transfer to an endpoint periodically. Shared O-RU uploads PM file Step 2 (O) The Shared O-RU uploads performance file to target URI using PM credentials given by the SMO. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use 1) Subscriptions setup: O-DU terminates subscription to performance management notification. 2) O-DU to SMO sending PM data: Use case ends with the producer Ends when (O-DU) sending performance data to the consumer (SMO). 3) O-RU sending performance data: Use case ends with the producer (O-RU) starting to send performance data to the subscriber. Exceptions None identified. The consumer has received performance data and may perform post Post Conditions processing operations on the data.
> NOTE 1: When the O-DU sends performance files received from a Shared O-RU, they are converted to the proper
3GPP format before sending to SMO. See O-RAN WG5.O-DU-O1 [25].
> NOTE 2: The O-DU establishes a framework for the Shared O-RU to send PM files. This operation is performed
only once, thereafter, the Shared O-RU sends the PM files periodically. The flow diagram of the performance management use case of a Shared O-RU is given in figure 4.20.3.6-1.

#### 4.20.3.7 Antenna Line Device (ALD) control use case of a Shared O-RU for Single-MNO
The following describes the solution for the ALD control sub-use case for a Shared O-RU. The context of the antenna line device control use case of a Shared O-RU is captured in table 4.20.3.7-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use The ALD connected to Shared O-RU is configured to operate with ALD Goal controller. rApp is responsible for determining which O-DU is responsible for ALD controller aspects. Actors and O-DU is responsible for implementing ALD controller. Roles O-RU is responsible for bridging between OFH and HDLC. ALD is responsible for terminating HDLC. Assumptions None. Shared O-RU has started up and has been configured with correct Begins when software version. Pre-conditions None. rApp determines which O-DU is responsible for performing ALD controller Step 1 (M) functionality. Step 2 (M) rApp triggers the configuration of the ALD controller for Shared O-RU. Step 3 (M) Non-RT RIC triggers the configuration of ALD controller for Shared O-RU. Step 4 (M) SMO uses O1 interface to configure ALD controller in O-DU. O-DU uses OpenFronthaul interface to configure ALD aspects of Shared O-RAN.WG4.MP Step 5 (M) O-RU. [28], clause 9 O-DU uses OpenFronthaul interface to signal ALD. O-RAN.WG4.MP Step 6 (M) [28], clause 14.4 Shared O-RU provides interworking between OFH and HDLC. O-RAN.WG4.MP Step 7 (M) [28], clause 14.4 Ends when ALD connected to Shared O-RU is configured correctly. Exceptions None identified. Post Conditions None identified. The flow diagram of the antenna line device use case is given in figure 4.20.3.7-1.

#### 4.20.3.8 Basic resiliency use case (active O-DU failure) for Single-MNO
The following describes the solution for the basic resiliency sub-use case for a Shared O-RU. The context of the basic resiliency use case of a Shared O-RU is captured in table 4.20.3.8-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use The goal of this sub-use case is to handle situations related to resiliency operations with the Shared O-RU when the O-DU is out of service. Goal This is a service impacting use case. Shared O-RU The Shared O-RU handles the fronthaul and air interfaces and the reporting of performance counters and failures. O-DUs (active/standby O-DUs) Actors and All the O-DUs connected to the Shared O-RU are actors that are Roles involved in basic resiliency scenario. O-CU: O-CU receives cell related configurations from SMO and available cell details from O-DU(s). Based on the available resources reported by O-DU and desired availability of cells <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use received from SMO, the O-CU activates or deactivates the cells in the O-DU using F1 interface. SMO: The SMO configures the role of O-DUs as active or standby O-DUs and informs these roles to Shared O-RU through O-DU in hierarchical deployment. It makes high-level decisions related to conditions listed in clause 4.20.1.8. It is assumed that when active O-DU fails, there is still at least one standby O-DU having active NetConf session with the Shared O-RU. Assumptions It is assumed that the resiliency operations are intended to take over the Shared O-RU operation and recover the service to the end user. There are many possible scenarios that trigger the basic resiliency use case as described in clause 4.20.1.8. In this basic resiliency use case, only the complete failure of a O-DU is considered. Begins when The purpose of the resiliency use case is to keep the Shared O-RU & O- DU system operational in the case of a failure of the active O-DU. This use case begins when the active O-DU encounters a failure (operational state = disabled). The Shared O-RU has the NetConf connectivity with two or more O-DUs. CU plane monitoring has been properly configured which sets up a Pre-conditions communication monitoring interval for the interface between the Shared O-RU and active O-DU. O-DUs have subscribed to alarm notifications successfully. Basic resiliency use case – Initial system setup The SMO may configure O-DU#1 to take active role in controlling the Step 1.1 (M) Shared O-RU. It then configures the cells and corresponding carrier resources (including NRCGI(s) for the cells) via the O1 interface. O-DU configures the carriers in O-RU, corresponding to the carrier Step 1.2 (M) resources outlined in step 1. Step 1.3 (M) The SMO may configure O-DU#2 to take standby role via O1 interface. SMO may provide O-CU with information via the O1 interface regarding Step 1.4 (M) which cell(s) (NRCGI(s)) associated with O-DU#1 need to be activated. See NOTE 1, NOTE 2, NOTE 3, NOTE 4. Basic resiliency use case – O-DU#1 failure detection <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Active O-DU fails Active O-DU (the one serving as the active role) is no longer operational. The O-DU is no longer able to provide service. The O-DU has operational Step 2 (M) state = disabled. The Shared O-RU losses communication with the active O-DU. See NOTE 5. O-RU raises alarms to subscribers Step 3 (M) The Shared O-RU raises the loss of connectivity alarm to subscriber(s). The simple case shows that the O-DU#1 and O-DU#2 are subscribers. The Shared O-RU raises an alarm to subscribers (O-DUs) that are still active that is O-DU #2, connected and subscribed. Alarm forwarded Step 4 (M) The Shared O-RU alarm is forwarded to the managing entity, such as the SMO. It is possible that the SMO will make the decision for making the standby O-DU#2 into the active O-DU. SMO provides O-CU with information regarding which cell(s) (NRCGI(s)) Step 5 (M) associated with O-DU#2 need to be made inactive and/or removed. Recover Shared O-RU operation The SMO may configure O-DU#2 to take standby role via O1 interface. Step 6.1 (M) See NOTE 6. O-DU#2 becomes the active O-DU to recover Shared O-RU operation. Step 6.2 (M) See NOTE 7. O-DU configures the carriers in O-RU, corresponding to the carrier Step 6.3 (M) resources outlined in step 6.1. See NOTE 8. SMO provides O-CU with information regarding which cell(s) (NRCGI(s)) Step 6.4 (M) associated with O-DU#2 need to be activated. See NOTE 1, NOTE 2,
> NOTE 9, NOTE 10, NOTE 11.
The use case ends when the standby O-DU, O-DU#2 shown in the flow Ends when diagram has taken over for the previously active O-DU, O-DU #1. There are many possible exceptions. Some of these include: If the Shared O-RU fails during a switch over. If the standby O-DU#2 also becomes unavailable when it is due to Exceptions become active. If any event messaging for the flow is lost. If configuration was not done properly. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use If the standby O-DU losses the configuration data from the configuration replica. If the active O-DU returns to service while the standby O-DU is trying to become the active O-DU. If the connectivity, or functionality of the management system (SMO) becomes unavailable. Successful post condition – On a successful post-condition, the Shared O-RU is connected to the newly active O-DU, the newly active O-DU is operational and has properly synced with the O-RU. Post Conditions Failure post condition – If one of the various exception cases occurs, there are a variety of failure post conditions. If no O-DUs are available and the O-RU is orphaned no service is available and the O-RU shall shut down operations. If misconfiguration occurs the O-RU will respond accordingly. If there are ever two active O-DUs, the Shared O-RU will operate accordingly.
> NOTE 1: When cells and corresponding carriers are configured and available for service, the O-DU informs O-CU
about cells availability using F1 interface. O-CU requests O-DU to activate the cell(s) (NRCGI(s)), using the associated messages exchanged via the F1 interface. O-DU activates the carrier in O-RU that are associated with the specific cell(s) (NRCGI(s)) requested for activation.
> NOTE 2: O-DU activates carriers related to cell(s) requested by O-CU. O-DU uses the F1 interface to inform O-CU
about activation status for cells requested.
> NOTE 3: Shared O-RU becomes operational with O-DU#1 with cell on air and ready to serve UEs.
> NOTE 4: SMO collects alarms and performance management data from O-DU#1.
> NOTE 5: The active O-DU can be no longer operational for a variety of reasons. (see the “Begins when” section).
> NOTE 6: There might be multiple other O-DUs, but only one active O-DU. The management system, SMO, shall know
and coordinate and ensure that there is only one active O-DU.
> NOTE 7: There are preconditions that are relevant and necessary for this to happen. It is necessary that a call home
between the O-RU and standby O-DU, and the replication of the configuration information has occurred, and that the standby O-DU has the configuration of the active O-DU.
> NOTE 8: The new active O-DU has control only of its carriers. The new O-DU does not handle ALDs.
> NOTE 9: Shared O-RU operations are restored with O-DU#2, subsequently services to the users are reestablished,
i.e., CUS-plane is up and running.
> NOTE 10: SMO collects the alarms and performance management data from O-DU#2.
> NOTE 11: The transition of the active role from O-DU#2 back to O-DU#1 involves the same steps as the initial transition
from the O-DU#1 to O-DU#2, with the exception of which O-DU is to be activated. This activity is initiated based on a trigger from the SMO and/or the operator's decision. The flow diagram of the basic resiliency use case is given in figure 4.20.3.8-1.

#### 4.20.3.9 Antenna calibration use case of a Shared O-RU for Single-MNO
The following describes the solution for the antenna calibration sub-use case for a Shared O-RU in a Single-MNO configuration. The step-by-step details of the antenna calibration use case of a Shared O-RU are captured in table 4.20.3.9-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use The host O-DU performs an antenna calibration procedure with the Shared O-RU. Goal The O-DU reports antenna calibration results to the SMO. Shared O-RU performs the antenna calibration procedure. Actors and O-DU (host) can request for antenna calibration procedure with Shared Roles O-RU. SMO can receive results from calibration. O-DU has connectivity to O-RU. All actors are operational and have initialized. Assumptions Fronthaul control and user plane is operational between O-DU and Shared O-RU. 1. The Shared O-RU has detected that antenna calibration is required. Begins when 2. The O-DU initiates an antenna calibration procedure. Recalibration required (O-RU initiated) Step 1.1 (O) The Shared O-RU has detected that antenna calibration is needed and sends an antenna calibration needed notification to the host O-DU over the open FH. In this case, the O-RU initiates the calibration procedure. Calibration request Step 1.2 (O) The host O-DU requests for antenna calibration procedure to start for Shared O-RU. Calibration request (O-DU initiated) Step 1 (M) The host O-DU requests for antenna calibration procedure to start for Shared O-RU. In this case the O-DU initiates the calibration procedure. Calibration operation at O-RU Step 2 (M) Shared O-RU performs antenna calibration procedure. Calibration response Step 3 (M) Shared O-RU responds with antenna calibration results. Calibration results Step 4 (M) The O-DU returns antenna calibration results to SMO. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use (1) Antenna calibrated: Antenna calibration procedure has finished, and Ends when results reported. The O-RU may indicate a calibration failure, which is reported to the O- Exceptions DU. The O-DU logs the failure and notifies north-bound entities. Post Conditions None. The flow diagram of the antenna calibration use case of a Shared O-RU for Single-MNO is given in figure 4.20.3.9-1.

#### 4.20.3.10 Rehoming use case of a Shared O-RU for Single-MNO
The following will describe the solution for the rehoming sub-use case for a Shared O-RU. The context of the rehoming use case of a Shared O-RU for Single-MNO is captured in table 4.20.3.10-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use

# A Shared O-RU is rehomed and is able to pair with new O-DU or existing
Goal (previous) O-DU parents. Shared O-RU is the element that is rehomed. Host O-DU (old) is the original Shared O-RU parent. SRO O-DU (old) is another original O-DU Shared O-RU is connected to. Actors and Roles Host O-DU (new) is the new Shared O-RU parent. SRO O-DU (new) is another new O-DU Shared O-RU is connected to. SMO can receive results from calibration. The Shared O-RU is in a deployment with the original (old) O-DUs and will be moved to the new ones or could stay with original O-DUs (as parents). Assumptions (Typically) the operator will plan a Shared O-RU rehoming activity before they actually perform the operations related to the move. This use case starts with any of these three situations: Case #1 starts when the Shared O-RU is physically moved to a new location (however still connected to original O-DUs). Begins when Case #2 starts when the Shared O-RU is physically moved to a new location but is connected to new O-DUs. Case #3 starts when the Shared O-RU stays in same physical location but is connected to new O-DUs (management-initiated rehoming). Case #1 – O-RU is physically moved with same O-DU parents Shared O-RU is disconnected from original O-DUs Step 1 (M) The Shared O-RU is physically disconnected (fiber disconnected) from the existing O-DU parents. Then, the Shared O-RU is physically moved to a new location. Shared O-RU is reconnected to original O-DUs Step 2 (M) The Shared O-RU is either physically reconnected (different fiber) or connected at the transport layer (with the original fiber) to the original O- DU parents, and the following sub-use cases are triggered as a result: <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use
- Shared O-RU startup sub-use case
- Configuration sub-use case
- Resource partitioning sub-use case
- Reset sub-use case supervision sub-use case
Case #2 – O-RU is physically moved with new O-DU parents Shared O-RU is disconnected from original O-DUs Step 1 (M) The Shared O-RU is physically disconnected (fiber disconnected) from the former O-DU parents. Then, the Shared O-RU is physically moved to a new location. Shared O-RU is connected to new O-DUs The Shared O-RU is either physically reconnected (different fiber) or connected at the transport layer (with the original fiber) to new O-DU parents, and the following sub-use cases are triggered as a result: Step 2 (M)
- Shared O-RU startup sub-use case
- Configuration sub-use case
- Resource partitioning sub-use case
- Reset sub-use case supervision sub-use case
Case #3 – Management initiated rehoming Management initiated rehoming for Shared O-RU Step 1 (M) Shared O-RU already has physical front-haul connections in place. SMO initiates rehoming operation with connected O-DUs to the Shared O-RU. Shared O-RU starts up The Shared O-RU starts up with the new O-DU parents, and the following sub-use cases are triggered as a result: Step 2 (M)
- Shared O-RU startup sub-use case
- Configuration sub-use case
- Resource partitioning sub-use case
- Reset sub-use case supervision sub-use case
The Shared O-RU has been moved and connected to the appropriate O- Ends when DUs, and is operational again. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Exceptions None. Post Conditions None. The flow diagram of the rehoming use case of a Shared O-RU for Single-MNO is given in figure 4.20.3.10-1. The flow diagram of the rehoming use case of a Shared O-RU for Single-MNO is given in figure 4.20.3.10-2.

#### 4.20.3.11 Reset use case of a Shared O-RU for Single-MNO
The following describes the solution for the reset sub-use case for a Shared O-RU. The context of the reset use case of a Shared O-RU is captured in table 4.20.3.11-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use The goal of this sub-use case is to describe the flow related to reset of Shared O-RU for a Single-MNO operator configuration. Goal This is a service impacting use case. Shared O-RU: The Shared O-RU is a key actor. It undergoes reset in this use case. The Shared O-RU can be reset by intention/request or autonomously. O-DUs (host/tenant/ &other O-DUs): Actors and All the O-DUs connected to the Shared O-RU are actors are Roles involved in the reset operation. O-DU#1 has the role of the Shared O-RU host, it also has a role of Shared Resource Operator (SRO). O-DU#2 is only an SRO. SMO: The SMO is informed by the O-DU that O-RU has been reset or issues a reset. It is assumed that there is always at least one O-DU still operational with the Shared O-RU. Assumptions This use case describes the flow for a Single-MNO operator configuration. The reset of a Shared O-RU use case can be invoked when there is a direct request to reset the Shared O-RU, or it can be reset autonomously. Begins when There are many possible reasons why a Shared O-RU can need to be intentionally reset. Maintenance, software upgrade, network failure, power outages, communication link issues are just some of the many possible situations where the active O-RU would be reset. The Shared O-RU has connectivity to one or more O-DUs (and one of them is serving the primary role). Pre-conditions The Shared O-DU has been configured originally by the active O-DU, and also carriers for the standby O-DUs. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use O-DUs have subscribed to alarm notifications successfully. [Shared O-RU reset flow] Reset request from SMO Step 1 (M) A reset request is communicated from the SMO to the Shared O-RU host (O-DU #1). The reset request can be originated from the SMO for a variety of reasons. Reset request from O-DU Step 2 (M) The reset request is communicated onward from the Shared O-RU host (O-DU #1) to the Shared O-RU through the open front-haul interface. Reset reply Step 3 (M) The Shared O-RU RPC Reply Acknowledge is sent from the Shared O- RU to the Shared O-RU host (O-DU #1). Shared O-RU reset Step 4 (M) Once invoked, the Shared O-RU goes through its reset sequence to complete the reset operation. Reset response Step 5 (M) The Shared O-RU host (O-DU #1) informs the SMO with a reset response. [Autonomous reset flow] Autonomous Shared O-RU reset Step 6 (M) The Shared O-RU is autonomously reset. Step 7 (M) O-DU initial detects loss of connection. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use The Shared O-DU host (O-DU #1) detects loss of polling as a result of the autonomous O-RU reset. It can also detect a call home signal from a Shared O-RU that just had a valid M-plane session. O-DU determines loss of connection. The O-DU can deduce that O-RU has a lost connection with broken polling with the O-DU. The O-DU does not know if the O-RU was performing a reset or if there was other reason for the lost connection, for example, a broken optical fiber. The O-DU can only report lost Step 8 (M) connection to O-RU in such a case. The O-DU redetects the Shared O-RU through a call home from the Shared O-RU. Then the Shared O-RU Start up sequence of that sub- use case happens (see the ref flow). Afterwards, the O-DU can read the reset cause from the Shared O-RU. O-DU informs SMO. When the O-DU #1 starts sensing call home signals from O-RU, O-DU can deduce that O-RU has returns to service after a reset. Afterwards, the O-DU #1 can read the restart cause. Then, the Shared O-DU host can report to SMO that O-RU is re-detected and what was the reason Step 9 (M) why the O-RU reset. Then O-DU can fill update its aggregated model with details obtained from the O-RU and populate this information to SMO. Step 14 When O-DU redetects, the SMO can clear the alarm. The use case ends the Shared O-RU has reset whether by reset or by autonomous reset. Ends when There are many possible exceptions. Some of these include: The Shared O-RU was not able to successfully reset. The O-DU #1 was not able to properly detect lost connection with the Exceptions Shared O-RU through loss of polling or call home signal was never sent. The O-DU #1 was not able to establish a restore connection to the Shared O-RU after reset. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Successful post condition – On a successful post-condition, the Shared O-RU is reset, and has restored connectivity to the Shared O-RU host (O-DU #1). Post Conditions Failure post condition – One of the failure exceptions has been encountered. The flow diagram of the reset use case is given in figure 4.20.3.11-1.

#### 4.20.3.12 Advanced resiliency sub-use cases of a Shared O-RU for Single-MNO
Advanced resiliency sub-use cases describe interactions between actors for resiliency operations.

##### 4.20.3.12.1 Advanced resiliency sub-use case with 1 O-DU active + 1 O-DU standby (1+1)
The context of the advanced resiliency sub-use case with 1 O-DU active + 1 O-DU standby (1+1) is captured in table 4.20.3.12.1-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use The objective of this sub-use case is to manage resiliency operations involving the active and stand-by O-DUs with the Shared O-RU. This includes system behaviour in situations such as partial O-DU failures, interface failures, and power outages related to the O-DU. This ensures Goal to restore the service availability to end users. This is a service impacting use case. Shared O-RU: The Shared O-RU handles the fronthaul and air interfaces and the reporting of performance counters and failures. O-DUs (active/stand-by O-DUs): O-DUs may receive configurations from SMO. The O-DU may report performance counters and alarms to SMO. The O-DU is also responsible for configuring and collecting the performance data and alarms from O-RU(s) in hierarchical deployment. This use case focusses on active / stand-by role change for O-DUs to minimize service disruption. Actors and O-CU: Roles O-CU receives cell related configurations from SMO and available cell details from O-DU(s). Respectively to available resources reported by O-DU and desired availability of cells received from SMO. The O-CU activates or deactivates the cells in the O-DU using F1 interface. SMO: The SMO configures the role of O-DUs as active and standby O- DUs and informs these roles to Shared O-RU through O-DU in hierarchical deployment or directly in case of hybrid deployment. SMO also makes high-level decisions about O-DU role change based on e.g., received alarms and degraded performance. The assumptions are based on the premise that there will always be at Assumptions least one O-DU remains operational with the Shared O-RU. This use case is triggered when the SMO detects the partial failure related to active O-DU based on alarms or service performance Begins when degradation. The use case may also be triggered due to various interfaces malfunction or service degradation. 1. The Shared O-RU is on. Pre-conditions 2. Prior carrier activation (step 6) O-RU's sync-state is "locked". 3. All actors are connected to same sync source. The SMO may configure O-DU#1 to take active role in controlling the Step 1 (M) Shared O-RU. It then configures the cells and corresponding carrier resources (including NRCGI(s) for the cells) via the O1 interface. O-DU configures the [tr]x-array-carrier(s) in O-RU, corresponding to Step 2 (M) the carrier resources outlined in step 1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Step 3 (M) The SMO may configure O-DU#2 to take stand-by role via O1 interface. SMO may provide O-CU with information regarding which cell(s) Step 4 (M) (NRCGI(s)) associated with O-DU#1 need to be activated. When cells and corresponding carriers are configured and available for Step 5 (M) service, the O-DU informs O-CU about cells availability using F1 interface. O-CU requests O-DU#1 to activate the cell(s) (NRCGI(s)), using the Step 6 (M) associated messages exchanged via the F1 interface. O-DU#1 activates the [tr]x-array-carrier(s) in O-RU that are associated Step 7 (M) with the specific cell(s) (NRCGI(s)) requested for activation in step 6. Step 8 (M) O-DU#1 activates the cell(s) as requested by O-CU in step 6. O-DU#1 uses the F1 interface to inform O-CU about activation status for cells requested in step 6. Step 9 (M) See NOTE 1. Advanced resiliency use case for partial failure (interface or node)/performance degrade scenarios. SMO makes a high-level decision to make the Shared O-RU remains operational by initiating an O-DU switch See NOTE 2 and NOTE 3. The SMO set the administrative state of the O-DU#1 to “locked” and its Step 10.1 (M) operational state is set to “disabled”. See NOTE 4. SMO removes the cell(s) configuration from O-DU#1. This results in removal of the associated carrier resources from Shared O-RU. Step 10.2 (M) See NOTE 5. O-DU#1 may send the RPCs to the O-RU via fronthaul M-plane to mentioned in Step 9.1. Step 10.3 (M) See NOTE 6. O-DU#1 informs O-CU about the cell(s) removal using associated messages via F1 interface. Step 10.4 (M) See NOTE 7. The SMO configures the cells (including NRCGI) and corresponding Step 10.5 (M) carrier resources to O-DU#2 via O1 interface. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use O-DU configures the [tr]x-array-carrier(s) in O-RU, corresponding to Step 10.6 (M) the carrier resources outlined in step 10.5. SMO provides O-CU with information regarding which cell(s) Step 10.7 (M) (NRCGI(s)) associated with O-DU#2 need to be activated. O-DU#2 informs O-CU, about the added cell(s) (NRCGI(s)) that are Step 10.8 (M) ready for activation via F1 interface using the associated messages. O-CU requests O-DU#2 to activate the cell(s) (NRCGI(s)), using the Step 10.9 (M) associated messages exchanged via the F1 interface. O-DU#2 activated [tr]x-array-carriers related to cells (NRCGI) Step 10.10 (M) requested by O-CU in step 10.9. Step 10.11 (M) O-DU#2 activates the cell(s) that were specified by O-CU in step 10.9. O-DU#2 informs O-CU about the cell(s) that are activated using associated messages via F1 interface. Step 10.12 (M) See NOTE 8, NOTE 9 and NOTE 10. This use case ends when roles are changed as per SMO's request (or Ends when when their process ends with non-recoverable error). There are several exceptions that may occur during this process. These include: 1. Shared O-RU fails during a switch over. 2. If the standby O-DU #2 also becomes unavailable when it is due to Exceptions become active. 3. If same event messaging for the flow is lost. 4. If configuration provided to O-DU or O-CU is improper. 5. If the connectivity or functionality of the management system (SMO) becomes unavailable. Successful post condition – O-DU's roles are changed successfully, services for end users are available. Post Conditions Failure post condition– O-RU does not have active O-DU connected and services for end user are not available.
> NOTE 1: Shared O-RU becomes operational with O-DU#1 with cell on air and ready to serve UEs.
> NOTE 2: SMO collects alarms and performance management data from O-DU#1.
> NOTE 3: When analysing the active alarms and performance counters, SMO may detect a partial failure of O-DU#1.
Scenario continues in case of partial failure is detected.
> NOTE 4: The meanings of administrate and operational states are defined in ITU-T X.731 [18].
> NOTE 5: If the above role change is due to M-plane failure between O-DU#1 and Shared O-RU, then O-DU#1 would
not have access to O-RU and hence cannot remove carriers. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use
> NOTE 6: If M-plane failure occurs between O-DU#1 and Shared O-RU, then the O-DU#1 would not have access to O-
RU and cannot deactivate and remove carriers.
> NOTE 7: If F1 interface failure occurs between O-CU and O-DU#1, then the O-DU#1 would not have access to O-CU
and hence it cannot request for cell(s) removal.
> NOTE 8: Shared O-RU operations are restored with O-DU#2 and begins providing services to the users, i.e., CUS-
plane is up and running.
> NOTE 9: SMO collects the alarms and performance management data from O-DU#1 (if it is only partial failure and not
lost communication, list of available PM counters reported by O-DU#1 will probably be reduced (when compared to the list available from fully operational O-DU)) and O-DU#2.
> NOTE 10: The transition of the active role from O-DU#2 back to O-DU#1 involves the same steps as the initial transition
from the O-DU#1 to O-DU#2, with the exception of which O-DU is to be activated. This activity is initiated based on a trigger from the SMO and/or the operator's decision. The flow diagram of the advanced resiliency sub-use case with 1 O-DU active + 1 O-DU standby (1+1) is given in figure 4.20.3.12.1-1. O-DUs with various resiliency situations

#### 4.20.3.13 Load-balancing sub-use cases of a Shared O-RU
The load-balancing sub-use cases describes the flow of how actors involved execute a policy to load-balance the resources of the O-DUs and Shared O-RU coordinated through a policy enforcer (actor).

#### 4.20.3.14 Coordinated reset of a Shared O-RU sub-use cases for Multi-MNO
The coordinated reset of a Shared O-RU sub-use cases describes the flow of how actors coordinate to reset Shared O-RU. The context of the coordinated reset of a Shared O-RU sub-use cases is captured in table 4.20.3.14-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Evolution / Specification Stage Related use Goal Coordinated reset of a Shared O-RU. Host SMO – The connected host SMO to the host O-DU. Partner SMO – The partner operator SMO. It connects to the SROs. Host O-DU – Host O-DU connected to the Shared O-RU. Actors and Roles Operator O-DU – The SRO O-DU connected to the Shared O-RU. Shared O-RU – The target Shared O-RU that will be reset. Assumptions None. There are four basic variations of a coordinated reset of a Shared O-RU. These are described in the following steps and diagrams. (1) Coordinated reset of a Shared O-RU initiated by host personnel Begins when (2) Coordinated reset of a Shared O-RU initiated by SRO personnel (3) Coordinated reset of a Shared O-RU autonomously initiated by host O-DU (4) Coordinated reset of a Shared O-RU autonomously initiated by SRO O-DU Pre-conditions None. Coordinated reset of Shared O-RU initiated by host personnel Reset request from operator Step 1 (M) The request for the coordinated reset of a Shared O-RU is initiated from the host operator and is received by the host operator SMO. Host SMO informs partner SMOs The host operator SMO informs associated SMOs that the coordinated reset of a Step 2 (M) Shared O-RU has been initiated. Associated SMOs are other SMOs which are connected to O-DUs that are connected to the affected Shared O-RU. See NOTE 1,
> NOTE 2.
Reset request from host SMO to host O-DU (hierarchal mode) Step 3.1 (ALT) The request for the coordinated reset of the target Shared O-RU is sent from the host operator SMO to the host O-DU over the O1 interface. See NOTE 3. Step 3.2 (ALT) Reset request from host O-DU to Shared O-RU (hierarchical mode) <<Uses>> Use Case Evolution / Specification Stage Related use In hierarchical mode, the coordinated reset request of the target Shared O-RU is sent from the host O-DU to the target Shared O-RU through the fronthaul as an RPC request. Reset request from host SMO to Shared O-RU (hybrid mode) Step 3.3 (ALT) In hybrid mode, the coordinated reset request of the target Shared O-RU is sent from the host SMO to target Shared O-RU as an RPC request via the M-plane. See
> NOTE 4.
Shared O-RU notifies the host O-DU Step 4 (M) The affected Shared O-RU notifies the host O-DU (hierarchical mode) or host SMO (hybrid mode). See NOTE 5, NOTE 6, NOTE 7. Host O-DU notifies the SMO Step 5 (M) The host O-DU informs the host SMO with a “Shared O-RU reset initiated” notification. Shared O-RU notifies other connected O-DUs Step 6 (M) The target Shared O-RU notifies other connected O-DUs as SROs. This is a notification message originating from the Shared O-RU with no specific ordering. O-DU notifies associated SMO Step 7 (M) The O-DU (SRO) informs its associated SMO with a “Shared O-RU reset initiated” notification. Shared O-RU notifies other connected O-DUs Step 8 (M) The target Shared O-RU notifies other connected O-DUs as SROs. This is a notification message originating from the Shared O-RU with no specific ordering. <<Uses>> Use Case Evolution / Specification Stage Related use O-DU notifies associated SMO Step 9 (M) The O-DU (SRO) informs its associated SMO with a “Shared O-RU reset initiated” notification. Shared O-RU notifes connected host O-DU Step 10 (M) The target Shared O-RU notifies the host O-DU (hierarchical mode) or host SMO (hybrid mode) with a reset response. This is an RPC reply-acknowledgement. Host O-DU notifies the SMO Step 11 (M) The host O-DU informs the host operator SMO that the Shared O-RU has executed the reset with a “Shared O-RU Reset Executed” notification. Shared O-RU reset & startup Step 12 (M) The Shared O-RU resets; and then initiates its start-up sequence. Coordinated reset of Shared O-RU initiated by SRO personnel Reset procedure initiated Step 1 (M) The partner operator has identified a need to reset the target Shared O-RU and initiates a reset procedure. Identify host Step 2 (M) The host for the target Shared O-RU is identified. Reset coordination Step 3 (M) Coordination between the operators can occur, so that the partner operator can indicate to the host the need for a reset. Step 4 (M) Reset request from operator <<Uses>> Use Case Evolution / Specification Stage Related use The reset request from the partner operator is sent to the partner SMO. Identify host Step 5 (M) The partner SMO identifies the proper host SMO for the target Shared O-RU. Reset request (coordination) Step 6 (M) The partner shared operator SMO sends a request to the host SMO to initiate a coordinate reset of the target Shared O-RU. Reset response (coordination) Step 7 (M) The host SMO responds to the partner shared operator SMO regarding the initiation of a coordinate reset of the target Shared O-RU. Reset request from host SMO to host O-DU (hierarchal mode) Step 8.1 (ALT) The request for the coordinated reset of the target Shared O-RU is sent from the host operator SMO to the host O-DU over the O1 interface. See NOTE 8. Reset request from host O-DU to SHARED O-RU (hierarchical mode) Step 8.2 (ALT) In hierarchical mode, the coordinated reset request of the target Shared O-RU is sent from the host O-DU to the target Shared O-RU through the fronthaul as an RPC request. Reset request from host SMO to Shared O-RU (hybrid mode) Step 8.3 (ALT) In hybrid mode, the coordinated reset request of the target Shared O-RU is sent from the host SMO to target Shared O-RU as an RPC request via the M-plane. See
> NOTE 9.
Step 9 (M) Shared O-RU notifies the host O-DU <<Uses>> Use Case Evolution / Specification Stage Related use The affected Shared O-RU notifies the host O-DU (hierarchical mode) or host SMO (hybrid mode). See NOTE 10, NOTE 11, NOTE 12. Host O-DU notifies the SMO Step 10 (M) The host O-DU informs the host SMO with a “Shared O-RU reset initiated” notification. Shared O-RU notifies other connected O-DUs Step 11 (M) The target Shared O-RU notifies other connected O-DUs as SROs. This is a notification message originating from the Shared O-RU with no specific ordering. O-DU notifies associated SMO Step 12 (M) The O-DU (SRO) informs its associated SMO with a “Shared O-RU reset initiated” notification. Shared O-RU notifies other connected O-DUs Step 13 (M) The target Shared O-RU notifies other connected O-DUs as SROs. This is a notification message originating from the Shared O-RU with no specific ordering. O-DU notifies associated SMO Step 14 (M) The O-DU (SRO) informs its associated SMO with a “Shared O-RU reset initiated” notification. Shared O-RU notifies connected host O-DU Step 15 (M) The target Shared O-RU notifies the host O-DU (hierarchical mode) or host SMO (hybrid mode) with a reset response. This is an RPC reply-acknowledgement. Step 16 (M) O-DU notifes the SMO <<Uses>> Use Case Evolution / Specification Stage Related use The host O-DU informs the host operator SMO that the Shared O-RU has executed the reset with a “Shared O-RU Reset Executed” notification. Shared O-RU reset & startup Step 17 (M) The Shared O-RU resets; and then initiates its start-up sequence. Coordinated reset of Shared O-RU autonomously initiated by host O-DU Reset request from host O-DU to Shared O-RU Step 1 (M) The reset request goes from the host O-DU to Shared O-RU through the fronthaul as an RPC request. Reset notification from host O-DU to SMO The notification of a coordinated reset for a Shared O-RU goes from host O-DU to Step 2 (M) the host operator SMO over the O1 interface. Host SMO informs partner SMOs (coordination) Step 3 (M) The host operator SMO informs associated SMOs that the coordinated reset of a Shared O-RU has been initiated. Associated SMOs are other SMOs which are connected to O-DUs that are connected to the affected Shared O-RU Partner SMOs respond to host SMO (coordination) Step 4 (M) The associated SMO responds to the host operator SMO regarding the Shared O- RU reset. Shared O-RU notifies connected O-DUs Step 5 (M) The affected Shared O-RU notifies connected O-DUs including the host O-DU, SOH and other connected O-DUs, SROs. This is a notification message originating from the Shared O-RU and sent to all connected O-DUs. Step 6 (M) Host O-DU notifes host SMO <<Uses>> Use Case Evolution / Specification Stage Related use The host O-DU notifies the host SMO with a Shared O-RU Reset Initiated message that is triggered from the reset requested by host notification sent from the Shared O-RU. Shared O-RU notifies connected O-DUs Step 7 (M) The affected Shared O-RU notifies connected O-DUs including the host O-DU, SOH and other connected O-DUs, SROs. O-DU (SRO) notifies the operator SMO Step 8 (M) The O-DU (SRO) informs its associated operator SMO that the Shared O-RU has initiated a reset. Shared O-RU notifies connected O-DUs Step 9 (M) The affected Shared O-RU notifies connected O-DUs including the host O-DU, SOH and other connected O-DUs, SROs. O-DU (SRO) notifes the operator SMO Step 10 (M) The O-DU (SRO) informs its associated operator SMO that the Shared O-RU has initiated a reset. Shared O-RU notifies connected host O-DU Step 11 (M) The affected Shared O-RU notifies the host O-DUs with a Reset Response. This is an RPC reply-acknowledgement. Host O-DU notifies the host SMO with reset executed Step 12 (M) The host O-DU informs the host operator SMO that the Shared O-RU has executed the reset with a “Shared O-RU Reset Executed” notification. Shared O-RU reset & startup Step 13 (M) The Shared O-RU resets; and then initiates its start-up sequence. Coordinated reset of Shared O-RU autonomously initiated by SRO O-DU Step 1 (M) Reset request <<Uses>> Use Case Evolution / Specification Stage Related use The SRO O-DU has determined that the target Shared O-RU needs to be reset. The SRO O-DU sends a reset request to its associated SMO. Reset request (coordination) Step 2 (M) The partner shared operator SMO sends a request to the host SMO to initiate a coordinate reset of the target Shared O-RU. Reset response (coordination) Step 3 (M) The host SMO responds to the partner shared operator SMO regarding the initiation of a coordinate reset of the target Shared O-RU. Reset request from host SMO to host O-DU (hierarchal mode) Step 4.1 (ALT) The request for the coordinated reset of the target Shared O-RU is sent from the host operator SMO to the host O-DU over the O1 interface. See NOTE 13. Reset request from host O-DU to Shared O-RU (hierarchical mode) Step 4.2 (ALT) In hierarchical mode, the coordinated reset request of the target Shared O-RU is sent from the host O-DU to the target Shared O-RU through the fronthaul as an RPC request. Reset request from host SMO to Shared O-RU (hybrid mode) Step 4.3 (ALT) In hybrid mode, the coordinated reset request of the target Shared O-RU is sent from the host SMO to target Shared O-RU as an RPC request via the M-plane. See
> NOTE 14.
Shared O-RU notifies the host O-DU Step 5 (M) The affected Shared O-RU notifies the host O-DU (hierarchical mode) or host SMO (hybrid mode). See NOTE 15, NOTE 16, NOTE 17. <<Uses>> Use Case Evolution / Specification Stage Related use Host O-DU notifies the SMO Step 6 (M) The host O-DU informs the host SMO with a “Shared O-RU reset initiated” notification. Shared O-RU notifies other connected O-DUs Step 7 (M) The target Shared O-RU notifies other connected O-DUs as SROs. This is a notification message originating from the Shared O-RU with no specific ordering. O-DU notifies associated SMO Step 8 (M) The O-DU (SRO) informs its associated SMO with a “Shared O-RU reset initiated” notification. Shared O-RU notifies other connected O-DUs Step 9 (M) The target Shared O-RU notifies other connected O-DUs as SROs. This is a notification message originating from the Shared O-RU with no specific ordering. O-DU notifies associated SMO Step 10 (M) The O-DU (SRO) informs its associated SMO with a “Shared O-RU reset initiated” notification. Shared O-RU notifies connected host O-DU Step 11 (M) The target Shared O-RU notifies the host O-DU (hierarchical mode) or host SMO (hybrid mode) with a reset response. This is an RPC reply-acknowledgement. O-DU notifies the SMO Step 12 (M) The host O-DU informs the host operator SMO that the Shared O-RU has executed the reset with a “Shared O-RU Reset Executed” notification. <<Uses>> Use Case Evolution / Specification Stage Related use Shared O-RU reset & startup Step 13 (M) The Shared O-RU resets; and then initiates its start-up sequence. The target Shared O-RU has been reset. Ends when None identified. Exceptions Success: The target Shared O-RU has been reset. Post Failure: The target Shared O-RU fails to be reset. Conditions
> NOTE 1: There are other use cases exploring operator to operator coordination and in 3GPP specifications as well.
These are the exposure of management services (SMO Services).
> NOTE 2: There might be some coordination between SMOs such that the host SMO would not initiate a coordinated
reset if the partner SMOs objected, this would be part of the SMO decomposition work. Thus, there might be other transactions happening between the SMOs before step 4.
> NOTE 3: Once the coordinate reset request is issued from the host SMO, the operation will be executed and can no
longer be rejected by the system. This implies that any OSS/SMO coordination has finalized before reaching this step.
> NOTE 4: Step 3.3 is specifically for hybrid mode configuration where the SMO could be a host and thus initiate a
coordinated reset of a Shared O-RU as an RPC request.
> NOTE 5: These set of notification messages originating from the Shared O-RU and are sent to all connected O-DUs.
> NOTE 6: The notification messages sent to all connected O-DUs in steps 4, 6, and 8 happen in an unspecified order.
> NOTE 7: In both hybrid and hierarchal mode, the Shared O-RU will inform all the connected O-DUs of a reset
requested by host notification.
> NOTE 8: Once the coordinate reset request is issued from the host SMO, the operation will be executed and can no
longer be rejected by the system. This implies that any OSS/SMO coordination has finalized before reaching this step.
> NOTE 9: Step 8.3 is specifically for hybrid mode configuration where the SMO could be a host and thus initiate a
coordinated reset of a Shared O-RU as an RPC request.
> NOTE 10: These set of notification messages originating from the Shared O-RU and are sent to all connected O-DUs.
> NOTE 11: The notification messages sent to all connected O-DUs in steps 9, 11, and 13 happen in an unspecified
order.
> NOTE 12: In both hybrid and hierarchal mode, the Shared O-RU will inform all the connected O-DUs of a reset
requested by host notification.
> NOTE 13: Once the coordinate reset request is issued from the host SMO, the operation will be executed and can no
longer be rejected by the system. This implies that any OSS/SMO coordination has finalized before reaching this step.
> NOTE 14: Step 4.3 is specifically for hybrid mode configuration where the SMO could be a host and thus initiate a
coordinated reset of a Shared O-RU as an RPC request. <<Uses>> Use Case Evolution / Specification Stage Related use
> NOTE 15: These set of notification messages originating from the Shared O-RU and are sent to all connected O-DUs.
> NOTE 16: The notification messages sent to all connected O-DUs in steps 5, 7, and 9 happen in an unspecified order.
> NOTE 17: In both hybrid and hierarchal mode, the Shared O-RU will inform all the connected O-DUs of a reset
requested by host notification. The flow diagram of the coordinated reset sub-use case 1 (personnel triggered) is given in figure 4.20.3.14-1. The flow diagram of the coordinated reset sub-use case 2 (autonomous) is given in figure 4.20.3.14-2.

#### 4.20.3.15 Management of Shared O-RU during O-DU software update sub-use case for Shared O-RU for Single & Multi-MNO
This sub-use case describes the Shared O-RU management scenarios associated with various stages in the O-DU software update such as planning, deployment, and monitoring. The detailed steps for each of these stages are described in the subsequent clauses.

##### 4.20.3.15.1 Shared O-RU management during O-DU SW change management planning
The context of the Shared O-RU management during O-DU SW change management planning is captured in table 4.20.3.15.1-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Management scenarios associated with Shared O-RU during the O-DU Goal SW change management planning.
- SMO: Maintains up-to-date information about the deployed RAN
nodes including inventory, FM and PM data that help to identify appropriate Shared O-RU resources that can be allocated for validating the O-DU SW update.
- O-DU SW planner: Personnel who prepares deployment strategy of
O-DU SW and associated plan based on the Shared O-RU Actors and resources that need to be allocated for validation. Roles
- O-DU SW change management rApp: The rApp that supports SMO
and Non-RT RIC in managing the O-DU SW update based on the plan prepared by the planner.
- Non-RT RIC: Facilitates communication between rApps and SMO
services over R1 interface.
- SW updated O-DU shares the O-RU resources with an existing O-
DU.
- SW updated O-DU and existing O-DUs address different set of
Assumptions component carriers and does not have common component carriers among them.
- SW updated O-DU is considered for single operator Shared O-RU
scenario. O-DU SW planner identifies changes in O-DU software that need to be Begins when validated and rolled out on the RAN node deployment with limited service disruption.
- O-DU SW planner received the O-DU software change
specification (for example a document detailing the changes in the O-DU software with information about impact of change and priority). Pre-conditions
- O-DU SW planner collected the information about the RAN nodes
from the SMO Topology Exposure & InVentory Management (TE&IV) service. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use
- O-DU SW planner collected the performance indicators and
health/fault details of the RAN nodes from the SMO.
- O-DU SW planner identified the KPIs, PMJobs and scaling
parameters of O-DU and Shared O-RU that need to be modified or redefined. This is to ensure that any temporary degradation during the software update does not result in false alarms or unintended actions. O-DU SW planner designs the change management plan for SW update based on the information collected from SMO services. The plan can include but not limited to a) The version of O-DU software to be used for SW update. b) The policy to select the target O-DU (e.g., least loaded cell, particular S-NSSAI, random or specific O-DU ID). c) Evacuation policies of currently occupied component carriers associated with the Shared O-RU which need to be reallocated based on the O-DU SW update. Step 1 (O) d) The traffic-distribution or component carrier allocation policy between target O-DU and existing O-DU. e) Performance and fault indicators with threshold values, monitoring schedule for the updated O-DU. f) Mitigation policy in case of a SW update failure or any disruptions. The availability of plan can be notified to the subscribed SMO services and rApps (for example O-DU SW change management rApp). See NOTE. The O-DU SW planner initiates SW update of O-DU through the O-DU SW change management rApp with reference to the change Step 2 (M) management plan prepared and made available to the O-DU SW change management rApp. O-DU SW change management rApp collects the change management Step 3 (O) plan for O-DU software update. O-DU SW change management rApp validates the change Step 4 (O) management plan. Upon successful validation, the O-DU SW change management rApp prepares the provisioning configurations for the Shared O-RU and O- Step 5 (ALT) DU (target and existing), along with the execution steps for the software update, for the designated RAN nodes. O-DU SW change management rApp notifies the O-DU SW planner Step 6 (O) about the execution steps, target RAN nodes and configuration changes. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use O-DU SW planner verifies and sends approval to the O-DU SW change Step 7 (O) management rApp. Prepares detailed execution plan which can be notified to the Step 8 (O) subscribed SMO services and rApps. If the validation of the change management plan failed, a notification is Step 9 (ALT) sent to the O-DU SW planner with the reason for failure. The change management plan for SW update is ready for execution. The Ends when execution can be auto triggered, or it can be manually initiated by the O- DU SW planner. Exceptions None. Post Conditions None.
> NOTE: It is optional to store the change management plan for SW update in SMO TE&IV. The change
management plan can be stored in alternate SMO functions registered with and authorized by SMO data management and exposure functions based on the implementation choice. The O-DU SW update change management planning sequence diagram is given in figure 4.20.3.15.1-1.

##### 4.20.3.15.2 Shared O-RU management during O-DU SW update
The context of the Shared O-RU management during O-DU SW update is captured in table 4.20.3.15.2-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal Shared O-RU management during O-DU SW update. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use
- SMO: Facilitates the execution of O-DU SW update and associated
Shared O-RU provisioning by enabling interaction across SMO services, rApps and RAN nodes – These services include but not limited to – TE&IV, OAM functions, O2 related functions.
- O-RU sharing co-ordinator retrieves change management plan for
O-DU SW update and decides on partitioning of carriers between O-DUs.
- Sharing co-ordinator uses Shared O-RU orchestration rApp to
Actors and partition resource configuration of a Shared O-RU between O-DUs. Roles
- O-DU SW change management rApp: The rApp that supports SMO
and Non-RT RIC in managing the O-DU SW update based on the plan prepared by the O-DU SW planner.
- Non-RT RIC: Facilitates communication between rApps and SMO
services over R1 interface.
- O-DU(#n): An active O-DU in the RAN being managed by the SMO.
- O-DU (updated): O-DU updated with new SW based on the change
management plan.
- SW updated O-DU shares the O-RU resources with an existing O-
DU.
- SW updated O-DU and existing O-DUs address different set of
component carriers and does not have common component carriers among them. Assumptions
- SW updated O-DU and existing O-DUs do not have common cell
IDs.
- SW update for O-DU is considered for single operator Shared O-
RU scenario. O-DU SW change management rApp receives confirmation about the Begins when O-DU SW update and Shared O-RU provisioning steps. O-DU software update and Shared O-RU provisioning steps approved Preconditions by the O-DU SW planner and made available to the O-DU SW change management rApp.
- O-DU SW change management rApp, based on the change
management plan identifies software version to be updated and recommends (via R1 interface) to SMO the specifics of change like the software version and O-DU identifier. Step 0 (Ref)
- For software update of an existing O-DU, the designated O-DU
(updated) is updated using O-RAN.WG6.ORCH-USE-CASES [26], clause 3.2.4 (steps 1 to 4) Initial provisioning of O-DU (updated) as per change management plan– Refer to O-RAN.WG10.OAM-Architecture [27], clause 4.2.1 Step 1 (M) See NOTE 1. Step 2 (M) O-DU SW change management rApp request (via R1 and SMO/Non-RT RIC) Shared O-RU orchestration rApp to facilitate resource sharing <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use between O-DU (updated) and existing O-DUs based on the change management plan. See NOTE 2. Shared O-RU orchestration r-App initiates configuration of the Shared Step 3 (M) O-RU common aspects Common aspect provisioning of Shared O-RU as per WG1 Use Cases Step 4-6 (M) Detailed Specification, clause 4.20.1.1 which include the include the security, operational, transmission, and connectivity related parameters. Based on the call home procedure, Shared O-RU establishes management session with O-DU (updated). Step 7 (M) See NOTE 3. Notification of configuration update to SMO OAM functions and subsequently to Shared O-RU orchestration rApp. Step 8-10 (O) See NOTE 4. Carrier aspect provisioning to deactivate and evacuate component Step 11-13 (O) carriers designated for the O-DU (updated) from the existing O-DU i.e., O-DU (#1). Carrier aspect provisioning to activate component carriers designated Step 14-15 (O) for the O-DU (updated). Notification of committed carrier aspect configuration to SMO OAM Step 16-18 (O) functions. Step 19-20 (O) Notification of configuration aspect to Shared O-RU orchestration rApp. Notification to sharing coordinator to validate the committed Step 21 (O) configuration. Validation of committed configuration by Shared O-RU orchestration Step 22 (O) rApp. Validation of committed configuration by O-DU SW change Step 23 (O) management rApp based on the change management plan. O-DU SW change management rApp coordinates with OAM functions to provision KPIs, PM jobs or scaling parameters used for assessing the Step 24 (O) health of the RAN nodes so that any variations anticipated due to O-DU SW update does not lead to false alarms or unintended actions. Committed configuration associated with the Shared O-RU is accepted by sharing coordinator and validation of the configuration is acknowledged by the O-DU SW change management rApp. Ends when SMO TE&IV service is updated with inventory details about the O-DU (updated) and Shared O-RU. Exceptions None. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use
- SW updated O-DU is ready for health & sanity check and is actively
Post Conditions handling UE sessions.
> NOTE 1: It is assumed that based on the O-DU (updated) provisioning procedure SMO TE&IV is updated with
the inventory information of O-DU (updated) as per change management plan.
> NOTE 2: Refer to the resource partitioning use case described in WG1 Use Cases Detailed Specification,
clause 4.20.3.2.
> NOTE 3: After O-DU (updated) deployment, before M-plane connection establishment, there is a possibility of
race condition depending on when the Shared O-RU attempts call-home and the readiness of O-DU (updated) to process the call-home requests. There are two potential scenarios and associated approaches for addressing this.
- Scenario 1: O-DU (updated) is ready for establishing M-plane connection when call home signals are
still being sent by Shared O-RU o In the O-RAN operations yang model (o-ran-operations.yang) there are two parameters that govern the call-home connection attempts – ▪ re-call-home-no-ssh-timer : A common timer used by the O-RAN equipment to trigger the repeated call-home procedure to all identified call-home servers to which the O- RAN equipment has not already an established NETCONF connection. ▪ max-call-home-attempts : counter to repeat call-home procedures. In case counter is set with value zero O-RU shall not repeat call-home procedure. In order for the deployed O-DU (updated) to be ready to receive and process call-home requests from the shared O-RU, the above parameters shall be optimized, so that adequate time is allocated for the O-DU (updated) to become operational.
- Scenario 2: O-DU (updated) becomes ready after a long-time duration and Shared O-RU is not
performing call home procedure anymore due to expiration of the timers. o In the O-RAN operations yang model (o-ran-operations.yang) restart-call-home RPC allows any active 'call home O-RU controller' having necessary permissions to instruct O-RU to re- controller’, the O-RU will initiate call home towards all known ‘call-home O-RU controllers’ that do not currently have an active M-plane session.
> NOTE 4: The steps for hybrid scenario are not shown explicitly, but it is similar to hierarchical scenario. Refer to
WG1 Use Cases Detailed Specification, clause 4.20.3.4 for details. The O-DU SW update sequence diagram is given in figure 4.20.3.15.2-1.

##### 4.20.3.15.3 Shared O-RU management during O-DU SW update monitoring and mitigation
The context of the Shared O-RU management during O-DU SW update monitoring and mitigation is captured in table 4.20.3.15.3-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Shared O-RU management during O-DU SW update monitoring and Goal mitigation. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use
- SMO: Facilitates the monitoring, and mitigation of O-DU SW update
and associated Shared O-RU provisioning by enabling interaction across SMO services, rApps and RAN nodes – These services include but not limited to – TE&IV, OAM functions, O2 related functions.
- O-DU SW planner: Personnel who prepares O-DU SW change
management strategy and associated plan based on the identified change in the O-DU software.
- O-DU SW change management rApp: The rApp that supports SMO
and Non-RT RIC in managing the O-DU SW update and associated Actors and Shared O-RU provisioning based on the plan prepared by the O- Roles DU SW planner and subsequent health monitoring to decide on mitigation actions.
- Shared O-RU orchestration rApp is used to rebalance the Shared
O-RU resources based on the health monitoring and mitigation action selection by the O-DU SW change management rApp.
- Non-RT RIC: Facilitates communication between rApps and SMO
services over R1 interface.
- O-DU(#n): An active O-DU in the RAN being managed by the SMO.
- O-DU (updated): A new O-DU deployed through SW change
management procedure.
- Software updated O-DU shares the O-RU resources with an
existing O-DU.
- Software updated O-DU and existing O-DUs address different set
of component carriers and does not have common component carriers among them. Assumptions
- Software updated O-DU and existing O-DUs do not have common
cell IDs.
- Software update of O-DU is considered for single operator Shared
O-RU scenario. O-DU SW planner subscribes to the health monitoring events for the updated RAN nodes, based on access granted by SMO external exposure service Begins when OR As per the predefined plan O-DU SW change management rApp initiates health check of the SW updated O-DU
- Successfully completed the SW update of target O-DU
- Planned Shared O-RU resources allocated to O-DU (updated) and
activated Pre-conditions
- O-DU (updated) sharing O-RU resources with an existing O-DU
- O-DU (updated), existing O-DUs, Shared O-RU are ready for
monitoring of KPIs and actively handling the UE sessions <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use O-DU SW planner subscribes to change management events from O- Step 1 (O) DU SW change management rApp via SMO/Non-RT RIC. O-DU SW change management rApp subscribes to PM/FM data from Step 2 (M) O-DU (updated) and existing O-DU, i.e O-DU (#1) through R1 interface. Step 3 (M) Non-RT RIC forwards the subscription request to OAM function. OAM function subscribes to the FM/PM data updates for O-DU Step 4 (M) (updated) and existing O-DU, i.e O-DU (#1) via O1 interface. O-DU (updated) subscribes to FM/PM data updates from Shared O-RU Step 5 (M) based on the O-DU_ID of O-DU (updated) as the filter criteria. Notification of FM/PM data from Shared O-RU to O-DU (updated) over Step 6 (M) OFH. Notification of FM/PM data from O-DU (updated) to OAM functions over Step 7 (M) O1. OAM function forwards notification of FM/PM data received from O-DU Step 8 (M) (updated) to Non-RT RIC through SMO internal interface. Non-RT RIC notifies O-DU SW change management rApp about Step 9 (M) FM/PM data received from O-DU (updated). O-DU SW change management rApp evaluates FM/PM data against Step 10 (M) the change management plan. If the health and sanity of the O-DU (updated) and Shared O-RU are not Step 11 (O) as per plan, O-DU SW change management rApp analyses mitigation action based on evaluation of the FM/PM data. If the health and sanity of the O-DU (updated) is not as per plan O-DU SW change management rApp sends change management report consisting of sanity, health details and mitigation action(s) to O-DU SW Step 12 (O) planner. See NOTE 1. O-DU SW planner verifies the mitigation action and sends approval if Step 13 (O) action is within the scope of the plan. If mitigation involves provisioning of Shared O-RU, O-DU SW change management rApp recommends to Shared O-RU orchestration rApp re- Step 14 (O) provisioning of O-RU resources based on recommended action. See NOTE 2. Shared O-RU orchestration rApp recommends re-configuration to OAM Step 15 (O) functions over R1 interface. Step 16 (O) Non-RT RIC forwards configuration request to OAM functions. OAM functions initiates configuration of O-DU (updated) and partitioned Step 17 (O) carrier information. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use O-DU (updated) initiates reconfiguration of partitioned carrier Step 18 (O) information on Shared O-RU. This can include required evacuation procedures if applicable. OAM functions initiates configuration of O-DU (#n) and partitioned Step 19 (O) carrier information on the O-RU shared with O-DU (updated). O-DU (#n) initiates reconfiguration of partitioned carrier information on Step 20 (O) Shared O-RU. O-DU (#n) sends notification about configuration update to OAM Step 21 (O) functions over O1 interface O-DU (updated) sends notification about configuration update to OAM Step 22 (O) functions over O1 interface. O-DU SW change management rApp sends revised report to O-DU SW Step 23 (O) planner. to O-DU SW planner validates the change management report and certifies the O-DU SW update. Ends when SMO TE&IV service is updated with inventory details about the O-DU (updated) and Shared O-RU. Exceptions NA SW updated O-DU is functioning as per the change management plan. Post Conditions
> NOTE 1: Sanity check and health check are assumed to be implementation specific and depends on the pre-
defined change management plan for O-DU SW update. In general, the sanity check assesses whether the SW update satisfies the designated performance and connectivity objectives, while also ensuring compliance with the policies established in accordance with the plan. On the other hand, the health check examines the responsiveness and overall condition of the updated O-DU.
> NOTE 2: The mitigation action depends on the change management plan and specific implementation strategy.
This can include but not limited to readjustment of component carriers in Shared O-RU between O-DU (updated) and other O-DUs. The O-DU SW update monitoring and mitigation sequence diagram is given in figure 4.20.3.15.3-1.

#### 4.20.3.16 Resource partitioning use case of Shared O-RU for Multi-MNO configuration
The following describes the solution for the resource partitioning sub-use case for a Shared O-RU in a Multi-MNO configuration. The context of the resource partitioning use case of Shared O-RU is captured in table 4.20.3.16-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal rApp has details on how a Shared O-RU’s resource are to be partitioned. Owning operator Service Management & Orchestration (SMO) provides inventory details of Shared O-RU and O-DUs. Owning operator sharing coordinator recovers inventory and decides on Actors and Roles partitioning of carriers between O-DUs. Owning operator sharing coordinator uses resource partitioning rApp to partition resource configuration of a Shared O-RU between O-DUs. All relevant functions and components are instantiated. Assumptions Inventory management systems identify Shared O-RU carrier capabilities and available O-DUs. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Owning operator sharing coordinator decides to share an O-RU between Begins when multiple O-DUs. Pre-conditions Inventory system is up to date. Owning operator sharing coordinator recovers O-RU and O-DU inventory and Step 1 (M) decides on resource partitioning. Owning operator sharing coordinator resource partitioning rApp to partition Step 2 (M) shared O-RU between multiple O-DUs. rApp signals O-DU identity(ies) to owning operator configuration management Step 3 (M) system. Owning operator configuration management system configures transport O-RAN.WG4.MP Step 4 (M) systems with call home identity(ies) for O-DU(s). [28], clause 6.2.5 Participating operator sharing coordinator recovers O-RU and O-DU inventory Step 5 (M) and decides on resource partitioning. Participating operator sharing coordinator resource partitioning rApp to partition Step 6 (M) Shared O-RU between multiple O-DUs. rApp signals O-DU identity(ies) to participating operator configuration Step 7 (M) management system. Participating operator configuration management system configures transport O-RAN.WG4.MP Step 8 (M) systems with call home identity(ies) for O-DU(s). [28], clause 6.2.5 Owning operator rApp has details on how shared O-RU’s resource are to be Ends when partitioned. Exceptions None identified. Post Conditions None identified. The flow diagram of the resource partitioning use case for Multi-MNO configuration is given in figure 4.20.3.16-1.

#### 4.20.3.17 Start-up use case of Shared O-RU for Multi-MNO configuration
The following describes the solution for the start-up sub-use case for a Shared O-RU for Multi-MNO configuration. The context of the Shared O-RU start-up use case is captured in table 4.20.3.17-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use The Shared O-RU is operating with the necessary software version and Goal has established network connectivity with the O-DU(s) and, for hybrid deployments, the SMO. Shared O-RU calls home and establishes network management session. Owning operator SMO is responsible for software management for the Shared O-RU when operating in hybrid management mode. O-DU is responsible for software management for the Shared O-RU Actors and when operating in hierarchical management mode. Roles Participating operator SMO handles communication to its connected O- DU. RAN NF OAM SMO services – provides RAN NF OAM related services for FCAPS and LCM type functions. Assumptions None. Begins when Shared O-RU powers on. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Transport systems (DHCP server) has been configured with call home Preconditions configuration information. Establish synchronization: Step 1 (M) Each O-DU and Shared O-RU establish synchronisation with a timing source, for example PTP (IEEE 1588) or Sync-E. See NOTE 1, NOTE 2. Synchronization state change notification: After the O-RU has a synchronisation source, all subscribed O-DU(s) are notified through a synchronisation state change notification. We expect the O-RU to be in the sync state “LOCKED”. The synchronisation state change notification goes from Shared O-RU to Step 2 (M) all subscribed O-DU(s). It is possible that the synchronisation procedure can happen in parallel to the other steps of the start-up sub-use case. Thus, many of the other steps in this use case can happen as the synchronization procedure occurs. Even though this is shown as “step 2” this can complete after other steps. [Shared O-RU operated in hybrid management mode] O-RAN.WG4.MP [28], clause 6.3 Step 3 (ALT) Shared O-RU establishes a network management session with owning and/or clause operator SMO. 6.9.2 [Shared O-RU operated in hierarchical management mode] Step 4 Shared O-RU calls home and triggers establishment of network [28], clause 6.3 management session with owning operator O-DU#1. [Shared O-RU operated in hybrid management mode] Step 5 (ALT) Shared O-RU establishes network management session with [28], clause 8.4 participating operator SMO. [Shared O-RU operated in hierarchical management mode] Step 6 Shared O-RU calls home and triggers establishment of network [28], clause 6.3 management session with participating operator O-DU#2. [Shared O-RU operated in hybrid management mode] Step 7 SMO recovers software inventory request from Shared O-RU. [Shared O-RU operated in hybrid management mode] Step 8 SMO recovers software inventory response from Shared O-RU. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use [Shared O-RU operated in hybrid management mode and software update required] O-RAN.WG4.MP Step 9 (O) [28], clause 8.5 SMO triggers download of new software. [Shared O-RU operated in hybrid management mode and software update required] O-RAN.WG4.MP Step 10 (O) [28], clause 8.5 O-RU downloads software files. [Shared O-RU operated in hybrid management mode and software update required] O-RAN.WG4.MP Step 11 (O) [28], clause 8.6 SMO triggers the installation of the software. [Shared O-RU operated in hybrid management mode and software update required] O-RAN.WG4.MP Step 12 (O) [28], clause 8.7.2 SMO triggers the activation of the software. [Shared O-RU operated in hybrid management mode and software update required] SMO brings active software into operation. O-RAN.WG4.MP Step 13 (O) [28], clause 8.7.3

# A O-RU reset is required to take the activated software into operation.
[Shared O-RU operated in hierarchical management mode] Step 14 (ALT) [28], clause 8.4 Owning operator O-DU#1 recovers software inventory request. [Shared O-RU operated in hierarchical management mode] Step 15 [28], clause 8.4 Owning operator O-DU#1 recovers software inventory response. [Shared O-RU operated in hierarchical management mode and software update required] O-RAN.WG4.MP Step 16 (O) [28], clause 8.5 Owning operator O-DU#1 triggers download of new software. [Shared O-RU operated in hierarchical management mode and software update required] O-RAN.WG4.MP Step 17 (O) [28], clause 8.5 O-RU downloads software files. [Shared O-RU operated in hierarchical management mode and software update required] O-RAN.WG4.MP Step 18 (O) [28], clause 8.6 Owning operator O-DU#1 triggers the installation of the software. [Shared O-RU operated in hierarchical management mode and software update required] O-RAN.WG4.MP Step 18 (O) [28], clause 8.7 Owning operator O-DU#1 triggers activation of the software. [Shared O-RU operated in hierarchical management mode and software update required] O-RAN.WG4.MP Step 19 (O) [28], clause 8.7 Owning operator O-DU#1 brings active software into operation. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use The Shared O-RU is operating with the necessary software version and Ends when has established network connectivity with the O-DU and, for hybrid deployments, the owning operator SMO. Exceptions None identified. Post Conditions None identified.
> NOTE 1: It is expected the O-RU and all O-DUs connected it would share the same synchronisation source
otherwise, the O-DUs will drift in timing.
> NOTE 2: For more details on O-RU sync and O-RU loss of sync, see O-RAN.WG4.MP [28], clause 15.3.3.
The flow diagram of the Shared O-RU start-up use case is given in figure 4.20.3.17-1 for Multi-MNO.

#### 4.20.3.18 Supervision sub-use case of a Shared O-RU for Multi-MNO configuration
The following describes the solution for the supervision sub-use case for a Shared O-RU for a Multi-MNO configuration. The context of the supervision use case of a Shared O-RU is captured in table 4.20.3.18-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use The Shared O-RU operates watchdog timers with each of its O-DUs and Goal ceases transmitting on a partitioned carrier associated with an O-DU if is watchdog timer to that O-DU expires. Shared O-RU operates watchdog timers and deactivates any carriers associated with an expired watchdog timer. Actors and Roles O-DU repeatedly resets the Shared O-RU’s supervision timer. SMO forwards any alarms to Shared O-RU rApp. O-DUs are operating fronthaul control and user plane for their respective partitioned carriers. Assumptions SMO has subscribed to receive alarm notifications (hybrid management model). Begins when An O-DU subscribes to receive supervision notifications. Step 1 (Loop) O-DU#1 initiates supervision operations. Step 2 (Loop) O-RU response from supervision operations. O-DU#1 detects that it has lost communication sessions to the Shared Step 3 (O) O-RU. It raises a communication alarm to the owning operator SMO. Cease transmission – Shared O-RU detects supervision failure with O- Step 4 (O) DU#1 and ceases transmitting on partitioned carrier associated with O- DU of the owning operator RAN network. Shared O-RU sends alarm notification to owning operator fault Step 5 (O) management in SMO. Owning operator fault management sends alarm notification to owning Step 6 (O) operator Non-RT RIC. Owning operator Non-RT RIC sends alarm notification to owning operator Step 7 (O) Shared O-RU orchestration rApp. Step 8 (Loop) O-DU#2 initiates supervision operations. Step 9 (Loop) O-RU response from supervision operations. O-DU#2 detects that it has lost communication sessions to the Shared Step 10 (O) O-RU. It raises a communication alarm to the owning operator SMO. Cease transmission – Shared O-RU detects supervision failure with O- Step 11 (O) DU#2 and ceases transmitting on partitioned carrier associated with O- DU from the participating operator RAN network. Shared O-RU sends alarm notification to the participating operator fault Step 12 (O) management. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Participating operator fault management sends alarm notification to Step 13 (O) participating operator Non-RT RIC. Participating operator Non-RT RIC sends alarm notification to Step 14 (O) participating operator Shared O-RU orchestration rApp. Ends when O-DU terminates subscription to supervision notification. Exceptions None identified. Post Conditions None identified. The flow diagram of the Shared O-RU supervision use case is given in figure 4.20.3.18-1 for Multi-MNO.

#### 4.20.3.19 Antenna Line device (ALD) control sub-use case of a Shared O-RU for Multi- MNO configuration
The following describes the solution for the ALD control sub-use case for a Shared O-RU for Multi-MNO configuration. The context of the antenna line device control use case of a Shared O-RU is captured in table 4.20.3.19-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use The ALD connected to Shared O-RU is configured to operate with ALD Goal controller. Owning operator rApp is responsible for determining which O-DU is responsible for ALD oontroller aspects. Actors and O-DU is responsible for implementing ALD oontroller. Roles O-RU is responsible for bridging between OFH and HDLC. ALD is responsible for terminating HDLC. Assumptions None. Shared O-RU has started up and has been configured with correct Begins when software version. Pre-conditions None. Owning operator rApp determines which O-DU is responsible for Step 1 (M) performing ALD controller functionality. Owning operator rApp triggers the configuration of the ALD controller for Step 2 (M) Shared O-RU. Owning operator Non-RT RIC triggers the configuration of ALD controller Step 3 (M) for Shared O-RU. Owning operator SMO uses O1 interface to configure ALD controller in Step 4 (M) O-DU. O-DU uses open fronthaul interface to configure ALD aspects of Shared O-RAN.WG4.MP Step 5 (M) O-RU. [28], clause 9 Participating operator rApp triggers the configuration of the ALD controller Step 6 (M) for Shared O-RU. Participating operator Non-RT RIC triggers the configuration of ALD Step 7 (M) controller for Shared O-RU. O-DU uses open fronthaul interface to signal ALD request. O-RAN.WG4.MP Step 8 (M) [28], clause 14.4 O-DU uses open fronthaul interface to signal ALD response. O-RAN.WG4.MP Step 9 (M) [28], clause 14.4 Shared O-RU provides interworking between OFH and HDLC request. O-RAN.WG4.MP Step 10 (M) [28], clause 14.4 Shared O-RU provides interworking between OFH and HDLC response. O-RAN.WG4.MP Step 11 (M) [28], clause 14.4 Ends when ALD connected to Shared O-RU is configured correctly. Exceptions None identified. Post Conditions None identified. The flow diagram of the antenna line device sub-use case is given in figure 4.20.3.19-1.

#### 4.20.3.20 Antenna calibration use case of a Shared O-RU for Multi-MNO configuration
(deferred) The following will describe the solution for the antenna calibration sub-use case for a Shared O-RU.

#### 4.20.3.21 Rehoming use case of a Shared O-RU for Multi-MNO
The following describes the solution for the rehoming sub-use case for a Shared O-RU in a Multi-MNO configuration. The step-by-step details of the rehoming use case of a Shared O-RU is in table 4.20.3.21-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use

# A Shared O-RU is rehomed and is able to pair with new O-DU or existing
Goal (previous) O-DU parents in a Multi-MNO setting. Shared O-RU is the element that is rehomed. Actors and Host O-DU (old) is the original Shared O-RU parent. Roles SRO O-DU (old) is another original O-DU Shared O-RU is connected to. This is owned by the participating operator. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Host O-DU (new) is the new Shared O-RU parent. SRO O-DU (new) is another new O-DU Shared O-RU is connected to. This is owned by the participating operator. SMO can receive results from calibration. The Shared O-RU is in a deployment with the original (old) O-DUs and will be moved to the new ones or stays with the original O-DUs Assumptions (Typically) the operator will plan a Shared O-RU move before they actually perform the operations related to the move. This use case starts with any of these three situations: Case #1 starts when the Shared O-RU is physically moved to a new location (however still connected to original O-DUs). Begins when Case #2 starts when the Shared O-RU is physically moved to a new location but is connected to new O-DUs. Case #3 starts when the Shared O-RU stays in same physical location but is connected to new O-DUs (management-initiated rehoming). Case #1 – O-RU is physically moved with same O-DU parents Shared O-RU is disconnected from original O-DUs Step 1 (M) The Shared O-RU is physically disconnected (fiber disconnected) from the existing O-DU parents. Then, the Shared O-RU is physically moved to a new location. Shared O-RU is reconnected to original O-DUs The Shared O-RU is either physically reconnected (different fiber) or connected at the transport layer (with the original fiber) to reconnected to the original O-DU parents, and the following sub-use cases are triggered as a result: Step 2 (M)
- Shared O-RU startup sub-use case for Multi-MNO configuration
- Configuration sub-use case
- Resource partitioning sub-use case for Multi-MNO configuration
- Coordinated reset sub-use case for Multi-MNO configuration
- Supervision sub-use case for Multi-MNO configuration
CASE #2 – O-RU is physically moved with new O-DU parents Shared O-RU is disconnected from original O-DUs Step 1 (M) <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use The Shared O-RU is physically disconnected (fiber disconnected) from the former O-DU parents. Then, the Shared O-RU is physically moved to a new location. Shared O-RU is connected to new O-DUs The Shared O-RU is either physically reconnected (different fiber) or connected at the transport layer (with the original fiber) to new O-DU parents, and the following sub-use cases are triggered as a result: Step 2 (M) • Shared O-RU startup sub-use case for Multi-MNO configuration
- Configuration sub-use case
- Resource partitioning sub-use case for Multi-MNO configuration
- Coordinated reset sub-use case for Multi-MNO configuration
- Supervision sub-use case for Multi-MNO configuration
Case #3 – Management initiated rehoming Management initiated rehoming for Shared O-RU Shared O-RU already has physical front-haul connections in place. Step 1 (M) Main operator SMO Initiates rehoming operation with O-DUs connected to the Shared O-RU. Participating operator SMO initiates rehoming operation with O-DUs connected to the Shared O-RU. Shared O-RU starts up The Shared O-RU starts up with the new O-DU parents, and the following sub-use cases are triggered as a result:
- Shared O-RU startup sub-use case for Multi-MNO configuration
Step 2 (M)
- Configuration sub-use case
- Resource partitioning sub-use case for Multi-MNO configuration
- Coordinated reset sub-use case for Multi-MNO configuration
- Supervision sub-use case for Multi-MNO configuration
The Shared O-RU has been moved and connected to the appropriate O- Ends when DUs, and is operational again. Exceptions None. Post Conditions None. The flow diagram of the rehoming use case of a Shared O-RU for Multi-MNO is given in figure 4.20.3.21-1.

#### 4.20.3.22 Performance management use case of a Shared O-RU for Multi-MNO
The following describes the solution for the performance management sub-use case for a Shared O-RU in a Multi-MNO configuration. The context of the performance management sub-use case of a Shared O-RU in a Multi-MNO configuration is captured in table 4.20.3.22-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Each O-DU has established subscriptions to receive performance management notifications regarding operation of the fronthaul between the O-DUs and shared O-RU. Goal The O-DU and Shared O-RU are able to report performance measurement data towards their consumers in a Multi-MNO configuration. Shared O-RU generates performance management notifications on a per partitioned carrier basis Actors and Roles O-DU subscribes to receive performance management notifications from Shared O-RU. O-DU has configured performance management metrics for respective Assumptions partitioned carrier. Fronthaul control and user plane is operational between O-DU and Begins when Shared O-RU. Step 1 (M) O-DU#1 subscribes to receive PM notifications from Shared O-RU. Step 2 (M) O-DU#2 subscribes to receive PM notifications from Shared O-RU. Step 3 (loop) Shared O-RU sends PM notification to O-DU#1. Step 4 (loop) Shared O-RU sends PM notification to O-DU#2. O-DU to SMO performance operations PM event notification reporting Step 1 (O) The O-DU (producer) sends performance data to the SMO (consumer) through an event notification. Streaming PM reports Step 2 (O) The O-DU establishes a persistent connection to the SMO and sends performance data. Attribute-based or URI-based collection Step 3 (O) <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Performance data is read by the consumer (SMO) through configuration management attribute. Alternatively, the O-DU can support a data scraping method where a collector (SMO) reads the data from a pre- defined URI. Producer or PM file upload (file upload) Step 4 (O) O-DU uploads a PM file to the SMO. See NOTE 1. Consumer downloads PM file (file download) Step 5 (O) O-DU issues file ready notification to SMO about the data being ready for download, or SMO periodically polls the O-DU. Afterwards, the SMO (consumer) can download the PM file. O-RU to O-DU performance operations (in hierarchical configuration) PM event notification reporting Step 1 (O) The O-RU sends performance data to the O-DU through an event notification. The notification is sent to a subscriber of performance data. O-DU requests for O-RU to start sending PM data O-DU invokes an RPC to give PM credentials, target URI, and periodicity Step 2 (O) notification interval to the Shared O-RU. This includes all the necessary information for the O-RU to perform a file transfer to an endpoint. See NOTE 2. Shared O-RU uploads PM file Step 3 (O) The Shared O-RU periodically uploads a performance to the target URI using the PM credentials given by the O-DU. O-RU to SMO performance operations (in hybrid configuration) PM event notification reporting Step 1 (O) The O-RU sends performance data to the SMO through an event notification via M-plane. The notification is sent to a subscriber of performance data. Step 2 (O) SMO requests for O-RU to start sending PM data <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use SMO invokes an RPC to give PM credentials, target URI, and periodicity notification interval to the Shared O-RU. This includes all the necessary information for the O-RU to perform a file transfer to a endpoint. Shared O-RU uploads PM file Step 3 (O) The Shared O-RU uploads performance file to target URI using PM credentials given by the SMO. (1) Subscription setup: O-DU terminates subscription to performance management notification. (2) O-DU to SMO sending PM data: Use case ends with the producer (O- Ends when DU) sending performance data to the consumer (SMO). (3) O-RU sending performance data: Use case ends with the producer (O-RU) starting to send performance data to the subscriber. Exceptions None identified. The consumer has received performance data and may perform post Post Conditions processing operations on the data.
> NOTE 1: When the O-DU sends performance files received from a Shared O-RU, they are converted to the proper
3GPP format before sending to SMO. See O-RAN WG5.O-DU-O1 [25].
> NOTE 2: The O-DU establishes a framework for the Shared O-RU to send PM files. This operation is performed
only once, thereafter, the Shared O-RU sends the PM files periodically. The flow diagram of the performance management sub-use case of a Shared O-RU in a Multi-MNO is given in figure 4.20.3.22-1.

#### 4.20.3.23 Antenna calibration use case of a Shared O-RU for Multi-MNO
The following describes the solution for the antenna calibration sub-use case for a Shared O-RU in a Multi-MNO configuration. The step-by-step details of the antenna calibration use case of a Shared O-RU are captured in table 4.20.3.23-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use The host O-DU performs an antenna calibration procedure with the shared O-RU in a Multi-MNO configuration. Goal The owning operator O-DU reports antenna calibration results to the SMO. Shared O-RU performs the antenna calibration procedure. Owning operator O-DU (host) that requests for antenna calibration procedure with Shared O-RU. Actors and Roles Participating operator O-DU is owned by the participating operator. Owning operator SMO can receive results from calibration. Participating operator SMO can also receive results from calibration. All O-DUs have connectivity to O-RU. All actors are operational and have initialized. Assumptions Fronthaul control and user plane is operational between all O-DUs and Shared O-RU. 1. The Shared O-RU has detected that antenna calibration is required. Begins when 2. The Owning operator O-DU initiates an antenna calibration procedure. Recalibration required (O-RU initiated) Step 1.1 (O) The Shared O-RU has detected that antenna calibration is needed and sends an antenna calibration needed notification to the owning operator host O-DU over the open FH. In this case, the O-RU initiates the calibration procedure. Calibration request Step 1.2 (O) The host O-DU of the owning operator requests for antenna calibration procedure to start for Shared O-RU. Host O-DU informs SMO Step 1.1 (M) <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use The owning operator SMO together with host O-DU (owning operator) informs that an antenna calibration operation is needed. SMO to SMO negotiation Step 1.2 (M) Through exposure of management services, the owning operator SMO negotiates with the participating operator SMO that the host O-DU would like to perform an antenna calibration operation. Here, the participating operator SMO may object to the antenna calibration operation. Host O-DU initiates antenna calibration Step 1.3 (O) If agreed to proceed, owning operator SMO together with host O-DU (owning operator) initiates an antenna calibration operation. SMO informs participating operator O-DU Step 1.4 (M) The participating operator SMO informs its O-DU that the antenna calibration operation will be initiated by the owning operator (host) O-DU. Calibration request (O-DU initiated) Step 1.5 (M) The host O-DU of the owning operator requests for antenna calibration procedure to start for Shared O-RU. In this case the O-DU initiates the calibration procedure. Calibration operation at O-RU Step 2 (M) Shared O-RU performs antenna calibration procedure. Calibration response Step 3 (M) The Shared O-RU responds with antenna calibration results to the owning operator O-DU. Calibration results Step 4 (M) The owning operator O-DU returns antenna calibration results to owning operator SMO. Calibration results to O-DU #2 Step 5 (M) Shared O-RU notifies the participating operator O-DU with antenna calibration results. Step 6 (M) Calibration results <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use The participating operator O-DU returns antenna calibration results to the participating operator SMO. (1) Antenna calibrated: Antenna calibration procedure has finished, and Ends when results reported. The O-RU may indicate a calibration failure, which is reported to the Exceptions owning operator O-DU. The O-DU logs the failure and notifies north- bound entities. Post Conditions None. The flow diagram of the antenna calibration use case of a Shared O-RU for Multi-MNO is given in figure 4.20.3.23-1.

#### 4.20.3.24 Dynamic resource shifting use case of a Shared O-RU
The following will describe the solution for dynamic resource shifting sub-use case for a Shared O-RU. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Cooperating O-DUs serve cells overlapping spectrum in a way, so that frequency resources effectively used by each O-DU can be dynamically Goal shifted between O-DUs and interference is avoided at air interface. There is no impact to regular procedures performed between O-DUs and UEs and UE energy consumption is not increased. Shared O-RU serves radio functions to the air. O-DU performs radio resource handling. Actors and Roles SMO configures other actors. Near-RT RIC coordinates dynamic shifting of spectrum resources between O-DUs. O-RU is configured to serve for 2 or more O-DUs. O-DUs are configured respectively – including dedicated set of bandwidth parts in UL and DL alike. Assumptions Near-RT RIC knows how bandwidth parts are configured to O-DUs. Near-RT RIC is receiving traffic-related statistics from O-DUs. Near-RT RIC is provided with traffic shaping policy for cells that use overlapping spectrum. Near-RT RIC decides to change bandwidth effectively used by cells Begins when served by O-DUs. Near-RT RIC provides O-DUs with updated lists of bandwidth parts O- Step 1 (M) DUs are allowed to utilize. O-DUs respectively confirm reception of updated list of permitted Step 2 (M) bandwidth parts to Near-RT RIC. O-DUs use actual list of permitted bandwidth parts for scheduling in Step 3 (loop) downlink and uplink respectively. Ends when Update of list of permitted bandwidth parts confirmed to Near-RT RIC. It is feasible that list of permitted bandwidth parts is updated to some (not Exceptions all) of cooperating O-DUs. Lists of permitted bandwidth parts are successfully updated for desired Post Conditions O-DUs. The flow diagram of the dynamic resource shifting sub-use case for Shared O-RU is given in figure 4.20.3.24-1.

#### 4.20.3.25 Static resource shifting use case for Single-MNO
The following will describe the solution for static resource shifting sub-use case for a Shared O-RU. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Cooperating O-DUs serve cells using a designated chunk of spectrum at a time, allowing carrier frequency resources to be effectively reallocated between O-DUs and ensuring interference is avoided at the air interface. Goal This is a service impacting use case. Actors: Actors and Roles Shared O-RU <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use O-DUs O-CU SMO Roles: Please refer to 4.20.2.25. Initiation
- O-RU is configured to have connectivity with 2 or more O-DUs.
- O-DUs are configured respectively for connectivity with Shared O-
RU.
- Fronthaul M-plane (Netconf session) sessions are established
between Shared O-RU and O-DUs as per provided configurations. Assumptions
- SMO knows the capabilities of O-DUs.
- SMO is receiving traffic-related statistics from O-DUs.
- SMO manages the entire process and ensures coordination between
O-DUs.
- SMO configures the initial roles and resources for O-DUs and O-RU.
Collection of counters O-DUs report PM counters to SMO (Non-RT RIC). PM counters are used by SMO as trigger to decide if static resource shifting shall be applied. Static resource shifting Deactivation and removal of cell(s) and carrier(s) associated with O-DU#1 SMO decides to start static resource shifting for specific cell(s) served by Begins when O-DUs through Shared O-RU. Step 1 (M) SMO requests O-CU to deactivate cell(s) served by O-DU#1. O-CU informs O-DU#1 about the cell(s) to be deactivated via F1 Step 2 (M) interface. O-DU#1 maps mentioned above cell(s) with corresponding carrier(s) that Step 3 (M) need to be deactivated on Shared O-RU. For carriers determined in Step 3, O-DU#1 performs carrier deactivation Step 4 (M) with O-RU. Once O-DU#1 knows that relevant carriers(s) are deactivated, it replies Step 5 (M) to O-CU’s request for cell deactivation received in Step 2. Step 6 (M) O-CU replies to SMO’s request for cell deactivation received in Step 1. Hierarchical deployment – Cell(s) and carrier(s) removal Step 7.1 (M) <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use SMO requests O-DU#1 to remove specific inactive cell(s) and related carrier(s) from configuration. O-DU#1 maps requested cell(s) with carrier(s) that needs to be removed Step 7.2 (M) from O-RU’s configuration. Step 7.3 (M) O-DU#1 informs O-CU about cell(s) being subject of removal. O-DU#1 performs config update scenario to O-RU to remove Step 7.4 (M) configuration related to carrier(s) determined in Step 7.2. Step 7.5 (M) O-DU#1 responds to SMO’s request for cell removal received in Step 7.1. Hybrid deployment – Cell(s) and carrier(s) removal Step 8.1 (M) SMO requests O-RU to remove specific carriers. Step 8.2 (M) O-RU notifies O-DU that specific carriers have been removed. Step 8.3 (M) O-DU#1 performs carrier-to-cell mapping. Step 8.4 (M) O-DU#1 informs SMO about change in resource availability. For cells that have lost their related carriers completely O-DU#1 informs Step 8.5 (M) O-CU about cells are no longer operational. Step 8.6 (M) O-RU responds to SMO’s request for carrier(s) removal. Step 8.7 (M) SMO requests O-DU#1 to remove affected cells. Step 8.8 (M) O-DU#1 responds to SMO’s request. Configuration of cell(s) and carrier(s) associated with O-DU#2 Hierarchical deployment – Cell(s) and carrier(s) configuration Step 9.1 (M) SMO configures the cell(s) and related carriers to O-DU#2. Based on provided configuration O-DU#2 maps the cell(s) with related Step 9.2 (M) carrier(s) that needs to be configured to O-RU. O-DU#2 provides O-RU with configuration for carrier(s) known from Step Step 9.3 (M) 9.1. For cells having their related carriers configured to O-DU, the O-DU#2 Step 9.4 (M) informs O-CU about cell(s) being ready to be used. For configured cells requested in Step 9.1 the O-DU#2 sends cell(s) Step 9.5 (M) configuration notification to SMO. Hybrid deployment – Cell(s) and carrier(s) removal Step 10.1 (M) SMO requests O-RU to configure carrier(s). <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Step 10.2 (M) O-RU sends carrier(s) configuration change notification to O-DU#2. Step 10.3 (M) O-RU sends carrier(s) configuration change notification to SMO. SMO requests O-DU#2 to configure cell(s) and informs O-DU#2 about Step 10.4 (M) mapping between cells and carriers. For cells with properly mapped carriers the O-DU#2 informs O-CU about Step 10.5 (M) cell(s) that are available and ready for activation. Step 10.6 (M) O-DU#2 to SMO’s request provided in Step 10.4. Step 11 (M) SMO requests O-CU to activate specific cells. Step 12 (M) O-CU requests O-DU#2 to activate specific cell(s) mentioned in Step 11. O-DU#2 maps requested cell(s) with carrier(s) that needs to be activated Step 13 (M) to O-RU. Step 14 (M) O-DU#2 requests O-RU to activate carriers determined in Step 13. Step 15 (M) O-RU responds to O-DU#2 with carrier(s) activation notification. Step 16 (M) O-DU#2 responds to O-CU with cell(s) activation response. Step 17 (M) O-CU responds to SMO with cell(s) activated notification. Shifting of cell(s) and associated carrier(s) from O-DU#1 to O-DU#2 is Ends when accomplished. Exceptions Error at any of listed steps. Frequency resources are used by cells and related carriers handled by Post Conditions O-DU#2. The flow diagram of the static resource shifting sub-use case for Shared O-RU is given in figure 4.20.3.25-1.

### 4.20.4 Required data

#### 4.20.4.1 Required data for all Shared O-RU use cases
The following required data is relevant to the following sub-use cases: resource partitioning, start-up, configuration, supervision, performance management, ALD control, antenna calibration, rehoming, and shutdown:
- Inventory system maintains inventory data for the Shared O-RUs because it needs to be able to identify Shared
O-RUs.
- The resource partitioning rApp maintains carrier resource information because it needs to be able to partition the
Shared O-RU carrier resources between different O-DU nodes.
- In hierarchical management mode, the configuration rApp maintains the active/standby state & status for O-DUs
because needs to determine which O-DU is responsible for configuring the common aspects of a Shared O-RU.
- The supervision needs to include the O-DU identity because the Shared O-RU needs to be able to support
supervision on a per O-DU basis.
- Alarm data needs to be kept at the Shared O-RU because the Shared O-RU needs to be able to terminate
transmissions associated with an O-DU when it loses supervision with that O-DU and to continue to operate with other O-DUs. There will be a history of alarm data.
- Shared O-RU measurement counters and KPIs (as defined by O-RAN.WG4.MP [28]) shall be available on a per
O-DU basis.
- O-DU needs to include its O-DU identity to enable supervision operation on a per O-DU basis.
- The ALD control rApp maintains data to keep track which O-DU is responsible for ALD controller functionality
because it needs to be able to select which O-DU is responsible for ALD controller functionality.

#### 4.20.4.2 Required data for Single-MNO configurations
The following data applies for single operator configurations when used by the other Shared O-RU sub-use cases:
- Non-RT RIC needs to be able to partition the Shared O-RU carriers between O-DU nodes operated by the same
MNO.

#### 4.20.4.3 Required data for Multi-MNO configurations
The following data applies for multi-operator configurations when used by the other Shared O-RU sub-use cases:
- The resource partitioning rApp needs to be able to partition the Shared O-RU carrier resources between different
O-DU nodes of different MNOs.
- Shared O-RU needs to be able to associate management accounts with an MNO.
- The Shared O-RU needs to be able to implement role-based access control on a per-MNO basis.
- The Shared O-RU needs to associate carrier resources with MNOs.
- Measurement counters and KPIs (as defined by O-RAN WG4) need to be available on a per MNO basis.
- Tenant SMO needs to be able to support common Shared O-RU configuration defined by host operator.

#### 4.20.4.4 Required data for resiliency use cases
The following data is used by the resiliency use case:
- The supervision needs to include the O-DU identity because the Shared O-RU needs to be able to support
supervision on a per O-DU basis.
- Alarm data needs to be kept at the Shared O-RU because the Shared O-RU needs to be able to terminate
transmissions associated with an O-DU when it loses supervision with that O-DU and to continue to operate with other O-DUs. There will be a history of alarm data.
- The configuration data from the active O-DU is passed to the standby O-DU.
- The configuration information of carriers of the standby O-DU are configured for the O-RU.
- The management system has the state & status data regarding which O-DU is and shall be active.
- The management system has the state & status data regarding which O-DUs are and shall be standby.
- The management system has the alarm history and alarm information for the Shared O-RU.
> NOTE: There are many different situations and variations of the resiliency sub-use cases. Some of them need not require
all the above data.

#### 4.20.4.5 Required data for Shared O-RU management during O-DU SW update sub-use
case for Shared O-RU The following data is used by SW update of O-DU and associated Shared O-RU provisioning:
- The configuration data for provisioning the SW updated O-DU based on the change management plan for
SW update.
- The configuration information of carriers of the SW updated O-DU configured on the Shared O-RU.
- The management system has state and status details of O-DUs to identify the right candidate to be used for
SW update.
- The management system has state and status details of SW updated O-DU to verify the status and health of
the SW update.
- The management system has the alarm history and alarm data of the Shared O-RU to verify functionality
and sanity of the SW updated O-DU.
- Non-RT RIC needs to be able to partition the Shared O-RU carriers between SW updated O-DU and other
O-DU nodes operated by the same MNO.
- Alarm data and performance data needs to be kept at Shared O-RU to verify the sanity of O-DU SW update
- O-DU SW change management rApp maintains the change management plan data for O-DU SW update to
initiate & supervise the SW update process and to validate the sanity of the deployment against the plan.
- Historical configuration and software details of the O-DU is maintained for SW update so that the mitigation
step of the SW update can bring the O-DU to the situation before SW update.

#### 4.20.4.6 Required data for Shared O-RU - Dynamic resource shifting
The following data is used to perform dynamic resource shifting:
- The resource partitioning xApp maintains cell resource information because it needs to be able to partition
frequency resources between different O-DU nodes.
- O-DU measurement counters and KPIs related to served traffic shall be available for Near-RT RIC on a per
O-DU basis.
- Near-RT RIC needs to be able to dynamically update list of allowed bandwidth parts per O-DU nodes in a
way so that each O-DU exclusively uses subset of shared bandwidth.
- The configuration information of cells served by O-DUs needs to be known to Near-RT RIC.

#### 4.20.4.7 Required data for Shared O-RU - Static resource shifting
The following data is used to perform static resource shifting:
- The resource optimization rApp may maintain cell resource information because it needs to be able to
reallocate the cell and associated carrier frequency resources between different O-DU nodes.
- O-DU measurement counters shall be available for SMO (Non-RT RIC) on a per O-DU and per cell basis
via O1 interface.
- The configuration information of cell(s) served by O-DUs needs to be known to SMO (Non-RT RIC).

## 4.21 Network energy saving
This clause provides the motivations, descriptions, and proposed solutions for different energy efficiency and energy saving features (sub-use cases). While there are energy savings by improving base station hardware efficiency and by the evolution of radio access technologies, the EE/ES use case primarily addresses enhancements in software efficiency and optimized configuration/control of various elements and functions, which are often AI/ML based.

### 4.21.1 Background and goal of the use case
The RAN is responsible for a major part of the Energy Consumption (EC) of a mobile network, and the O-RU accounts for the largest part of the energy consumption of the RAN. The rarefication of fossil fuel-based energy resources and the urgent need to reduce CO emissions make the EC a strategic topic for network operators, in addition of being a significant component of the operators’ OPEX. EC can be reduced by improving the Energy Efficiency (EE) of the network, and by introducing different Energy Saving (ES) mechanisms. Several ES mechanisms are related to switching off certain components in the network and differ from one another by their scope, time scale and network area. Applicable ES methods are for instance strongly load dependent. Optimization efficiency might be further improved by AI/ML based configuration thereof. RAN functions related to network energy saving solutions have been studied in 3GPP RAN3 in Rel.17 as part of the Study on Enhancement for Data Collection for NR and EN-DC. The outcome is documented in 3GPP TR 37.817 [i.2]. 3GPP RAN2 and RAN3 might specify enhancements for the Minimization of Drive Tests (MDT) procedures and/or signaling procedures that rely on Xn signaling in Rel.18. While 3GPP RAN WGs work on solutions with ML model inference within the gNB, O-RAN specifies solutions that benefit from ML model inference in the Near-RT or Non-RT RIC (e.g., optimizing the network in larger service areas). For EE related network management, use cases, requirements and solutions are specified in 3GPP TS 28.310 [3]. Furthermore, EC measurements and KPIs for 5G networks, network functions, NG-RAN and gNBs such as energy efficiency and energy consumption KPIs and performance measurements are specified in 3GPP TS 28.554 [7]. Centralized and distributed ES management functions are specified in 3GPP TS 28.541 [5]. EE can be considered for the whole network (i.e., end-to-end), for a sub-network or per single network element. Within a network element it could be applicable per specific radio resource management mechanism or per radio or transport network link. Network wise EE is defined as the ratio between the data volume delivered in the network and the network EC observed during the time-period required to deliver such data, with possible adaptations to account for different deployment scenarios and load situations (ETS ES 203 228 [i.5], 3GPP TR 38.913 [i.4]). 3GPP has launched a study item within Rel-18 (RP-213554: “Study on network energy saving for NR”) that will include among others, an evaluation methodology and KPIs for EC and ES gains and their impact on network and UE performance and EE. To assess EE and ES associated to radio resource management mechanisms and links, appropriate KPIs are necessary. In a timescale of minutes, hours and above, and when the cell load is low, ES can be achieved by switching off one or more carriers or the cell. In a timescale from seconds to minutes, ES can be achieved by switching off RF channels (including possibly antennas) of a massive MIMO system. Tx and Rx parts might be switched independently. In a very short timescale corresponding to a symbol, subframe or frame, Advanced Sleep Modes (ASM) can be considered. RF channel on/off switching can be used at medium load and ASM might be usable even at high load. Lastly, ES solutions can be applied to the O-Cloud, namely to the O-CU and O-DU, and can cover mechanisms such as scale in/out processes, workload placement or hardware processors’ sleep modes etc. AI/ML is useful for all the above mechanisms with the important role of determining the switch off/on time that maximizes ES gain.

### 4.21.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case
Editor’s note: If possible, single common description for all sub-use cases. The following is an exhaustive list of entities across all the identified solutions for this use case. All the entities may not be applicable for every solution. 1) Energy saving rApp: a) Collect configurations, performance indicators and measurement reports (e.g., cell load related information and traffic information, EE/EC measurement reports, geolocation information) from Non-RT RIC/SMO framework. b) Utilize the collected data for EE/ES optimization (e.g., if carriers or cells need to be switched off/on), and initiate O1 configuration updates, A1 policy updates, and/or open FH M-plane configuration updates through R1 interface. 2) Non-RT RIC/SMO framework: a) Collect configurations, performance indicators and measurement reports E2 nodes via O1 and optionally via open FH M-plane from O-RUs and provide this information to energy saving rApp. b) Determine and signal updated configuration or policy for network energy saving use case (provided by energy saving rApp) to E2 nodes, and/or Near-RT RIC, and optionally O-RU. 3) E2 node: a) Report cell configuration, performance indicators and measurement reports (e.g., cell load related information and traffic information, EE/EC measurement reports). b) Perform actions required for EE/ES optimization per the configuration updates or policies received from Non- RT RIC/rApp and/or Near-RT RIC/xApp. 4) O-RU node: a) Report EC and EE related information. b) Perform actions required to perform EE/ES optimization per the configuration updates or policies received from Non-RT RIC/rApp and/or Near-RT RIC/xApp. 5) Near-RT RIC: a) Collect configurations, performance indicators and measurement reports (e.g., cell load related information and traffic information, EE/EC measurement reports) from E2 nodes. b) Receive EE/ES related policies via A1 interface for consideration during optimization. c) Determine and signal updated configuration or prolicy for network energy saving use case to E2 nodes.

### 4.21.3 Solutions
Editor’s note: Sub-use case specific solutions with detailed descriptions in fully separate clauses.

#### 4.21.3.1 Carrier and cell switch off/on
Mobile networks often utilize multiple frequency layers (carriers) to cover the same service area. At low load, ES can be achieved by switching off one or more carriers or entire cells without impairing the network performance. The switch off/on decision can be made by an AI/ML model, deployed in Non-RT RIC/SMO (including option for deployment in an rApp) or at Near-RT RIC. Among others, the AI/ML models' functionality can include prediction of future traffic, user mobility, and resource usage and can also predict expected energy efficiency enhancements, resource usage, and network performance for different ES optimization states. Before switching off/on carrier(s) or cell(s), the E2 node can perform some preparation actions for off switching (e.g., to enable, disable, modify carrier aggregation and/or dual connectivity, to trigger HO traffic and UEs from cells/carriers to other cells or carriers, informing neighboring nodes via X2/Xn interface etc.) as well as for on switching (e.g., cell probing, informing neighboring nodes via X2/Xn interface etc.).

##### 4.21.3.1.1 Solution 1: rApp-based solution (O1-based)
The following entities are applicable to this solution: Energy saving rApp, Non-RT RIC/SMO framework, E2 node(s) and O-RU node(s). A solution for carrier and cell switch off/on: use case through rApp-based solution is captured in table 4.21.3.1.1-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Enable carrier and cell switch off/on energy saving functions in the Goal network by means of configuration parameter change and actions controlled by Non-RT RIC and allow for AI/ML-based solutions. 1) Energy saving rApp 2) Non-RT RIC/SMO framework Actors and Roles 3) E2 node(s) 4) O-RU node(s) O1 interface connectivity is established towards E2 nodes, Non-RT RIC and SMO. Assumptions Open FH M-plane interface is established between E2 node and O-RU and/or SMO and O-RU directly. Network is operational. Operator has set the targets for energy saving functions in the Non-RT Pre-conditions RIC. Operator enables the optimization functions for carrier and cell switch Begins when off/on energy saving functions and E2 node and O-RU become operational. SMO initiates specific measurement data collection request towards E2 Step 1 (M) node and O-RU. E2 node and O-RU send the configured measurement data to SMO Step 2 (M) periodically or event based. Energy saving rApp retrieves the collected measurement data for Step 3 (M) processing. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Energy saving rApp constantly monitors (i) performance and energy consumption of the E2 node(s) (ii) energy consumption of O-RU(s) Step 4 (M) (iii) cell utilization and throughput metrics rApp determines configuration changes for carrier(s) and cell(s) switch off/on use case. AI/ML inference may be used to make the decision. Energy saving rApp requests Non-RT RIC/SMO framework to make Step 5 (M) configuration changes to E2 node(s) and O-RU(s). SMO instructs E2 node via O1 interface to apply the received request(s) for configuration changes from the rApp. O-RU is informed about the Step 6 (M) updated O-RU configuration via open FH M-plane interface either by E2 node, or by SMO directly. E2 node / O-RU notify SMO once cell or carrier switch off/on is completed. Energy saving rApp continuously analyzes energy saving objectives and if energy saving objectives are not achieved, it can decide to initiate Step 7 (M) fallback mechanism, for example, reverting changes over O1 interface for carrier and cell switch off/on optimization. E2 node becomes non-operational or when the operator disables the Ends when optimization functions for energy saving. Exceptions None. Non-RT RIC continues close loop monitoring of energy saving function at E2 node and O-RU. Post Conditions E2 node(s) and O-RU(s) operate using the configuration provided by the energy saving rapp via Non-RT RIC/SMO framework. The flow diagram of the carrier and cell switch off/on using O1-based solution is given in figure 4.21.3.1.1-1.

##### 4.21.3.1.2 Solution 2: rApp and xApp-based solution (A1 and E2-based)
The following entites are applicable to this solution: Energy saving rApp, Non-RT RIC/SMO framework, Near-RT RIC, E2 node and O-RU node. A solution for carrier and cell switch off/on through rApp and xApp-based solution is captured in table 4.21.3.1.2-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Enable carrier and cell switch off/on energy saving functions in the Goal network by means of configuration parameter change and actions controlled by Near-RT RIC and allow for AI/ML-based solutions. 1) Energy saving rApp 2) Non-RT RIC/SMO framework Actors and Roles 3) Near-RT RIC 4) E2 node(s) 5) O-RU node(s) O1 interface connecting the SMO with E2 node and Near-RT RIC is established. E2 interface connectivity is established between E2 node and Near-RT RIC. Assumptions A1 interface is established between Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC. Open FH M-plane interface is established between E2 node(s) and O- RU(s). Network is operational. Operator has set the targets for energy saving function in the Non-RT Pre-conditions RIC. Operator enables the optimization functions for carrier and cell switch Begins when off/on energy saving functions and E2 node and O-RU become operational. SMO initiates specific measurement data collection request towards E2 Step 1 (M) node and O-RU. E2 node and O-RU send the configured measurement data to SMO Step 2 (M) periodically or event based. Energy saving rApp retrieves the collected measurement data for Step 3 (M) processing Energy saving rApp constantly monitors i) performance and energy consumption of the E2 node(s) Step 4 (M) ii) energy consumption of O-RU(s) <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Energy saving rApp determines A1 policy for carrier(s) and cell(s) switch off/on use case. AI/ML model inference may be used to make the decision. rApp requests A1 policy function to create or update A1 policy for energy saving. Step 5 (M) A1 policy function requests Near-RT RIC to create or update A1 policy for energy saving. Near-RT RIC constantly monitors (i) performance and energy consumption of the E2 node(s) (ii) energy consumption of O-RU(s) Step 6 (M) Based on the optional AI/ML inference, and considering A1 policies, the Near-RT RIC can request the E2 node to prepare and execute cell or carrier switch off/on. E2 node can request O-RU node to prepare and execute cell or carrier switch off/on. E2 node will notify Near-RT RIC once cell or carrier switch off/on is completed. Non-RT RIC/rApp and/or Near-RT RIC/xApp monitor energy saving Step 7 (M) objectives (with possible actions, e.g., update of A1 policy, fallback). E2 node becomes non-operational or when the operator disables the Ends when optimization functions for energy saving. Exceptions None. E2 node and O-RU operate using configuration provided by the Near- Post Conditions RT RIC over E2 interface. The flow diagram of the carrier and cell switch off/on using A1 and E2-based solution is given in figure 4.21.3.1.2-1.

### 4.21.4 Required data

#### 4.21.4.1 Carrier and cell switch off/on

##### 4.21.4.1.1 Solution 1: rApp-based solution
The data requirements for this solution are specified below. The input data specified in table 4.21.4.1.1-1 shall be supported by the associated interfaces specified in the table. Requirement Category Parameters / Measurements Source Reference Interface Req-4.21.001 Network load DL PDCP SDU data volume per O-CU 3GPP TS O1 and data interface (data volume in DL 28.552 [6], performance delivered from O-CU-UP to O-DU, clause per PLMN, per QoS level, per slice, 5.1.3.6.2.3 per interface (F1-U, Xn-U, X2-U)) Req-4.21.002 Network load UL PDCP SDU data volume per O-CU 3GPP TS O1 and data interface (data volume in UL 28.552 [6], performance delivered to O-CU-UP from O-DU, clause per PLMN, per QoS level, per slice, 5.1.3.6.2.4 per interface (F1-U, Xn-U, X2-U)) Requirement Category Parameters / Measurements Source Reference Interface Req-4.21.003 Network load DL Total PRB Usage O-DU 3GPP TS O1 and data 28.552 [6], performance clause 5.1.1.2.1 Req-4.21.004 Network load UL Total PRB Usage O-DU 3GPP TS O1 and data 28.552 [6], performance clause 5.1.1.2.2 Req-4.21.005 Network load Mean number of Active UEs, per cell O-DU 3GPP TS O1 and data (and optionally per PLMN, per slice) 28.552 [6], performance clause 5.1.1.23.5 Req-4.21.006 Network load Average DL UE throughput in gNB O-DU 3GPP TS O1 and data per cell (and optionally per PLMN, per 28.552 [6], performance QoS level, per slice) clause 5.1.1.3.1 Req-4.21.007 Network load Average UL UE throughput in gNB O-DU 3GPP TS O1 and data per cell (and optionally per PLMN, per 28.552 [6], performance QoS level, per slice) clause 5.1.1.3.2 Req-4.21.008 UE RSRQ measurement per SSB per cell O-CU 3GPP TS O1 measurement 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.31 Req-4.21.009 UE RSRP measurement per SSB per cell O-CU 3GPP TS O1 measurement 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.22 Req-4.21.010 UE SINR measurement per SSB per cell O-CU 3GPP TS O1 measurement 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.32 Req-4.21.011 Energy Energy consumption O-DU, 3GPP TS O1, consumption O-RU 28.552 [6], Open FH clause M-plane 5.1.1.19.3 Req-4.21.012 Energy Power consumed by physical network O-DU, 3GPP TS O1, consumption function & its components O-RU 28.552 [6], Open FH clause M-plane 5.1.1.19.2 and in O- RAN.WG4.MP [28], clauses B.1, B.5 Req-4.21.013 Energy Transmit power O-RU O- O1, consumption RAN.WG4.MP Open FH [28], clauses M-plane B.1, B.2.1 Req-4.21.014 Topology Site location and orientation per cell 3GPP TS 28.623 [40] siteLatitude, siteLongitude, Azimuth / orientation Requirement Category Parameters / Measurements Source Reference Interface Req-4.21.015 Configuration Carrier frequency per cell O-DU 3GPP TS O1 28.541 [5], arfcnDL clause 4.3.6 Req-4.21.016 Configuration Carrier bandwidth per cell O-DU 3GPP TS O1 28.541 [5], clause 4.3.6 Req-4.21.017 Configuration cellState O-DU 3GPP TS O1 28.541 [5], clause 4.4.1 The output data specified in table 4.21.4.1.1-2 shall be supported by the associated interfaces specified in the table. Requirement Category Parameters / Measurements Target Reference Interface Req-4.21.018 Carrier(s) or CESManagementFunction O-CU 3GPP TS O1 cell(s) indicated 28.541 [5], for energy saving clause 4.3.63 action

## 4.22 MU-MIMO optimization
This use case provides motivation, description, and requirements for a near-real-time MU-MIMO optimization control cell level performance in certain deployments by e.g. deriving channel estimation/prediction and UEs selections with their associated precoding coefficients, resulting in increased per UE and overall cell throughput.

### 4.22.1 Background and goal of the use case
MU-MIMO is one of the key technologies available for increasing UE and cell capacities using existing time/frequency resources. The use of multiple antennas enables the pointing of beams to multiple UEs with each beam spatially filtering the interference from the other beams. This has the potential to provide higher total cell capacity when there are multiple eNB/gNB antennas. In a commercial deployment, some subscribers can be stationary, some can be pedestrian moving slowly, and some can be moving at high speed. Traditional MU-MIMO solutions are very sensitive to subscriber’s mobility and as a result the capacity gains achieved with multiple antennas is limited. New beamforming solutions are emerging that support MU-MIMO with less time sensitivity allowing them to be implemented in the Near-RT RIC. These solutions are applicable to both downlink and uplink data channels and to TDD as well as FDD and can provide high user and cell performance for subscribers moving within a wide range of speeds. The objective of this use case is to allow the operator to improve user throughput and overall cell capacity by deploying an application in the Near-RT RIC that can use information collected from the E2 nodes to calculate and send to the E2 nodes user selections and applicable precoding coefficients in a near real time loop. This use case will also open the door for future expansion of the MU-MIMO to supporting CoMP covering both ICIC and joint multi sites MU-MIMO.

### 4.22.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case
1) Near-RT RIC a) Retrieve cell configuration and UE states from E2 nodes b) Send configurations for DL channel estimation reporting and UL SRS and DMRS to the E2 nodes c) Retrieve DL/UL traffic, and DL/UL channel quality information from E2 nodes d) Use the retrieved information to select the UEs to be spatially multiplexed per frequency and time resources and for each selection calculate the relevant MCS and precoder coefficients for optimal UE and cell throughput e) Send the recommended UE selections with their resource assignments, MCS, and precoding coefficients to the E2 nodes. 2) E2 nodes a) Collect and report to Near-RT RIC information related to cell configuration, UE states, DL/UL traffic, and DL/UL channel quality. b) Apply the configurations received from the Near-RT RIC for DL channel estimation reporting and UL SRS transmissions c) Apply MU-MIMO parameters following Near-RT RIC recommendations (while handling time critical events separately).

### 4.22.3 Solutions

#### 4.22.3.1 MU-MIMO optimization
The context of MU-MIMO optimization is captured in table 4.22.3.1-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal MU-MIMO optimization using Near-RT RIC control loop. Near-RT RIC: Configures E2 nodes’ measurements, collects data from E2 nodes, performs MU-MIMO optimization function, and sends MIMO recommendations to E2 nodes. Actors and Roles E2 nodes: Report measurements to Near-RT RIC and execute MU- MIMO recommendations. E2 connectivity is established between Near-RT RIC and E2 nodes. Assumptions Network is operational. All relevant functions and components are instantiated. MU-MIMO Pre-conditions optimization xApp is deployed with initial configuration All relevant subscriptions established on E2 interface. Begins when Pre-conditions are met. Near-RT RIC initiates data collection from E2 nodes (cell configuration, Step 1 (M) UE states, RRC connection, UL/DL traffic and channel information). E2 nodes send cell configuration, UE states, and RRC connection Step 2 (M) information to Near-RT RIC. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Step 3 (M) E2 nodes send UL/DL traffic and channel information to Near-RT RIC. Near-RT RIC sends DL channel estimation reporting and UL SRS and Step 4 (O) DMRS configuration to E2 nodes. E2 nodes continuously send UL/DL traffic and channel information to Step 5 (M) Near-RT RIC. E2 nodes send updated UE states and RRC connections information to Step 6 (M) Near-RT RIC. Near-RT RIC uses the collected information to estimate channels and Step 7 (M) select UE groupings per ranges of frequency and time resources Near-RT RIC calculates MCS and precoding coefficients for each Step 8 (M) selection of UEs. Near-RT RIC sends optimized MU-MIMO parameters (UE selections Step 9 (M) with their resource assignments, MCS, and precoding coefficients) to E2 nodes. E2 nodes schedule MU-MIMO transmissions using the parameters Step 10 (M) received from the Near-RT RIC. Near-RT RIC sends updated DL channel estimation reporting and UL Step 11 (O) SRS and DMRS configuration to E2 nodes. Ends when Operator disables or uninstalls MU-MIMO optimization xApp. Exceptions None identified. Post Conditions The E2 nodes operate using the newly received parameters. The flow diagram of MU-MIMO optimization is given in figure 4.22.3.1-1.

### 4.22.4 Required data
The Near-RT RIC requires different types of data from the E2 nodes as summarized below with examples: 1) Cell configuration information (e.g., frequency and BW, FDD/TDD, SCS, UL-DL configuration) 2) List of connected UEs 3) UE connection updates (setup, release, handover) 4) UE RRC state changes (connected, inactive, idle) 5) UL channel information (e.g., SRS, ACK/NACK counts) 6) DL channel information (e.g., CQI, RI, PMI, ACK/NACK counts) 7) DL PDCP and RLC buffer status and UL BSR

## 4.23 Sharing Non-RT RIC data with the core
Void

## 4.24 Industrial vision SLA assurance
This use case provides the background and motivation for the O-RAN architecture to support industrial vision Service- Level Agreement (SLA) assurance. Moreover, some high-level description and requirements over Non-RT RIC, A1 and E2 interfaces are introduced.

### 4.24.1 Background and goal of the use case
Industrial vision is an image recognition technology used for work piece inspecting, processing and assembling automation, as well as the monitoring and controlling of production process by replacing human eyes with cameras for various measurements and judgments. The main feature of industrial vision system is that it needs to collect the images of the products to be tested or processed in the area with dense production lines, and then transmit the images to the vision server for detection and feed back the results. Because the industrial vision system shall accommodate to the production speed of the production line, there are strict delay and reliability requirements for visual acquisition, transmission, judgment and execution. For example, a production line which processes 8000 work pieces per hour has an operation interval of 450ms for each product in the production line. Considering the image recognition, results execution time and the mechanical execution time, the two-way data transmission delay left for the transmission network is even less. When 5G is applied in the industrial vision business scenario, the main challenge is the assurance of image data transmission delay and reliability of 5G wireless network in an ultra-dense networking environment. 5G pre-scheduling technology is introduced to reduce the transmission delay and improve the transmission reliability. However, the traditional static pre-scheduling mechanism could not adapts to changing production environments. It always allocates fixed air interface resource according to the static configuration, regardless of the actual data arrival, resulting mis-alignment of resource allocation and uplink transmission needs, causing increased and unstable delay, waste of PRB resources and significant decline in the actual bearable traffic of the cell. Therefore, dynamic pre-scheduling, which allocates uplink resources according to actual work piece arrival time, is deemed to be a more efficient way to enable industrial vision deployment in production line. In O-RAN, RIC can be used to dynamically optimize the pre-scheduling parameters, so that accurate matching between uplink data arrival and uplink transmission resource allocation could be achieved. This helps to reduce uplink transmission delay and improve the resource efficiency. With enrichment information from application server/Manufacturing Execution System (MES), e.g., production-line and industrial camera configuration and image transmission delay related data, Near-RT RIC can calculate and iteratively update pre-scheduling parameter (e.g., pre-scheduling data size, pre-scheduling period and pre-scheduling start time), and send those parameters to E2 nodes vis E2 interface. Note that the configured parameters mentioned above only serve as scheduling recommendations to E2 nodes. Actual PRB scheduling depends on many other factors not captured by this use case. E2 node might for instance supersede Near-RT RIC’s recommendation in case high priority delay critical data needs to be scheduled. One example method to transmit Non-RAN application server/MES data into Non-RT RIC is through SMO external interface. Application server/MES is registered as SMO external system, which serves as a data source outside the O- RAN domain that provides data to the SMO. By leveraging SMO external interface (the interface between the SMO and an SMO external system), production-line and industrial camera configuration and image transmission delay related data is transmitted to SMO as enrichment information, which is consumed by Non-RT RIC and bypassed to Near-RT RIC through A1.

### 4.24.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case
1) Non-RT RIC: a) Support communication of non-RAN data to enrich control functions in Near-RT RIC (enrichment information). 2) Near-RT RIC: a) Support communication of pre-scheduling configuration parameters to E2 node. 3) E2 node: a) Support pre-scheduling parameters configuration over E2 interface. b) Report necessary performance, configuration, and other data for performing pre-scheduling parameter configuration in the Near-RT RIC over E2 interface. 4) Application server/ MES: a) Support communication of non-RAN data about production line information and data transmission information to Non-RT RIC as enrichment information.

### 4.24.3 Solutions
The context of industrial vision assurance is captured in table 4.24.3-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Meeting industrial vision service SLA requirement via dynamic pre- Goal scheduling parameter configuration. Actors and Roles Non-RT RIC, Near-RT RIC, E2 node, application server/ MES All relevant functions and components are instantiated. Assumptions A1, E2 interface connectivity is established. Near-RT RIC and Non-RT RIC are instantiated with A1 interface connectivity being established between them. Pre-conditions E2 interface is established between Near-RT RIC and E2 node. Begins when Production line is started. Periodical industrial vision service is started. MES sends the production-line and industrial camera configuration related Step 1 (M) data to the Non-RT RIC. The Non-RT RIC sends the enrichment information to the Near-RT RIC Step 2 (M) over the A1 interface. Based on the received production-line and industrial camera configuration related enrichment information from the Non-RT RIC over the A1 interface, Step 3 (M) the Near-RT RIC sends initial time-domain pre-scheduling parameters, which includes pre-scheduling data size, pre-scheduling period and pre- scheduling start time, to the E2 node. Industrial vision application server sends the image data transmission Step 4 (M) delay related enrichment data to the Non-RT RIC. The E2 node and the Non-RT RIC sends service data transmission information, which includes relevant measurement (e.g., pre-scheduling time-domain resource utilization which is the ratio of the time-domain resource of the data to be scheduled to the total pre-scheduled time- domain resource, and the image data transmission delay related enrichment information) to the Near-RT RIC. Step 5 (M) Near-RT RIC receives the service data transmission information and then based on those information, evaluates the performance of the pre- scheduling and iteratively updates pre-scheduling start time. Then the Near-RT RIC sends the updated pre-scheduling start time to the E2 node over E2 interface. Based on the pre-scheduling data size, pre-scheduling period and pre- scheduling start time received from the Near-RT RIC, E2 node pre- Step 6 (M) schedules the time-domain resource for the terminal device. Repeat step 4, 5, 6 until the situation in step “Ends when” is met. When the industrial vision service data transmission information (including pre-scheduling time-domain resource utilization fed back from E2 node Ends when and the image data transmission delay related enrichment information from the Non-RT RIC) becomes stable within reasonable range, the Near- RT RIC stops updating the pre-scheduling start time. Exceptions None identified. The Non-RT RIC monitors the service performance by collecting and Post Conditions monitoring the relevant performance KPIs and counters from the RAN and the application server. The flow diagram of industrial vision assurance use case is given in figure 4.24.3-1.

### 4.24.4 Required data
Enrichment information are expected to be retrieved by Non-RT RIC for industrial vision SLA assurance. Service data transmission information from E2 node are also expected to be collected by Near-RT RIC for industrial vision assurance. 1) Enrichment information: a. Production-line and industrial vision camera configuration related data, e.g. production line speed, image color, pixel. (collected from application server/MES) b. Service-related performance measurement metrics collected from application server, e.g., image data transmission delay. (collected from application server/MES) 2) Service data transmission information: e.g., pre-schedule time-domain resource utilization, which is the ratio of the time-domain resource of the data to be scheduled to the total pre-scheduled time-domain resource. (new E2 measurements)

## 4.25 Void

## 4.26 Interference detection, prediction and optimization
This use case provides the background and motivation for the O-RAN architecture to support real-time interference detection and optimization. Moreover, some high-level description and requirements over Non-RT RIC, A1, Near-RT RIC and E2 interfaces are introduced.

### 4.26.1 Background and goal of the use case
LTE and 5G network are deployed based on co-frequency networking due to limited radio resources, which leads to co- frequency interference becoming the bottleneck of network performance. Heterogeneous networks as well as ultra-dense networks make inter-cell interference more complex. As a result, how to detect and/or predict, and then optimize interference is of great importance for wireless networks. Current research mainly focuses on a class of interference optimization solutions called Inter-Cell Interference Coordination (ICIC), which includes static ICIC and dynamic ICIC, assuming that inter-cell interference is available via detection and/or prediction. The principle of ICIC is to restrict the use of radio resources in individual cells in an inter-cell coordination manner, including restricting which time-frequency resources are available, or limiting their transmitting power on certain time-frequency resources. The principle of ICIC is to divide all cells in the network in several categories, then divides the UE to Cell Edge User (CEU) as well as Cell Center User (CCU), and schedule CEU to edge radio resources. Such ICIC solutions suffer from the following limitations:
- The radio resources are allocated statically or in non-real-time, and do not support dynamic adjustment, which
causes low radio resource utilization.
- ICIC depends on specific ideal cell networking structure, and the performance of interference optimization
algorithm is poor for complex networking structure.
- The radio resource allocation is based on cell level, and do not support UE level or UE group level.
- The measurement data is used for post-interference analysis and optimization, with low real-time.
Besides, current research may mainly focus on interference optimization, based on the assumption that inter-cell interference is available via detection and/or prediction. In fact, interference detection and prediction is not less important than interference optimization. On the one hand, interference detection and/or prediction with high accuracy contributes to accurate and efficient interference optimization. On the other hand, interference detection and/or prediction can be utilized to optimize other transmission configurations, e.g., Modulation and Coding Scheme (MCS), not limited to radio resources allocation. Thanks to the open interface and intelligent functionalities provided by the O-RAN architecture, multi-cell-based collaborative real-time interference detection, prediction and interference optimization schemes can be realized. Multi- dimensional data, e.g., network level measurement data, can be acquired and used for interference detection, interference prediction, interference relationships construction, and interference optimization in real time. Interference relationship construction can further take QoS related metrics into analysis, to facilitate UE service assurance through interference management. Based on the A1 policy as well as interference relationships, Near-RT RIC ensures optimal radio resource allocation for UE or UE group or RAN slice or PRBs or mMIMO beams through E2 interface towards RAN for interference optimization. In addition, based on the history interference detection, Near-RT RIC can predict interference for future data transmissions and thus facilitates MCS optimization for UE to adapt to fluctuating interference.

### 4.26.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case
1) SMO/Non-RT RIC: a) Generate and send interference detection, prediction and optimization policies to Near-RT RIC. b) Retrieve QoS related metrics and send to Near-RT RIC. c) Receive interference detection, prediction and optimization performance evaluation updates from Near-RT RIC. d) Receive interference related network level measurement data from gNBs. e) Generate and send radio resources configuration based on the interference optimization policy to E2 nodes. 2) Near-RT RIC: a) Retrieve necessary interference related measurement metrics from network level (cell level) measurement report through E2 interface. b) Receive interference detection, prediction and optimization polices from Non-RT RIC, and support interpretation and execution of Non-RT RIC policies to derive the interference detection, prediction and optimization control or policy. c) Send the controls or policies to E2 nodes through E2 interface for interference detection, prediction and optimization. d) Send interference performance report to Non-RT RIC for evaluation and optimization 3) E2 node: a) Support network state and UE measurements with required granularity to Near-RT RIC over E2 interface. b) Support interference configurations and enhancements based on messages from E2, which are expected to influence RRM behavior. c) Receive interference detection, prediction results from UE and network, and report to Near-RT RIC. d) Update RAN parameters based on radio resources configuration from the SMO/Non-RT RIC over the O1 interface.

### 4.26.3 Solutions

#### 4.26.3.1 Fast loop optimization

##### 4.26.3.1.1 Interference detection
The context of the interference detection is captured in table 4.26.3.1.1-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal Interference detection Actors and Roles Non-RT RIC, Near-RT RIC, SMO All relevant functions and components are instantiated. Assumptions A1/O1 interface connectivity is established with Non-RT RIC. Pre-conditions Near-RT RIC and Non-RT RIC are instantiated with A1 interface connectivity being established between them. Begins when Near-RT RIC triggers interference detection. Non-RT RIC generates interference detection policy and sends the policy Step 1-2 (M) to Near-RT RIC via A1 interface. Near-RT RIC receives A1 policy, converts and generates E2 control or policy. E2 control or policy includes: 1) allocated resource(s) of the reference signal for the gNB(S); 2) Information transmission strategy configured for the intra-frequency cells adjacent to the cells corresponding to the gNB(S); 3) information for UL PRBs to be monitored; 4) for example, for mMIMO deployment scenario, information for mMIMO beams to be monitored. Step 3 (M) The reference signal can be NZP CSI-RS and ZP CSI-IM, which is used by UE(S) accessed in the gNB(S) for channel measurement, channel estimation and interference measurement respectively: a) For channel measurement and channel estimation reference signal: based on the Information transmission strategy, intra- frequency cells adjacent to the cells corresponding to the gNB(S), <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use such as the cells corresponding to gNB(N), keep silent at the allocated resource(s) of the reference signal. b) For interference measurement reference signal: based on the Information transmission strategy, intra-frequency cells adjacent to the cells corresponding to the gNB(S), such as the cells corresponding to gNB(N), can send data at the allocated resource(s) of the reference signal. Near-RT RIC sends E2 control or policy to the target gNBs via E2 interface, such as sending allocated resource(s) of the reference signal for the Step 4, 6 (M) gNB(S), sending information transmission strategy to the intra-frequency cells adjacent to the cells corresponding to the gNB(S), for example the cells corresponding to gNB(N), and sending information for UL PRBs and for mMIMO deployment scenario mMIMO beams to be monitored. gNB(S) allocates resources for reference signal based on the E2 control or policy. gNB(N) allocates resources for DL data transmission to UE(N). Step 5,7 (M) gNB(N) allocates resources for UL data transmission. gNB(S) allocates resources for UL PRBs and for mMIMO deployment scenario mMIMO beams to be monitored. gNB(S) sends reference signal at allocated resources to UE(S). UE detects interference based on the reference signal configured by gNB(S) and sends the interference detection results to the Near-RT RIC through RAN. gNB(S) detects uplink interference based on interference levels and Step 8-10 (M) patterns of UL PRBs among intra-frequency cells and sends the interference detection results to the Near-RT RIC. gNB(S) detects interference levels of mMIMO beams among intra- frequency cells and sends the interference detection results to the Near- RT RIC. If required, Near-RT RIC can configure specific performance measurement data to be collected from RAN to monitor the performance Step 11-20 (O) of E2 control or policy and sends the result to Non-RT RIC for updating the A1 and E2 policies based on the performance evaluation results. Ends when Operator triggers to stop interference detection. Exceptions None identified. Post Conditions The flow diagram of the interference detection is given in figure 4.26.3.1.1-1.

##### 4.26.3.1.2 Interference relationships construction
The context of the interference relationships construction is captured in table 4.26.3.1.2-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal Interference relationships construction Actors and Roles Near-RT RIC, gNB All relevant functions and components are instantiated. Assumptions E2 interface connectivity is established with Near-RT RIC. Interference detection results have been sent to Near-RT Pre-conditions RIC. Begins when Near-RT RIC triggers interference relationship construction. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use QoS related metrics from SMO and network level measurements reported by RAN through E2 interface are Step 1-4 (M) reported to Near-RT RIC for instantiating or modifying interference relationships. Near-RT RIC constructs interference relationships (e.g., interference graph) based on the received QoS related metrics from SMO and network level measurement from RAN. Near-RT RIC constructs uplink interference relationships among intra-frequency cells based on the interference levels Step 5 (M) and patterns of UL PRBs. Near-RT RIC constructs interference relationships among mMIMO beams located at different intra-frequency cells based on interference levels of mMIMO beams. Near-RT RIC uses interference relationships for further interference optimization. If required, Near-RT RIC can configure specific performance measurement data to be collected from RAN to assess the Step 6-8 (O) performance of the interference relationships and update the interference relationships in Near-RT RIC based on the performance evaluation and model retraining. Ends when Operator specified trigger condition or event is satisfied. Exceptions None identified. Near-RT RIC stores the interference relationships for Post Conditions interference optimization function in Near-RT RIC. The flow diagram of the interference relationships construction is given in figure 4.26.3.1.2-1.

##### 4.26.3.1.3 Interference optimization
The context of the interference optimization is captured in table 4.26.3.1.3-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Interference optimization policy generation and performance Goal evaluation Actors and Roles Non-RT RIC, Near-RT RIC, SMO All relevant functions and components are instantiated. Assumptions A1/O1 interface connectivity is established with Non-RT RIC. Interference relationships required by interference optimization Pre-conditions have been constructed by Near-RT RIC. The network operator/manager want to generate interference Begins when optimization policy based on user QoS. Non-RT RIC generates the appropriate interference Step 1 (M) optimization policy based on the configured QoS parameters. Non-RT RIC sends the interference optimization policy to Near- Step 2 (M) RT RIC via A1 interface. Network level measurements reported by RAN through E2 Step 3 (M) interface are reported to Near-RT RIC. Near-RT RIC receives the policy from the Non-RT RIC over the A1 interface and measurement data from the RAN over the E2 Step 4 (M) interface. Near-RT RIC generates radio resources configuration based on the interference relationships (e.g., interference graph) as well as A1 policy. Near-RT RIC sends the radio resources configuration through E2 interface towards RAN for interference optimization. RAN Step 5 (M) enforces the received control or policy from the Near-RT RIC over the E2 interface. If required, Non-RT RIC can configure specific performance measurement data to be collected from RAN to assess the Step 6-12 (O) performance of the QoE optimization function in Near-RT RIC, or to assess the outcome of the applied A1 policies. And then update A1 policy and E2 control or policy. Ends when Operator specified trigger condition or event is satisfied. Exceptions None identified. If required, Near-RT RIC can configure specific performance measurement data to be collected from RAN to monitor the Post Conditions performance of E2 control or policy and sends the result to Non- RT RIC for updating the A1 and E2 policies based on the performance evaluation results. The flow diagram of the interference optimization is given in figure 4.26.3.1.3-1.

#### 4.26.3.2 Slow loop optimization

##### 4.26.3.2.1 Interference detection and relationships construction
The context of the interference detection and relationships construction is captured in table 4.26.3.2.1-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal Interference detection and relationships construction Actors and Roles SMO/Non-RT RIC, gNB All relevant functions and components are instantiated. O1 interface connectivity is established with SMO/Non-RT Assumptions RIC. SMO/Non-RT RIC has RAN topology including the relationship of geographical location among cells. Network level measurement data generated at gNBs through Pre-conditions O1 interface are reported to SMO/Non-RT RIC. SMO/Non-RT RIC triggers interference detection and Begins when relationship construction. SMO/Non-RT RIC collects the interference data and RB Step 1 (M) usage rate as network level measurement data from gNBs. SMO/Non-RT RIC analyzes the interference relationship among cells based on the network level measurement data and the RAN topology. SMO/Non-RT RIC constructs interference relationships (e.g., interference graph) based on Step 2 (M) network level measurement data from gNBs. The interference relationships indicate a table for each cell, listing the neighboring cells that have a significant interference impact. If required, SMO/Non-RT RIC can update the interference Step 3-5 (O) relationships based on the network level measurement data and the RAN topology. Ends when Operator specified trigger condition or event is satisfied. Exceptions None identified. Post Conditions SMO/Non-RT RIC stores the interference relationships. The flow diagram of the interference detection and relationships construction is given in figure 4.26.3.2.1-1.

##### 4.26.3.2.2 Interference optimization
The context of the interference optimization is captured in table 4.26.3.2.2-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Interference optimization policy generation and performance Goal evaluation Actors and Roles SMO/Non-RT RIC, gNB All relevant functions and components are instantiated. O1 Assumptions interface connectivity is established with SMO/Non-RT RIC. Interference relationships required by interference optimization Pre-conditions have been constructed by SMO/Non-RT RIC. The network operator/manager want to generate interference Begins when optimization policy based on the interference relationship. SMO/Non-RT RIC can monitor the pefirmance and creates cell Step 1-2 (M) groups for interference optimization based on the interference relationship and network level measurement data <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use SMO/Non-RT RIC generates the appropriate interference optimization policy based on the network level measurement Step 3 (M) data. Non-RT RIC creates the radio resources configuration based on the interference optimization policy for each cell group. SMO/Non-RT RIC sends the radio resources configuration through O1 interface to the cell group. gNBs update the RAN Step 4 (M) parameters based on radio resources configuration from the SMO/Non-RT RIC over the O1 interface. If required, SMO/Non-RT RIC can update the optimization policy based on the network level measurement data and the Step 5-7 (O) RAN topology. SMO/Non-RT RIC updates the radio resources configuration and sends the radio resources configuration through O1 interface to the cell group. Ends when Operator specified trigger condition or event is satisfied. Exceptions None identified. Post Conditions The flow diagram of the interference optimization is given in figure 4.26.3.2.2-1.

#### 4.26.3.3 Intereference prediction for MCS optimization
The context of the interference prediction for MCS optimization is captured in table 4.26.3.3-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal Interference prediction and MCS optimization Actors and Roles Non-RT RIC, Near-RT RIC, E2 nodes All relevant functions and components are instantiated. Assumptions Near-RT RIC and Non-RT RIC are instantiated with A1 interface Pre-conditions connectivity being established between them. E2 nodes and Non-RT RIC are instantiated with E2 interface connectivity being established between them. Begins when Non-RT RIC triggers interference prediction. Non-RT RIC generates interference prediction policy and sends the policy Step 1-2 (M) to Near-RT RIC via A1 interface. The policy including neighborhood list of serving cell, prediction granularities and prediction steps, etc. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Data collection from E2 node(S) for serving cell: 1) Near-RT RIC initiates data collection request to E2 node(S) via E2 Step 3 (M) interface,to request uplink interference reported periodically; 2) E2 node(S) collects the uplink interference on each RB in the bandwidth of the serving cell and reports the uplink interference to Near-RT RIC periodically as request. Data collection from E2 node(N) for neighbouring cell: Neighbouring cell corresponding to E2 node(N) is a intra-frequency cell adjacent to the serving cell corresponding to the E2 node(S). 1) Data collection to construct uplink interference users set. a. Near-RT RIC initiates data collection request to E2 node(N) via E2 interface, to request DL RSRP for the serving cell corresponding to E2 node(S) reported periodically. Step 4 (M) b. E2 node(N) collects the DL RSRP and reports the DL RSRP to Near- RT RIC periodically as request. c. Near-RT RIC constructs the uplink interference users set based on the DL RSRP. The users with high DL RSRP, whose uplink service may cause more uplink interference to the serving cell corresponding to E2 node(S) are included in the set. 2) Data collection of uplink interference users in the set. a. Near-RT RIC initiates data collection request to E2 node(N) to request uplink interference related information (e.g., UL PRB usage rate, PHR, BSR, location and velocity) of users in the set reported. b. E2 node(N) collects the information of users in the set and reports uplink interference related information to Near-RT RIC as request. Over multiple historical time periods, the collected uplink interference from the serving cell and/or uplink interference related data from the Step 5 (M) neighbouring cell, could be processed as a training data set for the AI/ML model training and/or processed as input data for the AI/ML model inference. Assuming the AI/ML model training using the training data set is on Non- Step 6 (M) RT RIC or on Near-RT RIC, the trained AI/ML model will be deployed in the Near-RT RIC used for the AI/ML model inference. Step 7 (M) Near-RT RIC performs AI/ML model inference and outputs the predicted uplink interference value based on the latest input data. Near-RT RIC sends the RIC control or policy with the predicted uplink Step 8 (M) interference value to E2 node(S) via E2 interface. E2 node(S) could use the predicted uplink interference value for UE(s) to be scheduled to estimate the uplink channel quality (e.g., SINR) at the future PUSCH transmission slot. E2 node(S) could realize this by replacing the uplink interference collected when the last uplink reference Step 9 (M) signal of the scheduled UE(s) is received by E2 node(S). The E2 node(S) then uses the uplink channel quality (e.g., SINR) to decide the MCS in DCI sent to the scheduled UE. Ends when Operator triggers to stop interference prediction. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Exceptions None identified. Post Conditions The flow diagram of the interference prediction is given in figure 4.26.3.3-1 .

### 4.26.4 Required data
Multi-dimensional data are expected to be retrieved by Near-RT RIC for interference prediction, interference relationship generation, and interference optimization, including network level measurement data from O-CU/O-DU, which indicates network status, as well as QoS related metrics from SMO which indicates service requirements. 1) Network level measurement report, including a) UE level information, e.g., CQI, SINR, MCS, UL/DL RSRP, DL/UL PRB usage rate, throughput, DU/UL PRB usage, mMIMO beams, BSR, PHR, location and velocity b) Cell level information: e.g., DL/UL PRB usage rate, throughput, uplink interference 2) QoS related metrics collected from SMO, e.g., 5QI, throughput, latency, packet loss rate, BLER requirement etc.

## 4.27 Communication and computing integrated networks

### 4.27.1 Background and goal of the use case

#### 4.27.1.1 Common aspects & background for communication and computing integrated
networks use cases With the development of 5G and future networks, the integration of communication and computing has become a critical trend in network architecture. Traditional communication networks have focused primarily on data transmission and connectivity, while modern network applications increasingly require substantial computational resources. Examples of these applications include Artificial Intelligence (AI), Augmented Reality (AR), Virtual Reality (VR), autonomous driving, and Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT). These applications not only require high-speed, low-latency communication but also significant computing capabilities for real-time data processing and inference. The past decades witnessed the convergence of communication and computing trends in mobile network. Great efforts were made and good momentum were achieved. C-RAN featured by centralization, cooperative, clean and cloud were first proposed in 2009, which depicts the vision of software based virtualized RAN [i.1]. The concept of Network Function Virtualization (NFV) was initiated from 2012. It introduced the Information Technology (IT) to enable the network transformation from the traditional physical hardware network into a new software based virtualized network [i.6]. This further steers up the pace for the convergence of communication and computing in RAN. Multiple-access Edge Computing (MEC), which enables compute-intensive applications for mobile devices and access to cloud computing service at the edge of communication networks, had attracted great attention [i.7]. The virtualized/cloudification RAN infrastructure can server as perfect edge computing platform. Thanks to the well-developed IT tools/frameworks, such as the containers, kubernets, the general-purpose hardware infrastructure could be easily and dynamically shared by the RAN functionality and the edge applications, providing the converged capabilities of mobile communication and computing. Edge computing was also incorporated into 5G system in 3GPP since Release 15. However, the communication and computing services offered by the existing design, such as NFV and MEC, were designed separately and developed independently. To fulfill the gap, the coordination of computing and networking is proposed in the context of IMT-2020 and beyond, and provides network enhancements based on the functional architecture of IMT-2020, to achieve the computing and network joint optimization based on the awareness, control and management over computing resources [i.8], [i.9]. Besides the above, IETF initiated a new working group on computing aware traffic steering to study how the network edge can steer traffic between clients of a service and sites offering the services, considering the integrated network and compute resource status [i.10]. The O-RAN ALLIANCE focuses on promoting the openness and intelligence of RAN. Its architecture provides a solid foundation for the integration of communication and computing. O-RAN’s cloud-based architecture (O-Cloud) supports the virtualization of multiple network functions, including RAN functions and edge computing applications. Additionally, O-RAN’s intelligent capabilities—enabled by the Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC—allow for the dynamic optimization and management of both communication and computing resources. This flexibility enables O-RAN to meet the requirements of various application scenarios and network conditions.

#### 4.27.1.2 Sub-use case 1: Multi-aspect handover optimization
CCIN enables the collaboration of communication network and computing. It is an approach of softening the boundaries between the cloud computing and networking, such that their resources can be utilized in the most efficient way. This allows the applications to leverage on such convergence of compute and network resources. Cloud based RAN solutions can play an important role in the CCIN with its potential to share some of its vacant computing resources as the edge computing platform. New age applications based on XR (see 3GPP TR 26.928 [i.13], clause 4.1.1), V2X (see 3GPP TR 38.885 [i.14]) can benefit from CCIN but they require application mobility in addition to posing stringent requirements on both communication and computing. New network architecture for CCIN needs to address these application requirements. The types of computing resources required for different applications can be diverse based on the nature of the applications. However, the computing resources available in different entities might be of different computing resource type than what is required for specific applications. It is also possible that capabilities of a computing resource type required for specific applications is different even if an entity supports required computing resource type. Computing resource types referred here could be but not limited to the support for graphical processing unit, neural processing unit, deep processing unit, etc. An example illustration of the cloud based joint RAN + computing node used in CCIN is given below in figure 4.27.1.2-1. In CCIN, the idea is to use the vacant computing resources from the cloud-based RAN (e.g., if the network load is low), to perform some edge computing related tasks so that cloud resources are used efficiently. In particular, leveraging the proximity of the cloud-based RAN nodes to the end users/devices is a key factor to address low latency requirements of the tasks/applications. But in order to take advantage of this opportunity the following needs to be considered:
- If the vacant resources match the task requirements in terms of the type of the computing resource and related
capabilities.
- If the amount of vacant resources of required type/capability suffices the task requirements
- If the nodes are within the proximity required to support the continuity of the service and service latency
requirements of the applications. In the use case of UE handover especially in the scenario where the UE needs to run applications with high computing and low latency requirements such as XR based applications the above stated challenges are more prominent. Thus, in such use case it is desirable that system considers the aspects of computing capability and availability of cloud-based RAN nodes while supporting the mobility of UE and applications in it. In particular, it is important to create the awareness in a cloud-based RAN nodes of the information regarding the computing capability and availability of other cloud-based RAN nodes in the proximity and use these multiple aspects as part of the UE handover decisions. Proximity here means that coverage area of the cells served by source cloud-based RAN node has some overlap with the coverage area of the cells served by target cloud-based RAN node. In order to address aforementioned use case and related challenges it is proposed to extend the CCIN framework. Such extensions focus on obtaining information about the computing capabilities of cloud-based RAN nodes and utilizing this information in UE handover decisions. This helps the handover of the UE to a target cloud-based RAN node in the proximity with computing resource types of relevant capabilities and availability required for the applications in that UE.

#### 4.27.1.3 Sub-use case 2: RAN edge computing resource information exposure
AI/ML processing for network intelligence and automation evolution, as well as new 5G edge applications supporting e.g., immersive Virtual Reality (VR), autonomous driving, and intelligent Internet of Things (IoT), etc., put an unprecedented demand on the edge computing resources. The O-Cloud architecture of O-RAN and the spatial and temporal tidal effects of RAN communication services offer great opportunities for sharing underutilized computing resources in the RAN infrastructure. This helps to improve resource utilization efficiency and reduce operators’ investment on the edge computing infrastructure. The main objective is to provide RAN edge computing information exposure service based on O-RAN architecture and its open interface. In O-RAN, SMO is a great candidate to provide RAN edge computing information exposure service to the service consumers for using RAN edge computing capability. This helps service consumer perceive RAN edge computing resources in the O-Cloud infrastructure, such as total, allocated, reserved or available computing capacity. The service consumers might be other orchestrators, e.g., central cloud orchestrator, edge cloud orchestrator, RAN edge cloud orchestrator, device edge cloud orchestrator etc. The orchestrators could request computing information for multi-cloud collaboration, such as task migration between multiple clouds or edge intelligence. The service consumers could also be application servers, e.g., RAN service computing center serving vertical customers, VR consumers, etc., which could request computing information for application deployment using shared computing resources in a secured way.

#### 4.27.1.4 Sub-use case 3: O-RAN and mobile devices collaborative AI/ML inference
Void

#### 4.27.1.5 Sub-use case 4: XR rendering collaboration
Void

#### 4.27.1.6 Sub-use case 5: Joint communication and computing optimization for V2X
communications It is expected that there will be approximately 8 million autonomous or semi-autonomous vehicles on the road by 2025 intelligent traffic system and autonomous vehicles by facilitating the exchange of crucial information among vehicles, infrastructure, and pedestrians. This exchange encompasses critical data, including real-time updates on traffic conditions, impending road hazards, and precise speed limits, to improve decision-making and prevent accidents. Within the realm of V2X communications, the intersection is one of the most challenging scenarios. The various ways of transportation (e.g., vehicles, pedestrians) coupled with densely constructed buildings contributes to the complexity of traffic conditions, resulting in a large amount of data gathered from diverse sources for comprehensive sensing and collision avoidance. As shown in figure 4.27.1.6-1, Vehicle 1 travels straight through the intersection, while Vehicle 2 maintains a safe distance behind Vehicle 1, intending to turn left. During the drive, there are several risks. ⚫ Vehicle 1 risks colliding with Vehicle 3. ⚫ Vehicle 1 or Vehicle 3 risks colliding with the pedestrian 2 (if he suddenly rushes from behind Building 2 and turns left). However, either Vehicle 1 or Vehicle 3 cannot sense the pedestrian timely due to the blocking by Building 2. ⚫ Vehicle 2 risks colliding with other vehicles and pedestrians (e.g., Vehicle 3 and pedestrian 1). Due to the blocking by Vehicle 1 and Building 1, Vehicle 2 is unable to accurately sense traffic conditions ahead and to the left in real- time and has to obtain information by exchanging information with other vehicles or infrastructures, which may result in high latency and high risk of collision. Building 1 risk Pedestrian 1 risk Pedestrian 2 In collision warning scenarios, the latency requirement for data collection and computing are in a few milliseconds (e.g., the maximum end-to-end latency for cooperative collision avoidance in the advanced driving scenario is 10ms.) [i.12], so that the results and warns can be fed back to vehicles and pedestrians in a timely manner. To fulfill the strict latency demand, it is essential to process these tasks in one or several optimal computing nodes, e.g., the central cloud, edge cloud, radio edge cloud, device edge cloud, etc. Since the end-to-end latency is limited by the computing latency and network latency, the optimal offloading choice cannot be found by either optimizing the network or computing resource. Hence, joint optimization of network and computing resources is needed. For example, the road status sensing data from Vehicle 1, Vehicle 3 and Pedestrian 2 must be communicated and processed and the result fed back within milliseconds to avoid the collision between them. To reduce network latency, it is desirable to process the data locally in vehicles. However, the computing resources of vehicles may be limited, which may not satisfy the task requirements in terms of computing resources and capabilities and could also lead to high computing latency. Therefore, it may be desired to offload all or part of the data processing to the best edge server (e.g., the server completes data processing with the lowest latency, lowest energy consumption.) through joint optimization of network and computing resources. However, since the task requirements on computing resources (e.g., the required type of computing resources) are diverse and the availability of computing resources is dynamic, it is of great importance to enable joint communication and computing resources optimization. What is worse, there are other data to be processed, such as navigation requests from other vehicles, requests for entertainment-related services from passengers, etc., which also consume limited computing and communication resources and increase the difficulties. The main objective of the use case is to enable joint communication and computing resources optimization for V2X communications. In O-RAN, the global information on communication and computing resources is available over O1 and O2 interface, thus facilitating joint communication and computing resources optimization. With the above global information, resource scheduling policies for both communication and computing can be developed in Non-RT RIC (e.g., policies in terms of CPU frequency, bandwidth and power, etc.), and communication optimization policies can be enforced by Near-RT RIC based on the near-real-time UE level information (e.g., real-time link quality). In addition, the vacant computing resources in O-Cloud can provide edge computing services in case of low network load, which further facilitates the low-latency computing in V2X communications.

#### 4.27.1.7 Sub-use case 6: Exposure of performance information to assist computing
resource scheduling Void

### 4.27.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case

#### 4.27.2.1 General aspects of entities/resources for communication and computing
integrated networks use cases The following clauses describe the entities/resources that are important and key players for each of the CCIN sub-use cases.

#### 4.27.2.2 Sub-use case 1: Multi-aspect handover optimization
1) SMO/Non-RT RIC framework: a) Collects necessary CM/PM data from different cloud-based RAN nodes such as O-CU over O1 interface. Collects supported types of computing resources, capabilities of computing resource types, and load/availability of computing resources in different cloud-based RAN nodes such as O-CU over O2 interface. b) Provides CM data, PM data, supported types of computing resources, capabilities of computing resource types, and load/availability of computing resources of different cloud-based RAN nodes such as O-CU to rApp over R1 interface. c) Provides O1 configurations to Near-RT RIC via O1 interface or A1 policies to Near-RT RIC via A1 interface based on the request from rApp. 2) rApp: a) Retrieves necessary CM/PM data related to different cloud-based RAN nodes such as O-CU from SMO/Non-RT RIC framework. b) Retrieves supported types of computing resources, capabilities of computing resource types, and load/availability of computing resources in different cloud-based RAN nodes such as O-CU from SMO/Non-RT RIC framework. c) Derives the proximal computing capabilities and availability information (e.g., represented in tabular formats) for each cloud-based RAN node, use this information to create related O1 configurations or A1 policies to support multi-aspect handover optimization in Near-RT RIC. 3) Near-RT RIC: a) Performs multi-aspect handover optimization based on the O1 configurations or A1 policies received. b) Sends E2 control or E2 policy messages to E2 nodes (O-CU) related to multi-aspect handover optimization. 4) E2 nodes: a) Support CM data read requests from SMO over O1 interface. Collect and report PM data to SMO over O1 interface. b) Support UE handover related control and/or policy enforcement from Near-RT RIC over E2 interface. 5) O-Cloud: a) Support data requests related to supported types of computing resources, capabilities of computing resource types, and load/availability of computing resources of different cloud-based RAN nodes such as O-CU to SMO over O2 interface.

#### 4.27.2.3 Sub-use case 2: RAN edge computing resource information exposure
1) SMO: a) Support collection and analysis of computing related resources from O-Cloud. b) Support RAN edge computing information service, send the RAN computing information for managed O-Cloud related computing resources to the service consumer, e.g., orchestrator/application server. 2) O-Cloud: a) Support computing related inventory and updated resources report with required granularity to SMO over O2 interface. 3) RAN edge computing information exposure service consumer: a) Request/subscribe RAN edge computing information from SMO. b) The service consumer might be orchestrator/application server.

#### 4.27.2.4 Sub-use case 3: O-RAN and mobile devices collaborative AI/ML inference
Void

#### 4.27.2.5 Sub-use case 4: XR rendering collaboration
Void

#### 4.27.2.6 Sub-use case 5: Joint communication and computing optimization for V2X
communications 1) SMO: a) Receive available communication and computing resources information from E2 nodes and O-Cloud. b) Expose integrated communication and computing service and/or computing service. c) Receive integrated communication and computing service requests from external entities. d) Generate and send joint communication and computing resource optimization policies. 2) Near-RT RIC: a) Receive communication resource optimization policies from SMO through A1 interface, and send the policies to E2 nodes over E2 interface. b) Send communication performance report to SMO for evaluation and optimization. c) Retrieve available communication resource information from E2 nodes over E2 interface. 3) E2 nodes: a) Report available communication resource information with required granularity to SMO over O1 interface. b) Update RAN parameters based on communication optimization policies from the Near-RT RIC. 4) O-Cloud: a) Report available computing resource information with required granularity to SMO over O2 interface. b) Receive workload deployment policies and/or computing resource optimization policies from SMO over O2 interface.

#### 4.27.2.7 Sub-use case 6: Exposure of performance information to assist computing
resource scheduling Void

### 4.27.3 Solutions

#### 4.27.3.1 General aspects of solutions for communication and computing integrated
networks use cases The following clauses describe solutions that apply to each of the CCIN sub–use cases.

#### 4.27.3.2 Sub-use case 1: Multi-aspect handover optimization
The context of the multi-aspect handover optimization use case is captured in table 4.27.3.2-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Configure and update the proximal computing information for multi-aspect Goal handover optimization. SMO/Non-RT RIC framework: Provide relevant R1 services to enable the rApp to read relevant OAM data, O2 related data and write configuration changes. rApp: Create related O1 configurations or A1 policies to support multi-aspect handover optimization. Actors and Roles Near-RT RIC: Performs multi-aspect handover optimization. E2 node: Support UE handover related control and/or policy enforcement from Near-RT RIC over E2 interface. O-Cloud: Support data requests related to computing information. Operator has set the targets for multi-aspect handover optimization in the Assumptions rApp. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use A1/O1 interface connectivity is established with Non-RT RIC. Pre conditions O1/O2 interface connectivity is established with SMO. Operator triggers the rApp for multi-aspect handover optimization. Begins when rApp is set to periodically monitor network status and computing information. rApp collects O1 related data using R1 services provided by SMO/Non-RT Steps 1-4 (M) RIC framework. rApp collects O2 related data using R1 services provided by SMO/Non-RT Step 5-8 (M) RIC framework. Create O1 configurations which contain proximal computing capability and availability information for each O-Cloud based RAN nodes for multi-aspect Step 9 (M) handover optimization. Alternatively, create A1 policies which contain proximal computing capability and availability information for each O-Cloud based RAN nodes for multi-aspect handover optimization. rApp sends O1 configurations or A1 polices for multi-aspect handover Step 10 (M) optimization via R1 interface. SMO/Non-RT RIC framework sends O1 configurations via O1 interface or A1 Step 11(M) polices via A1 interface to Near-RT RIC. Near-RT RIC sends E2 control or E2 policies for multi-aspect handover Step 12(M) optimization. Ends when Operator stops the rApp. Exceptions None identified. Post Conditions E2 node(s) operate using the new configurations/policies. participant “O-Cloud(s)” as OCLOUDS participant "rApp" as rApp end end computing capability information \nand availability information for each O-Cloud based RAN nodes for multi-aspect handover optimization end handover optimization via R1 interface A1 polices via A1 interface optimization end The flow diagram of the multi-aspect handover optimization is given in figure 4.27.3.2-1.

#### 4.27.3.3 Sub-use case 2: RAN edge computing resource information exposure
The context of the RAN edge computing information exposure is captured in table 4.27.3.3-1. Use Case Step Description of the step Goal RAN edge computing information exposure Actors and Roles SMO, O-Cloud, orchestrator/application server All relevant functions and components are instantiated. Assumptions O2 interface connectivity is established with SMO. SMO and O-Cloud are instantiated with O2 interface connectivity being established between them. Pre-conditions Editor’s note: Security related procedure is not defined in the present document. Orchestrators or application servers want to request/subscribe RAN edge computing Begins when information. Service consumer (i.e., orchestrator or application server) sends RAN edge computing Step 1 (M) information request to SMO for updated RAN edge computing resource information, or reserving RAN edge computing resources to be used. SMO requests or subscribes the measurement data from O-Cloud and receives computing Step 2 (M) related resource data from O-Cloud through response or periodic notifications. Alternatively, SMO could use AI/ML or other methods to perform computing related resource Step 3 (O) data statistics and analysis. Based on the received request from service consumer, SMO sends RAN edge computing Step 4 (M) information response indicating the RAN side computing related information managed by SMO, which includes updated or reserved RAN edge computing resource information. Ends when Orchestrators or application servers get the response. Post Conditions Box “Service Consumer” #lightcyan Box “Service Management and Orchestration” #gold Box “O-Cloud Platform” #lightseagreen The flow diagram of the RAN edge computing information exposure is given in figure 4.27.3.3-1.

#### 4.27.3.4 Sub-use case 3: O-RAN and mobile devices collaborative AI/ML inference
Void

#### 4.27.3.5 Sub-use case 4: XR rendering collaboration
Void

#### 4.27.3.6 Sub-use case 5: Joint communication and computing optimization for V2X
communications The context of the joint communication and computing optimization for V2X communications is captured in table 4.27.3.6-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal Joint communication and computing optimization for V2X communications Actors and Roles SMO, Near-RT RIC, O-Cloud, E2 nodes, service consumer All relevant functions and components are instantiated. Assumptions Pre conditions All relevant functions and components are instantiated. SMO retrieves data from E2 nodes and O-Cloud via O1 and O2 interfaces to obtain available communication resource (e.g., network load, Step 1-2 (M) bandwidth) and computing resource information (e.g., resource type, available CPU/GPU frequency, storage), respectively. SMO exposes integrated communication and computing services or Step 3-4 (M) computing services to service consumers (e.g., vehicles or other third- party consumers). <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use SMO retrieves service requests from service consumers, which indicate the V2X service requirements. The service request includes but not limited to following information: − Service profile ID − Service type (e.g., ID indicates service type in V2X scenarios, such as safety, advanced driving assistance) − Computing data volume − Location of UE − Service end-to-end latency requirements − UE mobility level, UE trajectory Step 5 (M) − Uplink/downlink throughput requirements − Computing resource requirements, including resource type, resource description, etc. − Storage resource requirement If the service consumer is a third-party service provider, following information should also be included in the service request: − Maximum number of UEs − Coverage for communication part of communication and computing services provided by RAN − Overall uplink/downlink throughput requirements SMO performs joint communication and computing resource optimization via AI/ML inference based on service requests and generates policies. The policies include but not limited to workload deployment (e.g., offload the workload to which endpoint) and/or computing resource scheduling policies. Step 6-9 (M) SMO sends the workload deployment policies including service requirements, and/or computing resource allocation policies to O-Cloud via O2 interface. SMO sends communication optimization policies to Near-RT RIC via A1 interface to facilitate that Near-RT RIC optimized communication resources of E2 nodes. SMO sends notifications (e.g., service availability) to the consumer. The Step 10 (M) consumer establishes connection with the assigned endpoint and sends service load to the endpoint. Step 11 (M) SMO evaluates the performance (e.g., network performance, QoS of service), updates AI/ML model and /or policy accordingly. Exceptions None identified Post Conditions skin rose Autonumber end end Performance monitoring and evaluation end The flow diagram of the joint communication and computing optimization for V2X communications is given in figure 4.27.3.6-1. diagram

#### 4.27.3.7 Sub-use case 6: Exposure of performance information to assist computing
resource scheduling Void

### 4.27.4 Required data

#### 4.27.4.1 Required data for communication and computing integrated networks use cases
The following clauses describe the required data that is relevant to each of the CCIN sub–use cases.

#### 4.27.4.2 Sub-use case 1: Multi-aspect handover optimization
Requirement Category Parameters / Description Source Availability Reference Interface Measurements (Available/ Required) Req-4.27.001 Network Base station Uniquely identify O-CU Available 3GPP TS O1 configuration identifier the base station, 28.541 [5], management including PLMN clause 4.3.1, identifier and gnbId other identifiers of both the serving base station and the target base station in the proximity. Req-4.27.002 Proximal Computing Identifies the type O-Cloud Available O- O2 computing resource type of resource, such RAN.WG6.TS.O capability as CPU, GPU, -CLOUD-IM information FPGA, NPU, [42], clause DPU, AI 4.2.1.4.1.2, accelerator, etc. resourceTypes Req-4.27.003 Proximal Computing task Identifies the type O-Cloud Required O2 computing type of computational capability task, such as information AI/CU/DU, FFT/IFFT/DFT/L DPC/POLAR/PD CP encryption/decryp tion, or user access-related processing, etc. Req-4.27.004 Network Location The geographical O-CU Available 3GPP TS O1 configuration location of both 28.541 [5], management the serving base clause 5.4.1, station and the ntnGeoArea target base station in the proximity. Requirement Category Parameters / Description Source Availability Reference Interface Measurements (Available/ Required) Req-4.27.005 Proximal Computing The total capacity O-Cloud Available O- O2 computing availability and available RAN.WG6.TS.O availability capacity of -CLOUD-IM information computing [42], clause resource types 4.2.1.4.5.2, for both the capacity serving base station and the target base station in the proximity.

#### 4.27.4.3 Sub-use case 2: RAN edge computing resource information exposure
Requirement Category Parameters / Source Availability Reference Interface Measurements (Available/ Required) Req-4.27.006 Computing CPU number for O- O-Cloud Required O2 related Cloud, cluster, or resource data node Req-4.27.007 Computing vCPU number for O- O-Cloud Required O2 related Cloud, cluster, or resource data node Req-4.27.008 RAN edge Total capacity of O-Cloud Available O-RAN.WG6.TS.O- O2 computing computing or number CLOUD-IM [42], clause information of computing 4.2.1.4.5.2, capacity resources Req-4.27.009 RAN edge Allocated capacity of O-Cloud Available O-RAN.WG6.TS.O- O2 computing computing or number CLOUD-IM [42], clause information of computing 4.2.1.4.5.2, capacity resources Req-4.27.010 RAN edge Reserved capacity of O-Cloud Available O-RAN.WG6.TS.O- O2 computing computing or number CLOUD-IM [42], clause information of computing 4.2.1.4.5.2, capacity resources Req-4.27.011 RAN edge Available capacity of O-Cloud Available O-RAN.WG6.TS.O- O2 computing computing or number CLOUD-IM [42], clause information of computing 4.2.1.4.5.2, capacity resources Requirement Category Parameters / Source Availability Reference Interface Measurements (Available/ Required) Req-4.27.012 RAN edge Cloud identifier O-Cloud Available O-RAN.WG6.TS.O- O2 computing CLOUD-IM [42], clause information 4.2.1.4.1.2, oCloudId Req-4.27.013 RAN edge Resource identifier O-Cloud Available O-RAN.WG6.TS.O- O2 computing CLOUD-IM [42], clause information 4.2.1.4.3.2, resourceId Req-4.27.014 RAN edge Resource pool O-Cloud Available O-RAN.WG6.TS.O- O2 computing identifier CLOUD-IM [42], clause information 4.2.1.4.4.2, resourcePoolId Req-4.27.015 RAN edge Computing location O-Cloud Available O-RAN.WG6.TS.O- O2 computing CLOUD-IM [42], clause information 4.2.1.4.31.2, locationsId

#### 4.27.4.4 Sub-use case 3: O-RAN and mobile devices collaborative AI/ML inference
Void

#### 4.27.4.5 Sub-use case 4: XR rendering collaboration
Void

#### 4.27.4.6 Sub-use case 5: Joint communication and computing optimization for V2X
communications communications Requirement Category Parameters / Source Availability Reference Interface Measurements (Available/ Required) Req-4.27.016 Computing Resource type of O-Cloud Available O-RAN.WG6.TS.O- O2 resource computing resources CLOUD-IM [42], clause related data Requirement Category Parameters / Source Availability Reference Interface Measurements (Available/ Required) in O-Cloud, e.g., 4.2.1.4.1.2, CPU/GPU/NPU resourceTypes Req-4.27.017 Computing Available capacity of O-Cloud Available O-RAN.WG6.TS.O- O2 resource computing or number CLOUD-IM [42], clause related data of computing 4.2.1.4.5.2, capacity resources Req-4.27.018 Computing Available storage O-Cloud Required O2 resource related data Req-4.27.019 Computing Cloud identifier O-Cloud Available O-RAN.WG6.TS.O- O2 resource CLOUD-IM [42], related data clause 4.2.1.4.1.2, oCloudId Req-4.27.020 Communication PRB Usage O-CU Available 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], O1 resource clause 5.1.1.2.3， related data Distribution of DL Total PRB Usage Req-4.27.021 Communication Maximum uplink O-CU Available 3GPP TS 28.541 [5], O1 resource bandwidth clause 5.4.1, maxbrUl related data Req-4.27.022 Communication Maximum downlink O-CU Available 3GPP TS 28.541 [5], O1 resource bandwidth clause 5.4.1, maxbrDl related data Req-4.27.023 Communication Guaranteed uplink O-CU Available 3GPP TS 28.541 [5], O1 resource bandwidth clause 5.4.1, gbrUl related data Req-4.27.024 Communication Guaranteed downlink O-CU Available 3GPP TS 28.541 [5], O1 resource bandwidth clause 5.4.1, gbrDl related data Req-4.27.025 Communication Link quality O-CU Available 3GPP TS 28.541 [5], O1 resource clause 4.4.1, qQualMin related data

#### 4.27.4.7 Sub-use case 6: Exposure of performance information to assist computing
resource scheduling Void


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG1.mMIMO-Use-Cases-TR-v01.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG1.MMIMO-USE-CASES-TR-v01.00"
---

# 7 Release xx.yy.zz
where: xx the first two-digit value is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc. (the initial approved document shall have xx=01). yy the second two-digit value is incremented when editorial only changes have been incorporated in the document. zz the third two-digit value is included only in working versions of the document indicating incremental changes during the editing process; externally published documents never have this third two-digit value included. The present document provides a technical report on RIC-enabled massive MIMO use cases.

## 1.2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this text, constitute provisions of the present document.
- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition number, version number, etc.) or
non-specific.
- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including
a GSM document), a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document in the same

# 24 Release as the present document.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: "Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications". [2] MU-MIMO and CSI Feedback Performance of NR/LTE, Bishwarup Mondal et al., 2019 53rd Annual Conference on Information Sciences and Systems (CISS), 20-22 March 2019 [3] E. Bjornson, J. Hoydis, and L. Sanguinetti, Massive MIMO Networks: Spectral, Hardware, and Energy Efficiency. Foundations and Trends in Signal Processing, vol. 11, no. 3-4, pp. 154-655, 2017 [4] T. Marzetta, E Larsson, H. Yang, and H. Ngo, Fundamentals of Massive MIMO, Cambridge University Press, 2016 [5] Physical Layer Measurements 3GPP TS 38.215 V16.4.0 (2020-12)

## 1.3 Definitions and Abbreviations

### 1.3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1] . Non-RT RIC (O-RAN non-real-time RAN Intelligent Controller): a logical function that enables non-real-time control and optimization of RAN elements and resources, AI/ML workflow including model training and updates, and policy- based guidance of applications/features in Near-RT RIC. Near-RT RIC (O-RAN near-real-time RAN Intelligent Controller): a logical function that enables near-real-time control and optimization of RAN elements and resources via fine-grained (e.g. UE basis, Cell basis) data collection and actions over E2 interface. O-CU: O-RAN Central Unit: a logical node hosting RRC, SDAP and PDCP protocols. O-CU-CP: O-RAN Central Unit – Control Plane: a logical node hosting the RRC and the control plane part of the PDCP protocol. O-CU-UP: O-RAN Central Unit – User Plane: a logical node hosting the user plane part of the PDCP protocol and the

# 16 SDAP protocol.
O-DU: O-RAN Distributed Unit: a logical node hosting RLC/MAC/High-PHY layers based on a lower layer functional split. O-RU: O-RAN Radio Unit: a logical node hosting Low-PHY layer and RF processing based on a lower layer functional split. This is similar to 3GPP’s “TRP” or “RRH” but more specific in including the Low-PHY layer (FFT/iFFT, PRACH extraction). O-eNB (O-RAN eNB): an eNB or ng-eNB that supports E2 interface. O1: Interface between orchestration & management entities (Orchestration/NMS) and O-RAN managed elements, for operation and management, by which FCAPS management, Software management, File management and other similar functions shall be achieved.

# 26 SMO: Service Management and Orchestration system.
A1: Interface between Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC to enable policy-driven guidance of Near-RT RIC applications/functions, and support AI/ML workflow. E2: Interface connecting the Near-RT RIC and one or more O-CU-CPs, one or more O-CU-UPs, and one or more O-DUs. E2 Node: a logical node terminating E2 interface. In this version of the specification, ORAN nodes terminating E2 interface are:
- for NR access: O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU or any combination

# 33 - for E-UTRA access: O-eNB.
rApp: An application designed to run on the Non-RT RIC. Such modular application leverages the functionality exposed by the Non-RT RIC to provide added value services relative to intelligent RAN optimization and operation xApp: An application designed to run on the Near-RT RIC. Such an application is likely to consist of one or more microservices and at the point of on-boarding will identify which data it consumes and which data it provides. The application is independent of the Near-RT RIC and may be provided by any third party. The E2 enables a direct association between the xApp and the RAN functionality. O-Cloud: O-Cloud is a cloud computing platform comprising a collection of physical infrastructure nodes that meet O- RAN requirements to host the relevant O-RAN functions (such as Near-RT RIC, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, and O-DU), the supporting software components (such as Operating System, Virtual Machine Monitor, Container Runtime, etc.) and the appropriate management and orchestration functions.

### 1.3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply.

# 6 ML Machine Learning

# 7 Non-RT RIC Non-real-time RAN Intelligent Controller

# 8 Near-RT RIC Near-real-time RAN Intelligent Controller

# 9 RAN Radio Access Network

# 10 SMO Service Management and Orchestration

# 7 R1 and Near-RT RIC API,
- study potential impact and required enhancements on data models of all O-RAN entities,
- identify the any possible impact on Non-RT RIC architecture, Near-RT RIC architecture and AI/ML workflow.
The use cases studied in the Massive MIMO pre-normative phase include:
- GoB optimization (SSB + CSI-RS based GoB), adaptive beam shaping and beam-based Mobility Robustness

# 13 Optimization,

# 14 • Non-GoB optimization,

# 15 • L1/L2 beam management optimization,
- Additional use cases are DL and UL transmit power optimization, optimization of MU-MIMO co-scheduling
through control of spatial separation thresholds, reference sequence optimization for minimization of contamination. The use cases are applicable to FR1 as well as FR2. Algorithms discussed and analysed as part of the Massive MIMO pre-normative phase will be examples only and will not be part of any specification as outcome of this pre-normative phase or subsequent work items. For each use case solution proposal, the detailed objectives are:
- Review, evaluate applicability of, and select from existing deployment alternatives (Non-RT and/or Near-RT
RIC) and AI/ML deployment scenarios and document respective findings.
- Review, evaluate, and select candidate(s) for normative standardization and document respective findings:
o Analyze and evaluate input/output parameters of the algorithm, the impact of the control loop delay on the network performance (e.g., due to dynamic channel conditions) as well as the signaling overhead over the relevant interface, e.g., O1, E2. o Companies should provide simulation results for their mMIMO proposals to evaluate the performance benefits versus complexity taking into consideration E2 load and latency requirements for RIC and E2 node procedures. The availability of simulation results will not be used for gating in decision making. o Study and review additional simulation methodologies required for evaluating RIC-enabled mMIMO optimization approaches. Review and, if possible, leverage existing methodologies already established in

# 35 3GPP.

# 42 / O-RAN specifications.
- If new measurements or configuration parameters are essential to support new mMIMO use cases, the current
standardization approach (specifying the new measurement in 3GPP specifications and referring to in in O-RAN specifications) should be prioritized over inventing new standardization approaches.

# 3 GoB / L3 Mobility

## 3.1 Overview
Grid of Beam Optimization (GoB) provides an automated beam forming configuration tailored to the topology of the cell, the physical environment, as well as the distribution of users and traffic in a cell (e.g. wide beams might cover low-density areas while narrow beams might cover high-density areas). Beam-based Mobility Robustness Optimization (bMRO) is an autonomous self-optimizing algorithm that improves beam-based inter-cell mobility performance by applying beam- specific Cell Individual Offsets (CIO) on the handover triggers between neighbor cells, based on the analysis of beam- AI/ML assisted network-wide (multi-gNB/TRP) optimizations framework proactively and autonomously infers optimal configuration per gNB/TRP for SS Burst Set, DMRS and CSI-RS based on available measurements, observations, and PIs at different nodes of the 3GPP NR and/or O-RAN access and core network elements.

## 3.2 Solution 1: Grid-of-Beams Beamforming (GoB BF) Optimization

### 3.2.1 Problem Statement, Solution and Value Proposition
Massive MIMO (mMIMO) is among the key methods to increase performance and QoS in 5G networks. Capacity enhancement is obtained by means of beamforming of the transmitted signals, and by spatially multiplexing data streams. Beamforming can increase the received signal power and simultaneously decrease the interference generated for other users, hence resulting in higher SINR and higher user throughputs. Grid-of-Beams (GoB) with the corresponding beam sweeping has been introduced to allow beamforming of the control channels used during initial access as well as for data transmission and reception, mainly for high frequency (but can be used also for the sub-6 GHz band) MIMO operation. The physical properties of the antenna array and its possible configurations characterize the span of the beams, namely the horizontal and vertical aperture in which beamforming is supported, and therefore the coverage area and the shape of the cell. mMIMO can be deployed in 5G macrocell clusters as well as in heterogeneous networks, where macro-cells and small cells co-exist and complement each other for better aggregated capacity and coverage. In order to obtain optimal beamforming and cell resources (Tx power, PRB) configuration, one will have to look at a multi-cell environment instead of a single cell. Moreover, different vendors may have different implementations in terms of the number of beams, the horizontal/vertical beam widths, azimuth and elevation range, to achieve the desired coverage. In a multi-node/multi- vendor scenario, centralized monitoring and control is required to offer optimal coverage, capacity and mobility performance as well as control over electromagnetic emissions in order to comply with regulatory requirements. The problem associated with traditional mMIMO BF is that its performance is highly dependent on the choice of the BF pattern. Manual configuration is usually based on the empirical knowledge and manual test results of the domain expert(s) and is performed in a semi-static way. That is, (near-)real time contextual, per-site information (such as cell geometry change, user/traffic distribution, mobility patterns, seasonalities etc.) is taken into account in a suboptimal and non-real time way. This may cause one or more of the following problems:

# 34 1. High inter-cell interference.

# 35 2. Unbalanced traffic between neighboring cells.
3. Low performance at the cell edges or throughout the cell.

# 37 4. Poor handover performance.
This solution proposes a framework that allows the operator to flexibly configure the mMIMO BF parameters in a cell or in a cluster of cells by means of policies and configuration assisted by machine learning (ML) techniques. The configuration optimization relies on contextual information and patterns such as the user distribution, traffic demand distribution, cell geometries, and mobility.

### 3.2.2 Architecture/Deployment Options

# 21 @startuml

# 23 Box "Personnel" #lightblue

# 24 Actor "Operator" as RP

# 25 End box

# 28 Participant "SMO & Non-RT RIC" as SMO

# 29 Participant "rApps" as rAPP

# 43 Participant APP

# 45 Autonumber

# 52 |||

# 3 APP -> SMO : <<EI>> Data Collection
end

# 7 SMO --> rAPP: Data Retrieval
end alt

# 14 RP --> SMO: Optimization Trigger/Target
else

# 16 SMO --> SMO: Performance Degradation
end

# 18 SMO -> rAPP: <<R1>> Update Model Request

# 19 SMO -> rAPP: <<R1>> Data Retrieval
end configuration

# 27 ODU -> SMO: <<O1>> File-download request

# 28 SMO -> ODU: <<O1>> Accepted

# 29 SMO -> ODU: <<O1>> Notification about successful file-download

# 34 ODU -> ORUs: <<OFH-MP>> <rpc get> (o-ran-beamforming.yang) </rpc>

# 35 ORUs -> ODU: <<OFH-MP>> <rpc reply> ... </rpc>
else via OFH-MP

# 43 ODU -> ORUs: <<OFH-MP>> <rpc get> (o-ran-beamforming.yang) </rpc>

# 44 ORUs -> ODU: <<OFH-MP>> rpc reply
end end

# 50 SMO --> SMO : Performance monitoring and evaluation

# 51 SMO --> SMO : Fallback (e.g. restore configuration)

# 52 SMO -> ODU: <<O1>> Default/Fallback mMIMO configuration
end

# 56 @enduml

# 6 2) From E2 Nodes (O-CUs and O-DUs):
a) Essential: Measurement report options are forwarding UE’s CSI (CQI, PMI, LI, RI, CRI) feedback information or covariance matrix (or any other compressed form of the information) from the UEs or newly defined Performance Management counters in the cells of interest; the time granularity of data collection should be configurable and satisfy the requirement of the AI/ML model. Any of the three input parameter options coherently support the GoB optimization use case but might support different implementation and deployment options. b) Optional: Network KPIs: cell downlink/uplink traffic load, RRC connection attempts, average RRC connected UEs, maximum RRC connected UE, DL/UL average active connections, DL/UL throughput, DL/UL spectral efficiency, NI (noise + interference), PH reports; beam resource usage (transmitted power per beam/directions and associated PRB usage), beam-based handover and beam failure statistics.

# 17 3) From External:
a) Optional: User location related information, e.g. GPS information. Input Data Options Interf Source → Target Name/Description Units Report- New or existing ace ing measurement/reporting Period specification O1 O-DU → SMO CSI report (CQI, PMI, LI, RI, CSI ~15min Measurements defined in CRI) per UE report 3GPP TS 38.214 (section 5.2) New reporting e.g. 3GPP TS 37.320 or O-RAN O1/E2 O1 O-DU → SMO Channel covariance matrix (or Complex ~15min New measurement e.g. any other compressed form of values 3GPP TS 38.215 or TS the information) per UE 38.314 New reporting. e.g. 3GPP TS 37.320 or, O-RAN O1/E2 O1 O-DU → SMO PM counter for spatial count ~15min New measurement counter distribution of estimated traffic and new reporting e.g. density 3GPP TS 28.552

# 19 Table 3.2.2.1-1.

# 3 1) Towards O-DU
a) via O1 transferring proprietary beamforming configuration files b) via Open FH M-Plane reading o-ran-beamforming YANG module.

# 6 2) Towards O-RU
a) via Open FH M-Plane transferring proprietary beamforming configuration file Output Data Options Interface Source → Name/Description Units Config. (Target) Specification Target Period* O1 SMO → O- Proprietary beamforming file ~x hours O-RAN.WG5.MP DU configuration file Chapter 8 Open FH O-RU → O- Beamforming weights or attributes Values ~x hours O-RAN.WG4.MP M-Plane DU via YANG module in IE Section 12.4.2 Open FH SMO → O- Proprietary beamforming File ~x hours O-RAN.WG4.MP M-Plane RU; O-DU → configuration file Section 12.4.2 O-RU Open FH O-DU → O- Beamforming weights or attributes Values ~x hours O-RAN-WG4.CUS CUS- RU in IE Section 5.4.2 Plane

# 8 Table 3.2.2.1-2.

# 9 ORAN Entity roles:

# 10 1) SMO & Non-RT-RIC
a) Collect the necessary configurations, performance indicators, and measurement reports from the E2 nodes (O- DU and O-CU), triggered by Non-RT RIC or rApp if required. b) Transfer file including optimized mMIMO GoB parameters via O1 (to O-DU) or Open FH M-Plane (to O-RU) interface. c) Transfer collected data towards rApp. d) Retrieve necessary UE location related information, e.g. GPS coordinates, from the application layer for the purpose of i) training relevant rAPPs and ii) execution of relevant rAPPs. e) Monitor the performance of the respective cells; when the optimization objective fails, initiate fallback procedure and/or trigger the rAPP model retraining and re-optimization. Execute the inference/control loop periodically or event-triggered.

# 21 2) rApps
a) Retrieve necessary UE location related information, e.g. GPS coordinates, from the application layer for the purpose of training and execution of relevant AI/ML models. b) Infer an optimized GoB BF configuration.

# 25 3) O-DUs
a) Collect and report to SMO KPIs related to user activity, traffic load and coverage, per beam/area, and information about beams and resource utilization. b) Apply GoB configuration received from the SMO over O1 or received from O-RU over Open FH M-Plane.

# 3 5) O-RU
a) Apply GoB configuration received from the SMO or from the O-DU over Open FH M-Plane.

# 5 Note: Aggregated and disaggregated gNB architecture is supported.

### 3.2.3 Impact Analysis on O-RAN Working Groups
Please note: This is an initial impact analysis as part of the WG1 UCTG work on mMIMO. The intention is to estimate the expected standardization effort within the O-RAN working groups. It is up to the WGs to decide how the mMIMO functionality should be specified in specifications of each WG.

# 11 WG1 (use cases, architecture)

# 12 • O-RAN.WG1.Use-Cases-Analysis-Report-v05.00
o Update use case 6: Massive MIMO Beamforming Optimization (Section 3.6) considering stage 1 and stage 2 decisions

# 15 • O-RAN.WG1.Use-Cases-Detailed-Specification-v05.00
o Update use case 6: Massive MIMO Beamforming Optimization (Section 3.6) considering stage 1 and stage 2 decisions

# 18 WG2 (Non-RT RIC, A1, R1) Impact

# 19 • O-RAN.WG2.Use-Case-Requirements-v04.00
o Add new use case 6: Massive MIMO Beamforming Optimization based on agreements from pre- normative phase

# 22 • O-RAN.WG2.Non-RT-RIC-ARCH-TS-v01.00.02
o No impact identified o O-RAN.WG2.R1.GAP-v01.00.00: o Specifying retrieval of data collected, e.g., from the RAN over O1 or from external sources, towards the rApps is required (Step 4 in Figure 3.2.2.1-1). o Specifying the means of transmitting a GoB BF configuration, resulting from the ML execution/inference, from the rApp to the SMO and further via O1 to the RAN nodes, is required (Step

# 29 9 in Figure 3.2.2.1-1).
o Not mMIMO use case specific impact: o Specifying ML Model deployment is required (Step 6 in Figure 3.2.2.1-1). o Specifying the means of transmitting an optimization target (or equivalent) to the rApp (ML Inference stage in Figure 3.2.2.1-1). o Specifying ML Model performance monitoring roles and procedures is required (Steps 19 and 22 in

# 35 Figure 3.2.2.1-1).
o Specifying the means of a fallback mechanism in case of unsatisfying rApp performance is required

# 37 (Steps 20 and 23 in Figure 3.2.2.1-1).

# 38 WG4 (O-FH) Impact

# 39 • O-RAN.WG4.MP.0-v07.00.00
o No impact identified o Background ▪ Upload and download of files (Sections 9 and 5.3)

# 43 ▪ Update of beamforming configuration files (Section 12.4)

# 44 ▪ Activation and deactivation of affected carriers (o-ran-uplane-conf.yang)
▪ Activation of beamforming configuration by indicating the stored file (rpc commands in o- ran-beamforming.yang module e.g. activate-beamforming-config) ▪ Notification of beamforming information update (beamforming-information-update in o-ran- beamforming.yang module)

# 3 • O-RAN-WG4.CUS.0-v07.00
o No impact identified o Background ▪ Predefined beams (uploaded via M-Plane) can be used if update is supported by O-RU ▪ Dynamic beamforming control option, see Section 5.4.2 using Information Elements

# 8 • ExtType=1 Beamforming Weights Extension Type,

# 9 • ExtType=2: Beamforming Attributes Extension Type,

# 10 • ExtType=11: Flexible Beamforming Weights Extension Type,
▪ ExtType=19: Section Compact multiple port beamforming information. Weight-based dynamic beamforming (Section 10.4.2), attribute-based dynamic beamforming (Section

# 13 10.4.3) and channel-information-based beamforming (Section 10.4.4) is supported

# 14 WG5 (O1) Impact

# 15 • O-RAN.WG5.O-CU-O1.0-v01.00 and O-RAN.WG5.MP.0-v02.00
o Input parameter for GoB optimization are:

# 17 ▪ forward UEs CSI measurement reporting
▪ reporting of channel covariance matrix (or any other compressed form of the information) ▪ new Performance Measurement counters for spatial distribution of estimated traffic density

# 20 ▪
o Impact depends on the selected option and ▪ is very limited when such measurements are specified in 3GPP specifications (related PM counter in 3GPP TS 28.552, CSI and channel covariance matrix in TS 37.320 etc.) and WG5 specs refer to 3GPP specifications or ▪ is moderate if such measurements are defined in O-RAN specifications

# 26 ▪
o Background ▪ Performance assurance management (Section 6) is aligned with O-RAN.WG10.O1-

# 29 Interface.0-v05.00
▪ File Management (Section 8) to transfer performance data files as well as notification files from O-CU-CP/O-CU-UP to SMO and vice versa. ▪ Provisioning Management (Section 9 in O-RAN.WG5.O-CU-O1.0-v01.00 or Section 10 in O- RAN.WG5.MP.0-v02.00) to configure trace/performance metric jobs (3GPP TS 28.622)

# 34 WG10 (SMO, O1) Impact

# 35 • O-RAN.WG10.O1-Interface.0-v05.00
o No impact identified o Background ▪ Provisioning management services is used to create/modify/delete/read/notify Managed Object Instance (MOI); this means instantiating performance metric jobs and trace jobs

# 40 (Section 2.1)

# 41 ▪ depending on the options:
- performance assurance management services (Section 2.3) collect performance
measurement data
- trace management services collect measurements per UE (Trace, MDT, RCEF and

# 45 RLF reporting) (Section 2.4)
Summary: Impact on O-RAN specification will be very limited in case the input parameters for GoB optimization are specified in 3GPP and moderate if specified in O-RAN. The Open Fronthaul specification already supports file-based upload and download of GoB beam pattern on O-FH M-Plane as well as dynamic beamforming on O-FH CUS-Plane.

### 3.2.4 Relation and Impact on 3GPP Specifications

# 15 CONFIGURATION UPDATE.
- DU signals to CU coverage related configuration information. Whether to include SSB beam information (on
top of cell info) is FFS.
- CSI-RS based beam coverage tuning is an optimization and is not covered as part of NR CCO for Rel-17.
- DU makes the final decision on which coverage configuration to use.

# 20 Impact on 3GPP Specification

# 21 Inter-gNB signalling (Xn)
- 3GPP TS 38.423 NG-RAN; Xn Application Protocol (XnAP)
o Information about the Cell and SSB Beam Coverage State might be exchanged between gNB DUs to identify the SSB beam deployment configuration enabled by the respective gNB DU o Target 3GPP Rel.17

# 26 Intra-gNB signalling (F1)
- 3GPP TS 38.473 38.473 NG-RAN; F1 Application Protocol (F1AP)
o A Coverage Modification Notification might be sent from gNB DU to gNB CU as part of a configuration update message in case of changes on the Cell and SSB Beam Coverage State o Target 3GPP Rel. 17 gNB measurements

# 33 • 3GPP TS 38.314 NR; Layer 2 measurements
o The channel covariance matrix might be specified as new L2 measurement in RAN2. gNB measurement reporting
- 3GPP TS 37.320 UTRA and E-UTRA and NG Radio Access; Radio measurement collection for Minimization
of Drive Tests (MDT); Overall description; Stage 2 o The new UE specific measurement reporting (channel covariance matrix and CSI feedback reporting) might be specified in the MDT framework in RAN2
- 3GPP TS 28.552 Management and orchestration; 5G performance measurements
New PM counters (e.g. spatial distribution of estimated traffic density or histogram of covariance matrix) might be specified in SA5 Summary: The related changes to 3GPP specifications for Inter- and Intra-gNB signalling are not essential to support GoB optimization in O-RAN. The related enhancements to 3GPP specifications for gNB measurements and measurement reporting are essential to support GoB optimization in O-RAN.

### 3.2.5 Feasibility and Gain/Complexity Analysis

# 3 Trail setup:

# 4 • Product: AirScale MAA 64T64R n78 200W

# 5 • Frequency band: 3.5 GHz

# 6 • Standard: NR TDD

# 7 • Number of base stations: 1

# 8 • Total output power: 200 W

# 9 • Sector opening angle: 120°

# 10 • Number of UEs: 1 and 20
- Scenarios: UEs stationary as well as drive tests with shopping street

# 12 • Number of TX/RX paths: 64T / 64R

# 13 • Number of CSI-RS ports: 8
- TRx configuration: 4x8x2 array (4 columns, 8 rows, 2polarizations)

# 15 • Channel type: actual channel in the field

# 16 Trial results:
- Baseline configuration: 6 beams uniformly horizontally spread with 6° down tilt

# 20 Figure 3.2.5.1-1.

# 23 • Scenario: Single UE Drive Test

# 25 Figure 3.2.5.1-2.
- Weighted RSRP measurements - Single UE Drive Test

# 3 Figure 3.2.5.1-3.
- Scenario: 20 UEs drive tests including shopping street

# 7 Figure 3.2.5.1-4.
- Weighted RSRP measurements – 20 UEs drive tests including shopping street

# 11 Figure 3.2.5.1-5.
The ML based beam pattern optimization algorithm can adapt to the traffic distribution and hence provides a significant gain in terms of weighted downlink RSRP. Uplink throughput enhancements are also expected since SSB beams are used for uplink receive beamforming.

## 3.3 Solution 2: Beam-based Mobility Robustness Optimization
(bMRO)

### 3.3.1 Problem Statement, Solution, and Value Proposition
Mobility Robustness Optimization is a well-known SON concept. First supporting measurements have been specified in LTE in Release 9. Its principle is to configure a number of parameters in the eNB that can delay or advance the HO procedure between two neighboring cells. The two parameters are 1. the cell individual offset (CIO) and 2. the time-to- trigger (TTT). One CIO value is a reference signal received power offset specific to one neighbor cell, stored in the eNB. The TTT value is a time offset specific to one neighbor cell, stored in the eNB. By changing the CIO and the TTT, the operator may solve the following problems:

# 10 1. Unbalanced traffic between neighboring cells.

# 11 2. Low performance of cell edge users.

# 12 3. Poor handover performance.
In particular, the prime use of optimizing the CIO and the TTT values is reducing the number of anomalous or problematic

# 15 HO events between neighbor cells.
In a 5G mMIMO cell/gNB whose coverage is provided not by a single beam but by several beams which radiate in different directions. Thus, from the UEs point of view, the border between two neighbor cells is not a single border anymore but degenerates to several beam→cell (or beam→beam) borders, where the one beam is radiated by the source gNB and another beam is radiated from the target gNB. In this scenario, using a single CIO+TTT value pair on a cell→cell basis will be suboptimal, as one beam→cell (or beam→beam) border might require a different CIO+TTT configuration for optimal HOs than another beam→cell (or beam→beam) border. This solution proposes to employ beam-specific CIO and TTT values between neighbor cells, e.g., instead of a single CIO+TTT value pair for the cell1→cell2 border, to employ a CIO+TTT value pair for the SourceCell[Beam1]

# 25 →TargetCell and SourceCell[Beam2] →TargetCell borders.
The value of this solution is that the number of anomalous and problematic HOs can be resolved on a beam→cell basis, i.e., with much finer granularity than with the legacy SON cell→cell solution.

### 3.3.2 Architecture/Deployment Options

# 30 Option 1
The Near-RT RIC may host an xApp to optimize inter-cell beam mobility such as bMRO. In this case the Near-RT RIC might for instance configure beam individual offsets and the beam individual TTT for inter-cell mobility decisions. The learning and the inference of the parameters may be done on individual beam→cell (or beam→beam) borders or collectively on a group of beam→cell borders, depending on the implementation. The optimization might follow an operator/SMO defined objective (e.g., minimize number/rate of TE HOs, TL HOs, or ping-pong HOs; optimize for certain beam→cell borders; constrained optimization based on other objectives etc.), and so might be triggered by a new operator/SMO defined optimization target, detection of performance degradation, or a change in the radio environment

# 38 (e.g., change in the mMIMO Beam Pattern).

# 6 Autonumber

# 8 Box “SMO” #gold

# 9 Participant SMO as “Operator/SMO”

# 10 Participant NON as “Non-RT RIC”

# 13 Box “O-RAN” #lightpink

# 14 Participant NearRTRIC as “Near-RT RIC”

# 15 Participant ORANnodes as "E2 Nodes"

# 16 End box

# 19 ORANnodes -> NearRTRIC : <<E2>> KPI/PM report

# 20 Hnote over NearRTRIC
mMIMO Beam Pattern Information is available

# 22 Endhnote
end

# 26 SMO -> NearRTRIC: <<O1>> Initialize/Provide ML Model

# 27 ORANnodes -> NearRTRIC: <<E2>> KPI/PM report

# 28 Hnote over NearRTRIC
mMIMO Beam Pattern Information is available

# 30 Endhnote

# 31 NearRTRIC -> NearRTRIC: AI/ML model training

# 32 NearRTRIC -> NearRTRIC: AI/ML model inference
end

# 37 Hnote over NearRTRIC
mMIMO Beam Pattern Change

# 39 Endhnote
end

# 42 SMO -> NearRTRIC: <<O1>> Optimization Trigger:\nNew optimization target
end

# 45 NearRTRIC -> NearRTRIC: Optimization Trigger:\nPerformance degradation
end

# 47 NearRTRIC -> ORANnodes: <<E2>> Configure new mobility parameters
end

# 51 ORANnodes -> NearRTRIC: <<E2>> KPI/PM report

# 52 NearRTRIC -> NearRTRIC: Performance monitoring and evaluation

# 53 NearRTRIC -> NearRTRIC: Fallback configuration (O)

# 54 NearRTRIC -> NearRTRIC: Model retraining and update
end

# 58 @enduml

# 12 Requirements
Input Data Interface Source → Name/Description Units Reporting (Target) Specification Target Period* E2 O-CU → Near- Number of too early HOs from a count ~1 min 3GPP TS 28.552 RT RIC given beam to a given neighbor cell (Sec. 5.1.1.25) E2 O-CU → Near- Number of too late HOs from a given count ~1 min 3GPP TS 28.552 RT RIC beam to a given neighbor cell (Sec. 5.1.1.25) E2 O-CU → Near- Number of attempted HOs from a count ~1 min 3GPP TS 28.552 RT RIC given beam to a given neighbor cell (Sec. 5.1.1.25) E2 O-CU → Near- Number of successful HOs from a count ~1 min 3GPP TS 28.552 RT RIC given beam to a given neighbor cell (Sec. 5.1.1.25) E2 O-CU → Near- Number of failed HOs from a given count ~1 min 3GPP TS 28.552 RT RIC beam to a given neighbor cell (Sec. 5.1.1.25)

# 13 Table 3.3.2.1-1.
Output Data Interface Source → Name/Description Units Config. (Target) Specification Target Period* E2 Near-RT RIC CIO for a given beam to a given dB trigger- 3GPP TS 38.331 → O-CU neighbor cell based ≥ 1 (Sec. 5.3.5, Sec. 5.5.4) min

# 15 Table 3.3.2.1-2.
*The period represents the baseline assumption for the gain/complexity analysis in this document. Faster reporting and reconfiguration periods or even different input data over E2 for faster Near-RT RIC control loops are not excluded for the normative phase if seen beneficial.

# 10 2) Near-RT RIC
a) Retrieve necessary configurations, performance indicators, measurement reports and other data from E2 nodes for the purpose of training of relevant AI/ML models. Retrieve ML Models from the Non-RT RIC over O1/O2. b) Train the relevant AI/ML model using the collected data. FFS: Perform offline training of relevant AI/ML models. c) Use the trained AI/ML models to infer the correlation between the Grid-of-Beam configuration, handover, and beam failure statistics of multiple cells and beams, and to predict the optimal configuration of mobility parameters (e.g., beam individual offsets for beam mobility) for each cell/beam pair optionally according to a global optimization objective designed by the operator and retrieved from the SMO. d) Send the optimal per beam mobility parameter configurations to E2 nodes. e) Monitor the performance of the AI/ML model based on configurations, performance indicators, and measurement reports received from the RAN. f) Retrain the AI/ML model and re-optimize the beam mobility configurations based on the monitored performance and/or based on a switch of the Grid-of-Beam configuration. g) Execute the control loop periodically or event-triggered. h) Retrieve mMIMO Beam Pattern related information from the SMO.

# 26 3) E2 nodes
a) Collect and report to Near-RT RIC KPIs related to Grid-of-Beam configuration, handover and beam failure statistics. b) Apply L3 beam mobility parameter configuration following Near-RT RIC configuration. c) Send mMIMO Beam Pattern related information to the Near-RT RIC.

# 32 Option 2
The bMRO optimization algorithm might also be hosted in Non-RT RIC. Same principles apply, whereas KPI reporting and configuration management over O1 interface will be used.

### 3.3.3 Impact Analysis on O-RAN Working Groups
Editor’s note: This is an initial impact analysis as part of the WG1 UCTG work on mMIMO. The intention is to estimate the expected standardization effort within the O-RAN working groups. It is up to the WGs to decide how the mMIMO functionality should be specified in specifications of each WG.

# 40 WG1 (use cases, architecture) Impact

# 41 • O-RAN.WG1.Use-Cases-Analysis-Report-v05.00
o Update use case 6: Massive MIMO Beamforming Optimization (Section 3.6) considering stage 1 and stage 2 decisions

# 44 • O-RAN.WG1.Use-Cases-Detailed-Specification-v05.00
o Update use case 6: Massive MIMO Beamforming Optimization (Section 3.6) considering stage 1 and stage 2 decisions

# 3 WG2 (Non-RT RIC, A1) Impact

# 4 • O-RAN.WG2.Use-Case-Requirements-v04.00
o If seen as beneficial, add new use case 6: Massive MIMO Beamforming Optimization based on agreements from pre-normative phase

# 7 • O-RAN.WG2.AIML-v01.03
o Depending on implementation, add a deployment scenario involving offline training in the Near-RT

# 9 RIC.

# 10 WG3 (Near-RT RIC, E2) Impact

# 11 • O-RAN.WG3.UCR-v01.00
o Add new use case 6: Massive MIMO Beamforming Optimization based on agreements from pre- normative phase

# 14 • O-RAN.WG3.RICARCH-v02.00
o No impact identified o Background information ▪ bMRO is an xApp running in the Near-RT RIC ▪ bMRO is using Near-RT RIC services REPORT and POLICY and uses the E2 interface to a) get KPI/PM reports from the E2 Node and b) configure beam-based cell individual offsets as policy in the E2 Node.

# 21 • O-RAN.WG3.E2GAP-v02.00
o No impact identified o Background information ▪ bMRO xApp uses the E2 interface to a) get KPI/PM reports from the E2 Node and b) configure beam-based cell individual offsets as policy in the E2 Node. ▪ The following services of the E2 interface are used: 1. E2 KPI/PM report (Figure 3.3.2.1-1: step 3, step 9) using Near-RT RIC REPORT

# 28 Service
2. E2 Configure new mobility parameters (Figure 3.3.2.1-1: step 8) using Near-RT RIC

# 30 POLICY Service

# 31 • O-RAN.WG3.E2AP-v02.00
o No impact identified o Background information ▪ The following services of the E2 interface are used: 3. E2 KPI/PM report (Figure 3.3.2.1-1: step 3, step 9) using Near-RT RIC REPORT

# 36 Service
4. E2 Configure new mobility parameters (Figure 3.3.2.1-1: step 8) using Near-RT RIC

# 38 POLICY Service

# 39 • O-RAN.WG3.E2SM-RC-v01.01.00 or NEW: O-RAN.WG3.E2SM-CC
Add RAN POLICY service “Mobility Robustness Optimization” with Policy Approach “Offset” to E2SM-RC (modify E2SM-RC to support cell specific signaling) or add this policy to a new Cell level/E2 Node level Control (i.e. E2SM-CC)

# 43 • O-RAN.WG3.E2SM-KPM-v02.00
o No direct impact identified ▪ Assuming the new measurements will be specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 ▪ Dependency on completion of bMRO functionality in 3GPP Rel.17 o Background ▪ The E2 Node (O-CU-CP) shall host the RAN Function “KPM Monitor”

# 49 WG5 (O1) Impact

# 50 • O RAN.WG5.O-CU-O1.0-v01.00
o No direct impact identified ▪ Assuming data model (provisioning management) will be enhanced with beam individual offsets in 3GPP TS 28.541 (according to cellIndividualOffset in module _3gpp-nr-nrm- nrcellrelation.yang) ▪ Assuming performance measurements in 3GPP TS 28.552 are enhanced to consider HO failures TooEarly, Too Late and ToWrongCell per beam; ▪ Assuming information about assignment of UE to beam is available at CU (using UE context messages specified in 3GPP TS 38.473 to indicate) o Dependency in completion of bMRO functionality in 3GPP Rel.17 o Background ▪ Performance management (Section 6) is aligned with O-RAN.WG10.O1-Interface.0-v05.00 ▪ File Management (Section 8) to transfer configuration files as well as performance data files and notification log files. ▪ Provisioning Management (Section 9 in O RAN.WG5.O-CU-O1.0-v01.00 and O- RAN.WG5.MP.0-v02.00 or Section 10 in O-RAN.WG5.MP.0-v02.00) to transmit trigger, to configure beam individual offsets and to configure performance metric jobs (3GPP TS 28.622).

# 16 WG10 (SMO, O1) Impact

# 17 • O-RAN.WG10.O1-Interface.0-v05.00
o No impact identified o Background ▪ Provisioning management services (Section 2.1) allow configuration changes using

# 21 NETCONF (TS 28.532, TS 28.541)
▪ Performance assurance management services (Section 2.3) collect performance measurement data for file reporting (File management services explained in Section 2.5) or data streaming Summary: The impact on O-RAN specification is quite limited, assuming bMRO related KPIs are specified in 3GPP SA5. Work in O-RAN WGs can be minimized by referring to 3GPP specification as done today, e.g., E2SM-KPM, O

# 27 RAN.WG5.O-CU-O1, O-RAN.WG10.O1.

### 3.3.4 Relation and Impact on 3GPP Specification

# 30 3GPP Mobility Robustness Optimization
LTE MRO is a well-known SON method that optimizes the mobility parameters and thereby minimizes the mobility related failures as well as unnecessary handovers (HOs). First the following radio link or handover failure causes are identified:

# 34 1. Too late handovers (TL)

# 35 2. Too early handovers (TE)

# 36 3. Handover to wrong cell

# 37 4. Ping-pong (PP) handovers
For this purpose, eNBs and UEs evaluate radio link or handover failure related information. UEs might provide respective information after radio link re-establishment and neighbour eNBs might exchange respective failure indications.

# 40 SON MRO was first standardized in LTE Rel.9:
- 3GPP TS 36.902 E-UTRAN; SON Use Cases and Solutions
- 3GPP TS 36.300 E-UTRAN; Overall description stage 2
- 3GPP TS 36.423 E-UTRAN; X2 Application Protocol (X2AP)
o New X2-AP procedures: Radio Link Failure Indication o New X2-AP procedure: Handover Report Indication
- 3GPP TS 36.331 E-UTRA; Radio Resource Control (RRC)
o RLF report indication (UE assistance signalling for root cause analysis)
- 3GPP TS 32.425 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements E-UTRAN
o KPIs for Too-Late HOs (TL), Too-Early HOs (TE), HO to wrong cell, Ping-pong (PP)
- 3GPP TS 28.658 E-UTRAN Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information

# 4 Service (IS)
o Configuration management of MRO Cell Individual Offsets (CIO) LTE Rel.10 specified that RLF Report will also be available after UE went to Idle mode (Re-establishment was not successful). LTE Rel.11 supports signalling between base stations for Inter-RAT support. MRO functionality was added to NR and NG-RAN in Rel.16:
- 3GPP TS 38.300 E-UTRAN; Overall description stage 2
- 3GPP TS 38.423 NG-RAN; Xn Application Protocol (XnAP)
- 3GPP TS 38.331 NR; Radio Resource Control (RRC)
- 3GPP TS 28.552 Management and orchestration; 5G performance measurements
o KPIs for Too-Late HOs (TL), Too-Early HOs (TE), HO to wrong cell, Ping-pong (PP)
- 3GPP TS 28.541 Management and orchestration; 5G Network Resource Model (NRM); Stage 2 and stage 3
o Configuration management of MRO Cell Individual Offsets (CIO) NR and NG-RAN MRO includes connection failure due to intra-system as well as inter-system mobility, inter-system unnecessary HO as well as inter-system ping-pong handover. Overall, LTE and NR MRO are essential mobility features that can reduce dominating radio link failures, make handover more robust and also reduce handover ping-pong effects by adapting cell individual offsets. 3GPP is also working to extent the concept to support mMIMO with beam-based approaches for MRO.

# 22 Impact of bMRO on 3GPP Specification
gNB reporting
- 3GPP TS 28.552 Management and orchestration; 5G performance measurements
o Beam-based KPIs for Too-Late HOs (TL), Too-Early HOs (TE), HO to wrong cell o CR S5-214485 submitted to 3GPP SA5 at 3GPP TSG-SA5 Meeting #138-e meeting, 23rd Aug 2021 - 31st Aug 2021; Conclusion: noted o CR S5-215326 submitted to 3GPP SA5 at 3GPP TSG-SA5 Meeting #139-e meeting, 11th Oct 2021 – 20th Oct 2021 o Target 3GPP Rel.17
- 3GPP TS 28.313 Management and orchestration; Self-Organizing Networks (SON) for 5G networks
o Add beam based KPIs for too early handover failures, too late handover failures, handover failures to wrong cell o Target 3GPP Rel. 17 gNB configuration
- 3GPP TS 28.541 Management and orchestration; 5G Network Resource Model (NRM); Stage 2 and stage 3
o Beam-based configuration management of MRO Cell Individual Offsets (CIO) o CR S5-215328 (stage 2) and CR S5-215348 (stage 3) submitted to 3GPP SA5 at 3GPP TSG-SA5 Meeting #139-e meeting, 11th Oct 2021 – 20th Oct o Target 3GPP Rel.17

# 41 UE configuration and reporting
- 3GPP TS 38.331 NR; Radio Resource Control (RRC) protocol specification
o Add UE configuration of beam-based individual offsets for MRO o Add UE reporting of last serving beam in the RLF report o CR on 3GPP TS 38.331 should be submitted to 3GPP RAN2 o Target 3GPP Rel. 17

### 3.3.5 Feasibility and Gain/Complexity Analysis

# 18 Simulation Results

# 19 Simulation setup:
- 7 site hexagonal grid scenario (3GPP TR38.901 Urban Micro, ISD=200m)
- center frequency: 28 GHz (FR2), bandwidth: 100 MHz

# 22 • 16x8 antennas
- 8+4 beams (8 narrow beams with lower down tilt, 4 broader beams with higher down tilt)
- 4 simultaneous beams (maximum number of active beams for transmission within a cell used for spatial
multiplexing)

# 26 • BS height: 10 m, mechanical tilt: 9°

# 27 • SSB beams with 15MHz bandwidth

# 28 • KPI period: 30 seconds
- Number of UEs: 630 UEs total (210 slow UEs + 420 street UEs)

# 30 • Traffic: full buffer

# 3 Figure 3.3.5.1-1.
- A3 Trigger with 80 ms TTT (time-to-trigger) and 2dB total offset, 60 ms L3 filtering

# 5 Simulation Results:

# 6 • 3 KPI periods = 90 s
- Reduction of the number of TE (too early) HOs and TL (too late) HOs:

# 10 Figure 3.3.5.1-2.
The beam-based MRO can reduce the number of total network TL failures by 90% compared to the baseline (no MRO) and by 58% compared to legacy MRO (left graph). The beam-based MRO can reduce the total number of network TE failures by 57% compared to the baseline and by 23% compared to legacy MRO (right graph).
- Reduction of total network outage rate and failures:

# 3 Figure 3.3.5.1-3.
The beam-based MRO can reduce the outage rate by 44% compared to the baseline and 17% compared to legacy MRO (left graph). The beam-based MRO can reduce the total network failure by 82% compared to the baseline and by 34% compared to legacy MRO (right graph).
- Reduction of the rate of network ping-pong (PP) failures:

# 10 Figure 3.3.5.1-4.
The beam-based MRO can reduce the rate of PP handovers by 18% compared to the baseline and by 46% compared to legacy MRO (left graph). As the result of the reduction in the rate of PP handovers, the total frequency of HOs can be reduced by 15% compared to the baseline and by 13% compared to legacy MRO (right graph).

# 15 Complexity Analysis
Analysis is provided relative the legacy LTE MRO implementation. The computational complexity as well as the signalling overhead (reporting from the E2 Node (O-CU) as well as configuration towards the E2 Node (O-CU)) increases as follows:
- Computational complexity: Ο([No. of beams] x [MRO complexity])
- Increase of signaling: Ο([No. of beams] x [MRO signalling])
The computational complexity may be reduced by enhanced proprietary implementations, e.g., forming virtual groups of beams with similar characteristics, e.g., neighbor beams covering the same street or area. With such an implementation the computational complexity can be reduced to:
- Computational complexity: Ο([No. of beam groups] x [MRO complexity])
- Increase of signaling: Ο([No. of beam groups] x [MRO signalling])
Overall computational complexity seems reasonable since the time frequency of inter-cell handover events is relatively low and even decreases with the introduction of beam-based MRO. Similarly, the necessary signaling frequency (KPI reporting as well as configuration of Cell Individual Offsets) is rather low, e.g., in the range of seconds in the worst case.

## 3.4 Solution 3: AI/ML Based Initial Access (SS Burst Set), CSI-RS
and DMRS Configuration Optimization

### 3.4.1 Problem Statement and Value Proposition
3GPP NR based wireless cellular networks promises to provide leaner system design compared to its predecessors in a bid to improve spectral efficiency, power consumption performance and reduce interferences. Ultra-lean design aims to minimize “always on” reference signal transmissions in the downlink. Impact is more on Massive MIMO (mMIMO) system and networks where gNB/TRP should transmit downlink reference signals only when necessary. List of “always on” reference signals include synchronization signals (SS Burst Sets), CSI-RS TRS, CSI-RS Acquisition, DMRS and system broadcast information. Subsequent sections present AI/ML based optimization problem description with SS Burst Set configuration optimization which operates in slowest control loop (Non-RT RIC Control Loop) of the O-RAN architecture. Gradually problem statement is extended to CSI-RS and DMRS configuration optimizations operating in

# 21 Near-RT RIC and O-DU control loops.
In beamformed Massive MIMO systems, initial access (IA) and time frequency tracking (TA) mechanisms require transmission of “Always On” signals SS Burst Sets periodically followed by CSI-RS TRS in the remaining part of the frame stricture. During initial access process, the UE detects a preferred SS/PBCH beam at preferred receive beam. UEs with beam correspondence support can use the same receive beam to transmit PRACH after receiving SIB1 on the scheduled SS/PBCH time-frequency grids. When beam correspondence is not supported, the UE repeats PRACH transmissions in different directions and then listen for the network response using the same beam used to detect the SS/PBCH. From the initial access procedure, a default beam pair is established. After SS burst based synchronization, the UE can start synchronizing with gNB/TRP using SS Block configuration dependent CSI-RS signals. In large scale NR networks with thousands of gNB/TRPs deployed, system configurations derived manually using heuristic methodologies will directly impact the following aspects. a) High power consumptions in both network and UEs leading increased network CAPX and reduced UE battery life respectively and b) Degraded utilization of time-frequency resources affecting e2e spectral efficiency of the system. Issue is compounded by increase in IA latency and non-satisfactory reactive tracking performance KPI reports due to non-optimal configuration setting of large number of parameters available for SS bursts and CSI-RS TRS configuration supported in NR. UE could observe degraded tracking performances (and related other network KPIs) without appropriate CSI-RS planning. These are important network design aspects for massive MIMO systems with large carrier bandwidth and systems with carrier aggregation support where multiple BWPs are active with multiple time-frequency resource allocations for IA and TA reference signal transmissions. Typically, operators rely on skilled in the art manpower to suggest network wide configuration set which is prone to be sub-optimal. In addition to the demography, time dependent network usage parents have strong influence on designing optimal configuration sets which can lead to spectral and power efficient network design. We propose AI/ML assisted network-wide (multi-gNB/TRP) optimization framework wherein AI/ML agent/engine can infer optimal SS Burst Set, CSI-RS TRS configurations per gNB/TRP based on multiple time, location, and usage dependent observations which are already available at different nodes of the NR access and core network elements {E2 Nodes (O-DUs, O-CUs), O-RU, SMO}. Optimizer capability can be extended to derive configurations other reference signals configurations including UE specific CSI-RS acquisition, and DMRS as well with additional observations or training data for the AI/ML agent/engine. Joint optimizations are also definite possibility which can be considered as extension of the use cases mentioned in this document. One example is jointly optimizing SSB and CSI-RS for faster beam acquisition operation in mmWave FR2 system. At high-level goal of this class of optimization problem (involving SS Burst Set, CSI-RS, and DMRS) is to minimize reference signal transmissions based on 3GPP supported configuration/reconfigurations options available subject to constraints given below (not an exhaustive list): a) Target KPIs (like IA latency, TA estimation accuracy, reactiveness, channel estimation accuracy etc.) within the working limit suggested by the operator. b) Mobility and HO KPIs targets (operator inputs) which could be different in different parts of the network. c) Enable faster/reduced set beam search in connected mode improving RLF performance. d) Optimal CSI-RS and DMRS density for target parameter estimation accuracy (e.g., Mean Square Error metric). In the architecture/deployment options section, SS Burst Set optimization is used for Non-RT RIC framework and Near- RT RIC deployment framework is used for CSI-RS and DMRS configuration optimizations.

### 3.4.2 Architecture/Deployment Options
Option 1a: Non-RT RIC Based Training and Deployment (SS Burst Set

# 20 Configuration Optimization)
In this class of architecture/deployment option, raw training data gathering, pre-processing them to generate AI/ML model training data, offline AI/ML model training and deployment are performed in the SMO/Non-Real Time RIC entity. Raw training data set are collected from the TRP/gNB or cluster of deployed TRP/gNBs which constitute the large-scale network deployment. By default, heterogeneous deployment is assumed supporting various slow time varying usage patterns in different parts of the network. Offline trained AI/ML agent/engine will allow operator to deploy it in Non-RT-RIC (if necessary, in Near-Real Time RIC). AI/ML Agents can derive optimal per gNB/TRP configurations statically or semi-statically trigged by operator requirements or KPIs observations from the NR E2 nodes. It is expected that AI/ML engine/agent will generate same/similar inferences for a set of gNB/TRPs which are deployed at the same geographical neighbours having similar usage pattern (example set of gNB/TRPs deployed to support a busy street with moderate mobility). SMO needs to collect required observations sets over different observation time windows to generate required training data set which necessitates O1, E2 and FH interface capability enhancements. Interface capabilities can be made scalable future requirements to support any additional observations required over O1 and E2 interfaces which can help in faster convergence of AI/ML agent/engine.

# 4 Box "Personnel" #lightblue

# 5 Actor "Operator" as OPERATOR

# 6 End box

# 8 Box "Service Management and Orchestration" #gold

# 10 Participant "rAPP" as NRTRIC

# 11 End box

# 13 Box "O-RAN Nodes" #lightpink

# 14 Participant "E2-Nodes(O-CUs & O-DUs)" as E2NODES

# 15 Participant "O-RUs" as ORUs

# 16 End box

# 20 E2NODES -> SMO : <<O1>> Observation, Mesaurement Collection

# 21 OPERATOR -> SMO : Performance KPI Targets Inputs
end

# 27 SMO -> SMO : AI/ML Engine/Agent Training
end

# 32 SMO -> NRTRIC : <<R1>> Model Deployment

# 33 OPERATOR -> SMO : KPI Targets/Deployment Updates

# 34 SMO -> NRTRIC : <<R1>> Model Data
end end

# 39 SMO -> E2NODES : <<O1>> Measurement, Report Configuration

# 40 E2NODES -> SMO : <<O1>> Observation, Mesaurement Collection

# 41 SMO -> NRTRIC : <<R1>> Model Data

# 42 NRTRIC -> NRTRIC : AI/ML Agent/Engine Inference

# 43 NRTRIC -> SMO : <<R1>> Updated Optimal Configs

# 44 SMO -> E2NODES : <<O1>>Updated E2 Nodes Configurations

# 45 E2NODES -> ORUs : <<FH>> Updated O-RU Configurations
end

# 50 ORUs -> E2NODES : <<FH>> Data Collection

# 51 E2NODES -> SMO : KPIs, Measurment Report, Observations

# 53 SMO -> E2NODES : <<O1>> Default/Fallback mMIMO Configuration

# 54 E2NODES -> SMO : <<O1>> Observation, Mesaurement Collection

# 55 SMO -> SMO : AI/ML Agent/Engine Re-Training Trigger
end

# 58 @enduml
Figure 3.4.2.1-1. Flow diagram for SS Burst Set Configuration Optimization

# 3 Initialization:
Input/Output Data Interface Source → Name/Description Units Reporting New or existing config Target Period, granularity O1 via O-DU → Non- Supported SSB and CSI-RS TRS - Initializatio 3GPP TS38.331 SMO RT RIC configurations per cell n M-Plane O-RU → Non- Supported common beam configuration File Initializatio Existing via SMO RT RIC from O-RU per cell n O-RAN.WG5.MP Chapter 8 Open FH O-RU → O- Beamforming weights or attributes values Initializatio O-RAN.WG4.MP M-Plane DU via YANG module per cell in IE n Section 12.4.2 Open FH SMO → O- Inferred SSB beam configuration in file Initializatio O-RAN.WG4.MP M-Plane RU; O-DU → specified file per cell n Section 12.4.2 O-RU Open FH O-DU → O- SSB beam attributes per cell values Initializatio O-RAN-WG4.CUS CUS- RU in IE n Section 5.4.2 Plane Operator SMO → Non- Maximum Initial Access Latency ms Initialization KPI metric input by the I/F to RT RIC for given SSB Beam Configuration operator New KPI SMO

# 4 Table 3.4.2.1-1.
Measurements/reports from E2 Nodes over O1 interface (AI/ML model training phase): Input Data Interface Source → Name/Description Units Reporting New or existing Target Period, measurement, granularity Existing Specification (Section) O1 via O-DU → Non- SS reference signal received power dBm (non real- 3GPP TS 38.215 SMO RT RIC (SS-RSRP) per UE time, (Sec. 5.1.1) reported New reporting every 𝑇 * time 𝑊𝑖𝑛 window) O1 via O-DU → Non- CSI reference signal received power dBm (non real- 3GPP TS 38.215 SMO RT RIC (CSI-RSRP) per UE time, (Sec. 5.1.25) reported New reporting every 𝑇 * time 𝑊𝑖𝑛 window) O1 via O-DU → Non- UL SRS RSRP measurement per dBm (non real- 3GPP TS 38.215 SMO RT RIC UE time, (Sec. 5.2.5) reported New reporting every 𝑇 * time 𝑊𝑖𝑛 window) O1 via O-CU → Non- Number of active UEs in NG-RAN Integer (non real- 3GPP TS28.552 SMO RT RIC (Number of RRC_CONECTED time, Sections: 5.1.1.23 & A.60 UEs) per cell measured 3GPP TS28.552 A.7 and reported every 𝑇 * time 𝑊𝑖𝑛 window) O1 via O-CU → Non- Cell Specific Offsets (HO) defined dB (non real- 3GPP TS 28.331 SMO RT RIC within measObjectNR per neighbor time, (Sec. 5.3.4) cell reported New Reporting every 𝑇 * time 𝑊𝑖𝑛 window) O1 via O-DU → Non- PRACH correlation power for every dBm Non real- New Measurement SMO RT RIC received PRACH corresponding to each time, for (Could be derived active SSB Beam Index every SSB measurement at O-DU Beam Index (derived based on the existing RA-report defined reported in in RAN2, can be 𝑇 * time 𝑊𝑖𝑛 standardized in SA5) window New Reporting O1 via O-DU → Non- Received PRACH instance number and Integer Non real- 3GPP TS 28.552-h40, SMO RT RIC corresponding receive beam index time, for subclause 5.1.1.20/ TS every SSB 38.314-g40, subclause Beam Index 4.2.1.1 New Reporting reported in 𝑇 * time 𝑊𝑖𝑛 window O1 via O-CU → Non- Network accessibility KPI per cell Integer Non real- 3GPP TS 28.554 SMO RT RIC time, Section 6.2 reported every 𝑇 * time 𝑊𝑖𝑛 window O1 via O-CU → Non- DL/UL throughput/spectral Float Non real- 3GPP TS 28.554 SMO RT RIC efficiency per slice (kbit/se time, Section 6.3.2 and section c) reported 6.3.3 every 𝑇 * time 𝑊𝑖𝑛 window

# 10 RS configuration per gNB/TRP as inference.

# 11 Output Signalling towards E2 Nodes:
Output Data Interface Source → Name/Description Units Config. New or existing Target Period, config granularity O1 SMO → O-DU Inferred O-RU SS Burst Set (SS Block - Initialization, 3GPP TS38.331 Number and SS Burst Periodicity and per O-RU IE: CSI-RS TRS Configuration ServingCellConfigCommon

# 12 Table 3.4.2.1-4.

# 6 APIs and O1 interface (via SMO).
Impacts on O-RAN standards are identified below with the assumption that this is initial analysis report which is outcome of the massive MIMO pre-normative stage work. Captured impact analysis are based on latest published specifications of respective standards from identified O-RAN working groups.

# 10 WG1 (use cases, architecture) Impact
a) O-RAN.WG1 - Use Cases Analysis Report o Based on the decision from pre-normative stage include this new use cases in the massive MIMO optimization UCTG document for Initial Access (SS Burst set configuration) configuration optimization problem. b) O-RAN.WG1- Use Cases Detailed Specification o Update use case specific details for Initial Access (SS Burst set configuration) massive-MIMO optimization considering pre-normative and normative stage decisions.

# 18 WG2 (Non-RT RIC, R1) Impact
a) O-RAN.WG2 - Use Case Requirements o Based on the necessity add Initial Access (SS Burst) Massive-MIMO optimization use-case based on agreements from pre-normative phase. o No impact on A1 interface is identified ▪ AI/ML model training is done in SMO/Non-Real Time RIC and trained model deployment is done in No-Real Time RIC as rAPP. ▪ Generated inference is communicated to E2 nodes (O-CU/O-DU) over O1 interface. b) O-RAN.WG2 - AIML o No impact identified ▪ This use case is expected to be in line with standardized AI/ML workflow. c) O-RAN.WG2 - Non-RT RIC Architecture & O-RAN.WG2 O-RAN Non-RT RIC: Functional Architecture o No impact identified for the Non-Real Time RIC architecture and functional architecture specifications o Incorporate the changes (if any) for R1 interface between the rAPPs and the non-RT RIC framework functions for following two rAPP deployment aspects. ▪ Case 1: When AI/ML model is offline trained in SMO and deployed in Non-Real Time RIC as rAPP: Mechanism to deploy the model as rAPP over R1, inference communication over R1 and finally over O1 interface to E2 nodes (O-CU/O-DU) ▪ Case 2: Alternatively, when AI/ML model is offline trained and deployed in the rAPP itself: Investigate AI/ML flow support for initial model load, training data transport to rAPP and inference communication to O1 via R1.

# 40 ▪ Background information:
- SS Burst set configuration optimization AI/ML model is a micro service (rAPP)
running in the Non-Real Time RIC.

# 43 • Non-Real Time RIC framework handles rAPP LCM.
- For model training data and inference communication from and to E2 nodes over

# 45 O1 interface and M-plane interfaces are used.
- One of the feasible architectures is AI/ML model training in SMO or Non-Real
Time RIC framework and trained AI/ML model deployment is done as rAPP.
- Alternative architecture for model training and deployment model is both are
done in rAPP. R1 interface is used for model onboarding, training data set transport. Inference data communication via O1 interface within the current

# 3 WG3 (Near-RT RIC, E2) Impact
a) No impact identified

# 5 WG4 (CUS, M-Plane) Impact
a) No impact identified o Background information: ▪ Over M-Plane interface SMO communicates/receives supported O-RU SSB beam configurations. ▪ These configurations are preprocessed with observations, measurements, KPIs data received over O1 interface to generate training data set which is used for offline AI/ML model training.

# 13 WG5 (O1) Impact
a) O-RAN.WG5 - SMO - O-CU (O-RAN O1 Interface specification for O-CU-UP and O-CU-CP & O-RAN O1 Interface for O-CU-UP and O-CU-CP - YANG Models) ; SMO - O-DU (O-RAN O1 Interface specification for O-DU & O-RAN O1 Interface for O-DU 2.0 - YANG Models) o Enhance O1 data model yang definitions for new measurements/ observations reporting required for SS

# 18 Burst Set configuration optimization use case.
▪ Data models/structures required for new measurement reports to the Non-Real Time RIC via SMO. Refer to the requirement section of this use case. ▪ L1/2 measurements: Analyse need for new data model definition over NETCONF for per cell or per UE measurement reporting (refer to requirement section for new reporting requirements). ▪ Counters: Add new data model to accommodate Number of active UEs in NG-RAN (Number of RRC_CONECTED UEs) over a predefined observation time window. Based on the current understanding most of the measurements are specified in the 3GPP specifications except few like PRACH power measurement, which can be possibly derived based on the existing RA-reports thus can be proposed to 3GPP for standardized in SA5. New reporting will have to be incorporated into the O1 interface standard in terms of addition of new yang data models.

# 30 WG10 (O1) Impact
a) O-RAN.WG10 - O-RAN Operations and Maintenance Architecture & O-RAN Operations and Maintenance

# 32 Interface Specifications
o No impact identified on the OAM architecture o Impacts on the O1 interface to O-RAN elements are identified in WG5

# 35 ▪ Background information
- Include data model enhancements to the O1 interface definitions for new
measurements, observations required for SS Burst Set configuration optimization use case.

# 39 O-RAN Standard Impact Summary:
Impacts on O-RAN WGs is identified in the following areas:
- Introduce a set of new measurements/observations and reporting at O-DU and/or O-CU which are not
defined in O-RAN specification already. New measurement/reporting are indicated in the requirement section of the use case.
- Incorporate changes in R1 interface specification for the case when model onboarding and training of
AI/ML model is done in the rAPP microservice and,
- Implement potential changes to the O1 interfaces assuming other required KPIs are specified in 3GPP or

# 47 O-RAN standards.

# 10 Performance measurements E-UTRAN specification.
Thus, during the normative work phase, changes for the R1 and O1 interface need to be worked out with respective WGs. Similarly, for any 3GPP specification dependencies, appropriate steps should be taken based on the agreed O-RAN MVP-

# 13 C Massive MIMO Optimization normative stage discussions points.
Option 2a: Non-RT RIC Based Training and Near-RT RIC Deployment (DMRS and

# 16 CSI-RS Configuration Optimizations)
For the class of use cases where few TTI level reaction time is necessary (example use cases are configuration optimization for CSI-RS ports allocation for acquisition in DL and UL, UE specific DMRS allocation in DL or UL etc.), offline trained AI/ML model need to be deployed in Near Real-Time RIC. In this architecture/deployment option, raw training data gathering, pre-processing them to generate AI/ML model training data set, and offline AI/ML model training are performed in the Data collection and control/Non-Real Time RIC entity and trained model deployment happens in Near-RT RIC. Raw training data set are collected from the TRP/gNB or cluster of deployed TRP/gNBs which constitute the large-scale network deployment. By default, heterogeneous network deployment is assumed supporting various usage patterns in different parts of the network. Offline trained AI/ML agent/engine will allow operator to deploy it in Near-RT-RIC over O1 interface. AI/ML Agents can derive optimal per gNB/TRP configurations statically or semi-statically trigged by operator requirements or KPIs observations, measurements from E2 nodes. It is expected that AI/ML engine/agent will generate same/similar inferences for a set of gNB/TRPs which are deployed at the same geographical neighbours having similar usage pattern (example set of gNB/TRPs deployed to support a busy street with low to moderate mobility). Data Collection and Control Unit collects required observations sets over different observation time windows to generate required training data set which necessitates O1, E2, and FH interface capability enhancements. Interface capabilities can be made scalable for future requirements to support any additional observations required over O1 and E2 interfaces which can help in faster convergence of AI/ML agent/engine.

# 4 Box "Personnel" #lightblue

# 5 Actor "Operator" as OPERATOR

# 6 End box

# 8 Box "Service Management and Orchestration" #gold

# 9 Participant "Data Collection and Control" as SMO

# 10 Participant "Non-RT RIC" as NRTRIC

# 11 End box

# 13 Box "O-RAN Nodes" #lightpink

# 14 Participant "Near-RT RIC" as RTRIC

# 15 Participant "E2-Nodes" as E2NODES

# 16 Participant "O-RUs" as ORUs

# 17 End box

# 21 E2NODES -> SMO : <<O1>> Observation, Mesaurement Collection

# 22 OPERATOR -> SMO : Performance KPI Targets

# 23 Inputs
end

# 29 SMO -> NRTRIC : AI/ML Training Data

# 30 NRTRIC -> NRTRIC : AI/ML Engine/Agent Training
end

# 35 OPERATOR -> RTRIC : KPI Targets/Deployment Updates
end end

# 40 NRTRIC -> RTRIC : <<O1>> Model Deployment

# 42 SMO -> RTRIC : <<O1>> Traning Data (Optional)

# 43 E2NODES ->RTRIC : <<E2>> Measure Reports Collection

# 44 RTRIC -> RTRIC : AI/ML Agent/Engine Inference

# 46 E2NODES -> ORUs : <<FH>>Updated O-RU Configurations
end

# 51 E2NODES -> SMO : KPIs, Measurment Report, Observations

# 52 RTRIC -> SMO : <<O1>> ML Performance Feedback

# 53 ORUs -> E2NODES : <<FH>> Data Collection

# 55 SMO -> E2NODES : <<O1>> Default/Fallback mMIMO Configuration

# 56 E2NODES -> SMO : <<O1>> Observation, Mesaurement Collection

# 58 SMO -> NRTRIC : AI/ML Agent/Engine Re-Training Trigger
end

# 61 @enduml
Figure 3.4.2.2-1. Flow diagram for CSI-RS and DMRS Configuration Optimization

# 5 Requirements for CSI-RS and DMRS Configuration Optimization
a) DMRS Configuration Optimization: Required Observations for Training Data Set Generation

# 7 Initialization:
Input/Output Data Interface Source → Name/Description Units Config. Period, New or existing Target granularity config O1 O-DU → Non- Supported DMRS configuration per cell - Initialization 3GPP TS 38.331 Interface RT RIC (example for PDSCH, IE DMRS- via SMO DownlinkConfig, for PUSCH IE DMRS-UplinkConfig) per cell O1 O-DU → Non- Supported SRS configuration per cell - Initialization 3GPP TS 38.331 Interface RT RIC (SRS-Config IE) per cell via SMO

# 8 Table 3.4.2.2-1.
Measurements/reports from E2 Nodes over O1 interface (AI/ML model training phase): Input Data Interface Source → Name/Description Units Reporting New or existing Target Period, measurement, granularity Existing Specification (Section) O1 via O-DU → Non- SRS reference signal received dBm (non real-time 3GPP TS 38.215 SMO RT RIC power (SRS-RSRP) per UE for model (Sec. 5.1.19) training) New reporting O1 via O-DU → Non- gNB Rx – Tx time difference (SRS Sec (non-real time, 3GPP TS 38.215 SMO RT RIC based) per UE for model (Sec. 5.2.3) training) New reporting O1 via O-DU → Non- DMRS based SNR measurement at dB (non-real time, New measurement and SMO RT RIC O-DU per UE for model reporting training) O1 via O-DU → Non- CSI reference signal received power dBm (non real-time 3GPP TS 38.215 SMO RT RIC (CSI-RSRP) per UE for model (Sec. 5.1.2) training) New reporting O1 via O-CU → Non- Number of active UEs in NG-RAN Integer (non real-time, 3GPP TS28.552 SMO RT RIC (Number of RRC_CONECTED measured every Sections: 5.1.1.23 & UEs) per direction per cell 𝑇 𝑊𝑖𝑛 * time A.60 window) 3GPP TS28.552 A.7 O1 via O-CU → Non- Network accessibility KPI per cell Integer (non real-time, 3GPP TS 28.554 SMO RT RIC measured every Section 6.2 𝑇 * time 𝑊𝑖𝑛 window O1 via O-CU → Non- DL/UL network throughput per Float (non real-time, 3GPP TS 28.554 SMO RT RIC slice (kbit/se measured every Section 6.3.2 and c) 𝑇 * time section 6.3.3 𝑊𝑖𝑛 window O1 via O-DU → Non- DMRS/SRS based Doppler estimate Hz (non real-time, New measurement SMO RT RIC per UE measured every and reporting 𝑇 * time 𝑊𝑖𝑛 window

# 4 Output Signalling towards E2 Nodes:
Output Data Interface Source → Name/Description Units Config. New or existing Target Period, config granularity E2 Near-RT RIC → DMRS configuration per cell (example Index Configured 3GPP TS 38.331 O-DU for PDSCH, IE DMRS- every 𝑇> DownlinkConfig, for PUSCH IE 𝑇 𝑊𝑖𝑛−𝑅 DMRS-UplinkConfig) per cell

# 5 Table 3.4.2.2-4.
*𝑇 is the predefined observation time window for offline training data collection. 𝑊𝑖𝑛 *𝑇 is the predefined observation widow during inference generation, typically 𝑇 ≤ 𝑇 𝑊𝑖𝑛−𝑅 𝑊𝑖𝑛−𝑅 𝑊𝑖𝑛 (b) CSI-RS Configuration Optimization: Required Observations for Training Data Set Generation

# 3 Table 3.4.2.2-5.
Measurements/reports from E2 Nodes over O1 interface (AI/M model training phase): Input Data Interface Source → Name/Description Units Reporting New or existing Target Period, measurement, granularity Existing Specification (Section) O1 via O-DU → Non- SS reference signal received power dBm (non real- 3GPP TS 38.215 SMO RT RIC (SS-RSRP) per UE time for (Sec. 5.1.1) model New reporting training) O1 via O-DU → Non- CSI reference signal received power dBm (non real- 3GPP TS 38.215 SMO RT RIC (CSI-RSRP) per UE time for (Sec. 5.1.2) model New reporting training) O1 via O-DU → Non- CSI Reports UE specific Channel CSI (non-real 3GPP TS 38.214 SMO RT RIC Quality Index (CQI), Precoding matrix Report time (Sec. 5.2.2) indicator (PMI), Rank Indicator (RI) per collection New reporting UE for model training) O1 via O-DU → Non- PRACH correlation power for every dBm (non real- New Measurement SMO RT RIC received PRACH corresponding to each time (Could be derived active SSB Beam Index collection measurement at O-DU for model (derived based on the existing RA-report defined training) in RAN2, can be standardized in SA5) New Reporting O1 via O-DU → Non- Received PRACH instance number and Integer Non real- 3GPP TS 28.552-h40, SMO RT RIC corresponding beam index time, for subclause 5.1.1.20/ TS every SSB 38.314-g40, subclause Beam Index 4.2.1.1 within 𝑇 * time 𝑊𝑖𝑛 window O1 via O-CU → Non- Number of active UEs (mean, max) in Integer Reported SMO RT RIC NG-RAN (Number of every 3GPP TS28.552 RRC_CONECTED UEs) per direction 𝑇 𝑊𝑖𝑛−𝑅 * Sections 5.1.1.23 & A.60 per cell time 3GPP TS28.552 A.7 window O1 via O-CU → Non- Beam acquisition time per UE: UE msec (non real- New Measurement & SMO RT RIC reports beam measurement through CSI time, Report reports. gNB prepares an average beam measured acquisition time metric based on the per every UE CSI reports in stages P2/P3 𝑇 * time 𝑊𝑖𝑛 window O1 via O-CU → Non- DL/UL throughput per direction per cell Float (non real- 3GPP TS 28.554 SMO RT RIC (kbit/se time, Section 6.3.2 and section Spectral efficiency can be computed c) measured 6.3.3 from the throughput. every 𝑇 * time 𝑊𝑖𝑛 window

# 4 3.4.2.2.1 O-RAN WG Impact Analysis
This set of use case focus is on O1, M-Plane (via SMO) interfaces for observations, measurements, KPIs collection. O- RAN specified O1 interface is used for trained AI/ML model deployment as xAPP in Near-Real Time RIC. Inference is communicated to E2 nodes (O-CU/O-DU) using E2 interface. Impacts on O-RAN standards are identified below with the assumption that this is initial analysis report which is outcome of the massive MIMO pre-normative stage work. Captured impact analysis are based on latest published specifications of respective standards from the identified O-RAN working groups.

# 11 WG1 (use cases, architecture) Impact
a) O-RAN.WG1.Use Cases Analysis Report o Update the use case Massive MIMO Optimization - Non-Real Time RIC Training and Near Real Time RIC Deployment (CSI-RS and DMRS Configuration Optimization) considering pre-normative and normative stage decisions. b) O-RAN.WG1.Use Cases Detailed Specification o Update the use case details for Massive MIMO Optimization Non-Real Time RIC Training and Near Real Time RIC Deployment (CSI-RS and DMRS Configuration Optimization) considering pre- normative and normative stage decisions.

# 20 WG2 (Non-RT RIC, R1, A1) Impact
c) O-RAN.WG2 - Use Case Requirements o Add sub-use case details for the Non-Real Time RIC Training and Near Real Time RIC Deployment (CSI-RS and DMRS Configuration Optimization) considering pre-normative and normative stage decisions. d) O-RAN.WG2 - AIML o No impact identified ▪ This use case is expected to be in line with standardized AI/ML workflow. e) O-RAN.WG2 - Non-RT RIC Architecture & O-RAN.WG2 - Non-RT RIC ARCH TR o No impact identified for the Non-Real Time RIC architecture o Background information: ▪ CSI-RS and DMRS configuration optimization is an xAPP running in the Near-Real Time

# 32 RIC after training in Non-Real Time RIC

# 33 ▪ Near-Real Time RIC framework handles xAPP LCM.
▪ For model training data and inference communication from and to E2 nodes over O1 interface (via SMO) and M-plane interfaces are used. f) A1 Interface o No impact identified

# 13 RS in the E2 nodes.
i) O-RAN.WG3- Near-Real-time RAN Intelligent Controller Architecture & E2 General Aspects and

# 15 Principles
o No impact identified o Background information ▪ Offline trained AI/ML model is deployed as xAPP which uses Near-Real Time RIC services and E2 interfaces to a) get measurements, observations, PIs from the E2 Nodes for inference generation and b) configures DMRS or CSI-RS in the E2 nodes. j) O-RAN.WG3- Near-Real-time RAN Intelligent Controller, E2 Application Protocol o Add new measurements and reporting to the E2 interface from E2 nodes (O-CU/O-DU) to Near-Real Time RIC during inference generation and subsequent inference communication to E2 nodes. o Background information ▪ DMRS/CSI-RS optimization xAPP uses E2 interface to a) get measurements, observations, KPIs from the E2 Nodes for inference generation and b) configures DMRS/CSI-RS in the E2

# 27 Nodes.
k) O-RAN.WG3- Near-Real-time RAN Intelligent Controller E2 Service Model (KPM) o Enhance the interface for cell level KPM and other measurements used in CSI-RS and DMRS configuration optimization use cases during inference generation. l) O-RAN.WG3- Near-Real-time RAN Intelligent Controller E2 Service Model (Common, EC, NI) o Add new E2AP requirements for DMRS and CSI/RS o Identify definition of new E2SMs and required information models that may be required by for DM- RS and CSI-RS configuration use cases and reflect them the next version of standard ORAN-

# 35 WG3.E2SM.
▪ We also assuming all measurement are specified in 3GPP TS 28.552, 3GPP TS 28.554, 3GPP TS 38.215, 3GPP TS 38.214, TS 38 331, TS 37.320 and/or respective O-RAN standards

# 38 WG5 (O1) Impact
m) O-RAN.WG5 - SMO - O-CU (O-RAN O1 Interface specification for O-CU-UP and O-CU-CP & O-RAN O1 Interface for O-CU-UP and O-CU-CP - YANG Models); SMO - O-DU (O-RAN O1 Interface specification for O-DU & O-RAN O1 Interface for O-DU 2.0 - YANG Models) o Enhance the yang data models due to new measurement/observations reporting listed for CSI-RS and

# 43 DMRS configuration optimizations use cases requirement section
Based on the requirement section most of the measurements are specified in the 3GPP specification except couple of them like PRACH power measurement, DMRS based SNR measurement, Doppler, Beam acquisition time measurement etc. which need to be proposed to 3GPP for standardized in SA5. New reporting will have new data model definition on the O1 interface standard in terms of addition of new yang data models.

# 48 WG10 (SMO, O1) Impact
n) O-RAN.WG10 - O-RAN Operations and Maintenance Architecture & O-RAN Operations and Maintenance

# 50 Interface Specifications
o No impact identified

# 10 E2SM-KPM, O RAN.WG5.O-CU-O1, O-RAN.WG10.O1.

# 12 3.4.2.2.2 Relation and Impact on 3GPP Specification
UE- Specific Measurements and Reporting - From the requirement section, per UE measurements and reporting have to be added to the upcoming release (R17/18) of 3GPP standards (e.g., RAN2 MDT trace specification, 3GPP TS 28.552 and related standards). These new measurements will be also taken up in the upcoming AI/ML 3GPP RAN1 activities. PRACH power measurement be derived based on the existing RA-report defined in RAN2, thus can be proposed to 3GPP for standardized in SA5. Options 1b, 2b: E2 Node (O-CU) based AI/ML inference (Optimization of SS Burst

# 20 Set, DMRS and CSI-RS Configuration)
In this architecture option, the AI/ML model training might also be hosted in Non-RT RIC in case of SS Burst Set and in Near-RT RIC in case of DM-RS and CSI-RS configuration, but with the difference that the AI/ML model is deployed in the O-CU where the inference is executed. In contrast to the Non-RT RIC-based deployment (option 1 - SS Burst Set configuration optimization) or Near-RT RIC based deployment (option 2 - DMRS/CSI-RS configuration optimization), this deployment scenario presents the opportunity for optimization with faster loop timing or in different deployment architectures. While a Non-/Near-RT RIC based solution might be preferable to coordinate across multiple gNBs, a O- CU based inference solution might be preferred for disaggregated deployments where an O-CU controls a large number of O-DUs. Similarly, Non-/Near-RT RIC based solutions (option 1 or 2) might be preferred for slow loop timings while a O-CU based solution might be preferred for fast loop timings. Besides this difference, the same principles as previously described apply and the same performance gain can be expected. The configuration is assumed to be a rather slow process for SS Burst Set reconfiguration. DM-RS and CSI-RS might be reconfigured more dynamically, but there are probably no additional performance gains of an O-CU based inference over a Near-RT RIC based inference. Nevertheless, the O1/E2 load to continuously transfer data for inference will be reduced and the algorithm might have access to a larger number of configuration parameters when hosted at the O-CU. Therefore, the operator can leverage on the non-real time data collection capabilities of the O1/E2 interface (for offline ML training) plus the computational capacity (AI/ML framework) of the RIC(s) for ML training but perform the ML inference in the E2 Node. More specifically, the alternative architecture for SS Burst Set configuration optimization hosts ML training in the Non-Real Time RIC and inference in the E2 Node (O-CU) (Option 1b in Figure 3.4.2.3-1. middle). The alternative architecture for DMRS and CSI-RS configuration optimization hosts ML training in the Near- Real Time RIC and inference in the E2 Node (O-CU) (Option 2b in Figure 3.4.2.3-1. right). ML Deployment Scenario 1.5 (Technical Report O-RAN.WG2.AIML-v01.03) supports training in the Non-RT RIC and inference in the E2 Node. Training in the Near-RT RIC and inference in the E2 Node is a new deployment scenario still to be added to respective specifications. Related impact on O-RAN WGs is analyzed in section 3.4.2.3.1. 3GPP RAN WGs will start working on gNB hosted AI/ML algorithms in 3GPP Rel.18. More details are provided in 3GPP TR 37.817. This O-RAN architecture option introduced in this section will complement the 3GPP AI/ML approach (i.e. model hosted in E2 Node) with RIC based training capabilities and the ability to deploy a trained ML model in the E2 node. In both cases of ML training in Non- or Near-RT RIC, the ML model will be deployed via the O1 interface. This means in case of ML training in the Near-RT RIC, the trained ML model will be delivered from Near-RT RIC to SMO via O1 first and from SMO to E2 Node via O1 next. This ensures a common ML model deployment in the E2 nodes centrally controlled via the SMO. ML model training in the Near-RT RIC might be preferred in cases where the ML training relies on extensive RAN data provided via E2, which may not necessarily be available via O1. While Non-RT RIC training might be preferred for network specific ML models, Near-RT RIC might be preferred for cell specific ML models. A retraining of an existing network specific ML model with cell specific data in the Near-RT RIC can also be envisioned. Figure 3.4.2.3-1. Left: O-RAN deployment options 1a and 2a. Middle, right: Deployment options 1b and 2b with ML inference in the RAN E2 Node.

# 14 3.4.2.3.1 Additional O-RAN Standardization Impact

# 15 WG2 (Non-RT RIC, A1, R1) Impact

# 16 • O-RAN.WG2.AIML-v01.03
o Further specify deployment scenario 1.5, with training in the Non-RT RIC and inference in the E2 Node

# 18 (Option 2a).
o Specify a new deployment scenario with training (potentially for other than reinforcement ML tasks) in the Near-RT RIC, ML Model management in the Non-RT RIC, and inference in the E2 Node (Option

# 21 2b).

# 22 WG5 (O1) Impact / WG10 (SMO, O1) Impact

# 23 • No impact identified
o Trained ML Model transfer from Near-RT RIC to SMO as part of the ML Model management (Option

# 25 2b) – using file transfer.
o Trained ML Model deployment from SMO to O-CU as part of the ML Model management (Options 2a and 2b) – using file transfer.

# 3 Table 3.4.2.4-1.
As can be seen from Table 3.4.2.4-1, the architecture options target different deployments with different requirements on E2 capacity and may differ in terms of the optimization scope. This means both architecture options are viable options for SSB Burst Set, DM-RS and CSI-RS configuration optimization. The standard should not mandate the one or the other option, but it should be up to the vendor to make this decision on a per product basis. This leaves room for enhancements over time and for operators to choose different architectures for different deployment options.

### 3.4.3 Feasibility and Gain/Complexity Analysis

# 12 Feasibility and Gain Analysis
A. Near-RT RIC Deployment Architecture (SS Burst Set Configuration Optimization): This section we present calculated peak SE gain trends with varying SS Burst Configurations, discusses suitability of using AI/ML based optimization techniques for choosing deployment specific, slow time varying optimal SS Bust Set configurations. Also, highlighted tradeoff between choosing lower SS Burst Set configuration and achievable SE gains while meeting initial access latency KPI target set by the operator.

# 18 Goal of this discussion:
One aspect of presenting these results is to highlight the opportunity of significant SE gains when optimal configuration is chosen and applied to the gNB/TRP. Another aspect is to highlight the necessity of applying AI/ML based optimization techniques to these network performance optimization problems. AI/ML based optimization techniques are ideally suitable for 3GPP NR network optimization problems. More and more automations are expected with growing network deployment and optimization complexity. ML based intelligent agents are equipped to handle complex optimizations with trade-offs between long-term and short-term benefits. AI/ML processes learns autonomously, without the human intervention with domain expertise making them ideally suitable for time varying network function optimizations.

# 4 What result is presented:
Impact of SS Burst Set configuration optimization on system overhead resulting in gNB Spectral Efficiency gain and feasibility of using AI/ML techniques for such large parameter based constrained optimization problem. Presented results are peak spectral efficiency gain trends when different and allowable SS Burst Set configurations (Number of SS Blocks in a SS Bust Set and SS Burst Set periodicity) are chosen. Observed peak spectral efficiency (SE) gains are the result of system overhead reduction. Job of the AI/ML optimizer is to infer an optimal SS Bust Set configuration based on the target deployment scenario and slow time varying network usage patterns constrained to initial access latency target set by the operator. SE graphs are per gNB Peak SE results (ITU Document 5D/50-E 11 February 2020, 3GPP NR 38.336) for varying SS block number and SS Burst periodicity in 3GPP NR FR1 and FR2 systems with realistic parameters configurations ranges supported by 3GPP specifications for respective frequency bands. One can observe from the presented results below that SE gain is maximum when lowest SS Burst Set configuration is chosen for the system (within the configuration range supported by 3GPP). However, this would lead to degraded Initial Access (IA) latency KPI. Thus, we need to opt for constrained optimization techniques to avoid increase in IA latency beyond operator mentioned limit. Another important aspect of the optimizer is to consider slow time varying network usage pattern and time varying UE distribution patterns which can be inferred from the available measurements, observations, PIs. Thus, the optimizer will provide slow time varying SS Burst Set configuration per gNB/TRP which will result in system overhead reduction and hence can achieve optimal SE gain per gNB. AI/ML based constrained optimization techniques are ideally suitable for large-scale (multi-gNB/TRP) and multi-parameter constrained optimization problems and result in proactive and predictable solutions for realistic NR network deployment scenarios. Traditionally one fixed configuration is decided for the network by the skilled manpower and applied during deployment of the network hence results in inefficient network design. Tradeoff between SS Burst Set configuration optimization and SE improvement: Directly selecting the lowest SS Burst Set configuration (without considering the network usage pattern) to reduce reference signaling overhead will result in reduced SS Block density in both time and frequency directions. This may result in (a) increased initial access latency, (b) reduced mobility support (L3 mobility performance), (c) inferior time and frequency tracking performance, (d)potentially clustered access to the network (impacting the L1/2 beam management (for GoB based MIMO schemes), (d) reduced PBCH transmission frequency in SSB and hence impact timely availability of the system information blocks. Thus, the important role of an AI/ML optimization techniques is to constrain the SB Block optimization to meet KPI targets set by the operator. Example KPI based constrains are operator defined IA latency target and coverage, target mobility support by the network, beam management KPIs (tracking and acquisition performances). Inferences generated by the AI/ML engine will be usage dependent slow time varying configurations per gNB/TRP. Here optimization techniques should not exclude possibility of joint optimizations example SSB and CSI-RS when required.

# 3 1. FR2: BW = 100MHz, SCS =120KHz
2. BW = 90MHz FR1 (with 8 SS Block frequency domain multiplexing), 3. BW = 90MHz FR1 (with 12 SS Block frequency domain multiplexing), b) 1 gNB Peak SE computation c) 1 UE SU-MIMO in one sector d) Available DL antenna ports >= Max layers supported by 3GPP NR specs for target system configuration e) Cell reference signal configurations are given in ITU Document 5D/50-E 11 February 2020 1. NR FR2 System Configuration (DL): SS Burst Set Configuration Optimization

# 13 NR Numerology: FR2,

# 14 BW = 100MHz, SCS = 120KHz,

# 15 Maximum allocated number PRB = 66

# 16 Maximum modulation order = 8
{Minimum, Maximum} SS Block number per SS Burst Supported: {8, 64} Maximum number of layers in DL: 6 (1 UE, SU-MIMO) Max coding rate: 0.9258

# 20 SSBurst Set config optimization goals:
- Reduce Number of SS Blocks/SS Burst Set through KPI optimization

# 22 • Reduce frequency of SS Burst Sending
Figure 3.4.3.1-1. Computed SE variation plot with SS Block configuration change {SS Block number and SS

# 3 Burst Set periodicity}.
Achievable peak SE Improvement factor for the SSB resources saving ignoring potential performance degradation in this gNB is 200%. Results shows high SE improvement possibility in mmWave systems when optimal SS Block configuration is adopted in each gNB/TRP. Application of AI/ML will help in predictive and proactive inferences with reduced system overhead. 2. NR FR1 System Configuration (DL): SS Burst Set Configuration Optimization

# 10 System Numerology: FR1

# 11 BW = 90MHz, SCS = 30KHz,

# 12 Maximum allocated number PRB = 245

# 13 Maximum modulation order = 8
{Minimum, Maximum} SS Block number per SS Burst Supported: {1,8} Maximum number of layers in DL: 8 (1 UE. SU-MIMO) Multi-SS Block capability: 8 per slot (not shown in the figure) Max coding rate: 0.9258

# 18 SSB Config optimization goals:
- Reduce Number of SS Blocks/SS Burst Set by optimization

# 20 • Reduce frequency of SS Bust Sending
Figure 3.4.3.1-2. Spectral efficiency variation over SS Block number and SS Burst Set periodicity configurations plot for FR1 system with higher PRBs. Achievable peak SE Improvement factor for the SSB resources saving ignoring potential performance degradation in this gNB is ~16.4%. Results shows noticeable SE improvement possibility in FR1 system when optimal SS Block configuration is adopted in each gNB/TRP. Application of AI/ML will help in predictive and proactive convergence. 3. NR FR1 System Configuration (DL): SS Burst Set Configuration Optimization

# 10 System Numerology: FR1

# 11 BW = 90MHz, SCS = 30KHz,

# 12 Maximum allocated number PRB = 245

# 13 Maximum modulation order = 8
{Minimum, Maximum} SS Block number per SS Burst Supported: {1,8}

# 15 Maximum number of layers in DL: 8
Multi-SS Block capability: 12 per slot (not shown in the figure) Max coding rate: 0.9258

# 3 • Reduce frequency of SS Bust Sending
Figure 3.4.3.1-3. SE variation over SS Block number and SS Burst Set periodicity configuration for FR1 system with FDM in SSB transmission. SE plot shows significant gain (max 25.6%) can be achieved in FR1 systems having multi-SSB SSB transmission even when large PRBs are used for data transmission. Note that in this scenario the number of SSB transmissions in frequency domain multiplexing is increased to 12. Achievable peak SE Improvement factor for the SSB resources saving ignoring potential performance degradation in this gNB is ~25.6%. B. Use Case Motivation for Near-RT RIC Deployment Architectures: For Near-RT RIC based architecture/deployment scenario use-cases, goal is to optimize CSI-RS and DMRS transmission configurations and CSI reporting configurations where applicable. Based on the observations, measurements and KPI targets (training data) and using appropriate constrained optimization techniques, AI/ML model/agent will train the model for Near-RT RIC deployment. Deployed model can infer target usage specific optimal configurations for CSI-RS and DMRS which will minimize the system overhead and hence will provide SE gains. AI/ML inferred configuration are not necessarily the lowest configurations. In line with SSB use-case scenario, to create motivation around Near-RT RIC deployment-based use cases, below we have presented achievable peak Spectral Efficiency results for individual DMRS and CSI-RS transmission configuration optimizations. Presented SE graphs are per gNB Peak SE results (ITU Document 5D/50-E 11 February 2020, 3GPP NR 38.336) with varying (a) DMRS transmission configurations and (b) CSI-RS transmission configurations following 3GPP NR (FR1 and FR2) standards with realistic system parameter configurations for respective frequency bands. It is also important that both DMRS and CSI-RS optimization techniques can be jointly applied to the system for a target deployment scenario and use cases to achieve improved SE performance. a) DMRS Configuration Optimization: Example System Configuration NR FR1 NR FR2 BW & SCS 90MHz, 30KHz BW = 100MHz, SCS = 120KHz Maximum PRB Number 245 66 Maximum Modulation Order 8 8 SS Block number per SS Burst 8 64 SS Burst Set Periodicity 20ms 20ms SS Burst FDM 1 1 Maximum number of layers (DL) 6 6 Max coding rate 0.9258 0.9258 DMRS Type Type-1, Single Symbol Type-1, Single Symbol DMRS Density (#RE/RB/Slot) 6,12,18,24 6,12,18,24 Table 3.4.3.1-1. System configurations for FR1 and FR2 system to measure peak SE when DMIRS configuration is varied Plots for peak SE for FR1 and FR2 System. Figure 3.4.3.1-4. Peak SE variation over DMRS Density (#RE/RB/Slot) for Type 1, Single Symbol DMRS allocation for (a) FR1 and (b) FR2 systems with no FDM in SSB transmission. For both FR1 and FR2, peak SE plots from Figure 3.4.3.1-4 shows noticeable SE improvement can be achieved with the system configurations indicated in Table 3.4.3.1-1. For FR1 max SE gain 16.7% and for FR2 max can be achieved is approximately 27.3% assuming lowest DMRS configuration is used, resulting in resources saving ignoring potential performance degradation in this gNB. Directly configuring (without considering the network usage pattern) the lower configurations will degrade the channel estimation performance and related other parameter estimations accuracies, impact achievable throughput for higher mobility scenarios. Thus, one of the important jobs of the AI/ML engine is to take Operator's defined KPIs (parameter estimation accuracy targets, mobility support etc. which are usage dependent parameters), constrain the optimization to target KPIs from operator and infer suitable configurations. b) CSI-RS Configuration Optimization: Example System Configuration NR FR1 NR FR2 BW & SCS 90MHz, 30KHz BW = 100MHz, SCS = 120KHz Maximum PRB Number 245 66 Maximum Modulation Order 8 8 SS Block number per SS Burst 8 8 SS Burst Set Periodicity 5ms 5ms SS Burst FDM 12 3 Maximum number of layers (DL) 6 6 Max coding rate 0.9258 0.9258 DMRS Type Type-1, Single Symbol Type-1, Single Symbol DMRS Density (#RE/RB/Slot) 12 24 CSI-RS Density (#RE/RB/Slot) 32 8 CSI-RS Tx in every kth Slot 4 : 320 4 : 640 Table 3.4.3.1-2. System configurations for FR1 and FR2 system to measure peak SE when CSI-RS configuration is varied Plots for peak SE for FR1 and FR2 System. Figure 3.4.3.1-5. Peak SE variation over CSI-RS periodicity (#RE/RB/Slot) for (a) FR1 and (b) FR2 systems with

# 8 FDM in SSB transmission.
For both FR1 and FR2, peak SE plots from Figure 3.4.3.1-5 shows approximately 10% improvement can be achieved for the system with configurations as shown in Table 3.4.3.1-2. For FR1 max SE gain 10.84% and for FR2 max can be achieved is approximately 9.87% assuming lowest CSI-RS configuration is used which results in resources saving ignoring potential performance degradation in this gNB. For FR2 system, for the above peak SE plot, system uses number of SSB blocks as 8 and number of CSI-RS beams as 8 per SSB beam (joint SSB beam -CSI-RS beam acquisition). Directly configuring (without considering the network usage pattern) lower CSI-RS acquisition/beam management configurations may degrade the CSI feedback quality which has direct impact on the achievable throughput (FR1) or may impact beam measurement performance (FR2). Thus, one of the important jobs of the AI/ML engine is to take Operator's defined KPIs (CSI accuracy, beam acquisition KPIs) and constrain the optimization with the target KPIs and infer suitable configuration. 3GPP NR standard allows max 32 port CSI-RS transmission. It is important to note that SSB beam and CSI-RS optimizations are closely related when SSB and CSI-RS are jointly used for beam measurement in NR FR2 systems. In this case FR2 system will be limited by max 8 SS Blocks transmission per SS Burst and each SS beam will have 8 CSI- RS for P2 based beam measurement which is uses as scenario for SE calculations in Figure 3.4.3.1-5.

# 14 Complexity
Complexity of AI/ML based optimization depends on the type of algorithm used for the optimization, size of the training data set, feature list length. Computational power and memory availability of the model training and inference host will also impact training and inference generation time. Typical learning algorithms have large model training time complexity compared to inference generation. One example is with logistics regression based supervised learning algorithms, training phase time complexity is 𝑂(𝑝2𝑛+ 𝑝3) and during prediction time complexity is 𝑂(𝑝) where 𝑝 is the number of features and 𝑛 is the number of training example. Thus, offline training of the AI/ML model is desirable and recommended in all the sub sub-uses cases presented herein (namely SS Burst Set, CSI-RS, and DMRS configuration optimization use cases). Considering state of the art silicon technology availability in the network side we can assume that computation power (of the training and inference host) has improved significantly over last decade following Moor's Law, through multicore processor designs and parallel programming technology. Thus, large computation capacity at the model training and inference host are available for these optimizations' problems to run. Including training, inferences can be generated at rAPP (>=1sec) and Near-RT RIC (< 1sec) control loops efficiently with appropriate selection of training data sets size and feature list for AI/ML algorithms.

# 4 L1 / L2 Beam Management

## 4.1 Overview
In 5G NR, mmWave communication using a large bandwidth is one of the key technologies to achieve high-data rate and capacity improvement. However, mmWave frequencies are suffered from high propagation loss including unexpected signal blockages in a mobile environment. To overcome these challenges, directional-beam transmission enabled by hybrid analogue-digital beamforming with large scale antenna array is typically applied at BS side at least. Under this hybrid beamforming architecture, achieving fine beam alignment between BS and UE beams becomes a prerequisite for successful data transmission and reception. A set of Layer 1 (i.e., physical layer) and Layer 2 (i.e., medium access control layer) procedures to acquire and maintain a set of BS and/or UE beams for DL and UL transmission/reception is referred to as L1/L2 beam management. In 3GPP, the beam management procedures that control the determination and maintenance of the serving beam(s) for each UE within a cell has been firstly specified in Release 15. The O-RAN architecture offer opportunities to improve beam management performance by utilizing Non-RT RIC and/or Near-RT RIC to assist E2 nodes to realize intelligent solution.

## 4.2 Solution 1: AI/ML-assisted Beam Selection Optimization

### 4.2.1 Problem Statement and Value Proposition
The L1/L2 beam management procedures that establish and maintain the highly directional transmission link between BS and UE play an important role to enable high quality communications under mmWave frequencies. The current 3GPP 5G NR standard support good flexibility of UE-specific configuration in terms of beam measurement, beam report and beam indication. However, achieving accurate beam alignment between BS and UE is challenging and costly, and a trade-off between network performance improvement and signaling overhead need to be solved. Without employing frequent beam measurement and measurement report, connection between BS and UE may be easily interrupted due to UE movement or blockage, in particular under high mobility scenarios. However, the number of required resources for frequent beam measurement and measurement report will cause an overhead problem which may decrease the overall network throughput. Without an intelligent solution, the network has to face an either-or situation, either high reliability with large signaling overhead or small signaling overhead with poor reliability. In recent years, application of AI/ML techniques in mobile communication networks has drawn a lot of interest. AI/ML techniques can be also used as a powerful tool which enable RAN to make quicker and smarter decision in the beam management related procedures, which will contribute to improved network performance in terms of throughput and reliability. In particular, how to improve the performance of beam acquisition and tracking based on the existing 5G NR standard should be considered. AI/ML-assisted solutions can be used to estimate the quality of SSB/CSI-RS beams based on limited beam measurement and/or UE geolocation information, which allows fast beam acquisition and beam failure recovery and ensures reliable radio link against blockage, especially in mmWave. AI/ML-assisted solutions can also be used to predict a future beam(set), beam switching events or blockage events based on historical measurement reports and/or UE geolocation information. Higher accuracy in beam tracking, lower signaling overhead and low latency in beam switching are essential to guarantee service continuity for UEs. The L1/L2 beam management optimization is particularly relevant for mmWave frequencies but may also be applicable for sub-6GHz frequencies. Potential benefits of AI/ML assisted beam management will include signaling overhead reduction, latency reduction and reliability improvement.

### 4.2.2 Architecture/Deployment Options
Option 1 – Non/Near-RT RIC based Beam Selection Optimization To enable an intelligent beam management in the O-RAN architecture, interaction between SMO, Non-RT RIC, Near- RT RIC and E2 nodes should be achieved. SMO needs to collect necessary KPIs, beam-related measurement from E2 nodes and enrichment information (e.g., UE geolocation information) from external application/server, if required, to support AI/ML model training and performance monitoring which is hosted by Non-RT RIC. In this case, Non-RT RIC can train the AI/ML model for beam management optimization based on beam-level measurements collected by UE measurement report and/or drive test and decide whether to re-train/fine-tune the AI/ML model based on the performance monitoring. Then the trained AI/ML model can be deployed to Near-RT RIC via O1 interface for beam management related inference. The AI/ML model training and inference to support beam management optimization can be done for different objectives, such as, to reduce beam measurement overhead and to improve the connection reliability, depending on implementation and operator’s requirements. The beam management optimization for different objectives can follow the general process as shown below.

# 6 Box “Service Management and Orchestration” #gold

# 7 Participant CC as “Collection & Control”

# 8 Participant NON as “Non-RT RIC”

# 9 End box

# 11 Box “O-RAN” #lightpink

# 12 Participant NEAR as “Near-RT RIC”

# 13 Participant RAN as “E2 Nodes”

# 14 End box

# 16 Box “External” #lightcyan

# 17 Participant AS as “Application Server”

# 18 End box

# 22 RAN -> CC : <<O1>>Data collection

# 24 CC -> AS : Request enrichment information
end

# 27 CC -> NON: Retrieval of collected data
end

# 31 NON -> NON : AI/ML model training

# 32 NON -> NEAR : <<O1>>Deploy AI/ML model
end

# 36 CC -> AS : Request enrichment information

# 38 CC -> NON : Retrieval of collected data

# 39 NON -> NEAR : <<A1>>Enrichment information (UE position)
end

# 44 RAN -> NEAR : <<E2>>Data collection

# 45 NEAR -> NEAR : AI/ML model inference

# 47 NEAR -> RAN : <<E2>>Control or policy message
end

# 51 CC -> RAN : <<O1>>Request data collection

# 52 RAN -> CC : <<O1>>Data collection

# 54 CC -> AS : Request enrichment information
end

# 57 CC -> NON : Retrieval of collected data

# 58 NON -> NON : Performance monitoring and evaluation

# 60 NON -> NEAR : <<O1>>Update AI/ML model
62 end

# 63 @enduml
Figure 4.2.2.1-1. Flow diagram for Non/Near-RT RIC based Beam Selection Optimization An intelligent solution can be designed and implemented to optimize the beam selection for different objectives. For example, to guarantee the service continuity and eliminate the need for frequent beam measurement, especially for high- mobility UE, the xApp deployed in Near-RT RIC can performs AI/ML model inference to support predictive beam switching. Specifically, the AI/ML model could be utilized to predict the changing trend of beams quality in future, which can help BS to perform proactive beam switching or determine a “high-probability” candidate beam set for further measurement. The process to support this example could be as follows,
- The E2 Node (O-DU) receives the following information from the UE
o Periodic beam measurements (including L1-RSRP with corresponding CRI or SSBRI) which provide indication of the UE’s best beam ▪ Data regarding beam switch events for UEs which provides predictive intelligence on future beam switching events o Beam failure indications ▪ Data regarding beam failure events which provides intelligence on beam-switching events to potentially be avoided
- E2 Node provides consolidated measurements and data to the Near-RT-RIC and the Non-RT-RIC (through

# 4 SMO)
- Non-RT-RIC obtains other enrichment information (such as UE position and velocity) from an application server
- AI/ML model in Non-RT-RIC is trained based on measurement and enrichment data from (potentially) many E2

# 7 Nodes

# 8 • Non-RT-RIC provides AI/ML model update to Near-RT-RIC
- Using the AI/ML model, the Near-RT-RIC provides control information to the E2 Node, specific to a particular
UE, based on the UE’s historical beam measurement reports, as well as other possible enrichment information.

# 11 The control information could include
o New serving beam for UE, or a sequence of future serving beams each with time offsets o Updated beam measurement set for UE

# 15 Requirements
Measurements/reports from E2 Nodes (for AI/ML model training and performance evaluation): Input Data Interface Source → Name/Description Units Reporting New or existing Target Period measurement/repo rting specification O1 (via O-DU → L1-RSRP measurement at UE- dBm ~x hours/days Existing definition: SMO) level (in the form of sequence) per cell 3GPP TS 38.214 Non-RT RIC (Sec. 5.2.1.4.3) (for training) 3GPP TS 38.215 (Sec. 5.1.1 and 5.1.2) New reporting O1 (via O-DU → L1-SINR measurement at UE- dB ~x hours/days Existing definition: SMO) level (in the form of sequence) per cell 3GPP TS 38.214 Non-RT RIC (Sec. 5.2.1.4.4) (for training) 3GPP TS 38.215 (Sec. 5.1.5 and 5.1.6) New reporting O1 (via O-DU → CSI-RS Resource Indicator (CRI) Index ~x hours/days Existing definition: SMO) and SS/PBCH Block Resource per cell 3GPP TS 38.214 Non-RT RIC Indicator (SSBRI) at UE-level (in (Sec. 5.2.1) the form of sequence) (for training) New reporting O1 (via O-DU → Average DL UE throughput in Kb/s ~x hours/days Existing definition SMO) gNB per cell and reporting: Non-RT RIC 3GPP TS 28.552 (for (Sec. 5.1.1.3.1) performance evaluation) O1 (via O-DU → Wideband CQI distribution Integer ~x hours/days Existing definition SMO) per cell and reporting: Non-RT RIC 3GPP TS 28.552 (Sec. 5.1.1.11.1) (for performance evaluation) O1 (via O-DU → MCS distribution in PDSCH Integer ~x hours/days Existing definition SMO) per cell and reporting: Non-RT RIC 3GPP TS 28.552 (for (Sec. 5.1.1.12.1) performance evaluation) O1 (via O-DU → Optional: Beam failure statistics Count/ ~x hours/days New definition and SMO) per cell or per beam percent per cell reporting Non-RT RIC (for performance evaluation)

# 3 Measurements/reports from E2 Nodes (for AI/ML model inference):
Input Data Interface Source → Name/Description Units Reporting New or existing Target Period measurement/repo rting specification E2 O-DU → L1-RSRP measurement per UE dBm ~per N x 100ms Existing definition: 3GPP TS 38.214 Near-RT RIC (Sec. 5.2.1.4.3) 3GPP TS 38.215 (Sec. 5.1.1 and 5.1.2) New reporting E2 O-DU → L1-SINR measurement per UE dB ~per N x 100ms Existing definition: 3GPP TS 38.214 Near-RT RIC (Sec. 5.2.1.4.4) 3GPP TS 38.215 (Sec. 5.1.5 and 5.1.6) New reporting E2 O-DU → CSI-RS Resource Indicator (CRI) Index ~per N x 100ms Existing definition: and SS/PBCH Block Resource 3GPP TS 38.214 Near-RT RIC Indicator (SSBRI) per UE (Sec. 5.2.1) New reporting

# 4 Table 4.2.2.1-2.

# 5 Enrichment information from application server

# 6 1. UE position

# 7 2. UE velocity
The time granularity of these data collections should be configurable and satisfy the requirements of the AI/ML model

# 4 ORAN Entity roles:

# 5 1) SMO
a) Collect necessary KPIs, measurement reports and enrichment information (e.g., UE position) from E2 nodes and application server. b) Send collected data to Non-RT RIC for AI/ML model training and performance monitoring.

# 9 2) Non-RT RIC
a) Retrieve necessary KPIs, measurement reports and enrichment information (e.g., UE position) from SMO for purpose of constructing/training relevant AI/ML models and performance monitoring. b) Monitor performance of the AI/ML models based on the KPIs retrieved from SMO and decide whether to re- train/finetune and update the AI/ML models or not. c) Train the relevant AI/ML models using the retrieved data. d) Support deployment and update of the AI/ML models into Near-RT RIC over O1 interface. e) Support communication of policies and enrichment information to Near-RT RIC over A1 interface.

# 17 3) Near-RT RIC
a) Support deployment, update and execution of the AI/ML models from Non-RT RIC. b) Support interpretation and execution of the policies from Non-RT RIC. c) Collect necessary measurement reports from E2 nodes for the purpose of AI/ML model inference over E2 interface. d) Retrieve enrichment information from Non-NT RIC over A1 interface. e) Send control or policy message for beam management operation to E2 nodes.

# 24 4) E2 nodes
a) Support data collection with required granularity to SMO and Near-RT RIC over O1 and E2 interface. b) Apply L1/L2 beam management parameter configuration based on the control or policy message received from

# 27 Near-RT RIC.
Option 2 – E2 Node (O-DU) based Beam Selection Optimization L1/2 beam management includes a large number of very fast real time functions closely related to the uplink and downlink scheduling in the baseband. The NR L2 scheduling working operates at Transmission Time Interval even lower than 1ms depending on the numerology. It is one of the most demanding and time critical function of the base station that, depending on the bandwidth, will have to handle transmission of multiple GBytes of data traffic. Examples of L1/L2 beam management use cases are beam sweeping, beam measurements, beam reporting, beam acquisition, beam pairing, beam refinement, beam switching, beam indication, beam recovery. Some beam management features may require operating in a faster loop timing than what the E2 loop between Near-RT RIC and E2 Node (e.g, O-DU) allows. Still, AI/ML assisted techniques could achieve substantial gains with acceptable computational costs. In some cases, the ML model might carry intelligence with a local scope, i.e., it adapted to patterns of a single cell on which it was trained. Therefore, in another deployment option, the operator can leverage on the data collection capabilities of the E2 interface (for ML training) plus the computational capacity (AI/ML framework) of the RIC(s) for ML training, but perform the ML inference in the E2 Node, e.g., in the O-DU (Figure 4.2.2.2-1. middle). ML Deployment Scenario 1.5 (Technical Report O-RAN.WG2.AIML-v01.03) supports training in the Non-RT RIC and inference in the E2 Node. Training in the Near- RT RIC and inference in the E2 Node is a new deployment scenario still to be added to respective specifications (Figure 3.4.2.3-1. right). Related impact on O-RAN WGs is analyzed in sections [FFS]. 3GPP RAN WGs will start working on gNB hosted AI/ML algorithms in 3GPP Rel.18. More details are provided in [FFS: 3GPP TR 37.817]. This O-RAN architecture option introduced in this section will complement the 3GPP AI/ML approach (i.e. model hosted in E2 Node) with RIC based training capabilities and the ability to deploy a trained ML model in the E2 node. Figure 4.2.2.2-1. Left: O-RAN deployment Option 1 with both training and inference in the Near-RT RIC. Middle and right: Deployment Options 2a and 2b with ML inference in the RAN node (O-DU) for faster control loop.

# 26 4.2.2.2.1 Additional O-RAN Standardization Impact

# 27 WG2 (Non-RT RIC, A1, R1) Impact

# 28 • O-RAN.WG2.AIML-v01.03
o Further specify deployment scenario 1.5, with training in the Non-RT RIC and inference in the E2 Node

# 30 (Option 2a).
o Specify a new deployment scenario with training (potentially for other than reinforcement ML tasks) in the Near-RT RIC, ML Model management in the Non-RT RIC, and inference in the E2 Node (Option

# 33 2b).

# 4 2b) – using file transfer.
o Trained ML Model deployment from SMO to O-DU as part of the ML Model management (Options

# 6 2a and 2b) – using file transfer.

# 8 Discussion of Architecture Options

# 9 Comparing architecture deployment options 1 and 2:
Option 1 Option 2 ML Training location Non-/Near- RT RIC Non-/Near-RT RIC ML Inference location Near-RT RIC E2 Node E2 capacity requirements high capacity & continuous flexible capacity & temporary (ML training & inference) (only for ML training) E2 delay requirements delay critical not delay critical (offline training) Processing capabilities higher capacity possible capacity limited Control loop supported slower faster Scheduler integration of fast difficult easier algorithms Model complexity and more complex models more simple models optimization scope (incl. multi-cell optimization) (mostly single cell optimization)

# 10 Table 4.2.2.3-1.
As can be seen from Table 4.2.2.3-1, the two architecture deployment options target different use cases, have different strengths and weaknesses. Requirements on gNB processing and on E2 delay and capacity are quite different. The same problem might be addressed with a single cell optimization or a multi-cell optimization, with a more or less complex ML model. While the realization of L1/2 beam management algorithms might sometimes be limited to one of the options (e.g. due to delay or interface constrains), some algorithms might also possibly be realized with both options. Considering that L1/2 beam management techniques are very fast algorithms tightly integrated in the L2 scheduler design, it will be the vendor that evaluates the gain versus the complexity. While a small cell may have very limited processing and backhaul capabilities, a macro base station site might have such capability. This means both architecture options are viable options for L1/2 beam management algorithms and may even co-exist. The standard should not mandate the one or the other option, but it should be up to the vendor to make this decision. This leaves room for enhancements over time and for operators to choose different deployment options.

### 4.2.3 Impact Analysis on O-RAN Working Groups
Editor’s note: This is an initial impact analysis as part of the WG1 UCTG work on mMIMO. The intention is to estimate the expected standardization effort within the O-RAN working groups. It is up to the WGs to decide how the mMIMO functionality should be specified in specifications of each WG.

# 5 WG1 (use cases, architecture) Impact

# 6 • O-RAN.WG1.Use-Cases-Analysis-Report
o Update use case 6: Massive MIMO Beamforming Optimization (Section 3.6)

# 8 • O-RAN.WG1.Use-Cases-Detailed-Specification
o Update use case 6: Massive MIMO Beamforming Optimization (Section 3.6)

# 10 WG2 (Non-RT RIC, A1) Impact

# 11 • O-RAN.WG2.Use-Case-Requirements
o If seen as beneficial, add new use case 6: Massive MIMO Beamforming Optimization based on agreements from pre-normative phase

# 14 • O-RAN.WG2.A1TD
o Support exchange of relevant Enrichment Information from Non-RT to Near-RT RIC

# 16 WG3 (Near-RT RIC, E2) Impact

# 17 • O-RAN.WG3.UCR
o If seen as beneficial, add new use case 6: Massive MIMO Beamforming Optimization based on agreements from pre-normative phase

# 20 • O-RAN.WG3.E2SM-KPM
o For cell-level measurements that are specified in 3GPP (i.e. 3GPP TS 28.552), there would be minor or no direct specification impact. The optional new beam failure statistics might be specified in 3GPP or in O-RAN (FFS). o For UE-level L1/L2 measurements ▪ Option 1: If UE-level L1/L2 measurement reporting is added to the 3GPP specification (e.g. 3GPP TS37.320), E2 could refer to 3GPP specification and there will be minor or no direct specification impact. ▪ Option 2: If UE-level L1/L2 measurement reporting is not added to the 3GPP specifications, O-RAN specific reporting need to be added. Given that measurement definitions already exist in 3GPP, the impact will be minor (noting that E2SM-KPM has already extended the definitions of measurement counters in TS 28.552 to be able to be retrieved per UE level from

# 32 RAN node).

# 33 • O-RAN.WG3.E2SM-RC or creation of new E2SM
o Add new control/policy related to beam management operation

# 35 WG5 (O1) Impact

# 36 • O-RAN.WG5.MP
o For cell-level measurements that are specified in 3GPP (i.e. 3GPP TS 28.552), there would be minor or no direct specification impact. The optional new beam failure statistics might be specified in 3GPP or in O-RAN (FFS). o For UE-level L1/L2 measurements ▪ Option 1: If UE-level L1/L2 measurement reporting is added to the 3GPP specification (e.g. 3GPP TS37.320), O1 could refer to 3GPP specification and there will be minor or no direct specification impact. ▪ Option 2: If UE-level L1/L2 measurement reporting is not added to or re-used from the 3GPP specifications, O-RAN would add reporting of these as an extension of O1. Given that measurement definitions already exist in 3GPP, the impact will be moderate, Summary: The overall impact on O-RAN specifications is limited, since all the measurement definitions are already defined in 3GPP. There is a new cell level measurement beam failure statistic suggested that is optional. The detailed impact might further depend on if required enhancements of measurement reporting (especially UE-level L1/L2 measurements) will be specified in 3GPP or O-RAN specifications. There might be some common parts on specification impact among different sub-features, which may further reduce the overall workload in the normative phase.

### 4.2.4 Relation and Impact on 3GPP Specification
In 3GPP, the beam management procedures that control the determination and maintenance of the serving beam(s) for each UE within a cell has been firstly specified in Release 15 and further enhanced in Release 16 and 17. The existing 3GPP standard already support good flexibility of UE-specific configuration in terms of beam measurement/reporting, beam indication and beam failure recovery with regard to fundamental beam-based transmission/reception. To support the L1/L2 beam management optimization in O-RAN would mainly rely on the existing 3GPP standards, and the detailed impact is listed as below,

# 12 Data collection:
- Cell-level measurements: The definition and reporting of essential measurements is already existing in 3GPP
specification (3GPP TS 28.552). Whether and how to support the new measurements which is not essential could be FFS.
- UE-level L1/L2 measurements: The measurements definition is already existing in 3GPP specifications, and the
measurements reporting might be added to the existing 3GPP MDT framework (3GPP TS 37.320) or might be added in a new AI/ML Data Collection framework currently discussed in 3GPP. Whether rely on 3GPP or introduce O-RAN specific reporting could be FFS.

# 20 Configuration/Control:
- The control will rely on the existing control signaling (3GPP TS 38.331/38.321)

### 4.2.5 Feasibility and Gain/Complexity Analysis
In mmWave bands, supporting good reliability of connectivity for high mobility UE is challenging. The network needs to rely on frequent beam measurement to track the rapid change of wireless channel, which will require significant signaling overhead. However, UEs with high mobility move along relatively fixed trajectory in many cases. For example, a vehicle traveling at high speed mostly will not suddenly change its driving direction. Therefore, although the optimal beam changes rapidly under the UE’s high-speed movement, the trend of change is predictable. The xApp deployed in Near-RT RIC can be used to perform AI/ML model inference to predict the changing trend of beams quality in future, which can help BS to reduce the frequency of beam measurements and/or reduce the number of measured beams.

# 32 Simulation Results
The following part of this section presents the simulation results which show the benefits of beam prediction under an urban street scenario (depicted in Figure 4.2.5.1-1). Within the simulation, vehicular UEs moving along the urban street which is served by one BS, and the BS periodically sends reference signals on all the candidate beams to UE for beam measurement. In the case of the conventional beam switching solution, which is reactive, the BS will configure serving beam for UE according to the most recent beam measurement result. In the case of the AI/ML-based beam solution, which is proactive, the optimal serving beams (i.e., beams sequence with time offset) before the next time of beam measurement can be predicted accurately in advance based on the historical beam measurement report, so that the BS can configure serving beams for UE by following this prediction. The simulation assumptions and results are shown in Table 4.2.5.1-1 and Figure 4.2.5.1-2 respectively. Figure 4.2.5.1-1. Vehicular UEs moving along the urban street in both directions Parameter Value Frequency band 28 GHz Bandwidth 100 MHz BS Trans. power 33 dBm BS height 6 m BS antenna configuration (M x N) x 16 antennas Beam set configuration 64 beams uniformly distribute in horizontal with 5 degrees down tilt Beam measurement period 50/500/1000 ms Beam measurement report Best beam index with L1-RSRP UE velocity 60km/h Mobility model UEs moving along the urban street in both directions (moving trajectory is randomly generated with different starting/end point) Channel model Generated by ray-tracing based simulator

# 5 Table 4.2.5.1-1. Simulation assumptions

# 12 95% compared to the conventional solution.
It is worth noting that the performance of simulated AI/ML-based solution do not sensitive to the latency introduced by E2 interface and/or E2-nodes/RIC processing time because the solution does not rely on very fast control loop.

# 5 Non-GoB Beamforming

## 5.1 Overview
Non-GoB Beamforming, unlike GoB beamforming, does not rely on predefined beam sets, instead beam weights are determined in real-time at the BS in response to channel measurements, offering the potential for optimum beam patterns to be determined. For downlink, this approach relies on reciprocity in the channel and is therefore primarily aimed at TDD systems. How well the system performs in practice depends on several factors including choice of beamforming algorithm, the channel conditions between BS and UE and the configuration of reference signals. The O-RAN architecture offer opportunities to improve the beamforming performance by utilizing both Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC to support intelligent optimization of the Non-GoB beamforming configuration.

## 5.2 Solution 1: AI/ML-assisted non-GoB Optimization

### 5.2.1 Problem Statement and Value Proposition
Non- Grid of Beams (non-GoB) beamforming approaches are an important class of beamforming algorithms for 5G mMIMO deployments, especially for fully digital, but also potentially for hybrid analog/digital, implementations in sub- 6GHz frequency bands. Typically Sounding Reference Symbol (SRS) based approaches are used, which rely on uplink/downlink correspondence, where uplink and downlink beam weights are computed “on the fly” in the O-DU / gNB based on channel measurements made using SRS, rather than selecting from a set of predefined beams. The calculated weights are transferred from O-DU / gNB to the O-RU using existing fronthaul mechanisms. SRS based beamforming is particularly attractive for massive MIMO arrays because accurate channel state information can be obtained at the gNB with potentially less overhead in the DL or UL channels. gNB uplink SRS measurements generally have no quantization loss associated with reduction of over the air signaling and are faster availability for downlink adaptation since measurement is done in gNB. On the other hand, SRS measurements might not always be recently available (due to SRS periodicity and/or limited bandwidth), or reliable, especially towards cell edge since the UE transmit power in the uplink is limited. It should be noted that non-GoB algorithms are not standardized, instead these are vendor-specific proprietary algorithms. In addition, multiple algorithm modes or options may be implemented, where some modes may be more suited to particular conditions of the wireless channel, UE location/mobility, interference conditions, or to particular 3GPP configuration options such as SRS periodicity. Examples of beamforming modes include but are not limited to: the use of different SRS channel estimation algorithms; different weight calculation approaches (for example matched filter, Eigen, Zero-forcing beamforming); and different time or frequency granularity. Non-GoB beamforming may be applicable to multiple MIMO modes (SIMO, SU-MIMO or MU-MIMO) on the downlink or uplink data channels (PDSCH/PUSCH). GoB beamforming will be used for other channels and may also be used for data channels in some cases where, for example, SRS measurement quality is poor. The problem statement is therefore how a 3rd-party xApp may provide intelligent control over multiple supported non- GoB beamforming modes in order to recommend a preferred mode to a gNB / O-DU as a function of channel conditions,

# 36 UE location, interference conditions, etc.

### 5.2.2 Architecture/Deployment Options

# 14 O1.
The reported information could be as simple as the number of modes supported (=N). The modes are defined by the gNB / O-DU vendor. Optionally, there could be additional information provided, such as the circumstances in which use of each of the N modes is considered (by the gNB / O-DU) to be suitable (for example low or high mobility, low, medium or high SNR on (for example) SRS), which is illustrated in Table 5.2.2.1-1. Mode ID UL or DL SNR range UE Mobility (low/med/high) (stationary/low/high) : N-1

# 21 Table 5.2.2.1-1.
GoB-based approaches could be included as supported modes, thus enabling switch between non-GoB and GoB operation where conditions favor GoB (for example at cell-edge). Next, the Data Collection phase is entered, where non-RT RIC requests data collection from O-DU, again using O1 via the “Collection and Control” function. The O-DU responds with measurements over O1, such as SINR, the measurements being associated with each of the N beamforming modes (labelled “associated non-GoB mMIMO config” in the diagram). Specific measurements defined in 3GPP 28.522 may be re-used, for example, for downlink operation: Average DL UE throughput in gNB; Wideband CQI distribution; RSRQ measurement; RSRP measurement; SINR measurement. Information related to 3GPP configuration, such as SRS periodicity, is also reported. During the data collection phase, enrichment data, such as information related to UE location and mobility, may also be collected from an Application Server. The non-RT RIC associates enrichment data with the corresponding O-DU measurements, such that both are available for each UE. In the next step, the non-RT RIC trains AI/ML model(s) which will be used to predict relative performance between the N modes (or simply to predict the best mode) and deploys the trained models in xApp to near-RT RIC (over O1 or O2 – to be determined by O-RAN). Finally, models may be re-trained and re-deployed based on updated measurements sent between O-DU and non-RT RIC (via the “Collection and Control” entity) and on updated enrichment information.

# 6 Box “Service Management and Orchestration” #gold

# 7 Participant “Collection & Control” as smo

# 8 Participant “Non-RT RIC” as non

# 9 End box

# 11 Box “O-RAN” #lightpink

# 12 Participant near as “Near-RT RIC”

# 13 Participant ran as “O-DU”

# 14 End box

# 16 Box “External” #lightcyan

# 17 Participant “Application Server” as app

# 18 End box
end end end end

# 49 @enduml

# 6 Box “Service Management and Orchestration” #gold

# 7 Participant “Collection & Control” as smo

# 8 Participant “Non-RT RIC” as non

# 9 End box

# 11 Box “O-RAN” #lightpink

# 12 Participant near as “Near-RT RIC”

# 13 Participant ran as “O-DU”

# 14 End box

# 16 Box “External” #lightcyan

# 17 Participant “Application Server” as app

# 18 End box
end

# 33 @enduml

# 37 Figure 5.2.2.1-2. AI/ML Inference

# 3 Initialization:
Input/Output Data Interface Source → Name/Description Units Config. Period, New or Target granularity existing config O1 via Non-RT RIC → Supported Non-GoB beamforming modes - Initialization, per gNB New SMO O-DU Request O1 via O-DU → Non- Supported Non-GoB beamforming modes - Initialization, per gNB New SMO RT RIC Response

# 4 Table 5.2.2.1-2.

# 6 Training configuration:
Input/Output Data Interface Source → Name/Description Units Config. New or existing config Target Period, granularit y O1 via Non-RT RIC → Training configuration * ~ New SMO O-DU hours/days, per gNB

# 7 Table 5.2.2.1-3.
Note*: to be elaborated during normative phase. One example is a schedule for the use of each beamforming mode for use during the training phase.

# 5 Enrichment data from Application Server:

# 6 1. UE mobility (speed and direction)

# 7 2. UE location
3. The time granularity is an integer multiple of [1] second.

# 3 ORAN Entity roles:

# 4 1) SMO
a) Support O1-based Request and Report of O-DU supported non-GoB mMIMO configurations (beamforming modes) b) Support O1-based Configuration and Collection of Training Measurement data / SRS configuration from O-

# 8 DU
c) Enrichment Data Collection

# 11 2) Non-RT RIC
a) Issue Request and receive Report of O-DU non-GoB beamforming modes from O-DU through SMO b) Configuration and retrieval of Training Measurement Data from O-DU c) Enrichment Data Retrieval d) Perform association of Training Measurement Data and Enrichment Information e) Model training/re-training f) Model xApp deployment/re-deployment g) Send Enrichment Data to near-RT RIC over A1 h) Performance monitoring and evaluation

# 21 3) Near-RT RIC
a) Retrieval of Enrichment Data over A1 b) Retrieval of ML Models from the Non-RT RIC c) Retrieval of O-DU measurements/SRS configuration over E2 d) Association of E2 Measurement Data and Enrichment Data e) Model inference by xApp f) Send non-GoB control/policy (recommendation of non-GoB beamforming mode) to O-DU over E2

# 29 4) E2 nodes
a) Respond to O1-based Request by sending Report of O-DU supported non-GoB mMIMO configurations

# 31 (beamforming modes) over O1
b) Respond to O1-based Configuration and Report of Training Measurement data / SRS configuration over O1 c) Collect and report measurements (with associated beamforming mode)/SRS configuration over E2 to Near-RT

# 34 RIC
d) Apply non-GoB control/policy (non-GoB beamforming mode) received over E2

### 5.2.3 Impact Analysis on O-RAN Working Groups
Editor’s note: This is an initial impact analysis as part of the WG1 UCTG work on mMIMO. The intention is to estimate the expected standardization effort within the O-RAN working groups. It is up to the WGs to decide how the mMIMO functionality should be specified in specifications of each WG.

# 5 WG2 (Non-RT RIC, A1) Impact

# 6 • O-RAN.WG2.Use-Case-Requirements
o If seen as beneficial, add new use case: Massive MIMO non-Grid-of-Beams Beamforming

# 8 Optimization based on agreements from pre-normative phase

# 9 • O-RAN.WG2.A1 TD
o Support exchange of relevant Enrichment Data from non-RT to near-RT RIC

# 11 WG3 (Near-RT RIC, E2) Impact

# 12 • O-RAN.WG3.UCR
o Add new use case: Massive MIMO non-Grid-of-Beams Beamforming Optimization based on agreements from pre-normative phase

# 15 • O-RAN.WG3.E2SM-KPM
o Option 1: If UE specific L1/2 measurement reporting is added to the 3GPP specification (e.g. 3GPP TS37.320 section 5.4.1.), E2 will refer to 3GPP spec and there will be minor or no impact on E2SM-

# 18 KPM specifications.
o Option 2: If UE specific L1/2 measurement reporting is not added to the 3GPP specifications, “O-RAN specific” measurements need to be added to E2SM-KPM. Considering that measurement definitions exist in 3GPP the effort will be minor, noting that E2SM-KPM has already extended the definitions of measurement counters in TS 28.522 to be able to be retrieved per UE level from RAN node. o Note that there will likely be some commonality with other use cases

# 24 • O-RAN.WG3.E2SM-RC or any other suitable E2SM
o Add new Non-GoB control/policy (non-GoB beamforming mode) in direction near-RT RIC to O-DU

# 26 WG5 (O1) Impact

# 27 • O-RAN.WG5.MP O1 Interface specification for O-DU
o Option 1: If UE specific L1/2 measurement reporting is added to the 3GPP specification (e.g. 3GPP TS37.320 section 5.4.1.), O1 could refer to 3GPP spec and there could be very limited or no impact on

# 30 O1 specifications.
o Option 2: If UE specific L1/2 measurement reporting is not added to or re-used from the 3GPP specifications, O-RAN would add reporting of these as an extension of O1. As the measurement definitions already exist, the impact will be moderate. o Similarly, initialization/training configuration might also be specified in 3GPP and/or in O-RAN (using type “O-RAN WG5 modified model based on 3GPP SA5” as defined in chapter 10).
- Supported Non-GoB beamforming modes Request in direction SMO to O-DU
- Supported Non-GoB beamforming modes Response in direction O-DU to SMO
- Training configuration in direction SMO to O-DU (exact definition is FFS, one
example being a schedule for the application of different beamforming modes during training phase). Summary: The impact on O-RAN E2 specification is small. For O1, the impact on O-RAN specification is small in case measurement reporting/configuration management are specified in 3GPP and referred to by O-RAN specifications, and moderate if the reporting of new required per-UE L1/L2 measurements and related configuration management are specified in O-RAN.

### 5.2.4 Relation and Impact on 3GPP Specification
Per-UE L1/2 measurement reporting might be added to the existing 3GPP MDT framework or might be added in a new

# 3 AI/ML Data Collection framework currently discussed in 3GPP.
The 3GPP MDT framework is defined in 3GPP TS37.320 for UMTS, LTE and NG Radio Access. There are UE specific signal measurements defined with reference to 3GPP TS38.215. The handling and management of MDT traces are specified in 3GPP TS32.421, TS32.422, TS32.423 as well as TS32.445, TS32.446 etc. In terms of a new AI/ML motivated measurement framework, related work is already underway in 3GPP RAN3 and SA5, for example in the Study on enhancement for Data Collection for NR and EN-DC, which is being documented in 37.817. Further work might be considered, for example as proposed in the recent Study Item proposal (S5-215397, “New SID Study on measurement data collection to support RAN intelligence”). Support of new reporting of UE-specific L1/2 measurements in direction O-DU to non- RT RIC and near-RT RIC is therefore FFS. In terms of configuration/control, it is FFS whether 3GPP will specify the following: ▪ Supported Non-GoB beamforming modes Request in direction SMO to O-DU ▪ Supported Non-GoB beamforming modes Response in direction O-DU to SMO

# 15 ▪ Training configuration in direction SMO to O-DU
The current working assumption is that these will first be specified by O-RAN WG5 in which case there is no dependency on 3GPP progress (noting however that additional instances are expected to be proposed to 3GPP for having alignment of the information models between 3GPP and O-RAN WG5).

### 5.2.5 Feasibility and Gain/Complexity Analysis

# 20 Simulation Results
Simulation results are provided for the assumptions shown in Table 5.2.5.1-1. Parameter Description Cell Single cell, 120-degree sector, 300m radius Channel model Based on 3GPP non-line of sight CDL, with path gains and angles computed for random spatial placement of scatterers and static blockers. Pathloss Macro model per 3GPP TR 36.931 Angular spread at BS ~25 degrees MIMO Mode Downlink, SU-MIMO, 2 layers fixed (i.e. no adaptation of layers, pre-coding, no scheduling, etc.) Beamforming modes Mode 0: SRS-based Mode 1: GoB-based Relative SNR DL PDSCH to +10 dB, takes account of relative noise figures and output powers between gNB and UL SRS channel estimate UE (UL Transmit Power Control not modelled) gNB antenna array 32 elements x 2 polarization panel antenna UE antenna array 1 element x 2 polarizations SRS periodicity 8 slots Carrier Frequency 3.5 GHz Output metric Simulated channel capacity

# 22 Table 5.2.5.1-1. Simulation Assumptions
Simulated downlink capacity for one example randomly dropped cell is shown for low (1km/h) and high (120 km/h) mobility scenarios, in the heatmaps in Figure 5.2.5.1-1, and in CDFs of relative throughputs in Figure 5.2.5.1-2 and in

# 3 Figure 5.2.5.1-3.
a) Low mobility b) High mobility

# 6 Figure 5.2.5.1-1. Heatmaps. Brighter colors represent higher throughputs.

# 6 Figure 5.2.5.1-3. Relative PDSCH throughput CDF, low mobility.
The achieved throughput depends on UE location and mobility. The throughput pattern is not uniform across angles due to random placement of scatterers and blockers within the cell. Mode 0 performs best towards the center of the cell and mode 1 towards cell edge, however the cross-over point depends on mobility, with mode 0 performing worse in the high mobility scenario. Table 5.2.5.1-2 and Table 5.2.5.1-3 compare average, 5-percentile and 95-percentile relative throughputs for PDSCH for modes 0 and 1, and for an ideal intelligent mode selection, for low and high mobility cases respectively. The opportunity for intelligent mode selection is a substantial increase in throughput relative to either a fixed configuration of mode-0 or mode-1. It is worth noting that these results are for a single fixed assumed SRS periodicity (8 slots). The cross-over points between mode 0 and mode 1 would also likely have a dependency on SRS periodicity. Mode Relative Relative 5- Relative 95- Av. cell percentile percentile throughput cell cell throughput throughput % % % 0 100.0000 100.0000 100.0000 72.8874 159.9304 55.7866 Ideal intelligent 102.2254 159.9304 100.0000 mode selection Table 5.2.5.1-2. Average, 5-percentile and 95-percentile relative PDSCH throughputs, low mobility Mode Relative Relative 5- Relative 95- Av. cell percentile percentile throughput cell cell throughput throughput % % % 0 100.0000 100.0000 100.0000 99.4713 241.0834 70.7448 Ideal intelligent 114.3104 241.0834 100.0000 mode selection Table 5.2.5.1-3. Average, 5-percentile and 95-percentile relative PDSCH throughputs, high mobility The fixed configuration of a GoB and non-GoB SU-MIMO mode (mode-0 or mode-1) provides one example of the potential benefit of a MIMO mode switching algorithm. The actual gain might be impacted by various factors not considered in this simulation as described in Table 5.2.5.1-1. Although these initial simulation results do not include MU-MIMO scheduling or inter-cell interference, similar findings are expected for these conditions, some related simulated results can be found in [2] . One possibility, to be determined during the normative phase, is for beamforming mode control to be performed for multiple MIMO modes, for example, with one control for SU-MIMO, and one for MU-MIMO.

# 6 MIMO DL Tx Power Optimization, MU-MIMO Pairing and MIMO mode selection

## 6.1 Overview
Massive MIMO holds promise in significantly increasing capacity in practical wireless network environments. Capacity can depend on the wireless network environment (e.g., user velocity, etc.) and the desired quality of the user wireless experience. In many practical cases, the capacity of the cell can be increased by, for example, proper choice of parallel user groups, etc. On the other hand, increased number of parallel users can incur increased inter-user interference which can reduce the user quality. In order to properly balance this trade off operators need fundamental observations (aka, “dials”) to assess the network environment and the user quality for both the uplink and the downlink. Further, to optimize the capacity vs. quality for a given cell for a given time and user distribution, the operator needs fundamental parameters to be changed (aka, “knobs”). The following sections will describe three relevant use-cases and list a number of dials and knobs that we believe constitute a fundamental set for observations and manipulation of massive MIMO systems for both

# 13 Grid of Beams (GoB) and Reciprocity based implementations.
To further optimize/automate the complex process, it is proposed that O-RAN interfaces be provided (dials and knobs) to enable a AI/ML model training and update, its inference, and finally the beam optimization to enhance the massive MIMO system performance observe and manipulate the massive MIMO system.

## 6.2 MIMO optimization use-cases
The use-cases described in the subsequent sections will show how dials and knobs (specifically referenced) can be used to optimize the three important use cases of downlink transmit power, MIMO pairing enhancement (user separability), and user MIMO mode selection (Mu-MIMO or Su-MIMO). Each use case will address the proposed solution, value proposition, use of specific dials and knobs, and where applicable the potential gains via analytical studies or simulation.

### 6.2.1 Solution 1: Downlink Transmit power optimization

# 25 Problem Statement, Solution and Value Proposition
For general downlink precoding, the downlink transmit power is usually evenly distributed across the UEs. However, depending on the UE separability and path loss deltas, this may result in good cell capacity at the expense of individual UE quality. This can be due to a number of issues such as cell edge UEs having general downlink SINR issues (even without Mu-MIMO), poor UE separability between cell edge UEs, and poor uplink SINR resulting in degraded SRS which are a few example issues. The result of these issues can be manifested by observations of very poor individual UE SINRs (either downlink, uplink, or both) when running in a Mu-MIMO mode. Therefore, although the capacity of the cell has been significantly increased, certain customer experiences may become unacceptable in this Mu-MIMO mode. The solution to the problem described above is to simply provide observations (“dials”) of UE performance in the form of periodic histograms of UE channel quality as well as the overall cell capacity in order to compute an optimal solution via AI/ML with control (knob) of the downlink minimum required SINR threshold to achieve a minimal UE quality requirement that is set by the operator. The minimum required SINR is a policy and thus doesn’t require real time AI/ML adjustment of transmit power directly but rather leaves this to the scheduler to adjust and optimize consistent with its numerous other priorities and requirements. This adjustment does not impact the normal iBLER (initial BLER) targets, or the CQI/MCS process of adapting the MCS to the UE indicated CQI. Since the received SINR will vary across UEs (see below) and even across PRBs due to frequency selective fading (where narrowband CQI is an option for operators) there is no explicit impact for PRBs. This concept can be extended to the uplink minimum SINR and can improve the uplink more in reciprocity Mu-MIMO modes since the performance in this mode is highly dependent on channel estimation accuracy which is directly influenced by the SRS quality. Performance in the uplink can be improved as shown in reference [3] when the channel quality increase can improve the interference rejection (gains are referenced in the performance section below). The value of this observability and adjustability allows the operator to optimize the trade-off between cell capacity and individual user/customer quality which is essential to provide the best customer experience. The trade-off, for example, can reduce a very high cell centre data rate (which would likely be unnoticeable for the user) to allow more power to be allocated to the cell edge user (who is noticing low throughput and large latencies) to improve the cell edge data rate situation. The gains to the cell edge occur when specifically, the SINR is so low (e.g., - 10 dB) such that the MCS is low that the spectral efficiency is not sufficient to support the minimum throughput requirements needed by the customer and thus the operator. Based on inputs from the AI/ML system, the scheduler can improve this undesirable situation by re- allocation of transmit power to meet minimum SINR requirements for these degraded users. Thus, the scheduler has a recommended policy that it may (or in special cases is not able to satisfy if UE buffer, latency, or other issues preclude) use as guidance for the scheduling of Mu-MIMO users. In summary, the target of this use case is to improve the downlink post-pairing SINR for MU-MIMO UE to improve cell edge performance and overall cell throughput. The output of this use case is the Minimum Downlink Post-pairing SINR Threshold for MU-MIMO UEs and provided as additional input to the L2 scheduler to support this optimization. The use case does not suggest any specific behaviour. It is left to scheduler implementation how this target is achieved. The relation of this parameter to the 5QI QoS throughput attributes of this UE is ffs.

# 21 Architecture/Deployment Options
The non-RT RIC trains and updates the specific Downlink transmit power control and optimization AI/ML models. Figure 6.2.1.2-1 reflects the functional dependencies of the AI/ML implementation framework. The MU-MIMO DL power control (MPC) rAPP performs optimization required. As shown in Figure 6.2.1.2-1, the rApp uses O1 interface measurement data (via SMO exposed services over R1 interface) for training the ML model. The MPC rApp running in the non-RT RIC uses O1 interface measurement data to optimize minimum downlink SINR threshold for MU-MIMO users at the O-CU or O-DU (as applicable) over O1 interface (via SMO exposed services over R1 interface). The ML model driving the MPC rApp will utilize UE orthogonality and path loss delta data to understand the scenarios where there can be a set of UEs that have significantly degraded SINR, in addition to monitoring SINR from downlink CQI measurements. The output of the ML model will be a configuration recommendation for the minimum downlink

# 31 SINR threshold for Mu-MIMO UEs.
Figure 6.2.1.2-1. High level architecture for MIMO power control use-case Figure 6.2.1.2-2. Call Flow Diagram for MIMO power control use-case In the call flow in Figure 6.2.1.2-2, the rApp can request the current MIMO configuration (e.g. downlink SINR threshold values) (steps 2-5), as well as current network measurements and KPIs (steps 7-10). The R1 interface is used by the rApp to communicate these requests to SMO, which in turn coordinates the collection via O1 interface. The AI/ML model that is part of the rApp will use the measurements to evaluate the current capacity and UE performance and if required, will generate a recommendation to update the SINR configuration (step 16). This new recommendation is sent to SMO via R1 interface, and finally communicated to the O-DU via O1 interface (step 18).

# 9 Requirements
This section outlines the required measurement data (dials) that form the input of the optimization app and also the output control/configuration (knobs) that are to be fine-tuned to achieve the desired optimization objective. Interfac Source Description Units Measureme Reference New or e → nt Period existing Target measurement/ reporting specification O1 O-DU Paired UE Orthogonality Factor (min dB 1 .. 15 min. [Dial09] New → UE pair Cross Correlation Coefficient (0,..,- measurement Non- [0,1] for each K number of parallel 50) for definition RT RIC UEs ) histogram K New (the cross correlation coefficient is values measurement defined as E{hh*]/E{|h|^2} where h = reporting channel estimate for a given UE) O1 O-DU Path Loss Delta distribution across all Percen 1 .. 15 min. [Dial10] New → Mu-MIMO UEs (percent vs. < 1 dB, < t measurement Non- 3 dB, < 5 dB, < 10 dB, < 15 dB, < 20 definition RT RIC dB, < 30 dB, > 30 dB) New (the path loss may be estimated by the measurement downlink TX power minus the RSRP reporting all normalized to the SCS tone bandwidth or be PHR reporting)

# 12 Table 6.2.1.2-1. UE spatial separability dials
O1 O-DU Downlink CQI Report histogram (one Percen 1 .. 15 [ Dial18] Measurement → CQI histogram (percent use vs. CQI t min. definition in Non- index) for each number of Mu-MIMO 3GPP TS RT RIC UEs in parallel (e.g., 1,2,3,..K) See 38.214 section 0 (GoB) for other use cases. New measurement reporting O1 O-DU Zero Power reference measurement dBm 1 .. 15 [Dial20] New → value per beam (average value – dBm) min. measurement Non- – Intercell Interference Measurements definition RT RIC New measurement reporting O1 O-DU Para. 5.1.6 (ref.[5]) CSI signal-to-noise Percen 1 .. 15 [Dial21] Measurement → and interference ratio (CSI-SINR) t min. definition in Non- histogram 3GPP TS RT RIC 38.215 New measurement reporting

# 3 Table 6.2.1.2-3. Downlink MIMO power control knobs
Note: It is FFS whether any of the listed measurements have any dependency on O-RU and if any information needs to be exchanged over O-RAN FH m-plane interface from O-RU to O-DU.

# 7 O-RAN Entity roles:

# 8 1) SMO & Non-RT RIC
a) Collect existing configuration and performance data from RAN b) Trigger AI/ML Model training/update and deployment as necessary c) Apply power control recommendations from rApp via R1 and O1 interface using config management service.

# 12 2) O-CU
a) Report current configuration and performance data to non-RT RIC rApp via O1 interface if requested by rApp.

# 14 3) O-DU
a) Report current configuration and performance data to non-RT RIC rApp via O1 interface. b) Apply power control related knobs based on rAPP recommendation.

# 6 WG1 (use cases, architecture) Impact
- Update WG1 use case analysis report and use-case detailed specification with downlink power control use case.

# 8 No impact to existing architecture.

# 9 WG2 (Non-RT RIC, A1, R1) Impact
- Assess impact to A1 and R1 interfaces and non-RT RIC architecture, including AI/ML training and deployment.
- Add new use cases and corresponding requirements and specifications in case impact to A1 or R1 interfaces.

# 12 WG5 (O-CU and O-DU) Impact
- Assess impact on O-CU and O-DU support for dials and knobs described in the use-case.

# 14 WG10 (SMO, O1) Impact
- Assess impact with PM coordination group and IM/DM coordination group on support of proposed dials
(measurements) and knobs (configuration IM/DM) and incorporation in existing O1 interface models, as well as any required coordination with 3GPP Summary: A detailed analysis of the specification impact is to be completed. There is large specification impact to specify new proposed measurement definitions and measurement reporting in 3GPP or in O-RAN. The impact of the required measurements and configurations will be reduced if they are already part of ongoing/upcoming O-RAN specifications (ffs) or are being considered for specification in other bodies such as 3GPP (ffs).

# 23 Complexity/Gains
The simulation of 8 UEs in an urban setting (without intercell interference just to keep it simple) is shown in Figure 6.2.1.4-1 as a first step in simulation as next steps cell clusters are planned to be simulated as well to confirm intercell interference performance. It was based on uniform downlink TX power distribution and a generic zero forcing precoding algorithm (Green dots). Clearly the resulting downlink SINR is fairly uniform for most of the UEs except for UE#6 and UE#8 which tend toward the cell edge. The poor SINR of these two UEs can be mitigated by either monitoring the separability and potentially deleting them from the pairing with the other 6 UEs or by reallocating some of the power to the other UEs. In the cases where there may be excessive SINR for a near-center of the cell UE (not in this simulated case) the downlink TX power can be reallocated to benefit the cell edge UEs to bring them up to a minimum SINR for example. Specifically, general statistical trends of poor cell edge SINR will be detected by the measurements (dials) and optimized by the AI/ML to result in an appropriate minimum SINR threshold.
- Bandwidth = 20 MHz
- 8x8 Antenna Array
- 2 GHz frequency
- Urban High Rise
- Base station height = 20 meters
- UE height = all at ground level

# 15 Summary
In summary, a difference in SINR as received by paired MU-MIMO UEs has been shown for a system without inter-cell interference. Further simulations at system level are under consideration. The gain of this use case in terms of cell edge and overall cell performance will depend on the actual L2 scheduler implementation and the consideration of this information by the L2 scheduler. A complexity analysis was not part of the pre-normative phase.

### 6.2.2 Solution 2: MU-MIMO Pairing Enhancement (User Separability or Pairing
Control)

# 3 Problem Statement, Solution, and Value Proposition
Existing channel orthogonality between multiple users is a key criterion to create user separability and allow for the opportunity to share radio frequency resources simultaneously. Without so, residual interference will be too high to maintain adequate post pairing radio link signal quality levels required to sustain MU-MIMO mode assignments. With mobility there is an added demand to adjust beamforming weight assignments to not only maintain signal power levels at the user end (beam quality), but also to continuously limit the inter user interference experienced between users assigned with the same radio resource allocations. In the absence of creative solutions that capably and in a timely manner respond to the above-described challenges, the 5G massive MIMO deployment will fail to utilize the full capability of large antenna arrays powered by transceivers designed to transmit data channel signals towards a spatially confined direction. Schedulers will also fail to realize potential multiplexing gains as fewer radio resource blocks are shared between users within the same cell, reducing spectral efficiency. Important too is the need to efficiently identify users with low demand for radio resources - sources of bursty traffic. An intelligent assessment of how best such users can be effectively paired, if at all, with other users needs to be pre- determined by the radio intelligent controller. Channel estimation mechanisms that can be extrapolated in time and do not risk becoming stale so they can be utilized effectively to generate accurate weights and applied rapidly, is critical. For lower volume buffer data, an unacceptable gap in the above can create failure in MU-MIMO pairing. In summary, this use case suggests various measurement objects (aka dials) that are recommended as input into the AI/ML analytics Apps to optimally determine the outputs (aka knobs) required to optimize the MU-MIMO feature operation. The following section presents the input and output parameter and possible use in an AI/ML analytics App.

# 22 Scheduled UEs
1. Histogram of UEs with data in Buffer [Dial01] a. If greater than “Threshold_High,” evaluate cell’s MU-MIMO pairing history and set status of cell as

# 26 AI/ML optimization candidate.
2. # Of scheduled MU-MIMO UEs per TTI [Dial04] a. AI/ML shall aspire to improve or maintain pairing success rate b. Correlate to histogram of UEs with data in buffer 3. Include percent of UE pairs evaluated for orthogonality by the scheduler [Dial05] 4. AI/ML shall aspire to keep difference between 3. and “# Of scheduled MU-MIMO UEs per TTI” at a minimum by minimizing residual interference of paired UEs.

# 33 5. iBLER for MU-MIMO UEs [Dial06]
a. AI/ML shall aspire to improve pre pair value vs post pair b. Delta iBLER should not exceed A dB, for a given pair size, for example. 6. TTI of Evaluation vs. TTI of Scheduled Pairing or the Offset [Dial08] a. For lower volume buffer data, an unacceptable gap in the above can create failure in MU-MIMO pairing

# 39 UE Spatial Separability

# 40 1. Paired UE Orthogonality Factor [Dial09]
a. This is a measure of MU-MIMO performance sustainability. Spectral Efficiency will increase. It is an implicit reflection of residual interference among paired UEs.

# 43 2. Path Loss Delta [Dial10]
a. If orthogonality factor is high, and pathloss delta is high, AI/ML should be used due to an inherent decorrelation of channel between the served UEs, for a given spatial distribution.

# 5 2. Coherence Bandwidth [Dial12]
a. To maximize PRB/TTI assignment to MU-MIMO vs. SU-MIMO.

# 8 Downlink MIMO Quality

# 9 1. Downlink CQI Report Histogram [Dial18]
a. To safely scale the MU-MIMO pairing size – CQI is expected to fall with increase in pairing size. According to the CQI and number of candidates that exist, AI/ML shall intelligently optimize pairing.

# 12 2. ZP Reference Measurement Value per Beam [Dial20]
a. ZP CSI-RS is to be used for interference measurement (Indication of likely residual interference)

# 15 Uplink MIMO Quality
1. Minimum, Average and Maximum Uplink SINR or Co-UE interference, Noise and External Interference level per UE to allow assessments of Uplink channel pairing decisions similar to the downlink [Dial22] 2. Percent Time MU-MIMO UEs are at Maximum TX Power and < 5 PRB allows assessments of UL coverage [Dial24]

# 21 Frequency Reuse Factor for Pilots
1. Histogram of re-used Pilots (SRS) from neighbor cells [Dial25] a. Non-Real /Real Time RIC will work to assign different SRS to in-cell UEs to improve channel estimation performance

# 26 Uplink Covariance

# 27 1. Post Pilot Removal Uplink Covariance [Dial26]
a. Measure of channel orthogonality between MU-MIMO UEs and selection optimization, through channel estimation

# 30 Pilot and Coherence Block Joint Distribution [Dial27]
1. Histogram of Selected Pilot Sequence Length and Histogram of Selected Coherence Block a. AI/ML will impart intelligence into the robustness of the pilot signals used for channel estimation

# 33 Spectral Efficiency

# 34 1. MU-MIMO PRB Utilization Histogram [Dial30]
a. AI/ML will monitor to evaluate data Bytes transmitted, correlated to MU-MIMO pairing levels. This will be compared to BLER reports for pairing decisions. 2. Total PRB % Used Supporting MU-MIMO histogram [Dial31] a. As above

# 39 3. MU-MIMO PDCP Volume Histogram [Dial32]
a. Required for spectral efficiency calculation

# 41 4. MU-MIMO Throughput DRB vs. MU-MIMO Layers [Dial33]
a. Required to evaluate MU-MIMO pairing effectiveness and scalability

# 43 5. MU-MIMO Spectral Efficiency [Dial34]
a. Required to evaluate MU-MIMO pairing effectiveness With the above inputs, the AI/ML app will calculate the outputs to control the optimization of the Massive MIMO system below.

# 3 Uplink UE Transmit Power Control
1. Minimum Uplink SINR Threshold for MU-MIMO UEs [Knob01] a. Useful to ensure SRS reciprocity-based beamforming approach is effective

# 7 Downlink Transmit Power Allocation
1. Minimum Downlink SINR Threshold for MU-MIMO UEs [Knob02] a. This can be a variable based on traffic loading within a cell. A lower threshold can be tolerated, but greater than a cut-off threshold that is already existing as an implicit indicator (pre pairing evaluation) prior to pairing. It can also be a variable based upon the pairing size (Number of UEs in MU-MIMO mode, within same paired group)

# 14 Parallel Scheduling Control

# 15 1. Uplink SINR Threshold [Knob03]

# 16 2. Downlink SINR Threshold [Knob04]

# 17 3. Minimum in-buffer PDU Count [Knob05]
a. To minimize beamforming and MU-MIMO process overhead and scheduling delays

# 19 4. Minimum projected TTIs required for scheduling [Knob06]
a. To minimize beamforming and MU-MIMO process overhead and scheduling delays

# 21 5. Threshold for pairing candidates’ SRS strength [Knob07]
a. To make MU-MIMO beamforming more effective, especially for Zero Forcing technique. 6. Maximum Number of Paired Candidates [Knob09 or Knob08]] a. A means to limit Pairing size based on evaluation metrics and performance of larger pairing sizes 7. UE Pairing Selection Threshold Based on 5QI Threshold for Pairing [Knob10] a. Prioritizing pairing during congestion, based on 5QI QOS characteristics

# 28 SRS Sequence and Distribution

# 30 1. SRS Length [Knob10]

# 31 2. SRS Sequence Partition [Knob11]
Both are required to optimize performance based upon channel estimation outcome, reflected in the orthogonality between paired users or their residual interference levels.

# 34 Quiescent Antenna Weight Application

# 35 1. Customizable set of Antenna Weights [Knob15]
a. Optimization of array structure to improve spatial resolution of beams to support a wide distribution of

# 37 MU-MIMO users.
Realizing that significant increases in network capacity generally require large capital outlays to increase the available spectrum and to purchase new equipment, the promise of Massive MIMO to increase the capacity and essentially the available spectrum usage efficiency by adopting approaches relying upon advanced antenna arrays, is strongly considered. However, such approaches at the same time add additional interference among the users that are simultaneously using the same spectrum. In fact, in general, more simultaneous users add more interference to each individual user and thus a careful balance between capacity and quality must be maintained or unhappy users can ‘churn’ to competitors. The AI/ML assisted modeling and training output, along with the non-RT RIC based enhancement/inference, will strive to deliver end goal solution selections and system configuration options that upon adoption within the respective domains where they reside, realize an optimization framework that maximizes the potential of a MU-MIMO feature. Capacity augmentation will be realized by successfully assigning MU-MIMO layers to a greater number of users simultaneously, more often, and more uniformly across the serving area of each gNB. Dials that capture measurement values as appropriately defined in this document, and knobs which are configured to manage the operations of critical techniques that define the MU-MIMO feature and its underlying algorithms meant to enhance pairing capabilities, will provide the platforms for a successful implementation that realizes the following goals: 1) Increased spectral efficiency through the support of higher total throughput, by a factor more closely proportional to the number of layers supported by the DU 2) Robust MU-MIMO layers with per link MCS that is closely reflective of power loss at transmitter, proportional to number of layers

# 15 3) More resource blocks assigned to MU-MIMO mode
Particularly, AI/ML is used to optimize the network capacity utilizing a channel reciprocity-based approach vs. maintenance of the quality of the connection for each user with shared resources. Additionally presented is the approach that involves using a GoB-based solution, similar in objective to the reciprocity one, whereby balance between user quality and capacity realized, is aimed. The dials needed to assess user quality generally consist of measuring the quality (SINR, CQI, etc.) of both the Uplink and Downlink for each user. Other metrics include the Uplink power margin for the user and the user mobility among many other factors (see following sections for a comprehensive list of many of them). Other metrics that provide assessments of capacity include the normal cell volume and cell throughputs along with congestion (active connected users with data in the buffer). For Massive MIMO the individual “user separability” impacts the MU-MIMO pairing performance (and thus capacity) such that the users cannot be arbitrarily paired or else low user spatial separability can mutually degrade the user link quality due to significant inter-user interference. Thus, user separability must be tracked and used to train the AI/ML component in to optimize the capacity while constrained to insure minimum levels of user quality. The AI/ML component, after training, will output “knobs” to appropriately adjust the capacity to attempt to meet the user volume, throughput, and latency demands. Examples of the knobs for reciprocity are the allocations of Downlink Transmit Power allocation among users (see Section 6.2.1 above), the assignment of levels of pairing or parallelism, assignment of modes of Su-MIMO vs. Mu-MIMO (see Section 6.2.3 below for more details), etc. An alternative approach to the Reciprocity (mainly for TDD systems) based solution is the GoB approach, which relies upon using the downlink CSI-RS reference signal to estimate the downlink channel (CSI). Here, a quantized model of the CSI is fed back to the base station in order to make proper precoding decisions for the set of MU-MIMO users. This approach can make use of shadow fading CSI information (type I) that is estimated or even the combination of shadow and fast fading (type II) CSI information that is fed back with, of course, a larger required number of bits. The dials section enumerates a list of the user feedback CSI information that should be monitored to assess the state of the channel and the quality of the channel (CQI, SINR, etc.). In addition, the link quality can also be associated with the choice of multiple downlink beams that are received by the user and these need to be properly monitored as well. In addition, various “sub-beam” modalities must be monitored that give more information about the beam characteristics (e.g., beam phase, etc.). In this case, the user beams (vs. the user channels for reciprocity) need to be assessed for “user separability” as well. There are several methods that can be applied, after training in the ML/AI component, that can be used to ensure user quality while maximizing capacity. A “knobs” implementation that controls the beam shapes and power allocation (while assessing the user pairing degree) can be used to ensure user quality.

# 12 Requirements
In order to achieve the value proposition described above, the key Massive MIMO KPIs or dials need to be monitored to assess the state of the system. A proposed set is discussed in the following sections. All the dials/measurements listed here are required at a configurable granularity in multiples of 1 minute, ranging from 1 to 15 minutes. Interfac Source Description Units Measureme Reference New or e → nt Period existing Target measuremen t/reporting specification O1 O-DU Histogram of UEs with data in the Percen 1 .. 15 min. [Dial01] New → buffer. If greater than t measurement Non- “Threshold_High,” evaluate cell’s definition RT RIC MU-MIMO pairing history and set New status of cell as AI/ML optimization measurement candidate. reporting O1 O-DU Angle of Arrival or Beam ID integer 1 .. 15 min. [Dial03] New → histogram. Only for GoB Feedback. measurement Non- definition RT RIC New measurement reporting O1 O-DU # of scheduled MU-MIMO UEs per percen 1 .. 15 min. [Dial04] New → TTI (histogram of % UE=1, % UE=2 t measurement Non- ,% UE = max limit (K)) definition RT RIC New measurement reporting O1 O-DU Percent of UE pairs evaluated for percen 1 .. 15 min. [Dial05] New → orthogonality by the scheduler t measurement Non- (histogram, %=0, %=1, %=2, ….%= definition RT RIC P) New measurement reporting O1 O-DU iBLER (initial Block Error Rate, percen 1 .. 15 min. [Dial06] New → BLER) for the MU-MIMO UEs t measurement Non- definition RT RIC New measurement reporting O1 O-DU UEs scheduled for Mu-MIMO pairing percen 1 .. 15 min. [Dial07] New → (histogram, %UE=0, %UE=1, …, t measurement Non- percent UE = K) definition RT RIC New measurement reporting O1 O-DU TTI of Evaluation vs. TTI of Count 1 .. 15 min. [Dial08] New → Scheduled pairing or the offset measurement Non- (histogram %TTI=1, %TTI=2,…, definition RT RIC %TTI = 100) New measurement reporting

# 4 Table 6.2.2.2-5. Uplink MIMO quality dials
O1 O-DU Histogram of re-used pilots (CSI-RS perce 1 .. 15 min. [Dial25] New → and SRS) from neighbor cells (reused nt measurement Non- pilots = 0, 1, 2,…,M) definition RT RIC New measurement reporting

# 6 Table 6.2.2.2-6. Frequency Reuse factor for Pilots dials
O1 O-DU Post Pilot Removal Uplink Fixe 1 .. 15 min. [Dial26] New → Covariance (10 sec. average) per Mu- d measurement Non- MIMO UE vs. Pairing size 1,…,K point definition RT RIC (Section 3.3 for other use cases) New measurement reporting

# 6 Table 6.2.2.2-9. Spectral Efficiency dials
O1 O-DU SSB Wide-beam (by Beam index) Percen 1 .. 15 [Dial39] New → selected during data transmission t min. measurement Non- (histogram of percent usage vs. beam definition RT RIC index (e.g., 0-7 for 3-6 GHz)) New measurement reporting O1 O-DU CRI-RSRP per Port (RSRP histogram Percen 1 .. 15 [Dial40] New → from -130 to -70 dBm histogram in 2 t min. measurement Non- dB steps 0.5 - 1 sec definition RT RIC for Near- New RT measurement reporting O1 O-DU PMI index histogram for Type II Percen 1 .. 15 [Dial41] New → feedback (percent usage per PMI t min. measurement Non- index) definition RT RIC New measurement reporting O1 O-DU Type 2 Port Selection Codebook 2nd Percen 1 .. 15 [Dial42] New → stage PMI reporting – Wideband t min. measurement Non- Amplitude co-efficient histogram used 0.5 - 1 sec definition RT RIC most (1, ½, ¼, 1/8, 1/16, 1/32, 1/64, 0) for Near- New per beam RT measurement reporting O1 O-DU Type 2 Port Selection Codebook 2nd Percen 1 .. 15 [Dial43] New → stage PMI reporting – Wideband t min. measurement Non- Amplitude co-efficient histogram used 0.5 - 1 sec definition RT RIC least (1, ½, ¼, 1/8, 1/16, 1/32, 1/64, 0) for Near- New per beam RT measurement reporting O1 O-DU Type 2 Port Selection Codebook 2nd Percen 1 .. 15 [Dial44] New → stage PMI reporting – Sub-band co- t min. measurement Non- phasing “phase shifts” maximum shift 0.5 - 1 sec definition RT RIC per beam histogram for Near- New RT measurement reporting O1 O-DU Type 2 Port Selection Codebook 2nd Percen 1 .. 15 [Dial45] New → stage PMI reporting – Sub-band co- t min. measurement Non- phasing “phase shifts” minimum shift 0.5 - 1 sec definition RT RIC per beam histogram for Near- New RT measurement reporting O1 O-DU Type 2 Port Selection Codebook 2nd Percen 1 .. 15 [Dial46] New → stage PMI reporting – Sub-band co- t min. measurement Non- phasing “phase shifts” most used 0.5 - 1 sec definition RT RIC quantized value per beam histogram for Near- New RT measurement reporting

# 3 Table 6.2.2.2-10. Beam Management Monitor dials
O1 O-DU Maximum Eigenvalue distribution of Numb 1 .. 15 min. [Dial47] New → the uplink covariance matrix er measurement Non- definition RT RIC New measurement reporting

# 5 Table 6.2.2.2-12. Links and layers dials
Similar to the measurement and monitoring objective of the “dials” section, the control of key parameters is the objective of the “knobs” section. This allows the value proposition of allowing each operator to satisfy their respective unique optimality criteria via emerging AI/ML technologies. O1 Non- Uplink SINR threshold (for MU- Intege 1 .. 15 [Knob03] New RT MIMO eligibility) r (dB) min. measurement RIC → definition O-DU New measurement reporting O1 Non- Downlink SINR threshold (for MU- Intege 1 .. 15 [Knob04] New RT MIMO eligibility) r (dB) min. measurement RIC → definition O-DU New measurement reporting O1 Non- Minimum in-buffer PDU count (or Intege 1 .. 15 [Knob05] New RT traffic volume in Bytes) (buffer vol. r min. measurement RIC → selection requirement for scheduling, (kbyte definition O-DU units = kbytes, FA = minute) s) New measurement reporting O1 Non- Minimum projected TTIs required Intege 1 min. [Knob06] New RT for scheduling (equivalent buffer r, # measurement RIC → TTIs required for scheduling, units = TTI definition O-DU # TTI, FA = minute) New measurement reporting O1 Non- Threshold for pairing candidates’ Intege 1 .. 15 [Knob07] New RT SRS strength (units = dB relative to r, min. measurement RIC → standard, standard is settable in dBm) dBm definition O-DU New measurement reporting O1 Non- Average number of paired candidates Intege 1 .. 15 [Knob08] New RT (units = 1,2,…,L) r min. measurement RIC → definition O-DU New measurement reporting O1 Non- Maximum number of paired Intege 1 .. 15 [Knob09] New RT candidates (units = 1,2,…,L) r min. measurement RIC → definition O-DU New measurement reporting O1 Non- UE pairing selection threshold based intege 1 .. 15 [Knob10] New RT on 5QI threshold for pairing (units = r min. measurement RIC → 1,….,Q) definition O-DU New measurement reporting O1 Non- Quiescent Antenna Weight Vecto 1 .. 15 [Knob21] New RT Application r min measurement RIC → definition O-DU New measurement reporting O1 Non- Settable Number of SSB Beams / Intege 1 .. 15 [Knob22] New RT CSI-RS Resources r min measurement definition RIC → New O-DU measurement reporting O1 Non- Number of Refined/Narrow Beams Intege 1 .. 15 [Knob23] New RT per SSB r min measurement RIC → definition O-DU New measurement reporting O1 Non- Settable Reference CSI-RS vs List 1 .. 15 [Knob24] New RT Neighbor CSI-RS mapping for SSB Set min measurement RIC → symbols definition O-DU New measurement reporting O1 Non- CSI-RS Density Value 1 .. 15 [Knob25] New RT min measurement RIC → definition O-DU New measurement reporting O1 Non- Minimum Downlink SINR Value 1 .. 15 [Knob26] New RT Threshold for MU-MIMO UEs min measurement RIC → definition O-DU New measurement reporting O1 Non- SRS Length Numb 1 .. 15 [Knob27] New RT er min measurement RIC → definition O-DU New measurement reporting O1 Non- SRS Sequence Partition Group 1 .. 15 [Knob28] New RT ID min measurement RIC → definition O-DU New measurement reporting Table 6.2.2.2-13. Output knobs (control) from MIMO pairing use-case Note: It is FFS whether any of the listed measurements have any dependency on O-RU and if any information needs to be exchanged over O-RAN FH m-plane interface from O-RU to O-DU.

# 5 O-RAN Entity roles:

# 6 1) SMO & Non-RT RIC
a) Collect existing configuration and performance data from RAN b) Trigger AI/ML Model training/update and deployment as necessary c) Apply MIMO pairing control recommendations from rApp via R1 and O1 interface using config management service.

# 11 2) O-CU nodes
a) Report current configuration and performance data to non-RT RIC rApp via O1 interface if requested.

# 13 3) O-DU nodes
a) Report current configuration and performance data to non-RT RIC rApp via O1 interface. b) Apply MIMO pairing control related knobs based on rAPP recommendation.

# 4 Impact Analysis on O-RAN WGs
Editor’s note: This is an initial impact analysis as part of the WG1 UCTG work on mMIMO. The intention is to estimate the expected standardization effort within the O-RAN working groups. It is up to the WGs to decide how the mMIMO functionality should be specified in specifications of each WG, and whether it will be part of existing or new set of specifications.

# 9 WG1 (use cases, architecture) Impact
- Update WG1 use case analysis report and use-case detailed specification with MU-MIMO pairing control use
case. No impact to existing architecture.

# 12 WG2 (Non-RT RIC, A1, R1) Impact
- Assess impact to A1 and R1 interfaces and non-RT RIC architecture, including AI/ML training and deployment.
- Add new use cases and corresponding requirements and specifications in case there is an impact to A1 or R1
interfaces.

# 16 WG5 (O-CU and O-DU) Impact
- Assess impact on O-CU and O-DU support for dials and knobs described in the use-case.

# 18 WG10 (SMO, O1) Impact
- Assess impact with PM coordination group and IM/DM coordination group on support of proposed dials
(measurements) and knobs (configuration IM/DM) and incorporation in existing O1 interface models, as well as any required coordination with 3GPP. Summary: A detailed analysis of the specification impact is to be completed. There is large specification impact to specify new proposed measurement definitions and measurement reporting in 3GPP or in O-RAN. The impact of the required measurements and configurations will be reduced if they are already part of ongoing/upcoming O-RAN specifications (ffs) or are being considered for specification in other bodies such as 3GPP (ffs).

### 6.2.3 Solution 3: MIMO mode selection (Mu-MIMO vs Su-MIMO selection
optimization) In this section the use case pertaining to optimal selection of Su-MIMO vs. Mu-MIMO is addressed. We shall explicitly refer to various inputs (aka dials) that are recommended for input into the AI/ML analytics Apps in order to optimally determine the outputs (aka knobs) of the Mu-MIMO and Su-MIMO selection control.

# 35 Problem Statement, Solution, and Value Proposition
A successful MU-MIMO operation involves the realization of as many orthogonal radio frequency channel links between multiple spatially separated users as possibly as supported by the implementation software at the digital domain. Key to such realization is the successful beamforming weight determination that enables not only the phase addition of multipath signals at the user receiver, but also the choice of precoding algorithms which limit the residual interference between the paired users. AI/ML driven solutions can optimize such selections, as captured also in Section 3.3. It can make sense for the scheduler to prioritize the assignment of radio resources to a MU-MIMO mode of operation during periods of congestion or when high latency requiring applications are supported (to free up other resources that can be assigned sooner). However, doing so at the expense of undesirably lower spectral efficiency on these assigned radio resources will reduce overall sector throughput levels and create poor user experience. It is important to find a means through the AI/ML agent to distinguish users and identify sectors where optimal operation means a greater assignment of SU-MIMO modes independently to users, especially those requiring higher throughput, using devices that are capable of supporting higher layer SU-MIMO count, and operating in an environment that sustains a greater channel rank. In this section, the use case pertaining to the optimal selection of SU-MIMO vs. MU-MIMO for assignment to users to maximize the realized spectrum efficiency is addressed. We shall explicitly refer to various inputs (aka dials) that are recommended for input into the AI/ML analytics Apps in order to optimally determine the outputs (aka knobs) for the

# 14 MU-MIMO and SU-MIMO mode selection control.

# 15 Indication of MIMO Type and Layers
1. Percent TTIs SU-MIMO vs. MU-MIMO vs Hybrid (TTI with SU-MIMO and MU-MIMO) [Dial15] a. AI/ML training will use this data to further optimize scheduler with the aim to increase overall cell spectral efficiency, based on pairing opportunities, data in buffer, larger SU-MIMO layer assignments etc. 2. Joint Histogram of simultaneous MU-MIMO and SU-MIMO Layers assigned per PRB [Dial17] a. This joint histogram allows the operator to assess the Mu-MIMO layer performance and also the Su- MIMO performance conditioned on the Mu-MIMO layer example shown below: Mu-MIMO/Su-MIMO Su-MIMO Layer = 1 Su-MIMO Layer = 2 … Su-MIMO Layer = M Mu-MIMO Layer = 1 10% 20% … 20% Mu-MIMO Layer = 2 % % … % … … … … … Mu-MIMO Layer = N % % … % Optimization based upon AI/ML training might result in a joint histogram output reflecting a cell’s operation that has now moved more to the lower right side of Table 6.2.3.1-1, relative to the pre optimization scenario belonging some place to the left upper part of Table 6.2.3.1-1. AI/ML exercise might identify for various loading conditions and end user device counts, how much optimization is possible to move performance from current position to one of a higher level, in accordance with the dimensions of Table 6.2.3.1-1.

# 31 Downlink MIMO Quality
1. Downlink CQI Report histogram (SU-MIMO) vs. chosen MCS/CQI index [Dial18] a. Histogram indicating higher CQI bias would mean that there is scope for scheduler to favor higher layer SU-MIMO assignment vs. MU-MIMO. Channel specific to cell, UE distribution favor and traffic loading is used for AI/ML training with this CQI report. 2. CSI signal-to-noise and interference ratio (CSI-SINR) histogram [Dial21] a. This metric gives an implicit indication of channel estimation reliability used for AI/ML training for GoB based MU-MIMO, using Type II feedback. If below a threshold, SU-MIMO can be prioritized over MU-MIMO. CSI-SINR can be used for mobility cases by imparting intelligence into the channel estimation confidence determination.

# 3 Uplink MIMO Quality
1. Minimum, Average (linear), and Maximum Uplink SINR per UE histogram (SINR range: -10 to +30 dB) (SU- MIMO) [Dial23] is required to check uplink quality for SU-MIMO vs. MU-MIMO selection.

# 6 Condition Number
1. SU-MIMO Condition number in dB histogram (21 dB to 0 dB) [Dial28] a. High Condition numbers reported at high percentage of times will discourage the AI/ML training to recommend SU-MIMO assignment 2. SU-MIMO Reported Rank distribution histogram (Rank = 1,….,Max Rank) [Dial29] a. Used to estimate the feasibility of higher layer support Spectral Efficiency is constantly monitored to allow optimization using the following KPIs: 1. MU-MIMO vs. SU-MIMO PRB Utilization Histogram [Dial30] and [Dial35] 2. MU-MIMO vs. SU-MIMO PDCP Volume histogram [Dial32] and [Dial36] 3. MU-MIMO vs. SU-MIMO DRB (DL and UL) Throughput Histograms [Dial33] and [Dial37] 4. MU-MIMO vs. SU-MIMO Spectral Efficiency [Dial34] and [Dial38] The following will be the outputs or knobs for the optimization App:

# 19 MIMO Mode Setting
1. Operator shall be able to set any UE to either SU-MIMO only or MU-MIMO only by QCI threshold [Knob13] a. A shutout mechanism for UEs under adversarial conditions for either of the two MIMO modes, as appropriately decided based upon AI/ML training output and inference. 2. Set SU-MIMO Rank – The Condition Number target [Knob14] a. If above an AI/ML (training outcome) determined threshold, and for UE buffer status, cell loading etc.

# 25 MU-MIMO if viable, will be prioritized over SU-MIMO.

# 26 Beam Commands

# 27 1. CSI-RS Density [Knob20]
a. Can be increased or decreased based on CSI feedback reliability as assessed and set as a target by

# 29 AI/ML non-real time RIC.
The reader is referred to Section 3.3 for an invaluable use case for selecting the Massive MIMO mode in each user environment. This use case can be expected to make feasible the ability to put priority upon MU-MIMO selection as a means towards achieving optimisation. However here we limit the scope to giving additional examples of how the subsequent list of dials and knobs can be exploited in various important use cases. With increased loading Massive MIMO systems will incur rising levels of interference on the uplink from connected users and on the downlink from the gNB. In addition to normal SINR measurements, the diagnosis of interference from all spatial directions uniformly (white spatial noise) versus specific directions (spatially correlated noise) will be of interest and will require MIMO modes (SU-MIMO vs MU-MIMO) to be properly selected for assignment on a user basis. Such implementation will optimize the per user and per cell throughputs, taking into consideration channel orthogonality conditions rank realizable, and per user effective bandwidth requirement. Optimization will also factor into consideration the interaction and dependencies between multiple features or capabilities, such as carrier aggregation vs. beamforming capability and carrier aggregation vs. MU-MIMO assignments, for example. Dials that indicate the type of spatial interference are included in the Uplink Covariance “dial” which is also required in the GoB handover use case in Section 3.3. Interference that could include inter-cell Pilot contamination must be identified and mitigated. Mitigation can be improved with pilot sequence tracking and distribution, as presented in the in the knobs section.

# 4 Architecture/deployment Options
The non-RT RIC trains and updates the specific MIMO Mode Selection AI/ML models. Figure 6.2.3.2-1 reflects the functional dependencies of the AI/ML implementation framework. The MIMO Mode Selection (MMS) rAPP targets to optimize user throughput vs cell throughput. As shown in Figure 6.2.3.2-1, the rApp uses O1 and FH m-plane measurement data (via SMO exposed services). The MMS rApp running in the non-RT RIC uses O1data to optimize cell MU-MIMO vs. SU-MIMO assignment by configuring O-DU over O1 interface parameters (via SMO exposed services over R1 interface). Figure 6.2.3.2-1. O-RAN Architecture Diagram for MIMO mode selection use case Figure 6.2.3.2-2. Call Flow Diagram for MIMO mode selection use case In the call in Figure 6.2.3.2-2, the rApp can request the current MIMO configuration listed in Table 6.2.3.2-6 (steps 2-5), as well as current network measurements and KPIs listed in Table 6.2.3.2-1 to Table 6.2.3.2-5 (steps 7-10). The R1 interface is used by the rApp to communicate these requests to SMO, which in turn coordinates the collection via O1 interface. The AI/ML model that is part of the rApp will use the measurements to evaluate the current capacity and UE performance and if required, will generate a recommendation to update one or more of the identified configuration knobs (step 16). This new recommendation is sent to SMO via R1 interface, and finally communicated to the O-DU via O1 interface (step 18).

# 12 Requirements
In order to achieve the value proposition described above, the key Massive MIMO KPIs or dials need to be monitored to assess the state of the system. All the dials/measurements listed here are required at a configurable granularity in multiples of 1 minute, ranging from 1 to 15 minutes. O1 O-DU Percent TTIs SU-MIMO vs. MU- Perc 1 .. 15 min. [Dial15] New → MIMO vs Hybrid (TTi with SU- ent measurement Non- MIMO and MU-MIMO) definition RT New RIC measurement reporting O1 O-DU Histogram of percent usage vs. # of Perc 1 .. 15 min. [Dial16] New → MU-MIMO users (users = 2,…,K) ent measurement Non- definition RT New RIC measurement reporting O1 O-DU Joint Histogram of simultaneous Perce 1 .. 15 [Dial17] New → MU-MIMO and SU-MIMO Layers nt min. measurement Non- assigned per PRB (MU-MIMO definition RT percentage vs. MU-MIMO (layers New RIC 1,…,N) and N SU-MIMO (layers measurement 1,…,M) histograms each conditioned reporting on a given no. of MU-MIMO layers) Table 6.2.3.2-1. Dials for indication of MIMO types and layers O1 O-DU Downlink CQI Report histogram Perce 1 .. 15 [Dial18] New → (one CQI histogram (percent use vs. nt min. measurement Non- CQI index) for each number of MU- definition RT MIMO UEs in parallel (e.g., New RIC 1,2,3,..K) (see Section 3.3 for other measurement use cases) reporting O1 O-DU ZP reference measurement value per dBm 1 .. 15 [Dial20] New → beam (average value – dBm) min. measurement Non- definition RT New RIC measurement reporting O1 O-DU Para. 5.1.6 ([5]) CSI signal-to-noise Perce 1 .. 15 [Dial21] Existing → and interference ratio (CSI-SINR) nt min. specification Non- histogram [5] RT New RIC measurement reporting

# 3 Table 6.2.3.2-2. Dials for downlink MIMO quality
O1 O-DU Minimum, Average (linear), and Perce 1 .. 15 [Dial22] New → Maximum Uplink SINR or Co-UE nt min. measurement Non- interference, Noise and External definition RT Interference Level per UE (MU- New RIC MIMO pair histogram (SINR range: - measurement dB to + 30 dB) for 1,2, 3,…, K reporting UEs) O1 O-DU Percent time MU-MIMO UEs are at Perce 1 .. 15 [Dial24] New → maximum TX power and < 5 PRB nt min. measurement Non- (Ref. [3]) definition RT New RIC measurement reporting

# 3 Table 6.2.3.2-4. Dials for condition number
O1 O-DU MU-MIMO PRB Utilization Perce 1 .. 15 [Dial30] New → Histogram nt min. measurement Non- definition RT New RIC measurement reporting O1 O-DU Total PRB % Used Supporting MU- Perce 1 .. 15 [Dial31] New → MIMO histogram nt min. measurement Non- definition RT New RIC measurement reporting O1 O-DU MU-MIMO PDCP Volume Perce 1 .. 15 [Dial32] New → histogram nt min. measurement Non- definition RT New RIC measurement reporting O1 O-DU MU-MIMO DRB (DL and UL) Perce 1 .. 15 [Dial33] New → Throughput Histograms (min., ave., nt min. measurement Non- and max.) (100 kbps, 200, kbps, etc. definition RT 10 Gbps) vs. Mu-MIMO layers New RIC (1,2,….,K) measurement reporting O1 O-DU MU-MIMO Spectral Efficiency Perce 1 .. 15 [Dial34] New → (8*PDCP Volume/(BW*PRB nt min. measurement Non- utilization), bits/sec./Hz histogram definition RT over measurement period, where BW New RIC = bandwidth, Hz) note: all measurement parallel/paired PRBs count as one reporting over a TTI O1 O-DU SU-MIMO PRB distribution Perce 1 .. 15 [Dial35] New → histogram nt min. measurement Non- definition RT New RIC measurement reporting O1 O-DU SU-MIMO PDCP Volume (Mbytes) Perce 1 .. 15 [Dial36] New → histogram nt min. measurement Non- definition RT New RIC measurement reporting O1 O-DU SU-MIMO DRB (DL and UL) Perce 1 .. 15 [Dial37] New → Throughput (Kbits/sec.) Histogram nt min. measurement Non- as a function of Mu----------------- definition RT MIMO layers (1,2,…,K) New RIC measurement reporting O1 O-DU SU-MIMO Spectral Efficiency Perce 1 .. 15 [Dial38] New → (8*PDCP Volume/(BW*PRB) nt min. measurement Non- utilization ratio (bits/sec./Hz) definition RT histogram over measurement period, New RIC where BW = bandwidth, Hz) measurement reporting

# 13 O-RAN Entity roles:

# 14 1) SMO & Non-RT RIC
a) Collect existing configuration and performance data from RAN b) Trigger AI/ML Model training/update and deployment as necessary c) Apply MIMO pairing control recommendations from rApp via R1 and O1 interface using config management service.

# 19 2) O-CU nodes
a) Report current configuration and performance data to non-RT RIC rApp via O1 interface if required.

# 21 3) O-DU nodes
a) Report current configuration and performance data to non-RT RIC rApp via O1 interface. b) Apply MIMO pairing control related knobs based on rAPP recommendation.

# 25 Impact Analysis on O-RAN WGs
Editor’s note: This is an initial impact analysis as part of the WG1 UCTG work on mMIMO. The intention is to estimate the expected standardization effort within the O-RAN working groups. It is up to the WGs to decide how the mMIMO functionality should be specified in specifications of each WG, and whether it will be part of existing or new set of specifications.

# 4 WG2 (Non-RT RIC, A1, R1) Impact
- Assess impact to A1 and R1 interfaces and non-RT RIC architecture, including AI/ML training and deployment.
- Add new use cases and corresponding requirements and specifications in case there is an impact to A1 or R1
interfaces.

# 8 WG5 (O-CU and O-DU) Impact
- Assess impact on O-CU and O-DU support for dials and knobs described in the use-case.

# 10 WG10 (SMO, O1) Impact
- Assess impact with PM coordination group and IM/DM coordination group on support of proposed dials
(measurements) and knobs (configuration IM/DM) and incorporation in existing O1 interface models, as well as any required coordination with 3GPP. Summary: A detailed analysis of the specification impact is to be completed. There is large specification impact to specify new proposed measurement definitions and measurement reporting. The impact of the required measurements and configurations will be reduced if they are already part of ongoing/upcoming O-RAN specifications (ffs) or are being considered for specification in other bodies such as 3GPP (ffs).

# 7 Comparison and Conclusions
This Technical Report presents the results of the pre-normative phase mMIMO work item. Multiple mMIMO optimization algorithms have been analyzed, including beam-based Mobility Robustness Optimization, Grid of Beam Optimization, Non-Grid of Beam Optimization, L1/L2 Beam Management Optimization, AI/ML assisted optimized SS Burst Set,

# 5 DMRS and CSI-RS configuration.
Beam-based Mobility Robustness Optimization (bMRO) is an autonomous self-optimizing algorithm that improves beam- based inter-cell mobility performance by applying beam-specific Cell Individual Offsets (CIO) on the handover triggers between neighbor cells, based on the analysis of beam-specific mobility-related counters. The bMRO algorithm might be hosted in Non-RT RIC or Near-RT RIC. Based in mobility KPIs forwarded to the RIC from the O-CU, the RIC configures the beam-based CIO in the O-DUs. Simulation based evaluation shows a significant reduction in too early and too late handovers as well as a reduction of the total UE outage and mobility failure rate, as well as a reduced number of ping- pong handovers. The gain was shown for a mixed mobility (UEs with 3 km/h and 30 km/h) scenario in an urban micro deployment according to 3GPP TR38.901. The computational complexity and signaling overhead are a multiple of that of the legacy cell-based MRO where the multiplier is the number of beams that are supported in a cell. Complexity and signaling overhead can be reduced by enhanced proprietary implementations, e.g., forming virtual groups of beams with similar characteristics. bMRO is suggested for normative standardization with the foreseen impact on O-RAN WGs as outlined in Section 3.3.3. There is a dependency on completion of 3GPP Rel.17 for the completion of stage 3 in O-RAN. Grid of Beam Optimization (GoB) provides an automated beam forming configuration tailored to the topology of the cell, the physical environment, as well as the distribution of users and traffic in a cell (e.g. wide beams might cover low-density areas while narrow beams might cover high-density areas). The output of the algorithm are the optimized GoB BF configurations, that are, the number of beams and either i) the beam directions, horizontal & vertical beam widths, and power allocation of beams, or ii) the beam weights, transferred via the Open Fronthaul interface. The GoB algorithm might be hosted in Non-RT RIC or Near-RT RIC. First trial results show that the ML based beam pattern optimization algorithm can adapt to the traffic distribution and hence provides a significant gain in terms of weighted downlink RSRP. Uplink throughput enhancements are also expected since SSB beams are used for uplink receive beamforming. The gain was shown for NR TDD at 3.5 GHz with 1 to 20 UEs either stationary or with drive tests in a shopping street scenario. Different options for input parameters have been identified in the pre-normative phase, which are not supported by existing O-RAN and 3GPP specifications. The output parameters are supported by the existing O-RAN Open Fronthaul specification (i.e. O-FH M-Plane, O-FH CUS-Plane). GoB is suggested for normative standardization with the foreseen impact on O-RAN WGs as outlined in Section 3.2.3, while the preferred option for input parameter still needs to be analyzed and selected. Non-GoB optimization makes use of AI/ML techniques to optimize the beamforming algorithm for each UE, depending on UE and cell conditions. Multiple beamforming algorithm options exist, including both Grid of Beams and Non-Grid of Beams, the latter typically involving beam weights being calculated based on SRS measurements. This itself comprises multiple different algorithm options, which can have differing relative performance depending on UE conditions, cell conditions, SRS configuration, etc. Therefore, it is important that the optimal choice of beamforming algorithm option is applied for each UE. The non-GoB use case takes into account that such beamforming algorithms are generally proprietary and vendor specific. Training is assumed to be cell-based, residing in non-RT RIC, making use of measurements reported from O-DU as well as enrichment data obtained externally, for example related to location and mobility. Inferencing is assuming to be hosted in an xApp in near-RT RIC, based on similar measurements as for training, the output of which is the control of the beamforming modes that should be applied for a given UE. The control may be specified separately for multiple MIMO options (e.g. SU and MU). The update rate is assumed to be 100s of ms, considerably slower than the MAC scheduling update rate. Initial simulation results for a simple SU-MIMO case demonstrate the opportunity for significant performance gains by tailoring beamforming mode to the UE conditions. Per-UE measurement reporting might be specified in 3GPP specifications (e.g. 3GPP TS37.320) and referred to in O1/E2 specifications with limited or no impact on O-RAN specifications. Or per-UE measurement reporting might be specified in O-RAN specifications with small impact on WG3 and potentially moderate impact WG5. Non-GoB is suggested for normative standardization with the foreseen impact on O-RAN WGs as outlined in 5.2.3. In yet another optimization approach, AI/ML assisted network-wide (multi-gNB/TRP) optimizations framework proactively and autonomously infers optimal configuration per gNB/TRP for SS Burst Set, DMRS and CSI-RS based on available measurements, observations, and PIs at different nodes of the 3GPP NR and/or O-RAN access and core network elements. One of the preferred options is to train the AI/ML model offline in the SMO/Non-Real Time RIC. Trained model might be hosted in Non-Real Time RIC or Near-Real Time RIC depending on the selected optimization problem. For SS Burst Set configuration optimization, offline trained AI/ML model can be deployed in Non-Real Time RIC as rAPP. Based on the KPIs, observations and measurements from E2 nodes over O1 interface, inferred optimal SS Burst Set configuration is applied to E2 nodes (O-CU and/or O-DU) over O1 interface. Numerical analysis-based data presented as use case feasibility analysis shows that optimal configurations have potential to improve per-gNB/TRP spectral efficiency through saving time-frequency resources for both FR1 and FR2 systems with multiple transceiver chains. One of the design goals of the AI/ML optimizer is that it should target to limit the impacts on other system performances (e.g, initial access latency, maximum mobility support etc.) through operator defined KPI constrained optimization technique. Impacts on the R1 interface. For both DMRS and CSI-RS configuration optimization use cases, Near-Real Time RIC is considered as one of the preferred model deployment options. Optimal configurations can be generation every few tens of ms when needed by the E2 nodes. These configurations are UE specific. Trained model uses measurements, observations and PI generated by E2 nodes to derive the inference and applies back to E2 nodes over E2 interface. Numerical calculation-based analysis shows that optimal configurations can improve per-gNB/TRP spectral efficiency noticeably through saving time-frequency resources for both FR1 and FR2 systems with multiple transceiver chains. One important aspect of the optimizer is to limit the impacts on other system performances (e.g, maximum mobility support, time-frequency tracking accuracy etc.) through KPI (operator specified) constrained optimization techniques. Computational complexity for all three use cases described in this section depends on the size of training data set (measurement, observations and KPI data set) and the type of algorithm used. AI/ML assisted optimized SS Burst Set, DMRS and CSI-RS configuration is suggested for normative standardization with the foreseen impact on O-RAN WGs as outlined in section 3.4.2.1.1 and section 3.4.2.2.1. L1/L2 Beam Management Optimization will contribute to improved network performance in terms of throughput and reliability by utilizing AI/ML techniques to enable RAN to make wiser decision on UE-specific beam management operations. The beam management optimization algorithm could be used to estimate or predict the quality of beams based on limited beam measurement reported from O-DU as well as enrichment information (e.g., UE position and velocity) obtained externally, which allows beam selection with high accuracy and ensures reliable radio link against blockage, especially in mmWave. The output of algorithm will be the optimized control/policy related to beam management operations, which may potentially involve the configuration of beam measurement/reporting, beam indication and beam failure recovery, could be further study in the normative phase. Initial simulation results which assumed high-mobility urban street scenario show that the AI/ML-based solution can ensure beam tracking accuracy while significantly reducing beam measurement overhead. Different deployment options were discussed and compared (e.g., the AI/ML model training and inference can be hosted in the Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC respectively, or the AI/ML model training can be hosted in Non/Near-RT RIC while the AI/ML inference can be hosted in the E2 Nodes), which demonstrate different strengths and weaknesses. L1/L2 Beam Management Optimization is suggested for normative standardization with the foreseen impact on O-RAN WGs as outlined in Section 4.2.3.

## 7.1 Summary of Evaluation
Solution Means of evaluation Summary of result #of Input #of Output Parameters Parameters GoB Optimization Trial results with 1 to 20 UEs, 8.2 dB gain of 1 1 stationary or drive test, shopping street weighted RSRP (up to 3 options scenario might be defined) bMRO Optimization Detailed multi-cell system level simulation Gain against legacy MRO (incl. UE L3 mobility, detailed timers etc.) 58% less too-late HO 5 1 23% less too-early HO 3a GoB RRM SSB Opt. Numerical RS overhead analysis based on Max. potential gain (best vs. worst) 1 + 6 available numerologies in the 3GPP NR numerology neglecting other impact 9 (6 initialization) 3b GoB RRM DMRS Opt. Numerical RS overhead analysis based on Max. potential gain (best vs. worst) 1 + 2 available numerologies in the 3GPP NR numerology neglecting other impact 8 (2 initialization) 3c GoB RRM CSI-RS Opt. Numerical RS overhead analysis based on Max. potential gain (best vs. worst) 1 + 2 available numerologies in the 3GPP NR numerology neglecting other impact 8 (2 initialization) L1/2 Beam Management Urban street with 1 gNB @28 GHz, simplified No loss of beam measurement accuracy 1 UE mobility (60km/h fixed), different beam even for reduced beam measurement 7 (output options measurement periods period ffs) Non-GoB Optimization Simplified, single cell simulation, Single Max. potential gain against a fixed 1 + 3 suboptimum SU-MIMO fixed 2 layers mode suboptimum MIMO mode 7 (2 initialization + 1 (GoB vs. non-GoB mode) for 1 km/h and 120 1km/h: 2% av. & 60% 5%tile TP training) km/h 120km/h: 14% av. & 141% 5%tile TP (training config. ffs) DL Tx Power Opt. Simple single cell urban scenario at 2 GHz Different SINR received at UEs using MU- with 8 UEs with no inter-cell interference MIMO is shown. No results otherwise. 5 1

# 7 MU-MIMO User Pairing No No 40 16

# 8 SU-/MU-MIMO Switching No No 19 3

## 7.2 Impact on standardization
Solution # of new # of new # of new output # of new output O-RAN 3GPP Suggested split measurement measurement parameter parameter impact impact analysis between 3GPP / O-RAN definitions reporting definition 1) configuration2) analysis GoB Optimization 1 or 2 1 or 2 0 0 Yes Detailed analysis. O-RAN refers to 3GPP spec for measurements bMRO 5 (currently 5 (currently 1 (currently 1 (currently Detailed analysis. O-RAN refers to 3GPP Optimization discussed in discussed in discussed in discussed in Yes Rel.17 work spec for measurements 3GPP Rel.17) 3GPP Rel.17) 3GPP Rel.17) 3GPP Rel.17) ongoing. 3a GoB RRM SSB 4 6 0 1 + 1 (init.) Yes General analysis O-RAN refers to 3GPP Opt. spec for measurements 3b GoB RRM DMRS 2 5 0 1 + 2 (init.) Yes General analysis O-RAN refers to 3GPP Opt. spec for measurements 3c GoB RRM CSI- 3 6 0 1 + 2 (init.) Yes General analysis O-RAN refers to 3GPP RS Opt. spec for measurements L1/2 Beam 1 (optional) 4 0 1 Yes General analysis 2 Options Management Non-GoB 0 5 1 + 3 (init. + 1 +2 (init. + Yes General analysis 2 Options Optimization training) training) DL Tx Power Opt. 5 5 1 1 ffs ffs ffs MU-MIMO User 40 40 16 16 ffs ffs ffs Pairing

# 8 SU/MU-MIMO 19 19 3 3 ffs ffs ffs
Switching

## 7.3 Synergies among new measurements (definition and/or reporting)
Name Measured UE or cell specific GoB L1/2 Beam Non-GoB SSB, CSI-RS, MIMO Measurement at which reporting Opt. Management Opt. DM-RS Opt. Optimization synergies entity CSI report (e.g UE report per UE x x x x (histogram) 3 + 1 CQI, PMI, RI, LI, CRI) Channel O-DU per UE x x 2 Covariance Matrix L1-RSRP (SSB or UE report per UE x x x 3 CSI based) L1-SINR (SSB or UE report per UE x x x (histogram) 2 + 1 CSI based) UL SRS RSRP O-DU per UE x x 2


---

<!-- SOURCE: combined_oran_wg10.md -->
<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG10.TE&IV-UCR.0-R004-v03.01.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG10.TE&IV-UCR.0-R004-v03.01 Technical Specification O-RAN Work Group 10 (OAM for O-RAN) O-RAN Work Group 10"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in [i.1] and the following apply: Inventory: Inventory consists of information about planned, active and available networks, resources, services, their states, relationships, and specific properties. Topology: Topology consists of information about relationships and characteristics of services and resources, derived from inventory and from other SMO services. RAN Resources: RAN resources includes GNBDUFunction, GNBCUCPFunction, GNBCUUPFunction, NRCellCU, NRCellDU, NRSectorCarrier, NRCellRelation, NRFreqRelation, NRFrequency etc., as described in 3GPP 5G NRM [i.3], other ORAN NFs as described in [i.2]. NF Deployment: Based on term usage in [i.4], NF Deployment covers O-DU, O-CU-UP, O-CU-CP, near-RT RIC deployments in the O-Cloud. O-Cloud Resources: O-Cloud Resources include O-Cloud IMS model elements as depicted in the O-RAN IMS Interface [i.5]. TE&IV resources: TE&IV resources depict RAN resources, O-Cloud resources, and relationships with other RAN or O- Cloud resources etc., represented in topology and inventory models. Planned inventory: Represents the physical, logical, and virtual resources, their state, specific properties, and relationships, reserved for planned network realization. TE&IV Service Producer: The SMO Functions providing the TE&IV services and managing the inventory objects in the TE&IV Repositories. TE&IV Service Consumer: The SMO Consumer which uses TE&IV services.

## 3.2 Symbols
Void

## 3.3 Abbreviations
TE&IV: Topology Exposure and InVentory management

# 4 Use Case Description

## 4.1 O-RAN TE&IV Use Cases

### 4.1.1 Use case 1: O-RAN network provisioning

#### 4.1.1.1 Background and goal of the use case
The O-RAN Provisioning use case in WG10 OAM Architecture Specification [i.2] describes the sequence of steps to deploy and provision O-RAN NFs on physical/virtualized resources by leveraging the SMO Framework and O-Cloud management entities. The goal of this use case is to highlight the role of Topology Exposure (TE) and Inventory Management (IV) services during provisioning of O-RAN NFs. This use case leverages flows of O-RAN provisioning use case and highlights the interactions of O-RAN entities with TE&IV service producer. These interactions are for CRUD operations on inventory objects corresponding to the newly deployed NFs.
> NOTE: Throughout this document, as defined in [i.9], the term NF implies that it can be deployed as one of PNF or cloudified
NF. A cloudified NF can be realized via one or many NF Deployments, as per [i.9], which can be a VNF or a CNF.

#### 4.1.1.2 Entities/resource involved in the use case
The SMO Framework leverages TE &IV services within the SMO. TE&IV services maintain the state of O-RAN NFs in the TE&IV repositories, which will be used by TE&IV Service Consumers within the SMO Framework to derive the contextual information of the network. TE&IV services support CRUD operations on inventory objects in TE&IV repositories and interactions with TE&IV Service Consumers.

#### 4.1.1.3 Solutions
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal O-RAN network provisioning using TE&IV services <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use [1]. Service Management and Orchestration Framework: TE&IV Service Producer and TE&IV Service Consumer (such as Non-RT RIC Services, RAN NF OAM Services, O-Cloud Resources Management and Orchestration Services) [2]. O-Cloud: DMS Actors and Roles [3]. PNF (e.g., O-RU, O-DU) [4]. VNF (e.g., Near RT-RIC, xApps, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP) [5]. Consumers of the SMO services which are authorized to use TE&IV Service Producer services Common Topology and Inventory Model is available in TE&IV Service Producer EXAMPLE: For the purpose of this use case, the TE&IV inventory objects follow the Assumptions Inventory object status values highlighted in Annex A [1]. O-RAN Service Design completed as per WG10 OAM Architecture Specification Clause 4.2.1.3 [2]. O-RAN Network Planning completed as per Clause 4.1.5.3 and inventory objects are created with status as Planned [3]. The PNF is constructed/installed and ready to be registered and Activated [4]. The cloudified NF Software Package has been uploaded to the O-Cloud [5]. Secure network connectivity is already available between RAN components Pre-conditions [6]. O-DU and O-RU are PNFs and the inventory objects corresponding to these RAN Nodes are available in the TE&IV repositories with a Planned status and ready to be registered and activated [7]. On boarding of cloudified NF Descriptors to the O-Cloud is completed [8]. TE&IV Service Producer is ready to accept requests from TE&IV Service Consumers The personnel authorized for initiating the Network provisioning operation, decides to Begins when deploy an O-RAN network in specific geo-location e.g., location identified using TE&IV services. Refer to WG10 OAM Architecture Specification Clause 4.2.1.3 for details. O-RAN Service Deployment TE&IV Service Consumer sends a query to the TE&IV Service Producer to get Planned Step 1 (M) O-RAN Service inventory objects Step 2 (M) Response from TE&IV Service Producer with details of the Planned inventory objects TE&IV Service Consumer updates the inventory objects with deployment specific parameter values. The request also transitions the O-RAN Service inventory object Step 3 (O) status to Assigned.
> NOTE: It is assumed that any resource reservation if required is carried out at this stage
Step 4 (O) Confirmation of successful inventory object update in TE&IV Repository Deployment details of the O-RAN Service is omitted. Refer to the deployment details of cloudified NF and PNF described below in steps 4.1.1 to 4.1.6 (for cloudified NF) and 4.2.1 to 4.2.4 (for PNF Registration) In case of a successful deployment of the O-RAN Service, the TE&IV Service Consumer sends a request to TE&IV Service Producer to update the inventory object with the details of the O-RAN Service being deployed and the status of the corresponding inventory object is changed to Deployed. Step 5 (M) In case of a failure in deployment of O-RAN Service, the status of the O-RAN Service inventory objects remains Assigned so that the deployment can be re-initiated without repeated assignment of parameter values. The use case flow stops with the deployment failure. The subsequent flows are continued once the retry results in a successful deployment. Confirmation of the status update on O-RAN Service Inventory Object in TE&IV Step 6 (M) Repository After completion of the RAN Node deployment, once the status of the associated Step 7 (M) inventory objects are updated as Deployed, the O-RAN Service activation is initiated. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Refer to steps 4.1.7 to 4.1.10 for details of the cloudified NF and steps 4.2.5 to 4.2.8 for PNF. On successful completion of RAN Node activation, the status of the O-RAN Service inventory object is transitioned to Active. In case the O-RAN Service activation failed (or if any of the RAN Node activation failed), the status remains in Deployed. The use case flow stops with the activation failure of O- RAN Service. The subsequent flows are continued once the retry results in a successful activation. Confirmation of the status update on O-RAN Service Inventory Object in TE&IV Step 8 (M) Repository

## 4.1 Cloudified NF Deployment and Activation
For the cloudified NF (e.g., O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, Near-RT RIC, xApps etc.) deployment details refer to WG10 OAM Architecture Specification Clause 4.2.1.3 Steps 5-10 For the deployment of Cloudified NF (i.e VNF or CNF), the TE&IV Service Consumer Step 4.1.1 (O) retrieves planned inventory from TE&IV Repository Step 4.1.2 (O) TE&IV Service Producer responds with the Planned inventory details. Steps 11 - 18 is repeated for each cloudified NF deployed Step 4.1.3 (O) TE&IV Service Consumer updates the inventory objects with deployment specific parameter values. The status of the RAN Node inventory object is updated as Assigned. Step 4.1.4 (O) Confirmation of the RAN Node inventory object update in TE&IV Repository Step 4.1.5 (O) Once deployment of the RAN Node is completed, on successful completion TE&IV Service Consumer updates the RAN Node inventory object with deployment details and the status is changed to Deployed. In case of a failure in the deployment of the RAN Node, the status remains as Assigned so that the re-deployment can be initiated without re-assignment of the inventory object parameter values. Step 4.1.6 (M) Confirmation of the Status update of RAN Node as Deployed in TE&IV Repository Step 4.1.7 (M) RAN Node is provisioned with the runtime configuration. On successful completion of the provisioning, the TE&IV Service Consumer updates the status of the RAN Node inventory object as Active. In case of a failure the inventory object remains in the Deployed state. Step 4.1.8 (M) Confirmation of the Status update of RAN Node as Active in TE&IV Repository Step 4.1.9 (M) Once the management and control plane connectivity is established with the RAN Node, the TE&IV Service Consumer updates the planned topology object with the updated inventory details Step 4.1.10 (M) Confirmation of the Topology object update in TE&IV repository

## 4.2 PNF Registration & Activation
For the PNF (e.g., O-DU, O-RU) Deployment details refer to WG10 OAM Architecture Specification Clause 4.2.1.3 Steps 23-40 for details. Steps 19-26 are repeated for each PNF being deployed.
> NOTE: PNF details are assumed to be part of the planned inventory which is retrieved by
TE&IV Service Consumer in steps 1-2 Step 4.2.1 (O) TE&IV Service Consumer updates the inventory objects with deployment specific parameter values such as the RAN Node identifier. The status of the RAN Node inventory object is updated as Assigned. Step 4.2.2 (O) Confirmation of the RAN Node inventory object update in TE&IV Repository Step 4.2.3 (M) Once the PNF is powered on and the discovery and registration process is completed, the TE&IV Service Consumer updates the status of the RAN Node as Deployed. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Step 4.2.4(M) Confirmation of the status update of RAN Node as Deployed in TE&IV Repository. In case of a failure in discovery or registration of the PNF, the status of the RAN Node Inventory object remains as Assigned. Step 4.2.5 (M) After the registration of the PNF and once the provisioning of the PNF is successfully completed with the required runtime configuration, the TE&IV Service Consumer updates the status of the RAN Node inventory object as Active. In case of a failure in provisioning the PNF, the status of the inventory object remains as Deployed. Step 4.2.6 (M) Confirmation of the status update of RAN Node as Active in TE&IV Repository After the deployment and provisioning of RAN Node is completed, once the management Step 4.2.7 (O) and control plane connectivity are established with the RAN Node, the TE&IV Service Consumer updates the planned topology object with the updated inventory details Step 4.2.8 (O) Confirmation of the Topology object update in TE&IV repository Post deployment validation/verification Post deployment Test details of NFs and O-RAN Service are omitted Step 9 (O) (Continued from O- After the post deployment test execution and validation, the TE&IV Service Consumer RAN Service sends request to get the status for the corresponding inventory objects Provisioning Step 8) The status and other details of the inventory objects corresponding to RAN Nodes and O- Step 10 (O) RAN Service are provided and verified by the test executioner to certify and commission the deployment as successful or failure. All O-RAN Network Functions needed for service have been deployed and configured with the status of inventory objects as Active. In case of a failure, the specific stages of the deployment or provisioning are repeated with associated changes in the deployment Ends when stages. The SMO holds current inventory of all O-RAN network functions. Post deployment test results of the RAN Nodes and O-RAN Service are verified against the corresponding inventory object status and Topology objects Exceptions Not applicable Post Conditions The O-RAN network has been established and provides service to customers REQ -TE&IV-CRUDQ-FUN1, REQ -TE&IV-CRUDQ-FUN2, REQ -TE&IV-CRUDQ-FUN3, Traceability REQ-TE&IV-MODEL-FUN10

#### 4.1.1.4 Required Data
- A unique identifier is assigned during creation of TE&IV resource in the TE&IV repositories, which is returned by
the TE&IV Service Producer in the response for create operation.
- Representation of TE&IV resources in the TE&IV repositories may include, but not limited to the following:
o Unique identifier, name, lifecycle state of the resource etc.

### 4.1.2 Use case 2: Alarm query with TE&IV services
This use case is improvement of alarm query use case specified in R1UCR [i.6] with TE&IV services. This use case allows an rApp acting as service consumer to query identities of cells and NF Deployments in specific geo- location and then use retrieved identities to query alarm information.

#### 4.1.2.1 Background and goal of the use case
An rApp acting as service consumer can query from the RAN NF OAM information about an individual alarm, a set of alarms matching provided filtering criteria or all active alarms available in the alarm list. An rApp acting as TE&IV Service Consumer can query TE&IV Service Producer to get identities of cells and NF Deployments in specific geo-location.

#### 4.1.2.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case
1) RAN OAM-related functions a. Receives request to query alarm information, b. Responds with success or failure to the query of alarm information 2) rApp a. Initiates query of alarm information b. Initiates query to get identities of cells and NF Deployment in specific geo-location. 3) TE&IV Service Producer a. Exposes TE&IV services based on a Topology and Inventory Models and APIs, which offers among others the capability to provide the relationship between TE&IV resources and geo-location b. Consumes the data provided by the SMO functions (e.g., O1-related data, O2-related data, DME, SME) and exposes it via the Topology and Inventory Model and APIs.

#### 4.1.2.3 Solutions
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use case Query of alarm information of cells in a specific geo-location from RAN NF Goal OAM using data from TE&IV services [1]. rApp in the role of service consumer that queries alarm information. Actors and Roles [2]. RAN NF OAM provides alarm information in response to the alarm queries [3]. TE&IV Service Producer Assumptions n/a The rApp is deployed and authorized to query RAN NF OAM and TE&IV Preconditions Service Producer. Geo-location of cell and NF Deployment is available for query in the TE&IV Service Producer The rApp determines the need to query alarm information from cells in Begins when specific geo-location The rApp queries the TE&IV Service Producer for identities of cells and its Step 1 (M) associated NF deployments in specific geo-location TE&IV Service Producer validates the request and retrieves cells and its Step 2 (M) associated NF deployments in specific geo-location from the TE&IV repositories. TE&IV Service Producer returns the identities of cells and its associated Step 3 (M) NF Deployment instances. The rApp queries alarm information from the RAN NF OAM by providing Step 4 (M) the rAppId, NF Deployment/Cells and optional query information that determines the requested result set. Step 5 (M) The RAN NF OAM responds to the rApp with success along with the requested alarm information. Ends when The rApp has successfully queried the alarm information n/a Exceptions Post Conditions n/a Traceability REQ-TE&IV-MODEL-FUN6

#### 4.1.2.4 Required data
TE&IV Service Producer has the relationship information about the cells and NF deployments associated with geo-location. The query request to TE&IV Service Producer contains the geo-location [1], cell type and NF Deployment type. TE&IV service returns identities of the requested cell and its associated NF deployment in the requested geo-location. The Query alarm information request contains the rAppId and optional query information. The query information determines the requested alarm information, for instance a single alarm with a particular alarm ID, all alarms in the alarm list or a subset of these alarms that match a set of filtering parameters. The Query alarm information response contains the requested alarm information scoped by the query information provided in the request.

### 4.1.3 Use case 3: Terminate NF Deployment on O-Cloud

#### 4.1.3.1 Background and goal of the use-case
The goal of automation of lifecycle management of NFs is to attain service agility and lower operational costs in a service provider's network. Automated lifecycle management enables the service provider to deploy and terminate services within a short span of time. When services are terminated, the allocated resources and constituent NFs are terminated and become available for consumption by other services. This use case highlights the interaction of SMO with TE&IV services for deleting resources in the TE&IV repositories when NF Deployments are terminated on O-Cloud, based on the use case "Terminate Network Function on O-Cloud" in [i.9].

#### 4.1.3.2 Entities/resource involved in the use-case
SMO:
- TE&IV Service Producer - Exposes CRUD operations on TE&IV resources in TE&IV repositories
- SMOS Consumer (e.g., NFO) - Interacts with O-Cloud to perform life cycle management of NF Deployments
O-Cloud:
- DMS – Interacts with SMO for lifecycle management of NF Deployments

#### 4.1.3.3 Solutions
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use To delete an active NF from the TE&IV repository. This requires that the active NF is deactivated prior to termination of the NF deployment which allows for Goal the deletion of the inventory object associated with the NF from the TE&IV repository. Network Function Install Project Manager SMO: NFO, SMOS Consumer such as NFO, TE&IV Service Producer Actors and Roles O-Cloud: DMS Network Function [1]. The “Service Request” to the SMO includes the identifiers of the network function instance(s) to be terminated. [2]. The Network Function Install Project Manager has subscribed to receive notifications from the SMO [3]. The network function(s) to be terminated do not handle calls and do not provide services. SMOS Consumer (e.g., NFO) and DMS perform Assumptions the needed actions for terminating the NFs on the O-Cloud [4]. NF Termination is an asynchronous operation and SMOS Consumer notifies the TE&IV Service Producer about the termination status EXAMPLE: For the purpose of this use case, the TE&IV inventory objects f ollow the inventory object status model values highlighted in Annex A Pre-condition [1]. SMO is available Existing Network Function(s) are determined to be terminated on the O-Cloud Begins when and corresponding inventory object details are queried on TE&IV Service Producer Network Function Install Project Manager requests NFO to terminate the Step 1 (M) network function instance(s) by providing the identifiers of the network function instance(s). For each NF deployment associated with each Network Function in the Service Request, the steps 2 to 8 are executed. The details on how the SMOS Consumer and DMS perform the termination operation in O-Cloud is omitted. Refer to [i.9] clause 3.2.5 for more details.
> NOTE: NF Termination is an asynchronous process that may go through
multiple stages of operation. SMOS Consumer notifies TE&IV Service Producer when the NF is deactivated initially prior to graceful termination and resource deallocation. Step 2 (M) If TE&IV Service Producer subscribed to NF Deactivation events from SMOS Consumer, a notification is sent to TE&IV Service Producer indicating the deactivation status. Step 3 (M) TE&IV Service Producer updates the resource inventory object status in the TE&IV repositories (e.g., from Active to Deployed). TE&IV Service Producer sends the updated resource inventory object status Step 4 (M) to SMOS Consumer. If TE&IV Service Producer has not subscribed to SMOS Consumer notification, a request to update the resource inventory object status is sent to Step 5 (M) TE&IV Service Producer and the corresponding status change is updated on the TE&IV repositories (e.g., from Active to Deployed). Status of the inventory object update sent to SMOS Consumer. Step 6 (M) Steps 7 to 15 are for TE&IV Service operations after successful resource deallocation and termination of the NF in O-Cloud If TE&IV Service Producer subscribed to SMOS Consumer notifications, the Step 7 (M) termination completion notification is received by the TE&IV Service Producer. TE&IV Service Producer updates the status of the corresponding resource Step 8 (M) inventory object (e.g., Deployed to Assigned) Status of the inventory object update sent to SMOS Consumer Step 9 (M) If TE&IV Service Producer has not subscribed to TE&IV Service Consumer notification, a request to update the resource inventory object status is initiated Step 10 (M) by SMOS Consumer. The TE&IV Service Producer updates the resource inventory object status in TE&IV repositories (e.g., Deployed to Assigned) Status of the inventory object update sent to SMOS Consumer Step 11 (M) SMOS Consumer initiates request to delete the resource inventory objects Step 12 (O) from TE&IV repository TE&IV Service Producer deletes the corresponding resources from TE&IV Step 13 (O) repositories Status of the inventory object update sent to TE&IV Service Consumer Step 14 (O) Based on the subscription of NF termination status notification, SMOS Step 15 (M) Consumer notifies the Network Function Install Project Manager that the Network Function(s) have been terminated. Network Function(s) in the O-Cloud have been terminated. Ends when Exceptions None identified [1]. Network Function(s) have been terminated. Post Conditions [2]. The consumer may unsubscribe to receive notification related to terminated NF instance(s) from SMO. REQ -TE&IV-CRUDQ-FUN6 Traceability

#### 4.1.3.4 Required Data
TE&IV Service Producer may use the NF Deployment identifier to delete the inventory objects of the NF Deployments from TE&IV repositories.

### 4.1.4 Use case 4: Topology based alarm correlation
This use case provides the background, motivation, and requirements for Topology based alarm correlation, allowing operators to resolve or handle the alarms triggered through O1, O2 and M-Plane interface (in case of hybrid O-RU) using Topology Exposure and Inventory Management services, thereby reducing effort for root cause analysis of alarms.

#### 4.1.4.1 Background and goal of the use case
Faults are inevitable in big distributed system like O-RAN. Unhandled alarms will degrade the performance of the O-RAN network and will impact the users. It is important to quickly find the relationship between different alarms. Faults in O1 nodes are reported through O1 interface, faults in O-Cloud resources are reported through O2 interface and faults in the O-RU are reported through M-Plane interface. With disaggregated nature of O-RAN architecture, it becomes difficult to determine the relationship between alarms raised in O1 node or O-Cloud or O-RU. Topology and Inventory models with capability to show relationship between RAN resources, O-Cloud resources and transport resources is required to pinpoint the relationship between alarming resources. Sample scenario: Internal network switch failure in O-Cloud may impact NF Deployments which might affect the O-RAN network. Different alarms will be raised over O2, O1 and M-Plane interface as result of cascading effect of failure of an internal network switch in O-Cloud. Topology based alarm correlation can query the TE&IV Service Producer to understand the relationships between the topology/inventory resources and the alarmed resources. The objective of this use case is to leverage TE&IV services for alarm correlation to determine the root cause of a problem.

#### 4.1.4.2 Entities/resource involved in the use case
1) TE&IV Service Consumer (e.g., an rApp) a) Query the TE&IV Service Producer to get the relationship between alarmed resources 2) TE&IV Service Producer a) Exposes TE&IV services based on Topology and Inventory Models and APIs, which offers among others the capability to provide the relationship between resources provided by O1 nodes, O-Cloud and O-RU b) Consumes the data provided by the SMO functions (e.g., O1-related data, O2-related data, DME, SME) and exposes it via the Topology and Inventory Models and APIs

#### 4.1.4.3 Solutions
Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification <<Use>> Related Use Goal Alarm correlation using TE&IV services Actors and Roles [1]. TE&IV Service Consumer (e.g., an rApp) [2]. TE&IV Service Producer Assumptions [1]. All relevant functions and components are instantiated. [2]. TE&IV services are supported and active in the SMO. [3]. TE&IV Service Producer has an up-to-date view of the active alarm state list. [4]. Some of the O-Cloud resource data that is volatile and frequently changed inside O-Cloud is not stored in TE&IV. Pre Conditions Network is operational. TE&IV Service Producer has an up-to-date view of the O-RAN network including RAN resources, NF Deployments, O-Cloud resources, and transport resources Begins when Fault occurs in O-RU, O-DU, and O-Cloud Several alarms are received by TE&IV Service Consumer Step 1 (M) TE&IV Service Consumer queries the TE&IV Service Producer to get the NF Deployment instances using those O-Cloud resources that were indicated in the O-Cloud alarm resources Step 2 (M) TE&IV Service Producer returns the data on the NF Deployment instances using the faulty O-Cloud resources to the TE&IV Service Consumer. Step 3 (M) TE&IV Service Consumer queries the TE&IV Service Producer about the NF instances that were impacted by the O1 alarms Step 4 (M) TE&IV Service Producer returns to the TE&IV Service Consumer the list of NF instances Step 5 (M) TE&IV Service Consumer queries the TE&IV Service Producer to get the cells associated with impacted NF instances and connected O-RUs impacted by the M-Plane alarms. Step 6 (M) TE&IV Service Producer returns to the TE&IV Service Consumer the list of impacted O-RUs and cells. Ends when TE&IV Service Producer provided to the TE&IV Service Consumer all the requested data that correlated the faulty O-Cloud resources with the NF Deployment instances and ultimately with the cells that were using those O-Cloud resources. Exceptions None Identified Post Conditions TE&IV Service Consumer obtains the correlated alarm data between the faulty O-Cloud resources, O-RAN NFs, and the impacted cells. Traceability REQ-TE&IV-MODEL-FUN1, REQ-TE&IV-MODEL-FUN2, REQ-TE&IV- MODEL-FUN3, REQ-TE&IV-MODEL-FUN4, REQ-TE&IV-MODEL-FUN5, REQ-TE&IV-MODEL-FUN7, REQ-TE&IV-MODEL-FUN8, REQ-TE&IV- MODEL-FUN9, REQ-TE&IV-CRUDQ-FUN3

#### 4.1.4.4 Required data
TE&IV Service Producer has the information about the O-Cloud resources, the O-RAN NFs, and their associated NF Deployments. TE&IV Service Producer has information regarding the relationship between O-Cloud resources, the O-RAN NFs, and their associated NF Deployments. TE&IV Service Producer has the connectivity relationships information
- Between the O-RAN NFs
- Between the O-Cloud resources
TE&IV Service Producer has the logical resource relationship of RAN resources. TE&IV Service Producer has the identity information of TE&IV resources which enables correlation of the different identities used across different functions in SMO. TE&IV Service Producer provides fault state and associated properties of the TE&IV resources to reflect the result of alarm correlation.

### 4.1.5 Use case 5: O-RAN Network Planning

#### 4.1.5.1 Background and goal of the use case
Network planning enables CSPs to design, manage and optimize networks efficiently. Network planning and network design aim at ensuring that the new telecommunications network operates at optimum cost and has sufficient capacity and reliability to meet the needs of the subscriber and operator. With the advent of cloud native technologies and the ability to iterate and deploy quickly through containers, microservices etc., the time period between network planning and design to network deployment and realization has reduced significantly compared to the traditional process. The Inventory function supports the network planning process by storing and providing information regarding planned networks. TE&IV services enable bulk upload of network data to TE&IV repositories, which eases planning and deployment of large-scale networks. The objective of this use case is to illustrate the use of bulk upload services offered by TE&IV Service Producer during O- RAN network planning.
> NOTE: File format for bulk upload of network data is dependent on the common topology and inventory model and is not
covered in this specification.

#### 4.1.5.2 Entities/resource involved in the use case
1) Service Management and Orchestration – Supports the deployment of O-RAN NFs. 2) TE&IV Service Consumer - Manages TE&IV resources related to O-RAN NF state and configuration in the TE&IV repositories. The TE&IV Service Consumer may be an existing SMO Decoupled SMO service such as Non-RT RIC Services, RAN NF OAM Services, O-Cloud Resources Management and Orchestration Services. 3) TE&IV Service Producer - Exposes the capability for bulk upload of network data in the TE&IV repositories.

#### 4.1.5.3 Solutions
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Illustrate the role of TE&IV services in O-RAN network planning and Goal deployment [1]. Service Management and Orchestration Framework: TE&IV Service Producer, TE&IV Service Consumer Actors and Roles [2]. Consumers of the SMO Service such as Radio and Transport network designers, Radio and transport network planners, Field Technician, Network Operator [1]. The Service Management and Orchestration Framework and O-Cloud are connected and interact normally. [2]. O-DU and O-RU are PNFs. EXAMPLE: For the purpose of this use case, the TE&IV inventory Assumptions objects follow the Inventory object status model values highlighted in


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG10.TR.Cloud-Native-OAM.0-R004-v01.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG10.TR.Cloud-Native-OAM.0-R004-v01.00 O-RAN Work Group 10 (OAM for O-RAN)"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms
Forthepurposesofthepresentdocument,thetermsgivenin3GPPTR21.905[i.25]andthefollowingtermsapply: Telemetry:Theprocessofgatheringdataofasystemduringexecutionandcommunicatingittoaremotelocation. ©2025bytheO-RANALLIANCEe.V.Youruseissubjecttothecopyrightstatementonthecoverpageofthisspecification. 7
> NOTE:Telemetrydatacanbeusedtounderstandthebehaviorandperformanceofthesystem.

## 3.2 Symbols
Void

## 3.3 Abbreviations
Forthepurposesofthepresentdocument,theabbreviationsgivenin[i.1]andthefollowingapply: 3GPP 3rdGenerationPartnershipProject ASN.1 AbstractSyntaxNotationOne CI/CD ContinuousIntegration,ContinuousDelivery/ContinuousDeployment CM ConfigurationManagement DN DistinguishedName FM FaultManagement HTTP HyperTextTransferProtocol IOC InformationObjectClass IRP IntegrationReferencePoint JSON JavaScriptObjectNotation MnS ManagementService MOC ManagedObjectClass MOI ManagedObjectInstance NETCONF NETworkCONFigurationprotocol NRM NetworkResourceModel PM PerformanceManagementorPerformanceMeasurements RFC RequestForComments SBMA ServiceBasedManagementArchitecture SMO ServiceManagementandOrchestration SMOS SMOService SSH SecureShell TLS TransportLayerSecurity UML UnifiedModelingLanguage XML eXtensibleMarkupLanguage YAML YetAnotherMarkupLanguage YANG YetAnotherNextGeneration ©2025bytheO-RANALLIANCEe.V.Youruseissubjecttothecopyrightstatementonthecoverpageofthisspecification. 8

# 4 Analysis of Data Format

## 4.1 Background

### 4.1.1 MnS Component Type B
AManagementServiceComponentTypeBisdefinedinclause4.2.3.1of3GPPTS28.533[i.4]asreferringto managementinformationrepresentedbyinformationmodelsrepresentingthemanagedentities. Thedefinitiongoeson tostatethattheterminology“MnScomponenttypeB”isinterchangeablewiththeterm“NetworkResourceModel (NRM)”. TwoexamplesofNRMsaregiven,onebeingthegenericNRM3GPPTS28.622[i.6]andonebeingthe5G NRM3GPPTS28.541[i.5]. 3GPPTS32.156[i.8]definesamodelrepertoireforbuildingabstractinformationmodelsofnetworkresources. It outlinesasubsetoftheUnifiedModelingLanguage(UML)tobeusedinmodeldevelopment. Itdefinesthestereotype InformationObjectClass(IOC)asakeybuildingblockforinformationmodels. TodefineanewIOC,amodelergives itaclassnameandanassociatedtableofattributes,eachofwhichcantakeonarangeofusuallyprimitiveorsimple compoundvaluesaccordingtoitsdatatype. Therepertoirealsodefinesthe<<names>>stereotypeassociationwhich allowsoneclasstoname-containotherclasses. Thename-containmentrelationshipcanbesingle(representedwith [ParentIOC]1<<names>>0..1[ChildIOC]intheUMLdiagram)ormultiple(representedwith[ParentIOC]1 <<names>>*[ChildIOC]intheUMLdiagram). Typically,whena3GPPdocumentdefinesacollectionofIOCs,the name-containmentrelationshipsarespecifiedwithacollectionofdiagramsinaseparateclauseofthedocumentfrom theper-IOCclausesthatdefinetheattributesofeachnewclass. ReferencestospecificobjectinstancesareimplementedwiththeconceptofaDistinguishedName(DN)fromthe X.500familyofspecifications[i.2]. Referencestospecificobjectinstancesareimportanttoexpressanon-containment associationfromoneobjectinstancetoanother,aswellastoindicatewhichobjectisthesubjectofamanagement operationasdescribedinclause5. ADNasusedbythenameconventionformanagedobjects3GPPTS32.300[i.10]is asequenceofAttributeType,AttributeValuepairs;theAttributeTypeisastringcontainingtheclassnameofthe ChildIOC,andtheAttributeValueisastringcontainingthevalueofthedesignated“namingattribute”oftheChildIOC. This“namingattribute”isusuallycalled“id”.

### 4.1.2 Current Solution Set Methodology for Component Type B
Toenableactualmanagementofanetworkresource,theabstractinformationmodelmustbeconvertedintoaStage3 specificationthatenablesinteroperableimplementationsofmanagementoperationsonthemodeleddata. Severalso- calledSolutionSetshavebeendefinedby3GPP,includingbasedonCORBA,NETCONF/YANG,andOpenAPI[i.aaa, i.ee]. Belowweoutlinetheconventionsinthe3GPPmanagementservicestemplate[i.eee]forOpenAPI/JSONschema andNETCONF/YANGevenifcurrentO1specification[i.1]mandatestheuseoftheYANGStage3solutionsetrather thantheOpenAPI/YAMLStage3solutionset.

#### 4.1.2.1 OpenAPI/JSON Schema Data Models
AfragmentofanexampleOpenAPI/JSONSchemaisshownbelow: DemoFunction-Single: allOf: -$ref:'TS28623_GenericNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/Top' -type:object properties: attributes: allOf: -$ref:'TS28623_GenericNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/ManagedFunction-Attr' -type:object properties: demoId: $ref:'#/components/schemas/DemoId' demoFlag: type:boolean ©2025bytheO-RANALLIANCEe.V.Youruseissubjecttothecopyrightstatementonthecoverpageofthisspecification. 9 exampleConf: $ref:'#/components/schemas/ExampleConf' -$ref:'TS28623_GenericNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/ManagedFunction-ncO' -type:object properties: ChildClass: $ref:'#/components/schemas/ChildClass-Multiple' AnotherChildClass: $ref:'#/components/schemas/AnotherChildClass-Single' Here,aDemoFunction-SingleManagedObjectClass(MOC)ofthesolutionsetisdefinedcorrespondingtothe DemoFunctionInformationObjectClass(IOC)fromtheinformationmodel. AManagedObjectInstance(MOI)ofa DemoFunction-SinglewillbeaJSONobjectthatconformstotheTopMOC(whichdefinestheidnamingattribute)and willalsocontainanattributespropertyobject. TheattributesobjectconformstothebaseclassManagedFunction-Attr andalsocontainsasetofpropertiesdefinedfortheDemoFunctionincludingdemoId,demoFlag,andexampleConf. Inadditiontotheattributesobject,aDemoFunction-SingleconformstothetheManagedFunction-nc0MOCandhas additionalpropertiescorrespondingtothename-containmentrelationsdefinedintheUMLdiagramforthe DemoFunctionIOC,includingmultipleChildClassandasingleAnotherChildClass.

#### 4.1.2.2 NETCONF/YANG Data Models
AfragmentoftheNETCONF/YANGfromthe5GNRM[i.5]isshownbelow: moduledemofunction{ … groupingDemoFunctionGrp{ description"RepresentstheDemoFunctionIOC."; reference"Example"; usesmf3gpp:ManagedFunctionGrp; leafdemoId{ typeint64{range"0..68719476735";} mandatorytrue; description"UniquelyidentifiestheDemoObjectatleastwithinagNB."; reference"Example”; } leafdemoFlag{ typeboolean; mandatorytrue; description“Turnsonsomething”; reference“Example”; } listexampleConf{ keyconfId; configfalse; min-elements1; max-elements1; description"Usedtoconfiguresomething"; usesExampleConfGrp; } } augment"/me3gpp:ManagedElement"{ listDemoFunction{ keyid; description"RepresentsthelogicalDemofunctionofgNBoren-gNB."; reference"Example"; usestop3gpp:Top_Grp; ©2025bytheO-RANALLIANCEe.V.Youruseissubjecttothecopyrightstatementonthecoverpageofthisspecification. 10 containerattributes{ usesDemoFunctionGrp; } usesmf3gpp:ManagedFunctionContainedClasses; } } } Here,theattributesfromtheDemoFunctionIOCaredefinedinsideaYANGgroupingDemoFunctionGrp,whichinturn isplacedinsideaYANGcontainernamedattributeswithineachelementofalistofDemoFunctions. Themodule augmentsthebaseManagedElementmoduletocontainsuchalist,whichmeansthatanyNETCONFserverclaimingto implementthedemofunctionmaycontainalistofDemoFunctionsinsideitsManagedElement. Notethatwiththisapproach,thedefinitionofanMOCdoesnotdeclareitschildname-containmentrelationships,but ratherexpressesitsparent’snamecontainmentrelationsofitself. ThisisincontrasttotheOpenAPI/JSONSchema approachwherethechildname-containmentrelationsaregivenintheparentMOC.

### 4.1.3 Extensibility
O1specificationsreferto3GPPmodelsforthemodellingofthelogicalRANentities.3GPPNRMmodelsaredefined in3GPPTS28.621[i.16]and28.622[i.6],relatedYANGsolutionsetisdefinedinTS28.623whileYANGmapping rulesandvendorextensionmechanismsaredefinedinTS32.160[i.9]. Each3GPPsolutionsethasdefineditsownsetofmappingrulesandvendorextensionmechanismstoprovidea consistentsetofmodels. Extensibilitymechanismscanbeusedtoaddnon-standardizedcontentsthroughvendorspecificentitiesinadditionto thestandardizedones. Ingeneral,the3GPPVendorspecificextensibilitymechanismscanbeusedbyavendororbyanSDO.Inthecontextof O-RANAlliance,theO-RANAlliancecommunitycanusevendorspecificextensibilitymechanismsanddefineanew standardizeddatamodelasO-RANYANGmodules.AnO1producerorconsumertobeO1compliantwillhaveto supportnewstandardizeddatamodels. Vendorextensionstoa3GPPYANGmodulecanbedoneto: 1)Markingina3GPPYANGmodulesas“notsupported”anyoptionalelementaccordingtosupportQualifier and/oranydeviationsthatmaintainbackwardcompatibilityasdefinedinRFC7950 Vendorextensionstoa3GPPYANGmoduleshallbedoneinaseparateYANGmoduleusingaugmentationmechanism: 1)Addvendorspecificattributestoa3GPPspecifiedIOC 2)AddanewvendorspecificIOC Incase2and3,thevendorextensionsarenamecontainedinanexisting3GPPIOCandthenewIOCshallfollow3GPP TS32.160[i.9]methodology. 3GPPTS32.160[i.9]providesexamplesofcase2)and3)asfollows: Example1–Addavendorspecificattributetoa3GPPspecifiedIOC: augment/me3gpp:ManagedElement/attributes{ leafisCabinetClosed{ typeboolean; description“IndicateswhetherthedoorsoftheHWcabinetisclosed.”; } } Example2–AddavendorspecificIOC: //vendorclass groupingVendorClassGrp{ ©2025bytheO-RANALLIANCEe.V.Youruseissubjecttothecopyrightstatementonthecoverpageofthisspecification. 11 //containsallattributes leafexampleAttribute{ typestring; descriptionvendorMarker; } } augment/me3gpp:ManagedElement{ listVendorClass{ keyid; usestop3gpp:Top_Grp; containerattributes{ usesVendorClassGrp; } //YANGlistsrepresentingcontainedclasses } } O-RANhasalreadydefinedextensionsto3GPPYANGmodules,applying3GPPextensibilityprinciplesandhas providedO-RANdefinedYANGmodules.Forexample,the o-ran_3gpp-nr-nrm-gnbdufunction.yangmoduleisan extensionofthe3gpp-nr-nrm-gnbdufunction.yangmodulewhere theattributesofthe3GPP ManagedElement/gnbdu3gpp:GNBDUFunctionIOChavebeenaugementedwithadditionalO-RANspecificattributes (i.e.mac-configuration-group)tobeusedwithO-RANspecificnamespace(i.e.o-ran:oran-gnbdufunction).Thisisan exampleofO-RANAllianceextensionoftype2)above. Exemple3–Addvendorspecificaugment "/me3gpp:ManagedElement/gnbdu3gpp:GNBDUFunction/gnbdu3gpp:attributes"{ when"(derived-from-or-self(/hw:hardware/hw:component/hw:class,'o-ran-hw:O-DU-COMPONENT'))"; container o-ran-configuration{ usesmac-configuration-group; description"Containerforo-ran-configuration.TheseareconfiguredwhenO-DUiscompliantwithO1interfacespec forO-DU."; } }

## 4.2 Issues and Recommendations

### 4.2.1 Non-3GPP Information and Data Models
Theinformationmodelingmethodologyandsolutionsetsdescribedinclause4.1leadtoaveryparticularandstylized useofYANGandOpenAPIconstructswhenspecifyingdatamodels.Thisarisesbecauseoftheseparationofthe attributesofanIOCfromthename-containedrelationshipstootherIOCs,andtheenforcementofthisseparationwith conventionssuchasdeclaringan“attributes”containerforeachMOCandexpressingname-containmentwithproperty names(inthecaseofOpenAPI/YAML)orthe“augments”construct(inthecaseofYANG).(ThecurrentO1 specificationmandatestheuseoftheYANGStage3solutionsetratherthantheOpenAPI/YAMLStage3solutionset andsowerestrictourdiscussiontotheYANGStage3solutionsetinwhatfollows). Non-3GPPSDOsdonotnecessarilyfollowthe3GPPmethodologyofseparatelymodelingtheinformationtobe managedatanabstractlevelandthenmappingthesemodelsintosolutionsets. Indeed,manyextantYANG specificationsfromtheIETFcommunityarewrittenandediteddirectlyinYANGandmakeuseofthefullpowerofthat notationtodefinedatamodelsthat,forinstance,donotplaceattributesintoacontainernamed“attributes”andwhich don’tenforcename-containmentconventions. TheO-RANAllianceWG4hasdevelopedsuchamodelfortheOpenFH M-plane. Finally,vendor-specificYANGmodelsalsoexistforwhichnopriorinformationmodelwasdeveloped. Itisnotimmediatelyobviousthatnon-3GPPdatamodelsneedtobemanagedviatheO1interface. Perhaps,these modelscanalwaysberelegatedtobeingmanagedoverotherinterfaces. Forexample,theOpenFHM-planeisdepicted ©2025bytheO-RANALLIANCEe.V.Youruseissubjecttothecopyrightstatementonthecoverpageofthisspecification. 12 asitsowninterface,separatefromO1,andtransportelementsthatarelikelytomakeuseofIETF-definedmodelscould bemanagedsolelythroughaspecificinterface(notO1)dedicatedtothatpurpose.However,non-3GPPdatamodels mayinfacttouchtheO1interfaceinseveralways: 1. FortheHierarchicalO-RUmanagementmodel,theO-DUexposestheO-RUstotheSMOviaitsownO1 interface[i.13]. ThishasledO-RANWG5toproposetheembeddingoftheWG4OpenFHM-planedata modelonaschemamount-pointwithinthe3GPP-compliantO-DUdatamodel[i.14]. Operationsthatmodify thedatainsidetheschemamountcannotrefertoMOIsbydistinguishednamebecausetheOpenFHM-planeis notstructuredasname-containedMOIs. 2. Althoughthetransportelementsthemselvesmaybemanagedwithaseparateinterface,theO-RANNetwork Functionsmayneedtoborrowsomeofthedatamodelstoallowforconfigurationoftheconnectionpoints wheretheytouchthetransportnetwork. BorrowingthesemodelsliterallyfromotherdomainsliketheIETF insteadofdefiningnew3GPP-compliantoneswouldleadtosimplifiedoperationalworkflows. Again,these modelsmaynotbestructuredasname-containedMOIs. 3. Anyotherdatamodels,suchasvendor-specificYANGs,thatwerenotdevelopedaccordingtothemethodology in32.156mayalsohavetheirowninherentstructurewhichdoesnotfollowthename-containedMOI conventions.TheseYANGmodelsmaybeembeddedina3GPPorORAN-compliantdatamodel,ortheymay appearasaseparatetreerootedatthetoplevelofthemanagementservice. Currently,theO-RANOAMArchitecture[i.13]andO1interfacespecification[i.1]definetheO1interfacefor managementofO-RANNetworkFunctionsasacollectionofSBMA-compliantManagementServices. Theexisting Stage2operationsandStage3solutionsetsdefinedin3GPP28.532[i.3]assumethattheManagementComponent TypeB(NRM)wasdevelopedaccordingtothe3GPPmethodologyoutlinedinclause4.1,andthereforecannotbeused directlytomanagedatawithoutdistinctattributesandname-containedMOIs.Onefundamentalreasonisthat,as outlinedin3GPPTS32.300[i.10]clause4.1,thenamesofManagedObjects,intheformofDistinguishedNames,are passedacrossvariousIntegrationReferencePoints(IRPs)andarefundamentaltothedefinitionoftheoperationsand cross-referencesbetweenobjects.Theselimitationswillbefurtheroutlinedinclause5ofthepresentdocument.

#### 4.2.1.1 Issue Summary
Consideringdatamodelsingeneralandtheoretically,andwithoutdeclaringanynormativerequirementsinthisclause, datatobemanagedcouldtakeanyofthefollowingforms,indecreasingorderofstrictness: 1. Structureddata(e.g.,JSONorXMLdata)thatconformtoastandardized3GPPInformationModelandaYANG datamodeldevelopedinconformancetotheconventionsoutlinedin3GPP32.160; 2. Structureddata(e.g.,JSONorXMLdata)thatconformtoastandardizedYANGdatamodelthatwasdeveloped outsideof3GPPconventions,suchasintheIETForO-RANWG4; 3. Structureddata(e.g.,JSONorXMLdata)thatconformtoanon-standardizedYANGdatamodelthatwas developedoutsideof3GPPconventions,suchasavendor-specificmodel; 4. Structureddata(e.g.,JSONorXMLdata)thatdonothaveaYANGdatamodel; Managementofevenmorelooselystructuredorunstructureddataisalsoatheoreticalpossibilitybutisoutofscopefor now. Becauseeachofthelisteddatamodelsetsisasubsetoftheonethatcomesafter,anymanagementschemethat handlesoneoftheabovesetsofdatamodelscanalsohandleanyoftheoneslistedbeforeit.

#### 4.2.1.2 Recommendations
WeconcludethatO-RANmanagementsystemsandinterfacesshouldbecapableofmanaginganydataoftypes1–2 fromclause4.2.1.1.

# 5 Analysis of Management Operations

## 5.1 Background

### 5.1.1 MnS Component Type A ManagementServiceComponentTypeAisdefinedinclause4.2.2ofthe3GPPmanagementandorchestration
architectureframework3GPPTS28.533[i.4]asagroupofmanagementoperationsand/ornotificationsthatisagnostic withregardtotheentitiesmanaged. By“agnostic”itismeantthattheoperationsand/ornotificationscanbedefined ©2025bytheO-RANALLIANCEe.V.Youruseissubjecttothecopyrightstatementonthecoverpageofthisspecification. 13 independentlyofanyparticularNRM(componenttypeB)becausethemanagedobjectinstancesandtheirdataare carriedinthepayloadoftheoperations(“signatureoftheoperations”,inthewordsofthearchitectureframework),but theoperationsthemselvescanbeappliedtomanydifferentNRMs. The3GPPgenericmanagementservicespecification3GPPTS28.532[i.3],forexample,definesagenericprovisioning managementservice. Inthestage2levelofspecificationinclause11.1of28.532,theoperations,notifications,and theirparametersaredescribedwithoutregardtohowtheywouldbeencodedinastage3solutionset. Laterinclause 12.1,aRESTfulHTTP-basedsolutionsetisdefinedthatdescribeshowtoencodetheseparametersintoanHTTP protocol. Inclause12.1.3,itisspecifiedhowtheseoperationsandparameterswouldbeencodedinaYANG/Netconf- basedsolutionset. Thestage2specificationofthegenericprovisioningmanagementservicedefinestheoperationscreateMOI, getMOIAttributes,modifyMOIAttributes,anddeleteMOI,andthenotificationsnotifyMOICreation,notifyMOIDeletion, notifyMOIAttributeValueChanges,notifyEvent,andnotifyMOIChanges. Forillustrativepurposes,wereproducethe inputandoutputparametertablesforthecreateMOIoperationbelow: Table5.1.1-1:InputparametersofthecreateMOIoperation(fromclause11.1.1.1.2of28.532[i.3]) InformationType/ ParameterName S Comment LegalValues managedObjectClass M class Thisparameterspecifiestheclassofthenewmanaged objectinstance. managedObjectInstance M DN Thisparameterspecifiestheinstanceofthemanagedobject thatistobecreatedandregistered.ThisisafullDN accordingto3GPPTS32.300[5]. attributeListIn M LISTOF Thisparametermayhaveanullvalue.Whenthisparameter SEQUENCE< issupplied,itcontainsalistofname/valuepairsspecifying attributename, attributeidentifiersandtheirvaluestobeassignedtothe attributevalue> newmanagedobject.Thesevaluesoverridethevaluesfor thecorrespondingattributesderivedfromthedefaultvalue setspecifiedinthedefinitionofthemanagedobject'sclass. Table5.1.1-2:OutputparametersofthecreateMOIoperation(fromclause11.1.1.1.3of28.532[i.3]) MatchingInformation/Legal Parametername S Comment Values attributeListOut M LISTOFSEQUENCE<attribute Thislistofname/valuepairscontainstheattributesof name,attributevalue> thenewmanagedobjectandtheactualvalue assignedtoeach. status M ENUM(OperationSucceeded, OperationFailed)

### 5.1.2 Relationship Between Component Type A and Component Type B
AscanbeseenbyinspectingtheoperationparametersinTable5.1.2-1andTable5.1.2-2,itisclearthatwhilethe createMOIoperationcanbeappliedtoanyNRMthatwasdevelopedaccordingtothe3GPPmethodologydescribedin clause4.1,thisparticularcomponenttypeAdependsoncertainassumptionsinherentinthe3GPPdesignmethodology; namely,thatmanagedobjectinstancesareinstancesofamanagedobjectclassandcanbeuniquelyidentifiedthrough theirdistinguishednames. ThisparticularcomponenttypeAalsoassumesthatthedatatobemanagedisstructuredasa setofnamedattributescontainedinthemanagedobjectinstance. ©2025bytheO-RANALLIANCEe.V.Youruseissubjecttothecopyrightstatementonthecoverpageofthisspecification. 14

## 5.2 Common Issues and Recommendations

### 5.2.1 Declarative vs. Imperative Pattern

#### 5.2.1.1 Introduction
DeclarativeandImperativepatternsaredifferentparadigmsthatdescribewhetherornottodescribethe “how”.Inoperationsapplyinganimperativepattern,the“how”isdescribedexplicitlybystep-by-step instructions;inoperationsapplyingadeclarativepattern,thedesiredstateismanaged,withoutexplicitly describingabout“how”toachieveit. Inthecontextofthisspecification,thedeclarativepatternprovidestheabstractiontogettheelementtothe desiredstate.Forexample,declarativepatternforconfigurationmanagementinvolvesspecifyingthedesired configurationstateratherthanexplicitlydetailingthestepsneededtoachievethatstate.

#### 5.2.1.2 Issue Summary
ThisclausedescribestheissuesrelatedtothenatureofImperativePatternofStage3Provisioningoperationsreferredin requirementsofManagementServicesdefinedinO1Specifications,butanefforttopavewaytowardstheusageof DeclarativePatternstoachievethoseO1Specifiedoperations.Thisbenefitstheconsumerstopreparethedataandnot dependuponthespecificimplementationofProvisioningoperationsusingYANG/NETCONFsolutionset. Table5.2.1.2-1:SummaryofIssuesofImperativeOperatingPatternsacrossvariousO1Specified ManagementServices ListofServices(O1Specified) Communication IssueDescriptionwithImperativePatternofOperations Patterns ProvisioningManagementServices "Request- ThiscommunicationpatternrequiresConnection-Oriented response" OperationbetweenMnSConsumerandMnSProducer.The  CreateManagedObject imperativenatureofoperatingpatternsassociatedwith Instance "Subscribe-notify" ProvisioningManagementServicesreflectintheusageofthe  ModifyManagedObject imperativeprimitivesofferedbythesolutionset,thatincurs InstanceAttributes upontheMnSconsumertotakedecisionsof‘when’and  DeleteManagedObject ‘which’primitivetousetoachieveacertaindesiredstate.The Instance issueisthatoperationsofthesolutionsetareimperativein  ReadManagedObject natureanddoesnotgiveanoptionfortheProducerof InstanceAttributes  SubscriptionControl(for ConfigurationData(e.g.anrApp)tojustoutputthedesired modificationofMOI) state,i.e.,themodifiedconfigurationdata,thattheConsumer ofConfigurationDatacanconsume. e.g.,anrAppthathastoshutdownacertaincellforthe purposeofEnergySavingknowstheoptimizationparameterto updateandneednotbotherwiththeimperativeapproachand thespecificflowofhowtomakesuchanupdate.Allthatthe rApptrulyrequiresistocreatethedesiredstate. So,theimperativepatternofoperationsenforcesthe consumertostrictlyfollowtheoperationmethodsofthe solutionsettoachieveacertaindesiredstate.
> NOTE:Thecolumn‘CommunicationPattern’referstoclause5.1.2Interactionsbetweenmanagementserviceproducer
andmanagementserviceconsumerof3GPPTS28.533[i.4].

#### 5.2.1.3 Recommendations
WeconcludethatSMOshouldusedeclarativeoperationpatternstoprovisionthedesiredstateinformofstructureddata (e.g.,JSONorXMLdata),accordingtoclause4.2.1.1ofthepresentdocument.ConsumersofConfigurationData,such asrApp,cancreatesuchdesiredstateanditisrecommendedtoapplyadeclarativepatternthroughmechanismsofthe O-Cloud. ©2025bytheO-RANALLIANCEe.V.Youruseissubjecttothecopyrightstatementonthecoverpageofthisspecification. 15

## 5.3 Configuration Management

### 5.3.1 Configuration Repository as Source of Truth

#### 5.3.1.1 Overview
AlogicallycentralizedentityorrepositoryhostingthedesiredconfigurationsforO-RANNFsintendedtobefurther synchronizedtoatargetNFresidinginanO-Cloudenvironmentbasedonadeclarativedescription.Itisreferredas logicallycentralizedbecausetherealizationoftherepositoryforconfigurationcanbemultipleanddistributed. ConfigurationrepositoryisreferredasasourceoftruthinthecontextofconfigurationdataofNFsandconfiguration datarelatedtoO-Cloud. Suchconfigurationrepositoryenablesaccesstotheconfigurationdatatoconsumerofconfigurationdata.Inthecontext ofprovisioningofconfigurationdata,theproducerofprovisioningmanagementservicesusestheconfiguration repositorytostoretheconfigurationdata. Theconfigurationrepository  enablesstoringtheconfigurationdatafromthesourceofconfigurationchanges[consumerofprovisioningMnS],  hoststheartifactsofconfiguration(e.g.day1,day2,etc.),  enablesdeliveryofconfigurationdatatothetargetNFs,basedondeclarativeapproach,and  exposesoperationstosupportcreate/update/read/deleteconfigurationdata. Theconsumerofprovisioningmanagementservicescanusemethodstopushdataofdesiredconfigurationtothe configurationrepository. Thedesiredconfigurationcreated/modifiedontheconfigurationrepository,canthenbe synchronizedtothetargetO-RANNF(s).

#### 5.3.1.2 Issue Summary
Thisclausedescribestheissuesrelatedtothenatureofoperationsrequiredbetweentheconsumerofprovisioning managementservicesandproducerofprovisioningmanagementservices,andissuesassociatedwithcarryingoutthe operationproceduresdefinedinstage3provisioningoperationsof3GPPTS28.532[i.3]referredinO-RAN.WG10.O1- Interface[i.1]inclause6.1.0Overview. Whenaconsumerofprovisioningmanagementservicesdeterminestoinvokeacertainprovisioningoperation,for instance,tomodifyorretrieveaconfigurationparameteronasetofmanagedobjectinstances(e.g.,anumberofNR cellsdata),ithastoidentifythedestinationofprovisioningMnFpeerstosendtheoperationrequest. ThekeyissueinsuchinterworkingwiththeprovisioningMnFarerelatedtotransportofoperationsandareoutlinedin clause5.3.3.2IssueSummaryofthepresentdocument.

#### 5.3.1.3 Potential solution
Basedonthedeploymentscenariolistedin3GPPTS28.533[i.4],theconfigurationrepositorycanbeplacedasshown belowinthecurrentOAMarchitecturetoworkwiththeconsumerofprovisioningMnS. Thepotentialsolutionforthe keyissueidentifiedintheaboveclause(5.3.1.2IssueSummary)isaddressedintheclause5.3.3.3potentialsolutionof thepresentdocument. ©2025bytheO-RANALLIANCEe.V.Youruseissubjecttothecopyrightstatementonthecoverpageofthisspecification. 16 Figure5.3.1.3-1:InterconnectDiagramforO1ProvisioningMnS

### 5.3.2 Configuration Data Changes and Consumers

#### 5.3.2.1 Overview
IntheO-RANsystem,MOIsarerepresentingthemanagementaspectsofanO-RANNFinstance.ChangesintheMOIs ofO-RANNFsmayoccurforreasonsincluding,butnotlimitedto,thefollowing: 1)SoftwareUpdatesandUpgrades:O-RANNFsandrAPPs/xAPPsupdateandupgrademayresultinMOIsvalue andstatuschange. 2)RANScaling:NewO-RANNFdeployment,scaling,migrationorotherLCMoperationsinresponsetothe capacityoptimizationrequirement,theO-RANNFLCMmaytriggerconfigurationchangesreflectedinthe O-RANNFMOI,e,g.,vnfParametersListmodificationsasdefinedin[i.6]. 3)FaultRecovery:IntheeventofaNFfault,configurationchangesmaybeneededtoisolateproblematicNFs,or enablefaultrecovery. 4)SecurityUpdates:Theencryptionsettingsasonekindofconfigurationdatawillbeupdatedwiththe developmentofnewintegrityandencyptionalgorithms. 5)IntegrationofNewTechnologies/Features:Theintegrationofnewtechnologies,suchastheintroductionofnew spectrumbands,CarrierAggregation(CA),sidelink,networkslice,etc.,usuallyrequiresconfiguration changestothecorrespondingfeatures. 6)AutomatedRANManagement:WiththeintroductionofAI/MLinRAN,networksareprogressivelybecoming automated.InO-RAN,configurationchangescanbetriggeredbyCI/CDpipelines,Non-RTRICforRAN datacollection,automatedconfiguration/optimization(e.g.,C-SON,D-SON),aswellastriggeredbythe deploymentandremovalofxAPPs. ThesourcesofconfigurationdatachangesummarizedabovewillresultintheMOIcreation,deletion,andupdatingof MOIattributes.ChangesinMOIsarereportedwiththeNotifyManagedObjectInstanceChangesmessageviatheO1 ©2025bytheO-RANALLIANCEe.V.Youruseissubjecttothecopyrightstatementonthecoverpageofthisspecification. 17 interfacetotheRANNFOAMSMOSsproducer.Furthermore,otherSMOSproducersmayaccessmodified configurationdatabyconsumingtheRANNFOAMSMOSs. FromthemonolithicviewoftheSMO,asper[i.13]definedusecasesandO-RANOAMarchitecture,theSMOisthe MnSconsumerwhocanconsumetheMnSprovidedbyO-RANNFsviaO1interface. Meanwhile,undertheSBAdesignconcept, theDecoupledSMOarchitecture[i.31]providesalogicalarchitecturefora decoupledSMOasdepictedinclause6.2.1in[i.31].InthedecoupledSMOarchitecture,theterminologyofSMO Service(SMOS)andSMOFunction(SMOF)aredefined,andSMOSscanbeconsumedbySMOFsviatheSMO communication.InthedecoupledSMO,RANNFOAMSMOSs’producerconsumetheO1MnSandoffertoother RANNFOAMSMOSconsumerRANNFOAMSMOSssuchasRANNFProvisioningManagementSMOService (NFCM),RANNFPerformanceAssuranceManagementSMOService(NFPM),andRANNFFaultSupervision ManagementSMOService(NFFM)tootherSMOFs.TheDecoupledSMOArchitectureclause5.1in[i.31]illustrates anexamplebasedon[i.23],whereanrAppconsumesRANNFOAMSMOSstocollectOAMdataforthepurposeof analysisandthegenerationofresourceallocation/optimizationactionstoensurethequalityofserviceforUEs.Italso highlightsthatdifferentintelligentusecasesrequiredifferenttypesofRANmanagementdata,includingperformance data,alarmdata,andNFNRM-relateddata. Inthisscenario,RANNFOAMSMOSshavemultipledeliverymethodsforconsumptionbyotherSMOFs.For instance,RANNFOAMSMOSscanbedirectlyexposedtootherSMOFsasMnSinordertoconsumeMnS componentsA,BandCproducedbyO-RANNFs. ThetablebelowprovidessomeexamplesofconsumersofOAMmanagementdatainsideSMO. Table5.3.2.1-1: ExamplesofconsumersofOAMmanagementdatainsideSMO Potentialconsumers Potentialconsumeddata Description Theconfigurationdatacanbeutilizedforintelligent rApp MnScomponentA,B,C usecasesdefinedin[i.23] TheconfigurationdataisconsumabletoNetworkSlice Service&SubnetSlice SubnetManagement(NSSM)usecasesasdefinedin OrchestrationSMOS MnScomponentA,B,C [i.24].AspecificexampleofRadioResource producer Management(RRM)Policyattributesisdelineatedin clause7.8in[i.24].

#### 5.3.2.2 Issue Summary
TheOAMSMOSsmayregisterwiththeSME.EachOAMSMOSsuchasNFCM,NFPM,NFFM,etc.providesits ownAPIforregistrationwiththeSME.ConsumersofOAMSMOSsmayretrievetheindividualAPIofeachOAM SMOSsthroughtheservicediscoveryandconsumetheOAMSMOSwiththeretrievedAPI.
> NOTE:TheprocessbywhichOAMSMOSsproducerregisterservicestoSMEs,inotherwords,themethodforservice
registration,willadheretotherelevantspecification.

#### 5.3.2.3 Potential solution
TheRANNFOAMSMOSsAPIs,schemaofdataneedstobedefined.

### 5.3.3 Transport of Configuration Management Operations

#### 5.3.3.1 Overview
ThetransportofconfigurationmanagementoperationsspecifiedinO1specificationsmakeuseofNETCONFoverSSH orNETCONFoverTLS. ThisclausefocusesonhowtheconsumerofprovisioningMnS,i.e.,thesourceofconfigurationchanges,caninvoke managementoperationsontheconfigurationdata. Managementofconfigurationdataencompassesthecreation,modification,deletionofconfigurationdatabythe managementsystems,e.g.,SMO,viaoperationsprovidedbytheprovisioningmanagementservicewhichusesthe ©2025bytheO-RANALLIANCEe.V.Youruseissubjecttothecopyrightstatementonthecoverpageofthisspecification. 18 configurationrepositorytostoretheconfigurationdata.Thetransportofconfigurationmanagementbetweenthe consumerofprovisioningMnSandthesourceoftruthisagnostictothetransport/protocolsupportonthetargetof configurationdata. Figure5.3.3.1-1illustratestheconfigurationrepositoryinthecontextoftheprovisioningmanagementservice Figure5.3.3.1-1:ProvisioningMnSinthecontextofsourceoftruth Forinstance,SMO/Non-RTRICactingasconsumeroftheprovisioningMnS,canmodifytheconfigurationdataforan MOI,andusetheoperationssupportedbytheconfigurationrepository,topersistthedatatowardsthesourceoftruth. ProvisioningMnFcontainsnotificationcapabilitiesthatmaybeusedbythesourceofconfigurationchanges[consumer ofprovisioningMnS]togettheupdatesaboutthechangesonO-RANNFs.

#### 5.3.3.2 Issue Summary
Thisclausedescribestheissuesrelatedtothenatureoftransportoftheoperationsusedbetweentheconsumerof provisioningmanagementservices(i.e.,SMO)andproducerofprovisioningmanagementservices(i.e.,O-RANNF)of Stage3provisioningoperationsreferredinO-RAN.WG10.O1-Interface[i.1]inclause6.1.0Overview. Asexplainedin attributesofmanagedobjects(configurationmanagement)ontheprovisioningMnSproducerthatmodifythe provisioningMnSproducer’sconfigurationinitsroleinend-to-endnetworkservicesandallowsaprovisioningMnS producertoreportconfigurationchangestotheprovisioningMnSconsumer. TheO1interfacespecificationdefinesusageofthefollowingsolutionset:
- YANG/Netconf-basedsolutionset
Netconf(NetworkConfiguration)protocolisastandardinterfaceforinstalling,deletingandmodifyingthe configurationdataonnetworkdevices. TheissuewithNetconfprotocolisthattheremustbeapermanentsession(SSH /TLSsession)tomakethecommunicationsuccessful. TheRESTfulHTTPisthecommoncommunicationprotocolfor cloud-basedsolutionsandusedforintegratingwithcloudplatformcommunicationpatterns. TheRESTfulHTTP-based protocolasdefinedin3GPPTS28.532[i.3]inclause“12.1.1RESTfulHTTP-basedsolutionset”isnotcurrently specifiedfortheO1interface. RESTfulHTTPcommunicationprotocolforcloud-basedsolutionsupportsscalingacrossdistributedcloud environments,minimizesoverhead(light-weight),toleratesfailurebyleveragingself-healingmechanisms,andsupports asynchronouscommunication. Adaptersarerequiredtosupporttheexistingprovisioningmanagementservicesolution set(YANG/Netconf)toterminatetoacloudbasedRESTfulHTTPsolution. ©2025bytheO-RANALLIANCEe.V.Youruseissubjecttothecopyrightstatementonthecoverpageofthisspecification. 19 Aconsumerofprovisioningmanagementservicethatmakesuseofthesolutionsetlistedabove(YANG/Netconf-based solutionset),requiresachangeinthetransportmechanismforsupportingthecloudfriendlyRESTfulHTTP-based protocolforconfigurationmanagementoperations,tomakeuseofcommandsorAPIsformanagementofconfiguration datawhileinterworkingwiththeprovisioningMnF.

#### 5.3.3.3 Potential solution
BasedonthegapsinO1interfacecomparedtothesolutionsetsprovidedin3GPP,onepotentialsolutionistoenhance theO1interfacespecificationwiththealternativesolutionset(JSON/HTTP)from3GPPforprovisioningmanagement serviceasdefinedin3GPPTS28.532[i.3]inclause“12.1.1RESTfulHTTP-basedsolutionset”.

# 6 Analysis of Operations for Telemetry Control

## 6.1 Background

### 6.1.1 MnS Component Type C
MnScomponenttypeC,asdefinedin3GPPTS28.533,representstheperformanceandfaultinformationofmanaged entities.Itprovidesessentialdataformonitoringandmaintainingtheoperationalhealthofnetworkelements, facilitatingeffectiveperformancemanagementandfaultdetection.MnScomponenttypeCexposesmanagementdatato RANNFOAMSMOS.Performanceinformation,faultinformationarenetworkmanagementdatacollectedfromthe network(includinge.g.service,slicingand/ornetworkfunctionsrelateddata).RANanalyticsSMOscanconsumeRAN NFOAMSMOstoutilizethenetworkmanagementdataandmakethecorrespondinganalyticsbasedonthecollected information.TheperformanceinformationprovidedbyRANNFMnSproducercanbeusedtooptimizenetwork performance,andthefaultinformationprovidedbyRANNFMnSproducercanbeusedtopredictandpreventfailures ofthenetwork. Mobilenetworkshavethecapabilitytosupportawidevarietyofservicesandrequirements.This,alongwithincreasing flexibilityofthenetworkmaypresentmanagementandoperationalchallengesandcomplexities.Themanagement systemcanthereforebenefitfrommanagementdataanalyticsservicesforimprovingnetworksperformanceand efficiencytoaccommodateandsupportthediversityofservicesandrequirements. MnScomponenttypeCconsistsofbelowprimaryelements: PerformanceDataisdefinedin[i.28],3GPPTS28.552andTS28.554. AlarmInformationisdescribedin3GPPTS28.532andTS28.111.
> NOTE:ThealarminformationalsoincludesalarmsdefinedinO-RANWG10WIO-RAN-WG10.O1.Alarms,
whichwillbereferencedhereoncetheO-RAN-WG10.O1.Alarmsspecificationsarepublished. TracesinformationasdefinedinTS32.421andTS32.423. Traceinformationisdiverse,anditmainlysupportstroubleshootingandvalidationtesting.TheTracerecordsshould containInformationElementsorsignalingmessagesfromcontrolsignalingand/orthecharacteristicsoftheuserdata. TogetherwithMnScomponenttypeAandMnScomponenttypeB,MnScomponenttypeCformsacomprehensive managementservicethatsupportstheconfiguration,monitoring,andoptimizationofnetworkresources. IntheO-RANarchitecture,MnScomponenttypeCcanbeaccessedthroughtheO1interface.TheSMOutilizestheO1 interfacetocollectandprocessMnScomponenttypeCinformation,enablingthemonitoringandmanagementofthe performanceandfaultstatusofO-RANNFs.MnScomponenttypeCcanalsobeprovidedtotheNon-Real-TimeRIC throughtheRANNFOAMSMOSproducerintheSMO,enablingintelligentnetworkperformanceoptimization,fault detection,andrecovery.

### 6.1.2 Performance Metrics
3GPPTS32.401definestheconceptofPerformanceManagementactivityasonetocollectdata,whichcanbeusedto verifythephysical,virtual,andlogicalconfigurationofthenetworkandtolocatepotentialproblemsasearlyas possible.Thetypeofdatatobecollectedisdefinedbytheequivalentmeasurements(e.g.,asspecifiedin3GPPTS32. ©2025bytheO-RANALLIANCEe.V.Youruseissubjecttothecopyrightstatementonthecoverpageofthisspecification. 20 425forE-UTRANrelatedperformancemeasurements,and3GPPTS28.552forNRrelatedperformance measurements).O-RANO1InterfaceSpecificationrefersto3GPP28.622fortheperformancemanagementjob operation,basedonthePerfMetricJobIOC,whereaMnSconsumerliststheperformancemeasurementstobeproduced (performancemetricsareidentifiedbyname).Allobjectinstancesbelowandincludingtheinstancename-containing thePerfMetricJobarescopedforperformancemetricproduction. Inmeasurementdatareporting,accordingto3GPP32.404,aperformancemeasurementincludesthemeasurement objectclass,describingthemeasuredobjectclasslevelwherethemeasurementhasbeencollected(e.g.NRCellCU, NRCellRelation). Performancemeasurements,whichareapermanentsourceofinformation,providevaluesaggregatedonanobservation period.

### 6.1.3 Events and Alarms
EventisdefinedasnetworkoccurrenceswhichhavesignificanceforthemanagementofanNE(NetworkElement)in clause3.1Termsof3GPPTS28.111[i.21],forexampleaconfigurationchange,athresholdcrossing,atransitiontoan errorstateoratransitiontoafailurestate.Eventsdonothavestate. 3GPPTS28.111[i.21]definesinclause3.1Terms,analarmasarepresentationofanerrororfailurethatrequires attentionorreactionbyanoperatororsomemachine.Alarmshavestate.

### 6.1.4 Traces
Introductionof3GPPTS32.421[i.19]citesthatSubscriberandequipmenttraceprovideverydetailedinformationat calllevelononeormorespecificmobile(s).SuchdataisanadditionalsourceofinformationtoPerformance Measurementsandallowsgoingfurtherinmonitoringandoptimizationoperations.SubscriberandEquipment(UE) Tracegiveinstantaneousvaluesforaspecificevent(e.g.call,locationupdate,etc.).Subscribertracingincludestracing ofIMSIorPublicUserIdentity,andequipment(UE)tracingincludestracingofIMEIorIMEISV.Traceistheeasyway togodeeperintoinvestigationandnetworkoptimization. TheusecasesforTracecanbedividedintotwobasiccategories:  Troubleshootingusecasescoversituationswheretheoperatorissolvinganexistingproblemintheoperator network.  Validationtestingusecasescoversituationswheretheoperatorisnotsolvingaknownproblembutmerely analyzing,fine-tuningoroptimizingthenetwork. SubscriberandUETracearecommonlyusedforthepurposes(tolistafew)suchas:  Checkingradiocoverageincertainareas,testingradiocoverageonaparticulargeographicalareafollowing networkextensionforinstance(e.g.newsiteinstallation)bycollectingRLFreports,  Fine-tuningandoptimizationofalgorithms/procedures;Tracedataareusedtogetfeedbackonthenetwork qualityandcapacityafteroptimizationoperationslikeparameterfine-tuning,forinstance,byusing measurementdata(MeasurementReport).  Periodicsamplingofnetworkperformance.

# 7 Analysis of Transport of Telemetry

## 7.1 Background

### 7.1.1 Transport of Performance Metrics in Current SBMA Solution Sets
TheO1Interface[i.1]specifiestwowaystotransportPerformanceMetrics: 1. File-based 2. Streaming ©2025bytheO-RANALLIANCEe.V.Youruseissubjecttothecopyrightstatementonthecoverpageofthisspecification. 21 ThefollowingfocusesondescribingPerformanceDatastreamingasitisexpectedtobemorerelevanttocloud-native OAM. PerformancedatastreamingmakesuseofWebSocketsasatransportfortheperformancedata[i.1,i.3]. Theconsumer oftheO1PMServiceintheSMOreceivesthePMdataovertheWebSocketsconnectionandmakesitavailabletoother consumerswithintheSMO(e.g.,theNon-RTRICanditsrApps). TheperformancedatastreamingMnSconsistsoftworelatedprotocolinterfaces:  HTTP/HTTPSforthefollowingpurposes: Establishmentofdatapipeforstreaming(typically,thecreationofWebSocketconnection). The o streamestablishmentoperationcontainstheProducerIDasaparameter;iftheMnSProduceris modeledaspartoftheNRM,thenitsdistinguishedname(DN)canbeusedhere. Otherwise,the ProducerIDisfilledinwithsomeotherunspecifiedidentifier. Exchangeofmeta-data(thenatureofthedatatobereportedviastreaming). Thisenablesthe o ProducertoinformtheConsumeroftheformatandsequenceofthedatastreamedonmultiplestreams. Managementofreportingstreamsbasedonthestage3definitionof“establishStreamingConnection”, o “addStream”,and/or“deleteStream”operations.  WebSocketsasatransportchannelforPerformanceData: FormattedandpackedasperformancedatapayloadsasperAnnexGorAnnexIofTS28.550v18 o (eitherinASN.1packetorGPBpacket)[i.15],and SentovertheWebSocketbinarydataframes(basedonthestage3definitionof"reportStreamData"operation)[i.3].The deliveryofWebSocketDataframeistakencareofbytheunderlyingTCP.Asanexample,itisshownbelowhowtwo streamsidentifiedbystreamId123andstreamId124ofperformancedataarecharacterizedusingstreaminformation meta-dataconveyedbytheProducertotheConsumerusingan"establishStreamingConnection"operation. POST/example.com/o1_pm_trace_streaming/1.0.0/connections accept:application/json Content-Type:application/json { producer:"SubNetwork=ABCNetwork,SubNetwork=MUC01,GNBDUFunction=XYZ0100", streams:[ { streamType:"PERFORMANCE", serializationFormat:"GPB", streamId:"123", additionalInfo:{ measObjDn:{ GNB-ID:"1", NCGI:"2" } }, performanceMetrics:[ "MR.RSRP.00", "MR.RSRP.01", ... ], jobId:"Job-Id-x" }, { streamType:"PERFORMANCE", serializationFormat:"GPB", streamId:"124", additionalInfo:{ measObjDn:{ GNB-ID:"1", NCGI:"2" ©2025bytheO-RANALLIANCEe.V.Youruseissubjecttothecopyrightstatementonthecoverpageofthisspecification. 22 } }, performanceMetrics:[ "ERAB.EstabInitAttNbr.1", "ERAB.EstabInitAttNbr.6", "ERAB.EstabInitAttNbr.9" ], jobId:"Job-Id-x" } ] } Theexampleshowsrequestforreportingdatastreamsmeta-datafortwostreamswhichcontainseparatesetsof PerformanceMetricsdatabelongingtodifferentmeasurementfamilies.Alternately,separatestreamsofreportingdata maybeconveyedforperformancedatageneratedbydifferentmeasurementobjects,identifieddistinctlyby “measObjDn”.Oncethemeta-dataofreportingstreamissuccessfullyacknowledgedbytheConsumerofConsumerof MnSforPerformanceDataStreaming,theConsumershallusethismeta-datatocorrelatewiththepayloadreceivedon WebSocketdataframe,identifiedbasedonthestreamidentifierinformation,toapplydecoding,unpacking,specifically toextractandreadtherequiredPerformanceMetrics.Thatis,thesendingofPerformanceMetricsdataoverGPBor ASN.1formatmustabidebythePerformanceMetrics’listthatwasexchangedaspartofmeta-databetweenProducerof MnSandConsumerofMnS.ThisistoensureontheConsumerthatacertainPMisexpectedonlyataposition specifiedbythePerformanceMetrics(performanceMetricsfieldof"establishStreamingConnection"operation).The correspondingpayloadcarryingtheactualmeasurementresultsispackedintheGPB/ASN.1encodedmessagefields, serializedandsentusingWebSocket'sdataframe.Arepresentationofhowthedatalooksalongwiththeinterpretations ofthemessagefieldsforpayloadforstreamsinourexampleareshownbelow. ReportingofPerformanceDataforstreamId:123 GPBStructure/Fields ValuesreceivedinPayloadandinterpretationsby Consumer PDSUs PDSU stream_id 123 granularity_period_end_time 2022-02-02T19:34:00.000Z standardized_meas_results real_value 50.0[received/interpretedbyConsumerofPMsasvalue forMR.RSRP.00] standardized_meas_results real_value 34.0[received/interpretedbyConsumerofPMsasvalue forMR.RSRP.01] standardized_meas_results real_value ... ReportingofPerformanceDataforstreamId:124 GPBStructure/Fields ValuesreceivedinPayloadandinterpretationsby Consumer PDSUs PDSU stream_id 124 granularity_period_end_time 2022-02-02T19:34:00.000Z standardized_meas_results real_value 6.0àreceived/interpretedbyConsumerofPMsasvalue forERAB.EstabInitAttNbr.1(QCI:1levelsub-counter) standardized_meas_results real_value 8.0àreceived/interpretedbyConsumerofPMsasvalue ©2025bytheO-RANALLIANCEe.V.Youruseissubjecttothecopyrightstatementonthecoverpageofthisspecification. 23 forERAB.EstabInitAttNbr.6(QCI:6levelsub-counter) standardized_meas_results real_value 10.0àreceived/interpretedbyConsumerofPMsasvalue forERAB.EstabInitAttNbr.9(QCI:9levelsub-counter) AboveisarepresentationofPerformanceDataproducedbytheProducerofPerformanceDataStreamingMnSthatis encodedinGPBorASN.1encodingformatandsentoveraWebSocketDataFrametowardstheConsumerof PerformanceDataStreamingMnS.

### 7.1.2 Transport of Events and Alarms in Current SBMA Solution Sets

#### 7.1.2.1 Transport of Events
Accordingto3GPPTS28.111[i.21],eventisdefinedasanythingthatoccursatacertainpointintime,forexamplea configurationchange,athresholdcrossing,atransitiontoanerrorstateoratransitiontoafailurestate.Eventsdonot havestates. TheEventNotificationsareconfiguredusingSubscriptionControl,thatallowsaProvisioningMnSConsumerto subscribetonotificationsemittedbyaProducerofProvisioningMnS. TheProducerofProvisioningMnSsendsnotifyMOIChangesnotificationtotheProvisioningMnSConsumer.TheO1- supported3GPP-specifiedCMnotificationis:
- notifyMOIChanges
AsperO1specifications,asinglenotifyMOIChangesnotificationcanreportoneormoreMOIcreations,MOIdeletions and/orMOIattributevaluechangesinonenotification. AneventnotificationuseseitherSDOO1FormatorVESO1FormattotransporttheO1CMnotificationdatatothe ConsumerofProvisioningMnS,asafeedbackloop,usingthefollowing:

#### 7.1.2.2 Transport of Alarms
Accordingto3GPPTS32.111-1[i.26],analarmsignifiesanundesiredconditionofaresource(e.g.,networkelement, link)forwhichanoperatoractionisrequired. Adeviationofasystemfromnormaloperation,whichmayresultinthelossofoperationalcapabilitiesoftheelementor thelossofredundancyincaseofaredundantconfigurationisreferredtoasa‘fault’. TheFaultNotificationsareconfiguredusingSubscriptionControl,thatallowsaFaultSupervisionMnSConsumerto subscribetonotificationsemittedbyaFaultSupervisionMnSProducer. FaultSupervisionManagementServiceallowstransportofalarmsvianotificationthatarelistedbelow:
- notifyNewAlarm
- notifyChangedAlarmGeneraland/ornotifyChangedAlarm
- notifyClearedAlarm
- notifyAlarmListRebuilt
Accordingtoclause6.2FaultSupervisionManagementServicesofO-RAN.WG10.O1-Interface[i.1],thetransportof faultsusethefollowingservices:
- FaultsupervisionnotificationsthatallowtheProducerofFaultSupervisionMnStosendalarmnotifications,
whichincludessubscriptiontoalarms,notificationofnewalarmsorsendingchangedalarmnotification,
- FaultsupervisionthatallowstheConsumerofFaultSupervisionMnStogetalarmlistfromtheProducerof
FaultSupervisionMnS. ©2025bytheO-RANALLIANCEe.V.Youruseissubjecttothecopyrightstatementonthecoverpageofthisspecification. 24 Boththeservices,useeitherSDOO1Format,orVESO1FormattotransporttheO1alarmdatatotheConsumerof FaultSupervisionMnS,usingfollowingsolutionsetasspecifiedin3GPPTS28.532[i.3]:
- RESTfulHTTP-basedsolutionset,
- RESTfulHTTP-basedsolutionsetforintegrationwithONAPVESAPI
BoththesolutionsetsmakeuseofsecuredHTTPtransporttocarrythealarminformationeitherasoperationresponse orinformofnotifications.ThesolutionsetassociatedwithoperationsandnotificationsofboththeFaultNotifications, andtheFaultSupervisionControlrequireconnectionmanagements,atHTTP/TLSprotocollevelwhichisusedfor point-to-pointcommunicationbetweeneachsourceandtargetpeerofFaultSupervisionMnSConsumerandFault SupervisionMnSProducer.

### 7.1.3 Transport of Traces in Current SBMA Solution Sets
TheO1Interface[i.1]specifiestwowaystotransporttraces: 1. File-based 2. Streaming Thisclausefocusesondescribingtransportoftracedatabasedonstreaming. Tracedatastreamingmakesuseofwebsocketsasatransportforthetracedata[i.1,i.3]. TheconsumeroftheO1trace serviceintheSMOreceivesthetracedataoverthewebsocketsconnectionandmakesitavailabletootherconsumers withintheSMO(e.g.,Non-RTRIC,rApps,etc). ThetracedatastreamingMnSconsistsoftworelatedprotocolinterfaces:  HTTP/HTTPSforthefollowingpurposes: Establishmentofdatapipeforstreaming(typically,thecreationofwebsocketconnection). The o streamestablishmentoperationcontainstheproducerIDasaparameter;iftheMnSProduceris modeledaspartoftheNRM,thenitsdistinguishedname(DN)canbeused. Otherwise,theproducer IDisfilledinwithsomeotherunspecifiedidentifier. Exchangeofmeta-data(thenatureofthedatatobereportedviastreaming). Thisenablesthe o producertoinformtheconsumeroftheformatandsequenceofthedatastreamedonmultiplestreams. Managementofreportingstreamsbasedonthestage3definitionof“establishStreamingConnection”, o “addStream”,and/or“deleteStream”operations.  Websocketsasatransportchannelfortracedata: FormattedandpackedastracedatapayloadsasperAnnexG.2ofTS32.423v18(GPBpacket)[i.27], o andsentoverthewebsocketbinarydataframes(basedonthestage3definitionof "reportStreamData"operation)[i.3].Thedeliveryofwebsocketdataframeistakencareofbythe underlyingTCP. Asanexample,itisshownbelowhowstreamidentifiedbystreamId“4358070034D7”oftracedataischaracterized usingstreaminformationmeta-dataconveyedbytheproducertotheconsumerusingan "establishStreamingConnection"operation. POST/example.com/o1_pm_trace_streaming/1.0.0/connections accept:application/json Content-Type:application/json { "producer":"SubNetwork=ABCNetwork,SubNetwork=MUC01,GNBDUFunction=XYZ0100", "streams":[ ©2025bytheO-RANALLIANCEe.V.Youruseissubjecttothecopyrightstatementonthecoverpageofthisspecification. 25 { "streamType":"TRACE", "serializationFormat":"GPB", "streamId":"4358070034D7", "additionalInfo":{ "jobType":"TRACE_ONLY", "traceReference":{ "mcc":"435", "mnc":"807", "traceId":"0034D7" }, "jobId":"Job-Id-x", "traceReportingFormat":"STREAMING", "traceTarget":{ "TargetIdType":"gNB", "TargetIdValue":"1" }, "traceConfig":{ "listOfInterfaces":{ "gNB-CU-CPInterfaces":[ "Uu", "X2-C" ] }, "listOfNeTypes":"GNB_CU_CP" } } } ] } Belowisshownanexampleofatracedatarecordcorrespondingtotheaboveconnectionestablished. record { header { ©2025bytheO-RANALLIANCEe.V.Youruseissubjecttothecopyrightstatementonthecoverpageofthisspecification. 26 time_stamp:1706606407 nf_instance_id:"NETWORK_MANAGED_ELEMENT_ID" nf_type:"gNB" trace_reference:"0034D7" global_gnb_id: { plmn_identity:"435807" gnb_id:1780 } } payload: { payload_size:0 binary_payload:"\n\x01\t\x11" } }

## 7.2 Performance Metric Transport

### 7.2.1 Overview
ThetransportofperformancemetricspecifiedinO1specificationsisfile-based(bulk)and/orstreaming(realtime). Forfile-based(bulk)performancedatareporting,PMdatapull-basedfilereportingmethodand/orthePMdatapush- basedfilereportingmethodissupported.AsynchronousnotifyFileReadynotificationeventissupportedwhenPMFile(s) isreadyforretrievalorasynchronousnotifyFilePreparationErrornotificationeventissupportedwhenthereisanyerror whilepreparingthefile(s),whichisoptionalforpush-basedfilereporting.Whentransferringfiles,asecureconnection isestablishedfromortotheFileManagementMnSProducer(SFTP,FTPeSorHTTPs)asdefinedinclause7.1.3of 3GPPTS28.537[i.29]. Performancedatafilecontentandfilenamingisasspecifiedinclause11.3.2.1of3GPPTS28.532[i.3]. PerformancedatafileXMLFormatisasspecifiedinclause12.3.2of3GPPTS28.532[i.3]and/orinclause4.1of 3GPPTS32.432[i.30]. Forperformancedatastreaming,AsecureWebSocketconnectionisestablishedbetweenthePerformanceAssurance MnSProducerandthePerformanceAssuranceMnSConsumer.Thedescriptionofperformancedatastreamingisin clause7.1.2TransportofPerformanceMetricsinCurrentSBMASolutionSetsofthepresentdocument.

### 7.2.2 Issue summary
Figure7.2.2-1providesanexampleofPMdatastreamingbasedonWebSocketarchitecture.Duringfailoverscenario, MnSproducerneedtoreestablishWebSocketconnectiontoMnSconsumerasindicatedbyredarrowinFigure7.2.2-1. ©2025bytheO-RANALLIANCEe.V.Youruseissubjecttothecopyrightstatementonthecoverpageofthisspecification. 27 Figure7.2.2-1An ExampleofPMdatastreamingbasedonWebSocket WebSocketispoint-to-pointpersistentconnection.Tomaintainit,streamingdatareportingMnSproducerandconsumer needkeepalivemessages,thatcostsextraresource. WebSocketisstatefulconnectioninnature.StreamingdatareportingMnSproducerandconsumerneedtomaintain stateorconsiderstatelesssolutionincloud-nativedeployments,whichintroducesarchitecturalandoperational complexities. WebSocketdoesn’tsupportauto-reconnectbydefault.WebSocketreconnectiontimemainlydependsonfailure detectiontimeandreconnectionstrategyaccordingtoconfiguration.WebSocketreconnectioninterrupttimemayimpact PMdatastreamingtransmission. WebSocketdoesn’tsupportmessagequeueing.Toensuredeliveryguarantees,StreamingdatareportingMnSproducer andconsumerneedadditionalprocessing.

### 7.2.3 Potential solution
ComparedwithWebSocket,Kafkaisamessagebus(notpoint-to-point)andstateless,soMnSproducerandconsumer don’tneedtomaintainpeerstate.Otherissuesdescribedinclause7.2.2arealsohandledbyKafkawhichisdescribedin clause7.3.3.

## 7.3 Notification Transport

### 7.3.1 Overview
REST/HTTPSisspecifiedastransportofO1Notificationin[i.1].Thistransportisbasedonpoint-to-pointconnection betweenNotificationreportingserviceMnSproducerandMnSconsumer.

### 7.3.2 Issue summary
BelowdiagramshowsanexamplearchitecturebasedonREST/HTTPSprotocol. left to right direction frame SMO #grey;line:grey;line.bold;text:white{ rectangle LB as "HTTP\nLoad\nBalancer" #steelblue;text:white rectangle SN3 as "HTTP Server\nNode 3 for\nHigh Availability" #deepskyblue;text:white rectangle SN2 as "HTTP Server\nNode 2 for\nLoad Balancen" #steelblue;text:white rectangle SN1 as "HTTP Server\nNode 1 for\nLoad Balancen" #steelblue;text:white rectangle MB as "Message\nBroker" #steelblue;text:white ©2025bytheO-RANALLIANCEe.V.Youruseissubjecttothecopyrightstatementonthecoverpageofthisspecification. 28 rectangle NA3 as "Notification\nApplication 3" #steelblue;text:white rectangle NA2 as "Notification\nApplication 2" #steelblue;text:white rectangle NA1 as "Notification\nApplication 1" #steelblue;text:white LB -[#red]-> SN3 : Node 2\nfailover LB -[#navy]-> SN2 LB -[#navy]-> SN1 SN3 -[#red,dotted,thickness=3]-> MB : SMO backend\nfailover SN2 -[#navy,dotted,thickness=3]-> MB SN1 -[#navy,dotted,thickness=3]-> MB : SMO backend\ninterface MB -[#navy,dotted,thickness=3]-> NA3 MB -[#navy,dotted,thickness=3]-> NA2 MB -[#navy,dotted,thickness=3]-> NA1 } rectangle PA as "MnS\nProducer A" #steelblue;text:white rectangle PB as "MnS\nProducer B" #steelblue;text:white rectangle PC as "MnS\nProducer C" #steelblue;text:white PA -[#navy]-> LB : O1 Notification\nstream PB -[#navy]-> LB PC -[#navy]-> LB Figure7.3.2-1An examplearchitecturebasedonREST/HTTPSprotocol InCloud-nativedeployment,REST/HTTPScansupportloadbalancingandscalabilitycapabilitieswell.Butthere’re followingissues: 1. There’snoguaranteeofin-sequence-deliveryforHTTPPOSToperation. 2. HTTPprotocolheaderoverhead(includingHTTPheader,Request/ResponsemechanismandTCPhead-of-line blocking) increasesnetworkbandwidthusageespeciallyinlargescaleCloud-nativedeployment. 3. REST/HTTPSprotocoldoesn’tinvolveanyloadbalancingrelatedaspect.Tosupportloadbalancing,needto introduceadedicatedloadbalancersuchas:ReverseProxywhichrequiresadditionaldesigncomplexityand implementationeffort.

### 7.3.3 Potential Solution
BelowdiagramshowsanexamplearchitecturebasedonKafkaprotocol: left to right direction frame SMO #grey;line:grey;line.bold;text:white{ frame "Kafka parition 1" #lightsteelblue;line:grey;line.bold;text:white{ rectangle KF1 as "Kafka\nReplica\n(follower)" #steelblue;text:white rectangle KL1 as "Kafka\nReplica\n(lead)" #steelblue;text:white } rectangle KP2 as "Kafka parition 2" #lightsteelblue;line:grey;text:white rectangle NA3 as "Notification\nApplication 3" #steelblue;text:white rectangle NA2 as "Notification\nApplication 2" #steelblue;text:white rectangle NA1 as "Notification\nApplication 1" #steelblue;text:white ©2025bytheO-RANALLIANCEe.V.Youruseissubjecttothecopyrightstatementonthecoverpageofthisspecification. 29 } rectangle PA as "MnS\nProducer A" #steelblue;text:white rectangle PB as "MnS\nProducer B" #steelblue;text:white rectangle PC as "MnS\nProducer C" #steelblue;text:white PA -[#navy]-> KL1 : Kafka interface PB -[#navy]-> KL1 PA -[#red]-> KF1 : lead replica\nfailover PB -[#red]-> KF1 PC -[#navy]-> KP2 KL1 -[#navy]-> NA1 KL1 -[#navy]-> NA2 KF1 -[#red]-> NA1 KF1 -[#red]-> NA2 KP2 -[#navy]-> NA3 Figure7.3.3-1An examplearchitecturebasedonKafkaprotocol Theissuesdescribedinclause7.3.2arehandledbyKafkaasbelow: 1. In-sequence-deliveryisguaranteedineachpartitionbasedoninsequencestorage. 2.Kafkaprovidesalowprotocolheaderoverhead(multiplemessagesinonebatchandshareacommonmessage header).KafkaisstillbasedonTCP,butTCPhead-of-lineblockingissueisresolvedbymultiplepartitions andsendingmessagesinbatch. 3.Kafkaprotocolincludesgroupidwhichguaranteesmultipleconsumersinonegrouphaveloadbalancingand fail-overcapability.Inaddition,Kafkaheart-beatintervalisshort(secondlevel),sofailuredetectionissoon. 4.Kafkaisnotonlyaprotocol,butalsoaproductwhichhandlesallaspectsofloadbalance,fault-toleranceand dataintegrity.Itenablesapplicationlayertopushthesefeaturestotransportlayer. Basedontheaboveadvantages,Kafkacouldbeconsideredasapotentialsolution.IncaseKafkaisintroducedas additionaltransportprotocolforO1interface,followingoptionsareavailableforconsideration: Option1–MnSconsumer(SMO)supportallsolutionsets,MnSproducer(NF)sidesupportanyofthesolutionset​ Option2-BothMnSconsumer(SMO)andproducer(NF)supportanyoftheoptions,interoperabilityisleftto operator/vendorproductordernegotiation​ Option3-BothMnSconsumer(SMO)andproducer(NF)supportREST/HTTPSasacommonbasicmechanismof Notificationservicetoguaranteecompatibility,andKafkaistreatedasanalternativemechanism. ©2025bytheO-RANALLIANCEe.V.Youruseissubjecttothecopyrightstatementonthecoverpageofthisspecification. 30

## 7.4 Trace Transport

### 7.4.1 Overview
ThetransportoftracespecifiedinO1specificationsisfile-based(bulk)and/orstreaming(realtime). File-basedtracecollectstracerecordsinfilesthatareavailabletotheconsumerwithatimedelay.Theproducer optionallysendsthefiledirectlytotheconsumerorsendsthelocationofthefiletotheconsumer. Proceduresfornamingthetracedatafilearedescribedin3GPPTS32.423[i.27]clauseB.FileNamingConventionis describedin3GPPTS32.423[i.27]clauseB.1.TracefilesareproducedinXMLformat.TheXMLformatisdescribed in3GPPTS32.423[i.27]clauseA2.2.ExampleXMLfilesareprovidedin3GPPTS32.423[i.27]AnnexD. Inthecaseofstreamingtrace,thedataissentinburstsacrossaWebSocketconnectiontotheconsumer,maintainingthe relevanceofthedatawhileminimizingtransportoverhead. Definitionsoftracerecordcontentforalltracetypes,XMLtracefileformat,andstreamingtraceGPBrecorddefinition arefoundin3GPPTS32.423[i.27].definitionsforstreamingdatareportingarespecifiedin3GPPTS28.532[i.3]. Fortracedatastreaming,AsecureWebSocketconnectionisestablishedbetweentheTraceMnSProducerandtheTrace MnSConsumer.Thedescriptionoftracedatastreamingisinclause7.1.3TransportofTracesinCurrentSBMA SolutionSetsofthepresentdocument.

### 7.4.2 Issue Summary
TheissuesofWebSocketfortracedatastreamingareasinclause7.2.2issuesummaryofWebSocketforperformance datastreamingofthepresentdocument.

### 7.4.3 Potential solution
PotentialsolutionofTracetransportprotocolisasinclause7.2.3. ©2025bytheO-RANALLIANCEe.V.Youruseissubjecttothecopyrightstatementonthecoverpageofthisspecification. 31


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG10.TS.Information Model and Data Models.0-R004-v12.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG10.TS.Information Model and Technical Specification O-RAN Work Group 10 (OAM for O-RAN) O-RAN Information Model and Data Models Specification"
---


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG10.TS.O1-Interface.0-R004-v17.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG10.TS.O1-Interface.0-R004-v17.00 Technical Specification O-RAN Work Group 10 (OAM for O-RAN) O-RAN O1 Interface Specification"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1] and the following apply.
> NOTE: A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1]. NF Deployment: Refer to O-RAN WG6.ORCH-USE-CASES, Cloudification and Orchestration Use Cases and Requirements for O-RAN Virtualized RAN [i.22], clause 1.2.1

## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the symbols given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1] apply.
> NOTE: A symbol defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same symbol, if any,
in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1].

## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1] and the following apply.
> NOTE 1: An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1]. 3GPP 3rd Generation Partnership Project ASN.1 Abstract Syntax Notation One CM Configuration Management CRUD Create, Read, Update, Delete FS Fault Supervision FTPES File Transfer Protocol with Explicit SSL/TLS encryption GPB Google Protocol Buffers HTTP HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTPS HTTP Secure ID IDentifier IETF Internet Engineering Task Force IOC Information Object Class IP Internet Protocol JSON JavaScript Object Notation MDT Minimization of Drive Testing ME Managed Element MF Managed Function MnS Management Service MOC Managed Object Class MOI Managed Object Instance Near-RT RIC O-RAN Near Real Time RAN Intelligent Controller NETCONF NETwork CONFiguration protocol NF Network Function NGRAN Next Generation Radio Access Network NMS Network Management System NR New Radio NRM Network Resource Model O-CU-CP O-RAN Central Unit – Control Plane. O-CU-UP O-RAN Central Unit – User Plane O-DU O-RAN Distributed Unit O-RAN Open Radio Access Network O-RU O-RAN Radio Unit ONAP Open Network Automation Platform PM Performance Management or Performance Measurements PNF Physical Network Function RAN Radio Access Network RCEF RRC Connection Establishment Failure REST REpresentational State Transfer RFC Request For Comments RLF Radio Link Failure RRC Radio Resource Control SA5 Services & System Aspects Working Group 5 Telecom Management SBMA Services Based Management Architecture
> NOTE 2: See 3GPP TS 28.533 [i.4], clause 4.
SDO Standards Defining Organization SMO Service Management and Orchestration SFTP SSH File Transfer Protocol SSH Secure Shell TLS Transport Layer Security TR Technical Report TRS Trace Recording Session TS Technical Specification UE User Equipment URI Uniform Resource Identifier VES VNF Event Stream VNF Virtualized Network Function XML eXtensible Markup Language

# 4 General Requirements

## 4.1 Void

## 4.2 Void

## 4.3 HyperText Transfer Protocol (HTTP)
REQ-HTP-FUN-1: Management Service producers and consumers that use HTTP shall support HTTP v1.1 or higher. REQ-HTP-FUN-2: Management Service producers and consumers that use HTTP should support HTTP v2.0.

## 4.4 Void

## 4.5 Void

## 4.6 Void

## 4.7 File Transfer Protocol (SFTP, FTPeS or HTTPS)
File Transfer shall be performed using a secure file transfer protocol from or to the File Management MnS Producer (SFTP, FTPeS or HTTPs) as defined in clause 7.1.3 of 3GPP TS 28.537 [4].

## 4.8 Security
Security requirements specified in O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [17] clause 5.2.2 shall apply.

# 5 O1 Notifications

## 5.1 General
An O1 notification is a JSON encoded asynchronous notification sent from a MnS producer to a MnS consumer over the O1 interface using REST/HTTPS. An O1 notification shall be in one of the following formats:
- SDO O1 format;
- VES O1 format.
An SDO O1 format notification is an O1 notification formatted as specified by a Standards Defining Organization (SDO). Currently, O1 supports SDO O1 format notifications that are either 3GPP-specified or O-RAN-specified. SDO O1 format notifications are formatted as specified by the SDO and sent without a VES header. 3GPP-specified O1 notifications are specified in 3GPP TS 28.532 [3] clauses 11 and 12, and in 3GPP TS 28.111 [26] clause 8. O-RAN-specified O1 notifications are specified in the O-RAN O1 Network Resource Model Specification [i.16]. O-RAN-specified O1 notifications should follow 3GPP naming and format where possible to reduce the number of variants that need to be supported. Specifically, O-RAN-specified O1 notifications should:
- be named "o1NotifyXxx";
- include the common 3GPP notification fields objectClass, objectInstance, notificationId, notificationType,
eventTime and systemDN;
- include an additionalText and/or additionalInformation field when appropriate.

# A VES O1 format notification is an O1 notification formatted as specified by VES Event Listener Specification [18],
consisting of a common event header and domain-specific event fields. VES O1 format notifications are categorized into types, based on domain:
- Harmonized VES;
- Legacy VES.
Harmonized VES refers to the stndDefined VES event specified in VES Event Listener Specification [18] that allows a VES event to carry, as its payload, a notification specified by an SDO. In the case of O-RAN O1 Interface Specification, a harmonized stndDefined VES event carries either a 3GPP-specified O1 notification or an O-RAN specified O1 notification as its payload. Legacy VES refers to any VES event specified in the VES Event Listener Specification [18], except for stndDefined. Legacy VES events are fully defined in [18] and do not rely on an SDO to specify the content of the payload. The Legacy VES events supported by O1 Interface Specification is PNF Registration. Legacy VES events are supported for backward compatibility. However, harmonized VES events are preferred. Use of harmonized VES events results in less notification variants for the producers and the consumers because a harmonized VES O1 format notification is effectively an SDO O1 format notification wrapped in a VES common event header. Two attributes are used to communicate the notification format between MnS producer and MnS consumer:
- o1NotifyFormatCapabilities indicates whether the MnS producer supports the capability to send notifications
in SDO O1 format, VES O1 format or both. This attribute is set by the MnS producer at the Managed Element level, meaning the capability is for all O1 notifications sent by that MnS producer. It is not per notification type. This attribute is read-only for the MnS consumer.
- o1NotifyFormatConfig indicates whether the MnS consumer wants to receive notifications in SDO O1 format
or VES O1 format. This attribute is optional to be supported by MnS producer. This attribute is configured by the MnS consumer at the Managed Element level, meaning the configuration is for all O1 notifications sent by that MnS producer. It is not per notification type. If the MnS producer supports both formats, the MnS producer sets the value for this attribute to the default value of VES O1 format when the MOI is created and the MnS consumer is permitted to change the value to SDO O1 format if desired. Otherwise, if the MnS producer only supports one notification format, this attribute is absent. Configuration attributes are specified in the O-RAN O1 Network Resource Model Specification [i.16]. It is not necessary to have an attribute to indicate whether harmonized VES or legacy VES is sent for VES format because the domain of the event is provided in the VES common event header and the schema of the event is provided by the Network Function at onboarding time.

## 5.2 O-RAN Defined O1 Notification

### 5.2.1 Requirements
REQ-ON-FUN-1: O-RAN defined O1 registration notification shall be JSON encoded for sending via REST/HTTPS. REQ-ON-FUN-2: Schema for O-RAN defined O1 notification shall be specified using OpenAPI. REQ-ON-FUN-3: If VES O1 format is configured to be used, O-RAN defined O1 notification shall be presented in harmonized VES format and schemaReference shall refer to O-RAN defined schema in O-RAN public repository when it is available.
> NOTE 1: O-RAN public repository is not created yet.
> NOTE 2: Before the schema for the O-RAN defined notification is available in the O-RAN public repository, the
schemaReference in the VES O1 format for O-RAN defined O1 notification does not need to be a path to the public repository. 5.2.2 stndDefinedNamespace name space for O-RAN O-RAN defines following name space for VES O1 format-harmonized VES format: OR-Registration For O-RAN defined performance measurements, the short form of measurement name has prefix "OR.". The source of the definition is clear, so there is no need to have a separate O-RAN name space for performance measurement. O-RAN defined performance measurements should use 3GPP-PerformanceMeasurement name space and refer to 3GPP schema.

# 6 Management Services

## 6.1 Provisioning Management Services

### 6.1.0 Overview
Provisioning management services allow a Provisioning MnS Consumer to configure attributes of managed objects on the Provisioning MnS Producer that modify the Provisioning MnS Producer’s capabilities in its role in end-to-end network services and allows a Provisioning MnS Producer to report configuration changes to the Provisioning MnS Consumer. NETCONF is used for the Provisioning Management Services to Create Managed Object Instance, Delete Managed Object Instance, Modify Managed Object Instance Attributes and Read Managed Object Instance Attributes.

# A RESTful/HTTP notification with data modelled using YANG is used to notify the Provisioning MnS subscribed
Consumers when a configuration change occurs. Stage 1 Provisioning management services are specified in 3GPP TS 28.531 [i.3] clause 6.3. Stage 2 Provisioning operations and notifications are specified in 3GPP TS 28.532 [3] clause 11.1.1. Stage 3 Provisioning operations for YANG/NETCONF solution set are specified in 3GPP TS 28.532 [3] clause 12.1.3. Stage 3 Provisioning notifications for "YANG/NETCONF-based- solution set" with data modelled using YANG in a RESTful notification is specified in 3GPP TS 28.532 [3] clause 12.1.3. For the VES header support, refer to 3GPP TS 28.532 [3] clause 12.1.2. The media type of the notification, as specified by the "Content-Type" header in the HTTP POST request, shall be "application/json".
> NOTE: In the payload, the data is encoded according to 3GPP TS 28.532 [3] clause 12.1.3.2.5 (except for the
content type in the header). Consumption of the payload is implementation dependent. IETF reference documents for NETCONF and YANG include RFC 6241 [20] and RFC 7950 [21].

### 6.1.1 General NETCONF Requirements
REQ-GNC-FUN-1: The provisioning management service producer and consumer shall support the following NETCONF operations as specified in RFC 6241 [20]:
- get
- get-config
- edit-config
- lock
- unlock
- close-session
- kill-session
Other operations are optional. REQ-GNC-FUN-2: The provisioning management service producer and consumer shall support the following NETCONF capabilities as specified in RFC 6241 [20]:
- writable-running
- rollback-on-error
- validate
- xpath
Other capabilities defined in RFC 6241 [20] are optional. REQ-GNC-FUN-3: The provisioning management service producer and consumer shall support a running datastore for NETCONF. Support for a candidate datastore is optional. REQ-GNC-FUN-4: The provisioning management service producer and consumer shall support YANG1.1, defined in RFC 7950 [21], including coexistence with YANG Version 1 as specified therein. REQ-GNC-FUN-5: The provisioning management service producer shall have the capability to establish a NETCONF session with its authorized consumer upon request from the consumer. REQ-GNC-FUN-6: The provisioning management service producer shall support an established NETCONF session until the authorized consumer terminates the session.
> NOTE: The consumer may want to perform multiple provisioning management services operations during a single
NETCONF Session. REQ-GNC-FUN-7: The provisioning management service producer shall have the capability to terminate a NETCONF session with its authorized consumer when requested to do so by the authorized consumer. REQ-GNC-FUN-8: The provisioning management service producer shall have the capability to make provisioning operation results persistent over a reset. REQ-GNC-FUN-9: The provisioning management service producer and consumer shall support NETCONF over SSH or NETCONF over TLS. REQ-GNC-FUN-10: The provisioning management service producer shall support /netconf-state/schemas subtree and <get-schema> RPC defined in RFC 6022 [19] for all supported YANG modules. REQ-GNC-FUN-11: The provisioning management service producer shall support RFC 6243 [24] "With-defaults capability for NETCONF" as defined by 3GPP TS 28.532 [3], clause 12.1.3.3.2.

### 6.1.2 Create Managed Object Instance

#### 6.1.2.1 Description
Provisioning MnS Consumer sends a synchronous provisioning update request to the Provisioning MnS Producer to create a Managed Object Instance (MOI) on the Provisioning MnS Producer and set its attribute values.

#### 6.1.2.2 Requirements
The mapping of operations specified in 3GPP TS 28.532 [3] clauses 12.1.3.1.1 and 12.1.3.1.2 shall apply.

#### 6.1.2.3 Procedures
The procedure in the present clause is an example adding to the reader's understanding of the interactions for the corresponding Management Service, aiming to help with the implementation of the O1 Interface specification. It outlines a possible flow and does not introduce new conformance requirements. Pre-Conditions:
- NETCONF session has been established with Provisioning MnS Producer. NETCONF session has authorized
privileges into the identified section of the data store.
- Optionally, target data store has been locked.
Procedure: 1. Provisioning MnS Consumer sends NETCONF edit-config create operation to Provisioning MnS Producer: a. Provisioning MnS Producer creates the MOI(s) in the target data store as described in the edit-config operation. 2. Provisioning MnS Producer returns NETCONF response.

### 6.1.3 Modify Managed Object Instance Attributes

#### 6.1.3.1 Description
Provisioning MnS Consumer sends synchronous provisioning updates to the Provisioning MnS Producer to modify the attributes of a MOI on the Provisioning MnS Producer.

#### 6.1.3.2 Requirements
The mapping of operations specified in 3GPP TS 28.532 [3] clauses 12.1.3.1.1 and 12.1.3.1.4 shall apply.

#### 6.1.3.3 Procedures
The procedure in the present clause is an example adding to the reader's understanding of the interactions for the corresponding Management Service, aiming to help with the implementation of the O1 Interface specification. It outlines a possible flow and does not introduce new conformance requirements. Pre-Conditions:
- NETCONF session has been established with Provisioning MnS Producer. NETCONF session has authorized
privileges into the identified section of the data store.
- Optionally, target data store has been locked.
Procedure: 1. Provisioning MnS Consumer sends NETCONF edit-config create, replace, or delete operation to Provisioning MnS Producer: a. Provisioning MnS Producer modifies the MOI(s) in the target data store as described in the edit-config operation. 2. Provisioning MnS Producer returns NETCONF response.

### 6.1.4 Delete Managed Object Instance

#### 6.1.4.1 Description
Provisioning MnS Consumer sends synchronous provisioning updates to the Provisioning MnS Producer to delete a MOI and its children on the Provisioning MnS Producer.

#### 6.1.4.2 Requirements
The mapping of operations specified in 3GPP TS 28.532 [3] clauses 12.1.3.1.1 and 12.1.3.1.5 shall apply.

#### 6.1.4.3 Procedures
The procedure in the present clause is an example adding to the reader's understanding of the interactions for the corresponding Management Service, aiming to help with the implementation of the O1 Interface specification. It outlines a possible flow and does not introduce new conformance requirements. Pre-Conditions:
- NETCONF session has been established with Provisioning MnS Producer. NETCONF session has authorized
privileges into the identified section of the data store.
- Optionally, target data store has been locked.
Procedure: 1. Provisioning MnS Consumer sends NETCONF edit-config delete or remove operation to Provisioning MnS Producer: a. Provisioning MnS Producer deletes the MOI(s) in the target data store as described in the edit-config operation. 2. Provisioning MnS Producer returns NETCONF response.

### 6.1.5 Read Managed Object Instance Attributes

#### 6.1.5.1 Description
Provisioning MnS Consumer sends synchronous provisioning request to the Provisioning MnS Producer to return the values of attributes of its MOI(s) on the Provisioning MnS Producer.

#### 6.1.5.2 Requirements
The mapping of operations specified in 3GPP TS 28.532 [3] clauses 12.1.3.1.1 and 12.1.3.1.3 shall apply.

#### 6.1.5.3 Procedures
The procedure in the present clause is an example adding to the reader's understanding of the interactions for the corresponding Management Service, aiming to help with the implementation of the O1 Interface specification. It outlines a possible flow and does not introduce new conformance requirements. Pre-Conditions:
- NETCONF session has been established with Provisioning MnS Producer. NETCONF session has authorized
privileges into the identified section of the data store. Procedure: 1. Provisioning MnS Consumer sends NETCONF get or get-config operation to Provisioning MnS Producer: a. Provisioning MnS Producer retrieves the MOI(s) and its attributes from the target data store as described in the get or get-config operation. 2. Provisioning MnS Producer returns the data in the NETCONF response.

### 6.1.6 Notify Managed Object Instance Changes

#### 6.1.6.1 Description
Provisioning MnS Producer sends an asynchronous notifyMOIChanges Notification to the Provisioning MnS Consumer to report configuration changes to one or more MOIs on the Provisioning MnS Producer. Refer to 3GPP TS 28.532 [3] clause 12.1.3.2.5 for details.

#### 6.1.6.2 Requirements
The mapping of notifications specified in 3GPP TS 28.532 [3] clause 11.1.1.11 shall apply.

#### 6.1.6.3 Procedures
The procedure in the present clause is an example adding to the reader's understanding of the interactions for the corresponding Management Service, aiming to help with the implementation of the O1 Interface specification. It outlines a possible flow and does not introduce new conformance requirements. Pre-conditions:
- One or more MOIs are created, deleted or modified in the running data store of the Provisioning MnS
Producer.
- Provisioning MnS Consumer has subscribed for notifyMOIChanges notifications.
Procedure: 1. Provisioning MnS Producer sends notifyMOIChanges notification to the Provisioning MnS Consumer over HTTP/TLS. Mutual certificate authentication is performed. Post-condition:
- Provisioning MnS Consumer reconciles its copy of the Provisioning MnS Producer configuration database
with the change.

#### 6.1.6.4 Operations and Notifications
Refer to clause 5.1 for details on O1 notification formats, including SDO O1 format and VES O1 format notifications, categorized as Harmonized VES. The O1-supported 3GPP-specified CM notification is:
- notifyMOIChanges
A single notifyMOIChanges notification can report one or more MOI creations, MOI deletions and/or MOI attribute value changes in one notification. The attribute name value pairs in the CM notifications are provided using YANG 1.1 encoded in JSON format as specified in RFC 7951 [22].

### 6.1.7 Subscription Control

#### 6.1.7.1 Description
Subscription Control allows a MnS Consumer to subscribe to notifications emitted by a MnS Producer. Starting with 3GPP Release 16, dedicated operations for Management Services Use Cases are supported by IOCs with attributes that can be read and/or set using generic provisioning mechanisms. For Subscription Control, the Subscribe and Unsubscribe operations are replaced with a NtfSubscriptionControl IOC as specified in 3GPP TS 28.622 [7] clause 4.3.22. NtfSubscriptionControl IOC contains attributes that allow a MnS Consumer to set the recipient address for the notifications and identify the scope of notifications desired. Optionally, the types of notifications desired, and notification filtering may also be provided. If filtering of the notifications is supported, only those notifications that match the specified value would be sent. For example, notifyNewAlarm notifications can be filtered to send only those with severity set to major or critical.

#### 6.1.7.2 Requirements
NtfSubscriptionControl IOC definition shall be as specified in 3GPP TS 28.622 [7] clause 4.3.22 with attribute definitions specified in 3GPP TS 28.622 [7] clause 4.4.1. YANG models for NtfSubscriptionControl shall be as specified in 3GPP TS 28.623 [23] clauses 4.4 and E.2.

#### 6.1.7.3 Procedures
NtfSubscriptionControl MOIs can be created and deleted by the system or pre-installed. Optionally, the NtfSubscriptionControl MOIs can be created and deleted, and attributes modified using NETCONF/YANG by the management service consumer following the procedures described in this Provisioning MnS clause.

#### 6.1.7.4 Operations and Notifications
NtfSubscriptionControl IOC can be used to subscribe to notifications. In addition, HeartbeatControl IOC specified in 3GPP TS 28.622 [7] clause 4.3.21 can be used to subscribe to heartbeat notifications as specified in 3GPP TS 28.622 [7] Figure 4.2.1-5; i.e., by creating the HeartbeatControl MOI as a child of the NtfSubscriptionControl MOI.

### 6.1.8 NETCONF Session Establishment

#### 6.1.8.1 Description
Provisioning MnS Consumer uses the NETCONF Session Establishment procedure to establish a NETCONF session on the Provisioning MnS Producer.

#### 6.1.8.2 Requirements
Requirements for NETCONF session establishment specified in RFC 6241[20] shall apply.

#### 6.1.8.3 Procedures
The procedure in the present clause is an example adding to the reader's understanding of the interactions for the corresponding Management Service, aiming to help with the implementation of the O1 Interface specification. It outlines a possible flow and does not introduce new conformance requirements.

### 6.1.9 NETCONF Session Termination

#### 6.1.9.1 Description
Provisioning MnS Consumer uses the NETCONF Session Termination procedure to gracefully terminate a NETCONF session on a Provisioning MnS Producer.

#### 6.1.9.2 Requirements
NETCONF session termination shall be as specified in RFC 6241[20] Section 7.8.

#### 6.1.9.3 Procedures
The procedure in the present clause is an example adding to the reader's understanding of the interactions for the corresponding Management Service, aiming to help with the implementation of the O1 Interface specification. It outlines a possible flow and does not introduce new conformance requirements.

### 6.1.10 Lock Data Store

#### 6.1.10.1 Description
Provisioning MnS Consumer uses the Lock Data Store procedure to lock a target data store on a Provisioning MnS Producer. This procedure is optional, but recommended, to prevent unpredictable behavior during configuration changes.

#### 6.1.10.2 Requirements
NETCONF lock data store should be as specified in RFC 6241 [20] Section 7.5.

#### 6.1.10.3 Procedures
The procedure in the present clause is an example adding to the reader's understanding of the interactions for the corresponding Management Service, aiming to help with the implementation of the O1 Interface specification. It outlines a possible flow and does not introduce new conformance requirements.

### 6.1.11 Unlock Data Store

#### 6.1.11.1 Description
Provisioning MnS Consumer uses the Unlock Data Store procedure to unlock a target data store on a Provisioning MnS Producer.

#### 6.1.11.2 Requirements
NETCONF unlock data store should be as specified in RFC 6241 [20] Section 7.6.

#### 6.1.11.3 Procedures
The procedure in the present clause is an example adding to the reader's understanding of the interactions for the corresponding Management Service, aiming to help with the implementation of the O1 Interface specification. It outlines a possible flow and does not introduce new conformance requirements.

### 6.1.12 Commit

#### 6.1.12.1 Description
Provisioning MnS Consumer uses the Commit procedure to commit a configuration change to the running data store of the Provisioning MnS Producer. This is necessary to make the configuration change effective if it was made in the candidate data store. If the configuration change was made in the running data store, the commit procedure is not used.

#### 6.1.12.2 Requirements
Requirements for NETCONF commit specified in RFC 6241 [20] Section 8.4 shall apply.

#### 6.1.12.3 Procedures
The procedure in the present clause is an example adding to the reader's understanding of the interactions for the corresponding Management Service, aiming to help with the implementation of the O1 Interface specification. It outlines a possible flow and does not introduce new conformance requirements.

### 6.1.13 Notify Event

#### 6.1.13.1 Description
Provisioning MnS Producer sends an asynchronous notifyEvent Notification to the Provisioning MnS Consumer to report a network event has occurred with potential service impacts. Please, refer to 3GPP TS 28.532 [3] clause 11.1.1.10 for details.

#### 6.1.13.2 Requirements
The mapping of notifications specified in 3GPP TS 28.532 [3] clause 11.1.1.10 and the NETCONF/YANG solution set specified in 3GPP TS 28.532 [3] clause 12.1.3.2.6 shall apply.

#### 6.1.13.3 Procedures
The procedure in the present clause is an example adding to the reader's understanding of the interactions for the corresponding Management Service, aiming to help with the implementation of the O1 Interface specification. It outlines a possible flow and does not introduce new conformance requirements. Pre-conditions:
- A notification subscription including NotifyEvent has been explicitly or implicitly created specifying the
Provisioning Mns Consumer as the notification recipient.
- One or more network events have occurred with potential service impact
Procedure: 1. Provisioning MnS Producer sends notifyEvent notification to the Provisioning MnS Consumer over HTTP/TLS. Mutual certificate authentication is performed. Post-condition:
- Provisioning MnS Consumer has received a notifyEvent notification

#### 6.1.13.4 Operations and Notifications
Refer to clause 5.1 for details on O1 notification formats, including SDO O1 format and VES O1 format notifications, categorized as Harmonized VES. The O1-supported 3GPP-specified CM notification is:
- notifyEvent

## 6.2 Fault Supervision Management Services

### 6.2.0 Overview
Fault supervision management services allow a Fault Supervision MnS Producer to report errors and events to a Fault Supervision MnS Consumer and allows a Fault Supervision MnS Consumer to perform fault supervision operations on the Fault Supervision MnS Producer, such as get alarm list. The Fault supervision management services include the optional capability of Fault History Supervision Control and Reporting. Stage 1 Fault Supervision MnS is specified in 3GPP TS 28.111 [26]. Stage 2 Fault Supervision notifications are specified in 3GPP TS 28.111 [26] clause 8. Stage 2 AlarmList IOC and AlarmRecord data type are specified in 3GPP TS 28.111 [26] clauses 7.3.2 and 7.3.1. Stage 3 Solution Set for NETCONF/YANG is specified in 3GPP TS 28.111 [26] annex A.3.

### 6.2.1 Fault Notification

#### 6.2.1.1 Description
Fault Supervision MnS Producer sends asynchronous Fault notification event to Fault Supervision MnS Consumer when an alarm occurs, is cleared, or changes severity.

#### 6.2.1.2 Requirements
The following fault supervision data report service requirements specified in 3GPP TS 28.111 [26] clause 5 shall apply:
- REQ-FM-MC-1 for sending alarm notifications
- REQ-FM-MC-2 for alarm notification subscription
- REQ-FM-MC-3 for alarm notification unsubscription
- REQ-FM-MC-5 for reading the alarm list
- REQ-FM-MC-6 for reading the alarm list with a filter
- REQ-FM-MC-7 for sending changed alarm notifications
- REQ-FM-MC-8 for sending cleared alarm notifications
- REQ-FM-MC-9 for sending new alarm notifications
- REQ-FM-MC-11 for sending alarm list rebuilt notification
The following requirement from 3GPP TS 28.111 [26] clause 5 may apply:
- REQ-FM-MC-4 for filtering the alarm notifications that are reported
> NOTE: Filtering is best done at the SMO level.

#### 6.2.1.3 Procedures
Procedures for subscription and notifications are described in 3GPP TS 28.622 [7] clause 4.3.22 and 3GPP TS 28.111 [26] clause 6.12.

#### 6.2.1.4 Operations and Notifications
Refer to clause 5.1 for details on O1 notification formats, including SDO O1 format and VES O1 format notifications, categorized as Harmonized VES. The Fault Supervision MnS Producer shall support the following 3GPP-specified Fault Supervision notifications are:
- notifyNewAlarm
- notifyChangedAlarmGeneral
- notifyClearedAlarm
- notifyAlarmListRebuilt
NotifyChangedAlarmGeneral permits the producer to report the severity change and any other attribute changes associated with this alarm in a single notification. The other 3GPP Fault Supervision notifications specified in 3GPP TS 28.111 [26] are optional. The Fault Supervision MnS Producer should support the following 3GPP-specified Fault Supervision notifications:
- notifyAckStateChanged
If the NF supports alarm acknowledgement, it should have the capability to provide NotifyAckStateChanged.

### 6.2.2 Fault Supervision Control

#### 6.2.2.1 Description
Starting with 3GPP Release 16, dedicated operations for Management Services Use Cases are supported by IOCs with attributes that can be read and/or set using generic provisioning mechanisms. For Fault Supervision, an AlarmList IOC is specified in 3GPP TS 28.111 [26] clause 7.3.2 that represents the capability to store and manage alarm records. There is one AlarmList per Fault Supervision MnS Producer, created by the Producer. The AlarmList contains one AlarmRecord for each active alarm. The AlarmRecords in the AlarmList can be read by the Fault Supervision MnS Consumer, with an optional filter to retrieve selected AlarmRecords based on the value of attributes in the AlarmRecord. For example, Fault Supervision MnS Consumer is able to retrieve only those AlarmRecords with perceivedSeverity = CRITICAL.

#### 6.2.2.2 Requirements
The following fault supervision data control service requirements from 3GPP TS 28.111 [26] clause 5 may apply to the Fault Supervision MnS Producer:
- REQ-FM-MC-12 to support alarm acknowledgement.
> NOTE 1: There is no Use Case that requires a NF to acknowledge an alarm. This operation is best done at the
SMO level.
- NF that does not support the alarm acknowledgement from the MnS Consumer shall consider cleared alarms
as automatically acknowledged so that they may be removed from the AlarmList.
- REQ-FM-MC-13 to support manual alarm clearing.
> NOTE 2: Manual clearing of alarms is only for ADMC (Automatically Detected, Manually Cleared) alarms.
- NF that supports ADMC alarms should support the manual alarm clearing operation.
- REQ-FM-MC-14 to support acknowledgement state change notifications.
> NOTE 3: There is no Use Case that requires a NF to acknowledge an alarm. This operation is best done at the
SMO level.
- NF that supports the alarm acknowledgement should support the acknowledgement state change notifications.
AlarmList IOC definition shall be as specified in 3GPP TS 28.111 [26] clause 7.3.2 with attribute definitions in specified in 3GPP TS 28.111 [26] clause 7.4.1. YANG solution set for AlarmList IOC shall be as specified in 3GPP TS 28.111 [26] clause A.3.

#### 6.2.2.3 Procedures
NETCONF protocol and YANG data models are used to get and set the attributes of the AlarmRecords in the AlarmList. Refer to clause 6.1 for procedures to read MOI attributes and modify MOI attributes using NETCONF.

#### 6.2.2.4 Void

### 6.2.3 Fault History Supervision Control and Reporting

#### 6.2.3.1 Description
The Fault History Supervision Control and Reporting allows a Fault Supervision MnS Producer to report to a Fault Supervision MnS Consumer relevant information about raised, changed, or cleared alarms in the past. Generalizing, it allows to report information about alarms updates. When an alarm is raised, the Fault Supervision MnS Producer stores the relevant initial data of a new alarm, according to the information exposed by the notifyNewAlarm notification. When an alarm is modified or cleared, the Fault Supervision MnS Producer stores the relevant data of the alarm change, according to the information exposed by the notifyChangeAlarm/notifyChangedAlarmGeneral, or notifyClearedAlarm. When an alarm list is locked or disabled, alarm records are not reliable, as consequences also the capability of the Fault Supervision MnS Producer to store alarm changes is not reliable.

#### 6.2.3.2 Requirements
The following requirements shall apply:
- REQ-FSHQ_MC-1 The Fault Supervision MnS Producer shall have the capability to store the relevant data of
alarms updates if the Fault History Supervision Control and Reporting capability is provided.
- REQ-FSHQ_MC-2 The Fault Supervision MnS Producer shall have the capability to store the alarm updates
even when the ability to send alarm notifications to subscribed consumer(s) is not available (e.g. during a disturbance), if Fault History Supervision Control and Reporting capability is provided.
- REQ-FSHQ_MC-3 The Fault Supervision MnS Producer shall allow authorized consumers to retrieve the
stored alarm updates if Fault History Supervision Control and Reporting capability is provided.
> NOTE: The Fault Supervision MnS Producer allows authorized consumers to retrieve alarm updates for a
specific time window. The time window may include present time.
- REQ-FSHQ_MC-4 The Fault Supervision MnS Producer shall have the capability to store the
notifyAlarmListRebuilt notification if Fault History Supervision Control and Reporting capability is provided. In case, it may also have the capability to store the notifyPotentialFaultyAlarmList notification.
- REQ-FSHQ_MC-5 The Fault Supervision MnS Producer should have the capability to report the
perceivedSeverity at the time of the alarm creation, if Fault History Supervision Control and Reporting capability is provided.

## 6.3 Performance Assurance Management Services

### 6.3.0 Overview
Performance Assurance Management Services allow a Performance Assurance MnS Producer to report file-based (bulk) and/or streaming (real time) performance data to a Performance Assurance MnS Consumer and allows a Performance Assurance MnS Consumer to perform performance assurance operations on the Performance Assurance MnS Producer, such as selecting the measurements to be reported and setting the frequency of reporting. Use cases for PM services are specified in 3GPP TS 28.550 [6] clause 5.1. Stage 2 notifyFileReady and notifyFilePreparationError notifications are specified in 3GPP TS 28.532 [3]. Stage 2 PerfMetricJob IOC is specified in 3GPP TS 28.622 [7] clause 4.3.31. Stage 3 Solution Sets for XML, JSON and YANG are specified in 3GPP TS 28.623 [23]. Stage 2 and 3 for streaming data reporting service are specified in 3GPP TS 28.532 [3]. 3GPP defined 5G performance measurements are specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [i.5]. In addition to the 3GPP-defined measurements, it is possible to have O-RAN defined measurements and vendor supplied measurements. Clause 6.3.4 provides requirements for O-RAN defined measurements. O-RAN defined measurements are named with an "OR." prefix. Vendor supplied measurements are named with a "VS." prefix.

### 6.3.1 Performance Data File Reporting

#### 6.3.1.1 Description

# A Performance Assurance MnS Producer that provides file-based (bulk) performance data reporting shall support the PM data pull-based file reporting method and/or the PM data push-based file reporting method.
In the pull-based file reporting method for PM data file reporting, the Performance Assurance MnS Producer sends asynchronous notifyFileReady notification event to Performance Assurance MnS Consumer when PM File(s) is ready for retrieval or the Performance Assurance MnS producer sends asynchronous notifyFilePreparationError notification event to Performance Assurance MnS Consumer when there is any error while preparing the file(s). The notifyFileReady notification contains information needed to retrieve the file such as filename and the location where the file can be retrieved. Performance Assurance MnS Consumer retrieves the PM File(s) from the location specified in the notifyFileReady notification. The notifyFilePreparationError notification contains error reasons as specified in 3GPP TS 28.532 [3], clause 11.6.1.2.2. In the push-based file reporting method the Performance Assurance MnS Producer makes PM Files(s) available for retrieval by transferring the PM File(s) to an entity such as a designated file server or to the Performance Assurance MnS Consumer as described in 3GPP TS 28.537 [4] clause 7.3.1. The file location where the PM File(s) are to be pushed, the designated file server, is identified by the Performance Assurance MnS Consumer when creating the PerfMetricJob IOC using the "FileLocation" attribute. If the Performance Assurance MnS Producer is capable of providing notifications related to the file transfer operation using the notifyFileReady or notifyFilePreparationError notification event, the Performance Assurance MnS Producer can send the notifyFileReady or notifyFilePreparationError notification event to the subscribed Performance Assurance MnS Consumers. When transferring files, a secure connection is established between the Performance Assurance MnS Producer and the Performance Assurance MnS Consumer or the designated file server and the method for reporting the collected PM data to the MnS Consumer is defined in the PerfMetricJob IOC (see clause 6.3.3).

#### 6.3.1.2 Requirements

##### 6.3.1.2.1 Pull-based Performance Data File Reporting Requirements
When the pull-based Performance Data File Reporting method is used, the requirements specified in 3GPP TS 28.550 [6] clause 5.2.2 shall apply.

##### 6.3.1.2.2 Push-based Performance Data File Reporting Requirements
When the push-based Performance Data File Reporting method is used, the following requirements apply. REQ-OPM-PUSH-FUN1: The Performance Assurance MnS Producer responsible for the push-based Performance Data File Reporting method shall have the capability to send the NF performance data file to its authorized Performance Assurance MnS Consumer or a designated file server as described in 3GPP 28.537 [4] clause 7.3.1. REQ-OPM-PUSH-FUN2: The Performance Assurance MnS Producer responsible for the push-based Performance Data File Reporting method shall provide support for the file transfer protocols specified in 3GPP TS 28.537 [4] clause 7.1.3 in the client role of the protocol. REQ-OPM-PUSH-FUN3: The Performance Assurance MnS Consumer responsible for the push-based Performance Data File Reporting method shall provide support for the file transfer protocols specified in 3GPP TS 28.537 [4] clause 7.1.3 in the server role of the protocol. REQ-OPM-PUSH-FUN4: The Performance Assurance MnS Producer responsible for the push-based Performance Data File Reporting method shall provide the ability to announce the capability to support notifications related to the completion of the file transfer. REQ-OPM-PUSH-FUN5: When supported, the Performance Assurance MnS Producer responsible for the push-based Performance Data File Reporting method shall provide the Performance Assurance MnS Consumers the ability to subscribe to receive notifications related to completion of the file transfer.

#### 6.3.1.3 Procedures

##### 6.3.1.3.1 Pull-based Performance Data File Reporting Procedure
6.3.1.3.1.0 Introduction When the pull-based Performance Data File Reporting method is used, the procedure based on the use case described in 3GPP TS 28.550 [6] clause 5.1.1.2 is used. 6.3.1.3.1.1 Pull-based Performance Data File Reporting Procedure for file ready events The procedure in the present clause is an example adding to the reader's understanding of the interactions for the corresponding Management Service, aiming to help with the implementation of the O1 Interface specification. It outlines a possible flow and does not introduce new conformance requirements. In the pull-based file reporting method for PM data file reporting, the Performance Assurance MnS Producer sends asynchronous notifyFileReady notification event to Performance Assurance MnS Consumer when PM File(s) is ready for retrieval as specified in 3GPP TS 28.532 [3], clause 11.6.1.1.1. Pre-condition:
- Performance Assurance MnS Consumer has subscribed to notifyFileReady notifications.
Procedure: 1. A new PM data file is available on the Performance Assurance MnS Producer. 2. Performance Assurance MnS Producer sends notifyFileReady notification to Performance Assurance MnS Consumer over HTTP/TLS. Mutual certificate authentication is performed. 3. Performance Assurance MnS Consumer sets up a secure file transfer protocol connection to the location provided in the notifyFileReady notification and gets the PM data file(s). Secure file transfer protocols are described in 3GPP TS 28.537 [4], clause 7.1.3. 6.3.1.3.1.2 Pull-based Performance Data File Reporting Procedure for file preparation error events The procedure in the present clause is an example adding to the reader's understanding of the interactions for the corresponding Management Service, aiming to help with the implementation of the O1 Interface specification. It outlines a possible flow and does not introduce new conformance requirements. In the pull-based file reporting method for PM data file reporting, the Performance Assurance MnS producer sends asynchronous notifyFilePreparationError notification event to Performance Assurance MnS Consumer when there is any error while preparing the file(s), as specified in 3GPP TS 28.532 [3], clause 11.6.1.2.1. Pre-condition:
- Performance Assurance MnS Consumer has subscribed to notifyFilePreparationError notifications.
Procedure: 1. A new PM data file(s) could not be prepared due to an error which occurred while preparing the file. 2. Performance Assurance MnS producer sends notifyFilePreparationError notification to Performance Assurance MnS consumer over HTTP/TLS with the reason of the error. Reasons for the error are as described in 3GPP TS 28.532 [3], clause 11.6.1.2.2.

##### 6.3.1.3.2 Push-based Performance Data File Reporting Procedure
6.3.1.3.2.0 Introduction When the push-based Performance Data File Reporting method is used, the following procedures are used when the PM file(s) is ready for retrieval or when there is an error while preparing the file. 6.3.1.3.2.1 Push-based Performance Data File Reporting Procedure with optional file ready event The procedure in the present clause is an example adding to the reader's understanding of the interactions for the corresponding Management Service, aiming to help with the implementation of the O1 Interface specification. It outlines a possible flow and does not introduce new conformance requirements. When the push-based Performance Data File Reporting method is used, and if Performance Assurance MnS producer is capable of providing notification to the Performance Assurance MnS Consumer when PM file(s) is ready for retrieval, the following procedure is used. Pre-condition:
- Performance Assurance MnS Producer is configured to produce push-based file reporting to the location of a
file server or to the Performance Assurance MnS Consumer, as designated by the Performance Assurance MnS Consumer at the PerfMetricJob IOC creation. (Figure 6.3.1.3.2.1-1 depicts the scenario of pushing the file to a designated file server)
- A PM data file is available at the Performance Assurance MnS Producer to transmit to the File Server.
- (Optionally) Performance Assurance MnS Consumer has subscribed to file transfer operation notifications.
Procedure: 1. PM File(s) are available to the Performance Assurance MnS Producer 2. Performance Assurance MnS Producer transmits the PM file(s) to the Performance Assurance MnS Consumer or to a file server designated by the Performance Assurance MnS Consumer by the file location provided in the PerfMetricJob. 3. If the Performance Assurance MnS Producer is capable of reporting file notifications and Performance Assurance MnS Consumer has subscribed to receive the notifications, the Performance Assurance MnS Producer sends notifyFileReady notification to the Performance Assurance MnS Consumer after the file transfer. 4. In case of push-based file reporting method to a designated filer server, Performance Assurance MnS Consumer retrieves the PM file(s) from the File Server 6.3.1.3.2.2 Push-based Performance Data File Reporting Procedure with optional file preparation error event The procedure in the present clause is an example adding to the reader's understanding of the interactions for the corresponding Management Service, aiming to help with the implementation of the O1 Interface specification. It outlines a possible flow and does not introduce new conformance requirements. When the push-based Performance Data File Reporting method is used, and if Performance Assurance MnS producer is capable of providing notification to the Performance Assurance MnS Consumer when there is error in preparing the PM file(s), the following procedure is used. Pre-condition:
- Performance Assurance MnS Producer is configured to produce push-based file reporting to the location of a
file server or to the Performance Assurance MnS Consumer, as designated by the Performance Assurance MnS Consumer at the PerfMetricJob IOC creation.
- (Optionally) Performance Assurance MnS Consumer has subscribed to file transfer operation notifications.
Procedure: 1. A new PM data file(s) could not be prepared due to an error which occurred while preparing the file. 2. If the Performance Assurance MnS Producer is capable of reporting file notifications and Performance Assurance MnS Consumer has subscribed to receive the notifications, the Performance Assurance MnS Producer sends notifyFilePrepartionError notification to the Performance Assurance MnS Consumer with the reason of the error. Reasons for the error are as described in 3GPP TS 28.532 [3], clause 11.6.1.2.2.

#### 6.3.1.4 Operations and Notifications
Refer to clause 5.1 for details on O1 notification formats, including SDO O1 format and VES O1 format notifications, categorized as Harmonized VES. The O1-supported 3GPP-specified file transfer operation notifications are:
- notifyFileReady;
- notifyFilePreparationError.

#### 6.3.1.5 PM File Generation and Reporting
When the pull-based Performance Data File Reporting method is used, the following PM File Generation and Reporting requirements apply:
- PM file generation and reporting shall be as specified in 3GPP TS 28.532 [3] clause 11.6.
When the push-based Performance Data File Reporting method is used, the following PM File Generation and Reporting requirements apply:
- The Performance Assurance MnS Producer shall support the file transfer protocols 3GPP TS 28.537 [4] clause
7.1.3.
- The Performance Assurance MnS Producer shall always act as the client while the MnS consumer shall always
act as the server of file transfer actions.

#### 6.3.1.6 PM File Content
PM file content shall be as specified in 3GPP TS 28.532 [3] clause 11.3.2.1.2.

#### 6.3.1.7 PM File Naming
PM file naming shall be as specified in 3GPP TS 28.532 [3] clause 11.3.2.1.4.

#### 6.3.1.8 PM File XML Format
PM file XML format shall be as specified in 3GPP TS 28.532 [3] clause 12.3.2 and/or in 3GPP TS 32.432 [14] clause 4.1.

#### 6.3.1.9 Void

### 6.3.2 Performance Data Streaming

#### 6.3.2.1 Description
Performance Assurance MnS Producer steams high volume asynchronous streaming performance measurement data to Performance Assurance MnS Consumer at a configurable frequency. A secure WebSocket connection is established between the Performance Assurance MnS Producer and the Performance Assurance MnS Consumer. The connection supports the transmission of one or more streams of PM data. Each stream of PM data is configured as a PerfMetricJob (see clause 6.3.3). The Performance Assurance MnS Producer supplies information about the supported streams to the consumer during the connection establishment. The connection may be established to support one or more streams. Streams can be added or removed from the connection as the PerfMetricJobs are added or deleted. The connectionID that carries the streaming PM data is provided to the Performance Assurance MnS Producer during the establishment of the WebSocket connection by the Performance Assurance MnS Consumer.

#### 6.3.2.2 Requirements
Requirements for Streaming PM specified in 3GPP TS 28.550 [6] clause 5.2.3 shall apply.

#### 6.3.2.3 Procedures
The procedure in the present clause is an example adding to the reader's understanding of the interactions for the corresponding Management Service, aiming to help with the implementation of the O1 Interface specification. It outlines a possible flow and does not introduce new conformance requirements. Use Cases for Streaming PM are described in 3GPP TS 28.550 [6] clause 5.1.1.3. Operations and notifications described in 3GPP TS 28.532 [3] clause 11.5 are applicable to both Streaming PM and Streaming Trace. Pre-condition:
- Performance Assurance MnS Producer is configured to produce PerfMetricJob to be delivered via streaming
PM to the Performance Assurance MnS Consumer. Procedure: 1. Performance Assurance MnS Producer requests to establish a WebSocket connection to begin streaming PM data and provides MetaData about the streams that are to be sent on the connection 2. Performance Assurance MnS Consumer accepts the request to upgrade the connection to a WebSocket. 3. Performance Assurance MnS Producer transmits binary encoded data to consumer while performance job is active.

#### 6.3.2.4 Operations and Notifications
3GPP TS 28.532 [3] clause 11.5.1 defines the following operations that an O-RAN compliant NF that supports streaming PM shall support. These are the same operations as listed in clause 6.4.6. They are repeated here, as it is possible that a NF may support different levels of streaming for trace and performance assurance.
- establishStreamingConnection operation is specified in 3GPP TS 28.532 [3] clause 11.5.1.1. Establishing the
streaming connection is initiated via an HTTPS POST followed by an HTTP GET (upgrade) to establish the WebSocket connection.
- terminateStreamingConnection operation is specified in 3GPP TS 28.532 [3] clause 11.5.1.2. This operation is
accomplished via a WebSocket Close Frame to tear down the streaming connection when all stream jobs on this connection have been terminated. The delivery of WebSocket Close Frame is provided by the underlying TCP.
- reportStreamData operation is specified in 3GPP TS 28.532 [3] clause 11.5.1.3. The streamData field contains
the streaming PM data which is encoded according to the format defined in 3GPP TS 28.550 [6] Annex G which provides the ASN.1 definition of the Performance Data Stream Units. The delivery of WebSocket Close Frame is provided by the underlying TCP. If O-RAN NF supports the capability of sending multiple PM streams across the WebSocket connection, the following operations shall be supported.
- addStream operation is specified in 3GPP TS 28.532 [3] clause 11.5.1.4. This operation is used when a new
Performance Assurance Stream (PM job started) is added on the Performance Assurance MnS Producer to be delivered to this consumer and the NF supports multiple streams per connection. The addStream operation is accomplished via an HTTP POST.
- deleteStream operation is specified in 3GPP TS 28.532 [3] clause 11.5.1.5. This operation is used when a
Performance Assurance Stream (PM job stopped) is deleted from the connection between the Performance Assurance MnS Producer and the Performance Assurance MnS Consumer. The deleteStream operation is accomplished via an HTTP DELETE. The following operations specified in 3GPP TS 28.532 [3] clause 11.5.1 may be supported by O-RAN NFs:
- getConnectionInfo operation is specified in 3GPP TS 28.532 [3] clause 11.5.1.6. This operation allows the
performance data streaming service producer to get information from the performance data streaming service consumer on the streams active on the connection.
- getStreamInfo operation is specified in 3GPP TS 28.532 [3] clause 11.5.1.7. This operation allows the
performance data streaming service producer to get the information for one or more streams from the streaming consumer (i.e., stream target). No notifications have been defined for Performance Data Streaming.

#### 6.3.2.5 PM Streaming Data Generation and Reporting
3GPP TS 28.550 [6] Annex C lists all the Performance Data Stream Unit Content Items. Annex C of the present document provides a description of the establishment of the WebSocket connection and the subsequent operations provided as part of the data streaming service. The example utilizes the trace service, but the operations around the establishment and tear down of the connection are the same for streaming PM and streaming Trace. The WebSocket connection remains until all streams configured to be provided between the Performance Assurance MnS Producer and the Performance Assurance MnS Consumer have been terminated.

#### 6.3.2.6 PM Streaming Data Format
PM Streaming data shall be delivered according to the format specified in the input parameters of the establishStreamConnection operation specified in 3GPP TS 28.532 [3] clause 11.5.1.1.2.

### 6.3.3 Measurement Job Control

#### 6.3.3.1 Description
Starting with 3GPP Release 16, Performance Assurance Control supported by IOCs with attributes that can be read and/or set using generic provisioning mechanisms in the Measurement Job Control Service. Measurement jobs can be created and terminated by creating and deleting a PerfMetricJob MOI. Measurement jobs can be queried by getting the attributes of a PerfMetricJob MOI. Measurement jobs can be temporarily suspended or resumed by modifying the administrativeState attribute of a PerfMetricJob MOI to LOCKED or UNLOCKED.

#### 6.3.3.2 Requirements
Requirements for measurement job control specified in 3GPP TS 28.550 [6] clause 5.2.1 shall apply. PerfMetricJob IOC definition shall be as specified in 3GPP TS 28.622 [7] clause 4.3.31 with attribute definitions in specified in 3GPP TS 28.622 [7] clause 4.4.1. SupportedPerfMetricGroup datatype shall be as specified in 3GPP TS 28.622 [7] clause 4.3.32. ReportingCtrl shall be as specified in 3GPP TS 28.622 [7] clause 4.3.33. YANG solution set for PerfMetricJob IOC shall be as specified in 3GPP TS 28.623 [23] clauses 4.4 and E.2.

#### 6.3.3.3 Procedures
Measurement job creation, termination, query, suspend and resume are described in 3GPP TS 28.622 [7] clause 4.3.31. NETCONF protocol and YANG data models are used to create MOI, delete MOI, modify attributes and get attributes of a PerfMetricJob. Refer to Provisioning management services clause for detailed procedures on how to perform these operations using NETCONF.

#### 6.3.3.4 Void

### 6.3.4 O-RAN Defined Performance Measurements
O1 performance measurements are defined in the O-RAN O1 Performance Measurements Specification [i.17] and 3GPP TS 28.552 [i.5]. PMCountGroup and CuCountGroup, described in O1 Interface specification for O-DU [i.19] and O1 Interface specification for O-CU-UP and O-CU-CP [i.20] respectively, can be used as filtering mechanisms for O-RAN defined O1 performance measurements. Filtering mechanisms defined in clause 4.2 of 3GPP TS 28.552 [i.5] can be used as well.

#### 6.3.4.1 Void

## 6.4 Trace Management Services

### 6.4.0 Overview
Trace management services allow a Trace MnS Producer to report file-based or streaming trace records to the Trace MnS Consumer. Trace Control provides the ability for the Trace MnS Consumer to start a trace session by configuring a Trace Job via the Trace Control IOC or by establishing a trace session that propagates trace parameters to other Trace MnS Producers via signaling. There are multiple levels of trace that can be supported on the Trace MnS Producer as described in 3GPP TS 32.421 [11] clause 4.1. The Trace MnS Producer may be configured to support file-based trace reporting or streaming trace reporting. Trace Management Services specified in 3GPP TS 32.421 [11], 3GPP TS 32.422 [12] and 3GPP TS 32.423 [13] and supported on an applicable O-RAN ME include Call Trace, Minimization of Drive Testing (MDT), RRC Connection Establishment Failure (RCEF) and Radio Link Failure TCE (RLF). All of these services follow a similar management paradigm. Trace Sessions are configured on the Trace MnS Producer with information on where and how to send the trace information to the consumer. The Trace MnS Producer creates trace records within a trace session as the trigger mechanism occurs. Trace records are produced and provided to the consumer until the trace session is terminated. File-based trace collects trace records in files that are available to the consumer with a time delay. In the case of streaming trace, the data is sent in bursts across a WebSocket connection to the consumer, maintaining the relevance of the data while minimizing transport overhead. Stage 1 Trace Management Service is specified in 3GPP TS 32.421 [11]. Use cases for trace are specified in clause 5.8 and elaborated in 3GPP TS 32.421 [11] Annex A. General Trace Requirements are found in 3GPP TS 32.421 [11] clause 5.1. Stage 2 Trace Operations are found in 3GPP TS 32.422 [12] for 5G support of Call Trace and for streaming trace. Stage 2 TraceJob IOC for management-based control is specified in 3GPP TS 28.622 [7] clause 4.3.30. Stage 2 for signaling based activation is found in 3GPP TS 32.422 [12]. Stage 3 definitions of trace record content for all trace types, XML trace file format, and streaming trace GPB record definition are found in 3GPP TS 32.423 [13]. Stage 3 TraceJob IOC mapping for management-based control is specified in 3GPP TS 28.623 [23] clauses 4.3, 4.4, E.1 and E.2. Stage 2 and 3 definitions for streaming data reporting are specified in 3GPP TS 28.532 [3].

### 6.4.1 Call Trace

#### 6.4.1.1 Trace Data Reporting

##### 6.4.1.1.1 Description
Trace Data can be reported from the Trace MnS Producer to the Trace MnS Consumer via trace files or via a streaming interface. For management-based activation, Trace Data is collected after the TraceJob is configured on the Trace MnS Producer, the Trace Session is activated, and the triggering event occurs. For signaling-based activation, the Trace Recording Session starts when the NF receives trace control and configuration parameters via one of the signaling messages specified in 3GPP TS 32.422 [12] clause 4.2.3.12. When the Trace MnS Producer collects trace data to a file, the file is periodically provided to the Trace MnS Consumer. When the producer supports streaming trace, the trace is sent to the consumer via data bursts which are sent frequently enough to retain the relevance of the data while conserving transport resources. The WebSocket connection carrying the streaming trace is preserved for the duration of the streaming trace.

##### 6.4.1.1.2 Requirements
Requirements for Trace data specified in 3GPP TS 32.421 [11] clause 5.2 shall apply to both file-based and streaming trace.

##### 6.4.1.1.3 Procedures
Trace Data is binary encoded and reported in Trace Records. The procedures for reporting data are described in 3GPP TS 32.422 [12] clause 7. File-based trace reporting procedures are described in 3GPP TS 32.422 [12] clauses 7.1.1 and 7.2.1. Streaming trace reporting procedures are described in 3GPP TS 32.422 [12] clauses 7.1.2 and 7.2.2. Trace Record Contents are described in 3GPP TS 32.423 [13] clause 4. The Trace Record content is the same for trace jobs controlled by management-based activation and signaling-based activation. The raw trace record content is the same for file-based trace and streaming trace. Trace data is binary encoded in ASN.1. File-based trace is delivered in XML format with trace records encoded in ASN.1. Streaming trace is delivered in GPB encoded data bursts with the trace record payload containing ASN.1 encoded data. Procedures for naming the trace data file are described in 3GPP TS 32.423 [13] Annex B. File Naming Convention is described in 3GPP TS 32.423 [13] clause B.1. Trace files are produced in XML format. The XML format is described in 3GPP TS 32.423 [13] clause A2.2. Example XML files are provided in 3GPP TS 32.423 [13] Annex D. If a trace file cannot be created, a trace failure notification file XML schema can be sent. The XML schema is provided in 3GPP TS 32.422 [12] clause A.5 and the naming convention for the file containing the failure is described in clause A.4. For streaming trace, raw trace data is collected on the node and sent to the trace collector. The trace data is binary encoded. The format of the streaming trace data is provided in 3GPP TS 32.423 [13]. The reportStreamData operation is described in 3GPP TS 28.532 [3] clause 12.5.1.1.4.

#### 6.4.1.2 Trace Session Activation

##### 6.4.1.2.1 Description
A trace session starts on a producer configured to support a TraceJob via management or signaling-based activation. Management-based trace session activation is initiated from the Provisioning Management Service Consumer to activation, the producer receives a signaling message that contains trace consumer ID address (IP address for file-based or URI for streaming) along with trace control parameters. Each Trace session has a unique trace session identifier that is associated with all of the trace data collected for this session. If the trace session is configured to be file-based, the producer collects the data and stores the data in a file. The producer optionally sends the file directly to the consumer or sends the location of the file to the consumer. File transport approach is not standardized. 3GPP TS 28.532 [3] supports the streaming of trace data from the producer to the consumer. Trace data for a trace session is collected and transmitted to the producer across a secure WebSocket connection in data bursts which are emitted frequently enough to ensure the relevance of the data while conserving transport resources. See clause 6.4.6 and


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG10.TS.O1NRM.0-R004-v04.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG10.TS.O1NRM.0-R004-v04.00 Technical Specification O-RAN Work Group 10 (OAM for O-RAN)"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in [i.1] and the following apply: Information Model: a representation of concepts and the relationships, constraints, rules, and operations to specify data semantics for a chosen domain of discourse, it specifies relations between objects, can provide sharable, stable, and organized structure of information requirements or knowledge for the domain context. Data Model: an abstract model that organizes elements of data and standardizes how they relate to one another and to the properties of real-world entities. The term data model may refer to two distinct but closely related concepts: (1) an abstract formalization of the objects and relationships found in a particular application domain; (2) the set of concepts used in defining such formalizations - for example concepts such as entities, attributes, relations, or tables.

## 3.2 Symbols
Void

## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in [i.1] and the following apply: BS Base Station CRB Common Resource Block DN Distinguished Name IOC Information Object Class MnS Management Service MOI Managed Object Instance NES Network Energy Saving NRM Network Resource Model O-DU O-RAN Distributed Unit O-RAN Open Radio Access Network O-RU O-RAN Radio Unit

# 4 Requirements

## 4.1 General Requirements
The following general requirements apply: Requirement Description Motivation label REQ-NRM-MC-1 O1 NRM stage 2 shall follow the templates described in clause 5.2 of Identify the templates 3GPP TS 32.160 [1], using the applicable fonts defined in Table 5.1.1- and fonts to be used for of 3GPP TS 32.160 [1]. the definition of O1 network resource model REQ-NRM-MC-2 The O1 NRM stage 2 shall follow the model repertoire documented in Identify common set of 3GPP TS 32.156 [2] UML notations to model network resources REQ-NRM-MC-3 The mapping rules (traceability) defined in O-RAN WG10 IM/DM TS Identify traceability [17] clause 6.2, shall be applicable to O-RAN O1 YANG modules. In rules for O1 YANG c ase of ambiguity, the definition in this document takes precedence. modules REQ-NRM-MC-4 In addition to the naming rules defined in O-RAN WG10 IM/DM TS Identify naming rules [17] clause 6.2.2, following extensions shall be applied to O1 YANG for O1 YANG modules modules:
- MODULE NAMING: The <identifier> element is mandatory and
shall have the value of “o1”.
- PREFIX NAMING: The <org> element is mandatory and shall
have the value of “or”. The <abbreviatedidentifier> element is mandatory and shall have the value of “o1”. REQ-NRM-MC-5 The rules defined in 3GPP TS 32.160 [1] clause 6.2 shall be Identify the rules for the applicable to O-RAN YANG modules except for the following ones: development of YANG clause 6.2.1.1 Modeling Resources, 6.2.1.2 Unique YANG Module data models compatible names, 6.2.1.3 Unique YANG Namespace, 6.2.1.4 Unique YANG with O1 Module Prefixes, 6.2.1.11 Module header statements, 6.2.1.12 Provide description and reference statements, and 6.2.1.19 Copyright. In case of ambiguity, the definition in this document takes precedence, extended by the ones in O-RAN WG10 IM/DM TS [17] c lause 6.2, as in REQ-NRM-MC-3. REQ-NRM-MC-6 In addition to the rules defined in O-RAN WG10 IM/DM TS [17] clause Identify augmentation 6.2.8, the following applies: of O1 YANG data All O-RAN augmentations of 3GPP YANG Data Models shall follow modules the rules mentioned in REQ-NRM-MC-5. Vendor specific augmentation to O-RAN YANG modules shall be made in separate vendor originated YANG Data Model files and, shall f ollow 3GPP TS 32.160 [1], clause 6.2.1.8.

# 5 Model

## 5.1 Imported and associated information entities

### 5.1.1 Imported information entities and local labels
Label reference Local label 3GPP TS 28.622 [3], IOC, Top Top 3GPP TS 28.625 [4], Archetype, StateManagementEntity StateManagementEntity 3GPP TS 28.622 [3], IOC, ManagedFunction ManagedFunction 3GPP TS 28.622 [3], IOC, EP_RP EP_RP 3GPP TS 28.658 [7], dataType, PLMNId PLMNId 3GPP TS 28.622 [3], dataType, TimeWindow TimeWindow 3GPP TS 28.541 [12], dataType, RRMPolicyMember RRMPolicyMember

### 5.1.2 Associated information entities and local labels
Label reference Local label 3GPP TS 28.622 [3], IOC, ManagedElement ManagedElement 3GPP TS 28.541 [12], IOC, GNBDUFunction GNBDUFunction 3GPP TS 28.541 [12], IOC, NRCellDU NRCellDU

## 5.2 Class diagrams

### 5.2.1 Relationships
This clause depicts the set of classes (e.g. IOCs) that encapsulates the information relevant for this MnS. This clause provides an overview of the relationships between relevant classes in UML. Subsequent clauses provide more detailed specification of various aspects of these classes.

### 5.2.2 Inheritance
This subclause depicts the inheritance relationships.

## 5.3 Class definitions

### 5.3.1 ManagedApplication

#### 5.3.1.1 Definition
The ManagedApplication IOC defines attribute(s) that are common to application IOCs. This IOC represents a deployed instance of software application that may be independently tested and separately deployed from the hosting entity.

#### 5.3.1.2 Attributes
The ManagedApplication IOC includes the inherited from Top IOC (defined in 3GPP TS 28.622 [3], clause 4.3.29), attributes operationalState, usageState, administrativeState imported from StateManagementEntity Archetype (defined in 3GPP TS 28.625 [4], clause 4.3.1) and the following attributes: Attribute name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable applicationVersion M T F F T applicationName M T F T T userLabel O T T F T operationalState M T F F T usageState M T F F T administrativeState M T T F T Attribute related to role hostDN M T F T T

#### 5.3.1.3 Attribute constraints
None

#### 5.3.1.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in clause 5.5 are valid for this class, without exceptions or additions.

#### 5.3.1.5 State diagram
None

### 5.3.2 NearRTRICFunction

#### 5.3.2.1 Definition
The NearRTRICFunction IOC represents the Management aspects of the aggregated functions making up the Near-RT RIC (defined in O-RAN Architecture Description [9], clause 5.3.2).

#### 5.3.2.2 Attributes
The NearRTRICFunction IOC includes the attributes below and those attributes inherited through ManagedFunction IOC (defined in 3GPP TS 28.622 [3]). Attribute Name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable pLMNIdentity M T T F T nearRTRICID M T T F T Attribute related to role applicationDNList M T F F T

#### 5.3.2.3 Attribute constraints
None

#### 5.3.2.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in clause 5.5 are valid for this class, without exceptions or additions.

#### 5.3.2.5 State diagram
None

### 5.3.3 EP_E2

#### 5.3.3.1 Definition
The EP_E2 IOC represents the management aspects of the E2 Termination (defined in O-RAN Near-RT RIC Architecture [6] clause 6.2.7.1).

#### 5.3.3.2 Attributes
The EP_E2 IOC includes the attributes below and those attributes inherited through EP_RP IOC (defined in 3GPP TS 28.622 [3]). Attribute Name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable tRICEventCreate O T T F T tRICEventDelete O T T F T tRICControl O T T F T tRICEventModify O T T F T tRICQuery O T T F T

#### 5.3.3.3 Attribute constraints
None

#### 5.3.3.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in clause 5.5 are valid for this class, without exceptions or additions.

#### 5.3.3.5 State diagram
None

### 5.3.4 EP_A1

#### 5.3.4.1 Definition
The EP_A1 IOC represents the management aspects of the A1 Termination (defined in O-RAN Near-RT RIC Architecture [6] clause 6.2.7.2).

#### 5.3.4.2 Attributes
The EP_A1 IOC includes the attributes inherited through EP_RP IOC (defined in 3GPP TS 28.622 [3]).

#### 5.3.4.3 Attribute constraints
None

#### 5.3.4.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in clause 5.5 are valid for this class, without exceptions or additions.

#### 5.3.4.5 State diagram
None

### 5.3.5 NESPolicy

#### 5.3.5.1 Definition
The NESPolicy IOC represents the policy for network energy saving (NES) for the NR Cell(s) managed by the O-DU. When the NES Policy is created or updated by receiving a NES policy file, the NESPolicy MOI shall be created by MnS producer (O-DU) when it successfully receives NES policy file. The attribute policyId represents the unique identifier of the policy, corresponding to the policy file. The NES policy is applicable for the energy saving in the downlink. An NES policy can be associated with none, one or more NR Cell(s) (i.e., NRCellDU) of the O-DU. When an NES policy is associated to none of NR Cell(s) (i.e., the DN of the NESPolicy MOI is not referenced in attribute configuredNesPolicyList of any NESPolicyRelation MOIs), the O-DU shall not consider the policy for evaluation. The NESPolicy MOI corresponding to NES policy related to TRx Control (RF Channel Reconfiguration) based energy saving contains attribute policyType with value TRX_CONTROL. The attributes antennaMask and sleepMode provide the values from the NES policy file for the TRx control based energy saving. The NESPolicy MOI corresponding to NES policy related to advanced sleep mode based energy saving contains attribute policyType with value ASM. The attribute sleepMode provides the value from the NES policy file for the advanced sleep mode based energy saving. The MnS consumer shall be able to configure the time window(s) when this NES policy is applicable, using the attribute applicableTimeWindows of corresponding NESPolicy MOI. Multiple time windows can be configured for the policy using the attribute applicableTimeWindows. If the applicableTimeWindows is not present or if the startTime and endTime of any element of the list attribute applicableTimeWindows are configured with the same values, then O-DU shall not use the time condition for the policy, i.e., the policy is applicable without time condition. Setting overlapping time windows in the same NESPolicy MOI may cause undefined behavior.

#### 5.3.5.2 Attributes
The NESPolicy IOC includes attributes inherited from Top IOC (defined in 3GPP TS 28.622 [3], clause 4.3.29) and the following attributes: Attribute name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable policyId M T F T F policyType M T F T F applicableTimeWindows O T T F T sleepMode O T F T F antennaMask O T F T F

#### 5.3.5.3 Attributes constraints
None

#### 5.3.5.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in clause 5.5 are valid for this class, without exceptions or additions.

#### 5.3.5.5 State diagram
None

### 5.3.6 NESPolicyRelation

#### 5.3.6.1 Definition
The NESPolicyRelation IOC represents the NES policies configured for the NR Cell. NESPolicyRelation MOI with attribute configuredNesPolicyList with an empty list is invalid.

#### 5.3.6.2 Attributes
The NESPolicyRelation IOC includes attributes inherited from Top IOC (defined in 3GPP TS 28.622 [3], clause 4.3.29) and the following attributes: Attribute name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable Attribute related to role configuredNesPolicyList M T T F T

#### 5.3.6.3 Attributes constraints
None

#### 5.3.6.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in clause 5.5 are valid for this class, without exceptions or additions.

#### 5.3.6.5 State diagram
None

### 5.3.7 RRMPolicyRBAlloc

#### 5.3.7.1 Definition
The RRMPolicyRBAlloc IOC provides the necessary attributes to set the resource segment defined as the combination of starting position of common resource block (CRB) allocation and number of physical resource blocks within the available frequency resource for each cell.

#### 5.3.7.2 Attributes
The RRMPolicyRBAlloc IOC includes attributes inherited from Top IOC (defined in 3GPP TS 28.622 [3], clause 4.3.29) and contains the following attributes: Attribute name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable direction M T T F T rRMPolicyMemberList M T T F T startCellRBAlloc M T T F T numberOfPRBs O T T F T

#### 5.3.7.3 Attribute constraints
None

#### 5.3.7.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in clause 5.5 are valid for this class, without exceptions or additions.

#### 5.3.7.5 State diagram
None

## 5.4 Attribute definitions

### 5.4.1 Attribute properties
The following table defines the properties of attributes that are specified in the present document. Attribute Name Documentation and Allowed Values Properties applicationVersion This attribute contains the application version numbers that type: String shall consist of at least 3 fields, following a multiplicity: 1 MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH pattern according to the isOrdered: N/A Semantic Versioning Specification [15]. isUnique: N/A defaultValue: None allowedValues: N/A isNullable: False applicationName This attribute contains the name of the application. type: String multiplicity: 0..1 allowedValues: N/A isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: None isNullable: True userLabel This attribute contains user defined label for the application type: String multiplicity: 0..1 allowedValues: N/A isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: None isNullable: True operationalState It indicates the operational state of the object instance. "It type: ENUM describes whether or not the resource is physically multiplicity: 1 installed and working." This attribute is READ-ONLY. isOrdered: N/A The meaning of these values is as defined in ITU-T isUnique: N/A Recommendation X.731 [8]. defaultValue: None isNullable: False allowedValues: “ENABLED”, “DISABLED” usageState It indicates the usage state of the object instance. "It type: ENUM describes whether or not the resource is actively in use at multiplicity: 1 a specific instant, and if so, whether or not it has spare isOrdered: N/A capacity for additional users at that instant." This attribute isUnique: N/A is READ-ONLY. defaultValue: None The meaning of these values is as defined in ITU-T isNullable: False Recommendation X.731 [8]. allowedValues: "IDLE", "ACTIVE", "BUSY" administrativeState It indicates the administrative state of the object instance. type: ENUM "It describes the permission to use or prohibition against multiplicity: 1 using the resource, imposed through the management isOrdered: N/A services." The meaning of these values is as defined in isUnique: N/A ITU-T Recommendation X.731 [8]. defaultValue: None isNullable: False allowedValues: "LOCKED", "SHUTTINGDOWN", "UNLOCKED". tRICEventCreate Near-RT RIC attribute defined in O-RAN.WG3.TS.E2AP type: Integer [5], clause 9.5 multiplicity: 0..1 Specifies the maximum time for the RIC Subscription isOrdered: N/A Request event creation procedure in the Near-RT RIC. isUnique: N/A defaultValue: None allowedValues: [0..65535] ms isNullable: True Attribute Name Documentation and Allowed Values Properties tRICEventDelete Near-RT RIC attribute defined in O-RAN.WG3.TS.E2AP type: Integer [5], clause 9.5 multiplicity: 0..1 Specifies the maximum time for the RIC Subscription isOrdered: N/A Request event deletion procedure in the Near-RT RIC. isUnique: N/A defaultValue: None allowedValues: [0..65535] ms isNullable: True tRICControl Near-RT RIC attribute defined in O-RAN.WG3.TS.E2AP type: Integer [5], clause 9.5 multiplicity: 0..1 Specifies the maximum time for the RIC Control Request isOrdered: N/A event request procedure in the Near-RT RIC. isUnique: N/A defaultValue: None allowedValues: [0..65535] ms isNullable: True tRICEventModify Near-RT RIC attribute defined in O-RAN.WG3.TS.E2AP type: Integer [5], Clause 9.5 multiplicity: 0..1 isOrdered: N/A Specifies the maximum time for the RIC Subscription isUnique: N/A Modification procedure in the Near-RT RIC. defaultValue: None isNullable: True allowedValues: [0..65535] ms tRICQuery Near-RT RIC attribute defined in O-RAN.WG3.TS.E2AP type: Integer [5], Clause 9.5 multiplicity: 0..1 isOrdered: N/A Specifies the maximum time for the RIC Query procedure isUnique: N/A in the Near-RT RIC. defaultValue: None isNullable: True allowedValues: [0..65535] ms nearRTRICID Defined in O-RAN.WG3.TS.E2AP [5], clause 9.2.4 type: Integer multiplicity: 1 allowedValues: N/A isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: None isNullable: False pLMNIdentity Defined in 3GPP TS 28.658 [7], clause 4.3.26 type: PLMNId multiplicity: 1 allowedValues: N/A isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: None isNullable: False policyId It defines the unique identifier of the policy, corresponding type: String to the policy file. multiplicity: 1 isOrdered: N/A allowedValues: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: None isNullable: False policyType It indicates the type of energy saving corresponding to type: ENUM NES policy. multiplicity: 1 isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A allowedValues: defaultValue: None "TRX_CONTROL": the policy is for TRx Control (RF isNullable: False Channel Reconfiguration) based energy saving. "ASM": the policy is for advanced sleep mode based energy saving. Attribute Name Documentation and Allowed Values Properties applicableTimeWindow It defines the list of time windows at which the NES policy type: TimeWindow s is applicable. multiplicity: 1..* isOrdered: False allowedValues: N/A isUnique: True defaultValue: None isNullable: False sleepMode It indicates the sleep mode (defined in O- type: Integer RAN.WG4.TS.CUS.0 specification [13], clause 7.5.3.52) multiplicity: 1 corresponding to NES policy. isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A Allowed values are the sleep modes supported by the O- defaultValue: None RU (defined in O-RAN.WG4.TS.CUS.0 specification [13], isNullable: False clause 16.1). allowedValues: 0, 1, 2, 3 antennaMask type: BitString It indicates or defines the antenna mask (defined in O- multiplicity: 0..1 RAN.WG4.TS.CUS.0 specification [13], clause 7.5.3.54) isOrdered: N/A corresponding to NES policy. isUnique: N/A defaultValue: None allowedValues: N/A isNullable: True configuredNesPolicyL It holds an ordered list of DNs of the NES policies that are type: DN ist configured for a given NRCellDU. The evaluation of the multiplicity: 1..* NES policy is performed by the O-DU in increasing order of isOrdered: True their precedence in the list. The order represents the policy isUnique: True priorities, i.e., the policy whose DN appears first has higher defaultValue: None priority than the policies that follow. isNullable: False allowedValues: DNs of the NESPolicy MOI(s) that are name contained in the parent GNBDUFunction. startCellRBAlloc Specifies the starting position of common resource block type: integer (CRB) allocation within the available frequency resource multiplicity: 1 for each cell. isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A This value is the offset in common resource blocks, defaultValue: 0 defined in 3GPP TS 38.211[14] clause 4.4.4.3, to common isNullable: False resource block 0 for the applied subcarrier spacing for a cell. allowedValues: 0 to N_grid_size - 1, where N_grid_size equals the number of common resource blocks for the BS channel bandwidth based on the subcarrier spacing applied to the cell. direction The direction of interest for a startCellRBAlloc. type: ENUM multiplicity: 1 allowedValues: isOrdered: N/A BIDIRECTION, UL, DL isUnique: N/A defaultValue: BIDIRECTION isNullable: False rRMPolicyMemberList It represents the list of RRMPolicyMember (s) that the type: RRMPolicyMember managed object is supporting, defined in 3GPP TS multiplicity: 1..* 28.541[12] clause 4.3.42. isOrdered: False

# A RRMPolicyMember <<dataType>> includes the PLMNId isUnique: True
<<dataType>> and S-NSSAI <<dataType>>. defaultValue: None isNullable: False allowedValues: N/A Attribute Name Documentation and Allowed Values Properties numberOfPRBs Number of physical resource blocks, defined in 3GPP TS type: Integer 38.211 [14] clause 4.4.4.4, for a RRMPolicyRBAlloc. multiplicity: 1 isOrdered: N/A allowedValues: isUnique: N/A to N_grid_size – startCellRBAlloc. See defaultValue: None startCellRBAlloc for definition of N_grid_size. isNullable: False This applies only to single numerology use case. hostDN This attribute contains the DN of the hosting entity (e.g., type: DN isOrdered: N/A allowedValues: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: None isNullable: False applicationDNList This attribute contains the DNs of the hosted applications type: DN (MOIs of the concrete IOCs inheriting from multiplicity: 0..* ManagedApplication). isOrdered: False isUnique: True allowedValues: N/A defaultValue: None isNullable: True

## 5.5 Common notifications

### 5.5.1 Alarm notifications
This clause presents a list of notifications, defined in 3GPP TS 28.111 [16] and referenced in O-RAN O1 Interface Specification [11], that an MnS consumer may receive. The notification header attribute objectClass/objectInstance, defined in 3GPP TS 28.111 [16], shall capture the DN of an instance of a class defined in the present document. Name S Notes notifyNewAlarm M notifyClearedAlarm M notifyAckStateChanged O notifyAlarmListRebuilt M notifyChangedAlarm O notifyChangedAlarmGeneral O

### 5.5.2 Configuration notifications
This clause presents a list of notifications, defined in 3GPP TS 28.532 [10] and referenced in O-RAN O1 Interface Specification [11], that an MnS consumer may receive. The notification header attribute objectClass/objectInstance, defined in 3GPP TS 28.532 [10], shall capture the DN of an instance of a class defined in the present document. Name S Notes notifyMOIChanges O notifyEvent O


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG10.TS.O1PMeas-R004-v04.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG10.TS.O1PMeas-R004-v04.00 Technical Specification O-RAN Work Group 10 (OAM for O-RAN) O-RAN O1 Performance Measurements Specification"
---


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG10.TS.OAM-Architecture-R004-v16.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG10.TS.OAM-Architecture-R004-v16.00 Technical Specification O-RAN Work Group 10 (OAM for O-RAN) O-RAN Operations and Maintenance Architecture"
---

## E.3 Void 85

## E.4 Void 85
Foreword This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by WG10 of the O-RAN ALLIANCE. The content of the present document is subject to continuing work within O-RAN and may change following formal O- RAN approval. Should the O-RAN ALLIANCE modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released by O-RAN with an identifying change of version date and an increase in version number as follows: version xx.yy.zz where: xx: the first digit-group is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e., technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc. (the initial approved document will have xx=01). Always 2 digits with leading zero if needed. yy: the second digit-group is incremented when editorial only changes have been incorporated in the document. Always 2 digits with leading zero if needed. zz: the third digit-group included only in working versions of the document indicating incremental changes during the editing process. External versions never include the third digit-group. Always 2 digits with leading zero if needed. Modal verbs terminology In the present document "shall", "shall not", "should", "should not", "may", "need not", "will", "will not", "can" and "cannot" are to be interpreted as described in clause 3.2 of the O-RAN Drafting Rules (Verbal forms for the expression of provisions). "must" and "must not" are NOT allowed in O-RAN deliverables except when used in direct citation.

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1] and the following apply: Service Planning: The activity of a Service Operator around certifying a solution configuration for deployment into their network. Service Provider: A network provider who is planning to deploy applications into their network. Solution Provider: An application developer who delivers applications to Service Providers. In addition to the terms listed here, the terms defined in 3GPP TS 28.533 [i.4] and OAD [i.10] also apply.

## 3.2 Symbols
Void

## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1] and the following apply: ALD Antenna Line Device ASM Advanced Sleep Mode CMT Container Management Technology CNA Cloud Native Application CNAD Cloud Native Application Developer CNF Cloud-native Network Function COTS Commercial Off-the-Shelf CP Cloud Provider DMS Deployment Management Service DS Data Store EMS Element Management System ESP Energy Saving Policy FTP File Transfer Protocol FTPeS Explicit SSL File Transfer Protocol FOCOM Federated O-Cloud Orchestration and Management LCM Lifecycle Management MANO Management and Orchestration MMP Meet-Me-Point NAT Network Address Translation NFO Network Function Orchestration NFV Network Function Virtualization PCP Port Control Protocol RTE Run Time Environment SDK Software Development Kit SDLC Software Development LifeCycle SFTP SSH File Transfer Protocol UPNP Universal Plug-N-Play VNF Virtualized Network Function VNFD Virtualized Network Function Descriptor In addition to the terms listed here, the terms defined in 3GPP TS 28.533 [i.4] and OAD [i.10] also apply.

# 4 O-RAN OAM Architecture Overview

## 4.1 Objectives
The O-RAN OAM Architecture identifies management services, managed functions and managed elements supported in O-RAN, including the interworking between service management and orchestration and other O-RAN components such as infrastructure management. Requirements are derived from end-to-end OAM use cases, using the initial provisioning of O-RAN service across VNFs and PNFs as the primary use case. The architecture identifies the interfaces between O-RAN Service Management and Orchestration (SMO) and Managed Elements for different models and provides example deployment options. It provides a description of Life Cycle Management for applications delivered from a Solution Provider to a Service Provider/Network Operator.

## 4.2 End-to-End OAM Use Cases (informative)

### 4.2.1 O-RAN Provisioning Use Case
Editor’s note: The content of this clause is no longer technically relevant and needs to be reviewed and revised.

#### 4.2.1.1 Basic Objective
In the O-RAN architecture, the radio side includes Near-RT RIC, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU, and O-RU Network Functions (NFs). The management side is comprised of the Service Management and Orchestration Framework (and thus the Non-RT RIC). In the NFV environment, O-RAN Network Functions can also be implemented in a virtualized form, and thus include an Infrastructure layer (e.g., COTS/White Box/Peripheral hardware and virtualization layer) based on an O-Cloud. The current use case focuses on O-RAN Network Function deployment rather than physical construction. According to the radio coverage requirements, operators may deploy the O-RAN NFs on dedicated physical resources and/or virtualized resources in a specific area. This use case assumes that the O-RAN NFs are deployed based on a Network Design using Virtualized Network Functions (VNFs) for centralized functions and Physical Network Functions (PNFs) for functions closer to the customer, so that the sequence calls for deployment of VNFs for the Near-RT RIC, O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP first followed by PNFs for the O-DU and O-RU.
> NOTE: RF functions are always realized as PNFs, but the O-DU can be realized as a PNF or VNF; this document
uses PNF as an example to illustrate the associated OAM flows. It is also assumed that secure network connectivity is already available between RAN components.

#### 4.2.1.2 Entities/Resources Involved
To support the O-RAN network provisioning, the Service Management and Orchestration Framework needs to support the following capabilities:
- O-RAN NF deployed in selected area
a) For non-virtualized parts, the Service Management and Orchestration Framework supports the deployment of PNFs on the target dedicated physical resources which satisfy the coverage requirements, with management through the O1 interface. b) For VNFs, the Service Management and Orchestration Framework has the capability to interact with the O- Cloud to perform NF life cycle management, e.g., instantiate the VNF on the target infrastructure through the O2 interface (e.g., indicate the selected geo-location for each VNF to be instantiated, where close to the PNFs). c) The Service Management and Orchestration Framework has the capability to consume the provisioning management service through the O1 interface to manage the configuration of the NF, details are described in O1-Interface [2].
- O-RAN network provisioning
a) Based on the deployed NFs, the Service Management and Orchestration Framework configures the IP addressing, etc. in the PNFs and VNFs to support connectivity between them (this operation may also be performed during the instantiation steps). b) Operators can operate and maintain the network dynamically through the O1 and/or O2 interface by means of: i. Reconfiguration of the NFs ii. System update (usually refers to software management, without adding NFs) and system upgrade (the NFs can be added/removed/modified) According to the above, the Service Management and Orchestration Framework together with the O-Cloud implements the O-RAN NF deployment and provisioning, creating an O-RAN network to provide service to consumers.

#### 4.2.1.3 Solutions
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal O-RAN provisioning [1]. Service Management and Orchestration Framework: NFO, OAM Functions, Non-RT RIC Actors and Roles [2]. O-Cloud: DMS [3]. PNF [4]. VNF Assumptions [1]. The Service Management and Orchestration Framework and O- Cloud are connected and interact. [2]. O-Cloud supports platform and resource management. Pre-conditions [3]. The PNF was constructed/installed but not activated. [4]. The VNF Software Package has been uploaded to the O-Cloud. [5]. Secure network connectivity is already available between RAN components. The network operator/manager decides to deploy an O-RAN network in Begins when specific geo-location Step 1 (M) The service designer deploys Service Model and Artifacts to SMO Step 2 (M) SMO on boarding the VNF Descriptors for the service to the O-Cloud Step 3 (M) The radio planner orders RAN Service Deployment Step 4 (M) The SMO initiates the O-RAN Service instantiation The SMO interacts with O-Cloud to instantiate Near-RT RIC based on Step 5 (M) Near-RT RIC VNFD Step 6 (M) The O-Cloud creates VNF of Near-RT RIC The O-Cloud notifies the SMO the Near-RT RIC has been instantiated Step 7 (M) and SMO updates its inventory Step 8 (M) The SMO configures the Near-RT RIC Step 9 (M) The O-Cloud creates VNF of O-CU-CP The O-Cloud notifies the SMO the O-CU-CP has been instantiated and Step 10 (M) SMO updates its inventory Step 11 (M) The SMO prepares configuration, e.g., Near-RT RIC related Step 12 (M) The SMO configures the O-CU-CP The SMO interacts with the O-Cloud to instantiate O-CU-UP. For Step 13 (M) multiple O-CU-UP VNF, steps 13 to 17 are repeated Step 14 (M) The O-Cloud creates VNF of O-CU-UP Step 15 (M) The O-Cloud notifies the SMO the O-CU-UP has been instantiated and SMO updates its inventory Step 16 (M) The SMO prepares configuration, e.g., Near-RT RIC, O-CU-CP related Step 17 (M) The SMO configures the O-CU-UP Step 18 (O) The SMO deploys xApp to the Near-RT RIC Step 19 (O) After the above steps the Near-RT RIC may subscribe to the O-CU-CP via the E2 interface Step 20 (O) After the above steps the Near-RT RIC may subscribe to the O-CU-UP via the E2 interface Step 21 (M) SMO adds O-DU into inventory, e.g., with an O-DU.ID for each O-DU. For multiple O-DU this step is repeated Step 22 (M) SMO adds O-RU into inventory in the O-DU record, e.g., with an O- RU.ID for each O-RU. For multiple O-RU this step is repeated Step 23 (M) The field technician powers on the O-DU Step 24 (M) The O-DU sends Registration to the SMO Note: the controller address is determined Step 25 (M) The SMO registers the O-DU as on-line Step 26 (M) The SMO prepares O-DU configuration, e.g., related information from Near-RT RIC and O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP Step 27 (M) The SMO configures the O-DU. Configuration may include information about hybrid / hierarchical deployment the O-RU shall work in (if no default deployment is used), together with necessary credentials needed for M-Plane session between O-DU and O-RU. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Step 28 (O) The SMO may deploy xApp to Near-RT RIC Step 29 (O) After the above steps the Near-RT RIC may interact with O-DU via E2 interface Step 30 (M) The field technician powers on the O-RU Hierarchical deployment Step 31 (M) Open Fronthaul M-Plane connection establishment between the O-RU and the O-DU. Step 32 (M) The O-DU retrieves O-RU information using Open Fronthaul interface. Step 33 (M) The O-DU updates its O-RU Model with information retrieved in the previous step and sends Config Change Notification to the SMO, indicating O-RU is online. Step 34 (M) The SMO retrieves O-RU-related information from O-RU Model maintained by O-DU. Step 35 (M) The SMO registers the O-RU as online. Step 36 (M) The SMO provides O-DU with O-DU-related and O-RU-related parts of desired configuration. Step 37 (M) The O-DU processes configuration information received from the SMO and configures the O-RU respectively. Step 38 (M) The O-DU updates its O-RU Model and sends Config Change Notification to the SMO. Step 39 (M) The SMO retrieves O-RU-related information from O-RU Model using O1 interface. Hybrid deployment Step 40 (M) Open Fronthaul M-Plane connection establishment between the O-RU and the SMO. Step 41 (M) The SMO retrieves O-RU information using Open Fronthaul interface. Step 42 (M) The SMO registers the O-RU as online. Step 43 (M) The SMO prepares O-RU configuration, e.g., including co-related O-DU. Step 44 (M) The SMO configures the O-RU using Open Fronthaul Interface. Step 45 (M) Open Fronthaul M-Plane connection establishment between the O-RU and the O-DU (NOTE). Step 46 (M) The O-DU retrieves O-RU information using Open Fronthaul interface. Step 47 (M) The O-DU updates its O-RU Model with information retrieved in previous step, and sends Config Change Notification to the SMO indicating O-RU is online, Step 48 (M) The SMO retrieves O-RU information from O-DU using O1 interface. Step 49 (O) The SMO correlates new information with existing one and optionally registers the O-RU as online (NOTE). Step 50 (O) The SMO provides O-DU with O-DU-related and O-RU-related parts of desired configuration. Step 51 (O) The O-DU processes configuration information received from the SMO and configures the O-RU respectively. Step 52 (O) The O-DU updates its O-RU Model and sends Config Change Notification to the SMO indicating configuration changes successfully applied to O-RU. Step 53 (M) The SMO retrieves O-RU-related information from O-RU Model using O1 interface. Step 54 (O) The O-DU detects the trigger to modify O-RU configuration (e.g., carrier activation via F1 interface or FM recovery action). Step 55 (O) The O-DU maps required changes to existing O-RU configuration and applies configuration update to the O-RU. Step 56 (O) The O-DU updates its O-RU Model and sends Config Change Notification to the SMO. Step 57 (M) The SMO retrieves O-RU-related information from O-RU Model using O1 interface. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use All O-RAN network functions needed for service have been registered Ends when and configured; SMO holds current inventory of all O-RAN network functions Exceptions Not applicable The O-RAN network has been established and is ready to provide Post Conditions service to customers. SMO knows the capabilities of available O-RUs. REQ-M&O-FUN1, REQ-M&O-FUN2, REQ-M&O-FUN3, REQ-M&O- Traceability FUN4, REQ-M&O-FUN5, REQ-M&O-FUN6, REQ-M&O-FUN9, REQ- M&O-FUN10
> NOTE: In case O-RU knows how to connect to O-DU earlier (e.g., O-RU received a set of IP leases that covered both
SMO and O-DU connectivity), this step may occur in parallel with step 39. Potential race conditions and dependencies caused by O-RU attempting to simultaneously connect to SMO and O-DU are not covered in this document.

### 4.2.2 O-RAN Measurement Data Collection Use Case

#### 4.2.2.1 Basic Objective
In this use case, the Non-RT RIC as the intelligent management center located in Service Management and Orchestration Framework determines that measurement data is needed and interacts with the SMO OAM Functions to collect measurement data from network for AI/ML training/inference/analyzing, and then generate optimization operations in order to improve the end-to-end user service experience and the network performance. According to the Service Management and Orchestration Framework, to fulfil the Non-RT RIC requested data collection, the following capability should be supported by the SMO (framework): i The SMO should support the MnS component Type A (defined in 3GPP TS 28.533 [i.4]) generation and the corresponding operation performing (defined in 3GPP TS 28.532 [i.3] and 3GPP TS 28.550 [i.5]), according to the measurement data collection request from the Non-RT RIC ii The SMO (framework) should support the MnS component type C (defined in 3GPP TS 28.533 [i.4]) consumption such as the measurement data requested by the Non-RT RIC The current use case focuses on the Non-RT RIC requested measurement data collection and consumption, the SMO should generate the PM Job and perform the PM Job control operations accordingly, and the SMO (framework) should support the measurement data consumption by the Non-RT RIC.
> NOTE 1: In the O-RAN SMO framework, in order to avoid PM Job conflict, it is suggested that the SMO take
responsibility for generating the PM Job and performing the PM Job control related operations.
> NOTE 2: In this use case, the MnS producer of an O-RAN NF decides if the PM Job is acceptable or not, in other
words, it is ultimately this MnS producer which decides whether the measurement data collection task can be established or not.

#### 4.2.2.2 Entities/Resources Involved
Roles in the PM Job Control related operations: a) The Non-RT RIC: PM Job initiator b) The SMO (framework): measurement service component type A consumer c) The MnF of the O-RAN NF: measurement service component type A producer To fulfill the Non-RT RIC requested measurement data collection by the SMO on the O1/O2 interface, the information related to the collection task shall comply with O1-Interface [2], clause 6.3. The measurement data collection information provided by the Non-RT RIC should be converted into a PM Job, and any management operations to the data collection task requested by the Non-RT RIC should be converted into the O1/O2 interface supported PM Job control related management service operations by the SMO. Roles in the NotifyFileReady subscribing: a) SMO: management service component type A consumer (consumerReference, as defined in 3GPP TS 28.532 b) MnF of the O-RAN NF: producer of notifications Roles in the measurement data consumption: a) SMO: management service component type C consumer b) MnF of the NFs: producer of streaming data c) File Server: storage the measurement data file

#### 4.2.2.3 Solutions

##### 4.2.2.3.1 Measurement Data Collection Creation
SMO on the O1/O2 interface. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal O-RAN Measurement Data Collection [1]. Service Management and Orchestration Framework [2]. Non-RT RIC Actors and Roles [3]. O-Cloud [4]. MnF(s) of the O-RAN NFs [5]. O-RAN NFs, e.g., O-CU, O-DU, O-RU, Near-RT RIC. Assumptions None [1]. The SMO and the Non-RT RIC are connected and interact. [2]. O-RAN components are in running status. Pre-conditions [3]. Secure network connectivity is already available between RAN components. The Non-RT RIC determines that it needs measurement data from Begins when the MnF of O-RAN NF (e.g., O-CU-CP) and corresponding O-Cloud infrastructure resources. The Non-RT RIC provides the information of the measurement data Step 1 (M) to the SMO Step 2 (M) The SMO generates a PM Job as the Non-RT RIC required SMO performs PM Job control management to the MnF via the O1 Step 3.1 (M) interface, e.g., Operation createMeasurementJob defined in 3GPP TS 28.550 [i.5] The SMO performs PM Job control management to the O-Cloud over Step 3.2 (M) the O2 interface for the infrastructure resources related to the O-CU- CP instance. The MnF responds to the SMO with the PM Job creation result. The Step 4.1 (M) PM Job ID should be contained. The O-Cloud responds to the SMO with the PM Job creation result Step 4.2 (M) with the PM Job ID. The SMO subscribes to PM Notifications to the MnF instance via the Step 5.1 (M) O1 interface. consumerReference defined in 3GPP TS 28.532 [i.3], clause 11.6.1.3 may be the SMO address. The SMO subscribes to O-RAN NF related infrastructure resource Step 5.2 (M) instance PM data to the O-Cloud over the O2 interface Step 6.1 (M) The MnF provides the result of this operation to the SMO The O-Cloud provides the SMO with the result of the subscription to Step 6.2 (M) the O-CU-CP infrastructure resource instance The SMO provides the result of the measurement data collection Step 7 (M) establishment to the Non-RT RIC Ends when Non-RT RIC has measurement data Exceptions None The Non-RT RIC initiated measurement data collection has been fulfilled by the SMO; the measured O-RAN MnFs generate measured Post Conditions data as the PM Job required. The subscription to the File Ready notification has been created successfully Traceability REQ-M&O-FUN7

##### 4.2.2.3.2 Measurement Data File Consumption
With the performance data file reporting method:
- The measurement data file may be stored in a file server, and the path should be contained in the NotifyFileReady.
- Once the measurement data file has been prepared, the MnF of the O-CU-CP instance shall report the notification
NotifyFileReady to the SMO. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal O-RAN Measurement Data Collection [1]. Service Management and Orchestration Framework [2]. Non-RT RIC Actors and Roles [3]. O-Cloud [4]. MnF(s) of the O-RAN NFs [5]. O-RAN NFs, e.g., O-CU, O-DU, O-RU, Near-RT RIC. Assumptions None [1]. The SMO and the Non-RT RIC are connected and interact. [2]. O-RAN components are in running status. Pre-conditions [3]. Secure network connectivity is already available between RAN components. The SMO shall perform the Operation Subscribe to provide the consumer information to the measurement data producer in the MnF Begins when of the NF. The producer in the MnF of the NF shall report the NotifyFileReady once the measurement data file has been prepared The MnF of the O-CU-CP sends the notification NotifyFileReady to Step 1.1 (M) the SMO, and it is consumed by the SMO The O-Cloud reports the infrastructure resource measured data file to Step 1.2 (M) the SMO The SMO retrieves the data file from the FileServer, and the collected Step 2 (M) data is eventually consumed by the Non-RT RIC Ends when SMO has collected data Exceptions None The SMO has received the notification of NotifyFileReady Post Conditions successfully, the data file is consumed by the Non-RT RIC Traceability REQ-M&O-FUN7

##### 4.2.2.3.3 Measurement Streaming Data Consumption
With the streaming reporting method:
- The consumer related information was taken to the producer in the operation of performance data collection
creation.
- The performance data streaming service producer shall establish streaming connection(s) to the consumer, in this
use case, the MnF of the O-CU-CP acts as the performance data streaming service producer and the SMO as the consumer.
- The MnF of the O-CU-CP shall send measured data on the established connection(s).
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal O-RAN Measurement Data Collection [1]. Service Management and Orchestration Framework [2]. Non-RT RIC Actors and Roles [3]. O-Cloud [4]. MnF(s) of the O-RAN NFs [5]. O-RAN NFs, e.g., O-CU, O-DU, O-RU, Near-RT RIC. Assumptions None [1]. The SMO and the Non-RT RIC are connected and interact. [2]. O-RAN components are in running status. Pre-conditions [3]. Secure network connectivity is already available between RAN components. The MnF of the O-CU-CP starts streaming connection(s) Begins when establishment to the SMO, and reports the measured data as the PM Job required The MnF of the O-CU-CP interworks with the SMO to establish Step 1 (M) streaming connection(s). the connection(s) should not be released until the PM Job is stopped The MnF of the O-CU-CP reports the measured data to the SMO as Step 2.1 (M) the PM Job required via the streaming connection(s) The O-Cloud reports the infrastructure resource measured data to the Step 2.2 (O) SMO Ends when SMO receives measured data Exceptions None The streaming connection(s) has been established between the MnF Post Conditions of the O-CU-CP and the SMO successfully. The SMO consumed the measured data successfully Traceability REQ-M&O-FUN7

### 4.2.3 O-RAN Configuration

#### 4.2.3.1 Basic Objective
The objective of the use case is to provide the ability for the SMO to configure an O-RAN NF and to receive Configuration Management (CM) notifications from the MnF of the O-RAN NF. The Configure O-RAN NF Use Case in this clause shows how O-RAN uses NETCONF as specified in O1-Interface [2] to configure O-RAN NFs.

#### 4.2.3.2 Entities/Resources Involved
Roles in the Provisioning Use Case: a) SMO is the Provisioning MnS Consumer b) MnF of the O-RAN NF is the Provisioning MnS Producer

#### 4.2.3.3 Configure O-RAN NF Use Case
The Configure O-RAN NF Use Case illustrates the sequence of NETCONF commands and Provisioning MnS operations, as specified in O1-Interface [2], to configure a NF. Before issuing any NETCONF commands, the NETCONF session shall be established. Before changing the configuration of an NF, the appropriate target data store in the associated MnF should be locked to prevent other NETCONF clients, non-NETCONF clients, and human users from interfering with the configuration changes. Note that locking the data store is optional and is at the discretion of the SMO/operator. Configuration changes are made using the Create Managed Object Instance operation, Delete Managed Object Instance operation or Modify Managed Object Instance Attributes operation as specified in O1-Interface [2]. If desired, SMO may first read the current NF configuration using the Read Managed Object Instance Attributes operation as specified in O1-Interface [2], before modifying the configuration, in order to ensure that the SMO is synchronized with the current NF configuration. Note that reading the current configuration is optional and is at the discretion of the SMO/operator. If the changes are made in a candidate data store, SMO shall commit the changes to the running data store to make them effective. If the SMO wishes to receive CM notifications, SMO shall subscribe to CM notifications using the Subscription Control operation, as specified in O1-Interface [2]. Multiple provisioning operations can be executed in sequence, one at a time, under the same lock session. When the SMO has finished sending all the commands that modify the configuration of the data store, the SMO should unlock the target data store so that other clients can make changes. Note that unlocking the data store is optional and is at the discretion of the SMO/operator. Finally, if the SMO has no more provisioning operations to perform at this time, SMO can terminate the NETCONF session. Note that terminating the NETCONF session is optional and is at the discretion of the SMO/operator. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal Configure NF [1]. Service Management and Orchestration Framework Actors and Roles [2]. MnF of the O-RAN NF [3]. O-RAN NF Assumptions None [1]. Operator has prepared the NF configuration and provided it to the SMO. [2]. SMO is in an operational state. Pre-conditions [3]. NF is in an operational state. [4]. SMO is managing the NF via its MnF. [5]. (Optional) SMO has subscribed to CM Notifications, if desired. Begins when SMO decides to configure the NF. If there is no NETCONF session established, SMO uses the O1-Interface [2], Step 1 (O) NETCONF Session Establishment operation to establish a clause 6.1.81 NETCONF session to the MnF of an NF. (Optional) If the target DS is not locked, SMO uses the NETCONF Lock Data Store operation to lock a target data store (DS) on a MnF O1-Interface [2], Step 2 (O) of the NF. Note that locking the data store is optional and is at the clause 6.1.10 discretion of the SMO/operator. (Optional) If desired, SMO reads the current NF configuration using the Read Managed Object Instance Attributes operation to ensure O1-Interface [2], Step 3 (O) that the SMO is synchronized with the current NF configuration clause 6.1.5 before modifying it. Note that reading the current configuration is optional and is at the discretion of the SMO/operator. SMO configures the MnF data store. Configuration changes are made using the Create Managed Object Instance operation, Delete O1-Interface [2], Step 4 (M) Managed Object Instance operation or Modify Managed Object clauses 6.1.2, Instance Attributes operation. Multiple provisioning operations can be 6.1.3, 6.1.4 sent in sequence, one at a time, under the same lock session. If configuration changes were made in the candidate data store, SMO O1-Interface [2], Step 5 (O) uses the NETCONF Commit operation to commit the changes to the clause 6.1.12 running data store and make them effective. If SMO has subscribed to CM Notifications, The MnF of the NF sends the appropriate CM notification, using the Notify Managed Object Instance Creation operation, Notify Managed Object Instance O1-Interface [2], Step 6 (O) Deletion operation, Notify Managed Object Instance Attribute Value clauses 6.1.6 Changes operation, or Notify Managed Object Instance Changes operation. (Optional) If SMO has successfully completed configuration changes, and if the data store is locked, SMO uses the NETCONF Unlock Data O1-Interface [2], Step 7 (O) Store operation to unlock a target data store (DS) on the MnF of the clause 6.1.11 NF. Note that unlocking the data store is optional and is at the discretion of the SMO/operator. If SMO is finished sending NETCONF commands, SMO uses the NETCONF Session Termination operation to terminate a NETCONF O1-Interface [2], Step 8 (O) session on the MnF of the NF. Note that terminating the NETCONF clause 6.1.9 session is optional and is at the discretion of the SMO/operator. Ends when Step 4 or later optional steps complete Exceptions See RFC 6241 [i.12] Post Conditions NF configuration has been updated in the running DS. O1-Interface [2] REQ-GNC-FUN-1, REQ-GNC-FUN-2, REQ-GNC- O1-Interface [2], Traceability FUN-3, REQ-GNC-FUN-4, REQ-GNC-FUN-5, REQ-GNC-FUN-6, clause 6.1.1 REQ-GNC-FUN-7, REQ-GNC-FUN-8, REQ-GNC-FUN-9

### 4.2.4 Use Cases for O-RU Hierarchical Management Architecture Model
Editor’s note: The use cases in this clause have not yet been fully aligned with the format and terminology of the rest of this specification.

#### 4.2.4.1 O-RU Software Management through O-DU

##### 4.2.4.1.1 O-RU Software Inventory through O-DU
Editor’s note: The content of this clause has not yet been aligned with O1-Interface [2]. 4.2.4.1.1.1 Description The SMO retrieves the software inventory information of an O-RU. 4.2.4.1.1.2 Procedures Precondition:
- O-DU has retrieved the software inventory information of connected O-RUs at startup.
1. SMO establishes NETCONF session with O-DU. 2. O-DU receives NETCONF <rpc><get><filter> from SMO where software aggregated model is indicated to retrieve information of software slot of O-RU. 3. O-DU returns requested data in NETCONF <rpc-reply> response. 4. SMO terminates NETCONF session with O-DU.

##### 4.2.4.1.2 O-RU Software Download and Install through O-DU
4.2.4.1.2.1 Description The SMO triggers the software download to a target O-RU through the managing O-DU as described in O1-Interface [2], clause 6.8.3. After software download, O-DU triggers software install on the O-RU as described in OFH M-Plane [1], clause 8.6. 4.2.4.1.2.2 Procedures Editor’s note: The content of this clause has not yet been aligned with O1-Interface [2]. 1. SMO establishes NETCONF session with O-DU. 2. SMO sends NETCONF <rpc><software-download><remote-file-path><softwarePackage> with ru-instance-id to trigger a download of the software and to identify the target O-RU. a. O-DU validates the request. 3. O-DU returns NETCONF <rpc-reply><software-download-status>. 4. SMO terminates NETCONF session with O-DU. Alternative 1: O-RU directly downloads the software package from software server. 5. O-DU sends <rpc><software-download> toward O-RU with remote-file-path. 6. O-RU returns <rpc-reply><software-download>. 7. O-RU downloads the software package. Alternative 2: O-RU indirectly downloads the software package from software server. 8. O-DU downloads software package of O-RU from software server and temporarily stores in the storage on itself.
> NOTE: storing SW package in O-DU may be removed after step 14.
b. O-DU decides whether download is needed or not by comparing manifest file and information of software slot. 9. O-DU sends <rpc><software-download> toward O-RU with remote-file-path. 10. O-RU returns <rpc-reply><software-download>. 11. O-RU downloads the software package. 12. O-RU sends <notification><download-event> to notify the result of download process. 13. O-DU sends <rpc><software-install> to perform the software install for O-RU. O-DU selects an install slot based on O1-Interface [2]. 14. O-RU returns <rpc-reply><software-install>. 15. O-RU sends <notification><install-event> to notify the result of install process. 16. When download operation is completed, O-DU sends download-event NETCONF downloadFile notification to SMO with the final status of the download (success or the reason for failure).

##### 4.2.4.1.3 O-RU Software Activation through O-DU
Editor’s note: The content of this clause has not yet been aligned with O1-Interface [2]. 4.2.4.1.3.1 Description O-DU receives a software activation trigger from the SMO for an O-RU, and O-DU executes the software activation mechanism on that O-RU. 4.2.4.1.3.2 Procedures 1. SMO establishes NETCONF session with O-DU. 2. SMO sends NETCONF <rpc><software-activate><softwarePackage> with ru-instance-id to trigger an activation of the software slot on O-RU. a. O-DU validates the request. 3. O-DU returns status to the SMO in the NETCONF <rpc-reply> response. 4. SMO terminates NETCONF session with O-DU. 5. O-DU sends <rpc><software-activation> to activate the software slot on O-RU. The most recently used slot to install is selected. 6. O-RU returns status into <rpc-reply>. 7. O-DU receives <notification><activation-event>. 8. O-DU sends <rpc><reset> toward O-RU to apply the newly installed and activated software. 9. O-RU returns <rpc-reply>. a. O-RU starts reset process. 10. When O-DU retrieves software inventory information of all reset O-RU in the startup, O-DU sends a softwareActivate notification to SMO with the final status of the software activate and O-RU reset results.

#### 4.2.4.2 O-RU Performance Assurance Management through O-DU
Editor’s note: The content of this clause has not yet been aligned with O1-Interface [2].

##### 4.2.4.2.1 O-RU Performance Data File Reporting through O-DU
The measured result file created by O-RU will be periodically uploaded to O-DU’s internal storage aligned with the OFH M-Plane [1], clause 10.3. O-DU will handle the file as described in O1-Interface [2], clause 6.3.1. Alternatively, the measured result file created by O-RU will be forwarded to the FTP server configured by O-DU. In this case, the Performance Assurance MnS Consumer shall provide the remote-SFTP-upload-path and its credentials to O-RU, so that it can upload the PM data file directly.

##### 4.2.4.2.2 O-RU Performance Assurance Control through O-DU
The performance measurements to be collected in O-RU are controlled by SMO via O-DU as described in O1-Interface [2], clause 6.3.3.

#### 4.2.4.3 O-RU Alarm Management through O-DU
Editor’s note: The content of this clause has not yet been aligned with O1-Interface [2].

##### 4.2.4.3.1 Description
In the hierarchical management model, O-DU is responsible for managing AlarmRecords in the AlarmList, including both O-DU alarms and O-RU alarms. Common O-RU Alarms are specified in OFH M-Plane [1], Annex A. O-DU receives a NETCONF based alarm notification from the O-RU. If O-DU is able to expose an O-RU Alarm as an alarm record through the O1 interface, it is exposed as an O1 Alarm record. In this case, O-DU converts the NETCONF based alarm notification to an O1 Alarm notification, updates AlarmRecords and sends the O1 Alarm notification to SMO.

##### 4.2.4.3.2 Procedures

#### 4.2.4.4 O-RU Provisioning Management through O-DU

##### 4.2.4.4.1 O-RU Configuration through O-DU
Configuration steps for the hierarchical management model are as follows: 1. SMO configures O-DU as described in O1-Interface [2], clause 6.1. 2. O-DU configures O-RU as described in the OFH M-Plane [1].

##### 4.2.4.4.2 Cell Configuration and Activation in Hierarchical Management Architecture Model
Editor’s note: The content of this clause has not yet been aligned with O1-Interface [2]. 4.2.4.4.2.1 Description After cell configuration on the O-DU, followed by carrier configuration on the O-RU, SMO may activate cells. 4.2.4.4.2.2 Procedures Editor’s note: The content of this clause needs to be reviewed and potentially revised to ensure that the F1 message content is technically valid.

##### 4.2.4.4.3 Forwarding Configuration Change Notifications from O-RU through O-DU
Editor’s note: The content of this clause has not yet been aligned with O1-Interface [2]. Editor’s note: The content of this clause currently has a dependency to the O-RU aggregated model and, due to this, needs to be reviewed and potentially revised. 4.2.4.4.3.1 Description The O-DU is responsible for presenting O-RU configuration to SMO. The SMO is responsible for subscribing to any parameters of interest using the subscription mechanism as described in O1-Interface [2], clause 6.1.7. Once the SMO has subscribed, the SMO will receive a notification for each value change of the parameter(s) from the O-DU. 4.2.4.4.3.2 Procedures

### 4.2.5 Network Energy Saving Use Cases

#### 4.2.5.1 RF Channel Reconfiguration

##### 4.2.5.1.1 TRX Control
4.2.5.1.1.1 Basic Objective The objective of this use case is to illustrate an operator's use of TRX Control-based energy savings via corresponding policy/configuration by the SMO over the O1 interface. 4.2.5.1.1.2 Entities/Resources Involved Roles in the TRX Control use case: a) SMO playing the role of Provisioning MnS Consumer b) O-DU playing the role of Provisioning MnS Producer c) O-RU 4.2.5.1.1.3 Description The use case illustrates the interactions between the involved entities in the context of TRX Control-based energy savings for the O-RU. based energy saving in O-RU. Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification <<Uses>> Related use Goal Provide TRX Control-based energy savings policy/configuration to the O-DU. Actors and Roles [1]. Service Management and Orchestration Framework (SMO) as the Provisioning MnS Consumer [2]. O-DU as the Provisioning MnS Producer [3]. O-RU Assumptions None Pre-conditions [1]. Connection is successfully established between MnS Producer of O- DU and MnS Consumer via O1 interface. [2]. Connection is successfully established between O-DU and O-RU via Open Fronthaul M-Plane. [3]. In hierarchical deployment, O-DU is aware of the TRX Control-related O-RU capabilities. [4]. MnS Consumer has subscribed to CM Notifications. Begins when SMO decides to provide the policy to O-DU for the TRX Control-based energy savings. Step 0 MnS Consumer retrieves TRX Control-related capabilities from MnS a. clause 4.2.3.3 Producer as below: b. clause a. MnS Consumer retrieves TRX Control-related capabilities from MnS 4.2.4.4.1 Producer of O-DU via O1 interface. c. OFH M-Plane b. Hierarchical architecture: MnS Consumer retrieves TRX Control- [1], clause related capabilities of the O-RU from the MnS Producer of O-DU via O1 20.3.2.2 interface. c. Hybrid architecture: MnS Consumer retrieves TRX Control-related capabilities from O-RU via Open Fronthaul M-Plane. Step 1 (M) MnS Consumer provides TRX Control-based energy saving-related clause 4.2.3.3 policy/configuration details to the MnS Producer. Step 2 (M) The O-DU examines the condition(s) provided in configuration/policy related to TRX Control. Step 3.1 (M) O-DU monitors relevant data and watches for the thresholds configured/provided in the policy of Step 1 to be satisfied. Step 3.2 (M) Once conditions are satisfied, the O-DU communicates appropriate antenna OFH CUS-Plane mask values and sleep mode to the O-RU using Open Fronthaul C-Plane [i.14], clauses 16.1, message. (NOTE) 16.2 Step 3.3 (M) The O-RU processes the Open Fronthaul C-Plane message and activates corresponding TRX Control configuration. Step 3.4 (O) O-RU sends the ACK/NACK message to O-DU via Open Fronthaul C-Plane. OFH CUS-Plane Step 4.1 (O) MnS Consumer needs to be made aware of execution of this step via notification. Step 4.2 (O) MnS Consumer analyses the policy status. Step 5.1 (O) MnS Consumer needs to be made aware of execution of this step via clause 4.2.2.3.2 counter. Step 5.2 (O) MnS Consumer analyses the PM data. Step 6 (O) MnS Consumer removes some of the policies. clause 4.2.3.3 Step 7 (O) MnS Consumer needs to be made aware of the policy status via notification. clause 4.2.3.3 Ends when MnS Consumer removes all TRX Control-based energy saving related policy/configuration details from the MnS Producer. Exceptions None Post Conditions MnS Consumer is informed about the result of TRX Control based energy saving related actions. Traceability Editor’s note: Requirements to be added later.
> NOTE: See OFH M-Plane [1], clause 20.3.2.5 for more details on the interaction between TRX Control and Advanced
Sleep Mode.

#### 4.2.5.2 Advanced Sleep Mode

##### 4.2.5.2.1 Basic Objective
The objective of this use case is to illustrate an operator's use of Advanced Sleep Mode-based energy savings via corresponding policy/configuration by the SMO over O1 interface.

##### 4.2.5.2.2 Entities/Resources Involved
Roles in the Advanced Sleep Mode use case: a) SMO playing the role of Provisioning MnS Consumer b) O-DU playing the role of Provisioning MnS Producer c) O-RU

##### 4.2.5.2.3 Description
The use case illustrates interactions between the involved entities in the context of Advanced Sleep Mode-based energy savings for the O-RU. Mode-based energy saving in O-RU. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Provide Advanced Sleep Mode-based energy savings policy/configuration Goal to the O-DU. [1]. Service Management and Orchestration Framework (SMO) as the Provisioning MnS Consumer Actors and Roles [2]. O-DU as the Provisioning MnS Producer [3]. O-RU Assumptions None [1]. Connection is successfully established between MnS Producer of O- DU and MnS Consumer via O1 interface. [2]. Connection is successfully established between O-DU and O-RU via Pre-conditions Open Fronthaul M-Plane. [3]. In hierarchical deployment, O-DU is aware of the Advanced Sleep Mode-related O-RU capabilities. [4]. MnS Consumer has subscribed to CM Notifications. SMO decides to provide the policy to O-DU for the Advanced Sleep Mode- Begins when based energy savings. MnS Consumer retrieves Advanced Sleep Mode-related capabilities from MnS Producer as below: a. MnS Consumer retrieves Advanced Sleep Mode-related capabilities a. clause 4.2.3.3 from MnS Producer of O-DU via O1 interface. b. clause 4.2.4.4.1 Step 0 b. Hierarchical architecture: MnS Consumer retrieves Advanced Sleep c. OFH M-Plane Mode-related capabilities of the O-RU from the MnS Producer of O- [1], clause DU via O1 interface. 20.4.1 c. Hybrid architecture: MnS Consumer retrieves Advanced Sleep Mode-related capabilities from O-RU via Open Fronthaul M-Plane. MnS Consumer provides Advanced Sleep Mode-based energy saving Step 1 (M) clause 4.2.3.3 related policy/configuration details to the MnS Producer. The O-DU examines the condition(s) provided in configuration/policy Step 2 (M) related to Advanced Sleep Mode. O-DU monitors relevant data and watches for the thresholds Step 3.1 (M) configured/provided in the policy of Step 1 to be satisfied. Once conditions are satisfied, the O-DU activates or deactivates the OFH CUS-Plane appropriate Advanced Sleep Mode in O-RU using Open Fronthaul C-Plane Step 3.2 (O) message. For Advanced Sleep Mode deactivation, optionally, an Open 16.3, OFH M-Plane Fronthaul M-Plane message can be used if deactivation via Open Fronthaul [1], clause 20.4.2 C-Plane is not available. (NOTE) The O-RU processes the Open Fronthaul C-Plane or Open Fronthaul M- Step 3.3 (O) Plane message and activates/deactivates the corresponding Advanced Sleep Mode. O-RU sends the ACK/NACK message to O-DU via Open Fronthaul C- OFH CUS-Plane Step 3.4 (O) Plane. [i.14], clause 16.1 MnS Consumer needs to be made aware of execution of this step via Step 4.1 (O) notification. Step 4.2 (O) MnS Consumer analyses the policy status. MnS Consumer needs to be made aware of execution of this step via Step 5.1 (O) clause 4.2.2.3.2 counter. Step 5.2 (O) MnS Consumer analyses the PM data. Step 6 (O) MnS Consumer removes some of the policies. clause 4.2.3.3 MnS Consumer needs to be made aware of the policy status via Step 7 (O) clause 4.2.3.3 notification. MnS Consumer removes all Advanced Sleep Mode-based energy saving Ends when related policy/configuration details from the MnS Producer. Exceptions None Post Conditions None Traceability Editor’s note: Requirements to be added later.
> NOTE: See OFH M-Plane [1], clause 20.3.2.5 for more details on interaction between TRX Control and Advanced Sleep
Mode. interface.

#### 4.2.5.3 Deep Hibernate (Hierarchical Deployment)

##### 4.2.5.3.1 Basic Objective
The objective of this use case is to illustrate an operator's use of Deep Hibernate-based energy savings via corresponding O-DU configuration by the SMO over O1 interface.

##### 4.2.5.3.2 Entities/Resources Involved
Roles in the Deep Hibernate use case: a) SMO playing the role of Provisioning MnS Consumer b) O-DU playing the role of Provisioning MnS Producer c) O-RU playing the role of network unit managed via OFH interface and executing deep hibernation

##### 4.2.5.3.3 Description
The use case illustrates interactions between the involved entities in the context of Deep Hibernate-based energy savings for the O-RU. energy saving in O-RU. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use To trigger Deep Hibernate energy saving technique in O-RU by configuring Goal the O-DU managing the O-RU in hierarchical deployment. [1]. Service Management and Orchestration Framework (SMO) as the Provisioning MnS Consumer Actors and Roles [2]. O-DU as the Provisioning MnS Producer [3]. O-RU as network unit managed via OFH interface and executing deep hibernation Assumptions O-RU supports Deep-Hibernate Feature [1]. Connection is successfully established between MnS Producer of O- DU and MnS Consumer via O1 interface. [2]. The connection is successfully established between O-DU and O-RU Pre-conditions via Open Fronthaul M-Plane. [3]. The O-DU is aware of the Deep Hibernate-related O-RU capabilities. [4]. MnS Consumer has subscribed to MnS Producers for the CM notifications. The SMO decides to trigger O-RU Deep Hibernate energy saving Begins when technique by provisioning relevant configuration to O-DU that manages O- RU in hierarchical deployment. MnS Consumer retrieves Deep-Hibernate related capabilities from MnS Producer as below: a. MnS Consumer retrieves Deep-Hibernate related capabilities from a. clause 4.2.3.3 Step 0 MnS Producer of O-DU via O1 interface. b. clause 4.2.4.4.1 b. MnS Consumer retrieves Deep-Hibernate related capabilities of the O-RU, from the MnS Producer of O-DU via O1 interface. The SMO uses O1 interface to provide the O-DU with configuration to Step 1 (M) clause 4.2.3.3, trigger Deep-Hibernate of O-RU. The O-DU triggers activation of Deep-Hibernate in O-RU using Open OFH M-Plane [1], Step 2 (M) Fronthaul M-Plane interface. clause 20.5.3 Once O-RU enters Deep-Hibernate (which results in OFH M-Plane session Step 3 (M) termination between the O-DU and the O-RU), the O-DU updates its O-RU model to reflect the O-RU entering deep hibernate. Step 4 (M) The O-DU sends O-RU model update notification to SMO. Ends when The O-DU notifies SMO about change of O-RU model Exceptions None Post Conditions None Traceability

### 4.2.6 Policy management

#### 4.2.6.1 Overview
The policy characteristics guide the configuration of NF-specific parameters for optimization and other feature implementation. O-RAN NEs/NFs report measurement metrics and KPI data to SMO. SMO derives and sends policies for O-RAN NEs/NFs via the O1 interface to achieve specific objectives related to use cases. The policy can be used by network functions (e.g., O-CU-CP and O-DU) to achieve the objective defined in the policy. In this process, O-DU can also influence the O-RU's functionality to achieve various optimizations. Policies may include performance targets, rules/conditions, and associated configurations.

#### 4.2.6.2 Basic Objective
The objective of this use case is to enable an operator through SMO to manage policies using the policy management of the MnF of the NF (e.g., O-CU-CP, O-DU) acting as MnS producer, to support various optimization use cases for that NF via the O1 interface.

#### 4.2.6.3 Entities/Resources Involved
Entities that are involved in the policy management use case: a) SMO is the MnS Consumer and policy-defining entity b) MnF of the NF as MnS Producer c) NF as a policy-enforcing entity

#### 4.2.6.4 Description
The use case demonstrates the interactions between the involved entities within the context of Policy Management. implementing various optimization features (e.g., Network Energy Saving). Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification <<Uses>> Related use Goal The SMO manages policies for the MnF of the NF (e.g., O-CU-CP, O-DU) acting as MnS producer to support various optimization features. Actors and Roles [1]. SMO is the MnS Consumer and policy defining entity [2]. MnF of the NF as MnS Producer [3]. NF as a policy enforcing entity Assumptions None Pre-conditions [1]. Connection is successfully established between MnS Producer and MnS Consumer via O1 interface. [2]. MnS Consumer has subscribed to MnS Producers for the CM Notifications. Begins when SMO decides to provide policies to the O-DU and manages them to support various optimization features. Step 0 The MnS Consumer retrieves policy management-related capabilities from O1-Interface [2] the MnS Producer as follows: a. Receiving and storing policies from the MnS Consumer. b. Evaluating the policies. c. Detecting policy conflicts and reporting conflict information. d. Making policy execution decisions. Step 1 (O) The MnS Consumer creates a policy with an associated unique identification to the MnS Producer via O1 interface, based on network and feature-related requirements. Step 2 (O) After completion of the policy creation process, the MnS Producer notifies the MnS Consumer via O1 interface on the result of the policy creation process. Step 3 (O) MnS Consumer activates the specific policy in MnS Producer via O1 interface. Step 4 (O) After the policy activation is completed, the MnS Producer notifies the MnS Consumer via O1 interface. Step 5 (O) MnS Consumer provides the revised policy to the MnS Producer via O1 interface. Step 6 (O) After completion of the policy update process, the MnS Producer notifies the MnS Consumer via O1 interface. Step 7 (O) The E2 node as NF detects the policy conflict and informs MnS Producer. Step 8 (O) MnS Producer notifies the policy conflict to MnS Consumer via O1 interface Step 9 (O) MnS Consumer deactivates policy in the MnS Producer via O1 interface. Step 10 (O) After the policy deactivation is completed, the MnS Producer notifies the MnS Consumer via O1 interface. Step 11 (O) MnS Consumer deletes the policy in the MnS Producer. Step 12 (O) Once the policy deletion is completed, the MnS Producer notifies the MnS Consumer. Step 13 (O) MnS Consumer queries the status of policy in the MnS Producer. Step 14 (O) The MnS Producer responds to the MnS Consumer with the policy status notification. Ends when MnS Consumer removes all policies from the MnS Producer. Exceptions None Post Conditions MnS Consumer is informed about the result of policy management related actions. Traceability REQ-M&O-FUN13.d, REQ-M&O-FUN13.e, REQ-M&O-FUN13.f

# 5 OAM Architecture

## 5.1 Architectural Principles
The following clause provides architecture principles guiding the support of OAM in the O-RAN architecture. Common OAM functions should be supported through a common set of OAM interface protocols across the different components of the O-RAN architecture. Management Services should, to the degree possible, align with existing standards specifications:  3GPP 5G Specifications for management interfaces  ETSI NFV Specifications for life cycle management  OFH M-Plane [1] O-RAN OAM specifications should refer to the 3GPP and ETSI specs and not replicate them here. O-RAN OAM specifications shall identify needed extensions to support O-RAN and exceptions which cannot be supported. It is the goal of O-RAN to drive any needed extensions into standards to maintain alignment between O-RAN and existing standards.

### 5.1.1 Alarm Dictionary Overview
Entities that are part of an O-RAN deployment can emit alarm notifications to the SMO to indicate adverse conditions on the entity that the SMO needs to be aware of and potentially take corrective actions for. Entities typically emit alarm notifications on one OAM interface (O2-IMS or O2-DMS for Cloud, O1 for the MnF(s) of O-RAN NFs other than the O-RU, Open FH M-Plane for O-RU). The Alarm Dictionary allows the SMO to become aware of the alarming capabilities of the O-RAN entity. The alarm dictionary provided by the vendors will be provided in a common, machine-readable format. This will allow the service provider to have a common way of querying or displaying the information they need to help them determine what actions to take when an alarm occurs. The alarm dictionary contains an entry for each alarm that the product emits to the manager. Alarm notification formats are/will be standardized on these interfaces and will contain instance specific information about the condition triggering the alarm such as an identifier for the alarm, what instance of the entity is alarming and to the degree possible pinpointing where the problem is originating from. Much of the information in the notification will be specific to this instance of the problem occurring. Some information associated with an alarm can be static (such as the alarm name or description) and not dependent upon the instance of the alarm sent in the alarm notification. Typically, this information is descriptive in nature such as providing a detailed description of why an alarm is raised, what the alarming condition means and its impact on the system and vendor suggested repair actions. To be efficient in transmission, O-RAN expects that vendors provide an alarm dictionary that contains this static information in a machine-readable format which the service provider can consult to determine what actions may be taken when a particular alarm notification is raised. The alarm dictionary is delivered to the manager as part of:  Onboarding package when a software delivery of an O-RAN NF or xApp/rApp is made.  Registration when updates are made to O-Cloud entities. The alarm dictionary is stored in a repository where the SMO can access it upon reception of an alarm notification to display the information associated with an alarm to a human user to support determining what corrective action to take. The information in the alarm dictionary definitions is not delivered within the alarm notification.

### 5.1.2 Alarm Dictionary Association with O-RAN Entities and Content
Each entity emitting alarms has an alarm dictionary version associated with each of its software versions so the SMO can determine which alarm dictionary should be consulted when the entity emits an alarm. Typically, the alarm dictionary will be associated with one or more versions of a delivery of an entity. The alarm dictionary version changes only when an alarm is added to the dictionary, has an element in the dictionary change, or if an alarm is no longer supported. For this reason, a vendor may associate several deliveries of product with the same version of an alarm dictionary. A vendor shall update the alarm dictionary whenever an alarm is added, deleted, or modified in the product software and provide a “last change” indicator for each alarm entry to make it easy for an Operator to know what has changed from one version of the alarm dictionary to another. The alarm dictionary provides information about each alarm/alarm family that an O-RAN entity emits to the manager; information that is important for understanding and processing the alarm but is not provided as part of the alarm notification itself. The entries are formatted according to a common Alarm Dictionary schema that is applicable to all O-RAN alarms over any OAM interface (O1, O2, Open Fronthaul M-Plane, Transport). The alarm dictionary consists of:  Header – information common for all alarm entries in this version of the Alarm Dictionary  Alarm Entries – one per alarm containing alarm-specific information Details shall be as defined in IM/DM [3].

### 5.1.3 Compatibility for O1 Interface

#### 5.1.3.1 Introduction
Compatibility of the Management Services offered by the MnS Producers (e.g., within NE) and MnS Consumers (e.g., within SMO) enables the correct interworking between them. Compatibility occurs when the MnS Consumer can use the MnS Producer profile, described in 3GPP TS 28.533 [i.4]. Management Services are described by the following three component types:  MnS component type A: Operations and notifications  MnS component type B: Information model  MnS component type C: Performance and Fault information

#### 5.1.3.2 MnS Component type A Compatibility
Editor's note: Content to be added later.

#### 5.1.3.3 MnS Component type B Compatibility

##### 5.1.3.3.1 Overview
The information model (i.e., model schemas and associated model instances) is considered a system of models with dependency relations between their model elements as described in 3GPP TS 32.156 [i.17], clause 5. The evolution of the IM exposed by the MnS Producer (e.g., NE) can potentially cause incompatibility with the MnS Consumer (e.g., SMO) based on the use of the exposed IM. A MnS Consumer should be able to manage different NE instances with different MnS Producer profile variants. Likewise, a MnS Consumer that manages multiple NE instances can become incompatible with one or more NE instances that expose different variants of the MnS Producer profiles as described in 3GPP TS 28.533 [i.4], clause 4.2.4. The evolution of the information model either produced by the MnS Producer (e.g., NE) or consumed by the MnS Consumer (e.g., SMO) can be realized, for example:  Adding/removing new models exposed by a new MnS Producer  Adding/modifying/removing model elements to/from an existing model exposed by a MnS Producer The compatibility between NE and SMO is defined by the ability of the SMO’s MnS Consumer to manage the model elements in order to support the management of the RAN. This evolution of the information model exposed by the MnS Producer as well as the information model used by MnS Consumer requires mechanisms (e.g., identification of model changes) to maintain compatibility between information models of both the MnS Producer and MnS Consumer. Information Model compatibility scenarios are discussed in the following clauses, introducing the concepts of full and limited compatibility.

##### 5.1.3.3.2 Information Model Compatibility Scenarios
Editor's note: Content to be added later.

#### 5.1.3.4 MnS Component type C Compatibility
Editor's note: Content to be added later.

## 5.2 Architecture Requirements
Defines the Architecture requirements applicable to the O-RAN reference architecture. Architecture requirements are derived from Use Cases to be supported and define the functional needs the architecture aims to satisfy.

### 5.2.1 Functional Requirements
REQ Description Note O-RAN OAM Architecture shall support the interaction between the Service [REQ-M&O-FUN1] Management and Orchestration Framework and the O-Cloud through O2 Use Case interface to perform virtualized resource orchestration. O-RAN OAM Architecture shall support the capability for the Service O1-Interface Management and Orchestration Framework to consume the provisioning [2] [REQ-M&O-FUN2] management service exposed by the MnF of each O-RAN NF, regardless of whether the NF is implemented as PNF or VNF, through the O1 interface. O-RAN OAM Architecture shall support creation, modification, and Use Case [REQ-M&O-FUN3] termination of VNFs in an O-RAN network by the Service Management and Orchestration Framework O-RAN OAM Architecture shall support registration and inventory of newly Use Case [REQ-M&O-FUN4] activated VNFs and PNFs by the Service Management and Orchestration Framework O-RAN OAM Architecture shall support collection of status change and other Use Case [REQ-M&O-FUN5] indications from VNFs and PNFs by the Service Management and Orchestration Framework O-RAN OAM Architecture shall support configuration of VNFs and PNFs by Use Case the Service Management and Orchestration Framework, including, for [REQ-M&O-FUN6] example, addressing information needed to allow them to connect to each other O-RAN OAM Architecture shall support management of PM jobs, PM data Use Case [REQ-M&O-FUN7] collection/storage/query/statistical reports from MnFs of O-RAN NFs O-RAN OAM Architecture shall support operation logging and operation Use Case [REQ-M&O-FUN8] authority of O-RAN NFs 3GPP TS [REQ-M&O-FUN9] O-RAN OAM Architecture shall support management of O-RAN NFs. 28.622 [i.2] Use Case & O-RAN OAM Architecture shall support hierarchical and hybrid management [REQ-M&O-FUN10] OFH M- of O-RAN O-DU and O-RU components as defined in OFH M-Plane [1] Plane [1] O-RAN OAM Architecture and interfaces shall support network slicing, Use Case [REQ-M&O-FUN11] where an instance of O-RAN NF may be associated with one or more slices. O-RAN OAM Architecture shall support O1 interface to the MnF of each O- O1-Interface [REQ-M&O-FUN12] RAN NF (with the exception of the RU) even if the MnF is deployed behind [2] a NAT The O-RAN OAM Architecture shall support the capability of the Service O1-Interface Management and Orchestration (SMO) framework to discover the RAN [2] [REQ-M&O-FUN13.a] FCAPS-related management capabilities of the O-RAN MnF that terminates the O1 interface. In case of the Hybrid Management Architecture Model, the O-RAN OAM OFH M- Architecture shall support the capability of the Service Management and Plane [1] [REQ-M&O-FUN13.b] Orchestration (SMO) framework to discover the RAN FCAPS-related management capabilities of the O-RAN network function terminating the Open Fronthaul M-Plane interface. The Service Management and Orchestration (SMO) framework shall have the O2-GA&P [REQ-M&O-FUN13.c] capability to discover the FCAPS-related management capabilities of the O- [i.9] Cloud infrastructure. O-RAN OAM Architecture shall support the capability for the Service Clause 4.2.6; [REQ-M&O-FUN13.d] Management and Orchestration (SMO) framework to provision NES policies Use Case over the O1 interface. O-RAN OAM Architecture shall support the capability for the Service Use Case [REQ-M&O-FUN13.e] Management and Orchestration (SMO) framework to manage configuration of O-RAN NFs over the O1 interface. O-RAN OAM Architecture shall support the capability for the Service Use Case Management and Orchestration (SMO) framework to be informed over the O1 [REQ-M&O-FUN13.f] interface about detected conflicts related to the policies provisioned over the O1 interface. UC O-RAN OAM Architecture shall support Antenna Line Device (ALD) DetailedSpec [REQ-M&O-FUN14] handling. [6], clause 4.20

### 5.2.2 Non-Functional Requirements
O-RAN O-RAN OAM Architecture shall support the introduction of new and more [REQ-M&O-NFUN1] white paper cost-effective technologies into the RAN through open, standard interfaces O-RAN O-RAN OAM Architecture shall support virtualization of RAN components, [REQ-M&O-NFUN2] white paper allowing operators use of common, off-the-shelf hardware implementations O-RAN OAM Architecture shall support use of Analytics and Artificial O-RAN [REQ-M&O-NFUN3] Intelligence/Machine Learning to improve network efficiency and white paper performance and reduce operations costs [i.7] O-RAN entities emitting alarms to the SMO shall provide an Alarm 5.1.1, 5.1.2 Dictionary with the product delivery that is delivered to the SMO at [REQ-M&O-NFUN4] onboarding for O-RAN NFs, xApps and rApps or at registration for O-Cloud entities. The vendor shall update the alarm dictionary when the entity emitting the 5.1.1, 5.1.2 alarm supports a new alarm definition, the information associated with the [REQ-M&O-NFUN5] alarm definition changes or the entity no longer supports an alarm definition. For each dictionary entry, the vendor shall indicate the last version in which the alarm entry changed. The SMO shall maintain the association between an entity version 5.1.1, 5.1.2 [REQ-M&O-NFUN6] onboarded from a product delivery and its alarm dictionary. The Alarm Dictionary shall be delivered following the schema to be defined 5.1.1, 5.1.2 [REQ-M&O-NFUN8] in the IM/DM specification.

### 5.2.3 Security Requirements
O-RAN OAM Architecture shall support security of interactions between the See note [REQ-M&O-NFUN4] components of an O-RAN network
> NOTE: More detailed requirements for security are addressed in SecReqSpecs [4].

## 5.3 Reference Architecture
The reference architecture defines a set of basic architectural building blocks – management services provided by the Management Function(s) of each O-RAN NF– for the O-RAN management domain.

### 5.3.1 Architectural Building Blocks

#### 5.3.1.1 O-RAN Management Services and Management Functions
The definition of a Management Service (MnS) is given in 3GPP TS 28.533 [i.4], clause 3.1. O-RAN Management Services (MnS) offer capabilities to manage and orchestrate O-RAN Network Functions. Management Functions of O- RAN NFs expose their management services to consumers. The SMO consumes the management services. Examples of Management Services supported by O-RAN include:  Provisioning  Fault Supervision  Performance Assurance  Trace Management  File Management  Software Management  Communication Surveillance  Startup and Registration of a Physical Network Function (PNF)  Instantiation and Termination of a Virtualized Network Function (VNF)  Scaling Management Services for VNF  Policy Management The definitions of supported management services and their APIs are specified in O1-Interface [2]. The definition of a Management Function (MnF) is given in 3GPP TS 28.533 [i.4], clause 3.1.

#### 5.3.1.2 O-RAN Network Elements
The definition of a Network Element (NE) is given in 3GPP TS 21.905 [i.1], clause 3.N. In the O-RAN OAM Architecture, an O-RAN Network Element is a logical entity and aggregates O-RAN Network Functions. A set of Management Functions in the NE produce Management Services toward the SMO.

#### 5.3.1.3 O-RAN Network Functions
The O-RAN Network Functions (O-RAN NFs) are defined in OAD [i.10] and include:  Near-Real-Time Radio Intelligent Controller (Near-RT RIC)  O-RAN Central Unit – Control Plane (O-CU-CP)  O-RAN Central Unit – User Plane (O-CU-UP)  O-RAN Distributed Unit (O-DU)  O-RAN Radio Unit (O-RU)

#### 5.3.1.4 Apps Hosted by O-RAN Near-RT RICs
The Near-RT RIC has the capability to host Applications (called xApps). An xApp as described in OAD [i.10] is a software application that can be developed independently from its hosting Near-RT RIC instance. Management of xApps on a hosting Near-RT RIC shall comply with the following principles:  The hosting Near-RT RIC provides certain services to the xApps via well-defined APIs;  The xApps are considered to be contained in the same logical Network Element (as defined in clause 5.3.1.2) as the hosting Near-RT RIC;  The xApps may be managed through a set of O1 MnSs terminated on the containing NE.

#### 5.3.1.5 Service Management and Orchestration Framework
The Service Management and Orchestration Framework is responsible for the management and orchestration of the O- RAN NFs under its span of control. The framework can for example be implemented as a third-party Network Management System (NMS) or orchestration platform. The Service Management and Orchestration Framework shall provide an integration fabric and data services for the MnFs of the O-RAN NFs. The integration fabric enables interoperation and communication between the SMO and the various MnFs within the O-RAN domain. Data services provide efficient data collection, storage, and movement capabilities for the MnFs. In order to implement multiple OAM architecture options together with RAN service modelling, the modelling of different OAM deployment options and OAM services (integration fabric etc.) shall be supported by the SMO.

#### 5.3.1.6 Non-Real Time Radio Intelligent Controller
The Non-RT RIC is a part of the Service Management & Orchestration Framework and communicates to the Near-RT RIC using the A1 interface, as described in OAD [i.10]. Non-RT control functionality (> 1s) and near-Real Time (near-RT) control functions (< 1s) are decoupled in the RIC. Non-RT functions include service and policy management, RAN analytics and model-training for some of the near-RT RIC functionality, and non-RT RIC optimization.

#### 5.3.1.7 Control Loop Support
O-RAN defines 3 control loops with different latency bands, as described in OAD [i.10], clause 5.2. These loops are not hierarchical but instead run in parallel. This does not mean that an NF with an inner loop will not generate its own event as result of an inner loop failure, but it will not simply propagate the lower-level event received by the inner loop. The three loops are defined as:  Loop 1: In the O-DU for per TTI/msec resource scheduling (<10 millisecond)  Loop 2: In the Near-RT RIC and O-CU for resource optimization (10 milliseconds to 1 second)  Loop 3: In the Service Management and Orchestration Framework for ML Training, Trending, Orchestration (> 1 second)

### 5.3.2 Basic OAM Architecture
The overall O-RAN Logical Architecture is shown in OAD [i.10], figure 5.1-2. The O1 interface identified in OAD and the MnFs of the O-RAN Network Functions (with the exception of the O-RU). described in O1-Interface [2] consists of a set of O-RAN Management Services that together allow management of a set of O-RAN Network Functions of an O-RAN Network Element. An O2 interface as described in O2-GA&P [i.9] consists of services, provided by the O-Cloud, to enable the SMO as a consumer to manage both cloud infrastructure and cloud deployments. The O2 interface has different requirements from the O1 interface. 5.1.2 defines the M-Plane architecture model. In the O-RAN Open FH M-Plane hierarchical model, the O-RU is managed by one or more O-DUs using the Open FH M-Plane, and the O-DU presents the O-RU to the SMO via the O1 interface. hybrid model, some OAM functions of the O-RU can also be managed directly by the SMO using the Open FH M- Plane.
> NOTE: The figure uses 5G terminology; however, the same principles will apply for LTE/4G.
3GPP TS 28.533 [i.4], figure 4.5.2 shows examples of MnS deployment scenarios. In the case where Management Functions are deployed as a separate entity from the O-RAN NF (rather than embedded), an O-RAN Network Element contains one or more MnFs producing one or more O1 management services for any number of non-O-RU O-RAN NFs, as shown in Figure 5.3.2-4. The interfaces between the O-RAN NFs and the MnFs within an NE are outside the scope of the O-RAN standardization domain. One or more of the O-RAN NFs in an NE may be Near-RT RICs. The hosted xApps may also be managed through one or more of the MnFs in the NE containing a Near-RT RIC. An O-RU does not conform to the concept of an O-RAN Logical Network Element, since the O-RU exposes the Open FH M-Plane interface rather than O1, and thus it does not expose any 3GPP-aligned MnS. As well, the O-RU can only be deployed as a PNF, and not as a deployment-independent logical function. The O1 Interface includes implementation of Fault, Configuration, Accounting, Performance, Security (FCAPS) functions, File management and Software management functions for O-RAN Network Functions. For details of the management services supported by O1, see O1-Interface [2]. The O2 Interface enables the management of O-Cloud infrastructures and the deployment life cycle management of O- RAN cloudified NFs that run on an O-Cloud. For details of the functions supported by O2, see O2-GA&P [i.9]. The Open FH M-Plane Interface includes implementation of Fault, Configuration, Accounting, Performance, Security (FCAPS) functions, File management and Software management functions for O-RU. It also specifies the carrier management aspects and is used between O-DU and O-RU.

### 5.3.3 O-RU Management Models and Managed Deployment Options
This clause describes some of the possible O-RU management models, providing a high-level description of the models. O-RAN supports multiple deployment options. Adoption of a single O-RU management model or managed deployment option is not required in the O-RAN OAM Architecture. Multiple combinations of deployments may be supported in a network.

#### 5.3.3.1 Void

#### 5.3.3.2 Hierarchical Management Architecture Model
In the hierarchical model, all entities/nodes except for O-RUs are managed directly by the SMO, but the O-RU is managed directly by the O-DU (and indirectly by the SMO). Clause 4.2.4 of this document specifies the hierarchical management of the O-RU through the O-DU. OFH M-Plane [1] specifies the details of the use of the hierarchical model for the O-RAN O-RU.

#### 5.3.3.3 Hybrid Management Architecture Model
In the hybrid model, all entities/nodes except for O-RUs are managed directly by the SMO. The O-RU is partially managed by the SMO (for FCAPS support) and partially managed by the O-DU. Details of the hybrid model for the O- RU including privilege division between SMO and O-DU can be found in OFH M-Plane [1].

#### 5.3.3.4 Example Managed Deployment Options
O-RAN also supports multiple deployment options. OAD [i.10], Annex A provides several examples of O-RAN deployments. The choice of deployment option is at the discretion of the service provider.

### 5.3.4 Network Functions Deployed behind a NAT
Service Providers prefer to not deploy Network Functions behind a NAT, but there are cases where this cannot be avoided, for example:  exhaustion of public Ipv4 addresses  deployment in large complexes not owned by the Service Provider (Apartments, Sports Venues etc.)  connections via third-party networks using a NAT When a Service Provider deploys NFs behind a NAT it is critical that they are able to retain full management control of these entities. Four methods of providing the O-RAN SMO with the ability to address an NF behind a NAT and identify data received for a NF behind a NAT are recommended in priority order: 1. Use of IPv6 as Backhaul transport where possible, eliminating the need for a NAT due to exhaustion of public IPv4 addresses 2. Use of persistent VPN tunnels (e.g., IPSec) toward a VPN concentrator (gateway) located outside of network with the NAT. The NF is then accessible through the established tunnel. 3. Use of standard protocol (UPNP or PCP) to establish a port-forwarding rule at the firewall and automatically assign itself a port. 4. Service Provider manually configures the firewall to assign a port to an entity that resides within the protected network.

### 5.3.5 Relationships between the O1 NRM entities and Architectural
entities

#### 5.3.5.1 Introduction
The architectural entities described in clause 5.3.2 have associated management entities described in O1-NRM [i.16] that encapsulate the manageable characteristics and behaviors of these architectural entities.

#### 5.3.5.2 Managed object relationships to NE and NF architectural entities
The O-RAN NE and NF entities defined in OAD [i.10] are subtypes of, respectively, the 3GPP NE defined in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1] and the 3GPP NF defined in 3GPP TS 23.501 [i.15]. As such, the corresponding 3GPP management entities are used to encapsulate the manageable characteristics and behaviors of the O-RAN NE and NF entities. The ManagedElement IOC provides the manageable characteristics and behaviors for the O-RAN NE, and the ManagedFunction IOC provides the manageable characteristics and behaviors for the O-RAN NF. These relationships are depicted in Figure 5.3.5.2-1.
> NOTE: By the time the O-RAN NE has been discovered, the O-RAN NE is expected to be comprised of at least 1
O-RAN NF.

#### 5.3.5.3 MnF relationships to NF, NE and MnS architectural entities
As described in clause 5.3.1.1, the MnF exposes management services defined by the O-RAN MnS by acting as an MnS Producer for the O-RAN MnS. The O-RAN MnS is considered a subtype of the MnS defined in 3GPP TS 28.533 [i.4], clause 3.1. Likewise, the O-RAN MnF is considered a subtype of the MnF defined in 3GPP TS 28.533 [i.4], clause 3.1. By acting as an MnS Producer, the O-RAN MnF provides the manageable characteristics and behaviors for a set of O- RAN NFs. These relationships are depicted in Figure 5.3.5.3-1.
> NOTE: An O-RAN MnF that provides the manageable characteristics and behavior for an O-RAN NF does not
have to be comprised within the same instance of an O-RAN NE.

# 6 Application Lifecycle Management (LCM)
This chapter describes Lifecycle Management of applications that are developed by a Solution Provider and delivered to a Service Provider or Network Operator for deployment in O-RAN. The chapter’s current focus is on LCM of rApps and xApps, both as defined in OAD [i.10]. Lifecycle Management follows the basic models of a Software Development Lifecycle by defining the transitional information from one state to another. There are several Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) definitions. For the purposes of discussion this document generally follows a 7-state model as shown in Figure 6-1. Some states may also include activities that align with other states. However, this level of detail is not depicted here in order to introduce those details later in the document.

# A Service Provider or Network Operator has needs which are fulfilled by a Solution
Provider. Once the Solution Provider delivers the application it is validated in a test environment prior to giving to operations to deploy. Usage of the deployed Figure 6-1: Generalized application may result in changes to configuration by the Service Provider or may be Lifecycle feedback to Solution Providers to evolve the capabilities of the network and/or its management. Although applications may come in many forms the delivery from the Solution Provider to the Service Provider needs to be done in a standardized manner. The seven steps defined in the SDLC are high level. Each may break down into a set of finer grain steps.

## 6.1 Scope
The end-to-end lifecycle involves two entities, the Solution Provider and the Service Provider. The Solution Provider provides applications for the Service Provider to use in their network. The working flow may be summarized as three phases: Development, Onboarding and Operations, as shown in Figure 6.1-1. These applications should be onboarded in a common manner, regardless of how they are deployed. This clause of the specification focuses on the data that is included in the App Package as it is exchanged between the Solution Provider and the Service Provider. This exchange is referred to as the “SP” exchange. This is not a formal interface between systems and therefore is not denoted as other O-RAN interfaces are. Care is given as not to put implementation or tooling mandates on either the Solution Provider in their development of the application, or the Service Provider in the aspect of training or deploying the application. Aspects of the lifecycle across both parties are introduced. However, not all aspects are discussed. Instead, the focus is on those activities that affect the data contained in the SP Exchange. Later in this document the term “Service Planning” is used to represent activities internal to the Service Provider. This is not the same as the “SP Exchange” used to describe the data passed from the Solution Provider to the Service Provider. The method of the SP Exchange is not defined in this document. It is sometimes referred to as the “Marketplace”. The marketplace may be implemented by either the solution provider, the service provider, or an external entity to both. The Marketplace simply represents an exchange between entities which may be done by electronic means or physical media. The App Development may provide application solutions with or without AI/ML models, while “App Onboard” and “App Operate” are responsible for application onboarding and operations. The application development may be completed in the environment provided by the Service Provider to provide additional privacy and security for the Service Provider. Applications may or may not utilize AI/ML models. Therefore, although the Model Information may be optional in the App Package, data exchange in the Application Package for applications utilizing AI/ML models is also included.

### 6.1.1 Application Package Model
Editor’s note: Figure 6.1.1-1 is currently not being updated and, together with the paragraphs describing its model elements, may contain information that is out-of-date. The following UML® diagram illustrates the high-level composition of the Application Package (AppPackage). An Application Package is the basic unit exchanged between the Solution Provider and Service Provider. The attributes of the entities in the diagram are representative.
> NOTE: UML is a registered trademarks/service mark of the Object Management Group, in the United States and
other countries. O-RAN is not affiliated with, endorsed, or sponsored by the Object Management Group. The following modifiers can be pre-pended to Model Elements to indicate context: “Solution” The version of the element as defined by the Solution Provider “Onboarded” The initial version of the catalogued elements created during onboarding. “Catalogue” Subsequent versions of the catalogued package or its elements which may have been adjusted by the Service Provider. The AppPackage contains the DeploymentDescriptor and the ManagementDescriptor. An optional MLModelDescriptor is supplied for an application employing ML technology. The DeploymentDescriptor describes the deployment options for the application that have been validated by the Solution Provider. It includes one or more DeploymentItems describing the requirements for O-Cloud deployment of the application. The DeploymentDescriptor and DeploymentItem are consumed by the SMO/NFO. The ManagementDescriptor describes the application contained in the AppPackage. It contains one or more ComponentDescriptors describing the components to be deployed as part of the application as well as elements used for FCAPS functions for the AppPackage such as an AlarmDictionary, ConfigurationModel, SecurityDescriptor, etc. The ManagementDescriptor and its components are consumed by the SMO/FOCOM. ML Models may be pre-trained by the Solution Provider and therefore provide initial Training History. The Service Provider may also train the model or retrain the model with a more specialized data set; this is called specialization. The Training History provides the mechanism to record all training and subsequent specializations applied to that training through the Training History. An example of specialization is an ML Model created to predict the flow of traffic volumes. This algorithm can be generally trained to follow road patterns for devices with a velocity greater than 20 miles per hour. This training may be done by the Solution Provider on a generalized or open data set and recorded in the MLModelDescriptor. After onboarding, the Service Provider may provide specialized training for dense urban traffic patterns which don’t always follow the roads due to periodic traffic congestion. This would be an additional Training History record added by the Service Provider and referenced as specialization in the Catalogue Training History. Further refinement may also be applied for specific cities such as New York, Los Angeles, or San Francisco which would now add 3 specializations Catalogue Training History records relating to the dense urban Catalogue Training History which is a specialization if the Onboarded Training History. Once a Catalogue DeploymentDescriptor is validated as safe for use in operations it is published to a runtime environment as a Published DeploymentDescriptor. Runtime instance data may be applied to the Published DeploymentDescriptor. Applications deployed as part of this activity are called App Instances. An App Instance running in the Non-RT RIC Runtime can be referred to as an rApp instance. An App Instance running in the near-RT RIC Runtime can be referred to as an xApp instance. An App Instance running in a training environment is referred to as a Training App instance. Diagramming Legend The legend depicted in Figure 6.1.1-2 is used across all lifecycle diagrams in this clause and is shown once so it is not required on every diagram. Bolded text on a diagram is an item identified as requiring further discussion later in the document. Text in Italics are items identified for completeness but not requiring further discussion. Meet-Me-Points (MMPs) are places where a major aspect of the lifecycle interchanges. Data may be exchanged through these MMPs but the exact mechanism of the exchange is outside the scope of this document. Destination or Decision points are color- coded according to their user community. Destination or Decision points are not a contributing factor to the data demands of the “SP” Exchange and are therefore not named. Instead, the actions or conditions that are used as a transition between points are named as the items of interest.

### 6.1.2 App Development Lifecycles
In the App Development Lifecycle only two aspects are defined, the Solution AppPackage Lifecycle and the Solution App Lifecycle.

#### 6.1.2.1 Solution App Lifecycle
The Development Lifecycle steps related to the Solution App are shown below in Figure 6.1.2.1-1. Customer feedback can consist of use case requirements, feature requests, defect notifications, or a variety of other comments. These feed the development cycle to develop new applications or enhance existing ones. Requirements are usually identified and sent to developers to implement. The outcome of the build process is the container images built using SDKs for their intended deployments. If the application is AI/ML enabled, then the training action is done. The training may happen with synthetic data or with data provided by Service Providers. Information on the training performed is included in the Solution Training History. The completed Solution App is stored in a development repository.

#### 6.1.2.2 Solution AppPackage Lifecycle
The Development Lifecycle steps related the Solution AppPackage are shown below in Figure 6.1.2.2-1. The Solution AppPackage is used to convey the Solution App through the onboarding process to the Service Provider. It begins by pulling the App out of its repository and placing it in the package as mandated by the exchange requirements. Next security is applied such that the Service Provider can ensure that an Onboarded AppPackage did in fact come from the expected Solution Provider. The secure package, Solution AppPackage, is then delivered to the Service Provider for onboarding.

### 6.1.3 App Onboarding Lifecycles
The App Onboarding phase deals with establishing configuration, policies, measurements, and required analytics. The App Onboarding Phase is involved with both AppPackages and Apps, each with its own steps and associated actions. These are treated separately below.

#### 6.1.3.1 Onboarded AppPackage Lifecycles
The Service Design steps associated with an Onboarded AppPackage are shown below: An AppPackage is onboarded from the exchange, and its content verified. If valid, its contents (the App) are unpacked and the Onboarded AppPackage and associated Onboarded App are catalogued. If invalid, the Service Provider may provide AppPackage-level feedback to the Solution Provider via the Marketplace.

#### 6.1.3.2 Onboarded App Lifecycles
The App Onboarding Phase for Onboarded Apps is split between normal processing for all applications, named “Configuration”, and the lifecycle for “Training” Apps with included AI/ML Models. Workflow can interchange between these cycles iteratively. Each of these is treated separately below.
> NOTE: The Run Time Library shown in the clauses below models a location where apps/Artifacts can be
identified as ready for future deployment. It is not intended to imply any particular method of implementation of the SMO.

##### 6.1.3.2.1 Onboarded App Certification Lifecycle
The Service Operator Certification steps associated with an Onboarded App are shown below: Onboarded Apps are made visible in the SMO environment when published into the catalogue. Each recommended configuration of the App is certified prior to publication to a runtime library. If Certification fails, then Service Planning determines the next course of action. Service Planning aggregates “fix” requests from Configuration which may be passed back to the Solution Provider (at the AppPackage level) as feedback across the SP interface of the Marketplace Exchange. This exchange also aggregates “change” requests from Configuration or Operations and determines if the request is for additional development (a “feature” request) or additional training (a “training” request). The former would be aggregated and passed back to the Solution Provider via the SP interface as described above for “fix” requests. For the latter, the Service Design: Training lifecycle would ensue. If the Onboarded App requires AI/ML training, then a request through Service Planning is used to train the model. When the “Specialized App” is returned, like non-ML Onboarded Apps it is catalogued and scheduled for certification. Once certified the App is distributed as a Published App to a Run Time Library. From there operations can deploy as either a management (rApp) or network application instance (xApp).

##### 6.1.3.2.2 App Training Lifecycle
The Service Operator Training Lifecycle associated with a Training App is shown below: When a training request is received, then resources within the training environment are scheduled for the application. Data is collected and groomed for training after which a training iteration is executed. At the end of the training cycle a test set is applied to the model and accuracy is calculated. If the test fails or other metadata indicates more training iterations are required, then the cycle repeats. Once the model is adequately trained it is promoted and sent back to service planning for continuation in another lifecycle. Inside the “Training Lifecycle” the process may require multiple iterations of training before being returned to the Service Planning MMP. The iteration count is included in the specialization metadata information.

### 6.1.4 App Operation Lifecycles
There can be many runtime environments in the service providers’ network. Some can be production while others can be for non-production execution, such as offline training and lab certification. This document focuses on the runtime aspects of rApps, which execute within the Non-RT RIC as part of the SMO, and xApps, which execute in the near-RT RIC as part of the RAN. Although they have the same lifecycle steps the data demands due to their operational environment are different and therefore are independently addressed.

#### 6.1.4.1 App Instance Lifecycles
After the App Instance is created through a deploy operation it is monitored. As monitoring reports the health and workload of the application it is scaled up and down based on demand. Based on monitoring result, a series of operation and management functions are triggered, such as alert management, event management, incident management and further analysis. The analysis results can provide guidance for further actions such as termination, healing and scaling. Finally, when its job is completed, the instance is terminated. While in operation the service provider may discover defects, performance issues, or identify new features that would be beneficial. Such issue or change request is communicated to the Service planning where the Application can be retrained or updated. The information may also be sent via the Service Planning to the Solution Provider as feedback. Operations determine when an application is deployed, or undeployed. Since applications are atomic, the update process is an orchestrated process of deploy and terminate. It is possible for two versions to be active at the same time, but care should be given not to provide overlapping scopes to the application instances, otherwise they may give differing directives to the network in a random order. This can cause a destabilization of the network.

## 6.2 Common Application Lifecycle Conclusions
The initial conclusion of Common Application Lifecycle procedures is that there is a formalized exchange between the Solution Provider and the Service Provider, the “SP Exchange”. The SP Exchange consists of data describing the package and its security. The package also contains information regarding Deployment Configurations, Application Types, Deployable Components, and potentially ML Models. Further details regarding the composition of these areas are defined through analysis of the Actions identified in clause 6.1 as an action requiring further analysis (Bolded). O- RAN use cases for App Operation Lifecycle actions beyond “Deploy” have not been specified. Therefore, the analysis of the App Operation Lifecycles has been limited to the “Deploy” action. The analysis consists of identifying the actors within the LCM which need information. Each Information Object is then analyzed for the Actions identified above and what is needed by each actor is identified. The actor information requirements are then be coalesced into artifacts such that each artifact is only consumed by one actor. This maintains a separation of concern regarding artifact composition for different consumers.

### 6.2.1 Information Consumers
The following actors are used in the analysis as consumers of information. The CNAD is unique in that it is also the producer of all the artifacts used to convey the information. However, since this is a basic premise, it is not used in the analysis to describe its role in artifact generation. Actor Role Description CNAD Cloud Native Application Vendor who wants to develop a CNA to be deployed into an O-RAN Developer network utilizing CMT provided by a CP which is onboarded and deployed by the SMO. CMT Container Management Technology such as HELM® and/or Kubernetes® used to manage Technology network functions components using cloud native de facto standards. This is different from the CP as the same CMT might be provided by different CPs.
> NOTE: HELM and Kubernetes are registered trademarks/service marks
of the Linux Foundation, in the United States and other countries. O- RAN is not affiliated with, endorsed or sponsored by the Linux Foundation. CP Cloud Provider Cloud provider which provides cloud services including CMT. The exact mechanism or service points to provide the CMT may be cloud specific. This is different than the CMT as a CP can provide multiple CMT. SMO Service Management & This is the main orchestrator for a Telecom Service Provider to onboard Orchestration and provide lifecycle management of vendor products. RTE Near-RT/Non-RT RIC The near-RT RIC and Non-RT RIC provide the ability to be extended by 3rd party xApps and rApps, respectively. To integrate these apps into its framework a descriptor is supplied to its Run Time Environment (RTE).

### 6.2.2 Solution SW Package Lifecycle
The Solution SW package lifecycle deals with the Solution Provider creating a secure package that can be delivered to a Service Operator for onboarding. This largely deals with the addition of all the artifacts of the software into a library and then adding security around the files and the package. Annex clause C.1 describes the processing of the artifacts into the package.

#### 6.2.2.1 Functional Requirements
REQ Description Note The Application Package shall be composed of at least all the mandatory [REQ-ALM-FUN2-1] items defined in the Application Package Descriptor and its subtending elements. The Application Package shall support security requirements as specified in [REQ-ALM-FUN2-2] SecReqSpecs [4].

### 6.2.3 Onboarded SW Package Lifecycles
The Onboarded SW Package Lifecycles deal with the importing of an Application Package by first verifying its authenticity and then verifying its consistency. Assuming the package passes those tests the contained artifacts are extracted from the package and added to the SMO catalogue. Annex clause C.2 describes the process of cataloguing the artifacts of the package.

#### 6.2.3.1 Functional Requirements
REQ Description Note The SMO shall have the capability to verify that Application Package satisfies [REQ-ALM-FUN3-1] security requirements as specified in SecReqSpecs [4]. The SMO shall verify that the values contained in the Application Package [REQ-ALM-FUN3-2] descriptors are valid prior to cataloguing. The SMO shall catalogue the verified artifacts identified in the Application [REQ-ALM-FUN3-3] Package.

### 6.2.4 Onboarded ManagementDescriptor Certification Lifecycle
The Onboarded ManagementDescriptor Certification Lifecycle entails certifying deployment options prior to utilization in a specific runtime environment. The SMO initiates the fine tuning of such an App for this deployment option. This process may be iterative, and the SMO identifies each refinement of the App and certifies the refinements results in the App being suitable for inclusion in the run time library for deployment. Annex clause C.3 describes the process of certify a deployment option of the package.

#### 6.2.4.1 Functional Requirements
REQ Description Note The SMO should validate and certify each deployment option defined in the [REQ-ALM-FUN4-1] application package prior to deployment. SMO shall be able to identify a deployment option that requires AI/ML [REQ-ALM-FUN4-2] training and initiate the training request. SMO shall be able to identify and onboard a new version of an App for a [REQ-ALM-FUN4-3] specific deployment delivered from AI/ML Training.

### 6.2.5 Application Training Lifecycle
The Application Training Lifecycle deals with the training of an AI/ML Model that was included as part of a deployment option in an application package. The model is trained, and the resultant deployment is returned as a new version of the application. Annex clause C.4 describes the process of training an application deployment option which contains one or more ML Models.

#### 6.2.5.1 Functional Requirements
REQ Description Note The Training Provider shall have the ability to receive training requests. [REQ-ALM-FUN5-1] (Note 1) Training Platform shall acquire the data from the network which satisfy the [REQ-ALM-FUN5-2] Data Requirements specified in the MLModelDescriptor. (Note 1) The Training Provider shall be able to validate that the model has been trained [REQ-ALM-FUN5-3] sufficiently, such as passing accuracy thresholds for use in a production setting. (Note 1) The Training Provider shall deliver an updated version of the App for the [REQ-ALM-FUN5-4] specified deployment option in the format that the SMO can onboard. Note 1: This requirement is overarching and generalized in nature. Specific requirements for rApps or xApps as specified by other Work Groups shall supersede this requirement when in conflict.

### 6.2.6 Deploy Instance Lifecycle
Deployment of an Application differs only slightly depending on if it is a CNF, xApp, or rApp. Basically, the process of registering with a Run Time Environment is not required when the application is a CNF. The xApp and rApp differ in the registration process and the mechanisms to connect the Application with other Applications of the same type is dependent on the framework used. The use case for CNF deployment is in CLD-ORCH-UC [i.8], clause 3.2.1. The use case for xApp deployment is in CLD-ORCH-UC [i.8], clause 3.3.2. An example use case for deployment of an rApp is in Annex C.5 of this document.

#### 6.2.6.1 Functional Requirements
REQ Description Note The SMO shall be able to deploy a CNF using a set of [REQ-ALM-FUN6-1] CloudNativeDescriptorFiles and a set of OverrideVariables as defined in the DeploymentItem. The SMO shall be able to deploy an xApp using a set of [REQ-ALM-FUN6-2] CloudNativeDescriptorFiles and a set of OverrideVariables as defined in the DeploymentItem. The SMO should be able to deploy an rApp using a set of [REQ-ALM-FUN6-3] CloudNativeDescriptorFiles and a set of OverrideVariables as defined in the DeploymentItem.


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG10.TS.OnboardingSMOSGAP.0-R004-v02.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG10.TS.OnbdSMOSGAP-R004-v02.00 Technical Specification O-RAN Work Group 10 (OAM for O-RAN)"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1] apply.
> NOTE: A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP
TR 21.905 [i.1]. SMO: A Service Management and Orchestration framework as described in the O-RAN WG1.OAD [i.2]. Application: The software aspect of a vendor product for a Network Element [i.3], an xApp or rApp which is sold/delivered to an operator. Application Artifact: A file contained within an archive such as the Application Package. Application Package: The set of information provided by a Solution Provider to a Service Provider representing all or a component of an Application. Onboarding: The process of validating and ingesting an Application Package to make it available to other services within the SMO. Service Provider: The RAN service provider often referred to as the operator. Solution Provider: Application development entity often referred to as a vendor. xApp: An application designed to run on the near-RT RIC as described in the O-RAN Architecture Description [i.2].

## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the symbols given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1] apply.
> NOTE: A symbol defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same symbol, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1].

## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1] and the following apply.
> NOTE: An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation,
if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1]. DME Data Management and Exposure FCAPS Fault, Configuration, Accounting, Performance, and Security OAM Operations, Administration, and Maintenance RLBS Replicated Load-Balanced Services SME Service Management and Exposure 4. Application Lifecycle Management (LCM)

## 4.1 Onboarding in the software lifecycle
The application software lifecycle is described in the OAM Architecture [i.5], clause 6. The onboarding phase identifies the "Onboarding" activity. This specification will detail the process that an Application Package from a Solution Provider is delivered to the Service Provider through the "Marketplace" external Meet Me Point. Applications should be onboarded in a common manner, regardless of how they are deployed. The Application Package contents are dependent on the type of application being onboarded. The required artifacts and their format are defined in a separate specification, currently under development. The conventions used to convey the details of Onboarding activity are described in the OAM Architecture [i.5], figure 6.1-4.

## 4.2 Onboarding activity
The fine-grained activities of the Onboarding are shown below in figure 4.2-1. Activities of the Onboarding Service which impact the content of the Application Package are highlighted in bold. All the functions of this activity are specific to the Onboarding Service. An Application Package is onboarded from the exchange, and its content verified. If valid, its contents (the App) are unpacked and stored/referenced in a catalogue. If invalid, the Service Provider may provide AppPackage-level feedback to the Solution Provider via the Marketplace. The capabilities described in this clause are the focus of the Onboarding SMOS.

# 5 General Aspects of the Onboarding SMOS

## 5.1 ETSI alignment

### 5.1.1 ETSI GS NFV SOL004 [2] alignment
Per the O-RAN Security Requirements [1] the package will follow the security requirements of ETSI GS NFV SOL004 [2]. However, SOL004 goes beyond just the security requirements and identifies a strict package artifact set. This set is not comprehensive enough to accommodate some Application Package capabilities required by O-RAN. Therefore, for ETSI based packages, ETSI GS NFV SOL004 [2] will be followed as specified. However, it is expected that there will be some augmentation of ETSI GS NFV SOL004 [2] or alternative approaches will be specified to cover O-RAN specific scenarios.

## 5.2 Onboarding as a distributed SMOS

### 5.2.1 Design patterns for Onboarding
The SMO may deploy one or more Onboarding SMOS instances based on the scale of Onboarding requests. The service assumes all instances are capable of onboarding a package. The FileSystem-As-A-Service can reduce physical data replication across service instance locations. However, it is expected that the Database-As-A-Service provides one consistent view of all Applications onboarded. Race conditions between services can exist if the same onboarding request is received independently to two different Onboarding SMOS instances. In this case resolution of the race condition is defined by the service implementation. There are common design patterns for implementing a distributed service. A design pattern is a tried and tested implementation example which allows developers to follow a behavioral model that other developers have successfully implemented. Conditions such as whether the service consumer is centralized or decentralized are considered to determine which patter to use. To provide greater flexibility and interoperability multiple patterns may be integrated. For the Onboarding SMOS where a user wants to onboard an Application Package, it is used from a centralized perspective, two common patterns exist one synchronous and one asynchronous that are adaptable to the Onboarding SMOS, the Replicated Load-Balanced Services (RLBS) and Saga patterns respectively.

### 5.2.2 Replicated Load-Balanced Services
RLBS is one of the simplest and most commonly used design patterns. All the service instances use a common/central load balancer. The first service instance would establish the load balancer and point to the virtual endpoint provided by the load balancer in the service registry. Each additional service instance would add itself to the back end of the load balancer. Simple service healthchecks can take service instances in and out of service providing robustness of the service when individual instances fail.

### 5.2.3 Saga
Saga provides an asynchronous pattern where instead of directy calling the API, a message is sent over an Event Bus. This eliminates the central controller and its single point of failure. It also self regulates any irregularities that may be induced due to the load balancing algorithm. However, it may become hard to debug when errors occur due the non-deterministic assignment of work to an instance.

## 5.3 Messaging

### 5.3.1 Procedure requests
In this messaging model the subscriber(s) is one the Onboarding SMOS. There could be potentially many publishers, Onboarding Service Consumers. The Onboarding SMOS will create the data product within the DME for the data structure to create an oboarding service request. Since some procedures are privileged and if supported through a notification then a form of authentication will have to be employed to ensure the requestor has the authorization to execute the procedure,

### 5.3.2 Procedure responses
In this messaging model the publisher(s) is the Onboarding SMOS. There could be potentially many subscribers, Onboarding Service Consumers. The Onboarding SMOS will create the data product within the DME for the responses to onboarding service requests.

### 5.3.3 Published notifications
In this messaging model there is one publisher, the Onboarding SMOS. There could be potentially many subcribers, Onboarding Service Consumers. The Onboarding SMOS will create the data product within the DME for the event(s) which will notify service consumers of state changes to Application Packages,

## 5.4 Reference vs copy
The Onboarding Service provides reference to objects which may require modification prior to deployment and some which should never be modified. Some artifacts may be small and others extremely large. The strategy for data reference vs data replication should be documented. Large extremely static objects should only be replicated as needed for resiliency. Software binaries whether as a software update package or as an executable image in a cloud environment shouldn't be replicated for any other reason. Preferably the O-Cloud would have access to such a repository and therefore only the image reference would be registered with the O-Cloud for which it will receive a deployment request. Other data may or may not require modification prior to being able to deploy the application. When data has to be modified it is done in the local copy maintained by the Onboarding Consumer. When no modification is required and the Onboarding Consumer needs to provide the artifact to another entity it is preferable that it provides a reference to the original artifact rather than a copy to it. This limits the number of copies that must be managed when an application version is no longer required and SMO storage space needs to be reclaimed.

## 5.5 General Aspect: Idempotence
The overall concept of idempotence is that repeated requests for the same thing will result in the same outcome. This has some limitations when applied to the public procedures of the Onboarding service which are discussed here. The Onboarding procedure can be called multiple times to recover from procedural failures. But once the notification that the package has been made available to other SMOS, who may now reference the package data, reloading the package is not possible. To reload after this point, delete, due to scheduled delete or forced delete, is required before the package can be re- onboarded. Deprecate can be called repeatedly. If the Application Package is already in a DEPRECATED state no change to the record or its scheduled deletion time will occur, but success will still be returned to the consumer. Forced Delete causes the entry to no longer exist. Therefore, if the object does not exist it assumes it was previously deleted and instead of indicating a not found error, it will return an indication of success. Repeated calls to Cancel Delete will not change the state which would have been moved to AVAILABLE or modify the already cleared scheduled deletion time attribute. However, success will still be returned. Query is by default idempotent since is provides only read access to the data and no change occurs.

## 5.6 Role based access
The Onboarding service supports two roles, an operator user and an administrator user. To ensure that only entitled users are allowed to execute the procedures exposed by the Onboarding SMOS, the required role for each procedure is to be specified.

## 5.7 Deprecation vs deletion
The Onboarding SMOS provides data which may be referenced by other SMOS. It is not aware of all the references that might exists. Therefore, it cannot ensure that all references have been deleted, or can be deleted without violating the referential integrity of the data in the SMO. Therefore, it uses the concept of deprecation to identify Application Packages which have been targeted for delete. Onboarding event consumers would be notified when an Application Package has moved to the DEPRECATED state. The event will also reflect the time at which the entry will actually be deleted. Consumers with references to the data will need to remediate its reference to the data prior to the identified deletion date. The package details for a DEPRECATED package can be retrieved. Consumers may retrieve artifacts that may be needed for recovery of applications already deployed. Packages in a DEPRECATED state should not be retrieved except as specified above. Additionally, the administrator will need to retrieve the package detail (metadata) in order verify if it is eligible for a forced delete. A forced delete operation assumes that all the references to the data targeted for deletion in any SMOS has been previously deleted ensuring the overall referential integrity. For Applications Packages with a scheduled deletion any time before the deletion data a privileged user can cancel the deletion and thus move the Application Package back to the AVAILABLE state.

## 5.8 Hierarchical packages
Solution providers need to deliver a variety of application packages to service providers corresponding to different types of applications, e.g. Cloudified NFs, PNFs, rApps, etc. In a cloud native paradigm, applications are usually made up of smaller software pieces, or microservices, with independent life cycles. For a Cloudified NF [i.4], this model is supported by the NF Deployment concept [i.4]. An NF Deployment can for example represent one microservice or a set of microservices that have tight interdependencies and are therefore bundled together by the solution provider. When the solution provider needs to deliver a modification in one of these NF Deployments it is not necessary to deliver the complete Cloudified NF again but only the package of the affected NF Deployment. Notwithstanding this, there is still information that belongs to the Cloudified NF as a whole, not to any of its constituent NF Deployments. An obvious example is a descriptor or artifact indicating how the cloudified NF is made up of NF Deployments. This type of information is delivered in a Cloudified NF package. Thus, the solution provider uses packages at different levels to deliver the application software and artifacts: a Cloudified NF package and one or multiple NF Deployment packages, where the former references the latter ones. The reference is typically version specific. It is expected that the Onboarding SMOS will be capable of performing the onboarding of a Cloudified NF package and the onboarding of NF Deployments packages as individual procedures.

# 6 Principles of the Onboarding SMOS

## 6.1 Contained functionality of the Onboarding SMOS

### 6.1.1 Package security

#### 6.1.1.1 Application Package supply chain security
The Onboarding SMOS provides the functionality to meet all the security requirements assigned by O-RAN Security Requirements [1], clause 5.3.2.1.1 to the Application Package. The Onboarding SMOS verifies that the package and/or contained artifacts were properly signed and the Solution Providers certificate is valid.

#### 6.1.1.2 Application Package content security
The Onboarding SMOS provides the functionality to meet all the security requirements assigned by the O-RAN Security Requirements [1], clause 5.3.2.1.2 The Onboarding SMOS verifies that the package contents have not been modified since the package was created.

### 6.1.2 Package delivery format

#### 6.1.2.1 Application Package archive compression
The Application Package is expected to be transported in a compressed format. The Onboarding SMOS provides the functionality to know how the received archive is uncompressed so that downstream consumers of the package artifacts are able to directly access an uncompressed version of the artifact.

#### 6.1.2.2 Application Package archive structure
The Application Package will have a defined structure that allows the Onboarding SMOS to locate the different artifacts. When the Onboarding SMOS extracts the artifacts and stores them in catalogues the package structure is not maintained. Once unpacked, individual artifacts are identifiable without the support of the package structure. Thus, consumers of individual artifacts are in general unaware of the original package structure and are not affected by changes in it.

## 6.2 Artifact handling

### 6.2.1 File data

#### 6.2.1.1 File storage
File Data refers to the file content, which from the perspective of the Onboarding SMOS is opaque. It does not mean that the content of the data is not organized, only that it is not from the perspective of the Onboarding SMOS. A configuration file in YANG has a specific structure and definition, as does a configuration file in JSON. However, from the Onboarding SMOS perspective, just like all the artifacts in an Application Package they are just a file and needs to be stored.

#### 6.2.1.2 File security
Images and Software Packages are specific artifacts with specific security requirements in O-RAN.

#### 6.2.1.3 File accessibility
Some files can be extremely large and therefore might be in a common tool accessible to the SMO and O-Clouds alike. The Onboarding service will provide an accessible URL or URN to the file. Therefore, the consumer need not know the details of where or how it is stored.

### 6.2.2 Catalog data
There is metadata associated with the package and its artifacts. This metadata is stored in a query-able catalog. Consumers do not need to know what database or storage technology is used for the catalog as the Onboarding Service will provide a Query procedure to filter and select the data they need for their processing.

# 7 Onboarding functionality

## 7.1 Use cases

### 7.1.1 Use case overview
The use cases below are high level descriptions from the perspective of the Onboarding Service Consumer. The use case identifies several aspects of the service behaviour the following variable are used to express the use case. Variable Text Description Consumer Who is requesting an operation to be performed by the Onboarding Service Feature Name What feature or capability is being requested Feature Behavior What extending behaviors does the feature need to provide, can be left blank Expected Outcome What is the expected outcome of the feature Enabled Need Why does the consumer need the feature The variables can be inserted into an epic like story: As the {Consumer} I need the Onboarding Service to provide the capability to {Feature Name} [with the ability to {Feature Behavior}] to {Expected Outcome} so that I can {Enabled Need}.

### 7.1.2 Onboard
Variable Value Consumer Service Designer Feature Name Onboard an Application Feature Behavior Recover from previous failures Expected Outcome Provide package artifacts in a catalogue Enabled Need Certify and/or train the Application as part of a service.

### 7.1.3 Deprecate
Variable Value Consumer Service Designer Feature Name Deprecate an Application Feature Behavior Identify its scheduled deletion date Change the Application Package state is DEPRECATED and establish a Expected Outcome scheduled deletion date Enabled Need Retire older application versions once they are no longer needed by operations

### 7.1.4 Forced Delete
Variable Value Consumer Systems Administrator Feature Name Force the deletion of an Application Feature Behavior Without regard to referential integrity Expected Outcome Application and its artifacts are forcibly deleted from the catalogue Enabled Need Cleanup Applications in the catalogue

### 7.1.5 Application List Query
Variable Value Consumer Service Designer Feature Name Query for a list of available Applications Feature Behavior To filter by Application type, name, vendor, and/or version Expected Outcome A list of qualifying Applications can be identified Enabled Need The selection of an Application to retrieve

### 7.1.6 Application Manifest Query
Variable Value Consumer Service Designer Feature Name Query Application Manifest Feature Behavior To filter to exclude or include a list of artifacts Application descriptive data and/or a list of qualifying artifacts each identified Expected Outcome as a link to a readable file Enabled Need To get package data not included in an artifact

### 7.1.7 Application Artifact Query
Variable Value Consumer Service Designer Feature Name Query Application Artifacts Feature Behavior To filter a list of artifacts by by type or use Expected Outcome Application list of qualifying artifacts identified as a link to a readable file Enabled Need Open an artifact as a file for processing

### 7.1.8 Application Delete Cancelation
Variable Value Consumer Systems Administrator Feature Name Cancel Application Delete Feature Behavior Change the Application Package state to AVAILABLE and remove a Expected Outcome scheduled deletion date Enabled Need Cancel a scheduled delete to extend the availability of the Application Package

## 7.2 Procedures

### 7.2.1 Procedure actors
The following actors are used in the analysis as consumers of information. Other actors may be defined in 6.2.1 of the OAM Architecture [i.5]. Actor Role Description Application Package Source The Application Package Source is the Application Archive outside the SMO but accessible from the SMO. Although the package is a file on the source and therefore is like an entity a “Participant” UML symbol is used since it is external to the Onboarding SMOS. Service Consumer An Onboarding SMOS Consumer who initiates the "Onboarding" process to an accessible Application Package. The Onboarding Service Consumer can also represent a consumer of an Onboarded Application Package or one or more of its artifacts. The "Participant" UML symbol represents any type of participant participant that is external to the Onboarding SMOS. An Event Bus The Event Bus is used to publish and subcribe to events. The "Participant" UML symbol is used to represent the service is outside the Onboarding SMOS. The Onboarding SMOS API This is the Onboarding SMOS API. The "Boundary" UML symbol is reserved for Onboarding SMOS components and represents the point from which a consumer can invoke a service capability. Other than user privilege check there is no service logic within the API and it must call a service procedure to implement the exposed capability. An Onboarding SMOS Service This can be any Onboarding SMOS procedure which Procedure implements service logic. The "Control" UML symbol is reserved for Onboarding SMOS components and represents a capability provided by the service which may or may not be exposed through the Onboarding API. As a Control it can call any other participant. File System Store for This is a File System for the Onboarding SMOS storage Application Package and its of files. While the Onboarding SMOS is the only writer of Artifacts files to this entity, external consumers can read files placed there. The "Entity" UML symbol is used here to represent a collection of files which are internally managed as a component of the Onboarding SMOS. As an Entity it cannot call any other participant. It can only be called. Onboarding Catalog This is a queryable data store which allows selection based on field value filtering and relatioinships between data elements. The "Entity" UML symbol is used to identify it as a persistent structured store as a component of the Onboarding SMOS. As an Entity it cannot call any other participant. It can only be called.

### 7.2.2 Exception handling
When any of the following exceptions occur, normal processing terminates. Exception Description Occurring Public Procedure Pre-Existence Failure Attempt to onboard an existing package that has already been Onboarding made available to other SMOSs. Before re-onboarding it must be deleted first. This will require assistance from a user with the administrative role. Authentication Failure Application Package is not properly "signed" by the Solution Onboarding Provider. The vendor's certificate was not used to "sign" the package therefore the source of the package is suspect, and a new, properly signed package should be received from the vendor before retrying to onboard. Verification Failure Application Package artifacts appear to have been modified Onboarding and do not match the security data inside the package. The package should be considered damaged or tampered. The package should be considered suspect, and a new package should be received from the vendor before retrying to onboard. File Storage Error Unknown cause of failure to the SMO file system. This could Onboarding be due to storage, permissions, or some other file system failure. Onboarding can be retried. If the problem persists, consult with an administrator. Database Add Failed The Application Package record could not be added to the Onboarding structured data store. Onboarding can be retried. If the problem persists, consult with an administrator. Package Not Found requested Package did not exist or was in a state in which it Query could not be returned. Deprecated Delete Forced Delete Cancel Deprecation Permission Error The user did not have a required role. Forced Delete Cancel Deprecation Modify Retention Period File Delete Error Unknown cause of failure to the SMO internal file system Forced Delete during the delete process. The file was not deleted. Update Configuration The service configuration could not be updated, created or Configuration Update Error deleted due to an unknown error.

### 7.2.3 Procedure: API Handling

#### 7.2.3.1 Description
The invocation of a service exposed by the Onboarding SMOS can be realized via a synchronous method or asynchronous method. The difference between both methods is illustrated in figure 7.2.3.2-1. The methods are common for all service invocations and therefore they are only documented in this clause. The procedure flows simply show the invocation of the service consumer as an interaction with the API Boundary, i.e. the synchronous method. This does not restrict the ability of the service consumer to choose the asynchronous method for the service invocation.

#### 7.2.3.2 Procedure

### 7.2.4 Procedure: Onboard

#### 7.2.4.1 Onboard

##### 7.2.4.1.1 Description
The Onboard procedure is a public procedure that can be invoked by a general or administrative user via the onboarding API. The procedure checks if the package to be onboarded has been tried before and if its present state allows, it restores the environment to a condition conducive to proper operation of the end-to-end flow of the Onboard, Verify, and Unpack procedures.
> NOTE: There can be a multitude of fault conditions during the procedure beyond those illustrated in the example, In particular
the flow does not show the detection of concurrent requests to onboard the same package which may be required to ensure that concurrent requests do not corrupt the catalog or file store.

##### 7.2.4.1.2 Procedure

#### 7.2.4.2 Procedure: Verify

##### 7.2.4.2.1 Description
The Verify procedure is a private procedure which encapsulates the security aspects of the onboarding process and can only be invoked by the Onboarding procedure. As a private procedure its implementation as a procedure is at the discretion of the Solution Provider. It is described here to establish the Information Model and functional requirements of the end-to-end Onboarding procedure.

##### 7.2.4.2.2 Procedure

#### 7.2.4.3 Procedure: Unpack

##### 7.2.4.3.1 Description
The Unpack procedure is a private procedure which encapsulates the aspects of compression and archive structure aspects of the onboarding process. The Unpack procedure can only be invoked by the Verify procedure if it completes without error. As a private procedure its implementation is at the discretion of the Solution Provider. It is described here to establish the requirements of the end-to-end Onboarding procedure.

##### 7.2.4.3.2 Procedure

#### 7.2.4.4 Procedure Onboard, verify, unpack: alternative example flow

##### 7.2.4.4.1 External vs. internal behaviour
The flows in clauses 7.2.4.1, 7.2.4.2 and 7.2.4.3, when combined, illustrate a possible way of sequencing the different actions expected from the Onboarding SMOS Producer during the onboarding of a package, including the verification of the integrity and authenticity of the package, the unpacking and the storing of the contents in a File Store. They also include error handling, in particular, in the case of an attempt to onboard a package that was already onboarded and in state AVAILABLE. However, as many of the actions are internal to the Onboarding SMOS Producer, the flows are not meant to represent mandatory sequences. The flows fulfil the functional requirements of the Onboarding SMOS Producer during the onboarding procedure with a sequence of interactions. One can distinguish:
- interactions of the Onboarding SMOS Producer with the Onboarding SMOS Consumers and the end result of the
onboarding procedure
- internal interactions within the Onboarding SMOS Producer
The interactions with the consumer and the end result of the procedure define the externally visible behaviour of the Onboarding SMOS Producer. An Onboarding SMOS Producer has to fulfil the functional requirements of the onboarding procedure. It also has to expose the externally visible behaviour and end result, as specified in the flows, in order to ensure interoperability. The internal interactions are just a possible way, among others, for an Onboarding SMOS Producer to fulfil the functional requirements and expected external behaviour and they don’t constitute a mandatory sequence. The onboarding procedure starts with an interaction with a consumer:
- Onboard service request
The successful result of the onboarding of a package is:
- Integrity and authenticity of the package and artifacts have been verified
- All the artifacts in the onboarded package, included the manifest, stored in the Onboarding File Store
- Package and artifact records created in the Onboarding Catalog
- State of the package set AVAILABLE
- Notification sent to consumers that have subscribed to notifications
Furthermore, an onboarding request attempting to onboard a package that is already onboarded and in state AVAILABLE is not allowed and results in an error that is returned to the consumer. All the interactions between the Onboarding SMOS Producer and the consumers and the result of the onboarding procedure as listed above constitute the standard behaviour of an O-RAN compliant Onboarding SMOS Producer during the onboarding procedure. In contrast, all internal interactions shown in the flows can be subject to implementation alternatives that do not affect the end result. In particular:
- Sequence of the internal verify and unpack procedures can be dependent on the security option used in the package. In
some cases the verification requires unpacking of each single artifact. Therefore, an Onboarding SMOS Producer may opt for performing both internal procedures in parallel.
- The VERIFIED state is a transient state that in some valid sequences may not exist, for example if verifying and
unpacking is done in parallel and the package state is directly set to AVAILABLE at the end of the procedure.
- The service logic distributed in the control procedures onboard, verify, unpack can be combined in a single control
procedure or distributed differently
- There are alternative ways of handling concurrent attempts to onboard the same package. It is also a valid sequence to
reject an attempt while there is another ongoing procedure related to the same package.
- The construction of the artifact records may be undertaken by the Onboarding Catalog after retrieving the manifest
from the Onboarding File Store
- An Onboarding procedure may include other cleaning actions when encountering error situations apart from the ones
shown in the flows. The above list is not intended to be exhaustive. To illustrate some of these differences an alternative and also valid sequence flow encompassing the complete onboard, verify and unpack is shown in figure 7.2.4.4.2-1.
> NOTE: there can be a multitude of fault conditions during the procedure beyond those illustrated in the example, In particular
the flow does not show the clean up actions that may be required upon detection of a previous unsuccessful onboarding attempt related to the same package.

##### 7.2.4.4.2 Procedure

### 7.2.5 Procedure: Configuration Query

#### 7.2.5.1 Description
The Configuration Query procedure is a public procedure that can be invoked any user. The procedure provides exposure of the configuration parameters through the onboarding API.

#### 7.2.5.2 Procedure

### 7.2.6 Procedure: Configuration Update Period

#### 7.2.6.1 Description
The Configuration Update procedure is a public procedure that can only be invoked by an administrative user. The procedure provides exposure of the configuration parameters and allows the consumer to modify their values through the onboarding API. The Retention Period is the only configuration parameter identified by this specification, but others may exist based on the implementation.

#### 7.2.6.2 Procedure

### 7.2.7 Procedure: Catalog Query

#### 7.2.7.1 Description
The Query procedure is a public procedure that can be invoked by a general or administrative user through the onboarding API. It allows consumers to discover and access packages that have been successfully onboarded.

#### 7.2.7.2 Procedure

### 7.2.8 Procedure: Artifact File Access

#### 7.2.8.1 Description
The Artifact File Access procedure is a procedure that uses the file system APIs which are on the File Store that can be reached by the "filename" of the artifact which is a complete URL supporting the file I/O type of services.

#### 7.2.8.2 Procedure

### 7.2.9 Procedure: Deprecate Package

#### 7.2.9.1 Description
The Deprecate Package procedure is a public procedure that can be invoked by an administrative user via the onboarding API. The procedure can only be performed at the Application Package level. If the package does not exist an error is returned. If the Application Package is already in a DEPRECATED state success is returned but no change is made. If the Application Package is AVAILABLE the package state is moved to DEPRECATED and the scheduled deletion time is established based on the current retention period configuration value and/or the date of deprecation is established.

#### 7.2.9.2 Procedure

### 7.2.10 Procedure: Cancel Deprecation

#### 7.2.10.1 Description
The Cancel Deprecation procedure is a public procedure that can only be invoked by an administrative user through the onboarding API. The procedure can only be performed at the Application Package level. If an Application Package is inthe AVAILABLE state, then success is returned. If the Application Package is in a DEPRECATED state, then the Deletion Date is removed, and the Application State is changed to AVAILABLE before success is returned. If the Application Package is in any other state an error is returned.

#### 7.2.10.2 Procedure

### 7.2.11 Procedure: Forced Delete

#### 7.2.11.1 Description
The Forced Delete procedure is a public procedure that can be invoked by an administrative user. The procedure is also invoked by the Purge procedure. The procedure can only be performed at the Application Package level. If the package does not exist success is still returned since the goal of the procedure was its removal. Upon successful completion the Application Package and all its artifacts are deleted from the Onboarding service.

#### 7.2.11.2 Procedure

### 7.2.12 Procedure: Purge

#### 7.2.12.1 Description
The Purge procedure is a private procedure which encapsulates the auto-deletion of DEPRECATED or PARTIAL Application Packages. As a private procedure its implementation as a procedure is at the discretion of the Solution Provider and it is not invoked via the onboarding API. It is described here to establish the abstracted functionality and requirements hidden within the service implementation of the Onboarding SMOS.

#### 7.2.12.2 Procedure

# 8 Onboarding service requirements

## 8.1 Requirement conventions
Requirement categories are described in the “Management interface specification methodology” [i.6], clause A.1.3.The Onboarding Service will have functional (FUN), non-functional (NON), and administrative (ADM) requirement categories. Requirements are to be written based on the following template: REQ-Label-Category-Number where "Label" is an abbreviation for the application type that the requirement is scoped to, category is the abbreviation listed above, and “Number” is a unique 2-digit numberical value within the label-category.
- ONBD Requirements specific to the Onboarding procesee
- CTLG Requirements specific to Catalog Exposure
- AFA Requirements specific to Artifact Access
- CNFG Requirements specific to configuration of the Onboarding Service

## 8.2 Onboarding requirements
REQ-ONBD-FUN-01: The Onboarding Service shall provide an interface to initiate the onboarding of an Application Package that is initially not trusted. REQ-ONBD-FUN-02: The Onboarding Service shall verify that a signature for the expected vendor has been properly provided, as specified by O-RAN Security Requirements [1], for the package and/or artifacts. REQ-ONBD-FUN-03: The Onboarding Service shall validate the integrity of artifacts contained in the Application Package as specified by O-RAN Security Requirements [1]. REQ-ONBD-FUN-04: The Onboarding Service shall unpack all artifacts from the Application Package. REQ-ONBD-FUN-05: The Onboarding Service shall notify interested downstream consumers of events which change the state of an onboarding package.

## 8.3 Catalog requirements
REQ-CTLG-FUN-01: The Onboarding Service shall provide a query service to enable access to the Application Package as received from the vendor. REQ-CTLG-FUN-02: The Onboarding Service shall provide a query service to access the metadata contained in the Application Package. REQ-CTLG-FUN-03: The Onboarding Service shall provide a query service to retrieve artifact details for artifacts contained in the Application Package.

## 8.4 Artifact access requirements
REQ-AFA-FUN-01: The Onboarding Service shall provide the exposure of File System services enabling service consumers to be able to open and read artifacts extracted from an Application Package. REQ-AFA-FUN-02: The Onboarding Service shall provide the ability to identify an extracted artifact from its path, relative or absolute, as identified in a reference used in another artifact.

## 8.5 Service configuration requirements
REQ-CNFG-ADM-01: The Onboarding Service shall provide the capability to change the amount of time that a package stays in the deprecated state before it is deleted. REQ-CNFG-ADM-02: The Onboarding Service shall provide the capability to modify the service configuration only to a user with specific administrative privileges. REQ-CNFG-ADM-03: The Onboarding Service shall provide the capability for any user to fetch the current service configuration parameters.

# 9 Onboarding service Information Model
Not specified in this version of the specification.


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG10.TS.TE&IV-API.0-R004-v03.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG10.TS.TE&IV-API.0-R004-v03.00 Technical Specification O-RAN Work Group 10 (OAM for O-RAN) Specification - Stage 3"
---

# 4 Application protocol for TE&IV services

## 4.1 Introduction
The present document contains a realization of the services identified in TE&IV UCR [1]. This definition of the TE&IV Application Protocols Interface (TE&IV API) defined in the present document is based on the 3GPP service framework for network functions specified in 3GPP TS 29.501 [3].

## 4.2 Version conventions for the present document
The version number of the present document follows the "xx.yy " versioning scheme. There could be implications for the interoperability between TE&IV Service Consumers and TE&IV Service API implementations in the SMO that are based on different versions of the present document. An incremented "xx" version field of the present document could indicate that a new major feature (e.g., a new TE&IV Service) has been added or that an incompatible change has been made to one or more TE&IV Service APIs. An incremented "yy" version field could indicate that an optional feature has been added, a technical issue has been fixed, or that clarifications or editorial corrections have been made. The version conventions for RESTful TE&IV Service APIs are defined in clause 5.2.

# 5 RESTful TE&IV Service APIs

## 5.1 Overview
The design of the RESTful TE&IV Service APIs is based on the services and requirements defined in TE&IV UCR [1], and on the protocol design framework as specified in 3GPP TS 29.501 [3]. The present document defines the protocols for the TE&IV service APIs listed in table 5.1-1. Service API API version Topology & Inventory API 1.0.0

## 5.2 Versioning of RESTful TE&IV Service APIs
Each RESTful TE&IV Service API is versioned independently. The API version number defined in the present document contains three numerical fields following a MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH pattern, and may contain a pre-release version field, according to SemVer [4]. The API version number held by an implementation may additionally include a build metadata field, according to SemVer [4], to indicate a specific deployment. The content of this field is implementation specific; it is provided by the deployment. The <apiVersion> path segment used in URI structures indicate the MAJOR field of the API version number. The full API version number is visible in the "version" field of the "info" object of each OpenAPI document in Annex A. To indicate the full API version the API Consumer intends to use, the API Consumer may include the "Version" HTTP header (see IETF RFC 4229 [i.1]) in an HTTP request, in which case the header shall contain the version identifier as defined above. It is optional to include the build metadata field. The API Producer shall include in the response the "Version" HTTP header signalling the used API version, including the build metadata if available. If the build metadata have been omitted in the request, the API Producer shall use the combination of MAJOR, MINOR, PATCH, and pre-release indicator as requested and the highest supported value for the build metadata field for that combination, if available. In case the API Consumer has not sent a "Version" header in the request, the API Producer shall use the latest available version, and signal it in the "Version" header.
> NOTE: In case multiple versions are supported by an API Producer under the URI for a major version, this allows the
API Consumer to request a particular version. This mechanism is referred to as "microversioning". If the API version signalled by the API Consumer in the "Version" request header is not supported by the API Producer, the API Producer shall respond with a "406 Not Acceptable" error and may include in the response payload body a Problem Details structure providing more information on the cause of the error.

## 5.3 URI structure and supported content formats
This clause specifies the URI prefix and the supported content formats applicable to the RESTful TE&IV Service APIs. All resource URIs of the APIs shall have the following prefix: {apiRoot}/<apiName>/<apiVersion>/ The request URIs used in HTTP requests from the API Consumer towards the API Producer shall have the resource URI structure defined in clause 4.4.1 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [3], i.e.: {apiRoot}/<apiName>/<apiVersion>/<apiSpecificResourceUriPart> with the following components:
- The {apiRoot} shall be set as described in clause 4.4.1 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [3]; however, the restrictions w.r.t the
operator specific FQDN of the host portion defined there do not apply.
- The <apiName> indicates the API name of the service interface in an abbreviated form. It is defined in the
clause specifying the corresponding RESTful TE&IV Service API.
- The <apiVersion> indicates the major version (see clause 5.2) of the API and is defined in the clause specifying the
corresponding RESTful TE&IV ServiceAPI.
- Each <apiSpecificResourceUriPart> represents a specific resource of the API. It is defined in the corresponding
RESTful TE&IV Service API for each one of the defined resources. For HTTP requests and responses that have message content, the content format JSON shall be supported (see IETF RFC 8259 [5]). The JSON content shall be signalled by the content type "application/json" and for JSON encoded YANG, the content type “application/yang.data+json” shall be used (see IETF RFC 7951 [8]). All resource URIs of the API shall comply with the URI syntax as defined in IETF RFC 3986 [6]. An implementation that dynamically generates resource URI parts (individual path segments, sequences of path segments that are separated by "/", query parameter values) shall ensure that these parts only use the character set that is allowed by IETF RFC 3986 [6] for these parts.

## 5.4 General considerations for RESTful TE&IV Service APIs

### 5.4.1 Usage of HTTP header fields
HTTP headers are components of the headers section of the HTTP request and response messages. The usage of HTTP header fields shall follow the definitions in clause 4.2 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [7].

### 5.4.2 Handling of large query results
The handling of large query results shall be supported by RESTful TE&IV Service APIs as specified in clause 5.4.2 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [7].

### 5.4.3 Error reporting
In RESTful interfaces, application errors are mapped to HTTP errors. Since HTTP error information is generally not enough to discover the root cause of the error, additional application specific error information is typically delivered in the message content based on the ProblemDetails data type. HTTP error responses shall be supported as specified in clause 4.8 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [3]. Protocol errors and application errors specified in table 5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [2] shall be supported for an HTTP method if the corresponding HTTP status codes are specified as mandatory for that HTTP method in table 5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [2]. If an HTTP method is not defined for a particular resource in the present document, that method is not supported. When that method is requested on the resource, the API Producer shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response. The message content may include a ProblemDetails structure.

# 6 Topology Exposure and Inventory Management Services

## 6.1 Topology Inventory API

### 6.1.1 Introduction
This API enables the API Consumer to query the topology entities, entity types and its relationship to other topology entities as defined in TE&IV CIMI [9].

### 6.1.2 API version
For the Topology Inventory API as specified in the present document, the MAJOR version field shall be 1, the MINOR version field shall be 0 and the PATCH version field shall be 0 (see clause 4.3.1.1 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [3] for a definition of the version fields). Consequently, the <apiVersion> URI path segment shall be set to “v1“.

### 6.1.3 Resource structure and methods
The request URIs used in HTTP requests from the API Consumer towards the API Producer shall have the resource URI structure as defined in clause 5.2. The <apiName> resource URI variable shall be “topology-inventory”. The <apiSpecificResourceUriPart> for each resource shall be set as described in clause 6.1.5. operations. Resource name Resource URI HTTP Service Operation method All topology domains …/domains GET getAllDomains All topology entity …/domains/{domainName}/entity-types GET getTopologyEntityTypes types in a topology domain All instances of a …/domains/{domainName}/entity- GET getTopologyByEntityTypeName topology entity type in types/{entityTypeName}/entities a topology domain Individual instance of …/domains/{domainName}/entity- GET getTopologyById a topology entity type types/{entityTypeName}/entities/{entityId} in a topology domain All relationships of an …/domains/{domainName}/entity- GET getAllRelationshipsForEntityId instance of a topology types/{entityTypeName}/entities/{entityId} entity type in a /relationships topology domain All topology …/domains/{domainName}/relationship- GET getTopologyRelationshipTypes relationship types in a types topology domain Individual topology …/domains/{domainName}/relationship- GET getRelationshipsByType relationship types/{relationshipTypeName}/relationshi ps Individual topology …/domains/{domainName}/relationship- GET getRelationshipById relationship instance types/{relationshipTypeName}/relationshi ps/{relationshipId} All topology model …/schemas GET getSchemas schemas Individual model …/schemas/{schemaName}/content GET getSchemaByName schema content All user defined …/user-defined-schemas GET getUserDefinedSchemas schemas POST createUserDefinedSchema User defined schema …/user-defined-schemas/{schemaName} DELETE deleteUserDefinedSchema instance Content of user …/user-defined- GET getUserDefinedSchemaByNam defined schema schemas/{schemaName}/content e instance Mapped HTTP Custom operation URI Description method {apiRoot}/topology- POST Update or delete specified entities and/or inventory/<apiVersion>/manage-classifiers relationships with classifiers. {apiRoot}/topology- POST Update or delete specified entities and/or inventory/<apiVersion>/manage- relationships with decorators. decorators

### 6.1.4 Service operations

#### 6.1.4.1 Operation getAllDomains
The API Consumer uses this operation to discover the available topology domains Consumer ->> Producer: GET …/domains Producer -->> Consumer: 200 OK (Domains) The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP GET request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource (…/domains) to discover the available topology domains. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP GET response. On success, “200 OK” shall be returned and the message content shall carry a topology domain information. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message content may contain additional error information.

#### 6.1.4.2 Operation getTopologyEntityTypes
The API Consumer uses this operation to discover the topology entity types in a topology domain. Consumer ->> Producer: GET …/domains/{domainName}/entity-types Producer -->> Consumer: 200 OK (EntityTypes) The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP GET request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource (…/domains/{domainName}/entity-types) to discover the topology entities within a topology domain. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP GET response. On success, “200 OK“ shall be returned and the message content shall carry a topology entity types information within a topology domain. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message content may contain additional error information.

#### 6.1.4.3 Operation getTopologyByEntityTypeName
The API Consumer uses this operation to query all instances of a topology entity type in a topology domain Consumer ->> Producer: GET …/domains/{domainName}/entity-types/{entityTypeName}/entities Producer -->> Consumer: 200 OK (Entities) The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP GET request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource (…/domains/{domainName}/entity-types/{entityTypeName}/entities) to query the instances of a specific topology entity type within a topology domain. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP GET response. On success, “200 OK” shall be returned and the message content shall carry the instances of a specific topology entity type information within a topology domain. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message content may contain additional error information.

#### 6.1.4.4 Operation getTopologyById
The API Consumer uses this operation to query an instance of a topology entity type in a topology domain Consumer ->> Producer: GET …/domains/{domainName}/entity- types/{entityTypeName}/entities/{entityId} Producer -->> Consumer: 200 OK (EntityInstance) The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP GET request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource (…/domains/{domainName}/entity-types/{entityTypeName}/entities/{entityId}) to query an instance of a specific topology entity type within a topology domain. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP GET response. On success, “200 OK” shall be returned and the message content shall carry an instance of a specific topology entity type information within a topology domain. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message content may contain additional error information.

#### 6.1.4.5 Operation getAllRelationshipsForEntityId
The API Consumer uses this operation to query the relationships of an instance of a topology entity type in a topology domain Consumer ->> Producer: GET …/domains/{domainName}/entity- types/{entityTypeName}/entities/{entityId}/relationships Producer -->> Consumer: 200 OK (Relationships) The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP GET request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource (…/domains/{domainName}/entity-types/{entityTypeName}/entities/{entityId}/relationships) to query the relationships of an instance of a topology entity type within a topology domain. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP GET response. On success, “200 OK” shall be returned and the message content shall carry the relationships information of an instance of a topology entity type within in a topology domain. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message content may contain additional error information.

#### 6.1.4.6 Operation getTopologyRelationshipTypes
The API Consumer uses this operation to query all topology relationship types in a topology domain. Consumer ->> Producer: GET …/domains/{domainName}/relationship-types Producer -->> Consumer: 200 OK (RelationshipTypes) The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP GET request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource (…/domains/{domainName}/relationship-types) to query all the topology relationship types of a topology entity within a topology domain. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP GET response. On success, “200 OK” shall be returned and the message content shall carry the topology relationship types information. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message content may contain additional error information.

#### 6.1.4.7 Operation getRelationshipsByType
The API Consumer uses this operation to query all topology relationship instances of a topology relationship type in a topology domain. Consumer ->> Producer: GET …/domains/{domainName}/relationship- types/{relationshipTypeName}/relationships Producer -->> Consumer: 200 OK (Relationships) The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP GET request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource (…/domains/{domainName}/relationship-types/{relationshipTypeName}/relationships) to query all topology relationship instances of a topology relationship type. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP GET response. On success, “200 OK” shall be returned and the message content shall carry an array of relationship information. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message content may contain additional error information.

#### 6.1.4.8 Operation getRelationshipById
The API Consumer uses this operation to query topology relationship instance of a topology relationship type in a topology domain. Consumer ->> Producer: GET …/domains/{domainName}/relationship- types/{relationshipTypeName}/relationships/{relationshipId} Producer -->> Consumer: 200 OK (Relationship) The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP GET request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource (…/domains/{domainName}/relationship-types/{relationshipTypeName}/relationships/{relationshipId}) to query topology relationship instance of a topology relationship type. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP GET response. On success, “200 OK” shall be returned and the message content shall carry relationship information of a topology relationship type. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message content may contain additional error information.

#### 6.1.4.9 Operation getSchemas
The API Consumer uses this operation to discover the available schemas. Consumer ->> Producer: GET …/schemas Producer -->> Consumer: 200 OK (Schemas) The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP GET request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource (…/schemas) to discover the available topology model schemas. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP GET response. On success, “200 OK” shall be returned and the message content shall carry a list of the available topology model schemas. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message content may contain additional error information.

#### 6.1.4.10 Operation getSchemaByName
The API Consumer uses this operation to get the schema by name. Consumer ->> Producer: GET …/schemas/{schemaName}/content Producer -->> Consumer: 200 OK The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP GET request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource (…/schemas/{schemaName}/content) to discover the topology model schema. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP GET response. On success, "200 OK" shall be returned and the payload body of the GET response shall contain the obtained resource representation. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message content may contain additional error information.

#### 6.1.4.11 Operation getUserDefinedSchema
The API Consumer uses this operation to discover the available user defined schemas. Consumer ->> Producer: GET …/user-defined-schemas Producer -->> Consumer: 200 OK (UserDefinedSchemas) The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP GET request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource (…/user-defined-schemas) to discover the available user defined schemas. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP GET response. On success, “200 OK” shall be returned and the message content shall carry a list of the available user defined schemas. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message content may contain additional error information.

#### 6.1.4.12 Operation createUserDefinedSchema
The API Consumer uses this operation to create new user defined schemas. Consumer ->> Producer: POST …/user-defined-schemas (MultipartFile) Producer -->> Consumer: 201 Created (UserDefinedSchema) The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP POST request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource (…/user-defined-schemas) under which the new user defined schema is requested to be created. The message content shall carry a MultipartFile structure. 2. The API Producer shall generate the user defined schema name and construct the URI for the created resource. The API Producer shall return the HTTP POST response. On success, “201 Created” shall be returned. The message shall carry a UserDefinedSchema structure that represents the new resource, and the "Location" header shall contain the URI of the created resource. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message content may contain additional error information.

#### 6.1.4.13 Operation deleteUserDefinedSchema
The API Consumer uses this operation to delete a user defined schema.
> NOTE: Only user defined schemas can be deleted by the TE&IV API Consumer.
Consumer ->> Producer: DELETE …/user-defined-schemas/{schemaName} Producer -->> Consumer: 204 No Content The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP DELETE request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource (…/user-defined-schemas/{schemaName}) to delete the user defined schema. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP DELETE response. On success, “204 No Content” shall be returned. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message content may contain additional error information.

#### 6.1.4.14 Operation getUserDefinedSchemaByName
The API Consumer uses this operation to get the user defined schema by name. Consumer ->> Producer: GET …/user-defined-schemas/{schemaName}/content Producer -->> Consumer: 200 OK The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP GET request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource (…/user-defined-schemas/{schemaName}/content) to discover the content of the user defined schema by specific schema name. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP GET response. On success, “200 OK” shall be returned and the message content shall carry a string. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message content may contain additional error information.

#### 6.1.4.15 Operation updateClassifier
The API Consumer uses this operation to update or delete specified entities and/or relationships with classifiers. Consumer ->> Producer: POST …/manage-classifiers (Classifier) Producer -->> Consumer: 204 No Content The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP POST request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource (…/manage-classifiers) to update or delete the classifiers associated to the topology entities and topology relationships. The message content shall carry a Classifier structure. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP POST response. On success, “204 No Content” shall be returned. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message content may contain additional error information.

#### 6.1.4.16 Operation updateDecorator
The API Consumer uses this operation to update or delete specified entities and/or relationships with decorators. Consumer ->> Producer: POST …/manage-decorators (Decorator) Producer -->> Consumer: 204 No Content The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP POST request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource (…/manage-decorators) to update or delete the decorators associated to the topology entities and topology relationship. The message content shall carry a Decorator structure. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP POST response. On success, “204 No Content ” shall be returned. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message content may contain additional error information.

### 6.1.5 Resources

#### 6.1.5.1 Overview
The following clause defines the resources for the Topology inventory API.

#### 6.1.5.2 Resource: "All topology domains"

##### 6.1.5.2.1 Description
The resource represents the available topology domains. Only the methods defined in clause 6.1.5.2.3 shall be supported by this resource.

##### 6.1.5.2.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/topology-inventory/<apiVersion>/domains The resource URI variables supported by the resource are defined in Table 6.1.5.2.2-1. Name Definition apiRoot See clause 5.2. apiVersion See clause 6.1.2.

##### 6.1.5.2.3 Resource Standard Methods
6.1.5.2.3.1 GET This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table 6.1.5.2.3.1-1, URI header parameters specified in 6.1.5.2.3.1-2, the request data structure specified in the table 6.1.5.2.3.1-3 and the response data structure and response code specified in the table 6.1.5.2.3.1-4. Name Data type P Cardinality Description offsetParam integer O 0..1 This query parameter allows you to omit a specified number of entries before the beginning of the result set for pagination. limitParam integer O 0..1 The query parameter provides to limit the number of entries returned for a request for pagination. Name Data type P Cardinality Description Accept string M 1 This header is used to specify response media types that are acceptable. The default type acceptable for this header is "application/json" Data Type P Cardinality Description N/A There is no object in the message content of the GET request Data Type P Cardinality Response Description codes Domains M 1 200 OK The operation was successful. The message content of the GET response carries a domains structure. ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx The operation has failed, and the message content may contain Problem description details.

##### 6.1.5.2.4 Resource Custom Operations
None.

#### 6.1.5.3 Resource: "All topology entity types in a topology domain"

##### 6.1.5.3.1 Description
The resource represents the available topology entity types in a topology domain. Only the methods defined in clause 6.1.5.3.3 shall be supported by this resource.

##### 6.1.5.3.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/topology-inventory/<apiVersion>/domains/{domainName}/entity-types The resource URI variables supported by the resource are defined in Table 6.1.5.3.2-1. Name Definition apiRoot See clause 5.2 . apiVersion See clause 6.1.2. domainName Name of the Topology Domain.

##### 6.1.5.3.3 Resource Standard Methods
6.1.5.3.3.1 GET This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table 6.1.5.3.3.1-1, URI header parameters specified in 6.1.5.3.3.1-2, the request data structure specified in the table 6.1.5.3.3.1-3 and the response data structure and response code specified in the table 6.1.5.3.3.1-4. Name Data type P Cardinality Description offsetParam integer O 0..1 This query parameter allows you to omit a specified number of entries before the beginning of the result set for pagination. limitParam integer O 0..1 The query parameter provides to limit the number of entries returned for a request for pagination. Name Data type P Cardinality Description Accept string M 1 This header is used to specify response media types that are acceptable. The default type acceptable for this header is "application/json" Data Type P Cardinality Description N/A There is no object in the message content of the GET request Data Type P Cardinality Response Description codes EntityTypes M 1 200 OK The operation was successful. The message content of the GET response carries a EntityTypes structure. ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx The operation has failed, and the message content may contain Problem description details.

##### 6.1.5.3.4 Resource Custom Operations
None.

#### 6.1.5.4 Resource: "All instances of a topology entity type in a topology domain"

##### 6.1.5.4.1 Description
The resource represents all the available instances of a topology entity types in a topology domain. Only the methods defined in clause 6.1.5.4.3 shall be supported by this resource.

##### 6.1.5.4.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/topology-inventory/<apiVersion>/domains/{domainName}/entity-types/{entityTypeName}/entities The resource URI variables supported by the resource are defined in Table 6.1.5.4.2-1. Name Definition apiRoot See clause 5.2 . apiVersion See clause 6.1.2. domainName Name of the Topology Domain. entityTypeName Name of a topology entity in a topology domain.

##### 6.1.5.4.3 Resource Standard Methods
6.1.5.4.3.1 GET This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table 6.1.5.4.3.1-1, URI header parameters specified in table 6.1.5.4.3.1-2 the request data structure specified in the table 6.1.5.4.3.1-3 and the response data structure and response code specified in the table 6.1.5.4.3.1-4. Name Data type P Cardinality Description targetFilter string O 0..1 This query parameter specifies the entity type and attributes to be returned in the REST response. scopeFilter string O 0..1 This query parameter specifies the attributes to match on for specific Topology Entities for which the data is to be produced. offsetParam integer O 0..1 This query parameter allows you to omit a specified number of entries before the beginning of the result set for pagination. limitParam integer O 0..1 The query parameter provides to limit the number of entries returned for a request for pagination. Name Data type P Cardinality Description Accept string M 1 This header is used to specify response media types that are acceptable. The default type acceptable for this header is "application/yang.data+json" Data Type P Cardinality Description N/A There is no object in the message content of the GET request Data Type P Cardinality Response Description codes Entities M 1 200 OK The operation was successful. The message content of the GET response carries an Entities structure. ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx The operation has failed, and the message content may contain Problem description details.

##### 6.1.5.4.4 Resource Custom Operations
None.

#### 6.1.5.5 Resource: "Individual instance of a topology entity type in a topology domain"

##### 6.1.5.5.1 Description
The resource represents the individual available instances of a topology entity types in a topology domain. Only the methods defined in clause 6.1.5.5.3 shall be supported by this resource.

##### 6.1.5.5.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/topology-inventory/<apiVersion>/domain/{domainName}/entity-types/{entityTypeName}/entities/{entityId} The resource URI variables supported by the resource are defined in Table 6.1.5.5.2-1. Name Definition apiRoot See clause 5.2 . apiVersion See clause 6.1.2. domainName Name of the Topology Domain. entityTypeName Name of a topology entity in a topology domain. entityId Identifier of an individual topology entity.

##### 6.1.5.5.3 Resource Standard Methods
6.1.5.5.3.1 GET This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table 6.1.5.5.3.1-1, URI header parameters specified in table 6.1.5.5.3.1-2, the request data structure specified in the table 6.1.5.5.3.1-3 and the response data structure and response code specified in the table 6.1.5.5.3.1-4. Data Type P Cardinality Description N/A There is no object in the message content of the GET request Name Data type P Cardinality Description Accept string M 1 This header is used to specify response media types that are acceptable. The default type acceptable for this header is "application/yang.data+json" Data Type P Cardinality Description N/A There is no object in the message content of the GET request Data Type P Cardinality Response Description codes EntityInstance M 1 200 OK The operation was successful. The message content of the GET response carries an EntityInstance which is an encapsulated object reference to the data model for schema definition of Topology Entity. (NOTE). ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx The operation has failed, and the message content may contain Problem description details.
> NOTE: The attributes of a Topology Entity defined in the TE&IV Information Model [9] may be represented in multiple
data modelling languages. Irrespective of the data modelling language specified in the Data Model specification [10], in the response, these attributes are encoded in JSON format. For example, attributes of the Topology Entity in the TE&IV Information Model [9] are represented in the YANG data modelling language. This YANG definition will be encoded as JSON using RFC 7951 and is encapsulated in this object.

##### 6.1.5.5.4 Resource Custom Operations
None.

#### 6.1.5.6 Resource: "All relationships of an instance of a topology entity type in a topology
domain"

##### 6.1.5.6.1 Description
The resource represents the relationships of an instance of a topology entity types in a topology domain. Only the methods defined in clause 6.1.5.6.3 shall be supported by this resource.

##### 6.1.5.6.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/topology-inventory/<apiVersion>/domains/{domainName}/entity- types/{entityTypeName}/entities/{entityId}/relationships The resource URI variables supported by the resource are defined in Table 6.1.5.6.2-1. Name Definition apiRoot See clause 5.2 . apiVersion See clause 6.1.2. domainName Name of the Topology Domain. entityTypeName Name of a topology entity in a topology domain. entityId Identifier of an individual topology entity.

##### 6.1.5.6.3 Resource Standard Methods
6.1.5.6.3.1 GET This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table 6.1.5.6.3.1-1, URI header parameters specified in table 6.1.5.6.3.1-2, the request data structure specified in the table 6.1.5.6.3.1-3 and the response data structure and response code specified in the table 6.1.5.6.3.1-4. Name Data type P Cardinality Description offsetParam integer O 0..1 This query parameter allows you to omit a specified number of entries before the beginning of the result set for pagination. limitParam integer O 0..1 The query parameter provides to limit the number of entries returned for a request for pagination. targetFilter string O 0..1 This query parameter specifies the entity type and relationship to be returned in the REST response. scopeFilter string O 0..1 This query parameter specifies the attributes to match on for specific Topology Entity relationship for which the data is to be produced. Name Data type P Cardinality Description Accept string M 1 This header is used to specify response media types that are acceptable. The default type acceptable for this header is "application/yang.data+json" Data Type P Cardinality Description N/A There is no object in the message content of the GET request Data Type P Cardinality Response Description codes Relationships M 1 200 OK The operation was successful. The message content of the GET response carries a Relationships structure. ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx The operation has failed, and the message content may contain Problem description details.

##### 6.1.5.6.4 Resource Custom Operations
None.

#### 6.1.5.7 Resource: "All topology relationship types in a topology domain"

##### 6.1.5.7.1 Description
The resource represents all the topology relationship types in a topology domain. Only the methods defined in clause 6.1.5.7.3 shall be supported by this resource.

##### 6.1.5.7.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/topology-inventory/<apiVersion>/domains/{domainName}/relationship-types The resource URI variables supported by the resource are defined in Table 6.1.5.7.2-1. Name Definition apiRoot See clause 5.2 . apiVersion See clause 6.1.2. domainName Name of the Topology Domain.

##### 6.1.5.7.3 Resource Standard Methods
6.1.5.7.3.1 GET This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table 6.1.5.7.3.1-1, URI header parameters specified in table 6.1.5.7.3.1-2, the request data structure specified in the table 6.1.5.7.3.1-3 and the response data structure and response code specified in the table 6.1.5.7.3.1-4. Name Data type P Cardinality Description offsetParam integer O 0..1 This query parameter allows you to omit a specified number of entries before the beginning of the result set for pagination. limitParam integer O 0..1 The query parameter provides to limit the number of entries returned for a request for pagination. Name Data type P Cardinality Description Accept string M 1 This header is used to specify response media types that are acceptable. The default type acceptable for this header is "application/json" Data Type P Cardinality Description N/A There is no object in the message content of the GET request Data Type P Cardinality Response Description codes RelationshipTypes M 1 200 OK The operation was successful. The message content of the GET response carries a RelationshipTypes structure. ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx The operation has failed, and the message content may contain Problem description details.

##### 6.1.5.7.4 Resource Custom Operations
None.

#### 6.1.5.8 Resource: "All topology relationship instances of a topology relationship type"

##### 6.1.5.8.1 Description
The resource represents all the topology relationship instances of a topology relationship type in a topology domain. Only the methods defined in clause 6.1.5.8.3 shall be supported by this resource.

##### 6.1.5.8.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/topology-inventory/<apiVersion>/domains/{domainName}/relationship- types/{relationshipTypeName}/relationships The resource URI variables supported by the resource are defined in Table 6.1.5.8.2-1. Name Definition apiRoot See clause 5.2. apiVersion See clause 6.1.2. domainName Name of the Topology Domain. relationshipTypeName A topology relationship type name such as NF Deployment NF Relationship.

##### 6.1.5.8.3 Resource Standard Methods
6.1.5.8.3.1 GET This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table 6.1.5.8.3.1-1, URI header parameters specified in table 6.1.5.8.3.1-2, the request data structure specified in the table 6.1.5.8.3.1-3 and the response data structure and response code specified in the table 6.1.5.8.3.1-4. Name Data type P Cardinality Description offsetParam integer O 0..1 This query parameter allows you to omit a specified number of entries before the beginning of the result set for pagination. limitParam integer O 0..1 The query parameter provides to limit the number of entries returned for a request for pagination. targetFilter string O 0..1 This query parameter specifies the entity type and attributes to be returned in the REST response. scopeFilter string O 0..1 This query parameter specifies the attributes to match on for specific Topology Entities for which the data is to be produced. Name Data type P Cardinality Description Accept string M 1 This header is used to specify response media types that are acceptable. The default type acceptable for this header is "application/json" Data Type P Cardinality Description N/A There is no object in the message content of the GET request. Data Type P Cardinality Response Description codes Relationships M 1 200 OK The operation was successful. The message content of the GET response carries a Relationships structure. ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx The operation has failed, and the message content may contain Problem description details.

##### 6.1.5.8.4 Resource Custom Operations
None.

#### 6.1.5.9 Resource: "Individual topology relationship instance of a topology relationship
type"

##### 6.1.5.9.1 Description
The resource represents all the topology relationship instances of a topology relationship type in a topology domain. Only the methods defined in clause 6.1.5.9.3 shall be supported by this resource.

##### 6.1.5.9.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/topology-inventory/<apiVersion>/domains/{domainName}/relationship- types/{relationshipTypeName}/relationships/{relationshipId} The resource URI variables supported by the resource are defined in Table 6.1.5.9.2-1. Name Definition apiRoot See clause 5.2 . apiVersion See clause 6.1.2. domainName Name of the Topology Domain. relationshipTypeName A topology relationship type name. relationshipId An identifier of an individual topology relationship instance.

##### 6.1.5.9.3 Resource Standard Methods
6.1.5.9.3.1 GET This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table 6.1.5.9.3.1-1, URI header parameters specified in table 6.1.5.9.3.1-2, the request data structure specified in the table 6.1.5.9.3.1-3 and the response data structure and response code specified in the table 6.1.5.9.3.1-4. Data Type P Cardinality Description N/A There is no object in the message content of the GET request. Name Data type P Cardinality Description Accept string M 1 This header is used to specify response media types that are acceptable. The default type acceptable for this header is "application/yang.data+json". Data Type P Cardinality Description N/A There is no object in the message content of the GET request. Data Type P Cardinality Response Description codes Relationship M 1 200 OK The operation was successful. The message content of the GET response carries a Relationship instance which is an encapsulated object reference to the data model for schema definition of Topology Relationship. (NOTE). ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx The operation has failed, and the message content may contain Problem description details.
> NOTE: The attributes of a Topology Relationship defined in the TE&IV Information Model [9] may be represented in
multiple data modelling languages. Irrespective of the data modelling language specified in the Data Model specification [10], in the response, these attributes are encoded in JSON format. For example, attributes of the Topology Relationship in the TE&IV Information Model [9] are represented in the YANG data modelling language. This YANG definition will be encoded as JSON using RFC 7951 and is encapsulated in this object.

##### 6.1.5.9.4 Resource Custom Operations
None.

#### 6.1.5.10 Resource: "All topology model schemas"

##### 6.1.5.10.1 Description
The resource represents all the available topology schema. Only the methods defined in clause 6.1.5.10.3 shall be supported by this resource.

##### 6.1.5.10.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/topology-inventory/<apiVersion>/schemas The resource URI variables supported by the resource are defined in Table 6.1.5.10.2-1. Name Definition apiRoot See clause 5.2. apiVersion See clause 6.1.2.

##### 6.1.5.10.3 Resource Standard Methods
6.1.5.10.3.1 GET This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table 6.1.5.10.3.1-1, URI header parameters specified in 6.1.5.10.3.1-2, the request data structure specified in the table 6.1.5.10.3.1-3 and the response data structure and response code specified in the table 6.1.5.10.3.1-4. Name Data type P Cardinality Description domain string O 0..1 This query parameter allows you to specify the desired domain offsetParam integer O 0..1 This query parameter allows you to omit a specified number of entries before the beginning of the result set for pagination. limitParam integer O 0..1 The query parameter provides to limit the number of entries returned for a request for pagination. Name Data type P Cardinality Description Accept string M 1 This header is used to specify response media types that are acceptable. The default type acceptable for this header is "application/json" Data Type P Cardinality Description N/A There is no object in the message content of the GET request Data Type P Cardinality Response Description codes Schemas M 1 200 OK The operation was successful. The message content of the GET response carries a Schemas structure. ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx The operation has failed, and the message content may contain Problem description details.

##### 6.1.5.10.4 Resource Custom Operations
None.

#### 6.1.5.11 Resource: "Individual model schema content"

##### 6.1.5.11.1 Description
The resource represents the content of a schema instance. Only the methods defined in clause 6.1.5.11.3 shall be supported by this resource.

##### 6.1.5.11.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/topology-inventory/<apiVersion>/schemas/{schemaName}/content The resource URI variables supported by the resource are defined in Table 6.1.5.11.2-1. Name Definition apiRoot See clause 5.2. apiVersion See clause 6.1.2. schemaName Name of the topology schema

##### 6.1.5.11.3 Resource Standard Methods
6.1.5.11.3.1 GET This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table 6.1.5.11.3.1-1, URI header parameters specified in 6.1.5.11.3.1-2, the request data structure specified in the table 6.1.5.11.3.1-3 and the response data structure and response code specified in the table 6.1.5.11.3.1-4. Name Data type P Cardinality Description N/A Name Data type P Cardinality Description Accept string M 1 This header is used to specify response media types that are acceptable. The default type acceptable for this header is "text/plain" Data Type P Cardinality Description N/A Data Type P Cardinality Response Description codes string M 1 200 OK The operation was successful. The payload body of the GET response carries the Schema content. ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx The operation has failed, and the message content may contain Problem description details.

##### 6.1.5.11.4 Resource Custom Operations
None.

#### 6.1.5.12 Resource: "All user defined schemas"

##### 6.1.5.12.1 Description
The resource represents all the available user defined schema. Only the methods defined in clause 6.1.5.12.3 shall be supported by this resource.

##### 6.1.5.12.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/topology-inventory/<apiVersion>/user-defined-schemas The resource URI variables supported by the resource are defined in Table 6.1.5.12.2-1. Name Definition apiRoot See clause 5.2. apiVersion See clause 6.1.2.

##### 6.1.5.12.3 Resource Standard Methods
6.1.5.12.3.1 GET This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table 6.1.5.12.3.1-1, URI header parameters specified in 6.1.5.12.3.1-2, the request data structure specified in the table 6.1.5.12.3.1-3 and the response data structure and response code specified in the table 6.1.5.12.3.1-4. Name Data type P Cardinality Description offsetParam integer O 0..1 This query parameter allows you to omit a specified number of entries before the beginning of the result set for pagination. limitParam integer O 0..1 The query parameter provides to limit the number of entries returned for a request for pagination. Name Data type P Cardinality Description Accept string M 1 This header is used to specify response media types that are acceptable. The default type acceptable for this header is "application/json" Data Type P Cardinality Description N/A There is no object in the message content of the GET request Data Type P Cardinality Response Description codes UserDefinedSchemas M 1 200 OK The operation was successful. The payload body of the GET response carries a UserDefinedSchemas structure. ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx The operation has failed, and the message content may contain Problem description details. 6.1.5.12.3.2 POST This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table 6.1.5.12.3.2-1, URI header parameters specified in 6.1.5.12.3.2-2, the request data structure specified in the table 6.1.5.12.3.2-3 and the response data structure and response code specified in the table 6.1.5.12.3.2-4. Name Data type P Cardinality Description N/A Name Data type P Cardinality Description Accept string M 1 This header is used to specify response media types that are acceptable. The default type acceptable for this header is "application/json" Content-Type string M 1 This header is used to specify resource media types that are acceptable. The default type acceptable for this header is "multipart/form-data" as per RFC 7578 [x] Data Type P Cardinality Description MultipartFile M 1 Multipart file containing the user defined schema to be created. Data Type P Cardinality Response Description codes UserDefinedSchema M 1 201 The operation was successful. Created The message content of the POST response carries a UserDefinedSchema structure. ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx The operation has failed, and the message content may contain Problem description details. Data Type P Cardinality Description Location M 1 Contains the URI of the newly created “Individual User Defined Schema” resource as defined in clause 6.1.5.12

##### 6.1.5.12.4 Resource Custom Operations
None.

#### 6.1.5.13 Resource: "Individual user defined schema"

##### 6.1.5.13.1 Description
The resource represents an individual user defined schema. Only the methods defined in clause 6.1.5.13.3 shall be supported by this resource.

##### 6.1.5.13.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/topology-inventory/<apiVersion>/user-defined-schemas/{schemaName} The resource URI variables supported by the resource are defined in Table 6.1.5.13.2-1. Name Definition apiRoot See clause 5.2. apiVersion See clause 6.1.2. schemaName Name of user defined schema

##### 6.1.5.13.3 Resource Standard Methods
6.1.5.13.3.1 DELETE This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table 6.1.5.13.3.1-1, URI header parameters specified in 6.1.5.13.3.1-2, the request data structure specified in the table 6.1.5.13.3.1-3 and the response data structure and response code specified in the table 6.1.5.13.3.1-4. Name Data type P Cardinality Description N/A Name Data type P Cardinality Description Accept string M 1 This header is used to specify response media types that are acceptable. The default type acceptable for this header is "application/json" Data Type P Cardinality Description N/A Data Type P Cardinality Response Description codes N/A 204 No The operation was successful Content ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx The operation has failed, and the message content may contain Problem description details.

##### 6.1.5.13.4 Resource Custom Operations
None.

#### 6.1.5.14 Resource: "Individual user defined schema content"

##### 6.1.5.14.1 Description
The resource represents the content of a user defined schema instance. Only the methods defined in clause 6.1.5.14.3 shall be supported by this resource.

##### 6.1.5.14.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/topology-inventory/<apiVersion>/user-defined-schemas/{schemaName}/content The resource URI variables supported by the resource are defined in Table 6.1.5.14.2-1. Name Definition apiRoot See clause 5.2. apiVersion See clause 6.1.2. schemaName Name of the topology schema

##### 6.1.5.14.3 Resource Standard Methods
6.1.5.14.3.1 GET This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table 6.1.5.14.3.1-1, URI header parameters specified in 6.1.5.14.3.1-2, the request data structure specified in the table 6.1.5.14.3.1-3 and the response data structure and response code specified in the table 6.1.5.14.3.1-4. Name Data type P Cardinality Description N/A Name Data type P Cardinality Description Accept string M 1 This header is used to specify response media types that are acceptable. The default type acceptable for this header is "text/plain" Data Type P Cardinality Description N/A Data Type P Cardinality Response Description codes string M 1 200 OK The operation was successful. The payload body of the GET response carries the user defined schema content. ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx The operation has failed, and the message content may contain Problem description details.

##### 6.1.5.14.4 Resource Custom Operations
None.

### 6.1.6 Custom operations without associated resources

#### 6.1.6.1 Overview
The following clause defines the custom operations for the Topology Inventory API.

#### 6.1.6.2 Operation: manage-classifiers

##### 6.1.6.2.1 Description
This custom operation allows the API consumer to manage (add/remove) classifiers on entities and/or relationships.

##### 6.1.6.2.2 Operation Definition
Custom Operation URI: {apiRoot}/topology-inventory/<apiVersion>/manage-classifiers This operation shall support the URI header parameters specified in 6.1.6.2.2.1-1, the request data structure specified in the table 6.1.6.2.2.1-2 and the response data structure and response code specified in the table 6.1.6.2.2.1-3. Name Data type P Cardinality Description Accept string M 1 This header is used to specify response media types that are acceptable. The default type acceptable for this header is "application/json" Content-Type string M 1 This header is used to specify resource media types that are acceptable. The default type acceptable for this header is "application/json" Data Type P Cardinality Description Classifier M 1 Classifier Schema to update or delete the classifiers Data Type P Cardinality Response Description codes N/A 204 No The operation has succeeded. There is no Content message content ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx The operation has failed, and the message content may contain Problem description details.

#### 6.1.6.3 Operation: manage-decorators

##### 6.1.6.3.1 Description
This custom operation allows the API consumer to manage (add/remove) decorators on entities and/or relationships.

##### 6.1.6.3.2 Operation Definition
Custom Operation URI: {apiRoot}/topology-inventory/<apiVersion>/manage-decorators This operation shall support the URI header parameters specified in 6.1.6.3.2.1-1, the request data structure specified in the table 6.1.6.3.2.1-2 and the response data structure and response code specified in the table 6.1.6.3.2.1-3. Name Data type P Cardinality Description Accept string M 1 This header is used to specify response media types that are acceptable. The default type acceptable for this header is "application/json" Content-Type string M 1 This header is used to specify resource media types that are acceptable. The default type acceptable for this header is "application/json" Data Type P Cardinality Description Decorator M 1 Decorator Schema to update or delete the decorators Data Type P Cardinality Response Description codes N/A 204 No The operation has succeeded. There is no Content message content. ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx The operation has failed, and the message content may contain Problem description details.

### 6.1.7 Notifications
None.

### 6.1.8 Data model

#### 6.1.8.1 Structured data types

##### 6.1.8.1.1 Overview
The following clauses define the structured data types and their attributes to be used by the service API.

##### 6.1.8.1.2 Data type: Domains
The Domains data type represents domains. It contains the attributes defined in table 6.1.8.1.2-1. Attribute Name Data type P Cardinality Description items array(Domain) M 0..N A list of domains.

##### 6.1.8.1.3 Data type: Domain
The Domain data type represents the properties of a topology domain. It contains the attributes defined in table 6.1.8.1.3-1. Attribute Name Data type P Cardinality Description domainName string M 1 A name of the topology domain. entityTypes Href M 1 A reference to entity types of the Topology Entity. relationshipTypes Href M 1 A reference to relationship types of the Topology Relationship.

##### 6.1.8.1.4 Data type: EntityTypes
The EntityTypes data type represents entity type within a topology domain. It contains the attributes defined table 6.1.8.1.4-1. Attribute Name Data type P Cardinality Description items array(EntityType) M 1..N An entity type within a topology domain.

##### 6.1.8.1.5 Data type: EntityType
The EntityType data type represents a type within a topology domain. Attribute Name Data type P Cardinality Description entityTypeName string M 1 A name of a topology Entity Type. entities Href M 1 A reference to topology entities of the specific topology Entity Type

##### 6.1.8.1.6 Data type: Entities
The Entities data type represents all instances of a specific topology entity type within a topology domain. It contains the attributes defined in table 6.1.8.1.6-1. Attribute Name Data type P Cardinality Description items array(object) M 1..N Topology Entity instances encapsulated as array of objects and refers to the data model for schema definition of Topology Entity. (NOTE).
> NOTE: The attributes of a Topology Entity defined in the TE&IV Information Model [9] may be represented in
multiple data modelling languages. Irrespective of the data modelling language specified in the Data Model specification [10], in the response, these attributes are encoded in JSON format. For example, attributes of the Topology Entity in the TE&IV Information Model [9] are represented in the YANG data modelling language. This YANG definition will be encoded as JSON using RFC 7951 and is encapsulated in this object.

##### 6.1.8.1.7 Data type: Relationships
The Relationships data type represents relationships information of an instance of a topology entity type within a topology domain. It contains the attributes defined in table 6.1.8.1.7-1. Attribute Name Data type P Cardinality Description items array(object) M 1..N Encapsulated object reference to the data model for schema definition of Topology Relationship. (NOTE).
> NOTE: The attributes of the Topology Relationship of a Topology Entity defined in the TE&IV Information Model
[9] may be represented in multiple data modelling languages. Irrespective of the data modelling language specified in the Data Model specification [10], in the response, these attributes are encoded in JSON format. For example, attributes of the Topology Relationship of a Topology Entity in a TE&IV REL- RAN-Cloud domain in the TE&IV Information Model [9] are represented in the YANG data modelling language. This YANG definition will be encoded as JSON using RFC 7951 and is encapsulated in this object.

##### 6.1.8.1.8 Data type: RelationshipTypes
The Relationships data type represents all the relationships information of a topology entity type within a topology domain. It contains the attributes defined in table 6.1.8.1.8-1. Attribute Name Data type P Cardinality Description items array(RelationshipType) M 1..N All the relationship type information within a topology domain.

##### 6.1.8.1.9 Data type: RelationshipType
The relationship information in a topology domain. It contains the attributes defined in table 6.1.8.1.9-1. Attribute Name Data type P Cardinality Description relationshipTypeName string M 1 Name of a Topology Relationship. relationships Href M 1 URI to the relationships of the Topology Relationship Type.

##### 6.1.8.1.10 Data type: Href
This attribute provide reference to entity type and relationship type. It contains the attributes defined in table 6.1.8.1.10-1. Attribute Name Data type P Cardinality Description href string M 1 The format of the string according to IETF RFC 3986 [6].

##### 6.1.8.1.11 Data type: Schemas
The Schema data type represents a topology or user defined schema. It contains the attributes defined in table 6.1.8.1.11-1. Attribute Name Data type P Cardinality Description items array(Schema) M 1..N List of schemas.

##### 6.1.8.1.12 Data type: Schema
The Schema data type represents a topology model or user defined schema. It contains the attributes defined in table 6.1.8.1.12- 1. Attribute Name Data type P Cardinality Description name string M 1 Name of the schema domain string M 0..1 Domain where schema is set. revision string M 1 Revision date of the YANG schema, as defined in the module’s revision statement. content Href M 1 URI to the schema content. Data type is defined in clause 6.1.8.1.10.

##### 6.1.8.1.13 Data type: UserDefinedSchemas
The UserDefinedSchema data type represents a user defined schema. It contains the attributes defined in table 6.1.8.1.13-1. Attribute Name Data type P Cardinality Description items array(UserDefinedSchema) M 1..N List of user defined schemas.

##### 6.1.8.1.14 Data type: UserDefinedSchema
The UserDefinedSchema data type represents a user defined schema. It contains the attributes defined in table 6.1.8.1.14-1. Attribute Name Data type P Cardinality Description name string M 1 Name of the user defined schema revision string M 1 Revision date of the YANG schema, as defined in the module’s revision statement. content Href M 1 URI to the schema content. Data type is defined in clause 6.1.8.1.10.

##### 6.1.8.1.15 Data type: MultipartFile
The MultipartFile data type represents a Multipart File. It contains the attributes defined in table 6.1.8.1.15-1. Attribute Name Data type P Cardinality Description file string M 1 File containing a schema in YANG format.

##### 6.1.8.1.16 Data type: Classifier
The Classifier data type represents a classifier. It contains the attributes defined in table 6.1.8.1.16-1. Attribute Name Data type P Cardinality Description operation ENUM M 1 Indicates whether the classifier is to be merged or deleted. Allowed values: merge, delete classifiers array(String) M 1..N The strings to be used as classifiers entityIds array(String) M 0..N Ids of the relationships to be classified relationshipIds array(String) M 0..N Ids of the relationships to be classified

##### 6.1.8.1.17 Data type: Decorator
The Decorator data type represents a decorator. It contains the attributes defined in table 6.1.8.1.17-1. Attribute Name Data type P Cardinality Description operation ENUM M 1 Indicates whether the decorator is to be merged or deleted Allowed values: merge, delete decorators AttributeValuePair M 1..N The key-value pairs to be used as decorators. Allowed values: Any string, integer, or boolean entityIds array(String) M 0..N Ids of the entities to be decorated relationshipIds array(String) M 0..N Ids of the relationships to be decorated

#### 6.1.8.2 Simple data types and enumerations
The following clause defines simple data types and enumerations that can be referenced from data structures defined in the previous clauses.

##### 6.1.8.2.1 Simple data types
For this service API, no simple data types are defined in the present document

##### 6.1.8.2.2 Enumerations
For this service API, no enumerations are defined in the present document.

### 6.1.9 Error Handling

#### 6.1.9.1 General
For the Topology Inventory API, HTTP error responses shall be supported as specified in clause 4.8 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [3]. Protocol errors and application errors specified in table 5.2.7.2-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [2] shall be supported for an HTTP method if the corresponding HTTP status codes are specified as mandatory for that HTTP method in table 5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [2]. In addition, the requirements in the following clauses are applicable for the Topology Inventory API.

#### 6.1.9.2 Protocol Errors
No specific protocol errors are defined in the present document.

#### 6.1.9.3 Application Errors
No additional application errors defined in the present document.


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG10.TS.TE&IV-CIMI.0-R004-v05.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG10.TS.TE&IV-CIMI.0-R004.v05.00 Technical Specification O-RAN Work Group 10 (OAM for O-RAN) and Interface Specification - Stage 2"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in [i.1] and the following apply: Information Model: a representation of concepts and the relationships, constraints, rules, and operations to specify data semantics for a chosen domain of discourse, it specifies relations between objects, can provide sharable, stable, and organized structure of information requirements or knowledge for the domain context. Namespace: a logical grouping of named elements specified, to prevent name collisions across named elements imported and associated from other specifications to support the independent lifecycle of its representation in the TE&IV Information Model. Topology Entity: is a modelling construct that represents TE&IV resources useful to a Topology and Inventory use case [1]. Topology Relationship: is a modelling construct that represents the relationship between Topology Entities useful to a Topology and Inventory use case [1]. Domain: a logical grouping of Topology Entities and/or Topology Relationships.

## 3.2 Symbols
Void

## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply: TEC Topology Entity Class TRC Topology Relationship Class

# 4 TE&IV Information Models

## 4.1 Introduction
The TE&IV Information Models described in this specification exposes the Topology Entities and Topology Relationships of the TE&IV resources as defined in [1].

## 4.2 TE&IV Information Modeling Guidelines

### 4.2.1 Modeling approach, Unified Modeling Language (UML)
The TE&IV Information Models shall use the Unified Modeling Language™ (UML®) version 2.5.1 [3] from the Object Management Group (OMG). UML provides a rich set of concepts, graphical notations, and model elements to model distributive systems. 3GPP TS 32.156 [2] provides the necessary and sufficient set of UML notations and model elements, including the ones built by the UML extension mechanism <<stereotype>> to model network management systems and their managed nodes. These conventions are applied to the TE&IV Information Model. The TE&IV Information Model also defines UML notation, model elements and <<stereotypes>> which shall be used to model behaviours of the Topology Entity and Topology Relationship. The TE&IV Information Model uses embedded PlantUML for diagraming and the relationships are modeled using UML Class diagram conventions. O-RAN TE&IV Information Models shall also follow methodology documented in 3GPP TS 32.160 [4] Clause 5.2.

#### 4.2.1.1 Model elements and notation

##### 4.2.1.1.1 General
The UML graphical notation in this document is only used to represent the Topology Entity and Topology Relationship model elements. UML properties as defined in [3] clause 9.5 are referred in this document and shall be used only for TE&IV Information Model.

##### 4.2.1.1.2 Basic model elements
UML [3] has defined a number of basic model elements. This subclause lists the subset selected for use in TE&IV Information Model. The characteristics defined in UML [3] clause 11.4 is applicable to TE&IV Information Model. However, in this specification, classes may or may not have attributes and the graphical notation of a class may show a suppressed attribute (middle) compartment even if the class has attributes, as shown in figure below. The operation (bottom) compartment is also suppressed.

##### 4.2.1.1.3 Attribute
4.2.1.1.3.1 Description In UML [3], an attribute is a typed element of a class that is represented by a property. The properties listed in this section represents the attributes of a Topology Entity and Topology Relationship class. Model when re-using the attribute properties specified in 3GPP TS 32.156 [2] clause 5.2.1. Property name TE&IV Adaptations type This property and its description, legal values shall be supported allowedValues This property and its description, legal values shall be supported defaultValue This property and its description, legal values shall be supported multiplicity This property and its description, legal values shall be supported isOrdered This property and its description, legal values shall be supported isUnique This property and its description, legal values shall be supported isNullable Not required to be supported passedById This property and its description, legal values shall be supported lifecycleStatus Not required to be supported isInvariant This property and its description, legal values shall be supported isWritable This property and its description, legal values shall be supported. However, A "isWritable: True" property might be restricted by access control. isReadable This property and its description, legal values shall be supported isNotifyable This property and its description, legal values shall be supported supportQualifier This property and its description, legal values shall be supported 4.2.1.1.3.2 Example This example shows three attributes, i.e., x, y,and z, listed in the attribute (the second) compartment of the class. However, as mentioned in 4.2.1.1.2, the attribute compartment (middle) can be suppressed. 4.2.1.1.3.3 Name style As defined in clause 5.2.1.3 of 3GPP TS 32.156 [2].

##### 4.2.1.1.4 Association Relationship
4.2.1.1.4.1 Description An association relationship class is a modelling construct that represents potentially complex series of associations that may cross domain boundaries. These classes are identifiable, searchable, have attributes and a record of the entities (and potentially configuration/associations) that make up their source. Association relationship classes are appropriate for use to show a relationship between different Topology Entities [see clause 4.2.1.1.2] through the Topology Relationship class [see clause 4.2.1.1.3]. Each association relationship class has aSide and bSide relationships, multiplicity, and navigability as shown in the example clause 4.2.1.1.4.2. For a Topology Relationship, the following rules apply: 1. The Topology Relationship class name shall have the form “<X>_{REL}_<Y>”, where <X> represents the TEC at the aSide of the relationship, <Y> represents the TEC at the bSide of the relationship, and {REL} is a transient verb representing the relationship between <X> and <Y>. e.g., NFDeployment_serves_ODUFunction. 2. The aSide is considered the originating side of the relationship. The bSide is considered the terminating side of the relationship. The order of aSide and bSide is of importance and shall not be changed once defined. 3. The Topology Relationship is a bi-directional relationship which indicates the navigability from either the aSide or bSide of the associated Topology Entity. 4.2.1.1.4.2 Example For TE&IV Information model, the example (Figure 4.2.1.1.4.2-1) shows a bi-directional association. In this example, both Topology Entity classes (AbcFunction and XyzFunction) are related through a separate relationship class named Abc_REL_Xyz. By default, the aSide of the relationship is considered originating when relating its associated Topology Entity classes. However, the figure 4.2.1.1.4.2-1 can also be represented in a simpler form with only the relationship class name without mentioning association names, as shown in the below figure 4.2.1.1.4.2-2. 4.2.1.1.4.3 Name style The name shall use the same style as used in << TopologyRelationshipClass >> clause 4.2.1.2.3.3.

##### 4.2.1.1.5 Abstract class
4.2.1.1.5.1 Description An abstract class is a generalized representation of Topology Entity and Topology Relationship classes. An abstract class cannot be instantiated. This modelled element has the same properties as class. See 4.2.1.1.2. 4.2.1.1.5.2 Example This example (Figure 4.2.1.1.5-1) shows that AbcFunction_ of stereotype TopologyEntityClass is an abstract class. It is a generalization of both AbcFunction1 and AbcFunction2. This example (Figure 4.2.1.1.5-2) shows that XyzFunction_ of stereotype TopologyRelationshipClass is an abstract class. It is a generalization of both XyzFunction1 and XyzFunction2. 4.2.1.1.5.3 Name style The name shall use the same style as used in TopologyEntityClass and TopologyRelationshipClass as specified in clauses 4.2.1.2.2.3 and 4.2.1.2.3.3. The name shall be in italics and its last character shall be an underscore.

#### 4.2.1.2 Stereotype

##### 4.2.1.2.1 Description
Subclause 4.2.1 listed the UML defined basic model elements. UML defined a stereotype concept allowing the specification of simple or complex user-defined model elements. This subclause lists all allowable stereotypes for TE&IV Information Model. The names of stereotypes shall be chosen such that they do not clash with any stereotype defined in O-RAN. The characteristics defined in subclause 5.3.0 of 3GPP TS 32.156 [2] is applicable to TE&IV Information Model elements i.e, as per the clause 5.3.0 of 3GPP TS 32.156 [2] “For each stereotype model element listed, there are three parts. The first part contains its description. The second part contains its graphical notation examples, and the third part contains the rule, if any, recommended for labelling or naming it”.

##### 4.2.1.2.2 <<TopologyEntityClass>>
4.2.1.2.2.1 Description The << TopologyEntityClass >> is identical to UML class [3] clause 11.4.3.1 which specifies a Topology Entity Resource including properties, attributes and allows inheritance but it does not include/define methods or operations. 4.2.1.2.2.2 Example This example (figure 4.2.1.2.2.2-1) shows a class AbcFunction << TopologyEntityClass >>. This example (figure 4.2.1.2.2.2-2) shows an abstract class AbcFunction_ << TopologyEntityClass >>. 4.2.1.2.2.3 Name style For << TopologyEntityClass >> name, use the same style as defined in clause 5.3.2.3 of 3GPP TS 32.156 [2].

##### 4.2.1.2.3 <<TopologyRelationshipClass>>
4.2.1.2.3.1 Description The <<TopologyRelationshipClass>> is identical to UML class [3] clause 11.4.3.1 which specifies a Topology Relationship between different Topology Entities including properties, attributes and allows multiple inheritance but it does not include/define methods or operations. 4.2.1.2.3.2 Example This example shows a class AbcXyzRelation <<TopologyRelationshipClass>>. This example shows an abstract class AbcXyzRelation_ <<TopologyRelationshipClass>>. 4.2.1.2.3.3 Name style For <<TopologyRelationshipClass>> name, use the same style as defined in clause 5.3.2.3 of 3GPP TS 32.156 [2].

### 4.2.2 Modeling guidelines
The TE&IV Information Models references concepts from each of the other O-RAN Information Model Namespaces by adding and removing attributes, entities, and relationships to serve the needs of the SMO use cases and services. TE&IV Information Models use multiple separate Namespaces to support independent lifecycle of loosely coupled topology and inventory concepts. The definitions and mapping involved with the TE&IV resources created within O-RAN TE&IV shall follow the below mentioned guidelines:
- shall be defined in a TE&IV namespace
- shall follow the 3GPP style when defining its identity and attributes [5]
- shall maintain a standard mapping to existing O-RAN definitions within O-RAN namespaces
- if it is a 1:1 mapping with other namespace resource, not limited to O-RAN,
o the resource name shall be reused exactly o the identities used in the TE&IV resources shall encapsulate the type of the instance identifier and the instance identifier of the resource defined in other source namespaces
- if it is a 1:N mapping with other namespace resource, not limited to O-RAN,
o the resource name shall begin with O-RAN prefix “ORT-” o the identities used in the TE&IV resources shall be generated within TE&IV and represented using a TE&IV specified type of the instance identifier and the generated instance identifier of the resource o the generated identities to map the TE&IV instance identifier to the source shall be preserved along with the identity of the source.

## 4.3 TE&IV Information Model Definitions

### 4.3.1 Namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV.RAN

#### 4.3.1.1 Namespace overview
This namespace contains the Topology Entities and Topology Relationship in the RAN Logical domain, which represents the functional capability of the deployed RAN that are relevant to realise use cases of TE&IV Service Consumer as specified in [1].

#### 4.3.1.2 Imported associated information

##### 4.3.1.2.1 Imported information entities and local labels
Imported information entities and local labels is not defined in the present version of the document.

##### 4.3.1.2.2 Associated information entities and local labels
Label reference Local label TS 28.541 [5], IOC, GNBDUFunction GNBDUFunction TS 28.541 [5], IOC, GNBCUCPFunction GNBCUCPFunction TS 28.541 [5], IOC, GNBCUUPFunction GNBCUUPFunction

#### 4.3.1.3 Class diagram

##### 4.3.1.3.1 Relationships
Relationships are not defined in the present version of the document.

##### 4.3.1.3.2 Inheritance
skin rose hide empty members set namespaceSeparator none namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV { abstract class TopologyEntity_ } namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV.RAN { abstract class ORANNetworkFunction_ class ORUFunction class ODUFunction class OCUCPFunction class OCUUPFunction class NearRTRICFunction TopologyEntity_ <|-d- ORANNetworkFunction_ ORANNetworkFunction_ <|-- ORUFunction ORANNetworkFunction_ <|-- ODUFunction ORANNetworkFunction_ <|-- OCUCPFunction ORANNetworkFunction_ <|-- OCUUPFunction ORANNetworkFunction_ <|-- NearRTRICFunction }

#### 4.3.1.4 Class definitions

##### 4.3.1.4.1 ORUFunction
4.3.1.4.1.1 Definitions This class provides the TE&IV resource representation of O-RU O-RAN Network Function using the equivalent concept as defined in clause 5 of O-RAN.WG1.OAD [6]. 4.3.1.4.1.2 Attributes The ORUFunction TEC includes the attributes inherited from ORANNetworkFunction_ and have the following attributes: Attribute Name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable oruId M T F F T 4.3.1.4.1.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.3.1.4.1.4 Notifications There is no notification defined. 4.3.1.4.1.5 State diagram None.

##### 4.3.1.4.2 NearRTRICFunction
4.3.1.4.2.1 Definitions This class provides the TE&IV resource representation of Near-RT RIC O-RAN Network Function using the equivalent concept as defined in clause 5 of O-RAN.WG1.OAD [6]. 4.3.1.4.2.2 Attributes The NearRTRICFunction TEC includes the topology attributes inherited from ORANNetworkFunction_ and have the following attributes: Attribute Name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable pLMNId M T F F T nearRtRicId M T F F T 4.3.1.4.2.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.3.1.4.2.4 Notifications There is no notification defined. 4.3.1.4.2.5 State diagram None.

##### 4.3.1.4.3 OCUCPFunction
4.3.1.4.3.1 Definitions This class provides the TE&IV resource representation of O-CU-CP Network Function using the equivalent concept as defined in clause 5 of O-RAN TS OAD [6].
> NOTE: The management characteristics of the O-CU-CP O-RAN NF is represented by the IOC GNBCUCPFunction as
specified in 3GPP NR NRM model, as per 3GPP TS 28.541 [5]. 4.3.1.4.3.2 Attributes The OCUCPFunction TEC includes the attributes inherited from ORANNetworkFunction_ and have the following attributes: Attribute Name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable gNBCUName O T F F T gNBId M T F F T gNBIdLength M T F F T pLMNId M T F F T 4.3.1.4.3.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.3.1.4.3.4 Notifications There is no notification defined. 4.3.1.4.3.5 State diagram None.

##### 4.3.1.4.4 OCUUPFunction
4.3.1.4.4.1 Definitions This class provides the TE&IV resource representation of O-CU-UP Network Function using the equivalent concept as defined in clause 5 of O-RAN.WG1.OAD [6].
> NOTE: The management characteristics of the O-CU-UP O-RAN NF is represented by the IOC GNBCUUPFunction as
specified in 3GPP NR NRM model, as per 3GPP TS 28.541 [5]. 4.3.1.4.4.2 Attributes The OCUUPFunction TEC includes the attributes inherited from ORANNetworkFunction_ and have the following attributes: Attribute Name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable gNBId M T F F T gNBIdLength M T F F T pLMNIdList M T F F T 4.3.1.4.4.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.3.1.4.4.4 Notifications There is no notification defined. 4.3.1.4.4.5 State diagram None.

##### 4.3.1.4.5 ODUFunction
4.3.1.4.5.1 Definitions This class provides the TE&IV resource representation of O-DU Network Function using the equivalent concept as defined in clause 5 of O-RAN.WG1.OAD [6].
> NOTE: The management characteristics of the O-DU O-RAN NF is represented by the IOC GNBDUFunction as specified in
3GPP NR NRM model, as per 3GPP TS 28.541 [5]. 4.3.1.4.5.2 Attributes The ODUFunction TEC includes the attributes inherited from ORANNetworkFunction_ and have the following attributes: Attribute Name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable gNBDUId M T F F T gNBId M T F F T gNBIdLength M T F F T 4.3.1.4.5.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.3.1.4.5.4 Notifications There is no notification defined. 4.3.1.4.5.5 State diagram None.

##### 4.3.1.4.6 ORANNetworkFunction_
4.3.1.4.6.1 Definitions This abstract class is provided for sub-classing only and is used to generalize the entity classes in this namespace. 4.3.1.4.6.2 Attributes The ORANNetworkFunction_ includes the attributes inherited from TopologyEntity_ in the ORAN.SMO.TEIV namespace. 4.3.1.4.6.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.3.1.4.6.4 Notifications There is no notification defined. 4.3.1.4.6.5 State diagram None.

#### 4.3.1.5 Attribute definitions

##### 4.3.1.5.1 Attribute properties
The following table defines the properties of attributes specified in the present document. Attribute Name Documentation and Allowed Values Properties Source Domain gNBCUName Name of gNB-CU, see subclause 4.4.1 of 3GPP TS 28.541 [5]. type: String O1 multiplicity: 1 allowedValues: Not applicable isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: None gNBDUId Unique identifier for the gNB-DU at least within a gNB-CU, see type: Integer O1 subclause 4.4.1 of 3GPP TS 28.541 [5]. multiplicity: 1 isOrdered: N/A allowedValues: Not applicable isUnique: N/A defaultValue: None gNBId Identity of gNB within a PLMN, see subclause 4.4.1 of 3GPP TS type: Integer O1 28.541 [5]. multiplicity: 1 isOrdered: N/A allowedValues: 0..4294967295 isUnique: N/A defaultValue: None gNBIdLength Length of gNBId bit string representation, see subclause 4.4.1 of type: Integer O1 3GPP TS 28.541 [5]. multiplicity: 1 isOrdered: N/A allowedValues: 22 .. 32 isUnique: N/A defaultValue: None nearRTRICID The identifier of Near-RT RIC as defined in O-RAN.WG3.E2AP [12], type: Integer O1 clause 9.2.4 multiplicity: 1 isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: None pLMNId Identity of the PLMN, see subclause 4.4.1 of 3GPP TS 28.541 [5]. type: PLMNId O1 multiplicity: 1 isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: None oruId Identity of the O-RU as discovered from the source domain based on type: String O1 (Hierarchical) M-Plane architecture model as defined in O-RAN TS [15] multiplicity: 1 O1, Open FH M- isOrdered: N/A Plane (Hybrid) Note: The oruId is assumed to be available in TE&IV. isUnique: N/A defaultValue: None pLMNIdList List of unique identities for PLMN, see subclause 4.4.1 of 3GPP TS type: PLMNId O1 28.658 [13]. multiplicity: 1..12 isOrdered: False isUnique: True isWritable: False defaultValue: None

### 4.3.2 Namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV.Cloud

#### 4.3.2.1 Namespace overview
This namespace contains the Topology Entities and Topology Relationship in the O-CLOUD domain, which comprises cloud infrastructure and cloud deployment aspects.

#### 4.3.2.2 Imported associated information

##### 4.3.2.2.1 Imported information entities and local labels
Imported information entities and local labels is not defined in the present version of the document.

##### 4.3.2.2.2 Associated information entities and local labels
Associated information entities and local labels is not defined in the present version of the document.

#### 4.3.2.3 Class diagram

##### 4.3.2.3.1 Relationships
skin rose hide empty members set namespaceSeparator none namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV.Cloud { class CloudifiedNF class NFDeployment class OCloudNamespace class NodeCluster class OCloudSite note as locationnote Has location info. locationnote .. OCloudSite CloudifiedNF "1" --> "1..*" NFDeployment: comprizes NFDeployment " 1..* "--> "1..*" OCloudNamespace : deployedOn OCloudNamespace " 1..* "--> "1" NodeCluster : deployedOn NodeCluster "1..*" --> "1..*" OCloudSite : locatedAt }

##### 4.3.2.3.2 Inheritance
skin rose hide empty members set namespaceSeparator none namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV.Cloud { class Resource class CloudifiedNF class NFDeployment class OCloudNamespace class NodeCluster class OCloudSite Resource <|-- CloudifiedNF Resource <|-- NFDeployment Resource <|-- OCloudNamespace Resource <|-- NodeCluster Resource <|-- OCloudSite }

#### 4.3.2.4 Class definitions

##### 4.3.2.4.1 CloudifiedNF
4.3.2.4.1.1 Definitions This class provides the TE&IV resource representation of Cloudified NF using the equivalent concept as defined in O- RAN.WG6.O2-GA&P [7]. 4.3.2.4.1.2 Attributes Not specified in the present version of the document. 4.3.2.4.1.3 Attribute constraints Not specified in the present version of the document. 4.3.2.4.1.4 Notifications Not specified in the present version of the document. 4.3.2.4.1.5 State diagram Not specified in the present version of the document.

##### 4.3.2.4.2 NFDeployment
4.3.2.4.2.1 Definitions This class provides the TE&IV resource representation of NF Deployment using the equivalent concept as defined in O- RAN.WG6.O2-GA&P [7]. 4.3.2.4.2.2 Attributes Not specified in the present version of the document. 4.3.2.4.2.3 Attribute constraints Not specified in the present version of the document. 4.3.2.4.2.4 Notifications Not specified in the present version of the document. 4.3.2.4.2.5 State diagram Not specified in the present version of the document.

##### 4.3.2.4.3 OCloudNamespace
4.3.2.4.3.1 Definitions This class provides the TE&IV resource representation of OCloud Namespace using the equivalent concept as “containerNamespace” defined in O-RAN.WG6.O2DMS-INTERFACE-ETSI-NFV-PROFILE [8] and as “namespace” in O- RAN.WG6.O2DMS-INTERFACE-K8S-PROFILE [9]. 4.3.2.4.3.2 Attributes Not specified in the present version of the document. 4.3.2.4.3.3 Attribute constraints Not specified in the present version of the document. 4.3.2.4.3.4 Notifications Not specified in the present version of the document. 4.3.2.4.3.5 State diagram Not specified in the present version of the document.

##### 4.3.2.4.4 NodeCluster
4.3.2.4.4.1 Definitions This class provides the TE&IV resource representation of O-Cloud Node Cluster using the equivalent concept as defined in O- RAN.WG6.O2-GA&P [7]. 4.3.2.4.4.2 Attributes Not specified in the present version of the document. 4.3.2.4.4.3 Attribute constraints Not specified in the present version of the document. 4.3.2.4.4.4 Notifications Not specified in the present version of the document. 4.3.2.4.4.5 State diagram Not specified in the present version of the document.

##### 4.3.2.4.5 OCloudSite
4.3.2.4.5.1 Definitions This class provides the TE&IV resource representation of O-Cloud Site using the equivalent concept as defined in O- RAN.WG6.O2-GA&P [7]. 4.3.2.4.5.2 Attributes Not specified in the present version of the document. 4.3.2.4.5.3 Attribute constraints Not specified in the present version of the document. 4.3.2.4.5.4 Notifications Not specified in the present version of the document. 4.3.2.4.5.5 State diagram Not specified in the present version of the document.

### 4.3.3 Namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV.REL-Cloud-RAN

#### 4.3.3.1 Namespace overview
This namespace contains the relationship between ORAN.SMO.TEIV.RAN to ORAN.SMO.TEIV.Cloud namespaces. The ORANNetworkFunction_ abstract class depicted in the figure 4.3.3.3.1-1 is a generalization of the various O-RAN Network Functions and shall be associated from the ORAN.SMO.TEIV.RAN namespace. The NFDeployment_REL_NF_ abstract class depicted in the figure 4.3.3.3.1-1 is a generalization of the various relationships between the O-RAN Network Functions and its associated NF Deployments. The NFDeployment class depicted in the figure 4.3.3.3.1-1 shall be associated from the ORAN.SMO.TEIV.Cloud namespace.

#### 4.3.3.2 Imported associated information

##### 4.3.3.2.1 Imported information entities and local labels
Imported information entities and local labels is not defined in the present version of the document.

##### 4.3.3.2.2 Associated information entities and local labels
Associated information entities and local labels is not defined in the present version of the document.

#### 4.3.3.3 Class diagram

##### 4.3.3.3.1 Relationships
skin rose hide empty members set namespaceSeparator none namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV.RAN { abstract class ORANNetworkFunction_ } namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV.REL-Cloud-RAN { abstract class NFDeployment_REL_NF_ } namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV.Cloud { class NFDeployment } NFDeployment "1..n" <-> "1..n" ORANNetworkFunction_ NFDeployment_REL_NF_ "1" -[hidden]d- NFDeployment NFDeployment_REL_NF_ -[hidden]d- ORANNetworkFunction_ NFDeployment_REL_NF_ . (NFDeployment, ORANNetworkFunction_) skin rose hide empty members set namespaceSeparator none namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV.RAN { abstract class ORANNetworkFunction_ } namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV.Cloud { class NFDeployment } skin rose hide empty members set namespaceSeparator none namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV.RAN { class ODUFunction{ } } namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV.REL-Cloud-RAN { class NFDeployment_serves_ODUFunction{ } } namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV.Cloud { class NFDeployment{ } } NFDeployment " \n1..n\nserved-oduFunction" <---> "serving-nfDeployment\n1..n\n\n " ODUFunction: > serves NFDeployment_serves_ODUFunction . (NFDeployment, ODUFunction) skin rose hide empty members set namespaceSeparator none namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV.RAN { class OCUCPFunction{ } } namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV.REL-Cloud-RAN { class NFDeployment_serves_OCUCPFunction{ } } namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV.Cloud { class NFDeployment{ } } NFDeployment " \n1..n\nserved-ocucpFunction" <---> "serving-nfDeployment\n1..n\n\n " OCUCPFunction: > serves NFDeployment_serves_OCUCPFunction . (NFDeployment, OCUCPFunction) skin rose hide empty members set namespaceSeparator none namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV.RAN { class OCUUPFunction{ } } namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV.REL-Cloud-RAN { class NFDeployment_serves_OCUUPFunction{ } } namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV.Cloud { class NFDeployment{ } } NFDeployment " \n1..n\nserved-ocuupFunction" <---> "serving-nfDeployment\n1..n\n\n " OCUUPFunction: > serves NFDeployment_serves_OCUUPFunction . (NFDeployment, OCUUPFunction) skin rose hide empty members set namespaceSeparator none namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV.RAN { class NearRTRICFunction{ } } namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV.REL-Cloud-RAN { class NFDeployment_serves_NearRTRICFunction{ } } namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV.Cloud { class NFDeployment{ } } NFDeployment " \n1..n\nserved-nearRTRICFunction" <---> "serving-nfDeployment\n1..n\n\n " NFDeployment_serves_NearRTRICFunction . (NFDeployment, NearRTRICFunction)

##### 4.3.3.3.2 Inheritance
skin rose hide empty members set namespaceSeparator none namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV { abstract class Topology_REL_ {} } namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV.REL-Cloud-RAN { abstract class NFDeployment_REL_NF_ {} Topology_REL_ <|-- NFDeployment_REL_NF_ NFDeployment_REL_NF_ <|-- NFDeployment_serves_ODUFunction NFDeployment_REL_NF_ <|-- NFDeployment_serves_OCUCPFunction NFDeployment_REL_NF_ <|-- NFDeployment_serves_OCUUPFunction NFDeployment_REL_NF_ <|-- NFDeployment_serves_NeartRTRICFunction }

#### 4.3.3.4 Class definitions

##### 4.3.3.4.1 NFDeployment_serves_ODUFunction
4.3.3.4.1.1 Definitions This class provides the Topology Relationship between the NFDeployment and the ODUFunction Topology Entities as shown in figure 4.3.3.3.1-3. This class represents the relationship type of the NF Deployment serving the functionality of the ODU Function. 4.3.3.4.1.2 Attributes The NFDeployment_serves_ODUFunction TRC includes the attributes inherited from TopologyRel_ and has the following attributes: Attribute Name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable served-oduFunction M T F F T serving-nfDeployment M T F F T 4.3.3.4.1.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.3.3.4.1.4 Notifications None. 4.3.3.4.1.5 State diagram None.

##### 4.3.3.4.2 NFDeployment_serves_OCUCPFunction
4.3.3.4.2.1 Definitions This class provides the Topology Relationship between the NFDeployment and the OCUCPFunction Topology Entities as shown in figure 4.3.3.3.1-4. This class represents the relationship type of the NF Deployment serving the functionality of the OCUCP Function. 4.3.3.4.2.2 Attributes The NFDeployment_serves_OCUCPFunction TRC includes the attributes inherited from TopologyRel_ and has the following attributes: Attribute Name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable served-ocucpFunction M T F F T serving-nfDeployment M T F F T 4.3.3.4.2.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.3.3.4.2.4 Notifications None. 4.3.3.4.2.5 State diagram None.

##### 4.3.3.4.3 NFDeployment_serves_OCUUPFunction
4.3.3.4.3.1 Definitions This class provides the Topology Relationship between the NFDeployment and the OCUUPFunction Topology Entities as shown in figure 4.3.3.3.1-5. This class represents the relationship type of the NF Deployment serving the functionality of the OCUUP Function. 4.3.3.4.3.2 Attributes The NFDeployment_serves_OCUUPFunction TRC includes the attributes inherited from TopologyRel_ and has the following attributes: Attribute Name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable served-ocuupFunction M T F F T serving-nfDeployment M T F F T 4.3.3.4.3.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.3.3.4.3.4 Notifications None. 4.3.3.4.3.5 State diagram None.

##### 4.3.3.4.4 NFDeployment_serves_NearRTRICFunction
4.3.3.4.4.1 Definitions This class provides the Topology Relationship between the NFDeployment and the NearRTRICFunction Topology Entities as shown in figure 4.3.3.3.1-6. This class represents the relationship type of the NF Deployment serving the functionality of the Near-RT RIC Function. 4.3.3.4.4.2 Attributes The NFDeployment_serves_ NearRTRICFunction TRC includes the attributes inherited from TopologyRel_ and has the following attributes: Attribute Name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable served-nearRTRICFunction M T F F T serving-nfDeployment M T F F T 4.3.3.4.4.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.3.3.4.4.4 Notifications None. 4.3.3.4.4.5 State diagram None.

##### 4.3.3.4.4 NFDeployment_REL_NF_
4.3.3.4.4.1 Definitions This abstract class is provided for sub-classing only and is used to generalize the relationship classes in this namespace. 4.3.3.4.4.2 Attributes None. 4.3.3.4.4.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.3.3.4.4.4 Notifications None. 4.3.3.4.4.5 State diagram None.

#### 4.3.3.5 Attribute definitions

##### 4.3.3.5.1 Attribute properties
The following table defines the properties of attributes specified in the present document. Source Domain Attribute Name Documentation and Allowed Values Properties serving- This represents the Topology Entity Id(s) of the NF Deployment type: URN TE&IV nfDeployment instance(s) serving an O-RAN Network Function. multiplicity: 1..n isOrdered: False isUnique: True defaultValue: None served- This represents the Topology Entity Id(s) of the ODU Function type: URN TE&IV oduFunction instance(s) served by an NF Deployment. multiplicity: 1..n isOrdered: False isUnique: True defaultValue: None served- This represents the Topology Entity Id(s) of the OCUCP function type: URN TE&IV ocucpFunction instance(s) served by an NF Deployment. multiplicity: 1..n isOrdered: False isUnique: True defaultValue: None served- This represents the Topology Entity Id(s) of the OCUUP function type: URN TE&IV ocuupFunction instance(s) served by an NF Deployment. multiplicity: 1..n isOrdered: False isUnique: True defaultValue: None served- This represents the Topology Entity Id(s) of the Near-RT RIC type: URN TE&IV nearRTRICFunctiofunction instance(s) served by an NF deployment. multiplicity: 1..n n isOrdered: False isUnique: True defaultValue: None

### 4.3.4 Namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV

#### 4.3.4.1 Overview
This section contains the commonly used O-RAN TE&IV basic types and abstractions for Topology Entities and Topology Relationships.

#### 4.3.4.2 Imported associated information

##### 4.3.4.2.1 Imported information entities and local labels
Imported information entities and local labels is not defined in the present version of the document.

##### 4.3.4.2.2 Associated information entities and local labels
Associated information entities and local labels is not defined in the present version of the document.

#### 4.3.4.3 Class diagram

##### 4.3.4.3.1 Relationships
Not specified in the present version of the document.

##### 4.3.4.3.2 Inheritance
Not specified in the present version of the document.

#### 4.3.4.4 Class definitions

##### 4.3.4.4.1 TopologyEntity_
4.3.4.4.1.1 Definitions This abstract class represents the Topology Entities in the O-RAN TE&IV Information Models. All other <<TopologyEntityClass>> specified in this document must inherit from TopologyEntity_ directly or indirectly. 4.3.4.4.1.2 Attributes This class shall have the following attributes: Attribute Name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable topologyEntityId M T F T F sourceIds M T F F T 4.3.4.4.1.3 Attribute constraints Not specified in the present version of the document. 4.3.4.4.1.4 Notifications Not specified in the present version of the document. 4.3.4.4.1.5 State diagram Not specified in the present version of the document.

##### 4.3.4.4.2 TopologyRel_
4.3.4.4.2.1 Definitions This abstract class represents the Topology Relationships between Topology Entities in the O-RAN TE&IV Information Models. All other <<TopologyRelationshipClass>> specified in this document must inherit from TopologyRel_ directly or indirectly. 4.3.4.4.2.2 Attributes This class shall have the following attributes: Attribute Name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable topologyRelationshipId M T F T F sourceIds M T F F T 4.3.4.4.2.3 Attribute constraints Not specified in the present version of the document. 4.3.4.4.2.4 Notifications Not specified in the present version of the document. 4.3.4.4.2.5 State diagram Not specified in the present version of the document.

#### 4.3.4.5 Attribute definitions

##### 4.3.4.5.1 Attribute properties
The following table defines the properties of attributes specified in the present document. Attribute Name Documentation and Allowed Values Properties Source Domain topologyEntityId Unique identifier of the Topology Entity. type: URN SMO/TE&IV multiplicity: 1 This identity is represented using a URN notation format [14]. isOrdered: N/A isUnique: True defaultValue: None topologyRelationshipId Unique identifier of the Topology Relationship. type: URN SMO/TE&IV multiplicity: 1 This identity is represented using a URN notation format [14]. isOrdered: N/A isUnique: True defaultValue: None sourceIds Identities of the underlying topology resources represented by type: URN e.g., O1 the Topology Entity or underlying topology resources multiplicity: 1..N participating in the Topology Relationship. isOrdered: False isUnique: True The sourceIds are represented using a URN notation format [14]. defaultValue: None

# A TE&IV consumer can use the identifiers to navigate to the source domain objects.

### 4.3.5 Namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV.Physical

#### 4.3.5.1 Namespace overview
This namespace contains the Topology Entities and Topology Relationship in the Physical domain, which comprises of the deployment aspects of O-RAN Physical Network Functions.

#### 4.3.5.2 Imported associated information

##### 4.3.5.2.1 Imported information entities and local labels
Label reference Local label TEC, TopologyEntity_ TopologyEntity_ TRC, TopologyRel_ TopologyRel_ 3GPP TS 28.622[16], dataType, GeoCoordinate GeoCoordinate

##### 4.3.5.2.2 Associated information entities and local labels
Associated information entities and local labels is not defined in the present version of the document.

#### 4.3.5.3 Class diagram

##### 4.3.5.3.1 Relationships
skin rose hide empty members set namespaceSeparator none namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV.Physical { class PhysicalAppliance_installedAt_Site class PhysicalAppliance class Site PhysicalAppliance "1..n\ninstalling-site\n\n" <---> "installed-physicalAppliance \n1" Site : > installedAt PhysicalAppliance_installedAt_Site . (PhysicalAppliance, Site) } skin rose hide empty members set namespaceSeparator none namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV.Physical { class PhysicalAppliance { } class Site { } class Site }

##### 4.3.5.3.2 Inheritance
skin rose hide empty members set namespaceSeparator none namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV{ abstract class TopologyEntity_ {} } namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV.Physical { class Site class PhysicalAppliance } TopologyEntity_ <|-- PhysicalAppliance TopologyEntity_ <|-- Site skin rose hide empty members set namespaceSeparator none namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV{ abstract class TopologyRel_ {} } namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV.Physical { class PhysicalAppliance_installedAt_Site } TopologyRel_ <|-- PhysicalAppliance_installedAt_Site

#### 4.3.5.4 Class definitions

##### 4.3.5.4.1 PhysicalAppliance
4.3.5.4.1.1 Definitions This class provides the TE&IV resource representation of PhysicalAppliance using the equivalent concept as defined in O- RAN.WG1.OAD [6] clause 5.
> NOTE: The current version of this specification recommends that ORU be represented as a PhysicalAppliance with the
applianceType as "ORU". 4.3.5.4.1.2 Attributes The PhysicalAppliance TEC includes the topology attributes inherited from TopologyEntity_ and have the following attributes: Attribute Name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable vendorName M T F F T modelName M T F F T serialNumber M T F T T applianceType M T F F T 4.3.5.4.1.3 Attribute constraints Not specified in the present version of the document. 4.3.5.4.1.4 Notifications Not specified in the present version of the document. 4.3.5.4.1.5 State diagram Not specified in the present version of the document.

##### 4.3.5.4.2 Site
4.3.5.4.2.1 Definitions This class provides the TE&IV resource representation of physical Site using the similar concept as O-Cloud Site defined in O- RAN.WG6.O2-GA&P [7]. 4.3.5.4.2.2 Attributes The Site TEC includes the attributes inherited from TopologyEntity_ and have the following attributes: Attribute Name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable siteLocation M T F F T siteName O T F F T 4.3.5.4.2.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.3.5.4.2.4 Notifications There is no notification defined. 4.3.5.4.2.5 State diagram None.

##### 4.3.5.4.3 GeoInformation <<dataType>>
4.3.5.4.3.1 Definitions This data type provides the TE&IV resource representation of physical site location. 4.3.5.4.3.2 Attributes Attribute Name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable address O T F F T coordinate M T F F T 4.3.5.4.3.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.3.5.4.4.4 Notifications There is no notification defined. 4.3.5.4.4.5 State diagram None.

##### 4.3.5.4.4 PhysicalAppliance_installedAt_Site
4.3.5.4.4.1 Definitions This class provides the Topology Relationship between the PhysicalAppliance and the Site Topology Entities as shown in figure 4.3.5.3.2-2. This class represents the relationship type of the Site installing the Physical Appliance. 4.3.5.4.4.2 Attributes The Site TRC includes the attributes inherited from TopologyRel_ and have the following attributes: Attribute Name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable installing-site M T F F T installed-physicalAppliance M T F F T 4.3.5.4.4.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.3.5.4.4.4 Notifications There is no notification defined. 4.3.5.4.4.5 State diagram None.

#### 4.3.5.5 Attribute definitions

##### 4.3.5.5.1 Attribute properties
The following table defines the properties of attributes specified in the present document. Attribute Name Documentation and Allowed Values Properties Source Domain vendorName Name of the physical appliance vendor. type: String SMO multiplicity: 1 allowedValues: Not applicable isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: None modelName Name of the physical appliance model. type: String SMO allowedValues: Not applicable multiplicity: 1 isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: None siteLocation It indicates the location of the physical site. It describes Postal type: SMO address and coordinate. GeoInformation allowedValues: Not applicable multiplicity: 1 isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: None siteName Human readable name of the physical site as identified by the type: String SMO mobile network operator. multiplicity: 1 allowedValues: Not applicable isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: None Attribute Name Documentation and Allowed Values Properties Source Domain address Postal address of the location. type: String SMO multiplicity: 1 allowedValues: Not applicable isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: None coordinate The latitude, longitude and altitude of the GeoCoordinate, defined in type: SMO clause 4.3.53 of 3GPP TS 28.622 [16]. GeoCoordinate allowedValues: Not applicable multiplicity: 1 isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: None installing-site This represents the Topology Entity Id of the Site installing the type: URN TE&IV PhysicalAppliance instance(s). multiplicity: 1 isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: None installed- This represents the Topology Entity Id(s) of the PhysicalAppliance type: URN TE&IV physicalAppliance instance(s) installed at the Site. multiplicity: 1..n isOrdered: False isUnique: True defaultValue: None serialNumber Serial number of the appliance type: String SMO multiplicity: 1 isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: None applianceType Indicates the type of PhysicalAppliance. type: String SMO multiplicity: 0..1 isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue:None

### 4.3.6 Namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV.REL-Physical-RAN

#### 4.3.6.1 Namespace overview
This namespace contains the relationship between specific Topology Entities of the ORAN.SMO.TEIV.RAN to ORAN.SMO.TEIV.Physical namespaces and which represents the physical deployment aspects of ORAN Network Functions.

#### 4.3.6.2 Imported associated information

##### 4.3.6.2.1 Imported information entities and local labels
Imported information entities and local labels is not defined in the present version of the document.

##### 4.3.6.2.2 Associated information entities and local labels
Associated information entities and local labels is not defined in the present version of the document.

#### 4.3.6.3 Class diagram

##### 4.3.6.3.1 Relationships
skin rose hide empty members set namespaceSeparator none namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV.RAN { abstract class ORANNetworkFunction_ } namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV.REL-Physical-RAN { abstract class PhysicalAppliance_REL_NF_ } namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV.Physical { class PhysicalAppliance } PhysicalAppliance "1..n" <-> "1..n" ORANNetworkFunction_ PhysicalAppliance_REL_NF_ "1" -[hidden]d- PhysicalAppliance PhysicalAppliance_REL_NF_ -[hidden]d- ORANNetworkFunction_ PhysicalAppliance_REL_NF_ . (PhysicalAppliance, ORANNetworkFunction_) skin rose hide empty members set namespaceSeparator none namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV.Physical { class PhysicalAppliance } namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV.RAN { abstract ORANNetworkFunction_ } skin rose hide empty members set namespaceSeparator none namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV.RAN { class ODUFunction{ } } namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV.REL-Physical-RAN { class PhysicalAppliance_serves_ODUFunction{ } } namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV.Physical { class PhysicalAppliance{ } } PhysicalAppliance " \n1..n\nserved-oduFunction" <---> "serving- physicalAppliance\n1..n\n\n " ODUFunction: > serves PhysicalAppliance_serves_ODUFunction . (PhysicalAppliance, ODUFunction) skin rose hide empty members set namespaceSeparator none namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV.RAN { class OCUUPFunction{ } } namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV.REL-Physical-RAN { class PhysicalAppliance_serves_OCUUPFunction{ } } namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV.Physical { class PhysicalAppliance{ } } PhysicalAppliance " \n1..n\nserved-ocuupFunction" <---> "serving- physicalAppliance\n1..n\n\n " OCUUPFunction: > serves PhysicalAppliance_serves_OCUUPFunction . (PhysicalAppliance, OCUUPFunction) skin rose hide empty members set namespaceSeparator none namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV.RAN { class OCUCPFunction{ } } namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV.REL-Physical-RAN { class PhysicalAppliance_serves_OCUCPFunction{ } } namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV.Physical { class PhysicalAppliance{ } } PhysicalAppliance " \n1..n\nserved-ocucpFunction" <---> "serving- physicalAppliance\n1..n\n\n " OCUCPFunction: > serves PhysicalAppliance_serves_OCUCPFunction . (PhysicalAppliance, OCUCPFunction) skin rose hide empty members set namespaceSeparator none namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV.RAN { class NearRTRICFunction{ } } namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV.REL-Physical-RAN { class PhysicalAppliance_serves_NearRTRICFunction{ } } namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV.Physical { class PhysicalAppliance{ } } PhysicalAppliance " \n1..n\nserved-nearRTRICFunction" <---> "serving- physicalAppliance\n1..n\n\n " NearRTRICFunction: > serves PhysicalAppliance_serves_NearRTRICFunction . (PhysicalAppliance, NearRTRICFunction)

##### 4.3.6.3.2 Inheritance
skin rose hide empty members set namespaceSeparator none namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV{ abstract class TopologyRel_ {} } namespace ORAN.SMO.TEIV.REL-Physical-RAN { abstract class PhysicalAppliance_REL_NF_ {} TopologyRel_ <|-- PhysicalAppliance_REL_NF_ PhysicalAppliance_REL_NF_ <|-- PhysicalAppliance_serves_ODUFunction PhysicalAppliance_REL_NF_ <|-- PhysicalAppliance_serves_OCUCPFunction PhysicalAppliance_REL_NF_ <|-- PhysicalAppliance_serves_OCUUPFunction PhysicalAppliance_REL_NF_ <|-- PhysicalAppliance_serves_NeartRTRICFunction }

#### 4.3.6.4 Class definitions

##### 4.3.6.4.1 PhysicalAppliance_serves_ODUFunction
4.3.6.4.1.1 Definitions This class provides the Topology Relationship between the PhysicalAppliance and the ODUFunction Topology Entities as shown in figure 4.3.6.3.1-3. This class represents the relationship type of the PhysicalAppliance serving the functionality of the ODU function. 4.3.6.4.1.2 Attributes The PhysicalAppliance_serves_ODUFunction TRC includes the attributes inherited from TopologyRel_ and have the following attributes: Attribute Name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable served-oduFunction M T F F T serving-physicalAppliance M T F F T 4.3.6.4.1.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.3.6.4.1.4 Notifications None. 4.3.6.4.1.5 State diagram None.

##### 4.3.6.4.2 PhysicalAppliance_serves_OCUUPFunction
4.3.6.4.2.1 Definitions This class provides the Topology Relationship between the PhysicalAppliance and the OCUUPFunction Topology Entities as shown in figure 4.3.6.3.1-4. This class represents the relationship type of the PhysicalAppliance serving the functionality of the OCUUP function. 4.3.6.4.2.2 Attributes The PhysicalAppliance_serves_OCUUPFunction TRC includes the attributes inherited from TopologyRel_ and have the following attributes: Attribute Name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable served-ocuupFunction M T F F T serving-physicalAppliance M T F F T 4.3.6.4.2.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.3.6.4.2.4 Notifications None. 4.3.6.4.2.5 State diagram None.

##### 4.3.6.4.3 PhysicalAppliance_serves_OCUCPFunction
4.3.6.4.3.1 Definitions This class provides the Topology Relationship between the PhysicalAppliance and the OCUCPFunction Topology Entities as shown in figure 4.3.6.3.1-5. This class represents the relationship type of the PhysicalAppliance serving the functionality of the OCUCP function. 4.3.6.4.3.2 Attributes The PhysicalAppliance_serves_OCUCPFunction TRC includes the attributes inherited from TopologyRel_ and have the following attributes: Attribute Name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable served-ocucpFunction M T F F T serving-physicalAppliance M T F F T 4.3.6.4.3.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.3.6.4.3.4 Notifications None. 4.3.6.4.3.5 State diagram None.

##### 4.3.6.4.4 PhysicalAppliance_serves_NearRTRICFunction
4.3.6.4.4.1 Definitions This class provides the Topology Relationship between the PhysicalAppliance and the NearRTRICFunction Topology Entities as shown in figure 4.3.6.3.1-6. This class represents the relationship type of the PhysicalAppliance serving the functionality of the Near-RTRIC function. 4.3.6.4.4.2 Attributes The PhysicalAppliance_serves_NearRTRICFunction TRC includes the attributes inherited from TopologyRel_ and have the following attributes: Attribute Name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable served-nearRTRICFunction M T F F T serving-physicalAppliance M T F F T 4.3.6.4.4.3 Attribute constraints None 4.3.6.4.4.4 Notifications None. 4.3.6.4.4.5 State diagram None.

##### 4.3.6.4.5 PhysicalAppliance_REL_NF_
4.3.6.4.5.1 Definitions This abstract class is provided for sub-classing only and is used to generalize the relationship classes in this namespace. 4.3.6.4.5.2 Attributes None. 4.3.6.4.5.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.3.6.4.5.4 Notifications None. 4.3.6.4.5.5 State diagram None.

#### 4.3.6.4 Attribute definitions

##### 4.3.6.4.1 Attribute properties
The following table defines the properties of attributes specified in the present document. Attribute Name Documentation and Allowed Values Properties Source Domain serving- This represents the Topology Entity Id(s) of the NF type: URN TE&IV physicalAppliance PhysicalAppliance instance(s) serving O-RAN Network Function(s). multiplicity: 1..n isOrdered: False isUnique: True Attribute Name Documentation and Allowed Values Properties Source Domain defaultValue: None served- This represents the Topology Entity Id(s) of the ODU function type: URN TE&IV oduFunction instance(s) served by the PhysicalAppliance. multiplicity: 1..n isOrdered: False isUnique: True defaultValue: None served- This represents the Topology Entity Id(s) of the OCUUP function type: URN TE&IV ocuupFunction instance(s) served by the PhysicalAppliance. multiplicity: 1..n isOrdered: False isUnique: True defaultValue: None served- This represents the Topology Entity Id(s) of the OCUCP function type: URN TE&IV ocucpFunction instance(s) served by the PhysicalAppliance. multiplicity: 1..n isOrdered: False isUnique: True defaultValue: None served- This represents the Topology Entity Id(s) of the Near-RTRIC function type: URN TE&IV nearRTRICFunctio instance(s) served by the PhysicalAppliance. multiplicity: 1..n n isOrdered: False isUnique: True defaultValue: None

## 4.4 TE&IV Service Operations

### 4.4.1 Introduction
This clause provides the stage 2 definitions of TE&IV Service Operations for exposing Topology Entities, Topology Relationships and their attributes. The information model in Figure 4.4.1-1 depicts the model view of the entities used in the TE&IV Service Operations initiated by TE&IV Service Consumers to retrieve the Domains in Topology, Topology Entities and Topology Relationships. View The Figure 4.4.1-2 shows the allowed inter-domain relationships. It depicts subclasses of the Domain concept comprising two distinct categories: Relationship and Entity. An Entity Domain may contain both Entities and Relationships, however both aSide and bSide of such relationships shall exist in that domain. A Relationship Domain encapsulates Relationships to Entities in one or more Entity Domains. The Relationship Domain should not have any Entities.

### 4.4.2 Operations and Notification
4.4.2.1 getAllDomains operation

##### 4.4.2.1.1 Description
This operation is invoked by the TE&IV Service Consumer to retrieve all the available Topology Domains.

##### 4.4.2.1.2 Input parameters
Parameter Name S Description Accept M This parameter specifies the response media types that are acceptable. offsetParam O This query parameter allows you to omit a specified number of entries before the beginning of the result set for pagination. limitParam O The query parameter provides to limit the number of entries returned for a request for pagination.

##### 4.4.2.1.3 Output parameters
Parameter name S Description Domains M A list of Topology Domains and the links to its EntityTypes and RelationshipTypes.

##### 4.4.2.1.4 Results
In case of success, all the available Topology Domains are returned. In case of failure, an appropriate error response may be provided. 4.4.2.2 getTopologyEntityTypes operation

##### 4.4.2.2.1 Description
This operation is invoked by the TE&IV Service Consumer to get all the available Topology Entity types within a domain.

##### 4.4.2.2.2 Input parameters
Parameter Name S Description Accept M This parameter specifies the response media types that are acceptable. domainName M This path parameter specifies the name of the Topology Domain. offsetParam O This query parameter allows you to omit a specified number of entries before the beginning of the result set for pagination. limitParam O The query parameter provides to limit the number of entries returned for a request for pagination.

##### 4.4.2.2.3 Output parameters
Parameter name S Description EntityTypes M A list of links to the Topology Entities within the Topology Domain.

##### 4.4.2.2.4 Results
In case of success, all the available Topology Entity types in domain name are returned. In case of failure, an appropriate error response may be provided. 4.4.2.3 getTopologyByEntityTypeName operation

##### 4.4.2.3.1 Description
This operation is invoked by the TE&IV Service Consumer to get all Topology Entity instances of a specific Topology Entity type.

##### 4.4.2.3.2 Input parameters
Parameter Name S Description Accept M This parameter specifies the response media types that are acceptable. domainName M This path parameter specifies the name of the Topology Domain. entityTypeName M This path parameter specifies the name of a Topology Entity in a Topology Domain. targetFilter O This query parameter specifies the entity type and attributes to be returned in the REST response. scopeFilter O This query parameter specifies the attributes to match on for specific Topology Entities for which the data is to be produced. offsetParam O This query parameter allows you to omit a specified number of entries before the beginning of the result set for pagination. limitParam O The query parameter provides to limit the number of entries returned for a request for pagination.

##### 4.4.2.3.3 Output parameters
Parameter name S Description Entities M A list of links to the data model for schema definition of Topology Entities.

##### 4.4.2.3.4 Results
In case of success, all the available instances of a specific topology entity type are returned. In case of failure, an appropriate error response may be provided. 4.4.2.4 getTopologyById operation

##### 4.4.2.4.1 Description
This operation is invoked by the TE&IV Service Consumer to get a specific Topology Entity instance of a Topology Entity type.

##### 4.4.2.4.2 Input parameters
Parameter Name S Description Accept M This parameter specifies the response media types that are acceptable. domainName M This path parameter specifies the name of the Topology Domain. entityTypeName M This path parameter specifies the name of a Topology Entity in a Topology Domain. entityId M The path parameter specifies the Identifier of a Topology Entity instance.

##### 4.4.2.4.3 Output parameters
Parameter name S Description EntityInstance M Encapsulated object reference to the data model for schema definition of Topology Entities.

##### 4.4.2.4.4 Results
In case of success, an object referencing to the data model schema definition of Topology Entity instance of a specific Topology Entity type name is returned. In case of failure, an appropriate error response may be provided. 4.4.2.5 getAllRelationshipsForEntityId operation

##### 4.4.2.5.1 Description
This operation is invoked by the TE&IV Service Consumer to get all relationships for a specific Topology Entity instance of a Topology Entity type.

##### 4.4.2.5.2 Input parameters
Parameter Name S Description Accept M This parameter specifies the response media types that are acceptable. domainName M This path parameter specifies the name of the Topology Domain. entityTypeName M This path parameter specifies the name of a Topology Entity in a Topology Domain. entityId M The path parameter specifies the Identifier of a Topology Entity instance. targetFilter O This query parameter specifies the entity type and relationship to be returned in the REST response. scopeFilter O This query parameter specifies the attributes to match on for specific Topology Entity relationship for which the data is to be produced. offsetParam O This query parameter allows you to omit a specified number of entries before the beginning of the result set for pagination. limitParam O The query parameter provides to limit the number of entries returned for a request for pagination.

##### 4.4.2.5.3 Output parameters
Parameter name S Description Relationships M Encapsulated object reference to the data model for schema definition of Topology Relationships.

##### 4.4.2.5.4 Results
In case of success, an object referencing to the data model schema definition of Topology Relationships of a specific Topology Entity type name is returned. In case of failure, an appropriate error response may be provided. 4.4.2.6 getTopologyRelationshipTypes operation

##### 4.4.2.6.1 Description
This operation is invoked by the TE&IV Service Consumer to retrieve all the available Topology Relationship types.

##### 4.4.2.6.2 Input parameters
Parameter Name S Description Accept M This parameter specifies the response media types that are acceptable. domainName M This path parameter specifies the name of the Topology Domain. offsetParam O This query parameter allows you to omit a specified number of entries before the beginning of the result set for pagination. limitParam O The query parameter provides to limit the number of entries returned for a request for pagination.

##### 4.4.2.6.3 Output parameters
Parameter name S Description RelationshipTypes M A list of links to the Topology Relationships.

##### 4.4.2.6.4 Results
In case of success, all the available Topology Relationship types are returned. In case of failure, an appropriate error response may be provided. 4.4.2.7 getRelationshipsByType operation

##### 4.4.2.7.1 Description
This operation is invoked by the TE&IV Service Consumer to get all the available Topology Relationships of a specific relationship type name.

##### 4.4.2.7.2 Input parameters
Parameter Name S Description Accept M This parameter specifies the response media types that are acceptable. domainName M This path parameter specifies the name of the Topology Domain. relationshipTypeName M This path parameter specifies the name of a Topology Relationship in a Topology Domain. targetFilter O This query parameter specifies the entity type and attributes to be returned in the REST response. scopeFilter O This query parameter specifies the attributes to match on for specific Topology Entities for which the data is to be produced. offsetParam O This query parameter allows you to omit a specified number of entries before the beginning of the result set for pagination. limitParam O The query parameter provides to limit the number of entries returned for a request for pagination.

##### 4.4.2.7.3 Output parameters
Parameter name S Description Relationships M Encapsulated object reference to the data model for schema definition of Topology Relationships.

##### 4.4.2.7.4 Results
In case of success, all the available Topology Relationships of a specific relationship type name are returned. In case of failure, an appropriate error response may be provided. 4.4.2.8 getRelationshipById operation

##### 4.4.2.8.1 Description
This operation is invoked by the TE&IV Service Consumer to get a specific Topology Relationship instance of a Topology Relationship type.

##### 4.4.2.8.2 Input parameters
Parameter Name S Description Accept M This parameter specifies the response media types that are acceptable. domainName M This path parameter specifies the name of the Topology Domain. relationshipTypeName M This path parameter specifies the name of a Topology Relationship in a Topology Domain. relationshipId M This path parameter specifies the identifier of a Topology Relationship instance.

##### 4.4.2.8.3 Output parameters
Parameter name S Description Relationship M Encapsulated object reference to the data model for schema definition of Topology Relationship.

##### 4.4.2.8.4 Results
In case of success, a specific Topology Relationship instance of a Topology Relationship type is returned. In case of failure, an appropriate error response may be provided. 4.4.2.9 getSchemas operation

##### 4.4.2.9.1 Description
This operation is invoked by the TE&IV Service Consumer to retrieve all the available Topology Model Schemas.

##### 4.4.2.9.2 Input parameters
Parameter Name S Description Accept M This parameter specifies the response media types that are acceptable. offsetParam O This query parameter allows you to omit a specified number of entries before the beginning of the result set for pagination. limitParam O The query parameter provides to limit the number of entries returned for a request for pagination. domain O This query parameter allows you to specify the desired domain

##### 4.4.2.9.3 Output parameters
Parameter name S Description Schemas M A list of Topology Model Schemas

##### 4.4.2.9.4 Results
In case of success, all the available Topology Model Schemas are returned. In case of failure, an appropriate error response may be provided. 4.4.2.10 getSchemaByName operation

##### 4.4.2.10.1 Description
This operation is invoked by the TE&IV Service Consumer to get the schema by name.

##### 4.4.2.10.2 Input parameters
Parameter Name S Description Accept M This parameter specifies the response media types that are acceptable. schemaName M This path parameter specifies the name of the Topology Model Schema. offsetParam O This query parameter allows you to omit a specified number of entries before the beginning of the result set for pagination. limitParam O The query parameter provides to limit the number of entries returned for a request for pagination.

##### 4.4.2.10.3 Output parameters
Parameter name S Description string M Content of the Topology Model Schema

##### 4.4.2.10.4 Results
In case of success, schema content is returned. In case of failure, an appropriate error response may be provided.

## 4.5 TE&IV User Defined Data

### 4.5.1 Introduction
TE&IV user defined data is used for enriching Topology Entities and Topology Relationships. Such data can be added to existing Topology Entities and Relationships which enables flexibility for TE&IV Service Consumers in its usage of the service operations defined in clause 4.4. The user defined data are declared in separate schemas and are added through a REST API which shall be defined in the TE&IV API [17]. The following clauses provide the definitions for the types of TE&IV user defined data.

### 4.5.2 Classifiers
Classifiers permit the association of a well defined user specified string with a Topology Entity and/or Topology Relationship. Classifiers are declared in a schema added through a REST API [17]. When the schema is successfully created and validated, the user can assign the classifiers to the selected entities and/or relationships.

#### 4.5.2.1 Definitions
This class provides the representation of Classifiers.

#### 4.5.2.2 Attributes
Classifiers have the following attributes: Attribute Name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable operation M T F F T classifierNames M T F F T topologyEntityIds M T F F T topologyRelationshipIds M T F F T

#### 4.5.2.3 Attribute constraints
None.

#### 4.5.2.4 Notifications
There is no notification defined.

#### 4.5.2.5 State diagram
None.

### 4.5.3 Decorators
Decorators are key-value pairs that can be associated with Topology Entities and/or Topology Relationships. The type of the value is defined by the user in the schema which declares the decorator. Decorators are declared in a schema added through a REST API [17]. When the schema is successfully created and validated, the user can assign the decorator to the selected entities and/or relationships.

#### 4.5.3.1 Definitions
This class provides the representation of Decorators.

#### 4.5.3.2 Attributes
Decorators have the following attributes: Attribute Name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable operation M T F F T decoratorTags M T F F T topologyEntityIds M T F F T topologyRelationshipIds M T F F T

#### 4.5.2.3 Attribute constraints
None.

#### 4.5.2.4 Notifications
There is no notification defined.

#### 4.5.2.5 State diagram
None.

### 4.5.4 Attribute properties
Attribute Name Documentation and Allowed Values Properties Source Domain operation Specifies whether a classifier or decorator is being added or type: ENUM removed. multiplicity: 1 isOrdered: N/A Allowed values: merge, delete isUnique: N/A defaultValue: None Merge: Defined classifiers or decorators can be assigned to specified Topology Entities and Topology Relationships in a single request. Delete: Defined classifiers or decorators can be removed from specified Topology Entities and Topology Relationships in a single request. classifierNames List of tags to be assigned to Topology Entities and/or Topology type: String Relationships multiplicity: 1..N isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: None decoratorTags Key-value pairs to be assigned to Topology Entities and/or Topology type: AttributeValuePair Relationships. multiplicity: 1..N isOrdered: N/A The content of this attribute is a list of attributeName-attributeValue isUnique: N/A pairs. defaultValue: None Allowed values: Value must be a simple data type (string, integer, or Boolean) topologyEntityIds List of topologyEntityId. type: URN multiplicity: 1..N topologyEntityId is defined in clause 4.3.4.5.1. isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: None

### 4.5.5 Service Operations for User Defined Data
This clause provides the stage 2 definitions of TE&IV Service Operations for exposing Topology Entities, Topology Relationships using User Defined Data. 4.5.5.1 updateClassifier operation

##### 4.5.5.1.1 Description
This operation is invoked by the TE&IV Service Consumer to merge or delete the classifiers for the available Topology Entities and Relationships.

##### 4.5.5.1.2 Input parameters
Parameter Name S Description Accept M This parameter specifies the response media types that are acceptable. Content-Type M This parameter specifies the media types of the resource.

##### 4.5.5.1.3 Output parameters
None

##### 4.5.4.1.4 Results
In case of success, the classifier is assigned to or removed from all indicated entities and relationships. In case of failure, an appropriate error response may be provided. 4.5.5.2 updateDecorator operation

##### 4.5.5.2.1 Description
This operation is invoked by the TE&IV Service Consumer to merge or delete the decorators for the available Topology Entities and Relationships.

##### 4.5.5.2.2 Input parameters
Parameter Name S Description Accept M This parameter specifies the response media types that are acceptable. Content-Type M This parameter specifies the media types of the resource.

##### 4.5.5.2.3 Output parameters
None.

##### 4.5.5.2.4 Results
In case of success, all indicated entities and relationships are updated with the decorator. In case of failure, an appropriate error response may be provided. 4.5.5.3 getUserDefinedSchema operation

##### 4.5.5.3.1 Description
This operation is invoked by the TE&IV Service Consumer to discover the available user defined schema.

##### 4.5.5.3.2 Input parameters
Parameter Name S Description Accept M This parameter specifies the response media types that are acceptable. offsetParam O This query parameter allows you to omit a specified number of entries before the beginning of the result set for pagination. limitParam O The query parameter provides to limit the number of entries returned for a request for pagination.

##### 4.5.5.3.3 Output parameters
Parameter Name S Description UserDefinedSchemas M A list of user defined schemas.

##### 4.5.5.3.4 Results
In case of success, all the available user defined schemas are returned. In case of failure, an appropriate error response may be provided. 4.5.5.4 createUserDefinedSchema operation

##### 4.5.5.4.1 Description
This operation is invoked by the TE&IV Service Consumer to create new user defined schemas.

##### 4.5.5.4.2 Input parameters
Parameter Name S Description Accept M This parameter specifies the response media types that are acceptable. Content-Type M This parameter specifies the media types of the resource. MultipartFile M Multipart file containing the user defined schema to be created.

##### 4.5.5.4.3 Output parameters
Parameter Name S Description UserDefinedSchema M User defined schema with link to its content.

##### 4.5.5.4.4 Results
In case of success, the new user defined schema is created. In case of failure, an appropriate error response may be provided. 4.5.5.5 deleteUserDefinedSchema operation

##### 4.5.5.5.1 Description
This operation is invoked by the TE&IV Service Consumer to delete a user defined schema.

##### 4.5.5.5.2 Input parameters
Parameter Name S Description Accept M This parameter specifies the response media types that are acceptable. schemaName M This path parameter specifies the name of the user defined schema.

##### 4.5.5.5.3 Output parameters
None.

##### 4.5.5.5.4 Results
In case of success, the specified user defined schema is deleted. In case of failure, an appropriate error response may be provided. 4.5.5.6 getUserDefinedSchemaByName operation

##### 4.5.5.6.1 Description
This operation is invoked by the TE&IV Service Consumer to get a specific user defined schema by name.

##### 4.5.5.6.2 Input parameters
Parameter Name S Description Accept M This parameter specifies the response media types that are acceptable. Content-Type M This parameter specifies the media types of the resource. schemaName M This path parameter specifies the name of the user defined schema.

##### 4.5.5.6.3 Output parameters
Parameter Name S Description string M User defined schema content.

##### 4.5.5.6.4 Results
In case of success, the content of the user defined schema is returned. In case of failure, an appropriate error response may be provided.


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG10.TS.TE&IV-DM.0-R004-v03.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG10.TS.TE&IV-DM.0-R004-v03.00 Technical Specification O-RAN Work Group 10 (OAM for O-RAN) Topology Exposure and Inventory Data Model Specification -"
---

## 4.1 YANG based Solution Set (SS) definitions
The present document defines the following TE&IV Solution Set definitions for O-RAN:
- YANG based ORAN TEIV Common YANG Types and Extensions Solution Set (Annex A).
- YANG based ORAN TE&IV RAN Domain Solution Set (Annex B).
- YANG based ORAN TE&IV Physical Domain Solution Set (Annex C).
- YANG based ORAN TE&IV REL-Physical-RAN Domain Solution Set (Annex D).
- YANG based User Defined Data Schema (Annex E).

### 4.1.1 TE&IV Mapping from YANG to JSON schema

#### 4.1.1.1 Introduction
As specified in Clause 5.3 of the TE&IV API Specification [2], responses with message content shall be in JSON format. This clause defines the JSON mappings for the YANG schema specified in clause 4.1. Building on the principles outlined in RFC 7951 [3], the mappings specified here are extended to accommodate the YANG extensions in the O-RAN TE&IV YANG based Solution Set.

#### 4.1.1.2 The “biDirectionalTopologyRelationship” Data Node
The biDirectionalTopologyRelationship data node describes a bi-directional relationship in the TE&IV model. It is a relationship comprising of an aSide and a bSide. aSide and bSide are YANG extensions representing each end of the relationship. The order of aSide and bSide is important and must not be changed once defined. See TE&IV Common Information Models and Interface [1] Clause 4.2.1.1.4.1. Both aSide and bSide take a Topology Entity type as an argument. This entity type is represented by an instance identifier. A biDirectionalTopologyRelationship instance is encoded as an object containing an array of nested objects, where each nested object represents child data nodes as its properties, as shown below.

# A YANG example for the biDirectionalTopologyRelationship definition would be
or-teiv-yext:biDirectionalTopologyRelationship NFDEPLOYMENT_SERVES_ODUFUNCTION { … key id; leaf-list served-oduFunction { description "O-DU Function served by this NF Deployment."; or-teiv-yext:aSide or-teiv-cloud:NFDeployment; type instance-identifier; } leaf-list serving-nFDeployment { description "NF Deployment that serves this O-DU Function."; or-teiv-yext:bSide or-teiv-ran:ODUFunction; type instance-identifier; } } the following is an example of a valid JSON-encoded instance: { "o-ran-smo-teiv-rel-ran-cloud: NFDEPLOYMENT_SERVES_ODUFUNCTION": [ { "id": "urn:<instance identifier of NFDeployment_serves_ODUFunction>", "serving-nFDeployment": "urn:<instance identifier of NFDeployment>", "served-oduFunction": "urn:<instance identifier of ODUFunction>", "sourceIds": [ "urn:<instance source identifier of NFDeployment>", "urn:<instance source identifier of ODUFunction>"] } ] }


---

<!-- SOURCE: combined_oran_wg11.md -->
<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG11.Security-Log-Management-TR.O-R004-v05.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG11.Security-Log-Management-TR.O-R004-v05.00"
---


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG11.TR.AppLCM-Security-R004-v04.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG11.TR.AppLCM-Security-R004-v04.00"
---


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG11.TR.CSM-Security-R004-v01.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG11.TR.CSM-Security-R004-v01.00"
---


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG11.TR.Certficate-Management-Framework.0-R004-v05.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG11.TR.Certficate-Management-Framework.0-R004-v05.00"
---

#### ACME Certificate Enrolment Flow

In ACME, message exchanges happen over HTTPS. The ACME specification defines a way of using an HTTP POST request to perform what an HTTP GET request usually does, but with JWS message authentication. The usage is called POST-as-GET in the protocol specification.

A typical certificate request sequence in ACME involves the follow steps:

Order creation: The client performs an HTTP POST to submit a request; the ACME server creates and returns an order object.

Challenge retrieval: The client uses POST-as-GET request(s) to retrieve the authorization objects referenced in the order object. In the general case, multiple authorization objects may be involved.

Challenge fulfillment: For each of the authorization object(s), the client selects one (of possibly multiple) challenge in the authorization object, takes action to fulfill the challenge, and POSTs to a URL to notify the ACME server of the challenge selected and it has been fulfilled.

Challenge validation: The ACME server verifies that the client has fulfilled the indicated challenges, e.g. by performing an HTTP request or a DNS query. This validation step may take a variable amount of time.

Polling for status change: The client performs POST-as-GET requests to check the status of the authorization object(s), until their status(es) are no longer “pending”.

Order finalization: The client POSTs to a URL contained in the order object, including a CSR in the request. There may be a variable amount of delay before the ACME server issues a certificate.

Polling for status change: The client performs POST-as-GET requests to check the status of the order object(s), until its status is “ready”.

Certificate download: The client performs a POST-as-GET to download a newly-issued certificate from a URL in the updated order object.

#### Integration with Kubernetes via cert-manager

#### Remarks

Compared with other certificate management protocols, ACME is rather “chatty” in that a typical certificate request sequence involves a relatively large number of request-response exchanges.

Although the pre-integration with ACME makes cert-manager an attractive certificate management option for containerized applications orchestrated using Kubernetes, private keys generated by cert-manager are only protected by access control. Private keys are exposed in plaintext form to anyone who has or managed to obtain privileged access (e.g., superuser access) inside a container.

### Impacts on Existing Interfaces and Functionality

### Solution Evaluation

Addressing Key Issue #37, ACME provides a solution for PKI certificate management protocol and procedures. In contrast to CMPv2, ACME is a dedicated protocol for certificate provisioning that is based on easy-to-implement REST interfaces and the HTTP protocol. It is therefore easier to implement in resource-restricted client implementations as well as in the certificate authority (trust center). CMPv2, however, is a very complex binary (ASN1-based) protocol with a feature set that well exceeds what is needed for certificate provisioning.

Addressing Key Issue #38, ACME provides a solution for PKI certificate management protocol and procedures. Because of its dedication to certificate provisioning and the use of RESTful APIs it is easier to understand for developers leading potentially to a better conformance and therefore higher interoperability of ACME implementations. For CMPv2, however, variances in implementations may lead to more interoperability problems due its higher complexity and the need to observe a large number of specifications with regard to its deployment in an O-RAN context (ie. original RFCs, 3GPP profiles, potentially O-RAN Alliance profiles).

## Solution #5: Initial Certificate Enrolment of PNFs using vendor certificates

### Description

This solution addresses Key Issue #3 and Key Issue #4.

When a new physical network function (PNF) gets deployed in a network, it can obtain operator’s CA signed certificate in order to establish secure communications with other network functions. An operator may prefer using vendor-signed certificates for automated initial certificate enrolment. This solution proposes the procedure to use vendor-signed certificates for initial certificate enrolment of PNFs. This solution proposal refers to vendor certificate-based initial registration and certificate enrolment as described in 3GPP TS 33.310 [i.2] clause 9 “Certificate enrolment for base stations”.

The solution is summarized as below:

Pre-conditions:

- When a PNF is deployed in the network, for initial certificate enrolment, it requires vendor-signed certificate and the related private key, and operator’s CA certificate.
- Also, PNF needs to be configured with the URL/IP address for RA/CA.
- As described in 3GPP TS 28.315 [i.44] clause 5.3, operators may deploy their management infrastructure in a manner that either IP address or FQDN of RA/CA is known to the PNF.
- The plug-and-connect concepts as described in 3GPP TS 28.314 [i.45] and 3GPP TS 28.315 [i.44] should be followed.
- CA/RA has the vendor’s root certificate pre-provisioned.
- 3GPP TS 28.314 [i.45] clause 4.1.3.1 should be followed for root certificate acquisition.
- RA is an optional entity, and the registration function can be directly implemented with the CA component. RFC 4210 [i.5] (for CMPv2) describes possible reasons for the presence of RA in Appendix A of the RFC.
Initial Certificate Enrolment:

- 3GPP TS 33.310 [i.2] Annex G presents an example CMPv2 message flow for initial enrolment, and this should be followed.
- When PNFs have connectivity with CA/RA, and above pre-conditions are satisfied, vendor-signed certificate gets used to perform initial certificate enrolment.
- PNF presents the vendor-signed certificate to CA/RA during CMPv2: Initialization Request. CA/RA having vendor’s root certificate can authenticate this request and, the CMPv2 protocol can be followed, as defined in RFC 4210 [i.5], to establish the trust.
- This trust establishment allows newly deployed PNFs to obtain operator CA issued certificate along with the chain of trust.
An O-RAN PNF requiring a PKI certificate will need to support CMPv2 and will need a pre-installed vendor certificate. Offline interfaces will be required to configure the URL/IP address of the RA/CA in the PNF.

Offline interfaces will also be required to pre-provision vendor’s trust anchor in RA/CA.

Pre-condition: In order to facilitate vendor certificate-based initial enrolment of PNFs, vendor’s trust anchor is pre-installed in operator’s RA/CA.

This solution addresses Key Issue #3 and Key Issue #4.

### Potential Security Requirements

In order to facilitate vendor certificate-based initial enrolment of PNFs, vendors should pre-install vendor-signed certificates in PNFs.

In order to facilitate vendor certificate-based initial enrolment of PNFs, operators should pre-configure the FQDN/IP address of RA/CA in PNFs.

## Solution #6: Certificate management and secure storage of Application private keys within O-Cloud

The O-Cloud platform should have a certificate manager (e.g., "cert-manager" for Kubernetes [i.https://cert-manager.io]) that supports secure protocols such as ACME and (CMPv2 is not yet implemented), which can be used to obtain certificates from other sources. This certificate manager is used to inject certificates in O-RAN Applications.  In order to do that, the certificate manager should use a trusted CA to sign the certificate request.

ACME or CMPv2 protocols support the integration with a PKI-as-a-Service to obtain certificates from any PKI, whether public or private, that support security modules like HSMs. This enables secure, automatic issuance of a unique, trusted identity certificate for every application and O-Cloud component.

Certificates and private keys should be stored within the O-Cloud platform as secrets (e.g., native k8s Secrets Objects). Private keys should be protected in terms of confidentiality and integrity.

During runtime, if there is a need for PKI migration, where the root/sub CA certificates used to sign the certificates provided to ORAN Apps need to be updated, the O-Cloud platform and certificate manager should perform following steps:

Obtain the updated root/sub CA certificates and store within the O-Cloud platform

Create new instances of running Apps (CNFs/VNFs) which are expected to be impacted by this PKI migration, but do not activate them yet

These new instances should be able to obtain newly signed certificates with updated root/sub CA

Subsequently, the newly created instances can be activated using newly signed certificates

After successfully completing above steps, deactivate and delete CNFs/VNFs running with old certificates. CNFs/VNFs deletion process includes deletion of all certificates and associated private keys.

If all NFs in a network slice are impacted, a new network slice can be created with new NFs using certificates signed with new root/sub CAs, and then, once new slice takes over the work, existing slice with older certificates can be deactivated and deleted.

Above mentioned steps can be performed in a maintenance window, or, when the load on the system is expected to be low and no priority users or emergency calls are ongoing.

It is recommended to maintain both old certificate and the new root/intermediate CA certificate for an overlapping period. This overlapping period allows services to gradually transition to new certs while maintaining trust and service continuity. Once all services updated with new certificates, old certificates can be retired/deleted.

### Generation of key pair and modes of operation

The ETSI GR NFV-SEC 005 [i.11] clause 8 is describing the key-generation and distribution for NFV certificate lifecycle management, specifically three different concepts are shown.

In this clause the different key-generation concepts have been taken as basis for further development of the key-generation and certificate enrolment.

The following Figure 5-4 is depicting the system level view for the secure storage and certificate management.

The following is applicable:

The Virtualisation Platform (VP) includes the Secure Storage Resource Manager (SSRM). The SSRM is managing the interface to either the SW based or HW based secure storage solution. The VM/Container is owning a more ‘internal’ interface to SSRM (which is like a primitive between protocol stacks). The SSRM is providing service for key-pair generation and provision of the public key, is providing digital signatures, is providing key-management, etc.

The underlying HW based secure storage can be either implemented by a TPM device (HW or SW) or can be by a (physically) connected HSM module.

Any Application or certificate manager have access to SSRM service.

The management and orchestration system (e.g., MANO for VM [i.11], CIS/CISM for Container [i.12]) is receiving the operator public key on request for distribution to other Applications.

The Operator RA/CA has connected its own HSM module which is creating the private key for signing requests.

#### Generation of the key pair by the Virtualization Platform

In this mode, the key pair is generated by the SSRM following the request of the certificate manager. The certificate manager could automatically ensure certificates are valid and up to date and attempt to renew certificates at a configured time before expiry.

The following steps are followed to request and store certificates:

An Application creates and sends a certificate resource request to the certificate manager

The certificate manager requests from the SSRM the generation of a key pair and sends a Certificate Signing Request (CSR) to the CA

The CA signs the certificate with its own private key and returns it to the certificate manager.

The certificate manager stores the signed certificate in the secret storage volume with the O-Cloud platform (e.g., in etcd).

Authenticated and authorized Application can read the signed certificate from the secret storage volume for use and for digital signing service is (direct) requesting digital signature from the SSRM by providing the digest for signing.

#### Generation of the key pair by Trusted Application

In this mode, the key pair is generated by the Trusted (i.e., authenticated, and authorized) Application. In this mode, the life cycle of the certificate is to be managed by the Application and it is the responsibility of the Application to renew the certificates before they expire.

The following steps are followed to request and store certificates:

Trusted Application generates a key pair.

The Trusted Application sends the public key back to the certificate manager. The certificate manager sends the CSR to the CA for signing.

The CA signs the certificate with its own private key and returns it to the certificate manager.

The certificate manager returns the signed certificate.

The trusted Application requests the SSRM to store its private key with the signed certificate in the secure storage.

#### Generation of the key pair by a HW security module (e.g., HSM, TPM)

In this mode, the key pair is generated by the connected HW security module (e.g., HSM, TPM). The security module is connected to the virtualization platform via the SSRM, which is then used for generation of a key pair.

In this mode, the life cycle of the certificate is to be managed by the Application and it is the responsibility of the Application to renew the certificates before they expire.

The following steps are followed to request and store certificates:

An Application creates and sends a certificate resource request to the certificate manager

The certificate manager is creating a key-pair generation request to the security module. The security module is creating the key-pair and is sending the public key back to the certificate manager. The certificate manager sends the CSR to the CA for signing.

The CA signs the certificate with its own private key and returns it to the certificate manager.

The certificate manager returns the signed certificate.

The security module stores the private key, and the signed certificate is going to the Application.

### Secure key and file storage

Encryption/decryption functionality is provided by the management platform and handled by the CPU’s accelerated instruction, providing accelerated data at rest for both AES encryption and decryption. The main assets involved in the encryption/decryption of private keys are the key encryption key (KEK), the disk encryption key (DEK) and/or the secret encryption key (SEK). Different solutions for protecting those keys in terms of integrity and confidentiality are currently used. Such potential solutions include:

#### Secure Key and File Storage Mechanisms – Architecture Framework

The main purpose for implementing a secure storage is to guarantee the secrecy of a private key (asymmetric cryptography) and/or of a file which might hold sensitive information. The secure storage in this context is a composition of sub-functions which all together are required to provide service to upper layer for a proper secure key and file protection.

The following Figure 5-8 depicts the overall architecture framework for a secure key and file storage.

The SSRM is providing service to any application, i.e., is creating private-public key pair, is providing digital signing requests on received digests, is returning the digital certificates, etc. Any application is connecting to SSRM via a standardised Secure Storage API (SSAPI). This API is independent of the underlying secure storage mechanism. The storage mechanism can be built up by a single secure storage instance or by multiple secure storage instances. Their management is up to the SSRM.

The following is applicable:

The O-RAN Application is interfaced to the Secure Storage Resource Manager (SSRM) via a Secure Storage API.

The role of the SSRM is to provide service on secure storage to any Application, and to hide the underlying protection mechanism which can be either SW-based and/or HW-based. The Monitor function belongs to the SSRM and is for tracking purposes or could be used as proxy towards the system O&M.

The secure storage mechanism could be a SW based approach (e.g., vTPM) and/or HW-based (e.g., TPM, HSM).

The HW-based solution option is impacting the HW and therefore is belonging to Infrastructure. The SSRM (including the SS API) and the SW-based solution option is belonging to the Platform. The O-RAN Application is belonging to the application SW level.

#### Scenarios for protecting keys within the secret storage volume

##### Use of TPM (Hardware TPM or vTPM)

In this solution, two scenarios are possible, among others:

Scenario 1: Private keys are not encrypted individually. All private keys are stored in a disk encrypted by the DEK. DEK is stored in a TPM for automatic decryption at boot.

Scenario 2: Private keys could by encrypted individually by SEKs. SEKs are stored in a disk encrypted by the KEK. KEK is stored in a TPM.

##### Use of KMS server

There is a specific SEK for each private key. The SEK is used to encrypt the private key and is itself encrypted by the KMS server’s KEK. The KMS server may use an HSM for the storage of the KEK and the encryption of SEKs. The HSM if used by the KMS server may or may not be the same as the HSM used by the CA.

Solution #6, focusing on the implementation of certificate management and secure storage of application private keys within the O-Cloud, substantially impacts the O-Cloud architecture by elevating its security framework. The O-Cloud should incorporate the following components and mechanisms:

The O-Cloud should support a certificate manager for the automated handling of digital certificate lifecycle processes, including the generation, issuance, renewal, and revocation of certificates. This certificate manager should be capable of integrating with various Certificate Authorities (CAs) and support secure protocols such as ACME, CMPv2, etc., for seamless certificate procurement. It must be designed to facilitate secure, automatic issuance of unique, trusted identity certificates for every application and component within the O-Cloud.

The O-Cloud should support secure storage and deletion mechanisms for protecting private keys during their entire lifecycle. This involves several critical components and processes:

Secure key generation: Private keys should be generated in a secure environment, possibly using HSMs or TPMs, to ensure that they are never exposed to less secure environments or unauthorized entity.

Encrypted storage: Once generated, private keys should be stored in encrypted form. The encryption should be strong enough to prevent unauthorized access.

Access control: Strict access controls should be implemented to ensure that only authorized applications can access the private keys.

Regular updates and renewal: The O-Cloud should support automated renewal and update processes for keys and certificates, ensuring that they are replaced or updated before they expire or become vulnerable due to advancements in cryptographic attacks or if there is a need to change the CA signing the certificates for Applications. Also, during any such updates, it should be ensured that there is no service interruption.

Secure deletion: When a private key is no longer needed, it should be securely deleted. Secure deletion ensures that the key is irrecoverable, preventing any possibility of unauthorized use. This can be achieved through techniques like cryptographic erasure, where the key is made inaccessible by destroying the encryption key used to encrypt the private key.

Backup: While maintaining the security of private keys, the O-Cloud should also support secure backup. These backups should be encrypted and stored securely.

This solution addresses Key Issue #20.

In addition to the existing security requirements in Clause 5.1.8.6 of [i.47] focused on the secure storage and deletion of sensitive data within the O-Cloud platform, the following potential security requirements are proposed to ensure secure handling of private keys and certificates within the O-Cloud:

- The O-Cloud should provide mechanisms for managing the entire lifecycle of digital certificates, including (re-)issuance, renewal, revocation, and expiration.
- The O-Cloud should support automated renewal processes for certificates to avoid service interruptions due to expired/revoked certificates or during any PKI migration (change in CAs used for signing Application certificates).
- The O-Cloud should support orchestration for configuration and updates of CAs for specific network slices.
- The O-Cloud should support integration with trusted CAs for the issuance of certificates.
- The O-Cloud should support for various certificate management protocols like CMPv2 and ACME.
- The O-Cloud should implement secure and robust mechanisms for the generation of cryptographic keys. This includes using high-entropy sources for randomness and adhering to industry-standard cryptographic algorithms such as NIST SP 800-133 [i.48] and SOG-IS [i.49], ensuring the keys are of sufficient strength and quality.
- The O-Cloud should raise alarms and/or notifications if the secure storage space has exceeded the configured limits and more data cannot be stored.

## Solution #7: CMPv2

CMPv2 is described in RFC 4210 [i.5].

An O-RAN PNF, VNF, or CNF requiring a PKI certificate will need to support CMPv2.

Current O-RAN specifications require CMPv2 for the management of the O-RU [i.10].

CMPv2 provides a solution for PKI certificate management protocol and procedures.

CMPv2 provides the following functionality for O-RAN certificate management.

- CMPv2 supports automatic certificate enrolment, rekey, and renewal procedures.
- CMPv2 provides built-in integrity protection and authentication.
- CMPv2 provides revocation support for VNFs and CNFs with the operation of Revocation Request/Response, Revocation Announcement and CRL Announcement.  This support allows for an authorized orchestrator to revoke a certificate for a VNF or CNF before it is removed.
- It is not recommended to have CMPv2 provide revocation support for a PNF for the following reasons:
- Most Certificate Policies require a human review and authorization of revocation request due to the severity of consequences.
- The revocation requests are typically submitted by humans rather than machines that own the certificates. Once a PNF is compromised, it cannot be relied upon to request revocation for its own certificate and other elements in a domain may not be able to make practical use of an automated CMPv2 revocation messaging.
- Human operators may mistake an unapproved revocation request with an actual act of revocation and take pre-mature actions.
- CRLs are better provided by CRL servers (either LDAP or HTTP access as stated in clause 6.1.1 of the 3GPP TS 33.310[i.2]) that simply act as web-servers with no trust authority. This provides much better scalability properties than an RA/CA responding to high volume of CMP requests for CRLs.
- An O-RAN PNF, VNF, or CNF can use CMPv2 protocol or out-of-band procedures to register at the CA/RA.
- An O-RAN PNF, VNF, or CNF can use CMPv2 protocol to initiate the certificate request to the CA/RA, and receive the certificate from the CA/RA in a secure and automated procedure.
- An O-RAN PNF, VNF, or CNF can use CMPv2 protocol to update the key and certificate to the CA/RA, and receive the renewed certificate from the CA/RA before the certificate expires in a secure and automated procedure.
Potential security requirements:

- An O-RAN PNF, VNF or CNF requiring a PKI certificate should support CMPv2 as defined in RFC-4210 [i.5].
- An O-RAN PNF, VNF, or CNF supporting CMPv2 should have the URL, FQDN, and/or IP address for the RA/CA pre-configured or configurable. The RA/CA are defined in RFC-4210 [i.5]. For an instance of a PNF being configurable, an O-RAN PNF can be configured with the IP address or FQDN of one or more Certification Authority (CA/RA) servers using DHCP Option 43 as specified in clause 4.2.2 of 3GPP TS 32.509 [i.8].
- An O-RAN PNF, VNF, or CNF supporting CMPv2 should raise notification and/or alarm if any polling request (as defined in RFC-4210 [5] clause 5.3.22) sent to CMPv2 server fails.
- CRL servers (either LDAP or HTTP access as stated in clause 6.1.1 of the 3GPP TS 33.310[2]) should be used to check the revocation status of certificates.
- If the check for revocation status fails for any reason, e.g., connectivity to CRL server fails, or DNS resolution of CRL server fails, then an alarm should be raised to enable operator to take appropriate actions.
- Details of any revoked certificate should be updated in CRL servers by the operator’s PKI.
- If, for some reason, this update fails, alarm and/or notifications should be raised to notify the operator.

## Solution #8: Vendor Root CA Certificate Renewal notification

The PNFs using vendor-signed certificates for initial certificate enrolment shall raise a notification when vendor root CA certificate is about to expire in x days. The notifications are raised with severity increasing closer to expiration: As an example:

None.

In many deployments, the validity periods of vendor root CA certificates are very long. Moreover, once a PNF is enrolled using vendor-signed certificates, the need for using vendor root CA certificates for authenticating PNFs is very rarely required. Such a scenario may only be necessary if a PNF deployed many years ago requires a factory recovery for some reason and is intended to be used as a fresh deployment after vendor root CA certificate expires.

This solution proposes notifications (alarms) to be raised with increasing levels of severity as the expiry date of vendor root CA certificate approaches. Operators need to keep track of such notifications and ensure timely updates of vendor certificates if necessary in order to ensure no impacts on system availability.

It is recommended that PNFs which use vendor-signed certificates for initial certificate enrolment monitor the expiry of the root CA certificate used to sign the certificate. When the expiry of the vendor root CA certificate is approaching, PNFs can raise notifications (alarms) with increasing levels of severity as the expiry date gets closer.

## Solution #9: Mitigating the risk of system overload due to bulk certificate updates

This solution proposes an optional Certificate Update Orchestrator (CUO), which monitors various possible triggers for certificate updates, and orchestrates the certificate updates in a staggered manner in order to prevent potential service outage during simultaneous certificate updates for a large number of NFs (PNFs/CNFs/VNFs). Operators may implement such an orchestrator in their datacenters where NFs are hosted. In some implementations, this may be implemented as an application running in the datacenter where SMO is hosted, or in the O-Cloud.

Figure 5-11 illustrates a possible implementation of CUO, showing the interfaces it may use. Implementations of CUO may vary, but this application should include the following functionalities in order to mitigate the risks detailed in Key Issue #13.

- CUO schedules the required certificate updates in various network functions (physical as well as virtual) in a staggered manner.
- The schedule can be derived in a manner that services or functions related to neighboring cells do not update the certificates simultaneously. This can ensure that the connected UEs will have at least one RL, and end-user service experience is not degraded due to any certificate updates.
- Time of initiation of certificate update in every network function can be planned and executed according to this schedule
- CUO monitors and predicts the time required for updating certificates in various network functions
- it maintains an internal database where the past records of time taken for certificate updates are stored
- this database can be used in order to train ML algorithms for predicting the time required for updating certificates
- CUO also monitors and predicts the need for certificate renewals due to expiry, as well as updates due to revocation
- CUO coordinates with SON/RIC in order to increase the coverage of neighboring cells when certificate updates are performed on a specific cell. This can ensure zero impacts on end-user service experience during certificate updates.
- CUO monitors the network performance parameters during the certificate update procedure executions, and reinforces the analytics to derive continuously enhanced scheduling for certificate updates
- CUO monitors the network performance parameters and considers lower network traffic for initiating and scheduling certificate update procedures.
None.

This solution provides details of possible implementations which can help operators ensure that automated certificate management does not lead to un-intentional service outages in the live network. Such applications can be implemented by the operator and deployed in datacenters hosting the SMO, or in the O-Cloud, enabling easy access of data required for certificate update orchestration.

Any automated certificate management system would benefit from avoiding simultaneous certificate updates for several network entities. This can be followed as a guideline.

None.

## Solution #10: Usage of PSK/Refnum for Initial Certificate Enrolment for PNFs

This solution addresses key issue #2 of this TR. As described in RFC 4210 [i.5] Section 4.2.2.2 Basic Authenticated Scheme, Initial Authentication Key (IAK) and reference value can be used for initial certificate enrolment using CMPv2. In this document, IAK is referred to as PSK (Pre-shared Key) and reference value is referred to as Refnum.

For PNFs, operators and vendors need to establish offline (out-of-band) secure methods in order to pre-provision PSK and Refnum values in PNFs which are planned to be newly deployed. The out-of-band methods may be automated, and clause 4.1 of this Technical Report can be referenced for any such automation.

PSK is used to sign the CMPv2 certification request, which is the first message sent from the PNF after initial deployment in the live network. PNF sends this request to operator’s PKI using pre-configured network details of operator’s PKI.

The integrity of CMPv2 certification request is verified by the operator’s PKI using the PSK. Also, operator’s PKI verifies proof of possession of Refnum value which is included in the certification request.

After successful verification of CMPv2 certification request, as per previous step, subsequent procedure is followed according to RFC 4210 Section 4.2.2.2 Basic Authenticated Scheme.

Upon successful completion of PSK/Refnum based initial enrolment, the newly deployed PNF receives the operator’s CA signed certificate, which is used for all subsequent establishment of secure connections with operator’s PKI.

PSK/Refnum values should not be used for any communications after initial enrolment.

If a factory recovery is required, new PSK/Refnum values should be provisioned by the operator.

No new impacts identified by this solution.

This solution ensures backward compatibility for PNFs using PSK/Refnum based initial certificate enrolment.

Any offline or out-of-band PSK/Refnum generation and distribution systems implemented by the operator should ensure that no rogue PNF can obtain valid PSK/Refnum values.

## Solution #11: Certificate renewal procedure

There are two possible scenarios when certificate renewal is required for any network function in O-RAN:

Certificate is about to expire in near future

NF is initialized but has an already expired certificate.

#### Certificate is about to expire in near future

As mentioned in key issue #42, in order to ensure that there is no service un-availability due to certificate expiry, certificates should be automatically renewed with sufficient time before expiry.

This solution proposes the following:

Operators can define a certificate renewal strategy, which could depend on the number of days to expiry or depending upon the alarm severity. Operators may also want to define a strategy for staggered certificate renewals.

When any certificate is about to expire in the near future, associated NF (PNF/CNF/VNF) sends alarms to NMS.

There can be multiple alarms with different severity. For example, if a certificate is about to expire on 30th day a Minor alarm is raised, if a certificate is about to expire on 15th day a Major alarm is raised, and when there are less than 5 days remaining for the certificate expiry a Critical alarm is raised.

NOTE that when a higher severity alarm is raised for the same certificate expiry, the lower severity alarm should be automatically cleared.

Automated certificate management system monitors these alarms and schedules certificate updates using CMPv2 protocol.

#### NF is initialized but has an already expired certificate

If any NF is already initialized but has an expired certificate, it will fail to establish any secure connections. In this scenario, a Critical alarm should be raised frequently for the same until the certificate gets renewed. For example, one critical alarm can be raised per day and it can trigger the operator to obtain a new certificate sooner. The provisioning of updated certificates needs to be done offline. Until such time that the NF gets a renewed certificate, the NF should not be allowed to establish connection to the network.

None.

This solution addresses Key Issue #42.

Network management system should provide alarms/notifications to automated certificate management systems alerting about the certificates about to expire in the near future.

Automated certificate management system should monitor the expiry time of certificates used by all network functions and ensure that the certificates are renewed automatically before the expiry.

If, for some reason, the certificates for NF(s) expire without getting renewed, Critical alarms should be raised till such a certificate gets renewed. Also, NF(s) with such expired certificates should not be allowed to establish connections with the O-RAN network.

## Solution #12: Certificate Profile for O-RAN TLS Entity

This solution addresses key issue #33 of the TR. The solution addresses specific certificate profiling requirements for elements, interfaces and systems expressly defined in O-RAN.

#### Certificate Profiling Requirements for TLS Entity

The present clause defines the certificate profile requirements for the O-RAN nodes that use the TLS protocol for secured communication in the O-RAN network. The nodes involved and the interfaces are described in the table below. The present clause addresses the certificate profile requirements for the TLS end entity that behave either as client, server or both.

| Use Case | Interface | Nodes involved | Security Mechanism |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | Open Front Haul(M-Plane) | O-RU and O-DU /SMO | mTLS, SSHv2, FTPES [i.e, O-RU becomes the client] |
| 2 | A1 Interface | Near-RT RIC and Non-RT-RIC | mTLS |
| 3 | Open Front Haul (CUS-Plane) | O-DU and O-RU | IEEE 802.1X with EAP-TLS |
| 4 | O1 | SMO and O-RAN Management Elements | mTLS |
| 5 | O2 | SMO and O-Cloud | mTLS |
| 6 | E2 | Near-RT RIC (xApps) and O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP | NDS/IP(IPsec) or DTLS |
| 7 | F1 | O-CU-CP and O-DU (F1-C)                                                                                             O-CU_UP and O-DU(F1-U) | NDS/IP(IPsec) or DTLS |

The architecture for issuing TLS client and server certificates is as per 3GPP 33.310 [i.2] clause 5.1.1.2. TLS certificates will be directly signed by the CA in the operator domain that the entity belongs to.

The common rules for all certificates defined in 3GPP33.310 [i.2], clause 6.1.1, clause 6.1.3.a will apply to this present clause.

All certificates used during the enrolment process of O-RAN entities will follow the requirements given in clause 4.X.1.3 of the present document.

The CA-browser forum [i.20] has the following requirement for the certificate operational and key usage periods. Certificates issued on or after 1 September 2020 should not have a Validity Period greater than 397 days.

SubjectAltName :

According to RFC 5280[i.13], subjectAltName can be an Internet electronic mail address, a DNS name, an IP address, and a Uniform Resource Identifier (URI). As per RFC 6125[i.18], an application service can be identified by a name or names carried in the subject field (i.e., a CN-ID) and/or in one of the following identifier types within subjectAltName entries (DNS-ID, SRV-ID. URI-ID).

RFC 6066 [i.17], which is applicable to TLS 1.2, defines that currently, only server names supported in SNI extension to TLS are DNS hostnames where "HostName" contains the fully qualified DNS hostname (FQDN) of the TLS server. RFC 6066 [i.17] also defines that literal IPv4 and IPv6 addresses are not permitted in "HostName". In practice, this means that at least one subjectAltName attribute with FQDN is to be included in server-side TLS end-entity certificates and subjectAltName will not contain only IP address in TLS server certificates.

Extensions:

Mandatory critical key usage:

digitalSignature for both TLS client and Server certificates. This applies for RSA signature certificate, ECDSA signature certificate, or DSA signature certificate.

According to TLS1.3 RFC 8446 [i.15] key agreement may be used for Diffie-Hellman certificates. This applies for the ECDH certificate, DH certificate.

Optional and non-critical TLS Feature Extension: RFC7633[i.19] defines a certificate extension that indicates that clients expect stapled OCSP responses with a value of  “status_request(5)” for the certificate and aborts the handshake ("hard-fail") if such a response is not available.

As per RFC 9325 for the common use cases of public key certificates in TLS, servers ought to support the following as a best practice: OCSP RFC 6960 [i.26] and OCSP stapling using the status_request extension defined in RFC 6066[i.17] The exact mechanism for embedding the status_request extension differs between TLS 1.2 and 1.3.  As a matter of local policy, server operators may request that CAs issue must-staple [i.19] certificates for the server and/or for client authentication.

Certificate Policies: A certificate policy (CP) is a designated set of rules that defines the applicability of a certificate to a particular community or a class of application with common security requirements.  A CP is represented in a certificate by an "Object Identifier" (OID). The process of crafting a certificate policy can be derived from the guidelines defined in IETF RFC 3647[i.27].

No new impacts were identified by this solution.

The following table defined below captures the certificate profile for the TLS end entity (Client and Server).

| O-RAN TLS Client and Server Certificate Profile |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Version | v3 |  |  |  |
| Serial Number | Must be Unique Positive Integer in the context of the issuing CA |  |  |  |
| Subject DN | (C=<country>), O=<Organization Name>, CN=<Some distinguishing name>. Organization and CN can be in UTF8 format. Note that C is optional element. |  |  |  |
| Subject DN | cn=<hostname>, (ou=<servers>), dc=<domain>, dc=<domain>. Note that ou is an optional element. |  |  |  |
| Subject DN |  |  |  |  |
| Validity Period | 1 year or less |  |  |  |
| Signature | See clause 6.1.1 of 3GPP 33.310[i.2] for the list of supported signature algorithms. |  |  |  |
| Subject Public Key Info | See clause 6.1.1 of 3GPP 33.310[i.2] for the list of supported public key types. |  |  |  |
| Extensions | Mandatory | Criticality | Value |  |
| keyUsage | TRUE | digitalSignature for TLS clients and servers |  |  |
| extendedKeyUsage | FALSE | id-kp-clientAuth TLS clients |  |  |
| extendedKeyUsage | FALSE | id-kp-serverAuth for TLS servers |  |  |
| extendedKeyUsage | FALSE | Entities that may be both client and server will have both OIDs set. |  |  |
| certificatePolicies | FALSE | If added, then it should be populated with a CP object identifier(OID). These OIDs correspond to specific policies established by the certificate issuer. |  |  |
| authorityKeyIdentifier | FALSE | This is same as the subjectKeyIdentifier of the Issuer’s certificate. CA utilizes the method as defined in section 2 of RFC 7093[i.24]. |  |  |
| subjectKeyIdentifier | FALSE | This is calculated by the issuing CA utilizing method as defined in section 2 of RFC 7093[i.24]. |  |  |
| cRLDistributionPoint | TRUE | FALSE | distributionPoint |  |
| cRLDistributionPoint | TRUE | FALSE | According to RFC 5280 [i.13] this indicates if the CRL is available for retrieval using access protocol and location with HTTP URI or LDAP. |  |
| subjectAltName | TRUE | Clause 4.12.1.1 details the use of subjectAltName in TLS client and Server certificates. |  |  |
| authorityInfoAccess | FALSE | id-ad-caIssuers |  |  |
| authorityInfoAccess | FALSE | According to RFC 5280 [i.13] id-ad-caIssuers describes the referenced description server and the access protocol and location, for example, using one or multiple HTTP and/or LDAP URIs.The referenced CA issuers description is intended to aid certificate users in the selection of a certification path that terminates at a point trusted by the certificate user. |  |  |
| authorityInfoAccess | FALSE | id-ad-ocsp |  |  |
| authorityInfoAccess | FALSE | According to RFC 5280 [i.13] id-ad-ocsp defines the location of the OCSP responder using HTTP URI. |  |  |
| TLS feature extension | FALSE | id-pe-tlsfeature: “status_request(5)” |  |  |
| TLS feature extension | FALSE | This can be used according to RFC 7633 [i.19] to prevent downgrade attacks that are not otherwise prevented by the TLS protocol; RFC 7633[i.19] also defines a certificate extension that indicates that clients expects stapled OCSP responses with a value of “status_request(5)” for the certificate and aborts the handshake ("hard-fail") if such a response is not available. |  |  |

The TLS entity certificates should adhere to the certificate profile outlined in clause 5.12.3, based on their respective roles. The CA responsible for handling the certificate signing request should ensure compliance in accordance with the certificate profile specified in clause 5.12.3.

## Solution #13: Identifying RA and CA as separate logical entities with flexible deployment options

### General Description

This solution addresses Key Issue #1.

Reference : RFC 4210 [i.5] Appendix A :

The reasons that justify the presence of an RA can be split into those that are due to technical factors and those which are organizational in nature.

- If hardware tokens are in use, then not all end entities will have the equipment needed to initialize these; the RA equipment can include the necessary functionality (this may also be a matter of policy).
- NOTE: This aspect may not be directly related to certificate management, and hence not important for this study.
- Some end entities may not have the capability to publish certificates; again, the RA may be suitably placed for this.
- The RA will be able to issue signed revocation requests on behalf of end entities associated with it, whereas the end entity may not be able to do this (if the key pair is completely lost).
Some of the organizational reasons that argue for the presence of an RA are the following.

- It may be more cost effective to concentrate functionality in the RA equipment than to supply functionality to all end entities (especially if special token initialization equipment is to be used).
- Establishing RAs within an organization can reduce the number of CAs required, which is sometimes desirable.
- RAs may be better placed to identify people with their “electronic” names, especially if the CA is physically remote from the end entity.
- NOTE: Authenticating a human with a certificate is outside the scope of O-RAN, and therefore, this point is not relevant for this study.
- For many applications, there will already be in place some administrative structure so that candidates for the role of RA are easy to find (which may not be true of the CA).
Based on the above description from RFC 4210 [i.5], it is recommended that operators assess the organizational policies and requirements for making a decision on whether or not, there is a need for having RA and CA deployed separately for O-RAN.

From O-RAN perspective, considering PNFs, CNFs and VNFs as “end entities” to whom certificates need to be issued by operator’s CA, a separate RA can be considered for the following scenarios:

- For registration of xApps, Near-RT RIC can act as RA
- For registration of rApps, Non-RT RIC can act as RA
- Similarly, for registration of PNFs, RA may be hosted in SMO.
- As an alternative deployment, RA can be hosted in O-Cloud and it can cater to registration of all PNFs/CNFs/VNFs
None.

This solution addresses Key Issue #1.

From O-RAN standardization point of view, RA and CA should be considered as separate logical entities. Operator may decide on deploy these entities in an integrated manner or separately.

## Solution #14: Securing Root CA Private Key

Solution #14 addresses Key Issue #20 Secure Storage of Trust Anchors and Private Keys.

Securing the root CA private key is critical for the integrity of Public Key Infrastructure (PKI). A compromised root CA private key can lead to unauthorized certificate issuance, enabling identity spoofing and undermining trust in the entire PKI ecosystem. To secure root CA private keys, it’s essential to maintain Root CA offline as a security best practice.

Importance of maintaining Root CA offline

The Primary objective of keeping the root Certificate Authority (CA) offline is to secure the private key associated with the root CA. The root CA private key security is critical because it is used to sign certificates issued by intermediate or Subordinate CAs, and its compromise could lead to fraudulent or unauthorized certificate issuance, impacting the trust of the O-RAN operator public key infrastructure.

By maintaining the root CA offline, the private key is protected from various threats and unauthorized access, and thereby enhancing the security of the PKI infrastructure.

Keeping the root CA offline, often referred to as “offline root CA”, means that private key of the root Certificate Authority (CA) is stored on a system that is not connected to any network or the internet. It is physically isolated from other systems and kept in a secure, air-gapped environment. This isolation reduces the risk of the root CA private key being exposed to online threats and unauthorised access and enhancing the security and trustworthiness of the PKI in O-RAN systems.

The root CA needs to be online only during its initial setup and when issuing certificates for intermediate or Subordinate CAs. Once these intermediate or subordinate CAs certificates are signed, the root CA can be taken offline and stored securely. The root CA serves as a trust anchor for the PKI, and its primary role is to issue certificates for subordinate or intermediate CAs. Subordinate or Intermediate CAs then handle the issuance of certificates to O-RAN VNFs/CNFs, while root CA remains securely offline to maintain PKI integrity.

Note: while it’s common for a root CA’s private key to be stored in HSM for added security, the term “root CA offline” refers to the network connectivity of the root CA system, not the specific use of an HSM. HSM provides additional layers of security by storing the private key in tamper-resistant hardware, but it doesn’t directly affect the network connectivity status of the root CA system. [i.7]

None.

This solution addresses Key Issue #20.

From O-RAN standardization point of view, it’s recommended to maintain Root CA offline status.

Note: This recommendation applies only if Private CA uses intermediate CAs.

## Solution #15: Certificate enrolment for new NF Deployment  using CMPv2

Figure 5-13 illustrates the steps performed to configure enrolment certificate for new NF Deployment.  The enrolment certificate shall be used for secured communication between SMO and Cloudified NF. The below procedure is specified as part of Instantiate Network Function on O-Cloud in clause 3.2.1 of ORAN TS Cloudification and Orchestration Use Cases and Requirements for O-RAN Virtualized RAN [i.52].

| Use case stage | Evolution / specification | <<Uses>> Related use |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Goal | Provisioning enrolment certificate for new NF Deployment to perform initial  configuration |  |
| Actors and Roles | NFO Service Consumer - Any service consumer allowed to consume NFO services [i.52];  SMO -A Service Management and Orchestration framework [i.51];  NFO – Network Function Orchestration [i.51];  OAM Functions – Operations, Administration and Maintenance function [i.51] ;  Operator PKI- Operator Public Key infrastructure;   O-Cloud-Cloud platform that provides O-RAN standardized interfaces, hosting O-RAN defined software components [i.52];  Cloudified NF-   A RAN Network Function software that is deployed in the O-Cloud via one or more NF Deployments [i.52];   NF Deployment - A software deployment on O-Cloud resources that realizes all or part of a Cloudified NF [i.52];  End Entity: user of PKI certificates and/or end user system that is the subject of a certificate [i.13]; |  |
| Pre-conditions | i. NFO has credentials to communicate with PKI. ii. Certificate Authority to issue the NF Certs to End Entity which is created in PKI. iii. All End Entity associated trust domains are already created in PKI. |  |
| Begins when | New NF is ready for deployment. |  |
| Step 1 (M) | NFO Service Consumer requests to NFO to instantiate new NF Deployment on the O-Cloud. |  |
| Step 2 (M) | NFO invokes Operator PKI via the vendor specific PKI interface to create End Entity associated to NF Deployment via O1 interface. |  |
| Step 3(M) | Operator PKI configures the End Entity and responds with enrolment data to NFO.  Enrolment data consists of: CMP details associated with provisioned End Entity, including one-time password in section 2.2.3 of RFC 7030 [i.32]; Root CA certificate details. |  |
| Step 4 (M) | NFO incorporates the enrolment data in NF Deployment initial configuration (including PKI server details). NF Deployment should consume these data to request certificate and CA trust certs towards operator PKI. |  |
| Step 5 (M) | NFO triggers NF Deployment in O-Cloud using O2-dms interface, this trigger may be in several steps, for instance secrets shall be shared in secured way before actual NF Deployment starts. |  |
| Step 6 (M) | O-Cloud creates new NF Deployment instance. |  |
| Step 7(O) | The NFO receives information about the success/failure of the NF Deployment instantiation in the O-Cloud. |  |
| Step 8(M) | NF Deployment requests Operator PKI using the initial configuration with received one-time password to enroll certificates. |  |
| Step 9(M) | Operator PKI responds with enrolment certificate to the NF Deployment instance, including the trust anchors of the domains the node will communicate to. |  |
| Ends when | Initial configuration and enrolment certificate is configured for the new NF Deployment. |  |
| Exceptions | None identified |  |
| Post-conditions | Trust established between the Cloudified NF and SMO. |  |

None.

This solution addresses Key Issue #6: Initial Certificate Enrolment for new NFs.

REQ-SEC-CMF-VNF_CNF-X: SMO shall configure all the initial information for certificate enrolment procedure for NF Deployment.

# Conclusions

## Key Issue #41: CMPv2

The following proposed normative specifications support PKI certificate management protocol and procedures for an O-RAN PNF, VNF, or CNFs using PKI certificates:

An O-RAN PNF, VNF or CNF requiring a PKI certificate shall support CMPv2 as defined in RFC-4210 [i.5].

An O-RAN PNF, VNF, or CNF supporting CMPv2 shall have the URL, FQDN, and/or IP address for the RA/CA pre-configured or configurable. The RA/CA are defined in RFC-4210 [i.5]. For an instance of a PNF being configurable, an O-RAN PNF can be configured with the IP address or FQDN of one or more Certification Authority (CA/RA) servers using DHCP Option 43 as specified in clause 4.2.2 of 3GPP TS 32.509 [i.8].

## ACME as Optional Certificate Management Protocol

An O-RAN network function requiring a PKI certificate may optionally support ACME as defined in RFC-8555 [i.42] in addition to CMPv2. This is especially beneficial for use with O-Cloud implementations that currently often use ACME as a certificate management protocol via the ACME plugin for the cert-manager component of Kubernetes which is a common technology for dynamic o-cloud deployments.

The ACME solution as described in clause 4.4 addresses the following key issues:

1.	Key Issue #37: Lightweight solution (refer to clause 5.2 for details)

2.	Key Issue #38: Interoperability (refer to clause 5.3 for details)

## Usage of PSK/Refnum for initial certificate enrolmentenrolment for PNFs, CNFs and VNFs

This clause presents conclusions for solutions #1 and #10.

As described in RFC 4210 [i.5] Section 4.2.2.2 Basic Authenticated Scheme, Initial Authentication Key (IAK) and reference value can be used for initial certificate enrolment using CMPv2. In this document, IAK is referred to as PSK (Pre-shared Key) and reference value is referred to as Refnum.

For backward compatibility, PSK/Refnum-based initial certificate enrolment can be used for PNFs.

Based on the potential security requirements proposed in clause 4.1.4 and 4.10.4, the following normative security requirement can be added to the O-RAN security requirements specification:

Any offline or out-of-band (automated or manual) PSK/Refnum generation, distribution and provisioning systems implemented by the operator should ensure that no rogue PNF/CNF/VNF can obtain valid PSK/Refnum values.

## Vendor root CA certificate renewal notification

This clause proposes conclusions for solution #8, which addresses key issue #8.

A new security requirement can be added in O-RAN security requirements specifications for the potential security requirement proposed in clause 5.8.4 of this Technical Report.

Also, it is recommended that operators monitor notifications which may be raised when vendor root CA certificate is about to expire and take appropriate actions to ensure that there is no impact on system availability.

Proposed new security requirement:

PNFs which use vendor-signed certificates for initial certificate enrolment should monitor the expiry of the vendor root CA certificate used to sign the certificate. When the expiry of the vendor root CA certificate is approaching, PNFs should raise notifications (alarms) with increasing levels of severity as the expiry date gets closer.

## Initial certificate enrolment for PNFs using vendor certificates

This clause proposes conclusions for solution #5, which addresses Key Issue #3 and Key Issue #4.

New security requirements can be added in O-RAN security requirements specifications for the potential security requirements proposed in clause 5.5.4 of this Technical Report.

## Certificate renewal procedure

This clause proposes conclusions for solution #11, which addresses key issue #42.

New security requirement can be added in O-RAN security requirements specifications for the potential security requirements proposed in clause 5.11.4 of this Technical Report.

## RA and CA as separate logical entities

This clause proposes conclusions for solution #13, which addresses key issue #1.

No new security requirements are required for this because it is up to the operator to make a decision whether to deploy RA and CA as independent entities or in an integrated manner.

## EST as Optional Certificate Management Protocol

An O-RAN element requiring a X.509 certificate may optionally support EST as defined in RFC-7030 [i.32] in addition to CMPv2. This is especially beneficial in scenarios where the environment does not require a complex PKI infrastructure for certificate management and also offers a practical solution in scenarios where an O-RAN network element lacks digital certificate bootstrapping or is missing CA information for enrolment. The EST solution as described in clause 5.3 addresses the following key issues:

- Key Issue #37: Lightweight solution (refer to clause 5.2 for details)

## Use of BRSKI in O-RAN

No normative specifications are necessary for BRSKI as described in Solution #2, which address key issues #1, #2, #10, #37, #38, and #41.

See Clause 5.2.3 Solution Evaluation for further information.

## Mitigating the risk of system overload due to bulk certificate update

No normative specifications are necessary to address Solution #9, which addresses key issue #13.

See Clause 5.9.3 Solution Evaluation for further information on best practices to mitigate the risk of system overload due to a bulk certificate update.

## Key Issue #20: Certificate Management and Secure Storage of Private Keys

Based on solution #6 which is detailed in clause 5.6 of the present document, following conclusions are made on the Key-Issue #20 “Certificate Management and Secure Storage of Applications Private Keys”:

For the evaluation two different solution concepts will be considered.

The first concept is the based on an O-Cloud platform hosting a ‘Secure Storage Resource Manager (SSRM)’. This SSRM is managing the interface to either the SW based or HW based secure storage solution. On the north-bound interface the SSRM is providing a common Secure Storage API that can be used by application to request service from the SSRM, while on the south-bound interface the SSRM is hiding the underlying method for key and file storage. The private key is never leaving the secure key storage and any service request that involves the private key is going via the SSRM.

### Evaluation and Assessment for local security module managed by SSRM within the O-Cloud

Advantages:

- Compliance Requirements: Certain regulatory frameworks may require the use of local security modules (e.g., HSM [i.6], [i.46]) for specific security controls. Utilizing a local security module can help meet compliance requirements.
- Reduced Dependency: By having a local security module, organizations reduce their reliance on external systems or services, providing greater control over key management.
Considerations:

- Higher Cost: Security modules are specialized devices and can be more expensive to acquire and maintain compared to using a KMS.
- Limited Scalability: Local security modules have finite capacity, and scaling may require additional security modules or infrastructure investments.
- Operational Complexity: Local security modules require dedicated management, configuration, and maintenance, which may add complexity to the overall O-Cloud architecture and administration.
The second concept is based on a remote Key Management System (KMS). The KMS is external to the O-Cloud, which means it is located outside of the O-Cloud infrastructure. It is responsible for storing and managing private keys by an HSM and issuing key-encryption keys which are used to protect the secure storage volumes.

### Evaluation and Assessment for the KMS

Advantages:

- Key Lifecycle Management: KMS solutions often include features for key rotation, revocation, and auditing, enabling effective key lifecycle management.
- Integration with O-Cloud: KMS solutions offered by cloud service providers can seamlessly integrate with other cloud services, simplifying key management in O-Cloud.
Considerations:

- Dependence on External Service: Utilizing a KMS requires reliance on an external service, which may introduce dependencies and potential availability concerns. Organizations need to ensure proper backup and disaster recovery measures.
- Data Privacy: With a KMS, cryptographic key material is stored and managed by a third-party service. Organizations should consider the privacy implications and evaluate the trustworthiness of the KMS provider.

### Conclusion

It is concluded to go for normative work based on the O-Cloud with local security modules managed by an embedded Secure Storage Resource Manager (SSRM). A local security module offers enhanced physical protection and security measures for cryptographic keys, making it a robust solution for safeguarding sensitive information within the O-Cloud infrastructure. Solution #6 can be referred to as one potential solution for normative work for key issue #20.

Rationale: By using a local security module, it can be ensured that the cryptographic keys remain within the boundaries of the O-Cloud environment, reducing reliance on external services and enhancing control over key management. While a local HSM may introduce certain considerations such as cost, scalability, and operational complexity, the benefits of its enhanced security and compliance adherence can outweigh these factors in security-sensitive environments like O-Cloud.

## Cert Profile for O-RAN TLS Entity

This clause proposes conclusions for solution #12, which addresses key issue #33.

New security requirements can be added in O-RAN Protocol Specifications for the potential security requirements proposed in clause 5.12.4 of this Technical Report.

The certificate profile defined in clause 5.12.3 of this Technical Report can be applied O-RAN NFs (PNF/VNF/CNF) and O-RAN interfaces that use the TLS protocol for establishing secured communication.

## Certificate enrollment for new NF Deployment using CMPv2

This clause proposes conclusions for solution #15, which addresses key issue #6.

Based on the potential security requirements proposed in clause 5.15.4, the following normative security requirement can be added to the O-RAN security requirements and control specification:

The certificate enrollment procedure for NF deployment defined in clause 5.15.1 of this Technical Report should be applied to O-RAN NFs (VNF/CNF) for establishing secure communication.

## Key Issue #28: Risk of Service un-availability due to root CA Certificate updates for CNFs and VNFs

This clause proposes conclusions for key issue #28. Solution #3, Solution #4, Solution #6 and Solution #7 can be used as basis for normative work for this key issue #28.

Accordingly, following principles can be followed to address the threats described in key issue #28:

- As described in solution #3, solution #5 and solution #7, automated certificate lifecycle management using protocols like CMPv2 or ACME or EST can be supported by O-Cloud in order to ensure that root CA certificate updates do not lead to service un-availability.
- Solution #6 descriptions include potential requirements for O-Cloud to support automated renewal processes during PKI migration, and integration with trusted CAs.
- The potential requirements from these solutions can be used as basis for further normative specifications.

# Key Issues-Solutions mapping

This clause contains the mapping of the proposed solutions to the key issues.

|  | Sol. #1 | Sol. #2 | Sol. #3 | Sol. #4 | Sol. #5 | Sol. #6 | Sol. #7 | Sol. #8 | Sol. #9 | Sol. #10 | Sol. #11 | Sol. #12 | Sol. #13 | Sol. #14 | Sol. #15 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Key issue #1 |  | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Key issue #2 | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Key issue #3 |  | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Key issue #4 | VOID |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Key issue #5 | VOID |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Key issue #6 | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Key issue #7 | VOID |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Key issue #8 |  | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Key issue #9 | VOID |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Key issue #10 |  | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Key issue #11 | VOID |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Key issue #12 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Key issue #13 |  | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Key issue #14 | VOID |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Key issue #15 | VOID |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Key issue #16 | VOID |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Key issue #17 | VOID |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Key issue #18 |  | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Key issue #19 |  | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Key issue #20 |  | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Key issue #21 |  | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Key issue #22 |  | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Key issue #23 |  | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Key issue #24 |  | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Key issue #25 |  | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Key issue #26 |  | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Key issue #27 |  | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Key issue #28 |  | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Key issue #29 |  | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Key issue #30 |  | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Key issue #31 | VOID |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Key issue #32 | VOID |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Key issue #33 |  | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Key issue #34 | VOID |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Key issue #35 | VOID |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Key issue #36 |  | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Key issue #37 | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Key issue #38 |  | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Key issue #39 |  | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Key issue #40 | VOID |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Key issue #41 |  | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Key issue #42 |  | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Key issue #43 | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG11.TR.O-CLOUD-Security.0-R004-v08.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG11.TR.O-CLOUD-Security.0-R004-v08.00"
---

##### O2 interface

Two main interfaces are defined in O-RAN WG6 specification and identified as critical assets of O-Cloud, i.e. interfaces O2 between O-Cloud and SMO. The threats on these interfaces are as follows.

| Threat ID | T-O2-01 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | MitM attacks on O2 interface between O-Cloud and SMO |
| Threat description | If the interface O2 interface is not protected, an attacker can attack all the requests/responses sent between the O-Cloud and the SMO (FOCOM and NFO).  For example, the attacker can tamper/alter/disclose requests and services (See ‘Critical services’ in 2.3) sent over O2 between O-Cloud and SMO, hence the virtualized resource or relevant status information is not as requested. This affects the normal operation of the O-Cloud, and even causes DoS attacks, information leakage. An attacker can tamper the specific assignment of virtualized resources to cause resource assignment errors or an attacker can intercept virtualized resources state information leading to information disclosure. An attacker can compromise IMS to tamper with the hardware state information (e.g. deleting hardware alarm information) to affect the hardware's operation or to result in information disclosure (e.g. an attacker can get the hardware configuration from the compromised IMS. Then, the attacker can attack the hardware according to the configuration such as CPU type, memory size etc.). An attacker can also tamper or intercept the hardware resource configuration and state information if the configuration and state information are transmitted using an insecure protocol on the O2 interface. |
| Threat type | Tampering, Information disclosure, Denial of Service |
| Vulnerabilities | Insecure O2 interface, lack authentication |
| Impact type | Integrity, Confidentiality, Availability |
| Threatened Assets | Telemetry, provisioning, logs, software management, performance information |
| Affected Services | SERV#01 |
| Potential mitigations | REC-NS Network Segmentation & Filter Network Traffic REC-IAM Identity, Authentication, and Access Management REC-CM Certificate management REC-SCONF Security Configuration |

##### O-Cloud API

| Threat ID | T-OCAPI-01 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | MitM attacks on O-Cloud interface between VNFs/CNFs and the virtualization layer |
| Threat description | An attacker can attack an instantiated VNF/CNF through a compromised virtualization layer. For example, cryptographic keys or other security critical data of an instantiated VNF/CNF could be stolen by an attacker with access to the virtualization layer, or the virtualized resource provided by the Virtualization layer to the instantiated VNF/CNF can be manipulated or the bootloader of Guest OS (in case of VM) or Container of an instantiated VNF/CNF can be tampered by an attacker via a compromised virtualization layer. |
| Threat type | Tampering, Information disclosure, Denial of Service |
| Vulnerabilities | Insecure O-Cloud APIs, lack of authentication |
| Impact type | Integrity, Confidentiality, Availability |
| Threatened Assets | Host OS, Hypervisor/Container Engine and VNFs/CNFs (Near RT RIC, O-CU, O-DU) |
| Affected Services | SERV#01, SERV#03, SERV#04, SERV#05, SERV#06, SERV#07 |
| Potential mitigations | REC-NS Network Segmentation & Filter Network Traffic REC-IAM Identity, Authentication, and Access Management REC-CM Certificate management REC-SCONF Security Configuration REC-SS Secure Storage REC-PHY Physical Security Protection |

#### Threats concerning hardware resources

| Threat ID | T-HW-01 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Cross VM/Container side channel attacks |
| Threat description | In a typical cross-VM/Container side channel attack scenario, an adversary places a malicious VM/Container co-resident to the target VM/Container so that they share the same hardware resources. Then, the attacker extracts useful information such as cryptographic keys from the target VM/Container to use them for traffic eavesdropping and man-in-the-middle attacks. Through the side channel attack, an attacker sharing the same cache as the victim can monitor the cache access behavior of the victim. For example, the attacker is able to monitor cache timing information by measuring the execution of different operations on the victim’s VM/Container. Generally, the attacker exploits timings in the shared high-level cache memory. However, power consumption or electromagnetic leaks can also be used as a vector to launch side channel attacks. In the virtual environment, prior to the cross-VM/Container side channel attack, the attacker needs to identify the target VM/Container’s location and place a malicious VM/Container co-resident with the target. Later, that attacker may use the maliciously placed VM/Container to extract information from the target VM/Container with the side channel attack. Hardware vulnerabilities in processors can also have a large impact on O-Cloud security. Flaws in chip design can result in the compromise of tenant information in the cloud through side-channel attacks. |
| Threat type | Tampering, Information disclosure, Denial of Service |
| Vulnerabilities | Flaws in chip design, use of shared hardware, Lack of isolation, lack of authentication |
| Impact type | Integrity, Confidentiality, Availability |
| Threatened Assets | Sensitive data (e.g. passwords, private keys, subscription data, logs), VNFs/CNFs (Near RT RIC, O-CU, O-DU) related data |
| Affected Services | SERV#01, SERV#03, SERV#04, SERV#05, SERV#06, SERV#07 |
| Potential mitigations | REC-ISO Strong Isolation REC-PHY Physical Security Protection REC-IAM Identity, Authentication, and Access Management REC-CM Certificate management REC-SS Secure Storage |

Figure 7-10 : Illustration of a cross VM/Container side channel attack

| Threat ID | T-HW-02 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | MitM attacks on the interface between virtualization layer and hardware |
| Threat description | An attacker can utilize the vulnerabilities of hardware (e.g. Meltdown and Specter of CPU in host) to attack virtualization layer and/or VNFs/CNFs through this interface, resulting in tampering, information disclosure or DoS. |
| Threat type | Tampering, Information disclosure, Denial of Service |
| Vulnerabilities | Insecure interfaces between HW and VL layers, lack of authentication, misconfiguration |
| Impact type | Integrity, Confidentiality, Availability |
| Threatened Assets | All assets |
| Affected Services | All services |
| Potential mitigations | REC-PHY Physical Security Protection REC-NS Network Segmentation & Filter Network Traffic REC-IAM Identity, Authentication, and Access Management REC-CM Certificate management |

#### Threats concerning O-Cloud management (SMO, NFO, FOCOM)

| Threat ID | T-ADMIN-01 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Denial of service against NFO/FOCOM |
| Threat description | A denial-of-service attack against the NFO/FOCOM can interfere with the ability of operators to control and maintain their deployments. This can lead to the inability to react to changing resource requirements. In addition, the NFO/FOCOM is the external API to interact with the O-Cloud platform. Thus, other services may become inaccessible as well. For example, operators may be unable to retrieve logs, telemetry data. An attacker could use this opportunity to hide additional attacks on VM/Container instances. In addition, an attacker on the NFO/FOCOM could prevent the O-Cloud software update to exploit a known security flaw in the O-Cloud software. |
| Threat type | Denial of Service |
| Vulnerabilities | Lack of authentication, vulnerable code exploits, design weakness, insecure O2 interface |
| Impact type | Availability |
| Threatened Assets | VM/Container images, VNF/CNF, host OS, Hypervisor/Container Engine software |
| Affected Services | SERV#02, SERV#05 |
| Potential mitigations | REC-IAM Identity, Authentication and Access Management REC-CM Certificate management REC-AUD Security Audit REC-SCONF Security Configuration |

| Threat ID | T-ADMIN-02 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Abuse an O-Cloud administration service |
| Threat description | Usually, the SMO including NFO/FOCOM is exposed to the tenant in a web front-end or REST API. In case these interfaces contain software vulnerabilities or implement authentication and authorization insufficiently, an adversary would be able to gain access to the VM/Container management and pose as a tenant. It is also possible that an adversary gains the ability to submit requests without prior authentication and authorization. The NFO/FOCOM interfaces encompass a great deal of privileges because anyone gaining sufficient access is able to deploy new instances and disrupt existing O-Cloud services. It may also be possible for an adversary to submit compromised VM/Container images that unsuspecting tenants then use to initiate O-Cloud services. Moreover, adversaries can use the same access to extract business data, configuration data, user data and possibly credentials. For example, they may be able to create backups of VM/Container instances or they can export VM/Container images. The impact of compromised credentials is exacerbated by the fact that weak and insufficient safeguarding of credentials is recognized as one of the top threats in cloud computing [i.38]. Container example: Adversaries may abuse a container administration service to execute commands within a container. A container administration service such as the Docker daemon, the Kubernetes API server, or the kubelet may allow remote management of containers within an environment. Container example: In Docker, adversaries may specify an entrypoint during container deployment that executes a script or command, or they may use a command such as docker exec to execute a command within a running container. In Kubernetes, if an adversary has sufficient permissions, they may gain remote execution in a container in the cluster via interaction with the Kubernetes API server, the kubelet, or by running a command such as kubectl exec. |
| Threat type | Tampering, Information disclosure, Denial of Service and Elevation of privilege |
| Vulnerabilities | Lack of authentication, secret exposure (insufficient safeguarding of credentials), vulnerable code exploits, design weakness |
| Impact type | Integrity, Confidentiality, Availability, Authorization |
| Threatened Assets | VNF/CNF, host OS, Hypervisor/Container Engine software and related information |
| Affected Services | SERV#03, SERV#04, SERV#06, SERV#07 |
| Potential mitigations | REC-NS Network Segmentation & Filter Network Traffic REC-IAM Identity, Authentication, and Access Management REC-CM Certificate management REC-AUD Security Audit REC-SCONF Security Configuration REC-VHPM Vulnerability Handling and Patch Management |

#### Threats concerning Acceleration Abstraction Layer (AAL)

| Threat ID | T-AAL-01 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Attacker exploits insecure API to gain access to hardware accelerator resources |
| Threat description | Insecure AAL API allows an attacker to tamper the requests/responses sent between the AAL components, the O-Cloud platform and O-RAN APPs/VNFs/CNFs.  For example, the attacker can tamper requests and services sent over AALI-C-Mgmt between IMS and the hardware accelerator manager, hence capability of the hardware accelerator device, fault information, logs, performance information and others are not as requested. This affects the normal operation of the O-Cloud, and even causes tampering. An attacker can tamper application (e.g. O-DU) requests sent over AALI-C-App to an AAL implementation for allocation of buffers. This affects the normal operation of the applications, and even causes tampering. An attacker can tamper with application (e.g. O-DU) requests sent over AALI-P for configuring and managing the AAL-LPU(s). This affects the normal operation of the applications, and even causes tampering. |
| Threat type | Tampering |
| Vulnerabilities | Insecure AAL APIs and interfaces, lack of authentication and authorization |
| Impact type | Integrity |
| Threatened Assets | Data in transit AALI-C-App & AALI-P interfaces, Data in transit vendor specific interface, AAL profiles, AAL-LPUs, Stored AAL data, AAL software, Device firmware |
| Affected Services | SERV#03, SERV#04, SERV#06, SERV#07 |
| Potential mitigations | REC-IAM Identity, Authentication and Access Management REC-LOG Logging, Monitoring and Alerting |

| Threat ID | T-AAL-02 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Internal Overload DoS attack targeting AAL services |
| Threat description | Overload situation could appear in the case of DoS attack or increased traffic on AAL interfaces. Inability to mitigate traffic volumetric attacks on AAL affects availability of AAL data and services. DoS attacks on the AALI-C interface affect the different services provided by the hardware accelerator manager and the transport abstraction framework. DoS attacks on the AALI-P interface affect the configuration and management of AAL-LPU (Acceleration Abstraction Layer Logical Processing Unit) by an application (e.g. O-DU) in addition to acceleration functionality. |
| Threat type | Denial of Service |
| Vulnerabilities | Insecure AAL APIs and interfaces, lack of authentication and authorization |
| Impact type | Availability |
| Threatened Assets | AAL profiles, AAL-LPUs, Stored AAL data, AAL software, Device firmware |
| Affected Services | SERV#03, SERV#04, SERV#06, SERV#07 |
| Potential mitigations | REC-IAM Identity, Authentication and Access Management REC-LOG Logging, Monitoring and Alerting |

| Threat ID | T-AAL-03 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Fail to clear resources |
| Threat description | Failure to clear accelerator resources after a process termination can cause an information leakage and incorrect results for computations. Further, failure to release accelerator resources may prevent other processes from running. This threat is relevant to accelerator resources either inside the hardware accelerator device (internal memories, registers, cache) or in the O-Cloud memories used by accelerators. |
| Threat type | Information disclosure, Denial of service |
| Vulnerabilities | Lack of secure deletion of data after process termination, Insecure AAL APIs, Flaws in AAL design |
| Impact type | Confidentiality, Availability |
| Threatened Assets | AAL profiles, AAL-LPUs, Stored AAL data, AAL software, Device firmware |
| Affected Services | SERV#03, SERV#06, SERV#07 |
| Potential mitigations | REC-LOG, REC-SS, REC-PHY, REC-SDD |

| Threat ID | T-AAL-04 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | HAM compromise |
| Threat description | A malicious actor can gain access to HAM to gain unauthorized access and control of the hardware accelerator device. This can result in the disruption of services (DoS) and tampering of accelerator components, such as firmware, drivers which can cause the accelerator to behave abnormally or crash altogether. |
| Threat type | Tampering, Denial of service |
| Vulnerabilities | Lack of access control, Insecure HAM APIs, Flaws in HAM design |
| Impact type | Integrity, Availability |
| Threatened Assets | Data in transit AALI-C-App & AALI-P interfaces, Data in transit vendor specific interface, AAL profiles, AAL-LPUs, Stored AAL data, AAL software, Device firmware |
| Affected Services | SERV#03, SERV#06, SERV#07 |
| Potential mitigations | REC-LOG, REC-SS, REC-PHY, REC-SDD |

| Threat ID | T-AAL-05 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Malicious memory accesses |
| Threat description | AAL that allows one process running on the hardware accelerator device to access memory owned by another process running on the hardware accelerator device can leak information (impact on confidentiality). Similarly, AAL allowing concurrently executing processes to write to one another’s memory may have correctness errors (impact on integrity). If multiple processes are running concurrently and one is allowed to dominate accelerator resources, the other may suffer from degraded performance. For example, if one process can evict all cache entries belonging to the other, the victim will suffer performance penalties (impact on availability). |
| Threat type | Information disclosure, Tampering, Denial of service |
| Vulnerabilities | Unrestricted memory access, Lack of access control, Insecure AAL APIs, Flaws in AAL design |
| Impact type | Confidentiality, Integrity, Availability |
| Threatened Assets | AAL profiles, AAL-LPUs, Stored AAL data, AAL software, Device firmware |
| Affected Services | SERV#03, SERV#06, SERV#07 |
| Potential mitigations | REC-LOG, REC-SS, REC-PHY, REC-SDD, REC-ISO |

| Threat ID | T-AAL-06 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Firmware attacks |
| Threat description | Hardware accelerators often have their own firmware, which can be targeted by attackers. This could include modifying the firmware to introduce vulnerabilities (e.g., malware) or installing malicious firmware to extract/modify sensitive information or execute unauthorized actions (e.g., control the device remotely). |
| Threat type | Information disclosure, Tampering |
| Vulnerabilities | Weak accelerator design, Misconfiguration, Insecure AAL/HAM APIs |
| Impact type | Confidentiality, Integrity |
| Threatened Assets | AAL profiles, AAL-LPUs, Stored AAL data, AAL software, Device firmware |
| Affected Services | SERV#03, SERV#06, SERV#07 |
| Potential mitigations | REC-LOG, REC-SS, REC-PHY, REC-SDD, REC-ISO |

#### Threats concerning O-Cloud instance ID

| Threat ID | T-O-CLOUD-ID-01 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | ID reuse in O-Cloud's object lifecycle |
| Threat description | In O-Cloud, objects such as Containers, Pods, Nodes, and Services are identified by their IDs within a given compute pool (e.g., cluster in Kubernetes). When an object is deleted, its ID becomes available for reuse. This means that a new object can be created with the same ID as a previously deleted object. If an object gets deleted but all its associated data isn't properly isolated or cleaned, the ID, if reused, could lead to unintended data associations or leaks. Potential consequences: Data Residue: A new object, reusing an ID, may inherit residual data or configurations from its predecessor, leading to potential misconfigurations and incorrect data associations. This can result in sensitive data exposure. Data Overwrite: Automated processes unaware of the deletion and subsequent recreation might mistakenly write or read data from the new object, thinking it's the old one. Monitoring Ambiguities: Monitoring tools might combine metrics from the old and new objects, resulting in confusing data. Operational Disruptions: The new object might operate based on the residual configurations of the old object, potentially leading to system inefficiencies or failures. |
| Threat type | Tampering, Information disclosure |
| Vulnerabilities | Predictable ID generation, Insufficient logging or auditing, Insufficient ID validation |
| Impact type | Integrity, Confidentiality |
| Threatened Assets | O-Cloud Provisioning information, Software components at runtime and their associated data, Security event logs |
| Affected Services | SERV#04, SERV#05 |
| Potential mitigations | REC-IDM O-Cloud ID secure management |

| Threat ID | T-O-CLOUD-ID-02 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Node redundancy in O-Cloud deployments |
| Threat description | Nodes in O-Cloud often represent physical or virtual machines. If a machine fails and is replaced without deleting its corresponding Node object, and the new machine is given the same ID or the hostname, O-Cloud might treat the new machine as if it were the original. Potential consequences: Resource Mismatch: The new host might have different resources (CPU, memory, storage) than the old one, leading to scheduling issues or resource constraints. Stale Data: The new node might inherit data or configurations from the old node, leading to potential security or operational risks. Network Issues: Network configurations or IP address assignments might be inconsistent or conflicting. |
| Threat type | Spoofing, Tampering, Information disclosure, Denial of Service |
| Vulnerabilities | Lack of node validation, Inadequate resource allocation and monitoring, Lack of network configuration verification |
| Impact type | Authenticity, Integrity, Confidentiality, Availability |
| Threatened Assets | O-Cloud Provisioning information, Software components at runtime and their associated data, Security event logs |
| Affected Services | SERV#04, SERV#05 |
| Potential mitigations | REC-IDM O-Cloud ID secure management |

| Threat ID | T-O-CLOUD-ID-03 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | O-Cloud ID mismanagement |
| Threat description | IDs are crucial for uniquely identifying objects within the O-Cloud. Mismanagement occurs when these IDs are not properly assigned, tracked, or validated, leading to potential overlaps or inconsistencies. Potential consequences: ID Collision: Due to system glitches or bugs, two distinct objects could inadvertently be allocated the same ID. Such an occurrence is termed an ID collision. This can result in operations meant for one object inadvertently affecting the other. Resource Overwrite: If two objects share the same ID, updates or modifications intended for one might overwrite the data of the other, leading to data inconsistencies or loss. ID-Based Permissions: Many security protocols and access controls in O-Cloud can be tied to object IDs. If an attacker can predict, guess, or manipulate the ID generation process, they might gain unauthorized access to resources. Log Merging: Monitoring tools and logging systems use IDs to track events and operations related to specific objects. If two objects share an ID, their logs might get merged, making it challenging to trace events back to their source. RBAC Anomalies: Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) regulations attached to specific object IDs could unintentionally approve or restrict access to the novel object due to misidentification. |
| Threat type | Spoofing, Tampering, Information Disclosure, Repudiation, Elevation of Privilege, Denial of Service |
| Vulnerabilities | Inefficient ID assignment algorithm, Lack of validation checks during the ID assignment or object creation process, Weak or absent monitoring of ID lifecycle, Insufficient randomization in ID generation, Lack of timely updates to RBAC policies, Lack of ID collision detection |
| Impact type | Authenticity, Integrity, Non-repudiability, Confidentiality, Availability, Authorization |
| Threatened Assets | O-Cloud Provisioning information, Software components at runtime and their associated data, Security event logs |
| Affected Services | SERV#04, SERV#05 |
| Potential mitigations | REC-IDM O-Cloud ID secure management |

#### Threats concerning time synchronization

| Threat ID | T-TS-01 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Time synchronization disruption in O-Cloud |
| Threat description | Disruption or manipulation of the time synchronization process within the O-Cloud can lead to severe security and operational issues. An attacker may target the time synchronization mechanisms to alter time settings across O-Cloud nodes, leading to: Impersonation of time synchronization server: An attacker may impersonate a legitimate time synchronization server, tricking nodes into accepting incorrect time data. This can cause nodes to synchronize with a malicious time source, leading to widespread time discrepancies. Data integrity loss: Inconsistent timestamps can corrupt logs and audit trails within the O-Cloud, making it difficult to trace and analyze security events accurately. Operational disruption: Time-sensitive operations within the O-Cloud may be disrupted, leading to data loss and service outages. Authentication and authorization bypass: Many security mechanisms in the O-Cloud rely on accurate time. Disrupted time synchronization can undermine token expiration, certificate validity, and other time-based access controls, potentially allowing unauthorized access to O-Cloud resources. EXAMPLE: Time-sensitive operations such as automated backups, scheduled tasks (e.g., resource scaling, patch management), and certificate renewals. NOTE: This threat is linked to the operation of CronJob resources as described in clause 4.3.1.1.6 of the O-RAN specification [i.65]. Any disruption or manipulation of the time synchronization process can severely impact scheduled operations managed by CronJobs within the O-Cloud. |
| Threat type | Spoofing, Tampering, Denial of Service and Elevation of privilege |
| Vulnerabilities | Insecure time synchronization protocols Insufficient authentication mechanisms and access controls for the time synchronization settings Misconfiguration of time synchronization settings on O-Cloud nodes |
| Impact type | Authenticity, Integrity, Availability and Authorization |
| Threatened Assets | Log and audit trails O-Cloud time synchronization settings |
| Affected Services | SERV#03, SERV#06, SERV#07 |
| Potential mitigations | REC-SCONF Security Configuration REC-IAM Identity, Authentication, and Access Management REC-CM Certificate management REC-LOG Logging, Monitoring, and Alerting |

# Recommendations and best practices

A large number of useful and relevant security guidelines and best practices exist that are relevant for VM/Container-based virtualization and cloud computing in general. Therefore, we provide them here collectively and highly recommend that readers consult them for additional references:

3GPP TS 33.848 Study on security impacts of virtualisation

MITRE containers matrix

CIS Critical Security Controls

CIS Docker Benchmark

CIS VMWARE Benchmark

ONAP master documentation

CISA/NSA Kubernetes security guidance

OpenStack security guide

Cloud native wiki by aqua

ANSSI “Recommandations de sécurité relatives aux déploiements de conteneur docker “

CISA/NSA “Security guidance for 5g cloud infrastructures” parts 1 to 4

GSMA NG.126 “Cloud Infrastructure Reference Model”

Docker best practices

FFTelecoms “Référentiel d'objectifs de sécurité en matière de fonctions réseau virtualisées “

Fraunhofer AISEC Threat analysis of container-as-a-service for network function virtualization

## REC-CM Certificate management

Recommendation: O-Cloud should support Public Key Cryptography for the purpose of distributing Public Key Certificates (PKC) for authenticating, authorizing, and encrypting links between components in O-Cloud. Each operator should develop a Certificate Policy in accordance with their regional and national requirements. In addition, Operators should setup a renewal procedure (preferably automatically) of certificates prior to their expiration.

In O-Cloud, the following scenarios are considered for certificate usage:

O-Cloud and VNFs/CNFs should employ certificates which can be used for images signing and verification during onboarding and registration.

SMO and VNF/CNF should employ certificates which can be used in order to establish secure connections between them.

SMO employs certificates in order to establish secure management connections with NFO and FOCOM.

O-Cloud infrastructure employs certificate(s) in order to establish secure connections with NFO and FOCOM through O2 interface.

Best practices to fulfill this recommendation:

| BP ID | Description |
| --- | --- |
| REC-CM-BP-1 | The certificate policy should be consistent with the Internet X.509 Certificate Policy and Certification Practices Framework as defined in IETF RFC 3647 [i.9]. |
| REC-CM-BP-2 | In order to eliminate or mitigate risks against attacks such as spoofing, tampering and information disclosure, secure connection can be established on all the interfaces within O-Cloud. IPsec and TLS mechanisms are widely deployed to protect the communication between O-Cloud components using certificates. |
| REC-CM-BP-3 | Certificate management in O-Cloud should be automated and manual operations should be avoided as much as possible. Automated certificate lifecycle management should be supported, i.e. creation, update and revocation of certificate. |
| REC-CM-BP-4 | It’s important to continuously monitor and audit certificates that are issued and active, with the ability to generate audits and keep on top of expirations and renewals to avoid any disruption in O-Cloud services. Unknown, rogue or non-complaint certificates can result in an unexpected outage, or worse, misuse that allows unintended access to O-Cloud components. |
| REC-CM-BP-5 | Securing the CAs that issue the certificates is critical. If a CA is compromised, attackers can issue their own identities that will be trusted by default across O-Cloud, and this can be extremely costly to remediate, as it effectively invalidates every identity issued by that CA. Hardware devices such as HSMs should be used to secure CA certificates and keys, ensure robust protection and complete visibility, policy enforcement, and automation for all certificates. |

For more details see ETSI GR NFV-SEC 005 [i.10].

This recommendation can help to mitigate: T-GEN-02, T-GEN-04, T-VM-C-01, T-VM-C-02, T-VM-C-03, T-VM-C-04, T-VM-C-05, T-IMG-01, T-IMG-02, T-IMG-04, T-VL-01, T-O2-01, T-OCAPI-01, T-HW-01, T-HW-02, T-ADMIN-01, T-ADMIN-02, T-TS-01

## REC-NS Network Segmentation & Filter Network Traffic

Recommendation: Physical and logical segmentation to prevent access to potentially sensitive O-Cloud components and information should be implemented. In addition, network policies should be defined to ensure a secure communication between VMs/Containers and limit the communication between VMs/Containers as much as possible to limit potential damage if a VM/Container is compromised.

Best practices to fulfill this recommendation:

| BP ID | Description |
| --- | --- |
| REC-NS-BP-1 | Isolate O-Cloud infrastructure components that do not require broad network access. |
| REC-NS-BP-2 | Configure access controls, network proxies, gateways, and firewalls to limit access to:  Critical O-Cloud components. Most cloud environments support separate virtual private cloud (VPC) instances that enable further segmentation of cloud systems. Systems used to create and manage accounts. |
| REC-NS-BP-3 | Follow best practices for network firewall and proxies configurations to allow only necessary ports and legitimate traffic to enter and exit the network. |
| REC-NS-BP-4 | Operate intrusion detection, analysis, and response systems on a separate network from the production environment to lessen the chances that an adversary can see and interfere with critical response functions. |
| REC-NS-BP-5 | Consider filtering DNS requests to unknown, untrusted, or known bad domains and resources. Resolving DNS requests with on-premise/proxy servers may also disrupt adversary attempts to conceal data within DNS packets. |
| REC-NS-BP-6 | Enforce proxies and use dedicated servers for services such as DNS and only allow those systems to communicate over respective ports/protocols, instead of all systems within a network. |
| REC-NS-BP-7 | Consider using IP allowlisting along with user account management to ensure that data access is restricted not only to valid users but only from expected IP ranges to mitigate the use of stolen credentials to access data. |
| REC-NS-BP-8 | Apply extended ACLs to block unauthorized protocols outside the trusted network. |
| REC-NS-BP-9 | Upon identifying a compromised network device being used to bridge a network boundary, block the malicious packets using an unaffected network device in path, such as a firewall or a router that has not been compromised. Continue to monitor for additional activity and to ensure that the blocks are indeed effective. |
| REC-NS-BP-10 | When flood volumes exceed the capacity of the network connection being targeted, it is typically necessary to intercept the incoming traffic upstream to filter out the attack traffic from the legitimate traffic. Such defenses can be provided by the hosting Internet Service Provider (ISP) or by a 3rd party such as a Content Delivery Network (CDN) or providers specializing in DoS mitigations. |
| REC-NS-BP-11 | Filter network traffic to prevent use of protocols across the network boundary that are unnecessary. |
| REC-NS-BP-12 | Use of network intrusion detection and prevention systems that can  Identify traffic patterns and use network signatures to identify traffic for specific adversary malware, can be used to mitigate malicious activity at the network level. Detect and prevent remote service scans. |

This recommendation can help to mitigate: T-GEN-02, T-GEN-06, T-VM-C-01, T-VM-C-02, T-VM-C-03, T-VM-C-04, T-IMG-02, T-VL-01, T-O2-01, T-OCAPI-01, T-HW-02, T-ADMIN-02

## REC-IAM Identity, Authentication and Access Management

Recommendation: A strong IAM framework should be in place to ensure authentication, authorization, accounting and access control. It should be used to initiate, capture, record and manage user identities and their related access permissions to O-Cloud assets in an automated way.

The IAM framework should be set up to manage and secure access to NFO/FOCOM, VNFs/CNFs, Host OS, Hypervisor, Container Engine, data and services that reside in the O-Cloud. This framework should protect credentials and accounts associated with O-Cloud platforms. Specifically, IAM protects root accounts for servers in the O-Cloud, limits privileged access to the O-Cloud control panel and governs ongoing access to privileged resources in the O-Cloud.

IAM should be based on Authentication, Authorization, and Accounting (AAA) systems and least privileges approach to limit actions administrators can perform and provide a history of user actions to detect unauthorized use and abuse.

Protocols without encryption/authentication mechanisms should not be used. Access to administrative and management interfaces from untrusted network sources should be limited.

Best practices to fulfill this recommendation:

| Req ID | Description |
| --- | --- |
| REC-IAM-BP-1 | OAuth2.0 with access token defined by IETF RFC 6749 [i.11] should be used for the authorization of API request and notifications. There are several existing Access Token solutions. Such solutions are Openstack Keystone, OpenID Connect, 3GPP authorization framework ETSI TS 133 501, IETF TLS-Based AccessToken Binding . For more details see ETSI GR NFV-SEC 022 [i.12]. |
| REC-IAM-BP-2 | O-Cloud components must support authenticated and secure access to API, GUI and command line interfaces. In addition, they must support Traffic Filtering (for example, FireWall, IDS/IPS). |
| REC-IAM-BP-3 | O-Cloud interfaces should support secure and encrypted communications, and confidentiality and integrity of network traffic on all channels. All APIs access must use TLS protocol, including back-end APIs [i.45]. |
| REC-IAM-BP-4 | O-Cloud components should implement controls enforcing separation of duties and privileges, least privilege use and least common mechanism (e.g. Role-Based Access Control). Communication between different trust domains is not allowed, by default. The O-Cloud infrastructure must not allow the effect of an attack on one trust domain to impact the other domains either directly or indirectly. |
| REC-IAM-BP-5 | The O-Cloud should not reuse the same authentication credential (e.g., key-pair) on different components (e.g., on different hosts, or different services). The O-Cloud should protect all secrets by using strong encryption techniques and storing the protected secrets externally from the component. The O-Cloud should provide secrets dynamically as and when needed. |
| REC-IAM-BP-6 | Data Centre Operations staff and O-Cloud components should use management protocols that limit security risk. Management protocols such as SNMPv3, SSH v2, ICMP, NTP, syslog, and TLS v1.2 or higher. |
| REC-IAM-BP-7 | Remotely available services that may be unnecessary should be disabled or blocked. Remote access to internal O-Cloud resources should be controlled using centrally managed concentrators such as VPNs and other managed remote access systems of network, proxies, gateways, and firewalls. Strong two-factor or multi-factor authentication for remote service accounts to mitigate an adversary's ability to leverage stolen credentials should be used. |
| REC-IAM-BP-8 | Ensure VM/Containers are not running as root by default. |
| REC-IAM-BP-9 | Do not allow domain administrator accounts (of Active directory) to be used for day-to-day operations that may expose them to potential adversaries on unprivileged systems. Consider using temporary credentials for accounts that are only valid for a certain period of time to reduce the effectiveness of compromised accounts. |
| REC-IAM-BP-10 | Limit access to the root account and prevent users from loading kernel modules and extensions through proper privilege separation and limiting Privilege Escalation opportunities. |
| REC-IAM-BP-11 | Container: Run the microservice with the least privilege possible; First, never use the --privileged flag. It gives all so-called capabilities to the container, and it can access host devices (/dev) including disks, and also has access to the /sys and /proc filesystem. And with a little work the container can even load kernel modules on the host. The good thing is that containers are per default unprivileged. You would have to configure them explicitly to run privileged. |
| REC-IAM-BP-12 | When Administrative Shell is necessary, restrict Administrative Shell execution policy to administrators. Be aware that there are methods of bypassing the Administrative Shell execution policy, depending on environment configuration. |
| REC-IAM-BP-13 | Least privilege principles: Use the principal of least privilege and protect administrative access to domain trusts such as the service account in Kubernetes, Openstacks, etc. to limit impact of exploitation. Restrict administrator accounts to as few individuals as possible, following least privilege principles. Limit permissions associated with creating and modifying images or VMs/Containers based on the principle of least privilege. |
| REC-IAM-BP-14 | Prevent credential overlap across systems of administrator and privileged accounts. |
| REC-IAM-BP-15 | Ensure critical system files as well as those known to be abused by adversaries have restrictive permissions and are owned by an appropriately privileged account, especially if access is not required by users nor will inhibit system functionality. |
| REC-IAM-BP-16 | Audit domain and local accounts as well as their permission levels routinely to look for situations that could allow an adversary to gain wide access by obtaining credentials of a privileged account. These audits should also include if default accounts have been enabled, or if new local accounts are created that have not been authorized. |
| REC-IAM-BP-17 | Do not put user or admin domain accounts in the local administrator groups across systems unless they are tightly controlled, as this is often equivalent to having a local administrator account with the same password on all systems. |
| REC-IAM-BP-18 | Do not allow remote access to services as a privileged account unless necessary. |
| REC-IAM-BP-19 | Do not allow remote access via SSH as root or other privileged accounts. |
| REC-IAM-BP-20 | Restrict execution of particularly vulnerable binaries to privileged accounts or groups that need to use it to lessen the opportunities for malicious usage. |
| REC-IAM-BP-21 | Ensure that any accounts used by third-party providers to access these systems are traceable to the third-party and are not used throughout the network or used by other third-party providers in the same environment. Ensure there are regular reviews of accounts provisioned to these systems to verify continued business need and ensure there is governance to trace de-provisioning of access that is no longer required. Ensure proper system and access isolation for critical network systems through use of account privilege separation. |
| REC-IAM-BP-22 | A Cloud Access Security Broker (CASB) can be used to set usage policies and manage user permissions on cloud applications to prevent access to application access tokens. |
| REC-IAM-BP-23 | Password policy O-Cloud components that utilize default username and password should be changed immediately after the installation, and before deployment to a production environment. When possible, passwords should be updated periodically and properly secured. (Refer to NIST guidelines when creating password policies NIST Special Publication 800-63B, CIS Password Policy Guide). Use strong passwords to increase the difficulty of credential hashes from being cracked if they are obtained. Do not reuse local administrator account passwords across systems. Ensure password complexity and uniqueness such that the passwords cannot be cracked or guessed. In case SSH is used with password (not recommended), Ensure SSH key pairs have strong passwords and refrain from using key-store technologies such as ssh-agent unless they are properly protected. Consider rotating access keys within a certain number of days to reduce the effectiveness of stolen credentials. Use strong passphrases for private keys to make cracking difficult. Do not store credentials within the Registry. Establish an organizational policy that prohibits password storage in files. Ensure that cloud accounts, particularly privileged accounts, have complex, unique passwords across all systems on the network. Passwords and access keys should be rotated regularly. This limits the amount of time credentials can be used to access resources if a credential is compromised without your knowledge. Cloud service providers may track access key age to help audit and identify keys that may need to be rotated. |

This recommendation can help to mitigate: T-GEN-02, T-GEN-04, T-VM-C-01, T-VM-C-02, T-VM-C-03, T-VM-C-04, T-VM-C-05, T-IMG-01, T-IMG-02, T-IMG-04, T-VL-01, T-O2-01, T-OCAPI-01, T-HW-01, T-HW-02, T-ADMIN-01, T-ADMIN-02, T-TS-01

## REC-VHPM Vulnerability Handling and Patch Management

Recommendation: A vulnerability handling process should be in place to find potentially exploitable software vulnerabilities, to determine what types and levels of threat may use software exploits and 0-days against O-Cloud and to remediate them.

A patch management process should be implemented to check unused dependencies, unmaintained and/or previously vulnerable dependencies, unnecessary features, components, files, and documentation.

Best practices to fulfill this recommendation:

| BP ID | Description |
| --- | --- |
| REC-VHPM-BP-1 | Regularly scan O-Cloud software components for vulnerabilities and establish procedures to rapidly patch systems when critical vulnerabilities are discovered through scanning and through public disclosure. |
| REC-VHPM-BP-2 | Regularly scan the internal network for available services to identify new and potentially vulnerable services. |
| REC-VHPM-BP-3 | Continuous monitoring of vulnerability sources and the use of automatic and manual code review tools should also be implemented as well. |
| REC-VHPM-BP-3 | Patch strategy shall be applied for each component to maintain the O-Cloud software.  The patch strategy should handle regular and emergency patches. It is also needed to be prepared for testing patches and rollback procedures. The patch strategy should be automated. It's also recommended to make use of plugins for monitoring software and notifying of pending patches. Keep in mind that some patches require a restart of their service, a new deployment (VM/Container image) or even a reboot (host) to become effective. If this won't be done, patching otherwise could be as effective as just not to patch. Technical details when to restart a service, a host or initiate a new deployment need to be defined in the patch strategy too. There are four different patch domains: Images: the VM/Container distribution Hypervisor/Container Engine software: e.g., VMware vSphere, Docker Orchestration software (Kubernetes, Mesos, OpenShift, ...) Host operating system |
| REC-VHPM-BP-4 | Maintain SBOMs for O-RAN software components in a centralized repository. This will make possible to quickly scan and search the SBOM for any Zero-Day vulnerability when get disclosed, which allows O-Cloud operator to respond quickly to the Zero-day vulnerability to mitigate potential attacks. For more details about SBOM see Clause 4 ‘SBOM Guidelines for O-RAN’ in [i.42]. |

This recommendation can help to mitigate: T-GEN-01, T-IMG-01, T-VL-01, T-ADMIN-02, T-O2-01, T-OCAPI-01

## REC-SCONF Security Configuration

Recommendation: The O-Cloud virtualization layer shall

Be configured to ensure conformance to industry standard benchmarks and requirements with respect to security configurations.

Use automated or manual mechanisms to detect configuration drifts/misconfigurations from industry standard benchmarks and requirements.

Best practices to fulfill this recommendation:

| BP ID | Description |
| --- | --- |
| REC-SCONF-BP-1 | O-Cloud virtualization layer should be configured to adhere/conform to industry standard benchmarks and guidelines for securing the virtualization layer. For example, the CIS benchmark guidelines enforce many security configurations related to the container deployment like:  Avoid running containers as privileged, apply the principle of least privilege access controls for privileged containers, and restrict functionality of privileged containers. Restrict containers from using hostPath volume mounts write permissions from within container. Enforce non-root default user in containers (using Kubernetes pod spec parameters or USER directive in Dockerfile). |
| REC-SCONF-BP-2 | O-Cloud operator & vendor should perform automated or manual scans to check security posture adherence to industry standard benchmarks. For example, Cloud Security Posture Management tools can be used to check conformance to industry standard benchmarks like CIS, NIST, etc. |
| REC-SCONF-BP-3 | O-Cloud CNF vendors should define the CPU and Memory requirements of their CNF applications, ie, the CPU and Memory requirements for the CNF applications to perform its functions under normal operating scenarios and the threshold limit value of CPU & Memory requirements beyond which the CNF should not be allowed to use. O-Cloud virtualization platform should consider the CPU & Memory resource requirements & limits associated to each CNF provided by O-Cloud CNF vendors during onboarding of the CNFs. |
| REC-SCONF-BP-4 | O-Cloud virtualization platform should consider enforcing the O-Cloud CNF vendors to specify the CPU & Memory resource requirements & limits using suitable admission controller solutions. Setting CPU & memory limits will help OCloud virtualization platform to avoid a rogue CNF container using up all resources thereby starving off other co-located CNF containers. |

This recommendation can help to mitigate: T-VM-C-01, T-VM-C-02, T-VM-C-06, T-VL-01, T-ADMIN-01, T-ADMIN-02, T-TS-01

## REC-SDLC Secure Development Lifecycle

Recommendation: Software providers should assume that their VNFs/CNFs and VL software contain flaws and have appropriate processes in place to mitigate these cases. To this end, they should adopt a secure software development life-cycle (S-SDLC). A S-SDLC integrates security considerations into the normal software development life-cycle. This ensures that risks, threats, and security mechanisms are formalized alongside the development of VNFs/CNFs and VL.

Best practices to fulfill this recommendation:

| Req ID | Description |
| --- | --- |
| REC-SDLC-BP-1 | Define and implement good coding practices. This includes writing documentation, adopting secure programming guidelines, enforcing code quality metrics and performing software tests. In particular, code quality and adherence to coding standards can be checked automatically with tools, such as SonarQube. With this approach, the chance of introducing easily exploitable vulnerabilities into the code is reduced. |
| REC-SDLC-BP-2 | Modern continuous integration (CI) and continuous delivery (CD) systems can be used to build new container images from code repositories, such as Git automatically. Thus, every commit can be used to generate a new container image that is immediately deployed for testing in a development environment. Once a new software version passes all tests, it can be deployed automatically to the O-Cloud platform. This step should be safeguarded by an internal approval process. For example, operators can configure their CI/CD pipeline to only start deployment in production after quality assurance, security testing and operations have approved the new version. |
| REC-SDLC-BP-3 | During development, developers may include private keys and configuration files with passwords into their VM/Container images for convenience and testing reasons. However, this information should never be published in a production VM/Container image. Thus, one of important step before actually deploying any VM/Container image to the O-Cloud platform is to verify that no sensitive information is included. In case of Docker, recent versions allow to specify these image differences between development and operations by using multiple FROM commands, i.e., one for development and one production in the respective Dockerfile. |
| REC-SDLC-BP-4 | Define mechanisms and processes that ensure that VM/Container image metadata is signed and verified. Thus, if operators download an image from a party they trust, they can verify the signature and the cryptographic hashes of the image files. Example: use of Docker Notary and Content Trust |

This recommendation can help to mitigate: T-GEN-01, T-IMG-01, T-IMG-03

## REC-SNFLC Security App/VNF/CNF lifecycle

Recommendation: Security in the life cycle management of Apps/VNFs/CNFs should be integrated during development, onboarding, instantiation, scaling, migration, and termination. Security lifecycle management must be adapted to work in a more dynamic environment with fast-changing network topology, data flow paths, and network addresses.

Best practices to fulfill this recommendation:

| Req ID | Description |
| --- | --- |
| REC-SNFLC-BP-1 | Before an App/VNF/CNF is deployed, the NFO/FOCOM system should verify compliance with its build-configuration standards. A check can include but is not limited to: Security of the configuration Whether the package contains only trusted and expected components Whether trusted components have been altered (integrity) |
| REC-SNFLC-BP-2 | Apps/VNFs/CNFs can easily be cloned and instantiated. As a result, a security framework must address the following elements: Depending on the migration technique, certificates, accounts, media access control addresses, or hardware IDs will look identical after cloning.  Trusted platform modules (e.g., TPM, HSM, Intel’s Trusted Execution Technology, or TXT) may be required to ensure that virtual components can provide attestation or a true status of the security of the underlying hardware and physical location. |

This recommendation can help to mitigate: T-GEN-03, T-VM-C-01, T-VM-C-02, T-VM-C-04, T-VM-C-06

## REC-IMGP Image Protection

Recommendation: Only images from secure and trusted sources should be used. These images should be scanned to ensure that images do not contain vulnerable software.

The App/VNF/CNF images shall not be packaged with embedded secrets such as passwords or credentials, or any other critical configuration data.

During the onboarding, the authenticity and integrity of the VNF Package should be verified against the signature provided by the VNF provider. Furthermore, Operators should undertake additional security validation of the VNF Package during the onboarding process and operator's signing should be used to certify the VNF as authorized to onboard into the operator's network [i.46], [i.47].

Best practices to fulfill this recommendation:

Image Scanning

Scanning process needs to identify when Apps/VNFs/CNFs are running with out-of-date packages that need to be updated for security patches. Further, it should identify malware that has been built into an image. The O-Cloud VL should enforce image scans to check and flag the presence of secrets in images.

VM/Container images need to be frequently scanned throughout the lifecycle of the App/VNF/CNF

| During Development | Within the registry | Before Deployment | During Runtime |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Perform frequent scanning for known vulnerability or misconfiguration on App/VNF/CNF image during build phase. E.g., Check for malware, secrets stored in image.  Ideal to automate with CI pipeline.   Responsible: O-RAN Solution Provider/Vendor | Regular scan for App/VNF/CNF image known vulnerability or misconfiguration stored in the registry. E.g., scan for new vulnerabilities after built.  Responsible: O-RAN Solution Provider/Vendor/Operator | Perform frequent scanning for known vulnerability or misconfiguration on App/VNF/CNF image before deployment using admission control techniques. Admission controller could block deployments if the image doesn’t comply with the operator security policies e.g., To check the images used to create CNF pods are secure by checking for malware.  Ideal to automate with CD pipeline.   Responsible: O-RAN Solution Provider/Vendor/Operator | Perform continuous scanning/monitoring for known vulnerability or misconfiguration on runtime workloads, check for any open ports, VM/Container escape.  Responsible: Operator/O-Cloud Operator |

As part of O-RAN App/VNF/CNF development, O-RAN Solution Provider/Vendor is recommended to choose base images and packages used in the O-RAN App/VNF/CNF from a trusted publisher or create in-house base images. Choosing trusted signed images helps to mitigate MITM attacks that can introduce vulnerabilities into the base images available in public registries.

As part of O-RAN App/VNF/CNF development, O-RAN Solution Provider/Vendor is recommended to choose minimal base images that bundle only the necessary system tools and libraries required by O-RAN App/VNF/CNF, to limit the attack surface of O-RAN App/VNF/CNF.

App/VNF/CNF Image Signing

Responsible: App/VNF/CNF Solution Provider/Vendor and/or Operator

App/VNF/CNF Solution Provider creates public/private key pair for code signing.

CA verifies public key belong to the owner and issue CA certificate with attached public key.

Hash function on App/VNF/CNF Image returns image Digest.

Image Digest is encrypted with private key.

Signed App/VNF/CNF Image contains CA Certificate, Digest, Hash function.

App/VNF/CNF Image Verification

Responsible: Operator or O-Cloud Operator

Verify CA certificate for authenticity.

Decrypt digest with public key

Compare Decrypted digest with Digest computed as result of Hash function on App/VNF/CNF Image.

Verification is successful if both digest matches.

Proposed Signing/Verification Models

Software signing by Solution Provider/Vendor, Software verification at runtime by O-Cloud Operator

Software signing by Solution Provider/Vendor, Software verification by operator before onboarding vendor images to the operator registry

Software signing by Operator, Software verification at runtime by O-Cloud Operator

Software signing by Solution Provider/Vendor, Software verification at runtime by O-Cloud Operator and/or Operator.

Software signing by solution provider/vendor, Software verification by Operator and software re-signing by Operator before onboarding vendor images to the operator registry, software verification at instantiation.

Other best practices:

Least privilege access that limits and controls access to the images’ repository and the repository of source code, secure storage, and automation for verifying the configuration of images before loading.

Utilize a trust model such as Docker Content Trust with digital signatures to ensure runtime verification of the integrity and publisher of specific image tags.

Implement only digitally signed host images to validate the integrity of the software used on the O-Cloud platform. Make use of this feature where possible in order to prevent and/or detect attempts by adversaries to compromise the host image.

The registry is most sensitive part of the system and should be run in an HSM.

The App/VNF/CNF images shall not be packaged with embedded secrets such as passwords or credentials, or any other critical configuration data. Secrets have to be stored outside the App/VNF/CNF images. For example, K8s secrets or external secrets managers (like Vault) can be used to store secret and sensitive information hence preventing the threat of packaging secrets in CNF container images. Secrets required by containerized applications can be injected into the CNF container from the External Secrets Manager as required.

Encrypting VNF volume / swap areas: Virtual volume disks associated with VNFs may contain sensitive data. Therefore, they need to be protected. The best practice to secure the VNF volume is by encrypting them and storing the cryptographic keys at safe locations. The TPM module can also be used to securely store these keys. In addition, the hypervisor should be configured to securely wipe out the virtual volume disks in the event a VNF is crashed or intentionally destroyed to prevent it from unauthorized access. VM swapping is a memory management technique used to move memory segments from the main memory to disk, which is used as a secondary memory in order to increase system performance in case the system runs out of memory. These transferred memory segments can contain sensitive information such as passwords and certificates. They can be stored on the disk and remain persistent even after system reboot. This enables an attack scenario whereby a VM swap is copied and investigated to retrieve any useful information. One way to avoid this kind of attack is to encrypt VM swap areas. Linux based tools such as dm-crypt can be used for this purpose.

This recommendation can help to mitigate: T-GEN-01, T-GEN-03, T-IMG-01, T-IMG-02, T-IMG-03, T-IMG-04

## REC-LOG Logging, Monitoring and Alerting

Recommendation: The continuous security of O-Cloud software depends on the ability to identify attacks and reconstruct them. The earlier operators identify suspicious behavior and possible attacks, the faster they can initiate countermeasures. In the best case, they are able to stop attacks before severe harm is done. In the worst case, they at least are able to reduce the attacks’ severity and collect important details on the attack itself. This knowledge is important to find and fix flaws and vulnerabilities to prevent similar attacks in the future. Therefore, a key activity is to perform logging, monitoring and alerting.

The importance increases because of the dynamic VM/Container deployment. VMs/Containers may be started when demand arises and then quickly be terminated once they are no longer required. Furthermore, the focused nature of VMs/Containers and the application of a microservice architecture means that there are more systems to monitor. As a result, monitoring and logging must handle this dynamic landscape and be able to collect data from many systems at once.

Best practices to fulfill this recommendation:

| Req ID | Description |
| --- | --- |
| REC-LOG-BP-1 | Any change to the O-Cloud components must be logged as a security event, and the logged event must include the identity of the entity making the change, the change, the date and the time of the change. |
| REC-LOG-BP-2 | Security logs should be time synchronized and regularly scanned for events of interest. |
| REC-LOG-BP-3 | Consider monitoring for the presence or loading of known vulnerable software that adversaries may drop and exploit to execute code in kernel mode. |
| REC-LOG-BP-4 | Monitor for the deployment of suspicious or unknown container images and pods in your environment, particularly containers running as root. Additionally, monitor for unexpected usage of syscalls such as mount (as well as resulting process activity) that may indicate an attempt to escape from a privileged container to host. In Kubernetes, monitor for cluster-level events associated with changing containers' volume configurations. |
| REC-LOG-BP-5 | Establish centralized logging for the activity of container and Kubernetes cluster components. This can be done by deploying logging agents on Kubernetes nodes and retrieving logs from sidecar proxies for application pods to detect malicious activity at the cluster level. |
| REC-LOG-BP-6 | Monitor logs for actions that could be taken to gather information about container infrastructure, including the use of discovery API calls by new or unexpected users. Monitor account activity logs to see actions performed and activity associated with the Kubernetes dashboard and other web applications. |
| REC-LOG-BP-7 | Consider monitoring process resource usage to determine anomalous activity associated with malicious hijacking of resources such as CPU, memory, and graphics processing resources. Monitor for suspicious use of network resources associated with cryptocurrency mining software. Monitor for common cryptomining software process names and files on local systems that may indicate compromise and resource usage. |
| REC-LOG-BP-8 | Container administration service activities and executed commands can be captured through logging of process execution with command-line arguments on the container and the underlying host. In Docker, the daemon log provides insight into events at the daemon and container service level. Kubernetes system component logs may also detect activities running in and out of containers in the cluster. |
| REC-LOG-BP-9 | Monitor interactions with images and containers by users to identify ones that are added or modified anomalously. In containerized environments, changes may be detectable by monitoring the Docker daemon logs or setting up and monitoring Kubernetes audit logs depending on registry configuration. |
| REC-LOG-BP-10 | Monitor for suspicious or unknown container images and pods in your environment. Deploy logging agents on Kubernetes nodes and retrieve logs from sidecar proxies for application pods to detect malicious activity at the cluster level. In Docker, the daemon log provides insight into remote API calls, including those that deploy containers. Logs for management services or applications used to deploy containers other than the native technologies themselves should also be monitored. |
| REC-LOG-BP-11 | Monitor for unexpected Docker image build requests to the Docker daemon on hosts in the environment. Additionally monitor for subsequent network communication with anomalous IPs that have never been seen before in the environment that indicate the download of malicious code. |
| REC-LOG-BP-12 | Alert the incident responders about a breach / attack on the O-Cloud software via email, SMS or other notification mechanisms. |
| REC-LOG-BP-13 | Alert using a notification to RASP (Runtime application self-protection) modules, or a SIEM about a breach / attack on the O-Cloud software. |

This recommendation can help to mitigate: T-GEN-01, T-GEN-02, T-GEN-03, T-GEN-06, T-VM-C-02, T-VM-C-03, T-VM-C-04, T-VM-C-05, T-VM-C-06, T-IMG-01, T-IMG-02, T-IMG-04, T-VL-02, T-TS-01

## REC-SB Secure Boot

Recommendation: All servers that are part of O-Cloud Infrastructure should support a root of trust and secure boot to trust that the running host OS, Hypervisor/Container Engine and VNFs/CNFs code were loaded.

Best practices to fulfill this recommendation:

| Req ID | Description |
| --- | --- |
| REC-SB-BP-1 | Using trusted platform module (TPM) as a hardware root of trust, the measurement of system sensitive components such as platform firmware, BIOS, bootloader, OS kernel, and other system components can be securely stored and verified. The platform measurement can only be taken when the system is reset or rebooted; there is no way to write the new platform measurement in TPM during the system run-time. The validation of the platform measurements can be performed by TPM’s launch control policy (LCP) or through the remote attestation server. |

For more details see ETSI GR NFV-SEC 007 [i.15].

This recommendation can help to mitigate: T-GEN-03, T-IMG-04, T-VL-01, T-VL-02

## REC-ISO Strong Isolation

Recommendation: Strong VNFs/CNFs sandboxing, isolation and segmentation should be enforced to make difficult for adversaries to advance their operation through exploitation of undiscovered or unpatched vulnerabilities. O-Cloud virtualization layer shall adopt measures to ensure strong VM/Container isolation among VM/Container workloads to limit the impact of rogue/misbehaving VM/Container on other co-hosted VMs/Containers.

Best practices to fulfill this recommendation:

| Req ID | Description |
| --- | --- |
| REC-ISO-BP-1 | In order to prevent privilege escalations, Operators shall ensure that CNFs shall: Avoid using binaries with SUID or SGID bit. Instead, specific capabilities required by the files/binaries should be provided using Linux Capabilities set Avoid root user and sudo privileges within container |
| REC-ISO-BP-2 | Restrict the damage attackers can do once they successfully escaped a container. Again, the Linux kernel provides a couple of security features that can be used to restrict user actions. Among them are Linux security modules providing mandatory access control and user namespaces themselves. |
| REC-ISO-BP-3 | Restrict the large system call interface using seccomp. The seccomp (’Secure Computing’) integrates a BPF-like filter mechanism for system calls into the Linux kernel. This can be used to reduce the number of system calls that a container can effectively use. Moreover, the parameters to system calls can be sanitized. Thus, seccomp reduces one attack surface by reducing the number of exploitable system calls. |
| REC-ISO-BP-4 | Linux kernel allows to restrict users’ capabilities to perform specific operations. In particular, root users have a vast set of permissions. Linux capabilities permit a fine-grained partition of the capabilities bundled into the root user. Thus, instead of being root, different capabilities can be restricted. For example, a user can be root without having the permissions to change network settings. Currently, the Linux kernel has 37 capabilities. Unfortunately, not all capabilities have a specific, well-defined scope. For example, CAP_SYS_PTRACE permits the use of ptrace(), while CAP_SYS_ADMIN comprises many permissions such as changing the host and domain name, using mount() and umount(), or performing various configurations of storage and memory devices. Restricting capabilities assigned to container processes limits the operations an adversary can use on the host system. |
| REC-ISO-BP-5 | Namespaces and cgroups are the two features that enable container-based virtualization in the Linux kernel. They provide isolation and separation of processes. However, their default configuration is often not as restrictive as possible to support many use cases. Thus, it is important to employ many namespaces and cgroups and tighten their configuration. For example, the user namespace separates the user IDs on the host system from the user IDs of a container. A user within the container can be root, while on the host system the same user is unprivileged. As another example, the devices control group can restrict what device nodes can be created and be accessed. Other control groups limit the maximum resources a container can use. Thus, they prevent degradation or denial of services in a shared environment. |
| REC-ISO-BP-6 | Linux security modules (LSM) are software components that use a well-defined kernel interface to control and decline certain operations. In particular, LSMs providing mandatory access control (MAC) define rules that further restrict what files a process can access. Two well-known LSM MACs are AppArmor and SELinux. These MACs define policy rules about what a process can and cannot access. The resulting policies are then enforced by the kernel. Thus, adversaries are on the one side further limited on the resources that are exploitable. On the other hand, they have to invest additional time and resources to circumvent and disable the LSMs. So far, these security mechanisms mostly protect the host from containers. If a container is compromised, an adversary still has to put in the additional effort to compromise the host. However, these protections may not circumvent exploits across containers on the same host. For example, containers on the Docker engine share a common user namespace and storage space for the container images. Thus, an adversary escaping one container may have access to the container images of another container. This can be used to manipulate images and introduce persistent threats or steal information. One safeguard against these cross-container exploitations are extended features of LSM MACs known as multi category security. Using MCS, every container gets a unique identity when it is initialized. Based on this unique identity, the kernel can perform more fine-grained access decisions because two process executing the same binary that would usually have the same policy are now distinguishable. As a result, access to container specific resources can be restrict for each container. |
| REC-ISO-BP-7 | It is important to secure remote access to the host and containers themselves. While not going into the details of full network security in a cloud environment, each container and host must be protected as part of the security-in-depth approach. On Linux systems, netfilter/iptables and ebtables can be used to create packet firewalls. They limit network access to exposed ports on the host and in the containers. Similar to virtual switches in hypervisors, containers can be connected by a Linux bridge device. Platforms such as Docker use a default bridge device for all containers if no separate network is specified during container initiation. As a result, containers may share a common network segment, which can be exploited. Therefore, ebtables is recommended as an additional firewall configured for the bridge device. |
| REC-ISO-BP-8 | Stronger isolation mechanisms to keep application code constrained within a VM/Container. Such solutions include the private cloud, physical separation. For containers, many security solutions are used for ensuring strong isolation of resources, such as LXC, LXD, Singularity, Docker (runc), Kata-containers (kata-runtime), and gVisor (runsc). |
| REC-ISO-BP-9 | Shared cache memory partitioning or isolation and assigning of a separate portion of cache memory to each VM can reduce or eliminate successful side channel attacks in a virtualized environment. |

This recommendation can help to mitigate: T-GEN-01, T-VM-C-01, T-VM-C-02, T-VM-C-05, T-VL-01, T-HW-01

## REC-AUD Security Audit

Recommendation: Periodic audit and scan should be conducted of:

The integrity of images and VM/Containers used in O-Cloud deployments to ensure they have not been modified to include malicious software.

Accounts and privileges for images repositories.

All accounts, access lists and the privileges they have been granted to access O-Cloud components and images repositories.

Best practices to fulfill this recommendation:

| Req ID | Description |
| --- | --- |
| REC-AUD-BP-1 | Scan code repositories for exposed credentials or other sensitive information. Preemptively search for files containing passwords or other credentials and take actions to reduce the exposure risk when found. |
| REC-AUD-BP-2 | Suspicious accounts/credentials should be investigated and removed. |
| REC-AUD-BP-3 | Routinely check account role permissions to ensure only expected users and roles have permission to modify cloud firewalls, to modify cloud compute infrastructure components, create snapshots and backups, and to create/delete new instances. |

This recommendation can help to mitigate: T-GEN-01, T-GEN-02, T-VM-C-05, T-IMG-01, T-IMG-03, T-IMG-04, T-ADMIN-01, T-ADMIN-02

## REC-SS Secure Storage

Recommendation: The O-Cloud infrastructure should support encrypted storage, for example, block, object, file storage, credentials, and secrets with access to encryption keys restricted based on a need to know.

Best practices to fulfill this recommendation:

| Req ID | Description |
| --- | --- |
| REC-SS-BP-1 | Controlled Access Based on the Need to Know should be implemented. |
| REC-SS-BP-2 | When possible, store keys on separate cryptographic hardware (e.g. HSM, TPM) instead of on the local system. |
| REC-SS-BP-3 | Use best practices for authentication protocols, such as OAuth 2.0, and ensure traffic that may contain credentials is protected by TLS. |
| REC-SS-BP-4 | Set up monitoring to track access to cache data and identify any unauthorized access attempts. |
| REC-SS-BP-5 | Establish policies for cache data lifecycle, including how long data should be retained in cache and when it should be purged. |

This recommendation can help to mitigate: T-GEN-06, T-VM-C-01, T-VM-C-02, T-VM-C-03, T-VM-C-06, T-IMG-03, T-IMG-03, T-VL-01, T-OCAPI-01, T-HW-01

## REC-PHY Physical Security Protection

Recommendation: Physical security protection measures should be considered to deny unauthorized access to O-Cloud facilities, equipment and resources.

Best practices to fulfill this recommendation:

| Req ID | Description |
| --- | --- |
| REC-PHY-BP-1 | Reduce the hardware platform (computing platform based for example on the x86 hardware architecture (32bit or 64bit), similar servers) attack surface by removing unneeded interfaces. Example: Wireless interfaces (e.g., WiFi, 4G), if present, should remain optional for the platform REC-PHY-BP-1 [i.41]. |
| REC-PHY-BP-2 | Enforce protection of the main memory against untrusted peripherals. Example: The hardware platform exposes an input/output memory management unit, such as VT-x (Intel) or AMD-V (AMD). This feature needs to be enabled by default and can only be disabled by the owner of the hardware platform (not the user) [i.41]. |
| REC-PHY-BP-3 | Ensure the security hardware component quality. Example: In case the platform embeds a TPM, the latter is certified (e.g. from a Common Criteria perspective according to the Protection Profile TCG Protection Profile PC Client Specific TPM Family 2.0) [i.41]. Only the owner of the hardware platform (not the user) can enable and disable the TPM. |
| REC-PHY-BP-4 | Ensure the hardening of the platform against persistent compromises. Example: hardware platform firmwares are expected to ensure their integrity by means of state-of-the-art security mechanisms. This notably includes protecting integrity of the code and data stored on the Flash Memory. The modification of firmware code should only be the result of a legitimate, signed update using robust cryptographic protocols. The installation of a signed update older than the version currently installed on the hardware platform shall be considered illegitimate by default. However, for the latter case, the firmware configuration interface shall allow the platform owner to disable this protection. |
| REC-PHY-BP-5 | Ensure the presence of minimal security features within the firmware (Low-level software components shipped with the hardware platform, including UEFI and legacy BIOSes or hardware components embedded software). Example: The firmware configuration interface provides the following features [i.41]: Protecting the access to the firmware configuration interface thanks to a dedicated password Locking the boot sequence of the platform thanks to a dedicated password Enabling and disabling input/output interfaces (e.g. USB) Configuring the boot order (the ordering of the list of devices checked by the BIOS to boot an operating system) Replacing default Secure Boot keys with custom keys generated by the owner |
| REC-PHY-BP-6 | Allow for inspecting and auditing firmware code. Example: Mechanisms which prevent firmware code inspection shall be absent or disabled by default. |
| REC-PHY-BP-7 | Data centre physical security protections based on its location and such risk assessments, to determinate the structures, and data centre support systems (sensors, video camera, alarms to a Security Operation Centre…) |
| REC-PHY-BP-8 | Backup system in other area if needed. |
| REC-PHY-BP-9 | Enforcing Multi-Factor Authentication for privileged users could be a mitigation. |
| REC-PHY-BP-10 | Server cabinets fitted with an electronic lock. |
| REC-PHY-BP-11 | Physical Access Control based system with video and entry logs system. |
| REC-PHY-BP-12 | Sensors on the room or the cabinet to generate alarms to the Network / Security Operation Centre. |
| REC-PHY-BP-13 | Limited number of physical interfaces on the on-board NIC of the server and remotely control NIC. |
| REC-PHY-BP-14 | Secure All Endpoints (terminal, physical connectivity…). |
| REC-PHY-BP-15 | Zero trust architecture with security layers including physical access and redundancies, with regular security audit if needed. |

This recommendation can help to mitigate: T-VM-C-03, T-VM-C-05, T-VL-02, T-OCAPI-01, T-HW-01, T-HW-02

## REC-RA Remote Attestation

Recommendation: A remote attestation (RA) approach should be used to determine the trustworthiness of O-Cloud components. It is a defensive measure that addresses the malicious software execution. In O-Cloud it is obvious the need for applying procedures to verify the integrity of the whole O-Cloud service deployment by the appropriate attestation of the O-Cloud architectural elements, including software and firmware images and associated supporting security sub-systems that will run to instantiate individual VNFs/CNFs and their composition into a O-Cloud service.

The remote attestation requires identifying the root(s) of trust, establishing a chain of trust for the O-Cloud infrastructure, the VL, VNFs/CNFs, and the NFO/FOCOM sub-systems, and verification of the trust chain, so the NFO/FOCOM components can verifiably establish a sufficient level of assurance in the different software elements constituting the VNFs/CNFs and the service(s) that use them.

The remote attestation (RA) capabilities should be used to realize trust establishment in the following use case scenarios:

Measurement of VM/Container during launch.

Protected VM/Container launch on a trusted O-Cloud platform

Measurement of VM/Container during launch and while in use

Remote attestation of secret storage

Secure VM/Container migration between two trusted O-Cloud platform

Best practices to fulfill this recommendation:

| Req ID | Description |
| --- | --- |
| REC-RA-BP-1 | ETSI GR NFV-SEC 018 [i.13], [i.14], ETSI GR NFV-SEC 007 [i.15] could be used as a security guidance of the remote attestation (RA) approach. |
| REC-RA-BP-2 | All servers part of O-Cloud infrastructure should support measured boot and an attestation server that monitors the measurements of the servers. |

Example: Operators might use RA to assess if the overall O-Cloud infrastructure is trustworthy, datacenters might use RA to assess trustworthiness of subsystems they use, and management entities might use RA to assess the trustworthiness of individual infrastructural components. Hence, there are numerous use-cases and scenarios that might be considered where attestation is a fundamental step of creating an overall trustworthy system.

A trustworthy element is the entity which has a component that provides a unique identifier, certification (e.g. through cryptographic signing) and which is able to store measurements and data about the state of that element (including related sub-elements or dependent elements if necessary) in a tamperproof and verifiable form. For example, the TPM2.0 quoting mechanism using the TPMS_ATTEST data structure is an example of this.

This recommendation can help to mitigate: T-GEN-03, T-VM-C-04, T-IMG-04, T-VL-02

## REC-SDD Secure data deletion

Recommendation: The O-Cloud platform should delete cryptographic keys and sensitive data using a secure deletion method from both active and backup storage systems.

Best practices to fulfill this recommendation:

| BP ID | Description |
| --- | --- |
| REC-SDD-BP-1 | Review the CSP’s policies and SLAs on data deletion to ensure it has a procedure that effectively deletes data. |
| REC-SDD-BP-2 | Secure overwriting is way to overwrite on existing data to be deleted by new data, replaced with zero or random. |
| REC-SDD-BP-3 | Cryptography method to encrypt the data before storing to the cloud storage. In order to delete the data, the encryption key is being destroyed. This makes the data unrecoverable. |
| REC-SDD-BP-4 | Each data center adheres to a strict disposal policy and uses the techniques described to achieve compliance with NIST SP 800-88 Revision 1 “Guidelines for Media Sanitization” [i.48] and DoD 5220.22-M “National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual.” [i.49]. |
| REC-SDD-BP-5 | Physically destroy media that cannot be sanitized by either crush and deform the drive or shred the drive into small pieces. |
| REC-SDD-BP-6 | Limit access to data backups (through use of roles) to know who has access to the data. |
| REC-SDD-BP-7 | Enable application deployment using a security policy where volumes containing sensitive data mounted by the O-Cloud infrastructure to the application, are unmounted after application initialization guard timer, or based on application state monitoring. |
| REC-SDD-BP-8 | Enable applications to delete application sensitive data from their memory / filesystems based on a trigger from O-Cloud infrastructure. |
| REC-SDD-BP-9 | Enable RASP modules to notify applications to delete application sensitive data from their memory / filesystems based on a trigger from O-Cloud infrastructure. |

This recommendation can help to mitigate: T-GEN-05, T-GEN-06, T-VM-C-03

## REC-IDM O-Cloud ID secure management

Recommendation: To counter threats associated with ID reuse, mismanagement, and redundancy, the O-Cloud should employ robust strategies for ID generation, validation, and lifecycle management. Properly managed IDs reduce risks of data inconsistencies, unauthorized access, and operational inefficiencies.

Best practices to fulfil this recommendation:

| BP ID | Description |
| --- | --- |
| REC-IDM-BP-01 | Adopt the UUID generation method in line with RFC 4122 standards within the O-Cloud system. Ensure each newly created object, whether Containers, Pods, Nodes, or Services, is assigned a unique UUID upon its instantiation. Utilize reputable UUID generation libraries or modules to ensure adherence to the standard. |
| REC-IDM-BP-02 | Implement validation mechanisms ensuring each ID's uniqueness during assignment. |
| REC-IDM-BP-03 | Use database-level constraints to ensure ID uniqueness across the O-Cloud. |
| REC-IDM-BP-04 | Monitor the lifecycle of each ID, providing a clear history of its assignment and usage. |
| REC-IDM-BP-05 | Implement automated processes to detect and remove defunct node objects. |
| REC-IDM-BP-06 | Audit node resources before ID assignment and raise alerts on mismatches. |
| REC-IDM-BP-07 | Use configuration management tools to maintain node consistency. |
| REC-IDM-BP-08 | Employ dynamic IP management systems to ensure consistent IP assignments. |
| REC-IDM-BP-09 | Ensure monitoring tools can differentiate between data from old and new IDs. |
| REC-IDM-BP-10 | Notify users/systems when an ID is reused, alerting them of potential ambiguities. |
| REC-IDM-BP-11 | Centralize logging systems with distinct identifiers for each ID. |
| REC-IDM-BP-12 | Regularly update and audit RBAC policies to ensure they reflect current ID assignments. |
| REC-IDM-BP-13 | Before reusing any ID, ensure that the lifecycle of the previous object associated with that ID has been completely terminated. |
| REC-IDM-BP-14 | For any ID that's about to be reused, conduct thorough data cleaning processes to remove all residual data and configurations associated with its predecessor. |

This recommendation can help to mitigate: T-O-CLOUD-ID-01, T-O-CLOUD-ID-02, T-O-CLOUD-ID-03

## REC-IDM Identity management for O-Cloud elements

O-RAN Applications hosted on O-Cloud, Services provided by O-Cloud and O-Cloud Nodes use an identity, such as an identifier in an X.509 certificate, for authentication and authorization. To establish consistent and standardized identities throughout O-Cloud, it is essential to implement a uniform identity provider.

The incorporation of an Identity Provider framework ensures uniform identity management that provides strong attested identities, through a combination of diverse attestation mechanisms, for the various elements in O-cloud environment and addresses the threats of Identity spoofing, unauthorized access, inadequate verification of the trustworthiness of entities.

Recommendation: SPIRE and SPIFFE are CNCF graduated projects that effectively act as an identity provider for workloads and has been specified in NIST SP 800-207A [i.58] which mentions that “service identity should not be subjected to spoofing and should be continuously verifiable. An example of workload identity is a SPIFFE ID which is encoded as a Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) and carried in a cryptographically verifiable document called a SPIFFE Verifiable Identity Document (SVID)”.

SPIFFE provides a structured ID format for applications in RFC 3986 URI format. The SPIFFE ID adheres to NIST SP 800-207A (Zero Trust Architecture Model for Access Control in Cloud-Native Applications) as mentioned above.

SPIFFE Runtime Environment (SPIRE), a production-ready implementation of SPIFFE APIs use Node and workload attestation to securely issue SVID [X.509 certificate with SPIFFE ID][i.55] to Applications which can be used for service-service communication.

In O-Cloud, services and workloads can be dynamically scaled up, down and scheduled, SPIRE provides a secure way to verify the identity of these dynamically changing entities, ensuring that services can trust one another in such environments.

SPIFFE and SPIRE, as a part of O-Cloud Infrastructure enable services and applications to obtain identity (SPIFFE ID [i.57]) and SVID [X.509 certificate with SPIFFE ID] using attestation policies.

Fig 8.18-1: SPIRE Architecture in O-Cloud

SPIRE Architecture: A SPIRE deployment is composed of one or more SPIRE Servers and one or more SPIRE Agents.

SPIRE Server: A SPIRE Server is responsible for managing and issuing all identities in its configured SPIFFE trust domain. It stores registration entries [i.54] (which specify the selectors that determine the conditions under which a particular SPIFFE ID should be issued) and signing keys, uses node attestation [i.54] to authenticate agents' identities automatically, and creates SVIDs for workloads when requested by an authenticated agent.

SPIRE Agents: A SPIRE Agent runs on every O-Cloud node on which an identified workload runs. The agent performs the following tasks:

- Requests SVIDs from SPIRE server and caches them until a workload requests its SVID.
- Exposes the SPIFFE Workload API to workloads on node and attests the identity of workloads that call it.
- Provides SVIDs to the identified workloads.
Best practices to fulfil this recommendation:

| BP ID | Description |
| --- | --- |
| REC-IDM-SPR-01 | Adopt a uniform standardized identity that follow the URI specification as defined by RFC 3986 for all elements within the O-Cloud. spiffe://domain/clusterName/namespace/WL-identity |
| REC-IDM-SPR-02 | The SPIFFE Verifiable Identity Document (SVID) is cryptographically verifiable document can be issued either by SPIRE server locally or through an external Certificate Authority. |
| REC-IDM-SPR-03 | Agent and server architecture model as defined in SPIFFE and SPIRE Concepts [i.54] to be implemented in O-Cloud platform. |
| REC-IDM-SPR-04 | O-Cloud exposes the SPIRE APIs through which identity may be retrieved and/or issued to Applications or services. |
| REC-IDM-SPR-05 | Registration entries maps an identity -- in the form of a SPIFFE ID -- to a set of properties known as selectors that the workload must possess to be issued a particular identity. For SPIRE to identify an O-Cloud element, it is essential to register the O-Cloud elements with the SPIRE Server, via registration entries.  SMO can use the O2ims interface to push the registration entries for O-Cloud Nodes, Network Functions to the SPIRE server present as part of the O-Cloud platform. |
| REC-IDM-SPR-06 | Attestation Policies are enforced for asserting the identity of O-Cloud elements by gathering attributes and comparing them to a set of selectors defined in the Registration entries.  Node Attestation [i.56] ensures agent authenticate and verify itself when it first connects to a server. Workload Attestation verifies the identity of the elements by querying information about the process from the node and comparing it with the selectors provided in the Registration entries. |
| REC-IDM-SPR-07 | SPIRE server as part of O-Cloud platform does issuance of SVID and required trust bundle to O-Cloud elements after successful assertion. |

This recommendation can help to mitigate: T-O-CLOUD-ID-01, T-O-CLOUD-ID-03

## REC-ADMC Admission Control

Admission Control, within the framework of O-Cloud, operates as a customizable and adaptable security layer. It intercepts API requests after they are authenticated and authorized but before they are executed. It evaluates and decides on the admission of requests to perform specific actions, such as deploying a software image, creating or updating Pods, managing resources, and setting up network policies.

Some of the configurable security policies include:

- Vulnerability scanning: The Admission Control incorporates a robust vulnerability scanning process. This process is integral to identifying and assessing any known security vulnerabilities within a software image. It ensures that only those images that meet the set vulnerability thresholds, indicating a minimized risk of security threats, are approved for deployment. The activation of this scanning feature can be adjusted according to the specific needs and security requirements of different scenarios.
- Image signature verification: In addition to vulnerability scanning, the Admission Control also includes the critical step of verifying the digital signature of software images. This verification process is essential for confirming the authenticity and integrity of the image. It guarantees that the image originates from a trusted source and remains unaltered. The enforcement of this verification can be tailored based on the operational context and the level of security needed.
- Resource quotas: The Admission Control enforces and sets constraints on the total amount of resources (CPU, memory, storage) that can be consumed by pods within a namespace. This prevents any single application or user from monopolising cluster resources, which can be a security concern in multi-tenant environments.
- Limit range: The Admission Control enforces and sets default and limit constraints on the resources that can be requested and consumed by individual containers or VMs within a particular namespace. This prevents any single container or VM from consuming excessive resources in a particular namespace.
- Pod security policies: The Admission Control defines a set of conditions that a pod must meet before it is accepted into the system. These policies can enforce the use of non-privileged containers, restrict volume types, and require the use of read-only root file systems, all of which enhance security.
- Immutable containers: The Admission Control enforces policies that prevent changes to running containers, ensuring that the containers remain in their original, secure state as defined at deployment.
- API rate limiting: To prevent abuse and potential denial-of-service attacks, The Admission Control can enforce rate limiting on API requests. This ensures that the API server remains stable and responsive, even under high load or during an attack.
In Kubernetes, the Admission Control is an integral component that significantly enhance the cluster's security and operational integrity. It can be implemented as a plugin that can either modify or reject requests to the Kubernetes API, ensuring compliance with defined security and operational policies. Examples of a such Admission Control include:

- Kubernetes Pod Security Admission: Admission Controller provided by Kubernetes itself. It focuses on enforcing security-related best practices for Pods.
- 3rd party admission plugins: such as OPA. Open Policy Agent (OPA) is a popular third-party admission controller. It extends the functionality of Kubernetes admission control by allowing more complex and customized policy enforcement. OPA uses a declarative language called Rego to define policies that specify the desired state and behaviour of the cluster resources. For example, OPA can be used to require that all container images come from a trusted registry.
In the O-Cloud context, the decision hinges on achieving a delicate balance: on one hand, there's the need for simplicity and seamless integration, which is a strong point of Kubernetes native controllers. On the other hand, there's a demand for advanced, customizable policy management, where OPA excels. Throughout this balancing act, it is crucial to maintain high standards of security and optimal performance, ensuring these implementations are effectively aligned with the broader O-RAN system. Opting for a combination approach might provide the most flexibility, catering to these diverse requirements. This strategy enables the adaptation to varying operational scenarios within O-RAN, each with its own unique set of needs, whether they pertain to security, efficiency, scalability, or compliance.

This recommendation can help to mitigate: T-VM-C-01, T-IMG-01, T-VL-03

# Risk Assessment

The risk assessment of the identified threats against O-Cloud is provided in the O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment [i.50].

Operators, O-Cloud vendors and Cloud providers should ensure that O-Cloud components and interfaces are secure under very strict set of security best practices. Such security guidance include:

A.1 	CISA/NSA Kubernetes security hardening best practices [i.3]

A.2 	CIS Docker security best practices [i.18]

A.3 	ONAP VNFs security best practices [i.24]

This section summarizes recommendations and best practices from the CISA/NSA Kubernetes Hardening Guidance. The report details recommendations to harden Kubernetes systems. Primary actions include the scanning of containers and Pods for vulnerabilities or misconfigurations, running containers and Pods with the least privileges possible, and using network separation, firewalls, strong authentication, and log auditing. To ensure the security of applications, system administrators should keep up to date with patches, updates, and upgrades to minimize risk. NSA and CISA also recommend periodic reviews of Kubernetes settings and vulnerability scans to ensure appropriate risks are accounted for and security patches are applied.

Download the full Kubernetes Hardening Guidance: https://media.defense.gov/2022/Aug/29/2003066362/-1/-1/0/CTR_KUBERNETES_HARDENING_GUIDANCE_1.2_20220829.PDF

Kubernetes Pod security

Pods are the smallest deployable Kubernetes unit and consist of one or more containers. Pods are often a cyber actor’s initial execution environment upon exploiting a container. For this reason, Pods should be hardened to make exploitation more difficult and to limit the impact of a successful compromise.

“Non-root” containers: Preventing root execution by using non-root containers limits the impact of a container compromise. container engines allow containers to run applications as a non-root user with non-root group membership. Typically, this non-default setting is configured when the container image is built. Having non-root execution integrated at build time provides better assurance that applications will function correctly without root privileges. (See Appendix A in [i.3]).

Immutable container file systems: By default, containers are permitted mostly unrestricted execution within their own context. A cyber actor who has gained execution in a container can create files, download scripts, and modify the application within the container. Kubernetes can lock down a container’s file system, thereby preventing many post-exploitation activities. However, these limitations also affect legitimate container applications and can potentially result in crashes or anomalous behavior. To prevent damaging legitimate applications, Kubernetes administrators can mount secondary read/write file systems for specific directories where applications require write access. (See Appendix B in [i.3]).

Building secure container images: Container images are usually created by either building a container from scratch or by building on top of an existing image pulled from a repository. In addition to using trusted repositories to build containers, image scanning is key to ensuring deployed containers are secure. Throughout the container build workflow, images should be scanned to identify outdated libraries, known vulnerabilities, or misconfigurations, such as insecure ports or permissions. One approach to implementing image scanning is by using an admission controller [i.3]. This admission controller could block deployments if the image doesn’t comply with the organization’s security policies defined in the webhook configuration.

Hardening container engines: Some platforms and container engines provide additional options to harden the containerized environments. A powerful example is the use of hypervisors to provide container isolation. Hypervisors rely on hardware to enforce the virtualization boundary rather than the operating system. Hypervisor isolation is more secure than traditional container isolation. Container engines running on the Windows operating system can be configured to use the built-in Windows hypervisor, Hyper-V, to enhance security. Additionally, some security focused container engines natively deploy each container within a lightweight hypervisor for defense-in-depth. Hypervisor-backed containers mitigate container breakouts.

Network separation and hardening

Cluster networking is a central concept of Kubernetes. Communication between containers, Pods, services, and external services must be taken into consideration. Resource separation and encryption can be an effective way to limit a cyber actor’s movement and escalation within a cluster.

Namespaces: Kubernetes namespaces are one way to partition cluster resources among multiple individuals, teams, or applications within the same cluster (See Appendix E [i.3] for more details).

Network policies: Network policies control traffic flow between Pods, namespaces, and external IP addresses. By default, no network policies are applied to Pods or namespaces, resulting in unrestricted ingress and egress traffic within the Pod network. Pods become isolated through a network policy that applies to the Pod or the Pod’s namespace. Once a Pod is selected in a network policy, it rejects any connections that are not specifically allowed by any applicable policy object. (See Appendix F in [i.3] for more details).

Resource policies: In addition to network policies, LimitRange and ResourceQuota are two policies that can limit resource usage for namespaces or nodes. A LimitRange policy constrains individual resources per Pod or container within a particular namespace, e.g., by enforcing maximum compute and storage resources. ResourceQuotas are restrictions placed on the aggregate resource usage for an entire namespace, such as limits placed on total CPU and memory usage. If a user tries to create a Pod that violates a LimitRange or ResourceQuota policy, the Pod creation fails. (See Appendixes G and H in [i.3] for more details).

Control plane hardening: The control plane is the core of Kubernetes and gives users the ability to view containers, schedule new Pods, read Secrets, and execute commands in the cluster. Because of these sensitive capabilities, the control plane should be highly protected. In addition to secure configurations such as TLS encryption, RBAC, and a strong authentication method, network separation can help prevent unauthorized users from accessing the control plane. The Kubernetes API server should be protected (e.g. by firewall, TLS encryption) and not be exposed to the Internet or an untrusted network.

Worker node segmentation: A worker node can be a virtual or physical machine, depending on the cluster’s implementation. Because nodes run the microservices and host the web applications for the cluster, they are often the target of exploits. If a node becomes compromised, an administrator should proactively limit the attack surface by separating the worker nodes from other network segments that do not need to communicate with the worker nodes or Kubernetes services. A firewall can be used to separate internal network segments from the external facing worker nodes or the entire Kubernetes service depending on the network. Examples of services that may need to be separated from the possible attack surface of the worker nodes are confidential databases or internal services that would not need to be internet accessible.

Encryption: Administrators should configure all traffic in the Kubernetes cluster—including between components, nodes, and the control plane—to use TLS 1.2 or 1.3 encryption. Encryption can be set up during installation or afterward using TLS bootstrapping, detailed in the Kubernetes documentation, to create and distribute certificates to nodes. For all methods, certificates must be distributed amongst nodes to communicate securely.

Secrets: Kubernetes Secrets maintain sensitive information, such as passwords, OAuth tokens, SSH and TLS keys. Secrets can be encrypted by configuring data-at-rest encryption on the API server or by using an external Key Management Service (KMS), which may be available through a cloud provider. (See Appendixes I and J in [i.3] for more details).

Protecting sensitive cloud infrastructure: Kubernetes is often deployed on virtual machines in a cloud environment. As such, administrators should carefully consider the attack surface of the virtual machines on which the Kubernetes worker nodes are running. In many cases, Pods running on these virtual machines have access to sensitive cloud metadata services on a non-routable address. These metadata services provide cyber actors with information about the cloud infrastructure and possibly even short-lived credentials for cloud resources. Cyber actors abuse these metadata services for privilege escalation. Kubernetes administrators should prevent Pods from accessing cloud metadata services by using network policies or through the cloud configuration policy. Because these services vary based on the cloud provider, administrators should follow vendor guidance to harden these access vectors.

Authentication and authorization

Authentication and authorization are the primary mechanisms to restrict access to cluster resources. Cyber actors can scan for well-known Kubernetes ports and access the cluster’s database or make API calls without being authenticated if the cluster is misconfigured. User authentication is not a built-in feature of Kubernetes. However, several methods exist for administrators to add authentication to a cluster.

Authentication: Kubernetes clusters have two types of users: service accounts and normal user accounts. Service accounts handle API requests on behalf of Pods. Authentication is typically managed automatically by Kubernetes through the ServiceAccount Admission Controller using bearer tokens. The bearer tokens are mounted into Pods at well-known locations and can be used from outside the cluster if the tokens are left unsecured. Because of this, access to Pod Secrets should be restricted to those with a need to view them using Kubernetes RBAC. For normal users and admin accounts, there is no automatic authentication method for users. Administrators must add an authentication method to the cluster to implement authentication and authorization mechanisms. The Kubernetes documentation lists several ways to implement user authentication including client certificates, bearer tokens, authentication plugins, and other authentication protocols. At least one user authentication method should be implemented. Administrators should not use weak methods such as static password files. Weak authentication methods could allow cyber actors to authenticate as legitimate users.

Role-based access control: RBAC is one method to control access to cluster resources based on the roles of individuals within an organization. RBAC is enabled by default in Kubernetes version 1.6 and newer. Privileges assigned to users, groups, and service accounts should follow the principle of least privilege, giving only required permissions to resources. Users or user groups can be limited to particular namespaces where required resources reside. By default, a service account is created for each namespace for Pods to access the Kubernetes API. RBAC policies can be used to specify allowed actions from the service accounts in each namespace. Access to the Kubernetes API is limited by creating an RBAC Role or ClusterRole with the appropriate API request verb and desired resource on which the action can be applied. Tools exist that can help audit RBAC policies by printing users, groups, and service accounts with their associated assigned Roles and ClusterRoles. (See Appendixes K and L in [i.3] for more details).

Log auditing

Logs capture activity in the cluster. Auditing logs is necessary, not only for ensuring that services are operating and configured as intended, but also for ensuring the security of the system. Systematic audit requirements mandate consistent and thorough checks of security settings to help identify compromises. Kubernetes is capable of capturing audit logs for cluster actions and monitoring basic CPU and memory usage information; however, it does not natively provide in-depth monitoring or alerting services.

Logging: System administrators running applications within Kubernetes should establish an effective logging, monitoring, and alerting system for their environment. Logging Kubernetes events alone is not enough to provide a full picture of the actions occurring on the system. Logging should also be performed at the host level, application level, and on the cloud if applicable. These logs can then be correlated with any external authentication and system logs as applicable to provide a full view of the actions taken throughout the environment for use by security auditors and incident responders. Within the Kubernetes environment, administrators should monitor/log the following:

API request history

Performance metrics

Deployments

Resource consumption

Operating system calls

Protocols, permission changes

Network traffic

Pod scaling

When a Pod is created or updated, administrators should capture detailed logs of the network communications, response times, requests, resource consumption, and any other relevant metrics to establish a baseline.

RBAC policy configurations should be audited periodically and whenever changes occur to the organization’s system administrators.

Audits of internal and external traffic logs should be conducted to ensure all intended security constraints on connections have been configured properly and are working as intended.

Logs can be streamed to an external logging service to ensure availability to security professionals outside of the cluster, identify abnormalities as close to real time as possible, and protect logs from being deleted if a compromise occurs. If using this method, logs should be encrypted during transit with TLS 1.2 or 1.3 to ensure cyber actors cannot access the logs in transit and gain valuable information about the environment. (See Appendixes M and N in [i.3] for more details).

SIEM platforms: Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) software collects logs from across an organization’s network. SIEM software brings together firewall logs, application logs, and more; parsing them out to provide a centralized platform from which analysts can monitor system security. SIEM tools have variations in their capabilities. Generally, these platforms provide log collection, threat detection, and alerting capabilities. Some include machine learning capabilities, which can better predict system behavior and help to reduce false alerts. Organizations using these platforms in their environment can integrate them with Kubernetes to better monitor and secure clusters. Open-source platforms for managing logs from a Kubernetes environment exist as an alternative to SIEM platforms.

Alerting: Kubernetes does not natively support alerting; however, several monitoring tools with alerting capabilities are compatible with Kubernetes. If Kubernetes administrators choose to configure an alerting tool to work within a Kubernetes environment, there are several metrics for which administrators should monitor and configure alerts. Examples of cases that could trigger alerts include but are not limited to:

Low disk space on any of the machines in the environment,

Available storage space on a logging volume running low,

External logging service going offline,

A Pod or application running with root permissions,

An anonymous account being used or gaining privileges,

Unusual system calls or failed API calls,

user/admin behavior that is abnormal (i.e. at unusual times or from an unusual location), and

Significant deviations from the standard operation metrics baseline.

Service meshes: Service meshes are platforms that streamline microservice communications within an application by allowing for the logic of these communications to be coded into the service mesh rather than within each microservice. Coding this communication logic into individual microservices is difficult to scale, difficult to debug as failures occur, and difficult to secure. Using a service mesh can simplify this for developers. The mesh can:

Redirect traffic when a service is down,

Gather performance metrics for optimizing communications,

Allow management of service-to-service communication encryption,

Collect logs for service-to-service communication,

Collect logs from each service, and

Help developers diagnose problems and failures of microservices or communication mechanisms.

Fault tolerance: Fault tolerance policies should be put in place to ensure logging service availability. One policy that can be put in place is to allow new logs to overwrite the oldest log files if absolutely necessary in the event of storage capacity being exceeded. If logs are being sent to an external service, a mechanism should be in place for logs to be stored locally if a communication loss or external service failure occurs. Once communication to the external service is restored, a policy should be in place for the locally stored logs to be pushed up to the external server.

Tools: Kubernetes does not include extensive auditing capabilities. However, the system is built to be extensible, allowing users the freedom to develop their own custom solution or to choose an existing add-on that suits their needs. One of the most common solutions is to add additional audit backend services, which can use the information logged by Kubernetes and perform additional functions for users, such as extended search parameters, data mapping features, and alerting functionality. Organizations that already use SIEM platforms can integrate Kubernetes with these existing capabilities. Open-source monitoring tools—such as the Cloud Native Computing Foundation’s Prometheus, Grafana Labs’ Grafana, and Elasticsearch’s Elastic Stack (ELK) —are available to conduct event monitoring, run threat analytics, manage alerting, and collect resource isolation parameters, historical usage, and network statistics on running containers. Scanning tools can be useful when auditing the access control and permission configurations by assisting in identifying risky permission configurations in RBAC. NSA and CISA encourage organizations utilizing Intrusion Detection Systems (IDSs) on their existing environment to consider integrating that service into their Kubernetes environment as well. This integration would allow an organization to monitor for—and potentially kill containers showing signs of—unusual behavior so the containers can be restarted from the initial clean image. Many cloud service providers also provide container monitoring services for those wanting more managed and scalable solutions.

Upgrading and application security practices

Security of applications running on Kubernetes orchestrated containers is an ongoing process, and it is vital to keep up with patches, updates, and upgrades. The specific software components vary depending on the individual configuration, but each piece of the overall system should be kept as secure as possible. This includes updating: Kubernetes, hypervisors, virtualization software, plugins, operating systems on which the environment is running, applications running on the servers, and any other software hosted in the Kubernetes environment.

The Center for Internet Security (CIS) publishes benchmarks for securing software. Administrators should adhere to the CIS benchmarks for Kubernetes and any other relevant system components. Administrators should check periodically to ensure their system's security is compliant with the current security experts’ consensus on best practices. Periodic vulnerability scans and penetration tests should be performed on the various system components to proactively look for insecure configurations and zero-day vulnerabilities. Any discoveries should be promptly remediated before potential cyber actors can discover and exploit them.

As updates are deployed, administrators should also keep up with removing any old components that are no longer needed from the environment. Using a managed Kubernetes service can help to automate upgrades and patches for Kubernetes, operating systems, and networking protocols. However, administrators must still patch and upgrade their containerized applications.

CIS Benchmarks are universal security best practices developed by cybersecurity professionals and experts. Each CIS Benchmark provides guidelines for creating a secure system configuration. The following table summarizes recommendations from the CIS Docker Benchmark, specifying how to set up a safe docker configuration.

Download the full CIS Docker Benchmark: https://www.cisecurity.org/benchmark/docker/

Host Configuration

Create a separate partition for containers

Harden the container host

Update your Docker software on a regular basis

Manage Docker daemon access authorization wisely

Configure your Docker files directories, and

Audit all Docker daemon activity.

Docker Daemon Configuration

Restrict network traffic between default bridge containers and access to new privileges from containers.

Enable user namespace support to provide additional, Docker client commands authorization, live restore, and default cgroup usage

Disable legacy registry operations and Userland Proxy

Avoid networking misconfiguration by allowing Docker to make changes to iptables, and avoid experimental features during production.

Configure TLS authentication for Docker daemon and centralized and remote logging.

Set the logging level to 'info', and set an appropriate default ulimit

Don’t use insecure registries and aufs storage drivers

Apply base device size for containers and a daemon-wide custom SECCOMP profile to limit calls.

Container Images and Build File

Create a user for the container

Ensure containers use only trusted images

Ensure unnecessary packages are not installed in the container

Include security patches during scans and rebuilding processes

Enable content trust for Docker

Add HEALTHCHECK instructions to the container image

Remove setuid and setgid permissions from the images

Use COPY instead of ADD in Dockerfile

Install only verified packages

Don’t use update instructions in a single line or alone in the Dockerfile

Don’t store secrets in Dockerfiles

Container Runtime

Restrict containers from acquiring additional privileges and restrict Linux Kernel Capabilities.

Enable AppArmor Profile.

Avoid use of privileged containers during runtime, running ssh within containers, mapping privileged ports within containers.

Ensure sensitive host system directories aren’t mounted on containers, the container's root filesystem is mounted as read-only, the Docker socket is not mounted inside any containers.

Set appropriate CPU priority for the container, set 'on-failure' container restart policy to '5', and open only necessary ports on the container.

Apply per need SELinux security options, and overwrite the default ulimit at runtime.

Don’t share the host's network namespace and the host's process namespace, the host's IPC namespace, mount propagation mode, the host's UTS namespace, the host's user namespaces.

Limit memory usage for container and bind incoming container traffic to a specific host interface.

Don’t expose host devices directly to containers, don’t disable the default SECCOMP profile, don’t use docker exec commands with privileged and user option, and don’t use Docker's default bridge docker0.

Confirm cgroup usage and use PIDs cgroup limit, check container health at runtime, and always update docker commands with the latest version of the image.

Docker Security Operations

Avoid image sprawl and container sprawl.

Docker Swarm Configuration

Enable swarm mode only if needed

Create a minimum number of manager nodes in a swarm

Bind swarm services are bound to a specific host interface

Encrypt containers data exchange on different overlay network nodes

Manage secrets in a Swarm cluster with Docker's secret management commands

Run swarm manager in auto-lock mode

Rotate swarm manager auto-lock key periodically

Rotate node and CA certificates as needed

Separate management plane traffic from data plane traffic

ONAP provides details on the VNF general security requirements on various security areas such as user access control, network security, ACLs, infrastructure security, and vulnerability management. These requirements cover topics associated with compliance, security patching, logging/accounting, authentication, encryption, role-based access control, least privilege access/authorization. This section summarizes requirements from ONAP, specifying how to integrate and operate VNFs within a robust security environment.

For more details see the full documentation: https://docs.onap.org/projects/onap-vnfrqts-requirements/en/latest/index.html

VNF General Security Requirements

This section provides details on the VNF general security requirements on various security areas such as user access control, network security, ACLs, infrastructure security, and vulnerability management. These requirements cover topics associated with compliance, security patching, logging/accounting, authentication, encryption, role-based access control, least privilege access/authorization. The following security requirements need to be met by the O-RAN NFs in a virtual environment:

The VNF must implement and enforce the principle of least privilege on all protected interfaces.

The VNF must provide a mechanism (e.g., access control list) to permit and/or restrict access to services on the VNF by source, destination, protocol, and/or port.

The VNF should provide a mechanism that enables the operators to perform automated system configuration auditing at configurable time intervals.

The VNF provider must follow GSMA vendor practices and SEI CERT Coding Standards when developing the VNF in order to minimize the risk of vulnerabilities. See GSMA NESAS Network Equipment Security Assurance Scheme – Development and Lifecycle Security Requirements Version 1.0 (https://www.gsma.com/ security/wp-content/uploads/2019/11/FS.16-NESAS-Development-and-Lifecycle-Security- Requirements-v1.0.pdf) and SEI CERT Coding Standards (https://wiki.sei.cmu.edu/ confluence/display/seccode/SEI+CERT+Coding+Standards).

The VNF must have all code (e.g., QCOW2) and configuration files (e.g., HEAT template, Ansible playbook, script) hardened, or with documented recommended configurations for hardening and interfaces that allow the Operator to harden the VNF. Actions taken to harden a system include disabling all unnecessary services, and changing default values such as default credentials and community strings.

The VNF should support the separation of (1) signaling and payload traffic (i.e., customer facing traffic), (2) operations, administration and management traffic, and (3) internal VNF traffic (i.e., east-west traffic such as storage access) using technologies such as VPN and VLAN.

The VNF Provider must have patches available for vulnerabilities in the VNF as soon as possible. Patching shall be controlled via change control process with vulnerabilities disclosed along with mitigation recommendations.

The VNF must support only encrypted access protocols, e.g., TLS 1.2/1.3.

The VNF must store authentication credentials used to authenticate to other systems encrypted except where there is a technical need to store the password unencrypted in which case it must be protected using other security techniques that include the use of file and directory permissions. Ideally, credentials should rely on a HW Root of Trust, such as a TPM or HSM.

VNFs that are subject to regulatory requirements must provide functionality that enables the Operator to comply with ETSI TC LI requirements, and, optionally, other relevant national equivalents.

The VNF must be able to authenticate and authorize all remote access.

The VNF must log any security event required by the VNF Requirements to Syslog using LOG_AUTHPRIV for any event that would contain sensitive information and LOG_AUTH for all other relevant events.

If SNMP is utilized, the VNF must support at least SNMPv3 with message authentication.

The VNF application processes should not run as root. If a VNF application process must run as root, the technical reason must be documented.

Login access (e.g., shell access) to the virtualization layer, whether interactive or as part of an automated process, must be through an encrypted protocol such as TLS 1.2/1.3.

The VNF must include a configuration (e.g. a template) that specifies the targeted parameters (e.g. a limited set of ports) over which the VNF will communicate; including internal, external and management communication.

Containerized components of VNFs should follow the recommendations for Container Base Images and Build File Configuration in the latest available version of the CIS Docker Community Edition Benchmarks to ensure that containerized VNFs are secure. All non-compliances with the benchmarks must be documented.

Containerized components of VNFs should execute in a Docker run-time environment that follows the Container Runtime Configuration in the latest available version of the CIS Docker Community Edition Benchmarks to ensure that containerized VNFs are secure. All non-compliances with the benchmarks must be documented.

VNF Identity and Access Management Requirements

The following security requirements for logging, identity, and access management need to be met by the O-RAN NFs in a virtual environment:

The VNF must, if not integrated with the Operator’s Identity and Access Management system, support the creation of multiple IDs so that individual accountability can be supported.

The VNF must, if not integrated with the operator’s IAM system, provide a mechanism for assigning roles and/or permissions to an identity.

The VNF must, if not integrated with the Operator’s Identity and Access Management system, support multifactor authentication on all protected interfaces exposed by the VNF for use by human users.

The VNF must support account names that contain at least A-Z, a-z, and 0–9-character sets and be at least 6 characters in length.

The VNF must, if not integrated with the Operator’s Identity and Access Management system, comply with “password complexity” policy and support configurable password expiration. When passwords are used, they shall be complex and shall at least meet the following password construction requirements: (1) be a minimum configurable number of characters in length, (2) include 3 of the 4 following types of characters: upper-case alphabetic, lower-case alphabetic, numeric, and special, (3) not be the same as the UserID with which they are associated or other common strings as specified by the environment, (4) not contain repeating or sequential characters or numbers, (5) not to use special characters that may have command functions, and (6) new passwords must not contain sequences of three or more characters from the previous password.

The VNF must allow the Operator to restrict access to protected resources based on the assigned permissions associated with an ID in order to support Least Privilege (no more privilege than required to perform job functions).

The VNF must set the default settings for user access to deny authorization, except for a super user type of account.

The VNF must not store authentication credentials to itself in clear text or any reversible form and must use salting.

The VNF must, if not integrated with the Operator’s Identity and Access Management system, support the ability to lock out the userID after a configurable number of consecutive unsuccessful authentication attempts using the same userID. The locking mechanism must be reversible by an administrator and should be reversible after a configurable time period.

The VNF must, if not integrated with the Operator’s identity and access management system, authenticate all access to protected resources.

The VNF must support LDAP in order to integrate with an external identity and access manage system. It MAY support other identity and access management protocols.

The VNF must not identify the reason for a failed authentication, only that the authentication failed.

The VNF must provide a means to explicitly logout, thus ending that session.

The VNF must provide explicit confirmation of a session termination such as a message, new page, or rerouting to a login page.

The VNF must, if not integrated with the Operator’s Identity and Access Management system, enforce a configurable “terminate idle sessions” policy by terminating the session after a configurable period of inactivity.

VNF API Security Requirements

This section covers API security requirements when these are used by the VNFs. Key security areas covered in API security are Access Control, Authentication, Passwords, PKI Authentication Alarming, Anomaly Detection, Lawful Intercept, Monitoring and Logging, Input Validation, Cryptography, Business continuity, Biometric Authentication, Identification, Confidentiality and Integrity, and Denial of Service.

The O-RAN NFs in a virtual environment needs to meet the following API security requirements:

The VNF should integrate with the Operator’s authentication and authorization services (e.g., IDAM).

The VNF must implement the following input validation control: Check the size (length) of all input. Do not permit an amount of input so great that it would cause the VNF to fail. Where the input may be a file, the VNF API must enforce a size limit.

The VNF must implement the following input validation controls: Do not permit input that contains content or characters inappropriate to the input expected by the design. Inappropriate input, such as SQL expressions, may cause the system to execute undesirable and unauthorized transactions against the database or allow other inappropriate access to the internal network (injection attacks).

The VNF must implement the following input validation control on APIs: Validate that any input file has a correct and valid Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME) type. Input files should be tested for spoofed MIME types.

VNF Security Analytics Requirements

This section covers VNF security analytics requirements that are mostly applicable to security monitoring. The VNF Security Analytics cover the collection and analysis of data following key areas of security monitoring:

Anti-virus software

Logging

Data capture

Tasking

DPI

API based monitoring

Detection and notification

Resource exhaustion detection

Proactive and scalable monitoring

Mobility and guest VNF monitoring

Closed loop monitoring

Interfaces to management and orchestration

Malformed packet detections

Service chaining

Dynamic security control

Dynamic load balancing

Connection attempts to inactive ports (malicious port scanning)

The following requirements of security monitoring need to be met by the O-RAN NFs in a virtual environment.

The VNF must support Real-time detection and notification of security events.

The VNF must support API-based monitoring to take care of the scenarios where the control interfaces are not exposed or are optimized and proprietary in nature.

The VNF must support detection of malformed packets due to software misconfiguration or software vulnerability and generate an error to the syslog console facility.

The VNF must support proactive monitoring to detect and report the attacks on resources so that the VNFs and associated VMs can be isolated, such as detection techniques for resource exhaustion, namely OS resource attacks, CPU attacks, consumption of kernel memory, local storage attacks.

The VNF should operate with anti-virus software which produces alarms every time a virus is detected.

The VNF must protect all security audit logs (including API, OS and application-generated logs), security audit software, data, and associated documentation from modification, or unauthorized viewing, by standard OS access control mechanisms, by sending to a remote system, or by encryption.

The VNF must log successful and unsuccessful authentication attempts, e.g., authentication associated with a transaction, authentication to create a session, authentication to assume elevated privilege.

The VNF must log logoffs.

The VNF must log starting and stopping of security logging.

The VNF must log success and unsuccessful creation, removal, or change to the inherent privilege level of users.

The VNF must log connections to the network listeners of the resource.

he VNF must log the field “event type” in the security audit logs.

The VNF must log the field “date/time” in the security audit logs.

The VNF must log the field “protocol” in the security audit logs.

The VNF must log the field “service or program used for access” in the security audit logs.

The VNF must log the field “success/failure” in the security audit logs.

The VNF must log the field “Login ID” in the security audit logs.

The VNF must not include an authentication credential, e.g., password, in the security audit logs, even if encrypted.

The VNF must detect when its security audit log storage medium is approaching capacity (configurable) and issue an alarm.

The VNF must support the capability of online storage of security audit logs.

The VNF must activate security alarms automatically when a configurable number of consecutive unsuccessful login attempts is reached.

The VNF must activate security alarms automatically when it detects the successful modification of a critical system or application file.

The VNF must activate security alarms automatically when it detects an unsuccessful attempt to gain permissions or assume the identity of another user.

The VNF must include the field “date” in the Security alarms (where applicable and technically feasible).

The VNF must include the field “time” in the Security alarms (where applicable and technically feasible).

The VNF must include the field “service or program used for access” in the Security alarms (where applicable and technically feasible).

The VNF must include the field “success/failure” in the Security alarms (where applicable and technically feasible).

The VNF must include the field “Login ID” in the Security alarms (where applicable and technically feasible).

The VNF must restrict changing the criticality level of a system security alarm to users with administrative privileges.

The VNF must monitor API invocation patterns to detect anomalous access patterns that may represent fraudulent access or other types of attacks or integrate with tools that implement anomaly and abuse detection.

The VNF must generate security audit logs that can be sent to Security Analytics Tools for analysis.

The VNF must log successful and unsuccessful access to VNF resources, including data.

The VNF must support the storage of security audit logs for a configurable period of time.

The VNF must have security logging for VNFs and their OSs be active from initialization. Audit logging includes automatic routines to maintain activity records and cleanup programs to ensure the integrity of the audit/logging systems.

The VNF must be implemented so that it is not vulnerable to OWASP Top 10 web application security risks.

The VNF must protect against all denial-of-service attacks, both volumetric and non-volumetric, or integrate with external denial of service protection tools.

The VNF must be capable of automatically synchronizing the system clock daily with the Operator’s trusted time source, to assure accurate time reporting in log files. It is recommended that Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) be used where possible, so as to eliminate ambiguity owing to daylight savings time.

The VNF must log the Source IP address in the security audit logs.

The VNF must have the capability to securely transmit the security logs and security events to a remote system before they are purged from the system.

The VNF should provide the capability of maintaining the integrity of its static files using a cryptographic method.

The VNF must log automated remote activities performed with elevated privileges.

VNF Data Protection Requirements

This section covers VNF data protection requirements that are mostly applicable to security monitoring.

The VNF MUST provide the capability to restrict read and write access to data handled by the VNF.

The VNF MUST Provide the capability to encrypt data in transit on a physical or virtual network.

The VNF MUST provide the capability to encrypt data on non-volatile memory. Non-volatile memory is storage that is capable of retaining data without electrical power, e.g. Complementary metal-oxide-semiconductor (CMOS) or hard drives.

The VNF SHOULD disable the paging of the data requiring encryption, if possible, where the encryption of non-transient data is required on a device for which the operating system performs paging to virtual memory. If not possible to disable the paging of the data requiring encryption, the virtual memory should be encrypted.

The VNF MUST use NIST and industry standard cryptographic algorithms and standard modes of operations when implementing cryptography.

The VNF MUST NOT use compromised encryption algorithms. For example, SHA, DSS, MD5, SHA-1 and Skipjack algorithms. Acceptable algorithms can be found in the NIST FIPS publications (https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/fips) and in the NIST Special Publications (https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/sp).

The VNF MUST use, whenever possible, standard implementations of security applications, protocols, and formats, e.g., S/MIME, TLS, SSH, IPSec, X.509 digital certificates for cryptographic implementations. These implementations must be purchased from reputable vendors or obtained from reputable open source communities and must not be developed in-house.

The VNF MUST provide the ability to migrate to newer versions of cryptographic algorithms and protocols with minimal impact.

The VNF MUST support digital certificates that comply with X.509 standards.

The VNF MUST NOT use keys generated or derived from predictable functions or values, e.g., values considered predictable include user identity information, time of day, stored/transmitted data.

The VNF MUST provide the capability of using X.509 certificates issued by an external Certificate Authority.

The VNF MUST be capable of protecting the confidentiality and integrity of data at rest and in transit from unauthorized access and modification.

VNF Cryptography Requirements

This section covers VNF cryptography requirements that are mostly applicable to encryption or protocol methods.

The VNF SHOULD support an automated certificate management protocol such as CMPv2, Simple Certificate Enrollment Protocol (SCEP) or Automated Certificate Management Environment (ACME).

The VNF SHOULD provide the capability to integrate with an external encryption service.

The VNF MUST use symmetric keys of at least 112 bits in length.

The VNF MUST use asymmetric keys of at least 2048 bits in length.

The VNF MUST provide the capability to configure encryption algorithms or devices so that they comply with the laws of the jurisdiction in which there are plans to use data encryption.

The VNF MUST provide the capability of allowing certificate renewal and revocation.

The VNF MUST provide the capability of testing the validity of a digital certificate by validating the CA signature on the certificate.

The VNF MUST provide the capability of testing the validity of a digital certificate by validating the date the certificate is being used is within the validity period for the certificate.

The VNF MUST provide the capability of testing the validity of a digital certificate by checking the Certificate Revocation List (CRL) for the certificates of that type to ensure that the certificate has not been revoked.

The VNF MUST provide the capability of testing the validity of a digital certificate by recognizing the identity represented by the certificate - the “distinguished name”.

The VNF MUST support HTTPS using TLS v1.2 or higher with strong cryptographic ciphers.

The VNF MUST support the use of X.509 certificates issued from any Certificate Authority (CA) that is compliant with RFC5280, e.g., a public CA such as DigiCert or Let’s Encrypt, or an RFC5280 compliant Operator CA.

NOTE: The VNF provider cannot require the use of self-signed certificates in an Operator’s run time environment.


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG11.TR.O-RUCUM-R004-v04.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG11.TR.O-RUCUM-R004-v04.00"
---


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG11.TR.OAuth2.0-Security.0-R004-v06.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG11.TR.OAuth2.0-Security.0-R004-v06.00 O-RAN Work Group 11 (Security Work Group)    OAuth 2.0 Security"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms

For the purposes of the present document, the following terms apply:

A1: Interface between non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC to enable policy-driven guidance of Near-RT RIC applications/functions, and support AI/ML workflow.

Access Token: credentials used to obtain access. It is a string, usually opaque to the client, representing an authorization issued to the client. Tokens represent specific scopes and durations of access, granted by the resource owner, and enforced by the resource server and authorization server (see [i.5], clause 1.4).

Authorization code: The authorization code is obtained by using an authorization server as an intermediary between the client and resource owner.  Instead of requesting authorization directly from the resource owner, the client directs the resource owner to an authorization server (via its user-agent as defined in [IETF RFC 2616]), which in turn directs the resource owner back to the client with the authorization code. ([i.5], clause 1.3.1)

Authorization Server: The server issuing access tokens to the client after successfully authenticating the resource owner and obtaining authorization. ([i.5], clause 1.1)

Client: An application making protected resource requests on behalf of the resource owner and with its authorization. The term "client" does not imply any particular implementation characteristics (e.g., whether the application executes on a server, a desktop, or other devices). ([i.5], clause 1.1)

Client Credentials: The client credentials (or other forms of client authentication) can be used as an authorization grant when the authorization scope is limited to the protected resources under the control of the client, or to protected resources previously arranged with the authorization server.  Client credentials are used as an authorization grant typically when the client is acting on its own behalf (the client is also the resource owner) or is requesting access to protected resources based on an authorization previously arranged with the authorization server. ([i.5], clause 1.3.4)

Coarse-grained authorization (CGA): uses one attribute (like user roles), making access control simple for smaller setups (see [i.25]).

Confidential client:  A client capable of maintaining the confidentiality of their credentials (e.g., client implemented on a secure server with restricted access to the client credentials), or capable of secure client authentication using other means as in clause 2.2 of [i.5].

CSRF: Cross-site request forgery (CSRF) is a web-based attack whereby HTTP requests are transmitted from a user that the web site trusts or has authenticated (e.g., via HTTP redirects or HTML forms). ([i.8], clause 4.4.1.8)

Fine-grained authorization (FGA): uses a combination of detailed attributes, offering precise control for larger, intricate environments (see [i.25]).

Near-Real-Time RAN Intelligent Controller: An O-RAN Network Function (NF) that enables near-real-time control and optimization of RAN elements and resources via fine-grained data collection and actions over E2 interface. It may include AI/ML (Artificial Intelligence / Machine Learning) workflow including model training, inference and updates.

Non-Real-Time RAN Intelligent Controller: A functionality within SMO that drives the content carried across the A1 interface.  It is comprised of the Non-RT RIC Framework and the Non-RT RIC Applications (rApps) whose services are defined below.

Non-RT RIC Applications (rApps): Modular applications that leverage the functionality exposed via the Non-RT RIC Framework’s R1 interface to provide added value services relative to RAN operation, such as driving the A1 interface, recommending values and actions that may be subsequently applied over the O1/O2 interface and generating “enrichment information” for the use of other rApps.  The rApp functionality within the Non-RT RIC enables non-real-time control and optimization of RAN elements and resources and policy-based guidance to the applications/features in Near-RT RIC.

O2: Interface between SMO framework as specified in clause 5.3.1 and the O-Cloud for supporting O-RAN virtual network functions. Please refer to [i.9] for more information.

Open Redirector: An open redirector is an endpoint using a parameter to automatically redirect a user-agent to the location specified by the parameter value without any validation. ([i.5], clause 10.15)

R1 Interface: Interface between rApps and Non-RT RIC Framework via which R1 Services can be produced and consumed.

Refresh token: Refresh tokens are credentials used to obtain access tokens.  Refresh tokens are issued to the client by the authorization server and are used to obtain a new access token when the current access token becomes invalid or expires, or to obtain additional access tokens with identical or narrower scope (access tokens may have a shorter lifetime and fewer permissions than authorized by the resource owner). ([i.5], clause 1.5)

Resource Owner: An entity capable of granting access to a protected resource. When the resource owner is a person, it is referred to as an end-user. ([i.5], clause 1.1)

Resource Server: The server hosting the protected resources, capable of accepting and responding to protected resource requests using access tokens. ([i.5], clause 1.1)

SMO: A Service Management and Orchestration framework.

User-Agent: The User-Agent request-header field contains information about the user agent originating the request. This is for statistical purposes, the tracing of protocol violations, and automated recognition of user agents for the sake of tailoring responses to avoid particular user agent limitations. ([i.12], clause 14.43)

xApp: An application designed to run on the Near-RT RIC. Such an application is likely to consist of one or more microservices and at the point of on-boarding will identify which data it consumes and which data it provides. The application is independent of the Near-RT RIC and may be provided by any third party. The E2 enables a direct association between the xApp and the RAN functionality.

Y1: An interface over which RAN analytics services are exposed by the Near-RT RIC to be consumed by Y1 consumers.

## 3.2 Symbols

Void

## 3.3 Abbreviations

For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:

- **3GPP**: 3rd Generation Partnership Project
- **Near-RT RIC**: Near-Real-Time RAN Intelligent Controller
- **rApp**: Non-RT RIC Application
- **SMO**: Service Management and Orchestration
- **xApp**: Near-RT RIC Application

# 4 Study and recommendation for OAuth 2.0

## 4.1  General Consideration

This Technical Report makes the following considerations:

- O-RAN Alliance WG1 has identified the key functions and interfaces [i.9] adopted in O-RAN and this will influence the set of assets to be protected for OAuth 2.0 framework.
- This TR will perform a detailed study of the OAuth 2.0 authorization server for O-RAN architecture elements and interfaces.
- Clause 4.7 in O-RAN Security Protocol Security specification [i.1] will be considered as the baseline text for the OAuth 2.0 framework.
- The recommended security requirements and controls provided in this report will be shared with the impacted O-RAN Alliance working group, such as WG1, WG2, WG3, WG6 and WG10 prior publishing them as normative.

## 4.2  IETF 6749

Editor’s note: This clause will do the study related to OAuth 2.0 framework from IETF RFC 6749

## 4.3  IETF 8705

Editor’s note: This clause will do the study related to OAuth 2.0 Mutual-TLS Client Authentication and Certificate-Bound Access Tokens from IETF RFC 8705

## 4.4  3GPP TS 33.122

Editor’s note: This clause will do the study related to OAuth 2.0 recommended from 3GPP specification (23.222, 29.222, 33.122, TS29.501)

## 4.5  ETSI NFV SEC022

Editor’s note: This clause will do the study related to OAuth 2.0 mechanism and definition from ETSI NFV SEC022

# 5 Threats

## 5.1 Assets

- The following O-RAN architecture elements and interfaces should be considered for the security threat analysis:

## 5.1.1     O-RAN Architecture Elements

- ASSET-C-01: Service Management and Orchestration (SMO)
- ASSET-C-02: Near-RT RIC software
- ASSET-C-07: O-eNB
- ASSET-C-08: O-Cloud
- ASSET-C-09: xApps
- ASSET-C-10: rApps
- ASSET-C-11: Non-RT RIC
- ASSET-C-32: O-RU
- ASSET-C-34: O-DU
- ASSET-C-36: O-CU Host, includes O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP software

## 5.1.2     O-RAN interfaces

- ASSET-C-14: A1 interface
- ASSET-C-16: R1 interface
- ASSET-C-23: O2 interface
- ASSET-C-42: Y1 interface
- ASSET-C-63: Near RT RIC API’s

## 5.2  Threats Template

Template to present the threat characteristics:

| Threat ID | O-RAN threat ID |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | [Threat Title will include suitable reference of 3GPP/IETF/ETSI] |
| Threat description | Introduction about the threat |
| Threat type | Spoofing Tampering Repudiation Information disclosure Denial of Service Elevation of Privilege |
| Vulnerability |  |
| Impact type | Authenticity Integrity Non-repudiation Confidentiality Availability Authorization |
| Affected Assets | Asset identification |

## 5.3  Potential Threat and Exploits

## 5.4  OAuth 2.0 Threats

The following threats to OAuth 2.0 have been identified and are analyzed in clause 6 Threat Analysis.

Table 5.4-1 – OAuth 2.0 threats

| Threat-Id | Threat Description (Brief) |
| --- | --- |
| General OAuth 2.0 Threats |  |
| T-OAuth-G-01 | Obtaining client secrets |
| T-OAuth-G-02 | Obtaining refresh tokens |
| T-OAuth-G-03 | Obtaining access tokens |
| T-OAuth-G-04 | Eavesdropping access tokens |
| T-OAuth-G-05 | Disclosure of client credentials during transmission |
| T-OAuth-G-06 | Open redirectors on client |
| T-OAuth-G-07 | Obtain a deployment specific secret |
| T-OAuth-G-08 | Obtaining authorization by code substitution (OAuth Login) |
| T-OAuth-G-09 | Access token leak in transport/endpoints |
| T-OAuth-G-10 | Malicious client obtains existing authorization by fraud |
| T-OAuth-G-11 | Malicious client obtains authorization |
| T-OAuth-G-12 | Accidental exposure of passwords at client site |
| T-OAuth-G-13 | Client obtains scopes without end-user authorization and possible misconfigurations |
| T-OAuth-G-14 | Client obtains refresh token through automatic authorization |
| T-OAuth-G-15 | Eavesdropping refresh tokens from authorization server |
| T-OAuth-G-16 | Obtaining refresh token by online guessing |
| T-OAuth-G-17 | Refresh token phishing by counterfeit authorization server |
| T-OAuth-G-18 | Guessing access tokens |
| T-OAuth-G-19 | Access token phishing by counterfeit resource server |
| T-OAuth-G-20 | Abuse of token by legitimate resource server or client |
| T-OAuth-G-21 | Token leakage via log files and http referrers |
| T-OAuth-G-22 | User unintentionally grants too much access scope |
| T-OAuth-G-23 | Leak of confidential data in HTTP proxies |
| T-OAuth-G-24 | Replay of authorized resource server requests |
| Authorization Server related threats |  |
| T-OAuth-AS-01 | Password phishing by counterfeit authorization server |
| T-OAuth-AS-02 | Obtaining access tokens from authorization server database |
| T-OAuth-AS-03 | Obtaining client secret from authorization server database |
| T-OAuth-AS-04 | Online guessing of authorization codes |
| T-OAuth-AS-05 | DoS attacks that exhaust resources |
| T-OAuth-AS-06 | CSRF attack against redirect-uri |
| T-OAuth-AS-07 | Resource owner impersonation |
| T-OAuth-AS-08 | DoS using manufactured authorization "codes" |
| T-OAuth-AS-09 | Obtaining user passwords from authorization server database |
| T-OAuth-AS-10 | Obtaining the resource owner password credentials by online guessing |
| T-OAuth-AS-11 | Obtaining refresh token from authorization server database |
| Access Control related Threats |  |
| T-O-RAN-03 | Attacks from the internet exploit weak authentication and access control to penetrate O-RAN network boundary |
| T-O-RAN-06 | An attacker exploits insufficient/improper mechanisms for authentication and authorization to compromise O-RAN components |
| T-R1-01 | An attacker gains unauthorized access to R1 services |
| T-R1-05 | An attacker gains unauthorized access to data |
| T-AppLCM-04 | Attacker exploits missing or improperly defined elements of application’s SecurityDescriptor |
| T-GEN-02 | Malicious access to exposed services using valid accounts |
| T-SMO-10 | Sensitive data at rest is exposed to an internal attacker |

NOTE: In above table 5.4-1, access control related threats are defined in [i.20]

# 6 Threat Analysis

## 6.1  General OAuth 2.0 Threats

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-G-01 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Obtaining client secrets, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.1.1 |
| Threat description | A malicious actor may be access the secrets and token of O-RAN architecture elements and use them to  replay its refresh tokens and authorization codes. |
| Threat type | Information disclosure Elevation of privilege |
| Vulnerability | Unsecured tokens and secrets |
| Impact type | Confidentiality Authorization |
| Affected Asset | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-G-02 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Obtaining refresh tokens, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.1.2 |
| Threat description | A malicious actor may get file system access of the local storage of O-RAN architecture elements and read the refresh tokens.  A malicious actor may use the compromised refresh token for a malicious application. |
| Threat type | Information disclosure |
| Vulnerability | A new refresh token was not issued |
| Impact type | Confidentiality |
| Affected Asset | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-G-03 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Obtaining access tokens, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.1.3 |
| Threat description | Access tokens may be stolen by a malicious actor from the local storage if the O-RAN architecture elements store them in a local storage that is accessible to other O-RAN architecture elements or applications without restriction proper access control. |
| Threat type | Elevation of privilege |
| Vulnerability | Insufficient protection for credentials |
| Impact type | Authorization |
| Affected Asset | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-G-04 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Eavesdropping access tokens, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.3.1 |
| Threat description | A malicious actor may attempt to eavesdrop on access tokens in transit from the authorization server to the O-RAN architecture elements and applications |
| Threat type | Information disclosure |
| Vulnerability | Non authenticated, weakly or incorrectly authenticated communication channels |
| Impact type | Confidentiality |
| Affected Asset | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-G-05 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Disclosure of client credentials during transmission, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.3.3 |
| Threat description | A malicious actor may attempt to eavesdrop the transmission of O-RAN architecture elements credentials between the application and authorization server during the O-RAN architecture elements authentication process or during OAuth token requests. |
| Threat type | Information disclosure |
| Vulnerability | Non authenticated, weakly or incorrectly authenticated communication channels |
| Impact type | Confidentiality |
| Affected Asset | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-G-06 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Open redirectors on client, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.1.5 |
| Threat description | A malicious actor may use an open redirector operated by the O-RAN Applications to construct a redirect URI that will pass the authorization server validation but will send authorization code to an endpoint under the control of a malicious actor. |
| Threat type | Information disclosure |
| Vulnerability | Non authenticated, weakly or incorrectly authenticated communication channels |
| Impact type | Authenticity |
| Affected Asset | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-G-07 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Obtain a deployment-specific secret, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.1.1 |
| Threat description | An attacker may try to gain the secret for a O-RAN client installation, either from a resource server or O-RAN Applications. |
| Threat type | Spoofing |
| Vulnerability | Malicious applications, insufficient access control |
| Impact type | Authenticity |
| Affected Asset | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-08 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Obtaining authorization by code substitution (OAuth Login), IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.4.1.13 |
| Threat description | An attacker could attempt to log into an application using a victim's identity. Applications relying on identity data provided by an OAuth protected service API to login users are vulnerable to this threat. |
| Threat type | Information disclosure |
| Vulnerability | Insufficient protection for credentials |
| Impact type | Authorization |
| Affected Asset | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-G-09 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Access token leak in transport/endpoints, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.4.2.1 |
| Threat description | A token may be eavesdropped by an attacker.  The token is sent from the server to the client via a URI fragment of the redirect URI. If the communication is not secured or the endpoint is not secured, the token could be leaked by parsing the returned URI. |
| Threat type | Information disclosure |
| Vulnerability | Non authenticated, weakly or incorrectly authenticated URI |
| Impact type | Authorization |
| Affected Asset | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-G-10 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Malicious client obtains existing authorization by fraud, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.2.3 |
| Threat description | Authorization servers may wish to automatically process authorization requests from client that have been previously authorized by the user. When the user is redirected to the authorization server's end-user authorization endpoint to grant access, the authorization server detects that the user has already granted access to that particular client. Instead of prompting the user for approval, the authorization server automatically redirects the user back to the client. A malicious client may exploit that feature and try to obtain such an authorization "code" instead of the legitimate client. |
| Threat type | Spoofing Repudiation |
| Vulnerability | Improper authorization process and lack of re-validating the authorization requests |
| Impact type | Authorization Non repudiation |
| Affected Asset | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-G-11 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Malicious client obtains authorization, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.4.2.3 |
| Threat description | A malicious client may attempt to obtain a token by fraud. |
| Threat type | Spoofing Repudiation |
| Vulnerability | Insufficient protection for credentials |
| Impact type | Authorization Non repudiation |
| Affected Asset | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-G-12 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Accidental exposure of passwords at client site, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.4.3.1 |
| Threat description | If the client does not provide enough protection, an attacker could retrieve the passwords for a user. |
| Threat type | Information Disclosure |
| Vulnerability | Insufficient protection for credentials |
| Impact type | Authorization |
| Affected Asset | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-G-13 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Client obtains scopes without end-user authorization and possible misconfigurations, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.4.3.2 |
| Threat description | An O-RAN Application like an rApp or xApp intentionally or unintentionally obtains a token with scope unknown for, or unintended by, the resource owner. |
| Threat type | Tampering Elevation of privilege |
| Vulnerability | misconfiguration |
| Impact type | Confidentiality Authorization |
| Affected Asset | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-G-14 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Client obtains refresh token through automatic  authorization,  IETF RFC 6819 4.4.3.3 [i.8], clause 4.4.3.3 |
| Threat description | An O-RAN application like an rApp or xApp obtains intentionally or unintentionally a long-term authorization represented by a refresh token even if the resource owner did not intend so |
| Threat type | Tampering Elevation of privilege |
| Vulnerability | Improper authorization process and lack of re-validating the authorization requests |
| Impact type | Confidentiality Authorization |
| Affected Asset | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-G-15 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Eavesdropping refresh tokens from authorization server, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.5.1 |
| Threat description | An O-RAN Application like an rApp or xApp may eavesdrop on refresh tokens when they are transmitted from the authorization server to the client. |
| Threat type | Tampering Elevation of privilege |
| Vulnerability | Non authenticated, weakly or incorrectly authenticated communication channels |
| Impact type | Confidentiality Authorization |
| Affected Asset | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-G-16 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Obtaining refresh token by online guessing, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.5.3 |
| Threat description | An O-RAN Application like an rApp or xApp may try to guess valid refresh token values and send it using the grant type "refresh_token" in order to obtain a valid access token. |
| Threat type | Tampering Elevation of privilege |
| Vulnerability | Improper authorization process and lack of re-validating the authorization requests |
| Impact type | Confidentiality Authorization |
| Affected Asset | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-G-17 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Refresh token phishing by counterfeit authorization server, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.5.4 |
| Threat description | An O-RAN Application like an rApp or xApp could obtain valid refresh tokens by proxying requests to the authorization server. |
| Threat type | Tampering Spoofing Elevation of privilege |
| Vulnerability | Non authenticated, weakly or incorrectly authenticated communication channels |
| Impact type | Confidentiality Authorization |
| Affected Asset | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-G-18 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Guessing access tokens, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.6.3 |
| Threat description | Access to a single user’s data is possible where an attacker may place a malicious rApp or xApp and attempt to guess the access token values based on knowledge from other access tokens. |
| Threat type | Tampering Elevation of privilege |
| Vulnerability | Insecure generation of access token |
| Impact type | Confidentiality Authorization |
| Affected Asset | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-G-19 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Access token phishing by counterfeit resource server, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.6.4 |
| Threat description | An O-RAN Application like an rApp or xApp may send a valid access token to a counterfeit resource server where the server in turn uses that token to access other services on behalf of the resource owner. |
| Threat type | Tampering Spoofing Elevation of privilege |
| Vulnerability | Insufficient protection for credentials |
| Impact type | Confidentiality Authorization |
| Affected Asset | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-G-20 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Abuse of token by legitimate resource server or client, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.6.5 |
| Threat description | An O-RAN legitimate resource server which is protecting the resources could use an access token to access another resource server. |
| Threat type | Tampering Elevation of privilege |
| Vulnerability | insufficient protection for access control on resource server |
| Impact type | Confidentiality Authorization |
| Affected Asset | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-G-21 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Token leakage via log files and HTTP referrers, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.6.7 |
| Threat description | An O-RAN Application such as an rApp or xApp may incorrectly send the access token in the URI query, allowing the access tokens to be leaked in log files and the HTTP “referer.” |
| Threat type | Tampering Elevation of privilege |
| Vulnerability | Improper implementation of API request |
| Impact type | Confidentiality Authorization |
| Affected Asset | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-G-22 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | User unintentionally grants too much access scope, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.2.2 |
| Threat description | An O-RAN Application such as an rApp or xApp may incorrectly implement scoping and end-user authorization, allowing unauthorized access to resources. |
| Threat type | Elevation of privilege |
| Vulnerability | Misconfiguration, insufficient authorization access |
| Impact type | Authorization |
| Affected Asset | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-G-23 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Leak of confidential data in HTTP proxies, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.6.6 |
| Threat description | As specified in SPS clause 4.7, OAuth HTTP authentication scheme is optional. However, as per [IETF RFC 2616] it relies on the Authorization and WWW-Authenticate headers to distinguish authenticated content so that it can be protected.  Proxies and caches, in particular, may fail to adequately protect requests not using these headers. |
| Threat type | Information disclosure |
| Vulnerability | Non authenticated, weakly or incorrectly authenticated communication channels |
| Impact type | Confidentiality |
| Affected Asset | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-G-24 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Replay of authorized resource server requests, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.6.2 |
| Threat description | An attacker may attempt to replay valid requests to obtain or modify/delete the O-RAN application data. |
| Threat type | Tampering |
| Vulnerability | Inadequacy of request validation of Resource server |
| Impact type | Integrity |
| Affected Asset | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 |

## 6.2  Authorization Server related Threats

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-AS-01 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Password phishing by counterfeit authorization server, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.2.1 |
| Threat description | A malicious actor may steal confidential data (e.g., Password) by intercepting the O-RAN Application’s request and exploit the URL endpoints managed by authorization server. |
| Threat type | Information disclosure |
| Vulnerability | Non authenticated, weakly or incorrectly authenticated communication channels |
| Impact type | Authenticity |
| Affected Asset | OAuth authorization server |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-AS-02 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Obtaining access tokens from authorization server database, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.3.2 |
| Threat description | A malicious actor may obtain access tokens from the authorization server's database by gaining access to the database or launching a SQL injection attack. |
| Threat type | Elevation of privilege |
| Vulnerability | Unsecured database, Insufficient protection for credentials |
| Impact type | Authorization |
| Affected Asset | OAuth authorization server |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-AS-03 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Obtaining client secret from authorization server database, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.3.4 |
| Threat description | A malicious actor may obtain valid client_id/secrets combinations from the authorization server's database by gaining access to the database or launching a SQL injection attack. |
| Threat type | Elevation of privilege |
| Vulnerability | Unsecured database |
| Impact type | Authorization |
| Affected Asset | OAuth authorization server |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-AS-04 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Online guessing of authorization codes, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.4.1.3 |
| Threat description | A malicious actor may try to guess valid authorization code values and send the guessed code value using the grant type code in order to obtain a valid access token. |
| Threat type | Information disclosure |
| Vulnerability | Improper authorization process and lack of re-validating the authorization requests |
| Impact type | Confidentiality |
| Affected Asset | OAuth authorization server |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-AS-05 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | DoS attacks that exhaust resources, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.4.1.11 |
| Threat description | A malicious actor may exhaust the pool of authorization codes of the authorization server by repeatedly directing the O-RAN Application to request the access tokens. |
| Threat type | Denial of Service |
| Vulnerability | Improper authorization process and lack of re-validating the authorization requests |
| Impact type | Availability |
| Affected Asset | OAuth authorization server |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-AS-06 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | CSRF attack against redirect-uri, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.4.1.8 |
| Threat description | CSRF attacks on OAuth approvals may allow a malicious actor to obtain authorization to OAuth protected resources without the consent of the O-RAN Applications. |
| Threat type | Elevation of privilege |
| Vulnerability | Improper authorization process and lack of re-validating the authorization requests |
| Impact type | Authorization |
| Affected Asset | OAuth authorization server |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-AS-07 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Resource owner impersonation, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.4.1.10 |
| Threat description | A malicious actor could obtain unauthorized access to a resource by using an existing authenticated session that causes the OAuth 2.0 authorization server to improperly bypass resource owner consent. |
| Threat type | Elevation of privilege |
| Vulnerability | Improper authorization process and lack of re-validating the authorization requests |
| Impact type | Authorization |
| Affected Asset | OAuth authorization server |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-AS-08 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | DoS using manufactured authorization "codes", IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.4.1.12 |
| Threat description | An attacker who owns a botnet may locate the redirect URIs of client that listen on HTTP, access them with random authorization "codes", and cause a large number of HTTPS connections to be concentrated onto the authorization server. This can result in a denial-of-service (DoS) attack on the authorization server. |
| Threat type | Denial of Service |
| Vulnerability | Non authenticated, weakly or incorrectly authenticated communication channels |
| Impact type | Availability |
| Affected Asset | OAuth authorization server |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-AS-09 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Obtaining user passwords from authorization server database, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.4.3.5 |
| Threat description | An attacker may obtain valid username/password combinations from the authorization server's database by gaining access to the database or launching a SQL injection attack. |
| Threat type | Information disclosure |
| Vulnerability | Unsecured database, Insufficient protection for credentials |
| Impact type | Authorization Information disclosure |
| Affected Asset | OAuth authorization server |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-AS-10 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Obtaining the resource owner password credentials by online guessing, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.4.3.6 |
| Threat description | An attacker may try to guess valid username/password combinations using the grant type "password". |
| Threat type | Information disclosure |
| Vulnerability | Unsecure credentials |
| Impact type | Authorization |
| Affected Asset | OAuth authorization server |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-AS-11 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Obtaining refresh token from authorization server database, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.5.2 |
| Threat description | This threat is applicable if the authorization server stores refresh tokens as handles in a database.  An attacker may obtain refresh tokens from the authorization server's database by gaining access to the database or launching a SQL injection attack. |
| Threat type | Information disclosure |
| Vulnerability | Unsecured database |
| Impact type | Authorization |
| Affected Asset | OAuth authorization server |

# 7 Risk Assessment

## 7.1    Security Controls

The following security controls should be considered for the security threat and risk analysis:

- Control-1: OAuth 2.0
- Control-2: IAM (using RBAC)
- Control-3: Certificate Management
- Control-4: Encryption for Data at Rest
- Control-5: Encryption for Data in Motion (eg., TLS)

## 7.2   OAuth 2.0 Risk Analysis

This clause provides risk assessment tables for each of the identified assets.  These tables list the assets, threats, impacts, and possible security controls. The following risk assessment matrix is used to assess the risk score as defined in [i.20].

Table 7-2-1 OAuth 2.0 risk analysis

| Asset-Id | Asset Name | Threat-Id | Threat Description (Brief) | Impact/  Likelihood Raw Score | Possible Security Controls | Security Control-id |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-OAuth-G-01 | Obtaining client secrets | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data encryption, OAuth 2.0 | Control-1 Control-2 Control-4 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-02 | Near-RT RIC software | T-OAuth-G-01 | Obtaining client secrets | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data encryption, OAuth 2.0 | Control-1 Control-2 Control-4 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-07 | O-eNB | T-OAuth-G-01 | Obtaining client secrets | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data encryption, OAuth 2.0 | Control-1 Control-2 Control-4 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-08 | O-Cloud | T-OAuth-G-01 | Obtaining client secrets | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data encryption, OAuth 2.0 | Control-1 Control-2 Control-4 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-09 | xApps | T-OAuth-G-01 | Obtaining client secrets | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data encryption, OAuth 2.0 | Control-1 Control-2 Control-4 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-10 | rApps | T-OAuth-G-01 | Obtaining client secrets | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data encryption, OAuth 2.0 | Control-1 Control-2 Control-4 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-11 | Non-RT RIC | T-OAuth-G-01 | Obtaining client secrets | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data encryption, OAuth 2.0 | Control-1 Control-2 Control-4 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-32 | O-RU | T-OAuth-G-01 | Obtaining client secrets | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data encryption, OAuth 2.0 | Control-1 Control-2 Control-4 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-34 | O-DU | T-OAuth-G-01 | Obtaining client secrets | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data encryption, OAuth 2.0 | Control-1 Control-2 Control-4 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-36 | O-CU Host, includes O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP software | T-OAuth-G-01 | Obtaining client secrets | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data encryption, OAuth 2.0 | Control-1 Control-2 Control-4 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-OAuth-G-02 | Obtaining refresh tokens | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data encryption | Control-4 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-02 | Near-RT RIC software | T-OAuth-G-02 | Obtaining refresh tokens | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data encryption | Control-4 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-07 | O-eNB | T-OAuth-G-02 | Obtaining refresh tokens | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data encryption | Control-4 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-08 | O-Cloud | T-OAuth-G-02 | Obtaining refresh tokens | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data encryption | Control-4 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-09 | xApps | T-OAuth-G-02 | Obtaining refresh tokens | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data encryption | Control-4 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-10 | rApps | T-OAuth-G-02 | Obtaining refresh tokens | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data encryption | Control-4 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-11 | Non-RT RIC | T-OAuth-G-02 | Obtaining refresh tokens | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data encryption | Control-4 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-32 | O-RU | T-OAuth-G-02 | Obtaining refresh tokens | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data encryption | Control-4 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-34 | O-DU | T-OAuth-G-02 | Obtaining refresh tokens | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data encryption | Control-4 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-36 | O-CU Host, includes O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP software | T-OAuth-G-02 | Obtaining refresh tokens | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data encryption | Control-4 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-OAuth-G-03 | Obtaining access tokens | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data encryption, IAM | Control-2 Control-4 |
| ASSET-C-02 | Near-RT RIC software | T-OAuth-G-03 | Obtaining access tokens | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data encryption, IAM | Control-2 Control-4 |
| ASSET-C-07 | O-eNB | T-OAuth-G-03 | Obtaining access tokens | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data encryption, IAM | Control-2 Control-4 |
| ASSET-C-08 | O-Cloud | T-OAuth-G-03 | Obtaining access tokens | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data encryption, IAM | Control-2 Control-4 |
| ASSET-C-09 | xApps | T-OAuth-G-03 | Obtaining access tokens | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data encryption, IAM | Control-2 Control-4 |
| ASSET-C-10 | rApps | T-OAuth-G-03 | Obtaining access tokens | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data encryption, IAM | Control-2 Control-4 |
| ASSET-C-11 | Non-RT RIC | T-OAuth-G-03 | Obtaining access tokens | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data encryption, IAM | Control-2 Control-4 |
| ASSET-C-32 | O-RU | T-OAuth-G-03 | Obtaining access tokens | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data encryption, IAM | Control-2 Control-4 |
| ASSET-C-34 | O-DU | T-OAuth-G-03 | Obtaining access tokens | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data encryption, IAM | Control-2 Control-4 |
| ASSET-C-36 | O-CU Host, includes O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP software | T-OAuth-G-03 | Obtaining access tokens | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data encryption, IAM | Control-2 Control-4 |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-OAuth-G-04 | Eavesdropping access tokens | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-02 | Near-RT RIC software | T-OAuth-G-04 | Eavesdropping access tokens | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-07 | O-eNB | T-OAuth-G-04 | Eavesdropping access tokens | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-08 | O-Cloud | T-OAuth-G-04 | Eavesdropping access tokens | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-09 | xApps | T-OAuth-G-04 | Eavesdropping access tokens | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-10 | rApps | T-OAuth-G-04 | Eavesdropping access tokens | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-11 | Non-RT RIC | T-OAuth-G-04 | Eavesdropping access tokens | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-32 | O-RU | T-OAuth-G-04 | Eavesdropping access tokens | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-34 | O-DU | T-OAuth-G-04 | Eavesdropping access tokens | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-36 | O-CU Host, includes O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP software | T-OAuth-G-04 | Eavesdropping access tokens | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-OAuth-G-05 | Disclosure of client credentials during transmission | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-02 | Near-RT RIC software | T-OAuth-G-05 | Disclosure of client credentials during transmission | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-07 | O-eNB | T-OAuth-G-05 | Disclosure of client credentials during transmission | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-08 | O-Cloud | T-OAuth-G-05 | Disclosure of client credentials during transmission | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-09 | xApps | T-OAuth-G-05 | Disclosure of client credentials during transmission | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-10 | rApps | T-OAuth-G-05 | Disclosure of client credentials during transmission | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-11 | Non-RT RIC | T-OAuth-G-05 | Disclosure of client credentials during transmission | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-32 | O-RU | T-OAuth-G-05 | Disclosure of client credentials during transmission | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-34 | O-DU | T-OAuth-G-05 | Disclosure of client credentials during transmission | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-36 | O-CU Host, includes O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP software | T-OAuth-G-05 | Disclosure of client credentials during transmission | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-OAuth-G-06 | Open redirectors on client | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication, IAM | Control-1, Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-02 | Near-RT RIC software | T-OAuth-G-06 | Open redirectors on client | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication, IAM | Control-1, Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-07 | O-eNB | T-OAuth-G-06 | Open redirectors on client | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication, IAM | Control-1, Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-08 | O-Cloud | T-OAuth-G-06 | Open redirectors on client | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication, IAM | Control-1, Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-09 | xApps | T-OAuth-G-06 | Open redirectors on client | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication, IAM | Control-1, Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-10 | rApps | T-OAuth-G-06 | Open redirectors on client | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication, IAM | Control-1, Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-11 | Non-RT RIC | T-OAuth-G-06 | Open redirectors on client | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication, IAM | Control-1, Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-32 | O-RU | T-OAuth-G-06 | Open redirectors on client | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication, IAM | Control-1, Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-34 | O-DU | T-OAuth-G-06 | Open redirectors on client | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication, IAM | Control-1, Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-36 | O-CU Host, includes O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP software | T-OAuth-G-06 | Open redirectors on client | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication, IAM | Control-1, Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-OAuth-G-07 | Obtain a deployment-specific secret | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data encryption, Access control | Control-2 Control-4 |
| ASSET-C-02 | Near-RT RIC software | T-OAuth-G-07 | Obtain a deployment-specific secret | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data encryption, Access control | Control-2 Control-4 |
| ASSET-C-07 | O-eNB | T-OAuth-G-07 | Obtain a deployment-specific secret | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data encryption, Access control | Control-2 Control-4 |
| ASSET-C-08 | O-Cloud | T-OAuth-G-07 | Obtain a deployment-specific secret | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data encryption, Access control | Control-2 Control-4 |
| ASSET-C-09 | xApps | T-OAuth-G-07 | Obtain a deployment-specific secret | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data encryption, Access control | Control-2 Control-4 |
| ASSET-C-10 | rApps | T-OAuth-G-07 | Obtain a deployment-specific secret | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data encryption, Access control | Control-2 Control-4 |
| ASSET-C-11 | Non-RT RIC | T-OAuth-G-07 | Obtain a deployment-specific secret | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data encryption, Access control | Control-2 Control-4 |
| ASSET-C-32 | O-RU | T-OAuth-G-07 | Obtain a deployment-specific secret | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data encryption, Access control | Control-2 Control-4 |
| ASSET-C-34 | O-DU | T-OAuth-G-07 | Obtain a deployment-specific secret | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data encryption, Access control | Control-2 Control-4 |
| ASSET-C-36 | O-CU Host, includes O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP software | T-OAuth-G-07 | Obtain a deployment-specific secret | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data encryption, Access control | Control-2 Control-4 |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-OAuth-G-08 | Obtaining authorization by code substitution (OAuth Login) | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-02 | Near-RT RIC software | T-OAuth-G-08 | Obtaining authorization by code substitution (OAuth Login) | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-07 | O-eNB | T-OAuth-G-08 | Obtaining authorization by code substitution (OAuth Login) | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-08 | O-Cloud | T-OAuth-G-08 | Obtaining authorization by code substitution (OAuth Login) | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-09 | xApps | T-OAuth-G-08 | Obtaining authorization by code substitution (OAuth Login) | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-10 | rApps | T-OAuth-G-08 | Obtaining authorization by code substitution (OAuth Login) | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-11 | Non-RT RIC | T-OAuth-G-08 | Obtaining authorization by code substitution (OAuth Login) | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-32 | O-RU | T-OAuth-G-08 | Obtaining authorization by code substitution (OAuth Login) | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-34 | O-DU | T-OAuth-G-08 | Obtaining authorization by code substitution (OAuth Login) | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-36 | O-CU Host, includes O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP software | T-OAuth-G-08 | Obtaining authorization by code substitution (OAuth Login) | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-OAuth-G-09 | Access token leak in transport/endpoints | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-02 | Near-RT RIC software | T-OAuth-G-09 | Access token leak in transport/endpoints | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-07 | O-eNB | T-OAuth-G-09 | Access token leak in transport/endpoints | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-08 | O-Cloud | T-OAuth-G-09 | Access token leak in transport/endpoints | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-09 | xApps | T-OAuth-G-09 | Access token leak in transport/endpoints | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-10 | rApps | T-OAuth-G-09 | Access token leak in transport/endpoints | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-11 | Non-RT RIC | T-OAuth-G-09 | Access token leak in transport/endpoints | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-32 | O-RU | T-OAuth-G-09 | Access token leak in transport/endpoints | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-34 | O-DU | T-OAuth-G-09 | Access token leak in transport/endpoints | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-36 | O-CU Host, includes O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP software | T-OAuth-G-09 | Access token leak in transport/endpoints | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-OAuth-G-10 | Malicious client obtains existing authorization by fraud | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control | Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-02 | Near-RT RIC software | T-OAuth-G-10 | Malicious client obtains existing authorization by fraud | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control | Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-07 | O-eNB | T-OAuth-G-10 | Malicious client obtains existing authorization by fraud | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control | Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-08 | O-Cloud | T-OAuth-G-10 | Malicious client obtains existing authorization by fraud | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control | Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-09 | xApps | T-OAuth-G-10 | Malicious client obtains existing authorization by fraud | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control | Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-10 | rApps | T-OAuth-G-10 | Malicious client obtains existing authorization by fraud | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control | Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-11 | Non-RT RIC | T-OAuth-G-10 | Malicious client obtains existing authorization by fraud | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control | Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-32 | O-RU | T-OAuth-G-10 | Malicious client obtains existing authorization by fraud | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control | Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-34 | O-DU | T-OAuth-G-10 | Malicious client obtains existing authorization by fraud | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control | Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-36 | O-CU Host, includes O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP software | T-OAuth-G-10 | Malicious client obtains existing authorization by fraud | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control | Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-OAuth-G-11 | Malicious client obtains authorization | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Identity Management, Data Encryption | Control-1 Control-2 Control-4 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-02 | Near-RT RIC software | T-OAuth-G-11 | Malicious client obtains authorization | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Identity Management, Data Encryption | Control-1 Control-2 Control-4 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-07 | O-eNB | T-OAuth-G-11 | Malicious client obtains authorization | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Identity Management, Data Encryption | Control-1 Control-2 Control-4 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-08 | O-Cloud | T-OAuth-G-11 | Malicious client obtains authorization | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Identity Management, Data Encryption | Control-1 Control-2 Control-4 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-09 | xApps | T-OAuth-G-11 | Malicious client obtains authorization | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Identity Management, Data Encryption | Control-1 Control-2 Control-4 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-10 | rApps | T-OAuth-G-11 | Malicious client obtains authorization | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Identity Management, Data Encryption | Control-1 Control-2 Control-4 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-11 | Non-RT RIC | T-OAuth-G-11 | Malicious client obtains authorization | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Identity Management, Data Encryption | Control-1 Control-2 Control-4 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-32 | O-RU | T-OAuth-G-11 | Malicious client obtains authorization | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Identity Management, Data Encryption | Control-1 Control-2 Control-4 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-34 | O-DU | T-OAuth-G-11 | Malicious client obtains authorization | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Identity Management, Data Encryption | Control-1 Control-2 Control-4 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-36 | O-CU Host, includes O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP software | T-OAuth-G-11 | Malicious client obtains authorization | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Identity Management, Data Encryption | Control-1 Control-2 Control-4 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-OAuth-G-12 | Accidental exposure of passwords at client site | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data Encryption | Control-4 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-02 | Near-RT RIC software | T-OAuth-G-12 | Accidental exposure of passwords at client site | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data Encryption | Control-4 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-07 | O-eNB | T-OAuth-G-12 | Accidental exposure of passwords at client site | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data Encryption | Control-4 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-08 | O-Cloud | T-OAuth-G-12 | Accidental exposure of passwords at client site | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data Encryption | Control-4 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-09 | xApps | T-OAuth-G-12 | Accidental exposure of passwords at client site | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data Encryption | Control-4 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-10 | rApps | T-OAuth-G-12 | Accidental exposure of passwords at client site | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data Encryption | Control-4 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-11 | Non-RT RIC | T-OAuth-G-12 | Accidental exposure of passwords at client site | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data Encryption | Control-4 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-32 | O-RU | T-OAuth-G-12 | Accidental exposure of passwords at client site | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data Encryption | Control-4 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-34 | O-DU | T-OAuth-G-12 | Accidental exposure of passwords at client site | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data Encryption | Control-4 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-36 | O-CU Host, includes O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP software | T-OAuth-G-12 | Accidental exposure of passwords at client site | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data Encryption | Control-4 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-OAuth-G-13 | Client obtains scopes without end-user authorization and possible misconfigurations | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-02 | Near-RT RIC software | T-OAuth-G-13 | Client obtains scopes without end-user authorization and possible misconfigurations | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-07 | O-eNB | T-OAuth-G-13 | Client obtains scopes without end-user authorization and possible misconfigurations | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-08 | O-Cloud | T-OAuth-G-13 | Client obtains scopes without end-user authorization and possible misconfigurations | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-09 | xApps | T-OAuth-G-13 | Client obtains scopes without end-user authorization and possible misconfigurations | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-10 | rApps | T-OAuth-G-13 | Client obtains scopes without end-user authorization and possible misconfigurations | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-11 | Non-RT RIC | T-OAuth-G-13 | Client obtains scopes without end-user authorization and possible misconfigurations | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-32 | O-RU | T-OAuth-G-13 | Client obtains scopes without end-user authorization and possible misconfigurations | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-34 | O-DU | T-OAuth-G-13 | Client obtains scopes without end-user authorization and possible misconfigurations | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-36 | O-CU Host, includes O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP software | T-OAuth-G-13 | Client obtains scopes without end-user authorization and possible misconfigurations | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-OAuth-G-14 | Client obtains refresh token through automatic  authorization | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-02 | Near-RT RIC software | T-OAuth-G-14 | Client obtains refresh token through automatic  authorization | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-07 | O-eNB | T-OAuth-G-14 | Client obtains refresh token through automatic  authorization | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-08 | O-Cloud | T-OAuth-G-14 | Client obtains refresh token through automatic  authorization | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-09 | xApps | T-OAuth-G-14 | Client obtains refresh token through automatic  authorization | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-10 | rApps | T-OAuth-G-14 | Client obtains refresh token through automatic  authorization | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-11 | Non-RT RIC | T-OAuth-G-14 | Client obtains refresh token through automatic  authorization | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-32 | O-RU | T-OAuth-G-14 | Client obtains refresh token through automatic  authorization | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-34 | O-DU | T-OAuth-G-14 | Client obtains refresh token through automatic  authorization | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-36 | O-CU Host, includes O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP software | T-OAuth-G-14 | Client obtains refresh token through automatic  authorization | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-OAuth-G-15 | Eavesdropping refresh tokens from authorization server | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-02 | Near-RT RIC software | T-OAuth-G-15 | Eavesdropping refresh tokens from authorization server | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-07 | O-eNB | T-OAuth-G-15 | Eavesdropping refresh tokens from authorization server | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-08 | O-Cloud | T-OAuth-G-15 | Eavesdropping refresh tokens from authorization server | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-09 | xApps | T-OAuth-G-15 | Eavesdropping refresh tokens from authorization server | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-10 | rApps | T-OAuth-G-15 | Eavesdropping refresh tokens from authorization server | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-11 | Non-RT RIC | T-OAuth-G-15 | Eavesdropping refresh tokens from authorization server | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-32 | O-RU | T-OAuth-G-15 | Eavesdropping refresh tokens from authorization server | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-34 | O-DU | T-OAuth-G-15 | Eavesdropping refresh tokens from authorization server | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-36 | O-CU Host, includes O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP software | T-OAuth-G-15 | Eavesdropping refresh tokens from authorization server | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-OAuth-G-16 | Obtaining refresh token by online guessing | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-02 | Near-RT RIC software | T-OAuth-G-16 | Obtaining refresh token by online guessing | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-07 | O-eNB | T-OAuth-G-16 | Obtaining refresh token by online guessing | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-08 | O-Cloud | T-OAuth-G-16 | Obtaining refresh token by online guessing | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-09 | xApps | T-OAuth-G-16 | Obtaining refresh token by online guessing | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-10 | rApps | T-OAuth-G-16 | Obtaining refresh token by online guessing | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-11 | Non-RT RIC | T-OAuth-G-16 | Obtaining refresh token by online guessing | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-32 | O-RU | T-OAuth-G-16 | Obtaining refresh token by online guessing | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-34 | O-DU | T-OAuth-G-16 | Obtaining refresh token by online guessing | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-36 | O-CU Host, includes O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP software | T-OAuth-G-16 | Obtaining refresh token by online guessing | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-OAuth-G-17 | Refresh token phishing by counterfeit authorization server | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication, Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-02 | Near-RT RIC software |  |  |  |  |  |
| ASSET-C-07 | O-eNB |  |  |  |  |  |
| ASSET-C-08 | O-Cloud |  |  |  |  |  |
| ASSET-C-09 | xApps |  |  |  |  |  |
| ASSET-C-10 | rApps |  |  |  |  |  |
| ASSET-C-11 | Non-RT RIC |  |  |  |  |  |
| ASSET-C-32 | O-RU |  |  |  |  |  |
| ASSET-C-34 | O-DU |  |  |  |  |  |
| ASSET-C-36 | O-CU Host, includes O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP software |  |  |  |  |  |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-OAuth-G-18 | Guessing access tokens | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-02 | Near-RT RIC software | T-OAuth-G-18 | Guessing access tokens | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-07 | O-eNB | T-OAuth-G-18 | Guessing access tokens | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-08 | O-Cloud | T-OAuth-G-18 | Guessing access tokens | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-09 | xApps | T-OAuth-G-18 | Guessing access tokens | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-10 | rApps | T-OAuth-G-18 | Guessing access tokens | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-11 | Non-RT RIC | T-OAuth-G-18 | Guessing access tokens | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-32 | O-RU | T-OAuth-G-18 | Guessing access tokens | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-34 | O-DU | T-OAuth-G-18 | Guessing access tokens | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-36 | O-CU Host, includes O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP software | T-OAuth-G-18 | Guessing access tokens | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-OAuth-G-19 | Access token phishing by counterfeit resource server | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication, Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-02 | Near-RT RIC software | T-OAuth-G-19 | Access token phishing by counterfeit resource server | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication, Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-07 | O-eNB | T-OAuth-G-19 | Access token phishing by counterfeit resource server | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication, Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-08 | O-Cloud | T-OAuth-G-19 | Access token phishing by counterfeit resource server | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication, Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-09 | xApps | T-OAuth-G-19 | Access token phishing by counterfeit resource server | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication, Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-10 | rApps | T-OAuth-G-19 | Access token phishing by counterfeit resource server | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication, Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-11 | Non-RT RIC | T-OAuth-G-19 | Access token phishing by counterfeit resource server | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication, Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-32 | O-RU | T-OAuth-G-19 | Access token phishing by counterfeit resource server | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication, Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-34 | O-DU | T-OAuth-G-19 | Access token phishing by counterfeit resource server | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication, Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-36 | O-CU Host, includes O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP software | T-OAuth-G-19 | Access token phishing by counterfeit resource server | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication, Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-OAuth-G-20 | Abuse of token by legitimate resource server or client | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-02 | Near-RT RIC software | T-OAuth-G-20 | Abuse of token by legitimate resource server or client | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-07 | O-eNB | T-OAuth-G-20 | Abuse of token by legitimate resource server or client | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-08 | O-Cloud | T-OAuth-G-20 | Abuse of token by legitimate resource server or client | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-09 | xApps | T-OAuth-G-20 | Abuse of token by legitimate resource server or client | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-10 | rApps | T-OAuth-G-20 | Abuse of token by legitimate resource server or client | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-11 | Non-RT RIC | T-OAuth-G-20 | Abuse of token by legitimate resource server or client | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-32 | O-RU | T-OAuth-G-20 | Abuse of token by legitimate resource server or client | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-34 | O-DU | T-OAuth-G-20 | Abuse of token by legitimate resource server or client | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-36 | O-CU Host, includes O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP software | T-OAuth-G-20 | Abuse of token by legitimate resource server or client | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-OAuth-G-21 | Token leakage via log files and HTTP referrers | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management,  Data encryption | Control-1 Control-2 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-02 | Near-RT RIC software | T-OAuth-G-21 | Token leakage via log files and HTTP referrers | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management,  Data encryption | Control-1 Control-2 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-07 | O-eNB | T-OAuth-G-21 | Token leakage via log files and HTTP referrers | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management,  Data encryption | Control-1 Control-2 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-08 | O-Cloud | T-OAuth-G-21 | Token leakage via log files and HTTP referrers | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management,  Data encryption | Control-1 Control-2 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-09 | xApps | T-OAuth-G-21 | Token leakage via log files and HTTP referrers | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management,  Data encryption | Control-1 Control-2 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-10 | rApps | T-OAuth-G-21 | Token leakage via log files and HTTP referrers | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management,  Data encryption | Control-1 Control-2 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-11 | Non-RT RIC | T-OAuth-G-21 | Token leakage via log files and HTTP referrers | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management,  Data encryption | Control-1 Control-2 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-32 | O-RU | T-OAuth-G-21 | Token leakage via log files and HTTP referrers | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management,  Data encryption | Control-1 Control-2 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-34 | O-DU | T-OAuth-G-21 | Token leakage via log files and HTTP referrers | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management,  Data encryption | Control-1 Control-2 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-36 | O-CU Host, includes O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP software | T-OAuth-G-21 | Token leakage via log files and HTTP referrers | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management,  Data encryption | Control-1 Control-2 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-OAuth-G-22 | User unintentionally grants too much access scope | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-02 | Near-RT RIC software | T-OAuth-G-22 | User unintentionally grants too much access scope | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-07 | O-eNB | T-OAuth-G-22 | User unintentionally grants too much access scope | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-08 | O-Cloud | T-OAuth-G-22 | User unintentionally grants too much access scope | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-09 | xApps | T-OAuth-G-22 | User unintentionally grants too much access scope | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-10 | rApps | T-OAuth-G-22 | User unintentionally grants too much access scope | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-11 | Non-RT RIC | T-OAuth-G-22 | User unintentionally grants too much access scope | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-32 | O-RU | T-OAuth-G-22 | User unintentionally grants too much access scope | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-34 | O-DU | T-OAuth-G-22 | User unintentionally grants too much access scope | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-36 | O-CU Host, includes O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP software | T-OAuth-G-22 | User unintentionally grants too much access scope | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Access control, Identity Management | Control-1 Control-2 |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-OAuth-G-23 | Leak of confidential data in HTTP proxies | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication, Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-02 | Near-RT RIC software | T-OAuth-G-23 | Leak of confidential data in HTTP proxies | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication, Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-07 | O-eNB | T-OAuth-G-23 | Leak of confidential data in HTTP proxies | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication, Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-08 | O-Cloud | T-OAuth-G-23 | Leak of confidential data in HTTP proxies | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication, Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-09 | xApps | T-OAuth-G-23 | Leak of confidential data in HTTP proxies | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication, Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-10 | rApps | T-OAuth-G-23 | Leak of confidential data in HTTP proxies | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication, Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-11 | Non-RT RIC | T-OAuth-G-23 | Leak of confidential data in HTTP proxies | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication, Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-32 | O-RU | T-OAuth-G-23 | Leak of confidential data in HTTP proxies | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication, Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-34 | O-DU | T-OAuth-G-23 | Leak of confidential data in HTTP proxies | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication, Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-36 | O-CU Host, includes O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP software | T-OAuth-G-23 | Leak of confidential data in HTTP proxies | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication, Data encryption | Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-OAuth-G-24 | Replay of authorized resource server requests | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication, Data encryption, Identity Management | Control-2 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-02 | Near-RT RIC software | T-OAuth-G-24 | Replay of authorized resource server requests | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication, Data encryption, Identity Management | Control-2 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-07 | O-eNB | T-OAuth-G-24 | Replay of authorized resource server requests | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication, Data encryption, Identity Management | Control-2 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-08 | O-Cloud | T-OAuth-G-24 | Replay of authorized resource server requests | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication, Data encryption, Identity Management | Control-2 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-09 | xApps | T-OAuth-G-24 | Replay of authorized resource server requests | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication, Data encryption, Identity Management | Control-2 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-10 | rApps | T-OAuth-G-24 | Replay of authorized resource server requests | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication, Data encryption, Identity Management | Control-2 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-11 | Non-RT RIC | T-OAuth-G-24 | Replay of authorized resource server requests | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication, Data encryption, Identity Management | Control-2 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-32 | O-RU | T-OAuth-G-24 | Replay of authorized resource server requests | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication, Data encryption, Identity Management | Control-2 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-34 | O-DU | T-OAuth-G-24 | Replay of authorized resource server requests | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication, Data encryption, Identity Management | Control-2 Control-5 |
| ASSET-C-36 | O-CU Host, includes O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP software | T-OAuth-G-24 | Replay of authorized resource server requests | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Authentication, Data encryption, Identity Management | Control-2 Control-5 |

# 8 Void

The following security controls should be considered for the security threat and risk analysis:

- Control-1: OAuth 2.0
- Control-2: IAM (using RBAC)
- Control-3: Certificate Management
- Control-4: Encryption for Data at Rest
- Control-5: Encryption for Data in Motion

# 9 OAuth 2.0 Authorization framework

## 9.1  Overview

Figure 9.1-1 depicts the basic OAuth 2.0 framework for O-RAN architecture elements and applications. This general authorization framework is generalized from clause 1 of IETF RFC 6749 [i.5].

Figure 9.1-1 OAuth 2.0 framework for O-RAN architecture elements and applications

O-RAN OAuth 2.0 framework defines four roles from clause 1 of IETF RFC 6749 [i.5]:

- O-RAN client: An O-RAN client is an O-RAN architecture element or application like an rApp or xApp acting as an OAuth client.
- Authorization server: The server issuing access tokens to the O-RAN client after successfully authenticating the resource owner and obtaining authorization.
- Resource owner: “An entity capable of granting access to a protected resource. When the resource owner is a person, it is referred to as an end-user.” ([i.5], clause 1.1)
- Resource server: “The server hosting the protected resources, capable of accepting and responding to protected resource requests using access tokens.” ([i.5], clause 1.1)

## 9.2 Key Issues

## 9.2.1          Key Issue #1: Registration of O-RAN Architecture Elements in OAuth Authorization Server

#### 9.2.1.1         Key issue detail

This key issue addresses the security threats during the registration of O-RAN client (e.g., xApp, rApp) in the

authorization server.

#### 9.2.1.2         Security threats

The threats related to the above key issue are T-OAuth-G-05, T-OAuth-G-06, T-OAuth-G-12 as defined in

clause 6.1.

## 9.2.2          Key Issue #2: Provisioning of Client ID and secrets to O-RAN Architecture Elements

#### 9.2.2.1         Key issue detail

This key issue addresses the security threats while provisioning the client ID and secerets for O-RAN client

(e.g., xApp, rApp).

#### 9.2.2.2         Security threats

The threats related to the above key issue are T-OAuth-G-01, T-OAuth-G-03, T-OAuth-G-04, T-OAuth-G-05,

T-OAuth-G-09, T-OAuth-G-18, T-OAuth-G-19, T-OAuth-G-20, T-OAuth-G-21, T-OAuth-AS-10 as defined

in clause 6.1 and clause 6.2.

## 9.2.3          Key Issue #3: Provisioning of Authorization Grants for O-RAN Architecture Elements

#### 9.2.3.1         Key issue detail

This key issue addresses the security threats while provisioning the authorization grants for O-RAN client

(e.g., xApp, rApp).

#### 9.2.3.2         Security threats

The threats related to the above key issue are T-OAuth-G-08, T-OAuth-G-10, T-OAuth-G-11, T-OAuth-G-13

as defined in clause 6.1.

## 9.2.4          Key Issue #4: Revocation of Client ID and secrets for O-RAN Architecture Elements

#### 9.2.4.1         Key issue detail

This key issue addresses the security threats related to revocation of client ID and secrets for O-RAN client

(e.g., xApp, rApp).

#### 9.2.4.2         Security threats

The threats related to the above key issue are T-OAuth-G-02, T-OAuth-G-14, T-OAuth-G-15, T-OAuth-G-17,

T-OAuth-AS-11 as defined in clause 6.1 and clause 6.2.

## 9.2.5          Key Issue #5: Revocation of Authorization Grants for O-RAN Architecture Elements

#### 9.2.5.1         Key issue detail

This key issue addresses the security threats related to revocation of authorization grants for O-RAN client

(e.g., xApp, rApp).

#### 9.2.5.2         Security threats

The threats related to the above key issue are T-OAuth-G-10, T-OAuth-AS-04, T-OAuth-AS-07 as defined in

clause 6.1 and clause 6.2.

## 9.2.6          Key Issue #6: Secure transfer of client secrets to clients

#### 9.2.6.1         Key issue detail

The need is to identify,

How are the client secrets transferred to potential clients?

Whether the client secrets will be known at development time or runtime?

#### 9.2.6.2         Security threats

The threats related to the above key issue are T-OAuth-G-01, T-OAuth-G-05, T-OAuth-G-12,

T-OAuth-AS-01, T-OAuth-AS-03 as defined in clause 6.1 and clause 6.2.

## 9.2.7          Key Issue #7: Secure transit and storage of access and refresh tokens

#### 9.2.7.1         Key issue detail

It needs to be identified what possible mechanisms exists to ensure the integrity and confidentiality of access

and refresh tokens.

#### 9.2.7.2         Security threats

The threats related to the above key issue are T-OAuth-G-02, T-OAuth-G-03, T-OAuth-G-04, T-OAuth-G-20,

T-OAuth-G-15, T-OAuth-G-16, T-OAuth-G-18 as defined in clause 6.1.

## 9.2.8          Key Issue #8: Defining expiration times for access tokens and client secrets

9.2.8.1       Key issue detail

It needs to be identified if

- Access tokens need to be configured with the minimal expiration time and in what use cases
- Client secrets need to be revoked and refreshed regularly and if so at what intervals
9.2.8.2       Security threats

The threats related to the above key issue are T-OAuth-G-10, T-OAuth-AS-01, T-OAuth-AS-02, T-OAuth-AS-03 as defined in clause 6.1 and clause 6.2.

## 9.2.9          Key Issue #9: Consumers based on Client_IDs created with valid administration

#### 9.2.9.1         Key issue detail

It needs to be identified if

- Consumers who connect are only those validated by administrators
- Dynamic clients are possible or not
9.2.9.2        Security threats

The threat related to the above key issue is T-OAuth-G-11 as defined in clause 6.1.

## 9.2.10        Key Issue #10: Scope creation

#### 9.2.10.1       Key issue detail

It needs to be checked as to how scopes are designed, provisioned and enforced. Key topics are

- How scopes are designed by the resource servers including the clearance and access levels
- How scopes are transferred the authorization server
- How scopes are requested by the client
- How scopes are created in the authorization server

#### 9.2.10.2       Security threats

The threats related to the above key issue are T-OAuth-G-11, T-OAuth-G-13 as defined in clause 6.1.

## 9.2.11        Key Issue #11: Need to support RBAC  for the O-RAN resource servers

- The O-RAN resource servers need to be accessed by only those users who are authorized to carry out the
- specific task. Hence, we need a mechanism to design and map the O-RAN resource server to the users for
- access control.

#### 9.2.11.1        Key issue detail

It needs to be checked as to

- How to limit the access of resources to specified users (least privilege) and only for the intended task.
- How to manage access (assign users to permissions related to the resource servers) in a fast and efficient manner.
- How to retain a role only for the period of time required and no longer.

#### 9.2.11.2      Security threats

The threats related to limited access control are below.

- Malicious attacks with open access to the entire system of assets and data
- Insider threats
- Privilege stagnation over a period of time
Editor notes: Some of the threats id’s such as T-O-RAN-03,T-O-RAN-06,T-R1-01,T-R1-05,T-AppLCM-04,T-GEN-02,T-SMO-10 in clause 5.4 of the present document are mapped  and identified in the O-RAN Threat Modelling and Remediation Analysis document [i.20], need to be discussed further.

## 9.2.12        Key Issue #12: Need to support secure transmission

The key issues address the need to support for secure transmission of request and response between client and authorization server, between client and resource server.

The O-RAN related HTTP client (e.g.: R1, A1, O2) need to make a request to the authorization server and receive a response with respect to the access token. After that the access token has to be transferred from the client to the resource server.

#### 9.2.12.1        Key issue detail

It needs to be checked as to

- How the client will send request details including credentials related to client_id and client _secret to the authorization server
- How the client will receive the response from the authorization server
- How the client will send the access token to the resource server

#### 9.2.12.2       Security threats

The threats related to insecure transmission of request and response are T-OAuth-G-01, T-OAuth-G-03,

T-OAuth-G-05 as defined in clause 6.1.

## 9.3 Solutions

## 9.3.1      Solution #1: Registration of rApp

9.3.1.1          Background

This use case allows an rApp to register to the SMO as specified in R1GAP [i.13] [i.14]. The registration procedure is specified as part of Service Management and Exposure services in R1GAP [i.13] [i.14].

9.3.1.2          Solution Description

| Use Case Stage | Evolution / Specification | <<Uses>> Related use |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Goal | Register the rApp to the SME services Producer in SMO framework. |  |
| Actors and Roles | rApp in the role of Service Producer and/or Service Consumer   SME in the role of SME services Producer. |  |
| Assumptions | n/a |  |
| Preconditions | The rApp is instantiated. |  |
| Begins when | The rApp Management SMOS is ready for registration. |  |
| Step 1 (M) | The rApp Management SMOS sends a registration request to the SME in the SMO passing relevant information needed. |  |
| Step 1 (M) | The SME process the rApp registration request that may include.  -	performing authentication,  -	if rApp is authenticated, rAppId will be assigned to rApp. |  |
| Step 3 (M) | Response to the registration request along with the rAppId. |  |
| Ends when | The rApp is allocated with an rAppId. |  |
| Exceptions | n/a |  |
| Post Conditions | The rApp is registered with the SMO framework and an rAppId is allocated to the rApp. |  |
| Traceability | REQ-R1-SME-rAppreg-FUN1, REQ-R1-SME-rAppreg-FUN2. |  |

9.3.1.3	      Impacts on Existing O-RAN Architecture Elements and Interfaces

1)	Service Management and Exposure (SME) SMOS

The SME service is introduced in the [i.8] clause 3.1. While the SME was initially targeted for management and exposure of rApp services in the [i.8], its services are applicable to any entities within the SMO that fulfil the roles of Service Producer and/or Service Consumer.

In a decomposed service-based SMO architecture, the SME can be leveraged as a generic SMOS, handling service management and exposure for any SMOSs within SMO. The SME SMOS provides a set of common SMO capabilities that are needed for all SMO Services.

Several of the SME services are applicable to any SMOSs:

- rApp Management (SMOS)
The rApp management service handles management aspects specific to rApps such as:

9.3.1.4	        Solution Evaluation

9.3.1.5	        Potential Security Recommendations

## 9.3.2      Solution #2: Request access token for R1 services

9.3.2.1          Background

This use case allows an rApp to request an access token for access to R1 services as specified in R1GAP [i.13] [i.14]. The request access procedure is specified as part of Service Management and Exposure services in R1GAP [i.13] [i.14].

An rApp in the role of Service Consumer will be able to request the token and once the token is available, the rApp in the role of Service Consumer will be able access the R1 Services for which it has been authorized.

9.3.2.2	        Solution Description

| Use case stage | Evolution / specifiction | <<Uses>> Related use |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Goal | To enable rApp to request an access token for access to R1 services. |  |
| Actors and Roles | rApp in the role of Service Consumer that requests token for access to R1 services. SME as SMOS   in the role of SME services Producer support authorization service |  |
| Assumptions | rAppId and credentials have been provisioned. |  |
| Pre-conditions | R1 interface is established |  |
| Begins when | rApp has determined need for an access token to access R1 services and resources. |  |
| Step 1 (M) | rApp sends Access token request containing the rAppId and optionally token scope. | SPS [i.1], clause 4.7.2.3 |
| Step 2 (M) | SME authenticate the rApp and if the rApp token request is authorized, then an access token is generated. | SPS [i.1], clause 4.7.2.3 |
| Step 3 (M) | SME respond with access token. | SPS [i.1], clause 4.7.2.3 |
| Ends when | rApp has received an access token for access to R1 services. |  |
| Exceptions | n/a |  |
| Post-conditions | The rApp is authorized for accessing R1 services. |  |
| Traceability | REQ-R1-A-FUN1 |  |

9.3.2.3	        Impacts on Existing O-RAN Architecture Elements and Interfaces

1)	Service Management and Exposure (SME) SMOS

The SME service is introduced in the [i.8] clause 3.1. While the SME was initially targeted for management and exposure of rApp services in the [i.8], its services are applicable to any entities within the SMO that fulfil the roles of Service Producer and/or Service Consumer.

In a decomposed service-based SMO architecture, the SME can be leveraged as a generic SMOS, handling service management and exposure for any SMOSs within SMO. The SME SMOS provides a set of common SMO capabilities that are needed for all SMO Services. Several of the SME services are applicable to any SMOSs:

2) SME functions in the role of SME services Producer

- rApp
9.3.2.4	        Solution Evaluation

9.3.2.5	        Potential Security Recommendation

## 9.3.3      Solution #3: R1 services request with access token

9.3.3.1          Background

This use case discusses R1 service Producer to verify that rApp is authorized to access the R1 service as specified in R1GAP [i.13] [i.14]. The service request procedure is specified as part of Service Management and Exposure services in R1GAP [i.13][i.14].

9.3.3.2	        Solution Description

| Use case stage | Evolution / specification | <<Uses>> Related use |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Goal | To enable R1 service Producer to verify that rApp is authorized to access the R1 service. |  |
| Actors and Roles | rApp in the role of Service Consumer that requests access to an R1 service with access token. R1 service producer in the role of SME services Producer that supports the validation of the access token and provides access to the requested service. |  |
| Assumptions | rApp has requested and received an access token for the R1 service for which service access is requested. |  |
| Pre-conditions | R1 interface is established. |  |
| Begins when | rApp initiates a request for an R1 Service to R1 Service producer. |  |
| Step 1 (M) | rApp sends service request containing an access token to R1 service Producer |  |
| Step 2 (M) | R1 service Producer verifies integrity and claims in the access token. If successful, the requested service is executed. | SPS [i.1]                                                                          clause 4.7.2.4] |
| Step 3 &4 (M) | R1 service Producer sends response to the service request if it has valid token |  |
| Step 5 & 6 (O) | The verification of integrity and claims in step 3 was unsuccessful due to invalid or expired token, the requested service is not executed, and R1 service Producer sends a response with appropriate error code. |  |
| Ends when | R1 service Producer has responded to the service request. |  |
| Post-conditions | - |  |
| Traceability | REQ-R1-SME-A-FUN2 |  |

9.3.3.3	        Impacts on Existing O-RAN Architecture Elements and Interfaces

1)	Service Management and Exposure (SME) SMOS

The SME service is introduced in the [i.13] clause 3.1. While the SME was initially targeted for management and exposure of rApp services in the [i.13], its services are applicable to any entities within the SMO that fulfil the roles of Service Producer and/or Service Consumer.

In a decomposed service-based SMO architecture, the SME can be leveraged as a generic SMOS, handling service management and exposure for any SMOSs within SMO. The SME SMOS provides a set of common SMO capabilities that are needed for all SMO Services.

Several of the SME services are applicable to any SMOSs:

- SME in the role of SME services Producer
- rApp
- R1 Service Producer
9.3.3.4          Solution Evaluation

9.3.3.5          Potential Security Recommendations

## 9.3.4           Solution #4: Secure transmission for client, authorization server and resource server for R1, A1 and O2

9.3.4.1         Background

This solution elaborates on the possibilities to ensure that data for the below flows is secure transmission of request and response between client to authorization server, between client and resource server for R1, A1 and O2.,

- Between client and authorization server
- The client needs to send the credentials and the authorization request details which need to be secured during transmission.
- Between client and resource server
- The client needs to send the access token to the authentic resource server which needs to be secured during transmission.
9.3.4.2         Solution Description

| Use Case Stage | Evolution / Specification | <<Uses>> Related use |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Goal | Transfer the data from client to authorization server securely |  |
| Actors and Roles | Below are examples of HTTP clients rApp in the role of R1 Service Consumer   SMO towards near RT RIC in the role of A1 consumer O-RAN assets towards O-cloud in the role of O2 consumer |  |
| Assumptions | TLS is the underlying secure protocol on which the below is built upon. |  |
| Preconditions | The consumer is registered with valid client_id and client_secret The authorization server has a valid X.509 certificate The consumer has the trust anchor for the authorization server’s X.509 certificate |  |
| Begins when | The consumer needs to contact the authorization server to send an authorization request |  |
| Step 1 (M) | The client authenticates to the authorization server |  |
| Step 2 (M) | The client sends the request details to authorization server after successful authentication |  |
| Ends when | The consumer receives the access token from the authorization server |  |
| Exceptions | n/a |  |
| Post Conditions | The consumer is in possession of the access token securely |  |
| Traceability | n/a |  |

9.3.4.2.1       Authentication methods between client, authorization server and resource server

| OAuth token end point authentication method | Reference | Short description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Tls_client_auth | RFC 8705 [i.6] | Usage of certificates for both client and server authentication. Usage of certificate hash for certificate bound access tokens |
| Private_key_JWT (with JWE) | RFC 8705 [i.6] | Usage of certificates for both integrity and confidentiality protection (encryption) |
| Private_key_JWT | OpenID foundation [i.21] | Usage of certificates for integrity protection |
| Client_secret_JWT | OpenID foundation [i.21] | Usage of shared secret for example client_secret for integrity protection |
| Client_secret_basic | RFC 7591 [i.22] | Client_id and client_secret transmission in the header |
| Client_secret_post | RFC 7591 [i.22] | Client_id and client_secret transmission in the payload |
| Self_signed_tls_client_auth | RFC 8705 [i.6] | Usage of client side self signed certificates in mutual authentication |

9.3.4.3	        Impacts on Existing O-RAN Architecture Elements and Interfaces

9.3.4.4	        Solution Evaluation

| OAuth token end point authentication method | Evaluation |
| --- | --- |
| Tls_client_auth | Highly preferred |
| Private_key_JWT (with JWE) | Preferred |
| Private_key_JWT | Preferred |
| Client_secret_JWT | Preferred |
| Client_secret_basic | Preferred |
| Client_secret_post | Preferred |
| Self_signed_tls_client_auth | Least preferred |

9.3.4.5	        Potential Security Recommendations

## 9.3.5           Solution #5: Support for RBAC

9.3.5.1         Background

Role based access control is an important concept for the authorization mechanism in O-RAN to support either coarse grained or fine-grained access.

The protected resources expose various operations which can be protected by access rules are mapped to different roles in an operator setup. An operator should assign roles to users (human and non-human) using identity management workflows.

- This solution elaborates on the possibilities to
Explain the association between the users, roles and the access rules (permissions) as defined in [i.19] clause 7.

NOTE: the reference of the 3GPP specification in [i.19] can be considered as an example and customised for the O-RAN interfaces.

9.3.5.2          Solution Description

| Use Case Stage | Evolution / Specification | <<Uses>> Related use |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Goal | Design and deploy the role-based access model in an OAuth server for the O-RAN resources |  |
| Actors and Roles | Admin resource server – design of operations on resource server for access control Admin – Network administrator for access control  Authorization server |  |
| Assumptions | Resources require coarse and fine grained permissions (access rules) to be designed The solution considers the possibility of adding the permissions manually. There is a possibility that this could also be automated |  |
| Preconditions | n/a |  |
| Begins when | Resource server needs to support access control |  |
| Step 1 (M) | Design coarse grained and fine-grained permissions |  |
| Step 2(M) | Express the permissions of a resource server |  |
| Step 3(M) | Deploy permissions |  |
| Step 4(M) | Deploy roles |  |
| Step 5(M) | Deploy client_ID and its client_secret |  |
| Ends when | Administration of RBAC is completed and resolved in the OAuth server |  |
| Exceptions | n/a |  |
| Post Conditions | n/a |  |
| Traceability | n/a |  |

9.3.5.3	        Impacts on Existing O-RAN Architecture Elements and Interfaces

- The O-RAN interfaces should factor in the permissions which should be used in the context of scope in the OAuth flows.
- The keyword scope is used both in an OAuth access token as well as in the OpenAPI to define what a particular interface is allowed to do.
9.3.5.4	        Solution Evaluation

- Permissions have to be considered by all the O-RAN APIs,
- For the OpenAPIs this should be expressed as scopes,
- The semantics of the permissions which should be evaluated and validated by the resource server need to be defined.
9.3.5.5	         Potential Security Recommendations

## 9.3.6           Solution #6: Profile for client credentials grant type clients

9.3.6.1          Background

To ensure interoperability we propose the need for prescriptive profiles for a client which need to carry out access control when communicating from one machine to another machine which is the resource server.

This solution considers the below aspects for the profile,

- Resource server which exposes the APIs.
- Authorization server client (confidential client). Example of confidential client is A1 client interacting with the Near RT RIC platform.
- Security options with certificate binding [i.6].
9.3.6.2          Solution Description

| Use Case Stage | Evolution / Specification | <<Uses>> Related use |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Goal | Derive an OAuth related profile for the machine-to-machine clients |  |
| Actors and Roles | Resource server – provider of the APIs for the client to access Authorization server – an OAuth server Confidential client – a noninteractive client accessing an API |  |
| Assumptions | The solution considers the possibility of automation The clients refer to machines and not human users In registration of client dynamically the initial access to the OAuth server is with the initial access token |  |
| Preconditions | Design of scopes which relates to 4.7.3.2.2. in [i.1] Administration of RBAC (solution related to RBAC) Publish endpoint locations and authorization server capabilities [i.23], clause 2 Client X.509 certificate enrolment |  |
| Begins when | Pre-conditions are met |  |
| Step 1 (M) | Discover the capabilities of authorization server [i.23], clause 2 |  |
| Step 2(M) | Register client dynamically [i.22], clause 3.1 |  |
| Step 3(M) | Client credentials request (access token lifetime with 'expires_in' parameter) [i.5], clause 4.2.2 |  |
| Step 4(M) | Return token [IETF RFC 6750] with certificate binding [i.6], clause 3 |  |
| Step 5(M) | API invocation on resource server (access token with certificate binding) |  |
| Ends when | API is accessed with the correct privileges |  |
| Exceptions | n/a |  |
| Post Conditions | n/a |  |
| Traceability | n/a |  |

NOTE: The design of scopes which is mentioned in the precondition needs further study.

9.3.6.3	        Impacts on Existing O-RAN Architecture Elements and Interfaces

Impacts to be considered with respect to the following:

- Resource servers
O-RAN related APIs to define the scopes

- Authorization server
The OAuth servers should support the following capabilities

Token end points support

Introspection end point

Tokens with reference to access rules

Access token lifetime

Re-authenticate or refresh tokens

Solution options:

RBAC deployment

- Client (confidential client)
O-RAN related client credentials grant type clients (e.g., xApps) should be capable making a client credential grant request, processing of response and forwarding the access token in an API call.

- Security options
O-RAN related http interfaces should support mTLS with certificate binding in [i.6].

9.3.6.4	        Solution Evaluation

- To accomplish the access control securely for the O-RAN related a machine-to-machine clients a combination of the existing RFCs have to be put together in order to maximise security and also ensure simplicity.
9.3.6.5	        Potential Security Recommendations

9.3.7           Solution #7: Resolution of authorization decision between authorization server and resource server

9.3.7.1          Background

In typical operator deployments, RBAC requires that administration and execution of roles (coarse-grained authorization) and permissions (fine-grained authorization) are distributed between the authorization server and resource servers.

Considering the size of a token and that various APIs have different levels of authorization, the permissions are part of the resource server and not part of the confidential client request.

The authorization servers are typically centralized overseeing the administration and validation decision of coarse-grained authorization related roles which are part of the confidential client request. The examples of roles could be considered from Appendix I related to the function set group in [i.24].

The resource servers are typically distributed overseeing the roles to permission mapping administration and validation decision of fine-grained authorization.

Permissions are considered to be the operation (usually CRUD) on a particular object in the resource server as in [i.19] clause 7.

In the solution below we consider examples of roles as rol1, rol2, rol3, etc. to be mapped to permissions per1, per2, per3, etc. for ease of understanding.

NOTE 1:  The above discussion related to coarse-grained authorization and fine-grained authorization which is mentioned in the 9.3.7 needs further study.

NOTE 2:  The above discussion related to roles in [i.24] which is mentioned in the 9.3.7.1 and 9.3.7.3 needs further study.

- This solution elaborates on the possibilities to
- Split the administration of the roles and permissions between the authorization server and resource server.
- Validate the decision of the roles and permissions between the authorization server and resource server.
9.3.7.2          Solution Description

| Use Case Stage | Evolution / Specification | <<Uses>> Related use |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Goal | Resolution of authorization related validation decision to achieve the principle of least privilege |  |
| Actors and Roles | Confidential client – making an API call on a resource server with the assigned role Authorization server – Validating the scope and the roles of client  Resource server – Validating the fine-grained authorization after mapping them to the roles received in access token |  |
| Assumptions | Coarse-grained authorization roles are administered in the Authorization server (e.g.: rol1, rol2, rol3, etc) Fine-grained authorization is administered in the resource server (e.g.: per1, per2, per3, etc.). permission defines the granular object in the resource server and operation (CRUD) that can be executed on it Resource server to verify the token for every confidential client during the service initiation |  |
| Preconditions | n/a |  |
| Begins when | Confidential client makes a token request |  |
| Step 1 (M) | Send a token request with requested roles (e.g.: rol1, rol2, rol3) included in the 'scope' attribute |  |
| Step 2(M) | Validate the roles related to the ClientID |  |
| Step 3(M) | Return JWT access token with authorized roles (e.g.: rol1) included in the 'roles' attribute |  |
| Step 4(M) | API call (JWT access token with role (e.g.: rol1)) |  |
| Step 5(M) | Check mapping of the role to permission (e.g.: rol1 -> per1) |  |
| Step 6(M) | Validate the permission of the fine-grained authorization operation in the API call |  |
| Ends when | Roles and permissions are resolved by respective entity and API call is executed with required authorization resolution |  |
| Exceptions | n/a |  |
| Post Conditions | n/a |  |
| Traceability | n/a |  |

9.3.7.3	        Impacts on Existing O-RAN Architecture Elements and Interfaces

- O-RAN related confidential clients request access token with the roles as part of the claim. The authorization server administers and validates the roles to client token requests. Examples of roles are defined in function set groups in Appendix I for the network management layer in [i.24].
- The O-RAN interfaces (APIs) may factor in the validation of permissions which are mapped to the roles the access token.
9.3.7.4	        Solution Evaluation

- Roles have to be resolved and validated by the authorization server.
- Roles to permission mapping may be administered and validated in the resource server for the various API calls.
9.3.7.5	        Potential Security Recommendations

# 10 Study and recommendation an O-RAN Authorization Server architecture

Editor’s note: This section will do a study and recommendation on an authorization server architecture to overlay on the O-RAN architecture.

# 11 Conclusion

Editor’s note : This clause will provide the summary for the TR and mapping tables the key issues and solutions and it will submit the recommendations to WG1 for O-RAN authorization server.


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG11.TR.Open-FH-Security.0-R004-v05.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG11.TR.Open-FH-Security.0-R004-v05.00"
---


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG11.TR.PQC-Security.0-R004-v01.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG11.TR.PQC-Security.0-R004-v01.00 O-RAN Work Group 11 (Security work group)   Study on Post-Quantum Cryptography"
---


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG11.TR.SCM.0-R004-v01.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG11.TR.SCM.0-R004-v01.00 O-RAN Work Group 11 (Security work group)   Study on Security Configuration Management"
---

# SCM Background

## Considerations

This document makes the following considerations:

- This TR performs a detailed study of the Security Configuration Management for O1 interface and Open Fronthaul M-plane.
- The existing O-RAN specifications such as  O-RAN.WG10.Information Model and Data Models [i.7], O-RAN.WG10.O1NRM.1 [i.8], O-RAN.WG4.MP-YANGs [i5], O-RAN.WG4.CTI-TMP-YANG [i.9], O-RAN.WG5.O-DU-O1.1 [i.10], O-RAN.WG5.O-CU-O1.0 [i.11] discuss the YANG models which are considered as the baseline specifications for the Security Configuration Management TR to identify and develop the security YANG models for O-RAN framework fulfilling the security requirements specified in [i.2].
- The Security YANG model considers the rules and guideline as specified in O-RAN specifications [i.5] [i.7] [i.8] [i.9] [i.10] [i.11].
- The pyang YANG validator tool is considered for evaluating the security YANG model as recommended in [i.12].
- The recommended security YANG models for O1 interface provided in this report to be shared with the impacted O-RAN Alliance working group, such as WG4 and WG10.

# Study and identify the security gaps related to SCM

Editor’s note: This clause will study and identify the security gaps related to security configuration management like NACM, certificate and LDAP aligning with SRCS and SPS.

## Assets

This document makes the following considerations:

## 5.1.1     O-RAN Architecture Elements

- ASSET-C-01:	Logical module: Service Management and Orchestration (SMO)
- ASSET-C-02:	Near-RT RIC software
- ASSET-C-03:	O-CU-CP software
- ASSET-C-04:	O-CU-UP software
- ASSET-C-05:	O-DU software
- ASSET-C-06:	O-RU software
- ASSET-C-07: O-eNB
- ASSET-C-31: Shared O-RU

## 5.1.2     O-RAN interfaces

- ASSET-C-22: O1 interface, including protocol stack
- ASSET-C-24: Open FH M-plane, including protocol stack

## Security Controls

The following security controls should be considered for the security gap analysis:

- Control-1: Certificate Management
- Control-2: TLS
- Control-3: mTLS
- Control-4: SSH
- Control-5: NACM with NETCONF
- Control-6: MACsec
- Control-7: IPsec
- Control-8: 802.1X

## Input recommendations

The following are considered for security configuration management gap analysis:

- Certificate configuration
- NETCONF access control, NACM configuration
- LDAP configuration

## Threat template

| Threat ID | O-RAN threat ID |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | [Threat Title will include suitable reference of 3GPP/IETF/ETSI] |
| Threat description | Introduction about the threat |
| Threat type | Spoofing Tampering Repudiation Information disclosure Denial of Service Elevation of Privilege |
| Vulnerability | TBD |
| Impact type | Authenticity Integrity Non-repudiation Confidentiality Availability Authorization |
| Affected Assets | Asset identification |

## SCM Threats analysis

## 5.5.1     Certificate related threats

| Threat ID | T-SCM-Cert-01 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Configuration of incorrect Certificate parameter |
| Threat description | Certificate parameters may be misconfigured intentionally or unintentionally which may lead to the CA issuing a rogue certificate or the wrong certificate |
| Threat type | Denial of Service, Tampering |
| Vulnerability | It may lead to incorrect certificate issued by the CA issuer |
| Impact type | Availability |
| Affected Asset | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-03, ASSET-C-04, ASSET-C-05,	ASSET-C-06, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-31 |

| Threat ID | T-SCM-Cert-02 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Tampering of Certificate parameter |
| Threat description | If the certificate parameters are tampered or comprised by the malicious actor, which may lead to initiation of valid certificate request to CA by the attacker |
| Threat type | Denial of Service, Tampering |
| Vulnerability | Attacker may claim as trusted entity |
| Impact type | Confidentiality Authenticity Availability |
| Affected Asset | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-03, ASSET-C-04, ASSET-C-05,	ASSET-C-06, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-31 |

## 5.5.2      NACM related threats

Void

## 5.5.3      LDAP related threats

Void

# Study and recommendation related to SCM

Editor’s note: This clause will study and recommend the security requirements and security usecases related to security configuration management like NACM, Certificate and LDAP aligning with SRCS and SPS.

Void

# Conclusion

Editor’s note : This clause will provide the summary for the SCM TR.

Void


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG11.TR.SMO-Security-Analysis.0-R004-v07.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG11.TR.SMO-Security-Analysis.0-R004-v07.00"
---

# SMO Assets

## Architecture

There are security risks with the SMO due to its internal functions and internal and external interfaces. Securing the SMO is imperative because it is responsible for all service management and orchestration. A security vulnerability within the SMO could be exploited to serve as an entry point for attacks against O-RAN components and lateral movement across O-RAN.

Figure 4.1-1 and Figure 4.1-2 show the service-based architectural view of the SMO including internal and external interfaces and the Non-RT-RIC.  The Attack Surface of the SMO includes Functions, Applications, Interfaces, and Information, which each have assets that should be protected. Figure 4.1-3 is the SMO security architecture, based upon Figures 4.1-1 and 4.1-2.  Figure 4.1-4 shows the evolution of the SMO to a Service-Based Architecture. and Figure 4.1-5 is the Decoupled SMO security architecture with support for RAN-Core Data Sharing.  The following SMO assets need to be protected:

- SMO Framework
- SMO Functions (SMOF)
- Non-RT RIC
- SMO Services (SMOS)
- Service Management and Exposure (SME)
- Data Management and Exposure (DME)
- Topology Exposure and Inventory Management (TE&IM)
- rApp Management
- R1 Services
- Network Function Orchestrator (NFO)
- Federated O-Cloud Orchestration and Management (FOCOM)
- RAN NF Fault Management (FM)
- RAN NF Configuration Management (CM)
- RAN NF Performance Management (PM)
- A1 Enrichment Information Management
- A1 Policy Management
- SW Package Onboarding
- Service Orchestration
- Service Assurance
- RAN Analytics
- AI/ML Workflow
- SMOS Communication
- O1, O2, R1 and A1 interfaces
- Open Fronthaul M-Plane
- External interfaces
- User Management interfaces
- PKI
- Logging
- Data
- AI/ML models, algorithms, and methods
Figure 4.1-2 shows the Non-RT RIC architectural view with its SMO integration.

## Functions

- The following SMO functions should be considered in a risk analysis:
- ASSET-C-01: SMO Framework
- ASSET-C-11: Non-RT RIC
- ASSET-C-18: SMO Functions
- Non-RT Functions, including:
- ASSET-C-12: AI/ML Functions
- ASSET-C-20: A1 Functions

## Applications

- The following SMO applications should be considered in a risk analysis:
ASSET-C-10: rApps

## Interfaces

- The following SMO interfaces should be considered in a risk analysis:
- ASSET-C-14: A1
- ASSET-C-16: R1
- ASSET-C-26: External Interfaces
- ASSET-C-22: O1
- ASSET-C-23: O2
- ASSET-C-24: OFH M-Plane
- ASSET-C-62: SMOS Communication

## Information

- The following SMO information and data should be considered in a risk analysis:
O1 Data

ASSET-D-03: O1 Critical management plane data

ASSET-D-09: O1 informational data

O2 Data

ASSET-D-12: O2-IMS and O2-DMS data

ASSET-D-13: O2 Telemetry data

ASSET-D-14: O2 cloud provisioning data

Secret Stores

ASSET-D-16: X.509 certificates

ASSET-D-17: Private keys

ASSET-D-20: Administrator credentials (passwords and tokens)

AI/ML Data

ASSET-D-25: Training or test data: data sets collected externally or internally from the Near-RT RIC, O-CU and O-DU and passed to the ML training hosts in a ML system.

ASSET-D-26: The trained ML model which includes intellectual property, numerous configured hyperparameters and millions of learned parameters.

ASSET-D-27: The ML prediction results built into the model (e.g. expected outcomes)

ASSET-D-28: The behavior of the ML system including tasks for data collection, data wrangling, pipeline management, model retraining, and model deployment.

PII

ASSET-D-30: O-RAN specific UE IDs

Event logs

ASSET-D-29: Security event log files generated by O-RAN components

## SMO Services (SMOS)

- The following SMO Services should be considered in a risk analysis:
- ASSET-C-44: Service Management and Exposure (SME)
- ASSET-C-45: Data Management and Exposure (DME)
- ASSET-C-46: Topology Exposure and Inventory Management (TE&IM)
- ASSET-C-47: rApp Management
- ASSET-C-48: R1 Services
- ASSET-C-49: Network Function Orchestrator (NFO)
- ASSET-C-50: Federated O-Cloud Orchestration and Management (FOCOM)
- ASSET-C-51: RAN NF Fault Management (FM)
- ASSET-C-52: RAN NF Configuration Management (CM)
- ASSET-C-53: RAN NF Performance Management (PM)
- ASSET-C-54: A1 Enrichment Information Management
- ASSET-C-55: A1 Policy Management
- ASSET-C-57: SW Package Onboarding
- ASSET-C-58: Service Orchestration
- ASSET-C-59: Service Assurance
- ASSET-C-60: RAN Analytics
- ASSET-C-61: AI/ML Workflow

# Threats

## Threat Model

For identifying threats, we are using STRIDE:

- S - Spoofing identity. A user, application or program can masquerade as another to gain advantages not typically allowed for that user, application, or program.
- T - Tampering with data. This involves the malicious modification of data, including making unauthorized changes to a database and alteration of data as it flows between computers.
- R - Repudiation. A user or program refuses the authenticity of a good or reasonable command or action.
- I - Information disclosure. This involves the exposure of information to individuals with unauthorized access to it. For example, users gain the ability to read a file that they normally would not have been granted access to, or an intruder can read data in transit between computers.
- D - Denial of service. These attacks deny service to valid users, such as making a website unavailable or unusable by flooding it with illegitimate requests to keep legitimate users without access.
- E - Elevation of privileges. An unauthorized user gains privileged rights to access previously no granted to compromise or destroy the system, such as a change in membership.

| Threat types | Impact types |
| --- | --- |
| Spoofing | Authenticity |
| Tampering | Integrity |
| Repudiation | Non-repudiation |
| Information disclosure | Confidentiality |
| Denial of Service | Availability |
| Elevation of Privilege | Authorization |

## Threat Template

Template to present the threat characteristics:

| Threat ID |  |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title |  |
| Threat description |  |
| Threat type | Spoofing Tampering Repudiation Information disclosure Denial of Service Elevation of Privilege |
| Vulnerabilities |  |
| Impact type | Authenticity Integrity Non-repudiation Confidentiality Availability Authorization |
| Affected Assets |  |

## Potential Threats and Exploits

A threat analysis is facilitated by an understanding of potential threats, as identified by the Cloud Security Alliance (CSA) and the Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP).

The OWASP Top 10 Web Application Security Risks [i.12] was updated in 2021 to include the following:

A01:2021 Broken Access Control

A02:2021 Cryptographic Failure

A03:2021 Injection (including Cross-Site Scripting)

A04:2021 Insecure Design

A05:2021 Security Misconfiguration

A06:2021 Vulnerable and Outdated Components

A07:2021 Identification and Authentication Failures

A08:2021 Software and Data Integrity Failures (including Insecure Deserialization)

A09:2021 Security Logging and Monitoring Failures

A10:2021 Server-Side Request Forgery

The CSA Top Threats to Cloud in 2019 was labelled the “Egregious Eleven” [i.13], as listed below:

Data Breaches

Misconfiguration and Inadequate Change Control

Lack of Cloud Security Architecture and Strategy

Insufficient Identity, Credential, Access, and Key Management

Account Hijacking

Insider Threat

Insecure Interfaces and APIs

Weak Control plane

Metastructure and Applistructure Failures

Limited Cloud Usage Visibility

Abuse and Nefarious Uses of Cloud Services

The CSA updated its list of top threats to cloud in 2022 and renamed it the “Pandemic Eleven” [i.14], as listed below:

1. Insufficient Identity, Credential, Access and Key Management, Privileged Accounts

2. Insecure Interfaces and APIs

3. Misconfiguration and Inadequate Change Control

4. Lack of Cloud Security Architecture and Strategy

5. Insecure Software Development

6. Unsecure Third-Party Resources

7. System Vulnerabilities

8. Accidental Cloud Data Disclosure

9. Misconfiguration and Exploitation of Serverless and Container Workloads

10. Organized Crime, Hackers & APT

11. Cloud Storage Data Exfiltration

## SMO Threats

The threats listed in clause 5.3 relevant to O-RAN and SMO are considered in the SMO threat analysis.  The threats to SMO shown in Table 5.4.1 have been identified and are analyzed in clause 6 – Threat Analysis.

Table 5.4.1 – SMO Threats Summary

| Threat-Id | Threat Description (Brief) |
| --- | --- |
| General SMO Threats |  |
| T-SMO-01 | External attacker exploits authentication weakness on SMO |
| T-SMO-02 | External attacker exploits authorization weakness on SMO |
| T-SMO-03 | External Overload DoS attack targeted at SMO |
| T-SMO-04 | Internal attacker exploits authentication weakness on a SMO function or SMO service |
| T-SMO-05 | Internal attacker exploits authorization weakness on SMO |
| T-SMO-06 | Internal Overload DoS attack targeted at SMO functions or SMO services |
| T-SMO-07 | Internal DoS attack disables internal SMO function(s), SMO service(s), or SMO process(es) |
| T-SMO-08 | Attacker exploits insecure API to gain access to SMO |
| T-SMO-09 | Sensitive data in motion is exposed to an internal attacker |
| T-SMO-10 | Sensitive data at rest is exposed to an internal attacker |
| T-SMO-11 | AI/ML poisoning by internal attacker |
| T-SMO-12 | AI/ML exposure on external entity |
| T-SMO-13 | Malicious actor views local logs |
| T-SMO-14 | Malicious actor modifies local log entries |
| T-SMO-15 | Malicious actor deletes local logs |
| T-SMO-16 | Malicious actor intercepts exports of local logs |
| T-SMO-17 | Malicious external actor gains unauthorized access to logs |
| T-SMO-18 | Malicious internal actor gains authorized access to logs |
| Threats at O2 interface |  |
| T-SMO-19 | Internal attacker exploits O2 interface to view data in transit between SMO and O-Cloud |
| T-SMO-20 | Internal attacker exploits O2 interface to modify data in transit between SMO and O-Cloud |
| T-SMO-21 | Internal attacker uses O2 interface via SMO to exploit API vulnerability to gain access to O-Cloud infrastructure |
| T-SMO-22 | Internal attacker floods O2 interface via SMO to cause DDoS on O-Cloud infrastructure |
| T-SMO-23 | External attacker uses O2 interface via O-Cloud to exploit API vulnerability to gain access to SMO |
| T-SMO-24 | External attacker floods O2 interface via O-Cloud to cause DDoS on SMO |
| T-SMO-25 | External attacker uses O2 interface via O-Cloud to gain authorized access to sensitive data-at-rest at the SMO |
| Threats at External interfaces |  |
| T-SMO-26 | External attacker exploits External interface to view data in transit between SMO and external service |
| T-SMO-27 | External attacker exploits External interface to modify data in transit between SMO and external service |
| T-SMO-28 | External attacker uses External interface to exploit API vulnerability to gain access to SMO |
| T-SMO-29 | External attacker floods External interface to cause DDoS at SMO |
| T-SMO-30 | External attacker uses External interface to gain access to sensitive data-at-rest at the SMO |
| T-SMO-31 | External attacker poisons External AI/ML data to corrupt SMO |
| T-SMO-32 | External attacker poisons External Enrichment Information data sources to corrupt SMO |
| T-SMO-33 | rApp floods SME |
| T-SMO-34 | External Consumer floods SME |
| T-SMO-35 | SMOS flood SME |
| T-SMO-36 | rApp floods DME |
| T-SMO-37 | External Consumer floods DME |
| T-SMO-38 | SMOS flood DME |

# Threat Analysis

SMO threats are identified in the tables below. External and internal threats are from the perspective of the SMO.  External Threats are external to the SMO and Internal Threats are internal the SMO. This section provides threat analysis of four types of SMO threats:

- General SMO Threats
- Threats at O2 interface
- Threats at External interfaces
- Threats targeting SME
- Threats targeting DME

## General SMO Threats

| Threat ID | T-SMO-01 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | External attacker exploits authentication weakness on SMO |
| Threat description | An external attacker can exploit the improper/missing authentication weakness on SMO functions or SMO services. If the authentication of O-RAN subjects on A1, O1, O2, and External interfaces on SMO is not supported or not properly implemented, those interfaces without proper credentials could be exploited to gain access to the SMO. |
| Threat type | Spoofing |
| Impact type | Authenticity |
| Affected Asset | SMO |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-02 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | External attacker exploits authorization weakness on SMO |
| Threat description | An external attacker can exploit the improper/missing authorization weakness on SMO functions or SMO services.  A malicious external entity on A1, O1, O2, and External interfaces without authorization or with an incorrect access token may invoke the SMO functions or SMO services. The data at rest related to that function will be leaked to the attacker. In addition, an attacker can be able to perform certain actions, e.g.  disclose O-RAN sensitive information or alter O-RAN components. |
| Threat type | Elevation of Privilege, Information Disclosure |
| Impact type | Authorization. Confidentiality |
| Affected Asset | SMO |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-03 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | External Overload DoS attack targeted at SMO |
| Threat description | Overload situation could appear in the case of DoS attack or increased traffic on externally facing interfaces. Inability to mitigate traffic volumetric attacks on an external interface affects availability of SMO data and functions or SMO services. |
| Threat type | Denial of Service |
| Impact type | Availability |
| Affected Asset | SMO |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-04 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Internal attacker exploits authentication weakness on a SMO function or SMO service |
| Threat description | An internal attacker can exploit the improper/missing authentication weakness on SMO functions or SMO services.  If the authentication of internal interfaces on SMO is not supported or not properly implemented, those interfaces without credentials could exploited to gain access to the SMO. |
| Threat type | Spoofing |
| Impact type | Authenticity |
| Affected Asset | SMO |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-05 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Internal attacker exploits authorization weakness on SMO |
| Threat description | An internal attacker can exploit the improper/missing authorization weakness on SMO functions or SMO services.  Malicious internal entities without authorization or with an incorrect access token may invoke the SMO functions or SMO services. The data at rest related to these functions will be leaked to the attacker. In addition, an attacker can be able to perform certain actions, e.g.  disclose O-RAN sensitive information or alter O-RAN components. |
| Threat type | Elevation of Privilege, Information Disclosure |
| Impact type | Authorization |
| Affected Asset | SMO |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-06 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Internal Overload DoS attack targeted at SMO functions or SMO services |
| Threat description | Overload situation could appear in the case of DoS attack or increased traffic on internal SMO interfaces. Inability to mitigate traffic volumetric attacks on an external interface affects availability of SMO data and functions. |
| Threat type | Denial of Service |
| Impact type | Availability |
| Affected Asset | SMO |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-07 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Internal DoS attack disables internal SMO function(s), SMO (service(s), or SMO process(es) |
| Threat description | Internal malicious actor exploits a vulnerability or escalates privilege to execute a DoS attack by disabling one or more SMO processes, services, or functions. Inability to detect and report such events affects availability of SMO functions or SMO services. |
| Threat type | Denial of Service, Escalation of Privilege |
| Impact type | Availability |
| Affected Asset | SMO |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-08 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Attacker exploits insecure API to gain access to SMO |
| Threat description | An insecure API may allow access to a system for an attacker to conduct remote code execution or an advanced persistent threat |
| Threat type | Tampering, Information Disclosure, Escalation of Privilege |
| Impact type | Integrity, Confidentiality, Authorization |
| Affected Asset | SMO |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-09 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Sensitive data in motion is exposed to an internal attacker |
| Threat description | Unprotected data transferred between internal SMO functions or SMO Services is disclosed to an internal threat actor |
| Threat type | Information Disclosure |
| Impact type | Confidentiality |
| Affected Asset | SMO |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-10 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Sensitive data at rest is exposed to an internal attacker |
| Threat description | Unprotected data stored on the SMO is disclosed to an internal threat actor that has gain authorized access through privilege escalation |
| Threat type | Information Disclosure |
| Impact type | Confidentiality |
| Affected Asset | SMO |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-11 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | AI/ML poisoning by internal attacker |
| Threat description | Internal attacker gains authorized access exploited to poison AI/ML training data or the AI/ML models stored in the SMO to influence insights. |
| Threat type | Tampering |
| Impact type | Integrity |
| Affected Asset | SMO |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-12 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | AI/ML exposure on external entity |
| Threat description | An external attacker can gain access to external entities to view or modify sensitive data AI/ML data, or models, transferred between the external function and SMO via external interfaces (e.g., EI, Human-Machine, A1, O1) |
| Threat type | Information disclosure, Tampering |
| Impact type | Confidentiality, Integrity |
| Affected Asset | SMO |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-13 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Malicious actor views local logs |
| Threat description | Malicious actor accesses locally stored logs in the SMO to perform reconnaissance to collect sensitive or private information. |
| Threat type | Information disclosure |
| Impact type | Confidentiality |
| Affected Asset | SMO |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-14 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Malicious actor modifies local log entries |
| Threat description | Malicious actor accesses locally stored logs in the SMO to modify entries to hide presence or cause confusion. |
| Threat type | Tampering |
| Impact type | Integrity |
| Affected Asset | SMO |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-15 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Malicious actor deletes local log entries |
| Threat description | Malicious actor accesses locally stored logs in the SMO to delete entries to hide presence or cause confusion. |
| Threat type | Tampering |
| Impact type | Integrity |
| Affected Asset | SMO |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-16 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Malicious actor intercepts exports of local logs |
| Threat description | Malicious actor gains access to an external interface to intercept data in motion as logs are transferred from the SMO to a remote server/external entity. |
| Threat type | Information disclosure |
| Impact type | Confidentiality |
| Affected Asset | SMO |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-17 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Malicious external actor gains unauthorized access to logs |
| Threat description | Malicious external actor gains unauthorized access to stored logs to view, modify, and delete |
| Threat type | Elevation of Privilege |
| Impact type | Confidentiality |
| Affected Asset | SMO |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-18 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Malicious internal actor gains authorized access to logs |
| Threat description | Malicious internal actor gains authorized access to stored logs to view, modify, and delete. |
| Threat type | Elevation of Privilege |
| Impact type | Authorization |
| Affected Asset | SMO |

## 6.2 Threats at O2 interface

| Threat ID | T-SMO-19 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Internal attacker exploits O2 interface to view data in transit between SMO and O-Cloud |
| Threat description | If the O2 interface is not properly confidentiality protected, an internal attacker can perform a man-in-the-middle attack to view data in transit. |
| Threat type | Information disclosure |
| Impact type | Confidentiality |
| Affected Asset | O2 interface |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-20 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Internal attacker exploits O2 interface to modify data in transit between SMO and O-Cloud |
| Threat description | If the O2 interface is not properly integrity protected, an internal attacker can perform a man-in-the-middle attack to modify data in transit. |
| Threat type | Tampering |
| Impact type | Integrity |
| Affected Asset | O2 interface |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-21 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Internal attacker uses O2 interface via SMO to exploit API vulnerability to gain access to O-Cloud infrastructure |
| Threat description | If the O2 interface uses an API with a known vulnerability that is not properly protected or patched, an attacker can exploit it to gain access to the O-Cloud infrastructure from the SMO. |
| Threat type | Spoofing |
| Impact type | Authenticity |
| Affected Asset | O-Cloud |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-22 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Internal attacker floods O2 interface via SMO to cause DDoS on O-Cloud infrastructure |
| Threat description | If the O2 interface is not protected, an internal attacker on the SMO can flood the O2 interface to overload the O-Cloud.  This can prevent legitimate messages from reaching the O-Cloud or cause heavy processing at the O-Cloud, resulting in performance degradation. |
| Threat type | Denial of Service |
| Impact type | Availability |
| Affected Asset | O-Cloud |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-23 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | External attacker uses O2 interface via O-Cloud to exploit API vulnerability to gain access to SMO |
| Threat description | If the O2 interface uses an API with a known vulnerability that is not properly protected or patched, an attacker can exploit it to gain access to the SMO from the O-Cloud infrastructure. |
| Threat type | Spoofing |
| Impact type | Authenticity |
| Affected Asset | SMO |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-24 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | External attacker floods O2 interface via O-Cloud to cause DDoS on SMO |
| Threat description | If the O2 interface is not protected, an external attacker in the O-Cloud can flood the O2 interface to overload the SMO.  This can prevent legitimate messages from reaching the SMO or cause heavy processing at the SMO, resulting in performance degradation or outage of the SMO. |
| Threat type | Denial of Service |
| Impact type | Availability |
| Affected Asset | SMO |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-25 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | External attacker uses O2 interface via O-Cloud to gain authorized access to sensitive data-at-rest at the SMO |
| Threat description | If the SMO is not protected, an external attacker at the O-Cloud can use the O2 interface to gain authorized access to the SMO to view data-at-rest. |
| Threat type | Elevation of Privilege |
| Impact type | Authorization |
| Affected Asset | SMO |

## 6.3 Threats at External interfaces

| Threat ID | T-SMO-26 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | External attacker exploits External interface to view data in transit between SMO and external service |
| Threat description | If an External interface is not properly confidentiality protected, an external attacker can perform a man-in-the-middle attack to view data in transit. |
| Threat type | Information disclosure |
| Impact type | Confidentiality |
| Affected Asset | External interface |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-27 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | External attacker exploits External interface to modify data in transit between SMO and external service |
| Threat description | If an External interface is not properly integrity protected, an external attacker can perform a man-in-the-middle attack to modify data in transit. |
| Threat type | Tampering |
| Impact type | Integrity |
| Affected Asset | External interface |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-28 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | External attacker uses External interface to exploit API vulnerability to gain access to SMO |
| Threat description | If an External interface uses an API with a known vulnerability that is not properly protected or patched, an attacker can exploit it to gain access to the SMO. |
| Threat type | Spoofing |
| Impact type | Authenticity |
| Affected Asset | SMO |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-29 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | External attacker floods External interface to cause DDoS at SMO |
| Threat description | If the External interface is not protected, an external attacker can flood an External interface to overload the SMO.  This can prevent legitimate messages and data from reaching the SMO or cause heavy processing at the SMO, resulting in performance degradation or outage of the SMO. |
| Threat type | Denial of Service |
| Impact type | Availability |
| Affected Asset | SMO |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-30 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | External attacker uses External interface to gain access to sensitive data-at-rest at the SMO |
| Threat description | If the SMO is not protected, an external attacker can use the External interface to gain authorized access to the SMO to view data-at-rest. |
| Threat type | Elevation of Privilege |
| Impact type | Authorization |
| Affected Asset | SMO |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-31 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | External attacker poisons External AI/ML data to corrupt SMO |
| Threat description | External data sources may be outside the control of the stakeholder(s) responsible for the O-RAN deployment.  The stakeholder for an External data source could fail to provide proper security controls to protect data consumed by the SMO.  If an external attacker were to gain access to AI/ML data, it could be corrupted and then be used at the SMO. |
| Threat type | Tampering |
| Impact type | Integrity |
| Affected Asset | SMO |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-32 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | External attacker poisons External Enrichment Information data sources to corrupt SMO |
| Threat description | External data sources may be outside the control of the stakeholder(s) responsible for the O-RAN deployment.  The stakeholder for an External data source could fail to provide proper security controls to protect data consumed by the SMO.  If an external attacker were to gain access to External Enrichment Information, it could be corrupted and then be used at the SMO. |
| Threat type | Tampering |
| Impact type | Integrity |
| Affected Asset | SMO |

## 6.4 Threats Targeting SME

| Threat ID | T-SMO-33 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | rApp floods SME |
| Threat description | Misbehaving 3rd-party rApp, maliciously or non-maliciously, floods internal SMOS Communication interface targeting the SME to bring a volumetric DDoS attack against the SMO. |
| Threat type | Denial of Service |
| Impact type | Availability |
| Affected Asset | SMO, SME |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-34 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | External Consumer floods SME |
| Threat description | External Source, maliciously or non-maliciously, floods the External interface targeting the SME to bring a volumetric DDoS attack against the SMO. |
| Threat type | Denial of Service |
| Impact type | Availability |
| Affected Asset | SMO, SME |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-35 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | SMOS floods SME |
| Threat description | SMOS, maliciously or non-maliciously, floods the SMOS Communication targeting the SME to bring a volumetric DDoS attack against the SMO. |
| Threat type | Denial of Service |
| Impact type | Availability |
| Affected Asset | SMO, SMOS, SME |

## 6.5 Preliminary Threat Analysis for RAN-Core Data Sharing

RAN-Core Data Sharing is a new SMO feature to provide data export from the SMO to the 5G Core (5GC).  5 possible architectural options are being considered:

WG11 performed a security analysis of the architectural options to provide recommendations for which should be considered for specification.  In summary, Option 1 is high security risk and should not be considered. Option 2, 3, 4, and 5 are lower risk and equivalent from a security perspective. However, those options have a major risk due to lack of certificate-based mutual authentication with NWDAF. Option 5, in addition, requires the 3GPP NWDAF add support for the O-RAN SME interface, which needs new 3GPP standardization.

## 6.6 Threats Targeting DME

| Threat ID | T-SMO-36 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | rApp floods DME |
| Threat description | Misbehaving 3rd-party rApp, maliciously or non-maliciously, floods internal SMOS Communication interface targeting the DME to bring a volumetric DDoS attack against the SMO. |
| Threat type | Denial of Service |
| Impact type | Availability |
| Affected Asset | SMO, DME |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-37 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | External Consumer floods DME |
| Threat description | External Source, maliciously or non-maliciously, floods the External interface targeting the DME to bring a volumetric DDoS attack against the SMO. |
| Threat type | Denial of Service |
| Impact type | Availability |
| Affected Asset | SMO, DME |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-38 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | SMOS floods DME |
| Threat description | SMOS, maliciously or non-maliciously, floods the SMOS COmmunication targeting the DME to bring a volumetric DDoS attack against the SMO. |
| Threat type | Denial of Service |
| Impact type | Availability |
| Affected Asset | SMO, SMOS, DME |

# 7 Security Controls

Industry recommendations for strong security controls are provided from sources such as the OWASP Top 10 Proactive Controls [i.15], Center for Internet Security (CIS) Critical Security Controls [i.16], Cloud Security Alliance (CSA) Cloud Control Matrix (CCM) [i.17], ISO/IEC 27001:2013 Information Security Management System (ISMS) [i.18], NIST SP 800-53r5 Security and Privacy Controls for Information Systems and Organizations [i.19], and Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) Security Guidance for 5G Cloud Infrastructures [i.9].

The OWASP Top 10 Proactive Controls are as follow:

C1: Define Security Requirements

C2: Leverage Security Frameworks and Libraries

C3: Secure Database Access

C4: Encode and Escape Data

C5: Validate All Inputs

C6: Implement Digital Identity

C7: Enforce Access Controls

C8: Protect Data Everywhere

C9: Implement Security Logging and Monitoring

C10: Handle All Errors and Exceptions

The CIS Critical Security Controls are as follow:

CIS Control 1: Inventory and Control of Enterprise Assets

CIS Control 2: Inventory and Control of Software Assets

CIS Control 3: Data Protection

CIS Control 4: Secure Configuration of Enterprise Assets and Software

CIS Control 5: Account Management

CIS Control 6: Access Control Management

CIS Control 7: Continuous Vulnerability Management

CIS Control 8: Audit Log Management

CIS Control 9: Email Web Browser and Protections

CIS Control 10: Malware Defenses

CIS Control 11: Data Recovery

CIS Control 12: Network Infrastructure Management

CIS Control 13: Network Monitoring and Defense

CIS Control 14: Security Awareness and Skills Training

CIS Control 15: Service Provider Management

CIS Control 16: Application Software Security

CIS Control 17: Incident Response Management

CIS Control 18: Penetration Testing

Relevant controls from the CSA CCM are 2. Application and Interface Security, 5. Cryptography, Encryption, and Key Management, 7. Data Security and Privacy Lifecycle Management, and 10. Identity and Access Management (IAM).

Relevant controls from ISO/IEC 27001:2013 are 5. Access Controls, 6. Cryptography, and 9. Communications Security.

Relevant controls from NIST SP 800-53r5 are 1. Access Controls, 16. Risk Assessment, 18. System and Communications Protection, and 19. System and Information Integrity.

Relevant controls from CISA’s Security Guidance are mTLS 1.2, or higher, with PKI and X.509 certificates, Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA), Principle of Least Privilege, Continuous Monitoring and Logging, and data confidentiality and protection as components of a zero trust architecture as defined in NIST SP 800-207 [i.8].

With consideration of these external sources, the following security controls should be evaluated for the SMO risk analysis:

Control-1: mTLS 1.2 or 1.3 with PKI and X.509 certificates

Control-2: OAuth 2.0

Control-3: IAM (using RBAC, ABAC, PBAC, TBAC)

Control-4: Principle of Least Privilege

Control-5: Certificate Management

Control-6: API Message Integrity Protection and Input Validation

Control-7: API Message Authentication

Control-8: Encryption for Data at Rest

Control-9: Encryption for Data in Motion

Control-10: Integrity Protection for Data at Rest

Control-11: Integrity Protection for Data in Motion

Control-12: Integrity Protection for Data in Use

Control-13: Digital Signatures

Control-14: Monitoring and Logging

Control-15: Alerting

Control-16: Rate-Limiting

Control-17: Configuration Validation

Control-18: Network Segmentation and Traffic Filtering

# Risk Assessment

This section provides risk assessment tables for each of the identified assets.  These tables list the assets, threats, impacts, and possible security controls.

A malicious actor may be a nation-state adversary, cybercriminal, or employee.  In a ZTA, perimeter defenses alone are insufficient.  The SMO must be protected from untrusted external sources attempting to have access, while also assuming internal threat actors are inside the network with access to its functions and data.  Security controls for a ZTA, protecting against external and internal threats, should be implemented through a risk-based approach.  A risk analysis calculates risk levels by assessing the threat’s Likelihood of attack and the Impact from the attack.

Impact scores can be lowered with consideration of existing security controls.  Impact scoring is based upon current security controls.  Impact scoring does not consider security controls that may be potentially specified in the future.

Likelihood scores may be higher when the goal is a ZTA, because external and internal threats must be considered.  When likelihood scoring during a risk analysis, it is necessary to consider internal threats performing reconnaissance attacks impacting confidentiality and privacy and attacks causing damage or degrading performance impacting availability.  Internal threat actors are less likely to perform damaging attacks that are quickly and easily detected and blocked, but more likely to attempt reconnaissance attacks to collect information.  As a result, reconnaissance type attacks can be scored Likelihood = High while damaging/availability attacks can be scored Likelihood = Medium or Low.

External and internal threats are from the perspective of the SMO.  External Threats are external to the SMO and Internal Threats are internal to the SMO. An External Threat may be external to the SMO but internal to the O-RAN architecture.

A risk analysis of SMO threats is provided in the tables below covering general SMO risks, risks to the O2 interface, and risks to External interfaces.

Threats and risks to the A1 and R1 interfaces are assessed in a separate Technical Report, Study on Security for Non-RT-RIC [i.20].

Additional SMO threats may be added for Decoupled SMO and Shared O-RU.

## General SMO Risks

Table 8-1. SMO Risk Analysis

| Asset-Id | Asset Name | Threat-Id | Threat Description (Brief) | Impact/  Likelihood Raw Score | Possible Security Controls | Security Control-id |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-SMO-01 | External attacker exploits authentication weakness on SMO | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data encryption using mTLS 1.2 or 1.3 | Control-1 |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-SMO-02 | External attacker exploits authorization weakness on SMO | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | OAuth 2.0, IAM, principle of least privilege | Control-2, Control-3, Control-4 |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-SMO-03 | External Overload DoS attack targeted at SMO | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Rate-Limiting | Control-16 |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-SMO-04 | Internal attacker exploits authentication weakness on a SMO function | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data encryption using mTLS 1.2 or 1.3 | Control-1 |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-SMO-05 | Internal attacker exploits authorization weakness on SMO | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | OAuth 2.0, IAM, principle of least privilege | Control-2, Control-3 |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-SMO-06 | Internal Overload DoS attack targeted at SMO functions | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Rate-Limiting | Control-16 |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-SMO-07 | Internal DoS attack disables internal SMO function(s) or process(es) | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Monitoring, Logging, Alerting | Control-14, Control-15 |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-SMO-08 | Attacker exploits insecure API to gain access to SMO | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | API input validation | Control-6 |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-SMO-09 | Sensitive data in motion is exposed to an internal attacker | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data encryption and integrity protection using mTLS 1.2 or 1.3 | Control-1 |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-SMO-10 | Sensitive data at rest is exposed to an internal attacker | Impact = High Likelihood = High | Data encryption and integrity protection | Control-8, Control-10 |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-SMO-11 | AI/ML poisoning by internal attacker | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Integrity protection | Control-10 |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-SMO-12 | AI/ML exposure on external entity | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data encryption, Integrity protection, API input validation | Control-6, Control-8, Control-10 |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-SMO-13 | Malicious actor views local logs | Impact = High Likelihood = High | Data encryption | Control-8 |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-SMO-14 | Malicious actor modifies local log entries | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Integrity protection | Control-10 |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-SMO-15 | Malicious actor deletes local logs | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Integrity protection | Control-10 |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-SMO-16 | Malicious actor intercepts exports of local logs | Impact = High Likelihood = High | Data encryption | Control-9 |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-SMO-17 | Malicious external actor gains unauthorized access to logs | Impact = High Likelihood = High | IAM, principle of least privilege | Control-3, Control-4 |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-SMO-18 | Malicious internal actor gains authorized access to logs | Impact = High Likelihood = High | Data encryption | Control-8 |

## Threats at O2 interface

Table 8-2. SMO Risk Analysis for Internal Threats at O2 Interface

| Asset-Id | Asset Name | Threat-Id | Threat Description (Brief) | Impact/  Likelihood Raw Score | Possible Security Controls | Security Control-id |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-SMO-19 | Internal attacker exploits O2 interface to view data in transit between SMO and O-Cloud | Impact = High Likelihood = High | Data encryption using mTLS 1.2 or 1.3 | Control-1 |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-SMO-20 | Internal attacker exploits O2 interface to modify data in transit between SMO and O-Cloud | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Integrity protection using mTLS 1.2 or 1.3 | Control-1 |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-SMO-21 | Internal attacker uses O2 interface via SMO to exploit API vulnerability to gain access to O-Cloud infrastructure | Impact = High Likelihood = High | API message authentication,         API input validation | Control-7, Control-6 |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-SMO-22 | Internal attacker floods O2 interface via SMO to cause DDoS on O-Cloud infrastructure | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Rate-Limiting, Network segmentation | Control-16, Control-18 |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-SMO-23 | External attacker uses O2 interface via O-Cloud to exploit API vulnerability to gain access to SMO | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | API message authentication,         API input validation | Control-7, Control-6 |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-SMO-24 | External attacker floods O2 interface via O-Cloud to cause DDoS on SMO | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Rate-Limiting, Network segmentation | Control-16, Control-18 |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-SMO-25 | External attacker uses O2 interface via O-Cloud to gain authorized access to sensitive data-at-rest at the SMO | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data encryption, Integrity protection | Control-8, Control-10 |

## Threats at External Interfaces

Table 8-3. SMO Risk Analysis for External Threats at External interfaces

| Asset-Id | Asset Name | Threat-Id | Threat Description (Brief) | Impact/  Likelihood Raw Score | Possible Security Controls | Security Control-id |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-SMO-26 | External attacker exploits External interface to view data in transit between SMO and external service | Impact = High Likelihood = High | Data encryption using mTLS 1.2 or 1.3 | Control-1 |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-SMO-27 | External attacker exploits External interface to modify data in transit between SMO and external service | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Integrity protection using mTLS 1.2 or 1.3 | Control-1 |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-SMO-28 | External attacker uses External  interface to exploit API vulnerability to gain access to SMO | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | API message authentication,         API input validation | Control-7, Control-6 |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-SMO-29 | External attacker floods External interface to cause DDoS at SMO | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Rate-Limiting, Network segmentation | Control-16, Control-18 |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-SMO-30 | External attacker uses External interface to gain access to sensitive data-at-rest at the SMO | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Data encryption, Integrity protection | Control-8, Control-10 |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-SMO-31 | External attacker poisons External AI/ML data to corrupt SMO | Impact = High Likelihood = High | Data encryption, Integrity protection | Control-8, Control-10 |
| ASSET-C-01 | SMO | T-SMO-32 | External attacker poisons External Enrichment Information data sources to corrupt SMO | Impact = High Likelihood = High | Data encryption, Integrity protection | Control-8, Control-10 |

## 8.4 Threats Targeting SME

Table 8-4. SMO Risk Analysis for Threats Targeting SME

| Asset-Id | Asset Name | Threat-Id | Threat Description (Brief) | Impact/  Likelihood Raw Score | Possible Security Controls | Security Control-id |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| TBD | SME | T-SMO-32 | rApp floods SME | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Overload protection with rate-limiting at SME | Control-16 |
| TBD | SME | T-SMO-33 | External Consumer floods SME | Impact = High Likelihood = Medium | Network Segmentation, Traffic Filtering, Rate-Limiting | Control-16, Control-18 |

# Primary Security Issues

The following items were identified during the SMO Security Analysis phase 1 and were addressed in TR v1:

- External interfaces to the SMO and Non-RT RIC have risks of exploitation from external threat actors.  The protocol and API used on an external interface is defined by the application or service and is not in-scope for the O-RAN Alliance.  WG11 analyzed the threats, risks, and potential security controls with the goal to provide general security requirements for any implementation of an External interface with the goal to protect O-RAN network functions and data.
- The O2 interface is at risk of being exploited by an internal threat actor at the SMO or the O-Cloud.  This TR provides a security analysis of the O2 interface from the perspectives of the internal threat actor at the SMO and the O-Cloud, in addition to external threats.  The work item team will need to collaborate with the O-Cloud security work item team to ensure complete coverage of O2 threats and security controls.
The following items were identified as SMO security topics that require additional phases of the SMO Security Analysis to produce an update to the TR.

- WG1 is considering a Decoupled SMO architecture based upon a Service-based Architecture (SBA) as used in the 5G Core.  This evolution of the SMO architecture would have security implications which WG1 should consider.  WG11 has performed a security analysis for Decoupled SMO.  WG11 should contribute security requirements as WG1 develops specifications for a Decoupled SMO.
- The Decoupled SMO architecture will define a set of SMO Services called SMOS.  WG11 has performed a security analysis for SMOS. WG11 should contribute security requirements as WG1 develops specifications for SMOS.  Requirements can be general SMOS security requirements and SMOS-specific security requirements.
- SMO service consumers and service producers may be SMOS and/or rApps. WG1 is considering to have the Service Management Exposure (SME) service act a security proxy for all SMO service consumers access service producers.  WG11 should perform a security analysis for the SME to be a security proxy.
- WG11 has performed a security analysis for RAN-Core Data Sharing. WG11 should contribute security requirements as WG1 develops specifications for RAN-Core Data Sharing.

# Recommendations

The Security Analysis presented in this technical report used the following process:

- Asset identification -> 2. Threat identification -> 3. Threat analysis -> 4. Risk analysis -> 5. Recommend Security Controls
The SMO is a logical framework, not an implementation architecture, with external interfaces and internal functions and interfaces that are assets which should be protected with security controls.  The SMO may be implemented as a monolithic platform or multiple disaggregated functions, such as SMO functions and Non-RT-RIC functions, which should be protected assets.  Other SMO assets are the R1, A1, O1, O2, OFH M-Plane, and External interfaces and data at rest and in transit.

Recommendation 1: WG11 should update the Security Threat Modeling and Remediation Analysis document [i.6] to include the assets identified in this security analysis technical report.  A CR will be generated.

For the threat analysis, external and internal threats were considered from the perspective of the SMO.  Internal threats are internal the SMO and external threats are external to the SMO. External threats may be external to the SMO and internal to the O-RAN architecture.  More than 30 threats were identified, categorized as general SMO threats, O2 interface threats, and External interfaces threat.

Recommendation 2: WG11 should update the Security Threat Modeling and Remediation Analysis document [i.6] to include the threats and threat tables created in this security analysis technical report.  A CR will be generated.

Risk analysis of the identified threats included impact-likelihood scoring.  All 30+ of the identified threats were score either high-medium or high-high. External data sources are considered the greatest threat to the SMO due to the risk of an external threat actor poisoning external data that is imported into the SMO and the risk of an external threat actor exploiting an API on the external interface to gain access to the SMO or perform a remote code execution attack.

Likelihood scoring was influenced by the consideration of a zero trust architecture (ZTA), which is a publicly expressed goal of the O-RAN Alliance to consider external and internal threats.  ZTA is built on the foundational principles that perimeter defenses are insufficient to secure a network as internal external threats pose risk to a network.  There are two guidelines for designing a network and its network functions for a ZTA:

- There is no implicit trust granted to an asset based upon ownership, physical location, or network location [i.8].
- Assume the adversary is already inside the network [i.9].
The security controls recommended in this TR protect the SMO from confidentiality, integrity, and availability attacks from external and internal threats, consistent with a ZTA.

Recommendation 3: The SMO should have security controls implemented to protect its functions and interfaces from external and internal threats, consistent with a ZTA. Specific requirements will be formed as this work item continues.  A CR for the WG11 Security Requirements Specifications is planned for the March release train.

Consistent with a ZTA, the SMO should be secure by design in which its security posture does not assume that the SMO internal functions and interfaces are secure.

Recommendation 4: WG11 should collaborate with WG1 to ensure the WG11 security specifications are referenced by WG1 in its SMO specifications.  This process will build-in security to the evolving specifications for the SMO and Decoupled SMO.

The SMO architecture is continuing to evolve to support Decoupled SMO and direct communication between internal SMO functions and applications.  In addition, the security analysis will also need to consider Transport Node (TN) Termination, as specified in WG9, and Cooperative Transport Interface (CTI), as specified in WG4.

Recommendation 5: This SMO Security work item continues its security analysis to produce a TR v2 for the March release train, addressing Decoupled SMO, TN, and CTI.

The SMO role in certificate management is currently unspecified.

Recommendation 6: The WG11 Certificate Management work item team should investigate a potential role, if any, for the SMO in certificate management.


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG11.TR.Security-Near-RT-RIC-xApps.0-R004-v06.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG11.TR.Security-Near-RT-RIC-xApps.0-R004-v06.00"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms

For the purposes of the present document, the following terms apply:

Near-RT RIC: O-RAN Near-Real-Time RAN Intelligent Controller: A logical function that enables near-real-time control and optimization of RAN elements and resources via fine-grained data collection and actions over E2 interface.

Non-RT RIC: O-RAN Non-Real-Time RAN Intelligent Controller: A logical function within SMO that drives the content carried across the A1 interface. It is comprised of the Non-RT RIC Framework and the Non-RT RIC Applications.

O-CU-CP: O-RAN Central Unit – Control Plane: a logical node hosting RRC and the control plane part of PDCP protocol.

O-CU-UP: O-RAN Central Unit – User Plane: a logical node hosting the user plane part of PDCP protocol and SDAP protocol.

O-DU: O-RAN Distributed Unit: a logical node hosting RLC/MAC/High-PHY layers based on a lower layer functional split.

O-RU: O-RAN Radio Unit: a logical node hosting Low-PHY layer and RF processing based on a lower layer functional split.  This is similar to 3GPP’s “TRP” or “RRH” but more specific in including the Low-PHY layer (FFT/iFFT, PRACH extraction).

O-eNB: An eNB or ng-eNB that supports E2 interface.

O1: An interface between SMO and O-RAN managed elements, for operation and management, by which FCAPS management, PNF (Physical Network Function) Software management, File management shall be achieved.

SMO: A Service Management and Orchestration system.

A1: An interface between Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC to enable policy-driven guidance of Near-RT RIC applications/functions, and support AI/ML workflow.

E2: An interface connecting Near-RT RIC and one or more O-CU-CPs, one or more O-CU-Ups, or one or more O-Dus.

Y1: An interface between Near-RT RIC and Y1 consumers [i.32]. The interface enables RAN analytics information exposure from Near-RT RIC.

E2 Node: A logical node terminating E2 interface. In this version of the specification, O-RAN nodes terminating E2 interface are:

-	for NR access: O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU

-	for E-UTRA access: O-eNB.

xApp: An application designed to run on Near-RT RIC. It may consist of one or more microservices and at the point of on-boarding it identifies which data it consumes and which data it provides. It is independent of Near-RT RIC and may be provided by any third party. The E2 interface enables a direct association between xApp and RAN functionalities.

O-Cloud: O-Cloud is a cloud computing platform comprising a collection of physical infrastructure nodes that meet O-RAN requirements to host the relevant O-RAN functions (such as Near-RT RIC, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, and O-DU), the supporting software components (such as Operating System, Virtual Machine Monitor, Container Runtime, etc.) and the appropriate management and orchestration functions.

Solution Provider: An application developer who delivers applications to Service Providers. [i.22]

Service Provider: A network provider who is planning to deploy applications into their network. [i.22]

## 3.2 Symbols

Void.

## 3.3 Abbreviations

For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:

API				Application Programming Interface

- **AI/ML**: Artificial Intelligence/Machine Learning
- **CP**: Control Plane
- **DoS**: Denial of Service
- **DTLS**: Datagram Transport Layer Security
- **eNB**: e NodeB (applies to LTE)
- **E2SM**: E2 Service Model
- **FCAPS**: Fault, Configuration, Accounting, Performance, Security
- **FM**: Fault Management
- **gNB**: g NodeB (applies to NR)
- **IPsec**: Internet Procotol Security
- **JWS**: JSON Web Signature
- **JWT**: JSON Web Token
- **LCM**: Life-Cycle Management
- **MEC**: Multi-access Edge Computing
- **MIMO**: Multiple Input Multiple Output
- **Near-RT RIC**: Near-real-time RAN Intelligent Controller
- **NIB**: Network Information Base
- **Non-RT RIC**: Non-real-time RAN Intelligent Controller
- **O-CU**: O-RAN Central Unit
- **O-DU**: O-RAN Distributed Unit
- **O-RU**: O-RAN Radio Unit
- **PM**: Performance Management
- **QoS**: Quality of Service
- **QoE**: Quality of Experience
- **RAIE**: RAN Analytic Information Exposure
- **RAI API**: RAN Analytics Information API, internal to the Near-RT RIC
- **RAN**: Radio Access Network
- **RIC**: RAN Intelligent Controller
- **R-NIB**: Radio-Network Information Base
- **RRM**: Radio Resource Management
- **SBA**: Service Based Architecture
- **SDL**: Share Data Layer
- **SMO**: Service Management and Orchestration
- **TLS**: Transport Layer Security
- **UE**: User Equipment
- **UE-NIB**: UE-Network Information Base
- **UP**: User Plane
- **Y1 API**: RAN Analytics Information API, for consumers outside of the Near-RT RIC
- **Y1T**: Y1 API Termination, i.e. Near-RT RIC platform function implementing a Y1 API provider

# 4 RIC background, concepts and assumptions

## Near-RT RIC architecture

The following diagram shows the building blocks of the Near-RT RIC internal architecture. For more detailed descriptions of the architecture and platform functions, see WG3 Near-RT RIC Architecture specification [i.3].

Interface Termination for E2, A1, O1, Y1

xApp: application that runs on the Near-RT RIC to provide desired RAN functionality

Messaging infrastructure: provides low-latency message delivery service b/t Near-RT RIC internal endpoints

Conflict mitigation: resolves potentially overlapping or conflicting requests from multiple xApps

Subscription management: manages subscriptions from xApps to E2 Nodes and enforces authorization of policies

Management services: life-cycle management of xApps (onboarding, deployment, resource management, and termination) and FCAPS management of Near-RT RIC (logging, tracing, metrics collection)

Security: provides the security scheme for the xApps. One of the targets of this function is to prevent malicious xApps from abusing radio network information (e.g. exporting to unauthorized external systems) and/or control capabilities over RAN functions

> NOTE:	The Security function is a placeholder in Near-RT RIC architecture and has not been specified yet. The requirements and solutions proposed in this study will support the specification of this function.
AI/ML support: provides data ingestion and preparation for xApps and AI/ML training for xApps

xApp Repository Function: performs selection of xApps for A1 message routing and provides policy types supported in Near-RT RIC to the A1 termination function

Shared Data Layer (SDL): API for accessing shared data storage

Database: UE-NIB database contains a list of Ues and associated data, and Radio-NIB database stores configurations and information relating to the connected E2 Nodes

API Enablement: support for registration, discovery and consumption of Near-RT RIC APIs

Y1 Consumers: communicate via Y1 interface and consume RAN analytics information service(s) from Near-RT RIC

## Interfaces

E2 : Interface between the Near-RT RIC and the E2 Nodes (O-DU, O-CU-UP, O-CU-CP, O-eNB) [i.5]

O1 : Interface between the SMO and O-RAN Managed Functions (Near-RT RIC, O-RU, O-DU, O-CU-UP, O-CU-CP, O-eNB) [i.6][i.7][i.8]

A1 : Interface between the Non-RT RIC at the SMO and the Near-RT RIC [i.9]

Y1: communicates with Y1 consumers via Y1 interface and exposes RAN analytics information service(s) from Near-RT RIC.

## xApps

As per definition in [i.3], an xApp is an application designed to run on Near-RT RIC. It may consist of one or more microservices and at the point of on-boarding it identifies which data it consumes and which data it provides. It is independent of Near-RT RIC and may be provided by any third party. The E2 interface enables a direct association between xApp and RAN functionalities.

From security viewpoint the following requirements [i.3] are key aspects to take into consideration in this study, and will be developed in subsequent key issues and solutions:

- xApps shall communicate with Near-RT RIC platform via Near-RT RIC APIs.
- xApps shall use Near-RT RIC APIs to make use of the Information Elements (Ies) only of the E2 Service Models (E2SM) that are associated with it.
> NOTE 1:	E2SM describes the functions in the E2 Node which may be controlled by the Near-RT RIC and corresponding procedures.
- xApp shall register the APIs it produces.
> NOTE 2: 	Services for which the API producer is the xApp are FFS
- xApp shall be capable of discovering the Near-RT RIC APIs they consume
- The platform will consider the level of trust related to the xApp, e.g. 3rd party xApp, RIC-owned xApp (i.e. xApp provided by the RIC vendor)

## Near-RT RIC APIs

The following diagram [i.3] provides a representation of the APIs involved in Near-RT RIC.

- A1 related APIs: APIs allowing to access A1 related functionality.
- Policy Enforcement API (transactional)
- Enrichment information API (transactional)
- E2 related APIs: APIs allowing to access E2 related functionality and associated xApp Subscription Management and Conflict Mitigation functionality.
- E2 Subscription API (transactional)
- E2 Guidance (transactional)
- E2 Indication (time critical, uni-streaming)
- E2 Control (time critical, bi-streaming)
- Management APIs: APIs allowing to access management related functionality. They are used for services such as O1 Termination, management services and logging, tracing, metrics collection.
- ML model related APIs (FFS)
- FCAPS related APIs (transactional):
- xApp Registration API
- xApp Deregistration API
- Configuration API
- PM (Performance Management) API
- FM (Fault Management) API
- SDL API (transactional + Uni-streaming): API allowing to access Shared Data Layer related functionalities (store/fetch/notify/modify/push/…) over R-NIB, UE-NIB, other data in the database.
- Enablement APIs (transactional): APIs between xApps and API enablement functionality.
- Registration API. Enabling the API producer to register the APIs it produces
- Discovery API. Enabling the discovery of the Near-RT RIC APIs by the xApps
- Subscription API. Enabling the subscription/un-subscription to API-related events and event notification.

# Key Issues

## Key Issue #1: Malicious xApps deployed on the Near-RT RIC

### Key issue detail

xApps on the Near-RT RIC can collect near real-time information from E2 Nodes and influence behavior of E2 Nodes thereby impacting cell performance and delivery of services to a group of Ues or a single UE. The security requirements for onboarding and hosting xApps should be defined to reduce the risk of unauthorized, untrusted, or malicious xApps to be deployed into the Near-RT RIC.

Malicious xApps could be onboarded onto the Near-RT RIC with the intent of manipulating or negatively impacting the delivery of services to subscribers, the RAN, or the core network. Malicious xApps could also be onboarded onto the Near-RT RIC with the intent of accessing, manipulating or negatively impacting the privacy of subscribers, the RAN or the core network.

This threat has been identified in O-RAN Threat Model [i.1] as Threat ID T-NEAR-RT-01.

### Security threats

The security threats associated with the onboarding and deployment of malicious xApps include:

•	Malicious xApps attaining unauthorized access to the Near-RT RIC and E2 Nodes

•	Malicious xApps abusing radio network information and control capabilities over RAN functions

•	Malicious xApp impacting service for a subscriber or a dedicated area

•	Malicious xApp exploiting UE identification, tracking UE location and changing UE slice priority

### Potential security requirements

xApps shall be authenticated during onboarding using a signature that is generated by the xApp Solution Provider and validated by the Service Provider.

xApps shall be validated during Registration to the Near-RT RIC platform using signatures from both the Service Provider and the xApp Solution Provider.

## Key Issue #2: Compromised xApp

Vulnerabilities can potentially exist in any xApp. Those can be e.g.:

- Security misconfiguration, such as enabled but unnecessary protocols
- Weak or misconfigured authentication and authorization
- A malicious xApp an untrusted source may intentionally provide
- A backdoor intentionally inserted in the xApp by a trusted source
- An attacker submitting requests without prior authentication and authorization by executing an injection attack to manipulate configurations, access logs, perform remote code execution, etc
If attackers can find an exploitable xApp, they can disrupt the offered network service and potentially take over another xApp or the Near-RT RIC. The actual consequences may vary. For example, an attacker may gain the ability to alter data transmitted by any accessible API, extract sensitive information, etc.

### Security Threats

The security threats associated with compromised xApps include:

- Security misconfiguration
- Weak authentication and authorization
- Malicious xApps from an untrusted source
- Backdoors in trusted xApps
- Vulnerabilities in trusted apps
Requirement: xApps images shall be authenticated during onboarding using a signature that is generated by the xApp Solution Provider and validated by the Service/Cloud Provider and telco operator.

Requirement: xApps instances shall be validated during Registration to the Near-RT RIC platform using signatures from both the Service/Cloud Provider and the xApp Solution Provider. Signatures made from certificates reaching the end of their lifetime shall be renewed before the certificate times out (signatures provided by the xApp Solution Provider might be ignored if the signature of the Service/Cloud Provider is valid).

Recommendation: xApps should be hardened by the vendor, and this hardening should be tested by the service provider, using a well-defined standard, e.g., using penetration tests

Requirement: xApp APIs shall be provided with proper Authentication/Authorization schemas.

Recommendation: prevent supply chain attacks, e.g., as defined in [i.24]

## Key Issue #3: Conflicting xApps

xApps can change RAN parameters to optimize a specific network metric, which could result in conflicting actions between xApps. Conflicting xApps can unintentionally or maliciously impact O-RAN system functions such as mobility management, admission controls, radio resource control, and load balancing to degrade the performance or availability of the network.

The functional split between the Near-RT RIC and the E2-Node depends on the available xApps and the capabilities exposed by the O-gNB. This can create possible conflicts between the decisions taken by the Near-RT RIC and the O-gNB that could lead to instability in the network, which introduces vulnerabilities that could be exploited by threat actors. [i.1]

This threat has been identified in O-RAN Threat Model [i.1] as Threat ID T-xApp-02.

The security threats associated with conflicting xApps include:

- DoS from an xApp intentionally creating RRM decisions that conflict with gNB internal decisions
- Degradation of performance from an xApp intentionally creating RRM decisions that conflict with other xApp decisions
The solution should make use of the existing, but currently optional, E2 Guidance Request Procedure during xApp Registration to mitigate conflicts arising from new xApps. The purpose of the E2 Guidance procedures is to allow xApps to obtain guidance from the Conflict Mitigation function in the Near-RT RIC. The Conflict Mitigation function is intended to resolve potentially overlapping or conflicting requests from multiple xApps, but some conflict mitigation messages and procedures are FFS [i.3].

## Key Issue #4: Isolation between xApps

The Near-RT RIC enables near real time control and optimization of RAN elements and resources via fine-grained data collection and actions over E2 interface, and includes open interfaces (A1, O1) to the management and orchestration system (SMO). This will be achieved using a collection of xApps, with each xApp providing a specific functionality by consuming a specific subset of data or producing data for other xApps or Near-RT RIC platform. To provide its desired functionality, the xApps would interact with other Near-RT RIC platform components.

In a multi-vendor environment, where 3rd party xApps and those provided by the RIC vendor are deployed together, an xApp can be used to impact the other co-located xApps/Near-RT RIC platform thus creating a noisy neighbour effect where an xApp can overconsume the underlying shared resources provided by the Near-RT RIC platform like CPU, memory, I/O bandwidth, etc. and can negatively affect the performance of other co-located xApps and potentially other CNFs sharing the same underlying platform.

It’s also possible that xApps have different levels of access to the data and resources available on Near-RT RIC. Appropriate isolation is needed for xAPPs that have different threat profiles.

Without proper isolation, an xApp can be used to:

- overconsume the platform resources shared by all xApps, creating a noisy neighbour effect by leaving other co-located xApps with a resource deficit.
- administer DoS attacks on other co-located xApps and impacting service offered by the xApp under attacks
- administer DoS attacks on the Near-RT RIC platform components, impacting the availability of the Near-RT RIC
- administer unauthorised access to sensitive real-time information from RAN, persistent configuration used by the Near-RT RIC to control the RAN
- probe for vulnerabilities in the underlying system hosting the xApps application and use them to administer attacks on another xApps and the platform
Requirement: Based on xAPPs threat profile, the Near-RT RIC platform shall categorise and isolate xApps into different security groups and define security boundaries. Near-RT RIC platform shall cap the resources allocated to xApps make sure that xApps trying to overconsume the resources are quarantined.

Requirement: Access controls shall be established and enforced for accessing critical data in Near-RT RIC

Requirement: Communication between security zones shall require mutual authentication and authorization between communicating xApps

## Key Issue #5: Compromise of ML data pipelines used in Near-RT RIC

The Near-RT RIC contains database(s) which contain historic data collected from UE and RAN information. This historic data can be used to train various ML models used in Near-RT RIC. Also, streaming data may be collected from E2 nodes by some ML based xApps, and used either for training ML models or deriving inferences.

ML data pipelines can consist of several ML models, using one or more sources of data for training as well as inference derivation. xApps can have ML pipelines implemented within, or can be using ML pipelines from another xApps that provide analytics services.

ML data pipelines can be compromised due to:

- A potential vulnerability existing in the xApp that implements the ML pipeline
- Poisoning of ML training data due to compromised E2 node(s)
- Poisoning of ML training data due to compromised UE(s)
- Compromised database(s) which store historic data used for ML training
- Compromised interfaces of Near-RT RIC allowing a malicious intruder to alter some of the training data that may be used to train ML models used by xApps
T_ML_01 from ORAN Threat Modelling [i.1] is applicable here.

The following security requirements should be considered:

- Secure data storage, and secure data transfer mechanisms shall be implemented in Near-RT RIC.
- Authenticated and authorized access to data stores shall be implemented in Near-RT RIC.
- Near-RT RIC deployment shall have provision for regular security vulnerability patch updates for xApps.
- Integrity of xApps shall be monitored after installation as well as during runtime on a periodic or need basis.
- O-Cloud security requirements shall be adhered to, in order to ensure that the interfaces feeding data to ML data pipelines are secured.
- Detection of compromised E2 nodes, and filtering ML data pipelines to exclude inputs from such nodes.
- Detection of compromised UE, and filtering ML data pipelines to exclude inputs from such Ues.

## Key Issue #6: Altering the ML learning models used in Near-RT RIC

Near-RT RIC hosts a set of xApps, some of which may contain ML based solutions performing inference and/or training processes.

- ML enabled xApps can hold any required ML models and would be deployed as an integrated function.
- In such cases, if ML models use online training, or transfer learning, or reinforcement learning, or other such mechanisms, it is likely that during runtime, the binary footprint of the models can change for good reasons. However, this makes it a challenge to distinguish between maliciously modified ML models and genuine model changes.
- xApps can also use ML models stored in databases or separate filesystems/storage
- xApps can perform online training of ML models by updating the models in DB, while ensuring that the binary footprint of xApp remains un-changed
For xApps having embedded ML models, a compromise of ML models is likely due to following reasons:

- A potential vulnerability existing in xApp
- Security Weakness in APIs exposed by xApps
- For example, APIs allowing modifications of ML models using transfer learning can allow changes of models by a malicious source, if authentication and authorization for such interfaces are not strong
For xApps using ML models stored in DB/separate storage, a compromise of ML models is likely due to following reasons:

- A potential vulnerability existing in xApp leading to compromised ML model updated in the DB
- A potential vulnerability existing in DB security
- Missing or weak authentication and authorization for DB
Transfer Learning can be implemented in a manner that Non-RT RIC can provide updated ML models to Near-RT RIC via A1 interface. If this interface is compromised, or, if an un-authenticated or un-authorized source is allowed to update ML models in Near-RT RIC, it can lead to unexpected behaviour of ML models.

T_ML_02 from ORAN Threat Modelling [i.1] is applicable here.

An attacker can illegally access a machine learning model and alter its parameters and thereby influence how it produces results. This can lead to wrong prediction and might result in catastrophic decisions if the results of the predictions were being used to make key business decisions.

Also, an attacker can extract sensitive or confidential data that, through training, are built right into the ML model.

Following security requirements should be considered:

- Integrity of xApps shall be monitored after installation as well as during runtime on a periodic or need basis.
- Secure data storage, and secure data transfer mechanisms shall be implemented in Near-RT RIC.
- Authenticated and authorized access to data stores shall be implemented in Near-RT RIC. Security measures shall be ensured to allow only authenticated and authorized applications providing ML model updates over the A1 interface.

## Key Issue #7: Data Protection and Privacy in Near-RT RIC Database

The Near-RT RIC contains database(s) which contain sensitive UE and RAN information, including history of the network state, configurations related to E2 Nodes, cells, bearers, flows, UE identities, and the mappings between them. Overlayed on top of these databases is the shared data layer (SDL) which enables xApp access. There is currently no model for authentication or authorization for the database(s). The Near-RT RIC requires security mechanisms in place to ensure xApps have authenticated access to the database(s) and may access only parts of the database(s) in which they have permission to access. Adverse effects may result if no security mechanisms are in place, such as manipulation of database information.

xApps that have gained unauthorized access to Near-RT RIC database(s) have the ability to:

Perform unauthorized database operations and manipulate database information to impact network service and performance

Export sensitive data from the Near-RT RIC database(s) (data or user privacy threat)

Monitor the database for specific information and take an adverse action

Near-RT RIC shall authenticate xApp access to the Near-RT RIC database(s) during SDL registration.

Near-RT RIC shall provide authorized access to Near-RT RIC database(s).

## Key Issue #8: Onboarding untrusted xApps

As per definition in [i.3], an xApp is an application designed to run on Near-RT RIC. It may consist of one or more microservices. It is independent of Near-RT RIC and may be provided by any third party. As part of offering its service to Near RT-RIC, some of the xApp’s functionalities include

-	communicating with Near-RT RIC platform via Near-RT RIC API,

-	providing the APIs it produces to other xApps and Near-RT RIC,

-	collecting near real-time information from E2 Nodes and influence behaviour of E2 Nodes and

-	accessing Near-RT RIC Databases (via SDL) which gives access to sensitive information related to UE and RAN

Onboarding an untrusted third party xApp onto Near-RT RIC can create serious security issues which can compromise the Near-RT RIC functionality, impact the availability of other xApps and have cascading impact on overall performance of ORAN.

Onboarding an untrusted third party xApp onto Near-RT RIC can cause similar or same security threats as a Malicious or Badly configured xApp. Some well-known and easily administrated attacks with untrusted xApps are:

- If the xApp is not from a trusted source or is not maintained by a trusted source, it could contain security vulnerabilities or back doors which could be exploited by the attackers and impact Near-RT RIC functions
- The untrusted/unverified xApp could provide APIs with weak security (weak or no authentication and authorization) and such xApps could be easy target for attackers to break in and propagate lateral movement of attack in the system (towards other xApps).
- The untrusted/unverified xApp could expose more services than required and such xApps could expose a large attack surface to the attackers to break in and gain access, manipulate configurations, access logs, insert back doors
- The untrusted/unverified xApp can be used to sniff sensitive UE information which can be used by attackers or the untrusted/unverified xApp itself for rogue purposes
Requirement: The xApp shall be compliant to industry standards for API security (eg : OWASP Top 10)

Requirement: The xApp shall be free of any known software vulnerabilities.

Requirement: The xApp shall be authenticated before the app is onboarded to the cloud platform and registered onto the Near-RT RIC platform

Requirement: The xApp shall support appropriate authorization schemes to make sure that a user accessing its service shall not be able to execute any actions that the user is not authorized for.

Requirement: The xApp shall harden its service offering by making sure that only required services should be exposed to its users.

## Key Issue #9: xApp exploitation via malicious A1 policies

The Non-RT RIC defines policies that are provided to the Near-RT RIC over the A1 interface. The purpose of the A1 policies is to guide and optimize the RAN, and the policies inform behavior of xApps in the Near-RT RIC. [i.9]

Unauthorized access to the Non-RT RIC enables the creation of ‘false policies’ that can be issued to the Near-RT RIC for enforcement. Existing Near-RT RIC policies could also be modified to achieve a false policy. False policies passed to the Near-RT RIC would be persistent until they were modified or deleted by the Non-RT RIC or the Near-RT RIC power cycles.

The Near-RT RIC is capable of steering traffic to achieve optimal QoS or QoE performance. A false policy could notionally cause the Near-RT RIC to steer user data to isolate the data in order to facilitate a cyber-attack.

Security protections are defined for the A1 interface and security work is in process for A1 related APIs and the Non-RT RIC. For example, A1 peering should be established with only trusted sources using TLS 1.2, or higher, and PKI X.509 certificates, as specified in [i.19].  TLS also provides confidentiality and integrity protection. Additional Near-RT RIC authentication of the A1 policy may be a consideration later, after the above security protections are defined and evaluated.

## Key Issue #10: Near-RT RIC APIs authentication

Like any software, APIs can be compromised, and data can be intercepted. APIs can be manipulated causing service disruptions and can be subject as well to DoS attacks. Authentication, an essential part of secure communication, ensures that an attribute claimed by a given entity (e.g., its identity) is actually correct. In the context of secure communication between xApps and Near-RT RIC platform, the platform shall authenticate all xApps instances and only provide them with the information and services for which they are authorized through the use of the Near-RT RIC APIs, as a key objective to guarantee the validity of the transferred messages. xApps can also act as service producers, exposing APIs to be consumed by other xApps for example. In that case, the xApps ‘producers’ shall authenticate the instances interested in consuming those xApp services. Authentication is also a prerequisite for conducting authorization which itself is another key issue for API Security.

> NOTE:	using the xApp registration procedure Near-RT platform performs authentication and validation of the xApp, addressed in solution #1, however xApps, as consumers of the services exposed by Near-RT RIC APIs, are not authenticated as per current O-RAN specifications at the time of requesting those services.
Not mutually authenticating xApps and Near-RT RIC platform APIs could potentially allow attackers to perform the following type of attacks [i.17]:

- Operating malicious xApp claiming to be genuine in order to request certain services (theft of services) or information (data leakage)
- Man in the middle attacks between a genuine xApp and a Near-RT RIC platform API
- Querying network or UE information from a compromised xApp to Near-RT RIC platform (e.g. database via SDL API), thereby leaking potentially sensitive data about network and/or UE (potential privacy issues)
- Subscribing a malicious xApp to services provided by the Near-RT RIC platform, such as API-related events notifications, discovery of APIs, E2SM, etc.
The use of weak credentials in the process of API authentication can compromise the overall system. The user/password combination isn’t considered safe, not only for password related attacks (e.g., brute-force), but also it would represent a high risk to allow xApps, especially 3rd party xApps, to store the user/password combo. This approach would extend the attack surface into xApps side.

As a reference, OWASP API Security Top 10 report [i.10] indicates that authentication mechanisms are often implemented incorrectly, allowing attackers to compromise authentication tokens or to exploit implementation flaws to assume other use’'s identities temporarily or permanently. Compromising syste’'s ability to identify the client/user, compromises API security overall.

The communication between xApps and Near-RT RIC platform APIs shall be authenticated at least at the transport layer (for e.g., with mutual TLS).

At application layer complementary end to end authentication mechanisms based on JSON Web Tokens (JWTs) may be considered as well.

## Key Issue #11: Near-RT RIC APIs authorization

Authorization is the function of specifying and enforcing access rights or privileges to certain resources or services. In the actual context of Near-RT RIC, the platform as API producer shall be responsible to specify those rights/privileges for the platform services as resources to the xApps as consumers. In general, an xApp should only have the required set of permissions to perform the actions for which they are authorized, and no more.

> NOTE:	The investigation of services for which the API producer is the xApp is FFS [i.3].
Authorization mechanisms are to be enforced by the Near-RT RIC platform among other in the following key API procedures [i.3]:

- Discovery of Near-RT RIC APIs: The Near-RT RIC platform shall provide means to restrict xApps from discovery of some published APIs based on configuration policies.
- E2 Subscription API procedure: The subscription management shall be based on operator’s policies. An xApp may be restricted to interface with only a subset of E2 Nodes by such policies. This procedure establishes a set of preconditions that assume authorization processes:
- xApp has been authorized to issue E2 Subscription API requests
- xApp has been authorized to request guidance from Conflict mitigation
- xApp Subscription Management has been configured to permit E2 Subscription API requests only from specific list of xApps.
- E2 Control API procedure: Only authorized xApps may initiate RIC control request messages issued by the Near-RT RIC over the E2 interface to the E2 Nodes, for a specific scope (e.g, E2 Node list, RAN function, etc.).
- E2 Guidance API procedure: The purpose of this procedure only authorized xApp to obtain guidance from the conflict mitigation platform function prior to initiating an action.
- SDL API procedures: The precondition to consume the services exposed by SDL API (e.g, client registration, fetch data, notification, store, etc.) is that xApps have been successfully registered and authorized.
If the API consumers are not authorized by the API producers, attackers (e.g, malicious xApps) would potentially be able to perform the following types of attacks:

- Abuse and/or theft of services or information (data leakage), requesting and successfully obtaining them from the platform, e.g, in order to extract potentially sensitive information from the network and/or uEs
- Negatively impacting the network performance due to malicious policies over E2 Nodes
- Flooding the platform with resource demanding operations that may lead to a Denial of Service attack
As a reference, OWASP API Security Top 10 report [i.10] indicates that ‘Broken Object Level Authorization’ has been the most common and impactful attack on APIs. Even if the application implements a proper infrastructure for authorization checks, developers might forget to use these checks before accessing a sensitive object. Unauthorized access can result in data disclosure to unauthorized parties, data loss, or data manipulation.

Near-RT RIC architecture shall provide an authorization framework for the consumption of the services exposed in the platform APIs by the xApps, that takes operator policies into consideration. The framework should be used by the specified API procedures in [i.3].

The authorization framework may need to consider the level of trust related to the xApp (e.g. 3rd party xApp, RIC-owned xApp, etc.)

## Key Issue #12: xAppID abuse

As part of the xApp registration procedure into the Near-RT RIC platform, the platform assigns an identity (ID) to the xApp, so called xApp ID. This xApp ID is assumed to be used in xApps API request messages to the Near-RT RIC platform to enable the Near-RT RIC platform to identify the xApp (API service consumer).  For the platform to trust the xAppID in the xApps request messages it is necessary to bind this xAppID to some trust anchor. Also, the xAppID needs to be uniquely identifying a single xApp instance.

Not uniquely identifying xApps using a trusted xAppID potentially entails certain threats and potential attacks:

- A non-unique xAppID might cause misidentification of an xApp, possibly allowing a potentially malicious xApp to request certain services (theft of services), information (data leakage), or alter existing information
- A malicious xApp might use the xAppID assigned to a legitimate xApp to request services or information from Near-RT RIC platform
- A non-unique xApp ID could make it impossible to accurately assign actions to the correct xApp
- A non-unique xApp ID could make it difficult to recognize that a malicious xApp is in the environment
The Near-RT RIC shall provide a procedure to embed the xAppID into a trust anchor (e.g., X.509 certificate) assigned to the xApp used for authentication (mTLS) and for authorization (OAuth – client authentication).

The Near-RT RIC shall create each xAppID using procedures that avoid duplicates, such as UUID as described in IETF RFC 9562 [i.45].

## Key Issue #13: Malicious Y1 Consumer

Near-RT RIC provides RAN analytics information services via Y1 service interface. These services can be consumed by Y1 consumers by subscribing to or requesting the RAN analytics information via the Y1 service interface. Y1 consumers may be Application Functions (AFs) which are within an O-RAN trusted domain. AFs outside the O-RAN trusted domain may use Y1 services, too.

Malicious Y1 consumer functions may use their access through the Y1 interface with the intent of accessing, manipulating or negatively impacting the privacy of subscribers, the RAN or the core network.

An attacker may use a malicious Y1 consumer function to

- attain unauthorized access to the Near-RT RIC
- abuse radio network information
- exploit UE identification or otherwise impact the privacy of subscribers
In addition, an attacker may perform a man in the middle attack between a genuine Y1 consumer and the Near-RT RIC platform.

A malicious attacker may also use access to the Y1 interface to mount volumetric and non-volumetric DoS attacks on the Near-RT RIC in order to impact its overall performance.

All Y1 consumers shall be properly authenticated and authorized before access to the Y1 functions get enabled for them at least at the transport layer (for e.g., with mutual TLS and OAuth). All communication through the interface shall be confidentiality and integrity protected. Y1 consumers may be within a PLMN trusted domain. Y1 consumers located outside of the PLMN trusted domain should only be able to use the Y1 services via an exposure function acting as a Y1 Consumer, e.g. as specified in 3GPP TS 23.501, Clause 5.20 [i.33].

Additional security measures should be defined such as

- the Near-RT RIC should provide checking and validation of the data received
- the Near-RT RIC should implement ingress message rate limiting on its Y1 interface

## Key Issue #14: Malicious E2 Node

E2 Nodes communicate with the Near -RT RIC through the E2 interface. The Near -RT RIC uses the E2 interface to collect near real-time information and provide value added services. The Near-RT RIC Architecture specification [i.2] clause 8.1 provides further details on the E2 interface.

A malicious actor may use unauthorized access to E2 Nodes or the E2 interface to mount malicious attacks against the Near-RT RIC. A malicious actor may also abuse compromised E2 Nodes properly authenticating to the Near-RT RIC.

Altered and misleading data sent from a compromised E2 Node to the Near-RT RIC may cause the Near-RT RIC to draw erroneous conclusions on the RANs status which may impact the normal performance of the RAN. An attacker may also obtain information on the status of the RAN and details on the UEs.

A malicious attacker may also use access to the E2 interface to mount volumetric and non-volumetric DoS attacks on the Near-RT RIC in order to impact its overall performance.

Security protections are defined for the E2 interface as explained in clause 6.9 of the present document.

Additional security measures should be defined such as

- the Near-RT RIC should provide checking and validation of the data received
- the Near-RT RIC should implement ingress message rate limiting on its E2 interface termination

# Mitigations and Solutions

## Solution #1: Secure onboarding and deployment of xApps in Near-RT RIC

### Solution details

Onboarding to the SMO is the first step of the xApp life cycle. This solution details the flow from the xApp solution provider to the SMO in Figure 6.2-1.

- Solution provider digitally signs the xApp and sends to the Service Provider.
- The Service Provider validates the digital signature for code integrity, performs a schema check and any operational testing, and then adds their signature to the package.
- The xApp is published into the catalogue for visibility by the SMO.
The next step of the xApp life cycle is deployment on the Near-RT RIC, which starts with a request to the SMO from the NF Install Project Manager to deploy new xApps on the RIC, per [i.23]. The SMO maps the RIC variables and instructs the O-Cloud DMS to create the xAPP Deployment and allocate the resources necessary on the Near-RT RIC O-Cloud. The DMS notifies the SMO that the xAPP Deployment has been created and the DMS assigns a Deployment ID which the SMO uses to update its xApp inventory. At the end of the deployment process, the xApp starts the registration process with the Near-RT RIC by sending a registration request to Near-RT RIC Management Services function, per [i.3].

This solution proposes a security validation request sent from the Management Services to the Security Function in the Near-RT RIC, as shown in Figure 6.2-2.

Once the xApp is deployed and has sent a registration request to Management Services:

- In the Near-RT RIC, a xApp validation request is sent from Management Services to the Security Function.
- The Security Function performs the following checks:
- Validate the signature of the Service Provider. Confirm the signing Service Provider is the trusted Service Provider. This proves that the valid Service Provider approved the xApp, and that the xApp has not been modified since it was approved for use by the Service Provider.
> NOTE:	Consideration on different security validation processes for 3rd party xApps, as compared to xApps from the Near-RT RIC platform provider, is FFS after the impacts of all key issues and solutions have been studied.
- Validate signature of the xApp Solution Provider. Confirm that the signing xApp Solution Provider is a member of a trusted list of providers. This proves that the xApp came from a trusted provider and has not been modified since the Solution Provider released it.
- Verify that neither the Service Provider nor Solution Provider certificates are revoked. This ensures that nothing has changed to imply either signature can no longer be trusted.
- A security validation response is sent back to Management Services, who can then continue with the xApp registration process if the checks are successful.
In the context of WG3 Near-RT RIC Architecture specification [i.3], this solution would be added to Figure 9.3.1-1 to fill in details of the authentication and validity checks during registration processing.

### Evaluation

By requiring a secure onboarding process with authentication for all xApps, this solution addresses key issues #1, #2, #8.

## Solution #2: Security management of risks in open-source components of Near-RT RIC architecture

Recommended Security best practices to manage open-source software risks are listed in clause 6.3.1

Maintain open-source Near-RT RIC components and xApps Inventory

- Recommended to have Software Composition Analysis tooling to automatically scan and identify all open-source components, version(s) in use, all package dependencies, libraries, and create an accurate bill of materials (BOM), checks for policy and license compliance, security risks, protect against threats to intellectual property (IP) and version updates.
Track and analyse open-source Near-RT RIC components and xApps vulnerabilities

- Track known vulnerabilities against the inventory of open-source software and libraries.
- Run automated static application security testing to identify known vulnerabilities in open-source software components.
- Create SBOM to facilitate identification of a potential vulnerability in the software product when a CVD is released for an open-source binary, library, or package.
- Perform frequent scanning for known vulnerability or misconfiguration on open-source container image during build phase, within the registry, before deployment and during run time. Recommended to use automated tools integrated into the CI/CD pipeline.
- Perform dynamic application security testing (DAST) which can be tuned and trained to detect run-time vulnerabilities.
- Continuously monitor open-source workload during runtime for any security risks and vulnerabilities.
- Conduct Penetration testing to identify and resolve critical security defects.
Remediate open-source vulnerabilities

Software vulnerabilities fall into three categories: publicly known with a patch available for the software; publicly known without a patch (n-day); and not publicly known (0-day). Although measures should be taken to mitigate the risk of n-day and 0-day vulnerabilities, patching publicly known vulnerabilities as quickly as possible significantly reduces the risk of exploitation.

- Patch critical vulnerabilities in the operational environment within [policy defined, suggested: < 15] days and other vulnerabilities within [policy-defined, suggested: <60] days.
- Refer to [i.30]
- Refer to [i.28]
Continuously monitor for new open-source risks

- Perform frequent scanning for known vulnerabilities during run time.
- Enable security audit logs for monitoring security events.
- Dynamic application security testing (DAST) which can be tuned and trained to detect run-time vulnerabilities.
Secure Software development practice

Security Best practices based on openssf secure software development practices

- The project MUST have at least one primary developer who knows how to design secure software.
- At least one of the project’s primary developers MUST know of common kinds of errors that lead to vulnerabilities in this kind of software, as well as at least one method to counter or mitigate each of them.
- Use basic good cryptographic practices:
- The software produced by the project MUST use, by default, only cryptographic protocols and algorithms that are publicly published and reviewed by experts (if cryptographic protocols and algorithms are used).
- If the software produced by the project is an application or library, and its primary purpose is not to implement cryptography, then it SHOULD only call on software specifically designed to implement cryptographic functions; it SHOULD NOT re-implement its own.
- All functionality in the software produced by the project that depends on cryptography MUST be implementable using FLOSS.
- The default security mechanisms within the software produced by the project MUST NOT depend on broken cryptographic algorithms (e.g., MD4, MD5, single DES, RC4, Dual_EC_DRBG), or use cipher modes that are inappropriate to the context, unless they are necessary to implement an interoperable protocol (where the protocol implemented is the most recent version of that standard broadly supported by the network ecosystem, that ecosystem requires the use of such an algorithm or mode, and that ecosystem does not offer any more secure alternative). The documentation MUST describe any relevant security risks and any known mitigations if these broken algorithms or modes are necessary for an interoperable protocol.
- The default security mechanisms within the software produced by the project SHOULD NOT depend on cryptographic algorithms or modes with known serious weaknesses (e.g., the SHA-1 cryptographic hash algorithm or the CBC mode in SSH).
- The security mechanisms within the software produced by the project SHOULD implement perfect forward secrecy for key agreement protocols so a session key derived from a set of long-term keys cannot be compromised if one of the long-term keys is compromised in the future.
- If the software produced by the project causes the storing of passwords for authentication of external users, the passwords MUST be stored as iterated hashes with a per-user salt by using a key stretching (iterated) algorithm (e.g., Argon2id, Bcrypt, Scrypt, or PBKDF2).
- The security mechanisms within the software produced by the project MUST generate all cryptographic keys and nonces using a cryptographically secure random number generator and MUST NOT do so using generators that are cryptographically insecure.
- Secured delivery against man-in-the-middle (MITM) attacks
- The project MUST use a delivery mechanism that counters MITM attacks. Using https or ssh+scp is acceptable.
- A cryptographic hash (e.g., a sha1sum) MUST NOT be retrieved over http and used without checking for a cryptographic signature.
- Publicly known vulnerabilities fixed
- There MUST be no unpatched vulnerabilities of medium or higher severity that have been publicly known for more than 60 days.
- Projects SHOULD fix all critical vulnerabilities rapidly after they are reported.
- Static code analysis
- At least one static code analysis tool (beyond compiler warnings and“"saf”" language modes) MUST be applied to any proposed major production release of the software before its release, if there is at least one FLOSS tool that implements this criterion in the selected language.
- It is SUGGESTED that at least one of the static analysis tools used for the static_analysis criterion include rules or approaches to look for common vulnerabilities in the analyzed language or environment.
- All medium and higher severity exploitable vulnerabilities discovered with static code analysis MUST be fixed in a timely way after they are confirmed.
- It is SUGGESTED that static source code analysis occur on every commit or at least daily.
- Dynamic code analysis
- It is SUGGESTED that at least one dynamic analysis tool be applied to any proposed major production release of the software before its release.
- All medium and higher severity exploitable vulnerabilities discovered with dynamic code analysis MUST be fixed in a timely way after they are confirmed.
Refer to open-source software best practices: [i.27], [i.42], [i.43] and [i.44].

Recommended open-source best practices mitigates Near-RT RIC components and xApps open-source Risks. This solution addresses key issues #1, #2, #5, #6, #8.

## Solution #3: Authentication schema for APIs

#### mTLS authentication

In mTLS both the client (e.g, xApp as API consumer) and the server (e.g, platform as API producer) require a certificate, and both sides authenticate each other using their public/private key pair. The authentication process includes the following steps:

- the client connects to server and requests access
- the server presents a server certificate
- the client verifies the server certificate
- the client presents a client certificate
- the server verifies the client certificate
- the server grants access
- client and server can exchange information over encrypted TLS connection

#### Application layer client authentication

The purpose of the solution is to perform an additional consumer authentication at application layer by the platform, which acts as authorization server and producer. The process is as follows:

- The API consumer (e.g, xApp) shall attach a signed token in the service request towards the receiving end point, i.e, authorization server, producer.
- The signed token includes the consumer instance ID (e.g, xApp ID), that can be checked against the certificate by the producer
- The signed token includes a timestamp as basis for restriction of its lifetime. It could be even one per service request, this is up to the configuration.

#### IPsec authentication

Please refer to O-RAN Security Protocols Specification [i.19], chapter 2.5 for supported IPsec capabilities in O-RAN.

In summary, the following options for IPSec authentication have been specified in [i.19]:

- Data origin authentication, always enabled
- ESP authentication transforms
- IKE endpoint Identification
- X.509v3 digital certificates provided by a Certificate Authority solution shall be supported
- Pre-shared Keys may be supported
- Key exchange shall be supported via IKEv2, profile as described in [i.21].
The proposed authentication schema addresses the key issues #1, #2, #4, #5, #6, #7, #8, #9, #10, #11

> NOTE:	The authentication mechanisms described in the solution may be applicable to other O-RAN parts of the architecture.

## Solution #4: Authorization framework for APIs

The roles defined in OAuth 2.0 has been assigned as follows:

- Resource owner / Resource server (producer): Near-RT RIC platform modules providing services via APIs.
- Client (consumer): xApp
> NOTE:	xApp as API producer is FFS in current RIC Architecture specification.
- Authorization server: Security function in Near-RT RIC platform
Grants shall be of the type Client Credentials Grant, as described in clause 4.4 of RFC 6749 [i.11], and represented in the following diagram:

3GPP SBA specifies in [i.13] that access tokens shall be JSON Web Tokens as described in RFC 7519 [i.18], and are secured with digital signatures or Message Authentication Cores (MAC) based on JSON Web Signature (JWS) as described in RFC 7515 [i.18]. ETSI MEC can also use JWT, that may include scopes of roles to restrict the access to MEC services. They may be signed to become tamper proof and encrypted. In general, the use of JWTs as access tokens in Near-RT RIC will depend on the final specification for network API solutions by O-RAN WG3.

The authorization process entails two verifications:

- Check whether the consumer is permitted to discover the requested Near-RT RIC API via the Enablement Discovery API during the discovery procedure. This is performed on per consumer granularity by the authorization server
- Check whether the consumer is permitted to access the requested service producer for consuming the service (e.g. SDL fetch data), on a per request type and corresponding subscription. The granularity is determined by the service logic of the producer.
Management module of Near-RT RIC platform maintains the information of available producers and their supported services, as each of them needs to register the list of services it supports.

The following schema represents the main steps of the entire authorization process:

The overall OAuth 2.0 process is foreseen to take place after xApp registration and API discovery procedures specified in Near-RT RIC. The main steps would be:

- Registration procedure in Management service of Near-RT RIC platform
- xApp registration
> NOTE 1:	Solution #1 adds a security validation feature in this process.
> NOTE 2:	During the proposed registration/validation process the platform may check whether the xApp is provided by 3rd party or is RIC-owned application.
- APIs registration by the producer via Enablement API
- Enablement API related procedures
- Discovery
- Basic: Static restriction based on the registration information in database
- Optional: Protection of Discovery services by OAuth 2.0, e.g. in case of 3rd party xApps
- OAuth 2.0 based authorization
- Services offered by the Near-RT RIC platform are described in the scope of the access token provided to the xApp, required to use the specified APIs.
The proposed authorization framework addresses the key issues #1, #2, #4, #5, #6, #7, #8, #9, #10, #11

> NOTE:	The authorization mechanisms described in the solution may be applicable to other O-RAN parts of the architecture.

## Solution #5: Near-RT RIC database and SDL access control mechanisms

The solution is comprised of separate steps during the Onboarding to SMO process and during the SDL Registration process. RBAC roles are assigned during the onboarding process where privileges are defined by the xApp Solution Provider by a xApp database “token” and vetted by the Service Provider. The token needs granularity for data and operations in order to control access.

As part of the xApp onboarding to SMO process:

The xApp Solution Provider generates a database “token” that declares what kind of database access and operations the xApp would need. This is sent to the Service Provider along with the xApp.

The Service Provider vets the proposed database access and operations during xApp validation by agreeing to the access rights requested by the xApp.

The database “token” is passed to the SMO when the xApp is onboarded.

Before accessing the database, the xApp must register with the SDL using the SDL Client Registration procedure. This solution adds in an access authorization step before the xApp is allowed to register with the SDL. The Security Function uses the xApp database token to identify which roles the xApp is authorized for.

- The xApp sends SDL Client Registration request to the SDL to access the database in the Near-RT RIC Platform.
- After the receipt of the request, the SDL sends a client authorization request to the Security Function.
- The Security Function performs access authorization for the xApp by comparing the database “token” from the xApp with the one validated by the Service Provider. After verification, the security function will assign the xApp a role based on the token.
- The Security Function sends a client authorization response to SDL.
- SDL arranges with the database the permission for the xApp to access the database (if authentication is successful).
- The SDL sends the response of successful or failed registration to the xApp.
This solution addresses key issue #7 Data protection and privacy in Near-RT RIC Database(s), and key issues #4, #5, #6.

## Solution #6: Security Logging (part of FCAPS)

> NOTE: 	Security Logging will be tackled in dedicated Work Item study to Security Log Management within O-RAN Security Work Group (WG11).
Void

Void

## Solution #7: Access control mechanism for API repository/registry

API authentication (mutual TLS) and authorization (OAuth 2.0) mechanisms, providing the necessary access control to API Enablement function, are described in solutions #3 and #4 of the present document respectively.

Secure onboarding and deployment procedure of xApps in Near-RT RIC, considers the level of trust related to the xApp by ensuring that the xApp comes from a valid solution provider and is integrity protected.  The solution is described in solution #1 of the present document.

Solutions #1, #3 and #4 of the present address the security requirements related to API Enablement function coming from the Near-RT RIC architecture [i.3] in clauses 5.1.3 and 6.2.8, specifically related to access control and considerations around the level of trust of xApps.  Key issues #4, #7, #8, #10 and #11 are addressed by the solution.

## Solution #8: Secure mechanisms for E2 interface

Refer to O-RAN.WG11.O-RAN-Security-Requirements-Specifications [i.2], clause 5.2.4.

> NOTE: 	Authorization solutions to access E2 nodes and associated services by xApps are for further study. Security mechanisms for E2 interface address key issues #3, #5 and #10.

## Solution #9: Secure mechanisms for A1 interface

The solution addresses key issues #9 and #6

## Solution #10: Secure mechanisms for O1 interface

Refer to O-RAN.WG11.O-RAN-Security-Requirements-Specifications [i.2], clause 5.2.2.

> NOTE: 	xApps are managed via Near-RT RIC, not directly by SMO. Adequacy of existing security mechanisms specified for O1 in management of xApps is for further study. Key issue #4 is addressed by O1 security mechanisms.

## Solution #11: Mitigation for conflicting xApps

This solution proposes to make the first procedure, Conflict Mitigation guidance initiated by an authorized xApp, mandatory during the E2 Subscription procedure, which is performed at the end of xApp Registration. The E2 Subscription procedure is detailed in [i.3] in clause 9.3.2.1, with the xApp initiated E2 Guidance Request procedure described in clause 9.3.3.1 [i.3].

Performing this guidance request during xApp Registration would mitigate conflicts arising from newly deployed xApps. Additional consideration is needed for conflicts arising after deployment, once additional Conflict Mitigation messages and procedures are defined in WG3.

The solution addresses key issue #3.

## Solution #12: A1 Policy authentication

For a malicious A1 policy to successfully affect the Near-RT RIC, the policy first must contain a valid policy type supported by the Near-RT RIC, in order to pass the policy type check at the A1 Termination in the Near-RT RIC. The policy must then be mapped to an xApp in the Near-RT RIC. Finally, to exploit an xApp for malicious intent as described in Key Issue 9, the A1 policy needs to have capabilities to execute any of the security threats outlined. The access and knowledge required to complete this sequence of events implies a skilled adversary.

Securing the endpoints of the A1 interface is another factor in preventing xApp exploitation by malicious A1 policies. This work item (WG3Sec) in WG11 addresses the Near-RT RIC side of the A1 interface. On the other end, the requirements and security controls for the SMO are FFS for the WG11 Security Requirements specification, but there is a newly started work item (SecureNonRTRIC) to secure the Non-RT RIC in the SMO. This new work item will address the security and data privacy of the Non-RT RIC, A1 interface, R1 interface, and external interfaces.

With the A1 interface itself secured, security of the A1 interface endpoints in progress, A1 related APIs security in progress for authentication and authorization, and the challenges of generating a malicious policy, the likelihood of xApp exploitation via malicious A1 policies is judged to be very low. Further examination of this issue should be performed upon completion of the relevant WG11 work items, but at the moment, no additional A1 policy authentication is deemed necessary.

This solution describes the protections against the security threats in key issue #9.

## Solution #13: Network Security layer for APIs

TLS is proposed as a solution for transactional Near-RT RIC APIs based on HTTP or HTTP/2. REST APIs use HTTP and support Transport Layer Security (TLS). REST APIs utilizes JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) as encoding protocol. gRPC APIs use HTTP/2 and support as well TLS. In contrast with REST APIs, gRPC used Protobuf as encoding protocol. Please refer to O-RAN Security Protocols [i.19] for TLS 1.2, TLS 1.3 specifications.

IPSec is proposed as a preferred solution for time critical uni-streaming and bi-streaming E2 related APIs, which are based on SCTP. Please refer to O-RAN Security Protocols [i.19] for IPsec specifications.

DTLS is proposed as optional solution for time critical uni-streaming and bi-streaming E2 related APIs, which are based on SCTP. The solution is currently on hold due to limitation of packet size when DTLS is running over SCTP (refer to RFC 6083). Please refer to O-RAN Security Protocols [i.19] for DTLS specifications.

Network Security layer for APIs shall be consider as a basic requirement in Near-RT RIC architecture. The choice will depend on the selected network protocol stacks.

The solution addresses key issues #1, #2, #4, #5, #6, #7, #8, #9 and #10.

## Solution #14: Security procedure for xApp registration

The procedure begins with a secure session between the xApp and Near-RT RIC platform using TLS, which uses server- side certificate authentication. It is assumed that there is a pre-provisioning of necessary parameters for registration during the onboarding/deployment process of the xApp, to allow the latter to reach the Near-RT RIC platform, authenticate it, and present a registration credential (e.g., OAuth 2.0 access token, message digest, etc.) that can be verified by the Near-RT RIC platform.

> NOTE 2: 	The configuration of the initial pre-provisioned registration credentials in the xApp as part of the deployment process are left to operator implementation. O-Cloud DMS is referred as a possible entity in charge of the provisioning task.
With the secure session established, the xApp sends a registration request message to the Near-RT RIC platform (Management Function). The message carries the initial credential obtained during the pre-provisioning of the registration information, which may be an OAuth 2.0 access token. If OAuth 2.0 mechanism is used for initial credentials, it should be profiled as specified in [i.19]. Other type of credentials may also be used (e.g., message digest, pre-shared key)

Figure 6.15.2-1 details the security information flow for the security procedure. The OAuth 2.0 token-based authentication initial registration credential is shown in this example.

1. As a pre-requisite to the registration procedure, the xApp obtains information from a provisioning system (NFO in SMO) during the onboarding/deployment phase in the infrastructure. This information is used to authenticate and establish a secure TLS communication with the Near-RT RIC platform during the registration process. The information includes details of the Near-RT RIC platform (address, Root CA certificate) and includes an initial registration credential (the OAuth 2.0 Access token in the example).

2. The xApp and Near-RT RIC platform (e.g., Security function and/or Management function) establish a secure session based on TLS (server-side certificate authentication). The xApp uses the information obtained in step 1 to establish the TLS session.

> NOTE 1:	if TLS communication should be mandatory in the procedure is ffs.
> NOTE 2:	the termination point of the TLS communication in Near-RT RIC platform (e.g. Management Function, Security Function) is ffs.
3. The xApp generates the key pair, i.e., private key and public key

4. After successful establishment of the TLS session, the xApp instance sends a registration request message to the Near-RT RIC platform along with the pre-provisioned initial registration credential (OAuth 2.0 token in the example), and the xApp instance public key in corresponding CSR (Certificate Signing Request) message.

5. The Near-RT RIC platform (e.g., via Security function) should validate the initial registration credential and the Management Function of the platform should generate an xApp ID for that particular xApp instance. At the reception of the CSR message from the xApp, the Near-RT RIC platform (e.g., via Security function), acting as a Registration Authority (RA), should prove that the xApp instance is in possession of the private key, and if the proof of possession procedure is positive, it should embed the xApp ID in the CSR message to be forwarded to the Operator CA. The RA may use an enrolment protocol (e.g., CMPv2) to fetch the certificate from the CA

> NOTE 3:	Authentication mechanism between RA and CA are part of the operator PKI implementation.
6. Fetching the certificate (e.g., enrolment protocol such as CMPv2)

7. Operator CA issues a certificate, embedding the xApp ID in subjectAltName field. The issued certificate by the operator CA will be used by the xApp for subsequent authentication and authorization procedures between the xApp and the Near-RT RIC platform when services/resources are consumed by xApps via APIs.

8. The Near-RT RIC platform (Management Function) generates an xApp Managed Object Instance (MOI) as specified in [i.3], which may contain the mechanism for authentication (e.g., mTLS) and authorization (e.g., OAuth 2.0) between the xApp and the corresponding module of the Near-RT RIC platform.

9. The Near-RT RIC platform (Management Function) responds with a xApp registration response message. The response should include the assigned xApp ID, authentication and authorization mechanism if provided in step 5 and xApp certificate.

The solution proposes for the data type of the xApp ID a string that uniquely identifies the xApp instance. The format of this string should be a Universally Unique Identifier (UUID) version 4 (as described in IETF RFC 9562 [i.45])

The solution proposes that subjectAltName in the xApp instance certificate should contain a URI-ID with the URI for the xApp ID as an URN; this URI-ID should contain the xApp ID of the xApp instance using the UUID format as described in IETF RFC 9562 [i.45] (e.g., urn:uuid:f81d4fae-7dec-11d0-a765-00a0c91e6bf6)

The following diagram shows a proposal to insert the security procedure in the existing registration procedure specified in O-RAN.WG3.RICARCH, clause 9.1.4, where xApp ID is assigned:

## Solution #15: Security requirement proposals for Y1 interface

The following proposals for requirements have been derived from [i.31], clause 4.

- The Y1 interface shall provide mechanisms to authenticate the Y1 consumer and allow for the Y1 consumer to authenticate the Y1 provider (mutual authentication)
- The Y1 interface shall authorize the Y1 consumer before allowing access to any Y1 service
- The Y1 interface shall provide mechanisms to provide confidentiality and integrity protection for all data exchanged
- The Y1 interface shall provide replay- protection for all data exchanged
- The Y1 interface shall enforce the result of the authentication for the duration of communications (e.g. by integrity protection or implicit authentication by encryption with a key that is derived from the authentication and is unknown to the adversary).
- Y1T shall provide mechanisms to hide the topology of the PLMN trust domain from the Y1 consumers accessing the Y1 services from outside the PLMN trust domain
- Further security controls for the Near-RT-RIC that could be implemented as part of its Y1T include:
- Validate received values for validity and range
- Provide rate limiting on Y1 interface to prevent resource exhaustion and DoS
- Implement security logging for each of the above failure events
This solution addresses key issue #13 of the present document.

## Solution #16: Additional security measures for the E2 interface

- Validate received values for validity and range
- Provide rate limiting on E2 interface to prevent resource exhaustion and DoS
- Implement security logging for each of the above failure events
The solution addresses key issue #14.

## Solution #17: Standard Identity management of xApp during xApp Registration Procedure.

The steps outlining the solution are elaborated below.

Step 1: Define the Actors and Roles in the xApp Registration Procedure and the Pre-requisite.

xApp Instance Pod: xApp Application, (optional) Certificate Side Car originator for certificate and key management.

SPIRE Agent: To oversee identity management and conduct workload verification within the system.

SPIRE Server in Near-RT RIC platform: handles the registration-related message from/to xApp. A central component responsible for managing identities and issuing identity credentials.

Pre-requisites: As a pre-requisite, the xApp Instance Node should have the information details of the Near-RT RIC platform (IP address, Trust anchors) from the provisioning system.

Step 2:  Node Attestation: SPIRE Agent and SPIRE Server Secured channel establishment.

- SPIRE Agent initiates the mTLS with the SPIRE Server for its attestation. SPIRE Agent uses the Node certificates in this step which can be Kubernetes issued or Operator signed certificates. Step 2.ii to 2.iv details the procedures for Nodes Certificates signed by Operator CA.
- SPIRE Server responds back to SPIRE Agent with its own certificate and chain.
- The SPIRE Agent verifies the SPIRE server certificate and responds back with its own node certificate.
- The x509pop node attestor plugin at the SPIRE Server verifies that the certificate is rooted to a trusted set of CAs and verifies that node is in possession of private key.  The TLS connection gets successfully established.
- In case of Kubernetes issued certificates the additional steps from 2.vi to 2.ix should be followed.
- SPIRE Server shall generate a CSR on behalf of the SPIRE Agent and send to the Operator CA for signing.
- The Operator CA signs the CSR and sends the SVID [X.509 certificate with SPIFFE ID in the SAN field] to the SPIRE Server.
- The SPIRE Server sends the TRUST Bundle to the SPIRE Agent over the existing mTLS connection.
- The SPIRE Agent will re-establish the mTLS connection with the newly received SVID.
> NOTE 1:	Steps 2.i to 2.iv are for Node Attestation using Node certificates signed by Operator CA. Step 2.v to 2.ix are for Node Attestation using Kubernetes issued Certificates. In such cases Kubernetes CA certificates are pre-configured in the SPIRE server.
Step3:  Registration entries of Workload in SPIRE Server: As mentioned in clause 6.2.2, the SMO maps the RIC variables and instructs the O-Cloud DMS to create the xApp Deployment and allocate the resources necessary on the Near-RT RIC. As a part of this procedure, the SMO should send the xApp Registration entries [Management Descriptor] via its O1 interface to the Near-RT RIC. It would map a structured SPIFFE ID to each xApp Instance and facilitate the Near-RT RIC to identify the xApp being deployed and manage its life cycle.

> NOTE 2: 	Also the SPIRE Server’s Registration API could be exposed to SMO for the SPIRE Server to obtain the workload Registration entries.
> NOTE: EXAMPLE: 	Registration Entries of two xApp Instances

| Registration Entries |  |
| --- | --- |
| SPIFFE ID | Name=xAppDescriptor |
| spiffe://domain-name/clusterName/namespace/xAppName-1 | xApp name-1, vendor, software version, containers, pod- label(label1), and any Operator customized Kubernetes deployment information. |
| spiffe://domain-name/clusterName/namespace/xAppName-2 | xApp name-2, vendor, software version, containers, pod- label(label2), and any Operator customized Kubernetes deployment information. |

Step 4: Registration Entries in Agent for SVID Issuance: SPIRE Server sends the workload (xApp) Registration entry details to the SPIRE agents registered on it.

Step 5: Workload Attestation: Workload xApp Instance is instantiated. Also, an optional component of side-car container can be instantiated to handle the certificate and key management of xApp Instance which offloads the xApp Instance for security related functions.

- The xApp Instance Pod communicates with the SPIRE Agent over a unix domain socket-based communication.
- The SPIRE Agent utilizes a combination of kernel and user space calls to gather supplementary information about the workload. The SPIRE Agent interrogates the node’s kernel to identify the process ID of the caller. It then invokes any configured workload attestor plugins, providing them with the process ID of the workload. This process involves identifying the workload's pod ID through its cgroup association and subsequently obtaining information about the pod.
- The agent introspects a workload to determine its properties, based on a set of selectors associated with it.
- SPIRE Agent ascertains the identity of the workload by cross-referencing the discovered workload selectors with the Registration entries.
Step 6. Generate CSR: On successful validation in step 5, the SPIRE Agent will generate the CSR and private key for each workload (xApp). The CSRs will have the SPIFFE ID in the SAN field. The SPIFFE agent derives the SPIFFE ID from the Registration entries in Step 4 which uniquely identifies each xApp instance.

Step 7. SPIRE Agent sends xApp CSRs to the SPIRE server.

Step 8. CSR Signing: SPIRE Server in turns sends the xApp CSRs to the Operator CA for signing.

Step 9. Operator PKI: The Operator CA provides xApp SVID to the SPIRE Server. SVID are X.509 certificates with SPIFFE ID in the SAN field.

Step 10. SPIRE Server sends xApp SVID [X.509 Certificates with SPIFFE ID] and trust bundle to the SPIRE Agent which it stores in memory for a short duration of time.

Step 11. Issuance of SVID: SPIRE Agent then provides the xApp SVID, trust bundle to the certificate sidecar.  The xApp Instance will then use the SVIDs for further communication like xApp Registration towards Near real-time RIC platform.

> NOTE:	The xApp instance would establish a secure session with the Near-RT RIC as per the Pre-requisites mentioned in Step 1.
Step 12: The xApp Instance sends Registration Request toward the Near-RT RIC platform over a secured TLS connection. The Near-RT RIC can validate the SAN field of the X.509 certificate of the xApp Instance against the Registration entries.

Step 13. On successful validation, the Near-RT RIC platform responds with xApp registration response message with the xApp ID.

Step 14. Optional: The Near-RT RIC informs SMO about the successful deployment of xApp.

The solution proposes that xApp ID use a structured ID format of SPIFFE ID which can be interpreted programmatically. The mechanism introduced does not rely on information from xApp to determine the xApp ID. Unix socket-based communication is used for process-to-process communication within the Node. Optional side-car container for key and certificate management reduces the attack surface on the Applications.

The following proposal uses a cloud native solution for service identity management of applications in a cloud native environment. This is in adherence to NIST 800-207A [i.41]. SPIRE is a production-ready implementation of SPIFFE APIs that uses Node and workload attestation to securely issue SVID [X.509 certificate with SPIFFE ID] to Applications which can be used for service-service communication. Using SPIRE Agent and SPIRE Server in an O-RAN environment, standardized identities can be provided to Applications like xApp. The SVID issued to xApp can be used to establish a secure connection with the Near-RT RIC platform and the xApp ID can be derived from the SAN field of the X.509 certificate.

The three open item in the proposal have been listed below:

- The RICARCH [i.3] does not currently describe the initial configuration of Registration entries via the O1 interface from the SMO. This procedure would need to be defined.
- The RICARCH [i.3] clause 9.4.1 assumes that the Near-RT RIC platform creates the xAppID. In this proposal, the Near-RT RIC is obtaining the xApp ID from SMO via Registration entries. Another alternative would be to read the SAN field of the xApp Instance certificate.
- Handling of private keys in SPIRE Agent and SPIRE Server as an alternative to in-memory and disk-based.

# Conclusions

## Key Issue Solution Mapping

This document currently contains 14 key issues and 17 solutions proposals to address or reduce the risk associated with the key issues. A mapping of the solutions to the key issues is shown here.

| Key issue | Sol # 1 | Sol #2 | Sol #3 | Sol #4 | Sol #5 | Sol #6 | Sol #7 | Sol #8 | Sol #9 | Sol #10 | Sol #11 | Sol #12 | Sol #13 | Sol #14 | Sol #15 | Sol #16 | Sol #17 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| KI 1: Malicious xApps | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| KI 2: Compromised xApp | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| KI 3: Conflicting xApps |  | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| KI 4: Compromise of xApp isolation |  | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| KI 5: Compromise of ML data pipelines |  | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| KI 6: Altering ML training models |  | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| KI 7: Database protection and privacy |  | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| KI 8: Untrusted xApps | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| KI 9: Malicious A1 policies |  | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| KI 10: RIC API authentication security |  | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| KI 11: RIC API authorization security |  | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| KI 12: xAppID abuse |  | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| KI 13: Malicious Y1 Consumer |  | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| KI 14: Malicious E2 Node |  | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |

# Recommendations

The following key issues have been agreed as contributions in O-RAN Threat Model v.03.00:

- Key issue #1: Malicious xApps deployed on the Near-RT RIC
- Key issue #10: Near-RT RIC APIs authentication
- Key issue #11: Near-RT RIC APIs authorization
The following solutions have been agreed as contributions in O-RAN Security Requirement Specification v3.0:

- Solution #1: Secure onboarding and deployment of xApps in Near-RT RIC
- Solution #3: Authentication schema for APIs
- Solution #4: Authorization framework for APIs


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG11.TR.Threat-Modeling.0-R004-v07.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG11.TR.Threat-Modeling.0-R004-v07.00"
---

#### 7.4.1.12 Threats against E2 interface

E2 is a logical interface connecting the Near-RT RIC with an E2 Node as defined in [i.25]. The E2 functions are grouped into the following categories:

- Near-RT RIC Services
- Near-RT RIC support functions

| Threat ID | T-E2-01 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Untrusted Near-RT-RIC and/or E2 Nodes |
| Threat description | A malicious E2 Node communicates with a Near-RT RIC over the E2 interface, or a malicious Near-RT RIC communicates with an E2 Node over the E2 interface, due to weak mutual authentication. |
| Threat Type | Spoofing |
| Vulnerabilities | Weak mutual authentication |
| Impact Type | Authenticity |
| Affected Assets | E2 interface, including protocol stack [ASSET-C-40] |

| Threat ID | T-E2-02 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Malicious actor monitors messaging across E2 interface |
| Threat description | Threat actor can gain access to the messaging across the E2 interface for a MiTM attack to read messages. |
| Threat Type | Information disclosure |
| Vulnerabilities | Missing or weak confidentiality protection |
| Impact Type | Confidentiality |
| Affected Assets | E2 interface, including protocol stack [ASSET-C-40] |

| Threat ID | T-E2-03 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Malicious actor modifies messaging across E2 interface |
| Threat description | Threat actor can gain access to the messaging across the E2 interface for a MiTM attack to modify or inject messages.  This can result in the Near-RT RIC and/or the E2 Nodes receiving malicious messages. |
| Threat Type | Tampering |
| Vulnerabilities | Lack of integrity verification |
| Impact Type | Integrity |
| Affected Assets | E2 interface, including protocol stack [ASSET-C-40] |

#### 7.4.1.13 Threats against Y1 interface

The Near-RT RIC provides RAN analytics information (RAI) services via Y1 service interface. These services can be consumed by Y1 consumers by subscribing to or requesting the RAN analytics information via the Y1 service interface. Y1 consumers may be Application Functions (AFs) which are within an O-RAN trusted domain. AFs outside the O-RAN trusted domain may use Y1 services, too. Further details are available in the O-RAN Architecture Description [i.6], clauses 5.1 and 5.4.18.

Malicious Y1 consumers may use their access through the Y1 interface with the intent of accessing, manipulating or negatively impacting the privacy of subscribers, the RAN or the core network.

| Threat ID | T-Y1-01 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Untrusted Near-RT-RIC and Y1 consumers |
| Threat description | A Malicious Y1 consumer communicates with a Near-RT-RIC over the Y1 interface, or a malicious Near-RT-RIC communicates with a Y1 consumer over the Y1 interface, due to weak mutual authentication. |
| Threat Type | Spoofing |
| Vulnerabilities | Weak mutual authentication |
| Impact Type | Authenticity |
| Affected Assets | Y1 interface, including protocol stack [ASSET-C-42] |

| Threat ID | T-Y1-02 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Malicious actor monitors messaging across Y1 interface |
| Threat description | Threat actor can gain access to the messaging across the Y1 interface for a MiTM attack to read messages. |
| Threat Type | Information disclosure |
| Vulnerabilities | Missing or weak confidentiality protection |
| Impact Type | Confidentiality |
| Affected Assets | Y1 interface, including protocol stack [ASSET-C-42] |

| Threat ID | T-Y1-03 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Malicious actor modifies messaging across Y1 interface |
| Threat description | Threat actor can gain access to the messaging across the Y1 interface for a MiTM attack to modify or inject messages.  This can result in the Near-RT RIC and/or the Y1 consumers receiving malicious messages. |
| Threat Type | Tampering |
| Vulnerabilities | Lack of integrity verification |
| Impact Type | Integrity |
| Affected Assets | Y1 interface, including protocol stack [ASSET-C-42] |

### Threats against O-CLOUD

Virtualization and containerization technologies in O-RAN introduce the following relevant threats:

#### Generic Threats

| Threat ID | T-GEN-01A |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Software flaw attack enables unauthorized access and privilege escalation |
| Threat description | Code of host OS, Hypervisor/Container Engine and VNF/CNF can include flaws that an attacker can exploit. O-RAN software components rely on opensource software, opensource libraries, 3rd party components. Vulnerability in any of these software components likely to allow attacker to exploit O-CLOUD environment. This could lead attacker to carry out to malicious activities, such as: Compromise of the underlying VM/Container Exploit host access via Escape to Host Take advantage of weak identity and access management policies to attempt to elevate privileges  These actions can lead to impersonation of legitimate components or users, and escalation of control beyond intended privileges. |
| Threat type | Spoofing, Elevation of Privilege |
| Vulnerabilities | Use of software with known vulnerabilities Weak isolation mechanisms between containers/VMs Unverified software packages or lack of code signing Inadequate security hardening |
| Impact type | Authenticity, Authorization |
| Affected Asset | Host OS, Hypervisor/Container Engine and VNFs/CNFs (Near RT RIC, O-CU, O-DU) |

| Threat ID | T-GEN-01B |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Software flaw attack enables tampering and information disclosure |
| Threat description | Code of host OS, Hypervisor/Container Engine and VNF/CNF can include flaws that an attacker can exploit. O-RAN software components rely on opensource software, opensource libraries, 3rd party components. Vulnerability in any of these software components likely to allow attacker to exploit O-CLOUD environment. This could lead attacker to carry out to malicious activities, such as: Execute adversary-controlled code Tamper with system data and software components Intercept sensitive information within virtualized environments Move from virtual environments to the host to compromise confidentiality and integrity  Such exploitation can lead to unauthorized code modification and information exposure within the O-Cloud infrastructure. |
| Threat type | Tampering, Information Disclosure |
| Vulnerabilities | Use of software with known vulnerabilities Weak isolation mechanisms between containers/VMs Unverified software packages or lack of code signing Inadequate security hardening |
| Impact type | Integrity, Confidentiality |
| Affected Asset | Host OS, Hypervisor/Container Engine and VNFs/CNFs (Near RT RIC, O-CU, O-DU) |

| Threat ID | T-GEN-02A |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Unauthorized use of valid credentials to access O-Cloud services |
| Threat description | Adversaries may obtain and abuse credentials of existing accounts as a means of gaining unauthorized access. This can occur through credential phishing, pharming, or by stealing credentials after compromising the network. Compromised credentials may be used to bypass access controls placed on various resources on O-Cloud. Compromised credentials may also grant an adversary increased privilege to specific O-Cloud services or access to restricted areas of the O-Cloud network. |
| Threat type | Spoofing, Elevation of Privilege |
| Vulnerabilities | Weak or improperly managed credentials Lack of multifactor authentication Inadequate account activity monitoring Insecure credential storage |
| Impact type | Authenticity, Authorization |
| Affected Asset | Host OS, Hypervisor/Container Engine and VNFs/CNFs (Near RT RIC, O-CU, O-DU) |

| Threat ID | T-GEN-02B |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Tampering and data exposure via malicious use of exposed or unauthenticated services |
| Threat description | Attackers may abuse exposed services that are accessible without proper authentication or authorization. In O-Cloud environments, this includes unauthenticated access to services like Docker API, Kubernetes API server, kubelet, or web dashboards. Using these access points, attackers can tamper with configurations, modify workloads, or extract sensitive information stored or processed in the environment. |
| Threat type | Tampering, Information Disclosure |
| Vulnerabilities | Unauthenticated access to exposed APIs Poor segmentation or network exposure of internal services |
| Impact type | Integrity, Confidentiality |
| Affected Asset | Host OS, Hypervisor/Container Engine and VNFs/CNFs (Near RT RIC, O-CU, O-DU) |

| Threat ID | T-GEN-03 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Untrust binding between the different O-Cloud layers |
| Threat description | One major challenge in virtualized architectures and especially in O-Cloud is to prove that a particular VM/Container runs on top of a specific Hypervisor/Container Engine. More specifically, it is necessary to assure that a trusted VM/Container is executed on a particular trusted Hypervisor/Container Engine, whereas the Hypervisor/Container Engine's trust state relies on an attestation that considers the entire corresponding hard and software stack. More precisely, this includes all hardware chips, firmware, OS and Hypervisor/Container Engine components that are relevant for the Hypervisor/Container Engine's trust state determination. If it is not possible to establish a correlation between VM/Container and Hypervisor/Container Engine, an attacker is able to make use of a trusted VM/Container that runs on top of an untrusted Hypervisor/Container Engine and it would be impossible to detect any interference made by the malicious Hypervisor/Container Engine, e.g. intercepting communication, replacing strong or using weak cryptographic keys, etc. Similarly, trustworthiness in the service-layer might only be established if there is a mechanism to determine that only trusted VNFs/CNFs, w.r.t trusted VM/Container's, are running on specific trusted Hypervisors/Container Engines that are part of the service-provisioning-chain. |
| Threat type | Tampering, Information disclosure |
| Vulnerabilities | Absence of hardware root of trust or secure boot enforcement across the software stack Unverified or unauthenticated deployment of virtualized components |
| Impact type | Integrity, Confidentiality |
| Affected Asset | Host OS, Hypervisor/Container Engine and VNFs/CNFs (Near RT RIC, O-CU, O-DU) |

| Threat ID | T-GEN-04 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Lack of Authentication & Authorization in interfaces between O-Cloud components |
| Threat description | O-Cloud deploys CNF applications as containers in a cluster of physical nodes which may be spanned across geographical locations. Owing to the Service Based Architecture of CNFs, this introduces several service endpoints communicating across each other over the network (container to container, container to cloud infrastructure component) and it is fairly difficult to distinguish between a service terminating an external interface and a service exposing only an internal interface. Multi-tenant deployments and deployments in public cloud also require the CNF applications to run alongside unknown entities. In such deployment scenarios, CNF service endpoints with no authentication/weak authentication expose risk of attack that can impact the availability of service and the CNF. Lack of proper authentication in interfaces exposed by CNF services, introduces threats of lateral movement where a compromised container/rogue container   can compromise the availability of internal service by bringing down the internal service and perform lateral movement of attack by exploiting the availability of other such services can compromise the confidentiality of the internal service by extracting critical application data |
| Threat type | Information disclosure, Denial of Service |
| Vulnerabilities | Missing or weak authentication mechanisms No access control enforcement between tenants |
| Impact type | Availability, Confidentiality |
| Affected Asset | Host OS, Hypervisor/Container Engine and VNFs/CNFs (Near RT RIC, O-CU, O-DU) |

| Threat ID | T-GEN-05 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Exposure and misuse of unsecured credentials and keys |
| Threat description | Adversaries may search compromised O-RAN NFs, VL, orchestration layer or hardware to find and obtain insecurely stored credentials. These credentials can be stored and/or misplaced in many locations on the O-cloud platform, including plaintext files (e.g. Bash History), operating system or application-specific repositories (e.g. Credentials in Registry), or other specialized files/artifacts (e.g. Private Keys) [i.22]. Bash History: Adversaries may search the bash command history on compromised systems for insecurely stored credentials.  Credentials in registry: Adversaries may search the Registry on compromised systems for insecurely stored credentials.  Private Keys: Adversaries may search for private key certificate files on compromised systems for insecurely stored credentials. Private cryptographic keys and certificates are used for authentication, encryption/decryption, and digital signatures; Common key and certificate file extensions include: .key, .pgp, .gpg, .ppk., .p12, .pem, .pfx, .cer, .p7b, .asc. Tools exist to automate the discovery of such credentials, allowing adversaries to extract sensitive authentication material and access confidential data stored or processed in the O-RAN environment. |
| Threat type | Information disclosure, and Elevation of privilege |
| Vulnerabilities | Insecure storage of credentials and private keys Lack of access control |
| Impact type | Confidentiality, Authorization |
| Affected Asset | Private keys and credentials |

| Threat ID | T-GEN-06 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Sensitive application data cache exploitation |
| Threat description | Most of the applications use data that is sensitive in nature which needs to be secured. And it is common for these applications to cache such sensitive data, after retrieving the data from a secure storage. This caching occurs in various forms: within application memory, in persistent file systems, or in ephemeral file systems (For example, non-persistent container file system). For a VNF, the application can cache the sensitive data in its memory which is non-persistent (erased when the application ceases to exist) or in the persistent virtual machine file system. For a CNF, the application can store the sensitive data in its memory which is non-persistent (erased when the application/microservice ceases to exist) or in the non-persistent container file system, or in the persistent host file system, provided the application has the necessary privileges to access host file system. The sensitive data components that are cached by applications could be of different types which are used as authentication keys, session keys, passwords, tokens, etc. The storage of sensitive data in the application cache is used to improve performance of the applications and keeping the sensitive information readily available to the applications for faster initialization, re-initialization or recovery.  An example of faster recovery/re-initialization is a scenario where a TLS client establishes a TLS session with a server and stores the client certificate and corresponding private key in the application cache. If the TLS session is terminated unexpectedly (For example, due to network error conditions), the TLS client uses the cached client certificates and private key for recovering / re-establishing the TLS session, instead of retrieving the information from a more secure, but slower, storage solution. While leveraging application cache is indispensable for significant performance gains, it also presents a notable security risk [i.28], [i.29]. The sensitive data stored in application cache would be a primary target from attackers/threat actors [i.30], who can exploit this information to penetrate deeper into O-RAN network functions. To counter this threat, a “Defense in depth” approach is essential. This approach encompasses multiple security layers designed to mitigate risks associated with application caches, focusing on strong encryption, strict access management and anomaly detection to protect sensitive data effectively. |
| Threat type | Tampering, Information disclosure |
| Vulnerabilities | Lack of encryption for cached authentication/session data Insecure storage of cached data in ephemeral or persistent storage without secure deletion |
| Impact type | Integrity, Confidentiality |
| Affected Asset | Certificates, private keys, credentials and other application specific sensitive data |

#### Threats concerning VMs/Containers

| Threat ID | T-VM-C-01 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Abuse of a privileged VM/Container |
| Threat description | It’s possible to run VMs/Containers with unintended configurations. Such misconfigurations can help the adversaries to compromise even strongest of VM/Container isolation measures. Such misconfigurations scenarios include: A VMs/Containers can be configured to have more privileges than what is actually required (e.g. settings that give it unnecessary, and perhaps unplanned, privileges). For example, an attacker with access to such a container, can use it to gain higher privileges on host, perform un-authorized operations and get to anything that the host, or any of the containers running on that host, can reach. A VMs/Containers have unintended read/write access to a directory on host filesystem. This could allow an attacker to perform unauthorized modifications to the contents, create symbolic links to any directories or files not directly exposed by the hostPath, install SSH keys, read secrets mounted to the host, and take other malicious actions. |
| Threat type | Spoofing, Tampering, Information disclosure, Denial of Service and Elevation of privilege |
| Impact type | Authenticity, Integrity, Confidentiality, Availability and Authorization |
| Affected Asset | Host OS, Hypervisor/Container Engine and VNFs/CNFs (Near RT RIC, O-CU, O-DU) |

| Threat ID | T-VM-C-02 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | VM/Container escape attack |
| Threat description | VNF/CNF deployed on the same physical machine as tenants share the same host kernel and host OS resources. Lack of strong isolation between the VMs/Containers and the host allows for a potential risk of a rogue VM/Container escaping the VM/Container confinement and impacting other co-hosted VMs/Containers. In others, an attacker may deploy a new malicious VM/Container configured without network rules, user limitations, etc. to bypass existing defenses within O-Cloud infrastructure. Attacker deploys malicious VM/Container to escapes the host (Hypervisor/Container Engine/Host OS) and reaches the server’s hardware, then the malicious VM/Container can gain root access to the whole server where it resides. This gives the malicious VM/Container full control on all the VMs/Containers hosted on the same hacked server. This could allow an attacker to undermine the confidentiality, integrity and/or availability of VNFs/CNFs resources. Containers can be deployed by various means, such as via Docker's create and start APIs or via a web application such as the Kubernetes dashboard or Kubeflow. Adversaries may deploy containers based on retrieved or built malicious images or from benign images that download and execute malicious payloads at runtime. When a malicious VM/Container escapes isolation, it can gain full control over the underlying host and cause any of the below serious threats: Attacker would gain the ability to mount attacks on the host or compromise the host functionalities Compromise the confidentiality & integrity of co-hosted VMs/Containers and tenants Launch DDOS attacks on co-hosted VMs/Containers and host services thereby degrading their performance  Introduce new vulnerabilities in host to be used for future attacks Lack of network segmentation could potentially expose other VMs/Containers in the environment to attack. An example of this could be reconnaissance, exploitation and subsequent lateral movement to another host within the cluster. |
| Threat type | Spoofing, Tampering, Information disclosure, Denial of Service and Elevation of privilege |
| Impact type | Authenticity, Integrity, Confidentiality, Availability and Authorization |
| Affected Asset | Host OS, Hypervisor/Container Engine and VNFs/CNFs (Near RT RIC, O-CU, O-DU) |

| Threat ID | T-VM-C-03 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | VM/Container data theft |
| Threat description | The VNF/CNF remotely stores sensitive data (e.g. passwords, private keys, subscription data, logs) on the logical volume that the IMS/DMS allocates to the VNF/CNF. An attacker can retrieve/manipulate these data if they have been stored in an insecure way (e.g. clear text, unsalted hashes) or a malware is installed on the logical volume that the VIM allocates to the VNF/CNF. Container example: Adversaries may attempt to discover containers and other resources that are available locally within O-Cloud. Other resources may include images, deployments, pods, nodes, and other information such as the status of a cluster. These resources can be viewed within web applications such as the Kubernetes dashboard or can be queried via the Docker and Kubernetes APIs. In Docker, logs may leak information about the environment, such as the environment’s configuration, which services are available, and what cloud provider the victim may be utilizing. The discovery of these resources may inform an adversary’s next steps in the environment, such as how to perform lateral movement and which methods to utilize for execution. |
| Threat type | Tampering, Information disclosure |
| Impact type | Integrity, Confidentiality |
| Affected Asset | Images, environment’s configuration, and other information such as the status of a cluster |

| Threat ID | T-VM-C-04 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | VM/Container migration attacks |
| Threat description | The attacks that exploit VM/Container migration can be divided into two subcategories based on the target plane: Control Plane Attacks: These attacks target the module that is responsible for handling the migration process on a server which is called the migration module that is found in the host. By exploiting a bug in the migration module software, the attacker can hack the server and take full control over the migration module. This gives the attacker the ability to launch malicious activities including the following:  Migration Flooding: The attacker moves all the VMs/Containers that are hosted on the hacked server to a victim server that does not have enough resource capacity to host all the moved VMs/Containers. This causes a denial of service for the VNFs/CNFs running in the VMs/Containers of the victim server as there will not be enough resources to satisfy the demands of all the hosted VMs/Containers leading into VM/Container performance degradation and VM/Container crashes. False Resource Advertising: The hacked server claims that it has a large resource slack (a large amount of free resources). This attracts other servers to off-load some of their VMs/Containers to the hacked server so that the O-Cloud workload gets distributed over the O-Cloud servers. After moving VMs/Containers from other servers to the hacked server, the attacker can exploit other vulnerabilities to break into the offloaded VMs/Containers as now these VMs/Containers are placed on a server that is under the control of the attacker. Data Plane Attacks: These constitute the second type of VM/Container migration attacks and those attacks target the network links over which the VM/Container is moved from a server to another. Such data plane attacks include the MitM where an attacker sniffs the packets that are exchanged between the source and destination servers and reads the migrated memory pages. The attacker can monitor and/or modify the received packets while continuing to forward them to victim VM/Container resides so that the victim does not detect that any malicious activity is going on. |
| Threat type | Tampering, Information disclosure, Denial of Service |
| Impact type | Integrity, Confidentiality, Availability |
| Affected Asset | VNFs/CNFs (Near RT RIC, O-CU, O-DU) |

| Threat ID | T-VM-C-05 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Changing virtualization resource without authorization |
| Threat description | IMS/DMS which manage the Virtualization layer is responsible for assigning virtualized resource as requested. There are several ways to cause a DoS attack for the VNFs/CNFs:  If IMS/DMS are compromised or the O2 interface is not securely protected, an attacker who compromised the IMS/DMS or breached the O2 interface can change the virtualized resource used by a VNF/CNF by manipulating the allocation of virtualized resource. For example, when an instantiated VNF/CNF is running, adversaries having access to a compromised IMS/DMS or adversaries breaching the insecure O2 interface can misguide the Virtualization layer to reduce the resource of or delete a VM/Container on which a VNF/CNF is running. This can result in the reliability, availability or even illegal termination of a VNF/CNF and hence the denial of service. Hardware resource configuration and state information (e.g. events) exchange is performed through O2 interface. If the IMS is compromised or the O2 interface is not securely protected, an attacker who compromised the IMS or breached the O2 interface can tamper the hardware configuration and state information so that the virtualized resource supported by the hardware layer becomes unreliable. For example, adversaries having access to a compromised IMS or adversaries breaching the insecure O2 interface can misguide the O-Cloud platform to detach a hardware accelerator from a VNF/CNF. Adversaries having access to a compromised virtualization layer can change the virtualization resource used by the instantiated VNF/CNF without authorization,  A malicious VM/Container deployed for one instance of a VNF/CNF on a host can illegally occupy the resources of the instantiated VNF/CNF deployed on the same host, resulting in resource limitation of the instantiated VNF/CNF  In this type of attacks, the extra allocation of resources for the malicious VM/Container comes at the expense of the other VMs/Containers that share the same server as the malicious VM/Container, where these victim VMs/Containers get allocated less share of resources than what they should actually obtain, which in turn degrades their performance. |
| Threat type | Denial of Service |
| Impact type | Availability |
| Affected Asset | Host OS, Hypervisor/Container Engine and VNFs/CNFs (Near RT RIC, O-CU, O-DU) |

| Threat ID | T-VM-C-06 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Failed or incomplete VNF/CNF termination or releasing of resources |
| Threat description | A malicious VNF/CNF is instantiated in the O-Cloud infrastructure to access data not erased from a terminated VNF/CNF or any VNF/CNF that has released resources. Data could include application data, cryptographic keys... Abuse of resources allocation in the O-Cloud infrastructure to allocate to a malicious VNF/CNF the virtual resources released from a terminated VNF/CNF or from a VNF/CNF that has released resources after a move or a scaling process. Inclusion of concealed software in the O-Cloud infrastructure to prevent the deletion/erasure of data and states of the VNF/CNF that has been terminated. |
| Threat type | Information disclosure |
| Impact type | Confidentiality |
| Affected Asset | Sensitive data (e.g. passwords, private keys, subscription data, logs), VNFs/CNFs (Near RT RIC, O-CU, O-DU) software and data |

#### Threats concerning VM/Container images

| Threat ID | T-IMG-01 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | VM/Container images tampering |
| Threat description | An attacker can inject malicious code or tamper the information inside the unprotected image during on boarding. Then after the instantiation of the VNF/CNF, the tampered code can cause DoS, information stealing, frauds and so on. There are several attacks categories belonging to this threat. Such attacks include: Build machine attacks: If an attacker can modify or influence the way a VM/Container image is built, they could insert malicious code that will subsequently get run in the production environment.  Supply chain attacks: Once the VM/Container image is built, it gets stored in a registry, and it gets retrieved or “pulled” from the registry at the point where it’s going to be run. An attacker who can replace an image or modify an image between build and deployment could run arbitrary code on your deployment. |
| Threat type | Tampering, Information disclosure |
| Impact type | Integrity, Confidentiality |
| Affected Asset | VM/Container images |

| Threat ID | T-IMG-02 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Insecure channels with images repository |
| Threat description | Images often contain sensitive components like an organization’s proprietary software, and embedded secrets and administrator credentials. If connections to registries are performed over insecure channels, man-in-the-middle attacks could intercept network traffic and therefore the contents integrity and confidentiality of images may be compromised. There is also an increased risk of man-in-the-middle attacks that could intercept network traffic intended for registries and steal developer or administrator credentials within that traffic. Thus, could be used to provide fraudulent or outdated images to orchestrators, etc. |
| Threat type | Tampering, Information disclosure |
| Impact type | Integrity, Confidentiality |
| Affected Asset | VMs/Containers images |

| Threat ID | T-IMG-03 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Secrets disclosure in VM/Container images |
| Threat description | There are scenarios which benefit from including configuration and secrets, such as passwords or credentials in VNFs/CNFs images. For e.g. VMs/Containers require to be able to connect to other VMs/Containers within the deployment as well as with external entities. All these connections need to be authenticated and secured. One way of achieving this is to provide the requisite secrets or keys to the VMs/Containers which allow them to authenticate, be authenticated, secure the communication channel and signature.  A common but in-secure means of providing secrets to the VMs/Containers is by packaging the secrets or the keys with the image itself. There is the risk that the same can be extracted, read or manipulated before the VM/Container is deployed and the secret used. With a long supply chain, VM/Container images are vulnerable to outside scrutiny. With VM/Container images containing secrets or keys, this becomes a serious threat vector. Adversaries can extract them by obtaining a copy of the image and they can be potentially shared with third parties for illicit gain.  Secrets embedded within a VM/Container image can be stolen.  Secrets embedded within a VM/Container image can be modified  Compromised private keys and algorithms used for image signing due to poor key protection/management/design could undermine the security of image signing process. |
| Threat type | Spoofing, Tampering, Information disclosure |
| Impact type | Authenticity, Integrity, Confidentiality |
| Affected Asset | VM/Container images |

| Threat ID | T-IMG-04 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Build image on VL |
| Threat description | Adversaries may build a VM/Container image directly on the VL to bypass defenses that monitor for the retrieval of malicious images from a registry.  Container example: A remote build request may be sent to the Docker API that includes a Dockerfile that pulls a vanilla base image, such as alpine, from a public or local registry and then builds a custom image upon it. An adversary may take advantage of that build API to build a custom image on the host that includes malware downloaded from their C2 server, and they then may deploy container using that custom image. If the base image is pulled from a public registry, defenses will likely not detect the image as malicious since it’s a vanilla image. If the base image already resides in a local registry, the pull may be considered even less suspicious since the image is already in the environment. |
| Threat type | Spoofing, Tampering, Information disclosure, Denial of Service and Elevation of privilege |
| Impact type | Authenticity, Integrity, Confidentiality, Availability and Authorization |
| Affected Asset | VM/Container images |

#### Threats concerning the virtualization layer (Host OS-Hypervisor/Container engine)

| Threat ID | T-VL-01 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | VM/Container hyperjacking attack |
| Threat description | VMs/Containers run on host machines, and it is needed to ensure that those hosts (Hypervisor/Container Engine/Host OS- are not running vulnerable code (for example, old versions of components with known vulnerabilities).   Hyperjacking is an attack in which adversaries gain control over the host of a server or install a malicious Hypervisor/Container Engine/Host OS and exploit that to run malicious applications on the VM/Container that run on top of the host. This would enable the attacker to control all the VMs/Containers running on the host. Hyperjacking involves installing a malicious, fake the Hypervisor/Container Engine/Host OS that can manage the entire server system. If the attacker gains access to the Hypervisor/Container Engine/Host OS, everything that is connected to that server can be manipulated. The Hypervisor/Container Engine/Host OS represents a single point of failure when it comes to the security and protection of sensitive information. For a hyperjacking attack to succeed, an attacker would have to take control of the Hypervisor/Container Engine/Host OS by the following methods: Injecting a rogue Hypervisor/Container Engine or Host OS beneath the original hypervisor or on top of an existing Hypervisor/Container Engine/Host OS Directly obtaining control of the original Hypervisor/Container Engine or Host OS Running a rogue hypervisor on top of an existing hypervisor |
| Threat type | Spoofing, Tampering, Information disclosure, Denial of Service and Elevation of privilege |
| Impact type | Authenticity, Integrity, Confidentiality, Availability and Authorization |
| Affected Asset | Host OS, Hypervisor/Container Engine and VNFs/CNFs (Near RT RIC, O-CU, O-DU) |

| Threat ID | T-VL-02 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Boot tampering |
| Threat description | The bootloader of the virtualization layer (Host OS, Hypervisor, Container Engine) for VNF/CNF may be maliciously tampered by an attacker, e.g. the attacker compromises hypervisor or host OS to tamper the bootloader of guest OS (in case of VM) or Container. In a O-Cloud environment any failure during the boot sequence can result in a number of situations that need to be handled by the NFO/FOCOM: • failure of the physical machine to start at all • physical machine entering a safe-mode • physical machine continuing boot regardless of the integrity measurements |
| Threat type | Tampering |
| Impact type | Integrity |
| Affected Asset | Host OS, Hypervisor/Container Engine and VNFs/CNFs (Near RT RIC, O-CU, O-DU) |

| Threat ID | T-VL-03 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Attack internal network services |
| Threat description | In addition to attacking the network between containers, adversaries can also attack supporting services such as DNS service, which is only reachable from within the cluster network. The highly distributed nature of containers requires shared services for example for coordination and service discovery. An attacker can target these services to degrade services. For example, a denial-of-service against the service discovery infrastructure could prevent O-Cloud to react to changing resource requirements properly. Thus, O-Cloud may no longer be able to scale appropriately to sudden demand spikes [i.16]. |
| Threat type | Denial of Service |
| Impact type | Availability |
| Affected Asset | Software components at runtime and their associated data |

#### Threats concerning O-Cloud interfaces

##### O2 interface

Two main interfaces are defined in O-RAN WG6 specification and identified as critical assets of O-Cloud, i.e. interfaces O2 between O-Cloud and SMO. The threats on these interfaces are as follows.

| Threat ID | T-O2-01 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | MitM attacks on O2 interface between O-Cloud and SMO |
| Threat description | If the interface O2 interface is not protected, an attacker can attack all the requests/responses sent between the O-Cloud and the SMO (FOCOM and NFO).  For example, the attacker can tamper/alter/disclose requests and services (See ‘Critical services’ in 2.3) sent over O2 between O-Cloud and SMO, hence the virtualized resource or relevant status information is not as requested. This affects the normal operation of the O-Cloud, and even causes DoS attacks, information leakage. An attacker can tamper the specific assignment of virtualized resources to cause resource assignment errors or an attacker can intercept virtualized resources state information leading to information disclosure. An attacker can compromise IMS to tamper with the hardware state information (e.g. deleting hardware alarm information) to affect the hardware's operation or to result in information disclosure (e.g. an attacker can get the hardware configuration from the compromised IMS. Then, the attacker can attack the hardware according to the configuration such as CPU type, memory size etc.). An attacker can also tamper or intercept the hardware resource configuration and state information if the configuration and state information are transmitted using an insecure protocol on the O2 interface. |
| Threat type | Tampering, Information disclosure, Denial of Service |
| Impact type | Integrity, Confidentiality, Availability |
| Affected Asset | Telemetry, provisioning, logs, software management, performance information |

##### O-Cloud API

| Threat ID | T-OCAPI-01 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | MitM attacks on O-Cloud interface between VNFs/CNFs and the virtualization layer |
| Threat description | An attacker can attack an instantiated VNF/CNF through a compromised virtualization layer. For example, cryptographic keys or other security critical data of an instantiated VNF/CNF could be stolen by an attacker with access to the virtualization layer, or the virtualized resource provided by the Virtualization layer to the instantiated VNF/CNF can be manipulated or the bootloader of Guest OS (in case of VM) or Container of an instantiated VNF/CNF can be tampered by an attacker via a compromised virtualization layer. |
| Threat type | Tampering, Information disclosure, Denial of Service |
| Impact type | Integrity, Confidentiality, Availability |
| Affected Asset | Host OS, Hypervisor/Container Engine and VNFs/CNFs (Near RT RIC, O-CU, O-DU) |

#### Threats concerning hardware resources

| Threat ID | T-HW-01 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Cross VM/Container side channel attacks |
| Threat description | In a typical cross-VM/Container side channel attack scenario, an adversary places a malicious VM/Container co-resident to the target VM/Container so that they share the same hardware resources. Then, the attacker extracts useful information such as cryptographic keys from the target VM/Container to use them for traffic eavesdropping and man-in-the-middle attacks. Through the side channel attack, an attacker sharing the same cache as the victim can monitor the cache access behavior of the victim. For example, the attacker is able to monitor cache timing information by measuring the execution of different operations on the victim’s VM/Container. Generally, the attacker exploits timings in the shared high-level cache memory. However, power consumption or electromagnetic leaks can also be used as a vector to launch side channel attacks. In the virtual environment, prior to the cross-VM/Container side channel attack, the attacker needs to identify the target VM/Container’s location and place a malicious VM/Container co-resident with the target. Later, that attacker may use the maliciously placed VM/Container to extract information from the target VM/Container with the side channel attack. Hardware vulnerabilities in processors can also have a large impact on O-Cloud security. Flaws in chip design can result in the compromise of tenant information in the cloud through side-channel attacks [i.24]. |
| Threat type | Tampering, Information disclosure, Denial of Service |
| Impact type | Integrity, Confidentiality, Availability |
| Affected Asset | Sensitive data (e.g. passwords, private keys, subscription data, logs), VNFs/CNFs (Near RT RIC, O-CU, O-DU) related data |

| Threat ID | T-HW-02 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | MitM attacks on the interface between virtualization layer and hardware |
| Threat description | An attacker can utilize the vulnerabilities of hardware (e.g. Meltdown and Specter of CPU in host) to attack virtualization layer and/or VNFs/CNFs through this interface, resulting in tampering, information disclosure or DoS. |
| Threat type | Tampering, Information disclosure, Denial of Service |
| Impact type | Integrity, Confidentiality, Availability |
| Affected Asset | All assets |

#### Threats concerning O-Cloud management (SMO, NFO, FOCOM)

| Threat ID | T-ADMIN-01 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Denial of service against NFO/FOCOM |
| Threat description | A denial-of-service attack against the NFO/FOCOM can interfere with the ability of operators to control and maintain their deployments. This can lead to the inability to react to changing resource requirements. In addition, the NFO/FOCOM is the external API to interact with the O-Cloud platform. Thus, other services may become inaccessible as well. For example, operators may be unable to retrieve logs, telemetry data. An attacker could use this opportunity to hide additional attacks on VM/Container instances. In addition, an attacker on the NFO/FOCOM could prevents the O-Cloud software update (VNFs/CNFs, VL) to exploit a known security flaw in the O-Cloud software. |
| Threat type | Denial of Service |
| Impact type | Availability |
| Affected Asset | VM/Container images, VNF/CNF, host OS, Hypervisor/Container Engine software |

| Threat ID | T-ADMIN-02 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Abuse a O-Cloud administration service |
| Threat description | Usually, the SMO including NFO/FOCOM is exposed to the tenant in a web front-end or REST API. In case these interfaces contain software vulnerabilities or implement authentication and authorization insufficiently, an adversary would be able to gain access to the VM/Container management and pose as a tenant. It is also possible that an adversary gains the ability to submit requests without prior authentication and authorization. The NFO/FOCOM interfaces encompasses a great deal of privileges because anyone gaining sufficient access is able to deploy new instances and disrupt existing O-Cloud services. It may also be possible for an adversary to submit compromised VM/Container images that unsuspecting tenants then use to initiate O-Cloud services. Moreover, adversaries can use the same access to extract business data, configuration data, user data and possibly credentials. For example, they may be able to create backups of VM/Container instances or they can export VM/Container images. The impact of compromised credentials is exacerbated by the fact that weak and insufficient safeguarding of credentials is recognized as one of the top threats in cloud computing [38]. Container example: Adversaries may abuse a container administration service to execute commands within a container. A container administration service such as the Docker daemon, the Kubernetes API server, or the kubelet may allow remote management of containers within an environment. Container example: In Docker, adversaries may specify an entrypoint during container deployment that executes a script or command, or they may use a command such as docker exec to execute a command within a running container. In Kubernetes, if an adversary has sufficient permissions, they may gain remote execution in a container in the cluster via interaction with the Kubernetes API server, the kubelet, or by running a command such as kubectl exec. |
| Threat type | Tampering, Information disclosure, Denial of Service and Elevation of privilege |
| Impact type | Integrity, Confidentiality, Availability, Authorization |
| Affected Asset | VNF/CNF, host OS, Hypervisor/Container Engine software and related information |

#### Threats concerning Acceleration Abstraction Layer (AAL)

| Threat ID | T-AAL-01 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Attacker exploits insecure API to gain access to hardware accelerator resources |
| Threat description | Insecure AAL API allows an attacker to tamper the requests/responses sent between the AAL components, the O-Cloud platform and O-RAN APPs/VNFs/CNFs.  For example, the attacker can tamper requests and services sent over AALI-C-Mgnt between IMS and the hardware accelerator manager, hence capability of the hardware accelerator device, fault information, logs, performance information and others are not as requested. This affects the normal operation of the O-Cloud, and even causes tampering. An attacker can tamper application (e.g. O-DU) requests sent over AALI-C-App to an AAL implementation for allocation of buffers. This affects the normal operation of the applications, and even causes tampering. An attacker can tamper application (e.g. O-DU) requests sent over AALI-P for configuring and managing the AAL-LPU(s). This affects the normal operation of the applications, and even causes tampering. |
| Threat type | Tampering |
| Impact type | Integrity |
| Affected Asset | Data in transit AALI-C-App & AALI-P interfaces, Data in transit vendor specific interface, AAL profiles, AAL-LPUs, Stored AAL data, AAL software, Device firmware |

| Threat ID | T-AAL-02 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Internal Overload DoS attack targeting AAL services |
| Threat description | Overload situation could appear in the case of DoS attack or increased traffic on AAL interfaces. Inability to mitigate traffic volumetric attacks on AAL affects availability of AAL data and services. DoS attacks on the AALI-C interface affect the different services provided by the hardware accelerator manager and the transport abstraction framework. DoS attacks on the AALI-P interface affect the configuration and management of AAL-LPU (Acceleration Abstraction Layer Logical Processing Unit) by an application (e.g. O-DU) in addition to acceleration functionality. |
| Threat type | Denial of Service |
| Impact type | Availability |
| Affected Asset | AAL profiles, AAL-LPUs, Stored AAL data, AAL software, Device firmware |

| Threat ID | T-AAL-03 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Fail to clear resources |
| Threat description | Fail to clear accelerator resources after a process termination. This causes an information leakage and incorrect results for computations. Further, failure to release accelerator resources may prevent other processes from running. This threat is relevant to accelerator resources either inside the hardware accelerator device (internal memories, registers, cache) or in the O-Cloud memories used by accelerators. |
| Threat type | Information disclosure, Denial of service |
| Impact type | Confidentiality, Availability |
| Affected Asset | AAL profiles, AAL-LPUs, Stored AAL data, AAL software, Device firmware |

| Threat ID | T-AAL-04 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | HAM compromise |
| Threat description | A malicious actor can gain access to HAM to gain unauthorized access and control of the hardware accelerator device. This can result in the disruption of services (DoS) and tampering of accelerator components, such as firmware, drivers which can cause the accelerator to behave abnormally or crash altogether. |
| Threat type | Tampering, Denial of service |
| Impact type | Integrity, Availability |
| Affected Asset | Data in transit AALI-C-App & AALI-P interfaces, Data in transit vendor specific interface, AAL profiles, AAL-LPUs, Stored AAL data, AAL software, Device firmware |

| Threat ID | T-AAL-05 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Malicious memory accesses |
| Threat description | AAL that allows one process running on the hardware accelerator device to access memory owned by another process running on the hardware accelerator device can leak information (impact on confidentiality). Similarly, AAL allowing concurrently executing processes to write to one another’s memory may have correctness errors (impact on integrity). If multiple processes are running concurrently and one is allowed to dominate accelerator resources, the other may suffer from degraded performance. For example, if one process can evict all cache entries belonging to the other, the victim will suffer performance penalties (impact on availability). |
| Threat type | Information disclosure, Tampering, Denial of service |
| Impact type | Confidentiality, Integrity, Availability |
| Affected Asset | AAL profiles, AAL-LPUs, Stored AAL data, AAL software, Device firmware |

| Threat ID | T-AAL-06 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Firmware attacks |
| Threat description | Hardware accelerators often have their own firmware, which can be targeted by attackers. This could include modifying the firmware to introduce vulnerabilities (e.g., malware) or installing a malicious firmware to extract/modify sensitive information or execute unauthorized actions (e.g., control the device remotely). |
| Threat type | Information disclosure, Tampering |
| Impact type | Confidentiality, Integrity |
| Affected Asset | AAL profiles, AAL-LPUs, Stored AAL data, AAL software, Device firmware |

#### Threats concerning O-Cloud instance ID

| Threat ID | T-O-CLOUD-ID-01 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | ID reuse in O-Cloud's object lifecycle |
| Threat description | In O-Cloud, objects such as Containers, Pods, Nodes, and Services are identified by their IDs within a given compute pool (e.g., cluster in Kubernetes). When an object is deleted, its ID becomes available for reuse. This means that a new object can be created with the same ID as a previously deleted object. If an object gets deleted but all its associated data isn't properly isolated or cleaned, the ID, if reused, could lead to unintended data associations or leaks. Potential consequences: Data Residue: A new object, reusing an ID, may inherit residual data or configurations from its predecessor, leading to potential misconfigurations and incorrect data associations. This can result in sensitive data exposure. Data Overwrite: Automated processes unaware of the deletion and subsequent recreation might mistakenly write or read data from the new object, thinking it's the old one. Monitoring Ambiguities: Monitoring tools might combine metrics from the old and new objects, resulting in confusing data. Operational Disruptions: The new object might operate based on the residual configurations of the old object, potentially leading to system inefficiencies or failures. |
| Threat type | Tampering, Information disclosure |
| Impact type | Integrity, Confidentiality |
| Affected Asset | O-Cloud Provisioning information, Software components at runtime and their associated data, Security event logs |

| Threat ID | T-O-CLOUD-ID-02 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Node redundancy in O-Cloud deployments |
| Threat description | Nodes in O-Cloud often represent physical or virtual machines. If a machine fails and is replaced without deleting its corresponding Node object, and the new machine is given the same ID or the hostname, O-Cloud might treat the new machine as if it were the original. Potential consequences: Resource Mismatch: The new host might have different resources (CPU, memory, storage) than the old one, leading to scheduling issues or resource constraints. Stale Data: The new node might inherit data or configurations from the old node, leading to potential security or operational risks. Network Issues: Network configurations or IP address assignments might be inconsistent or conflicting. |
| Threat type | Spoofing, Tampering, Information disclosure, Denial of Service |
| Impact type | Authenticity, Integrity, Confidentiality, Availability |
| Affected Asset | O-Cloud Provisioning information, Software components at runtime and their associated data, Security event logs |

| Threat ID | T-O-CLOUD-ID-03 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | O-Cloud ID mismanagement |
| Threat description | IDs are crucial for uniquely identifying objects within the O-Cloud. Mismanagement occurs when these IDs are not properly assigned, tracked, or validated, leading to potential overlaps or inconsistencies. Potential consequences: ID Collision: Due to system glitches or bugs, two distinct objects could inadvertently be allocated the same ID. Such an occurrence is termed an ID collision. This can result in operations meant for one object inadvertently affecting the other. Resource Overwrite: If two objects share the same ID, updates or modifications intended for one might overwrite the data of the other, leading to data inconsistencies or loss. ID-Based Permissions: Many security protocols and access controls in O-Cloud can be tied to object IDs. If an attacker can predict, guess, or manipulate the ID generation process, they might gain unauthorized access to resources. Log Merging: Monitoring tools and logging systems use IDs to track events and operations related to specific objects. If two objects share an ID, their logs might get merged, making it challenging to trace events back to their source. RBAC Anomalies: Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) regulations attached to specific object IDs could unintentionally approve or restrict access to the novel object due to misidentification. |
| Threat type | Spoofing, Tampering, Information Disclosure, Repudiation, Elevation of Privilege, Denial of Service |
| Impact type | Authenticity, Integrity, Non-repudiability, Confidentiality, Availability, Authorization |
| Affected Asset | O-Cloud Provisioning information, Software components at runtime and their associated data, Security event logs |

#### Threats concerning time synchronization

| Threat ID | T-TS-01 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Time synchronization disruption in O-Cloud |
| Threat description | Disruption or manipulation of the time synchronization process within the O-Cloud can lead to severe security and operational issues. An attacker may target the time synchronization mechanisms to alter time settings across O-Cloud nodes, leading to: Impersonation of time synchronization server: An attacker may impersonate a legitimate time synchronization server, tricking nodes into accepting incorrect time data. This can cause nodes to synchronize with a malicious time source, leading to widespread time discrepancies. Data integrity loss: Inconsistent timestamps can corrupt logs and audit trails within the O-Cloud, making it difficult to trace and analyze security events accurately. Operational disruption: Time-sensitive operations within the O-Cloud may be disrupted, leading to data loss and service outages. Authentication and authorization bypass: Many security mechanisms in the O-Cloud rely on accurate time. Disrupted time synchronization can undermine token expiration, certificate validity, and other time-based access controls, potentially allowing unauthorized access to O-Cloud resources. EXAMPLE: Time-sensitive operations such as automated backups, scheduled tasks (e.g., resource scaling, patch management), and certificate renewals. NOTE: This threat is linked to the operation of CronJob resources as described in clause 4.3.1.1.6 of the O-RAN specification [i.34]. Any disruption or manipulation of the time synchronization process can severely impact scheduled operations managed by CronJobs within the O-Cloud. |
| Threat type | Spoofing, Tampering, Denial of Service and Elevation of privilege |
| Vulnerabilities | Insecure time synchronization protocols Insufficient authentication mechanisms and access controls for the time synchronization settings Misconfiguration of time synchronization settings on O-Cloud nodes |
| Impact type | Authenticity, Integrity, Availability and Authorization |
| Affected Asset | Log and audit trails O-Cloud time synchronization settings |

### Threats to open source code

Open source introduces the following threats:

| Threat ID | T-OPENSRC-01 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Developers use SW components with known vulnerabilities and untrusted libraries that can be exploited by an attacker through a backdoor attack |
| Threat description | The O-RAN Software Community is a Linux Foundation project, supported and funded by O-RAN to lead the implementation of the O-RAN specifications in Open Source. Industry has recognized that Open Source code introduces security risks. Open Source vulnerabilities are publicly available on the National Vulnerability Database (NVD). While this is intended for developers to disclose vulnerabilities, it is also used by hackers to exploit those vulnerabilities. Vulnerabilities frequently propagate as developers re-use free open source code enabling backdoors to attacks. There have been notable vulnerabilities from downloading open source libraries and dependencies, as well as supply chain risks when downloading Open Source code from untrusted repositories. Some O-RAN vendors and operators may not have accurate inventories of open-source software dependencies used by their different applications, or a process to receive and manage notifications concerning discovered vulnerabilities or available patches from the community supporting the open-source. Some O-RAN vendors may not have a lack of consistent Supply Chain traceability and security, and a lack of coding best practices conflicts with Security-by-Design principles. Developers may use modules with known vulnerabilities and untrusted libraries that can be exploited by an attacker through a backdoor attack. Attackers can exploit a vulnerability on the open source code and infects a hypervisor, operating system, VM or container with a malware. |

| Threat ID | T-OPENSRC-02 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | A trusted developer intentionally inserts a backdoor into an open source code O-RAN component |
| Threat description | A trusted developer intentionally inserts a backdoor by injecting a few lines of malicious code into an open source code component to be used within the O-RAN system. A software project team picks up and uses the infected open source code and the development team’s tools for vetting and testing the component do not detect the malicious code. Unknowingly they have introduced a vulnerability into their O-RAN software code. The vulnerability has gone undetected and the threat actor is able to compromise the software through the inserted vulnerability. The resulting effect on the O-RAN system can take a variety of forms, from being annoying to impacting system performance (DoS) to the loss of sensitive data. |

### Physical Threats

| Threat ID | T-PHYS-01 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | An intruder gains physical access to O-RAN components to cause damage by manipulation / modification to software / software configuration /management. |
| Threat description | Physical attacks on the O-RAN deployment that stores or processes keys, user plane data, control plane data and management data in cleartext. O-RAN physical components might be vulnerable if:  Improper physical security protection of data centers, PNFs, operation areas, etc. Hardware backdoor Attackers try to modify the O-RAN components settings and configurations via local access. Physical access to O-RAN components due  to unsecured management ports and consoles (such as JTAG, serial consoles or dedicated management ports), relaxed administrator credentials management, unsecured HW and SW configuration/management could allow an attacker to inject malware and/or manipulate existing software,. |
| Threat Type | Tampering |
| Vulnerabilities | Improper physical security protection, hardware backdoor |
| Impact Type | Integrity |
| Affected Assets | ALL |

| Threat ID | T-PHYS-01A |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | An intruder gains physical access to O-RAN components to access sensitive data |
| Threat description | Physical attacks on the O-RAN deployment that stores or processes keys, user plane data, control plane data and management data in cleartext. O-RAN physical components might be vulnerable if:  Improper physical security protection of data centers, PNFs, operation areas, etc. Hardware backdoor Attackers try to modify the O-RAN components settings and configurations via local access. Physical access to O-RAN components due to unsecured management ports and consoles (such as JTAG, serial consoles or dedicated management ports), relaxed administrator credentials management, unsecured HW and SW configuration/management could allow an attacker to steal unprotected private keys, certificates, and hash values. |
| Threat Type | Information Disclosure |
| Vulnerabilities | Improper physical security protection, hardware backdoor |
| Impact Type | Confidentiality |
| Affected Assets | ALL |

| Threat ID | T-PHYS-01B |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | An intruder gains physical access to O-RAN components to cause performance degradations, denial of service. |
| Threat description | Physical attacks on the O-RAN deployment that stores or processes keys, user plane data, control plane data and management data in cleartext. O-RAN physical components might be vulnerable if:  Improper physical security protection of data centers, PNFs, operation areas, etc. Improper protection against power outages (power supply) Improper maintenance and monitoring of hardware parameters Hardware backdoor Attackers try to modify the O-RAN components settings and configurations via local access. Physical access to O-RAN components due to unsecured management ports and consoles (such as JTAG, serial consoles or dedicated management ports), relaxed administrator credentials management, unsecured HW and SW configuration/management could allow an attacker disable security features, create a performance issue by manipulation of parameters. |
| Threat Type | Denial of service |
| Vulnerabilities | Improper physical security protection, Improper maintenance and monitoring of hardware parameters, hardware backdoor |
| Impact Type | Availability |
| Affected Assets | ALL |

| Threat ID | T-PHYS-02 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | An intruder into the Fronthaul cable network attempts to gain electronic access to cause damage or access sensitive data |
| Threat description | O-RU and O-DU may be located at different premises with the fronthaul supported by a cable network. Attackers can gain access to, or control over, data traffic by breaching terminals in the cable landing sites (O-RU or O-DU). |
| Threat Type | Information disclosure |
| Vulnerabilities | Physical access to the open Fronthaul cable network |
| Impact Type | Confidentiality |
| Affected Assets | Critical S-Plane Data [ASSET-D-01]  Critical M-Plane Data [ASSET-D-02]  Critical C-Plane Data [ASSET-D-04]  Critical U-Plane Data [ASSET-D-05] O-DU software [ASSET-C-05] O-RU software [ASSET-C-06] Shared O-RU [ASSET-C-31] O-RU Host [ASSET-C-32] O-RU Tenant (Shared Resource Operator) [ASSET-C-33] O-DU Host [ASSET-C-34] O-DU tenant (Shared Resource Operator) [ASSET-C-35] PNF NF equipment [ASSET-C-12] |

### Threats against 5G radio networks

Threats against 5G radio networks include:

| Threat ID | T-RADIO-01 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Disruption through radio Jamming |
| Threat description | Disruption through radio jamming is possible by analyzing the physical downlink and uplink control channels and signals. 5G radio network is vulnerable to: Jamming Vulnerability of Reference Signals Jamming Vulnerability of Synchronization Signal Jamming Vulnerability of the PBCH Jamming Vulnerability of PDCCH Jamming Vulnerability of Physical Uplink Control Channel Jamming Vulnerability of Physical Random-Access Channel NOTE : The O-RAN OEMs need to develop new intelligence that can proactively alert the operator when this attack is initiated so that the operator can take appropriate actions to mitigate. |
| Threat Type | Denial of Service |
| Vulnerabilities | Weakness of wireless cellular communications |
| Impact Type | Availability |
| Affected Assets | Reference signals, synchronization signal and channels in downlink and uplink between O-RU and UE [ASSET-D-06] O-DU software [ASSET-C-05] O-RU software [ASSET-C-06] |

| Threat ID | T-RADIO-01A |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Disruption through radio Sniffing and Spoofing |
| Threat description | Disruption through radio jamming is possible by analyzing the physical downlink and uplink control channels and signals. 5G radio network is vulnerable to: Sniffing and Spoofing Vulnerability of the PBCH NOTE: In the scenario of RF spoofing, the UE needs to be able to validate the legitimacy of the O-RU as being one owned and operated by the operator. 3GPP has proposed in a study to use Digital Signatures to mitigate this threat but there has been no agreement on this to date. The O-RAN OEMs need to develop new intelligence that can proactively alert the operator when this attack is initiated so that the operator can take appropriate actions to mitigate. |
| Threat Type | Spoofing |
| Vulnerabilities | Weakness of wireless cellular communications |
| Impact Type | Authenticity |
| Affected Assets | Reference signals, synchronization signal and channels in downlink and uplink between O-RU and UE  [ASSET-D-06] O-DU software [ASSET-C-05] O-RU software [ASSET-C-06] |

| Threat ID | T-RADIO-02 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | DoS attacks on cognitive radio networks [i.17] |
| Threat description | Cognitive radio (CR) technology, which is designed to enhance spectrum utilization, depends on the success of opportunistic access, where unlicensed secondary users (SUs) exploit spectrum void unoccupied by primary users (PUs) for transmissions. To realize DoS attacks, malicious users (MUs) target the critical functionalities for CR ecosystems, including spectrum sensing, agile radio, and light-handed regulation since once these functionalities fail, SUs are not able to communicate effectively. For example, MUs can directly jam the victim by injecting interference or deceive SUs into believing that there is a PU by emulating the signal characteristics of the PU, thereby evacuating the occupied spectrum. Moreover, the liability rule is vulnerable to the selfish and greedy users aiming to maximize their own private benefits. Since complying with the rule results in fewer transmission opportunities, such SUs may not want to invest efforts to follow the rule and thus will transmit simultaneously with PUs. |
| Threat Type | Denial of Service |
| Vulnerabilities | Weakness of wireless cellular communications |
| Impact Type | Availability |
| Affected Assets | Reference signals, synchronization signal and channels in downlink and uplink between O-RU and UE [ASSET-D-06] O-DU software [ASSET-C-05] O-RU software [ASSET-C-06] |

### Threats against AI/ML system

Introduction

This section provides the relevant threats against the AI/ML system implemented in O-RAN architecture.

Input Manipulation Attacks

| Threat ID | T-AIML-IM-1 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Training Data Control |
| Threat description | An adversary takes control of a subset of the training data by inserting or modifying training samples. |
| Threat type | Tampering |
| Vulnerabilities | Vulnerabilities in data sources, vulnerabilities in training database |
| Impact type | Integrity |
| Affected Assets | Training or test data: data sets collected externally or internally from the Near-RT RIC, O-CU and O-DU and passed to the ML training hosts in a ML system. [ASSET-D-25] The trained ML model [ASSET-D-26], The ML prediction results built into the model [ASSET-D-27], The behaviour of the ML system [ASSET-D-28]. |

| Threat ID | T-AIML-IM-2 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Testing Data Control |
| Threat description | An adversary adds perturbations to testing samples at model deployment time to generate adversarial examples or in backdoor poisoning attacks |
| Threat type | Tampering |
| Vulnerabilities | Vulnerabilities in data sources, vulnerabilities in training database |
| Impact type | Integrity |
| Affected Assets | Training or test data: data sets collected externalyexternally or internally from the Near-RT RIC, O-CU and O-DU and passed to the ML training hosts in a ML system. [ASSET-D-25] The trained ML model [ASSET-D-26], The ML prediction results built into the model [ASSET-D-27], The behaviour of the ML system [ASSET-D-28]. |

| Threat ID | T-AIML-IM-3 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Label Manipulation |
| Threat description | An adversary may intentionally mis-assign labels to training data. |
| Threat type | Tampering |
| Vulnerabilities | Vulnerabilities in data sources, vulnerabilities in training database |
| Impact type | Integrity |
| Affected Assets | Training or test data: data sets collected externally or internally from the Near-RT RIC, O-CU and O-DU and passed to the ML training hosts in a ML system. [ASSET-D-25] The trained ML model [ASSET-D-26], The ML prediction results built into the model [ASSET-D-27], The behaviour of the ML system [ASSET-D-28]. |

| Threat ID | T-AIML-IM-4 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | AI/ML Query Exploitation |
| Threat description | An adversary may submit queries to the model and receive predictions (either labels or model confidences) and confidential data. |
| Threat type | Information Disclosure |
| Vulnerabilities | Vulnerabilities in data sources, vulnerabilities in training database, vulnerabilities in AI/ML APIs |
| Impact type | Confidentiality |
| Affected Assets | The trained ML model [ASSET-D-26], The ML prediction results built into the model [ASSET-D-27], The behaviour of the ML system [ASSET-D-28]. |

Data poisoning attacks

| Threat ID | T-AIML-DP-01 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Black-box Data Poisoning |
| Threat description | An attacker in possession of a compromised data-source can inject poisoned data which can be consumed by AI/ML for training. For such an attack, the attacker does not need to know any details of the AI/ML algorithm, or the parameters being used. Knowledge of inputs and outputs of AI/ML is sufficient to launch such attacks. |
| Threat type | Tampering |
| Impact type | Integrity |
| Affected Assets | Database holding data from xApp applications and E2 Node, Training or test data sets collected externally or internally, Trained ML model, ML components deploying machine learning (xApps, rApps), Near-RT-RIC SW, Non-RT-RIC SW |

| Threat ID | T-AIML-DP-02 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Grey-box Data Poisoning |
| Threat description | An attacker being able to query the database which stores the training data, and/or streaming data used for online ML models, and/or AI/ML models may be able to get more details about the AI/ML algorithms being used and parameters configured if any. This can help the attacker to launch an attack which can poison the training data in a manner that would affect that particular algorithm or its parameters the most. |
| Threat type | Tampering |
| Impact type | Integrity |
| Affected Assets | Database holding data from xApp applications and E2 Node, Training or test data sets collected externally or internally, Trained ML model, ML components deploying machine learning (xApps, rApps), Near-RT-RIC SW, Non-RT-RIC SW, O1 interface for streaming data, A1 interface, E2 interface for streaming data |

| Threat ID | T-AIML-DP-03 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | White-box Data Poisoning |
| Threat description | An attacker having full knowledge of the AI/ML algorithm being used, the configurable parameters like thresholds, hyper-parameters, etc. can launch a data poisoning attack in a manner which can modify the behaviour of AI/ML algorithm with slow poisoning and can make it very challenging to detect such attacks. |
| Threat type | Tampering |
| Impact type | Integrity |
| Affected Assets | Database holding data from xApp applications and E2 Node, Training or test data sets collected externally or internally, Trained ML model, ML components deploying machine learning (xApps, rApps), Near-RT-RIC SW, Non-RT-RIC SW, O1 interface for streaming data, A1 interface, E2 interface for streaming data |

#### Membership Inference Attacks

| Threat ID | T-AIML-MEI-01 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Information Access – Membership Inference |
| Threat description | An attacker possesses different levels of information on the model architecture, training parameters, training data, and relation between the output to the input. Based on the level of information access, the membership information attack (MIA) can be Black-box MIA, or Gray-box MIA or White-box MIA. |
| Threat type | Information disclosure |
| Impact type | Confidentiality |
| Affected Assets | The trained ML model which includes the configured hyperparameters, inference algorithm, and learned parameters. Near-RT RIC software, Non-RT RIC software. |

| Threat ID | T-AIML-MEI-02 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Inference Technique – Membership Inference |
| Threat description | An attacker by applying different analysis methods tries to infer input to output relation. Some of the attack types are Decision threshold analysis, Gradient-based analysis, Distance-based analysis. In Decision threshold analysis, the subtle changes in input’s relation to the model’s output confidence score is observed. In Gradient-based analysis techniques such as back propagation is used to analyse input to output variation. In Distance-based analysis the distance between model’s output for different inputs in multi-dimensional space is used. |
| Threat type | Information disclosure |
| Impact type | Confidentiality |
| Affected Assets | The trained ML model which includes the configured hyperparameters, inference algorithm, and learned parameters. Near-RT RIC software, Non-RT RIC software. |

| Threat ID | T-AIML-MEI-03 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Target based – Membership Inference |
| Threat description | In a target-based membership attack the attacker would like to understand whether specific individual data or data of a group of individuals are involved in the training set. The attack types are known as Individual membership inference attack, Group membership inference attack, respectively. In Individual membership inference attack, the attacker tries to determine if a specific user information is included in the training data. In Group membership inference attack, the attacker tries to determine behaviour of individuals and group them based on available data. |
| Threat type | Information disclosure |
| Impact type | Confidentiality |
| Affected Assets | The trained ML model which includes the configured hyperparameters, inference algorithm, and learned parameters. Near-RT RIC software, Non-RT RIC software. |

#### Model Stealing

| Threat ID | T-AIML-ME-01 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Intellectual Property Theft |
| Threat description | Stolen models can lead to the theft of intellectual property, allowing attackers to replicate the model's functionality without incurring the associated development costs. If a competitor gains unauthorized access to a trained model, it can undermine the original developer's competitive advantage by using the model for similar or competing purposes. |
| Threat type | Information disclosure |
| Impact type | Confidentiality |
| Affected Assets | Database holding data from xApp applications and E2 Node, Training or test data sets collected externally or internally, Trained ML model, Near-RT-RIC SW, Non-RT-RIC SW |

| Threat ID | T-AIML-ME-02 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Data Privacy Violations |
| Threat description | The stolen model may contain sensitive information embedded within its learned parameters. This can result in privacy breaches, especially if the model was trained on sensitive or personal data. |
| Threat type | Information disclosure |
| Impact type | Confidentiality |
| Affected Assets | Database holding data from xApp applications and E2 Node, Training or test data sets collected externally or internally, Trained ML model, Near-RT-RIC SW, Non-RT-RIC SW |

| Threat ID | T-AIML-ME-03 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Adversarial Attacks with Stolen Models |
| Threat description | Attackers may exploit the extracted model to craft adversarial examples (to mount an evasion attack) or launch targeted attacks against the system that initially deployed the model, using obtained knowledge about possible vulnerabilities. |
| Threat type | Tampering |
| Impact type | Integrity |
| Affected Assets | Database holding data from xApp applications and E2 Node [ASSET-D-10],  Training or test data sets collected externally or internally [ASSET-D-25],  Trained ML model [ASSET-D-26],  Near-RT-RIC SW [ASSET-C-02],  Non-RT-RIC SW [ASSET-C-11] |

#### Model Inversion Threats

| Threat ID | T-AIML-MOI-01 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Black-box Model Inversion |
| Threat description | An attacker has access to the model’s input-output pairs allowing them to input data and receive predictions. The attacker generates inputs, analyzes the model's outputs, and iteratively refines the inputs based on the obtained information. This process continues until the attacker is able to approximate the original training data. The attacker has no knowledge of the model's architecture, parameters, or the training data. |
| Threat type | Information Disclosure |
| Vulnerabilities | Model is overfitted, model may have memorized specific training examples, model API not properly protected |
| Impact type | Disclosure of sensitive/proprietary data |
| Affected Assets | Database holding data from xApp applications and E2 Node [ASSET-D-10], Training or test data sets collected externally or internally [ASSET-D-25],  Trained ML model [ASSET-D-26] The ML prediction results built into the model [ASSET-D-27] The behavior of the ML system including tasks for data collection, data wrangling, pipeline management, model retraining, and model deployment. [ASSET-D-28] |

| Threat ID | T-AIML-MOI-02 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | White-box Model Inversion |
| Threat description | An attacker has access to the AI model, including its architecture, parameters (such as weights and biases), and possibly partial knowledge of the training data. This information allows the attacker to exploit the inner workings of the model more effectively and reconstruct the original training data with higher accuracy. In this scenario, the attacker can use gradient-based optimization techniques to maximize the model's confidence in the target label or class, ultimately converging to a close approximation of the target data point. |
| Threat type | Information Disclosure |
| Vulnerabilities | Model is not protected, training data is not protected, model is overfitted, model may have memorized specific training examples, model API not protected |
| Impact type | Disclosure of sensitive/proprietary data |
| Affected Assets | Database holding data from xApp applications and E2 Node [ASSET-D-10],  Training or test data sets collected externally or internally [ASSET-D-25],  Trained ML model [ASSET-D-26] The ML prediction results built into the model [ASSET-D-27] The behavior of the ML system including tasks for data collection, data wrangling, pipeline management, model retraining, and model deployment. [ASSET-D-28] |

#### AI Supply Chain Attacks

| Threat ID | T-AIML-SC-01 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Poisoning via Supply Chain |
| Threat description | Adversaries may corrupt or manipulate training datasets to cause the AI model to learn incorrect associations or make biased predictions. This can lead to degraded performance, wrong decisions, or even backdoors in the final system. |
| Threat type | Tampering, Denial of Service |
| Impact type | Integrity, Availability |
| Affected Assets | Database holding data from xApp applications and E2 Node, Training or test data sets collected externally or internally, Trained ML model, ML components deploying machine learning (xApps, rApps),Near-RT-RIC SW, Non-RT-RIC SW |

| Threat ID | T-AIML-SC-02 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Model Tampering |
| Threat description | Attackers might inject malicious code or logic into the AI model itself during training or deployment. This could allow them to gain control over the target system, steal sensitive data, or force the AI system to produce incorrect results on demand. |
| Threat type | Tampering, Information disclosure |
| Impact type | Integrity, Confidentiality |
| Affected Assets | Database holding data from xApp applications and E2 Node, Training or test data sets collected externally or internally, Trained ML model, ML components deploying machine learning (xApps, rApps),Near-RT-RIC SW, Non-RT-RIC SW |

| Threat ID | T-AIML-SC-03 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Backdoor via Supply Chain |
| Threat description | In these attacks, a seemingly benign AI model is infected with malicious code that remains dormant until it receives a specific trigger. At this point, the attacker can remotely activate the backdoor and use it to compromise the target system or exfiltrate data. |
| Threat type | Tampering, Information disclosure |
| Impact type | Integrity, Confidentiality |
| Affected Assets | Database holding data from xApp applications and E2 Node, Training or test data sets collected externally or internally, Trained ML model, ML components deploying machine learning (xApps, rApps),Near-RT-RIC SW, Non-RT-RIC SW |

| Threat ID | T-AIML-SC-04 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Hardware Tampering |
| Threat description | Malicious actors may also focus on manipulating the hardware used for AI processing, such as GPUs, ASICs, or FPGAs. By introducing backdoors or vulnerabilities in these components, attackers can compromise the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of AI systems even if the software and data are secure. |
| Threat type | Tampering, Information disclosure |
| Impact type | Integrity, Confidentiality |
| Affected Assets | Database holding data from xApp applications and E2 Node, Trained ML model, ML components deploying machine learning (xApps, rApps),Near-RT-RIC SW, Non-RT-RIC SW |

| Threat ID | T-AIML-SC-05 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Insecure Maintenance APIs |
| Threat description | Many AI services are exposed through APIs, for example for deployment and maintenance, that can be abused by attackers to launch supply chain attacks. If these APIs are not properly secured, they can be used to inject malicious code or exfiltrate sensitive information from the target system. |
| Threat type | Tampering, Information disclosure |
| Impact type | Integrity, Confidentiality |
| Affected Assets | Database holding data from xApp applications and E2 Node, Training or test data sets collected externally or internally, Trained ML model, ML components deploying machine learning (xApps, rApps),Near-RT-RIC SW, Non-RT-RIC SW |

| Threat ID | T-AIML-SC-06 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Third-party Libraries and Dependencies |
| Threat description | AI systems often rely on third-party libraries and open-source components which might contain vulnerabilities or backdoors that attackers can exploit. Insecure software supply chains increase the risk of such attacks. |
| Threat type | Tampering, Information disclosure |
| Impact type | Integrity, Confidentiality |
| Affected Assets | Database holding data from xApp applications and E2 Node, Training or test data sets collected externally or internally, Trained ML model, ML components deploying machine learning (xApps, rApps),Near-RT-RIC SW, Non-RT-RIC SW |

#### Output Integrity Attack

| Threat ID | T-AIML-OI-01 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Denial of Service Impacting Output Integrity |
| Threat description | The AI/ML output can be manipulated to contain values that are incorrect or out of range. This can lead to service degradation, partial failure or total failure of the O-RAN element that is consuming this output and lead to denial of service to other O-RAN elements or subscribers. |
| Threat type | Denial of service |
| Impact type | Availability |
| Affected Assets | Training or test data sets collected externally or internally,  Trained ML model,  ML prediction results, A1 policies, E2 node data,  Near-RT-RIC SW,  Non-RT-RIC SW |

| Threat ID | T-AIML-OI-02 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Subscriber QoE Change |
| Threat description | The AI/ML output can be manipulated to contain values which can influence the configuration or policies being used by the O-RAN elements. This can lead to a behavior of O-RAN network elements where a subscriber or a group of subscribers is treated unfairly or with a preference. |
| Threat type | Tampering |
| Impact type | Integrity |
| Affected Assets | Training or test data sets collected externally or internally, Trained ML model , ML prediction results ,Data transported over the O1 interface,A1 policies, E2 node data,Near-RT-RIC SW, Non-RT-RIC SW . |

#### Model Poisoning

| Threat ID | T-AIML-MP-01 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Model Parameter Poisoning |
| Threat description | The adversary has access to the parameters file of a trained model. The parameters file is altered to change the model’s predictions to achieve the goals of the adversary. |
| Threat type | Tampering |
| Vulnerabilities | Insufficient access controls to the model’s parameters [i.33] Inadequate monitoring and logging of model’s activity [i.32] Lack of control for poisoning in model [i.32] Weak access protection mechanisms for ML model components [i.32] |
| Impact type | Integrity |
| Affected Assets | [ASSET-D-26] Trained ML model. [ASSET-C-12] ML components deploying machine learning (xApps, rApps). [ASSET-D-27] The ML prediction results built into the model (e.g. expected outcomes). |

| Threat ID | T-AIML-MP-02 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Inference Algorithm Poisoning |
| Threat description | The adversary has access to the code of a trained model. The inference algorithm is altered to change the model’s predictions to achieve the goals of the adversary. |
| Threat type | Tampering |
| Vulnerabilities | Insufficient access controls to the model’s code [i.33] Inadequate monitoring and logging of model’s activity [i.32] Lack of code integrity checking Weak access protection mechanisms for ML model components [i.32] |
| Impact type | Integrity |
| Affected Assets | [ASSET-D-26] Trained ML model. [ASSET-D-27] The ML prediction results built into the model (e.g. expected outcomes). |

| Threat ID | T-AIML-MP-03 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Learning Algorithm Poisoning |
| Threat description | The adversary has access to the code of an untrained model. The learning algorithm is altered to cause the model to make incorrect predictions. |
| Threat type | Tampering |
| Vulnerabilities | Insufficient access controls to the model’s code [i.33] Inadequate monitoring and logging of model’s activity [i.32] Weak access protection mechanisms for ML model components [i.32] Lack of code integrity checking |
| Impact type | Integrity |
| Affected Assets | [ASSET-C-12] ML components deploying machine learning (xApps, rApps). |

| Threat ID | T-AIML-MP-04 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Model Control |
| Threat description | An adversary takes control of the model parameters by either generating a Trojan trigger and inserting it in the model or by sending malicious local model updates in federated learning |
| Threat type | Tampering |
| Vulnerabilities | Vulnerabilities in ML model storage, vulnerabilities in ML model transfer |
| Impact type | Integrity |
| Affected Assets | ML components deploying machine learning [ASSET-C-12] The trained ML model [ASSET-D-26], The ML prediction results built into the model [ASSET-D-27], The behavior of the ML system [ASSET-D-28]. |

#### Model Skewing Attacks

| Threat ID | T-AIML-MS-01 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Data Manipulation for Model Skewing |
| Threat description | The attacker manipulates the data involved in the training of the model. The attacker modifies/injects the training data with modified data, or modifies the labels associated with the training data, resulting in learnt model behaviour to be changed. The impacted models have reduced accuracy / biased trained models, thereby the ability to make correct predications is compromised, or the output is biased. The model skewing attacks can significantly impact the operation of networks causing service disruptions, reputational damage, and financial losses. |
| Threat type | Tampering, (Applicable Threats T-SMO-11, T-SMO-12, T-SMO-31, t_rApps_05) |
| Impact type | Integrity, and use-case specific impacts on O-RAN network. |
| Affected Assets | Trained ML model, ML Prediction Results, ML system |

| Threat ID | T-AIML-MS-02 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Feedback Manipulation for Model Skewing |
| Threat description | The attacker manipulates the feedback mechanisms used by the AI/ML for continuous improvement during deployment. The attack can significantly impact the operation of networks causing service disruptions, reputational damage, and financial losses. |
| Threat type | Tampering, (Applicable Threats T-SMO-11, T-SMO-12, T-SMO-31, t_rApps_05) |
| Impact type | Integrity, and use-case specific impacts on O-RAN network. |
| Affected Assets | Trained ML model, ML Prediction Results, ML system |

#### Transfer Learning Attack

| Threat ID | T-AIML-TL-01 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Data Poisoning for Transfer Learning |
| Threat description | Attackers can poison the source model's training data by injecting malicious samples, which get propagated into the target model during transfer learning, causing misclassification or unintended behaviour in the latter. |
| Threat type | Tampering |
| Impact type | Integrity |
| Affected Assets | Database holding data from xApp applications and E2 Node, Training or test data sets collected externally or internally, Trained ML model, ML components deploying machine learning (xApps, rApps), Near-RT-RIC SW, Non-RT-RIC SW |

| Threat ID | T-AIML-TL-02 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Model Stealing for Transfer Learning |
| Threat description | By using a series of carefully crafted queries to the source model, attackers can extract sensitive information about its architecture and parameters, which they can then use to build a similar model for malicious purposes. |
| Threat type | Information disclosure |
| Impact type | Confidentiality |
| Affected Assets | Database holding data from xApp applications and E2 Node, Training or test data sets collected externally or internally, Trained ML model, ML components deploying machine learning (xApps, rApps), Near-RT-RIC SW, Non-RT-RIC SW |

| Threat ID | T-AIML-TL-03 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Adversarial Examples |
| Threat description | Attackers can create input samples that fool both the source and target models, even if these inputs are visually or semantically similar to benign ones. These adversarial examples can be used to bypass security systems or cause misclassifications in critical applications like self-driving cars or healthcare. |
| Threat type | Tampering |
| Impact type | Integrity |
| Affected Assets | Database holding data from xApp applications and E2 Node, Training or test data sets collected externally or internally, Trained ML model, Near-RT-RIC SW, Non-RT-RIC SW |

| Threat ID | T-AIML-TL-04 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Backdoor for Transfer Learning |
| Threat description | Attackers can embed hidden malicious functionality into the source model, which remains dormant until triggered by specific input patterns. When the trojans are transferred to the target model, they can cause unexpected behaviour or leak sensitive information. |
| Threat type | Tampering, Information disclosure |
| Impact type | Authenticity, Integrity, Availability, Confidentiality |
| Affected Assets | Database holding data from xApp applications and E2 Node, Training or test data sets collected externally or internally, Trained ML model, ML components deploying machine learning (xApps, rApps), Near-RT-RIC SW, Non-RT-RIC SW |

#### AI Energy-Latency Attack

| Threat ID | T-AIML-EL-01 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Model Extraction |
| Threat description | By monitoring the energy and latency patterns, an attacker might deduce the structure of the neural network, including the types of layers, their sequence, and possibly hyperparameters. |
| Threat type | Information disclosure |
| Impact type | Confidentiality |
| Affected Assets | Database holding data from xApp applications and E2 Node [ASSET-D-10],  Trained ML model [ASSET-D-26],  Near-RT-RIC SW [ASSET-C-02],  Non-RT-RIC SW [ASSET-C-11], AAL software [ASSET-C-29], Hardware accelerator device firmware [ASSET-C-30] |

| Threat ID | T-AIML-EL-02 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Data Inference |
| Threat description | Observing the energy and latency signatures of different computations could allow an attacker to make inferences about the input data, potentially leading to privacy breaches, especially if the data is sensitive. |
| Threat type | Information disclosure |
| Impact type | Confidentiality |
| Affected Assets | Database holding data from xApp applications and E2 Node [ASSET-D-10],  Near-RT-RIC SW [ASSET-C-02],  Non-RT-RIC SW [ASSET-C-11], AAL software [ASSET-C-29], Hardware accelerator device firmware [ASSET-C-30] |

| Threat ID | T-AIML-EL-03 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Denial of Service via Side Channels |
| Threat description | An attacker could exploit these side channels to craft inputs that maximize energy consumption or computation time, leading to a denial of service by overloading the system or draining battery life. |
| Threat type | Denial of service |
| Vulnerabilities | Vulnerabilities in data sources |
| Impact type | Availability |
| Affected Assets | Database holding data from xApp applications and E2 Node [ASSET-D-10],  Trained ML model [ASSET-D-26],  Near-RT-RIC SW [ASSET-C-02],  Non-RT-RIC SW [ASSET-C-11], AAL software [ASSET-C-29], Hardware accelerator device firmware [ASSET-C-30] |

#### Evasion attack

| Threat ID | T-AIML-EV-01 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Grey-box based Data Evasion |
| Threat description | Possibility to tamper with the input to AI ML application during the inference phase in the Near-RT RIC or Non-RT RIC (model, model parameters, etc.) for example the model's gradient |
| Threat type | Tampering |
| Impact type | Integrity |
| Affected Assets | Database holding data from xApp applications and E2 Node,  Training or test data sets collected externally or internally,  Trained ML model,  Near-RT-RIC SW,  Non-RT-RIC SW |

### Protocol Stack Threats

The A1 and R1 interfaces use the REST protocol stack shown in the figure below.  The transport network layer is built on IP transport. TCP provides the communication service at the transport layer.  HTTP is the application-level protocol used providing reliable transport of messages.  TLS provides secure HTTP connections for secure transport of messages.  The application layer protocol is based on a RESTful approach with transfer of JSON formatted policy statements. Each of these protocols has known vulnerabilities that can be exploited by a malicious actor.

| Threat ID | T-ProtocolStack-01 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | REST API Exploits |
| Threat description | REST API common attacks include injection, cross site scripting, and DoS attacks that can exploit common vulnerabilities if proper controls are not used to protect against vulnerabilities. |

| Threat ID | T-ProtocolStack-02 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | REST API – Broken Object Level Authorization |
| Threat description | The REST API can be exploited to expose object identifiers without proper authorization checks. |

| Threat ID | T-ProtocolStack-03 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | JSON Exploits |
| Threat description | JSON attacks include injection, deserialization, web token, and cross site scripting attacks that can exploit common vulnerabilities if proper controls are not used to protect against vulnerabilities. |

| Threat ID | T-ProtocolStack-04 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | HTTP Exploits |
| Threat description | DDoS attacks include HTTP GET Flood, Garbage Flood, and Reverse Bandwidth Floods.  Other well known HTTP attacks include injection attacks, such as Cross-Site Scripting (XSS) and SQL injection. |

| Threat ID | T-ProtocolStack-05 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | TCP Volumetric DDoS |
| Threat description | TCP DDoS attacks include TCP SYN Flood, ACK Flood, and RST Flood. |

### SMO Threats

#### General SMO Threats

| Threat ID | T-SMO-01 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | External attacker exploits authentication weakness on SMO |
| Threat description | An external attacker can exploit the improper/missing authentication weakness on SMO functions. If the authentication of O-RAN subjects on A1, O1, O2, and External interfaces on SMO is not supported or not properly implemented, those interfaces without proper credentials could be exploited to gain access to the SMO. |
| Threat type | Spoofing |
| Impact type | Authenticity |
| Affected Asset | SMO |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-02 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | External attacker exploits authorization weakness on SMO |
| Threat description | An external attacker can exploit the improper/missing authorization weakness on SMO functions.  A malicious external entity on A1, O1, O2, and External interfaces without authorization or with an incorrect access token may invoke the SMO functions. The data at rest related to that function will be leaked to the attacker. In addition, an attacker can be able to perform certain actions, e.g.  disclose O-RAN sensitive information or alter O-RAN components. |
| Threat type | Elevation of Privilege, Information Disclosure |
| Impact type | Authorization. Confidentiality |
| Affected Asset | SMO |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-03 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | External Overload DoS attack targeted at SMO |
| Threat description | Overload situation could appear in the case of DoS attack or increased traffic on externally facing interfaces. Inability to mitigate traffic volumetric attacks on an external interface affects availability of SMO data and functions. |
| Threat type | Denial of Service |
| Impact type | Availability |
| Affected Asset | SMO |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-04 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Internal attacker exploits authentication weakness on a SMO function |
| Threat description | An internal attacker can exploit the improper/missing authentication weakness on SMO functions.  If the authentication of internal interfaces (e.g. Internal Message Bus and R1) on SMO is not supported or not properly implemented, those interfaces without credentials could exploited to gain access to the SMO. |
| Threat type | Spoofing |
| Impact type | Authenticity |
| Affected Asset | SMO |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-05 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Internal attacker exploits authorization weakness on a SMO function |
| Threat description | An internal attacker can exploit the improper/missing authorization weakness on SMO functions.  Malicious internal entities without authorization or with an incorrect access token may invoke the SMO functions. The data at rest related to these functions will be leaked to the attacker. In addition, an attacker can be able to perform certain actions, e.g.  disclose O-RAN sensitive information or alter O-RAN components. |
| Threat type | Elevation of Privilege, Information Disclosure |
| Impact type | Authorization |
| Affected Asset | SMO |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-06 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Internal Overload DoS attack targeted at SMO functions |
| Threat description | Overload situation could appear in the case of DoS attack or increased traffic on internal SMO interfaces. Inability to mitigate traffic volumetric attacks on an external interface affects availability of SMO data and functions. |
| Threat type | Denial of Service |
| Impact type | Availability |
| Affected Asset | SMO |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-07 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Internal DoS attack disables internal SMO function(s) or process(es) |
| Threat description | Internal malicious actor exploits a vulnerability or escalates privilege to execute a DoS attack by disabling one or more SMO processes or functions. Inability to detect and report such events affects availability of SMO functions. |
| Threat type | Denial of Service, Escalation of Privilege |
| Impact type | Availability |
| Affected Asset | SMO |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-08 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Attacker exploits insecure API to gain access to SMO |
| Threat description | An insecure API may allow access to a system for an attacker to conduct remote code execution or an advanced persistent threat |
| Threat type | Tampering, Information Disclosure, Escalation of Privilege |
| Impact type | Integrity, Confidentiality, Authorization |
| Affected Asset | SMO |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-09 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Sensitive data in transit is exposed to an internal attacker |
| Threat description | Unprotected data transferred between internal SMO functions is disclosed to an internal threat actor |
| Threat type | Information Disclosure |
| Impact type | Confidentiality |
| Affected Asset | SMO |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-10 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Sensitive data at rest is exposed to an internal attacker |
| Threat description | Unprotected data stored on the SMO is disclosed to an internal threat actor that has gain authorized access through privilege escalation |
| Threat type | Information Disclosure |
| Impact type | Confidentiality |
| Affected Asset | SMO |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-11 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | AI/ML poisoning by internal attacker |
| Threat description | Internal attacker gains authorized access exploited to poison AI/ML training data,or the AI/ML models, stored in the SMO to influence insights. |
| Threat type | Tampering |
| Impact type | Integrity |
| Affected Asset | SMO |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-12 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | AI/ML exposure on external entity |
| Threat description | An external attacker can gain access to external entities to view or modify sensitive data AI/ML data, or models, transferred between the external function and SMO via external interfaces(e.g., EI, Human-Machine, A1, O1) |
| Threat type | Information disclosure, Tampering |
| Impact type | Confidentiality, Integrity |
| Affected Asset | SMO |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-13 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Malicious actor views local logs |
| Threat description | Malicious actor accesses locally stored logs in the SMO to perform reconnaissance to collect sensitive or private information. |
| Threat type | Information disclosure |
| Impact type | Confidentiality |
| Affected Asset | SMO |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-14 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Malicious actor modifies local log entries |
| Threat description | Malicious actor accesses locally stored logs in the SMO to modify entries to hide presence or cause confusion. |
| Threat type | Tampering |
| Impact type | Integrity |
| Affected Asset | SMO |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-15 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Malicious actor deletes local log entries |
| Threat description | Malicious actor accesses locally stored logs in the SMO to delete entries to hide presence or cause confusion. |
| Threat type | Tampering |
| Impact type | Integrity |
| Affected Asset | SMO |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-16 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Malicious actor intercepts exports of local logs |
| Threat description | Malicious actor gains access to an external interface to intercept data in transit as logs are transferred from the SMO to a remote server/external entity. |
| Threat type | Information disclosure |
| Impact type | Confidentiality |
| Affected Asset | SMO |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-17 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Malicious external actor gains unauthorized access to logs |
| Threat description | Malicious external actor gains unauthorized access to stored logs to view, modify, and delete |
| Threat type | Elevation of Privilege |
| Impact type | Confidentiality |
| Affected Asset | SMO |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-18 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Malicious internal actor gains authorized access to logs |
| Threat description | Malicious internal actor gains authorized access to stored logs to view, modify, and delete. |
| Threat type | Elevation of Privilege |
| Impact type | Authorization |
| Affected Asset | SMO |

#### SMO Threats at O2 interface

| Threat ID | T-SMO-19 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Internal attacker exploits O2 interface to view data in transit between SMO and O-Cloud |
| Threat description | If the O2 interface is not properly confidentiality protected, an internal attacker can perform a man-in-the-middle attack to view data in transit. |
| Threat type | Information disclosure |
| Impact type | Confidentiality |
| Affected Asset | O2 interface |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-20 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Internal attacker exploits O2 interface to modify data in transit between SMO and O-Cloud |
| Threat description | If the O2 interface is not properly integrity protected, an internal attacker can perform a man-in-the-middle attack to modify data in transit. |
| Threat type | Tampering |
| Impact type | Integrity |
| Affected Asset | O2 interface |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-21 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Internal attacker uses O2 interface via SMO to exploit API vulnerability to gain access to O-Cloud infrastructure |
| Threat description | If the O2 interface uses an API with a known vulnerability that is not properly protected or patched, an attacker can exploit it to gain access to the O-Cloud infrastructure from the SMO. |
| Threat type | Spoofing |
| Impact type | Authenticity |
| Affected Asset | O-Cloud |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-22 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Internal attacker floods O2 interface via SMO to cause DDoS on O-Cloud infrastructure |
| Threat description | If the O2 interface is not protected, an internal attacker on the SMO can flood the O2 interface to overload the O-Cloud.  This can prevent legitimate messages from reaching the O-Cloud or cause heavy processing at the O-Cloud, resulting in performance degradation. |
| Threat type | Denial of Service |
| Impact type | Availability |
| Affected Asset | O-Cloud |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-23 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | External attacker uses O2 interface via O-Cloud to exploit API vulnerability to gain access to SMO |
| Threat description | If the O2 interface uses an API with a known vulnerability that is not properly protected or patched, an attacker can exploit it to gain access to the SMO from the O-Cloud infrastructure. |
| Threat type | Spoofing |
| Impact type | Authenticity |
| Affected Asset | SMO |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-24 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | External attacker floods O2 interface via O-Cloud to cause DDoS on SMO |
| Threat description | If the O2 interface is not protected, an external attacker in the O-Cloud can flood the O2 interface to overload the SMO.  This can prevent legitimate messages from reaching the SMO or cause heavy processing at the SMO, resulting in performance degradation or outage of the SMO. |
| Threat type | Denial of Service |
| Impact type | Availability |
| Affected Asset | SMO |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-25 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | External attacker uses O2 interface via O-Cloud to gain authorized access to sensitive data-at-rest at the SMO |
| Threat description | If the SMO is not protected, an external attacker at the O-Cloud can use the O2 interface to gain authorized access to the SMO to view data-at-rest. |
| Threat type | Elevation of Privilege |
| Impact type | Authorization |
| Affected Asset | SMO |

#### SMO Threats at External interfaces

| Threat ID | T-SMO-26 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | External attacker exploits External interface to view data in transit between SMO and external service |
| Threat description | If an External interface is not properly confidentiality protected, an external attacker can perform a man-in-the-middle attack to view data in transit. |
| Threat type | Information disclosure |
| Impact type | Confidentiality |
| Affected Asset | External interface |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-27 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | External attacker exploits External interface to modify data in transit between SMO and external service |
| Threat description | If an External interface is not properly integrity protected, an external attacker can perform a man-in-the-middle attack to modify data in transit. |
| Threat type | Tampering |
| Impact type | Integrity |
| Affected Asset | External interface |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-28 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | External attacker uses External interface to exploit API vulnerability to gain access to SMO |
| Threat description | If an External interface uses an API with a known vulnerability that is not properly protected or patched, an attacker can exploit it to gain access to the SMO. |
| Threat type | Spoofing |
| Impact type | Authenticity |
| Affected Asset | SMO |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-29 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | External attacker floods External interface to cause DDoS at SMO |
| Threat description | If the External interface is not protected, an external attacker can flood an External interface to overload the SMO.  This can prevent legitimate messages and data from reaching the SMO or cause heavy processing at the SMO, resulting in performance degradation or outage of the SMO. |
| Threat type | Denial of Service |
| Impact type | Availability |
| Affected Asset | SMO |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-30 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | External attacker uses External interface to gain access to sensitive data-at-rest at the SMO |
| Threat description | If the SMO is not protected, an external attacker can use the External interface to gain authorized access to the SMO to view data-at-rest. |
| Threat type | Elevation of Privilege |
| Impact type | Authorization |
| Affected Asset | SMO |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-31 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | External attacker poisons External AI/ML data to corrupt SMO |
| Threat description | External data sources may be outside the control of the stakeholder(s) responsible for the O-RAN deployment.  The stakeholder for an External data source could fail to provide proper security controls to protect data consumed by the SMO.  If an external attacker were to gain access to AI/ML data, it could be corrupted and then be used at the SMO. |
| Threat type | Tampering |
| Impact type | Integrity |
| Affected Asset | SMO |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-32 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | External attacker poisons External Enrichment Information data sources to corrupt SMO |
| Threat description | External data sources may be outside the control of the stakeholder(s) responsible for the O-RAN deployment.  The stakeholder for an External data source could fail to provide proper security controls to protect data consumed by the SMO.  If an external attacker were to gain access to External Enrichment Information, it could be corrupted and then be used at the SMO. |
| Threat type | Tampering |
| Impact type | Integrity |
| Affected Asset | SMO |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-33 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | rApp floods SME |
| Threat description | Misbehaving 3rd-party rApp, maliciously or non-maliciously, floods internal SMOS Communication interface targeting the SME to bring a volumetric DDoS attack against the SMO. |
| Threat type | Denial of Service |
| Vulnerabilities | No flood protection |
| Impact type | Availability |
| Affected Asset | SMO, SME |

| Threat ID | T-SMO-34 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | External Consumer floods SME |
| Threat description | External Source, maliciously or non-maliciously, floods the External interface targeting the SME to bring a volumetric DDoS attack against the SMO. |
| Threat type | Denial of Service |
| Vulnerabilities | No flood protection |
| Impact type | Availability |
| Affected Asset | SMO, SME |

### Threats against Shared O-RU

Threat Analysis tables are provided for each of the identified Shared O-RU threats in the clauses below. The Shared O-RU Threats are classified into 6 threat groups:

- Lateral Movement Between Network Functions
- Physical Port Access Threats
- Data Access Threats
- Availability Threats
- Configuration Threats
- Resiliency Threats
Use of the term “MNO Tenant” or “Tenant” refers to a “Shared Resource Operator (SRO)” as defined in [i.27].

#### Lateral Movement Between Network Functions

This clause provides threat analysis tables for threats to access between Shared O-RU network functions.

| Threat ID | T-SharedORU-01 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | O-DU Tenant accesses O-DU Host |
| Threat description | The O-DU Tenant accesses the O-DU Host through the Shared O-RU.  Weak authentication can be exploited by a tenant to move laterally across the deployment. |
| Threat type | Spoofing |
| Impact type | Authenticity |
| Affected Asset | O-DU Host |

| Threat ID | T-SharedORU-02 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | O-DU Host accesses O-DU Tenant |
| Threat description | The O-DU Host accesses the O-DU Tenant through the Shared O-RU. Weak authentication can be exploited by a host to move laterally across the deployment. |
| Threat type | Spoofing |
| Impact type | Authenticity |
| Affected Asset | O-DU Tenant |

| Threat ID | T-SharedORU-03 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | O-DU Tenant accesses O-DU Tenant |
| Threat description | An O-DU Tenant accesses another O-DU Tenant through the Shared O-RU supporting multiple tenants.  Weak authentication can be exploited by a tenant to move laterally across the deployment. |
| Threat type | Spoofing |
| Impact type | Authenticity |
| Affected Asset | O-DU Tenant |

| Threat ID | T-SharedORU-04 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Password Attack on OFH M-Plane |
| Threat description | Use of single-factor authentication with password on the Open Fronthaul M-Plane can be exploited by an internal malicious actor to gain access to the Shared O-RU.  The attack can be a brute-force attack or stolen password.  There is increased risk of password attack in a multi-tenant environment. The internal malicious actor may be the Host MNO, a Tenant MNO, or a 3rd-party. [i.9] |
| Threat type | Spoofing |
| Impact type | Authenticity |
| Affected Asset | Shared O-RU, O-DU Host, O-DU Tenant |

| Threat ID | T-SharedORU-05 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Untrusted peering to O-DU |
| Threat description | Attacker exploits weak authentication on the O-DU to establish a session with a malicious app masquerading as a Shared O-RU.  From the O-DU, a malicious actor can move laterally across Shared O-RUs and northbound to the O-CU and SMO. |
| Threat type | Spoofing |
| Impact type | Authenticity |
| Affected Asset | O-DU Host, O-DU Tenant |

| Threat ID | T-SharedORU-06 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Untrusted peering to the Shared O-RU |
| Threat description | Attacker exploits weak authentication on the Shared O-RU to establish session with a malicious app masquerading as a O-DU Host or O-DU Tenant |
| Threat type | Spoofing |
| Impact type | Authenticity |
| Affected Asset | Shared O-RU |

| Threat ID | T-SharedORU-07 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Untrusted peering to the SMO |
| Threat description | Attacker exploits weak authentication on the SMO to establish session with a malicious app masquerading as a Shared O-RU. |
| Threat type | Spoofing |
| Impact type | Authenticity |
| Affected Asset | SMO Host, SMO Tenant |

| Threat ID | T-SharedORU-08 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | SMO Tenant accesses SMO Host |
| Threat description | The SMO Tenant accesses the SMO Host through the Shared O-RU.  Weak authentication can be exploited by a tenant to move laterally across the deployment. |
| Threat type | Spoofing |
| Impact type | Authenticity |
| Affected Asset | SMO Host |

| Threat ID | T-SharedORU-09 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | SMO Host accesses SMO Tenant |
| Threat description | The SMO Host accesses the SMO Tenant through the Shared O-RU. Weak authentication can be exploited by a host to move laterally across the deployment. |
| Threat type | Spoofing |
| Impact type | Authenticity |
| Affected Asset | SMO Tenant |

| Threat ID | T-SharedORU-10 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | O-DU Host accesses O-CU Tenant |
| Threat description | The O-DU Host accesses the O-CU Tenant through the Shared O-RU. Weak authentication can be exploited by a host to move laterally across the deployment. |
| Threat type | Spoofing |
| Impact type | Authenticity |
| Affected Asset | O-CU Tenant |

| Threat ID | T-SharedORU-11 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | O-DU Tenant accesses O-CU Host |
| Threat description | The O-DU Tenant accesses the O-CU Host through the Shared O-RU. Weak authentication can be exploited by a host to move laterally across the deployment. |
| Threat type | Spoofing |
| Impact type | Authenticity |
| Affected Asset | O-CU Host |

| Threat ID | T-SharedORU-12 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | O-DU Tenant accesses O-CU Tenant |
| Threat description | The O-DU Tenant accesses another O-CU Tenant through the Shared O-RU supporting multiple tenants. Weak authentication can be exploited by a host to move laterally across the deployment. |
| Threat type | Spoofing |
| Impact type | Authenticity |
| Affected Asset | O-CU Tenant |

| Threat ID | T-SharedORU-13 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | SMO Host accesses O-CU Tenant |
| Threat description | The SMO Host accesses the O-CU Tenant through the Shared O-RU. Weak authentication can be exploited by a host to move laterally across the deployment. |
| Threat type | Spoofing |
| Impact type | Authenticity |
| Affected Asset | O-CU Tenant |

| Threat ID | T-SharedORU-14 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | SMO Tenant accesses O-CU Host |
| Threat description | The SMO Tenant accesses the O-CU Host through the Shared O-RU. Weak authentication can be exploited by a host to move laterally across the deployment. |
| Threat type | Spoofing |
| Impact type | Authenticity |
| Affected Asset | O-CU Host |

#### Physical Port Access Threats

This clause provides threat analysis tables for physical port access threats to Shared O-RU.

| Threat ID | T-SharedORU-15 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Physical port access to Shared O-RU Host/Tenant |
| Threat description | A host, tenant, or third-party gains physical port connectivity to the Shared O-RU.  With this physical access the actor exploits weak physical layer authentication to gain access to the Shared O-RU. |
| Threat type | Spoofing |
| Impact type | Authenticity |
| Affected Asset | Shared O-RU |

| Threat ID | T-SharedORU-16 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Physical port access to O-DU Host/Tenant |
| Threat description | A host, tenant, or third-party gains physical port connectivity to a O-DU Host or O-DU Tenant.  With this physical access the actor exploits weak physical layer authentication to gain access to the O-DU. |
| Threat type | Spoofing |
| Impact type | Authenticity |
| Affected Asset | O-DU Host, O-DU Tenant |

| Threat ID | T-SharedORU-17 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Physical port access to O-CU Host/Tenant |
| Threat description | A host, tenant, or third-party gains physical port connectivity to a O-CU Host or O-CU Tenant.  With this physical access the actor exploits weak physical layer authentication to gain access to the O-CU. |
| Threat type | Spoofing |
| Impact type | Authenticity |
| Affected Asset | O-CU Host, O-CU Tenant |

| Threat ID | T-SharedORU-18 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Malicious User Login Attempt to SMO Host/Tenant |
| Threat description | The attacker attempts to access the SMO Host or SMO tenant though a management interface.  The attacker may be an internal or external actor.  Weak account management and/or authentication can be exploited to gain access to move laterally across the deployment for nefarious purposes such as reconnaissance or damage. |
| Threat type | Spoofing |
| Impact type | Authenticity |
| Affected Asset | SMO Host, SMO Tenant |

| Threat ID | T-SharedORU-19 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Malicious User Login Attempt to O-CU Host/Tenant |
| Threat description | The attacker attempts to access the O-CU Host or O-CU Tenant though a management interface.  The attacker may be an internal or external actor.  Weak account management and/or authentication can be exploited to gain access to move laterally across the deployment for nefarious purposes such as reconnaissance or damage. |
| Threat type | Spoofing |
| Impact type | Authenticity |
| Affected Asset | O-CU Host, O-CU Tenant |

| Threat ID | T-SharedORU-20 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Malicious User Login Attempt to O-DU Host/Tenant |
| Threat description | The attacker attempts to access the O-DU Host or O-DU Tenant though a management interface.  The attacker may be an internal or external actor.  Weak account management and/or authentication can be exploited to gain access to move laterally across the deployment for nefarious purposes such as reconnaissance or damage. |
| Threat type | Spoofing |
| Impact type | Authenticity |
| Affected Asset | O-DU Host, O-DU Tenant |

| Threat ID | T-SharedORU-21 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Malicious User Login Attempt to Shared O-RU Host/Tenant |
| Threat description | The attacker attempts to access the O-RU Host or O-RU Tenant though a management interface.  The attacker may be an internal or external actor.  Weak account management and/or authentication can be exploited to gain access to move laterally across the deployment for nefarious purposes such as reconnaissance or damage. |
| Threat type | Spoofing |
| Impact type | Authenticity |
| Affected Asset | Shared O-RU |

#### Data Access Threats

This clause provides threat analysis tables for threats to Shared O-RU data access.

| Threat ID | T-SharedORU-22 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Unauthorized internal threat actor gains access to data in Shared O-RU |
| Threat description | Malicious internal threat actor exploits compromised credentials or weak or misconfigured authorization to gain access to view or modify sensitive data-at-rest or data-in-use in the Shared O-RU. |
| Threat type | Elevation of Privilege |
| Impact type | Authorization |
| Affected Asset | Shared O-RU |

| Threat ID | T-SharedORU-23 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Unauthorized external threat actor gains access to data in Shared O-RU |
| Threat description | Malicious external threat actor exploits compromised credentials or weak or misconfigured authorization to gain access to view or modify sensitive data-at-rest or data-in-use in the Shared O-RU. |
| Threat type | Elevation of Privilege |
| Impact type | Authorization |
| Affected Asset | Shared O-RU |

| Threat ID | T-SharedORU-24 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Data exposure at Shared O-RU |
| Threat description | Data-at-rest on the Shared O-RU is exposed to a tenant.  Attacker exploits weak confidentiality protection to view data owned by the MNO Host or a MNO Tenant. |
| Threat type | Information Disclosure |
| Impact type | Confidentiality |
| Affected Asset | Shared O-RU |

| Threat ID | T-SharedORU-25 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Shared O-RU data exposure at SMO |
| Threat description | Data-at-rest on the SMO related to a Shared O-RU is exposed to an unauthorized tenant / SMO user.  Attacker exploits weak confidentiality protection to view data owned by the MNO Host or a MNO Tenant of a shared O-RU. |
| Threat type | Information Disclosure |
| Impact type | Confidentiality |
| Affected Asset | Shared O-RU |

| Threat ID | T-SharedORU-26 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Shared O-RU data exposure at O-DU |
| Threat description | Data-at-rest on the O-DU related to a Shared O-RU is exposed to an unauthorized tenant.  Attacker exploits weak confidentiality protection to view data owned by the MNO Host or a MNO Tenant of a shared O-RU. |
| Threat type | Information Disclosure |
| Impact type | Confidentiality |
| Affected Asset | Shared O-RU |

| Threat ID | T-SharedORU-27 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Exposed data in transit between Shared O-RU and O-DU Host/Tenant |
| Threat description | Data-in-transit between the Shared O-RU and an O-DU Host or O-DU Tenant could be exposed to another MNO or malicious threat actor. Weak confidentiality protection of data-in-transit allows the host, tenant, or actor to view intercepted data owned by the MNO Host or a MNO Tenant. |
| Threat type | Information Disclosure |
| Impact type | Confidentiality |
| Affected Asset | Shared O-RU, M-Plane, CUS-Plane |

| Threat ID | T-SharedORU-28 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Exposed data in transit between Shared O-RU and SMO Host/Tenant |
| Threat description | Data-in-transit between the Shared O-RU and a SMO Host or SMO Tenant could be exposed to another MNO or malicious threat actor. Weak confidentiality protection of data-in-transit allows the host, tenant, or actor to view intercepted data owned by the MNO Host or a MNO Tenant. |
| Threat type | Information Disclosure |
| Impact type | Confidentiality |
| Affected Asset | Shared O-RU, O1 |

| Threat ID | T-SharedORU-43 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Eavesdropping of unprotected CUSM-plane data within shared O-RU |
| Threat description | The SMO assigns the role of Host and MNO SRO(s).  The tenant maliciously or intended is obtaining access to transport protocol stack and is therefore able to eavesdrop sensitive data from neighbor tenants and the host. The tenant may have capability for sniffing/capturing of CUSM-plane data. |
| Threat type | Information Disclosure |
| Impact type | Confidentiality |
| Affected Asset | Shared O-RU |

#### Availability Threats

This clause provides threat analysis tables for availability threats to Shared O-RU.

| Threat ID | T-SharedORU-29 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Modify/Delete OFH C-Plane messages |
| Threat description | A Host MNO, Tenant MNO, or 3rd-party, modifies or deletes control plane messages on the OFH C-Plane between the Shared O-RU and Host O-DU or Tenant O-DU.  This type of integrity attack can also result in an availability attack. |
| Threat type | Tampering |
| Impact type | Integrity, Availability |
| Affected Asset | Shared O-RU, O-DU Host, O-DU Tenant, CUS-Plane |

| Threat ID | T-SharedORU-30 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Clock hijacking on OFH S-Plane |
| Threat description | A Host MNO, Tenant MNO, or 3rd-party takes the role of Grand Master clock on the S-Plane to degrade performance on the U-Plane.  This type of authorization exploit can also result in an availability attack. |
| Threat type | Elevation of Privilege |
| Impact type | Authorization, Availability |
| Affected Asset | Shared O-RU, O-DU Host, O-DU Tenant, CUS-Plane |

| Threat ID | T-SharedORU-31 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Parameter conflicts at Shared O-RU |
| Threat description | O-DU Host and O-DU Tenants may force conflicting parameter settings at the Shared O-RU that can degrade performance or cause an outage. |
| Threat type | Denial of Service |
| Impact type | Availability |
| Affected Asset | Shared O-RU |

| Threat ID | T-SharedORU-32 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Volumetric DDoS attack from O-DU targeting Shared O-RU |
| Threat description | An O-DU Host or O-DU Tenant maliciously or unintentionally sends a high-rate of malformed, mis-sequenced, invalid, or valid packets over the Open Fronthaul interface to the Shared O-RU.  This kind of attack can cause a Denial of Service on the Shared O-RU. |
| Threat type | Denial of Service |
| Impact type | Availability |
| Affected Asset | Shared O-RU, M-Plane, CUS-Plane |

| Threat ID | T-SharedORU-33 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Volumetric DDoS attack from SMO targeting Shared O-RU |
| Threat description | The SMO Host maliciously or unintentionally sends a high-rate of malformed, mis-sequenced, invalid, or valid packets over the Open Fronthaul interface to the Shared O-RU.  This kind of attack can cause a Denial of Service on the Shared O-RU. |
| Threat type | Denial of Service |
| Impact type | Availability |
| Affected Asset | Shared O-RU, O1 |

| Threat ID | T-SharedORU-34 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Volumetric DDoS attack targeting O-DU |
| Threat description | Shared O-RU maliciously or unintentionally sends a high-rate of malformed, mis-sequenced, invalid, or valid packets over the Open Fronthaul interface to the O-DU Host or O-DU Tenant.  This kind of attack can cause a Denial of Service on the O-DU. |
| Threat type | Denial of Service |
| Impact type | Availability |
| Affected Asset | O-DU Host, O-DU Tenant, CUS-Plane, M-Plane |

| Threat ID | T-SharedORU-35 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Shared O-RU initialization hijacking by DHCP compromise |
| Threat description | Shared O-RU bootup and initialization sequence depends on parameters passed to it via DHCP options. An attacker can compromise DHCP server and use it to hijack the O-RU and prevent Shared O-RU from reaching carrier-active state. This kind of attack can cause a Denial of Service on the shared O-RU. |
| Threat type | Denial of Service |
| Impact type | Availability |
| Affected Asset | Shared O-RU |

| Threat ID | T-SharedORU-36 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Shared O-RU M-plane hijacking by DNS compromise |
| Threat description | Shared O-RU M-plane initialization depends on DNS, if FQDN is returned as the NETCONF controller of shared O-RU during its initialization. The name resolution of FQDN can be manipulated by an attacker using a compromised DNS server and prevent Shared O-RU from reaching carrier-active state due to unavailability of carrier configuration. This kind of attack can cause a Denial of Service on the shared O-RU. |
| Threat type | Denial of Service |
| Impact type | Availability |
| Affected Asset | Shared O-RU |

#### Configuration Threats

This clause provides threat analysis tables for configuration threats to Shared O-RU.

| Threat ID | T-SharedORU-37 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Misconfiguration of MNO Host Role |
| Threat description | The SMO assigns the role of MNO Host and MNO SRO(s).  The assignment of Host role to the wrong SRO can expose data.  A threat actor could exploit an incorrectly assigned role of Host to control function of the Shared O-RU |
| Threat type | Information Disclosure, Denial of Service |
| Impact type | Confidentiality, Availability |
| Affected Asset | Shared O-RU |

| Threat ID | T-SharedORU-38 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Incorrect Assignment of Spectrum Resources |
| Threat description | Shared O-RU is responsible for assignment and control of spectrum resources, including component carrier and frequencies within a carrier. Tenant access to the wrong resources, due to malicious intent or could be exploited to gain access to information. |
| Threat type | Spoofing |
| Impact type | Authentication |
| Affected Asset | Shared O-RU |

| Threat ID | T-SharedORU-39 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Chain of Trust in a Multi-Tenant Environment |
| Threat description | The Chain of Trust is a certificate-based chain used to authenticate an entity.  The Chain of Trust is established by validating the hardware and software for the entity up to the root certificate as the trust anchor.    The Shared O-RU mutually authenticates O-DU Hosts and O-DU Tenants.  Certificates from O-DU tenants must be validated as trustworthy.  Malicious actors can exploit untrustworthy certificates to gain access to the Shared O-RU. |
| Threat type | Spoofing |
| Impact type | Authentication |
| Affected Asset | Shared O-RU, O-DU Host, O-DU Tenant, O-CU Host, O-CU Tenant, SMO Host, SMO Tenant |

| Threat ID | T-SharedORU-40 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Hijack of MNO Host Role |
| Threat description | The SMO assigns the role of MNO Host and MNO SRO(s).  A tenant may maliciously or unintentionally obtain the host role.  The elevation of privilege would enable the tenant, acting as host, to have authorized access on the Shared O-RU to sensitive data, credentials, and system privileges. |
| Threat type | Elevation of Privilege |
| Impact type | Authorization |
| Affected Asset | Shared O-RU |

| Threat ID | T-SharedORU-41 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Not Released Host Role (Host Role resume) |
| Threat description | The SMO assigns the role of Host and MNO SRO(s).  The tenant maliciously or intended is obtaining the host role, and implicit has obtained elevated privileges which could be used to drive wrong things, like obtaining of sensitive data and/or driving DoS. The tenant is not releasing the host role and/or the tenant is reusing known sensitive information and is driving wrong things. How to avoid that a tenant who has become once in his/her life a host is obtaining information that could be misused now and in the future. |
| Threat type | Elevation of Privilege |
| Impact type | Authorization |
| Affected Asset | Shared O-RU |

| Threat ID | T-SharedORU-42 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Misuse of “sudo” privileges |
| Threat description | The SMO assigns the role of Host and MNO SRO(s).  The tenant maliciously or intended is obtaining the host role, and implicit has obtained elevated privileges which could be used to drive wrong things, like obtaining of sensitive data and/or driving DoS. How to avoid that any of the tenants can misuse the “sudo” privileges. This includes the default credentials of a shared O-RU. |
| Threat type | Elevation of Privilege |
| Impact type | Authorization |
| Affected Asset | Shared O-RU |

| Threat ID | T-SharedORU-55 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Set Incorrect Array-Carrier configuration on O-DU (Standby) |
| Threat description | Threat actor spoofs SMO to set or modify the pre-configured array-carrier configuration on the O-DU in Standby state. |
| Threat type | Spoofing |
| Impact type | Authentication |
| Affected Asset | O-DU, O1 interface |

| Threat ID | T-SharedORU-56 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Modify Array-Carrier pre-configuration on Shared O-RU |
| Threat description | Threat actor can gain access to Shared O-RU to modify its pre-configured array-carrier |
| Threat type | Elevation of Privilege |
| Impact type | Authorization |
| Affected Asset | Shared O-RU |

| Threat ID | T-SharedORU-57 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Modify/Inject M-Plane messages with Array-Carrier configuration |
| Threat description | Threat actor Modifies/Injects M-Plane messages with Array-Carrier configuration sent to the Shared O-RU. |
| Threat type | Tampering |
| Impact type | Integrity |
| Affected Asset | Shared O-RU, M-Plane |

#### Resiliency Threats

This clause provides threat analysis tables for threats introduced by the O-DU Resiliency use case.

| Threat ID | T-SharedORU-52 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Thrashing O-DU Failovers |
| Threat description | Threat actor spoofs SMO to cause O-DU-1 and O-DU-2 to thrash between Active state and Standby state |
| Threat type | Spoofing |
| Impact type | Authentication |
| Affected Asset | O-DU, O1 interface |

| Threat ID | T-SharedORU-53 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Dual (Dueling) Active O-DUs |
| Threat description | Threat actor spoofs SMO to cause O-DU-1 and O-DU-2 to both be in Active state. |
| Threat type | Spoofing |
| Impact type | Authentication |
| Affected Asset | O-DU, O1 interface |

| Threat ID | T-SharedORU-54 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Modify/Inject O1 messages at the SMO |
| Threat description | Threat actor spoofs O-DU to modify, inject, flood O1 messages to the SMO to prevent SMO detection of O-DU failure. |
| Threat type | Tampering |
| Impact type | Integrity |
| Affected Asset | SMO, O1 interface |

### OAuth2.0 Threats

#### General OAuth2.0 Threats

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-G-01 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Obtaining client secrets, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.1.1 |
| Threat description | A malicious actor may access the secrets and tokens of O-RAN architecture elements and use them to replay its refresh tokens and authorization codes. |
| Threat type | Information disclosure Elevation of Privilege |
| Vulnerability | Unsecured tokens and secrets |
| Impact type | Confidentiality Authorization |
| Affected Asset | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-G-02 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Obtaining refresh tokens, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.1.2 |
| Threat description | A malicious actor may get file system access of the local storage of O-RAN architecture elements and read the refresh tokens.  A malicious actor may use the compromised refresh token for a malicious application. |
| Threat type | Information disclosure |
| Vulnerability | A new refresh token was not issued |
| Impact type | Confidentiality |
| Affected Asset | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-G-03 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Obtaining access tokens, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.1.3 |
| Threat description | Access tokens may be stolen by a malicious actor from the local storage if the O-RAN architecture element stores them in a local storage that is accessible to other O-RAN architecture elements or applications without proper access control. |
| Threat type | Elevation of Privilege |
| Vulnerability | Insufficient protection for credentials |
| Impact type | Authorization |
| Affected Asset | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-G-04 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Eavesdropping access tokens, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.3.1 |
| Threat description | A malicious actor may attempt to eavesdrop on access tokens in transit from the authorization server to the O-RAN architecture elements and applications |
| Threat type | Information disclosure |
| Vulnerability | Non authenticated, weakly or incorrectly authenticated communication channels |
| Impact type | Confidentiality |
| Affected Asset | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-G-05 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Disclosure of client credentials during transmission, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.3.3 |
| Threat description | A malicious actor may attempt to eavesdrop the transmission of O-RAN elements credentials between the application and authorization server during the O-RAN elements authentication process or during OAuth token requests. |
| Threat type | Information disclosure |
| Vulnerability | Non authenticated, weakly or incorrectly authenticated communication channels |
| Impact type | Confidentiality |
| Affected Asset | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-G-06 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Open redirectors on client, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.1.5 |
| Threat description | A malicious actor may use an open redirector operated by the O-RAN Applications to construct a redirect URI that will pass the authorization server validation but will send authorization code to an endpoint under the control of a malicious actor. |
| Threat type | Information disclosure |
| Vulnerability | Non authenticated, weakly or incorrectly authenticated communication channels |
| Impact type | Authenticity |
| Affected Asset | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-G-07 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Obtain a deployment-specific secret, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.1.1 |
| Threat description | An attacker may try to gain the secret for a O-RAN client installation, either from a resource server or O-RAN Applications. |
| Threat type | Spoofing |
| Vulnerability | malicious applications, insufficient access control |
| Impact type | Authenticity |
| Affected Asset | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-G-08 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Obtaining authorization by code substitution (OAuth Login), IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.4.1.13 |
| Threat description | An attacker could attempt to log into an application using a victim's identity. Applications relying on identity data provided by an OAuth protected service API to login users are vulnerable to this threat. |
| Threat type | Information Disclosure |
| Vulnerability | Insufficient protection for credentials |
| Impact type | Authorization |
| Affected Asset | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-G-09 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Access token leak in transport/endpoints, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.4.2.1 |
| Threat description | A token may be eavesdropped by an attacker.  The token is sent from the server to the client via a URI fragment of the redirect URI. If the communication is not secured or the endpoint is not secured, the token could be leaked by parsing the returned URI. |
| Threat type | Information Disclosure |
| Vulnerability | Non authenticated, weakly or incorrectly authenticated URI |
| Impact type | Authorization |
| Affected Asset | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-G-10 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Malicious client obtains existing authorization by fraud, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.2.3 |
| Threat description | Authorization servers may wish to automatically process authorization requests from client that have been previously authorized by the user. When the user is redirected to the authorization server's end-user authorization endpoint to grant access, the authorization server detects that the user has already granted access to that particular client. Instead of prompting the user for approval, the authorization server automatically redirects the user back to the client. A malicious client may exploit that feature and try to obtain such an authorization "code" instead of the legitimate client. |
| Threat type | Spoofing Repudiation |
| Vulnerability | Improper authorization process and lack of re-validating the authorization requests |
| Impact type | Authorization Non repudiation |
| Affected Asset | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-G-11 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Malicious client obtains authorization, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.4.2.3 |
| Threat description | A malicious client may attempt to obtain a token by fraud. |
| Threat type | Spoofing Repudiation |
| Vulnerability | Insufficient protection for credentials |
| Impact type | Authorization Non repudiation |
| Affected Asset | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-G-12 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Accidental exposure of passwords at client site, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.4.3.1 |
| Threat description | If the client does not provide enough protection, an attacker could retrieve the passwords for a user. |
| Threat type | Information Disclosure |
| Vulnerability | Insufficient protection for credentials |
| Impact type | Authorization |
| Affected Asset | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-G-13 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Client obtains scopes without end-user authorization and possible misconfigurations, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.4.3.2 |
| Threat description | An O-RAN Application like an rApp or xApp intentionally or unintentionally obtains a token with scope unknown for, or unintended by, the resource owner. |
| Threat type | Tampering Elevation of privilege |
| Vulnerability | misconfiguration |
| Impact type | Confidentiality Authorization |
| Affected Asset | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-G-14 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Client obtains refresh token through automatic authorization, IETF RFC 6819 4.4.3.3 [i.8], clause 4.4.3.3 |
| Threat description | An O-RAN application like an rApp or xApp obtains intentionally or unintentionally a long-term authorization represented by a refresh token even if the resource owner did not intend so. |
| Threat type | Tampering Elevation of privilege |
| Vulnerability | Improper authorization process and lack of re-validating the authorization requests |
| Impact type | Confidentiality Authorization |
| Affected Asset | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-G-15 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Eavesdropping refresh tokens from authorization server, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.5.1 |
| Threat description | An O-RAN Application like an rApp or xApp may eavesdrop on refresh tokens when they are transmitted from the authorization server to the client. |
| Threat type | Tampering Elevation of privilege |
| Vulnerability | Non authenticated, weakly or incorrectly authenticated communication channels |
| Impact type | Confidentiality Authorization |
| Affected Asset | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-G-16 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Obtaining refresh token by online guessing, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.5.3 |
| Threat description | An O-RAN Application like an rApp or xApp may try to guess valid refresh token values and send it using the grant type "refresh_token" in order to obtain a valid access token. |
| Threat type | Tampering Elevation of privilege |
| Vulnerability | Improper authorization process and lack of re-validating the authorization requests |
| Impact type | Confidentiality Authorization |
| Affected Asset | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-G-17 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Refresh token phishing by counterfeit authorization server, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.5.4 |
| Threat description | An O-RAN Application like an rApp or xApp could obtain valid refresh tokens by proxying requests to the authorization server. |
| Threat type | Tampering Spoofing Elevation of privilege |
| Vulnerability | Non authenticated, weakly or incorrectly authenticated communication channels |
| Impact type | Confidentiality Authorization |
| Affected Asset | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-G-18 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Guessing access tokens, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.6.3 |
| Threat description | Access to a single user’s data is possible where an attacker may place a malicious rApp or xApp and attempt to guess the access token values based on knowledge from other access tokens. |
| Threat type | Tampering Elevation of privilege |
| Vulnerability | Insecure generation of access token |
| Impact type | Confidentiality Authorization |
| Affected Asset | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-G-19 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Access token phishing by counterfeit resource server, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.6.4 |
| Threat description | An O-RAN Application like an rApp or xApp may send a valid access token to a counterfeit resource server where the server in turn uses that token to access other services on behalf of the resource owner. |
| Threat type | Tampering Spoofing Elevation of privilege |
| Vulnerability | Insufficient protection for credentials |
| Impact type | Confidentiality Authorization |
| Affected Asset | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-G-20 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Abuse of token by legitimate resource server or client, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.6.5 |
| Threat description | An O-RAN legitimate resource server which is protecting the resources could use an access token to access another resource server. |
| Threat type | Tampering Elevation of privilege |
| Vulnerability | insufficient protection for access control on resource server |
| Impact type | Confidentiality Authorization |
| Affected Asset | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-G-21 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Token leakage via log files and HTTP referrers, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.6.7 |
| Threat description | An O-RAN Application such as an rApp or xApp may incorrectly send the access token in the URI query, allowing the access tokens to be leaked in log files and the HTTP “referer.” |
| Threat type | Tampering Elevation of privilege |
| Vulnerability | Improper implementation of API request |
| Impact type | Confidentiality Authorization |
| Affected Asset | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-G-22 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | User unintentionally grants too much access scope, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.2.2 |
| Threat description | An O-RAN Application such as rApp or xApp may incorrectly implement scoping and end-user authorization, allowing unauthorized access to resources. |
| Threat type | Elevation of Privilege |
| Vulnerability | Misconfiguration, insufficient authorization access |
| Impact type | Authorization |
| Affected Asset | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-G-23 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Leak of confidential data in HTTP proxies, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.6.6 |
| Threat description | As specified in SPS clause 4.7, OAuth HTTP authentication scheme is optional. However, as per [IETF RFC 2616] it relies on the Authorization and WWW-Authenticate headers to distinguish authenticated content so that it can be protected.  Proxies and caches, in particular, may fail to adequately protect requests not using these headers. |
| Threat type | Information disclosure |
| Vulnerability | Non authenticated, weakly or incorrectly authenticated communication channels |
| Impact type | Confidentiality |
| Affected Asset | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 |

| Threat ID | T-OAuth-G-24 |
| --- | --- |
| Threat title | Replay of authorized resource server requests, IETF RFC 6819 [i.8], clause 4.6.2 |
| Threat description | An attacker may attempt to replay valid requests to obtain or modify/delete the O-RAN application data. |
| Threat type | Tampering |
| Vulnerability | Inadequacy of request validation of Resource server |
| Impact type | Integrity |
| Affected Asset | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 |

## Coverage matrix of threats

From the above threats, a threat inventory is developed to provide a mapping between threats, vulnerabilities and assets. For the purposes of this document, threats have been grouped into two categories:

‘O-RAN specific’ comprises threats directly relating to O-RAN architecture elements and interfaces

‘General’ covers threats relating to physical, open source, virtualization, IoT and radio aspects

The threat inventory provides details of each individual threat: threat agents, vulnerabilities, threatened assets and affected components.

| Threat ID | Threat title | Threat agent | Vulnerability | Threatened Asset | Affected Components |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| O-RAN specific threats |  |  |  |  |  |
| T-FRHAUL-01 | An attacker penetrates O-DU and beyond through O-RU or the Fronthaul interface to access or modify sensitive information | All | Heterogeneous security levels between O-RU and O-DU provided by different vendors | ASSET-D-01, ASSET-D-02, ASSET-D-04, ASSET-D-05 | rApps, xApps, O-RU, O-DU, O-CU, Near-RT RIC, Non-RT RIC |
| T-FRHAUL-01A | An attacker penetrates O-DU and beyond through O-RU or the Fronthaul interface to impersonate a legitimate system or user | All | Heterogeneous security levels between O-RU and O-DU provided by different vendors | ASSET-D-01, ASSET-D-02, ASSET-D-04, ASSET-D-05 | rApps, xApps, O-RU, O-DU, O-CU, Near-RT RIC, Non-RT RIC |
| T-FRHAUL-02 | Unauthorized access to Open Front Haul Ethernet L1 physical layer interface(s) to obtain protected information | All | Lack of authentication and access control to the Open Front Haul Ethernet L1 physical layer interface | ASSET-D-01, ASSET-D-02, ASSET-D-04, ASSET-D-05 | rApps, xApps, O-RU, O-DU, O-CU, Near-RT RIC, Non-RT RIC |
| T-FRHAUL-03 | Unauthorized access to Open Front Haul Ethernet L1 physical layer interface(s) to disrupt services | All | Lack of authentication and access control to the Open Front Haul Ethernet L1 physical layer interface | ASSET-D-01, ASSET-D-02, ASSET-D-04, ASSET-D-05 | rApps, xApps, O-RU, O-DU, O-CU, Near-RT RIC, Non-RT RIC |
| T-MPLANE-01 | An attacker attempts to intercept the Fronthaul (MITM) over M Plane to obtain protected information | All | Lack of sufficient security measures in the Fronthaul due to the negative impact on the performance requirements | ASSET-D-02, ASSET-D-03 | Near-RT RIC, Non-RT RIC, O-CU, O-DU, SMO |
| T-MPLANE-02 | An attacker attempts to intercept the Fronthaul (MITM) over M Plane to alter m-plane data | All | Lack of sufficient security measures in the Fronthaul due to the negative impact on the performance requirements | ASSET-D-02, ASSET-D-03 | Near-RT RIC, Non-RT RIC, O-CU, O-DU, SMO |
| T-MPLANE-03 | An attacker attempts to intercept the Fronthaul (MITM) over M Plane to disrupt services | All | Lack of sufficient security measures in the Fronthaul due to the negative impact on the performance requirements | ASSET-D-02, ASSET-D-03 | Near-RT RIC, Non-RT RIC, O-CU, O-DU, SMO |
| T-SPLANE-01 | DoS attack against a Master clock | All | Improper process to monitor and manage the performance of the Master clock ANNOUNCE messages can be sent publicly in clear text | ASSET-D-01 | O-DU, O-RU |
| T-SPLANE-02 | Impersonation of a Master clock (Spoofing) within a PTP network with a fake ANNOUNCE message | All | Inaccurate timing information Improper synchronization between clocks ANNOUNCE messages can be sent publicly in clear text | ASSET-D-01 | O-DU, O-RU |
| T-SPLANE-03 | A Rogue PTP Instance wanting to be a Grand Master | All | Inaccurate timing information Improper synchronization between clocks ANNOUNCE messages can be sent publicly in clear text | ASSET-D-01 | O-DU, O-RU |
| T-SPLANE-04 | Selective interception and removal of PTP timing packets | All | Inaccurate timing information Improper synchronization between clocks ANNOUNCE messages can be sent publicly in clear text | ASSET-D-01 | O-DU, O-RU |
| T-SPLANE-05 | Packet delay manipulation attack | All | Inaccurate timing information Improper synchronization between clocks ANNOUNCE messages can be sent publicly in clear text | ASSET-D-01 | O-DU, O-RU |
| T-CPLANE-01 | Spoofing of DL C-plane messages | All | Lack of authentication could allow an adversary to inject DL C-plane messages | ASSET-D-04 | O-DU, O-RU |
| T-CPLANE-02 | Spoofing of UL C-plane messages | All | Lack of authentication could allow an adversary to inject UL C-plane messages | ASSET-D-04 | O-DU, O-RU |
| T-UPLANE-01 | An attacker attempts to intercept the Fronthaul (MITM) over U-Plane to obtain user data | All | Lack of sufficient security measures in the Fronthaul due to the negative impact on the performance requirements | ASSET-D-05 | O-DU, O-RU |
| T-UPLANE-02 | An attacker attempts to intercept the Fronthaul (MITM) over U-Plane to modify u-plane data | All | Lack of sufficient security measures in the Fronthaul due to the negative impact on the performance requirements | ASSET-D-05 | O-DU, O-RU |
| T-UPLANE-03 | An attacker attempts to intercept the Fronthaul (MITM) over U-Plane to disrupt services | All | Lack of sufficient security measures in the Fronthaul due to the negative impact on the performance requirements | ASSET-D-05 | O-DU, O-RU |
| T-UPLANE-04 | Spoofing and unauthorized access of U-Plane data packets | All | Lack of authentication, and authorization protection for U-Plane data packets | ASSET-D-05 | O-DU, O-RU |
| T-ORU-01 | An attacker stands up a false base station attack by attacking an O-RU | All | False O-RUs | ASSET-C-06, ASSET-C-31, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-33 | O-RU |
| T-O-RU-02 | An attacker leverages the lack of traceability with shared user accounts | All | Local user accounts are shared across entities (e.g., SMO, O-DU) for access | ASSET-D-18 ASSET-D-20 | ASSET-C-06 ASSET-C-12 |
| T-O-RU-03 | An attacker manipulates initial provisioning information | All | Initial provisioning information from the Software configuration server could be manipulated to point to another server rather than the centralized authentication and authorization server | ASSET-D-18 ASSET-D-20 | ASSET-C-06 |
| T-O-RU-04 | An attacker compromises O-RU user information- (i.e., compromises the data integrity, confidentiality of user information) in an external centralized authentication and authorization server | All | Gaps to possibly (1) mismanage O-RU Account information and Credentials, (2) misclassify O-RU users, (3) manipulate O-RU Credentials if not stored securely. | ASSET-D-20 | ASSET-C-06  ASSET-C-26 |
| T-NEAR-RT-01 | Malicious Apps can exploit UE identification, track UE location and change UE priority | All | Malicious xApps may be used to gain access to UE identification location and priority | ASSET-D-21, ASSET-D-22, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-41, ASSET-C-43 | Near-RT RIC, xApps, E2 Functions, Y1 Functions |
| T-NEAR-RT-02 | Risk of a malicious xApp on Near-RT RIC to obtain protected information | All | Improper or missing authentication and authorization of xApps | ASSET-D-10, ASSET D-11, ASSET D-21, ASSET-D-22 | Near-RT RIC, UE, xApps |
| T-NEAR-RT-02A | Risk of a malicious xApp on Near-RT RIC impacting service availability | All | Improper or missing authentication and authorization of xApps | ASSET-D-10, ASSET D-11, ASSET D-21, ASSET-D-22 | Near-RT RIC, UE, xApps |
| T-NEAR-RT-03 | Attackers exploit non authenticated, weakly or incorrectly authenticated Near-RT RIC APIs to obtain protected information | All | Non authenticated, weakly or incorrectly authenticated Near-RT RIC APIs | ASSET-D-09, ASSET-D-10, ASSET D-11, ASSET D-20, ASSET-D-21, ASSET-D-25, ASSET-D-26, ASSET-D-29, ASSET-D-30, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-41, ASSET-C-43 | Near-RT RIC, UE, xApps |
| T-NEAR-RT-03A | Attackers exploit non authenticated, weakly or incorrectly authenticated Near-RT RIC APIs for MiTM attacks | All | Non authenticated, weakly or incorrectly authenticated Near-RT RIC APIs | ASSET-D-09, ASSET-D-10, ASSET D-11, ASSET D-20, ASSET-D-21, ASSET-D-25, ASSET-D-26, ASSET-D-29, ASSET-D-30, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-41, ASSET-C-43 | Near-RT RIC, UE, xApps |
| T-NEAR-RT-04 | Attackers exploit non authorized Near-RT RIC APIs to access resources and services which they are not entitled to use, to obtain protected information. | All | Non-authorized RT RIC APIs | ASSET-D-09, ASSET-D-10, ASSET D-11, ASSET D-20, ASSET-D-21, ASSET-D-25, ASSET-D-26, ASSET-D-29, ASSET-D-30, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-41, ASSET-C-43 | Near-RT RIC, UE, xApps |
| T-NEAR-RT-04A | Attackers exploit non authorized Near-RT RIC APIs to access resources and services which they are not entitled to use, to disrupt services. | All | Non-authorized RT RIC APIs | ASSET-D-09, ASSET-D-10, ASSET D-11, ASSET D-20, ASSET-D-21, ASSET-D-25, ASSET-D-26, ASSET-D-29, ASSET-D-30, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-41, ASSET-C-43 | Near-RT RIC, UE, xApps |
| T-NEAR-RT-05 | Attackers exploit non uniquely identified xApps using a trusted xAppID to access resources and services which they are not entitled to use. | All | Not uniquely identifying xApps using a trusted xAppID | ASSET-D-39, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-09 | Near-RT RIC, xApps |
| T-NONRTRIC-01 | An attacker penetrates the Non-RT RIC to cause a denial of service or degrade the performance | All | Improper or missing authentication and authorization processes on the Non-RT RIC or SMO | ASSET-D-03, ASSET-D-07, ASSET-D-08, ASSET-C-11 | Non-RT RIC, rApps |
| T-NONRTRIC-02 | UE tracking in the Non-RT RIC | All | Malicious rApps may be used to gain access to UE identification | ASSET-D-21, ASSET-D-22, ASSET-C-11 | Non-RT RIC, rApps, UE |
| T-NONRTRIC-03 | Data Corruption/Modification | All | Improper or missing authentication and authorization processes on the Non-RT RIC or SMO | ASSET-C-11 | Non-RT RIC |
| T-NONRTRIC-04 | Attacker exploits non-uniquely identified rApp instances to access services and obtain information | All | Not uniquely identifying rApp instances using a trusted rAppID | ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11 | Non-RT RIC, rApps |
| T-NONRTRIC-05 | Attacker exploits non-uniquely identified rApp instances, gains access to services resulting in a denial of service to correct rApp instance. | All | Non unique rAppID | ASSET-C-10 | rApps |
| T-xAPP-01 | An attacker exploits xApps vulnerabilities and misconfiguration to alter data transmitted over A1 or E2 interfaces. | All | xApp stems from an untrusted or unmaintained source | ASSET-C-03, ASSET-C-05, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10 | O-CU, Near-RT RIC, xApps |
| T-xAPP-01A | An attacker exploits xApps vulnerabilities and misconfiguration to extract sensitive information. | All | xApp stems from an untrusted or unmaintained source | ASSET-C-03, ASSET-C-05 ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10 | O-CU, Near-RT RIC, xApps |
| T-xAPP-01B | An attacker exploits xApps vulnerabilities and misconfiguration to disrupt Near-RT RIC functions | All | xApp stems from an untrusted or unmaintained source | ASSET-C-03, ASSET-C-05, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10 | O-CU, Near-RT RIC, xApps |
| T-xAPP-01C | An attacker exploits xApps vulnerabilities and misconfiguration to gain unauthorized control over Near-RT RIC | All | xApp stems from an untrusted or unmaintained source | ASSET-C-03, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10 | O-CU, Near-RT RIC, xApps |
| T-xAPP-02 | Conflicting xApps impact O-RAN system functions to degrade performance or create a DoS [i.12] | All | xApps may be misconfigured or compromised Failing or misconfigured authentication and authorization in xApp | ASSET-C-03, ASSET-C-05, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10 | O-CU, Near-RT RIC, xApps |
| T-xApp-03 | An attacker compromises xApp isolation to tamper with the underlying system. | All | Vulnerabilities in the underlying system hosting xApps | ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09 | Near-RT RIC, O-Cloud, xApps |
| T-xApp-03A | An attacker compromises xApp isolation to extract sensitive information from co-hosted xApps. | All | Vulnerabilities in the underlying system hosting xApps | ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-09 | Near-RT RIC, xApps |
| T-xApp-03B | An attacker compromises xApp isolation to degrade services. | All | Vulnerabilities in the underlying system hosting xApps | ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09 | Near-RT RIC, O-Cloud, xApps |
| T-xApp-03C | An attacker compromises xApp isolation to gain elevated privileges. | All | Vulnerabilities in the underlying system hosting xApps | ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09 | Near-RT RIC, O-Cloud, xApps |
| T-xApp-04 | False or malicious A1 policies modify behaviour of xApps. | All | xApp functionality exploited by malicious A1 policies | ASSET-D-07, ASSET-D-11, ASSET-C-09 | A1 policies, E2 Node data, xApps |
| T-xApp-05 | False or malicious A1 policies from the Non-RT RIC modify behaviour of xApps to trigger a DoS. | All | xApp functionality exploited by malicious A1 policies | ASSET-D-07, ASSET-D-11, ASSET-C-09 | A1 policies, E2 Node data, xApps |
| T-xApp-06 | False or malicious A1 policies from the Non-RT RIC modify behaviour of xApps to locate a subscriber. | All | xApp functionality exploited by malicious A1 policies | ASSET-D-07, ASSET-D-11, ASSET-C-09 | A1 policies, E2 Node data, xApps |
| T-rAPP-01 | Conflicting rApps impact O-RAN system functions to degrade performance or trigger a DoS | All | rApp stems from an untrusted or unmaintained source | ASSET-C-10 | rApps, Non-RT RIC |
| T-rAPP-02 | An attacker exploits rApp vulnerability for data breach or denial of service | All | rApp management is exposed to the tenant in a web front-end or REST API. These interfaces may contain software vulnerabilities or implement authentication and authorization insufficiently. | ASSET-C-10 | rApps, Non-RT RIC |
| T-rAPP-03 | An attacker exploits rApps misconfiguration | All | Vulnerabilities in the underlying system hosting rApps | ASSET-C-10 | rApps, Non-RT RIC |
| T-rAPP-04 | An attacker bypasses authentication and authorization | All | rApps may be misconfigured or compromised Failing or misconfigured authentication and authorization in rApp | ASSET-C-10 | rApps, Non-RT RIC |
| T-rAPP-05 | An attacker deploys and exploits malicious rApp | All | rApps may be misconfigured or compromised Failing or misconfigured authentication and authorization in rApp | ASSET-C-10 | rApps, Non-RT RIC |
| T-rAPP-06 | An attacker bypasses authentication and authorization using an injection attack | All | rApps may be misconfigured or compromised Failing or misconfigured authentication and authorization in rApp | ASSET-C-10 | rApps, Non-RT RIC |
| T-rAPP-07 | rApp exploits services | All | rApps may be misconfigured or compromised Failing or misconfigured authentication and authorization in rApp | ASSET-C-10 | rApps, Non-RT RIC |
| T-PNF-01 | An attacker compromises a PNF to launch attacks against VNFs/CNFs | All | Vulnerabilities in a PNF deployed in a PNF-VNF/CNF deployments. |  |  |
| T-PNF-01A | An attacker compromises a PNF to launch Denial of Service attacks against VNFs/CNFs | All | Vulnerabilities in a PNF deployed in a PNF-VNF/CNF deployments. |  |  |
| T-SMO-01 | External attacker exploits authentication weakness on SMO | All | Missing or improperly configured authentication | ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-17 | Non-RT RIC, SMO Framework |
| T-SMO-02 | External attacker exploits authorization weakness on SMO | All | Missing or improperly configured authorization | ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-17 | Non-RT RIC, SMO Framework |
| T-SMO-03 | External Overload DoS attack targeted at SMO | All | Lack of overload protection and rate-limiting | ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-17 | Non-RT RIC, SMO Framework |
| T-SMO-04 | Internal attacker exploits authentication weakness on a SMO function | All | Missing or improperly configured authentication | ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-17, ASSET-C-18, ASSET-C-19, ASSET-C-20, ASSET-C-21 |  |
| T-SMO-05 | Internal attacker exploits authorization weakness on a SMO function | All | Missing or improperly configured authorization | ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-17, ASSET-C-18, ASSET-C-19, ASSET-C-20, ASSET-C-21 |  |
| T-SMO-06 | Internal Overload DoS attack targeted at SMO functions | All | Lack of overload protection and rate-limiting | ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-17, ASSET-C-18, ASSET-C-19, ASSET-C-20, ASSET-C-21 |  |
| T-SMO-07 | Internal DoS attack disables internal SMO function(s) or process(es) | All | Privilege escalation or improperly configured authorization | ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-17, ASSET-C-18, ASSET-C-19, ASSET-C-20, ASSET-C-21 |  |
| T-SMO-08 | Attacker exploits insecure API to gain access to SMO | All | API vulnerability | ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-17, ASSET-C-18, ASSET-C-19, ASSET-C-20, ASSET-C-21 |  |
| T-SMO-09 | Sensitive data in transit is exposed to an internal attacker | All | Missing or weak confidentiality protection of data in transit | ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-17, ASSET-C-18, ASSET-C-19, ASSET-C-20, ASSET-C-21 |  |
| T-SMO-10 | Sensitive data at rest is exposed to an internal attacker | All | Missing or weak confidentiality protection of data at rest | ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-17, ASSET-C-18, ASSET-C-19, ASSET-C-20, ASSET-C-21 |  |
| T-SMO-11 | AI/ML poisoning by internal attacker | All | Missing integrity protection of data at rest | ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-17 | Non-RT RIC, SMO Froamework |
| T-SMO-12 | AI/ML exposure on external entity | All | Missing or weak confidentiality protection of data at rest | ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-17 | Non-RT RIC, SMO Framework |
| T-SMO-13 | Malicious actor views local logs | All | Missing or weak confidentiality protection of  data at rest | ASSET-C-17, ASSET-C-18 | SMO Framework, SMO Functions |
| T-SMO-14 | Malicious actor modifies local log entries | All | Missing integrity protection of data at rest | ASSET-C-17, ASSET-C-18 | SMO Framework, SMO Functions |
| T-SMO-15 | Malicious actor deletes local logs | All | Missing integrity protection of  data at rest | ASSET-C-17, ASSET-C-18 | SMO Framework, SMO Functions |
| T-SMO-16 | Malicious actor intercepts exports of local logs | All | Missing or weak confidentiality protection of  data in transit | ASSET-C-17, ASSET-C-18, ASSET-C-26 | SMO Framework, SMO Functions, External interfaces |
| T-SMO-17 | Malicious external actor gains unauthorized access to logs | All | Missing or improperly configured authorization | ASSET-C-17, ASSET-C-18 | SMO Framework, SMO Functions |
| T-SMO-18 | Malicious internal actor gains authorized access to logs | All | Missing or improperly configured authorization | ASSET-C-17, ASSET-C-18 | SMO Framework, SMO Functions |
| T-SMO-19 | Internal attacker exploits O2 interface to view data in transit between SMO and O-Cloud | All | Missing or weak confidentiality protection of data in transit | ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-17, ASSET-C-23 | O-Cloud, SMO, O2 interface |
| T-SMO-20 | Internal attacker exploits O2 interface to modify data in transit between SMO and O-Cloud | All | Missing integrity checking for data in transit | ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-17, ASSET-C-23 | O-Cloud, SMO, O2 interface |
| T-SMO-21 | Internal attacker uses O2 interface via SMO to exploit API vulnerability to gain access to O-Cloud infrastructure | All | API vulnerability | ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-17, ASSET-C-23 | O-Cloud, SMO, O2 interface |
| T-SMO-22 | Internal attacker floods O2 interface via SMO to cause DDoS on O-Cloud infrastructure | All | Lack of overload protection and rate-limiting | ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-17, ASSET-C-23 | O-Cloud, SMO, O2 interface |
| T-SMO-23 | External attacker uses O2 interface via O-Cloud to exploit API vulnerability to gain access to SMO | All | API vulnerability | ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-17, ASSET-C-23 | O-Cloud, SMO, O2 interface |
| T-SMO-24 | External attacker floods O2 interface via O-Cloud to cause DDoS on SMO | All | Lack of overload protection and rate-limiting | ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-17, ASSET-C-23 | O-Cloud, SMO, O2 interface |
| T-SMO-25 | External attacker uses O2 interface via O-Cloud to gain authorized access to sensitive data-at-rest at the SMO | All | Missing or improperly configured authorization | ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-17, ASSET-C-23 | O-Cloud, SMO, O2 interface |
| T-SMO-26 | External attacker exploits External interface to view data in transit between SMO and external service | All | Missing or weak confidentiality protection of data in transit | ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-17, ASSET-C-26 | Non-RT RIC, SMO, External interfaces |
| T-SMO-27 | External attacker exploits External interface to modify data in transit between SMO and external service | All | Missing integrity checking for data in transit | ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-17, ASSET-C-26 | Non-RT RIC, SMO, External interfaces |
| T-SMO-28 | External attacker uses External interface to exploit API vulnerability to gain access to SMO | All | API vulnerability | ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-17, ASSET-C-26 | Non-RT RIC, SMO, External interfaces |
| T-SMO-29 | External attacker floods External interface to cause DDoS at SMO | All | Lack of overload protection and rate-limiting | ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-17, ASSET-C-26, ASSET-C-27, ASSET-C-28 |  |
| T-SMO-30 | External attacker uses External interface to gain access to sensitive data-at-rest at the SMO | All | Missing or improperly configured authorization | ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-17, ASSET-C-26 | Non-RT RIC, SMO, External interfaces |
| T-SMO-31 | External attacker poisons External AI/ML data to corrupt SMO | All | Missing integrity checking for data at rest | ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-17, ASSET-C-26 | Non-RT RIC, SMO, External interfaces |
| T-SMO-32 | External attacker poisons External Enrichment Information data sources to corrupt SMO | All | Missing integrity checking for data at rest | ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-17, ASSET-C-26 | Non-RT RIC, SMO, External interfaces |
| T-SMO-33 | rApp floods SME | All | Misbehaving 3rd-party rApp, maliciously or non-maliciously, floods internal SMOS Communication interface targeting the SME to bring a volumetric DDoS attack against the SMO. | ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-17, | rApps, Non-RT RIC, SMO |
| T-SMO-34 | External Consumer floods SME | All | External Source, maliciously or non-maliciously, floods the External interface targeting the SME to bring a volumetric DDoS attack against the SMO. | ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-17, | rApps, Non-RT RIC, SMO |
| T-R1-01 | A malicious actor gains unauthorized access to R1 services | All | weak mutual authentication | ASSET-C-16 | R1 interface |
| T-R1-02 | Attacker modifies Service Heartbeat message to cause Denial of Service | All | weak mutual authentication | ASSET-C-16 | R1 interface |
| T-R1-03 | Malicious actor bypasses authentication to Request Data | All | weak mutual authentication | ASSET-C-16 | R1 interface |
| T-R1-04 | Malicious actor bypasses authorization to Discover Data | All | weak mutual authentication | ASSET-C-16 | R1 interface |
| T-R1-05 | A malicious actor gains unauthorized access to data | All | weak mutual authentication | ASSET-C-16 | R1 interface |
| T-R1-06 | Malicious actor modifies a Data Request | All | weak mutual authentication | ASSET-C-16 | R1 interface |
| T-R1-07 | Malicious actor compromises Data Delivery to the Data Consumer | All | weak mutual authentication | ASSET-C-16 | R1 interface |
| T-A1-01 | Untrusted peering between Non-RT-RIC and Near-RT-RIC | All | weak mutual authentication | ASSET-C-14 | A1 interface |
| T-A1-02 | Malicious function or application monitors messaging across A1 interface | All | weak mutual authentication | ASSET-C-14 | A1 interface |
| T-A1-03 | Malicious function or application modifies messaging across A1 interface | All | weak mutual authentication | ASSET-C-14 | A1 interface |
| T-A1-04 | Unauthorized access to Non-RT-RIC- or Near-RT-RIC- resources | All | weak service consumer authorization | ASSET-D-07, ASSET-D-08 | A1 interface |
| T-AppLCM-01 | Compromise of App/VNF/CNF update package integrity during onboarding | All | Lack of integrity verification | ASSET-D-15 | Apps/VNFs/CNFs |
| T-AppLCM-02 | Compromise of App/VNF/CNF update image integrity during instantiation | All | Lack of integrity verification | ASSET-D-15 | Apps/VNFs/CNFs images |
| T-AppLCM-03 | Downgrade attack to vulnerable application version | All | Lack of integrity verification | ASSET-D-15 | Apps/VNFs/CNFs |
| T-AppLCM-04 | Attacker exploits missing or improperly defined elements of application’s SecurityDescriptor | All | Misconfiguration | ASSET-D-15 | Apps/VNFs/CNFs |
| T-AppLCM-05 | Malicious actor modifies application’s SecurityDescriptor to gain unauthorized access | All | Lack of authentication, lack of integrity verification | ASSET-D-15 | Apps/VNFs/CNFs |
| T-AppLCM-05A | Malicious actor modifies application’s SecurityDescriptor to degrade services | All | Lack of authentication, lack of integrity verification | ASSET-D-15 | Apps/VNFs/CNFs |
| T-AppLCM-06 | Improper decommissioning of application | All | Improper release of resources and secrets | ASSET-C-02 to ASSER-C-05, ASSET-C-09 to ASSET-C-11 | Apps/VNFs/CNFs |
| T-AppLCM-07 | Improper deletion of application sensitive data | All | Missing or weak confidentiality protection | ASSET-D-16, ASSET-D-17, ASSET-D-32 | Apps/VNFs/CNFs |
| T-SharedORU-01 | O-DU Tenant accesses O-DU Host | All | Weak authentication can be exploited by a tenant to move laterally across the deployment. | ASSET-C-34 | O-DU Host |
| T-SharedORU-02 | O-DU Host accesses O-DU Tenant | All | Weak authentication can be exploited by a host to move laterally across the deployment. | ASSET-C-35 | O-DU Tenant |
| T-SharedORU-03 | O-DU Tenant accesses O-DU Tenant | All | Weak authentication can be exploited by a tenant to move laterally across the deployment. | ASSET-C-35 | O-DU Tenant |
| T-SharedORU-04 | Password Attack on OFH M-Plane | All | The attack can be a brute-force attack or stolen password.  There is increased risk of password attack in a multi-tenant environment. | ASSET-C-31, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-35 | Shared O-RU, O-DU Host, O-DU Tenant |
| T-SharedORU-05 | Untrusted peering to O-DU | All | Attacker exploits weak authentication on the O-DU to establish a session with a malicious app masquerading as a Shared O-RU.  From the O-DU, a malicious actor can move laterally. | ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-35 | O-DU Host, O-DU Tenant |
| T-SharedORU-06 | Untrusted peering to the Shared O-RU | All | Weak authentication can be exploited to establish session with a malicious app masquerading as a O-DU Host or O-DU Tenant | ASSET-C-31 | Shared O-RU |
| T-SharedORU-07 | Untrusted peering to the SMO | All | Weak authentication on the SMO can be exploited to establish session with a malicious app masquerading as a Shared O-RU. | ASSET-C-31 | Shared O-RU |
| T-SharedORU-08 | SMO Tenant accesses SMO Host | All | Weak authentication can be exploited by a tenant to move laterally across the deployment. | ASSET-C-38 | SMO Host |
| T-SharedORU-09 | SMO Host accesses SMO Tenant | All | Weak authentication can be exploited by a tenant to move laterally across the deployment. | ASSET-C-39 | SMO Tenant |
| T-SharedORU-10 | O-DU Host accesses O-CU Tenant | All | Weak authentication can be exploited by a tenant to move laterally across the deployment. | ASSET-C-37 | O-CU Tenant |
| T-SharedORU-11 | O-DU Tenant accesses O-CU Host | All | Weak authentication can be exploited by a tenant to move laterally across the deployment. | ASSET-C-36 | O-CU Host |
| T-SharedORU-12 | O-DU Tenant accesses O-CU Tenant | All | Weak authentication can be exploited by a tenant to move laterally across the deployment. | ASSET-C-37 | O-CU Tenant |
| T-SharedORU-13 | SMO Host accesses O-CU Tenant | All | Weak authentication can be exploited by a tenant to move laterally across the deployment. | ASSET-C-37 | O-CU Tenant |
| T-SharedORU-14 | SMO Tenant accesses O-CU Host | All | Weak authentication can be exploited by a tenant to move laterally across the deployment. | ASSET-C-36 | O-CU Host |
| T-SharedORU-15 | Physical port access to Shared O-RU Host/Tenant | All | Weak physical layer authentication can be exploited to gain access. | ASSET-C-31 | Shared O-RU |
| T-SharedORU-16 | Physical port access to O-DU Host/Tenant | All | Weak physical layer authentication can be exploited to gain access. | ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-35 | O-DU Host, O-DU Tenant |
| T-SharedORU-17 | Physical port access to O-CU Host/Tenant | All | Weak physical layer authentication can be exploited to gain access. | ASSET-C-36, ASSET-C-37 | O-CU Host, O-CU Tenant |
| T-SharedORU-18 | Malicious User Login Attempt to SMO Host/Tenant | All | Weak account management and/or authentication can be exploited to gain access. | ASSET-C-38, ASSET-C-39 | SMO Host, SMO Tenant |
| T-SharedORU-19 | Malicious User Login Attempt to O-CU Host/Tenant | All | Weak account management and/or authentication can be exploited to gain access | ASSET-C-36, ASSET-C-37 | O-CU Host, O-CU Tenant |
| T-SharedORU-20 | Malicious User Login Attempt to O-DU Host/Tenant | All | Weak account management and/or authentication can be exploited to gain access | ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-33 | O-DU Host, O-DU Tenant |
| T-SharedORU-21 | Malicious User Login Attempt to Shared O-RU Host/Tenant | All | Weak account management and/or authentication can be exploited to gain access | ASSET-C-31 | Shared O-RU |
| T-SharedORU-22 | Unauthorized internal threat actor gains access to data in Shared O-RU | All | Compromised credentials or weak or misconfigured authorization to gain access to view or modify sensitive data | ASSET-C-31 | Shared O-RU |
| T-SharedORU-23 | Unauthorized external threat actor gains access to data in Shared O-RU | All | Compromised credentials or weak or misconfigured authorization to gain access to view or modify sensitive data | ASSET-C-31 | Shared O-RU |
| T-SharedORU-24 | Data exposure at Shared O-RU | All | Weak confidentiality protection exploited to view sensitive data | ASSET-C-31 | Shared O-RU |
| T-SharedORU-25 | Shared O-RU data exposure at SMO | All | Weak confidentiality protection exploited to view sensitive data | ASSET-C-31 | Shared O-RU |
| T-SharedORU-26 | Shared O-RU data exposure at O-DU | All | Weak confidentiality protection exploited to view sensitive data | ASSET-C-31 | Shared O-RU |
| T-SharedORU-27 | Exposed data in transit between Shared O-RU and O-DU Host/Tenant | All | Weak confidentiality protection exploited to view sensitive data | ASSET-C-31, ASSET-C-24, ASSET-C-25 | Shared O-RU, M-Plane, CUS-Plane |
| T-SharedORU-28 | Exposed data in transit between Shared O-RU and SMO Host/Tenant | All | Weak confidentiality protection exploited to view sensitive data | ASSET-C-31, ASSET-C-22 | Shared O-RU, O1 |
| T-SharedORU-29 | Modify/Delete OFH C-Plane messages | All | Weak integrity protection exploited to modify or delete control messages | ASSET-C-31, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-35, ASSET-C-25 | Shared O-RU, O-DU Host, O-DU Tenant, CUS-Plane |
| T-SharedORU-30 | Clock hijacking on OFH S-Plane | All | Weak authorization exploit can also result in spoofing of the Grand Master clock for an availability attack | ASSET-C-31, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-35, ASSET-C-25 | Shared O-RU, O-DU Host, O-DU Tenant, CUS-Plane |
| T-SharedORU-31 | Parameter conflicts at Shared O-RU | All | Conflicting parameter settings degrade performance or cause an outage. | ASSET-C-31 | Shared O-RU |
| T-SharedORU-32 | Volumetric DDoS attack from O-DU targeting Shared O-RU | All | High-rate of malformed, mis-sequenced, invalid, or valid packets to cause a Denial of Service | ASSET-C-31, ASSET-C-24, ASSET-C-25 | Shared O-RU, M-Plane, CUS-Plane |
| T-SharedORU-33 | Volumetric DDoS attack from SMO targeting Shared O-RU | All | High-rate of malformed, mis-sequenced, invalid, or valid packets to cause a Denial of Service | ASSET-C-31, ASSET-C-22 | Shared O-RU, O1 |
| T-SharedORU-34 | Volumetric DDoS attack targeting O-DU | All | High-rate of malformed, mis-sequenced, invalid, or valid packets to cause a Denial of Service | ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-35, ASSET-C-24, ASSET-C-25 | O-DU Host, O-DU Tenant, M-Plane, CUS-Plane |
| T-SharedORU-35 | Shared O-RU initialization hijacking by DHCP compromise | All | Compromise DHCP server and use it to prevent Shared O-RU from reaching carrier-active state causing a Denial of Service | ASSET-C-31 | Shared O-RU |
| T-SharedORU-36 | Shared O-RU M-plane hijacking by DNS compromise | All | The name resolution of FQDN can be manipulated by an attacker using a compromised DNS server and prevent Shared O-RU from reaching carrier-active state causing a Denial of Service | ASSET-C-31 | Shared O-RU |
| T-SharedORU-37 | Misconfiguration of MNO Host Role | All | A threat actor could exploit an incorrectly assigned role of Host to control function of the Shared O-RU | ASSET-C-31 | Shared O-RU |
| T-SharedORU-38 | Incorrect Assignment of Spectrum Resources | All | Tenant access to the wrong resources, due to malicious intent or could be exploited to gain access to information. | ASSET-C-31 | Shared O-RU |
| T-SharedORU-39 | Chain of Trust in a Multi-Tenant Environment | All | Untrustworthy certificates can be exploited to gain access to the Shared O-RU | ASSET-C-31, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-35, ASSET-C-36, ASSET-C-37, ASSET-C-38, ASSET-C-39 | Shared O-RU, O-DU Host, O-DU Tenant, O-CU Host, O-CU Tenant, SMO Host, SMO Tenant |
| T-SharedORU-40 | Hijack of MNO Host Role | All | Elevation of privilege enables the tenant, acting as host, to have authorized access to sensitive data, credentials, and system privileges | ASSET-C-31 | Shared O-RU |
| T-SharedORU-41 | Not Released Host Role (Host Role resume) | All | Elevation of privilege enables the tenant, acting as host, to have authorized access to sensitive data, credentials, and system privileges | ASSET-C-31 | Shared O-RU |
| T-SharedORU-42 | Misuse of “sudo” privileges | All | Elevation of privilege enables the tenant, acting as host, to have authorized access to sensitive data, credentials, and system privileges | ASSET-C-31 | Shared O-RU |
| T-SharedORU-43 | Eavesdropping of unprotected CUSM-plane data within shared O-RU | All | Eavesdrop sensitive data between neighbor tenants and the host | ASSET-C-31 | Shared O-RU |
| T-SharedORU-44 through T-SharedORU-51 are Void |  |  |  |  |  |
| T-SharedORU-52 | Thrashing O-DU Failovers | All | Threat actor spoofs SMO to cause O-DU-1 and O-DU-2 to thrash between Active state and Standby state | ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-22 | O-DU, O1 |
| T-SharedORU-53 | Dual (Dueling) Active O-DUs | All | Threat actor spoofs SMO to cause O-DU-1 and O-DU-2 to both be in Active state. | ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-22 | O-DU, O1 |
| T-SharedORU-54 | Modify/Inject O1 messages at the SMO | All | Threat actor spoofs O-DU to modify, inject, flood O1 messages to the SMO to prevent SMO detection of O-DU failure. | ASSET-C-38, ASSET-C-22 | SMO, O1 |
| T-SharedORU-55 | Set Incorrect Array-Carrier configuration on O-DU (Standby) | All | Threat actor spoofs SMO to set or modify the pre-configured array-carrier configuration on the O-DU in Standby state. | ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-22 | O-DU, O1 |
| T-SharedORU-56 | Modify Array-Carrier pre-configuration on Shared O-RU | All | Threat actor can gain access to Shared O-RU to modify its pre-configured array-carrier | ASSET-C-31 | Shared O-RU |
| T-SharedORU-57 | Modify/Inject M-Plane messages with Array-Carrier configuration | All | Threat actor Modifies/Injects M-Plane messages with Array-Carrier configuration sent to the Shared O-RU. | ASSET-C-31, ASSET-C-24 | Shared O-RU, M-Plane |
| T-OAuth-G-01 | Obtaining client secrets | All | Unsecured tokens and secrets | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 | SMO Framework, Near-RT RIC, O-Cloud, O-CU, O-RU, O-DU |
| T-OAuth-G-02 | Obtaining refresh tokens | All | A new refresh token was not issued | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 | SMO Framework, Near-RT RIC, O-Cloud, O-CU, O-RU, O-DU |
| T-OAuth-G-03 | Obtaining access tokens | All | Insufficient protection for credentials | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 | SMO Framework, Near-RT RIC, O-Cloud, O-CU, O-RU, O-DU |
| T-OAuth-G-04 | Eavesdropping access tokens | All | Non authenticated, weakly or incorrectly authenticated communication channels | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 | SMO Framework, Near-RT RIC, O-Cloud, O-CU, O-RU, O-DU |
| T-OAuth-G-05 | Disclosure of client credentials during transmission | All | Non authenticated, weakly or incorrectly authenticated communication channels | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 | SMO Framework, Near-RT RIC, O-Cloud, O-CU, O-RU, O-DU |
| T-OAuth-G-06 | Open redirectors on client | All | Non authenticated, weakly or incorrectly authenticated communication channels | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 | SMO Framework, Near-RT RIC, O-Cloud, O-CU, O-RU, O-DU |
| T-OAuth-G-07 | Obtain a deployment-specific secret, | All | Malicious applications, insufficient access control | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 | SMO Framework, Near-RT RIC, O-Cloud, O-CU, O-RU, O-DU |
| T-OAuth-G-08 | Obtaining authorization by code substitution (OAuth Login) | All | Insufficient protection for credentials | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 | SMO Framework, Near-RT RIC, O-Cloud, O-CU, O-RU, O-DU |
| T-OAuth-G-09 | Access token leak in transport/endpoints | All | Non authenticated, weakly or incorrectly authenticated URI | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 | SMO Framework, Near-RT RIC, O-Cloud, O-CU, O-RU, O-DU |
| T-OAuth-G-10 | Malicious client obtains existing authorization by fraud | All | Improper authorization process and lack of re-validating the authorization requests | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 | SMO Framework, Near-RT RIC, O-Cloud, O-CU, O-RU, O-DU |
| T-OAuth-G-11 | Malicious client obtains authorization | All | Insufficient protection for credentials | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 | SMO Framework, Near-RT RIC, O-Cloud, O-CU, O-RU, O-DU |
| T-OAuth-G-12 | Accidental exposure of passwords at client site | All | Insufficient protection for credentials | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 | SMO Framework, Near-RT RIC, O-Cloud, O-CU, O-RU, O-DU |
| T-OAuth-G-13 | Client obtains scopes without end-user authorization and possible misconfigurations | All | Misconfiguration | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 | SMO Framework, Near-RT RIC, O-Cloud, O-CU, O-RU, O-DU |
| T-OAuth-G-14 | Client obtains refresh token through automatic authorization | All | Improper authorization process and lack of re-validating the authorization requests | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 | SMO Framework, Near-RT RIC, O-Cloud, O-CU, O-RU, O-DU |
| T-OAuth-G-15 | Eavesdropping refresh tokens from authorization server | All | Non authenticated, weakly or incorrectly authenticated communication channels | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 | SMO Framework, Near-RT RIC, O-Cloud, O-CU, O-RU, O-DU |
| T-OAuth-G-16 | Obtaining refresh token by online guessing | All | Improper authorization process and lack of re-validating the authorization requests | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 | SMO Framework, Near-RT RIC, O-Cloud, O-CU, O-RU, O-DU |
| T-OAuth-G-17 | Refresh token phishing by counterfeit authorization server | All | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 | SMO Framework, Near-RT RIC, O-Cloud, O-CU, O-RU, O-DU |  |
| T-OAuth-G-18 | Guessing access tokens | All | Insecure generation of access token | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 | SMO Framework, Near-RT RIC, O-Cloud, O-CU, O-RU, O-DU |
| T-OAuth-G-19 | Access token phishing by counterfeit resource server | All | Insufficient protection for credentials | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 | SMO Framework, Near-RT RIC, O-Cloud, O-CU, O-RU, O-DU |
| T-OAuth-G-20 | Abuse of token by legitimate resource server or client | All | Insufficient protection for access control on resource server | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 | SMO Framework, Near-RT RIC, O-Cloud, O-CU, O-RU, O-DU |
| T-OAuth-G-21 | Token leakage via log files and HTTP referrers | All | Improper implementation of API request | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 | SMO Framework, Near-RT RIC, O-Cloud, O-CU, O-RU, O-DU |
| T-OAuth-G-22 | User unintentionally grants too much access scope | All | Misconfiguration, insufficient authorization access | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 | SMO Framework, Near-RT RIC, O-Cloud, O-CU, O-RU, O-DU |
| T-OAuth-G-23 | Leak of confidential data in HTTP proxies | All | Non authenticated, weakly or incorrectly authenticated communication channels | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 | SMO Framework, Near-RT RIC, O-Cloud, O-CU, O-RU, O-DU |
| T-OAuth-G-24 | Replay of authorized resource server requests | All | Inadequacy of request validation of Resource server | ASSET-C-01, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-07, ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-09, ASSET-C-10, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-36 | SMO Framework, Near-RT RIC, O-Cloud, O-CU, O-RU, O-DU |
| General threats |  |  |  |  |  |
| T-GEN-01 | Software flaw attack | All | Vulnerable code exploits, Design Weakness | ASSET-D-12, ASSET-D-13, ASSET-D-14, ASSET-D-15, ASSET-D-16, ASSET-D-17, ASSET-D-18, ASSET-D-19, ASSET-D-20, ASSET-D-29, ASSET-D-31, ASSET-D-32 | O-Cloud, Apps/VNFs/CNFs |
| T-GEN-02 | Malicious access to exposed services using valid accounts | All | Lack of authentication | ASSET-D-12, ASSET-D-13, ASSET-D-14, ASSET-D-15, ASSET-D-16, ASSET-D-17, ASSET-D-18, ASSET-D-19, ASSET-D-20, ASSET-D-29, ASSET-D-31, ASSET-D-32 | O-Cloud, Apps/VNFs/CNFs |
| T-GEN-03 | Untrust binding between the different O-Cloud layers | All | Lack of integrity verification during boot or runtime | ASSET-D-12, ASSET-D-13, ASSET-D-14, ASSET-D-15, ASSET-D-16, ASSET-D-17, ASSET-D-18, ASSET-D-19, ASSET-D-20, ASSET-D-29, ASSET-D-31, ASSET-D-32 | O-Cloud, Apps/VNFs/CNFs |
| T-GEN-04 | Lack of Authentication & Authorization in interfaces between O-Cloud components | All | Lack of authentication, Insecure interfaces | ASSET-D-12, ASSET-D-13, ASSET-D-14, ASSET-D-15, ASSET-D-16, ASSET-D-17, ASSET-D-18, ASSET-D-19, ASSET-D-20, ASSET-D-29, ASSET-D-31, ASSET-D-32 | O-Cloud, Apps/VNFs/CNFs, O2 |
| T-GEN-05 | Unsecured credentials and keys | All | Insecure O-Cloud APIs, Lack of integrity verification during boot or runtime | ASSET-D-12, ASSET-D-13, ASSET-D-14, ASSET-D-15, ASSET-D-16, ASSET-D-17, ASSET-D-18, ASSET-D-19, ASSET-D-20, ASSET-D-29, ASSET-D-31, ASSET-D-32 | O-Cloud |
| T-GEN-06 | Sensitive application data cache exploitation | All | Sensitive information disclosure, Privilege escalation in Applications | ASSET-D-12, ASSET-D-13, ASSET-D-14, ASSET-D-15, ASSET-D-16, ASSET-D-17, ASSET-D-18, ASSET-D-19, ASSET-D-20, ASSET-D-29, ASSET-D-31, ASSET-D-32 | O-Cloud, Apps/VNFs/CNFs |
| T-VM-C-01 | Abuse of a privileged VM/Container | All | Misconfiguration or Insecure VM/Container configurations | ASSET-D-12, ASSET-D-13, ASSET-D-14, ASSET-D-15, ASSET-D-16, ASSET-D-17, ASSET-D-18, ASSET-D-19, ASSET-D-20, ASSET-D-29, ASSET-D-31, ASSET-D-32 | O-Cloud, Apps/VNFs/CNFs |
| T-VM-C-02 | VM/Container escape attack | All | Shared tenancy vulnerabilities (multitenant environment), Lack of strong VM/Container isolation, lack of authentication, Insecure networking, Unrestricted communication between VMs/Containers | ASSET-D-12, ASSET-D-13, ASSET-D-14, ASSET-D-15, ASSET-D-16, ASSET-D-17, ASSET-D-18, ASSET-D-19, ASSET-D-20, ASSET-D-29, ASSET-D-31, ASSET-D-32 | O-Cloud, Apps/VNFs/CNFs |
| T-VM-C-03 | VM/Container data theft | All | Lack of authentication, insecure data storage | ASSET-D-12, ASSET-D-13, ASSET-D-14, ASSET-D-15, ASSET-D-16, ASSET-D-17, ASSET-D-18, ASSET-D-19, ASSET-D-20, ASSET-D-29, ASSET-D-31, ASSET-D-32 | O-Cloud, Apps/VNFs/CNFs |
| T-VM-C-04 | VM/Container migration attacks | All | Host misconfiguration, lack of authentication, memory pages copied in clear, vulnerable code exploits | ASSET-D-12, ASSET-D-13, ASSET-D-14, ASSET-D-15, ASSET-D-16, ASSET-D-17, ASSET-D-18, ASSET-D-19, ASSET-D-20, ASSET-D-29, ASSET-D-31, ASSET-D-32 | O-Cloud, Apps/VNFs/CNFs |
| T-VM-C-05 | Changing virtualization resource without authorization | All | Insecure O1/O2 interfaces, Lack of authentication/access control on IMS/DMS | ASSET-D-12, ASSET-D-13, ASSET-D-14, ASSET-D-15, ASSET-D-16, ASSET-D-17, ASSET-D-18, ASSET-D-19, ASSET-D-20, ASSET-D-29, ASSET-D-31, ASSET-D-32 | O-Cloud, Apps/VNFs/CNFs |
| T-VM-C-06 | Failed or incomplete VNF/CNF termination or releasing of resources | All | Lack of authentication, misconfigurations (VNF/CNF, Host OS, Hypervisor/Container Engine) | ASSET-D-12, ASSET-D-13, ASSET-D-14, ASSET-D-15, ASSET-D-16, ASSET-D-17, ASSET-D-18, ASSET-D-19, ASSET-D-20, ASSET-D-29, ASSET-D-31, ASSET-D-32 | O-Cloud, Apps/VNFs/CNFs |
| T-IMG-01 | VM/Container images tampering | All | Compromised VM/Container images (Build machine attacks, Supply chain attacks) at rest, lack of authentication, misconfiguration or Insecure VM/Container images configurations | ASSET-D-12, ASSET-D-13, ASSET-D-14, ASSET-D-15, ASSET-D-16, ASSET-D-17, ASSET-D-18, ASSET-D-19, ASSET-D-20, ASSET-D-29, ASSET-D-31, ASSET-D-32 | O-Cloud, Apps/VNFs/CNFs images |
| T-IMG-02 | Insecure channels with images repository | All | Compromised VM/Container images in transit | ASSET-D-12, ASSET-D-13, ASSET-D-14, ASSET-D-15, ASSET-D-16, ASSET-D-17, ASSET-D-18, ASSET-D-19, ASSET-D-20, ASSET-D-29, ASSET-D-31, ASSET-D-32 | O-Cloud, Apps/VNFs/CNFs images |
| T-IMG-03 | Secrets disclosure in VM/Container images | All | Secret exposure in VNF/CNF images | ASSET-D-12, ASSET-D-13, ASSET-D-14, ASSET-D-15, ASSET-D-16, ASSET-D-17, ASSET-D-18, ASSET-D-19, ASSET-D-20, ASSET-D-29, ASSET-D-31, ASSET-D-32 | O-Cloud, Apps/VNFs/CNFs images |
| T-IMG-04 | Build image on VL | All | Host misconfiguration, lack of authentication | ASSET-D-12, ASSET-D-13, ASSET-D-14, ASSET-D-15, ASSET-D-16, ASSET-D-17, ASSET-D-18, ASSET-D-19, ASSET-D-20, ASSET-D-29, ASSET-D-31, ASSET-D-32 | O-Cloud, Apps/VNFs/CNFs images |
| T-VL-01 | VM/Container hyperjacking attack | All | Host misconfiguration, lack of authentication | ASSET-D-12, ASSET-D-13, ASSET-D-14, ASSET-D-15, ASSET-D-16, ASSET-D-17, ASSET-D-18, ASSET-D-19, ASSET-D-20, ASSET-D-29, ASSET-D-31, ASSET-D-32 | O-Cloud, Apps/VNFs/CNFs |
| T-VL-02 | Boot tampering | All | Host misconfigurations, lack of authentication | ASSET-D-12, ASSET-D-13, ASSET-D-14, ASSET-D-15, ASSET-D-16, ASSET-D-17, ASSET-D-18, ASSET-D-19, ASSET-D-20, ASSET-D-29, ASSET-D-31, ASSET-D-32 | O-Cloud, Apps/VNFs/CNFs |
| T-VL-03 | Attack internal network services | All | Insecure O-Cloud APIs, Lack of authentication | ASSET-D-12, ASSET-D-13, ASSET-D-14, ASSET-D-15, ASSET-D-16, ASSET-D-17, ASSET-D-18, ASSET-D-19, ASSET-D-20, ASSET-D-29, ASSET-D-31, ASSET-D-32 | O-Cloud |
| T-O2-01 | MitM attacks on O2 interface between O-Cloud and SMO | All | Insecure O2 interface, lack authentication | ASSET-D-12, ASSET-D-13, ASSET-D-14, ASSET-D-15, ASSET-D-16, ASSET-D-17, ASSET-D-18, ASSET-D-19, ASSET-D-20, ASSET-D-29, ASSET-D-31, ASSET-D-32 | O2 |
| T-OCAPI-01 | MitM attacks on O-Cloud interface between VNFs/CNFs and the virtualization layer | All | Insecure O-Cloud APIs, lack of authentication | ASSET-D-12, ASSET-D-13, ASSET-D-14, ASSET-D-15, ASSET-D-16, ASSET-D-17, ASSET-D-18, ASSET-D-19, ASSET-D-20, ASSET-D-29, ASSET-D-31, ASSET-D-32 | O-Cloud, Apps/VNFs/CNFs |
| T-HW-01 | Cross VM/Container side channel attacks | All | Flaws in chip design, use of shared hardware, Lack of isolation, lack of authentication | ASSET-D-12, ASSET-D-13, ASSET-D-14, ASSET-D-15, ASSET-D-16, ASSET-D-17, ASSET-D-18, ASSET-D-19, ASSET-D-20, ASSET-D-29, ASSET-D-31, ASSET-D-32 | O-Cloud, Apps/VNFs/CNFs |
| T-HW-02 | MitM attacks on the interface between virtualization layer and hardware | All | Insecure interfaces between HW and VL layers, lack of authentication, misconfiguration | ASSET-D-12, ASSET-D-13, ASSET-D-14, ASSET-D-15, ASSET-D-16, ASSET-D-17, ASSET-D-18, ASSET-D-19, ASSET-D-20, ASSET-D-29, ASSET-D-31, ASSET-D-32 | O-Cloud |
| T-ADMIN-01 | Denial of service against NFO/FOCOM | All | Lack of authentication, vulnerable code exploits, design weakness, insecure O2 interface | ASSET-D-12, ASSET-D-13, ASSET-D-14, ASSET-D-15, ASSET-D-16, ASSET-D-17, ASSET-D-18, ASSET-D-19, ASSET-D-20, ASSET-D-29, ASSET-D-31, ASSET-D-32 | NFO/FOCOM, O-Cloud, Apps/VNFs/CNFs |
| T-ADMIN-02 | Abuse a O-Cloud administration service | All | Lack of authentication, secret exposure (insufficient safeguarding of credentials), vulnerable code exploits, design weakness | ASSET-D-12, ASSET-D-13, ASSET-D-14, ASSET-D-15, ASSET-D-16, ASSET-D-17, ASSET-D-18, ASSET-D-19, ASSET-D-20, ASSET-D-29, ASSET-D-31, ASSET-D-32 | NFO/FOCOM, O-Cloud, Apps/VNFs/CNFs |
| T-AAL-01 | Attacker exploits insecure API to gain access to hardware accelerator resources | All | Insecure AAL APIs and interfaces Lack authentication and authorization | ASSET-D-33 to ASSET-D-38 | ASSET-C-29, ASSET-C-30 |
| T-AAL-02 | Internal Overload DoS attack targeting AAL services | All | Insecure AAL APIs and interfaces  Lack authentication and authorization | ASSET-D-33 to ASSET-D-38 | ASSET-C-29, ASSET-C-30 |
| T-AAL-03 | Fail to clear resources | All | Insecure AAL APIs Flaws in AAL design Lack of secure deletion of data after process termination | ASSET-D-33 to ASSET-D-38 | ASSET-C-29, ASSET-C-30 |
| T-AAL-04 | HAM compromise | All | Insecure HAM APIs Flaws in HAM design Lack of access control | ASSET-D-33 to ASSET-D-38 | ASSET-C-29, ASSET-C-30 |
| T-AAL-05 | Malicious memory accesses | All | Insecure AAL APIs Flaws in AAL design Unrestricted memory access Lack of access control | ASSET-D-33 to ASSET-D-38 | ASSET-C-29, ASSET-C-30 |
| T-AAL-06 | Firmware attacks | All | Weak accelerator design Misconfiguration Insecure AAL/HAM APIs | ASSET-D-33 to ASSET-D-38 | ASSET-C-29, ASSET-C-30 |
| T-O-CLOUD-ID-01 | ID reuse in O-Cloud's object lifecycle | All | Insufficient data cleanup Weak isolation mechanisms Inadequate monitoring and Logging Lack of ID randomization Inefficient access controls No Timestamping or Versioning Lack of notification mechanisms | ASSET-D-14, ASSET-D-15, ASSET-D-18, ASSET-D-29 | ASSET-C-08 |
| T-O-CLOUD-ID-02 | Node redundancy in O-Cloud deployments | All | Inadequate decommissioning procedures Weak identity management Insufficient data cleanup No state verification Lack of Resource Auditing Lack of notification mechanisms Inadequate monitoring and Logging | ASSET-D-14, ASSET-D-15, ASSET-D-18, ASSET-D-29 | ASSET-C-08 |
| T-O-CLOUD-ID-03 | O-Cloud ID mismanagement | All | Predictable ID Generation Lack of ID validation Inefficient synchronization No ID revocation mechanism Inadequate access controls Lack of Namespace Segregation | ASSET-D-14, ASSET-D-15, ASSET-D-18, ASSET-D-29 | ASSET-C-08 |
| T-OPENSRC-01 | Developers use SW components with known vulnerabilities and untrusted libraries that can be exploited by an attacker through a backdoor attack | All | Inaccurate inventories of open-source software Lack of consistent Supply Chain traceability and security Lack of coding best practices Modules with known vulnerabilities and untrusted libraries |  |  |
| T-OPENSRC-02 | A trusted developer intentionally inserts a backdoor into an open-source code O-RAN component | All | Bugs in open-source software caused by mistakes and human error |  |  |
| T-PHYS-01 | An intruder gains physical access to O-RAN components to cause damage by manipulation / modification to software / software configuration /management. | All except Script kiddies | Improper physical security protection, hardware backdoor | All |  |
| T-PHYS-01A | An intruder gains physical access to O-RAN components to access sensitive data | All except Script kiddies | Improper physical security protection, hardware backdoor | All |  |
| T-PHYS-01B | An intruder gains physical access to O-RAN components to cause performance degradations, denial of service. | All except Script kiddies | Improper physical security protection, Improper maintenance and monitoring of hardware parameters, hardware backdoor | All |  |
| T-PHYS-02 | An intruder into the Fronthaul cable network attempts to gain electronic access to cause damage or access sensitive data | All except Script kiddies | Physical access to the open Fronthaul cable network | ASSET-D-01, ASSET-D-02, ASSET-D-04, ASSET-D-05, ASSET-C-05, ASSET-C-06, ASSET-C-31, ASSET-C-32, ASSET-C-33, ASSET-C-34, ASSET-C-35, ASSET-C-12 | All |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |
| T-RADIO-01 | Disruption through radio jamming | All except Script kiddies | Weakness of wireless cellular communications | ASSET-D-06 ASSET-C-05 ASSET-C-06 | O-RU, O-DU |
| T-RADIO-01A | Disruption through radio sniffing and spoofing | All except Script kiddies | Weakness of wireless cellular communications | ASSET-D-06 ASSET-C-05 ASSET-C-06 | O-RU, O-DU |
| T-RADIO-02 | DoS attacks on cognitive radio networks | All except Script kiddies | Weakness of wireless cellular communications | ASSET-D-06 ASSET-C-05 ASSET-C-06 | O-RU, O-DU |
| T-AIML-IM-1 | Training Data Control | All | Vulnerabilities in data sources, vulnerabilities in training database | ASSET-D-25, ASSET-D-26, ASSET-D-27, ASSET-D-28 | Near-RT RIC, Non-RT RIC, xAPPs, rApps |
| T-AIML-IM-2 | Testing Data Control | All | Vulnerabilities in data sources, vulnerabilities in training database | ASSET-D-25, ASSET-D-26, ASSET-D-27, ASSET-D-28 | Near-RT RIC, Non-RT RIC, xAPPs, rApps |
| T-AIML-IM-3 | Label Manipulation | All | Vulnerabilities in data sources, vulnerabilities in training database | ASSET-D-25, ASSET-D-26, ASSET-D-27, ASSET-D-28 | Near-RT RIC, Non-RT RIC, xAPPs, rApps |
| T-AIML-IM-4 | AI/ML Query Exploitation | All | Vulnerabilities in data sources, vulnerabilities in training database, vulnerabilities in AI/ML APIs | ASSET-D-26, ASSET-D-27, ASSET-D-28 | Near-RT RIC, Non-RT RIC, xAPPs, rApps |
| T-AIML-DP-01 | Black-box Data Poisoning | All | Vulnerabilities in data sources, vulnerabilities in training database | ASSET-D-10, ASSET-D-25,  ASSET-D-26, ASSET-C-12, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-11 | Database holding data from xApp applications and E2 Node, Training or test data sets collected externally or internally, Trained ML model, xApps, rApps, Near-RT-RIC SW, Non-RT-RIC SW |
| T-AIML-DP-02 | Grey-box Data Poisoning | All | Vulnerabilities in data sources, vulnerabilities in data transport, vulnerabilities in training database | ASSET-D-10, ASSET-D-25,  ASSET-D-26, ASSET-C-12, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-22, ASSET-C-14, ASSET-C-40 | Database holding data from xApp applications and E2 Node, Training or test data sets collected externally or internally, Trained ML model, xApps, rApps, Near-RT-RIC SW, Non-RT-RIC SW, O1 interface for streaming data, A1 interface, E2 interface for streaming data |
| T-AIML-DP-03 | White-box Data Poisoning | All | Vulnerabilities in data sources, vulnerabilities in training database | ASSET-D-10, ASSET-D-25,  ASSET-D-26, ASSET-C-12, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-22, ASSET-C-14, ASSET-C-40 | Database holding data from xApp applications and E2 Node, Training or test data sets collected externally or internally, Trained ML model, xApps, rApps, Near-RT-RIC SW, Non-RT-RIC SW, O1 interface for streaming data, A1 interface, E2 interface for streaming data |
| T-AIML-MEI-01 | Information Access - Membership Inference | All | Vulnerabilities in data sources, vulnerabilities in training database | ASSET-D-26,  ASSET-C-02,  ASSET-C-11 | Trained ML model, xApps, rApps, Near-RT-RIC SW, Non-RT-RIC SW |
| T-AIML-MEI-02 | Inference Technique - Membership Inference | All | Vulnerabilities in data sources, vulnerabilities in training database | ASSET-D-26,  ASSET-C-02,  ASSET-C-11 | Trained ML model, xApps, rApps, Near-RT-RIC SW, Non-RT-RIC SW |
| T-AIML-MEI-03 | Target based - Membership Inference | All | Vulnerabilities in data sources, vulnerabilities in training database | ASSET-D-26,  ASSET-C-02,  ASSET-C-11 | Trained ML model,  xApps, rApps, Near-RT-RIC SW, Non-RT-RIC SW |
| T-AIML-ME-01 | Intellectual Property Theft | All | Vulnerabilities in data sources, vulnerabilities in training database, vulnerabilities in ML model storage, vulnerabilities in ML model transfer | ASSET-D-10, ASSET-D-25, ASSET-D-26, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-11 | Database holding data from xApp applications and E2, Training or test data sets collected externally or internally, Trained ML model, Near-RT-RIC SW, Non-RT-RIC SW |
| T-AIML-ME-02 | Data Privacy Violations | All | Vulnerabilities in data sources, vulnerabilities in training database, vulnerabilities in ML model storage, vulnerabilities in ML model transfer | ASSET-D-10, ASSET-D-25, ASSET-D-26, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-11 | Database holding data from xApp applications and E2, Training or test data sets collected externally or internally, Trained ML model, Near-RT-RIC SW, Non-RT-RIC SW |
| T-AIML-ME-03 | Adversarial Attacks with Stolen Models | All | Vulnerabilities in data sources, vulnerabilities in training database, vulnerabilities in ML model storage, vulnerabilities in ML model transfer | ASSET-D-10, ASSET-D-25, ASSET-D-26, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-11 | Database holding data from xApp applications and E2, Training or test data sets collected externally or internally, Trained ML model, Near-RT-RIC SW, Non-RT-RIC SW |
| T-AIML-MOI-01 | Black-box Model Inversion | All | Model is overfitted, model may have memorized specific training examples, model API not properly protected | ASSET-D-10, ASSET-D-25, ASSET-D-26, ASSET-D-27 | Near-RT RIC, Non-RT RIC, xAPPs, rApps |
| T-AIML-MOI-02 | White-box Model Inversion | All | Model is not protected, training data is not protected, model is overfitted, model may have memorized specific training examples, model API not protected | ASSET-D-10, ASSET-D-25, ASSET-D-26, ASSET-D-27, ASSET-D-28 | Near-RT RIC, Non-RT RIC, xAPPs, rApps |
| T-AIML-SC-01 | Data Poisoning via Supply Chain | All | Vulnerabilities in data sources, vulnerabilities in training database, vulnerabilities in ML model transfer | ASSET-D-10, ASSET-D-25, ASSET-D-26, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-12 | Database holding data from xApp applications and E2 Node, Training or test data sets collected externally or internally, Trained ML model, ML components deploying machine learning (xApps, rApps),Near-RT-RIC SW, Non-RT-RIC SW |
| T-AIML-SC-02 | Model Tampering | All | Vulnerabilities in ML model transfer | ASSET-D-10, ASSET-D-25, ASSET-D-26, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-12 | Database holding data from xApp applications and E2 Node, Training or test data sets collected externally or internally, Trained ML model, ML components deploying machine learning (xApps, rApps),Near-RT-RIC SW, Non-RT-RIC SW |
| T-AIML-SC-03 | Backdoor via Supply Chain | All | Vulnerabilities in ML model transfer | ASSET-D-10, ASSET-D-25, ASSET-D-26, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-12 | Database holding data from xApp applications and E2 Node, Training or test data sets collected externally or internally, Trained ML model, ML components deploying machine learning (xApps, rApps),Near-RT-RIC SW, Non-RT-RIC SW |
| T-AIML-SC-04 | Hardware Tampering | All | Vulnerabilities in the AI processing HW | ASSET-D-10, ASSET-D-26, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-12 | Database holding data from xApp applications and E2 Node, Trained ML model, ML components deploying machine learning (xApps, rApps),Near-RT-RIC SW, Non-RT-RIC SW |
| T-AIML-SC-05 | Insecure Maintenance APIs | All | Vulnerabilities in the ML maintenance APIs | ASSET-D-10, ASSET-D-25, ASSET-D-26, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-12 | Database holding data from xApp applications and E2 Node, Training or test data sets collected externally or internally, Trained ML model, ML components deploying machine learning (xApps, rApps),Near-RT-RIC SW, Non-RT-RIC SW |
| T-AIML-SC-06 | Third-party Libraries and Dependencies | All | Vulnerabilities in the ML- related SW | ASSET-D-10, ASSET-D-25, ASSET-D-26, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-12 | Database holding data from xApp applications and E2 Node, Training or test data sets collected externally or internally, Trained ML model, ML components deploying machine learning (xApps, rApps),Near-RT-RIC SW, Non-RT-RIC SW |
| T-AIML-OI-01 | Denial of Service Impacting Output Integrity | All | Vulnerabilities in data sources, vulnerabilities in training database, vulnerabilities in ML model storage, vulnerabilities in ML model transfer | ASSET-D-25,ASSET-D-26, ASSET-D-27, ASSET-D-07,ASSET-C-12, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-11 | Training or test data sets collected externally or internally, Trained ML model, ML prediction results,A1 policies,E2 node data, Near-RT-RIC SW, Non-RT-RIC SW |
| T-AIML-OI-02 | Subscriber QoE Change | All | Vulnerabilities in data sources, vulnerabilities in training database, vulnerabilities in ML model storage, vulnerabilities in ML model transfer. | ASSET-D-25,  ASSET-D-26, ASSET-D-27, ASSET-D-07, ASSET-D-11,ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-11 | Training or test data sets collected externally or internally, Trained ML model , ML prediction results ,Data transported over the O1 interface,A1 policies, E2 node data, Near-RT-RIC SW, Non-RT-RIC SW . |
| T-AIML-MP-01 | Model Parameter Poisoning | All | •	Insufficient access controls to the model’s parameters [i.33] •	Inadequate monitoring and logging of model’s activity [i.32] •	Lack of control for poisoning in model [i.32] •	Weak access protection mechanisms for ML model components [i.32] | [ASSET-D-26], [ASSET-C-12], [ASSET-D-27] | Near-RT RIC, Non-RT RIC, O-CU, O-DU, xApps, rApps |
| T-AIML-MP-02 | Inference Algorithm Poisoning | All | •	Insufficient access controls to the model’s code [i.33] •	Inadequate monitoring and logging of model’s activity [i.32] •	Lack of code integrity checking •	Weak access protection mechanisms for ML model components [i.32] | [ASSET-D-26], [ASSET-D-27] | Near-RT RIC, Non-RT RIC, O-CU, O-DU, xApps, rApps |
| T-AIML-MP-03 | Learning Algorithm Poisoning | All | •	Insufficient access controls to the model’s code [i.33] •	Inadequate monitoring and logging of model’s activity [i.32] •	Weak access protection mechanisms for ML model components [i.32] Lack of code integrity checking | [ASSET-C-12] | Near-RT RIC, Non-RT RIC, xApps, rApps |
| T-AIML-MP-04 | Model Control | All | Vulnerabilities in ML model storage, vulnerabilities in ML model transfer | ASSET-D-12, ASSET-D-26, ASSET-D-27, ASSET-D-28 | Near-RT RIC, Non-RT RIC, xAPPs, rApps |
| T-AIML-MS-01 | Data Manipulation for Model Skewing | All | Vulnerabilities in (i) training data validation, (ii) less robust model training against cyber-attacks, (iii) less model performance monitoring for monitoring of suspicious activity | ASSET-D-26,  ASSET-D-27,  ASSET-D-28 | Trained ML model,  xApps, rApps, Near-RT-RIC SW, Non-RT-RIC SW |
| T-AIML-MS-02 | Feedback Manipulation for Model Skewing | All | Vulnerabilities in (i) less secure feedback mechanisms to prevent manipulation, (ii) less robust model training against cyber-attacks, (iii) less model performance monitoring for monitoring of suspicious activity | ASSET-D-26,  ASSET-D-27,  ASSET-D-28 | Trained ML model,  xApps, rApps, Near-RT-RIC SW, Non-RT-RIC SW |
| T-AIML-TL-01 | Data Poisoning for Transfer Learning | All | Vulnerabilities in data sources,  Vulnerabilities in training database | ASSET-D-10, ASSET-D-25, ASSET-D-26, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-12 | Database holding data from xApp applications and E2 Node, Training or test data sets collected externally or internally, Trained ML model, ML components deploying machine learning (xApps, rApps),Near-RT-RIC SW, Non-RT-RIC SW |
| T-AIML-TL-02 | Model Stealing for Transfer Learning | All | Vulnerabilities in data sources,  Vulnerabilities in training database,  Vulnerabilities in ML model storage,  Vulnerabilities in ML model transfer | ASSET-D-10, ASSET-D-25, ASSET-D-26, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-12 | Database holding data from xApp applications and E2 Node, Training or test data sets collected externally or internally, Trained ML model, ML components deploying machine learning (xApps, rApps),Near-RT-RIC SW, Non-RT-RIC SW |
| T-AIML-TL-03 | Adversarial Examples | All | Vulnerabilities in data sources,  Vulnerabilities in training database,  Vulnerabilities in ML model storage, Vulnerabilities in ML model transfer | ASSET-D-10, ASSET-D-25, ASSET-D-26, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-11 | Database holding data from xApp applications and E2 Node, Training or test data sets collected externally or internally, Trained ML model, Near-RT-RIC SW, Non-RT-RIC SW |
| T-AIML-TL-04 | Backdoor for Tranfer Learning | All | Vulnerabilities in ML model transfer | ASSET-D-10, ASSET-D-25, ASSET-D-26, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-12 | Database holding data from xApp applications and E2 Node, Training or test data sets collected externally or internally, Trained ML model, ML components deploying machine learning (xApps, rApps),Near-RT-RIC SW, Non-RT-RIC SW |
| T-AIML-EL-01 | Model Extraction | All | Vulnerabilities in data sources | ASSET-D-10, ASSET-D-26, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-29, ASSET-30 | Database holding data from xApp applications and E2 Node, Trained ML model, Near-RT-RIC SW, Non-RT-RIC SW, AAL software, Hardware accelerator device firmware |
| T-AIML-EL-02 | Data Inference | All | Vulnerabilities in data sources | ASSET-D-10, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-29, ASSET-30 | Database holding data from xApp applications and E2 Node, Near-RT-RIC SW, Non-RT-RIC SW, AAL software, Hardware accelerator device firmware |
| T-AIML-EL-03 | Denial of Service via Side Channels | All | Vulnerabilities in data sources | ASSET-D-10, ASSET-D-26, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-11, ASSET-C-29, ASSET-30 | Database holding data from xApp applications and E2 Node, Trained ML model, Near-RT-RIC SW, Non-RT-RIC SW, AAL software, Hardware accelerator device firmware |
| T-AIML-EV-01 | Grey-box based Data Evasion | All | Vulnerabilities in the input APIs of the AI ML model application Vulnerabilities in the source of input data used by AI ML for inferences | ASSET-D-10, ASSET-D-25, ASSET-D-26, ASSET-C-02, ASSET-C-11 | Database holding data from xApp applications and E2 Node, Training or test data sets collected externally or internally, Trained ML model, Near-RT-RIC SW, Non-RT-RIC |
| T-E2-01 | Untrusted Near-RT-RIC and E2 Nodes | All | weak mutual authentication | ASSET-C-40 | E2 interface |
| T-E2-02 | Malicious actor monitors messaging across E2 interface | All | Missing or weak confidentiality protection | ASSET-C-40 | E2 interface |
| T-E2-03 | Malicious actor modifies messaging across E2 interface | All | Lack of integrity verification | ASSET-C-40 | E2 interface |
| T-Y1-01 | Untrusted Near-RT-RIC and Y1 consumers | All | weak mutual authentication | ASSET-C-42 | Y1interface |
| T-Y1-02 | Malicious actor monitors messaging across Y1 interface | All | Missing or weak confidentiality protection | ASSET-C-42 | Y1 interface |
| T-Y1-03 | Malicious actor modifies messaging across Y1 interface | All | Lack of integrity verification | ASSET-C-42 | Y1 interface |

# Security principles

This clause elucidates security principles that an O-RAN system should achieve. They provide high level and abstract statement of the intended solution to countering potential Threats. Each security principle references applicable ZT tenets.

## Principles (SP)

### SP-AUTH Mutual Authentication

Mutual authentication SHOULD be established to allow the O-RAN system verifying who performs what, thus possible to detect fake base stations, unauthorized or malicious components, malicious applications and malicious users/administrators.

ZT Tenets: ZT-1, ZT-2, ZT-3, ZT-4, ZT-6

### SP-ACC Access Control

The O-RAN system SHOULD forbid unauthorized administrators or components to access O-RAN resources or services anytime and anywhere. Access controls are required for:

Network Access Controls for filtering unauthorized/unexpected traffic in the O-RAN components over their interfaces.

Access controls to restrict access to component configurations.

Access controls for hardware to maintain the trust chain.

ZT Tenets: ZT-1, ZT-3, ZT-4, ZT-6

### SP-CRYPTO Secure cryptographic, key management and PKI

Well-known, standardized, secure and unbroken cryptographic schemes and protocols SHOULD be used. Proprietary schemes and protocols SHOULD be avoided.

A secure key management of O-RAN keys (KgNB, KRRC-enc, KRRC-int, KUP-int, and KUP-enc, ksn) SHOULD be implemented to manage all the steps of key lifecycle: key generation using an appropriate level of entropy from a reliable source, secure key storage, key rotation and revocation, secure key destruction, etc.

Reliable PKI for authentication and data encryption SHOULD be used. Public CAs SHOULD be supported. The certificates SHOULD be issued by a trusted or rooted Certificate Authority (CA). The CA implements the Certificate Policy which specifies the rules and policies about who may or may not receive a Certificate. Relying parties can access the Certificate Policy to determine what validation/verification checks were performed prior to certificate issuance.

Each O-RU SHOULD be configured with lists of algorithms which are allowed for usage. There SHOULD be one list for integrity algorithms, and one for ciphering algorithms. These lists SHOULD be ordered according to a priority decided by the operator.

ZT Tenets: ZT-2, ZT-4

### SP-TCOMM Trusted Communication

Integrity, confidentiality, availability, authenticity and replay protection of resources SHOULD be ensured in transit (see ‘Critical Assets’, clause 6.3) over O-RAN interfaces.

ZT Tenets: ZT-1, ZT-2

### SP-SS Secure storage

Integrity, confidentiality, availability protection of O-RAN resources SHOULD be ensured at rest (see ‘Critical Assets’, clause 6.3).

ZT Tenets: ZT-1, ZT-2, ZT-4, ZT-5, ZT-6

### SP-SB Secure boot and self-configuration

O-RAN components SHOULD secure their firmware and configuration to provide the opportunity for trust to be extended higher in the software stack. Verified platform firmware can, in turn, verify the operating system (OS) boot loader, which can then verify other software components all the way up to the OS itself, the hypervisor or container runtime layers and O-RAN components. The transitive trust SHOULD be consistent with the concept of the chain of trust (CoT)-a method where each piece of code in the boot process measures and checks the signature of the next stage of the boot process before the software boots.

The secure boot process, signature verification and self-configuration SHOULD be securely implemented for all O-RAN components to authenticate them before loading.

ZT Tenets: ZT-1, ZT-3, ZT-4, ZT-5

### SP-UPDT Secure Update

A secure update management process SHOULD be implemented for introducing a new component or software change into the O-RAN system. The process SHOULD consider the ability to update the cryptographic algorithms and to adapt to upcoming O-RAN security challenges. A timely update cycles if vulnerabilities are discovered SHOULD be in place.

ZT Tenets: ZT-1, ZT-5, ZT-7

### SP-RECO Recoverability & Backup

A recoverability process to recovery in case of denial of service SHOULD be implemented. An approach for detecting and mitigating DoS attacks SHOULD be in place.

O-RAN vendors SHOULD define a recovery plan that resets the O-RAN components to a trustworthy state in case of a malfunction or an attack (e.g. DoS).

Backup systems SHOULD be in place to allow data or component on the O-RAN to be secured. Backup systems SHOULD ensure a suitable level of data or component availability and reliability.

ZT Tenets: ZT-1, ZT-5, ZT6, ZT-7

### SP-OPNS Security management of risks in open-source components

Vendors using open-source code SHOULD enhance its security by applying industry coding best practices. It is recommended that vendors practice a higher level of due diligence for exposure to public exploits when using Open-Source code.

A Software Bill of Materials (SBOM) SHOULD be maintained to track which open-source components are in use and where.

Security Analysis (Audit, vulnerability scan, etc.) SHOULD be performed to ensure all identified components are free of security vulnerabilities.

A proper policy and process SHOULD be in place for identifying and patching known issues with the open-source components. Open-source software components SHOULD be kept up to date and patched.

ZT Tenets: ZT-1, ZT-4, ZT-5, ZT-6, ZT-7

### SP-ASSU Security Assurance

Mobile networks are classified as critical infrastructure making security assurance especially more than relevant:

Vendors SHOULD ensure and prove that its software or hardware meets 3GPP Security Assurance Specifications (SCAS).

Vendors SHOULD ensure and prove that its software or hardware fulfils O-RAN security tests, requirements and recommendations provided by O-RAN ALLIANCE.

Vendors SHOULD ensure and prove that their software or hardware meets the needs of many national and international cybersecurity regulations, such as the Cyber Act, GDPR, etc.

Vendors SHOULD provide risk assessment, secure code review, penetration testing, vulnerability analysis and hardening guidelines for their O-RAN components.

ZT Tenets: ZT-1, ZT-5, ZT-7

### SP-PRV Privacy

In O-RAN, the privacy of end users SHOULD be protected. The privacy of end users can be divided into data privacy, identity privacy and personal information privacy. Most Communication services are to gather data and personal information around end users, which may reveal information sensitive to their privacy. Adversaries could further extract more personal information about end users, such as UE priority, location information, trajectory, and preference.

ZT Tenets: ZT-1, ZT-2, ZT-3, ZT-4, ZT-5, ZT-6, ZT-7

### SP-SLC Continuous security development, testing, logging, monitoring and vulnerability handling

Continuous development and continuous integration (CD/CI) with continuous regression testing and software security auditing SHOULD be implemented.

Relevant activities events SHOULD be logged and logs collected SHOULD be analyzed in real time for the identification of potential security attacks and for security auditing.

Continuous monitoring SHOULD be implemented to verify that the wanted security state is maintained throughout the lifecycle of deployed O-RAN components.

Vulnerability management SHOULD be in place with intelligence to continuously track, identify and remediate vulnerable applications. Vendors SHOULD keep track of any new vulnerabilities discovered and is ready to act on customer product security incidents and reported security issues affecting O-RAN components.

ZT Tenets: ZT-1, ZT-4, ZT-5, ZT-6, ZT-7

### SP-ISO Robust Isolation

In a multi-vendor environment, intra-domain host isolation SHOULD be enforced. In the same host, VMs, CNs, virtualization/container layer, CPU, storage, and network security isolation of resources SHOULD be ensured by implementing system security orchestration, segmentation, lifecycle management, time scheduling, monitoring and audit on the management, signaling, control and data planes, and the execution of virtualized O-RAN components.

ZT Tenets: ZT-1, ZT-2, ZT-3, ZT-4, ZT-5, ZT-7

### SP-PHY Physical security

The O-RAN system SHOULD be located at physically secure environment in a way that minimizes the risk of resource theft and destruction. It SHOULD support secure storage of sensitive data (cryptographic keys and configuration data), execution of sensitive functions (encryption/decryption, authentication), and execution of boot and update processes.

Special attention SHOULD be paid to the site intrusion and physical access threats against O-RU sites. Consequently O-RU equipment SHOULD disable all unnecessary physical and logical ports, protocols and interfaces. In addition, secure physical connections to O-RU for O&M operations SHOULD be implemented (e.g. secure laptop with secure credentials).

ZT Tenets: ZT-1, ZT-2, ZT-3, ZT-4, ZT-5, ZT-6, ZT-7

### SP-CLD Secure cloud computing and virtualization

Defense methods SHOULD be implemented: virtual machine-based intrusion detection, virtual machine-based isolation, virtual machine-based kernel protection, virtual machine-based access control, and virtual machine-based trusted computing.

ZT Tenets: ZT-1, ZT-2, ZT-3, ZT-4, ZT-5, ZT-6, ZT-7

### SP-ROB Robustness

The O-RAN system SHOULD not only ensure the robustness of software or hardware resources, but also guarantee the robustness of the cognitive radio channel for meeting the QoS of communication services required by users. In some scenarios, the robustness of spectrum sensing SHOULD be enhanced when some sensing nodes (e.g., O-RU) easily malfunction. Robustness is an essential consideration for overcoming the security threats caused by jamming, DoS or DDoS attacks.

ZT Tenets: ZT-1, ZT-2, ZT-3, ZT-5, ZT-6, ZT-7

### SP-IDM O-Cloud ID secure management

To counter threats associated with ID reuse, mismanagement, and redundancy, the O-Cloud should employ robust strategies for ID generation, validation, and lifecycle management. Properly managed IDs reduce risks of data inconsistencies, unauthorized access, and operational inefficiencies.

ZT Tenets: ZT-1, ZT-3, ZT-4, ZT-5, ZT-6, ZT-7

## Coverage Threats - Security principles

The table below illustrates how threats are covered by security principles. It outlines the list of security principles contributing to counter threats.

| SP |  | Threats |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  | T-O-RAN-01 | T-O-RAN-04 | T-O-RAN-07 | T-O-RAN-08 | T-FRHAUL-01 | T-FRHAUL-01A | T-FRHAUL-02 | T-FRHAUL-03 | T-MPLANE-01 | T-MPLANE-02 | T-MPLANE-03 | T-SPLANE-01 | T-SPLANE-02 | T-SPLANE-03 | T-SPLANE-04 | T-SPLANE-05 | T-CPLANE-01 | T-CPLANE-02 | T-UPLANE-01 | T-UPLANE-02 | T-UPLANE-03 | T-UPLANE-04 | T-ORU-01 | T-O-RU-02 | T-O-RU-03 | T-O-RU-04 | T-NEAR-RT-01 | T-NEAR-RT-02 | T-NEAR-RT-02A | T-NEAR-RT-03 | T-NEAR-RT-03A | T-NEAR-RT-04 | T-NEAR-RT-04A | T-NEAR-RT-05 |
| SP-AUTH | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-ACC | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-CRYPTO | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-TCOMM |  | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-SS | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-SB | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-UPDT | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-RECO |  | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-OPNS |  | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-ASSU | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-PRV |  | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-SLC | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-ISO | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-PHY | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-CLD |  | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-ROB |  | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |

| SP |  | Threats |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  | T-NONRTRIC-01 | T-NONRTRIC-02 | T-NONRTRIC-03 | T-NONRTRIC-04 | T-NONRTRIC-05 | T-xAPP-01 | T-xAPP-01A | T-xAPP-01B | T-xAPP-01C | T-xAPP-02 | T-xAPP-03 | T-xAPP-03A | T-xAPP-03B | T-xAPP-03C | T-xAPP-04 | T-xAPP-05 | T-xAPP-06 | T-rAPP-01 | T-rAPP-02 | T-rAPP-03 | T-rAPP-04 | T-rAPP-05 | T-rAPP-06 | T-rAPP-07 | T-PNF-01 | T-PNF-01A | T-SMO-01 | T-SMO-02 | T-SMO-03 | T-AppLCM-01 | T-AppLCM -02 | T-AppLCM -03 | T-AppLCM -04 | T-AppLCM -05 | T-AppLCM -05A | T-AppLCM -06 | T-AppLCM -07 |
| SP-AUTH | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-ACC | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-CRYPTO | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-TCOMM |  | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-SS |  | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-SB |  | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-UPDT |  | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-RECO |  | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-OPNS |  | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-ASSU | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-PRV |  | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-SLC | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-ISO |  | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-PHY |  | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-CLD |  | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-ROB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |

| SP |  | Threats |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  | T-GEN-01 | T-GEN-02 | T-GEN-03 | T-GEN-04 | T-GEN-05 | T-GEN-06 | T-VM-C-01 | T-VM-C-02 | T-VM-C-03 | T-VM-C-04 | T-VM-C-05 | T-VM-C-06 | T-IMG-01 | T-IMG-02 | T-IMG-03 | T-IMG-04 | T-VL-01 | T-VL-02 | T-VL-03 | T-O2-01 | T-OCAPI-01 | T-HW-01 | T-HW-02 | T-ADMIN-01 | T-ADMIN-02 | T-AAL-01 | T-AAL-02 | T-AAL-03 | T-AAL-04 | T-AAL-05 | T-AAL-06 | T-O-CLOUD-ID-01 | T-O-CLOUD-ID-02 | T-O-CLOUD-ID-03 | T-OPENSRC-01 | T-OPENSRC-02 | T-PHYS-01 | T-PHYS-01A | T-PHYS-01B | T-PHYS-02 | T-RADIO-01 | T-RADIO-01A | T-RADIO-02 | T-AIML-DP-01 | T-AIML-DP-02 | T-AIML-DP-03 |
| SP-AUTH | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-ACC | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-CRYPTO | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-TCOMM |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-SS | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-SB | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-UPDT | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-RECO | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-OPNS | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-ASSU | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-PRV |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-SLC | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-ISO | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-PHY |  | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-CLD | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-ROB |  | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP- IDM |  | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |

| SP | Threats |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  | T-AIML-MEI-01 | T-AIML-MEI-02 | T-AIML-MEI-03 | T-AIML-ME-01 | T-AIML-ME-02 | T-AIML-ME-03 | T-AIML-IM-1 | T-AIML-IM-2 | T-AIML-IM-3 | T-AIML-IM-4 | T-AIML-MOI-01 | T-AIML-MOI-02 | T-AIML-SC-01 | T-AIML-SC-02 | T-AIML-SC-03 | T-AIML-SC-04 | T-AIML-SC-05 | T-AIML-SC-06 | T-AIML-OI-01 | T-AILML-OI-02 | T-AIML-MP-01 | T-AIML-MP-02 | T-AIML-MP-03 | T-AIML-MP-04 | T-AIML-MS-01 | T-AIML-MS-02 | T-AIML-TL-01 | T-AIML-TL-02 | T-AIML-TL-03 | T-AIML-TL-04 | T-AIML-EL-01 | T-AIML-EL-02 | T-AIML-EL-03 | T-AIML-EV-01 | T-O-RAN-10 | T-TS-01 | T-A1-04 | T-E2-01 | T-E2-02 | T-E2-03 | T-Y1-01 | T-Y1-02 | T-Y1-03 |
| SP-AUTH | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-ACC | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-CRYPTO | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-TCOMM |  | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-SS | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-SB | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-UPDT | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-RECO | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-OPNS |  | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-ASSU | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-PRV | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-SLC | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-ISO | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-PHY |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-CLD | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-ROB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP- IDM |  | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |

# Risk assessment

After identifying the list of assets, threats and vulnerabilities, the next step is the risk assessment. The main concepts of risk assessment are illustrated in the following figure.

The criticality of the identified threats in clause 7.4 were assessed based on the severity (consequence) and the likelihood of occurrence. Indications of severity level for each threat are given whether they are considered as high, medium, or low. This severity is a global perception of the risk based on its impacts. In practice, it varies strongly depending on the use cases and deployment/configuration models of the O-RAN system.

Moreover, the type of loss (availability, integrity and/ or confidentiality) has been assessed for each threat.

## Determination of severity level process

The process followed to determine the severity level resulting from threats that successfully exploit vulnerabilities is based on Table 9-1 which includes the definition in terms of Privacy, Confidentiality, Integrity, Availability of the three severity levels ‘Low’, ‘Medium’ and ‘High’ shown here as green, yellow and red.

Table 9-1 defines what “low,” “medium” and “high” means.

The severity of an impact is expressed as follows:

Level of impact for various threats on the properties Privacy, Confidentiality, Integrity, and Availability

Scale of impact, depending on the number of affected O-RUs and /or O-DUs.

Scale of impact depending on the Clock Model and Synchronization Topology configurations LLS-C1, LLS-C2, LLS-C3 and LLS-C4 [i.10].

Adverse impacts depending on whether or not existing requirments and controls are already defined in the O-RAN requirments specifications.

| Severity level | Privacy | Confidentiality | Integrity | Availability | Number of affected O-RUs/O-DUs (Only for Threats on O-RU, O-DU, FH interface) | Clock Model and Synchronization Topology configurations (only for Threats on S-PLANE) | Adverse impacts |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Low | Disclosure of personal data which, with aggregation or processing, is unlikely to reveal unique subscriber’s identity. | Disclosure of information for internal use. No specific impact on its disclosure | Minor/Unnoticeable effect on system behavior/output | Brief Interruption in operations. (Estimated in secs/mins/hours) | One O-DU is affected with its related O-RU | DoS attacks on LLS-C2 DoS attacks on LLS-C4 | Already existing requirements and controls are defined in the O-RAN specifications to prevent, or at least significantly impede, the vulnerability from being exercised. Existing requirements and controls are only efficient to protect from both internal and external threats. |
| Medium | Disclosure of personal data (according to GDPR) which CAN be processed or aggregated to uniquely identify subscribers. NOTE: Personal data in GDPR means any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person (‘data subject’); an identifiable natural person is one who can be identified, directly or indirectly, in particular by reference to an identifier such as a name, an identification number, location data, an online identifier or to one or more factors specific to the physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or social identity of that natural person. | Disclosure of privileged information Access credentials/ configuration data, etc. | Alteration of some system functionality and features/output. | Short-term Interruption in operations. (Estimated in hours/Days) | One O-DU is affected with its related multiple O-RUs | DoS attacks on LLS-C1 | Already existing requirements and controls are defined in the O-RAN specifications to prevent, or at least significantly impede, the vulnerability from being exercised. Existing requirements and controls are only efficient to protect from external threats. |
| High | Disclosure of sensitive personal data (GDPR special category). NOTE: Special data category in GDPR: data revealing racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, or trade union membership, and the processing of genetic data, biometric data for uniquely identifying a natural person, data concerning health or data concerning a natural person’s sex life or sexual orientation. | Disclosure of high value information, trade secrets, IP, mission critical data, master-keys, etc. | Complete change in normal System functioning | Prolonged interruption of operations. (Estimated in days/Weeks) | Several O-DUs and O-RUs are affected | DoS attacks on LLS-C3 | No existing requirements and controls in the ORAN specifications yet to protect from internal and/or external threats |

NOTE 1: The severity level depends on the number of affected RUs and O-DUs. The severity level is consequently 'Low' in case of one affected O-RU, 'Medium' in case of one affected O-DU with its related multiple O-RUs, and 'High' for multiple affected O-DUs-O-RUs. Operators conducting a full risk analysis according to this report should conduct a use case-based analysis taking into account the likelihood and the real deployment of the O-RAN system.

NOTE 2:

Configuration LLS-C1

In LLS-C1, the network timing is distributed from O-DU to O-RU via direct connection between O-DU site and O-RU site. O-DU is acting as a master and directly synchronizes O-RU.

DoS attacks against the master clock: There are two scenarios:

1.     Scenario 1: One O-RU is served by O-DU, therefore only one O-RU is affected. Consequently, the severity level is ‘Low’.

2.     Scenario 2: Multiple O-RUs are served by O-DU, therefore all those O-RUs are affected as the connection between O-DU and O-RU is point-to-point. Consequently, the severity level is ‘Low’.

Configuration LLS-C2

In LLS-C2, the network timing is distributed from O-DU to O-RU between O-DU sites and O-RU sites. One or more Ethernet switches are allowed in the fronthaul network. O-DU acting as master to distribute network timing toward O-RU.

DoS attacks against the master clock within the O-DU may affect one or multiple O-RUs. In this configuration, a neighbor O-DU could act a backup and play the role of a master to distribute network timing to all the RUs belonging to the affected O-DU by reconfiguring the network of switches. Consequently, the severity level is ‘Low’.

Configuration LLS-C3

Frequency and time distribution is made by the fronthaul network itself (not by the O-DU). One or more PRTC/T-GM are implemented in the fronthaul network to distribute network timing toward O-DU and O-RU.

DoS attacks against the master clock within the fronthaul network may affect multiple O-DUs with their related O-RUs. Consequently, the severity level is ‘High’.

Configuration LLS-C4

Local PRTC timing that provides time synchronization to the O-RU (it could be embedded in the O-RU).

DoS attacks against the master clock may affect only one O-RU. Consequently, the severity level is ‘Low’.

According to what we described in the here above two notes, T-SPLANE-01 has been split in Table 9-4 according to the Clock Model and Synchronization Topology configurations C1, C2, C3, and C4.

NOTE: Adverse impacts: This factor depends on the normative O-RAN security requirements in the security requirements specification. For a threat without any requirement in front of it, the adverse impacts level is High. It is Medium or Low for a threat with related security requirements (see column ‘Assupltions’) helping in reducing its impact.

## Determination of likelihood level process

The process followed to determine the likelihood level resulting from threats that successfully exploit vulnerabilities is based on Table 9-2 which includes the relevant factors that are considered. For each factor, three levels ‘Low’, ‘Medium’ and ‘High’ are shown in Table 9-2 as green, yellow and red.

Table 9-2 defines what “low,” “medium” and “high” means.

The likelihood level is expressed by four factors as follows:

Adverse impacts: This factor depends on the existing normative O-RAN security requirements and controls. For example, the level is high in case no available O-RAN security requirements and controls in the O-RAN security specifications. In the risk assessment Table 9-4 in the column ‘Assumptions’, some of the agreed security controls by the O-RAN ALLIANCE have been stated for some threats as arguments for justifying the likelihood levels ‘Low’ or ‘Medium. This means that the likelihood level is estimated at Low’ or ‘Medium’, provided that the security controls are in place.

NOTE: This factor is used to determine the likelihood level for the most categories of threats. It is also used as a relevant factor for severity for some categories of threats, in particular the O-Cloud threats category.

Threat event initiation: This factor takes into consideration the capabilities that attackers possess and the potential entry points to exploit a vulnerability and initiate an attack. For example, it is high if an attack can be initiated from internet or untrusted network.

Exposure: This factor is related to the number of external interfaces and/or services that are exposed to an attacker.

Zero Trust Approach: Likelihood scoring considers a zero-trust architecture which protects against internal threat actors.  Likelihood scores are higher for a zero-trust architecture (ZTA) because internal threats should be considered in addition to external threats. In a ZTA it cannot be assumed that perimeter defense is sufficient.  As a result, scored Likelihood = Medium, at a minimum.   Reconnaissance type attacks can be scored Likelihood = High while damaging/availability attacks can be scored Likelihood = Medium.  The reason is that threat actors are less likely to perform damaging attacks that are quickly and easily detected. Advanced Persistent Threats (APTs) typically move laterally in anonymous fashion to prevent detection while providing reconnaissance (see O-RAN.SFG.Non-RT-RIC-Security-TR-v01.00).

| Scale | Factors | Measure of Likelihood |
| --- | --- | --- |
| High | Adverse impacts | No existing requirements and controls in the ORAN specifications yet to protect from internal and/or external threats |
| High | Threat event initiation | Attack can be launched from the internet or untrusted network |
| High | Exposure | System has a large amount of exposed interfaces (e.g. ORAN interfaces, multiple O-DU, multiple O-RU, multi administrators/customers) |
| High | ZTA | Reconnaissance type attacks |
| High | Open-source/COTS support | No vulnerability handling and patch management in place: Several CVE have already been discovered; no regular patches provided to fix the detected vulnerabilities Use of open-source module not supported by a broader community Use of non popular  COTS product |
| Medium | Adverse impacts | Already existing requirements and controls are defined in the O-RAN specifications to prevent, or at least significantly impede, the vulnerability from being exercised. Existing requirements and controls are only efficient to protect from external threats. |
| Medium | Threat event initiation | Malicious user needs to have direct access to the target system |
| Medium | Exposure | System has a medium amount of exposed interfaces (e.g. ORAN interfaces, one O-DU, multiple O-RU) |
| Medium | ZTA | Damaging/availability type attacks |
| Medium | Open-source/COTS support | Vulnerability handling and patch management in place but not efficient:  Several CVE have already been discovered; no timely patches provided to fix the discovered vulnerabilities Use of open-source module moderately supported by a broader community |
| Low | Adverse impacts | Already existing requirements and controls are defined in the O-RAN specifications to prevent, or at least significantly impede, the vulnerability from being exercised. Existing requirements and controls are only efficient to protect from both internal and external threats. |
| Low | Threat event initiation | The malicious user needs to have administrative or elevated privileges in the target system (external having internal privileges or internal having internal privileges) |
| Low | Exposure | Slightly exposed to external systems (e.g. one O-DU, one O-RU) (least privilege approach) |
| Low | ZTA | Perimeter defenses are sufficient. No potential for internal threats |
| Low | Open-source/COTS support | Component supporting open-source module: a broader community is investing in COTS modules are popular and widely used in critical infrastructure |

## Evaluation of the risks process

The following risk assessment matrix is used to assess the risk score. The matrix takes as input two estimated qualitative inputs: (i) likelihood and (ii) the severity. One axis representing the probability of a risk scenario occurring and the other representing the damage it will cause (Severity). In the middle, you have scores based on their combined totals.

Using this formula RISK= Severity x Likelihood by a simple multiply the severity and likelihood scores to obtain the final risk score as shown in Table 9-3.

For example, if the estimated likelihood of a threat is low and the corresponding severity is high, then the risk is medium.

| Severity | 3-High | 3-Medium | 6-High | 9-High |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Severity | 2-Medium | 2-Low | 4-Medium | 6-High |
| Severity | 1-Low | 2-Low | 3-Medium |  |
|  | 1-Low | 2-Medium | 3-High |  |
|  | Likelihood |  |  |  |

## Risk assessment output

The following is the risk assessment output table which illustrates the different threats along with their impacts, the type of loss, the perceived severity/likelihood levels and the risk scoring.

| THREAT ID | RISK DESCRIPTION | IMPACT DESCRIPTION | CIA | SEVERITY LEVEL | Likelihood LEVEL | Applied factors | Rationale | Considered Assumptions | Risk Score |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| T-O-RAN-01 | An attacker exploits insecure designs or lack of adoption of security controls (e.g. hardening) in O-RAN architecture elements causing: - unauthorised access - Privacy issues | Unauthenticated/unauthorized access of the O-RAN architecture element leads to compromised performance and/or function/service, lateral attack towards other O-RAN architecture element(s) from inside, and loss/stolen/tampering of sensitive data |  | High | • Exposure (High):  • Adverse impacts (High) | - High impact: Potential for system-wide compromise- High likelihood: Many interfaces are exposed to attackers |  |  |  |
| T-O-RAN-04 | An attacker disrupts O-RAN service availability using DDoS, protocol exploitation, or insecure resource management, causing congestion and service outages. | Service disruption due to flooding, malformed requests, or IoT-based botnets results in loss of access, degraded performance, and operational failures. | A | High | • Threat event initiation (High) • Adverse impacts (High) | - High impact: Disrupts network synchronization and critical service functions - High likelihood: Many exposed interfaces and components susceptible to overload |  |  |  |
| T-O-RAN-07 | An attacker hides malicious activities by exploiting insufficient logging, auditing, and traceability mechanisms across O-RAN architecture elements. | Attackers tamper with, delete, or manipulate logs to evade detection, making forensic investigations difficult. This can delay security responses, and allow threats to persist. |  | Medium | • Threat event initiation (Medium) • Adverse impacts (Medium) | - Medium impact: Requires internal access to manipulate logs. - Medium likelihood: Misconfigured or inadequate logging mechanisms are common. | Authentication procedures, patch management regular programmed update, vulnerability handling/regular scanning, SBOM are in place |  |  |
| T-O-RAN-08 | An attacker compromises O-RAN data integrity, and confidentiality | Data breaches, unauthorized modifications | C, I | High | Medium | • Threat event initiation (Medium) • Adverse impacts (Medium) | - High impact: Potential unauthorized control over critical data and services. - Medium likelihood: Existing encryption mechanisms provide some protection. |  |  |
| T-FRHAUL-01 | An attacker penetrates O-DU and beyond through O-RU (bidding-down attack) | Data tampering and information disclosure; | C, I | High | Medium | • Threat event initiation (Medium) • Adverse impacts (Medium) • Exposure (Medium) | System has an amount of exposed interfaces: multiple O-DU, multiple O-RU, FH interface. It is a possible attack, however needs physical access and sophistication to execute |  |  |
| T-FRHAUL-01A | An attacker penetrates O-DU and beyond through O-RU (bidding-down attack) | Spoofing | C, I | High | Medium | • Threat event initiation (Medium) • Adverse impacts (Medium) • Exposure (Medium) | System has an amount of exposed interfaces: multiple O-DU, multiple O-RU, FH interface. It is a possible attack, however needs physical access and sophistication to execute |  |  |
| T-FRHAUL-02 | Unauthorized access to the Open Front Haul Ethernet L1 physical layer interface (cables and connections) | It provides a means to launch attacks on the confidentiality of the Open Front Haul system. | C | High | Low | • Threat event initiation (Low) • Adverse impacts (High) | It is a possible attack, however needs physical access and sophistication to execute |  | Medium |
| T-FRHAUL-03 | Unauthorized access to the Open Front Haul Ethernet L1 physical layer interface (cables and connections) | It provides a means to launch attacks on the availability of the Open Front Haul system. | A | High | Low | • Threat event initiation (Low) • Adverse impacts (High) | It is a possible attack, however needs physical access and sophistication to execute |  | Medium |
| T-MPLANE-01 | An attacker attempts to intercept the Fronthaul (MITM) over M Plane to obtain protected information | Passive wiretapping | C | Medium | Low | • Threat event initiation (Low) • Adverse impacts (Medium) | It is a possible attack, however needs physical access and sophistication to execute | TLS with PKI is supported, it is up to MNO,  the likelihood is low provided that MNOs use TLS over the M-Plane |  |
| T-MPLANE-02 | An attacker attempts to intercept the Fronthaul (MITM) over M Plane to alter m-plane data | Intercepting and modifying of the M plane messages. | I | Medium | Low | • Threat event initiation (Low) • Adverse impacts (Medium) | It is a possible attack, however needs physical access and sophistication to execute | TLS with PKI is supported, it is up to MNO,  the likelihood is low provided that MNOs use TLS over the M-Plane |  |
| T-MPLANE-03 | An attacker attempts to intercept the Fronthaul (MITM) over M Plane to disrupt services | Denial of service | A | Medium | Low | • Threat event initiation (Low) • Adverse impacts (Medium) | It is a possible attack, however needs physical access and sophistication to execute | TLS with PKI is supported, it is up to MNO,  the likelihood is low provided that MNOs use TLS over the M-Plane |  |
| T-SPLANE-01-C1 (one O-RU scenario) | DoS attack on an O-DU acting as master to distribute network timing toward O-RU based on point-to-point connection in LLS-C1. In this scenario, only one O-RU is connected to O-DU, therefore only that O-RU is affected. | This attack may cause performance degradation or interruption of services to only one O-RU that rely on accurate time from the affected O-DU. The severity level is consequently 'Low'. | A | Low | • Exposure (Low) • Threat event initiation (Medium) | Slightly exposed to external systems: one O-RU. It is a possible attack, however needs physical access and sophistication to execute | Access control on the CUSM-Plane that mitigates unauthorized access by an insider are in place. 802.1x protocol is supported it can reduce the likelihood of this attack. |  |  |
| T-SPLANE-01-C1 (multiple O-RUs scenario) | DoS attack on an O-DU acting as master to distribute network timing toward O-RU based on point-to-point connection in LLS-C1. In this scenario, multiple O-RUs are connected to O-DU, therefore those O-RUs are affected. | This attack may cause performance degradation or interruption of services to all the RUs that rely on accurate time from the affected O-DU. The severity level is consequently 'Medium'. | A | Medium | • Exposure (Medium) • Threat event initiation (Medium) | System has a medium amount of exposed interfaces: multiple O-RUs. It is possible attack, however needs physical access and sophistication to execute |  |  |  |
| T-SPLANE-01-C2 | DoS attack on an O-DU acting as master to distribute network timing toward O-RU in LLS-C2. One or more Ethernet switches are allowed between the central site (hosting O-DUs) and the remote sites (hosting O-RUs). | This attack may cause performance degradation or interruption of services to all the RUs that rely on accurate time from the affected O-DU. In this configuration, a neighbor O-DU could act a backup and play the role of a master to distribute network timing to all the RUs belonging to the affected O-DU by reconfiguring the network of switches. The severity level is consequently 'Low'. | A | Low | Medium | • Exposure (Medium) • Threat event initiation (Medium) | System has a medium amount of exposed interfaces. It is a possible attack, however needs physical access and sophistication to execute | Access control on the CUSM-Plane that mitigates unauthorized access by an insider are in place. 802.1x protocol is supported it can reduce the likelihood of this attack. |  |
| T-SPLANE-01-C3 | DoS attack against a Master clock in the LLS-C3 configuration | In this configuration, the frequency and timing distribution is made by the fronthaul network (not by O-DU). DoS attack against a master clock may cause performance degradation or interruption of services to all the RUs and DUs that rely on accurate time from the affected master clock in the fronthaul network. The severity level is consequently 'High'. | A | High | Medium | • Exposure (Medium) • Threat event initiation (Medium) | System has a medium amount of exposed interfaces. It is a possible attack, however needs physical access and sophistication to execute |  |  |
| T-SPLANE-01-C4 | DoS attack against a Master clock in the LLS-C4 configuration | In this configuration, the time source could be locally embedded in the RU itself. DoS attack in the time source may cause performance degradation or interruption of services to only one O-RU where the time source is embedded. The severity level is consequently 'Low'. | A | Low | • Exposure (Low) • Threat event initiation (Medium) | Slightly exposed to external systems: one O-RU. It is a possible attack, however needs physical access and sophistication to execute | Access control on the CUSM-Plane that mitigates unauthorized access by an insider are in place. 802.1x protocol is supported it can reduce the likelihood of this attack. |  |  |
| T-SPLANE-02 | Impersonation of a Master clock (Spoofing) within a PTP network with a fake ANNOUNCE messages | Degradation in the accuracy of time may cause DoS to applications on all the RUs that rely on accurate time, potentially bringing down the cell. A cell outage caused by misaligned time, may further impact performance in connected neighboring cells. | A | High | Low | • Threat event initiation (Medium) • Adverse impacts (Low) | Existing controls are in place to prevent, or at least significantly impede, the vulnerability from being exercised. It is a possible attack, however needs physical access and sophistication to execute | Access control on the CUSM-Plane that mitigates unauthorized access by an insider are in place. 802.1x protocol is supported it can reduce the likelihood of this attack. | Medium |
| T-SPLANE-03 | A Rogue PTP Instance wanting to be a Grand Master by sending manipulated/malicious ANNOUNCE messages declaring him to be the best clock in the network | Degradation in the accuracy of time may cause DoS to applications on all the RUs that rely on accurate time, potentially bringing down the cell. A cell outage caused by misaligned time, may further impact performance in connected neighboring cells. | A | High | Low | • Threat event initiation (Medium) • Adverse impacts (Low) | Existing controls are in place to prevent, or at least significantly impede, the vulnerability from being exercised. It is a possible attack, however needs physical access and sophistication to execute | Access control on the CUSM-Plane that mitigates unauthorized access by an insider are in place. 802.1x protocol is supported it can reduce the likelihood of this attack. | Medium |
| T-SPLANE-04 | Selective interception and removal of PTP timing packets | Clock degradation in attacked nodes. Removing all packets or random packets may push the clocks in attacked nodes into free running mode. Degradation in the accuracy of time may cause DoS to applications on all the RUs that rely on accurate time, potentially bringing down the cell. A cell outage caused by misaligned time, may further impact performance in connected neighboring cells. | A | High | Low | • Threat event initiation (Medium) • Adverse impacts (Low) | Existing controls are in place to prevent, or at least significantly impede, the vulnerability from being exercised. It is a possible attack, however needs physical access and sophistication to execute | Access control on the CUSM-Plane that mitigates unauthorized access by an insider are in place. 802.1x protocol is supported it can reduce the likelihood of this attack. | Medium |
| T-SPLANE-05 | Packet delay manipulation attack | Degradation in the accuracy of time may cause DoS to applications on all the RUs that rely on accurate time, potentially bringing down the cell. A cell outage caused by misaligned time, may further impact performance in connected neighboring cells. | A | High | Medium | • Threat event initiation (Medium) • Adverse impacts (Medium) | Existing controls are in place to prevent (moderately satisfactory). It is a possible attack, however needs physical access and sophistication to execute | 802.1x protocol is supported it can reduce the likelihood of this attack. |  |
| T-CPLANE-01 | Spoofing of DL C-plane messages | The lack of authentication could allow an adversary to inject own DL C-plane messages that falsely claiming to be from the associated O-DU.  As a result, it would block the O-RU to process the corresponding U-Plane packets, leading to temporarily DoS. (dropping the entire DL C-plane messages would achieve same goal) | A | Medium | Low | • Threat event initiation (Medium) • Adverse impacts (Low) | Existing controls are in place to prevent, or at least significantly impede, the vulnerability from being exercised. It is a possible attack, however needs physical access and sophistication to execute | 802.1x at the ethernet level ensures authentication and authorization for communication over FH interface, not sure that this control reduce the risk of spoofing of c-plane at a low level.  Mitigations related to monitoring and configuration of network nodes are in place |  |
| T-CPLANE-02 | Spoofing of UL C-plane messages | The lack of authentication could allow an adversary to inject own UL C-plane messages that falsely claiming to be from the associated O-DU. As a result, temporarily limited cell performance (or even DoS) on cells served by the O-RU and in addition a consequential threat to all O-RUs parented to that O-DU might exist. (dropping the entire UL C-plane messages would achieve same goal) | A | Medium | Low | • Threat event initiation (Medium) • Adverse impacts (Low) | Existing controls are in place to prevent, or at least significantly impede, the vulnerability from being exercised. It is a possible attack, however, needs physical access and sophistication to execute | 802.1x at the ethernet level ensures authentication and authorization for communication over FH interface, not sure that this control reduce the risk of spoofing of c-plane at a low level.  Mitigations related to monitoring and configuration of network nodes are in place |  |
| T-UPLANE-01 | An attacker attempts to intercept the Fronthaul (MITM) over U Plane to obtain user data (PDCP protocol is used) | For the transported U-Plane data an attacker could potentially do threats, such as passive wiretapping, but would need to break PDCP Security prior to any content access. | C | Medium | Low | • Threat event initiation (Low) • Adverse impacts (Medium) | Existing controls are in place to prevent, or at least significantly impede, the vulnerability from being exercised. It is a possible attack, however, needs physical access and sophistication to execute | 802.1x protocol is supported it can reduce the likelihood of this attack. |  |
| T-UPLANE-02 | An attacker attempts to intercept the Fronthaul (MITM) over U Plane to modify u-plane data (PDCP protocol is used) | For the transported U-Plane data an attacker could potentially do threats, such as passive wiretapping, but would need to break PDCP Security prior to any content access. | I | Medium | Low | • Threat event initiation (Low) • Adverse impacts (Medium) | Existing controls are in place to prevent, or at least significantly impede, the vulnerability from being exercised. It is a possible attack, however, needs physical access and sophistication to execute | 802.1x protocol is supported it can reduce the likelihood of this attack. |  |
| T-UPLANE-03 | An attacker attempts to intercept the Fronthaul (MITM) over U Plane to disrupt services (PDCP protocol is used) | For the transported U-Plane data an attacker could potentially do threats, such as passive wiretapping, but would need to break PDCP Security prior to any content access. | A | Medium | Low | • Threat event initiation (Low) • Adverse impacts (Medium) | Existing controls are in place to prevent, or at least significantly impede, the vulnerability from being exercised. It is a possible attack, however, needs physical access and sophistication to execute | 802.1x protocol is supported it can reduce the likelihood of this attack. |  |
| T-UPLANE-04 | Spoofing and unauthorized access of U-Plane data packets | An attacker could degrade service quality, disrupt legitimate data flow, and potentially cause a DoS. | NA | Medium | Low | • Threat event initiation (Low) • Adverse impacts (Medium) | Existing controls are in place to prevent, or at least significantly impede, the vulnerability from being exercised. It is a possible attack, however, needs physical access and sophistication to execute | 802.1x protocol is supported it can reduce the likelihood of this attack. |  |
| T-ORU-01-a | An attacker stands up a rogue O-RU (standalone) - a false base station | This opens the door to subscriber’s identity interception/disclosure and unauthorized user tracking attacks (privacy breach). | C, I | High | Medium | • Threat event initiation (Medium) • Adverse impacts (Medium) | Existing controls are in place to prevent (moderately satisfactory). It is a possible attack, however needs physical access and sophistication to execute | Security measures already defined by 3GPP, monitoring/detection mechanisms of a rogue ORU are in place |  |
| T-ORU-01-b | An attacker stands up a rogue O-RU attacking O-DU and beyond (core network) | It provides a means to launch attacks on the availability, integrity, and confidentiality of the Open Front Haul system, ODUs and beyond in the core network. | C, I | High | Low | • Threat event initiation (Medium) • Adverse impacts (Low) | Existing controls are in place to prevent, or at least significantly impede, the vulnerability from being exercised. It is a possible attack, however needs physical access and sophistication to execute | 802.1x protocol is supported it can reduce the likelihood of this attack. | Medium |
| T-O-RU-02 | Inability to uniquely identify local user accounts shared across entities (e.g., SMO, O-DU) for concurrent access | Activities by multiple different controllers, for example, the SMO and/or O-RU controller, authenticating using the same shared account cannot be distinguished, compromising non-repudiation. . | I | High | Medium | • Threat event initiation (Medium) • Adverse impacts (Medium) | It is a possible attack, however, needs access and sophistication to execute. | Local user accounts are typically identical |  |
| T-O-RU-03 | Manipulation of Initial provisioning information from the Software configuration server could lead O-RU to access incorrect server. | O-RU having incorrect authentication and authorization server information can result in a DoS for the O-RU | I, A | High | Medium | • Threat event initiation (Medium) • Adverse impacts (Medium) | It is a possible attack, however, needs access and sophistication to execute. |  |  |
| T-O-RU-04 | An attacker compromises O-RU user information | Mismanagement of O-RU Credentials including account information, misclassification of O-RU users between centralized and local users | C, I | High | Medium | • Threat event initiation (Medium) • Adverse impacts (Medium) | It is a possible attack, however, needs access and sophistication to execute. |  |  |
| T-NEAR-RT-01 | Malicious xApps can exploit UE identification, track UE location and change UE priority | An xApp can receive order via A1 to control a certain UE and if a malfunctioning xApp receives an order to prioritize this UE, then the owner of the malfunctioning xApp knows a VIP that they want to track in a certain area. With this command exposure, the attacker can obtain a rough location of a very important person and change the order from prioritize to deprioritize for a UE; Interception of UE identifier | C, I | High | • Threat event initiation (High) • Adverse impacts (High) • Exposure (High) | O-RAN ALLIANCE has not specified yet any xApp security measures around the Onboarding onto SMO and deployment onto Near RT-RIC. Further, there is no testing framework in place for xApps yet. |  |  |  |
| T-NEAR-RT-02 | Risk of a malicious xApp on Near-RT RIC to obtain protected information | Deployment of malicious xApps may allow unauthorized access to E2 Nodes, abuse of radio network information, or exploit UE identification and location. | C, I | High | • Threat event initiation (High) • Exposure (High) | O-RAN ALLIANCE has not specified yet any xApp security measures around the Onboarding onto SMO and deployment onto Near RT-RIC. Further, there is no testing framework in place for xApps yet. |  |  |  |
| T-NEAR-RT-02A | Risk of a malicious xApp on Near-RT RIC impacting service availability | Deployment of malicious xApps may allow impacting service or exploit slice priority. | A | High | • Threat event initiation (High) • Adverse impacts (High) | O-RAN ALLIANCE has not specified yet any xApp security measures around the Onboarding onto SMO and deployment onto Near RT-RIC. Further, there is no testing framework in place for xApps yet. |  |  |  |
| T-NEAR-RT-03 | Near-RT RIC APIs can be compromised and manipulated due to lack, incorrect or weak authentication mechanism | Near-RT RIC data around services and UEs can be eavesdropped. | C | High | • Threat event initiation (High) • Exposure (High) | O-RAN ALLIANCE has not specified yet any Near-RT RIC APIs measures. |  |  |  |
| T-NEAR-RT-03A | Near-RT RIC APIs can be compromised and manipulated due to lack, incorrect or weak authentication mechanism | Unauthenticated APIs can be manipulated causing services disruptions in RAN network | A | High | • Threat event initiation (High) • Adverse impacts (High) | O-RAN ALLIANCE has not specified yet any Near-RT RIC APIs measures. |  |  |  |
| T-NEAR-RT-04 | Resources and services provided by Near-RT RIC platform and xApps via APIs can be abused and/or misused | Near-RT RIC data around services and UEs can be eavesdropped by xApps without proper permissions. | C | High | • Threat event initiation (High) • Adverse impacts (High) • Exposure (High) | O-RAN ALLIANCE has not specified yet any Near-RT RIC APIs measures. |  |  |  |
| T-NEAR-RT-04A | Resources and services provided by Near-RT RIC platform and xApps via APIs can be abused and/or misused | Abuse of resources and misuse of services can produce disruptions and/or outages in the network. | A | High | • Threat event initiation (High) • Adverse impacts (High) • Exposure (High) | O-RAN ALLIANCE has not specified yet any Near-RT RIC APIs measures. |  |  |  |
| T-NEAR-RT-05 | Risk of deployment of a malicious, non-uniquely identified xApps using a trusted xAppID to access resources and services which they are not entitled to use. | theft of services, data leakage | C, I | High | • Threat event initiation (High) • Exposure (High) | O-RAN ALLIANCE has not specified yet any xApp security measures around the xAppID yet. |  |  |  |
| T-NONRTRIC-01 | An attacker gains access to the Non-RT RIC through the SMO to cause a denial of service or degrade the performance of the Non-RT-RIC | Non-RT RIC would not be able to: •monitor or trace the network to understand the effect of policy on performance in Near-RT RIC  •update A1 policy                                                   •provide exposure and secure delivery of A1 Enrichment Information to Near-RT RIC                  •setup access control rules and the selection of which Enrichment Information ID (EiId) is exposed to a near-RT RIC | A | High | Medium | • ZTA (Medium) • Adverse impacts (High) | O-RAN ALLIANCE has not specified yet any security measures around the authentication and access control to the Non RT-RIC. |  |  |
| T-NONRTRIC-02 | An attacker gains access to the Non-RT RIC through the SMO for UE tracking | Attacker has access to sensitive data and is able to track a UE | C, A | High | • ZTA (High) • Adverse impacts (High) | O-RAN ALLIANCE has not specified yet any security measures around the authentication and access control to the Non RT-RIC. |  |  |  |
| T-NONRTRIC-03 | An attacker gains access to the Non-RT RIC through the SMO to cause Data Corruption/Modification | A malicious actor who gains unauthorized access to the Non-RT-RIC can modify policy to pass a “False Policy” to the Near-RT-RIC to degrade performance or cause an outage. | I, A | High | Medium | • ZTA (Medium) • Adverse impacts (High) | O-RAN ALLIANCE has not specified yet any security measures around the authentication and access control to the Non RT-RIC. |  |  |
| T-NONRTRIC-04 | Attacker exploits non-uniquely identified rApp instances to access services and obtain information | Attacker exploits non-uniquely identified rApp instances to access certain services and obtain information | C | High | Medium | • ZTA (Medium) • Adverse impacts (High) | O-RAN ALLIANCE has not specified yet any security measures around the authentication and access control to the Non RT-RIC. |  |  |
| T-NONRTRIC-05 | Attacker exploits non-uniquely identified rApp instances, gain access to services resulting in a denial of service to correct rApp instance. | A | High | Medium | • ZTA (Medium) • Adverse impacts (High) | O-RAN ALLIANCE has not specified yet any security measures around the authentication and access control to the Non RT-RIC. |  |  |  |
| T-xAPP-01 | An attacker exploits xApps vulnerabilities and misconfiguration to alter data transmitted over A1 or E2 interfaces. | If attackers can find exploitable xApp, they can disrupt the offered network service and potentially take over another xApp or the whole Near-RT RIC.  The actual consequences may vary. For example, an attacker may gain the ability to alter data transmitted over A1 or E2 interfaces, extract sensitive information, etc. | I | High | • Threat event initiation (High) • Adverse impacts (High) • Exposure (High) | O-RAN ALLIANCE has not specified yet any xApp security measures around the Onboarding onto SMO and deployment onto Near RT-RIC, authentication and access control, secure configuration, etc. Further, there is no testing framework in place for xApps yet. |  |  |  |
| T-xAPP-01A | An attacker exploits xApps vulnerabilities and misconfiguration to extract sensitive information. | If attackers can find exploitable xApp, they can disrupt the offered network service and potentially take over another xApp or the whole Near-RT RIC.  The actual consequences may vary. For example, an attacker may gain the ability to alter data transmitted over A1 or E2 interfaces, extract sensitive information, etc. | C | High | • Threat event initiation (High) • Adverse impacts (High) • Exposure (High) | O-RAN ALLIANCE has not specified yet any xApp security measures around the Onboarding onto SMO and deployment onto Near RT-RIC, authentication and access control, secure configuration, etc. Further, there is no testing framework in place for xApps yet. |  |  |  |
| T-xAPP-01B | An attacker exploits xApps vulnerabilities and misconfiguration to disrupt Near-RT RIC functions | If attackers can find exploitable xApp, they can disrupt the offered network service and potentially take over another xApp or the whole Near-RT RIC.  The actual consequences may vary. For example, an attacker may gain the ability to alter data transmitted over A1 or E2 interfaces, extract sensitive information, etc. | A | High | • Threat event initiation (High) • Adverse impacts (High) • Exposure (High) | O-RAN ALLIANCE has not specified yet any xApp security measures around the Onboarding onto SMO and deployment onto Near RT-RIC, authentication and access control, secure configuration, etc. Further, there is no testing framework in place for xApps yet. |  |  |  |
| T-xAPP-01C | An attacker exploits xApps vulnerabilities and misconfiguration to gain unauthorized control over Near-RT RIC | If attackers can find exploitable xApp, they can disrupt the offered network service and potentially take over another xApp or the whole Near-RT RIC.  The actual consequences may vary. For example, an attacker may gain the ability to alter data transmitted over A1 or E2 interfaces, extract sensitive information, etc. | C, I, A | High | • Threat event initiation (High) • Adverse impacts (High) • Exposure (High) | O-RAN ALLIANCE has not specified yet any xApp security measures around the Onboarding onto SMO and deployment onto Near RT-RIC, authentication and access control, secure configuration, etc. Further, there is no testing framework in place for xApps yet. |  |  |  |
| T-xAPP-02 | Conflicting xApps impact O-RAN system functions to degrade performance or trigger a DoS | An attacker can utilize a malicious xApp that intentionally triggers RRM decisions conflicting with the O-gNB internal decisions to create denial of service or performance degradation. | A | High | Medium | • Threat event initiation (Medium) • Adverse impacts (High) | O-RAN ALLIANCE has not specified yet any xApp security measures around the Onboarding onto SMO and deployment onto Near RT-RIC, authentication and access control, secure configuration, etc. Further, there is no testing framework in place for xApps yet. |  |  |
| T-xAPP-03 | An attacker compromises xApp isolation to tamper with the underlying system. | Gaining unauthorized access to the underlying system provides new opportunities to exploit vulnerabilities in other xApps or O-RAN architecture elements to tamper with the underlying system. | I | High | Medium | • Threat event initiation (Medium) • Adverse impacts (High) | This threat exists if no xApp security measures around the Onboarding onto SMO and deployment onto Near RT-RIC, authentication and access control, secure configuration, etc, are defined. |  |  |
| T-xAPP-03A | An attacker compromises xApp isolation to extract sensitive information from co-hosted xApps. | Gaining unauthorized access to the underlying system provides new opportunities to exploit vulnerabilities in other xApps or O-RAN architecture elements to extract sensitive information from co-hosted xApps. | C | High | Medium | • Threat event initiation (Medium) • Adverse impacts (High) | This threat exists if no xApp security measures around the Onboarding onto SMO and deployment onto Near RT-RIC, authentication and access control, secure configuration, etc, are defined. |  |  |
| T-xAPP-03B | An attacker compromises xApp isolation to degrade services. | Gaining unauthorized access to the underlying system provides new opportunities to exploit vulnerabilities in other xApps or O-RAN architecture elements. | A | High | Medium | • Threat event initiation (Medium) • Adverse impacts (High) | This threat exists if no xApp security measures around the Onboarding onto SMO and deployment onto Near RT-RIC, authentication and access control, secure configuration, etc, are defined. |  |  |
| T-xAPP-03C | An attacker compromises xApp isolation to gain elevated privileges. | Gaining unauthorized access to the underlying system provides new opportunities to gain elevated privileges. | C, I, A | High | Medium | • Threat event initiation (Medium) • Adverse impacts (High) | This threat exists if no xApp security measures around the Onboarding onto SMO and deployment onto Near RT-RIC, authentication and access control, secure configuration, etc, are defined. |  |  |
| T-xApp-04 | False or malicious A1 policies modify behaviour of xApps. | A false and malicious A1 policy can exploit xApp functionality. | I | High | Medium | • Threat event initiation (Medium) • Adverse impacts (High) | This threat exists if no xApp security measures around the Onboarding onto SMO and deployment onto Near RT-RIC, authentication and access control, secure configuration, etc, are defined. This attack, to be performed, requires multiple steps to be achieved by an attacker. |  |  |
| T-xApp-05 | False or malicious A1 policies from the Non-RT RIC modify behaviour of xApps to trigger a DoS. | A false and malicious A1 policy can exploit xApp functionality to trigger a DoS. | A | High | Medium | • Threat event initiation (Medium) • Adverse impacts (High) | This threat exists if no xApp security measures around the Onboarding onto SMO and deployment onto Near RT-RIC, authentication and access control, secure configuration, etc, are defined. This attack, to be performed, requires multiple steps to be achieved by an attacker. |  |  |
| T-xApp-06 | False or malicious A1 policies from the Non-RT RIC modify behaviour of xApps to locate a subscriber. | A false and malicious A1 policy can exploit xApp functionality to locate a subscriber. | C | High | Medium | • Threat event initiation (Medium) • Adverse impacts (High) | This threat exists if no xApp security measures around the Onboarding onto SMO and deployment onto Near RT-RIC, authentication and access control, secure configuration, etc, are defined. This attack, to be performed, requires multiple steps to be achieved by an attacker. |  |  |
| T-rAPP-01 | Conflicting rApps impact O-RAN system functions to degrade performance or trigger a DoS | rApps in the Non-RT RIC performing different functions can be provided by different vendors.  This creates the risk that different rApps will take conflicting decisions to set conflicting policies.  This can result in performance degradation or outage. | C, I, A | High | Medium | • ZTA (Medium) • Adverse impacts (High) | O-RAN ALLIANCE has not specified yet any rApp security measures around the Onboarding onto SMO and deployment onto Non RT-RIC, authentication and access control, secure configuration, etc. Further, there is no testing framework in place for rApps yet. |  |  |
| T-rAPP-02 | An attacker exploits rApp vulnerability for data breach or denial of service | Vulnerabilities can potentially exist in any rApp. If attackers can find exploitable rApp, they can disrupt the offered network service and potentially take over another rApp or the non-RT RIC.   The consequences may vary. For example, an attacker may gain the ability to alter data transmitted over A1 interface, extract sensitive information, etc. | C, I, A | High | Medium | • ZTA (Medium) • Adverse impacts (High) | O-RAN ALLIANCE has not specified yet any rApp security measures around the Onboarding onto SMO and deployment onto Non RT-RIC, authentication and access control, secure configuration, etc. Further, there is no testing framework in place for rApps yet. |  |  |
| T-rAPP-03 | An attacker exploits rApps misconfiguration | Security misconfiguration, such as open ports or enabled unused protocols, can potentially exist in an rApp. If attackers can find exploitable rApp, they can disrupt the offered network service and potentially take over another rApp or the whole non-RT RIC.   The actual consequences may vary. For example, an attacker may gain the ability to alter data transmitted over A1 interface, extract sensitive information, etc. | C, I, A | High | Medium | • ZTA (Medium) • Adverse impacts (High) | O-RAN ALLIANCE has not specified yet any rApp security measures around the Onboarding onto SMO and deployment onto Non RT-RIC, authentication and access control, secure configuration, etc. Further, there is no testing framework in place for rApps yet. |  |  |
| T-rAPP-04 | An attacker bypasses authentication and authorization | An Attacker can exploit an rApp that has weak or misconfigured authentication and authorization to gain access to the rApp and pose as a tenant. | C, I, A | High | Medium | • ZTA (Medium) • Adverse impacts (High) | O-RAN ALLIANCE has not specified yet any rApp security measures around the Onboarding onto SMO and deployment onto Non RT-RIC, authentication and access control, secure configuration, etc. Further, there is no testing framework in place for rApps yet. |  |  |
| T-rAPP-05 | An attacker deploys and exploits malicious rApp | An untrusted source may intentionally provide a malicious rApp.  A trusted source may have a backdoor intentionally inserted in the rApp.  If attackers can find exploitable rApp, they can disrupt the offered network service and potentially take over another rApp or the whole Non-RT RIC.  Malicious rApps could impact Non-RT RIC functions such as AI/ML model training, A1 policy management, Enrichment information management, Network Configuration Optimization in the purpose of performance degradation, DoS, | C, I, A | High | Medium | • ZTA (Medium) • Adverse impacts (High) | O-RAN ALLIANCE has not specified yet any rApp security measures around the Onboarding onto SMO and deployment onto Non RT-RIC, authentication and access control, secure configuration, etc. Further, there is no testing framework in place for rApps yet. |  |  |
| T-rAPP-06 | An attacker bypasses authentication and authorization using an injection attack | It is possible that an attacker to submit requests without prior authentication and authorization by executing an injection attack to manipulate configurations, access logs, perform remote code execution, etc. | C, I, A | High | Medium | • ZTA (Medium) • Adverse impacts (High) | O-RAN ALLIANCE has not specified yet any rApp security measures around the Onboarding onto SMO and deployment onto Non RT-RIC, authentication and access control, secure configuration, etc. Further, there is no testing framework in place for rApps yet. |  |  |
| T-rAPP-07 | rApp exploits services | A malicious rApp or a trusted but compromised rApp can exploit services such as O1 services across the R1 interface | A | High | Medium | • ZTA (Medium) • Adverse impacts (High) | O-RAN ALLIANCE has not specified yet any rApp security measures around the Onboarding onto SMO and deployment onto Non RT-RIC, authentication and access control, secure configuration, etc. Further, there is no testing framework in place for rApps yet. |  |  |
| T-PNF-01 | An attacker compromises a PNF to launch attacks against VNFs/CNFs | Data tampering and information disclosure;  Unauthenticated/unauthorized access of the O_RAN component leads to compromised performance and/or function/service, lateral attack towards other O-RAN system component(s) from inside, and loss/stolen/tampering of sensitive data; | C, I | High | Medium | • Threat event initiation (Medium) • Adverse impacts (Medium) | This is a likely attack but may need physical access to the PNF. |  |  |
| T-PNF-01A | An attacker compromises a PNF to launch Denial of Service attacks against VNFs/CNFs | Denial of service from within for component access and/or function/service offered | A | High | Medium | • Threat event initiation (Medium) • Adverse impacts (Medium) | This is a likely attack but may need physical access to the PNF. |  |  |
| T-SMO-01 | An attacker can exploit the misconfigured/poorly implemented authentication mechanism on SMO functions | The data stored in the SMO may be exposed/manipulated to an attacker. | C, I | High | • ZTA (High) • Threat event initiation (High) |  |  |  |  |
| T-SMO-02 | An attacker can exploit the misconfigured/poorly implemented authorization on SMO functions | An attacker can be able to perform certain actions, e.g.  disclose O-RAN sensitive information or alter O-RAN components. | C, I, A | High | • ZTA (High) • Threat event initiation (High) |  |  |  |  |
| T-SMO-03 | Overload DoS attacks at SMO | Inability to deal with such events affects availability of SMO data and functions. | A | Medium | • ZTA (Medium) • Threat event initiation (High) |  |  |  |  |
| T-SMO-04 | Internal attacker exploits authentication weakness | Internal attacker exploits authentication weakness on a SMO function | I | High | Medium |  |  |  |  |
| T-SMO-05 | Internal attacker exploits authorization weakness | Internal attacker exploits authorization weakness on SMO | I | High | Medium |  |  |  |  |
| T-SMO-06 | Internal Overload DoS attack | Internal Overload DoS attack targeted at SMO functions | A | High | Medium |  |  |  |  |
| T-SMO-07 | Internal DoS attack disables function | Internal DoS attack disables internal SMO function(s) or process(es) | A | High | Medium |  |  |  |  |
| T-SMO-08 | Insecure API to gain access | Attacker exploits insecure API to gain access to SMO | I | High | Medium |  |  |  |  |
| T-SMO-09 | Expose internal data in transit | Sensitive data in transit is exposed to an internal attacker | C, I | High | Medium |  |  |  |  |
| T-SMO-10 | Expose data at rest | Sensitive data at rest is exposed to an internal attacker | C, I | High | Medium |  |  |  |  |
| T-SMO-11 | AI/ML poisoning | AI/ML poisoning by internal attacker | I | High | Medium |  |  |  |  |
| T-SMO-12 | AI/ML exposure | AI/ML exposure on external entity | C | High | Medium |  |  |  |  |
| T-SMO-13 | Logs exposed | Malicious actor views local logs | C | High |  |  |  |  |  |
| T-SMO-14 | Log entries modified | Malicious actor modifies local log entries | I | High | Medium |  |  |  |  |
| T-SMO-15 | Log entries deleted | Malicious actor deletes local logs | I | High | Medium |  |  |  |  |
| T-SMO-16 | Log transfer intercepted | Malicious actor intercepts exports of local logs | C | High |  |  |  |  |  |
| T-SMO-17 | Unauthorized internal access to logs | Malicious external actor gains unauthorized access to logs | I | High |  |  |  |  |  |
| T-SMO-18 | Unauthorized external access to logs | Malicious internal actor gains authorized access to logs | I | High |  |  |  |  |  |
| T-SMO-19 | O2 exposes data in transit | Internal attacker exploits O2 interface to view data in transit between SMO and O-Cloud | C | High |  |  |  |  |  |
| T-SMO-20 | Data in transit modified on O2 | Internal attacker exploits O2 interface to modify data in transit between SMO and O-Cloud | C | High | Medium |  |  |  |  |
| T-SMO-21 | Unauthorized O-Cloud access via O2 | Internal attacker uses O2 interface via SMO to exploit API vulnerability to gain access to O-Cloud infrastructure | I | High |  |  |  |  |  |
| T-SMO-22 | O-Cloud flooded across O2 | Internal attacker floods O2 interface via SMO to cause DDoS on O-Cloud infrastructure | I | High | Medium |  |  |  |  |
| T-SMO-23 | Unauthorized SMO access via O2 | External attacker uses O2 interface via O-Cloud to exploit API vulnerability to gain access to SMO | I | High | Medium |  |  |  |  |
| T-SMO-24 | SMO flooded across O2 | External attacker floods O2 interface via O-Cloud to cause DDoS on SMO | A | High | Medium |  |  |  |  |
| T-SMO-25 | Unauthorized access to SMO data via O2 | External attacker uses O2 interface via O-Cloud to gain authorized access to sensitive data-at-rest at the SMO | A | High | Medium |  |  |  |  |
| T-SMO-26 | View data in transit on External interface | External attacker exploits External interface to view data in transit between SMO and external service | C | High |  |  |  |  |  |
| T-SMO-27 | Modify data in transit on External Interface | External attacker exploits External interface to modify data in transit between SMO and external service | I | High | Medium |  |  |  |  |
| T-SMO-28 | API vulnerability exploited for unauthorized SMO access | External attacker uses External interface to exploit API vulnerability to gain access to SMO | I | High | Medium |  |  |  |  |
| T-SMO-29 | SMO DoS flooded across External interface | External attacker floods External interface to cause DDoS at SMO | A | High | Medium |  |  |  |  |
| T-SMO-30 | External attacker uses External interface to access SMO | External attacker uses External interface to gain access to sensitive data-at-rest at the SMO | C, I | High | Medium |  |  |  |  |
| T-SMO-31 | External attacker poisons External AI/ML data | External attacker poisons External AI/ML data to corrupt SMO | I | High |  |  |  |  |  |
| T-SMO-32 | External attacker poisons External Enrichment Information | External attacker poisons External Enrichment Information data sources to corrupt SMO | I | High |  |  |  |  |  |
| T-SMO-33 | rApp floods SME | Misbehaving 3rd-party rApp, maliciously or non-maliciously, floods internal SMOS Communication | A | High | Medium |  |  |  |  |
| T-SMO-34 | External Consumer floods SME | External Source, maliciously or non-maliciously, floods the External interface | A | High | Medium |  |  |  |  |
| T-OPENSRC-01 | Developers use SW components with known vulnerabilities and untrusted libraries that can be exploited by an attacker through a backdoor attack | Attackers can exploit a vulnerability on the open-source code and infects a hypervisor, operating system, VM or container with a malware. | C, I, A | High | Open-source/COTS support (High) | Vulnerability handling and patch management are not yet defined by O-RAN ALLIANCE. Several CVE have already been discovered on open-source software. |  |  |  |
| T-OPENSRC-02 | A trusted developer intentionally inserts a backdoor into an open-source code O-RAN component. | Unauthenticated/unauthorized access of the O-RAN component leads to compromised performance and/or function/service, lateral attack towards other O-RAN system component(s) from inside, and loss/stolen/tampering of sensitive data; | C, I, A | High | Medium | Open-source/COTS support (High) | Vulnerability handling and patch management are not yet defined by O-RAN ALLIANCE. Several CVE have already been discovered on open-source software. |  |  |
| T-PHYS-01 | An intruder gaining physical access to O-RAN components to cause damage by manipulation / modification to software / software configuration /management | Data tampering; Unauthenticated/unauthorized access of the O-RAN component leads to lateral attack towards other O-RAN system component(s) from inside, and tampering of sensitive data; | I | High | Medium | Exposure (Medium) | O-RAN system has many external interfaces. Different O-Cloud deployment models can be used to implement O-RAN. Several scenarios to implement O-RUs and O-DUs are supported by O-RAN. |  |  |
| T-PHYS-01A | An intruder gains physical access to O-RAN components to access sensitive data | Information disclosure; Unauthenticated/unauthorized access of the O-RAN component leads to lateral attack towards other O-RAN system component(s) from inside, and effect loss of/steal sensitive data; | C | High | Medium | Exposure (Medium) | O-RAN system has many external interfaces. Different O-Cloud deployment models can be used to implement O-RAN. Several scenarios to implement O-RUs and O-DUs are supported by O-RAN. |  |  |
| T-PHYS-01B | An intruder gains physical access to O-RAN components to cause performance degradations, denial of service | Denial of service from within for component access and/or function/service offered; Unauthenticated/unauthorized access of the O-RAN component leads to compromised performance and/or function/service | A | High | Medium | Exposure (Medium) | O-RAN system has many external interfaces. Different O-Cloud deployment models can be used to implement O-RAN. Several scenarios to implement O-RUs and O-DUs are supported by O-RAN. |  |  |
| T-PHYS-02 | An intruder into the Fronthaul cable network attempts to gain electronic access to cause damage or access sensitive data | Information disclosure;  Unauthenticated/unauthorized access of sensitive data; | C | High | Medium | Exposure (Medium) | O-RAN system has many external interfaces. Different O-Cloud deployment models can be used to implement O-RAN. Several scenarios to implement O-RUs and O-DUs are supported by O-RAN. |  |  |
| T-RADIO-01 | Disruption through radio Jamming | Service disruption | A | High | Exposure (High) | These attacks are common and not specific to O-RAN. They are likely to occur, hence they need more investigation and consideration. Mitigations to reduce these types of attacks should be defined by O-RAN ALLIANCE. |  |  |  |
| T-RADIO-01A | Disruption through radio Sniffing and Spoofing | Information exposure, Authenticity challenges | C, I | High | Exposure (High) | These attacks are common and not specific to O-RAN. They are likely to occur; hence they need more investigation and consideration. Mitigations to reduce these types of attacks should be defined by O-RAN ALLIANCE. |  |  |  |
| T-RADIO-02 | DoS attacks on cognitive radio networks | Service disruption | A | Medium | High | Exposure (High) | These attacks are common and not specific to O-RAN. They are likely to occur, hence they need more investigation and consideration. Mitigations to reduce these types of attacks should be defined by O-RAN ALLIANCE. |  |  |
| T-R1-01 | A malicious actor gains unauthorized access to R1 services | “Service management and exposure services Producer” determines whether the Service Producer is authorized to produce the service.  An attacker can perform a spoofing attack to gain unauthorized access to R1 services. | C, I, A | High | Medium | • ZTA (Medium) • Adverse impacts (High) | O-RAN ALLIANCE has not specified yet any R1 security measures. |  |  |
| T-R1-02 | Attacker modifies Service Heartbeat message to cause Denial of Service | Attacker can exploit the Service Heartbeat on the R1 by modifying or inserting heartbeat messages to cause denial of service | C, I, A | High | Medium | • ZTA (Medium) • Adverse impacts (High) | O-RAN ALLIANCE has not specified yet any R1 security measures. |  |  |
| T-R1-03 | Malicious actor bypasses authentication to Request Data | Attacker can exploit password-based authentication on the R1 to request unauthorized data.  Weak password management can easily be exploited.  (Certificate-based mutual authentication using TLS and PKI X.509 certificates is recommended). | C, I, A | High | • ZTA (High) • Adverse impacts (High) | O-RAN ALLIANCE has not specified yet any R1 security measures. |  |  |  |
| T-R1-04 | Malicious actor bypasses authorization to Discover Data | “Data registration and discovery service producer” determines whether the Data Producer is authorized to produce the data types.  An attacker can perform a spoofing attack to discover available data. | C, I, A | High | • ZTA (High) • Adverse impacts (High) | O-RAN ALLIANCE has not specified yet any R1 security measures. |  |  |  |
| T-R1-05 | A malicious actor gains unauthorized access to data | An attacker can perform a spoofing attack to exploit the Data request and subscription service for the purpose to gain unauthorized access to data. | C, I, A | High | • ZTA (High) • Adverse impacts (High) | O-RAN ALLIANCE has not specified yet any R1 security measures. |  |  |  |
| T-R1-06 | Malicious actor modifies a Data Request | Data Consumers consume the “Data request and subscription service” to request data instances or subscribe to them.  An attacker can modify a request to force the consumer to receive a different data set then that intended.  Without checks, the received data could be processed, leading to erroneous decisions or triggers. | C, I, A | High | Medium | • ZTA (Medium) • Adverse impacts (High) | O-RAN ALLIANCE has not specified yet any R1 security measures. |  |  |
| T-R1-07 | Malicious actor snoops Data Delivery to the Data Consumer | Data delivery messages relate to a particular data request or subscription. The data can be delivered to the Data Consumer in different ways, including:  • as part of the payload of a data delivery message, • as a data stream,  • from e.g., a REST endpoint, a message bus or object store location. An attacker can perform snooping, injection, or modification attacks in the Delivery of Data process. | A | High | • ZTA (High) • Adverse impacts (High) | O-RAN ALLIANCE has not specified yet any R1 security measures. |  |  |  |
| T-A1-01 | Untrusted peering between Non-RT-RIC and Near-RT-RIC | Malicious Non-RT-RIC peers with a Near-RT-RIC over the A1 interface, or a malicious Near-RT-RIC peers with a Non-RT-RIC over the A1 interface, due to weak mutual authentication. | C, I, A | High | Medium | • ZTA (Medium) • Adverse impacts (High) | O-RAN ALLIANCE has not specified yet any A1 security measures. |  |  |
| T-A1-02 | Malicious function or application monitors messaging across A1 interface | Attacker gains access to A1 messaging for reconnaissance | C, I, A | High | • ZTA (High) • Adverse impacts (High) | O-RAN ALLIANCE has not specified yet any A1 security measures. |  |  |  |
| T-A1-03 | Malicious function or application modifies messaging across A1 interface | Internal threat actor can gain access to the messaging across the A1 interface for a MiTM attack to modify or inject policy.  This can result in the Near-RT RIC receiving malicious policy. | C, I, A | High | Medium | • ZTA (Medium) • Adverse impacts (High) | O-RAN ALLIANCE has not specified yet any A1 security measures. |  |  |
| T-A1-04 | Unauthorized access to Non-RT-RIC- or Near-RT-RIC- resources | A malicious actor can gain access to Near-RT-RIC resources or Non-RT-RIC resources over the A1 interface. | C, I, A | High | • ZTA (High) • Threat event initiation (High) | ZTA: ease of performing reconnaissance attacks without immediate detection  Threat event initiation: simple to execute for sophisticated inside actors |  |  |  |
| T-E2-01 | Untrusted Near-RT RIC and/or E2 Nodes | A malicious actor can spoof as - E2 Node / Near-RT RIC and communicate to other O-RAN architecture element (Near-RT RIC / E2 node) | I | High | Medium | • ZTA (Medium) • Adverse impacts (High) | Impact – High: a malicious actor spoofing an E2 Node or Near-RT RIC could inject false policies, disrupt network performance, or degrade service quality.  Likelihood – medium: authentication mechanisms prevent unauthorized access, but misconfigurations or credential leaks could allow exploitation. |  |  |
| T-E2-02 | Malicious actor monitors messaging across E2 interface | A threat actor can gain access to messages across E2 interface and can access E2 messages | C | High | Medium | • ZTA (Medium) • Adverse impacts (High) | Impact – High: intercepted E2 messages could expose sensitive operational data, leading to competitive intelligence gathering, network mapping, or further targeted attacks.   Likelihood – medium: encryption protects data in transit, but weak encryption policies or misconfigurations could make interception feasible. |  |  |
| T-E2-03 | Malicious actor modifies messaging across E2 interface | A threat actor can gain access to messages across E2 interface and can modify E2 messages | I | High | Medium | • ZTA (Medium) • Adverse impacts (High) | Impact – High: modifying E2 messages could result in faulty network configurations, or loss of service.   Likelihood – medium: integrity protections are in place, but weaknesses in implementation or insider threats may still allow exploitation. |  |  |
| T-Y1-01 | Untrusted Near-RT-RIC and Y1 consumers | A malicious actor can spoof as a valid Y1 Consumer /Near-RT RIC and communicate to other O-RAN architecture element (Near-RT RIC / Y1 Consumer) | I | High | Medium | • ZTA (Medium) • Adverse impacts (High) | Impact – High: modifying E2 messages could result in faulty network configurations, or loss of service.   Likelihood – medium: integrity protections are in place, but weaknesses in implementation or insider threats may still allow exploitation. |  |  |
| T-Y1-02 | Malicious actor monitors messaging across Y1 interface | A threat actor can gain access to messages across Y1 interface and can access Y1 messages | C | High | Medium | • ZTA (Medium) • Adverse impacts (High) | Impact – High: unauthorized access to Y1 messages could reveal sensitive data, potentially leading to security breaches.   Likelihood – medium: encryption prevents such attacks, but misconfigurations or use of outdated security protocols could allow interception. |  |  |
| T-Y1-03 | Malicious actor modifies messaging across Y1 interface | A threat actor can gain access to messages across Y1 interface and can modify Y1 messages | I | High | Medium | • ZTA (Medium) • Adverse impacts (High) | Impact – High: altering Y1 messages could disrupt AI/ML-based optimizations, causing inefficiencies, degraded network performance, or security risks.  Likelihood – medium: cryptographic protections ensure integrity, but vulnerabilities in key management or implementation flaws could be exploited. |  |  |
| T-GEN-01-a | A successful attack could: - Compromise the deployed VNF/CNF | Spoofing, Tampering, Information disclosure, Elevation of Privilege | C, I | Medium | High | • Adverse impacts (Medium),  • ZTA (High) | Adverse impacts (Medium) - Only one VNF/CNF might be affected, Existing requirements and controls are defined in the O-RAN specifications that may impede successful exercise of the vulnerability.  ZTA (High): Reconnaissance and availability type attacks | SBOM requirements   REQ-SEC-SYS-1 |  |
| T-GEN-01-b | A successful attack could: - Deployment of malicious VM/Container (Lack of isolation) - Exploit host access to escape the host and reach hardware server then the malicious VM/Container can gain root access to the whole server where it resides | Spoofing, Tampering, Information disclosure, Elevation of Privilege | C, I | High | • Adverse impacts (High),  • ZTA (High) | Adverse impacts (High) - Multiple VNFs/CNFs might be affected  ZTA (High): Reconnaissance and availability type attacks | SBOM requirements   REQ-SEC-SYS-1 |  |  |
| T-GEN-02 | A successful attack could: - Bypass access controls placed on various resources on O-Cloud - Gain increased privilege to specific O-Cloud services - Access to restricted areas of the O-Cloud network | Spoofing, Tampering, Information disclosure, Elevation of Privilege | C, I | Medium | High | • Adverse impacts (Medium),  • ZTA (High) | Adverse impacts (Medium) - Requirements are in place for user authentication and authorization  ZTA (High): Reconnaissance type attacks | REQ-SEC-PASS-1  REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-1  REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-2 |  |
| T-GEN-03-a | A successful attack could: - Make use of a untrusted VM/Container that runs on top of a trusted Hypervisor/Container Engine | Tampering, Information disclosure | C, I | Medium | High | • Adverse impacts (Medium),  • ZTA (High) | Adverse impacts (Medium) - Only one VNF/CNF might be affected  ZTA (High): Reconnaissance type attacks |  |  |
| T-GEN-03-b | A successful attack could: - Make use of a trusted VM/Container that runs on top of an untrusted Hypervisor/Container Engine to intercept communication, replace strong or use weak cryptographic keys, etc. | Tampering, Information disclosure | C, I | High | • Adverse impacts (High),  • ZTA (High) | Adverse impacts (High) - Multiple VNFs/CNFs might be affected  ZTA (High): Reconnaissance and availability type attacks |  |  |  |
| T-GEN-03-C | A successful attack could: - Make use of a trusted VM/Container that runs on top of a trusted Hypervisor/Container Engine that runs on top of an untrusted hardware to intercept communication, replace strong or use weak cryptographic keys, etc. | Tampering, Information disclosure | C, I | High | • Adverse impacts (High),  • ZTA (High) | Adverse impacts (High) - Multiple VNFs/CNFs might be affected  ZTA (High): Reconnaissance and availability type attacks |  |  |  |
| T-GEN-04 | A successful attack could: - Compromise the availability of O-Cloud services - Compromise the confidentiality/integrity of O-Cloud services by extracting/modifying critical application data | Information disclosure, Denial of Service | C, A | High | • Adverse impacts (High),  • ZTA (High) | Adverse impacts (High) – No existing controls for interfaces in O-Cloud  ZTA (High): Reconnaissance and availability type attacks |  |  |  |
| T-GEN-05 (a) | A successful attack could: - view insecurely stored credentials and cryptographic materials | Information disclosure, Elevation of Privilege | C | Medium | High | Adverse impacts (Medium),  ZTA (High) | Adverse impacts (Medium) – Requirements are defined for sensitive data protection in the O-RAN security specifications  ZTA (High): Reconnaissance type attacks | REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-2 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-3 SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-SS-1 SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-SS-2 SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-SS-3 |  |
| T-GEN-05 (b) | A successful attack could: - modify insecurely stored credentials and cryptographic materials | Tampering, Elevation of Privilege | I | Medium | Adverse impacts (Medium),  ZTA (Medium) | Adverse impacts (Medium) – Requirements are defined for sensitive data protection in the O-RAN security specifications  ZTA (Medium): Integrity type attacks | REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-2 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-3 SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-SS-1 SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-SS-2 SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-SS-3 |  |  |
| T-GEN-06 | A successful attack could: - Gain access to the sensitive information - Escalate privileges in Applications | Information disclosure, Elevation of Privilege | C | Medium | Adverse impacts (Medium),  ZTA (High) | Adverse impacts (Medium) – Requirements are defined for sensitive data protection in the O-RAN security specifications  ZTA (High): Reconnaissance type attacks |  |  |  |
| T-VM-C-01 | A successful attack could: - Compromise VM/Container isolation measures - Gain higher privileges on host or any of the containers running on that host - Perform unauthorized modifications to the contents of host filesystem e.g. install SSH keys, read secrets mounted to the host, and take other malicious actions | Spoofing, Tampering, Information disclosure, Denial of Service and Elevation of privilege | C, I, A | High | • Adverse impacts (High),  • ZTA (High) | Adverse impacts (High) – No existing requirements  ZTA (High): Reconnaissance and availability type attacks |  |  |  |
| T-VM-C-02 | A successful attack could: - Deploy a new malicious VM/Container configured without network rules, user limitations, etc. to bypass existing defenses within O-Cloud infrastructure - Compromise the confidentiality & integrity of co-hosted VMs/Containers and tenants - Launch DDOS attacks on co-hosted VMs/Containers and host services thereby degrading their performance | Spoofing, Tampering, Information disclosure, Denial of Service and Elevation of privilege | C, I, A | High | Medium | • Adverse impacts (High),  • ZTA (Medium) | Adverse impacts (High) – No existing requirements  ZTA (Medium) - Availability type attacks |  |  |
| T-VM-C-03 | A successful attack could: - Retrieve/manipulate VNF/CNF sensitive data (e.g. passwords, private keys, subscription data, logs) | Tampering, Information disclosure | C, I | High | • Adverse impacts (High),  • ZTA (High) | Adverse impacts (High) – No existing requirements  ZTA (High): Reconnaissance type attacks |  |  |  |
| T-VM-C-04-a | A successful attack could: - Cause migration Flooding: VM/Container performance degradation and VM/Container crashes | Tampering, Information disclosure, Denial of Service | C, I, A | High | Medium | • Adverse impacts (High),  • ZTA (Medium) | Adverse impacts (High) – No existing requirements  ZTA (Medium): Availability type attacks |  |  |
| T-VM-C-04-b | "A successful attack could: - Sniff the packets that are exchanged between the source and destination servers - Read the migrated memory pages - Monitor and/or modify the received packets while continuing to forward them to victim VM/Container" | Tampering, Information disclosure, Denial of Service | C, I, A | High | • Adverse impacts (High),  • ZTA (High) | Adverse impacts (High) – No existing requirements  ZTA (High): Reconnaissance type attacks |  |  |  |
| T-VM-C-05 | A successful attack could: - Misguide the Virtualization layer to reduce the resource of or delete a VM/Container on which a VNF/CNF is running. This can result in the reliability, availability or even illegal termination of a VNF/CNF and hence the denial of service - Misguide the O-Cloud platform to detach a hardware accelerator from a VNF/CNF | Denial of Service | A | High | Medium | • Adverse impacts (High),  • ZTA (Medium) | Adverse impacts (High) – No existing requirements  ZTA (Medium): Availability type attacks |  |  |
| T-VM-C-06 | A successful attack could: - Access to data not erased from a terminated VNF/CNF or any VNF/CNF that has released resources | Information disclosure | C | High | • Adverse impacts (High),  • ZTA (High) | Adverse impacts (High) – No existing requirements  ZTA (High): Reconnaissance and availability type attacks |  |  |  |
| T-IMG-01 | A successful attack could: - Insert malicious code that will subsequently get run in the production environment | Tampering, Information disclosure | C, I | Medium | High | • Adverse impacts (Medium),  • ZTA (High) | Adverse impacts (Medium) – Requirements are defined for image protection in the O-RAN security specifications  ZTA (High): Reconnaissance and availability type attacks | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-1 to REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-15  SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-1 to SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-4 |  |
| T-IMG-02 | A successful attack could: - Intercept network traffic intended for registries and steal developer or administrator credentials within that traffic. Thus, could be used to provide fraudulent or outdated images to orchestrators, etc. | Tampering, Information disclosure | C, I | Medium | High | • Adverse impacts (Medium),  • ZTA (High) | Adverse impacts (Medium) – Requirements are defined for image protection in the O-RAN security specifications  ZTA (High): Reconnaissance and availability type attacks | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-1 to REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-15  SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-1 to SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-4 |  |
| T-IMG-03 | A successful attack could: - Secrets embedded within a VM/Container image can be stolen  - Secrets embedded within a VM/Container image can be modified | Spoofing, Tampering, Information disclosure | C, I | Medium | High | • Adverse impacts (Medium),  • ZTA (High) | Adverse impacts (Medium) – Requirements are defined for image protection in the O-RAN security specifications  ZTA (High): Reconnaissance and availability type attacks | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-1 to REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-15  SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-1 to SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-4 |  |
| T-IMG-04 | A successful attack could: - Build a custom image on the host that includes malware and then may deploy container using that custom image | Spoofing, Tampering, Information disclosure, Denial of Service and Elevation of privilege | C, I, A | Medium | High | • Adverse impacts (Medium),  • ZTA (High) | Adverse impacts (Medium) – Requirements are defined for image protection in the O-RAN security specifications  ZTA (High): Reconnaissance and availability type attacks | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-1 to REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-15  SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-1 to SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-4 |  |
| T-VL-01 | A successful attack could: - Gain control over the host of a server or install a malicious Hypervisor/Container Engine/Host OS and exploit that to run malicious applications on the VM/Container that run on top of the host. This would enable the attacker to control all the VMs/Containers running on the host. | Spoofing, Tampering, Information disclosure, Denial of Service and Elevation of privilege | C, I, A | High | • Adverse impacts (High),  • ZTA (High) | Adverse impacts (High) - No existing requirements  ZTA(High) - Reconnaissance and availability type of attacks |  |  |  |
| T-VL-02 | A successful attack could cause: - Failure of the physical machine to start at all - Physical machine entering a safe-mode - Physical machine continuing boot regardless of the integrity measurements | Tampering | I | High | Medium | • Adverse impacts (High),  • ZTA (Medium) | Adverse Impact (High) - No existing requirements  ZTA(Medium) - Availability type attacks |  |  |
| T-VL-03 | A successful attack could: - cause denial-of-service against the service discovery infrastructure to prevent O-Cloud to react to changing resource requirements properly | Denial of Service | A | Medium | Adverse impacts (Medium),  ZTA (Medium) | Adverse impacts (Medium) – Requirements are defined for O-Cloud authentication and authorization in the O-RAN security specifications.  ZTA (Medium): Availability type attacks | REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-O2dms-1 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-O2dms-2 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-O2dms-3 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-O2dms-4 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-O2ims-1 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-O2ims-2 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-O2ims-3 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-O2ims-4 REQ-SEC-O-CLOUD-NotifAPI-1 REQ-SEC-O-CLOUD-NotifAPI-2 SEC-CTL-O-CLOUD-INTERFACE-1 SEC-CTL-O-CLOUD-INTERFACE-2 SEC-CTL-O-CLOUD-INTERFACE-3 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-ISO-1 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-ISO-2 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-ISO-3 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-ISO-4 |  |  |
| T-O2-01 | A successful attack could: - Tamper/alter/disclose requests and services sent over O2 between O-Cloud and SMO, hence the virtualized resource or relevant status information is not as requested - Affect the normal operation of the O-Cloud, and even causes DoS attacks, information leakage. | Tampering, Information disclosure, Denial of Service | C, I, A | Low | High | • Adverse impacts (Low),  • ZTA (High) | Adverse impacts (Low) – Requirements are defined for the protection of O2 interface in the O-RAN security specifications  ZTA (High): Reconnaissance and availability type attacks | REQ-SEC-O2-1 SEC-CTL-O2-2 REQ-SEC-DOS-1 | Medium |
| T-OCAPI-01 | A successful attack could: - Cryptographic keys or other security critical data of an instantiated VNF/CNF could be stolen by an attacker with access to the virtualization layer - The virtualized resource provided by the Virtualization layer to the instantiated VNF/CNF can be manipulated | Tampering, Information disclosure, Denial of Service | C, I, A | Low | High | • Adverse impacts (Low),  • ZTA (High) | Adverse impacts (Low) – Requirements are defined for the protection of O-Cloud API in the O-RAN security specifications  ZTA (High): Reconnaissance and availability type attacks | REQ-SEC-O2-1 SEC-CTL-O2-2 REQ-SEC-DOS-1 | Medium |
| T-HW-01 | A successful attack could: - Maliciously placed VM/Container extracts information from the target VM/Container with the side channel attack | Tampering, Information disclosure, Denial of Service | C, I, A | High | • Adverse impacts (High),  • ZTA (High) | Adverse Impact (High) - No existing requirements  ZTA (High): Reconnaissance and availability type attacks |  |  |  |
| T-HW-02 | A successful attack could: - Extract useful information such as cryptographic keys from the target VM/Container to use them for traffic eavesdropping and man-in-the-middle attacks. | Tampering, Information disclosure, Denial of Service | C, I, A | High | • Adverse impacts (High),  • ZTA (High) | Adverse Impact (High) - No existing requirements  ZTA (High): Reconnaissance and availability type attacks |  |  |  |
| T-AAL-01 | A successful attack could: - tamper the requests/responses sent between the AAL components, the O-Cloud platform and O-RAN APPs/VNFs/CNFs | Tampering | I | High | Medium | Adverse impacts (Medium),  ZTA (High) | Adverse impacts (High) – Not security requirements yet for AAL in O-RAN security specifications  ZTA (Medium): Integrity type attacks |  |  |
| T-AAL-02 | A successful attack could: - cause DoS attack or increased traffic on AAL interfaces | Denial of Service | A | High | Medium | Adverse impacts (Medium),  ZTA (High) | Adverse impacts (High) – Not security requirements yet for AAL in O-RAN security specifications  ZTA (Medium): Availability type attacks |  |  |
| T-AAL-03 (a) | Fail to clear resources | Information disclosure | C | High | Adverse impacts (High), ZTA (High) | Adverse impacts (High) – Not security requirements yet for AAL in O-RAN security specifications  ZTA (High): reconnaissance type attacks |  |  |  |
| T-AAL-03 (b) | Fail to clear resources | Denial of service | A | High | Medium | Adverse impacts (High), ZTA (Medium) | Adverse impacts (High) – Not security requirements yet for AAL in O-RAN security specifications  ZTA (Medium): Availability type attacks |  |  |
| T-AAL-04 (a) | HAM compromise | Tampering | I | High | Medium | Adverse impacts (High), ZTA (Medium) | Adverse impacts (High) – Not security requirements yet for AAL in O-RAN security specifications  ZTA (Medium): Integrity type attacks |  |  |
| T-AAL-04 (b) | HAM compromise | Denial of service | A | High | Medium | Adverse impacts (High), ZTA (Medium) | Adverse impacts (High) – Not security requirements yet for AAL in O-RAN security specifications  ZTA (Medium): Availability type attacks |  |  |
| T-AAL-05 (a) | Malicious memory accesses | Information disclosure | C | High | Adverse impacts (High), ZTA (High) | Adverse impacts (High) – Not security requirements yet for AAL in O-RAN security specifications  ZTA (High): reconnaissance type attacks |  |  |  |
| T-AAL-05 (b) | Malicious memory accesses | Tampering | I | High | Medium | Adverse impacts (High), ZTA (Medium) | Adverse impacts (High) – Not security requirements yet for AAL in O-RAN security specifications  ZTA (Medium): Integrity type attacks |  |  |
| T-AAL-05 (c) | Malicious memory accesses | Denial of service | A | High | Medium | Adverse impacts (High), ZTA (Medium) | Adverse impacts (High) – Not security requirements yet for AAL in O-RAN security specifications  ZTA (Medium): Availability type attacks |  |  |
| T-AAL-06 (a) | Software attacks | Information disclosure | C | High | Adverse impacts (High), ZTA (High) | Adverse impacts (High) – Not security requirements yet for AAL in O-RAN security specifications  ZTA (High): reconnaissance type attacks |  |  |  |
| T-AAL-06 (b) | Software attacks | Tampering | I | High | Medium | Adverse impacts (High), ZTA (Medium) | Adverse impacts (High) – Not security requirements yet for AAL in O-RAN security specifications  ZTA (Medium): Integrity type attacks |  |  |
| T-O-CLOUD-ID-01 | In the O-Cloud environment, the reuse of IDs from deleted objects for new objects can lead to unintended data associations, leaks, and operational disruptions. | Tampering, Information disclosure | C, I | High | Adverse impacts (High), ZTA (High) | Adverse impacts (High) – Not security requirements yet for O-Cloud ID in O-RAN security specifications  ZTA (High): reconnaissance and integrity type attacks |  |  |  |
| T-O-CLOUD-ID-02 | In O-Cloud deployments, replacing failed machines without proper management of their corresponding Node objects can lead to resource mismatches, stale data inheritance, and network inconsistencies. | Spoofing, Tampering, Information disclosure, Denial of Service | C, I, A | High | Adverse impacts (High), ZTA (High) | Adverse impacts (High) – Not security requirements yet for O-Cloud ID in O-RAN security specifications  ZTA (High): reconnaissance, integrity, and availability type attacks |  |  |  |
| T-O-CLOUD-ID-03 | In the O-Cloud environment, improper management of object IDs can lead to overlaps, inconsistencies, unauthorized access, and operational disruptions. | Spoofing, Tampering, Information Disclosure, Repudiation, Elevation of Privilege, Denial of Service | C, I, A | High | Adverse impacts (High), ZTA (High) | Adverse impacts (High) – Not security requirements yet for O-Cloud ID in O-RAN security specifications  ZTA (High): reconnaissance, integrity, and availability type attacks |  |  |  |
| T-ADMIN-01 | A successful attack could: - Lead to the inability to react to changing resource requirements - Operators may be unable to retrieve logs, telemetry data - Prevents the O-Cloud software update (VNFs/CNFs, VL) to exploit a known security flaw in the O-Cloud software | Denial of Service | A | Medium | • Adverse impacts (Medium),  • ZTA (Medium) | Adverse impacts (Medium) – Requirements are defined for the protection against DoS attacks and for the protection of O-Cloud API and O2 interface in the O-RAN security specifications  ZTA (Medium): Availability type attacks | REQ-SEC-DOS-1 |  |  |
| T-ADMIN-02 | A successful attack could: - Deploy new instances and disrupt existing O-Cloud services - Submit compromised VM/Container images that unsuspecting tenants then use to initiate O-Cloud services - Extract business data, configuration data, user data and possibly credentials - Create backups of VM/Container instances or export VM/Container images | Tampering, Information disclosure, Denial of Service and Elevation of privilege | C, I, A | Medium | High | • Adverse impacts (High),  • ZTA (High) | Adverse impacts (Medium) – Requirements are defined for the protection of O-Cloud API and O2 interface in the O-RAN security specifications  ZTA (High): Reconnaissance and availability type attacks | REQ-SEC-PASS-1 REQ-SEC-O2-1 SEC-CTL-O2-2 REQ-SEC-DOS-1 |  |
| T-AIML-IM-1 | A successful attack could: - Take alter a subset of the training data by inserting or modifying training samples | Integrity | I | High | Low | • Impact on integrity (High)  • Threat event initiation (low) | • Impact on integrity: Bad training data will cause the model to behave incorrectly  • Threat event initiation: needs high sophistication to execute |  | Medium |
| T-AIML-IM-2 | A successful attack could: - generate adversarial examples in the model | Tampering | I | High | Low | • Impact on integrity (High) • Threat event initiation (low) | • Impact on integrity: major change in normal AI/ML functioning • Threat event initiation: needs high sophistication to execute |  | Medium |
| T-AIML-IM-3 | A successful attack could: - mis-assign labels to training data | Tampering | I | High | Low | • Impact on integrity (High) • Threat event initiation (low) | • Impact on integrity: major change in normal AI/ML functioning • Threat event initiation: needs high sophistication to execute |  | Medium |
| T-AIML-IM-4 | A successful attack could: - allow an adversary to submit queries to the model and receive predictions (either labels or model confidences) and confidential data | Confidentiality | C | High | Low | • Impact on confidentiality (High) • Threat event initiation (low) | • Impact on confidentiality: major change in normal AI/ML functioning • Threat event initiation: needs high sophistication to execute |  | Medium |
| T-AIML-DP-01 | A successful attack could: -inject poisoned data which can be consumed by AI/ML for training. | Tampering | I | High | Medium | • Impact on integrity (High) • Threat event initiation (Medium) | • Impact on integrity: major change in normal AI/ML functioning • Threat event initiation: needs sophistication to execute |  |  |
| T-AIML-DP-02 | A successful attack could: -enable the attacker to get more details about the AI/ML algorithms being used and parameters configured if any | Tampering | I | High | Medium | • Impact on integrity (High) • Threat event initiation (Medium) | • Impact on integrity: major change in normal AI/ML functioning • Threat event initiation: needs sophistication to execute |  |  |
| T-AIML-DP-03 | A successful attack could: - enable the attacker to modify the behaviour of AI/ML algorithm with slow poisoning | Tampering | I | High | Medium | • Impact on integrity (High) • Threat event initiation (Medium) | • Impact on integrity: major change in normal AI/ML functioning • Threat event initiation: needs sophistication to execute |  |  |
| T-AIML-MEI-01 | A successful attack based on level of information available to attacker can result in disclosing specific individual’s data used in training the model | Information Disclosure | C | High | Medium | • Impact on confidentiality (High) • Threat event initiation (Medium) | • Impact on confidentiality: Knowledge of information used in training gets exposed • Threat event initiation needs sophistication to execute |  |  |
| T-AIML-MEI-02 | A successful attack based on analysis methods used by the attacker can result in disclosing specific individual’s data used in training the model | Information Disclosure | C | High | Medium | • Impact on confidentiality (High) • Threat event initiation (Medium) | • Impact on confidentiality: Knowledge of information used in training gets exposed • Threat event initiation needs sophistication to execute |  |  |
| T-AIML-MEI-03 | A successful target based attack can result in disclosing specific individual’s data or a group's data used in training the model | Information Disclosure | C | High | Medium | • Impact on confidentiality (High) • Threat event initiation (Medium) | • Impact on confidentiality: Knowledge of information used in training gets exposed • Threat event initiation needs sophistication to execute |  |  |
| T-AIML-ME-01 | A successful attack could: -Cause theft of intellectual property -Undermine the original developer's competitive advantage | Confidentiality | C | High | Low | • Impact on confidentiality (High)  • Threat event initiation (low) | • Impact on confidentiality: Disclosure of high value information  • Threat event initiation: needs high sophistication to execute |  | Medium |
| T-AIML-ME-02 | A successful attack could: -Cause privacy breaches | Confidentiality | C | High | Low | • Impact on confidentiality (High) • Threat event initiation (low) | • Impact on confidentiality: Disclosure of high value information • Threat event initiation: needs high sophistication to execute |  | Medium |
| T-AIML-ME-03 | A successful attack could: -allow adversarial attacks -allow targeted attacks | Tampering | I | High | Low | • Impact on integrity (High) • Threat event initiation (low) | • Impact on integrity: major change in normal AI/ML functioning • Threat event initiation: needs high sophistication to execute |  | Medium |
| T-AIML-MOI-01 | A successful attack could: - Cause disclosure of sensitive/proprietary data | Confidentiality | C | High | Medium | • Impact on confidentiality (High)  • Threat event initiation (medium) | • Impact on confidentiality: Disclosure of high value information  • Threat event initiation: needs medium sophistication to execute |  |  |
| T-AIML-MOI-02 | A successful attack could: - allow an attacker to reconstruct the original training data with higher accuracy | Confidentiality | C | High | Low | • Impact on confidentiality (High) • Threat event initiation (low) | • Impact on confidentiality: major change in normal AI/ML functioning • Threat event initiation: needs high sophistication to execute |  | Medium |
| T-AIML-SC-01 | A successful attack could: -corrupt or manipulate training datasets - cause degraded performance, wrong decisions, or even backdoors in the final system | Tampering, Denial of Service | IA | High | Medium | • Impact on confidentiality (High) • Threat event initiation (Medium) | needs sophistication to execute |  |  |
| T-AIML-SC-02 | A successful attack could: -inject malicious code or logic into the AI model itself during training or deployment | Tampering, Confidentiality | CI | High | Low | • Impact on confidentiality (High) • Threat event initiation (low) | needs high sophistication to execute |  | Medium |
| T-AIML-SC-03 | A successful attack could: -infect the model with malicious code that remains dormant until it receives a specific trigger | Tampering, Confidentiality | CI | High | Low | • Impact on confidentiality (High) • Threat event initiation (low) | needs high sophistication to execute |  | Medium |
| T-AIML-SC-04 | A successful attack could: -manipulate the hardware used for AI processing, such as GPUs, ASICs, or FPGAs | Tampering, Confidentiality | CI | High | Low | • Impact on confidentiality (High) • Threat event initiation (low) | needs high sophistication to execute |  | Medium |
| T-AIML-SC-05 | A successful attack could: -inject malicious code or exfiltrate sensitive information from the target system. | Tampering, Confidentiality | CI | High | Low | • Impact on confidentiality (High) • Threat event initiation (low) | needs high sophistication to execute |  | Medium |
| T-AIML-SC-06 | A successful attack could: -insert vulnerabilities or backdoors that attackers can exploit | Tampering, Confidentiality | CI | High | Low | • Impact on confidentiality (High) • Threat event initiation (low) | needs high sophistication to execute |  | Medium |
| T-AIML-OI-01 | A successful attack could cause : -	service disruption of the O-RAN elements that are using configuration / policies derived from the manipulated output of a model . | Denial of Service | A | High | Medium | • Impact on Availability (High) • Adverse impacts (Medium) | • Impact on Availability (High): Prolonged interruption of operations. • Adverse impacts (Medium) – O-RAN ALLIANCE has specified security for O-RAN interfaces at the transport layers thereby mitigating access to O-RAN functions through the interfaces. The O-RAN ALLIANCE has not yet specified security for regarding the Training or test data sets collected externally or internally, Trained ML model, ML prediction results . |  |  |
| T-AIML-OI-02 | AI/ML models are used to perform QoE optimization and QoE based traffic steering in O-RAN [i.14]. A carefully crafted manipulation of the output of AI/ML model can be used to degrade the QoE of a subscriber or a group of subscribers. | Tampering | I | High | Medium | • Impact on Integrity (High) • Adverse impacts (Medium) | • Impact on Integrity (High): Major change in normal AI/ML system functioning. • Adverse impacts (Medium) – O-RAN ALLIANCE has specified security for O-RAN interfaces at the transport layers thereby mitigating access to O-RAN functions through the interfaces. The O-RAN ALLIANCE has not yet specified security for regarding the Training or test data sets collected externally or internally, Trained ML model, ML prediction results . |  |  |
| T-AIML-MP-01 | A successful attack can change the parameters file which will cause the model to make incorrect predictions. | Tampering | I | High | Medium | • Impact on integrity (High)  • Threat event initiation (Medium) | • Impact on integrity: major change in normal AI/ML functioning  • Threat event initiation needs sophistication to execute |  |  |
| T-AIML-MP-02 | A successful attack can change the inference algorithm which will cause the model to make incorrect predictions. | Tampering | I | High | Medium | • Impact on integrity (High)  • Threat event initiation (Medium) | • Impact on integrity: major change in normal AI/ML functioning  • Threat event initiation needs sophistication to execute |  |  |
| T-AIML-MP-03 | A successful attack can change the learning algorithm which will cause the model to make incorrect predictions. | Tampering | I | High | Medium | • Impact on integrity (High)  • Threat event initiation (Medium) | • Impact on integrity: major change in normal AI/ML functioning  • Threat event initiation needs sophistication to execute |  |  |
| T-AIML-MP-04 | A successful attack could: - create a Trojan trigger in the model -send malicious local model updates in federated learning | Integrity | I | High | Low | • Impact on integriity (High) • Threat event initiation (low) | • Impact on integrity: Disclosure of high value information • Threat event initiation: needs high sophistication to execute |  | Medium |
| T-AIML-MS-01 | A successful attack could: modify data which can result in a skewed trained model resulting in incorrect ML output | Tampering | I | High | Medium | • Impact on integrity (High) • Threat event initiation (Medium) | • Impact on integrity: major change in normal AI/ML functioning • Threat event initiation needs sophistication to execute |  |  |
| T-AIML-MS-02 | A successful attack could: manipulate the feedback mechanism used by AI/ML for continuous improvement during deployment, which can be result in a skewed trained model resulting in incorrect ML output | Tampering | I | High | Medium | • Impact on integrity (High) • Threat event initiation (Medium) | • Impact on integrity: major change in normal AI/ML functioning • Threat event initiation needs sophistication to execute |  |  |
| T-AIML-TL-01 | A successful attack could: -corrupt or manipulate training datasets - cause degraded performance, wrong decisions, or even backdoors in the final system | Tampering | I | High | Medium | • Impact on integrity (High) • Threat event initiation (Medium) | needs sophistication to execute |  |  |
| T-AIML-TL-02 | A successful attack could: - extract sensitive information about its architecture and parameters | Confidentiality | C | High | Low | • Impact on confidentiality (High) • Threat event initiation (low) | needs high sophistication to execute |  | Medium |
| T-AIML-TL-03 | A successful attack could: - bypass security systems or cause misclassifications in critical applications like self-driving cars or healthcare. | Tampering | I | High | Low | • Impact on integrity (High) • Threat event initiation (low) | needs high sophistication to execute |  | Medium |
| T-AIML-TL-04 | A successful attack could: -infect the model with malicious code that remains dormant until it receives a specific trigger | Tampering, Confidentiality | CI | High | Low | • Impact on confidentiality and integrity (High) • Threat event initiation (low) | needs high sophistication to execute |  | Medium |
| T-AIML-EL-01 | A successful attack could: - deduce the structure of the neural network, including the types of layers, their sequence, and possibly hyperparameters | Confidentiality | C | High | Low | • Impact on confidentiality (High) • Threat event initiation (Low) | needs high sophistication to execute |  | Medium |
| T-AIML-EL-02 | A successful attack could: - make inferences about the input data, potentially leading to privacy breaches, especially if the data is sensitive | Confidentiality | C | High | Low | • Impact on confidentiality (High) • Threat event initiation (low) | needs high sophistication to execute |  | Medium |
| T-AIML-EL-03 | A successful attack could: - maximize energy consumption or computation time, leading to a denial of service by overloading the system or draining battery life. | Denial of Service | A | High | Low | • Impact on availability (High) • Threat event initiation (low) | needs high sophistication to execute |  | Medium |
| T-AIML-EV-01 | A successful attack could: - Compromise Authentication Systems tricking AI/ML systems into granting access to unauthorized users - Undermine Integrity of Data by tricking AI/ML systems into drawing incorrect conclusions | Tampering | I | High | Medium | • Impact on integrity (High) • Threat event initiation (Medium) | needs sophistication to execute |  |  |
| T-TS-01 | Disruption or manipulation of the time synchronization process within the O-Cloud environment can lead to severe security and operational issues. | An attacker may target the time synchronization mechanisms to alter time settings across nodes, leading to data integrity loss, authentication and authorization bypass, and operational disruption. | I, A | High | Medium | Impact of Integrity and Availability (High)  Threat Event Initiation (Medium) | Impact of Integrity and Availability (High): due to potential widespread operational and security impacts, including data integrity loss and operational disruptions affecting multiple nodes.  Threat Event Initiation (Medium): it requires elevated privileges to modify time synchronization settings. |  |  |
| T-AppLCM-01 | Compromise of App/VNF/CNF update package integrity during onboarding | A successful attack could result in the injection of malicious code into the update package before onboarding, potentially compromising the O-RAN system. | I, A | High | Medium | • Impact on integrity (High) • Threat event initiation (Medium) | • High impact because it compromises the supply chain. • Medium likelihood due to required access to SMO or onboarding process. |  |  |
| T-AppLCM-02 | Compromise of App/VNF/CNF update image integrity during instantiation | A successful attack could modify the update image during instantiation to deploy malicious code, potentially disrupting O-RAN services. | I, A | High | Medium | • Impact on integrity (High) • Threat event initiation (Medium) | • High impact as tampering can propagate malicious code. • Medium likelihood since access to the O-Cloud platform is needed. |  |  |
| T-AppLCM-03 | Downgrade attack to vulnerable application version | A successful attack could force a system downgrade to a vulnerable application version, potentially exposing the O-RAN system to known exploits. | I, A | High | Medium | • Impact on integrity and availability (High) • Threat event initiation (Medium) | • High impact as older vulnerabilities are reintroduced. • Medium likelihood since attackers need control over version management. |  |  |
| T-AppLCM-04 | Attacker exploits missing or improperly defined elements of application’s SecurityDescriptor | A successful attack could exploit improperly defined elements in the application’s SecurityDescriptor, potentially leading to unauthorized access. | A | High | Medium | • Impact on availability and authorization (High) • Threat event initiation (Medium) | • High impact as resource misuse or privilege escalation can occur. • Medium likelihood because discovering misconfigurations requires effort. |  |  |
| T-AppLCM-05 | Malicious actor modifies application’s SecurityDescriptor to gain unauthorized access | A successful attack could modify the SecurityDescriptor to gain unauthorized access. | I | High | Medium | • Impact on integrity (High) • Threat event initiation (Medium) | • High impact as it undermines security controls. • Medium likelihood as descriptor modification requires access. |  |  |
| T-AppLCM-05A | Malicious actor modifies application’s SecurityDescriptor to degrade services | A successful attack could modify the SecurityDescriptor, potentially disrupting services and degrading performance. | I, A | High | Medium | • Impact on integrity and availability (High) • Threat event initiation (Medium) | • High impact due to potential service degradation. • Medium likelihood since descriptor access is required but feasible. |  |  |
| T-AppLCM-06 | Improper decommissioning of application | Improper decommissioning of an application risks exposing credentials and misallocating resources. | C, A | High | Medium | • Impact on confidentiality and availability (High) • Threat event initiation (Medium) | • High impact depending on exposed secrets. • Medium likelihood as decommissioning oversights are common. |  |  |
| T-AppLCM-07 | Improper deletion of application sensitive data | A successful attack could recover sensitive data (e.g., certificates, keys) left behind after deletion. | C | High | Medium | • Impact on confidentiality (High) • Threat event initiation (Medium) | • High impact as exposed data could enable widespread breaches. • Likelihood depends on whether secure deletion is enforced. |  |  |


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG11.TR.ZTA-R004-v04.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG11.TR.ZTA-R004-v04.00"
---

# NIST Zero Trust Tenet Applicability

## NIST ZT Tenets overview

Numerous interpretations and discussions of ZT emphasize the imperative of eliminating wide-area perimeter defences. They define ZT as a transformative shift from a location-centric paradigm to an identity, context, and data-centric approach with fine-grained security controls between users, systems, applications, data, and assets that change over time.  NIST Special Publication 800-207 [i.6] defines ZT through a set of basic tenets that should be involved in zero trust architectures. While acknowledging the ideal nature of these tenets, NIST recognizes that these tenets practical application may differ based on specific strategic considerations. The basic tenets, essential for a comprehensive Zero Trust Architecture, are detailed below:

- All data sources and computing services are considered resources. This tenet emphasizes that all classes of devices, ranging from large devices to sensors, and all types of computing services, should be considered as resources that need protection within the Zero Trust Architecture (ZTA), whether they are personally owned or enterprise-owned resources.
- All Communication is secured regardless of network location. This means that trust should not be automatically granted based on the device being on the enterprise network infrastructure. Instead, all communication should be conducted in the most secure manner available, protecting confidentiality and integrity, and providing source authentication.
- Access to individual enterprise resources is granted on a per-session basis. Trust in the requester is evaluated before access is granted. Moreover, access should be granted with the least privileges needed to complete the task.
- Access to resources is determined by dynamic policy—including the observable state of client identity, application/service, and the requesting asset—and may include other behavioural and environmental attributes. These rules and attributes are based on the needs of the business process and an acceptable level of risk. Resource access and action permission policies can vary based on the sensitivity of the resource/data. Least privilege principles are applied to restrict both visibility and accessibility.
- The enterprise monitors and measures the integrity and security posture of all owned and associated assets. No asset is inherently trusted. The security posture of the asset needs to be evaluated and considered when evaluating a resource request. An enterprise implementing a ZTA should establish a continuous diagnostics and mitigation (CDM) or a similar system to monitor the state of devices and applications and should apply patches/fixes as needed.
- All resource authentication and authorization are dynamic and strictly enforced before access is allowed. This is a constant cycle of obtaining access, scanning and assessing threats, adapting, and continually reevaluating trust in ongoing communication as defined and enforced by policy, striving to achieve a balance of security, availability, usability, and cost-efficiency.
- The enterprise collects as much information as possible about the current state of assets, network infrastructure and communications and uses it to improve its security posture. This data should be utilized to improve policy creation and enforcement, and to support contextual access control decisions.

## NIST ZT Tenets applicability study

### ZT Tenet 1 Applicability Study

#### Applicability Study

This tenet addresses the dynamic shifts in enterprise network trends, encompassing various internal networks, remote offices with distinct local infrastructures, remote individuals, and cloud-based assets existing beyond enterprise-owned network boundaries—common scenarios encountered in Open RAN deployments. The increasing complexity surpasses traditional perimeter-based network security methods, given the absence of a single, easily identifiable enterprise perimeter.

The ZTA approach primarily concentrates on safeguarding data and services but should extend its coverage to include all enterprise assets (devices, infrastructure components, applications, virtual and cloud components) and subjects (end users, applications, and other non-human entities seeking information from resources) [i.6]. Consequently, ZT security models operate on the assumption that an attacker is present in the environment, and no enterprise-owned environment is inherently more trustworthy than a non-enterprise-owned one. Addressing this tenet becomes imperative for establishing robust security measures within such contexts.

In the context of a ZT-based O-RAN architecture adhering to ZT tenet 1, each data source and computing service in the O-RAN system should be considered a resource. As depicted in [i.8], this tenet necessitates the system owner to identify resources within the 5GS, enabling the construction of the ZTA around these resources. In the 5G landscape, network assets, including UEs, RAN, transport, Core, applications, and services, are acknowledged as assets and data sources with distinct system owners. Computer resources running NFs and applications are also recognized as assets.

#### Conclusion

The significance of Zero Trust Architecture's first tenet is notably pronounced in the context of O-RAN deployments. By emphasizing the safeguarding of data sources and computing services, the tenet addresses the unique challenges posed by diverse network assets in O-RAN architectures. This approach ensures that each component, whether locally owned or part of a broader ecosystem, is considered a valuable resource within the zero trust framework, thereby enhancing security measures tailored to the specific demands of O-RAN environments.

### ZT Tenet 2 Applicability Study

#### Applicability study

The relevance of this tenet is particularly evident in the context of Radio Access Network (RAN) considerations for several compelling reasons. O-RAN introduces elements like disaggregation, open interfaces, and diverse deployment models, expanding the potential attack surface. Components such as the O-RAN Service Management and Orchestration (SMO), Radio Intelligent Controller (RICs), and RIC Apps within the Open RAN framework are susceptible to exploitation for confidentiality, integrity, and availability attacks from both external and internal threats [i.8]. Therefore, addressing tenet 2 is crucial within the Open RAN architecture to effectively mitigate these security vulnerabilities.

In the context of a ZT-based O-RAN architecture adhering to ZT tenet 2, all network communications should prioritize confidentiality, integrity, and source authentication. In 5G, encryption, integrity protection, authentication schemes, and security protocols are employed to secure communication among participating entities in the network.

In summary, this tenet holds significant importance for O-RAN by stressing the necessity of robust security standards across all communications, regardless of their network location. With O-RAN's distinctive features like disaggregation, open interfaces, and third parties' applications, tenet 2 becomes essential for preventing security issues. By prioritizing confidentiality, integrity, and source authentication in network communications, Tenet 2 stands as a fundamental element in establishing a secure O-RAN framework, offering protection against potential threats both internal and external.

### ZT Tenet 3 Applicability Study

For a zero trust based O-RAN architecture, each access request to O-RAN resources must adapt the principle of ZT tenet 3 with strong authentication, and fine-grained access control at every point of access.

In the O-RAN architecture there are multiple Points Of Access (POA) that have been considered for the applicability of ZT tenet 3 study.

- User Access to SMO: User Access to internet facing SMO services and applications.
- User Access to the O-Cloud Orchestration layer: User Access to VMs and containers via the O-Cloud Management Plane (EXAMPLE: Kubernetes API server).
- User Access to O-Cloud Host OS Access: User Access via SSH to Host OS.
- User Access to O-Cloud Hardware Infrastructure: User authentication and authorization for accessing the network storage, and compute resources.
- Network Function to Network Function Access:  NF to NF communication over O-RAN defined interfaces.
- User access to TNE: User Access to Transport Network Elements, such as switches, routers, or other network devices.
- Device access to the network (Open FH): Device access to open fronthaul resources like O-DU, O-RU FHM, Grandmasters etc.
- User Reauthentication: Ensuring that a user accessing a protected resource is the same user who initially authenticated at the start of the session.
O-RAN ALLIANCE WG11 follows the principle of ZT tenet 3 while defining security controls and measures in the "O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications" [i.2]. WG11 has specified security requirements and security controls for the following points of access - [2], [5] and [7].

-	The current access control security mechanism specified are mTLS, IPsec, OAuth2.0, IEEE 802.1X, and NACM that ensures granular access control for O-RAN fronthaul and non-fronthaul interfaces.

-	Communication between Network Functions over O-RAN defined interfaces has been secured based on the principles of zero trust.

-	Security controls and measures have been defined for the access control for certain O-RAN components like access of O-Cloud using SMO via the O2 interface and access of NFs using SMO via the O1 interface.

Access control for the following points of access is not specified currently- user access to internet facing SMO services, user access to O-Cloud orchestration layer, O-Cloud Host OS, User Access of NFs from Host/O-Cloud node of SMO or other hosts. Access control mechanisms to these need to be evaluated for defining specific security recommendations that align to the ZT tenet 3 principle. This will ensure that the identity of the subject that is requesting access to a specific O-RAN resource identity is always verified, the subject possesses the necessary rights and meets the environment specific requirements to access the requested resource.

Human users, services, and applications request access to specific O-RAN network components. It is essential to authenticate every subject based on its unique identity and use RBAC rules to authorize and enforce least privilege access to the requested resources. By implementing Access Control Policies based on the Principle of Least Privilege (POLP), operators can effectively prevent attackers from moving laterally within the network.

WG11 should expand on the ZT tenet 3 principle of session-based access control to encompass the user access scenarios identified in [1],[3],[4],[6]. This will allow to define additional security controls and measures for granular categorization of access policies considering Just-in-time access, Least privileges and Just enough access for each subject identity and their rights to access the destination O-RAN assets.

### ZT Tenet 4 Applicability Study

In the O-RAN architecture, human users (subjects) can generate remote access requests to O-RAN architecture elements such as SMO, O-Cloud or O-CU/O-DU/O-RU:

a) from geo-locations that may or may not be under the direct control of the network operator,

b) using devices that are not managed by the operator,

c) over public or hybrid (public/private) networks.

It is therefore essential to control access to the requested resources not just based on the identity of the user, but also based on additional attributes of the end-user such as his/her location, end-user device hygiene, past history or behavioural information (risk-profile) etc. These attributes are captured as inputs to dynamic access policies that influence authentication and authorization of the user.

For a zero-trust based O-RAN architecture, every access to O-RAN resources should adapt the principle of ZT tenet 4 that defines and enforces access policies which are continuously updated based on inputs from continual monitoring (ZT tenet 5) of the network,

O-RAN architecture currently considers OAuth based authorization decision for several of its interfaces. These are based on static policies that define the scope of access granted to the requesting subject. OAuth does not define policies that take into account the location or security posture of the requesting client. Similarly, NACM does not define dynamic policies.

Additionally, WG11 has a requirement for DDoS protection mitigation measures for the O2 interface in SMO. There are however no requirements to use these DDoS mitigation measures to continuously update the access requests decision process or dynamic block listing.

WG11 proposes to further study and define ZT tenet 4 based access controls policies for accessing the O-RAN and Non-ORAN assets.

Define attributes for user, services, and devices that need to be continuously monitored

Define access control policies that are dynamically updated based on inputs from continuous monitoring of the above attributes

Study the Policy decision and enforcement points for defining and enforcing ZT tenet 4 access policies in the O-RAN architecture, as described in clause 3 of NIST SP 800-207 [i.6].

These attribute-based access control policies would effectively manage, monitor, limit, and revoke access to Device, Infrastructure, Application and Services [DIAS].

As described in clause 4.2.4.2, human users, services, and applications request access to O-RAN network components from potentially untrusted locations, using unmanaged devices and over public or hybrid networks. It is therefore essential to include these parameters while authenticating and authorizing the subjects. Dynamic policy-based infrastructure is recommended that considers these attributes for policy generation and enforcement.

This would entail defining the user, network and device attributes for defining access control policies that would apply to all interfaces in the O-RAN network, user access to all O-RAN components as described in the ZT tenet 3 study.

### ZT Tenet 5 Applicability Study

ZT tenet 5 allows us to design continuous diagnostics of security events, logs etc. and evaluation of access requests to O-RAN and Non-O-RAN Assets based on security posture. O-RAN WG11 Security Log Management work item relates to the principle of zero trust architecture, however, gap analysis should be conducted to ensure ZT tenet 5 compliancy. The gap analysis would ensure the coverage of all the O-RAN assets that is being added as a part of the ZTA work item. The study would also ensure that the collection of data is sufficient for ZT tenet 7 to utilize it to improve the security posture.

As part of ZT tenet 5, WG11 would cover continuous monitoring and alerting of User Authorizations, Data access, Resource Authorization (Application/workload), User/Device Interactions. It is also essential to study the integration of threat Intelligence as a part of the ZT tenet 5 study. This would entail a continuous security monitoring system that measures integrity, and security posture of all assets in the areas of access management, behavioural analytics, configuration management, software integrity checks, vulnerability scans, security anomaly detection, etc.

For a zero trust O-RAN Architecture, ZT tenet 5 plays a critical role to detect and alert of Adversarial Lateral movements.

WG11 should expand on the ZT tenet 5 principles that monitors the O-RAN assets to address any gaps of security monitoring and perform "Continuous and dynamic security monitoring" to maintain them in their most secure states possible for comprehensive visibility. WG11 intends to come up with recommendation, industry standard security best practices to attain the advanced zero trust maturity model.

### ZT Tenet 6 Applicability Study

#### 4.2.6.1   Introduction

ZT tenet 6: All resource authentication and authorization are dynamic and strictly enforced before access is allowed.

According to ZT tenet 6 as stated in NIST SP 800-207 [i.6], user access to resources is continuously re-evaluated. Any changes in the security posture of either the subject or the resource trigger reauthentication and reauthorization of the access request. This tenet expands on ZT tenet 4, which pertains to access requests through dynamic policies and ZT tenet 5 of continual monitoring to re-evaluating user transactional flow and enforcing policies based on abnormal behaviour, time-based factors, and environmental considerations.

#### 4.2.6.2    Applicability Study

In the O-RAN architecture, there are multiple points of access that a user may request access to. The user undergoes authentication and authorization before granting access to the resources. Although the user was authorized for accessing the resource, the user behaviour might change on account of various factors, such as:

- Access over a different network
- Unknown applications on the device trying to access the resource.
- Hidden malware on the device trying to access the resource.
- Unusual/abnormal access patterns (e.g. location, time change compared to known user patterns)
It is essential to monitor the security posture of the subject and network resources to evaluate the trust at any given point of time and trigger reauthentication and reauthorization if needed to do so. Failure to do so may result in a compromised user account or an internal threat actor that remains undetected, and may trigger reconnaissance, continued access to the protected resource, leading to a lateral movement in the network, thus causing large outages, data theft, or sabotage of the network.

As a result, the O-RAN architecture should adapt the principle of ZT tenet 6 where every access request is continuously reevaluated to determine that the trust can be maintained and established. Continuous evaluation of all values related to the authentication, inspection, and access determinations based on the subject and destination resource should be continuously assessed.

- Utilizing ongoing security monitoring (ZT tenet 5) to identify change in the security posture of subject and resource -of user access for O-Cloud Platform, mTLS, IPsec, IEEE 802.1X for authentication, OAuth2.0 and NACM based authorization decision for different O-RAN interfaces. However, there are no requirements and controls for periodic evaluation of authentication and authorization based on continuous security monitoring related information (e.g. threat assessments, security posture etc.) as well as dynamic policies that trigger-reauthentication and reauthorization of subjects.
Therefore, WG11 proposes to further study and define ZT tenet 6 based access policies for accessing the O-RAN and Non-ORAN (defined) assets of an O-RAN deployment.

Gap Analysis of the current authentication and authorization security mechanisms for each O-RAN network point of access.

Define Dynamic Authentication and Authorization policies based on the continuous security monitoring related data (ZT tenet 5), user activity patterns, device hygiene, security posture of the user and the requested access resource.

Establish Automated Identity Lifecycle Management policies that allow blacklisting, considering the ZT tenet 5 threat and security posture assessment of any user and devices.

Identity and context-based logical access boundary for devices, infrastructure, application and data.

#### 4.2.6.3    Conclusion

WG11 has addressed DoS prevention and preventing content-based attacks through an interface as well as logging requirements on failed/malicious access request attempts related to ZT tenet 5. However, the dynamic assessment of authentication and authorization processes to continuously reassess trust during ongoing communications, as outlined in ZT tenet 6 is applicable to O-RAN and requires further study.

This entails studying the dynamic authentication and authorization mechanisms based on continuous identity and attributes verification of an ongoing communication. The dynamic access control policies will consider the security monitoring data (ZT tenet 5) and deployment related aspects to dynamically enforce reauthentication and reauthorization of User access to O-RAN assets and revoke access if needed. This tenet allows an operator to define and control the authentication and authorization decision points for the entire O-RAN deployment, that considers continual authentication and conditional authorization to prevent any lateral movement in the O-RAN network.

### ZT Tenet 7 Applicability Study

In the O-RAN architecture, security monitoring and security log and event management is crucial for maintaining a secure and robust security posture of all O-RAN components. Log analysis, including anomalous user behaviour, unusual network traffic patterns, and unauthorized access attempts, can facilitate the detection and mitigation of lateral movement as observed in [i.11].

With the ZT tenet 5 we have a Proactive approach. It focuses on setting up logging of security events to reduce potential damage from the beginning. With the ZT tenet 7 we have a Reactive approach. It involves constantly monitoring for suspicious activity after access is granted and it focuses on detecting and responding to unauthorized or unusual activity.

WG11 has specified Security Log Management requirements and controls but has not defined procedures to leverage data collection to improve asset security posture by identifying vulnerabilities, monitoring access patterns, and access request decisions based on contextual insights and behavioural analytics.

It is essential to study the logging and monitoring infrastructure to understand the type of data collected, use data analytics mechanisms to understand the security posture of O-RAN and Non-O-RAN assets. This will be an enabler to build an infrastructure to enforce dynamic security policies thus improving security posture for O-RAN assets and Non-O-RAN assets. Based on contextual insights and behavioural analytics policy enforcement can be in the area of user access to O-RAN and Non O-RAN component, service to service communication, mitigation of adversarial lateral movements, mitigation of DDOS attacks against any interface, isolation of any NF due to abnormal behaviour etc.

For a zero trust O-RAN Architecture, ZT tenet 7 plays a critical role.

WG11 should expand on the ZT tenet 7 principles that allow us to collect as much information as possible about the current state of assets, network infrastructure and communications and uses it to improve its security posture. This enables an operator to detect anomalous behaviour, identify potential security threats, and take timely mitigation actions as referenced in [i.10] tenet 7 evaluation. WG11 intends to come up with recommendation, industry standard security best practices to attain the advanced zero trust maturity model.

## NIST ZT Tenets applicability summary

All seven ZT tenets are applicable to O-RAN, with varying levels of specification in O-RAN ALLIANCE specifications. Full realization for some tenets may require integration with systems outside the scope of O-RAN, which will be left to the operator. The role of the O-RAN ALLIANCE in these cases should be to produce security requirements, controls and specifications that support these tenets. Table 4.3-1 provides a summary with justification of the NIST ZT tenet applicability study for O-RAN.

| Tenet | Applicable | Justification |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Tenet 1 |  | Recognizing all data sources and computing services as resources within O-RAN architecture is vital for holistic ZT security. |
| Tenet 2 |  | This tenet holds significant importance for O-RAN by stressing the necessity of robust security standards across all communications, regardless of their network location. With O-RAN's distinctive features like disaggregation, open interfaces, and third parties' applications, tenet 2 becomes essential for preventing security issues. |
| Tenet 3 |  | Users, services, and applications within the O-RAN system seek access to designated network components. Authenticating each entity based on its distinct identity and adhering to the principle of least privilege are crucial. Through the implementation of Access Control Policies aligned with the Principle of Least Privilege, operators can effectively prevent attackers from moving laterally within the network. |
| Tenet 4 |  | O-RAN should specify the required infrastructure and capabilities for capturing the observable state of the requesting client's (subject's) identity and the requesting device, along with any additional behavioural and environmental attributes relevant to this tenet, to facilitate creation and enforcement of dynamic policies by operators. |
| Tenet 5 |  | O-RAN should establish measures to support security monitoring, integrity assessment, and evaluation of the security posture for all O-RAN assets. These measures may include employing behavioural analytics, managing configurations, conducting software integrity checks, performing vulnerability scans, and detecting security anomalies, among other methods. Outputs from these measures are processed by the operators to decide on access requests. |
| Tenet 6 |  | It is essential to monitor the security posture of the subject and network resources to evaluate the trust at any given point of time and trigger reauthentication and reauthorization if needed to do so. Failure to do so may result in a compromised user account or an internal threat actor remaining undetected, and may trigger reconnaissance, continued access to the protected resource, or lead to a lateral movement in the network, thus causing large outages, data theft, or sabotage of the network. As a result, the O-RAN architecture should adapt the principle of ZT tenet 6 where every access request is continuously reevaluated to determine that the trust can be maintained and established. |
| Tenet 7 |  | To improve the security posture of the system, O-RAN should develop the capability to collect as much information as possible about the current state of assets, network infrastructure and communications. This will enable operators to utilize this information to improve policy creation and enforcement. |

# ZTA Assets

## Asset Categories

Traditional perimeter-based network defenses with multiple layers of disjointed security technologies have proven themselves unable to meet cybersecurity needs in the current threat environment [i.13]. Organizations require a more effective approach to securing their infrastructure and providing unified yet granular access control to data, services, applications, and infrastructure [i.13]. Zero Trust focuses on protecting critical data and resources rather than solely relying on traditional network or perimeter security. ZT implements continuous multi-factor authentication, micro-segmentation, encryption, endpoint security, automation, analytics, and robust auditing across different resources [i.14]. Zero Trust Architecture treats each asset as a micro-perimeter to protect against both internal and external threats [i.8]. To mitigate cyber risk effectively, ZT planners should define the organization's protect surface, which the NSTAC report defines as the area protected by ZT policies [i.15].

In the following, we describe five categories of assets that need to be considered for ZTA analysis. It is important to note that some categories include two types of assets: O-RAN assets and assets that are not specified by O-RAN ALLIANCE. While the later are outside the scope of O-RAN specification, we include them to highlight the importance of considering them for analysis for a holistic ZTA for O-RAN system.

- Data: O-RAN data encompasses both structured and unstructured files and fragments that are currently or have previously been present in O-RAN systems, devices, networks, applications, databases, infrastructure, and backups (including both on-premises and virtual environments), along with their corresponding metadata.
- Interfaces:
- O-RAN Interfaces: Interfaces defined and maintained by O-RAN, as specified in [i.1].
- Interfaces not specified by O-RAN: This includes interfaces defined and maintained by 3GPP, but seen as part of the O-RAN architecture [i.1]:
- Architecture Elements:  This asset category comprises the architecture elements as defined in [i.1].
- Infrastructure: The infrastructure category within O-RAN assets encompasses a wide array of components, including both physical and virtual elements, as well as various platforms. It includes:
- O-RAN infrastructure assets:
- Hardware: This comprises servers, data centers, and other networking equipment that form the physical foundation of the O-RAN infrastructure. This includes FHGW (Fronthaul Gateway), FHM (Fronthaul Manager), and TNE (Transport Network Element).
- Operating System and Firmware: These are essential software components that provide the foundational functionality for the hardware components, enabling them to operate efficiently and effectively. This includes OS kernel, Bootloader, O-Cloud DMS, and O-Cloud IMS.
- Virtualization Layer: This refers to the software layer that enables the virtualization of hardware resources, allowing for the creation and management of virtual instances of servers, networking equipment, and other infrastructure components. This layer includes components like virtual machines (VMs), containers, and hypervisors.
- Infrastructure assets not specified by O-RAN: These components are essential for managing and facilitating communication between various O-RAN network elements. This includes GM, which is a component within the O-RAN architecture but not defined by O-RAN ALLIANCE.
- Services: A service is a software component participating in a service-oriented architecture that provides functionality or participates in realizing one or more capabilities [i.20].
- O-RAN services: This includes O-RAN services that operate in both on-premises and cloud environments, such as AI/ML workflow services [i.21], O-Cloud O2ims and O2dms services.
- Services not specified by O-RAN: It encompasses third-party services providing various functionalities for O-RAN applications, including security services like PKI, IAM, and SIEM.

## Defined Assets

The high-level scope of the assets in scope for the ZTA analysis is outlined in Table 5.2-1.

| Scope | Data | Interfaces | Architecture Elements | Infrastructure | Services |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| O-RAN Assets | Keys, Credentials RAN Analytics UE-Id UE-Location AI/ML training data Configuration data Logs | A1, E2, O1, O2, R1, Y1 Open Fronthaul C-Plane, S-Plane, U-Plane, M-Plane External Interfaces | SMO (including Non-RT RIC and rApps) Near-RT RIC (including xApps) O-CU-CP  O-CU-UP  O-DU  O-RU O-eNB O-Cloud* | O-Cloud HW, OS, and virtualization infrastructure Hardware and OS of O-RAN PNFs FHGW, FHM, TNE | AI/ML Services |
| Assets not specified by O-RAN ALLIANCE |  | F1-c, F1-u, E1, NG-c, NG-u, X2-c, X2-u, Xn-c, Xn-u, Uu interfaces [i.1] | GM | Security Services (PKI, IAM, SIEM) |  |

> NOTE:	In O-RAN, O-Cloud is considered an architecture element; however for the purposes of the ZTA security analysis, it is considered as infrastructure.
The detailed list of assets in scope for the ZTA analysis is in clause 6.3 Critical Assets of [i.4] which lists the O-RAN data, interfaces and components that were used to perform security threat modelling and risk assessment and have formed the basis of the development of security requirements and controls within the various security work items.

The following clauses identify new assets in the decoupled SMO, O-Cloud and the Open Fronthaul that have not yet been incorporated into clause 6.3 of [i.4].

## New Assets

### New Assets in the SMO

| Asset ID | Asset Description | Component | Interface | When | Protection Level |  |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Asset ID | Asset Description | Component | Interface | At rest | In transit | Confidentiality | Integrity | Availability | Replay | Authenticity |
| Components (logical, virtual, physical) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| ASSET-C-X | SMO Service: Service Management and Exposure (SME) |  | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| ASSET-C-X | SMO Service: Data Management and Exposure (DME) |  | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| ASSET-C-X | SMO Service: Topology Exposure and Inventory Management (TE&IM) |  | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| ASSET-C-X | SMO Service: rApp Management |  | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| ASSET-C-X | SMO Service: Network Function Orchestrator (NFO) |  | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| ASSET-C-X | SMO Service: Federated O-Cloud Orchestration and Management (FOCOM) |  | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| ASSET-C-X | SMO Service: RAN NF Fault Management (FM) |  | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| ASSET-C-X | SMO Service: RAN NF Configuration Management (CM) |  | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| ASSET-C-X | SMO Service: RAN NF Performance Management (PM) |  | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| ASSET-C-X | SMO Service: A1 Enrichment Information Management |  | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| ASSET-C-X | SMO Service: A1 Policy Management |  | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| ASSET-C-X | SMO Service: SW Package Onboarding |  | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| ASSET-C-X | SMO Service: Service Orchestration |  | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| ASSET-C-X | SMO Service: Service Assurance |  | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| ASSET-C-X | SMO Service: RAN Analytics |  | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| ASSET-C-X | SMO Service: AI/ML Workflow |  | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| ASSET-C-X | SMOS Communications |  | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |

### O-Cloud Assets

The table below lists assets associated with O-Cloud, incorporating existing assets from the Threat Model [i.4] and expanding them with new assets based on the ZTA approach.

| Asset type | Asset ID | Asset Title | Asset description | Security properties |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Asset type | Asset ID | Asset Title | Asset description | C | I | A |
| Data | Existing Assets in the Threat model: ASSET-D-12 to ASSET-D-18, ASSET-D-20, ASSET-D-29, ASSET-D-31 to ASSET-D-38 |  |  |  |  |  |
| Services | ZT-OCLOUD-S-X1 | O2ims services | It is responsible for infrastructure management services for O-Cloud Nodes. It offers the following services APIs [8]: O2ims_InfrastuctureInventory Services O2ims_InfrastructureMonitoring Services O2ims_InfrastructureProvisioning Services O2ims_InfrastructureSoftwareManagement Services O2ims_InfrastructureLifecycleManagement Services | x |  |  |
| Services | ZT-OCLOUD-S-X2 | O2dms services | It is responsible for the deployment management services of the NF Deployment. It offers the following services APIs [7]: O2dms_DeploymentInventory Services O2dms_DeploymentProvisioning Services O2dms_DeploymentFault Services O2dms_DeploymentPerformance Services O2dms_DeploymentLifecycle Services | x |  |  |
| Infra-structure | Physical | ZT-OCLOUD-I-X1 | O-Cloud Hardware | It includes servers, data centers |  | x |
| Infra-structure | Logical | Existing Assets in the Threat model: ASSET-C-08, ASSET-C-29, ASSET-C-30 |  |  |  |  |
| Infra-structure | Logical | ZT-OCLOUD-I-X2 | O-Cloud OS Software | It includes firmware and host OS. | x |  |
| Infra-structure | Logical | ZT-OCLOUD-I-X3 | O-Cloud DMS | O-Cloud DMS software responsible for automating deployment processes and managing the lifecycles of applications within the O-Cloud. |  | x |
| Infra-structure | Logical | ZT-OCLOUD-I-X4 | O-Cloud IMS | O-Cloud IMS software responsible for the management of the cloud's physical and virtual resources. |  | x |
| Infra-structure | Logical | ZT-OCLOUD-I-X5 | O-Cloud Virtualization Layer | It includes hypervisors or container engines. |  | x |
| Infra-structure | Logical | ZT-OCLOUD-I-X6 | O-Cloud VMs | O-Cloud virtual machines. |  | x |
| Infra-structure | Logical | ZT-OCLOUD-I-X7 | O-Cloud Containers | O-Cloud containers. |  | x |
| Applications | ZT-OCLOUD-A-X1 | O-RAN Applications workloads | The workloads of O-RAN applications deployed within the O-Cloud. | x |  |  |
| Applications | Existing Assets in the Threat model: ASSET-C-23 (O2 protocol stack) |  |  |  |  |  |

### New Assets in the Open Fronthaul

| Asset ID | Asset Description | Component | Interface | When | Protection Level |  |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Asset ID | Asset Description | Component | Interface | At rest | In transit | Confidentiality | Integrity | Availability | Replay | Authenticity |
| Data & Interfaces |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Components (logical, virtual, physical) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| ASSET-C-X | Transport Node Equipment (TNE) |  | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| ASSET-C-X | Fronthaul Multiplexor (FHM) |  | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| ASSET-C-X | Fronthaul Gateway (FHGW) |  | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| ASSET-C-X | GM (Grand Master) |  | x |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |

### New Assets in F1 (Midhaul)

| Asset ID | Asset Description | Component | Interface | When | Protection Level |  |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Asset ID | Asset Description | Component | Interface | At rest | In transit | Confidentiality | Integrity | Availability | Replay | Authenticity |
| Data & Interfaces |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| ASSET-D-X | The F1-c interface, as defined by 3GPP, is between the gNB-CU-CP and gNB-DU logical nodes. In O-RAN, it reuses the principles and protocol stack defined by 3GPP but is adopted between the O-CU-CP and the O-DU logical nodes, as well as for the definition of interoperability profile specifications. [i.1] | O-DU, O-CU-CP | F1-c |  | x |  |  |  |  |  |
| ASSET-D-X | The F1-u interface, as defined by 3GPP, is between the gNB-CU-UP and gNB-DU logical nodes. In O-RAN, it reuses the principles and protocol stack defined by 3GPP but is adopted between the O-CU-UP and the O-DU logical nodes, as well as for the definition of interoperability profile specifications. [i.1] | O-DU, O-CU-UP | F1-u |  | x |  |  |  |  |  |

# Reference ZTA Security Requirements

## ZTA Framework

### CISA's Zero Trust Maturity Model (ZTMM)

The US Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) developed the Zero Trust Maturity Model (ZTMM) [i.9]. ZTMM offers a systematic approach for organizations seeking to sustain ongoing modernization initiatives in the dynamic realms of cybersecurity and technology. It serves as a guide for organizations in crafting and executing their transition plans towards Zero Trust Architectures. CISA's Maturity Model (MM) outlines a phased and incremental approach for the effective implementation of a ZTA across four stages: Traditional, Initial, Advanced, and Optimal, as illustrated in Figure 6.1-1. Emphasizing a comprehensive perspective, the model introduces five critical pillars for Zero Trust: Identity, Devices, Networks, Applications & Workloads, and Data. Each pillar is supported by distinct Pillar-specific Functions, delineating specific requirements that should be maintained across the four stages. For instance, under the Identity pillar, functions are specified with requirements tailored to each stage. Additionally, the model incorporates Cross-cutting Functions, which traverse all pillars and can evolve throughout the four stages. These cross-cutting functions encompass Visibility and Analytics, Automation and Orchestration, and Governance. The overarching concept is for agencies to assess their current enterprise stage, establish a target stage, conduct a meticulous gap analysis, and formulate a strategic plan accordingly. This structured approach ensures a methodical progression towards optimal Zero Trust implementation, tailored to the specific needs and requirements of each organization.

### DoD Zero Trust Strategy and Reference Architecture

The United States Department of Defense (DoD) Zero Trust Strategy [i.18] and Reference Architecture [i.14] collectively form a comprehensive framework guiding the implementation of zero trust principles. The Reference Architecture (RA) serves as a foundational element, presenting a capability-centric framework structured around architectural Pillars and Principles. This framework provides essential guidance for the strategic development of zero trust concepts, offering a systematic approach to conduct gap analyses, formulate requirements, oversee implementation, guide execution decision-making, and facilitate the procurement and deployment of necessary zero trust capabilities and activities. Simultaneously, the DoD Zero Trust Strategy serves as a crucial companion, furnishing actionable guidance that spans the entire spectrum of zero trust initiatives. The strategy encompasses a holistic approach, aligning seamlessly with the Reference Architecture to fortify the DoD's cybersecurity posture in a rapidly evolving threat landscape.

The ZT Pillars in the DoD ZT Architecture align seamlessly with industry-standard identification of ZT Pillars. As illustrated in Figure 6.1-2, the seven Pillars within the DoD ZT Architecture include: User, Devices, Network, Applications/Workload, Data, Visibility/Analytics, and Automation/Orchestration. Each Pillar serves as a key focus area for the implementation of specific zero trust controls, ensuring a holistic and effective security approach.

Each pillar consists of multiple capabilities. Capabilities mean the ability to achieve a specific goal using different methods and resources. These capabilities use current technologies in zero trust and may change in the future. The Pillars and capabilities work together to give the best visibility and protection to data. Moreover, the DoD proposed the DoD ZT Capability roadmap that describes how the Department currently envisions achieving the capability-based outcomes and activities sequenced over time to achieve the DoD Zero Trust Target Level and Advanced Zero Trust [i.18, i.19].

The DoD framework also includes a Maturity Model that outlines the logical progression from an existing security model to an advanced zero trust architecture. This Maturity Model serves as a reference to assist information system owners in conceptualizing their transition from their current state to their desired architecture. The stages of the Maturity Model begin with As-Is state and progress through Baseline and Intermediate to Advanced stages, reflecting the evolution of zero trust capabilities and controls [i.14].

It is also important to note that the DoD Zero Trust Target Level encompasses a defined subset of DoD Zero Trust capabilities. This level includes both Baseline and Intermediate zero trust maturity stages, as outlined by the Zero Trust Reference Architecture (ZT RA). The DoD Advanced Zero Trust, on the other hand, represents the achievement of the full set of DoD-identified zero trust capabilities and aligns with the Advanced maturity stage [i.14, i.18].

### Comparison of ZTMM models

CISA ZTMM [i.9] and DoD ZTMM [i.14] complement NIST's ZTA by offering a roadmap for organizations to assess their current maturity level and provide guidance on steps to incrementally progress to higher maturity stages. The CISA and DoD ZTMMs mostly align with some differences, as described below.

The four CISA ZTMM stages - Traditional, Initial, Advanced, and Optimal - are achieved for each of five pillars: Identity, Devices, Networks, Applications and Workloads, and Data. The CISA ZTMM also includes three cross-cutting functions across the five pillars: Visibility and Analytics, Automation and Orchestration, and Governance. These cross-cutting functions align with NIST tenets 4, 5, and 7 mentioned above.

The four DoD ZTMM stages – As-is, Baseline, Intermediate, and Advanced - are achieved for each of seven pillars: User, Device, Networks, Applications and Workloads, Data, Visibility and Analytics, and Automation and Orchestration.  The last two pillars in the DoD ZTMM model are considered cross-cutting functions by CISA.

A diagram overlaying the CISA and DoD ZTMM models is shown in Figure 6.1-3.

### Selection of CISA ZTMM Model

The CISA ZTMM version 2 [i.9] has been selected as the primary reference model for two reasons:

- CISA embeds its cross-cutting functions across its five pillars, instead of making those standalone pillars as the DoD ZTMM does. The CISA approach is preferred for O-RAN since Visibility and Analytics and Automation and Orchestration are applicable to all pillars and should not be silo'd.
- CISA does not prescribe a timeline to reach its final stage, Optimal.  While the DoD provides guidelines for implementation timelines, these are applicable to DoD use cases, which are outside the scope of O-RAN ALLIANCE.

## Target ZTA Security Requirements

### Identity

#### Authentication

##### O-RAN ZTA Security Requirements for Authentication

| CISA ZTMM Function | Traditional | Initial | Advanced | Optimal |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Authentication | Based on  credentials | Credentials + Additional attributes (policy driven) | Phishing resistant MFA* (for e.g. FIDO) *applies to users | Continual Authentication |

##### Guidance for Gap Analysis:

- Additional attributes (contextual attributes) apply only to human user and external communication, and applicable to Architecture Elements having user access such as SMO.
- Phishing resistant MFA security control applies to human user access and not applicable to application-to-application access and device authentication.
- If there is mutual authentication for internal communications, we consider the stage as INITIAL.
- For internal interfaces, authentication based on credentials alone (certificate, pre-shared key, etc.) can be considered as meeting INITIAL maturity level.

#### Access Management (Authorization)

##### O-RAN ZTA Security Requirements for Access Management (Authorization)

| CISA ZTMM Function | Traditional | Initial | Advanced | Optimal |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Access management (Authorization) | Long Lived access with manual revoking for privilege and unprivileged accounts | Short lived access for privileged access requests, with automated revoking | Need based and Session based access for all accounts tailored to actions and resources | Just-in-time and Just-enough access provided through automation |

- This function applies to APIs and user access.
- For applications, static role assignments (e.g. role binding of a service account) with ephemeral tokens can be considered as INITIAL stage.
- For users, tokens with expiry can be considered as INITIAL stage.

#### Identity Stores

##### O-RAN ZTA Security Requirements for Identity Stores

| CISA ZTMM Function | Traditional | Initial | Advanced | Optimal |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Identity Stores | Self-Managed On Prem Identity Stores | Self-managed and externally hosted identity stores co-exist with limited connectivity (SSO) | Consolidation of Self-managed and hosted identity stores. | Centralized Identity Stores |

- None as this is a new function.
- WG11 to provide recommendation for Identity Stores.

#### Risk Assessment

##### O-RAN ZTA Security Requirements for Risk Assessment

| CISA ZTMM Function | Traditional | Initial | Advanced | Optimal |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Risk Assessment | Limited identity risk assessment | Identity risk assessment though manual and static methods | Automated identity risk assessment to enforce dynamic access decisions and response activities. | Continuous Identity Risk Assessment in real time for adapting dynamic ongoing protection mechanism. |

- None as this is a new function.
- WG11 to provide recommendation for Identity Risk Assessments.

### Devices

#### Policy enforcement & Compliance monitoring

##### O-RAN ZTA Security Requirements for Policy enforcement and compliance monitoring

| CISA ZTMM Function | Traditional | Initial | Advanced | Optimal |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Policy Enforcement and Compliance Monitoring | No device visibility for device compliance                                                    No policy enforcement mechanism or  managing software, configurations, or vulnerabilities. | Basic Device  characteristics visibility.                                                        Basic  policy enforcement mechanism for managing software, configurations, or vulnerabilities. | Automated methods to manage devices and virtual assets.                                                          Automated policies to approve software configuration and identify vulnerabilities and install patches. | Continual verification of devices and virtual assets compliance and                                       Unified management and enforcement of policies |

- Please refer to the table in clause 6.2.3.2.2 for different stages of this function, since there is no specific guidance.

#### Resource Access (Authorization)

##### O-RAN ZTA Security Requirements for Resource Access

| CISA ZTMM Function | Traditional | Initial | Advanced | Optimal |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Resource Access (Authorization) | No visibility into devices or virtual assets used to access resources | Some visibility into devices or virtual assets' characteristics to approve resource access. | Full visibility into devices; Initial resource access considers verified device or virtual asset insights. | All resource access considers real-time risk analytics within devices and virtual assets. |

- Use device characteristics or virtual asset characteristics (e.g. Access Control Rules (policy), environmental conditions) to approve resource access to align to the INITIAL stage.

#### Device Threat Protection

##### O-RAN ZTA Security Requirements for Device Threat Protection

| CISA ZTMM Function | Traditional | Initial | Advanced | Optimal |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Device Threat Protection | Manual deployment of threat protection capabilities to some devices. | Some automated processes for deploying and updating threat protection capabilities to devices and to virtual assets with limited policy enforcement and compliance monitoring integration. | Consolidate threat protection capabilities to centralized solutions for devices and virtual assets and integrates most of these capabilities with policy enforcement and compliance monitoring. | Centralized threat protection security solution(s) deployed with advanced capabilities for all devices and virtual assets and a unified approach for device threat protection, policy enforcement, and compliance monitoring. |

- The guidance for gap analysis of 'Device Threat Protection' function is for further study.

### Networks

#### Network Segmentation

##### O-RAN ZTA Security Requirements for Network Segmentation

| CISA ZTMM Function | Traditional | Initial | Advanced | Optimal |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Network Segmentation | Perimeter / Macro- segmentation | Micro segmentation for critical workloads, and limiting network access to a specific function | Application-Aware micro-segmentation with ingress/egress micro-perimeters | Dynamic policy driven application-Aware Micro-segmentation; Allows for JEA/JIT setup/teardown of micro-perimeters |

- Perimeter based security protection like VPN tunnel access is considered as Traditional.
- Micro segmentation for critical workloads using namespaces, VLANs is considered as INITIAL .
> NOTE:	Definition of micro-perimeter in the scope of O-RAN ALLIANCE is yet to be specified.

#### Traffic Encryption

##### O-RAN ZTA Security Requirements for Traffic Encryption

| CISA ZTMM Function | Traditional | Initial | Advanced | Optimal |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Traffic Encryption | Minimal traffic encryption with manual or ad hoc key management | Encryption for all internal (and preferably external) application traffic, with formalized key management policies and secure encryption keys. | Encryption for all traffic, with key and certificate life cycle management | Encryption of all traffic, enforces least privilege principles and crypto-agility |

- Symmetric key based encryption methods, such as IPsec for E2, can be classified as being in the INITIAL stage.
- Certificate lifecycle management will upgrade the maturity to Advanced.

#### Network Traffic Management

##### O-RAN ZTA Security Requirements for Network Traffic Management

| CISA ZTMM Function | Traditional | Initial | Advanced | Optimal |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Network Traffic Management | Static network rules/policies apply to critical applications | Static Ingress and Egress network rules/policies to all applications | Dynamic network policies based on risk that are automatically adapted | Dynamic network policies based on risk; application needs that are automatically adapted |

- Support for ingress and egress policies align with the INITIAL stage.
> NOTE:	The support for ingress and egress policies is provided by the O-RAN Specifications. But the decision to provision the rules and policies is left to the operator.

### Applications and Workloads

#### Application Access

##### O-RAN ZTA Security Requirements for Application Access

| CISA ZTMM Function | Traditional | Initial | Advanced | Optimal |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Application Access | Access based on static attributes and local authorization | Begins to implement authorizing access capabilities to applications that incorporate contextual information (e.g., identity, device compliance, and/or other attributes) per request with expiration. | Automates application access decisions with expanded contextual information and enforced expiration conditions that adhere to least privilege principles. | Continuously authorizes application access, incorporating real-time risk analytics and factors such as behaviour or usage patterns. |

##### Guidance for Gap Analysis

- Access authorization capabilities utilize contextual information such as identity, device compliance, and other attributes to make decisions on various requests for accessing application assets.
- Authorization is granted per request with expiration.

#### Application Threat Protections

##### O-RAN ZTA Security Requirements for Application Threat Protections

| CISA ZTMM Function | Traditional | Initial | Advanced | Optimal |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Application Threat Protections | Threat protections have minimal integration with application workflows, applying general-purpose protections for known threats. | Integrates threat protections into mission-critical application workflows, applying protections against known threats and addressing some application-specific threats. | Integrates threat protections into all application workflows, safeguarding against certain application-specific and targeted threats. | Integrates advanced threat protections into all application workflows, providing real-time visibility and content-aware protections against sophisticated attacks tailored to applications. |

- Threat protection is integrated into mission-critical application workflows.
- Threat protections safeguard applications against known threats and address some application-specific threats.

#### Accessible Applications

##### O-RAN ZTA Security Requirements for Application Accessibility

| CISA ZTMM Function | Traditional | Initial | Advanced | Optimal |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Accessible Applications | Some mission-critical applications are made available exclusively over private networks and protected public network connections (e.g., VPN), with monitoring. | Some of the applicable mission-critical applications are made accessible over open public networks to authorized users with specific needs via brokered connections. | Most of the applicable mission-critical applications are made available over open public network connections to authorized users as needed. | All applicable applications are made available over open public networks to authorized users and devices, where appropriate, as needed. |

- Applicable mission-critical applications are available over open public network connections to authorized users as needed.

#### Secure Application Development and Deployment Workflow

##### O-RAN ZTA Security Requirements for Secure Application Development

| CISA ZTMM Function | Traditional | Initial | Advanced | Optimal |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Secure Application Development and Deployment Workflow | There are ad hoc development, testing, and production environments with non-robust code deployment mechanisms. | Infrastructure is provided for development, testing, and production environments (including automation) with formal code deployment mechanisms through CI/CD pipelines and requisite access controls supporting least privilege principles. | Distinct and coordinated teams for development, security, and operations are used, while developer access to the production environment for code deployment is removed. | Immutable workloads are leveraged where feasible, only allowing changes to take effect through redeployment. Administrator access to deployment environments is removed in favor of automated processes for code deployment. |

- Infrastructure for development, testing, and production environments (including automation).
- Formal code deployment mechanisms through CI/CD pipelines.
- Access controls support least privilege principles.

#### Application Security Testing

##### O-RAN ZTA Security Requirements for Application Security Testing

| CISA ZTMM Function | Traditional | Initial | Advanced | Optimal |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Application Security Testing | Application security testing is conducted prior to deployment, primarily through manual testing methods. | Static and dynamic testing methods, including manual expert analysis, are employed for security testing before application deployment. | Application security testing is seamlessly integrated into the application development and deployment process, incorporating periodic dynamic testing methods. | Application security testing is integrated across the software development lifecycle within the enterprise, with routine automated testing of deployed applications. |

- Utilization of static and dynamic testing methods for security testing.
- Performance of security testing including manual expert analysis before application deployment.

### Data

#### Data Inventory Management

##### O-RAN ZTA Security Requirements for Data Inventory Management

| CISA ZTMM Function | Traditional | Initial | Advanced | Optimal |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Data Inventory Management | Manually identifies and inventories some O-RAN data (e.g., mission critical data). | Automate data inventory processes for both on-premises and in cloud environments, covering most O-RAN data, and begins to incorporate protections against data loss. | Automate data inventory and tracking all applicable data, with data loss prevention strategies based upon static attributes and/or labels. | Continuously inventories all applicable data and employs robust data loss prevention strategies that dynamically block suspected data exfiltration. |

- Automated data inventory processes for both on-premises and in cloud environments, which covers most system data.
- Protections against data loss are beginning to be incorporated.

#### Data Categorization

##### O-RAN ZTA Security Requirements for Data Categorization

| CISA ZTMM Function | Traditional | Initial | Advanced | Optimal |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Data Categorization | Limited and ad hoc data categorization capabilities. | Implement a data categorization strategy with defined labels and manual enforcement mechanisms. | Automate some data categorization and labeling processes in a consistent, tiered, targeted manner with simple, structured formats and regular review. | Automate data categorization and labeling enterprise-wide with robust techniques; granular, structured formats; and mechanisms to address all data types. |

- A data categorization strategy with defined labels and manual enforcement mechanisms.

#### Data Availability

##### O-RAN ZTA Security Requirements for Data Availability

| CISA ZTMM Function | Traditional | Initial | Advanced | Optimal |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Data Availability | Data stored on-premises with some off-site backups. | Data stored in redundant mode (e.g., cloud) and maintained in off-site backups for on premises data. | Data stores in redundant mode with access to historical data. | Dynamically Optimized data availability, including historical data, as per user and entity need. |

- Data stored in redundant mode (e.g., cloud).
- Data maintained in off-site backups for on premises data.

#### Data Access

##### O-RAN ZTA Security Requirements for Data Access

| CISA ZTMM Function | Traditional | Initial | Advanced | Optimal |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Data Access | Users and entities access to data is governed through static access control | Automated data access controls that incorporate elements of least privileges are deployed. | Automated data access controls are time-limited and consider contextual attributes such as identity, device risk, application, and data category. | Automated dynamic just-in-time and just-enough data access controls are implemented with continuous review of permissions. |

- Automated data access control.
- Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control.

#### Data Encryption

##### O-RAN ZTA Security Requirements for Data Encryption

| CISA ZTMM Function | Traditional | Initial | Advanced | Optimal |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Data encryption | Basic encryption is applied to minimal data (both at rest and in transit), utilizing manual or ad hoc processes for managing and securing encryption keys. | All data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest are encrypted. Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | All data at rest and in transit across the O-RAN system are encrypted to the maximum extent possible, cryptographic agility is being incorporated, and encryption keys are protected. | Data in use is encrypted where appropriate, least privilege principles for secure key management system-wide are enforced, and encryption is applied using up-to-date standards and cryptographic agility to the extent possible. |

- Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.
- Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized.

### Cross-Cutting Capabilities

#### High level maturity evolution for Cross-Cutting Capabilities

##### Visibility and Analytics

| CISA ZTMM Function | Traditional | Initial | Advanced | Optimal |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Visibility and Analytics | Manually collecting limited logs with low fidelity and minimal analysis. | Begins the automation of the collection and analysis of logs and events for mission critical functions and regularly assesses processes for gaps in visibility. | Expands the automated collection of logs and events (including virtual environments) for centralized analysis that correlates across multiple sources. | Maintains comprehensive visibility enterprise-wide via centralized dynamic monitoring and advanced analysis of logs and events. |

- The automation of the collection and analysis of logs and events for mission-critical functions is initiated.
- Processes are regularly assessed for gaps in visibility.

##### Automation and Orchestration

| CISA ZTMM Function | Traditional | Initial | Advanced | Optimal |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Automation and Orchestration | Relies on static and manual processes to orchestrate operations and response activities with limited automation. | Begins automating orchestration and response activities in support of critical mission functions. | Automates orchestration and response activities leveraging contextual information from multiple sources to inform decisions. | Orchestration and response activities dynamically respond to changing requirements and environmental changes. |

- The automation of orchestration and response activities in support of critical mission functions is initiated.

#### Identity Cross-Cutting Capabilities

Collecting and analyzing user and entity logs is crucial for maintaining network security and identifying potential threats. User and entity behaviour analytics (UEBA) leverages this log data to detect abnormal behaviours, which are often indicative of security incidents. By correlating information across multiple log sources, UEBA can identify unusual patterns that single or limited log sources might miss. This comprehensive analysis is essential because cyber actors frequently attempt to blend in with regular network activities, making it challenging to spot their malicious actions. Through thorough log collection and analysis, organizations can enhance their ability to detect, investigate, and respond to security threats effectively [i.22].

| CISA ZTMM Function | Traditional | Initial | Advanced | Optimal |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | Collects user and entity activity logs, especially for privileged credentials, and performs some routine manual analysis. | Collects user and entity activity logs and performs routine manual analysis and some automated analysis, with limited correlation between log types. | Performs automated analysis across some user and entity activity log types and augments collection to address gaps in visibility. | Maintains comprehensive visibility and situational awareness across enterprise by performing automated analysis over user activity log types, including behaviour-based analytics. |

- Collecting user and entity activity logs.
- Performing Routine Analysis:
- Conduct regular manual analysis of the logs.
- Implement some automated analysis, with limited correlation between different log types.

| CISA ZTMM Function | Traditional | Initial | Advanced | Optimal |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Manually orchestrates (onboards, offboards, and disables) self-managed identities (users and entities), with little integration, and performs regular review. | Manually orchestrates privileged and external identities and automates orchestration of non-privileged users and of self-managed entities. | Manually orchestrates privileged user identities and automates orchestration of all identities with integration across all environments. | Automates orchestration of all identities with full integration across all environments based on behaviours, enrollments, and deployment needs. |

- Manually orchestrates privileged and external identities.
- Automates orchestration of non-privileged users.
- Automates orchestration of self-managed entities.

#### Devices Cross-Cutting Capabilities

| CISA ZTMM Function | Traditional | Initial | Advanced | Optimal |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | Uses a physically labeled inventory and limited software monitoring to review devices on a regular basis with some manual analysis. | Uses digital identifiers alongside a manual inventory and endpoint monitoring of devices when available. Some devices and virtual assets are under automated analysis (e.g., software-based scanning) for anomaly detection based on risk. | Automates both inventory collection and anomaly detection to detect unauthorized devices. | Automates status collection of all network-connected devices and virtual assets while correlating with identities, conducting endpoint monitoring, and performing anomaly detection to inform resource access. Tracks patterns of provisioning and/or de-provisioning of virtual assets for anomalies. |

- Digital Identifiers: Use digital identifiers alongside a manual inventory and endpoint monitoring of devices when available.
- Automated Analysis: Ensure some devices and virtual assets are under automated analysis (e.g., software-based scanning) for anomaly detection based on risk.

| CISA ZTMM Function | Traditional | Initial | Advanced | Optimal |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Manually provisions, configures, and/or registers devices within the enterprise. | Begins to use tools and scripts to automate the process of provisioning, configuration, registration, and/or deprovisioning for devices and virtual assets. | Monitoring and enforcement mechanisms are implemented to identify and manually disconnect or isolate non-compliant devices and virtual assets. | Fully automated processes are in place for provisioning, registering, monitoring, isolating, remediating, and deprovisioning devices and virtual assets. |

- Utilization of monitoring and enforcement mechanisms to identify and manually disconnect or isolate non-compliant devices and virtual assets.

#### Networks Cross-Cutting Capabilities

| CISA ZTMM Function | Traditional | Initial | Advanced | Optimal |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | Incorporates limited boundary-focused network monitoring capabilities with minimal analysis to start developing centralized situational awareness. | Employs network monitoring capabilities based on known indicators of Compromise (including network enumeration) to develop situational awareness in each environment and begins to correlate telemetry across traffic types and environments for analysis and threat hunting activities. | Deploys anomaly-based network detection capabilities to develop situational awareness across all environments, begins to correlate telemetry from multiple sources for analysis, and incorporates automated processes for robust threat hunting activities. | Maintains visibility into communication across all agency networks and environments while enabling enterprise-wide situational awareness and advanced monitoring capabilities that automate telemetry correlation across all detection sources. |

- Utilize network monitoring capabilities based on known indicators of compromise, including network enumeration, to develop situational awareness in each environment.
- Commence correlating telemetry across traffic types and environments to facilitate analysis and threat hunting activities.

| CISA ZTMM Function | Traditional | Initial | Advanced | Optimal |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Utilizes manual processes to manage the configuration and resource lifecycle for networks and environments with periodic integration of policy requirements and situational awareness. | Begins employing automated methods to manage the configuration and resource lifecycle for some networks or environments and ensures that all resources have a defined lifetime based on policies and telemetry. | Uses automated change management methods (e.g., CI/CD) to manage the configuration and resource lifecycle for all networks and environments, responding to and enforcing policies and protections against perceived risks. | Networks and environments are defined using infrastructure-as-code managed by automated change management methods, including automated initiation and expiration to align with changing needs. |

- Initiate the use of automated methods to manage the configuration and lifecycle of resources within specific networks or environments.
- Ensure that all resources have a defined lifetime determined by policies and telemetry data.

#### Applications & Workloads Capabilities

| CISA ZTMM Function | Traditional | Initial | Advanced | Optimal |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | Performs some performance and security monitoring of mission critical applications with limited aggregation and analytics. | Begins to automate application profile and security monitoring for improved log collection, aggregation, and analytics. | Automates profile and security monitoring for most applications with heuristics to identify application-specific and enterprise-wide trends and refines processes over time to address gaps in visibility | Performs continuous and dynamic monitoring across all applications to maintain enterprise-wide comprehensive visibility. |

- Initiate the automation of application profile and security monitoring processes for improved log collection, aggregation, and analytics.

| CISA ZTMM Function | Traditional | Initial | Advanced | Optimal |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Manually establishes static application hosting location and access at provisioning with limited maintenance and review. | Periodically modifies application configurations (including location and access) to meet relevant security and performance goals. | Automates application configurations to respond to operational and environmental changes. | Automates application configurations to continuously optimize for security and performance. |

- Periodically modifies application configurations, including location and access parameters, to align with pertinent security and performance objectives.

#### Data Cross-Cutting Capabilities

| CISA ZTMM Function | Traditional | Initial | Advanced | Optimal |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | Limited visibility into data including location, access, and usage, with analysis consisting primarily of manual processes. | Obtains visibility based on data inventory management, categorization, encryption, and access attempts, with some automated analysis and correlation. | Maintains data visibility in a more comprehensive, enterprise-wide manner with automated analysis and correlation and begins to employ predictive analytics. | Obtains visibility across the full data lifecycle with robust analytics, including predictive analytics, that support comprehensive views of the data and continuous security posture assessment. |

- Utilizes data inventory management, data categorization, data encryption, and access attempts information with some automated analysis and correlation to obtain visibility.

| CISA ZTMM Function | Traditional | Initial | Advanced | Optimal |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Implements data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) through manual, and potentially ad hoc, processes. | Utilizes some automated processes to implement data lifecycle and security policies. | Automates orchestration and response activities that leverage contextual information from multiple sources to inform decisions. | Orchestration and response activities dynamically respond to changing requirements and environmental changes. |

- Data lifecycle and security policies are automated.

# Alignment to Target ZTA Requirements

## Current O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls

Table 7.2-1 is a snapshot of the interface security controls enforcing authenticity, confidentiality, integrity, authorization, data origination, and replay prevention. The protocols listed in Table 7.2-1 are mandatory for the vendor to support (unless where noted) and optional for the operator to use, as regional regulatory requirements may differ. The exceptions are 802.1X and MACsec which are optional for the vendor to support as well as optional for the operator to use. Detailed requirements can be found in [i.2] and [i.3].

| Security Control | Non-Fronthaul | Open Fronthaul |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Security Control | A1 | O1 | O2 | E2 | Y1 | R1 | C-plane | U-plane | S-plane | M-plane |
| Authenticity | mTLS | IPsec | 802.1X1 PNAC | mTLS/SSH/802.1X1 PNAC |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Confidentiality | TLS | IPsec | MACsec (optional) | PDCP2, MACsec (optional) | TLS/SSH |  |  |  |  |  |
| Integrity | TLS | IPsec | MACsec (optional) | PDCP2 MACsec (optional) | TLS/SSH |  |  |  |  |  |
| Authorization | OAuth | NACM |  | 802.1X PNAC | NACM/802.1X PNAC |  |  |  |  |  |
| Data Origination | mTLS | IPsec |  | PDCP2 | TLS/SSH |  |  |  |  |  |
| Replay Prevention | TLS | IPsec |  | PDCP2 | TLS/SSH |  |  |  |  |  |

> NOTE 1:	802.1X port-based network access control (PNAC) provides authentication of the device plugging into a network port and controls access to send/receive network traffic. 802.1X PNAC [i.16] does not provide authenticity of the data flowing across the C-plane, U-plane, S-plane, and M-plane interfaces between the O-DU and O-RU.
> NOTE 2:	3GPP Access Stratum (AS) Control Plane and User Plane messages that are transported via the Open Fronthaul U-Plane (LLS-UP) are confidentiality and integrity protected by the Packet Data Convergence Protocol (PDCP) [i.32]. PDCP security controls remain in place when the message traverses the Open Fronthaul U-Plane. PDCP requirements are specified by the 3GPP in TS 33.501 [i.17]. PDCP does not provide confidentiality and integrity protection for plain text messages flowing across the U-plane interface between the O-DU and O-RU.
The controls still under development are authorization for the E2 interface as well as confidentiality, integrity, data origination and replay prevention on the C-, U-, and S-plane. Authorization for the E2 interface is being developed in collaboration with the Near-Real Time RIC and E2 interface work group. Confidentiality and integrity protection on the Open Fronthaul C- and U-Planes and authenticity protection on the Open Fronthaul S-Plane are being developed in collaboration with the Open Fronthaul and Transport working groups.

Table 7.2-2 is an overview of the mandatory O-RAN transversal requirements that support ZT tenets such as security posture, data collection, and monitoring.

| Category | Mandatory Requirements |
| --- | --- |
| Application Lifecycle Management | Application signing by vendor Signature validation by SMO Secure deletion of sensitive data Secure decommissioning of applications |
| Network Protocols and Services | Provider documentation of all required network protocols/services Default disablement of unused network protocols/services |
| Robust Protocol Implementation | Handle unexpected inputs without functional compromise |
| Robustness of OS and Applications | Known vulnerabilities in the OS and applications be documented by their providers |
| Password based Authentication | Mitigate risks from password authentication attacks where password authentication is implemented |
| Software Supply Chain Security | Vendor signed, NTIA compliant SBOM with every O-RAN software delivery. |
| Security Log Management | Identification of security events to log  Collection of security logs by all O-RAN elements Least privileged access controls on security logs Logging of anomalous events Confidentiality and integrity protection of log data at rest and in transit Rotation of logs to prevent data loss Use of micro-perimeters to protect logs Time stamping of all logged events Inclusion of identity of O-RAN element generating event |
| Certificate Management Framework | Support of CMPv2 |
| API Security | Support of OWASP API Security Project  Support of certificate-based authentication using mTLS 1.2+ Confidentiality and integrity protection of data in transit with TLS 1.2+ Least privileged authorization using OAuth 2.0 Input validation |
| Trust Anchor Provisioning | Pre-provisioning of certificates that chain back to a vendor or operator CA in PNFs |
| AI/ML Security | Model integrity, confidentiality, authentication, and authorization A1 authentication and authorization Secure data sourcing, sanitization, and transformation Data poisoning prevention Adversarial training Differential privacy Model splitting Feature selection training |

## Gap Analysis

### Gap Analysis Methodology

#### Gap Analysis Workflow

The gap analysis guidelines for addressing the Initial stage for each pillar in the CISA ZTMM within O-RAN were derived in clause 6.2. Figure 7.3-1 outlines the high-level workflow for performing the gap analysis. The workflow is divided into two paths: one for the defined assets described in clause 5.2 [i.4] and the other for new assets identified during the ZTA WI study as described in clause 5.3.

Asset Mapping: First, list the various types of assets for each O-RAN element, and then map the assets to the corresponding CISA ZTMM Pillar.

Comparison: Compare the current security requirements and controls of the assets to the corresponding ZT pillar’s INITIAL Maturity Level security guidelines, as derived in clause 6.2.

Gap Identification: Document the gap analysis and forward the identified gaps to relevant work items (e.g., Near-RT RIC, Open Fronthaul, O-Cloud, SMO).

Work Item Analysis: This step involves consultation with the relevant WG11 Work Item. Each work item performs threat analysis for the gaps which were identified in the previous step, determines new security requirements and controls to achieve the INITIAL ZTA Maturity Level and updates the Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment Technical Report [i.4] and Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [i.2].

#### Gap Analysis Conclusions

At the end of the work item analysis step, the relevant WG11 work items should arrive at a decision regarding each identified gap forwarded from the ZTA work item. There are three possible conclusions with subsequent steps, which are detailed in Table 7.3.1-1. The first column presents the conclusion, the second column explains the circumstances under which each conclusion can be derived, and the third column outlines the corresponding next steps for each conclusion.

| Conclusion | Conditions | Subsequent Steps |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Addressed | This conclusion applies when the relevant work item resolves the identified gap by adding or identifying requirement(s) in the Security Requirements and Controls Specifications. | Update the relevant gap analysis table in the ZTA TR as following: Update the “comments” column with "Gap resolved as requirements were identified after initial analysis,” or “Gap resolved by new requirements added after initial analysis.” Update the "Existing Requirements Mapped to CISA Stage" column with the relevant new requirements numbers. |
| Out of scope for O-RAN | This conclusion applies when addressing the identified gap is necessary to maintain a Zero Trust Architecture (ZTA); however, specifying the requirements and controls to address this gap does not fall within the scope of the O-RAN ALLIANCE. Out of scope requirements and controls are those that specify conditions on equipment, functions, or activities that are outside of O-RAN's purview and could fall under operators' responsibilities. | Update the “comments” column in the relevant gap analysis table in the ZTA TR with “Out of scope for O-RAN” and a short explanation. Update the recommendation clause and highlight this. |
| No action is needed | This conclusion applies when the relevant work item decides that no action will be taken to address the identified gap for a justified reason. This decision may be based on various factors, such as if addressing the identified gap is very costly compared to the risk associated with it. | Update the comments column in the relevant table in the gap analysis clause with “No action is needed” and the justified reason. Update the Recommendation clause and highlight this. |

#### Mapping of O-RAN Assets to CISA ZTMM Pillars

In the gap analysis process, each asset is mapped to a pillar or a set of pillars in CISA ZTMM. For reference, asset categories are defined in clause 5.1. Table 7.3.1-2 illustrates this mapping process.

| CISA ZTMM Pillar | O-RAN Asset Categories and Other O-RAN Elements |
| --- | --- |
| Identity Pillar | Person entities: users Non-person entities: An O-RAN asset requesting access to another O-RAN asset should be considered as a non-person entity and should be mapped to the Identity pillar |
| Devices Pillar | Hardware infrastructure Operating system and firmware infrastructure Virtualization layer infrastructure |
| Networks Pillar | Interfaces, including protocol stacks APIs |
| Applications Pillar | Interfaces' functions (terminations)  Services APIs |
| Data Pillar | Data |

> NOTE: 	APIs, as defined by O-RAN, should be tested against both CISA’s Networks Pillar and Applications Pillar.

### Transversal Functions Gap Analysis

#### Transversal Functions Data Pillar Analysis

##### Transversal Functions Data Pillar Assets

The applicable assets defined in the WG11 O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment [i.4] are as follows:

All data assets

##### Transversal Functions Data Pillar Gap Analysis

| Data ZT Function | Guidance to reach initial stage | Asset(s) | Existing Requirements mapped to CISA stage | Assessed Gap to Initial CISA Stage | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Data inventory management | a) Automated data inventory processes for most data b) Protections against data loss | Transversal Functions Data Assets |  |  |  |
| Data inventory management | a) Automated data inventory processes for most data b) Protections against data loss | All data assets | None | Gap | Lack of specific requirements for data discovery and classification, which are essential for automating data inventory processes. Limited focus on data loss prevention, which is a critical aspect of Data Inventory Management. No explicit requirements for data inventory management tools or processes, which are necessary for automating data inventory processes and incorporating protections against data loss. |
| Data categorization | a) Data categorization strategy with defined labels and manual enforcement mechanisms. | Transversal Functions Data Assets |  |  |  |
| Data categorization | a) Data categorization strategy with defined labels and manual enforcement mechanisms. | All data assets | None | Gap | Lack of specific requirements and controls on the implementation of a data categorization strategy with defined labels. |
| Data availability | a) some data available from redundant, highly available data stores (e.g., cloud) and availability of off-site backups for on-premises data. | Transversal Functions Data Assets |  |  |  |
| Data availability | a) some data available from redundant, highly available data stores (e.g., cloud) and availability of off-site backups for on-premises data. | All data assets | REQ-SEC-SLM-SST-6 | Partial gap | Lack of specific requirements for redundant data stores Lack of specific requirements for off-site backups Lack of specific controls for data recovery and continuity |

#### Transversal Functions Identity Pillar

##### Transversal Functions Identity Pillar Assets

The applicable assets defined in the WG11 O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment [i.4] are as follows:

- ASSET-C-02: Near-RT RIC software.
- ASSET-C-08: O-Cloud (Covers DMS and IMS and their services)
- ASSET-C-09: xApps.
- ASSET-C-10: rApps.
- ASSET-C-12: ML components deploying machine learning such as: ML training and interference hosts, ML applications (xApps, rApps).
- ASSET-C-12a: PNF NF equipment
- ASSET-C-29: AAL software including software, libraries, drivers
- ASSET-C-30: The hardware accelerator device firmware
- ASSET-C-32: O-RU Host
- ASSET-C-34: DU-Host (Including software).
- ASSET-C-35: DU-Tenant (Including software).
- ASSET-C-36: CU-Host (Including software).
- ASSET-C-37: CU-Tenant (Including software).

##### Transversal Functions Identity Pillar Gap Analysis

| Identity ZT Function | Guidance to reach initial stage | Asset(s) | Existing Requirements mapped to CISA stage | Assessed Gap to Initial CISA Stage | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Identity stores | Combination of self-managed identity stores and hosted identity store(s) (e.g., cloud or other agency) with minimal integration between the store(s) (e.g., Single Sign- on.). | Transversal Functions Identity Assets |  |  |  |
| Identity stores | Combination of self-managed identity stores and hosted identity store(s) (e.g., cloud or other agency) with minimal integration between the store(s) (e.g., Single Sign- on.). | ASSET-C-02 ASSET-C-09 ASSET-C-10 ASSET-C-12 ASSET-C-12a ASSET-C-29 ASSET-C-30 ASSET-C-32 ASSET-C-34 ASSET-C-35 ASSET-C-36 ASSET-C-37 | SEC-CTL-PASS-3 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-8 | Partial gap | No requirements specific to identity stores |
| Identity stores | Combination of self-managed identity stores and hosted identity store(s) (e.g., cloud or other agency) with minimal integration between the store(s) (e.g., Single Sign- on.). | ASSET-C-08 | REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-4 | Partial gap | No requirements specific to identity stores |
| Risk Assessments | determines identity risk using manual methods and static rules to support visibility. | Transversal Functions Identity Assets |  |  |  |
| Risk Assessments | determines identity risk using manual methods and static rules to support visibility. | All component assets | REQ-SEC-SLM-DDA-1 REQ-SEC-CMF-ANYNF-2 REQ-SEC-CMF-ANYNF-3 REQ-SEC-CMF-ANYNF-8 REQ-SEC-CMF-ANYNF-9 | No gap | Possibly missing requirements, e.g. about implementing a policy and procedure that outlines the use of manual methods and static rules for determining identity risk, would be on the operator |

#### Transversal Functions Networks Pillar

##### Transversal Functions Networks Pillar Assets

The applicable assets and components defined in the WG11 O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment [i.4]:

- Near-RT RIC APIs
- ZT-OCLOUD-S-X1: O2ims services
- ZT-OCLOUD-S-X2: O2dms services
- ASSET-C-08: O-Cloud (Covers DMS and IMS and their services)
- ASSET-C-09: xApps.
- ASSET-C-10: rApps.
- ASSET-C-14: A1 interface, including protocol stack.
- ASSET-C-16: R1 interface, including protocol stack.
- ASSET-C-22: O1, including protocol stack
- ASSET-C-24: OFH M-Plane, including protocol stack
- ASSET-C-25: OFH CUS-Plane, including protocol stack
- ASSET-C-40: E2 interface, including protocol stack
- ASSET-C-42: Y1 interface, including protocol stack

##### Transversal Functions Networks Pillar Gap Analysis

| Networks ZT Function | Guidance to reach initial stage | Asset(s) | Existing Requirements mapped to CISA stage | Assessed Gap to Initial CISA Stage | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Network Segmentation | begins to deploy network architecture with the isolation of critical workloads, constraining connectivity to least function principles, and a transition toward service-specific interconnections. | Transversal Functions Networks Assets |  |  |  |
| Network Segmentation | begins to deploy network architecture with the isolation of critical workloads, constraining connectivity to least function principles, and a transition toward service-specific interconnections. | ZT-OCLOUD-S-X1: O2ims services ZT-OCLOUD-S-X2: O2dms services ASSET-C-08 | REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-ISO-3 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-ISO-4 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-ISO-5 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-ISO-6 | Partial gap | Network segmentation not referred specifically |
| Network Segmentation | begins to deploy network architecture with the isolation of critical workloads, constraining connectivity to least function principles, and a transition toward service-specific interconnections. | Near-RT RIC APIs ASSET-C-09 ASSET-C-10 ASSET-C-14 ASSET-C-16 ASSET-C-22 ASSET-C-24 ASSET-C-25 ASSET-C-40 ASSET-C-42 | None | Gap | Lack of Explicit Network Segmentation Policies Lack of Service-Specific Interconnections Lack of Continuous Monitoring and Enforcement |
| Network Traffic Management | a) establishes application profiles with distinct traffic management features and begins to map all applications to these profiles.  b) expands application of static rules to all applications and performs periodic manual audits of application profile assessments. | Transversal Functions Networks Assets |  |  |  |
| Network Traffic Management | a) establishes application profiles with distinct traffic management features and begins to map all applications to these profiles.  b) expands application of static rules to all applications and performs periodic manual audits of application profile assessments. | ASSET-C-08 ASSET-C-09 ASSET-C-10 | REQ-SEC-LCM-SD-1 REQ-SEC-LCM-SD-3 REQ-SEC-SLM-HYP-EVT-1 | Partial gap | Network traffic management not referred specifically |
| Network Traffic Management | a) establishes application profiles with distinct traffic management features and begins to map all applications to these profiles.  b) expands application of static rules to all applications and performs periodic manual audits of application profile assessments. | Near-RT RIC APIs ASSET-C-14 ASSET-C-16 ASSET-C-22 ASSET-C-24 ASSET-C-25 ASSET-C-40 ASSET-C-42 | None | Gap | Lack of explicitly covering the creation of comprehensive application profiles with distinct traffic management features.  Lack of explicitly requiring mapping all applications to the defined profiles. |
| Network Resilience | begins to configure network capabilities to manage availability demands for additional applications and expand resilience mechanisms for workloads not deemed mission critical. | Transversal Functions Networks Assets |  |  |  |
| Network Resilience | begins to configure network capabilities to manage availability demands for additional applications and expand resilience mechanisms for workloads not deemed mission critical. | All assets | REQ-SEC-DOS-1 REQ-SEC-SYS-1 REQ-SEC-TRAN-1 | No gap |  |

#### Transversal Functions Devices Pillar

##### Transversal Functions Devices Pillar Assets

The applicable assets and components defined in the WG11 O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment [i.4]:

- ASSET-C-12a: PNF NF equipment
- ZT-OCLOUD-I-X1: O-Cloud hardware

##### Transversal Functions Devices Pillar Gap Analysis

| Devices ZT Function | Guidance to reach initial stage | Asset(s) | Existing Requirements Mapped to CISA Stage | Assessed Gap to Initial CISA Stage | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Policy Enforcement and Compliance Monitoring | Basic Device characteristics visibility. Basic policy enforcement mechanism for managing software configurations or vulnerabilities | Transversal Functions Devices Assets |  |  |  |
| Policy Enforcement and Compliance Monitoring | Basic Device characteristics visibility. Basic policy enforcement mechanism for managing software configurations or vulnerabilities | ASSET-C-12a ZT-OCLOUD-I-X1 | REQ-SEC-AAL-4 SEC-CTL-AAL-2 REQ-SEC-TAP-5 REQ-SEC-SLM-NET-EVT-1 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-1 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-3 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-5 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-6 | No gap |  |
| Asset & Supply Chain Risk Management) | tracks all physical and some virtual assets and manages supply chain risks by establishing policies and control baselines according to federal recommendations using a robust framework, (e.g., NIST SCRM.) | Transversal Functions Devices Assets |  |  |  |
| Asset & Supply Chain Risk Management) | tracks all physical and some virtual assets and manages supply chain risks by establishing policies and control baselines according to federal recommendations using a robust framework, (e.g., NIST SCRM.) | ASSET-C-12a ZT-OCLOUD-I-X1 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-1 REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-2 REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-3 REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-4 SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-1 SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-1A REQ-SEC-CMF-PNF-1 REQ-SEC-CMF-PNF-2 REQ-SBOM-001 REQ-SBOM-002 REQ-SBOM-007 | Partial gap | Lack of explicit requirements for tracking physical assets. Limited scope of supply chain risk management, focusing primarily on certificate management and software package protection. |

### xApp and Near-RT RIC Gap Analysis

#### xApp and Near-RT RIC Data Pillar Analysis

##### xApp Data Pillar Assets

The applicable assets defined in the WG11 O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment [i.4] are as follows:

- ASSET-D-15: Application software package
- ASSET-D-23: Patches for vulnerable SW components
- ASSET-D-29: Security event log files.
- ASSET-D-31: Security telemetry from the NFV system for detecting threats and anomalies.
- Cryptographic Data:
- ASSET-D-16: X.509 certificates
- ASSET-D-17: Private keys
- ASSET-D-32: Cryptographic keys used during secure boot
- AI/ML Data:
- ASSET-D-25: Training or test data
- ASSET-D-26: The trained ML model
- ASSET-D-27: The ML prediction results built into the model
- ASSET-D-28: The behavior of the ML system

##### Near-RT RIC Data Pillar Assets

The applicable assets and components defined in the WG11 O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment [i.4] and the WG3 Near-RT RIC Architecture [i.23] are as follows:

- ASSET-D-39: xApp ID
- ASSET-D-10: Database holding data from xApp applications and E2 Node
- ASSET-D-16: X.509 certificates
- ASSET-D-17: Private Keys
- ASSET-D-23: Patches for vulnerable SW components.
- ASSET-D-25: Training or test data
- ASSET-D-26: The trained ML model
- ASSET-D-27: The ML prediction results built into the model
- ASSET-D-28: The behavior of the ML system
- ASSET-D-29: Security event log files.
- ASSET-D-31: Security telemetry from the NFV system for detecting threats and anomalies
- ASSET-D-32: Cryptographic keys used during secure boot
- ASSET-D-07: A1 policies that are provided to the near-RT RIC over the A1 interface
- ASSET-D-08: A1 Enrichment Information
- ASSET-D-30: O-RAN specific several UE IDs
- ASSET-D-20: Credentials (Administrators)

##### Data Pillar Transversal Functions

The following Data Pillar functions are considered transversal and are covered in 7.3.2:

- Data inventory management
- Data categorization
- Data availability

##### xApp and Near-RT RIC Data Pillar Gap Analysis

| Data ZT Function | Guidance to reach initial stage | Asset(s) | Existing Requirements mapped to CISA stage | Assessed Gap to Initial CISA Stage | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | xApp Data Assets |  |  |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-15 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-11 | No gap |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-23 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-11 SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-1 | No gap |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-16 | None | Gap | No action needed. X.509 certs are publicly available |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-17 | REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-1 REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-2 | No gap | Gap resolved by new requirements added after initial analysis |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-32 | REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-1 REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-2 | No gap | Gap resolved by new requirements added after initial analysis |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-25 (included in app package) | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-11 SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-1 | No gap |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-25 (excluded from app package) | REQ-SEC-AIML-6 REQ-SEC-AIML-7 | No gap | Gap resolved by new requirements added after initial analysis |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-26 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-11 SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-1 | No gap | Initial stage if we consider trained ML model as part of app package |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-27 | REQ-SEC-AIML-1 REQ-SEC-AIML-2 | No gap | Gap resolved by new requirements added after initial analysis |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-28 | REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-1 REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-2 | No gap | Gap resolved by new requirements added after initial analysis |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-29 | REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-6 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-7 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESM-1 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESM-3 REQ-SEC-TESR-1 REQ-SEC-TESR-7 REQ-SEC-TESR-9 REQ-SEC-TESR-11 REQ-SEC-SLM-SST-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-STR-2 | No gap |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-31 | REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-6 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-7 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESM-1 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESM-3 REQ-SEC-TESR-1 REQ-SEC-TESR-7 REQ-SEC-TESR-9 REQ-SEC-TESR-11 REQ-SEC-SLM-SST-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-STR-2 | No gap |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | Near-RT RIC Data Assets |  |  |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-16 | None | Gap | No action needed. X.509 certs are publicly available |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-17 | REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-1 REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-2 | No gap | Gap resolved by new requirements added after initial analysis |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-23 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-11 SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-1 | No gap |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-25 (included in app package) | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-11 SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-1 | No gap |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-25 (excluded from app package) | REQ-SEC-AIML-6 REQ-SEC-AIML-7 | No gap | Gap resolved by new requirements added after initial analysis |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-26 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-11 SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-1 | No gap |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-27 | REQ-SEC-AIML-1 REQ-SEC-AIML-2 | No gap | Gap resolved by new requirements added after initial analysis |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-28 | REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-1 REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-2 | No gap | Gap resolved by new requirements added after initial analysis |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-29 | REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-6 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESM-3 REQ-SEC-SLM-TE-5 REQ-SEC-TESR-1 REQ-SEC-TESR-7 REQ-SEC-TESR-9 REQ-SEC-TESR-11 | No gap |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-31 | REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-6 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESM-3 REQ-SEC-SLM-TE-5 REQ-SEC-TESR-1 REQ-SEC-TESR-7 REQ-SEC-TESR-9 REQ-SEC-TESR-11 | No gap |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-32 | REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-1 REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-2 | No gap | Gap resolved by new requirements added after initial analysis |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-07 | REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-5 SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-4 | No gap |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-08 | REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-5 SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-5 | No gap |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-30 | REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-1 REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-2 | No gap | Gap resolved by new requirements added after initial analysis |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-39 | REQ-SEC-XAPP-3 | Partial gap | No action needed. xAppIDs are part of X.509 certs which are publicly available. |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-10 | REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-1 REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-2 SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-1 SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-3 | No gap |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-20 | REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-1 REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-2 | No gap | Gap resolved by new requirements added after initial analysis |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | xApp Data Assets |  |  |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-15 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-10 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-23 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-10 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-16 | REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-SS-1 REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-13 SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-2 SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-2A SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-4 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-17 | REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-SS-1 REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-13 SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-2 SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-2A SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-4 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-32 | REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-SS-1 REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-13 SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-2 SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-2A SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-4 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-25 (included in app package) | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-10 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-25 (excluded from app package) | REQ-SEC-AIML-5 REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-12 | No gap | Gap resolved by new requirements added after initial analysis |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-26 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-10 | No gap | If we consider trained ML model as part of app package |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-27 | REQ-SEC-AIML-3 REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-12 | No gap | Gap resolved by new requirements added after initial analysis |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-28 | REQ-SEC-AIML-5 REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-12 | No gap | Gap resolved by new requirements added after initial analysis |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-29 | REQ-SEC-SLM-TESM-2 REQ-SEC-SLM-TE-4 REQ-SEC-TESR-6 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-31 | REQ-SEC-SLM-TESM-2 REQ-SEC-SLM-TE-4 REQ-SEC-TESR-6 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | Near-RT RIC Data Assets |  |  |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-16 | REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-SS-1 REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-13 SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-2 SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-2A SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-4 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-17 | REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-SS-1 REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-13 SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-2 SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-2A SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-4 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-23 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-11 SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-1 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-25 (included in app package) | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-11 SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-1 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-25 (excluded in app package) | REQ-SEC-AIML-5 REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-12 | No gap | Gap resolved by new requirements added after initial analysis |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-26 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-11 SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-1 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-27 | REQ-SEC-AIML-3 REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-12 | No gap | Gap resolved by new requirements added after initial analysis |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-28 | REQ-SEC-AIML-5 REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-12 | No gap | Gap resolved by new requirements added after initial analysis |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-29 | REQ-SEC-SLM-TESM-2 REQ-SEC-SLM-TE-4 REQ-SEC-TESR-6 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-31 | REQ-SEC-SLM-TESM-2 REQ-SEC-SLM-TE-4 REQ-SEC-TESR-6 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-32 | SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-4 REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-12 | No gap | Gap resolved by new requirements added after initial analysis |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-07 | REQ-SEC-A1-1 SEC-CTL-A1-1 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-08 | REQ-SEC-A1-1 SEC-CTL-A1-1 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-30 | REQ-SEC-API-7 SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-6 REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-2A REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-12 | No gap | Gap resolved by new requirements added after initial analysis |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-39 | None | Gap | No action needed. xAppIDs are part of X.509 certs which are publicly available. |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-10 | SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-6 REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-2A | No gap | Gap resolved by new requirements added after initial analysis |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-20 | REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-12 | No gap | Gap resolved by new requirements added after initial analysis |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | a) Utilizes data inventory management, data categorization, data encryption, and access attempts information with some automated analysis and correlation to obtain visibility. | xApp Data Assets |  |  |  |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | a) Utilizes data inventory management, data categorization, data encryption, and access attempts information with some automated analysis and correlation to obtain visibility. | ASSET-D-15 ASSET-D-23 ASSET-D-16 ASSET-D-17 ASSET-D-32 ASSET-D-25 (included in app package) ASSET-D-25 (excluded from app package) ASSET-D-26 ASSET-D-27 ASSET-D-28 ASSET-D-29 ASSET-D-31 | REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-1 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-2 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-3 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-6 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-7 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-8 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-5 | Partial gap | This is a partial gap, as the listed requirements address logging for data encryption and access attempts information. However, there are no requirements for providing information for: Data inventory management Data categorization. Creating and providing the required information is within scope. However, the collection, analysis, and correlation of this information to achieve visibility are considered out of scope for O-RAN. As specified in [i.31], SIEM is not within the O-RAN Alliance's scope and is not defined by the O-RAN Alliance. |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | a) Utilizes data inventory management, data categorization, data encryption, and access attempts information with some automated analysis and correlation to obtain visibility. | Near-RT RIC Data Assets |  |  |  |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | a) Utilizes data inventory management, data categorization, data encryption, and access attempts information with some automated analysis and correlation to obtain visibility. | ASSET-D-16 ASSET-D-17 ASSET-D-23 ASSET-D-25 (included in app package) ASSET-D-25 (excluded from app package) ASSET-D-26 ASSET-D-27 ASSET-D-28 ASSET-D-29 ASSET-D-31 ASSET-D-32 ASSET-D-07 ASSET-D-08 ASSET-D-30 ASSET-D-39 ASSET-D-10 ASSET-D-20 | REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-1 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-2 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-3 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-6 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-7 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-8 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-5 | Partial gap | This is a partial gap, as the listed requirements address logging for data encryption and access attempts information. However, there are no requirements for providing information for: Data inventory management Data categorization. Creating and providing the required information is within scope. However, the collection, analysis, and correlation of this information to achieve visibility are considered out of scope for O-RAN. As specified in [i.31], SIEM is not within the O-RAN Alliance's scope and is not defined by the O-RAN Alliance. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | a) Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | xApp Data Assets |  |  |  |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | a) Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-15 ASSET-D-23 ASSET-D-16 ASSET-D-17 ASSET-D-32 ASSET-D-25 (included in app package) ASSET-D-25 (excluded from app package) ASSET-D-26 ASSET-D-27 ASSET-D-28 ASSET-D-29 ASSET-D-31 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | a) Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | Near-RT RIC Data Assets |  |  |  |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | a) Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-16 ASSET-D-17 ASSET-D-23 ASSET-D-25 (included in app package) ASSET-D-25 (excluded in app package) ASSET-D-26 ASSET-D-27 ASSET-D-28 ASSET-D-29 ASSET-D-31 ASSET-D-32 ASSET-D-07 ASSET-D-08 ASSET-D-30 ASSET-D-39 ASSET-D-10 ASSET-D-20 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |

#### xApp and Near-RT RIC Applications and Workloads Pillar Analysis

##### xApp Applications and Workloads Pillar Assets

The applicable assets and components defined in the WG11 O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment [i.4] and the WG3 Near-RT RIC Architecture [i.23] are as follows:

- ASSET-C-09: xApps. This includes xApps services.

##### Near-RT RIC Applications and Workloads Pillar Assets

The applicable assets and components defined in the WG11 O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment [i.4] and the WG3 Near-RT RIC Architecture [i.23] are as follows:

- ASSET-C-13: A1 termination. This includes A1 related services.
- ASSET-C-41: E2 functions. This includes E2 related services.
- ASSET-C-43: Y1 Functions. This includes Y1 related services.
- Other Services of the Near-RT RIC platform: this includes Management related services, SDL services, Enablement services, and AI/ML workflow services [i.23].

##### xApp and Near-RT RIC Application and Workloads Pillar Transversal Functions

- No transversal functions applicable

##### xApp and Near-RT RIC Application and Workloads Pillar Gap Analysis

| App/ Workloads ZT Function | Guidance to reach initial stage | Asset(s) | Existing Requirements mapped to CISA stage | Assessed Gap to Initial CISA Stage | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Application Access (Authorization) | a) Access authorization capabilities utilize contextual information such as identity, device compliance, and other attributes to make decisions on various requests for accessing application assets.  b) Authorization is granted per request with expiration. | xApp Applications and Workloads Assets |  |  |  |
| Application Access (Authorization) | a) Access authorization capabilities utilize contextual information such as identity, device compliance, and other attributes to make decisions on various requests for accessing application assets.  b) Authorization is granted per request with expiration. | ASSET-C-09 | REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-3 REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-4 SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-2 SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-3 | No gap |  |
| Application Access (Authorization) | a) Access authorization capabilities utilize contextual information such as identity, device compliance, and other attributes to make decisions on various requests for accessing application assets.  b) Authorization is granted per request with expiration. | Near-RT RIC Applications and Workloads Assets |  |  |  |
| Application Access (Authorization) | a) Access authorization capabilities utilize contextual information such as identity, device compliance, and other attributes to make decisions on various requests for accessing application assets.  b) Authorization is granted per request with expiration. | ASSET-C-13 ASSET-C-41 ASSET-C-43 | REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-3 REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-4 REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-5 SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-1 SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-2 SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-3 SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-4 SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-5 | No gap |  |
| Application Access (Authorization) | a) Access authorization capabilities utilize contextual information such as identity, device compliance, and other attributes to make decisions on various requests for accessing application assets.  b) Authorization is granted per request with expiration. | Other Services of the Near-RT RIC platform | REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-3 REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-4 SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-1 SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-3 | No gap |  |
| Application Threat Protections | a) Threat protections is integrated into mission-critical application workflows.  b) Threat protections safeguard applications against known threats and address some application-specific threats. | xApp Applications and Workloads Assets |  |  |  |
| Application Threat Protections | a) Threat protections is integrated into mission-critical application workflows.  b) Threat protections safeguard applications against known threats and address some application-specific threats. | ASSET-C-09 | REQ-SEC-ALM-SU-2  REQ-SEC-ALM-SU-3 | No gap |  |
| Application Threat Protections | a) Threat protections is integrated into mission-critical application workflows.  b) Threat protections safeguard applications against known threats and address some application-specific threats. | Near-RT RIC Applications and Workloads Assets |  |  |  |
| Application Threat Protections | a) Threat protections is integrated into mission-critical application workflows.  b) Threat protections safeguard applications against known threats and address some application-specific threats. | ASSET-C-13 ASSET-C-41 ASSET-C-43 | REQ-SEC-ALM-SU-2  REQ-SEC-ALM-SU-3 | No gap |  |
| Application Threat Protections | a) Threat protections is integrated into mission-critical application workflows.  b) Threat protections safeguard applications against known threats and address some application-specific threats. | Other Services of the Near-RT RIC platform | REQ-SEC-ALM-SU-2  REQ-SEC-ALM-SU-3 | No gap | Gap resolved as requirements were identified after initial analysis |
| Accessible Applications | a) Applicable mission-critical applications are available over open public network connections to authorized users as needed. | xApp Applications and Workloads Assets |  |  |  |
| Accessible Applications | a) Applicable mission-critical applications are available over open public network connections to authorized users as needed. | ASSET-C-09 | None | Gap | Out of scope for O-RAN No identified Mission critical applications |
| Accessible Applications | a) Applicable mission-critical applications are available over open public network connections to authorized users as needed. | Near-RT RIC Applications and Workloads Assets |  |  |  |
| Accessible Applications | a) Applicable mission-critical applications are available over open public network connections to authorized users as needed. | ASSET-C-13 ASSET-C-41 ASSET-C-43 | None | Gap | Out of scope for O-RAN No identified Mission critical applications |
| Accessible Applications | a) Applicable mission-critical applications are available over open public network connections to authorized users as needed. | Other Services of the Near-RT RIC platform | None | Gap | Out of scope for O-RAN No identified Mission critical applications |
| Secure Application  Development and  Deployment Workflow  (New Function) | a) Infrastructure for development, testing, and production environments (including automation).  b) Formal code deployment mechanisms through CI/CD pipelines.  c) Access controls support least privilege principles. | xApp Applications and Workloads Assets |  |  |  |
| Secure Application  Development and  Deployment Workflow  (New Function) | a) Infrastructure for development, testing, and production environments (including automation).  b) Formal code deployment mechanisms through CI/CD pipelines.  c) Access controls support least privilege principles. | ASSET-C-09 | None | Gap | Out of scope for O-RAN Securing infrastructure for development, testing, and production environments is out of scope for O-RAN. |
| Secure Application  Development and  Deployment Workflow  (New Function) | a) Infrastructure for development, testing, and production environments (including automation).  b) Formal code deployment mechanisms through CI/CD pipelines.  c) Access controls support least privilege principles. | Near-RT RIC Application and Workloads Assets |  |  |  |
| Secure Application  Development and  Deployment Workflow  (New Function) | a) Infrastructure for development, testing, and production environments (including automation).  b) Formal code deployment mechanisms through CI/CD pipelines.  c) Access controls support least privilege principles. | ASSET-C-13 ASSET-C-41 ASSET-C-43 | None | Gap | Out of scope for O-RAN Securing infrastructure for development, testing, and production environments is out of scope for O-RAN. |
| Secure Application  Development and  Deployment Workflow  (New Function) | a) Infrastructure for development, testing, and production environments (including automation).  b) Formal code deployment mechanisms through CI/CD pipelines.  c) Access controls support least privilege principles. | Other Services of the Near-RT RIC platform | None | Gap | Out of scope for O-RAN Securing infrastructure for development, testing, and production environments is out of scope for O-RAN. |
| Application Security  Testing (Formerly  Application Security) | a) Utilization of static and dynamic testing methods for security testing.  b) Performance of security testing including manual expert analysis before application deployment. | xApp Applications and Workloads Assets |  |  |  |
| Application Security  Testing (Formerly  Application Security) | a) Utilization of static and dynamic testing methods for security testing.  b) Performance of security testing including manual expert analysis before application deployment. | ASSET-C-09 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-1 REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-7b | No gap | Guidance (b) is out of scope for O-RAN. |
| Application Security  Testing (Formerly  Application Security) | a) Utilization of static and dynamic testing methods for security testing.  b) Performance of security testing including manual expert analysis before application deployment. | Near-RT RIC Applications and Workloads Assets |  |  |  |
| Application Security  Testing (Formerly  Application Security) | a) Utilization of static and dynamic testing methods for security testing.  b) Performance of security testing including manual expert analysis before application deployment. | ASSET-C-13 ASSET-C-41 ASSET-C-43 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-1 REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-7b | No gap | Guidance (b) is out of scope for O-RAN. |
| Application Security  Testing (Formerly  Application Security) | a) Utilization of static and dynamic testing methods for security testing.  b) Performance of security testing including manual expert analysis before application deployment. | Other Services of the Near-RT RIC platform | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-1 REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-7b | No gap | Guidance (b) is out of scope for O-RAN. Gap resolved as requirements were identified after initial analysis. |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | a) Initiate the automation of application profile (e.g., state, health, and performance) and security monitoring processes for improved log collection, aggregation, and analytics. | xApp Applications and Workloads Assets |  |  |  |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | a) Initiate the automation of application profile (e.g., state, health, and performance) and security monitoring processes for improved log collection, aggregation, and analytics. | ASSET-C-09 | REQ-SEC-SLM-FLD-1 REQ-SEC-SLM-FLD-2 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-5 | Partial gap | These requirements allow for the inclusion of application profile information in security logs. However, the automation of application profile monitoring processes and analytics is not addressed. Log collection, aggregation, and analytics are considered out of scope for O-RAN. As specified in [i.31], SIEM is not within the O-RAN Alliance's scope and is not defined by the O-RAN Alliance. |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | a) Initiate the automation of application profile (e.g., state, health, and performance) and security monitoring processes for improved log collection, aggregation, and analytics. | Near-RT RIC Applications and Workloads Assets |  |  |  |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | a) Initiate the automation of application profile (e.g., state, health, and performance) and security monitoring processes for improved log collection, aggregation, and analytics. | ASSET-C-13 ASSET-C-41 ASSET-C-43 | REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-3 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-5 | Partial gap | Security log requirements enable generation of security logs, but analysis and automation are not specified. Log collection, aggregation, and analytics are considered out of scope for O-RAN. As specified in [i.31], SIEM is not within the O-RAN Alliance's scope and is not defined by the O-RAN Alliance. |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | a) Initiate the automation of application profile (e.g., state, health, and performance) and security monitoring processes for improved log collection, aggregation, and analytics. | Other Services of the Near-RT RIC platform | REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-3 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-5 | Partial gap | Security log requirements enable generation of security logs, but analysis and automation are not specified. Log collection, aggregation, and analytics are considered out of scope for O-RAN. As specified in [i.31], SIEM is not within the O-RAN Alliance's scope and is not defined by the O-RAN Alliance. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | a) Periodically modifies application configurations, including location and access parameters, to align with pertinent security and performance objectives. | xApp Applications and Workloads Assets |  |  |  |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | a) Periodically modifies application configurations, including location and access parameters, to align with pertinent security and performance objectives. | ASSET-C-09 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as application configuration falls under the operator’s responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | a) Periodically modifies application configurations, including location and access parameters, to align with pertinent security and performance objectives. | Near-RT RIC Applications and Workloads Assets |  |  |  |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | a) Periodically modifies application configurations, including location and access parameters, to align with pertinent security and performance objectives. | ASSET-C-13 ASSET-C-41 ASSET-C-43 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as application configuration falls under the operator’s responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | a) Periodically modifies application configurations, including location and access parameters, to align with pertinent security and performance objectives. | Other Services of the Near-RT RIC platform | None | Gap | Out of scope, as application configuration falls under the operator’s responsibilities. |

#### xApp and Near-RT RIC Identity Pillar Analysis

##### xApp Identity Pillar Assets

The applicable assets and components defined in the WG11 O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment [i.4] and the WG3 Near-RT RIC Architecture [i.23] are as follows:

- ASSET-C-09: xApps.

##### Near-RT RIC Identity Pillar Assets

The applicable assets and components defined in the WG11 O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment [i.4] and the WG3 Near-RT RIC Architecture [i.23] are as follows:

- ASSET-C-02: Near-RT RIC software.

##### Identity Pillar Transversal Functions

The following identity pillar functions are considered transversal and are covered in 7.3.2:

- Identity stores.
- Risk assessments.
- Access management.

##### xApp and Near-RT RIC Identity Pillar Gap Analysis

| Identity ZT Function | Guidance to reach initial stage | Asset(s) | Existing Requirements mapped to CISA stage | Assessed Gap to Initial CISA Stage | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Authentication | The system authenticates identity using MFA, which may include passwords as one factor and requires validation of multiple entity attributes (e.g., locale or activity). a) If there is mutual authentication for internal communications, we consider the stage as INITIAL. b) For internal interfaces, authentication based on credentials alone (certificate, pre-shared key, etc.) can be considered as meeting INITIAL maturity level. | xApp Identity Pillar Assets |  |  |  |
| Authentication | The system authenticates identity using MFA, which may include passwords as one factor and requires validation of multiple entity attributes (e.g., locale or activity). a) If there is mutual authentication for internal communications, we consider the stage as INITIAL. b) For internal interfaces, authentication based on credentials alone (certificate, pre-shared key, etc.) can be considered as meeting INITIAL maturity level. | ASSET-C-09 | REQ-SEC-XAPP-3 REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-3 SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-1 SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-2 | No gap |  |
| Authentication | The system authenticates identity using MFA, which may include passwords as one factor and requires validation of multiple entity attributes (e.g., locale or activity). a) If there is mutual authentication for internal communications, we consider the stage as INITIAL. b) For internal interfaces, authentication based on credentials alone (certificate, pre-shared key, etc.) can be considered as meeting INITIAL maturity level. | Near-RT RIC Identity Pillar Assets |  |  |  |
| Authentication | The system authenticates identity using MFA, which may include passwords as one factor and requires validation of multiple entity attributes (e.g., locale or activity). a) If there is mutual authentication for internal communications, we consider the stage as INITIAL. b) For internal interfaces, authentication based on credentials alone (certificate, pre-shared key, etc.) can be considered as meeting INITIAL maturity level. | ASSET-C-02 | SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-1 REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-3 SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-2 | No gap |  |
| Access Management (Authorization) | The system authorizes access, including for privileged access requests, that expires with automated review.  a) This function applies to APIs and user access. b) For applications, static role assignments (e.g. role binding of a service account) with ephemeral tokens can be considered as INITIAL stage. | xApp Identity Pillar Assets |  |  |  |
| Access Management (Authorization) | The system authorizes access, including for privileged access requests, that expires with automated review.  a) This function applies to APIs and user access. b) For applications, static role assignments (e.g. role binding of a service account) with ephemeral tokens can be considered as INITIAL stage. | ASSET-C-09 | SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-3 | No gap |  |
| Access Management (Authorization) | The system authorizes access, including for privileged access requests, that expires with automated review.  a) This function applies to APIs and user access. b) For applications, static role assignments (e.g. role binding of a service account) with ephemeral tokens can be considered as INITIAL stage. | Near-RT RIC Identity Pillar Assets |  |  |  |
| Access Management (Authorization) | The system authorizes access, including for privileged access requests, that expires with automated review.  a) This function applies to APIs and user access. b) For applications, static role assignments (e.g. role binding of a service account) with ephemeral tokens can be considered as INITIAL stage. | ASSET-C-09 | SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-3 | No gap |  |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | a) Collecting user and entity activity logs. b) Performing Routine Analysis: a. Conduct regular manual analysis of the logs. b. Implement some automated analysis, with limited correlation between different log types. | xApp Identity Pillar Assets |  |  |  |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | a) Collecting user and entity activity logs. b) Performing Routine Analysis: a. Conduct regular manual analysis of the logs. b. Implement some automated analysis, with limited correlation between different log types. | ASSET-C-09 | REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-4 | Partial gap | Security log requirements enable the generation of security logs, but analysis, automation, and correlation are not specified. Analysis, automation, and correlation are considered out of scope for O-RAN. As specified in [i.31], SIEM is not within the O-RAN Alliance's scope and is not defined by the O-RAN Alliance. |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | a) Collecting user and entity activity logs. b) Performing Routine Analysis: a. Conduct regular manual analysis of the logs. b. Implement some automated analysis, with limited correlation between different log types. | Near-RT RIC Identity Pillar Assets |  |  |  |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | a) Collecting user and entity activity logs. b) Performing Routine Analysis: a. Conduct regular manual analysis of the logs. b. Implement some automated analysis, with limited correlation between different log types. | ASSET-C-02 | REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-3 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-4 | Partial gap | Security log requirements enable the generation of security logs, but analysis, automation, and correlation are not specified. Analysis and correlation are considered out of scope for O-RAN. As specified in [i.31], SIEM is not within the O-RAN Alliance's scope and is not defined by the O-RAN Alliance. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | a) Manually orchestrates privileged and external identities. b) Automates orchestration of non-privileged users. c) Automates orchestration of self-managed entities. | xApp Identity Pillar Assets |  |  |  |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | a) Manually orchestrates privileged and external identities. b) Automates orchestration of non-privileged users. c) Automates orchestration of self-managed entities. | ASSET-C-09 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as identities orchestration fall under the operator’s responsibilities |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | a) Manually orchestrates privileged and external identities. b) Automates orchestration of non-privileged users. c) Automates orchestration of self-managed entities. | Near-RT RIC Identity Pillar Assets |  |  |  |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | a) Manually orchestrates privileged and external identities. b) Automates orchestration of non-privileged users. c) Automates orchestration of self-managed entities. | ASSET-C-02 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as identities orchestration fall under the operator’s responsibilities |

#### xApp and Near-RT RIC Networks Pillar Analysis

##### xApp Networks Pillar Assets

- No asset applicable to specific pillar

##### Near-RT RIC Networks Pillar Assets

The applicable assets and components defined in the WG11 O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment [i.4] and the WG3 Near-RT RIC Architecture [i.23] are as follows:

- Near-RT RIC APIs.

##### Networks Pillar Transversal Functions

The following Network pillars functions are considered transversal and are covered in 7.3.2:

- Network Segmentation.
- Network Traffic Management.
- Network resilience.

##### xApp and Near-RT RIC Networks Pillar Gap Analysis

| Networks ZT Function | Guidance to reach initial stage | Asset(s) | Existing Requirements mapped to CISA stage | Assessed Gap to Initial CISA Stage | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Traffic Encryption | Encryption for all internal (and preferably external) application traffic, with formalized key management policies and secure encryption keys. | Near-RT RIC Networks Pillar Assets |  |  |  |
| Traffic Encryption | Encryption for all internal (and preferably external) application traffic, with formalized key management policies and secure encryption keys. | Near-RT RIC APIs | SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-6 SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-7 | No gap |  |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | a) Utilize network monitoring capabilities based on known indicators of compromise, including network enumeration, to develop situational awareness in each environment. b) Commence correlating telemetry across traffic types and environments to facilitate analysis and threat hunting activities. | Near-RT RIC Networks Pillar Assets |  |  |  |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | a) Utilize network monitoring capabilities based on known indicators of compromise, including network enumeration, to develop situational awareness in each environment. b) Commence correlating telemetry across traffic types and environments to facilitate analysis and threat hunting activities. | Near-RT RIC APIs | None | Gap | No requirements for providing network monitoring information. Providing the required information is within scope. However, the collection, analysis, and correlation of this information to achieve visibility are considered out of scope for O-RAN. As specified in [i.31], SIEM is not within the O-RAN Alliance's scope and is not defined by the O-RAN Alliance. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | a) Initiate the use of automated methods to manage the configuration and lifecycle of resources within specific networks or environments. b) Ensure that all resources have a defined lifetime determined by policies and telemetry data. | Near-RT RIC Networks Pillar Assets |  |  |  |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | a) Initiate the use of automated methods to manage the configuration and lifecycle of resources within specific networks or environments. b) Ensure that all resources have a defined lifetime determined by policies and telemetry data. | Near-RT RIC APIs | None | Gap | Out of scope, network resource configuration and lifecycle management fall under the operator’s responsibilities. |

#### xApp and Near-RT RIC Devices Pillar Analysis

##### xApp Devices Pillar Assets

- No asset applicable to specific pillar

##### Near-RT RIC Devices Pillar Assets

- No asset applicable to specific pillar

##### Devices Pillar Transversal Functions

The following devices pillar functions are considered transversal and are covered in 7.3.2:

- Policy Enforcement and Compliance Monitoring.
- Asset & Supply Chain Risk Management.

##### xApp and Near-RT RIC Devices Pillar Gap Analysis

- The Devices Pillar is out of scope for the gap analysis.

### E2 Interface Gap Analysis

#### E2 Interface Data Pillar Analysis

##### E2 Interface Data Pillar Assets

The applicable assets defined in the WG11 O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment [i.4] are as follows:

- ASSET-D-09: Data transported over the E2 Interface
- ASSET-D-30: O-RAN specific several UE IDs.
- ASSET-D-16: X.509 certificates.
- ASSET-D-17: Private keys
- ASSET-D-25: Training or test data

##### E2 Interface Data Pillar Gap Analysis

| Data ZT Function | Guidance to reach initial stage | Asset(s) | Existing Requirements mapped to CISA stage | Assessed Gap to Initial CISA Stage | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | E2 Interface Data Assets |  |  |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | Asset-D-09 | REQ-SEC-E2-1 SEC-CTL-E2-1 | Partial gap | Authorization control not defined (NOTE 1) |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | Asset-D-16 | REQ-SEC-E2-1 SEC-CTL-E2-1 | Partial gap | Authorization control not defined (NOTE 1) |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | Asset-D-17 | REQ-SEC-E2-1 SEC-CTL-E2-1 | Partial gap | Authorization control not defined (NOTE 1) |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | Asset-D-25 | REQ-SEC-E2-1 SEC-CTL-E2-1 | Partial gap | Authorization control not defined (NOTE 1) |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | Asset-D-30 | REQ-SEC-E2-1 SEC-CTL-E2-1 | Partial gap | Authorization control not defined (NOTE 1) |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | E2 Interface Data Assets |  |  |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | Asset-D-09 | REQ-SEC-E2-1 SEC-CTL-E2-1 | No gap | Encryption at rest may not be needed. |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | Asset-D-16 | REQ-SEC-E2-1 SEC-CTL-E2-1 | No gap | Encryption at rest may not be needed. |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | Asset-D-17 | REQ-SEC-E2-1 SEC-CTL-E2-1 | No gap | Encryption at rest may not be needed. |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | Asset-D-25 | REQ-SEC-E2-1 SEC-CTL-E2-1 | No gap | Encryption at rest may not be needed. |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | Asset-D-30 | REQ-SEC-E2-1 SEC-CTL-E2-1 | No gap | Encryption at rest may not be needed. |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | a) Utilizes data inventory management, data categorization, data encryption, and access attempts information with some automated analysis and correlation to obtain visibility. | E2 Interface Data Assets |  |  |  |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | a) Utilizes data inventory management, data categorization, data encryption, and access attempts information with some automated analysis and correlation to obtain visibility. | Asset-D-09 Asset-D-16 Asset-D-17 Asset-D-25 Asset-D-30 | REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-1 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-2 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-3 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-6 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-7 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-8 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-5 | Partial gap | This is a partial gap, as the listed requirements address logging for data encryption and access attempts information. However, there are no requirements for providing information for: Data inventory management Data categorization. Creating and providing the required information is within scope. However, the collection, analysis, and correlation of this information to achieve visibility are considered out of scope for O-RAN. As specified in [i.31], SIEM is not within the O-RAN Alliance's scope and is not defined by the O-RAN Alliance. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | a) Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | E2 Interface Data Assets |  |  |  |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | a) Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | Asset-D-09 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | a) Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | Asset-D-16 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | a) Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | Asset-D-17 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | a) Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | Asset-D-25 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | a) Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | Asset-D-30 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |
| NOTE: 	In this case authentication grants authorization and there is no native authorization method for SCTP. |  |  |  |  |  |

#### E2 Interface Applications and Workloads Pillar Analysis

##### E2 Interface Applications and Workloads Pillar Assets

- No asset applicable to specific pillar

##### E2 Interface Applications and Workloads Pillar Gap Analysis

- No gap analysis applies since there are no assets applicable to specific pillar

#### E2 Interface Identity Pillar Analysis

##### E2 Interface Identity Pillar Assets

- No asset applicable to specific pillar

##### E2 Interface Identity Pillar Gap Analysis

- No gap analysis applies since there are no assets applicable to specific pillar

#### E2 Interface Networks Pillar Analysis

##### E2 Interface Networks Pillar Assets

The applicable assets and components defined in the WG11 O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment [i.4] and the WG3 Near-RT RIC Architecture [i.23] are as follows:

- ASSET-C-40: E2 interface, including protocol stack

##### E2 Interface Networks Pillar Gap Analysis

| Networks ZT Function | Guidance to reach initial stage | Asset(s) | Existing Requirements mapped to CISA stage | Assessed Gap to Initial CISA Stage | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Traffic Encryption | Encryption for all internal (and preferably external) application traffic, with formalized key management policies and secure encryption keys. | E2 Networks Pillar Assets |  |  |  |
| Traffic Encryption | Encryption for all internal (and preferably external) application traffic, with formalized key management policies and secure encryption keys. | ASSET-C-40 | SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-7 | No gap |  |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | a) Utilize network monitoring capabilities based on known indicators of compromise, including network enumeration, to develop situational awareness in each environment. b) Commence correlating telemetry across traffic types and environments to facilitate analysis and threat hunting activities. | E2 Networks Pillar Assets |  |  |  |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | a) Utilize network monitoring capabilities based on known indicators of compromise, including network enumeration, to develop situational awareness in each environment. b) Commence correlating telemetry across traffic types and environments to facilitate analysis and threat hunting activities. | ASSET-C-40 | None | Gap | No requirements for providing network monitoring information.   Providing the required information is within scope. However, the collection, analysis, and correlation of this information to achieve visibility are considered out of scope for O-RAN. As specified in [i.31], SIEM is not within the O-RAN Alliance's scope and is not defined by the O-RAN Alliance. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | a) Initiate the use of automated methods to manage the configuration and lifecycle of resources within specific networks or environments. b) Ensure that all resources have a defined lifetime determined by policies and telemetry data. | E2 Networks Pillar Assets |  |  |  |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | a) Initiate the use of automated methods to manage the configuration and lifecycle of resources within specific networks or environments. b) Ensure that all resources have a defined lifetime determined by policies and telemetry data. | ASSET-C-40 | None | Gap | Out of scope, network resource configuration and lifecycle management fall under the operator’s responsibilities. |

#### E2 Interface Devices Pillar Analysis

##### E2 Interface Devices Pillar Assets

- No asset applicable to specific pillar

##### E2 Interface Devices Pillar Transversal Functions

The following devices pillar functions are considered transversal and are covered in 7.3.2:

- Policy Enforcement and Compliance Monitoring.
- Asset & Supply Chain Risk Management.

##### E2 Interface Devices Pillar Gap Analysis

- The Devices Pillar is out of scope for the gap analysis.

### Y1 Interface Gap Analysis

#### Y1 Interface Data Pillar Analysis

##### Y1 Interface Data Pillar Assets

- Data transported over the Y1 interface

##### Y1 Interface Data Pillar Gap Analysis

| Data ZT Function | Guidance to reach initial stage | Asset(s) | Existing Requirements mapped to CISA stage | Assessed Gap to Initial CISA Stage | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | Y1 Interface Data Assets |  |  |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | Data Transported over Y1 Interface | REQ-SEC-Y1-2 SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-10 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | Y1 Interface Data Assets |  |  |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | Data transported over Y1 Interface | REQ-SEC-Y1-3 SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-11 | No gap | Encryption at rest may not be needed. |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | a) Utilizes data inventory management, data categorization, data encryption, and access attempts information with some automated analysis and correlation to obtain visibility. | Y1 Interface Data Assets |  |  |  |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | a) Utilizes data inventory management, data categorization, data encryption, and access attempts information with some automated analysis and correlation to obtain visibility. | Data Transported over Y1 Interface | REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-1 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-2 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-3 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-6 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-7 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-8 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-5 | Partial gap | This is a partial gap, as the listed requirements address logging for data encryption and access attempts information. However, there are no requirements for providing information for: Data inventory management Data categorization. Creating and providing the required information is. within scope. However, the collection, analysis, and correlation of this information to achieve visibility are considered out of scope for O-RAN. As specified in [i.31], SIEM is not within the O-RAN Alliance's scope and is not defined by the O-RAN Alliance. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | a) Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | Y1 Interface Data Assets |  |  |  |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | a) Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | Data Transported over Y1 Interface | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |

#### Y1 Interface Applications and Workloads Pillar Analysis

##### Y1 Interface Applications and Workloads Pillar Assets

- No asset applicable to specific pillar

##### Y1 Interface Applications and Workloads Pillar Gap Analysis

- No gap analysis applies since there are no assets applicable to specific pillar

#### Y1 Interface Identity Pillar Analysis

##### Y1 Interface Identity Pillar Assets

- No asset applicable to specific pillar

##### Y1 Interface Identity Pillar Gap Analysis

- No gap analysis applies since there are no assets applicable to specific pillar

#### Y1 Interface Networks Pillar Analysis

##### Y1 Interface Networks Pillar Assets

The applicable assets and components defined in the WG11 O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment  [i.4] and the WG3 Near-RT RIC Architecture [i.23] are as follows:

- ASSET-C-42: Y1 interface, including protocol stack

##### Y1 Interface Networks Pillar Gap Analysis

| Networks ZT Function | Guidance to reach initial stage | Asset(s) | Existing Requirements mapped to CISA stage | Assessed Gap to Initial CISA Stage | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Traffic Encryption | Encryption for all internal (and preferably external) application traffic, with formalized key management policies and secure encryption keys. | Y1 Networks Pillar Assets |  |  |  |
| Traffic Encryption | Encryption for all internal (and preferably external) application traffic, with formalized key management policies and secure encryption keys. | ASSET-C-42 | REQ-SEC-Y1-3 SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-11 | No gap |  |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | a) Utilize network monitoring capabilities based on known indicators of compromise, including network enumeration, to develop situational awareness in each environment. b) Commence correlating telemetry across traffic types and environments to facilitate analysis and threat hunting activities. | Y1 Networks Pillar Assets |  |  |  |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | a) Utilize network monitoring capabilities based on known indicators of compromise, including network enumeration, to develop situational awareness in each environment. b) Commence correlating telemetry across traffic types and environments to facilitate analysis and threat hunting activities. | ASSET-C-42 | None | Gap | No requirements for providing network monitoring information.  Providing the required information is within scope. However, the collection, analysis, and correlation of this information to achieve visibility are considered out of scope for O-RAN. As specified in [i.31], SIEM is not within the O-RAN Alliance's scope and is not defined by the O-RAN Alliance. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | a) Initiate the use of automated methods to manage the configuration and lifecycle of resources within specific networks or environments. b) Ensure that all resources have a defined lifetime determined by policies and telemetry data. | Y1 Networks Pillar Assets |  |  |  |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | a) Initiate the use of automated methods to manage the configuration and lifecycle of resources within specific networks or environments. b) Ensure that all resources have a defined lifetime determined by policies and telemetry data. | ASSET-C-42 | None | Gap | Out of scope, network resource configuration and lifecycle management fall under the operator’s responsibilities. |

#### Y1 Interface Devices Pillar Analysis

##### Y1 Interface Devices Pillar Assets

- No asset applicable to specific pillar

##### Y1 Interface Devices Pillar Transversal Functions

The following devices pillar functions are considered transversal and are covered in 7.3.2:

- Policy Enforcement and Compliance Monitoring.
- Asset & Supply Chain Risk Management.

##### Y1 Interface Devices Pillar Gap Analysis

- The Devices Pillar is out of scope for the gap analysis.

### rApp and Non-RT RIC Gap Analysis

#### rApp and Non-RT RIC Data Pillar Analysis

##### rApp Data Pillar Assets

The applicable assets defined in the WG11 O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment [i.4] are as follows:

- ASSET-D-16: X.509 certificates.
- ASSET-D-17: Private keys
- ASSET-D-18: O-RAN components associated and configuration data.
- ASSET-D-20: Credentials (Administrators).
- ASSET-D-23: Patches for vulnerable SW components.
- ASSET-D-25: Training or test data
- ASSET-D-26: The trained ML model
- ASSET-D-27: The ML prediction results built into the model.
- ASSET-D-28: The behavior of the ML system
- ASSET-D-29: Security event log files.
- ASSET-D-32: Cryptographic keys used during secure boot.

##### Non-RT RIC Data Pillar Assets

The applicable assets defined in the WG11 O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment [i.4] are as follows:

- ASSET-D-03: Critical Management-Plane data transported over the O1 interface.
- ASSET-D-07: A1 policies that are provided to the near-RT RIC over the A1 interface to guide the RAN performance towards the overall goal expressed in RAN Intent.
- ASSET-D-08: A1 Enrichment Information that is collected or derived at SMO/non-RT RIC either from non-network data sources or from network functions themselves and provided over the A1 interface to be utilized by near-RT RIC, e.g. an ML model, to improve its performance. Discovery and request of A1 Enrichment Information from near-RT RIC to non-RT RIC. External Enrichment Information that is provided by an O-RAN external information source to near-RT RIC over A1.
- ASSET-D-16: X.509 certificates.
- ASSET-D-17: Private keys
- ASSET-D-18: O-RAN components associated and configuration data.
- ASSET-D-20: Credentials (Administrators).
- ASSET-D-23: Patches for vulnerable SW components.
- ASSET-D-24: NETCONF Configuration Access Control Model datastores
- ASSET-D-25: Training or test data
- ASSET-D-26: The trained ML model
- ASSET-D-27: The ML prediction results built into the model.
- ASSET-D-28: The behavior of the ML system
- ASSET-D-29: Security event log files.
- ASSET-D-30: O-RAN specific UE IDs.
- ASSET-D-31: Security telemetry from the NFV system for detecting threats and anomalies.
- ASSET-D-32: Cryptographic keys used during secure boot, for encryption/decryption, etc.
- ASSET-D-40: ML models that have not been trained yet, i.e., Initial Models and their associated learning algorithm.

##### rApp and Non-RT RIC Data Pillar Gap Analysis

| Data ZT Function | Guidance to Reach Initial Stage | Asset(s) | Existing Requirements Mapped to CISA Stage | Assessed Gap to Initial CISA Stage | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | rApp Data Assets |  |  |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-16 | None | Gap | No action needed. X.509 certs are publicly available |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-17 | None | Gap | Authentication and authorization controls not defined |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-18 | None | Gap | Authentication and authorization controls not defined |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-20 | None | Gap | Authentication and authorization controls not defined |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-23 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-11 SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-1 SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-2 | No gap |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-25 (included in app package) | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-11 SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-1 SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-2 | No gap |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-25 (excluded from app package) | None | Gap | Authentication and authorization controls not defined |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-26 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-11 SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-1 SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-2 | No gap |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-27 | None | Gap | Authentication and authorization controls not defined |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-28 | None | Gap | Authentication and authorization controls not defined |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-29 | REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-6 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-7 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESM-1 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESM-3 REQ-SEC-TESR-1 REQ-SEC-TESR-7 REQ-SEC-TESR-9 REQ-SEC-TESR-11 REQ-SEC-SLM-SST-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-STR-2 | No gap |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-32 | None | Gap | Authentication and authorization controls not defined |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | Non-RT RIC Data Assets |  |  |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | O1 ASSET-D-03 | REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-1 REQ-SEC-SMO-1 REQ-SEC-SMO-2 REQ-SEC-SMO-3 REQ-SEC-SMO-Internal-2 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 O-RAN Management Plane Specification clauses 5.4 & 6.5 [i.26] REQ-SEC-SharedORU-1 REQ-SEC-SharedORU-2 | Partial gap | No requirements for automated data access control and least privilege |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | A1 policies  ASSET-D-07 | REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-1 SEC-CTL-NonRTRIC-2 | Partial gap | No requirements for automated data access control and least privilege |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | A1 Enrichment Information ASSET-D-08 | REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-1 SEC-CTL-NonRTRIC-1 | Partial gap | No requirements for automated data access control and least privilege |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | X.509 Certificates ASSET-D-16 | REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-1 REQ-SEC-SMO-1 REQ-SEC-SMO-2 REQ-SEC-SMO-3 REQ-SEC-SMO-Internal-2 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 | Partial gap | No requirements for automated data access control and least privilege |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | Private Keys ASSET-D-17 | REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-1 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-2 REQ-SEC-OCloud-ISO-1 REQ-SEC-OCloud-ISO-3 REQ-SEC-OCloud-ISO-7 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 | No gap |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | Architecture Element Data ASSET-D-18 ASSET-D-20 ASSET-D-31 | REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-1 REQ-SEC-SMO-1 REQ-SEC-SMO-2 REQ-SEC-SMO-3 REQ-TLS-FUN-2 REQ-TLS-FUN-4 REQ-NAC-FUN-1 REQ-NAC-FUN-2 REQ-NAC-FUN-3 REQ-NAC-FUN-4 REQ-NAC-FUN-5 REQ-NAC-FUN-6 REQ-NAC-FUN-7 REQ-NAC-FUN-8 REQ-NAC-FUN-9 REQ-NAC-FUN-10 REQ-NAC-FUN-11 REQ-SEC-SMO-Internal-2 REQ-SEC-NFO-FOCOM-3 REQ-SEC-NFO-FOCOM-4 REQ-SEC-NFO-FOCOM-5 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 | Partial gap | No requirements for automated data access control and least privilege |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | SW Packages ASSET-D-23 | REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-1 REQ-SEC-SMO-1 REQ-SEC-SMO-2 REQ-SEC-SMO-3 REQ-TLS-FUN-2 REQ-TLS-FUN-4 REQ-NAC-FUN-1 REQ-NAC-FUN-2 REQ-NAC-FUN-3 REQ-NAC-FUN-4 REQ-NAC-FUN-5 REQ-NAC-FUN-6 REQ-NAC-FUN-7 REQ-NAC-FUN-8 REQ-NAC-FUN-9 REQ-NAC-FUN-10 REQ-NAC-FUN-11 REQ-SEC-SMO-Internal-2 REQ-SEC-NFO-FOCOM-3 REQ-SEC-NFO-FOCOM-4 REQ-SEC-NFO-FOCOM-5 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-10 REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-11 | Partial gap | No requirements for automated data access control and least privilege |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | Non-O-Cloud Architecture Element Data ASSET-D-24 ASSET-D-25 ASSET-D-26 ASSET-D-27 ASSET-D-28 ASSET-D-30 ASSET-D-32 ASSET-D-40 | REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-1 REQ-SEC-SMO-1 REQ-SEC-SMO-2 REQ-SEC-SMO-3 REQ-TLS-FUN-2 REQ-TLS-FUN-4 REQ-NAC-FUN-1 REQ-NAC-FUN-2 REQ-NAC-FUN-3 REQ-NAC-FUN-4 REQ-NAC-FUN-5 REQ-NAC-FUN-6 REQ-NAC-FUN-7 REQ-NAC-FUN-8 REQ-NAC-FUN-9 REQ-NAC-FUN-10 REQ-NAC-FUN-11 REQ-SEC-SMO-Internal-1 REC-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 | Partial gap | No requirements for automated data access control and least privilege |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | Log Files ASSET-D-29 | REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-1 REQ-SEC-SMO-1 REQ-SEC-SMO-2 REQ-SEC-SMO-3 REQ-TLS-FUN-2 REQ-TLS-FUN-4 REQ-NAC-FUN-1 REQ-NAC-FUN-2 REQ-NAC-FUN-3 REQ-NAC-FUN-4 REQ-NAC-FUN-5 REQ-NAC-FUN-6 REQ-NAC-FUN-7 REQ-NAC-FUN-8 REQ-NAC-FUN-9 REQ-NAC-FUN-10 REQ-NAC-FUN-11 REQ-SEC-SMO-Internal-2 REQ-SEC-SMO-External-2 REQ-SEC-NFO-FOCOM-3 REQ-SEC-NFO-FOCOM-4 REQ-SEC-NFO-FOCOM-5 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 | Partial gap | No requirements for automated data access control and least privilege |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | rApp Data Assets |  |  |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-16 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-13 SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-2 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-17 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-13 SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-2 SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-4 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-18 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-13 REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-14 | No gap | Gap resolved by new requirements added after initial analysis |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-20 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-13 SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-2 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-23 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-10 SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-1 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-25 (included in app package) | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-10 SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-1 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-25 (excluded from app package) | REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-14 | Partial gap | Gap partially resolved by new requirements added after initial analysis. No encryption in transit. |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-26 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-10 SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-1 | No gap | If we consider trained ML model as part of app package |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-27 | REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-14 | Partial gap | Gap resolved by new requirements added after initial analysis. No encryption in transit. |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-28 | REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-14 | Partial gap | Gap resolved by new requirements added after initial analysis. No encryption in transit. |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-29 | REQ-SEC-SLM-TESM-2 REQ-SEC-TESR-6 REQ-SEC-SLM-SST-2 REQ-SEC-SLM-STR-1 SEC-CTL-SLM-SST-2 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-32 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-13 SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-2 SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-4 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | Non-RT RIC Data Assets |  |  |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | O1 ASSET-D-03 | REQ-SEC-SMO-Internal-1 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 REQ-SEC-SMO-8 REQ-SEC-SMOS-5 | No gap | Gap resolved by new requirements added after initial analysis |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | A1 policies  ASSET-D-07 | REQ-SEC-SMO-Internal-1 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 REQ-SEC-SMO-8 REQ-SEC-SMOS-5 | No gap | Gap resolved by new requirements added after initial analysis |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | A1 Enrichment Information ASSET-D-08 | REQ-SEC-SMO-Internal-1 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 REQ-SEC-SMO-8 REQ-SEC-SMOS-5 | No gap | Gap resolved by new requirements added after initial analysis |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | Data not used by NFO/FOCOM ASSET-D-16 ASSET-D-17 ASSET-D-24 ASSET-D-25 ASSET-D-26 ASSET-D-27 ASSET-D-28 ASSET-D-30 ASSET-D-40 | REQ-SEC-SMO-Internal-1 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 REQ-SEC-SMO-8 REQ-SEC-SMOS-5 | No gap | Gap resolved by new requirements added after initial analysis |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | Data used by NFO/FOCOM ASSET-D-18 ASSET-D-20 ASSET-D-29 ASSET-D-31 ASSET-D-32 | REQ-SEC-SMO-Internal-1 REQ-SEC-NFO-FOCOM-1 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 REQ-SEC-SMO-8 REQ-SEC-SMOS-5 | No gap | Gap resolved by new requirements added after initial analysis |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | SW Packages ASSET-D-23 | REQ-SEC-SMO-Internal-1 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-10 REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-11 REQ-SEC-SMO-8 REQ-SEC-SMOS-5 | No gap | Gap resolved by new requirements added after initial analysis |

#### rApp and Non-RT RIC Applications and Workloads Pillar Analysis

##### rApp Applications and Workloads Pillar Assets

The applicable assets defined in the WG11 O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment [i.4] are as follows:

- ASSET-C-10: rApps.
- ASSET-C-12: ML components deploying machine learning such as: ML training and interference hosts, ML applications (xApps, rApps).

##### Non-RT RIC Applications and Workloads Pillar Assets

The applicable assets defined in the WG11 O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment [i.4] are as follows:

- ASSET-C-13: A1 termination.
- ASSET-C-15: R1 termination.
- ASSET-C-20: A1 Functions.
- ASSET-C-47: rApp Management.
- ASSET-C-48: R1 Services.
- ASSET-C-55: A1 Policy Management.
- ASSET-C-56: A1 E1 Management.

##### rApp and Non-RT Applications and Workloads Pillar Gap Analysis

| Application and Workloads ZT Function | Guidance to Reach Initial Stage | Asset(s) | Existing Requirements Mapped to CISA Stage | Assessed Gap to Initial CISA Stage | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Application Access (Authorization) | a) Access authorization capabilities utilize contextual information such as identity, device compliance, and other attributes to make decisions on various requests for accessing application assets. b) Authorization is granted per request with expiration. | rApps Application and Workloads Assets |  |  |  |
| Application Access (Authorization) | a) Access authorization capabilities utilize contextual information such as identity, device compliance, and other attributes to make decisions on various requests for accessing application assets. b) Authorization is granted per request with expiration. | ASSET-C-10 | None | Gap |  |
| Application Access (Authorization) | a) Access authorization capabilities utilize contextual information such as identity, device compliance, and other attributes to make decisions on various requests for accessing application assets. b) Authorization is granted per request with expiration. | ASSET-C-12 | None | Gap |  |
| Application Access (Authorization) | a) Access authorization capabilities utilize contextual information such as identity, device compliance, and other attributes to make decisions on various requests for accessing application assets. b) Authorization is granted per request with expiration. | Non-RT RIC Application and Workloads Assets |  |  |  |
| Application Access (Authorization) | a) Access authorization capabilities utilize contextual information such as identity, device compliance, and other attributes to make decisions on various requests for accessing application assets. b) Authorization is granted per request with expiration. | A1 ASSET-C-13 ASSET-C-20 ASSET-C-55 ASSET-C-56 | REQ-SEC-A1-1 REQ-SEC-A1-2 REQ-SEC-A1-3 REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-1 | No gap |  |
| Application Access (Authorization) | a) Access authorization capabilities utilize contextual information such as identity, device compliance, and other attributes to make decisions on various requests for accessing application assets. b) Authorization is granted per request with expiration. | R1 ASSET-C-15 ASSET-C-47 | REQ-SEC-R1-1 REQ-SEC-R1-2 REQ-SEC-R1-3 REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-1 REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-2 REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-3 REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-8 | No gap |  |
| Application Access (Authorization) | a) Access authorization capabilities utilize contextual information such as identity, device compliance, and other attributes to make decisions on various requests for accessing application assets. b) Authorization is granted per request with expiration. | ASSET-C-48 | REQ-SEC-R1-1 REQ-SEC-R1-2 REQ-SEC-R1-3 REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-1 REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-2 REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-3 REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-8 | Partial gap | No requirements for automated data access control and least privilege for SMOS to SMOS communication |
| Application Threat Protections | a) Threat protections is integrated into mission-critical application workflows. b) Threat protections safeguard applications against known threats and address some application-specific threats. | rApps Application and Workloads Assets |  |  |  |
| Application Threat Protections | a) Threat protections is integrated into mission-critical application workflows. b) Threat protections safeguard applications against known threats and address some application-specific threats. | ASSET-C-10 | REQ-SEC-ALM-SU-2  REQ-SEC-ALM-SU-3 | No gap |  |
| Application Threat Protections | a) Threat protections is integrated into mission-critical application workflows. b) Threat protections safeguard applications against known threats and address some application-specific threats. | ASSET-C-12 | REQ-SEC-ALM-SU-2  REQ-SEC-ALM-SU-3 | No gap |  |
| Application Threat Protections | a) Threat protections is integrated into mission-critical application workflows. b) Threat protections safeguard applications against known threats and address some application-specific threats. | Non-RT RIC Application and Workloads Assets |  |  |  |
| Application Threat Protections | a) Threat protections is integrated into mission-critical application workflows. b) Threat protections safeguard applications against known threats and address some application-specific threats. | ASSET-C-13 ASSET-C-15 ASSET-C-20 ASSET-C-47 ASSET-C-48 ASSET-C-55 ASSET-C-56 | REQ-SEC-ALM-SU-2  REQ-SEC-ALM-SU-3 | No gap |  |
| Accessible Applications | a) Applicable mission-critical applications are available over open public network connections to authorized users as needed. | rApps Application and Workloads Assets |  |  |  |
| Accessible Applications | a) Applicable mission-critical applications are available over open public network connections to authorized users as needed. | ASSET-C-10 | None | Gap | Out of scope for O-RAN No identified Mission critical applications. |
| Accessible Applications | a) Applicable mission-critical applications are available over open public network connections to authorized users as needed. | ASSET-C-12 | None | Gap | Out of scope for O-RAN No identified Mission critical applications. |
| Accessible Applications | a) Applicable mission-critical applications are available over open public network connections to authorized users as needed. | Non-RT RIC Application and Workloads Assets |  |  |  |
| Accessible Applications | a) Applicable mission-critical applications are available over open public network connections to authorized users as needed. | ASSET-C-13 ASSET-C-15 ASSET-C-20 ASSET-C-47 ASSET-C-48 ASSET-C-55 ASSET-C-56 | None | Gap | Out of scope for O-RAN No identified Mission critical applications |
| Secure Application  Development and  Deployment Workflow  (New Function) | a) Infrastructure for development, testing, and production environments (including automation).  b) Formal code deployment mechanisms through CI/CD pipelines.  c) Access controls support least privilege principles. | rApps Application and Workloads Assets |  |  |  |
| Secure Application  Development and  Deployment Workflow  (New Function) | a) Infrastructure for development, testing, and production environments (including automation).  b) Formal code deployment mechanisms through CI/CD pipelines.  c) Access controls support least privilege principles. | ASSET-C-10 | None | Gap | Out of scope for O-RAN Securing infrastructure for development, testing, and production environments is out of scope for O-RAN. |
| Secure Application  Development and  Deployment Workflow  (New Function) | a) Infrastructure for development, testing, and production environments (including automation).  b) Formal code deployment mechanisms through CI/CD pipelines.  c) Access controls support least privilege principles. | ASSET-C-12 | None | Gap | Out of scope for O-RAN Securing infrastructure for development, testing, and production environments is out of scope for O-RAN. |
| Secure Application  Development and  Deployment Workflow  (New Function) | a) Infrastructure for development, testing, and production environments (including automation).  b) Formal code deployment mechanisms through CI/CD pipelines.  c) Access controls support least privilege principles. | Non-RT RIC Application and Workloads Assets |  |  |  |
| Secure Application  Development and  Deployment Workflow  (New Function) | a) Infrastructure for development, testing, and production environments (including automation).  b) Formal code deployment mechanisms through CI/CD pipelines.  c) Access controls support least privilege principles. | ASSET-C-13 ASSET-C-15 ASSET-C-20 ASSET-C-47 ASSET-C-48 ASSET-C-55 ASSET-C-56 | None | Gap | Out of scope for O-RAN Securing infrastructure for development, testing, and production environments is out of scope for O-RAN. |
| Application Security  Testing (Formerly  Application Security) | a) Utilization of static and dynamic testing methods for security testing.  b) Performance of security testing including manual expert analysis before application deployment. | rApps Applications and Workloads Assets |  |  |  |
| Application Security  Testing (Formerly  Application Security) | a) Utilization of static and dynamic testing methods for security testing.  b) Performance of security testing including manual expert analysis before application deployment. | ASSET-C-10 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-1 REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-7b | No gap | Guidance (b) is out of scope for O-RAN. |
| Application Security  Testing (Formerly  Application Security) | a) Utilization of static and dynamic testing methods for security testing.  b) Performance of security testing including manual expert analysis before application deployment. | ASSET-C-12 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-1 REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-7b | No gap | Guidance (b) is out of scope for O-RAN. |
| Application Security  Testing (Formerly  Application Security) | a) Utilization of static and dynamic testing methods for security testing.  b) Performance of security testing including manual expert analysis before application deployment. | Non-RT RIC Application and Workloads Assets |  |  |  |
| Application Security  Testing (Formerly  Application Security) | a) Utilization of static and dynamic testing methods for security testing.  b) Performance of security testing including manual expert analysis before application deployment. | ASSET-C-13 ASSET-C-15 ASSET-C-20 ASSET-C-47 ASSET-C-48 ASSET-C-55 ASSET-C-56 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-1 REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-7b | No gap | Guidance (b) is out of scope for O-RAN. |

#### rApp and Non-RT RIC Identity Pillar Analysis

##### rApp Identity Pillar Assets

The applicable assets defined in the WG11 O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment [i.4] are as follows:

- ASSET-C-10: rApps.
- ASSET-C-12: ML components deploying machine learning such as: ML training and interference hosts, ML applications (xApps, rApps).

##### Non-RT RIC Identity Pillar Assets

The applicable assets defined in the WG11 O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment [i.4] are as follows:

- ASSET-C-13: A1 termination.
- ASSET-C-15: R1 termination.
- ASSET-C-20: A1 Functions.
- ASSET-C-47: rApp Management.
- ASSET-C-48: R1 Services.
- ASSET-C-55: A1 Policy Management.
- ASSET-C-56: A1 E1 Management.

##### rApp and Non-RT Identity Pillar Gap Analysis

| Identity ZT Function | Guidance to Reach Initial Stage | Asset(s) | Existing Requirements Mapped to CISA Stage | Assessed Gap to Initial CISA Stage | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Authentication | The system authenticates identity using MFA, which may include passwords as one factor and requires validation of multiple entity attributes (e.g., locale or activity). a) If there is mutual authentication for internal communications, we consider the stage as INITIAL. b) For internal interfaces, authentication based on credentials alone (certificate, pre-shared key, etc.) can be considered as meeting INITIAL maturity level. | rApp Identity Pillar Assets |  |  |  |
| Authentication | The system authenticates identity using MFA, which may include passwords as one factor and requires validation of multiple entity attributes (e.g., locale or activity). a) If there is mutual authentication for internal communications, we consider the stage as INITIAL. b) For internal interfaces, authentication based on credentials alone (certificate, pre-shared key, etc.) can be considered as meeting INITIAL maturity level. | ASSET-C-10 | REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-7 | Partial gap | There is a security requirement addressing this function, but no corresponding security control in place. This security requirement is defined only for Kafka streaming use case. |
| Authentication | The system authenticates identity using MFA, which may include passwords as one factor and requires validation of multiple entity attributes (e.g., locale or activity). a) If there is mutual authentication for internal communications, we consider the stage as INITIAL. b) For internal interfaces, authentication based on credentials alone (certificate, pre-shared key, etc.) can be considered as meeting INITIAL maturity level. | ASSET-C-12 | REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-7 | Partial gap | There is a security requirement addressing this function, but no corresponding security control in place. This security requirement is defined only for Kafka streaming use case. |
| Authentication | The system authenticates identity using MFA, which may include passwords as one factor and requires validation of multiple entity attributes (e.g., locale or activity). a) If there is mutual authentication for internal communications, we consider the stage as INITIAL. b) For internal interfaces, authentication based on credentials alone (certificate, pre-shared key, etc.) can be considered as meeting INITIAL maturity level. | Non-RT RIC Identity Pillar Assets |  |  |  |
| Authentication | The system authenticates identity using MFA, which may include passwords as one factor and requires validation of multiple entity attributes (e.g., locale or activity). a) If there is mutual authentication for internal communications, we consider the stage as INITIAL. b) For internal interfaces, authentication based on credentials alone (certificate, pre-shared key, etc.) can be considered as meeting INITIAL maturity level. | rApp Management ASSET-C-47 | REQ-SEC-SMO-1 REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-7 REQ-SEC-R1-2 | No gap |  |
| Authentication | The system authenticates identity using MFA, which may include passwords as one factor and requires validation of multiple entity attributes (e.g., locale or activity). a) If there is mutual authentication for internal communications, we consider the stage as INITIAL. b) For internal interfaces, authentication based on credentials alone (certificate, pre-shared key, etc.) can be considered as meeting INITIAL maturity level. | R1 ASSET-C-15 ASSET-C-48 | REQ-SEC-SMO-1 REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-7 REQ-SEC-R1-2 | No gap |  |
| Authentication | The system authenticates identity using MFA, which may include passwords as one factor and requires validation of multiple entity attributes (e.g., locale or activity). a) If there is mutual authentication for internal communications, we consider the stage as INITIAL. b) For internal interfaces, authentication based on credentials alone (certificate, pre-shared key, etc.) can be considered as meeting INITIAL maturity level. | A1 ASSET-C-13 ASSET-C-20 ASSET-C-55 ASSET-C-56 | REQ-SEC-SMO-1 REQ-SEC-A1-2 | No gap |  |
| Access Management (Authorization) | The system authorizes access, including for privileged access requests, that expires with automated review.  a) This function applies to APIs and user access. b) For applications, static role assignments (e.g. role binding of a service account) with ephemeral tokens can be considered as INITIAL stage. | rApp Identity Pillar Assets |  |  |  |
| Access Management (Authorization) | The system authorizes access, including for privileged access requests, that expires with automated review.  a) This function applies to APIs and user access. b) For applications, static role assignments (e.g. role binding of a service account) with ephemeral tokens can be considered as INITIAL stage. | ASSET-C-10 | REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-2 REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-3 REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-8 SEC-CTL-NonRTRIC-4 SEC-CTL- NonRTRIC-5 SEC-CTL- NonRTRIC-6 | Partial gap | There are no requirements that govern the communication when rApp is the service producer. |
| Access Management (Authorization) | The system authorizes access, including for privileged access requests, that expires with automated review.  a) This function applies to APIs and user access. b) For applications, static role assignments (e.g. role binding of a service account) with ephemeral tokens can be considered as INITIAL stage. | ASSET-C-12 | REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-2 REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-3 REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-8 SEC-CTL-NonRTRIC-4 SEC-CTL- NonRTRIC-5 SEC-CTL- NonRTRIC-6 | Partial gap | There are no requirements that govern the communication when rApp is the service producer. |
| Access Management (Authorization) | The system authorizes access, including for privileged access requests, that expires with automated review.  a) This function applies to APIs and user access. b) For applications, static role assignments (e.g. role binding of a service account) with ephemeral tokens can be considered as INITIAL stage. | Non-RT RIC Identity Pillar Assets |  |  |  |
| Access Management (Authorization) | The system authorizes access, including for privileged access requests, that expires with automated review.  a) This function applies to APIs and user access. b) For applications, static role assignments (e.g. role binding of a service account) with ephemeral tokens can be considered as INITIAL stage. | rApp Management ASSET-C-47 | REQ-SEC-SMO-3 REQ-SEC-SMO-4 REQ-SEC-SMO-Internal-2 REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-1 REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-2 REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-3 REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-8 | No gap |  |
| Access Management (Authorization) | The system authorizes access, including for privileged access requests, that expires with automated review.  a) This function applies to APIs and user access. b) For applications, static role assignments (e.g. role binding of a service account) with ephemeral tokens can be considered as INITIAL stage. | R1 ASSET-C-15 ASSET-C-48 | REQ-SEC-SMO-3 REQ-SEC-SMO-4 REQ-SEC-SMO-Internal-2 REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-1 REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-2 REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-3 REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-8 | No gap |  |
| Access Management (Authorization) | The system authorizes access, including for privileged access requests, that expires with automated review.  a) This function applies to APIs and user access. b) For applications, static role assignments (e.g. role binding of a service account) with ephemeral tokens can be considered as INITIAL stage. | A1 ASSET-C-13 ASSET-C-20 ASSET-C-55 ASSET-C-56 | REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-1 SEC-CTL-NonRTRIC-1 SEC-CTL-NonRTRIC-2 REQ-SEC-A1-1 REQ-SEC-A1-3 | No gap |  |

#### rApp and Non-RT RIC Networks Pillar Analysis

##### rApp Networks Pillar Assets

- No asset(s) applicable to this specific pillar.

##### Non-RT RIC Networks Pillar Assets

The applicable assets defined in the WG11 O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment [i.4] are as follows:

- ASSET-C-14: A1 interface, including protocol stack
- ASSET-C-16: R1 interface, including protocol stack.
- ASSET-C-62: SMOS Communication

##### rApp and Non-RT RIC Networks Pillar Gap Analysis

| Networks ZT Function | Guidance to reach initial stage | Asset(s) | Existing Requirements mapped to CISA stage | Assessed Gap to Initial CISA Stage | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Traffic Encryption | Encryption for all internal (and preferably external) application traffic, with formalized key management policies and secure encryption keys. | Non-RT RIC Networks Pillar Assets |  |  |  |
| Traffic Encryption | Encryption for all internal (and preferably external) application traffic, with formalized key management policies and secure encryption keys. | ASSET-C-14 | REQ-SEC-A1-1 | No gap |  |
| Traffic Encryption | Encryption for all internal (and preferably external) application traffic, with formalized key management policies and secure encryption keys. | ASSET-C-16 | REQ-SEC-R1-1 | No gap |  |
| Traffic Encryption | Encryption for all internal (and preferably external) application traffic, with formalized key management policies and secure encryption keys. | ASSET-C-62 | REQ-SEC-SMO-Internal-1 REQ-SEC-SMO-External-1 REQ-SEC-NFO-FOCOM-1 REQ-TLS-FUN-1 REQ-TLS-FUN-3 REQ-SEC-O2-1 O-RAN Management Plane Specification clauses 5.4 & 6.5 [i.26] | No gap |  |

#### rApp and Non-RT RIC Devices Pillar Analysis

The Devices Pillar is out of scope for the gap analysis.

### A1 Interface Gap Analysis

#### A1 Interface Data Pillar Analysis

##### A1 Interface Data Pillar Assets

The applicable assets defined in the WG11 O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment [i.4] are as follows:

- ASSET-D-07: A1 policies that are provided to the near-RT RIC over the A1 interface.
- ASSET-D-08: A1 Enrichment Information.
- ASSET-D-16: X.509 certificates in O-RAN network such as those used for O-RAN components for authentication, encryption, and signing.
- ASSET-D-17: Security private keys in O-RAN network such as those used for O-RAN components for authentication, encryption, and signing.
- ASSET-D-25: Training or test data and associated labels: data sets collected externally or internally from the Near-RT RIC, O-CU and O-DU and passed to the ML training hosts in a ML system.
- ASSET-D-30: O-RAN specific several UE IDs.
The gap analysis for ASSET-D-16, ASSET-D-17, and ASSET-D-30 is detailed in clause 7.3.2.

##### A1 Interface Data Pillar Gap Analysis

| Data ZT Function | Guidance to Reach Initial Stage | Asset(s) | Existing Requirements Mapped to CISA Stage | Assessed Gap to Initial CISA Stage | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | A1 Interface Data Assets |  |  |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-07 | REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-5 REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-1 REQ-SEC-A1-2 SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-4 SEC-CTL-NonRTRIC-2 SEC-CTL-A1-2 SEC-CTL-A1-3 | No gap |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-08 | REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-5 REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-1 REQ-SEC-A1-2 SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-5 SEC-CTL-NonRTRIC-1 SEC-CTL-A1-2 SEC-CTL-A1-3 | No gap |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-16 | SEC-CTL-A1-3 | No gap | Gap resolved by new requirements added after initial analysis |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-17 | SEC-CTL-A1-3 | No gap | Gap resolved by new requirements added after initial analysis |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-25 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-11 SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-1 | No gap |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-30 | SEC-CTL-A1-3 | No gap | Gap resolved by new requirements added after initial analysis |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | A1 Interface Data Assets |  |  |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-07 | REQ-SEC-A1-1 SEC-CTL-A1-1 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-08 | REQ-SEC-A1-1 SEC-CTL-A1-1 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-16 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-13 SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-2 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-17 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-13 SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-2 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | Asset-D-25 (included in app package) | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-11 SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-1 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-25 (excluded from app package) | REQ-SEC-A1-1 SEC-CTL-A1-1 | No gap | Gap resolved as requirements were identified after initial analysis |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-30 | REQ-SEC-A1-1 SEC-CTL-A1-1 | No gap | Gap resolved as requirements were identified after initial analysis |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | a) Utilizes data inventory management, data categorization, data encryption, and access attempts information with some automated analysis and correlation to obtain visibility. | A1 Interface Data Assets |  |  |  |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | a) Utilizes data inventory management, data categorization, data encryption, and access attempts information with some automated analysis and correlation to obtain visibility. | ASSET-D-07 ASSET-D-08 ASSET-D-16 ASSET-D-17 ASSET-D-25 ASSET-D-30 | REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-1 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-2 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-3 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-6 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-7 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-8 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-5 | Partial gap | This is a partial gap, as the listed requirements address logging for data encryption and access attempts information. However, there are no requirements for providing information for: Data inventory management Data categorization. Creating and providing the required information is. within scope. However, the collection, analysis, and correlation of this information to achieve visibility are considered out of scope for O-RAN. As specified in [i.31], SIEM is not within the O-RAN Alliance's scope and is not defined by the O-RAN Alliance. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | a) Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | A1 Interface Data Assets |  |  |  |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | a) Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-07 ASSET-D-08 ASSET-D-16 ASSET-D-17 ASSET-D-25 ASSET-D-30 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |

#### A1 Interface Applications and Workloads Pillar

##### A1 Interface Applications and Workloads Pillar Assets

- No asset(s) applicable to this specific pillar.

#### A1 Interface Identity Pillar Analysis

##### A1 Interface Identity Pillar Assets

- No asset(s) applicable to this specific pillar.

#### A1 Interface Networks Pillar Analysis

##### A1 Interface Networks Pillar Assets

The applicable assets defined in the WG11 O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment [i.4] are as follows:

- ASSET-C-14: A1 interface, including protocol stack.

##### A1 Interface Networks Pillar Gap Analysis

| Networks ZT Function | Guidance to Reach Initial Stage | Asset(s) | Existing Requirements Mapped to CISA Stage | Assessed Gap to Initial CISA Stage | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Traffic Encryption | Encryption for all internal (and preferably external) application traffic, with formalized key management policies and secure encryption keys. | A1 Networks Pillar Assets |  |  |  |
| Traffic Encryption | Encryption for all internal (and preferably external) application traffic, with formalized key management policies and secure encryption keys. | ASSET-C-14 | REQ-SEC-A1-1 SEC-CTL-A1-1 | No gap |  |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | a) Utilize network monitoring capabilities based on known indicators of compromise, including network enumeration, to develop situational awareness in each environment. b) Commence correlating telemetry across traffic types and environments to facilitate analysis and threat hunting activities. | A1 Networks Pillar Assets |  |  |  |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | a) Utilize network monitoring capabilities based on known indicators of compromise, including network enumeration, to develop situational awareness in each environment. b) Commence correlating telemetry across traffic types and environments to facilitate analysis and threat hunting activities. | ASSET-C-14 | None | Gap | No requirements for providing network monitoring information. Providing the required information is within scope. However, the collection, analysis, and correlation of this information to achieve visibility are considered out of scope for O-RAN. As specified in [i.31], SIEM is not within the O-RAN Alliance's scope and is not defined by the O-RAN Alliance. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | a) Initiate the use of automated methods to manage the configuration and lifecycle of resources within specific networks or environments. b) Ensure that all resources have a defined lifetime determined by policies and telemetry data. | A1 Interface Data Assets |  |  |  |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | a) Initiate the use of automated methods to manage the configuration and lifecycle of resources within specific networks or environments. b) Ensure that all resources have a defined lifetime determined by policies and telemetry data. | ASSET-C-14 | None | Gap | Out of scope, network resource configuration and lifecycle management fall under the operator’s responsibilities. |

#### A1 Interface Devices Pillar Analysis

##### A1 Interface Devices Pillar Assets

- No asset(s) applicable to this specific pillar.

### R1 Interface Gap Analysis

#### R1 Interface Data Pillar Analysis

##### R1 Interface Data Pillar Assets

- Data transported over the R1 Interface.

##### R1 Interface Data Pillar Gap Analysis

| Data ZT Function | Guidance to Reach Initial Stage | Asset(s) | Existing Requirements Mapped to CISA Stage | Assessed Gap to Initial CISA Stage | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | R1 Interface Data Assets |  |  |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | Data transported over the R1 Interface. | REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-2 REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-3 REQ-SEC-R1-2 SEC-CTL-NonRTRIC-4 SEC-CTL-NonRTRIC-5 SEC-CTL-NonRTRIC-6 SEC-CTL-R1-2 SEC-CTL-R1-3 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | R1 Interface Data Assets |  |  |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | Data transported over the R1 Interface. | REQ-SEC-R1-1 SEC-CTL-R1-1 | No gap |  |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | a) Utilizes data inventory management, data categorization, data encryption, and access attempts information with some automated analysis and correlation to obtain visibility. | R1 Interface Data Assets |  |  |  |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | a) Utilizes data inventory management, data categorization, data encryption, and access attempts information with some automated analysis and correlation to obtain visibility. | Data Transported over the R1 Interface | REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-1 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-2 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-3 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-6 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-7 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-8 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-5 | Partial gap | This is a partial gap, as the listed requirements address logging for data encryption and access attempts information. However, there are no requirements for providing information for: Data inventory management Data categorization. Creating and providing the required information is. within scope. However, the collection, analysis, and correlation of this information to achieve visibility are considered out of scope for O-RAN. As specified in [i.31], SIEM is not within the O-RAN Alliance's scope and is not defined by the O-RAN Alliance. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | a) Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | R1 Interface Data Assets |  |  |  |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | a) Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | Data Transported over the R1 Interface | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |

#### R1 Interface Applications and Workloads Pillar Analysis

##### R1 Applications and Workloads Pillar Assets

- No asset(s) applicable to this specific pillar.

#### R1 Interface Identity Pillar Analysis

##### R1 Identity Pillar Assets

- No asset(s) applicable to this specific pillar.

#### R1 Interface Networks Pillar Analysis

##### R1 Interface Networks Pillar Assets

The applicable assets defined in the WG11 O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment [i.4] are as follows:

- ASSET-C-16: R1 interface, including protocol stack.

##### R1 Interface Networks Pillar Gap Analysis

| Networks ZT Function | Guidance to Reach Initial Stage | Asset(s) | Existing Requirements Mapped to CISA Stage | Assessed Gap to Initial CISA Stage | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Traffic Encryption | Encryption for all internal (and preferably external) application traffic, with formalized key management policies and secure encryption keys. | R1 Networks Pillar Assets |  |  |  |
| Traffic Encryption | Encryption for all internal (and preferably external) application traffic, with formalized key management policies and secure encryption keys. | ASSET-C-16 | REQ-SEC-R1-1 SEC-CTL-R1-1 | No gap |  |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | a) Utilize network monitoring capabilities based on known indicators of compromise, including network enumeration, to develop situational awareness in each environment. b) Commence correlating telemetry across traffic types and environments to facilitate analysis and threat hunting activities. | R1 Networks Pillar Assets |  |  |  |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | a) Utilize network monitoring capabilities based on known indicators of compromise, including network enumeration, to develop situational awareness in each environment. b) Commence correlating telemetry across traffic types and environments to facilitate analysis and threat hunting activities. | ASSET-C-16 | None | Gap | No requirements for providing network monitoring information. Providing the required information is within scope. However, the collection, analysis, and correlation of this information to achieve visibility are considered out of scope for O-RAN. As specified in [i.31], SIEM is not within the O-RAN Alliance's scope and is not defined by the O-RAN Alliance. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | a) Initiate the use of automated methods to manage the configuration and lifecycle of resources within specific networks or environments. b) Ensure that all resources have a defined lifetime determined by policies and telemetry data. | R1 Networks Pillar Assets |  |  |  |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | a) Initiate the use of automated methods to manage the configuration and lifecycle of resources within specific networks or environments. b) Ensure that all resources have a defined lifetime determined by policies and telemetry data. | ASSET-C-16 | None | Gap | Out of scope, network resource configuration and lifecycle management fall under the operator’s responsibilities. |

#### R1 Interface Devices Pillar Analysis

##### R1 Interface Devices Pillar Assets

- No asset(s) applicable to this specific pillar.

### SMO Gap Analysis

#### SMO Data Pillar Analysis

##### SMO Data Pillar Assets

The applicable assets defined in the WG11 O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment [i.4] are as follows:

- ASSET-D-02: Critical Management-Plane data transported over the Fronthaul interface such as: maintenance and monitoring signals, data collected related to O-RU operations, logs (troubleshooting, trace)
- ASSET-D-03: Critical Management-Plane data transported over the O1 interface
- ASSET-D-12: (1) The Physical Infrastructure (O-Cloud Node Identifier, Pool Identifier, Pool Location Identifier, and Use Identifier) used to create the O-Cloud. (2) The logical Clouds which it provides as interfaces for deployments, and the inventory of deployments (deployment ID and descriptor) on the cloud. (3) O-Cloud ID, IP address, IMS address, the IP address endpoint or url of the SMO and any necessary security keys or passwords for communication using O2. (4) DMS capabilities. (5) O-Cloud (IMS): List of all Resource Pools in the O-Cloud, attributes of a specific O-Cloud, list of all resources of an O-Cloud Pool, attributes of each O-Cloud Resource, list of all DMS. (6) O-Cloud (DMS): list of locations supported for a given location the capabilities supported (e.g. Descriptor types, Technology types, Accelerator types), for a given location the capacity of the location, for a given location the availability of the location.
- ASSET-D-13: -(1) Telemetry information of O-Cloud deployments in the network for analyzing the O-Cloud’s state and health, and for delivering on service monitoring goals. It consists of fault, performance and configuration data. (2) Deployment Telemetry to monitor the number of deployment instances an O-Cloud has at that moment and how many were expected, how the on-progress deployment is going, and health checks.  Additional Deployment Telemetry metrics like CPU, network, and memory usage can also be collected. (3) Infrastructure Telemetry to monitor the health of the O-Cloud Infrastructure components. Network Operations are interested in discovering if all the components in the O-Cloud Infrastructure are working properly and at what capacity, how many deployments are running on each node, and the resource utilization of the O-Cloud Infrastructure.
- ASSET-D-14: (1) O-Cloud Provisioning information (Affinity, Anti-Affinity, Quorum Diversity Rules, capabilities, capacity and availability.) (2) O-Cloud software management information: catalog of authorized software and its version, list of authorized VNF/CNF, VNF/CNF description files.
- ASSET-D-16: X.509 certificates.
- ASSET-D-17: Private keys
- ASSET-D-18: O-RAN components associated and configuration data.
- ASSET-D-20: Credentials (Administrators) – account information and passwords on SMO.
- ASSET-D-23: Patches for vulnerable SW components
- ASSET-D-24: NETCONF Configuration Access Control Model datastores
- ASSET-D-29: Security event log files generated by O-RAN components
- ASSET-D-30: O-RAN specific UE IDs
- ASSET-D-31: Security telemetry from the NFV system for detecting threats and anomalies
- ASSET-D-32: Cryptographic keys used during secure boot, for encryption/decryption, etc.
- ASSET-D-40: ML models that have not been trained yet, i.e., Initial Models and their associated learning algorithm.

##### SMO Data Pillar Gap Analysis

| Data ZT Function | Guidance to reach initial stage | Asset(s) | Existing Requirements mapped to CISA stage | Assessed Gap to Initial CISA Stage | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | SMO Data Assets |  |  |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | M-Plane ASSET-D-02 ASSET-D-03 | REQ-SEC-SMO-1 REQ-SEC-SMO-2 REQ-SEC-SMO-3 REQ-SEC-SMO-4 REQ-SEC-SMO-Internal-2 REQ-SEC-SMO-External-2 REQ-SEC-SMO-External-3 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 O-RAN Management Plane Specification clauses 5.4 & 6.5 [i.26] REQ-SEC-SharedORU-1 REQ-SEC-SharedORU-2 | Partial gap | No requirements for automated data access control and least privilege for internal SMO/SMOS communication |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | O-Cloud Assets ASSET-D-12 | REQ-SEC-SMO-1 REQ-SEC-SMO-2 REQ-SEC-SMO-3 REQ-SEC-SMO-4 REQ-SEC-SMO-Internal-2 REQ-SEC-SMO-External-2 REQ-SEC-SMO-External-3 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 | Partial gap | No requirements for automated data access control and least privilege for internal SMO/SMOS communication |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | O-Cloud Telemetry & Provisioning ASSET-D-13 ASSET-D-14 | REQ-SEC-SMO-1 REQ-SEC-SMO-2 REQ-SEC-SMO-3 REQ-SEC-SMO-4 REQ-SEC-SMO-Internal-2 REQ-SEC-SMO-External-2 REQ-SEC-SMO-External-3 REQ-SEC-NFO-FOCOM-3 REQ-SEC-NFO-FOCOM-4 REQ-SEC-NFO-FOCOM-5 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 | Partial gap | No requirements for automated data access control and least privilege for internal SMO/SMOS communication |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | X.509 Certificates ASSET-D-16 | REQ-SEC-SMO-1 REQ-SEC-SMO-2 REQ-SEC-SMO-3 REQ-SEC-SMO-4 REQ-SEC-SMO-Internal-2 REQ-SEC-SMO-External-2 REQ-SEC-SMO-External-3 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 | Partial gap | No requirements for automated data access control and least privilege for internal SMO/SMOS communication |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | Private Keys ASSET-D-17 | REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-1 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-2 REQ-SEC-OCloud-ISO-1 REQ-SEC-OCloud-ISO-3 REQ-SEC-OCloud-ISO-7 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 | No gap |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | Architecture Element Data ASSET-D-18 ASSET-D-20 ASSET-D-31 | REQ-SEC-SMO-1 REQ-SEC-SMO-2 REQ-SEC-SMO-3 REQ-SEC-SMO-4 REQ-TLS-FUN-2 REQ-TLS-FUN-4 REQ-NAC-FUN-1 REQ-NAC-FUN-2 REQ-NAC-FUN-3 REQ-NAC-FUN-4 REQ-NAC-FUN-5 REQ-NAC-FUN-6 REQ-NAC-FUN-7 REQ-NAC-FUN-8 REQ-NAC-FUN-9 REQ-NAC-FUN-10 REQ-NAC-FUN-11 REQ-SEC-SMO-Internal-2 REQ-SEC-SMO-External-2 REQ-SEC-SMO-External-3 REQ-SEC-NFO-FOCOM-3 REQ-SEC-NFO-FOCOM-4 REQ-SEC-NFO-FOCOM-5 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 | Partial gap | No requirements for automated data access control and least privilege for internal SMO/SMOS communication |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | SW Packages ASSET-D-23 | REQ-SEC-SMO-1 REQ-SEC-SMO-2 REQ-SEC-SMO-3 REQ-SEC-SMO-4 REQ-TLS-FUN-2 REQ-TLS-FUN-4 REQ-NAC-FUN-1 REQ-NAC-FUN-2 REQ-NAC-FUN-3 REQ-NAC-FUN-4 REQ-NAC-FUN-5 REQ-NAC-FUN-6 REQ-NAC-FUN-7 REQ-NAC-FUN-8 REQ-NAC-FUN-9 REQ-NAC-FUN-10 REQ-NAC-FUN-11 REQ-SEC-SMO-Internal-2 REQ-SEC-SMO-External-2 REQ-SEC-NFO-FOCOM-3 REQ-SEC-NFO-FOCOM-4 REQ-SEC-NFO-FOCOM-5 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-10 REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-11 | Partial gap | No requirements for automated data access control and least privilege for internal SMO/SMOS communication |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | Non-O-Cloud Architecture Element Data ASSET-D-24 ASSET-D-30 ASSET-D-40 | REQ-SEC-SMO-1 REQ-SEC-SMO-2 REQ-SEC-SMO-3 REQ-SEC-SMO-4 REQ-TLS-FUN-2 REQ-TLS-FUN-4 REQ-NAC-FUN-1 REQ-NAC-FUN-2 REQ-NAC-FUN-3 REQ-NAC-FUN-4 REQ-NAC-FUN-5 REQ-NAC-FUN-6 REQ-NAC-FUN-7 REQ-NAC-FUN-8 REQ-NAC-FUN-9 REQ-NAC-FUN-10 REQ-NAC-FUN-11 REQ-SEC-SMO-Internal-1 REQ-SEC-SMO-External-2 REC-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 | Partial gap | No requirements for automated data access control and least privilege for internal SMO/SMOS communication |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | Log Files ASSET-D-29 | REQ-SEC-SMO-1 REQ-SEC-SMO-2 REQ-SEC-SMO-3 REQ-SEC-SMO-4 REQ-TLS-FUN-2 REQ-TLS-FUN-4 REQ-NAC-FUN-1 REQ-NAC-FUN-2 REQ-NAC-FUN-3 REQ-NAC-FUN-4 REQ-NAC-FUN-5 REQ-NAC-FUN-6 REQ-NAC-FUN-7 REQ-NAC-FUN-8 REQ-NAC-FUN-9 REQ-NAC-FUN-10 REQ-NAC-FUN-11 REQ-SEC-SMO-Internal-2 REQ-SEC-SMO-External-2 REQ-SEC-NFO-FOCOM-3 REQ-SEC-NFO-FOCOM-4 REQ-SEC-NFO-FOCOM-5 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 | Partial gap | No requirements for automated data access control and least privilege for internal SMO/SMOS communication |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | SMO Data Assets |  |  |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | M-Plane ASSET-D-02 ASSET-D-03 | REQ-SEC-SMO-Internal-1 REQ-SEC-SMO-External-1 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 REQ-SEC-SMO-8 REQ-SEC-SMOS-5 | No gap | Gap resolved by new requirements added after initial analysis |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | Data used by NFO/FOCOM ASSET-D-12 ASSET-D-13 ASSET-D-14 ASSET-D-18 ASSET-D-20 ASSET-D-29 ASSET-D-31 | REQ-SEC-SMO-Internal-1 REQ-SEC-SMO-External-1 REQ-SEC-NFO-FOCOM-1 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 REQ-SEC-SMO-8 REQ-SEC-SMOS-5 | No gap | Gap resolved by new requirements added after initial analysis |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | Data not used by NFO/FOCOM ASSET-D-16 ASSET-D-17 ASSET-D-24 ASSET-D-30 ASSET-D-40 | REQ-SEC-SMO-Internal-1 REQ-SEC-SMO-External-1 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 REQ-SEC-SMO-8 REQ-SEC-SMOS-5 | No gap | Gap resolved by new requirements added after initial analysis |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | SW Packages ASSET-D-23 | REQ-SEC-SMO-Internal-1 REQ-SEC-SMO-External-1 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-10 REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-11 REQ-SEC-SMO-8 REQ-SEC-SMOS-5 | No gap | Gap resolved by new requirements added after initial analysis |

#### SMO Application and Workloads Pillar

##### SMO Application and Workloads Pillar Assets

The applicable assets defined in the WG11 O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment [i.4] are as follows:

- ASSET-C-01: Logical module: Service Management and Orchestration (SMO)
- ASSET-C-17: SMO Framework/Platform
- ASSET-C-18: SMO Functions
- ASSET-C-21: Data Management and Exposure Functions
- ASSET-C-22: O1, including protocol stack
- ASSET-C-23: O2, including protocol stack
- ASSET-C-24: OFH M-Plane, including protocol stack
- ASSET-C-26: External interfaces
- ASSET-C-27: External interfaces termination at SMO Framework/Platform
- ASSET-C-38: SMO Host
- ASSET-C-39: SMO Tenant (Shared Resource Operator)
- ASSET-C-44: Service Management and Exposure (SME)
- ASSET-C-45: Data Management and Exposure (DME)
- ASSET-C-46: Topology Exposure and Inventory Management (TE&IM)
- ASSET-C-49: Network Function Orchestrator (NFO)
- ASSET-C-50: Federated O-Cloud Orchestration and Management (FOCOM)
- ASSET-C-51: RAN NF Fault Management (FM)
- ASSET-C-52: RAN NF Configuration Management (CM)
- ASSET-C-53: RAN NF Performance Management (PM)
- ASSET-C-57: SW Package Onboarding
- ASSET-C-58: Service Orchestration
- ASSET-C-62: SMOS Communication

##### SMO Application and Workloads Pillar Gap Analysis

| App/ Workloads ZT Function | Guidance to reach initial stage | Asset(s) | Existing Requirements mapped to CISA stage | Assessed Gap to Initial CISA Stage | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Application Access (Authorization) | a) Access authorization capabilities utilize contextual information such as identity, device compliance, and other attributes to make decisions on various requests for accessing application assets.  b) Authorization is granted per request with expiration. | SMO Application and Workloads Assets |  |  |  |
| Application Access (Authorization) | a) Access authorization capabilities utilize contextual information such as identity, device compliance, and other attributes to make decisions on various requests for accessing application assets.  b) Authorization is granted per request with expiration. | SMOS ASSET-C-01 ASSET-C-17 ASSET-C-18 ASSET-C-38 ASSET-C-39 ASSET-C-46 ASSET-C-57 ASSET-C-58 ASSET-C-62 | REQ-SEC-SMO-1 REQ-SEC-SMO-3 REQ-SEC-SMO-Internal-1 REQ-SEC-SMO-Internal-2 | Partial gap | No requirements for automated data access control and least privilege for SMOS to SMOS communication |
| Application Access (Authorization) | a) Access authorization capabilities utilize contextual information such as identity, device compliance, and other attributes to make decisions on various requests for accessing application assets.  b) Authorization is granted per request with expiration. | O1 ASSET-C-22 ASSET-C-51 ASSET-C-52 ASSET-C-53 | REQ-SEC-O1-2 REQ-SEC-O1-3 | Partial gap | No requirements for automated data access control and least privilege for SMOS to SMOS communication |
| Application Access (Authorization) | a) Access authorization capabilities utilize contextual information such as identity, device compliance, and other attributes to make decisions on various requests for accessing application assets.  b) Authorization is granted per request with expiration. | O2 ASSET-C-23 ASSET-C-49 ASSET-C-50 | REQ-SEC-O2-2  REQ-SEC-NFO-FOCOM-3 REQ-SEC-NFO-FOCOM-4 REQ-SEC-NFO-FOCOM-5 | Partial gap | No requirements for automated data access control and least privilege for SMOS to SMOS communication |
| Application Access (Authorization) | a) Access authorization capabilities utilize contextual information such as identity, device compliance, and other attributes to make decisions on various requests for accessing application assets.  b) Authorization is granted per request with expiration. | M-Plane  ASSET-C-24 | O-RAN Management Plane Specification clauses 5.4 & 6.5 [i.26] REQ-SEC-SharedORU-1 | Partial gap | No requirements for automated data access control and least privilege for SMOS to SMOS communication |
| Application Access (Authorization) | a) Access authorization capabilities utilize contextual information such as identity, device compliance, and other attributes to make decisions on various requests for accessing application assets.  b) Authorization is granted per request with expiration. | External Interface ASSET-C-21 ASSET-C-26 ASSET-C-27 ASSET-C-44 ASSET-C-45 | REQ-SEC-SMO-2 REQ-SEC-SMO-4 REQ-SEC-SMO-External-2 REQ-SEC-SMO-External-3 | Partial gap | No requirements for automated data access control and least privilege for SMOS to SMOS communication |
| Application Threat Protections | a) Threat protections is integrated into mission-critical application workflows.  b) Threat protections safeguard applications against known threats and address some application-specific threats. | SMO Applications and Workloads Assets |  |  |  |
| Application Threat Protections | a) Threat protections is integrated into mission-critical application workflows.  b) Threat protections safeguard applications against known threats and address some application-specific threats. | ASSET-C-17 ASSET-C-18 ASSET-C-21 ASSET-C-22 ASSET-C-23 ASSET-C-24 ASSET-C-26 ASSET-C-27 ASSET-C-38 ASSET-C-39 ASSET-C-44 ASSET-C-45 ASSET-C-46 ASSET-C-49 ASSET-C-50 ASSET-C-51 ASSET-C-52 ASSET-C-53 ASSET-C-57 ASSET-C-58 ASSET-C-62 | REQ-SEC-ALM-SU-2  REQ-SEC-ALM-SU-3 | No gap |  |
| Accessible Applications | a) Applicable mission-critical applications are available over open public network connections to authorized users as needed. | SMO Applications and Workloads Assets |  |  |  |
| Accessible Applications | a) Applicable mission-critical applications are available over open public network connections to authorized users as needed. | ASSET-C-17 ASSET-C-18 ASSET-C-21 ASSET-C-22 ASSET-C-23 ASSET-C-24 ASSET-C-26 ASSET-C-27 ASSET-C-38 ASSET-C-39 ASSET-C-44 ASSET-C-45 ASSET-C-46 ASSET-C-49 ASSET-C-50 ASSET-C-51 ASSET-C-52 ASSET-C-53 ASSET-C-57 ASSET-C-58 ASSET-C-62 | None | Gap | Out of scope for O-RAN No identified Mission critical applications |
| Secure Application  Development and  Deployment Workflow  (New Function) | a) Infrastructure for development, testing, and production environments (including automation).  b) Formal code deployment mechanisms through CI/CD pipelines.  c) Access controls support least privilege principles. | SMO Applications and Workloads Assets |  |  |  |
| Secure Application  Development and  Deployment Workflow  (New Function) | a) Infrastructure for development, testing, and production environments (including automation).  b) Formal code deployment mechanisms through CI/CD pipelines.  c) Access controls support least privilege principles. | ASSET-C-17 ASSET-C-18 ASSET-C-21 ASSET-C-22 ASSET-C-23 ASSET-C-24 ASSET-C-26 ASSET-C-27 ASSET-C-38 ASSET-C-39 ASSET-C-44 ASSET-C-45 ASSET-C-46 ASSET-C-49 ASSET-C-50 ASSET-C-51 ASSET-C-52 ASSET-C-53 ASSET-C-57 ASSET-C-58 ASSET-C-62 | None | Gap | Out of scope for O-RAN Securing infrastructure for development, testing, and production environments is out of scope for O-RAN. |
| Application Security  Testing (Formerly  Application Security) | a) Utilization of static and dynamic testing methods for security testing.  b) Performance of security testing including manual expert analysis before application deployment. | SMO Applications and Workloads Assets |  |  |  |
| Application Security  Testing (Formerly  Application Security) | a) Utilization of static and dynamic testing methods for security testing.  b) Performance of security testing including manual expert analysis before application deployment. | ASSET-C-17 ASSET-C-18 ASSET-C-21 ASSET-C-22 ASSET-C-23 ASSET-C-24 ASSET-C-26 ASSET-C-27 ASSET-C-38 ASSET-C-39 ASSET-C-44 ASSET-C-45 ASSET-C-46 ASSET-C-49 ASSET-C-50 ASSET-C-51 ASSET-C-52 ASSET-C-53 ASSET-C-57 ASSET-C-58 ASSET-C-62 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-1 REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-7b | No gap | Guidance (b) is out of scope for O-RAN. |

#### SMO Identity Pillar

##### SMO Identity Pillar Assets

The applicable assets defined in the WG11 O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment [i.4] are as follows:

- ASSET-C-01: Logical module: Service Management and Orchestration (SMO)
- ASSET-C-17: SMO Framework/Platform
- ASSET-C-18: SMO Functions
- ASSET-C-21: Data Management and Exposure Functions
- ASSET-C-22: O1, including protocol stack
- ASSET-C-23: O2, including protocol stack
- ASSET-C-24: OFH M-Plane, including protocol stack
- ASSET-C-26: External interfaces
- ASSET-C-27: External interfaces termination at SMO Framework/Platform
- ASSET-C-38: SMO Host
- ASSET-C-39: SMO Tenant (Shared Resource Operator)
- ASSET-C-44: Service Management and Exposure (SME)
- ASSET-C-45: Data Management and Exposure (DME)
- ASSET-C-46: Topology Exposure and Inventory Management (TE&IM)
- ASSET-C-49: Network Function Orchestrator (NFO)
- ASSET-C-50: Federated O-Cloud Orchestration and Management (FOCOM)
- ASSET-C-51: RAN NF Fault Management (FM)
- ASSET-C-52: RAN NF Configuration Management (CM)
- ASSET-C-53: RAN NF Performance Management (PM)
- ASSET-C-57: SW Package Onboarding
- ASSET-C-58: Service Orchestration
- ASSET-C-62: SMOS Communication

##### SMO Identity Pillar Gap Analysis

| Identity ZT Function | Guidance to Reach Initial Stage | Asset(s) | Existing Requirements Mapped to CISA Stage | Assessed Gap to Initial CISA Stage | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Authentication | The system authenticates identity using MFA, which may include passwords as one factor and requires validation of multiple entity attributes (e.g., locale or activity). a) If there is mutual authentication for internal communications, we consider the stage as INITIAL. b) For internal interfaces, authentication based on credentials alone (certificate, pre-shared key, etc.) can be considered as meeting INITIAL maturity level. | SMO Identity Pillar Assets |  |  |  |
| Authentication | The system authenticates identity using MFA, which may include passwords as one factor and requires validation of multiple entity attributes (e.g., locale or activity). a) If there is mutual authentication for internal communications, we consider the stage as INITIAL. b) For internal interfaces, authentication based on credentials alone (certificate, pre-shared key, etc.) can be considered as meeting INITIAL maturity level. | SMOS ASSET-C-01 ASSET-C-17 ASSET-C-18 ASSET-C-38 ASSET-C-39 ASSET-C-46 ASSET-C-57 ASSET-C-58 ASSET-C-62 | REQ-SEC-SMO-1 REQ-SEC-SMO-Internal-2 REQ-SEC-SharedORU-1 | No gap |  |
| Authentication | The system authenticates identity using MFA, which may include passwords as one factor and requires validation of multiple entity attributes (e.g., locale or activity). a) If there is mutual authentication for internal communications, we consider the stage as INITIAL. b) For internal interfaces, authentication based on credentials alone (certificate, pre-shared key, etc.) can be considered as meeting INITIAL maturity level. | O1 ASSET-C-22 ASSET-C-51 ASSET-C-52 ASSET-C-53 | REQ-TLS-FUN-2 REQ-TLS-FUN-3 | No gap |  |
| Authentication | The system authenticates identity using MFA, which may include passwords as one factor and requires validation of multiple entity attributes (e.g., locale or activity). a) If there is mutual authentication for internal communications, we consider the stage as INITIAL. b) For internal interfaces, authentication based on credentials alone (certificate, pre-shared key, etc.) can be considered as meeting INITIAL maturity level. | O2 ASSET-C-23 ASSET-C-49 ASSET-C-50 | REQ-SEC-NFO-FOCOM-3 REQ-SEC-NFO-FOCOM-4 | No gap |  |
| Authentication | The system authenticates identity using MFA, which may include passwords as one factor and requires validation of multiple entity attributes (e.g., locale or activity). a) If there is mutual authentication for internal communications, we consider the stage as INITIAL. b) For internal interfaces, authentication based on credentials alone (certificate, pre-shared key, etc.) can be considered as meeting INITIAL maturity level. | M-Plane  ASSET-C-24 | O-RAN Management Plane Specification clauses 5.4 & 6.5 [i.26] REQ-SEC-SharedORU-1 | No gap |  |
| Authentication | The system authenticates identity using MFA, which may include passwords as one factor and requires validation of multiple entity attributes (e.g., locale or activity). a) If there is mutual authentication for internal communications, we consider the stage as INITIAL. b) For internal interfaces, authentication based on credentials alone (certificate, pre-shared key, etc.) can be considered as meeting INITIAL maturity level. | External Interface ASSET-C-21 ASSET-C-26 ASSET-C-27 ASSET-C-44 ASSET-C-45 | REQ-SEC-SMO-2 | No gap |  |
| Access Management (Authorization) | The system authorizes access, including for privileged access requests, that expires with automated review.  a) This function applies to APIs and user access. b) For applications, static role assignments (e.g. role binding of a service account) with ephemeral tokens can be considered as INITIAL stage. | SMO Identity Pillar Assets |  |  |  |
| Access Management (Authorization) | The system authorizes access, including for privileged access requests, that expires with automated review.  a) This function applies to APIs and user access. b) For applications, static role assignments (e.g. role binding of a service account) with ephemeral tokens can be considered as INITIAL stage. | SMOS ASSET-C-01 ASSET-C-17 ASSET-C-18 ASSET-C-38 ASSET-C-39 ASSET-C-46 ASSET-C-57 ASSET-C-58 ASSET-C-62 | REQ-SEC-SMO-3 REQ-SEC-SMO-4 REQ-SEC-SMO-Internal-2 REQ-SEC-SharedORU-2 | No gap |  |
| Access Management (Authorization) | The system authorizes access, including for privileged access requests, that expires with automated review.  a) This function applies to APIs and user access. b) For applications, static role assignments (e.g. role binding of a service account) with ephemeral tokens can be considered as INITIAL stage. | O1 ASSET-C-22 ASSET-C-51 ASSET-C-52 ASSET-C-53 | REQ-NAC-FUN-1 REQ-NAC-FUN-2 REQ-NAC-FUN-3 REQ-NAC-FUN-4 REQ-NAC-FUN-5 REQ-NAC-FUN-6 REQ-NAC-FUN-7 REQ-NAC-FUN-8 REQ-NAC-FUN-9 REQ-NAC-FUN-10 REQ-NAC-FUN-11 | No gap |  |
| Access Management (Authorization) | The system authorizes access, including for privileged access requests, that expires with automated review.  a) This function applies to APIs and user access. b) For applications, static role assignments (e.g. role binding of a service account) with ephemeral tokens can be considered as INITIAL stage. | O2 ASSET-C-23 ASSET-C-49 ASSET-C-50 | REQ-SEC-NFO-FOCOM-5 | No gap |  |
| Access Management (Authorization) | The system authorizes access, including for privileged access requests, that expires with automated review.  a) This function applies to APIs and user access. b) For applications, static role assignments (e.g. role binding of a service account) with ephemeral tokens can be considered as INITIAL stage. | M-Plane ASSET-C-24 | O-RAN Management Plane Specification clauses 5.4 & 6.5 [i.26] REQ-SEC-SharedORU-2 | No gap |  |
| Access Management (Authorization) | The system authorizes access, including for privileged access requests, that expires with automated review.  a) This function applies to APIs and user access. b) For applications, static role assignments (e.g. role binding of a service account) with ephemeral tokens can be considered as INITIAL stage. | External Interface ASSET-C-21 ASSET-C-26 ASSET-C-27 ASSET-C-44 ASSET-C-45 | REQ-SEC-OCloud-ISO-7 | No gap |  |

#### SMO Networks Pillar

##### SMO Networks Pillar Assets

The applicable assets and components defined in the WG11 O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment [i.4] and WG1 O-RAN Architecture Description [i.1]:

- ASSET-C-22: O1, including protocol stack
- ASSET-C-23: O2, including protocol stack
- ASSET-C-24: OFH M-Plane, including protocol stack
- ASSET-C-26: External interfaces
- ASSET-C-27: External interfaces termination at SMO Framework/Platform
- ASSET-C-62: SMOS Communication

##### SMO Networks Pillar Gap Analysis

| Data ZT Function | Guidance to reach initial stage | Asset(s) | Existing Requirements mapped to CISA stage | Assessed Gap to Initial CISA Stage | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Traffic Encryption | Encryption for all internal (and preferably external) application traffic, with formalized key management policies and secure encryption keys. | SMO Networks Pillar Assets |  |  |  |
| Traffic Encryption | Encryption for all internal (and preferably external) application traffic, with formalized key management policies and secure encryption keys. | ASSET-C-22 ASSET-C-23 ASSET-C-24 ASSET-C-26 ASSET-C-27 ASSET-C-62 | REQ-SEC-SMO-Internal-1 REQ-SEC-SMO-External-1 REQ-SEC-NFO-FOCOM-1 REQ-TLS-FUN-1 REQ-TLS-FUN-3 REQ-SEC-O2-1 O-RAN Management Plane Specification clauses 5.4 & 6.5 [i.26] | No gap |  |

#### SMO Devices Pillar

##### SMO Devices Pillar Assets

- No assets applicable to devices pillar

##### SMO Devices Pillar Gap Analysis

The Devices Pillar is out of scope for the gap analysis.

### O1 Interface Gap Analysis

#### O1 Interface Data Pillar Analysis

##### O1 Interface Data Pillar Assets

The applicable assets defined in the WG11 O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment [i.4] are as follows:

ASSET-D-03: Critical Management-Plane data transported over the O1 interface

ASSET-D-16: X.509 certificates.

ASSET-D-17: Private keys

ASSET-D-18: O-RAN components associated and configuration data.

ASSET-D-23: Patches for vulnerable SW components

ASSET-D-24: NETCONF Configuration Access Control Model datastores

##### O1 Interface Data Pillar Gap Analysis

| Data ZT Function | Guidance to reach initial stage | Asset(s) | Existing Requirements mapped to CISA stage | Assessed Gap to Initial CISA Stage | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | O1 Interface Data Assets |  |  |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-3 | REQ-TLS-FUN-2 REQ-TLS-FUN-4 REQ-NAC-FUN-1 REQ-NAC-FUN-2 REQ-NAC-FUN-3 REQ-NAC-FUN-4 REQ-NAC-FUN-5 REQ-NAC-FUN-6 REQ-NAC-FUN-7 REQ-NAC-FUN-8 REQ-NAC-FUN-9 REQ-NAC-FUN-10 REQ-NAC-FUN-11 | No gap |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-16 | REQ-TLS-FUN-2 REQ-TLS-FUN-4 REQ-NAC-FUN-1 REQ-NAC-FUN-2 REQ-NAC-FUN-3 REQ-NAC-FUN-4 REQ-NAC-FUN-5 REQ-NAC-FUN-6 REQ-NAC-FUN-7 REQ-NAC-FUN-8 REQ-NAC-FUN-9 REQ-NAC-FUN-10 REQ-NAC-FUN-11 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-SS-1 | No gap |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-17 | REQ-TLS-FUN-2 REQ-TLS-FUN-4 REQ-NAC-FUN-1 REQ-NAC-FUN-2 REQ-NAC-FUN-3 REQ-NAC-FUN-4 REQ-NAC-FUN-5 REQ-NAC-FUN-6 REQ-NAC-FUN-7 REQ-NAC-FUN-8 REQ-NAC-FUN-9 REQ-NAC-FUN-10 REQ-NAC-FUN-11 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-SS-1 | No gap |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-18 | REQ-TLS-FUN-2 REQ-TLS-FUN-4 REQ-NAC-FUN-1 REQ-NAC-FUN-2 REQ-NAC-FUN-3 REQ-NAC-FUN-4 REQ-NAC-FUN-5 REQ-NAC-FUN-6 REQ-NAC-FUN-7 REQ-NAC-FUN-8 REQ-NAC-FUN-9 REQ-NAC-FUN-10 REQ-NAC-FUN-11 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-SS-1 | No gap |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-23 | REQ-TLS-FUN-2 REQ-TLS-FUN-4 REQ-NAC-FUN-1 REQ-NAC-FUN-2 REQ-NAC-FUN-3 REQ-NAC-FUN-4 REQ-NAC-FUN-5 REQ-NAC-FUN-6 REQ-NAC-FUN-7 REQ-NAC-FUN-8 REQ-NAC-FUN-9 REQ-NAC-FUN-10 REQ-NAC-FUN-11 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-SS-1 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | O1 Interface Data Assets |  |  |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-3 | REQ-TLS-FUN-1 REQ-TLS-FUN-3 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-SS-1 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-16 | REQ-TLS-FUN-1 REQ-TLS-FUN-3 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-SS-1 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-17 | REQ-SEC-E2-1 SEC-CTL-E2-1 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-SS-1 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-18 | REQ-SEC-E2-1 SEC-CTL-E2-1 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-SS-1 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-23 | REQ-SEC-E2-1 SEC-CTL-E2-1 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-SS-1 | No gap |  |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | Utilizes data inventory management, data categorization, data encryption, and access attempts information with some automated analysis and correlation to obtain visibility | O1 interface Data Assets |  |  |  |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | Utilizes data inventory management, data categorization, data encryption, and access attempts information with some automated analysis and correlation to obtain visibility | ASSET-D-03 ASSET-D-16 ASSET-D-17 ASSET-D-18 ASSET-D-23 ASSET-D-24 | REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-1 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-2 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-3 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-6 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-7 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-8 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-5 | Partial gap | This is a partial gap, as the listed requirements address logging for data encryption and access attempts information. However, there are no requirements for providing information for: Data inventory management Data categorization. Creating and providing the required information is within scope. However, the collection, analysis, and correlation of this information to achieve visibility are considered out of scope for O-RAN. As specified in [i.31], SIEM is not within the O-RAN Alliance's scope and is not defined by the O-RAN Alliance. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | O1 interface Data Assets |  |  |  |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-03 ASSET-D-16 ASSET-D-17 ASSET-D-18 ASSET-D-23 ASSET-D-24 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |

#### O1 Interface Application and Workloads Pillar

##### O1 Interface Application and Workloads Pillar Assets

- No assets applicable to application and workloads pillar

##### O1 Interface Application and Workloads Pillar Gap Analysis

- No gap analysis applies since there are no assets applicable to specific pillar

#### O1 Interface Identity Pillar

##### O1 Interface Identity Pillar Assets

- No asset applicable to specific pillar

##### O1 Interface Identity Pillar Gap Analysis

- No gap analysis applies since there are no assets applicable to specific pillar

#### O1 Interface Networks Pillar

##### O1 Interface Networks Pillar Assets

The applicable assets and components defined in the WG11 O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment [i.4]:

- ASSET-C-22: O1, including protocol stack

##### O1 Interface Networks Pillar Gap Analysis

| Networks ZT Function | Guidance to reach initial stage | Asset(s) | Existing Requirements mapped to CISA stage | Assessed Gap to Initial CISA Stage | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Traffic Encryption | Encryption for all internal (and preferably external) application traffic, with formalized key management policies and secure encryption keys. | O1 Networks Pillar Assets |  |  |  |
| Traffic Encryption | Encryption for all internal (and preferably external) application traffic, with formalized key management policies and secure encryption keys. | ASSET-C-22 | REQ-TLS-FUN-1 | No gap |  |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | Utilize network monitoring capabilities based on known indicators of compromise, including network enumeration, to develop situational awareness in each environment. Commence correlating telemetry across traffic types and environments to facilitate analysis and threat hunting activities. | O1 interface Networks Pillar Assets |  |  |  |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | Utilize network monitoring capabilities based on known indicators of compromise, including network enumeration, to develop situational awareness in each environment. Commence correlating telemetry across traffic types and environments to facilitate analysis and threat hunting activities. | ASSET-C-22 | None | Gap | No requirements for providing network monitoring information. Providing the required information is within scope. However, the collection, analysis, and correlation of this information to achieve visibility are considered out of scope for O-RAN. As specified in [i.31], SIEM is not within the O-RAN Alliance's scope and is not defined by the O-RAN Alliance. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Initiate the use of automated methods to manage the configuration and lifecycle of resources within specific networks or environments. Ensure that all resources have a defined lifetime determined by policies and telemetry data. | O1 interface Networks Pillar Assets |  |  |  |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Initiate the use of automated methods to manage the configuration and lifecycle of resources within specific networks or environments. Ensure that all resources have a defined lifetime determined by policies and telemetry data. | ASSET-C-22 | None | Gap | Out of scope, network resource configuration and lifecycle management fall under the operator’s responsibilities. |

#### O1 Interface Devices Pillar

##### O1 Interface Devices Pillar Assets

- No assets applicable to devices pillar

##### O1 Interface Devices Pillar Transversal Requirements

The following devices pillar functions are considered transversal and are covered in 7.3.2:

- Policy Enforcement and Compliance Monitoring.
- Asset & Supply Chain Risk Management.

##### O1 Interface Devices Pillar Gap Analysis

The Devices Pillar is out of scope for the gap analysis.

### O-Cloud Gap Analysis

#### O-Cloud Data Pillar

##### O-Cloud Data Pillar Assets

The applicable assets defined in the WG11 O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment [i.4] are as follows:

ASSET-D-16: X.509 certificates in O-RAN network such as those used for O-RAN components for authentication, encryption, and signing.

ASSET-D-17: Security private keys in O-RAN network such as those used for O-RAN components for authentication, encryption, and signing.

ASSET-D-18: O-RAN components associated and configuration data

ASSET-D-20: Credentials of O-Cloud components

ASSET-D-29: Security event log files generated by O-RAN components

ASSET-D-31: Security telemetry from the NFV system for detecting threats and anomalies

ASSET-D-32: Cryptographic keys used during secure boot, for encryption/decryption

ASSET-D-33: Data transported over AALI-C-Mgmt interface

ASSET-D-34: Data transported over AALI-C-App & AALI-P interfaces

ASSET-D-35: Data transported over vendor-specific interface

ASSET-D-36: AAL profile

ASSET-D-37: AAL LPU

ASSET-D-38: Stored AAL data

##### O-Cloud Data Pillar Gap Analysis

| Data ZT Function | Guidance to Reach Initial Stage | Asset(s) | Existing Requirements Mapped to CISA Stage | Assessed Gap to Initial CISA Stage | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | O-Cloud Data Assets |  |  |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-16 | REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-ISO-3 SEC-CTL-O-CLOUD-ISO-3 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-O2dms-1 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-O2dms-3 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-O2ims-1 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-O2ims-3 | No gap |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-17 | REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-ISO-3 SEC-CTL-O-CLOUD-ISO-3 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-O2dms-1 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-O2dms-3 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-O2ims-1 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-O2ims-3 | No gap |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-18 | REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-ISO-3 SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-ISO-3 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-O2dms-1 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-O2dms-3 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-O2ims-1 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-O2ims-3 REQ-SEC-O-CLOUD-NotifAPI-1 REQ-SEC-O-CLOUD-NotifAPI-2 SEC-CTL-O-CLOUD-INTERFACE-2 SEC-CTL-O-CLOUD-INTERFACE-3 | No gap | O-Cloud configuration is controlled by RBAC (for k8s) and OS (for VMs) |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-20 | None | Gap | Credentials of O-Cloud components may not be handled by O-Cloud. This gap may require requirements on other O-RAN elements (e.g. SMO) |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-29 | REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-6 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-7 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESM-1 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESM-3 REQ-SEC-TESR-1 REQ-SEC-TESR-7 REQ-SEC-TESR-9 REQ-SEC-TESR-11 REQ-SEC-SLM-SST-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-STR-2 | Partial gap | No Security controls are defined, this gap is known and intentionally gap is not closed to enable many implementations that are existing. |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-31 | REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-6 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-7 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESM-1 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESM-3 REQ-SEC-TESR-1 REQ-SEC-TESR-7 REQ-SEC-TESR-9 REQ-SEC-TESR-11 REQ-SEC-SLM-SST-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-STR-2 | Partial gap | No Security controls are defined, this gap is known and intentionally gap is not closed to enable many implementations that are existing. |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-32 | None | Gap |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-33 | N/A | No gap | No access of data being transported is defined for the interface - hence this row is marked as N/A. |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-34 | N/A | No gap | No access of data being transported is defined for the interface - hence this row is marked as N/A. |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-35 | N/A | No gap | No access of data being transported is defined for the interface - hence this row is marked as N/A. |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-36 | None | Gap | No requirements and controls are specified |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-37 | None | Gap | No requirements and controls are specified |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-38 | REQ-SEC-AAL-1 REQ-SEC-AAL-2 REQ-SEC-AAL-5 SEC-CTL-AAL-1 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | O-Cloud Data Assets |  |  |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-16 | REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 (See NOTE 1) SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-SS-1 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-17 | REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 (See NOTE 1) SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-SS-1 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-18 | REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 (See NOTE 1) SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-SS-1 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-TS-1 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-20 | REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 (See NOTE 1) SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-SS-1 | Partial gap | Credentials of O-Cloud components may not be handled by O-Cloud. This partial gap may require requirements on other O-RAN elements (e.g. SMO) |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-29 | REQ-SEC-SLM-TESM-2 REQ-SEC-TESR-6 REQ-SEC-SLM-STR-1 | Partial gap | No Security controls are defined, this gap is known and intentionally gap is not closed to enable many implementations that are existing. |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-31 | REQ-SEC-SLM-TESM-2 REQ-SEC-TESR-6 REQ-SEC-SLM-STR-1 | Partial gap | No Security controls are defined, this gap is known and intentionally gap is not closed to enable many implementations that are existing. |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-32 | REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 (See NOTE 1) SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-SS-1 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-33 | REQ-SEC-AALI-C-Mgmt-3 SEC-CTL-AALI-C-Mgmt-1 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-34 | None | Gap | Confidentiality and integrity requirements and controls are missing |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-35 | REQ-SEC-AAL-VS-4 | Partial gap | There may not be a need to specify controls, since this is a vendor specific interface. |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-36 | None | Gap | No requirements and controls are specified |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-37 | None | Gap | No requirements and controls are specified |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-38 | None | Gap | No requirements and controls are specified |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | a)	Utilizes data inventory management, data categorization, data encryption, and access attempts information with some automated analysis and correlation to obtain visibility. | O-Cloud Data Assets |  |  |  |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | a)	Utilizes data inventory management, data categorization, data encryption, and access attempts information with some automated analysis and correlation to obtain visibility. | ASSET-D-16  ASSET-D-17 ASSET-D-18 ASSET-D-20 ASSET-D-29 ASSET-D-31 ASSET-D-32 ASSET-D-33 ASSET-D-34 ASSET-D-35 ASSET-D-36 ASSET-D-37 ASSET-D-38 | REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-1 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-2 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-3 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-6 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-7 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-8 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-5 | Partial gap | This is a partial gap, as the listed requirements address logging for data encryption and access attempts information. However, there are no requirements for providing information for: Data inventory management Data categorization. Creating and providing the required information is within scope. However, the collection, analysis, and correlation of this information to achieve visibility are considered out of scope for O-RAN. As specified in [i.31], SIEM is not within the O-RAN Alliance's scope and is not defined by the O-RAN Alliance. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | a)	Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | O-Cloud Data Assets |  |  |  |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | a)	Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-17 ASSET-D-18 ASSET-D-20 ASSET-D-29 ASSET-D-31 ASSET-D-32 ASSET-D-33 ASSET-D-34 ASSET-D-35 ASSET-D-36  ASSET-D-37 ASSET-D-38 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |

> NOTE 1: 	Encryption of data in use is considered as Optimal stage according to O-RAN ZTA Security Requirements for Data Encryption.

#### O-Cloud Applications and Workloads Pillar

##### O-Cloud Applications and Workloads Pillar Assets

The applicable assets defined in the WG11 O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment [i.4] are as follows:

ASSET-C-08: O-Cloud (Covers DMS and IMS and their services)

ASSET-C-29: AAL software including software, libraries, drivers

ASSET-C-30: The hardware accelerator device firmware

##### O-Cloud Applications and Workloads Pillar Gap Analysis

| Application and Workloads ZT Function | Guidance to Reach Initial Stage | Asset(s) | Existing Requirements Mapped to CISA Stage | Assessed Gap to Initial CISA Stage | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Application Access (Authorization) | a) Access authorization capabilities utilize contextual information such as identity, device compliance, and other attributes to make decisions on various requests for accessing application assets. b) Authorization is granted per request with expiration. | O-Cloud Application and Workloads Assets |  |  |  |
| Application Access (Authorization) | a) Access authorization capabilities utilize contextual information such as identity, device compliance, and other attributes to make decisions on various requests for accessing application assets. b) Authorization is granted per request with expiration. | ASSET-C-08 | None | Partial gap | Access to some of O-Cloud resources is based on RBAC (k8s profile) – implicit requirements are present |
| Application Access (Authorization) | a) Access authorization capabilities utilize contextual information such as identity, device compliance, and other attributes to make decisions on various requests for accessing application assets. b) Authorization is granted per request with expiration. | ASSET-C-29 | None | Gap | No requirements and controls are specified |
| Application Access (Authorization) | a) Access authorization capabilities utilize contextual information such as identity, device compliance, and other attributes to make decisions on various requests for accessing application assets. b) Authorization is granted per request with expiration. | ASSET-C-30 | None | Gap | No requirements and controls are specified |
| Application Threat Protections | a) Threat protections is integrated into mission-critical application workflows. b) Threat protections safeguard applications against known threats and address some application-specific threats. | O-Cloud Application and Workloads Assets |  |  |  |
| Application Threat Protections | a) Threat protections is integrated into mission-critical application workflows. b) Threat protections safeguard applications against known threats and address some application-specific threats. | ASSET-C-08 | REQ-SEC-DOS-1 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SU-5 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SU-7 | No gap |  |
| Application Threat Protections | a) Threat protections is integrated into mission-critical application workflows. b) Threat protections safeguard applications against known threats and address some application-specific threats. | ASSET-C-29 | REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SU-1 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SU-5 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SU-6 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SU-7 | No gap |  |
| Application Threat Protections | a) Threat protections is integrated into mission-critical application workflows. b) Threat protections safeguard applications against known threats and address some application-specific threats. | ASSET-C-30 | REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SU-5 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SU-7 | No gap |  |
| Accessible Applications | a) Applicable mission-critical applications are available over open public network connections to authorized users as needed. | O-Cloud Application and Workloads Assets |  |  |  |
| Accessible Applications | a) Applicable mission-critical applications are available over open public network connections to authorized users as needed. | ASSET-C-08 | N/A | No gap | Out of scope for O-RAN No identified Mission critical applications |
| Accessible Applications | a) Applicable mission-critical applications are available over open public network connections to authorized users as needed. | ASSET-C-29 | N/A | No gap | Out of scope for O-RAN No identified Mission critical applications |
| Accessible Applications | a) Applicable mission-critical applications are available over open public network connections to authorized users as needed. | ASSET-C-30 | N/A | No gap | Out of scope for O-RAN No identified Mission critical applications |
| Secure Application  Development and  Deployment Workflow  (New Function) | a) Infrastructure for development, testing, and production environments (including automation). b) Formal code deployment mechanisms through CI/CD pipelines. c) Access controls support least privilege principles. | O-Cloud Application and Workloads Assets |  |  |  |
| Secure Application  Development and  Deployment Workflow  (New Function) | a) Infrastructure for development, testing, and production environments (including automation). b) Formal code deployment mechanisms through CI/CD pipelines. c) Access controls support least privilege principles. | ASSET-C-08 | None | Gap | Out of scope for O-RAN Securing infrastructure for development, testing, and production environments is out of scope for O-RAN. |
| Secure Application  Development and  Deployment Workflow  (New Function) | a) Infrastructure for development, testing, and production environments (including automation). b) Formal code deployment mechanisms through CI/CD pipelines. c) Access controls support least privilege principles. | ASSET-C-29 | None | Gap | Out of scope for O-RAN Securing infrastructure for development, testing, and production environments is out of scope for O-RAN. |
| Secure Application  Development and  Deployment Workflow  (New Function) | a) Infrastructure for development, testing, and production environments (including automation). b) Formal code deployment mechanisms through CI/CD pipelines. c) Access controls support least privilege principles. | ASSET-C-30 | REQ-SEC-AAL-4 | No gap | Out of scope for O-RAN Securing infrastructure for development, testing, and production environments is out of scope for O-RAN. |
| Application Security  Testing (Formerly  Application Security) | a) Utilization of static and dynamic testing methods for security testing.  b) Performance of security testing including manual expert analysis before application deployment. | O-Cloud Application and Workloads Assets |  |  |  |
| Application Security  Testing (Formerly  Application Security) | a) Utilization of static and dynamic testing methods for security testing.  b) Performance of security testing including manual expert analysis before application deployment. | ASSET-C-08 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-1 REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-7b | No gap | Guidance (b) is out of scope for O-RAN. |
| Application Security  Testing (Formerly  Application Security) | a) Utilization of static and dynamic testing methods for security testing.  b) Performance of security testing including manual expert analysis before application deployment. | ASSET-C-29 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-1 REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-7b | No gap | Guidance (b) is out of scope for O-RAN. |
| Application Security  Testing (Formerly  Application Security) | a) Utilization of static and dynamic testing methods for security testing.  b) Performance of security testing including manual expert analysis before application deployment. | ASSET-C-30 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-1 REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-7b | No gap | Guidance (b) is out of scope for O-RAN. |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | a)	Initiate the automation of application profile (e.g., state, health, and performance) and security monitoring processes for improved log collection, aggregation, and analytics. | O-Cloud Application and Workloads Assets |  |  |  |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | a)	Initiate the automation of application profile (e.g., state, health, and performance) and security monitoring processes for improved log collection, aggregation, and analytics. | ASSET-C-08 | REQ-SEC-SLM-FLD-1 REQ-SEC-SLM-FLD-2 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-2 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-3 REQ-SEC-SLM-GEN-EVT-6 | Partial gap | These requirements allow for the inclusion of application profile information in security logs. However, the automation of application profile monitoring processes and analytics is not addressed. Log collection, aggregation, and analytics are considered out of scope for O-RAN. As specified in [i.31], SIEM is not within the O-RAN Alliance's scope and is not defined by the O-RAN Alliance. |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | a)	Initiate the automation of application profile (e.g., state, health, and performance) and security monitoring processes for improved log collection, aggregation, and analytics. | ASSET-C-29 | REQ-SEC-SLM-FLD-1 REQ-SEC-SLM-FLD-2 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-2 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-3 REQ-SEC-SLM-GEN-EVT-6 REQ-SEC-AAL-6 | Partial gap | These requirements allow for the inclusion of application profile information in security logs. However, the automation of application profile monitoring processes and analytics is not addressed. Log collection, aggregation, and analytics are considered out of scope for O-RAN. As specified in [i.31], SIEM is not within the O-RAN Alliance's scope and is not defined by the O-RAN Alliance. |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | a)	Initiate the automation of application profile (e.g., state, health, and performance) and security monitoring processes for improved log collection, aggregation, and analytics. | ASSET-C-30 | None | Gap | Log collection, aggregation, and analytics are out of scope. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | a)	Periodically modifies application configurations, including location and access parameters, to align with pertinent security and performance objectives. | O-Cloud Application and Workloads Assets |  |  |  |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | a)	Periodically modifies application configurations, including location and access parameters, to align with pertinent security and performance objectives. | ASSET-C-08 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as application configuration falls under the operator’s responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | a)	Periodically modifies application configurations, including location and access parameters, to align with pertinent security and performance objectives. | ASSET-C-29 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as application configuration falls under the operator’s responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | a)	Periodically modifies application configurations, including location and access parameters, to align with pertinent security and performance objectives. | ASSET-C-30 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as application configuration falls under the operator’s responsibilities. |

#### O-Cloud Identity Pillar

##### O-Cloud Identity Pillar Assets

The applicable assets defined in the WG11 O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment [i.4] are as follows:

ASSET-C-08: O-Cloud (Covers DMS and IMS and their services)

ASSET-C-29: AAL software including software, libraries, drivers

ASSET-C-30: The hardware accelerator device firmware

##### O-Cloud Identity Pillar Gap Analysis

| Identity ZT Function | Guidance to Reach Initial Stage | Asset(s) | Existing Requirements Mapped to CISA Stage | Assessed Gap to Initial CISA Stage | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Authentication | The system authenticates identity using MFA, which may include passwords as one factor and requires validation of multiple entity attributes (e.g., locale or activity). a) If there is mutual authentication for internal communications, we consider the stage as INITIAL. b) For internal interfaces, authentication based on credentials alone (certificate, pre-shared key, etc.) can be considered as meeting INITIAL maturity level. | O-Cloud Identity Pillar Assets |  |  |  |
| Authentication | The system authenticates identity using MFA, which may include passwords as one factor and requires validation of multiple entity attributes (e.g., locale or activity). a) If there is mutual authentication for internal communications, we consider the stage as INITIAL. b) For internal interfaces, authentication based on credentials alone (certificate, pre-shared key, etc.) can be considered as meeting INITIAL maturity level. | ASSET-C-08 | REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-1 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-INST-ID-1 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-COT-1 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-COT-2 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-PKG-2 REQ-SEC-AALI-C-Mgmt-1 REQ-SEC-AALI-C-Mgmt-2 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SW-1 | No gap |  |
| Authentication | The system authenticates identity using MFA, which may include passwords as one factor and requires validation of multiple entity attributes (e.g., locale or activity). a) If there is mutual authentication for internal communications, we consider the stage as INITIAL. b) For internal interfaces, authentication based on credentials alone (certificate, pre-shared key, etc.) can be considered as meeting INITIAL maturity level. | ASSET-C-29 | None | Gap | No requirements and controls are specified |
| Authentication | The system authenticates identity using MFA, which may include passwords as one factor and requires validation of multiple entity attributes (e.g., locale or activity). a) If there is mutual authentication for internal communications, we consider the stage as INITIAL. b) For internal interfaces, authentication based on credentials alone (certificate, pre-shared key, etc.) can be considered as meeting INITIAL maturity level. | ASSET-C-30 | REQ-SEC-AAL-VS-1 REQ-SEC-AAL-3 | Partial gap | No controls are specified |
| Access Management (Authorization) | The system authorizes access, including for privileged access requests, that expires with automated review.  a) This function applies to APIs and user access. b) For applications, static role assignments (e.g. role binding of a service account) with ephemeral tokens can be considered as INITIAL stage. | O-Cloud Identity Pillar Assets |  |  |  |
| Access Management (Authorization) | The system authorizes access, including for privileged access requests, that expires with automated review.  a) This function applies to APIs and user access. b) For applications, static role assignments (e.g. role binding of a service account) with ephemeral tokens can be considered as INITIAL stage. | ASSET-C-08 | REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-2 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-3 SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-1 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-ISO-1 REQ-SEC-OCloud-ISO-7 | No gap |  |
| Access Management (Authorization) | The system authorizes access, including for privileged access requests, that expires with automated review.  a) This function applies to APIs and user access. b) For applications, static role assignments (e.g. role binding of a service account) with ephemeral tokens can be considered as INITIAL stage. | ASSET-C-29 | REQ-SEC-AAL-VS-2 REQ-SEC-OCloud-ISO-7 | Partial gap | No controls are specified |
| Access Management (Authorization) | The system authorizes access, including for privileged access requests, that expires with automated review.  a) This function applies to APIs and user access. b) For applications, static role assignments (e.g. role binding of a service account) with ephemeral tokens can be considered as INITIAL stage. | ASSET-C-30 | REQ-SEC-OCloud-ISO-7 | Partial gap | No controls are specified |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | a)	Collecting user and entity activity logs. b)	Performing Routine Analysis: a.	Conduct regular manual analysis of the logs. b.	Implement some automated analysis, with limited correlation between different log types. | O-Cloud Identity Pillar Assets |  |  |  |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | a)	Collecting user and entity activity logs. b)	Performing Routine Analysis: a.	Conduct regular manual analysis of the logs. b.	Implement some automated analysis, with limited correlation between different log types. | ASSET-C-08 | REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-3 | Partial gap | Security log requirements enable the generation of security logs, but analysis, automation, and correlation are not specified. Analysis, automation, and correlation are considered out of scope for O-RAN. As specified in [i31Z], SIEM is not within the O-RAN Alliance's scope and is not defined by the O-RAN Alliance. |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | a)	Collecting user and entity activity logs. b)	Performing Routine Analysis: a.	Conduct regular manual analysis of the logs. b.	Implement some automated analysis, with limited correlation between different log types. | ASSET-C-29 | REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-3 | Partial gap | Security log requirements enable the generation of security logs, but analysis, automation, and correlation are not specified. Analysis, automation, and correlation are considered out of scope for O-RAN. As specified in [i.31], SIEM is not within the O-RAN Alliance's scope and is not defined by the O-RAN Alliance. |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | a)	Collecting user and entity activity logs. b)	Performing Routine Analysis: a.	Conduct regular manual analysis of the logs. b.	Implement some automated analysis, with limited correlation between different log types. | ASSET-C-30 | REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-3 | Partial gap | Security log requirements enable the generation of security logs, but analysis, automation, and correlation are not specified. Analysis, automation, and correlation are considered out of scope for O-RAN. As specified in [i.31], SIEM is not within the O-RAN Alliance's scope and is not defined by the O-RAN Alliance. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | a)	Manually orchestrates privileged and external identities. b)	Automates orchestration of non-privileged users. c)	Automates orchestration of self-managed entities. | O-Cloud Identity Pillar Assets |  |  |  |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | a)	Manually orchestrates privileged and external identities. b)	Automates orchestration of non-privileged users. c)	Automates orchestration of self-managed entities. | ASSET-C-08 | None | Gap | Security log requirements enable the generation of security logs, but analysis, automation, and correlation are not specified. Analysis, automation, and correlation are considered out of scope for O-RAN. As specified in [i.31], SIEM is not within the O-RAN Alliance's scope and is not defined by the O-RAN Alliance. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | a)	Manually orchestrates privileged and external identities. b)	Automates orchestration of non-privileged users. c)	Automates orchestration of self-managed entities. | ASSET-C-29 | None | Gap | Security log requirements enable the generation of security logs, but analysis, automation, and correlation are not specified. Analysis, automation, and correlation are considered out of scope for O-RAN. As specified in [i.31], SIEM is not within the O-RAN Alliance's scope and is not defined by the O-RAN Alliance. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | a)	Manually orchestrates privileged and external identities. b)	Automates orchestration of non-privileged users. c)	Automates orchestration of self-managed entities. | ASSET-C-30 | None | Gap | Security log requirements enable the generation of security logs, but analysis, automation, and correlation are not specified. Analysis, automation, and correlation are considered out of scope for O-RAN. As specified in [i.31], SIEM is not within the O-RAN Alliance's scope and is not defined by the O-RAN Alliance. |

#### O-Cloud Networks Pillar

##### O-Cloud Networks Pillar Assets

The applicable assets defined in the WG11 O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment [i.4] are as follows:

ASSET-C-08: O-Cloud (Covers DMS and IMS and their services)

> NOTE: 	O2 interface’s networks pillar assets are covered in clause 7.3.12.4

##### O-Cloud Networks Pillar Gap Analysis

| Networks ZT Function | Guidance to Reach Initial Stage | Asset(s) | Existing Requirements Mapped to CISA Stage | Assessed Gap to Initial CISA Stage | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Traffic Encryption | Encryption for all internal (and preferably external) application traffic, with formalized key management policies and secure encryption keys. | O-Cloud Networks Pillar Assets |  |  |  |
| Traffic Encryption | Encryption for all internal (and preferably external) application traffic, with formalized key management policies and secure encryption keys. | ASSET-C-08 | REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-ISO-5 SEC-CTL-O-CLOUD-ISO-2 REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 (See NOTE 1) SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-SS-1 REQ-SEC-AALI-C-Mgmt-3 SEC-CTL-AALI-C-Mgmt-1 REQ-SEC-AAL-VS-3 REQ-SEC-AAL-VS-4 | Partial gap | AALI-C-App & AALI-P interface traffic encryption related requirements and controls are not present. |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | a)	Utilize network monitoring capabilities based on known indicators of compromise, including network enumeration, to develop situational awareness in each environment. b)	Commence correlating telemetry across traffic types and environments to facilitate analysis and threat hunting activities. | O-Cloud Networks Pillar Assets |  |  |  |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | a)	Utilize network monitoring capabilities based on known indicators of compromise, including network enumeration, to develop situational awareness in each environment. b)	Commence correlating telemetry across traffic types and environments to facilitate analysis and threat hunting activities. | ASSET-C-08 | REQ-SEC-SLM-NET-EVT-1 | Partial gap | The provided requirement enables the generation of information related to network events, but analysis, and correlation are not specified. Providing the required information is within scope. However, the collection, analysis, and correlation of this information to achieve visibility are considered out of scope for O-RAN. As specified in [i.31], SIEM is not within the O-RAN Alliance's scope and is not defined by the O-RAN Alliance. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | a)	Initiate the use of automated methods to manage the configuration and lifecycle of resources within specific networks or environments. b)	Ensure that all resources have a defined lifetime determined by policies and telemetry data. | O-Cloud Networks Pillar Assets |  |  |  |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | a)	Initiate the use of automated methods to manage the configuration and lifecycle of resources within specific networks or environments. b)	Ensure that all resources have a defined lifetime determined by policies and telemetry data. | ASSET-C-08 | None | Gap | Out of scope, network resource configuration and lifecycle management fall under the operator’s responsibilities. |

> NOTE 1: 	Encryption of data in use is considered as Optimal stage according to O-RAN ZTA Security Requirements for Data Encryption.

#### O-Cloud Devices Pillar

##### O-Cloud Devices Pillar Assets

The applicable assets defined in this document are as follows:

ZT-OCLOUD-I-X1: O-Cloud hardware

ASSET-C-30: The hardware accelerator device firmware.

ZT-OCLOUD-I-X2: O-Cloud OS Software. It includes firmware and host OS.

ZT-OCLOUD-I-X5: O-Cloud Virtualization Layer. It includes hypervisors or container engines.

ZT-OCLOUD-I-X6: O-Cloud VMs.

ZT-OCLOUD-I-X7: O-Cloud Containers.

##### O-Cloud Devices Pillar Gap Analysis

| Devices ZT Function | Guidance to Reach Initial Stage | Asset(s) | Existing Requirements Mapped to CISA Stage | Assessed Gap to Initial CISA Stage | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Policy Enforcement and Compliance Monitoring | Basic Device  characteristics visibility. Basic policy enforcement mechanism for managing software, configurations, or vulnerabilities. | O-Cloud Devices Pillar Assets |  |  |  |
| Policy Enforcement and Compliance Monitoring | Basic Device  characteristics visibility. Basic policy enforcement mechanism for managing software, configurations, or vulnerabilities. | ZT-OCLOUD-I-X1 | REQ-SEC-AAL-4 SEC-CTL-AAL-2 | No gap |  |
| Policy Enforcement and Compliance Monitoring | Basic Device  characteristics visibility. Basic policy enforcement mechanism for managing software, configurations, or vulnerabilities. | ASSET-C-30 | REQ-SEC-AAL-2 REQ-SEC-AAL-3 REQ-SEC-TAP-5 REQ-SEC-SLM-NET-EVT-1 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-1 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-3 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-5 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-6 | No gap |  |
| Policy Enforcement and Compliance Monitoring | Basic Device  characteristics visibility. Basic policy enforcement mechanism for managing software, configurations, or vulnerabilities. | ZT-OCLOUD-I-X2 | REQ-SEC-SLM-NET-EVT-1 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-1 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-3 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-5 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-6 | No gap |  |
| Policy Enforcement and Compliance Monitoring | Basic Device  characteristics visibility. Basic policy enforcement mechanism for managing software, configurations, or vulnerabilities. | ZT-OCLOUD-I-X5 | REQ-SEC-SLM-NET-EVT-1 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-1 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-3 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-5 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-6 | No gap |  |
| Policy Enforcement and Compliance Monitoring | Basic Device  characteristics visibility. Basic policy enforcement mechanism for managing software, configurations, or vulnerabilities. | ZT-OCLOUD-I-X6 | REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-ISO-7 REQ-SEC-SLM-NET-EVT-1 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-1 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-3 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-5 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-6 | No gap |  |
| Policy Enforcement and Compliance Monitoring | Basic Device  characteristics visibility. Basic policy enforcement mechanism for managing software, configurations, or vulnerabilities. | ZT-OCLOUD-I-X7 | REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-ISO-7 REQ-SEC-SLM-NET-EVT-1 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-1 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-3 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-5 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-6 | No gap |  |
| Resource Access | Some visibility into devices or virtual assets' characteristics to approve resource access. | O-Cloud Devices Pillar Assets |  |  |  |
| Resource Access | Some visibility into devices or virtual assets' characteristics to approve resource access. | ZT-OCLOUD-I-X1 | SEC-CTL-O-CLOUD-HW-1 REQ-SEC-AAL-VS-1 REQ-SEC-AAL-1 REQ-SEC-AAL-5 (See NOTE 1) | No gap |  |
| Resource Access | Some visibility into devices or virtual assets' characteristics to approve resource access. | ASSET-C-30 | None | Gap |  |
| Resource Access | Some visibility into devices or virtual assets' characteristics to approve resource access. | ZT-OCLOUD-I-X2 | None | Gap |  |
| Resource Access | Some visibility into devices or virtual assets' characteristics to approve resource access. | ZT-OCLOUD-I-X5 | None | Gap |  |
| Resource Access | Some visibility into devices or virtual assets' characteristics to approve resource access. | ZT-OCLOUD-I-X6 | None | Gap |  |
| Resource Access | Some visibility into devices or virtual assets' characteristics to approve resource access. | ZT-OCLOUD-I-X7 | None | Gap |  |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | Digital Identifiers: Use digital identifiers alongside a manual inventory and endpoint monitoring of devices when available. Automated Analysis: Ensure some devices and virtual assets are under automated analysis (e.g., software-based scanning) for anomaly detection based on risk. | O-Cloud Devices Pillar Assets |  |  |  |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | Digital Identifiers: Use digital identifiers alongside a manual inventory and endpoint monitoring of devices when available. Automated Analysis: Ensure some devices and virtual assets are under automated analysis (e.g., software-based scanning) for anomaly detection based on risk. | ZT-OCLOUD-I-X1 ASSET-C-30 ZT-OCLOUD-I-X2 ZT-OCLOUD-I-X5 ZT-OCLOUD-I-X6 ZT-OCLOUD-I-X7 | None | Gap | No requirements on digital identifiers, endpoint monitoring, and manual inventory for O-Cloud hardware.  Analysis, automation, and correlation are out of scope. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | a) Utilization of monitoring and enforcement mechanisms to identify and manually disconnect or isolate non-compliant devices and virtual assets. | O-Cloud Devices Pillar Assets |  |  |  |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | a) Utilization of monitoring and enforcement mechanisms to identify and manually disconnect or isolate non-compliant devices and virtual assets. | ZT-OCLOUD-I-X1 ASSET-C-30 ZT-OCLOUD-I-X2 ZT-OCLOUD-I-X5 ZT-OCLOUD-I-X6 ZT-OCLOUD-I-X7 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as disconnecting or isolating non-compliant devices and virtual assets fall under the operator’s responsibility. |

> NOTE 1: 	Fine grained access to AAL applications when accessing accelerator device resources is considered as advanced stage according to O-RAN ZTA Security Requirements for Resource Access.

### O2 Interface Gap Analysis

#### O2 Interface Data Pillar

##### O2 interface Data Pillar Assets

The applicable assets defined in the WG11 O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment [i.4] are as follows:

ASSET-D-14: O-Cloud Provisioning information, O-Cloud software management information

ASSET-D-15: O-RAN Cloudified Network Function Software

ASSET-D-18: O-RAN components associated and configuration data

##### O2 Interface Data Pillar Gap Analysis

| Data ZT Function | Guidance to Reach Initial Stage | Asset(s) | Existing Requirements Mapped to CISA Stage | Assessed Gap to Initial CISA Stage | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | O2 interface Data Assets |  |  |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-14 | N/A | No gap | No access of data being transported is defined for the O2 interface - hence this row is marked as N/A. |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-15 | N/A | No gap | No access of data being transported is defined for the O2 interface - hence this row is marked as N/A. |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-18 | N/A | No gap | No access of data being transported is defined for the O2 interface - hence this row is marked as N/A. |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | O2 interface Data Assets |  |  |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-14 | REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-O2ims-2 SEC-CTL-O2-1 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-15 | REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-O2ims-2 SEC-CTL-O2-1 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-18 | REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 (See NOTE 1) SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-SS-1 | No gap |  |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | Utilizes data inventory management, data categorization, data encryption, and access attempts information with some automated analysis and correlation to obtain visibility | O2 interface Data Assets |  |  |  |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | Utilizes data inventory management, data categorization, data encryption, and access attempts information with some automated analysis and correlation to obtain visibility | ASSET-D-14 ASSET-D-15 ASSET-D-18 | REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-1 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-2 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-3 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-6 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-7 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-8 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-5 | Partial gap | This is a partial gap, as the listed requirements address logging for data encryption and access attempts information. However, there are no requirements for providing information for: Data inventory management Data categorization. Creating and providing the required information is. within scope. However, the collection, analysis, and correlation of this information to achieve visibility are considered out of scope for O-RAN. As specified in [i.31], SIEM is not within the O-RAN Alliance's scope and is not defined by the O-RAN Alliance. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | O2 interface Data Assets |  |  |  |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-14 ASSET-D-15 ASSET-D-18 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |

> NOTE 1: 	Encryption of data in use is considered as Optimal stage according to O-RAN ZTA Security Requirements for Data Encryption.

#### O2 Interface Applications and Workloads Pillar

##### O2 interface Applications and Workloads Pillar Assets

No asset applicable to specific pillar.

##### O2 Interface Applications and Workloads Pillar Gap Analysis

No asset applicable to specific pillar.

#### O2 Interface Identity Pillar

##### O2 interface Identity Pillar Assets

No asset applicable to specific pillar.

##### O2 Interface Identity Pillar Gap Analysis

No asset applicable to specific pillar.

#### O2 Interface Networks Pillar

##### O2 interface Networks Pillar Assets

The applicable assets defined in this document are as follows:

ZT-OCLOUD-S-X1: O2ims services

ZT-OCLOUD-S-X2: O2dms services

##### O2 Interface Networks Pillar Gap Analysis

| Networks ZT Function | Guidance to Reach Initial Stage | Asset(s) | Existing Requirements Mapped to CISA Stage | Assessed Gap to Initial CISA Stage | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Traffic Encryption | Encryption for all internal (and preferably external) application traffic, with formalized key management policies and secure encryption keys. | O2 interface Networks Pillar Assets |  |  |  |
| Traffic Encryption | Encryption for all internal (and preferably external) application traffic, with formalized key management policies and secure encryption keys. | ZT-OCLOUD-S-X1 | REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-O2ims-2 REQ-SEC-O2-1 SEC-CTL-O2-1 | No gap |  |
| Traffic Encryption | Encryption for all internal (and preferably external) application traffic, with formalized key management policies and secure encryption keys. | ZT-OCLOUD-S-X2 | REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-O2dms-2 REQ-SEC-O2-1 SEC-CTL-O2-1 | No gap |  |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | a) Utilize network monitoring capabilities based on known indicators of compromise, including network enumeration, to develop situational awareness in each environment. b) Commence correlating telemetry across traffic types and environments to facilitate analysis and threat hunting activities. | O2 interface Networks Pillar Assets |  |  |  |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | a) Utilize network monitoring capabilities based on known indicators of compromise, including network enumeration, to develop situational awareness in each environment. b) Commence correlating telemetry across traffic types and environments to facilitate analysis and threat hunting activities. | ZT-OCLOUD-S-X1 | None | Gap | No requirements for providing network monitoring information. Providing the required information is within scope. However, the collection, analysis, and correlation of this information to achieve visibility are considered out of scope for O-RAN. As specified in [i.31], SIEM is not within the O-RAN Alliance's scope and is not defined by the O-RAN Alliance. |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | a) Utilize network monitoring capabilities based on known indicators of compromise, including network enumeration, to develop situational awareness in each environment. b) Commence correlating telemetry across traffic types and environments to facilitate analysis and threat hunting activities. | ZT-OCLOUD-S-X2 | None | Gap | No requirements for providing network monitoring information. Providing the required information is within scope. However, the collection, analysis, and correlation of this information to achieve visibility are considered out of scope for O-RAN. As specified in [i.31], SIEM is not within the O-RAN Alliance's scope and is not defined by the O-RAN Alliance. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | a) Initiate the use of automated methods to manage the configuration and lifecycle of resources within specific networks or environments. b) Ensure that all resources have a defined lifetime determined by policies and telemetry data. | O2 interface Networks Pillar Assets |  |  |  |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | a) Initiate the use of automated methods to manage the configuration and lifecycle of resources within specific networks or environments. b) Ensure that all resources have a defined lifetime determined by policies and telemetry data. | ZT-OCLOUD-S-X1 ZT-OCLOUD-S-X2 | None | Gap | Out of scope, network resource configuration and lifecycle management fall under the operator’s responsibilities. |

#### O2 Interface Devices Pillar

##### O2 interface Devices Pillar Assets

No asset applicable to specific pillar.

##### O2 Interface Devices Pillar Gap Analysis

No asset applicable to specific pillar.

### O-CU Gap Analysis

#### O-CU Data Pillar

##### O-CU Data Pillar Assets

The applicable assets defined in the WG11 O-RAN Security Threat Modelling and Risk Assessment [i.4] are listed below.  The O-CU also has O1 and E2 interfaces as well, which are discussed separately in clauses 7.3.10 and 7.3.4 respectively.

The assets associated with the O-CU are:

ASSET-D-03: M-Plane O1 Data

ASSET-D-11: E2 Node Data (at rest)

ASSET-D-16: X.509 certificates

ASSET-D-17: Private keys

ASSET-D-18: O-RAN components associated and configuration data.

ASSET-D-19: ETSI TS 133 501 cryptographic keys

ASSET-D-20: Credentials (Administrators)

ASSET-D-21: 3GPP application related data

ASSET-D-22: Inter- and Intra- slice UE priority

ASSET-D-23: Patches for vulnerable SW components

ASSET-D-24: NETCONF Configuration Access Control Model datastores.

ASSET-D-29: Security event log files.

ASSET-D-31: Security telemetry from the NFV system for detecting threats and anomalies.

ASSET-D-32: Cryptographic keys used during secure boot

##### O-CU Data Pillar Gap Analysis

| Data ZT Function | Guidance to reach initial stage | Asset(s) | Existing Requirements Mapped to CISA Stage | Assessed Gap to Initial CISA Stage | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-03 | REQ-TLS-FUN-2 REQ-NAC-FUN-1 REQ-NAC-FUN-2 REQ-NAC-FUN-3 REQ-NAC-FUN-4 REQ-NAC-FUN-5 REQ-NAC-FUN-6 REQ-NAC-FUN-7 REQ-NAC-FUN-8 REQ-NAC-FUN-9  REQ-NAC-FUN-10 REQ-NAC-FUN-11 | No gap |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-11 | None | Gap | Authentication and authorization controls not defined |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-16 | None | Gap | Authentication and authorization controls not defined |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-17 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-13 SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-4 Clause 5.3.5 [i.17] | No gap |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-18 | None | Gap | Authentication and authorization controls not defined |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-19 | None | Gap | Authentication and authorization controls not defined |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-20 | REQ-SEC-PASS-1 SEC-CTL-PASS-1 SEC-CTL-PASS-2 SEC-CTL-PASS-3 | Gap | Authentication and authorization controls not defined |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-21 | None | Gap | May be outside of scope for O-RAN ALLIANCE |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-22 | None | Gap | Authentication and authorization controls not defined |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-23 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-11 SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-1 SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-2 | No gap |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-24 | None | Gap | Authentication and authorization controls not defined |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-29 | REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-6 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-7 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESM-1 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESM-3 REQ-SEC-TESR-1 REQ-SEC-TESR-7 REQ-SEC-TESR-9 REQ-SEC-TESR-11 REQ-SEC-SLM-SST-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-STR-2 | No gap |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-31 | REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-6 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-7 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESM-1 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESM-3 REQ-SEC-TESR-1 REQ-SEC-TESR-7 REQ-SEC-TESR-9 REQ-SEC-TESR-11 REQ-SEC-SLM-SST-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-STR-2 | No gap |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-32 | None | Gap | Authentication and authorization controls not defined |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-03 | None | Gap | Requirements around authentication and authorization only. |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-11 | None | No gap | Confidentiality not listed as requirement for asset. |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-16 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-13 SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-2 Clause 5.3.5 [i.17], | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-17 | REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-13 SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-SS-1 SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-2 SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-4 Clause 5.3.5 [i.17] | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-18 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-13 | Possible gap | Requirement is too general |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-19 | Clause 5.3.5 [i.17] | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-20 | REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-13 SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-SS-1 SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-2 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-21 | Clause 5.3.8 [i.17] | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-22 | None | No gap | Confidentiality not listed as requirement for asset. |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-23 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-10 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-24 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-13 | No gap | No encryption in transit or rest |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-29 | REQ-SEC-SLM-TESM-2 REQ-SEC-TESR-6 REQ-SEC-SLM-STR-1 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-31 | REQ-SEC-SLM-TESM-2 REQ-SEC-TESR-6 REQ-SEC-SLM-STR-1 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-32 | Clause 5.3.5 [i.17] | No gap | Would apply to data at rest only. |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | Utilizes data inventory management, data categorization, data encryption, and access attempts information with some automated analysis and correlation to obtain visibility. | ASSET-D-03 ASSET-D-11 ASSET-D-16 ASSET-D-17 ASSET-D-18 ASSET-D-19 ASSET-D-20 ASSET-D-21 ASSET-D-22 ASSET-D-23 ASSET-D-24 ASSET-D-29 ASSET-D-31 ASSET-D-32 | REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-1 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-2 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-3 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-6 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-7 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-8 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-5 | Partial gap | This is a partial gap, as the listed requirements address logging for data encryption and access attempts information. However, there are no requirements for providing information for: Data inventory management Data categorization. Creating and providing the required information is. within scope. However, the collection, analysis, and correlation of this information to achieve visibility are considered out of scope for O-RAN. As specified in [i.31], SIEM is not within the O-RAN Alliance's scope and is not defined by the O-RAN Alliance. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-03 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-11 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-16 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-17 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-18 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-19 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-20 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-21 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-22 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-23 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-24 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-29 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-31 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-32 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |

#### O-CU Application and Workloads Pillar

##### O-CU Application and Workloads Pillar Assets

The applicable assets and components defined in the WG11 O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment [i.4] are listed below. The O-CU also has O1 and E2 interfaces as well, which are discussed separately in clauses 7.3.10 and 7.3.4 respectively. The O-CU specific assets are as follows:

ASSET-C-03: O-CU-UP software.

ASSET-C-04: O-CU-CP software.

ASSET-C-36: CU-Host (Including software)

ASSET-C-37: CU-Tenant (Including software)

##### O-CU Application and Workloads Pillar Gap Analysis

Note that in Table 7.3.13-2 below, the O-CU asset(s) are grouped together as the requirements and controls are apply at the NF level.

| App/Workloads ZT Function | Guidance to reach initial stage | Asset(s) | Existing Requirements Mapped to CISA Stage | Assessed Gap to Initial CISA Stage | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Application Access (Authorization) | a) Access authorization capabilities utilize contextual information such as identity, device compliance, and other attributes to make decisions on various requests for accessing application assets. b) Authorization is granted per request with expiration. | ASSET-C-03 ASSET-C-04 ASSET-C-36 ASSET-C-37 | See [i.24] | Partial gap | Some contextual information may be operational and out of scope for specification. |
| Application Threat Protections | a) Threat protections is integrated into mission-critical application workflows. b) Threat protections safeguard applications against known threats and address some application-specific threats. | ASSET-C-03 ASSET-C-04 ASSET-C-36 ASSET-C-37 | REQ-SEC-ALM-SU-2 REQ-SEC-ALM-SU-3 | No gap |  |
| Accessible Applications | a) Applicable mission-critical applications are available over open public network connections to authorized users as needed. | ASSET-C-03 ASSET-C-04 ASSET-C-36 ASSET-C-37 | See [i.17] | No gap | Out of scope for O-RAN No identified Mission critical applications Requirements specified in 3GPP |
| Secure Application  Development and  Deployment Workflow | a) Infrastructure for development, testing, and production environments (including automation). b) Formal code deployment mechanisms through CI/CD pipelines. c) Access controls support least privilege principles. | ASSET-C-03 ASSET-C-04 ASSET-C-36 ASSET-C-37 |  | Gap | Out of scope for O-RAN Securing infrastructure for development, testing, and production environments is out of scope for O-RAN. |
| Application Security  Testing | a) Utilization of static and dynamic testing methods for security testing. b) Performance of security testing including manual expert analysis before application deployment. | ASSET-C-03 ASSET-C-04 ASSET-C-36 ASSET-C-37 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-1 REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-7b | No gap | Guidance (b) is out of scope for O-RAN. |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | Initiate the automation of application profile (e.g., state, health, and performance) and security monitoring processes for improved log collection, aggregation, and analytics. | ASSET-C-03 ASSET-C-04 ASSET-C-36 ASSET-C-37 | REQ-SEC-SLM-FLD-1 REQ-SEC-SLM-FLD-2 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-5 | Partial gap | These requirements allow for the inclusion of application profile information in security logs. However, the automation of application profile monitoring processes and analytics is not addressed. Log collection, aggregation, and analytics are out of scope. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Periodically modifies application configurations, including location and access parameters, to align with pertinent security and performance objectives. | ASSET-C-03 ASSET-C-04 ASSET-C-36 ASSET-C-37 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as application configuration falls under operator’s responsibilities. |

#### O-CU Identity Pillar

##### O-CU Identity Pillar Assets

The applicable assets and components defined in the WG11 O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment [i.4] are listed below. The O-CU is considered a singular NF in terms of identity and does not have separate identities for each interface. The assets are listed as follows:

ASSET-C-12a: PNF NF equipment

ASSET-C-36: CU-Host (Including software).

ASSET-C-37: CU-Tenant (Including software).

##### O-CU Identity Pillar Gap Analysis

| Networks ZT Function | Guidance to reach initial stage | Asset(s) | Existing Requirements Mapped to CISA Stage | Assessed Gap to Initial CISA Stage | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Authentication | The system authenticates identity using MFA, which may include passwords as one factor and requires validation of multiple entity attributes (e.g. locale or activity). if there is mutual authentication for internal communications, we consider the stage as INITIAL. For internal interfaces, authentication based on credentials alone (certificate, pre-shared key, etc.) can be considered as meeting INITIAL maturity level. | ASSET-C-12 | See [i.17][i.25] | No gap |  |
| Authentication | The system authenticates identity using MFA, which may include passwords as one factor and requires validation of multiple entity attributes (e.g. locale or activity). if there is mutual authentication for internal communications, we consider the stage as INITIAL. For internal interfaces, authentication based on credentials alone (certificate, pre-shared key, etc.) can be considered as meeting INITIAL maturity level. | ASSET-C-36 | See [i.17][i.25] | No gap |  |
| Authentication | The system authenticates identity using MFA, which may include passwords as one factor and requires validation of multiple entity attributes (e.g. locale or activity). if there is mutual authentication for internal communications, we consider the stage as INITIAL. For internal interfaces, authentication based on credentials alone (certificate, pre-shared key, etc.) can be considered as meeting INITIAL maturity level. | ASSET-C-37 | See [i.17][i.25] | No gap |  |
| Access Management (Authorization) | The system authorizes access, including for privileged access requests, that expires with automated review. This function applies to APIs and user accounts. For applications, static role assignments (e.g. role binding of a service account) with ephemeral tokens can be considered as INITIAL stage. | ASSET-C-12 | See [i.17][i.25] | No gap |  |
| Access Management (Authorization) | The system authorizes access, including for privileged access requests, that expires with automated review. This function applies to APIs and user accounts. For applications, static role assignments (e.g. role binding of a service account) with ephemeral tokens can be considered as INITIAL stage. | ASSET-C-36 | See [i.17][i.25] | No gap |  |
| Access Management (Authorization) | The system authorizes access, including for privileged access requests, that expires with automated review. This function applies to APIs and user accounts. For applications, static role assignments (e.g. role binding of a service account) with ephemeral tokens can be considered as INITIAL stage. | ASSET-C-37 | See [i.17][i.25] | No gap |  |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | Collecting user and entity activity logs.  Performing Routine Analysis: Conduct regular manual analysis of the logs. Implement some automated analysis, with limited correlation between different log types. | ASSET-C-12a | REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-3 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-13 | Partial gap | Security log requirements enable generation of security logs, but analysis, automation, and correlation are not specified. Analysis, automation, and correlation are considered out of scope for O-RAN. As specified in [i.31], SIEM is not within the O-RAN Alliance's scope and is not defined by the O-RAN Alliance. |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | Collecting user and entity activity logs.  Performing Routine Analysis: Conduct regular manual analysis of the logs. Implement some automated analysis, with limited correlation between different log types. | ASSET-C-36 | REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-3 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-13 | Partial gap | Security log requirements enable generation of security logs, but analysis, automation, and correlation are not specified. Analysis, automation, and correlation are considered out of scope for O-RAN. As specified in [i.31], SIEM is not within the O-RAN Alliance's scope and is not defined by the O-RAN Alliance. |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | Collecting user and entity activity logs.  Performing Routine Analysis: Conduct regular manual analysis of the logs. Implement some automated analysis, with limited correlation between different log types. | ASSET-C-37 | REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-3 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-13 | Partial gap | Security log requirements enable generation of security logs, but analysis, automation, and correlation are not specified. Analysis, automation, and correlation are considered out of scope for O-RAN. As specified in [i.31], SIEM is not within the O-RAN Alliance's scope and is not defined by the O-RAN Alliance. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Manually orchestrates privileged and external identities. Automates orchestration of non-privileged users. Automates orchestration of self-managed entities. | ASSET-C-12a | None | Gap | Out of scope, as user and identity orchestration falls under operator’s responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Manually orchestrates privileged and external identities. Automates orchestration of non-privileged users. Automates orchestration of self-managed entities. | ASSET-C-36 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as user and identity orchestration falls under operator’s responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Manually orchestrates privileged and external identities. Automates orchestration of non-privileged users. Automates orchestration of self-managed entities. | ASSET-C-37 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as user and identity orchestration falls under operator’s responsibilities. |

#### O-CU Networks Pillar

##### O-CU Networks Pillar Assets

Currently there are no applicable assets or components defined in the WG11 O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment [i.4] for O-CU Network pillar.

##### O-CU Networks Pillar Gap Analysis

No gap analysis required.

#### O-CU Devices Pillar

##### O-CU Devices Pillar Assets

The applicable assets and components defined in the WG11 O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment [i.4] are listed below. The O-CU specific assets are as follows:

ASSET-C-12a: PNF NF equipment

##### O-CU Devices Pillar Gap Analysis

| Devices ZT Function | Guidance to reach initial stage | Asset(s) | Existing Requirements Mapped to CISA Stage | Assessed Gap to Initial CISA Stage | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Policy Enforcement and Compliance Monitoring | Basic Device characteristics visibility. Basic policy enforcement mechanism for managing software configurations or vulnerabilities | ASSET-C-12 | REQ-SEC-TAP-5 REQ-SEC-SLM-NET-EVT-1 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-1 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-3 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-5 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-6 See [i.17] | No gap |  |
| Resource Access (Authorization) | Some visibility into devices or virtual assets’ characteristics to approve resource access | ASSET-C-12 | REQ-SEC-SLM-NET-EVT-1 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-6 | No gap |  |
| Device Threat Protection | Some automated processes for deploying and updating threat protection capabilities to devices and to virtual assets with limited policy enforcement and compliance monitoring integration. | ASSET-C-12 | REQ-SEC-SLM-NET-EVT-1 | Partial gap | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG applies to VNF/CNF and not PNFs |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | Use digital identifiers alongside a manual inventory and endpoint monitoring of devices when available Automated analysis: Ensure some devices and virtual assets (e.g., software-based scanning) for anomaly detection based on risk. | ASSET-C-12a | None | Gap | Out of scope, as endpoint inventory management fall under the operator’s responsibility. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Utilization of monitoring and enforcement mechanisms to identify and manually disconnect or isolate non-compliant devices and virtual assets. | ASSET-C-12a | None | Gap | Out of scope, as disconnecting or isolating non-compliant devices and virtual assets fall under the operator’s responsibility. |

### O-DU Gap Analysis

#### O-DU Data Pillar

##### O-DU Data Pillar Assets

The applicable assets defined in the WG11 O-RAN Security Threat Modelling and Risk Assessment [i.4] are listed below.  The O-DU also has O1 and E2 interfaces as well, which are discussed separately in clauses 7.3.10 and 7.3.4 respectively.

The unique assets associated with the O-DU are:

ASSET-D-01: Critical S-Plane Data

ASSET-D-02: Critical M-Plane Data transported over Fronthaul

ASSET-D-03: M-Plane O1 Data

ASSET-D-04: Critical C-Plane Data

ASSET-D-05: Critical Fronthaul U-Plane data

ASSET-D-11: E2 Node Data (at rest)

ASSET-D-16: X.509 certificates

ASSET-D-17: Private keys

ASSET-D-18: O-RAN components associated and configuration data.

ASSET-D-20: Credentials (Administrators)

ASSET-D-22: Inter- and Intra- slice UE priority

ASSET-D-23: Patches for vulnerable SW components

ASSET-D-24: NETCONF Configuration Access Control Model datastores.

ASSET-D-29: Security event log files.

ASSET-D-31: Security telemetry from the NFV system for detecting threats and anomalies.

ASSET-D-32: Cryptographic keys used during secure boot

##### O-DU Data Pillar Gap Analysis

| Data ZT Function | Guidance to reach initial stage | Asset(s) | Existing Requirements Mapped to CISA Stage | Assessed Gap to Initial CISA Stage | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-01 | None | Gap | Authentication and authorization controls not defined |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-02 | None | Gap | Authentication and authorization controls not defined |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-03 | REQ-TLS-FUN-2 REQ-NAC-FUN-1 REQ-NAC-FUN-2 REQ-NAC-FUN-3 REQ-NAC-FUN-4 REQ-NAC-FUN-5 REQ-NAC-FUN-6 REQ-NAC-FUN-7 REQ-NAC-FUN-8 REQ-NAC-FUN-9  REQ-NAC-FUN-10 REQ-NAC-FUN-11 | No gap |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-04 | None | Gap | Authentication and authorization controls not defined |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-05 | None | Gap | Authentication and authorization controls not defined |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-11 | None | Gap | Authentication and authorization controls not defined |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-16 | None | Gap | Authentication and authorization controls not defined |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-17 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-13 SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-4 Clause 5.3.5 [i.17] | No gap |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-18 | None | Gap | Authentication and authorization controls not defined |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-20 | REQ-SEC-PASS-1 SEC-CTL-PASS-1 SEC-CTL-PASS-2 SEC-CTL-PASS-3 | Gap | Authentication and authorization controls not defined |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-22 | None | Gap | Authentication and authorization controls not defined |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-23 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-11 SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-1 | No gap |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-24 | None | Gap | Authentication and authorization controls not defined |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-29 | REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-6 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESM-3 REQ-SEC-TESR-1 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESR-5 REQ-SEC-TESR-7 REQ-SEC-TESR-9 REQ-SEC-TESR-11 | No gap |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-31 | REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-6 REQ-SEC-SLM-TE-5 REQ-SEC-TESR-1 REQ-SEC-TESR-7 REQ-SEC-TESR-9 REQ-SEC-TESR-11 | No gap |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-32 | None | Gap | There are requirements for secure storage and boot, but not access of key material. |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-01 | REQ-SEC-OFSP-8 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-02 | See [i.26] | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-03 | See [i.24] | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-04 | REQ-SEC-OFCP-4 SEC-CTL-OFCP-1 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-05 | Clause 6.6 [i.17] | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-11 | None | Gap | Data at rest only, see clause 7.3.4 for E2 data in transit |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-16 | REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-13 See [i.24],[i.25] | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-17 | REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-13 See [i.24],[i.25] | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-18 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-13 | Possible gap | Requirement is too general |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-20 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-13 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-22 | See [i.24],[i.25] | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-23 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-10 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-24 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-13 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-29 | REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-6 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-7 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESM-2 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-31 | REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-6 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-7 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESM-2 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-32 | See [i.17] | No gap | Data at rest. |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | Utilizes data inventory management, data categorization, data encryption, and access attempts information with some automated analysis and correlation to obtain visibility. | ASSET-D-01 ASSET-D-02 ASSET-D-03 ASSET-D-04 ASSET-D-05 ASSET-D-11 ASSET-D-16 ASSET-D-17 ASSET-D-18 ASSET-D-20 ASSET-D-22 ASSET-D-23 ASSET-D-24 ASSET-D-29 ASSET-D-31 ASSET-D-32 | REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-1 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-2 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-3 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-6 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-7 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-8 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-5 | Partial gap | This is a partial gap, as the listed requirements address logging for data encryption and access attempts information. However, there are no requirements for providing information for: Data inventory management Data categorization. Creating and providing the required information is. within scope. However, the collection, analysis, and correlation of this information to achieve visibility are considered out of scope for O-RAN. As specified in [i.31], SIEM is not within the O-RAN Alliance's scope and is not defined by the O-RAN Alliance. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-01 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-02 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-03 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-04 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-05 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-11 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-16 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-17 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-18 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-20 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-22 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-23 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-24 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-29 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-31 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-32 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |

#### O-DU Applications and Workloads Pillar

##### O-DU Applications and Workloads Pillar Assets

The applicable assets and components defined in the WG11 O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment [i.4] are listed below. The O-DU also has O1 and E2 interfaces as well, which are discussed separately in clauses 7.3.10 and 7.3.4 respectively. The O-DU specific assets are as follows:

ASSET-C-05: O-DU software.

ASSET-C-34: DU-Host (Including software)

ASSET-C-35: DU-Tenant (Including software)

##### O-DU Applications and Workloads Pillar Gap Analysis

Note that in Table 7.3.14-2 below, the O-DU asset(s) are grouped together as the requirements and controls are apply at the NF level.

| App/Workloads ZT Function | Guidance to reach initial stage | Asset(s) | Existing Requirements Mapped to CISA Stage | Assessed Gap to Initial CISA Stage | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Application Access (Authorization) | a) Access authorization capabilities utilize contextual information such as identity, device compliance, and other attributes to make decisions on various requests for accessing application assets. b) Authorization is granted per request with expiration. | ASSET-C-05 ASSET-C-34 ASSET-C-35 | See [i.24] | No gap | Identity only |
| Application Threat Protections | a) Threat protections is integrated into mission-critical application workflows. b) Threat protections safeguard applications against known threats and address some application-specific threats. | ASSET-C-05 ASSET-C-34 ASSET-C-35 | REQ-SEC-ALM-SU-2 REQ-SEC-ALM-SU-3 | No gap |  |
| Accessible Applications | a) Applicable mission-critical applications are available over open public network connections to authorized users as needed. | ASSET-C-05 ASSET-C-34 ASSET-C-35 | See [i.17] | No gap | Out of scope for O-RAN No identified Mission critical applications Requirements specified in 3GPP |
| Secure Application  Development and  Deployment Workflow | a) Infrastructure for development, testing, and production environments (including automation). b) Formal code deployment mechanisms through CI/CD pipelines. c) Access controls support least privilege principles. | ASSET-C-05 ASSET-C-34 ASSET-C-35 | None | Gap | Out of scope for O-RAN Securing infrastructure for development, testing, and production environments is out of scope for O-RAN. |
| Application Security  Testing | a) Utilization of static and dynamic testing methods for security testing. b) Performance of security testing including manual expert analysis before application deployment. | ASSET-C-05 ASSET-C-34 ASSET-C-35 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-1 REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-7b | No gap | Guidance (b) is out of scope for O-RAN. |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | Initiate the automation of application profile (e.g., state, health, and performance) and security monitoring processes for improved log collection, aggregation, and analytics. | ASSET-C-05 ASSET-C-34 ASSET-C-35 | REQ-SEC-SLM-FLD-1 REQ-SEC-SLM-FLD-2 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-5 | Partial gap | These requirements allow for the inclusion of application profile information in security logs. However, the automation of application profile monitoring processes and analytics is not addressed. Log collection, aggregation, and analytics are out of scope. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Periodically modifies application configurations, including location and access parameters, to align with pertinent security and performance objectives. | ASSET-C-05 ASSET-C-34 ASSET-C-35 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as application configuration falls under operator’s responsibilities. |

#### O-DU Identity Pillar

##### O-DU Identity Pillar Assets

The applicable assets and components defined in the WG11 O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment [i.4] are listed below. The O-DU is considered the NF in terms of identity and the O1 or E2 interface is not considered separate. The assets are as follows:

ASSET-C-12a: PNF NF equipment

ASSET-C-34: DU-Host (Including software).

ASSET-C-35: DU-Tenant (Including software).

##### O-DU Identity Pillar Gap Analysis

| Identity ZT Function | Guidance to Reach Initial Stage | Asset(s) | Existing Requirements Mapped to CISA Stage | Assessed Gap to Initial CISA Stage | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Authentication | The system authenticates identity using MFA, which may include passwords as one factor and requires validation of multiple entity attributes (e.g. locale or activity). if there is mutual authentication for internal communications, we consider the stage as INITIAL. For internal interfaces, authentication based on credentials alone (certificate, pre-shared key, etc.) can be considered as meeting INITIAL maturity level. | ASSET-C-12 | See [i.17] | No gap |  |
| Authentication | The system authenticates identity using MFA, which may include passwords as one factor and requires validation of multiple entity attributes (e.g. locale or activity). if there is mutual authentication for internal communications, we consider the stage as INITIAL. For internal interfaces, authentication based on credentials alone (certificate, pre-shared key, etc.) can be considered as meeting INITIAL maturity level. | ASSET-C-34 | See [i.17] | No gap |  |
| Authentication | The system authenticates identity using MFA, which may include passwords as one factor and requires validation of multiple entity attributes (e.g. locale or activity). if there is mutual authentication for internal communications, we consider the stage as INITIAL. For internal interfaces, authentication based on credentials alone (certificate, pre-shared key, etc.) can be considered as meeting INITIAL maturity level. | ASSET-C-35 | See [i.17] | No gap |  |
| Access Management (Authorization) | The system authorizes access, including for privileged access requests, that expires with automated review. This function applies to APIs and user accounts. For applications, static role assignments (e.g. role binding of a service account) with ephemeral tokens can be considered as INITIAL stage. | ASSET-C-12 | See [i.17] | No gap |  |
| Access Management (Authorization) | The system authorizes access, including for privileged access requests, that expires with automated review. This function applies to APIs and user accounts. For applications, static role assignments (e.g. role binding of a service account) with ephemeral tokens can be considered as INITIAL stage. | ASSET-C-34 | See [i.17] | No gap |  |
| Access Management (Authorization) | The system authorizes access, including for privileged access requests, that expires with automated review. This function applies to APIs and user accounts. For applications, static role assignments (e.g. role binding of a service account) with ephemeral tokens can be considered as INITIAL stage. | ASSET-C-35 | See [i.17] | No gap |  |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | Collecting user and entity activity logs. Performing Routine Analysis: Conduct regular manual analysis of the logs. Implement some automated analysis, with limited correlation between different log types. | ASSET-C-12a | REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-3 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-13 | Partial gap | Security log requirements enable generation of security logs, but analysis, automation, and correlation are not specified. Analysis, automation, and correlation are considered out of scope for O-RAN. As specified in [i.31], SIEM is not within the O-RAN Alliance's scope and is not defined by the O-RAN Alliance. |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | Collecting user and entity activity logs. Performing Routine Analysis: Conduct regular manual analysis of the logs. Implement some automated analysis, with limited correlation between different log types. | ASSET-C-34 | REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-3 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-13 | Partial gap | Security log requirements enable generation of security logs, but analysis, automation, and correlation are not specified. Analysis, automation, and correlation are considered out of scope for O-RAN. As specified in [i.31], SIEM is not within the O-RAN Alliance's scope and is not defined by the O-RAN Alliance. |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | Collecting user and entity activity logs. Performing Routine Analysis: Conduct regular manual analysis of the logs. Implement some automated analysis, with limited correlation between different log types. | ASSET-C-35 | REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-3 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-13 | Partial gap | Security log requirements enable generation of security logs, but analysis, automation, and correlation are not specified. Analysis, automation, and correlation are considered out of scope for O-RAN. As specified in [i.31], SIEM is not within the O-RAN Alliance's scope and is not defined by the O-RAN Alliance. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Manually orchestrates privileged and external identities. Automates orchestration of non-privileged users. Automates orchestration of self-managed entities. | ASSET-C-12a | None | Gap | Out of scope, as Identities orchestration fall under the operator’s responsibilities |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Manually orchestrates privileged and external identities. Automates orchestration of non-privileged users. Automates orchestration of self-managed entities. | ASSET-C-34 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as Identities orchestration fall under the operator’s responsibilities |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Manually orchestrates privileged and external identities. Automates orchestration of non-privileged users. Automates orchestration of self-managed entities. | ASSET-C-35 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as Identities orchestration fall under the operator’s responsibilities |

#### O-DU Networks Pillar

##### O-DU Networks Pillar Assets

Currently there are no applicable assets or components defined in the WG11 O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment [i.4] for O-DU Network pillar.

##### O-DU Networks Pillar Gap Analysis

No gap analysis required.

#### O-DU Devices Pillar

##### O-DU Devices Pillar Assets

The applicable assets and components defined in the WG11 O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment [i.4]. The O-DU specific assets are as follows:

ASSET-C-12a: PNF NF equipment

##### O-DU Devices Pillar Gap Analysis

| Devices ZT Function | Guidance to Reach Initial Stage | Asset(s) | Existing Requirements Mapped to CISA Stage | Assessed Gap to Initial CISA Stage | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Policy Enforcement and Compliance Monitoring | Basic Device characteristics visibility. Basic policy enforcement mechanism for managing software configurations or vulnerabilities | ASSET-C-12 | REQ-SEC-TAP-5 REQ-SEC-SLM-NET-EVT-1 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-1 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-3 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-5 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-6 See [i.17] | No gap |  |
| Resource Access (Authorization) | Some visibility into devices or virtual assets’ characteristics to approve resource access | ASSET-C-12 | REQ-SEC-SLM-NET-EVT-1 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-6 | No gap |  |
| Device Threat Protection | Some automated processes for deploying and updating threat protection capabilities to devices and to virtual assets with limited policy enforcement and compliance monitoring integration. | ASSET-C-12 | REQ-SEC-SLM-NET-EVT-1 | Partial gap | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG applies to VNF/CNF and not PNFs |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | Use digital identifiers alongside a manual inventory and endpoint monitoring of devices when available Automated analysis: Ensure some deices and virtual assets (e.g., software-based scanning) for anomaly detection based on risk. | ASSET-C-12a | None | Gap | Out of scope, as endpoint inventory management fall under the operator’s responsibility. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Utilization of monitoring and enforcement mechanisms to identify and manually disconnect or isolate non-compliant devices and virtual assets. | ASSET-C-12a | None | Gap | Out of scope, as disconnecting or isolating non-compliant devices and virtual assets fall under the operator’s responsibility. |

### O-RU Gap Analysis

#### O-RU Data Pillar

##### O-RU Data Pillar Assets

The applicable assets defined in the WG11 O-RAN Security Threat Modelling and Risk Assessment [i.4] are listed below.

The unique assets associated with the O-RU are:

ASSET-D-01: Critical S-Plane Data

ASSET-D-02: Critical M-Plane Data transported over Fronthaul

ASSET-D-04: Critical C-Plane Data

ASSET-D-05: Critical Fronthaul U-Plane data

ASSET-D-06: Reference signals, synchronization signal and channels in downlink and uplink between O-RU and UE

ASSET-D-16: X.509 certificates

ASSET-D-17: Private keys

ASSET-D-18: O-RAN components associated and configuration data.

ASSET-D-20: Credentials (Administrators)

ASSET-D-23: Patches for vulnerable SW components

ASSET-D-24: NETCONF Configuration Access Control Model datastores.

ASSET-D-29: Security event log files.

ASSET-D-32: Cryptographic keys used during secure boot

##### O-RU Data Pillar Gap Analysis

| Data ZT Function | Guidance to reach initial stage | Asset(s) | Existing Requirements mapped to CISA stage | Assessed Gap to Initial CISA Stage | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-01 | None | Gap | Authentication and authorization controls not defined |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-02 | None | Gap | Authentication and authorization controls not defined |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-04 | None | Gap | Authentication and authorization controls not defined |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-05 | None | Gap | Authentication and authorization controls not defined |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-06 | None | Gap | Authentication and authorization controls not defined |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-16 | None | Gap | Authentication and authorization controls not defined |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-17 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-13 SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-4 Clause 5.3.5 [i.17] | No gap |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-18 | None | Gap | Authentication and authorization controls not defined |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-20 | REQ-SEC-PASS-1 SEC-CTL-PASS-1 SEC-CTL-PASS-2 SEC-CTL-PASS-3 | Gap | Authorization controls not defined |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-23 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-11 SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-1 | No gap |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-24 | None | Gap | Authentication and authorization controls not defined |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-29 | REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-6 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESM-3 REQ-SEC-TESR-1 REQ-SEC-TESR-5 REQ-SEC-TESR-7 REQ-SEC-TESR-9 REQ-SEC-TESR-11 | No gap |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-32 | None | Gap | There are requirements for secure storage and boot, but not access of key material. |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-01 | REQ-SEC-OFSP-8 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-02 | See [i.26] | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-04 | REQ-SEC-OFCP-4 SEC-CTL-OFCP-1 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-05 | Clause 6.6 [i.17] | No gap | PDCP provides confidentiality |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-06 | Clause 5.3.5 [i.17] | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-16 | REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-13 See [i.24],[i.25] | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-17 | REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1 REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-13 See [i.24],[i.25] | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-18 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-13 | Possible gap | Requirement is too general |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-20 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-13 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-23 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-10 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-24 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-13 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-29 | REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-6 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-7 REQ-SEC-TESR-1 REQ-SEC-TESR-11 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESM-2 REQ-SEC-SLM-SST-2 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest. b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-32 | None | Gap |  |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | Utilizes data inventory management, data categorization, data encryption, and access attempts information with some automated analysis and correlation to obtain visibility. | ASSET-D-01 ASSET-D-02 ASSET-D-04 ASSET-D-05 ASSET-D-06 ASSET-D-16 ASSET-D-17 ASSET-D-18 ASSET-D-20 ASSET-D-23 ASSET-D-24 ASSET-D-29 ASSET-D-32 | REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-1 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-2 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-3 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-6 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-7 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-8 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-5 | Partial gap | This is a partial gap, as the listed requirements address logging for data encryption and access attempts information. However, there are no requirements for providing information for: Data inventory management Data categorization. Creating and providing the required information is. within scope. However, the collection, analysis, and correlation of this information to achieve visibility are considered out of scope for O-RAN. As specified in [i.31], SIEM is not within the O-RAN Alliance's scope and is not defined by the O-RAN Alliance. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-01 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-02 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-04 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-05 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-06 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-16 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-17 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-18 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-20 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-23 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-24 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-29 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-32 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |

#### O-RU Application and Workloads Pillar

##### O-RU Application and Workloads Pillar Assets

The applicable assets and components defined in the WG11 O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment [i.4] are listed below. The O-RU specific assets are as follows:

ASSET-C-06: O-RU software.

ASSET-C-32: O-RU Host

ASSET-C-33: O-RU Tenant (Shared Resource Operator)

##### O-RU Applications and Workloads Pillar Gap Analysis

Note that in Table 7.3.15-2 below, the O-RU asset(s) are grouped together as the requirements and controls are apply at the NF level.

| App/Workloads ZT Function | Guidance to reach initial stage | Asset(s) | Existing Requirements mapped to CISA stage | Assessed Gap to Initial CISA Stage | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Application Access (Authorization) | a) Access authorization capabilities utilize contextual information such as identity, device compliance, and other attributes to make decisions on various requests for accessing application assets. b) Authorization is granted per request with expiration. | ASSET-C-06 ASSET-C-32 ASSET-C-33 | See [i.24] REQ-SEC-SharedORU-1 REQ-SEC-SharedORU-2 | No gap | Identity only |
| Application Threat Protections | a) Threat protection is integrated into mission-critical application workflows. b) Threat protections safeguard applications against known threats and address some application-specific threats. | ASSET-C-06 ASSET-C-32 ASSET-C-33 | REQ-SEC-ORU-1 REQ-SEC-ORU-2 REQ-SEC-ALM-SU-2  REQ-SEC-ALM-SU-3 | No gap |  |
| Accessible Applications | a) Applicable mission-critical applications are available over open public network connections to authorized users as needed. | ASSET-C-06 ASSET-C-32 ASSET-C-33 | See [i.17] | No gap | Out of scope for O-RAN No identified Mission critical applications Requirements specified in 3GPP |
| Secure Application Development and Deployment Workflow (New Function) | a) Infrastructure for development, testing, and production environments (including automation).  b) Formal code deployment mechanisms through CI/CD pipelines. c) Access controls support least privilege principles. | ASSET-C-06 ASSET-C-32 ASSET-C-33 | None | Gap | Out of scope for O-RAN Securing infrastructure for development, testing, and production environments is out of scope for O-RAN. |
| Application Security  Testing (Formerly  Application Security) | a) Utilization of static and dynamic testing methods for security testing.  b) Performance of security testing including manual expert analysis before application deployment. | ASSET-C-06 ASSET-C-32 ASSET-C-33 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-1 REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-7b | No gap | Guidance (b) is out of scope for O-RAN. |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | Initiate the automation of application profile (e.g., state, health, and performance) and security monitoring processes for improved log collection, aggregation, and analytics. | ASSET-C-06 ASSET-C-32 ASSET-C-33 | REQ-SEC-SLM-FLD-1 REQ-SEC-SLM-FLD-2 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-5 | Partial gap | These requirements allow for the inclusion of application profile information in security logs. However, the automation of application profile monitoring processes and analytics is not addressed. Log collection, aggregation, and analytics are out of scope. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Periodically modifies application configurations, including location and access parameters, to align with pertinent security and performance objectives. | ASSET-C-06 ASSET-C-32 ASSET-C-33 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as application configuration falls under operator’s responsibilities. |

#### O-RU Identity Pillar

##### O-RU Identity Pillar Assets

The applicable assets and components defined in the WG11 O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment [i.4] are listed below. The O-RU is considered as a PNF in terms of identity and O-RU specific assets are as follows.

ASSET-C-12a: PNF NF equipment

ASSET-C-32: O-RU Host

ASSET-C-33: O-RU Tenant (Shared Resource Operator)

##### O-RU Identity Pillar Gap Analysis

| Networks ZT Function | Guidance to reach initial stage | Asset(s) | Existing Requirements mapped to CISA stage | Assessed Gap to Initial CISA Stage | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Authentication | The system authenticates identity using MFA, which may include passwords as one factor and requires validation of multiple entity attributes (e.g. locale or activity). a) If there is mutual authentication for internal communications, we consider the stage as INITIAL. b) For internal interfaces, authentication based on credentials alone (certificate, pre-shared key, etc.) can be considered as meeting INITIAL maturity level. | ASSET-C-12 | See [i.17] | No gap |  |
| Authentication | The system authenticates identity using MFA, which may include passwords as one factor and requires validation of multiple entity attributes (e.g. locale or activity). a) If there is mutual authentication for internal communications, we consider the stage as INITIAL. b) For internal interfaces, authentication based on credentials alone (certificate, pre-shared key, etc.) can be considered as meeting INITIAL maturity level. | ASSET-C-32 | See [i.17] | No gap |  |
| Authentication | The system authenticates identity using MFA, which may include passwords as one factor and requires validation of multiple entity attributes (e.g. locale or activity). a) If there is mutual authentication for internal communications, we consider the stage as INITIAL. b) For internal interfaces, authentication based on credentials alone (certificate, pre-shared key, etc.) can be considered as meeting INITIAL maturity level. | ASSET-C-33 | See [i.17] | No gap |  |
| Access Management (Authorization) | The system authorizes access, including for privileged access requests, that expires with automated review. This function applies to APIs and user accounts.  For applications, static role assignments (e.g. role binding of a service account) with ephemeral tokens can be considered as INITIAL stage. | ASSET-C-12 | See [i.17] | No gap |  |
| Access Management (Authorization) | The system authorizes access, including for privileged access requests, that expires with automated review. This function applies to APIs and user accounts.  For applications, static role assignments (e.g. role binding of a service account) with ephemeral tokens can be considered as INITIAL stage. | ASSET-C-32 | See [i.17] | No gap |  |
| Access Management (Authorization) | The system authorizes access, including for privileged access requests, that expires with automated review. This function applies to APIs and user accounts.  For applications, static role assignments (e.g. role binding of a service account) with ephemeral tokens can be considered as INITIAL stage. | ASSET-C-33 | See [i.17] | No gap |  |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | Collecting user and entity activity logs. Performing Routine Analysis: Conduct regular manual analysis of the logs. Implement some automated analysis, with limited correlation between different log types. | ASSET-C-12a | REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-3 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-13 | Partial gap | Security log requirements enable generation of security logs, but analysis, automation, and correlation are not specified.  Analysis, automation, and correlation are considered out of scope for O-RAN. As specified in [i.31], SIEM is not within the O-RAN Alliance's scope and is not defined by the O-RAN Alliance. |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | Collecting user and entity activity logs. Performing Routine Analysis: Conduct regular manual analysis of the logs. Implement some automated analysis, with limited correlation between different log types. | ASSET-C-32 | REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-3 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-13 | Partial gap | Security log requirements enable generation of security logs, but analysis, automation, and correlation are not specified.  Analysis, automation, and correlation are considered out of scope for O-RAN. As specified in [i.31], SIEM is not within the O-RAN Alliance's scope and is not defined by the O-RAN Alliance. |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | Collecting user and entity activity logs. Performing Routine Analysis: Conduct regular manual analysis of the logs. Implement some automated analysis, with limited correlation between different log types. | ASSET-C-33 | REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-3 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-13 | Partial gap | Security log requirements enable generation of security logs, but analysis, automation, and correlation are not specified.  Analysis, automation, and correlation are considered out of scope for O-RAN. As specified in [i.31], SIEM is not within the O-RAN Alliance's scope and is not defined by the O-RAN Alliance. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Manually orchestrates privileged and external identities. Automates orchestration of non-privileged users. Automates orchestration of self-managed entities. | ASSET-C-12a | None | Gap | Out of scope, as Identities orchestration fall under the operator’s responsibilities |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Manually orchestrates privileged and external identities. Automates orchestration of non-privileged users. Automates orchestration of self-managed entities. | ASSET-C-32 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as Identities orchestration fall under the operator’s responsibilities |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Manually orchestrates privileged and external identities. Automates orchestration of non-privileged users. Automates orchestration of self-managed entities. | ASSET-C-33 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as Identities orchestration fall under the operator’s responsibilities |

#### O-RU Networks Pillar

##### O-RU Networks Pillar Assets

Currently there are no applicable assets or components defined in the WG11 O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment [i.4] for O-RU Network pillar.

##### O-RU Networks Pillar Gap Analysis

No Gap Analysis required.

#### O-RU Devices Pillar

##### O-RU Devices Pillar Assets

The applicable assets and components defined in the WG11 O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment [i.4] are listed below. The O-RU specific assets are as follows:

ASSET-C-12a: PNF NF equipment

##### O-RU Devices Pillar Gap Analysis

| Devices ZT Function | Guidance to reach initial stage | Asset(s) | Existing Requirements mapped to CISA stage | Assessed Gap to Initial CISA Stage | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Policy Enforcement and Compliance Monitoring | Basic Device characteristics visibility. Basic policy enforcement mechanism for managing software configurations or vulnerabilities | ASSET-C-12 | REQ-SEC-TAP-5 REQ-SEC-SLM-NET-EVT-1 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-1 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-3 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-5 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-6 See [i.17] | No gap |  |
| Resource Access (Authorization) | Some visibility into devices or virtual assets’ characteristics to approve resource access | ASSET-C-12 | REQ-SEC-SLM-NET-EVT-1 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-6 | No gap |  |
| Device Threat Protection | Some automated processes for deploying and updating threat protection capabilities to devices and to virtual assets with limited policy enforcement and compliance monitoring integration. | ASSET-C-12 | REQ-SEC-SLM-NET-EVT-1 | Partial gap | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG applies to VNF/CNF and not PNFs |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | Use digital identifiers alongside a manual inventory and endpoint monitoring of devices when available Automated analysis: Ensure some devices and virtual assets (e.g., software-based scanning) for anomaly detection based on risk. | ASSET-C-12a | None | Gap | Out of scope, as endpoint inventory management fall under the operator’s responsibility. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Utilization of monitoring and enforcement mechanisms to identify and manually disconnect or isolate non-compliant devices and virtual assets. | ASSET-C-12a | None | Gap | Out of scope, as disconnecting or isolating non-compliant devices and virtual assets fall under the operator’s responsibility. |

### Open Fronthaul Interface Gap Analysis

#### Open Fronthaul Interface Data Pillar

##### Open Fronthaul Interface Data Pillar Assets

The applicable assets defined in the WG11 Threat Modelling and Risk Assessment document [i.4] are as following:

ASSET-D-01:  Critical S-Plane Data

ASSET-D-02: Critical Management-Plane data transported over the Fronthaul interface such as: maintenance and monitoring signals, data collected related to O-RU operations, logs (troubleshooting, trace)

ASSET-D-04: Critical C-Plane data

ASSET-D-05: Critical Fronthaul U-Plane data

ASSET-D-16: X.509 certificates in O-RAN network such as those used for O-RAN components for authentication, encryption, and signing.

ASSET-D-17: Security private keys in O-RAN network such as those used for O-RAN components for authentication, encryption, and signing.

##### Open Fronthaul Interface Data Pillar Gap Analysis

| Data ZT Function | Guidance to reach initial stage | Asset(s) | Existing Requirements Mapped to CISA Stage | Assessed Gap | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | Open Fronthaul Interface Data Pillar Assets |  |  |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-01 | REQ-SEC-OFHPLS-1-- REQ-SEC-OFHPLS-3 SEC-CTL-OFHPLS-1-- SEC-CTL-OFHPLS-5 | No gap |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-02 | REQ-SEC-OFHPLS-1-- REQ-SEC-OFHPLS-3 SEC-CTL-OFHPLS-1-- SEC-CTL-OFHPLS-5 | No gap |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-04 | REQ-SEC-OFHPLS-1-- REQ-SEC-OFHPLS-3 SEC-CTL-OFHPLS-1-- SEC-CTL-OFHPLS-5 | No gap |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-05 | REQ-SEC-OFHPLS-1-- REQ-SEC-OFHPLS-3 SEC-CTL-OFHPLS-1-- SEC-CTL-OFHPLS-5 | No gap |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-16 | None | Gap |  |
| Data Access | a) Automated data access control  b) Elements of least privileges are incorporated with the automated data access control | ASSET-D-17 | None | Gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | Open Fronthaul Interface Assets |  |  |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-01 | REQ-SEC-OFSP-8 SEC-CTL-OFSP-4 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | Asset-D-02 | Table 5.4-1 refer [i.26] | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | Asset-D-04 | REQ-SEC-OFCP-4 SEC-CTL-OFCP-1 SEC-CTL-OFHMECC-1--SEC-CTL-OFHMECC-5 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | Asset-D-05 | SEC-CTL-OFUP-1 Clause 5.2.5.2.2.1 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-16 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-13 SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-2 | No gap |  |
| Data Encryption | a) Encrypted data in transit and, where feasible, data at rest.  b) Key management policies and secure encryption keys are beginning to be formalized. | ASSET-D-17 | REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-13 SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-2 | No gap |  |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | Utilizes data inventory management, data categorization, data encryption, and access attempts information with some automated analysis and correlation to obtain visibility. | ASSET-D-01 ASSET-D-02 ASSET-D-04 ASSET-D-05 ASSET-D-16 ASSET-D-17 | REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-1 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-2 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-3 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-6 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-7 REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-8 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-4 REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-5 | Partial gap | This is a partial gap, as the listed requirements address logging for data encryption and access attempts information. However, there are no requirements for providing information for: Data inventory management Data categorization. Creating and providing the required information is. within scope. However, the collection, analysis, and correlation of this information to achieve visibility are considered out of scope for O-RAN. As specified in [i.31], SIEM is not within the O-RAN Alliance's scope and is not defined by the O-RAN Alliance. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-01 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-02 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-04 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-05 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-16 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Data lifecycle and security policies (e.g., access, usage, storage, encryption, configurations, protections, backups, categorization, sanitization) are automated. | ASSET-D-17 | None | Gap | Out of scope, as data lifecycle and security policies fall under the operator's responsibilities. |

#### Open Fronthaul Interface Applications and Workloads Pillar

##### Open Fronthaul Interface Applications and Workloads Pillar Assets

No asset applicable to specific pillar

#### Open Fronthaul Interface Identity Pillar

##### Open Fronthaul Interface Identity Pillar Assets

No asset applicable to specific pillar

#### Open Fronthaul Interface Networks Pillar

##### Open Fronthaul Interface Networks Pillar Assets

The applicable assets defined in the WG11 Threat Modelling and Risk Assessment document [i.4] are as following:

ASSET-C-24: OFH M-Plane, including protocol stack

ASSET-C-25: OFH CUS-Plane, including protocol stack

##### Open Fronthaul Interface Networks Pillar Gap Analysis

| Networks ZT Function | Guidance to reach initial stage | Asset(s) | Existing Requirements Mapped to CISA Stage | Assessed Gaps | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Traffic Encryption | Encryption for all internal (and preferably external) application traffic, with formalized key management policies and secure encryption keys | ASSET-C-24 | Refer [i.26] | No gap |  |
| Traffic Encryption | Encryption for all internal (and preferably external) application traffic, with formalized key management policies and secure encryption keys | ASSET-C-25 | SEC-CTL-OFHMECC-1-- SEC-CTL-OFHMECC-5 | No gap |  |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | Utilize network monitoring capabilities based on known indicators of compromise, including network enumeration, to develop situational awareness in each environment. Commence correlating telemetry across traffic types and environments to facilitate analysis and threat hunting activities. | ASSET-C-24 | None | Gap | No requirements for providing network monitoring information.  Providing the required information is within scope. However, the collection, analysis, and correlation of this information to achieve visibility are considered out of scope for O-RAN. As specified in [i.31], SIEM is not within the O-RAN Alliance's scope and is not defined by the O-RAN Alliance. |
| Visibility and Analytics Capability | Utilize network monitoring capabilities based on known indicators of compromise, including network enumeration, to develop situational awareness in each environment. Commence correlating telemetry across traffic types and environments to facilitate analysis and threat hunting activities. | ASSET-C-25 | None | Gap | No requirements for providing network monitoring information.  Providing the required information is within scope. However, the collection, analysis, and correlation of this information to achieve visibility are considered out of scope for O-RAN. As specified in [i.31], SIEM is not within the O-RAN Alliance's scope and is not defined by the O-RAN Alliance. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Initiate the use of automated methods to manage the configuration and lifecycle of resources within specific networks or environments. Ensure that all resources have a defined lifetime determined by policies and telemetry data. | ASSET-C-24 | None | Gap | Out of scope, network resource configuration and lifecycle management fall under the operator’s responsibilities. |
| Automation and Orchestration Capability | Initiate the use of automated methods to manage the configuration and lifecycle of resources within specific networks or environments. Ensure that all resources have a defined lifetime determined by policies and telemetry data. | ASSET-C-25 | None | Gap | Out of scope, network resource configuration and lifecycle management fall under the operator’s responsibilities. |

#### Open Fronthaul Interface Devices Pillar

##### Open Fronthaul Devices Pillar Assets

No asset applicable to specific pillar

## WG11 Considerations for Mapping Security Controls to CISA ZTMM

### Mapping to CISA ZTMM

The O-RAN ALLIANCE has made significant progress advancing its security specifications.  Table 7.4.2-1 shows how the currently specified security controls map to the CISA ZTMM stages. Some additional considerations made when mapping O-RAN specifications to the stages are as follows:

- The Devices pillar includes User Equipment and cloud infrastructure devices.
- The Networks pillar includes data-in-transit.
- The Applications pillar includes O-RAN architecture elements, such as O-RAN CNFs, SMO, and rApps/xApps.
- The Data pillar includes data-in-transit, data-at-rest, and data-in-use.

| Pillars and Functions | Traditional | Initial | Advanced | Optimal |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Identity | Passwords | X.509 Certificates, LDAPS, mTLS, IEEE 802.1X, NACM, Principle of least privilege, MFA | OAuth 2.0, CMPv2 |  |
| Devices |  | Resource management | HSM, Container hardening |  |
| Networks | SSH, SFTP | TLS, FTPES | API security, MACsec | NFs secured as micro-perimeters |
| Applications and Workloads |  | Digital signatures, Volumetric DDoS Protection | Secure On-Boarding |  |
| Data |  | TLS for data-in-transit |  |  |
| Visibility and Analytics |  | Secure Logging |  |  |
| Automation and Orchestration |  |  |  |  |
| Governance |  | SBOM, GSMA NESAS | AI/ML security |  |

> NOTE:	Bold indicates an O-RAN specifications roadmap feature currently being addressed in a WG11 security work item.

# ZTA Threats

## Mapping of the existing Security Principles to ZT Tenets

In the O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment TR [i.4] all Threats are being mapped to Security Principles (see [i.4] clause 8.2). In order to analyse which of the Threats are related to ZT tenets and whether they are properly covered by security principles, the security principles need to be mapped to the ZT tenets. [i.4] clause 8 provides such a mapping. Table 8.2-1 represents this mapping, which has been updated for the O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment TR.

| Security Principles | ZT Tenets |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Security Principles | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 |
| SP-AUTH - Mutual Authentication |  | X |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-ACC - Access Control | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-CRYPTO - Secure cryptographic, key management and PKI |  | X |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-TCOMM - Trusted Communication |  | X |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-SS - Secure Storage | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-SB - Secure boot and self-configuration | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-UPDT - Secure Update |  | X |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-RECO - Recoverability & Backup |  | X |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-OPNS - Security management of risks in open-source components |  | X |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-ASSU - Security Assurance |  | X |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-PRV - Privacy |  | X |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-SLC - Continuous security development, testing, logging, monitoring and vulnerability handling |  | X |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-ISO - Robust Isolation |  | X |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-PHY - Physical security | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-CLD - Secure cloud computing and virtualization |  | X |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-ROB - Robustness |  | X |  |  |  |  |  |
| SP-IDM - O-Cloud ID secure management | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |

> NOTE 1:	X: mapping existing in [i.4].
> NOTE 2:  Access to resources is determined by dynamic policy which is mapped in the above Table 8.2-1 for SP-ACC - Access Control (Tenet 4) need to be discussed further.

## Existing defined threats

Existing threats are defined in O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment TR [i.4].

## New threats

Threats for new assets defined in this document will be identified in their respective WG11 Work Items.

# Threat analysis

Existing threats already have analysis completed in O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment TR [i.4]. Threats for new assets will be analyzed in their respective WG11 Work Items and Technical Reports.

# Risk assessment

Existing threats already have risk assessment completed in O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment TR [i.4]. Risk assessment for new threats will be done in their respective WG11 Work Items.

# Recommendations

## Preliminary Guidance for Future Work

The following preliminary recommendations from this work item will be addressed in future updates to this technical report and other specifications:

- Complete threat and risk assessment: Update clauses 8, 9 and 10 with identification of new threats and threat analysis and risk assessment for the newly identified threats.
- Conduct Gap Analysis: Perform a gap analysis for different O-RAN assets based on the guidelines in clause 6.2 and update clause 7.3 accordingly.
- Status: Gap analysis on O-RAN architecture elements and O-RAN interfaces is complete.
- Propose ZTA Security Requirements: Based on the conducted gap analysis, propose a list of Zero Trust Architecture (ZTA) security requirements for different O-RAN assets after consultation with the relevant WG11 Work Items and update clause 11 with those recommended security requirements.
- ZTA WI should identify which requirements are in-scope for O-RAN ZTA but not in-scope for O-RAN specifications.
- ZTA WI should determine whether security specifications for human administrative access to O-RAN architecture elements are in-scope for O-RAN specifications.
- Status: Consultation with the respective Work Items is in progress. Based on the consultation, gaps will either be resolved or considered out of scope for O-RAN.
- Define relevant terms: ZTA WI should define the terms 'micro-perimeter' and 'micro-segmentation' in the context of O-RAN, while considering exiting definitions from authoritative sources.
- Outcome: Micro-segmentation term is defined in the present document.
- Identify Continuous Monitoring Needs: Based on the study of NIST ZT tenets applicability in clause 4.2 and the target ZTA security requirements in clause 6.2, continuous monitoring is identified as a critical aspect of ZTA for the following reasons:
- It is critical to fully address tenet 4, 5 and 7.
- It is critical to fully address the following CISA ZTMM functions:
- Risk assessment function and visibility and analytics capability in the Identity pillar.
- Asset & supply chain risk management function, resource access function, and visibility and analytics capability in the Devices pillar.
- Network traffic management and visibility and analytics capability in the Networks pillar.
- Application access and visibility and analytics capability in the Applications and Workloads pillar.
- Visibility and analytics capability in the Data pillar.
Therefore, we recommend conducting a comprehensive study on continuous monitoring in O-RAN as a separate supporting work item or work items. This WI or WIs should define the critical characteristics and attributes that need to be continuously captured in different O-RAN components to address tenets 4, 5, and 7, as well as the CISA ZTMM functions and capabilities listed above.

Outcome: WG11 Continuous Security Monitoring Work Item was initiated in August 2024 and the first version of the Continuous Security Monitoring technical report will be published in the March 2025 train.

- Clarify access on a per-session basis: ZTA WI should provide a description of the phrase “per-session basis access” in the context of ZTA for O-RAN ALLIANCE.
Outcome: Additional description on NIST ZT tenet 3 and “per-session basis access” is added to the present document.

## Identified Gaps Out of Scope for O-RAN

This clause outlines all the gaps identified in Clause 7.3 that are necessary to address in order to achieve a zero trust architecture but have been determined to fall outside the scope of O-RAN.

### Transversal Functions

| CISA ZT Function | Guidance to reach initial stage | Asset(s) |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Data ZT Function |  |  |
| … |  |  |
| App/ Workloads ZT Function |  |  |
| … |  |  |
| Identity ZT Function |  |  |
| … |  |  |
| Networks ZT Function |  |  |
| … |  |  |
| Devices ZT Function |  |  |
| … |  |  |

### xApp and Near-RT RIC

| CISA ZT Function | Guidance to reach initial stage | Asset(s) |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Data ZT Function |  |  |
| … |  |  |
| App/ Workloads ZT Function |  |  |
| … |  |  |
| Identity ZT Function |  |  |
| … |  |  |
| Networks ZT Function |  |  |
| … |  |  |
| Devices ZT Function |  |  |
| … |  |  |

### E2 Interface

Void

### Y1 Interface

Void

### rApp and Non-RT RIC

Void

### A1 Interface

Void

### R1 Interface

Void

### SMO

Void

### O1 Interface

Void

### O-Cloud

Void

### O2 Interface

Void

### O-CU

Void

### O-DU

Void

### O-RU

Void

### Open Fronthaul Interface

Void

## 11.3   Identified Gaps Requiring No Action

This clause lists all the gaps identified in clause 7.3 that have been reviewed and determined to require no further action, along with the rationale behind this decision.

| CISA ZT Function | Guidance to reach initial stage | Asset(s) | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Data ZT Function |  |  |  |
| … |  |  |  |
| App/ Workloads ZT Function |  |  |  |
| … |  |  |  |
| Identity ZT Function |  |  |  |
| … |  |  |  |
| Networks ZT Function |  |  |  |
| … |  |  |  |
| Devices ZT Function |  |  |  |
| … |  |  |  |

| CISA ZT Function | Guidance to reach initial stage | Asset(s) | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Data ZT Function |  |  |  |
| … |  |  |  |
| App/ Workloads ZT Function |  |  |  |
| … |  |  |  |
| Identity ZT Function |  |  |  |
| … |  |  |  |
| Networks ZT Function |  |  |  |
| … |  |  |  |
| Devices ZT Function |  |  |  |
| … |  |  |  |

Void

Void

Void

Void

Void

Void

Void

Void

Void

Void

Void

Void

Void


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG11.TS.SRCS.0-R004-v13.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG11.TS.SRCS.0-R004-v13.00"
---

### 4.2.1 Void

### 4.2.2 Void

### 4.2.3 Void

# Security Requirements and Controls

## O-RAN Architecture Elements

### Service Management and Orchestration (SMO)

#### Security Requirements

##### SMO

REQ-SEC-SMO-1: SMO shall support authentication of SMO functions.

REQ-SEC-SMO-2: SMO shall support authentication of SMO External Consumers.

REQ-SEC-SMO-3: SMO functions shall support authorization as a resource owner/server and client for internal requests.

REQ-SEC-SMO-4: SMO shall support authorization of the service requests received from SMO External Consumers.

REQ-SEC-SMO-5: SMO shall be able to recover, without catastrophic failure, from a volumetric DDoS attack across the O2 interface, due to anomalous behaviour or malicious intent.

REQ-SEC-SMO-6: SMO shall be able to recover, without catastrophic failure, from a volumetric DDoS attack across an SMO External Interface, due to anomalous behaviour or malicious intent.

REQ-SEC-SMO-7: Each SMO function shall be able to recover, without catastrophic failure, from a volumetric DDoS attack during SMO Internal Communications, due to anomalous behaviour or malicious intent.

REQ-SEC-SMO-8: SMO shall support encryption to provide confidentiality and integrity of data at rest.

> NOTE: Support for encryption of data at rest can be implemented native to the SMO or with encryption capabilities provided by the platform running the SMO.

##### SMOS Communication

REQ-SEC-SMO-Internal-1: SMOS Communication shall support confidentiality, integrity, and replay protection for data-in-transit between SMOS Producers and SMOS Consumers.

REQ-SEC-SMO-Internal-2: SMOS Communication shall support mutual authentication between SMOS Producers and SME, and between SMOS Consumers and SME.

##### SMO External Interfaces

SMOS can expose SMO External Interfaces to SMO External Consumers and Producers of SMO services and data [2]. SMO External Interfaces are not specified by O-RAN but shall meet security requirements specified in this clause.

REQ-SEC-SMO-External-1: SMOS exposing a SMO External Interface shall support confidentiality, integrity, and replay protection for data-in-transit with a SMO External Consumer or Producer.

REQ-SEC-SMO-External-2: SMOS exposing a SMO External Interface shall support mutual authentication with a SMO External Consumer or Producer..

REQ-SEC-SMO-External-3: SMOS exposing a SMO External Interface shall support authorization with the principle of least privilege for the SMO External Consumer or Producer.

##### SMO Logging

The below mentioned requirements are referring to securing the event logs in SMO.

REQ-SEC-SMO-Log-1: SMO shall support forwarding of event logs to a mutually authenticated remote location.

REQ-SEC-SMO-Log-2: SMO shall provide confidentiality and integrity protection for event logs transferred to a remote server.

REQ-SEC-SMO-Log-3: SMO may support configuration settings that allow selection of remote servers to securely transfer the event logs.

REQ-SEC-SMO-Log-4: SMO shall be capable of logging the event logs locally on itself.

REQ-SEC-SMO-Log-5: SMO shall provide confidentiality protection for the locally stored event logs.

REQ-SEC-SMO-Log-6: SMO shall provide integrity protection for the locally stored event logs.

REQ-SEC-SMO-Log-7: SMO shall support access to event logs by authorized external services.

REQ-SEC-SMO-Log-8: SMO shall be capable of forwarding event logs to an authorized remote location.

REQ-SEC-SMO-Log-9: SMO shall be able to record all the security related log events.

REQ-SEC-SMO-Log-10: The security logs of SMO should be separate from other system logs.

REQ-SEC-SMO-Log-11: The SMO shall permit only authorized configuration changes to logging level(s) of any component on the SMO.

REQ-SEC-SMO-Log-12: SMO shall support access to event logs by authorized internal services.

##### NFO and FOCOM

The below mentioned requirements are referring to securing the NFO and FOCOM in SMO.

REQ-SEC-NFO-FOCOM-1: NFO and FOCOM shall support confidentiality, integrity, and replay protection.

REQ-SEC-NFO-FOCOM-2: Void

REQ-SEC-NFO-FOCOM-3: NFO shall support mutual authentication with the O-Cloud DMS on the O2 interface.

REQ-SEC-NFO-FOCOM-4: FOCOM shall support mutual authentication with the O-Cloud IMS on the O2 interface.

REQ-SEC-NFO-FOCOM-5: NFO and FOCOM shall support authorization with the principle of least privilege for access attempts by O-Cloud service consumers, on a per-session basis.

REQ-SEC-NFO-FOCOM-6: NFO shall be able to recover, without catastrophic failure, from a volumetric DDoS attack due to anomalous behaviour or malicious intent.

REQ-SEC-NFO-FOCOM-7: Void

REQ-SEC-NFO FOCOM-8: FOCOM shall be able to recover, without catastrophic failure, from a volumetric DDoS attack due to anomalous behaviour or malicious intent.

##### SME

REQ-SEC-SME-1: SME shall support mutual authentication with a SMOS Consumer requesting access to a SMOS Producer.

REQ-SEC-SME-2: SME shall support mutual authentication with a SMO External System requesting access to SMOS Producer.

REQ-SEC-SME-3: SME shall support mutual authentication with a SMOS Producer.

REQ-SEC-SME-4: SME shall support authorization of a SMOS Consumer requesting access to a SMOS Producer.

REQ-SEC-SME-5: SME shall support authorization of a SMO External System requesting access to a SMOS Producer.

REQ-SEC-SME-6: SME shall support confidentiality, integrity, and replay protection.

REQ-SEC-SME-7: SME shall be able to recover, without catastrophic failure, from a volumetric DDoS attack from another SMOS.

REQ-SEC-SME-8: SME shall be able to recover, without catastrophic failure, from a volumetric DDoS attack across a SMO External Interface.

REQ-SEC-SME-9: SME shall support authorization of R1 service requests.

##### SMOS

REQ-SEC-SMOS-1: SMOS Producers and SMOS Consumers shall support mutual authentication with the SME.

REQ-SEC-SMOS-2: SMOS Producer shall support authorization of a SMOS Consumer using the SME authorization service.

REQ-SEC-SMOS-3: SMOS Producers and SMOS Consumers shall support confidentiality, integrity, and replay protection.

REQ-SEC-SMOS-4: SMOS Producers and SMOS Consumers shall be able to recover, without catastrophic failure, from a volumetric DDoS attack from SMOS Communication.

REQ-SEC-SMOS-5: SMOS Producers and SMOS Consumers shall support encryption to provide confidentiality and integrity of data at rest.

> NOTE: Support for encryption of data at rest can be implemented native to the SMOS or with encryption capabilities provided by the platform running the SMOS.

##### DME

REQ-SEC-DME-1: DME shall support authentication for a SMOS Consumer requesting access to Data.

REQ-SEC-DME-2: DME shall support authentication of an SMO External System requesting access to Data.

REQ-SEC-DME-3: DME shall support authorization for a SMOS Consumer requesting access to Data.

REQ-SEC-DME-4: DME shall support authorization for an SMO External System requesting access to Data.

REQ-SEC-DME-5: DME shall support confidentiality, integrity, and replay protection.

REQ-SEC-DME-6: DME shall be able to recover, without catastrophic failure, from a volumetric DDoS attack from another SMOS.

REQ-SEC-DME-7: DME shall be able to recover, without catastrophic failure, from a volumetric DDoS attack across SMO External Interface.

#### Security Controls

SEC-CTL-SMO-1: SMO may support OAuth 2.0 authorization server and provide a token end-point, as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.7.

SEC-CTL-SMO-2: Void

SEC-CTL-SMO-3: SMO shall support OAuth 2.0 resource owner/server, as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.7, for service requests received from other SMO functions.

SEC-CTL-SMO-4: SMO shall support OAuth 2.0 client functionality, as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.7, for service requests to other SMO functions.

SEC-CTL-SMO-5: SMO shall support mutual authentication of SMO functions using mTLS with PKI X.509v3 certificates as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.2.

SEC-CTL-SMO-6: SMO functions may support authentication of other SMO functions using TLS with pre-shared key (PSK) as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.2.

SEC-CTL-SMO-Internal-1: For security protection at the transport layer, SMOS Communication shall support TLS, as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.2.

SEC-CTL-SMO-Internal-2: For mutual authentication between SMOS Producers and SME, and SMOS Consumers and SME, SMOS Communication shall support mTLS, as shown in Figure 5.1.1.2.2-1 and specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.2.

SEC-CTL-SMO-Internal-3: For authentication between SMOS, SMOS Communication may support TLS with pre-shared key (PSK), as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.2.

SEC-CTL-SMO-External-1: SMOS shall support confidentiality and integrity protection of data-in-transit with a SMO External Consumer or Producer using TLS, as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.2.

SEC-CTL-NFO-FOCOM-1: NFO shall support mutual authentication with O-Cloud DMS using mTLS with PKI X.509v3 certificates, as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.2.

SEC-CTL-NFO-FOCOM-2: FOCOM shall support mutual authentication with O-Cloud IMS using mTLS with PKI X.509v3 certificates, as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.2.

SEC-CTL-NFO-FOCOM-3: NFO shall support OAuth 2.0 resource owner/server as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.7, for service requests from O-Cloud resources.

SEC-CTL-NFO-FOCOM-4: FOCOM shall support OAuth 2.0 resource owner/server, as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.7, for service requests from O-Cloud resources.

SEC-CTL-NFO-FOCOM-5: NFO shall support OAuth 2.0 client functionality as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.7, for service requests to O-Cloud resources.

SEC-CTL-NFO-FOCOM-6: FOCOM shall support OAuth 2.0 client functionality, as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.7, for service requests to O-Cloud resources.

SEC-CTL-NFO-FOCOM-7: NFO shall support TLS, as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.2, on the O2 interface.

SEC-CTL-NFO-FOCOM-8: FOCOM shall support TLS, as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.2, on the O2 interface.

SEC-CTL-SME-1: SME shall support mutual authentication using mTLS with PKI X.509v3 certificates, as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.2, with SMOS Producers, SMOS Consumers, and SMO External Systems.

SEC-CTL-SME-2: SME shall support OAuth server role as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.7, for service requests from a SMO Consumer and SMO External System.

SEC-CTL-SME-3: SME shall support TLS, as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.2 for data-in-transit with SMOS Producers, SMOS Consumers, and SMO External Systems.

##### SMOS Producers and SMOS Consumers

SEC-CTL-SMOS-1: SMOS Producers and SMOS Consumers shall support mutual authentication with SME using mTLS with PKI X.509v3 certificates, as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.2.

SEC-CTL-SMOS-2: SMOS Producers shall support OAuth 2.0 resource owner/server role as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.7, for service requests from the SME.

SEC-CTL-SMOS-3: SMOS Consumers shall support OAuth 2.0 client role as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.7, for service requests to the SME.

SEC-CTL-SMOS-4: SMOS Producers and SMOS Consumers shall support TLS, as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.2, for SMOS Communication.

SEC-CTL-DME-1: For data subscription, DME shall support authentication using TLS with X.509 certificate or pre-shared key (PSK), as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.2.

SEC-CTL-DME-2: DME shall support OAuth server role as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.7, for service requests from a SMOS Consumer or SMO External System.

SEC-CTL-DME-3: DME shall support TLS, as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.2 for data-in-transit with SMOS Producer, SMOS Consumer, and SMO External System.

### Non-RT RIC and rApps

#### Requirements

REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-8: The SMO/Non-RT RIC Framework shall support an authorization mechanism for Kafka based protocol, as specified in [85], for data streaming requests between API Producer and API Consumer across R1 interface.

REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-9: rAppIDs shall be unique within the Non-RT RIC runtime environment.

REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-10: rAppIDs shall be generated using strong randomisation methods, as defined in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 5.

> NOTE:	 Strong randomization methods can help resist brute force attacks.
REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-11: The SMO or Non-RT RIC Framework shall support limiting of system resource consumption of rApps, including compute, memory, and storage.

REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-12: The SMO or Non-RT RIC Framework shall support monitoring of system resource consumption of rApps, including compute, memory, and storage.

REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-13: rApp shall request access tokens for R1 services.

REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-14: rApps shall support encryption to provide confidentiality and integrity of data at rest.

> NOTE: Support for encryption of data at rest can be implemented native to the rApp or with encryption capabilities provided by the platform running the rApp.

### Near-RT RIC and xApps

xApp packages shall follow the security requirements and controls in clause 5.3.2.1.

REQ-SEC-XAPP-1: Void

REQ-SEC-XAPP-2: Void

REQ-SEC-XAPP-3: During the xApp registration procedure the xApp identifier (xApp ID) shall be associated with xApp credentials used for authentication.

REQ-SEC-XAPP-4: xApp IDs shall be created ensuring uniqueness.

REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-1: The Near-RT RIC shall support authentication and authorization for data access.

REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-2: The Near-RT RIC shall support enforcement of data access control policies aligned with the principle of least privilege.

REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-2A: Near-RT RIC shall provide confidentiality and integrity protection for Near-RT RIC database(s).

REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-3: The communication between xApps and Near-RT RIC platform APIs shall be mutually authenticated.

REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-4: Near-RT RIC architecture shall provide an authorization framework for the consumption of the services exposed in the platform APIs by the xApps, that takes operator policies into consideration.

> NOTE :	The framework is used by the specified API procedures in [33].
REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-7: The Near-RT RIC shall be able to detect and defend against content-related attacks across the A1 interface.

> NOTE 1:	In practice, injection attacks and buffer overflow attacks are the most common classes of content-related attacks.
REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-8: The Near-RT RIC shall be able to detect and defend against content-related attacks across the Y1 interface.

> NOTE 2:	In practice, injection attacks and buffer overflow attacks are the most common classes of content-related attacks.
> NOTE 3:	In practice, injection attacks and buffer overflow attacks are the most common classes of content-related attacks.

##### API Security – Authentication

SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-1: Transactional APIs (REST and gRPC) shall support mutual TLS (mTLS) authentication via X.509v3 certificates as specified in the O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.2.

SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-2: Time critical APIs, not supported by TLS protocol, shall support IPsec with IKEv2 certificate-based authentication according to O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3].

> NOTE:	In this case authentication grants authorization and there is no native authorization method for SCTP.
EXAMPLE:		E2 related APIs are considered time critical APIs

SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-2A: The Near-RT RIC shall support mTLS as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.2, in order to provide mutual authentication for the A1 interface.

##### API Security – Authorization

SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-3A: The Near-RT RIC platform as API producer shall support rights/privileges for the platform services as resources to the xApps consumers.

SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-3B: An xApp should only have the required set of permissions to perform the actions for which they are authorized, and no more.

SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-3C: The Near-RT RIC platform shall enforce authorization mechanisms in the following key API procedures [33]:

Discovery of Near-RT RIC APIs: The Near-RT RIC platform shall provide means to restrict xApps from discovery of some published APIs based on configuration policies.

E2 Subscription API procedure: The subscription management shall be based on operator’s policies. An xApp may be restricted to interface with only a subset of E2 Nodes by such policies. This procedure establishes a set of preconditions that assume authorization processes:

xApp has been authorized to issue E2 Subscription API requests

xApp has been authorized to request guidance from Conflict mitigation

xApp Subscription Management has been configured to permit E2 Subscription API requests only from specific list of xApps.

E2 Control API procedure: Only authorized xApps may initiate RIC control request messages issued by the Near-RT RIC over the E2 interface to the E2 Nodes, for a specific scope.

EXAMPLE 1:	E2Nodes include E2 Node list, RAN function

E2 Guidance API procedure: Ensure only authorized xApp obtain guidance from the conflict mitigation platform function prior to initiating an action.

SDL API procedures: xApps shall have been successfully registered and authorized prior to consuming the services exposed by SDL API.

EXAMPLE 2:	Services exposed by SDL API may be client registration, fetch data, notification, store

SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-3: Transactional APIs (REST and gRPC) in Near-RT RIC shall support OAuth 2.0 authorization framework as specified in in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.7.

The roles defined in OAuth 2.0 are assigned as follows:

Resource owner / Resource server (producer): Near-RT RIC platform modules providing services via APIs

Client (consumer): xApp

Grants shall be of the type Client Credentials Grant, as described in IETF RFC 6749 [34], clause 4.4. Mutual authentication using mTLS as specified in the O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.2 shall be used.

##### API Security – Confidentiality and Integrity

Table 5-1 provides a summary of the security controls (SEC-CTL- NEAR-RT-1 to -7) and a mapping of those to the related interface/API transport protocols considered in Near-RT RIC platform.

| API protocol | Authentication method | Authorization method | Confidentiality method | Integrity method |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| gRPC | mTLS | OAuth2 |  |  |
| SCTP | IKEv2 | - | IPsec |  |
| REST/HTTP | mTLS | OAuth2 |  |  |

##### Security controls for the Y1 interface protocol structure solution 1

> NOTE 0: ‘Y1 interface protocol structure solution 1’ is the name given to the solution in [66], clause 7.2. No further solutions are defined at the time of publication.
> NOTE 1:	In mTLS, both the client (the Y1 consumer) and the server (the Y1 provider) require a certificate, and both sides authenticate each other using their public/private key pair.
SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-10: The Near-RT RIC shall support the OAuth 2.0 authorization framework for the Y1 interface protocol structure solution 1 as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.7, in the role of a resource owner / resource server (producer).

##### xApp Registration – Security procedure

As part of the xApp registration procedure to the Near-RT RIC platform, the platform assigns an identity (ID) to the xApp, so called xApp ID. This xApp ID is used in xApp’s API request messages to the Near-RT RIC platform to facilitate the Near-RT RIC platform the identification of the xApp (API service consumer).

SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-12: The xApp ID shall be embedded into the provided xApp X.509 certificate used for authentication (mTLS) according to the parametrization in [3], issued by operator RA/CA PKI infrastructure.

> NOTE 1:	The security procedure to become part of the existing xApp registration procedure, specified in O-RAN ALLIANCE TS: "Near-RT RIC Architecture" [33], clause 9.1.4 where xApp ID is assigned, is detailed in the figures 5.1.3.2-1 and 5.1.3.2-2:
1. As a pre-requisite to the registration procedure, the xApp obtains information from a provisioning system (NFO in SMO) during the onboarding/deployment phase in the infrastructure. This information is used to authenticate and establish a secure TLS communication with the Near-RT RIC platform during the registration process. The information includes details of the Near-RT RIC platform (address, Root CA certificate) and includes an initial registration credential.

> NOTE 2: 	An OAuth 2.0 access token is provided as initial registration credential in the example. Other types of credentials in the initial registration can be used.
2. The xApp and Near-RT RIC platform establish a TLS session (server-side certificate authentication) using the information obtained in step 1.

3. The xApp generates the private and public key pair, and CSR (Certificate Signing Request).

> NOTE 3:	The definition of required and optional fields of the CSR are out of scope of this O-RAN Alliance specification and are determined by vendor implementation in agreement with operator-specific requirements.
4. After successful establishment of the TLS session, the xApp instance sends a registration request message to the Near-RT RIC platform along with the pre-provisioned initial registration credential (OAuth 2.0 token), and the xApp instance CSR message.

5. The Near-RT RIC platform shall validate the initial registration credential, and the Management Function of the platform shall generate an xApp ID for that particular xApp instance. At the reception of the CSR message from the xApp, the Registration Authority (RA), implemented in the Near-RT RIC platform, shall prove that the xApp instance is in possession of the private key. If the proof of possession procedure is positive, the RA shall configure a policy to add the xApp ID in the Subject Alt Name (SAN) field of the certificate request message to be forwarded to the Operator CA to fetch the end entity certificate.

> NOTE 3:	The RA may use an enrolment protocol to fetch the certificate from the CA. The authentication mechanism between RA and CA are part of the operator PKI implementation.
6. The RA requests the certificate for the xApp instance.

7. Operator CA issues a certificate, embedding the xApp ID in SAN field of the certificate. The issued certificate by the operator CA will be used by the xApp for subsequent authentication and authorization procedures between the xApp and the Near-RT RIC platform when services/resources are consumed by xApps via APIs.

8. The Near-RT RIC platform (Management Function) generates an xApp Managed Object Instance (MOI) as specified in [33], which may contain the mechanism for authentication (mTLS) and authorization (OAuth 2.0) between the xApp and the corresponding module of the Near-RT RIC platform.

9. The Near-RT RIC platform (Management Function) responds with a xApp registration response message. The response shall include the assigned xApp ID, authentication, and authorization mechanism (if provided in step 8) and xApp certificate.

SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-13: The data type of the xApp ID shall be a string that uniquely identifies the xApp instance. The format of this string shall be a Universally Unique Identifier (UUID) version 4 as described in IETF RFC 9562 [84].

SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-14: subjectAltName in the xApp instance certificate shall contain a URI-ID with the URI for the xApp ID as an URN; this URI-ID shall contain the xApp ID of the xApp instance using the UUID format as described in IETF RFC 9562 [84].

EXAMPLE 1:	urn:uuid:f81d4fae-7dec-11d0-a765-00a0c91e6bf6

SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-15: The Near-RT RIC shall verify data received through the Y1 interface as follows:

- The data values are valid.
- The data is being received at or below a pre-defined message rate.
EXAMPLE 2:	In practice, data value validation verifies that values are within the predefined ranges.

SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-16: The Near-RT RIC shall log a security event each time an input validation step fails for data received through the Y1 interface.

### O-CU-CP/UP

REQ-SEC-OCU-1: O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP shall meet the security requirements for gNB-CU-CP and gNB-CU-UP respectively, as specified in 3GPP TS 33.501[55].

SEC-CTL-OCU-1: O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP shall support the security controls for gNB-CU-CP and gNB-CU-UP respectively, as specified in 3GPP TS 33.501 [55].

### O-DU

REQ-SEC-ODU-1: O-DU shall meet the security requirements for gNB-DU as specified in 3GPP TS 33.501[55].

The security requirements for the Open Fronthaul Interface are specified in clause 5.2.5.

SEC-CTL-ODU-1: O-DU shall support the security controls for gNB-DU as specified in 3GPP TS 33.501[55]. The security controls for the Open Fronthaul Interface are specified in clause 5.2.5.

### O-RU

REQ-SEC-ORU-1: O-RU shall meet the security requirements for gNB setup and configuration as specified in 3GPP TS 33.501[55].

REQ-SEC-ORU-2: O-RU shall meet the security requirements for gNB secure environment as specified in 3GPP TS 33.501[55].

The security requirements for the Open Fronthaul Interface are specified in clause 5.2.5.

The security controls for the Open Fronthaul Interface are specified in clause 5.2.5.

### O-eNB

REQ-SEC-OeNB-1: O-eNB shall meet the security requirements for eNB as specified in 3GPP TS 33.401[56].

SEC-CTL-OeNB-1: O-eNB shall support the security controls for eNB as specified in 3GPP TS 33.401[56].

### O-Cloud

#### Generic requirements

##### Management Requirements for O-Cloud Platform

Generic requirements for Cloud Platform Management are specified in [8].

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-1: Management Access to O-Cloud Platform shall be authenticated.

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-2: Management Access to O-Cloud Platform resources shall be authorized.

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-3: Means of isolation of control and resources among different subjects accessing the O-Cloud Platform shall be implemented.

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-4: O-Cloud Platform shall natively support Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) or a third-party identity provider for secure management access [83].

SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-1: O-Cloud Platform should support Role-based Access Control (RBAC).

SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-2: Void.

#### Application artifacts verification by the O-Cloud

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-IMG-1 to 18: Void

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-PKG-1: Void

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-PKG-2: The O-Cloud shall support the capability of verifying the signature(s) of any application artifacts.

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-PKG-3: Void

SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-IMG-1 to 4: Void

> NOTE: For implementation details of REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-PKG-2, refer to SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-1A.

#### O-Cloud Platform Software Protection

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SW-1: The O-Cloud Platform shall have the capability to ensure the integrity and authenticity of O-Cloud software images used during initial deployment and subsequent updates.

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SW-2: Void

SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-SW-1 For all deployments and updates, the O-Cloud shall verify the digital signature associated with the new O-Cloud Platform software before installing the software package. The algorithms, key sizes, and standards used for signature generation and verification shall adhere to the O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 5.

#### O-Cloud Virtualization and Isolation

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-ISO-1: O-Cloud Platform shall implement means of preventing privilege escalation by VNF/CNFs.

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-ISO-2: Void

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-ISO-3: The O-Cloud Platform shall ensure that VNF/CNFs have only the minimum required capabilities and privileges as well as minimum required access to the O-Cloud resources.

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-ISO-4: The O-Cloud Platform shall ensure strict isolation between VNF/CNFs for data in transit, data in use and data at rest.

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-ISO-5: Communication between O-Cloud Platform software components shall support confidentiality, integrity, and replay protections for data in transit.

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-ISO-6: The O-Cloud Platform shall provide the capability to define network policies that restrict ingress and egress traffic and configure rate limiting between VNF/CNFs.

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-ISO-7: The O-Cloud Platform shall permit only authorized configuration changes for any component of the O-Cloud Platform.

SEC-CTL-O-CLOUD-ISO-1: For mutual authentication between O-Cloud Platform software components, mTLS with PKI using X.509v3 certificates shall be supported as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.2.

SEC-CTL-O-CLOUD-ISO-2: For confidentiality and integrity protection of data in transit, O-Cloud Platform software components shall support TLS as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.2.

SEC-CTL-O-CLOUD-ISO-3: The O-Cloud Platform shall support an access control system to enforce access control policies that align with the principle of least privilege.

#### Secure update

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SU-1: All software within the O-Cloud Platform shall be kept up to date with the latest security updates for adding additional security protections and correcting vulnerabilities [i.1].

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SU-2: Void

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SU-3: Void

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SU-4: Void

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SU-5: In case of an incomplete update, or incident during the installation process, the O-Cloud Platform shall remain in its last working state.

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SU-6: The O-Cloud Platform shall prevent the unauthorized rollback of its software to an earlier version.

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SU-7: The update of O-Cloud Platform software should be completed with minimal disruption and downtime.

SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-SU-1: Void

SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-SU-2: Void

SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-SU-3: Void

SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-SU-4: The O-Cloud Platform shall support the capability to detect and retrieve the latest security updates of the O-Cloud Platform software.

> NOTE:	O-Cloud Platform software components can be consistently updated with the latest security patches for enhanced protection and vulnerability mitigation. The operation of this system can be automated.
SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-SU-5: The O-Cloud Platform shall possess the capability to securely log and control software versions, thereby preventing unauthorized rollbacks to older, less secure software versions.

SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-SU-6: The O-Cloud Platform should possess the capability to revert an O-Cloud Platform software component to its previous stable version in the event of an incomplete update or installation incident, ensuring operational continuity.

SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-SU-7: The O-Cloud Platform should be designed for redundancy and high availability, to maintain uninterrupted service during both the update process and in scenarios of unexpected update failures.

#### Secure Protection of cryptographic keys and sensitive data

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1: O-Cloud Platform shall support confidentiality and integrity protection for sensitive data at rest, in use and in transit.

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-2: The O-Cloud Platform shall support a secure deletion method from both active and backup storage medias during operation.

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-3: The O-Cloud Platform shall ensure that any data contained in a resource is not available when the resource is de-allocated from one VM/Container and reallocated to a different VM/Container.

> NOTE 1:	This requirement requires protection for any data contained in a resource that has been logically deleted or released but may still be present within the resource which in turn may be re-allocated to another VM/Container.
REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-4: The O-Cloud Platform shall have the capability that allows an Application to securely erase sensitive data owned by the Application.

EXAMPLE: Sensitive data includes, but is not limited to, cryptographic keys, personally identifiable information (PII), credentials, tokens, and configuration data.

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-5: The secure deletion method should activate automatically during the boot process after a power outage to prevent unauthorized access to any residual data from all volatile memories, including RAM and cache.

> NOTE 2:	Data may linger in volatile memory for a short period after power is lost, potentially allowing for data recovery through cold boot attacks if the system is quickly powered back on.
See Annex C for the guidance to implement REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-5.

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-6: The O-Cloud Platform shall support the capabilities that allow an application to authenticate and authorize access to all data owned by the application.

SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-SS-1: The O-Cloud Platform shall support encryption of data at rest as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 5.

SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-SS-2: The O-Cloud Platform shall support the capability for secure deletion of data in addressable memory locations that are no longer in use due to reallocation.

> NOTE 1:	This includes the ability to overwrite these locations with specific binary patterns, such as zeroes, ones, or a random bit pattern.
See Annex C for the guidance to implement these controls.

SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-SS-3: Media containing sensitive information shall be sanitized using media-specific techniques.

> NOTE 2: Sanitization of media containing sensitive information is performed in the following scenarios:
At decommissioning: When the hardware or media is retired, replaced, or disposed of.

At reassignment: Before assigning the media to a different tenant or use case, ensuring no residual data is accessible to the new owner or process.

End of retention period: When the retention period for sensitive information expires, as defined by applicable data retention policies.

Incident response scenarios: If a security incident requires the immediate destruction or sanitization of sensitive information to prevent compromise or misuse.

#### Chain of Trust

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-COT-1: The O-Cloud platform shall support a root of trust that verifies the integrity of every relevant component in the O-Cloud platform.

> NOTE 1:	See [i.1] and [i.2] for more information on the root of trust.
REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-COT-2: It shall be possible to attest an O-RAN Application through the full attestation chain from the hardware layer through the virtualization layer to the O-RAN Application layer.

> NOTE 2:	See [i.15] and [i.28] for more information on the attestation chain.
REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-COT-3: The O-Cloud shall support X.509v3 certificates issued by the Service Provider CA for the O2 interface [6].

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-COT-4: The O-Cloud shall support management of the certificates signed by the Service Provider PKI for the O2 interface through a certificate management protocol.

SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-COT-1: The chain of trust shall be built from measurements stored in a hardware root of trust.

SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-COT-2: The chain of trust shall be built from measurements stored in a software root of trust for scenarios where a hardware root of trust is not feasible or available.

SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-COT-3: A remote attestation service (AS) should be supported for providing additional benefits beside verifying O-Cloud platform integrity by CoT. The remote AS should collect O-Cloud platform configurations and integrity measurements from data center servers at an O-Cloud service provider via a trust agent service running on the O-Cloud platform servers [i.7]. The O-Cloud service provider is responsible for defining allowlisted trust policies. These policies should include information and expected measurements for desired platform CoT technologies. The collected data is compared and verified against the policies, and a report is generated to record the relevant trust information in the AS database [i.7]. The remote AS should be extended to include O-RAN Applications integrity.

See Annex C for the guidance to implement these controls.

#### AAL

There are two different scenarios of deployment of the hardware accelerator manager:

- Scenario 1: the hardware accelerator manager is a SW component part of the O-Cloud platform and outside the hardware accelerator device. It is linked to the hardware accelerator device via a vendor specific interface.
- Scenario 2: The hardware accelerator manager is part of the hardware accelerator device. In this scenario, the vendor specific interface does not exist.
For both scenarios, AALI-C-Mgmt interface is the same between the hardware accelerator manager and the O-Cloud IMS/DMS.

AAL components are parts of the O-Cloud platform, therefore the O-Cloud security requirements and controls on image protection, secure update, isolation, secure storage, and chain of trust shall apply to AAL components, see clause 5.1.8.

##### Requirements and Security Controls on AAL interfaces

REQ-SEC-AALI-C-Mgmt-1: The hardware accelerator manager shall authenticate O-Cloud IMS/DMS when O-Cloud IMS/DMS initiates a communication to the hardware accelerator manager over AALI-C-Mgmt interface.

REQ-SEC-AALI-C-Mgmt-2: The hardware accelerator manager shall check whether O-Cloud IMS/DMS is authorized when O-Cloud IMS/DMS accesses the hardware accelerator manager.

REQ-SEC-AALI-C-Mgmt-3: AALI-C-Mgmt interface shall support confidentiality, integrity, and replay protection between the hardware accelerator manager and O-Cloud IMS/DMS.

SEC-CTL-AALI-C-Mgmt-1: AALI-C-Mgmt interface shall support TLS as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.2.

SEC-CTL-AALI-C-Mgmt-2: For mutual authentication between the hardware accelerator manager and O-Cloud IMS/DMS, AALI-C-Mgmt interface shall support mTLS with PKI using X.509v3 certificates as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.2.

SEC-CTL-AALI-C-Mgmt-3: AALI-C-Mgmt interface shall support authorization using OAuth 2.0, as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.7.

The following requirements apply only for Scenario 1.

REQ-SEC-AAL-VS-1: The hardware accelerator device shall authenticate the hardware accelerator manager when the hardware accelerator manager initiates a communication to the hardware accelerator device over the vendor specific interface.

REQ-SEC-AAL-VS-2: The hardware accelerator manager shall check whether the hardware accelerator device is authorized when the hardware accelerator manager accesses the hardware accelerator device.

REQ-SEC-AAL-VS-3: The vendor specific interface shall support integrity between the hardware accelerator manager and the hardware accelerator device.

REQ-SEC-AAL-VS-4: The vendor specific interface may support confidentiality between the hardware accelerator manager and the hardware accelerator device.

REQ-SEC-AAL-VS-5: The vendor specific interface may support replay protection between the hardware accelerator manager and the hardware accelerator device.

##### Specific Requirements and Security Controls on AAL components

REQ-SEC-AAL-1: The hardware accelerator device shall provide the capability for memory to be cleared securely prior to allocation or when indicated by the AAL Application on returning the memory.

REQ-SEC-AAL-2: The AAL Implementation shall clear memory prior to allocation or when indicated by the AAL Application on returning the memory.

REQ-SEC-AAL-3: The hardware accelerator device shall have a unique identity for a proper identification and tracking of the hardware accelerator device by the hardware acceleration manager.

NOTE:	This requirement allows the O-Cloud platform for proper identification and tracking of the accelerator, as well as ensuring that it is not tampered with or replaced without proper authorization.

REQ-SEC-AAL-4: Hardware accelerators should be procured from vendors who can demonstrate the security of their supply chain and manufacturing processes (supply chain security).

REQ-SEC-AAL-5: The hardware accelerator device shall provide the capability for fine grained memory access control. An AAL Application or AAL Profile Instance access shall be restricted to only given buffer(s), and access requests outside that buffer(s) shall fail.

REQ-SEC-AAL-6: The Hardware accelerator manager shall log security events to track and monitor any potential security incidents and to ensure accountability. Such security events include:

- Hardware accelerator failures.
- Hardware accelerator configuration changes.
- Hardware accelerator software update and boot process.
- Hardware accelerator access attempts by unauthorized users/systems, network connectivity issues, successful authentication/authorization events.
- Hardware accelerator performance issues or degradation.
SEC-CTL-AAL-1: The clear memory mechanism should involve overwriting data that was previously stored in the memory with a known pattern, such as all zeros or a random value, to memory buffers.

SEC-CTL-AAL-2: Supply chain audit of hardware accelerator vendors should be performed for establishing trust in vendor's supply chain management based on evidence presented.

NOTE:	The evidence can be of different forms and some of them are described below.

-	Process to identify and map the hardware accelerator components of each hardware accelerator to the sourcing information.

-	A repeatable process of procuring components for building hardware accelerator.

-	Ability and procedures to detect counterfeit hardware components.

-	Procedures with strict access control measures for hardware accelerator inventory storage, transport, and distribution.

#### O2dms/O2ims/O-Cloud Notification APIs

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-O2dms-1: O-Cloud DMS shall authenticate SMO (NFO or any other entity using O2dms services) when SMO initiates a communication to O-Cloud for the deployment and management of Applications over O2 interface.

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-O2dms-2: O-Cloud DMS shall be able to establish securely protected connection in terms of confidentiality, integrity, and replay with the SMO (NFO or any other entity using O2dms services) over the O2 interface.

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-O2dms-3: O-Cloud DMS shall check whether SMO (NFO or any other entity using O2dms services) has been authorized when SMO access O-Cloud for the deployment and management of Applications.

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-O2dms-4: O-Cloud DMS shall log SMO's management operations for auditing.

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-O2ims-1: O-Cloud IMS shall authenticate SMO (FOCOM or any other entity using O2ims services) when SMO initiates a communication to O-Cloud for the management of infrastructure over O2 interface.

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-O2ims-2: O-Cloud IMS shall be able to establish securely protected connection in terms of confidentiality, integrity, and replay with the SMO (FOCOM or any other entity using O2ims services) over the O2 interface.

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-O2ims-3: O-Cloud IMS shall check whether SMO (FOCOM or any other entity using O2ims services) has been authorized when SMO access the O-Cloud infrastructure.

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-O2ims-4: O-Cloud IMS shall log SMO's management operations for auditing.

REQ-SEC-O-CLOUD-NotifAPI-1: The communication between Applications and the O-Cloud platform through the O-Cloud Notification API shall be mutually authenticated.

REQ-SEC-O-CLOUD-NotifAPI-2: The O-Cloud platform shall provide an authorization framework for the consumption of the services exposed in the O-Cloud Notification API by Applications.

SEC-CTL-O-CLOUD-INTERFACE-1: For the security protection at the transport layer on O2 interface, TLS shall be supported, as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.2.

SEC-CTL-O-CLOUD-INTERFACE-2: For the authorization of O2 RESTful and O-Cloud Notification APIs requests and notifications, OAuth 2.0 shall be supported, as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.7.

NOTE:	In the actual context of O-Cloud, the platform as API producer is responsible to specify those rights/privileges for the platform services as resources to Applications as consumers. As a guideline, an Application should only have the required set of permissions to perform the actions for which they are authorized, and no more.

Authorization mechanisms are enforced by the O-Cloud platform for subscriptions to events/status from the O-Cloud.

SEC-CTL-O-CLOUD-INTERFACE-3: For the mutual authentication between O-Cloud platform and Applications, and between O-Cloud platform and SMO, O2 interface and O-Cloud Notification APIs shall support mutual TLS (mTLS) authentication via X.509v3 certificates, as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.2.

#### O-Cloud secure environment

REQ-SEC-O-CLOUD-HW-1: Void

REQ-SEC-O-CLOUD-SE-1: O-Cloud secure environment shall include measures to counteract unauthorized extraction or inference of sensitive information using physical methods.

REQ-SEC-O-CLOUD-SE-2: O-Cloud secure environment shall include measures to counteract side-channel attacks and prevent unauthorized inference of sensitive information.

NOTE:

- REQ-SEC-O-CLOUD-SE-1 addresses direct physical attacks that require physical access to the O-Cloud secure environment. This involves tampering, probing, or other forms of physical interference.
- REQ-SEC-O-CLOUD-SE-2 focuses on side-channel attacks, which exploit indirect information leakage without requiring physical access. This involves analysing timing, power consumption, or electromagnetic (EM) emissions.
SEC-CTL-O-CLOUD-HW-1: Void

#### Identifiers in O-Cloud

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-INST-ID-1: Identifiers used in O-Cloud shall be unique within the O-Cloud Platform to prevent conflicts and ensure accurate identification.

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-INST-ID-2: The O-Cloud Platform shall support authentication and authorization with the principle of least privilege to prevent unauthorized exposure of identifiers used on O-Cloud interfaces, APIs, or logs.

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-INST-ID-3: Identifiers used in O-Cloud shall be protected to ensure confidentiality and integrity, both during storage (at rest) and while being transmitted (in transit).

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-INST-ID-4: Identifiers used in O-Cloud shall be subject to auditing and monitoring, with detailed logs maintained to track activities related to the instance's creation, usage, modification, and deletion.

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-INST-ID-5: Identifiers used in O-Cloud shall be associated with a single component, be it a VM, container, pod, node, or compute pool, to ensure clear resource ownership, traceability, and accountability.

SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-INST-ID-1: Identifiers used in O-Cloud shall be generated using strong randomization methods as defined in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], Table 5-1 (‘RNG’ entry).

EXAMPLE:	Implementation (Kubernetes-specific)

Kubernetes generates unique instance IDs, called Pod names, by combining factors like pseudorandom number generators (PRNGs) and contextual information. PRNGs use an initial seed and deterministic algorithms to produce random-like numbers. These numbers, along with contextual elements like timestamps and namespace identifiers, form the basis of the Pod names. This approach ensures that generated names are non-guessable, unpredictable, and unlikely to collide within the Kubernetes cluster. The combination of PRNGs, randomization, and context guarantees that instance IDs are secure, unique, and suitable for identifying pods within the system.

SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-INST-ID-2: O-Cloud should validate newly generated identifiers against existing identifiers to guarantee uniqueness before finalizing instance creation.

SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-INST-ID-3: Identifiers used in O-Cloud shall be protected using encryption, as specified in Clause 5 of O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], to ensure confidentiality during storage.

SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-INST-ID-4: Identifiers used in O-Cloud shall be protected during transmission using TLS, as defined in Clause 4.2 of O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3].

#### Time Synchronization and Consistency Requirements for O-Cloud

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-TS-1: All O-Cloud Nodes shall be configured to connect to a secure and authenticated time synchronization server for ToD synchronization.

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-TS-2: The O-Cloud shall be configured such that ToD synchronization is maintained across all nodes in an O-Cloud Node Cluster, there by guaranteeing uniform time references for all applications hosted on these nodes.

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-TS-3: The O-Cloud shall guarantee that the timestamp consistency is preserved even when applications are relocated across different nodes of the O-Cloud infrastructure.

> NOTE 1:	Timestamp refers to:
Log/event timestamps: These are associated with each log entry generated. Examples include application start/stop, application relocation, node failures, network events, change in applications and O-Cloud configuration, resource allocation, deallocation, etc.

Data Transaction timestamps: For applications that rely on time-sensitive data within O-Cloud, consistent timestamps are crucial. Whenever data is read, written, or modified, a timestamp is generated to ensure both data integrity and consistency across nodes.

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-TS-4: The O-Cloud shall guarantee that various instances of an identical application, irrespective of their location, generate logs with consistent timestamps.

> NOTE 2:	Within the O-Cloud infrastructure, a "consistent timestamp" denotes the synchronized and uniform chronological markers generated by various instances of an identical application, irrespective of their location. This uniformity ensures that aggregated or analysed logs from different instances present a coherent chronological sequence, aiding in precise event correlation and analysis. To achieve and maintain this consistency, it's recommended for O-Cloud to synchronize its internal clocks with trusted time sources, such as NTP servers, guaranteeing both the accuracy and trustworthiness of these timestamps.
REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-TS-5: All O-Cloud Nodes within a compute pool, especially those serving a specific geographic region or co-located, shall be configured to operate using a consistent time reference, preferably UTC with a Time Zone (TZ) modifier.

> NOTE 3:	This requirement ensures:
> NOTE: Uniformity in Time-Related Operations: Simplifies the process of correlating logs, events, and time-sensitive operations across nodes, aiding in quicker identification of anomalies or malicious activities.
> NOTE: Operational Consistency: Ensures that scheduled tasks, backups, updates, or maintenance activities are executed consistently across the compute pool.
> NOTE: Data Integrity: Provides consistency for applications and databases that rely on timestamps for transactions, ensuring no discrepancies due to time differences.
SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-TS-1: Void

SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-TS-2: Void

SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-TS-3: The O-Cloud should establish multiple time servers for redundancy. This ensures that nodes can switch to an alternative trusted server if the primary server becomes unavailable, thereby maintaining consistent time synchronization.

> NOTE:	See clause 5.3.8.9.2 for additional security controls.

#### Security policies enforcement

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SECPOL-1: The O-Cloud Platform should verify that the source of any container or VM image is trusted before deployment.

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SECPOL-2: The O-Cloud Platform should enforce resource quotas and limits by ensuring that the specified quotas and limits in the deployment descriptor are applied and maintained at each container or VM level.

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SECPOL-3: The O-Cloud Platform should ensure that containers and VMs run with restricted privileges, preventing any processes from having elevated privileges unless explicitly required and approved.

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SECPOL-4: The O-Cloud Platform should allow only approved storage resource types to be mounted for containers and VMs.

> NOTE 1: In the context of containers, storage resources refer to volumes. In the context of VMs, storage resources refer to disks or storage drives.
REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SECPOL-5: The O-Cloud Platform should enforce that containers and VMs use a read-only root file system, preventing modifications to critical system files during runtime.

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SECPOL-6: The O-Cloud Platform should enforce immutability by ensuring that containers and VMs are always deployed using the latest verified images from trusted image repositories, preventing the reuse of cached images on nodes.

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SECPOL-7: The O-Cloud Platform should enforce defined network policies to manage and control ingress and egress traffic, ensuring that only authorized traffic is permitted within and across the O-Cloud infrastructure.

REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SECPOL-8: The O-Cloud Platform should enforce workload placement policies.

> NOTE 1:
> NOTE: For containers, this can be achieved using taint and toleration policies.
> NOTE: For VMs, this can be enforced through resource scheduling policies or affinity/anti-affinity rules.
EXAMPLE: This requirement could, for instance, ensure that an O-DU is scheduled on a node that supports the required AAL, or that O-DU is deployed on a node equipped with a TPM for secure operations.

> NOTE 2: The implementation of security policies depends on the underlying technology, whether it involves containerization or virtualization. Guidance for implementing these security policies using Kubernetes admission controllers is provided in Annex C.1.3, based on Kubernetes and OpenShift documentation [i.21], [i.22].

### Shared O-RU

REQ-SEC-SharedORU-1: The Shared O-RU shall mutually authenticate with an O-RU Controller.

REQ-SEC-SharedORU-2: The Shared O-RU shall provide least privilege access to each SRO based upon its sro-id.

REQ-SEC-SharedORU-3: The Shared O-RU shall provide separate confidentiality and integrity protection of data-at-rest for the SOH and each SRO.

REQ-SEC-SharedORU-4: The Shared O-RU shall provide separate confidentiality, integrity, and replay protection for data-in-transit for the SOH and each SRO.

REQ-SEC-SharedORU-5: Void

REQ-SEC-SharedORU-6: Void

REQ-SEC-SharedORU-8: The Shared O-RU shall support event logging with tenant-awareness.

REQ-SEC-SharedORU-9: The Shared O-RU should support confidentiality, integrity, and replay protection for the CUS-Plane data on the Open Fronthaul interface.

SEC-CTL-SharedORU-5: The Shared O-RU should support MACsec, as specified in clause 5.2.5.6, for confidentiality, integrity, and replay protection of CUS-Plane data on the Open FH interface.

## Interfaces maintained by O-RAN

### A1 Interface

REQ-SEC-A1-1: A1 interface shall support confidentiality, integrity, replay protection.

REQ-SEC-A1-3: A1 interface shall support authorization with the principle of least privilege.

SEC-CTL-A1-1: For the security protection at the transport layer on A1 interface, TLS shall be supported, as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3] clause 4.2.

### O1 Interface

REQ-SEC-O1-1: O1 interface shall support confidentiality, integrity, and replay protection.

REQ-SEC-O1-2: O1 interface shall support mutual authentication.

REQ-SEC-O1-3: O1 interface shall support authorization using the principle of least privilege.

REQ-SEC-O1-4: O1 interface shall support secure file transfer.

##### Summary

Void

##### Confidentiality, Integrity and Authenticity

REQ-TLS-FUN-1: Void

REQ-TLS-FUN-2: Void.

##### Least Privilege Access Control

Void

SEC-CTL-O1-1: O1 interface shall support confidentiality and integrity protection using TLS, as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3] clause 4.2.

SEC-CTL-O1-2: O1 interface shall support mutual authentication using mTLS with X.509 certificates, as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.2.

#### Configuration Requirements for Least Privilege Access

REQ-NAC-FUN-1: O1 producers and consumers that use NETCONF shall support the NETCONF Access Control Model (NACM) as specified in RFC 8341 [10] to restrict NETCONF protocol access for users to a preconfigured subset of available NETCONF protocol operations and content.

REQ-NAC-FUN-2: The NETCONF implementation for O1 shall set the default values of the NACM Global Enforcement Controls as described in Table 5.2.2.3-1

| Parameter | Value |
| --- | --- |
| enable-nacm | true |
| read-default | deny |
| write-default | deny |
| exec-default | deny |
| enable-external-groups | true |

REQ-NAC-FUN-3: Management Service providers that support NETCONF on the O1 interface shall support the following pre-defined groups in NACM to restrict NETCONF protocol access for users.

- O1_nacm_management: Allows changes to the /nacm objects which includes the NACM Global Enforcement Controls. Allowing changes to the NACM Global Enforcement Controls configuration is optional.
- O1_user_management: Allows assignment and deletion of users and assignment of users to roles on the O1 node.
- Mandatory if the network device supports a local user store.
- Not provided if the network device does not support a local user store and requires all user/role information to be provided by an external authentication/authorization service.
> NOTE: Handling of password policies and LDAP attributes are not part of this role.
- O1_network_management: Allows read, write, and execute operations on the datastores. All operations on the /nacm objects are prohibited.
- O1_ network_monitoring: Allows read operations on configuration data in the datastore, except for the /nacm objects.
- O1_software_management: Allows installation of new software including new software versions for a PNF.
REQ-NAC-FUN-4: Users assigned to the O1_nacm_management group shall have read and write permission for the /nacm objects and attributes. Allowing changes to the NACM Global Enforcement Controls configuration is optional.

REQ-NAC-FUN-5: Users assigned to the O1_user_management group shall have read and write permissions for the locally defined user store objects and attributes.

REQ-NAC-FUN-6: Users assigned to the O1_network_management group shall have read, write, and execute permissions for the datastores. Users assigned to the O1_network_management group shall not have any permissions for the /nacm objects.

REQ-NAC-FUN-7: Users assigned to the O1_network_monitoring group shall have read permissions for the datastores. Users assigned to the O1_network_monitoring group shall not have read permissions for the /nacm objects.

REQ-NAC-FUN-8: Users assigned to the O1_software_management group shall have permissions to install new software on the PNF.

REQ-NAC-FUN-9: O1 NETCONF endpoints shall support external user-to-group mapping via LDAP with StartTLS.

REQ-NAC-FUN-10: O1 Management Service providers may allow the definition of users in the <groups> NACM object.

REQ-NAC-FUN-11: O1 NETCONF endpoints may support external user to group mapping via OAuth 2.0, RADIUS with EAP, and TACACS+.

### O2 Interface

REQ-SEC-O2-1: O2 interface shall support confidentiality, integrity, and replay protection.

REQ-SEC-O2-2: O2 interface shall support mutual authentication.

REQ-SEC-O2-3: O2 interface shall support authorization using the principle of least privilege.

SEC-CTL-O2-1: O2 interface shall support confidentiality and integrity protection using TLS, as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3] clause 4.2.

SEC-CTL-O2-2: O2 interface, as shown in Figure 5.2.3.2-1, shall support mutual authentication using mTLS, as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.2.

SEC-CTL-O2-3: O2 interface, as shown in Figure 5.2.3.2-1, shall support authorization using OAuth 2.0, as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.7.

Figure 5.2.3.2-1: O2 interface security

### E2 Interface

REQ-SEC-E2-1: E2 interface shall support confidentiality, integrity, replay protection and data origin authentication.

SEC-CTL-E2-1: For the security protection at the IP layer on E2 interface, IPsec shall be supported as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.5.

### Open Fronthaul Interface

#### C-plane

REQ-SEC-OFCP-1: The Open FH interface shall support authentication and authorization to ensure that only authenticated Open FH network elements can exchange C-Plane data.

REQ-SEC-OFCP-2: The Open FH interface shall be able to detect and defend against application level attacks across the C-Plane.

REQ-SEC-OFCP-3: The Open FH interface should support integrity and anti-replay protection to ensure that C-Plane data remains unaltered during transmission.

REQ-SEC-OFCP-4: The Open FH interface should support confidentiality protection for the C-Plane.

See clause 5.2.5.5 for security controls for the authentication and authorization of an O-DU and other network elements supporting the C-Plane within Open Fronthaul point-to-point LAN segments.

This clause provides controls for requirements REQ-SEC-OFCP-3 and REQ-SEC-OFCP-4 based on the use of MACsec [79].

SEC-CTL-OFCP-1: The Open Fronthaul network elements should secure the C-Plane data by encapsulating it inside MACsec [79].

Clause 5.2.5.6 of this document provides the solutions for protection of Open Fronthaul messages and defines the security controls for encryption of the C-Plane data on the Open Fronthaul network segment.

#### U-plane

REQ-SEC-OFUP-1: The Open FH interface should support integrity and anti-replay protection to ensure that U-Plane data remains unaltered during transmission.

REQ-SEC-OFUP-2: The Open FH interface shall support authentication to ensure that only authenticated Open FH network elements can exchange U-Plane data.

REQ-SEC-OFUP-3: The Open FH interface shall support authorization to ensure that only authorized Open FH network elements can exchange U-Plane data.

REQ-SEC-OFUP-4: The Open FH interface may support confidentiality to protect U-Plane data from unauthorized access during transmission.

Clause 5.2.5.6 of this document provides the solutions for protecting Open Fronthaul messages and defines the security controls for encrypting U-Plane data on the Open Fronthaul network segment using MACsec [79]. The security controls in clause 5.2.5.6 fulfil the requirements REQ-SEC-OFUP-1 and REQ-SEC-OFUP-4.

SEC-CTL-OFUP-1: Void

Clause 5.2.5.5 outlines the requirements and security controls for the authentication and authorization of Open Fronthaul (OFH) network elements that support the U-Plane within point-to-point LAN segments using IEEE 802.1X-2020 Port-based Network Access Control [12]. The security requirements and controls in clause 5.2.5.5 fulfil the requirements REQ-SEC-OFUP-2 and REQ-SEC-OFUP-3.

#### S-plane

REQ-SEC-OFSP-1: The S-Plane shall support authentication and authorization of PTP nodes that communicate with other PTP nodes within Configuration LLS-C1, Configuration LLS-C2, or Configuration LLS-C3.

> NOTE 1:	This ensures least privilege access to the S-Plane where authenticated and authorized PTP nodes communicate over the Open Fronthaul network.
> NOTE 2:	There is no specific requirement for authentication and authorization mechanism of S-plane PTP messages.
REQ-SEC-OFSP-2: The S-Plane should provide a means to prevent spoofing of master clocks.

REQ-SEC-OFSP-3: For the O-DU at the Data Centre deployment model the S-Plane should protect against MITM attacks that degrade the clock accuracy due to packet delay attacks or selective interception and removal attacks [28].

REQ-SEC-OFSP-4: The O-DU shall be able to detect and defend against application level attacks across the S-Plane interface, due to misbehaviour or malicious intent.

REQ-SEC-OFSP-5: The S-Plane should support a security mechanism to authenticate the sender of the PTP ANNOUNCE messages.

REQ-SEC-OFSP-6: The S-Plane should support a security mechanism for integrity protection of the PTP ANNOUNCE messages.

REQ-SEC-OFSP-7: The S-Plane should support a security mechanism for replay protection of the PTP ANNOUNCE messages.

REQ-SEC-OFSP-8: The S-Plane should support a security mechanism for confidentiality protection of the PTP messages.

This clause addresses requirement REQ-SEC-OFSP-3 by providing an architectural recommendation to S-plane security based on redundancy in the Open Fronthaul Synchronization architecture.

The following architectural recommendations for security controls build S-Plane redundancy into to the Open Fronthaul for increased robustness against security breaches.

SEC-CTL-OFSP-1: The Open Fronthaul Synchronization architecture should support simultaneous Grandmasters.

SEC-CTL-OFSP-2: The Open Fronthaul Synchronization architecture should support the assignment of GMs to physically separated PTP ports. Multiple masters could be connected to offer topology resilience.

O-RAN Synchronization Architecture and Solution Specification [30], clause 8.2.3 Timing/Synchronization Redundancy & Resiliency provides additional details on redundancy for the Open Fronthaul Synchronization architecture.

This clause addresses requirements REQ-SEC-OFSP-1 and REQ-SEC-OFSP-2 based on the use of IEEE 802.1X-2020 Port-based Network Access Control [12] for authentication and subsequent authorization of PTP nodes.

Clause 5.2.5.5 provides requirements and security controls for the authentication and authorization of S-Plane PTP nodes within Open Fronthaul point-to-point LAN segments.

This clause provides security controls for REQ-SEC-OFSP-5 , REQ-SEC-OFSP-6, and REQ-SEC-OFSP-7 using IEEE 1588-2019 ([27]) AUTHENTICATION TLV (clause 16.14) to provide source authentication, message integrity, and replay attack protection for PTP ANNOUNCE messages within a PTP domain.

SEC-CTL-OFSP-3: The Open Fronthaul Synchronization architecture may support IEEE 1588-2019 [27] Authentication TLV for securing PTP ANNOUNCE messages.

This clause introduces MACsec as a mechanism to provide source authentication, message integrity, and replay attack protection for S-plane.

SEC-CTL-OFSP-4: The Open Fronthaul Synchronization architecture may support MACsec for securing PTP messages.

#### M-plane

REQ-SEC-OFHM-1: Open Fronthaul M-Plane interface shall support confidentiality, integrity, and replay protection.

REQ-SEC-OFHM-2: Open Fronthaul M-Plane interface shall support mutual authentication.

REQ-SEC-OFHM-3: Open Fronthaul M-Plane interface shall support authorization using the principle of least privilege.

REC-SEC-OFHM-4: Open Fronthaul M-Plane interface shall support secure file transfer.

SEC-CTL-OFHM-1: Open Fronthaul M-Plane interface shall support confidentiality and integrity protection using TLS, as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3] clause 4.2.

SEC-CTL-OFHM-2: Open Fronthaul M-Plane interface shall support mutual authentication using mTLS 1.2 with X.509 certificates, as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.2.

SEC-CTL-OFHM-3: Open Fronthaul M-Plane interface may support mutual authentication using mTLS 1.3 with X.509 certificates, as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.2.

SEC-CTL-OFHM-4: Open Fronthaul M-Plane interface shall support authorization and least privilege using NACM, as specified in clause 5.2.5.4.3.

SEC-CTL-OFHM-5: Open Fronthaul M-Plane interface shall support secure file transfer using FTPES, as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 6.3.

SEC-CTL-OFHM-6: Open Fronthaul M-Plane interface shall support confidentiality and integrity protection using SSH with password-based authentication, as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3] clause 4.1.

SEC-CTL-OFHM-7: Open Fronthaul M-Plane interface shall support confidentiality and integrity protection using SSH with simple public key server authentication by the SSH client, as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3] clause 4.1.

SEC-CTL-OFHM-8: Open Fronthaul M-Plane interface shall support confidentiality and integrity protection using SSH with simple public key client authentication by the SSH server, as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3] clause 4.1.

SEC-CTL-OFHM-9: Open Fronthaul M-Plane interface shall support secure file transfer using SFTP, as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 6.2.

REQ-NAC-MPLANE-FUN-1: Open FH M-Plane endpoints that use NETCONF shall support the NETCONF Access Control Model (NACM) as specified in RFC 8341 [10] to restrict NETCONF protocol access for users to a preconfigured subset of available NETCONF protocol operations and content.

REQ-NAC-MPLANE-FUN-2: The NETCONF implementation for Open FH M-Plane shall set the default values of the NACM Global Enforcement Controls as described in Table 5.2.5.4.3-1.

| Parameter | Value |
| --- | --- |
| enable-nacm | true |
| read-default | deny |
| write-default | deny |
| exec-default | deny |
| enable-external-groups | true |

REQ-NAC-MPLANE-FUN-3: Open FH M-Plane endpoints shall support the group “sudo” and may support the groups "smo", "hybrid-odu", "carrier", "nms", "fm-pm", and "swm" in their NACM implementation to restrict NETCONF protocol access as defined in [14] clause 6.5.

REQ-NAC-MPLANE-FUN-4: Open FH M-Plane NETCONF endpoints may support external user-to-group mapping via LDAP with StartTLS.

REQ-NAC-MPLANE-FUN-5: Open FH M-Plane Management Service providers may allow the definition of users in the <groups> NACM object.

REQ-NAC-MPLANE-FUN-6: Open FH M-Plane NETCONF endpoints may support external user-to-group mapping via OAuth 2.0, RADIUS with EAP, and TACACS+.

#### Open Fronthaul Point-to-Point LAN Segment

REQ-SEC-OFHPLS-1: The Open Fronthaul shall provide a means to authenticate and authorize point-to-point LAN segments between Open Fronthaul network elements.

REQ-SEC-OFHPLS-2: The Open Fronthaul shall provide a means to detect and report when an authorized point-to-point LAN segment is made or broken.

REQ-SEC-OFHPLS-3: The Open Fronthaul shall provide a means to block access to unused Ethernet ports in an Open Fronthaul network element.

IEEE 802.1X-2020 [12] Port-based Network Access Control provides the means to control network access in point-to-point LAN segments within the Open Fronthaul network. Port-based network access control in the O-RAN Alliance Open Fronthaul comprises supplicant, authenticator, and authentication server entities described in IEEE 802.1X-2020 [12] and as further described in this clause. All other entities and functionality described in IEEE 802.1X [12] are out of scope of this O-RAN Alliance specification and are determined by vendor implementation in agreement with operator-specific requirements.

SEC-CTL-OFHPLS-1: Void.

Supplicants in the Open Fronthaul Network

SEC-CTL-OFHPLS-2: Open Fronthaul network elements shall support IEEE 802.1X-2020 [12] supplicant functionality for each port connection in the Open Fronthaul network element.

Authenticators in the Open Fronthaul Network

In IEEE 802.1X-2020 [12] a supplicant mutually authenticates with an authenticator.

SEC-CTL-OFHPLS-3: Any Open Fronthaul network element may be an authenticator in the Open Fronthaul network.

SEC-CTL-OFHPLS-4: An authenticator in an Open Fronthaul network shall support port-based network access control on each point-to-point LAN segment as defined in IEEE 802.1X-2020 [12].

SEC-CTL-OFHPLS-5: Port-based network access control between a supplicant and authenticator in an Open Fronthaul network shall use EAP-TLS authentication as defined in IEEE 802.1X-2020 [12].

O-DU as an Authenticator

Configuration LLS-C1 [13] and Cascade Mode in the Shared Cell Concept [12] are cases where an O-DU and O-RU are Open Fronthaul network elements in a point-to-point LAN segment.

SEC-CTL-OFHPLS-6: In the case of Configuration LLS-C1, the O-DU shall support the authenticator functionality as defined in IEEE 802.1X-2020 [12].

Authenticator interface to an Authentication Server in the Open Fronthaul Network

IEEE 802.1X describes an EAP-TLS exchange which includes an interface between an authenticator and authentication server [12].

SEC-CTL-OFHPLS-7: The interface between an authenticator and authentication server shall support IETF RADIUS standards, IETF RFC 2865 [22], IETF RFC 2866 [23], IETF RFC 3579 [24].

SEC-CTL-OFHPLS-8: The interface between an authenticator and authentication server should support IETF Diameter standards, IETF RFC 4072 [25].

> NOTE :	Mechanisms to secure the interface between the authenticator and authentication server are out of scope of the O-RAN Alliance.
General requirements

Only those Open Fronthaul network elements acting as a supplicant that have mutually authenticated with an authenticator are authorized to participate in the Open Fronthaul network. If an authenticator port is to be activated in the Open Fronthaul, then the authenticator places the port into an unauthorized state that allows EAP over LAN (EAPOL) packets for EAP authentication and blocks all other traffic. If the mutual authentication has been successful and the operator authorizes operation for the network element port, then the port is switched to the authorized state whereby non-EAPOL packets can be sent and received.

SEC-CTL-OFHPLS-9: Open Fronthaul network elements acting as an authenticator shall place each of its unauthorized ports into a state that allows EAPOL traffic and block all other Ethernet traffic.

SEC-CTL-OFHPLS-10: Open Fronthaul network elements acting as an authenticator should be able to implement authorization policies that apply to its authorized ports.

> NOTE:	Authorization policies may include tagging authorized traffic with a particular VLAN-ID as it egresses the Open Fronthaul network element and/or enforcing access control policies that restrict the type of traffic able to be forwarded by the Open Fronthaul network element.
Manufacturer Install Certificates

This clause applies to the Extensible Authentication Protocol as defined in IEEE 802.1X [12] where such an approach is used. A supplicant implements an EAP method according to its supported credentials. Prior to a supplicant enrolling in an operator’s PKI, a manufacturer installed certificate shall be used together with an EAP-TLS dialogue to enable certificate-based mutual authentication to be performed between an authenticator and a supplicant.

SEC-CTL-OFHPLS-11: The O-RU shall have installed a Manufacturer Installed X.509 Certificate.

Security Procedure

The following procedure describes the authentication and authorization, based on IEEE 802.1X Port based Network Access Control, of point-to-point LAN segments between a supplicant and another Open Fronthaul network element acting as an authenticator.

SEC-CTL-OFHPLS-12: The normal operation procedure defined in IEEE 802.1X [12] shown in Figure 5.2.5.5.3.2-1 and Figure 5.2.5.5.3.2-2 shall be performed to authenticate and authorize an O-RU within an Open Fronthaul network.

@startuml

!pragma teoz true

skinparam defaultTextAlignment center

participant "Authentication\nServer" as AAA

participant "IEEE 802.1x\nAuthenticator" as AUT

participant "IEEE 802.1x \nSupplicant" as SUP

note over AAA

Manufacturer Trust

Root Installed

end note

&note over SUP

Manufacturer Installed

X.509 Certificate

end note

&note over AUT

Port in unauthorized

state - blocks all

traffic other than

EAPOL traffic

end note

group Initial limited-access when authenticated using manufacturer certificate

SUP->AUT: EAPoL Start

AUT->SUP: EAP-Request/Identity

SUP->AUT: EAP-Response/Identity (from Manufacturer Installed X.509 Certificate Subject DN)

AUT->AAA: RADIUS-Access-Request or Diameter-EAP-Request (EAP-Response)

AAA->AUT: RADIUS-Access-Challenge or Diameter-EAP-Answer (EAP-Request)

AUT->SUP: EAPoL (EAP-Request)

note over AAA, SUP

EAP Dialogue Continues using Manufacturer Installed X.509 Certificate

end note

AAA->AAA: Select Security Policy \nfor Manufacturer Installed X.509 Certificate

AAA->AUT: RADIUS-Access-Accept or Diameter-EAP-Answer (EAP-Success) \nIncluding security policy, e.g., Provisioning/Enrollment VLAN

AUT->SUP: EAP-Success

AUT->AUT: Set port to authorized state.\nAssign port to provided security policy, \ne.g., Provisioning/Enrollment VLAN

end

group Enrollment into operator PKI

note over AUT, SUP

Certificate Enrollment Completes & Provision of Operator X.509 Certificate

end note

SUP->SUP: Install\nOperator X.509\nCertificate

end

group Subsequent full operational access when authenticated using operator installed certificate

note over SUP

re-start of Supplicant

triggers interface

re-initialization

end note

note over AUT

Interface re-initialization:

resets port to unauthorized

state - blocks all traffic

other than EAPOL traffic

end note

SUP->AUT: EAPoL Start

AUT->SUP: EAP-Request/Identity

SUP->AUT: EAP-Response/Identity (from Operator X.509 Certificate Subject DN)

AUT->AAA: RADIUS-Access-Request or Diameter-EAP-Request (EAP-Response)

AAA->AUT: RADIUS-Access-Challenge or Diameter-EAP-Answer (EAP-Request)

AUT->SUP: EAPoL (EAP-Request)

note over AAA, SUP

EAP Dialogue Continues using Operator Installed X.509 Certificate

end note

AAA->AAA: Select Security Policy\nfor Operator Installed X.509 Cert

AAA->AUT: RADIUS-Access-Accept or Diameter-EAP-Answer (EAP-Success) \nIncluding security policy, e.g., Operational VLAN

AUT->SUP: EAP-Success

AUT->AUT: Set port to authorized state.\nAssign port to provided security policy, \ne.g., Operational VLAN

note over SUP

Normal Supplicant

start up continues

end note

end

@enduml

The authentication and authorization procedure may fail at any moment, for example because of no response from the supplicant after a network request. In that case, the operation procedure as specified in Figure 5.2.5.5.3.2-2 will be terminated as specified in IEEE 802.1X-2020 [12].

#### Protecting Open Fronthaul messages using MACsec

##### MACsec using EDE-CC

This clause provides an overview of the EDE-CC operation as it is standardized in IEEE 802.1AE-2018 [79], clause 15.6.

In this mode, MACsec uses EDE-CC, controlled port, uncontrolled port as functional blocks from IEEE 802.1AE-2018 [79]. This solution applies to scenarios where MACsec is applied based on VLAN tags and configured at the VLAN interface.

This mode allows 802.1Q VLAN tags to be encrypted inside the MACsec header and also sent in clear text, outside the MACsec header. The inner VLAN tag is protected by MACsec while the outer VLAN tag is used for VLAN based switching in a network where some transport network elements may not be MACsec capable. This solution enables MACsec to be configured in an end-to end tunnel mode such that the intermediate nodes may be MACsec-unaware.

To prevent intermediary nodes from consuming EAPoL packets, it is recommended to configure an appropriate group destination address as specified in IEEE 802.1AE-2018 [79], Table 15.1.

Figure 5.2.5.6.2-1 depicts the scenario where the O-RU and O-DU are connected via a switched fronthaul network and MACsec is enabled at O-DU and O-RU in an End-to-End tunnel mode. The TNE and intermediary switches may or may not support MACsec capabilities.

The O-DU functional block transmits the Open Fronthaul message that needs encryption to the controlled port, which passes through an EDE functional block. This EDE block secures the Open Fronthaul message using MACsec. The EDE-CC, a variant of EDE, adds a cleartext VLAN header before the MACsec header, which includes VLAN and VLAN PCP bits, that are used for VLAN-based switching and identifying QoS profiles in the MACsec-unaware Fronthaul TNE connected to the O-DU. At the receiving endpoint, the O-RU validates the encrypted traffic received at the EDE using MACsec. Upon successful validation, it forwards the traffic via the controlled port to the O-RU functional block. Communication from the O-RU to the O-DU follows a similar process.

The EDE-CC protects VLAN-tagged traffic, but it does not protect untagged traffic, i.e. protocols that are operating on the LAN level, like PTP. The LAN level protocols pass through the EDE-CC as-is, i.e. without encryption or decryption. Implementations may use the EtherType and VLAN header presence for detecting such LAN-level protocols.

Depending on the chosen network topology, the MACsec tunnel endpoint can be a TNE, and the functionalities of controlled, uncontrolled ports, and EDE can apply to it. Communication between the selected MACsec tunnel endpoints would occur in a similar manner.

> NOTE:	A TNE that integrates an EDE-CC has to be a CE.
This clause specifies the security controls for configuring MACsec using EDE-CC. The Open Fronthaul network elements include the O-DU, O-RU and TNE.

SEC-CTL-OFHMECC-1: The Open Fronthaul network elements may support the functional blocks of controlled port, uncontrolled port, and Ethernet Data Encryption (EDE), as defined in the standard IEEE 802.1AE -2018 [79] clauses 5.2, 5.3 and 15.6.

SEC-CTL-OFHMECC-2: Void

SEC-CTL-OFHMECC-3: The Open Fronthaul network elements may forward the data that need to be encrypted to the controlled port . The controlled port then sends the data to the EDE functional block that is secured by MACsec.

SEC-CTL-OFHMECC-4: The Open Fronthaul network elements may support the EDE-CC functionality that allows utilization of the frame’s VLAN tag for service selection and conveyance of Priority Code Point (PCP) and drop-eligible (DEI) information.

SEC-CTL-OFHMECC-5: If an Open Fronthaul network element supports the EDE-CC functionality, it shall support the cipher suites, as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.9.

##### WAN mode MACsec

This mode allows the 802.1Q VLAN tag to be unencrypted and sent in clear text, outside the MACsec header. This solution applies to scenarios where MACsec is applied based on VLAN tag and configured at the VLAN interface. This solution enables the intermediatory switches that are MACsec-unaware to switch the packets based on the VLAN tag.

To prevent MACsec capable intermediary nodes from consuming EAPoL packets, it is recommended to configure the group destination address to allow the intermediatory nodes to tunnel the packets like data packets.

This clause specifies the security controls for configuring MACsec using VLAN in the clear. The Open Fronthaul network elements include the O-DU, O-RU and TNE.

SEC-CTL-OFHWMM-1: The Open Fronthaul network elements may support a MACsec solution allowing the VLAN header to travel in the clear.

SEC-CTL-OFHWMM-2: If an Open Fronthaul network element supports a MACsec solution allowing the VLAN header to travel in the clear, it shall support the cipher suites, as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.9.

##### LAN mode MACsec

This solution requires that the entire Ethernet frame after the MAC address should be encrypted. The Secure TAG of MACsec encompasses both VLAN-tagged and non-VLAN-tagged frames, securing all traffic that travels through the interface of an Open Fronthaul network element.

In some implementations it may be possible to configure additional policies to bypass MACsec protection based on EtherType, VLAN ID, and destination address. When enabled, this capability allows certain types of Open Fronthaul traffic, such as S-Plane, to remain unencrypted and bypass MACsec protection. This behavior is not standardized in IEEE 802.1AE-2018[79], and interoperability may be limited.

This clause specifies the security controls for configuring MACsec to protect the entire Ethernet frame after the MAC address. The Open Fronthaul network elements include the O-DU, O-RU and TNE.

SEC-CTL-OFHLMM-1: The Open Fronthaul network elements may support securing of all Open Fronthaul traffic using MACsec.

SEC-CTL-OFHLMM-2: The Open Fronthaul network elements may support the configuration of policies to allow certain type of Open Fronthaul traffic to be sent in clear text.

SEC-CTL-OFHLMM-3: If an Open Fronthaul network element supports securing of all Open Fronthaul traffic using MACsec, the Open Fronthaul network element shall support the cipher suites, as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.9.

##### Key Management Provisions for MACsec

A critical element of MACsec security framework are the hierarchy of keys, as defined in clause 6.2 of IEEE 802.1X-2020 [12]. which are fundamental to the secure operation of MACsec [79].

The following clause describes two key management provisions for establishing MACsec keys.

- Key Management Provision 1: Using EAP and MKA to establish MACsec keys
- Key Management Provision 2: Using Pre-Shared Keys (PSKs) and MKA for MACsec Configuration
The MACsec Key Agreement (MKA) protocol as specified in IEEE 802.1X Port-Based Network Access Control [12] is used for the secure exchange and distribution of MACsec keys [12] among MACsec-enabled devices. The master session key (MSK) is generated as a by-product of the EAP Authentication process. The Connectivity Association Key (CAK) is then derived from the MSK. The Secure Association Key (SAK) is derived from the CAK through a secure key derivation process managed by the MKA protocol as specified in IEEE 802.1X [12]. The SAK is used to encrypt and verify the integrity of data frames passing over the protected link. The MACsec Key Agreement (MKA) protocol seamlessly discovers peers and distributes SAK keys, ensuring that only authorized devices can engage in the secure exchange of information.

This clause specifies the security controls for Key Management of MACsec using MKA.

SEC-CTL-MACsec-KM-1: An Open Fronthaul network element with MACsec capabilities should support the key distribution and management using the MACsec Key Agreement (MKA) protocol based on a previous, successful, EAP-TLS authentication, as defined in clause 6.3.1 and clause 9 of IEEE 802.1X-2020 [12].

Another option for MACsec key management involves the use of pre-shared keys (PSKs) for authentication as defined in IEEE 802.1X-2020, clause 6.3.3 [12]. PSKs provide a simplified method for key distribution, particularly in scenarios where EAP authentication mechanisms are not required or practical. The PSK approach allows MACsec-enabled devices to configure Connectivity Association Keys (CAKs) directly through administrative setup, bypassing the need for an EAP authentication process.

SEC-CTL-MACsec-KM-2: An Open Fronthaul network element with MACsec capabilities may support the key distribution and management using the MACsec Key Agreement (MKA) protocol with pre-shared keys, as defined in clause 6.3.3 and clause 9 of IEEE 802.1X-2020 [12].

> NOTE:	Use of pre-shared Keys is not recommended.

### R1 Interface

REQ-SEC-R1-3: R1 interface shall support authorization with the principle of least privilege.

### Y1 Interface

##### Y1 interface protocol structure solution 1

> NOTE 1:	In mTLS, both the client (the Y1 consumer) and the server (the Y1 provider) require a certificate, and both sides authenticate each other using their public/private key pair.
SEC-CTL-Y1-2: The Y1 interface protocol structure solution 1 shall support the OAuth 2.0 authorization framework as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.7.

The roles defined in OAuth 2.0 shall be assigned as follows:

Resource owner / Resource server (producer): Y1 provider

Client (consumer): Y1 consumer

SEC-CTL-Y1-3: The Y1 interface protocol structure solution 1 shall support TLS, as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.2, to provide data confidentiality, integrity, and replay-protection.

## Transversal requirements

Void

Void

#### Package Protection

REQ-SEC-ALM-FUN2-1: Void

REQ-SEC-ALM-FUN3-1: Void

REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-1: The Solution Provider shall perform a vulnerability assessment of the application package prior to signing and delivery.

EXAMPLE:	Refer to Annex C clause C.2.1 for additional information on application testing and scanning throughout the lifecycle of the application.

REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-2: The application package shall be authenticity and integrity protected by the Solution Provider prior to its delivery.

REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-2A: The application package sensitive artifacts should be confidentiality protected by the Solution Provider prior to the package delivery.

REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-3: The application package shall include the signing certificate and signature(s) of Solution Provider.

REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-4: Each application artifact shall be digitally signed individually by the Solution Provider.

REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-5: SMO shall verify all application artifacts authenticity and integrity during onboarding.

REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-6: SMO shall verify application package authenticity and integrity during onboarding.

REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-7A:.Void.

REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-7B: The Solution Provider shall have a vulnerability management process in place, including mechanisms for external parties to report vulnerabilities and procedures to assess and remediate discovered vulnerabilities.

REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-7C: Void.

> NOTE 1: 	REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-7B outlines best practices for effective vulnerability management. It is not directly testable and depends on the agreed processes between Solution and Service Providers.
REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-8: Application packages or application artifacts should be digitally signed by Service Provider before it is stored in any Service Provider repository

REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-9: Verification of the digital signature(s) on the application package by an O-RAN architecture element shall support checking the validity period of the certificate associated with the signature(s).

REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-10: Application packages and application artifacts stored in any Service Provider repository [16] shall be protected in terms of integrity and confidentiality.

REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-11: Application packages stored in any Service Provider repository [16] shall be accessible to only authorized entities and over networks that enforce authentication, integrity, and confidentiality.

REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-12: Every Service Provider repository shall contain only application packages and application artifacts with verifiable signature(s).

> NOTE 2:   Application packages and application artifacts are always signed by Solution Provider (see REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-2, REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-4). Additionally, Service Provider has option to sign application packages and application artifacts using its own certificates (see REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-8). If Service Provider signs as well, there are 2 signatures present.
REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-13: Sensitive information used during the lifecycle of the application shall be protected in terms of confidentiality at rest and in transit, see [41], [42] and [46]

REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-14: SMO shall contain a pre-installed root certificate of trusted CA (trusted by the Service Provider) before the onboarding of the application package for verifying its authenticity and integrity. Root certificate shall be delivered via a trusted channel separately from an application package [42].

REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-15: Application packages shall have a Change Log. All the changes in the application package from its creation and updates by the Solution Provider shall be versioned, tracked, and inventoried in the Change Log [43].

> NOTE 3:	Change log can also be provided separately as an external artifact.
> NOTE 4: 	The Service Provider is responsible for recording events related to onboarding, deployment, and operational changes that do not modify the application package itself.
REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-16: During deployment, SMO or O-Cloud shall verify all application artifacts authenticity and integrity.

SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-1: During onboarding, SMO shall verify the signature(s) of the application package as well as the signature(s) of application artifacts.

To verify the signature of an application package in the ETSI profile [80] at onboarding, one of the two following options shall be followed as defined in ETSI GS NFV-SOL004 [42],clause 5:

- Option 1: The application package contains a Digest (a.k.a. hash) for each of the artifacts in the manifest of the application package. The manifest is signed with the Solution Provider private key.
- Option 2: The complete application package is signed with the Solution Provider private key.
> NOTE 1: The packaging format for container-based applications in the Kubernetes profile is being defined at the time of publishing this specification. The Solution Provider is referred to as VNF Provider in ETSI GS NFV-SOL 004 [42].
The signature verification process of an application package in the ETSI profile [80] at onboarding comprises the following steps:

Responsible: Solution Provider, Service Provider

- Application package shall be delivered to the Service Provider together with a signing Solution Provider certificate and signature.
- The root CA certificate shall be pre-installed within the SMO for the validation of the Solution Provider signing certificate authenticity.
- Upon reception of the signed application package from Solution Provider by the Service Provider:
- In Option 1, SMO shall verify the signature of the manifest. SMO shall recalculate the digests of all artifacts and all digests shall be verified against the ones in the manifest.
- In Option 2, SMO shall verify the application package signature.
- SMO shall verify the Solution Provider digital signature of every application artifact.
- SMO may sign onboarded application package before storing it in any Service Provider repository.
- SMO may sign onboarded application artifacts before storing them in any Service Provider repository.
SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-1A: Algorithms, key sizes, and standards to be used for digital signing and verification of digital signature shall follow the "O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications" [3], clause 5.

SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-1B: During deployment, SMO or O-Cloud shall verify the signatures of all the onboarded application artifacts necessary for deployment, both the Service Provider signature created by Service Provider, if applicable by the Service Provider policy, and the Solution Provider signature.

SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-2: Sensitive artifacts shall be encrypted for confidentiality protection.

SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-2A: Algorithms, key sizes, and standards to be used for encryption/decryption shall follow the O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 5.

SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-3: Applications supported in the ETSI profile [80] shall be compliant with ETSI NFV specifications, ETSI GS NFV-SOL004 [42] clause 5, and ETSI GS NFV-SEC 021 [41] clauses 5 and 6, for package formats and signing/verification procedures.

> NOTE 2: 	The packaging format for container-based applications in the Kubernetes profile is being defined at the time of publishing this specification.
SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-4: Encryption shall be used to secure cryptographic keys used by the cryptographic operations.

EXAMPLE:	Cryptographic operations include signature generation/verification, encryption/decryption, and hashing.

#### Secure Update

REQ-SEC-ALM-SU-1: Update to an application package shall follow the same security requirements as an application package.

REQ-SEC-ALM-SU-2: Applications should be updated with their latest security updates.

REQ-SEC-ALM-SU-3: Applications should be protected from downgrade attacks to older, possibly vulnerable, software versions.

REQ-SEC-ALM-SU-4: Void.

#### Security Descriptor

REQ-SEC-LCM-SD-1: The application descriptor shall support a description of the security group rules. Those rules shall be associated to the relevant application interfaces.

EXAMPLE:	Security group rules include permissions, access control and filtering rules

REQ-SEC-LCM-SD-2: The application descriptor shall support a description of the Service Availability Level (SAL) requirements for virtual resources on the underlying O-Cloud platform.

REQ-SEC-LCM-SD-3: The O-Cloud platform shall use the security group rules in the application descriptor for controlling the traffic direction, who can access the application, what actions they can perform, and what level of access they have.

REQ-SEC-LCM-SD-4: The SMO shall use the Service Availability Level (SAL) in the application descriptor for governing the status (availability, deployment, and operation) of applications and reacting whenever a SAL requirement is being breached.

REQ-SEC-LCM-SD-5: The NFO shall support the ability to compare the application’s current owned resource consumption with the defined resource quotas from the application descriptor.

REQ-SEC-LCM-SD-6: The NFO shall send an alarm to the SMO if the application’s current owned resource consumption exceeds the defined resource quotas from the application descriptor.

REQ-SEC-LCM-SD-7: The comparing process between the application’s current owned resource consumption and the defined resource quotas from the application descriptor should be triggered periodically by the NFO.

#### Secure Deletion of Sensitive Data

REQ-SEC-DEL-1: Void

SEC-CTL-DEL-1: Void

SEC-CTL-DEL-2: Void

#### Decommissioning of Applications

REQ-SEC-ALM-DECOM-1: A complete post-decommission report documenting the tasks performed during application decommissioning shall be generated.

REQ-SEC-ALM-DECOM-2: Legacy data and software should be archived.

REQ-SEC-ALM-DECOM-3: All trust artifacts associated with an application shall be revoked at the time of decommissioning.

EXAMPLE:	Trust artifacts include digital certificates, OAuth tokens, and application identifiers, etc.

### Network Protocols and Services

REQ-SEC-NET-1: A list of network protocols and services supported on the O-RAN component shall be clearly documented by its vendor. Unused protocols shall be disabled.

### Robustness of Common Protocols

REQ-SEC-TRAN-1: Common protocols used in an O-RAN system should be able to handle unexpected inputs without functional compromise. These protocols include IP, UDP, TCP, SCTP, TLS, SSH, HTTP, HTTP/2, IPsec, and eCPRI.

> NOTE:	The unexpected inputs include random mutations of the protocol headers and payloads, as well as targeted fuzzing with state awareness.

### Robustness against Volumetric DDoS Attack

REQ-SEC-DOS-1: An O-RAN architecture element with network interface shall be able to withstand network transport protocol based volumetric DDoS attack without system crash and returning to its normal service level after the attack subsides.

SEC-CTL-DOS-1: Void

### Robustness of O-RAN architecture element software

REQ-SEC-SYS-1: Known vulnerabilities in the software of an O-RAN architecture element shall be identified.

### Password-Based Authentication

REQ-SEC-PASS-1: If password is used as an authentication attribute, O-RAN architecture elements should follow security best practices, such as [i.26].

> NOTE:	This allows to mitigate risks resulting from different password-based authentication attacks such as brute-forcing, unauthorized password resets, man-in-the-middle, and dictionary attacks.
SEC-CTL-PASS-1: O-RAN architecture elements with default password shall support the ability to change the password.

SEC-CTL-PASS-2: O-RAN architecture elements shall support account lock-out for repeated failed login attempts. The number of failed login attempts shall be configurable.

> NOTE: 	The number of attempts may be guided by the organization’s policy.
SEC-CTL-PASS-3: Passwords shall be encrypted when stored and transmitted.

### Security Log Management

#### Generic Requirements

REQ-SEC-SLM-1: An O-RAN component shall support the generation and transmission of security log data.

#### Requirements for Cluster Node

##### Requirements on Security Log Data Storage

REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-1: The Security Log data shall be persistently stored in a non-volatile memory.

> NOTE:	This refers to Security Log data at rest and applies to back-up Security Log data as well.
REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-2: Any anomalies detected in log settings, configurations, and processes shall be logged.

REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-3: The O-RAN Network Function(s), the O-Cloud platform and infrastructure, and the SMO Framework shall create Security Log data.

REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-4: Security Log data shall be created and maintained per App, per xApp, or per rApp.

REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-5: The created and stored Security Log data shall provide all necessary information to deduce the root cause of a system behaviour.

REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-6: The Security Log data access management shall be protected.

REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-7: The access to Security Log data shall be authenticated and authorized.

REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-8: Any change of access rights to Security Log data shall be logged.

REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-9: Changing the access rights of security log data is only possible with privileged access rights.

REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-10: The Security Log data process shall support Log data rotation. Log data rotation in this context refers to a closing of a Log-storage and opening a new Log-storage when the first Log-storage is complete.

REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-11: The Security Log data rotation process shall be configurable at regular time and when the maximum log size is reached.

REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-12: The Security Log data process shall log any log rotation reconfiguration.

REQ-SEC-SLM-TESS-13: The system shall be capable of creating, processing, transmitting, and always storing all required security log events.

##### Requirements on Security Log-data in Motion

REQ-SEC-SLM-TESM-1: The Security Log data in motion shall be protected from unauthorized access.

REQ-SEC-SLM-TESM-2: The Security Log data in motion shall be confidentiality, integrity and replay protected.

REQ-SEC-SLM-TESM-3: A mutual authentication shall be performed for any setup of a secure communication channel.

REQ-SEC-SLM-TESM-4: If a Security Log data integrity verification has failed, the Security Log data and a related failure notification shall be logged.

REQ-SEC-SLM-TESM-5: If a Security Log data appears outside of its expected receiving window, the Security Log data and the related notification shall be logged.

#### Log data Repository

##### Requirements on Storage in Log data Repository

REQ-SEC-TESR-1: The Security Log data stored in the repository shall be protected from unauthorized access.

REQ-SEC-TESR-2: The Security Log data which have been created inside the trusted environment of the repository shall be persistently stored in a non-volatile memory.

> NOTE:	This refers to Log data at rest and applies to back-up Log data.
REQ-SEC-TESR-4: Security Log data from different cluster node(s) shall be stored isolated from each other.

REQ-SEC-TESR-5: The Security Log data repository shall grant write only operation to cluster node(s).

REQ-SEC-TESR-6: Security Log data which are stored in the repository shall be confidentiality and integrity protected.

REQ-SEC-TESR-7: The Security Log data repository shall support attribute-based (ABAC) access management according to NIST SP800-162 [67].

REQ-SEC-TESR-8: The Security Log data access management shall support operations for read, write, edit, delete, copy, execute and modify.

REQ-SEC-TESR-9: The access management ABAC mechanisms shall include the Subject Attributes, the Resource Objects Attributes, the Access Control Rules (policy), and the environmental conditions.

REQ-SEC-TESR-10: The Log data repository shall create and store Security Log data in a non-volatile memory.

REQ-SEC-TESR-11: Security Log data in use shall be protected from unauthorized access.

#### Secure storage of security log data

REQ-SEC-SLM-SST-1: O-RAN architecture elements shall support export of security log data to be stored in a centralized location.

REQ-SEC-SLM-SST-2: Security log data shall be stored in a tamper-proof manner to ensure their confidentiality and integrity.

REQ-SEC-SLM-SST-3: Retention policies for security log data shall be established to determine how long logs shall be kept.

REQ-SEC-SLM-SST-4: Access to the log storage shall be restricted to authorized personnel only.

REQ-SEC-SLM-SST-5: Access to the log storage shall be logged.

REQ-SEC-SLM-SST-6: Backup of the log storage shall be performed regularly.

REQ-SEC-SLM-SST-7: O-RAN elements shall be authorized to only send security log data to centralized log storage.

SEC-CTL-SLM-SST-1: Centralized storage for security log data should be realized using centralized logging servers or cloud-based services.

SEC-CTL-SLM-SST-2: Tamper-proof storage of security log data may be achieved through digital signature, encryption, and hashing techniques.

SEC-CTL-SLM-SST-3: The retention period should be based on legal, regulatory, and compliance requirements, as well as the organization's own policies.

#### Secure Transfer of security log data

REQ-SEC-SLM-STR-1: Security log data shall be confidentiality- and integrity- protected during transfer to protect them from unauthorized access or tampering.

REQ-SEC-SLM-STR-2: The parties involved in the security log transfer shall mutually authenticate each other to ensure that the logs are coming from a trusted source and going to a trusted destination. Failures detected during the authentication shall be logged.

REQ-SEC-SLM-STR-3: Mechanisms shall be in place to ensure the integrity of the security log data during transfer.

REQ-SEC-SLM-STR-4: The log transfer process shall be auditable to enable the tracking and identification of any unauthorized or suspicious log transfers.

REQ-SEC-SLM-STR-5: An O-RAN component may support log streaming for security log events.

SEC-CTL-SLM-STR-1: O-RAN architecture elements may support secure transfer of security log data using FTPES, as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 6.3.

SEC-CTL-SLM-STR-2: An O-RAN component may support the transport of Syslog as defined in RFC 5424 [64] over TLS as defined in RFC 5425 [65] for log streaming of security log events.

SEC-CTL-SLM-STR-3: O-RAN architecture elements may support secure transfer of security log data using SFTP, as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 6.2.

#### Log Format

REQ-SEC-SLM-FMT-1: Security logs shall be formatted in a consistent, standard, and machine-readable format that maintains backward compatibility with previous log format versions.

#### Log Fields

REQ-SEC-SLM-FLD-1: Security logs shall include the date and time of the security event for each log entry, using a consistent and standardized format that logs time to at least the second.

REQ-SEC-SLM-FLD-2: Security logs shall record the location of the security event for each log entry. For network transactions, the location shall incorporate both the source and destination IP addresses. In cases where security events transpire within a single component, the location field shall only contain the source IP address.

REQ-SEC-SLM-FLD-3: Security logs shall include the entity that is the cause of the security event for each log entry.

SEC-CTL-SLM-FLD-1: Security logs should use the ISO 8601 date and time format [62].

SEC-CTL-SLM-FLD-2: Security logs shall use IP addresses for the location field.

#### Authenticated Time Stamping and Missing Time Source

REQ-SEC-SLM-ATS-1: All network functions shall be synchronised to a common and authenticated time source.

REQ-SEC-SLM-ATS-2: Any successful as well as the unsuccessful synchronization to the common time source shall be logged.

REQ-SEC-SLM-ATS-3: The Security Log-data shall be time-stamped with the system time in case of unsuccessful synchronisation to a common time source.

REQ-SEC-SLM-ATS-4: The Security Log-data recording shall take place in the order in which the (security) log events occur.

REQ-SEC-SLM-ATS-5: The Security Log data shall contain a timestamp that includes a timezone.

SEC-CTL-SLM-ATS-1: The Network Time Protocol (NTP) version 4 should be supported as specified by RFC5905[60] for the support of authenticated time stamping.

SEC-CTL-SLM-ATS-2: If NTPv4 authentication is in use, then AES-CMAC as specified by RFC4493 [78] shall be supported. In this use case the NTP client can verify the integrity of the received NTP-packet.

SEC-CTL-SLM-ATS-3: If NTP security (as specified by RFC5905 [60]) is in use for the integrity and replay protection of NTP-packets, then NTS (RFC8915 [63]) shall be supported.

> NOTE:	In this use case the NTP client may verify the authenticity of the NTP packets by use of X.509 PKI infrastructure.
SEC-CTL-SLM-CTS-1: The Time Stamp representation should be in a standardized format, and the format in use should be logged. For reference to the formatting please refer to RFC 3339 [61] and ISO 8601 [62].

#### Void

#### Security Events to be Logged

##### Network Security Event Log Requirements

REQ-SEC-SLM-NET-EVT-1: O-Cloud shall log all physical and virtual network events related to creating and modifying network configurations, enabling, and disabling ports, network connections, and packets over limit from the firewalls from all host operating systems, hypervisors, and container engines.

##### System Security Event Log Requirements

REQ-SEC-SLM-GEN-EVT-1: O-Cloud shall log the following resource-related events: shortages, system crashes, reboots, shutdowns, resource creation, and deletion from all host operating systems, hypervisors, and container engines.

REQ-SEC-SLM-GEN-EVT-2: O-Cloud shall log when maintenance activity is undertaken for host operating systems, hypervisors, and container engines.

REQ-SEC-SLM-GEN-EVT-3: O-Cloud shall log the creation of scheduled jobs and the particular time the job will run for all host operating systems, hypervisors, and container engines.

REQ-SEC-SLM-GEN-EVT-4: O-Cloud shall log a security event when driver tampering is detected.

> NOTE:	This includes but is not limited to modifications made to the main driver executable and any associated files, libraries, dependencies, or configuration files.
REQ-SEC-SLM-GEN-EVT-5: O-Cloud shall log a security event when it detects unauthorized changes to the O-Cloud hardware resource configuration.

REQ-SEC-SLM-GEN-EVT-6: O-Cloud shall log a security event when it detects unauthorized changes to the Application configuration.

SEC-CTL-SLM-GEN-EVT-1: O-Cloud shall log a security event if driver signature verification fails.

SEC-CTL-SLM-GEN-EVT-2: O-Cloud shall implement a robust File Integrity Monitoring (FIM) system that continuously monitors the integrity of all driver-related files, including executables, libraries, configuration files, and dependencies. The FIM system shall be configured to calculate cryptographic hashes of these files as baseline values and regularly compare the current cryptographic hashes with their baseline hashes stored in the FIM system.

SEC-CTL-SLM-GEN-EVT-3: O-Cloud shall log a security event if any hashes of driver files do not match their baseline values.

SEC-CTL-SLM-GEN-EVT-4: Baseline configurations for the hardware resource shall be established by the SMO, and regularly compared to the current state.

SEC-CTL-SLM-GEN-EVT-5: O-Cloud shall log a security event when it detects unauthorized deviation from the O-Cloud hardware resource configuration baseline.

SEC-CTL-SLM-GEN-EVT-6: Baseline configurations for each Application shall be established by the SMO, and regularly compared to the current state.

SEC-CTL-SLM-GEN-EVT-7: O-Cloud shall log a security event when it detects unauthorized deviation from the Application configuration baseline.

> NOTE:    Log management systems, such as SIEM, fall beyond the purview of O-RAN and are considered external entities. In the context of O-Cloud, it's recommended to set up these log management systems to dispatch notifications to the administrator when any of the following security events take place:
- Driver signature verification fails.
- Driver file hash verification fails.
- Unauthorized deviations from the O-Cloud hardware resource configuration baseline are detected.
- Unauthorized deviations from the application configuration baseline are detected.
REQ-SEC-SLM-HYP-EVT-1: O-Cloud shall log all changes to operating system configurations, hypervisor configurations, changes to virtualization settings, and changes to resource allocations.

REQ-SEC-SLM-HYP-EVT-2: O-Cloud shall log all hypervisor events related to attaching or detaching virtual disks.

REQ-SEC-SLM-HYP-EVT-3: O-Cloud shall log all hypervisor events related to creating, starting, stopping, restarting, and deleting virtual machines.

REQ-SEC-SLM-CON-EVT-1: O-Cloud shall log all image repository events related to additions, modifications, and removal of images.

REQ-SEC-SLM-CON-EVT-2: O-Cloud shall log all container engine events related to volume creation, deletion, and mounting.

REQ-SEC-SLM-CON-EVT-3: O-Cloud shall log all container engine events related to creating, starting, stopping, restarting, and deleting containers.

##### Application Security Event Log Requirements

REQ-SEC-SLM-APP-EVT-1: O-RAN Network Functions shall log any errors or exceptions generated.

REQ-SEC-SLM-APP-EVT-2: O-RAN Network Functions shall log the use of any dynamically loaded libraries, including the name and version information of the library being loaded.

##### Data Access Security Event Log Requirements

REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-1: O-RAN components shall log successful file additions, deletions, and unsuccessful attempts due to errors and authorization issues.

REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-2: O-RAN components should log successful file reads and writes.

REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-3: O-RAN components shall log unsuccessful attempts of file reads and writes due to errors and authorization issues.

REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-4: O-RAN components shall log successful directory additions, deletions, and unsuccessful attempts due to errors and authorization issues.

REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-5: O-RAN components shall log successful database or data store additions, deletions, and unsuccessful attempts due to errors and authorization issues.

REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-6: O-RAN components should log successful database or data store reads and writes.

REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-7: O-RAN components shall log unsuccessful attempts of database and data store reads and writes.

REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-8: O-RAN components shall log permission changes to files, directories, databases, or data stores.

##### Account and Identity Security Event Log Requirements

REQ-SEC-SLM-AAI-EVT-1: O-RAN components shall log account creation, modification, deletion, and unsuccessful attempts.

REQ-SEC-SLM-AAI-EVT-2: O-RAN components shall log changes to account privilege levels and unsuccessful attempts.

REQ-SEC-SLM-AAI-EVT-3: O-RAN components shall log successful group membership changes for accounts and unsuccessful change attempts.

REQ-SEC-SLM-AAI-EVT-4: O-RAN components shall log successful and unsuccessful authentication attempts for accounts.

REQ-SEC-SLM-AAI-EVT-5: O-RAN components shall log successful and unsuccessful authorization attempts to create a session or initiate a transaction.

REQ-SEC-SLM-AAI-EVT-6: O-RAN components shall log the termination of sessions or transactions.

REQ-SEC-SLM-AAI-EVT-7: O-RAN components shall log the occurrence of downgraded privileges or elevation of privileges for accounts.

REQ-SEC-SLM-AAI-EVT-8: Void

REQ-SEC-SLM-AAI-EVT-9: O-RAN components shall log transactions successfully executed by accounts and unsuccessful attempts.

REQ-SEC-SLM-AAI-EVT-10: O-RAN components shall log requests that do not require an authenticated account.

##### General Security Event Log Requirements

REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-1: O-RAN components shall log the activation and deactivation of security software related to security logging, firewalls, malware protection, data loss prevention (DLP), and intrusion detection systems (IDS).

REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-2: O-RAN components shall log the use of administrative privileges.

REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-3: O-RAN components shall log any change to a security-related configuration item, including a description of the configuration change.

REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-4: O-RAN components shall log the occurrence of viewing, renewing, exporting, importing, modifying, and deleting of certificates and keys. The logged data for these events shall not include any sensitive information related to the certificates or the keys.

REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-5: O-RAN components shall log the occurrence of cryptographic operations on resources involved in signatures, encryption, decryption, hashing, key generation, and key destruction. The logged data for these events shall not include any sensitive information related to the cryptographic operations.

REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-6: O-RAN components shall log security patches submitted but not applied.

#### Log data Lifecycle Management

REQ-SEC-LCSS-2: The Security Log data process shall support Log data rotation.

> NOTE:	Log data rotation in this context refers to a closing of a Log-storage and opening a new Log-storage when the first Log-storage is complete.
REQ-SEC-LCSS-3: The Security Log data rotation process shall be configurable at regular time intervals and when the maximum log size is reached.

REQ-SEC-LCSS-4: The Security Log data process shall log any log rotation reconfiguration.

REQ-SEC-LCSS-5: The system shall be capable of creating, processing, transmitting, and always storing all required security log events.

#### Requirements on Security Log data Policy

REQ-SEC-POL-5: The archived Security Log data and their storage media shall be checked periodically to determine whether the Security Log data is accessible.

REQ-SEC-POL-6: The archived Log data and their media shall be physically protected.

REQ-SEC-POL-7: The personally identifiable information (PII) shall be removed from archived Security Log data. For details on PII please refer to ([68]).

REQ-SEC-POL-8: The archived Security Log data shall be integrity and confidentiality protected.

REQ-SEC-POL-9: For the Security Log data lifecycle a policy shall be supported for log retention and log preservation. If this provides filter options, then security Log data shall not be filtered out.

REQ-SEC-POL-10: The log policy shall include requirements for log generation, log transmission, storage and disposal, and log analysis.

#### Preventing (D)DoS to Security Log Data

##### General

The Requirements below are applicable to the vendors of the log management infrastructure.

REQ-SEC-SLM-DoS-1: The log management infrastructure should be designed to support typical and peak volume of log data to be processed per hour and day [58].

REQ-SEC-SLM-DoS-2: The log management infrastructure should support the handling of peak situations for extreme situations [58].

> NOTE 1:	Extreme situations in this context refer to widespread malware incidents, vulnerability scanning, and penetration tests that might cause unusual large number of log entries.
REQ-SEC-SLM-DoS-3: The log management infrastructure should provide notifications at different log data volumes.

> NOTE 2:	This refers to the introduction of escalation levels at different log data volumes.
REQ-SEC-SLM-DoS-4: The log management infrastructure should provide notifications at different log data event rates.

> NOTE 3:	This refers to the introduction of escalation levels at different log data event rates.
REQ-SEC-SLM-DoS-5: The log management infrastructure should support mechanisms for log data redundancy.

REQ-SEC-SLM-DoS-6: The log management infrastructure should trigger the archiving of log data based on the level of escalation achieved.

> NOTE 4:	The escalation level may be triggered by increased log data volume or log data event rates.
REQ-SEC-SLM-DoS-7: The log management infrastructure should trigger the retention of log data based on the level of escalation achieved.

> NOTE 5:	The escalation level may be triggered by increased log data volume or log data event rates.

#### Preventing Tampering of Log Data

The Requirements below are applicable to the vendors of the log management infrastructure.

REQ-SEC-SLM-TLD-1: The log management infrastructure should support access management for log data.

REQ-SEC-SLM-TLD-2: The log management infrastructure should support real time logging (log data streaming).

REQ-SEC-SLM-TLD-3: The log management infrastructure should support replication of log data.

REQ-SEC-SLM-TLD-4: The log management infrastructure should support the derivation of digests of log-data to existing and preceding digests with the aim to keep the cryptographic chain and to attest the completeness and the integrity of the security events.

### Certificate Management Framework

#### 5.3.9.1.1 PNFs

REQ-SEC-CMF-PNF-1: An O-RAN PNF requiring a PKI certificate shall support certificate management protocol.

REQ-SEC-CMF-PNF-2: In order to facilitate vendor certificate-based initial enrolment of PNFs, vendors shall pre-install vendor-signed certificates in PNFs.

REQ-SEC-CMF-PNF-3: In order to facilitate vendor certificate-based initial enrolment of PNFs, operators shall pre-provision the FQDN/IP address of RA/CA to PNFs.

EXAMPLE 1: pre-configurations before deployment

EXAMPLE 2: startup installation procedure as defined in [14], clause 6.1.

REQ-SEC-CMF-PNF-4: PNFs which use vendor-signed certificates for initial certificate enrolment should monitor the expiry of the vendor root CA certificate or any of the sub-CA certificates in the trust chain used to sign the certificate.

REQ-SEC-CMF-PNF-5: When the expiry of the vendor root CA certificate or any of the sub-CA certificates in the trust chain is approaching, PNFs should raise notifications (alarms) with increasing levels of severity as the expiry date gets closer.

REQ-SEC-CMF-PNF-6: In the event the secure storage space has exceeded the configured storage limits, the PNF should raise notifications and/or alarms.

#### 5.3.9.1.2 VNFs/CNFs

REQ-SEC-CMF-VNF_CNF-1: The O-Cloud shall support a certificate management protocol for use by O-RAN VNFs/CNFs that require a PKI certificate.

REQ-SEC-CMF-VNF_CNF-2: An O-RAN VNF/CNF requiring a PKI certificate directly from a CA/RA, without O-Cloud involvement, shall support a certificate management protocol.

REQ-SEC-CMF-VNF_CNF-3: SMO shall configure all the initial information needed for certificate enrolment during NF Deployment of a VNF/CNF.

#### 5.3.9.1.3 Any NF (PNF/VNF/CNF)

REQ-SEC-CMF-ANYNF-1: Any offline or out-of-band (automated or manual) PSK/Refnum generation, distribution and provisioning systems shall provide PSK/Refnum values only to an authorized PNF/CNF/VNF.

REQ-SEC-CMF-ANYNF-2: NFs shall raise alarms/notifications and/or security events alerting about the certificates about to expire in the near future with increasing severity levels as the expiry date approaches.

REQ-SEC-CMF-ANYNF-3: SMO or certificate management systems should instruct NFs to trigger certificate renewal procedures according to operator’s policies.

EXAMPLE 1:	Policy 1: instruct NFs to trigger certificate renewals in a staggered manner

EXAMPLE 2:	Policy 2: instruct NFs to trigger certificate renewals according to resource availability

REQ-SEC-CMF-ANYNF-4: NFs shall provide interfaces to allow configuration of the advance alarms/notifications/security events interval prior to certificate expiry for different severity levels.

EXAMPLE 3:	Configuration: Minor alarm N1 days before expiry, Major alarm, and security event N2 days before expiry, Critical alarm, and security events N3 days before expiry of certificates, Critical alarm, and security event every day after expiry.

REQ-SEC-CMF-ANYNF-5: NFs shall trigger certificate renewal procedure before the certificate expiry using policies provided by the operator.

EXAMPLE 4:	Policy 1: Trigger renewal N1/N2/N3 days before expiry.

EXAMPLE 5:	Policy 2: Trigger renewal when instructed by SMO or certificate management.

REQ-SEC-CMF-ANYNF-6: NFs shall provide interfaces to enable certificate management systems to trigger certificate renewal before the expiry.

REQ-SEC-CMF-ANYNF-7: NFs shall send a notification to the SMO indicating the success or failure state after the certificate renewal completion.

REQ-SEC-CMF-ANYNF-8: NFs shall raise a critical alarm as well as log security events if the certificate for NF(s) has expired.

REQ-SEC-CMF-ANYNF-9: NFs should raise a critical alarm as well as log security events if the certificate renewal has failed.

REQ-SEC-CMF-ANYNF-10: In the event the newly installed/renewed certificate fails, the NF shall continue to use its previous certificate until that certificate expires.

REQ-SEC-CMF-ANYNF-11: CRL servers (either LDAP or HTTP access as stated in clause 6.1.1 of the 3GPP TS 33.310[2]) should be used by NFs to check the revocation status of certificates.

REQ-SEC-CMF-ANYNF-12: In the event of failure to connect with CRL servers, notifications and/or alarms should be raised by NFs.

#### 5.3.9.1.4 O-Cloud

REQ-SEC-CMF-O-CLOUD-1: In the event the secure storage space has exceeded the configured storage limits, the O-Cloud should raise notifications and/or alarms.

REQ-SEC-CMF-O-CLOUD-2: The O-Cloud shall support automated certificate lifecycle management.

REQ-SEC-CMF-O-CLOUD-3: The O-Cloud shall support integration with external CAs for the issuance of certificates.

REQ-SEC-CMF-O-CLOUD-4: The O-Cloud shall implement secure and robust mechanisms for the generation of cryptographic keys.

#### 5.3.9.2 Security Controls

#### 5.3.9.2.1 PNFs

SEC-CTL-CMF-PNF-1: An O-RAN PNF requiring a PKI certificate shall support CMPv2 as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.6.

#### 5.3.9.2.2 VNFs/CNFs

SEC-CTL-CMF-VNF_CNF-1: Void

SEC-CTL-CMF-VNF_CNF-2: An O-RAN VNF/CNF requiring a PKI certificate from a CA/RA shall support CMPv2 as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.6.

#### 5.3.9.2.3 Any NF (PNF/VNF/CNF)

SEC-CTL-CMF-ANYNF-1: NFs may establish TLS connection using renewed certificates before terminating existing TLS connections.

SEC-CTL-CMF-ANYNF-2: NFs may terminate any established TLS connection after the renewed certificates are validated and re-establish TLS connection with new certificate.

SEC-CTL-CMF-ANYNF-3: NFs may wait for already established TLS connections to close before applying the renewed certificate for new TLS connections.

### Application Programming Interfaces (APIs)

REQ-SEC-API-1: APIs used in O-RAN to access an internal or external data source should perform object-level authorization checks.

### Trust Anchor Provisioning

REQ-SEC-TAP-2: An O-RAN PNF shall support the secure storage of the trust anchors in a secure element or a secure enclave such that they cannot be tampered with or modified.

REQ-SEC-TAP-3: An O-RAN PNF using PKIX certificates shall enable an authorized function to recover the list of provisioned trust anchors and associated public keys.

REQ-SEC-TAP-4: An O-RAN PNF shall be able to be securely provisioned with new trust anchors and have an existing trust anchor replaced, for events such as expiration.

REQ-SEC-TAP-5: An O-RAN PNF shall log an event for each trust anchor provisioning operation.

SEC-CTL-TAP-1: An O-RAN PNF shall support CMPv2, as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 4.6, for trust anchor provisioning.

SEC-CTL-TAP-2: An O-RAN PNF may support voucher-based protocols [69] to enable an O-RAN function to be securely provisioned with a new trust anchor.

SEC-CTL-TAP-3: An O-RAN PNF may support BRSKI [70] for trust anchor provisioning.

SEC-CTL-TAP-4: An O-RAN PNF may support SZTP [71] for trust anchor provisioning.

SEC-CTL-TAP-5: An O-RAN PNF may support 3GPP SCS [72], [73], [74] for download of initial security configuration.

### AI/ML Security

REQ-SEC-AIML-1: Access to AI/ML models shall be authenticated and authorized.

REQ-SEC-AIML-2: The systems controlling access to AI/ML models shall enforce access control policies that align with the principle of least privilege.

REQ-SEC-AIML-3: AI/ML models shall be protected in terms of integrity and confidentiality at rest, in use and in transit.

REQ-SEC-AIML-4: Input data used for AI/ML model training, testing and inference shall be sourced only from verified sources.

REQ-SEC-AIML-5: Data used for or produced by AI/ML model training, testing and inference shall be protected in terms of integrity and confidentiality at rest, in use and in transit.

REQ-SEC-AIML-6: Access to data used for or produced by AI/ML model training, testing and inference shall be authenticated and authorized.

REQ-SEC-AIML-7: Access control to data used for or produced by AI/ML model training, testing and inference shall enforce access control policies that align with the principle of least privilege.

REQ-SEC-AIML-8: An AI/ML model training process may incorporate differential privacy to prevent the model from memorizing sensitive information, thereby reducing the risk of data leakage.

REQ-SEC-AIML-9: An AI/ML model inference process may apply differential privacy to the outputs of AI/ML models, ensuring that query responses do not reveal sensitive information about individual data points.

REQ-SEC-AIML-10: AI/ML Training service Producer may check that the AI/ML model is not poisoned after the AI/ML Model evaluation.

> NOTE 1: Clause 5.1.3.2.4 of [i.17] details the Model evaluation for ML Testing
REQ-SEC-AIML-11: AI/ML Training service Producer may evaluate that the AI/ML model is not poisoned, before notifying the AI/ML training services Consumer about the completion of the training.

REQ-SEC-AIML-12: An O-RAN architecture element processing, storing or transferring AI/ML models may support the splitting of AI/ML models to enhance security and privacy.

EXAMPLE: Figure 5.3.12.2-1 shows a drawing of an example inference process with a deep neural network AI/ML model split across five different inference hosts.

REQ-SEC-AIML-13: Sanitization of input data before the data is used for AI/ML models’ training shall be supported.

REQ-SEC-AIML-14: Selection of a reduced set of relevant features for the AI/ML model training may be supported, to reduce the likelihood of attacks caused by feature manipulation.

REQ-SEC-AIML-15: Feature scaling of input data such that AI/ML model classifications are less susceptible to small variations in the input data may be supported.

REQ-SEC-AIML-16: The AI/ML training service Producer shall support the application of adversarial training to AI/ML models to enable the Models to be robust.

REQ-SEC-AIML-17: An ML Training/Inference host shall support authentication and authorization of all requests/triggers related to the life-cycle operations of AI/ML models.

REQ-SEC-AIML-18: An ML Training/Inference host shall enforce access control policies that align with the principle of least privilege of all requests/triggers related to the life-cycle operations of AI/ML models.

REQ-SEC-AIML-19: During inference, the AI/ML model should be capable of handling perturbations that are a small fraction of the input scale in model input data without degradation from target performance.

REQ-SEC-AIML-20: Ensemble methods may be supported in AI/ML training and inference to mitigate security weaknesses of individual AI/ML models.

REQ-SEC-AIML-21: AI/ML Model training service shall support retraining of the AI/ML Models with fresh and clean data to reduce potential vulnerabilities of static AI/ML Models and the impact of stale poisoned samples.

> NOTE 2: 	AI/ML Model retraining helps ensure that the models adapt to evolving data and are agile moving targets. This increases the effort required for attackers to keep up with changes and adapt their extraction techniques.
REQ-SEC-AIML-22: AI/ML model training may support distillation of AI/ML (teacher) models by training a simpler AI/ML (student) model on their outputs to mitigate information extraction attacks on the AI/ML (teacher) models.

REQ-SEC-AIML-23: The AI/ML inference service producer should support techniques to obscure the relationship between energy consumption and the computations being performed.

REQ-SEC-AIML-24: The AI/ML inference service provider should support techniques to equalize computation times across different operations.

REQ-SEC-AIML-25: The AI/ML inference service provider should support continuous monitoring of energy consumption of AI/ML processes.

REQ-SEC-AIML-26: The AI/ML inference service provider should support continuous monitoring of processing latencies of AI/ML processes.

REQ-SEC-AIML-27: Data augmentation for AI/ML Model training may be supported to enhance robustness of AI/ML Models to small perturbations in input features.

REQ-SEC-AIML-28: Explainable AI techniques applied to AI/ML Models may be supported to enhance detection of AI/ML Model anomalous behaviour.

REQ-SEC-AIML-29: AI/ML Model training service may support the embedding of a unique cryptographic watermark into the AI/ML model in training during the training phase.

REQ-SEC-AIML-30: An AI/ML model shall be digitally signed by the Solution Provider prior to onboarding.

REQ-SEC-AIML-31: An AI/ML training service shall support the signing of AI/ML models after training.

REQ-SEC-AIML-32: An AI/ML training, inference or storage host shall support the verification of the digital signature(s) of an AI/ML model.

REQ-SEC-AIML-33: The AI/ML training service producer may support training of AI/ML Models using distributed data and computation to mitigate information extraction and membership inference attacks.

# SBOM Guidelines for O-RAN

## SBOM Overview

This clause provides guidance for generation, delivery, and use of a software bill of materials (SBOM).

SBOM is a fundamental component of a mature Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) process. SBOM is an industry best practice part of secure software development that enhances the understanding of the upstream software supply chain so that vulnerability notifications and updates can be properly and safely handled across the installed customer base. The U.S. Department of Commerce (DoC) and the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) define SBOM as “a formal record containing the details and supply chain relationships of various components used in building software.” The DoC, in coordination with NTIA, published a report “The Minimum Elements for a Software Bill of Materials (SBOM)” [17] that provides guidance on the data fields, automation, and processes to be used by suppliers and customers. The SBOM documents proprietary and third-party software, including commercial and free and open-source software (FOSS), used in software products. The SBOM is maintained and used by the software supplier and stored and viewed by the network operator.

[Intentionally blank]

## SBOM Requirements for O-RAN

REQ-SBOM-001: The producer of O-RAN software shall create an SBOM for every O-RAN software package release.

REQ-SBOM-002: The minimum set of data fields shall include Supplier Name, Component Name, Version of the Component, Other Unique Identifiers as available, Dependency Relationship, Author of the SBOM data, and Timestamp [17].

REQ-SBOM-003: Vulnerabilities shall not be included as an additional data field because it would represent a static view from a specific point in time, while vulnerabilities are constantly evolving.

> NOTE 1: The SBOM should be used by vendors and operators to periodically check against known vulnerability databases to identify potential risk.
> NOTE 2: The level of risk for a vulnerability should be determined by the software vendor and operator with consideration of the software product, use case, and network environment.
> NOTE 3: The SBOM provides visibility into the use of open-source and third-party provided software having known vulnerabilities or contributions from individuals or companies in adversarial nations, but it does not protect against zero-day vulnerabilities that were unintentionally or maliciously inserted, exploited, or discovered and not reported.
REQ-SBOM-004: An SBOM shall contain all primary (top level) components, with top-level dependencies listed with enough detail to seek out the transitive dependencies recursively.

REQ-SBOM-005: Void

REQ-SBOM-006: Void

REQ-SBOM-007: SBOM shall be authenticity and integrity protected.

REQ-SBOM-008: Void

REQ-SBOM-009: Void

REQ-SBOM-010: Void

REQ-SBOM-011: The SBOM shall be provided in Software Package Data eXchange (SPDX) [17], CycloneDX [18], or Software Identification (SWID) [19] format.

> NOTE 5:	ISO/IEC 5962:2021[21] - Information technology — SPDX® Specification V2.2.1, published August 2021, specifies SPDX as a standard data format for communicating the component and metadata information associated with SBOM.
SEC-CTL-SBOM-001: The SBOM for an O-RAN software package shall use hashing and digital signing as defined in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [3], clause 5.

SEC-CTL-SBOM-002: Void


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG11.TS.STS-R004-v11.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG11.TS.STS-R004-v11.00"
---

## DUT / SUT

Figure 5-1 illustrates the O-RAN architecture elements, interfaces, and overall system.

As specified in [1], the following O-RAN architecture elements and interfaces shall be the DUT or SUT addressed in this security test specification.

O-RAN architecture elements:

- Network functions and applications
- Service Management and Orchestration (SMO)
- Non-RT RIC and rApps
- Near-RT RIC and xApps
- O-CU-CP/UP
- O-DU
- O-RU
- O-eNB
- Cloud computing platform
- O-Cloud comprising a collection of physical infrastructure nodes that meet O-RAN requirements to host the relevant O-RAN functions (such as Near-RT RIC, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, and O-DU), the supporting software components (such as Operating System, Virtual Machine Monitor, Container Runtime, etc.) and the appropriate management and orchestration functions.
Maintained interfaces by O-RAN:

- A1 Interface between Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC to enable policy-driven guidance of Near-RT RIC applications/functions, and support AI/ML workflow.
- O1 Interface connecting the SMO to the Near-RT RIC, one or more O-CU-CPs, one or more O-CU-UPs, and one or more O-DUs.
- O2 Interface between the SMO and the O-Cloud.
- E2 Interface connecting the Near-RT RIC and one or more O-CU-CPs, one or more O-CU-UPs, one or more O-DUs, and one or more O-eNBs.
- Open Fronthaul CUS-Plane Interface between O-RU and O-DU.
- Open Fronthaul M-Plane Interface between O-RU and O-DU as well as between O-RU and SMO.
During the test execution, only one DUT or SUT shall be tested at the same time. The rest of elements involved in the test setup should be simulated or real, according to the test preconditions, but only the DUT or SUT shall be considered under evaluation.

## Test Setup

Refer to the security test cases listed in the following clauses for their specific test setups.

## Test and measurement equipment and tools

The following table lists test and measurement equipment required for the security tests in the present document.

| Test tool | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Commercial UE and/or UE emulator | A commercial UE or UE emulator shall be used to establish stateful end-to-end connection and to generate or receive data traffic. The commercial UE used in this context as a test tool is typically a UE which is designed for commercial or testing applications with certain test and diagnostic functions enabled for test and measurements purposes. Such test and diagnostic functions should not affect the performance.  This commercial UE requires an (emulated) SIM card which is pre-provisioned with subscriber profiles. A UE emulator or multiple commercial UEs can be used in multi-UE test scenarios requiring multiple UEs sessions. The UE shall connect to the SUT either via RF cables or via an over the air (OTA) connection. In a lab environment, the UE shall be placed inside an RF shielded box/room to avoid interference from external signals. A logging tool connected to the UE shall be used to capture measurements and KPI logs for test validation and reporting. |
| 4G/5G Core or Core emulator | A 4G/5G core or core emulator shall be used to terminate 4G/5G NAS sessions, and to support core network procedures required for RAN (SUT) testing. 4G/5G core or core emulator shall support end-to-end connection and data transfer between Application server and commercial UE/UE emulator. |
| Application (traffic) server | An application (traffic) server shall be used as an endpoint for generation and/or termination of data traffic streams to/from commercial UE(s)/UE emulator. The application server shall be capable of generating data traffic for the services under test. |
| Network impairment emulator | A network impairment emulator shall be used for tests which require insertion of impairment (packet delay and/or jitter) at the network interface (e.g. OpenFH). |
| Packet generation tool / DoS emulator | A packet generation tool / Denial of Service (DoS) emulator shall be used for DoS traffic generation of security tests. The tool shall support crafting network traffic over the following network protocols: Ethernet, IP, UDP, TCP, PTP, eCPRI, TLS, HTTP/HTTPS. |
| High-volume packet generation/DDoS simulation tool | A high-volume packet generation / Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) simulation tool shall be used for high-volume DDoS traffic generation from multiple sources. The tool shall support crafting high-volume network traffic over the following network protocols: Ethernet, IP, UDP, TCP, PTP, eCPRI, TLS, HTTP/HTTPS. |
| Packet capture tool | A packet capture tool shall be used to capture samples of data traffic for validation, analysis, and troubleshooting. It may be used to capture samples of legitimate traffic, which then may be used as templates for fuzzing attacks. The tool shall support capturing network traffic over the following network protocols: Ethernet, IP, UDP, TCP, PTP, eCPRI, TLS, QUIC, HTTP/HTTPS. |
| Network tap | A network tap shall be a hardware or software device which provides access and visibility to the data flowing across a computer network. |
| Port scanner | A protocol scanner shall be used for probing network protocols and services. It shall be able to detect open ports. It shall be able to detect what service is exposed as active on the open port. Port scanners commonly come with built-in database of services. Service detection can use numerous built-in probes for querying various services. In practice, port scanners are often used for service detection. |
| Fuzzing tool | A protocol fuzzing tool shall be used for unexpected protocol input generation of security tests. The tool shall support mutating and replaying of captured network traffic over the following network protocols: Ethernet, IP, UDP, TCP, PTP, eCPRI, TLS, HTTP/HTTPS. |
| Vulnerability scanning tool | A vulnerability scanning tool shall be used for blind exploitation of well-known vulnerabilities during security tests. The tool may rely on cyclically updated database of known vulnerabilities based on Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) and should support scanning network services running on TCP/IP stack of protocols. |
| NFV benchmarking and resource exhaustion tool | A Network Function Virtualization (NFV) tool shall be used for O-Cloud system performance measurement and resource exhaustion type of DoS attack generation. This tool shall be capable of supporting any types of O-Cloud environment (public or private) with testing VNF(s) and/or CNF(s). |
| SSH audit tool | An SSH audit tool shall be used to verify the following properties: version of protocol, cipher suites, and known vulnerabilities in server and client SSH software. |
| TLS scanning tool | A TLS scanning tool shall be used to verify the following properties: version of protocol, cipher suites, and known vulnerabilities in server TLS software. |
| DTLS scanning tool | A DTLS scanning tool shall be used to verify the following properties: version of protocol, cipher suites, and known vulnerabilities in server DTLS software. |
| IKE scanning tool | An IKE scanning tool shall be used to verify the following properties: version of protocol, cipher suites, and known vulnerabilities in server IPsec software. |
| Software image signing tool | A Software image signing tool shall be used to digitally sign and verify the software image, e.g. xApps or O-RAN architecture element delivered by a software producer/provider. |

## Test report

Tests should be described in the test report with sufficient detail to allow the tests to be reproducible by different parties and to enable comparison. A template for a complete test report is found in Annex B and may be used. Photos and screenshots should also be taken as part of the test report to illustrate the test environment. Additional parameters are specified in the description of each test in the subsequent clauses.

## Assumptions

All threat IDs in the present document are referenced from O-RAN Security Threat Modeling and Risk Assessment [i.5].

## Testing tools

The tools outlined in this clause represent a selection of commonly used resources for testing processes. It is important to emphasize that this list is not exhaustive. Testers are encouraged to use additional tools as needed for comprehensive and effective testing, ensuring they meet the standards and requirements set forth in this test plan.

- Wireshark: Wireshark is a widely used open-source network protocol analyser that can capture and analyse network traffic. It allows for the inspection of packets to identify issues related to confidentiality, integrity, and replay. Additionally, it can be used to verify authentication mechanisms and analyse access control measures.
- tcpdump: tcpdump is a command-line packet analyser available on various operating systems. It captures network traffic and can save it to a file for later analysis. tcpdump offers powerful filtering capabilities to capture specific traffic based on criteria such as source/destination IP addresses, protocols, or ports.
- Netscout Sniffer: Netscout Sniffer is a commercial network analysis tool that offers real-time packet capture and analysis capabilities. It provides comprehensive visibility into network traffic and offers advanced features for troubleshooting and performance analysis.
- Colasoft Capsa: Colasoft Capsa is a network analyser designed for network monitoring and troubleshooting. It captures and analyses network traffic, providing insights into protocols, applications, and potential security issues. Capsa offers both real-time and post-capture analysis.
- Tcpreplay: Tcpreplay is an open-source tool used for replaying captured network traffic. It enables the replay of network packets from a previously captured pcap file, simulating real-world traffic scenarios. Although its primary purpose is not security testing, tcpreplay can be utilized as a tool in security testing efforts, particularly for testing the replay and handling of network packets.
- Scapy: Scapy is a powerful Python-based tool that can create, manipulate, and send custom network packets. It allows to generate and replay packets on an interface to test for replay vulnerabilities.
- Hping: Hping is a command-line tool that can send custom packets and perform various network-related activities. It can be used to generate replayed packets on an interface for testing purposes.
- Python: Python scripting language provides libraries (e.g., socket, scapy) that enables the creation of custom scripts to generate and replay packets on an interface.
- Bash scripting: Bash scripting can be utilized to automate the process of capturing packets and replaying them on an interface.
- GNS3: GNS3 is a network emulation tool that enables the simulation of complex network topologies. It can be used to create a virtual environment with RAN E1 interfaces, generate traffic, and simulate replay attacks for testing purposes.
- iperf3: iPerf3 is an open-source tool for network performance testing and measurement. While it is primarily focused on network performance evaluation, it can also be utilized as a tool to indirectly assess certain aspects of security, such as bandwidth availability and network congestion.
- Burp Suite: Burp Suite is a web application security testing tool that can intercept, modify, and replay network traffic. While it is primarily designed for web applications, it allows to test the integrity, confidentiality, and authenticity of data transmitted over an interface.
- Nessus: Nessus is a popular vulnerability assessment tool that can scan an interface for known security vulnerabilities and misconfigurations. It can help identify potential weaknesses related to confidentiality, integrity, replay attacks, and access control.
- OpenVAS: OpenVAS (Open Vulnerability Assessment System) is an open-source vulnerability scanner that can perform security audits on security protocols implementations. It can detect vulnerabilities, misconfigurations, and compliance issues, helping ensure that an interface adheres to security best practices and standards.
- SIEM tools like Splunk or ELK (Elasticsearch, Logstash, Kibana) can help collect and analyse security events and logs related to the O-RAN architecture elements and interfaces. They can assist in identifying potential security incidents, monitoring access control, and detecting anomalies.
- OpenSwan is an open-source implementation of the IPsec (Internet Protocol Security) protocols suite. It provides tools and libraries for setting up and managing IPsec connections, which can be used to test the confidentiality, integrity, replay, authenticity, and access control of an interface. Here's how OpenSwan can be used for testing:
- Confidentiality and Integrity:
- Replay Attack:
- Authenticity:
- Access Control:
- StrongSwan: An open-source IPsec-based VPN solution that includes testing capabilities. It enables the configuration and simulation of IPsec connections, testing of authentication methods, and performance of security checks.
- Hashing Tools: Hashing tools such as sha256sum, can be used to calculate hash values of transmitted data. By comparing the computed hash values at the source and destination, the integrity of the data can be verified.
Cryptographic Libraries: Cryptographic libraries, such as Bouncy Castle, provide APIs and tools for implementing and testing integrity protection mechanisms. These libraries offer functions to generate integrity checks (e.g., MAC) and validate the integrity of received data.

# Security Protocol & APIs Validation

## Overview

This clause contains test cases to validate implementation of security protocols against O-RAN security requirements in [2] and [5].

## SSH Server & Client

Requirement Name: Network Security Protocol - SSH

Requirement Reference: Clause 4.1, O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [2]

Requirement Description: Robust protocol implementation with adequately strong cipher suites is being required for SSH

Threat References: T-O-RAN-05

DUT/s: SMO, O-DU, O-RU

Test Name: TC_SSH_Server_and_Client_Protocol

Purpose: To verify implementation of the secure communication protocol SSH as specified in [2].

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- Tool: SSH audit tool with capabilities as defined in clause 5.3
- Testing of server configuration (DUT in the role of server): Network access to SSH server
- Testing of client configuration (DUT in the role of client): Access to configuration of SSH client
Execution steps

Testing of server configuration (DUT in the role of server):

- Run SSH audit tool in server audit mode against target SSH server.
- Compare the tool’s output with the list of approved SSH protocol versions and algorithms (for key agreement, symmetric encryption, key exchange, and MACs) as defined by clause 4.1, O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [2].
Testing of client configuration (DUT in the role of client):

- Run SSH audit tool on target SSH client in client audit mode.
- Compare the tool’s output with the list of approved SSH protocol versions and algorithms (for key agreement, symmetric encryption, key exchange, and MACs) as defined by clause 4.1, O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [2].
Expected results

- All detected SSH protocol versions are allowed by [2], clause 4.1.
- All detected SSH algorithms (for key agreement, symmetric encryption, key exchange, and MACs) are allowed by [2], clause 4.1.
Expected format of evidence: Report files produced by SSH audit tool and/or screenshots

## TLS

### TLS Support

Requirement Name: Network Security Protocol - TLS

Requirement Reference: Clause 4.2, O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [2]

Requirement Description: Support TLS/mTLS with protocol profiles

Threat References: T-O-RAN-05

DUT/s: SMO, Non-RT RIC and rApps, Near-RT RIC and xApps, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU, O-RU, O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_TLS_Protocol

Purpose: To verify implementation of the secure communication protocol TLS as specified in [2], clause 4.2.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- Tool: TLS scanning tool with capabilities as defined in clause 5.3 with certificate(s) installed
- DUT equipped with CA certificate that is a trust anchor for the certificate(s)
- Network access to DUT with TLS or mTLS enabled
Execution steps

- Run TLS scanning tool against DUT for detection of:
- TLS version
- Cipher suites
- Elliptic curves
- Certificate type
- Diffie-Hellman groups
- Compression methods
- Compare the test result/report with the list of approved TLS versions and profiles as defined by O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [2], clause 4.2.
- Run TLS scanning tool with mTLS 1.2 and valid certificate against DUT with mutual authentication enabled to verify the establishment of the TLS session after successful authentication.
- Run TLS scanning tool with mTLS 1.2 and invalid certificate (including but not limited to expired certificate, missing field certificate, untrusted CA signed certificate, …) against DUT with mutual authentication enabled to verify the failed attempt of the TLS session establishment due to certificate validation.
- Run TLS scanning tool with mTLS 1.3 and valid certificate against DUT with mutual authentication enabled to verify the establishment of the TLS session after successful authentication.
- Run TLS scanning tool with mTLS 1.3 and invalid certificate (including but not limited to expired certificate, missing field certificate, untrusted CA signed certificate, …) against DUT with mutual authentication enabled to verify the failed attempt of the TLS session establishment due to certificate validation.
Expected results

- All supported TLS protocol versions are explicitly allowed by [2], clause 4.2.
- All detected TLS cipher suites, elliptic curves, Diffie-Hellman groups and compression methods are explicitly allowed by [2], clause 4.2.
- Mutual authentication support works with certificates.
Expected format of evidence: Report files produced by TLS scanning tool and/or screenshots

### TLS Version Negotiation

Requirement Name: Network Security Protocol – TLS Version Negotiation

Requirement Reference: Clause 4.2, O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [2]

Requirement Description: Negotiate TLS versions 1.2 and 1.3

Threat References: T-O-RAN-05

DUT/s: SMO, Non-RT RIC and rApps, Near-RT RIC and xApps, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU, O-RU, O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_TLS_Version

Purpose: To verify implementation of the secure communication protocol TLS as specified in [2], clause 4.2, is able to successfully negotiate the TLS version.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- Tool: TLS scanning tool with capabilities as defined in clause 5.3 with certificate(s) installed
- DUT equipped with CA certificate that is a trust anchor for the certificate(s)
- Network access to DUT with TLS or mTLS enabled
Execution steps

- Configure TLS scanning tool for only TLS 1.2
- Run TLS scanning tool with TLS/mTLS 1.2 and valid certificate against DUT to verify the establishment of the TLS session after successful authentication
- Configure TLS scanning tool for only TLS 1.3
- Run TLS scanning tool with TLS/mTLS 1.3 and valid certificate against DUT to verify the establishment of the TLS session after successful authentication
- Configure TLS scanning tool to support TLS 1.2 and TLS 1.3
> NOTE:	The "supported_versions" extension is used by the client to indicate which versions of TLS it supports and by the server to indicate which version it is using.  The extension contains a list of supported versions in preference order, with the most preferred version first, as specified in section 4.2.1 from RFC 8446 [18].
- Run the TLS scanning tool with TLS/mTLS 1.2 and TLS/mTLS 1.3 and valid certificate against DUT to verify establishment of TLS session after successful authentication
Expected results

- DUT is able to successfully negotiate TLS/mTLS 1.2.
- DUT is able to successfully negotiate TLS/mTLS 1.3.
Expected format of evidence: Report files produced by TLS scanning tool and/or screenshots.

### TLS Deprecated Versions

Requirement Name: Network Security Protocol – Deprecated TLS Versions

Requirement Reference: Clause 4.2, O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [2]

Requirement Description: Reject TLS versions 1.0 and 1.1.

Threat References: T-O-RAN-05

DUT/s: SMO, Non-RT RIC and rApps, Near-RT RIC and xApps, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU, O-RU, O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_TLS_DeprecatedVersions

Purpose: To verify implementation of the secure communication protocol TLS as specified in [2], clause 4.2, does not establish a TLS session with TLS 1.0 or 1.1, or SSL 2.0 or 3.0.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- Tool: TLS scanning tool with capabilities as defined in clause 5.3 with certificate(s) installed
- DUT equipped with CA certificate that is a trust anchor for the certificate(s)
- Network access to DUT with TLS or mTLS enabled
Execution steps

- Configure TLS scanning tool to support only TLS 1.0
- Run the TLS scanning with TLS 1.0 and valid certificate against the DUT
- Configure TLS scanning tool to support only TLS 1.1
- Run the TLS scanning with TLS 1.1 and valid certificate against the DUT
- Configure TLS scanning tool to support only SSL 2.0
- Run the TLS scanning with SSL 2.0 and valid certificate against the DUT
- Configure TLS scanning tool to support only SSL 3.0
- Run the TLS scanning with SSL 3.0 and valid certificate against the DUT
Expected results

- DUT rejects connection for TLS 1.0
- DUT rejects connection for TLS 1.1
- DUT rejects connection for SSL 2.0
- DUT rejects connection for SSL 3.0
Expected format of evidence: Report files produced by TLS scanning tool and/or screenshots

## DTLS

Requirement Name: Network Security Protocol - DTLS

Requirement Reference: Clause 4.4, O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [2]

Requirement Description: Support DTLS

Threat References: T-O-RAN-01

DUT/s: Near-RT RIC, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU

Test Name: TC_DTLS_Protocol

Purpose: To verify implementation of the secure communication protocol DTLS as specified in [2], clause 4.4.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- Tool: DTLS scanning tool with capabilities as defined in clause 5.3
- Network access to DUT
Execution steps

- Run DTLS scanning tool against DUT for detection of:
- DTLS version
- Cipher suites
- Elliptic curves
- Certificate type
- Diffie-Hellman groups
- Compression methods
- Compare the test result/report with the list of approved DTLS versions and profiles as defined by Security Protocols Specification [2], clause 4.4.
Expected results

- All supported DTLS protocol versions are explicitly allowed by [2], clause 4.4.
- All detected DTLS cipher suites, elliptic curves, Diffie-Hellman groups and compression methods are explicitly allowed by [2], clause 4.4.
Expected format of evidence: Report files produced by DTLS scanning tool and/or screenshots.

## IPsec

### IPsec security

Requirement Name: Network Security Protocol - IPsec

Requirement Reference: Clause 4.5, O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [2]

Requirement Description: Support IPsec tunnel mode with confidentiality, integrity, authentication, and replay protection.

Threat References: T-O-RAN-05

DUT/s: Near-RT RIC, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU

Test Name: TC_IPsec_Security

Purpose: To verify implementation of the secure communication protocol IPsec.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- Tool: IKE scanning tool with capabilities as defined in clause 5.3
- Network access to DUT
Execution steps

- Run IKE scanning tool against DUT for detection of:
- ESP Encryption Transforms
- ESP Authentication Transforms
- Diffie-Hellman groups
- Certificate type
- Pseudo-random function
- Compare the test result/report with the list of approved IPsec IKE versions, ESP Encryption Transforms, ESP Authentication Transforms, Diffie-Hellman groups and Pseudo-random function as defined by O-RAN Security Protocols Specification [2], clause 4.5.
Expected results

- All detected IPsec IKE versions are allowed by [2], clause 4.5.
- All detected ESP Encryption Transforms, ESP Authentication Transforms, Diffie-Hellman groups and Pseudo-random function are allowed by [2], clause 4.5. IKE version (v2) support with no older version(s) enabled.
- If certificates are used, their format is X.509v3.
Expected format of evidence:

- .pcap files capturing the IKE negotiations between the tool and the DUT.
- Report or output from the IKE scanning tool, specifically highlighting:
- Detected ESP Encryption Transforms.
- Detected ESP Authentication Transforms.
- Detected Diffie-Hellman groups.
- Detected Certificate type.
- Detected Pseudo-random function.
- Screenshots from the IKE scanning tool showing scan results, especially the supported IKE version detected.
- If certificates are used, a sample or screenshot verifying the X.509v3 format.

### IKE Header Flags Fuzzing

Requirement Name: Network Security Protocol - IPsec

Requirement Reference: Clause 4.5, O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [2]

Requirement Description: Support IPsec tunnel mode with confidentiality, integrity, authentication, and replay protection.

Threat References: T-O-RAN-01

DUT/s: Near-RT RIC, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU

Test Name: TC_IKE_HEADER_FLAGS_FUZZING

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to verify the robustness of the IKEv2 server when faced with malformed IKE headers. Flags within the IKE header are intended to provide specific instructions or information about the message. By fuzzing these flags, we can identify potential vulnerabilities or flaws in the server's processing logic.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- A controlled environment with an IKEv2 server and a test client.
- Packet capture tool (e.g., Wireshark) for monitoring the traffic.
- Fuzzing tool or script to generate malformed IKE header flags.
Execution steps

- Initiator flag: Flip this flag to see if the server can identify a message that isn’t from an initiator.
- Version flag: Introduce an unsupported version.
- Response flag: Send messages that have this flag inappropriately set.
- Combination of multiple flags: Mix flags to generate completely unexpected combinations.
Expected Results

- The IKEv2 server handles the malformed flags gracefully, either by rejecting the message or by ignoring the unexpected flag values.
- There is no crashes, hangs, or undefined behaviours.
Expected format of evidence

- Packet capture files (.pcap) showing the malformed flags sent and the server's responses.
- Server logs indicating the handling (or rejection) of the malformed messages.

### IKE Key Exchange Payload Fuzzing

Requirement Name: Network Security Protocol - IPsec

Requirement Reference: Clause 4.5, O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [2]

Requirement Description: Support IPsec tunnel mode with confidentiality, integrity, authentication, and replay protection.

Threat References: T-O-RAN-01

DUT/s: Near-RT RIC, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU

Test Name: TC_IKE_KEY_EXCHANGE_PAYLOAD_FUZZING

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to examine the IKEv2 server's ability to manage corrupted or unexpected data within the Key Exchange (KE) payload. The KE payload carries the Diffie-Hellman public value. If the server is unable to handle malformed KE payloads, it might be susceptible to attacks or crashes.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- A controlled environment with an IKEv2 server and a test client.
- Packet capture tool (e.g., Wireshark) for monitoring the traffic.
- Fuzzing tool or script capable of generating malformed KE payloads.
Execution steps

- Unexpected length: Prepare 10 distinct messages where the KE payload's declared length is longer or shorter than the actual payload.
- Corrupted data: Generate 10 messages introducing random bytes into the KE payload to see how the server handles non-standard values.
- Unsupported Diffie-Hellman groups: Create 5 messages attempting to initiate a key exchange using a DH group that is either deprecated or not supported by the server.
- Empty KE payload: Formulate 5 messages with an empty KE payload.
- Send the 10 "Unexpected Length" messages.
- Follow with the 10 "Corrupted Data" messages.
- Continue with the 5 "Unsupported Diffie-Hellman Groups" messages.
- Conclude with the 5 "Empty KE Payload" messages.
> NOTE:	Monitor the server's reactions closely. The server ideally handles errors gracefully, either ignoring them or responding with an appropriate error message, without any crashes or hangs.
Expected Results

- The IKEv2 server gracefully handles the malformed KE payloads, either by ignoring them, responding with an error, or requesting a valid KE payload.
- No crashes, hangs, or undefined behaviours occur.
Expected format of evidence

- Packet capture files (.pcap) highlighting the malformed KE payloads and the server's corresponding responses.
- Server logs detailing the handling (or rejection) of the malformed KE payloads.

### IKE Malformed Certificate Payload

Requirement Name: Network Security Protocol - IPsec

Requirement Reference: Clause 4.5, O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [2]

Requirement Description: Support IPsec tunnel mode with confidentiality, integrity, authentication, and replay protection.

Threat References: T-O-RAN-01

DUT/s: Near-RT RIC, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU

Test Name: TC_IKE_MALFORMED_CERTIFICATE_PAYLOAD

Purpose: This test aims to verify the IKEv2 server's capability to properly validate certificate payloads. Certificate payloads are essential in the IKEv2 authentication phase. A server vulnerable to malformed certificate payloads could be susceptible to impersonation or man-in-the-middle attacks.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- A controlled environment with an IKEv2 server and a test client.
- Packet capture tool (e.g., Wireshark) to monitor and capture traffic.
- A set of both valid and deliberately malformed certificates.
Execution steps

- Initiate an IKEv2 session using a valid certificate to ensure baseline functionality.
- Confirm successful authentication and session establishment.
- Use a previously valid certificate that has now expired.
- Attempt to initiate an IKEv2 session.
- Observe the server's rejection of this certificate.
- Modify a valid certificate's content slightly (e.g., change an attribute) without re-signing it. This will invalidate its signature.
- Attempt to initiate an IKEv2 session using this certificate.
- The server detects the invalid signature and rejects the connection.
- Generate a new certificate signed by a Certificate Authority (CA) that the IKEv2 server doesn't trust or recognize.
- Attempt to initiate a connection using this certificate.
- Observe the server rejecting the certificate due to the untrusted CA.
- Modify the subject or issuer fields of a certificate to contain irregular or unexpected values (e.g., overly long strings, special characters).
- Use this certificate to initiate an IKEv2 session.
- The server validates these fields, notices the irregularities, and potentially rejects the connection.
- Use a certificate that doesn't have "key encipherment" or "digital signature" as its key usage, which are typically needed for IKEv2 operations.
- Attempt to initiate a session.
- The server detects the inappropriate key usage and declines the connection.
Expected Results:

- For the valid certificate, the IKEv2 server authenticates successfully and establish a session.
- For all other scenarios, the IKEv2 server detects the certificate anomalies and rejects the connection attempts. Specific error messages or logs relating to certificate validation failure are generated.
Expected format of evidence:

- Packet capture files (.pcap) capturing the entire exchange, showing the certificate exchange and the server's response.
- Server logs detailing the acceptance or rejection of each certificate, with corresponding reasons or error messages for rejections.

## OAuth 2.0

### API Consumer

Requirement Name: Authorization based on OAuth 2.0

Requirement Reference: Clause 4.7, O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [2]

Requirement Description: O-RAN OAuth 2.0 based authorization including resource registration, access token request and service access request based on token verification process as defined in [2]

Threat References: T-O-RAN-05

DUT/s: SMO, Non-RT RIC and rApps, Near-RT RIC and xApps, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU, O-RU, O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_OAuth2.0_API_Consumer

Purpose: To verify implementation of the authorization for API consumer based on OAuth 2.0 as specified in [2]

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- DUT is acting as a OAuth2.0 API Consumer
- For Test case A:
- Certificates for OAuth2.0 authentication
- mTLS connection configured for all the components involved in the test case.
- DUT establishes a mTLS connection with Authorization Server and another mTLS connection with Resource Server.
- For Test case B:
- Client ID and client secret for OAuth2.0 authentication
- TLS connection configured for all the components involved in the test case.
- DUT establishes a TLS connection with Authorization Server and another TLS connection with Resource Server.
- Resource Server, may be real or simulated
- Authorization server – OAuth 2.0 Authorization Server (real or simulated)
- Resource server registered with the Authorization server for its supported API service(s)
- This process can be a manual or automatic process preceding with Resource server authentication
- API consumer with the role to have access to the resource to be requested
- Network access to Authorization Server, Resource Server and API consumer
Execution steps

Test case A :

Test case B:

Expected results

For Test case A:

The DUT establishes the mTLS connection with the Authorization Server and the Resource Server. The DUT obtains access to the requested resource onto the Resource Server.

For Test case B:

The DUT establishes the TLS connection with the Authorization Server and the Resource Server. The DUT obtains the access to the requested resource onto the Resource Server.

Expected format of evidence: Log files, traffic captures and/or screenshots.

### Resource Server

Requirement Name: Authorization based on OAuth 2.0

Requirement Reference: Clause 4.7, O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [2]

Requirement Description: O-RAN OAuth 2.0 based authorization including resource registration, access token request and service access request based on token verification process as defined in [2]

Threat References: T-O-RAN-05

DUT/s: SMO, Non-RT RIC and rApps, Near-RT RIC and xApps, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU, O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_OAuth2.0_Resource_Server

Purpose: To verify implementation of the authorization for Resource Server based on OAuth 2.0 as specified in [2]

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- DUT is acting as a OAuth 2.0 Resource Server
- For Test case A:
- Certificates for OAuth 2.0 authentication.
- mTLS connection configured for all the components involved in the test case.
- DUT establishes a mTLS connection with Authorization Server and another mTLS connection with the API consumer.
- For Test case B:
- Share client ID and client secrets for OAuth 2.0 authentication
- TLS connection configured for all the components involved in the test case.
- DUT establishes a TLS connection with Authorization Server and another TLS connection with the API Consumer.
- API Consumer may be real or simulated
- Authorization Server – OAuth 2.0 Authorization Server (real or emulated)
- Resource Server registered with the Authorization Server for its supported API service(s)
- This process can be a manual or automatic process preceding with Resource Server authentication
- API Consumer with the role to have access to the resource to be requested
- Network access to Authorization Server, Resource Server and API Consumer
Execution steps

Test case A:

Test case B:

Expected results

For Test case A: The DUT establishes the mTLS connection with the Authorization Server and with the API Consumer. The DUT sends the requested service to the API Consumer.

For Test case B: The DUT establishes the TLS connection with the Authorization Server and with the API Consumer. The DUT sends the requested resource to the API Consumer.

Expected format of evidence: Log files, traffic captures and/or screenshots.

## NACM

### NACM RBAC Configuration

Requirement Name: NACM security

Requirement Reference: REQ-NAC-FUN-1 to REQ-NAC-FUN-10, clause 5.2.2.3 in O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: NETCONF/NACM support

Threat References: T-O-RAN-03, T-O-RAN-05, T-O-RAN-06

DUT/s: Near-RT RIC, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU

Test Name: TC_NACM_RBAC_CONFIGURATION

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to verify the RBAC configuration for secure access control on the TLS-based NACM with NETCONF.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- The NACM and NETCONF services are properly configured and operational.
- The RBAC feature is supported and enabled in the NACM system.
- RBAC roles, access control rules, and denied resources or operations are properly defined.
Execution steps

- Check that RBAC roles are properly defined for access control.
- Review the RBAC role definitions.
- Validate that the defined roles match the intended access control requirements.
- Test the assignment of RBAC roles to users or user groups.
- Assign roles to users or user groups.
- Verify that the assigned roles are reflected in the configuration.
- Test access to resources or operations that are not permitted for a specific RBAC role.
- Identify a resource or operation that is denied for a specific role.
- Attempt to access the denied resource or operation with a user assigned to the role.
Expected Results

For step 1), Roles are defined with their associated permissions and restrictions.

For step 2), Roles are assigned to the appropriate users or user groups.

For step 3)-a, The denied resource or operation is listed for the specified role.

For step 3)-b, Access to the denied resource or operation is denied, and an appropriate error message is displayed.

Expected format of evidence

For step 1), Log file with the output of the show nacm rbac roles command, showing the defined roles and their associated permissions and restrictions. In case the logs do no show the required information, screenshots are used.

For step 2), Log file with the confirmation that the roles have been successfully assigned to the appropriate users or user groups, as reflected in the configuration. In case the logs do not show the required information, screenshots are used.

For step 3), Log file showing the appropriate error message indicating access denial when attempting to access a denied resource or operation with a user assigned to a specific role. In case the logs do not show the required information, screenshots are used.

### NACM Logging Monitoring

Requirement Name: NACM security

Requirement Reference: REQ-NAC-FUN-1 to REQ-NAC-FUN-10, clause 5.2.2.3, REQ-SEC-SLM-AAI-EVT-1 to REQ-SEC-SLM-AAI-EVT-10, clause 5.3.8.11.6 in O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: NETCONF/NACM support

Threat References: T-O-RAN-03, T-O-RAN-05, T-O-RAN-06

DUT/s: Near-RT RIC, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU

Test Name: TC_NACM_LOGGING_MONITORING

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to verify the logging and monitoring configuration for the TLS-based NACM with NETCONF.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- The NACM and NETCONF services are properly configured and operational.
- Logging and monitoring systems are in place, integrated and configured with the NACM system.
Execution steps

- Check that logging is properly configured to capture relevant security-related events.
- Review the logging configuration settings.
- Trigger security-related events (e.g., access violations, failed authentication attempts) and validate that the events are logged.
- Test the monitoring configuration to ensure that security-related events and performance metrics are monitored.
- Review the monitoring configuration settings.
- Trigger security-related events or exceed performance thresholds and verify that the monitoring system captures and reports these events or metrics.
- Test the ability to review audit logs for security-related events.
- Retrieve the audit logs.
- Review the audit logs to ensure that they contain the expected information and provide a detailed record of security-related activities.
Expected Results

For step 1), Logging is enabled with appropriate log levels, log destinations, and log retention policies.

For step 2), Monitoring is enabled with appropriate metrics, thresholds, and alerting mechanisms.

For step 3), Audit logs containing security-related events are available.

Expected format of evidence

Text file showing the confirmation that logging is enabled with the expected log levels, log destinations, and log retention policies. Additionally, evidence of captured security-related events in the logs. In case the logs do not show the required information, screenshots are used.

Text file showing the confirmation that monitoring is enabled with the configured metrics, thresholds, and alerting mechanisms. Evidence of captured security-related events or performance metrics exceeding thresholds. In case the logs do not show the required information, screenshots are used.

Audit logs containing the security-related events, demonstrating that they contain the expected information and provide a detailed record of security-related activities.

### Void

## 802.1X

Void

## X.509

### X.509 Certificate Structure Verification for TLS

Requirement Name: X.509 security

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-O1-1, clause 5.2.2.2, SEC-CTL-O2-1, clause 5.2.3.1, REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-O2dms-1 to REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-O2dms-3, clause 5.1.8.9.1.1, REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-O2ims-1 to REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-O2ims-3, clause 5.1.8.9.1.2, REQ-SEC-O-CLOUD-NotifAPI-1 to REQ-SEC-O-CLOUD-NotifAPI-2, clause 5.1.8.9.1.3, SEC-CTL-A1-1, SEC-CTL-A1-2, clause 5.2.1.2, SEC-CTL-R1-1, SEC-CTL-R1-2, clause 5.2.6.2, REQ-SEC-Y1-1 to REQ-SEC-Y1-3, clause 5.2.7.2, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5], clause 4.2.3 in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [2].

Requirement Description: To verify the X.509 certificate structure used by TLS components in all the ORAN systems.

Threat References: T-O-RAN-03, T-O-RAN-05, T-O-RAN-06

DUT/s: SMO, Non-RT RIC and rApps, Near-RT RIC and xApps, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU, O-RU, O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_X509_CERT_STRUCTURE_VERIFICATION

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to ensure that the X.509 certificate follows the correct structure and format for TLS. This test is applicable to X.509 certificates used in TLS modules in the O-RAN system.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions:

- End entity X.509 certificate in ASN.1 format.
- CA certificate that signed the end entity certificate is available to the test suite.
Execution steps

Following properties of the certificate are verified.

- Certificate Version field, Subject field, Issuer, Validity of certificate, Key Usage.
As defined in clause 4.2.3 in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [2], the following certificate fields are present.

- Validate the certificate's version field. The version number is set to v3.
- Verify the Subject field is present in the certificate. Verify that the Subject field conforms to the format defined in clause 4.2.3 in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [2].
- Verify the Validity field to ensure the "Not Before" date is earlier than the "Not After" date, indicating a valid time range for the certificate's use.
- Validate that the certificate’s signature field is based on the algorithm used by the CA to sign the certificate.
- Validate the presence of the Key Usage Extension. Verify that it conforms with the mandatory critical Key Usage extension as specified in the clause 4.2.3 in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [2].
- Validate that the certificate contains the cRLDistributionPoint extension.
- Validate that the certificate contains the subjectAltName extension and conforms to the requirements as specified in the clause 4.2.3 in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [2].
Expected Results

The certificate adheres to the X.509 standard structure as defined in clause 4.2.3 in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [2].

Expected format of evidence

Report containing the output of the different steps executed. In case the report does not show the required information, logs are used.

### X.509 Certificate Validity Period Verification

Requirement Name: X.509 security

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-O1-1, clause 5.2.2. 2, REQ-SEC-O2-1, clause 5.2.3.1, REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-O2dms-1 to REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-O2dms-3, clause 5.1.8.9.1.1, REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-O2ims-1 to REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-O2ims-3, clause 5.1.8.9.1.2, REQ-SEC-O-CLOUD-NotifAPI-1 to REQ-SEC-O-CLOUD-NotifAPI-2, clause 5.1.8.9.1.3, REQ-SEC-A1-1, REQ-SEC-A1-2, clause 5.2.1.1, REQ-SEC-E2-1, clause 5.2.4.1, REQ-SEC-R1-1, REQ-SEC-R1-2, clause 5.2.6.1, REQ-SEC-Y1-1 to REQ-SEC-Y1-3, clause 5.2.7.2, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: Correctness of X.509 certificate

Threat References: T-O-RAN-03, T-O-RAN-05, T-O-RAN-06

DUT/s: SMO, Non-RT RIC and rApps, Near-RT RIC and xApps, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU, O-RU, O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_X509_CERT_VALIDITY_PERIOD_VERIFICATION

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to ensure that the certificate's validity dates are accurate and within an acceptable range. This test is relevant for all X.509 certificates within the O-RAN system.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

Prepare certificates with different validity periods (valid, expired, not yet valid).

Execution steps

- Set up a valid certificate with appropriate "Not Before" and "Not After" dates.
- Verify that the certificate is accepted when used for its intended purpose.
- Set up a certificate with a past expiration date.
- Attempt to use the expired certificate for its intended purpose.
- Verify that the certificate is rejected due to expiration.
- Set up a certificate with a "Not Before" date in the future.
- Attempt to use the certificate before the valid start date.
- Verify that the certificate is rejected due to being not yet valid.
Expected Results

Valid certificates are accepted, while expired and not-yet-valid certificates are rejected.

Expected format of evidence

Report containing the output of the different steps executed. In case the report does not show the required information, logs are used.

### X.509 Certificate Key Usage Verification

Requirement Name: X.509 security

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-O1-1, clause 5.2.2. 2, REQ-SEC-O2-1, clause 5.2.3.1, REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-O2dms-1 to REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-O2dms-3, clause 5.1.8.9.1.1, REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-O2ims-1 to REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-O2ims-3, clause 5.1.8.9.1.2, REQ-SEC-O-CLOUD-NotifAPI-1 to REQ-SEC-O-CLOUD-NotifAPI-2, clause 5.1.8.9.1.3, REQ-SEC-A1-1, REQ-SEC-A1-2, clause 5.2.1.1, REQ-SEC-E2-1, clause 5.2.4.1, REQ-SEC-R1-1, REQ-SEC-R1-2, clause 5.2.6.1, REQ-SEC-Y1-1 to REQ-SEC-Y1-3, clause 5.2.7.2, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: Correctness of X.509 certificate

Threat References: T-O-RAN-03, T-O-RAN-05, T-O-RAN-06

DUT/s: SMO, Non-RT RIC and rApps, Near-RT RIC and xApps, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU, O-RU, O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_X509_CERT_KEY_USAGE_VERIFICATION

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to confirm that the certificate's key usage and extended key usage extensions are correctly defined.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

Prepare certificates with different key usage and extended key usage extensions.

Execution steps

- Set up a certificate with proper key usage and extended key usage extensions matching its intended purpose (e.g., server authentication).
- Attempt to use the certificate for its designated purpose.
- Verify that the certificate is accepted.
- Set up a certificate with incorrect or missing key usage or extended key usage extensions.
- Attempt to use the certificate for its intended purpose.
- Verify that the certificate is rejected.
Expected Results

Certificates with correct usage extensions are accepted, while those with incorrect or missing extensions are rejected.

Expected format of evidence

Report containing the output of the different steps executed. In case the report does not show the required information, logs are used.

### X.509 Certificate Chain Validation

Requirement Name: X.509 security

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-O1-1, clause 5.2.2. 2, REQ-SEC-O2-1, clause 5.2.3.1, REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-O2dms-1 to REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-O2dms-3, clause 5.1.8.9.1.1, REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-O2ims-1 to REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-O2ims-3, clause 5.1.8.9.1.2, REQ-SEC-O-CLOUD-NotifAPI-1 to REQ-SEC-O-CLOUD-NotifAPI-2, clause 5.1.8.9.1.3, REQ-SEC-A1-1, REQ-SEC-A1-2, clause 5.2.1.1, REQ-SEC-E2-1, clause 5.2.4.1, REQ-SEC-R1-1, REQ-SEC-R1-2, clause 5.2.6.1, REQ-SEC-Y1-1 to REQ-SEC-Y1-3, clause 5.2.7.2 in O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: Correctness of X.509 certificate chain

Threat References: T-O-RAN-03, T-O-RAN-05, T-O-RAN-06

DUT/s: SMO, Non-RT RIC and rApps, Near-RT RIC and xApps, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU, O-RU, O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_X509_CERT_CHAIN_VALIDATION

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to validate the certificate chain's integrity and trustworthiness. This test is applicable to scenarios where certificates are part of a chain (e.g., intermediate and root certificates).

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

Prepare a certificate chain with correct and incorrect configurations.

Execution steps

- Set up a valid certificate chain with correct order and valid signatures.
- Attempt to use the certificate chain for its intended purpose.
- Verify that the certificate chain is accepted.
- Set up a certificate chain with incorrect order.
- Attempt to use the certificate chain for its intended purpose.
- Verify that the certificate chain is rejected.
- Set up a certificate chain with certificates with invalid signatures.
- Attempt to use the certificate chain for its intended purpose.
- Verify that the certificate chain is rejected
- Set up certificate chain with incorrect order and certificates with invalid signatures.
- Attempt to used the certificate chain for its intended purpose.
- Verify that the certificate chain is rejected.
Expected Results

A valid certificate chain is accepted, while an invalid chain is rejected.

Expected format of evidence

Report containing the output of the different steps executed. In case the report does not show the required information, logs are used.

## eCPRI

### eCPRI Input Validation

Requirement Name: eCPRI security

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-TRAN-1, clause 5.3.4.1 in O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5].

Requirement Description: eCPRI protocol robustness – ability to handle unexpected inputs (not in-line with protocol specification) without functional compromise.

Threat References: T-FRHAUL-01, T-FRHAUL-02

DUT/s: O-RU, O-DU

Test Name: TC_eCPRI_INPUT_VALIDATION

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to ensure that the DUT properly validates and sanitizes input through the eCPRI interface to prevent common security vulnerabilities such as injection attacks.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- eCPRI interface is accessible.
- Input fields requiring validation are identified.
Execution steps

- Send requests through the eCPRI interface with valid and expected input values.
- Verify that the DUT processes the requests successfully and provides the expected responses.
- Generate requests through the eCPRI interface by systematically applying fuzzing techniques to introduce deliberately malicious input values containing potential security threats.
- Verify that the DUT detects and rejects the malicious input, responding with appropriate error messages or status codes.
Expected Results: The DUT validates and sanitizes input through the eCPRI interface to prevent security vulnerabilities related to improper input handling.

Expected format of evidence

- A log file documenting the requests sent to the DUT through the eCPRI interface, including valid and malicious inputs.
- Screenshots of the DUT responses through the eCPRI interface showing the handling of valid inputs and appropriate error messages for malicious inputs.

### eCPRI Error and Timeout Handling

Requirement Name: eCPRI security

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-TRAN-1, clause 5.3.4.1 in O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5].

Requirement Description: eCPRI protocol robustness - ability to handle unexpected inputs (not in-line with protocol specification) without functional compromise.

Threat References: T-FRHAUL-01, T-FRHAUL-02

DUT/s: O-RU, O-DU

Test Name: TC_eCPRI_ERROR_TIMEOUT_HANDLING

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to ensure that the DUT securely handles errors on the eCPRI interface, including malformed packets, unexpected messages, and timeout scenarios, without disclosing sensitive information or compromising DUT stability.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- eCPRI interface is accessible.
- Various error scenarios (malformed, unexpected, or delayed eCPRI packets) are identified.
Execution steps

- Transmit eCPRI packets with anomalies such as invalid headers, incorrect protocol versions, unsupported message types, or corrupted payloads.
- Introduce significant delays or slow down the network connection on the eCPRI interface.
Expected Results: The DUT handles errors securely, providing meaningful error messages without disclosing sensitive information and recovering seamlessly when the connection is restored.

Expected format of evidence

- Screenshots of the error messages or status codes received from the DUT through the eCPRI interface in response to triggered errors.
- A log file documenting the requests and responses during error scenarios.

### eCPRI Logging and Auditing

Requirement Name: eCPRI security

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-SLM-APP-EVT-1, clause 5.3.8.11.4 in O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5].

Requirement Description:

Threat References: T-FRHAUL-01, T-FRHAUL-02

DUT/s: O-RU, O-DU

Test Name: TC_eCPRI_LOGGING_AUDITING

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to validate that the DUT logs relevant security events and activities on the eCPRI interface and supports auditing capabilities.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- eCPRI interface is accessible.
- Logging and auditing mechanisms are enabled and configured.
Execution steps

- Total count of received messages (valid and erroneous) for user and control planes
- Messages received within the expected time window
- Early and late arrivals of messages
- Sequence ID errors for on-time messages
- Messages dropped due to protocol violations or corruption
- Timing and sequence errors in control plane messages
- Total outbound messages for user and control planes
- Messages discarded due to errors, resource constraints, or policy violations
- Identified duplicated packets.
Expected Results: The DUT generates accurate logs, recording security-related events and activities for auditing and forensic analysis.

Expected format of evidence

- The generated log files containing recorded security events and activities during the testing process.
- Screenshots of log entries highlighting relevant security events and timestamps.

## SCTP

### SCTP DoS Prevention Rate Limiting

Requirement Name: SCTP security

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-TRAN-1, clause 5.3.4.1 in O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: Ability to handle unexpected input

Threat References: T-E2-01, T-E2-02, T-E2-03

DUT/s: Near-RT RIC, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU

Test Name: TC_SCTP_ DOS_PREVENTION_RATE_LIMITING

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to verify that the SCTP protocol effectively handles DoS attacks and prevents resource exhaustion.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- Enable DoS prevention mechanisms.
- The rate limiting parameters, such as the maximum number of connections or allowed data transfer rate, are properly defined.
- Use SCTP library.
Execution steps

Expected Results

- The SCTP protocol detects the excessive usage and applies rate limiting measures to restrict or reject connections or data transfers that exceed the defined limits.
- The system handles the rate limiting effectively, ensuring that resources are not exhausted or overwhelmed.
Expected format of evidence

- Test logs showing successful handling of the DoS attack, such as connection limits or rejection messages.
- System performance metrics or logs indicating the proper handling of excessive connection requests.

### SCTP Input Validation

Requirement Name: SCTP security

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-TRAN-1, clause 5.3.4.1 in O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: Ability to handle unexpected input

Threat References: T-E2-01, T-E2-02, T-E2-03

DUT/s: Near-RT RIC, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU

Test Name: TC_SCTP_INPUT_VALIDATION

Purpose: To verify that the SCTP protocol performs proper input validation to prevent security vulnerabilities such as buffer overflows or injection attacks.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- The SCTP protocol is configured with input validation enabled.
- Use SCTP library.
Execution steps

Expected Results

- The SCTP protocol performs input validation and rejects or sanitizes the invalid or malicious input.
- The connection is not established, or the malicious data is handled safely.
Expected format of evidence

- Test logs showing the rejection or sanitization of invalid or malicious input.
- Output from the application indicating the successful validation and rejection of malicious data.

## Transactional APIs

### Transactional API Authentication – service producer role

Requirement Name: RESTful API protection

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-O-CLOUD-NotifAPI-1, REQ-SEC-O-CLOUD-NotifAPI-2, clause 5.1.8.9.1.3, REQ-SEC-API-1, REQ-SEC-API-2, REQ-SEC-API-3, REQ-SEC-API-4, REQ-SEC-API-5, REQ-SEC-API-6, REQ-SEC-API-8, REQ-SEC-API-9, REQ-SEC-API-10, REQ-SEC-API-13, REQ-SEC-API-15, clause 5.3.10.2 in O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: API robustness

Threat References: T-O-RAN-01, T-O-RAN-02, T-O-RAN-03, T-O-RAN-05, T-O-RAN-06

DUT/s: SMO, Non-RT RIC and rApps, Near-RT RIC and xApps, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU, O-RU, O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_REST_API_AUTHENTICATION

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to verify the authentication mechanism of an O-RAN NF supporting RESTful API, service producer role.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- An O-RAN NF supporting the RESTful API is provisioned and running.
- Access to the O-RAN NF management system or command-line interface.
Execution steps

- Authenticate using valid credentials or API tokens:
- Capture the authentication token from the response.
- Execute an authenticated request against a RESTful API present in an O-RAN NF acting as a service producer, using a signed token (e.g., get cell status).
- Verify that the request is successful and returns the expected response.
- Attempt to access the RESTful API present in an O-RAN NF acting as a service producer,  without providing valid authentication credentials:
- Verify that the request fails and returns an unauthorized response.
- Attempt to access the RESTful API present in an ORAN NF acting as service producer, using unsigned token (the “alg” field in header section of the JWT token should be set to “none" and empty string for signature value).
- Verify that the request fails and returns failure from API end point.
Expected Results

- Authentication using valid credentials or API tokens is successful.
- Authorized requests to O-RAN NF resources return the expected responses.
- Requests without valid authentication credentials are rejected with an unauthorized response.
- Requests with token which are not signed are rejected.
Expected format of evidence

- Screenshots or logs showing the successful authentication and authorized requests.
- Screenshots or logs showing the failed authentication attempts.

### Transactional API Authorization and Access Control

Requirement Name: RESTful API protection

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-O-CLOUD-NotifAPI-1, REQ-SEC-O-CLOUD-NotifAPI-2, clause 5.1.8.9.1.3, REQ-SEC-API-1, REQ-SEC-API-2, REQ-SEC-API-3, REQ-SEC-API-4, REQ-SEC-API-5, REQ-SEC-API-6, REQ-SEC-API-8, REQ-SEC-API-9, REQ-SEC-API-10, REQ-SEC-API-13, REQ-SEC-API-15, clause 5.3.10.2 in O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: API robustness

Threat References: T-O-RAN-01, T-O-RAN-02, T-O-RAN-03, T-O-RAN-05, T-O-RAN-06

DUT/s: SMO, Non-RT RIC and rApps, Near-RT RIC and xApps, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU, O-RU, O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_REST_AUTHORIZATION_ACCESS_CONTROL

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to ensure that the RESTful API enforces proper authorization and access control mechanisms.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- An O-RAN NF supporting the RESTful API is provisioned and running.
- Access to the O-RAN NF management system or command-line interface.
- User roles and permissions are defined and configured.
Execution steps

- Authenticate using credentials associated with a user assigned to a role with necessary permissions:
- Capture the authentication token from the response.
- Execute a request that requires the permissions granted by the user's role (e.g., update configuration).
- Verify that the request is successful and returns the expected response.
- Authenticate using credentials associated with a user not assigned to a role with necessary permissions:
- Capture the authentication token from the response.
- Execute a request that requires the permissions beyond the user's role (e.g., perform a restricted operation).
- Verify that the request fails and returns a forbidden response.
Expected Results

- Users with appropriate roles and permissions can perform authorized actions.
- Requests requiring specific permissions return the expected responses.
- Users without necessary roles or permissions are restricted from performing unauthorized actions.
- Requests requiring permissions beyond the user's role return a forbidden response.
Expected format of evidence

- Screenshots or logs showing the successful authorization and access control enforcement.
- Screenshots or logs showing the failed authorization attempts.

### Transactional API Input Validation and Sanitization

Requirement Name: RESTful API protection

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-API-12, REQ-SEC-API-13, REQ-SEC-API-15, clause 5.3.10.2 in O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: API robustness

Threat References: T-O-RAN-04

DUT/s: SMO, Non-RT RIC and rApps, Near-RT RIC and xApps, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU, O-RU, O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_REST_INPUT_VALIDATION_SANITIZATION

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to validate that the RESTful API properly validates and sanitizes input data to prevent common security vulnerabilities.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- An O-RAN NF supporting the RESTful API is provisioned and running.
- Access to the O-RAN NF management system or command-line interface.
Execution steps

- Construct a valid request with appropriate input data:
- Verify that the request is successful and returns the expected response.
- Construct a request with invalid input data:
- Verify that the request fails and returns an error response.
- Verify that log is generated for the input validation errors.
- Construct a request with invalid/not supported HTTP method:
- Verify that the request fails and returns an error response.
- Verify that log is generated indicating HTTP method is not supported.
Expected Results

- Requests with valid and appropriate input data are successfully processed.
- Responses from the O-RAN NF RESTful API are as expected.
- Requests with invalid input data are rejected and handled properly to prevent security vulnerabilities.
- Log generated for the invalid inputs after unsuccessful validation.
- Requests with invalid or unsupported HTTP methods are rejected.
- Log generated for the invalid HTTP method.
Expected format of evidence

- Screenshots or logs showing the successful input validation and sanitization.
- Screenshots and logs showing failed input validation or sanitization attempts.

### Transactional API Security Logging and Monitoring

Requirement Name: RESTful API protection

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-O-CLOUD-NotifAPI-1, REQ-SEC-O-CLOUD-NotifAPI-2, clause 5.1.8.9.1.3, REQ-SEC-API-1, REQ-SEC-API-2, REQ-SEC-API-3, REQ-SEC-API-4, REQ-SEC-API-5, REQ-SEC-API-6, REQ-SEC-API-8, REQ-SEC-API-9, REQ-SEC-API-10, REQ-SEC-API-13, REQ-SEC-API-15, clause 5.3.10.2 in O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: API robustness

Threat References: T-O-RAN-01, T-O-RAN-02, T-O-RAN-03, T-O-RAN-05, T-O-RAN-06

DUT/s: SMO, Non-RT RIC and rApps, Near-RT RIC and xApps, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU, O-RU, O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_REST_SECURITY_LOGGING_MONITORING

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to verify that the O-RAN NF logs and monitors API activities for security and compliance purposes.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- An O-RAN NF supporting the RESTful API is provisioned and running.
- Access to the O-RAN NF management system or command-line interface.
Execution steps

- Enable API logging and monitoring for the O-RAN NF.
- Generate a series of API requests and actions.
- Review the logs or monitoring system for the recorded activities.
- Attempt unauthorized API actions or exploit security vulnerabilities.
- Verify that the logs or monitoring system captures and raises alerts for these activities.
Expected Results

- API activities are logged and monitored by the O-RAN NF.
- Logs or monitoring system records the expected API requests and actions.
- Unauthorized or malicious API actions trigger alerts in the logs or monitoring system.
- Logs or monitoring system captures and records failed security attempts.
Expected format of evidence

Logs from the O-RAN NF management system showing the successful or failed API logging and monitoring settings. In case the logs do not show the required information, screenshots are used.

## MACsec

Requirement Name: MACsec Cipher Suite Support Validation

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-OFHMECC-5, SEC-CTL-OFHWMM-2, SEC-CTL-OFHLMM-3, clause 5.2.5.6 in O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: Open FH elements supporting MACsec—whether in EDE-CC WAN, or LAN mode—implement the cipher suites specified in clause 4.9 of the O-RAN Security Protocols Specification [2]

> NOTE 1:	This test case is conditionally applicable only if MACsec is supported by the DUT.
> NOTE 2:	The cipher suite GCM-AES-128 is mandatory according to IEEE 802.1AE-2018 [32]. Other cipher suites, such as GCM-AES-256, are optional. If an optional cipher suite is supported by the DUT, this test case applies for each supported cipher.
Threat References: T-O-RAN-08

DUT/s: O-RU, O-DU

Test Name: TC_MACsec_Cipher_Suite_Support

Purpose: To verify that the DUT supports and correctly negotiates the required MACsec cipher suite(s) in all supported MACsec modes: EDE-CC, WAN and LAN.

Procedure and Execution Steps

Preconditions

- The DUT supports MACsec (IEEE 802.1AE) and operates in one of the following modes: EDE-CC, WAN, or LAN.
- The test setup includes a MACsec-capable test tool.
- The cipher suite under test, at minimum GCM-AES-128, is supported by both the DUT and the test tool.
Execution steps

For each MACsec mode supported by the DUT (EDE-CC, WAN, LAN):

- Configure the DUT to operate in the target MACsec mode.
- Initiate MACsec handshake using a supported key agreement protocol.
- For each supported cipher suite (starting with GCM-AES-128):
- Negotiate a specific cipher suite.
- Transmit traffic over the MACsec-secured interface.
- Verify that the secure channel is established using the selected cipher.
Expected Results

For each tested MACsec mode and cipher suite:

- The DUT successfully negotiates the selected cipher suite.
- MACsec encryption is correctly applied.
Expected Format of Evidence: Logs from the testing tool for each tested mode and cipher suite, showing the accepted cipher suite, and confirming that no captured packets are in plaintext.

# Common Network Security Tests for O-RAN architecture elements

This clause contains a set of security evaluations that are performed from outside and inside of the network function in a network capacity. It is used to measure the external exposure and risk(s) of the function in place and leverages common techniques used in cyber security to evaluate the risk(s) device under test faces or has.

The objects in scope of these network-based security tests are SMO, Non-RT RIC and rApps, Near-RT RIC and xApps, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU, O-RU and O-Cloud.

## Network Protocol and Service Enumeration

Requirement Name: Network protocol and service enumeration

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-NET-1, clause 5.3.3.1, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: Protocols and services are documented by vendor. No undocumented protocols and services are offered.

Threat References: T-O-RAN-01, T-O-RAN-02

DUT/s: SMO, Non-RT RIC and rApps, Near-RT RIC and xApps, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU, O-RU, O-Cloud

Test name: TC_Network_Procotol_And_Enumeration

Purpose: To verify that the list of active network protocols and services on DUT is in line with vendor-provided list of network protocols and services supported. Probing of network protocols and services on DUT provides the information whether the service is active or not. This test case probes all possible TCP and SCTP ports in range 0-65535 using port scanner for presence of the active services.

This test case probes all documented UDP ports from vendor-provided list using port scanner for presence of the active services. Optionally, additional UDP ports may be scanned as well.

> NOTE 1:	In practice, such probing is often referred to as network scanning or port scanning.
> NOTE 2:	In practice, services may also run on ports different from ports defined in [i.1].
Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- Port scanner with capabilities as defined in clause 5.3 of present document.
- Network access to DUT
- Vendor-provided list of network protocols and services supported by DUT
Execution steps

- Port scanner scans all TCP ports in range 0-65535 on the IP interface of DUT. TCP SYN/ACK response by DUT are interpreted as open port.
- Port scanner scans all SCTP ports in range 0-65535 on the IP interface of DUT. SCTP INIT-ACK response by DUT are interpreted as open port.
- All UDP ports documented in vendor-provided list are interpreted as open ports. Other UDP ports may be considered as open for the purpose of service detection.
> NOTE 3:	Due to the nature of UDP protocol, there is no simple method of open port detection similar to TCP/SCTP methods based on analysis of response message type (TCP: SYN/ACK, SCTP: INIT-ACK). In case of UDP, open port detection inevitably relies on service detection which is discussed in step 2 of this test procedure. In practice, port scans of entire UDP port range 0-65535 are impractical and time consuming. Typically, service detection is performed only for subset of UDP ports. UDP port subset selection is arbitrary and not standardized. Service detection in this test procedure is required for UDP ports from vendor-provided list and is optional for other UDP ports.
- If open port is listed in vendor-provided list, port scanner uses service probe from its built-in database that exactly matches service documented in vendor-provided list.
- If open port is not listed in vendor-provided list, port scanner uses service probe from its built-in database that exactly matches service defined in [i.1] for the that open port. If such service is not defined in [i.1], port scanner may report service as "unknown". Alternatively, port scanner may perform further service detection attempts based on other service probes from its built-in database.
> NOTE 4:	Service detection for open ports that are also listed in vendor-provided list requires only one probe. However, service information can be helpful in discussion with DUT vendor. This test procedure therefore accommodates optional service detection based on one probe or multiple probes.
Expected results

Comparison between the vendor-provided list of all supported network protocols and services and the list or active network protocols and services found by port scanner is performed.

All services found by port scanner are documented in vendor-provided list. This test case ends with success if:

- both lists match exactly
- list of network protocols and services found by port scanner has fewer items than vendor-provided list; all items found by port scanner exactly match items from vendor-provided list.
If any service is found by port scanner and it is not documented in vendor-provided list, this test case shall fail. It means that vendor-provided list is incorrect and undocumented attack surface exists.

Expected format of evidence: Result of probing the DUT is a list of active network protocols and services. Each item contains network protocol (TCP, UDP, SCTP), port number (from range 0-65535) and service name. If service type cannot be determined during probing, service name is "unknown".

Service name is in line with Service Name and Transport Protocol Port Number Registry defined by IANA [i.1] . If service name is not defined in [i.1], vendor provided service name is used.

## Password-Based Authentication

### Password guessing

Requirement Name: Password-Based Authentication

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-PASS-2, clause 5.5.7.2, REQ-SEC-PASS-1, clause 5.3.7.1, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: Password guessing protection mechanism is present on the DUT

Threat References: T-O-RAN-02, T-O-RAN-05, T-O-RAN-06

DUT/s: SMO, Non-RT RIC and rApps, Near-RT RIC and xApps, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU, O-RU, O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_Password_Guessing

Purpose: To verify that DUT has protection mechanism(s) implemented to prevent password guessing attacks against services using password-based authentication. . Simulation of password guessing attacks against services on DUT provides the information whether any protection mechanism is present.

This test case is run against all services on DUT that use password-based authentication. Vendor-provided list of all supported network protocols and services are used as a source.

> NOTE 1:	Vendor-provided list of all supported network protocols and services may not include the specific information about presence of password-based authentication as it is including network protocol, port and service name. In practice, only subset of services from vendor-provided list will use password-based authentication.
Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- Valid username for each tested service. This test case does not mandate any specific list of passwords to be used for testing.
- Network access to DUT
- Physical access to DUT (applicable if the DUT is in physical form)
- Vendor-provided list of network protocols and services supported by DUT
- Number of authentication attempts configured in account lock-out policy
Execution steps

- combination of valid username and invalid password (or various invalid passwords) are used for authentication repeatedly.
- after certain number of authentication attempts, protection mechanism of DUT are detected.
- minimum number of authentication attempts is the calculated as (number configured in the lock-out policy + 1) attempts.
Expected results

In context of each of the services using password-based authentication, protection mechanism(s) is present. Applicable to local services and to remotely accessible services.

> NOTE 2:	In practice, brute-forcing and dictionary attacks are the most common classes of password guessing attacks. Traditional approach to brute-forcing and dictionary attacks uses fixed username with various candidate passwords. Password spraying is another approach that can be combined with brute-forcing and dictionary attacks; fixed password is tested with various candidate usernames. Example of protection mechanism is enforcing delay before next authentication attempt(s) by the same client. This test case cannot list all possible techniques that protection mechanisms can use. However, following list provides overview of the most common approaches:
- Increase the delay after each unsuccessful authentication attempt.
- Implement challenge-response authentication (example of such measure: CAPTCHA)
- In order to prevent more attempts, impose temporary lock out on the client when threshold of consecutive failed authentication attempts is reached. During defined period of time all authentication attempts by locked-out client are rejected.
This test case fails if one or more services using password-based authentication have no protection mechanism present.

Expected format of evidence: Report file, log files and/or screenshots.

### Unauthorized Password Reset

Requirement Name: Password-Based Authentication

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-PASS-1, clause 5.3.7.1, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: Out-of-band password recovery mechanism absent or deactivated on DUT

Threat References: T-O-RAN-02, T-O-RAN-05, T-O-RAN-06

DUT/s: SMO, Non-RT RIC and rApps, Near-RT RIC and xApps, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU, O-RU, O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_Unauthorized_Password_Reset

Purpose: To verify that password reset mechanism DUT cannot be circumvented, disabled, or misused to gain access to DUT, its configuration, and data. Test covers services using password-based authentication and out-of-band mechanisms of password reset present in DUT in physical form.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- Network access to DUT
- Physical access to DUT (applicable if the DUT is in physical form)
- Vendor-provided list of network protocols and services supported by DUT
Execution steps

List of services using password-based authentication are determined by analysing the vendor-provided list as well as by analysing local services that are not remotely accessible.

Expected results

In context of each of the services using password-based authentication, no password change mechanism is present. Applicable to local services and to remotely accessible services.

This test case fails if one or more services using password-based authentication have password reset mechanism exposed.

This test case fails if DUT in physical form has hardware switch or switches that can be used to reset password without triggering factory reset of DUT.

Expected format of evidence: Report file, log files and/or screenshots.

### Password Policy Enforcement

Requirement Name: Password-Based Authentication

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-PASS-1, clause 5.3.7.1, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: Secure password policy is supported and enforced on the DUT

Threat References: T-O-RAN-02, T-O-RAN-03, T-O-RAN-05, T-O-RAN-06

DUT/s: SMO, Non-RT RIC and rApps, Near-RT RIC and xApps, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU, O-RU, O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_Password_Policy_Enforcement

Purpose: To verify that password policy applied for services using password-based authentication is effectively enforced by DUT.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- Set of valid username and valid password for each tested service
- Network access to DUT
- Physical access to DUT (applicable if the DUT is in physical form)
- Vendor-provided list of network protocols and services supported by DUT
- Password policy that is actually applied on the DUT
Execution steps

- combination of valid username and valid password are used to authenticate
- password change is performed using password that does not conform to applied password policy
Expected results

In context of each of the services using password-based authentication, applied password policy are effectively enforced and non-compliant passwords are rejected by DUT during password change. Applicable to local services and to remotely accessible services.

Expected format of evidence: Report file, log files and/or screenshots.

## Network Protocol Fuzzing

Fuzzing is an automated process of sending invalid or random inputs to a SUT to cause it to malfunction or crash.

Fuzzing is effective for finding vulnerabilities because while most modern programs have extensive input fields, the test coverage of these areas is relatively small. Even though this process can be a powerful capability to ensure robustness, it needs to be sufficiently defined and implemented throughout the system development lifecycle to be helpful and achieve the required results in a multi-vendor environment.

While traditional fuzzing techniques involve fuzzing piece(s) of software and generating inputs through command line or input files, fuzzing telecommunication network protocols tends to be different, requiring sending information via network ports. Furthermore, the complex nature of network protocols in the SUT resulting from how they are layered over each other adds to the challenges of fuzzing such SUTs.

The following are examples of the protocols that fuzzing will cover;

| General Transport Protocols |
| --- |
| SCTP |
| IP |
| TCP |
| UDP |
| SSH |
| HTTP |
| HTTP/2 |

and

| O-RAN Specific Protocols |
| --- |
| NETCONF |
| E1AP |
| E2AP |
| A1 |
| CTI |
| eCPRI |
| PTP |

It is anticipated that many O-RAN architecture elements utilize common software frameworks used for the lower-level general communication. In this case it should be evaluated if these General Transport Protocols are being tested in extensive Fuzzing tests in other activities and can therefore be considered to have lower risk profiles compared to the O-RAN Specific Protocols with less testing in the general industry.

Many of the O-RAN specific protocols are state- machine based protocols that can have multiple end points served at the same time, e.g. the protocol needs to be tested in scale to understand if possible memory leaks or other similar aspects is available that could lead to buffer overflows (opening up for possible code execution) or software crashes of the O-RAN specific software.

Fuzzing on the M-Plane protocol inside the Configuration of the O-RAN Fronthaul can be a possible significant area as this is combining multiple technologies from many domains into a single solution. In order for the Fuzzing to be time and resource efficient, it is important that this Fuzzing is protocol and state machine aware so that the Fuzzing can focus on the relevant aspects of the SUT representing the most significant risk exposure. Further effectiveness can be achieved if the Fuzzing capability is able to intelligently respond to the SUT behaviour. The Fuzzing tool should be able to both perform test with and without access to relevant credentials. Many possible vulnerabilities would be present on the inside of the authenticated session of the management protocols and would lead to escalation of privileges.

In order to identify the possible risk for memory leaks, Denial of Service (DoS) or other similar aspects a robust logging of the underlying platform (hardware and software), the virtualization or container platform and the O-RAN function, the logging needs to be detailed enough to evaluate the trends early but not intrusive to degrade the performance of the platform and lead to inaccurate results.

As general guidance, vendors and operators running fuzzing tests aim to document the list of all of the protocols of the SUTs reachable externally on an IP-based interface, together with indications of whether adequate available robustness and fuzz testing tools have been used against them. The tool's name, their unambiguous version (also for plug-ins if applicable), user settings, and the relevant output evidenced and should be documented. Additionally, any input causing unspecified, undocumented, or unexpected behaviour and a description of this behaviour should be highlighted in the testing documentation.

Since fuzzing test cases are not exhaustive and difficult to define and replicate, it's likely that test results even from testing the same set of protocols by different vendors may end up resulting in different outputs. So further effort and time needs to be invested in fuzzing activities until a satisfactory approach based on the vendor's or/and operators adopted risk-based model is satisfied.

## Denial of Service/Message Flooding

### Protocol, Application and Volumetric Based DDoS Attacks

Requirement Name: Robustness against DoS/Volumetric DDoS Attacks

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-DOS-1, clause 5.3.5.1, REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-6, REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-7, REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-8, REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-9, clause 5.1.3.1, REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-4, REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-5, REQ-SEC-NonRTRIC-6, clause 5.1.2.1, REQ-SEC-SMO-5, REQ-SEC-SMO-6, REQ-SEC-SMO-7, 5.1.1.1.1, REQ-SEC-SharedORU-7, clause 5.1.9.1, REQ-SEC-NFO-FOCOM-6, REQ-SEC-NFO-FOCOM-7, clause 5.1.1.1.5, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: An O-RAN architecture element with a network interface has ability to withstand network transport protocol based volumetric DoS/DDoS attacks without system crash and return to normal service level after the attack

Threat References: T-O-RAN-03, T-O-RAN-04, T-O-RAN-09, T-SMO-03

DUT/s: Architecture elements/applications implementing O-RAN interfaces defined in clause 5.1 of present document.

Test Name: TC_Robustness_DDoS

Purpose: To evaluate the resilience of the DUT against DoS/DDoS attacks and its recovery capabilities.

Each DUT interface is tested to validate its handling of large numbers of requests, similar to what is seen from denial of service (DoS) or/and distributed denial of service (DDoS) attempts. DoS/DDoS scenario can occur as a result of malicious attack or because of network/operator error. DoS/DDoS attacks can be in these forms: protocol layer attacks (e.g. SYN Floods, UDP Floods, TCP Floods), volume based attacks (e.g. ICMP floods, Smurf DDoS) and application layer attacks (e.g. GET/POST floods, low-and-slow attacks, attacks that target specific software/application with exposed network services or operating system network services).

Verify that the O-RAN Architecture element/Application:

- -	has a detailed technical description of the overload control mechanisms used to deal with overload scenarios.
- -	has a test report verifying the operation of the overload control mechanisms.
Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- A document that provides a detailed technical description of the overload control mechanisms.
- A test report from the test execution phase of overload control mechanism testing.
Execution steps

- Various overload scenarios that the DUT’s (or the O-RAN Architecture element/Application) are expected to handle. This includes for example:
- Traffic overload
- Resource overload
- Service overload
- Various overload control thresholds that the DUT uses to trigger overload control mechanisms. This includes for example:
- CPU usage limit
- Memory usage limit
- Request rate limit
- Description of the types of attacks that can cause overload conditions. This includes for example:
- Denial of Service (DoS)
- Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS)
- Resource Exhaustion
- A description of how the DUT’s security functions operate and perform corrective actions under excessive overload conditions. i.e. when the overload is significantly greater than the defined overload thresholds.
- Contain details of the test setup including the mechanisms for creating the overload scenarios that are consistent with the technical description document, where simulators and/or scripts are used to artificially create a load, then details of these should also be included.
- Describe test procedures used to verify the overload control mechanisms.
- Contain logs capturing all relevant events, which demonstrate/indicate that the detection of overload conditions and the triggering of overload control mechanisms described in the technical description document have been implemented.
Expected results

The technical description document and test report contain:

- An overview of the types of overload scenarios that are considered.
- An overview of the determined specific thresholds that triggered overload control mechanisms.
- A description of the types of attacks that cause overload conditions to the system and how these are handled.
- A description of how the DUT demonstrated the ability to discard excess requests gracefully while continuing to process valid request during overload situations.
- A description of how the DUT security functions remain operational and perform corrective actions under excessive overload situations. This includes system shutdowns, abatements and other corrective actions
> NOTE:	The vendor provides an explanation for any of the items listed above that they consider not applicable to their architecture element/application.
Expected format of evidence: Documentation showing each of the points in the results sections.

### Near-RT RIC A1 interface DoS/DDoS protection and recovery

Refer to test case 7.5.1 for the test verification

## Input validation and error handling

### O-CU input validation and error handling

Requirement Name: Input validation and error handling on data provided through E2 and O1 interfaces.

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-OCU-1, clause 5.1.4.1 in O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: O-CU performs input validation on data provided via E2 and O1 interfaces and rejects invalid or malicious inputs.

Threat References: T-O-RAN-05

DUT/s: O-CU

Test Name: TC_INPUT_VALIDATION_ERR_HANDL_OCU

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to verify that the O-CU performs proper input validation on provided data via E2 and O1 interfaces and rejects invalid or malicious inputs. It verifies that the O-CU correctly handles errors and responds appropriately.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions:

- The O-CU is powered on and operational.
- Test environment is set up with E2 and O1 interfaces configured.
- Input validation mechanisms are implemented on O-CU.
- Error handling mechanisms (e.g., error codes, error messages) are implemented by O-CU.
Execution steps:

- The tester provides invalid or malformed input data to the O-CU via E2 and O1 interfaces, violating the specified format or containing unexpected values.
- The tester captures and analyses the response from the E2 and O1 interfaces.
- The tester verifies that the O-CU detects the invalid input and rejects it appropriately, returning an error message or taking necessary actions to mitigate the impact.
- The tester provides malicious input data to the O-CU via E2 and O1 interfaces, aiming to exploit known vulnerabilities (e.g., CVE database, OWASP Top Ten, NIST National Vulnerability Database (NVD), vendor-specific vulnerability database) . If exploitation is successful, the tester performs unauthorized actions.
- The tester verifies that the O-CU identifies the malicious input and implements security measures to prevent exploitation, such as input sanitization, access controls, or anomaly detection.
- Provide input data at the boundaries of the allowed range or limits defined for specific inputs.
- Verify that the O-CU handles the boundary cases correctly, without encountering any unexpected behaviour or errors due to boundary conditions.
Expected Results:

For case 'malformed input data;, the O-CU properly validates incoming inputs from E2 and O1 interfaces and rejects those with invalid or malformed data, returning an appropriate error response and preventing any potential security risks or system failures.

For case 'malicious input data', the O-CU detects and mitigates the malicious input, preventing any potential security breaches or unauthorized operations.

For case 'boundary', the O-CU properly handles the boundary cases, ensuring that inputs at the limits are processed accurately without causing any system instability or vulnerabilities.

Expected format of evidence:

Logs detailing the invalid or malformed input data provided to the O-CU via E2 and O1 interfaces, alongside system logs capturing the O-CU's error messages or indications in response to the invalid input.

Logs documenting the malicious input data sent to the O-CU and the targeted vulnerabilities, complemented by system logs highlighting the O-CU 's detection and mitigation actions upon receiving the malicious input.

Logs of the boundary input data values provided to the O-CU, paired with system logs capturing the O-CU's messages or behaviours in response to the boundary inputs.

### O-DU input validation and error handling

Requirement Name: Input validation and error handling on data provided through E2, Open FH and O1 interfaces.

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-ODU-1, clause 5.1.5.1 in O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: O-DU performs input validation on data provided via E2, Open FH and O1 interfaces and rejects invalid or malicious inputs.

Threat References: T-O-RAN-05

DUT/s: O-DU

Test Name: TC_INPUT_VALIDATION_ERR_HANDL_ODU

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to verify that the O-DU performs proper input validation on provided data via E2, Open FH and O1 interfaces and rejects invalid or malicious inputs. It verifies that the O-DU correctly handles errors and responds appropriately.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions:

- The O-DU is powered on and operational.
- Test environment is set up with E2, Open FH and O1 interfaces configured.
- Input validation mechanisms are implemented on O-DU.
- Error handling mechanisms (e.g., error codes, error messages) are implemented by O-DU.
Execution steps:

- The tester provides invalid or malformed input data to the O-DU via E2, Open FH and O1 interfaces, violating the specified format or containing unexpected values.
- The tester captures and analyses the response from the E2, Open FH and O1 interfaces.
- The tester verifies that the O-DU detects the invalid input and rejects it appropriately, returning an error message or taking necessary actions to mitigate the impact.
- The tester provides malicious input data to the O-DU via E2, Open FH and O1 interfaces, aiming to exploit known vulnerabilities (e.g., CVE database, OWASP Top Ten, NIST National Vulnerability Database (NVD), vendor-specific vulnerability database). If exploitation is successful, the tester performs unauthorized actions.
- The tester verifies that the O-DU identifies the malicious input and implements security measures to prevent exploitation, such as input sanitization, access controls, or anomaly detection.
- Provide input data at the boundaries of the allowed range or limits defined for specific inputs.
- Verify that the O-DU handles the boundary cases correctly, without encountering any unexpected behaviour or errors due to boundary conditions.
Expected Results:

For case 'malformed input data', the O-DU properly validates incoming inputs form E2, Open FH and O1 interfaces and rejects those with invalid or malformed data, returning an appropriate error response and preventing any potential security risks or system failures.

For case 'malicious input data', the O-DU detects and mitigates the malicious input, preventing any potential security breaches or unauthorized operations.

For case 'boundary', the O-DU properly handles the boundary cases, ensuring that inputs at the limits are processed accurately without causing any system instability or vulnerabilities.

Expected format of evidence:

Logs detailing the invalid or malformed input data provided to the O-DU via E2, Open FH and O1 interfaces, alongside system logs capturing the O-DU's error messages or indications in response to the invalid input.

Logs documenting the malicious input data sent to the O-DU and the targeted vulnerabilities, complemented by system logs highlighting the O-DU's detection and mitigation actions upon receiving the malicious input.

Logs of the boundary input data values provided to the O-DU, paired with system logs capturing the O-DU's messages or behaviours in response to the boundary inputs.

### Near-RT RIC input validation and error handling

Requirement Name: Error handling by Near-RT RIC

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-7, REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-8, REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-9, clause 5.1.3.1 in O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: Near-RT RIC performs input validation on data provided via A1, E2 and Y1 interfaces and rejects invalid or malicious inputs.

Threat References: T-NEAR-RT-03, T-NEAR-RT-04

DUT/s: NEAR-RT RIC

Test Name: TC_INPUT_VALIDATION_ERR_HANDL_NEAR_RT_RIC

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to verify that the Near-RT RIC performs proper input validation on provided data via A1, E2 and Y1 interfaces and rejects invalid or malicious inputs. It verifies that the Near-RT RIC correctly handles errors and responds appropriately.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- Near-RT RIC is powered and operational.
- Test environment is set up with A1, E2 and Y1 interfaces configured.
- Input validation mechanisms are implemented on Near-RT RIC.
- Error handling mechanisms (e.g., error codes, error messages) are implemented by Near-RT RIC.
Execution steps:

- The tester provides invalid or malformed input data to the Near-RT RIC via A1, E2 and Y1 interfaces, violating the specified format or containing unexpected values.
- The tester captures and analyses the response from the A1, E2 and Y1 interfaces.
- The tester verifies that the Near-RT RIC detects the invalid input and rejects it appropriately, returning an error message or taking necessary actions to mitigate the impact.
- The tester provides malicious input data to the Near-RT RIC via A1, E2 and Y1 interfaces, aiming to exploit known vulnerabilities (e.g., CVE database, OWASP Top Ten, NIST National Vulnerability Database (NVD), vendor-specific vulnerability database). If exploitation is successful, the tester performs unauthorized actions.
- The tester verifies that the Near-RT RIC identifies the malicious input and implements security measures to prevent exploitation, such as input sanitization, access controls, or anomaly detection.
- Provide input data at the boundaries of the allowed range or limits defined for specific inputs.
- Verify that the Near-RT RIC handles the boundary cases correctly, without encountering any unexpected behaviour or errors due to boundary conditions.
Expected Results

For case 'malformed input data', the Near-RT RIC properly validates incoming inputs from A1, E2 and Y1 interfaces and rejects those with invalid or malformed data, returning an appropriate error response and preventing any potential security risks or system failures.

For case 'malicious input data', the Near-RT RIC detects and mitigates the malicious input, preventing any potential security breaches or unauthorized operations.

For case 'boundary', the Near-RT RIC properly handles the boundary cases, ensuring that inputs at the limits are processed accurately without causing any system instability or vulnerabilities.

Expected format of evidence:

Logs detailing the invalid or malformed input data provided to the Near-RT RIC via A1, E2 and Y1 interfaces, alongside system logs capturing the Near-RT RIC's error messages or indications in response to the invalid input.

Logs documenting the malicious input data sent to the Near-RT RIC and the targeted vulnerabilities, complemented by system logs highlighting the Near-RT RIC 's detection and mitigation actions upon receiving the malicious input.

Logs of the boundary input data values provided to the Near-RT RIC, paired with system logs capturing the Near-RT RIC 's messages or behaviours in response to the boundary inputs.

### Near-RT RIC input validation and error handling of data received from xApp

Requirement Name: Error handling by Near-RT RIC

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-18, clause 5.1.3.2.5 in O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: The Near-RT RIC shall verify data received through E2 related APIs initiated by xApp as follows: the data values are valid; the Near-RT RIC shall log security event(s) if any of the verification steps fail.

Threat References: T-NEAR-RT-03, T-NEAR-RT-04

DUT/s: NEAR-RT RIC

Test Name: TC_E2API_INPUT_VALIDATION_ERR_HANDL_NEAR_RT_RIC_XAPP

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to verify that the Near-RT RIC performs proper input validation on received data from xApp through E2 related APIs and rejects malformed inputs. It verifies that the Near-RT RIC correctly handles errors and responds appropriately.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions:

- Near-RT RIC is deployed.
- A testing software that supports communication with Near-RT RIC over E2 related APIs [27].
- Error handling mechanisms are implemented by Near-RT RIC.
Execution Steps:

- Provide malformed input data to the Near-RT RIC via E2 related APIs, violating the specified format.
- Capture and analyse the response from Near-RT RIC via E2 related APIs.
- Verify that the Near-RT RIC detects the malformed input and rejects it appropriately, returning an error message or taking necessary actions to mitigate the impact.
- Provide invalid (wrong value) data outside of the boundaries or limits of the acceptable values or ranges defined for specific parameters in clause 5.2.2 & 5.2.3, O-RAN E2 Interface Test Specification [29] for E2 related APIs.
- Provide valid data at the boundaries or inside the allowed ranges defined for specific parameters in clause 5.2.2 & 5.2.3, O-RAN E2 Interface Test Specification [29] for E2 related APIs.
- Verify that the Near-RT RIC handles these boundary cases correctly, without encountering any unexpected behaviour or errors due to boundary conditions.
Expected Results:

- The Near-RT RIC properly validates incoming inputs via E2 related APIs from xApp and rejects those with malformed data, returning an appropriate error response.
- The Near-RT RIC properly handles the valid and invalid boundary cases.
Expected format of evidence:

- Logs detailing the malformed input data provided to the Near-RT RIC via E2 related APIs, alongside system logs capturing the Near-RT RIC's error messages.
- Logs of the input data values provided to the Near-RT RIC, paired with system logs capturing the Near-RT RIC 's messages or behaviours in response to the boundary inputs.

## Secure configuration enforcement

Requirement Name: O-CU configuration security enforcement

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-OCU-1, clause 5.1.4.2, SEC-CTL-ODU-1, clause 5.1.5.2, ,REQ-SEC-ORU-1, clause 5.1.6.1 in O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5], 3GPP TS 33.501 clause 5.3.4 [25]

Requirement Description: The DUT ensures that settings and software configurations are protected from unauthorized modifications.

Threat Reference: T-O-RAN-02

DUT/s: O-CU, O-DU, O-RU

Test Name: TC_CONF_ENFORCEMENT

Purpose: Ensure the DUT prevents unauthorized settings and software configurations changes, as required by 3GPP TS 33.501 clause 5.3.4 [25].

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions:

- The DUT is powered on and operational.
- Settings and software configurations are defined and applied on the DUT.
- Successful access to the DUT is established.
Execution steps:

Expected results:

- DUT accepts authorized modifications.
- DUT detects and rejects any unauthorized modifications.
Expected format of evidence:

- Logs indicating the detection and acceptance of authorized modifications.
- Logs indicating the detection and rejection of unauthorized modifications.
- Security configuration: e.g., protocols and keys used for authentication, authorization, and secure communication.
- Software management: e.g., current software version
- Interface settings

## Logging and monitoring

### O-CU logging and monitoring

Requirement Name: O-CU logging and monitoring

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-OCU-1, clause 5.1.4.1 in O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description:

Threat References: T-O-RAN-07

DUT/s: O-CU

Test Name: TC_LOG_OCU

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to verify that the O-CU correctly logs and monitors security-related events effectively.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- The O-CU is powered on and operational.
- Logging and monitoring configurations are properly set up on the O-CU.
Execution steps

- The tester triggers an error or failure condition in the O-CU, such as connection attempts with invalid credentials, unauthorized access and a dropped connection.
- The tester verifies that the O-CU logs the error by capturing the relevant log entry.
- The tester monitors the key performance indicators (KPIs) of the O-CU, such as throughput, latency, or signal quality.
- The tester verifies that the monitoring system accurately collects and displays the KPI values in real-time.
- The tester introduces a simulated degradation or overload scenario on the O-CU, such as increasing network traffic or reducing available resources.
- The tester monitors the O-CU performance under the simulated scenario.
- The tester verifies that the monitoring system detects and raises alerts for the degraded performance or overload condition.
Expected Results

- O-CU logs and generates alerts for security-related events, providing necessary information and timestamps for incident investigation and analysis.
- The monitoring system provides accurate and real-time KPI values for the O-CU. The monitoring system detects and raises appropriate alerts for the degraded performance or overload condition.
Expected format of evidence:

- Capture and analyse the logged error in the O-CU logs or logging system and document the presence of the log entry.
- Document the monitored KPI values and the raised alerts, validate them against the expected values, and ensure they are triggered accurately in the monitoring system.

### O-DU logging and monitoring

Requirement Name: O-DU logging and monitoring

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-ODU-1, clause 5.1.5.1 in O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description:

Threat References: T-O-RAN-07

DUT/s: O-DU

Test Name: TC_LOG_ODU

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to ensure that the O-DU correctly logs and monitors security-related events effectively.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- The O-DU is powered on and operational.
- Logging and monitoring configurations are properly set up on the O-DU.
Execution steps

- The tester triggers an error or failure condition in the O-DU, such as connection attempts with invalid credentials, unauthorized access and a dropped connection.
- The tester verifies that the O-DU logs the error by capturing the relevant log entry.
- The tester monitors the key performance indicators (KPIs) of the O-DU, such as throughput, latency, or signal quality.
- The tester verifies that the monitoring system accurately collects and displays the KPI values in real-time.
- The tester introduces a simulated degradation or overload scenario on the O-DU, such as increasing network traffic or reducing available resources.
- Th tester monitors the O-DU performance under the simulated scenario.
- The tester verifies that the monitoring system detects and raises alerts for the degraded performance or overload condition.
Expected Results

- O-DU logs and generates alerts for security-related events, providing necessary information and timestamps for incident investigation and analysis.
- The monitoring system provides accurate and real-time KPI values for the O-DU. The monitoring system detects and raises appropriate alerts for the degraded performance or overload condition.
Expected format of evidence:

- Capture and analyse the logged error in the O-DU logs or logging system and document the presence of the log entry.
- Document the monitored KPI values and the raised alerts, validate them against the expected values, and ensure they are triggered accurately in the monitoring system.

### O-RU logging and monitoring

Requirement Name: O-RU logging and monitoring

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-ORU-1, REQ-SEC-ORU-2, clause 5.1.6.1 in O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description:

Threat References: T-O-RAN-07

DUT/s: O-RU

Test Name: TC_LOG_ORU

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to ensure that the O-RU correctly logs and monitors security-related events effectively.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- The O-RU is powered on and operational.
- Logging and monitoring configurations are properly set up on the O-RU.
Execution steps

- The tester triggers an error or failure condition in the O-RU, such as connection attempts with invalid credentials, unauthorized access and a dropped connection.
- The tester verifies that the O-RU logs the error by capturing the relevant log entry.
- The tester monitors the key performance indicators (KPIs) of the O-RU, such as throughput, latency, or signal quality.
- The tester verifies that the monitoring system accurately collects and displays the KPI values in real-time.
- The tester introduces a simulated degradation or overload scenario on the O-RU, such as increasing network traffic or reducing available resources.
- The tester monitors the O-RU performance under the simulated scenario.
- The tester verifies that the monitoring system detects and raises alerts for the degraded performance or overload condition.
Expected Results

- O-RU logs and generates alerts for security-related events, providing necessary information and timestamps for incident investigation and analysis.
- The monitoring system provides accurate and real-time KPI values for the O-RU. The monitoring system detects and raises appropriate alerts for the degraded performance or overload condition.
Expected format of evidence:

- Capture and analyse the logged error in the O-RU logs or logging system and document the presence of the log entry.
- Document the monitored KPI values and the raised alerts, validate them against the expected values, and ensure they are triggered accurately in the monitoring system.

### Near-RT RIC logging and monitoring

Requirement Name: Near-RT RIC logging and monitoring

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-4, clause 5.1.3.1 in O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description:

Threat References: T-O-RAN-07

DUT/s: NEAR-RT RIC

Test Name: TC_LOG_NEAR_RT_RIC

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to ensure that the Near-RT RIC correctly logs and monitors security-related events effectively.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- The Near-RT RIC is powered on and operational.
- Logging and monitoring configurations are properly set up on the Near-RT RIC.
Execution steps

- The tester triggers an error or failure condition in the Near-RT RIC, such as connection attempts with invalid credentials, unauthorized access, or a dropped connection.
- The tester verifies that the Near-RT RIC logs the error by capturing the relevant log entry.
- The tester monitors the key performance indicators (KPIs) of the Near-RT RIC, such as throughput, latency, or signal quality.
- The tester verifies that the monitoring system accurately collects and displays the KPI values in real-time.
- The tester introduces a simulated degradation or overload scenario on the Near-RT RIC, such as increasing network traffic or reducing available resources.
- Th tester monitors the Near-RT RIC performance under the simulated scenario.
- The tester verifies that the monitoring system detects and raises alerts for the degraded performance or overload condition.
Expected Results

- Near-RT RIC logs and generates alerts for security-related events, providing necessary information and timestamps for incident investigation and analysis.
- The monitoring system provides accurate and real-time KPI values for the Near-RT RIC. The monitoring system detects and raises appropriate alerts for degraded performance or overload conditions.
Expected format of evidence:

- Capture and analyse the logged error in the Near-RT RIC logs or logging system and document the presence of the log entry.
- Document the monitored KPI values and the raised alerts, validate them against the expected values, and ensure they are triggered accurately in the monitoring system.

# System security evaluation for O-RAN architecture elements

This clause contains security evaluations to be performed at the system level of an O-RAN architecture element, covering vulnerability scanning, data and information protection and system logging.

The objects in scope of these system security evaluation are SMO, Non-RT RIC and rApps, Near-RT RIC and xApps, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU, O-RU and O-Cloud.

## System Vulnerability Scanning

Requirement Name: Robustness of OS and Applications

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-SYS-1, clause 5.3.6.1, REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-1, clause 5.3.2.1.1, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: Operating System (OS) and applications vulnerability scan of DUT

Threat References: T-O-RAN-01

DUT/s: SMO, Non-RT RIC and rApps, Near-RT RIC and xApps, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU, O-RU, O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_Vulnerability_Scanning

Purpose: To verify the DUT does not contain known vulnerabilities in the OS and applications. Perform vulnerability scanning to ensure that there are no known vulnerabilities on DUT, both in the Operating System(OS) and the applications installed, that can be detected by means of automatic testing tools via the IP enabled network interfaces, or to identify the known vulnerabilities on DUT and have a clear mitigation plan for the ones of high severity.

Known vulnerabilities are considered those which are publicly disclosed, found by users or reported by security researchers. Those vulnerabilities are widely detected by commercial, or open-source tools designed for this purpose.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

DUT is the O-RAN architecture element with IP enabled network interfaces.

Execution steps

Expected results

The DUT is free from known vulnerabilities or there are security controls in place to mitigate the exploits associated with the vulnerabilities of high severity.

Expected format of evidence: Report files, log files and/or screenshots.

## Data and Information Protection

Void

## System logging

### Security log format and related log fields

Requirement Name: Security logs check for date, time and location field IP address.

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-SLM-FLD-1, SEC-CTL-SLM-FLD-2, clause 5.3.8.8.3, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: Support for security logs containing date, time and location field IP address.

Threat References: T-O-RAN-07

DUT/s: SMO, Non-RT RIC and rApps, Near-RT RIC and xApps, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU, O-RU, O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_Logs_Datetime_Fields_Validation

Purpose: To verify the log fields of security log data from DUT as per clause 5.3.8.8 of Security Requirements and Controls specifications [5]. The security log has the recommended date and time in ISO 8601 [10] format and mandatorily log the location field IP address (IP address of the host from which security events are generated).

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

DUT is any O-RAN architecture element that creates/generates security event logs.

Client is the test system equipped to communicate securely with O-RAN architecture element and able to perform security related operations on DUT.

Vendor documents operation(s) which generate security logs.

Execution steps

Execute one valid operation on the DUT which triggers/generates the security logs.

Expected results

- Date and time format as per ISO 8601 [10] as recommended by clause 5.3.8.8.3 of [5]
- Location field IP address (IP address of the DUT) as mandated by clause 5.3.8.8.3 of [5]
Expected format of evidence: Log files containing the output of the steps executed. In case the logs do not show the required information, report of a tool is used.

### Authenticated Time Stamping

Requirement Name: Authenticated Time-Stamping

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-SLM-ATS-1, SEC-CTL-SLM-ATS-2, SEC-CTL-SLM-ATS-3, clause 5.3.8.9.2.1, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: Optional support NTPv4

Threat References: T-O-RAN-07

DUT/s: SMO, Non-RT RIC and rApps, Near-RT RIC and xApps, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU, O-RU, O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_Logs_Authenticated_Time_Stamping

Purpose: To verify that the DUT fulfills the optional requirement of supporting Network Time Protocol (NTP) version 4 as specified by RFC 5905 [15] for authenticated time stamping in the client role only.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- The DUT is powered on and operational.
- The NTP server specified for testing is reachable and configured to support authenticated time stamping.
Execution steps

Verify NTP Client Version:

- Access the DUT configuration settings related to NTP.
- Confirm that the DUT specifies NTP version 4 as the selected protocol.
Authentication Setup

- Configure the DUT to use the necessary authentication methods and -credentials (AES-CMAC/RFC 4493 [17], certificates for Autokey/RFC 5906 [16]) required by RFC 5905 for authenticated time stamping.
- Provide valid authentication credentials (certificates) for NTP communication.
Time Synchronization

- Initiate an NTP time synchronization process from the DUT to the specified NTP server.
- Monitor the communication between the DUT and the NTP server to ensure that the NTP packets are properly constructed with the required authentication parameters.
- Verify that the DUT successfully receives the authenticated time stamps from the NTP server.
Time Accuracy Check

- After synchronization, record the DUT internal clock time.
- Obtain the time from the NTP server's authenticated time stamp.
- Calculate the time difference between the DUT internal clock time and the received authenticated time stamp.
- Ensure that the time difference is within an acceptable tolerance, considering network latency and authentication processing.
Expected results

The DUT fulfils the requirement of supporting Network Time Protocol (NTP) version 4 for authenticated time stamping, as specified by RFC 5905. The NTP communication successfully employs the configured authentication methods, and the time synchronization process ensures accurate timekeeping within the specified tolerance. An accuracy below 1 second should be measured to pass.

Expected format of evidence: Log files, traffic captures and/or screenshots.

### Network Security and System Security Events

Requirement Name: Network Security Events to be Logged and System Security Events to be Logged.

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-SLM-NET-EVT-1, clause 5.3.8.11.2, REQ-SEC-SLM-GEN-EVT-1, REQ-SEC-SLM-GEN-EVT-2, REQ-SEC-SLM-GEN-EVT-3, clause 5.3.8.11.3.1.1, REQ-SEC-SLM-HYP-EVT-1, REQ-SEC-SLM-HYP-EVT-2, REQ-SEC-SLM-HYP-EVT-3, clause 5.3.8.11.3.2, REQ-SEC-SLM-CON-EVT-1, REQ-SEC-SLM-CON-EVT-2, REQ-SEC-SLM-CON-EVT-3, clause 5.3.8.11.3.2, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: Logging of network and system security events in O-Cloud

Threat References: T-O-RAN-01, T-O-RAN-02, T-O-RAN-03, T-O-RAN-09, T-VM-C-01, T-VM-C-02, T-VM-C-03, T-VM-C-04, T-VM-C-05, T-VM-C-06, T-IMG-01, T-IMG-02, T-ADMIN-02

DUT/s: O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_Logs_Network_System_Security_Events

Purpose: The purpose of the test is to verify the logging of security events from O-Cloud as per the Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5].

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

A tester has access to testing equipment that can connect to the O-Cloud with administrative privileges to the operating system, hypervisor, and container engine.

Execution steps

Expected results

All the security logs produced by O-Cloud contain log messages that describe the actions taken in the execution steps.

- For execution step 2.a the log message indicates the creation of a new network configuration.
- For execution step 2.b the log message indicates the modification of an existing network configuration.
- For execution step 2.c the log message indicates the disabling of a port.
- For execution step 2.d the log message indicates the enabling a port.
- For execution step 2.e the log message indicates that packets have exceeded configured firewall limits.
- For execution step 2.f the log message indicates a network connection has been attempted along with details about that network connection including source and destination IP addresses.
- For execution step 2.g the log message indicates that a virtual machine was rebooted, and a subsequent log message indicates that a host operating system has been rebooted.
- For execution step 2.h the log message indicates that a virtual machine has been shut down and a subsequent log message indicates that the host operating system has been shut down.
- For execution step 2.i the log message indicates that a scheduled job was created within the host operating system, a subsequent log message indicates that a scheduled job was created in the hypervisor, and a subsequent log message indicates that a scheduled job was created in the container engine.
- For execution step 2.j the log message indicates that a configuration change was made to the host operating system and a subsequent log message indicates that a configuration change was made to the hypervisor.
- For execution step 2.k the log message indicates that a virtual disk was attached to a virtual machine, and a subsequent log message indicates that a virtual disk was detached from a virtual machine.
- For execution step 2.l the log message indicates that a virtual machine was created.
- For execution step 2.m the log message indicates that a virtual machine was started.
- For execution step 2.n the log message indicates that a virtual machine was stopped.
- For execution step 2.o the log message indicates that a virtual machine was deleted.
- For execution step 2.p the log message indicates that an image was added to the container repository.
- For execution step 2.q the log message indicates that an image was modified in the container repository.
- For execution steps 2.r the log message indicates that an image was removed from the container repository.
- For execution step 2.s the log message indicates a container was created.
- For execution step 2.t the log message indicates that a container was started.
- For execution step 2.u the log message indicates that a container was stopped.
- For execution step 2.v the log message indicated that a container was restarted.
- For execution step 2.w the log message indicates that a container was deleted.
- For execution step 2.x the log message indicates that a container volume was created.
- For execution step 2.y the log message indicates that a container volume was mounted.
- For execution step 2.z the log message indicates that a container volume was deleted.
Expected format of evidence: Generated Log Files from DUT/s.

### Application Security Events

Requirement Name: Application Security Events to be Logged.

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-SLM-APP-EVT-1, REQ-SEC-SLM-APP-EVT-2, clause 5.3.8.11.4, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: Support for the logging of security events in network functions

Threat References: T-OPENSRC-01, T-xAPP-01, T-xAPP-02, T-xAPP-03, T-xAPP-04, T-rAPP-01, T-rAPP-02, T-rAPP-03, T-rAPP-04, T-rAPP-05, T-rAPP-06, T-rAPP-07, T-PNF-01.

DUT/s: SMO, Non-RT RIC and rApps, Near-RT RIC and xApps, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU, O-RU, O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_Logs_Application_Security_Events

Purpose: The purpose of the test is to verify the logging of security event data from O-RAN Network.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

A tester has access to testing equipment that can connect to any O-RAN network function.

Execution steps

> NOTE:	Execution steps not applicable to the DUT may be skipped.
Expected results

All the security logs produced by O-RAN Network Functions contain log messages that pertain to the actions taken in the execution steps.

- For execution step 2 the log message contains an error message.
- For execution step 3 the log message contains a message indicating that a dynamic library loaded and details about that library.
Expected format of evidence: Generated Log Files from DUT/s.

### Data Access Security Events

Requirement Name: Data Access Security Events to be Logged.

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-1, REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-2, REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-3, REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-4, REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-5, REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-6, REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-7, REQ-SEC-SLM-DAT-EVT-8, clause 5.3.8.11.5, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: Logging of data access security events.

Threat References: T-VM-C-01, T-NEAR-RT-03, T-O-RAN-07, T-O-RAN-08, T-GEN-05

DUT/s: SMO, Non-RT RIC, Near-RT RIC, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU, O-RU, O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_Logs_Data_Access_Security_Events

Purpose: The purpose of the test is to verify the logging of data access security.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

A tester has access to testing equipment that can communicate securely with the DUT and is able to perform security and administrative related operations.

Execution steps

> NOTE:	Execution steps not applicable to the DUT may be skipped.
Expected results

All the security logs produced by O-RAN architecture elements contain log messages that document appropriately the actions taken in the execution steps.

- For execution step 2.a the log message indicates that a new file was added.
- For execution step 2.b the log message indicates an existing file was deleted.
- For execution step 2.c the log message indicates an unauthorized attempt to add a file.
- For execution step 2.d the log message indicates an unauthorized attempt to delete a file.
- For execution step 2.e the log message indicates an existing file was read.
- For execution step 2.f the log message indicates an existing file was written.
- For execution step 2.g the log message indicates an unauthorized attempt to read to a file.
- For execution step 2.h the log message indicates an unauthorized attempt to write to a file.
- For execution step 2.i the log message indicates a new directory was created.
- For execution step 2.j the log message indicates an existing directory was deleted.
- For execution step 2.k the log message indicates an unauthorized attempt to create a directory.
- For execution step 2.l the log message indicates an unauthorized attempt to delete a directory.
- For execution step 2.m the log message indicates data was added to a datastore or database.
- For execution step 2.n the log message indicates data was deleted from a datastore or database.
- For execution step 2.o the log message indicates an unauthorized attempt to add data to a datastore or database.
- For execution step 2.p the log message indicates an unauthorized attempt to delete data from a datastore or database.
- For execution step 2.q the log message indicates that data was read from a datastore or database.
- For execution step 2.r the log message indicates that data was written to a datastore or database.
- For execution step 2.s the log message indicates an unauthorized attempt to read data from a datastore or database.
- For execution step 2.t the log message indicates an unauthorized attempt to write data to a datastore or database.
- For execution step 2.u the log message indicates a permissions change to a file.
- For execution step 2.v the log message indicates a permissions change to a directory.
- For execution step 2.w the log message indicates a permissions change to a datastore or database.
Expected format of evidence: Generated Log Files from DUT.

### Account and Identity Security Events

Requirement Name: Account and Identity Security Events to be Logged.

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-SLM-AAI-EVT-1, REQ-SEC-SLM-AAI-EVT-2, REQ-SEC-SLM-AAI-EVT-3, REQ-SEC-SLM-AAI-EVT-4, REQ-SEC-SLM-AAI-EVT-5, REQ-SEC-SLM-AAI-EVT-6, REQ-SEC-SLM-AAI-EVT-7, REQ-SEC-SLM-AAI-EVT-9, REQ-SEC-SLM-AAI-EVT-10, clause 5.3.8.11.6, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: Logging of account and identity security events.

Threat References: T-GEN-02, T-O-RAN-02, T-O-RAN-06, T-O-RAN-07, T-ProtocolStack-02, T-SMO-02, T-SMO-05, T-SMO-08, T-SMO-25, T-SMO-30, T-NEAR-RT-03

DUT/s: SMO, Non-RT RIC and rApps, Near-RT RIC and xApps, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU, O-RU, O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_Logs_Account_and_Identity_Security_Events

Purpose: The purpose of the test is to verify the logging of account and identity access security.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

A tester will have access to testing equipment that can communicate securely with the DUT and is able to perform security and administrative related operations.

Execution steps

> NOTE:	Execution steps not applicable to the DUT may be skipped.
Expected results

All the security logs produced by O-RAN architecture elements contain log messages that document appropriately the actions taken in the execution steps.

- For execution step 2.a the log message indicates that an account was created.
- For execution step 2.b the log message indicates that an existing account was modified.
- For execution step 2.c the log message indicates that an existing account was deleted.
- For execution step 2.d the log message indicates an unauthorized attempt to create an account.
- For execution step 2.e the log message indicates a privilege level change of an existing account from a lower privilege to a higher privilege.
- For execution step 2.f the log message indicates an unauthorized attempt to change the privilege level of an existing account.
- For execution step 2.g the log message indicates that the group membership had changed for an existing account.
- For execution step 2.h the log message indicates an unauthorized attempt to change the group membership of an existing account.
- For execution step 2.i the log message indicates the use of a restricted function.
- For execution step 2.j the log message indicates an unauthorized attempt to use a restricted function.
- For execution step 2.k the log message indicates the successful authentication of an account.
- For execution step 2.l the log message indicates the unsuccessful attempt to authenticate an account.
- For execution step 2.m the log message indicates a privilege level change of an existing account from a higher privilege to a lower privilege.
- For execution step 2.n the log message indicates access with an account the does not require authentication.
- For execution step 2.o the log message indicates the end of a session.
Expected format of evidence: Generated Log Files from DUT.

### General Security Events

Requirement Name: General Security Events to be logged.

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-1, REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-2, REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-3, REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-4, REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-5, REQ-SEC-SLM-GSE-6, clause 5.3.8.11.7, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: Logging of general security events.

Threat References: T-ORAN-01, T-O-RAN-02, T-O-RAN-03, T-O-RAN-08, T-GEN-02, T-VM-C-01, T-VM-C-04, T-VM-C-06, T-IMG-01, T-IMG-04, T-VL-01, T-VL-02, T-xAPP-01, T-rAPP-03, T-HW-02

DUT/s: SMO, Non-RT RIC and rApps, Near-RT RIC and xApps, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU, O-RU, O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_General_Security_Events_Logged

Purpose: The purpose of the test is to verify the logging of general security events.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

A tester will have access to testing equipment that can communicate securely with the DUT and is able to perform security and administrative related operations.

Execution steps

> NOTE:	Execution steps not applicable to the DUT may be skipped.
Expected results

All the security logs produced by O-RAN architecture elements contain log messages that document appropriately the actions taken in the execution steps.

- For execution steps 2.a and 2.b the log message indicates the security software has been enabled or disabled.
- For execution step 2.c the log message indicates the use of administrative privileges.
- For execution step 2.d the log message indicates a change to the security configuration has occurred and the nature of the change.
- For executions 2.e through 2.k the log message is absent of any sensitive information related to the certificate or key.
- For execution 2.l the log message indicates that a security patch was submitted but not applied.
Expected format of evidence: Generated Log Files from DUT.

# Software security evaluation for O-RAN architecture elements

This clause contains a set of software security evaluations of an O-RAN architecture element, covering Software Lifecycle Management.

## Open-Source Software Component Analysis

Void

## Binary Static Analysis

Void

## Software Bill of Materials (SBOM)

### SBOM Signature

Requirement Name: A digital signature is provided for the SBOM.

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-SBOM-001, clause 6.3.2, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: SBOM is authenticity, integrity protected and provided in a standard format.

Threat References: T-O-RAN-09

DUT/s: SMO, Non-RT RIC and rApps, Near-RT RIC and xApps, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU, O-RU, O-Cloud

Test name: TC_SBOM_Signature

Purpose: To verify the SBOM is provided with a digital signature

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

SBOM is provided. Tools to verify the digital signature are available. Solution Provider key or certificate is provided.

Execution steps

Ensure the SBOM is provided with a digital signature in the format as described below. Verify SBOM digital signature is valid using the software provider’s public key or certificate. Depending on the format of the SBOM, there are various ways how to include and verify the digital signature of the SBOM. Below, the digital signature methods are detailed.

SPDX

YAML, RDF and tag data: The signature is in a separate file from the SPDX file. Digital signature format is CMS/PKCS#7/CAdES.

XML: XML Signature 2.0

JSON: JSON Web Signature (JWS), and JSON Signature Format (JSF).

CycloneDX

XML: XML Signature 2.0

JSON: JSON Web Signature (JWS), and JSON Signature Format (JSF).

SWID

XML: XML Signature 2.0

Expected results

Digital signature of the SBOM is valid.

Expected format of evidence: Report file, screenshot, or log file from tool used for verification of digital signature.

### SBOM Data Fields

Requirement Name: Data fields are according to NTIA guidance [13]

Requirement Reference: REQ-SBOM-002, REQ-SBOM-011, clause 6.3.1, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: A minimum set of data fields are included in the SBOM and it is in an standard format.

Threat References: T-O-RAN-09

DUT/s: SMO, Non-RT RIC and rApps, Near-RT RIC and xApps, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU, O-RU, O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_SBOM_Data_Fields

Purpose: To verify the minimum set of data fields are included in the SBOM

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

SBOM file is provided. Tools to verify the data fields are available.

Execution steps

Run the SBOM check tool and verify that there is minimum set of data fields present in SBOM depending on the SBOM format used.

| NTIA field | NTIA description | SPDX 2.2.1 field |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Supplier Name | The name of an entity that creates, defines, and identifies components | PackageSupplier |
| Component Name | Designation assigned to a unit of software defined by the original supplier | PackageName |
| Version of the Component | Identifier used by the supplier to specify a change in software from a previously identified version | PackageVersion |
| Other Unique Identifiers | Other identifiers that are used to identify a component, or serve as a look-up key for relevant databases | SPDXID (Package SPDX Identifier) |
| Dependency Relationship | Characterizing the relationship that an upstream component X is included in software Y | Relationship: CONTAINS |
| Author of SBOM Data | The name of the entity that creates the SBOM data for this component | Creator |
| Timestamp | Record of the date and time of the SBOM data assembly | Created |

| NTIA field | NTIA description | CycloneDX field |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Supplier Name | The name of an entity that creates, defines, and identifies components | publisher |
| Component Name | Designation assigned to a unit of software defined by the original supplier | name |
| Version of the Component | Identifier used by the supplier to specify a change in software from a previously identified version | version |
| Other Unique Identifiers | Other identifiers that are used to identify a component, or serve as a look-up key for relevant databases | bom/serialNumber and component/bom-ref |
| Dependency Relationship | Characterizing the relationship that an upstream component X is included in software Y | (Nested assembly/subassembly and/or dependency graphs) |
| Author of SBOM Data | The name of the entity that creates the SBOM data for this component | bom-descriptor:metadata/ manufacture/contact |
| Timestamp | Record of the date and time of the SBOM data assembly | timestamp |

| NTIA field | NTIA description | SWID tag |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Supplier Name | The name of an entity that creates, defines, and identifies components | <Entity> @role (softwareCreator/publisher), @name |
| Component Name | Designation assigned to a unit of software defined by the original supplier | <softwareIdentity> @name |
| Version of the Component | Identifier used by the supplier to specify a change in software from a previously identified version | <softwareIdentity> @version |
| Other Unique Identifiers | Other identifiers that are used to identify a component, or serve as a look-up key for relevant databases | <softwareIdentity> @tagID |
| Dependency Relationship | Characterizing the relationship that an upstream component X is included in software Y | <Link> @rel, @href |
| Author of SBOM Data | The name of the entity that creates the SBOM data for this component | <Entity> @role (tagCreator), @name |
| Timestamp | Record of the date and time of the SBOM data assembly | - |

This test is part of the O-RAN software producer’s Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC).

Expected results

Minimum set of data fields are present.

Expected format of evidence: Report file, screenshot, or log file from SBOM check tool.

### SBOM Format

Requirement Name: SBOM is provided in one of the accepted formats: SPDX, CycloneDX, or SWID.

Requirement Reference: REQ-SBOM-011, clause 6.3.1, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: SBOM is provided in a standard format.

Threat References: T-O-RAN-09

DUT/s: SMO, Non-RT RIC and rApps, Near-RT RIC and xApps, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU, O-RU, O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_SBOM_Format

Purpose: To verify that the SBOM is provided in one of standard formats.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

SBOM is provided. Tools to verify the SBOM are available.

Execution steps

Run the SBOM check tool to verify the SBOM format.

Expected results

SBOM format is SPDX, CycloneDX, or SWID.

Expected format of evidence: Report file.

### SBOM Depth

Requirement Name: SBOM Depth is in the required level.

Requirement Reference: REQ-SBOM-004, clause 6.3.1, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: The SBOM Depth is the required for the different types of software.

Threat References: T-O-RAN-09

DUT/s: SMO, Non-RT RIC and rApps, Near-RT RIC and xApps, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU, O-RU, O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_SBOM_Depth

Purpose: To verify that the SBOM depth is provided to the level specified.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

SBOM is provided. Tools to verify the SBOM are available.

Execution steps

Run the SBOM check tool to verify the SBOM depth provided.

At a minimum, all top-level dependencies are listed.

Expected results

SBOM depth is as specified in the requirements:

- top-level for every O-RAN software delivery
Expected format of evidence: Report file, log file from SBOM check tool.

### SBOM Version Verification

Requirement Name: The version in the SBOM is accurately and matches the actual O-RAN software package version.

Requirement Reference: REQ-SBOM-002, clause 6.3.1, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: Version of the software component included in the SBOM is matching the actual software component version.

Threat References: T-O-RAN-08, T-O-RAN-09

DUT/s: SMO, Non-RT RIC and rApps, Near-RT RIC and xApps, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU, O-RU, O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_SBOM_VERSION_VERIFICATION

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to ensure the SBOM reflects the current version of software package.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

SBOM is provided. Tools to verify the SBOM are available. Access to version information regarding O-RAN software package.

Execution steps:

Expected Results:

The version specified in the SBOM aligns with the actual version of the software component.

Expected format of evidence:

A report detailing:

- name of the software package component(s), SBOM indicated version, actual version, notes on any discrepancies or issues found.

### SBOM Presence

Requirement Name: SBOM provided with all O-RAN Software.

Requirement Reference: REQ-SBOM-001, clause 6.3.1, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: For every O-RAN software delivery, an SBOM is available.

Threat References: T-O-RAN-09

DUT/s: SMO, Non-RT RIC and rApps, Near-RT RIC and xApps, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU, O-RU, O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_SBOM_Presence

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to ensure that for every O-RAN software delivery an SBOM is available. This is applicable to all software components within the O-RAN system.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

SBOM is provided. Tools to verify the SBOM are available.

Execution steps

Expected Results

Every O-RAN software delivery has a genuine SBOM associated with it.

Expected Format of Evidence:

A report detailing:

- names of the software package components;
- status of its SBOM (Present/Absent);
- notes on any discrepancies or issues found.

### SBOM Vulnerabilities Field

Requirement Name: Vulnerabilities field omission in SBOMs.

Requirement Reference: REQ-SBOM-003, clause 6.3.1, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: Vulnerabilities are not included as an additional data field because it would represent a static view from a specific point in time, while vulnerabilities are constantly evolving. Therefore, the vulnerabilities field in SBOM for O-RAN software cannot be relied upon to determine the SBOM vulnerabilities by the Service provider. Service providers need to perform their own vulnerability assessment, at least at the moment of the SBOM release.

Threat References: T-O-RAN-09

DUT/s: SMO, Non-RT RIC and rApps, Near-RT RIC and xApps, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU, O-RU, O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_SBOM_Vulnerabilities_Fields

Purpose: Verify that vulnerabilities fields is not included as an additional field to the SBOM.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

SBOM is provided. Tools to verify the SBOM are available.

Execution steps

Verify that no vulnerabilities fields exist within the SBOM.

Expected Results

There are no vulnerabilities field(s) present in the SBOM.

Expected Format of Evidence: screenshot(s)

## Signature Verification

### Signature Verification Matrix per DUT and Phase

This clause defines the roles and responsibilities of each DUT in verifying digital signatures on signed objects.

The following table summarizes:

- the type of signed object each DUT tests,
- the phase where signature validation is expected (e.g., onboarding, deployment),
- and the DUT's corresponding responsibility in verifying digital signatures.
All positive and negative signature verification test cases (as defined in clause 9.5.2) apply accordingly based on this table.

| DUT | Signed object | Phase | Signature(s) to Verify |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| SMO | Application Packages (xApps/rApps images, O-RAN Architecture Element images, PNF images) Application artifacts O-Cloud software images AI/ML models  rApp images | Onboarding, Deployment, Instantiation | Verifies Service Provider (if present) and Solution Provider signatures |
| O-Cloud | O-RAN Architecture Element Images Application artifacts O-Cloud software images xApp images AI/ML models | Deployment, Instantiation | Verifies Service Provider (if present) and Solution Provider signatures |

> NOTE:	For all test cases defined in this clause, when both Service Provider and Solution Provider signatures are present on a signed object, the DUT performs signature verification in the following order: 1.	Service Provider signature, 2.	Solution Provider signature.
For each DUT, it is sufficient to perform the test case on one representative signed object type, since the signature verification mechanism is common across all object types listed for that DUT. The intent is to verify the implementation of the cryptographic validation logic, not to exhaustively test all signed object formats.

### Signature Verification Test Cases

Requirement Name: Signature verification of signed objects.

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-1, SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-1B, SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-9, clause 5.3.2.1.2, SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-SW-1, clause 5.1.8.3.2 in O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: Each signed object is verified for integrity and authenticity protection.

Threat References: T-IMG-01, T-IMG-04, T-AppLCM-01

DUT/s: SMO, O-Cloud

Test Case 1: Positive signature verification

Test Name: TC_Sig_Verification_Positive

Purpose: To verify that the DUT correctly validates the digital signature of the signed object, as per Table 9-4.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

Digitally signed object using a trusted certificate and approved algorithm as defined by the O-RAN Security Protocols Specification [2], clause 5, is available.

The DUT has access to the relevant trust anchors.

Execution steps

Expected results

Signature verification succeeds, and the signed object is accepted.

Expected Format of Evidence: logs showing successful signature verification.

Test Case 2: Hash Mismatch Signature Verification Failure

Test Name: TC_SIG_Validation_HashMismatch

Purpose: To verify that the DUT correctly detects and rejects a signed object whose hash does not match the signed hash.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- Valid digitally signed object
- Signed object content is modified after signing (introducing a hash mismatch)
- Trusted CA certificates are installed on the DUT
Execution steps

Expected Results

- Signature verification fails due to hash mismatch
- Signed object is rejected
Expected format of evidence: Logs indicating hash mismatch detection

Test Case 3: Non-Compliant Algorithm Signature Verification Failure

Test Name: TC_SIG_Validation_NonCompliantAlgorithm

Purpose: To verify that the DUT correctly rejects signed objects that are signed using cryptographic algorithms not listed in the accepted algorithm set defined by the O-RAN Security Protocols Specification [2], clause 5.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- A signed object is available that was signed using a cryptographic algorithm not listed in the Security Protocols Specification [2], clause 5.
- The DUT has access to the relevant trust anchors.
Execution steps

Expected Results

- Signature verification fails due to the use of a non-compliant algorithm not listed in the O-RAN Security Protocols Specification [2], clause 5.
- Signed object is rejected
Expected format of evidence: Logs showing failure of signature verification and indicating the non-compliant algorithm used.

Test Case 4: Certificate Public Key Mismatch Verification Failure

Test Name: TC_SIG_Validation_CertPublicKeyMismatch

Purpose: To verify that the DUT correctly detects and rejects a public/private key mismatch during signature verification.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- Signed object with a valid private key, but certificate used during validation contains an unrelated public key.
- The DUT has access to the relevant trust anchors.
Execution steps

Expected Results

- Signature verification fails due to public/private key mismatch
- Signed object is rejected
Expected format of evidence: Logs indicate public key mismatch error.

Test Case 5: Untrusted CA Signature Verification Failure

Test Name: TC_SIG_Validation_UntrustedCA

Purpose: To verify that the DUT correctly rejects signed objects using certificates from untrusted CAs.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- Signed object using a certificate from an untrusted CA
- The DUT has access to the relevant trust anchors.
Execution steps

Expected Results

- Signature verification fails due to untrusted CA
- Signed object is rejected
Expected format of evidence: Logs indicate untrusted CA.

Test Case 6: Expired Certificate Signature Verification Failure

Test Name: TC_SIG_Validation_ExpiredCert

Purpose: To verify that the DUT correctly detects and rejects signed objects using expired certificates.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- Signed object using a certificate whose validity period has expired.
- The DUT’s system time is configured to a date after the certificate’s expiration date.
- The DUT has access to the relevant trust anchors.
Execution steps

Expected Results

- Signature verification fails due to expired certificate
- Signed object is rejected
> NOTE:	If the DUT is configured, based on operator policy, to allow expired certificates during deployment or instantiation, the signature verification may succeed, and the signed object may be accepted in accordance with that policy.
Expected format of evidence: Logs indicate expired certificate error.

# ML security validation for O-RAN system

AI/ML technologies and models are adopted at the O-RAN system Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC to enable O-RAN use cases: traffic steering, massive MIMO optimization, radio resource allocation for UAV applications, position accuracy enhancement, beam management, and enhance CSI feedback. Other uses cases could be checked in document O-RAN Use Cases Detailed Specification [22].

## ML Data Poisoning

Void

# Security tests of O-RAN interfaces

## Open FH

This clause contains security tests to validate the security protection mechanism of the O-RAN Open Fronthaul interface.

### Open Fronthaul Point-to-Point LAN Segment

#### Authenticator Validation

Requirement Name: Authenticator function validation

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-OFHPLS-3, SEC-CTL-OFHPLS-5, REQ-SEC-OFHPLS-1, clause 5.2.5.5, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: Requirements of Authenticator in the Open Fronthaul network and its interface to an Authentication Server

Threat References: T-FRHAUL-02

DUT/s: O-DU

Test Name: TC_Authenticator_Validation

Purpose: To verify and validate the authenticator requirements of the network component to serve the request from supplicant(s) using EAP TLS authentication per 802.1X-2020 [11].

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

DUT supports authenticator role of the 802.1X for port-based network access control.

IP enabled network interface of DUT reachable to the authentication server and 802.1X enabled for its Open Fronthaul interface.

Set up an authentication server with root, server and client certificates, and the start the authentication server.

> NOTE:	RADIUS support is required over interface between an authenticator and authentication server in the security requirement specification, only RADIUS authentication server is called for in this security test environment setup. Diameter based authentication server could be used as an alternative.
Execution steps

Run the 802.1X test tool emulating the request(s) from the supplicant(s) towards the DUT, which is the authenticator and ensure the 802.1X authentication process runs to completion.

The following test scenarios are executed:

| Scenario ID | Configuration |
| --- | --- |
| 1 | Test tool (as supplicant) setting for 802.1X with EAPoL, correct Identity (Certificate DN) and Client Certificate (provisioned on the Radius server) |
| 2 | Test tool (as supplicant) setting for 802.1X with EAPoL, correct Identity (Certificate DN) and incorrect Client Certificate (not provisioned on the Radius server) |
| 3 | Test tool (as supplicant) setting for 802.1X with EAPoL and incorrect Identity (Certificate DN) |
| 4 | Test tool (as supplicant) setting for 802.1X with EAP non-TLS authentication |

Expected results

DUT successfully completes the procedure for the 802.1X Authentication validation (being granted or denied), for each test scenario:

| Scenario ID | Expected result | Reason |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | Connection established | Authentication successfully |
| 2 | Connection not established | Fail Authentication because the certificate is wrong |
| 3 | Connection not established | Fail Authentication because the Identity is wrong |
| 4 | Connection not established | Fail Authentication because the authentication type is wrong |

Expected format of evidence: Log files with traffic captures including the different scenarios executed in the execution steps and with a clear identification of successful and unsuccessful authentication

#### Supplicant Validation

Requirement Name: Supplicant function validation

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-OFHPLS-2, SEC-CTL-OFHPLS-5, REQ-SEC-OFHPLS-1, clause 5.2.5.5, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: Requirements of Supplicant in the Open Fronthaul network

Threat References: T-FRHAUL-02

DUT/s: O-RU, O-DU

Test Name: TC_Supplicant_Validation

Purpose: To verify the supplicant requirement of the network component for port connection request using EAP TLS authentication per 802.1X-2020 [11].

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

DUT supports supplicant role of the 802.1X for port-based network access control.

Set up an authentication server with root, server and client certificates, and start the authentication server.

Set up the 802.1X test tool host/device as the authenticator with EAP TLS authentication for 802.1X protocol and configure the preset authentication server.

> NOTE:	RADIUS support is required over interface between an authenticator and authentication server in the security requirement specification, only RADIUS authentication server is called for in this security test environment setup. Diameter based authentication server could be used as an alternative.
Execution steps

Start the test run as an emulated authenticator waiting for the supplicant request.

Configure and enable the DUT to start the port connection request as a supplicant towards the 802.1X test tool, which is the authenticator and verify the 802.1X authentication process runs to completion.

The following test scenarios are executed:

| Scenario ID | Configuration |
| --- | --- |
| 1 | DUT (as supplicant) setting for 802.1X with EAPoL, correct Identity (Certificate DN) and Client Certificate (provisioned on the Radius server) |
| 2 | DUT (as supplicant) setting for 802.1X with EAPoL, correct Identity (Certificate DN) and incorrect Client Certificate (un-provisioned on the Radius server) |
| 3 | DUT (as supplicant) setting for 802.1X with EAPoL and incorrect Identity (Certificate DN) |
| 4 | DUT (as supplicant) setting for 802.1X with EAP non-TLS authentication (optional) |

Expected results

DUT successfully completes the procedure for the supplicant validation (being granted or denied), for each test scenario:

| Scenario ID | Expected result | Reason |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | Connection established | Authentication successfully |
| 2 | Connection not established | Fail Authentication because the certificate is wrong |
| 3 | Connection not established | Fail Authentication because the Identity is wrong |
| 4 | Connection not established | Fail Authentication because the authentication type is wrong |

Expected format of evidence: Log files with traffic captures including the different scenarios executed in the execution steps and with a clear identification of successful and unsuccessful authentication.

#### Port-Based Access Enforcement Validation

Requirement Name: Port-Based Access Enforcement Validation

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-OFHPLS-4, clause 5.2.5.5.3, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: An authenticator in an Open Fronthaul network element that supports port-based network access control on each point-to-point LAN segment as defined in IEEE 802.1X-2020.

Threat References: T-FRHAUL-02

DUT/s: O-DU

Test Name: TC_Port_Access_Enforcement_Validation

Purpose: To verify that the DUT, when acting as an 802.1X authenticator, enforces port-based access control by allowing only EAPoL frames prior to authentication, and blocking all other Ethernet traffic—including frames carrying IP packets—until EAP-TLS authentication is successfully established.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- DUT supports the authenticator role of IEEE 802.1X.
- The DUT is configured with 802.1X enabled on its Open FH.
- The authentication server is set up and reachable (e.g., FreeRADIUS with appropriate certificates).
- The DUT is connected to a test tool or host representing a network device attempting to access the Open FH.
Execution steps

Expected results

Expected format of evidence: Packet capture logs showing that no Ethernet traffic is permitted before authentication, and that traffic flows after successful authentication.

#### O-RU Authentication Lifecycle with Manufacturer and Operator Certificates

Requirement Name: O-RU Authentication Lifecycle Validation

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-OFHPLS-11, SEC-CTL-OFHPLS-12, clause 5.2.5.5.3.2, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: The O-RU has a manufacturer installed X.509 Certificate. The procedure defined in IEEE 802.1X and shown in Figures 5.2.5.5.3.2-1/2 [5] is performed to authenticate and authorize a DUT within the Open FH.

Threat References: T-FRHAUL-01A

DUT/s: O-RU

Test Name: TC_ORU_Authentication_Lifecycle_Validation

Purpose: To verify that the O-RU implements the full 802.1X authentication lifecycle for secure onboarding and operational access, including:

- Presence and use of a manufacturer-installed X.509 certificate during initial EAP-TLS authentication.
- Placement into a provisioning VLAN following initial authentication as instructed by the authentication server to the authenticator.
- Enrolment into the operator’s PKI and installation of an operator-issued certificate.
- Re-authentication using the operator certificate and transition to operational VLAN.
Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- The DUT supports IEEE 802.1X in the supplicant role.
- The DUT has not yet been enrolled in the operator’s PKI.
- The DUT is equipped with a valid manufacturer-installed X.509 certificate, provisioned by a trusted manufacturer CA.
- The DUT supports a certificate enrolment mechanism to obtain an operator-issued X.509 certificate after initial authentication.
- The authentication server is reachable by the authenticator (EXAMPLE: O-DU or switch connected to the O-RU) and provisioned with trust anchors (CA certificates) for both the manufacturer and operator CAs. It is configured to:
- Accept the manufacturer certificate for initial onboarding and instruct the authenticator to assign a provisioning VLAN.
- Accept the operator certificate for operational access and instruct the authenticator to assign an operational VLAN.
Execution steps

- The DUT performs EAP-TLS using its manufacturer certificate.
- Upon successful authentication, the authentication server instructs the authenticator to assign a provisioning VLAN to the port connected to the DUT.
- The authenticator transitions the DUT's port to the authorized state and applies the provisioning VLAN.
- Within the provisioning VLAN, the DUT connects to the operator PKI.
- The DUT requests and installs an operator-issued X.509 certificate.
- The DUT restarts the supplicant interface.
- A second EAP-TLS exchange is initiated using the operator certificate.
- The authentication server validates the certificate and instructs the authenticator to assign the operational VLAN to the port connected to the DUT.
- The authenticator authorizes the port and applies the updated VLAN.
Expected results

- The DUT successfully authenticates using its manufacturer certificate and is given access to the provisioning VLAN.
- The DUT successfully enrols in the operator PKI.
- The DUT re-authenticates using the operator certificate and is given access to the operational VLAN.
Expected format of evidence:

- Packet captures showing two EAP-TLS authentication flows (manufacturer and operator certificates).
- Authentication server logs confirming identity and policy assignment for each certificate.
- DUT logs confirming success of certificate enrolment and the current certificate status.

### M-Plane

#### SSH-based M-Plane authentication, authorization and access control protection

##### Secure Password-Based Authentication and Authorization in Open FH M-Plane Using SSH

Requirement Name: M-Plane authenticity protection over Open FH interface using SSH

Requirement Reference: Clause 5.4.2 in O-RAN WG4 Management Plane Specification [21]

Requirement Description: Password based Authentication and Authorization for Open FH M-Plane over SSH across the Open FH interface.

Threat References: T-O-RAN-05, T-FRHAUL-01, T-FRHAUL-02, T-MPLANE-01

DUT/s: O-RU

Test Name: TC_OFH_MPLANE_SSH-PASSWORD-BASED_AUTHENTICATION_AUTHORIZATION

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to verify the SSH password-based authentication and authorization mechanisms on the Open FH interface by the O-RU.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- The O-RU is properly configured and operational.
- Test equipment (potentially an O-DU or a dedicated SSH client simulator) is configured to establish SSH connections to the O-RU
- NACM with NETCONF is enabled and configured for authorization on the O-RU Open FH interface.
- SSH is properly implemented and configured in the O-RU as defined in [2] clause 4.1.
Execution steps

- Test the successful SSH password-based authentication and authorization of the test equipment by the O-RU.
- Establish an SSH connection from the test equipment (acting as SSH client) to the O-RU (acting as SSH server) using the SSH password.
- Verify that the O-RU successfully authenticates the test equipment using the SSH password.
- Validate that the test equipment is authorized to perform the requested operations on the Open FH interface after successful authentication. This operation should be within the scope of permitted actions for the authenticated entity.
- Test the handling of failed SSH password-based authentication attempts of the test equipment by the O-RU in different scenarios.
- Attempt with incorrect password
- Attempt with non-existent username
Expected Results

For step 1): Expected results in clause 6.2

For step 2):

- The SSH connection is successfully established using the SSH password.
- The O-RU validates the test equipment's SSH password for authentication.
- The O-RU grants the necessary authorization for the requested operations.
For step 3):

- The SSH connection attempt fails due to the incorrect password.
- The O-RU identifies the authentication failure and denies access.
- The SSH connection attempt fails due to the invalid username.
- The O-RU identifies the authentication failure and prevents access.
Expected format of evidence

For step 1): Logs and screenshots showing adherence to SSH protocol specifications as defined in [2] clause 4.1.

For step 2): Logs showing successful SSH authentication and authorization events.

For step 3): Logs or error messages indicating failed SSH password-based authentication attempts for both incorrect password and invalid username scenarios.

##### Open FH M-Plane SSH-certificate-based authentication and authorization at O-RU

Requirement Name: M-Plane authenticity protection over Open FH interface using SSH

Requirement Reference: Clause 5.4.2 in O-RAN WG4 Management Plane Specification [21]

Requirement Description: Certificate based Authentication and Authorization for Open FH M-Plane over SSH across the Open FH interface at O-RU.

Threat References: T-O-RAN-05, T-FRHAUL-01, T-FRHAUL-02, T-MPLANE-01

DUT/s: O-RU

Test Name: TC_OFH_MPLANE_SSH-CERTIFICATE-BASED_AUTHENTICATION_AUTHORIZATION_O-RU

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to verify the SSH-certificate-based authentication and authorization mechanisms on the Open FH interface at O-RU, using test equipment to simulate O-DU.

Procedure and execution steps

> NOTE:	Test equipment simulates the role of O-DU for the purpose of this test.
Preconditions

- The O-RU is properly configured and operational.
- Test equipment capable of simulating SSH client functionality is prepared to represent the O-DU.
- SSH keys and certificates are generated and installed on both the O-RU and the test equipment.
- NACM with NETCONF is enabled and configured for authorization on the O-RU Open FH interface.
- SSH is properly implemented and configured in the O-RU as defined in [2] clause 4.1.
Execution steps

Execute the test on the SSH protocol as defined in clause 6.2.

Authentication and authorization of O-DU by O-RU (test equipment simulates O-DU)

- Positive Case: Successful SSH-certificate-based authentication and authorization.
- Establish an SSH connection from the O-DU to the O-RU using the SSH certificate.
- Verify that the O-RU successfully authenticates the O-DU using the SSH certificate.
- Validate that the O-DU is authorized to perform the requested operations on the Open FH interface.
- Negative Case: Failed SSH-certificate-based authentication.
- Test the handling of failed SSH-certificate-based authentication attempts by the O-RU in different scenarios.
Expected Results

For step 1): Expected results in clause 6.2

For Positive Case:

- The SSH connection is successfully established using the correct SSH certificate.
- The DUT (O-RU) validates the test equipment's SSH certificate for authentication.
- The O-RU grants the necessary authorization to the O-DU for the requested operations.
For Negative Case:

- The SSH connection attempt fails due to the incorrect or invalid SSH certificate.
- The DUT identifies the authentication failure and denies access accordingly.
Expected format of evidence

For step 1): Logs and screenshots showing adherence to SSH protocol specifications as defined in [2] clause 4.1.

For Positive Case: Logs showing successful SSH authentication and authorization events.

For Negative Case: Logs or error messages indicating failed SSH-certificate-based authentication attempts for both invalid certificate and non-existent username scenarios.

##### Open FH M-Plane SSH-certificate-based NACM Access Control

Requirement Name: M-Plane access control protection over Open FH interface using SSH

Requirement Reference: Clause 5.4.2 in O-RAN WG4 Management Plane Specification [21]

Requirement Description: Certificate based NACM Access control for Open FH M-Plane over SSH across the Open FH interface.

Threat References: T-O-RAN-05, T-FRHAUL-01, T-FRHAUL-02, T-MPLANE-01

DUT/s: O-RU

Test Name: TC_OFH_MPLANE_SSH-CERTIFICATE-BASED_NACM_ACCESS_CONTROL

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to verify the SSH-certificate-based NACM access control on the Open FH interface between O-RU and O-DU.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- NACM with NETCONF is enabled and configured for SSH-certificate-based authorization on the O-RU Open FH interface.
- Access control rules and permissions are defined and configured on the O-RU.
- SSH is properly implemented and configured in the O-RU as defined in [2] clause 4.1.
- Test equipment (potentially an O-DU or a dedicated SSH client simulator) is configured to establish SSH connections to the O-RU.
Execution steps

- Test the successful enforcement of SSH-certificate-based NACM policies on the Open FH interface.
- Establish an SSH connection using the SSH certificate.
- Perform an operation on the Open FH interface with the O-RU using the SSH connection.
- Verify that the O-RU grants or denies access based on the SSH-certificate-based NACM rules and permissions.
- Test the denial of access to unauthorized operations on the Open FH interface, including attempts with invalid credentials and invalid usernames.
- Attempt with invalid certificate
- Attempt with invalid username
Expected Results

For step 1): Expected results in clause 6.2

For step 2):

- The SSH connection is successfully established using the SSH certificate.
- The O-RU evaluates the SSH certificate-based NACM rules and permissions.
- The O-RU grants or denies access to the O-DU based on the SSH-certificate-based NACM configuration.
For step 3):

- Denial of SSH connection due to invalid certificate.
- Denial of SSH connection due to an invalid username.
Expected format of evidence

For step 1): Logs showing adherence to SSH protocol specifications as defined in [2] clause 4.1.

For step 2), Logs indicating both successful access and access denial based on SSH-certificate-based NACM. In case the logs do not show the required information, the screenshots are used.

For step 3), Logs with error messages indicating access denial for unauthorized operations for both invalid credentials (certificate) and invalid usernames. In case the logs do not show the required information, the screenshots are used.

##### Open FH M-Plane SSH-certificate-based authentication authorization at O-DU

Requirement Name: M-Plane authenticity protection over Open FH interface using SSH

Requirement Reference: Clause 5.4.2 in O-RAN WG4 Management Plane Specification [21]

Requirement Description: Certificate based Authentication and Authorization for Open FH M-Plane over SSH across the Open FH interface at O-DU.

Threat References: T-O-RAN-05, T-FRHAUL-01, T-FRHAUL-02, T-MPLANE-01

DUT/s: O-DU

Test Name: TC_OFH_MPLANE_SSH-CERTIFICATE-BASED_AUTHENTICATION_AUTHORIZATION_O-DU

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to verify the SSH-certificate-based authentication and authorization mechanisms on the Open FH interface at O-DU, using test equipment to simulate O-RU.

Procedure and execution steps

> NOTE:	Test equipment simulates the role of O-RU for the purpose of this test.
Preconditions

- The O-DU is properly configured and operational.
- Test equipment capable of simulating SSH server functionality is prepared to represent the O-RU.
- SSH keys and certificates are generated and installed on both the O-DU and the test equipment.
- NACM with NETCONF is enabled and configured for authorization on the Open FH interface.
- SSH is properly implemented and configured as defined in [2] clause 4.1.
Execution steps

Authentication of O-DU by O-RU (test equipment simulates O-RU)

- Establish an SSH connection from the O-DU to the O-RU using the SSH certificate.
- Verify that the O-RU successfully authenticates the O-DU using the SSH certificate.
- Test the handling of failed SSH-certificate-based authentication attempts by the O-DU in different scenarios.
- Attempt with invalid certificate (Invalid due to public – private key mismatch)
- Attempt with invalid username
Expected Results

For step 1): Expected results as in clause 6.2

For step 2): Positive Case:

- The SSH connection is successfully established using the correct SSH certificate.
For step 3): Negative Case:

- The SSH connection attempt fails due to the incorrect or invalid SSH certificate.
- The DUT is denied SSH connection due to authentication failure.
Expected format of evidence

For step 1): Logs and screenshots showing adherence to SSH protocol specifications as defined in [2] clause 4.1.

For step 2): Positive Case: Logs showing successful SSH authentication and authorization events.

For step 3): Negative Case: Logs or error messages indicating failed SSH-certificate-based authentication attempts for both invalid certificate and non-existent username scenarios.

#### SSH-based M-Plane integrity, confidentiality and replay protection

Requirement Name: M-Plane confidentiality, integrity and replay protection over Open FH M-Plane interface using SSH

Requirement Reference: Clause 5.4 in O-RAN WG4 Management Plane Specifications [21]

Requirement Description:

Threat References: T-O-RAN-05, T-FRHAUL-01, T-FRHAUL-02, T-MPLANE-01

DUT/s: O-RU, O-DU

Test Name: TC_OFH_MPLANE_SSH_CONFIDENTIALITY_INTEGRITY_REPLAY

Purpose: To verify the enforcement of security policies over the Open FH M-Plane interface, ensuring that sensitive data remains protected through confidentiality, integrity, and replay protection using SSH.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- The O-RU and O-DU devices are properly configured and operational.
- SSH keys and certificates are generated and installed on both the O-RU and O-DU devices.
- SSH configuration is enabled to enforce confidentiality, integrity and replay protection on the Open FH M-plane interface.
- SSH is properly implemented and configured as defined in [2] clause 4.1.
Execution steps

- Establish an SSH connection between the O-RU and O-DU using proper SSH keys and certificates.
- Transmit data over this connection.
- Capture and analyse the transmitted data to verify encryption, ensuring confidentiality.
- During the same SSH session, modify the transmitted packets midway.
- Attempt to deliver the modified packets to the DUT.
- Verify that the DUT detects and discards these packets.
- Replay previously captured packets to the DUT within the same SSH session.
- Confirm that the DUT detects and discards replayed packets.
Expected Results

- Confidentiality: All sensitive data transmitted over the Open FH M-Plane interface is encrypted, with no data exposed in clear text.
- Integrity protection: The DUT detects and discards altered packets, ensuring the data has not been tampered with.
- Replay protection: The DUT detects and discards replayed packets, preventing replay attacks.
Expected format of evidence

- Logs or screenshots showing SSH protocol adherence, as defined in the O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [2] clause 4.1.
- Evidence of secure communication sessions established over the Open FH M-Plane interface, including details of encryption verification.
- Logs or screenshots showing the DUT's response to replayed and integrity-compromised packets, demonstrating the effectiveness of the security mechanisms in place.

#### TLS-based M-Plane authentication, authorization and access control protection

##### Open FH M-plane TLS Authentication

Requirement Name: M-Plane authenticity protection over Open FH interface using TLS

Requirement Reference: Clause 5.4.3 in O-RAN WG4 Management Plane Specification [21]

Requirement Description:

Threat References: T-O-RAN-05, T-FRHAUL-01, T-FRHAUL-02, T-MPLANE-01

DUT/s: O-RU, O-DU

Test Name: TC_OFH_MPLANE_TLS_AUTHENTICATION

Purpose: Verify the TLS-based authentication mechanism for M-Plane over the Open FH interface by testing each DUT (O-RU or O-DU) independently. This test validates the correctness of the TLS handshake, certificate verification, and authentication process.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- Valid and invalid certificates are available for the testing.
- Testing equipment acting as a client (for O-RU as DUT) or server (for O-DU a DUT).
- For positive case: The DUT and the testing equipment are configured with valid TLS certificates for mutual authentication.
- For negative case: The DUT and the testing equipment are configured with invalid TLS certificates.
Execution steps

- Test the successful authentication of the DUT over the Open FH M-Plane interface using TLS.
- For O-RU as the DUT
- The test equipment initiates a TLS handshake with the DUT (NETCONF server).
- The DUT presents its certificate to the client and validates the client certificate.
- Observe and validate that the DUT verifies the client’s certificate.
- For O-DU as the DUT
- The DUT NETCONF client initiates a TLS handshake with the testing equipment (NETCONF server).
- The DUT presents its certificate to the server and validates the server certificate.
- Observe and validate that the DUT correctly verifies the server certificate.
- Test the failure of authentication over the Open FH M-Plane interface due to invalid certificates.
- For O-RU as DUT:
- The test equipment initiates a TLS handshake with the DUR, presenting an invalid certificate.
- Observe and validate that the DUT rejects the invalid certificate.
- Confirm that the TLS handshake fails and mutual authentication is not completed.
Expected Results

For step 1): Expected results in clause 6.3

For step 2) positive case (successful authentication): The DUT successfully authenticates against the NETCONF client/server over the TLS-based Open FH M-Plane interface. The TLS handshake completes without errors, and both sides verify each other’s certificates correctly.

For step 3), negative case (failed authentication) The DUT correctly rejects the invalid certificate. The TLS handshake fails, and mutual authentication is not established.

Expected format of evidence

For step 1): Logs showing adherence to TLS protocol specifications as defined in [2] clause 4.2. In case the logs do not show the required information, screenshots are used.

For step 2), Logs indicating successful authentication. In case the logs do not show the required information, screenshots are used.

For step 3), Logs indicating failed authentication. In case the logs do not show the required information, screenshots are used.

##### Open FH M-plane NACM Authorization

Requirement Name: M-Plane authorization and access control protection over Open FH interface using NACM

Requirement Reference: Clause 6.4.2 in O-RAN WG4 Management Plane Specification [21]

Requirement Description:

Threat References: T-O-RAN-05, T-FRHAUL-01, T-FRHAUL-02, T-MPLANE-01

DUT/s: O-RU

Test Name: TC_OFH_MPLANE_NACM_AUTHORIZATION

Purpose: Verify that NACM authorization policies are correctly enforced within the NETCONF session that has already been secured using TLS. This test ensures that properly authorized operations succeed and unauthorized operations are denied according to the configured NACM rules.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- The DUT (NETCONF server) and the testing equipment (NETCONF client) are mutually authenticated using mTLS.
- For positive case: The NACM rules and policies are properly configured on the NETCONF server to enforce authorization.
- For negative case: The NACM rules and policies are misconfigured denying the requested operation.
Execution steps

- Test the successful authorization of requests initiated by the O-RU Controller over the TLS-based NACM with NETCONF on the Open FH interface.
- The testing equipment (NETCONF client) sends a NETCONF request to the DUT to perform an authorized operation.
- The DUT evaluates the NACM rules and policies to determine if the testing equipment is authorized to perform the requested operation.
- The DUT executes the authorized operation and sends a response to the testing equipment.
- Test the failure of authorization for unauthorized operations initiated by the testing equipment over the TLS-based NACM with NETCONF on the Open FH interface.
- The testing equipment sends a NETCONF request to the DUT to perform an unauthorized operation.
- The DUT (NETCONF server) evaluates the NACM rules and policies and denies the unauthorized operation.
- The DUT rejects the unauthorized operation and sends an error response to the testing equipment.
Expected Results

For step 1) Positive case: successful authorization:

- The NETCONF request for an authorized operation is successfully received by the DUT.
- The DUT, after evaluating the NACM rules and policies, grants permission for the authorized operation.
- The DUT successfully executes the authorized operation and sends a confirmation response to the testing equipment.
For step 2) Negative case: failed authorization:

- The NETCONF request for an unauthorized operation is received by the DUT.
- The DUT, upon evaluating the NACM rules and policies, denies the unauthorized operation.
- The DUT does not execute the unauthorized operation and sends an error response to the testing equipment, indicating the rejection.
Expected format of evidence

For step 1), Logs containing the successful authorization. In case the logs do not show the required information, screenshots are used.

For step 2), Logs containing the failed authorization and rejection of the unauthorized operation. In case the logs do not show the required information, screenshots are used.

#### TLS-based M-Plane integrity, confidentiality and replay protection

Requirement Name: M-Plane confidentiality, integrity, and replay protection over Open FH M-plane interface using TLS

Requirement Reference: Clause 5.4 in O-RAN WG4 Management Plane Specifications [21]

Requirement Description:

Threat References: T-O-RAN-05, T-FRHAUL-01, 02, T-MPLANE-01

DUT/s: O-RU, O-DU

Test Name: TC_OFH_MPLANE_TLS_CONFIDENTIALITY_INTEGRITY_REPLAY

Purpose: To verify the confidentiality, integrity, and replay protection of Open FH M-Plane data using TLS.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- O-RU, O-DU support TLS and are connected in a simulated or real network environment.
- The Open FH M-Plane interface is configured for testing.
- TLS is properly implemented and configured as defined in [2] clause 4.2.
Execution steps

- Establish a secure communication session over the Open FH M-Plane interface.
- Capture the network traffic during the session.
- Analyse the captured traffic to verify that all data is encrypted, ensuring confidentiality.
- Capture protected packets after the TLS handshake.
- Modify the captured packets.
- Inject the modified packets into the DUT.
- Confirm that the DUT discards the injected packets, e.g., does not deliver it to the higher layer.
- Capture protected packets after the TLS handshake.
- Replay the captured packets into the DUT.
- Confirm that the DUT discards the replayed packets.
Expected results

- Confidentiality: All data transmitted over the Open FH M-Plane interface is encrypted, with no data exposed in clear text.
- Integrity protection: The DUT detects and discards altered packets, ensuring data has not been tampered with.
- Replay protection: The DUT detects and discards replayed packets, preventing replay attacks.
Expected format of evidence

The following evidence, in one or more formats as applicable, should be provided:

- Logs or screenshots showing TLS protocol adherence, as defined in the O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [2] clause 4.2.
- Logs or screenshots of the encrypted packets delivered to each TLS endpoint on the Open FH M-Plane.
- Logs or screenshots showing the DUT's response to replayed and integrity-compromised packets, demonstrating the effectiveness of the security mechanisms in place.

### U-Plane

#### U-Plane eCPRI Unexpected Input

##### Open FH U-Plane Malformed Packet

Requirement Name: Handling and rejection of malformed or invalid user plane packets

Requirement Reference: Clause 5.2.5.2.1 in O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description:

Threat References: T-FRHAUL-01, T-FRHAUL-02, T-UPLANE-01

DUT/s: O-RU, O-DU

Test Name: TC_OFH_U-PLANE_MALFORMED_PACKET

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to verify the O-DU's ability to handle and reject malformed or invalid user plane packets.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

A valid eCPRI connection between the O-RU and O-DU.

Execution steps

Expected Results

- The O-DU detects and rejects malformed or invalid user plane packets.
- It handles the rejection gracefully without affecting normal operation.
- Appropriate error messages or log entries are generated.
Expected Format of Evidence:

- Detailed execution logs of the performed steps.
- Logs containing the detection and rejection of the malformed packet. In case the logs do not show the required information, screenshots are used.

##### Open FH U-Plane Unexpected Payload Size

Requirement Name: Handling and rejection of malformed or invalid user plane packets

Requirement Reference: Clause 5.2.5.2.1 in O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description:

Threat References: T-FRHAUL-01, T-FRHAUL-02, T-UPLANE-01

DUT/s: O-RU, O-DU

Test Name: TC_OFH_U-PLANE_UNEXPECTED_PAYLOAD_SIZE

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to verify the O-DU's ability to handle unexpected payload sizes in user plane packets.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

A valid eCPRI connection between the O-RU and O-DU.

Execution steps

Expected Results

- The O-DU detects and handles unexpected payload sizes in user plane packets.
- It either rejects the packet or handles it with appropriate error handling mechanisms.
- The O-DU maintains acceptable performance levels despite the unexpected payload size.
Expected Format of Evidence:

- Detailed execution logs of the performed steps.
- Logs containing the detection and handling of the unexpected payload size. In case the logs do not show the required information, screenshots are used.

### S-Plane

#### DoS Attack against a timeTransmitter

##### DoS timeTransmitter LLS C1 C2 C3

Refer to the test case in clause 7.5.1 for test verification

##### DoS timeTransmitter LLS C4

> NOTE:	In LLS-C4, the local PRTC is embedded in the O-RU and provides time synchronization internally to the O-RU. This local PRTC does not depend on an external timeTransmitter, such as the O-DU or a PRTC/T-GM in Open FH, to maintain its synchronization. Therefore, there is no external network communication path where a DoS attack targeting a timeTransmitter could be launched.

#### Spoofing of timeTransmitters in the S-Plane

##### Impersonation timeTransmitter

Requirement Name: Spoofing Prevention for timeTransmitters in the S-Plane

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-OFSP-2, clause 5.2.5.3.2, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: The S-Plane provides a means to prevent spoofing of timeTransmitters

Threat References: T-SPLANE-02, T-SPLANE-03

DUT/s: O-RU, O-DU

Test Name: TC_IMPERSONATION_TIMETRANSMITTER

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to verify the protection of the S-plane against an impersonation attack where an attacker sends fake ANNOUNCE messages to declare itself as the best clock (Grandmaster). The test evaluates whether the DUT correctly enforces vendor-implemented protection mechanisms to prevent time synchronization disruptions.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- The vendor documentation on the anti-spoofing mechanisms implemented for protecting the S-plane against timeTransmitter (EXAMPLE: 802.1X Port-based Network Access Control (PNAC), redundancy with multiple timeTransmitters, cryptographic integrity checks).
- The vendor detailed the test procedures they followed internally to validate their implementation, including the expected behavior and results of their security mechanisms under both normal and attack conditions.
- For LLS-C1: The timeTransmitter functionality is enabled on the O-DU. O-DU is acting as a timeTransmitter and directly synchronizes O-RU.
- For LLS-C2: One or more Ethernet switches are allowed in the Open Fronthaul network. O-DU acting as timeTransmitter to distribute network timing toward O-RU.
- For LLS-C3: One or more PRTC/T-GM are implemented in the Open Fronthaul network to distribute network timing toward O-DU and O-RU.
- A network monitoring tool is set up to capture and analyse network traffic.
Execution steps

Expected Results

- The vendor’s test cases are sufficient, and security mechanisms perform as expected.
- The DUT detects and mitigates the impersonation attack.
- The synchronization status remains stable and accurate.
- The actual test results match the vendor’s documented expected results.
- If insufficient tests are found:
- The tester documents missing areas and recommends further test procedures.
- The vendor may be required to implement additional security measures.
Expected Format of Evidence:

- Summary of the vendor’s provided test procedures and security mechanisms.
- Logs showing successful execution of vendor tests.
- Statement confirming whether vendor tests are adequate or insufficient.
- Recommendations for additional security validations (if necessary).

##### Rogue PTP Instance

Requirement Name: Spoofing Prevention for timeTransmitter in the S-Plane

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-OFSP-2, clause 5.2.5.3.2, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: The S-Plane provides a means to prevent spoofing of master clocks

Threat References: T-SPLANE-02, T-SPLANE-03

DUT/s: O-RU, O-DU

Test Name: TC_ROGUE_PTP_INSTANCE

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to verify the protection of the S-plane against an attacker sending manipulated or malicious ANNOUNCE messages to declare itself as the best clock (Grandmaster). The test evaluates whether the DUT correctly enforces vendor-implemented protection mechanisms to prevent time synchronization disruptions.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- The vendor documentation describes the security mechanisms implemented to prevent rogue PTP instances.
- The vendor details the test procedures they followed to validate their implementation, including the expected behaviour and results of their security mechanisms under both normal and attack conditions.
- For LLS-C1: The timeTransmitter functionality is enabled on the O-DU. O-DU is acting as a timeTransmitter and directly synchronizes O-RU.
- For LLS-C2: One or more Ethernet switches are allowed in the Open Fronthaul network. O-DU acting as timeTransmitter to distribute network timing toward O-RU.
- For LLS-C3: One or more PRTC/T-GM are implemented in the Open Fronthaul network to distribute network timing toward O-DU and O-RU.
- A network monitoring tool is set up to capture and analyse network traffic.
Execution steps

Expected Results

- The vendor’s test cases are sufficient, and security mechanisms perform as expected.
- The DUT detects and rejects rogue PTP messages.
- The synchronization remains stable and accurate.
- The actual test results match the vendor’s documented expected results.
- If insufficient tests are found:
- The tester documents missing areas and recommends further test procedures.
- The vendor may be required to implement additional security measures.
Expected Format of Evidence:

- Summary of the vendor’s provided test procedures and security mechanisms.
- Logs showing successful execution of vendor tests.
- Statement confirming whether vendor tests are adequate or insufficient.
- Recommendations for additional security validations (if necessary).

#### Clock Accuracy Protection Against MITM Attacks

##### Selective Interception and Removal of PTP Timing Packets

Requirement Name: Clock Accuracy Protection Against MITM Attacks

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-OFSP-3, clause 5.2.5.3.2, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description:

Threat References: T-SPLANE-04, T-SPLANE-05

DUT/s: O-RU, O-DU

Test Name: TC_SELECTIVE_INTERCEPTION_REMOVAL_PTP_TIMING_PACKETS

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to verify the resilience of the S-plane against an attack where PTP timing packets are selectively intercepted and removed.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- For LLS-C2: One or more Ethernet switches are allowed in the Open Fronthaul network. O-DU acting as master to distribute network timing toward O-RU.
- For LLS-C3: One or more PRTC/T-GM are implemented in the Open Fronthaul network to distribute network timing toward O-DU and O-RU.
- The network monitoring tool is set up to capture and analyse network traffic between the O-RU and O-DU.
Execution steps

- For LLS-C2, use a network device or software with packet interception capabilities to intercept PTP timing packets between the O-RU and O-DU. Modify the intercepted packets to selectively remove PTP timing packets.
- For LLS-C3, use a network device or software capable of deep packet inspection (DPI) to intercept and analyse PTP timing packets. Modify the intercepted packets to selectively remove PTP timing packets.
> NOTE:	The network monitoring tool can be Wireshark or tcpdump, configured to capture packets on the interfaces between the O-RU, O-DU and to identify the intercepted and removed PTP timing packets.
Expected Results

- Detection of missing PTP timing packets: The S-plane is able to detect the absence of specific PTP timing packets that were selectively intercepted and removed.
- Synchronization maintenance: Despite the missing PTP timing packets, the O-RU and O-DU still maintain synchronization. Any deviations from expected synchronization are minimal and within acceptable thresholds.
- Corrective actions: Upon detecting the missing PTP timing packets, the O-RU and O-DU initiate predefined corrective actions to restore synchronization and mitigate the effects of the missing packets.
- Network traffic analysis: The captured network traffic clearly shows the instances where specific PTP timing packets were intercepted and removed.
- No system failures: The system (O-RU and O-DU) doesn’t experience any catastrophic failures or shutdowns due to the missing PTP timing packets.
Expected Format of Evidence:

The following evidence, in one or more formats as applicable, should be provided for each configuration (LLS-C2, LLS-C3):

- Recorded network traffic captured by the monitoring tool during the attack simulation showing selective interception and removal of PTP timing packets in LLS-C2 (with Ethernet switches) and LLS-C3 (with PRTC/T-GM).
- Observations and analysis of the impact on synchronization and timing accuracy.
- Any issues or anomalies encountered during the attack simulation.

##### Delay Attack on PTP Timing Packets

Requirement Name: Clock Accuracy Protection Against MITM Attacks

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-OFSP-3, clause 5.2.5.3.2, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description:

Threat References: T-SPLANE-04, T-SPLANE-05

DUT/s: O-RU, O-DU

Test Name: TC_DELAY_ATTACK_PTP_TIMING_PACKETS

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to verify the S-plane's resilience against a delay attack on PTP timing packets.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- For LLS-C2: One or more Ethernet switches are allowed in the Open Fronthaul network. O-DU acting as master to distribute network timing toward O-RU.
- For LLS-C3: One or more PRTC/T-GM are implemented in the Open Fronthaul network to distribute network timing toward O-DU and O-RU.
- Time synchronization is established and operational within the network.
Execution steps

- For LLS-C2 and LLS-C3, use a custom script or tool that supports packet manipulation and delay to introduce artificial delays in PTP timing packets between the O-RU and O-DU or between PRTC/T-GM devices.
Expected Results

- The S-plane detects the delay attack on PTP timing packets and applies appropriate measures to mitigate the impact within all LLS configurations.
- The O-RU and O-DU detects the delayed PTP timing packets, compensate for the introduced delays, and maintain synchronization.
Expected Format of Evidence:

The following evidence, in one or more formats as applicable, should be provided for each configuration (LLS-C2, LLS-C3):

- Recorded network traffic captured by the monitoring tool during the attack. This includes logs showing the introduction of delays in PTP timing packets for LLS-C2 (with Ethernet switches) and LLS-C3 (with PRTC/T-GM).
- Observations and analysis of the impact on synchronization and timing accuracy within each LLS configuration.
- Any issues or anomalies encountered during the attack simulation.

## Y1

### Y1 Authenticity

Requirement Name: Y1 protection in terms of authenticity

Requirement Reference-NEAR-RT-9, clause 5.1.3.2.4, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description:

Threat References: T-Y1-01, T-Y1-02, T-Y1-03

DUT/s: Near-RT RIC, Y1 consumers

Test Name: TC_Y1_AUTHENTICATION

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to verify the authenticity of the Y1 interface, ensuring that only legitimate and mutually authenticated Near-RT RIC, Y1 consumers can participate in the communication over the Y1 interface.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- Near-RT RIC & Y1 Consumers support mTLS and be connected in a simulated/real network environment.
- The test environment is set up with the Y1 interface configured.
- The tester has access to the original data transported over the Y1 interface.
- mTLS is properly implemented and configured as defined in [2] clause 4.2.
Execution steps

- The tester sends a request to establish a connection with the Y1 interface using valid authentication certificates.
- The tester verifies the mutual certificate verification between Near-RT RIC and Y1 consumers.
- The tester captures and analyses the response received from the Y1 interface.
- The tester sends a request to establish a connection with the Y1 interface with invalid certificates.
- The tester captures and analyses the response received from the Y1 interface.
- The tester sends a request to establish a connection without any certificates.
- The tester captures and analyses the response from the Y1 interface.
Expected results

For 1) Expected results in clause 6.3

For 2) 'Valid Authentication Certificates': The Y1 interface accepts the valid certificates and responds with a successful authentication message. The mutual certificate verification process is successful.

For 3) 'Invalid Authentication Certificates': The connection attempt is rejected, and an authentication failure message is received. The mutual certificate verification process fails due to the use of invalid certificates.

For 4) 'No Authentication Certificates': The connection attempt is rejected, and an authentication failure message is received. The mutual certificate verification process fails due to the absence of certificates.

Expected Format of Evidence:

The following evidence, in one or more formats as applicable, should be provided:

- Logs and screenshots showing adherence to mTLS protocol specifications as defined in [2] clause 4.2.
- Logs of authentication requests and responses on the Y1 interface
- Logs of the mutual certificate verification process.
- Screenshots or logs of error messages or unusual behaviours for both invalid and no certificate scenarios.

### Y1 confidentiality, integrity, and replay protection

Requirement Name: Y1 protection in terms of confidentiality, integrity and replay

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-11, clause 5.1.3.2.4, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description:

Threat References: T-Y1-01, T-Y1-02, T-Y1-03

DUT/s: Near-RT RIC, Y1 consumers

Test Name: TC_Y1_CONFIDENTIALITY_INTEGRITY_REPLAY

Purpose: To verify the enforcement of security policies over the Y1 interface, ensuring that sensitive data remains protected through confidentiality, integrity, and replay protection.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- Near-RT RIC and Y1 consumers support TLS and connected within simulated or real network environments.
- The Y1 interface is configured for testing.
- TLS is properly implemented and configured as defined in [2] clause 4.2.
Execution steps

- Establish a secure communication session over the Y1 interface.
- Capture the network traffic during the session.
- Analyse the captured traffic to verify that all data is encrypted, ensuring confidentiality.
- Capture protected packets after the TLS handshake.
- Modify the captured packets.
- Inject the modified packets to the DUT.
- Confirm that the DUT discards the injected packets, e.g., does not deliver it to the higher layer.
- Capture protected packets after the TLS handshake.
- Replay the captured packets to the DUT.
- Confirm that the DUT discards the replayed packets.
Expected results

- Confidentiality: All sensitive data transmitted over the Y1 interface is encrypted, with no data exposed in clear text.
- Integrity protection: The DUT detects and discards altered packets, ensuring data has not been tampered with.
- Replay protection: The DUT detects and discards replayed packets, preventing replay attacks.
Expected Format of Evidence:

The following evidence, in one or more formats as applicable, should be provided:

- Logs showing TLS protocol adherence, as defined in the O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [2] clause 4.2. In case the logs do not show the required information, screenshots are used.
- Logs with the evidence of secure communication sessions established over the Y1 interface, including details of encryption verification.
- Logs showing the DUT's response to replayed and integrity-compromised packets, demonstrating the effectiveness of the security mechanisms in place. In case the logs do not show the required information, screenshots are used.

### Y1 Authorization

Requirement Name: Y1 protection in terms of authorization

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-10, clause 5.1.3.2.4, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: Near-RT RIC Y1 Interface supports OAuth 2.0 based authorization.

Threat References: T-Y1-01

DUT/s: Near-RT RIC

Test Name: TC_Y1_AUTHORIZATION

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to validate that the Y1 interface enforces an authorization mechanism to prevent unauthorized access.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- Near-RT RIC Y1 Interface supports OAuth 2.0 and is the Resource Server
- Y1 Consumer may be real or simulated
- Test 6.6.2 Scenario:
- Preconditions enabled as specified in Clause 6.6.2 (to validate DUT as O-Auth2.0 supported Resource Server)
- Y1 Consumer configured with the permitted role to have access to the resource to be requested
- Not permitted role:
- Y1 Consumer configured with a role, that does not permit access to the resource
- Invalid Access Token Scenario:
- Y1 Consumer is configured to present an invalid access token
- No Access Token Scenario:
- Y1 Consumer is configured to present no access token
Execution steps

- Verify the validation required for valid access token as defined in clause 6.6.2
- The Y1 Consumer sends a request directly to the resource server to access protected resources using a valid access token, however the role does not permit access to the resource.
- Verify that Resource Server rejects access to the requested resource as Consumer does not have permitted role.
- The Y1 Consumer sends a request directly to the resource server to access protected resources using an incorrect access token.
- Verify that Resource Server rejects access to the requested resource due to incorrect access token.
- The Y1 Consumer sends a request directly to the resource server to access protected resources without providing any access token.
- Verify that Resource Server rejects access to the requested resource without an access token.
Expected Results

For 1) Expected results as in clause 6.6.2

For 2) Not permitted role: The DUT verifies the role of the Y1 consumer for the requested resource, as not allowed/incorrect, and the access is rejected, and an access failure message is generated.

For 3) Incorrect access tokens: The DUT verifies the access token, and token being invalid, the access is rejected, and an access failure message is generated.

For 4) No access tokens: The DUT rejects the access due to the absence of tokens, and an appropriate error or unauthorized access message is generated.

Expected Format of Evidence:

The following evidence, in one or more formats as applicable, should be provided:

- Logs of the request sent to access protected resources using valid access tokens.
- Logs highlighting the successful authorization message. In case the logs do not show the required information, screenshots are used.
- Logs of the request sent to access protected resources when role is not permitted, when using invalid access tokens and no access token.
- Logs showing the rejection of the access and the access failure message when consumer role is not permitted, consumer configured to present invalid access token and consumer configured to present no access token are used. In case the logs do not show the required information, screenshots are used.

## O1

### O1 Authenticity

Requirement Name: O1 protection in terms of authenticity

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-O1-2, SEC-CTL-O1-5, clause 5.2.2.2, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description:

Threat References: T-MPLANE-01, T-O-RAN-05

DUT/s: SMO, O-CU, O-DU, Near-RT RIC

Test Name: TC_O1_AUTHENTICATION

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to verify the authenticity of the O1 interface, ensuring that only legitimate and authenticated O-RAN NFs can participate in the communication over the O1 interface.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- SMO, O-CU, O-DU, Near-RT RIC support mTLS and be connected in simulated/real network environment.
- The test environment is set up with O1 interface configured.
- The tester has access to the original data transported over the O1 interface.
- mTLS is properly implemented and configured as defined in [2] clause 4.2.
Execution steps

- The tester sends a request to establish a connection with the O1 interface using valid authentication certificates.
- The tester verifies the mutual certificate verification between the ORAN NFs
- The tester captures and analyses the response received from the O1 interface.
- The tester sends a request to establish a connection with the O1 interface with invalid certificates.
- The tester captures and analyses the response received from the O1 interface.
- The tester sends a request to establish a connection without any certificates.
- The tester captures and analyses the response from the O1 interface.
Expected results

For 1) Expected results in clause 6.3

For 2) 'Valid Authentication Certificates': The O1 interface accepts the valid certificates and responds with a successful authentication message. The mutual certificate verification process is successful.

For 3) 'Invalid Authentication Certificates': The connection attempt is rejected, and an authentication failure message is received. The mutual certificate verification process fails due to the use of invalid certificates.

For 4) 'No Authentication Certificates': The connection attempt is rejected, and an authentication failure message is received. The mutual certificate verification process fails due to the absence of certificates.

Expected Format of Evidence:

The following evidence, in one or more formats as applicable, should be provided:

- Logs and screenshots showing adherence to mTLS protocol specifications as defined in [2] clause 4.2.
- Logs of authentication requests sent to the O1 interface.
- Logs of the mutual certificate verification process.
- Screenshots or logs of error messages or unusual behaviours for both invalid and no certificate scenarios.

### O1 confidentiality, integrity and replay protection

Requirement Name: O1 protection in terms of confidentiality, integrity and replay

Requirement Reference:SEC-CTL-O1-1, SEC-CTL-O1-4, clause 5.2.2.2, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description:

Threat References: T-MPLANE-01, T-O-RAN-05

DUT/s: SMO, O-CU, O-DU, Near-RT RIC

Test Name: TC_O1_CONFIDENTIALITY_INTEGRITY_REPLAY

Purpose: To verify the enforcement of security policies over the O1 interface, ensuring that sensitive data remains protected through confidentiality, integrity, and replay protection.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- SMO, O-CU, O-DU, Near-RT RIC support TLS and be connected in simulated/real network environment.
- The O1 interface is configured for testing.
- TLS is properly implemented and configured as defined in [2] clause 4.2.
Execution steps

- Establish a secure communication session over the O1 interface.
- Capture the network traffic during the session.
- Analyse the captured traffic to verify that all data is encrypted, ensuring confidentiality.
- Capture protected packets after the TLS handshake.
- Modify the captured packets.
- Inject the modified packets to the DUT.
- Confirm that the DUT discards the injected packets, e.g., does not deliver it to the higher layer.
- Capture protected packets after the TLS handshake.
- Replay the captured packets to the DUT.
- Confirm that the DUT discards the replayed packets.
Expected results

- Confidentiality: All sensitive data transmitted over the O1 interface is encrypted, with no data exposed in clear text.
- Integrity protection: The DUT detects and discards altered packets, ensuring data has not been tampered with.
- Replay protection: The DUT detects and discards replayed packets, preventing replay attacks.
Expected Format of Evidence:

The following evidence, in one or more formats as applicable, should be provided:

- Logs or screenshots showing TLS protocol adherence, as defined in the O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [2] clause 4.2.
- Evidence of secure communication sessions established over the O1 interface, including details of encryption verification.
- Logs or screenshots showing the DUT's response to replayed and integrity-compromised packets, demonstrating the effectiveness of the security mechanisms in place.

### O1 Interface Network Configuration Access Control Model (NACM) Validation

#### O1 Interface NACM Validation

Requirement Name: O1 Interface security requirements

Requirement Reference: REQ-NAC-FUN-1 to REQ-NAC-FUN-10, clause 5.2.2.3, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Threat References: T-O-RAN-02, T-O-RAN-06

Requirement Description: Requirements of O1 Interface Confidentiality, Integrity & Authenticity protection and Least Privilege Access Control

DUT/s: Non-RT RIC, Near-RT RIC, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU

Test Name: TC_O1_NACM_VALIDATION

Purpose: O-RAN architecture elements managed by SMO through O1 interface shall support secured NETCONF sessions over TLS and role-based least privilege access control enforced by NACM [14]. This test validates the O1 interface security requirements of the O-RAN architecture elements with the focus on role-based NACM rule(s) set enforcement.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

DUT shall be the O-RAN architecture element with:

- IP enabled O1 interface, reachable from the authentication server
- Valid certificate loaded for the server and necessary certificate authorities (CAs)
- Client’s root CA required to validate NETCONF client certificate
- Valid TLS Client-to-NETCONF username mapping
- Configure the O-RAN element with the SMO details (SMO network address and port)
Execution steps

First set up a host/device with TLS client software installed, valid client certificates, keys, root CA certificate for the server (O-RAN architecture element), and all intermediate CA certificates required to validate the client certificate.

The following test steps shall be validated:

> NOTE:	The O-RAN element may initiate the NETCONF call home procedure as part of its initialization automatically.
- enable-nacm = true
- read-default = permit
- write-default = deny
- exec-default = deny
- enable-external-groups = true
- O1_nacm_management
- O1_user_management
- O1_network_management
- O1_network_monitoring
- O1_software_management for only PNFs
Upon availability of the NETCONF operations set(s) definition per NACM group, the NACM rule set(s) enforcement by the DUT shall be validated for each of those pre-defined groups listed above.

Expected results

The O-RAN architecture element supports the NETCONF over TLS session over its O1 interface and NACM enforcement control settings.

Expected format of evidence:

Logs or screenshots showing:

- O1 interface setup.
- Valid server certificate and CA details.
- Client’s root CA and intermediate CA certificates.
- TLS Client-to-NETCONF username mapping.
- O-RAN element configured with SMO details.
- Initiation of NETCONF call home procedure.
- TLS 1.2 or TLS 1.3 connection establishment.
- Correct NETCONF user session mapping.

## O2

### O2 Authenticity

Requirement Name: O2 protection in terms of authenticity

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-O-CLOUD-INTERFACE-3, clause 5.1.8.9.2, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Threat References: T-O2-01

DUT/s: SMO, O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_O2_AUTHENTICATION

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to verify the authenticity of the O2 interface, ensuring that only legitimate and authenticated O-Cloud and SMO can participate in the communication over the O2 interface.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- O-Cloud and SMO support mTLS and be connected in simulated/real network environment.
- The test environment is set up with O2 interface configured.
- The tester has access to the original data transported over the O2 interface.
- mTLS is properly implemented and configured as defined in [2] clause 4.2.
Execution steps

- The tester sends a request to establish a connection with the O2 interface using valid authentication certificates.
- The tester verifies the mutual certificate verification between the ORAN NFs.
- The tester captures and analyses the response from the O2 interface.
- The tester sends a request to establish a connection with the O2 interface with invalid certificates.
- The tester captures and analyses the response from the O2 interface.
- The tester sends a request to establish a connection without any certificates.
- The tester captures and analyses the response from the O2 interface.
Expected results

For 1) Expected results in clause 6.3

For 2) 'Valid Authentication Certificates': The O2 interface accepts the valid certificates and respond with a successful authentication message.

For 3) 'Invalid Authentication Certificates': The connection is rejected, and an authentication failure message is received. The mutual certificate verification process fails due to the use of invalid certificates.

For 4) 'No Authentication Certificates': The connection attempt is rejected, and an authentication failure message is received. The mutual certificate verification process fails due to the absence of certificates.

Expected Format of Evidence:

The following evidence, in one or more formats as applicable, should be provided:

- Logs and screenshots showing adherence to mTLS protocol specifications as defined in [2] clause 4.2.
- Logs of authentication requests and responses on the O2 interface.
- Logs of the mutual certificate verification process.
- Screenshots or logs of error messages or unusual behaviours for both invalid and no certificate scenarios.

### O2 confidentiality, integrity and replay protection

Requirement Name: O2 protection in terms of confidentiality, integrity and replay

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-O-CLOUD-INTERFACE-1, clause 5.1.8.9.2, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Threat References: T-O2-01

DUT/s: SMO, O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_O2_CONFIDENTIALITY_INTEGRITY_REPLAY

Purpose: To verify the enforcement of security policies over the O2 interface, ensuring that sensitive data remains protected through confidentiality, integrity, and replay protection.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- O-Cloud and SMO support TLS and be connected in simulated/real network environment.
- The O2 interface is configured for testing.
- TLS is properly implemented and configured as defined in [2] clause 4.2.
Execution steps

- Establish a secure communication session over the O2 interface.
- Capture the network traffic during the session.
- Analyse the captured traffic to verify that all data is encrypted, ensuring confidentiality.
- Capture protected packets after the TLS handshake.
- Modify the captured packets.
- Inject the modified packets to the DUT.
- Confirm that the DUT discards the injected packets, e.g., does not deliver it to the higher layer.
- Capture protected packets after the TLS handshake.
- Replay the captured packets to the DUT.
- Confirm that the DUT discards the replayed packets.
Expected results

- Confidentiality: All sensitive data transmitted over the O2 interface is encrypted, with no data exposed in clear text.
- Integrity protection: The DUT detects and discards altered packets, ensuring data has not been tampered with.
- Replay protection: The DUT detects and discards replayed packets, preventing replay attacks.
Expected Format of Evidence:

The following evidence, in one or more formats as applicable, should be provided:

- Logs or screenshots showing TLS protocol adherence, as defined in the O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [2] clause 4.2.
- Evidence of secure communication sessions established over the O2 interface, including details of encryption verification.
- Logs or screenshots showing the DUT's response to replayed and integrity-compromised packets, demonstrating the effectiveness of the security mechanisms in place.

### O2 Authorization

Requirement Name: O2 protection in terms of authorization

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-O-CLOUD-INTERFACE-2, clause 5.1.8.9.2, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Threat References: T-O2-01

DUT/s: SMO, O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_O2_AUTHORIZATION

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to validate that the O2 interface enforces an authorization mechanism to prevent unauthorized access.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- O-Cloud and SMO support OAuth 2.0 and are connected in simulated/real network environment.
- The test environment is set up with O2 interface configured.
- The tester has access to the original data transported over the O2 interface.
- OAuth 2.0 is properly implemented and configured.
Execution steps

- The tester sends a request to access protected resources using a valid access token.
- The tester captures and analyses the response from the O2 interface.
- The tester sends a request to access protected resources using an invalid or incorrect access token.
- The tester captures and analyses the response from the O2 interface.
- The tester sends a request to access protected resources without providing any access token.
- The tester captures and analyses the response from the O2 interface.
Expected results

For 1). Expected results in clause 6.6

For 2) 'Valid access tokens': The O2 interface accepts the valid access tokens and responds with a successful authorization message.

For 3) 'Invalid access tokens': The access is rejected, and an access failure message is received.

For 4) 'No access tokens': The access is rejected due to the absence of tokens, and an appropriate error or unauthorized access message is received.

Expected Format of Evidence:

The following evidence, in one or more formats as applicable, should be provided:

- Logs of the request sent to access protected resources using valid access tokens.
- Screenshots or logs highlighting the successful authorization message.
- Logs of the request sent to access protected resources using invalid or incorrect access tokens.
- Screenshots or logs showing the rejection of the access and the access failure message.

## E2

### E2 confidentiality, integrity and replay protection

Requirement Name: E2 protection in terms of confidentiality, integrity, and replay

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-E2, clause 5.2.4.2, SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-2, SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-7, clause 5.1.3.2.1, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description:

Threat References: T-O-RAN-05, T-NEAR-RT-01, T-NEAR-RT-02, T-NEAR-RT-03, T-NEAR-RT-04

DUT/s: O-CU, O-DU, Near-RT RIC

Test Name: TC_E2_CONFIDENTIALITY_INTEGRITY_REPLAY

Purpose: To verify the enforcement of security policies over the E2 interface, ensuring that sensitive data remains protected through confidentiality, integrity, and replay protection

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- Near-RT RIC and E2 nodes support IPsec and are connected in simulated/real network environment.
- The E2 interface is configured for testing.
- The tunnel mode IPsec ESP and IKE certificate authentication is implemented.
- The tester shall base the test on the profile defined in [2] clause 4.5.
Execution steps

- Establish a secure communication session using IPsec over the E2 interface.
- Capture the network traffic during the session.
- Analyse the captured traffic to verify that all data is encrypted, ensuring confidentiality.
- Capture traffic during a secure session.
- Modify the captured packets.
- Inject the modified packets to the DUT.
- Confirm that the DUT discards the injected packets, e.g., does not deliver it to the higher layer.
- Capture protected packets during a secure session and attempt to replay them.
- Replay the captured packets to the DUT.
- Confirm that the DUT discards the replayed packets.
Expected Results

- Confidentiality: All sensitive data transmitted over the E2 interface is encrypted, with no data exposed in clear text.
- Integrity protection: The DUT detects and discards altered packets, ensuring data has not been tampered with.
- Replay protection: The DUT detects and discards replayed packets, preventing replay attacks.
Expected format of evidence:

The following evidence, in one or more formats as applicable, should be provided:

- Logs or screenshots showing TLS protocol adherence, as defined in the O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [2] clause 4.5.
- Evidence of secure communication sessions established over the E2 interface, including details of encryption verification.
- Logs or screenshots showing the DUT’s response to replayed and integrity-compromised packets, demonstrating the effectiveness of the security mechanisms in place.

### E2 Authenticity

#### E2 Authenticity with certificate

Requirement Name: Data Authentication over E2 interface

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-2, clause 5.1.3.2.1, SEC-CTL-E2-1, clause 5.2.4.2 in O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description:

Threat References: T-O-RAN-05, T-NEAR-RT-01, T-NEAR-RT-02, T-NEAR-RT-03, T-NEAR-RT-04

DUT/s: O-CU, O-DU, Near-RT RIC

Test Name: TC_E2_AUTHENTICATION_CERT

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to verify the authenticity of the E2 interface with valid certificates, ensuring that only legitimate and authenticated Near-RT RIC and E2 nodes can participate in the communication over the E2 interface.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- Near-RT RIC and E2 nodes support IPsec and are connected in simulated/real network environment.
- Near-RT RIC and E2 nodes support IPsec and are configured to use certificate-based authentication.
- The test environment is set up with E2 interface configured. Communication sessions over the E2 interface are established.
- The vendor provides documentation describing how authenticity protection is achieved for the data transmission over the E2 interface.
- The tunnel mode IPsec ESP and IKE certificate authentication is implemented.
- Tester has knowledge of the security parameters of tunnel for decrypting the ESP packets.
- Tester has access to the original user data transported over the E2 interface.
- IPsec is properly implemented and configured. The tester bases the test on the profile defined in [2] clause 4.5.
Execution steps

- The tester sends a request to establish a connection with the E2 interface using valid certificates.
- The tester captures and analyses the response from the E2 interface.
- The tester sends a request to establish a connection with the E2 interface using invalid certificates.
- The tester captures and analyses the response from the E2 interface.
- The tester sends a request to establish a connection with the E2 interface without providing any certificates.
- The tester captures and analyses the response from the E2 interface.
Expected Results

For 1) Expected results in clause 6.5.4

For 2) 'Valid Authentication Credentials': The E2 interface accepts the valid certificate and responds with a successful authentication message.

For 3) 'Invalid Authentication Credentials': The connection is rejected due to the certificate verification failure, and an authentication failure message is received.

For 4) 'No Authentication Credentials': The connection attempt fails due to the absence of certificates, and an authentication failure message is received.

Expected format of evidence:

- Logs and screenshots showing adherence to IPsec protocol specifications as defined in [2] clause 4.5.
- Screenshots or logs of request-response messages confirming authentication with valid credentials.
- Screenshots or logs capturing the rejection of requests with invalid credentials.
- Screenshots or logs documenting attempts to connect without credentials and their rejection.

#### E2 Authenticity with PSK

Requirement Name: Data Authentication over E2 interface

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-2, clause 5.1.3.2.1, SEC-CTL-E2-1, clause 5.2.4.2, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description:

Threat References: T-O-RAN-05, T-NEAR-RT-01, T-NEAR-RT-02, T-NEAR-RT-03, T-NEAR-RT-04

DUT/s: O-CU, O-DU, Near-RT RIC

Test Name: TC_E2_AUTHENTICATION_PSK

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to verify the authenticity of the E2 interface with valid PSK, ensuring that only legitimate and authenticated Near-RT RIC and E2 nodes can participate in the communication over the E2 interface.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- Near-RT RIC and E2 nodes support IPsec and are connected in simulated/real network environment.
- Near-RT RIC and E2 nodes support IPsec and are configured to use PSK-based authentication.
- The test environment is set up with E2 interface configured. Communication sessions over the E2 interface are established.
- The vendor provides documentation describing how authenticity protection is achieved for the data transmission over the E2 interface.
- The tunnel mode IPsec ESP and IKE certificate authentication is implemented.
- Tester has knowledge of the security parameters of tunnel for decrypting the ESP packets.
- Tester has access to the original user data transported over the E2 interface.
- IPsec is properly implemented and configured. The bases the test on the profile defined in [2] clause 4.5.
Execution steps

- The tester sends a request to establish a connection with the E2 interface using valid PSKs.
- The tester captures and analyses the response from the E2 interface.
- The tester sends a request to establish a connection with the E2 interface with incorrect PSKs.
- The tester captures and analyses the response from the E2 interface.
- The tester sends a request to establish a connection with the E2 interface without providing any PSKs.
- The tester captures and analyses the response from the E2 interface.
Expected Results

For 1) Expected results in clause 6.5.4

For 2) 'Valid Authentication Credentials': The E2 interface accepts the valid PSK and responds with a successful authentication message.

For 3) 'Invalid Authentication Credentials (Incorrect PSKs)': The connection is rejected due to PSK verification failure, and an authentication failure message is received.

For 4) 'No Authentication Credentials (No PSKs)': The connection attempt fails due to the absence of PSKs, and an authentication failure message is received.

Expected format of evidence:

- Logs and screenshots showing adherence to IPsec protocol specifications as defined in [2] clause 4.5.
- Logs or screenshots documenting request and response messages for successful authentication using valid credentials.
- Logs or screenshots capturing the request and response messages when invalid credentials are rejected.
- Logs or screenshots documenting the request and response messages for rejections of connections without PSKs.

#### E2 Interface data validation by Near-RT RIC

Requirement Name: Validation of the data received via E2 interface by Near-RT RIC

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-17, clause 5.1.3.2.5, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: The Near-RT RIC shall verify data received through the E2 interface as follows:

The data values are valid.

The data is being received at or below a pre-defined rate.

The Near-RT RIC shall log security event(s) if any of the verification steps fail.

Threat References: T-NEAR-RT-01, T-xApp-01

DUT/s: Near-RT RIC

Test Name: TC_E2_Interface_data_validation_by_NearRTRIC

Purpose: To validate the E2 traffic that is received by Near-RT RIC via E2 interface. The Near-RT RIC uses E2 interface to collect near real-time information (EXAMPLE:- UE basis, Cell basis) and provide value added services. These real-time information needs to be validated when it gets received at Near-RT RIC and security events are to be logged if data validation fails. E2 interface connects the Near-Real-Time RIC with other E2 nodes like O-CU, O-DU, and O-eNB.

Procedure and execution steps

- Channel quality reports: Signal strength, signal-to-noise ratio (SNR), and modulation quality.
- Interference reports: Identifying sources of interference.
- Load reports: Current load on E2 nodes
Preconditions

Client is the test system which simulates E2 data traffic towards Near-RT RIC. This includes all the supported E2 support services (EXAMPLE: E2 RESET procedure), Measurement reports and other supported services. Test system is also capable of simulating multiple E2 connections where E2 traffic can be pushed.

- Near-RT RIC is fully operational and data value validation in Near-RT RIC is defined, and the pre-defined data threshold rate is set. By fully operational Near-RT RIC, this means the Near-RT RIC is enabled with necessary xApps and configurations at the platform level.
- Client system is logged in and the initial control connections are up with Near-RT RIC. At this point the Near-RT RIC has subscribed with E2 Nodes in the Client system and is expecting data at a predefined rate.
- Login to the DUT with authorized credentials and start data collection required for checking the data handling.
Execution steps

Expected results

After step 1, the DUT processes the data traffic received over a single E2 connection.

After step 2, the DUT processes the data traffic received simultaneously over multiple E2 connections.

After step 3, the DUT discards the data and security event is logged with the logs fields as per clause 5.3.8.8 of [5].

After step 4, the DUT receives E2 traffic and handles it because E2 data is at, or below the pre-defined rate in DUT.

After step 5, the DUT discards the spilled over data and security events are logged with the log fields are as per clause 5.3.8.8 of [5] because the E2 data rate is higher than the pre-defined rate in DUT.

Expected format of evidence: Log files, traffic captures and/or report files.

## A1

### A1 Authenticity

Requirement Name: A1 protection in terms of authenticity

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-A1-2, clause 5.2.1.2, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description:

Threat References: T-A1-01

DUT/s: Non-RT RIC, Near-RT RIC

Test Name: TC_A1_Authentication

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to verify the authenticity of the A1 interface, ensuring that only legitimate and authenticated Non-RT RIC, Near-RT RIC can participate in the communication over the A1 interface.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- Non-RT RIC & Near-RT RIC support mTLS and be connected in a simulated/real network environment.
- The test environment is set up with the A1 interface configured.
- The tester has access to the original data transported over the A1 interface.
- mTLS is properly implemented and configured as defined in [2] clause 4.2.
Execution steps

- The tester sends a request to establish a connection with the A1 interface using valid authentication certificates.
- The tester verifies the mutual certificate verification between Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC.
- The tester captures and analyses the response received from the A1 interface.
- The tester sends a request to establish a connection with the A1 interface with invalid certificates.
- The tester captures and analyses the response received from the A1 interface.
- The tester sends a request to establish a connection without any certificates.
- The tester captures and analyses the response from the A1 interface.
Expected results

For 1) Expected results in clause 6.3

For 2) 'Valid Authentication Certificates': The A1 interface accepts the valid certificates and responds with a successful authentication message. The mutual certificate verification process is successful.

For 3) 'Invalid Authentication Certificates': The connection attempt is rejected, and an authentication failure message is received. The mutual certificate verification process fails due to the use of invalid certificates.

For 4) 'No Authentication Certificates': The connection attempt is rejected, and an authentication failure message is received. The mutual certificate verification process fails due to the absence of certificates.

Expected Format of Evidence:

The following evidence, in one or more formats as applicable, should be provided:

- Logs and screenshots showing adherence to mTLS protocol specifications as defined in [2] clause 4.2.
- Logs of authentication requests and responses on the A1 interface.
- Logs of the mutual certificate verification process.
- Screenshots or logs of error messages or unusual behaviours for both invalid and no certificate scenarios.

### A1 confidentiality, integrity and replay protection

Requirement Name: A1 protection in terms of confidentiality, integrity, and replay

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-A1, clause 5.2.1.2, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description:

Threat References: T-A1-02, T-A1-03

DUT/s: Non-RT RIC, Near-RT RIC

Test Name: TC_A1_CONFIDENTIALITY_INTEGRITY_REPLAY

Purpose: To verify the enforcement of security policies over the A1 interface, ensuring that sensitive data remains protected through confidentiality, integrity, and replay protection.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- Non-RT RIC & Near-RT RIC support TLS and connected within simulated or real network environments.
- The A1 interface is configured for testing.
- TLS is properly implemented and configured as defined in [2] clause 4.2.
Execution steps

- Establish a secure communication session over the A1 interface.
- Capture the network traffic during the session.
- Analyse the captured traffic to verify that all data is encrypted, ensuring confidentiality.
- Capture protected packets after the TLS handshake.
- Modify the captured packets.
- Inject the modified packets to the DUT.
- Confirm that the DUT discards the injected packets, e.g., does not deliver it to the higher layer.
- Capture protected packets after the TLS handshake.
- Replay the captured packets to the DUT.
- Confirm that the DUT discards the replayed packets.
Expected results

- Confidentiality: All sensitive data transmitted over the A1 interface is encrypted, with no data exposed in clear text.
- Integrity protection: The DUT detects and discards altered packets, ensuring data has not been tampered with.
- Replay protection: The DUT detects and discards replayed packets, preventing replay attacks.
Expected Format of Evidence:

The following evidence, in one or more formats as applicable, should be provided:

- Logs or screenshots showing TLS protocol adherence, as defined in the O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [2] clause 4.2.
- Evidence of secure communication sessions established over the A1 interface, including details of encryption verification.
- Logs or screenshots showing the DUT's response to replayed and integrity-compromised packets, demonstrating the effectiveness of the security mechanisms in place.

### 11.6.3 A1 Authorization

Requirement Name: A1 protection in terms of authorization

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-A1-3, clause 5.2.1.2, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description:

Threat References: T-A1-01

DUT/s: Non-RT RIC, Near-RT RIC

Test Name: TC_A1_Authorization

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to validate that the A1 interface enforces an authorization mechanism to prevent unauthorized access.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC support OAuth 2.0 and are connected in simulated/real network environment.
- The test environment is set up with A1 interface configured.
- The tester has access to the original data transported over the A1 interface.
- OAuth 2.0 is properly implemented and configured.
Execution steps

- The tester sends a request to access protected resources using a valid access token.
- The tester captures and analyses the response from the A1 interface.
- The tester sends a request to access protected resources using an invalid or incorrect access token.
- The tester captures and analyses the response from the A1 interface.
- The tester sends a request to access protected resources without providing any access token.
- The tester captures and analyses the response from the A1 interface.
Expected Results

For 1) Expected results in clause 6.6

For 2) 'Valid access tokens': The A1 interface accepts the valid access tokens and responds with a successful authorization message.

For 3) 'Invalid access tokens': The access is rejected, and an access failure message is received.

For 4) 'No access tokens': The access is rejected due to the absence of tokens, and an appropriate error or unauthorized access message is received.

Expected Format of Evidence:

The following evidence, in one or more formats as applicable, should be provided:

- Logs of the request sent to access protected resources using valid access tokens.
- Screenshots or logs highlighting the successful authorization message.
- Logs of the request sent to access protected resources using invalid or incorrect access tokens.
- Screenshots or logs showing the rejection of the access and the access failure message.

## R1

### R1 Authenticity

Requirement Name: R1 protection in terms of authenticity

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-R1-2, clause 5.2.6.2, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description:

Threat References: T-R1-03

DUT/s: Non-RT RIC, rApps

Test Name: TC_R1_AUTHENTICATION

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to verify the authenticity of the R1 interface, ensuring that only legitimate and authenticated Non-RT RIC, rApps can participate in the communication over the R1 interface.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- Non-RT RIC & rApps support mTLS and be connected in a simulated/real network environment.
- The test environment is set up with the R1 interface configured.
- The tester has access to the original data transported over the R1 interface.
- mTLS is properly implemented and configured as defined in [2] clause 4.2.
Execution steps

- The tester sends a request to establish a connection with the R1 interface using valid authentication certificates.
- The tester verifies the mutual certificate verification between Non-RT RIC and rApps.
- The tester captures and analyses the response received from the R1 interface.
- The tester sends a request to establish a connection with the R1 interface with invalid certificates.
- The tester captures and analyses the response received from the R1 interface.
- The tester sends a request to establish a connection without any certificates.
- The tester captures and analyses the response from the R1 interface.
Expected results

For 1) Expected results in clause 6.3

For 2) 'Valid Authentication Certificates': The R1 interface accepts the valid certificates and responds with a successful authentication message. The mutual certificate verification process is successful.

For 3) 'Invalid Authentication Certificates': The connection attempt is rejected, and an authentication failure message is received. The mutual certificate verification process fails due to the use of invalid certificates.

For 4) 'No Authentication Certificates': The connection attempt is rejected, and an authentication failure message is received. The mutual certificate verification process fails due to the absence of certificates.

Expected Format of Evidence:

The following evidence, in one or more formats as applicable, should be provided:

- Logs and screenshots showing adherence to mTLS protocol specifications as defined in [2] clause 4.2.
- Logs of authentication requests and responses on the R1 interface.
- Logs of the mutual certificate verification process.
- Screenshots or logs of error messages or unusual behaviours for both invalid and no certificate scenarios.

### R1 confidentiality, integrity and replay protection

Requirement Name: R1 protection in terms of confidentiality, integrity and replay

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-R1-1, clause 5.2.6.2, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description:

Threat References: T-R1-06, T-R1-07

DUT/s: Non-RT RIC, rApps

Test Name: TC_R1_CONFIDENTIALITY_INTEGRITY_REPLAY

Purpose: To verify the enforcement of security policies over the R1 interface, ensuring that sensitive data remains protected through confidentiality, integrity and replay protection.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- Non-RT RIC & rApps supporting TLS, connected within simulated or real network environments.
- The R1 interface is configured for testing.
- TLS is properly implemented and configured as defined in [2] clause 4.2.
Execution steps

- Establish a secure communication session over the R1 interface.
- Capture the network traffic during the session.
- Analyse the captured traffic to verify that all data is encrypted, ensuring confidentiality.
- Capture protected packets after the TLS handshake.
- Modify the captured packets.
- Inject the modified packets to the DUT.
- Confirm that the DUT discards the injected packets, e.g., does not deliver it to the higher layer.
- Capture protected packets after the TLS handshake.
- Replay the captured packets to the DUT.
- Confirm that the DUT discards the replayed packets.
Expected results

- Confidentiality: All sensitive data transmitted over the R1 interface is encrypted, with no data exposed in clear text.
- Integrity protection: The DUT detects and discards altered packets, ensuring data has not been tampered with.
- Replay protection: The DUT detects and discards replayed packets, preventing replay attacks.
Expected Format of Evidence:

The following evidence, in one or more formats as applicable, should be provided:

- Logs or screenshots showing TLS protocol adherence, as defined in the O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [2] clause 4.2.
- Evidence of secure communication sessions established over the R1 interface, including details of encryption verification.
- Logs or screenshots showing the DUT's response to replayed and integrity-compromised packets, demonstrating the effectiveness of the security mechanisms in place.

### R1 Authorization

Requirement Name: R1 protection in terms of authorization

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-R1-3, clause 5.2.6.2, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description:

Threat References: T-R1-01, T-R1-04, T-R1-05

DUT/s: Non-RT RIC, rApps

Test Name: TC_R1_AUTHORIZATION

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to validate that the R1 interface enforces an authorization mechanism to prevent unauthorized access.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- Non-RT RIC and rApps support OAuth 2.0 and are connected in simulated/real network environment.
- The test environment is set up with R1 interface configured.
- The tester has access to the original data transported over the R1 interface.
- OAuth 2.0 is properly implemented and configured.
Execution steps

- The tester sends a request to access protected resources using a valid access token.
- The tester captures and analyses the response from the R1 interface.
- The tester sends a request to access protected resources using an invalid or incorrect access token.
- The tester captures and analyses the response from the R1 interface.
- The tester sends a request to access protected resources without providing any access token.
- The tester captures and analyses the response from the R1 interface.
Expected Results

For 1) Expected results in clause 6.6

For 2) 'Valid access tokens': The R1 interface accepts the valid access tokens and responds with a successful authorization message.

For 3) 'Invalid access tokens': The access is rejected, and an access failure message is received.

For 4) 'No access tokens': The access is rejected due to the absence of tokens, and an appropriate error or unauthorized access message is received.

Expected Format of Evidence:

The following evidence, in one or more formats as applicable, should be provided:

- Logs of the request sent to access protected resources using valid access tokens.
- Screenshots or logs highlighting the successful authorization message.
- Logs of the request sent to access protected resources using invalid or incorrect access tokens.
- Screenshots or logs showing the rejection of the access and the access failure message.

# Security test of O-RU

This clause contains security tests to validate the security protection mechanism specific to O-RU.

## SSH on M-Plane interface

Requirement Name: Network Security Protocol - SSH

Requirement Reference: Clause 5.4, O-RAN WG4 Management Plane Specification [21]

Requirement Description: Robust protocol implementation with adequately strong cipher suites is being required for SSH

Threat References: T-O-RAN-05

DUT/s: O-RU

Test name: TC_SSH_MPlane

Purpose: To verify implementation of the SSH protocol in O-RU along with validation of supported SSH version and robustness of cryptographic algorithms used for host key, symmetric encryption, key exchange, and MACs as specified in [21]

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

DUT is the O-RU with SSH service enabled as server. Client is a test equipment with SSH audit tool which is used for server-side testing.

Execution steps

Follow the test case in clause 6.2 of the present document.

Expected results

The DUT supports only SSHv2 version with no older version supported and algorithms (for host key, symmetric encryption, key exchange, and MACs) defined in clause 5.4 of [21].

Expected format of evidence: As defined in clause 6.2 of the present document.

## TLS on M-Plane interface

Requirement Name: Network Security Protocol - TLS

Requirement Reference: Clause 5.4, O-RAN WG4 Management Plane Specification [21]

Requirement Description: Support TLS 1.2 and/or TLS 1.3 with protocol profiles

Threat References: T-O-RAN-05

DUT/s: O-RU

Test name: TC_TLS_MPlane

Purpose: To verify implementation of the TLS protocol in O-RU along with validation of mandated/optional TLS versions and cipher suites specified in clause 5.4 of [21]. Since NETCONF implementations support X.509v3 certificate-based authentication using TLS 1.2, mutual authentication is also be tested using both valid and invalid client certificates.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

DUT is the O-RU with TLS service enabled as server equipped with CA cert for signing client certificate(s). Client is a testing equipment with TLS scanning tool with client certificate(s).

Execution steps

Follow the test case in clause 6.3 of the present document.

Expected results

The DUT supports TLS starting from version 1.2 with no older version enabled along with protocol profiles/Cipher suites defined in clause 5.4 of [21].

Expected format of evidence: As defined in clause 6.3 of the present document.

## Security functional requirements and test cases

The 802.1X Supplicant Validation test cases in clause 11.2.2 of the present document apply to O-RU.

# Security test of Near-RT RIC

This clause contains security tests to validate the security protection mechanism specific to Near-RT RIC.

### TLS for transactional APIs

Requirement Name: TLS for transactional APIs

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-6, clause 5.1.3.2.3, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5].

Requirement Description: Transactional APIs (REST and gRPC) support TLS to provide message confidentiality and integrity.

Threat References: T-NEAR-RT-01, T-NEAR-RT-02, T-NEAR-RT-03, T-NEAR-RT-04

DUT/s: xApp, Near-RT RIC

Test name: TC_TLS_APIs

Purpose: To verify the transactional APIs (REST and gRPC) support TLS to provide message confidentiality and integrity.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

DUT is configured and with TLS support enabled.

The other end may be simulated or a testing equipment.

Execution steps

Follow the test case in clause 6.3 of the present document.

Expected results

The transaction APIs provides confidentiality and integrity protection for data in transit.

Expected format of evidence: Tool reports, log files, traffic captures and/or screenshots.

### mTLS for transactional APIs

Requirement Name: mTLS for transactional APIs

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-1, clause 5.1.3.2.1, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5].

Requirement Description: The communication between xApps and Near-RT RIC platform APIs is mutually authenticated.

Threat References: T-NEAR-RT-01, T-NEAR-RT-02, T-NEAR-RT-03, T-NEAR-RT-04

DUT/s: xApp, Near-RT RIC

Test Name: TC_mTLS_APIs

Purpose: To verify the transactional APIs (REST and gRPC) support mutual TLS (mTLS) authentication via X.509v3 certificates.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

Applicability: DUTs that support mTLS as a mutual authentication mechanism.

DUT is configured and with mTLS support enabled. The other end may be simulated or a testing equipment.

Execution steps

Follow the test case in clause 6.3 of the present document.

Expected results

The transactional APIs support mutual TLS (mTLS) authentication.

Expected format of evidence: Tool reports, log files, traffic captures and/or screenshots.

### OAuth 2.0 for transactional APIs

Requirement Name: OAuth 2.0 for transactional APIs

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-3, clause 5.1.3.2.2, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5].

Requirement Description: Near-RT RIC architecture provides an authorization framework.

Threat References: T-NEAR-RT-01, T-NEAR-RT-02, T-NEAR-RT-03, T-NEAR-RT-04

DUT/s: xApp, Near-RT RIC

Test Name: TC_OAuth2.0_API

Purpose: To verify the transactional APIs (REST and gRPC) in the DUT support the OAuth 2.0 authorization framework.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

DUT is configured and with OAuth 2.0 support enabled.

The other end may be simulated or a testing equipment.

Execution steps

Follow the test case in clause 6.6.2 of the present document.

Expected results

The transactional APIs support the use of OAuth 2.0.

Expected format of evidence: Tool reports, log files, traffic captures and/or screenshots.

## Security test of Near-RT RIC OAuth 2.0 Resource Owner/Server

This clause contains security tests to verify OAuth2.0 implementation on Near-RT RIC as resource owner/server for A1-P.

### Near-RT RIC OAuth 2.0 Resource Owner/Server

Requirement Name: Near-RT RIC support as OAuth2.0 resource owner/server

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-4, clause 5.1.3.2.2, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: OAuth 2.0 security controls for Near-RT RIC authorization of service requests

Threat References: T-NEAR-RT-01, T-NEAR-RT-02, T-NEAR-RT-03, T-NEAR-RT-04

DUT/s: Near-RT RIC

Test Name: TC_NearRTRIC_OAuth2.0_Server

Purpose: To validate the Near-RT RIC support as OAuth 2.0 resource owner/server for A1-P, as specified in clause 4.7, O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [2] for service requests received from a Near-RT RIC.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

DUT is acting as a resource owner/server with OAuth 2.0 support enabled. OAuth2.0 Client is the test system equipped to send the service requests over a secured TLS communication with mutual TLS authentication.

Execution steps

Follow the test case in clause 6.6.2 of the present document.

Expected results

The DUT is able to authorize/deny access to resources using OAuth 2.0.

Expected format of evidence: Log files, traffic captures and/or report files.

## Security test of Near-RT RIC OAuth 2.0 client

This clause contains security tests to verify the implementation on Near-RT RIC as OAuth2.0 client for A1-EI.

### Near-RT RIC OAuth 2.0 client

Requirement Name: Near-RT RIC support as OAuth2.0 client for A1-EI

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-5, clause 5.1.3.2.2, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: OAuth 2.0 security controls for Near-RT RIC authorization of service requests

Threat References: T-NEAR-RT-01, T-NEAR-RT-02, T-NEAR-RT-03, T-NEAR-RT-04

DUT/s: Near-RT RIC

Test Name: TC_NearRTRIC_OAuth2.0_Client

Purpose: To validate the Near-RT RIC support as OAuth 2.0 client for A1-EI, as specified in clause 4.7, O-RAN-Security Protocols Specifications [2]

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

DUT is acting as a resource client with OAuth 2.0 support enabled.

Execution steps

Follow the test case in clause 6.6.1 of the present document.

Expected results

The DUT is able to request and be permitted access to resources using OAuth2.0

Expected format of evidence: Log files, traffic captures and/or report files.

# Security test of xApps

This clause contains security tests to validate the security protection mechanism specific to xApps deployed on Near-RT RIC.

## xApp Signing and Verification

The security test cases defined in clause 9.5.2 apply to this clause.

## xAppID

### xApp ID format check

Requirement Name: xApp ID uniqueness check for the xApp instance

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-13, clause 5.1.3.2.5, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: To validate the format of xApp ID string and the uniqueness of the same which will be a Universally Unique Identifier (UUID) version 4 (as described in IETF RFC 9562 [30]).

Threat References: T-NEAR-RT-05

DUT/s: Near-RT RIC

Test Name: TC_xApp_ID_validation

Purpose: To validate the xApp ID format that uniquely identifies the xApp instance. In this test, we are initiating registration requests from 3 xApp instances and validating the response from Near-RT RIC. The xApp ID format is checked against Universally Unique Identifier (UUID) version 4 (as described in IETF RFC 9562 [30]).

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

xApp instances are pre-provisioned with initial registration credential (OAuth 2.0 token), and the xApp instance CSR message.

> NOTE 1:	xApp instances can be instantiated of the same or different xApp images
Execution steps

Expected results

After each execution step, the Registration response from DUT includes the xApp certificate for the xApp instance. The field "Subject Alternative Name" in the xApp instance certificate contains URI for the xApp ID as an URN. This URI contains the xApp ID of the different xApp instances.

The xApp ID generated in SAN field of xApp instance certificate after each execution step is unique and randomly different from the others (i.e., the UUIDs do not reflect a counter-based increment).

The assigned xApp ID format is complaint with Universally Unique Identifier (UUID) version 4 (as described in IETF RFC 9562 [30]. Section 6.9 "Unguessability" in IETF RFC 9562 states "Implementations SHOULD utilize a cryptographically secure pseudorandom number generator (CSPRNG) to provide values that are both difficult to predict ("unguessable") and have a low likelihood of collision ("unique").").

> NOTE 2:	the certificate details could be seen with the openssl tool
Expected format of evidence: Log files, traffic captures, report files, certificates and/or screenshots.

### xApp ID in xApp instance Certificate

Requirement Name: xApp ID presence in "Subject Alternative Name" field of the xApp instance certificate.

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-NEAR-RT-14, clause 5.1.3.2.5, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: "Subject Alternative Name" in the xApp instance certificate contains URI for the xApp ID as an URN. This URI contains the xApp ID of the xApp instance using the UUID format as described in IETF RFC 9562 [30].

Threat References: T-xApp-02, T-NEAR-TR-05

DUT/s: Near-RT RIC

Test Name: TC_xApp_ID_check_in_xApp_instance_certificate

Purpose: To check the xApp ID embedded in subject Alternate Name field of xApp instance certificate.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

xApp image is available for instantiation.

xApp Registration procedure is successfully done and xApp instance certificate has been assigned to xApp as part of the Registration response.

Execution steps

Expected results

The "Subject Alternative Name" contained in the certificate of the xApp instance, contains URI for the xApp ID as an URN. xApp ID of the xApp instance is conformant to UUID format as described in IETF RFC 9562 [30].

Expected format of evidence: Log files, traffic captures, screenshots, certificates and/or report files.

# Security test of Non-RT RIC

This clause contains security tests to validate the security protection mechanism specific to Non-RT RIC and the R1 and A1 interfaces. Security test cases for rApps are covered in a separate sub-clause.

## Non-RT RIC

### Non-RT RIC OAuth 2.0 Resource Owner/Server

Requirement Name: Server authorization support

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-NonRTRIC-1, clause 5.1.2.2, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: Non-RT RIC supports OAuth 2.0 as a Server

Threat References: T-NONRTRIC-01, T-NONRTRIC-02, T-NONRTRIC-03

DUT/s: Non-RT RIC

Test Name: TC_NonRTRIC_OAuth2.0_Server

Purpose: To verify the Non-RT RIC supports OAuth 2.0 resource owner/server for A1-EI.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

The DUT is acting as a Resource Owner/Server and has OAuth 2.0 support enabled.

The rest of the elements of the setup may be real or simulated.

Execution steps

Follow the test case in clause 6.6.2 of the present document.

Expected results

The DUT is able to authorize/deny access to resources using OAuth 2.0.

Expected format of evidence: Log files, traffic captures and/or report files.

### Non-RT RIC OAuth 2.0 Client

Requirement Name: Client authorization support

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-NonRTRIC-2, clause 5.1.2.2, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: Non-RT RIC supports OAuth 2.0 as a Client

Threat References: T-NONRTRIC-01, T-NONRTRIC-02, T-NONRTRIC-03

DUT/s: Non-RT RIC

Test Name: TC_NonRTRIC_OAuth2.0_Client

Purpose: To verify the Non-RT RIC supports OAuth 2.0 client for A1-P.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

The DUT is acting as a Client and has OAuth 2.0 support enabled.

The rest of the elements of the setup may be real or simulated.

Execution steps

Follow the test case in clause 6.6.1 of the present document.

Expected results

The DUT is able to request and be permitted access to resources using OAuth 2.0.

Expected format of evidence: Log files, traffic captures and/or report files.

### Non-RT RIC Framework OAuth 2.0

Requirement Name: Framework Server authorization support

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-NonRTRIC-4, SEC-CTL-NonRTRIC-5, clause 5.1.2.2, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: Non-RT RIC Framework supports OAuth 2.0 as a Server

Threat References: T-NONRTRIC-01, T-NONRTRIC-02, T-NONRTRIC-03

DUT/s: Non-RT RIC

Test Name: TC_NonRTRIC_OAuth2.0_Framework_Server

Purpose: To verify the Non-RT RIC Framework supports OAuth 2.0 as a resource owner/server.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

The DUT is acting as a Resource Owner and has OAuth 2.0 support enabled.

The rest of the elements of the setup may be real or simulated.

Execution steps

Follow the test case in clause 6.6.2 of the present document.

Expected results

The DUT is able to authorize access to resources using OAuth 2.0.

Expected format of evidence: Log files, traffic captures and/or report files.

## R1 interface

Void

## A1 interface

Void

# Security test of rApps

This clause contains security tests to validate the security protection mechanism specific to rApps deployed on Non-RT RIC.

## rApp Signing and Verification

The security test cases defined in clause 9.5.2 apply to this clause.

## rApp Authorization

### rApp OAuth 2.0 Client

Requirement Name: rApp OAuth2.0 Client support

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-NonRTRIC-6, clause 5.1.2.2, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: rApps provide client authorization requests to the Non-RT RIC Framework.

Threat References: T-rAPP-04

DUT/s: rApps

Test Name: TC_OAuth2.0_rApp

Purpose: To verify the rApp supports OAuth 2.0 client capabilities.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

The DUT is acting as an OAuth2.0 Client with OAuth 2.0 support enabled.

The rest of the elements of the setup may be real or simulated.

Execution steps

Follow the test case in clause 6.6.1 of the present document.

Expected results

The DUT is able to request access and be permitted access to resources using OAuth 2.0.

Expected format of evidence: Log files, traffic captures and/or report files.

# Security test of SMO

This clause contains security tests to validate security protection mechanisms related to the SMO.	The test cases validate the security of SMO termination of O1 interfaces, SMO, SMO Services (SMOS) Communications, SMO External Interfaces, and SMO Logging are secured to zero trust principles for confidentiality, integrity, authentication, and authorization. Definitions for the O-RAN terms SMO Service (SMOS), SMO Function (SMOF), SMO External Interfaces, and SMO External System are provided in [1].

The test cases apply to the normative security requirements specified in [5] based upon the following approved security architecture:

The SMO enforces confidentiality, integrity and authenticity through an encrypted transport for the O1 interface and supports least privilege access control using the network configuration access control model (NACM) for authorization.

The SMO supports mutual authentication and authorization of SMO Functions (SMOF) and External Interfaces.

SMO Internal Communications provide communication and services between the SMO, SMOFs, Non-RT RIC Functions, and rApps. SMO Internal Communications shall provide confidentiality and integrity protection of data in transit and shall support mutual authentication and authorization for access to services and resources.

SMO External Interfaces provide import of AI enrichment data from external data sources to the SMO. SMO External Interfaces shall provide confidentiality and integrity protection of data in transit and shall support mutual authentication and authorization for access to services and resources.

## SMO

### SMO OAuth 2.0 Resource Owner/Server

Requirement Name: SMO supports OAuth 2.0 resource owner/server role

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-SMO-3, clause 5.1.1.2.1, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: OAuth 2.0 security controls for SMO to authorize service requests from SMO Functions.

Threat References: T-SMO-02, T-SMO-05

DUT/s: SMO, SMO Functions

Test Name: TC_SMO_OAuth2.0_Resource_Owner_Server

Purpose: To verify that the SMO supports OAuth 2.0 resource owner/server capabilities.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

DUT is the SMO with OAuth 2.0 support enabled.

Execution steps

Follow the test case in clause 6.6.2 of the present document.

Expected results

The DUT is able to authorize/deny access requests received from SMO Functions using OAuth 2.0.

Expected format of evidence: Log entries, packet captures, and screenshots.

### SMO OAuth 2.0 Client

Requirement Name: SMO supports OAuth 2.0 client functionality

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-SMO-4, clause 5.1.1.2.1, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: OAuth 2.0 security controls for SMO to support client functionality for service requests to other SMO Functions

Threat References: T-SMO-02, T-SMO-05

DUT/s: SMO

Test Name: TC_SMO_OAuth2.0_Client

Purpose: To verify the SMO supports OAuth 2.0 client capabilities.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

DUT is the SMO with OAuth 2.0 support enabled.

Execution steps

Follow the test case in clause 6.6.1 of the present document.

Expected results

The DUT is able to request and be permitted/denied access to resources using OAuth 2.0.

Expected format of evidence: Log entries, packet captures, and screenshots.

### SMO mTLS for mutual authentication

Requirement Name: SMO support for mutual authentication of SMO Functions using mTLS

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-SMO-5, clause 5.1.1.2.1, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: SMO support mTLS for mutual authentication with SMO Functions.

Threat References: T-SMO-01, T-SMO-04

DUT/s: SMO

Test Name: TC_SMO_mTLS

Purpose: To verify the SMO supports mutual authentication with SMO Functions using mTLS, with PKI and X.509 certificates.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

DUT is the SMO with mTLS support enabled. An external OAuth 2.0 Authorization Server is available and configured.

Execution steps

Follow the test case in clause 6.3 of the present document.

Expected results

The DUT supports mutual authentication of SMO Functions using mTLS.

Expected format of evidence: Log entries, packet captures, and screenshots.

## SMO Internal Communications

### TLS for SMO Internal Communications

Requirement Name: TLS support for protection at transport layer between SMO Functions

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-SMO-Internal-1, clause 5.1.1.2.2, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: Data in transit protection with TLS for SMO Internal Communications

Threat References: T-SMO-09

DUT/s: SMO, Non-RT RIC

Test Name: TC_SMO_TLS_Internal_Communications

Purpose: To verify the SMO supports TLS on SMO Internal Communications.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

DUT is the SMO with TLS support enabled.

Execution steps

Follow the test case in clause 6.3 of the present document.

Expected results

The SMO Internal Communications provide confidentiality and integrity protection using TLS for data in transit.

Expected format of evidence: Log entries, packet captures, and screenshots.

### mTLS for SMO Internal Communications – SMO Functions

Requirement Name: mTLS support for mutual authentication between SMO Functions

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-SMO-Internal-2, clause 5.1.1.2.2, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: Mutual authentication with mTLS for SMO Internal Communications

Threat References: T-SMO-01, T-SMO-04

DUT/s: SMO

Test Name: TC_SMO_mTLS_Internal_Communications

Purpose: To verify SMO Functions support mutual authentication using mTLS, with PKI and X.509 certificates, for SMO Internal Communications.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

DUT is the SMO Function with mTLS support enabled.

Execution steps

Follow the test case in clause 6.3 of the present document.

Expected results

The DUT supports mutual authentication using mTLS.

Expected format of evidence: Log entries, packet captures, and screenshots.

## SMO External Interfaces

### TLS for SMO External Interfaces

Requirement Name: SMO External Interfaces support for TLS

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-SMO-External-1, clause 5.1.1.2.3, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: Data in transit protection with TLS on SMO External Interfaces

Threat References: T-SMO-09

DUT/s: SMO

Test Name: TC_SMO_TLS_External_Interfaces

Purpose: To verify the SMO supports TLS on SMO External Interface.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

DUT is the SMO with TLS support enabled.

Execution steps

Follow the test case in clause 6.3 of the present document.

Expected results

The DUT’s External Interface provides confidentiality and integrity protection using TLS for data in transit.

Expected format of evidence: Log entries, packet captures, and screenshots.

### mTLS for SMO External Interfaces

Requirement Name: SMO External Interfaces support for mTLS

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-SMO-External-2, clause 5.1.1.2.3, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: Mutual authentication with mTLS on SMO External Interfaces

Threat References: T-SMO-01, T-SMO-04

DUT/s: SMO

Test Name: TC_SMO_mTLS_External_Interfaces

Purpose: To verify the SMO supports mutual authentication using mTLS, with PKI and X.509 certificates for SMO External Interfaces.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

DUT is the SMO with mTLS support enabled.

Execution steps

Follow the test case in clause 6.3 of the present document.

Expected results

The DUT supports mutual authentication of SMO Functions using mTLS for SMO External Interfaces.

Expected format of evidence: Log entries, packet captures, and screenshots.

### SMO Framework OAuth 2.0 Resource Owner/Server for External Interface

Requirement Name: SMO External Interfaces support for OAuth 2.0 resource owner/server role

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-SMO-External-3, clause 5.1.1.2.3, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: SMO supports OAuth 2.0 resource owner/server role to authorize service requests from external systems

Threat References: T-SMO-02, T-SMO-05

DUT/s: SMO

Test Name: TC_SMO_OAuth2.0_Resource_Owner_Server_External_Interface

Purpose: To verify the SMO supports OAuth 2.0 resource owner/server capabilities for SMO External Interfaces.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

DUT is the SMO with OAuth 2.0 support enabled. An external OAuth 2.0 Authorization Server is available and configured.

Execution steps

Follow the test case in clause 6.6.2 of the present document.

Expected results

The DUT is able to authorize/deny access requests received from an external system using OAuth 2.0.

Expected format of evidence: Log entries, packet captures, and screenshots.

### SMO Functions OAuth 2.0 Client

Requirement Name: SMO External Interfaces support for OAuth 2.0 client functionality

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-SMO-External-4, clause 5.1.1.2.3, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: SMO support as OAuth 2.0 client for service requests to external systems

Threat References: T-SMO-02, T-SMO-05

DUT/S: SMO

Test Name: TC_SMO_OAuth2.0_Client_External_Interface

Purpose: To verify if the SMO supports OAuth 2.0 client capabilities for External Interfaces.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

DUT is the SMO with OAuth 2.0 support enabled. An external OAuth 2.0 Authorization Server is available and configured.

Execution steps

Follow the test case in clause 6.6.1 of the present document.

Expected results

The DUT is be able to request and be permitted/denied access to external resources using OAuth 2.0.

Expected format of evidence: Log entries, packet captures, and screenshots.

## SMO Logging

### TLS for SMO Logging Export

Requirement Name: SMO log export support for TLS via SMO External Interface

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-SMO-Log-1, clause 5.1.1.2.4, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: TLS support for SMO Logging Export

Threat References: T-SMO-16

DUT/s: SMO

Test Name: TC_SMO_TLS_Logging_Export

Purpose: To verify the SMO supports TLS for SMO logging export.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

DUT is the SMO with TLS support enabled.

Execution steps

Follow the test case in clause 6.3 of the present document.

Expected results

The DUT provides confidentiality and integrity protection for logging export.

Expected format of evidence: Log entries, packet captures, and screenshots.

### mTLS for SMO Logging Export

Requirement Name: mTLS support on SMO logging export

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-SMO-Log-3, clause 5.1.1.2.4, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: SMO log export support for mutual authentication using mTLS with public key infrastructure (PKI) with X.509v3 certificates

Threat References: T-SMO-01

DUT/s: SMO

Test Name: TC_SMO_mTLS_Logging_Export

Purpose: To verify the SMO supports mutual authentication using mTLS, with PKI and X.509 certificates, for SMO logging export.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

DUT is the SMO with mTLS support enabled.

Execution steps

Follow the test case in clause 6.3 of the present document.

Expected results

The DUT supports mutual authentication using mTLS for SMO logging export.

Expected format of evidence: Log entries, packet captures, and screenshots.

# Security test of O-Cloud

This clause contains security tests to validate the security protection mechanism specific to O-Cloud hosting the O-RAN architecture elements/system.

## O-Cloud virtualization layer

### Secure authentication (positive case)

Requirement Name: Secure authentication to O-Cloud APIs

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-1, clause 5.1.8.1.1, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: Authentication for accessing management interfaces of the O-Cloud Platform

Threat References: T-VM-C-01, T-VM-C-02, T-VM-C-03, T-VM-C-04, T-VM-C-05, T-VM-C-06

DUT/s: O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_OCloud_Secure_Authentication_Positive

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to ensure secure authentication to O-Cloud APIs.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- O-Cloud authentication mechanism is enabled.
- Valid credentials are available for authentication.
Execution steps

Attempt to access O-Cloud APIs with valid authentication credentials:

- Send an API request with valid authentication credentials.
- Capture the response received, including the status code and response body.
- Verify that the API response returns a success status code.
Expected results

The API response returns a success status code.

Expected Format of Evidence:

Logs containing the requests to the DUT and the responses from the DUT.

### Secure authentication (negative case)

Requirement Name: Secure authentication to O-Cloud APIs

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-1, clause 5.1.8.1.1, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: Authentication for accessing management interfaces of the O-Cloud Platform

Threat References: T-VM-C-01, T-VM-C-02, T-VM-C-03, T-VM-C-04, T-VM-C-05, T-VM-C-06

DUT/s: O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_OCloud_Secure_Authentication_Negative

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to intentionally validate the behaviour of the authentication mechanism when encountering invalid or unauthorized authentication credentials.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

O-Cloud authentication mechanism is enabled.

Execution steps

Attempt to access O-Cloud APIs with invalid authentication credentials:

- Send an API request with invalid authentication credentials.
- Capture the response received, including the status code and response body.
- Verify that the API response returns an authentication failure status code.
Expected results

The API response returns an authentication failure status code.

Expected Format of Evidence:

Logs containing the requests to the DUT and the responses from the DUT.

### Secure authorization (positive case)

Requirement Name: Secure authorization for accessing O-Cloud APIs

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-2, clause 5.1.8.1.1, SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-1, clause 5.1.8.1.2, SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-ISO-3, clause 5.1.8.4.3, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: O-Cloud ensures authorized management access and enforce least privilege

Threat References: T-VM-C-01, T-VM-C-02, T-VM-C-03, T-VM-C-04, T-VM-C-05, T-VM-C-06

DUT/s: O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_OCloud_Secure_Authorization_Positive

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to verify that the authorization mechanism for accessing O-Cloud APIs is functioning correctly, ensuring that entities have appropriate permissions to perform specific actions on O-Cloud resources.

Procedure and execution steps

> NOTE:	Entities include Applications, SMO and O-Cloud software components.
Preconditions

- Valid authentication credentials.
- O-Cloud access control system is enabled containing different levels of permissions assigned to entities.
Execution steps

- Use valid authentication credentials to establish a connection with the O-Cloud API.
- Construct a valid API request to perform a specific action,
- Ensure that the requested action aligns with the entity's assigned permissions.
- Send the request to the O-Cloud API endpoint.
- Verify that the API response returns a success status code indicating the action was successfully executed.
Expected results

The API response returns a success status code, confirming that the requested action was authorized and executed successfully.

Expected Format of Evidence:

Logs containing the requests to the DUT and the responses from the DUT.

### Secure authorization (negative case)

Requirement Name: Secure authorization for accessing O-Cloud APIs

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-2, clause 5.1.8.1.1, SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-1, clause 5.1.8.1.2, SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-ISO-3, clause 5.1.8.4.3, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: O-Cloud ensures authorized management access and enforce least privilege

Threat References: T-VM-C-01, T-VM-C-02, T-VM-C-03, T-VM-C-04, T-VM-C-05, T-VM-C-06

DUT/s: O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_OCloud_Secure_Authorization_Negative

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to intentionally validate the behaviour of the authorization mechanism when encountering unauthorized or invalid access attempts.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- Valid authentication credentials.
- O-Cloud access control system is enabled containing different levels of permissions assigned to entities.
Execution steps

- Use valid authentication credentials to establish a connection with the O-Cloud API.
- Construct a valid API request to perform a specific action that exceeds the entity's assigned permissions,
- Send the request to the O-Cloud API endpoint.
- Verify that the API response returns a failure status code indicating the action was unauthorized.
Expected results

The API response returns a failure status code, indicating that the requested action was unauthorized.

Expected Format of Evidence:

Logs containing the requests to the DUT and the responses from the DUT.

### Validate network connections allowed by network policies

Requirement Name: Isolation & secure communication between Applications

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-ISO-6, clause 5.1.8.4.2, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: O-Cloud enforces network policies that allow permitted connections.

Threat References: T-VM-C-01, T-VM-C-02, T-VM-C-03, T-VM-C-04, T-VM-C-05, T-VM-C-06

DUT/s: O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_OCloud_Connection_Allowed_Policies

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to ensure that network connections between VMs/Containers allowed by network policies are successfully established.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

O-Cloud with network policies is configured to allow specific VMs/Containers to VMs/Containers communication.

Execution steps

Expected results

The network connection from VM/Container A to VM/Container B is successfully established, indicating that the network policies allow the communication between the VMs/Containers.

Expected Format of Evidence:

Logs containing the requests to the DUT and the responses from the DUT.

### Validate network connections not allowed by network policies

Requirement Name: Isolation & secure communication between Applications

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-ISO-6, clause 5.1.8.4.2, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: O-Cloud enforces network policies that allow permitted connections.

Threat References: T-VM-C-01, T-VM-C-02, T-VM-C-03, T-VM-C-04, T-VM-C-05, T-VM-C-06

DUT/s: O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_OCloud_Connection_Not_Allowed_Policies

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to ensure that network connections between VMs/Containers not allowed by network policies are blocked.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

O-Cloud with network policies is configured to deny specific VM/Container to VM/Container communication.

Execution steps

Expected results

The network connection from VM/Container A to VM/Container B is blocked, indicating that the network policies correctly deny the communication between the VMs/Containers.

Expected Format of Evidence:

Logs containing the requests to the DUT and the responses from the DUT.

### Validate network connections from outside the allowed network ranges

Requirement Name: Isolation & secure communication between Applications

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-ISO-6, clause 5.1.8.4.2, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: O-Cloud enforces network policies that allow permitted connections.

Threat References: T-VM-C-01, T-VM-C-02, T-VM-C-03, T-VM-C-04, T-VM-C-05, T-VM-C-06

DUT/s: O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_OCloud_Connection_Allowed_Outside

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to ensure that network connections from IP addresses outside the allowed network ranges are denied.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

O-Cloud with network policies is configured to restrict access based on IP ranges.

Execution steps

Expected results

Access attempts from outside the allowed IP ranges is denied, and the response or output indicates a connection failure.

Expected Format of Evidence:

Logs containing the requests to the DUT and the responses from the DUT.

### Exploitation of O-Cloud component vulnerabilities

Requirement Name: O-Cloud hardening and secure configuration.

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-SYS-1, clause 5.3.6.1, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: Known vulnerabilities in the software of an O-RAN architecture element are identified

Threat References: T-O-RAN-02, T-VM-C-01, T-VM-C-05

DUT/s: O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_OCloud_Vulnerability_Scanning

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to identify and assess the presence of vulnerabilities in O-Cloud components and evaluate the effectiveness of their mitigation measures.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- O-Cloud with various O-Cloud components deployed.
- O-Cloud with security best practices is implemented.
Execution steps

Expected results

For step 1), no known vulnerabilities exist in the O-Cloud

For step 2), mitigation measures, such as applying security patches or configuration changes are implemented to address known vulnerabilities.

For step 3), Exploit attempts fails to compromise the O-Cloud.

Expected Format of Evidence:

Logs containing the requests to the DUT and the responses from the DUT.

### Identification and remediation of insecure configuration settings

Requirement Name: O-Cloud hardening and secure configuration

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-O-CLOUD-ISO-7, Clause 5.1.8.4.2, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: The O-Cloud Platform does not permit configuration change of any component without proper authorization

Threat References: T-O-RAN-02, T-VM-C-01, T-VM-C-05

DUT/s: O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_OCloud_Insecure_Configuration

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to identify insecure configuration settings in the O-Cloud and verify the effectiveness of remediation measures.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

O-Cloud with a configuration review and hardening process in place.

Execution steps

Expected results

- The O-Cloud configuration is hardened and securely configured to mitigate common security misconfigurations.
- Insecure scenarios are identified and remediated, ensuring a hardened O-Cloud. If insecure scenarios are rectified, testing has to be repeated.
Expected Format of Evidence:

Logs containing the requests to the DUT and the responses from the DUT.

### Validation of logging and monitoring for security incidents

Requirement Name: logging and monitoring for security incidents

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-O2dms-4, clause 5.1.8.9.1.1, REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-O2ims-4, clause 5.1.8.9.1.2, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: O-Cloud DMS and IMS log SMO's management operations for auditing.

Threat References: T-GEN-01, T-GEN-02, T-GEN-03, T-GEN-04, T-GEN-05, T-GEN-06

DUT/s: O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_OCloud_Security_Logs

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to validate logging and monitoring for security incidents.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- An O-Cloud is deployed and operational
- A logging and monitoring system is implemented and configured to capture and analyse security events.
Execution steps

- Attempt to perform unauthorized API requests or access O-Cloud resources without appropriate permissions.
- Mimic a compromised Application by running malicious code or attempting privilege escalation.
- Monitor the O-Cloud and capture any signs of security incidents being logged or detected.
- Configure the logging and monitoring systems to capture relevant security events, such as failed authentication attempts, privilege escalation, or anomalous Application behaviour.
- Monitor the O-Cloud in real-time or periodically to detect the simulated security incidents.
- Verify that the monitoring system generates alerts or notifications for detected security events.
Expected results

- For the first step, unauthorized access attempts and Application compromise attempts are captured as security events in the logs.
- For the second step, the monitoring system detects and generates alerts for the simulated security incidents.
Expected Format of Evidence:

Logs containing the requests to the DUT and the responses from the DUT.

### O-Cloud Privilege Escalation Prevention

Requirement Name: O-Cloud privilege escalation prevention

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-ISO-1, REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-ISO-3, clause 5.1.8.4.2, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: O-Cloud prevents unauthorized privilege escalation

Threat References: T-VM-C-01

DUT/s: O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_OCloud_Privilege_Escalation_Prevention

Purpose: To verify that privilege escalation is effectively prevented in O-Cloud by enforcing security policies.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions:

O-Cloud with security policies (EXAMPLE: Kubernetes cluster with PodSecurity admission (PSA)) configured and enforced.

Execution steps:

Expected results:

For step 1: The VM or Container creation request is denied by the O-Cloud API server.

For step 2: The O-Cloud API server logs should show a message indicating a violation of the security policies.

Expected format of evidence:

- Screenshot: Displaying the API server's response to the VM or Container creation attempt.
- Executed Commands: Details of the VM or Container creation parameters and security context used.
- API Server Logs: Messages indicating a violation of security policies.
- Conclusion Logs: Indicating whether the test passed or failed based on expected results.

### O-Cloud mutual authentication

Requirement Name: O-Cloud mutual authentication between applications

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-O-CLOUD-ISO-1, clause 5.1.8.4.3, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: O-Cloud ensures mTLS authentication is enforced

Threat References: T-GEN-04

DUT/s: O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_OCLOUD_MUTUAL_AUTHENTICATION

Purpose: To verify that communication between different applications running on the O-Cloud is secured through mutual TLS (mTLS) authentication.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions:

- Environment: An O-Cloud is set up with two or more deployed applications
- mTLS configuration: Deployed applications in the O-Cloud are configured with mTLS as defined in [2] clause 4.2.
- Tools setup: Network sniffers, packet capture and TLS inspection tools are deployed to monitor and verify TLS handshake process.
- Valid, expired, and revoked certificates are prepared for testing. Ensure that the infrastructure for checking revoked certificates (CRL/OCSP server) is operational and accessible to the applications.
Execution steps:

- Initiate mTLS-secured sessions between applications and capture the TLS handshake process.
- Validate the exchange and authentication of certificates using TLS inspection tools.
Expected results:

- mTLS sessions are successfully established only with valid certificates.
- mTLS session establishment with expired certificates fails.
- mTLS session establishment with revoked certificates fails.
- Any attempt to initiate an unauthenticated session (without presenting a certificate) is rejected.
Expected format of evidence:

Logs from network sniffers, packet captures and TLS inspection tools showing:

- Successful mTLS handshakes with valid certificates.
- Rejections due to expired certificates, ensuring the application appropriately identifies and handles certificates beyond their validity period.
- Rejections due to revoked certificates, with specific emphasis on the application's process for recognizing revoked certificates through mechanisms such as CRL (Certificate Revocation List) and OCSP (Online Certificate Status Protocol) queries.
- Rejection of unauthenticated sessions, demonstrating the system's enforcement of mTLS authentication by not allowing sessions without certificate authentication.

### O-Cloud authorization

Requirement Name: O-Cloud authorization

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-2, clause 5.1.8.1.1, SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-1, clause 5.1.8.1.2, SEC-CTL-O-CLOUD-ISO-3, clause 5.1.8.4.3, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: O-Cloud enforces access control, ensuring only authorized actions per least privilege

Threat References: T-GEN-04

DUT/s: O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_OCLOUD_AUTHORIZATION

Purpose: To verify that authorization policies are correctly enforced according to the least privilege principle.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions:

- Environment: An O-Cloud is set up with two or more applications
- Access control configuration: Access control policies are defined and applied to applications, ensuring permissions are scoped to the minimum necessary privileges.
- Tools setup: auditing tools are deployed to monitor and verify access control policies.
Execution steps:

- Map out the actions each application can perform on another according to the access control policies.
- Perform an action that is allowed by the access control policy and record the outcomes. Validate that permitted actions align with the mapped policies.
- Attempt actions that are not permitted by the access control policies and record the outcomes.
Expected results:

- All actions that are explicitly granted by the access control policies are successfully performed without errors. Audit logs reflect the correct enforcement of these policies.
- Any attempts to perform actions outside the scope of granted permissions are denied, with audit logs accurately recording these access denials in accordance with the access control policies.
Expected format of evidence:

Detailed logs capturing:

- Allowed actions, correlating with the defined access control policies.
- Denied actions, specifically those attempted outside the granted permissions, highlighting the effective enforcement of access control policies.

## Application deployment by O-Cloud

### Verification of Application artifacts with valid signature by O-Cloud during deployment

The security test cases defined in clause 9.5.2 apply to this clause.

### Verification of Application artifacts with incorrect signature by O-Cloud during deployment

The security test cases defined in clause 9.5.2 apply to this clause.

## Resource Management and enforcement in O-Cloud

### O-Cloud Resource Consumption Limit Enforcement

Requirement Name: Resource Management and enforcement in O-Cloud

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-LCM-SD-5 to REQ-SEC-LCM-SD-6, clause 5.3.2.3.1, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: The NFO compares an Application’s resource consumption with the defined quotas from the Application descriptor and enforces limits. If the resource consumption exceeds the defined quotas, the NFO generates an alarm to notify the SMO.

Threat References: T-VM-C-05, T-AppLCM-04, T-AppLCM-05

DUT/s: SMO (NFO)

Test Name: TC_OCloud_Resource_Consumption_Limit_Enforcement

Purpose: To verify the DUT is able to ensure that resources (CPU, memory, etc.) consumed by VMs or Containers are within the defined limits, preventing any single application from monopolizing the system's resources.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions:

- O-Cloud environment with resource quotas and limits enforced.
- A configured SMO to set and enforce resource quotas and limits.
Execution steps:

- Create a dedicated isolated environment for testing.
- Define a resource quota for the environment, specifying the maximum allowed CPU and memory.
- Define a limit range to set default request and limit values for resources.
- Create a VM or Container configuration that requests resources exceeding the set limits.
- Try to deploy the VM or Container in the test environment.
- Check the deployment status of the VM or Container.
- Check NFO logs for an alarm when a resource limit is exceeded.
Expected results:

For step 1: Confirmation that a dedicated isolated environment for testing has been setup and both resource quota and limit range have been established.

For step 2: The deployment request for the VM or Container is denied or remains in a "Pending" or equivalent state.

For step 3: Logs or descriptions should show a message indicating a violation of the resource quotas or limits.

Expected format of evidence:

- Configuration Details: Information on the set resource quotas and limit ranges, including the maximum allowed CPU and memory.
- Executed Commands: Details of the VM or Container creation parameters, specifically the requested resources.
- NFO Logs: Messages indicating any violations of the resource quotas or limits during the deployment attempt.
- Deployment Status: Logs or screenshots showing the status of the VM or Container deployment, especially if it’s denied or remains in a "Pending" state due to resource constraints.
- Create a namespace: kubectl create namespace test-limits
- Apply a ResourceQuota and LimitRange as previously detailed.
- Create a pod configuration (resource-hog-pod.yaml) that requests excessive resources.
- Deploy using: kubectl apply -f resource-hog-pod.yaml
- Check pod status: kubectl get pods -n test-limits
- Describe the pod for details: kubectl describe pod resource-hog -n test-limits

### O-Cloud Storage Volume Limit Enforcement

Requirement Name: Resource Management and enforcement in O-Cloud

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-LCM-SD-5, clause 5.3.2.3.1, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: The NFO compares an Application’s resource consumption with the defined quotas from the Application descriptor and enforces limits. If the resource consumption exceeds the defined quotas, the NFO generates an alarm to notify the SMO.

Threat References: T-VM-C-05, T-AppLCM-04, T-AppLCM-05

DUT/s: SMO (NFO)

Test Name: TC_OCloud_Storage_Volume_Limit_Enforcement

Purpose: To verify the DUT is able to limit the storage volume allocations for applications predefined in a O-Cloud environment.

Procedure and execution steps:

Preconditions:

- O-Cloud environment with storage volume configurations.
- A configured SMO to set and enforce resource quotas for storage.
Execution steps:

- Create a dedicated isolated environment for testing.
- Define a storage volume quota for the environment, specifying the maximum allowed storage volume size.
- Create a configuration that requests a storage volume size exceeding the set limits.
- Deploy the configuration in the test environment.
- Check the status of the storage allocation.
- Monitor the NFO logs for an alarm being generated when a storage quota violation occurs.
Expected results:

For step 1: Confirmation that a dedicated isolated environment for testing has been setup and storage volume quota has been defined.

For step 2: The storage volume allocation request is denied.

For step 3: Logs or descriptions should show a message indicating a violation of the storage quotas.

Expected format of evidence:

- Configuration Details: Information on the set storage volume quotas, including the maximum allowed storage volume size.
- Executed Commands: Details of the storage volume allocation parameters, specifically the requested storage size.
- NFO Logs: Messages indicating any violations of the storage volume quotas during the allocation attempt.
- Allocation Status: Logs or screenshots showing the status of the storage volume allocation, especially if it is denied due to exceeding the set limits.
- Create a namespace: kubectl create namespace test-storage
- Apply a ResourceQuota for storage: apiVersion: v1 kind: ResourceQuota metadata:   name: storage-quota   namespace: test-storage spec:   hard:     requests.storage: 10Gi
- Apply the ResourceQuota: kubectl apply -f storage-quota.yaml
- Create and deploy a PersistentVolumeClaim (PVC) requesting 15Gi.
- Monitor the PVC status and logs.

### O-Cloud CPU Overcommit Prevention

Requirement Name: Resource Management and enforcement in O-Cloud

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-LCM-SD-5 to REQ-SEC-LCM-SD-6, clause 5.3.2.3.1, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: The NFO compares an Application’s resource consumption with the defined quotas from the Application descriptor and enforces limits. If the resource consumption exceeds the defined quotas, the NFO generates an alarm to notify the SMO.

Threat References: T-VM-C-05, T-AppLCM-04, T-AppLCM-05

DUT/s: SMO (NFO)

Test Name: TC_OCloud_CPU_Overcommit_Prevention

Purpose: To verify that the O-Cloud does not overcommit CPU resources, leading to performance degradation or system instability.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions:

- O-Cloud with CPU allocation settings.
- A configured SMO to manage CPU overcommitment.
Execution steps:

- Create a dedicated isolated environment for testing.
- Define CPU overcommit ratios.
- Sequentially deploy applications until the CPU limits are reached based on the overcommit ratios.
- Monitor the CPU utilization of each deployed application.
- Check the deployment status of the applications.
- Monitor CPU utilization metrics.
- Check NFO logs for an alarm when an application exceeds CPU limits.
Expected results:

For step 1: Confirmation that a dedicated isolated environment for testing has been setup and CPU overcommit ratios has been defined.

For step 2: Applications should not be deployed beyond the capacity determined by the CPU overcommit ratios.

For step 3: CPU utilization metrics should remain stable and within acceptable thresholds. NFO generates an alarm when CPU limits are exceeded.

Expected format of evidence:

- Configuration Details: Information on the set CPU overcommit ratios.
- Executed Commands: Details of the application deployments and their respective CPU utilization.
- NFO Logs: Messages indicating any violations of the CPU overcommit ratios during application deployments.
- Deployment Status: Logs or screenshots showing the status of the application deployments, especially if any are denied due to reaching CPU limits.
- CPU Utilization Metrics: Graphs or logs showing the CPU utilization of each deployed application, ensuring they remain within acceptable thresholds.
- Manage CPU overcommitment in Kubernetes by setting CPU requests and limits on Pods.
- Deploy a Pod with a CPU request of ‘500m’ (half a CPU core) and a limit of ‘1’ (one full CPU core).
- Use ‘kubectl describe node <NODE_NAME>’ to view CPU allocation and utilization.
- Monitor CPU metrics using tools like Prometheus.

### O-Cloud Memory Overcommit Prevention

Requirement Name: Resource Management and enforcement in O-Cloud

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-LCM-SD-5 to REQ-SEC-LCM-SD-6, clause 5.3.2.3.1, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: The NFO compares an Application’s resource consumption with the defined quotas from the Application descriptor and enforces limits. If the resource consumption exceeds the defined quotas, the NFO generates an alarm to notify the SMO.

Threat References: T-VM-C-05, T-AppLCM-04, T-AppLCM-05

DUT/s: SMO (NFO)

Test Name: TC_OCloud_Memory_Overcommit_Prevention

Purpose: To verify that the O-Cloud does not overcommit memory resources.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions:

- O-Cloud with memory allocation settings.
- A configured SMO to manage memory overcommitment
Execution steps:

- Create a dedicated isolated environment for testing.
- Define memory overcommit ratios.
- Sequentially deploy applications until memory limits are reached based on the overcommit ratios.
- Monitor memory utilization of each deployed application.
- Check deployment status of the applications.
- Monitor memory utilization metrics.
- Check NFO logs for an alarm when an application exceeds memory limits
Expected results:

For step 1: Confirmation that a dedicated isolated environment for testing has been setup and memory overcommit ratios has been defined.

For step 2: Applications should not be deployed beyond the capacity determined by the memory overcommit ratios.

For step 3: Memory utilization should remain stable and within acceptable thresholds. NFO generates an alarm when memory limits are exceeded.

Expected format of evidence:

- Configuration Details: Information on the set memory overcommit ratios.
- Executed Commands: Details of the application deployments and their respective memory use.
- NFO Logs: Messages indicating any violations of the memory overcommit ratios during application deployments.
- Deployment Status: Logs or screenshots showing the status of the application deployments, especially if any are denied due to reaching memory limits.
- Memory Use Metrics: Graphs or logs showing the memory utilization of each deployed application, ensuring they remain within acceptable thresholds.
- Manage memory overcommitment in Kubernetes by setting memory requests and limits on Pods.
- Deploy a Pod with a memory request of ‘256Mi’ and a limit of ‘512Mi’.
- Use kubectl describe node <NODE_NAME> to view memory allocation and utilization.
- Monitor memory metrics using tools like Prometheus.

### O-Cloud Network Overcommit Prevention

Requirement Name: Resource Management and enforcement in O-Cloud

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-ISO-6, clause 5.1.8.4.2 REQ-SEC-LCM-SD-5 to REQ-SEC-LCM-SD-6, clause 5.3.2.3.1, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description:

Threat References: T-VM-C-05, T-AppLCM-04, T-AppLCM-05

DUT/s: O-Cloud, SMO (NFO)

Test Name: TC_OCloud_Network_Overcommit_Prevention

Purpose: To verify that the O-Cloud environment does not overcommit network bandwidth.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions:

- O-Cloud environment with network configurations.
- Tools to manage network overcommitment.
Execution steps:

- Define network bandwidth overcommit ratios.
- Deploy applications designed to generate high network traffic.
- Monitor network traffic.
- Check network traffic metrics for the applications.
- Check NFO logs for an alarm when an application exceeds network bandwidth limits.
Expected results:

For step 1: Confirmation that network bandwidth overcommit ratios has been defined.

For steps 2 and 3: Applications' network traffic should be throttled or limited once the bandwidth determined by the overcommit ratios is reached. NFO generates an alarm when network limits are exceeded.

Expected format of evidence:

- Configuration Details: Information on the set network bandwidth overcommit ratios.
- Executed Commands: Details of the application deployments and their respective network traffic generation.
- O-Cloud and NFO Logs: Messages indicating any violations of the network overcommit ratios during high network traffic.
- Deployment Status: Logs or screenshots showing the status of the application deployments, especially if network traffic is throttled or limited.
- Network Traffic Metrics: Graphs or logs showing the network traffic of each deployed application, ensuring they remain within the set bandwidth limits.
- Native Kubernetes doesn't offer direct network bandwidth controls. However, third-party plugins like ‘Calico’ or ‘Cilium’ can be used to set network policies that limit bandwidth.
- Deploy a Pod and apply a network policy that limits its bandwidth.
- Use monitoring tools integrated with the network plugin (e.g., ‘calicoctl’ for Calico) to observe the network traffic metrics.

### O-Cloud Storage Overcommit Prevention

Requirement Name: Resource Management and enforcement in O-Cloud

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-LCM-SD-5 to REQ-SEC-LCM-SD-6, clause 5.3.2.3.1, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: The NFO compares an Application’s resource consumption with the defined quotas from the Application descriptor and enforces limits. If the resource consumption exceeds the defined quotas, the NFO generates an alarm to notify the SMO.

Threat References: T-VM-C-05, T-AppLCM-04, T-AppLCM-05

DUT/s: SMO (NFO)

Test Name: TC_OCloud_Storage_Overcommit_Prevention

Purpose: To verify that the O-Cloud does not overcommit storage resources.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions:

- O-Cloud environment with storage configurations.
- A configured SMO to manage Storage overcommitment.
Execution steps:

- Define storage overcommit ratios.
- Deploy applications that request storage space.
- Monitor storage allocation and utilization.
- Check storage metrics for the applications.
- Check NFO logs for an alarm when an application exceeds storage limits.
Expected results:

For step 1: Confirmation that storage overcommit ratios has been defined.

For step 2: Storage allocations do not exceed the capacity determined by the storage overcommit ratios.

For step 3: Storage usage remains stable and within acceptable thresholds. NFO generates an alarm when storage limits are exceeded.

Expected format of evidence:

- Configuration Details: Information on the set storage overcommit ratios.
- Executed Commands: Details of the application deployments and their respective storage requests.
- NFO Logs: Messages indicating any violations of the storage overcommit ratios during storage allocation.
- Deployment Status: Logs or screenshots showing the status of the application deployments, especially if storage allocations are denied or limited.
- Storage usage Metrics: Graphs or logs showing the storage utilization of each deployed application, ensuring they remain within the set storage limits.
- Use PersistentVolumeClaims (PVCs) with specific storage requests. Overcommitment can occur if the total storage requested by PVCs exceeds the actual available storage.
- Deploy a Pod that uses a PVC requesting more storage than available on the PersistentVolume (PV).
- Use ‘kubectl get pvc’ and ‘kubectl get pv’ to monitor storage allocations.
- Monitor storage metrics using tools like Prometheus.

## Secure Update

### O-Cloud Infrastructure Software Package Integrity - Positive

Requirement Name: O-Cloud software images authenticity and Integrity

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-2 to REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-6, REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-16, clause 5.3.2.1.1, SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-1, SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-1B, clause 5.3.2.1.2, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: Ensure Authenticity and Integrity of O-Cloud Software Images

Threat References: T-GEN-01

DUT/s: O-Cloud, SMO

Test Name: TC_OCloud_Software_Package_Integrity

Purpose: To verify the O-Cloud software image authenticity and integrity.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- Signed O-Cloud software package as per Clause 5 of O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [2]
- All necessary artifacts of the O-Cloud software image (public key, digitally signed certificates, signature (Signed hash) encryption key if any for security-sensitive artifacts) are provided.
Execution steps

Expected results

Logs show that the software package integrity check has been executed for the O-Cloud software at each stage

The signature validation for the O-Cloud software image during onboarding are checked and is successful.

Expected format of evidence:

Snapshots captured in SMO logs regarding the Signature verification success.

Logs from SMO and O-Cloud (O2ims logs) to indicate the successful signature verification from the Software Provider.

### O-Cloud Infrastructure Software Package Integrity Failure – Negative

Requirement Name: O-Cloud software images authenticity and Integrity

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-2 to REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-6, REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-16, clause 5.3.2.1.1, SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-1, SEC-CTL-ALM-PKG-1B, clause 5.3.2.1.2, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: Ensure Authenticity and Integrity of O-Cloud Software Images

Threat References: T-GEN-01

DUT/s: O-Cloud, SMO

Test Name: TC_OCloud_Software_Package_Integrity_Failure

Purpose: To verify the O-Cloud software image authenticity and integrity validation failure for invalid O-cloud software image.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- O-Cloud software package obtained from the Software Provider.
- All necessary artifacts of the O-Cloud software image (public key, digitally signed certificates, Signature (signed hash) encryption key if any for security-sensitive artifacts) are provided.
Execution steps

Expected results

Logs show that the software package integrity check has failed.

The O-cloud software image shall not be onboarded due to the software integrity failure.

Expected format of evidence:

Snapshots captured in SMO regarding the signature verification failure.

SMO Logs: Onboarding failure logs to indicate that integrity failure for the O-Cloud software Package.

### Secure Update procedure for O-Cloud Platform – Positive

Requirement Name: Secure update of O-Cloud software at the infrastructure level layer.

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SU-1, REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SU-5, REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SU-7, clause 5.1.8.5.1, SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-SU-4, SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-SU-7, clause 5.1.8.5.2, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: Ensure secure update of O-Cloud Software Images at the Infrastructure level.

Threat References: T-GEN-01

DUT/s: O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_SECURE_UPDATE_OF_O-CLOUD_PLATFORM

Purpose: To verify the secure update procedure for the O-Cloud Infrastructure using verified O-cloud software image.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- Verified O-Cloud software package obtained from Service Provider.
- All necessary artifacts of the O-Cloud software image (public key, digitally signed certificates, encryption key if any for security-sensitive artifacts) shall be provided.
- All necessary documents related to the Upgrade procedure of the O-Cloud components shall be available.
- All necessary dependencies for O-Cloud software packages are considered prior to update.
- All documents related to backward compatibility are made available by the O-Cloud Software provider.
Execution steps

Expected results

The version of the O-Cloud software components is updated to the required version.

Expected format of evidence:

O-Cloud logs: Log captures indicating the Steps performed during the Update.

Snapshot: Executed command on CLI, GUI, API server

SMO Log: Notification on the successful upgrade of the O-Cloud components.

### Secure Update failure and rollback

Requirement Name: Rollback to the previous version on the unsuccessful update of the O-Cloud Platform.

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SU-5, REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SU-6, clause 5.1.8.5.1, SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-SU-6, SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-SU-7, clause 5.1.8.5.2, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: The O-Cloud platform maintains its last verified state if updates fail or incidents occur during update.

Threat References: T-GEN-01

DUT/s: O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_SECURE_UPDATE_FAILURE_OF_O-CLOUD_PLATFORM

Purpose: To verify on failure of secure update procedure for the O-Cloud platform, it rolls back to its last verified state.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- A valid O-Cloud platform software package is available. The version of the package is greater that the stable version running in the O-Cloud platform.
- The O-Cloud platform is running a stable version of its software.
Execution steps

Expected results

The O-Cloud platform automatically rolls back to its previous version and last verified state.

Expected format of evidence:

O-Cloud logs indicating secure update failure detection and rollback.

### Unauthorised Rollback Prevention

Requirement Name: Unauthorized rollback prevention to an earlier vulnerable version

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SU-6, clause 5.1.8.5.1, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: The O-Cloud platform prevents the unauthorized rollback of its software to an earlier vulnerable version.

Threat Reference: T-GEN-01

DUT/s: O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_UPDATE_ROLLBACK_PREVENTION_O-CLOUD_PLATFORM

Purpose: To verify that the O-Cloud platform prevents unauthorized rollback to an earlier vulnerable version of its software, even if the rollback package is correctly signed, while allowing authorized rollback under controlled conditions.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- The O-Cloud platform has a newer software version installed and operational.
- A correctly signed older vulnerable software version is available.
- An incorrectly signed older non-vulnerable software version is also available.
Execution steps

- Initiate a rollback using the correctly signed older vulnerable version of the software.
- Observe if the O-Cloud platform detects and rejects the rollback attempt.
- Initiate an authorized rollback using the correctly signed older version of the software following the approved rollback process.
- Verify that the O-Cloud platform allows rollback in this scenario.
Expected results

For step 1. the platform rejects unauthorized rollback attempts.

For step 2, the platform successfully executes the authorized rollback.

Expected format of evidence

Logs showing:

- Rejection events for unauthorized rollback attempts.
- Authorized rollback initiation and completion logs.
Screenshot showing the version status and error messages.

## Secure Storage

### Sensitive data protection in O-Cloud

Requirement Name: Sensitive data protection in O-Cloud

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-13, clause 5.3.2.1.1, REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-1, clause 5.1.8.6.1, SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-SS-1, clause 5.1.8.6.2, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: The O-Cloud Platform ensures the confidentiality and integrity of sensitive data at rest, in use, and in transit.

Threat References: T-GEN-05

DUT/s: O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_DATA_PROTECTION_OCLOUD

Purpose: To validate that the O-Cloud ensures the integrity and confidentiality of sensitive data at rest, in use, and in transit, using state-of-the-art encryption and security practices.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions:

O-Cloud operational with a simulated deployment of workloads.

Execution steps:

- Store simulated sensitive data (e.g., secrets) in O-Cloud storage.
- Verify encryption using tools designed to check for industry-standard encryption mechanisms, focusing on confirming that data is encrypted to current security standards.
- Process sensitive data using an application.
- Identify write operations involving sensitive data
- Employ process monitoring tools to monitor file I/O operations and capture all write activities.
- Look for write operations to temporary file paths, cache directories or outside of the application secure storage.
- Analyse the context of write operations – are they occurring during a process that handles sensitive data?
- Ensure that the application does not log sensitive information
- Review the application's logging configuration and log output.
- Verify that sensitive data is either not logged or appropriately anonymized/encrypted before being logged.
- Check for the use of secure enclaves, if applicable.
- Initiate data transfer between O-Cloud services.
- Use packet-sniffing tools to capture the data packets.
- Analyse the TLS encrypted data, ensuring TLS is used as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [2], clause 4.2.
Expected Results:

- Sensitive data in O-Cloud storage is encrypted according to current industry standards. Unauthorized access attempts are logged and denied.
- Data processing is secure, with no plaintext data exposure in logs or disk. Secure enclaves are used where relevant.
- All data transfers employ TLS as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [2], clause 4.2.
Expected Format of Evidence:

- Screenshots and logs showing encryption validation and the response to unauthorized access attempts.
- Logs from process monitoring tools demonstrating the handling of sensitive data during processing.
- Packet capture files confirming the data encryption in transit using TLS as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [2], clause 4.2.

### Secure data deletion in O-Cloud

Requirement Name: Secure data deletion in O-Cloud

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-2, clause 5.1.8.6.1, SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-SS-2, SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-SS-3, clause 5.1.8.6.2 O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: The O-Cloud Platform supports secure deletion of data from storage and memory, ensuring that unused or deallocated data is irrecoverable by applying media-specific sanitization techniques and overwriting addressable memory locations with secure patterns.

Threat References: T-GEN-05

DUT/s: O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_DATA_DELETION_OCLOUD

Purpose: To ensure that the O-Cloud platform securely deletes data from addressable memory locations that are no longer in use, by overwriting them with specific binary patterns.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions:

- O-Cloud platform operational with workloads.
- Tools for memory analysis are available.
- File recovery tools for testing data recoverability after deletion.
Execution steps:

- Create files with identifiable data patterns.
- Store these files in the O-Cloud platform's memory or storage system.
- Delete the files using the O-Cloud platform's standard deletion process, which should invoke secure deletion process.
- Inspect the memory or storage locations where the files were stored to confirm that the data has been overwritten.
- Search for both the original data patterns and the specific overwriting patterns (zeroes, ones, random).
- Use data recovery tools to attempt to retrieve the deleted files or any part of them.
- Assess if any of the original data or identifiable patterns can be recovered.
Expected Results:

- Deleted data locations are overwritten with the specified binary patterns.
- File recovery attempts are not able to reconstruct any meaningful data from these locations.
Expected Format of Evidence:

- Logs or screenshots from memory analysis tools showing the overwriting patterns.
- Reports from file recovery tools indicating the failure to recover any meaningful data.

### Data isolation in VM/Container reallocation

Requirement Name: Data isolation in VM/Container reallocation

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-SS-3, clause 5.1.8.6.1, SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-SS-2, clause 5.1.8.6.2, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: The O-Cloud Platform ensures that any data contained in a resource is not accessible when it is de-allocated from one VM/Container and reallocated to another by supporting secure deletion of data in addressable memory locations before reuse.

Threat References: T-GEN-05

DUT/s: O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_DATA_ISOLATION_VM_CONTAINER_OCLOUD

Purpose: To verify that the O-Cloud effectively prevents data contained in a resource (like memory or storage) from being accessible after it is de-allocated from one VM/Container and reallocated to another.

Procedure and execution steps:

Preconditions:

- Set up multiple VMs/Containers within the O-Cloud.
- Tools for analyzing memory and storage content
Execution steps:

- Allocate a dedicated resource (like a disk volume or memory segment) to a VM/Container.
- Store known test data in this resource.
- De-allocate the resource from the first VM/Container.
- Re-allocate the same resource to a different VM/Container.
- Within the new VM/Container, attempt to access any residual data from the previous allocation.
- Use data analysis tools to inspect the resource for traces of the previous data.
- Confirm that no data from the first VM/Container is accessible or present in the resource after re-allocation.
Expected Results:

- No trace of the test data is found in the reallocated resource.
- The new VM/Container doesn’t have access to any residual data from the previous allocation.
Expected Format of Evidence:

Logs or screenshots showing the absence of the test data in the re-allocated resource.

## Chain of trust

### Chain of Trust verification in static O-Cloud SW

Requirement Name: Support of root of trust and integrity verification of static O-Cloud SW (Firmware and BIOS/UEFI, Bootloader, OS kernel)

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-COT-1, clause 5.1.8.7.1, SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-COT-1, SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-COT-2, clause 5.1.8.7.2, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: The O-Cloud Platform supports a Chain of Trust (CoT) by verifying the integrity of all relevant components using a hardware root of trust (RoT) or, where hardware is unavailable, a software root of trust to ensure platform security.

Threat References: T-VL-02

DUT/s: O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_OCLOUD_CHAIN_OF_TRUST_STATIC_SW

Purpose: To confirm the presence and proper functioning of a secure boot process and integrity verification for O-Cloud static SW (Firmware and BIOS/UEFI, Bootloader, OS kernel), using hardware-based or software-based roots of trust mechanisms.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions:

- Ensure the O-Cloud is set up with all components, including hardware, operating system, virtualization layer, and any applications or services running on the O-Cloud.
- Use tools capable of interfacing with the O-Cloud's root of trust mechanism.
- Access requirements: Tester needs administrative access to the O-Cloud platform to execute integrity verification commands and to collect integrity verification reports.
Execution steps:

Hardware RoT verification:

Confirm the functionality of the root of trust mechanism in each O-Cloud node, whether it is hardware-based or an equivalent software-based solution.

Integrity check:

Verify the integrity measurements against known good baselines. These measurements ensure the boot process and static O-Cloud SW integrity.

Report collection and analysis:

Collect integrity reports and analyse them for discrepancies or signs of tampering.

Expected Results:

- All O-Cloud nodes demonstrate the presence of RoT.
- Integrity measurements align with known good baselines.
Expected Format of Evidence:

- Logs confirming RoT presence on each node.
- Logs indicating successful integrity verification against known good baselines.

### Chain of Trust verification of dynamic O-Cloud SW

Requirement Name: Support of root of trust and integrity verification of dynamic O-Cloud SW (virtualization layer and workloads)

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-COT-1, REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-COT-2, clause 5.1.8.7.1, SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-COT-2, SEC-CTL-OCLOUD-COT-3, clause 5.1.8.7.2, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: The O-Cloud Platform supports a Chain of Trust (CoT) by verifying the integrity of all relevant components from the hardware layer to the application layer, using a hardware or software root of trust. It also supports remote attestation services to continuously monitor integrity and detect unauthorized changes.

Threat References: T-VL-02

DUT/s: O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_OCLOUD_INTEGRITY_VERIFICATION_DYNAMIC_SW

Purpose: To ensure the integrity of dynamic software in the O-Cloud through continuous verification.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions:

- Ensure the O-Cloud is set up with all components, including hardware, operating system, virtualization layer, and any applications or services running on the O-Cloud.
- Use tools capable of interfacing with the O-Cloud's root of trust mechanism.
- Access requirements: Tester needs administrative access to the O-Cloud platform to execute integrity verification commands and to collect integrity verification reports.
Execution steps:

Dynamic software verification:

Initiate continuous integrity verification of the dynamic O-Cloud SW, including executable binaries and configuration files used by the container engine and workloads.

Attestation:

Perform attestation of the container engine configurations and active workloads to detect any unauthorized changes or potential integrity breaches.

Report collection and anomaly detection:

Collect attestation reports and analyse them for any discrepancies, unauthorized changes, or signs of tampering in the container engine and workloads.

Expected Results:

- Dynamic software components are measured upon execution, with their integrity measurements securely recorded.
- Integrity measurements are successfully captured and verified against known good baselines, indicating no unauthorized modifications.
Expected Format of Evidence:

- Logs attesting the integrity of dynamic software components, including any alerts generated for integrity failures.
- Reports detailing the comparison of runtime integrity measurements against known good baselines, demonstrating continuous integrity verification of dynamic O-Cloud dynamic software.

## Secure time synchronization for O-Cloud

Requirement Name: Secure time synchronization for O-Cloud

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-OCLOUD-TS-1, clause 5.1.8.12.1, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: It ensures all O-Cloud nodes exclusively connect to an authenticated time synchronization server for Time of Day (ToD) synchronization.

Threat Reference: T-TS-01

DUT/s: O-Cloud

Test Name: TC_OCLOUD_SECURE_TIME_SYN

Purpose: To verify that all O-Cloud nodes are configured to exclusively connect to an authenticated time synchronization server for Time of Day (ToD) synchronization.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions:

- A list of allowed secure time synchronization servers
- Configuration of O-Cloud nodes
Execution steps:

Expected results:

Each O-Cloud node is configured to connect only to the allowed secure time synchronization server(s), and the cryptographic keying material for verifying each server’s authenticity is present in the configuration.

Expected format of evidence:

Screenshots showing the O-Cloud node configuration settings with the allowed time synchronization server(s) details.

# Security test of VNF/CNF

This clause contains security tests to validate the security protection mechanism specific to O-RAN architecture elements which are virtualized/containerized and deployed on the O-Cloud/SMO.

## Executive environment protection

Requirement Name: secure executive environment provision

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-LCM-SD-5, REQ-SEC-LCM-SD-6, REQ-SEC-LCM-SD-7, clause 5.3.2.3.1, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: It ensures all O-RAN architecture elements only consume the resources from its defined resource quotas.

Threat References: T-AppLCM-04, T-AppLCM-05

DUT/s: SMO

Test Name: TC_SECURE_EXECUTIVE_ENV_PROVISION

Purpose: To test whether the NFO compares the VNF/CNF owned resource state with the defined resource quotas from the Application descriptor.

To test whether the NFO sends an alarm to the SMO if the two resource states are inconsistent.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

There are: VNF/CNF, O-Cloud, SMO, NFO, Application Descriptor, (or simulated O-Cloud, SMO) on the test environment.

Execution steps

Expected Results

The NFO sends an alarm to the SMO when the NFO detects an inconsistency between the parsed resource state from the Application descriptor and the owned resource state.

Expected format of evidence:

Screenshots of logs containing the alarm on the SMO.

## Signature validation during App image onboarding

The security test cases defined in clause 9.5.2 apply to this clause.

## Application image deployment security

Requirement Name: Application image deployment security

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-12, clause 5.3.2.1.1, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description:

Threat References: T-IMG-04, T-AppLCM-02

DUT/s: O-CU, O-DU, Near-RT RIC, xApps, rApps

Test Name: TC_APP_IMAGE_VULNERABILITY_CHECK_ON_DEPLOY

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to verify that an Application image is free from known vulnerabilities.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

O-Cloud with Application image scanning tools integrated.

Execution steps

- Select an Application image with known vulnerabilities, such as an image with outdated software or documented security issues.
- Attempt to deploy the image to an O-Cloud using the appropriate deployment configuration.
- Monitor the deployment process and capture any error messages or logs.
- Create a custom Application image that includes outdated or unapproved software libraries.
- Attempt to deploy the custom image to an O-Cloud using the appropriate deployment configuration.
- Monitor the deployment process and capture any error messages or logs.
Expected Results

For the first step, the container image with known vulnerabilities is rejected or flagged as insecure, preventing its deployment.

For the second step, the container image with outdated or unapproved software is blocked from deployment, ensuring compliance with security policies.

Expected format of evidence:

- Vulnerability scan reports generated by the Application image scanning tool, indicating the detected vulnerabilities and their severity.
- Rejection logs or error messages from the Application image registry or O-Cloud, indicating the rejection or blocking of insecure images.

# Security tests of Common Application Lifecycle Management

This clause contains security tests to validate the security protection relevant to Common App LCM.

## Application package

### Application package signature verification

The security test cases defined in clause 9.5.2 apply to this clause.

### Minimum Requirements

Requirement Name: Application package includes minimal artifacts.

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-3, clause 5.3.2.1.1, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: The application package includes the signing certificate and signature(s) of Solution Provider.

Threat References: T-O-RAN-09

DUT/s: O-RU, O-DU, O-CU, Near-RT RIC, xApp, rApp

Test Name: TC_App_Pkg_Min_Artifacts

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to verify that an Application package includes minimal artifacts according to REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-3.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

Application package available for access.

Execution steps:

Expected Results:

Application package includes the minimal artifacts required.

Expected format of evidence:

Screenshots or logs providing evidence that the application package contains the signing certificate and signatures of the Solution Provider.

### App Package Change Log

Requirement Name: Application package shall have change logs.

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-15, clause 5.3.2.1.1, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: Application packages have a Change Log.

Threat References: T-O-RAN-09

DUT/s: O-RU, O-DU, O-CU, Near-RT RIC, xApp, rApp

Test Name: TC_App_Pkg_Change_Log

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to verify that the Application packages contains a change log according to REQ-SEC-ALM-PKG-15.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

Application package available for access.

Execution steps:

- Access the Application package and external artifacts if present.
- Verify the Application package or external artifacts includes change log.
- Verify latest version noted in change log matches the current Application version.
Expected Results:

Change log is included in the Application package.

Expected format of evidence:

Screenshot or logs providing evidence of the change log is either provided in the application package or provided as an external artifact.

## Secure Decommissioning

### Post-Decommission Report

Requirement Name: A complete post-decommission report shall be generated.

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-ALM-DECOM-1, clause 5.3, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description:

Threat References: T-AppLCM-06

DUT/s: O-RU, O-DU, O-CU, Near-RT RIC, xApp, rApp

Test Name: TC_App_Decomm_Report

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to ensure a decommissioning report is generated for a decommissioned Application.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

Ensure Application subject to decommissioning has no running instance(s) on O-RAN system.

Execution steps:

Expected Results:

Decommissioning report documenting Application decommissioning is generated.

Expected format of evidence:

A report detailing:

- Decommissioned Application name and version
- Date and time of Application decommissioning
- Tasks performed during decommissioning
- Other pertinent details

### Trust Artifact Revocation

Requirement Name: Trust artifacts revoked during Application decommissioning.

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-ALM-DECOM-3, clause 5.3.2.5.1, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: All trust artifacts associated with an application are revoked at the time of decommissioning.

Threat References: T-AppLCM-06

DUT/s: O-RU, O-DU, O-CU, Near-RT RIC, xApp, rApp

Test Name: TC_App_Trust_Artifact_Revocation

Purpose: The purpose of this test is to verify that all trust artifacts associated with an Application are revoked at the time of Application decommissioning.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- Locate and prepare Application trust artifacts for revocation.
- Ensure Application subject to decommissioning has no running instance(s) on O-RAN system.
Execution steps:

Expected Results:

All trust artifacts are removed from the Application and the decommissioned Application cannot be re-instantiated.

Expected format of evidence:

Screenshots, logs, or report providing evidence that the trust artifacts associated with a decommissioned application are revoked.

# Security test of O-CU-CP

The present clause contains 3GPP security test cases applicable to O-CU-CP and O-RAN specific O-CU-CP test cases.

## O-CU-CP 3GPP specific security functional requirements and test cases

Requirement Name: 3GPP specific O-CU-CP security

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-OCU-1, clause 5.1.4.1, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: “O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP shall meet the security requirements for gNB-CU-CP and gNB-CU-UP respectively”, as specified in TS 33.501 [25]

DUT/s: O-CU-CP

Purpose: To verify the O-CU-CP meet the security requirements for gNB-CU-CP

Test Name: TC_O_CU_CP_3GPP_33_523_Cl_5_2_2 (As defined in clause 5.2.2 of TS 33.523 [23])

gNB-CU-CP specific security functional requirements and test cases specified in clause 5.2.2 of TS 33.523 [23] apply to O-CU-CP.

## O-RAN specific security functional requirements and test cases

The TLS test cases in clause 6.3 of the present document apply to the O1 interface of O-CU-CP.

The IPsec test cases in clause 6.4 of the present document apply to the E2 interface of O-CU-CP.

# Security test of O-CU-UP

The present clause contains 3GPP security test cases applicable to O-CU-UP and O-RAN specific O-CU-UP test cases.

## O-CU-UP 3GPP specific security functional requirements and test cases

Requirement Name: 3GPP specific O-CU-UP security

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-OCU-1, clause 5.1.4.1, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: “O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP shall meet the security requirements for gNB-CU-CP and gNB-CU-UP respectively”, as specified in TS 33.501 [25]

DUT/s: O-CU-UP

Test Name: TC_O_CU_UP_3GPP_33_523_Cl_6_2_2 (As defined in clause 6.2.2 of TS 33.523 [23])

Purpose: To verify the O-CU-CP meet the security requirements for gNB-CU-UP

gNB-CU-UP specific security functional requirements and test cases specified in clause 6.2.2 of TS 33.523 [23] apply to O-CU-UP.

The TLS test cases in clause 6.3 of the present document apply to the O1 interface of O-CU-UP.

The IPsec test cases in clause 6.4 of the present document apply to the E2 interface of O-CU-UP.

# Security test of O-DU

The present clause contains 3GPP security test cases applicable to O-DU and O-RAN specific O-DU test cases.

## O-DU 3GPP specific security functional requirements and test cases

Requirement Name: 3GPP specific O-DU security

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-ODU-1, clause 5.1.5.1, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: “O-DU shall meet the security requirements for gNB-DU” as specified in TS 33.501 [25].

DUT/s: O-DU

Test Name: TC_O_DU_3GPP_33_523_Cl_7_2_2 (As defined in clause 7.2.2 of TS 33.523 [23])

gNB-DU specific security functional requirements and test cases specified in clause 7.2.2 of TS 33.523 [23] apply to O-DU.

The 802.1X Authenticator Validation test cases in clause 11.2.1 applies to O-DU for the network configuration where O-DU acts as an 802.1X authenticator.

The 802.1X Supplicant Validation test cases in clause 11.2.2 apply to O-DU.

The TLS test cases in clause 6.3 of the present document apply to the O1 interface and M-Plane of O-DU.

The IPsec test cases in clause 6.4 of the present document apply to the E2 interface of O-DU.

The SSH Server & Client test cases in clause 6.2 of the present document apply to the M-Plane of O-DU.

# End-to-End security test cases

This clause describes E2E tests evaluating and assessing the security aspects of an O-RAN conformant radio access network.

The O-RU, O-DU, O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP as defined in O-RAN Architecture Description [1] is the System under Test (SUT) and can be viewed as an integrated black box in the context of the E2E security testing.

## 3GPP Security Assurance Specification (SCAS)

For NR technology, Table 24-1 applies. The test cases referenced in this table are from 3GPP TS 33.511 [8], which are applied to the O-RAN system. The table also indicates the applicable technology, specifying whether each test case pertains to NR NSA (Non-Standalone) and/or NR SA (Standalone).

For LTE technology, Table 24-2 applies. The test cases referenced in this table are from 3GPP TS 33.216 [9], which are applied to the O-RAN system.

The tables also contain the information relative to the 3GPP releases affected for each test case.

| Test Case (O-RAN Ref. #) | Test Case (3GPP clause number and title) | Applicable Technology | Applicable 3GPP Releases |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| TC_SCAS_NR_E2E_24.1.1 | 4.2.2.1.1 Integrity protection of RRC-signalling | NR NSA (Options 3 and 4) NR SA | 16 17 18 |
| TC_SCAS_NR_E2E_24.1.2 | 4.2.2.1.2 Integrity protection of user data | NR NSA (Options 4 and 7) NR SA | 16 17 18 |
| TC_SCAS_NR_E2E_24.1.3 | 4.2.2.1.4 RRC integrity check failure | NR NSA NR SA | 16 17 18 |
| TC_SCAS_NR_E2E_24.1.4 | 4.2.2.1.5 UP integrity check failure | NR NSA NR SA | 16 17 18 |
| TC_SCAS_NR_E2E_24.1.5 | 4.2.2.1.6 Ciphering of RRC-signalling | NR NSA NR SA | 16 17 18 |
| TC_SCAS_NR_E2E_24.1.6 | 4.2.2.1.7 Ciphering of user data | NR NSA NR SA | 16 17 18 |
| TC_SCAS_NR_E2E_24.1.7 | 4.2.2.1.8 Replay protection of user data | NR NSA NR SA | 16 17 18 |
| TC_SCAS_NR_E2E_24.1.8 | 4.2.2.1.9 Replay protection of RRC-signalling | NR NSA NR SA | 16 17 18 |
| TC_SCAS_NR_E2E_24.1.9 | 4.2.2.1.10 Ciphering of user data based on the security policy sent by the SMF | NR NSA (Options 4 and 7) NR SA | 16 17 18 |
| TC_SCAS_NR_E2E_24.1.10 | 4.2.2.1.11 Integrity of user data based on the security policy sent by the SMF | NR NSA (Options 4 and 7) NR SA | 16 17 18 |
| TC_SCAS_NR_E2E_24.1.11 | 4.2.2.1.12 AS algorithms selection | NR NSA NR SA | 16 17 18 |
| TC_SCAS_NR_E2E_24.1.12 | 4.2.2.1.13 Key refresh | NR NSA NR SA | 16 17 18 |
| TC_SCAS_NR_E2E_24.1.13 | 4.2.2.1.14 Bidding down prevention in Xn-handovers | NR NSA (Options 4 and 7) NR SA | 16 17 18 |
| TC_SCAS_NR_E2E_24.1.14 | 4.2.2.1.15 AS protection algorithm selection | NR NSA NR SA | 16 17 18 |
| TC_SCAS_NR_E2E_24.1.15 | 4.2.2.1.16 Control plane data confidentiality protection over N2/Xn interface | NR NSA (Options 4 and 7) NR SA | 16 17 18 |
| TC_SCAS_NR_E2E_24.1.16 | 4.2.2.1.17 Control plane data integrity protection over S1/NG/Xn interface | NR NSA NR SA | 16 17 18 |
| TC_SCAS_NR_E2E_24.1.17 | 4.2.2.1.18 Key update on dual connectivity | NR NSA NR SA | 16 17 18 |
| TC_SCAS_NR_E2E_24.1.18 | 4.2.2.1.19 User plane security activation in Inactive scenario | NR NSA (Options 4 and 7) NR SA | 16 17 18 |
| TC_SCAS_NR_E2E_24.1.19 | 4.2.2.1.20 User plane data confidentiality protection over N3/Xn interface | NR NSA (Options 4 and 7) NR SA | 18 |
| TC_SCAS_NR_E2E_24.1.20 | 4.2.2.1.21 User plane data integrity protection over N3/Xn interface | NR NSA (Options 4 and 7) NR SA | 18 |

| Test Case (O-RAN Ref. #) | Test Case (3GPP clause number and title) | Applicable Technology | Applicable 3GPP Releases |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| TC_SCAS_LTE_E2E_24.1.1 | 4.2.2.1.1 Control plane data confidentiality protection over S1/X2 | LTE | 16 17 18 |
| TC_SCAS_LTE_E2E_24.1.2 | 4.2.2.1.2 Control plane data integrity protection over S1/X2 | LTE | 16 17 18 |
| TC_SCAS_LTE_E2E_24.1.3 | 4.2.2.1.3 User plane data ciphering | LTE | 16 17 18 |
| TC_SCAS_LTE_E2E_24.1.4 | 4.2.2.1.4 User plane data integrity protection | LTE | 16 17 18 |
| TC_SCAS_LTE_E2E_24.1.5 | 4.2.2.1.5 AS algorithms selection | LTE | 16 17 18 |
| TC_SCAS_LTE_E2E_24.1.6 | 4.2.2.1.6 RRC integrity protection | LTE | 16 17 18 |
| TC_SCAS_LTE_E2E_24.1.7 | 4.2.2.1.7 Selection of EIA0 | LTE | 16 17 18 |
| TC_SCAS_LTE_E2E_24.1.8 | 4.2.2.1.8 (1)  Key refresh (PDCP Count) | LTE | 16 17 18 |
| TC_SCAS_LTE_E2E_24.1.9 | 4.2.2.1.8 (2)  Key refresh (DRB ID) | LTE | 16 17 18 |
| TC_SCAS_LTE_E2E_24.1.10 | 4.2.2.1.9 AS integrity algorithm selection | LTE | 16 17 18 |
| TC_SCAS_LTE_E2E_24.1.11 | 4.2.2.1.10 Bidding down prevention in X2-handovers | LTE | 16 17 18 |
| TC_SCAS_LTE_E2E_24.1.12 | 4.2.2.1.11 AS protection algorithm selection | LTE | 16 17 18 |
| TC_SCAS_LTE_E2E_24.1.13 | 4.2.2.1.12 RRC and UP downlink ciphering | LTE | 16 17 18 |
| TC_SCAS_LTE_E2E_24.1.14 | 4.2.2.1.13 Map a UE NR security capability | LTE | 16 17 18 |
| TC_SCAS_LTE_E2E_24.1.15 | 4.2.2.1.14 UE NR security capability | LTE | 16 17 18 |
| TC_SCAS_LTE_E2E_24.1.16 | 4.2.2.1.15 Bidding down prevention in X2-handovers | LTE | 16 17 18 |
| TC_SCAS_LTE_E2E_24.1.17 | 4.2.2.1.16 Integrity protection of user data | LTE | 18 |
| TC_SCAS_LTE_E2E_24.1.18 | 4.2.2.1.17 Select the right UP integrity protection policy | LTE | 18 |
| TC_SCAS_LTE_E2E_24.1.19 | 4.2.2.1.18 Select the right UP IP policy | LTE | 18 |
| TC_SCAS_LTE_E2E_24.1.20 | 4.2.2.1.19 Select the right UP IP policy in S1 handover | LTE | 18 |
| TC_SCAS_LTE_E2E_24.1.21 | 4.2.2.1.20 Bidding down prevention for UP IP Policy | LTE | 18 |

## DoS, fuzzing and blind exploitation test

Due to the open and disaggregated nature of the O-RAN system (SUT), the attack surfaces associated with some of its transport protocols and interfaces are easy targets for attackers. Cyberattacks like DoS, fuzzing and blind exploitation are easy to launch, require little information about the target system, and can cause significant performance degradation or service interruption if not properly mitigated.

The duration of test TRAFFIC GENERATION specified in this clause shall have a 3 minute minimum.

Table 24-3 summarizes the test cases and the applicable technology.

|  | Applicable technology |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Test case | LTE | NSA | SA |
| Test ID | Name |  |  |
| 24.2.1.1 | TC_E2E_ODU_SPlane_DoS | N/A | Y |
| 24.2.1.2 | TC_E2E_ODU_SPlane_Robustness | N/A | Y |
| 24.2.2.1 | TC_E2E_ODU_CPlane_eCPRI_DoS | N/A | Y |
| 24.2.2.2 | TC_E2E_ODU_CPlane_eCPRI_Robustness | N/A | Y |
| 24.2.2.3 | TC_E2E_ORU_CPlane_eCPRI_DoS | N/A | Y |
| 24.2.2.4 | TC_E2E_ORU_CPlane_eCPRI_Robustness | N/A | Y |
| 24.2.3.1 | TC_E2E_NearRTRIC_A1_DoS | N/A | Y |
| 24.2.3.2 | TC_E2E_NearRTRIC_A1_Robustness | N/A | Y |
| 24.2.3.3 | TC_E2E_NearRTRIC_A1_Vulnerabilities | N/A | Y |
| 24.2.4.1 | TC_E2E_OCloud_SideChannel_DoS | N/A | Y |

#### S-Plane PTP DoS Attack

Requirement Name: O-DU S-Plane DoS Attack

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-DOS-1, clause 5.3.5.1, O-RAN Security Requirements and Control Specification [5]

Requirement Description: An O-RAN architecture element with a network interface withstands network transport protocol based volumetric DDoS attack without system crash and returning to service level after the attack.

Threat References: T-O-RAN-09

SUT/s: O-RAN system

Test Name: TC_E2E_ODU_SPlane_DoS

Purpose: To verify that a predefined volumetric DoS attack against O-DU via the Open FH S-Plane will not crash the SUT and that after the attack ends, the SUT will return to the pre-attack service level.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- The test emulator has the MAC address of the O-DU’s Open FH interface and the L2 connectivity to the O-DU
- Normal UE procedures are in place and the SUT correctly handles user plane traffic.
RECOMMENDATION: Use Bidirectional throughput in different radio conditions and Data Services tests (clauses 6.0 and 7.1 from ORAN TIFG End-to-End Test Specifications [4]) as benchmarks for indicating the correct behaviour of the SUT.

Figure 24-1 shows test setup and configuration.

Execution steps

The tester uses a test tool to generate different types of volumetric DoS Open FH S-Plane attacks against the O-DU.

Expected results

- During the test, the SUT maintains an operational level.
- After the execution of the test, the degradation of service availability and performance of the SUT is not noticeable.
RECOMMENDATION: Use Bidirectional throughput in different radio conditions and Data Services tests (clauses 6.0 and 7.1 from ORAN TIFG End-to-End Test Specifications [4]) as benchmarks for indicating the correct behaviour of the SUT.

Expected format of evidence: Traffic captures and/or report files

#### S-Plane PTP Unexpected Input

Requirement Name: O-DU S-Plane Robustness

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-OFSP-4, clause 5.2.5.3.2, O-RAN Security Requirements and Control Specification [5]

Requirement Description: The O-DU can detect and defend against application level attacks across the Open FH S-Plane interface, due to misbehaviour or malicious intent.

Threat References: T-O-RAN-09

SUT/s: O-RAN system

Test Name: TC_E2E_ODU_SPlane_Robustness

Purpose: To verify that an input not conforming to the Open FH S-Plane specification sent to the O-DU will not compromise the security of the SUT.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- The test emulator has the MAC address of the O-DU’s Open FH interface and L2 connectivity to the O-DU.
- Normal UE procedures are in place and the SUT correctly handles user plane traffic.
RECOMMENDATION: Use Bidirectional throughput in different radio conditions and Data Services tests (clauses 6.0 and 7.1 from ORAN TIFG End-to-End Test Specifications [4]) as benchmarks for indicating the correct behaviour of the SUT.

Figure 24-2 shows the test setup and configuration.

Execution steps

Expected results

During the execution of the test, the degradation of service availability and performance of the SUT is not noticeable.

RECOMMENDATION: Use Bidirectional throughput in different radio conditions and Data Services tests (clauses 6.0 and 7.1 from ORAN TIFG End-to-End Test Specifications [4]) as benchmarks for indicating the correct behaviour of the SUT.

Expected format of evidence: Log files, traffic captures and/or reports

### C-Plane

#### C-Plane eCPRI DoS Attack

Requirement Name: O-DU C-Plane eCPRI DoS Attack

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-DOS-1, clause 5.3.5.1, O-RAN Security Requirements and Control Specification [5]

Requirement Description: An O-RAN architecture element with a network interface withstands network transport protocol based volumetric DDoS attack without system crash and returning to service level after the attack.

Threat References: T-CPLANE-O2, T-O-RAN-09

SUT/s: O-RAN system

Test Name: TC_E2E_ODU_CPlane_eCPRI_DoS

Purpose: To verify that a predefined volumetric DoS attack against the O-DU over Open FH C-Plane will not crash the SUT and that after the attack ends, the SUT will return to the pre-attack service level.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- The test emulator has the MAC address of the O-DU’s Open FH interface and L2 connectivity to the O-DU.
- Normal UE procedures are in place and the SUT correctly handles user plane traffic.
RECOMMENDATION: Use Bidirectional throughput in different radio conditions and Data Services tests (clauses 6.0 and 7.1 from ORAN TIFG End-to-End Test Specifications [4]) as benchmarks for indicating the correct behaviour of the SUT.

Figure 24-3 shows the test setup and configuration.

Execution steps

Use test tool to generate several types of volumetric DoS Open FH C-Plane attacks against the O-DU.

Expected results

- During the test, the SUT maintains an operational level.
- After the execution of the test, the degradation of service availability and performance of the SUT is not noticeable.
RECOMMENDATION: Use Bidirectional throughput in different radio conditions and Data Services tests (clauses 6.0 and 7.1 from ORAN TIFG End-to-End Test Specifications [4]) as benchmarks for indicating the correct behaviour of the SUT.

Expected format of evidence: Traffic captures and/or report files

#### C-Plane eCPRI Unexpected Input

Requirement Name: O-DU C-Plane Robustness

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-OFCP-2, clause 5.2.5.1.2, O-RAN Security Requirements and Control Specification [5]

Requirement Description: The O-DU can detect and defend against application level attacks across the Open FH C-Plane messages with O-RUs, due to misbehaviour or malicious intent.

Threat References: T-O-RAN-09

SUT/s: O-RAN system

Test Name: TC_E2E_ODU_CPlane_eCPRI_Robustness

Purpose: To verify that input not conforming to the Open FH C-Plane specification will not compromise the security of the SUT.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- The test emulator has the MAC address of the O-DU’s Open FH interface and L2 connectivity to the O-DU.
- Normal UE procedures are in place and the SUT correctly handles user plane traffic.
RECOMMENDATION: Use Bidirectional throughput in different radio conditions and Data Services tests (clauses 6.0 and 7.1 from ORAN TIFG End-to-End Test Specifications [4]) as benchmarks for indicating the correct behaviour of the SUT.

Figure 24-4 shows the test setup and configuration.

Execution steps

Expected results

During the execution of the test, the degradation of service availability and performance of the SUT is not noticeable.

RECOMMENDATION: Use Bidirectional throughput in different radio conditions and Data Services tests (clauses 6.0 and 7.1 from ORAN TIFG End-to-End Test Specifications [4]) as benchmarks for indicating the correct behaviour of the SUT.

Expected format of evidence: Traffic captures and/or report files

#### C-Plane eCPRI DoS Attack on O-RU

Requirement Name: O-RU C-Plane eCPRI DoS Attack

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-DOS-1, clause 5.3.5.1, O-RAN Security Requirements and Control Specification [5]

Requirement Description: An O-RAN architecture element with a network interface withstands network transport protocol based volumetric DDoS attack without system crash and return to service level after the attack.

Threat References: T-O-RAN-09

SUT/s: O-RAN system

Test Name: TC_E2E_ORU_CPlane_eCPRI_DoS

Procedure and execution steps

Purpose: To verify that a predefined volumetric DoS attack against O-RU over the Open FH C-Plane will not crash the SUT and that after the attack ends, the SUT will return to the pre-attack service level.

Preconditions

- The test emulator has the MAC address of the O-RU’s Open FH interface and L2 connectivity to the O-RU.
- Normal UE procedures are in place and the SUT correctly handles user plane traffic.
RECOMMENDATION: Use Bidirectional throughput in different radio conditions and Data Services tests (clauses 6.0 and 7.1 from ORAN TIFG End-to-End Test Specifications [4]) as benchmarks for indicating the correct behaviour of the SUT.

Figure 24-5 shows the test setup and configuration.

Execution steps

The tester uses a test tool to generate different types of volumetric DoS Open FH C-Plane attacks against the O-RU.

Expected results

- During the test, the SUT maintains an operational level
- After the execution of the test, the degradation of service availability and performance of the SUT is not noticeable.
Expected format of evidence: Traffic captures and/or report files

#### C-Plane eCPRI Unexpected Input on O-RU

Requirement Name: O-RU C-Plane Robustness

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-OFCP-2, clause 5.2.5.1.2, O-RAN Security Requirements and Control Specification [5]

Requirement Description: The O-RU can detect and defend against application level attacks across the Open FH C-Plane messages with O-DUs, due to misbehaviour or malicious intent.

Threat References: T-O-RAN-09

SUT/s: O-RAN system

Test Name: TC_E2E_ORU_CPlane_eCPRI_Robustness

Purpose: To verify that input not conforming to the Open FH C-Plane specification will not compromise the security of the SUT.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- The test emulator has the MAC address of the O-RU’s Open FH interface and L2 connectivity to the O-DU.
- Normal UE procedures are in place and the SUT correctly handles user plane traffic.
RECOMMENDATION: Use Bidirectional throughput in different radio conditions and Data Services tests (clauses 6.0 and 7.1 from ORAN TIFG End-to-End Test Specifications [4]) as benchmarks for indicating the correct behaviour of the SUT.

Figure 24-6 shows the test setup and configuration.

Execution steps

Expected results

- After the execution of the test, the degradation of service availability and performance of the SUT is not noticeable.
RECOMMENDATION: Use Bidirectional throughput in different radio conditions and Data Services tests (clauses 6.0 and 7.1 from ORAN TIFG End-to-End Test Specifications [4]) as benchmarks for indicating the correct behaviour of the SUT.

Expected format of evidence: Traffic captures and/or report files

#### Near-RT RIC A1 Interface DoS Attack

Requirement Name: Near-RT RIC A1 interface DoS recover

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-6, clause 5.1.3.1, O-RAN Security Requirements and Control Specification [5]

Requirement Description: The Near-RT RIC recovers, without catastrophic failure, from a volumetric DDoS attack across the A1 interface, due to misbehaviour or malicious intent.

Threat References: T-O-RAN-09

SUT/s: O-RAN system

Test Name: TC_E2E_NearRTRIC_A1_DoS

Purpose: To verify that a predefined volumetric DoS attack against the Near-RT RIC over the A1 interface will not crash the SUT and that after the attack ends, the SUT will return to the pre-attack service level.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- The test emulator has the IP address information of the Near-RT RIC’s A1 interface and a routable path to the target.
- Normal UE procedures are in place and the SUT correctly handles user plane traffic.
RECOMMENDATION: Use Bidirectional throughput in different radio conditions and Data Services tests (clauses 6.0 and 7.1 from ORAN TIFG End-to-End Test Specifications [4]) as benchmarks for indicating the correct behaviour of the SUT.

Figure 24-7 shows the test setup and configuration.

Execution steps

Expected results

- During the test, the SUT maintains an operational level.
- After the execution of the test, the degradation of service availability and performance of the SUT is not noticeable.
RECOMMENDATION: Use Bidirectional throughput in different radio conditions and Data Services tests (clauses 6.0 and 7.1 from ORAN TIFG End-to-End Test Specifications [4]) as benchmarks for indicating the correct behaviour of the SUT.

Expected format of evidence: Traffic captures and/or report files

#### Near-RT RIC A1 Interface Unexpected Input

Requirement Name: Near-RT RIC A1 Robustness

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-NEAR-RT-7, clause 5.1.3.1, O-RAN Security Requirements and Control Specification [5]

Requirement Description: The Near-RT RIC detects and defends against content-related attacks across the A1 interface, due to misbehaviour or malicious intent.

Threat References: T-O-RAN-09

SUT/s: O-RAN system

Test Name: TC_E2E_NearRTRIC_A1_Robustness

Purpose: To verify that input not conforming to the AI interface specification will not compromise the security of the SUT.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- The test emulator has the IP address information of the Near-RT RIC’s A1 interface and a routable path to the target.
- Normal UE procedures are in place and the SUT correctly handles user plane traffic.
RECOMMENDATION: Use Bidirectional throughput in different radio conditions and Data Services tests (clauses 6.0 and 7.1 from ORAN TIFG End-to-End Test Specifications [4]) as benchmarks for indicating the correct behaviour of the SUT.

Figure 24-8 shows the test setup and configuration.

Execution steps

Expected results

During the execution of the test, the degradation of service availability and performance of the SUT is not noticeable.

RECOMMENDATION: Use Bidirectional throughput in different radio conditions and Data Services tests (clauses 6.0 and 7.1 from ORAN TIFG End-to-End Test Specifications [4]) as benchmarks for indicating the correct behaviour of the SUT.

Expected format of evidence: Traffic captures and/or report files

#### Near-RT RIC A1 Vulnerability Assessment

Requirement Name: Near-RT RIC A1 Vulnerability Assessment

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-SYS-1, clause 5.3.6, O-RAN Security Requirements and Control Specification [5]

Requirement Description: Known vulnerabilities in the OS and applications of an O-RAN architecture element clearly identified.

Threat References: T-OPENSRC-01, T-OPENSRC-02

SUT/s: O-RAN system

Test Name: TC_E2E_NearRTRIC_A1_Vulnerabilities

Purpose: To verify that exploitation attempts of known vulnerabilities in the Near-RT RIC will not compromise the security of the SUT.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- The test emulator has the IP address information of the Near-RT RIC’s A1 interface and a routable path to the target.
- Normal UE procedures are in place and the SUT correctly handles user plane traffic.
- The test requires the vulnerability scanning tool to have an up-to-date database of well-known vulnerabilities (signatures/plugins) based on Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE).
RECOMMENDATION: Use Bidirectional throughput in different radio conditions and Data Services tests (clauses 6.0 and 7.1 from ORAN TIFG End-to-End Test Specifications [4]) as benchmarks for indicating the correct behaviour of the SUT.

Figure 24-9 shows the test setup and configuration.

Execution steps

The tester uses a vulnerability scanning tool to scan the IP address of the Near-RT RIC A1 interface with the following parameters defined.

- TCP Ports: Port scanner scans all TCP ports in range 0-65535 on the IP interface of SUT. TCP SYN/ACK response by SUT is interpreted as open port.
- UDP Ports: All UDP ports documented in vendor-provided list. Other UDP ports may be considered as open for the purpose of service detection.
- Safe Checks: Disabled (to make sure that exploitation attempts of the vulnerabilities will be performed)
> NOTE:	Due to the nature of UDP protocol, there is no simple method of open port detection similar to TCP/SCTP methods based on analysis of response message type (TCP: SYN/ACK, SCTP: INIT-ACK). In case of UDP, open port detection relies on service detection which is discussed in step 2 of this test procedure. In practice, port scans of entire UDP port range 0-65535 are impractical and time consuming. Thus, service detection is generally performed only for subset of UDP ports. UDP port subset selection is arbitrary and not standardized. Service detection in this test procedure is required for UDP ports from vendor-provided list and is optional for other UDP ports.
Expected results

During the execution of the test, the degradation of service availability and performance of the SUT is not noticeable.

RECOMMENDATION: Use Bidirectional throughput in different radio conditions and Data Services tests (clauses 6.0 and 7.1 from ORAN TIFG End-to-End Test Specifications [4]) as benchmarks for indicating the correct behaviour of the SUT.

Expected format of evidence: Tool testing report and traffic captures

### O-Cloud

#### O-Cloud side-channel DoS attack

Requirement Name: O-Cloud DoS Attack

Requirement Reference: REQ-SEC-DOS-1, clause 5.3.5.1, O-RAN Security Requirements and Control Specification [5]

Requirement Description: An O-RAN architecture element with a network interface withstands network transport protocol based volumetric DDoS attack without system crash and returning to service level after the attack.

Threat References: T-O-RAN-09

SUT/s: O-RAN system

Test Name: TC_E2E_OCloud_SideChannel_DoS

Purpose: To verify that a noisy neighbour DoS attack against O-Cloud for resource starvation will not crash the SUT and that after the attack ends, the SUT will return to the pre-attack service level.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

- The test emulator has access to the O-Cloud platform hosting the network slice(s) of the O-RAN system.
- Normal UE procedures are in place and the SUT correctly handles user plane traffic.
- Logging and alerts in the O-cloud are enabled. Network monitoring tools may be used.
RECOMMENDATION: Use Bidirectional throughput in different radio conditions and Data Services tests (clauses 6.0 and 7.1 from ORAN TIFG End-to-End Test Specifications [4]) as benchmarks for indicating the correct behaviour of the SUT.

Figure 24-10 shows the test setup and configuration.

Noisy neighbour VNF(s) can be deployed into an existing slice or a new slice of the shared resources with the existing slice under test.

Execution steps

- Noisy neighbour tenant: existing slice or a new slice of the shared resources with the existing slice.
- The Noisy Neighbour tenants utilize shared resources that include CPU, memory, storage, and network. The Noisy Neighbour tenants exhaust all the remaining shared resources. The duration of the test is at least 3 minutes or long enough to cover the benchmarking tests.
Expected results

- After the execution of the test, the degradation of service availability and performance of the SUT is not noticeable.
- The Noisy Neighbour attack is properly logged and alerted by the O-Cloud.
RECOMMENDATION: Use Bidirectional throughput in different radio conditions and Data Services tests (clauses 6.0 and 7.1 from ORAN TIFG End-to-End Test Specifications [4]) as benchmarks for indicating the correct behaviour of the SUT.

Expected format of evidence: Logs, results, screenshots, report

# Security test of Shared O-RU

This clause contains security tests to validate security controls related to the Shared O-RU and the Shared O-RU architecture.

## Shared O-RU test cases

### mTLS for mutual authentication

Requirement Name: Shared O-RU support for mTLS 1.2, or higher, for mutual authentication on the Open FH M-Plane interface with an O-RU Controller

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-SharedORU-1, clause 5.1.9.2, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: mTLS support on Shared O-RU

Threat References: T-SharedORU-06

DUT/s: Shared O-RU

Test Name: TC_SharedORU_mTLS

Purpose: To verify the Shared O-RU is able to mutually authenticate with an O-RU Controller using mTLS, with PKI-based X.509 certificates.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

DUT is the Shared O-RU with mTLS 1.2, or 1.3, support enabled.

Execution steps

Follow the test case in clause 6.3 of the present document.

Expected results

The DUT supports mutual authentication with an O-RU Controller using mTLS.

Expected format of evidence: Log entries and packet captures.

### NACM Authorization

Requirement Name: Shared O-RU support for NACM for permitting or denying access to an SRO

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-SharedORU-3, clause 5.1.9.2, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: NACM support for Shared O-RU

Threat References: T-SharedORU-22, T-SharedORU-23

DUT/s: Shared O-RU

Test Name: TC_SharedORU_NACM_Authorization

Purpose: To verify the Shared O-RU is able to enforce role-based least privilege access control on the Open Fronthaul by using NACM [14].

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

DUT is the Shared O-RU with:

- IP enabled Open Fronthaul M-Plane interface, reachable from the authentication server
- Valid certificate loaded for the server and necessary certificate authorities (CAs)
- Client’s root CA required to validate NETCONF client certificate
- Valid TLS Client-to-NETCONF username mapping
Execution steps

First set up a host/device with TLS client software installed, valid client certificates, keys, root CA certificate for the server (Shared O-RU), and all intermediate CA certificates required to validate the client certificate.

The following test steps are validated:

- enable-nacm = true
- read-default = permit
- write-default = deny
- exec-default = deny
- enable-external-groups = true
Upon availability of the NETCONF operations set(s) definition per NACM group, the NACM rule set(s) enforcement by the DUT is validated for each of those pre-defined groups listed above.

Expected results

The DUT supports NETCONF over TLS session over its Open Fronthaul M-Plane interface and NACM enforcement control settings.

Expected format of evidence: Log entries and packet captures.

### TLS across Open Fronthaul

Requirement Name: Shared O-RU support for TLS 1.2, or higher, on the Open FH M-Plane interface with an O-RU controller

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-SharedORU-4, clause 5.1.9.2, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: TLS on Shared O-RU

Threat References: T-SharedORU-27, T-SharedORU-28

DUT/s: Shared O-RU

Test Name: TC_SharedORU_TLS

Purpose: To verify whether Shared O-RU establishes a TLS session with an O-RU Controller and provides confidentiality and integrity protection for messages exchanged with the O-RU Controller.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

DUT is the Shared O-RU with TLS support enabled.

Execution steps

Follow the test case in clause 6.3 of the present document.

Expected results

The DUT provides confidentiality and integrity protection for data in transit on the Open Fronthaul M-Plane interface.

Expected format of evidence: Log entries and packet captures.

### Reject Password-based authentication

Requirement Name: Denial of password-based authentication with an O-RU Controller by Shared O-RU

Requirement Reference: SEC-CTL-SharedORU-2, clause 5.1.9.2, O-RAN Security Requirements and Controls Specifications [5]

Requirement Description: Shared O-RU is able to reject password-based authentication on the Open Fronthaul M-Plane

Threat References: T-SharedORU-04

DUT/s: Shared O-RU

Test Name: TC_SharedORU_SSH_Password_Based_Authentication

Purpose: To verify the Shared O-RU can reject a SSH session using password-based authentication on the Open Fronthaul.

Procedure and execution steps

Preconditions

DUT is the Shared O-RU with password-based authentication for SSH on the Open Fronthaul disabled.

Execution steps

Expected results

The DUT rejects the Open Fronthaul M-Plane session with the O-RU Controller.

Expected format of evidence: Log entries, packet captures, and/or screenshots.


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG11.TS.SecProtSpec.0-R004-v13.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG11.TS.SecProtSpec.0-R004-v13.00 O-RAN Work Group 11 (Security Work Group)   Security Protocols Specifications"
---

### TLS Protocol Profile

TLS 1.2 used on an O-RAN specified interface shall support the TLS 1.2 profiles as defined by 3GPP TS 33.210 [20], clause 6.2.3.

The Open Fronthaul has the following exception to 3GPP TS 33.210 [20], clause 6.2.3:

- TLS 1.2 used on the Open Fronthaul interface may support cipher suites with AEAD (e.g. GCM) and PFS (e.g. ECDHE, DHE).
TLS 1.3 used on an O-RAN specified interface shall support the TLS 1.3 profiles as defined by 3GPP TS 33.210 [20] clause 6.2.2.

Use of a cipher suite in TLS shall be configurable.

Additional cipher suites recommended by IANA [8] may be supported.

The TLS cipher suites in RFC 9113 [120], Appendix A, shall be disabled or not supported.

> NOTE:	The vendor and operator need to be prepared to replace integrity and/or ciphering algorithms if the current algorithm in use is compromised or deprecated.

### TLS Certificate Profile

The present clause addresses the certificate profile requirements for the TLS entities that may behave either as client, server, or both. The profile of the certificates to be used with TLS is provided in this clause is based on requirements from 3GPP TS 33.310 [26]. The TLS entity certificate profile shall be applied to all nodes and interfaces that use the TLS protocol for secured communication in the O-RAN network.

- The common rules for all certificates defined in 3GPP- TS 33.310 [26], clause 6.1.1 shall apply.
- The TLS entity certificate profile defined in 3GPP TS 33.310 [26], 6.1.3a shall apply.
> NOTE:	Annex B provides an example of a TLS entity certificate profile used for NETCONF authentication.

## Support NETCONF over secure Transport

TLS requirements for use with NETCONF on the O1 interface [10] are specified in clause 4.2.

TLS requirements for use with NETCONF on the Open Fronthaul M-plane are specified in clause 5.4 of the O-RAN WG4 Management Plane Specification [6].

## DTLS

### General requirements

O-RAN interfaces that implement mutual authentication, integrity protection, replay protection and confidentiality protection using Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS) shall:

- support DTLS 1.2 [76];
- support DTLS for Stream Control Transmission Protocol [24];
and should support DTLS 1.3 [76].

DTLS 1.0 shall not be supported.

> NOTE:	IETF RFC 6083 [24] specifies a user message limit of approximately 16k bytes, which does not align with the unlimited user message size that exists when SCTP is used without DTLS. There could be applications messages exceeding the limit, preventing the use of DTLS over SCTP, so enforcing unsecured SCTP.

### DTLS Protocol Profile

For DTLS 1.2, all TLS 1.2 related provisions in clause 4.2.2 shall apply.

For DTLS 1.3, all TLS 1.3 related provisions in clause 4.2.2 shall apply.

### Certificate Profile

Certificate profile defined in clause 0 shall apply.

## IPsec

### General Requirements

#### Supported IPsec capabilities

O-RAN interfaces that implement authentication, confidentiality and integrity using IPsec shall support IPsec according to IETF RFC 4301 [27]. The supported IPsec capabilities in this clause follow 3GPP TS 33.210 [20] for interworking purposes and further apply requirements given in [26], [28], and [29].

Services that shall be supported (see also 3GPP TS 33.501 [29], clause 9.8.2):

- confidentiality, can be enabled/disabled (via ENCR_NULL);
- integrity protection;
- data origin authentication;
- replay protection, can be enabled/disabled;
- extended sequence numbers, can be enabled/disabled.
Protocol that shall be supported:

- ESP (IETF RFC 4303 [31], as profiled by 3GPP TS 33.210 [20]);
- IPsec mode: Tunnel mode;
- for encrypted packets the DSCP (Differentiated Services Code Point) value of the inner packet shall be copied to the outer packet;
- NAT (Network Address Translation) traversal.
ESP (Encapsulating Security Payload) encryption transforms shall be supported (including authenticated encryption transforms, see also 3GPP TS 33.210 [20], clause 5.3.3).

ESP authentication transforms shall be supported according to [20], clause 5.3.4.

IKE endpoint Identification that shall be supported, according to 3GPP TS 33.310 [26], clause 6.2.1b:

- IP address;
- Fully Qualified domain name (FQDN) (if DNS is supported).
Authentication that shall be supported:

- X.509v3 digital certificates provided by a Certificate Authority (CA) solution
Authentication that may be supported:

- Pre-shared Keys
> NOTE:	Use of Pre-shared Keys is not recommended.
Key exchanges that shall be supported:

- IKEv2 as defined in IETF RFC 7296 [34], IETF RFC 7427 [81], IETF RFC 7670 [82], IETF RFC 8247 [83], IETF RFC 8983 [84], IETF RFC 9370 [85], profile as described in 3GPP TS 33.310 [26];
- certificate-based authentication according to 3GPP TS 33.310 [26];
- certificates according to the profile described by 3GPP TS 33.310 [26];
- Diffie-Hellman (DH) groups:
- DH group 19;
- DH group 20 (optional).
Implementations may follow recommendations regarding minimum key lengths proposed in BSI TR-02102-1 [i.6] .

IKEv1 shall not be supported.

Security Association multiplicity that shall be supported:

- multiple IKE SAs (multiple IPsec tunnels);
- multiple IPsec SAs;
- multiple IPsec SAs per IPsec tunnel.
IKE SA(s) and IPsec SA(s) shall be regularly re-established.

When the full sequence number space of an IPsec SA(s) is used, the transmission for that SA shall stop.

Dead-Peer-Detection (DPD) shall be supported as defined in [34].

Each node shall support a traffic narrowing function for the traffic selector ([34]). If the traffic selector notified from the peer (e.g. Security GW or neighbouring node) is wider than the Local/Remote Address range in the SPD (Security Policy Database) information set on the node side, the peers set the traffic selector values to the narrower range.

### Parallel usage of IPsec and other secure transport protocols

Implementations SHALL support IPsec configuration with one or more dedicated connections in parallel with other secure transport protocols.

### Responder mode and Initiator/Responder mode support

Implementations SHALL support a configurable option per IKE Security Association to use "Responder mode" instead of "Responder/Initiator mode".

Responder mode is applied to IKE SA establishment only. The introduction of "Responder mode" does not change the IKE SA rekeying behavior: Each node shall be able to operate as initiator and responder in IKE_SA rekeying.

## CMPv2

Certificate Management Protocol version 2 (CMPv2) is based on Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) Certificate Management Protocol (CMP) specified in IETF RFC 4210 [38], IETF RFC 9480 [95], IETF RFC 9481 [96], IETF RFC 4211 [39], and IETF RFC 9045 [97].

3GPP TS 33.310 [26] specifies the use of CMPv2 used by base stations to obtain an operator-signed certificate using a secured communication based on the vendor-signed certificate in the base station and a vendor root certificate pre-installed in the CA/RA server.

Certificates may be installed at initial system initialization or obtained through certificate enrolment with the operators PKI. Certificate enrolment may be supported with the CMPv2 protocol between the Network Element (NE) and the operators CA as defined in 3GPP TS 33.310 [26]. A PNF that supports CMPv2 shall use the CMPv2 profile defined in 3GPP TS 33.310 [26], clause 9.5. The CA/RA server may include the trust anchor for the operator issued certificate and the appropriate certificate chains in the initialization response message.

## OAuth 2.0

### Overview

The authorization framework described in clause 4.7 of the present document uses the OAuth 2.0 framework as specified in IETF RFC 6749 [35]. It allows the service producers to authorize the requests from service consumers, and the service consumers to obtain authorization credentials ("token endpoint").

Interfaces requiring the use of OAuth 2.0 for authorization purposes shall support the functionality according to clause 4.7 of the present document.

Following options have been introduced to guarantee interoperability and align with the existing OAuth 2.0 authorization framework in 3GPP TS 33.501 [29] (i.e., Service Based Architecture).

### Basic Parameterization

#### General

Client access token authorization grants shall be supported with type Client Credentials Grant, as described in IETF RFC 6749 [35], section 4.4. Mutual TLS authentication, as specified in the present document (clause 4.2.1), is the mechanism selected by O-RAN for this security procedure.

In addition, still aligned with Client Credential Grant as described in IETF RFC 6749 [35], section 4.4, Client Id and Client Secret may be supported for client authentication. In this case, one-way TLS may be used (certificate on server side).

Access tokens shall be JSON Web Tokens (JWT) as described in IETF RFC 7519 [36], IETF RFC 8725 [93] and IETF RFC 7797 [94], and shall be secured with digital signatures based on JSON Web Signature (JWS) as described in IETF RFC 7515 [37].

The 'scope' attribute as described in IETF RFC 6749 [35], section 3.3, shall be used to specify the allowed services per type of service producer. A more granular level of authorization may be defined by adding additional scope information with the token (e.g., to authorize specific operations, or access to particular resources or datasets), which requires verification by the service producer.

OAuth 2.0 roles, as defined in IETF RFC 6749 [35], section 1.1, are as follows:

- OAuth 2.0 authorization server: new security function in O-RAN architecture; or provided by existing OAuth 2.0 infrastructure in the network.
- OAuth 2.0 client: every API service consumer in O-RAN system (e.g., rApp, xApps)
- OAuth 2.0 resource owner/server: every API service producer in O-RAN system (e.g., Near-RT RIC platform)

#### Registration process

OAuth 2.0 resource servers (API service producers) shall be registered with the OAuth 2.0 authorization server. Service producers may include additional scope information related to specific allowed service operations and resources per client type.

Before initiating the authorization protocol, OAuth 2.0 clients shall be registered with the OAuth 2.0 authorization server. To achieve that, information about the service consumer instance and its type shall be made available in the OAuth 2.0 authorization server. The registration process is subject to implementation procedures of the operator, with the following consideration on authentication procedure:

- OAuth 2.0 clients shall be able to authenticate securely with the authorization server and client type shall be "confidential" as specified in IETF RFC 6749 [35], section 2.1.
- Strong authentication mechanisms based on digital certificates shall be supported.
In addition, a client authentication mechanism based on Client Id and Client Secret may be supported.

#### Access Token request process

##### Server requirements

- The OAuth 2.0 authorization server shall verify that the input parameters in the access token (e.g., client type) match with the corresponding ones in the public certificate of the client, or those in the client profile previously registered.
- If the client is authorized, the authorization server shall generate an access token with appropriate scope as defined in IETF RFC6749[35], section 3.3.
- The authorization server shall digitally sign the generated access token based on a private key as described in IETF RFC 7515 [37]. If the client is not authorized, the Authorization server shall not issue an access token to that client. If the authorization is successful, the Authorization server shall send the access token to the client ('200 OK'), otherwise it shall reply based on OAuth 2.0 error response defined in IETF RFC 6749 [35].
- The success response should include in addition the expiration time for the token as indicated in IETF RFC 6749 [35].
- The response shall include information to identify the resource owner(s)/server(s) if they differ from the related information included in the token request.

#### Service access request based on token verification

Once the client is in possession of a valid access token, it may proceed with the request of service access towards the service producer (OAuth 2.0 resource owner/server).

- The OAuth 2.0 client requests service from the OAuth 2.0 resource owner/server. The OAuth 2.0 client shall include the access token in the request. The OAuth 2.0 client and OAuth 2.0 resource owner/server shall authenticate each other via mutual TLS, as defined in the present document (clause 4.2.1) In addition, one-way TLS authentication with certificate only on server side may be supported, as defined in the clause 4.2.1.
- The OAuth 2.0 resource owner/server shall verify the token:
- It ensures the integrity of the token by verifying the signature using the OAuth 2.0 authorization server’s public key.
- If the integrity check is successful, the OAuth 2.0 resource owner/server shall verify the claims.
- If the verification is successful, the OAuth 2.0 resource owner/server shall execute the requested service and respond back to the OAuth 2.0 client. Otherwise, it shall send a proper error response. If the HTTP protocol is used, that error response shall be based on the OAuth 2.0 error response defined in IETF RFC 6749 [35].

### OAuth2.0 Access token API for O-RAN Elements and interfaces

#### Service operations for access token request

The service operation is defined in IETF RFC 6749 [35] and represented in Figure 4.7-1.

In the present document, only the use of the "Client credentials grant type" (see IETF RFC 6749 [35], sections 1.3.4 and 4.4) is supported.

- The API Consumer sends an HTTP POST request to authorization server to request the access token from the Token Endpoint.
- The authorization server authenticates the client as specified in clause 4.4.2 of IETF RFC 6749 [35] and validates the request as implied in clause 4.4.3 of IETF RFC 6749 [35].
- On success, the authorization server returns a "200 OK" HTTP response along with an access token response structure.
- On failure, the authorization server returns a "400 Bad Request" HTTP response and the message content contains additional error information.

##### Resource Standard Methods

The POST method and its request and response parameters are specified in IETF RFC 6749 [35].

This information is reproduced using the O-RAN scheme for RESTful API definitions below, with the request data structure represented in Table 4.7.3.2.1-1, the response data structures and response codes represented in Table 4.7.3.2.1-2 and the HTTP headers represented in Table 4.7.3.2.1-3.

| Data Type | P | Cardinality | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| AccessTokenReq | M | 1 | As content specified in IETF RFC 6749 [35]. See also clause 4.7.3.1.2.1. The content type is " application/x-www-form-urlencoded". |

| Data Type | P | Cardinality | Response codes | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| AccessTokenRsp | M | 1 | 200 OK | As content specified in IETF RFC 6749 [35]. See also clause 4.7.3.1.2.2. The content type is "application/json". |
| AccessTokenErr | M | 1 | 400 Bad request | As content specified in IETF RFC 6749 [35]. See also clause 4.7.3.1.2.3. The content type is "application/json". |

| Name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Cache-control | string | M | 1 | As content specified in IETF RFC 6749 [35]. |
| Pragma | string | M | 1 | As content specified in IETF RFC 6749 [35]. |

##### Data Model

The following clauses represent the message content to be used by the OAuth2.0 access token API as O-RAN data types in line with the provisions in IETF RFC 6749 [35].

The AccessTokenReq data type represents an access token request to the authorization server. Its attributes are defined by IETF RFC 6749 [35] and reproduced in Table 4.7.3.2.2.1-1.

| Attribute Name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| grant_type | string | M | 1 | As content specified in IETF RFC 6749 [35], section 4.4.2.  In the present document, the only allowed value shall be "client_credentials”. |
| client_id | string | C | 0..1 | As content specified in IETF RFC 6749 [35]. See NOTE. |
| client_secret | string | C | 0..1 | As content specified in IETF RFC 6749 [35]. See NOTE. |
| scope | string | O | 0..1 | As content specified in IETF RFC 6749 [35], section 4.4.2. |
| NOTE: 	As specified in IETF RFC 6749 [35], section 2.1, there are two options for authenticating the clients to the authorization server: HTTP basic authentication and access token request message content. The attributes "client_id" and "client_secret" shall be absent if HTTP basic authentication is used to convey the client credentials as per IETF RFC6749 [35], section 2.3.1, and shall be present otherwise. |  |  |  |  |

The AccessTokenRsp data type represents an access token response from the authorization server. Its attributes are defined by IETF RFC 6749 [35] and reproduced in table 4.7.3.2.2.2-1.

| Attribute Name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| access_token | string | M | 1 | As content specified in IETF RFC 6749 [35], section 5.1. |
| token_type | string | M | 1 | As content specified in IETF RFC 6749 [35], section 5.1. |
| expires_in | integer | O | 0..1 | As content specified in IETF RFC 6749 [35], section 5.1. |
| scope | string | O | 0..1 | As content specified in IETF RFC 6749 [35], section 5.1. |

The AccessTokenErr data type represents an access token error response from the authorization server. Its attributes are defined by IETF RFC 6749 [35] and reproduced in Table 4.7.3.2.2.3-1.

| Attribute Name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| error | string | M | 1 | As content specified in IETF RFC 6749 [35], section 5.2, the following values are valid: "invalid_request", "invalid_client, invalid_grant", "unauthorized_client", "unsupported_grant_type", "invalid_scope." |
| error_description | string | O | 0..1 | As content specified in IETF RFC 6749 [35], section 5.2. |
| error_uri | string | O | 0..1 | As content specified in IETF RFC 6749 [35], section 5.2. |

#### Service operations for Service access request

The service operation is as follows:

- The API Consumer shall access the protected resources by using access token for the service API being invoked as shown in Figure 4.7-5. The access token shall be included in the request as an HTTP header field as specified in IETF RFC 6750 [78], section 2.1.
- The API Producer shall validate the access token and ensure that it has not expired and that its scope covers the requested resource.
- If the token validation is successful, the API Producer shall allow access for the actual resource with the actual request and its parameters. The API Producer shall return the HTTP response as defined for the service API being invoked.
- If the token validation fails due to invalid token or expired token, the API Producer shall return "401 Unauthorized" in line with the provisions in IETF RFC 6750 [78], section 3.
- If the token validation is failed due to insufficient access rights to access the resource, the API Producer shall return “403 Forbidden" in line with the provisions in IETF RFC 6750 [78], section 3.
- In case of any other error, the API Producer shall return the appropriate error as defined by the service API.

## LDAP

LDAP, or the Lightweight Directory Access Protocol, is a widely adopted, unbiased standardized communication protocol that enables the interaction and management of distributed directory data via an IP network. This protocol plays a crucial part in the creation of both intranet and internet applications, as it facilitates the sharing of detailed information about various resources, such as users, systems, networks, services, and applications, across the entire network.

- support LDAP version 3 as specified in [74] and LDAP with StartTLS as specified in[75].
- not support previous versions of LDAP.
StartTLS operation shall be initiated prior to any other LDAP operation and all LDAP data shall be sent only after successful establishment of TLS connection. Requirements for TLS in clause 4.2 shall apply.

## MACsec

The O-RAN interfaces that implement authentication, confidentiality and integrity using MACsec shall support MACsec capabilities according to IEEE Std 802.1AE-2018 [79].

### MACsec Profile

The O-RAN interfaces using MACsec shall support the mandatory cipher suites as specified in IEEE Std 802.1AE-2018 [79] clause 14, Table 14-1—MACsec Cipher Suites.

# Cryptographic operations

Table 5-1outlines the main cryptographic operations involved in the protection of (1) application packages for ensuring their integrity, authenticity and confidentiality (for sensitive artifacts) during delivery, onboarding, and instantiation phases, (2) the communication channel over O-RAN interfaces in terms of authenticity, confidentiality and integrity, and (3) the stored assets within O-RAN system. It contains the allowed list of algorithms, key sizes and standards according to BSI [i.6] , NIST [40], [48] and [i.9] cryptographic guidelines.

| Cryptographic operations | Algorithms | Key sizes | Applicable standards | Usage examples | Note |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Signature generation and verification | RSASSA-PSS RSA_PKCS1_V1_5 | >= 2048-bits | FIPS 186 [42] | For ensuring the integrity and authenticity of application packages during delivery, onboarding, and instantiation phases | Existing code should use PKCS #1 v1.5 padding mode for compatibility only. Implementations may not use null padding. |
| Signature generation and verification | ECDSA NIST-approved curves (P-256, P-384, or P-521) | >= 256-bits | FIPS 186 [42], SP 800-186 [i.8] | For ensuring the integrity and authenticity of application packages during delivery, onboarding, and instantiation phases | Parameter key size for DSA shall not allow the following combination: Bit lengths of L and N parameters L = 2048, N = 224 (BSI TR-02102-1 [i.6] ) |
| Symmetric Encryption/Decryption | AES_128, AES_192 and AES_256 | 128, 192 and 256 bits | FIPS 197 [44], SP 800-38 [i.7]  (operation modes) | For ensuring the confidentiality of data |  |
| Asymmetric Encryption/Decryption | RSAES-OAEP | >= 2048-bits | IETF RFC 8017 [50] | For ensuring the confidentiality of data |  |
| Hashing | SHA-2 family (SHA- 224, SHA-256, SHA-384, SHA-512, SHA-512/224 and SHA-512/256) SHA-3 family (SHA3-224, SHA3-256, SHA3-384, and SHA3-512) | N/A | FIPS 180 [119] for SHA2 FIPS 202 [47] for SHA 3 | For ensuring the integrity  of data |  |
| Random Number Generation (RNG) | DRBGs (CTR_DRBG (AES), HMAC_DRBG (SHA-256), Hash_DRBG (SHA-256)) | N/A | NIST SP 800-90A [i.12]  NIST SP 800-90B [i.13]  NIST SP 800-90C [i.14] | For generating cryptographic keys for encryption and digital signatures.   For creating random nonces for secure operations. |  |
| Random Number Generation (RNG) | System RNG  EXAMPLE: Linux getrandom(), /dev/urandom | N/A | For Linux: BSI [i.16] | For generating unique instance IDs.  For providing secure entropy to seed DRBGs. |  |

The signature operation shall involve X.509-based PKI certificates [74].

The following recommendations should be considered:

- For the protection of cryptographic keys, Hardware Security Modules, or HSMs, should be used.
- Along with HSMs, the principle of least privilege shall be used to protect keys from unauthorized access.
- In case a legacy system does not support ECDSA, RSA signing algorithms should be used instead. Otherwise, the use of the Elliptic curve signing algorithms is recommended.
- If libraries or frameworks are in use that do not support PSS padding scheme, one of the RSA PKCS1 algorithms should be used instead. Otherwise, the use of one of the RSA PSS algorithms is recommended.
- In general, the largest key size available for an algorithm family should be used:
- For RSA, the largest supported key size is 4096 bits.
- For ECDSA, the largest supported key size is 512 bits.
- For AES, the largest supported key size is 256 bits.

# Secure File Transfer protocols

File Transfer management is required in several O-RAN use cases, e.g. for export of log files.

An O-RAN architectural element that implements file management shall support at least one of these secure file transfer protocols: SFTP, FTPES and HTTPS. This is aligned with, for example, how 3GPP specifies File Management in [67] and [68].

SFTP is authenticated with username/password, SSH keys or X.509 certificates. FTPES is authenticated with X.509 certificates. HTTPS is mutually authenticated with X.509 certificates.

## SFTP

O-RAN architectural elements that implement secure file transfer using SFTP shall:

- support secure connection and authentication using SSHv2 Authentication Protocol as defined in IETF RFC 4252 [2], IETF RFC 8308 [107], IETF RFC 9519 [80], IETF RFC 8332 [108] with all O-RAN specific requirements from clause 4.1 in the present document;
- support SFTPv3 as the SFTP Industry Best Practice [65].

## FTPES

O-RAN architectural elements that implement secure file transfer using FTPES shall:

- support secure connection and authentication using TLS with all O-RAN specific requirements from clause 4.2 in the present document;
- support FTPES as defined in IETF RFC 4217 [66], and IETF RFC 8996 [112].

## HTTPS

O-RAN architectural elements that implement secure file transfer using HTTPS shall:

- support secure connection and authentication using TLS with all O-RAN specific requirements from clause 4.2 in the present document;
- support HTTPS as defined in [69].

## A.1 OAuth2.0 API

### A.1.1 Introduction

The Open API for the OAuth2.0 Access Token API specified in clause A.1.2 is based on the API definitions in clause 4.7.3.4.

### A.1.2  OAuth 2.0 Access Token API

openapi: 3.0.3

info:

title: OAuth 2.0 Access Token API

version: 1.0.0

description: |

API for OAuth 2.0.

© 2024, O-RAN ALLIANCE.

All rights reserved.

externalDocs:

description: O-RAN.WG11.SecProtSpecs-R003-v10.00

url: https://www.o-ran.org/specifications

servers:

- url: '{apiRoot}/oauth2/v1'

variables:

apiRoot:

description: apiRoot as defined in in clause 4.4.1 of 3GPP TS 29.501

default: https://example.com

paths:

/token:

post:

description: Token endpoint

operationId: AccessTokenRequest

tags:

- Access Token Request

requestBody:

required: true

content:

application/x-www-formurlencoded:

schema:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/AccessTokenReq'

responses:

'200':

description: Success case 200 OK

content:

application/json:

schema:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/AccessTokenRsp'

headers:

Cache-Control:

$ref: '#/components/headers/cache-control'

Pragma:

$ref: '#/components/headers/pragma'

'400':

description: Error in the Access Token Request

content:

application/json:

schema:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/AccessTokenErr'

components:

schemas:

AccessTokenReq:

description: Contains information related to the access token request

type: object

properties:

grant_type:

description: Represents the Client Credentials grant type

enum: [ client_credentials ]

type: string

client_id:

description: >-

Represents the identity assigned to the client configured in the

authorization server

type: string

client_secret:

description: >-

Represents the secret assigned to the client configured in the

authorization server

type: string

scope:

description: Represents the scope of the access request

type: string

required:

- grant_type

AccessTokenRsp:

description: Contains information related to the access token response

type: object

properties:

access_token:

description: Represents the access token issued by the authorization server

type: string

token_type:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/token_type'

expires_in:

description: Represents the lifetime in seconds of the access token

type: integer

scope:

description: Represents the scope of the access request

type: string

required:

- access_token

- token_type

token_type:

description: As described in clause 6.1.1 of IETF RFC 6750

type: string

enum:

- Bearer

AccessTokenErr:

description: Error returned in the access token response message

type: object

properties:

error:

type: string

enum:

- unauthorized_client

- unsupported_grant_type

- invalid_request

- invalid_scope

- invalid_client

- invalid_grant

error_description:

type: string

error_uri:

type: string

required:

- error

headers:

cache-control:

required: true

schema:

type: string

enum:

- no-store

pragma:

required: true

schema:

type: string

enum:

- no-cache


---

<!-- SOURCE: ORAN-WG11-SharedORU-Security-Analysis-TR.0-R004-v06.00.md -->
---
title: "ORAN-WG11-SharedORU-Security-Analysis-TR.0-R004-v06.00"
---


---

<!-- SOURCE: combined_oran_wg2.md -->
<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG2.AIML-v01.03 (1).md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG2.AIML-v01.03"
---

# 4 1.1 Scope 5
Chapter 1 Introduction

## 1.1 Scope
This Technical Report (TR) has been produced by O-RAN Alliance. TRs are informative but they can contain potential functional requirements that will feed into Techincal Specifications (TS) eventually. The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within O-RAN WG2 and may change following formal O-RAN approval. In the event that O-RAN Alliance decides to modify the contents of the present document, it will be re- released by O-RAN Alliance with an identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as follows:

# 8 Release x.y.z
where: x the first digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

# 11 (the initial approved document will have x=01).
y the second digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been incorporated in the document. z the third digit included only in working versions of the document indicating incremental changes during the editing process. The current document addresses the overall architecture and solution for AI/ML related requirements for the use-cases described in O-RAN WG2 UCR doc [O-RAN-WG2.UCR.02.00.00]. The document provides the terminology, workflow, and requirements, related to AI/ML model training, and its distribution and deployment in the Radio Access Network (RAN).

## 1.2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this text, constitute provisions of the present document.
- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition number, version number, etc.) or non-specific.
- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a
GSM document), a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document in Release 16. [1] 3GPP TR 21.905: “Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications” [2] 3GPP TS 38.401: "NG-RAN; Architecture description". [3] "O-RAN: towards an Open and smart RAN", O-RAN white paper, https://www.o-ran.org/s/O-RAN- Use-Cases-and-Deployment-Scenarios-Whitepaper-February-2020.pdf [4] O-RAN WG2 Use Case and Requirements v02.00 [5] O-RAN WG1 O-RAN Architecture Description - v01.00 [6] Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS), ETSI TS 102 637-2 v1.2.1 [7] https://lfaidata.foundation/projects/adlik/

## 1.3 Definitions and Abbreviations

### 1.3.1 Definition
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].

# 8 NMS: A Network Management System
O-DU: O-RAN Distributed Unit: a logical node hosting RLC/MAC/High-PHY layers based on the 7-2x fronthaul split defined by O-RAN. O-RU: O-RAN Radio Unit: a logical node hosting Low-PHY layer and RF processing based on the 7-2x fronthaul split defined by O-RAN. Non-RT RIC: O-RAN non-real-time RAN Intelligent Controller: a logical function that enables non-real-time control and optimization of RAN elements and resources, AI/ML workflow including model training and updates, and policy-based guidance of applications/features in Near-RT RIC. Near-RT RIC: O-RAN near-real-time RAN Intelligent Controller: a logical function that enables near-real-time control and optimization of RAN elements and resources via fine-grained data collection and actions over E2 interface. O1: Interface between orchestration & management entities (Orchestration/NMS) and O-RAN managed elements, for operation and management, by which FCAPS management, Software management, File management and other similar functions shall be achieved. A1: Interface between Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC to enable policy-driven guidance of Near-RT RIC applications/functions, and support AI/ML workflow. E2: Interface between Near-RT RIC and underlying RAN functions (CU-CP, CU-UP, and DU).

### 1.3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP

# 27 TR 21.905 [1].
eNB eNodeB (applies to LTE) gNB gNodeB (applies to NR)

# 30 O-DU O-RAN Distributed Unit

# 3 RIC O-RAN RAN Intelligent Controller

# 4 Non-RT RIC Non-real-time RIC

# 5 Near-RT RIC Near-RT RIC

# 6 QoE Quality of Experience

# 7 KQI Key Quality Indicator

# 8 KPI Key performance indicator

# 9 CNN Convolutional neural network

# 10 PCA principal components analysis

# 11 RL reinforcement learning

# 12 DRL deep reinforcement learning

# 13 GPU graphics processing unit

# 14 KNN k nearest neighbors

# 15 LSTM long short-term memory

# 16 ML machine learning

# 17 NN neural network

# 18 RL reinforcement learning

# 19 RNN recurrent neural network

# 20 SMO service management and orchestration

# 21 SVM support vector machine
Chapter 2 Machine Learning Machine learning is a field of study that provides computers the ability to learn without being explicitly programmed. The ability to learn useful information from input data can help improve RAN or network performance. For example, convolutional neural networks and recurrent neural networks can extract spatial features and sequential features from time-varying signal strength indicators (e.g., RSSI). This chapter introduces some of the common terminology related to AI/ML based use-cases development in context of O-

# 7 RAN architecture.

# 9 Table 1 - Common terminology
Definitions Note/example Application: An application is a complete and deployable Generally, an AI/ML application should package, environment to achieve a certain function in an contain a logically top-level AI/ML operational environment. An AI/ML application is one that model and application-level descriptions contains some AI/ML models. ML-assisted Solution: A solution which addresses a specific use As an example, video optimization using case using Machine-Learning algorithms during operation. ML is an ML-assisted solution. ML Model: The ML methods and concepts used by the ML- ML models include supervised learning, assisted solution. unsupervised learning, reinforcement Depending on the implementation a specific ML model could learning, deep neural network, and have many sub-models as components and the ML model should depending on use-case, appropriate ML train all sub-models together. model has to be chosen. Separately trained ML models can also be chained together in a ML pipeline during inference. ML Workflow: A ML workflow is the process consisting of data Based on ML model chosen, some or all collection and preparation, model building, model training, of the phases of workflow will be model deployment, model execution, model validation, included. continuous model self-monitoring and self-learning/retraining related to ML-assisted solutions ML (model) Life-cycle: The life-cycle of the ML model includes These are operational phases: the initial deployment, instantiation and termination of ML model training, inference, possible re-training components. ML Pipeline: The set of functionalities, functions, or functional a ML pipeline may consist of one or entities specific for an ML-assisted solution. several data sources in a data pipeline, a model training pipeline, a model evaluation pipeline and an actor. ML Training Host: The network function which hosts the Non-RT RIC can also be a training host. training of the model, including offline and online training ML training can be performed offline using data collected from the RIC, O-DU and O-RU. ML Inference Host: The network function which hosts the ML The ML inference host often coincides model during inference mode (which includes both the model with the Actor. The ML-host informs the execution as well as any online learning if applicable). actor about the output of the ML algorithm, and the Actor takes a decision for an action. Actor: The entity which hosts an ML assisted solution using the output of ML model inference. Action: An action performed by an actor as a result of the output of an ML assisted solution. Subject of Action: The entity or function which is configured, controlled, or informed as result of the action. Model training information: Information needed for training the This is the data of the ML model ML model. including the input plus optional labels for supervised training Model inference information: Information needed as input for The data needed by an ML model for the ML model for inference. training and inference may largely overlap, however they are logically different. Model compiling info: Information needed for compiling the It includes the trained ML model , model ML model. inference host info, and other possible requirements for model compiling, e.g., acceptable accuracy loss thresholds, any specific operations to be performed. Model inference host info: Information of the inference host This may include information e.g., needed as model compiling info. network bandwidth, memory and computing capabilities of the inference host. Model Compiling Host: Optional network function which Model compiling involves hardware- compiles the trained model into specific format for optimized specific optimization to achieve inference execution in an inference host based on the compiling improved computing and memory information . efficiency. According to different deployment methods, the compiled model could be published to the model store/ management module as a containerized image (including Inference Engine and compiled models) or a compiled model file format，and then deployed to the inference host. Non-RT RIC can also be a compiling host. ML compiling can be performed offline. Model Inference Engine: The specific inference framework used The functions of model inference engine to run a compiled model in the inference host. includes parsing model files, splitting operations, and executing inference instruction stream to finish ML model inference calculation and return inference result. Model Management: The network function that manages the Model management manages models that ML models to be deployed in the inference host. are onboarded directly from ML training host or those from ML compiling jost when model comiling is executed after training. Data Discovery: Data discovery uses smart tools to collect data The general process includes data from multiple sources and then consolidate them to a single collecting, data cleansing, data loading, source for easy use. data transforming, data mining and data visualization Data Augmentation: Data augmentation could be used to There are two types of data: enhance the model generalization and reduce overfitting, Time series data: augmentation with especially when dataset is limited or imbalance exists. consideration of event distribution pattern in temporal space Non-time series data: augmentation with physical constraint Data Labelling: Data labelling is a time-consuming task and The labelled data should be validated needs domain knowledge. The platform should provide or crossly, and some label mistakes should integrate various labelling/ auto-labelling tools for offline/online be eliminated annotation. Feature Engineering: At the beginning of model design, we need Design the feature extraction mechanism, to study and define what kinds of features could be learnt to such as learning from multiple modalities, or learning from single modality, etc. Meanwhile, we need to represent the objectives or data, and what kinds of actions should define which features could be leveraged be used to for better prediction performance. and which could be fused with other features. Nowadays, end2end system building is emerging also, but raw data is also a kind of feature in this context. This is an optional operation for model training. Model Selection: When initiating a training task, ML designer For model design, the following factors will assess the cost and resources for training or inference, such should be considered: as hardware platform to inference, GPU memory, inference speed, training accuracy, training time, etc. Based on those  ML meta architecture for specific tasks requirements analysis, the system can select the corresponding  ML/DL framework configurations for training or inference. (pytorch, tensorflow, caffe, etc.)  Data format of input and output  Requirements on model performance (accuracy, responding time, real-time factor, etc.)  Model footprint and HW platform (ARM, GPU, CPU, FPGA, etc.)  Task requirements Model Optimization: Model optimization refers to the efforts to For example, using auto machine optimize model performance. Optimizing models based on learning (AutoML) to optimize the certain hardware or performance metrics requirements hyperparameters or deep learning neural networks (DNN, CNN, RNN, etc.) structure. Optimization Metrics:  Model size  Memory used  Inference speed  Accuracy (precision/recall, etc.) Hardware platform processing capability, etc. According to the hardware platform running models, model compression could also be involved as one of optimization technique. Model Compression: With specific real-time requirement and At this stage, the system will check the hardware constraints, inference engine running on edge device model requirements and running for example, model compression will be critical and a must to hardware platform to decide which further reduce the model footprint and therefore to speed up the compression strategy that could be inference engine. adopted. The training process will be integrated with compression to generate the satisfied models Model Training: Model training should consider the training Meanwhile, the training process should platform capability, available resources and energy be monitored to see whether the process consumption for training is converged or collect key information, such as memory used, loss, accuracy, etc. Model Testing: Model testing refers to validate model It could include the validation process performance with testing data and real testing in product environment. With model testing, we can understand the trained model capability in product environment, and also possible defects. Model Deployment: Model deployment should fully consider Data input/output should also be the inference hardware capability and stability. considered to reduce I/O delay. Inference Monitoring: Monitoring inference process and collect ML system/model key messages. Model Refine: After deploying a model for certain time, the model should be refined based on the test results or feedback from the test loop due to the shifting of data distribution, changing of environment, accumulated errors, etc. Continuous Operations: Provides a series of online functionalities for the continuous improvement of AI/ML models within the whole AI/ML lifecycle. It includes Verification/Monitoring /Analysis /Recommendation /Continue Optimization. Verification: Verified the model performance online in the real deployed environment Analysis: Includes data analysis, data/label conflict analysis, performance prediction, business insight etc. Recommendation : Co-work with analysis to provide continuous improvements recommendations. Continuous Optimization: Provides AI pipeline optimization, Decision optimization etc. during AI/ML LCM. Figure 1 depicts the use of the ML components and terminologies as described in Table 1.

## 2.3 Types of AI
Today, AI systems have been able to accomplish certain tasks with a level of accuracy surpassing that of humans. These achievements have been within the scope of narrow AI. However, narrow AI faces challenges and gaps when being applied in real world production environment in scale. For example, most AI systems currently require enormous amounts of data to train machine learning or deep learning models and they have little ability to transfer the knowledge gained through learning from one task to another. To make AI in real-life production environment, we need evolve our AI technologies from narrow AI into advanced, trusted, and scalable AI as shown inFigure 2-1.  Advancing AI: Powering advances in perception, reasoning, and understanding to help AI address complex human-like tasks.  Trusting AI: Novel techniques to instrument key dimensions of trust and enable AI solutions that inspire confidence.  Scaling AI: Novel technologies across the full computing stack that make AI faster, easier, and able to scale to larger and more complex problems. Advancing AI core algorithms for mastering language, learning and Advancing AI From reasoning narrow to Trusting AI through fairness, broad AI robustness, explainability, and Trusting AI transparency Operationalizing Scaling AI by managing, operating Scaling AI AI at scale & automating its lifecycle Figure 2-1 - From Narrow AI to Advanced, Trusted, and Scalable AI Chapter 3 Types of Machine Learning algorithms This section provides a view of how the different ML algorithms can be deployed and realized in O-RAN architecture. It does not detail or recommend the various machine learning algorithms available or recommend specific ML algorithms that should be applied to the use-cases realized in O-RAN architecture.

## 3.1 Supervised learning
Input data is called training data and has a known label or result. Supervised learning is a machine learning task that aims to learn a mapping function from the input to the output, given a labeled data set.

# 9 1. Regression: Linear Regression, Logistic Regression

# 10 2. Instance-based Algorithms: k-Nearest Neighbor (KNN)

# 11 3. Decision Tree Algorithms: CART

# 12 4. Support Vector Machines: SVM

# 13 5. Bayesian Algorithms: Naive Bayes
6. Ensemble Algorithms: Extreme Gradient Boosting, Bagging: Random Forest Supervised learning can be further grouped into Regression and Classification problems. Classification is about predicting a label whereas Regression is about predicting a quantity. Figure 3-1 Supervised learning model training and actor locations In supervised learning (seeFigure 3-1), Non-RT RIC is part of the SMO and thus is part of the management layer. ML training host and ML model host/actor can be part of Non-RT RIC or Near-RT RIC.

## 3.2 Unsupervised learning
Input data is not labeled and does not have a known result. Unsupervised learning is a machine learning task that aims to learn a function to describe a hidden structure from unlabeled data. Some examples of unsupervised learning are K-means clustering and principal component analysis (PCA). Figure 3-2 - Unsupervised learning model training and actor locations In unsupervised learning (seeFigure 3-2), ML training host and ML model host/actor can be part of Non-RT RIC or Near-RT

# 4 RIC.

## 3.3 Reinforcement learning
A goal-oriented learning based on interaction with environment. In reinforcement learning (RL), the agent aims to optimize a long-term objective by interacting with the environment based on a trial and error process. The most typical RL framework is based on Markov Decision Process (MDP), which is defined by a 4-tuple (S, A, R, T), where:  S is the state space of an environment  A is the set of actions an agent can select from

# 11  R is the reward function

# 12  T is the transition probability function
There are multiple ways to categorize RL algorithms, and one widely used classification is: model-based RL vs. model-free RL. In wireless network, it might be beneficial to rely on a model for predicting future behavior of the environment. In model based RL algorithms, reward and transition probability is based on a predictive model of the environment. The agent uses the model to find out what will happen if an action is taken. On the other hand, the model of the environment might not be of interest or hard to obtain for some use cases. Model-free algorithms forgo any explicit knowledge of the dynamics of the environment and evaluate how good actions are through exploration and exploitation. RL algorithms can also be categorized into value-based RL vs. policy-based RL, on-policy RL vs. off-policy RL, etc. There are several RL algorithms

# 20  Q-learning

# 21  Multi-armed bandit learning

# 22  Deep Q Network

# 23  State-Action-Reward-State-Action (SARSA)

# 24  Temporal Difference learning

# 25  Actor-critic reinforcement learning

# 26  Deep deterministic policy gradient

# 27  Trust region policy optimization

# 28  Dyna-Q

# 29  Monte-Carlo tree search
Figure 3-3- Reinforcement learning model training and actor locations For reinforcement learning (seeFigure 3-3a), ML training host and ML model host/actor shall be co-located as part of Non- RT RIC . For online RL in the Near-RT RIC (see Figure 3-3b), ML training host and ML model host/actor shall be co-located as part of Near-RT RIC. For offline RL (see Figure 3-3c), ML training host is located as part of Non-RT RIC, and ML model host/actor is located as part of Near-RT RIC. The offline trained model is updated based on the performance monitoring of the interaction between the ML model host/actor (RL agent) and the RAN environment.

## 3.4 Mapping AI/ML functionalities into O-RAN control loops
There are three types of control loops defined in O-RAN. ML assisted solutions fall into the three control loops. Time scale of O-RAN control loops depend on what is being controlled, e.g., system parameters, resources or radio resource management (RRM) algorithm parameters. For example, if O-RAN control loop adapts the parameters of RRM algorithms, its time scale is slower than that of the RRM algorithm which directly controls resource. Loop 1 deals with per TTI msec level scheduling and operates at a time scale of the TTI or above. Loop 2 operates in the near RT RIC operating within the range of 10-1000 msec. Loop 3 operates in the Non-RT RIC at greater than 1000 msec (policies, orchestration). It is not expected that these loops are hierarchical but can instead run in parallel.

## 3.5 Federated learning
Federated learning is a well-known distributed learning methodology where multiple AI/ML entities collaboratively train an AI/ML model. Instead of gathering training data into a central server, federated learning keeps the training data decentralized to mitigate privacy risks. AI/ML models are trained locally in distributed entities, and the local models are aggregated by a central server. The central server orchestrates the federated learning. In O-RAN architecture, since both Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC are capable of AI/ML training, the Non-RT RIC can serve as the central server in the federated learning, and its connected Near-RT RICs can serve as distributed AI/ML entities as illustrated in Figure 3-5.

## 4.1 AI/ML General Lifecycle Procedure and Interface Framework
This chapter first provides the general framework of AI/ML procedure and interfaces, which addresses the ML components rather than network functions (Non/Near-RT RIC, etc.). The potential mapping relationship between the ML components and network functions, interfaces defined in O-RAN are also illustrated in Figure 4-1.

# 9 Figure 4-1 - AI/ML General Procedure
Note: ML capabilities shall be stored in the management system (FFS). Query and Discovery of ML capabilities are terminated in the management system but not shown. ML inference host often coincides with the actor Note:”AI/ML Training” in the Figure 4-1 indicates “Training” only. (currently does not include re-training) As Model Management/Data Preparation/AI/ML Training are implementation variability components, there are many combinations of the deployment scenarios. The typical deployment scenarios that are considered for AI/ML architecture/framework in O-RAN architecture are: 1. Deployment Scenario 1.1: AI/ML Continuous Operation/AI/ML Model Management/Data Preparation/ AI/ML Training and AI/ML Inference are all in Non-RT RIC 2. Deployment Scenario 1.2: AI/ML Continuous Operation/Data Preparation (for training)/AI/ML Training are in Non- RT RIC, AI/ML Model Management is out of Non-RT RIC (in or out of SMO). Data Collection (for inference)/Data

# 3 Preparation (for inference)/AI/ML Inference is in Near-RT RIC
3. Deployment Scenario 1.3: AI/ML Continuous Operation/AI/ML Inference are in Non-RT RIC. Data Preparation/AI/ML Training / AI/ML Model Management are out of Non-RT RIC (in or out of SMO). 4. Deployment Scenario 1.4: Non-RT RIC acts as the ML training host for offline model training and the Near-RT RIC as the ML training host for online learning and ML inference host. 5. Deployment Scenario 1.5: Continuous Operation/Model management/Data Preparation/ML Training host are in Non-RT RIC. O-CU/O-DU act as the ML inference host (for FFS). Note: Deployment of "AI/ML Continuous Operation" outside of non-RT RIC is in study and FFS エラー! 参照元が見つかりません。 shows the various deployment scenarios and interfaces.

# 12 Table 2 - AI/ML deployment scenarios
Deploymen Data AI/ML AI/ML Model Continuou Subjec Action from inference Enrichmen t Scenario Preparatio Training Inferenc Managemen s t of host to subject t data for n e t Operation Action inference Config Policy / Mgmt. Control (CM) Scenario 1.1 Non-RT Non-RT Non-RT Non-RT RIC Non-RT Near- O1 A1 SMO RIC RIC RIC RIC RT RIC internal (policy) O-CU, O1 N/A SMO O-DU, internal O-RU Scenario 1.2 Non-RT Non-RT Near-RT Out of Non- Non-RT Near- near- near-RT RIC A1 RIC and RIC RIC RT RIC RIC RT RIC RT internal Near-RT RIC RIC interna l O-CU, N/A E2 E2 (if O-DU, (control/policy applicable) O-RU ) Scenario 1.3 Out of Non- Out of Non-RT Out of Non- Non-RT Near- near- near-RT RIC A1 RT RIC Non-RT RIC RT RIC RIC RT RIC RT internal RIC RIC interna l O-CU, FFS FFS FFS O-DU, O-RU Scenario 1.4 Non-RT SMO/Non Near-RT Non-RT RIC Near-RT Near- Near- Near-RT RIC A1 RIC and -RT RIC RIC and Near-RT RIC RT RT internal Near-RT for offline RIC RIC RIC RIC training interna l Near-RT RIC for online O-CU, N/A E2 E2 (if learning O-DU, (control/policy applicable) O-RU ) Scenario 1.5 Non-RT Non-RT O-CU / Non-RT RIC Non-RT O-CU, FFS FFS FFS (FFS) RIC RIC O-DU RIC O-DU, O-RU Note: Configuration management for scenario 1.2 and 1.4 via E2 are FFS; Non-RT RIC can use SMO internal interfaces to trigger configuration changes over O1 Note 2: ML model transfer between Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC over A1 interface is FFS. Based on the framework, some key phases of machine learning are expected to be applied to any ML-assisted solution planned in O-RAN architecture. Any use case defined for ML-assisted solution shall have one or more phases (as applicable) and the phases are defined below:

# 9 1. ML model and inference host capability query/discovery
This procedure shall be executed whenever AI/ML model is to be used for ML-assisted solution. This procedure can be executed at start-up or run-time (when a new ML model is to be executed or existing ML model is to be updated). The SMO/Non-RT RIC will discover various capabilities and properties of the ML inference host, and the ML-assisted solution such as: a) Processing capability of the inference host (for example: dedicated resources such as CPU/GPU, memory etc. for ML model inference). b) Requirements on the ML assisted solutions such as execution time cap, delay sensitivity c) Properties such as supported ML model formats and ML engines (for example: Protobuf, JSON, or any ONAP specific

# 18 VES data formats).
d) NFVI based architecture support in MF to run ML model(s) e) Data-sources available to run ML-pipeline (for example: support for data streams, data lake, or any specific database access) This discovery of the capabilities and properties shall be used to check: a) if an ML model can be executed in the target ML inference host (MF), b) which ML models can be executed in the MF. Note: Exact mechanism and contents of capabilities discovery is FFS.

# 3 2. ML model Training and Generation
This procedure corresponds to design time selection and training of a ML model in relation with a specific ML-assisted solution (use case) to be executed. The ML designer or the SMO/Non-RT RIC will select and onboard the ML model and relevant meta data into the ML training host. Utilizing on the ML training data collection, the ML training host will initiate the model training. Once the model is trained and validated, it is published back in the SMO/Non-RT RIC catalogue. In addition, new trained ML models for a given ML-assisted solution can be generated also by modification techniques such as compression, truncation etc., or training on different training data sets. These ML models are also published in the SMO/Non-

# 10 RT RIC catalogue.

# 11 3. ML model Selection
The ML designer can check whether a trained ML model from the SMO/Non-RT RIC catalogue can be deployed in the ML inference host for the given ML-assisted solution, by mapping the ML model and ML assisted solution requirements to performance capabilities discovered from Step 1. Upon successful validation, ML designer will inform the SMO/Non-RT

# 15 RIC to initiate model deployment.

# 16 4. ML model Deployment and Inference
The AI/ML model that is selected for the ML use case can be deployed via containerized image to MF where ML model shall be running. The container image also includes the necessary configuration of ML inference host with the AI/ML model description file. Note: The O1 interface mechanism for ML model deployment is being specified by WG1. Once the ML model is deployed and activated, ML online data shall be used for inference in ML-assisted solutions, which includes: a) 3GPP specific events/counters (across all different Managed Elements) over O1/E2 interface a. Events: 3GPP 32.423 b. Counters: 3GPP 32.425 b) Non-3GPP specific events/counters (across all different Managed Elements) over O1/E2 interface (to be defined in O-

# 27 RAN WGs)
c) Enrichment information from Non-RT RIC over A1 interface (to be defined in O-RAN WGs) Based on the output of the ML model, the ML-assisted solution will inform the Actor to take the necessary actions towards the Subject. These could include CM changes over O1 interface, policy management over A1 interface, or control actions or policies over E2 interface, depending on the location of ML inference host and Actor.

# 32 5. ML model performance monitoring
The ML inference host and actors are expected to feedback or report the performance of the ML model to the SMO/Non-RT RIC so that the SMO/Non-RT RIC can monitor the performance (e.g., accuracy, running time, network KPIs) of the ML model and potentially update the model or reselect the model to be executed. Based on the use-case, specific set of data as applicable for use-case shall be used for ML model re-training. Based on the performance evaluation, either some guidance can be provided to use a different model in the ML inference host, or a notification can be sent indicating the need for retraining the model. Note: Feedback mechanism and how the ML model switching can occur at runtime is FFS.

# 6 6. ML model retraining update
Based on the feedback and data received from various MFs and actors, the SMO/Non-RT RIC can inform the ML designer that an update is required to the current model. The ML designer will initiate the model selection and training step, but with the existing trained model. Once the model has been retrained, it will be deployed as described in Step 3, and the updated model will be used for ML inference.

# 11 7. ML model reselection
Based on the feedback and data received from various MFs and actors, the SMO/Non-RT RIC can inform the ML designer or the the respective module that the running ML model does not comply with the requirements (e.g., because the HW capabilities of the ML inference host or the execution time/delay constraints have changed) and thus a different ML model is necessary to drive the ML application. The SMO/Non-RT RIC or the ML designer selects a suitable ML model from the ML model catalogue and deploys it in the ML inference host as in Step 4.

# 17 8. ML model termination
In certain scenarios involving severe degradation in the ML model performance, a simple model update and redeployment may not be the suitable option. To avoid large impact on network, malfunctioning ML models (or models that are degrading) need to be terminated. Non-RT RIC needs to have access to ML model’s termination conditions to determine whether a ML model is working properly or not. Termination conditions are regarded as ML model attributes. For example, if a ML model is used to predict QoE, then one termination condition for this ML model could be “when the prediction accuracy is below a certain threshold”. Typically, the statistical properties of a target variable, which the model is trying to predict, changes over time (i.e., drift) in unforeseen ways. This causes problems because the prediction become less accurate as time passes. In another example, if a ML model is used to optimize handover sequences, then one possible termination condition could be “when the generated neighbor relation table leads to an increase in number of handover ping pongs or handover failures above a certain threshold”. Network KPI monitoring can be used as general termination conditions for an AI/ML model to detect anomaly, i.e., when the performance of a model does not meet its baseline. For AI/ML-assisted solutions, there are at least following scenarios: 1. A single ML model (for one application/use case) impacts the monitored network KPIs 2. Multiple ML models are chained together in one application/use case, and these models collectively contribute to the monitored network KPIs 3. Multiple ML models for different applications/use cases contribute to the monitored network KPIs Mechanism to identify malfunctioning ML model varies for the above scenarios. For scenario 1, network KPI degradation would serve as a good indicator for ML model performance degradation. However, for scenario 2 and 3, it might be hard to pin-point the degraded model(s) only based on the network KPI monitoring. Different approaches can be used to address scenario 2 and 3. For example, Non-RT RIC could first identify candidate models that may be causing the network KPI degradation, and then Non-RT RIC could terminate these suspect models one by one until the RAN performance gets back to normal. Another approach could be that Non-RT RIC decides to terminate all relevant AI/ML models at the same time. Figure 4-2. ML model termination based on performance monitoring at Non-RT RIC As illustrated in Figure 4-2, AI/ML model performance monitoring is assumed to be placed in the Non-RT RIC. Based on the model performance monitoring, the Non-RT RIC can calculate performance metrics and compare them against termination conditions of a model. If the termination conditions are met, the model termination procedure should be triggered. In the ML model termination procedure, ML inference host, which can be in Non-RT RIC or Near-RT RIC based on deployment scenarios, would receive termination commands requesting to stop the ML inference. A backup solution, which can be another well trained and tested ML model, a slightly modified version of the given ML model (e.g., compressed or less compressed versions, truncated or less truncated versions etc.), or, more conservatively, a non-AI-based algorithm, needs to be provided to ML inference host. After terminating the model and activating the backup solution, the ML inference host should send out messages to acknowledge the commands. The above discussion is summarized in Figure 4-3.

# 16 Figure 4-3. ML model termination procedure
For deployment scenario 1.1, where Non-RT RIC acts as inference host, termination/backup activation commands and acknowledgements would be communicated via SMO internal interface. On the other hand, for deployment scenario 1.2, in which AI/ML model is deployed in the Near-RT RIC, whether the termination command and acknowledgement should be carried over O1 or A1 is left for further study. Moreover, how SMO/Non-RT RIC could delegate model performance monitoring and the decision making on ML model termination to the Near-RT RIC is also left for further study. Other deployment scenarios, e.g., in which inference host could be in O-CU/O-DU, are FFS.

## 4.2 Model Design and Composition
ML model design is the first step to conceiving the initial model. This requires connecting to data sources, parsing messages and tokenizing to create and select features. This activity is offline and requires data exploration mechanisms to help the model designer. One question to address for complex problem spaces is whether to design the solution as a single model with many inputs, or as a chain of modular models. These two approaches can be seen in the figures below. A chain of models provides a more modular solution that can facilitate reusability. For example, another model X may be shown to produce a better prediction A-out by considering an additional input m. In such a case, model A can be replaced with model X without the need for retraining or otherwise modifying models B or C. On the other hand, in a chaining approach any errors in the prediction A-out will be propagated to model C, perhaps resulting in a less accurate prediction C-out than produced by the Single model approach shown below.

# 17 Figure 4-4 - Chained modular models
A single model allows machine learning to have access to all inputs, which can detect unexpected data relationships and perhaps lead to a more accurate overall model.

# 21 Figure 4-5 - Single model with many inputs
Note that the predicted values A-out and B-out are not directly available to the single model C’ whereas they are available to the chained model C. However, the model C’ could be designed to derive these in the same way models A and B did in the chained approach. Note also that inputs a, b, c, d, e and f are not directly available to as inputs to model C, only the predicted values A-out and B-out. If they are not needed, then the chained approach may work well and achieve the desired modularity. In this case on would expect models C and C’ to produce equivalent “C-out” predictions. If, however, it turns out that the raw variables c and d are also useful for a good prediction by model C, then the chained approach may not yield as good a prediction as the single model C’ approach might which has access to those inputs. Of course such a problem could be mitigated by also providing input values c and d to model C as shown below. Figure 4-6 - Chained modular models with common inputs As an example of a chained model, consider a business problem that attempts to predict when a UE’s serving cell QoE will deteriorate to an unacceptable level, and also predicts when each of the neighbor cell’s QoE reaches an acceptable level. Such a prediction would be used it to determine when to trigger a handover, as well as to select among the various handover cell options. One way to design such a solution would be as follows:  A: RF signal strength predictor – Predicts RF signal KPIs a UE would experience with a neighbor cell at the current time “x”, as well as predict the signal strength that same UE would experience with both its current serving cell and its neighbor cells at time “x+Δ”.  B: Cell utilization predictor – Predicts the cell utilization KPIs for both the serving and neighbor cells above at time

# 21 “x+Δ”.
 C: QoE predictor – Predicts the QoE KPIs that a UE would experience at time “x+Δ” for both its current serving and neighbor cells. Such a modular approach could be desirable in that other uses for RF signal strength prediction and cell utilization prediction might be envisioned other than to predict UE future QoE. Also, a modular approach would allow each of the prediction models to evolve separately. For example, cell utilization predictor “B” might be improved by including as input trending information or venue schedule information among its inputs without having to retrain a single model “C’”. Or an RF signal prediction model might be improved based on inputs capturing the UEs predicted travel path based on commute patterns. However, in order for such a chained approach to work, the variables available to the QoE predictor must be carefully considered. Whether a chained or a single model approach would be better for solving such a business problem would require analysis that is beyond the intended scope of this paper and will be left as an exercise for the reader.

## 4.3 Model Runtime Access to Data
In the prior section we noted that the value of chaining models is the modularity which can be realized. In Figure 4-4 for example, the models A, B, and C could be improved upon and replaced independent of each other. Such modularity could facilitate a marketplace whereby different vendors produce different modular solutions in the predictive space, allowing service providers to select from among the various models with the best predictive abilities for their specific environment. Because such marketplace vendors would want to provide complete solutions and not simply ML models, we will extend the concepts in the last section to apply also to applications. We will thus in this section re-interpret figures Figure 4-4, Figure 4-5, Figure 4-6 as representing applications A, B, C and C’ which contain the models in question. Extending the discussion of the prior section, there can be scenarios in which two separate applications require access to the same data. This was seen in Figure 4-6 with applications A and C sharing input c and B and C sharing input d. Because such sharing of inputs may be common it would be wise to avoid an approach in which applications are seen as “owning” data. In addition, independence of the applications is impacted if one is aware of the inputs required of the other. For example, in Figure 4-6 as drawn, application A can be seen as knowing that application C requires Predication A-out as input. If application C was changed to no longer require Prediction A-out as input, then application A would need to be appropriately modified. Such coupling of applications negatively impacts overall solution modularity. Rather, a better paradigm might be one in which data is commonly held by all applications, those applications being granted access to the data that they require. This common repository for the data along with the mechanism for making that data accessible to each application through some mechanism can be thought of as being the “platform” that underlies the

# 25 “applications.”
Figure 4-7 illustrates a re-imaging of Figure 4-6 with such an approach in mind Figure 4-7 - Chained modular models with common inputs With such an approach, applications can be created independently with their own independent descriptors. When an application is loaded, it could “register” with the Platform to declare what types of data it consumes and what types of data it produces. For example, when application A is loaded, its descriptor would be used to declare that it consumes as input variables a, b and c and that it writes Prediction A-out. If the consumed variables are standard attributes that the Platform knows how to obtain (e.g., E2 data), it could respond that those input variables are available through the Platform. Later application A could send a formal “subscription” request with more information (such as the specific geographic “scope” from which to collect that input) to have the Platform actually start providing those values. Regarding the produced variables (e.g., A-out), the Platform could assign some space in the common data repository for that output to be written. The Platform might also perform some added value validations to ensure that no other registered application also produces/writes that same variable, or if it does to ensure that the two application instances work within different “scopes” (e.g., geography). Extending our example, when application C is loaded its descriptor would be used to declare that it reads as input variables g, Prediction A-out and Prediction B-out. Variable g, being standard in our example, would be treated as described above. The Platform could also respond that input variable Prediction A-out is also available through the Platform. However, if application B had not yet been loaded and registered, the Platform would respond that no source for Prediction B-out can be found. Perhaps application C has been written such that Prediction B-out is optional input. In this case application C would respond as such and processing would proceed. When application B was later loaded and registered, the Platform could notify all applications of new functionality being available. At that point application C could decide to re-register, again asking for a source for Prediction B-out, this time with favorable results. Thus, the Platform could provide some added value services to ensure that applications are loaded and registered in the proper order. The above described Platform responsibilities with respect to application registration. Now we can address data subscription. Let’s return to our example in the prior section whereby application A is an RF signal predictor, application B a cell utilization predictor and application C a UE QoE predictor. Perhaps the service provider considers cell utilization prediction to be a fundamental need that should be always “on” for all cells. The service provider would thus configure application B or provide it some policy (e.g., received across an A1-P interface) to generate these predictions, specifying the prediction interval. Application B would then send a “subscribe” request to the Platform asking for variables d, e and f including the desired measurement interval. As part of this “subscription” request Application B would also indicate that it will begin writing Prediction B-out with a certain measurement interval. The Platform would determine if these variables are already in the common data repository or not, and if not the Platform would go about securing them (e.g., by sending an E2 SUBSCRIBE request to the appropriate RAN network functions). The Platform would forward to application B the data content found in the data respository that matches that application’s subscription request. Upon having secured its input data, application B would continuously be writing Prediction B-out to the common data repository. For applications A and C, however, perhaps the service provider only wants prediction for a certain set of UEs. One way to accomplish this is for service provider to configure application C or provide it some policy describing the UE set of interest as well as the prediction interval. Application C subscription of its input variable g would proceed with the Platform in the same way as was described above for Application B. Application C would also subscribe to input variables Prediction A-out and Prediction B-out with a certain measurement interval, the former including a descriptor of the UE set of interest. For Prediction B-out, the Platform would determine that those values are already in the common data repository with the desired measurement interval and forward that content to application C. For Prediction A-out, however, the Platform would determine that there is no data in the common data repository, nor is there any application that has subscribed to write it. The Platform would then identify the application that has registered for writing this data type, in this case application A, and forward to it the subscription request information to that application A. (Note that this is the local equivalent functionality of the Platform sending the E2 SUBSCRIBE request to the RAN for the application B subscription request.) Application A would receive the Prediction A-out subscription request, including the measurement interval and UE set of interest, and determine what the implications are for its own data needs. It would then send to the Platform a subscription request asking for variables a, b and c along with the measurement interval and UEs of interest. It would also declare its intention to begin writing Prediction A-out with a certain measurement interval. Assuming that the Platform does not find this data already in the common data repository, it would go about securing it (e.g., via an E2 SUBSCRIBE request), forwarding the resultant data values to application A. At that point application A would begin writing Prediction A-out to the common data repository, which the Platform would in turn begin forwarding to application C.

## 4.4 Data, Model Training and Model Evaluation pipeline
This section describes the data, model training and evaluation pipelines.

# 7 Figure 4-9 - Model training and evaluation pipelines
Figure 4-9 shows the model training and evaluation pipelines. Model training pipeline may change with model types. Model evaluation pipeline, however, is a more generic process. Model evaluation can be used to evaluate a single model or extended to select the best model from a range of models.

# 11 The end-to-end training process includes the following
- Fulfills the data requirements of the model (format, sample distribution, extent)
- Connects with requisite data via Data Pipeline (simplest ex: a data broker)
- Partitions data into appropriate sets (training, validation, testing, sample)
- Keeps Training data cached for error recovery and subsequent usage

# 16 • Manages model training though all phases
- Implements training by invoking a Model Training Pipeline
- Training Client tunes model parameters during training phases
- Scoring client monitors performance in order to declare training phase complete
- Communicates with license manager for usage and versioning

## 4.5 ML Model Lifecycle Implementation Example
The section provides an example (see Figure 4-10) of ML model lifecycle implementation example and key phases involved in the design and deployment in O-RAN architecture. Figure 4-10 - ML model lifecycle (an implementation example) Note: ML Model capability query and discovery can occur in ML designer and Non-RT RIC. The typical steps involved in AL/ML based use-case application in O-RAN architecture is shown in Figure 4-10 considering supervised/unsupervised learning ML models. The steps for reinforcement model could vary with respect to ML training host and the related interaction flows. 1. ML Modeler uses a designer environment along with ML toolkits (e.g., scikit-learn, R, H2O, Keras, TensorFlow) to create the initial ML model 2. The initial model is sent to training hosts for training 3. The appropriate data sets are collected from the Near-RT RIC, O-CU and O-DU to a data lake and passed to the ML training hosts. 4. The trained model/sub models are uploaded to the ML designer catalog (one such open source catalog platform is

# 20 AcumosAI). The final ML model is composed.
5. The ML model is published to Non-RT RIC along with the associated license and metadata. 6. Non-RT RIC creates a containerized ML application containing the necessary model artifacts (when using AcumosAI, the ML model’s container is created in Acumos catalog itself). 7. Non-RT RIC deploys the ML application to the Near-RT RIC, O-DU and O-CU using the O1 interface. Policies are also set using the A1 interface. 8. PM data is sent back to ML training hosts from Near-RT RIC, O-DU and O-CU for retraining. Note that Near-RT RIC can also update ML model parameters at runtime (e.g., gradient descent) without going through extensive retraining. Training hosts and ML designers can also be part of Non-RT RIC. Chapter 5 Deployment Scenarios This chapter describes the high-level architecture of deployment scenarios defined in Section 5.1 and also captures the sequence diagrams to show end-to-end flows. The current version captures the deployment scenarios 1.1 (see Figure 5-1), scenarios 1.2 (see Figure 5-2), scenarios 1.3 (see

# 14 Figure 5-3) , scenario 1.4 (see Figure 5-4).
Figure 5-1 - Deployment scenario 1.1 -– AI/ML training and inference host locations Figure 5-2 Deployment scenario 1.2 -– AI/ML training and inference host locations Figure 5-3 Deployment scenario 1.3 - AI/ML training and inference host locations Figure 5-4 - Deployment scenario 1.4 - ML training and inference host locations In deployment scenario 1.4, the AI/ML model is first offline trained by training host in the SMO/Non-RT RIC. Training host in the Near-RT RIC is used for continuous online learning, and ML inference host is located as part of the Near-RT RIC. ML model repository in the SMO/Non-RT RIC is used to save backup ML training models. When the ML training host in the Near-RT RIC observes severe performance degradation, it can request the stored (previously well-performing) AI/ML model from model repository in the SMO/Non-RT RIC. Based on the retrieved ML model from SMO/Non-RT RIC, the training host in the Near-RT RIC updates the online model using the input data over E2 and from the ML inference host. The interactions among various functional blocks are described as follows. Note that the learning workflow does not strictly follow the sequence of descriptions. 1. O-CU/O-DU data for offline training is collected over O1 interface and the initial offline model is trained in the

# 12 SMO/Non-RT RIC.
2. The offline trained model or the backup model is moved to the Near-RT RIC. 3. The AI/ML model is deployed to the ML inference host in the Near-RT RIC. 4. O-CU/O-DU data for inference in the Near-RT RIC is collected over E2 interface. 5. The ML inference host performs inference using the deployed model and collected O-CU/O-DU data. 6. The ML inference host enforces control action/guidance via E2 interface. 7. O-CU/O-DU data for online learning in the Near-RT RIC is collected over E2 interface. 8. The ML inference host provides performance feedback to the ML training host in the Near-RT RIC for monitoring and training data for online learning. 9. The ML training host in the Near-RT RIC updates the model. 10. A well-performing model can be added to the model repository. Note 1: O-CU/O-DU data collected over O1 for offline training and O-CU/O-DU data collected over E2 for online learning and/or inference can be different. Note 2: The model online update frequency can be different from the E2 update frequency. Note 3: Deployment scenario 1.4 is essential to enable online RL in the Near-RT RIC. However, it is not exclusive for online

# 27 RL.

## 5.1 Sequence Diagram for Deployment Scenarios 1.1 and 1.2
The sequence diagram (seeFigure 5-5) for Deployment Scenario-1.1 (SMO/Non-RT RIC for model training, Non-RT RIC for model inference host) and Deployment Scenario-1.2 (SMO/Non-RT RIC for model training, Near-RT RIC as model inference host) is captured below Figure 5-5 - Non-RT RIC as ML training host, Non-RT RIC or Near-RT RIC as ML inference host (Note that the SMO components are defined in WG1 OAM architecture, Appendix B [i.x9])

## 5.2 Criteria for Determining Deployment Scenario (Options)
This section discusses some criteria that can be used to decide whether an ML Application should execute in a Non-RT RIC or Near-RT RIC Inference Host. It also discusses some criteria for whether an ML Model within such an ML Application should be initially trained (offline learning) in a Non-RT RIC as its Training Host, or in a more centralized or remote location. (Note that subsequent online learning would be expected to occur in the execution environment.) Considerations for these decisions relate to the amount of data that is required by the ML Model both in training as well as in execution, as well as latency considerations in execution. It is assumed in this section that the type of data that an ML Model requires at runtime will also be required, perhaps in aggregated form, during training. It is assumed that the Near-RT RIC would not be a suitable candidate for offline Training Host. Initial training would typically require a large pool of compute and storage resources. The very nature of the Near-RT RIC as a Network Function is geared towards high performance runtime processing with a small footprint. It is unlikely to have sufficient compute and storage resources to also handle initial offline learning. In addition, offline learning at the Near-RT RIC would also introduce complexity into its design to provide the assurances that ML training would not affect its runtime network function processing. The Non-RT RIC functionality of the SMO, a management (as opposed to a network) function, seems better suited to host initial training.

# 16 Regarding the Inference Host decision, criteria include:
1. The availability of data across a given interface. For example, if the data needed at execution time is available only across the E2 interface, then either the ML Application that includes this ML Model must either consider the Near- RT RIC as its Inference Host, or a Near-RT RIC function must be employed to forward across the O1 interface that E2 data to the Non-RT RIC as Inference Host. If the data needed at execution time is available only across the O1 interface, then the ML Application would need to consider the Non-RT RIC as its Inference Host, or a Non-RT RIC function must be employed to forward that O1 data to the Near-RT RIC with its own O1 interface. Clearly some of these options are very inefficient and likely undesirable. 2. The cost of data movement. Obviously the data movement costs of the various choices described in #1 above differ from one another. Ideally, if an ML Model requires E2 data, the Inference Host of its associated ML Application would be the Near-RT RIC. Similarly, if an ML Model requires O1 data, the Inference Host of its associated ML Application would be the Non-RT RIC. If an ML Model requires E2 data but considers the Non-RT RIC to be its Inference Host, then some function within the Near-RT RIC would need to be used as a vehicle to forward that E2 data to the Non-RT RIC. This would obviously be inefficient and costly. However, if the Non-RT RIC is also the Training Host for ongoing learning of that ML Model, then perhaps this inefficiency and cost would be warranted. Less understandable would be using the Non-RT RIC as a vehicle to forward O1 data to the Near-RT RIC acting as

# 32 Inference Host.
3. Latency considerations. The data latency associated with the various choices described in #1 above differ from one another, and the Loop 2 versus Loop 3 considerations will factor heavily into whether a ML Model consider its Inference Host to be a Near-RT RIC or a Non-RT RIC. 4. Compute resource availability considerations. The Near-RT RIC may run in an “edge” location where compute resources are very limited and hence expensive. The Non-RT RIC may more likely run in a location with more ready access to compute resources, such as a data center.

# 39 Regarding the initial Training Host decision, criteria include:
1. The local versus general significance of the data. A data lake will be required in order to train an ML Model. Assuming that a typical Service Provider will have more than one Non-RT RIC instance, if that training data lake coincides with the Non-RT RIC then the data lake will contain data of only local significance. Only by merging this “local data” from many locales into a “central data lake” could future ML applications perhaps find unexpected correlations within data that was incorrectly assumed to be of only local significance. 2. The cost of data movement. While the previous item discussed the benefits of a “central data lake”, transporting “local data” to such a central location is not without its costs. Thus the decision as to whether to use a “local” Non-RT RIC as an initial (offline) Training Host or not in large part depends on the service provider’s assessment of the value of that training data for more general purposes. The results of such an assessment can clearly differ from one service provider to another. Looking at the criteria above, one can see how the decision as to whether the appropriate Inference Host for an ML model is a Non-RT RIC or a Near-RT RIC can reasonably differ between Service Providers. For example, consider two service providers below in their assessment of how to deploy a ML Application “X” that takes large volumes of E2 data to calculate some “enrichment information” regarding UEs (e.g., the UE’s predicted QoE on various cells measured on the order of seconds), which can be used by a different “traffic steering” application (perhaps not ML-enabled) to appropriately drive handovers of those UEs. Assume that the “traffic steering” application would run at the Near-RT RIC using E2 mechanisms to drive handovers. Service Provider A and Service Provider B may come to quite different conclusions of how to deploy such an ML Application “X”: Service Provider A Service Provider B “X” Data Source E2 E2 “X” Data Movement Cost Very High Volume, Very High Cost to Move Very High Volume, Very High Cost to Move Data over Distance Data over Distance “X” Latency Consideration Loop 3 acceptable Loop 3 acceptable “X” Training data evaluation This E2 data is of only local significance. This E2 data is of potential global significance. Willing to pay to move data to a central data lake. Pertainent Business Minimize data transport costs for data with only Any application requiring E2 data should run on Considerations local significance. the Near-RT RIC. Do not use Near-RT RIC as a data relay to the Non-RT RIC. Reserve Near-RT RIC for applications requiring Loop 2 latency Inference Host Decision Because “X” requires only Loop 3 latency, Because it requires E2 data, “X” will run as an deploy it as an ML Application using the Non- ML Application using the Near-RT RIC as its RT RIC as its Inference Host. “X” will Inference Host. “X” will communicate with the communicate with the “traffic steering” “traffic steering” application via Near-RT RIC application via A1-EI. internal mechanisms. Runtime E2 Data Movement RAN -> E2 -> Near-RT RIC -> O1 -> Non-RT RAN -> E2 -> Near-RT RIC RIC Initial (Offline) Training Host Non-RT RIC will be used for training “X” (local A central off-line location will be used for Decision training) training “X” (training on a central data lake) Initial (Offline) Training E2 RAN -> E2 -> Near-RT RIC -> O1 -> Non-RT RAN -> Offline Data Collection -> Central Data Data Movement RIC (leverage the Runtime E2 Data Movement Lake path) Because the mechanism of inter-ML application communication (e.g., A1 versus Near-RT RIC internal) is so sensitive to considerations that can reasonably differ among service providers, it will be useful if the mechanism used were only a deployment decision. This should be kept in mind when the A1 and Near-RT RIC internal interface mechanisms are defined. To illustrate this extending the example above, if the mechanism for having the ML model “X” communicate with the “traffic steering” application is through a data structure capturing predicted QoE for a given UE on various cells, this data structure could be communicated either as “enrichment information” via A1-EI or communicated via a common data repository on the Near-RT RIC (such as described in section 4.3). Such an approach could preserve the service provider’s ability to make the choice of inference host a deployment consideration that does not require extensive refactoring or retraining of the solution components. Chapter 6 Requirements

## 6.1 Functional Requirements
This section describes the functional requirements for A1 interface and Non-RT RIC. [REQ-Non-RT RIC-FUN1] Non-RT RIC may request/trigger ML model training in training hosts. Notes: Regardless of where the model is deployed and executed, non-RT RIC should request/trigger ML model training. Note that ML models may be trained and not currently deployed. Implicitly, model re-training and model performance/evaluation. Non-RT RIC shall provide a query able catalog for ML designer to publish/install trained ML models (executable software components) and [REQ-Non-RT RIC- Non-RT RIC will provide discovery mechanism if a particular ML model FUN2] can be executed in the target ML inference host (MF), and what number (and type) of ML models can be executed in the MF. Notes: Non-RT RIC is a component of the SMO framework, i.e., one component of the NMS. The catalogue is not only for external ML market place or platform to publish the models, but also the source for any internal models as well. Non-RT RIC can also connect to external ML catalogues via SMO specific interfaces (interface specification is not in scope of document). There are three types of catalogs namely (design-time catalog (outside non-RT RIC in other ML platforms), training/deployment-time catalog (inside non-RT RIC), and run-time catalog (inside near-RT RIC for scenario 1.2)). In scenario 1.1 where ML models are trained, deployed and executed in non-RT RIC. Non-RT RIC shall support necessary capabilities (enable executable [REQ-Non-RT RIC- software to be installed, e.g., containers) for ML model inference in support FUN3] of ML assisted solutions running in non-RT RIC Notes: ML engines are packaged s/w executable libraries that provide the necessary routines to run the model. Note: As an example, policies to switch and activate ML model instances under different operating conditions (busy hour vs non-busy hour or seasonal changes, etc.) Non-RT RIC shall be able to access feedback data over O1 interface on ML [REQ-Non-RT RIC-FUN4] model performance and perform necessary evaluation. Note: PM and FM stats for ML model are relayed over O1. If the ML model fails during runtime an alarm can be generated as feedback to non-RT RIC. How well the ML model is performing in terms of accuracy of prediction or other operating statistics it produces can be sent to non-RT RIC over O1. Note: The following requirements which apply to both the Non-RT RIC and the Near-RT RIC as ML Inference Host are intended to facilitate a Service Provider’s ability to consider it a deployment decision whether an ML Application should be run on a Non-RT RIC or a Near-RT RIC as its Inference Host. This is in recognition that the criteria for determining the deployment scenario for a given ML Application may differ between service providers. See Section 5.2 for a discussion on the types of criteria that may be weighed differently by different providers As part of ML Application “registration”, the ML Inference Host shall be [REQ-Non-RT RIC-FUN5] able to digest information relating the data type(s) and periodicity thereof that the ML Application produces and consumes. This requirement applies [REQ-Near-RT RIC-FUN1] both to the Non-RT RIC function and the Near-RT RIC as ML Inference Host. Note: The following is the corresponding requirement as applied to ML Applications. ML Applications shall be able to perform “registration” interactions with the ML Inference Host communicating information relating the data type(s) [REQ-Non-RT RIC-FUN6] and periodicity thereof that the ML Application produces and consumes. This requirement applies both to those ML Applications that consider the [REQ-Near-RT RIC-FUN2] Non-RT RIC function as ML Inference Host, as well as those ML Applications that consider the Near-RT RIC as ML Inference Host. Note: “Registration” differs from “subscription” in that “registration” involves only data types and their periodicity, whereas “subscription” involves specific sets of data within a given “scope” (see next requirement). The ML Inference Host will be able to match data consumption needs with data sources. In this respect a data source could be either an ML Application (i.e., another ML Application’s data “produced’) or the ML [REQ-Non-RT RIC-FUN7] Inference Host itself (e.g., mediating an O1-VES data source via the SMO). The ML Inference Host shall consider it a registration-time validation error [REQ-Near-RT RIC-FUN3] if no corresponding source can be matched to an ML application’s “consumed data” requirements. This requirement applies both to the Non- RT RIC function and the Near-RT RIC as ML Inference Host. Note: The following requirements referring to ML Inference Host handling of data “subscription requests” are intended to allow ML Applications to share data without knowing each other’s data needs (see sections 4.2 and 4.3). This functionality is seen as an enabler for modularity of ML Applications. The ML Inference Host shall be able to process scoped data “subscription” requests from ML Applications, working with other neighboring (i.e., [REQ-Non-RT RIC-FUN8] SMO, Non-RT RIC function, Near-RT RIC Platform) functions as necessary to set up the corresponding data routing (e.g., routing of O1-VES [REQ-Near-RT RIC-FUN4] data to the ML Application, routing of one ML Application’s produced data to the consuming ML Application). This requirement applies both to the Non-RT RIC function and the Near-RT RIC as ML Inference Host. Note: An example of “scope” for a data subscription request would be identifying a specific set of gNBs from which to collect

# 12 O1 data of a particular data type.
For subscription requests that correspond to data produced by another ML [REQ-Non-RT RIC-FUN9] Application, the ML Inference Host function will pass the information content thereof (e.g., data type, scope, periodicity) to that other ML [REQ-Near-RT RIC-FUN5] Application for processing. This requirement applies both to the Non-RT RIC function and the Near-RT RIC as ML Inference Host. ML Applications that produce data shall be able to interact with the ML Inference Host to receive and process scoped subscription requests. The ML Application will be responsible for determining and generating to the [REQ-Non-RT RIC-FUN10] ML Inference Host any additional subscription requests needed to produce the requested data. This requirement applies both to those ML [REQ-Near-RT RIC-FUN6] Applications that consider the Non-RT RIC function as ML Inference Host, as well as those ML Applications that consider the Near-RT RIC as ML Inference Host. Note: It is the responsibility of the ML Application to ensure that the periodicity and scope of these “consumed data” subscription request corresponds to that ML Application’s needs in producing the requested data, as described in the scoped subscription request that it received from the Inference Host. The ML Inference Host shall be able to provide data mediation functionality such that, if two separate ML Applications request the same [REQ-Non-RT RIC-FUN11] ML Application-produced data, the ML Inference Host will split the data feed without placing a burden on the source ML Application. This [REQ-Near-RT RIC-FUN7] requirement applies both to the Non-RT RIC function and the Near-RT RIC as ML Inference Host. Non-RT RIC shall have access to termination conditions, and it shall be able to compute related performance metrics specified in [REQ-Non-RT RIC-FUN12] termination conditions, compare performance monitoring results against termination conditions, and make judgement that whether termination procedure should be triggered. The ML inference host shall be able to receive ML model termination command, identify the problematic model according to the request, and terminate it accordingly. ML inference host shall be able to [REQ-Non-RT RIC-FUN13] receive backup solution activation command, and switch to the backup solution following the instruction. ML inference host shall [REQ-Near-RT RIC-FUN8] notify SMO/Non-RT RIC about the outcome of ML model termination and the activation of backup solution via acknowledgement messages. REQ Description O1 interface shall support deployment and update of the ML models as a packaged [REQ-O1-FUN1] s/w executable (e.g., in a container). [REQ-O1-FUN2] O1 interface shall support file based ML model deployment and updates. O1 interface shall support PM and FM data collection for ML models, including [REQ-O1-FUN3] fine-grained events/counters needed for ML training and inference. O1 interface shall support collection of ML relevant capabilities of the managed [REQ-O1-FUN4] function where the model is to be deployed for inference.

## 6.2 Non-Functional Requirements
This section describes the non-functional requirements for A1 interface and Non-RT RIC, e.g., security. REQ Description [REQ-O1- O1 interface shall support scaling ML model instances running in target ML NONFUN1] inference host (MF) by observing resource utilization in MF. Note: The environment where the ML model instance is running will monitor resource utilization (e.g., in O-RAN-SC there is a component call Resource Monitor in near-RT RIC; similarly, in non-RT RIC there needs to be a Resource Monitor that continuously monitors resource utilization). If resources are low or fall below a certain threshold, the runtime environment in near-RT RIC and non-RT RIC needs to provide a scaling mechanism to add more ML instances. K8s runtime environments typically provide auto-scaling feature. REQ Description [REQ-O1- ML model instances running in target ML inference hosts shall be automatically NONFUN2] scaled by observing resource utilization in MF. Chapter 7 Key Issues

## 7.1 AI/ML Models in O-RAN Use Cases
In [4] multiple AI/ML assisted use cases are discussed. This section summarizes the examples of the AI/ML models used in the O-RAN use cases. Use Case AI/ML models AI/ML algorithm Deploy Data Input Data Output functionality description s types (example) scenarios mapping QoE service type classification Supervised learni Scenario 1.2 user traffic data service type Optimizat ng (e.g., CNN, D ion NN) KQI/QoE prediction (e.g., Supervised learni Scenario 1.2 Network data: KQI/QoE value good, bad or video stall ng (e.g, LSTM, e.g., good/bad, ratio, duration) XGboost) L2 measurement r stalling ratio, vide eport related to o stalling duration traffic pattern, e.g. , vMoS value , throughput, latency, packets per- second UE level radio ch annel information, mobility related metrics RAN protocol sta ck status: e.g. PD CP buffer status Cell level informa tion: e.g. DL/UL PRB occupation r ate Application data: e.g., video QoE score, video initial delay stalling detail including the timestamp stalling duration, stalling ratio, Available radio Supervised learni Scenario 1.2 similar to above Available radio B bandwidth prediction ng (e.g., DNN) andwidth Traffic cell load prediction/user Supervised learni Scenario 1.1 load related same to input Steering traffic volume prediction ng (time series / counters, e.g., UL/ prediction, e.g., Scenario1.2 DL PRB SVR, DNN) occupation Radio finger print supervised learni Scenario 1.2 Intra-frequency Inter-frequency prediction ng MR data and PM MR data, e.g, (e.g., SVR, GBD counters, e.g., RSRP, RSRQ, T) RSRP, RSRQ, MCS, CQI, etc. MCS, CQI, etc. QoE generate relevant A1 FFS Scenario 1.1 FFS priority order of based policies to provide the cells to be Traffic guidance on the traffic used for downlink Steering steering preferences data transmission. time-series prediction of Supervised Scenario 1.2 FFS FFS individual performance learning metrics or counters (e.g. lasso regression-based prediction model) QoE prediction at each Supervised Scenario 1.2 FFS QoE good/bad neighbor cell for a given learning targeted user (e.g., binary classification model using Random Forest) V2X  prediction / detection Supervised Scenario 1.2 CAM,,radio cell  HO anomalies Handover HO anomalies learning IDs, connection probability Managem IDs, and basic  discovery of preferred  preferred HO ent radio HO sequences sequences measurements (RSRP, RSPQ etc.) GPS, direction, velocity Note: CAM stands for Cooperative Awareness Message, as defined in [6]. It originates from the vehicular UE and terminates in the V2X App Server. It contains the GPS coordinates of the vehicle to a 0.1-1s granularity.

## 7.2 AI/ML Model Deployment
In deployment scenario 1.2, Non-RT RIC acts as the ML model training host and near-RT RIC acts as the ML model inference host. ML/AI model can be deployed and enabled in Near-RT RIC in different options: 1. Image based deployment: The AI/ML model will be deployed as a xAPP or within a xAPP instance, and also can be updated via the xAPP software update. In this case, the ML inference runtime is self-contained in the image, which simplifies the deployment. This is a generic deployment of ML xAPP – in the sense that ML xAPP is treated no differently from other types of xAPP. 2. File based deployment: The AI/ML model can be deployed based on the AI/ML model file, which is generally decoupled with the xAPP software version, and can be enabled and updated via the xAPP file configuration. For this scenario, a ML model catalog and an inference platform/engine are usually required for the ML model inference host (i.e., Near-RT RIC). The Near-RT RIC may have an unified inference platform/engine, which can help to accelerate the inference efficiency (exploiting native ML capabilities of the platform) and enable greater customization but which requires the ML model file format to be supported by the inference platform. Figure 7-1 illustrates an example of image based vs file based ML model deployments. Figure 7-1 - Examples of image based and file based ML model deployment Notes: The above figure only shows examples of how Near-RT RIC works under the image based ML model deployment and the file based ML model deployment. It may have different Near-RT RIC internal implementation. Table 3 compares the Pros and Cons of the two approaches. Table 3 - Pros and Cons of the image based and file based ML model deployment Options Pros Cons Opt1: Image Based Faster and flexible deployment. The inference efficiency depends on ML model the container capability. Less requirements on the ML model deployment inference host, i.e., Near-RT RIC, except for support of container runtime env. Opt2: File Based ML Better customization and efficiency by Additional function requirement for model deployment exploiting the on-device model the ML model inference host. optimization and update capabilities. Requires the matching of the ML Potential use of standard file formats for model format and the inference engine. ML models.


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG2.Non-RT-RIC-ARCH-TR-v01.01.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG2.Non-RT-RIC-ARCH-TR-v01.01 Non-RT RIC: Functional Architecture"
---

# 7 Release xx.yy.zz
where: xx the first two-digit value is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc. (the initial approved document shall have xx=01). yy the second two-digit value is incremented when editorial only changes have been incorporated in the document. zz the third two-digit value is included only in working versions of the document indicating incremental changes during the editing process; externally published documents never have this third two-digit value included. The present document provides the technical report for the overall functional architecture of the Non-RT RIC (RAN Intelligent Controller). This document collects concepts and requirements that are intended to be used in the subsequent specification of the Non-RT RIC architecture. It is not intended to define normative requirements for the conformance of implementations.

## 1.2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this text, constitute provisions of the present document.
- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition number, version number, etc.) or
non-specific.
- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including
a GSM document), a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document in the same

# 28 Release as the present document.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: "Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications". [2] O-RAN-WG3.E2GAP, “O-RAN Working Group 3, Near-Real-time RAN Intelligent Controller,

# 31 E2 General Aspects and Principles”.
[3] O-RAN-WG3.E2AP, “O-RAN Working Group 3, Near-Real-time RAN Intelligent Controller, E2

# 33 Application Protocol (E2AP)”.
[4] O-RAN-WG1.OAM Architecture, “O-RAN Operations and Maintenance Architecture”. [5] O-RAN-WG1.O1-Interface, “O-RAN Operations and Maintenance Interface Specification”. [6] O-RAN-WG2.A1.UseCaseRequirements, “O-RAN Working Group 2, Use Case and

# 37 Requirements”.
[7] O-RAN-WG2.A1.GA&P, “O-RAN Working Group 2, A1 interface: General Aspects and

# 6 Description”.
[11] O-RAN-WG2.O-RAN Architecture, “O-RAN Working Group 2, AI/ML Workflow description and Requirements”. [12] ETSI GS ZSM 002, “Zero-touch network and Service Management (ZSM); Reference

# 10 Architecture”.

## 1.3 Definitions and Abbreviations

### 1.3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1]. Non-RT RIC(O-RAN non-real-time RAN Intelligent Controller): a logical function that enables non-real-time control and optimization of RAN elements and resources, AI/ML workflow including model training and updates, and policy- based guidance of applications/features in Near-RT RIC. Near-RT RIC (O-RAN near-real-time RAN Intelligent Controller): a logical function that enables near-real-time control and optimization of RAN elements and resources via fine-grained (e.g. UE basis, Cell basis) data collection and actions over E2 interface. O-CU: O-RAN Central Unit: a logical node hosting RRC, SDAP and PDCP protocols. O-CU-CP: O-RAN Central Unit – Control Plane: a logical node hosting the RRC and the control plane part of the PDCP protocol. O-CU-UP: O-RAN Central Unit – User Plane: a logical node hosting the user plane part of the PDCP protocol and the

# 25 SDAP protocol.
O-DU: O-RAN Distributed Unit: a logical node hosting RLC/MAC/High-PHY layers based on a lower layer functional split. O-RU: O-RAN Radio Unit: a logical node hosting Low-PHY layer and RF processing based on a lower layer functional split. This is similar to 3GPP’s “TRP” or “RRH” but more specific in including the Low-PHY layer (FFT/iFFT, PRACH extraction). O-eNB (O-RAN eNB): an eNB or ng-eNB that supports E2 interface. O1: Interface between orchestration & management entities (Orchestration/NMS) and O-RAN managed elements, for operation and management, by which FCAPS management, Software management, File management and other similar functions shall be achieved.

# 35 SMO: Service Management and Orchestration system.
A1: Interface between Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC to enable policy-driven guidance of Near-RT RIC applications/functions, and support AI/ML workflow. E2: Interface connecting the Near-RT RIC and one or more O-CU-CPs, one or more O-CU-UPs, and one or more O-DUs. E2 Node: a logical node terminating E2 interface. In this version of the specification, ORAN nodes terminating E2 interface are:
- for NR access: O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU or any combination as defined in [4];

# 4 - for E-UTRA access: O-eNB.
rApp: An application designed to run on the Non-RT RIC. Such modular application leverages the functionality exposed by the Non-RT RIC to provide added value services relative to intelligent RAN optimization and operation xApp: An application designed to run on the Near-RT RIC. Such an application is likely to consist of one or more microservices and at the point of on-boarding will identify which data it consumes and which data it provides. The application is independent of the Near-RT RIC and may be provided by any third party. The E2 enables a direct association between the xApp and the RAN functionality. O-Cloud: O-Cloud is a cloud computing platform comprising a collection of physical infrastructure nodes that meet O- RAN requirements to host the relevant O-RAN functions (such as Near-RT RIC, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, and O-DU), the supporting software components (such as Operating System, Virtual Machine Monitor, Container Runtime, etc.) and the appropriate management and orchestration functions.

### 1.3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply.

# 17 EI Enrichment Information

# 18 LCM Lifecycle Management

# 19 ML Machine Learning

# 20 Non-RT RIC Non-real-time RAN Intelligent Controller

# 21 Near-RT RIC Near-real-time RAN Intelligent Controller

# 22 RAN Radio Access Network

# 23 SLA Service Level Agreement

# 24 SMO Service Management and Orchestration

# 25 TLS Transport Layer Security

# 26 ZSM Zero-touch network and Service Management

# 8 Figure 2.1-1: Logical Architecture of O-RAN
Similar to the Near-RT RIC, there is business value in visualizing the Non-RT RIC as being modularly extensible, that functional extensibility being accomplished through modular applications that can be understood as running within the Non-RT RIC function itself. Such applications have different lifecycles from the “framework” in which they run. For convenience we will use the term “rApp” to refer to such applications. Because rApps are associated with the Non-RT RIC, any framework services exposed to the rApps can be considered as being exposed by the Non-RT RIC. Some of these framework services, for example access to O1, are not specific to the Non-RT RIC, whereas others, such as access to A1, are specific to the Non-RT RIC. There is a clear business benefit to allow “porting” of a Non-RT RIC application from one SMO Framework implementation to another. Hence it would be useful for the O-RAN Alliance to define an open and standard interface through which the Non-RT RIC exposes SMO Framework functionalities to “rApps” via the R1 Services exposure functionality. We will refer to this as the “R1” interface. With the above understandings, the Non-RT RIC itself can now be described as follows:  Non-RT RIC – That functionality that drives the content carried across the A1 interface to the RAN. It can also access other SMO Framework functionality, for example influencing that which is carried across the O1-CM interface. It is comprised of two sub-functions: o Non-RT RIC Framework – That functionality internal to the SMO Framework itself that:  Logically terminates the A1 interface to the Near-RT RIC.  Exposes to rApps, via its R1 interface, the set of internal SMO Framework services needed for their runtime processing. o Non-RT RIC Applications (rApps) – Modular applications that leverage the functionality exposed by the Non-RT RIC Framework to provide added value services relative to RAN operation. Examples of such added value services include:  Driving content (Policy or Enrichment Information) across the A1 interface.

# 7  Recommending content for the O1 interface.
 Generating “enrichment information” for the use of other rApps.

# 9 Figure 2.1-2 graphically illustrates these definitions.
As observed above, rApps will require services from the R1 interface that are not necessarily associated with the Non-RT RIC Framework, such as access to O1, data sharing services, and access to RAN inventory. The Non-RT RIC Framework, via its R1 Services exposure functionality, would be responsible for exposing all of these services to the rApps, irrespective of the location within the SMO Framework of the provider of those services. A declared business need to “port” a Non-RT RIC Framework from one SMO Framework implementation to another would drive the need for a formal interface within the SMO Framework between the Non-RT RIC Framework and the rest of the SMO Framework. Absent this, different implementations of SMO Framework could make different design choices as to how to manifest the boundary between the Non-RT RIC Framework and the rest of the SMO Framework, or even to choose not to implement a clear boundary at all. The lack of a clear boundary between the Non-RT RIC and the rest of the SMO Framework need not negatively impact the ability to proceed with a formal definition of the R1 interface nor impact definition of the R1 Services exposure functionality needed to support this interface. Rather, such definitions can proceed, agnostic to the source of the SMO Framework services being exposed. However, it may be useful to define some terms that we can use to help us in discussion of these topics. Particularly it would be useful to have terms to distinguish between:  An indication that a particular R1-exposed functionality is sourced from the Non-RT RIC Framework. This functionality would be considered “inherent” to the Non-RT RIC Framework.  An indication that it is left as an SMO Framework implementation decision whether a particular R1-exposed functionality is sourced from the Non-RT RIC Framework or not.  An indication that a particular R1-exposed functionality is not sourced from the Non-RT RIC Framework. This functionality would be considered “inherent” to the SMO Framework itself, but not the Non-RT RIC Framework. The functionality that is inherent to the Non-RT RIC Framework is that functionality related to the two interfaces that the Non-RT RIC “owns”, specifically that functionality needed to drive the A1 and R1 interfaces. The O1 and O2 interfaces are clear examples of functionality of the third bullet. The term “Implementation Variable Functionality” is descriptive of that functionality described in the second bullet. Examples might include functionalities such as “Data Sharing”, “Analytic Services”, “Policy”, “RAN Inventory”, “General ML/AI Model LCM/Catalog”, RAN Mediation/Control”, “RAN Configuration Database”, “PM Short Term

# 37 Data Repository”, “Operations Intent Interface” and “External Interfaces”.
These terms and the relationships between the functions they describe can be seen in Figure 2.1-2 below. Figure 2.1-2: Exposure of SMO Framework Services to rApps The “Internal” arrows in the diagram represent that it is within the scope of the Non-RT RIC Framework’s R1 Services exposure functionality to expose all required services of the SMO Framework, even those that are not or may not be associated with the Non-RT RIC Framework itself. It is outside of O-RAN’s scope to define the “Internal” mechanism through which these services are exposed to specific SMO Framework implementations. Note that each of the endpoint functional blocks of the SMO Framework’s external interfaces have interface termination functions and functionalities associated with them to drive that respective interface. Thus, the Non-RT RIC Framework has associated with it the “A1 Functionalities”, i.e., A1 Policy, A1 EI and A1 ML, required to drive the A1 interface, as well as the A1 interface logical termination functions. Examples of R1 Services exposure functionality would include what is needed to manage the runtime interactions of individual rApps with the Non-RT RIC Framework itself. The Non-RT RIC architecture lends itself to be described by using two views, based on different approaches: a functional approach and a service-based approach. In the functional approach, the architectural view focuses on “packaging” functionalities into functions, i.e., logical entities with well-defined behaviour, connected by interfaces. In a service-based approach, the architectural view focuses on describing the functionalities as capabilities offered through services by service producer entities to service consumer entities, inspired by the service-based design principles defined in ETSI ZSM [12]. Service consumer and service producer entities are interconnected by means of communication support that enable adequate communication patterns e.g. 1-1, 1-many, pub-sub, routed etc. In general, a functional architectural view can be regarded as a deployment option, or specific realization, allowed by the service-based architectural view, and both provide the same functionalities. As described in the following, this principle is valid also for the Non-RT RIC case. Following the principles above, Section 2.2 provides the functional view of the Non-RT RIC architecture, whereas Section 2.2a shows the service-based view. The functional decomposition of the Non-RT RIC shown in Section 2.2 facilitates analysis and description of the required functionality of the combination of Non-RT RIC and SMO framework. Based on that analysis, the service-based view of the Non-RT RIC architecture focuses on interoperability aspects – namely the interfaces with other O-RAN components and the R1 services that allow interworking between the Non-RT RIC and the rApps as the main multivendor integration point. To facilitate flexibility of deployment, the service-based architectural view defines SMO and Non-RT RIC capabilities, but abstracts from a detailed representation of functional blocks that realize the capabilities and produce or consume the R1 services. This architectural approach allows multiple different instantiations; the detailed functional view presented in Section 2.2 being one of these possible instantiations. All such instantiations will all be interoperable towards rApps as long as they support the R1 services, and towards other O-RAN system components as long as they support the interfaces defined towards these.

# 3 Figure 2.2-1: Non-RT RIC architecture functional view diagram
Figure 2.2-1 illustrates the Non-RT RIC architecture functional view diagram. Non-RT RIC is an internal functionality of SMO framework, and the diagram shows three categories of components of Non-RT RIC: rApps, Non-RT RIC framework, and Open APIs for rApps.  rApp is an application designed to run on the Non-RT RIC, and it is defined in Section 2.3.  Non-RT RIC framework is a collection of Non-RT RIC framework functions, and it is described in Section 2.4.  R1 interface (Open APIs for rApps) are Non-RT RIC internal interface between rApps and Non-RT RIC framework, and it is a collection of services, such as service registration and discovery services, AI/ML workflow services, and A1-related services. Note that whether the function that provides the services is in Non-RT RIC framework or in SMO framework is transparent to the open APIs. R1 interface general principles and R1 services are discussed in Section 3.4. Note that one Non-RT RIC can connect to multiple Near-RT RICs. A function is a logical entity that plays the roles of services producer and/or service consumer. Inside the Non-RT RIC framework, there is a set of essential Non-RT RIC framework functions, which is illustrated as the blue area in the diagram. Because these functions are used to support A1 interface and rApps, it is nature to deploy these functions inside Non-RT RIC framework. Such functions are denoted as “inherent Non-RT RIC framework functionality”. As the termination point of A1 interface, “A1 functions” should be regarded as inherent Non-RT RIC functions. “A1 functions” includes “A1 logical termination” and functions to support A1 services defined in [7] [8], i.e., “A1 Policy functions”, “A1 EI functions”, and “A1 ML functions”. To facilitate modular rApps, “rApp management functions” and “R1 service exposure functions” are required. “rApp management functions” includes rApp conflict mitigation. This example of rApp management is regarded as inherent to Non-RT RIC framework. Note that functions for rApp orchestration are not part of rApp management functions, and rApp orchestration functions can be part of SMO framework. In the diagram, “other Non-RT RIC framework functions” is used as a placeholder for any other functions inside Non-RT RIC, if identified later during the study. “R1 service exposure functions” includes “service registration and discovery function” and “authentication and authorization function”, etc. The services provided by Non-RT RIC framework and SMO framework are discovered by rApps via “services registration and discovery function”. An rApp needs to be authenticated and authorized by the authentication and authorization function before being able to access the required services. As discussed in the previous section, functions can fall into the “implementation variability” area, shown as the “yellow” area in the diagram. The deployment of these “implementation variable” functions is left to implementation. If an “implementation variable” function is deployed in the Non-RT RIC in a particular implementation, then this function is regarded as a part of Non-RT RIC framework, and its service is discovered by rApps via “service registration and discovery function”. On the other hand, if an “implementation variable” function is deployed in the SMO framework in one implementation, then this function is not a part of Non-RT RIC framework, and its service is also discovered by rApps via “service registration and discovery function”. In Figure 2.2-1, three terminations of external interfaces are demonstrated as examples of “implementation variable” functions: external EI termination, external AI/ML termination, and human-machine termination. External EI termination is connected to external EI sources to import enrichment information for Non-RT RIC applications. External AI/ML termination is connected to external AI/ML server for ML model importation. Human-machine termination is used to inject RAN intent manually. All three terminations can reside inside Non-RT RIC or in SMO (but outside of Non-RT RIC). Note that specification of these external interfaces is for further discussion. There are many more “implementation variable” functions, and examples for those “implementation variable” functions include: AI/ML model training, data analytics, data sharing, etc. In the diagram, “Function 1”, …, “Function n” are used as placeholders for more

# 19 “implementation variable” functions.
The functions depicted in the architecture in Figure 2.2-1 provide the functionalities and services defined in Section 3. 2.2a Non-RT RIC Architecture Service-based View The service-based architectural approach is today widely adopted by telco industry. Service-based principles allow to describe an architecture not based on fixed functional components and interfaces between them but based on the definition of services as the central point of architecture consideration. Though there’s no formal definition available, a service- based architecture follows principles of which some are listed below:  Modularity: The functionality is modularized into a set of services at the appropriate granularity level.  Extensibility: The architecture allows simple extensibility by adding new services and making them discoverable.  Functional abstraction: Service-based architecture abstracts from the complexity and details of the underlying functions that produce the services.

# 31  Discoverability: Services are searchable for their availability.
 Composability: Services can be composed, forming new services.  Reusability: Since services are modularized, they can be re-used and can be invoked at multiple stages of the business process.  Loose coupling: Services are loosely coupled and independent from one-another. Designing an architecture in a service-based fashion allows a great degree of deployment flexibility and future- proofedness, as it leaves the choice of components that produce and/or consume certain services to the deployment, yet facilitating multi-vendor interoperability through the definition of standardized services respectively standardized service interfaces. Services are produced by service producers and consumed by service consumers through service endpoints. Service-based architecture allows modularization of the services rather than the components of a deployment. Service consumers need to be authenticated and authorized to access services at runtime by policies, rather than pre-assigning fixed consumer-producer relationships at the time the standard is developed. Produced services are registered in a registry from which service consumers can discover the available services, and the technical parameters how to consume them, such as the service endpoint, the data format and access protocol. For the service communication, different possibilities exist. Service consumers can access the service endpoints directly in a point-to-point fashion, after discovering them. Alternatively, service-related communication can be facilitated using an overarching communication framework such as a message bus or service mesh. Using a service-based design for the functionalities that are consumed and/or produced by rApps, these apps can run in any deployment that offers these services, without the need to document implementation variability. Also, future evolution of rApps into more generic smart network management apps is enabled, as such evolved apps would simply be able to discover and use more services. 2.2a.1 Non-RT RIC Architecture Service-based View Diagram The diagram in Figure 2.2a-1 shows the decomposition of the Non-RT RIC into Non-RT RIC Framework and rApps, interacting with each other through the R1 services, described in Section 3.4. A service is a set of capabilities offered by a service producer to service consumers for consumption through defined endpoints. The purpose of a service is to access, use and control a certain functionality (set of capabilities) available in the system. Production and consumption of services, which are specified, are roles of (software) entities in deployments, however, the exact software entities are not called out in the specification. A service may be standardized by O-RAN Alliance, by another organization, or be proprietary, but it can be made available in the system if it implements a common and standard way to register, to be accessed and controlled. According to the above, the architecture in Figure 2.2a-1 depicts the R1 services and the related capabilities which are part of the SMO and Non-RT Framework. Such capabilities also include communication support to enable adequate communication patterns for the service requirements, e.g., 1-1, 1-many, pub-sub, routed etc., inspired by the service- based design principles defined in [12]. Furthermore, the diagram shows that the service-based approach describes consistently how services provide access to Non-RT RIC inherent functionalities, SMO inherent functionalities, implementation variable functionalities and also capabilities external to the SMO. The Non-RT RIC service-based architectural view caters for different deployment options, including the one illustrated in Figure 2.2-1, by applying an appropriate configuration of the authorized producers-consumer pairs.

# 26 Figure 2.2a-1: Non-RT RIC architecture service-based view
2.3 rApp Definition rApps are modular applications that leverage the functionality exposed by the Non-RT RIC to provide added value services relative to intelligent RAN optimization and operation. Examples of such added value services include:  Providing policy-based guidance and enrichment information across A1 interface.  Performing data analytics, AI/ML training, and inference for RAN optimization or for the use of other rApps.

# 6  Recommending configuration management actions over O1 interface.

## 2.4 Non-RT RIC Framework

### 2.4.1 Non-RT RIC Framework in Functional View
In the functional view of the Non-RT RIC architecture in Section 2.2, the Non-RT RIC framework is a collection of Non- RT RIC framework functions. It includes the set of inherent Non-RT RIC framework functions to support A1 interface and rApps, other Non-RT RIC framework functions if any, and “implementation variable” functions which are deployed in Non-RT RIC. Non-RT RIC framework functions provide services to rApps via the open APIs (also referred to as R1 services, described in Section 3.4). In summary, Non-RT RIC framework functions include  “rApp supporting functions”, e.g, rApp service exposure functions, rApp conflict mitigation, etc. o To support interoperability between Non-RT RIC and SMO, Non-RT RIC and SMO can expose their rApp-supporting functions to each other through SMO service exposure function, which is part of rApp service exposure functions. Non-RT RIC can leverage SMO services, for example, data collection and provisioning services, via SMO service exposure function.  “A1 functions”, e.g., A1 logical termination, A1-Policy coordination and catalog, A1-EI coordination and catalog, etc.

# 21  “AI/ML Monitoring functions”,
o Providing online monitoring functions to AI/ML models in Non-RT RIC. For example, it can adopt a contract-based strategy for run-time monitoring of AI/ML models to support different types of AI/ML algorithm in multi-vendors scenarios.  “AI/ML workflow functions”, e.g., “AI/ML Model Management Functions”, “AI/ML Data Preparation Functions”, “AI/ML Modeling/Training Functions”, “ML Model Repository”. AI/ML workflow functions are implementation variability functions and can be flexibly deployed within Non-RT RIC, outside Non-RT RIC but within SMO, or even outside SMO.  Other logical terminations, e.g., external EI termination, external AI/ML termination, human-machine termination, etc.

# 31  Other “implementation variable” functions, e.g., data sharing.

### 2.4.2 Non-RT RIC Framework in a Service-based View
In the service-based view of the Non-RT RIC architecture of Section 2.2a, the Non-RT RIC framework is a collection of capabilities to support well defined functionalities. It includes the set of inherent Non-RT RIC framework functionalities for the A1 interface, the support for integration services, other Non-RT RIC framework functionalities if any, and “implementation variable” functionalities which are deployed in Non-RT RIC. Non-RT RIC framework functionalities provide services to rApps via the open APIs (also referred to as R1 services, described in Clause 3.4). In summary, Non-

# 38 RT RIC framework functionalities include:
 Integration services, providing interoperability between rApps and Non-RT RIC/SMO. The Non-RT RIC Framework, the SMO, and potentially the rApps too can expose their services through a set of capabilities in the Non-RT RIC Framework that enable rApps to register and discover service endpoints, and also to obtain notifications whenever a change in the service availability occurs. In addition, integration services include capabilities to authenticate and authorize the service producers and the service consumers.  Data management and exposure enable the collection and production of data, as well as fetching data from a database. These functionalities cater for having different sources of heterogeneous data which can be delivered directly to a data consumer or through a distribution system. More details are elaborated in Section 3.4.3. Data management and exposure are implementation variability functionalities and can be flexibly deployed within

# 10 Non-RT RIC, outside Non-RT RIC but within SMO.
 A1 interface support, e.g., A1 logical termination, A1-Policy coordination and catalogue, A1-EI coordination and catalogue, etc.  AI/ML monitoring, providing online monitoring to AI/ML models in Non-RT RIC. For example, it can adopt a contract-based strategy for run-time monitoring of AI/ML models to support different types of AI/ML algorithm in multi-vendors scenarios.  AI/ML workflow support, e.g., AI/ML model management and storage, AI/ML data preparation, AI/ML modelling/training. AI/ML workflow functionalities are implementation variability functionalities and can be flexibly deployed within Non-RT RIC, outside Non-RT RIC but within SMO, or even outside SMO.  Other logical terminations, e.g., external EI termination, external AI/ML termination, human-machine termination, etc.

# 21  Other “implementation variable” functionalities, e.g., data sharing.

## 2.5 External Interfaces

### 2.5.1 A1 Interface
O-RAN-WG2.A1.GA&P [7] specifies A1 interface general aspects and principles.

# 25 O-RAN-WG2.A1.AP [8] specifies A1 interface application protocols.

# 26 O-RAN-WG2.A1.TP [9] specifies A1 interface transport protocols.

### 2.5.2 External EI interface

# 28 External EI interface general principles
The general principles for the functionalities of an external EI interface are as follows:  Support registration of an external source of EI.  Support transfer of EI from an external source to Non-RT RIC that requests it.  Support transfer of handshaking messages (e.g. EI request and response messages) between the Non-RT RIC and an external source of EI.

# 34 External EI interface objectives

# 35 The external EI interface functionalities facilitate the following:
 Secure delivery of EI from an external source of EI to the Non-RT RIC.  Recognition of EI type by the Non-RT RIC.  Transfer of EI request messages from the Non-RT RIC to an external source of EI.  Transfer of EI response messages from an external source of EI to the Non-RT RIC.

### 2.5.3 External AI/ML interface

# 5 External AI/ML interface general principles
The general principles for the functionalities of an external AI/ML interface are as follows:  Support transfer of a trained ML model (and its metadata) from an external AI/ML server to SMO/Non-RT RIC that requests it.  Support transfer of handshaking messages (e.g. training request and response messages) between the SMO/Non-

# 10 RT RIC and an external AI/ML server.
Note: Transfer of training data to an external AI/ML server is FFS.

# 12 External AI/ML interface objectives

# 13 The external AI/ML interface functionalities facilitate the following:
 Secure delivery of trained ML models (and their metadata) from an external AI/ML server to the SMO/Non-RT

# 15 RIC.
 Transfer of training request messages from the SMO/Non-RT RIC to an external AI/ML server.  Transfer of training response messages from an external AI/ML server to the SMO/Non-RT RIC.

### 2.5.4 Human-Machine interface
The interface is provided by Non-RT RIC for technicians to manually deploy RAN intent and operate rApp . As many systems provide Human-Machine interface (e.g., web based UI), Non-RT RIC also provides such functions to technicians for their manual operations. Examples of operations include RAN intent injection, rApp maintenance, and human interaction/intervention for AI/ML training in the SMO/Non-RT RIC. This document doesn’t limit the implementation of the interface. The interface function could also be integrated into other interfaces to form a unified interface. Note: RAN intent may be also imported to SMO/Non-RT RIC by other ways, e.g., from the business support system.

# 26 Note: The details of RAN intent are FFS.

# 27 Human-Machine Interface general principles
The general principles for the functionalities of the Human-Machine interface are as follows:

# 29  Support for RAN intent injection.

# 30  Support for checking an rApp information.

# 31  Support for suspending a running rApp.

# 32  Support for resuming a pending rApp.

# 3 Human-Machine interface objectives

# 4 The Human-Machine interface functionalities facilitate the following:

# 5  Transfer the RAN intent.
 Provide the information of deployed rApps on the Non-RT RIC.  Transfer the command of suspending a specified running rApp.  Transfer the command of resuming a specified pending rApp.

# 9  Transfer the AI/ML training configurations.
 Transfer the AI/ML training status requests and reports.  Transfer the commands of initiating/suspending/resuming/terminating a training process.

# 3 Study on Functionalities, Functions and Services

## 3.1 Interface termination functions

### 3.1.1 A1 interface termination
The A1 interface termination enables the Non-RT RIC framework to send and receive messages to and from the Near- RT RIC via the A1 interface. The A1 interface termination secures the A1 interface via TLS in A1 protocol stack [9]. A1 messages sent to, and received from, the Near-RT RIC currently include  A1 policy creation/update request based on the policy received from the A1-P functions (see Section 3.2.1).  A1 policy feedback, which is routed to the A1-P functions.  A1 enrichment information from the A1-EI functions (see Section 3.2.2).  A1 enrichment information subscription request, which is routed to the A1-EI functions.

# 22 Possible future A1 messages may include
 A1 machine learning service requests/responses and subscriptions/notifications, to and from the A1-ML functions (see Section 3.2.3). Refer to [7, 8, 9] for details on A1 interface specifications.

### 3.1.2 External EI termination
The external EI interface termination enables the SMO/Non-RT RIC to receive and send messages via the external EI interface. These include, e.g., handshaking messages sent between the SMO/Non-RT RIC and an external source of EI. The delivery of EI over the external EI interface can be leveraged by rApps to enhance RAN operations. An xApp can also leverage EI that is initially delivered over the external EI interface and then to the Near-RT RIC over the A1 interface. The external EI interface termination secures the external EI interface. The external EI interface termination routes all incoming messages from an external source of EI to the SMO/Non-RT RIC. The external EI interface termination may decode incoming messages (e.g. ASN.1-encoded messages) from an external source of EI. The external EI interface termination performs conversion of external data models (e.g. 5GAA standard-compliant messages) from an external source of EI to facilitate internal messaging for the SMO/Non-RT RIC. Figure 3.1-1 shows the connection between the external EI interface termination and an external source of EI via the external EI interface.

# 9 Figure 3.1-1: External EI termination

### 3.1.3 External AI/ML termination
The external AI/ML interface termination enables the SMO/Non-RT RIC to receive and send messages via the external AI/ML interface. These include, e.g., handshaking messages sent between the SMO/Non-RT RIC and an external AI/ML server. The external AI/ML interface termination secures the external AI/ML interface. The external AI/ML interface termination routes all incoming messages from an external AI/ML server to their intended destinations. For example, it can route a trained ML model to an ML model repository. The external AI/ML interface termination may decode incoming messages (e.g. JSON-encoded messages) from an external AI/ML server. The external AI/ML interface termination performs conversion of trained ML models (e.g. ONNX standard-compliant model formats) from an external AI/ML server to a model format that is supported by the SMO/Non-RT RIC. Figure 3.1-2 shows the connection between the external AI/ML interface termination and an external AI/ML server via the external AI/ML interface.

# 24 Figure 3.1-2: External AI/ML termination

### 3.1.4 Human-Machine termination
The Human-Machine interface enhances the closed-loop mechanism of intelligent end user service experience guarantee and network performance improvement. The interface function includes RAN intent injection, rApp maintenance, and

# 28 AI/ML training interaction/intervention.

# 29 The Human-Machine interface termination secures the Human-Machine interface.
The Human-Machine termination receives information of deployed rApps from rApp management function and forwards to the technician via Human-Machine interface. The Human-Machine interface termination routes commands of suspending/resuming an rApp from a technician (e.g., with web based UI) to rApp management function.The Human- Machine interface termination may decode incoming messages (e.g. JSON/XML/YANG-encoded messages) from a technician using the portal, e.g. web based UI. The Human-Machine termination routes AI/ML training configurations and reporting configurations/requests from technicians to rApps and/or the training host in the SMO/Non-RT RIC. It forwards commands (e.g., initiating, suspending, resuming, terminating, etc.) from a technician to allow human intervention of a specific training process. The Human- Machine termination receives AI/ML training status reports from rApps and/or the training host, and it forwards the status report to technicians. A technician can configure a specific training process. The configuration message can contain:

# 10  The ID for the AI/ML training process.

# 11  The ID for the selected base model.

# 12  The associated App ID (xApp or rApp).
 Training location (e.g., the internal/external training host, or within the application.).

# 14  Training/validation/testing dataset description.

# 15  Instructions for data pre-processing (e.g. normalization).

# 16  Configuration of hyperparameters, etc.
For example, the technician can configure the training host in the SMO/Non-RT RIC to use datasets collected from dense urban area for AI/ML training, to obtain a specialized AI/ML application (or model) for metropolitan area deployment. A technician can request and/or subscribe status reporting of a specific training process. The reporting configuration message can contain:

# 21  The ID for the AI/ML training process.

# 22  Reporting periodicity.

# 23  Reporting time period.
 Reporting objects (e.g., training progress indicator, training performance indicator, etc.).

# 25  Event-trigger conditions.

# 26  Maximum number of reports, etc.
Based on the training status reports, a technician can send commands to intervene the training process. For example, a technician can terminate a training process, if the reporting shows the training is diverging or the training of another candidate App/model is completed. A technician can initiate a new training process after hyperparameter re-configuration. The Human-Machine termination converts external messages from technicians to internal message formats used by the training host and/or rApps. External messages include AI/ML training configuration, reporting configuration/request, and human commands on AI/ML training operation (e.g., terminating/initiating a training process, publishing a trained model, etc.). The Human-Machine termination converts the internal training status reports from the training host and/or rApps to outgoing messages to a technician. Note: The exact contents of AI/ML training configuration, status requests/reports, and commands are FFS. Figure 3.1-3 shows the connection between the Human-Machine interface termination and the technician

## 3.2 A1 Functionalities

### 3.2.1 A1-P functionalities

# 5 A1-P functionalities include:

# 6  Hosting A1 policy and policy type repository.
 Processing queries from rApps on Near-RT RIC supported A1 policy types.

# 8  Maintaining A1 policy enforcement status.
 Notifying rApps about an A1 policy enforcement status.

### 3.2.2 A1-EI functionalities

# 11 Some of the A1-EI functionalities include:
 Processing subscription requests for EI from the Near-RT RIC.  Routing EI to the near-RT RIC in response to subscription requests for that EI.

# 14  Performing EI Job Control.

### 3.2.3 A1-ML functionalities

# 16 Potential A1-ML functionalities may include:
 Enabling an AI/ML workflow function to register for the A1-ML service and exchange messages with the Near-

# 18 RT RIC.
 Routing A1-ML service requests/responses and subscriptions/notifications between the Near-RT RIC and registered AI/ML workflow functions.

# 21 Note: A1-ML service details are FFS.

## 3.3 AI/ML Functionalities
AI/ML Functionalities include Non-RT RIC Framework inherent or implementation variability functionalities to support the whole AI/ML lifecycle.

### 3.3.1 ML Training
The ML training functionality allows the training of AI/ML models [11] of 3rd party applications (for example, rApps or xApps) within the SMO/Non-RT RIC. The inputs consist of training data and ML model. The training data can be composed of the data collected from Near-RT RIC and O-CU/O-DU over O1 interface, external enrichment information over external EI interface, and registered data output from rApps over R1 interface. The input ML model is described by the AI/ML model descriptor/metadata, which can be included in an Application package. This functionality also allows the update/re-training of ML models stored in the ML model repository functionality. Note: Details of an AI/ML model descriptor/metadata (format, content, etc.) is FFS. Refer to Annex A.2 in [11] for examples of ML model descriptors. The output is a trained, validated, and tested ML model, which is ready to be deployed within an rApp or xApp and which can be stored by the SMO or by the Non-RT RIC Framework using the ML model repository functionality. The ML training in the SMO/Non-RT RIC offers offline training. Note: using the ML training in the SMO/Non-RT RIC for online training, e.g., to support online reinforcement learning, is FFS. Note: it does not preclude the option that a 3rd party application (for example, rApp or xApp) performs online learning by itself (e.g., a reinforcement learning application). The ML training is an “implementation variable” functionality. In the functional view of the Non-RT RIC architecture, it can be realized as an ML Training host function as part of the AI/ML Workflow functions.

### 3.3.2 ML Model Repository Functionality
The ML Model Repository functionality allows to store trained ML models and offers the following services to manage them:  ML model registration: A service consumer sends a trained ML model, which can be identified by a model identifier (e.g., ModelId), and it is stored with an initial version number.  ML model update: A service consumer updates a stored ML model. Multiple versions of a model can be stored with version numbers, e.g., for tracking purposes.  ML model retrieval: A service consumer retrieves a ML model, providing the model identifier and the version number.  ML model deletion: A service consumer deletes a version of a stored ML model.  ML model deregistration: A service consumer deregisters a stored ML model, i.e., all stored versions of the model are removed. A service consumer can provide additional supplemental information for a ML model version when it registers or updates a ML model. For example, supplemental information can include the performance of the ML model, which helps consumers to select the right model version to be retrieved. Details of the supplemental information (format, content, etc.) is FFS. Note that a service consumer needs SMO/Non-RT RIC’s authorization to use the services, including reading/writing the stored ML models and associated supplemental information. SMO/Non-RT RIC may decide to only partially expose supplemental information of stored models to a service consumer. Examples of service consumer include: the ML training host in the SMO/Non-RT RIC, ML training host in the Near-RT RIC, the external AI/ML server (over external AI/ML interface), etc. Note: The interface to be used for ML model transfer between the ML model repository functionality and the Near-RT

# 35 RIC is FFS.

# A ML model can be continuously and incrementally updated/re-trained with online information, however, there is no
guarantee that the updated model always leads to better RAN performance. Therefore, a previously stored ML model, which was proved to be well-performing, can serve as a backup if the running model evolves in the wrong direction. The ML model repository is an “implementation variable” functionality. In the functional view of the Non-RT RIC architecture, it can be realized as an ML model repository function as part of the AI/ML Workflow functions. Note: ML model repository does not train ML models, it stores trained models.

### 3.3.3 AI/ML Monitoring
AI/ML Monitoring is an essential Non-RT RIC Framework functionality to enable run-time monitoring of AI/ML models which are deployed in Non-RT RIC. These AI/ML models can be provided by multi-vendors. The AI/ML Monitoring as key Non-RT RIC Framework functionality ensures these deployed AI/ML models performing normally as they declared in their agreements or contracts signed between model providers and platform operators. Contract based strategy can be applied between model providers with application or service providers. Model providers need sign contracts with the service provider when they onboard their models to the platform provided by the service provider. The contract schema can include following types of information:

# 12  Model Specification.

# 13  Data Specification.

# 14  Monitoring metrics.

# 15  Policies.

# 16  Feedback mechanism.
AI/ML monitoring is based on the information defined contract schema to support different models from different vendors. The monitoring metrics should be defined based on different types of algorithms. Table 3.3-1 shows some monitoring metrics examples based on different types of algorithms.

# 21 Table 3.3-1: AI/ML model monitoring metrics examples
Binary classification problems Multiclass Regression classification problems classification problems Forecasting problems Area under ROC Accuracy R squared True positive rate (TPR) Weighted True Positive Proportion explained variance Rate (wTPR) Precision Weighted False Root of mean squared error(RMSE) Positive Rate (wFPR) F1-Measure Weighted recall Mean absolute error (MAE) Logarithmic loss Weighted precision Mean squared error(MSE) False positive rate (FPR) Weighted F1-Measure Area under PR Logarithmic loss Recall Contracts are signed between model providers and service providers, which defines the key information of the model, data, monitoring metrics, etc. A contract example is defined in JSON format below.

# 3 {
"contract": [

# 5 {
"model_spec": { "algorithm_type": "binary_classification", "training_data_label": "risk"

# 9 },
"data_spec": { "data_type": "numeric"

# 12 },
"monitoring_metrics": { "Area_under_ROC": true, "Precision": true, "Logarithmic_loss": true, "Recall": true

# 18 },
"policy": { "policy_id": "hge7kahf84asdf44", "condition": "fault", "allow_action": [ "terminate", "deploy"

# 25 ]

# 26 },
"feedback_mech": { "feedback_data_location": "object_storage_spec", "feedback_interval": "12h"

# 30 },
"data_schema": { "fields": [

# 33 {
"metadata": {

# 35 },
"name": "bandwidth", "nullable": false, "type": "string"

# 39 },

# 40 {
"metadata": {

# 42 },
"name": "throughput", "nullable": false, "type": "floating"

# 46 },

# 47 {
"metadata": {

# 5 },

# 6 {
"metadata": {

# 8 },
"name": "jitter", "nullable": true, "type": "floating"

# 12 }

# 13 ]

# 14 }

# 15 }

# 16 ]

# 17 }
In the functional view of the Non-RT RIC architecture, the AI/ML Monitoring can be realized as an AI/ML Monitoring function within the Non-RT RIC Framework.

## 3.4 R1 Services
The R1 interface (depicted in Figure 3.4-1) is comprised of a collection of services, hereafter referred to as R1 services, that facilitate the interactions between rApps and the Non-RT RIC framework.

### 3.4.1 General Description
As described earlier, the Non-RT RIC is comprised of Non-RT RIC Framework and Non-RT RIC Application (rApp) functional layers which capabilities are offered for consumption and usage through the R1 services. Such services include, but are not limited to:  Integration services, including service registration and discovery services, service authentication and authorization services and communication support services.

# 30  Data management and exposure services.

# 31  A1-related services.

# 32  AI/ML workflow services.

# 33  O1-related services.

# 34  O2-related services.
> NOTE: The services listed above may be used on other O-RAN-defined interfaces as well.
Figure 3.4-1: R1 interface as a collection of services between the Non-RT RIC Framework and rApps

### 3.4.2 General Principles
As described in section 5.2 of [11], at least some ML applications may profitably be deployed either to the Non-RT RIC, to the Near-RT RIC, or to both. This is certainly not true for all ML applications, as the same interfaces are not available in both platforms (e.g., E2, A1 downstream) nor do each have the same real-time requirements. However, for the types of interactions needed by the application types for which such portability would be beneficial, the design choices of the R1 interface should not unnecessarily become an obstacle for such portability.  Leverage Existing Work: Because rApps will share some common functionality with xApps (startup, messaging, data sharing, etc.), the prior work done for xApps should be analyzed for applicability to the R1 use cases and leveraged where appropriate.  Aligned integration services: Because integration or enablement services (such as registration, discovery, authorization, authentication, etc.) are needed to integrate rApps with the Non-RT RIC as well as to integrate xApps with the Near-RT RIC, the work done for xApp integration/enablement should be analyzed for applicability to rApp integration/enablement and leveraged where appropriate.  Behavioral Alignment Where Practical: Because at least some ML applications will be deployable to the Non- RT RIC, Near-RT RIC, or both, the design choices made for R1 interactions should strive to minimize the refactoring needed of an rApp to enable deployment into a Near-RT RIC environment.  Decoupled Interface: Although rApps will share some common functionality with xApps, they will also have many unique functionalities and needs that are not applicable to the Near-RT RIC. Therefore, the analysis and design choices made for the R1 interface should be done in parallel and not considered dependent on that of xApps.  The R1 interface is the sole interface between an rApp and the functionality of the Non-RT RIC and SMO. Therefore, the R1 interface should be defined to meet all functional needs of rApps, with appropriate interface extensibility capabilities as needed. The R1 interface will provide a level of abstraction between rApps that are consumers of data and their data sources:  The R1 interface will provide functionality such that an rApp that is a consumer of data will not need to know the data needs or data capabilities of the producer of that data service.  The R1 interface will provide functionality such that an rApp that is a producer of data will not need to know whether there exists one or multiple consumer rApps for that data, or the nature of that consumer (e.g., an rApp versus an entity external to the Non-RT RIC or SMO).  The R1 interface will provide functionality such that an rApp that is a consumer of data will not need to know whether the data source is local (e.g., an rApp) or remote (e.g., an external data source such as O1).  The R1 interface will provide functionality such that an rApp that is a consumer of data will not need to know whether the data was the product of a single entity (e.g., rApp), or the combined output of a complex chain of entities (e.g., a chain of rApps each consuming the value-added product of another).  The Non-RT RIC Framework will not need to understand the semantic meaning of data or the internal structure thereof in order to provide its R1 data registration and data subscription services. For example, the data registration and data subscription processing of the Non-RT RIC Framework should be the same irrespective of whether the Non-RT RIC Framework understands the semantic meaning and the internal structure of the data type (as perhaps it might for standardized data types, such as O1) or not (e.g., in the case of rApp-produced data that is not standardized).

### 3.4.3 Data Management and Exposure Services

# 18 R1 Security considerations

# 19 Void

# 20 Data Registration Services
This set of services is used in the setup of data routing paths between rApps and their data sources. “Data Registration” functionality allows an rApp to communicate information about the data types that it consumes and produces to the Non-RT RIC Framework. Data registration interactions occur when an rApp is deployed on the Non-RT RIC Framework, and can be re-initiated by either entity thereafter as conditions change in the Non-RT RIC Framework. Note that “data registration” interactions are different than “data subscription” interactions in that “data registration” involves only data types and their periodicity, whereas “data subscription” involves specific sets of data within a given “scope”.1 Thus, the purpose of “data registration” interactions is to enable the Non-RT RIC Framework to facilitate data type level value-added services, such as:  Authorizing an rApp to produce data of a certain data type. For example, a service provider may want to enforce a policy that two separate rApp instances should not produce the same data type within the same Non-RT RIC

# 31 Framework instance.
 Authorizing an rApp to consume data of a certain data type. For example, a service provider may want to restrict the availability of certain data types, such as data types that relate to sensitive data.  Accounting for the number of rApp consumers that exist for a given data type. For example, licensing of certain data-producing rApps may be sensitive to the number of consumer instances of that data type. As part of registration processing, the Non-RT RIC Framework will match the needs of data type consumers against the capabilities of data type producers. A valid data type producer for matching purposes would include previously registered

### 3.4.4 Integration Services
The Non-RT RIC Framework is responsible for producing a collection of Integration Services to assist the service producers and consumers, including, but not limited to:

# 13  Authentication of service producers and consumers.

# 14  Authorization of service producers and consumers.
 Means for service producers to register/deregister the produced services, and to update the information in case of changes of the service availability.  Means to notify the changes of the service availability to subscribed consumers.

# 18  Discovery of available services.

# 19  Information about available communication mechanisms (aka transports).
The Non-RT RIC Framework also comprises a communication support for the service consumers and producers to interact with each other. Nonetheless, a service producer may incorporate its own communication mechanism, so that a producer and a consumer can interact directly via that custom transport mechanism. 3.5 rApp Supporting Functions

# 24 Void

## 3.6 Other “Implementation Variable” Functions

# 26 Void

# 4 Requirements

## 4.1 R1 Interface Requirements

### 4.1.1 Non-RT RIC Framework Requirements
The following requirements pertain to the Non-RT RIC Framework functionality in support of the R1 interface.

# 31 Non-RT RIC Framework Data Registration Services Requirements
This section captures requirements on data registration interactions between the rApp and the Non-RT RIC Framework. The Non-RT RIC Framework shall support the capability to engage in ‘data [REQ-nRTRfW-R1r-10] registration” interactions, via the R1 interface, with an rApp instance that has been newly deployed to that Non-RT RIC Framework. The Non-RT RIC Framework shall have the capability to match rApp data [REQ-nRTRfW-R1r-30] consumption needs against known rApp data sources, setting up routing between a data source rApp and data type consumer rApp.

# 10 Ref: AIML requirement REQ-Non-RT RIC-FUN7.
rApps may add to the set of data that they consume or produce, for example due to environmental changes (e.g., notification of new produced data type availability). The Non-RT RIC Framework shall allow an rApp to initiate registration [REQ-nRTRfW-R1r-90] interactions declaring new data types consumed or produced, even after initial deployment. When an rApp interacts with the Non-RT RIC Framework to communicate [REQ-nRTRfW-R1r-100] a “produced” data type, the Non-RT RIC Framework shall determine whether there is already a data type routing rule for a registered consumer of that data type. If so, the Non-RT RIC Framework shall send a notification to that consuming rApp informing it that a data type with a previously unknown data source now has a known data source. The Non-RT RIC Framework may need to delete from the “known” data sources for a given data type, for example due to removal of a producing rApp. When the Non-RT RIC Framework detects that an rApp is being undeployed, it shall conclude that any data types being produced by that [REQ-nRTRfW-R1r-110] rApp must be rescinded. It shall determine whether the data source of that data type must now be considered “unknown”. When a produced data type’s source is rescinded, it may have ripple effects on any consuming rApps. The Non-RT RIC Framework will communicate to the consuming rApps of a data type when its source is being rescinded. When the data source for a data type transitions from “known” to “unknown”, the Non-RT RIC Framework shall determine whether there are [REQ-nRTRfW-R1r-120] any registered consumers of that data type. If so, the Non-RT RIC Framework shall send a notification to that consuming rApp informing it that a currently known data source is being removed. 4.1.2 rApp Requirements rApp Data Registration Service Requirements The following requirements pertain to the rApp functionality in support of the R1 interface. [REQ-nRTRApp-R1r-20] Deployed rApp instances shall be able to communicate via the R1 interface information relating the data type(s) and periodicity thereof that the rApp consumes and produces, in that sequence.

# 11 Ref: AIML requirement REQ-Non-RT RIC-FUN6.
An rApp that receives, as part of its data registration interactions, an indication that no corresponding data source can be found for a “consumed” [REQ-nRTRApp-R1r-30] data type shall be responsible for determining whether it can continue functioning without that data type or not.

# 12 Ref: AIML requirement REQ-Non-RT RIC-FUN7.
An rApp shall be able to interrupt data registration interactions, including after having received an indication that its data consumption needs cannot [REQ-nRTRApp-R1r-40] be fulfilled for some data type. An rApp that has done so shall not continue with data registration processing. Note: If an rApp does not interrupt its data registration processing after having been informed that no corresponding data source can be found for a “consumed” data type, it is understood that the rApp has functionality to perform runtime processing, perhaps with reduced functionality, in the absence of that data source. When a data type with a known data source is rescinded, it may have ripple effects on any consuming rApps. The same is true when a new data source becomes available for a data type with a previously unknown data source. It is the responsibility of each affected rApp to determine how the lack of a data source, or the addition of a data source, impacts that rApp’s processing. When an rApp is informed that the ability to fulfill that rApp’s data [REQ-nRTRApp-R1r-50] consumption needs has changed, it is the responsibility of that rApp to determine how to accommodate that change. Note: For example, any need for graceful termination of current execution threads will be the responsibility of the rApp.


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG2.TR.A1PENF-R004-v01.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG2.TR.A1PENF-R004-v01.00"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms

For the purposes of the present document, the following terms apply:

A1-P:	A1 policy management service

Near-RT RIC: Near-Real Time RIC

Non-RT RIC: Non-Real Time RIC

policyId: A1 policy identifier

policyTypeId: A1 policy type identifier

## 3.2 Symbols

Void

## 3.3 Abbreviations

Void

# 4 A1 policy enforcement

## 4.1 Introduction

### 4.1.1 A1 specifications

A1 policy management is defined in the A1 specifications:

- General aspects and principles, including lifecycle management aspects, are described in A1GAP [i.1];
- Use cases and procedures are described in A1UCR [i.2];
- Application protocol based on REST methodology, including service operations, resource definitions and Open API, are defined in A1AP [i.3];
- Type definitions, including policy types, policy representations, status and feedback content, is defined in A1TD [i.4].
The A1 policy management service is referred to as A1-P. A1GAP [i.1] and A1UCR [i.2] corresponds to the stage 2 description while A1AP [i.3] and A1TD [i.4] corresponds to the stage 3 description of this service.

### 4.1.2 A1 policy management

A1GAP [i.1], clause 4.1.3.1, describes the A1 policy management service (A1-P) and the purpose of A1 polices as:

“... the Non-RT RIC can define policies that are provided to the Near-RT RIC over the A1 interface. The purpose of the A1 policies is to guide the RAN performance towards the overall goal expressed in RAN intent. The A1 policies are declarative policies that contain statements on policy objectives and policy resources applicable to e.g. UEs and cells.

The Non-RT RIC can manage the A1 policies based on A1 policy status and feedback information provided by the Near-RT RIC, and on the network status provided over O1. The Non-RT RIC can use the O1 observables to continuously evaluate the impact of the A1 policies towards fulfilment of the RAN intent and based on internal conditions it can decide to issue/update the goals expressed in the A1 policies.

The Near-RT RIC functions based on its internal functions or applications, the configuration received over O1, and the temporary policies received over A1. The A1 policies may not survive a re-start of the Near-RT RIC. ”

The usage of A1 policies by Non-RT RTIC to guide the RAN performance based on O1 observables is illustrated in figure 4.1.2-1 which is a simplified version of figure 4.1.2-1 in A1GAP [i.1] adapted to the description in A1GAP [i.1], clause 4.1.3.1.

When Near-RT RIC receives an A1 policy from Non-RT RIC, it uses its internal functions and configuration to determine appropriate actions towards the E2 nodes which it controls. The activity that Near-RT RIC performs based on an A1 policy is referred to as A1 policy enforcement.

Near-RT RIC provides status and feedback to Non-RT RIC related to its A1 policy enforcement activity and Non-RT RIC observes the impact on the E2 nodes via the O1 interface.

## 4.2 A1 policy lifecycle management

### 4.2.1 Use case

The control loop implied in figure 4.1.2-1 contains the basis for describing the lifecycle of an A1 policy. The overall use case for the lifecycle of an A1 policy can be described as in table 4.2.1-1 and illustrated as in figure 4.2.1-1 in a network optimization scenario.

| Use case stage | Evolution / specification | <<Uses>> Related use |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Pre-condition | Non-RT RIC monitors the network performance based on O1 observables and other information that is available within the SMO that it has access to. Non-RT RIC is aware of which A1 policy types the Near-RT RIC supports. | A1UCR [i.2], clause 6.1 |
| Begins with | Non-RT RIC detects an issue in the network performance and may initiate additional O1 data collection to get further detailed information about the issue |  |
| Step 1 (M) | Non-RT RIC determines a suitable A1 policy to address the issue |  |
| Step 2 (M) | Non-RT RIC sends the A1 policy to the Near-RT RIC. Near-RT RIC enforces the A1 policy using the appropriate E2 nodes and cells.  Non-RT RIC monitors the impact of the A1 policy on the network via O1 observables. | A1UCR [i.2], clause 6.3 |
| Step 3 (O) | Near-RT RIC detects a status change in the A1 policy enforcement. |  |
| Step 4 (O) | Near-RT RIC provides A1 policy status and feedback information to Non-RT RIC to indicate the enforcement status change. | A1UCR [i.2], clause 6.7 |
| Step 5 (O) | Based on O1 observables and/or A1 policy status and feedback received from Near-RT RIC, Non-RT RIC determines a suitable update of the A1 policy. |  |
| Step 6 (O) | Non-RT RIC sends the updated A1 policy to the Near-RT RIC. Near-RT RIC enforces the updated A1 policy using the appropriate E2 nodes and cells. | A1UCR [i.2], clause 6.5 |
| Step 7 (O) | Non-RT RIC monitors the impact of the A1 policy on the network via O1 observables and determines the A1 policy is no longer needed. | A1UCR [i.2], clause 6.6 |
| Step 8 (M) | Non-RT RIC requests the Near-RT RIC to delete A1 policy. | A1UCR [i.2], clause 6.6 |
| Step 9 (M) | Near-RT RIC stops enforcing the A1 policy and deletes it. |  |
| Ends with | Network performance is assured without usage of the A1 policy. |  |
| Post-condition | Non-RT RIC monitors the network performance based on O1 observables and other information that is available within the SMO that it has access to. |  |

### 4.2.2 State machine

As described in A1GAP [i.1], clause 5.1.3:

- An A1 policy exists in the Near-RT RIC after Non-RT RIC has sent a Create policy request that was accepted by the Near RT RIC. When the A1 policy has been created, the Non-RT RIC can assume that its enforcement status is ENFORCED. If Near-RT RIC cannot enforce the A1 policy, it will reject the Create policy request.
- The enforcement status of the A1 policy is determined by the Near-RT RIC and reflects the status of the policy enforcement activity in the Near-RT RIC. When enforcement status changes between ENFORCED and NOT_ENFORCED, Near-RT RIC sends a Notify policy status message (given that Non-RT RIC has subscribed to status notifications).
- An A1 policy can be updated by Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC will accept the Update policy request only if the enforcement status can be ENFORCED after the update.
- After the Non-RT RIC has sent a Delete policy request, policy enforcement is stopped, and the policy no longer exist.
The state diagram in figure 4.2.2-1 is a simplified version of figure 5.1.3-1 in A1GAP [i.1] referring only to the messages of the A1 policy lifecycle management use case in clause 4.2.1.

## 4.3 A1 policy transactions

### 4.3.1 Resources and payload objects

A1AP [i.3] describes how lifecycle management of an A1 policy is based on CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) operations on a resource identified by a policy identifier (policyId) that is assigned by and is unique within the Non-RT RIC. The URI of the policy resource includes the value of the policy identifier ({policyId}).

The status of the A1 policy is a property of the policy resources (i.e. the URI includes /status).

The PolicyObject transferred as content in the Create policy, Query policy and Update policy operations is a representation of the A1 policy resource that represents the A1 policy enforcement activity in the Near-RT RIC.

The PolicyStatusObject transferred as content in the Notify policy status operation is a representation of the A1 policy status and may contain feedback information.

ProblemDetails may be included in response messages with error codes. The current definition is based on free text fields and mainly serve error handling during development and integration rather than enabling run-time corrections.

### 4.3.2 Operations and response codes

Create policy is defined as a PUT operation towards the URI including the policy identifier. The response code is 201 Created if policy creation is accepted and enforcement status can be ENFORCED. If policy creation is rejected, an appropriate HTTP status code is used to indicate the reject reason and Non-RT RIC could use it for making a new policy creation request.

Update policy is defined as a PUT operation towards the URI including the policy identifier. The response code is 200 OK if policy update is accepted and enforcement status can be ENFORCED. If policy update is rejected, an appropriate HTTP status code is used to indicate the reject reason and Non-RT RIC could use it for making a new policy update request.

Delete policy is defined as a DELETE operation with a 204 No content response code. Policy deletion is not supposed to be rejected although an appropriate error code could be used in such case.

Notify policy status is defined as a POST operation with a 204 No content response code. If policy status notification is rejected, an appropriate HTTP status code is used to indicate the reject reason though Near-RT RIC is expected to use for resending the notification.

> NOTE:	The Query policy operations and Query policy status operations are not described here since not impacting A1 policy lifecycle management (in case status notifications are subscribed to).

## 4.4 A1 policy status and feedback

### 4.4.1 Policy status object

The PolicyStatusObject defined in A1TD [i.4] is used in three different use cases:

In Notify policy status change (see A1UCR [1.2], clause 6.7.3.2) the PolicyStatusObject includes enforceStatus (i.e. if the enforcement status has become ENFORCED or NOT_ENFORCED) and enforceReason (i.e. indicating the reason for the enforcement status change).

In Query policy status (see A1UCR [1.2], clause 6.7.3.1), the PolicyStatusObject includes enforceStatus (i.e. if the enforcement status is ENFORCED or NOT_ENFORCED) and may include enforceReason (i.e. indicating the reason for the latest enforcement status change).

In Notify policy feedback (not yet defined in A1UCR [1.2]), the PolicyStatusObject includes policy type specific feedback information in addition to enforceStatus (and enforceReason).

### 4.4.2 Enforcement status

The enforceStatus can take the values ENFORCED or NOT_ENFORCED.

> NOTE:	An A1 policy can be ENFORCED even if the UEs identified through the scope of the A1 policy are not present in any cell handled by the Near-RT RIC, i.e. even if there is no effect resulting from the enforcement activity in the Near-RT RIC.

### 4.4.3 Change reasons

The enforceReason can take the values SCOPE_NOT_APPLICABLE or STATEMENT_NOT APPLICABLE or OTHER_REASON.

The detailed meaning of “NOT_APPLICABLE” is currently not defined.

> NOTE:	A proper definition of “NOT_APPLICABLE” could be used also as extension of ProblemDetails to provide further details in a response message with an error code (e.g. to indicate a “rejectReason”).

### 4.4.4 Feedback

The feedback part of a PolicyStatusObject is policy type specific as defined by the policy status schema of each A1 policy type (see A1TD [i.4], clauses 7.2).

> NOTE:	Currently no policy type specific part of a status schema is defined for any policy type in A1TD [i.4]).

# 5 Enhanced descriptions of A1 policy enforcement

## 5.1 Introduction

This clause discusses A1 policy enforcement with enhanced descriptions that do not explicitly correspond to the current A1 specifications.

## 5.2 A1 policy structure and contents

### 5.2.1 Overview

An A1 policy can contain three parts – scope identifier, policy objectives statement, and policy resources statement (see A1GAP [i.1], clause 5.1.5) – and can be read as expressing an instruction with the meaning:

For the entities identified in the scope, strive for achieving the objectives by utilizing the conditions expressed for the resources.

The scope identifier defined in A1TD [i.4] enables explicit or implicit identification of UEs and cells for which the enforcement aims to have an impact, and towards which the objectives would be evaluated. A UE must be connected to an identified cell to be impacted by policy enforcement.

### 5.2.2 Scope targets

To describe A1 policy enforcement, the entities being identified through the scope identifier in an A1 policy are in the present document referred to as the scope targets.

The following attributes are currently defined in A1TD [i.4], clause 6.3.1 for the scope identifier: ueId, groupId, sliceId, qosId, cellId, cellIdList, and taIList.

The scope targets enable identification of what is to be impacted (related to an observable outcome that can be expressed in the objectives statement) and what the required A1 policy enforcement capabilities are (e.g. which cells and slices that must be available for enforcing the policy).

### 5.2.3 Objectives

An A1 policy can contain one or more objectives. The current A1 specifications do not describe how to measure or evaluate the degree to which the objectives are achieved, it is left for Non-RT RIC to determine to which extent A1 policy enforcement leads to the intended result (see clause 4.1.2).

Several of the A1 policy types defined in A1TD [i.4] require "at least one" of several objective attributes to be present in an A1 policy.

> NOTE:	Assumingly, not any combination of objectives attributes, and attribute values, may make sense from a consistent enforcement perspective.
For specific objective attributes, not all attribute values may make sense. E.g. the policy schema may allow values that are considered unreasonable from the Near-RT RIC perspective.

The current A1 specifications do not define any explicit error code or reject reason to use in case Near-RT RIC decides to reject an A1 policy creation/update request for the above reasons.

Policy objectives may be unachievable due to conflicts with other policies or other tasks requiring the same resources in which case rejection of a policy creation request would use the 409 Conflict status code, or due to required resources not being available in which case a status change notification could indicate the change reason as OTHER REASON.

### 5.2.4 Resources

#### 5.2.4.1 General considerations

The resource statements enabled by the A1 policy types currently defined in A1TD [i.4] are based on cells (i.e. cell lists) and conditions related to their utilization for enforcing the A1 policy. While the cells in the scope need to be handled by the Near-RT RIC which is enforcing the A1 policy, the cells in the resource statement need not be since traffic can be steered/off-loaded to neighbouring cells handled by other Near-RT RICs.

To transfer traffic to a cell (e.g. based on a traffic steering or a load balancing policy), a neighbourhood relation needs to be configured and if such are not available the Near-RT RIC could consider the requested A1 policy as not applicable.

> NOTE:	It is not studied in the present document if Near-RT RIC can be assumed to be aware of if the indicated cells handled by other Near-RT RICs are available, or not, when evaluating the applicability of a requested A1 policy.

#### 5.2.4.2 A1 Policy type specific considerations

##### 5.2.4.2.1 Traffic steering preferences

Resource statements for traffic steering preferences are made based on the TspResource data type defined in A1TD [i.4], clause 6.2.4.2.

The resource statement expresses conditions for cells to steer traffic to. It does not exclude usage of cells not included in the cellLists in the resource statement.

The cells in the resource statement are not limited to cells handled by the Near-RT RIC.

##### 5.2.4.2.2 Slice SLA assurance

Resource statements for slice SLA assurance are made based on the SliceSlaResources data type defined in A1TD [i.4], clause 6.2.4.3.

If present, the resource statement expresses the designated target cells for attributes in SliceSlaObjectives (see A1TD [i.4], clause 6.3.3.5). It excludes usage of cells not included in the cellLists in the resource statement from being designated target cells.

The cells in the resource statement are limited to cells handled by the Near-RT RIC.

##### 5.2.4.2.3 Load balancing

Resource statements for load balancing are made based on the LbResources data type defined in A1TD [i.4], clause 6.2.4.4.

The resource statement expresses conditions for cells to transfer traffic to. It excludes usage of cells not included in the cellList in the resource statement.

The cells in the resource statement are not limited to cells handled by the Near-RT RIC.

##### 5.2.4.2.4 Energy saving

Resource statements for energy saving are made based on the EsResource data type defined in A1TD [i.4], clause 6.2.4.5.

The resource statements express conditions for cells to apply energy saving on. It does not exclude usage of cells not included in the cellList in the resource statement.

The cells in the resource statement are limited to cells handled by the Near-RT RIC.

## 5.3 Applicability (from Near-RT RIC perspective)

### 5.3.1 Background

Applicability is currently used to express a reason for an A1 policy status change (see clause 4.4.3 and A1TD [i.4] clause 6.2.2.3). For the scope identifier, SCOPE_NOT_APPLICABLE implies one or more of the attributes of the scope identifier cannot be applied, and hence the provided scope can no longer be applied for enforcing the A1 policy. For the objectives statement, and the resource statement, STATEMENT_NOT_APPLICABLE implies the statement can no longer be applied. Any detailed description of why the scope or the statements cannot be applied is currently not provided in the A1 specifications.

The term applicability could potentially also be used to express one of the reasons for why an A1 policy creation/update request is rejected in a case when the requested A1 policy cannot be enforced. According to A1GAP [i.1], clause 5.1.3, Non-RT RIC can when an A1 policy creation request is accepted assume that the A1 policy is enforced. This means scope and statements are applicable if no status change notification is received with one of the NOT_APPLICABLE reason. If Non-RT RIC requests creation of an A1 policy where not all attributes can be applied, it should not assume the A1 policy creation request will be accepted or that the A1 policy remains enforced in case it was accepted.

> NOTE:	The current A1 specifications do not define any explicit error code or reject reason to use in case Near-RT RIC decides to reject an A1 policy creation/update request for applicability reasons. It is though not prohibited to use the status code 400 Bad Request and optionally express the reasons in the problem details.
Knowledge about which A1 policies that are applicable from a Near-RT RIC perspective would help Non-RT RIC to formulate A1 policies that can be enforced, and better understand reasons for why an existing A1 policy is not achieving its objectives.

### 5.3.2 A1 policy enforcement capabilities

A definition of the term applicability would, in general, relate to the capabilities needed for applying.

For the A1 interface purposes, it could be considered for Near-RT RIC to express such A1 (policy enforcement) capabilities related to the A1 policy types it supports.

The A1 policy enforcement capabilities of a Near-RT RIC could represent what the Near-RT RIC is able, and allowed, to do in terms of A1 policy enforcement related to a supported A1 policy type. Based on its A1 policy enforcement capabilities, a Near-RT RIC could consider a requested A1 policy as applicable or not applicable.

Two aspects of A1 policy enforcement capabilities should be separated – "configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities" and "available A1 policy enforcement capabilities":

- the configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities of a Near-RT RIC represents the capabilities configured by OAM that the Near-RT RIC can, and is allowed to, use for A1 policy enforcement (e.g., each cell is handled by one and only one Near-RT RIC based on the network configuration and cells are configured for support for certain slices); and
- the available A1 policy enforcement capabilities of a Near-RT RIC represents the subset of configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities that are available for A1 policy enforcement (e.g., all the configured cells or slices may not be available for enforcing A1 policies at every time).
Since the available A1 policy enforcement capabilities are a subset of the configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities, they may change in case the configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities are changed. It is assumed that the available A1 policy enforcement capabilities may change more often than the configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities, but they can only change within the set of configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities.

> NOTE 1:	The reasons for why configured cells or slices may not always be available for enforcement of A1 policies is not further elaborated here.
> NOTE 2:	"Planned A1 policy enforcement capabilities" may not be relevant to consider. Only configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities are relevant when defining applicability for a Near-RT RIC that receives A1 policy creation/update requests and/or is enforcing A1 policies.

### 5.3.3 Scope applicability

#### 5.3.3.1 Examples of A1 policy enforcement capabilities

In the context of the A1 interface, the obvious examples of A1 policy enforcement capabilities are those that can be represented by the entities identified in the scope and resources statement (e.g. cells and slices), and the attributes of the objectives statement, defined in the A1 policy types. The configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities represent the subset of what can be expressed in A1 policies based on the A1 policy types that a Near-RT RIC has been configured or restricted to support.

A Near-RT RIC can e.g. be configured with

- restrictions to use only certain of the allowed combinations of scope identifier attributes with objectives/resources statement defined for each A1 policy type;
- restrictions to use only certain scope identifier attributes, i.e., Near-RT RIC can be configured to not allow ueId/groupId/sliceId/qosId/cellId/cellIdList/talList based scope identifiers for an A1 policy type;
- allowed or not allowed ueId/groupId/sliceId/qosId/cellId attributes, e.g., Near-RT RIC can be configured to not allow qcI based scopes for a policy type;
- allowed or not allowed scope identifier attribute values, e.g., Near-RT RIC can be configured to not allow A1 policy enforcement for certain cellId(s) for an A1 policy type.
> NOTE 1:	Near-RT may be configured for A1 policy type restrictions as exemplified above given they are in line with the A1 specifications. It is not in scope of the A1 specifications to define how cells are configured to support e.g.  slices and tracking areas, nor how Near-RT RIC is configured for restrictions or which cells it handles.
> NOTE 2:	In addition to the Near-RT RIC configuration, the available A1 policy enforcement capabilities could be impacted by other aspects related to the internal realization of the Near-RT RIC. E.g., in case the A1 policy enforcement would be distributed among activities that enforce a share of the A1 policy, the operational status of those activities could impact the A1 policy enforcement capabilities that are available, and Near-RT RIC in such a case could use the policy status message to indicate the change in the enforceability of the policy.
A Near-RT RIC would use its configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities to determine applicability of requested A1 policies (and use the available subset of the configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities to determine enforceability of existing A1 policies).

The term applicability expresses if enforcement of an A1 policy can be based on the configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities:

- if the scope of an A1 policy is completely covered by the configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities, it is referred to as an "applicable scope"; and
- if the scope of an A1 policy is not completely covered by the configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities, it is referred to as a "not applicable scope".
An A1 policy creation/update request could potentially be rejected if the requested A1 policy is not applicable, e.g. in cases such as:

- cellId in scope is not handled by the Near-RT RIC;
- sliceId in scope is not handled by the Near-RT RIC (i.e. the slice is not configured for any cell handled by the Near-RT RIC); and
- cellId in scope is not configured for the provided sliceId;
- taI in scope is not broadcasted by any of the cells handled by the Near-RT RIC.
- cellId in resources is not configured for the sliceId provided in the scope.
> NOTE 3:	The current A1 specifications do not define any detailed meaning of applicability, and do not require/forbid the Near-RT RIC to be able to reject A1 policy creation/update requests based on non-applicability.

#### 5.3.3.2 A1 policy enforcement capabilities and scope coverage

Figure 5.3.3.2-1 illustrates that the available A1 policy enforcement capabilities of a Near-RT RIC are (equal to or are) a subset of the configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities, and how they cover different scopes.

Figure 5.3.3.2-1 illustrates that

- the requested scope (i.e. the scope of an A1 policy in an A1 policy creation/update request) can be bigger than what can be handled based on the configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities;
- the applicable scope is the part of the requested scope that can be handled based on the configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities  (i.e. the applicable part of the "requested scope");
- the enforceable scope is the part of the applicable scope that can be handled based on the available A1 policy enforcement capabilities  (i.e. the enforceable part of the "applicable scope").
> NOTE:		 If a cellIdList in the scope includes cells handled by other Near-RT RIC(s), obviously the requested scope is bigger than, or outside of, the applicable scope. But when there is a ueId in a requested scope, and the Near-RT RIC is configured to allow ueId based scope, then the requested scope can be an applicable scope.
The current A1 specifications do not make any assumptions on when Near-RT RIC evaluates the applicable scope and/or the enforceable scope against the configured and/or available A1 policy enforcement capabilities.

### 5.3.4 Objectives applicability

If the enforcement status of an A1 policy changes to NOT_ENFORCED, the changeReason STATEMENT_NOT_APPLICABLE could be used to indicate that the reason is related to that objectives can no longer be applied. It can also be used in the case that an A1 policy update request was accepted although objectives are no longer realistic or within the constraints.

An A1 policy creation/update request could potentially be rejected due to inapplicability in case the objectives are: "unrealistic" or "beyond constraints".

The objectives statement of an A1 policy could be considered as applicable in case the policy creation/update request can be accepted and the enforcement status of the A1 policy can be ENFORCED.

> NOTE:		An A1 policy creation/update request can be rejected due to conflict in case the existence of other policies implies the objectives are "unachievable". This is, though, not related to objective applicability since not related to the configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities.
It would be up to a Near-RT RIC if, and how, it can determine if the objectives statement of an A1 policy is unrealistic to an extent that leads to rejection of an A1 policy creation/update request or if the A1 policy is accepted even if the objectives statement may not be (always and fully) applicable.

Even for a less unrealistic objective, the Near-RT RIC may have constraints related to which objective attribute values it can consider as applicable.

In addition to constraints regrading objective attribute values, a Near-RT RIC may for each A1 policy type also be restricted to use only a subset of the attributes defined for the objectives statement, and/or a subset of combinations of them (in cases where the A1 policy types allow for more than one objective attribute). Such constraints are considered as covered by the configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities.

> NOTE1 :	If Non-RT RIC was aware of the ranges for attribute values that Near-RT RIC considers unrealistic, or beyond constraints, it would (hopefully) not create an A1 policy with an objective that is not applicable.
> NOTE 2:	It needs, however, to be further studied if it makes sense to reject an A1 policy creation/update request based on the dynamic situation or if that is better expressed as a status of the enforcement.
To a Near-RT RIC, the objectives statement in an A1 policy would be "applicable" in case it can use the objective attributes for enforcement of the A1 policy and the values of the objective attributes are reasonable (i.e. within the constraints of what can be strived for during enforcement). In case an objectives statement contains multiple attributes, the objectives need to be concurrently achievable (i.e. also the combination of attributes, and their values, can be used) if the A1 policy is to be considered as "applicable".

### 5.3.5 Resources applicability

If the enforcement status of an A1 policy changes to NOT_ENFORCED, the changeReason STATEMENT_NOT_APPLICABLE could be used to indicate that the reason is related to that the resources statement can no longer be applied.

An A1 policy creation/update request could potentially be rejected due to inapplicability in case the provided resource statement is not applicable.

The applicability of the resource statement would be related to the configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities or neighbourhood relations. For a cell identifier attribute provided in the resource statement to be applicable, it has to be covered by the configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities or neighbourhood relations for the resource statement to be applicable.

The entities in resource statements are cellIdList and taiList. Even if a valid A1 policy need not have any items in the arrays, a resources statement would not be applicable in case it does not cover at least one applicable cell.

## 5.4 Enforceability (from Near-RT RIC perspective)

### 5.4.1 Background

Enforcement refers to the activity and actions that strive to achieve the objectives of an existing A1 policy. The status of the enforcement activity is expressed in the enforceStatus attribute. To say an A1 policy is enforced corresponds to that the enforceStatus attribute value is ENFORCED, and to say an A1 policy is not enforced corresponds to that the enforceStatus attribute value is NOT_ENFORCED. An enforceable A1 policy has an enforceable scope (see clause 5.3.3.2) and can be enforced.

A UE identified by the scope of an enforced A1 policy may, or may not, be connected to a cell handled by the Near-RT RIC. And PDU sessions related to QoS flows identified by the scope of an enforced A1 policy may, or may not, be established with a UE connected to a cell handled by the Near-RT RIC. To say an A1 policy is enforceable, or that enforceStatus is ENFORCED, does not reflect whether enforcement is in effect or not. Policy enforcement would not be in effect if the targeted UEs are not connected, or if no PDU session is established with a QoS flow for the targeted qosId. Only when policy enforcement is in effect, for A1 policies with ueId and/or qosId in the scope, can there be an observable outcome.

### 5.4.2 Effect of policy enforcement

Policy enforcement relies on that the identified required resources are available, allocated, and used for enforcing the policy towards achievement of the policy objectives.

> NOTE 1:	The scope of WG2 and the A1 specifications do not include how A1 policy enforcement is done by Near-RT RIC, that is in scope for the Near-RT RIC Architecture [i.7] and other WG3 specifications. The present clause only elaborates on aspects related to usage of the A1 interface from the Non-RT RIC perspective such as e.g. observable effects of A1 policies created in a Near-RT RIC.
The enforcement of an A1 policy may have direct impact on UEs identified through the scope of the policy and indirect impact on other UEs. For an A1 policy to have direct impact on a UE it needs to be connected to a cell where the policy is being enforced.

The enforcement of an A1 policy may or may not have effect on a UE, or result in an observable outcome, due to reasons such as UE is not being connected or the UE mobility (where connections do not last long enough to show observable impact). The effect of policy enforcement may also be impacted by dynamic aspects such as e.g. resource load and traffic situation. It may not be feasible for the Near-RT RIC to determine and signal that the enforcement of an A1 policy has no effect.

If the policy objectives of a set of policies are not concurrently achievable, only a subset of the policies may have effect though all policies are enforced.

An enforceable A1 policy targeting cells can be enforced only if the cells are available (i.e. operational), it would not be enforceable otherwise. An energy saving policy is not considered as making a cell unavailable since it is for the Near-RT RIC to balance the effect of concurrent policies towards the E2 nodes and the cells, and make the trade-off between power saving and traffic handling.

> NOTE 2:	For the observable effects of A1 policies, Non-RT RIC relies on existing mechanisms such as O1 based counters, trace etc to gather this information. It is not studied in the present document if it is feasible for the Near-RT RIC to be aware of the connected state of all UEs targeted by an enforced A1 policy, especially in cases when they move between cells and E2 nodes. Neither is it studied if there would be any reason to notify such changes to Non-RT RIC.

### 5.4.3 Relation between enforceability and applicability

#### 5.4.3.1 General

The terms applicability and enforceability are strongly related, could apply both during A1 policy creation/update transactions and A1 policy enforcement, and could be defined based on A1 policy enforcement capabilities. They relate to the capabilities needed for enforcement of an A1 policy of a specific A1 policy type, and enables expressing the result of an evaluation of if the A1 policy can be enforced or not if created, as well as the enforcement status of an existing A1 policy.

#### 5.4.3.2 Acceptable

An accepted A1 policy is an A1 policy that Near-RT RIC accepted for creation/update based on a requested A1 policy received in an A1 policy creation/update message while a rejected A1 policy is a requested A1 policy that was not accepted for creation due to reasons such as e.g. not valid or conflicting with existing A1 policies.

The current A1 specifications do not contain any additional requirements (beyond validity and not being identical to an existing A1 policy) on when Near-RT RIC should consider a requested A1 policy as acceptable when receiving an A1 policy creation/update request.

> NOTE 1:	If a requested A1 policy does not validate against the policy schema of the A1 policy type, the rejection is indicated as a bad request. If a requested A1 policy is identical to an existing A1 policy, the rejection is indicated as a conflict.
> NOTE 2:	It could be for further study if applicability and/or enforceability should be considered as further reject reasons.

#### 5.4.3.3 Applicable and enforceable

An A1 policy would be "applicable" in case it has an applicable scope (see clause 5.3.3), and the objectives and resources statements are applicable (see clauses 5.3.4 and 5.3.5). Otherwise, the A1 policy would be "not applicable".

A requested A1 policy could be "applicable" in case it has an applicable scope, and the objectives and resources statements are applicable. If the configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities change during enforcement so that the scope is no longer completely covered by the configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities, the policy would be "not_applicable".

An A1 policy would be "enforceable" in case it has an enforceable scope (see clause 5.3.3), the objectives statement is applicable (see clauses 5.3.4), and at least one cell indicated in the resource statement is available. Otherwise, the A1 policy would be "not enforceable".

A requested A1 policy could be "enforceable" in case it has an enforceable scope, the objectives statement is applicable, and at least one cell indicated in the resource statement is available. If the available A1 policy enforcement capabilities change during enforcement so that the scope is no longer completely covered by the available A1 policy enforcement capabilities, the policy would be "not_enforceable".

Since the available A1 policy enforcement capabilities are a subset of the configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities, an applicable A1 policy may or may not be enforceable, while an A1 policy that is not applicable also is not enforceable.

Figure 5.4.3.3-1 illustrates the applicability and enforceability aspects related to the A1 policy enforcement capabilities.

#### 5.4.3.4 Reasons

In case of a change in enforcement status (from ENFORCED to NOT_ENFORCED), the enforceReason SCOPE_NOT_APPLICABLE would be used to reflect a change in the configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities required for the enforcement.

The current A1 specifications does not contain any dedicated attribute value to express a status change to NOT_ENFORCED related to that policy has become not_enforceable (i.e. due to a change in the available A1 policy enforcement capabilities required for the enforcement).

> NOTE:	It is not clear if the enforceReason STATEMENT_NOT_APPLICABLE could be used or not for expressing the consequences of a change in the available A1 policy enforcement capabilities.
Even if the A1 policy at creation/update was considered as applicable based on the configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities, it may not be enforced due the available A1 policy enforcement capabilities. The considerations in the present clause are general and limited to binary states (able or not_able). The introduction of more granular "degrees of ability" is made in further clauses.

## 5.5 A1 policy creation

### 5.5.1 General

The current A1 specification (see A1AP [i.3], clause 5.2.4.3) defines policy creation, and update, based on the PUT+201 pattern as illustrated in figure 5.5.1-1.

As per A1GAP [i.1], clause 5.1.3,

"A Create/Update policy request is accepted after the policy has been validated and considered as being possible to enforce"

and

"When a create A1 policy request is accepted, the Non-RT RIC can assume that the policy is enforced until policy status is queried or a change in enforcement status is notified".

> NOTE 1:	To say an A1 "policy is enforced" corresponds to that the enforceStatus attribute value is ENFORCED (see clause 5.4.1) when enforcement actions are taken for the A1 policy. It could be considered if the text in A1GAP [i.1] means to imply Non-RT RIC can assume policy enforcement has started (and enforcement status is reflected in the enforceStatus attribute) following the confirmation that the requested A1 policy was considered as possible to enforce.
> NOTE 2:	Based on the definitions and reasoning in clauses 5.4.3.3 and 5.4.3.4, it could be considered to say that a policy is "possible to enforce" if it is applicable (and enforceable) as the changeReason values provided in status change notifications refer to scope and statement inapplicability.
At reception of a 201 Created response message, Non-RT RIC is aware that the requested A1 policy has been validated and considered as possible to enforce. It does, however, not yet know the value of the enforceStatus attribute or the status of the enforcement activity that results from the accepted policy creation/update request. Hence, until it knows, Non-RT RIC can reasonably assume the policy is enforced (since it is considered possible to enforce) and it may also assume that the value of the enforceStatus attribute would be ENFORCED.

> NOTE 3:	The current A1 specification does not describe what value the Near-RT RIC assigns to the enforceStatus attribute after the 201-message and before it reflects the status of the policy enforcement activity.
To become of aware the enforcement status, Non-RT RIC can query the policy status and subscribe to notifications for policy status changes. Query of policy status, and notification of policy status change, as defined in A1AP [i.3], clauses 5.2.4.7 and 5.2.4.8 are illustrated in figure 5.5.1-2.

> NOTE 4:	Even if Non-RT RIC has received the enforceStatus, it does not imply the enforcement activity has started (see Note 3).
The current definition of Create single policy reflects a synchronous design pattern as described in 3GPP TR 32.866 [i.9], clause 7.5.6. A different alternative for defining a Create policy transaction would have been to use an asynchronous design pattern as described in 3GPP TR 32.866 [i.9], clause 7.5.12. The PUT+202+Notify pattern would ensure Non-RT RIC receives consistent information regarding status of evaluations and the resulting policy enforcement status in case policy creation was accepted.

Using a design pattern with asynchronous properties implies the enforcement status can be explicitly provided and may, or may not, allow for a NOT_ENFORCED outcome. The different alternatives based on these patterns are discussed further in clauses 5.5.2 and 5.5.3 based on the principles that "an A1 policy is accepted for creation if it is possible to enforce" and "there will be an enforcement activity with known status for an existing A1 policy", and with considerations how to avoid assumptions.

The usage of different status codes related to the different evaluations (if policy is possible to enforce or not) are discussed in clause 5.5.4.

### 5.5.2 Detailed analysis for PUT+201 pattern

#### 5.5.2.1 General

To say an A1 policy is enforced corresponds to that the enforceStatus attribute value is ENFORCED (see clause 5.4.1) and seems to imply that the policy enforcement (activity) has started. However, the statement that the "request is accepted after the policy has been validated and considered as being possible to enforce" seems to imply that 201 Created can be sent after evaluation of applicability and/or enforceability (see clauses 5.3 and 5.4) but before the policy enforcement (activity) has started. Given that the enforceStatus is queryable after the 201 Created message, the attribute value may either reflect the status of the ongoing enforcement activity or have a value assigned by Near-RT RIC that may, or may not, reflect the status of the enforcement activity after it has been started.

The scenario where policy creation is accepted after the start of policy enforcement, and enforceStatus is known to be ENFORCED at the reception of 201 Created, is described in clause 5.5.2.2 while the scenarios where policy creation is accepted before the start of policy enforcement, and enforceStatus is assumed to be ENFORCED at the reception of 201 Created until queried, or a status change is notified, are described in clause 5.5.2.3.

#### 5.5.2.2 Creating an ENFORCED policy

Figure 5.5.2.2-1 illustrates policy creation where the 201-messsage is sent after the enforcement activity has started and enforcement status is ENFORCED. If Non-RT RIC was aware that Near-RT RIC had this behaviour it would not need not assume, since it would know, that enforcement status is ENFORCED.

This transaction for "creating an enforced policy" follows a synchronous design pattern as described in 3GPP TR 32.866 [i.9], clause 7.5.6, even if the 201-message may not be immediate.

> NOTE:	It is not in the scope of the A1 specifications to define any details on what the starting of a policy enforcement activity covers, if it performed in steps, or how long it may take before it completes. Even if the PUT+201 based transaction is considered as synchronous, Non-RT RIC cannot assume to be aware of the actual enforceStatus within any specific time.

#### 5.5.2.3 Creating policy before enforcement status is known

Figure 5.5.2.3-1 and figure 5.5.2.3-2 illustrate policy creation where the 201-messsage is sent before the enforcement activity has started. In these scenarios, the policy is created even if the enforcement status may not be ENFORCED when enforcement has started. Even if Non-RT RIC can assume the policy is enforced, it could, but may not, receive a status change notification immediately after the 201-message.

These transactions formally separate the acceptance for creating the requested A1 policy from the status of the associated enforcement activity. Thereby it allows for an outcome where the enforcement status is NOT_ENFORCED. Given that policy creation is accepted only if the requested A1 policy is both applicable and enforceable, it would be reasonable to assume that the enforcement status will be ENFORCED (corresponding to the assumption related to the current Create single policy operation). It can, though, not be assumed that Near-RT RIC sets the initial value of enforceStatus to any specific value before enforcement has started.

The transaction in figure 5.5.2.3-1 for "creating an enforceable policy with assumed but unknown status" shows both synchronous and asynchronous properties illustrated in figure 5.5.2.2-1 and 5.5.2.3-2.

Non-RT RIC can query the status to become aware, but it would still not know when the enforceStatus attribute value reflects the status of the started enforcement activity.

Non-RT RIC may prefer more consistency regarding the information about the enforcement status before starting to monitor any O1 observables specific for the impact of an A1 policy after receiving 201 Created. One way to enable that could be to define an attribute value UNDETERMINED in the case where policy creation is accepted before the enforcement activity is started as that enables Non-RT RIC to be notified when enforcement has started, and status is ENFORCED (or NOT_ENFORCED), as illustrated in figure 5.5.2.3-2.

The transaction in figure 5.5.2.3-2 for "creating an enforceable policy with known status" resembles an asynchronous design pattern described in Option 1 in 3GPP TR 32.866 [i.9], clause 7.5.12, using PUT instead of GET and using the notificationDestination as the asynchronous callback URI.

### 5.5.3 Alternatives based on PUT+202+Notify pattern

#### 5.5.3.1 General

An alternative to using the PUT+201 pattern would be to use the PUT+202+Notify pattern. The meaning of the 202-response message would be that "the creation request is accepted for evaluation, and the policy will be created if it is possible to enforce".

The following Create policy transactions are based on Option 3 in 3GPP TR 32.866 [i.9], clause 7.5.12.

The scenario where policy is created when enforceStatus is known to be ENFORCED is described in clause 5.5.3.2 while the scenario where policy is created irrespective of enforceStatus is described in clause 5.5.3.3.

The 202 Accepted message would contain a URI that enables to query the status of the ongoing evaluation activity. This status would indicate if the "evaluation of the creation request, policy creation, and start of enforcement" activity is ongoing and when completed the status would indicate if the result was that policy is created or not, and what the enforcement status is. The status notification would also include the PolicyObject (just like the 201-response) and the PolicyStatusObject (reflecting the known enforcement status).

#### 5.5.3.2 Creating an ENFORCED policy

Figure 5.5.3.2-1 illustrates policy creation after the enforcement activity has started and enforcement status is ENFORCED.

This transaction allows for an outcome where policy is not created in case the enforcement status is not ENFORCED. The 202 Accepted message can, however, not be assumed to indicate that policy was considered applicable and/or enforceable.

> NOTE 1:	Even if the transaction per definition is asynchronous, it need not imply the notification cannot be sent immediately after 202-message.
> NOTE 2:	The status notification indicating policy was not created should include relevant information regarding the reason why policy was not created, e.g. if it was considered as not applicable/enforceable or if the enforcement activity did not result in enforceStatus being ENFORCED. It would be for further consideration what the appropriate content would be for these cases.

#### 5.5.3.3 Creating policy with known enforcement status

Figure 5.5.3.3-1 illustrates policy creation and enforcement activity irrespective of enforcement status.

This transaction formally separates the acceptance for creating the requested A1 policy from the status of the associated enforcement activity. Thereby it allows for an outcome where the enforcement status is NOT_ENFORCED even if the policy is created only if the requested A1 policy is both applicable and enforceable.

The 202 Accepted message cannot be assumed to indicate that the A1 policy was considered applicable and/or enforceable. This transaction implies the A1 policy is created even if the enforcement status may not be ENFORCED.

> NOTE:	This approach, and the approach illustrated in figure 5.5.2.3-2, enables the same Non-RT RIC awareness of that an evaluation activity is ongoing until Non-RT RIC is informed about the outcome of policy being created or not, and what the status of the started enforcement activity is. The approach in figure 5.5.3.3.-1 enables more information can be queried during evaluation and provided in the result of the evaluation activity.

#### 5.5.3.4 Comparison with PUT+201 pattern alternatives

The alternatives illustrated in figures 5.5.2.2-1 and 5.5.3.2-1 shows the A1 policy exists (and is queryable over A1) after the enforcement activity has started and the status is known to be ENFORCED. If Non-RT RIC was aware of that Near-RT RIC behaves like this it would not need to make any assumption on the enforcement status at the creation of the A1 policy. The 202-alternative is a typical pattern while the 201-alternative is covered by current service operation although it cannot be expected that Near-RT RIC has this behaviour. A successful policy creation transaction always results in an A1 policy where the enforcement status is ENFORCED.

The alternatives illustrated in figures 5.5.2.3-2 and 5.5.3.3-1 implies there is no need for Non-RT RIC to make any assumption on the enforcement status at the creation of the A1 policy since it will be notified when the enforcement activity has started. The 202-alternative is a typical pattern while the 201-alternative is a simpler solution based on the current service operation modified for asynchronous properties. A successful policy creation transaction results in an A1 policy with known status, but a consequence is that Non-RT RIC cannot expect an outcome where the enforcement status is ENFORCED when enforcement activity has started (unless further means are taken to address the expectations on the outcome).

The alternative illustrated in figures 5.5.2.3-1 shows why Non-RT RIC should not make any assumptions on the enforcement status at the creation of the A1 policy since it cannot have any expectation of what value Near-RT RIC will assign to the enforceStatus attribute before the enforcement activity has started, and hence it cannot expect to be notified in case of a specific status change from an assumed status. A successful policy creation transaction results in an A1 policy with unknown status but if Non-RT RIC queries the status of the policy after creation it will become aware of the enforcement status even if the enforcement activity has not yet started (in case it subscribes to policy status notifications). It will, however, not know when the enforceStatus value reflects the status of the started enforcement activity.

### 5.5.4 Validations (by Near-RT RIC) and error codes

#### 5.5.4.1 General

The transactions illustrated in clauses 5.5.2 and 5.5.3 start with a validation of the requested policy that also validates if "policy is possible to enforce" in the 201 cases. In the cases when policy enforcement is started before policy creation is accepted, the creation request can be rejected also in cases when the policy is possible to enforce. The usage of error codes is summarized in figure 5.5.4.1-1.

The current A1 specification (see A1AP [i.3], clause 6.2.7.3) only defines HTTP status codes for cases where the policy creation is rejected based on formal validation of the request syntax, the payload not validating against the policy schema, or due to obvious conflict with an existing A1 policy. There is currently no explicit error code to use when rejecting a policy creation request with reasons such "not applicable" or "not enforceable if created".

> NOTE 1:	"not applicable" and "not enforceable" are defined in clause 5.4.3.3.
> NOTE 2:	It is out of scope of the A1 specifications and the present document to speculate on, or specify how, Near-RT RIC does internal evaluations of A1 policies and policy enforcement, or in which order such evaluations are performed. This clause only intends to provide reasoning around appropriate HTTP status codes that could be relevant in relation to the considerations and definitions of the present document.

#### 5.5.4.2 Error codes for policy validation

For the syntactic validations,

- 400 Bad Request is used to indicate a bad request, e.g. invalid URI path or content that do not validate against the required JSON schema;
- 404 Not Found is used to indicate that the policy type does not exist (i.e. there is no resource corresponding to the {policyTypeId} in the path), and
in addition to the syntactic validation of the policy creation request message, additional aspects could be evaluated to address:

- the applicability of the requested A1 policy, i.e. whether the enforcement of the requested A1 policy can be based on the configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities;
- the enforceability of the requested A1 policy (i.e. whether the enforcement of the requested A1 policy can be based on the available A1 policy enforcement capabilities) and the resulting enforcement status of the A1 policy in the case policy creation was accepted; and
- conflicts with existing A1 policies can be indicated with 409 Conflict.
For the applicability and/or enforceability validations, there is no error code defined in the current A1 specification. While the validation of the request message syntax may lead to rejection with HTTP client errors (4xx), e.g. the applicability and/or enforceability evaluation status may lead to rejection with HTTP server errors (5xx). It is for further study which 5xx errors could be appropriate, e.g.

- 501 Not Implemented could be used to indicate "not applicable"; and
- 503 Service Unavailable could be used to indicate "not enforceable".
> NOTE:	It could be considered to include some rejectDetails with the error codes that provides detailed information e.g. regarding the related configured and/or available capabilities. This content type could be similar/same as the one indicating changeReason in notifications of policy status change related to change in applicability and/or enforceability.

#### 5.5.4.3 Error codes for policy enforcement

Even if an A1 policy is validated as "enforceable", it may not result in an enforcement activity where enforceStatus is ENFORCED. Reasons for this could be related to required resources being consumed by other activities or objectives conflicting with other enforced policies. When rejecting the policy creation at this stage, the same HTTP server errors can be used as for the policy validation but also the 409 Conflict could be used in case Near-RT RIC detects a conflict regarding concurrent achievability of policy objects with existing A1 policies.

> NOTE:	If e.g. the 503 code is used even if the requested A1 policy was considered as "enforceable", it should be considered how that could be reflected in the rejectDetails

### 5.5.5 Potential clarifications

Based on the above considerations for the A1 policy creation scenarios, a major update could be made to incorporate fully asynchronous operations, or the following clarifications and minor enhancements could be made to the current A1 specification:

"Policy is possible to enforce" could be defined as "policy is applicable", and Near-RT RIC could reject requested A1 policies that are not applicable with e.g. a 501 Not Implemented. An enforceReason for SCOPE_APPLICABLE and STATEMENT_APPLICABLE could be added to cover status changes in both directions.

"Policy is enforced" in the current A1 specification should be understood as "enforcement activity has started, actions are taken, and enforceStatus is ENFORCED". To instead interpret "policy is enforced" merely as "enforcement activity has started, actions are taken" implies further concepts and definitions need to be considered, and this is covered by the partiality considerations in clause 6.

Formulations like "Non-RT RIC can assume" would not be needed (in relation to a 201 Creation message) if it is clearly recommended that Non-RT RIC query policy status after policy creation and Near-RT RIC only sets enforceStatus to ENFORCED if policy is created, or if an attribute value like UNDTERMINED is added for enforceStatus (and a corresponding state from which a transition will generate a policy status notification).

## 5.6 ACID properties of A1 policy transactions and enforcement

### 5.6.1 General

#### 5.6.1.1 Background

According to Wikipedia [i.8]:

"In computer science, ACID (atomicity, consistency, isolation, durability) is a set of properties of database transactions intended to guarantee data validity despite errors, power failures, and other mishaps. In the context of databases, a sequence of database operations that satisfies the ACID properties ... is called a transaction."

and in short, it is described (in the context of database systems) that:

- Atomicity guarantees that each transaction is treated as a single unit which either succeeds completely or fails completely;
- Consistency ensures that a transaction can only bring the system from one consistent system state to another;
- Isolation ensures that concurrent execution of transactions leave the system in the same state that would have been obtained if the transactions were executed sequentially, and
- Durability guarantees that a committed transaction will remain committed even in the case of a system failure.
This clause (i.e. clause 5.6.1) introduces general (i.e. not database-related) wordings that enable discussion of ACID properties of operations on a system that manage resources where a specific activity is performed related to each resource. These wordings are then applied in clauses 5.6.2 and 5.6.3 for discussing the properties of A1 transactions and the A1 policy enforcement activities related to A1 policies.

#### 5.6.1.2 Transactions and activities

The general system considered here provides an interface for lifecycle management (i.e. create, update, and delete) of the resources and their related activities, and for query and notification of activity status related. The transaction initiator can use the interface to operate on the resource (and thereby implicitly on the related activity) while it cannot explicitly operate on the activity. The transaction initiator can create/update/delete a resource while the system handles the related activity and indicates the activity status (i.e. if it is being performed or not). A successful create transaction results in a resource with a related activity that is being performed, and a successful update transaction results in that the activity related to the updated resources is being performed.

In the following,

- the context is a system that handles resources based on create/update/delete transactions for which related activities are performed when the resources exist;
- the "effect of the transaction" is the created/update/deleted resource and the related activity being performed if the resource exists;
- the "state of the system" represents the existing resources and activities being performed, and is expressed based on the state of the resources and the status of the activities;
- the "state of the resource" represents the existence of a resource that have a resource URI that can be used to lifecycle manage the resource and query the activity status; and
- the "status of the activity" represents the activity being performed, or not, when the resource exists.
The ACID properties of transactions and activities are described in clause 5.6.1.4 based on the general ACID properties described in clause 5.6.1.3.

#### 5.6.1.3 The ACID properties

##### 5.6.1.3.1 Atomicity

Atomicity would imply

- a transaction is treated as a single unit which either succeeds or fails completely; and
- an activity is either being performed or not performed at all.
> NOTE:	A successful create transaction results in a resource with a related activity that is being performed, and a successful update transactions results in that the activity related to the updated resources is being performed. In case of a failed transaction, the resource state (existing or not) and the activity status (performed or not if resource exists) is the same as before the transaction was initiated.

##### 5.6.1.3.2 Consistency

Consistency would imply

- the created/updated/deleted resource can be uniquely identified during its creation and existence, and the initiator of the transaction is informed about the resulting state of the resource, and the state of the resource does not change unless managed by the initiator; and
- the activity is related to assigned responsibility, and the initiator of the transaction is informed about the status of the activity, and the status of the activity does not change without the initiator being informed.
> NOTE:	It could be considered if information about the immediate activity status is to be part of the transaction or not. For some transactions, where the status of the activity has some explicit relation to the outcome of the transaction, it may be reasonable to consider information about the status of the activity to be part of the transaction.

##### 5.6.1.3.3 Isolation

Isolation would imply

- the effect of transactions is independent of the order they are executed, and a transaction has no impact on the effect of other transactions; and
- an activity related to one resource can be performed irrespective of activities related to other resources.
> NOTE:	This would imply a transaction cannot have impact on the activities created by previous transactions and an ongoing activity cannot have impact on the handling of new transactions.

##### 5.6.1.3.4 Durability

Durability would imply

- a transaction has effect even in case of restart or recovery after system failure; and
- an activity is maintained after a restart or recovery of a system failure.
> NOTE:	This would imply that the resource state and the activity status can be persistently stored separately, or that the transactions can be persistently stored, and their effect replicated.

#### 5.6.1.4 ACID properties of transactions and activities

The transactions defined in clause 5.6.1.2 show

- atomicity property since a resource either exist, or do not exist after a transaction;
- consistency property since the resource is being identified, and if information about the resource state, and changes to it, is provided to the initiator of the transaction;
- isolation property when related to different resources (while a delete transaction and an update transaction on the same resource would not appear to be isolated); and
- durability property if resources have the same state after restart or recovery as they had before.
The activities defined in clause 5.6.1.2 show

- atomicity property since an activity related to an existing resource is either performed or not performed;
- consistency property since an activity can be identified by the resource identifier, and if information about the activity status, and changes to it, is provided to the initiator of the transaction;
- isolation property for different activities (given they are related to different and unique resources and can be performed independently); and
- durability property if activity status is maintained after restart or recovery.

### 5.6.2 A1 policy transactions

#### 5.6.2.1 General

Referring to clause 5.6.1.2, the A1 policy is the resource being operated on using the A1 policy transactions and the activity is the A1 policy enforcement activity related to an existing A1 policy.

An A1 Create/Update/Delete policy transaction consists of one request message and one response message, and additional messages needed to convey the effect of the transaction (i.e. the resource state and the activity status) in case that is not covered by the response message.

- For the Create policy and Update policy transactions, an additional query or notification message may be needed to inform the transaction initiator about the resource state (A1 policy exists or not) and/or the activity status (A1 policy is enforced or not).
- For the Delete policy transaction no additional message is needed since a successful deletion implies the A1 policy no longer exist and, thus, no enforcement activity is no longer performed related to the A1 policy (that no longer exist).
While a Create policy transaction is being handled (i.e. after a Create policy transaction is initiated but before it is completed), the A1 policy may not exist and the transaction itself would have the status of being "under evaluation". If the Create policy transaction is handled stepwise so that the A1 policy is created before the enforcement status is determined, the enforcement status would have the value "under evaluation" until the transaction is completed.

> NOTE:	These descriptions of A1 policy transactions go beyond what is covered in the current A1 specification. This to enable considerations both of what the current A1 specification covers as well as of future potential enhancements.
The ACID properties of A1 policy transactions are described in the following based on the general considerations in clause 5.6.1.4.

#### 5.6.2.2 ACID properties of A1 policy transactions

##### 5.6.2.2.1 Atomicity

The A1 policy transactions, as defined in the current A1 specification, are atomic in the sense that:

- a Create policy transaction results in a specified policy being created, or a rejection of the policy creation request without the policy being created;
- an Update policy transaction results in a policy remains existing after being updated, or not being updated; and
- a Delete policy transaction results in an existing policy ceasing to exist, or remains existing in case deletion was not accepted/successful.
The current A1 specification does not allow for any partly created/updated/deleted A1 policies or any ambiguity regarding if an A1 policy exists or not after a transaction.

##### 5.6.2.2.2 Consistency

The A1 policy transactions, as defined in the current A1 specification, are consistent in the sense that they refer to a unique resource identifier (the policyId), and the state of the resource (i.e. the existence of the A1 policy) does not change between transactions since the lifecycle management responsibility is clear (i.e. creation, update, and deletion of A1 policies can only be initiated by the Non-RT RIC).

They are also consistent considering that the information about the enforcement activity status is provided by

- a successful Create policy transaction assumingly results in a created policy where the enforcement status is ENFORCED;
- a successful Update policy transaction results in an updated policy where the enforcement status is ENFORCED; and
- status change notifications can be subscribed to.

##### 5.6.2.2.3 Isolation

The A1 policy transactions, as defined in the current A1 specification, are isolated in the sense that transactions on different A1 policies can be initiated in any order.

> NOTE:	By definition, isolation cannot apply to transactions on the same A1 policy since Delete policy and Update policy transactions cannot be executed in any order.
When considering the effect of the transactions (i.e. including the A1 policy enforcement activities related to existing A1 policies):

- an A1 policy transaction cannot interfere with the enforcement activity related to another existing A1 policy; while
- the enforcement activity related to existing A1 policy may imply that a Create/Update policy transaction on another A1 policy gets rejected,
the order may be significant and the A1 policy transactions cannot be considered as fully isolated.

##### 5.6.2.2.4 Durability

The A1 policy transactions, as defined in the current A1 specification, cannot be considered as durable since the transactions are not required to be persistently stored and brought back in effect after a system recovery or restart.

> NOTE:	A1 policies may not survive a re-start of the Near-RT RIC (see A1GAP [i.1], clause 4.1.3.1). A Near-RT RIC implementation may, but is not required to, show durability properties regarding A1 policy transactions.

### 5.6.3 A1 policy enforcement

#### 5.6.3.1 General

Only an existing A1 policy can be enforced. The enforcement status is either ENFORCED or NOT_ENFORCED.

The enforcement status can be checked using the Query policy status procedure. When there is a change in enforcement status, this can be notified using the Notify policy status procedure.

> NOTE:		These procedures are not considered here from a transactional perspective since they cannot change any resource state or activity status. As described in A1GAP [i.1], clause 5.1.3 and figure 5.1.3-1, the Non-RT RIC view of the activity status of the Near-RT RIC may be different if relying only on the Query policy status procedure than if subscribing to status change notifications.
The ACID properties of A1 policy enforcement activities are described in the following based on the general considerations in clause 5.6.1.4.

#### 5.6.3.2 ACID properties of A1 policy enforcement

##### 5.6.3.2.1 Atomicity

The A1 policy enforcement activities, as defined in the current A1 specification, are atomic in the sense that the enforcement status of an existing policy

- either is ENFORCED or NOT_ENFORCED; and
- cannot be "undefined" or "partly enforced".

##### 5.6.3.2.2 Consistency

The A1 policy enforcement activities, as defined in the current A1 specification, are consistent in the sense that

- they are identified by a unique resource identifier (the policyId); and
- the enforcement status is determined by Near-RT RIC and Non-RT RIC is (implicitly) informed about status in the transaction response messages and can be notified about status changes.

##### 5.6.3.2.3 Isolation

The A1 policy enforcement activities, as defined in the current A1 specification, could be considered as isolated in the sense that

- each A1 policy is independently considered as enforceable, or not, based on the A1 policy enforcement capabilities of the Near-RT RIC, but
should in general not be considered as isolated due to that

- all A1 policy enforcement activities rely on the required resources being available, but the total resource utilization and A1 policy conflicts may imply that not all the existing A1 policies are concurrently considered as enforceable.

##### 5.6.3.2.4 Durability

The A1 policy enforcement activities, as defined in the current A1 specification, cannot be considered as durable since the A1 policies may no longer exist (and hence the related enforcement activities cannot be performed) after a system restart (see A1GAP [i.1], clause 4.1.3.1).

> NOTE:	A Near-RT RIC implementation may, but is not required to, show durability properties regarding A1 policy enforcement activities.

### 5.6.4 Summary

The analysis in clauses 5.6.2 and 5.6.3 is summarized in table 5.6.4-1.

|  | A1 policy transactions | A1 policy enforcement |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Atomicity | yes |  |
| Consistency | yes |  |
| Isolation | somewhat |  |
| Durability | no |  |

Even if this implies that A1 policy transactions currently cannot be defined as "a sequence of operations that satisfies ACID properties", it may still be relevant to use the terminology of A1 policy transactions when describing operations and message sequences related to A1 policy lifecycle management and enforcement status. Referring to the ACID properties could still be relevant when addressing impact of enhanced descriptions and introduction of partiality aspects.

To define, in the context of A1 policy management, A1 policy transactions and enforcement activities that satisfies the ACID properties, the following could be considered:

- persistent storage; and
- solutions that enable avoiding policy conflicts and enable concurrent resource utilization (to ensure that an existing A1 policy enforcement activity does not impact the handling of transactions related to other A1 policies).
> NOTE 1:	These considerations may not cover all aspects needed to satisfy the ACID properties defined in this clause.
> NOTE 2:	It is not studied in the present document if an introduction of partiality-related definitions and features would have any impact on how ACID properties are defined and analysed for A1 transactions and A1 policy enforcement.

# 6 Partial enforcement of A1 policies

## 6.1 Introduction

An A1 policy may lead to impact on multiple UEs that may be connected to different cells, or on multiple cells. A single UE may be

- connected to several cells and those cells may be under control of different E2 nodes and even by different Near-RT RICs; and
- impacted by several A1 policies possibly sent to several Near-RT RICs.
A1 policies can be created by rApps running in the Non-RT RIC (see further the Non-RT RIC Architecture [i.5]) but this has no implications for the considerations in the present document.

Figure 6.1-1 illustrates the entities involved when describing how an A1 policy is handled and has impact on cells and UEs. It is based on the common understanding (see O-RAN Architecture Description [i.6]) that

- a Near-RT RIC has an A1 interface to only one Non-RT RIC;
- an E2 node is handled by only one Near-RT RIC;
- a cell is handled by only one E2 node; and
- a UE may be connected to multiple cells.
In addition

- a UE can have multiple sessions established for different QoS identifiers; and
- a UE can belong to, and cells may be configured for, multiple slices.
The cells and slices represent examples of the A1 policy enforcement capabilities of a Near-RT RIC as described in clause 5.3.3.1. In clause 5.3.3, applicability is described in relation to the configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities and enforceability is in clause 5.3.4 described in relation to the available A1 policy enforcement capabilities.

The term partial applicability can be used to describe the situation when the scope of an A1 policy is not completely covered by the configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities (e.g. when enforcement of a requested A1 policy requires usage of more cells than the Near-RT RIC is configured for handling), and partial enforceability can be used to describe the situation when the scope of an A1 policy is not completely covered by the available A1 policy enforcement capabilities (e.g. when all the cells required for enforcement of an A1 policy are not operational).

> NOTE:	As described in clause 6.2, the complete definition of applicability and enforceability also includes considerations of the objectives and resources statements in addition to the scope.
For an A1 policy to be fully enforced, the required A1 policy enforcement capabilities must be available and hence covered by the configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities. If the required A1 policy enforcement capabilities are a superset of the configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities, the A1 policy cannot be fully enforced but it can be partly enforced if some of the required A1 policy enforcement capabilities are available. The term partial enforcement would refer to the activity and actions that strive to achieve the objectives of an existing A1 policy using a subset of the required A1 policy enforcement capabilities (i.e. enforcement of an A1 policy that is fully, or partly, applicable but only partly enforceable).

Figure 6.1-2 illustrates the partial enforcement of an applicable but partly enforceable policy while figure 6.1-3 illustrates the partial enforcement of a partly applicable and partly enforceable policy.

## 6.2 Partial applicability and enforceability of A1 policies

### 6.2.1 Introduction

Applicability (as introduced in clause 5.3) relates the scope of an A1 policy to the configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities while enforceability (as introduced in clause 5.4) relates the scope to the available A1 policy enforcement capabilities. To introduce partiality, the applicability and enforceability terms used in clause 5.3 and 5.4 could be reformulated.

An A1 policy would be

- "fully applicable" in case it has a fully applicable scope, the objectives statement is fully applicable, and the resources statement is fully applicable;
- "not applicable" in case it has a not applicable scope, or the objectives statement is not applicable, or no part of the resources statement is applicable; and
- "partly applicable" otherwise,
and

- "fully enforceable " in case it has a fully enforceable scope, the objectives statement is fully applicable, and the cells in the resources statement are available;
- "not enforceable" in case it has a not enforceable scope, or the objectives statement is not applicable, or no cell in the resources statement is available; and
- "partly enforceable" otherwise
where the objectives statement would be

- "fully applicable" in case all objectives, the combinations of them, are supported and all attribute values are reasonable;
- "not applicable" in case none of the objectives can be used or none of the attribute values are reasonable; and
- "partly applicable" otherwise.

### 6.2.2 Scope applicability and enforceability

An A1 policy would have a

- "fully applicable scope" in case it contains a scope that is completely covered by the configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities;
- "partly applicable scope" in case it contains a scope that is partly covered by the configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities; and
- "not applicable scope" in case it contains a scope where no part is covered by the configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities,
and

- "fully enforceable scope" in case it contains a scope that is completely covered by the available A1 policy enforcement capabilities;
- "partly enforceable scope" in case it contains a scope that is partly covered by the available A1 policy enforcement capabilities; and
- "not enforceable scope" in case it contains a scope where no part is covered by the available A1 policy enforcement capabilities.
> NOTE:	Comparing to the terms used in clause 5.4, "fully applicable/enforceable" corresponds to the previous applicable/enforceable while the previous "not applicable/enforceable" is redefined and complemented with "partly applicable/enforceable".
Figure 6.2.2-1 illustrates the corresponding reformulations of those used in figure 5.4.3.3-1.

In clause 5.3.1, the enforceReason attribute value SCOPE_NOT_APPLICABLE was mentioned as currently defined for the status change from ENFORCED to NOT_ENFORCED for a reason that corresponds to that the scope is no longer completely covered by the configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities. The current A1 specifications do not cover how to indicate any difference between not applicable and partly applicable.

When introducing partiality aspect, it seems natural to consider the following aspects:

- Would there be a need for additional enforceReason attribute values to distinguish partly applicable from not applicable?
- Would there be a need for additional enforceReason attribute values to indicate status changes related to fully enforceable, partly enforceable, and not enforceable? If so, do they replace the need for attributes values related to applicability?
- Would there be a need for reject reason attribute values to indicate if an A1 policy creation/update request is rejected due to non or partial applicability/enforceability?
- Would there be a need for additional information to be provided when partly applicable/enforceable is used as a reason for reject or change?
- Would there be a need for additional enforceStatus attribute values to indicate "PARTIALLY_ENFORCED"?
> NOTE:		This clause does not cover "partial achievement of policy objectives", i.e. the potential impact of partiality on the ability to achieve the policy objectives when a requested policy is considered as applicable/enforceable.

### 6.2.3 Options for defining and interpreting enforceStatus

When introducing partiality aspects for enforceStatus, four cases are possible when considering extending the current enforceStatus attribute values, and their relation to enforceability, see clauses 4.4.2, and 6.2.1:

- Case 0:	"ENFORCED  fully enforceable" & "NOT_ENFORCED  not fully enforceable";
- Case 1:	"ENFORCED  fully enforceable" & "NOT_ENFORCED  partly enforceable or not enforceable";
- Case 2:	"ENFORCED  fully enforceable or partly enforceable" & "NOT_ENFORCED  not enforceable"; and
- Case 3:	"ENFORCED  fully enforceable" & "PARTIALLY_ENFORCED  partly enforceable" & "NOT_ENFORCED  not enforceable".
Case 0 is the current case without any partiality considerations, Case 1 and 2 are two alternatives for considering partiality with the current attribute values, while Case 3 introduces a third attribute value to explicitly handle partiality.

Referring to terms introduced in clause 6.2.1, and depending on the Case, the relation between enforceability and the enforcement status can be expressed:

- An enforced A1 policy (i.e. an A1 policy for which enforceStatus is ENFORCED) is an existing A1 policy that is fully (or partly) enforceable, and enforcement actions are taken for all (or some) parts of the A1 policy;
- A partially enforced A1 policy (i.e. an A1 policy for which enforceStatus is PARTIALLY_ENFORCED) is an existing A1 policy that is partly enforceable, and enforcement actions are taken for some parts of the A1 policy;
- A not enforced A1 policy (i.e. an A1 policy for which enforceStatus is NOT_ENFORCED) is an existing A1 policy that is not enforceable (or partly enforceable) or is not being enforced for other reasons.

### 6.2.4 Options for defining and interpreting enforceReason

#### 6.2.4.1 General

The current enforceReason attribute is used to indicate the reason for a change from ENFORCED to NOT_ENFORCED. There is no corresponding attribute to indicate the reason for a change from NOT_ENFORCED to ENFORCED.

The current enforceReason attribute value NOT_APPLICABLE indicates there has been a change in capabilities implying the A1 policy can no longer be (fully) enforced.

> NOTE: 	NOT_APPLICABLE here covers both the current attributes values SCOPE_ NOT_APPLICABLE and STATEMENT_NOT_APPLICABLE. In addition, there could be further attribute values or other reasons.
When introducing partiality aspects for the enforceReason attribute, the change reasons should reflect transitions between the states indicated by the enforceStatus attributes values, i.e. the considerations depend on which case defined in clause 6.2.3 that they relate to.

#### 6.2.4.2 Reasons for change in enforceability of scope

To indicate status change reasons related to changes in available A1 policy enforcement capabilities, i.e. changes in enforceability, new attributes values could be considered: SCOPE_NOT_ENFORCEABLE, SCOPE_PARTLY_ENFORCEBLE, and SCOPE_ENFORCEABLE.

> NOTE:	In addition to the value of the changeReason attribute, it could be considered to include information in the status change notification regarding which A1 policy enforcement capabilities has been changed.
The appliance of these new change reason attribute values for the cases defined in clause 6.2.2 are illustrated in figure 6.2.4.2-1.

SCOPE_NOT_ENFORCEABLE indicates the available A1 policy enforcement capabilities no longer cover any part of the scope and hence the A1 policy is not enforced.

SCOPE_ ENFORCEABLE indicates the available A1 policy enforcement capabilities now cover all parts of the scope and hence the A1 policy is enforced.

SCOPE_ PARTLY_ENFORCEABLE indicates the available A1 policy enforcement capabilities now cover a part of the scope. The A1 policy is enforced, partly enforced, or not enforced (depending on the considered case).

#### 6.2.4.3 Reasons for change in applicability of scope

When considering the different A1 policy enforcement capabilities introduced in clause 5.3, and the difference between enforceability and applicability, the SCOPE_NOT_APPLICABLE attribute value would relate to changes in the configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities. The current definition of the changeReason attribute value SCOPE_NOT_APPLICABLE covers cases 0 and 1 where the A1 policy becomes NOT_ENFORCED since the configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities no longer cover all parts of the policy scope and the A1 policy is not enforced. It can also cover the transitions (from ENFORCED to PARTIALLY_ENFORCED, and from PARTIALLY_ENFORCED -> NOT_ENFORCED) for case 3 while it cannot cover the transition (to NOT_ENFORCED) for case 2 as transition implies “no part is covered” rather than “not all parts are covered”.

A new attribute value SCOPE_APPLICABLE could be introduced for case 0, 1, and 3 to cover when the A1 policy becomes ENFORCED due to that the configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities now cover all parts of the policy scope and hence the A1 policy is enforced.

The appliance of these change reason attribute values related to scope applicability for the cases defined in clause 6.2.3 are illustrated in figure 6.2.4.3-1.

SCOPE_NOT_ APPLICABLE indicates the configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities no longer covers all parts of the scope and hence the A1 policy is not enforced.

SCOPE_ APPLICABLE indicates the configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities now cover all parts of the scope and hence the A1 policy is enforced.

> NOTE:	It is not studied in the present document if there is any need for extending the definitions of change reasons related to applicability, e.g. adding PARTLY_APPLICABLE, or if the relevant status changes are sufficiently covered by the change reasons related to enforceability.

### 6.2.5 Changes in A1 policy enforcement capabilities

Two scenarios can be distinguished related to how often A1 policy enforcement capabilities could change and what consequences such changes may have on monitoring and lifecycle management of A1 policies:

- In the first scenario, the normality is that the A1 policy enforcement capabilities available when an A1 policy was created remains available for most A1 policy creations and during enforcement of the A1 policies, and
- in the second scenario, the normality is that the available A1 policy enforcement capabilities change between A1 policy creations and during enforcement of an A1 policy.
For the first scenario, the enforceability can be full or partial while the achievability of the objectives could depend on which of the A1 policy enforcement capabilities that are available.

For the second scenario, the achievability of the objectives may change, and the achievement may need to be evaluated, due the changes in availability of the A1 policy enforcement capabilities.

In both scenarios,

- detailed information regarding partial enforceability may be beneficial for monitoring and evaluation of the achievement of the objectives of an enforced A1 policy; and
- the enforceStatus and enforceReason attribute values give basic guidance for lifecycle management of A1 policies but they may not be sufficient to guide the Non-RT RIC in all cases impacted by partiality. Detailed change information including the partiality aspects could be valuable. This could be provided in the PolicyStatusObject that could be based on a policy type specific status schema.
> NOTE 1:	For scenario 1, the detailed information regarding partial enforceability could be queried (since changes do not occur often) while for scenario 2 it could also be provided in change notifications (since changes normally occur).
> NOTE 2:	It is not studied in the present document if the detailed partiality information in a change notification would cover all the available A1 policy enforcement capabilities, or just the change of the available A1 policy enforcement capabilities. If only the change (e.g. cell 135 not operational) is notified, the information of the currently available A1 policy enforcement capabilities may need to be queryable.
The enforceStatus and enforceReason attribute values, and the monitoring of the achievability of the objectives, enable the Non-RT RIC to lifecycle manage its A1 policies.  The extended attributes values discussed in clause 6.2.3 and 6.2.4, and detailed change information in PolicyStatusObject, could be beneficial in the presence of partiality. In either scenario, the policy status notification could be sent whenever there is a change in partiality (assuming the notification content can be more granular than the attribute value changes) and it would be clear for Non-RT RIC when policy status and A1 policy enforcement capabilities may need to be queried, or policy status notifications could be expected.

## 6.3 Partiality scenarios

### 6.3.1 Introduction

This clause illustrates various scenarios that could occur depending on rules and conditions that have not yet been defined or agreed. The scenarios are based on definitions and concepts illustrated in previous clauses in the present document. Specifically, the definitions of A1 policy enforcement capabilities (see clause 5.3.2), acceptability (see clause 5.4.3.2), applicability and enforceability (see clauses 5.4.3.3 and 6.2),  the enhanced descriptions of A1 transactions (see clause 5.5), and the definitions of partial applicability and enforceability (see clause 6.2) are used for these partiality scenarios.

Partiality has effect on policy creation transactions and on policy enforcement activities. Aspects of partiality can result in acceptance or rejection of a policy creation request, and impact the status of the policy enforcement activity for an existing A1 policy.

Partiality can be related to changes in the A1 policy enforcement capabilities where the configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities may not change as often as the available A1 policy enforcement capabilities may do. Changes in the available A1 policy enforcement capabilities may impact an A1 policy enforcement activity and could be indicated in a policy status change notification.

> NOTE:	A change in the configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities may imply a change to the available A1 policy enforcement capabilities. It may be relevant to indicate in a policy status change notification if the change reason is related also to the configured, or only to the available, A1 policy enforcement capabilities (see clause 6.2.4.3).
Information related to the configured, and available, A1 policy enforcement capabilities could be beneficial for the Non-RT RIC to be aware of before initiating a policy creation transaction as they represent Near-RT RIC constraints for A1 policy enforcement. Such constraints would indicate what expectations Non-RT RIC can have on the outcome of a policy creation request and on the enforcement activity for an A1 policy, and awareness of such constraints would enable formulation of a requested A1 policy that may be possible to enforce.

### 6.3.2 Policy type related constraints and status

#### 6.3.2.1 General

As discussed in clause 5.3.3.1, the A1 policy enforcement capabilities are specific for a supported A1 policy type and could be described based on the scope identifier attributes. The A1 policy enforcement capabilities represent the constraints for requested A1 policies the Near-RT RIC would consider as applicable and/or enforceable.

> NOTE:	If Near-RT RIC rejects policy creation requests based on such constraints, the constraints would provide an indication of what Near-RT RIC considers as an acceptable/enforceable A1 policy. An accepted A1 policy would then be "possible to enforce" is the sense that is applicable and/or enforceable.
The scope identifier can contain any values of the attributes (as defined by the common schema defined in A1TD [i.4], clause 7.1.2.1) and the constraints would express which values the Near-RT RIC can handle.

Constraints expressed by Near-RT RIC could also be related to supported attributes and attribute values ranges related to objectives statements.

In case the constraints change, e.g. the available A1 policy enforcement capabilities are no longer the same as the configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities, or none of the configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities are currently available, the Non-RT RIC could benefit from being notified.

#### 6.3.2.2 Policy type constraints related to scope

The configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities represent what Near-RT RIC is configured for. The nodes and cells Near-RT RIC can be handle would be part of the topology, and hence that information could be assumed to be available to Non-RT RIC. As a complement, the configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities could be made available over the A1 interface.

Other aspects of the Near-RT RIC configuration not related to topology, and the information of the available A1 policy enforcement capabilities, may not be covered by the topology but could be made available over the A1 interface as constraints.

Policy type constraints could be made available over the A1 interface as part of a Query policy type constraints operation as illustrated in figure 6.3.2.2-1.

It is assumed in figure 6.3.2.2-1 that the constraints are policy type specific. In such case they could alternatively be included in the PolicyTypeObject in the normal Query policy type operation.

Scope identifier related constraints could be expressed using a generic constraints schema related to the common schema defined in A1TD [i.4], clause 7.1.2.1.

#### 6.3.2.3 Policy type constraints related to objectives

The A1 policy types defined in A1TD [i.4], clause 7.2, enables several combinations of attributes to be included in the objectives statement of an A1 policy. If a Near-RT RIC does not support all attributes, or all combinations of supported attributes, that can be expressed as constraints. Also, if Near-RT RIC considers certain attribute values as unreasonable or not applicable, the supported attribute value ranges can be expressed as constraints.

Policy objectives related constraints could be expressed based on a constraints schema related to the policy schema of the A1 policy type.

> NOTE:	In the same way as EI job related constraints, see A1TD [i.4], clause 8.4.5.

#### 6.3.2.4 Policy type constraints related to allowed combinations

In A1TD [i.4], clause 7.2, each policy type definition includes a table of the allowed combinations of scope identifier attributes and objective statements. Just like a Near-RT RIC may not support all the specified objectives attributes, and not all combinations of supported objective attributes, it may not support all the specified scope identifier attributes and thereby not all the allowed combinations.

Constraints related to scope identifier attributes and allowed combinations could also be expressed as part of policy type constraints.

#### 6.3.2.5 Policy type status

In the same way as the status of an A1 policy enforcement activity is expressed as "policy status" using the enforceStatus attribute, the status of the functionality related to enforcement of A1 policies of a certain A1 policy type can expressed as "policy type status" using an attribute like e.g. opStatus.

Policy type status can be queried, and policy type status changes could be notified, over the A1 interface as illustrated in figure 6.3.2.5-1.

> NOTE:	The use cases for policy type status are specified in A1UCR [i.2], clause 6.2.
The opStatus attribute could have the following values:

- OPERABLE if all the configured A1 enforcement capabilities are available;
- INOPERABLE if none of the configured A1 enforcement capabilities are available; and
- PART_OPERABLE if some, but not all, of the configured A1 enforcement capabilities are available.
The opStatus attribute values have some general relations with the enforceStatus attribute values for individual A1 policies such that:

- when policy type status is INOPERABLE, no A1 policy can be fully or partly enforced, and hence enforceStatus is NOT_ENFORCED for all existing A1 policies;
- when policy type status is OPERABLE, all existing A1 policies can be fully enforced, and hence enforceStatus can be ENFORCED, but a specific A1 policy may be NOT_ENFORCED for other reasons; and
- when policy type status is PART_OPERABLE, there is no general relation with enforceStatus of individual A1 policies as they can be either fully, partly, or not enforced depending on the extent to which their scope is covered by the available A1 policy enforcement capabilities, but a specific A1 policy may be NOT_ENFORCED for other reasons.
The relation between policy type status changes and policy status changes for individual A1 policies would be depending the general relations, as well as on which Case (see clause 6.2.3) is used for defining the meaning of the enforceStatus attribute values, and this is further elaborated in clause 6.3.6.3.

### 6.3.3 Partiality and applicability

#### 6.3.3.1 General

The partiality information related to applicability and enforceability could be expressed using the same attributes both when considering constraints and change notifications. In both cases, content transferred over the A1 interface need to indicate if the attributes apply to configured or to available A1 policy enforcement capabilities.

> NOTE 1:	When expressing constraints, the partiality information would contain the set of complete A1 policy enforcement capabilities while for change notifications it is for further consideration if partiality information would be expressed as the "complete capabilities" or only indicate the "capability change".
> NOTE 2:	It should be further considered if it is useful and reasonable to send a change notification for every change in the available A1 policy enforcement capabilities during partial enforcement, or if it may cause extensive signalling while providing minor value.
In case a policy creation request would be rejected due to partiality as discussed in clause 5.5.4.2, partiality information could be provided in the response message that indicates the constraints-related reason for the reject. Alternatively, the error code of the response message indicates that details can be retrieved by a query for constraints.

> NOTE 3:	When expressing a reject reason, it is for further consideration if partiality information would be expressed as the "current capabilities" or as the "missing capabilities".

#### 6.3.3.2 Applicability

When receiving a policy creation request, the Near-RT RIC validates if it "possible to enforce" the requested A1 policy. Assumingly this means Near-RT RIC would not accept the policy creation request if it does not have any of the required A1 policy enforcement capabilities, e.g. when the A1 policy is considered as "not applicable" or "not enforceable" at time of evaluating the requested A1 policy (see clause 5.5).

Partial applicability covers a situation when the scope of an A1 policy is not completely covered by the configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities. If a requested A1 policy considered as "partly applicable" was accepted, it would result in ambiguities during policy enforcement since enforceability is only expressed related the applicable part of the scope of the accepted A1 policy, i.e. the A1 policy could be considered as "fully enforceable" although the requested scope is not covered.

The current A1 specification does not exclude policy creation when the requested A1 policy has a "partly applicable scope" if it has a "fully enforceable scope" (referring to the applicable part of the requested scope). For the present considerations on partiality scenarios, "possible to enforce" implies the requested A1 policy is "applicable" and the policy creation request is rejected (e.g. with the 501 code) in case the requested A1 policy is considered as "not applicable" or "partly applicable".

> NOTE:	To be acceptable, the requested A1 policy must be a valid and (fully) applicable A1 policy. Near-RT RIC may, though, reject a policy creation request for other reasons.
Non-RT RIC could use topology information or queried policy type constraints to formulate applicable A1 policies to avoid, or as consequence of, rejection of policy creation requests with reject reason related to applicability.

### 6.3.4 Policy creation transactions

#### 6.3.4.1 Enforceability

A successful A1 policy creation transaction results in creation of an A1 policy that is "possible to enforce" and for every existing A1 policy there is an enforcement activity with known enforcement status.

> NOTE1:	Referring to the considerations in clause 5.5 and 6.3.3.2, the detailed principles for policy creation transactions could be formulated "For a requested A1 policy to be created it has to be applicable" and "For an existing A1 policy, the enforceStatus has a value and there will be an enforcement activity, and after the enforcement activity has started the enforceStatus attribute value reflects the status of the enforcement activity".
Partiality enables scenarios where the enforceability can be partial and may change during enforcement. In addition, partiality needs to be considered during the evaluation of a policy creation request. Handling partiality during enforcement implies a requested A1 policy could be accepted based on the applicability and enforceability validation without further conditions on what the status of the enforcement activity is, or will be, after the creation of the A1 policy.

> NOTE 2:	Compared to the description in clause 5.5.2.2, this clause does not consider rejection of policy creation requests in cases where the A1 policy would not be (fully) enforced after accepting the creation request. To be acceptable, the requested A1 policy must be valid and (fully) applicable. It remains to be considered if acceptability also could/should be related to if the requested A1 policy is considered as fully enforceable, or as fully or partly enforceable.
> NOTE 3:	An approach where policy creation is accepted only if enforcement activity has started, and enforcement status is "fully enforced", is covered by the transactions illustrated in figures 5.5.2.2-1 and 5.5.3.2-1 and is not further considered in the present clause.
Different approaches exist for further interpreting "possible to enforce" in terms of enforceability when accepting a policy creation request, e.g.:

- Approach A: Policy creation is accepted only if the requested A1 policy is "fully enforceable". The value of the enforceStatus attribute can then be ENFORCED when policy enforcement activity is started, or
- Approach B: Policy creation is accepted if the requested A1 policy is "fully enforceable" or "partly enforceable". The value of the enforceStatus attribute when starting policy enforcement would depend on which case (as defined in clause 6.2.3) is applied.
Approach A implies it can be reasonable for Non-RT RIC to assumed that the A1 policy will be fully enforced after creation. Given that it is possible for the A1 policy to be fully enforced after creation, it seems relevant to apply usage of the attribute value ENFORCED as defined for Case 1 or 3. If enforceStatus after creation, and start of enforcement activity, is not ENFORCED then it is a very specific (and rather unexpected) outcome of the start of enforcement of a fully enforceable policy.

Approach B implies an assumption on what the enforcement status will be after creation of the A1 policy has to be based on detailed information such as the available A1 policy enforcement capabilities. Given that it is reasonable that the A1 policy is fully or partially enforced after creation, it seems relevant to apply usage of the attribute value NOT_ENFORCED as defined for Case 2 or 3. If enforceStatus after creation, and start of enforcement activity is NOT_ENFORCED then it is a very specific (and rather unexpected) outcome of the start of enforcement of a fully/partly enforceable policy.

#### 6.3.4.2 Expectations (from Non-RT RIC perspective)

Assuming there is only one transaction specified for A1 policy creation (like the current PUT-based create policy operation), the Non-RT RIC would not know what outcome to expect unless it is aware of if Near-RT RIC evaluates the requested A1 policy according to Approach A or Approach B (as defined in clause 6.3.4.1), or if it accepts policy creation if policy is fully enforced. One option for making Non-RT RIC aware is to include information of implemented approach in the constraints, another option is to specify one approach in the A1 specification with updated details for the service operation.

Alternatively, several approaches and/or service operations could be specified and implemented if Non-RT RIC is enabled to select one when requesting policy creation and thereby knows what outcome to expect and how it is indicated. One option for enabling Non-RT RIC to select is to define different transactions and another option is to enable Non-RT RIC to express the approach as part of the policy creation request.

The two approaches A and B are illustrated in figure 6.3.4.1-1 based on assumption that the same PUT request is used while the responses depend on different design patterns.

> NOTE: 	All possible combinations of the approaches defined in clause 6.3.4.1 and the transactions illustrated in clauses 5.5.3.2 and 5.5.3.3 are not included. Figure 6.3.4.1-1 only illustrates one example of how Non-RT RIC can be ensured about what can be expected.
A further alternative to address the expectations of Non-RT RIC is to enable it to rely on information about the policy type constraints of the Near-RT RIC, or at least on the policy type status. If the policy type status and constraints indicate that partial enforcement could be expected, then Non-RT RIC could either accept that or formulate a requested A1 policy based on the constraints (e.g. the available A1 policy enforcement capabilities) that would be considered as fully enforceable.

#### 6.3.4.3 Partial success

Given that Non-RT RIC can assume that an A1 policy is enforced after creation, then it would (without applying partiality definitions) consider that

- a successful policy creation/update transaction results in an (existing) A1 policy for which an enforcement activity has started and the enforcement status is enforced, and correspondingly
- an unsuccessful policy creation transaction does not result in an existing A1 policy, and
- an unsuccessful policy update transaction results in an (existing) A1 policy that has not been modified and enforcement status has not changed.
> NOTE 1:	The current A1 specification does not provide any guidance on if an outcome where the A1 policy is not enforced after creation is to be consider as successful or unsuccessful.
With the partiality definitions introduced in clause 6.1, and used in clause 6.2.4, "complete success" would mean the A1 policy is fully enforced while "partial success" would mean the A1 policy is partially enforced when describing the outcome of a policy creation transaction. Hence, a successful policy creation transaction results in enforcement of an (existing) A1 policy and partial success refers to a successful policy creation transaction that resulted in partial enforcement.

> NOTE 2:	Depending on the Case (see clause 6.2.3), an outcome where the A1 policy is created but enforceStatus is NOT_ENFORCED may be considered as partial success. E.g. figures 5.5.2.3-2 and 5.5.3.3-1 would for Case 1 cover complete success, partial success, as well as unsuccess.
> NOTE 3:	A more general definition would consider a transactions as successful if the enforcement status is known (irrespective of value) after creation of the A1 policy. In this case it would not be meaningful to consider a difference between complete and partial success.
The 201-response to a policy creation request would not indicate the difference between complete and partial success, instead Non-RT RIC could receive the corresponding information as part of a policy status operation. The 202-response illustrated in figure 5.5.3.3-1 implicitly indicates the degree of success as it includes the policy status.

> NOTE 4:	It was not considered in the present document if partial success could have been defined as using a 206 Partial Content response to indicate the part of the requested A1 policy that was accepted for creation and enforcement. Instead, it is suggested to reject a requested A1 policy if it is not applicable (see clause 6.3.3.2) and to keep having Non-RT RIC as owner of the A1 policy formulation.

### 6.3.5 Enforcement status changes

#### 6.3.5.1 General

During policy enforcement, the degree of (partial) enforceability may change due to change in the available A1 policy enforcement capabilities.

The enforceability may also change for other reasons such as e.g. lack of, or competition about, resources. In case those are feasible to detect and handle, the impact could be indicated as a change in the partiality details of the enforcement.

Another aspect of partiality could be the degree of achievement of the policy objectives and resource usage. E.g. in case of a policy conflict it may not be feasible to concurrently achieve the objectives or satisfy the conditions for resource usage.

> NOTE:	The partiality details related to conditions for resource usage can assumingly be indicated in a similar way to how A1 policy enforcement capabilities are notified. It is not studied in the present document if, and how, partial achievability of objectives can be indicated, and if it is meaningful.

#### 6.3.5.2 Case-dependent definitions of enforcement status

Clause 6.2.3 defines cases that relates the enforceStatus to enforceability, and brings partiality into definitions of "enforced A1 policy". Based on these, and considering that an A1 policy may not be enforced for other reasons than implied by its enforceability, the meaning of the enforceStatus attribute for the different cases can be defined as:

Case 1: If an A1 policy is fully enforceable, its enforcement status can be ENFORCED; and if it is partly enforceable or not enforceable, its enforcement status is NOT_ENFORCED. The meaning of the enforceStatus attribute values can then be expressed:

- An A1 policy for which enforceStatus is ENFORCED is an existing A1 policy that is fully enforceable, and enforcement actions are taken for all parts of the A1 policy;
- An A1 policy for which enforceStatus is NOT_ENFORCED is an existing A1 policy that is not enforceable, or partly enforceable, or is not being enforced for other reasons.
Case 2: If an A1 policy is fully enforceable or partly enforceable, its enforcement status can be ENFORCED; and if it is not enforceable, its enforcement status is NOT_ENFORCED. The meaning of the enforceStatus attribute values can then be expressed:

- An A1 policy for which enforceStatus is ENFORCED is an existing A1 policy that is fully or partly enforceable, and enforcement actions are taken for all or some parts of the A1 policy;
- An A1 policy for which enforceStatus is NOT_ENFORCED is an existing A1 policy that is not enforceable or is not being enforced for other reasons,
Case 3: If an A1 policy is fully enforceable, its enforcement status can be ENFORCED; if it is partly enforceable, its enforcement status can be PARTIALLY_ENFORCED; and if it is not enforceable, its enforcement status is NOT_ENFORCED. The meaning of the enforceStatus attribute values can then be expressed:

- An A1 policy for which enforceStatus is ENFORCED is an existing A1 policy that is fully enforceable, and enforcement actions are taken for all parts of the A1 policy;
- An A1 policy for which enforceStatus is PARTIALLY_ENFORCED is an existing A1 policy that is partly enforceable, and enforcement actions are taken for some parts of the A1 policy;
- An A1 policy for which enforceStatus is NOT_ENFORCED is an existing A1 policy that is not enforceable or is not being enforced for other reasons.

#### 6.3.5.3 Notify partial enforcement status

##### 6.3.5.3.1 Change in enforcement status related to scope enforceability

For the cases 1 to 3 defined in clause 6.2.3, and the status change reasons defined in clause 6.2.4, figures 6.3.5.3.1-1 to 3 illustrate the enforcement status changes and the content of the Notify policy status messages.

> NOTE:	Case 0 is covered by the current A1AP [i.3].
For Case 1 illustrated in figure 6.3.5.3.1-1, the detailed partiality information is included in messages sent to indicate that enforceStatus is NOT_ENFORCED unless enforceReason is SCOPE_NOT APPLICABLE, while no enforceReason is provided in case the notification only indicates a change in the partiality details (without a change in enforcement status).

For Case 2 illustrated in figure 6.3.5.3.1-2, the detailed partiality information is included in messages sent to indicate that enforceStatus is ENFORCED unless enforceReason is SCOPE_APPLICABLE, while no enforceReason is provided in case the notification only indicates a change in the partiality details (without a change in enforcement status).

For Case 3 illustrated in figure 6.3.5.3.1-3, the detailed partiality information is included in messages sent to indicate that enforceStatus is PARTIALLY_ENFORCED, while no enforceReason is provided in case the notification only indicates a change in the partiality details (without a change in enforcement status).

#### 6.3.5.4 Query partial enforcement status

##### 6.3.5.4.1 Enforcement status related to scope enforceability

For the cases 1 to 3 defined in clause 6.2.3, the detailed partiality information could be provided with the enforcement status in a query response. Depending on the case, the partiality details are only needed when the enforceStatus indicates that enforcement is, or may be, partial.

> NOTE:	In current A1AP [i.3] it is optional to include enforceReason in the query response message, if present it would reflect a situation when the A1 policy is fully enforceable or not enforceable since enforceReason would not be included in notifications with only partiality details.
For Case 1 illustrated in figure 6.3.5.4.1-1, the detailed partiality information would not be needed if the enforceReason indicates SCOPE_NOT_ENFORCEABLE.

For Case 2 illustrated in figure 6.3.5.4.1-2, the detailed partiality information would not be needed if the enforceReason indicates SCOPE_ENFORCEABLE.

For Case 3 illustrated in figure 6.3.5.4.1-3, the detailed partiality information would not be needed if the enforceReason indicates SCOPE_ENFORCEABLE or SCOPE_NOT_ENFORCEABLE.

### 6.3.6 Policy type status changes

#### 6.3.6.1 General

The ability to enforce A1 policies may change, e.g. due to change in the A1 policy enforcement capabilities, and this can be indicated as a change in policy type status (see clauses 6.3.2.5 and 6.3.4.2) as reflected in the opStatus attribute value.

#### 6.3.6.2 Query policy type status

The opStatus attribute would be included in the PolicyTypeStatusObject that may also contain an opReason attribute that reflects the reason for the latest status change.

> NOTE:	Cfr. the inclusion of the enforceStatus and enforceReason attributes in the PolicyStatusObject.

#### 6.3.6.3 Policy type status changes

##### 6.3.6.3.1 General

A change in status of the functionality related to enforcement of A1 policies of a certain type, caused by a change in the available A1 policy enforcement capabilities, is reflected as a change in the policy type status (see clause 6.3.2.5). A policy type status change can, but need not, imply a corresponding change in policy status of existing A1 policies of that type while a change in policy status can occur (for other reasons) without any related change to the associated policy type status.

A policy type status change from:

- OPERABLE to INOPERABLE causes a change in policy status for individual A1 policies (of that type) for which enforceStatus = ENFORCED (see note 1):
- OPERABLE to PART_OPERABLE can, but need not, cause a change in policy status for individual A1 policies (see notes 1 and 2); and
- PART_OPERABLE to INOPERABLE can, but need not, cause a change in enforceStatus for individual A1 policies (see notes 1 and 3).
and a policy type status change from:

- INOPERABLE to PART_INOPERABLE can, but need not, cause a change in enforceStatus for individual A1 policies (see notes 1 and 2).
- INOPERABLE to OPERABLE can, but need not, cause a change in enforceStatus for individual A1 policies (see note 1).
- PART_OPERABLE to OPERABLE can, but need not, cause a change in enforceStatus for individual A1 policies (see notes 1 and 4).
- NOTE 1:	If the policy status was NOT_ENFORCED due to other reasons, it would not change when the policy type status changes.
- NOTE 2:	If policy status was ENFORCED, it may remain ENFORCED, or if policy status was NOT_ENFORCED, it may become ENFORCED, if the scope is fully covered by the A1 policy enforcement capabilities available after the policy type status change.
- NOTE 3:	If the policy status was NOT_ENFORCED due that its scope was not fully/partly covered by available A1 policy enforcement capabilities, it would not change when the policy type status becomes INOPERABLE.
- NOTE 4:	If the policy status was ENFORCED due that its scope was fully covered by available A1 policy enforcement capabilities, it would not change when the policy type status becomes OPERABLE.

##### 6.3.6.3.2 Case specific considerations

Policy status and policy type status provide fundamental information for how Non-RT RIC could lifecycle manage an A1 policy by updating it, deleting it, or just waiting for some improvement in the availability of the A1 enforcement capabilities (or resolution of other issues) under assumption that it will improve the achievability of the objectives.

The definition of policy type status is based on A1 policy enforcement capabilities and does not depend on how the enforceStatus attributes values are defined and interpreted (see clause 6.3.5.2). The interpretation of enforceStatus, and policy status changes, depend on the case used for defining the meaning of enforceStatus. The policy status changes may, or may not, be correlated with a change in policy type status.

For Case 1, the policy type status complements the policy status for a specific A1 policy by indicating when the NOT_ENFORCED status could indicate that enforcement actions may be taken for some parts of the A1 policy.

For Case 2, the policy type status complements the policy status for a specific A1 policy by indicating when the ENFORCED status could indicate that enforcement actions are taken for some, rather than all, parts of the A1 policy.

For Case 3, the policy type status complements the policy status for a specific A1 policy by indicating when the policy status may be impacted by the extent to which the policy scope is covered by the available A1 policy enforcement capabilities.

> NOTE:	It is for further consideration what the relevant attribute values for opReason would be, and how they would relate to the enforceReason attribute values.

##### 6.3.6.3.3 Relations between policy type status, policy status, and status changes

Based on definitions and reasoning in clauses 5.5, 6.3.2.5, and 6.3.6.3, figure 6.3.6.3.3-1 illustrates the relation between policy type status and policy status, as well as policy type status changes and policy status changes.

Policy status of an individual A1 policy is based on the enforceability implied by the policy type status but could be impacted by other (dynamic) aspects such as e.g. resource or policy conflicts. Creation of a requested A1 policy is assumed to be based on the (full) applicability and the (full or partial) enforceability of the requested A1 policy, hence policy type status is assumed to be strictly defined based on the availability of configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities. If policy type status is OPERABLE, the requested A1 policy could be accepted (since fully enforceable) or could be rejected (for other reasons); and if policy type status is PART_OPERABLE, the requested A1 policy could be accepted (if fully or partially enforceable) or could be rejected (if not enforceable or for other reasons).

> NOTE 1:	A policy status change (for an A1 policy of a certain type) may be related to a change of the policy type status but may also occur for other reasons (when there is no change in policy type status).
> NOTE 2:	A policy type status change may, or may not, lead to a policy status change for an individual A1 policy.
> NOTE 3: Figure 6.3.6.3.3-1 illustrates Cases 1 and 2 in clause 6.2.3.

## 6.4 Life cycle management and state transitions

### 6.4.1 General

The state diagram in figure 6.4.1-1 reflects the state transitions after the transactions illustrated in figure 5.5.2.2-1 and 5.5.3.2-1 where policy creation is accepted after the enforcement status in known to be ENFORCED.

> NOTE:	This corresponds to figure 4.2.2-1 and is replicated here as basis for further elaborations in the following clauses.

### 6.4.2 Undetermined state

The state diagram in figure 6.4.2-1 reflects the state transitions after the transactions illustrated in figure 5.5.2.3-2 where status is initially UNDETERMINED after policy creation until determined and notified.

> NOTE 1: 	The transaction illustrated in figure 5.5.3.3-1 is similar in the sense that policy creation acceptance can lead to either value of the status.
> NOTE 2: 	It would be for further considerations if status should be reverted to UNDETERMINED during evaluation of a policy update request.

### 6.4.3 Partially enforced state

The state diagram in figure 6.4.3-1 reflects the state transitions after the transactions illustrated in figure 5.5.2.2-1 and 5.5.3.2-1 in Case 3 (see clause 6.2.3).

> NOTE: 	An alternative diagram could include also the UNDETERMINED state.

## 6.5 Summary

The usage of the terms elaborated in clauses 5.3 and 5.4, and in the present clause, can be summarized as:

Requested A1 policy: the policy requested to be created/updated in an A1 policy creation/update request message

Requested scope: the scope in a requested A1 policy

> NOTE 1:	The requested scope may or may not be applicable
Valid A1 policy: a requested A1 policy that validates against the policy schema used by the Near-RT RIC

> NOTE 2:	The Non-RT RIC formulates the A1 policy based on the policy schema before requesting the A1 policy to be created/updated, and the Near-RT RIC will validate the A1 policy against the policy schema when receiving the A1 policy creation/update request. To say the A1 policy validates against the policy schema implies a validation would be successful whenever it is performed and hence the A1 policy is considered as valid.
Accepted A1 policy: a requested A1 policy accepted to be created based on an A1 policy creation/update request message

> NOTE 3:	Term is used instead of saying "created policy" to avoid confusing the outcome of the creation process with the long-term state of the A1 policy representing an enforcement activity
> NOTE 4:	To be acceptable, the requested A1 policy has to be a valid A1 policy and Near-RT RIC may also reject a requested policy that it considers to be in conflict with an existing A1 policy.
Existing A1 policy: an A1 policy created/updated after accepting an A1 policy creation/update request message that has not yet been deleted

> NOTE 5:	Term is used instead of saying "created policy" to avoid confusing the long-term state representing an enforcement activity with the outcome of the creation process
Rejected A1 policy: an A1 policy not accepted to be created/updated based on an A1 policy creation/update request message

> NOTE 6:	The reject reason contained in the A1 policy creation/update response message could be used by the A1-P Consumer to reformulate the requested A1 policy and can currently indicate if the requested A1 policy was considered as “invalid” or "conflicting", and could in future cover other reasons such as e.g. "inapplicable", "unachievable" etc
Applicability: expresses if enforcement of a valid A1 policy can be based on the configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities and the supported objective attributes and their supported value ranges

- An A1 policy would be
- "fully applicable" (or simply " applicable ") in case it has a fully applicable scope, the objectives statement is fully applicable, and the resources statement is fully applicable;
- "not applicable" in case it has a not applicable scope, or the objectives statement is not applicable, or no part of the resources statement is applicable; and
- "partly applicable" otherwise
and the objectives statement would be

- "fully applicable" in case all objectives, and the combinations of them, are supported and all attribute values are reasonable;
- "not applicable" in case none of the objectives is supported or none of the attribute values are reasonable; and
- "partly applicable" otherwise.
Applicable scope: the part of the requested scope covered by the configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities

- a "fully applicable scope" is completely covered;
- a "partly applicable scope" is partly covered; and
- a "not applicable scope" has no part covered.
> NOTE 7:	The applicable scope may or may not be enforceable
Enforceable scope: the part of the applicable scope covered by the available A1 policy enforcement capabilities

- a "fully enforceable scope" is completely covered;
- a "partly enforceable scope" is partly covered; and
- a "not enforceable scope" has no part is covered.
Enforceability: expresses if an applicable A1 policy can be enforced based on the available A1 policy enforcement capabilities

- An A1 policy would be
- "fully enforceable" (or simply "enforceable") in case it has a fully enforceable scope, the objectives statement is fully applicable, and the cells in the resources statement are available;
- "not enforceable" in case it has a not enforceable scope, or the objectives statement is not applicable, or no cell in the resources statement is available; and
- "partly enforceable" otherwise.
Enforcement: the activity and actions that strive to achieve the objectives of an existing A1 policy

> NOTE 8:	The A1 interface does not support activation/de-activation of the enforcement of existing A1 policies, an existing A1 policy is always in enforcement
Partial enforcement: the activity and actions that strive to achieve the objectives of an existing A1 policy using a subset of the required A1 policy enforcement capabilities (i.e. enforcement of an A1 policy that is only partly enforceable).

Enforcement status: the status of the enforcement activity as expressed by the enforceStatus attribute

- If the enforceStatus is ENFORCED, enforcement actions are taken for all parts of the A1 policy and the A1 policy is referred to as "fully enforced" (or simply "enforced");
- If the enforceStatus is PARTIALLY_ENFORCED, enforcement actions are taken for some parts of the A1 policy and the A1 policy is referred to as "partially enforced"; and
- If the enforceStatus is NOT_ENFORCED, the A1 policy is referred to as "not enforced".
> NOTE 9:	This describes enforcement status with a dedicated attribute value for handling partiality.
Partial success: the outcome of a create policy transaction where the A1 policy is partially enforced.

# 7 Conclusions and recommendations

## 7.1 General

Updating the A1 interface specification for support of partiality aspects would imply update of several clauses in several of the specifications, and an update of the A1 policy management service (A1-P) may imply a non-backward compatible change.

Clause 7.2 provides a summary of major findings of the study in the present document that could be considered for inclusion in an updated A1 interface specification. Clause 7.3 then provides further details on inclusion of partiality in the definition and interpretation of policy enforcement status.

Clause 7.4 summarizes identified issues and items that were not further considered in the present study.

Clause 7.5 provides the high-level recommendations from the study.

## 7.2 Common aspects

### 7.2.1 Terms

#### 7.2.1.1 General

The partiality discussion in the present document relies on fundamental definitions related to A1 policy enforcement capabilities and to how (the scope, objectives, and resources of) an A1 policy is considered as applicable and enforceable. The reasoning of how partiality can be considered during policy creation and enforcement introduced refined terms for referring to an A1 policy and enforcement as an activity.

The following clause summarizes where the definitions are made.

#### 7.2.1.2 Capabilities

The configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities and the available A1 policy enforcement capabilities defined as in clause 5.3.2 and 6.2.2.

The required A1 policy enforcement capabilities and the available A1 policy enforcement capabilities as discussed in clause 6.1.

#### 7.2.1.3 Abilities

Scope applicability as defined in 6.2.2.

Objectives applicability as defined in 5.3.4 and 6.2.1.

Resources applicability as defined in clause 5.3.5.

Policy applicability and enforceability as defined in clauses 5.4.3 and 6.2.

#### 7.2.1.4 Scopes and policies

Requested/Valid/Accepted/Rejected/Existing A1 policy, and Requested/Applicable/Enforceable scope, as summarized  in clause 6.5.

#### 7.2.1.5 Enforcement

Enforcement as described in clause 5.4.1 and partial enforcement as defined in clause 6.1.

### 7.2.2 Constraints and status

#### 7.2.2.1 General

The definition of policy type constraints and policy type status in clause 6.3.2 would provide detailed information for Non-RT RIC related to what it could expect if a requested A1 policy was formulated in certain ways and in certain contexts so that

- if Non-RT RIC was aware of the policy type specific constraints containing configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities, it would be able to formulate a requested A1 policy with an applicable scope;
- if Non-RT RIC was aware of the policy type specific supported attributes and value ranges, it would be able to formulate a requested A1 policy with applicable objectives;
- if Non-RT RIC was aware of the policy type specific constraints containing available A1 policy enforcement capabilities, it would be able to formulate a requested A1 policy with enforceable scope; and
- if Non-RT RIC was aware of the policy type status, it would be able to realize when the constraints change and reflect status that provides guidance regarding if partial enforcement could be expected for A1 policies.

#### 7.2.2.2 Procedures

Policy type constraints can be provided in the response of a Query policy type constraints operations, or in the response to the Query policy type operation, as discussed in clause 6.3.2.2.

Policy type status can be provided in the response of a Query policy type status operation, or by a Notify policy type status operation, as discussed in clause 6.3.2.5.

#### 7.2.2.3 Schema

Constraints schema and policy type status schema would be part of policy type definitions (together with policy schema and status schema), see clause 6.3.2.

### 7.2.3 Creation/update requests

#### 7.2.3.1 General

The design patterns for how A1 policies can be created and updated using HTTP PUT operations, and the HTTP status codes related to evaluations of policy creation requests, can be applied to support partiality aspects. In addition, the message content could include detailed information that could correspond to information provided in other operations.

#### 7.2.3.2 Create/update policy operations

The Create single policy operations and Update single policy operations are based on HTTP PUT where the requested A1 policy is provided in the message content.

If the requested A1 policy is not considered as applicable, the PUT request could be rejected with a 501 error, and if the requested A1 policy is not considered as enforceable, the PUT request could be rejected with a 503 error, as discussed in clause 5.5.4.2.

> NOTE:	The usage of the error codes 501 and 503 is already allowed, see A1AP [i.3], clause 6.2.7.3, although their relation to A1 policy enforcement capabilities is not covered by the current A1 specification.
The reject message could contain any detailed information on the reject reasons but need not if the corresponding information is provided as policy type constraints and/or status.

#### 7.2.3.3 Design patterns

Evaluation of policy creation requests can be based on only evaluation of applicability/enforceability but can also be based on the status after start of enforcement (when actions are taken for the parts of the policy) as described in clauses 5.5.2 and 5.5.3. Clause 5.5.5 provides potential clarifications to the current A1 specification related to this while clause 6.3.4 elaborates further on how policy creation transactions could be impacted by partiality (depending on cases as described in clause 7.3).

#### 7.2.3.4 Assumptions and expectations

Non-RT RIC can assume that an A1 policy is enforced until policy status is queried or a change in enforcement status is notified while Near-RT RIC can assign any value of enforceStatus when creating the A1 policy before enforcement activity starts and the actual status may be notified. To avoid risk for situations where the assumptions may leave Non-RT RIC unaware of the actual status of the enforcement activity, the proposed clarification (see clause 5.5.5) is that the Non-RT RIC should query the policy status after receiving the 201 Created as that enables understanding of the policy status in both cases when a policy status notification is either received or not.

### 7.2.4 Status and notifications

The change reason attributes values in the policy status notifications can reflect partiality information. In addition, the message content could include detailed status information that could correspond to information provided in other operations.

Potential updates of enforceReason attributes values are discussed in clause 6.2.4 and detailed policy status information in clause 6.2.5. Clause 5.5.5 provides potential clarifications to the current A1 specification related to this while clause 6.3.5 elaborates further on how policy creation transactions could be impacted by partiality (depending on cases as described in clause 7.3).

## 7.3 Defining and interpreting enforceStatus

### 7.3.1 General

The definitions referred to in clause 7.2 can be applied to support partiality irrespective of if/how the enforceStatus attribute values are defined and interpreted as they reflect policy type and enforcement capability related properties rather than properties of any individual A1 policy.

The enforcement status is specific for an individual A1 policy. The detailed change information of the policy status and the policy type status identified in the present document refers to the same attributes as those related to the A1 policy enforcement capabilities of the A1 policy type.

### 7.3.2 Lifecycle management

The current description of A1 policy lifecycle management in A1GAP [i.1], clause 5.1.3, would be impacted by clarifications/updates related to the policy creation transactions (see clause 7.2.3) and to definitions/interpretations of policy enforcement status.

> NOTE:	The present document does not consider any changes to the principle that Non-RT RIC is the lifecycle management owner of A1 polices while Near-RT RIC determines the status of the A1 policy enforcement activities for existing policies.

### 7.3.3 Reinterpreting the current case

Case 0 introduced in clause 6.2.3 corresponds to the current A1 specification. By introducing supporting information as per clause 7.2, the current definitions of the enforceStatus attributes values can be kept if interpretations (and Non-RT RIC assumptions) are clarified as:

- if requested A1 policy is not applicable (i.e. it is not "fully applicable"), the policy creation request can be rejected using the 501 error code;
- if requested A1 policy is not enforceable (i.e. it is "fully enforceable" or "partly enforceable"), the policy creation request can be rejected using the 503 error code;
- if the requested A1 policy is accepted using the 201 response code, Non-RT RIC can assume Near-RT RIC considers it as enforceable and will start an enforcement activity.
Non-RT RIC would be expected to query policy status (when needed) to get guidance on if observable impact of the A1 policy can be expected, and if to consider keeping/updating/deleting the A1 policy. The enforceReason attribute values, and any detailed policy status information, would enable Near-RT RIC to express detailed partiality information. Policy status notifications could indicate changes in the detailed policy status information as well as changes in enforceStatus attribute value.

The policy type constraints and status would provide guidance to Non-RT RIC regarding what can be an expected outcome of a policy creation transaction. The policy type status would indicate if full or partial enforcement could be expected based on configured A1 policy enforcement capabilities being completely or partly available, and the policy type constraints would provide detailed information on available A1 policy enforcement capabilities.

> NOTE:	Even if the same attributes (providing information on availability of A1 policy enforcement capabilities) are used to indicate status of policy types as to indicate status of an individual policy, the policy type status does not reflect status of an individual policy.

### 7.3.4 New alternative definitions

#### 7.3.4.1 Case 1

Case 1 introduced in clause 6.2.3 implies stricter expectations, compared to case 0 described in clause 7.3.2, regarding Near-RT RIC behaviour and implies Non-RT RIC can assume:

- enforceStatus = ENFORCED means enforcement actions are taken to enforce all parts of the A1 policy; and
- enforceStatus = NOT_ENFORCED means enforcement actions are taken to enforce some parts, or no part, of the A1 policy.
It also implies stricter relations between the enforceStatus and enforceReason values as described in 6.3.5.3.1.

#### 7.3.4.2 Case 2

Case 2 introduced in clause 6.2.3 implies stricter expectations, compared to case 0 described in clause 7.3.2, regarding Near-RT RIC behaviour and implies Non-RT RIC can assume:

- enforceStatus = ENFORCED means enforcement actions are taken to enforce all parts, or some parts, of the A1 policy; and
- enforceStatus = NOT_ENFORCED means enforcement actions are taken to enforce no part, of the A1 policy.
It also implies stricter relations between the enforceStatus and enforceReason values as described in 6.3.5.3.1.

#### 7.3.4.3 Case 3

Case 3 introduced in clause 6.2.3 introduces an additional attribute value specifically for partial enforcement and implies stricter expectations, compared to case 0 described in clause 7.3.2, regarding Near-RT RIC behaviour and implies Non-RT RIC can assume:

- enforceStatus = ENFORCED means enforcement actions are taken to enforce all parts of the A1 policy;
- enforceStatus = PARTIALLY_ENFORCED means enforcement actions are taken to enforce some parts of the A1 policy; and
- enforceStatus = NOT_ENFORCED means enforcement actions are taken to enforce  no part of the A1 policy.
It also implies stricter relations between the enforceStatus and enforceReason values as described in 6.3.5.3.1 and an update to the lifecycle management state transition diagram.

## 7.4 Inconclusive items

### 7.4.1 Effect of enforcement

The present document does not cover aspects related to feasible of being aware of the connected state of all targeted UEs, and if there would be any reason to notify such changes, as discussed in clause 5.4.2.

### 7.4.2 ACID properties for partiality

The present document does not cover any impact on how ACID properties are defined and analysed, after introduction of partiality-related definitions and features, as discussed in clause 5.5.4.

### 7.4.3 Partial content

Usage of the HTTP status code 206 Partial Content was not considered in the present study, as noted in clause 6.3.4.3, since it would imply a significant change to the principles for A1 policy lifecycle management.

## 7.5 Recommendations

### 7.5.1 General

If updates to the A1 interface specification for support of partiality aspects are to be done, they should be based on a work item that enables coordination and alignment of CRs that could be approved for the same O-RAN train release and ensure there is only a minimum number of non-backward compatible API changes.

In such work item, it should be described what approaches and options identified in the present document that should be the basis for the specification update in case the scope is larger than the specific recommendations in clause 7.5.2.

### 7.5.2 Specific

#### 7.5.2.1 Capabilities and abilities

The A1 specification should define terms related to applicability, enforceability, and A1 policy enforcement capabilities to enable inclusion of partiality aspects.

See further clauses 7.2.1.2 and 7.2.1.3.

#### 7.5.2.2 Rejection of not applicable policy

The A1 specification should define usage of the 501 Not Implemented error code for the case when a policy creation request is rejected due to that the requested A1 policy is not considered as "fully applicable".

See further clauses 7.2.3.2 and 7.3.3.

#### 7.5.2.3 Rejection of not enforceable policy

The A1 specification should define usage of the 503 Service Unavailable error code for the case when a policy creation request is rejected due to that the requested A1 policy is considered as "not enforceable".

See further clauses 7.2.3.2 and 7.3.3.

#### 7.5.2.4 enforceReason attribute values

The A1 specification should be updated with enforceReason attribute values SCOPE_NOT_ENFORCEABLE and SCOPE_PARTLY_ENFORCEABLE, and the current values for SCOPE_NOT_APPLICABLE should be clarified to enable status change notification related to loss of A1 policy enforcement capabilities.

The A1 specification should be updated with enforceReason attribute values SCOPE_APPLICABLE and SCOPE_ENFORCEABLE to enable status change notification related to recovery of A1 policy enforcement capabilities.

See further clause 7.2.4.

#### 7.5.2.5 Query policy status

The A1 specification should recommend Non-RT RIC to query policy status when receiving a 201 Created after making a policy creation request to avoid taking actions on assumptions related to Near-RT RIC behaviour.

See further clause 7.2.3.4.

#### 7.5.2.6 Policy type status

The A1 specification should be updated with definitions of policy type status with attribute values that enable indication of that the policy enforcement functionality is OPERABLE (i.e. all the configured A1 enforcement capabilities are available), PART_OPERABLE (i.e. some of the configured A1 enforcement capabilities are available), or INOPERABLE (i.e. none of the configured A1 enforcement capabilities are available).

See further clauses 7.2.2.1, 7.2.2.2, and 7.3.3.

#### 7.5.2.7 Policy type constraints

The A1 specification should be updated with definitions for policy type constraints that enable indication of which configured A1 enforcement capabilities that are available.

See further clauses 7.2.2.1, 7.2.2.2, and 7.3.3.


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG2.TR.DECSMO-Impact-R004-v01.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG2.TR.DECSMO-Impact-R004- O-RAN Work Group 2"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms apply: A1-EI: A1 Enrichment Information A1-P: A1 Policy A1-ML: A1 Model management CM: Configuration management FM: Fault management FOCOM: Federated O-Cloud Orchestration and Management NFO: Network Functions Orchestration Non-RT RIC: Non-Real Time RIC PM: Performance management SMO: Service Management and Orchestration SMOS: SMO service

## 3.2 Symbols
Void.

## 3.3 Abbreviations
Void.

# 4 Impact analysis of Decoupled SMO

## 4.1 WG2 specifications impact analysis

### 4.1.1 Non-RT RIC architecture related aspects

#### 4.1.1.1 Overview and highlights
The architecture defined in Non-RT RIC Architecture specification [i.3] provide a functional description of Non-RT RIC and SMO, where reference to SMO functions is given in support of the services exposed over the two open interfaces, i.e. R1 and A1.

#### 4.1.1.2 Impact analysis

##### 4.1.1.2.1 Introduction
In the Decoupled SMO FWID, the standardization of a Service Based Architecture for SMO, as defined in OAD [i.2] aims at ensuring the interoperability between components based on the definition of services instead of functions and interfaces. The new approach, however, does neither change the role of the Non-RT RIC nor introduce non-backward compatibility issues over R1 and A1, being the functions defined in the current Non-RT RIC Architecture specification [i.3] are one-to-one related to the corresponding services, which can now be referred to a SMOS in OAD [i.2]. Both Decoupled SMO Architecture TR [i.1] and OAD [i.2] state that grouping of SMOS producers in one SMOF is not subject to specification. Moreover, current Non-RT RIC architecture, shows O1, O2 and Open FH M-Plane interface terminations as distinct functions from the functions providing services to Non-RT RIC. With the introduction Decoupled SMO architecture, as described in OAD [i.2] the O1/Open FH M-Plane and O2 interface terminate to RAN NF OAM and NFO/FOCOM SMOS producers, respectively. Hence, Figure 6.1-1 and the definitions of interface terminations should be revised accordingly.

##### 4.1.1.2.2 Conclusions
Based on the above analysis, the following can be concluded:
- Non-RT RIC architecture remains consistent with the overarching Decoupled SMO architecture, improving
interoperability and enabling a modular approach to service management.
- SMOS (SMO Services) concept should be integrated into the Non-RT RIC Architecture specification [i.3] to ensure it
aligns with the Service-Based Architecture (SBA) principles of the Decoupled SMO framework.
- Description of O1/Open FH M-Plane and O2 interfaces and the related services should be adapted to the align with the
Decoupled SMO architecture and principles, e.g. by removing the interface termination boxes and refer to the corresponding SMOS producers (RAN NF OAM and NFO/FOCOM).

### 4.1.2 A1 related aspects

#### 4.1.2.1 Overview and highlights
In the Non-RT RIC Architecture specification [i.3], A1 termination function which is anchored function in the Non-RT RIC reference architecture is defined as, A1 termination: It enables the Non-RT RIC framework and the Near-RT RIC to exchange messages over the A1 interface. However, In the Decoupled SMO Architecture TR [i.1] A1 termination function is neither mentioned nor shown in Fig 6.2.1-1. It's not clear then whether it is consistent with the Non-RT RIC Architecture.

#### 4.1.2.2 Impact analysis

##### 4.1.2.2.1 Introduction
A1 Policy, A1 Enrichment Information and A1-ML Model management (A1-P, A1-EI, A1-ML) services are critical for facilitating interaction between the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework and Near-RT RIC through the A1 interface. The management of policies, enrichment information and ML model ensures that near real-time decisions made at the Near-RT RIC are guided or assisted by the management and orchestration services in the SMO/Non-RT RIC. However, there is currently ambiguity about whether producers of these services should be anchored within the Non-RT RIC or be non-anchored (i.e. flexibly deployable as part of the SMO framework or the NonRT RIC framework). The introduction of A1 related SMOSs with the exposure of services offered by a function consuming A1 interface services, i.e. A1-P, A1-EI and A1-ML in A1GAP [i.4], does not conflict with the A1 interface specifications and with the role of Non- RT RIC, There is however an inconsistency related to the concept of “A1 termination" anchoring, introduced in Non-RT RIC Architecture specification [i.3]. As for SMOS related to other external SMO interfaces, i.e. O1 and O2, it would be straightforward to assume that the A1- related SMOS producer and the termination of A1 interface are tightly coupled. The alternative, i.e. introducing a functional separation between the A1 related SMOS producer and the A1 interface termination, would require the definition of an additional interface or reference point between these to ensure interoperability between the two functions. Before the introduction of SMOS concept, the only consumers of A1 related services were the rApps. With the introduction of other SMOS, e.g. Service Assurance SMOS, also other SMOS producer may consume A1 related services SMOS to e.g. provide policies to Near RT RIC. For this reason, it seems appropriate to expose A1 related services as individual SMOS, as defined in OAD [i.2] Following the analysis given above, in order to confirm the assumption that A1 related functions are not anchored to the Non- RT RIC, it is necessary to revise the concept of A1 termination, possibly aligning to other SMO interfaces like O1 and O2, for example avoiding the term “A1 termination function” and use “A1 interface" or “A1 services consumer/producer” instead.

##### 4.1.2.2.2 Conclusions
Based on the above analysis, the following can be concluded:
- Update the descriptions of “A1 termination” in Non-RT RIC Architecture specification [i.3], remove the box “A1
termination" from the Non-RT RIC architecture and terminate the A1 interface into the “A1 related functions”. Remove the reference to "A1 termination" from clause 8.1 and replace the remaining two occurrences of "A1 termination" with "A1 interface. This will ensure consistency between the concepts “A1 related SMOS” given in OAD and the “A1 related functions” described in Non-RT RIC Architecture TS.

### 4.1.3 R1 related aspects

#### 4.1.3.1 Overview and highlights
The standardization of a Service Based Architecture for SMO, as defined in OAD [i.2] aims at ensuring the interoperability between components based on the definition of services. Several SMOS were introduced in OAD [i.2] clause 5.3.1.2.1 to support a service-based architecture in SMO. In particular, the scope of SME and DME SMOS have been defined to support service and data exposure to both internal and external SMOS consumers: SME SMOS supports the exposure of other SMOSs, to both internal and external SMOS consumers. DME SMOS supports the exposure of data produced by SMOS Producers, to both internal and external SMOS consumers. The R1 interface related specifications refer to the services exposed as “R1 services”, since the scope is the service exposure over R1 interface. The relationship between R1 services, SMOS and R1 interface has been provided in OAD [i.2]: R1 Services: The SMOS capabilities available for consumption by rApps, and the capabilities produced by rApps, that are accessible via the R1 interface

#### 4.1.3.2 Impact Analysis

##### 4.1.3.2.1 R1 Interface
The following paragraphs describe the R1 interface (Non-RT RIC Architecture specification [i.3] clause 6.2): The R1 interface is a service-based interface via which the R1 services can be consumed and produced. The R1 termination enables the R1 Service Producers and R1 Service Consumers to exchange messages via the R1 interface. The R1 termination enables the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework and the rApps to exchange messages via the R1 interface, assuming that the R1 service APIs and the rApps are registered with the R1 service management and exposure functions. The R1 interface is clearly identified between SMO/Non-RT RIC Framework and the rApps. This is not changed by the Decoupled SMO Architecture.

##### 4.1.3.2.2 R1 services
The following paragraphs describe “R1 services” concepts. From Non-RT RIC Architecture specification [i.3] clause 6.2: The R1 services are a collection of services produced and consumed by logical functions in the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework or by rApps. The invoker of an R1 service is referred to as R1 Service Consumer and the provider of an R1 service is referred to as R1 Service Producer. R1 Service Consumers can be rApps and/or SMO/Non-RT RIC framework functions. Further, R1 Service Producers can be rApps and/or SMO/Non-RT RIC framework functions. An rApp as well as a SMO/Non-RT RIC framework function can produce zero or more R1 Services, likewise an rApp as well as a SMO/Non-RT RIC framework function can consume zero or more R1 Services. From Non-RT RIC Architecture specification [i.3] clause 7.1: The set of R1 services which can be accessed via the R1 interface includes (but is not limited to):
- Service management and exposure services, which include service registration and service discovery services,
authentication services, authorization services and communication support services. The service management and exposure services support extensibility of the set of R1 services.
- Data management and exposure services, which deliver data created or collected by Data Producers to Data
Consumers according to their needs.
- A1-related services, which provide access to functionality related to A1.
- AI/ML workflow services, which provide access to AI and ML workflow.
- RAN OAM-related services, which provide access to RAN OAM functionality related to the O1 and open
fronthaul M-plane interfaces, and to the OAM functionality related to RAN-specific network slicing in the SMO framework.
- O2-related services, which provide access to functionality related to O2.
- rApp management services, which provide functionality for managing rApps.
- TE&IV-related services, which provide access to topology and inventory data.

##### 4.1.3.2.3 Conclusions
From the above, the following considerations can be derived:
- R1 services and SMOSs listed in OAD [i.2] clause 5.3.1.2.1 and in Non-RT RIC Architecture specification
- SMOSs capabilities can be consumed/produced by rApps via R1 interface
- the introduction of Decoupled SMO architecture does not conflict with the R1 interface principles listed in
R1GAP [i.5] clause 4.2
- The R1AP [i.6] defines a service-based interface. The procedures can be extended to align with the Decoupled
SMO principles without major changes to the APIs.

### 4.1.4 Use cases and requirement related aspects

#### 4.1.4.1 Overview and highlights
WG2 Use cases and requirements so far assume a functional architecture for SMO. The Decoupled SMO feature relies on a Service Based Architecture for SMO and introduces the concepts of SMOS producers/consumers.

#### 4.1.4.2 Impact analysis

##### 4.1.4.2.1 Use cases
Some of the use cases in UCR [i.8] describe the procedures involving SMO components as considering the functional architecture of SMO. The introduction of a service-based architecture for SMO, implies that the SMO functional entities, and the related blocks in the diagrams, should be analysed and aligned to the corresponding SMO service producers/consumers (as an example, ‘RAN NF OAM SMOS producer’ instead of ‘Collection & Control’ in Fig. 4.1.3.1-1).

##### 4.1.4.2.2 Requirements
Clause 5 of UCR [i.8] specify Non-RT RIC, A1 and R1 functional and non-functional requirements. Terminology may need a revision to align to Decoupled SMO architectural principles and definitions.

##### 4.1.4.2.3 Conclusions
UCR [i.8] should be analysed and aligned to comply with Decoupled SMO Architectural principles.

## 4.2 Recommendations
The following actions are recommended to ensure alignment of WG2 specifications for the introduction of the Decoupled SMO Architecture:
- Introduce SMOS (SMO Services) concept into the Non-RT RIC Architecture specification [i.3] to ensure it aligns with
the Service-Based Architecture (SBA) principles of the Decoupled SMO framework and the definition of R1 services.
- Analyze and align description of O1/Open FH M-Plane and O2 interfaces and the related services in Non-RT RIC
Architecture specification [i.3] to comply with Decoupled SMO Architectural principles, e.g. by removing the interface termination boxes and refer to the corresponding SMOS producers (RAN NF OAM and NFO/FOCOM).
- Remove the box “A1 termination" from the Non-RT RIC architecture and terminate the A1 interface into the “A1 related
functions”.
- Remove the reference to "A1 termination" from clause 8.1 of Non-RT RIC Architecture specification [i.3] and replace
the remaining two occurrences of "A1 termination" with "A1 interface.
- Analyse and align UCR [i.8] to comply with Decoupled SMO Architectural principles.


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG2.TR.PlcCnfMtgt-R004-v01.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG2.TR.PlcCnfMtgt-R004-v01.00"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms

For the purposes of the present document, the following terms apply:

E2SM: E2 Service Model

Near-RT RIC: Near-Real Time RIC

Non-RT RIC: Non-Real Time RIC

## 3.2 Symbols

Void

## 3.3 Abbreviations

For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:

PAET: A1 policy applicable entity type

# 4 Overview

## 4.1 Background

Within O-RAN, A1 Policies and E2SMs [i.5] IE/Objects enable the intelligent guidance of the RAN towards better fulfilment of the RAN Intent. Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC, each has its own context that need to be broken down into more detailed ones and to be passed to next lower layer as shown in Figure 4.1-1.

> NOTE:	The RAN intent is outside the scope of the A1 interface.
The purpose of the A1 policies is to guide the RAN towards the overall goal expressed in RAN intent in A1GAP [i.1]. As the service consumer of A1 policy management services, rApps can send A1 policies based on their own business purpose, and A1 policy conflict may happen there. Non-RT-RIC-ARCH [i.2] has defined conflict mitigation for A1 policies as follows: If more than one policy generation rApps set contradicting A1 policy statements to the same or overlapping policy scope identifiers, A1 policy function decides to reject the creation/modification request of one or more A1 policies or to temporarily suspend the enforcement of one or more A1 policies.

## 4.2 Concept

### 4.2.1 A1 policy conflict

#### 4.2.1.1 Definition

A1 policy conflict: A situation where it is not feasible for a Near-RT RIC function, and hence the RAN to apply the guidance provided by a set of two or more A1 policies to concurrently achieve the policy objectives and/or to satisfy the conditions for policy resource usage.

#### 4.2.1.2 General description

A1 policy conflict would be generally recognized in two ways; “actual conflict” and “potential conflict”. The actual A1 policy conflict would be detected and handled for created A1 policies at a Near-RT RIC while the potential A1 policy conflict would be predicted and mitigated for requested A1 policies over R1 interface at the Non-RT RIC before a new A1 policy is requested to be created or an existing policy at a Near-RT RIC is requested to be updated over A1 interface.

The potential A1 policy conflict would be predicted by analysing contents of a requested policy and existing policies to be concurrently enforced at a Near-RT RIC, and mitigated to avoid the policy conflict with possible approaches of resolutions.

This TR will study and describe ways to predict and mitigate potential A1 policy conflicts in Non-RT RIC, and this involves further study of A1 policy conflict mitigation functionality of A1 policy functions as specified in Non-RT-RIC-ARCH [i.2], clause 8.4.1.

> NOTE:	The potential A1 policy conflict is referred to as the A1 policy conflict or just the policy conflict, and the usage of term “predict” for policy conflict does not preclude the usage of term “detect” for policy conflict if not necessary to distinguish between them in the Technical Report.

# 5 Use cases

## 5.1 Use case #1 “reserve policy” vs. “release policy”

### 5.1.1 Description

Policies of different A1 policy types currently defined in A1TD [i.4], clause 7.2 could be conflicting with policy objectives and policy resources. Policies of different types with policy objectives (possibly with policy resources) such as QoS/QoE target, QoS/QoE optimization with resource directive, UE level target, Slice SLA target, Load balancing, Energy savings could be conflicting to achieve their objectives concurrently. Policies of the TSP type with policy resources such as Traffic steering preferences could be conflicting to satisfy the conditions for resource usage for the policy concurrently.

It is assumed that one of ways to categorize policy types is into mutually exclusive groups in terms of effect on RAN resource: “reserve policy” group and “release policy” group. The “reserve policy” group is for guaranteeing the service quality possibly by reserving resources, and the “release policy” group is for offloading cells and hence releasing the reserved resources. A general grouping of A1 policy types with clause numbers of A1TD [i.4], clause 7 into these groups is illustrated in Figure 5.1.1-1.

> NOTE 1:	A Traffic steering preferences policy is allowed to have both a cell list of SHALL/PREFER preference and a cell list of AVOID/FORBID preference. In this case the policy would have both characteristics of reserve policy and release policy groups with each specified scope.
> NOTE 2:	A Load balancing policy would have characteristic of reserve policy with traffic increase effect on specified cells and of release policy with traffic decrease effect on other specified cells in the middle of fulfilling the policy. At the stable condition brought by the LB policy there remains characteristic of reserve policy for both specified cells.
> NOTE 3:	An Energy savings policy would imply the coordination with appropriate traffic steering not to impair the user experience, and a policy without esObjectives would not be conflicting with reserve policy group resulting in best effort behaviour for energy savings. With esResource statement along with AVOID/FORBID, the possible energy saving schemes would be more strictly limited for specified cells, but it leaves to the Near-RT RIC whether it can perform the energy saving scheme (e.g. ASM) so as not to give impact on traffic or cell coverage as described in AITD [i.4] clause 6.3.4.5.
Co-existence of these different groups of A1 policies in a Near-RT RIC would have a conflicting situation for achieving their objectives.

### 5.1.2 Some representative scenarios

Service-guaranteed vs. Network energy saving without EsResource.

Service-guaranteed policies (QoS/QoE/UE-level/Slice_SLA) guide to reserve RAN resources while NES without EsResource policies to release the same reserved RAN resources to expand its potential power-off duration.

Load balancing vs. Traffic steering preference with AVOID/FORBID

LB policies guide to reserve RAN resources at the target cells listed in the LbResources for distributing traffic load while TS preference policies to release the same reserved RAN resources at the target cells listed in the TspResources with AVOID/FORBID.

Traffic steering preference with SHALL/PREFER vs. Network energy saving without EsResource.

TS preference policies guide to reserve RAN resources at the target cells listed in the TspResources with SHALL/PREFER while NES without EsResource policies to release the same reserved RAN resources.

## 5.2 Use case #2 Policy objectives not uniquely identified.

### 5.2.1 Description

Entities in subset/intersection set relation of two or more different policies scopes in a Near-RT RIC would have a conflicting situation for identifying an unique policy objectives.

### 5.2.2 Some representative scenarios

UE-level vs. Slice SLA policies

In case that UE-level policy (ex. UL/DL RAN UE Throughput) and Slice SLA policy (ex. Max UL/DL Throughput per UE) specify the same entity in their scopes, it’s not clear which of policies to be applied for that entity as illustrated in Figure 5.2.1-1.

QoS target vs. Slice SLA policies

In case that QoS target policy (ex. UL/DL Guaranteed Flow Bit Rate) specifies a QoS flow in its scope that is impacted by a Slice SLA policy (ex. Max UL/DL Throughput per UE), it’s not clear which of policies to be applied for the QoS flow as illustrated in Figure 5.2.1-2.

## 5.3 Use case #3 Policy resources preference not uniquely identified.

### 5.3.1 Description

Especially for the Traffic steering policy, UEs which are commonly specified with different “SHALL” preferences by different Traffic steering policies would have a conflicting situation for identifying a unique policy resources preference.

### 5.3.2 Some representative scenarios

TSP policy with ueId specified vs. TSP policy with qosId specified for different “SHALL” preference cells.

In case that there are two different TS policies; one for specified UE with {SHALL}={Cell-B} for optimizing UE performance and the other for specified QoS with {SHALL}={Cell-C} for optimizing QoS performance, UEs specified by TSP policy with ueId would have a conflicting situation for identifying a policy resources preference as illustrated in Figure 5.3.2-1 if conditions shown below are met.

- There can only be a conflict in case UEs for which policy#1 is applied has a session established for the qosId covered by policy#2.
- There can only be a conflict when the UEs are connected to cells that have a neighbourhood relation to the cells in cellList of policy 1 (cell-B) and the cells in cellList of policy#2 (cell-C).
- There can only be a conflict in case the cellLists with SHALL preference are disjoint.

# 6 Detection of A1 policy conflict

## 6.1 General

The detection of A1 policy conflict would be performed when a new policy is requested to be created against a set of existing policies, or an existing policy is requested to be updated within a set of existing policies. The decision to regard a set of policies as a set of conflicting policies would be performed based on the following aspects:

to detect if there are overlapping scopes with their policy scopes or overlapping resources in their policy resources, and

to detect if A1 policies in each overlapping scope have potential conflict.

An example flowchart of A1 policy conflict detection is shown in Figure 6.1-1.

## 6.2 Detection of overlaps with policy scope and policy resource

Some examples of the overlapping scope with two policy scopes are illustrated in Figure 4.2.2.1-2. An example on top of the referred figure is a case of subset/superset relation with their policy scopes where scope of policy#1 is subset of scope of policy#2 or scope of policy#2 is superset of scope of policy#1. An example on bottom of the referred figure is a case of joint sets relation with their policy scopes where both scopes of policy#1 and policy#2 are joint sets having an intersection.

### 6.2.1 A1 policy applicable entity type

The ScopeIdentifier in an A1 policy contains the attributes (ueId, groupId, sliceId, qosId, cellId, cellIdList and talList) defined in A1TD [i.4], clause 6.3.1.1, and also the policy statement contains the policy resources (TspResources, SliceSlaResources, LbResources, EsResource) defined in A1TD [i.4], clause 6.3.4 which include identification of policy resources with the attributes commonly used by the ScopeIdentifier (e.g., cellIdList in TspResource, cellIdList/taIList in SliceSlaResources, cellIdList in LbResources, cellIdList in EsResource).

Applicable entity is an entity which is derived explicitly or implicitly by policy scope, relevant granularity level of O1 observables corresponding to the policy objectives, and possibly by policy resources in a policy for identifying overlapping scope or overlapping resource between policies. An A1 policy would have at least one applicable entity type by policy scope and another applicable entity type possibly by policy resource. Based on the A1TD [i.4], clause 7.2, there are several types of A1 policy applicable entity to be derived from allowed combinations of attributes in ScopeIdentifier for policy types: explicit UE, implicit UE(s), explicit Slice and explicit Cell as shown in Table 4.2.2.2-1. As for A1 policy applicable entity derived by policy resource, there is only one type of explicit Cell.

| Policy type | ueId | groupId | sliceId | qosId | cellId | cellIdList | taiList | *1 | *2 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| QoS target | 1 | 0..1 | 0 | - | explicit UE | Per UE |  |  |  |
| QoS target | 1 | 0 | 0..1 | - | explicit UE | Per UE |  |  |  |
| QoS target | 0 | 1 | 0..1 | - | implicit UE(s) | Per UE |  |  |  |
| QoS target | 0 | 1 | 0..1 | - | implicit UE(s) | Per UE |  |  |  |
| QoS target | 0 | 1 | 0..1 | - | implicit UE(s) | Per UE |  |  |  |
| QoE target | 1 | 0 | 0..1 | - | explicit UE | Per UE |  |  |  |
| QoE target | 1 | 0 | 0..1 | - | explicit UE | Per UE |  |  |  |
| QoE target | 0 | 1 | 0..1 | - | implicit UE(s) | Per UE |  |  |  |
| QoE target | 0 | 1 | 0..1 | - | implicit UE(s) | Per UE |  |  |  |
| TSP | 1 | 0 | 0..1 | - | explicit UE | Per Cell |  |  |  |
| TSP | 0 | 1 | 0..1 | - | implicit UE(s) | Per Cell |  |  |  |
| QoS target with TSP | 1 | 0 | 0..1 | - | explicit UE | Per UE |  |  |  |
| QoS target with TSP | 0 | 1 | 0..1 | - | implicit UE(s) | Per UE |  |  |  |
| QoE target with TSP | 1 | 0 | 0..1 | - | explicit UE | Per UE |  |  |  |
| QoE target with TSP | 1 | 0 | 0..1 | - | explicit UE | Per UE |  |  |  |
| QoE target with TSP | 0 | 1 | 0..1 | - | implicit UE(s) | Per UE |  |  |  |
| UE level target | 1 | 0..1 | 0 | - | explicit UE | Per UE |  |  |  |
| UE level target | 1 | 0..1 | - | explicit UE | Per UE |  |  |  |  |
| UE level target | 1 | 0 | 0..1 | - | explicit UE | Per UE |  |  |  |
| Slice SLA target | 0 | 1 | - | explicit Slice, implicit UE(s) for "per UE" policy targets | Per Slice |  |  |  |  |
| Load balancing | 0 | 1 | - | explicit Cell | Per Cell |  |  |  |  |
| Load balancing | 0 | 1 | - | explicit Slice | Per Slice |  |  |  |  |
| Energy Savings | 0 | 1 | - | explicit Cell | Per Cell |  |  |  |  |
| Energy Savings | 0 | 1 | explicit Cell(s) | Per Cell |  |  |  |  |  |
| Energy Savings | 0 | 1 | explicit Cell(s) | Per Cell |  |  |  |  |  |
| (*1) Type of A1 policy applicable entity. (*2) Type of O1 observables. NOTE 1:	Explicit UE is an entity type for which ueId is specified and optionally other attributes of the scopeIdentifier would be specified. NOTE 2:	Implicit UE(s) is an entity type for which ueId is not specified and at least one or more other attributes of the scopeIdentifier need to be specified and the relevant granularity level of O1 observables corresponding to the policy objectives is per UE. NOTE 3:	Explicit Slice is an entity type for which sliceId is specified and both of ueId and groupId are not specified and the relevant granularity level of O1 observables corresponding to the policy objectives is per slice. NOTE 4:	Explicit Cell is an entity type for which only cellId or cellIdList or taiList of the scopeIdentifier is specified and the relevant granularity level of O1 observables corresponding to the policy objectives is per cell. NOTE 5:	Most of A1 policy applicable entities would have the corresponding O1 observables to be collected and evaluated by rApps. NOTE 6:	As for Traffic steering preference policy type, the policy preference would be per-cell and its corresponding per-cell O1 observables are collected and evaluated but the A1 policy applicable entities for TSP are assumed to be explicit UE or implicit UE(s) because actual affected controls such as handover would be applied to UEs. NOTE 7:	TaI element(s) in TaIList would be regarded as explicit cell because we assume TaI could be resolved into cellId(s) by R1 service and such resolution can be used in A1 policy management function. NOTE 8:	Implicit UE(s) in the Slice SLA target policy are a member of that slice which is connected to all possible cells under the Near-RT RIC. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |

ScopeIdentifiers of these entity types are illustrated in Figure 6.2.1-1.

These A1 policy applicable entity types (PAETs) would be used for finding an overlap in both policy scopes and policy resources and identify the types of overlaps. Set relations of policy scopes and/or policy resources with an overlap are shown below.

Identical	: The sets of applicable entities of both A1 policies are identical.

Subset	: A set of applicable entities for one non-identical A1 policy is a subset of applicable entities of the other A1 policy.

Superset	: A set of applicable entities for one non-identical A1 policy is a superset of applicable entities of the other A1 policy.

Joint sets	: There is a non-empty intersection between sets of applicable entities of two non-identical A1 policies.

And possible set relations of PAETs with an overlap for a specific cell are shown in Table 6.2.1-2.

> NOTE:	Considering a case that single instance for each of UE, Slice and Cell, there would possibly be the case of identical (ID) relation of PAETs with an overlap for a specific cell even though two PAETs are different types.
In Figure 6.2.1-2, an example of the set relation of PAET#1 with explicit Slice for Policy#1 and PAET#2 with explicit Cell for Policy#2 with an overlap is shown. In this example, three cells (C1, C2 and C3) are controlled by the Near-RT RIC, three different slices (S1, S2 and S3) per cell are configured, and two policies (one for Slice SLA policy for slice S1 and the other for Energy Savings for cell C2) are applied. As referenced from Table 6.2.1-2, within the explicit cell C2, the set of entities for PAET#1 is subset of PAET#2, and its overlap is equal to the set of entities for PAET#1.

In terms of relation with Slice and QoS, two typical cases of slice configurations are shown in Figure 6.2.1-3. One case is the application-based slice in which a slice instance is created per vertical application and multiple QoS flows related to that application are mapped into a slice. And the other case is the QoS-based slice in which a slice instance is created per a group of similar QoS characteristics. It should be noted that traffic flow with the same QoS flow ID is treated differently in the Application-based slice (e.g., App1’s voice traffic with QoS flow ID Q1 is mapped into the slice S1 while App2’s voice traffic with QoS flow ID Q1 is mapped into the slice S2.), and it is not in the QoS-based slice. In other words, a QoS flow ID could be mapped into multiple slice instances in Application-based slice while it is uniquely mapped into a single slice instance in QoS-based slice.

In Figure 6.2.1-4, an example of the set relation of PAET#1 with explicit Slice for Policy#1 and PAET#2 with implicit UE(s) for Policy#2 with an overlap is shown. In this example, three cells (C1, C2 and C3) are controlled by the Near-RT RIC, two different application-based slices (S1 and S2) per cell are configured, three QoS flows (Q1, Q2 and Q3) are handled in slices as shown in left side of Figure 6.2.1-3, and two policies (one for Slice SLA policy for Slice1 (S1) and the other for QoS target for QoS 1 (Q1)) are applied. As referenced from Table 6.2.1-2, within each of the explicit cells (C1, C2 and C3), there is an intersection of entities between the set of entities for PAET#1 and the set of entities for PAET#2, and its overlap is equal to the subset of entities for PAET#2.

In Figure 6.2.1-5, another example of the set relation of PAET#1 with explicit Slice for Policy#1 and PAET#2 with implicit UE(s) for Policy#2 with an overlap is shown. In this example, three cells (C1, C2 and C3) are controlled by the Near-RT RIC, two different QoS-based slices (S1 and S2) per cell are configured, multiple QoS flows (Qx1…Qxn, Qy1…Qyn) are uniquely handled in slices as shown in right side of Figure 6.2.1-3, and two policies (one for Slice SLA policy for slice S1 and the other for QoS target for QoS Qx1) are applied. As referenced from Table 6.2.1-2, within each of the explicit cells (C1, C2 and C3), the set of entities for PAET#1 is superset of PAET#2, and its overlap is equal to the set of entities for PAET#2.

### 6.2.2 Example criteria for finding overlaps with policy scope or policy resource.

There would be possibly four pairs of A1 policy applicable entity types (PAETs) between two policies which need to be compared and analysed for detecting overlaps. The structure of comparison and analysis of PAETs between two policies for detecting overlaps are illustrated in Figure 6.2.2-1.

In this figure, PAET1 is an A1 policy applicable entity type which is derived from attributes of scopeIdentifier, and PAET2 is an A1 applicable entity type which is derived from cell-identified attributes of policy resources. Numbers in the dotted circle in the Figure 6.2.2-1 indicate cases of comparison and analysis for a pair of PAETs: case 1 for a pair of two PAET1s, case 2 for a pair of two PAET2s, case 3 and case 4 for a pair of one PAET1 and another PAET2.]

And as Table 6.2.1-2 shows, it is suggested for simplicity that comparison and analysis for a pair of PAETs to find overlaps would be performed cell-by-cell for all cells which a Near-RT RIC controls. Set relations of an overlap would be simply identified per specific cell rather than identifying the set relation with possible multiple cells simultaneously.

In Figure 6.2.2-2, an example of the set relation of PAET#1 with explicit Slice for Policy#1 and PAET#2 with explicit Cell for Policy#2 with an overlap is shown. In this example, three cells (C1, C2 and C3) are controlled by the Near-RT RIC, three different slices (S1, S2 and S3) per cell are configured, and two policies (one for Slice SLA policy for slice S1 and the other for Energy Savings for cell C2) are applied. As shown in right side of the figure, comparison and analysis for a pair of PAETs would be performed cell-by-cell for all cells which a Near-RT RIC controls. In this example, an overlap in cell C2 would be detected while there are no overlaps in cell C1 and C3.

Criteria for finding overlaps with each pair of PAETs in set relations of policy scopes or policy resources per cell are shown.

< Case 1: a pair of two PAET1s >

Finding a pair of two PAET1s with “identical” set relation of policy scopes would be to check if values of their ScopeIdentifiers are completely the same.

Finding a pair of PAET1s with “subset/superset” relation of policy scopes would be to check if following conditions are met.

Either or both of ueId attributes in the scopeIdentifier are not specified.

One or more attributes in groupId, sliceId, qosId, cellId, cellIdList and taIList are included in the scopeIdentifier.

The policies have at least one identical attribute value in their scopeIdentifiers.

Subset in policy scope generally has more non-identical attributes specified than superset in policy scope.

Finding a pair of PAET1s with “joint sets” relation of policy scopes would be to check if following conditions are met.

Either or both of ueId attributes in the scopeIdentifier are not specified.

One or more attributes in groupId, sliceId, qosId, cellId, cellIdList and taIList are included in the scopeIdentifier.

The policies do not have any identical attribute value in their scopeIdentifiers.

There is a non-empty intersection between two non-identical policies.

< Case 2: a pair of two PAET2s >

Finding a pair of two PAET2s with “identical” set relation of policy resources would be to check if values of cell-identified attributes of policy resources are completely the same.

Finding a pair of PAET2s with “subset/superset” relation of policy resources would be to check if following conditions are met.

A non-identical and non-empty superset PAET2 has all values of cell-identified attributes of policy resources of another subset PAET2.

Finding a pair of PAET2s with “joint sets” relation of policy scopes would be to check if following conditions are met.

Non-identical and non-empty PAET2s have identical values for some but not all of the cell-identified attributes of policy resources of another PAET2.

< Case 3 and case 4: a pair of one PAET1 and another PAET2 >

Finding a pair of one PAET1 and another PAET2 with “identical” set relation of policy scope and policy resource would be to check if values of one ScopeIdentifier and another cell-identified attributes of policy resource are completely the same.

Finding a pair of one PAET1 and another PAET2 with “subset/superset” relation of policy scope and policy resource would be to check if following conditions are met.

ueId attribute in the scopeIdentifier of the PAET1 is not specified.

One or more attributes in groupId, sliceId, qosId, cellId, cellIdList and taIList of the PAET1 are included in the scopeIdentifier.

The policies have at least one identical cell-identified attribute value in the scopeIdentifier of the PAET1 and policy resource of the PAET2.

Subset PAET generally has more non-identical attributes specified than superset PAET in policy scope or policy resource.

Finding a pair of one PAET1 and another PAET2 with “joint sets” relation of policy scope and policy resource would be to check if following conditions are met.

ueId attribute in the scopeIdentifier of the PAET1 is not specified.

One or more attributes in groupId, sliceId, qosId, cellId, cellIdList and taIList of the PAET1 are included in the scopeIdentifier.

The policies do not have any identical attribute value in their scopeIdentifiers.

There is a non-empty intersection between two non-identical policies.

### 6.2.3 Examples of overlap in policy scope

Some examples of finding overlaps between two policies in policy scope are shown below. In examples of this clause, two cells (C1 and C2) are controlled by a Near-RT RIC, two application-based slices (S1 and S2) are configured in each cell, three QoS flows (Q1, Q2 and Q3) are handled in slices, and two groupIds (referred as G1, G2 in the figures) with different spId(s) or rfspIndex(es) are configured. And as explained earlier, a pair of policies is analysed and compared cell-by-cell basis for all cells which a Near-RT RIC controls.

Example1: a pair of Policy#1 with sliceId and qosId values (e.g., QoS/QoE target or TSP policy type as implicit UE(s)) and Policy#2 with sliceId value (e.g., Slice SLA target or QoE target policy type as implicit UE(s)), and their sliceId values would be identical.

Analysis and comparison for this example1 pair of policies are illustrated in Figure 6.2.3-1. For each of cell C1 and cell C2, it would be found that policy scope of Policy#1 is subset of policy scope of Policy#2 as matching the criteria of second bullet in case1 in clause 6.2.2.

The applicable entities relation with overlap (parts filled in yellow in referred figure) between two policies in example1 are illustrated in Figure 6.2.3-2. In the referred figure, there are four separated sets of applicable entities as implicit UE(s) for Policy#1 (red-line circle parts) and four separated sets of applicable entities as implicit UE(s) for Policy#2 (blue-line circle parts) which would differ based on combination of cell (C1 or C2) and DRB (G1 or G2).

In each set of applicable entities for Policy#2, there is a subset of entities for QoS flow Q1 for Policy#1, and those four subsets are overlapping sets between two policies.

Example2: a pair of Policy#1 with sliceId and qosId values (e.g., QoS/QoE target or TSP policy type as implicit UE(s)) and Policy#2 with qosId value (e.g., QoE target policy type as implicit UE(s)), and their qosId values would be identical.

Analysis and comparison for this example2 pair of policies are illustrated in Figure 6.2.3-3. For each of cell C1 and cell C2, it would be found that policy scope of Policy#1 is subset of policy scope of Policy#2 as matching the criteria of second bullet in case1 in clause 6.2.2.

The applicable entities relation with overlap (yellow part in referred figure) between two policies in example2 are illustrated in Figure 6.2.3-4. In the referred figure, there are four separated sets of applicable entities as implicit UE(s) for Policy#1 (red-line circle parts) which would differ based on combination of cell (C1 or C2) and DRB (G1 or G2), and eight separated sets of applicable entities as implicit UE(s) for Policy#2 (blue-line circle parts) which would differ based on combination of cell (C1 or C2), DRB (G1 or G2) and slice (S1 or S2).

Each of all four separated sets for Policy#1 are identical to one of eight separated sets for Policy#2, and those four subsets are overlapping sets between two policies. It is noted that all overlapping sets (yellow part in referred figure) are drawn in red-line, but they should also be drawn in blue-line because those sets are identical in both policies.

Example3: a pair of Policy#1 with groupId and qosId values (e.g., QoS target policy type as implicit UE(s)) and Policy#2 with sliceId value (e.g., Slice SLA target or QoE target policy type as implicit UE(s)).

Analysis and comparison for this example3 pair of policies are illustrated in Figure 6.2.3-5. For each of cell C1 and cell C2, it is found that policy scopes of both Policy#1 and Policy#2 are joint sets as matching the criteria of third bullet in case1 in clause 6.2.2.

The applicable entities relation with overlap (yellow part in referred figure) between two policies in example3 are illustrated in Figure 6.2.3-6. In the referred figure, there are four separated sets of applicable entities as implicit UE(s) for Policy#1 (red-line circle parts) which would differ based on combination of cell (C1 or C2) and slice (S1 or S2), and four separated sets of applicable entities as implicit UE(s) for Policy#2 (blue-line circle parts) which would differ based on combination of cell (C1 or C2) and DRB (G1 or G2).

In two sets of four separated sets of applicable entities for Policy#2 which are identified by combination of slice S1 and DRB G1, there is a subset of entities for QoS flow Q1 for Policy#1, and those two subsets out of four subsets are overlapping sets between two policies.

Example4: a pair of Policy#1 with qosId value (e.g. QoS/QoE target as implicit UE(s)) and Policy#2 with cellId value (e.g., LB or ES policy type as explicit Cell).

Analysis and comparison for this example4 pair of policies are illustrated in Figure 6.2.3-7. For cell C1, it is found that policy scope of Policy#1 is subset of policy scope of Policy#2 as matching the criteria of second bullet in case1 in clause 6.2.2. For cell C2, policy scope of Policy#2 is not applicable and there is not overlap between two policies.

The applicable entities relation with overlap (yellow part in referred figure) between two policies in example4 are illustrated in Figure 6.2.3-8. In the referred figure, there are eight separated sets of applicable entities as implicit UE(s) for Policy#1 (red-line circle parts) which would differ based on combination of cell (C1 or C2), slice (S1 or S2) and DRB (G1 or G2), and two separated sets of applicable entities as implicit UE(s) for Policy#2 (blue-line circle parts) which would differ based on DRB (G1 or G2).

In each set of two separated sets of applicable entities for Policy#2, there is two subsets of entities for QoS flow Q1 for Policy#1, and those four subsets out of eight subsets are overlapping sets between two policies.

### 6.2.4 Overlap information of A1 policy scopes and policy resources

As a result of analysing the A1 policy scopes and policy resource with a set of A1 policies for a creation/update requested policy, information regarding overlap is useful and necessary to find alternative conflict-free policies. Overlap information of A1 policy scopes and policy resources is the information which describes how policy scopes or policy resources are overlapping. Contents of the overlap information would be suggested as follows:

Detected overlap information per a requested A1 policy contains a list of followings:

PolicyId of requested A1 policy.

List of PAET pairs with per-cell-basis (cellId) overlap between requested policy and existing policy (PolicyId)

whether the overlap is between policy scopes

whether the overlap is between requested policy scope and policy resource of existing policy

whether the overlap is between requested policy resource and policy scope of existing policy

whether the overlap is between policy resources

Type of overlap (Identical/Subset/Superset/Joint set) for a specific cell with a pair of PAETs

## 6.3 Detection of conflicting situations

The detection of conflicting situations starts with finding a set of overlapping pairs of policies. Policy scope and/or policy resource of a requested policy is analysed with policy scope and/or policy resource of an existing policy to detect an overlapping pair of requested policy and existing policy. This overlap detection process is repeated over all the pairs of requested and existing policies to arrive at a set of overlapping pairs of policies. According to figure 6.1-1, once overlaps with policy scope and/or policy resource are detected among A1 policies, it would be evaluated per overlap if there are any conflicting situations with policy objectives and/or policy resources to finally recognize a set of overlapping policies as conflicting policies.

### 6.3.1 Evaluation of conflicting situation for collection of overlaps

As explained in clause 6.2, detection of overlap would be performed on a cell-by-cell basis for simplicity across all cells which a Near-RT RIC controls. And the evaluation of conflicting situation would be performed for collection of detected overlaps.

Given that multiple Near-RT RICs are connected with an SMO/Non-RT RIC, there would be groups of overlaps per Near-RT RIC which would be divided into groups per cell. An example of grouping of detected overlaps is illustrated in Figure 6.3.1-1 in which detected overlaps are indexed by p-q-r where p is the index of Near-RT RIC, q the index of cell and r the index of detected overlap uniquely for that cell, along with corresponding sets of overlapping policies.

It is noted that there would be cases that the same A1 policy belongs to different detected overlaps concurrently.

Considering the flexibility of related functional placement in the SMO/Non-RT RIC, the uniqueness of complete information regarding detected conflicts in the SMO/Non-RT RIC would be necessary. For example, in a case where SMO/Non-RT RIC FW is the producer of A1 policy conflict detection service and an rApp is the consumer of the A1 policy conflict detection service to perform conflict avoidance, information related to a detected conflict needs to be uniquely conveyed over the R1.

### 6.3.2 Approach to evaluate conflicting situation.

Possible conflicting situations have been studied in clause 5 Use cases with representative scenarios. There would be possibly various approaches to evaluate conflicting situation with use of such as the AI/ML or Digital twin, and related discussion regarding those detailed algorithm would be left for further investigation, however, here it is suggested that basic approach to evaluate conflicting situation is to check if pairs of policy scope and/or policy resource with overlap between two policies would meet those A1 policy conflict use cases; UC#1 “reserve” vs “release” policy, UC#2 objectives not uniquely identified, and UC#3 conditions not uniquely identified.

Possible A1 policy conflict use cases could be related into pairs of policy scopes and/or policy resources with a detected overlap as shown in Figure 6.3.2-1. There would possibly be four pairs of policy scopes and/or policy resources having an overlap between a requested policy and one of existing policies, and for each of detected overlaps between two policies, it would be checked if corresponding A1 policy conflict use cases would meet or not. If a requested policy has at least one conflicting situation to meet those A1 policy conflict use cases for detected overlaps, a set of detected overlapping policies would be regarded as a set of conflicting policies and the requested policy would be a member of conflicting policies.

It is noted that a pair of policy scopes and/or policy resource with a detected overlap would possibly meet multiple conflicting situations as shown in #1 and #4 pairs in Figure 6.3.2-1. An example of detected overlap (O1) in cell (C1) under the control of Near-RT RIC (N1) with a result of checking conflicting situations is illustrated in Figure 6.3.2-2. In the referred figure, a set of overlapping policies could be divided into a set of conflict-free policies and multiple sets of conflicting policies.

It is also noted that contents of A1 policies such as policy type, policy objective and policy resource would be typically used to find conflicting situations for A1 policy conflict use cases, and its details for some algorithms are left to implementation. It might be considered that available UE-related attributes (e.g. UE context) are used to recognize the actual existence of implicit UE(s) for conflicting policies (e.g., for evaluating the severity of impact of conflicting situations with such as a number of affected UEs), however, it should be noted that this condition would be intermittent and not persistent considering possible UE handovers and its time lag between collection and use of UE-related attributes in the RAN. The use of UE-related attributes for evaluation of conflicting situations would be also left to implementation.

### 6.3.3 Information of conflicting situations

As a result of evaluating conflicting situations for sets of overlapping policies, some sets of conflicting policies might be found with information of conflicting situations such as matchings of A1 policy conflict use cases. That information of conflicting situations among conflicting policies would be useful and necessary for conflict mitigations, such as providing different priorities to conflicting policies for A1 policy conflict use case #1 or aligning different values of policy objectives for A1 policy conflict use case #2.

## 6.4 A1 policy conflict detection service

A1 policy conflict detection service optionally takes A1 policies, for which conflicts need to be detected, as input and provides overlap information (clause 6.2.4) and information of conflicting situation (clause 6.3.3) for detected sets of potential conflicting policies as output, regardless of the enforcement status (ex. enforced or not_enforced) of all existing policies. The service is triggered and its output is used by the A1 policy conflict detection service consumer for the purpose of policy conflict avoidance.

The A1 policy conflict detection service producer and the A1 policy conflict detection service consumer could be either the SMO/Non-RT RIC FW or an rApp.

The use cases of the A1 policy conflict detection service with inputs from the service consumer are listed in Table 6.4-1; one is for creating a new policy against all existing policies (use case 2 in Table 6.4-1), and another is for modifying an existing policy against all existing policies (use case 3 in Table 6.4-1). The service could be utilized either before creating or updating an A1 policy to check its feasibility, or after A1 policies have already been created or updated by rApps in Near-RT RICs (use case 1A/1B in Table 6.4-1). The service should also support a method to verify its conflict detection algorithm (use case 4 in Table 6.4-1). It should be noted that A1 policy conflict detection service producer needs all information about existing A1 policies for conflict detection, however, the A1 conflict detection service consumer would typically provide one or multiple A1 policies for the service consumer to create or modify by itself. If it would be a case that all existing A1 policies need to be considered together for conflict detection, they would need to be provided from A1 policy management services as defined in R1GAP [i.3], clause 5.3.2.

| Use cases | Policies provided from the service consumer | Indicator to subscribe for conflict detection notification | Indication about whether to find conflicts with existing policies | Identifier for the existing policies to be excluded from the conflict detection |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1A. Conflict check for existing policies on request basis | No | Yes |  |  |
| 1B. Conflict check for existing policies on periodical scan basis | No | Yes |  |  |
| 2. Conflict check for both a new policy (Policy-A) and existing policies | Yes (Policy-A) | No | Yes |  |
| 3. Conflict check for both a modified existing policy (Policy-B’) and existing policies except the policy (Policy-B) to be modified | Yes (Policy-B’) | No | Yes | Yes (Policy-B) |
| 4. Conflict check for provided policies (Policies-X1, …, Xn) for verifying the conflict detection algorithm | Yes (Policies-X1, …, Xn) | No |  |  |

It is noted that the A1 policy functions in SMO/Non-RT RIC FW could be the conflict detection service consumer as needed when it receives the A1 policy creation/modification request.

One of possible implementation approaches for A1 policy management services to provide information about other existing A1 policies to the A1 policy conflict detection service producer would be for A1 policy management service producer to keep track of the existence of A1 policies transferred over A1 interface and cache them inside, and to provide them from the cache. The ability for A1 policy management service producer to keep track of the existence of A1 policies would reduce the workload of collection for existing policies over A1 interface as well as the workload of Near-RT RICs, comparing to always querying existing A1 policies which would invoke multiple transactions over A1 interface with Near-RT RICs.

The sequence diagram of the A1 policy conflict detection service on request basis is illustrated in Figure 6.4-1. In the referred sequence diagram, as part of the conflict detection request, the A1 policy conflict detection service customer would provide the A1 policies for which the conflicts need to be detected, indication about whether to find conflicts with existing policies, and the identifier for the existing policies to be excluded from the conflict detection. In the case of updating an existing A1 policy, A1 policy conflict detection service customer can use the identifier for the existing policy to exclude it from the conflict detection.

The sequence diagram of the A1 policy conflict detection service on subscription basis is illustrated in Figure 6.4-2. In the referred sequence diagram, the A1 policy conflict detection service customer would request to subscribe to the A1 policy conflict detection notification and would get the A1 policy conflict detection notification if detected by the periodical scan of the A1 policy conflict for existing A1 policies.

# A1 policy conflict avoidance

## 7.1 General

A1 policy conflict avoidance in SMO/Non-RT RIC aims to prevent the detected conflicts before the A1 policies that introduce conflicts with one or more existing policies are sent to Near-RT RIC. A potential A1 policy conflict can be detected by an rApp prior to sending a create or update A1 policy request or by the producer of the A1 policy management service as part of processing the create or update A1 policy request. An rApp or the producer of A1 policy management service can detect potential A1 policy conflicts by themselves or by consuming the SMO service/R1 service that has the capability to detect potential A1 policy conflicts. Once a potential conflict detected, rApp or any other consumer of the A1 policy management services or the producer of the A1 policy management services can proceed with conflict avoidance by relying on conflict arbitration service.

The conflict arbitration service consumer consumes conflict arbitration service to determine the execution preference among a set of conflicting policies. Based on this, SMO/Non-RT RIC can further implement conflict avoidance procedures to prevent the conflicts.

One of the conflict avoidance strategies, among others, could be to reject a request for the creation or update of an A1 policy. Information regarding the conflicts details and the proposals for alternative A1 policies can be conveyed in reject message. As a follow-up action to the earlier conflict avoidance actions, an rApp can be notified to retry the creation of the previously rejected policy once the existing A1 policies causing the conflicts are deleted.

## 7.2 A1 policy conflict arbitration service

A1 policy conflict arbitration service provides A1 policy conflict arbitration rules as set by the operator or outside customer which then can be used by the consumer of the A1 policy conflict arbitration service to decide among two or more conflict avoidance actions when there is a potential A1 policy conflict. Similarly, A1 policy conflict arbitration service can also provide A1 policy conflict arbitration rules as set by the operator or outside customer which then can be used by the consumer of the A1 policy conflict arbitration service to decide among two or more conflict resolution or mitigation actions when there is an actual A1 policy conflict. A1 policy conflict arbitration rules help the consumer of the A1 policy conflict arbitration service to know the execution preference among the conflicting A1 policies. Conflict arbitration service producer can provide priorities for a set of conflicting policies, the A1 policies with priorities will be provided as follows:

In the following figures in this clause, the producer of SMO service/R1 Service with conflict arbitration capabilities can provide the service.

### 7.2.1 A1 policy conflict arbitration - Option #1. Handle in sequence

This A1 Policy conflict arbitration rule indicates to the consumer of the A1 policy conflict arbitration service that the requested A1 policy has lower priority while the existing policies have higher priority.

#### 7.2.1.1 Procedures

##### 7.2.1.1.1 Handle in sequence

The figure below shows the message sequence of Option#1. Once a conflict is detected, A1 policy priorities base on the A1 policy creation/update time sequence. This option is not friendly for A1 policy service consumers to express their enforcement preferences.

### 7.2.2 A1 policy conflict arbitration - Option #2. Priority, Preemption protection

In Option#2, these A1 Policy conflict arbitration rules indicate the priority, preemption flags, and preemption protection flags of different policies to the consumer of A1 policy conflict arbitration service. Preemption Flag and Preemption Protection effectively address the needs of services that require immediate execution or cannot be interrupted once execution has begun.

Some guidelines for the arbitration rules regarding priority, the preemption flag, and the preemption protection flag are listed below:

- Preemption Flag indicate that, when a set of A1 policies conflict is detected, one of an A1 policy with this flag can pre-empt the execution of another A1 policy.
- Preempt Protection Flag indicates that when conflict is detected among a set of A1 policies, if one of the A1 policies with this flag is already being enforced, the execution of this A1 policy cannot be pre-empted by another A1 policy.
- Priority indicates the execution preference among a set of conflict A1 policies.
Some corner cases may also need to be considered in implementation. For example, both preemption flag and priority are present. Another example is a conflict is detected when two A1 policies share the same priority.

#### 7.2.2.1 Functionality analysis

##### 7.2.2.1.1 A1 policy priority and pre-emption information

| Options | Contents | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- |
| #1 rApp priority | In current stage, operators or service consumers who deploy the rApp can dynamically configure the priorities of rApps. | rApp priorities are not related to intents in current stage O-RAN specification. |
| #2 A1 Policy objectives & resource priorities | The priorities of A1 policies should reflect the intents that triggered these A1 policies. | One A1 policy may include several objectives and resource priorities. |
| #3 KPI targets priority representing operator's intent | A1 policy can also reflect the KPI targets which set by operators or service consumers. Non-RT RIC/SMO framework can set the priority base on KPI targets. | Current specifications do not specify how the KPI targets are associated with an A1 policy. |

As for the A1 policy conflict use case #1 “reserve policy” vs. “release policy” as shown in clause 5.1, there would be some of potential solutions for operators to configure the A1 policy priority. Under the low traffic load condition where RAN resources are abundant for guaranteeing the service qualities, operators would prefer release policy over reserve policy, and hence operators would put higher priority for EsObjectives (as defined in A1TD [i.4], clause 6.3.3.7) than QosObjectives (as defined in A1TD [i.4], clause 6.3.3.2) with option.2 in Table 7.2.2.1-1. If these policies are owned by separate rApps, operators would put higher priority for rApp-X which owns policies of release policy group than rApp-Y which owns policies of reserved policy group with option.1 in Table 7.2.2.1-1.  By contrast, under the high traffic load condition where securing RAN resources to guarantee the service qualities is becoming difficult, operators would prefer reserve policy over release policy, and hence operators would put higher priority for QosObjectives than EsObjectives with option.2 in Table 7.2.2.1-1, or operators would put higher priority for rApp-Y which owns policies of reserved policy group than rApp-X which owns policies of release policy group with option.1 in Table 7.2.2.1-1.

> NOTE:	An implementation of the Energy Saving policy type may apply energy saving only if there is no harm to traffic.
As for the A1 policy conflict use case #2 Policy objectives not uniquely identified as shown in clause 5.2, there would be some of potential solutions for operators to configure the A1 policy priority with option.3 in Table 7.2.2.1-1. In a case of UE-level policy vs. Slice SLA policy conflict scenario as shown in clause 5.2.2, both policies basically have different policy objective KPIs but some of them are identical KPIs in terms of UE level performance. In such case, operators would put higher priority for the UeLevelObjectives KPIs of “ulThroughput” or “dlThroughput” (as defined in A1TD [i.4], clause 6.3.3.4) than the SliceSlaObjectives KPIs of “maxDlThptPerUe” or “maxUlThptPerUe” (as defined in A1TD [i.4], clause 6.3.3.5) if operators think that UE-level policy should have higher priority than Slice SLA policy for entities in overlapping scope.

As for the A1 policy conflict use case #3 Policy resources preference not uniquely identified as shown in clause 5.3, there would be some of potential solutions for operators to configure the A1 policy priority with option.2 in Table 7.2.2.1-1. In a case of TSP policy with ueId specified vs. TSP policy with qosId specified for different “SHALL” preference cells as shown in clause 5.3.2, operators would put higher priority for the TspResource cellIdList (as defined in A1TD [i.4], clause 6.3.4.2) containing the specified cellId (cell-B) for the TSP policy with ueId specified than the TspResource cellList containing the specified cellId (cell-C) for the TSP policy with qosId specified if operators think that TSP policy with ueId specified should have higher priority than TSP policy with qosId specified.

#### 7.2.2.2 Procedures

##### 7.2.2.2.1 Conflict arbitration with priority

The figure below shows the message sequence of Option#2, A1 policy arbitrates with priority.

##### 7.2.2.2.2 Conflict arbitration with preemption protection flag

The figure below shows the message sequence of Option#2, A1 policy arbitrates with preemption protection flag.

##### 7.2.2.2.3 Conflict arbitration with preemption flag

The figure below shows the message sequence of Option#2, A1 policy arbitrates with preemption flag.

## 7.3  Procedures

### 7.3.1 General

There are different approaches for conflict avoidance.

Approach #1 is that the A1 policy function enforces A1 policies based on arbitration results by requesting rApps to delete, reject, or update an A1 policy. The A1 policy function implements conflict avoidance actions, such as rejecting a new create request from an rApp, request the rApp to delete an A1 policy or notifying rApps to update the A1 policy with proposed alternative A1 policies and conflict details information. In this approach, rApp serves as the lifecycle management (LCM) owner of A1 policies, while the A1 policy function can propose alternative A1 policies to avoid the conflicts.

Approach #2 is that send A1 policies with the information of A1 policy priorities and pre-emption information to Near-RT RIC.

Approach #3 is that SMO/Non-RT RIC provides an alternative set of conflict-free policies based on conflict detection information and conflict arbitration result.

An example of approaches for policy conflict avoidance in subset/superset overlapping scope is illustrated in Figure 7.3.1-1. In the referred figure, there are two policies (P1, P2) having subset/superset overlapping scope and conflicting situation. With case.1 as shown in the leftmost of the referred figure, approach1 is applied, exclusively one of the two policies would be selected to avoid policy conflict based on the arbitration result. In this approach, entities d and e in case.1-1 of the referred figure would not have applicable policy due to selection of the policy P1 with smaller policy scope while there are no such entities without applicable policy in case.1-2 of the referred figure with selection of the policy P2 with bigger policy scope. With case.2 as shown in the middle of the referred figure, approach2 is applied, multiple policies would be enforced simultaneously in Near-RT RIC with different priorities based on the arbitration result. In case.2-1 of the referred figure, the policy P1 has higher priority than the policy P2 and therefore the entities a, b and c in the overlapping scope are applied with higher policy P1 while in case.2-2 of the referred figure, the policy P2 has higher priority than the policy P1 and therefore all entities in the scope of the policy P2 are applied with higher policy P2. With case.3 as shown in the rightmost of the referred figure, approach1 or approach3 is applied, the policy P1 and/or the policy P2 would be modified into the policy P1’ and/or the policy P2’ to resolve conflicting situation by aligning with the same policy objectives to the ones of the highest prioritized policy. In case.3-1 of the referred figure, the policy objectives of the policy P2 would be changed into the policy P2’ to be aligned with the ones of the policy P1 because the policy P1 has higher priority than the policy P2. In case.3-2 of the referred figure, the policy objectives of the policy P1 would be changed into the policy P1’ to be aligned with the ones of the policy P2 because the policy P2 has higher priority than the policy P1.

An example of approaches for policy conflict avoidance in Jointset overlapping scope is illustrated in Figure 7.3.1-2. In the referred figure, there are two policies (P1, P2) having jointset overlapping scope and conflicting situation. With case.1 as shown in the leftmost of the referred figure, approach1 is applied, exclusively one of the two policies would be selected to avoid policy conflict based on the arbitration result. In this approach, entity e in case.1-1 of the referred figure would not have applicable policy due to selection of the policy P1 while entity d in case.1-2 of the referred figure would not have applicable policy due to selection of the policy P2. With case.2 as shown in the middle of the referred figure, approach2 is applied, multiple policies would be enforced simultaneously with different priorities based on the arbitration result. In case.2-1 of the referred figure, the policy P1 has higher priority than the policy P2 and therefore the entities a, b and c in the overlapping scope are applied with higher policy P1 while in case.2-2 of the referred figure, the policy P2 has higher priority than the policy P1 and therefore the entities a, b and c in the overlapping scope are applied with higher policy P2.With case.3 as shown in the rightmost of the referred figure, approach1 or approach3 is applied, the policy P1 and/or the policy P2 would be modified into the policy P1’ and/or the policy P2’ to resolve conflicting situation by aligning with the same policy objectives to the ones of the highest prioritized policy. In case.3-1 of the referred figure, the policy objectives of the policy P2 would be changed into the policy P2’ to be aligned with the ones of the policy P1 because the policy P1 has higher priority than the policy P2. In case.3-2 of the referred figure, the policy objectives of the policy P1 would be changed into the policy P1’ to be aligned with the ones of the policy P2 because the policy P2 has higher priority than the policy P1.

Figure 7.3.1- 2: An example of approaches for policy conflict avoidance in Jointset overlapping scope.

As for modifying the conflicting policies through arbitration result, it is noted that modifying the policy objectives would be a way to resolve the conflicting situation with overlapping scope while modifying the policy scopes and/or policy resources would be a way to remove the overlapping scope.

### 7.3.2 Approach #1. enforce A1 policy based on arbitration result

##### 7.3.2.1   Reject the creation/update of an A1 policy

When an A1 policy create or update request with a lower priority among conflict A1 policies is received, SMO/Non-RT RIC could reject this A1 policy by providing a response with an A1 policy create or update failure.

##### 7.3.2.2   Notify an rApp to retry

After a former A1 policy creation has been rejected due to conflict or an A1 policy previously causing conflict has been deleted or updated, and an URI for retry notification had been provided in the A1 policy creation message, the related rApp can be notified to retry the previously rejected or deleted A1 policy once the existing A1 policies that are causing the conflicts have been deleted or conflicts do not exist anymore. Once an rApp receives an A1 policy retry notification message, rApp can make the decision to resend an A1 policy as same as previous one, or send an updated A1 policy, or do not send an A1 policy at all. In extreme scenarios, there may be more than one previous rejected or deleted A1 policies, rApp can process all these A1 policies after receiving one A1 policy retry notification message.

##### 7.3.2.3   Terminate/update an A1 policy

When an existing A1 policy has a lower prioirty compared to an A1 policy requested for creation/updation, as determined by arbitration results, SMO/Non-RT RIC could request to delete/update this A1 policy by sending an A1 policy delete/update request notifications. Subsequently, the rApp should proceed with the delete/update of the corresponding A1 policy.

### 7.3.3 Approach #2.  multiple policies co-enforced with priorities and pre-emption information

##### 7.3.3.1   Near-RT RIC mitigate conflict with priorities and pre-emption information

### 7.3.4 Approach #3. provide alternative conflict-free policies

##### 7.3.4.1   Provide alternative conflict-free policies

In approach#3, SMO/Non-RT RIC framework can mitigate the conflict by modifying A1 policies base on arbitration result. A1 policy function is responsible for conflict avoidance base on conflict detection and conflict arbitration result. In this approach, A1 policy function is also responsible for maintaining the original A1 policies, the updated A1 policies, mapping relationship between original and updated A1 policies. A1 policy function can update the A1 policies to avoid conflict directly and notify rApps with updated A1 policies information.

### 7.3.5 Analysis of approaches

| Approach | Prospect | Consideration |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Approach #1 Enforce A1 Policy Base on Arbitration Result | Provide conflict avoidance with enforcement preference in Non-RT RIC. rApps are always responsible for the A1 policy creation, modification and termination which facilitates synchronization between rApps and the SMO/Non-RT RIC frameworks. | The R1 interface needs to be adapted to meet the requirements. rApp is always responsible for LCM of A1 policies. |
| Approach #2 Co-enforced policies with priorities | Provide with priorities and pre-emption information to Near-RT RIC to facilitate conflict mitigation. | The R1 and A1 interface needs to be adapted to meet the requirements. The usage of A1 policies priorities and pre-emption information (refer to clause 7.2.2.1) is not within the scope of Non-RT RIC. |
| Approach #3 Provide Alternative Conflict-free Policies | A solution may maximally meet the requirements of all A1 policies from different rApps, especially in autonomous network. | The R1 interface needs to be adapted to meet the requirements. The A1 policy function is responsible for maintaining the original A1 policies, updated A1 policies, and mapping relationship between the original and updated A1 policies.  SMO/Non-RT RIC framework will bypass the rApps to update the A1 policy, i.e., SMO/Non-RT RIC framework is responsible for LCM of A1 policies during conflict avoidance, rather than consistantly relying on rApps. There is a possibility that the updated A1 policies may not be acceptable for Near-RT RICs and rApps. |

# Recommendations

## 8.1 Recommendations for A1 policy conflict related services

| [REC-A1PCRS1] | A1 policy conflict detection service should support use cases of the A1 policy conflict detection service as shown in Table 6.4-1. (clause 6.4) |
| --- | --- |

| [REC-A1PCRS2] | A1 policy conflict detection service should provide overlap information (clause 6.2.4) and information of conflicting situation (clause 6.3.3) for detected sets of potential conflicting policies. (clause 6.4) |
| --- | --- |

| [REC-A1PCRS3] | A1 policy conflict detection service should provide the capabilities to uniquely identify the detected conflicts in the SMO/Non-RT RIC. (clause 6.3.1) |
| --- | --- |

| [REC-A1PCRS4] | A1 policy conflict detection service producer should have capability to collect information about existing A1 policies with use of the A1 policy management services. (clause 6.4) |
| --- | --- |

| [REC-A1PCRS5] | A1 policy conflict arbitration service should support the configuration of Influencing factors of A1 policy priorities (clause 7.2.2.1.1) |
| --- | --- |

| [REC-A1PCRS6] | A1 policy conflict arbitration service should provide information about priorities for a set of conflicting policies. (clause 7.2) |
| --- | --- |

| [REC-A1PCRS7] | A1 policy conflict arbitration service should provide the A1 policy priority and preempt information of A1 policies. (clause 7.2.2.1.2) |
| --- | --- |

## 8.2 Recommendations for A1 policy management services

| [REC-R1-A1P-FUN1] | The A1 policy management service should reject a create A1 policy request or an update A1 policy request if the requested policy has a conflict with any of the existing policies. Reject response should provide a relevant error code and error reason (refer to clause 7.3.2.1), if approach #1 is applied. |
| --- | --- |

| [REC-R1-A1P-FUN2] | A1 policy management service(s) should support the capability to provide the conflicting information in the reject response if a create A1 policy request or an update A1 policy request is rejected due to conflicts (refer to clause 7.3.2.1), if approach #1 is applied. |
| --- | --- |

| [REC-R1-A1P-FUN3] | A1 policy management service(s) should support the capability to propose alternative A1 policy if a create A1 policy request or an update A1 policy request is rejected due to conflicts (refer to clause 7.3.2.1), if approach #1 is applied. |
| --- | --- |

| [REC-R1-A1P-FUN4] | The A1 policy management service should support the capability to notify the registered consumer when a policy is deleted or updated (refer to clause 7.3.2.2), if approach #1 is applied. |
| --- | --- |

| [REC-R1-A1P-FUN5] | The A1 policy management service should support the capability to notify the owner of an A1 policy about the proposal to delete or update an A1 policy optionally along with reason behind the proposal, if approach #1 is applied. Note: Reason for such proposal could be conflict avoidance when an existing A1 policy has a lower priority compared to a requested A1 policy for creation or updating, as determined by arbitration results (refer to clause 7.3.2.3). |
| --- | --- |

| [REC-R1-A1P-FUN6] | The A1 policy management service (s) should support to provide A1 policy priority and preemption information in an A1 policy creation or update message. (refer to clause 7.3.3.1), if approach #2 is applied. |
| --- | --- |

| [REC-R1-A1P-FUN7] | A1 policy management service should support the capability to notify the owner of an A1 policy about the forced deletion/updating of an A1 policy along with relevant reason. In case of update, notification should provide the updated A1 policy, if approach #3 is applied. Note: Reason for such forced deletion/updating of an A1 policy could be conflict mitigation when an existing A1 policy has a lower priority compared to a requested A1 policy for creation or updating, as determined by arbitration results (refer to clause 7.3.4.1). |
| --- | --- |

## 8.3 Note for recommendations in terms of formulation for A1 policy conflict related services

Through the A1 policy conflict mitigation SI, we propose to support two A1 policy conflict related services in the TR below:

- A1 policy conflict detection service
- A1 policy conflict arbitration service
These are surely the A1-related services but not obvious if they should be regarded as part of the A1 policy management service(s) as defined in Non-RT-RIC-ARCH [i.2], clause 7.4.1 because the A1 policy conflict related services have totally new and possibly independent functions from such fundamental ones as the A1 policy management service. There would be options to formulate the A1 policy conflict related services:

- Option.1 A1 policy conflict related services as part of A1 policy management service(s)
- Option.2 Individual A1 policy conflict related services separate from A1 policy management service(s)
- Option.3 Set of A1 policy conflict related services separate from A1 policy management service(s)
The formulation of the A1 policy conflict related services would be an item for further investigation to align with existing services and other related items like the R1 Services-Related Conflict Mitigation WI.


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG2.TS.A1AP-R004-v05.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG2.TS.A1AP-R004-v05.00 Technical Specification"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in A1GAP [2], clause 3.1 and the following apply: EiJobId: Simple Data Type representing the EI job identifier. EI job identifier: identifier of an EI job that is used for requesting and delivering A1 enrichment information. EI job result: resulting enrichment information delivered based on an EI job. EiTypeId: Simple Data Type representing the EI type identifier. EI type identifier: identifier of an EI type. PolicyId: Simple Data Type representing the policy identifier. policy identifier: identifier of an A1 policy that is used in policy operations. PolicyObject: representation of an A1 policy in JSON format used as payload in HTTP based policy procedures. policy statement: expression of a goal in an A1 policy that is related to policy objectives and/or policy resources and is to be applied to/for the entities identified by the scope identifier. PolicyStatusObject: representation of the status of an A1 policy in JSON format used as payload in HTTP based policy procedures. PolicyTypeId: Simple Data Type representing the policy type identifier. policy type: model on which a PolicyObject and a PolicyStatusObject is based. policy type identifier: identifier of a policy type. scope identifier: identifier of what the statements in the policy or the EI job applies to (UE, group of UEs, slice, QoS flow, network resource or combinations thereof).

## 3.2 Symbols
Void.

## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in A1GAP [2], clause 3.3 and the following apply: Id Identifier ML Machine Learning REST REpresentational State Transfer URI Uniform Resource Identifier

# 4 A1 Application Protocol

## 4.1 Introduction
The present document specifies a REST realisation of the A1 interface architecture, and the policy and EI procedures identified in A1GAP [2], clause 6. It is based on HTTP as defined in A1TP [3], clause 8 and application data models defined in A1TD [4], clauses 6 and 8. This definition of the A1 Application Protocol (A1AP) corresponds to a REST-based Solution Set and is based on the principles and guidelines in 3GPP TS 29.501 [6] and the related TS template [i.1]. The design patterns for HTTP procedures and JSON objects follow 3GPP TS 32.158 [i.2], clause 6.

## 4.2 Compatibility of A1 versions
The version number of the present document indicates that there may be implications for the compatibility between A1 implementations in Non/Near-RT RICs that are based on different versions of this specification. The present document specifies APIs which can have different versions. There is no one-to-one mapping between the version number of present document and the API version number of an API specified in the present document. There can be a change in the version number of the present document even if there is no change in the version number of the APIs specified in the present document. The compatibility of A1 implementations in Non/Near-RT RICs depends on the A1 services that are implemented and which API version(s) that are implemented for each A1 service. The API version is indicated in the URI (see clauses 6.2.1 and 6.3.1) and in the OpenAPI document (see Annex A). The present document handles the API compatibility aspects while A1TD [4] handles the compatibility for data types used by the A1 APIs.

# 5 A1 services

## 5.1 Introduction
The present document specifies the APIs for the following services defined in A1GAP [2], clause 4.1.3: A1-P: A1 policy management service; A1-EI: A1 enrichment information service; and A1-ML: A1 ML model management service. The A1 application protocol is based on signalling between a service consumer and a service producer residing in the Non-RT RIC or in the Near-RT RIC as described by the A1 service architecture in A1GAP [2], clause 4.1.3. The APIs are specified based on the principles and guidelines for service-based interfaces specified in 3GPP TS 29.501 [6]. It is the service producer that handles the resources on which the service consumer performs operations. The terms consumer and producer do not refer to the direction of the data transfer over the A1 interface.

## 5.2 Policy management service

### 5.2.1 Introduction
The A1-P service defines service operations that are used with policy types defined in A1TD [4], clause 7.2.

### 5.2.2 Service description

#### 5.2.2.1 Functional elements
The A1 application protocol for A1-P is based on signalling between the A1-P Consumer residing in the Non-RT RIC and the A1-P Producer residing in the Near-RT RIC. Both the A1-P Consumer and the A1-P Producer contain an HTTP Client and an HTTP Server. ppppp ooooo lic lic lic lic lic yyyyy tytytytyty ppppp eeeee ss/{p s/{p s/{p s/{p oooo licy licy licy licy TTTT yyyy pppp eeee IdIdIdId }}/p }/p }/p ooo lic lic lic ieieie ss/{p s/{p oo lic lic yy IdId }}/sta tu s

# D E

# P U

# G E
LE T TTE A A -P -P C H H P o n s u m e r

# T T P C lie n

# T T P S e r v e
r o d u c e r t r H H T T T T P P S C e r v e lie n r t

# P O S
{n T o tific a tio n D e s tin a tio n }
> NOTE: Arrows indicate direction of HTTP requests sent from HTTP Client to HTTP Server and HTTP responses sent
from HTTP Server to HTTP Client. The present document specifies the A1 policy procedures defined in A1UCR [1], clause 6 and A1GAP [2], clause 6.2 using HTTP operations in accordance with A1TP [3], clause 8 where a policy is represented as a JSON object in accordance with IETF RFC 8259 [7] as defined in A1TD [4].

#### 5.2.2.2 Policy representation
The following principles are used for A1 policies when JSON is used as resource representation format:
- a policy corresponds to a resource (in the REST sense);
- a policy is represented as a JSON object referred to as a PolicyObject;
- a PolicyObject contains a scope identifier and at least one policy statement (e.g. one or more policy objective
statements and/or one or more policy resource statements);
- a policy is identified by a policyId that is included in the URI when an operation is for a single policy;
- the policyId is assigned by the A1-P Consumer when the policy is created;
- the A1-P Producer cannot modify or delete a policy;
- policy status and feedback notifications for a specific policy is subscribed to when the policy is created by
providing a callback URI in the Create policy operation;
- a PolicyObject does not contain any information related to which internal function in the Near-RT RIC that is to
evaluate the policy;
- the A1-P Producer indicates for which policy types policy creation is supported, and the JSON schemas for policy
types can be retrieved by the A1-P Consumer; and
- the A1-P Consumer cannot create, modify, or delete policy types.

#### 5.2.2.3 Representation objects
The following JSON objects are used within the service operations of the A1-P service: PolicyTypeObject The PolicyTypeObject contains the JSON schemas used to validate a PolicyObject and a PolicyStatusObject. PolicyObject The PolicyObject is the JSON representation of an A1 policy. PolicyStatusObject The PolicyStatusObject is the JSON representation of the enforcement status of an A1 policy. ProblemDetails The ProblemDetails object is the JSON representation of the content in a response message with other HTTP error response codes (4xx/5xx).

#### 5.2.2.4 Resource identifiers
The URI for A1 policy types is: …/policytypes A single policy type is identified by adding the value of the policy type identifier to the URI: …/policytypes/{policyTypeId} The URI for A1 policies is: …/policytypes/{policyTypeId}/policies A single policy is identified by adding the value of the policy identifier to the URI: …/policytypes/{policyTypeId}/policies/{policyId} The URI for status of a single policy is: …/policytypes/{policyTypeId}/policies/{policyId}/status The URI for policy notification is referred to as the notificationDestination and is a callback URI provided when creating a policy.

### 5.2.3 Service operations for A1 policy types

#### 5.2.3.1 Introduction
the mandatory HTTP status codes for the operations. Service operation HTTP method HTTP status codes Query policy type identifiers GET 200 Query policy type GET 200, 404 The following clauses describe the policy type operations.
> NOTE: The present document does not define any limits for how many policyTypeId that can be transferred in a single
A1 message.

#### 5.2.3.2 Query policy type identifiers

##### 5.2.3.2.1 General
The A1-P Consumer uses the Query policy type identifiers operation to discover policy types. The operation to query policy type identifiers is based on HTTP GET. The resource to be read is identified within the URI while the message body is empty, and the response returns an array of identifiers representing all available policy types. A1-P Consumer A1-P Producer 1. GET policytypes 2. 200 OK (array(PolicyTypeId)) A1-P Consumer A1-P Producer 1) The A1-P Consumer shall send an HTTP GET request to the A1-P Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource "/policytypes". The message body shall be empty. 2) The A1-P Producer shall return the HTTP GET response. On success, "200 OK" shall be returned. The message body shall carry an array of policy type identifiers representing all available policy types. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message body may contain additional error information.

##### 5.2.3.2.2 Query all policy type identifiers procedure
The procedure to query all policy type identifiers is based on the Query policy type identifiers operation illustrated in figure 5.2.3.2.1-1.

#### 5.2.3.3 Query policy type

##### 5.2.3.3.1 General
A1-P Consumer uses the Query policy type procedures to read the schemas for a specific policy type or for all policy types. The Query policy type operation is used in the following procedures:
- Query single policy type;
- Query multiple policy types; and
- Query all policy types.
The operation to query a policy type is based on HTTP GET. The policy type to be read is identified with a URI that includes the policyTypeId while the message body is empty, and the response returns the PolicyTypeObject. A1-P Consumer A1-P Producer 1. GET policytypes/{policyTypeId} 2. 200 OK (PolicyTypeObject) A1-P Consumer A1-P Producer 1) The A1-P Consumer shall send an HTTP GET request to the A1-P Producer. The target URI shall identify the policy type to be read based on the policyTypeId under the resource "/policytypes". The message body shall be empty. 2) The A1-P Producer shall return the HTTP GET response. On success, "200 OK" shall be returned. The message body shall carry a PolicyTypeObject representing the read policy type. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message body may contain additional error information. On reception of a policyTypeId that does not exist, "404 Not Found" shall be returned.

##### 5.2.3.3.2 Query single policy type procedure
The procedure to query single policy type is based on the Query policy type operation illustrated in figure 5.2.3.3.1-1.

##### 5.2.3.3.3 Query multiple policy types procedure
The procedure to query multiple policy types is a sequence of Query policy type operations.

##### 5.2.3.3.4 Query all policy types procedure
The procedure to query all policy types is a sequence of Query policy type operations for each policy type identifier retrieved as described in clause 5.2.3.2.1.

### 5.2.4 Service operations for A1 policies

#### 5.2.4.1 Introduction
mandatory HTTP status codes for the operations. Service operation HTTP method HTTP status codes Query policy identifiers GET 200, 404 Create policy PUT 201, 400, 404, 409 Update policy PUT 200, 400, 409 Query policy GET 200, 404 Delete policy DELETE 204, 404 Query policy status GET 200, 404 Notify policy status POST 204, 400 The following clauses describe the policy operations. For details on the policy-related objects (in JSON format) transferred in the HTTP message bodies, see A1TD [4], clause 6.4. The policy scope in a PolicyObject contains a scope identifier that can be e.g. a ueId, a groupId or a cellId. The A1-P Consumer maps policyIds to scope identifiers in order to manage e.g. all policies applicable to a specific individual ueId. If there are several policies related to the same scope identifier, then several policy operations can be used to manage that specific scope. The A1-P Producer enables the A1-P Consumer to create policies of specific types and the A1-P Consumer can discover the supported policy types. The A1-P Consumer indicates the policyTypeId when creating or updating a policy and when querying for a specific policy.
> NOTE: The present document does not define any limits for how many policyId that can be transferred in a single A1
message.

#### 5.2.4.2 Query policy identifiers

##### 5.2.4.2.1 General
The A1-P Consumer uses the Query policy identifiers operation to discover policies for a specific policy type or for all policy types. The Query policy identifiers operation is used in the following procedures:
- Query policy identifiers; and
- Query all policy identifiers.
The operation to query all policy identifiers is based on HTTP GET. The policy type resource to be read is identified within the URI while the message body is empty, and the response returns an array of identifiers representing all available policies of that policy type. A1-P Consumer A1-P Producer 1. GET policytypes/{policyTypeId}/policies 2. 200 OK (array(PolicyId)) A1-P Consumer A1-P Producer 1) The A1-P Consumer shall send an HTTP GET request to the A1-P Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource "/policytypes/{policyTypeId}/policies". The message body shall be empty. 2) The A1-P Producer shall return the HTTP GET response. On success, "200 OK" shall be returned. The message body shall carry an array of policy identifiers representing all available policies of the given policy type. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message body may contain additional error information. On reception of a policyTypeId that does not exist, "404 Not Found" shall be returned.

##### 5.2.4.2.2 Query policy identifiers procedure
The procedure to query policy identifiers is based on the Query policy identifiers operation illustrated in figure 5.2.4.2.1-1.

##### 5.2.4.2.3 Query all policy identifiers procedure
The procedure to query all policy identifiers is based on the Query policy identifiers operation. The operation is performed for each policy type for which policies have been created, or for each policy type identifier discovered using the Query policy type identifiers operation defined in clause 5.2.3.2.1.

#### 5.2.4.3 Create policy

##### 5.2.4.3.1 General
The A1-P Consumer uses the Create policy procedure to create an A1 policy. The Create policy operation is used in the following procedures:
- Create single policy; and
- Create multiple policies.
The operation to create a policy is based on HTTP PUT. The policy to be created is identified with a URI that includes the policyTypeId and the policyId and the message body contains the PolicyObject. If the policy creation request is accepted, the policy shall be enforced. In case a policy already exists for the provided URI, the PUT request shall be handled as for Update single policy (see clause 5.2.4.4.1). A1-P Consumer A1-P Producer 1. PUT policytypes/{policyTypeId}/policies/{policyId} (PolicyObject) 2. 201 Created (PolicyObject) A1-P Consumer A1-P Producer 1) The A1-P Consumer shall generate the policyId and send an HTTP PUT request to the A1-P Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource (policyId) to be created under the resource "/policytypes/{policyTypeId}/policies". The message body shall carry a PolicyObject. 2) The A1-P Producer shall return the HTTP PUT response. On success, "201 Created" shall be returned. The "Location" HTTP header shall be present and shall carry the URI of the new policy and the message body shall carry the PolicyObject. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the message body may contain additional error information. When creating a policy, the A1-P Consumer shall include a policyTypeId in the URI for the PUT request. The policyTypeId shall be used by the A1-P Producer to select the appropriate schemas to use for validation of the PolicyObject and for PolicyStatus. The A1-P Consumer may subscribe to policy status and feedback notifications related to the created policy. Policy status and feedback notifications are subscribed to by including the notificationDestination as a query parameter in the PUT request. On reception of a policyTypeId that does not exist, "404 Not Found" shall be returned. On failure to validate the PolicyObject, "400 Bad Request" shall be returned. In case the new policy would be identical to, or would be overlapping or conflicting with, an existing policy, "409 Conflict" shall be returned.

##### 5.2.4.3.2 Create single policy procedure
The procedure to create single policy is based on the Create policy operation illustrated in figure 5.2.4.3.1-1.

##### 5.2.4.3.3 Create multiple policies procedure
The procedure to create multiple policies is a sequence of Create policy operations.

#### 5.2.4.4 Update policy

##### 5.2.4.4.1 General
The A1-P Consumer uses the Update single policy procedure to update an A1 policy. The Update policy operation is used in the following procedures:
- Update single policy; and
- Update multiple policies.
The operation to update a single policy is based on HTTP PUT. The policy to be updated is identified with a URI that includes the policyTypeId and the policyId and the message body contains the PolicyObject for the updated policy. If the policy update request is accepted, the policy shall be enforced. In case a policy does not exist for the provided URI, the PUT request shall be handled as for Create single policy (see clause 5.2.4.3.1). A A - - P P C C o o n n s s u u m m e . P e r U r T p o lic y t y p e s / { p o lic . 2 0 y T y O p K e Id ( P } / p o lic o y lic O b ie je s / { p c t ) o lic y Id } ( P o lic y O b A je A c t - ) - P P P P r r o o d d u u c c e e r r 1) The A1-P Consumer shall send an HTTP PUT request to the A1-P Producer. The target URI shall identify the policy to be updated based on the policyId under the resource "/policytypes/{policyTypeId}/policies". The message body shall contain a PolicyObject. 2) The A1-P Producer shall return the HTTP PUT response. On success, "200 OK" shall be returned. The message body shall carry a PolicyObject representing the updated policy. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message body may contain additional error information. The A1-P Consumer may subscribe to policy status and feedback notifications related to the updated policy. Policy status and feedback notifications are subscribed to by including the notificationDestination as a query parameter in the PUT request. The A1-P Consumer may change the notificationDestination for policy status and feedback notifications in an update policy request. The A1-P Consumer may cancel policy status and feedback notifications. Policy status and feedback notifications are cancelled by omitting notificationDestination in the PUT request. On failure to validate the PolicyObject fails, "400 Bad Request" shall be returned. In case the policy after update would be identical to, or would be overlapping or conflicting with, an existing policy, "409 Conflict" shall be returned.

##### 5.2.4.4.2 Update single policy procedure
The procedure to update single policy is based on the Update policy operation illustrated in figure 5.2.4.4.1-1.

##### 5.2.4.4.3 Update multiple policies procedure
The procedure to update multiple policies is a sequence of Update policy operations.

#### 5.2.4.5 Query policy

##### 5.2.4.5.1 General
The A1-P Consumer uses the Query policy operation to read an A1 policy. The Query policy operation is used in the following procedures:
- Query single policy;
- Query multiple policies; and
- Query all policies.
The operation to query a policy is based on HTTP GET. The policy to be read is identified with a URI that includes the policyTypeId and the policyId while the message body is empty, and the response returns the PolicyObject. A1-P Consumer A1-P Producer 1. GET policytypes/{policyTypeId}/policies/{policyId} 2. 200 OK (PolicyObject) A1-P Consumer A1-P Producer 1) The A1-P Consumer shall send an HTTP GET request to the A1-P Producer. The target URI shall identify the policy to be read based on the policyId under the resource "/policytypes/{policyTypeId}/policies". The message body shall be empty. 2) The A1-P Producer shall return the HTTP GET response. On success, "200 OK" shall be returned. The message body shall carry a PolicyObject representing the read policy. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message body may contain additional error information. On reception of policyTypeId and policyId for which no policy exists, "404 Not Found" shall be returned.

##### 5.2.4.5.2 Query single policy procedure
The procedure to query single policy is based on the Query policy operation illustrated in figure 5.2.4.5.1-1.

##### 5.2.4.5.3 Query multiple policies procedure
The procedure to query multiple policies is a sequence of Query policy operations.
> NOTE: To query all policies applicable to e.g. a dynamically defined group of UEs, a slice or a cell, the A1-P Consumer
identifies applicable policyId(s) and makes a sequence of single policy queries.

##### 5.2.4.5.4 Query all policies procedure
The procedure to query all policies is, for each policyTypeId retrieved as described in clause 5.2.3.2.1, a sequence of Query policy operations for each policyId retrieved as described in clause 5.2.4.2.1.

#### 5.2.4.6 Delete policy

##### 5.2.4.6.1 General
The A1-P Consumer uses the Delete policy procedure to delete an A1 policy. The Delete policy operation is used in the following procedures:
- Delete single policy; and
- Delete multiple policies.
The operation to delete a policy is based on HTTP DELETE. The policy to be deleted is identified with a URI that includes the policyTypeId and the policyId. Neither request nor response contain any PolicyObject in the message body. A1-P Consumer A1-P Producer 1. DELETE policytypes/{policyTypeId}/policies/{policyId} 2. 204 No Content A1-P Consumer A1-P Producer 1) The A1-P Consumer shall send an HTTP DELETE request to the A1-P Producer. The target URI shall identify the policy to be deleted based on the policyId under the resource "/policytypes/{policyTypeId}/policies". The message body shall be empty. 2) The A1-P Producer shall return the HTTP DELETE response. On success, "204 No Content" shall be returned. The message body shall be empty. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message body may contain additional error information. On the reception of policyTypeId and policyId for which no policy exists, "404 Not Found" shall be returned.

##### 5.2.4.6.2 Delete single policy procedure
The procedure to delete single policy is based on the Delete policy operation illustrated in figure 5.2.4.6.1-1.

##### 5.2.4.6.3 Delete multiple policies procedure
The procedure to delete multiple policies is a sequence of Delete policy operations.

#### 5.2.4.7 Query policy status

##### 5.2.4.7.1 General
The A1-P Consumer uses the Query policy status operation to query the status of an A1 policy. The operation to query status for a policy is based on HTTP GET. The policy for which status is to be read is identified with a URI that includes the policyTypeId and the policyId while the message body is empty, and the response returns a PolicyStatusObject. A1-P Consumer A1-P Producer 1. GET policytypes/{policyTypeId}/policies/{policyId}/status 2. 200 OK (PolicyStatusObject) A1-P Consumer A1-P Producer 1) The A1-P Consumer shall send an HTTP GET request to the A1-P Producer. The target URI shall identify the policy for which status is to be read based on the policyId under the resource "/policytypes/{policyTypeId}/policies". The message body shall be empty. 2) The A1-P Producer shall return the HTTP GET response. On success, "200 OK" shall be returned. The message body shall carry a PolicyStatusObject representing the status of the policy. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message body may contain additional error information. On reception of policyTypeId and policyId for which no policy status exists, "404 Not Found" shall be returned.

##### 5.2.4.7.2 Query policy status procedure
The procedure to query policy status is based on the Query policy status operation illustrated in figure 5.2.4.7.1-1.

#### 5.2.4.8 Notify policy status

##### 5.2.4.8.1 General
The A1-P Producer uses the Notify policy status operation to update the A1-P Consumer about changes of the status of an A1 policy. Notify policy status is an operation that requires the A1-P Producer to have a reduced feature HTTP Client for sending HTTP POST requests and receiving HTTP POST responses. Correspondingly, the A1-P Consumer is required to have a reduced feature HTTP Server for receiving HTTP POST requests and sending HTTP POST responses. The A1-P Consumer uses the Create single policy operation defined in clause 5.2.4.3.1, or the Update single policy operation defined in clause 5.2.4.4.1, to subscribe to policy status and feedback notifications for a policy. The policy status and feedback notifications are sent to the notifcationDestination provided when creating or updating the policy. The PolicyStatusObject contains the information about policy status and may contain information about causes for status change. The operation to notify policy status is based on HTTP POST. The URI contains the target resource for policy status and feedback notification handling. The notification content is represented in a PolicyStatusObject that is included in the message body. A1-P Consumer A1-P Producer 1. POST {notificationDestination} (PolicyStatusObject) 2. 204 No content A1-P Consumer A1-P Producer 1) The A1-P Producer shall send an HTTP POST request to the A1-P Consumer. The target URI (notificationDestination) identifies the sink for policy status and feedback notifications. The message body shall contain a PolicyStatusObject. 2) The A1-P Consumer shall return the HTTP POST response with "204 No Content". The message body shall be empty. On failure to validate the PolicyStatusObject, "400 Bad Request" shall be returned, and the response message body may contain additional error information.

##### 5.2.4.8.2 Notify policy status procedure
The procedure to notify policy status and feedback is based on the Notify policy status operation illustrated in figure 5.2.4.8.1- 1.

## 5.3 Enrichment information service

### 5.3.1 Introduction
The A1-EI service defines service operations that are used with EI types defined in A1TD [4], clause 9.2.

### 5.3.2 Service description

#### 5.3.2.1 Functional elements
The A1 application protocol for A1-EI is based on signalling between the A1-EI Consumer residing in the Near-RT RIC and the A1-EI Producer residing in the Non-RT RIC. Both the A1-EI Consumer and the A1-EI Producer contain an HTTP Client and an HTTP Server. eitypes eitypes/{eiTypeId} A1-EI Producer eijobs eijobs/{eiJobId} eijobs/{eiJobId}/status HTTP Server HTTP Client GET PUT POST DELETE HTTP Client HTTP Server {jobStatusNotificationUri} {jobResultUri} A1-EI Consumer
> NOTE: Arrows indicate direction of HTTP requests sent from HTTP Client to HTTP Server and HTTP responses sent
from HTTP Server to HTTP Client. The present document specifies the A1 EI procedures defined in A1GAP [2], clause 6.3 using HTTP operations in accordance with A1TP [3], clause 8 where EI types, jobs and job status and results are represented as JSON objects in accordance with RFC 8259 [7] as defined in A1TD [4], clause 8.4.

#### 5.3.2.2 A1 EI representation
The following principles are used for A1 enrichment information when JSON is used as resource representation format:
- the A1-EI Producer indicates the EI types that are available;
- an EI type is identified by an EI type identifier and the schemas for available EI types can be retrieved by the A1-
EI Consumer;
- an EI job can be created for delivery of information of a specific A1 EI type;
- an EI job corresponds to a resource (in the REST sense);
- an EI job, when transferred over HTTP, is represented as a JSON object referred to as an EiJobObject;
- an EI job object contains a scope identifier and parameters and conditions related to the EI type the job is for;
- an EI job is identified by an EI job identifier that is included in the URI for an EI job operation;
- the EI job identifier is assigned by the A1-EI Consumer when the EI job is created;
- status for a specific EI job can be queried and notifications can be subscribed to when the EI job is created by
providing a callback URI in the create EI job operation;
- an EI job object does not contain any information related to which source that produces it nor which internal
function in the near-RIC that is to consume it;
- EI job results are delivered to a callback URI provided in the create EI job operation; and
- delivered A1 EI that is represented as a JSON object is referred to as an EiJobResultObject.

#### 5.3.2.3 Representation objects
The following JSON objects are used within the service operations of the A1-EI service: EiTypeObject The EI type object contains the JSON schemas used to formulate an EI job and interpret an EI job status object and an EI job result object. EiJobObject The EI job object is the JSON representation of an EI job. EiJobStatusObject The EI job status object is the JSON representation of the status for an EI job. EiJobResultObject The EI job result object is the JSON representation of the result delivered during an EI job. ProblemDetails The problem details object is the JSON representation of the content in a response message with other HTTP error response codes (4xx/5xx).

#### 5.3.2.4 Resource identifiers
The URI for A1 enrichment information is: …/eitypes A single EI type is identified by adding the value of the EI type identifier to the URI: …/eitypes/{eiTypeId} The URI for A1 EI jobs is: …/eijobs A single EI job is identified by adding the value of the EI job identifier to the URI: …/eijobs/{eiJobId} The URI for status of an EI job is: …/eijobs/{eiJobId}/status The URI for EI job status notification is referred to as the jobStatusNotificationUri and is a callback URI provided when creating an EI job. The URI for delivery of EI job result is referred to as the jobResultUri and is a callback URI provided when creating an EI job.

### 5.3.3 Service operations for A1 EI types

#### 5.3.3.1 Introduction
the mandatory HTTP status codes. Service operation HTTP method HTTP status codes Query EI type identifiers GET 200 Query EI type GET 200, 404 The following clauses describe the EI types operations. For further information on the EI objects transferred in the HTTP message bodies, see A1TD [4], clause 8.4.1. The purpose of the EI types operations is to enable the A1-EI Consumer to
- identify which EI types that are available from the A1-EI Producer. Each specific type of enrichment information is
identified by a unique EI type identifier (EiTypeId); and
- request detailed information related to a specific EI type that can be used to create an EI job and to handle the
delivery of results from the EI job.
> NOTE: The present document does not define any limits for how many eiTypeId/eiJobId that can be transferred in a
single A1 message.

#### 5.3.3.2 Query EI type identifiers

##### 5.3.3.2.1 General
The A1-EI Consumer uses the Query EI type identifiers operation to query which EI types that are currently supported. The operation to query EI type identifiers is based on HTTP GET. The resource to be read is identified within the URI while the message body is empty, and the response returns an array of identifiers representing all available EI types. A A - - E E

# I P

# I P
r r o o d d u u c c e e r r

# E T

# K ( a r r a e
y it y p ( E iT e y s p e Id ) ) A A - - E E

# I C

# I C
o o n n s s u u m m e e r r 1) The A1-EI Consumer shall send an HTTP GET request to the A1-EI Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource "/eitypes". The message body shall be empty. 2) The A1-EI Producer shall return the HTTP GET response. On success, "200 OK" shall be returned. The message body shall carry an array of EI type identifiers representing all available EI types. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message body may contain additional error information.

##### 5.3.3.2.2 Query EI type identifiers procedure
The procedure to query EI type identifiers is based on the Query EI type identifiers operation illustrated in figure 5.3.3.2.1-1.

#### 5.3.3.3 Query EI type

##### 5.3.3.3.1 General
The A1-EI Consumer uses the Query EI type operation to read the schemas for an EI type. The operation to query an EI type is based on HTTP GET. The EI type to be queried is identified with a URI that includes the eiTypeId while the message body is empty, and the response returns the EiTypeObject. A1-EI Producer A1-EI Consumer 1. GET eitypes/{eiTypeId} 2. 200 OK (EiTypeObject) A1-EI Producer A1-EI Consumer 1) The A1-EI Consumer shall send an HTTP GET request to the A1-EI Producer. The target URI shall identify the EI type to be read based on the eiTypeId under the resource "/eitypes". The message body shall be empty. 2) The A1-EI Producer shall return the HTTP GET response. On success, "200 OK" shall be returned. The message body shall carry an EiTypeObject representing the read EI type. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message body may contain additional error information. On reception of an eiTypeId that does not exist, "404 Not Found" shall be returned.

##### 5.3.3.3.2 Query EI type procedure
The procedure to query EI type is based on the Query EI type operation illustrated in figure 5.3.3.3.1-1.

### 5.3.4 Service operations for A1 EI jobs

#### 5.3.4.1 Introduction
mandatory HTTP status codes. Service operation HTTP method HTTP status codes Query EI job identifiers GET 200 Create EI job PUT 201, 400, 404, 409 Query EI job GET 200, 404 Update EI job PUT 200, 400, 409 Delete EI job DELETE 204, 404 Query EI job status GET 200, 404 Notify EI job status POST 204, 400 The following clauses describe the EI jobs operations. For further information on the EI job objects transferred in the HTTP message bodies, see A1TD [4], clauses 8.4.2, 8.4.3, and 8.4.5. The EI job contains a definition of the content and conditions for the delivery of the EI job result. The A1-EI Producer enables the A1-EI Consumer to create EI jobs for specific EI types and the A1-EI Consumer can discover the supported EI types. The A1-EI Consumer indicates the eiTypeId in all EI job related operations.
> NOTE: The present document does not define any limits for how many eiTypeId/eiJobId that can be transferred in a
single A1 message.

#### 5.3.4.2 Query EI job identifiers

##### 5.3.4.2.1 General
The A1-EI Consumer uses the Query EI job identifiers operation to check which EI jobs that exist. The operation to query EI job identifiers is based on HTTP GET. The resource to be read is identified within the URI while the message body is empty, and the response returns an array of identifiers representing all available EI jobs. The operation can be performed for each EI type for which EI jobs have been created, or for all created EI jobs. A A - - E E

# I P

# I P
r r o o d d u u c c e e r r

# I C

# I C
o o n n s s u u m m e e r r 1) The A1-EI Consumer shall send an HTTP GET request to the A1-EI Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource "/eijobs". The message body shall be empty. 2) The A1-EI Producer shall return the HTTP GET response. On success, "200 OK" shall be returned. The message body shall carry an array of EI job identifiers representing all available EI jobs of the given EI type, or of all EI types. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message body may contain additional error information. To request EI job identifiers only related to a specific EI type, the A1-EI Consumer includes the eiTypeId as a query parameter in the GET request.

##### 5.3.4.2.2 Query EI job identifiers procedure
The procedure to query EI job identifiers is based on the Query EI job identifiers operation illustrated in figure 5.3.4.2.1-1.

#### 5.3.4.3 Create EI job

##### 5.3.4.3.1 General
The A1-EI Consumer uses the Create EI job operation to create an EI job. The operation to create an EI job is based on HTTP PUT. The EI job to be created is identified with a URI that includes the eiJobId and the message body contains the EiJobObject. The format of the EiJobObject is checked, and the request is either accepted or rejected. If accepted, delivery of EI results will start based on the content and conditions defined in the EI job.
> NOTE: In case an EI job already exists for the provided URI, the PUT request is handled as for Update EI job (see
clause 5.3.4.4.1). A A - - E E

# I P

# I P
r r o o d d u u c c e e r r

# K ( E
} (E iJ o b iJo O b b O je b je c t ) c t ) A A - - E E

# I C

# I C
o o n n s s u u m m e e r r 1) The A1-EI Consumer shall generate the eiJobId and send an HTTP PUT request to the A1-EI Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource (eiJobId) be created under the resource "/eijobs". The message body shall carry an EiJobObject. 2) The A1-EI Producer shall return the HTTP PUT response. On success, "201 Created" shall be returned. The "Location" HTTP header shall be present and shall carry the URI of the new EI job and the message body shall carry the EiJobObject. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the message body may contain additional error information. The A1-EI Consumer may subscribe to EI job status notifications related to the created EI job. EI job status notifications are subscribed to by including the jobStatusNotificationUri in the EiJobObject. On reception of an eiTypeId that does not exist, "404 Not Found" shall be returned. On failure to validate the EiJobObject, "400 Bad Request" shall be returned. In case the new EI job would be identical to, or would be overlapping or conflicting with, an existing EI job, "409 Conflict" shall be returned.

##### 5.3.4.3.2 Create EI job procedure
The procedure to create EI job is based on the Create EI job operation illustrated in figure 5.3.4.3.1-1.

#### 5.3.4.4 Update EI job

##### 5.3.4.4.1 General
The A1-EI Consumer uses the Update EI job operation to update an EI job. The operation to update a single EI job is based on HTTP PUT. The EI job to be updated is identified with a URI that includes the eiJobId and the message body contains the EiJobObject for the updated EI job.
> NOTE: In case an EI job does not exist for the provided URI, the PUT request is handled as for Create EI job (see clause
5.3.4.3.1). A A - - E E

# I P

# I P
r r o o d d u u c c e e r r

# 0 0
b s O / { K e iJo b (E iJo Id } b O ( b E iJ o je c t b ) O b je c t ) A A - - E E

# I C

# I C
o o n n s s u u m m e e r r 1) The A1-EI Consumer shall send an HTTP PUT request to the A1-EI Producer. The target URI shall identify the EI job to be updated based on the eiJobId under the resource "/eijobs". The message body shall contain an EiJobObject. 2) The A1-EI Producer shall return the HTTP PUT response. On success, "200 OK" shall be returned. The message body shall carry an EiJobObject representing the updated EI job. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message body may contain additional error information. The A1-EI Consumer may subscribe to EI job status notifications related to the updated EI job. EI job status notifications are subscribed to by including the jobStatusNotificationUri in the EiJobObject. The A1-EI Consumer may change the jobStatusNotificationUri for EI job status notifications in an update EI job request. The A1-EI Consumer may cancel EI job status notifications. EI job status notifications are cancelled by omitting jobStatusNotificationUri in the EiJobObject. On failure to validate the EiJobObject, "400 Bad Request" shall be returned. In case the EI job after update would be identical to, or would be overlapping or conflicting with, an existing EI job, "409 Conflict" shall be returned.

##### 5.3.4.4.2 Update EI job procedure
The procedure to update EI job is based on the Update EI job operation illustrated in figure 5.3.4.4.1-1.

#### 5.3.4.5 Query EI job

##### 5.3.4.5.1 General
The A1-EI Consumer uses the Query EI job operation to read an EI job. The operation to query an EI job is based on HTTP GET. The EI job to be read is identified with a URI that includes the eiJobId while the message body is empty, and the response returns the EI job object. A A - - E E

# I P

# I P
r r o o d d u u c c e e r r

# G E T ...
. 2 0 0 O / e K ijo ( E b iJ s o / b { e O iJ b o b je c Id t ) } A A - - E E

# I C

# I C
o o n n s s u u m m e e r r 1) The A1-EI Consumer shall send an HTTP GET request to the A1-EI Producer. The target URI shall identify the EI job to be read based on the eiJobId under the resource "/eijobs". The message body shall be empty. 2) The A1-EI Producer shall return the HTTP GET response. On success, "200 OK" shall be returned. The message body shall carry an EiJobObject representing the read EI job. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message body may contain additional error information. On reception of eiJobId for which no EI job exists, "404 Not Found" shall be returned.

##### 5.3.4.5.2 Query EI job procedure
The procedure to query EI job is based on the Query EI job operation illustrated in figure 5.3.4.5.1-1.

#### 5.3.4.6 Delete EI job

##### 5.3.4.6.1 General
The A1-EI Consumer uses the Delete EI job operation to delete an EI job. The operation to delete an EI job s based on HTTP DELETE. The EI job to be deleted is identified with a URI that includes the eiJobId. Neither request nor response contain any EI job object in the message body. A A - - E E

# I P

# I P
r r o o d d u u c c e e r r

# 4 N
e o ijo c b o s n / t { e e n iJ t o b Id } A A - - E E

# I C

# I C
o o n n s s u u m m e e r r 1) The A1-EI Consumer shall send an HTTP DELETE request to the A1-EI Producer. The target URI shall identify the EI job to be deleted based on the eiJobId under the resource "/eijobs". The message body shall be empty. 2) The A1-EI Producer shall return the HTTP DELETE response. On success, "204 No Content" shall be returned. The message body shall be empty. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message body may contain additional error information. On reception of eiJobId for which no EI job exists, "404 Not Found" shall be returned.

##### 5.3.4.6.2 Delete EI job procedure
The procedure to delete EI job is based on the Delete EI job operation illustrated in figure 5.3.4.6.1-1.

#### 5.3.4.7 Query EI job status

##### 5.3.4.7.1 General
The A1-EI Consumer uses the Query EI job status operation to query the status of an EI job. The operation to query status for an EI job is based on HTTP GET. The EI job for which status is to be read is identified with a URI that includes the eiJobId while the message body is empty, and the response returns an EI job status object. A1-EI Producer A1-EI Consumer 1. GET .../eijobs/{eiJobId}/status 2. 200 OK (EiJobStatusObject) A1-EI Producer A1-EI Consumer 1) The A1-EI Consumer shall send an HTTP GET request to the A1-EI Producer. The target URI shall identify the EI job for which status is to be read based on the eiJobId under the resource "/eijobs". The message body shall be empty. 2) The A1-EI Producer shall return the HTTP GET response. On success, "200 OK" shall be returned. The message body shall carry an EI job status object representing the status of the EI job. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message body may contain additional error information. On reception of eiJobId for which no EI job status exists, "404 Not Found" shall be returned.

##### 5.3.4.7.2 Query EI job status procedure
The procedure to query EI job status is based on the Query EI job status operation illustrated in figure 5.3.4.7.1-1.

#### 5.3.4.8 Notify EI job status

##### 5.3.4.8.1 General
The A1-EI Producer uses the Notify EI job status operation to notify the A1-EI Consumer about changes in status of an EI job. All notifications are sent to the URI for notification handling provided during EI job creation and the EiJobStatusObject contains the information about the status of the EI job. The operation to notify EI job status is based on HTTP POST. The URI contains the target resource for EI job status notification handling. The notification content is represented in an EI job status object that is included in the message body. A1-EI Producer A1-EI Consumer 1. POST {jobStatusNotificationUri} (EiJobStatusObject) 2. 204 No Content A1-EI Producer A1-EI Consumer 1) The A1-EI Producer shall send an HTTP POST request to the A1-EI Consumer. The target URI (jobStatusNotificationUri) identifies the sink for EI job status notifications. The message body shall contain an EI job status object. 2) The A1-EI Consumer shall return the HTTP POST response with "204 No Content". The response message body shall be empty. On failure to validate the EiJobStatusObject fails, "400 Bad Request" shall be returned, and the response message body may contain additional error information.

##### 5.3.4.8.2 Notify EI job status procedure
The procedure to notify EI job status is based on the Notify EI job status operation illustrated in figure 5.3.4.8.1-1.

### 5.3.5 Service operations for A1 EI job result

#### 5.3.5.1 Introduction
and the mandatory HTTP status codes. Service operation HTTP method HTTP status codes Deliver EI job result POST 204, 400 The following clauses describe the A1 EI job result operations. For further information on the EI job result objects transferred in the HTTP message bodies, see A1TD [4], clause 8.4.4. The purpose of the A1EI job result operations is to enable the A1-EI Producer to deliver EI job results according to the service description agreed during job creation. The URL to which the EI job result is delivered is transferred from the A1-EI consumer in the EI job object.

#### 5.3.5.2 Deliver EI job result

##### 5.3.5.2.1 General
The A1-EI Producer uses the Deliver EI job result operation to deliver EI job results using push-based method. The push-based delivery method of EI is based on subscribe-notify paradigm where the EI job creation corresponds to the subscription and the delivery of EI job result is made using HTTP POST in the same way as notifications. As specified in the EI job definition, the EI job results can be delivered in a single push or in several that are repeated with regular intervals or irregularly based on events. The operation to deliver EI job result is based on HTTP POST. The URI contains the target resource for EI job result handling. The delivered content is represented by an EI job result object. A1-EI Producer A1-EI Consumer 1. POST {jobResultUri} (EIJobResultObject) 2. 204 No Content A1-EI Producer A1-EI Consumer 1) The A1-EI Producer shall send an HTTP POST request to the A1-EI Consumer. The target URI (jobResultUri) identifies the sink for EI job result deliveries. The message body shall contain an EI job result object. 2) The A1-EI Consumer shall return the HTTP POST response with "204 No Content". The response message body shall be empty. On failure to validate the EiJobResultObject fails, "400 Bad Request" shall be returned, and the response message body may contain additional error information.

##### 5.3.5.2.2 Deliver EI job result procedure
The procedure to deliver EI job result is based on the Deliver EI job result operation illustrated in figure 5.3.5.2.1-1.

## 5.4 ML model management service

### 5.4.1 Introduction
The A1-ML service defines service operations that are used for two sets of use cases, Near-RT RIC as A1-ML Consumer and Non-RT RIC as A1-ML Consumer, as specified in A1UCR [1], clauses 8 and 9.

### 5.4.2 Service description

#### 5.4.2.1 Functional elements
The A1 application protocol for A1-ML is based on signalling between the A1-ML Consumer residing in the Near-RT RIC and the A1-ML Producer residing in the Non-RT RIC, as well as signalling between the A1-ML Consumer residing in the Non-RT RIC and the A1-ML Producer residing in the Near-RT RIC. Both the A1-ML Consumer and the A1-ML Producer contain an HTTP Client and an HTTP Server. tra tra tra ininin ininin ggg -jo -jo -jo bbb sss // {tra {tra inin inin gg JoJo bb IdId }}/ s ta tu s D G

# P O

# E LE
EST TTE A A - - M M L H H L P T T C r T T o o P P n d u c e r S e r v e C lie n s u m e r t r H H T T T T P P C S lie n e r v e t r

# P O ST
> NOTE: Arrows indicate direction of HTTP requests sent from HTTP Client to HTTP Server and HTTP responses sent
from HTTP Server to HTTP Client. The present document specifies the A1 ML model procedures defined in A1GAP [2], clause 6.4 using HTTP operations in accordance with A1TP [3], clause 8.

#### 5.4.2.2 Principles for ML model management
The following principles are used for A1 ML model management:
- the A1-ML Producer indicates the AI/ML capabilities that are available;
- a training job can be created for an available training capability;
- a training job corresponds to a resource (in the REST sense);
- a training job is identified by a training job identifier;
- the training job identifier is assigned by the A1-ML Producer when the training job is created;
- status for a specific training job can be queried, and notifications can be subscribed to when the training job is
requested by providing a callback URI in the create training job operation.

#### 5.3.2.3 Representation objects
The following JSON objects are used within the service operations of the A1-ML service: ProblemDetails The problem details object is the JSON representation of the content in a response message with other HTTP error response codes (4xx/5xx).

#### 5.4.2.4 Resource identifiers
The URI for ML model training jobs is: …/training-jobs A single training job is identified by adding the value of the training identifier the URI: …/training-jobs/{trainingJobId} The URI for status of a single training job is: …/training-jobs/{trainingJobId}/status The URI for training job status notification is referred to as the trainingJobStatusNotificationUri and is a callback URI provided when creating a training job.

### 5.4.3 Service operations for A1 ML model management

#### 5.4.3.1 Introduction
realise them, and the mandatory HTTP status codes. Service operation HTTP method HTTP status codes Create AI/ML model training job POST 201,400 Cancel AI/ML model training job DELETE 200, 404 Query AI/ML model training job status GET 200,404

#### 5.4.3.2 Create AI/ML model training job

##### 5.4.3.2.1 General
The A1-ML Consumer uses this operation to create AI/ML model training job. The operation to create AI/ML model training job is based on HTTP POST. A A - - M M L L C C o o n n s s u u m m e e r r

# S T
. 2 0 tr

# 6 API Definitions

## 6.1 Introduction

### 6.1.1 Encoding of attributes in A1 data types
Identifiers and parameters that have been defined as integers are, when used over the A1 interface, encoded as JSON "number". Identifiers and parameters that have a hexadecimal or octet string representation are, when used over the A1 interface, encoded as JSON "string" with character ordering preserved and zeros filling rules followed.

### 6.1.2 Compatibility of API versions for A1 services
The API name for each of the A1 services is defined in the following clauses. The API version number is visible in the OpenAPI document in Annex A where the major field is defined in the following clauses. Based on the versioning rules defined by SemVer [8], this implies that implementations of an A1 service in the Non/Near-RT RICs are
- compatible if the major field of the API version numbers are the same and any difference between the sets of
supported features is handled within the API version itself; or
- not compatible in case the major field of the API version numbers are different.
The history of the introduction of an A1 service, and new API versions, is captured in the Change History clause of the present document. The services and API versions specified in the present document are summarized in clause A.1.2.
> NOTE: Non/Near-RT RIC products that implement different API versions of an A1 service can be made compatible as it
is possible to support several versions of an API at the same time where the different versions are addressed by separate URIs.

### 6.1.3 URI structure
The URI structure of APIs for A1 services is based on the design principles in 3GPP TS 29.501 [6], clause 4.4.1 where "apiName" is the name of the API and "apiVersion" indicates the major field of the API version number.

## 6.2 A1-P (policy management)

### 6.2.1 Introduction
This clause contains the definition of the REST based API for the A1 policy management service. The name of the API is A1-P and for the API version defined in the present document the major field of the API version number is 2. Based on the URI structure defined in 3GPP TS 29.501 [6], clause 4.4.1 the request URI used in HTTP request from the A1-P consumer towards the A1-P producer shall have the following structure: {apiRoot}/A1-P/v2/<ResourceUriPart> where the "ResourceUriPart" shall be as defined in clause 6.2.3.

### 6.2.2 Usage of HTTP

#### 6.2.2.1 General
The A1 Transport, HTTP protocol and security requirements, is described in A1TP [3].

#### 6.2.2.2 HTTP standard headers
Encodings and applicable MIME media type for the related Content-Type header are not specified in this version of the present document.

#### 6.2.2.3 HTTP custom headers
No HTTP custom headers are specified in this version of the present document.

### 6.2.3 Resources

#### 6.2.3.1 Overview

##### 6.2.3.1.1 Resource URI structure
The resource URI structure for the A1-P API is illustrated in figure 6.2.3.1.1-1. {apiRoot}/A1-P/v2 /policytypes /{policyTypeId} /policies /{policyId} /status

##### 6.2.3.1.2 Resources and methods
HTTP method or Resource name Resource URI custom Description operation All Policy Type /policytypes GET Query all policy type identifiers Identifiers Individual Policy /policytypes/{policyTypeId} GET Query single policy type Type Object Individual Policy /policytypes/{policyTypeId}/policies/{policyId} PUT Create single policy, Update single policy Object GET Query single policy DELETE Delete single policy Individual Policy /policytypes/{policyTypeId}/policies/{policyId}/status GET Query policy status Status Object All Policy /policytypes/{policyTypeId}/policies GET Query all policy identifiers Identifiers For each combination of a resource and an HTTP method in table 6.2.3.1.2-1, the HTTP status codes are as defined for the A1 policy procedures listed in the Description column and defined in clauses 5.2.3 and 5.2.4. For any other combination of a resource defined for this API and an HTTP method, including those HTTP methods that are not defined for this API, the HTTP status code 405 (Method Not Allowed) shall be used to indicate that the method is not supported on the resource.

##### 6.2.3.1.3 Policy type identifier
The PolicyTypeId is constructed based on two parts separated by "_" (underscore): typename_version where typename is the unique label of the policy type; version is the version of the policy type defined as major.minor.patch as described in SemVer [8]. The typename and version is assigned, and their uniqueness ensured, by the organizational entity that is responsible for the definition and maintenance of the policy type definition.
> NOTE: The typename can be based on a prefix that indicates the organizational entity (e.g. O-RAN or a company
designator) and a text string that can be descriptive of the class, use case or variant of the policy type.

#### 6.2.3.2 Individual Policy Object

##### 6.2.3.2.0 General
The name of the resource is the PolicyId assigned by the A1-P Consumer when the policy is created.

##### 6.2.3.2.1 Description
The resource represents an A1 policy.

##### 6.2.3.2.2 Resource Definition
The Resource URI and the supported resource variables are as defined in previous clauses.

##### 6.2.3.2.3 Resource Standard Methods
6.2.3.2.3.1 HTTP PUT This method shall support the request data structures specified in table 6.2.3.2.3.1-1 and the response data structures and response codes specified in table 6.2.3.2.3.1-2. Data type P Cardinality Description PolicyObject M 1 Create policy Data type P Cardinality Response Description codes PolicyObject M 1 201 Created Confirmation of created or updated policy

# 200 OK
ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx Detailed problem description This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table 6.2.3.2.3.1-3. Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability notificationDestination string O 0..1 Transfer of URL for notifications Status notifications This method shall support the response headers specified in table 6.2.3.2.3.1-4. Name Data P Cardinality Description type Location string M 1 Contains the URI of the newly created resource 6.2.3.2.3.2 HTTP GET This method shall support the request data structures specified in table 6.2.3.2.3.2-1 and the response data structures and response codes specified in table 6.2.3.2.3.2-2. Data type P Cardinality Description N/A 0 There is no object in the message body of a GET request Data type P Cardinality Response Description codes PolicyObject M 1 200 OK Requested policy object ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx Detailed problem description 6.2.3.2.3.3 HTTP DELETE This method shall support the request data structures specified in table 6.2.3.2.3.3-1 and the response data structures and response codes specified in table 6.2.3.2.3.3-2. Data type P Cardinality Description N/A There is no object in the message body of a DELETE request Data type P Cardinality Response Description codes N/A 204 No content Confirmation of successful deletion ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx Detailed problem description 6.2.3.2.3.4 HTTP POST This method is not supported on the resource.

##### 6.2.3.2.4 Resource Custom Operations
No custom operations are defined.

#### 6.2.3.3 Individual Policy Status Object

##### 6.2.3.3.1 Description
The resource represents the status of an A1 policy.

##### 6.2.3.3.2 Resource Definition
The Resource URI and the supported resource variables are as defined in previous clauses.

##### 6.2.3.3.3 Resource Standard Methods
6.2.3.3.3.1 HTTP PUT Method is not supported on this resource. 6.2.3.3.3.2 HTTP GET This method shall support the request data structures specified in table 6.2.3.3.3.2-1 and the response data structures and response codes specified in table 6.2.3.3.3.2-2. Data type P Cardinality Description N/A There is no object in the message body of a GET request Data type P Cardinality Response Description codes PolicyStatusObject M 1 200 OK Requested policy status object ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx Detailed problem description 6.2.3.3.3.3 HTTP DELETE Method is not supported on this resource. 6.2.3.3.3.4 HTTP POST Method is not supported on this resource.

##### 6.2.3.3.4 Resource Custom Operations
No custom operations are defined.

#### 6.2.3.4 All Policy Identifiers

##### 6.2.3.4.1 Description
The resource represents A1 policy identifiers.

##### 6.2.3.4.2 Resource Definition
The Resource URI and the supported resource variables are as defined in previous clauses.

##### 6.2.3.4.3 Resource Standard Methods
6.2.3.4.3.1 HTTP PUT Method is not supported on this resource. 6.2.3.4.3.2 HTTP GET This method shall support the request data structures specified in table 6.2.3.6.3.2-1 and the response data structures and response codes specified in table 6.2.3.6.3.2-2. Data type P Cardinality Description N/A There is no object in the message body of a GET request Data type P Cardinality Response Description codes array(PolicyId) M 0..N 200 OK All policy identifiers ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx Detailed problem description 6.2.3.4.3.3 HTTP DELETE Method is not supported on this resource. 6.2.3.4.3.4 HTTP POST Method is not supported on this resource.

##### 6.2.3.4.4 Resource Custom Operations
No custom operations are defined.

#### 6.2.3.5 All Policy Type Identifiers

##### 6.2.3.5.1 Description
The resource represents A1 policy type identifiers.

##### 6.2.3.5.2 Resource Definition
The Resource URI and the supported resource variables are as defined in previous clauses.

##### 6.2.3.5.3 Resource Standard Methods
6.2.3.5.3.1 HTTP PUT Method is not supported on this resource. 6.2.3.5.3.2 HTTP GET This method shall support the request data structures specified in table 6.2.3.5.3.2-1 and the response data structures and response codes specified in table 6.2.3.5.3.2-2. Data type P Cardinality Description N/A There is no object in the message body of a GET request Data type P Cardinality Response Description codes array(PolicyTypeId) M 0..N 200 OK All policy type identifiers ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx Detailed problem description 6.2.3.5.3.3 HTTP DELETE Method is not supported on this resource. 6.2.3.5.3.4 HTTP POST Method is not supported on this resource.

##### 6.2.3.5.4 Resource Custom Operations
No custom operations are defined.

#### 6.2.3.6 Individual Policy Type Object

##### 6.2.3.6.1 Description
The resource represents an A1 policy type.

##### 6.2.3.6.2 Resource Definition
The Resource URI and the supported resource variables are as defined in previous clauses.

##### 6.2.3.6.3 Resource Standard Methods
6.2.3.6.3.1 HTTP PUT Method is not supported on this resource. 6.2.3.6.3.2 HTTP GET This method shall support the request data structures specified in table 6.2.3.6.3.2-1 and the response data structures and response codes specified in table 6.2.3.6.3.2-2. Data type P Cardinality Description N/A There is no object in the message body of a GET request Data type P Cardinality Response Description codes PolicyTypeObject M 1 200 OK Requested policy type object ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx Detailed problem description 6.2.3.6.3.3 HTTP DELETE This method is not supported on the resource. 6.2.3.6.3.4 HTTP POST This method is not supported on the resource.

##### 6.2.3.6.4 Resource Custom Operations
No custom operations are defined.

### 6.2.4 Custom Operations without associated resources
No custom operations are defined.

### 6.2.5 Notifications

#### 6.2.5.0 General
Notification Callback URI HTTP method or custom operation Description Policy Status {notificationDestination} POST Notify policy status Notification For each combination of a callback URI and an HTTP method in table 6.2.5.0-1, the HTTP status codes are as defined for the procedure listed in the Description column and defined in clause 5.2.4.8.

#### 6.2.5.1 Policy Status Notification

##### 6.2.5.1.1 Description
The Policy Status Notification is used by the A1-P Producer to report status changes and feedback about an A1 policy to A1-P Consumer that has subscribed to such notifications.

##### 6.2.5.1.2 Target URI
The Callback URI "{notificationDestination}" shall be used with the callback URI variables defined in table 6.2.5.1.2-1. Name Definition notificationDestination String formatted as URI with the Callback Uri

##### 6.2.5.1.3 Standard Methods
6.2.5.1.3.1 HTTP PUT Method is not supported for this target URI. 6.2.5.1.3.2 HTTP GET Method is not supported for this target URI. 6.2.5.1.3.3 HTTP DELETE Method is not supported for this target URI. 6.2.5.1.3.4 HTTP POST This method shall support the request data structures specified in table 6.2.5.1.3.4-1 and the response data structures and response codes specified in table 6.2.5.1.3.4-2. Data type P Cardinality Description PolicyStatusObject M 1 Notify policy Data type P Cardinality Response codes Description N/A 204 No content Confirmation of received notification

### 6.2.6 Data Model

#### 6.2.6.1 Introduction
This clause specifies the application protocol data model supported by the A1-P API. The data model for the data types transported in the A1-P procedures is defined in A1TD [4], clause 6.

#### 6.2.6.2 Simple data types and enumerations

##### 6.2.6.2.1 Simple data types
The resource identifiers defined in clause 5.2.2.4 include policy type identifier and policy identifier based on the simple data types specified in table 6.2.6.2.1-1. Type Name Type Definition Description Applicability PolicyTypeId string policy type identifier assigned by the owner of a used in URI policy type definition (see A1TD [4], clause 7.1) PolicyId string policy identifier assigned by the A1-P Consumer used in URI when a policy is created (see clause 6.2.3.2.0)

#### 6.2.6.3 Structured data types

##### 6.2.6.3.1 Problem details
In case a policy request is not accepted, additional information can be provided in the response in addition to the HTTP error status code. The ProblemDetails statement specified in table 6.2.6.3.1-1 contains attributes defined in IETF RFC 9457 [10], clause 3.1: Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability type string O 0..1 a URI reference according to IETF RFC 3986 [9] that identifies the problem type title string O 0..1 human-readable summary of the problem type status number O 0..1 the HTTP status code detail string O 0..1 human-readable explanation instance string O 0..1 URI reference that identifies the specific occurrence of the problem

### 6.2.7 Error Handling

#### 6.2.7.1 General
HTTP error handling is specified based on 3GPP TS 29.500 [11], clause 5.2.4 and according to the principles in 3GPP TS 29.501 [6], clause 4.8.

#### 6.2.7.2 Protocol Errors
No protocol errors are described in the present document.

#### 6.2.7.3 Application Errors
The application errors defined for the A1-P service are listed in table 6.2.7.3-1. Application Error HTTP status code Description Bad Request 400 Used when the Near-RT RIC or the Non-RTR RIC cannot or will not process a request, e.g. when the validation of PolicyObject towards a policy type schema, or the validation of PolicyStatusObject towards a policy status schema, fails. Not Found 404 Used when the Near-RT RIC did not find a current representation for the resource representing a policy type or a policy, e.g. for a policy type that is not available or a policy that does not exist. Method Not Allowed 405 Used when the HTTP method is not supported by the resource defined for the A1-P API. Conflict 409 Used if the Near-RT RIC detects that a policy requested to be created or updated may be overlapping or conflicting with a policy that exists, e.g. if the policy in the request is identical to an existing policy. Application errors should be mapped to the most applicable 4xx/5xx HTTP error status code. If no such status code is applicable, one of the status codes 400 (Bad Request) or 500 (Internal Server Error) should be used. The HTTP status codes listed in table 6.2.7.3-1 shall be used as defined in clause 5.2.3 for the A1-P procedures and clause 6.2.3 for the resources. Implementations may use additional HTTP error status codes in addition to those listed in table 6.2.7.3-1, as long as they are valid HTTP status codes. A list of all valid HTTP status codes and their specification documents can be obtained from the HTTP status code registry [13]. In addition, the response body may contain a JSON representation of a "ProblemDetails" data structure in the payload body as defined in clause 6.2.6.3.1. In that case, as defined by IETF RFC 9457 [10], clause 3 the "Content-Type" HTTP header shall be set to "application/problem+json".

## 6.3 A1-EI (enrichment information)

### 6.3.1 Introduction
This clause contains the definition of the REST based API for the A1 enrichment information service. The name of the API is A1-EI and for the API version defined in the present document the major field of the API version number is 1. Based on the URI structure defined in 3GPP TS 29.501 [6], clause 4.4.1 the request URI used in HTTP request from the A1-EI consumer towards the A1-EI producer shall have the following structure: {apiRoot}/A1-EI/v1/<ResourceUriPart> where the "ResourceUriPart" shall be as defined in clause 6.3.3.

### 6.3.2 Usage of HTTP

#### 6.3.2.1 General
The A1 Transport, HTTP protocol and security requirements, is described in A1TP [3].

#### 6.3.2.2 HTTP standard headers
Encodings and applicable MIME media type for the related Content-Type header are not specified in this version of the present document.

#### 6.3.2.3 HTTP custom headers
No HTTP custom headers are specified in the present document.

### 6.3.3 Resources

#### 6.3.3.1 Overview

##### 6.3.3.1.1 Resource URI structure
The resource URI structure for the A1-EI API is illustrated in figure 6.3.3.1.1-1. {apiRoot}/A1-EI/v1 /eiTypes /{eiTypeId} /eiJobs /{eiJobId} /status

##### 6.3.3.1.2 Resources and methods
HTTP method Resource name Resource URI or custom Description operation All EI Type Identifiers /eitypes GET Query all EI type identifiers Individual EI Type /eitypes/{eiTypeId} GET Query EI type All EI Jobs /eijobs GET Query all EI job identifiers Individual EI Job /eijobs/{eiJobId} GET Query EI job PUT Create/Update EI job DELETE Delete EI job Individual EI Job Status /eijobs/{eiJobId}/status GET Query EI job status For each combination of a resource and an HTTP method in table 6.3.3.1.2-1, the HTTP status codes are as defined for the A1- EI procedures listed in the Description column and defined in clauses 5.3.3 to 5.3.5. For any other combination of a resource defined for this API and an HTTP method, including those HTTP methods that are not defined for this API, the HTTP status code 405 (Method Not Allowed) shall be used to indicate that the method is not supported on the resource.

##### 6.3.3.1.3 EI type identifier
The EiTypeId is constructed based on two parts separated by "_" (underscore): typename_version where typename is the unique label of the EI type; version is the version of the EI type defined as major.minor.patch as described in SemVer [8]. The typename and version is assigned, and their uniqueness ensured, by the organizational entity that is responsible for the definition and maintenance of the EI type definition.
> NOTE: The typename can be based on a prefix that indicates the organizational entity (e.g. O-RAN or a company
designator) and a text string that can be descriptive of the class, use case or variant of the EI type.

##### 6.3.3.1.4 EI job identifier
An EiJobId is assigned by the Near-RT RIC and is unique within the domain of operation of the Non-RT RIC.

#### 6.3.3.2 All EI Type Identifiers

##### 6.3.3.2.1 Description
The resource represents EI type identifiers.

##### 6.3.3.2.2 Resource Definition
The Resource URI and the supported resource variables are as defined in previous clauses.

##### 6.3.3.2.3 Resource Standard Methods
6.3.3.2.3.1 HTTP GET This method shall support the request data structures specified in table 6.3.3.2.3.1-1 and the response data structures and response codes specified in table 6.3.3.2.3.1-2. Data type P Cardinality Description N/A There is no object in the message body of a GET request Data type P Cardinality Response Description codes Array(EiTypeId) M 0..N 200 OK All EI type identifiers ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx Detailed problem description

##### 6.3.3.2.4 Resource Custom Operations
No custom operations are defined.

#### 6.3.3.3 Individual EI Type

##### 6.3.3.3.1 Description
The resource represents an EI type.

##### 6.3.3.3.2 Resource Definition
The Resource URI and the supported resource variables are as defined in previous clauses.

##### 6.3.3.3.3 Resource Standard Methods
6.3.3.3.3.1 HTTP GET This method shall support the request data structures specified in table 6.3.3.3.3.1-1 and the response data structures and response codes specified in table 6.3.3.3.3.1-2. Data type P Cardinality Description N/A There is no object in the message body of a GET request Data type P Cardinality Response Description codes EiTypeObject M 1 200 OK Requested EI type object ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx Detailed problem description

##### 6.3.3.3.4 Resource Custom Operations
No custom operations are defined.

#### 6.3.3.4 All EI Jobs

##### 6.3.3.4.1 Description
The resource represents EI job identifiers.

##### 6.3.3.4.2 Resource Definition
The Resource URI and the supported resource variables are as defined in previous clauses.

##### 6.3.3.4.3 Resource Standard Methods
6.3.3.4.3.1 HTTP GET This method shall support the request data structures specified in table 6.3.3.4.3.1-1 and the response data structures and response codes specified in table 6.3.3.4.3.1-2. Data type P Cardinality Description N/A There is no object in the message body of a GET request Data type P Cardinality Response Description codes array(EiJobId) M 0..N 200 OK All EI job identifiers ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx Detailed problem description This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table 6.3.3.4.3.1-3. Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability eiTypeId string O 0..1 eiTypeId for which EI Job Retrieve EI Job identifiers are requested identifiers for a certain EI Type

#### 6.3.3.5 Individual EI Job

##### 6.3.3.5.1 Description
The resource represents an EI job.

##### 6.3.3.5.2 Resource Definition
The Resource URI and the supported resource variables are as defined in previous clauses.

##### 6.3.3.5.3 Resource Standard Methods
6.3.3.5.3.1 HTTP PUT This method shall support the request data structures specified in table 6.3.3.5.3.1-1 and the response data structures and response codes specified in table 6.3.3.5.3.1-2. Data type P Cardinality Description EiJobObject M 1 Create or Update EI job Data type P Cardinality Response Description codes EiJobObject M 1 201 Created Confirmation of created or updated EI job

# 200 OK
ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx Detailed problem description This method shall support the response headers specified in table 6.3.3.5.3.1-3. Name Data P Cardinality Description type Location string M 1 Contains the URI of the newly created resource 6.3.3.5.3.2 HTTP GET This method shall support the request data structures specified in table 6.3.3.5.3.2-1 and the response data structures and response codes specified in table 6.3.3.5.3.2-2. Data type P Cardinality Description N/A There is no object in the message body of a GET request Data type P Cardinality Response Description codes EiJobObject M 1 200 OK Requested EI job object ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx Detailed problem description 6.3.3.5.3.3 HTTP DELETE This method shall support the request data structures specified in table 6.3.3.5.3.3-1 and the response data structures and response codes specified in table 6.3.3.5.3.3-2. Data type P Cardinality Description N/A There is no object in the message body of a DELETE request Data type P Cardinality Response Description codes N/A 204 No content Confirmation of successful deletion ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx Detailed problem description

##### 6.3.3.5.4 Resource Custom Operations
No custom operations are defined.

#### 6.3.3.6 Individual EI Job Status

##### 6.3.3.6.1 Description
The resource represents the status of an EI job.

##### 6.3.3.6.2 Resource Definition
The Resource URI and the supported resource variables are as defined in previous clauses.

##### 6.3.3.6.3 Resource Standard Methods
6.3.3.6.3.1 HTTP GET This method shall support the request data structures specified in table 6.3.3.6.3.1-1 and the response data structures and response codes specified in table 6.3.3.6.3.1-2. Data type P Cardinality Description N/A There is no object in the message body of a GET request Data type P Cardinality Response Description codes EiJobStatusObject M 1 200 OK Requested EI job status object ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx Detailed problem description

##### 6.2.3.3.4 Resource Custom Operations
No custom operations are defined.

### 6.3.4 Custom Operations without associated resources
No custom operations are defined.

### 6.3.5 Notifications

#### 6.3.5.0 General
Notification Callback URI HTTP method or custom operation Description EI Job Status {jobStatusNotificationUri} POST Notify EI job status Notification EI Job Result {jobResultUri} POST Deliver EI job result Delivery For each combination of a callback URI and an HTTP method in table 6.3.5.0-1, the HTTP status codes are as defined for the procedures listed in the Description column and defined in clauses 5.3.4.8 and 5.3.5.2.

#### 6.3.5.1 EI Job Status Notification

##### 6.3.5.1.1 Description
The EI Job Status Notification is used by the A1-EI Producer to report status changes about an EI job to an A1-EI Consumer that has subscribed to such notifications.

##### 6.3.5.1.2 Target URI
The Callback URI "{jobStatusNotificationUri}" shall be used with the callback URI variables defined in table 6.3.5.1.2-1. Name Definition jobStatusNotificationUri String formatted as URI with the Callback Uri

##### 6.3.5.1.3 Standard Methods
6.3.5.1.3.1 HTTP POST This method shall support the request data structures specified in table 6.3.5.1.3.1-1 and the response data structures and response codes specified in table 6.3.5.1.3.1-2. Data type P Cardinality Description EiJobStatusObject M 1 Notify EI job status Data type P Cardinality Response codes Description N/A 204 No content Confirmation of received notification

#### 6.3.5.2 EI Job Result Delivery

##### 6.3.5.2.1 Description
The EI Job Result Delivery is used by the A1-EI Producer to deliver results related to an EI job to an A1-EI Consumer that has created such job.

##### 6.3.5.2.2 Target URI
The Callback URI "{jobResultUri}" shall be used with the callback URI variables defined in table 6.3.5.2.2-1. Name Definition jobResultUri String formatted as URI with the Callback Uri

##### 6.3.5.2.3 Standard Methods
6.3.5.2.3.1 HTTP POST This method shall support the request data structures specified in table 6.3.5.2.3.1-1 and the response data structures and response codes specified in table 6.3.5.2.3.1-2. Data type P Cardinality Description EiJobResultObject M 1 Carry EI payload, i.e. the result from an EI job Data type P Cardinality Response codes Description N/A 204 No content Confirmation of received notification ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx Detailed problem description

### 6.3.6 Void

### 6.3.7 Data model

#### 6.3.7.1 Introduction
This clause specifies the application protocol data model supported by the A1-EI API. The data model for the data types transported in the A1-EI procedures is defined in A1TD [4], clause 8.

#### 6.3.7.2 Simple data types and enumerations

##### 6.3.7.2.1 Simple data types
The resource identifiers defined in clause 5.3.2.4 include EI type identifier or EI job identifier based on the simple data types specified in table 6.3.7.2.1-1. Type Name Type Definition Description Applicability EiTypeId string EI type identifier assigned by the owner of an EI used in URI type definition (see clause 6.3.3.1.3) EiJobId string EI job identifier assigned by the A1-EI Consumer used in URI when an EI job is created (see clause 6.3.3.1.4) Callback URI Type Definition Description Applicability jobStatusNotificationUri string target URI for EI job status provided in EI Job object and notifications used in job status notification procedure jobResultUri string target URI for EI job results provided in EI Job object and used in job result deliver procedure

#### 6.3.7.3 Structured data types

##### 6.3.7.3.1 Problem details
The problem details statement is the same as defined for A1-P, see clause 6.2.6.3.1.

### 6.3.8 Error handling

#### 6.3.8.1 General
HTTP error handling is specified based on 3GPP TS 29.500 [11], clause 5.2.4 and according to the principles in 3GPP TS 29.501 [6], clause 4.8.

#### 6.3.8.2 Protocol Errors
No protocol errors are described in this version of the present document.

#### 6.3.8.3 Application Errors
The application errors defined for the A1-EI service are listed in table 6.3.8.3-1. Application Error HTTP status code Description Bad Request 400 Used when the Near-RT RIC or the Non-RTR RIC cannot or will not process a request, e.g. when the validation of an object towards a schema, fails. Not Found 404 Used when the Non-RT RIC did not find a current representation for the resource representing an EI type or an EI job. Method Not Allowed 405 Used when the HTTP method is not supported by the resource defined for the A1-EI API. Conflict 409 Used if the Non-RT RIC detects that an EI job requested to be created or updated may be overlapping or conflicting with an EI job that exists. Application errors should be mapped to the most applicable 4xx/5xx HTTP error status code. If no such status code is applicable, one of the status codes 400 (Bad Request) or 500 (Internal Server Error) should be used. The HTTP status codes listed in table 6.3.8.3-1 shall be used as defined in clauses 5.3.3 to5.3.5 for the A1-EI procedures and clause 5.3.3 for the resources. Implementations may use additional HTTP error status codes in addition to those listed in table 6.3.8.3-1, as long as they are valid HTTP status codes. A list of all valid HTTP status codes and their specification documents can be obtained from the HTTP status code registry [13]. In addition, the response body may contain a JSON representation of a "ProblemDetails" data structure in the payload body as defined in clause 6.2.6.3.1. In that case, as defined by IETF RFC 9457 [10], clause 3 the "Content-Type" HTTP header shall be set to "application/problem+json".

## 6.4 A1-ML

### 6.4.1 Introduction
This clause contains the definition of the REST based API for the A1 ML model management Service referred to as A1-ML. The present document defines API version 1 (v1) of the A1-ML API. Based on the URI structure defined in 3GPP TS 29.501 [6], clause 4.4.1 the request URI used in HTTP request from the A1- ML consumer towards the A1-ML producer shall have the following structure: {apiRoot}/a1-ml/v1/<ResourceUriPart> where the "ResourceUriPart" shall be as be defined in clause 6.3.3.

### 6.4.2 Usage of HTTP

#### 6.4.2.1 General
The A1 Transport, HTTP protocol and security requirements, is described in A1TP [3].

#### 6.4.2.2 HTTP standard headers
Encodings and applicable MIME media type for the related Content-Type header are not specified in this version of the present document.

#### 6.4.2.3 HTTP custom headers
No HTTP custom headers are specified in the present document.

### 6.4.3 Resources

#### 6.4.3.1 Overview

##### 6.4.3.1.1 Resource URI structure
The resource URI structure for the A1-ML API is illustrated in figure 6.4.3.1.1-1. { a p iR o o t } / a 1 /
- m
t r a l/ v in in g - j o b / s { t r a in in g J o b Id } / s t a t u s

##### 6.4.3.1.2 Resources and methods
Resource name Resource URI HTTP Description method or custom operation All AI/ML model training /training-jobs POST Create AI/ML model jobs training job Individual AI/ML model /training-jobs/{trainingJobId} DELETE Cancel AI/ML model training job training job Individual AI/ML model /training-jobs/{trainingJobId}/status GET Query AI/ML model training job status training job status


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG2.TS.A1GAP-R004-v05.02.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG2.TS.A1GAP-R004-v05.02 Technical Specification"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.2], clause 3, the O-RAN specifications Non- RT RIC & A1/R1 Interface: Use Cases and Requirements [2], clause 3.1, Non-RT RIC: Architecture [i.3], clause 3.1, O-RAN Architecture Description [4], clause 3.1, and the following apply: A1 enrichment information: enrichment information that is collected or derived at SMO/Non-RT RIC either from non- network data sources or from network functions themselves and provided over the A1 interface to be utilized by Near-RT RIC.
> NOTE 1: A1 enrichment information is either not directly available to Near-RT RIC from O-RAN network functions via
standardized interfaces or cannot be derived in Near-RT RIC from network function data due to processing or storage constraints.
> NOTE 2: Inferred/modelled information elements that can be provided over O1-CM is not considered as A1 enrichment
information. A1 interface: interface between Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC. A1 policy: declarative policy expressed using formal statements that enable the Non-RT RIC function in the SMO to guide the Near-RT RIC function, and hence the RAN, towards better fulfilment of the RAN intent. A1 policy type: formal schema-based definition of how an A1 policy, and its status, is expressed and validated. available A1 policy type: A1 policy type for which the policy type identifier can be discovered, and policy type information and policy type status can be queried, over the A1 interface. available EI type: EI type for which the EI type identifier can be discovered, and EI type information and EI type status can be queried, over the A1 interface. declarative policy: type of policy that uses statements to express the goals of the policy, but not how to accomplish those goals. EI job: request for delivery of A1 enrichment information expressed using formal statements. EI type: formal schema-based definition of how request and result deliveries for A1 enrichment information, and the status and constraints related to an EI job, is expressed and validated. enrichment information: information provided to an entity, in addition to the information that is generally available to it, in order to enhance the performance of its tasks.
> NOTE: The availability or usage of enrichment information is not critical for the entity to be able to perform its tasks.
External enrichment information: information provided by an O-RAN external information source through a direct and secure connection with Near-RT RIC.
> NOTE: Detailed specification of a direct interface for external enrichment information is out of scope of the present
document. policy: set of rules that are used to manage and control the changing and/or maintaining of the state of one or more managed objects. policy objectives: statements with the objective to reach the goal of the policy. policy resources: statements expressing the use of resources. RAN intent: expression of high-level operational or business goals to be achieved by the radio access network, allowing an operator to specify the desired SLAs that RAN needs to fulfil for all or a class of users in a given area over a period of time.
> NOTE: RAN intent is not in A1 scope.

## 3.2 Symbols
Void.

## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.2], clause 4, the O-RAN specifications Non-RT RIC & A1/R1 Interface: Use Cases and Requirements [2], clause 3.3, Non-RT RIC: Architecture [i.3], clause 3.3, O-RAN Architecture Description [4], clause 3.3, and the following apply: A1-EI A1 Enrichment Information service A1-ML A1 ML model management service A1-P A1 Policy management service BSS Business Support System EI Enrichment Information IP Internet Protocol JSON JavaScript Object Notation HTTP Hypertext Transfer Protocol KPI Key Performance Indicator KQI Key Quality Indicator QoS Quality of Service QoE Quality of Experience RIC RAN Intelligent Controller SLA Service Level Agreement SMO Service Management and Orchestration TCP Transmission Control Protocol TLS Transport Layer Security UE User Equipment

# 4 General Aspects

## 4.1 A1 architecture

### 4.1.1 General
O-RAN Architecture Description [4] includes a Non-RT RIC and a Near-RT RIC which are connected through the A1 interface as shown in figure 4.1.1-1. Non-RT RIC A1 Near-RT RIC

### 4.1.2 Role of A1 in the O-RAN architecture
The Non-RT RIC function resides in the SMO layer as described in O-RAN Architecture Description [4]. that also handles deployment, configuration, and data collection from RAN nodes. In the SMO layer there also resides functions that handle AI/ML workflow, e.g. training and update of ML models, as well as functions for deployment of ML models and other applications as described in AI/ML workflow description and requirements The SMO Layer may also have access to data other than that available in the RAN network functions and this enrichment information can be used to enhance the RAN guidance and optimization functions. One purpose of the SMO layer is to optimize the RAN performance towards fulfilment of the SLAs in the RAN intent. The purpose of the A1 interface is to enable the Non-RT RIC function to provide policy-based guidance, support for AI/ML workflows, and enrichment information to the Near-RT RIC function so that the RAN can optimize e.g. RRM under certain conditions.

# S M
O O

# R A N in N
N te o e E n t n - R a r - R n o T A T E d R R e IC IC s E n D e ric In fo rm a t io n liv e ry o f E x te rn h m e n t In fo r m a

# O -R A N in te rn
in fo rm a tio n s o u rc e s

# O -Rin
a l tio n a l

# A N e x te r
fo rm a tio s o u rc e s nn a l The E2 nodes in figure 4.1.2-1 refers to RAN nodes such as an O-CU-CP, an O-CU-UP, an O-DU or an O-eNB. A1 policies and A1 enrichment information derived from various (O-RAN internal and O-RAN external) sources, are provided by the Non-RT RIC to the Near-RT RIC via the A1 interface.

### 4.1.3 A1 service architecture

#### 4.1.3.1 A1 policy management service (A1-P)
The A1 policy management service (A1-P), and the policy related procedures listed in clause 6.2, are defined for communication between an A1-P service consumer referred to as A1-P Consumer and an A1-P service producer referred to as A1-P Producer. SMO/Non-RT RIC framework takes the role of A1-P Consumer and Near-RT RIC takes the role of A1-P Producer as illustrated in figure 4.1.3.1-1. S N M e O a r / N
- R
o T n R
- R
IC

# T R IC fr a m

# A 1 - P
C o n s u m A

# A 1 - P
P r o d u c e w e r

#### 4.1.3.2 A1 enrichment information service (A1-EI)
The A1 enrichment information service (A1-EI), and the enrichment information transfer procedures listed in clause 6.3, are defined for communication between an A1-EI service consumer referred to as A1-EI Consumer and an A1-EI service producer referred to as A1-EI Producer. SMO/Non-RT RIC framework RIC takes the role of A1-EI Producer and Near-RT RIC takes the role of A1-P Consumer as illustrated in figure 4.1.3.2-1. SMO/Non-RT RIC framework A1-EI Producer A1-EI A1-EI Consumer Near-RT RIC Enrichment information is generically defined as information provided to an entity, in addition to the information that is generally available to it, in order to enhance the performance of its tasks. It can be produced based on information from one or more sources, e.g. by relaying, combining, refining or analysing information from the input source(s). In O-RAN Architecture Description [4] it is described that external systems can provide enrichment data to the SMO. This is referred to as "O-RAN external information sources" while the network functions in the RAN are examples of "O-RAN internal information sources". SMO can collect information from O-RAN internal and O-RAN external information sources. Based on this information, Non- RT RIC can derive information that could be beneficial for both Non-RT RIC and/or Near-RT RIC internal functions or applications, e.g. an ML model, to improve its performance. In relation to the A1 interface, two types of enrichment information are distinguished: A1 enrichment information and external enrichment information. The A1 interface is used for discovery, request, and delivery of A1 enrichment information. The A1 interface is also used for the discovery of external enrichment information and the SMO / Non-RT RIC is responsible for the authentication of the source and the security of the direct connection.
> NOTE: The handling of direct connections, and discovery or delivery of external enrichment information involving the
A1 interface is not defined in the present document.

#### 4.1.3.3 A1 ML model management service (A1-ML)
The A1 ML model management service (A1-ML), and the ML model related procedures listed in clause 6.4, are defined for communication between an A1-ML service consumer referred to as A1-ML Consumer and an A1-ML service producer referred to as A1-ML Producer. Depending on the use case, SMO/Non-RT RIC framework takes the role of A1-ML Producer and Near-RT RIC takes the role of A1-ML Consumer, or SMO/Non-RT RIC framework takes the role of A1-ML Consumer and Near-RT RIC takes the role of A1-ML Producer, as illustrated in figure 4.1.3.3-1. SMO/Non-RT RIC framework A1-ML A1-ML Producer Consumer A1-ML A1-ML A1-ML Consumer Producer Near-RT RIC The A1-ML service supports AI/ML workflows between SMO/Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC. SMO/Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC can exchange AI/ML model training related messages via A1 interface.

## 4.2 A1 interface general principles
The general principles for the specification of the A1 interface are as follows:
- the A1 interface is an open logical interface within O-RAN architecture between the Non-RT RIC functionality in
the SMO and the Near-RT RIC functionality in the RAN;
- the A1 interface enables a multi-vendor environment and is independent of specific implementations of the SMO,
Non-RT RIC, and Near-RT RIC;
- the A1 interface is defined in an extensible way that enables new services and data types to be added without
needing to change the protocol stack or the procedures;
- the A1 interface enables policy-based guidance (objective, resource) of radio resource management internal
functions or applications that are part of Near-RT RIC;
- the A1 interface enable mechanisms for Near-RT RIC to provide status and feedback information regarding
enforcement of A1 policies to Non-RT RIC;
- the policy enforcement service in Near-RT RIC requires that the policies transferred over A1 interface are
expressed using a standardized mechanism (language, syntax, etc.);
- the A1 interface enables transmission of A1 enrichment information from Non-RT RIC to Near-RT RIC as needed
by Near-RT RIC;
- the A1 interface enables Near-RT to discover available enrichment information for which secure delivery can be
provided, and to request delivery of enrichment information;
- A1 policies are created, modified, and deleted by the Non-RT RIC;
- the A1 policies are enforced until deleted and it is the responsibility of Non-RT RIC to create and delete policies
based on context information e.g. observability from RAN indicating RAN intent fulfilment received over O1;
- EI jobs are created, modified, and deleted by the Near-RT RIC based on the needs of its internal functions;
- the Non-RT RIC delivers A1 enrichment information to the Near-RT RIC according to an EI job as long as the EI
job is enabled and until it is deleted; and
- the A1 interface enables mechanisms for SMO/Non-RT RIC to exchange AI/ML model training related messages
with Near-RT RIC.

## 4.3 A1 interface specification objectives
The A1 interface specification facilitates the following:
- inter-connection of Non-RT RIC functionality in the SMO with Near-RT RIC functionality in the Radio Access
Network supplied by different manufacturers;
- provision of policies for individual UEs or groups of UEs, or for individual cells or group of cells;
- provision of status and feedback from Near-RT RIC that enables Non-RT RIC to monitor the enforcement of
policies;
- provision of enrichment information as requested by Near-RT RIC; and
- exchange of AI/ML model training related messages between SMO/Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC.

## 4.4 A1 interface capabilities
As described in Non-RT RIC & A1/R1 Interface: Use Cases and Requirements [2], the A1 interface supports:
- transfer of policy management information from Non-RT RIC to Near-RT RIC;
- policy status and feedback information from Near-RT RIC to Non-RT RIC;
- discovery and request of A1 enrichment information from Near-RT RIC to Non-RT RIC and delivery of A1
enrichment information from Non-RT RIC to Near-RT RIC; and
- request of AI/ML model training, and transfer of AI/ML model training status between SMO/Non-RT RIC and
Near-RT RIC. As described in A1TP [8], clause 7, the A1 interface supports:
- Authorization of requests to access A1 services.

# 5 Functions of the A1 interface

## 5.1 Policy management

### 5.1.1 Introduction
The purpose of A1 policies is to enable the Non-RT RIC function in the SMO to guide the Near-RT RIC function, and hence the RAN, towards a better fulfilment of the RAN intent.
> NOTE: RAN intent represents e.g. the SLA from the BSS (Business Support System) that the RAN is to fulfil for all
users or for a subset of users (e.g. QCI or slice). Based on the permanent configuration and the available resources, the RAN strives to deliver the expected QoS for the users. By utilising the observability over O1, and the A1 policy status and feedback information, the Non-RT RIC can conclude that the RAN intent is not achieved. The Non-RT RIC can then decide to use A1 policies that enable the Near-RT RIC to e.g. optimize RRM for a single UE or for a group of UEs. EXAMPLE: When the Non-RT RIC understands that the available resources in a certain area are not enough to fulfil the SLA for all users in a slice, it can then decide to temporarily change the QoS targets for some users (dynamic group of users) belonging to the same slice (pre-defined group of users). There are different types of A1 policies referred to as A1 policy types. A Non-RT RIC need not use all A1 policy types, and a specific function in the Near-RT RIC may only support one specific A1 policy type. Non-RT RIC can discover available A1 policy types over the A1 interface.
> NOTE: As A1 policy types represent capabilities of the Near-RT RIC and they may also be indicated to the Non-RT RIC
in other ways.

### 5.1.2 The policy management function
The policy management function is used by the Non-RT RIC to provision and manage A1 policies in the Near-RT RIC. The Non-RT RIC is responsible for definition and administration of A1 policies. The function is used to query the available A1 policy types in the Near-RT RIC. The function is used to create, update, and delete A1 policies in the Near-RT RIC. The function is used to query the presence, content, and run-time status of an A1 policy in the Near-RT RIC. The function is supported by A1 policy status and feedback information from the Near-RT RIC to the Non-RT RIC.
> NOTE 1: As the Near-RT RIC cannot change the content of a policy, only a change in enforcement status can be notified.
If context is changed in such a way that the enforcement status of a policy is changed, the Non-RT RIC is notified and may decide to delete the policy.
> NOTE 2: Feedback on the fulfilment of A1 policies in the Near-RT RIC is not transferred over the A1 interface. The Non-
RT RIC can estimate the fulfilment of A1 policies based on O1 observables.
> NOTE 3: Before and after the creation of an A1 policy, the Non-RT RIC can monitor the network to understand the effect
of the A1 policy on performance. Performance monitoring or tracing is not handled over the A1 interface.

### 5.1.3 Lifecycle aspects of A1 policies
Per default, the Near-RT RIC controls the RAN based on the persistent configuration. The RAN operation can be optimized using A1 policies that, compared to the persistent configuration,
- are not critical to traffic;
- have temporary validity;
- handle individual UE or dynamically defined groups of UEs;
- express goals for the optimization rather than direct changes to the configuration; and
- are non-persistent, i.e., do not survive a restart of the Near-RT RIC.
An A1 policy exists in the Near-RT RIC after it has been created by the Non-RT RIC using the Create policy procedure and accepted by the Near-RT RIC. For an A1 policy, the Near-RT RIC can provide status and feedback information to the Non-RT RIC. The Near-RT RIC continuously evaluates the policy conditions versus the environment and notifies the Non-RT RIC in case the enforcement status of the policy changes due to e.g. environment changes. When a create A1 policy request is accepted, the Non-RT RIC can assume that the policy is enforced until policy status is queried or a change in enforcement status is notified. An A1 policy can be updated by the Non-RT RIC using the Update policy procedure. After the update, the policy is evaluated and enforced by the Near-RT RIC based on the updated policy statements. An A1 policy exists in the Near-RT RIC until it is deleted by the Non-RT RIC using the Delete policy procedure. The states related to policy lifecycle and policy enforcement are illustrated in figure 5.1.3-1. C QN r uo e et a ri f t yy e p p o p o o lic l i c y lic y (1 y s t s t ) aa tt uu ss Q u (5 ) (5 ) N Q u QUe O Qe u e r y p d a t r y p o

# E N F O

# T _ E N
u e r y r y p o p o e p lic y

# R C

# F O
p o lic y (4 ) lic y (2 o li c y s t a t u s

# E D

# R C E D
(4 ) lic y s t a t u s ) ( UQN (

# 4 )
puo

# 4 )
det ari f D e le t e t e p o li c y p o l i c y y p o lic y D e le t e p o lic ( 2 ) y s t a t u s t a t u p o lic (3 ) y (6 ) s(6 ) s (3 ) y The state transition diagram in figure 5.1.3-1 illustrates the Non-RT RIC view of the states of a policy instance during the policy lifecycle. All state transitions are related to A1 policy related procedures as listed in clause 6.1 with the following notes:
> NOTE 1: A Create policy request is accepted after the policy has been validated and considered as being possible to
enforce.
> NOTE 2: An Update policy request is accepted after the policy has been validated and considered as being possible to
enforce, it does not cause a state transition unless it makes a policy possible to enforce.
> NOTE 3: A Delete policy request, whether accepted or not, always leads to that the Non-RT RIC considers the policy as
deleted.
> NOTE 4: A Query policy request does not cause a state transition, and a Query policy status request does not cause a state
transition in case the enforcement status has not changed.
> NOTE 5: A Query policy request or a Notify policy status cause a state transition in case the enforcement status has
changed from ENFORCED to NOT_ENFORCED.
> NOTE 6: A Query policy request or a Notify policy status cause a state transition in case the enforcement status has
changed from NOT_ENFORCED to ENFORCED.

### 5.1.4 Identification and scope of A1 policies

#### 5.1.4.0 General
An A1 policy type is identified by the policy type identifier (PolicyTypeId). Different policy types have different PolicyTypeIds. Based on the PolicyTypeId, schemas are identified and used for creation, validation, and formulation, and for query of the status, of A1 policies of that type. An A1 policy is identified by a policy identifier (PolicyId) that shall be assigned by Non-RT RIC. The PolicyId shall be locally unique within Non-RT RIC and sent in the policy request operations that carry representations of A1 policies. A1 policies consist of a scope identifier and one or more policy statements as illustrated in figure 5.1.4.0-1. The scope identifier represents what the policy statements are to be applied on (e.g. UEs, QoS flows, or cells). The policy statements represent the goals to the Near-RT RIC and covers policy objectives and policy resources. P

# A 1 p o
S c o p e id e o lic y sta te licy n tifie r m e n t(s ) By including policy statements with policy objectives,
- the quality of experience can be optimized for UEs or QoS flows that are identified either explicitly by e.g. a UE
identifier or a QoS identifier, or implicitly by e.g. a group identifier from which the Near-RT RIC can deduce a set of UEs; and
- energy saving can be applied to one or more cells that are identified either explicitly by e.g. a cell identifier or
implicitly by e.g. a list of identifiers from which the Near-RT RIC can deduce a set of cells. By including policy statements with policy resources, UEs can e.g. be made to avoid certain cells or the radio network can be optimized in specific areas. The identifiers that can be used as scope identifier in A1 policies are defined as data types in the A1 Type Definitions specification [5], clause 6.3.1. The scope identifier can be composed by a single or a by a combination of these as defined for each policy type definition in A1TD [5], clause 7.2.

#### 5.1.4.1 Identification of UEs
In the scope of A1 policies, a UE is identified by a UE identifier. The UE identifier identifies a logical UE entity that is known to the RAN and measurements related to it. It does not identify any hardware equipment or user subscription. The UE identifier is used for correlating O1-PM data with service targets and enables evaluation of the fulfilment of policies. In order to be able to utilize non-RAN data for the usage of A1 policies, non-RAN data need to include identifiers that can be correlated with the UE identifier by the Non-RT RIC. If the Non-RT RIC needs to express policies for multiple individual UEs, it can be done through a set of policies, one for each individual UE.

#### 5.1.4.2 Identification of groups of UEs
In the scope of A1 policies, a group of UEs can be identified based on a group identifier. When the Near-RT RIC receives a group identifier in an A1 policy, it may resolve it into a set of UEs that are present in the nodes controlled by the Near-RT RIC and applies the policy statements to each one of the UEs.

#### 5.1.4.3 Identification of slices
When the Near-RT RIC receives a slice identifier in an A1 policy, it may resolve it into a set of UEs and a set of QoS flows that are present in the nodes controlled by the Near-RT RIC and applies the policy statements to each one of the UEs or the QoS flows.

#### 5.1.4.4 Identification of QoS flows
When the Near-RT RIC receives a QoS identifier in an A1 policy, it may resolve it into a set of QoS flows (that are related to the applications that the Non-RT RIC is intending to optimize) and the set of UEs (that are present in the nodes controlled by the Near-RT RIC) for which they apply. Then it applies the policy statements to each one of the UEs and QoS flows.

#### 5.1.4.5 Identification of cells
In the scope of A1 policies, a part of the radio network can be identified based on a cell identifier or a set of cell identifiers. When the scope identifier in an A1 policy contains one or more cell identifiers, the policy statement may contain policy resources and the policy may implicitly impact on multiple UEs handled by the specified cell(s). An A1 policy is applied to a specific cell when a cell identifier is included in the scope. An A1 policy is applied to a group of cells when a set of cell identifiers is included in the scope. When no cell identifier or set of cell identifiers is included in the scope, a policy may apply to multiple cells. If the Non-RT RIC needs to express policies for a group of cells (i.e. a set of cells), it is done through a set of policies for individual cells or through a set of cell identifiers or other identifiers that the Near-RT RIC may resolve into a set of cell identifiers.

### 5.1.5 A1 policy content

#### 5.1.5.1 General
In addition to a scope identifier, an A1 policy contains policy statements. There are several kinds of policy statements that cover policy objectives and policy resources.
> NOTE: The detailed rules for how to formulate policy statements, and which combinations of identifiers and statements
that are allowed, are specified for the policy types defined in A1TD [5], clause 7.2.

#### 5.1.5.2 Policy objectives
A statement for policy objectives expresses the goal for the policy. It can be related to e.g. QoS or QoE targets, or KPI or KQI targets. For detailed definitions of statements for policy objectives, see A1TD [5], clause 6.3.3. There is normally only one statement for policy objectives in an A1 policy.

#### 5.1.5.3 Policy resources
A statement for policy resources expresses the conditions for resource usage for the policy. It can be related to e.g. cell preferences. For detailed definitions of statements for policy resources, see A1TD [5], clause 6.3.4. Statements for policy resources can be combined with a statement for policy objectives in an A1 policy.

## 5.2 A1 enrichment information

### 5.2.1 Introduction
The purpose of A1 enrichment information is to enable the Near-RT RIC to improve its RAN optimization performance by utilizing information that is not available within the RAN. The information sources can be O-RAN internal and O-RAN external, and the derived A1 enrichment information can be provided by the Non-RT RIC over the A1 interface. There are different types of A1 enrichment information referred to as EI types. A Near-RT RIC may not need to use all EI types, and a specific function in the Near-RT RIC may only need one specific type of A1 enrichment information. An EI type is identified by the EI type identifier (EiTypeId). Based on the EiTypeId, information can be provided about the A1 enrichment information properties and how to request delivery of the A1 enrichment information. The Near-RT RIC can discover available EiTypeIds over A1 and request delivery of A1 enrichment information related to an available EiTypeId. The Non-RT RIC controls the access to A1 enrichment information and how the connection for delivery of the enrichment information can be made.
> NOTE: There may be functions in the SMO or the Non-RT RIC that also utilize enrichment information for their tasks, it
may be the same or different enrichment information as exposed over the A1 interface. This is outside the scope of the present document to describe.

### 5.2.2 The enrichment information function
The enrichment information function is used by the Non-RT RIC to produce and make A1 enrichment information available to the Near-RT RIC. The Non-RT RIC is responsible for exposure and secure delivery of A1 enrichment information. The function is used to publish available EiTypeIds over A1. The function is used to deliver A1 enrichment information for an EiTypeId based on an EI job.

### 5.2.3 Lifecycle aspects of A1 enrichment information

#### 5.2.3.1 Registration of enrichment information source
Before the Non-RT RIC can provide a certain EiTypeId over A1, the SMO needs to set-up the collection of input information from O-RAN internal and/or external sources and the Non-RT RIC needs to set-up the functions that produce the enrichment information based on the input information and deliver it. When onboarding and set-up is complete, the new EiTypeId can be discovered over A1.

#### 5.2.3.2 Discovery of enrichment information

##### 5.2.3.2.0 General
Before a Near-RT RIC can use A1 enrichment information it needs to identify that the needed EiTypeId is available and how to access it. The Near-RT RIC can discover available EiTypeIds using A1-EI. The Non-RT RIC controls which EiTypeIds are discoverable and accessible by a specific Near-RT RIC. For a specific EiTypeId, the Near-RT RIC can request a detailed description of the enrichment information provided and how to formulate a request for delivery of it.

##### 5.2.3.2.1 Lifecycle aspects of EI types
The Non-RT RIC is responsible for ensuring that the EI types that are discoverable over A1 can be used for EI jobs and delivery of EI job results. An EiTypeId shall not be made available until EI jobs can be created, and EI job results delivered for that EI type. In case Non-RT RIC detects that it is no longer able to deliver EI job results for an EI type, the EiTypeId should no longer be discoverable over A1.

#### 5.2.3.3 Request and Delivery of enrichment information

##### 5.2.3.3.0 General
A1 enrichment information can be delivered to the Near-RT RIC in different ways depending on the type of the A1 enrichment information or on the needs from the using internal function or application. A1 enrichment information can be delivered on an as per needed basis, due to an event or continuously. For continuous delivery, different mechanisms can be used depending on the volume of enrichment information to be delivered. Following the discovery that an EiTypeId is available, the request and delivery of A1 enrichment information is done in two steps: 1) First the Near-RT RIC requests over A1 to get A1 enrichment information for the EiTypeId by creating an EI job that contains a description of the information that is requested and which delivery mechanism to use. 2) Then the Non-RT RIC sets up the appropriate connection and delivers A1 enrichment information according to the agreed details for the EI job.

##### 5.2.3.3.1 Lifecycle aspects of EI jobs
The Near-RT RIC can initiate creation, update, and deletion of EI jobs. The EI job is created when the Near-RT RIC needs A1 enrichment information of a specific EI type and the EI job is deleted when the Near-RT RIC no longer needs the information. In case the Near-RT RIC temporarily cannot use delivered EI, it can discard or buffer the received EI or stop the EI delivery by deleting the EI job and re-create it when it is ready to receive delivered EI. The Near-RT RIC may query existing EI jobs after a re-start, and either delete, update, or keep the EI jobs if still relevant.

##### 5.2.3.3.2 Lifecycle aspects of EI job results
The Non-RT RIC is responsible for the set-up of connections to the Near-RT RIC for the delivery of EI job results according to the agreed EI job. The delivery of the EI job results is started when the EI job is created and stopped when the EI job is deleted. In case delivery connections cannot be set-up to the Near-RT RIC, the Non-RT RIC need not buffer any information produced while the delivery connections are not successful. In case the EI cannot be successfully produced or delivered according to an agreed EI job, the Near-RT RIC can detect this through the delivered EI job results, or through lack of delivered EI job results. The Near-RT RIC may evaluate the received EI job results. If the received EI job results are not according to expectations, the Near-RT RIC can update the EI job or delete it.

### 5.2.4 Identification of A1 enrichment information
A1 enrichment information is identified by the A1 enrichment information identifier (EiTypeId). Different types of A1 enrichment information have different EiTypeIds. The Near-RT RIC can request delivery of A1 enrichment information from the Non-RT RIC by creating an EI job for an EiTypeId. The EI job and the EI job results are identified by an EI job identifier (EiJobId) assigned by the Near-RT RIC.

### 5.2.5 A1 enrichment information format and delivery

#### 5.2.5.1 Push based delivery
When A1 enrichment information has been produced during an EI job, it is pushed from the Non-RT RIC to the Near-RT RIC. This can be done once, regularly or event based depending on the conditions set for the EI job.

## 5.3 ML model management

### 5.3.1 Introduction
The purpose of A1 ML model management is to enable:
- the Near-RT RIC to request the Non-RT RIC to train an AI/ML model;
- the Non-RT RIC to request the Near-RT RIC to train an AI/ML model;
- the Near-RT RIC to query the training status of an AI/ML model that is trained at Non-RT RIC/SMO;
- the Non-RT RIC to query the training status of an AI/ML model that is trained at Near-RT RIC;
- the Non-RT RIC to discover training capabilities provided by Near-RT RIC’s; and
- the Near-RT RIC to discover training capabilities provided by Non-RT RIC/SMO.

# 6 Signalling procedures of the A1 interface

## 6.1 General
The usage of the procedures listed in this clause are described in A1UCR [6] and defined in detail in A1AP [7].

## 6.2 Policy related procedures
Policy related procedures include:
- Query policy type identifiers procedure;
- Query policy type procedure;
- Query policy type status procedure;
- Notify policy type status procedure;
- Create policy procedure;
- Query policy identifiers procedure;
- Query policy procedure;
- Update policy procedure;
- Delete policy procedure;
- Query policy status procedure; and
- Notify policy status procedure.

## 6.3 Enrichment information transfer procedures
A1 enrichment information related procedures include: For EI discovery:
- Query EI type identifiers;
- Query EI type;
- Query EI type status, and
- Notify EI type status.
For EI job control:
- Query EI job identifiers;
- Create EI job;
- Query EI job;
- Update EI job;
- Delete EI job;
- Query EI job status; and
- Notify EI job status.
For EI delivery:
- Deliver EI job result.

## 6.4 ML model related procedures
A1 ML model related procedures include:
- Request AI/ML model training;
- Query AI/ML model training job status; and
- Notify AI/ML model training job status.

# 7 A1 interface protocol structure
The protocol stack of the A1 interface is shown in figure 7-1. The transport network layer is built on IP transport. For the secure and reliable transport of messages, HTTP/TLS is added on top of TCP/IP. The application layer protocol is based on a RESTful approach with transfer of JSON formatted policy statements. The detailed description is provided in A1TP [8]. D A S T N D P a t a In te r p p lic a tio e c u r it y r a n s p o r t e t w o r k a t a lin k h y s ic a l c n h a n g e D P a h N

# J S O N

# H T T P

# T L S

# T C P
IP t a lin k la y s ic a l la o n - R T R y e y e IC r r D P a h N JS O N

# H T T P

# T L S

# T C P
IP t a lin k la y s ic a l la e a r - R T R y e y e IC r r

# 8 Other A1 interface specifications

## 8.1 A1 TS-family overview
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the A1 interface. The other specifications cover Use Cases and Requirements, Transport Protocol, Application Protocol, Type Definitions, and Test cases. The relations between the A1 specifications and their relations to other O-RAN specifications for architecture and for use cases and requirements are illustrated in figure 8.1-1.

## 8.2 A1 interface: Use Cases and Requirements
A1UCR [6] describes the use cases for the A1 procedures and the related requirements.

## 8.3 A1 interface: Transport Protocol
A1TP [8] defines how the A1 protocol stack is based on TCP/IP, HTTP/1.1 over TLS and JSON as data interchange format.

## 8.4 A1 interface: Application Protocol
A1AP [7] defines the resources, the service operations and the service APIs for the A1 services including the URIs for HTTP based procedures.

## 8.5 A1 interface: Type Definitions
A1TD [5] defines attributes, data types and objects for HTTP based procedures and JSON examples of objects are provided.

## 8.6 A1 interface: Test Specification
A1TS [9] defines test cases for
- A1 conformance testing of Non-RT RIC;
- A1 conformance testing of Near-RT RIC; and
- A1 interoperability testing between Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC
based on the procedures defined in A1AP [7].


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG2.TS.A1TD-R004-v11.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG2.TS.A1TD-R004-v11.00 Technical Specification"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in A1GAP [2], clause 3.1, A1AP [3], clause 3.1, and the following apply: ScopeIdentifier: structured data type representing the scope identifier
> NOTE: see A1AP [3].
Statement: structured data type representing a policy statement that is policy type specific.
> NOTE: see A1AP [3].

## 3.2 Symbols
Void.

## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in A1GAP [2], clause 3.3, A1AP [3], clause 3.3, and the following apply: AMF Access and Mobility Management Function E1AP E1 Application Protocol F1AP F1 Application Protocol gNB-CU-CP gNB Central Unit Control Plane GUAMI Globally Unique AMF Identifier GUMMEI Globally Unique MME Identifier MME Mobility Management Entity MOS Mean Opinion Score NGAP Next Generation Application Protocol PEE Power, Energy and Environment SDU Service Data Unit TaI Tracking Area Identity TSP Traffic Steering Preference

# 4 A1 Application data model

## 4.1 Introduction
The present document together with A1AP [3] contains a REST method realization of the A1 interface architecture and the A1 procedures identified in A1GAP [2]. A1AP [3] contains the service description, service operations, resource indicators and the API definition (including the OpenAPI document) for the A1 services. The present document contains the data model and the definitions of the objects transported in the procedures defined for the A1 services. The data types defined in the present document have a lifecycle that is independent from the A1 services defined in A1AP [3]. The A1 data models are based on the documentation guidelines for data models in API definitions specified in 3GPP TS 29.501 [4], clause 5.2.4 and data types specified in 3GPP TS 29.571 [5]. It is based on structured data types and objects as specified in IETF RFC 8259 [6] and JSON Schema [7].

## 4.2 Compatibility of A1 type definitions
The version number of the present document indicates that there may be implications for the compatibility between implementations of policy types and/or EI types defined in different versions of the present document. The first two-digit value of the present document is incremented when
- at least one policy type and/or one EI type has been added or removed; and/or
- at least one policy type and/or one EI type has been updated in a non-backward compatible way.
The second two-digit value of the present document is incremented when at least one policy type and/or one EI type has been updated in a backward compatible way. Policy type compatibility is described in clause 7.1.1 and EI type compatibility is described in clause 9.1.1. The compatibility of A1 implementations in Non/Near-RT RICs depends on the policy types and/or EI types that are implemented. The present document handles the compatibility for data types used by the A1 services while A1AP [3] handles the A1 service compatibility aspects.

# 5 Generic aspects and common data types

## 5.1 Encoding of attributes in A1 data types
The encoding of 3GPP attributes into JSON is based on their original definitions, and their value ranges, rather than on encodings used in other protocols or solutions sets. The definitions are referred to in the data type definitions (see clauses 6.2 and 6.3) and the corresponding encodings are seen in the type definitions (see clauses 7.1.2.1 and 7.2).

## 5.2 Current type definitions
The present document defines the policy types, EI types and common data types listed in table 5.2-1. Type Type name Type Definition version Common data types common 3.0.0 See clause 7.1.2.1 Policy types QoS target QoSTarget 6.0.0 See clause 7.2.1 QoE target QoETarget 6.0.0 See clause 7.2.2 Traffic steering preferences TrafficSteeringPreference 6.0.0 See clause 7.2.3 QoS optimization with resource directive QoSandTSP 6.0.0 See clause 7.2.4 QoE optimization with resource directive QoEandTSP 6.0.0 See clause 7.2.5 UE level target UELevelTarget 5.0.0 See clause 7.2.6 Slice SLA target SliceSLATarget 4.0.1 See clause 7.2.7 Load balancing LoadBalancing 3.0.0 See clause 7.2.8 Energy saving EnergySaving 3.0.1 See clause 7.2.9 EI types UE location and velocity information UEGeoandVel 5.0.0 See clause 9.2.1

# 6 A1-P data model

## 6.1 Introduction
This clause specifies the application data model and data types supported by the A1-P API specified in A1AP [3], clause 6.2. The data model is based on policy statements that include attributes and are combined with a scope identifier into policy objects. Simple data types and enumerations can be referenced from structured data type and policy types. Clause 6.3 defines attributes to be used for scope information and attributes that are not defined as part of the statements (structured data types as defined in coming clauses). For policy objectives, policy statements for the following characteristics are defined:
- QoS targets;
- QoE targets;
- UE level targets;
- Slice SLA targets;
- Load balancing targets; and
- Energy saving targets.
For policy resources, policy statements for the following characteristics are defined:
- Traffic steering optimization;
- Slice SLA assurance;
- Load balancing; and
- Energy saving.
Clause 6.4 contains the formal representation definitions of the policy representation object types defined in the A1-P service description in A1AP [3], clause 5.2.

## 6.2 Simple data types and enumerations

### 6.2.1 Simple data types
The simple data types are defined in table 6.2.1-1. Type Name Type Description Applicability Definition RanUeId string UE identifier, based on RAN UE Id (see 3GPP 5G RAN TS 38.401 [25], clause 6.2.5, and 3GPP TS 38.473 [9], clause 9.2.2.1). Encoded as 16 hexadecimal characters. AmfUeNgapId integer AMF UE NGAP ID (see 3GPP TS 38.413 [21], 4G RAN/5G RAN clause 9.3.3.1). Integer with value range 0 to 240 -1. AmfRegionId string AMF Region ID (see 3GPP TS 38.413 [21], 4G RAN/5G RAN clause 9.3.3.3). Encoded as two hexadecimal characters. AmfSetId string AMF Set ID uniquely identifies an AMF Set 4G RAN/5G RAN within the AMF Region (see 3GPP TS 38.413 [21], clause 9.3.3.12). Encoded as three hexadecimal characters where the first character is limited to values 0 to 3. AmfPointer string AMF Pointer identifies one or more AMF(s) 4G RAN/5G RAN within the AMF Set (see 3GPP TS 38.413 [21], clause 9.3.3.19). Encoded as two hexadecimal characters where the first character is limited to values 0 to 3. MmeUeS1apId integer MME UE S1AP ID (see 3GPP TS 36.413 [22], 4G RAN clause 9.2.3.3). Integer with value range 0 to 232 -1. MmeGroupId string MME Group ID (see 3GPP TS 36.413 [22], 4G RAN clause 9.2.3.9). Encoded as four hexadecimal characters. MmeCode string MMEC (see 3GPP TS 36.413 [22], clause 4G RAN 9.2.3.12). Encoded as two hexadecimal characters. GnbCuUeF1apI integer gNB-CU UE F1AP ID (see 3GPP TS 38.401 5G RAN d [24], clause 6.2.1 and 3GPP TS 38.473 [9], clause 9.3.1.4). Integer with value range 0 to 232 -1. GnbCuCpUeE1 integer gNB-CU-CP UE E1AP ID (see 3GPP TS 38.401 5G RAN apId [24], clause 6.2.1, and 3GPP TS 37.483 [24], clause 9.3.1.4). Integer with value range 0 to 232 -1. EnbUeX2apId integer eNB UE X2AP ID (see 3GPP TS 36.423 [26], 4G RAN/5G RAN clause 9.2.24). Integer with value range 0 to 4095. NgRanNodeUe integer NG-RAN node UE XnAP ID (see 3GPP TS 5G RAN XnapId 38.423 [27], clause 9.2.3.16). Integer with value range 0 to 232 -1. The simple data type for JSON schemas is defined in table 6.2.1-2. Type Name Type Definition Description Applicability JsonSchema https://json-schema.org/draft/2020- A JSON schema meta- 12/schema schema following JSON Schema [7]

### 6.2.2 Enumerations

#### 6.2.2.1 PreferenceType
The enumeration PreferenceType represents the preference of a specific network resource (e.g. cell usage). It shall comply with the provisions defined in table 6.2.2.1-1. Enumeration value Description Applicability SHALL equals to select the resource select the cell regardless of if connection retainability might be at risk PREFER equals to favour the selection favour the selection of the cell even if it is not with the best radio of the resource quality if the connection retainability is not at risk. AVOID equals to avoid selecting the avoid selecting the cell unless the connection retainability is at risk resource FORBID equals to not select the do not select the cell under any conditions resource

#### 6.2.2.2 EnforcementStatusType
The enumeration EnforcementStatusType represents if a policy is enforced or not. It shall comply with the provisions defined in table 6.2.2.2-1. Enumeration value Description Applicability ENFORCED equals that the policy is enforced NOT_ENFORCED equals that the policy is not enforced

#### 6.2.2.3 EnforcementReasonType
The enumeration EnforcementReasonType represents the reason why notification is sent (e.g. why enforcement status has changed). It also represents the latest reason for change of enforcement status to NON_ENFORCED in case policy status is queried. It shall comply with the provisions defined in table 6.2.2.3-1. Enumeration value Description Applicability SCOPE_NOT_APPLICABLE One or more attributes of the The scope provided can no longer be ScopeIdentifier cannot be applied applied for enforcing the policy STATEMENT_NOT_APPLICABLE Policy statement(s) cannot be applied The statement(s) can no longer be applied due to other changes OTHER_REASON Any other reason Policy can no longer be enforced for other reasons than scope or statement becoming inapplicable.

#### 6.2.2.4 AvoidanceType
The enumeration AvoidanceType represents the avoidance of a specific network resource (e.g. cell usage). It shall comply with the provisions defined in table 6.2.2.4-1. Enumeration value Description Applicability AVOID equals to avoid selecting avoid selecting the cell as network resource the network resource FORBID equals to forbid selecting do not select the cell as network resource under any the network resource conditions

## 6.3 Structured data types

### 6.3.1 ScopeIdentifier

#### 6.3.1.1 Introduction
A1 policies are defined in A1GAP [2], clause 5.1.4.0 as containing a scope identifier and one or more policy statements where policy statements contain policy objectives and/or policy resources. This clause defines the structured data type ScopeIdentifier. The ScopeIdentifier contains the attributes defined in table 6.3.1.1-1: Attribute Data Type P Cardinality Description Applicability Name ueId UeId C 0..1 identifies the UE that policy statement(s) are applied to, see clause 6.3.1.7 groupId GroupId C 0..1 identifies multiple UEs that policy statement(s) are applied to, see clause 6.3.1.2 sliceId SliceId C 0..1 identifies the network slice that policy statement(s) are applied to, see clause 6.3.1.3 qosId QosId C 0..1 identifies the QoS flow that policy statement(s) are applied to, see clause 6.3.1.4 cellId CellId C 0..1 identifies the cell that the policy statement(s) are applied to, see clause 6.3.1.5 cellIdList CellIdList C 0..1 identifies the list of cells that the policy statement(s) are applied to, see Table 6.3.2-1 talList TalList C 0..1 identifies the list of TaIs that the policy statement(s) are applied to, see Table 6.3.2-3
> NOTE 1: Presence condition "C" means that least one attribute shall be included when the scope is defined. The
allowed combinations of attributes depend on the policy statement that is combined with the ScopeIdentifier and is policy type specific, see clause 7.2.
> NOTE 2: Encoding of 3GPP attributes into number and string is described in clause 5.1 and applied to the JSON
encodings in clause 7.1.2.1.
> NOTE 3: cellId and cellIdList shall not be present at the same time in a ScopeIdentifier for defining A1 policies.
> NOTE 4: CellIdList shall include only those cells that are associated with unique Near-RT RIC.
> NOTE 5: TaIList shall include only those tracking area codes that cover cells associated with a unique Near-RT RIC.

#### 6.3.1.2 GroupId
GroupId is defined based on different RF selection priority parameters for 4G and 5G networks. GroupId does not explicitly define a UE group, and does not enable any group management operations, but is a property that several UE can share and thereby enables implicit identification of a dynamic set of UEs for which the same policy can be applied. The GroupId contains the attributes defined in table 6.3.1.2-1: Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability spId integer C 0..1 identifier of a subscriber profile that 4G RAN can be shared by several UEs (see 3GPP TS 36.300) [15]. Value range is between 1 and 256. rfspIndex integer C 0..1 identifier of a RF selection priority 5G RAN that can be shared by several UEs (see 3GPP TS 23.501) [11]. Value range is between 1 and 256.
> NOTE: Presence condition "C" means that one and only attribute shall be included when this data type is used.

#### 6.3.1.3 SliceId
SliceId is based on the definition of S-NSSAI (see 3GPP TS 23.003 [10]) and includes a PLMN identifier. The SliceId contains the attributes defined in table 6.3.1.3-1: Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability sst integer M 1 Slice/Service type part of S-NSSAI 5G RAN (see 3GPP TS 23.003 [10]). Integer with value range 0 to 255. sd string O 0..1 Slice Differentiator of S-NSSAI 5G RAN Encoded as 6 hexadecimal characters plmnId PlmnId M 1 PLMN Identifier (see 3GPP TS 4G RAN and 5G 23.003 [10]), see table 6.3.1.6-1 RAN

#### 6.3.1.4 QosId
QosId is defined based on different QoS identifiers for 4G and 5G networks. The QosId contains the attributes defined in table 6.3.1.4-1: Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability qcI integer C 0..1 QoS Class Identifier (see 3GPP TS 4G RAN 23.203 [16]). Value range is between 1 and 256. 5qI integer C 0..1 5G QoS Identifier (see 3GPP TS 5G RAN 23.501 [11]). Value range is between 1 and 256.
> NOTE: Presence condition "C" means that one and only attribute shall be included when this data type is used.

#### 6.3.1.5 CellId
CellId is based on the definition of the global cell identifiers ECGI and NCGI (see 3GPP TS 23.003 [10]) for 4G and 5G RANs. The CellId contains the attributes defined in table 6.3.1.5-1 and 6.3.1.5-2: Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability ecI integer C 0..1 E-UTRAN Cell identifier (see 3GPP 4G RAN TS 23.003 [10]) bits encoded as integer. ncI integer C 0..1 NR Cell identifier (see 3GPP TS 5G RAN 23.003 [10]) bits encoded as integer.
> NOTE: Presence condition "C" means that one and only attribute shall be included when this data type is used.
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability plmnId PlmnId M 1 PLMN Identifier (see 3GPP TS 23.003 [10]), see table 6.3.1.6-1 cId CId M 1 Cell Identifier, see table 6.3.1.5-1

#### 6.3.1.6 PlmnId
This clause contains the definition of the structured data type PlmnId. PlmnId is based on the definition in 3GPP TS 23.003 [10]. The PlmnId contains the attributes defined in table 6.3.1.6-1: Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability mcc string M 1 Mobile Country Code (see 3GPP TS 23.003 [10]) Contains 3 digits. mnc string M 1 Mobile Network Code (see 3GPP TS 23.003 [10]) Contains 2 or 3 digits.

#### 6.3.1.7 UeId
UeId is defined based on the UE associated identifiers listed in O-RAN Architecture Description [28], table 5.5-1 with the exception that C-RNTI is not supported in the scope identifier of A1 policies. Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability globalGnbId GlobalGnbId M 1 Global gNB ID, see clause 6.3.1.8 5G RAN ranUeId RanUeId M 1 RAN UE ID, see clause 6.2.1 5G RAN Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability guAmI GuAmI M 1 Globally unique AMF Identifier, see 4G RAN/5G RAN clause 6.3.1.9 amfUeNgapId AmfUeNgapId M 1 AMF UE NGAP ID, see clause 6.2.1 4G RAN/5G RAN Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability guMmeI GuMmeI M 1 Globally unique MME Identifier, see 4G RAN clause 6.3.1.10 mmeUeS1apId MmeUeS1apId M 1 MME UE S1AP ID, see clause 6.2.1 4G RAN Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability guRanUeId GuRanUeId C 0..1 Globally unique RAN UE ID, see 5G RAN table 6.3.1.7-1 guAmfUeNgapId GuAmfUeNgapId C 0..1 Globally unique AMF UE NGAP ID, 4G RAN/5G RAN see table 6.3.1.7-2 guMmeUeS1apId GuMmeUeS1apId C 0..1 Globally unique MME UE S1AP ID, 4G RAN see table 6.3.1.7-3 guGnbCuUeF1ap GuGnbCuUeF1ap C 0..1 Globally unique gNB-CU UE F1AP 5G RAN Id Id ID, see table 6.3.1.7-5 guGnbCuCpUeE GuGnbCuCpUeE C 0..1 Globally unique gNB-CU-CP UE 5G RAN 1apId 1apId E1AP ID, see table 6.3.1.7-6 guEnbUeX2apId GuEnbUeX2apId C 0..1 Globally unique eNB UE X2AP ID, 4G RAN/5G RAN see table 6.3.1.7-7 guNgRanNodeU GuNgRanNodeU C 0..1 Globally unique NG-RAN node UE 5G RAN eXnapUeId eXnapUeId XnAP ID, see table 6.3.1.7-8
> NOTE: Presence condition "C" means that one and only attribute shall be included when this data type is used.
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability globalGnbId GlobalGnbId M 1 Global gNB ID, see clause 6.3.1.8 5G RAN gnbCuUeF1apId GnbCuUeF1apId M 1 gNB-CU UE F1AP ID, see clause 5G RAN 6.2.1 Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability globalGnbId GlobalGnbId M 1 Global gNB ID, see clause 6.3.1.8 5G RAN gnbCuCpUeE1ap GnbCuCpUeE1ap M 1 gNB-CU-CP UE E1AP ID, see 5G RAN Id Id clause 6.2.1 Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability globalEnbId GlobalEnbId M 1 Global eNB ID, see clause 6.3.1.11 4G RAN/5G RAN enbUeX2apId EnbUeX2apId M 1 eNB UE X2AP ID, see clause 6.2.1 4G RAN/5G RAN Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability globalNgRanNod GlobalNgRanNod M 1 Global NG-RAN Node ID, see 5G RAN ebId eId clause 6.3.1.12 ngRanNodeUeXn NgRanNodeUeXn M 1 NG-RAN node UE XnAP ID, see 5G RAN apId apId clause 6.2.1

#### 6.3.1.8 GlobalGnbId
This clause contains the definition of the structured data type GlobalGnbId. This is based on Global gNB ID defined in 3GPP TS 38.413 [21], clause 9.3.1.6, in 3GPP TS 38.473 [9], clause 9.3.1.305, and in 3GPP TS 38.423 [27], clause 9.2.2.1. The GlobalGnbId contains the attributes defined in table 6.3.1.8-1 and 6.3.1.8-2: Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability gnbIdLength integer M 1 This indicates the number of bits for 5G RAN encoding the gNB ID (see 3GPP TS 38.413 [21], clause 9.3.1.6). Integer with value range 22 to 32. gnbIdValue integer M 1 gNB ID (see 3GPP TS 38.413 [21], 5G RAN clause 9.3.1.6). Encoded as integer with value range 0 to 232 -1. Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability plmnId PlmnId M 1 PLMN Identifier, see clause 6.3.1.6 5G RAN gnbId GnbId M 1 gNB Identifier, see table 6.3.1.8-1 5G RAN

#### 6.3.1.9 GuAmI
This clause contains the definition of the structured data type GuAmI. This is based on GUAMI defined in 3GPP TS 38.413 [21], clause 9.3.3.3. The GuAmI contains the attributes defined in table 6.3.1.9-1: Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability plmnId PlmnId M 1 PLMN Identifier, see clause 6.3.1.6 4G RAN/5G RAN amfRegionId AmfRegionId M 1 AMF Region Identifier, see clause 4G RAN/5G RAN 6.2.1 amfSetId AmfSetId M 1 AMF Set Identifier, see clause 6.2.1 4G RAN/5G RAN amfPointer AmfPointer M 1 AMF Pointer, see clause 6.2.1 4G RAN/5G RAN

#### 6.3.1.10 GuMmeI
This clause contains the definition of the structured data type GuMmeI. This is based on GUMMEI defined in 3GPP TS 36.413 [22], clause 9.2.3.9. The GuMmeI contains the attributes defined in table 6.3.1.10-1: Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability plmnId PlmnId M 1 PLMN Identifier, see clause 6.3.1.6 4G RAN mmeGroupId MmeGroupId M 1 MME Group Identifier, see clause 4G RAN 6.2.1 mmeCode MmeCode M 1 MME Code, see clause 6.2.1 4G RAN

#### 6.3.1.11 GlobalEnbId
This clause contains the definition of the structured data type GlobalEnbId. This is based on Global eNB ID defined in 3GPP TS 36.413 [22], clause 9.2.1.37 and in 3GPP 36.423 [26], clause 9.2.22. The GlobalEnbId contains the attributes defined in table 6.3.1.11-1 and 6.3.1.11-2: Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability macroEnbId string C 0..1 Macro eNB ID (see 3GPP TS 4G RAN/5G RAN 36.423 [26], clause 9.2.22). Encoded as five hexadecimal characters. homeEnbId string C 0..1 Home eNB ID (see 3GPP TS 4G RAN/5G RAN 36.423 [26], clause 9.2.22). Encoded as seven hexadecimal characters. shortMacroEnbId string C 0..1 Short Macro eNB ID (see 3GPP TS 4G RAN/5G RAN 36.423 [26], clause 9.2.22). Encoded as five hexadecimal characters where the first character is limited to values 0 to 3. longMacroEnbId string C 0..1 Long Macro eNB ID (see 3GPP TS 4G RAN/5G RAN 36.423 [26], clause 9.2.22). Encoded as six hexadecimal characters where the first character is limited to values 0 to 1.
> NOTE: Presence condition "C" means that one and only attribute shall be included when this data type is used.
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability plmnId PlmnId M 1 PLMN Identifier, see clause 6.3.1.6 4G RAN/5G RAN enbId EnbId M 1 eNB Identifier, see table 6.3.1.11-1 4G RAN/5G RAN

#### 6.3.1.12 GlobalNgRanNodeId
This clause contains the definition of the structured data type GlobalNgRanNodeId. This is based on Global NG-RAN Node ID defined in 3GPP TS 38.423 [27], clause 9.2.2.3. The GlobalNgRanNodeId contains the attributes defined in tables 6.3.1.12-1, 6.3.1.12-2, and 6.3.1.12-3. Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability macroNgEnbId integer C 1 Macro ng-eNB ID (see 3GPP TS 5G RAN 38.423 [27], clause 9.2.2.2). Encoded as integer with value range 0 to 220 -1. shortMacroNgEn integer C 1 Short Macro ng-eNB ID (see 3GPP TS 5G RAN bId 38.423 [27], clause 9.2.2.2). Encoded as integer with value range 0 to 218 -1. longMacroNgEnb integer C 1 Long Macro ng-eNB ID (see 3GPP TS 5G RAN Id 38.423 [27], clause 9.2.2.2). Encoded as integer with value range 0 to 221 -1.
> NOTE: Presence condition "C" means that one and only attribute shall be included when this data type is used.
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability plmnId PlmnId M 1 PLMN Identifier, see clause 6.3.1.6 5G RAN ngEnbId NgEnbId M 1 ng-eNB Identifier, see table 6.3.1.12-1 5G RAN Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability globalGnbId GlobalGnbId C 0..1 Global gNB ID, see table 6.3.1.8-2 5G RAN globalNgEnbId GlobalNgEnbId C 0..1 Global ng-eNB ID, see table 6.3.1.12-2 5G RAN
> NOTE: Presence condition "C" means that one and only attribute shall be included when this data type is used.

### 6.3.2 Structured data types for statements
This clause contains definitions of structured data types that are used in statements for policy objectives and/or statements for policy resources. The CellIdList contains the attributes defined in table 6.3.2-1: Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability cellIdList array(CellId) M 1..N list of CellIds, see clause 6.3.1 The TaIList contains the attributes defined in table 6.3.2-2 and 6.3.2-3: Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability plmnId PlmnId M 1 PLMN Identifier (see 3GPP TS 4G RAN and 5G 23.003 [10]), see table 6.3.1.6-1 RAN tac string M 1 Tracking Area Code (see 3GPP TS 5G RAN 23.003 [10]). Encoded as 6 hexadecimal characters. Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability taIList array(TaI) M 1..N list of TaIs, see table 6.3.2-2 4G RAN and 5G RAN

### 6.3.3 Statements for policy objectives

#### 6.3.3.1 Introduction
A1 policies are defined in A1GAP [2], clause 5.1.4.0 as containing a scope identifier and one or more policy statements where policy statements contain policy objectives and/or policy resources. This clause defines the structured data types and attributes to be used for policy objectives. of these are defined in clause 7. Data type Clause defined Description Applicability QosObjectives 6.3.3.2 Attributes related to QoS targets QoeObjectives 6.3.3.3 Attributes related to QoE targets UeLevelObjectives 6.3.3.4 Attributes related to UE level targets SliceSlaObjectives 6.3.3.5 Attributes related to slice SLA targets LbObjectives 6.3.3.6 Attributes related to load balancing EsObjectives 6.3.3.7 Attributes related to energy saving

#### 6.3.3.2 QoS target
The QosObjectives statement contains the attributes defined in table 6.3.3.2-1: Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability gfbr number C 0..1 Guaranteed Flow Bit Rate, 5G RAN see 3GPP TS 23.501 [11] mfbr number C 0..1 Maximum Flow Bit Rate, 5G RAN see 3GPP TS 23.501 [11] priorityLevel number C 0..1 Priority Level, see 3GPP TS 5G RAN 23.501 [11] pdb number C 0..1 Packet Delay Budget, see 5G RAN 3GPP TS 23.501 [11]
> NOTE: Presence condition "C" means that least one attribute shall be included when this statement is used.

#### 6.3.3.3 QoE target
The QoeObjectives statement contains the attributes defined in table 6.3.3.3-1: Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability qoeScore number C 0..1 mean opinion score (MOS) value between 1 and 5, it can be either e.g. video MOS as specified in ITU-T P.1203.3 [12] or a customized MOS initialBuffering number C 0..1 refers to the time in seconds between the initiation of video playback by the user and the actual start of the playback as specified in ITU-T P.1203.3 [12] reBuffFreq number C 0..1 it can be calculated by taking the number of stalling events (excluding the initial buffering) and dividing by the length of media as specified in ITU-T P.1203.3 [12] or by a customized time window stallRatio number C 0..1 ratio of the sum of duration of the stalling events to the total media length as specified in ITU-T P.1203.3 [12] or by a customized time window.
> NOTE 1: Presence condition "C" means that least one attribute shall be included when this statement is used.
> NOTE 2: In the present document, the QoE target is applicable to video streaming services.
Application server will measure the QoE related attributes (e.g. MOS, initial buffering, reBuffFreq, stallRatio) for a specific service based on application info. However, it is too late for the network to optimize the radio resource when the application server finds the QoE is too bad. The Near-RT RIC could predict the QoE related attributes based on the network side info (e.g. QoS parameters, radio conditions, Packet measure report etc.) e.g. by performing model inference for a specific ML model received from the Non-RT RIC. The predicted value is approximately the QoE related attribute which will be measured at application server later, but it is estimated at the Near-RT RIC in real time. So, the Near-RT RIC could decide to optimize the radio resource based on the predicted value and the QoE target contained in the A1 policy.

#### 6.3.3.4 UE level targets
The UeLevelObjectives statement contains the attributes defined in table 6.3.3.4-1: Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability ulThroughput number C 0..1 the average UL RAN UE throughput as the UE performance targets or RAN optimization constraints. See 3GPP TS 28.552 [13], clause 5.1.1.3.3. dlThroughtput number C 0..1 the average DL RAN UE throughput as the UE performance targets or RAN optimization constraints. See 3GPP TS 28.552 [13], clause 5.1.1.3.1. ulPacketDelay number C 0..1 Uplink Packet delay with precision of 0.1 millisecond as the UE performance targets or RAN optimization constraints. See 3GPP TS 28.552 [13], clause 5.1.1.1.4. dlPacketDelay number C 0..1 Downlink Packet delay with precision of 0.1 millisecond as the UE performance targets or RAN optimization constraints. See 3GPP TS 28.552 [13], clause 5.1.3.3.3. ulPdcpSduPacketLo number C 0..1 UL reliability as the UE performance ssRate targets or RAN optimization constraints. See 3GPP TS 28.552 [13], clause 5.1.3.1.1. dlRlcSduPacketLos number C 0..1 DL reliability as the UE performance sRate targets or RAN optimization constraints. See 3GPP TS 28.552 [13], clause 5.1.1.35. dlReliability ReliabilityType C 0..1 DL reliability as the UE performance targets or RAN optimization constraints. ulReliability ReliabilityType C 0..1 UL reliability as the UE performance targets or RAN optimization constraints.
> NOTE: Presence condition "C" means that least one attribute shall be included when this statement is used.
The ReliabilityType represents the success probability of transmitting a data packet of X bytes within a certain delay. It shall comply with the provisions defined in table 6.3.3.4-2. Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability packetSize number M 1 data package size in unit of bytes userPlaneLatency number M 1 the time it takes to deliver a data packet from the radio protocol layer 2/3 SDU ingress point to the radio protocol layer 2/3 SDU egress point of the radio interface in unit of ms successProbability number M 1 the success probability of transmitting a data packet in packet size within the user plane latency, a number between 0 and 1

#### 6.3.3.5 Slice SLA target
The SliceSlaObjectives statement contains the attributes defined in table 6.3.3.5-1: Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability maxNumberOfUes number C 0..1 This attribute describes the partial SLA target for providing maximum number of RRC connected UEs to be served by the network slice concurrently. Scope identifier designates the respective network slice and optionally slice SLA resources can further designate targeted cells. See NG.116 [17], clause 3.4.17 ("Maximum Number of UEs"). maxNumberOfPdu number C 0..1 This attribute describes the partial SLA target Sessions for providing maximum number of PDU sessions to be supported by the network slice concurrently. Scope identifier designates the respective network slice and optionally slice SLA resources can further designate targeted cells. See NG.116 [17], clause 3.4.16 ("Maximum number of PDU sessions"). guaDlThptPerSlice number C 0..1 This attribute describes the partial SLA target for providing guaranteed data rate as kbps in downlink to be served by the network slice for the aggregate of all GBR QoS flows in downlink belonging to the set of all UEs using the network slice. Scope identifier designates the respective network slice and optionally slice SLA resources can further designate targeted cells. If there are designed targeted cells, the downlink data rate is aggregated over the designated targeted cells within the respective network slice under the control of the near-RT RIC. If no cell is designated, the downlink data rate is aggregated over all the cells within the respective network slice under the control of the near-RT RIC. See NG.116 [17], clause 3.4.5 ("Guaranteed downlink throughput quota"). maxDlThptPerSlice number C 0..1 This attribute describes the partial SLA target for providing maximum data rate supported by the network slice for all UEs together in downlink in kbps. Scope identifier designates the respective network slice and optionally slice SLA resources can further designate targeted cells. See NG.116 [17], clause 3.4.5 ("Max downlink throughput"). maxDlThptPerUe number C 0..1 This attribute describes the maximum data rate supported by the network slice per UE in downlink in kbps. Scope identifier designates the respective network slice and optionally slice SLA resources can further designate targeted cells. See NG.116 [17], clause 3.4.6 ("Downlink maximum throughput per UE"). This attribute applies to all UEs that are a member of that slice in the designated target cells. Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability guaUlThptPerSlice number C 0..1 This attribute describes the partial SLA target for providing guaranteed data rate as kbps in uplink to be served by the network slice for the aggregate of all GBR QoS flows in uplink belonging to the set of all UEs using the network slice. Scope identifier designates the respective network slice and optionally slice SLA resources can further designate targeted cells. If there are designed targeted cells, the uplink data rate is aggregated over the designated targeted cells within the respective network slice under the control of the near-RT RIC. If no cell is designated, the uplink data rate is aggregated over all the cells within the respective network slice under the control of the near-RT RIC. See NG.116 [17], clause 3.4.31 ("Guaranteed uplink throughput quota"). maxUlThptPerSlice number C 0..1 This attribute describes the partial SLA target for providing maximum data rate supported by the network slice for all UEs together in uplink in kbps. Scope identifier designates the respective network slice and optionally slice SLA resources can further designate targeted cells. See NG.116 [17], clause 3.4.31 ("Max uplink throughput"). maxUlThptPerUe number C 0..1 This attribute describes the maximum data rate supported by the network slice per UE in uplink in kbps. Scope identifier designates the respective network slice and optionally slice SLA resources can further designate targeted cells. See NG.116 [17], clause 3.4.32 ("Uplink maximum throughput per UE"). This attribute applies to all UEs that are a member of that slice in the designated target cells. maxDlPacketDelay number C 0..1 This attribute describes the maximum delay for PerUe DL packets in ms as the performance target that is communicated to the Near-RT RIC. This attribute applies to all UEs that are a member of the designated slice in the designated target cells. This attribute is based on Packet Delay Budget (see GSMA NG.116 [17], clause 3.4.26 (“Slice quality of service parameters: Packet Delay Budget”)). The Packet Delay Budget parameter in GSMA NG.116 [17] is for both uplink & downlink while maxDlPacketDelayPerUe is only for downlink. Packet Delay Budget parameter in GSMA NG.116 [17] is defined per 5QI per slice while maxDlPacketDelayPerUe is defined per slice. Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability maxUlPacketDelay number C 0..1 This attribute describes the maximum delay for PerUe UL packets in ms as the performance target that is communicated to the Near-RT RIC. This attribute applies to all UEs that are a member of the designated slice in the designated target cells. This attribute is based on Packet Delay Budget (see GSMA NG.116 [17], clause 3.4.26 (“Slice quality of service parameters: Packet Delay Budget”)). The Packet Delay Budget parameter in GSMA NG.116 [17] is for both uplink & downlink while maxUlPacketDelayPerUe is only for uplink. Packet Delay Budget parameter in GSMA NG.116 [17] is defined per 5QI per slice while maxUlPacketDelayPerUe is defined per slice. maxDlPdcpSduPac number C 0..1 This attribute describes the maximum DL PDCP ketLossRatePerUe SDU level packet loss rate, a number between 0 and 1, as the performance target that is communicated to the Near-RT RIC. This attribute applies to all UEs that are a member of the designated slice in the designated target cells. This attribute is based on Maximum Packet Loss Rate (see GSMA NG.116 [17], clause

### 3.4.26 (“Slice quality of service parameters:
Maximum Packet Loss Rate”)). The Maximum Packet Loss Rate parameter in GSMA NG.116 [17] is for both uplink & downlink while maxDlPdcpSduPacketLossRatePerUe is only for downlink. maxUlRlcSduPack number C 0..1 This attribute describes the maximum UL RLC etLossRatePerUe SDU level packet loss rate, a number between 0 and 1, as the performance target that is communicated to the Near-RT RIC. This attribute applies to all UEs that are a member of the designated slice in the designated target cells. This attribute is based on Maximum Packet Loss Rate (see GSMA NG.116 [17], clause

### 3.4.26 (“Slice quality of service parameters:
Maximum Packet Loss Rate”)). The Maximum Packet Loss Rate parameter in GSMA NG.116 [17] is for both uplink & downlink while maxUlPdcpSduPacketLossRatePerUe is only for uplink. minDlReliabilityPer Reliability C 0..1 This attribute describes the minimum DL Ue Type reliability as the performance target that is communicated to the Near-RT RIC. The definition of minDlReliabilityPerUe corresponds to that of dlReliability in table 6.3.3.4-1. This attribute applies to all UEs that are a member of the designated slice in the designated target cells. Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability minUlReliabilityPer Reliability C 0..1 This attribute describes the minimum UL Ue Type reliability as the performance target that is communicated to the Near-RT RIC. The definition of minUlReliabilityPerUe corresponds to that of ulReliability in table 6.3.3.4-1. This attribute applies to all UEs that are a member of the designated slice in the designated target cells. maxDlJitterPerUe number C 0..1 This attribute describes the maximum DL jitter in ms, which is the deviation from the desired packet arrival time to the actual packet arrival time, as the performance target that is communicated to the Near-RT RIC. This attribute applies to all UEs that are a member of the designated slice in the designated target cells. maxUlJitterPerUe number C 0..1 This attribute describes the maximum UL jitter in ms, which is the deviation from the desired packet arrival time to the actual packet arrival time, as the performance target that is communicated to the Near-RT RIC. This attribute applies to all UEs that are a member of the designated slice in the designated target cells. dlSlicePriority number C 0..1 This attribute describes the priority of the slice in DL, that is communicated to the Near-RT RIC, for providing prioritization for using RAN resources. According to this attribute, QoS flows under a slice are prioritized. The lower the value, the higher the priority. The value shall be greater than or equal to 1. ulSlicePriority number C 0..1 This attribute describes the priority of the slice in UL, that is communicated to the Near-RT RIC, for providing prioritization for using RAN resources. According to this attribute, QoS flows under a slice are prioritized. The lower the value, the higher the priority. The value shall be greater than or equal to 1. maxDlPktSize number C 0..1 This attribute describes the maximum packet size to be supported by the network slice in the downlink in Bytes, that is communicated to the Near-RT RIC, for optimizing the RAN performance, especially for URLLC case and very small packets. Scope identifier designates the respective network slice and optionally slice SLA resources can further designate targeted cells. This attribute applies to all UEs that are a member of that slice in the designated target cells. This attribute is based on Maximum supported packet size (see GSMA NG.116 [17], clause 3.4.11 (“Maximum supported packet size”)). The Maximum supported packet size in GSMA NG.116 [17] is for both uplink & downlink while maxDlPktSize is only for downlink. Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability maxUlPktSize number C 0..1 This attribute describes the maximum packet size to be supported by the network slice in the uplink in Bytes, that is communicated to the Near-RT RIC, for optimizing the RAN performance, especially for URLLC case and very small packets. Scope identifier designates the respective network slice and optionally slice SLA resources can further designate targeted cells. This attribute applies to all UEs that are a member of that slice in the designated target cells. This attribute is based on Maximum supported packet size (see GSMA NG.116 [17], clause 3.4.11 (“Maximum supported packet size”)). The Maximum supported packet size in GSMA NG.116 [17] is for both uplink & downlink while maxUlPktSize is only for uplink.
> NOTE 1: Presence condition "C" means that at least one attribute shall be included when this statement is used.
> NOTE 2: Void
> NOTE 3: Void

#### 6.3.3.6 Load balancing targets
The LbObjectives statement contains the attributes defined in table 6.3.3.6-3. The DlLbObjective and UlLbObjective included in LbObjectives are defined in tables 6.3.3.6-1 and 6.3.3.6-2. Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability dlTargetPrbUsg number M 1 The target downlink PRB usage in percent. The denominator is the total number of PRBs in the cell, and the numerator is the number of PRBs specified by dlPrbUsgType. Value range: 0-100 [%] dlPrbUsgType number M 1 This attribute specifies the downlink If only cellId is included in PRB usage type used in the the scope, applicable values calculation of dlTargetPrbUsg. are 1-2. If cellId and sliceId 1: Mean DL PRB used for data traffic are included in the scope, (see 3GPP TS 28.552 [13], clause applicable values are 3-4. 5.1.1.2.5) 2: Peak DL PRB used for data traffic (see 3GPP TS 28.552 [13], clause 5.1.1.2.9) 3: Mean DL PRB used for data traffic per S-NSSAI (see 3GPP TS 28.552 [13], clause 5.1.1.2.5) 4: Peak DL PRB used for data traffic per S-NSSAI (see 3GPP TS 28.552 [13], clause 5.1.1.2.9) Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability ulTargetPrbUsg Number M 1 The target uplink PRB usage in percent. The denominator is the total number of PRBs in the cell, and the numerator is the number of PRBs specified by ulPrbUsgType. Value range: 0-100 [%] ulPrbUsgType Number M 1 This attribute specifies the uplink PRB If only cellId is included in usage type used in the calculation of the scope, applicable values ulTargetPrbUsg. are 1-2. If cellId and sliceId 1: Mean UL PRB used for data traffic are included in the scope, (see 3GPP TS 28.552 [13], clause applicable values are 3-4. 5.1.1.2.5) 2: Peak UL PRB used for data traffic (see 3GPP TS 28.552 [13], clause 5.1.1.2.9) 3: Mean UL PRB used for data traffic per S-NSSAI (see 3GPP TS 28.552 [13], clause 5.1.1.2.5) 4: Peak UL PRB used for data traffic per S-NSSAI (see 3GPP TS 28.552 [13], clause 5.1.1.2.9) Attribute Data Type P Cardinality Description Applicability Name dlLbObjective DlLbObjective C 0..1 This schema indicates target PRB usage of downlink, see table 6.3.3.6-1. ulLbObjective UlLbObjective C 0..1 This schema indicates target PRB usage of uplink, see table 6.3.3.6- 2.
> NOTE: Presence condition "C" means that at least one attribute shall be included when this statement is used.

#### 6.3.3.7 Energy saving targets
The EsObjectives statement contains the attributes defined in table 6.3.3.7-1: Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability targetPeeEnergy number C 0..1 Target average value of energy consumption 4G, 5G PEE.Energy of PNF such as O-RU in kWh over targeted list of cells For "PEE.Energy" see 3GPP TS 28.552 [13], clause 5.1.1.19.3, for 5G NR and 3GPP TS 32.425 [25], clause 4.12.2, for 4G LTE. esPercentage number C 0..1 Energy consumption reduction of O-RU in percentage. 4G, 5G The energy consumption i.e. PEE.Energy is measured based on method defined in 3GPP TS 28.552[13], clause 5.1.1.19.3, for 5G NR and 3GPP TS 32.425 [23], clause 4.12.2, for 4G LTE. Value range is between 0 and 100.
> NOTE: Presence condition "C" means that one and only attribute shall be included when this data type is used.

### 6.3.4 Statements for policy resources

#### 6.3.4.1 Introduction
A1 policies are defined in A1GAP [2], clause 5.1.4.0 as containing a scope identifier and one or more policy statements where policy statements contain policy objectives and/or policy resources. This clause defines the structured data types and attributes to be used for policy resources. type specific and defined in clause 7.2. Data type Clause defined Description Applicability TspResources 6.3.4.2 Attributes used to schedule traffic on available cells in a different way than what would be through default behavior SliceSlaResources 6.3.4.3 Attributes used to indicate the RAN resources (such as cells or tracking areas) targeted for the respective slice SLA objective LbResources 6.3.4.4 Attributes used for load balancing between a congested cell and indicated candidate cells EsResources 6.3.4.5 Attributes used to express conditions for cells to apply network energy savings

#### 6.3.4.2 Traffic steering preference
The TspResources statement is defined in table 6.3.4.2-2 as an array of the type TspResource defined in table 6.3.4.2-1. Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability cellIdList CellIdList M 1 list of CellIds, see clause 6.3.2 preference PreferenceType M 1 the preference of cell usage [SHALL/PREFER/AVOID/FORBID]. primary boolean O 0..1 indicates applicability to the selection of primary cell Attribute Data Type P Cardinality Description Applicability Name tspResources array(TspResource) M 1..N list of TspResource When the value of the preference attribute is set to PREFER or AVOID, the cellIdList contains cells in descending order of importance for how they should be preferred or avoided, e.g. the first entry is most preferred or most avoided. When the preference value is set to SHALL or FORBID, the cellIdList contains cells that are of equal importance. When the value of the primary attribute is set to true, and the value of the preference attribute is set to SHALL, then only a cell in the cellIdList is to be used as primary cell. When the value of the primary attribute is set to true, and the value of the preference attribute is set to PREFER, then a cell in the cellIdList may be used as primary cell. When the value of the primary attribute is set to true, and the preference value is set to AVOID or FORBID, then no cell in the cellIdList is to be used as primary cell. When the value of the primary attribute is set to false, and the value of the preference attribute is set to SHALL, then only one or more cells in the cellIdList are to be used as secondary cell. When the value of the primary attribute is set to false, and the value of the preference attribute is set to PREFER, then one or more cells in the cellIdList may be used as secondary cell. When the value of the primary attribute is set to false, and the preference value is set to AVOID or FORBID, then no cell in the cellIdList is to be used as secondary cell. When the primary attribute is not included, the statement shall be handled in the same way as when the primary attribute is set to false.

#### 6.3.4.3 Slice SLA Policy Resources
The SliceSlaResources statement is defined in table 6.3.4.3-1. Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability cellIdList CellIdList C 0..1 list of CellIds, see clause 6.3.2 taIList TaIList C 0..1 list of TaIs, see clause 6.3.2
> NOTE: Presence condition "C" means that one and only one attribute shall be included when this statement is
used.

#### 6.3.4.4 Load Balancing Policy Resources
The LbResources statement is defined in table 6.3.4.4-1. Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability cellIdList CellIdList M 1 list of CellIds used to designate candidate cells to which cell load is to be transferred

#### 6.3.4.5 Energy Savings resources
The EsResources statement is defined in Table 6.3.4.5-2 as an array of the type EsResource defined in Table 6.3.4.5-1. Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability operationalCells CellIdList C 0..1 list of Cells preferred to keep 4G, 5G operational, see clause 6.3.2 table 6.3.2-1 for the definition of the data type CellIdList, see NOTE 1 operationalPreference AvoidanceType C 0..1 the operational preference of the cells 4G, 5G while performing network energy saving [AVOID/FORBID], see clause 6.2.2.4 for the definition of the data type AvoidanceType, see NOTE 2 coverageCells CellIdList C 0..1 list of cells with coverage preferences, 4G, 5G see clause 6.3.2 table 6.3.2-1 for the definition of the data type CellIdList, see NOTE 1 coveragePreference AvoidanceType C 0..1 the coverage preference of the cells 4G, 5G while performing network energy saving [AVOID/FORBID], see clause 6.2.2.4 for the definition of the data type AvoidanceType, see NOTE 3 dlPrbUsage integer O 0..1 The DL PRB usage (in percentage). 5G The value range of this attribute is from 0 to 100. For "RRU.PrbDl", see 3GPP TS 28.552 [13], clause 5.1.1.2.1. A cell shall not perform network energy saving when its DL PRB usage is higher than the specified value. This attribute applies to all cells within the policy scope. ulPrbUsage integer O 0..1 The UL PRB usage (in percentage). 5G The value range of this attribute is from 0 to 100. For "RRU.PrbUl" see 3GPP TS 28.552 [13], clause 5.1.1.2.2. A cell shall not perform network energy saving when its UL PRB usage is higher than the specified value. This attribute applies to all cells within the policy scope.
> NOTE 1: Presence condition "C" means that least operationalCells or coverageCells shall be included when this
statement is used.
> NOTE 2: Presence condition "C" means that the operationalPreference shall only be included in case
operationalCells is included.
> NOTE 3: Presence condition "C" means that the coveragePreference shall only be included in case coverageCells
is included. Attribute Data Type P Cardinality Description Applicability Name esResources array(EsResource) M 1..N list of EsResource 4G, 5G When the value of the operationalPreference attribute is set to FORBID, the operationalCells contains cells that are forbidden from being non-operational while performing the network energy savings. The operationalCells contains cells that are of equal importance. When the value of the operationalPreference attribute is set to AVOID, the operationalCells contains cells that should be avoided from being non-operational while performing the network energy savings. The operationalCells contains cells in descending order of importance for how they should be avoided, e.g. the first entry is most avoided from being non-operational while performing the network energy savings. When the value of the coveragePreference attribute is set to FORBID, the coverageCells contains cells that are forbidden from having any coverage impact while performing the network energy savings. The coverageCells contains cells that are of equal importance. When the value of the coveragePreference attribute is set to AVOID, the coverageCells contains cells that should be avoided from having any coverage impact while performing the network energy savings. The coverageCells contains cells in descending order of importance for how they should be avoided, e.g. the first entry is most avoided from having any coverage impact while performing the network energy savings. If dlPrbUsage is present in EsResource, then a cell may perform network energy saving methods only when its DL PRB usage is not higher than the specified dlPrbUsage value. If ulPrbUsage is present in EsResource, then a cell may perform network energy saving methods only when its UL PRB usage is not higher than the specified ulPrbUsage value. If both dlPrbUsage and ulPrbUsage are present in EsResource, then a cell may perform network energy saving methods only when its DL PRB usage is not higher than the specified dlPrbUsage value and its UL PRB usage is not higher than the specified ulPrbUsage value. The conditions should be checked when the corresponding performance measurements are available at the Near-RT RIC.

## 6.4 Policy representations objects

### 6.4.1 Policy object

#### 6.4.1.1 General
A PolicyObject is based on IETF RFC 8259 [6] and it always contains one set of:
- one ScopeIdentifier; and
- one or more Statements.
The PolicyObject can contain objective and/or resource statements as defined in table 6.4.1.1-1. Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability scope ScopeIdentifier M 1 See clause 6.3.1 qosObjectives QosObjectives C 0..1 See clause 6.3.3.2 qoeObjectives QoeObjectives C 0..1 See clause 6.3.3.3 ueLevelObjectives UeLevelObjectives C 0..1 See clause 6.3.3.4 sliceSlaObjectives SliceSlaObjectives C 0..1 See clause 6.3.3.5 lbObjectives LbObjectives C 0..1 See clause 6.3.3.6 tspResources TspResources C 0..1 See clause 6.3.4.2 sliceSlaResources SliceSlaResources O 0..1 See clause 6.3.4.3 lbResources LbResources C 0..1 See clause 6.3.4.4 esObjectives EsObjectives C 0..1 See clause 6.3.3.7 esResources EsResources C 0..1 See clause 6.3.4.5
> NOTE: Presence condition "M" means that the data type shall be included in a PolicyObject. Allowed combinations
are listed in clause 7. Presence condition "C" means that at least one Statement (for policy objectives and/or policy resources) shall be included. Presence condition “O” means that the data type can be optionally included in a PolicyObject. This definition is general and indicates how to formally construct a PolicyObject. The policy types in clause 7.2 define PolicyObjects for usage in the A1 service operations defined in A1AP [3], clause 5.3.

#### 6.4.1.2 Allowed combinations

# A Statement can be applied together with a ScopeIdentifier containing different combinations of identifiers attributes. Not all
combinations are relevant and different combinations are relevant for different policy types (see clause 7).

### 6.4.2 Policy status object
A PolicyStatusObject is based on IETF RFC 8259 [6] and contains:
- one enforceStatus attribute; and conditionally
- one enforceReason attribute.
The PolicyStatusObject contains status related attributes as defined in table 6.4.2-1: Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability enforceStatus EnforcementStatusType M 1 See clause 6.2.2 statement indicating enforcement status of policy enforceReason EnforcementReasonType C 0..1 See clause 6.2.2 statement indicating reason for change of enforcement status
> NOTE: Presence condition "M" means that the data type shall be included in a PolicyStatusObject used with the
PolicyObjects defined in the present document. A PolicyObject and a PolicyStatusObject for a future policy type may be defined based on other attributes. Presence condition "C" means that the enforceReason shall only be included in case enforceStatus is NON_ENFORCED.

### 6.4.3 Policy type object
A PolicyTypeObject is based on IETF RFC 8259 [6] and contains:
- one JSON schema for PolicyObject; and optionally
- one JSON schema for PolicyStatusObject.
The type PolicyTypeObject is defined in table 6.4.3-1. Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability policySchema JsonSchema M 1 The schemas are policy type statusSchema JsonSchema O 0..1 specific
> NOTE 1: Clause 7.2 contains definitions and policy type specific schemas for O-RAN defined A1 policy types.
> NOTE 2: The policySchema attribute shall contain the compound policy schema as described in clause 7.1.3.1.
The JSON schema for a PolicyObject is used by the A1-P Producer to validate a PolicyObject during Create policy and Update policy procedures. The JSON schema for a PolicyStatusObject is used by the A1-P Consumer to validate a PolicyStatusObject during Query policy status and Feedback policy procedures. The PolicyTypeObject can be retrieved using the Query policy type procedure.

## 6.5 Binary data
Binary data is not applicable in the present document.

# 7 A1-P data types (A1 policy types)

## 7.1 Introduction

### 7.1.1 Identification and compatibility of policy types
A policy type is identified by a PolicyTypeId as defined in A1AP [3], clause 6.2.3.1.3. The PolicyTypeId is a string that consists of two parts: a typename and a version. When updating a policy type, the version in the PolicyTypeId is updated according to SemVer [19] to reflect its compatibility with other policy types that has the same typename. Two policy types are considered as different if the PolicyTypeId is different, i.e. even if the typename is the same and the version only differs in the patch version digit. Two policy types are compatible in case the typename is the same and the major version digit in the version is the same. In general, two policy types X and Y are compatible when all objects that can be created based on policy type X can be validated by the schemas for policy type Y and all objects that can be created based on policy type Y can be validated by the schemas for policy type X.

### 7.1.2 Common definitions

#### 7.1.2.1 Scope and resource identifiers
An A1 policy type always contains a ScopeIdentifier with data types defined in clause 6.3.1. It may also contain attributes for a resource statement that includes identifiers defined in clauses 6.3.2 and 6.3.4. To enable multiple policy types to be created based on the same identifiers, the policy schemas can link to the same JSON subschema for common data types. Each policy type definition links to a specific version of the common data types schema and the compatibility relations are described in Annex C. The policy types defined in the present document link to the version of the common data types schema defined in the present document. When updating the common data types schema, the version is updated according to SemVer [19]. The $id keyword in the common data types schema contains the version as part of the URI. { "$schema": "https://json-schema.org/draft/2020-12/schema", "$id": "https://schemas.o-ran.org/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0", "description": "scope identifier definitions", "$defs": { "RanUeId": { "type": "string", "pattern": "^[A-Fa-f0-9]{16}$" }, "GroupId": { "oneOf": [ { "type":"object", "properties": { "spId": { "type": "integer", "minimum": 1, "maximum": 256 } }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["spId"] }, { "type": "object", "properties": { "rfspIndex": { "type": "integer", "minimum": 1, "maximum": 256 } }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["rfspIndex"] } ] }, "SliceId": { "type": "object", "properties": { "sst": { "type": "integer", "minimum": 0, "maximum": 255 }, "sd": { "type": "string", "pattern": "^[A-Fa-f0-9]{6}$" }, "plmnId": {"$ref": "#/$defs/PlmnId"} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["sst","plmnId"] }, "QosId": { "oneOf": [ { "type":"object", "properties": { "5qI": { "type": "integer", "minimum": 1, "maximum": 256 } }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["5qI"] }, { "type": "object", "properties": { "qcI": { "type": "integer", "minimum": 1, "maximum": 256 } }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["qcI"] } ] }, "TaIList": { "type":"array", "items": { "$ref": "#/$defs/TaI" }, "minItems": 1 }, "TaI": { "type": "object", "properties": { "plmnId": {"$ref": "#/$defs/PlmnId"}, "tac": { "type": "string", "pattern": "^[A-Fa-f0-9]{6}$" } }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["plmnId","tac"] }, "CellIdList": { "type":"array", "items": { "$ref": "#/$defs/CellId" }, "minItems": 1 }, "CellId": { "type": "object", "properties": { "plmnId": {"$ref": "#/$defs/PlmnId"}, "cId": {"$ref": "#/$defs/CId"} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["plmnId", "cId"] }, "CId": { "oneOf": [ { "type":"object", "properties": { "ncI": {"$ref": "#/$defs/NcI"} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["ncI"] }, { "type": "object", "properties": { "ecI": {"$ref": "#/$defs/EcI"} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["ecI"] } ] }, "NcI": { "type": "integer", "minimum": 0, "maximum": 68719476735 }, "EcI": { "type": "integer", "minimum": 0, "maximum": 268435455 }, "PlmnId": { "type": "object", "properties": { "mcc": { "type": "string", "pattern": "^[0-9]{3}$" }, "mnc": { "type": "string", "pattern": "^[0-9]{2,3}$" } }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["mcc", "mnc"] }, "MmeGroupId": { "type": "string", "pattern": "^[A-Fa-f0-9]{4}$" }, "MmeCode": { "type": "string", "pattern": "^[A-Fa-f0-9]{2}$" }, "GuMmeI": { "type": "object", "properties": { "plmnId": {"$ref": "#/$defs/PlmnId"}, "mmeGroupId": {"$ref": "#/$defs/MmeGroupId"}, "mmeCode": {"$ref": "#/$defs/MmeCode"} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["plmnId", "mmeGroupId", "mmeCode"] }, "MmeUeS1apId": { "type": "integer", "minimum": 0, "maximum": 4294967295 }, "GuMmeUeS1apId": { "type": "object", "properties": { "guMmeI": {"$ref": "#/$defs/GuMmeI"}, "mmeUeS1apId": {"$ref": "#/$defs/MmeUeS1apId"} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["guMmeI", "mmeUeS1apId"] }, "AmfRegionId": { "type": "string", "pattern": "^[A-Fa-f0-9]{2}$" }, "AmfSetId": { "type": "string", "pattern": "^[0-3][A-Fa-f0-9]{2}$" }, "AmfPointer": { "type": "string", "pattern": "^[0-3][A-Fa-f0-9]{1}$" }, "GuAmI": { "type": "object", "properties": { "plmnId": {"$ref": "#/$defs/PlmnId"}, "amfRegionId": {"$ref": "#/$defs/AmfRegionId"}, "amfSetId": {"$ref": "#/$defs/AmfSetId"}, "amfPointer": {"$ref": "#/$defs/AmfPointer"} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["plmnId", "amfRegionId", "amfSetId", "amfPointer"] }, "AmfUeNgapId": { "type": "integer", "minimum": 0, "maximum": 1099511627775 }, "GuAmfUeNgapId": { "type": "object", "properties": { "guAmI": {"$ref": "#/$defs/GuAmI"}, "amfUeNgapId": {"$ref": "#/$defs/AmfUeNgapId"} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["guAmI", "amfUeNgapId"] }, "GnbId": { "type": "object", "properties": { "gnbIdLength": { "type": "integer", "minimum": 22, "maximum": 32 }, "gnbIdValue": { "type": "integer", "minimum": 0, "maximum": 4294967295 } }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["gnbIdLength","gnbIdValue"] }, "GlobalGnbId": { "type": "object", "properties": { "plmnId": {"$ref": "#/$defs/PlmnId"}, "gnbId": {"$ref": "#/$defs/GnbId"} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["plmnId", "gnbId"] }, "GuRanUeId": { "type": "object", "properties": { "globalGnbId": {"$ref": "#/$defs/GlobalGnbId"}, "ranUeId": {"$ref": "#/$defs/RanUeId"} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["globalGnbId", "ranUeId"] }, "GnbCuUeF1apId": { "type": "integer", "minimum": 0, "maximum": 4294967295 }, "GuGnbCuUeF1apId": { "type": "object", "properties": { "globalGnbId": {"$ref": "#/$defs/GlobalGnbId"}, "gnbCuUeF1apId": {"$ref": "#/$defs/GnbCuUeF1apId"} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["globalGnbId", "gnbCuUeF1apId"] }, "GnbCuCpUeE1apId": { "type": "integer", "minimum": 0, "maximum": 4294967295 }, "GuGnbCuCpUeE1apId": { "type": "object", "properties": { "globalGnbId": {"$ref": "#/$defs/GlobalGnbId"}, "gnbCuCpUeE1apId": {"$ref": "#/$defs/GnbCuCpUeE1apId"} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["globalGnbId", "gnbCuCpUeE1apId"] }, "EnbUeX2apId": { "type": "integer", "minimum": 0, "maximum": 4095 }, "EnbId": { "oneOf": [ { "type":"object", "properties": { "macroEnbId": { "type": "string", "pattern": "^[A-Fa-f0-9]{5}$" } }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["macroEnbId"] }, { "type":"object", "properties": { "homeEnbId": { "type": "string", "pattern": "^[A-Fa-f0-9]{7}$" } }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["homeEnbId"] }, { "type":"object", "properties": { "shortMacroEnbId": { "type": "string", "pattern": "^[0-3][A-Fa-f0-9]{4}$" } }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["shortMacroEnbId"] }, { "type":"object", "properties": { "longMacroEnbId": { "type": "string", "pattern": "^[0-1][A-Fa-f0-9]{5}$" } }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["longMacroEnbId"] } ] }, "GlobalEnbId": { "type": "object", "properties": { "plmnId": {"$ref": "#/$defs/PlmnId"}, "enbId": {"$ref": "#/$defs/EnbId"} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["plmnId", "enbId"] }, "GuEnbUeX2apId": { "type": "object", "properties": { "globalEnbId": {"$ref": "#/$defs/GlobalEnbId"}, "enbUeX2apId": {"$ref": "#/$defs/EnbUeX2apId"} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["globalEnbId", "enbUeX2apId"] }, "NgRanNodeUeXnapId": { "type": "integer", "minimum": 0, "maximum": 4294967295 }, "NgEnbId": { "oneOf": [ { "type":"object", "properties": { "macroNgEnbId": { "type": "integer", "minimum": 0, "maximum": 1048575 } }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["macroNgEnbId"] }, { "type":"object", "properties": { "shortMacroNgEnbId": { "type": "integer", "minimum": 0, "maximum": 262143 } }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["shortMacroNgEnbId"] }, { "type":"object", "properties": { "longMacroNgEnbId": { "type": "integer", "minimum": 0, "maximum": 2097151 } }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["longMacroNgEnbId"] } ] }, "GlobalNgEnbId": { "type": "object", "properties": { "plmnId": {"$ref": "#/$defs/PlmnId"}, "ngEnbId": {"$ref": "#/$defs/NgEnbId"} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["plmnId", "ngEnbId"] }, "GlobalNgRanNodeId": { "oneOf": [ { "type":"object", "properties": { "globalGnbId": {"$ref": "#/$defs/GlobalGnbId"} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["globalGnbId"] }, { "type":"object", "properties": { "globalNgEnbId": {"$ref": "#/$defs/GlobalNgEnbId"} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["globalNgEnbId"] } ] }, "GuNgRanNodeUeXnapUeId": { "type": "object", "properties": { "globalNgRanNodebId": {"$ref": "#/$defs/GlobalNgRanNodeId"}, "ngRanNodeUeXnapId": {"$ref": "#/$defs/NgRanNodeUeXnapId"} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["globalNgRanNodebId", "ngRanNodeUeXnapId"] }, "UeId": { "oneOf": [ { "type":"object", "properties": { "guRanUeId": {"$ref": "#/$defs/GuRanUeId"} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["guRanUeId"] }, { "type":"object", "properties": { "guAmfUeNgapId": {"$ref": "#/$defs/GuAmfUeNgapId"} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["guAmfUeNgapId"] }, { "type":"object", "properties": { "guMmeUeS1apId": {"$ref": "#/$defs/GuMmeUeS1apId"} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["guMmeUeS1apId"] }, { "type":"object", "properties": { "guGnbCuUeF1apId": {"$ref": "#/$defs/GuGnbCuUeF1apId"} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["guGnbCuUeF1apId"] }, { "type":"object", "properties": { "guGnbCuCpUeE1apId": {"$ref": "#/$defs/GuGnbCuCpUeE1apId"} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["guGnbCuCpUeE1apId"] }, { "type":"object", "properties": { "guEnbUeX2apId": {"$ref": "#/$defs/GuEnbUeX2apId"} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["guEnbUeX2apId"] }, { "type":"object", "properties": { "guNgRanNodeUeXnapUeId": {"$ref": "#/$defs/GuNgRanNodeUeXnapUeId"} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["guNgRanNodeUeXnapUeId"] } ] } } }

#### 7.1.2.2 Policy status
This is a generic policy status schema, it may be adjusted and used together with a policy schema in a PolicyTypeObject and will then be identified by the same policy type identifier as the policy schema. { "$schema": "https://json-schema.org/draft/2020-12/schema", "description": "O-RAN standard policy status", "type": "object", "properties": { "enforceStatus": { "type": "string", "enum": [ "ENFORCED", "NOT_ENFORCED" ] }, "enforceReason": { "type": "string", "enum": [ "SCOPE_NOT_APPLICABLE", "STATEMENT_NOT_APPLICABLE", "OTHER_REASON" ] } }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["enforceStatus"] }

### 7.1.3 Schema identification

#### 7.1.3.1 General
The policy schemas defined in clause 7.2 (e.g. policy schema for QoS target in clause 7.2.1.3.1) are base schemas that embed a subschema with common data types definitions. The base schemas can be used for creating or validating A1 policies after embedding the content of the linked common data types schema. A schema resulting from embedding the content of a linked subschema into a base schema is referred to as a compound schema document, see JSON Schema Draft 2020-12 [7]. It is the compound policy schemas that are identified by the policy type identifier and included in the PolicyTypeObject specified in clause 6.4.3. The base schema and the linked subschema together represent the same JSON schema as the compound schema created by embedding the linked subschema into the base schema at the place where it is linked. Hence, the versions of a compound policy schema and its base policy schema are the same, and is indicated in the policy type identifier. The policy type identifier is part of the $id keyword included in the policy schema. The $id keyword of the embedded subschemas are included in the subschema.

#### 7.1.3.2 Schema URI structure
The base URI for A1 policy types and embedded schemas is: {uriRoot}/a1td where uriRoot follows an absolute URI syntax, but excludes the "query" component. The URI root contains the "scheme" component and may contain an "authority" component and may also contain a prefix subcomponent. The $id keyword for the policy schemas are constructed from the base URI and the policy type identifier: {uriRoot}/a1td/<policyTypeId> The $id keyword for the subschema with common data types is constructed from the base URI, the name "common", and the version (x.y.z): {uriRoot}/a1td/common_<x.y.z>. In the JSON schemas defined in the present document, the default uriRoot is: https://schemas.o-ran.org/jsonschemas

## 7.2 Policy type definitions

### 7.2.1 QoS target

#### 7.2.1.1 Policy type identifier
PolicyTypeId: ORAN_QoSTarget_6.0.0

#### 7.2.1.2 Rationale

##### 7.2.1.2.1 Use case
See Non-RT RIC & A1/R1 interface: Use Cases and Requirements [1], clause 4.3.

##### 7.2.1.2.2 Statements, restrictions and extensions

# A QoS statement can be applied together with ScopeIdentifier containing different combinations of identifiers. Not all
combinations are relevant. Table 7.2.1.2.2-1 indicates the combinations that are allowed. ScopeIdentifier ueId groupId sliceId qosId cellId Policy statement qosObjectives 1 0..1 0 1 0..1 qosObjectives 1 0 0..1 1 0..1 qosObjectives 0 1 0 1 0..1 qosObjectives 0 0 1 1 0..1 qosObjectives 0 0 0 1 0..1
> NOTE: on each row is listed a combination of identifiers that is allowed for the indicated statement.
Notation is the same as for cardinality: "0" means the identifier shall not occur, "0..1" means the identifier may occur and "1" means the identifier shall occur. Only at most one occurrence of an identifier is allowed in the present version.

#### 7.2.1.3 JSON schemas

##### 7.2.1.3.1 Policy schema
{ "$schema": "https://json-schema.org/draft/2020-12/schema", "$id": "https://schemas.o-ran.org/jsonschemas/a1td/oran_qostarget_6.0.0", "description": "O-RAN standard QoS Target policy", "type": "object", "properties": { "scope": { "anyOf": [ { "type": "object", "properties": { "ueId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/UeId"}, "groupId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/GroupId"}, "qosId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/QosId"}, "cellId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/CellId"} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["ueId", "qosId"] }, { "type": "object", "properties": { "ueId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/UeId"}, "sliceId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/SliceId"}, "qosId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/QosId"}, "cellId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/CellId"} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["ueId", "qosId"] }, { "type": "object", "properties": { "groupId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/GroupId"}, "qosId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/QosId"}, "cellId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/CellId"} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["groupId", "qosId"] }, { "type": "object", "properties": { "sliceId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/SliceId"}, "qosId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/QosId"}, "cellId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/CellId"} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["sliceId", "qosId"] }, { "type": "object", "properties": { "qosId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/QosId"}, "cellId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/CellId"} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["qosId"] } ] }, "qosObjectives": { "type": "object", "properties": { "gfbr": {"type": "number"}, "mfbr": {"type": "number"}, "priorityLevel": {"type": "number"}, "pdb": {"type": "number"} }, "minProperties": 1, "additionalProperties": false } }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["scope", "qosObjectives"], "$defs": { "https://schemas.o-ran.org/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0": } }

##### 7.2.1.3.2 Policy status schema
The generic policy status schema in clause 7.1.2.2 is used.

### 7.2.2 QoE target

#### 7.2.2.1 Policy type identifier
PolicyTypeId: ORAN_QoETarget_6.0.0

#### 7.2.2.2 Rationale

##### 7.2.2.2.1 Use case
See Non-RT RIC & A1/R1 interface: Use Cases and Requirements [1], clause 4.2.

##### 7.2.2.2.2 Statements, restrictions and extensions

# A QoE statement can be applied together with ScopeIdentifier containing different combinations of identifiers. Not all
combinations are relevant. Table 7.2.2.2.2-1 indicates the combinations that are allowed. ScopeIdentifier ueId groupId sliceId qosId cellId Policy statement qoeObjectives 1 0 1 0..1 0..1 qoeObjectives 1 0 0 1 0..1 qoeObjectives 0 0 1 0..1 0..1 qoeObjectives 0 0 0 1 0..1
> NOTE: on each row is listed a combination of identifiers that is allowed for the indicated statement.
Notation is the same as for caridinality: "0" means the identifier shall not occur, "0..1" means the identifier may occur and "1" means the identifier shall occur. Only at most one occurrence of an identifier is allowed in the present version.

#### 7.2.2.3 JSON schemas

##### 7.2.2.3.1 Policy schema
{ "$schema": "https://json-schema.org/draft/2020-12/schema", "$id": "https://schemas.o-ran.org/jsonschemas/a1td/oran_qoetarget_6.0.0", "description": "O-RAN standard QoE Target policy", "type": "object", "properties": { "scope": { "anyOf": [ { "type": "object", "properties": { "ueId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/UeId"}, "sliceId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/SliceId"}, "qosId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/QosId"}, "cellId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/CellId"} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["ueId", "sliceId"] }, { "type": "object", "properties": { "ueId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/UeId"}, "qosId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/QosId"}, "cellId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/CellId"} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["ueId", "qosId"] }, { "type": "object", "properties": { "sliceId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/SliceId"}, "qosId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/QosId"}, "cellId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/CellId"} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["sliceId"] }, { "type": "object", "properties": { "qosId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/QosId"}, "cellId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/CellId"} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["qosId"] } ] }, "qoeObjectives": { "type": "object", "properties": { "qoeScore": {"type": "number"}, "initialBuffering": {"type": "number"}, "reBuffFreq": {"type": "number"}, "stallRatio": {"type": "number"} }, "minProperties": 1, "additionalProperties": false } }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["scope", "qoeObjectives"], "$defs": { "https://schemas.o-ran.org/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0": } }

##### 7.2.2.3.2 Policy status schema
The generic policy status schema in clause 7.1.2.2 is used.

### 7.2.3 Traffic steering preferences

#### 7.2.3.1 Policy type identifier
PolicyTypeId: ORAN_TrafficSteeringPreference_6.0.0

#### 7.2.3.2 Rationale

##### 7.2.3.2.1 Use case
See in Non-RT RIC & A1/R1 interface: Use Cases and Requirements [1], clause 4.1.

##### 7.2.3.2.2 Statements, restrictions and extensions

# A TSP statement can be applied together with ScopeIdentifier containing different combinations of identifiers. Not all
combinations are relevant. Table 7.2.3.2.2-1 indicates combinations that are allowed. ScopeIdentifier ueId groupId sliceId qosId cellId Policy statement tspResources 1 0 0..1 0..1 0..1 tspResources 0 0 1 0..1 0..1
> NOTE: on each row is listed a combination of identifiers that is allowed for the indicated statement.
Notation is the same as for caridinality: “0” means the identifier shall not occur, “0..1” means the identifier may occur and “1” means the identifier shall occur. Only at most one occurrence of an identifier is allowed in the present version.

#### 7.2.3.3 JSON schemas

##### 7.2.3.3.1 Policy schema
{ "$schema": "https://json-schema.org/draft/2020-12/schema", "$id": "https://schemas.o-ran.org/jsonschemas/a1td/oran_ trafficsteeringpreference_6.0.0" "description": "O-RAN standard Traffic Steering Preference policy", "type": "object", "properties": { "scope": { "anyOf": [ { "type": "object", "properties": { "ueId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/UeId"}, "sliceId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/SliceId"}, "qosId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/QosId"}, "cellId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/CellId"} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["ueId"] }, { "type": "object", "properties": { "sliceId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/SliceId"}, "qosId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/QosId"}, "cellId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/CellId"} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["sliceId"] } ] }, "tspResources": { "type": "array", "items": { "$ref": "#/$defs/TspResource" }, "minItems": 1 } }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["scope", "tspResources"], "$defs": { "PreferenceType": { "type": "string", "enum": [ "SHALL", "PREFER", "AVOID", "FORBID" ] }, "TspResource": { "type": "object", "properties": { "cellIdList": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/CellIdList"}, "preference": {"$ref": "#/$defs/PreferenceType"}, "primary": {"type": "boolean"} }, "required": ["cellIdList", "preference"], "additionalProperties": false }, "https://schemas.o-ran.org/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0": } }

##### 7.2.3.3.2 Policy status schema
The generic policy status schema in clause 7.1.2.2 is used.

### 7.2.4 QoS optimization with resource directive

#### 7.2.4.1 Policy type identifier
PolicyTypeId: ORAN_QoSandTSP_6.0.0

#### 7.2.4.2 Rationale

##### 7.2.4.2.1 Use case
Addresses both the use cases specified in Non-RT RIC & A1/R1 interface: Use Cases and Requirements [1], clauses 4.3 and 4.1.

##### 7.2.4.2.2 Statements, restrictions and extensions
The allowed combinations of ScopeIdentifier and statements is the common subset of those defined for the policy type QoS Target and the policy type Traffic Steering Preferences.

#### 7.2.4.3 JSON schemas

##### 7.2.4.3.1 Policy schema
{ "$schema": "https://json-schema.org/draft/2020-12/schema", "$id": "https://schemas.o-ran.org/jsonschemas/a1td/oran_qosandtsp_6.0.0", "description": "O-RAN standard QoS Target and Traffic Steering Preference policy", "type": "object", "properties": { "scope": { "anyOf": [ { "type": "object", "properties": { "ueId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/UeId"}, "sliceId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/SliceId"}, "qosId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/QosId"}, "cellId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/CellId"} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["ueId", "qosId"] }, { "type": "object", "properties": { "sliceId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/SliceId"}, "qosId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/QosId"}, "cellId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/CellId"} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["sliceId", "qosId"] } ] }, "qosObjectives": { "type": "object", "properties": { "gfbr": {"type": "number"}, "mfbr": {"type": "number"}, "priorityLevel": {"type": "number"}, "pdb": {"type": "number"} }, "minProperties": 1, "additionalProperties": false }, "tspResources": { "type": "array", "items": { "$ref": "#/$defs/TspResource" }, "minItems": 1 } }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["scope", "qosObjectives", "tspResources"], "$defs": { "PreferenceType": { "type": "string", "enum": [ "SHALL", "PREFER", "AVOID", "FORBID" ] }, "TspResource": { "type": "object", "properties": { "cellIdList": {"$ref": "#/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0/$defs/CellIdList"}, "preference": {"$ref": "#/$defs/PreferenceType"}, "primary": {"type": "boolean"} }, "required": ["cellIdList", "preference"], "additionalProperties": false }, "https://schemas.o-ran.org/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0": } }

##### 7.2.4.3.2 Policy status schema
The generic policy status schema in clause 7.1.2.2 is used.

### 7.2.5 QoE optimization with resource directive

#### 7.2.5.1 Policy type identifier
PolicyTypeId: ORAN_QoEandTSP_6.0.0

#### 7.2.5.2 Rationale

##### 7.2.5.2.1 Use case
Addresses both the use cases specified in Non-RT RIC & A1/R1 interface: Use Cases and Requirements [1], clauses 4.2 and 4.1.

##### 7.2.5.2.2 Statements, restrictions and extensions
The allowed combinations of ScopeIdentifier and statements is the common subset of those defined for the policy type QoE Target and the policy type Traffic Steering Preferences.

#### 7.2.5.3 JSON schemas

##### 7.2.5.3.1 Policy schema
{ "$schema": "https://json-schema.org/draft/2020-12/schema", "$id": "https://schemas.o-ran.org/jsonschemas/a1td/oran_qoeandtsp_6.0.0", "description": "O-RAN standard QoE Target and Traffic Steering Preference policy", "type": "object", "properties": { "scope": { "anyOf": [ { "type": "object", "properties": { "ueId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/UeId"}, "sliceId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/SliceId"}, "qosId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/QosId"}, "cellId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/CellId"} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["ueId", "sliceId"] }, { "type": "object", "properties": { "ueId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/UeId"}, "qosId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/QosId"}, "cellId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/CellId"} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["ueId", "qosId"] }, { "type": "object", "properties": { "sliceId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/SliceId"}, "qosId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/QosId"}, "cellId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/CellId"} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["sliceId"] } ] }, "qoeObjectives": { "type": "object", "properties": { "qoeScore": {"type": "number"}, "initialBuffering": {"type": "number"}, "reBuffFreq": {"type": "number"}, "stallRatio": {"type": "number"} }, "minProperties": 1, "additionalProperties": false }, "tspResources": { "type": "array", "items": { "$ref": "#/$defs/TspResource" }, "minItems": 1 } }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["scope", "qoeObjectives", "tspResources"], "$defs": { "PreferenceType": { "type": "string", "enum": [ "SHALL", "PREFER", "AVOID", "FORBID" ] }, "TspResource": { "type": "object", "properties": { "cellIdList": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/CellIdList"}, "preference": {"$ref": "#/$defs/PreferenceType"}, "primary": {"type": "boolean"} }, "required": ["cellIdList", "preference"], "additionalProperties": false }, "https://schemas.o-ran.org/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0": } }

##### 7.2.5.3.2 Policy status schema
The generic policy status schema in clause 7.1.2.2 is used.

### 7.2.6 UE level target

#### 7.2.6.1 Policy type identifier
PolicyTypeId: ORAN_UELevelTarget_5.0.0

#### 7.2.6.2 Rationale

##### 7.2.6.2.1 Use case
Addresses the use case specified in Non-RT RIC & A1/R1 interface: Use Cases and Requirements [1], clause 4.3.

##### 7.2.6.2.2 Statements, restrictions and extensions

# A UE level statement can be applied together with scope identifiers containing different combinations of identifiers. Not all
combinations are relevant. Table 7.2.6.2.2-1 indicates the combinations that are allowed. Scope identifier ueId groupId sliceId qosId cellId Policy statement ueLevelObjectives 1 0..1 0..1 0 0..1 ueLevelObjectives 1 0..1 0..1 1 0..1 ueLevelObjectives 1 0 1 0..1 0..1
> NOTE: on each row is listed a combination of identifiers that is allowed for the indicated statement. Notation
is the same as for caridinality: "0" means the identifier shall not occur, "0..1" means the identifier may occur and "1" means the identifier shall occur. Only at most one occurrence of an identifier is allowed in the present version.

#### 7.2.6.3 JSON schemas

##### 7.2.6.3.1 Policy schema
{ "$schema": "https://json-schema.org/draft/2020-12/schema", "$id": "https://schemas.o-ran.org/jsonschemas/a1td/oran_ueleveltarget_5.0.0", "description": "O-RAN standard UE Level Target policy", "type": "object", "properties": { "scope": { "anyOf": [ { "type": "object", "properties": { "ueId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/UeId"}, "groupId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/GroupId"}, "sliceId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/SliceId"}, "cellId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/CellId"} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["ueId"] }, { "type": "object", "properties": { "ueId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/UeId"}, "groupId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/GroupId"}, "sliceId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/SliceId"}, "qosId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/QosId"}, "cellId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/CellId"} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["ueId", "qosId"] }, { "type": "object", "properties": { "ueId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/UeId"}, "sliceId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/SliceId"}, "qosId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/QosId"}, "cellId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/CellId"} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["ueId", "sliceId"] } ] }, "ueLevelObjectives": { "type": "object", "properties": { "ulThroughput": {"type": "number"}, "dlThroughput": {"type": "number"}, "ulPacketDelay": {"type": "number"}, "dlPacketDelay": {"type": "number"}, "ulPdcpSduPacketLossRate": {"type": "number"}, "dlRlcSduPacketLossRate ": {"type": "number"}, "dlReliability": {"$ref": "#/$defs/ReliabilityType"}, "ulReliability": {"$ref": "#/$defs/ReliabilityType"} }, "minProperties": 1, "additionalProperties": false } }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["scope", "ueLevelObjectives"], "$defs": { "ReliabilityType": { "type": "object", "properties": { "packetSize": {"type": "number"}, "userPlaneLatency": {"type": "number"}, "successProbility": {"type": "number"} }, "required": ["packetSize","userPlaneLatency","successProbility"] }, "https://schemas.o-ran.org/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0": } }

##### 7.2.6.3.2 Policy status schema
The generic policy status schema in clause 7.1.2.2 is used.

### 7.2.7 Slice SLA target

#### 7.2.7.1 Policy type identifier
PolicyTypeId: ORAN_SliceSLATarget_4.0.1

#### 7.2.7.2 Rationale

##### 7.2.7.2.1 Use case
See Non-RT RIC and A1/R1 interface: Use Cases and Requirements [1], clause 4.5.

##### 7.2.7.2.2 Statements, restrictions and extensions
The sliceSlaObjectives statement can be applied together with ScopeIdentifier containing sliceId identifier. Table 7.2.7.2.2-1 indicates the combination that is allowed. ScopeIdentifier ueId groupId sliceId qosId cellId Policy statement sliceSlaObjectives 0 0 1 0 0
> NOTE: "0" means the identifier shall not occur, "1" means the identifier shall occur.
The sliceSlaResources statement can optionally be applied together with sliceSlaObjectives statement.

#### 7.2.7.3 JSON schemas

##### 7.2.7.3.1 Policy schema
{ "$schema": "https://json-schema.org/draft/2020-12/schema", "$id": "https://schemas.o-ran.org/jsonschemas/a1td/oran_sliceslatarget_4.0.1", "description": "O-RAN standard slice SLA policy", "type": "object", "properties": { "scope": { "type": "object", "properties": { "sliceId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/SliceId"} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["sliceId"] }, "sliceSlaObjectives": { "type": "object", "properties": { "maxNumberOfUes": {"type": "number"}, "maxNumberOfPduSessions": {"type": "number"}, "guaDlThptPerSlice": {"type": "number"}, "maxDlThptPerSlice": {"type": "number"}, "maxDlThptPerUe": {"type": "number"}, "guaUlThptPerSlice": {"type": "number"}, "maxUlThptPerSlice": {"type": "number"}, "maxUlThptPerUe": {"type": "number"}, "maxDlPacketDelayPerUe": {"type": "number"}, "maxUlPacketDelayPerUe": {"type": "number"}, "maxDlPdcpSduPacketLossRatePerUe": { "type": "number", "minimum": 0, "maximum": 1 }, "maxUlRlcSduPacketLossRatePerUe": { "type": "number", "minimum": 0, "maximum": 1 }, "minDlReliabilityPerUe": {"$ref": "#/$defs/ReliabilityType"}, "minUlReliabilityPerUe": {"$ref": "#/$defs/ReliabilityType"}, "maxDlJitterPerUe": {"type": "number"}, "maxUlJitterPerUe": {"type": "number"}, "dlSlicePriority": { "type": "number", "minimum": 1 }, "ulSlicePriority": { "type": "number", "minimum": 1 }, "maxDlPktSize": {"$type": "number"}, "maxUlPktSize": {"$type": "number"} }, "minProperties": 1, "additionalProperties": false }, "sliceSlaResources": { "type": "object", "properties": { "cellIdList": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/CellIdList"}, "taIList": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/TaIList"} }, "additionalProperties": false, "oneOf": [ {"required": ["cellIdList"]}, {"required": ["taIList"]} ] } }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["scope", "sliceSlaObjectives"], "$defs": { "ReliabilityType": { "type": "object", "properties": { "packetSize": {"type": "number"}, "userPlaneLatency": {"type": "number"}, " successProbability": { "type": "number", "minimum": 0, "maximum": 1 } }, "required": ["packetSize","userPlaneLatency"," successProbability"] }, "https://schemas.o-ran.org/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0": } }

##### 7.2.7.3.2 Policy status schema
The generic policy status schema in clause 7.1.2.2 is used.

### 7.2.8 Load balancing

#### 7.2.8.1 Policy type identifier
PolicyTypeId: ORAN_LoadBalancing_3.0.0

#### 7.2.8.2 Rationale

##### 7.2.8.2.1 Use case
See Non-RT RIC & A1/R1 interface: Use Cases and Requirements [1], clause 4.5.

##### 7.2.8.2.2 Statements, restrictions and extensions
A lbObjectives statement can be applied together with ScopeIdentifier containing different combinations of identifiers. Not all combinations are relevant. Table 7.2.8.2.2-1 indicates the combinations that are allowed. ScopeIdentifier is used to designate a cell from which load needs to be transferred to other cells. If sliceId is applied together with cellId, only a part of the load associated with a designated slice among the cell load is transferred to other cells. ScopeIdentifier also indicates the measurement range for calculating the load specified by ulPrbUsgType and dlPrbUsgType in lbObjectives statement. If only cellId is applied, applicable values for ulPrbUsgType and dlPrbUsgType are 1-2. If sliceId is applied together with cellId, applicable values for ulPrbUsgType and dlPrbUsgType are 3-4. Regardless of the combination of ScopeIdentifier and lbObjectives statement, lbResources statement indicates the target cells to which the load is transferred. ScopeIdentifier ueId groupId sliceId qosId cellId Policy statement lbObjectives 0 0 0..1 0 1
> NOTE: on each row is listed a combination of identifiers that is allowed for the indicated statement.
Notation is the same as for caridinality: "0" means the identifier shall not occur, "0..1" means the identifier may occur and "1" means the identifier shall occur. Only at most one occurrence of an identifier is allowed in the present version. The lbObjectives statement is applied together with lbResources statement.

#### 7.2.8.3 JSON schemas

##### 7.2.8.3.1 Policy schema
{ "$schema": "https://json-schema.org/draft/2020-12/schema", "$id": "https://schemas.o-ran.org/jsonschemas/a1td/oran_loadbalancing_3.0.0", "description": "O-RAN standard Load Balancing policy", "type": "object", "properties": { "scope": { "anyOf": [ { "type": "object", "properties": { "sliceId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/SliceId"}, "cellId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/CellId"} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["cellId"] } ] }, "lbObjectives": { "anyOf": [ { "type": "object", "properties": { "dlLbObjective": {"$ref": "#/$defs/DlLbObjective"}, "ulLbObjective": {"$ref": "#/$defs/UlLbObjective"} }, "maxProperties": 2, "additionalProperties": false, "required":[ "dlLbObjective", "ulLbObjective"] }, { "type": "object", properties": { "dlLbObjective": {"$ref": "#/$defs/DlLbObjective"} }, "maxProperties": 1, "additionalProperties": false, "required":[ "dlLbObjective"] }, { "type": "object", "properties": { "ulLbObjective": {"$ref": "#/$defs/UlLbObjective"} }, "maxProperties": 1, "additionalProperties": false, "required":[ "ulLbObjective"] } ] }, "lbResources": { "type": "object", "properties": { "cellIdList": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/CellIdList"} }, "required": ["cellIdList"], "additionalProperties": false } }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["scope", "lbResources", "lbObjectives"], "$defs": { "DlLbObjective": { "type": "object", "properties": { "dlTargetPrbUsg": { "type": "number", "minimum": 0, "maximum": 100 }, "dlPrbUsgType": { "type": "number", "minimum": 1, "maximum": 4 } }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["dlTargetPrbUsg", "dlPrbUsgType"] }, "UlLbObjective": { "type": "object", "properties": { "ulTargetPrbUsg": { "type": "number", "minimum": 0, "maximum": 100 }, "ulPrbUsgType": { "type": "number", "minimum": 1, "maximum": 4 } }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["ulTargetPrbUsg", "ulPrbUsgType"] }, "https://schemas.o-ran.org/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0": } }

### 7.2.9 Energy Savings

#### 7.2.9.1 Policy type identifier
PolicyTypeId: ORAN_EnergySaving_3.0.1

#### 7.2.9.2 Rationale

##### 7.2.9.2.1 Use case
See Non-RT RIC & A1 interface: Use Cases and Requirements [1], clause 4.8.

##### 7.2.9.2.2 Statements, restrictions and extensions
An energy saving statement (i.e. esObjectives and/or esResources) can be applied together with ScopeIdentifier containing different combinations of identifiers. Not all combinations are relevant. The following table indicates combinations that are allowed. ScopeIdentifier ueId groupId qosId taIList cellId cellIdList Policy statement esObjectives / esResources 0 0 0 0 1 0 esObjectives / esResources 0 0 0 0 0 1 esObjectives / esResources 0 0 0 1 0 0
> NOTE 1: On each row is listed a combination of identifiers that is allowed for the
indicated statement. Notation is the same as for cardinality: "0" means the identifier shall not occur, "0..1" means the identifier may occur and "1" means the identifier shall occur. Only at most one occurrence of an identifier is allowed in the present version.
> NOTE 2 : When ScopeIdentifier contains taIList or cellIdList, and esResources is present,
the cells indicated in esResources should be a subset of the cells implied by the ScopeIdentifier.

#### 7.2.9.3 JSON schemas

##### 7.2.9.3.1 Policy schema
{ "$schema": "https://json-schema.org/draft/2020-12/schema", "$id": "https://schemas.o-ran.org/jsonschemas/a1td/oran_energysaving_3.0.1", "description": "O-RAN standard Energy saving policy", "type": "object", "properties": { "scope": { "anyOf": [ { "type": "object", "properties": { "cellId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/CellId"} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["cellId"] }, { "type": "object", "properties": { "cellIdList": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/CellIdList"} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["cellIdList"] }, { "type": "object", "properties": { "taIList": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/TaIList"} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["taIList"] } ] }, "esObjectives": { "oneOf": [ { "type": "object", "properties": { "targetPeeEnergy": {"type": "integer"} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["targetPeeEnergy"] }, { "type": "object", "properties": { "esPercentage": { "type": "integer", "minimum": 0, "maximum": 100 } }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["esPercentage"] } ] }, "esResources": { "type": "array", "items": {"$ref": "#/$defs/EsResource"}, "minItems": 1 } }, "additionalProperties": false, "anyOf": [ {"required": ["scope","esObjectives"]}, {"required": ["scope","esResources"]} ], "$defs": { "AvoidanceType": { "type": "string", "enum": [ "AVOID", "FORBID" ] }, "EsResource": { "oneOf": [ { "type": "object", "properties": { "operationalCells": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/CellIdList"}, "operationalPreference": {"$ref": "#/$defs/AvoidanceType"}, "dlPrbUsage": {"type": "integer", "minimum": 0, "maximum": 100}, "ulPrbUsage": {"type": "integer", "minimum": 0, "maximum": 100} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["operationalCells","operationalPreference"] }, { "type": "object", "properties": { "coverageCells": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/CellIdList"}, "coveragePreference": {"$ref": "#/$defs/AvoidanceType"}, "dlPrbUsage": {"type": "integer", "minimum": 0, "maximum": 100}, "ulPrbUsage": {"type": "integer", "minimum": 0, "maximum": 100} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["coverageCells","coveragePreference"] }, { "type": "object", "properties": { "operationalCells": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/CellIdList"}, "operationalPreference": {"$ref": "#/$defs/AvoidanceType"}, "coverageCells": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/CellIdList"}, "coveragePreference": {"$ref": "#/$defs/AvoidanceType"}, "dlPrbUsage": {"type": "integer", "minimum": 0, "maximum": 100}, "ulPrbUsage": {"type": "integer", "minimum": 0, "maximum": 100} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["operationalCells", "operationalPreference", "coverageCells", "coveragePreference"] } ] }, "https://schemas.o-ran.org/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0": } }

##### 7.2.9.3.2 Policy status schema
The generic policy status schema in clause 7.1.2.2 is used.

# 8 A1-EI data model

## 8.1 Introduction
This clause specifies the application data model supported by the A1-EI API specified in A1AP [3], clause 6.3. The purpose of the data model is to be the basis for
- definition of EI types; and
- the EI representation objects that are transported in the body of the A1-EI procedures.
There are two kinds of EI types: those defined by O-RAN and those defined by another entity. EI types need to define:
- an EiTypeIdentifier for usage in the A1-EI procedures and URI structure; and
- the content to be transported in the body of the A1-EI procedures.
The content is referred to as EI representation objects for the O-RAN defined EI types and is defined by using the A1-EI data model specified in this clause. An EI type defined outside of O-RAN may use the A1-EI data model or another model that covers the content corresponding to the schemas and objects. The present document covers the data model for O-RAN defined EI types. The O-RAN defined EI types are based on the statements and attributes defined in the data model and may extend it with EI type specific rules and attributes. The O-RAN defined EI types are defined based on JSON Schema [7]. An EI type is defined by four schemas for EI job definition, EI job constraints, EI job status and EI job result. The schemas are used to validate the EI representation objects transferred in the body of the A1-EI procedures.

## 8.2 Simple data types and enumerations

### 8.2.1 Simple data types
The EI job contains URIs for EI job status notifications and EI job results. The simple data types for callback URIs are defined in table 8.2.1-1. Type Name Type Definition Description Applicability JobStatusNotificationUri string target URI for EI job status notifcations provided in EI Job object and used in the Notify EI job notification procedure JobResultUri string target URI for EI job results provided in EI Job object and used in the Deliver EI job result procedure The simple data type for JSON schemas is defined in table 8.2.1-2. Type Name Type Definition Description Applicability JsonSchema https://json-schema.org/draft/2020- A JSON schema meta-schema 12/schema following JSON Schema [7]

### 8.2.2 Enumerations

#### 8.2.2.1 JobStatusType
The enumeration JobStatusType represents if an EI job is confirmed to deliver EI results. It shall comply with the provisions defined in table 8.2.2.1-1. Enumeration value Description Applicability ENABLED the EI Job is enabled the A1-EI producer is able to deliver EI result for the EI Job DISABLED the EI Job is disabled the A1-EI producer is not able to deliver EI result for the EI Job

#### 8.2.2.2 GadShapeType
The enumeration GadShapeType represents the different types or shapes of geographic areas. It shall comply with the provisions defined in table 8.2.2.2-1. Enumeration value Description Applicability POINT Ellipsoid point POINT_UNCERTAINTY_CIRCLE Ellipsoid point with uncertainty circle POINT_UNCERTAINTY_ELLIPSE Ellipsoid point with uncertainty ellipse POLYGON Polygon POINT_ALTITUDE Ellipsoid point with altitude POINT_ALTITUDE_UNCERTAINTY Ellipsoid point with altitude and uncertainty ellipsoid ELLIPSOID_ARC Ellipsoid arc

#### 8.2.2.3 VelocityDescType
The enumeration VelocityDescType represents the different types of UE velocity descriptions. It shall comply with the provisions defined in table 8.2.2.3-1. Enumeration value Description Applicability H_VELOCITY Horizontal velocity HV_VELOCITY Horizontal and vertical velocity H_VELOCITY_UNCERTAINTY Horizontal velocity with uncertainty HV_VELOCITY_UNCERTAINTY Horizontal and vertical velocity with uncertainty

## 8.3 Structured data types

### 8.3.1 ScopeIdentifier
The ScopeIdentifier is EI type specific. If the ScopeIdentifier contains attributes corresponding to the A1 policy ScopeIdentifier, they are the same as defined for A1- P, see clause 6.3.1.

### 8.3.2 Statements for EI job definition

#### 8.3.2.1 Introduction
This clause defines the structured data type and attributes to be used for EI job definition, which are summarized in table 8.3.2.1-1. Data type Clause defined Description Applicability UeGeoandVelEIDescription 8.3.2.2 EI job definition for UE geo-location and velocity information

#### 8.3.2.2 UE geo-location and velocity information
The UEGeoandVelEIDescription statement contains the attributes defined in table 8.3.2.2-1: Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability gadShape GadShapeType M 1 GAD shapes used for UE geo- location information, see clause 8.2.2.2 velocityDesc VelocityDescType O 1 Type of description for UE velocity information, see clause 8.2.2.3 granularityPeriod integer M 1 Interval of periodic measurement in milliseconds reportingPeriod integer M 1 Interval of periodic reporting in milliseconds reportingAmount integer M 1 Number of periodic reports
> NOTE: Event-triggered measurement and reporting is not specified in the present document.

### 8.3.3 Statements for EI job result

#### 8.3.3.1 Introduction
This clause defines the structured data type and attributes to be used for EI job result definition, which are summarized in table 8.3.3.1-1. Data type Clause defined Description Applicability UeGeoandVelEIResult 8.3.3.2 EI job result definition for UE geo-location and velocity information

#### 8.3.3.2 UE geo-location and velocity EI
The UEGeoandVelEIResult statement contains the attributes defined in table 8.3.3.2-1: Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability timeStamp DateTime M 1 Indicates the UTC time corresponds to the UE geo- location and velocity enrichment information, see 3GPP TS 29.571 [5], clause 5.2.2. ueId UeId M 1 UE identifier, see clause 6.3.1.7. gadShape GadShapeType M 1 GAD shapes used for UE geo-location information, see clause 8.2.2.2 geoLocation GeoLocationType M 1 Indicates the UE geo- location enrichment information, see table 8.3.2.2-2 velocityDesc VelocityDescType O 0..1 Type of description for UE velocity information, see clause 8.2.2.3 velocity VelocityType C 0..1 Indicates the UE velocity enrichment information, see table 8.3.2.2-3
> NOTE: Presence condition "C" means that the attribute shall be included if the attribute "velocityDesc" is included.
The GeoLocationType is defined in table 8.3.2.2-2 as a list of following mutually exclusive alternatives. Data type Cardi Discriminator Discriminator mapping Description nality name Point 1 gadShape POINT Geolocation consisting of a single ellipsoid point, represented by its longitude and latitude, see 3GPP TS 29.572 [20], clause 6.1.6.2.6 PointUncertaintyCircle 1 gadShape POINT_UNCERTAINTY_CIRCLE Geolocation consisting of a point and an uncertainty value, see 3GPP TS 29.572 [20], clause 6.1.6.2.7 PointUncertaintyEllipse 1 gadShape POINT_UNCERTAINTY_ELLIPSE Geolocation consisting of a point and an uncertainty ellipse, see 3GPP TS 29.572 [20], clause 6.1.6.2.8 Polygon 1 gadShape POLYGON Geolocation consisting of a list of points, see 3GPP TS 29.572 [20], clause 6.1.6.2.9 PointAltitude 1 gadShape POINT_ALTITUDE Geolocation consisting of a point and an altitude value, see 3GPP TS 29.572 [20], clause 6.1.6.2.10 PointAltitudeUncertainty 1 gadShape POINT_ALTITUDE_UNCERTAINTY Geolocation consisting of a point, an altitude value, and an uncertainty value, see 3GPP TS 29.572 [20], clause 6.1.6.2.11 EllipsoidArc 1 gadShape ELLIPSOID_ARC Geolocation consisting of an ellipsoid arc, see 3GPP TS 29.572 [20], clause 6.1.6.2.12 The VelocityType is defined in table 8.3.2.2-3 as a list of following mutually exclusive alternatives. Data type Cardi Discriminator Discriminator mapping Description nality name HorizontalVelocity 1 velocityDesc H_VELOCITY Horizonal velocity, see 3GPP TS 29.572 [20], clause 6.1.6.2.18 HorizontalWithVerticalVelocity 1 velocityDesc HV_VELOCITY Horizonal velocity and vertical velocity, see 3GPP TS 29.572 [20], clause 6.1.6.2.19 HorizontalVelocityWithUncerta 1 velocityDesc H_VELOCITY_UNCERTAINTY Horizonal velocity with a inty speed uncertainty value, see 3GPP TS 29.572 [20], clause 6.1.6.2.20 HorizontalWithVerticalVelocity 1 velocityDesc HV_VELOCITY_UNCERTAINTY Horizonal velocity and AndUncertainty vertical velocity with speed uncertainty values, see 3GPP TS 29.572 [20], clause 6.1.6.2.21

### 8.3.4 Statements for EI job constraints

#### 8.3.4.1 Introduction
This clause defines the structured data type and attributes to be used for EI job constraints. Table 8.3.4.1-1 specifies the statements that can be used for EI job constraints. Data type Clause defined Description Applicability UEGeoandVelEIConstraints 8.3.4.2 EI job constraints for UE geo-location and velocity information

#### 8.3.4.2 UE geo-location and velocity information
The UEGeoandVelEIConstraints contains the attributes defined in table 8.3.4.2-1: Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability supportedGadShapes array(GadShapeType) M 1..N Indicates supported GAD shapes to describe UE geo- location, see clause 8.2.2.2 supportedVelocityDescs array(VelocityDescType) O 1..N Indicates supported types of UE velocity description, see clause 8.2.2.3

## 8.4 EI representations objects

### 8.4.1 EI type object
The EI type object can be empty or contain EI type specific information. An EiTypeObject is based on IETF RFC 8259 [6] and can contain:
- one JSON schema for EiJobDefinition;
- one JSON schema for EiJobStatusObject;
- one JSON schema for EiJobResultObject; or
- one JSON schema for EiJobConstraintsObject.
The type EiTypeObject is defined in table 8.4.1-1. Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability eiJobDefinitionSchema JsonSchema O 0..1 The eiJobStatusSchema JsonSchema O 0..1 schemas eiJobResultSchema JsonSchema O 0..1 are EI type eiJobConstraintsSchema JsonSchema O 0..1 specific
> NOTE 1: Clause 9.2 contains definitions and EI type specific schemas for O-RAN defined A1 EI types.
> NOTE 2: The eiJobDefinitionSchema attribute shall contain the compound EI job definition schema as described in
clause 9.1.2.2. The JSON schema for an EiJobDefinition is used by the A1-EI Consumer to formulate an EI job definition and by the A1-EI Producer to validate an EiJobObject during Create EI job and Update EI job procedures. The JSON schema for an EiJobConstraintsObject is used by the A1-EI Producer to formulate EI job constraints and by the A1- EI Consumer to validate an EiJobConstraintsObject that is considered when formulating an EI job definition. The JSON schema for an EiJobStatusObject is used by the A1-EI Producer to formulate EI job status and by the A1-EI Consumer to validate an EiJobStatusObject during Query EI job status and Notify EI job status procedures. The JSON schema for an EiJobResultObject is used by the A1-EI Producer to formulate EI job results and by the A1-EI Consumer to validate an EiJobResultObject during Deliver EI job result procedures. The EiTypeObject and the EiJobConstraintsObject can be retrieved using the Query EI type procedure.

### 8.4.2 EI job object

#### 8.4.2.1 General
An EiJobObject is based on IETF RFC 8259 [6] and contains:
- one EI type identifier;
- one target URI for EI Job results; and
- one EI type specific job definition containing one or more EI job definition statements.
and optionally
- one target URI for EI Job status notifications.
The type EiJobObject is defined in table 8.4.2-1. Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability eiTypeId string M 1 EI type identifier EI type specific jobResultUri string M 1 See clause 8.2.1 jobStatusNotificationUri string O 0..1 See clause 8.2.1 jobDefinition JobDefinition M 1 See clause 8.3.2 EI type specific
> NOTE: Presence condition "M" means that the data type shall be included in an EI job object for EI types based on
the present document. Additional attributes may be defined for a specific EI type. This definition is general and indicates how to formally construct an EiJobObject. The EI types in clause 9.2 define EI type identifiers and schemas for EI job definitions. The EI job definition is related to the EI job results, i.e., it can express which of the possible EI job result attributes that should be delivered based on the EI job.

#### 8.4.2.2 Allowed combinations
A job definition statement can be applied together with a ScopeIdentifier containing different combinations of identifiers attributes. Not all combinations are relevant and different combinations are relevant for different EI types (see clause 9).

### 8.4.3 EI job status object
An EiJobStatus object is based on IETF RFC 8259 [6] and always contains:
- one EI job status attribute.
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability jobStatus JobStatusType M 1 See 8.2.2 statement indicating status of an EI job
> NOTE: Presence condition "M" means that the data type shall be included in an EI job status object for EI types
based on the present document. Additional attributes may be defined for a specific EI type.

### 8.4.4 EI job result object
An EiJobResult object is based on IETF RFC 8259 [6] and it contains
- one or more EI job result statements.

### 8.4.5 EI job constraints object
An EiJobConstraintsObject is based on IETF RFC 8259 [6] and it contains
- one or more EI job constraints statements.
The content is related to the EI job definition, i.e.; it can express capabilities and limitations related to supported attributes and value ranges for EI job result attributes, and EI job production and delivery attributes.

## 8.5 Binary data
Binary data is not applicable in this version of the present document.

# 9 A1-EI data types (EI types)

## 9.1 Introduction

### 9.1.1 Identification and compatibility of EI types
An EI type is identified by a EiTypeId as defined in A1AP [3], clause 6.3.3.1.3. The EiTypeId is a string that consists of two parts: a typename and a version. When updating an EI type, the version in the EiTypeId is updated according to SemVer [19] to reflect its compatibility with other EI types that has the same typename. Two EI types are considered as different if the EiTypeId is different, i.e. even if the typename is the same and the version only differs in the patch version digit. Two EI types are compatible in case the typename is the same and the major version digit in the version is the same. In general, two EI types X and Y are compatible when all objects that can be created based on EI type X can be validated by the schemas for EI type Y and all objects that can be created based on EI type Y can be validated by the schemas for EI type X.

### 9.1.2 Common definitions

#### 9.1.2.1 EI job status
This is a generic EI job status schema, it may be adjusted and used together with an EI job schema in an EiTypeObject and will then be identified by the same EI type identifier as the EI job schema. { "$schema": "https://json-schema.org/draft/2020-12/schema", "description": "O-RAN standard EI status", "type": "object", "properties": { "jobStatus": { "type": "string", "enum": [ "ENABLED", "DISABLED" ] } }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["jobStatus"] } If an EI type specific status schema contains additional attributes, they are included based on the structure of the generic schema.

#### 9.1.2.2 Scope identifiers and common data types
The EI job definition schemas defined in clause 9.2 can be base schemas that embed a subschema with common data types definitions in same way as described for policy types in clause 7.1. An EI type definition can link to the common data types schema defined in clause 7.1.2.1 and the compatibility relations are the same as for A1 policy types as described in Annex C. The EI types defined in the present document link to the version of the common data types schema defined in the present document. It is the compound EI job definition schemas that are identified by the EI type identifier and included in the EiTypeObject specified in clause 8.4.1.

#### 9.1.2.3 Schema identification
The EI type identifier is part of the $id keyword included in the EI job definition schema. The $id keyword for the EI job definition schemas are constructed from the URI base and the EI type identifier in the same was as for policy types as described in clause 7.1.3.2. The base URI for EI types is the same as for policy types.

## 9.2 EI type definitions

### 9.2.1 UE location and velocity information

#### 9.2.1.1 EI type identifier
EiTypeId: ORAN_UEGeoandVel_5.0.0

#### 9.2.1.2 Rationale

##### 9.2.1.2.1 Use case
See Non-RT RIC and A1/R1 interface: Use Cases and Requirements [1], clauses 4.4, 4.5, and 4.7.

##### 9.2.1.2.2 Statements, restrictions and extensions

# A UEGeoandVelEIDescription statement can be applied together with ScopeIdentifier containing different combinations of identifiers. Not all combinations are relevant. Table 9.2.1.2.2-1 indicates the combinations that are allowed.
ScopeIdentifier ueId groupId sliceId qosId cellId EI job definition UEGeoandVelEIDescription 1 0 0 0 0
> NOTE 1: on each row is listed a combination of identifiers that is allowed for the indicated statement.
Notation is the same as for cardinality: "0" means the identifier shall not occur and "1" means the identifier shall occur.
> NOTE 2: A single UE identifier is allowed in the scope of the present document. Whether the scope for
UEGeoandVelEIDescription statement can be extended to a group of UEs, UEs in a slice, or UEs in a cell is For Further Study.

#### 9.2.1.3 JSON schemas

##### 9.2.1.3.1 EI job definition schema
{ "$schema": "https://json-schema.org/draft/2020-12/schema", "$id": "https://schemas.o-ran.org/jsonschemas/a1td/oran_uegeoandvel_5.0.0", "description": "O-RAN standard UE geo-location and velocity EI job definition", "type": "object", "properties": { "scope": { "type": "object", "properties": { "ueId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/UeId"} }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["ueId"] }, "ueGeoandVelEIDescription": { "type": "object", "properties": { "gadShape": {"$ref": "#/$defs/GadShapeType"}, "granularityPeriod": { "type": "number", "minimum": 1, "maximum": 60000 }, "reportingPeriod": { "type": "number", "minimum": 1, "maximum": 60000 }, "reportingAmount": { "type": "number", "minimum": 1, "maximum": 3600000 }, "velocityDesc": {"$ref": "#/$defs/VelocityDescType"} }, "required": ["gadShape", "granularityPeriod", "reportingPeriod", "reportingAmount"], "additionalProperties": false } }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["scope", "ueGeoandVelEIDescription"], "$defs": { "GadShapeType": { "type": "string", "enum": [ "POINT", "POINT_UNCERTAINTY_CIRCLE", "POINT_UNCERTAINTY_ELLIPSE", "POLYGON", "POINT_ALTITUDE", "POINT_ALTITUDE_UNCERTAINTY", "ELLIPSOID_ARC" ] }, "VelocityDescType": { "type": "string", "enum": [ "H_VELOCITY", "HV_VELOCITY", "H_VELOCITY_UNCERTAINTY", "HV_VELOCITY_UNCERTAINTY" ] }, "https://schemas.o-ran.org/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0": } }

##### 9.2.1.3.2 EI job constraints schema
{ "$schema": "https://json-schema.org/draft/2020-12/schema", "description": "O-RAN standard UE geo-location and velocity EI job constraints", "type": "object", "properties": { "ueGeoandVelEIConstraints": { "type": "object", "properties": { "supportedGadShapes": { "type": "array", "items": { "$ref": "#/$defs/GadShapeType" }, "minItems": 1 }, "supportedVelocityDescs": { "type": "array", "items": { "$ref": "#/$defs/VelocityDescType" }, "minItems": 1 } }, "required": ["supportedGadShapes"], "additionalProperties": false } }, "additionalProperties": false, "required": ["ueGeoandVelEIConstraints"], "$defs": { "GadShapeType": { "type": "string", "enum": [ "POINT", "POINT_UNCERTAINTY_CIRCLE", "POINT_UNCERTAINTY_ELLIPSE", "POLYGON", "POINT_ALTITUDE", "POINT_ALTITUDE_UNCERTAINTY", "ELLIPSOID_ARC" ] }, "VelocityDescType": { "type": "string", "enum": [ "H_VELOCITY", "HV_VELOCITY", "H_VELOCITY_UNCERTAINTY", "HV_VELOCITY_UNCERTAINTY" ] } } }

##### 9.2.1.3.3 EI job status schema
The generic EI job status schema in clause 9.1.2.1 is used.

##### 9.2.1.3.4 EI job result schema
{ "$schema": "https://json-schema.org/draft/2020-12/schema", "description": "O-RAN standard UE geo-location and velocity EI job results", "type": "array", "items": { "$ref": "#/$defs/UEGeoandVelEIResult" }, "minItems": 1, "$defs": { "UEGeoandVelEIResult": { "type": "object", "properties": { "timeStamp": {"$ref": "#/$defs/DateTime"}, "ueId": {"$ref": "/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0#/$defs/UeId"}, "gadShape": {"$ref": "#/$defs/GadShapeType"}, "velocityDesc": {"$ref": "#/$defs/VelocityDescType"} }, "allof": [ { "if": { "properties": { "gadShape": { "const": "POINT" } } }, "then": { "properties": { "geoLocation": { "$ref": "#/$defs/Point" } } } }, { "if": { "properties": { "gadShape": { "const": "POINT_UNCERTAINTY_CIRCLE" } } }, "then": { "properties": { "geoLocation": { "$ref": "#/$defs/PointUncertaintyCircle" } } } }, { "if": { "properties": { "gadShape": { "const": "POINT_UNCERTAINTY_ELLIPSE" } } }, "then": { "properties": { "geoLocation": { "$ref": "#/$defs/PointUncertaintyEllipse" } } } }, { "if": { "properties": { "gadShape": { "const": "POLYGON" } } }, "then": { "properties": { "geoLocation": { "$ref": "#/$defs/Polygon" } } } }, { "if": { "properties": { "gadShape": { "const": "POINT_ALTITUDE" } } }, "then": { "properties": { "geoLocation": { "$ref": "#/$defs/PointAltitude" } } } }, { "if": { "properties": { "gadShape": { "const": "POINT_ALTITUDE_UNCERTAINTY" } } }, "then": { "properties": { "geoLocation": { "$ref": "#/$defs/PointAltitudeUncertainty" } } } }, { "if": { "properties": { "gadShape": { "const": "ELLIPSOID_ARC" } } }, "then": { "properties": { "geoLocation": { "$ref": "#/$defs/EllipsoidArc" } } } }, { "if": { "properties": { "velocityDesc": { "const": "H_VELOCITY" } }, "required": ["velocityDesc"] }, "then": { "properties": { "velocity": { "$ref": "#/$defs/HorizontalVelocity" } } } }, { "if": { "properties": { "velocityDesc": { "const": "HV_VELOCITY" } }, "required": ["velocityDesc"] }, "then": { "properties": { "velocity": { "$ref": "#/$defs/HorizontalWithVerticalVelocity" } } } }, { "if": { "properties": { "velocityDesc": { "const": "H_VELOCITY_UNCERTAINTY" } }, "required": ["velocityDesc"] }, "then": { "properties": { "velocity": { "$ref": "#/$defs/HorizontalVelocityWithUncertainty" } } } }, { "if": { "properties": { "velocityDesc": { "const": "HV_VELOCITY_UNCERTAINTY" } }, "required": ["velocityDesc"] }, "then": { "properties": { "velocity": { "$ref": "#/$defs/HorizontalWithVerticalVelocityAndUncertainty" } } } } ], "required": ["timeStamp", "ueId", "gadShape", "geoLocation"] }, "DateTime": { "type": "string", "format": "date-time" }, "GadShapeType": { "type": "string", "enum": [ "POINT", "POINT_UNCERTAINTY_CIRCLE", "POINT_UNCERTAINTY_ELLIPSE", "POLYGON", "POINT_ALTITUDE", "POINT_ALTITUDE_UNCERTAINTY", "ELLIPSOID_ARC" ] }, "VelocityDescType": { "type": "string", "enum": [ "H_VELOCITY", "HV_VELOCITY", "H_VELOCITY_UNCERTAINTY", "HV_VELOCITY_UNCERTAINTY" ] }, "Point": { "type": "object", "properties": { "lon": { "type": "number", "minimum": -180, "maximum": 180 }, "lat": { "type": "number", "minimum": -90, "maximum": 90 } }, "required": ["lon", "lat"] }, "PointUncertaintyCircle": { "type": "object", "properties": { "point": { "$ref": "#/$defs/Point" }, "uncertainty": { "$ref": "#/$defs/Uncertainty" } }, "required": ["point", "uncertainty"] }, "PointUncertaintyEllipse": { "type": "object", "properties": { "point": { "$ref": "#/$defs/Point" }, "uncertaintyEllipse": { "$ref": "#/$defs/UncertaintyEllipse" }, "confidence": { "$ref": "#/$defs/Confidence" } }, "required": ["point", "uncertainty", "confidence"] }, "Polygon": { "type": "array", "items": { "$ref": "#/$defs/Point" }, "minItems": 3, "maxItems": 15 }, "PointAltitude": { "type": "object", "properties": { "point": { "$ref": "#/$defs/Point" }, "altitude": { "$ref": "#/$defs/Altitude" } }, "required": ["point", "altitude"] }, "PointAltitudeUncertainty": { "type": "object", "properties": { "point": { "$ref": "#/$defs/Point" }, "altitude": { "$ref": "#/$defs/Altitude" }, "uncertaintyEllipse": { "$ref": "#/$defs/UncertaintyEllipse" }, "uncertaintyAltitude": { "$ref": "#/$defs/Uncertainty" }, "confidence": { "$ref": "#/$defs/Confidence" } }, "required": ["point", "altitude", "uncertaintyEllipse", "uncertaintyAltitude", "confidence"] }, "EllipsoidArc": { "type": "object", "properties": { "point": { "$ref": "#/$defs/Point" }, "innerRadius": { "$ref": "#/$defs/InnerRadius" }, "uncertaintyRadius": { "$ref": "#/$defs/Uncertainty" }, "offsetAngle": { "$ref": "#/$defs/Angle" }, "includeAngle": { "$ref": "#/$defs/Angle" }, "confidence": { "$ref": "#/$defs/Confidence" } }, "required": [ "point", "innerRadius", "uncertaintyRadius", "offsetAngle", "includeAnlge", "confidence" ] }, "HorizontalVelocity": { "type": "object", "properties": { "hSpeed": { "$ref": "#/$defs/HorizontalSpeed" }, "bearing": { "$ref": "#/$defs/Angle" } }, "required": ["hSpeed", "bearing"] }, "HorizontalWithVerticalVelocity": { "type": "object", "properties": { "hSpeed": { "$ref": "#/$defs/HorizontalSpeed" }, "bearing": { "$ref": "#/$defs/Angle" }, "vSpeed": { "$ref": "#/$defs/VerticalSpeed" }, "vDirection": { "$ref": "#/$defs/VerticalDirection" } }, "required": ["hSpeed", "bearing", "vSpeed", "vDirection"] }, "HorizontalVelocityWithUncertainty": { "type": "object", "properties": { "hSpeed": { "$ref": "#/$defs/HorizontalSpeed" }, "bearing": { "$ref": "#/$defs/Angle" }, "hUncertainty": { "$ref": "#/$defs/SpeedUncertainty" } }, "required": ["hSpeed", "bearing", "hUncertainty"] }, "HorizontalWithVerticalVelocityAndUncertainty": { "type": "object", "properties": { "hSpeed": { "$ref": "#/$defs/HorizontalSpeed" }, "bearing": { "$ref": "#/$defs/Angle" }, "vSpeed": { "$ref": "#/$defs/VerticalSpeed" }, "vDirction": { "$ref": "#/$defs/VerticalDirction" }, "hUncertainty": { "$ref": "#/$defs/SpeedUncertainty" }, "vUncertainty": { "$ref": "#/$defs/SpeedUncertainty" } }, "required": ["hSpeed", "bearing", "vSpeed", "vDirection", "hUncertainty", "vUncertainty"] }, "Uncertainty": { "type": "number", "minimum": 0 }, "UncertaintyEllipse": { "type": "object", "properties": { "semiMajor": { "$ref": "#/$defs/Uncertainty" }, "semiMinor": { "$ref": "#/$defs/Uncertainty" }, "orientationMajor": { "$ref": "#/$defs/Orientation" } }, "required": ["semiMajor", "semiMinor", "orientationMajor"] }, "Orientation": { "type": "integer", "minimum": 0, "maximum": 100 }, "Confidence": { "type": "number", "minimum": 0, "maximum": 100 }, "Altitude": { "type": "number", "minimum": -32767, "maximum": 32767 }, "InnerRadius": { "type": "integer", "minimum": 0, "maximum": 327675 }, "Angle": { "type": "integer", "minimum": 0, "maximum": 360 }, "HorizontalSpeed": { "type": "number", "minimum": 0, "maximum": 2047 }, "VerticalSpeed": { "type": "number", "minimum": 0, "maximum": 255 }, "VerticalDirection": { "type": "string", "enum": [ "UPWARD", "DOWNWARD" ] }, "SpeedUncertainty": { "type": "number", "minimum": 0, "maximum": 255 }, "https://schemas.o-ran.org/jsonschemas/a1td/common_3.0.0": } }


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG2.TS.A1TP-R004-v03.05.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG2.TS.A1TP-R004-v03.05 Technical Specification"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in A1GAP [1], clause 3.1, apply.

## 3.2 Symbols
Void.

## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in A1GAP [1], clause 3.3, and the following apply: IETF Internet Engineering Task Force JWT JSON Web Tokens RFC Request For Comments

# 4 A1 interface protocol stack

## 4.1 General
The architecture for the A1 interface is specified in A1GAP [1], clause 4.1. The protocol stack for the A1 interface supports application protocol and data models as specified in A1AP [2] and A1TD [3].

## 4.2 Reference model
The A1 interface is defined between the Non-RT RIC and the Near-RT RIC functions. The A1 architecture and principles are described in A1GAP [1], clause 4. Figure 4.2-1 illustrates the reference model for the A1 interface. N N o e n - R a r - R

# T R IC

# A 1 i

# T R IC
n t e r f a c e

## 4.3 Functions and protocol stack
The following layers of the protocol stack for the A1 interface are described in the following clauses:
- TCP as specified in IETF RFC 793 [4] provides the communication service at the transport layer;
- TLS as specified in IETF RFC 8446 [6] is used to provide secure HTTP connections;
- HTTP as specified in IETF RFC 9110 [18], IETF RFC 9112 [19] and IETF RFC 9113 [20] is used as
application-level protocol;
- The data interchange layer constitutes the transport of documents in the JSON format as specified in IETF RFC
8259 [11]. D A S T N D P a t a I n t e r p p lic a t io e c u r it y r a n s p o r t e t w o r k a t a lin k h y s ic a l c n h a n g e D P a h

# J S O N

# H T T P

# T L S

# T C P

# I P
t a l in k l a y s ic a l la y y e e r r

# 5 Network layer
A1 may be transported over IPv6 as specified in IETF RFC 8200 [12] and/or IPv4 as specified in IETF RFC 791 [13].

# 6 Transport layer
TCP as specified in IETF RFC 793 [4] shall be used as transport protocol. An HTTP connection is mapped to a TCP connection. Both Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC can act as HTTP client and HTTP server. As a result, Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC can establish a TCP connection for each direction.

# 7 Security
TLS, mTLS, and OAuth2.0 shall be supported as specified in SRCS [16], clause 5.2.1. mTLS and OAuth 2.0 with JWT shall be supported as specified in SPS [17], clause 4.7.

# 8 Application
As application layer, HTTP/1.1 as specified in IETF RFC 9112 [19] shall be supported, and HTTP/2 as specified in IETF RFC 9113 [20] should be supported. HTTP over TLS as specified in IETF RFC 9110 [18] and IETF RFC 9112 [19] shall be supported. If HTTP/2 is supported, HTTP/2 over TLS as specified in IETF RFC 9113 [20] shall be supported. HTTP details such as standard headers, custom headers, error codes, methods, URIs etc are specified in A1AP [2]. The default TCP port numbers should be used for HTTP operation.

# 9 Data interchange
As a data interchange format, JSON as specified in IETF RFC 8259 [11] shall be supported. The objects transported in HTTP messages, and the data types in JSON format, are specified in A1TD [3].


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG2.TS.A1TS-R004-v04.04.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG2.TS.A1TS-R004-v04.04 Technical Specification A1 interface: Test Specification"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in A1GAP [i.1], clause 3.1, A1AP [4], clause 3.1, and A1TD [i.2], clause 3.1 apply.

## 3.2 Symbols
Void.

## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in A1GAP [i.1], clause 3.3, A1AP [4], clause 3.3, A1TD DUT Device Under Test

# 4 Test methodology

## 4.1 General
This clause describes the methodology for conformance and interoperability testing of Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC over A1 interface. For conformance tests, simulators are used for testing A1 procedures. These simulators will have capability of generating HTTP requests and responses for GET, PUT, POST and DELETE operations. There will be flexibility in configuring URI, headers and body for these HTTP requests and responses to enable creation of various test cases. For interoperability tests, devices under tests are Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC, these devices are brought to operation by connecting to appropriate real or simulated devices.

## 4.2 Conformance testing Non-RT RIC

### 4.2.1 General
Non-RT RIC is the device under test, clause 5 of the present document specifies conformance tests for A1-P Consumer and A1-EI Producer functionality as specified in document A1AP [4], clause 5.

### 4.2.2 Test configuration

#### 4.2.2.0 Overview
The test configuration for A1 conformance testing of Non-RT RIC is illustrated in figure 4.2.2.0-1. N T e o s n -R t S T im R u IC la ( D A t o r U

# T )
- P C

# A 1 -P
o P r n o s A d u u c m e r e r A 1 A - E -E

# I P

# I C
r o o n d A s u u m c e e r r

#### 4.2.2.1 Device under test (Non-RT RIC)
For enabling conformance testing, the Non-RT RIC has implemented A1-P Consumer and/or A1-EI Producer functionality and the service operations specified in A1AP [4], clause 5 that are required to perform testing of the applicable test cases. It also supports one agreed policy type and/or one agreed EI type.

#### 4.2.2.2 Test simulator
The test simulator has A1-P Producer and A1-EI Consumer that both have HTTP Client and HTTP Server capabilities and have flexibility to generate, receive and validate HTTP messages for all the A1 procedures. The test simulator logs all message content during the testing. The A1-P Producer in the test simulator has all the capabilities needed to operate the A1-P test cases, including:
- Enable and disable policy types;
- Changing parameters in A1-P procedure response messages;
- Responding with success and failure messages;
- Ability to deliver policy status notifications by sending HTTP POST messages with JSON body created based on
configured schemas; and
- Validation of message contents based on configured schemas (headers, return codes, JSON body etc.).
The A1-EI Consumer in the test simulator has all the capabilities needed to operate the A1-EI test cases, including:
- Send query messages for EI types;
- Create and delete EI jobs for available EI types; and
- Request and receive EI job status notifications and EI job results.

## 4.3 Conformance testing Near-RT RIC

### 4.3.1 General
Near-RT RIC is the device under test, clause 6 of the present document specifies conformance tests for A1-P Producer and A1- EI Consumer functionality as specified in document A1AP [4], clause 5.

### 4.3.2 Test configuration

#### 4.3.2.0 Overview
The test configuration for A1 conformance testing of Near-RT RIC is illustrated in figure 4.3.2.0-1. Test Simulator A1-P Consumer A1-EI Producer A1 A1 A1-P Producer A1-EI Consumer Near-RT RIC (DUT)

#### 4.3.2.1 Device under test (Near-RT RIC)
For enabling conformance testing, the Near-RT RIC has implemented A1-P Producer and/or A1-EI Consumer functionality and the service operations specified in A1AP [4], clause 5 that are required to perform testing of the applicable test cases. It also supports one agreed policy type and/or one agreed EI type.

#### 4.3.2.2 Test simulator
The test simulator has A1-P Consumer and A1-EI Producer that both have HTTP Client and HTTP Server capabilities and have flexibility to generate, receive and validate HTTP messages for all the A1 procedures. The test simulator logs all message content during the testing. The A1-P Consumer in the test simulator has all the capabilities needed to operate the A1-P test cases, including:
- Send query messages for policy types;
- Create and delete policies for available policy types; and
- Request and receive policy status notifications.
The A1-EI Producer in the test simulator has all the capabilities needed to operate the A1-EI test cases, including:
- Enable and disable EI job types.
- Changing parameters in A1-EI procedure response messages;
- Responding with success and failure messages;
- Ability to deliver EI job status notifications and EI job results by sending HTTP POST messages with JSON body
created based on configured schemas; and
- Validation of message contents based on configured schemas (headers, return codes, JSON body etc.).

## 4.4 Interoperability testing between Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC

### 4.4.1 General
Both Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC are the devices under test or constitutes a system under test, they may be from different vendors or from the same vendor. Clause 7 of the present document specifies interoperability test cases for A1-P and A1-EI functionality as specified in document A1AP [4], clause 5. Test methodology is conceived to be non-intrusive to ensure that production ready devices and software can be used in the test setup. A protocol analyser connected to A1 interface use a tap to collects and analyses packets passively for test case validation. In addition to the devices under test, some additional functionalities may be needed to bring the devices under test to operational state and to facilitate test case execution. These are optional depending on DUT implementation and can be provided by real devices or by simulators.

### 4.4.2 Test configuration

#### 4.4.2.0 Overview
The test configuration for A1 interoperability testing between Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC is illustrated in Figure 4.4.2.0-1. SMO framework O1 functionality Non-RT RIC (simulator or real) (DUT) A1 O1 O1 Protocol Analyzer tap for capturing Near-RT RIC (DUT) E2 UEs E2 node functionality 4G/5G Core functionality (simulator (simulator or real) (simulator or real) or real) UE + RAN + Core

#### 4.4.2.1 System under test (Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC)
Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC will have a minimal set of matching functionalities to facilitate testing of A1-P and/or A1-EI procedures. As an entry criterion for interoperability testing, Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC need to have at least one matching policy type and/or EI type.

#### 4.4.2.2 Test tools and simulators (SMO framework, E2 nodes, UEs, etc.)

##### 4.4.2.2.1 SMO O1 functionality (Simulator or real)
SMO O1 functionality may be needed if Non-RT RIC relies on O1 functionality for provisioning. This interface is also needed if the Non-RT RIC collects performance metrics via O1 interface.

##### 4.4.2.2.2 UEs and RAN (simulator or real)
For triggering A1-P and A1-E1 procedures across A1 interface, Near-RT RIC may need one or more E2 Node(s). These can be real or simulated nodes with supported E2 Service Model functionality as needed by Near-RT RIC involved in the tests. A simulated or real UE call activity may be needed to invoke the appropriate Near-RT RIC functionality and/or O1 metrics.

##### 4.4.2.2.3 4G/5G Core Network.
Depending on the Non-RT RIC, Near-RT RIC and/or E2 Nodes used, a simulated or real 4G/5G Core Network may be needed for UE activity.

##### 4.4.2.2.4 Tap interface and protocol analysanalyser.
A tap interface and protocol analysanalyser can be used on A1 interface to passively capture and analyse packets for test case validation.

# 5 Test cases for Non-RT RIC

## 5.1 General

### 5.1.1 Device under test requirements
The Non-RT RIC that acts as Device Under Test (DUT) in the test scenarios of this clause can be a function that is under development, or it can be a finalised commercial product. The requirements on the DUT for these tests are that it can handle the procedures defined for a Non-RT RIC and the purpose of the test scenarios is to validate that it conforms to the A1 service definitions in A1AP [4], clause 5. In addition to the basic conformance requirements, the following is required for a Non-RT RIC when it acts as DUT:
- It shall be possible for the DUT to initiate the A1-P procedures in a controlled manner for each A1-P related test
case;
- For A1-P related test cases, it shall be possible for the DUT to support A1 policy types to use in the test cases after
agreement with the test simulator. It shall be possible to formulate A1 policies based on agreed policy types, and it shall be possible to validate PolicyStatusObjects based on the schemas of the agreed policy types; and
- For A1-EI related test cases, it shall be possible for the DUT to support EI types to use in the test cases after
agreement with the test simulator. It shall be possible to validate EiJobObjects based on the schemas of the agreed EI types.
> NOTE: The present document does not require usage of any specific policy type or EI type since specific behaviour is
not validated, only the application protocol aspects and procedures are validated for conformance testing of the A1 services.

### 5.1.2 Test simulator capabilities
The test simulator has the same basic capabilities as required for a Near-RT RIC. In addition, it has the following capabilities:
- Recording of received HTTP requests and responses and analysing them regarding conformance to the A1 service
definitions;
- Controlled initiation of procedures with configurable URIs and payload formulated and modified based on the
schemas of the agreed policy types and EI types; and
- Validating messages and issuing of verdicts related to the procedures in the test cases and thereby enabling
determination of the DUT’s conformance to the A1 service definitions in A1AP [4], clause 5.

## 5.2 Conformance test cases for A1-P Consumer

### 5.2.1 Query policy type test scenarios

#### 5.2.1.1 Query all policy type identifiers (positive case)

##### 5.2.1.1.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the query policy types functionality of A1-P Consumer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.2.3.2. The expected outcome is successful validation of the Query all policy type identifiers request. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-P service and the Query all policy type identifiers procedure.

##### 5.2.1.1.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate A1-P Query all policy type identifiers procedure. 2) A set of policy types (at least two) are supported in the test simulator.

##### 5.2.1.1.3 Test methodology
5.2.1.1.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The test simulator has A1-P Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 5.2.1.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Initiate appropriate action in the DUT to initiate Query all policy type identifiers request. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request are recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.2.3. b) The HTTP request is a GET operation. c) The HTTP request message body is empty. Step 4. The test simulator generates the appropriate HTTP response as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.2.3.2.1. 5.2.1.1.3.3 Expected result The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

#### 5.2.1.2 Query single policy type (positive case)

##### 5.2.1.2.1 Test description and applicability
This purpose of this test case is to test the query policy type functionality of A1-P Consumer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.2.3.3. The expected outcome is successful validation of the Query single policy type request. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-P service and the Query single policy type procedure.

##### 5.2.1.2.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has the functionality to initiate A1-P Query single policy type procedure 2) A known set of policy types are supported in the test simulator. 3) Policy type identifiers used for this test are known in advance and used in DUT to formulate the Query single policy type request, and in test Simulator for selecting the appropriate schemas for the policy type object.

##### 5.2.1.2.3 Test methodology
5.2.1.2.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The test Simulator has A1-P Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 5.2.1.2.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Initiate appropriate action in the DUT to initiate Query single policy type request with a known policyTypeId. Step 2. At the test Simulator the contents of the received HTTP request are recorded. Step 3. The test Simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.2.3. b) The HTTP request is a GET operation. c) The policyTypeId in the URI match the policy type being queried. d) The message body is empty. Step 4. The test Simulator generates the appropriate HTTP response as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.2.3.3.1. 5.2.1.2.3.3 Expected result The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

### 5.2.2 Create policy test scenarios

#### 5.2.2.1 Create single policy (positive case)

##### 5.2.2.1.1 Test description and applicability
This purpose of this test case is to test the create policy functionality of A1-P Consumer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.2.4.3. The expected outcome is successful validation of the Create single policy request. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-P service.

##### 5.2.2.1.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has the functionality to initiate A1-P Create single policy procedure. 2) The DUT and the test simulator have agreed on a policy type to use for this test. 3) The policyTypeId and the JSON schemas of the policy type used for this test are available and used in DUT to formulate the create policy request, and in test simulator to validate the request.

##### 5.2.2.1.3 Test methodology
5.2.2.1.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The test simulator has A1-P Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 2) No policy exists in the test simulator for the agreed policy type with the same policyId that will be used by the DUT. Note: The DUT is required to generate a unique policyId during the Create single policy procedure (see A1AP [4] clauses 5.2.2.2 and 5.2.3.2.2). 5.2.2.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Initiate appropriate action in the DUT to initiate Create single policy request for the agreed policy type. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request are recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.2.3. b) The HTTP request is a PUT operation. c) The policyTypeId is supported. d) A policy with the policyId does not exist. e) The HTTP request message body contains the PolicyObject of the policy to be created and the PolicyObject conforms to the schema. Step 4. The test simulator generates the appropriate HTTP response as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.2.2.2. 5.2.2.1.3.3 Expected result The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.
> NOTE: Presence or validation of optional query parameter for notificationDestination is not used to determine validation
on this test.

### 5.2.3 Query policy test scenarios

#### 5.2.3.1 Query all policy identifiers (positive case)

##### 5.2.3.1.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the query policies functionality of A1-P Consumer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.2.4.2. The expected outcome is successful validation of the Query all policy identifiers request. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-P service and the Query all policy identifiers procedure.

##### 5.2.3.1.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate A1-P Query all policy identifiers procedure. 2) The DUT and the test simulator have agreed on a policy type to use for this test. 3) A set of policies (at least two) for the agreed policy type exist in the test simulator.

##### 5.2.3.1.3 Test methodology
5.2.3.1.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The test simulator has A1-P Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 5.2.3.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Initiate appropriate action in the DUT to initiate Query all policy identifiers request. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request are recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.2.3. b) The HTTP request is a GET operation. c) The message body is empty. Step 4. The test simulator generates the appropriate HTTP response as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.2.4.2.1. 5.2.3.1.3.3 Expected result The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

#### 5.2.3.2 Query single policy (positive case)

##### 5.2.3.2.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the query policy functionality of A1-P Consumer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.2.4.5. The expected outcome is successful validation of the Query single policy request. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-P service and the Query single policy procedure.

##### 5.2.3.2.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate A1-P Query single policy procedure. 2) A policy exists in test simulator and the policyTypeId and the policyId is known to DUT.

##### 5.2.3.2.3 Test methodology
5.2.3.2.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The test simulator has A1-P Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 5.2.3.2.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Initiate appropriate action in the DUT to initiate Query single policy request for the existing policy identified by policyTypeId and policyId. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request are recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.2.3. b) The HTTP request is a GET operation. c) The policyTypeId and policyId in the URI match the policy being queried. d) The message body is empty. Step 4. The test simulator generates the appropriate HTTP response as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.2.4.5.1. 5.2.3.2.3.3 Expected result The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

#### 5.2.3.3 Query policy status (positive case)

##### 5.2.3.3.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the query policy status functionality of A1-P Consumer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.2.4.7. The expected outcome is successful validation of the Query policy status request. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-P service and the Query policy status procedure.

##### 5.2.3.3.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate A1-P Query policy status procedure. 2) A policy exists in test simulator and the policyTypeId and the policyId is known to DUT.

##### 5.2.3.3.3 Test methodology
5.2.3.3.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The test simulator has A1-P Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 5.2.3.3.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Initiate appropriate action in the DUT to initiate Query policy status request for the existing policy identified by policyTypeId and policyId. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request are recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.2.3. b) The HTTP request is a GET operation. c) The policyTypeId and policyId in the URI match the policy being queried. d) The message body is empty. Step 4. The test simulator generates the appropriate HTTP response as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.2.4.7.1. 5.2.3.3.3.3 Expected result The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

### 5.2.4 Update policy test scenarios

#### 5.2.4.1 Update single policy (positive case)

##### 5.2.4.1.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the update policy functionality of A1-P Consumer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.2.4.4. The expected outcome is successful validation of Update single policy request. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-P service and the Update single policy procedure.

##### 5.2.4.1.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate A1-P Update single policy procedure. 2) A policy exists in test simulator and the policyTypeId and the policyId is known to DUT. 3) The JSON schemas of the policy type used for this test are available and used in DUT to formulate the Update single policy request, and in test simulator to validate the request.

##### 5.2.4.1.3 Test methodology
5.2.4.1.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The test simulator has A1-P Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP request from the DUT. 5.2.4.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Initiate appropriate action in the DUT to initiate Update single policy request for the existing policy identified by policyTypeId and policyId. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request are recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.2.3. b) The HTTP request is a PUT operation. c) The policyTypeId and policyId in the URI match the policy being updated. d) The HTTP request message body contains the PolicyObject of the policy to be updated and the PolicyObject conforms to the schema of the policy type. Step 4. The test simulator generates the appropriate HTTP response as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.2.4.4.1. 5.2.4.1.3.3 Expected result The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.
> NOTE: Presence or validation of optional query parameter for notificationDestination is not used to determine validation
on this test.

### 5.2.5 Delete policy test scenarios

#### 5.2.5.1 Delete single policy (positive case)

##### 5.2.5.1.1 Test description and applicability
This purpose of this test case is to test the delete policy functionality of A1-P Consumer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.2.4.6. The expected outcome is successful validation of the Delete single policy request. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-P service.

##### 5.2.5.1.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has the functionality to initiate A1-P Delete policy procedure. 2) A policy exists in test simulator and the policyTypeId and the policyId is known to DUT.

##### 5.2.5.1.3 Test methodology
5.2.5.1.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The test simulator has A1-P Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 5.2.5.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Initiate appropriate action in the DUT to initiate Delete policy request for the existing policy identified by policyTypeId and policyId. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request are recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.2.3. b) The HTTP request is a DELETE operation. c) The policyTypeId and policyId in the URI match the policy being deleted d) The message body is empty. Step 4. The test simulator generates the appropriate HTTP response as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.2.4.6.1. 5.2.5.1.3.3 Expected result The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

### 5.2.6 Notify policy status test scenarios

#### 5.2.6.1 Notify policy status (positive case)

##### 5.2.6.1.1 Test description and applicability
This purpose of this test case is to test the policy status notification functionality of A1-P Consumer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.2.4.8. The expected outcome is successful policy status request and reception. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-P service and supports the Notify policy status procedure.

##### 5.2.6.1.2 Test entrance criteria
The test entrance criteria for Create single policy specified in clause 5.2.2.1.2 applies. And in addition: 1) The DUT has the functionality to request and receive policy status notifications.

##### 5.2.6.1.3 Test methodology
5.2.6.1.3.1 Initial conditions The initial conditions for Create single policy specified in clause 5.2.2.1.3.1 applies. And in addition: 1) The test simulator supports generation of a PolicyStatusObject based on the policy status schema of the agreed policy type used for this test. 2) The DUT has HTTP server ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the test simulator.
> NOTE: The DUT is expected to provide callback URI (notificationDestination) during the Create single policy
procedure (see A1AP [4] clause 5.2.4.3) for which it can relate received policy status notifications to the policyId that was generated when creating the policy for which policy status notifications is requested. 5.2.6.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Initiate appropriate action in the DUT to initiate Create single policy request for the agreed policy type including the notificationDestination query parameter. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request are recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a)-e) as defined for Create single policy in clause 5.2.2.1.3.2. f) The notificationDestination query parameter is included. Step 4. The test simulator generates the appropriate HTTP response as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.2.4.8.1. Step 5. The test simulator initiates the Notify policy status procedure and sends a HTTP POST request to the provided callback URI (notificationDestination) in the DUT with message body containing the PolicyStatusObject conforming to the schema of the used policy type. Step 6. At the test simulator the received HTTP response is recorded.
> NOTE: For the time between Step 4 and Step 5, the test simulator need not simulate any change in policy status but can
send status notifications directly with any content that conforms to the status schema of the used policy type. 5.2.6.1.3.3 Expected result The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met: 1) Step 3 validation has passed 2) Check the HTTP response recorded in step 6 of procedure and that the return code is "204 No content".

#### 5.2.6.2 Notify policy status – schema validation failure (negative case)

##### 5.2.6.2.1 Test description and applicability
This purpose of this test case is to test the policy status notification functionality of A1-P Consumer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.2.4.3. The expected outcome is failure due to schema validation failure. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-P service and supports the Notify policy status procedure.

##### 5.2.6.2.2 Test entrance criteria
The test entrance criteria in clause 5.2.6.1.2 applies.

##### 5.2.6.2.3 Test methodology
5.2.6.2.3.1 Initial conditions The initial conditions in clause 5.2.6.1.3.1 applies. 5.2.6.2.3.2 Procedure Steps 1-6 of clause 5.2.6.1.3.2 applies with the following modification: In Step 5: A spelling mistake should be introduced in the PolicyStatusObject for schema validation error in DUT. 5.2.6.2.3.3 Expected result The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met: 1) Step 3 validation has passed 2) Check the HTTP response recorded in step 6 of procedure and that the return code is "400 Bad request".

#### 5.2.6.3 Notify policy status –callback URI not supported (negative case)

##### 5.2.6.2.1 Test description and applicability
This purpose of this test case is to test the policy status notification functionality of A1-P Consumer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.2.4.3. The expected outcome is failure due to invalid callback URI. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-P service and supports the Notify policy status procedure.

##### 5.2.6.2.2 Test entrance criteria
The test entrance criteria in clause 5.2.6.1.2 applies.

##### 5.2.6.2.3 Test methodology
5.2.6.2.3.1 Initial conditions The initial conditions in clause 5.2.6.1.3.1 applies. 5.2.6.2.3.2 Procedure Steps 1-6 of 5.2.6.1.3.2 applies with the following modification:
- In Step 5. A spelling mistake should be introduced in the used callback URI making it different from the provided
notificationDestination and not identical to any callback URI supported in the DUT. 5.2.6.2.3.3 Expected result The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met: 1) Step 3 validation has passed 2) Check the HTTP response recorded in step 6 of procedure and that the return code is "400 Bad request".

## 5.3 Conformance test cases for A1-EI Producer

### 5.3.1 Query EI types test scenarios

#### 5.3.1.1 Query EI type identifiers (positive case)

##### 5.3.1.1.1 Test description and applicability
This purpose of this test case is to test query EI type identifiers functionality of A1-EI Producer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.3.2. The expected outcome is successful retrieval of EI type identifiers. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-EI service and Query EI type identifiers procedure.

##### 5.3.1.1.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT supports the Query EI type identifiers procedure. 2) The test simulator has the functionality to initiate A1-EI Query EI type identifiers procedure. 3) The DUT supports a known set of EI types (two or more) used for this test.

##### 5.3.1.1.3 Test methodology
5.3.1.1.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The DUT has A1-EI Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the test simulator. 2) The DUT supports the three different test configurations listed below to test complete functionality: a) DUT has no EI type available. b) DUT has a single EI type available. c) DUT has two or more EI types available. 5.3.1.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Send an HTTP GET request from test simulator to DUT with the correct URI format as specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.3.3 and empty message body. Step 2. At the test simulator the received HTTP response is recorded. Step 3. Repeat Step 1 and Step 2 for the three test configurations. 5.3.1.1.3.3 Expected result At the test simulator check the HTTP response recorded in Step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met for all three test configurations listed in clause 5.3.1.1.3.1: 1) The return code is "200 OK". 2) Response message body is validated depending on the test configuration used: a) If the DUT has no EI type available, message body is an empty array. b) If the DUT has single EI type available, message body contains an array with one eiTypeId. c) If the DUT has two or more EI jobs available, message body contains an array of all the eiTypeIds available in DUT.

#### 5.3.1.2 Query EI type (positive case)

##### 5.3.1.2.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test query EI type functionality of A1-EI Producer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.3.3. The expected outcome is successful retrieval of EI type object. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-EI service and the Query EI type procedure.

##### 5.3.1.2.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT supports the Query EI type procedure. 2) The test simulator has the functionality to initiate A1-EI Query EI type procedure. 3) The DUT and the test simulator have agreed on an EI type to use for this test. 4) The EI type identifier and the JSON schemas of the EI type used for this test are available and used in test simulator to formulate the Query EI request, and in DUT for selecting the appropriate schemas for the EI type object.

##### 5.3.1.2.3 Test methodology
5.3.1.2.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The DUT has A1-EI Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the test simulator. 2) The DUT has the EI type available. 5.3.1.2.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Send an HTTP GET request from test simulator to DUT with the correct URI format as specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.3.3 containing the known eiTypeId and empty message body. Step 2. At the test simulator the received HTTP response is recorded. 5.3.1.2.3.3 Expected result Check the HTTP response recorded in Step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met: 1) The return code is "200 OK". 2) Response message body content contains an EiTypeObject representing the read EI job.

#### 5.3.1.3 Query EI type (negative case) – eiTypeId not supported

##### 5.3.1.3.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test query EI type functionality of A1-EI Producer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.3.3. The expected outcome is failure due to eiTypeId not being supported. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-EI service and the Query EI type procedure.

##### 5.3.1.3.2 Test entrance criteria
The test entrance criteria specified in clause 5.3.1.2.2 applies, except that the agreed eiTypeId is NOT available in DUT.

##### 5.3.1.3.3 Test methodology
5.3.1.3.3.1 Initial conditions The initial conditions specified in clause 5.3.1.2.3.1 applies. 5.3.1.3.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Send an HTTP GET request from test simulator to DUT with the correct URI format as specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.3.3 containing the unsupported eiTypeId and with empty message body. Step 2. At the test simulator the received HTTP response is recorded. 5.3.1.3.3.3 Expected result Check the HTTP response recorded in Step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met: 1) The return code is "404 Not Found".
> NOTE: Presence or validation of optional ProblemDetails object in the response is not used to determine validation on
this test.

### 5.3.2 Create EI job test scenarios

#### 5.3.2.1 Create EI job (positive case)

##### 5.3.2.1.1 Test description and applicability
This purpose of this test case is to test the create EI job functionality of A1-EI Producer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.4.3. The expected outcome is successful creation of the EI job. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-EI service.

##### 5.3.2.1.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT and the test simulator have agreed on an EI type to use for this test. 2) The eiTypeId and the JSON schemas of the EI type used for this test are available and used in test simulator to formulate the Create EI job request, and in DUT to validate and handle the request. 3) The DUT supports the A1-EI Create EI job policy procedure. 4) The test simulator has the functionality to initiate Create EI job procedure.

##### 5.3.2.1.3 Test methodology
5.3.2.1.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The DUT has A1-EI Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the test simulator. 2) No EI job exists in the DUT for the agreed EI type with the same eiJobId that will be used by the test simulator. 5.3.2.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Send an HTTP PUT request from test simulator to DUT with the correct URI format as specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.3.3 including a new eiJobId, message body containing the EiJobObject in JSON format with the agreed eiTypeId included and conforming to the schema of the EI type. Step 2. At the test simulator the received HTTP response is recorded. 5.3.2.1.3.3 Expected result Check the HTTP response recorded in Step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met: 1) The return code is "201 Created". 2) Response message body content contains an EiJobObject representing the created EI job. 3) The location header is present and carries the URI of the new EI job.

#### 5.3.2.2 Create EI job (negative case) – eiTypeId not supported

##### 5.3.2.2.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the create EI job functionality of A1-EI Producer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.4.3. The expected outcome is failure due to eiTypeId not being supported. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-EI service

##### 5.3.2.2.2 Test entrance criteria
The test entrance criteria specified in clause 5.3.2.1.2 applies except that the agreed eiTypeId is NOT available in DUT.

##### 5.3.2.2.3 Test methodology
5.3.2.2.3.1 Initial conditions The initial conditions specified in clause 5.3.2.1.3.1 applies. 5.3.2.2.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Send an HTTP PUT request from test simulator to DUT with the correct URI format as specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.3.3, and a message body containing the EiJobObject in JSON format including the unsupported eiTypeId. Step 2. At the test simulator the received HTTP response is recorded. 5.3.2.2.3.2 Expected result Check the HTTP response recorded in Step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met: 1) The return code is "404 Not found".
> NOTE: Presence or validation of optional ProblemDetails object in the response is not used to determine validation on
this test.

#### 5.3.2.3 Create EI job (negative case) – schema validation failure

##### 5.3.2.3.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the create EI job functionality of A1-EI Producer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.4.3. The expected outcome is failure due to schema validation failure. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-EI service

##### 5.3.2.3.2 Test entrance criteria
The test entrance criteria specified in clause 5.3.2.1.2 applies.

##### 5.3.2.3.3 Test methodology
5.3.2.3.3.1 Initial conditions The initial conditions specified in clause 5.3.2.1.3.1 applies. 5.3.2.3.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Send an HTTP PUT request from test simulator to DUT with the correct URI as specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.3.3 and a message body containing the EiJobObject in JSON format. A spelling mistake should be introduced in the EiJobObject for schema validation error in DUT. Step 2. At the test simulator the received HTTP response is recorded. 5.3.2.3.3.2 Expected result Check the HTTP response recorded in Step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met: 1) The return code is "400 Bad Request".
> NOTE: Presence or validation of optional ProblemDetails object in the response is not used to determine validation on
this test.

### 5.3.3 Query EI jobs test scenarios

#### 5.3.3.1 Query EI job identifiers for a single EI type (positive case)

##### 5.3.3.1.1 Test description and applicability
This purpose of this test case is to test query EI job identifiers functionality of A1-EI Producer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.4.2. The expected outcome is successful retrieval of all EI job identifiers of a given EI type. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-EI service and Query EI job identifiers procedure.

##### 5.3.3.1.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT supports the Query EI job identifiers procedure. 2) The test simulator has the functionality to initiate A1-EI Query EI job identifiers procedure. 3) The DUT and the test simulator have agreed on an EI type to use for this test.

##### 5.3.3.1.3 Test methodology
5.3.3.1.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The DUT has A1-EI Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the test simulator. 2) The DUT supports the three different test configurations listed below to test complete functionality: a) DUT has no EI job available for the agreed EI type b) DUT has a single EI job available for the agreed EI type c) DUT has two or more EI job available for the agreed EI type 5.3.3.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Send an HTTP GET request from test simulator to DUT with the correct URI format as specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.3.3 with the agreed eiTypeId as query parameter and with empty message body. Step 2. At the test simulator the received HTTP response is recorded. Step 3. Repeat Step 1 and Step 2 for the three test configurations. 5.3.3.1.3.3 Expected result Check the HTTP response recorded in Step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met for all three test configurations: 1) The return code is "200 OK". 2) Response message body is validated depending on the three test configurations used in clause 5.3.3.1.3.1 a) If the DUT has no EI job available, message body is an empty array b) If the DUT has single EI job available, message body contains an array with one eiJobId available with the given EI type. c) If the DUT has two or more EI jobs available, message body contains an array of eiJobIds of all the available EI jobs of the given EI type.

#### 5.3.3.2 Query EI job identifiers for a single EI type (negative case) – eiTypeId not
supported

##### 5.3.3.2.1 Test description and applicability
This purpose of this test case is to test query EI job identifiers functionality of A1-EI Producer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.4.2. The expected outcome is failure due to eiTypeId not being supported. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-EI service and the Query EI job identifiers procedure.

##### 5.3.3.2.2 Test entrance criteria
The test entrance criteria specified in clause 5.3.3.1.2 applies, except that the agreed eiTypeId is NOT available in DUT.

##### 5.3.3.2.3 Test methodology
5.3.3.2.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The DUT has A1-EI Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the test simulator. 5.3.3.2.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Send an HTTP GET request from test simulator to DUT with the correct URI format as specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.3.3 with the unsupported eiTypeId included as query parameter and with empty message body. Step 2. At the test simulator the received HTTP response is recorded. 5.3.3.2.3.3 Expected result Check the HTTP response recorded in Step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met: 1) The return code is "400 Bad request".
> NOTE: Presence or validation of optional ProblemDetails object in the response is not used to determine validation on
this test.

#### 5.3.3.3 Query EI job identifiers for all EI types (positive case)

##### 5.3.3.3.1 Test description and applicability
This purpose of this test case is to test query EI job identifiers functionality of A1-EI Producer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.4.2. The expected outcome is successful retrieval of all EI job identifiers of all EI types. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-EI service and Query EI job identifiers procedure.

##### 5.3.3.3.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT supports the Query EI job identifiers procedure. 2) The test simulator has the functionality to initiate A1-EI Query EI job identifiers procedure. 3) The DUT supports a known set of EI types (two or more) used for this test.

##### 5.3.3.3.3 Test methodology
5.3.3.3.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The DUT has A1-EI Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the test simulator. 2) The DUT supports the two different test configurations listed below to test complete functionality: a) DUT has no EI job available for any of the EI types supported. b) DUT has one or more EI jobs available for each EI type supported. 5.3.3.3.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Send an HTTP GET request from test simulator to DUT with the correct URI format as specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.3.3 without eiTypeId included as query parameter and with empty message body. Step 2. At the test simulator the received HTTP response is recorded. Step 3. Repeat Step 1 and Step 2 for the two test configurations. 5.3.3.3.3.3 Expected result At the test simulator check the HTTP response recorded in Step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met for all two test configurations: 1) The return code is "200 OK". 2) Response message body is validated depending on the two test configurations used in clause 5.3.3.3.3.1 a) If the DUT has no EI job available, message body is an empty array. b) If the DUT has one or more EI jobs available, message body contains an array of eiJobIds of all the available EI jobs of all EI types.

#### 5.3.3.4 Query EI job (positive case)

##### 5.3.3.4.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test query EI job functionality of A1-EI Producer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.4.5. The expected outcome is successful retrieval of EI job for the given eiJobId. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-EI service and the Query EI job procedure.

##### 5.3.3.4.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT supports the Query EI job procedure. 2) The test simulator has the functionality to initiate A1-EI Query EI job procedure. 3) An EI job exists in the DUT and the eiJobId is known to the test simulator.

##### 5.3.3.4.3 Test methodology
5.3.3.4.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The DUT has A1-EI Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP request from the test simulator. 5.3.3.4.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Send an HTTP GET request from test simulator to DUT with the correct URI format as specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.3.3 containing the known eiJobId and with empty message body. Step 2. At the test simulator the received HTTP response is recorded. 5.3.3.4.3.3 Expected result Check the HTTP response recorded in Step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met: 1) The return code is "200 OK". 2) Response message body content contains an EiJobObject representing the read EI job.

#### 5.3.3.5 Query EI job (negative case) – EI job does not exist

##### 5.3.3.5.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test query EI job functionality of A1-EI Producer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.4.5. The expected outcome is failure due to EI job being non-existent. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-EI service and the Query EI job procedure.

##### 5.3.3.5.2 Test entrance criteria
The test entrance criteria specified in clause 5.3.3.4.2 applies, additionally an eiJobId to use for which no EI job exist in the DUT is known in advance.

##### 5.3.3.5.3 Test methodology
5.3.3.5.3.1 Initial conditions The initial conditions specified in clause 5.3.3.4.3.1 applies. 5.3.3.5.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Send an HTTP GET request from test simulator to DUT with the correct URI format as specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.3.3 containing the eiJobId for which no EI job exist and with empty message body. Step 2. At the test simulator the received HTTP response is recorded. 5.3.3.5.3.3 Expected result Check the HTTP response recorded in Step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met: 1) The return code is "404 Not Found".
> NOTE: Presence or validation of optional ProblemDetails object in the response is not used to determine validation on
this test.

### 5.3.4 Update EI job test scenarios

#### 5.3.4.1 Update EI job (positive case)

##### 5.3.4.1.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test update EI job functionality of A1-EI Producer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.4.4. The expected outcome is successful update of the EI job. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-EI service and Update EI job procedure.

##### 5.3.4.1.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT supports the Update EI job procedure. 2) The test simulator has the functionality to initiate Update EI job procedure. 3) An EI job exists in the DUT and the eiTypeID and eiJobID is known to the test simulator. 4) The EI type and the JSON schemas of the EI type used for this test are available and used in test simulator to formulate the Update EI job request, and in DUT to validate and handle the request.

##### 5.3.4.1.3 Test methodology
5.3.4.1.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The DUT has A1-EI Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP request from the test simulator. 5.3.4.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Send an HTTP PUT request from test simulator to DUT with the correct URI format as specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.3.3 and message body containing the EiJobObject in JSON format with the agreed eiTypeId included and confirming to the schema of the EI type. Step 2. At the test simulator the received HTTP response is recorded. 5.3.4.1.3.2 Expected result Check the HTTP response recorded in Step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met: 1) The return code is "200 OK". 2) Response message body content contains an EiJobObject representing the updated EI job sent in Step 1.

#### 5.3.4.2 Update EI job (negative case) – schema validation failure

##### 5.3.4.2.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test update EI job functionality of A1-EI Producer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.4.4. The expected outcome is failure to update the EI job due to schema validation failure. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-EI service and Update EI job procedure.

##### 5.3.4.2.2 Test entrance criteria
The test entrance criteria specified in clause 5.3.4.1.2 applies.

##### 5.3.4.2.3 Test methodology
5.3.4.2.3.1 Initial conditions The initial conditions specified in clause 5.3.4.1.3.1 applies. 5.3.4.2.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Send an HTTP PUT request from test simulator to DUT with the correct URI as specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.3.3 and a message body containing the EiJobObject in JSON format. A spelling mistake should be introduced in the EiJobObject for schema validation error in the DUT. Step 2. At the test simulator the received HTTP response is recorded. 5.3.4.2.3.2 Expected result Check the HTTP response recorded in Step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met: 1) The return code is "400 Bad Request".
> NOTE: Presence or validation of optional ProblemDetails object in the response is not used to determine validation on
this test.

### 5.3.5 Delete EI job test scenarios

#### 5.3.5.1 Delete EI job (positive case)

##### 5.3.5.1.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the delete EI job functionality of A1-EI Producer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.4.6. The expected outcome is successful deletion of EI job. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-EI service and the Delete EI job procedure.

##### 5.3.5.1.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT supports the Delete EI job procedure. 2) The test simulator has the functionality to initiate A1-EI Delete EI job procedure. 3) An EI job exists in DUT and the eiJobId is known to test simulator.

##### 5.3.5.1.3 Test methodology
5.3.5.1.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The DUT has A1-EI Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP request from the test simulator. 5.3.5.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Send an HTTP DELETE request from test simulator to DUT with the correct URI format as specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.3.3 containing the known eiJobId and with empty message body. Step 2. At the test simulator the received HTTP response is recorded. 5.3.5.1.3.3 Expected result Check the HTTP response recorded in Step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met: 1) The return code is "204 No Content" 2) The message body is empty.

#### 5.3.5.2 Delete EI job (negative case) – EI job does not exist

##### 5.3.5.2.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the delete EI job functionality of A1-EI Producer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.4.6. The expected outcome is failure due to EI job being non-existent. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-EI service and the Delete EI job procedure.

##### 5.3.5.2.2 Test entrance criteria
The test entrance criteria specified in clause 5.3.5.1.2 applies, additionally the eiJobId to use for which no EI job exists in the DUT is known in advance.

##### 5.3.5.2.3 Test methodology
5.3.5.2.3.1 Initial conditions The initial conditions specified in clause 5.3.5.1.3.1 applies. 5.3.5.2.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Send an HTTP DELETE request from test simulator to DUT with the correct URI format as specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.3.3 containing the unsupported eiJobId and with empty message body. Step 2. At the test simulator the received HTTP response is recorded. 5.3.5.2.3.3 Expected result Check the HTTP response recorded in Step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met: 1) The return code is "404 Not Found".
> NOTE: Presence or validation of optional ProblemDetails object in the response is not used to determine validation on
this test.

### 5.3.6 Status of EI jobs test scenarios

#### 5.3.6.1 Query EI job status (positive case)

##### 5.3.6.1.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the query EI job status functionality of A1-EI Producer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.4.7. The expected outcome is successful retrieval of EI job status object. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-EI service and the Query EI job status procedure.

##### 5.3.6.1.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT supports the Query EI job status procedure. 2) The test simulator has the functionality to initiate A1-EI Query EI job status procedure. 3) An EI job exists in the DUT and test simulator is aware of the eiJobId.

##### 5.3.6.1.3 Test methodology
5.3.6.1.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The DUT has A1-EI Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the test simulator. 5.3.6.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Send an HTTP GET request from test simulator to DUT with the correct URI format as specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.3.3 containing the known eiJobId and with empty message body. Step 2. At the test simulator the received HTTP response is recorded. 5.3.6.1.3.2 Expected result Check the HTTP response recorded in step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met: 1) The return code is "200 OK". 2) Response message body content contains an EiJobStatusObject representing the status of the EI job.

#### 5.3.6.2 Query EI job status (negative case) EI job does not exist

##### 5.3.6.2.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the query EI job status functionality of A1-EI Producer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.4.7. The expected outcome is failure due to EI job being non-existent. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-EI service and the Query EI job status procedure.

##### 5.3.6.2.2 Test entrance criteria
The test entrance criteria specified in clause 5.3.6.1.2 applies, additionally an eiJobId to use for which no EI job exist in the DUT is known in advance.

##### 5.3.6.2.3 Test methodology
5.3.6.2.3.1 Initial conditions The initial conditions specified in clause 5.3.6.1.3.1 applies. 5.3.6.2.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Send an HTTP GET request from test simulator to DUT with the correct URI format as specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.3.3 containing the eiJobId for which no EI job exist and with empty message body. Step 2. At the test simulator the received HTTP response is recorded. 5.3.6.2.3.2 Expected result Check the HTTP response recorded in step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met: 1) The return code is "404 Not Found".
> NOTE: Presence or validation of optional ProblemDetails object in the response is not used to determine validation on
this test.

#### 5.3.6.3 Notify EI job status (positive case)

##### 5.3.6.3.1 Test description and applicability
This purpose of this test case is to test the notify EI job status functionality of A1-EI Producer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.4.8. The expected outcome is successful request for EI job status. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-EI service and supports the Notify EI job status procedure.

##### 5.3.6.3.2 Test entrance criteria
The test entrance criteria for Create EI job specified in clause 5.3.2.1.2 applies.

##### 5.3.6.3.3 Test methodology
5.3.6.3.3.1 Initial conditions The initial conditions for Create EI job specified in clause 5.3.2.1.3.1 applies. 5.3.6.3.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Same as for Create EI job, see clause 5.3.2.1.3.2, including the jobStatusNotificationUri parameter in the EiJobObject. Step 2. At the test simulator the received HTTP response is recorded. Step 3. Same as Step 1 but with another jobStatusNotificationUri parameter included. Step 4. At the test simulator the received HTTP response is recorded. Step 5. Same as Step 1 but without a jobStatusNotificationUri parameter included. Step 6. At the test simulator the received HTTP response is recorded.
> NOTE: Steps 3-4 and 5-6 correspond to the procedure for Update EI job but it is not required that the EiJobObject in the
message body is modified in the test case for Notify EI job status except for the jobStatusNotificationUri. 5.3.6.3.3.3 Expected result Check the HTTP response recorded in Step 2, 4 and 6 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met: 1) The return code is "201 Created" in Step 2. 2) The return code is "200 OK" in Step 4. 3) The return code is "200 OK" in Step 6.

### 5.3.7 Deliver EI job result test scenarios

#### 5.3.7.1 Deliver EI job result (positive case)

##### 5.3.7.1.1 Test description and applicability
This purpose of this test case is to test the deliver EI job result functionality of A1-EI Producer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.5.2. The expected outcome is successful request for EI job results. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-EI service and supports the Deliver EI job result procedure.

##### 5.3.7.1.2 Test entrance criteria
The test entrance criteria for Create EI job specified in clause 5.3.2.1.2 applies.

##### 5.3.7.1.3 Test methodology
5.3.7.1.3.1 Initial conditions The initial conditions for Create EI job specified in clause 5.3.2.1.3.1 applies. 5.3.7.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Same as for Create EI job, see clause 5.3.2.1.3.2, including the jobResultUri parameter in the EiJobObject. Step 2. At the test simulator the received HTTP response is recorded. Step 3. Same as Step 1 but with another jobResultUri parameter included. Step 4. At the test simulator the received HTTP response is recorded.
> NOTE: Steps 3-4 correspond to the procedure for Update EI job, but it is not required that the EiJobObject in the
message body is modified in the test case for Deliver EI job status except for the jobResultUri. 5.3.7.1.3.3 Expected result Check the HTTP response recorded in Step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met: 1) The return code is "201 Created" in Step 2. 2) The return code is "200 OK" in Step 4.

#### 5.3.7.2 Deliver EI job result – no callback (negative case)

##### 5.3.7.2.1 Test description and applicability
This purpose of this test case is to test the deliver EI job result functionality of A1-EI Producer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.5.2. The expected outcome is successful request for EI job results. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-EI service and supports the Deliver EI job result procedure.

##### 5.3.7.2.2 Test entrance criteria
The test entrance criteria specified in clause 5.3.7.1.2 applies.

##### 5.3.7.2.3 Test methodology
5.3.7.2.3.1 Initial conditions The initial conditions specified in clause 5.3.7.1.3.1 applies. 5.3.7.2.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Same as for Create EI job, see clause 5.3.2.1.3.2 but without a jobResultUri parameter included. Step 2. At the test simulator the received HTTP response is recorded. 5.3.7.2.3.3 Expected result Check the HTTP response recorded in Step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met: The return code is "400 Bad request" in Step 2.

# 6 Test cases for Near-RT RIC

## 6.1 General

### 6.1.1 Device under test requirements
The Near-RT RIC that acts as Device Under Test (DUT) in the test scenarios of this clause can be a function that is under development, or it can be a finalised commercial product. The requirements on the DUT for these tests are that it can handle the procedures defined for a Near-RT RIC and the purpose of the test scenarios is to validate that it conforms to the A1 service definitions in A1AP [4], clause 5. In addition to the basic conformance requirements, the following is required for a Near-RT RIC when it acts as DUT:
- It shall be possible for the DUT to initiate the A1-EI procedures in a controlled manner for each A1-EI related test
case.
- For A1-P related test cases, it shall be possible for the DUT to support A1 policy types to use in the test cases after
agreement with the test simulator. It shall be possible to validate PolicyObjects based on agreed policy types.
- For A1-EI related test cases, it shall be possible for the DUT to support EI types to use in the test cases after
agreement with the test simulator. It shall be possible to validate EiJobStatusObjects based on agreed EI types, and it shall be possible to formulate EI jobs based on the schemas of the agreed EI types.
> NOTE: The present document does not require usage of any specific policy type or EI type since specific behaviour is
not validated, only the application protocol aspects and procedures are validated for conformance testing of the A1 services.

### 6.1.2 Test simulator capabilities
The test simulator has the same basic capabilities as required for a Non-RT RIC. In addition, it has the following capabilities:
- Recording of received HTTP requests and responses and analysing them regarding compliance to the A1 service
definitions.
- Controlled initiation of procedures with configurable URIs and payload formulated and modified based on the
schemas of the agreed policy types and EI types.
- Validating messages and issuing of verdicts related to the procedures in the test cases and thereby enabling
determination of the DUT’s conformance to the A1 service definitions in A1AP [4], clause 5.

## 6.2 Conformance Test Cases for A1-P Producer

### 6.2.1 Query policy type test scenarios

#### 6.2.1.1 Query all policy type identifiers (positive case)

##### 6.2.1.1.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the query policy types functionality of A1-P Producer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.2.3.2. The expected outcome is successful retrieval of policy type identifiers. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-P service and the Query all policy type identifiers procedure.

##### 6.2.1.1.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT supports the Query all policy type identifiers procedure. 2) The test simulator has the functionality to initiate A1-P Query all policy type identifiers procedure. 3) A set of policy types (at least two) are supported in the DUT.

##### 6.2.1.1.3 Test methodology
6.2.1.1.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The DUT has A1-P Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the test simulator. 2) The DUT supports the three different test configurations listed below to test complete functionality: a) DUT has no policy types available. b) DUT has a single policy type available. c) DUT has two or more policy types available. 6.2.1.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Send an HTTP GET request from test simulator to DUT with the correct URI format as specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.2.3 and message body is empty. Step 2. At the test simulator the received HTTP response is recorded. Step 3. Repeat Step 1 and Step 2 for the three test configurations. 6.2.1.1.3.3 Expected result Check the HTTP response recorded in Step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met for all three test configurations listed in clause 6.2.1.1.3.1: 1) The return code is "200 OK". 2) Response message body is validated depending on the three test configurations used: a) If the DUT has no policy types available, message body is an empty array b) If the DUT has single policy type available, message body contains an array with one policyTypeId. c) If the DUT has two or more policy types available, message body contains an array with all the policyTypeIds available in DUT.

#### 6.2.1.2 Query single policy type (positive case)

##### 6.2.1.2.1 Test description and applicability
This purpose of this test case is to test the query policy type functionality of A1-P Producer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.2.3.3. The expected outcome is successful retrieval of the policy type object. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-P service and the Query single policy type procedure.

##### 6.2.1.2.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT supports the Query single policy type procedure. 2) The test simulator has the functionality to initiate A1-P Query single policy type procedure. 3) A known set of policy types are supported in the DUT. 4) The policy type identifier used for this test is known in advance and used in test simulator to formulate the Query single policy type request, and in the DUT for selecting the appropriate schemas for the policy type object.

##### 6.2.1.2.3 Test methodology
6.2.1.2.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The DUT has A1-P Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the test simulator. 2) The DUT has the policy types available. 6.2.1.2.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Send an HTTP GET request from test simulator to DUT with the correct URI format as specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.2.3, including a known policyTypeId, and empty message body. Step 2. At the test simulator the received HTTP response is recorded. 6.2.1.2.3.3 Expected result Check the HTTP response recorded in Step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met: 1) The return code is "200 OK". 2) Response message body content contains a PolicyTypeObject representing the read policy type.

#### 6.2.1.3 Query single policy type (negative case) – policyTypeId not supported

##### 6.2.1.3.1 Test description and applicability
This purpose of this test case is to test the query policy type functionality of A1-P Producer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.2.3.3. The expected outcome is failure due to policyTypeId not being supported. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-P service and the Query single policy type procedure.

##### 6.2.1.3.2 Test entrance criteria
The test entrance criteria specified in clause 6.2.1.2.2 applies, except that the agreed policyTypeId is NOT available in DUT.

##### 6.2.1.3.3 Test methodology
6.2.1.3.3.1 Initial conditions The initial conditions specified in clause 6.2.1.2.3.1 applies. 6.2.1.3.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Send an HTTP GET request from test simulator to DUT with the correct URI format as specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.2.3 containing the unsupported policyTypeId and with empty message body. Step 2. At the test simulator the received HTTP response is recorded. 6.2.1.3.3.3 Expected result Check the HTTP response recorded in Step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met: 1) The return code is "404 Not Found".
> NOTE: Presence or validation of optional ProblemDetails object in the response is not used to determine validation on
this test.

### 6.2.2 Create policy test scenarios

#### 6.2.2.1 Create single policy (positive case)

##### 6.2.2.1.1 Test description and applicability
This purpose of this test case is to test the create policy functionality of A1-P Producer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.2.4.3. The expected outcome is successful creation of the policy. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-P service.

##### 6.2.2.1.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT supports the A1-P Create single policy procedure. 2) The test simulator has the functionality to initiate A1-P Create single policy procedure. 3) DUT and the test simulator have agreed on a policy type to use for this test. 4) The policyTypeId and the JSON schemas of the policy type used for this test are available and used in test simulator to formulate the Create single policy request, and in DUT to validate and handle the request.

##### 6.2.2.1.3 Test methodology
6.2.2.1.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The DUT has A1-P Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the test simulator. 2) No policy exists in the DUT for the agreed policy type with the same policyId that will be used by the test simulator. 6.2.2.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Send an HTTP PUT request from test simulator to DUT with the correct URI format as specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.2.3 including policyTypeId and a new policyId, and message body containing the PolicyObject in JSON format conforming to the schema of the used policy type. Step 2. At the test simulator the received HTTP response is recorded. 6.2.2.1.3.3 Expected result Check the HTTP response recorded in Step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met: 1) The return code is "201 Created". 2) Response message body content contains a PolicyObject representing the created policy. 3) The location header is present and carries the URI of the new policy.

#### 6.2.2.2 Create policy (negative case) - schema validation failure

##### 6.2.2.2.1 Test description and applicability
This purpose of this test case is to test the create policy functionality of A1-P Producer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.2.4.3. The expected outcome is failure due to schema validation failure. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-P service.

##### 6.2.2.2.2 Test entrance criteria
The test entrance criteria specified in clause 6.2.6.1.2 applies.

##### 6.2.2.2.3 Test methodology
6.2.2.2.3.1 Initial conditions The initial conditions specified in clause 6.2.6.1.3.1 applies. 6.2.2.2.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Send an HTTP PUT request from test simulator to DUT with the correct URI as specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.2.3 and a message body containing the PolicyObject in JSON format. A spelling mistake should be introduced in the PolicyObject for schema validation error in DUT. Step 2. At the test simulator the received HTTP response is recorded. 6.2.2.2.3.3 Expected result Check the HTTP response recorded in Step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met: 1) The return code is "400 Bad Request".
> NOTE: Presence or validation of optional ProblemDetails object in the response is not used to determine validation on
this test.

#### 6.2.2.3 Create policy (negative case) – policyTypeId not supported

##### 6.2.2.3.1 Test description and applicability
This purpose of this test case is to test the create policy functionality of A1-P Producer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.2.4.3. The expected outcome is failure due to policyTypeId not being supported. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-P service.

##### 6.2.2.3.2 Test entrance criteria
The test entrance criteria specified in clause 6.2.6.1.2 applies except that the agreed policyTypeId is NOT available in DUT.

##### 6.2.2.3.3 Test methodology
6.2.2.3.3.1 Initial conditions The initial conditions specified in clause 6.2.6.1.3.1 applies. 6.2.2.3.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Send an HTTP PUT request from test simulator to DUT with the incorrect URI, i.e., containing the not supported policyTypeId, and a message body containing the PolicyObject in JSON format. Step 2. At the test simulator the received HTTP response is recorded. 6.2.2.3.3.3 Expected result Check the HTTP response recorded in Step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met: 1) The return code is "404 Not Found".
> NOTE: Presence or validation of optional ProblemDetails object in the response is not used to determine validation on
this test.

### 6.2.3 Query policy test scenarios

#### 6.2.3.1 Query all policy identifiers (positive case)

##### 6.2.3.1.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the query policies functionality of A1-P Producer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.2.4.2. The expected outcome is successful retrieval of policy identifiers. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-P service and the Query all policy identifiers procedure.

##### 6.2.3.1.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT supports Query all policy identifiers procedure. 2) The test simulator has the functionality to initiate A1-P Query all policy identifiers procedure. 3) The DUT and the test simulator have agreed on a policy type to use for this test.

##### 6.2.3.1.3 Test methodology
6.2.3.1.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The DUT has A1-P Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the test simulator. 2) The DUT supports the three different test configurations listed below to test complete functionality: a) DUT has no policies available for the agreed policy type b) DUT has a single policy available for the agreed policy type c) DUT has two or more policies available for the agreed policy type 6.2.3.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Send an HTTP GET request from test simulator to DUT with the correct URI format as specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.2.3 and empty message body. Step 2. At the test simulator the received HTTP response is recorded. Step 3. Repeat Step 1 and Step 2 for the three test configurations 6.2.3.1.3.3 Expected result Check the HTTP response recorded in Step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met for all three test configurations specified in clause 6.2.3.1.3.1: 1) The return code is "200 OK". 2) Response message body is validated depending on the three test configurations used: a) If the DUT has no policies available, message body is an empty array b) If the DUT has single policy available, message body contains an array with one policyId available with the given policy type. c) If the DUT has two or more policies available, message body contains an array of policyIds of all the available policies of the given policy type.

#### 6.2.3.2 Query all policy identifiers (negative case) – policyTypeId not supported

##### 6.2.3.2.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the query policies functionality of A1-P Producer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.2.4.2. The expected outcome is failure due to policyTypeId not being supported. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-P service and the Query all policy identifiers procedure.

##### 6.2.3.2.2 Test entrance criteria
The test entrance criteria specified in clause 6.2.3.1.2 applies, except that the agreed policyTypeId is NOT available in DUT.

##### 6.2.3.2.3 Test methodology
6.2.3.2.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The DUT has A1-P Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the test simulator. 6.2.3.2.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Send an HTTP GET request from test simulator to DUT with the correct URI format as specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.2.3 and empty message body. Step 2. At the test simulator the received HTTP response is recorded. 6.2.3.2.3.3 Expected result Check the HTTP response recorded in Step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met: 1) The appropriate error code "404 Not Found" is returned.
> NOTE: Presence or validation of optional ProblemDetails object in the response is not used to determine validation on
this test.

#### 6.2.3.3 Query single policy (positive case)

##### 6.2.3.3.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the query policy functionality of A1-P Producer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.2.4.5. The expected outcome is successful retrieval of policy object. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-P service and the Query single policy procedure.

##### 6.2.3.3.2 Test entrance criteria
1) A policy exists in the DUT and test simulator is aware of the policyTypeId and policyId 2) The DUT supports the Query single policy procedure. 3) The test simulator has the functionality to initiate A1-P Query single policy procedure.

##### 6.2.3.3.3 Test methodology
6.2.3.3.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The DUT supports the Query single policy procedure. 2) The test simulator has the functionality to initiate A1-P Query single policy procedure. 6.2.3.3.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Send an HTTP GET request from test simulator to DUT with the correct URI format as specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.2.3 and empty message body. Step 2. At the test simulator the received HTTP response is recorded. 6.2.3.3.3.3 Expected result Check the HTTP response recorded in Step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met: 1) The return code is "200 OK". 2) Response message body content contains a PolicyObject representing the read policy.

#### 6.2.3.4 Query single policy (negative case) – policy does not exist

##### 6.2.3.4.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the query policy functionality of A1-P Producer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.2.4.5. The expected outcome is failure due to policy being non-existent. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-P service and the Query single policy procedure.

##### 6.2.3.4.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT supports Query single policy procedure. 2) The test simulator has the functionality to initiate A1-P Query single policy procedure. 3) test simulator is aware of the policyTypeId and policyId to use for which no policy exists in the DUT.

##### 6.2.3.4.3 Test methodology
6.2.3.4.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The DUT has A1-P Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the test simulator. 6.2.3.4.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Send an HTTP GET request from test simulator to DUT with the correct URI format as specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.2.3 and empty message body. Step 2. At the test simulator the received HTTP response is recorded. 6.2.3.4.3.3 Expected result Check the HTTP response recorded in Step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met: 1) The return code is "404 Not Found".
> NOTE: Presence or validation of optional ProblemDetails object in the response is not used to determine validation on
this test.

#### 6.2.3.5 Query policy status (positive case)

##### 6.2.3.5.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the query policy status functionality of A1-P Producer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.2.4.7. The expected outcome is successful retrieval of policy status object. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-P service and the Query policy status procedure.

##### 6.2.3.5.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT supports the Query policy status procedure. 2) The test simulator has the functionality to initiate A1-P Query policy status procedure. 3) A policy exists in the DUT and the policyTypeId and policyId is known to the test simulator.

##### 6.2.3.5.3 Test methodology
6.2.3.5.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The DUT has A1-P Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the test simulator. 6.2.3.5.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Send an HTTP GET request from test simulator to DUT with the correct URI format as specified in in A1AP [4] clause 6.2.3 and empty message body. Step 2. At the test simulator the received HTTP response is recorded. 6.2.3.5.3.3 Expected result Check the HTTP response recorded in Step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met: 1) The return code is "200 OK". 2) Response message body content contains a PolicyStatusObject representing the status of the policy.

#### 6.2.3.6 Query policy status (negative case) – policy does not exist

##### 6.2.3.6.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the query policy status functionality of A1-P Producer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.2.4.7. The expected outcome is failure due to policy being non-existent. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-P service and the Query policy status procedure.

##### 6.2.3.6.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT supports Query policy status procedure. 2) The test simulator has the functionality to initiate A1-P Query policy status procedure. 3) Test simulator is aware of the policyTypeId and policyId to use for which no policy exists in the DUT.

##### 6.2.3.6.3 Test methodology
6.2.3.6.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The DUT has A1-P Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the test simulator. 2) No policy exists for the policyTypeId and policyId that will be used by the test simulator. 6.2.3.6.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Send an HTTP GET request from test simulator to DUT with the correct URI format as specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.2.3 and empty message body. Step 2. At the test simulator the received HTTP response is recorded. 6.2.3.6.3.3 Expected result Check the HTTP response recorded in Step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met: 1) The return code is "404 Not Found".
> NOTE: Presence or validation of optional ProblemDetails object in the response is not used to determine validation on
this test.

### 6.2.4 Update policy test scenarios

#### 6.2.4.1 Update single policy (positive case)

##### 6.2.4.1.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the update policy functionality of A1-P Producer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.2.4.4. The expected outcome is successful update of the policy. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-P service and the Update single policy procedure.

##### 6.2.4.1.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT supports the Update single policy procedure. 2) The test simulator has the functionality to initiate A1-P Update single policy procedure. 3) A policy exists in the DUT and the policyTypeId and policyId is known to the test simulator. 4) Policy type identifiers used for this test are known in advance and used in DUT to formulate the Update single policy request, in test simulator for selecting the appropriate schemas for the policy type object.

##### 6.2.4.1.3 Test methodology
6.2.4.1.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The DUT has A1-P Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP request from the test simulator. 6.2.4.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Send an HTTP PUT request from test simulator to DUT with the correct URI as specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.2.3 and message body containing the PolicyObject in JSON format. Step 2. At the test simulator the received HTTP response is recorded. 6.2.4.1.3.3 Expected result Check the HTTP response recorded in Step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met: 1) The return code is "200 OK". 2) Response message body content is verified to match the PolicyObject sent in Step 1.

#### 6.2.4.2 Update single policy (negative case) – schema validation failure

##### 6.2.4.2.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the update policy functionality of A1-P Producer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.2.4.4. The expected outcome is failure due to schema validation failure. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-P service and the Update single policy procedure.

##### 6.2.4.2.2 Test entrance criteria
The test entrance criteria specified in clause 6.2.6.1.2 applies.

##### 6.2.4.2.3 Test methodology
6.2.4.2.3.1 Initial conditions The initial conditions specified in clause 6.2.4.1.3.1 applies. 6.2.4.2.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Send an HTTP PUT request from test simulator to DUT with the correct URI format as specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.2.3 and a message body containing the PolicyObject in JSON format. A spelling mistake should be introduced in the PolicyObject for schema validation error in DUT Step 2. At the test simulator the received HTTP response is recorded. 6.2.4.2.3.3 Expected result Check the HTTP response recorded in Step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met: 1) The return code is "400 Bad Request".
> NOTE: Presence or validation of optional ProblemDetails object in the response is not used to determine validation on
this test.

### 6.2.5 Delete policy test scenarios

#### 6.2.5.1 Delete single policy (positive case)

##### 6.2.5.1.1 Test description and applicability
This purpose of this test case is to test the delete policy functionality of A1-P Producer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.2.4.6. The expected outcome is successful deletion of the policy This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-P service.

##### 6.2.5.1.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT supports the Delete policy procedure 2) The test simulator has the functionality to initiate Delete policy procedure. 3) A policy exists in the DUT and the policyTypeId and policyId is known to the test simulator.

##### 6.2.5.1.3 Test methodology
6.2.5.1.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The DUT has A1-P Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the test simulator. 6.2.5.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Send an HTTP DELETE request from test simulator to DUT with the correct URI format as specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.2.3. Step 2. At the test simulator the received HTTP response is recorded. 6.2.5.1.3.3 Expected result Check the HTTP response recorded in Step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met: 1) The return code is "204 No content". 2) Response message body is empty.

#### 6.2.5.2 Delete single policy (negative case) – policy does not exist

##### 6.2.5.2.1 Test description and applicability
This purpose of this test case is to test the delete policy functionality of A1-P Producer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.2.4.6. The expected outcome is failure due to policy being non-existent. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-P service.

##### 6.2.5.2.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT supports the Delete single procedure. 2) The test simulator has the functionality to initiate Delete single policy procedure. 3) Test simulator is aware of the policyTypeId and policyId to use for which no policy exists in the DUT.

##### 6.2.5.2.3 Test methodology
6.2.5.2.3.1 Initial conditions 1) DUT has A1-P Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the test simulator. 2) No policy exists in DUT for the policyTypeId and policyId that will be used by the test simulator. 6.2.5.2.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Send an HTTP DELETE request from test simulator to DUT with the correct URI format as specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.2.3 and empty message body. Step 2. At the test simulator the received HTTP response is recorded. 6.2.5.2.3.3 Expected result Check the HTTP response recorded in Step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met: 1) The return code is "404 Not Found".
> NOTE: Presence or validation of optional ProblemDetails object in the response is not used to determine validation on
this test.

### 6.2.6 Notify policy status test scenarios

#### 6.2.6.1 Notify policy status (positive case)

##### 6.2.6.1.1 Test description and applicability
This purpose of this test case is to test the policy status notification functionality of A1-P Producer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.2.4.8. The expected outcome is successful request for policy status. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-P service and supports the Notify policy status procedure.

##### 6.2.6.1.2 Test entrance criteria
The test entrance criteria for Create single policy specified in clause 6.2.2.1.2 applies.

##### 6.2.6.1.3 Test methodology
6.2.6.1.3.1 Initial conditions The initial conditions for Create single policy specified in clause 6.2.2.1.3.1 applies. 6.2.6.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Same as for Create single policy, see clause 6.2.2.1.3.2, including the notificationDestination query parameter. Step 2. At the test simulator the received HTTP response is recorded. Step 3. Same as Step 1 but with another notificationDestination query parameter included. Step 4. At the test simulator the received HTTP response is recorded. Step 5. Same as Step 1 but without a notificationDestination query parameter included. Step 6. At the test simulator the received HTTP response is recorded.
> NOTE: Steps 3-4 and 5-6 correspond to the procedure for Update single policy but it is not required that the
PolicyObject in the message body is modified in the test case for Notify policy status. 6.2.6.1.3.3 Expected result Check the HTTP response recorded in Step 2, 4 and 6 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met: 1) The return code is "201 Created" in Step 2. 2) The return code is "200 OK" in Step 4. 3) The return code is "200 OK" in Step 6.

## 6.3 Conformance test cases for A1-EI Consumer

### 6.3.1 Query EI types test scenarios

#### 6.3.1.1 Query EI type identifiers (positive case)

##### 6.3.1.1.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test query EI type identifiers functionality of A1-EI Consumer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.3.2. The expected outcome is successful validation of the Query EI type identifiers request. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-EI service and the Query EI type identifiers procedure.

##### 6.3.1.1.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate A1-EI Query EI type identifiers procedure. 2) The test simulator supports the Query EI type identifiers procedure.

##### 6.3.1.1.3 Test methodology
6.3.1.1.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The test simulator has A1-EI Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 6.3.1.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Initiate appropriate action in the DUT to initiate Query EI type identifiers request. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request are recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.3.3. b) The HTTP request is a GET operation. c) The message body is empty. Step 4. The test simulator generates the appropriate HTTP response as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.3.2.1. 6.3.1.1.3.3 Expected result The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

#### 6.3.1.2 Query EI type (positive case)

##### 6.3.1.2.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test query EI type functionality of A1-EI Consumer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.3.3. The expected outcome is successful validation of the Query EI type request. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-EI service and the Query EI type procedure.

##### 6.3.1.2.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has the functionality to initiate A1-P Query EI type procedure. 2) A known set of EI types are supported in the test simulator. 3) The EI type identifier used for this test is known in advance and available in DUT to send the Query EI type request for the corresponding EI type and used by the test simulator for selecting the appropriate schemas for the EI job object.

##### 6.3.1.2.3 Test methodology
6.3.1.2.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The test simulator has A1-EI Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 2) The test simulator has EI types available. 6.3.1.2.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Initiate appropriate action in the DUT to initiate Query EI type request with a known eiTypeId. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request are recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The HTTP request is a GET operation. b) The URI conforms to the format specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.3.3. c) The HTTP request message body is empty. d) The eiTypeId in the URI match the EI type being queried. Step 4. The test simulator generates the appropriate HTTP response as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.3.3.1. 6.3.1.2.3.3 Expected result The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

### 6.3.2 Create EI job test scenarios

#### 6.3.2.1 Create EI job (positive case)

##### 6.3.2.1.1 Test description and applicability
This purpose of this test case is to test the create EI job functionality of A1-EI Consumer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.4.3. The expected outcome is successful validation of the EI job creation request. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-EI service.

##### 6.3.2.1.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT and the test simulator have agreed on an EI type to use for this test. 2) The eiTypeId and the JSON schemas of the EI type used for this test are available and used in DUT to formulate the Create EI job request, and in test simulator to validate the request. 3) The DUT has the functionality to initiate A1-EI Create EI job procedure.

##### 6.3.2.1.3 Test methodology
6.3.2.1.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The test simulator has A1-EI Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 2) No EI job exists in the test simulator for the agreed EI type with the same eiJobId that will be used by the DUT.
> NOTE: The DUT is required to generate a unique eiJobId during the Create EI job procedure (see A1AP [4] clause
5.3.4.3). 6.3.2.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Initiate appropriate action in the DUT to initiate Create EI job request for the agreed EI type. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request are recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.3.3. b) The HTTP request is a PUT operation. c) The eiTypeId is supported. d) An EI job with the eiJobId does not exist. e) The HTTP request message body contains the EiJobObject of the EI job to be created and the EiJobObject conforms to the schema. Step 4. The test simulator generates the appropriate HTTP response as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.4.3.1. 6.3.2.1.3.3 Expected result The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.
> NOTE: Presence or validation of optional parameter for jobStatusNotificationUri is not used to determine validation on
this test.

### 6.3.3 Query EI jobs test scenarios

#### 6.3.3.1 Query EI job identifiers for a single EI type (positive case)

##### 6.3.3.1.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test query EI job identifiers functionality of A1-EI Consumer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.4.2. The expected outcome is successful validation of the Query EI job identifiers request querying for a single EI type. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-EI service and the Query EI job identifiers procedure.

##### 6.3.3.1.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate A1-EI Query EI job identifiers procedure. 2) An EI type is agreed to be used in this test and the eiTypeId is known in advance. 3) A set of EI jobs (at least two) exist in the test simulator for the agreed EI type.

##### 6.3.3.1.3 Test methodology
6.3.3.1.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The test simulator has A1-EI Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 2) The test simulator has EI jobs available for the agreed EI type. 6.3.3.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Initiate appropriate action in the DUT to initiate Query EI job identifiers request for the agreed EI type. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request are recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The HTTP request is a GET operation. b) The URI conforms to the format specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.3.3. c) The message body is empty. d) A query parameter with an eiTypeId is included. Step 4. The test simulator generates the appropriate HTTP response as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.4.2.1. 6.3.3.1.3.3 Expected result The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

#### 6.3.3.2 Query EI job identifiers for all EI types (positive case)

##### 6.3.3.2.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test query EI job identifiers functionality of A1-EI Consumer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.4.2. The expected outcome is successful validation of the Query EI job identifiers request querying for all EI types. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-EI service and the Query EI job identifiers procedure.

##### 6.3.3.2.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate A1-EI Query EI job identifiers procedure. 2) The test simulator supports at least one EI type.

##### 6.3.3.2.3 Test methodology
6.3.3.2.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The test simulator has A1-EI Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 2) One or more EI jobs exist in the test simulator for each EI type supported. 6.3.3.2.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Initiate appropriate action in the DUT to initiate Query EI job identifiers request for all EI types. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request are recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.3.3. b) The HTTP request is a GET operation. c) No query parameter with an eiTypeId is included. d) The message body is empty. Step 4. The test simulator generates the appropriate HTTP response as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.4.2.1. 6.3.3.2.3.3 Expected result The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

#### 6.3.3.3 Query EI job (positive case)

##### 6.3.3.3.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test query EI job functionality of A1-EI Consumer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.4.5 The expected outcome is successful validation of the Query EI job request. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-EI service and the Query EI job procedure.

##### 6.3.3.3.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate A1-EI Query EI job procedure. 2) An EI job exists in test simulator and DUT is aware of the eiJobId.

##### 6.3.3.3.3 Test methodology
6.3.3.3.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The test simulator has A1-EI Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP request from the DUT. 6.3.3.3.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Initiate appropriate action in the DUT to initiate Query EI job request for the existing EI job identified by the eiJobId. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request are recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.3.3. b) The HTTP request is a GET operation. c) The eiJobId in the URI match the EI job being queried. d) The HTTP request message body is empty. Step 4. The test simulator generates the appropriate HTTP response as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.4.5.1. 6.3.3.3.3.3 Expected result The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

### 6.3.4 Update EI job test scenarios

#### 6.3.4.1 Update EI job (positive case)

##### 6.3.4.1.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test update EI job functionality of A1-EI Consumer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.4.4. The expected outcome is successful validation of the Update EI job request. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-EI service and the Update EI job procedure.

##### 6.3.4.1.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate A1-EI Update Job procedure. 2) An EI job exists in test simulator and DUT is aware of the eiTypeId and eiJobId 3) The eiTypeId and the JSON schemas of the EI job type used for this test are available in DUT to formulate the Update EI job request and used by the test simulator for validation purpose.

##### 6.3.4.1.3 Test methodology
6.3.4.1.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The test simulator has A1-EI Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP request from the DUT. 6.3.4.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Initiate appropriate action in the DUT to initiate Update EI job request for the existing EI job identified by the eiJobId. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request are recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.3.3. b) The HTTP request is a PUT operation c) The eiJobId in the URI match the EI job to be updated. d) The HTTP request message body contains the EiJobObject of the EI job being updated with the correct eiTypeId included and the EiJobObject conforms to the schema of the EI type. Step 4. The test simulator generates the appropriate HTTP response as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.4.4.1. 6.3.4.1.3.3 Expected result The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.
> NOTE: Presence or validation of optional query parameter for jobStatusNotificationUri is not used to determine
validation on this test

### 6.3.5 Delete EI job test scenarios

#### 6.3.5.1 Delete EI job (positive case)

##### 6.3.5.1.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the delete EI job functionality of A1-EI Consumer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.4.6. The expected outcome is successful validation of the Delete EI job request This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-EI service.

##### 6.3.5.1.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate A1-EI Delete EI job procedure. 2) An EI job exists in test simulator and the eiJobId is known to DUT.

##### 6.3.5.1.3 Test methodology
6.3.5.1.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The test simulator has A1-EI Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP request from the DUT. 6.3.5.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Initiate appropriate action in the DUT to initiate Delete EI job request for the existing EI job identified by the eiJobId. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request are recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.3.3. b) The HTTP request is a DELETE operation. c) The eiJobId in the URI match the EI job being deleted. d) The HTTP request message body is empty. Step 4. The test simulator generates the appropriate HTTP response as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.4.6.1. 6.3.5.1.3.3 Expected result The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

### 6.3.6 Status of EI jobs test scenarios

#### 6.3.6.1 Query EI job status (positive case)

##### 6.3.6.1.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the query EI job status functionality of A1-EI Consumer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.4.7. The expected outcome is successful validation of the Query EI job status request. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-EI service and the Query EI job status procedure.

##### 6.3.6.1.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate A1-EI Query EI job status procedure. 2) An EI job exists in test simulator and DUT is aware of the eiJobId.

##### 6.3.6.1.3 Test methodology
6.3.6.1.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The test simulator has A1-EI Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP request from the DUT. 6.3.6.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Initiate appropriate action in the DUT to initiate Query EI job status request for the existing EI job identified by the eiJobId. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request are recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.3.3. b) The HTTP request is a GET operation. c) The eiJobId in the URI match the EI job being queried. d) The HTTP request message body is empty. Step 4. The test simulator generates the appropriate HTTP response as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.4.7.1. 6.3.6.1.3.3 Expected result The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed and HTTP response "200 OK" is sent.

#### 6.3.6.2 Notify EI job status (positive case)

##### 6.3.6.2.1 Test description and applicability
This purpose of this test case is to test the notify EI job status functionality of A1-EI Consumer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.4.8. The expected outcome is successful EI job status notification request and reception. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-EI service and supports the Notify EI job procedure.

##### 6.3.6.2.2 Test entrance criteria
The test entrance criteria for Create EI job specified in clause 6.3.2.1.2 applies. And in addition: 1) The DUT has the functionality to request and receive EI job status notifications.

##### 6.3.6.2.3 Test methodology
6.3.6.2.3.1 Initial conditions The initial conditions for Create EI job specified in clause 6.3.2.1.3.1 applies. And in addition: 1) The test simulator supports generation of an EiJobStatusObject based on the EI job status schema of the agreed EI type used for this test. 2) The DUT has HTTP server ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the test simulator.
> NOTE: The DUT is expected to provide callback URI (jobStatusNotificationUri) during the Create EI job procedure (see
A1AP [4] clause 5.3.4.43) for which it can relate received EI job status notifications to the eiJobId that was generated when creating the EI job for which EI job status notifications is requested. 6.3.6.2.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Initiate appropriate action in the DUT to initiate Create EI job request for the agreed EI job type including the jobStatusNotificationUri parameter in the EiJobObject. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request are recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a)-e) as defined for Create EI job in clause 6.3.2.1.3.2. f) The jobStatusNotificationUri parameter is included in the EiJobObject. Step 4. The test simulator generates the appropriate HTTP response as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.4.3.1. Step 5. The test simulator initiates the Notify EI job status procedure and sends a HTTP POST request to the provided callback URI (jobStatusNotificationUri) in the DUT with message body containing the EiJobStatusObject conforming to the schema of the used EI type. Step 6. At the test simulator the received HTTP response is recorded.
> NOTE: For the time between Step 4 and Step 5, the test simulator need not simulate any change in job status but can
send status update directly with any content that conforms to the status schema of the used EI type. 6.3.6.2.3.3 Expected result The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met: 1) Step 3 validation has passed 2) Check the HTTP response recorded in step 6 of procedure and that the return code is "204 No content".

#### 6.3.6.3 Notify EI job status – schema validation failure (negative case)

##### 6.3.6.3.1 Test description and applicability
This purpose of this test case is to test the notify EI job status functionality of A1-EI Consumer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.4.8. The expected outcome is failure due to schema validation failure. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-EI service and supports the Notify EI job status procedure.

##### 6.3.6.3.2 Test entrance criteria
The test entrance criteria in clause 6.3.6.2.2 applies.

##### 6.3.6.3.3 Test methodology
6.3.6.3.3.1 Initial conditions The initial conditions in clause 6.3.6.2.3.1 applies. 6.3.6.3.3.2 Procedure Steps 1-6 of clause 6.3.6.2.3.2 applies with the following modification: In Step 5: A spelling mistake should be introduced in the EiJobStatusObject for schema validation error in DUT. 6.3.6.3.3.3 Expected result The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met: 1) Step 3 validation has passed 2) Check the HTTP response recorded in step 6 of procedure and that the return code is "400 Bad request".

#### 6.3.6.4 Notify EI job status – callback URI not supported (negative case)

##### 6.3.6.4.1 Test description and applicability
This purpose of this test case is to test the notify EI job status functionality of A1-EI Consumer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.4.8. The expected outcome is failure due to invalid callback URI. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-EI service and supports the Notify EI job status procedure.

##### 6.3.6.4.2 Test entrance criteria
The test entrance criteria in clause 6.3.6.2.2 applies.

##### 6.3.6.4.3 Test methodology
6.3.6.4.3.1 Initial conditions The initial conditions in clause 6.3.6.2.3.1 applies. 6.3.6.4.3.2 Procedure Steps 1-6 of clause 6.3.6.2.3.2 applies with the following modification: In Step 5. A spelling mistake should be introduced in the used callback URI making it different from the provided jobStatusNotificationUri and not identical to any callback URI supported in the DUT. 6.3.6.4.3.3 Expected result The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met: 1) Step 3 validation has passed 2) Check the HTTP response recorded in step 6 of procedure and that the return code is "400 Bad request".

### 6.3.7 Deliver EI job result test scenarios

#### 6.3.7.1 Deliver EI job result (positive case)

##### 6.3.7.1.1 Test description and applicability
This purpose of this test case is to test the deliver EI job result functionality of A1-EI Consumer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.5.2. The expected outcome is successful EI job result request and reception. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-EI service.

##### 6.3.7.1.2 Test entrance criteria
The test entrance criteria for Create EI job specified in clause 6.3.2.1.2 applies.
> NOTE: No specific functionality is needed in DUT to request EI job results as it is covered by Create EI job procedure.

##### 6.3.7.1.3 Test methodology
6.3.7.1.3.1 Initial conditions The initial conditions for Create EI job specified in clause 6.3.2.1.3.1 applies. And in addition: 1) The test simulator supports generation of an EiJobResultObject based on the EI job result schema of the agreed EI type used for this test. 2) The DUT has HTTP server ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the test simulator.
> NOTE: The DUT is expected to provide callback URI (jobResultUri) during the Create EI job procedure (see A1AP [4]
clause 5.3.4.3) for which it can relate received EI job results to the eiJobId that was generated when creating the EI job for which EI job result is delivered. 6.3.7.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Initiate appropriate action in the DUT to initiate Create EI job request for the agreed EI job type including the jobResultUri parameter in the EiJobObject. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request are recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a)-e) as defined for Create EI job in clause 6.3.2.1.3.2. f) The jobResultUri parameter is included in the EiJobObject. Step 4. The test simulator generates the appropriate HTTP response as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.4.3.1. Step 5. The test simulator initiates the Deliver EI job result procedure and sends a HTTP POST request to the provided callback URI (jobResultUri) in the DUT with message body containing the EiJobResultObject conforming to the schema of the used EI type. Step 6. At the test simulator the received HTTP response is recorded.
> NOTE: For the time between Step 4 and Step 5, the test simulator need not follow the timing attributes in the
EiJobObject if such are defined for the used EI type but can send the job delivery directly with any content that conforms to the result schema of the used EI type. 6.3.7.1.3.3 Expected result The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met: 1) Step 3 validation has passed 2) Check the HTTP response recorded in step 6 of procedure and that the return code is "204 No content".

#### 6.3.7.2 Deliver EI job result – schema validation failure (negative case)

##### 6.3.7.2.1 Test description and applicability
This purpose of this test case is to test the deliver EI job result functionality of A1-EI Consumer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.5.2. The expected outcome is failure due to schema validation failure. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-EI service

##### 6.3.7.2.2 Test entrance criteria
The test entrance criteria in clause 6.3.7.1.2 applies.

##### 6.3.7.2.3 Test methodology
6.3.7.2.3.1 Initial conditions The initial conditions in clause 6.3.7.1.3.1 applies. 6.3.7.2.3.2 Procedure Steps 1-6 of clause 6.3.7.1.3.2 applies with the following modification: In Step 5: A spelling mistake should be introduced in the EiJobResultObject for schema validation error in DUT. 6.3.7.2.3.3 Expected result The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met: 1) Step 3 validation has passed 2) Check the HTTP response recorded in step 6 of procedure and that the return code is "400 Bad request".

#### 6.3.7.3 Deliver EI job result – callback URI not supported (negative case)

##### 6.3.7.3.1 Test description and applicability
This purpose of this test case is to test the deliver EI job result functionality of A1-EI Consumer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.5.2. The expected outcome is failure due to invalid callback URI. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUT claims to support A1-EI service.

##### 6.3.7.3.2 Test entrance criteria
The test entrance criteria in clause 6.3.7.1.2 applies.

##### 6.3.7.3.3 Test methodology
6.3.7.3.3.1 Initial conditions The initial conditions in clause 6.3.7.1.3.1 applies. 6.3.7.3.3.2 Procedure Steps 1-6 of clause 6.3.7.1.3.2 applies with the following modification: In Step 5. A spelling mistake should be introduced in the used callback URI making it different from the provided jobResultUri and not identical to any callback URI supported in the DUT. 6.3.7.3.3.3 Expected result The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met: 1) Step 3 validation has passed 2) Check the HTTP response recorded in step 6 of procedure and that the return code is "400 Bad request".

# 7 Test cases for interoperability between Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC

## 7.1 General

### 7.1.1 System under test requirements
The system under test is a Non-RT RIC and a Near-RT RIC that acts as DUTs referred to Non-RTR-DUT and Near-RTR-DUT in the test scenarios of this clause. The requirements on the DUTs for these tests are that they can handle the procedures defined for a Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC and the purpose of the test scenarios is to validate that Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC are interoperable. The Non-RT RIC and the Near-RT RIC can be functions that are under development, or they can be finalised commercial products, that have passed the conformance test scenarios defined in clauses 5 and 6. In addition to the basic conformance requirements, and the DUT requirements in clause 5 and 6, the following is required for Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC when they act as DUTs in this test system:
- It shall be possible for the DUTs to initiate the A1 procedures in a controlled manner and to generate relevant
response for each test case. For this some additional functionality is required, this can be implemented as installable test applications or in other vendor specific way.
- To enable validation of A1 procedure messages captured between the DUTs an ability to disable encryption is
required.
- A1 policy types and EI types used in test scenarios are agreed and configured in the DUTs in advance.
> NOTE: The present document does not require usage of any specific policy type or EI type since specific behaviour is
not validated, only the application protocol aspects and procedures are validated for interoperability testing of the A1 services.

### 7.1.2 Test tools and simulators capabilities

# A TAP interface and protocol analyser is required for recording and validating A1 procedure message sequences and contents
and issuing of verdicts related to the procedures in the test cases and thereby enabling determination of the DUTs level of interoperability. SMO framework with O1 functionality may be required to bring the DUTs into operational state. Depending on how the functionality in the DUTs required for the test scenarios is implemented, there may be a need to connect Near-RTR-DUT to E2 Nodes connected to RUs, UEs and Core Network. These can be replaced by appropriate simulators.
> NOTE: In the future, when then open APIs for rApps and xApps are fully specified, test apps can be provided as part of
the test tools and used to trigger the request messages and generate the content of the response messages for the test scenarios.

## 7.2 Interoperability test cases for A1-P

### 7.2.1 Query policy type test scenarios

#### 7.2.1.1 Query all policy type identifiers (positive case)

##### 7.2.1.1.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the query policy types functionality of A1-P Consumer and A1-P Producer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.2.3.2. The expected outcome is successful Query all policy type identifiers operation. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUTs claim to support A1-P service and the Query all policy type identifiers procedure.

##### 7.2.1.1.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The Non-RTR-DUT has functionality to initiate A1-P Query all policy type identifiers procedure. 2) A set of policy types (at least two) are supported in the Near-RTR-DUT. 3) The supported policyTypeIds are known to the “protocol analyser”.

##### 7.2.1.1.3 Test methodology
7.2.1.1.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The Near-RTR-DUT has A1-P Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the Non-RTR- DUT. 2) The Near-RTR-DUT supports the three different test configurations listed below to test complete functionality: a) Near-RTR-DUT has no policy types available. b) Near-RTR-DUT has a single policy type available. c) Near-RTR-DUT has two or more policy types available. 7.2.1.1.3.2 Procedure Step 0. Enable protocol analyser to capture and decode the A1 signalling between the DUTs via the tap/TAP interface. Step 1. Initiate appropriate action in the Non-RTR-DUT to initiate Query all policy type identifiers request. Step 2. At the protocol analyser the contents of the HTTP request and the HTTP response are recorded. Step 3. Repeat Step 1 and Step 2 for the three test configurations. 7.2.1.1.3.3 Expected result Check the HTTP messages recorded in Step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met for all three test configurations listed in clause 7.2.1.1.3.1: For the request message a) The URI conforms to the format specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.2.3. b) The HTTP request is a GET operation. c) The HTTP request message body is empty. For the response message 1) The return code is "200 OK". 2) Response message body is validated depending on the three test configurations used a) If the Near-RTR-DUT has no policy types available, message body is an empty array b) If the Near-RTR-DUT has single policy type available, message body contains an array with one policyTypeId. c) If the Near-RTR-DUT has two or more policy types available, message body contains an array with all the policyTypeIds available in Near-RTR-DUT.

#### 7.2.1.2 Query single policy type (positive)

##### 7.2.1.2.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the query policy types functionality of A1-P Consumer and A1-P Producer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.2.3.3. The expected outcome is successful Query single policy type operation. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUTs claim to support A1-P service and the Query single policy type procedure.

##### 7.2.1.2.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The Non-RTR-DUT has functionality to initiate A1-P Query single policy procedure. 2) A known set of policy types are supported in the Near-RTR-DUT. 3) The supported policyTypeIds are known to the protocol analyser.

##### 7.2.1.2.3 Test methodology
7.2.1.2.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The Near-RTR-DUT has A1-P Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the Non-RTR- DUT. 7.2.1.2.3.2 Procedure Step 0. Enable protocol analyser to capture and decode the A1 signalling between the DUTs via the tap interface. Step 1. Initiate appropriate action in the Non-RTR-DUT to initiate Query single policy request with a known policyTypeId. Step 2. At the protocol analyser the contents of the HTTP request and the HTTP response are recorded. 7.2.1.2.3.3 Expected result Check the HTTP messages recorded in Step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met: For the request message a) The URI conforms to the format specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.2.3. b) The HTTP request is a GET operation. c) The policyTypeId in the URI match the policy type being queried. d) The HTTP request message body is empty. For the response message 1) The return code is "200 OK". 2) Response message body content contains a PolicyTypeObject representing the read policy type.

### 7.2.2 Create policy test scenario

#### 7.2.2.1 Create single policy (positive)

##### 7.2.2.1.1 Test description and applicability
This purpose of this test case is to test the create policy functionality of A1-P Consumer and A1-P Producer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.2.4.3. The expected outcome is successful creation of the policy. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUTs claim to support A1-P service.

##### 7.2.2.1.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The Non-RTR-DUT has functionality to initiate A1-P Create single policy procedure. 2) The DUTs have agreed on a policy type to use for this test. 3) The policyTypeId and the JSON schemas of the policy type used for this test are available and used in Non-RTR- DUT to formulate the Create single policy request, and in Near-RTR-DUT to validate and handle the request. 4) The agreed policyTypeId is known to the protocol analyser.

##### 7.2.2.1.3 Test methodology
7.2.2.1.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The Near-RTR-DUT has A1-P Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the Non-RTR- DUT. 2) No policy exists in the Near-RTR-DUT for the policy type with the same policyId that will be used by the Non-RTR- DUT. 7.2.2.1.3.2 Procedure Step 0. Enable protocol analyser to capture and decode the A1 signalling between the DUTs via the tap interface. Step 1. Initiate appropriate action in the Non-RTR-DUT to initiate Create single policy request for the agreed policy type. Step 2. At the protocol analyser the contents of the HTTP request and the HTTP response are recorded. 7.2.2.1.3.3 Expected result Check the HTTP messages recorded in Step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met: For the request message a) The URI conforms to the format specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.2.3. b) The HTTP request is a PUT operation. c) The policyTypeId is as agreed to be used. d) The HTTP request message body contains the PolicyObject of the policy to be created and the PolicyObject conforms to the schema.
> NOTE: Presence or validation of optional query parameter for notificationDestination is not used to determine validation
on this test. For the response message 1) The return code is "201 Created". 2) Response message body content contains a PolicyObject representing the created policy. 3) The location header is present and carries the URI of the new policy.

### 7.2.3 Query policy test scenarios

#### 7.2.3.1 Query all policy identifiers

##### 7.2.3.1.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the query all policies functionality of A1-P Consumer and A1-P Producer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.2.4.2. The expected outcome is successful retrieval of policy identifiers. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUTs claim to support A1-P service and the Query all policy identifiers procedure.

##### 7.2.3.1.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The Non-RTR-DUT has functionality to initiate A1-P Query all policy identifiers procedure. 2) The DUTs have agreed on a policy type to use for this test. 3) A set of policies (at least two) for the agreed policy type exist in the Near-RTR-DUT. 4) The agreed policyTypeId is known to the protocol analyser.

##### 7.2.3.1.3 Test methodology
7.2.3.1.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The Near-RTR-DUT has A1-P Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the Non-RTR- DUT. 2) The Near-RTR-DUT is supports three different test configurations listed below to test complete functionality: a) Near-RTR-DUT has no policies available for the agreed policy type. b) Near-RTR-DUT has a single policy available for the agreed policy type. c) Near-RTR-DUT has two or more policies available for the agreed policy type. 7.2.3.1.3.2 Procedure Step 0. Enable protocol analyser to capture and decode the A1 signalling between the DUTs via the tap interface. Step 1. Initiate appropriate action in the Non-RTR-DUT to initiate Query all policy identifiers request. Step 2. At the protocol analyser the contents of the HTTP request and the HTTP response are recorded. Step 3. Repeat Step 1 and Step 2 for the three test configurations. 7.2.3.1.3.3 Expected result Check the HTTP messages recorded in Step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met for all three test configurations listed in clause 7.2.3.1.3.1: For the request messages a) The URI conforms to the format specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.2.3. b) The HTTP request is a GET operation. c) The message body is empty. For the response messages 1) The return code is "200 OK". 2) Response message body is validated depending on the three test configurations used: a) If the Near-RTR-DUT has no policies available, message body is an empty array. b) If the Near-RTR-DUT has single policy available, message body contains an array with one policyId available with the given policy type. c) If the Near-RTR-DUT has two or more policies available, message body contains an array of policyIds of all the available policies of the given policy type.

#### 7.2.3.2 Query single policy

##### 7.2.3.2.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the query single policy functionality of A1-P Consumer and A1-P Producer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.2.4.5. The expected outcome is successful retrieval of policy object. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUTs claim to support A1-P service and the Query single policy procedure.

##### 7.2.3.2.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The Non-RTR-DUT has functionality to initiate A1-P Query single policy procedure. 2) A policy exists in the Near-RTR-DUT and the policyTypeId and policyId are known to Non-RTR-DUT. 3) The policyTypeId and policyId are known to the protocol analyser.

##### 7.2.3.2.3 Test methodology
7.2.3.2.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The Near-RTR-DUT has A1-P Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the Non-RTR- DUT. 7.2.3.2.3.2 Procedure Step 0. Enable protocol analyser to capture and decode the A1 signalling between the DUTs via the tap interface. Step 1. Initiate appropriate action in the Non-RTR-DUT to initiate Query single policy request. Step 2. At the protocol analyser the contents of the HTTP request and the HTTP response are recorded. 7.2.3.2.3.3 Expected result Check the HTTP messages recorded in Step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met: For the request message a) The URI conforms to the format specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.2.3. b) The HTTP request is a GET operation. c) The policyTypeId and policyId in the URI match the policy being queried. d) The message body is empty. For the response messages 1) The return code is "200 OK". 2) Response message body content contains a PolicyObject representing the read policy.

#### 7.2.3.3 Query policy status (positive case)

##### 7.2.3.3.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the query policy status functionality of A1-P Consumer and A1-P Producer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.2.4.7. The expected outcome is successful retrieval of policy status object. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUTs claim to support A1-P service and the Query policy status procedure.

##### 7.2.3.3.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The Non-RTR-DUT has functionality to initiate A1-P Query policy status procedure. 2) A policy exists in the Near-RTR-DUT and the policyTypeId and policyId are known to the Non-RTR-DUT. 3) The policyTypeId and policyId are known to the protocol analyser.

##### 7.2.3.3.3 Test methodology
7.2.3.3.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The Near-RTR-DUT has A1-P Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the Non-RTR- DUT. 7.2.3.3.3.2 Procedure Step 0. Enable protocol analyser to capture and decode the A1 signalling between the DUTs via the tap interface. Step 1. Initiate appropriate action in the Non-RTR-DUT to initiate Query policy status request. Step 2. At the protocol analyser the contents of the HTTP request and the HTTP response are recorded. 7.2.3.3.3.3 Expected result Check the HTTP messages recorded in Step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met: For the request message a) The URI conforms to the format specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.2.3. b) The HTTP request is a GET operation. c) The policyTypeId and policyId in the URI match the policy being queried. d) The message body is empty. For the response messages 1) The return code is "200 OK". 2) Response message body content contains a PolicyStatusObject representing the status of the policy.

### 7.2.4 Update policy test scenarios

#### 7.2.4.1 Update single policy (positive case)

##### 7.2.4.1.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the update policy functionality of A1-P Consumer and A1-P Producer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.2.4.4. The expected outcome is successful update of the policy. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUTs claim to support A1-P service and the Update single policy procedure.

##### 7.2.4.1.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The Non-RTR-DUT has functionality to initiate A1-P Update single policy procedure. 2) A policy exists in the Near-RTR-DUT and the policyTypeId and policyId are known to the Non-RTR-DUT. 3) The policyTypeId and the JSON schemas of the policy type used for this test are available and used in Non-RTR- DUT to formulate the Update single policy request, and in Near-RTR-DUT to validate and handle the request. 4) The policyTypeId and the policyId are known to the protocol analyser.

##### 7.2.4.1.3 Test methodology
7.2.4.1.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The Near-RTR-DUT has A1-P Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the Non-RTR- DUT. 7.2.4.1.3.2 Procedure Step 0. Enable protocol analyser to capture and decode the A1 signalling between the DUTs via the tap interface. Step 1. Initiate appropriate action in the Non-RTR-DUT to initiate Update single policy request. Step 2. At the protocol analyser the contents of the HTTP request and the HTTP response are recorded. 7.2.4.1.3.3 Expected result Check the HTTP messages recorded in Step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met: For the request messages a) The URI conforms to the format specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.2.3. b) The HTTP request is a PUT operation. c) The policyTypeId and policyId in the URI match the policy being updated. d) The HTTP request message body contains the PolicyObject of the policy to be updated and the PolicyObject conforms to the schema of the policy type. For the response messages 1) The return code is "200 OK". 2) Response message body content is verified to match the PolicyObject sent in Step 1.

### 7.2.5 Delete policy test scenarios

#### 7.2.5.1 Delete single policy (positive case)

##### 7.2.5.1.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the delete policy functionality of A1-P Consumer and A1-P Producer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.2.4.6. The expected outcome is successful deletion of the policy. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUTs claim to support A1-P service.

##### 7.2.5.1.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The Non-RTR-DUT has functionality to initiate A1-P Delete single policy procedure. 2) A policy exists in the Near-RTR-DUT and the policyTypeId and policyId are known to the Non-RTR-DUT. 3) The policyTypeId and the policyId are known to the protocol analyser.

##### 7.2.5.1.3 Test methodology
7.2.5.1.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The Near-RTR-DUT has A1-P Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the Non-RTR- DUT. 7.2.5.1.3.2 Procedure Step 0. Enable protocol analyser to capture and decode the A1 signalling between the DUTs via the tap interface. Step 1. Initiate appropriate action in the Non-RTR-DUT to initiate Delete single policy request. Step 2. At the protocol analyser the contents of the HTTP request and the HTTP response are recorded. 7.2.5.1.3.3 Expected result Check the HTTP messages recorded in Step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met: For the request messages a) The URI conforms to the format specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.2.3. b) The HTTP request is a DELETE operation. c) The policyTypeId and policyId in the URI match the policy being deleted. d) The message body is empty. For the response messages 1) The return code is "204 No content". 2) Response message body is empty.

### 7.2.6 Notify policy status test scenarios

#### 7.2.6.1 Notify policy status (positive case)

##### 7.2.6.1.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the policy status notification functionality of A1-P Consumer and A1-P Producer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.2.4.8. The expected outcome is successful policy status request and reception. This test case is optional if the DUTs claim to support A1-P service and supports the Notify policy status procedure.

##### 7.2.6.1.2 Test entrance criteria
The test entrance criteria for Create single policy specified in clause 7.2.2.1.2 applies. And in addition: 1) Non-RTR-DUT has the functionality to request and receive policy status notifications. 2) Near-RTR-DUT has the functionality to provide policy status notifications. 3) Non-RTR-DUT and Near-RTR-DUT have agreed on a how to requests and trigger the policy status notification based on supported policy types and functionality in the Near-RTR-DUT.

##### 7.2.6.1.3 Test methodology
7.2.6.1.3.1 Initial conditions The initial conditions for Create single policy specified in clause 7.2.2.1.3.1 applies. And in addition: 1) The Near-RTR-DUT supports generation of a PolicyStatusObject based on the policy status schema of the agreed policy type used for this test. 2) The Non-RTR-DUT has HTTP server ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the Near-RTR-DUT for policy status notifications.
> NOTE: The Non-RTR-DUT is expected to provide callback URI (notificationDestination) during the Create single
policy procedure (see A1AP [4] clause 5.2.4.3) for which it can relate received policy status notifications to the policyId that was generated when creating the policy for which policy status notifications is requested. 7.2.6.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Same as for Create single policy, see clause 7.2.2.1.3.2, including the notificationDestination query parameter. Step 2. At the protocol analyser the contents of the HTTP request and the HTTP response are recorded. Step 3. Initiate appropriate action in the Near-RTR-DUT to initiate Notify policy status request for the created policy. Step 4. At the protocol analyser the contents of the HTTP request and the HTTP response are recorded. 7.2.6.1.3.3 Expected result Check the HTTP messages recorded in Step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met for the Create policy operation: For the request message a)-e) As defined for Create single policy in clause 7.2.2.1.3.3. f) The notificationDestination query parameter is included. For the response message 1) The return code is "201 Created". Check the HTTP messages recorded in Step 4 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met for the Notify policy status operation: For the request message a) The URI is the notificationDestination provided in the Create policy operation. b) The HTTP request is a POST operation. c) The HTTP request message body contains the PolicyStatusObject of the policy for which status is updated and the PolicyStatusObject conforms to the status schema. For the response message 1) The return code is "204 No content".

## 7.3 Interoperability test cases for A1-EI

### 7.3.1 Query EI types test scenarios

#### 7.3.1.1 Query EI type identifiers (positive case)

##### 7.3.1.1.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test query EI type identifiers functionality of A1-EI Producer and A1-EI Consumer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.3.2. The expected outcome is successful retrieval of EI type identifiers. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUTs claim to support A1-EI service and Query EI type identifiers procedure.

##### 7.3.1.1.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The Near-RTR-DUT has functionality to initiate A1-EI Query EI type identifiers procedure. 2) The Non-RTR-DUT supports a known set of EI types (two or more) used for this test. 3) The supported eiTypeIds are known to the protocol analyser

##### 7.3.1.1.3 Test methodology
7.3.1.1.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The Non-RTR-DUT has A1-EI Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the Near-RTR- DUT. 2) The Non-RTR-DUT supports the three different test configurations listed below to test complete functionality: a) Non-RTR-DUT has no EI type available. b) Non-RTR-DUT has a single EI type available. c) Non-RTR-DUT has two or more EI types available. 7.3.1.1.3.2 Procedure Step 0. Enable protocol analyser to capture and decode the A1 signalling between the DUTs via the tap interface. Step 1. Initiate appropriate action in the Near-RTR-DUT to initiate Query EI type identifiers request. Step 2. At the protocol analyser the contents of the HTTP request and the HTTP response are recorded. Step 3. Repeat Step 1 and Step 2 for the three test configurations. 7.3.1.1.3.3 Expected result The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met for all three test configurations listed in clause 7.3.1.1.3.1: For the request message a) The URI conforms to the format specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.2.3. b) The HTTP request is a GET operation. c) The HTTP request message body is empty. For the response message 1) The return code is "200 OK". 2) Response message body is validated depending on the test configuration used: a) If the Non-RTR-DUT has no EI type available, message body is an empty array. b) If the Non-RTR-DUT has single EI type available, message body contains an array with one eiTypeId. c) If the Non-RTR-DUT has two or more EI jobs available, message body contains an array of all the eiTypeIds available in DUT.

#### 7.3.1.2 Query EI type (positive case)

##### 7.3.1.2.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test query EI type functionality of A1-EI Producer and A1-EI Consumer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.3.3. The expected outcome is successful retrieval of EI type object. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUTs claim to support A1-EI service and the Query EI type procedure.

##### 7.3.1.2.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The Near-RTR-DUT has the functionality to initiate A1-EI Query EI type procedure. 2) A known set of EI types are supported in the Non-RTR-DUT. 3) The supported eiTypeIds are known to the protocol analyser.

##### 7.3.1.2.3 Test methodology
7.3.1.2.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The Non-RTR-DUT has A1-EI Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the Near-RTR- DUT. 7.3.1.2.3.2 Procedure Step 0. Enable protocol analyser to capture and decode the A1 signalling between the DUTs via the tap interface. Step 1. Initiate appropriate action in the Near-RTR-DUT to initiate Query EI type request with a known eiTypeId. Step 2. At the protocol analyser the contents of the HTTP request and the HTTP response are recorded. 7.3.1.2.3.3 Expected result Check the HTTP messages recorded in Step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met: For the request message a) The URI conforms to the format specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.3.3. b) The HTTP request is a GET operation. c) The eiTypeId in the URI match the EI type being queried. d) The HTTP request message body is empty. For the response message 1) The return code is "200 OK". 2) Response message body content contains an EiTypeObject representing the read EI job.

### 7.3.2 Create EI job test scenario

#### 7.3.2.1 Create EI job (positive case)

##### 7.3.2.1.1 Test description and applicability
This purpose of this test case is to test the create EI job functionality of A1-EI Producer and A1-EI Consumer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.4.3. The expected outcome is successful creation of the EI job. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUTs claim to support A1-EI service.

##### 7.3.2.1.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The Near-RTR-DUT has functionality to initiate A1-EI Create EI job procedure. 2) The DUTs have agreed on an EI type to use for this test. 3) The eiTypeId and the JSON schemas of the EI type used for this test are available and used in Near-RTR-DUT to formulate the Create EI job request, and in Non-RTR-DUT to validate and handle the request. 4) The agreed eiTypeId is known to the protocol analyser.

##### 7.3.2.1.3 Test methodology
7.3.2.1.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The Non-RTR-DUT has A1-EI Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the Near-RTR- DUT. 2) No EI job exists in the Non-RTR-DUT for the EI job type with the same eiJobId that will be used by the Near-RTR- DUT. 7.3.2.1.3.2 Procedure Step 0. Enable protocol analyser to capture and decode the A1 signalling between the DUTs via the tap interface. Step 1. Initiate appropriate action in the Near-RTR-DUT to initiate Create EI job request for the agreed EI job type. Step 2. At the protocol analyser the contents of the HTTP request and the HTTP response are recorded. 7.3.2.1.3.3 Expected result Check the HTTP messages recorded in Step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met: For the request message a) The URI conforms to the format specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.3.3. b) The HTTP request is a PUT operation. c) The eiTypeId is as agreed to be used. d) The HTTP request message body contains the EiJobObject of the EI job to be created and the EiJobObject conforms to the schema. For the response message 1) The return code is "201 Created". 2) Response message body content contains an EiJobObject representing the created EI job. 3) The location header is present and carries the URI of the new EI job.

### 7.3.3 Query EI jobs test scenarios

#### 7.3.3.1 Query EI job identifiers for a single EI type (positive case)

##### 7.3.3.1.1 Test description and applicability
This purpose of this test case is to test query EI job identifiers functionality of A1-EI Producer and A1-EI Consumer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.4.2. The expected outcome is successful retrieval of all EI job identifiers of a given EI type. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUTs claim to support A1-EI service and Query EI job identifiers procedure.

##### 7.3.3.1.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The Near-RTR-DUT has functionality to initiate A1-EI Query EI job identifiers procedure. 2) The DUTs have agreed on an EI type to use for this test. 3) A set of EI jobs (at least two) for the agreed EI type exist in the Non-RT-DUT. 4) The agreed eiTypeId is known to the protocol analyser.

##### 7.3.3.1.3 Test methodology
7.3.3.1.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The Non-RTR-DUT has A1-EI Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the Near-RTR- DUT. 2) The Non-RTR-DUT supports three different test configurations listed below to test complete functionality: a) Non-RTR-DUT has no EI jobs available for the agreed EI type. b) Non-RTR-DUT has an EI job available for the agreed EI type. c) Non-RTR-DUT has two or more EI jobs available for the agreed EI type. 7.3.3.1.3.2 Procedure Step 0. Enable protocol analyser to capture and decode the A1 signalling between the DUTs via the tap interface. Step 1. Initiate appropriate action in the Near-RTR-DUT to initiate Query all EI job identifiers. Step 2. At the protocol analyser the contents of the HTTP request and the HTTP response are recorded. Step 3. Repeat Step 1 and Step 2 for the three test configurations. 7.3.3.1.3.3 Expected result Check the HTTP messages recorded in Step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met for all three test configurations listed in clause 7.3.3.1.3.1: For the request messages a) The URI conforms to the format specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.3.3 with the agreed eiTypeId as query parameter b) The HTTP request is a GET operation. c) The message body is empty. d) A query parameter with an eiTypeId is included. For the response messages 1) The return code is "200 OK". 2) Response message body is validated depending on the three test configurations used: a) If the Non-RTR-DUT has no EI job available, message body is an empty array. b) If the Non-RTR-DUT has single EI job available, message body contains an array with one eiJobId available with the given EI type. c) If the Non-RTR-DUT has two or more EI jobs available, message body contains an array of eiJobIds of all the available EI jobs of the given EI type.

#### 7.3.3.2 Query EI job identifiers for all EI types (positive case)

##### 7.3.3.2.1 Test description and applicability
This purpose of this test case is to test query EI job identifiers functionality of A1-EI Producer and A1-EI Consumer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.4.2. The expected outcome is successful retrieval of all EI job identifiers of all EI types. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUTs claim to support A1-EI service and Query EI job identifiers procedure.

##### 7.3.3.2.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The Near-RTR-DUT has functionality to initiate A1-EI Query EI job identifiers procedure. 2) The DUTs supports a known set of EI types (two or more) used for this test. 3) The agreed eiTypeIds are known to the protocol analyser.

##### 7.3.3.2.3 Test methodology
7.3.3.2.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The Non-RTR-DUT has A1-EI Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the Near-RTR- DUT 2) The Non-RTR-DUT supports the two different test configurations listed below to test complete functionality: a) Non-RTR-DUT has no EI job available for any of the EI types supported. b) Non-RTR-DUT has one or more EI jobs available for each EI type supported. 7.3.3.2.3.2 Procedure Step 0. Enable protocol analyser to capture and decode the A1 signalling between the DUTs via the tap interface. Step 1. Initiate appropriate action in the Near-RTR-DUT to initiate Query EI job identifiers request. Step 2. At the protocol analyser the contents of the HTTP request and the HTTP response are recorded. 7.3.3.2.3.3 Expected result Check the HTTP messages recorded in Step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met for all two test configurations listed in clause 7.3.3.2.3.1: For the request messages a) The URI conforms to the format specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.3.3 without eiTypeId included as query parameter b) The HTTP request is a GET operation. c) No query parameter with an eiTypeId is included. d) The message body is empty. For the response messages 1) The return code is "200 OK". 2) Response message body is validated depending on the two test configurations used: a) If the Non-RTR-DUT has no EI job available, message body is an empty array. b) If the Non-RTR-DUT has one or more EI jobs available, message body contains an array of eiJobIds of all the available EI jobs of all EI types.

#### 7.3.3.3 Query EI job (positive case)

##### 7.3.3.3.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test query EI job functionality of A1-EI Producer and A1-EI Consumer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.4.5. The expected outcome is successful retrieval of EI job for the given eiJobId. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUTs claim to support A1-EI service and the Query EI job procedure.

##### 7.3.3.3.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The Near-RTR-DUT has functionality to initiate A1-EI Query EI job procedure. 2) An EI job exists in the Non-RTR-DUT and the eiJobId is known to the Near-RTR-DUT. 3) The eiJobId is known to the protocol analyser.

##### 7.3.3.3.3 Test methodology
7.3.3.3.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The Non-RTR-DUT has A1-EI Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the Near-RTR- DUT. 7.3.3.3.3.2 Procedure Step 0. Enable protocol analyser to capture and decode the A1 signalling between the DUTs via the tap interface. Step 1. Initiate appropriate action in the Near-RTR-DUT to initiate Query EI job request. Step 2. At the protocol analyser the contents of the HTTP request and the HTTP response are recorded. 7.3.3.3.3.3 Expected result Check the HTTP messages recorded in Step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.3.3. b) The HTTP request is a GET operation. c) The eiJobId in the URI match the EI job being queried. d) The HTTP request message body is empty. For the response messages 1) The return code is “200 OK”. 2) Response message body content contains an EiJobObject representing the EI job.

### 7.3.4 Update EI job test scenarios

#### 7.3.4.1 Update EI job (positive case)

##### 7.3.4.1.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test update EI job functionality of A1-EI Producer and A1-EI Consumer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.4.4. The expected outcome is successful update of the EI job. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUTs claim to support A1-EI service and Update EI job procedure.

##### 7.3.4.1.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The Non-RTR-DUT has functionality to initiate A1-EI Update EI job procedure. 2) An EI job exists in the Non-RTR-DUT and the eiTypeID and eiJobID are known to the Near-RTR-DUT. 3) The eiTypeID and the JSON schemas of the EI type used for this test are available and used in Near-RTR-DUT to formulate the Update EI job request, and in Non-RTR-DUT to validate and handle the request. 4) The eiTypeID and the eiTypeID are known to the protocol analyser.

##### 7.3.4.1.3 Test methodology
7.3.4.1.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The Non-RTR-DUT has A1-EI Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the Near-RTR- DUT. 7.3.4.1.3.2 Procedure Step 0. Enable protocol analyser to capture and decode the A1 signalling between the DUTs via the tap interface. Step 1. Initiate appropriate action in the Near-RTR-DUT to initiate Update EI job request. Step 2. At the protocol analyser the contents of the HTTP request and the HTTP response are recorded. 7.3.4.1.3.3 Expected result Check the HTTP messages recorded in Step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met: For the request messages a) The URI conforms to the format specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.3.3. b) The HTTP request is a PUT operation. c) The eiJobId in the URI match the EI job to be updated. d) The HTTP request message body contains the EiJobObject of the EI job being updated and the EiJobObject conforms to the schema of the EI type. For the response messages 1) The return code is "200 OK". 2) Response message body content is verified to match the EiJobObject sent in Step 1.

### 7.3.5 Delete EI job test scenarios

#### 7.3.5.1 Delete EI job (positive case)

##### 7.3.5.1.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the delete EI job functionality of A1-EI Producer and A1-EI Consumer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.4.6. The expected outcome is successful validation of the Delete EI job request This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUTs claim to support A1-EI service.

##### 7.3.5.1.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The Non-RTR-DUT has functionality to initiate A1-EI Delete EI job procedure. 2) An EI job exists in the Non-RTR-DUT and the eiJobId is known to the Near-RTR-DUT. 3) The eiJobId is known to the protocol analyser.

##### 7.3.5.1.3 Test methodology
7.3.5.1.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The Non-RTR-DUT has A1-EI Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the Near-RTR- DUT. 7.3.5.1.3.2 Procedure Step 0. Enable protocol analyser to capture and decode the A1 signalling between the DUTs via the tap interface. Step 1. Initiate appropriate action in the Near-RTR-DUT to initiate Delete EI job request. Step 2. At the protocol analyser the contents of the HTTP request and the HTTP response are recorded. 7.3.5.1.3.3 Expected result Check the HTTP messages recorded in Step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met: For the request messages a) The URI conforms to the format specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.3.3. b) The HTTP request is a DELETE operation. c) The eiJobId in the URI match the EI job being deleted. d) The message body is empty. For the response messages 1) The return code is "204 No content". 2) Response message body is empty.

### 7.3.6 Status of EI jobs test scenarios

#### 7.3.6.1 Query EI job status (positive case)

##### 7.3.6.1.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the query EI job status functionality of A1-EI Producer and A1-EI Consumer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.4.7. The expected outcome is successful retrieval of EI job status object. This test case is conditionally mandatory if the DUTs claim to support A1-EI service and the Query EI job status procedure.

##### 7.3.6.1.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The Near-RTR-DUT has functionality to initiate Query EI job status procedure. 2) An EI job exists in the Non-RTR-DUT and the eiJobId is known to the Near-RTR-DUT. 3) The agreed eiTypeId is known to the protocol analyser.

##### 7.3.6.1.3 Test methodology
7.3.6.1.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The Non-RTR-DUT has A1-EI Producer service ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the Near-RTR- DUT. 7.3.6.1.3.2 Procedure Step 0. Enable protocol analyser to capture and decode the A1 signalling between the DUTs via the tap interface. Step 1. Initiate appropriate action in the Near-RTR-DUT to initiate Query EI job status request. Step 2. At the protocol analyser the contents of the HTTP request and the HTTP response are recorded. 7.3.6.1.3.3 Expected result Check the HTTP messages recorded in Step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met For the request messages a) The URI conforms to the format specified in A1AP [4] clause 6.3.3. b) The HTTP request is a GET operation. c) The eiJobId in the URI match the EI job being queried. d) The HTTP request message body is empty. For the response messages 1) The return code is “200 OK”. 2) Response message body content contains an EiJobStatusObject representing the status of the EI job.

#### 7.3.6.2 Notify EI job status (positive case)

##### 7.3.6.2.1 Test description and applicability
This purpose of this test case is to test the notify EI job status functionality of A1-EI Producer and AI-EI Consumer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.4.8. The expected outcome is successful request and delivery of EI job status notification. This test case is optional if the DUTs claim to support A1-EI service and supports the Notify EI job status procedure.

##### 7.3.6.2.2 Test entrance criteria
The test entrance criteria for Create EI job specified in clause 7.3.2.1.2 applies. And in addition: 1) Near-RTR-DUT has the functionality to request and receive EI job status notification 2) Non-RTR-DUT has the functionality to provide EI job status notification. 3) Non-RTR-DUT and Near-RTR-DUT have agreed on a how to request and trigger the EI job status notification based on supported EI types and functionality in the Non-RTR-DUT.

##### 7.3.6.2.3 Test methodology
7.3.6.2.3.1 Initial conditions The initial conditions for Create EI job specified in clause 7.3.2.1.3.1 applies. And in addition: 1) The Near-RTR-DUT supports generation of an EiJobStatusObject based on the EI job status schema of the agreed EI type used for this test. 2) The Near-RTR-DUT has HTTP server ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the Non-RTR-DUT for EI job status notifications.
> NOTE: The Near-RTR-DUT is expected to provide callback URI (jobStatusNotificationUri) during the Create EI job
procedure (see A1AP [4] clause 5.3.4.3) for which it can relate received EI job status notifications to the eiJobId that was generated when creating the EI job for which EI job status notifications is requested. 7.3.6.2.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Same as for Create EI job, see clause 7.3.2.1.3.2, including the jobStatusNotificationUri parameter in EiJobObject. Step 2. At the protocol analyser the contents of the HTTP request and the HTTP response are recorded. Step 3. Initiate appropriate action in the Non-RTR-DUT to initiate EI job status notification for the created EI job. Step 4. At the protocol analyser the contents of the HTTP request and the HTTP response are recorded. 7.3.6.2.3.3 Expected result Check the HTTP messages recorded in Step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met for the Create EI job operation: For the request message a)-d) As defined for Create EI job in clause 7.3.2.1.3.3. e) The jobStatusNotificationUri parameter is included in the EiJobObject. For the response message 1)-3) As defined for Create EI job in clause 7.3.2.1.3.3. Check the HTTP messages recorded in Step 4 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met for the EI job status notification operation: For the request message a) The URI is the jobStatusNotificationUri provided in the Create EI job operation. b) The HTTP request is a POST operation. c) The HTTP request message body contains the EiJobStatusObject of the EI job for which status is updated and the EiJobStatusObject conforms to the EI type status schema. For the response message 1) The return code is "204 No content".

### 7.3.7 Deliver EI job result test scenarios

#### 7.3.7.1 Deliver EI job result (positive case)

##### 7.3.7.1.1 Test description and applicability
This purpose of this test case is to test the deliver EI job result functionality of A1-EI Producer and A1-EI Consumer as specified in A1AP [4] clause 5.3.5.2. The expected outcome is successful EI job result request and delivery of EI job results. This test case is optional if the DUTs claim to support A1-EI service.

##### 7.3.7.1.2 Test entrance criteria
The test entrance criteria for Create EI job specified in clause 7.3.2.1.2 applies. And in addition: 1) Non-RTR-DUT and Near-RTR-DUT have agreed on a how to trigger the EI job results delivery based on supported EI types and functionality in the Non-RTR-DUT.

##### 7.3.7.1.3 Test methodology
7.3.7.1.3.1 Initial conditions The initial conditions for Create EI job specified in clause 7.3.2.1.3.1 applies. And in addition: 1) The Near-RTR-DUT has HTTP server ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the Non-RTR-DUT for EI job result delivery.
> NOTE: The Near-RTR-DUT is expected to provide callback URI (jobResultUri) during the Create EI job procedure (see
A1AP [4] clause 5.3.4.3) for which it can relate received EI job results to the eiJobId that was generated when creating the EI job for which EI job result is delivered. 7.3.7.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. Same as for Create EI job, see clause 7.3.2.1.3.2, including the jobResultUri parameter in the EiJobObject. Step 2. At the protocol analyser the contents of the HTTP request and the HTTP response are recorded. Step 3. Initiate appropriate action in the Non-RTR-DUT to initiate EI job result delivery for the created EI job. Step 4. At the protocol analyser the contents of the HTTP request and the HTTP response are recorded. 7.3.7.1.3.3 Expected result Check the HTTP messages recorded in Step 2 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met for the Create EI job operation: For the request message a)-d) As defined for Create EI job in clause 7.3.2.1.3.3. For the response message 1)-3) As defined for Create EI job in clause 7.3.2.1.3.3. Check the HTTP messages recorded in Step 4 of procedure. The test is considered passed if the following conditions are met for the EI job result notification operation: For the request message a) The URI is the jobResultUri provided in the Create EI job operation. b) The HTTP request is a POST operation. c) The HTTP request message body contains the EiJobResultObject of the EI job for which result is delivered and the EiJobResultObject conforms to the EI type result schema. For the response message 1) The return code is "204 No content".


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG2.TS.A1UCR-R004-v04.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG2.TS.A1UCR-R004-v04.00 Technical Specification"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols, abbreviations and conventions

## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in A1GAP [1], clause 3.1 apply.

## 3.2 Symbols
Void.

## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in A1GAP [1], clause 3.3 apply.

## 3.4 Conventions

### 3.4.1 General
For the purposes of the present document, the conventions in the following clauses apply.

### 3.4.2 Requirements
The requirements and solutions for use cases are based on the methodology specified in ITU-T M.3020 [7], clause A.1.2.

### 3.4.3 UML diagrams
The sequence diagrams for the messages that are exchanged between use case actors are based on the OMG UML [8], clause 17.4.4.1 and an example is illustrated in figure 3.4.3-1. For each message in the present document, the following information is indicated:
- interface name and procedure name;
- type of message (e.g. request or response); and
- transferred information (if applicable).
An example is illustrated in figure 3.4.3-2.

# 4 General
Non-RT RIC with A1 termination function and A1 related functions in the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework is defined in Non- RT RIC Architecture [5]. Near-RT RIC with A1 Termination and internal functions is defined in Near-RT RIC Architecture [6]. Access token request, and service access request based on token verification, is defined in SPS [9], clause 4.7. The A1 policy management service (A1-P) and the A1-P procedures are defined in A1GAP [1], clause 4.1.3.1, the service operations and the API are defined in A1AP [3], clause 6.2, and policy types are defined in A1TD [4], clause 7.2. The A1 enrichment information service (A1-EI) and the A1-EI procedures are defined in A1GAP [1], clause 4.1.3.2, the service operations and the API are defined in A1AP [3], clause 6.3, and EI types are defined in A1TD [4], clause 9.2. The A1 ML model management service (A1-ML) is defined in A1GAP [1], clause 4.1.3.3.

# 5 Requirements

## 5.1 Functional requirements
For the A1 policy management service (A1-P), the functional requirements are included in table 5.1-1. REQ Description Note REQ-A1-P-FUN1 A1-P shall support discovery of policy type identifiers REQ-A1-P-FUN2 An A1 policy type shall be identified by a policy type identifier REQ-A1-P-FUN3 A1-P shall support retrieval of information about A1 policy types REQ-A1-P-FUN4 A1-P shall support retrieval of status information related to an A1 policy type REQ-A1-P-FUN5 A1-P shall support subscription to, and notification about, changes in status information related to an A1 policy type REQ-A1-P-FUN6 A1-P shall support request of policy enforcement related to an A1 policy type by managing an A1 policy REQ-A1-P-FUN7 A1-P shall support discovery of policy identifiers REQ-A1-P-FUN8 A1-P shall support retrieval of information about an A1 policy REQ-A1-P-FUN9 A1-P shall support retrieval of status information related to an A1 policy REQ-A1-P-FUN10 A1-P shall support subscription to, and notification about, changes in status information related to an A1 policy REQ-A1-P-FUN11 A1-P shall support authorization of service access requests For the A1 enrichment information service (A1-EI), the functional requirements are included in table 5.1-2. REQ Description Note REQ-A1-EI-FUN1 A1-EI shall support discovery of EI type identifiers REQ-A1-EI-FUN2 An EI type shall be identified by an EI type identifier REQ-A1-EI-FUN3 A1-EI shall support retrieval of information about EI types REQ-A1-EI-FUN4 A1-EI shall support retrieval of status information related to an EI type REQ-A1-EI-FUN5 A1-EI shall support subscription to, and notification about, changes in status information related to an EI type REQ-A1-EI-FUN6 A1-EI shall support request of enrichment information related to an EI type by managing an EI job REQ-A1-EI-FUN7 A1-EI shall support discovery of EI job identifiers REQ-A1-EI-FUN8 A1-EI shall support retrieval of information about an EI job REQ-A1-EI-FUN9 A1-EI shall support retrieval of status information related to an EI job REQ-A1-EI-FUN10 A1-EI shall support subscription to, and notification about, changes in status information related to an EI job. REQ-A1-EI-FUN11 A1-EI shall support delivery of enrichment information over the A1 interface REQ-A1-EI-FUN12 A1-EI shall support authorization of service access requests For the A1 ML model management service (A1-ML), the functional requirements are included in table 5.1-3. REQ Description Note REQ-A1-ML-FUN1 A1-ML shall support authorization of service access requests REQ-A1-ML-FUN2 A1-ML shall support the request of AI/ML model training REQ-A1-ML-FUN3 A1-ML shall support query of AI/ML model training job status. REQ-A1-ML-FUN4 A1-ML shall support notification for AI/ML model training job status changes. REQ-A1-ML-FUN5 A1-ML shall support discovery of AI/ML model training capabilities.

# 6 Use cases for A1 policy management

## 6.1 Policy type discovery use cases

### 6.1.1 Background and goal of the use cases
The policy type discovery use cases define how Non-RT RIC can detect which A1 policy types are available in a Near-RT RIC and how Non-RT RIC can retrieve information about one or more A1 policy types. Policy type information is provided by the Near-RT RIC and is used by Non-RT RIC for creating and by Near-RT RIC for validating A1 policies. When policy type identifier and policy type information are known, the Non-RT RIC can create A1 policies in a Near-RT RIC as described by policy creation use cases.

### 6.1.2 Entities/resources involved in the use cases
1) Non-RT RIC: a) Discovers A1 policy types available in Near-RT RIC. 2) Near-RT RIC: b) Makes A1 policy types available to Non-RT RIC for which it can support A1 policies.

### 6.1.3 Solutions

#### 6.1.3.1 Query all policy type identifiers
Use case stage Evolution / specification <<Uses>> Related use Goal Non-RT RIC to discover policy type identifiers for A1 policy types that are available in Near-RT RIC Non-RT RIC as A1-P Consumer Actors and Roles Near-RT RIC as A1-P Producer Assumptions A1 policy types are available in Near-RT RIC A1 interface is established, and the actors are authorized for using the Pre-conditions A1-P service Begins when Non-RT RIC initiates A1 policy type identifiers query Step 1 (M) Non-RT RIC sends Query policy type identifiers request Near-RT RIC sends Query policy type identifiers response containing Step 2 (M) policy type identifiers Non-RT RIC has received policy type identifiers for all available A1 policy Ends when types Exceptions Post-conditions Policy type identifiers are known to Non-RT RIC Traceability REQ-A1-P-FUN1

#### 6.1.3.2 Query single policy type
Use case stage Evolution / specification <<Uses>> Related use Goal Non-RT RIC to retrieve policy type information about an A1 policy type Actors and Roles Non-RT RIC as A1-P Consumer Near-RT RIC as A1-P Producer Assumptions The policy type identifier known to the Non-RT RIC corresponds to an available A1 policy type Pre-conditions A1 interface is established, and the actors are authorized for using the A1-P service. The policy type identifier is known to the Non-RT RIC. Begins when Non-RT RIC initiates A1 policy type query Step 1 (M) Non-RT RIC sends Query single policy type request containing the policy type identifier of the policy type being queried Step 2 (M) Near-RT RIC sends Query single policy type response containing policy type information Ends when Non-RT RIC has received the A1 policy type information Exceptions Post-conditions A1 policy type information is known to Non-RT RIC Traceability REQ-A1-P-FUN2, REQ-A1-P-FUN3

#### 6.1.3.3 Query multiple policy types
Use case stage Evolution / specification <<Uses>> Related use Goal Non-RT RIC to retrieve policy type information for a selection of A1 policy types it is interested in Actors and Roles Non-RT RIC as A1-P Consumer Near-RT RIC as A1-P Producer Assumptions The policy type identifiers known to the Non-RT RIC correspond to available A1 policy types Pre-conditions A1 interface is established, and the actors are authorized for using the A1-P service. The policy type identifiers are known to the Non-RT RIC. Begins when Non-RT RIC initiates A1 policy types query Step 1 - ref (M) Non-RT RIC queries for information about a single policy type 6.1.3.2 Step 2 - loop (M) Non-RT RIC repeats Step 1 for the policy type identifiers it is interested in Ends when Non-RT RIC has received information about multiple available A1 policy types Exceptions Post-conditions Information about multiple A1 policy types is known to Non-RT RIC Traceability REQ-A1-P-FUN2, REQ-A1-P-FUN3

#### 6.1.3.4 Query all policy type information
Use case stage Evolution / specification <<Uses>> Related use Goal Non-RT RIC to retrieve policy type information for all A1 policy types that are available in Near-RT RIC Actors and Roles Non-RT RIC as A1-P Consumer Near-RT RIC as A1-P Producer Assumptions The policy type identifiers known to the Non-RT RIC correspond to all available A1 policy types. Pre-conditions A1 interface is established, and the actors are authorized for using the A1-P service. All policy type identifiers are known to the Non-RT RIC. Begins when Non-RT RIC initiates A1 policy types query Step 1 - ref (M) Non-RT RIC queries for information about a single policy type 6.1.3.2 Step 2 - loop (M) Non-RT RIC repeats Step 1 for all policy type identifiers Ends when Non-RT RIC has received information about all available A1 policy types Exceptions Post-conditions Information about all available A1 policy types is known to Non-RT RIC Traceability REQ-A1-P-FUN2, REQ-A1-P-FUN3

### 6.1.4 Required data
An A1 policy type is identified by a policy type identifier. A list of policy type identifiers is provided by Near-RT RIC corresponding to available A1 policy types. The Non-RT RIC provides a policy type identifier when querying for information about a single A1 policy type. The Near-RT RIC includes policy type information in response to a query for information about an A1 policy type.

## 6.2 Policy type status use cases

### 6.2.1 Background and goal of the use cases
The policy type status use cases define how Non-RT RIC can detect status of an A1 policy type and subscribe to notifications for changes in availability and state of policy types. Policy type status information is provided by the Near-RT RIC and is used by Non-RT RIC when managing A1 policies.

### 6.2.2 Entities/resources involved in the use cases
1) Non-RT RIC: a) Requests policy type status. b) Subscribes to notifications for changes in policy type status. 2) Near-RT RIC: a) Responds to queries for policy type status. b) Handles subscriptions and notifies Non-RT RIC about changes in availability and state of policy types.

### 6.2.3 Solutions

#### 6.2.3.1 Query policy type status
Use case stage Evolution / specification <<Uses>> Related use Goal Non-RT RIC to retrieve policy type status information for an A1 policy type Actors and Roles Non-RT RIC as A1-P Consumer Near-RT RIC as A1-P Producer Assumptions The policy type identifier known to the Non-RT RIC corresponds to an available policy type Pre-conditions A1 interface is established, and the actors are authorized for using the A1-P service. The policy type identifier is known to the Non-RT RIC. Begins when Non-RT RIC initiates A1 policy type status query Step 1 (M) Non-RT RIC sends Query policy type status request containing the policy type identifier of the policy type being queried for status Step 2 (M) Near-RT RIC sends Query policy type status response containing policy type status information Ends when Non-RT RIC has received the A1 policy type status information Exceptions Post-conditions Policy type status information is known to Non-RT RIC Traceability REQ-A1-P-FUN4

#### 6.2.3.2 Subscription for policy type status notification
Use case stage Evolution / specification <<Uses>> Related use Goal Non-RT RIC to subscribe to notifications for policy type status information for A1 policy types Actors and Roles Non-RT RIC as A1-P Consumer Near-RT RIC as A1-P Producer Assumptions Non-RT RIC is interested in notifications of policy types that are made available or unavailable, and/or notifications of state changes of a policy type Pre-conditions A1 interface is established, and the actors are authorized for using the A1-P service. Policy type identifiers are known to the Non-RT RIC when subscribing for notifications on type state changes. Begins when Non-RT RIC initiates A1 Policy type status subscribe Step 1 (M) Non-RT RIC sends Subscribe policy type status request containing the policy type status subscription information including policy type identifier(s) if type state changes are requested. Step 2 (M) Near-RT RIC sends Subscribe policy type status response Ends when Policy type status subscription has been created Exceptions Post-conditions Non-RT RIC is subscribed to policy type status notifications Traceability REQ-A1-P-FUN5 Use case stage Evolution / specification <<Uses>> Related use Goal Non-RT RIC to update its subscription to notifications for policy type status information for A1 policy types Actors and Roles Non-RT RIC as A1-P Consumer Near-RT RIC as A1-P Producer Assumptions Non-RT RIC is interested in notifications of policy types that are made available or unavailable, and/or notifications of state changes of a policy type Pre-conditions A1 interface is established, and the actors are authorized for using the A1-P service. Policy type status notifications has been subscribed to. Begins when Non-RT RIC initiates A1 Policy type status subscribe Step 1 (M) Non-RT RIC sends Subscribe policy type status request containing the updated policy type status subscription information Step 2 (M) Near-RT RIC sends Subscribe policy type status response Ends when Policy type status subscription has been updated Exceptions Post-conditions Non-RT RIC is subscribed to policy type status notifications Traceability REQ-A1-P-FUN5 Use case stage Evolution / specification <<Uses>> Related use Goal Non-RT RIC to unsubscribe from notifications for policy type status information for A1 policy types Actors and Roles Non-RT RIC as A1-P Consumer Near-RT RIC as A1-P Producer Assumptions Non-RT RIC is no longer interested in notifications of policy types status Pre-conditions A1 interface is established, and the actors are authorized for using the A1-P service. Policy type status notifications has been subscribed to. Begins when Non-RT RIC initiates A1 Policy type status unsubscribe Step 1 (M) Non-RT RIC sends Subscribe policy type status request containing policy type status subscription information with no content Step 2 (M) Near-RT RIC sends Subscribe policy type status response Ends when Policy type status subscription has been deleted Exceptions Post-conditions Non-RT RIC is not subscribed to policy type status notifications Traceability REQ-A1-P-FUN5

#### 6.2.3.3 Notify policy type status
Use case stage Evolution / specification <<Uses>> Related use Goal Non-RT RIC to receive policy type status information for an A1 Policy type Actors and Roles Non-RT RIC as A1-P Consumer Near-RT RIC as A1-P Producer Assumptions Pre-conditions A1 interface is established, and the actors are authorized for using the A1-P service. Non-RT RIC has subscribed to policy type status notifications and provided a callback URI. Begins when Event occurs in Near-RT RIC related to the status of an A1 Policy type, either a change in availability or of the type state Step 1 (M) Near-RT RIC sends Notify policy type status message containing the policy type status information Ends when Non-RT RIC has received the policy type status information Exceptions Post-conditions Policy type status information is known to Non-RT RIC Traceability REQ-A1-P-FUN5

### 6.2.4 Required data
The policy type status information includes policy type availability change information (i.e. if A1 policy type has been made available or unavailable) and/or state change information related to an A1 policy type. The state of the A1 policy type indicates if A1 policies can be created for the policy type or not, and if A1 policies for the policy type would be enforced or not enforced. The policy type status subscription information includes details on whether notifications are requested for changes in A1 policy type availability and/or changes in state of the A1 policy type for which policy type identifiers were provided.

## 6.3 Create policy use cases

### 6.3.1 Background and goal of the use cases
The create policy use cases define how Non-RT RIC can create an A1 policy for an A1 policy type and subscribe to notifications for changes in policy status.

### 6.3.2 Entities/resources involved in the use cases
1) Non-RT RIC: a) Creates A1 policy in Near-RT RIC. 2) Near-RT RIC: b) Enforces A1 policies for available A1 policy types.

### 6.3.3 Solutions

#### 6.3.3.1 Create single policy
Use case stage Evolution / specification <<Uses>> Related use Goal Non-RT RIC to create A1 policy for an A1 policy type Actors and Roles Non-RT RIC as A1-P Consumer Near-RT RIC as A1-P Producer Assumptions The policy type information known to the Non-RT RIC corresponds to an available A1 policy type. Non-RT RIC has the schema for formulating A1 policy information. Pre-conditions A1 interface is established, and the actors are authorized for using the A1-P service. The policy type information is known to the Non-RT RIC. Begins when Non-RT RIC initiates A1 policy creation Step 1 (M) Non-RT RIC sends Create policy request containing the policy identifier and the policy information Step 2 (M) Near-RT RIC sends Create policy response Ends when A1 policy has been created Exceptions Post-conditions The A1 policy exists Traceability REQ-A1-P-FUN6

### 6.3.4 Required data
For creating an A1 policy of a certain policy type, the Non-RT RIC provides the policy identifier and the policy information, the callback URI for policy result delivery, and optionally the callback URI for policy status notifications.

## 6.4 Query policy use cases

### 6.4.1 Background and goal of the use cases
The query policies use cases define how Non-RT RIC can query for information on existing A1 policies.

### 6.4.2 Entities/resources involved in the use cases
1) Non-RT RIC: a) Discovers A1 policies that exist in the Near-RT RIC. b) Retrieves policy information. 2) Near-RT RIC: a) Handles A1 policies. b) Responds to queries for policy identifiers and policy information.

### 6.4.3 Solutions

#### 6.4.3.1 Query policy identifiers
Use case stage Evolution / specification <<Uses>> Related use Goal Non-RT RIC to discover policy identifiers for A1 policies that exist in Near-RT RIC Non-RT RIC as A1-P Consumer Actors and Roles Near-RT RIC as A1-P Producer Assumptions A1 policies exist in Near-RT RIC A1 interface is established, and the actors are authorized for using the Pre-conditions A1-P service Begins when Non-RT RIC initiates A1 policy identifiers query Step 1 (M) Non-RT RIC sends Query policy identifiers request Near-RT RIC sends Query policy identifiers response containing policy Step 2 (M) identifiers Ends when Non-RT RIC has received policy identifiers for existing A1 policies Exceptions Post-conditions Policy identifiers are known to Non-RT RIC Traceability REQ-A1-P-FUN7

#### 6.4.3.2 Query single policy
Use case stage Evolution / specification <<Uses>> Related use Goal Non-RT RIC to retrieve information about an A1 policy Actors and Roles Non-RT RIC as A1-P Consumer Near-RT RIC as A1-P Producer Assumptions The A1 policy identifier known to the Non-RT RIC corresponds to an existing A1 policy. Non-RT RIC has the schema for interpreting policy information. Pre-conditions A1 interface is established, and the actors are authorized for using the A1-P service. The policy identifier is known to the Non-RT RIC. Begins when Non-RT RIC initiates A1 policy query Step 1 (M) Non-RT RIC sends Query policy request containing the policy identifier Step 2 (M) Near-RT RIC sends Query policy response containing policy information Ends when Non-RT RIC has received the policy information about the A1 policy Exceptions Post-conditions Policy information is known to Near-RT RIC Traceability REQ-A1-P-FUN8

### 6.4.4 Required data
For querying policy identifiers, the Non-RT RIC optionally provides a policy type identifier as filter parameter. For querying an A1 policy, the Non-RT RIC provides a policy identifier. The policy information includes the A1 policy definition.

## 6.5 Update policy use cases

### 6.5.1 Background and goal of the use cases
The update policy use cases define how Non-RT RIC can update an existing A1 policy. Non-RT RIC provides updated policy information. The reason for the update can be related to state of the A1 policy type and received policy status information.

### 6.5.2 Entities/resources involved in the use cases
1) Non-RT RIC: a) Updates A1 policy in Near-RT RIC that it has created. 2) Near-RT RIC: b) Handles A1 policies for available policy types.

### 6.5.3 Solutions

#### 6.5.3.1 Update single policy
Use case stage Evolution / specification <<Uses>> Related use Goal Non-RT RIC to update an existing A1 policy Actors and Roles Non-RT RIC as A1-P Consumer Near-RT RIC as A1-P Producer Assumptions The policy identifier known to the Non-RT RIC corresponds to an existing A1 policy that was created by the Non-RT RIC Pre-conditions A1 interface is established, and the actors are authorized for using the A1-P service. The A1 policy exists. Begins when Non-RT RIC initiates A1 policy update Step 1 (M) Non-RT RIC sends Update policy request containing the updated policy information Step 2 (M) Near-RT RIC sends Update policy response Ends when A1 policy has been updated Exceptions Post-conditions The A1 policy exists Traceability REQ-A1-P-FUN6

### 6.5.4 Required data
For updating an A1 policy, the Non-RT RIC provides the policy identifier and updated policy information and/or callback URI for policy status notifications.

## 6.6 Delete policy use cases

### 6.6.1 Background and goal of the use cases
The delete policy use cases define how Non-RT RIC can delete an A1 policy. The reason for the deletion can be related to the state of the A1 policy type and received policy status information.

### 6.6.2 Entities/resources involved in the use cases
1) Non-RT RIC: a) Deletes A1 policy in Near-RT RIC that it has created. 2) Near-RT RIC: b) Handles A1 policies for available policy types.

### 6.6.3 Solutions

#### 6.6.3.1 Delete single policy
Use case stage Evolution / specification <<Uses>> Related use Goal Non-RT RIC to delete an existing A1 policy Actors and Roles Non-RT RIC as A1-P Consumer Near-RT RIC as A1-P Producer Assumptions The policy identifier known to the Non-RT RIC corresponds to an existing A1 policy that was created by the Non-RT RIC Pre-conditions A1 interface is established, and the actors are authorized for using the A1-P service. The A1 policy exists. Begins when Non-RT RIC initiates A1 policy deletion Step 1 (M) Non-RT RIC sends Delete policy request containing the policy identifier Step 2 (M) Near-RT RIC sends Delete policy response Ends when A1 policy has been deleted Exceptions Post-conditions The A1 policy does not exist Traceability REQ-A1-P-FUN6

### 6.6.4 Required data
For deleting an A1 policy, the Non-RT RIC provides the policy identifier.

## 6.7 Policy status use cases

### 6.7.1 Background and goal of the use cases
The policy status use cases define how Non-RT RIC can detect status, and changes in status, of an A1 policy. Policy status information is provided by the Near-RT RIC and is used by Non-RT RIC when managing A1 policies.

### 6.7.2 Entities/resources involved in the use cases
1) Non-RT RIC: a) Requests A1 policy status. b) Receives notifications about changes in policy status. 2) Near-RT RIC: a) Handles A1 policy and responds to queries for policy status. b) Notifies Non-RT RIC about changes in policy status.

### 6.7.3 Solutions

#### 6.7.3.1 Query policy status
Use case stage Evolution / specification <<Uses>> Related use Goal Non-RT RIC to retrieve policy status information for an existing A1 policy Actors and Roles Non-RT RIC as A1-P Consumer Near-RT RIC as A1-P Producer Assumptions The policy identifier known to the Non-RT RIC corresponds to an existing A1 policy that was created by the Non-RT RIC. Non-RT RIC has the schema for interpreting policy status information. Pre-conditions A1 interface is established, and the actors are authorized for using the A1-P service. The policy identifier is known to the Non-RT RIC. Begins when Non-RT RIC initiates A1 policy status query Step 1 (M) Non-RT RIC sends Query policy status request containing the policy identifier of the A1 policy being queried for status Step 2 (M) Near-RT RIC sends Query policy status response containing policy status information Ends when Non-RT RIC has received the A1 policy status information Exceptions Post-conditions Policy status information is known to Non-RT RIC Traceability REQ-A1-P-FUN9

#### 6.7.3.2 Notify policy status change
Use case stage Evolution / specification <<Uses>> Related use Goal Non-RT RIC to receive policy status change information for an existing A1 policy Actors and Roles Non-RT RIC as A1-P Consumer Near-RT RIC as A1-P Producer Assumptions Non-RT RIC has the schema for interpretating policy status information. Pre-conditions A1 interface is established, and the actors are authorized for using the A1-P service. A callback URI for policy status notifications has been provided when creating and/or updating the A1 policy. Begins when Event occurs in Near-RT RIC related to the status change of the A1 policy Step 1 (M) Near-RT RIC sends Notify policy status message containing the policy status information Ends when Non-RT RIC has received the A1 policy status change information Exceptions Post-conditions Policy status information is known to Non-RT RIC Traceability REQ-A1-P-FUN10

### 6.7.4 Required data
The policy status information includes the A1 policy status that is formulated based on, and validated against, the policy status schema and indicates if A1 policy is enforced or not enforced. The policy status change information includes indication about a change of the A1 policy status.

# 7 Use cases for A1 enrichment information

## 7.1 EI discovery use cases

### 7.1.1 Background and goal of the use cases
The EI discovery use cases define how Near-RT RIC can detect which EI types are available in Non-RT RIC and how Near- RT RIC can retrieve information about EI types. EI type information is provided by Non-RT RIC and is used by Near-RT RIC for creating, and by Non-RT RIC for validating, EI jobs. EI type information is also used by Non-RT RIC for creating, and by Near-RT RIC for validating, EI job results. When EI type identifier and EI type information are known, the Near-RT RIC can create EI jobs in a Non-RT RIC as described by EI job creation use cases, and the Non-RT RIC can deliver EI job results to Near-RT RIC as described by EI delivery use cases. EI job constraints information is provided by Non-RT RIC and used by Near-RT RIC when formulating EI job definitions based on the EI type information.

### 7.1.2 Entities/resources involved in the use cases
1) Non-RT RIC: a) Makes EI types available to Near-RT RIC for which it can support EI jobs and deliver EI job results. b) Provides information on EI types and constraints for EI jobs. 2) Near-RT RIC: a) Discovers EI types available in Non-RT RIC. b) Retrieves EI type information.

### 7.1.3 Solutions

#### 7.1.3.1 Query EI type identifiers
Use case stage Evolution / specification <<Uses>> Related use Goal Near-RT RIC to discover EI type identifiers for EI types that are available in Non-RT RIC Non-RT RIC as A1-EI Producer Actors and Roles Near-RT RIC as A1-EI Consumer Assumptions EI types are available in Non-RT RIC A1 interface is established, and the actors are authorized for using the Pre-conditions A1-EI service Begins when Near-RT RIC initiates EI type identifiers query Step 1 (M) Near-RT RIC sends Query EI type identifiers request Non-RT RIC sends Query EI type identifiers response containing EI type Step 2 (M) identifiers Ends when Near-RT RIC has received EI type identifiers for available EI types Exceptions Post-conditions EI type identifiers are known to Non-RT RIC Traceability REQ-A1-EI-FUN1

#### 7.1.3.2 Query EI type
Use case stage Evolution / specification <<Uses>> Related use Goal Near-RT RIC to retrieve EI type information about an EI type Actors and Roles Non-RT RIC as A1-EI Producer Near-RT RIC as A1-EI Consumer Assumptions The EI type identifier known to the Near-RT RIC corresponds to an available EI type Pre-conditions A1 interface is established, and the actors are authorized for using the A1-EI service. The EI type identifier is known to the Near-RT RIC. Begins when Near-RT RIC initiates EI type query Step 1 (M) Near-RT RIC sends Query EI type request containing the EI type identifier of the EI type being queried Step 2 (M) Non-RT RIC sends Query EI type response containing EI type information and EI job constraints information Ends when Near-RT RIC has received the EI type information Exceptions Post-conditions EI type information is known to Near-RT RIC Traceability REQ-A1-EI-FUN2, REQ-A1-EI-FUN3

### 7.1.4 Required data
An EI type is identified by an EI type identifier. A list of EI type identifiers is provided by Non-RT RIC corresponding to available EI types. The Near-RT RIC provides an EI type identifier when querying for information about an EI type. In response to a query for information about an EI type, the Non-RT RIC includes EI type information and optionally also EI job constraints information. The EI type information includes the schemas for EI job definition, EI job status, EI job result and EI job constraints. The EI job constraints information includes information on how EI job can be created and how EI job results can be produced and delivered.

## 7.2 EI type status use cases

### 7.2.1 Background and goal of the use cases
The EI type status use cases define how Near-RT RIC can detect status of an EI type and subscribe to notifications for changes in availability and status of EI types. EI type status information is provided by the Non-RT RIC and is used by Near-RT RIC when managing EI jobs.

### 7.2.2 Entities/resources involved in the use cases
1) Non-RT RIC: a) Responds to queries for EI type status. b) Handles subscriptions and notifies Near-RT RIC about changes in availability and state of EI types. 2) Near-RT RIC: a) Requests EI type status. b) Subscribes to notifications for changes in EI type status.

### 7.2.3 Solutions

#### 7.2.3.1 Query EI type status
Use case stage Evolution / specification <<Uses>> Related use Goal Near-RT RIC to retrieve EI type status information for an EI type Actors and Roles Non-RT RIC as A1-EI Producer Near-RT RIC as A1-EI Consumer Assumptions The EI type identifier known to the Near-RT RIC corresponds to an available EI type Pre-conditions A1 interface is established, and the actors are authorized for using the A1-EI service. The EI type identifier is known to the Near-RT RIC. Begins when Near-RT RIC initiates EI type status query Step 1 (M) Near-RT RIC sends Query EI type status request containing the EI type identifier of the EI type being queried for status Step 2 (M) Non-RT RIC sends Query EI type status response containing EI type status information Ends when Near-RT RIC has received the EI type status information Exceptions Post-conditions EI type status information is known to Near-RT RIC Traceability REQ-A1-EI-FUN4

#### 7.2.3.2 Subscription for EI type status notification
Use case stage Evolution / specification <<Uses>> Related use Goal Near-RT RIC to subscribe to notifications for EI type status information Actors and Roles Non-RT RIC as A1-EI Producer Near-RT RIC as A1-EI Consumer Assumptions Near-RT RIC is interested in notifications of EI types that are made available or unavailable, and/or notifications of state changes of a policy type Pre-conditions A1 interface is established, and the actors are authorized for using the A1-EI service. EI type identifiers are known to the Near-RT RIC when subscribing for notifications on type state changes. Begins when Near-RT RIC initiates EI type status subscribe Step 1 (M) Near-RT RIC sends Subscribe EI type status request containing the EI type status subscription information including EI type identifier(s) if type state changes are requested. Step 2 (M) Non-RT RIC sends Subscribe EI type status response Ends when EI type status subscription has been created Exceptions Post-conditions Near-RT RIC is subscribed to EI type status notifications Traceability REQ-A1-EI-FUN5 Use case stage Evolution / specification <<Uses>> Related use Goal Near-RT RIC to update its subscription to notifications for EI type status information Actors and Roles Non-RT RIC as A1-EI Producer Near-RT RIC as A1-EI Consumer Assumptions Near-RT RIC is interested in notifications of EI types that are made available or unavailable, and/or notifications of state changes of a policy type Pre-conditions A1 interface is established, and the actors are authorized for using the A1-EI service. EI type status notifications has been subscribed to. Begins when Near-RT RIC initiates EI type status subscribe Step 1 (M) Near-RT RIC sends Subscribe EI type status request containing the updated EI type status subscription information Step 2 (M) Non-RT RIC sends Subscribe EI type status response Ends when EI type status subscription has been updated Exceptions Post-conditions Near-RT RIC is subscribed to EI type status notifications Traceability REQ-A1-EI-FUN5 Use case stage Evolution / specification <<Uses>> Related use Goal Near-RT RIC to unsubscribe from notifications for EI type status information Actors and Roles Non-RT RIC as A1-EI Producer Near-RT RIC as A1-EI Consumer Assumptions Near-RT RIC is no longer interested in notifications of EI types status Pre-conditions A1 interface is established, and the actors are authorized for using the A1-EI service. EI type status notifications have been subscribed to. Begins when Near-RT RIC initiates EI type status unsubscribe Step 1 (M) Near-RT RIC sends Subscribe EI type status request containing the EI type status subscription information with no content Step 2 (M) Non-RT RIC sends Subscribe EI type status response Ends when EI type status subscription has been deleted Exceptions Post-conditions Near-RT RIC is not subscribed to EI type status notifications Traceability REQ-A1-EI-FUN5

#### 7.2.3.3 Notify EI type status
Use case stage Evolution / specification <<Uses>> Related use Goal Near-RT RIC to receive EI type status information for an EI type Actors and Roles Non-RT RIC as A1-EI Producer Near-RT RIC as A1-EI Consumer Assumptions Pre-conditions A1 interface is established, and the actors are authorized for using the A1-EI service. Near-RT RIC has subscribed to EI type status notifications and provided a callback URI. Begins when Event occurs in Non-RT RIC related to the status of an EI type, either a change in availability or of the type state Step 1 (M) Non-RT RIC sends Notify EI type status request containing the EI type status information Ends when Near-RT RIC has received the EI type status information Exceptions Post-conditions EI type status information is known to Near-RT RIC Traceability REQ-A1-EI-FUN5

### 7.2.4 Required data
The EI type status information includes EI type availability change information (i.e. if EI type has been made available or unavailable) and/or state change information related to an EI type. The state of the EI type state indicates if EI jobs can be created for the EI type or not, and if EI jobs for the EI type would be enabled or disabled. The EI type status subscription information includes details on if notifications are requested for changes in EI type availability and/or changes in state of the EI type for which EI type identifiers were provided.

## 7.3 Create EI job use cases

### 7.3.1 Background and goal of the use cases
The create EI job use cases define how Near-RT RIC can create an EI job for an EI type and subscribe to notifications for changes in EI job status. Near-RT RIC provides EI job definition information based on EI type information and considering the EI job constraints.

### 7.3.2 Entities/resources involved in the use cases
1) Non-RT RIC: a) Handles EI jobs for available EI types. 2) Near-RT RIC: b) Creates EI job in Non-RT RIC.

### 7.3.3 Solutions

#### 7.3.3.1 Create EI job
Use case stage Evolution / specification <<Uses>> Related use Goal Near-RT RIC to create EI job for an EI type Actors and Roles Non-RT RIC as A1-EI Producer Near-RT RIC as A1-EI Consumer Assumptions The EI type information known to the Near-RT RIC corresponds to an available EI type. Near-RT RIC has the schema for formulating EI job definition. Pre-conditions A1 interface is established, and the actors are authorized for using the A1-EI service. The EI type information is known to the Near-RT RIC. Begins when Near-RT RIC initiates EI job creation Step 1 (M) Near-RT RIC sends Create EI job request containing the EI job identifier and the EI job definition Step 2 (M) Non-RT RIC sends Create EI job response Ends when EI job has been created Exceptions Post-conditions EI job exists Traceability REQ-A1-EI-FUN6

### 7.3.4 Required data
For creating an EI job of a certain EI type, the Near-RT RIC provides the EI job identifier and the EI job information, the callback URI for EI job result delivery, and optionally the callback URI for EI job status notifications. EI job information includes the EI job definition that is formulated based on, and validated against, the EI job definition schema. The EI job definition can be formulated considering the EI job constraints information if provided.

## 7.4 Query EI jobs use cases

### 7.4.1 Background and goal of the use cases
The query EI jobs use cases define how Near-RT RIC can query for information on existing EI jobs.

### 7.4.2 Entities/resources involved in the use cases
1) Non-RT RIC: a) Handles EI job. b) Responds to queries for EI job identifiers and EI job information. 2) Near-RT RIC: a) Discovers EI jobs available in Non-RT RIC. b) Retrieves EI job information.

### 7.4.3 Solutions

#### 7.4.3.1 Query EI job identifiers
Use case stage Evolution / specification <<Uses>> Related use Goal Near-RT RIC to discover job identifiers for EI jobs that exist in Non-RT RIC Non-RT RIC as A1-EI Producer Actors and Roles Near-RT RIC as A1-EI Consumer Assumptions EI jobs exist in Non-RT RIC A1 interface is established, and the actors are authorized for using the Pre-conditions A1-EI service Begins when Near-RT RIC initiates EI job identifiers query Step 1 (M) Near-RT RIC sends Query EI job identifiers request Non-RT RIC sends Query EI job identifiers response containing EI job Step 2 (M) identifiers Ends when Near-RT RIC has received EI job identifiers Exceptions Post-conditions EI job identifiers are known to Non-RT RIC Traceability REQ-A1-EI-FUN7

#### 7.4.3.2 Query EI job
Use case stage Evolution / specification <<Uses>> Related use Goal Near-RT RIC to retrieve information about an EI job Actors and Roles Non-RT RIC as A1-EI Producer Near-RT RIC as A1-EI Consumer Assumptions The EI job identifier known to the Near-RT RIC corresponds to an existing EI job. Near-RT RIC has the schema for interpreting EI job information. Pre-conditions A1 interface is established, and the actors are authorized for using the A1-EI service. The EI job identifier is known to the Near-RT RIC. Begins when Near-RT RIC initiates EI job query Step 1 (M) Near-RT RIC sends Query EI job request containing the EI job identifier Step 2 (M) Non-RT RIC sends Query EI job response containing EI job information Ends when Near-RT RIC has received the EI job information Exceptions Post-conditions EI job information is known to Near-RT RIC Traceability REQ-A1-EI-FUN8

### 7.4.4 Required data
For querying EI job identifiers, the Near-RT RIC provides optionally an EI type identifier as filter parameter. For querying EI job, the Near-RT RIC provides an EI job identifier. EI job information includes the EI job definition.

## 7.5 Update EI job use cases

### 7.5.1 Background and goal of the use cases
The update EI job use cases define how Near-RT RIC can update an existing EI job. Near-RT RIC provides updated EI job definition information. The reason for the update can be related to state of the EI type, EI job status and previously received EI job results.

### 7.5.2 Entities/resources involved in the use cases
1) Non-RT RIC: a) Handles EI jobs for available EI types. 2) Near-RT RIC: b) Updates EI job in Non-RT RIC that it has created.

### 7.5.3 Solutions

#### 7.5.3.1 Update EI job
Use case stage Evolution / specification <<Uses>> Related use Goal Near-RT RIC to update an existing EI job Actors and Roles Non-RT RIC as A1-EI Producer Near-RT RIC as A1-EI Consumer Assumptions The EI job identifier known to the Near-RT RIC corresponds to an existing EI job that was created by the Near-RT RIC Pre-conditions A1 interface is established, and the actors are authorized for using the A1-EI service. The EI job exists. Begins when Near-RT RIC initiates EI job update Step 1 (M) Near-RT RIC sends Update EI job request containing the updated EI job information Step 2 (M) Non-RT RIC sends Update EI job response Ends when EI job has been updated Exceptions Post-conditions EI job exists Traceability REQ-A1-EI-FUN6

### 7.5.4 Required data
For updating an EI job, the Near-RT RIC provides the EI job identifier and updated EI job information and/or callback URI for EI job status notifications.

## 7.6 Delete EI job use cases

### 7.6.1 Background and goal of the use cases
The delete EI job use cases define how Near-RT RIC can delete an EI job. The reason for the deletion can be related to the state of the EI type, EI job status and previously received EI job results.

### 7.6.2 Entities/resources involved in the use cases
1) Non-RT RIC: a) Handles EI jobs for available EI types. 2) Near-RT RIC: b) Deletes EI job in Non-RT RIC that it has created.

### 7.6.3 Solutions

#### 7.6.3.1 Delete EI job
Use case stage Evolution / specification <<Uses>> Related use Goal Near-RT RIC to delete an existing EI job Actors and Roles Non-RT RIC as A1-EI Producer Near-RT RIC as A1-EI Consumer Assumptions The EI job identifier known to the Near-RT RIC corresponds to an existing EI job that was created by the Near-RT RIC Pre-conditions A1 interface is established, and the actors are authorized for using the A1-EI service. The EI job exists. Begins when Near-RT RIC initiates EI job deletion Step 1 (M) Near-RT RIC sends Delete EI job request containing the EI job identifier Step 2 (M) Non-RT RIC sends Delete EI job response Ends when EI job has been deleted Exceptions Post-conditions EI job does not exist Traceability REQ-A1-EI-FUN6

### 7.6.4 Required data
For deleting an EI job, the Near-RT RIC provides the EI job identifier.

## 7.7 EI job status use cases

### 7.7.1 Background and goal of the use cases
The EI job status use cases define how Near-RT RIC can detect status, and changes in status, of an EI job. EI job status information is provided by the Non-RT RIC and is used by Near-RT RIC when managing EI jobs.

### 7.7.2 Entities/resources involved in the use cases
1) Non-RT RIC: a) Handles EI job and responds to queries for EI job status. b) Notifies Near-RT RIC about changes in EI job status. 2) Near-RT RIC: a) Requests EI job status. b) Receives notifications about changes in EI job status.

### 7.7.3 Solutions

#### 7.7.3.1 Query EI job status
Use case stage Evolution / specification <<Uses>> Related use Goal Near-RT RIC to retrieve EI job status information for an existing EI job Actors and Roles Non-RT RIC as A1-EI Producer Near-RT RIC as A1-EI Consumer Assumptions The EI job identifier known to the Near-RT RIC corresponds to an existing EI job that was created by the Near-RT RIC. Near-RT RIC has the schema for interpreting EI job status information. Pre-conditions A1 interface is established, and the actors are authorized for using the A1-EI service. The EI job identifier is known to the Near-RT RIC. Begins when Near-RT RIC initiates EI job status query Step 1 (M) Near-RT RIC sends Query EI job status request containing the EI job identifier of the EI job being queried for status Step 2 (M) Non-RT RIC sends Query EI job status response containing EI job status information Ends when Near-RT RIC has received the EI job status information Exceptions Post-conditions EI job status information is known to Near-RT RIC Traceability REQ-A1-EI-FUN9

#### 7.7.3.2 Notify EI job status
Use case stage Evolution / specification <<Uses>> Related use Goal Near-RT RIC to receive EI job status information for an existing EI job Actors and Roles Non-RT RIC as A1-EI Producer Near-RT RIC as A1-EI Consumer Assumptions Near-RT RIC has the schema for interpretating EI job status information. Pre-conditions A1 interface is established, and the actors are authorized for using the A1-EI service. A callback URI for EI job status notifications has been provided when creating and/or updating the EI job. Begins when Event occurs in Non-RT RIC related to the status of the EI job Step 1 (M) Non-RT RIC sends Notify EI job status request containing the EI job status information Ends when Near-RT RIC has received the EI job status information Exceptions Post-conditions EI job status information is known to Near-RT RIC Traceability REQ-A1-EI-FUN10

### 7.7.4 Required data
EI job status information includes the EI job status that is formulated based on, and validated against, the EI job status schema. The EI job status information includes indication if EI job is enabled or disabled.

## 7.8 EI delivery use cases

### 7.8.1 Background and goal of the use cases
The EI delivery use cases define how Non-RT RIC delivers EI job results to Near-RT RIC based on an EI job. Depending on the EI job definition, the EI job result can be delivered in one delivery message or in repeated delivery messages.

### 7.8.2 Entities/resources involved in the use cases
1) Non-RT RIC: a) Handles EI job and delivers EI job results. 2) Near-RT RIC: b) Receives EI job result related to an EI job it has created.

### 7.8.3 Solutions

#### 7.8.3.1 Deliver EI job result
Use case stage Evolution / specification <<Uses>> Related use Goal Non-RT RIC to deliver EI job result based on an EI job Actors and Roles Non-RT RIC as A1-EI Producer Near-RT RIC as A1-P Consumer Assumptions There is enrichment information based on the EI job definition that is to be delivered Pre-conditions A1 interface is established, and the actors are authorized for using the A1-EI service. EI job exists and is enabled. Begins when Non-RT RIC initiates EI job result delivery Step 1 (M) Non-RT RIC sends push request with EI job result to be delivered Step 2 (M) Near-RT RIC validates the received information and sends push response Ends when Near-RT RIC has received enrichment information Exceptions Post-conditions EI job result for the EI job has been delivered Traceability REQ-A1-EI-FUN11

#### 7.8.3.2 Deliver EI job results
Use case stage Evolution / specification <<Uses>> Related use Goal Non-RT RIC to deliver EI job results based on an EI job Actors and Roles Non-RT RIC as A1-EI Producer Near-RT RIC as A1-P Consumer Assumptions There is enrichment information based on the EI job definition that is to be delivered in more than one delivery message Pre-conditions A1 interface is established, and the actors are authorized for using the A1-EI service. EI job exists and is enabled. Begins when Non-RT RIC initiates EI job result delivery Step 1 – ref (M) Non-RT RIC delivers EI job result 7.8.3.1 Step 2 – loop (M) Non-RT RIC repeats Step 1 as per the EI job definition Ends when The EI job is completed or deleted. Exceptions Post-conditions EI job result for the EI job has been delivered Traceability REQ-A1-EI-FUN11

### 7.8.4 Required data
EI job result information contains the enrichment information requested in the EI job definition. It is formulated based on, and validated against, the EI job result schema. Use cases for A1 ML model management service – Near-RT RIC as A1-ML Consumer

## 8.1 Request AI/ML model training use cases

### 8.1.1 Background and goal of the use cases
The Request AI/ML model training use cases define how Near-RT RIC requests SMO/Non-RT RIC to train an AI/ML Model.

### 8.1.2 Entities/resources involved in the use cases
1) SMO/Non-RT RIC: a) Produces AI/ML model training services. b) Makes AI/ML model training services available to Near-RT RIC. 2) Near-RT RIC: b) Requests AI/ML model training from SMO/Non-RT RIC.

### 8.1.3 Solutions

#### 8.1.3.1 Request AI/ML model training
Use case stage Evolution / specification <<Uses>> Related use Goal Near-RT RIC requests training of an AI/ML model. SMO/Non-RT RIC as producer of AI/ML training services. Actors and Roles Non-RT RIC as A1-ML Producer. Near-RT RIC as A1-ML Consumer. AI/ML training services are produced by the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework or by rApps for the AI/ML model that training is requested for. Assumptions Near-RT RIC is aware of that SMO/Non-RT RIC can train the AI/ML model. A1 interface is established, and the actors are authorized for using the Pre-conditions A1-ML service. Begins when Near-RT RIC determines the need to train an AI/ML model Step 1 (M) Near-RT RIC sends Request training request Step 2 (M) Non-RT RIC sends Request training response Step 3 (M) SMO/Non-RT RIC trains the AI/ML model Non-RT RIC sends Notify AI/ML model training job status message Step 4 (M) containing the AI/ML model training job status and status-dependent information Ends when Near-RT RIC has the location of the trained AI/ML model Exceptions Post-conditions Trained AI/ML model is available to Near-RT RIC Traceability REQ-A1-ML-FUN2

### 8.1.4 Required data
Information for training (e.g. information about training dataset, model identifier, training criteria), and a notification URI to receive notification is provided by Near-RT RIC. SMO/Non-RT RIC provides the training job identifier and the information for training job status notification, including status- dependent information (e.g location of the trained model, or details in case of non-successful training).

## 8.2 AI/ML model training job status use cases

### 8.2.1 Background and goal of the use cases
This use cases define how Near-RT RIC queries AI/ML model training job status and receives notification about AI/ML model training job status change. AI/ML model training job status is provided by the SMO/Non-RT RIC.

### 8.2.2 Entities/resources involved in the use cases
1) Non-RT RIC: a) Responds to queries for AI/ML model training job status. b) Notifies Near-RT RIC about changes in AI/ML model training job status. 2) Near-RT RIC: a) Requests AI/ML model training job status. b) Receives notifications about changes in AI/ML model training job status.

### 8.2.3 Solutions

#### 8.2.3.1 Query AI/ML model training job status
Use case stage Evolution / specification <<Uses>> Related use Goal Near-RT RIC to retrieve AI/ML model training job status for an existing AI/ML model training job Actors and Roles Non-RT RIC as A1-ML Producer Near-RT RIC as A1-ML Consumer Assumptions The AI/ML model training job identifier known to the Near-RT RIC corresponds to an existing AI/ML model training job that was created based on the training request from Near-RT RIC. Pre-conditions A1 interface is established, and the actors are authorized for using the A1-ML service. The AI/ML model training job identifier is known to the Near-RT RIC. Begins when Near-RT RIC initiates AI/ML model training job status query Step 1 (M) Near-RT RIC sends Query AI/ML model training job status request containing the AI/ML model training job identifier of the AI/ML model training job being queried for status Step 2 (M) Non-RT RIC sends Query AI/ML model training job status response containing AI/ML model training job status Ends when Near-RT RIC has received the AI/ML model training job status Exceptions Post-conditions AI/ML model training job status is known to Near-RT RIC Traceability REQ-A1-ML-FUN3

#### 8.2.3.2 Notify AI/ML model training job status
Use case stage Evolution / specification <<Uses>> Related use Goal Near-RT RIC to receive AI/ML model training job status for an existing AI/ML model training job Actors and Roles Non-RT RIC as A1-ML Producer Near-RT RIC as A1-ML Consumer Assumptions Pre-conditions A1 interface is established, and the actors are authorized for using the A1-ML service. A callback URI for AI/ML model training job status notifications has been provided when creating the AI/ML model training job. Begins when Event occurs in SMO/Non-RT RIC related to the status of the AI/ML model training job Step 1 (M) Non-RT RIC sends Notify AI/ML model training job status message containing the AI/ML model training job status and optionally status- dependent information Ends when Near-RT RIC has received the AI/ML model training job status Exceptions Post-conditions AI/ML model training job status is known to Near-RT RIC Traceability REQ-A1-ML-FUN4

### 8.2.4 Required data
SMO/Non-RT RIC provides the training job id, the training job status, and optionally the status-dependent information.

## 8.3 Discover AI/ML model training capabilities use cases

### 8.3.1 Background and goal of the use cases
These use cases define how Near-RT RIC discovers AI/ML model training capabilities. AI/ML model training capabilities are provided by the Non-RT RIC.

### 8.3.2 Entities/resources involved in the use cases
1) SMO/Non-RT RIC: a) Provides information on AI/ML model training capabilities. b) Makes AI/ML model training capabilities available to Near-RT RIC. 2) Near-RT RIC: a) Discovers AI/ML model training capabilities.

### 8.3.3 Solutions

#### 8.3.3.1 Discover AI/ML model training capabilities
Use case stage Evolution / specification <<Uses>> Related use Goal Near-RT RIC is to discover AI/ML model training capabilities provided by Non-RT RIC. Actors and Roles Non-RT RIC as A1-ML Producer Near-RT RIC as A1-ML Consumer Assumptions AI/M model training capabilities are provided by the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework or by rApps that registered the AI/ML model training capabilities in the Non-RT RIC. Pre-conditions A1 interface is established, and the actors are authorized for using the A1-ML service. Begins when Near-RT RIC determines the need to discover AI/ML model training capabilities provided by Non-RT RIC Step 1 (M) Near-RT RIC sends Query AI/ML model training capabilities request for the information on the AI/ML model training capabilities by providing selection criteria Step 2 (M) Non-RT RIC looks up the information of the discovered AI/ML model training capabilities Step 3 (M) Non-RT RIC sends Query AI/ML model training capabilities response containing the information of AI/ML model training capabilities Ends when Near-RT RIC has received the AI/ML model training capabilities Exceptions Post-conditions AI/ML model training capabilities are known to Near-RT RIC Traceability REQ-A1-ML-FUN5

### 8.3.4 Required data
The selection criteria for discovery AI/ML model training capabilities is provided by Near-RT RIC. SMO/Non-RT RIC provides the AI/ML model training capabilities. Use cases for A1 ML model management service – Non- RT RIC as A1-ML Consumer

## 9.1 Request AI/ML model training use cases

### 9.1.1 Background and goal of the use cases
The Request AI/ML model training use cases define how Non-RT RIC requests Near-RT RIC to train an AI/ML Model.

### 9.1.2 Entities/resources involved in the use cases
1) Non-RT RIC: a) Requests AI/ML model training from Non-RT RIC. 2) Near-RT RIC: a) Produce AI/ML model training services. b) Makes AI/ML model training services available to Non-RT RIC.

### 9.1.3 Solutions

#### 9.1.3.1 Request AI/ML model training
Use case stage Evolution / specification <<Uses>> Related use Goal Non-RT RIC requests training of an AI/ML model. Near-RT RIC as producer of AI/ML training services and A1-ML Actors and Roles Producer. Non-RT RIC as A1-ML Consumer. Assumptions Non-RT RIC is aware of that Near-RT RIC can train the AI/ML model. A1 interface is established, and the actors are authorized for using the Pre-conditions A1-ML service. Begins when Non-RT RIC determines the need to train an AI/ML model Step 1 (M) Non-RT RIC sends Request training request Step 2 (M) Near-RT RIC sends Request training response Step 3 (M) Near-RT RIC trains the AI/ML model Near-RT RIC sends Notify AI/ML model training job status message Step 4 (M) containing the AI/ML model training job status and status-dependent information Ends when Non-RT RIC has the location of the trained AI/ML model Exceptions Post-conditions Trained AI/ML model is available to Non-RT RIC Traceability REQ-A1-ML-FUN2

### 9.1.4 Required data
Information for training (e.g. information about training dataset, model identifier, training criteria), and a notification URI to receive notification is provided by Non-RT RIC. Near-RT RIC provides the training job identifier and the information for training job status notification, including status- dependent information (e.g location of the trained model, or details in case of non-successful training).

## 9.2 AI/ML model training job status use cases

### 9.2.1 Background and goal of the use cases
These use cases define how Non-RT RIC queries AI/ML model training job status and receives notification about AI/ML model training job status change. AI/ML model training job status is provided by the Near-RT RIC.

### 9.2.2 Entities/resources involved in the use cases
1) Non-RT RIC: a) Requests AI/ML model training job status. b) Receives notifications about changes in AI/ML model training job status. 2) Near-RT RIC: a) Responds to queries for AI/ML model training job status. b) Notifies Non-RT RIC about changes in AI/ML model training job status.

### 9.2.3 Solutions

#### 9.2.3.1 Query AI/ML model training job status
Use case stage Evolution / specification <<Uses>> Related use Goal Non-RT RIC to retrieve AI/ML model training job status for an existing AI/ML model training job Actors and Roles Near-RT RIC as A1-ML Producer Non-RT RIC as A1-ML Consumer Assumptions The AI/ML model training job identifier known to the Non-RT RIC corresponds to an existing AI/ML model training job that was created based on the training request from Non-RT RIC. Pre-conditions A1 interface is established, and the actors are authorized for using the A1-ML service. The AI/ML model training job identifier is known to the Non-RT RIC. Begins when Non-RT RIC initiates AI/ML model training job status query Step 1 (M) Non-RT RIC sends Query AI/ML model training job status request containing the AI/ML model training job identifier of the AI/ML model training job being queried for status Step 2 (M) Near-RT RIC sends Query AI/ML model training job status response containing AI/ML model training job status Ends when Non-RT RIC has received the AI/ML model training job status Exceptions Post-conditions AI/ML model training job status is known to Non-RT RIC Traceability REQ-A1-ML-FUN3

#### 9.2.3.2 Notify AI/ML model training job status
Use case stage Evolution / specification <<Uses>> Related use Goal Non-RT RIC to receive AI/ML model training job status for an existing AI/ML model training job Actors and Roles Near-RT RIC as A1-ML Producer Non-RT RIC as A1-ML Consumer Assumptions Pre-conditions A1 interface is established, and the actors are authorized for using the A1-ML service. A callback URI for AI/ML model training job status notifications has been provided when creating the AI/ML model training job. Begins when Event occurs in Near-RT RIC related to the status of the AI/ML model training job Step 1 (M) Near-RT RIC sends Notify AI/ML model training job status message containing the AI/ML model training job status and optionally status- dependent information Ends when Non-RT RIC has received the AI/ML model training job status Exceptions Post-conditions AI/ML model training job status is known to Non-RT RIC Traceability REQ-A1-ML-FUN4

### 9.2.4 Required data
Near-RT RIC provides the training job id, the training job status, and optionally the status-dependent information (e.g location of the trained model, or details in case of non-successful training).


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG2.TS.Non-RT-RIC-ARCH-R004-v07.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG2.TS.Non-RT-RIC-ARCH-R004-v07.00"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1] and the following apply.

A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1].

Functions anchored inside the Non-RT RIC framework: Logical functions in the SMO framework that are part of the Non-RT RIC framework.

Functions anchored outside the Non-RT RIC framework: Logical functions in the SMO framework that are not part of the Non-RT RIC framework.

Non-RT RIC (O-RAN Non-Real-Time RAN Intelligent Controller): A logical function within SMO that enables non-real-time control and optimization of RAN elements and resources, AI/ML workflow including model training and updates, and policy-based guidance of applications/features in Near-RT RIC.

Near-RT RIC (O-RAN Near-Real-Time RAN Intelligent Controller): A logical function that enables near-real-time control and optimization of RAN elements and resources via fine-grained data collection and actions over E2 interface.

Non-anchored functions: Logical functions in the SMO framework that may or may not be part of the Non-RT RIC framework.

R1 Data Producer: An entity capable of producing data which can be consumed by other entities and of registering for discovery information about the types of these data in the context of the data management and exposure service.

R1 Data Consumer: An entity capable of consuming data originating from other entities in the context of the data management and exposure service.

R1 Service Producer: An entity capable of producing an R1 service which can be consumed by other entities.

R1 Service Consumer: An entity capable of consuming an R1 service produced by other entities.

AI/ML model: An algorithm that applies AI/ML techniques to produce model output data based on model input data.

AI/ML model training: A process to train an AI/ML model by learning the input/output relationship in a data driven manner and obtain a trained AI/ML model that can be used for inference.

AI/ML model training data: Data provided to an AI/ML model for the model training process.

AI/ML model parameter: Internal parameter of an AI/ML model that is learnt during AI/ML model training.

Hyperparameter: A parameter whose value controls the learning process and the topology of an AI/ML model and which influences the quality of the learning process.

AI/ML model inference: A process of using an AI/ML model to produce model output data based on model input data.

AI/ML model inference input data: Data provided to an AI/ML model for the inference process.

AI/ML model inference output data: Data generated by an AI/ML model during the inference process.

AI/ML model performance monitoring: A procedure that monitors the inference performance of a deployed AI/ML model.

rApp instance: An individual occurrence of a Non-RT RIC application running in the Non-RT RIC runtime environment.

rApp instance identifier: A unique identifier for each rApp instance, assigned by the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework during rApp registration.

DME type: Data type managed and exposed by the DME services and identified by a DME type identifier.

## 3.2 Symbols

Void.

## 3.3 Abbreviations

For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply.

- **API**: Application Programming Interface
- **AI**: Artificial Intelligence
- **CM**: Configuration Management
- **DME**: Data Management and Exposure
- **DMS**: Deployment Management Services
- **EI**: Enrichment Information
- **FCAPS**: Fault, Configuration, Accounting, Performance, Security
- **FM**: Fault Management
- **FOCOM**: Federated O-Cloud Orchestration and Management
- **HTTP**: Hypertext Transfer Protocol
- **IMS**: Infrastructure Management Services
- **ML**: Machine Learning
- **MOI**: Managed Object Instance
- **Near-RT RIC**: Near-Real-Time RAN Intelligent Controller
- **NFO**: Network Function Orchestration
- **Non-RT RIC**: Non-Real-Time RAN Intelligent Controller
- **OAM**: Operation, Administration and Maintenance
- **O-RU**: O-RAN Radio Unit
- **PM**: Performance Management
- **QoS**: Quality of Service
- **rAppId**: rApp instance Identifier
- **RAN**: Radio Access Network
- **SME**: Service Management and Exposure
- **SMO**: Service Management and Orchestration
- **TE&IV**: Topology Exposure and Inventory Management
- **UE**: User Equipment
- **URI**: Uniform Resource Identifier

# 4 Overview

## 4.1 Non-RT RIC in O-RAN overall architecture

Non-Real Time RAN Intelligent Controller (Non-RT RIC) is the functionality internal to the Service Management and Orchestration (SMO) framework in O-RAN overall architecture, as shown in O-RAN OAD[2].

- Non-RT RIC represents a subset of functionality of the SMO framework.
- Non-RT RIC supports intelligent RAN operation and optimization.
- Non-RT RIC logically terminates the A1 interface, and it provides policy-based guidance and enrichment information to the Near-RT RICs. AI/ML model management on the A1 interface is not specified in the present document.
- Non-RT RIC can access other SMO framework functionalities, for example influencing what is carried across the O1, open fronthaul M-plane and O2 interface.

## 4.2 Void

# 5 Requirements

## 5.1 Requirements for the Non-RT RIC framework

| [REQ-NRTFWK-FUN1] | The Non-RT RIC framework shall support functionality to register services along with their Service Producers in the Non-RT RIC and SMO. |
| --- | --- |

| [REQ-NRTFWK-FUN2] | The Non-RT RIC framework shall support functionality to allow Service Consumers to discover services. |
| --- | --- |

| [REQ-NRTFWK-FUN3] | The Non-RT RIC framework shall support functionality to allow Service Consumers to subscribe/unsubscribe notifications about newly registered/updated/deregistered services. |
| --- | --- |

| [REQ-NRTFWK-FUN4] | The Non-RT RIC framework shall support functionality to notify subscribed Service Consumers about newly registered/updated/deregistered services. |
| --- | --- |

| [REQ-NRTFWK-FUN5] | The Non-RT RIC framework shall support functionality to authenticate Service Consumers, if such functionality is not provided by the SMO framework. |
| --- | --- |

| [REQ-NRTFWK-FUN6] | The Non-RT RIC framework shall support functionality to authorize Service Consumers to access services, if such functionality is not provided by the SMO framework. |
| --- | --- |

| [REQ-NRTFWK-FUN7] | The Non-RT RIC framework shall support functionality to send messages to and receive messages from the Near-RT RIC via the A1 interface. |
| --- | --- |

| [REQ-NRTFWK-FUN8] | The Non-RT RIC framework shall support functionality to allow Data Consumers (including rApps) to discover available DME types, if such functionality is not supported in the SMO framework. |
| --- | --- |

| [REQ-NRTFWK-FUN9] | The Non-RT RIC framework shall support functionality to allow Data Producers (including rApps) to register their DME types production capabilities, if such functionality is not supported in the SMO framework. |
| --- | --- |

| [REQ-NRTFWK-FUN10] | The Non-RT RIC framework shall support functionality to allow Data Consumers (including rApps) to subscribe/request instances of registered DME types for consumption, if such functionality is not supported in the SMO framework. |
| --- | --- |

| [REQ-NRTFWK-FUN10a] | The Non-RT RIC framework shall support functionality to allow Data Producers (including rApps) to offer instances of registered DME types for collection and storage, if such functionality is not supported in the SMO framework. |
| --- | --- |

| [REQ-NRTFWK-FUN11] | The Non-RT RIC framework shall support functionality to train AI/ML models, if such functionality is not supported in the SMO framework. |
| --- | --- |

| [REQ-NRTFWK-FUN12] | The Non-RT RIC framework shall support functionality to allow Service Consumers to store and retrieve trained AI/ML models, if such functionality is not supported in the SMO framework |
| --- | --- |

| [REQ-NRTFWK-FUN13] | The Non-RT RIC framework shall support functionality to monitor the performance for deployed AI/ML models in runtime, if such functionality is not supported in the SMO framework |
| --- | --- |

| [REQ-NRTFWK-FUN14] | The Non-RT RIC framework may support functionality to collect external enrichment information from external enrichment information sources. |
| --- | --- |

| [REQ-NRTFWK-FUN15] | The Non-RT RIC framework may support functionality to retrieve trained AI/ML models (and metadata) from external AI/ML service providers. |
| --- | --- |

| [REQ-NRTFWK-FUN16] | The Non-RT RIC framework may support functionality to allow external sources to inject RAN intents, suspend/resume/check rApps, and configure/check/initiate/suspend/resume/terminate AI/ML training processes. |
| --- | --- |

| [REQ-NRTFWK-FUN17] | The Non-RT RIC framework shall support functionality to consolidate the alarm information from multiple managed entities, if such functionality is not supported in the SMO framework. |
| --- | --- |

| [REQ-NRTFWK-FUN18] | The Non-RT RIC framework shall support functionality to store alarm acknowledgement state for alarms originating from managed entities that do not support alarm acknowledgement state change, if such functionality is not supported in the SMO framework. |
| --- | --- |

| [REQ-NRTFWK-FUN19] | The Non-RT RIC framework may have the capability to identify the potentially applicable Near-RT RIC(s) for A1 policy creation if the Near-RT RIC identifier is absent in the create A1 policy request received from the rApp. |
| --- | --- |

> NOTE:	Selection of potentially applicable Near-RT RIC(s) can be based, e.g., on the content of the received create A1 policy request or on configuration.

| [REQ-NRTFWK-FUN20] | The Non-RT RIC framework shall support the functionality to collect trace data, from multiple managed entities, if such functionality is not supported in the SMO framework. |
| --- | --- |

| [REQ-NRTFWK-FUN21] | The Non-RT RIC framework shall support the functionality to collect analytical data from the Near-RT RIC, if such functionality is not supported in the SMO framework. |
| --- | --- |

| [REQ-NRTFWK-FUN22] | The Non-RT RIC framework shall support functionality to allow Data Consumers (including rApps) to consume Deployment Telemetry metrics collected by the O2-related functions. |
| --- | --- |

| [REQ-NRTFWK-FUN23] | The Non-RT RIC framework shall support functionality to allow Data Consumers (including rApps) to consume Infrastructure Telemetry metrics collected by the O2-related functions. |
| --- | --- |

| [REQ-NRTFWK-FUN24] | The Non-RT RIC framework shall support functionality that allows managing the configuration of an rApp, if such functionality is not supported in the SMO framework. |
| --- | --- |

| [REQ-NRTFWK-FUN25] | The Non-RT RIC framework shall support functionality that allows obtaining, from an rApp, information about that rApp's performance, if such functionality is not supported in the SMO framework. |
| --- | --- |

| [REQ-NRTFWK-FUN26] | The Non-RT RIC framework shall support functionality that allows obtaining, from an rApp, fault information related to that rApp, if such functionality is not supported in the SMO framework. |
| --- | --- |

| [REQ-NRTFWK-FUN27] | The Non-RT RIC framework shall support functionality that allows obtaining, from an rApp, logging information reported by the rApp, if such functionality is not supported in the SMO framework. |
| --- | --- |

| [REQ-NRTFWK-FUN28] | The Non-RT RIC framework shall support functionality to store log information received from rApps, if such functionality is not supported in the SMO framework. |
| --- | --- |

| [REQ-NRTFWK-FUN29] | The Non-RT RIC framework shall support functionality that allows an rApp to obtain, over the R1 interface, TE&IV information based on the requirements defined in O-RAN TE&IV [12], if such functionality is not supported in the SMO framework. |
| --- | --- |

| [REQ-NRTFWK-FUN30] | The Non-RT RIC framework shall support functionality that allows registration and deregistration of an AI/ML model, if such functionality is not supported in the SMO framework. |
| --- | --- |

| [REQ-NRTFWK-FUN31] | The Non-RT RIC framework shall support functionality that allows the discovery of registered AI/ML models, if such functionality is not supported in the SMO framework. |
| --- | --- |

| [REQ-NRTFWK-FUN32] | The Non-RT RIC framework shall support functionality that allows the deployment of an AI/ML model, if such functionality is not supported in the SMO framework. |
| --- | --- |

| [REQ-NRTFWK-FUN33] | The Non-RT RIC framework shall support functionality to obtain the performance  and fault information related to R1 service requests and responses, if such functionality is not supported in the SMO framework. |
| --- | --- |

| [REQ-NRTFWK-FUN34] | The Non-RT RIC framework shall support functionality to obtain logging and tracing information related to R1 service requests and responses, if such functionality is not supported in the SMO framework. |
| --- | --- |

| [REQ-NRTFWK-FUN35] | The Non-RT RIC framework shall support functionality to obtain the performance and fault information related to A1 service requests and responses, if such functionality is not supported in the SMO framework. |
| --- | --- |

| [REQ-NRTFWK-FUN36] | The Non-RT RIC framework shall support functionality to obtain logging and tracing information related to A1 service requests and responses, if such functionality is not supported in the SMO framework. |
| --- | --- |

| [REQ-NRTFWK-FUN37] | The Non-RT RIC framework shall support functionality to store logging and tracing information regarding A1 and R1 service requests and responses, if such functionality is not supported in the SMO framework. |
| --- | --- |

| [REQ-NRTFWK-FUN38] | The Non-RT RIC framework shall support functionality to stream logging and tracing information regarding A1 and R1 service requests and responses, if such functionality is not supported in the SMO framework. |
| --- | --- |

In addition, the security requirements for the Non-RT RIC specified in O-RAN SRS [10], clause 5.1.2 apply.

## 5.2 Requirements for R1

O-RAN WG2 UCR [3] specifies R1 interface functional requirements.

## 5.3 Requirements for rApps

The security requirements for rApps specified in O-RAN SRS [10], clause 5.1.2 apply.

# 6 Non-RT RIC Architecture

## 6.1 General

Non-RT RIC is comprised of:

- Non-RT RIC Framework – Functionality internal to the SMO Framework that:
- Logically terminates the A1 interface to the Near-RT RIC.
- Exposes set of R1 services to Non-RT RIC Applications (rApps).
- Non-RT RIC Applications (rApps) – Applications that leverage the functionalities available in the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework to provide value added services related to RAN operation and optimization. The scope of rApps includes, but is not limited to, RAN configuration management, data analytics, producing training services, generating A1 policies, and providing enrichment information.
The following figure depicts the reference architecture of the Non-RT RIC as part of the SMO framework.

There are three categories of logical functions in Non-RT RIC framework and SMO framework:

- Functions anchored inside the Non-RT RIC framework, which are indicated in solid blue box in figure 6.1-1.
- Functions anchored outside the Non-RT RIC framework, which are indicated in solid orange box in figure 6.1-1.
- Non-anchored functions, which are indicated in dashed line box in figure 6.1-1.
The categories are defined in clause 3.1. The definitions make no assumption on the mandatory or optional qualifier of the functions being anchored or non-anchored.

The decomposition of logical functions is not mandatory, and it is up to vendor’s implementation.

> NOTE 1:	There might be other SMO framework functions or other Non-RT RIC framework functions which may provide additional services exposed via the R1 interface or provide EI for A1 enrichment information services. These are not specified in the present document.
> NOTE 2:	Other SMO framework functions may be defined by other O-RAN WGs and the potential impacts on Non-RT RIC architecture are not specified in the present document.
> NOTE 3:	Whether the A1-related functions are anchored functions or not is not specified in the present document.
> NOTE 4:	Among other functionalities, the Other SMO framework functions also realize OAM functionality related to RAN-specific network slicing.
Service management and exposure functions enable (not limited to): service registration, service discovery, service notification, authorization, authentication, communication support, and optional bootstrap.

The rApp management functions enable the management of rApps within the context of the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework. Such functions enable (not limited to) the configuration of rApps, providing access to fault and performance related information from rApps, and facilitation of rApp logging functionality. Through the use of R1, rApp management functions can provide access to these functionalities in a consistent manner to all rApps. Such consistency is particularly valuable as rApps can be provided independently by different rApp vendors.

The implementation-specific interfaces, which are indicated by the dashed line in figure 6.1-1, allow the logical functions in SMO/Non-RT RIC framework to communicate with each other by means outside the scope of the present document.

## 6.2 R1 interface

The R1 interface is a service-based interface via which the R1 services can be consumed and produced.

The R1 services are a collection of services produced and consumed by logical functions in the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework or by rApps.

The invoker of an R1 service is referred to as R1 Service Consumer and the provider of an R1 service is referred to as R1 Service Producer. R1 Service Consumers can be rApps and/or SMO/Non-RT RIC framework functions. Further, R1 Service Producers can be rApps and/or SMO/Non-RT RIC framework functions.

The R1 termination enables the R1 Service Producers and R1 Service Consumers to exchange messages via the R1 interface.

An rApp as well as a SMO/Non-RT RIC framework function can produce zero or more R1 Services, likewise an rApp as well as a SMO/Non-RT RIC framework function can consume zero or more R1 Services.

The R1 termination enables the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework and the rApps to exchange messages via the R1 interface, assuming that the R1 service APIs and the rApps are registered with the R1 service management and exposure functions.

The communication support provided by the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework allows R1 Service Producers and R1 Service Consumers to exchange messages related to the R1 services. Different deployment options are possible, such as:

- Plain connectivity that enables the point-to-point exchange of service-related messages between R1 Service Producers and R1 Service Consumers e.g. over HTTP.
- Service meshes that enable the combination of discovery of R1 service API endpoints with the routing of service-related messages between R1 Service Consumers and R1 Service Producers.
- Message buses that enable R1 Service Producers to send service-related messages to zero or more R1 Service Consumers simultaneously.
- API gateways that enable routing of service-related messages between R1 Service Consumers and R1 Service Producers and that may enforce authorization policies.

# 7 R1 Service Definitions

## 7.1 General description

A service is a set of capabilities related to each other, offered by a Service Producer to Service Consumer(s) for consumption. The capabilities within a service typically have a common purpose and can be inter-dependent. In order to improve re-usability, the mutual coupling across any two services is usually avoided or minimized. Services are produced by Service Producers and consumed by Service Consumers through service endpoints (typically APIs). The interoperability of Service Producers and Service Consumers is ensured by support of the related service endpoints, but it does not depend on the decomposition of logical functions. Being a Service Producer and/or a Service Consumer is a role of an rApp or of a logical function in the SMO or the Non-RT RIC framework (see clause 6).

The set of R1 services which can be accessed via the R1 interface includes (but is not limited to):

- Service management and exposure services, which include service registration and service discovery services, authentication services, authorization services and communication support services. The service management and exposure services support extensibility of the set of R1 services.
- Data management and exposure services, which deliver data created or collected by Data Producers to Data Consumers according to their needs.
- A1-related services, which provide access to functionality related to A1.
- AI/ML workflow services, which provide access to AI and ML workflow.
- RAN OAM-related services, which provide access to RAN OAM functionality related to the O1 and open fronthaul M-plane interfaces, and to the OAM functionality related to RAN-specific network slicing in the SMO framework.
- O2-related services, which provide access to functionality related to O2.
- rApp management services, which provide functionality for managing rApps.
- TE&IV-related services, which provide access to topology and inventory data.
> NOTE:	A part of the services listed above may be used on other O-RAN-defined interfaces as well.

## 7.2 Service management and exposure services

The following service management and exposure services are defined:

- Bootstrap service (optional): It enables an rApp to discover the endpoints of the service management and exposure service.
- Registration of services: It allows to register services which includes storing and maintaining profile about each service. It further allows to deregister services and delete the service profile.
- Discovery of services: It supports service discovery for a Service Consumer to find services based on its selection criteria if it is provided. Further, based on the subscription, it notifies its Service Consumers about the newly registered/updated/deregistered services.
- Authentication: It allows the authentication of a Service Producer and/or a Service Consumer.
- Authorisation: It supports to grant Service Consumers access to registered R1 services and to allow Service Producers to produce R1 services.
- Communication support (optional): It supports interaction of R1 Service Consumers and Producers with each other.
> NOTE:	Communication support is not specified in the present document.

## 7.3 Data management and exposure services

The following data management and exposure services are defined:

- Data registration service: Data registration allows Data Producers to communicate information about the DME types that they are able to produce. Data Producers need to be authorized to register DME types.
- Data discovery service: Data discovery allows Data Consumers to discover available DME types in the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework. Data Consumers need to be authorized to discover DME types.
- Data subscription service: Using the subscribe data procedure, it allows Data Consumers to consume data continuously from the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework and it further allows the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework to collect data continuously from Data Producers.
- Data request service: Using the request data procedure, it allows Data Consumers to consume data once from the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework and it further allows the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework to collect data once from Data Producers.
- Data delivery services: These allow to deliver data for consumption from the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework to Data Consumers. They further allow to deliver data for collection from Data Producers to the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework.
- Data offer service: It allows a Data Producer to trigger the collection of a data instance by the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework from this Data Producer.
- Data processing services (optional): These allow Service Consumers to access data processing in the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework.
> NOTE:	Data processing services are not specified in the present document.
Data Producers (e.g., rApps) communicate information about the DME types that they produce in data registration. Data Producers can communicate constraints related to the authorization of the Data Consumers to discover registered DME types and access produced data. Data Producers communicate information about how the data are collected by the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework (e.g., collection periodicity, event-trigger conditions, push or pull, etc.).

Data Consumers (e.g., rApps) communicate information about the DME types that they want to discover. Data Consumers subscribe/request data from the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework for consumption with specific DME type, periodicity, and delivery (or reporting) method, scope, etc. The delivery (or reporting) method contains information about how the subscribed/requested data are delivered from the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework (e.g., delivery periodicity, event-trigger conditions, push or pull, etc.).

A Data Producer that intends to trigger the collection of a data instance that it produces defines a data offer by providing to the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework information about the data instance it intends to produce. The information about the data offer includes the properties of the data instance and the supported delivery services. The collection of the data instance starts when the data offer creation has been confirmed by the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework.

SMO/Non-RT RIC framework collects data produced by Data Producers. SMO/Non-RT RIC framework delivers data to Data Consumers for consumption. SMO/Non-RT RIC framework stores collected data. If the collection of the data was triggered by a data subscription or data request, data storage is optional. SMO/Non-RT RIC framework can optionally process collected and/or stored data (e.g., quantization, normalization, labelling, correlation, etc.).

## 7.4 A1-related Services

### 7.4.1 A1 policy management services

A1 policy management services provided by the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework enable:

- Discovery of supported A1 policy types.
- rApp queries supported A1 policy types.
- rApp subscribes/unsubscribes notification for changes of supported A1 policy types. SMO/Non-RT RIC framework notifies the subscribed events (e.g., new policy types are added into the supporting list, existing policy types are removed, etc.).
- Creating, updating, querying, and deleting A1 policies.
- rApp creates A1 policies in the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework. SMO/Non-RT RIC framework assigns unique policy identifiers for created A1 policies.
- rApp updates A1 policies created by itself using assigned policy identifiers.
- rApp queries A1 policies in the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework.
- rApp deletes A1 policies created by itself using assigned policy identifiers.
- Querying enforcement status of A1 policies.
- rApp queries enforcement status of A1 policies using policy identifiers, if identifiers are known to the rApp.
- rApp can query enforcement status of A1 policies created by itself.
- rApp can query enforcement status of A1 policies created by other rApp with SMO/Non-RT RIC framework’s authorization.
- Subscription to event notifications related to A1 policies.
- rApp subscribes/unsubscribes notifications for the creation, modification, and deletion of A1 policies created by other rApps. SMO/Non-RT RIC framework notifies rApp of the subscribed events (e.g., a new A1 policy is created, an A1 policy is updated, an A1 policy is removed, etc.), if the rApp is authorized by the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework to receive notifications related to A1 policies created by other rApps.
- rApp subscribes/unsubscribes notifications for changes in enforcement status of A1 policies. SMO/Non-RT RIC framework notifies rApp of the subscribed events. If the subscription request applies to the A1 policies created by other rApps, rApp needs authorization from the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework to receive notifications for enforcement status changes of A1 policies created by other rApps.

### 7.4.2 A1 enrichment information related services

A1 enrichment information related services produced by the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework enable:

- Registration/deregistration of EI types.
- rApp registers EI types of which data it can produce as the source for the EI job results delivered over the A1 interface.
- rApp deregisters EI types it has registered previously.
> NOTE:	EI types cannot per definition, see O-RAN A1AP [5], be updated. If a type definition is modified, the rApp needs to register a new EI type and may deregister the previous EI type.

### 7.4.3 A1 ML model management services

A1 ML model management services provided by the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework enable:

For training services exposed by Near-RT RIC via A1 interface:

- Discovery of AI/ML model training capabilities exposed by Near-RT RIC via A1 interface.
- rApp queries supported AI/ML model training capabilities.
- Request of AI/ML model training exposed by Near-RT RIC via A1 interface.
- rApp requests training an AI/ML model.
- Querying the status of AI/ML model training exposed by Near-RT RIC via A1 interface.
- rApp queries status of AI/ML model training, if identifiers are known to the rApp.
For training services provided by an AI/ML training service producer in SMO/Non-RT RIC and exposed via A1 interface:

- Discovery of an AI/ML training service producer’s AI/ML model training capabilities.
- an AI/ML training service producer exposes its AI/ML model training capabilities, and the AI/ML model training capabilities can be queried by Near-RT RIC queries
- an AI/ML training service producer sends notification for changes of AI/ML model training capabilities, and the notification can be subscribed/unsubscribed by the Near-RT RIC
- Request of AI/ML model training to be trained by an AI/ML training service producer in SMO/Non-RT RIC.
- an AI/ML training service producer trains an AI/ML model, the AI/ML model training can be requested by the Near-RT RIC
- Querying the status of AI/ML model training in SMO/Non-RT RIC.
- an AI/ML training service producer can provide the status of AI/ML model training, the status of AI/ML model training can be queried by the Near-RT RIC

## 7.5 RAN OAM-related Services

RAN OAM-related services produced by the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework enable rApps:

- To obtain information about alarms related to the network elements.
- To obtain performance information related to the network elements, including but not limited to information related to network slicing.
- To obtain the current configuration of the network elements, including but not limited to information related to network slicing.
- To provision changes to the configuration of the network elements, including but not limited to information related to network slicing.
- To obtain trace information related to the network.
- To obtain additional information related to the network elements, including but not limited to information related to network slicing.
Here, the network elements refer to the E2 nodes, O-RU and the Near-RT RIC. The RAN OAM-related services provide access to OAM functionality for (i) the E2 nodes and the Near-RT RIC via the O1 interface, (ii) the O-RUs via the open fronthaul M-plane interface, and (iii) RAN-specific network slicing in the SMO framework.

## 7.6 O2-related services

O2-related services produced by the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework enable rApps:

- To obtain information related to O-Cloud infrastructure management services such as,
- Infrastructure inventory.
- Infrastructure monitoring.
- Infrastructure provisioning.
- Infrastructure lifecycle management.
- Infrastructure software management.
- To obtain information related to O-Cloud deployment management services such as,
- Deployment inventory.
- Deployment monitoring.
- Deployment lifecycle management.
- To provision changes of the configuration of the O-Cloud.
- To obtain additional information related to the O-Cloud.
> NOTE:	Details about O-Cloud deployment management services, provisioning of configuration changes and additional related information are not specified in the present document.

## 7.7 AI/ML workflow services

The following AI/ML workflow services are defined:

- AI/ML training services: These services allow an AI/ML training service Consumer to request training of an AI/ML model by specifying the training requirements (e.g. required data, model, validation criteria, etc). AI/ML training services can be produced by the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework or by rApps.
- AI/ML model management and exposure services: Services are produced by the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework and enable
- AI/ML model registration/deregistration: It allows an rApp to register, update the registration of, and deregister the AI/ML model that it provides. An rApp needs to be authorised to register, update the registration of, or deregister the AI/ML model it provides.
- AI/ML model discovery: It allows an rApp to discover registered AI/ML model(s) based on its selection criteria if it is provided. An rApp needs to be authorised to discover registered AI/ML models.
- AI/ML model change subscription: It allows an rApp to subscribe and receive notifications of changes of a registered AI/ML model.
- AI/ML model storage: It allows an rApp to request the storage of an AI/ML model it registered and the AI/ML model associated information.
- AI/ML model training capability registration/deregistration (optional service): It allows an AI/ML training service Producer to register/update/deregister its capability of training an AI/ML model.
- AI/ML model training capability query (optional service): It allows an rApp to query registered AI/ML model training capability based on its selection criteria if it is provided. An rApp needs to be authorised to query registered AI/ML model training capability.
- AI/ML model retrieve: It allows an rApp to request model location details of a specific version of a registered AI/ML model.
- AI/ML model performance monitoring services: These services allow an authorised AI/ML performance monitoring service Consumer to request monitoring the performance of a deployed AI/ML model. The AI/ML model performance monitoring service can be produced by the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework or by rApps. The performance information of an AI/ML model is produced by the rApp within which the model is deployed or by AI/ML model inference service Producer performing the model inference.
- AI/ML model inference services: These services allow an rApp to request and or to cancel the inference for a registered AI/ML model. The rApp needs to be authorised to request inference for registered AI/ML models. AI/ML inference services can be produced by the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework or by rApps.
> NOTE 1: 	Void.
> NOTE 2: 	An authorized rApp can request deployment of a specific version of a registered AI/ML model.

## 7.8 rApp management services

The following rApp management services are defined:

- rApp registration service: This service allows rApp to register with the rApp management services Producer.
- rApp configuration service: This service allows rApp configuration settings to be set and read.
- rApp performance service: This service allows an rApp to report on the performance of the rApp itself or its communication with other entities.
- rApp fault service: This service allows an rApp to report faults that are related to the rApp itself or to its communication with other entities.
- rApp log information service: This service allows an rApp to convey the log information that the rApp wishes to report.

## 7.9 TE&IV-related services

TE&IV related services produced by the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework enable rApps to:

- Query across all the available domains for both Topology Entity and Topology Relationship
- Query specific Topology Entity instance(s) of a specific Topology Entity type,
- Query all relationships for a specific Topology Entity instance of a Topology Entity type,
- Query all the available Topology Relationship types,
- Query a specific Topology Relationship instance of a Topology Relationship type.
For more information related to domains, Topology Entity types, Topology Relationship, Topology Relationship instance please refer to [14], clause 4.3.

# 8 Non-RT RIC Function Definitions

## 8.1 General description

In the Non-RT RIC architecture in clause 6, R1 services are provided by a collection of logical functions in SMO/Non-RT RIC framework or rApps. These logical functions, as defined in clause 6, include (but are not limited to):

- Service management and exposure functions: These functions produce service management and exposure services.
- Data management and exposure functions: These functions produce data management and exposure services.
- AI/ML workflow functions: These functions produce AI/ML workflow services.
- rApp management functions: These functions produce rApp management services.
- A1-related functions: These functions produce A1-related services.
- RAN OAM-related functions: These functions produce RAN OAM-related services.
- O2-related functions: These functions produce O2-related services.
- R1 termination: It enables the R1 Service Producers and R1 Service Consumers to exchange messages via the R1 interface.
- A1 termination: It enables the Non-RT RIC framework and the Near-RT RIC to exchange messages over the A1 interface.
- O1 termination: It enables the SMO framework to exchange messages with the Near-RT RIC/E2 nodes over the O1 interface.
- Open fronthaul M-plane termination: It enables the SMO framework to exchange messages with the O-RUs over the open fronthaul M-plane interface.
- O2 termination: It enables the SMO framework to exchange messages with the O-Cloud over the O2 interface.
- Other SMO functions: Among other functionalities, these functions also offer RAN-specific slice management functionality.
- External terminations: These functions enable the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework to exchange messages with external entities over interfaces outside the scope of O-RAN.
> NOTE:	The SMO functions offering the slice management services and whether these shall be considered as R1 services is for future study.

## 8.2 Service management and exposure functions

### 8.2.1 Service registration and discovery functions

The service registration and discovery functions are logical functions that produce the service registration, service deregistration, service discovery, service notification, communication support services and optional bootstrap services specified in clause 7.2.

Examples of Service Producers include: service management and exposure services producer, A1-related services producer, etc. Examples of Service Consumers are rApps. It is noted that rApps can also be Service Producers and logical functions can also be Service Consumers.

A Service Producer or an entity acting on its behalf can send a service registration request to the service registration and discovery functions to register services. A Service Consumer can either send a service discovery request to the service registration and discovery functions to discover the services and the endpoints on which they can be consumed, or it can send a service request directly if it receives a service notification with the related information on the service and on the endpoints on which it can be consumed.

### 8.2.2 Authentication and authorisation functions

The authentication and authorisation functions are logical functions that produce the authentication and authorisation services specified in clause 7.2.

## 8.3 Data management and exposure functions

The data management and exposure functions are logical functions that produce the data registration and discovery service, the data request and subscription service, the data offer service and optional data processing services specified in clause 7.3. They further initiate data collection by consuming the data request and subscription service. Additionally, they produce and consume the data delivery services in order to obtain collected data from Data Producers and to allow Data Consumers to obtain data from the data management and exposure functions for consumption.

The data management and exposure functions track DME types that are registered. They match data discovery requests against such DME types. If the DME type is registered, the data management and exposure functions identify a valid Data Producer, which can be a previously registered Data Producer rApp or other Data Producers in the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework (e.g., RAN OAM-related functions). The data management and exposure functions optionally provide data processing functionality on collected data (e.g., quantization, normalization, correlation, labelling, etc.).

When Data Consumers use the subscribe data procedure to initiate continuous data consumption, the data management and exposure functions check the availability of the subscribed data after receiving a data subscription request from a Data Consumer. If the subscribed data are already being collected, the data management and exposure functions deliver the data to the Data Consumer when they become available. If the data are not already being collected and a valid Data Producer is identified, the data management and exposure functions initiate data collection to obtain data from the identified Data Producer. When the collected data become available, the data management and exposure functions deliver the data to the Data Consumer.

When Data Consumers use the request data procedure to initiate one-time data consumption, the data management and exposure functions check the availability of the required data after receiving a one-time data request from a Data Consumer. If the requested data are available, the data management and exposure functions deliver the data to the Data Consumer. If the data are not available and a valid Data Producer is identified, the data management and exposure functions initiate data collection to obtain data from the identified Data Producer. When the collected data become available, the data management and exposure functions deliver the data to the Data Consumer.

When a Data Producer uses the create data offer procedure to trigger data collection, the data management and exposure functions set up an endpoint for receiving data availability notifications or push data messages (depending on the delivery method chosen) and confirm the creation of the data offer to the Data Producer. Data collection starts once the data offer creation is confirmed and proceeds until the data offer is terminated by the Data Producer or by the data management and exposure functions. The data management and exposure functions store the collected data for later consumption.

The use of a data repository for storing data during data collection is optional if data collection was triggered by a data request or data subscription from a Data Consumer. It is required if data collection was triggered by a data offer from a Data Producer. Data can be optionally pre-processed before being stored and can be optionally post-processed after being read.

> NOTE:	Instead of storing data in a data repository, data management and exposure functions can broker data from Data Producers to Data Consumers.

## 8.4 A1-related functions

### 8.4.1 A1 policy functions

The logical functions that produce the A1 policy management services which are exposed to rApps via the R1 interface are called the “A1 policy functions". They realize the following functionalities:

- Producing A1 policy management services which are exposed to rApps via the R1 interface.
- The corresponding service definition can be found in clause 7.4.1.
- Performing A1 policy conflict mitigation.
- If more than one policy generation rApps set contradicting A1 policy statements to the same or overlapping policy scope identifiers, A1 policy function decides to reject the creation/modification request of one or more A1 policies or to temporarily suspend the enforcement of one or more A1 policies.
- Interfacing with Near-RT RICs through A1 termination
- A1 policy function determines the Near-RT RIC for generated A1 policies.
- A1 policy function sends A1 policy creation, update, and deletion requests to the Near-RT RIC.
- A1 policy function queries supported A1 policy types of connected Near-RT RICs.
- A1 policy function queries enforcement status of A1 policies.
- A1 policy function receives A1 policy feedback from the Near-RT RIC.

### 8.4.2 A1 enrichment information functions

“A1 enrichment information functions” produce the A1 enrichment information related services which are exposed to rApps via the R1 interface. The corresponding services definition can be found in clause 7.4.2. “A1 enrichment information functions” also produce the A1-EI service which is exposed to Near-RT RICs via the A1 interface. The corresponding service definition can be found in the A1 interface specification, see references in clause 9.1. “A1 enrichment information functions” collect data that are to be delivered as EI job results to Near-RT RICs via the data management and exposure functions.

> NOTE:	The data delivered as EI job results can be produced by rApps or by external enrichment information sources.
“A1 enrichment information functions” realize the following functionalities:

- Handling of EI types registered by rApps via the R1 interface.
- Handling of EI jobs created by the Near-RT RICs via the A1 interface.
- Collecting data that are to be delivered as EI job results to the Near-RT RICs via the A1 interface.
- Interfacing with Near-RT RICs through A1 termination.

### 8.4.3 A1 ML model management functions

- A1 ML model management functions produce the A1 ML model management services which are exposed to rApps via the R1 interface. The corresponding services definition can be found in clause 7.4.3. A1 ML model management functions also produce the A1-ML service which is exposed to Near-RT RICs via the A1 interface.
- A1 ML model management functions realize the following functionalities:
- Non-RT RIC can discover the AI/ML model training capabilities exposed by Near-RT RIC.
- Non-RT RIC can request the AI/ML model training services exposed by Near-RT RIC.
- Non-RT RIC can query the status of AI/ML model training job requested by Non-RT RIC.
- Near-RT RIC can discover the AI/ML model training capabilities exposed by Non-RT RIC via A1 interface.
- Near-RT RIC can  request the AI/ML model training services exposed by Non-RT RIC via A1 interface.
- Near-RT RIC can query the status of AI/ML model training job requested by Near-RT RIC via A1 interface.

## 8.5 RAN OAM-related functions

The logical functions that produce the RAN OAM-related services which are exposed to rApps via the R1 interface are called the “RAN OAM-related functions”. They realize the following functionalities:

- Producing RAN OAM-related services which are exposed to rApps via the R1 interface.
- The corresponding service definition can be found in clause 7.5.
- Performing CM conflict mitigation.
- Interfacing with Near-RT RICs and E2 nodes through O1 termination.
- RAN OAM-related functions receive fault notifications and obtain alarm list from Near-RT RICs and E2 nodes.
- RAN OAM-related functions provision configuration changes to Near-RT RICs and E2 nodes.
- RAN OAM-related functions collect performance data from Near-RT RICs and E2 nodes.
- RAN OAM-related functions collect trace data from E2 nodes.
- Interfacing with the O-RUs through open fronthaul M-plane termination.
- RAN OAM-related functions receive fault notifications and obtain alarm list from the O-RUs.
- RAN OAM-related functions provision configuration changes to the O-RUs.
- RAN OAM-related functions collect performance data from the O-RUs.
- Interfacing with the RAN-specific slice management functionality in the SMO framework.
- RAN OAM-related functions provision configuration changes, related to RAN-specific network slicing.
- RAN OAM-related functions collect performance data, related to RAN-specific network slicing.

## 8.6 O2-related functions

The O2 interface is an open logical interface within O-RAN architecture. The logical functions that produce the O2-related services which are exposed to rApps via the R1 interface are called the “O2-related functions”. O2-related functions include FOCOM and NFO. They realize the following functionalities:

- Producing O2-related services which are exposed to rApps via the R1 interface.
- The corresponding service definition can be found in clause 7.6.
- Interfacing with O-Cloud through O2 termination.
- O2-related functions receive O-Cloud infrastructure FCAPS (PM, CM, FM) data via O-Cloud IMS, see O-RAN O2GAP [13].
- O2-related functions receive O-Cloud deployment FCAPS (PM, CM, FM) data via O-Cloud DMS, see O-RAN O2GAP [13].
- O2-related functions provision configuration changes to O-Cloud.
- Performing conflict mitigation for O-Cloud configuration changes.

## 8.7 AI/ML workflow functions

The AI/ML workflow functions are logical functions that produce the following AI/ML workflow services as specified in clause 7.7:

- AI/ML training services.
- AI/ML model management and exposure services, which enables AI/ML model registration/deregistration, AI/ML model discovery, AI/ML model change subscription, AI/ML model storage and optionally AI/ML model training capability registration/deregistration/query.
- AI/ML model performance monitoring services.
- AI/ML model inference services.

## 8.8 rApp management functions

The rApp management functions are logical functions that produce the rApp registration, rApp configuration, rApp performance, rApp fault and rApp log information services as specified in clause 7.8.

## 8.9 TE&IV related functions

The logical functions that produce the TE&IV related services which are exposed to rApps via the R1 interface are called the “TE&IV related functions". They realize the following functionalities as specified in clause 7.9:

# 9 External Interfaces

## 9.1 A1 Interface

O-RAN A1GAP [4] specifies A1 interface general aspects and principles.

O-RAN A1AP [5] specifies A1 interface application protocols.

O-RAN A1TP [6] specifies A1 interface transport protocols.

O-RAN A1TD [7] specifies data model and data types used in the A1 interface.

## 9.2 Void

# 10 Procedures

## 10.1 Data management and exposure procedures

### 10.1.0 Overview

This clause demonstrates example procedures related to data management and exposure (DME) services produced and consumed by SMO/Non-RT RIC framework. A Data Consumer rApp requests/subscribes data from SMO/Non-RT RIC framework, and the requested/subscribed data are collected from another Data Producer rApp or other O-RAN entities.

> NOTE:	It is not required to use the same type of DME services procedure in data consumption and data collection.
Data consumption denotes the procedures of Data Consumer rApp requesting/subscribing data from SMO/Non-RT RIC framework. Data collection denotes the procedures of SMO/Non-RT RIC framework requesting/subscribing data from Data Producer rApps or other O-RAN entities.

### 10.1.1 Subscribe data procedures in data consumption and collection

Figure 10.1.1-1 illustrates an example workflow of using DME services to subscribe data and deliver data over the R1 interface. In this example, it is assumed that

- Two Data Consumer rApps subscribe the same data instance (i.e., same DME type and scope) from the DME functions.
- The requested data are produced by a Data Producer rApp.
- The DME functions subscribe data instance from the Data Producer rApp.
- Data are delivered using pull or push data delivery or by point to multipoint streaming data delivery. In case of pull delivery, the pull delivery details can be contained in subscribe data response or data availability notification. The Data Consumer makes a pull request based on the received pull delivery details. In case of point to multipoint streaming data delivery, DME functions inform the Data Consumer which data stream endpoint to consume the subscribed data from.
When the first Data Consumer rApp initiates the Subscribe data procedure to obtain data, the DME functions first identify the Data Producer for the requested data instance. In this example, one Data Producer rApp which is already registered as being capable of producing the subscribed data are identified as the Data Producer. The DME functions figure out there is no data subscription for the requested data instance yet, and the DME functions subscribe data from Data Producer rApp. In case of pull delivery, the Data Producer rApp notifies the data availability to the DME functions and provides pull data details in the notification. The DME functions then pull data from the Data Producer rApp. In case of push delivery, the Data Producer rApp pushes the data to the DME functions. The DME functions may optionally process the data or store the data in the data repository for future usage. In case of pull delivery, the DME functions further notify the data availability to the first Data Consumer rApp. The rApp then pulls the data from the DME functions. In case of push delivery, the DME functions push the data to the Data Consumer rApp. In case of point to multipoint streaming data delivery, the DME functions configures the data stream endpoint unless it is already configured. The Data Producer rApp writes the data to the stream endpoint and Data Consumer rApp reads the data from the stream endpoint.

When the second Data Consumer rApp sends a data subscription request to the DME functions, the DME functions find out that the data subscription for the requested data instance is already established. Therefore, the DME functions do not set up additional data subscription with the Data Producer rApp. Once new data are available, the following steps are executed: In case of pull delivery, the Data Producer notifies the data availability to the DME functions, and these pull the data from the Data Producer. In case of push delivery, the Data Producer pushes the data to the DME functions. The DME functions may optionally process the data and store the data in the data repository for future usage. In case of pull delivery, the DME functions further notify the data availability to both Data Consumer rApps which then pull the data from the DME functions. In case of push delivery, the DME functions push the data to both Data Consumer rApps. In case of point to multipoint streaming data delivery, the DME functions inform the second Data Consumer rApp which data stream endpoint to use. The Data Producer rApp writes the data to the data stream endpoint and the Data Consumer rApp reads the data from the data stream endpoint.

The DME functions can use different procedures to deliver data to Data Consumer rApps even if both Data Consumer rApps subscribe the same data instance. For example, the DME functions can notify data availability to the one Data Consumer rApp allowing the rApp to pull data, meanwhile the DME functions push data to another Data Consumer or both the Data Consumer rApps read the data from the data stream endpoint provided by the DME functions.

> NOTE 1:	Push content can be (1) notifications that carry a data payload or (2) streams of data.
> NOTE 2:	Notifications, pull data delivery, and push data delivery may require the set-up of a dedicated communication channel that allows the content to be pulled/pushed. Such dedicated communication channels may map to, e.g., Kafka topic, WebSocket connection, gRPC connection, etc. Alternatively, individual HTTP requests may be used as push messages.
Figure 10.1.1-2 illustrates an example workflow of using unsubscribe data procedures to terminate data subscription in data consumption data and data collection. In the example, it is assumed that the two Data Consumer rApps in the figure are the only two Data Consumers which have subscribed the data instance produced by the Data Producer rApp.

When the second Data Consumer rApp initiates the unsubscribe data procedure, the DME functions find out that the produced data are also subscribed by the first Data Consumer rApp. Therefore, the DME functions can't unsubscribe from the Data Producer rApp.

When the first Data Consumer rApp initiates the unsubscribe data procedure, the DME functions figure out that the data subscription is no longer needed. Hence, in this example, the DME functions identify the Data Producer rApp and send an unsubscription request to cancel the data subscription. In case of point to multipoint streaming data delivery, the Data Producer rApp stops producing the data to the data stream endpoint.

> NOTE 3:	The DME functions are not required to unsubscribe data from Data Producers even if there are no Data Consumers requesting or subscribing these data. The DME functions may collect data from Data Producers for its own purposes.

### 10.1.2 Request data procedure in data consumption and data collection

Figure 10.1.2-1 illustrates an example workflow of using DME services to request and deliver data over the R1 interface. In this example, it is assumed that

- Two Data Consumer rApps request the same data instance (i.e., same DME type and scope) using request data procedure.
- The requested data are produced by a Data Producer rApp.
- The DME functions request data from the Data Producer rApp using request data procedure.
- Data are delivered using pull delivery. The pull delivery details are contained in the request data response. The Data Consumer makes a pull request based on the received pull delivery details.
- The pull delivery details provide Data Consumer information of how to formulate a pull data request for the delivery of requested data (e.g., a URI from which to fetch the data).
When the first Data Consumer rApp initiates the request data procedure to obtain data, the DME functions first check whether the requested data are available in the data repository. In this example, it figures out that data are not available. Then the DME functions identify the Data Producer rApp as the Data Producer, e.g., based on DME type registration records. The DME functions send data request to the Data Producer rApp, and the data are delivered from the Data Producer rApp using pull delivery. The DME functions then send data request response to the first Data Consumer rApp carrying pull delivery details. The first Data Consumer rApp pulls data from the DME functions. The DME functions may optionally process data and store the data in the data repository for future usage.

When the second Data Consumer rApp sends data request to the DME functions, the DME functions notice that the requested data are already available in the data repository. Then the DME functions retrieve requested data from data repository and responds the second Data Consumer rApp with pull delivery details. The data are pulled by the second Data Consumer rApp.

### 10.1.3 O1 related data collection procedures based on data subscription

Figure 10.1.3-1 illustrates an example workflow of how DME functions in the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework collect O1-related data based on the data subscription from a Data Consumer rApp.

In this example, when the Data Consumer rApp initiates the subscribe data procedure to obtain O1 related data, the DME functions acknowledge the data subscription, and check whether subscribed data are being collected already or not. If the subscribed data are not being collected, the DME functions initiates data collection procedure to collect from nodes terminating the O1 interface via the RAN OAM-related functions. The related procedures have been specified in O-RAN OAM Arch [8], clause 4.2.2 “O-RAN Measurement Data Collection Use Case”. When the DME functions receive the collected data from the RAN OAM-related functions, they notify the Data Consumer rApp, and the subscribed data are delivered using pull or push data services.

> NOTE:	Data delivery procedures are defined in O-RAN R1GAP [9], clause 5.2.6.

### 10.1.4 O2 related data collection procedures based on data subscription

Figure 10.1.4-1 illustrates an example workflow of how DME functions in the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework collect O2 related data based on the data subscription from a Data Consumer rApp.

In this example, when the Data Consumer rApp initiates the subscribe data procedure to obtain O2 related data, the DME functions acknowledge the data subscription, and check whether subscribed data are being collected already or not. If the subscribed data are not being collected, the DME functions initiate Data collection procedure to collect from DMS via the O2 related functions. This procedure has been specified in O-RAN OAM Arch [8], clause 4.2.2 “O-RAN Measurement Data Collection Use Case”. When the DME functions receive the collected data from the O2 related functions, it notifies the Data Consumer rApp, and the subscribed data are delivered using pull or push data services.

> NOTE:	Data delivery procedures are defined in O-RAN R1GAP [9], clause 5.2.6.

### 10.1.5 Data offer procedures

Figure 10.1.5-1 illustrates an example workflow of using the DME services by a Data Producer to trigger the DME functions to collect a data instance produced by that Data Producer and to store it for later consumption.

The Data Producer rApp first needs to register a DME type for the data instance it intends to produce. The rApp then initiates the create data offer procedure to trigger the collection of a data instance of that DME type which it intends to produce. The parameters of the data instance and the supported delivery services are indicated in the request. After receiving the request, the DME functions first check whether the Data Producer has registered the DME type for which it intends to produce an instance. Upon success, the DME functions set up an endpoint for the reception of data availability notifications or push data messages, depending on the delivery service chosen, and communicate this information to the Data Producer. Data collection can start immediately after the data offer creation has been acknowledged by the DME functions.

When data are available, the Data Producer sends a data availability notification to the DME functions and these pull the data, or the Data Producer pushes the data to the DME functions. Then, the DME functions store these data for subsequent consumption.

When the Data Producer intends to stop data production, it terminates the data offer by using the terminate data offer procedure. Data collection ends upon successful execution of that procedure. When the data management and exposure functions intend to stop receiving produced data, they send a data offer termination notification to the Data Producer. Subsequently, possibly after a delay to allow the Data Producer to react to the notification, the data management and exposure functions stop data collection and terminate the data offer. Upon receiving this notification, the Data Producer stops data production.

## 10.2 A1-related procedures

### 10.2.1 EI results collection from rApps

Figure 10.2.1-1 illustrates an example workflow of collecting data from rApps (over the R1 interface) that is delivered as EI job results to the Near-RT RICs (over the A1 interface). EI job results refer to the data being transferred from the Non-RT RIC to the Near-RT RICs, while EI source data refers to the data produced by the rApp that acts as the source for the data provided as EI job results. Correspondingly, EI type refers to the data type that is made available to the Near-RT RICs while the corresponding DME type registered by the rApp is referred to as EI source DME type. Moreover, EI job refers to a request for EI by the Near-RT RIC while EI source data subscription refers to the corresponding subscription to the rApp that acts the source for the data.

> NOTE 1:	EI source data type refers to any DME type that is registered with the DME functions and the corresponding data are used as the source of EI job results.
The rApp which generates the enrichment information first registers the EI source DME type in the DME functions. After successful DME type registration, the rApp registers the EI type for which it can produce enrichment information to the A1 enrichment information functions. In the registration request, the rApp should include the EI source DME type registered in the DME functions. The EI type is to be exposed via the A1 interface to the Near-RT RIC. The EI source DME type allows the A1 enrichment information functions to subscribe EI source data from DME functions.

The A1 enrichment information functions query DME functions about the EI source DME type. If the query is successful, the EI type registered by the rApp is made available over the A1 interface. The Near-RT RIC queries available EI type identifiers in the Non-RT RIC. The Near-RT RIC queries EI type and creates an EI job via the A1 interface. After receiving the EI job creation request from the Near-RT RIC, the A1 enrichment information functions subscribe EI source data from DME functions. The DME functions further subscribe EI source data from the rApp over the R1 interface.

Each time new EI source data are available, the rApp delivers EI source data to the DME functions using pull or push delivery. The DME functions deliver EI source data to the A1 enrichment information functions. The A1 enrichment formation functions establish the connection with Near-RT RIC and push the EI job results via the A1 interface.

> NOTE 2:	SMO/Non-RT RIC framework internal interactions are not specified.
> NOTE 3:	As an alternative to using the data subscription procedure, the data request procedure can be used to collect EI source data from the rApp.
> NOTE 4:	A procedure for EI source data collection from external sources is not specified in the present document.

### 10.2.2 rApp creating a policy with a Near-RT RIC identifier

Figure 10.2.2-1 illustrates an example workflow of rApp creating a policy over the R1 interface with a Near-RT RIC identifier, and the Non-RT RIC creates the corresponding A1 policy at a Near-RT RIC over the A1 interface. In this example, it is assumed that the rApp obtained the Near-RT RIC identifier by consuming other R1 services.

The rApp sends create policy request to the A1 policy functions in the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework, providing the policy object and a Near-RT RIC identifier. The A1 policy functions validate the creation request, e.g., whether the identified Near-RT RIC is operating, whether the rApp is authorized to create an A1 policy in the identified Near-RT RIC, whether the policy object provided in request is valid against the policy type schema, etc.

If the validation fails, then A1 policy functions send the failure indication in the create policy response to rApp. Otherwise, the A1 policy functions generate an identifier for the policy and send a create A1 policy request to the target Near-RT RIC, including the policy identifier and the A1 policy object.

If the Near-RT RIC indicates a successful creation in the create A1 policy response, the create policy response to the rApp over R1 carries the successful indication and the policy identifier. The rApp assumes that the policy is now enforced in the target Near-RT RIC. If the policy creation in A1 fails, then the Near-RT RIC sends proper error codes in the create A1 policy response. The A1 policy functions forward the failure indication to the rApp.

## 10.3 RAN OAM-related procedures

### 10.3.1 Alarm query procedure

Figure 10.3.1-1 illustrates an example workflow of querying alarm information. Alarm information from the nodes terminating the O1 interface is typically received by the SMO via O1. It is consolidated by the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework and can be queried by rApps via the R1 interface. Alternatively the rApps identify the cells and its associated NF instances as specified in TE&IV-UCR [15] clause 4.2 , and use it as an filter criteria  to query the alarm information.

> NOTE:  M-Plane alarms and slice alarms are not specified in the present document.

### 10.3.2 Change alarm acknowledgement state procedure

Figure 10.3.2-1 illustrates an example workflow of changing the acknowledgement state of an alarm. Alarm information from the nodes terminating the O1 interface is typically received by the SMO via O1. It is consolidated by the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework. The rApps can change the acknowledgement state of the alarms that are known by the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework. Alarm acknowledgment state information is usually managed by the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework and is only passed to the radio nodes / Near-RT RIC if alarm acknowledgement / unacknowledgement is supported by these entities.

> NOTE:  M-Plane alarms and slice alarms are not specified in the present document.

### 10.3.3 Read configuration data procedure

Figure 10.3.3-1 and figure 10.3.3-2 illustrate an example workflow of reading the current CM configurations of the network elements. CM configuration data from the RAN nodes terminating the O1 interface is typically received by the SMO via O1. It is cached and continuously synchronized by the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework (see figure 10.3.3-1) and can be retrieved by rApps via the R1 interface (see figure 10.3.3-2). The read configuration data request initiated by rApps may contain requests for reading configuration data for multiple RAN nodes in order to save bandwidth on the R1 interface.

> NOTE:		Read configuration data procedure is defined in O-RAN R1GAP [9], clause 5.4.5.
The RAN OAM-related functions may maintain a local data store (implementation specific) caching part or all of the CM configurations of the RAN nodes for fast retrieval of configuration data from rApps and minimizing the signalling overhead on the O1 interface. In this example, as illustrated in figure 10.3.3-1, the RAN OAM-related functions synchronize the configuration data in its local data store with the RAN nodes continuously based on read MOI attributes procedures or notifications of MOI attribute changes over the O1 interface or internal knowledge of the attribute changes made by the rApps and framework functions within the SMO which is implementation specific. When the rApp initiates the read configuration data procedure, as illustrated in figure 10.3.3-2, the RAN OAM-related functions optionally check if the requested configuration data has been collected already and is up to date. The requested configuration data by the rApp might not be always cached in the local data store. If the requested data has not being collected, the RAN OAM-related functions initiate read MOI attributes procedures to collect the latest configuration data from the RAN nodes via the O1 interface as specified in O-RAN O1 interface [11], clause 6.1.5.3. Finally, a read configuration data response with the latest configuration data is sent to rApp by the RAN OAM-related functions.

### 10.3.4 Write configuration changes procedure

Figure 10.3.4-1 illustrates an example workflow of writing the CM configuration changes to the network elements. CM configurations in the RAN nodes terminating the O1 interface are typically managed by the SMO via O1. Configuration information is consolidated by the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework and can be modified by rApps via the R1 interface. The write configuration changes request initiated by rApps may contain bundled write requests for multiple RAN nodes in order to save bandwidth on the R1 interface.

The write configuration changes request is handled in asynchronous approach. When the rApp initiates the write configuration changes procedure, the RAN OAM-related functions authenticate the request with SME, validate the request, store the request as job and acknowledge the request by sending write configuration changes response indicating that the request has been accepted for processing, but the processing job has not been completed. An assigned requested identifying the created processing job is included in the response. The actual processing job for the write configuration changes request which includes e.g., conflict detection, conflict mitigation and writing the configuration changes to each RAN node as requested via the O1 interface, happens asynchronously. If the rApp has subscribed for the notification of the write configuration changes job status, the RAN OAM-related functions send a notification to the rApp once the write configuration changes job is complete, indicating the completion of the job and providing information about success, partial success, or failure result with failure reasons. Otherwise, the rApp can query for the write configuration changes job status and result with query procedures.

## 10.4 AI/ML workflow procedures

### 10.4.1 rApps register, discover AI/ML models, and subscribe to models changes

Figure 10.4.1-1 illustrates an example workflow of rApps using AI/ML workflow functions to register, discover AI/ML models and subscribe to registered models changes.

A model producer rApp sends a request to the AI/ML workflow functions to register an AI/ML model. The register AI/ML model request contains AI/ML model information (e.g., model accuracy, model usage scenario, model training dataset information, etc.). Upon receipt of the registration request, the AI/ML workflow functions authorize the model producer rApp and register the AI/ML model. After successful registration, the AI/ML workflow functions assign an AI/ML model registration identifier and communicate this registration identifier to the model producer rApp in a register AI/ML model response.

A model consumer rApp sends a request to the AI/ML workflow functions to discover registered AI/ML models based on optional selection criteria. After receiving the request, the AI/ML workflow functions authorize the model consumer rApp and communicate to the model consumer rApp the model identifier(s) and metadata of AI/ML model(s) that match the provided selection criteria.

The model consumer rApp can send a subscribe AI/ML model change request to the AI/ML workflow functions to subscribe to the changes in a registered AI/ML model. Upon receipt of the subscription request, AI/ML workflow functions authorize the model consumer rApp and create a subscription. After successful subscription, the AI/ML workflow functions communicate to the model consumer rApp the subscription ID in a subscribe AI/ML model change response.

When there is a change in the subscribed AI/ML model, the AI/ML workflow functions send notifications of changes in the registered AI/ML model to the subscribed AI/ML model consumer rApp.

When the model producer rApp sends a deregister request to the AI/ML workflow functions to deregister a registered AI/ML model, the AI/ML workflow functions deregister the AI/ML model and communicate to the rApp that the deregistration was successful. The AI/ML workflow functions send notifications of the deregistration of the registered AI/ML model to the subscribed AI/ML model consumer rApp.

The model consumer rApp can send an unsubscribe request to the AI/ML workflow functions to unsubscribe to changes in a registered AI/ML model. Upon reception of the unsubscribe request, the AI/ML workflow functions unsubscribe the model consumer rApp to the AI/ML model change. After successfully unsubscribing, the AI/ML workflow functions communicate to the model consumer rApp that unsubscribing was successful.

> NOTE: 	The metadata includes model related information, e.g., training dataset information, etc.

### 10.4.2 AI/ML training procedures

The following figures illustrate an example workflows of an AI/ML training services Consumer rApp requesting AI/ML training of an AI/ML model. In figure 10.4.2-1, the AI/ML workflow functions in the Non-RT RIC framework are the AI/ML training services Producer. In figure 10.4.2-2, an AI/ML training services Producer rApp produces the AI/ML training services. In figure 10.4.2-3, the AI/ML workflow functions coordinate AI/ML training in the SMO/Non-RT RIC, and they relay training request and subsequent messages between the AI/ML training services Consumer App and a proper AI/ML training services Producer rApp based on registered training capabilities.

The AI/ML training services Consumer rApp sends a training request to the AI/ML training services Producer, providing model identifier of the model to be trained, information about required data for training, training requirements such as validation criteria, and a URI to receive notifications, etc. The AI/ML training services Producer, if accepts the training request, sends back request training response containing a training identifier.

After accepting the training request, the AI/ML training services Producer may retrieve the model from the model repository and consumes training data via DME based on the information provided by the AI/ML training services Consumer rApp. The AI/ML training services Producer then performs the training.

The AI/ML training services Consumer rApp can query the training job status using the received training job identifier. The AI/ML training services Producer provides the training job status in the response to the query.

If the AI/ML training services Consumer rApp wants to cancel the on-going training, it sends a cancel training request to the AI/ML training services Producer providing the training job identifier. The AI/ML training services Producer then terminates the training and response to the AI/ML training services Consumer rApp.

If the training completes, the AI/ML training services Producer may store the trained model in the model repository, and it then notifies the AI/ML training services Consumer rApp about the completion of the training, sending the notification to the notification URI received in the training request.

The AI/ML training services Consumer rApp can retrieve the trained model from the model repository, if the AI/ML training services Producer has stored the trained model in the model repository.

> NOTE:	The model repository can be implemented as part of the AI/ML workflow functions.

### 10.4.3 AI/ML model storage and retrieval procedures

Figure 10.4.3-1 illustrates an example workflow of AI/ML model storage and retrieval.

The AI/ML training services Consumer rApp sends training request to the AI/ML training services Producer rApp. After accepting the training request, the AI/ML training services Producer rApp may send a retrieve model request to the AI/ML workflow functions, containing the model identifier of the AI/ML model to be trained. The AI/ML workflow functions validate the retrieval request and provide the model location details of the requested AI/ML model. The AI/ML training services Producer rApp may retrieve the model to be trained via the model location details.

The AI/ML training services Producer rApp trains the AI/ML model. After the completion of the model training, the AI/ML training services Producer rApp may send store model request to the AI/ML workflow functions to store the trained model. It provides the model identifier and model location details for the trained model in the request. The AI/ML workflow functions response to the storage request with an updated identifier for the trained model.

The AI/ML training services Producer rApp notifies the AI/ML training services Consumer rApp about the completion of the model training. The AI/ML training services Consumer rApp then may send retrieve model request to the AI/ML workflow functions with the updated model identifier to retrieve the trained model. The AI/ML workflow functions response to the retrieval request with the model location details of the trained model.

## A.1 Overview

### A.1.1 Introduction

The application package model is specified in OAM Architecture [i.3] clause 6, and the process of on-boarding is specified in O-RAN TS: “Onboarding SMOS General Aspects and Principals” [i.2] clause 4. The deployment, maintenance and termination of an rApp is described on high level. The below clauses describe the detailed lifecycle aspects of a rApp instances with an example of the rApp management functions.

### A.1.2  rApp LCM workflow

The rApp LCM consumer can initiate the deployment of an rApp instance by requesting creation from the rApp management functions.

Once rApp management functions are aware that an rApp package is on-boarded and stored in the on-boarding catalog as specified in O-RAN TS: “Onboarding SMOS General Aspects and Principals” [i.2] clause 4, the rApp management functions consume the rApp package artifacts, then the rApp management functions initiate the deployment of rApp instances in the run-time environment by creating the workloads.

When rApp instance is created, it makes an optional bootstrap request (or uses configured service endpoints) and performs registrations via R1 (e.g., register as an rApp, register service APIs with SME, request authorization, register data production capabilities with DME, or register AI/ML model with AME) necessary for the rApp to execute according to its configuration. The rApp then performs required R1 activities, e.g., creating required data jobs via DME services (e.g., for the input to the model inference) and activates data production as requested via DME services (e.g., for output from model inferencing to be used for actuations towards network functions).Once the rApp instance is running , it can be managed over R1 interface via the rApp management services as specified in clause 7.8.

Upgrading the rApp instance initiates the removal of the rApp instance and deployment of a new instance of the rApp with the updated configuration based on new or modified rApp package artifacts.

When the rApp instance is terminated, the rApp management functions removes the rApp instance.

The rApp lifecycle management workflow is illustrated in figure A.1-1.

#### A.1.2.1 Deployment of an rApp instance

When all the artefacts have been onboarded, the rApp instance can be deployed.

> NOTE 1:	An rApp obtains during deployment security details that as specified in O-RAN TS: “Security Requirements Specifications” [i.4] clause 5.1.2.

#### A.1.2.2 Maintenance of an rApp instance

##### A.1.2.2.1 Upgrade of an rApp instance

Changing the artefacts for the rApp instance is referred to as Upgrading the rApp instance.

Before rApp instance can be upgraded, a new rApp package with the new/modified artefacts must have been onboarded.

- The rApp management functions responds to request for the upgrade of an rApp instance to the rApp LCM consumer.

#### A.1.2.3  Termination of an rApp instance

An rApp instance is terminated, by deleting the rApp instance. The rApp LCM consumer can request the rApp management functions to delete the rApp instance.


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG2.TS.R1AP-R004-v9.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG2.TS.R1AP-R004-v9.00 Technical Specification"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms apply: API Consumer: The Service Consumer consuming one or more services using APIs.
> NOTE: The Service Consumer role is introduced in R1GAP [5].
API Producer: The Service Producer that offers its services for consumption via APIs.
> NOTE: The Service Producer role is introduced in R1GAP [5].
DME type: data type managed and exposed by the DME services and identified by a data type identifier.

## 3.2 Symbols
Void

## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the follow abbreviations apply: API Application programming interface FQDN Fully qualified domain name IOC Information Object Class

# 4 Application protocol for the R1 services

## 4.1 Introduction
The present document contains a realization for the procedures identified in R1GAP [5]. It is based on transport protocols as defined in R1TP [7]. This definition of the R1 Application Protocols (R1AP) defined in the present document is based on the 3GPP service framework for network functions specified in 3GPP TS 29.501 [1].

## 4.2 Version conventions for the present document
The version number of the present document follows the “xx.yy“ versioning scheme. There could be implications for the interoperability between rApps and R1 service API implementations in SMO/Non-RT RIC framework that are based on different versions of the present document. An incremented “xx“ version field of the present document could indicate that a new major feature (e.g., a new R1 service) has been added or that an incompatible change has been made to one or more R1 service APIs. An incremented “yy“ version field could indicate that an optional feature has been added, a technical issue has been fixed, or that clarifications or editorial corrections have been made. The version conventions for RESTful R1 service APIs are defined in clause 5.2.

# 5 RESTful R1 service APIs

## 5.1 Overview
The design of the RESTful R1 service APIs is based on the procedures and requirements defined in R1UCR [6] and R1GAP [5], and on the protocol design framework as specified in 3GPP TS 29.501 [1] . The API version of a service API includes a pre-release version (e.g., “-alpha.1“) if the service API is under development. The present document defines the protocols for the R1 service APIs listed in table 5.1-1. R1 Services Service API API Version Service management and exposure Service registration 1.2.0 services Service discovery 1.2.0 Service events subscription 1.2.0 Bootstrap 1.0.0 Data management and exposure services Data registration 2.0.0-alpha.2 Data discovery 2.0.0 Data access 2.0.0-alpha.2 HTTP based push data 1.0.0 HTTP based pull data 1.0.0 Data offer 1.0.0 RAN OAM-related services Configuration management 1.0.0-alpha.1 Fault management 1.0.0 Configuration schema information 1.0.0-alpha.2 A1-related services A1 policy management 1.0.0 AI/ML workflow services AI/ML model registration 1.0.0 AI/ML model discovery 1.1.0 AI/ML model training 1.0.0-alpha.1 AI/ML model deployment 1.0.0-alpha.1

## 5.2 Versioning of RESTful R1 service APIs
Each RESTful R1 service API is versioned independently. The API version number defined in the present document contains three numerical fields following a MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH pattern, and may contain a pre-release version field, according to SemVer [11]. The API version number held by an implementation may additionally include a build metadata field, according to SemVer [11], to indicate a specific deployment. The content of this field is implementation specific; it is provided by the deployment. The <apiVersion> path segment used in URI structures indicate the MAJOR field of the API version number. The full API version number is visible in the “version“ field of the “info“ object of each OpenAPI document in Annex A, as well as in the ServiceAPIDescription information communicated during service registration and service discovery (see annex B.3.4.1). To indicate the full API version the API Consumer intends to use, the API Consumer may include the “Version“ HTTP header (see IETF RFC 4229 [13] ) in an HTTP request, in which case the header shall contain the version identifier as defined above. It is optional to include the build metadata field. The API Producer shall include in the response the “Version“ HTTP header signalling the used API version, including the build metadata if available. If the build metadata have been omitted in the request, the API Producer shall use the combination of MAJOR, MINOR, PATCH, and pre-release indicator as requested and the highest supported value for the build metadata field for that combination, if available. In case the API Consumer has not sent a “Version“ header in the request, the API Producer shall use the latest available version, and signal it in the “Version“ header.
> NOTE: In case multiple versions are supported by an API Producer under the URI for a major version, this allows the
API Consumer to request a particular version. This mechanism is referred to as “microversioning“. If the API version signalled by the API Consumer in the “Version“ request header is not supported by the API Producer, the API Producer shall respond with a “406 Not Acceptable“ error and may include in the response payload body a Problem Details structure providing more information on the cause of the error.

## 5.3 URI structure and supported content formats
This clause specifies the URI prefix and the supported content formats applicable to the RESTful R1 service APIs. All resource URIs of the APIs shall have the following prefix: {apiRoot}/<apiName>/<apiVersion>/ The request URIs used in HTTP requests from the API Consumer towards the API Producer shall have the resource URI structure defined in clause 4.4.1 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [1], i.e.: {apiRoot}/<apiName>/<apiVersion>/<apiSpecificResourceUriPart> with the following components:
- The {apiRoot} shall be set as described in 3GPP TS 29.501[1], clause 4.4.1; however, the restrictions w.r.t the
operator specific FQDN of the host portion defined there do not apply.
- The <apiName> indicates the API name of the service interface in an abbreviated form. It is defined in the
clause specifying the corresponding RESTful R1 service API.
- The <apiVersion> indicates the major version (see clause 5.2) of the API and is defined in the clause specifying the
corresponding RESTful R1 serviceAPI.
- Each <apiSpecificResourceUriPart> represents a specific resource of the API. It is defined in the corresponding
RESTful R1 service API for each one of the defined resources. For HTTP requests and responses that have message content, the content format JSON (see IETF RFC 8259 [12]) shall be supported. The JSON format shall be signalled by the content type “application/json“. All resource URIs of the API shall comply with the URI syntax as defined in IETF RFC 3986 [8]. An implementation that dynamically generates resource URI parts (individual path segments, sequences of path segments that are separated by “/“, query parameter values) shall ensure that these parts only use the character set that is allowed by IETF RFC 3986 [8] for these parts.

## 5.4 General considerations for RESTful R1 service APIs

### 5.4.1 Usage of HTTP header fields
HTTP headers are components of the headers section of the HTTP request and response messages. The usage of HTTP header fields shall follow the definitions in ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [4], clause 4.2.

### 5.4.2 Handling of large query results
The handling of large query results shall be supported by RESTful R1 service APIs as specified in ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [4], clause 5.4.2.

### 5.4.3 Error reporting
In RESTful interfaces, application errors are mapped to HTTP errors. Since HTTP error information is generally not enough to discover the root cause of the error, additional application specific error information is typically delivered in the message content based on the ProblemDetails data type. HTTP error responses shall be supported as specified in 3GPP TS 29.501 [1], clause 4.8. Protocol errors and application errors specified in 3GPP TS 29.500 [2], table 5.2.7.1-1, shall be supported for an HTTP method if the corresponding HTTP status codes are specified as mandatory for that HTTP method in 3GPP TS 29.500 [2], table 5.2.7.1-1. If an HTTP method is not defined for a particular resource in the present document, that method is not supported. When that method is requested on the resource, the API Producer shall return a “405 Method Not Allowed“ response. The message content may include a ProblemDetails structure.

# 6 Service management and exposure services

## 6.1 Service registration API

### 6.1.1 Introduction
This API allows the API Consumer to manage registrations of service APIs based on the procedures for “Registration of services“ defined in R1GAP [5].

### 6.1.2 API version
For the service registration API as specified in the present document, the MAJOR version field shall be 1, the MINOR version field shall be 2 and the PATCH version field shall be 0 (see 3GPP TS 29.501 [1] for a definition of the version fields). Consequently, the <apiVersion> URI path segment shall be set to “v1“.

### 6.1.3 Resource structure and methods
The request URIs used in HTTP requests from the API Consumer towards the API Producer shall have the resource URI structure as defined for the CAPIF_Publish_Service_API (see 3GPP TS 29.222 [9], for Figure 8.2.2.1-1 in Clause 8.2.2). [9], clause 8.2) and the associated service operations. Resource Name Resource URI HTTP method Service Operation 3GPP TS 29.222 [9] 3GPP TS 29.222 [9] 3GPP TS 29.222 [9] APF published APIs /{apfId}/service-apis POST Register service API GET Query service APIs Individual APF published /{apfId}/service- PUT Update registered service API apis/{serviceApiId} API DELETE Deregister service API PATCH Partial update registered service API

### 6.1.4 Service operations

#### 6.1.4.1 Register service API

##### 6.1.4.1.1 Operation definition

# A Service Producer uses the Register service API operation as API Consumer to register with the API Producer service APIs
for services it is capable of producing. The operation is based on HTTP POST. participant “API Consumer“ as cons participant “API Producer“ as prod cons ->> prod : POST …/{apfId}/service-apis (ServiceAPIDescription) prod -->> cons : 201 Created (ServiceAPIDescription) The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP POST request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource (.../{apfId}/service-apis/) under which the new registration is requested to be created. The message content shall carry a ServiceAPIDescription structure. The API Producer shall process the message content received in the HTTP POST message and determine if the request sent by the API Consumer is authorized or not. 2. The API Producer shall generate the service API identifier and construct the URI for the created resource. The API Producer shall return the HTTP POST response. On success “201 Created“ shall be returned. The “Location“ header shall be present and shall carry the URI of the new registration resource. The message content shall carry the registered service API description. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the message response body may contain additional error information.

##### 6.1.4.1.2 Referenced procedures.
6.1.4.1.2.1 Register service procedure The Register service API operation illustrated in figure 6.1.4.1.1-1 is based on the Register service procedure defined in R1GAP [5].

#### 6.1.4.2 Update registered service API.

##### 6.1.4.2.1 Operation definition

# A Service Producer uses the Update registered service API operation as API Consumer to update a complete service API
registration with the API Producer. The operation is based on HTTP PUT. participant “API Consumer“ as cons participant “API Producer“ as prod cons ->> prod : PUT …/{apfId}/service-apis/{serviceApiId}} (ServiceAPIDescription) prod -->> cons : 200 OK (ServiceAPIDescription) The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP PUT request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource (…/{apfId}/service-apis/{serviceApiId}). The message content shall carry an updated service API description. The API Producer shall determine if the request sent by the API Consumer is authorized or not. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP PUT response. On success “200 OK“ shall be returned. The message content shall carry the updated service API description. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the message response body may contain additional error information.

##### 6.1.4.2.2 Referenced procedures.
6.1.4.2.2.1 Update service registration procedure The Update registered service API operation illustrated in figure 6.1.4.2.1-1 is based on the Update service registration procedure defined in R1GAP [5].

#### 6.1.4.3 Deregister service API

##### 6.1.4.3.1 Operation definition

# A Service Producer uses the Deregister service API operation as API Consumer to deregister a service with the API Producer
The operation is based on HTTP DELETE. participant “API Consumer“ as cons participant “API Producer“ as prod cons ->> prod : DELETE …/{apfId}/service-apis/{serviceApiId} prod -->> cons : 204 No Content The service operation is as follows: 1. To deregister a service, The API Consumer shall send an HTTP DELETE. request to the API Producer . The target URI shall identify the resource to be deleted (…/{apfId}/service-apis/{serviceApiId}. The API Producer shall process the message content received in the HTTP DELETE message and determine if the request sent by the API Consumer is authorized or not. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP DELETE response. On success “204 No Content“ shall be returned. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the message response body may contain additional error information.

##### 6.1.4.3.2 Referenced procedures
6.1.4.3.2.1 Deregister service procedure The Deregister service API operation illustrated in figure 6.1.4.3.1-1 is based on the Deregister service procedure defined in R1GAP [5].

#### 6.1.4.4 Partially update registered service API

##### 6.1.4.4.1 Operation definition

# A Service Producer uses the Partially update registered service API operation as API Consumer to partially update a service
API registration with the API Producer. The operation is based on HTTP PATCH. participant “API Consumer“ as cons participant “API Producer“ as prod cons ->> prod : PATCH…/{apfId}/service-apis/{serviceApiId} (ServiceAPIDescriptionPatch) prod -->> cons : 200 OK (ServiceAPIDescription) The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP PATCH request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource (…/{apfId}/service-apis/{serviceApiId}. The message content shall carry a service API description patch structure. The API Producer shall determine if the request sent by the API Consumer is authorized or not. If so, the API Producer shall process the message content received in the HTTP PATCH message. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP PATCH response. On success “200 OK“ shall be returned. The message content shall carry the updated service API description. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the message response body may contain additional error information.

##### 6.1.4.4.2 Referenced procedures.
6.1.4.4.2.1 Update service registration procedure The Update registered service API operation illustrated in figure 6.1.4.2.1-1 is based on the Update service registration procedure defined in R1GAP [5].

#### 6.1.4.5 Query service APIs

##### 6.1.4.5.1 Operation definition
The API Consumer uses the Query service APIs operation to retrieve the service API descriptions that are registered with the API Producer. The operation is based on HTTP GET. participant “API Consumer“ as cons participant “API Producer“ as prod cons ->> prod : GET …/{apfId}/service-apis prod -->> cons : 200 OK array(ServiceAPIDescription) The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP GET request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource (.../{apfId}/service-apis). The message content shall be empty. The API producer shall process the HTTP GET message and determine if the request sent by the API Consumer is authorized or not. 2. The API Producer shall return the “200 OK“ on success and the message content shall carry a list requested service API description. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message content may contain additional error information.

##### 6.1.4.5.2 Referenced procedures
6.1.4.5.2.1 Query register service procedure The Query service APIs operation illustrated in figure 6.1.4.5.1-1 is based on the query registered service procedure defined in R1GAP [5].

### 6.1.5 Resources

#### 6.1.5.1 Overview
This clause defines the resources for the service registration API based on 3GPP TS 29.222 [9].

#### 6.1.5.2 Resource: "APF published APIs"
This resource is defined in 3GPP TS 29.222 [9], clause 8.2 with the following URI: {apiRoot}/published-apis/<apiVersion>/{apfId}/service-apis By consuming this API, an rApp takes the role of the APF (API publishing function). In addition to the provisions in 3GPP TS 29.222 [9], clause 8.1, the following shall apply:
- The value of the {apfId} resource URI variable shall be set to the rAppId of the rApp that performs the service
registration.

##### 6.1.5.2.1 Resource Standard Methods
6.1.5.2.1.1 POST This method shall support the URI query parameters, request data, response data structures and response codes specified in 3GPP TS 29.222 [9], clause 8.2.2.2.3.1. 6.1.5.2.1.2 GET This method shall support the URI query parameters, request data structures, response data structures, and response codes specified in 3GPP TS 29.222 [9], clause 8.2.2.2.3.2.

##### 6.1.5.2.2 Resource Custom Operations
None

#### 6.1.5.3 Resource: "Individual APF published API"
This resource is defined in 3GPP TS 29.222 [9], clause 8.2.2.3 with the following URI: {apiRoot}/published-apis/<apiVersion>/{apfId}/service-apis/{serviceApiId} By consuming this API, an rApp takes the role of the APF (API publishing function). In addition to the provisions in 3GPP TS 29.222 [9], clause 8.2, the following shall apply:
- The value of the {apfId} resource URI variable shall be set to the rAppId of the rApp that performed the service
registration.

##### 6.1.5.3.1 Resource Standard Methods
6.1.5. 3.1.1 PUT This method shall support the URI query parameters, request data structures, response data structures and response codes specified in 3GPP TS 29.222 [9], clause 8.2.2.3.3.2. 6.1.5. 3.1.2 DELETE This method shall support the URI query parameters, request data, response data structures and response codes specified in 3GPP TS 29.222 [9], clause 8.2.2.3.3.3. 6.1.5. 3.1.3 PATCH This method shall support the URI query parameters, request data structures, response data structures and response codes specified in 3GPP TS 29.222 [9], clause 8.2.2.3.3.4.

##### 6.1.5.3.2 Resource Custom Operations
None.

### 6.1.6 Custom operations without associated resources.
None.

### 6.1.7 Notifications
None

### 6.1.8 Data model

#### 6.1.8.1 General
The application data model is defined in 3GPP TS 29.222 [9], clause 8.2.4. In addition, the adaptations specified in clause B.3 apply to this API.

#### 6.1.8.2 Structured data types
None.

#### 6.1.8.3 Simple data types and enumerations
None.

#### 6.1.8.4 Re-used data types
The re-used data types are defined in clause [27]

#### 6.1.8.5 Service-specific registration information
None.

### 6.1.9 Error Handling

#### 6.1.9.1 General
HTTP error handling is applicable for this API as specified in 3GPP TS 29.222 [9], clause 7.7 .

#### 6.1.9.2 Protocol Errors
Protocol error handling shall be supported as specified in 3GPP TS 29.222 [9], clause 8.1.5.2 .

#### 6.1.9.3 Application Errors
Application error handling shall be supported as specified in 3GPP TS 29.222 [9], clause 8.2.5.3.

## 6.2 Service discovery API

### 6.2.1 Introduction
This API allows the API Consumer to perform service discovery based on the service discovery procedures defined in R1GAP [5]. The API is based on the CAPIF_Discover_Service_API as specified in 3GPP TS 29.222 [9].

### 6.2.2 API version
For the service discovery API as specified in the present document, the MAJOR version field shall be 1, the MINOR version field shall be 2 and the PATCH version field shall be 0 (see 3GPP TS 29.501 [1] for a definition of the version fields). Consequently, the <apiVersion> URI path segment shall be set to “v1“.

### 6.2.3 Resource structure and methods
The request URIs used in HTTP requests from the API Consumer towards the API Producer shall have the resource URI structure as defined for the CAPIF_Discovery_Service_API (see 3GPP TS 29.222 [9], Figure 8.1.2.1-1 in clause 8.1.2) 29.222 [9], clause 8.1 of) and the associated service operations. Resource Name Resource URI HTTP method Service Operation 3GPP TS 29.222 [9] 3GPP TS 29.222 [9] 3GPP TS 29.222 [9] All published service .../allServiceAPIs GET Query service APIs APIs

### 6.2.4 Service operations

#### 6.2.4.1 Query service APIs

##### 6.2.4.1.1 Operation definition
The API Consumer uses the Query service APIs operation to discover service APIs information. The operation is based on HTTP GET as per figure 6.2.4.1.1-1. The HTTP GET response contains information about all services that the API Consumer is authorized to access and that match the filtering criteria. participant “API Consumer“ as cons participant “API Producer“ as prod cons ->> prod : GET .../allServiceAPIs prod -->> cons : 200 OK (DisoveredAPIs) This service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP GET request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource (…/allServiceAPIs) and may also contain that includes the rApp identifier and optional filtering criteria. The API Producer shall process the service discovery details received in the HTTP GET message and determine if the request sent by the API Consumer is authorized or not. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP GET response. On success “200 OK“ shall be returned and the message content shall carry a list of service profiles that the API Consumer is authorized to access and that match the filtering criteria, if provided. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message content may contain additional error information.

##### 6.2.4.1.2 Referenced procedures
6.2.4.1.2.1 Discovery services procedure The Query service APIs operation illustrated in figure 6.2.4.1.1-1 is based on the Discover services procedure as defined in R1GAP [5].

### 6.2.5 Resources

#### 6.2.5.1 Overview
This clause defines the resource for the Service discovery API based on 3GPP TS 29.222 [9].

#### 6.2.5.2 Resource: "All published service APIs"
This resource is defined in 3GPP TS 29.222 [9], clause 8.1 with the following URI: {apiRoot}/service-apis /<apiVersion>/allserviceapis In addition to the provisions in 3GPP TS 29.222 [9], clause 8.1, the following shall apply: 1) In the GET method, the URI query parameters “api-name“ and “api-version“ are relevant in the context of the SME services and shall be supported by the API Producer to allow filtering the query by name and/or version of the service API. The API Consumer may provide these parameters. The following parameters are not applicable in the context of the SME services and therefore need not be supported: comm-type, protocol, aef-id, data-format, api-cat, preferred- aef-loc, supported-features, api-supported-features. 2) In the GET method, the URI query parameter “api-invoker-id“ shall carry the rAppId of the rApp that performs the service discovery.

##### 6.2.5.2.1 Resource Standard Methods
6.2.5.2.1.1 GET This method shall support the URI query parameters, response data structures and response codes specified in 3GPP TS 29.222 [9], clause 8.1.2.2.3.1 .

##### 6.2.5.2.2 Resource Custom Operations
None.

### 6.2.6 Custom operations without associated resources
None.

### 6.2.7 Notifications
None.

### 6.2.8 Data model

#### 6.2.8.1 General
The application data model is defined in 3GPP TS 29.222 [9], clause 8.1.4, apply to this API. In addition, the adaptations specified in clause B.3 apply to this API.

#### 6.2.8.2 Structured data types
None.

#### 6.2.8.3 Simple data types and enumerations
None.

#### 6.2.8.4 Re-used data types
The re-used data types are defined in clause B.3.

#### 6.2.8.5 Service-specific registration information
None.

### 6.2.9 Error Handling

#### 6.2.9.1 General
HTTP error handling is applicable for this API as specified in 3GPP TS 29.222 [9], clause 7.7 .

#### 6.2.9.2 Protocol Errors
Protocol error handling shall be supported as specified in 3GPP TS 29.222 [9], clause 8.1.5.2 .

#### 6.2.9.3 Application Errors
Application error handling shall be supported as specified in 3GPP TS 29.222 [9], clause 8.2.5.3 .

## 6.3 Service events subscription API

### 6.3.1 Introduction
This API allows the API Consumer to subscribe to and unsubscribe from service event notifications as specified in R1GAP [5]. The API is based on the CAPIF_Events_API as specified in 3GPP TS 29.222 [9].

### 6.3.2 API version
For the service events subscription API as specified in the present document, the MAJOR version field shall be 1, the MINOR version field shall be 2 and the PATCH version field shall be 0 (see 3GPP TS 29.501 [1], clause 4.3.1.1, for a definition of the version fields). Consequently, the <apiVersion> URI part segment shall be set to “v1“.

### 6.3.3 Resource structure and methods
The request URIs used in HTTP requests from the API Consumer towards the API Producer shall have the resource URI structure as defined for the CAPIF_Events_API (see 3GPP TS 29.222 [9], Figure 8.3.2.1-1 in clause 8.3.1). 29.222 [9], clause 8.3.1,and the associated service operations. Resource Name Resource URI HTTP method Service 3GPP TS 29.222 3GPP TS 29.222 [9] 3GPP TS 29.222 [9] Operation [9] CAPIF Events /{subscriberId}/subscriptions POST Subscribe service Subscriptions events Individual CAPIF /{subscriberId}/subscriptions/ DELETE Unsubscribe Events {subscriptionId} service events Subscription

### 6.3.4 Service operations

#### 6.3.4.1 Subscribe service events.

##### 6.3.4.1.1 Operation definition
The API Consumer uses the subscribe service events API operation to subscribe to service event notifications. The operation is based on HTTP POST. participant “API Consumer“ as cons participant “API Producer“ as prod cons ->> prod : POST .../{subscriberId}/subscriptions/ (EventSubscription) prod -->> cons : 201 Created (subscriptionId) This service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP POST request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource (“.../{subscriberId}/subscriptions/“) under which the new subscription is requested to be created. The message content shall carry a EventSubscription structure. The API Producer shall process the request received in the HTTP POST message and determine if the request sent by the API Consumer is authorized or not. 2. The API Producer shall return HTTP POST response. On success “201 Created“ shall be returned. The “Location“ HTTP header shall be present and shall carry the URI for the newly created resource i.e., subscription identifier. The message content shall carry a EventSubscription structure that represents the new resource.On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message content may contain additional error information.

##### 6.3.4.1.2 Referenced procedures.
6.3.4.1.2.1 Subscribe service availability. The Subscribe service events operation illustrated in figure 6.3.4.1.1-1 is based on the Subscribe service availability procedure defined in R1GAP [5].

#### 6.3.4.2 Unsubscribe service events.

##### 6.3.4.2.1 Operation definition
The API Consumer uses the unsubscribe service events operation to unsubscribe from service event notifications. The operation is based on HTTP DELETE. participant “API Consumer“ as cons participant “API Producer“ as prod cons ->> prod :DELETE.../{subscriberId}/subscriptions/{subscriptionId} prod -->> cons : 204 No Content This service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP DELETE request to the API Producer. . The target URI shall identify the resource (“…/{subscriberId}/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}“). The message content shall be empty. The API Producer shall process the request received in the HTTP DELETE message and determine if the request sent by the API Consumer is authorized or not. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP DELETE response. On success “204 No Content“ shall be returned. The message content shall be empty. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message content may contain additional error information.

##### 6.3.4.2.2 Referenced procedures.
6.3.4.2.2.1 Unsubscribe service availability. The Unsubscribe service events operation illustrated in figure 6.3.4.3.1-1 is based on the Unsubscribe service availability procedure defined in R1GAP [5].

#### 6.3.4.3 Notification service API

##### 6.3.4.3.1 Operation definition
The API Producer sends notifications to all subscribed API Consumers. The operation is based on HTTP POST. participant “API Consumer“ as cons participant “API Producer“ as prod prod ->> cons : POST…/Event notification {callback URI} This service operation is as follows: 1. The API Producer shall send an HTTP POST request to the API Consumer. The target URI (“…/Eventnotification“) shall contain the call back URI received in the subscription request to notify the generated events to all the subscribed API Consumers.

##### 6.3.4.3.2 Referenced procedures.
6.3.4.3.2.1 Notify service availability changes. The Notification service API operation illustrated in figure 6.3.4.3.1-1 is based on the Notify service availability changes procedure defined in R1GAP [5].

### 6.3.5 Resources

#### 6.3.5.1 Overview
This clause defines the resource for the Service events subscription API based on 3GPP TS 29.222 [9].

#### 6.3.5.2 Resource: "CAPIF Events Subscriptions"
This resource is defined in 3GPP TS 29.222 [9], clause 8.3, with the following URI: {apiRoot}/capif-events/<apiVersion>/{subscriberId}/subscriptions This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in 3GPP TS 29.222 [9], table 8.3.2.2.2-1.

##### 6.3.5.2.1 Resource Standard Methods
6.3.5.2.1.1 POST This method shall support the URI query parameters, request data, response data structures and response codes specified in 3GPP TS 29.222 [9], clause 8.3.2.2.3.1.

##### 6.3.5.2.2 Resource Custom Operations
None

#### 6.3.5.3 Resource: "Individual CAPIF Events Subscription"
This resource is defined in 3GPP TS 29.222 [9], clause 8.3, with the following URI: {apiRoot}/capif-events/<apiVersion>/{subscriberId}/subscriptions/{subscriptionId} This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in 3GPP TS 29.222 [9], table 8.3.2.3.2-1.

##### 6.3.5.3.1 Resource Standard Methods
6.3.5.3.1.1 DELETE This method shall support the URI query parameters, request data, response data structures and response codes specified in 3GPP TS 29.222 [9], clause 8.3.2.3.3.1. 6.3.5.3.1.2 PUT This method shall support the URI query parameters, request data, response data structures and response codes specified in 3GPP TS 29.222 [9], clause 8.3.2.3.3.2. 6.3.5.3.1.2 PATCH This method shall support the URI query parameters, request data, response data structures and response codes specified in 3GPP TS 29.222 [9], clause 8.3.2.3.3.3.

##### 6.3.5.3.2 Resource Custom Operations
None.

### 6.3.6 Custom operations without associated resources.
None.

### 6.3.7 Notifications

#### 6.3.7.1 General
The delivery of notification shall conform to 3GPP TS 29.222 [9], clause 8.3.3.1.

#### 6.3.7.2 Event Notification

##### 6.3.7.2.1 Description
Event Notifications is used by the API Producer to notify all the subscribed API Consumers. The API Consumers shall subscribe to Event Notifications via the Individual CAPIF Events Subscription resource.

##### 6.3.7.2.2 Notification definition
This method shall support the request data structures, URI query parameters and the response data structures as specified in 3GPP TS 29.222 [9], clause 8.3.3.2.2.

### 6.3.8 Data Model

#### 6.3.8.1 General
The application data model is defined in 3GPP 29.222 [9], clause 8.3.4. In addition, the adaptations specified in clause B.3 of the present document and the data types listed in 3GPP TS 29.222 [9], clause 7.2, also apply to this API.

#### 6.3.8.2 Structured data types
None.

#### 6.3.8.3 Simple data types and enumerations
None.

#### 6.3.8.4 Re-used data types
The re-used data types are defined in clause B.3.

#### 6.3.8.5 Service-specific registration information
None.

### 6.3.9 Error Handling
General error responses are defined in 3GPP TS 29.222 [9], clause 7.7.

## 6.4 Bootstrap API

### 6.4.1 Introduction
This API allows the API Consumer to discover the entry points into the Service management and exposure services and the related token endpoints as defined in R1GAP [5].

### 6.4.2 API version
For the Bootstrap API as specified in the present document, the MAJOR version field shall be 1, the MINOR version field shall be 0 and the PATCH version field shall be 0 (see 3GPP TS 29.501 [1] for a definition of the version fields). Consequently, the <apiVersion> URI path segment shall be set to “v1“.

### 6.4.3 Resource structure and methods
The request URIs used in HTTP requests from the API Consumer towards the API Producer shall have the resource URI structure as defined in clause 5.2. The <apiName> resource URI variable shall be “bootstrap“. The <apiSpecificResourceUriPart> for each resource shall be set as described in clause 6.4.5. Table: 6.4.3-1 1 lists the individual resources defined for the API, the applicable HTTP methods, and the associated service operations. Resource name Resource URI HTTP Service Operation method Bootstrap info …/bootstrap-info/ GET Query bootstrap information

### 6.4.4 Service Operations

#### 6.4.4.1 Query bootstrap information

##### 6.4.4.1.1 Operation definition
The API Consumer uses this operation to retrieve bootstrap information . The operation to query bootstrap information based on HTTP GET. Consumer ->> Producer: GET …/bootstrap-info Producer -->> Consumer: 200 OK (BootstrapInformation) The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP GET request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource (…/bootstrap-info). The message content shall be empty. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP response. On success, “200 OK“ shall be returned. The message content shall carry the BootstrapInformation. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the message content may contain additional error information.

##### 6.4.4.1.2 Referenced procedures.
6.4.4.1.2.1 Discover bootstrap procedure The Query bootstrap operation illustrated in figure 6.4.4.1.1-1. is based on the Discover bootstrap procedure defined for the Service management and exposure services in R1GAP [5].

### 6.4.5 Resources

#### 6.4.5.1 Overview
The following clause defines the resources for the Bootstrap API.

#### 6.4.5.2 Resource: "Bootstrap info"

##### 6.4.5.2.1 Description
The resource represents the bootstrap information for service management and exposure services. Only the methods defined in clause 6.4.5.2.3 shall be supported by this resource.

##### 6.4.5.2.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/bootstrap/<apiVersion>/bootstrap-info The resource URI variables supported by the resource is defined in Table 6.4.5.2.2-1. Name Definition apiRoot See clause 5.2 apiVersion See clause 6.4.2

##### 6.4.5.2.3 Resource Standard Methods
6.4.5.2.3.1 GET This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table 6.4.5.2.3.1-1, the request data structure specified in table 6.4.5.2.3.12 and the response data structure and response code specified in 6.4.5.2.3.1-3. Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability N/A Data Type P Cardinality Description N/A A GET request has no message content Data Type P Cardinality Response Description codes BootstrapInformation M 1 200 OK The bootstrap information has been queried successfully by the rApp and the response contains a BootstrapInformation structure as a representation of the query resource. ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx The operation has failed, and the message content may contain Problem description details.

##### 6.4.5.2.4 Resource Custom Operations
None.

### 6.4.6 Custom operation without associated resources.
None.

### 6.4.7 Notifications
None.

### 6.4.8 Data Model

#### 6.4.8.1 Structured data types

##### 6.4.8.1.1 Overview
The following clauses define the structured data types and their attributes to be used by the bootstrap API.

##### 6.4.8.1.2 Data type: BootstrapInformation
The BootstrapInformation data type represents entry point information for the Service management and exposure services. It contains the attributes defined in table 6.4.8.1.2-1. Attribute Name Data type P Cardinality Description apiEndpoints array(ApiEndpointInformation) M 1..N Information about the API.

##### 6.4.8.1.3 Data type: ApiEndpointInformation
The ApiEndpointInformation data type represents entry point information for a single API. It contains the attributes defined in table 6.4.8.1.3-1. Attribute Name Data type P Cardinality Description apiName string M 1 Name of API , as defined in the URI structure as <apiName>. The following values shall be supported “service-apis“ for discovery and “published-apis“ for service registration. tokenEndPoint InterfaceDescription C 0..1 InterfaceDescription as defined in clause B.3.5, Token endpoint shall be provided if the API requires authorization over OAuth2.0 apiEndPoint InterfaceDescription M 1 InterfaceDescription as defined in clause B.3.5, End point of the API

#### 6.4.8.2 Simple data types and enumerations
None

#### 6.4.8.3 Re-used data types
None

#### 6.4.8.4 Service-specific registration information
None.

### 6.4.9 Error Handling

#### 6.4.9.1 General
In addition to the general provisions in clause 5.4.3, the requirements in the following clauses are applicable for Bootstrap API.

#### 6.4.9.2 Protocol Errors
No specific protocol errors are defined in the present document.

#### 6.4.9.3 Application Errors
No additional application errors defined in the present document.

# 7 Data management and exposure services

## 7.1 Data registration API

### 7.1.1 Introduction
This API enables the API Consumer to register DME type production capabilities based on the data registration service procedure defined in R1GAP [5].

### 7.1.2 API version
For the data registration API as specified in the present document, the MAJOR version field shall be 2, the MINOR version field shall be 0 and the PATCH version field shall be 0 (see 3GPP TS 29.501 [1] for a definition of the version fields). Consequently, the <apiVersion> URI path segment shall be set to “v2“. The API is under development and consequently the API version shall include the pre-release version “alpha.2“.

### 7.1.3 Resource structure and methods
The request URIs used in HTTP requests from the API Consumer towards the API Producer shall have the resource URI structure as defined in clause 5.2. The <apiName> resource URI variable shall be “dataregistration“. The <apiSpecificResourceUriPart> for each resource shall be set as described in clause 7.1.5. {a p iR o o t} /d a ta - r e g is t r a t io n /< a p iV e r s io n > /p r o d u c tio n - c a p a b ilitie s / { r e g is t r a tio n I d } Table: 7.1.3-1 lists the individual resources defined for the API, the applicable HTTP methods, and the associated service operations. Resource name Resource URI HTTP Service Operation method Registered DME type …/production- capabilities POST Register DME type production capabilities Individual registered DME type …/production-capabilities/ DELETE Deregister DME type production capability {registrationId} PUT Update DME type GET Query DME type

### 7.1.4 Service Operations

#### 7.1.4.1 Register DME type

##### 7.1.4.1.1 Operation definition
The API Consumer uses this operation to register DME type production capabilities. The operation to register the capability to produce a DME type is based on HTTP POST. Consumer ->> Producer: POST …/production-capabilities (DmeTypeRelatedCapabilities) Producer -->> Consumer: 201 Created (DmeTypeRelatedCapabilities) The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP POST request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource (…/production-capabilities) under which the new registration is requested to be created. The message content shall carry a DmeTypeRelatedCapabilities structure. 2. The API Producer shall generate the registration identifier and construct the URI for the created resource. The API Producer shall return the HTTP POST response. On success, “201 Created“ shall be returned. The “Location“ header shall be present and shall carry the URI of the new registration resource. The message content shall carry a DmeTypeRelatedCapabilities structure that represents the new resource. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the message content may contain additional error information.

##### 7.1.4.1.2 Referenced procedures.
7.1.4.1.2.1 Register DME type procedure The Register DME type operation illustrated in figure 7.1.4.1.1-1. is based on the Register DME type procedure defined for the Data registration service in R1GAP [5].

#### 7.1.4.2 Deregister DME type.

##### 7.1.4.2.1 Operation definition
The API Consumer uses this operation to deregister DME type production capabilities. The operation to deregister the capability to produce a DME type is based on HTTP DELETE. Consumer ->> Producer: DELETE …/production-capabilities/{registrationId} Producer -->> Consumer: 204 No Content The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP DELETE request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource to be deleted (…/production-capabilities/{registrationId}). 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP DELETE response. On success, “204 No Content“ shall be returned and the response message content shall be empty. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the message response content may contain additional error information.

##### 7.1.4.2.2 Referenced procedures.
7.1.4.2.2.1 Deregister DME type procedure. The Deregister DME type operation illustrated in figure 7.1.4.2.1-1 is based on the Deregister DME type procedure defined for the Data registration service in R1GAP [5].

#### 7.1.4.3 Update DME type

##### 7.1.4.3.1 Operation definition
The API Consumer uses this operation to update the registration of production capabilities related to a DME type. The operation to update the registration of production capability related to a DME type is based on HTTP PUT. Consumer ->> Producer: PUT …/production-capabilities/{registrationId} (DmeTypeRelatedCapabilities) Producer -->> Consumer: 200 OK (DmeTypeRelatedCapabilities) The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP PUT request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource (…/production-capabilities/{registrationId}). The message content shall carry an updated DmeTypeRelatedCapabilities structure. The API producer shall process the HTTP PUT message and determine if the request sent by the API Consumer is authorized or not. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP response. On success, “200 OK“ shall be returned. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the message content may contain additional error information.

##### 7.1.4.3.2 Referenced procedures.
7.1.4.3.2.1 Update DME type procedure The Update DME type operation illustrated in figure 7.1.4.4.1-1. is based on the Update DME type procedure defined for the Data registration service in R1GAP [5].

#### 7.1.4.4 Query DME type

##### 7.1.4.4.1 Operation definition
The API Consumer uses this operation to query the registration of production capability information on a specific DME type that it has previously registered. The operation to query the registration of production capability is based on HTTP GET. Consumer ->> Producer: GET …/production-capabilities/{registrationId} Producer -->> Consumer: 200 OK (DmeTypeRelatedCapabilities) The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP GET request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource (…/production-capabilities/{registrationId}). The message content shall be empty. The API producer shall process the HTTP GET message and determine if the request sent by the API Consumer is authorized or not. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP response. On success, “200 OK“ shall be returned. The message content shall carry the queried production capability information. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the message content may contain additional error information.

##### 7.1.4.4.2 Referenced procedures.
7.1.4.4.2.1 Query DME type procedure The Query DME type operation illustrated in figure 7.1.4.4.1-1. is based on the Query DME type procedure defined for the Data registration service in R1GAP [5].

### 7.1.5 Resources

#### 7.1.5.1 Overview
The following clause defines the resources for the Data registration API.

#### 7.1.5.2 Resource: "Registered DME type production capabilities"

##### 7.1.5.2.1 Description
The resource represents the registered capabilities of an API Consumer to produce DME types. Only the methods defined in clause 7.1.5.2.3 shall be supported by this resource.

##### 7.1.5.2.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/data-registration/<apiVersion>/production-capabilities The resource URI variables supported by the resource are defined in Table 7.1.5.2.2-1. Name Definition apiRoot See clause 5.2 apiVersion See clause 7.1.2

##### 7.1.5.2.3 Resource Standard Methods
7.1.5.2.3.1 POST This method shall support the request data structure specified in the table 7.1.5.2.3.1-1 and the response data structure and response code specified in the table 7.1.5.2.3.1-2, and the HTTP headers specified in table 7.1.5.2.3.1-3. Data Type P Cardinality Description DmeTypeRelatedCapabilities M 1 Registered capabilities of a Data Producer related to a DME type Data Type P Cardinality Response Description codes DmeTypeRelatedCapabilities M 1 201 Created The operation was successful, and the message content of the POST response contains a DmeTypeProdCapRegistration structure as a representation of the created resource. ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx The operation has failed, and the message content may contain Problem description details. Name Data P Cardinality Description type Location string M 1 Contains the URI of the newly created “Individual registered DME type production capability“ resource, as defined in clause 7.1.5.3, with the registrationId in the URI.

##### 7.1.5.2.4 Resource Custom Operations
None

#### 7.1.5.3 Resource: "Individual registered DME type production capability"

##### 7.1.5.3.1 Description
The resource represents an individual registered DME type production capability. Only the methods defined in clause 7.1.5.3.3 shall be supported by this resource.

##### 7.1.5.3.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/data-registrations/<apiVersion>/production-capabilities/{registrationId} The resource URI variables supported by the resource are defined in Table 7.1.5.3.2-1. Name Definition apiRoot See clause 5.2 apiVersion See clause 7.1.2 registrationId The related DME type production capabilities registration identifier

##### 7.1.5.3.3 Resource Standard Methods
7.1.5.3.3.1 DELETE This method shall support the request data structure specified in table 7.1.5.3.3.1-1 and the response data structure and response code specified in 7.1.5.3.3.1-2. Data type P Cardinality Description N/A A DELETE request has no message content Data type P Cardinality Response codes Description N/A 204 No Content The DME type production capability registration associated with the registrationId has been deleted successfully. The message content shall be empty. ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx The operation has failed, and the message content may contain Problem description details. 7.1.5.3.3.2 PUT This method shall support the request data structure specified in the table 7.1.5.3.3.2-1 and the response data structure and response code specified in the table 7.1.5.3.3.2-2. Data Type P Cardinality Description DmeTypeRelatedCapabilities M 1 Updated DME type production capability information Data Type P Cardinality Response codes Description DmeTypeRelatedCapabilities M 1 200 OK The DME type production capability registration associated with the registrationId has been updated successfully and the response contain the DmeTypeProdCapRegistration as a representation of the updated resource. ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx The operation has failed, and the message content may contain Problem description details. 7.1.5.3.3.3 GET This method shall support the request data structure specified in the table 7.1.5.3.3.3-1 and the response data structure and response code specified in the table 7.1.5.3.3.3-2. Data Type P Cardinality Description N/A A GET request has no message content Data Type P Cardinality Response codes Description DmeTypeRelatedCapabilities M 1 200 OK The DME type production capability registration associated with the registrationId has been queried successfully and the response contain the DmeTypeProdCapRegistration as a representation of the query resource. ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx The operation has failed, and the message content may contain Problem description details.

##### 7.1.5.3.4 Resource Custom Operations
None.

### 7.1.6 Custom operation without associated resources.
None.

### 7.1.7 Notifications
None.

### 7.1.8 Data Model

#### 7.1.8.1 Structured data types

##### 7.1.8.1.1 Overview
The following clauses define the structured data types and their attributes to be used by the service API.

##### 7.1.8.1.2 Data type: DmeTypeRelatedCapabilities
The DmeTypeRelatedCapabilities data type represents capabilities of a data provider entity (such as Data Producer, SME functions) related to providing data instances of a DME type for collection or consumption. It contains the attributes defined in table 7.1.8.1.2-1. Attribute Name Data type P Cardinality Description dmeTypeDefinition DmeTypeDefinition M 1 Information of the DME type. dataAccessEndpoint Interface Description O 0..1 Endpoint to which to send the data request or data subscription for data instances of this DME type. This attribute shall be provided in data registration requests and responses related to data registration. It may be provided in data discovery responses. If this information is not provided, the data access endpoint can be discovered by means outside the scope of the of the DME services. dataDeliveryMode array(DataDeliveryMode) M 1..N Supported modes for data delivery for this DME type, i.e. one time (data request) or continuous (data subscription) or both. constraints object O 0..1 When this data structure is used for registration, this attribute represents producer constraints related to the DME type based on the dataProductionSchema. When this data structure is used for discovery, this attribute represents constraints applicable to the consumption of data instances of this DME type based on the dataProductionSchema

##### 7.1.8.1.3 Data type: DmeTypeDefinition
The DmeTypeDefinition data type represents information about a DME type. It contains the attributes defined in table 7.1.8.1.3- 1. Attribute Name Data type P Cardinality Description dmeTypeId DmeTypeIdStruct M 1 The identifier of the DME type being registered. metadata Metadata M 1 Metadata that can be used in discovering the DME type. dataProductionSchema object O 0..1 Schema that defines the information necessary to formulate a data request or data subscription. If this attribute is not present, the schema is assumed to be known from the DME type definition that is referenced by dmeTypeId (see note). dataDeliverySchemas array (DeliverySchema) M 1.. N List of delivery schemas supported by the producer for the DME type being registered (see note). dataDeliveryMechanisms array M 1.. N see clause B.4.4.2 (DataDeliveryMechanism)
> NOTE: The schemas for data production and data delivery are DME type specific and are not defined in the present
version of the document.

##### 7.1.8.1.4 Data type: Metadata
The Metadata data type contains the attributes defined in table 7.1.8.1.4-1 and the set of metadata attributes may be extended by deployments. Attribute Name Data type P Cardinality Description dataCategory array(string) M 1.. N Defines the category of the DME type e.g., PM counters. rat array(string) O 0.. N Defines the radio access technology e.g., 5G.

##### 7.1.8.1.5 Data type: DeliverySchema
The DeliverySchema data type contains the attributes defined in table 7.1.8.1.5-1. Attribute Name Data type P Cardinality Description type SchemaTypes M 1 Type of the schema. deliverySchemaId string M 1 A Data Producer may support one or more delivery schemas and for each supported schema type a delivery schema identifier is assigned. A Data Consumer uses this attribute while creating a data job and request to deliver the data using specific schema type which is identified by this attribute. schema string O 0..1 The schema serialized to string. If this attribute is not present, the schema is assumed to be known from the DME type definition that is referenced by the DME type identifier.

#### 7.1.8.2 Simple data types and enumerations

##### 7.1.8.2.1 Introduction
This clause defines simple data types and enumerations that can be referenced from data structures defined in the previous clauses.

##### 7.1.8.2.2 Simple data types
No simple data types are defined in this version of the specification.

##### 7.1.8.2.3 Enumeration
7.1.8.2.3.1 Enumeration: SchemaTypes Enumeration value Description JSON_SCHEMA Following JSON Schema 2020-12 [14]. XML_SCHEMA Following XML Schema [16], [17], [18] and [i.1]. PROTOBUF_SCHEMA Following PROTOBUF Schema [27]. AVRO_SCHEMA Following AVRO Schema [28].

#### 7.1.8.3 Re-used data types
None.

#### 7.1.8.4 Service-specific registration information
None.

### 7.1.9 Error Handling

#### 7.1.9.1 General
In addition to the general provisions in clause 5.4.3, the requirements in the following clauses are applicable for the Data Registration API.

#### 7.1.9.2 Protocol Errors
No specific protocol errors are defined in the present document.

#### 7.1.9.3 Application Errors
No additional application errors defined in the present document.

## 7.2 Data discovery API

### 7.2.1 Introduction
This API enables the API Consumer to discover the available DME types based on the data discovery service procedures defined in R1GAP [5].

### 7.2.2 API version
For the data discovery API as specified in the present document, the MAJOR version field shall be 2, the MINOR version field shall be 0 and the PATCH version field shall be 0 (see 3GPP TS 29.501 [1] for a definition of the version fields). Consequently, the <apiVersion> URI path segment shall be set to “v2“.

### 7.2.3 Resource structure and methods
The request URIs used in HTTP requests from the API Consumer towards the API Producer shall have the resource URI structure as defined in clause 5.2. The <apiName> resource URI variable shall be “datadiscovery“. The <apiSpecificResourceUriPart> for each resource shall be set as described in clause 7.2.5. {apiRoot}/data-discovery/<apiVersion> /dme-types /{dmeTypeId} operations. Resource name Resource URI HTTP method Service Operation All DME types …/dme-types GET Discover DME types Individual DME types …/dme-types/{dmeTypeId} GET Query capabilities related to a DME type

### 7.2.4 Service operations

#### 7.2.4.1 Discover DME types.

##### 7.2.4.1.1 Operation definition
The API Consumer uses this operation to discover the available DME types. The operation to discover the DME types is based on HTTP GET. Consumer ->> Producer: GET …/dme-types Producer -->> Consumer: 200 OK (array(DmeTypeRelatedCapabilities)) The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP GET request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource (…/dme-types) and may also contain query parameters to discover the available DME types. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP GET response. On success, “200 OK“ shall be returned and the message content shall carry an array of Dme type related capabilities. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message content may contain additional error information.

##### 7.2.4.1.2 Referenced procedures.
7.2.4.1.2.1 Discover DME types procedure. The Discover DME types operation illustrated in figure 7.2.4.1.1-1 is based on the Discover DME types procedure defined for the Data discovery service in R1GAP [5].

#### 7.2.4.2 Query DME type information

##### 7.2.4.2.1 Operation definition
The API Consumer uses this operation to query for information about a specific DME type identified by a DME type identifier. The operation to query for information about a specific DME type is based on HTTP GET. Consumer ->> Producer: GET …/dme-types/{dmeTypeId} Producer -->> Consumer: 200 OK (DmeTypeRelatedCapabilities) The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP GET request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource (…/dme-types/{dmeTypeId}) and the message content shall be empty. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP GET response. On success, “200 OK“ shall be returned and the message content shall carry capability information related to the DME type identified by {dmeTypeId}. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message content may contain additional error information.

##### 7.2.4.2.2 Referenced procedures.
7.2.4.2.2.1 Query DME type information procedure The Query DME type operation illustrated in figure 7.2.4.2.1-1 is based on the Query DME type information procedure defined for the Data discovery service in R1GAP [5].

### 7.2.5 Resources

#### 7.2.5.1 Overview
The following clause defines the resources for the Data discovery API.

#### 7.2.5.2 Resource: "All DME types"

##### 7.2.5.2.1 Description
The resource represents the available DME types. Only the methods defined in clause 7.2.5.2.3 shall be supported by this resource.

##### 7.2.5.2.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/data-discovery/<apiVersion>/dme-types The resource URI variables supported by the resource are defined in Table 7.2.5.2.2-1. Name Definition apiRoot See clause 5.2 . apiVersion See clause 7.2.2.

##### 7.2.5.2.3 Resource Standard Methods
7.2.5.2.3.1 GET This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table 7.2.5.2.3.1-1, the request data structure specified in the table 7.2.5.2.3.1-2 and the response data structure and response code specified in the table 7.2.5.2.3.1-3. Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability identity-namespace string O 0..1 Identity namespace, which shall match the “namespace“ part of the “dmeTypeId“ attribute. (See NOTE1) identity-name string O 0..1 Identity name, which shall match the “name“ part of the “dmeTypeId“ attribute. (See NOTE1). data-category array(string) O 0..N Set of data category entries, all of which shall match entries of the “dataCategory“ attribute. (See NOTE1 and NOTE 2).
> NOTE 1: If multiple query parameters are provided these shall be combined with AND when evaluating the query.
> NOTE 2: The encoding of query parameter for array of string shall follow the guideline defined in 3GPP TS 29.501 [1]
clause 5.3.13. Data Type P Cardinality Description N/A There is no object in the message content of the GET request Data Type P Cardinality Response Description codes array (DmeTypeRelatedCapabilities) M 0.. N 200 OK The operation was successful. The message content of the GET response carries an array of DmeTypeRelatedCapabilities structures. ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx The operation has failed, and the message content may contain Problem description details.

##### 7.2.5.2.4 Resource Custom Operations
None.

#### 7.2.5.3 Resource: "Individual DME type"

##### 7.2.5.3.1 Description
The resource represents a DME type.

##### 7.2.5.3.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/data-discovery/<apiVersion>/dme-types/{dmeTypeId} The resource URI variables supported by the resource are defined in Table 7.2.5.3.2-1. Name Definition apiRoot See clause 5.2 apiVersion See clause 7.2.2 dmeTypeId DME type identifier identifying a DME type

##### 7.2.5.3.3 Resource Standard Methods
7.2.5.3.3.1 GET This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table 7.2.5.3.3.1-1, the request data structure specified in table 7.2.5.3.3.1-2 and the response data structure and response code specified in 7.2.5.3.3.1-3. Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability N/A Data type P Cardinality Description N/A The message content of a GET request is empty. Data type P Cardinality Response Description codes DmeTypeRelatedCapabilities M 1 200 OK The operation was successful. The message content a DmeTypeRelatedCapabilities structure. ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx The operation has failed, and the message content may contain Problem description details.

##### 7.2.5.3.4 Resource Custom Operations
None.

### 7.2.6 Custom operation without associated resources.
None.

### 7.2.7 Notifications
None.

### 7.2.8 Data Model

#### 7.2.8.1 Structured data types

##### 7.2.8.1.1 Overview
The following clause defines the structured data types and their attributes to be used by the service API. For this service API, no structured data types are defined in the present document.

#### 7.2.8.2 Simple data types and enumerations

##### 7.2.8.2.1 Introduction
The following clause defines simple data types and enumerations that can be referenced from data structures defined in the previous clauses.

##### 7.2.8.2.2 Simple data types
For this service API, no simple data types are defined in the present document.

##### 7.2.8.2.3 Enumerations
For this service API, no enumerations are defined in the present document.

#### 7.2.8.3 Re-used data types
None.

#### 7.2.8.4 Service-specific registration information
None.

### 7.2.9 Error Handling

#### 7.2.9.1 General
In addition to the general provisions in clause 5.4.3, the requirements in the following clauses are applicable for the Data Discovery API.

#### 7.2.9.2 Protocol Errors
No specific protocol errors are defined in the present document.

#### 7.2.9.3 Application Errors
No additional application errors defined in the present document.

## 7.3 Data access API

### 7.3.1 Introduction
This API enables the API Consumer to request or subscribe data instances based on the Data request service and Data subscription service procedures defined in R1GAP [5]. The API definition applies to both scenarios when rApp is the Service Consumer and when DME is the Service Consumer, respectively.

### 7.3.2 API version
For the Data access API as specified in the present document, the MAJOR version field shall be 2, the MINOR version field shall be 0 and the PATCH version field shall be 0 (see 3GPP TS 29.501 [1]for a definition of the version fields). Consequently, the <apiVersion> URI path segment shall be set to “v2“. The API is under development and consequently the API version shall include the pre-release version “alpha.2“.

### 7.3.3 Resource structure and methods
The request URIs used in HTTP requests from the API Consumer towards the API Producer shall have the resource URI structure as defined in clause 5.2. The <apiName> resource URI variable shall be “data-access“. The <apiSpecificResourceUriPart> for each resource shall be set as described in clause 7.3.5. {apiRoot}/data-access/<apiVersion>/ /data-jobs /{dataJobId} /status operations. Resource name Resource URI HTTP Service Operation method All data jobs …/data-jobs POST Create an individual data job GET Query data job identifiers Individual data job …/data-jobs/{dataJobId} DELETE Cancel data job PUT Update data job GET Query data job Individual data job status …/data-jobs/{dataJobId}/status GET Query data Job status

### 7.3.4 Service Operations

#### 7.3.4.1 Create data job

##### 7.3.4.1.1 Operation definition
The API Consumer uses Create data job operation to create the job for data request or subscription. A data job can be either for data request or data subscription.
> NOTE: An API Producer supporting the Data access API shall support at least one type of the services, data request (one time
delivery mode) or data subscription (continuous delivery mode). The mean for communicating the service support capabilities with API Consumers is not specified in this version of the specification. The operations are based on HTTP POST. Consumer ->> Producer: POST …/data-jobs (DataJobInfo) Producer -->> Consumer: 201 Created (DataJobInfo) The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP POST request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource (…/data-jobs) under which the new data job is to be created. The message content shall carry a DataJobInfo. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP POST response. On success, “201 Created“ shall be returned. The Location header shall be present and shall carry the URI of the new data job resource with dataJobId assigned by the service producer. The message content shall carry a DataJobInfo representing the created data job. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the message content may contain additional error information.

##### 7.3.4.1.2 Referenced procedures
7.3.4.1.2.1 Request data procedure The Create data job operation illustrated in figure 7.3.4.1.1-1 is based on the Request data procedure defined for the Data request service in R1GAP [5]. 7.3.4.1.2.2 Subscribe data procedure The Create data job operation illustrated in figure 7.3.4.1.1-1 is based on the Subscribe data procedure defined for the Data subscription service in R1GAP [5].

#### 7.3.4.2 Cancel data job

##### 7.3.4.2.1 Operation definition
The API Consumer uses Cancel data job operation to cancel a data job. The operations are based on HTTP DELETE. Consumer ->> Producer: DELETE …/data-jobs/{dataJobId} Producer -->> Consumer: 204 No Content The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP DELETE request to API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource (…/data-jobs/{dataJobId}). 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP DELETE response. On success, “204 No Content“ shall be returned. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the message content may contain additional error information.

##### 7.3.4.2.2 Referenced procedures
7.3.4.2.2.1 Cancel data request procedure The Cancel data job operation illustrated in figure 7.3.4.2.1-1 is based on the cancel data request procedure defined for the Data request service in R1GAP [5]. 7.3.4.2.2.2 Unsubscribe data procedure The Cancel data job operation illustrated in figure 7.3.4.2.1-1 is based on the Unsubscribe data procedure defined for the Data subscription service in R1GAP [5].

#### 7.3.4.3 Notify data availability

##### 7.3.4.3.1 Operation definition
The API Producer uses this operation to notify data availability related to a data subscription. The operation is based on HTTP POST. Producer ->> Consumer: POST {dataAvailabilityNotficationUri} (DataAvailabilityNotification) Consumer -->> Producer : 204 No Content The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Producer shall send an HTTP POST request to API Consumer. The target URI (dataAvailabilityNotificationUri) identifies the address where to send the notifications. The message content shall carry a DataAvailabilityNotification. 2. The API Consumer shall return the HTTP POST response. On success, “204 No Content“ shall be returned. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the message content may contain additional error information.

##### 7.3.4.3.2 Referenced procedures
7.3.4.3.2.1 Notify data availability procedure The Notify data job availability operation illustrated in figure 7.3.4.3.1-1 is based on the Notify data availability procedure defined for the Data subscription service in R1GAP [5].

#### 7.3.4.4 Update data job

##### 7.3.4.4.1 Operation definition
The API Consumer uses this operation to update the created job for data subscription. The operation to update a data job is based on HTTP PUT. Consumer ->> Producer: PUT ……/data-jobs/{dataJobId} (DataJobInfo) Producer -->> Consumer: 200 OK (DataJobInfo) The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP PUT request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource (…/data-jobs/{dataJobId}). The message content shall carry an update DataJobInfo structure. The API Producer shall process the HTTP PUT message and determine if the request sent by the API Consumer is authorized or not. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP response. On success, “200 OK“ shall be returned. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the message content may contain additional error information. 3. The API Producer shall reject the update data job with “405 Method Not Allowed“ if the dataJobId in the target URI is associated with delivery mode “ONE_TIME“.
> NOTE: Updating the Data Job can introduce discontinuities in the produced data that are specific to the DME type and/or
Data Producer.

##### 7.3.4.4.2 Referenced procedures
7.3.4.3.2.1 Update data job procedure The Update data job operation illustrated in figure 7.3.4.4.1-1. is based on the Update data subscription procedure defined for the Data subscription service in R1GAP [5].

#### 7.3.4.5 Query data job

##### 7.3.4.5.1 Operation definition
The API Consumer uses this operation to query the created job. The operation to query the data job is based on HTTP GET. Consumer ->> Producer: GET ……/data-jobs/{dataJobId} Producer -->> Consumer: 200 OK (DataJobInfo) The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP GET request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource (……/data-jobs/{dataJobId}). The message content shall be empty. The API producer shall process the HTTP GET message and determine if the request sent by the API Consumer is authorized or not. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP response. On success, “200 OK“ shall be returned. The message content shall carry the queried data job information. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the message content may contain additional error information.

##### 7.3.4.5.2 Referenced procedures.
7.3.4.5.2.1 Query data job procedure The Query data job operation illustrated in figure 7.3.4.5.1-1. is based on the Query data subscription procedure defined for the Data subscription service in R1GAP [5].

#### 7.3.4.6 Query data job status

##### 7.3.4.6.1 Operation definition
The API Consumer uses this operation to query the data job status. The operation to query the data job is based on HTTP GET. Consumer ->> Producer: GET ……/data-jobs/{dataJobId}/status Producer -->> Consumer: 200 OK (DataJobStatusInfo) The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP GET request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource (……/data-jobs/{dataJobId}/status). The message content shall be empty. The API producer shall process the HTTP GET message and determine if the request sent by the API Consumer is authorized or not. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP response. On success, “200 OK“ shall be returned. The message content shall carry the queried data job status information. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the message content may contain additional error information.

##### 7.3.4.6.2 Referenced procedures.
7.3.4.6.2.1 Query data job procedure The Query data job status operation illustrated in figure 7.3.4.6.1-1. is based on the Query data subscription status procedure defined for the Data subscription service in R1GAP [5].

#### 7.3.4.7 Query data job identifiers

##### 7.3.4.7.1 Operation definition
The API Consumer uses Query data job identifiers operation to get the data job identifiers for all the jobs that are created for the specific API consumer. A data job can be either for data request or data subscription. The operations are based on HTTP GET. Consumer ->> Producer: GET …/data-jobs Producer -->> Consumer: 200 OK (array(dataJobId)) The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP GET request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource (……/data-jobs/). The message content shall be empty. The API producer shall process the HTTP GET message and determine if the request sent by the API Consumer is authorized or not. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP response. On success, “200 OK“ shall be returned. The message content shall carry an array of data job identifiers (dataJobId) created by the API Consumer. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the message content may contain additional error information.

##### 7.3.4.7.2 Referenced procedures.
7.3.4. 7.2.1 Query data job identifiers procedure The Query data job identifiers operation illustrated in figure 7.3.4.7.1-1. is based on the Query data subscription procedure defined for the Data subscription service in R1GAP [5].

### 7.3.5 Resources

#### 7.3.5.1 Overview
This clause defines the resources for the Data access API.

#### 7.3.5.2 Resource: "All data jobs"

##### 7.3.5.2.1 Description
The resource All data jobs represents all data jobs created by a particular consumer. Only the methods defined in clause 7.3.5.2.3 shall be supported by these resources.

##### 7.3.5.2.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/data-access/<apiVersion>/data-jobs The resource URI variables supported by the resource are defined in Table 7.3.5.2.2-1. Name Definition apiRoot See clause 5.2. apiVersion See clause 7.3.2.

##### 7.3.5.2.3 Resource Standard Methods
7.3.5.2.3.1 POST This method shall support the request data structure specified in the table 7.3.5.2.3.1-1, and the response data structure and response code specified in the table 7.3.5.2.3.1-2. Data Type P Cardinality Description DataJobInfo M 1 Provides information for the data job to be created. Data Type P Cardinality Response Description codes DataJobInfo M 1 201 Created The operation was successful. The message content of the POST response contains a DataJobInfo representing the created resource. ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx The operation was unsuccessful. Detailed problem description may be carried in the response message content. Name Data P Cardinality Description type Location String M 1 Contains the URI of the newly created resource as defined in clause 7.3.5.2.2. 7.3.5.2.3.2 GET This method shall support the request data structure specified in table 7.3.5.2.3.2 -1 and the response data structure and response code specified in 7.3.5.2.3.2 -2. Data type P Cardinality Description N/A There is no object in the message content of a GET request. Data type P Cardinality Response Description codes array(dataJobId) M 0..N 200 OK All data job identifiers. ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx Detailed problem description.

##### 7.3.5.2.4 Resource Custom Operations
None.

#### 7.3.5.3 Resource: "Individual data job"

##### 7.3.5.3.1 Description
The resource Individual data job represents an individual data job for a data request or data subscription. Only the methods defined in clause 7.3.5.3.3 shall be supported by these resources.

##### 7.3.5.3.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/data-access/<apiVersion>/data-jobs/{dataJobId} The resource URI variables supported by the resource are defined in Table 7.3.5.3.2-1. Name Definition apiRoot See clause 5.2. apiVersion See clause 7.3.2. dataJobId The data job identifier assigned by the Service Producer.

##### 7.3.5.3.3 Resource Standard Methods
7.3.5.3.3.1 DELETE This method shall support the request data structure specified in table 7.3.5.3.3.1-1 and the response data structure and response code specified in 7.3.5.3.3.1-2. Data type P Cardinality Description N/A There is no object in the message content of a DELETE request. Data type P Cardinality Response codes Description N/A 204 No content The operation was successful. The data request has been cancelled. ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx The operation was unsuccessful. Detailed problem description may be carried in the response message content. 7.3.5.3.3.2 PUT This method shall support the request data structure specified in table 7.3.5.3.3.2-1 and the response data structure and response code specified in 7.3.5.3.3.2-2. Data type P Cardinality Description DataJobInfo M 1 Provides update data job information. Data type P Cardinality Response code Description DataJobInfo M 1 200 OK The operation was successful. Data job information updated successfully. ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx The operation was unsuccessful. Detailed problem description may be carried in the response message content. 7.3.5.3.3.3 GET This method shall support the request data structure specified in table 7.3.5.3.3.3-1 and the response data structure and response code specified in 7.3.5.3.3.3-2. Data type P Cardinality Description N/A There is no object in the message content of a GET request. Data type P Cardinality Response code Description DataJobInfo M 1 200 OK The operation was successful. ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx The operation was unsuccessful. Detailed problem description may be carried in the response message content.

##### 7.3.5.3.4 Resource Custom Operations
. None

#### 7.3.5.4 Resource: "Individual data job status"

##### 7.3.5.4.1 Description
The resource Individual data job status represents an individual data job status for a data request or data subscription. Only the methods defined in clause 7.3.5.4.3 shall be supported by these resources.

##### 7.3.5.4.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/data-access/<apiVersion>/data-jobs/{dataJobId}/status The resource URI variables supported by the resource are defined in Table 7.3.5.4.2-1. Name Definition apiRoot See clause 5.2. apiVersion See clause 7.3.2. dataJobId The data job identifier assigned by the Service Producer.

##### 7.3.5.4.3 Resource Standard Methods
7.3.5.4.3.1 GET This method shall support the request data structure specified in table 7.3.5.4.3.3-1 and the response data structure and response code specified in 7.3.5.4.3.3-2. Data type P Cardinality Description N/A There is no object in the message content of a GET request. Data type P Cardinality Response code Description DataJobSatatusInfo M 1 200 OK The operation was successful. ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx The operation was unsuccessful. Detailed problem description may be carried in the response message content.

##### 7.3.5.4.4 Resource Custom Operations
. None

### 7.3.6 Custom operation without associated resources.
None.

### 7.3.7 Notifications

#### 7.3.7.1 Notify data availability.

##### 7.3.7.1.1 Description
The notification informs the receiver about the availability of data for a data subscription and provides details about how to access them.

##### 7.3.7.1.2 Resource Definition
The Resource URI is a callback URI provided when creating a data job for data subscription.

##### 7.3.7.1.3 Resource Standard Methods
7.3.7.1.3.1 POST This method shall support the request data structures specified in table 7.3.7.1.3.1-1 and the response data structure and response codes specified in table 7.3.7.1.3.1-2. Data type P Cardinality Description DataAvailabilityNotification M 1 Notify data availability Data type P Cardinality Response codes Description N/A 204 No content Confirmation of received notification ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx The operation was unsuccessful. Detailed problem description may be carried in the response message content.

### 7.3.8 Data Model

#### 7.3.8.1 Structured data types

##### 7.3.8.1.1 Overview
The following clauses define the data type and attributes to be used in the resource representation.

##### 7.3.8.1.2 Data type: DataJobInfo
The DataJobInfo contains the attributes defined in table 7.3.8.1.2-1. Attribute Name Data type P Cardinality Description dataDeliveryMode DataDeliveryMode M 1 See clause 7.3.8.2.3.1. dmeTypeId DmeTypeId M 1 See clause B.4.2. productionJobDefinition object M 1 Job description based on the DME type specific dataProductionSchema. dataDeliveryMethod DataDeliveryMethod M 1 See clause B.4.3.1. dataDeliverySchemaId string M 1 A delivery schema identifier provided by a Data Producer during the data registration procedure. pullDeliveryDetailsHttp PullDeliveryDetailsHttp C 0..1 See clause 7.3.8.1.3 (See NOTE 1). dataAvailabilityNotificationUri Uri C 0..1 Callback URI for data availability notifications (See NOTE 2). pushDeliveryDetailsHttp PushDeliveryDetailsHttp C 0..1 See clause 7.3.8.1.4 (See NOTE 3). streamingConfigurationKafka StreamingConfigurationKafka C 0..1 See clause 7.3.8.1.6 (See NOTE 4). dataJobInfoStatus ProcessMonitor C 0..1 ProcessMonitor datatype is specified in 3GPPTS 28.622 [21] clause 4.3.43. (See NOTE 5)
> NOTE 1: If dataDeliveryMethod is PULL_HTTP and dataDeliveryMode is ONE_TIME, the pullDeliveryDetailsHttp attribute
shall be present in the Create data job response.
> NOTE 2: if dataDeliveryMethod is PULL_HTTP, and dataDeliveryMode is CONTINOUS, the dataAvailabilityNotificationUri
attribute shall be present in the Create data job request and Create data job response.
> NOTE 3: If dataDeliveryMethod is PUSH_HTTP, the pushDeliveryDetailsHttp attribute shall be present in the Create data
job request and Create data job response.
> NOTE 4: If dataDeliveryMethod is STREAMING_KAFKA, the streamingConfigurationKafka attribute shall be present in the
Create data job request sent by the DME as API Consumer and in the Create data job response sent by the DME as API Producer. If the streamingConfigurationKafka attribute is present in the Create data job request, it shall be present in the corresponding Create data job response.
> NOTE 5 : When API Consumer requesting the datajob, the dataJobInfoStatus shall not present in the request. When API
Producer creating a data job the response shall include the DataJobInfo with dataJobInfoStatus.

##### 7.3.8.1.3 Data type: PullDeliveryDetailsHttp
The PullDeliveryDetailsHttp data type signals how to pull data using the HTTP protocol. It contains the attributes defined in table 7.3.8.1.3-1. Attribute Name Data type P Cardinality Description dataPullUri Uri M 1 URI which data can be pulled from.

##### 7.3.8.1.4 Data type: PushDeliveryDetailsHttp
The PushDeliveryDetailsHttp data type signals how to push data using the HTTP protocol. It contains the attributes defined in table 7.3.8.1.4-1. Attribute Name Data type P Cardinality Description dataPushUri Uri M 1 URI to which data can be pushed.

##### 7.3.8.1.5 Data type: DataAvailabilityNotification
The DataAvailabilityNotification contains the attributes defined in table 7.3.8.1.5-1. Attribute Name Data type P Cardinality Description dataJobId string M 1 Data job identifier. pullDeliveryDetailsHttp PullDeliveryDetailsHttp C 0..1 See clause 7.3.8.2.3.2. If the dataDeliveryMechanism attribute of the data job identified by the dataJobId attribute is PULL_HTTP, this attribute shall be included. Otherwise, it shall be absent.

##### 7.3.8.1.6 Data type: StreamingConfigurationKafka
The StreamingConfigurationKafka data type signals a data streaming configuration for the Kafka protocol. It contains the attributes defined in table 7.3.8.1.6-1. Attribute Name Data type P Cardinality Description topicName string M 1 Name of the Kafka topic. kafkaBootstrapServers array M 1.. N See clause 7.3.8.1.7. (ServerAddressWithPort)

##### 7.3.8.1.7 Data type: ServerAddressWithPort
The ServerAddressWithPort contains the attributes defined in table 7.3.8.1.7-1. Attribute Name Data type P Cardinality Description hostname string M 1 hostname shall follow DNS naming convention as defined in IETF RFC 1035. portAddress integer M 1 Port address, e.g., 9092.

#### 7.3.8.2 Simple data types and enumerations

##### 7.3.8.2.1 Introduction
This clause defines simple data types and enumerations that can be referenced from data structures defined in the previous clauses.

##### 7.3.8.2.2 Simple data types
None.

##### 7.3.8.2.3 Enumerations
7.3.8.2.3.1 Enumeration: DataDeliveryMode This indicates whether the data instance is created in a one-time data delivery (data request) or continuously (data subscription). Enumerations Value Description ONE_TIME indicate the data job to be created is for on-time data delivery, i.e., for data request. CONTINUOUS indicate the data job to be created is for continuous data delivery, i.e., for data subscription. 7.3.8.2.3.2 Void

#### 7.3.8.3 Re-used data types
None.

#### 7.3.8.4 Service-specific registration information
The following structure defines the content of the “serviceCapabilities“ attribute in the “ServiceProperties“ data type (see clause B.3.4.2) for registration and discovery of this service. Attribute Name Data type P Cardinality Description supportedDataDeliveryModes array(DataDeliveryMode) M 1..N Indicates whether one-time or continuous data delivery, or both, are supported by the service.

### 7.3.9 Error Handling

#### 7.3.9.1 General
For the Data access API, HTTP error responses shall be supported as specified in 3GPP TS 29.501 [1]. Protocol errors and application errors specified in 3GPP TS 29.500 [2], table 5.2.7.2-1, shall be supported for an HTTP method if the corresponding HTTP status codes are specified as mandatory for that HTTP method in 3GPP TS 29.500 [2], table 5.2.7.1-1. In addition, the requirements in the following clauses are applicable for the Data access API.

#### 7.3.9.2 Protocol Errors
No specific protocol errors are defined in the present document.

#### 7.3.9.3 Application Errors
No additional application errors defined in the present document.

## 7.4 HTTP based Push data API

### 7.4.1 Introduction
This API enables the API Producer to push data to the API Consumer based on the Push data service procedures defined in R1GAP [5]. The API definition applies to both scenarios when rApp is the Service Consumer and when DME is the Service Consumer, respectively.

### 7.4.2 API version
For the Push data API as specified in the present document, the MAJOR version field shall be 1, the MINOR version field shall be 0 and the PATCH version field shall be 0 (see 3GPP TS 29.501 [1] for a definition of the version fields).

### 7.4.3 Resource structure and methods
The resource URI is a callback URI provided when creating a data job or data offer.

### 7.4.4 Service Operations

#### 7.4.4.1 Push data

##### 7.4.4.1.1 Operation definition
The API Producer uses Push data operation to push data payload to the API Consumer. The operation is based on HTTP POST. Producer ->> Consumer: POST {dataPushUri}(data payload) Consumer -->> Producer: 204 No Content The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Producer shall send an HTTP POST request to the API Consumer. The target URI (dataPushUri) identifies the destination for pushing data to. The message content shall carry the data payload. The Content-Type header shall be present and set to the exact media type of the data payload. 2. The API Consumer shall return the HTTP POST response. On success,“204 No Content“ shall be returned. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the message content may contain additional error information.

##### 7.4.4.1.2 Referenced procedures.
7.4.4.1.2.1 Push data procedure The Push data operation illustrated in figure 7.4.4.1.1-1 is based on the Push data procedure defined for the Push data service in R1GAP [5].

### 7.4.5 Resources

#### 7.4.5.1 Overview
This clause defines the resources for the Push data API.

#### 7.4.5.2 Resource: "Push delivery URI"

##### 7.4.5.2.1 Description
The resource represents the destination for pushing data to.

##### 7.4.5.2.2 Resource Definition
The resource URI is a callback URI provided in the “PushDeliveryDetailsHttp“ data structure when creating a data job for data subscription or a data offer.

##### 7.4.5.2.3 Resource Standard Methods
7.4.5.2.3.1 POST The method shall support carrying the data payload in the request body. The format of the data payload and Content-Type header are determined by the data message schema. The method shall support the response data structures and response codes specified in table 7.4.5.2.3.1-1. Data type P Cardinality Response codes Description N/A 204 No content Confirmation of received data delivery. ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx The operation was unsuccessful. Detailed problem description may be carried in the response message content.

##### 7.4.5.2.4 Resource Custom Operations
None.

### 7.4.6 Custom operation without associated resources.
None.

### 7.4.7 Notifications
None.

### 7.4.8 Data Model

#### 7.4.8.1 Structured data types
None.

#### 7.4.8.2 Simple data types and enumerations
None.

#### 7.4.8.3 Re-used data types
None.

#### 7.4.8.4 Service-specific registration information
None.

### 7.4.9 Error Handling

#### 7.4.9.1 General
For the Push data API, HTTP error responses shall be supported as specified in 3GPP TS 29.501 [1]. Protocol errors and application errors specified in 3GPP TS 29.500 [2], table 5.2.7.2-1, shall be supported for an HTTP method if the corresponding HTTP status codes are specified as mandatory for that HTTP method in 3GPP TS 29.500 [2], table 5.2.7.1-1. In addition, the requirements in the following clauses are applicable for the Push data API.

#### 7.4.9.2 Protocol Errors
No specific protocol errors are defined in the present document.

#### 7.4.9.3 Application Errors
No additional application errors defined in the present document.

## 7.5 HTTP based Pull data API

### 7.5.1 Introduction
This API enables the API Consumer to pull data from the API Producer based on the Pull data service procedures defined in R1GAP [5]. The API definition applies to both scenarios when rApp is the Service Consumer and when DME is the Service Consumer, respectively.

### 7.5.2 API version
For the Pull data API as specified in the present document, the MAJOR version field shall be 1, the MINOR version field shall be 0 and the PATCH version field shall be 0 (see 3GPP TS 29.501 [1] for a definition of the version fields).

### 7.5.3 Resource structure and methods
The resource URI is a target URI provided when creating a data job for data request or a data offer, or when notifying the data availability for data subscription.

### 7.5.4 Service Operations

#### 7.5.4.1 Pull data.

##### 7.5.4.1.1 Operation definition
The API Consumer uses Pull data operation to pull data payload from the API Producer. The operation is based on HTTP GET. Consumer ->> Producer: GET {dataPullUri} Producer -->> Consumer: 200 OK (data payload) else data not ready Producer -->> Consumer: 202 Accepted end The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP GET request to the API Producer. The target URI (dataPullUri) identifies the destination for pulling data from. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP GET response. On success, “200 OK“ shall be returned, the message content shall carry the data payload. The Content-Type header shall be present and set to the exact media type of the data payload. 3. If the data payload is not ready yet, “202 Accepted“ shall be returned, with the Retry-After header optionally provided to indicate how long the API Consumer should wait before making a follow-up request. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the message content may contain additional error information.

##### 7.5.4.1.2 Referenced procedures.
7.5.4.1.2.1 Pull data procedure The Pull data operation illustrated in figure 7.5.4.1.1-1 is based on the Retrieve data procedure defined for the Pull data service in R1GAP [5].

### 7.5.5 Resources

#### 7.5.5.1 Overview
This clause defines the resources for the Pull data API.

#### 7.5.5.2 Resource: "Pull delivery URI"

##### 7.5.5.2.1 Description
The resource represents the destination for pulling data from.

##### 7.5.5.2.2 Resource Definition
The resource URI is a target URI provided in the “PullDeliveryDetailsHttp“ data structure when creating a data job for data request or a data offer, or when notifying the data availability for data subscription.

##### 7.5.5.2.3 Resource Standard Methods
7.5.5.2.3.1 GET This method shall support the request data structures specified in table 7.5.5.2.3.1-1 the response data structures and response codes specified in table 7.5.5.2.3.1-2 and the HTTP response headers as defined in table 7.5.5.2.3.1-3. Data type P Cardinality Description NA There is no object in the message content of a GET request. Data type P Cardinality Response codes Description N/A 200 OK Carry data payload in the response body. N/A 202 Accepted Data payload is not ready, retry later and the response body shall be empty. ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx The operation was unsuccessful. Detailed problem description may be carried in the response message content. The method shall support carrying the data payload in the response body of the “200OK“ response. The format of the data payload and Content-Type header are determined by the data message schema. Name Data P Cardinality Description type Retry-After string O 0..1 Indicates to the API Consumer the length of the time interval to wait until sending the next request, or the point in time when such request should earliest be sent. The format is defined in IETF RFC 9110 [25].

##### 7.5.5.2.4 Resource Custom Operations
None.

### 7.5.6 Custom operation without associated resources.
None.

### 7.5.7 Notifications
None.

### 7.5.8 Data Model

#### 7.5.8.1 Structured data types
None.

#### 7.5.8.2 Simple data types and enumerations
None.

#### 7.5.8.3 Re-used data types
None.

#### 7.5.8.4 Service-specific registration information
None.

### 7.5.9 Error Handling

#### 7.5.9.1 General
For the Pull data API, HTTP error responses shall be supported as specified in clause 4.8 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [1]. Protocol errors and application errors specified in 3GPP TS 29.500 [2], table 5.2.7.2-1, shall be supported for an HTTP method if the corresponding HTTP status codes are specified as mandatory for that HTTP method in 3GPP TS 29.500 [2], table 5.2.7.1-1. In addition, the requirements in the following clauses are applicable for the Pull data API.

#### 7.5.9.2 Protocol Errors
No specific protocol errors are defined in the present document.

#### 7.5.9.3 Application Errors
No additional application errors defined in the present document.

## 7.6 Data offer API

### 7.6.1 Introduction
This API enables an API Consumer to trigger the API Producer to collect a data instance produced by the API Consumer and to store it for later consumption, based on the procedures for managing a data offer defined in R1GAP [5]. The API definition applies to the scenario when a Data Producer is the Service Consumer and the DME framework is the Service Producer.

### 7.6.2 API version
For the Data offer API as specified in the present document, the MAJOR version field shall be 1, the MINOR version field shall be 0 and the PATCH version field shall be 0 (see 3GPP TS 29.501 [1] for a definition of the version fields). Consequently, the <apiVersion> URI path segment shall be set to “v1“.

### 7.6.3 Resource structure and methods
The request URIs used in HTTP requests from the API Consumer towards the API Producer shall have the resource URI structure as defined in clause 5.2. The <apiName> resource URI variable shall be “data-offer“. The <apiSpecificResourceUriPart> for each resource shall be set as described in clause 7.6.5. {{aappiiRRoooott}}//ddaattaa--ooffffeerr//<<aappiiVVeerrssiioonn>>/ //ooffffeerrss //{{ddaattaaOOffffeerrIIdd}} operations. Resource name Resource URI HTTP Service Operation method All data offers …/offers POST Create an individual data offer Individual data offer …/offers/{dataOfferId} DELETE Cancel data offer

### 7.6.4 Service Operations

#### 7.6.4.1 Create data offer

##### 7.6.4.1.1 Operation definition
The API Consumer uses the Create data offer operation to create a data offer. The operation is based on HTTP POST. Consumer ->> Producer: POST …/offers (DataOfferInfo) Producer -->> Consumer: 201 Created (DataOfferInfo) The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP POST request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource (…/offers) under which the new data offer is to be created. The message content shall carry a DataOfferInfo structure. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP POST response. On success, “201 Created“ shall be returned. The Location header shall be present and shall carry the URI of the new data offer resource with dataOfferId assigned by the API producer. The message content shall carry a DataOfferInfo representing the created data offer. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the message content may contain additional error information.

##### 7.6.4.1.2 Referenced procedures.
7.6.4.1.2.1 Create data offer procedure The Create data offer operation illustrated in figure 7.6.4.1.1-1 is based on the Create data offer procedure defined for the Data offer service in R1GAP [5].

#### 7.6.4.2 Cancel data offer

##### 7.6.4.2.1 Operation definition
The API Consumer uses the Cancel data offer operation to cancel a data offer, i.e. to indicate to the API Producer that it has stopped the delivery of data for the data offer. The operation is based on HTTP DELETE. Consumer ->> Producer: DELETE …/offers/{dataOfferId} Producer -->> Consumer: 204 No Content The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP DELETE request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource (…/offers/{dataOfferId}). 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP DELETE response. On success, “204 No Content” shall be returned. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the message content may contain additional error information.
> NOTE: For some data delivery methods, due to race conditions, residual produced data can arrive at the API Producer
even after having received the HTTP DELETE request. The API Producer should be robust against this situation.

##### 7.6.4.2.2 Referenced procedures.
7.6.4.2.2.1 Cancel data offer procedure. The Cancel data offer operation illustrated in figure 7.6.4.2.1-1 is based on the cancel data offer procedure defined for the Data offer service in R1GAP [5].

#### 7.6.4.3 Notify data offer termination

##### 7.6.4.3.1 Operation definition
The API Producer uses this operation to notify the API Consumer that it has stopped collecting the offered data. The API Consumer stops producing data. The operation is based on HTTP POST. Producer ->> Consumer: POST {dataOfferTerminationNotficationUri} (DataOfferTerminationNotification) Consumer -->> Consumer: Stop producing data Consumer -->> Producer: 204 No Content The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Producer shall send an HTTP POST request to the API Consumer. The target URI (dataOfferTerminationNotificationUri which was provided during data offer creation) identifies the address where to send the notifications. The message content shall carry a DataOfferTerminationNotification. 2. The API Producer shall stop producing data. 3. The API Consumer shall return the HTTP POST response. On success, “204 No Content“ shall be returned. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the message content may contain additional error information.
> NOTE: For some data delivery methods, due to race conditions, residual produced data can arrive at the API Producer
even after having received the “204 No Content“ response. The API Producer should be robust against this situation.

##### 7.6.4.3.2 Referenced procedures.
7.6.4.3.2.1 Notify data availability procedure. The Notify data offer termination operation illustrated in figure 7.6.4.3.1-1 is based on the Notify data offer termination procedure defined for the Data offer service in R1GAP [5].

### 7.6.5 Resources

#### 7.6.5.1 Overview
This clause defines the resources for the Data offer API.

#### 7.6.5.2 Resource: "All data offers"

##### 7.6.5.2.1 Description
The resource All data offers represents all data offers created by a particular consumer. Only the methods defined in clause 7.6.5.2.3 shall be supported by these resources.

##### 7.6.5.2.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/data-offer/<apiVersion>/offers The resource URI variables supported by the resource are defined in Table 7.6.5.2.2-1. Name Definition apiRoot See clause 5.3. apiVersion See clause 7.6.2.

##### 7.6.5.2.3 Resource Standard Methods
7.6.5.2.3.1 POST This method shall support the request data structure specified in the table 7.6.5.2.3.1-1, and the response data structure and response code specified in the table 7.6.5.2.3.1-2. Data Type P Cardinality Description DataOfferInfo M 1 Provides information for the data job to be created. Data Type P Cardinality Response Description codes DataOfferInfo M 1 201 Created The operation was successful. The message content of the POST response contains a DataOfferInfo representing the created resource. ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx The operation was unsuccessful. Detailed problem description may be carried in the response message content. Name Data P Cardinality Description type Location String M 1 Contains the URI of the newly created resource as defined in clause 7.6.5.3.2.

##### 7.6.5.2.4 Resource Custom Operations
None.

#### 7.6.5.3 Resource: "Individual data offer"

##### 7.6.5.3.1 Description
The resource Individual data offer represents an individual data offer. The methods defined in clause 7.6.5.3.3 shall be supported by this resource.

##### 7.6.5.3.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/data-offer /<apiVersion>/offers/{dataOfferId} The resource URI variables supported by the resource is defined in Table 7.6.5.3.2-1. Name Definition apiRoot See clause 5.3. apiVersion See clause 7.6.2. dataOfferId The data offer identifier assigned by the Service Producer.

##### 7.6.5.3.3 Resource Standard Methods
7.6.5.3.3.1 DELETE This method shall support the request data structure specified in table 7.6.5.3.3.1-1 and the response data structure and response code specified in 7.6.5.3.3.1-2. Data type P Cardinality Description N/A There is no object in the message content of a DELETE request. Data type P Cardinality Response codes Description N/A 204 No content The operation was successful. The data offer has been cancelled. ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx The operation was unsuccessful. Detailed problem description may be carried in the response message content.

##### 7.6.5.3.4 Resource Custom Operations
. None

### 7.6.6 Custom operation without associated resources.
None.

### 7.6.7 Notifications

#### 7.6.7.1 Notify data offer termination

##### 7.6.7.1.1 Description
The notification informs the Data Producer as API Consumer that the sender of the notification, i.e. the Api Producer, does not intend to collect the data instance related to the data offer from the Data Producer any longer. The Data Producer shall stop data production when receiving this notification.

##### 7.6.7.1.2 Resource Definition
The resource URI is a callback URI that has been provided when creating the related data offer.

##### 7.6.7.1.3 Resource Standard Methods
7.6.7.1.3.1 POST This method shall support the request data structures specified in table 7.6.7.1.3.1-1 and the response data structure and response codes specified in table 7.6.7.1.3.1-2. Data type P Cardinality Description DataOfferTerminationNotification M 1 Notify data offer termination. Data type P Cardinality Response codes Description N/A 204 No content Confirmation of received notification. ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx The operation was unsuccessful. Detailed problem description may be carried in the response message content.

### 7.6.8 Data Model

#### 7.6.8.1 Structured data types

##### 7.6.8.1.1 Overview
The following clauses define the data types and attributes to be used in the resource representation.

##### 7.6.8.1.2 Data type: DataOfferInfo
The DataOfferInfo contains the attributes defined in table 7.6.8.1.2-1. Attribute Name Data type P Cardinality Description dataDeliveryMode DataDeliveryMode M 1 See clause 7.3.8.2.3.1 dmeTypeId DmeTypeId M 1 See clause B.4.2 productionJobDefinition object M 1 Job definition based on the DME type specific dataProductionSchema dataDeliveryMethods array (DataDeliveryMethod) M 1..N Data delivery method(s), see clause B.4.3.1(NOTE 1). dataDeliverySchemaIds array (string) M 1..N Delivery schema identifiers (NOTE 1). pullDeliveryDetailsHttp PullDeliveryDetailsHttp C 0..1 Access details for HTTP Pull delivery of the data, managed by the API Consumer, see clause 7.3.8.1.3. The API Consumer shall provide this attribute in the HTTP request to create a data offer if the value “PULL_HTTP“ is included in “dataDeliveryMechanisms“. The API Producer shall include this attribute in HTTP responses if it has chosen “PULL_HTTP“ data delivery. dataAvailabilityNotificationUri Uri C 0..1 Callback URI to receive data availability notifications, managed by the API Producer. The API Consumer shall not include this attribute in the HTTP request to create a data offer. The API Producer shall include this attribute in HTTP responses if it has chosen “PULL_HTTP“ data delivery in “CONTINUOUS“ delivery mode. dataOfferTerminationNotificationUri Uri M 1 Callback URI to receive data offer termination notifications, managed by the API Consumer. pushDeliveryDetailsHttp PushDeliveryDetailsHttp C 0..1 Access details for HTTP Push delivery of the data, managed by the API Producer, see clause 7.3.8.1.4. The API Consumer shall not provide this attribute in the HTTP request to create a data offer. The API Producer shall include this attribute in HTTP responses if it has chosen “PUSH_HTTP“ data delivery. streamingConfigurationKafka StreamingConfigurationKafka C 0..1 Konfiguration to stream data over a Kafka bus, see clause 7.3.8.1.6. This attribute shall not be present in the HTTP request to create a data offer. If the value “STREAMING_KAFKA“ is included in “dataDeliveryMechanisms“, this attribute shall be included in HTTP responses.
> NOTE 1: In the HTTP request to create a data offer, the API Consumer shall include all items it supports. In HTTP responses, the
API Producer shall include the single item that has been chosen from the alternatives proposed during data offer creation.

##### 7.6.8.1.3 Data type: DataOfferTerminationNotification
The DataOfferTerminationNotification contains the attributes defined in table 7.6.8.1.3-1. Attribute Name Data type P Cardinality Description dataOfferId string M 1 Identifier of the data offer to be terminated.

##### 7.6.8.1.4 Data type: DataAvailabilityNotification
The DataAvailabilityNotification contains the attributes defined in table 7.6.8.1.4-1. Attribute Name Data type P Cardinality Description dataOfferId string M 1 Identifier of the data offer to be terminated. pullDeliveryDetailsHttp PushDeliveryDetailsHttp C 1 Access details for HTTP Push delivery of the data, managed by the API Producer, see clause 7.3.8.1.4. The API Consumer shall not provide this attribute in the HTTP request to create a data offer. The API Producer shall include this attribute in HTTP responses if it has chosen “PUSH_HTTP“ data delivery.

#### 7.6.8.2 Simple data types and enumerations
None.

#### 7.6.8.3 Re-used data types
Data type Reference Comments DataDeliveryMethod Clause B.4.3.1 PullDeliveryDetailsHttp Clause 7.3.8.1.3 PushDeliveryDetailsHttp Clause 7.3.8.1.4 DataAvailabilityNotification Clause 7.6.8.1.4 StreamingConfigurationKafka Clause 7.3.8.1.6

#### 7.6.8.4 Service-specific registration information
None.

### 7.6.9 Error Handling

#### 7.6.9.1 General
For the Data offer API, HTTP error responses shall be supported as specified in clause 4.8 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [1]. Protocol errors and application errors specified in 3GPP TS 29.500 [2], table 5.2.7.2-1, shall be supported for an HTTP method if the corresponding HTTP status codes are specified as mandatory for that HTTP method in 3GPP TS 29.500 [2], table 5.2.7.1-1. In addition, the requirements in the following clauses are applicable for the Data offer API.

#### 7.6.9.2 Protocol Errors
No specific protocol errors are defined in the present document.

#### 7.6.9.3 Application Errors
No additional application errors defined in the present document.

# 8 RAN OAM related services.

## 8.1 Configuration management API

### 8.1.1 Introduction
This API allows the API Consumer to request managing configuration data based on the procedures for “Configuration management (CM) service“ defined in R1GAP [5].

### 8.1.2 API version
For the Configuration management API as specified in the present document, the MAJOR version field shall be 1, the MINOR version field shall be 0 and the PATCH version field shall be 0 (see 3GPP TS 29.501 [1] for a definition of the version fields). Consequently, the <apiVersion> URI variable shall be set to “v1“. The Configuration management API is under development and consequently the API version shall include the pre-release version “alpha.1“.

### 8.1.3 Resource structure and methods
The request URIs used in HTTP requests from the API Consumer towards the API Producer shall have the resource URI structure as defined for the Generic provisioning management service API (see 3GPP TS 28.532 [20], Figure 12.1.1.3.1.1-1 in Clause 12.1.1.3.1.1). [20], clause 12.1.1, and the associated service operations. Table 8.1.3-1 lists the individual resources defined for the API, the applicable HTTP methods, and the associated service operations. Resource Name Resource URI HTTP method Service Operation 3GPP TS 28.532 [20] 3GPP TS 28.532 [20] 3GPP TS 28.532 [20] GET Read configuration data. .../{URI-LDN-first part}/{class MOI Name}={id} Write configuration PATCH changes.
> NOTE: CM service procedures related to M-Plane nodes, such as O-RUs, are not currently supported in this API
resource structure and can be defined in future releases.

### 8.1.4 Service operations

#### 8.1.4.1 Read configuration data

##### 8.1.4.1.1 Operation definition

# A Service Consumer uses the Read configuration data API operation as API Consumer to read configuration with the API
Producer. The operation is based on HTTP GET as per figure 8.1.4.1.1-1. The HTTP GET response contains configuration data that the API Consumer has requested. participant “API Consumer“ as cons participant “API Producer“ as prod cons ->> prod : GET .../{URI-LDN-first part}/{className}={id} prod -->> cons : 200 OK (Configuration Data) The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP GET request to the API Producer that includes the Node Identifier and optional query criteria. The API Producer shall process the read information received in the HTTP GET message and determine if the request sent by the API Consumer is authorized or not. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP GET response. On success “200 OK“ shall be returned and the message content shall carry configuration data. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message content may contain additional error information.

##### 8.1.4.1.2 Referenced procedures
8.1.4.1.2.1 Reading configuration data procedure The procedure for reading configuration data API operation illustrated in figure 8.1.4.1.1-1 is based on Read Configuration procedure defined in R1GAP [5].

#### 8.1.4.2 Write configuration changes

##### 8.1.4.2.1 Operation definition

# A Service Consumer uses the Write configuration changes API operation as API Consumer to write configuration with the API
Producer. The operation is based on HTTP PATCH as per figure 8.1.4.2.1-1. The HTTP PATCH response contains configuration data that the API Consumer has requested. participant “API Consumer“ as cons participant “API Producer“ as prod cons ->> prod : PATCH .../{URI-LDN-first part}/{className}={id} prod -->> cons : 200 OK (Configuration Data) The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP PATCH request to the API Producer that includes the Node Identifier and optional query criteria along with payload which includes attribute identifiers, attribute values and modify operator as part of modification list defined in 3GPP TS 28.532 [20] clause 11.1.1.3.2. The API Producer shall process the write configuration changes information received in the HTTP PATCH message and determine if the request sent by the API consumer is authorized or not. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP PATCH response. On success “200 OK“ shall be returned and the message content shall carry configuration data. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message content may contain additional error information.
> NOTE: Response format to represent “partial success“ is not specified in the present document.

##### 8.1.4.1.2 Referenced procedures.
8.1.4.1.2.1 Writing configuration change procedure. The procedure for writing configuration data API operation illustrated in figure 8.1.4.2.1-1 is based on write Configuration procedure defined in R1GAP [5] .

### 8.1.5 Resources

#### 8.1.5.1 Overview
This clause defines the resources for the Configuration management (CM) service API based on the RESTful HTTP-based solution set for the Generic provisioning management service defined in 3GPP TS 28.532 [20], clause 12.1.1. The Configuration management (CM) service Producer take the role of the Generic provisioning MnS Producer defined in 3GPP TS 28.532 [20] . By consuming this API, an rApp as Configuration management (CM) service Consumer takes the role of the Generic provisioning MnS Consumer defined in 3GPP TS 28.532 [20].

#### 8.1.5.2 Resource: "MOI"

##### 8.1.5.2.1 Description
The MOI resource represents a managed object instance, or a tree of these, containing the configuration data .

##### 8.1.5.2.2 Resource definition
The resource URI structure of the provisioning MnS is defined in 3GPP TS 28.532 [20], as per clause 12.1.1.3.1.1, with the following URI: {apiRoot}/ProvMnS/<apiVersion>/{URI-LDN-first-part}/{className}={id} The resource URI variables are specified in 3GPP TS 28.532 [20], clause 12.1.1.3.2.1.2.
> NOTE: HTTP methods GET and PATCH shall only be used.

##### 8.1.5.2.3 Resource standard methods
8.1.5.2.3.1 GET This method shall support the URI query parameters, request data structures, response data structures and response codes specified in 3GPP TS 28.532 [20], clause 12.1.1.3.2.1.3.2. 8.1.5.2.3.2 PATCH This method shall support the URI parameters, request data structures, response data structures and response codes specified in 3GPP TS 28.532 [20], clause 12.1.1.3.2.1.3.3.

##### 8.1.5.2.3 Resource custom operations
None.

### 8.1.6 Custom operations without associated resources.
None.

### 8.1.7 Notifications
> NOTE: The notifications are not specified in present version of the document.

### 8.1.8 Data model

#### 8.1.8.1 General
The application data model is defined in 3GPP TS 28.532 [20], clause 12.1.1.4, apply to this API.

#### 8.1.8.2 Structured data types
None.

#### 8.1.8.3 Simple data types and enumerations
None.

#### 8.1.8.4 Re-used data types
None.

#### 8.1.8.5 Service-specific registration information
None.

### 8.1.9 Error Handling

#### 8.1.9.1 General
HTTP error handling is applicable for this API as specified in 3GPP TS 28.532 [20], clause A.1.1.

#### 8.1.9.2 Protocol Errors
No specific protocol errors are defined in the present document.

#### 8.1.9.3 Application Errors
No specific protocol errors are defined in the present document.

## 8.2 Fault management API

### 8.2.1 Introduction
This API allows the API Consumer to read information about alarms and to acknowledge alarms based on the procedures for the “Fault management (FM) service“ defined in R1GAP [5]. The API is based on the AlarmList IOC as specified in 28.111 [26], clause 7.3.2. .

### 8.2.2 API version
For the fault management API as specified in the present document, the MAJOR version field shall be 1, the MINOR version field shall be 0 and the PATCH version field shall be 0 (see 3GPP TS 29.501 [1] for a definition of the version fields). Consequently, the <apiVersion> URI variable shall be set to “v1“.

### 8.2.3 Resource structure and methods
The request URIs used in HTTP requests from the API Consumer towards the API Producer shall have the resource URI structure as defined for the Generic provisioning management service API (see 3GPP TS 28.532 [20], figure 12.1.1.3.1.1-1 in clause 12.1.1.3.1.1). [20], clause 12.1.1, and the associated service operations. Resource Name Resource URI HTTP method Service Operation 3GPP TS 28.532 [20] 3GPP TS 28.532 [20] 3GPP TS 28.532 [20] GET Query alarms. .../{URI-LDN-first part}/{className}={id}/ Alarm list AlarmList={alarmListId} Change alarm PATCH acknowledgement status.
> NOTE: FM service procedures related to M-Plane nodes, such as O-RUs, are not currently supported in this API
resource structure and can be defined in future releases.

### 8.2.4 Service operations

#### 8.2.4.1 Query alarms

##### 8.2.4.1.1 Operation definition

# A Service Consumer uses the Query alarms API operation as API Consumer to query alarm information from the API
Producer. The operation is based on HTTP GET as per figure 8.2.4.1.1-1. The HTTP GET response contains a list of alarm records matching the query of the API Consumer. participant “API Consumer“ as cons participant “API Producer“ as prod cons ->> prod : GET .../{URI-LDN-first part}/{className}={id}/AlarmList={alarmListId} prod -->> cons : 200 OK (Alarm List) The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP GET request to the API Producer that includes either “SubNetwork“ or “ManagedElement“ as the class name, the related object instance identifier, the alarm list identifier, and optional query criteria. The API Producer shall process the information received in the HTTP GET message and determine if the request sent by the API Consumer is authorized or not. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP GET response. On success “200 OK“ shall be returned and the message content shall carry the representation of the alarm list. If query criteria were given, the content of the alarm entries in the returned alarm list shall match the query criteria. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message content may contain additional error information.

##### 8.2.4.1.2 Referenced procedures
8.2.4.1.2.1 Query alarms procedure The procedure for querying alarm information illustrated in figure 8.2.4.1.1-1 is based on the Query Alarms procedure defined in R1GAP [5].

#### 8.2.4.2 Change alarm acknowledgement state

##### 8.2.4.2.1 Operation definition

# A Service Consumer uses the Change alarm acknowledgement state API operation as API Consumer to acknowledge or unacknowledge one or more alarms with the API Producer.
The operation is based on HTTP PATCH as per figure 8.2.4.2.1-1. participant “API Consumer“ as cons participant “API Producer“ as prod cons ->> prod : PATCH .../{URI-LDN-first part}/{className}={id}/AlarmList={alarmListId} (Alarm Update Information) prod -->> cons : 204 No Content else success, updated information returned prod -->> cons : 200 OK (Alarm List) else error prod -->> cons : Error response end The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send a PATCH request to the API Producer that includes in the resource URI either “SubNetwork“ or “ManagedElement“ as the class name, the related object instance identifier, and the alarm list identifier. Further, it shall include in the message content information about which alarms to be updated as well as information about the actual alarm acknowledgements / unacknowledgments. The API Producer shall process the information received in the HTTP PATCH message and determine if the request sent by the API Consumer is authorized or not. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP PATCH response. 3. On success, the API Producer should return a “204 No Content“ response message with empty message content. 4. On success, the API Producer may alternatively return a “200 OK“ response message with the representation of updated alarm list in the message content. 5. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message content may contain additional error information.

##### 8.2.4.2.2 Referenced procedures
8.2.4.2.2.1 Change alarm acknowledgement state procedure The procedure for changing the acknowledgement state of one or more alarms illustrated in figure 8.2.4.2.1-1 is based on the Change alarm acknowledgement state procedure defined in R1GAP [5].

### 8.2.5 Resources

#### 8.2.5.1 Overview
This clause defines the resources for the Fault management (FM) service API based on the RESTful HTTP-based solution set for the Generic provisioning management service defined in 3GPP TS 28.532 [20], clause 12.1.1. The Fault management (FM) service Producer take the role of the Generic provisioning MnS Producer defined in 3GPP TS 28.532 [20]. By consuming this API, an rApp as Fault management (FM) service Consumer takes the role of the Generic provisioning MnS Consumer defined in 3GPP TS 28.532 [20].

#### 8.2.5.2 Resource: "Alarm list"

##### 8.2.5.2.1 Description
The “Alarm list“ resource represents a list of alarms related to either a subnetwork or a managed element. It allows to query alarms and to change the acknowledgement state of alarms.

##### 8.2.5.2.2 Resource definition
The resource URI structure of the alarm list as managed by the Generic provisioning MnS is defined as per 3GPP TS 28.532 [20], clause 12.1.1.3.1.1, for the AlarmList IOC as defined in 3GPP TS 28.111 [26], clause 7.3.2, with the following URI: {apiRoot}/ProvMnS/<apiVersion>/{URI-LDN-first-part}/{className}={id}/AlarmList={alarmListId} The resource URI variables supported by the resource are defined in Table 8.2.5.2.2-1. Name Definition apiRoot See clause 5.2. apiVersion See clause 8.2.2. URI-LDN-first-part See 3GPP TS 28.532 [20], clause 12.1.1.3.2.1.2. className Name of the object class (IOC) of the managed object instance to which the alarm list is attached. Shall be either “SubNetwork“ or “ManagedElement“ as defined in 3GPP TS 28.622 [21], clause 4.3.26.1. id Identifier of the managed object instance to which the alarm list is attached. alarmListId Identifier of the managed object instance which is the alarm list.

##### 8.2.5.2.3 Resource standard methods
8.2.5.2.3.1 GET This method shall support the URI query parameters, HTTP headers, response data structures and response codes specified in 3GPP TS 28.532 [20], clause 12.1.1.3.2.1.3.2. EXAMPLE 1: This request queries the whole alarm list: GET /SubNetwork=SN123/AlarmList=AL123 HTTP/1.1. EXAMPLE 2: This request queries a single alarm: GET /SubNetwork=SN123/AlarmList=AL123?fields=/attributes/alarmRecords/ALARM456 HTTP/1.1.
> NOTE: Selection of alarm records in the query based on then values of other alarm attributes than alarm identifier is not
supported in the present version. 8.2.5.2.3.2 PATCH This method shall support the URI query parameters, HTTP headers, response data structures and response codes specified in 3GPP TS 28.532 [20], clause 12.1.1.3.2.1.3.3. To change the alarm state, the patch payload shall contain values for the “ackState“ attribute (“ACKNOWLEDGED“ or “UNACKNOWLEDGED“) and the “ackUserId“ attribute and may contain a value for the “ackSystemId“ attribute, as defined in 3GPP TS 28.111 [26], clause 7.3.1.2.

##### 8.2.5.3.3 Resource custom operations
None.

### 8.2.6 Custom operations without associated resources
None.

### 8.2.7 Notifications
None.

### 8.2.8 Data model

#### 8.2.8.1 General
The application data model is defined in 3GPP TS 28.111 [26], clause Annex A.1.3. The key IOCs for this API are SubNetwork, ManagedElement and AlarmList.

#### 8.2.8.2 Structured data types
None.

#### 8.2.8.3 Simple data types and enumerations
None.

#### 8.2.8.4 Re-used data types
None.

#### 8.2.8.5 Service-specific registration information
None.

### 8.2.9 Error Handling

#### 8.2.9.1 General
HTTP error handling is applicable for this API as specified in 3GPP TS 28.111 [26], clause A.1.3.

#### 8.2.9.2 Protocol Errors
No specific protocol errors are defined in the present document.

#### 8.2.9.3 Application Errors
No specific protocol errors are defined in the present document.

## 8.3 Configuration schema information API.

### 8.3.1 Introduction
This API enables the API Consumer to retrieve configuration schema information based on the procedure defined in R1GAP [5].

### 8.3.2 API version
For the configuration schema information API as specified in the present document, the MAJOR version field shall be 1, the MINOR version field shall be 0 and the PATCH version field shall be 0 (see clause 4.3.1.1 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [1] for a definition of the version fields). Consequently, the <apiVersion> URI path segment shall be set to "v1". The configuration schema information API is under development and consequently the API version shall include the pre- release version "alpha.1".

### 8.3.3 Resource structure and methods
The request URIs used in HTTP requests from the API Consumer towards the API Producer shall have the resource URI structure as defined in clause 5.2. The <apiName> resource URI variable shall be "ran-oam-cm-schema-info". The <apiSpecificResourceUriPart> for each resource shall be set as described in clause 8.3.5. {apiRoot}/ran-oam-cm-schema-info/<apiVersion> /schemas /{schemaId} Table: 8.3.3-1 lists the individual resources defined for the API, the applicable HTTP methods, and the associated service operations. Resource Name Resource URI HTTP Service Operation method All schema information …/schemas GET Get all schema information Individual schema information …/schemas/{schemaId} GET Get Individual schema information

### 8.3.4 Service operations

#### 8.3.4.1 Get all schema information

##### 8.3.4.1.1 Operation definition
An API consumer uses the Get all schema information operation to get Schemas. participant "API Consumer" as cons participant " API Producer " as prod cons ->>prod: GET …/schemas prod-->> cons : 200 OK (array(Schema)) The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP GET request to API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource (…/schemas). The API Producer shall process the request received in the HTTP GET message and determine if the request sent by the API Consumer is authorized or not. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP GET response. On success "200 OK" shall be returned and the message content shall carry an array of schema. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the message response body may contain additional error information.

##### 8.3.4.1.2 Referenced procedures
8.3.4.1.2.1 Get schemas procedure The Get all schema information operation illustrated in figure 8.3.4.1.1-1 is based on Get schemas procedure defined in R1GAP [5].

#### 8.3.4.2 Get Individual schema information

##### 8.3.4.2.1 Operation definition
An API consumer uses the Get Individual schema information to get one or more schemas of interest for a schemaId. participant "API Consumer" as cons participant " API Producer " as prod cons ->>prod: GET …/schemas/{schemaId} prod-->> cons : 200 OK (Schema) The service operation is as follows: 1) The API Consumer shall send an HTTP GET request to API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource (…/schemas/{schemaId}), the message content shall be empty. The API Producer shall process the request received in the HTTP GET message and determine if the request sent by the API Consumer is authorized or not. 2) The API Producer shall return the HTTP GET response. On success "200 OK" shall be returned and the message content shall carry the Schema matching the API Consumer HTTP GET request URI and schemaId . On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the message response body may contain additional error information.

##### 8.3.4.2.2 Referenced procedures
8.3.4.2.2.1 Get Schemas procedure The Get individual schema information operation illustrated in figure 8.3.4.2.1-1 is based on Get schemas procedure defined in R1GAP [5].

### 8.3.5 Resources

#### 8.3.5.1 Overview
This clause defines the resources for the retrieving configuration schemas API.

#### 8.3.5.2 Resource : " All schema information"

##### 8.3.5.2.1 Description
The resource represents a collection of configuration schema information. Only the methods defined in clause 8.3.3 shall be supported by this resource.

##### 8.3.5.2.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/ran-oam-cm-schema-info/<apiVersion>/schemas The resource URI variables supported by the resource is defined in table 8.3.5.2.2-1. Name Definition apiRoot See clause 5.2 apiVersion See clause 8.3.2

##### 8.3.5.2.3 Resource Standard Methods
8.3.5.2.3.1 HTTP GET This method shall support the request data structure specified in table 8.3.5.2.3.1 -1 and the response data structures and response codes specified in 8.3.5.2.3.1 -2. Data type P Cardinality Description N/A There is no object in the message content of a GET request. Data Type P Cardinality Response Description codes array(Schema) O 0..N 200 OK The results with the schema information ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx The operation has failed, and the message content may contain Problem description details.

##### 8.3.5.2.4 Resource Custom Operations
None

#### 8.3.5.3 Resource: "Individual schema information"

##### 8.3.5.3.1 Description
The resource represents a schema definition. Only the methods defined in clause 8.3.3 shall be supported by this resource.

##### 8.3.5.3.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/ran-oam-cm-schema-info/<apiVersion>/schemas/{schemaId} The resource URI variables supported by the resource is defined in the table 8.3.5.3.2-1. Name Definition apiRoot See clause 5.2 apiVersion See clause 8.3.2 schemaId Where schemaId = “name” (for latest revision or if revision is not available) or “name@revision” for a specific revision.

##### 8.3.5.3.3 Resource Standard Methods
8.3.5.3.3.1 HTTP GET This method shall support the request data structure specified in table 8.3.5.3.3.1 -1 and the response data structures and response codes specified in 8.3.5.3.3.1 -2. Data type P Cardinality Description N/A There is no object in the message content of a GET request. Data Type P Cardinality Response Description codes Schema M 1 200 OK The results with the schema information matching the request ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx The operation has failed, and the message content may contain Problem description details.

##### 8.3.5.3.4 Resource Custom Operations
None.

### 8.3.6 Custom operations without associated resources
None

### 8.3.7 Notifications
None

### 8.3.8 Data model
The following clause specifies the application data model supported by the retrieving configuration schemas API.

#### 8.3.8.1 Data Type: Schema
The Schema data type contains the attributes defined in table 8.3.8.1.1-1. Attribute Name Data type P Cardinality Description name string M 1 The unique name of the schema revision string C 0..1 The unique revision of the schema (See NOTE 3) location Uri M 1 Location of where to find the schema content type SchemaType M 1 See clause 8.3.8.2.3.1. (See NOTE 2). namespace string O 0..1 The namespace of the schema, (See NOTE 1). features Array(string) O 0..N List of supported features (See NOTE 1). deviations Array(string) O 0..N List of schema deviation(s) (See NOTE 1).
> NOTE 1: Only applicable if type is YANG.
> NOTE 2: This data type is designed to provide extensibility. As specified in clause 8.3.8.2.3.1, Only YANG is
supported in the present version of the present document.
> NOTE 3 : this attribute is required for YANG.

#### 8.3.8.2 Simple data types and enumerations

##### 8.3.8.2.1 Introduction
The following clause defines simple data types and enumerations that can be referenced from data structures defined in the previous clauses.

##### 8.3.8.2.2 Simple data types
None.

##### 8.3.8.2.3 Enumerations
8.3.8.2.3.1 Enumeration: SchemaTypes Enumeration value Description YANG YANG schema

#### 8.3.8.3 Re-used data types
None.

### 8.3.9 Error Handling

#### 8.3.9.1 General
In addition to the general provisions in clause 5.4.3, the requirements in the following clauses are applicable for the retrieving configuration schema API.

#### 8.3.9.2 Protocol Errors
No specific protocol errors are defined in the present document.

#### 8.3.9.3 Application Errors
No specific protocol errors are defined in the present document. 9. A1 related services

## 9.1 A1 policy management API

### 9.1.1 Introduction
This API allows the API Consumer to Query policy types and create, query, update and delete A1 policies based on the procedures for “A1 policy management“ defined in R1GAP [5].

### 9.1.2 API version
For the A1 policy management API as specified in the present document, the MAJOR version field shall be 1, the MINOR version field shall be 0, and the PATCH version field shall be 0 (see 3GPP TS 29.501 [1] for a definition of the version fields). Consequently, the <apiVersion> URI path segment shall be set to “v1“.

### 9.1.3 Resource structure and methods
The request URIs used in HTTP requests from the API Consumer towards the API Producer shall have the resource URI structure as defined in clause 5.2. The <apiName> resource URI variable shall be “a1-policy-managment“. The <apiSpecificResourceUriPart> for each resource shall be set as described in clause 9.1.5. and policies, for life cycle management of policies, and for subscriptions to A1 policy status notifications. {apiRoot}/a1-policy-managment/<apiVersion>/ /policy-types /{policyTypeId} /policies /{policyId} /status /subscriptions /{subscriptionId} operations. Resource name Resource URI HTTP method Service Operation All A1 policy types …/policy-types GET Query A1 policy type identifiers. Individual A1 policy type …/policy-types/{policyTypeId} GET Query A1 policy type. All A1 policies …/policies GET Query A1 policy identifiers. POST Create A1 policy. Individual A1 policy …/policies/{policyId} GET Query A1 policy. PUT Update A1 policy. DELETE Delete A1 policy. Individual A1 policy status …/policies/{policyId}/status GET Query A1 policy status. All A1 policy status …/policies/subscriptions POST Subscribe A1 policy status. subscriptions Individual A1 policy status …/policies/subscriptions/{subscriptionId} PUT Update A1 policy status subscription subscription. GET Query A1 policy status subscription. DELETE Unsubscribe A1 policy status. Policy status change {notificationDestination} POST Notify A1 policy status notifications changes.

### 9.1.4 Service operations

#### 9.1.4.1 Query A1 policy type identifiers

##### 9.1.4.1.1 Operation definition
The API Consumer uses this operation to query available A1 policy type identifiers. The operation to query available A1 policy type identifiers is based on HTTP GET. Consumer ->> Producer: GET …/policy-types Producer ->> Consumer : 200 OK (array(PolicyTypeInformation)) The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP GET request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource “/policy-types“ and optionally query parameters, the message content shall be empty. The API Producer shall process the request received in the HTTP GET message and determine if the request sent by the API Consumer is authorized or not. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP GET response. On success, “200 OK“ shall be returned. The message content shall carry an array of policy type information representing available policy types and for each policy type identifier the Near-RT RIC identifiers of those Near-RT RICs that support the related A1 policy type. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message content may contain additional error information.
> NOTE: The behavior of the query parameters is specified in table 9.1.5.2.3.1-3.

##### 9.1.4.1.2 Referenced procedures.
9.1.4.1.2.1 Query A1 policy type identifiers procedure The Query A1 policy type identifiers API operation illustrated in figure 9.1.4.1.1-1 is based on the Query A1 policy type identifiers procedure defined in R1GAP [5].

#### 9.1.4.2 Query A1 policy type

##### 9.1.4.2.1 Operation definition
The API Consumer uses this operation to query an A1 policy type. The Query A1 policy type operation is based on HTTP GET. Consumer ->> Producer: GET …/policy-types/{policyTypeId} Producer ->> Consumer : 200 OK (PolicyTypeObject) The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP GET request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the policy type to be read based on the policyTypeId under the resource “/policy-types“. The message content shall be empty. The API Producer shall process the request received in the HTTP GET message and determine if the request sent by the API Consumer is authorized or not. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP GET response. On success, “200 OK“ shall be returned. The message content shall carry a PolicyTypeObject representing the read policy type. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message content may contain additional error information.

##### 9.1.4.2.2 Referenced procedures.
9.1.4.2.2.1 Query A1 policy type procedure The Query A1 policy type API operation illustrated in figure 9.1.4.2.1-1 is based on the Query A1 policy type procedure defined in R1GAP [5].

#### 9.1.4.3 Query A1 policy identifiers

##### 9.1.4.3.1 Operation definition
The API Consumer uses this operation to query A1 policy identifiers. The operation to query A1 policy identifiers is based on HTTP GET. Consumer ->> Producer: GET …/policies Producer ->> Consumer : 200 OK (array(PolicyInformation)) The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP GET request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource “/policies“ and optionally query parameters. The message content shall be empty. The API Producer shall process the HTTP GET message and determine if the request sent by the API Consumer is authorized or not. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP GET response. On success, “200 OK“ shall be returned. The message content shall carry an array of policy information which includes Near-RT RIC identifiers where A1 policies exist and for each Near-RT RIC identifier the policy identifiers of those policies that exist in that Near-RT RIC. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message content may contain additional error information.
> NOTE: The behavior of the query parameters is specified in table 9.1.5.2.3.1-3.

##### 9.1.4.3.2 Referenced procedures.
9.1.4.3.2.1 Query A1 policy identifiers procedure The Query A1 policy identifiers API operation illustrated in figure 9.1.4.3.1-1 is based on the Query A1 policy identifiers procedure defined in R1GAP [5].

#### 9.1.4.4 Create A1 policy

##### 9.1.4.4.1 Operation definition
The API Consumer uses this operation to create an A1 policy. The Create A1 policy operation is based on HTTP POST. Consumer ->> Producer: POST …/policies(PolicyObjectInformation) Producer ->> Consumer : 201 Created(PolicyObjectInformation) The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP POST request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource “/policies“ under which the A1 policy shall be created. The message content shall carry a PolicyObjectInformation which includes a nearRtRicId and a PolicyObject. The API Producer shall process the HTTP POST message and determine if the request sent by the API Consumer is authorized or not. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP POST response. On success, “201 Created“ shall be returned. The message content shall carry the PolicyObjectInformation, and the “Location“ HTTP header shall be present and shall carry the URI for the newly created service resource with policyId assigned by the API Producer. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the message content may contain additional error information.

##### 9.1.4.4.2 Referenced procedures.
9.1.4.4.2.1 Create A1 policy procedure. The Create A1 policy API operation illustrated in figure 9.1.4.4.1-1 is based on the Create A1 policy procedure defined in R1GAP [5].

#### 9.1.4.5 Query A1 policy

##### 9.1.4.5.1 Operation definition
The API Consumer uses this operation to query an A1 policy. The Query A1 policy operation is based on HTTP GET. Consumer ->> Producer: GET …/policies/{policyId} Producer ->> Consumer : 200 OK (PolicyObject) The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP GET request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the policy to be read based on the policyId under the resource “/policies“. The message content shall be empty. The API Producer shall process the HTTP GET message and determine if the request sent by the API Consumer is authorized or not. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP GET response. On success, “200 OK“ shall be returned. The message content shall carry a PolicyObject representing the read policy. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message content may contain additional error information.

##### 9.1.4.5.2 Referenced procedures.
9.1.4.5.2.1 Query A1 policy procedure The Query A1 policy API operation illustrated in figure 9.1.4.5.1-1 is based on the Query A1 policy procedure defined in R1GAP [5].

#### 9.1.4.6 Update A1 policy

##### 9.1.4.6.1 Operation definition
The API Consumer uses this operation to update an A1 policy. The Update A1 policy operation is based on HTTP PUT. Consumer ->> Producer: PUT…/policies/{policyId}(PolicyObject) Producer ->> Consumer : 200 OK (PolicyObject) The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP PUT request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the policy to be updated based on the policyId under the resource “/policies“. The message content shall contain a PolicyObject. The API Producer shall process the HTTP PUT message and determine if the request sent by the API Consumer is authorized or not. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP PUT response. On success, “200 OK“ shall be returned. The message content shall carry a PolicyObject representing the updated policy. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message content may contain additional error information.

##### 9.1.4.6.2 Referenced procedures.
9.1.4.6.2.1 Update A1 policy procedure The Update A1 policy API operation illustrated in figure 9.1.4.6.1-1 is based on the Update A1 policy procedure defined in R1GAP [5].

#### 9.1.4.7 Delete A1 policy

##### 9.1.4.7.1 Operation definition
The API Consumer uses this operation to delete an A1 policy. The Delete A1 policy operation is based on HTTP GET. Consumer ->> Producer: DELETE…/policies/{policyId} Producer ->> Consumer : 204 No Content The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP DELETE request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the policy to be deleted based on the policyId under the resource “/policies“. The message content shall be empty. The API Producer shall process the HTTP DELETE message and determine if the request sent by the API Consumer is authorized or not. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP DELETE response. On success, “204 No Content“ shall be returned. The message content shall be empty. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message content may contain additional error information.

##### 9.1.4.7.2 Referenced procedures.
9.1.4.7.2.1 Delete A1 policy procedure. The Delete A1 policy API operation illustrated in figure 9.1.4.7.1-1 is based on the Delete A1 policy procedure defined in R1GAP [5].

#### 9.1.4.8 Query A1 policy status

##### 9.1.4.8.1 Operation definition
The API Consumer uses this operation to query A1 policy status. The operation to query A1 policy status is based on HTTP GET. Consumer ->> Producer: GET …/policies/{policyId}/status Producer ->> Consumer : 200 OK (PolicyStatusObject) I onsumer I roducer /policies/{policyId}/status ( olicy tatus b ect I onsumer I roducer The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP GET request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource “…/policies/{policyId}/status“. The message content shall be empty. The API Producer shall process the HTTP GET message and determine if the request sent by the API Consumer is authorized or not. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP GET response. On success, “200 OK“ shall be returned. The message content shall carry a PolicyStatusObject representing the status of the A1 policy. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message content may contain additional error information.

##### 9.1.4.8.1 Referenced procedures
9.1.4.8.1.1 Query A1 policy status procedure The Query A1 policy status operation illustrated in figure 9.1.4.8.1-1 is based on the Query A1 policy enforcement status procedure defined in R1GAP [5].

#### 9.1.4.9 Subscribe A1 policy status
9.1.4. 9.1 Operation definition The API Consumer uses this operation to subscribe to notifications for status changes of A1 policies. The operation to subscribe to A1 policy status is based on HTTP POST. Consumer ->> Producer: POST …/policies/subscriptions (PolicyStatusSubscription) Producer ->> Consumer : 201 Created (PolicyStatusSubscription) The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP POST request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource “/policies/subscriptions“ under which the new subscription is requested to be created. The message content shall carry a PolicyStatusSubscription structure. The API Producer shall process the request received in the HTTP POST message and determine if the request sent by the API Consumer is authorized or not. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP POST response. On success, “201 Created“ shall be returned. The location header shall be present and shall carry the URI of new subscription resource with subscriptionId assigned by the API producer. The message content shall carry a PolicyStatusSubscription structure that represents the new resource. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message content may contain additional error information.

##### 9.1.4.9.2 Referenced procedures
9.1.4.9.2.1 Subscribe A1 policy status procedure The Subscribe A1 policy status operation illustrated in figure 9.1.4.9.1-1 is based on the Subscribe A1 policy status procedure defined in R1GAP [5].

#### 9.1.4.10 Update A1 policy status subscription
9.1.4. 10.1 Operation definition The API Consumer uses this operation to update a subscription for A1 policy status notifications. The operation to update an individual A1 policy status subscription is based on HTTP PUT. Consumer ->> Producer: PUT …/policies/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}\n( PolicyStatusSubscription) Producer ->> Consumer : 200 OK (PolicyStatusSubscription) The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP PUT request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource (…/policies/subscriptions /{subscriptionId}). The message content shall carry the updated PolicyStatusSubscription structure. The API Producer shall process the request received in the HTTP PUT message and determine if the request sent by the API Consumer is authorized or not. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP PUT response. On success, “200 OK“ shall be returned. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message content may contain additional error information.

##### 9.1.4.10.2 Referenced procedures.
9.1.4.10.2.1 Update A1 policy status subscription procedure The Update A1 policy status subscription operation illustrated in figure 9.1.4.10.1-1 is based on the Update A1 policy status procedure defined in R1GAP [5].

#### 9.1.4.11 Query A1 policy status subscription

##### 9.1.4.11.1 Operation definition
The API Consumer uses this operation to query a subscription for A1 policy status. The operation to query an individual A1 policy status subscription is based on HTTP GET. Consumer ->> Producer: GET …/policies/subscriptions/{subscriptionId} Producer ->> Consumer : 200 OK (PolicyStatusSubscription) The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP GET request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource “/policies/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}“. The message content shall be empty. The API Producer shall process the HTTP GET message and determine if the request sent by the API Consumer is authorized or not. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP GET response. On success, “200 OK“ shall be returned. The message content shall carry the PolicyStatusSubscription representing the queried policy status subscription. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message content may contain additional error information.

##### 9.1.4.11.2 Referenced procedures.
9.1.4.11.2.1 Query A1 policy status subscription procedure The Query A1 policy status subscription operation illustrated in figure 9.1.4.11.1-1 is based on the Query A1 policy status subscription procedure defined in R1GAP [5].

#### 9.1.4.12 Unsubscribe A1 policy status
9.1.4. 12.1 Operation definition The API Consumer uses this operation to unsubscribe from notifications on status changes of A1 policies. The operation to unsubscribe from A1 policy status notifications is based on HTTP DELETE. Consumer ->> Producer: DELETE …/policies/subscriptions/{subscriptionId} Producer ->> Consumer : 204 No Content The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP DELETE request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource “/policies/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}“. The message content shall be empty. The API Producer shall process the request received in the HTTP DELETE message and determine if the request sent by the API Consumer is authorized or not. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP DELETE response. On success, “204 No Content“ shall be returned. The message content shall be empty. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message content may contain additional error information.

##### 9.1.4.12.2 Referenced procedures.
9.1.4.12.2.1 Unsubscribe A1 policy status procedure The Unsubscribe A1 policy status operation illustrated in figure 9.1.4.12.1-1 is based on the Unsubscribe A1 policy status procedure defined in R1GAP [5].

#### 9.1.4.13 Notify A1 policy status changes

##### 9.1.4.13.1 Operation definition
The API Producer uses this operation to notify the API Consumer about status changes of an A1 policy. The operation to notify A1 policy status is based on HTTP POST. Producer ->> Consumer : POST ../{notificationDestination}(A1PolicyStatusChangeNotification) Consumer ->>Producer : 204 No Content The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Producer shall send an HTTP POST request to the API Consumer . The target URI (notificationDestination) identifies the sink for policy status change notifications. The message body shall contain a A1PolicyStatusChangeNotifications. 2. The API Consumer shall return the HTTP POST response with “204 No Content“. The message body shall be empty. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message content may contain additional error information.

##### 9.1.4.13.2 Referenced procedures.
9.1.4.13.2.1 Notify A1 policy status procedure The Notify A1 policy status changes operation illustrated in figure 9.1.4.13.1-1 is based on the Notify A1 policy status changes procedure defined in R1GAP [5].

### 9.1.5 Resources

#### 9.1.5.1 Overview
This clause defines the resources for the A1 policy management API.

#### 9.1.5.2 Resource: "All A1 policy types"

##### 9.1.5.2.1 Description
The resource All A1 policy types represents all A1 policy types that are available in all Near-RT RIC's over the A1 Interface. The methods defined in clause 9.1.5.2.3 shall be supported by these resources.

##### 9.1.5.2.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/a1-policy-management /<apiVersion>/policy-types The resource URI variables supported by the resource are defined in Table 9.1.5.2.2-1. Name Definition apiRoot See clause 5.2. apiVersion See clause 9.1.2.

##### 9.1.5.2.3 Resource Standard Methods
9.1.5.2.3.1 GET This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table 9.1.5.2.3.1-1, the request data structure specified in the table 9.1.5.2.3.1-2 and the response data structures, and response code specified in the table 9.1.5.2.3.1-3. Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability nearRtRicId string O 0..1 The identifier of Near-RT RIC (See NOTE). typeName string O 0..1 The unique label of the policy type (See NOTE).
> NOTE: If multiple query parameters are provided these shall be combined with AND when evaluating the query.
Data Type P Cardinality Description N/A There is no object in the message content of the GET request. Data Type P Cardinality Response Description codes array(PolicyTypeInformation) M 0.. N 200 OK The operation is successful, the policy type information. (See NOTE1 ,NOTE 2 , and NOTE 3). ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx The operation has failed, and the message content may contain Problem description details.
> NOTE 1: If a Near-RT RIC identifier has been provided as query parameter, the response body shall contain only
entries for policy types supported by the related Near-RT RIC.
> NOTE 2: If a policy type identifier has been provided as query parameter, the response body shall contain only entries
for the related policy type.
> NOTE 3: If both a Near-RT RIC identifier and a policy type identifier have been provided as query parameters, the
response body shall contain only entries for the related policy type supported by the related Near-RT RIC.

##### 9.1.5.2.4 Resource Custom Operations
None.

#### 9.1.5.3 Resource: "Individual A1 policy type"

##### 9.1.5.3.1 Description
The resource individual A1 policy type represents the A1 policy type that are available in the A1 policy management service. Only the methods defined in clause 9.1.5.3.3 shall be supported by these resources.

##### 9.1.5.3.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/a1-policy-management /<apiVersion>/policy-types/{policyTypeId} The resource URI variables supported by the resource are defined in Table 9.1.5.3.2-1. Name Definition apiRoot See clause 5.2. apiVersion See clause 9.1.2. policyTypeId The policy type identifier as defined in A1TD [24].

##### 9.3.5.3.3 Resource Standard Methods
9.3.5.3.3.1 GET This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table 9.1.5.3.3.1-1, and the response data structure and response code specified in the table 9.1.5.3.3.1-2. Data type P Cardinality Description N/A There is no object in the message content of a GET request. Data type P Cardinality Response Description codes PolicyTypeObject M 1 200 OK Requested policy type object as defined in A1TD [24]. ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx Detailed problem description.

##### 9.1.5.3.4 Resource Custom Operations
None.

#### 9.1.5.4 Resource: "All A1 policies"

##### 9.1.5.4.1 Description
The resource All A1 policies represents the A1 policy that are available in the A1 policy management service. Only the methods defined in clause 9.1.5.4.3 shall be supported by these resources.

##### 9.1.5.4.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/a1-policy-management /<apiVersion>/policies The resource URI variables supported by the resource are defined in Table 9.1.5.4.2-1. Name Definition apiRoot See clause 5.2. apiVersion See clause 9.1.2.

##### 9.1.5.4.3 Resource Standard Methods
9.1.5.4.3.1 GET This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table 9.1.5.4.3.1-1, the request data structure specified in the table 9.1.5.4.3.1-2 and the response data structure and response code specified in the table 9.1.5.4.3.1-3. Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability nearRtRicId string O 0..1 The identifier of Near-RT RIC (See NOTE). policyTypeId string O 0..1 The identifier of the policy (See NOTE).
> NOTE: If multiple query parameters are provided these shall be combined with AND when evaluating the query.
Data type P Cardinality Description N/A There is no object in the message content of a GET request Data type P Cardinality Response Description codes array(PolicyInformation) M 0..N 200 OK The operation is successful, and the response body carries a list of policy information entries. ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx Detailed problem description
> NOTE 1: If a Near-RT RIC identifier has been provided as query parameter, the response body shall contain only entries for
policies existing in the related Near-RT RIC.
> NOTE 2: If a policy type identifier has been provided as query parameter, the response body shall contain only entries for
policies of the related policy type.
> NOTE 3: If both a Near-RT RIC identifier and a policy type identifier have been provided as query parameters, the response
body shall contain only entries for policies of the related policy type existing in the related Near-RT RIC. 9.1.5.4.3.2 POST This method shall support the request data structures specified in table 9.1.5.4.3.2-1 and the response data structures and response codes specified in table 9.1.5.4.3.2-2 and the HTTP headers specified in table 9.1.5.4.3.2-3. Data type P Cardinality Description PolicyObjectInformation M 1 Information related to the creation of the policy. Data type P Cardinality Response Description codes PolicyObjectInformation M 1 201 Created Confirmation of creation of the policy. ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx Detailed problem description. Name Data P Cardinality Description type Location string M 1 Contains the URI of the newly created “Individual registered“ A1 policy resource, as defined in clause 9.1.5.3, with the policyId in the URI.

##### 9.1.5.4.4 Resource Custom Operations
None.

#### 9.1.5.5 Resource: "Individual A1 policy"

##### 9.1.5.5.1 Description
The resource Individual A1 policy represents an A1 policy created by the A1 policy management service. Only the methods defined in clause 9.1.5.5.3 shall be supported by these resources.

##### 9.1.5.5.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/a1-policy-management /<apiVersion>/policies/{policyId} The resource URI variables supported by the resource are defined in Table 9.1.5.5.2-1. Name Definition apiRoot See clause 5.2. apiVersion See clause 9.1.2. policyId Policy Identifier of the policy as defined in A1AP [23].

##### 9.1.5.5.3 Resource Standard Methods
9.1.5.5.3.1 PUT This method shall support the request data structures specified in table 9.1.5.5.3.1-1 and the response data structure and response codes specified in table 9.1.5.5.3.1-2. Data type P Cardinality Description PolicyObject M 1 Update the Policy. Data type P Cardinality Response Description codes PolicyObject M 1 200 OK Confirmation of updated policy. ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx Detailed problem description. 9.1.5.5.3.2 GET This method shall support the request data structures specified in table 9.1.5.5.3.2-1 and the response data structures and response codes specified in table 9.1.5.5.3.2-2. Data type P Cardinality Description N/A 0 There is no object in the message content of a GET request. Data type P Cardinality Response Description codes PolicyObject M 1 200 OK Requested policy object. ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx Detailed problem description. 9.1.5.5.3.3 DELETE This method shall support the request data structures specified in table 9.1.5.5.3.3-1 and the response data structures and response codes specified in table 9.1.5.5.3.3-2. Data type P Cardinality Description N/A There is no object in the message content of a DELETE request. Data type P Cardinality Response Description codes N/A 204 No content Confirmation of successful deletion. ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx Detailed problem description.

##### 9.1.5.5.4 Resource Custom Operations
None.

#### 9.1.5.6 Resource: "Individual A1 policy status"

##### 9.1.5.6.1 Description
The resource Individual A1 policy status represents the status of an A1 policy that is available in the A1 policy management service. Only the methods defined in clause 9.1.5.6.3 shall be supported by these resources.

##### 9.1.5.6.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/a1-policy-management /<apiVersion>/policies/{policyId}/status The resource URI variables supported by the resource are defined in Table 9.1.5.6.2-1. Name Definition apiRoot See clause 5.2. apiVersion See clause 9.1.2.

##### 9.1.5.6.3 Resource Standard Methods
9.1.5.6.3.1 GET This method shall support the request data structures specified in table 9.1.5.6.3.1-1 and the response data structures and response codes specified in table 9.1.5.6.3.1-2. Data type P Cardinality Description N/A 0 There is no object in the message content of a GET request. Data type P Cardinality Response Description codes PolicyStatusObject M 1 200 OK Requested policy status object as defined in A1TD[24], clause 6.4.2. ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx Detailed problem description.

##### 9.1.5.6.4 Resource Custom Operations
None.

#### 9.1.5.7 Resource: "All A1 policy status subscriptions"

##### 9.1.5.7.1 Description
The resource represents the subscriptions for A1 policy status notifications. The methods defined in clause 9.1.5.7.3 shall be supported by this resource.

##### 9.1.5.7.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/a1-policy-management /<apiVersion>/policies/subscriptions The resource URI variables supported by the resource are defined in table 9.1.5.7.2-1. Name Definition apiRoot See clause 5.2. apiVersion See clause 9.1.2.

##### 9.1.5.7.3 Resource Standard Methods
9.1.5.7.3.1 POST This method shall support the request data structures specified in table 9.1.5.7.3.1-1 and the response data structures and response codes specified in table 9.1.5.7.3.1-2 and the HTTP headers specified in table 9.1.5.7.3.1-3. Data type P Cardinality Description PolicyStatusSubscription M 1 Information of A1 Policy status subscription information. Data Type P Cardinality Response Description codes PolicyStatusSubscription M 1 201 Created The operation was successful. The message content of the POST response contains a PolicyStatusSubscriptionInfo representing the created resource. ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx The operation was unsuccessful. Detailed problem description may be carried in the response message content. Name Data P Cardinality Description type Location String M 1 Contains the URI of the newly created "Individual A1 policy status subscription" resource as defined in clause 9.1.5.5.2 with subscriptionId in the URI.

##### 9.1.5.7.4 Resource Custom Operations
None

#### 9.1.5.8 Resource: "Individual A1 policy status subscription"

##### 9.1.5.8.1 Description
The resource represents a subscription for A1 policy status notifications. The methods defined in clause 9.1.5.8.3 shall be supported by this resource.

##### 9.1.5.8.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/a1-policy-management /<apiVersion>/policies/subscriptions/{subscriptionId} The resource URI variables supported by the resource are defined in Table 9.1.5.8.2-1. Name Definition apiRoot See clause 5.2. apiVersion See clause 9.1.2. subscriptionId Identifier of subscription.

##### 9.1.5.8.3 Resource Standard Methods
9.1.5.8.3.1 PUT This method shall support the request data structures specified in table 9.1.5.8.3.1-1 and the response data structure and response codes specified in table 9.1.5.8.3.1-2. Data type P Cardinality Description PolicyStatusSubscription M 1 Updated Policy status subscription information. Data type P Cardinality Response Description codes PolicyStatusSubscription M 1 200 OK Confirmation of updated policy status subscription. ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx The operation has failed, and the message content may contain Problem description details. 9.1.5.8.3.2 GET This method shall support the request data structures specified in table 9.1.5.8.3.2-1 and the response data structures and response codes specified in table 9.1.5.8.3.2-2. Data type P Cardinality Description N/A 0 There is no object in the message content of a GET request. Data type P Cardinality Response Description codes PolicyStatusSubscript M 1 200 OK Requested policy status subscription information associated ion with the subscriptionId has been queried successfully and the response contains the PolicyStatusSubscriptionInfo as representation of the queried resource. ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx The operation has failed, and the message content may contain Problem description details. 9.1.5.8.3.3 DELETE This method shall support the request data structures specified in table 9.1.5.8.3.3-1 and the response data structures and response codes specified in table 9.1.5.8.3.3-2. Data type P Cardinality Description N/A There is no object in the message content of a DELETE request. Data type P Cardinality Response Description codes N/A 204 No content Confirmation of successful deletion. ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx The operation has failed, and the message content may contain Problem description details.

##### 9.1.5.8.4 Resource Custom Operations
None.

### 9.1.6 Custom operation without associated resources
None.

### 9.1.7 Notifications

#### 9.1.7.1 Resource: Policy status change notifications

##### 9.1.7.1.1 Description
The resource represents the destination for A1 policy status change notifications.

##### 9.1.7.1.2 Resource Definition
The resource URI (notificationDestination) is provided when subscribing to A1 policy status notifications.

##### 9.1.7.1.3 Resource Standard Methods
9.1.7.1.3.1 POST This method shall support the request data structures specified in table 9.1.7.1.3.1-1 and the response data structure and response codes specified in table 9.1.7.1.3.1-2. Data type P Cardinality Description A1PolicyStatusChange M 1 Notify policy status change as specified in clause 9.1.8.1.6. Notification Data type P Cardinality Response codes Description N/A 204 No content Confirmation of received notification.

### 9.1.8 Data Model

#### 9.1.8.1 Structured data types

##### 9.1.8.1.1 Overview
The following clause defines the structured data types and their attributes to be used by the A1 policy management API.

##### 9.1.8.1.2 Data type: PolicyTypeInformation
The PolicyTypeInformation data type represents a pair of policy type identifier and related Near-RT RIC identifier. It contains the attributes defined in table 9.1.8.1.2-1. Attribute Name Data type P Cardinality Description policyTypeId string M 1 Policy Type identifier as defined in A1AP [23], clause 6.2.3.1.3. nearRtRicId NearRtRicId M 1 Near-RT RIC identifier. The data model for the data types transported is defined in A1TD [24].

##### 9.1.8.1.3 Data type: PolicyInformation
The PolicyInformation data type represents a pair of policy identifier and related Near-RT RIC identifier. It contains the attributes defined in table 9.1.8.1.3-1. Attribute Name Data type P Cardinality Description policyId string M 1 Policy Identifier of a policy as defined in A1AP [23]. nearRtRicId NearRtRicId M 1 Near-RT RIC identifier.

#### 9.1.8.4 Data type: PolicyObjectInformation
The PolicyObjectInformation data type represents a policy object, related Near-RT RIC identifier and optional policy type identifier. It contains the attributes defined in table 9.1.8.1.4-1. Attribute Name Data type P Cardinality Description policyObject object M 1 Policy Object is a JSON representation of an A1 policy; the A1 policies are specified in A1TD [24]. nearRtRicId NearRtRicId M 1 Near-RT RIC identifier. policyTypeId PolicyTypeId O 0..1 policy type identifier as defined in A1AP [23].

##### 9.1.8.1.5 Data type: PolicyStatusSubscription
The PolicyStatusSubscription data type represents the subscription information of A1 policy status. It contains the attributes defined in table 9.1.8.1.5-1. Attribute Name Data type P Cardinalit Description y subscriptionScope QueryFilter C 1 See clause 9.1.8.3.3.1. See NOTE 2, NOTE 4, NOTE 6, NOTE 8,
> NOTE 10.
notificationDestination URI M 1 Call back URI for A1 policy status notifications policyIdList array(policyId) C 1..N List of identifiers of A1 policies as defined in clause 6.2.6 of A1AP [23]. See NOTE 1 ,NOTE 3 and NOTE 4. policyTypeIdList array(policyTypeId) C 1..N List of A1 policy type identifiers as defined in clause 9.1.5.4.3.1 See NOTE 1, NOTE 5, NOTE 6, NOTE9 and
> NOTE 10.
nearRtRicIdList array(NearRtRicId) C 1..N List of Near-RT RIC identifiers as defined in clause 9.1.5.4.3.1. See NOTE 1, NOTE 7, NOTE 8, NOTE9 and
> NOTE 10.
> NOTE 1: It is conditionally optional to include either a policyIdList; or a policytypeIdList; or a nearRtRicIdList; or a
policytypeIdList and a nearRtRicIdList; or none of the lists.
> NOTE 2: If neither policyidList nor policytypeIdList nor nearRtRicIdList is provided, then a subscriptionScope shall be
provided.
> NOTE 3: If a policyIdList is provided, the subscription is for the status of the indicated A1 policies.
> NOTE 4 : if a policyIdList is provided then subscriptionScope shall not be provided.
> NOTE 5: If a policytypeIdList is provided, the subscription is for the status of A1 policies of the indicated A1 policy
types.
> NOTE 6: If both policytypeIdList and subscriptionScope are provided, then the subscription is for the status of A1
policies of the indicated A1 policy types that fulfill the subscriptionScope.
> NOTE 7: If a nearRtRicIdList is provided, the subscription is for the status of A1 policies created in the indicated Near-
RT RICs.
> NOTE 8: If both nearRtRicIdList and subscriptionScope are provided, then the subscription is for the status of A1
policies created in the indicated Near-RT RICs that fulfill the subscriptionScope.
> NOTE 9: If both policytypeIdList and nearRtRicIdList are provided, then the subscription is for the status of A1 policies
of the indicated A1 policy types created in the indicated Near-RT RICs.
> NOTE 10: If policytypeIdList, nearRtRicIdList and subscriptionScope are provided, then the subscription is for the
status of A1 policies of the indicated A1 policy types created in the indicated Near-RT RICs that fulfill the subscriptionScope.

##### 9.1.8.1.6 Data type: A1PolicyStatusChangeNotification
Attribute Name Data type P Cardinality Description subscriptionId SubscriptionId M 1 Identifier of Subscription as specified in clause 9.1.5.5.2. policyStates array(SubscriptionSt M 1..N List of policy states to be notified about. atusObject)

##### 9.1.8.1.7 Data type: SubscriptionStatusObject
Attribute Name Data type P Cardinality Description policyId PolicyId M 1 Policy identifier as specified in clause 6.2.6 of A1AP [23]. policyStatusObject PolicyStatusObject M 1..N Policy status object as specified in clause 6.4.2 of A1TD [24].

#### 9.1.8.2 Simple data types and enumerations

##### 9.1.8.2.1 Introduction
The following clause defines simple data types and enumerations that can be referenced from data structures defined in the previous clauses.

##### 9.1.8.2.2 Simple data types
The resource identifiers defined in clause include policy type identifier and policy identifier based on the simple data types specified in table 9.1.8.2.2-1. Type Name Type Definition Description Applicability PolicyTypeId string policy type identifier as defined in A1TD [24]. PolicyId string policy identifier of an A1 policy as defined in A1 AP [23]. NearRtRicId string Near RT RIC identifier.

##### 9.1.8.3.3 Enumerations
9.1.8.3.3.1 Enumeration: QueryFilter This indicates whether the request is for A1 policies created by the requesting API Consumer, for A1 policies created by other API Consumers, or for all A1 policies created by any API Consumer. Enumerations Value Description OWN indicate the A1 policies created by API Consumer. OTHERS indicate the A1 policies created other API Consumers. ALL indicate the A1 policies created by any API Consumers.

#### 9.1.8.3 Re-used data types
None.

#### 9.1.8.4 Service-specific registration information
None.

### 9.1.9 Error Handling

#### 9.1.9.1 General
In addition to the general provisions in clause 5.4.3, the requirements in the following clauses are applicable for the A1 policy management API.

#### 9.1.9.2 Protocol Errors
No specific protocol errors are defined in the present document.

#### 9.1.9.3 Application Errors
The application errors defined for the A1 policy management service are listed in table 9.1.9.3-1. Application Error HTTP status code Description Unauthorized 401 Used when the API consumer lacks proper authentication credentials or has provided invalid credentials Forbidden 403 Used when the API Consumer has successfully authenticated the user, but the user is still denied access to the requested resource. Bad Request 400 Used when the A1 policy management service cannot or will not process a request, e.g., when the validation of PolicyObject towards a policy type schema, or the validation of PolicyStatusObject towards a policy status schema, fails. Not Found 404 Used when the Near-RT RIC did not find a current representation for the resource representing a policy type or a policy, e.g., for a policy type that is not available or a policy that does not exist. Method Not Allowed 405 Used when the HTTP method is not supported by the resource defined for the A1 policy management API. Conflict 409 Used if detecting that a policy requested to be created or updated may be overlapping or conflicting with a policy that exists in the Near-RT RIC. Application errors should be mapped to the most applicable 4xx/5xx HTTP error status code. If no such status code is applicable, one of the status codes 400 (Bad Request) or 500 (Internal Server Error) should be used. The HTTP status codes listed in table 9.1.9.3-1 shall be used as defined in clause 5.4.3 for the A1 policy management procedures and clause 9.1.5 for the resources. Implementations may use additional HTTP error status codes in addition to those listed in table 9.1.9.3-1, as long as they are valid HTTP status codes. A list of all valid HTTP status codes and their specification documents can be obtained from the HTTP status code registry [21]. In addition, the response body may contain a JSON representation of a “ProblemDetails“ data structure in the payload body as defined in clause 9.1.8.2.2. In that case, as defined by IETF RFC 7807 [10], the “Content-Type“ HTTP header shall be set to “application/problem+json“. 10. AI/ML workflow services

## 10.1 AI/ML model registration API

### 10.1.1 Introduction
This API enables the API Consumer to register, query, update and deregister an AI/ML model based on the AI/Ml model registration service defined in R1GAP [5].

### 10.1.2 API version
For the AI/ML model registration API as specified in the present document, the MAJOR version field shall be 1, the MINOR version field shall be 0 and the PATCH version field shall be 0 (see 3GPP TS 29.501 [1] for a definition of the version fields). Consequently, the <apiVersion> URI path segment shall be set to “v1“.

### 10.1.3 Resource structure and methods
The request URIs used in HTTP requests from the API Consumer towards the API Producer shall have the resource URI structure as defined in clause 5.2. The <apiName> resource URI variable shall be “ai-ml-model-registration“. The <apiSpecificResourceUriPart> for each resource shall be set as described in clause 10.1.5. {apiRoot}/ai-ml-model-registration/<apiVersion> /model-registrations /{modelRegistrationId} Table: 10.1.3-1 1 lists the individual resources defined for the API, the applicable HTTP methods, and the associated service operations. Resource name Resource URI HTTP Service Operation method Registered model …/ model-registrations POST Register model information. registrations Individual registered …/ model-registrations/{modelRegistrationId} GET Query model registration model registration information. PUT Update model registration information. DELETE Deregister model registration information.

### 10.1.4 Service operations

#### 10.1.4.1 Register model information

##### 10.1.4.1.1 Operation definition
The API Consumer uses this operation to register AI/ML model information. The operation to register the model information is based on HTTP POST. Consumer ->> Producer: POST …/model-registrations (ModelRelatedInformation) Producer -->> Consumer: 201 Created (ModelRelatedInformation) The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP POST request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource (…/model-registrations) under which the new registration is requested to be created. The message content shall carry a ModelRelatedInformation structure. 2. The API Producer shall generate the model registration identifier and construct the URI for the created resource. The API Producer shall return the HTTP POST response. On success, “201 Created“ shall be returned. The “Location“ header shall be present and shall carry the URI of the new registration resource. The message content shall carry a ModelRelatedInformation structure that represents the new resource. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the message content may contain additional error information.

##### 10.1.4.1.2 Referenced procedures.
10.1.4.1.2.1 Register AI/ML model procedure The Register model information operation illustrated in figure 10.1.4.1.1-1. is based on the Register AI/ML model procedure defined for the AI/ML workflow services in R1GAP [5].

#### 10.1.4.2 Deregister model information.

##### 10.1.4.2.1 Operation definition
The API Consumer uses this operation to delete the registered model information. The operation to deregister an AI/ML model information that was previously registered is based on HTTP DELETE. Consumer ->> Producer: DELETE …/model-registrations/{modelRegistrationId} Producer -->> Consumer: 204 No Content The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP DELETE request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource to be deleted (…/model-registrations/{modelRegistrationId}). 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP DELETE response. On success, “204 No Content“ shall be returned and the response message content shall be empty. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the message response content may contain additional error information.

##### 10.1.4.2.2 Referenced procedures.
10.1.4.2.2.1 Deregister AI/ML Model procedure. The Deregister model information operation illustrated in figure 10.1.4.2.1-1 is based on the Deregister AI/ML model procedure defined for the AI/ML workflow services in R1GAP [5].

#### 10.1.4.3 Update model information

##### 10.1.4.3.1 Operation definition
The API Consumer uses this operation to Update model information. The operation to update the model information is based on HTTP PUT. Consumer ->> Producer: PUT…/model-registrations/\n{modelRegistrationId} (ModelRelatedInformation) Producer -->> Consumer: 200 OK (ModelRelatedInformation) The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP PUT request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource (…/model-registrations/{modelRegistrationId}). The message content shall carry an updated ModelRelatedInformation structure. The API producer shall process the HTTP PUT message and determine if the request sent by the API Consumer is authorized or not. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP PUT response. On success, “200 OK“ shall be returned. The message body shall contain updated ModelRelatedInformation structure On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the message content may contain additional error information.

##### 10.1.4.3.2 Referenced procedures.
10.1.4.3.2.1 Update AI/ML model registration procedure The Update model information operation illustrated in figure 10.1.4.1.1-1. is based on the Update AI/ML model registration procedure defined for the AI/ML workflow services in R1GAP [5].

#### 10.1.4.4 Query model information

##### 10.1.4.4.1 Operation definition
The API Consumer uses this operation to query model information that it has previously registered. The operation to query model information is based on HTTP GET. Consumer ->> Producer: GET …/model-registrations/{modelRegistrationId} Producer -->> Consumer: 200 OK (ModelRelatedInformation) The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP GET request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource (…/model-registrations/{modelRegistrationId}). The message content shall be empty. The API producer shall process the HTTP GET message and determine if the request sent by the API Consumer is authorized or not. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP GET response. On success, “200 OK“ shall be returned. The message content shall carry the queried model related information. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the message content may contain additional error information.

##### 10.1.4.4.2 Referenced procedures.
10.1.4.4.2.1 Query AI/ML model registration procedure The Query model information operation illustrated in figure 10.1.4.4.1-1. is based on the Query AI/ML model registration procedure defined for the AI/ML workflow services in R1GAP [5].

### 10.1.5 Resources

#### 10.1.5.1 Overview
The following clause defines the resources for the AI/ML model registration API.

#### 10.1.5.2 Resource: "Registered model registrations"

##### 10.1.5.2.1 Description
The resource represents the model information of an rApp that it wants to register. Only the methods defined in clause 10.1.5.2.3 shall be supported by this resource.

##### 10.1.5.2.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/ai-ml-model-registration/<apiVersion>/model-registrations The resource URI variables supported by the resource is defined in Table 10.1.5.2.2-1. Name Definition apiRoot See clause 5.2. apiVersion See clause 10.1.2.

##### 10.1.5.2.3 Resource Standard Methods
10.1.5.2.3.1 POST This method shall support the request data structure specified in the table 10.1.5.2.3.1-1 and the response data structure and response code specified in the table 10.1.5.2.3.1-2, and the HTTP headers specified in table 10.1.5.2.3.1-3. Data Type P Cardinality Description ModelRelatedInformation M 1 Information related to the model Data Type P Cardinality Response Description codes ModelRelatedInformation M 1 201 Created The operation was successful, and the message content of the POST response contains a ModelRelatedInformation structure as a representation of the created resource. ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx The operation has failed, and the message content may contain Problem description details. Name Data P Cardinality Description type Location string M 1 Contains the URI of the newly created “Individual registered ModelInformation“ resource, as defined in clause 10.1.5.3, with the registrationId in the URI.

#### 10.1.5.3 Resource: "Individual registered model registration"

##### 10.1.5.3.1 Description
The resource represents the model information of an rApp that it wants to update, deregister, and query. Only the methods defined in clause 10.1.5.3.3 shall be supported by this resource.

##### 10.1.5.3.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/ai-ml-model-registration/<apiVersion>/model-registrations/{modelRegistrationId} The resource URI variables supported by the resource are defined in Table 10.1.5.3.2-1. Name Definition apiRoot See clause 5.2. apiVersion See clause 10.1.2. modelRegistrationId The registration identifier of the model.

##### 10.1.5.3.3 Resource Standard Methods
10.1.5.3.3.1 DELETE This method shall support the request data structure specified in table 10.1.5.3.3.1-1 and the response data structure and response code specified in 10.1.5.3.3.1-2. Data type P Cardinality Description N/A A DELETE request has no message content. Data type P Cardinality Response codes Description N/A 204 No Content The AI/ML model registration associated with the modelRegistrationId has been deleted successfully. The message content shall be empty. ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx The operation has failed, and the message content may contain Problem description details. 10.1.5.3.3.2 PUT This method shall support the request data structure specified in the table 10.1.5.3.3.2-1 and the response data structure and response code specified in the table 10.1.5.3.3.2-2. Data Type P Cardinality Description ModelRelatedInformation M 1 Updated model related information. Data Type P Cardinality Response Description codes ModelRelatedInformation M 1 200 OK The model related information associated with the modelRegistrationId has been updated successfully and the response contain the ModelRelatedInformation as a representation of the updated resource. ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx The operation has failed, and the message content may contain Problem description details. 10.1.5.3.3.3 GET This method shall support the request data structure specified in the table 10.1.5.3.3.3-1 and the response data structure and response code specified in the table 10.1.5.3.3.3-2. Data Type P Cardinality Description N/A A GET request has no message content Data Type P Cardinality Response Description codes ModelRelatedInformation M 1 200 OK The model related information registration associated with the modelRegistrationId has been queried successfully and the response contain the ModelRelatedInformation as a representation of the query resource. ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx The operation has failed, and the message content may contain Problem description details.

##### 10.1.5.3.4 Resource Custom Operations
None.

### 10.1.6 Custom operation without associated resources.
None.

### 10.1.7 Notifications
None.

### 10.1.8 Data Model

#### 10.1.8.1 Structured data types

##### 10.1.8.1.1 Overview
The following clauses define the structured data types and their attributes to be used by the AI/ML model registration API.

##### 10.1.8.1.2 Data type: ModelRelatedInformation
The ModelRelatedInformation data type represents registration information for an AI/ML model . It contains the attributes defined in table 10.1.8.1.2-1. Attribute Name Data type P Cardinality Description modelId ModelId M 1 Identifier of a model description string M 1 Description of the AIML model modelInformation ModelInformation M 1 Information of the AIML model modelLocation URI O 0..1 Location of the model stored in the runtime catalogue that can be discovered and referred to when using AI/ML workflow services.

##### 10.1.8.1.3 Data type: ModelId
The ModelId data type represents information of AI/ML model . It contains the attributes defined in table 10.1.8.1.3-1. Attribute Name Data type P Cardinality Description modelName String M 1 Name of the model as specified in R1GAP [1]. modelVersion String M 1 Version of the model as specified in R1GAP [1]. artifactVersion String O 0..1 Artifact version of AIML model as specified in R1GAP [1].

##### 10.1.8.1.4 Data type: ModelInformation
The Model information data type contains the attributes defined in table 10.1.8.1.4-1. Attribute Name Data type P Cardinality Description metadata MetaData M 1 Metadata of the model. inputDataType array(dataTypeId) M 1..N Input data type for the model, the structure of dataTypeId is specified in clause 7.1.8. outputDataType array(dataTypeId) M 1..N Output data type for the model, the structure of dataTypeId is specified in clause 7.1.8. targetEnvironment array(TargetEnvironment) O 0..N Information on the target environment is required for deployment of an AI/ML model.

##### 10.1.8.1.5 Data type: MetaData
The Metadata data type contains the attributes defined in table 10.1.8.1.5-1. Attribute Name Data type P Cardinality Description author String M 1 Author of the AIML model. owner String O 0..1 Ownership of the AIML model to regulate how the model can be used in the Run- Time environment.

##### 10.1.8.1.6 TargetEnvironment
The TargetEnvironment data type contains the attributes defined in table 10.1.8.1.6-1. Attribute Name Data type P Cardinality Description platformName String M 1 Name of the platform. environmentType String M 1 Name of the platform Execution service type, and this is dependent on the platformName. dependencyList URI M 1 Location to the template that has all the list of dependencies platform must provide needs to be installed for the model. (for example, scikit-learn 0.21.3).

#### 10.1.8.2 Simple data types and enumerations

##### 10.1.8.2.1 Enumerations
For this AI/ML model registration API, no enumerations are defined in the present document.

### 10.1.9 Error Handling

#### 10.1.9.1 General
In addition to the general provisions in clause 5.4.3, the requirements in the following clauses are applicable for the AI/ML model Registration API.

#### 10.1.9.2 Protocol Errors
No specific protocol errors are defined in the present document.

#### 10.1.9.3 Application Errors
No additional application errors defined in the present document.

## 10.2 AI/ML model discovery API

### 10.2.1 Introduction
This API enables the API Consumer to discover an AI/ML model based on the AI/ML model discovery service defined in R1GAP [5].

### 10.2.2 API version
For the AI/ML model discovery API as specified in the present document, the MAJOR version field shall be 1, the MINOR version field shall be 1 and the PATCH version field shall be 0 (see 3GPP TS 29.501 [1] for a definition of the version fields). Consequently, the <apiVersion> URI path segment shall be set to “v1.1“.

### 10.2.3 Resource structure and methods
The request URIs used in HTTP requests from the API Consumer towards the API Producer shall have the resource URI structure as defined in clause 5.2. The <apiName> resource URI variable shall be “ai-ml-model-discovery“. {a p iR o o t} /a i- m l- m o d e l- d is c o v e r y /< a p iV e r s io n > / m /{m o o d d e e ls lId } Table: 10.2.3-1 lists the individual resources defined for the API, the applicable HTTP methods, and the associated service operations. Resource name Resource URI HTTP method Service Operation ALL registered models …/models GET Discover registered AI/ML models Individual AI/ML model /models/{modelId} GET Query AI/ML model

### 10.2.4 Service operations

#### 10.2.4.1 Discover AI/ML models
The API Consumer uses this operation to discover the registered AI/ML models. The operation to discover the AI/ML models is based on HTTP GET. Consumer ->> Producer: GET …/models Producer -->> Consumer: 200 OK (array(ModelRelatedInformation)) The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP GET request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource (…/models) and may also contain query parameters to discover the registered model identifiers. The API Producer shall process the request received in the HTTP GET message and determine if the request sent by the API Consumer is authorized or not. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP GET response. On success, “200 OK“ shall be returned and the message content shall carry an array of ModelRelatedInformation that shall include modelId and corresponding metadata. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message content may contain additional error information.

##### 10.2.4.1.2 Referenced procedures.
10.2.4.1.2.1 Discover AI/ML model procedure. The Discover AI/ML models operation illustrated in figure 10.2.4.1-1 is based on the Discover AI/ML model procedure defined for the AI/ML workflow service in R1GAP [5].

#### 10.2.4.2 Query AI/ML models
The API Consumer uses this operation to query location information about a registered AI/ML model. The operation to query the AI/ML models is based on HTTP GET. Consumer ->> Producer: GET /models/{modelId} Producer -->> Consumer: 200 OK (ModelLocationInfomation) 1) The API Consumer shall send an HTTP GET request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource "/models/{modelId}", the message content shall carry a modelId. The API Producer shall process the request received in the HTTP GET message and determine if the request sent by the API Consumer is authorized or not. 2) The API Producer shall return the HTTP GET response. On success, “200 OK“ shall be returned and the message content shall carry a ModelLocationInfomation structure. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message content may contain additional error information.

##### 10.2.4.2.2 Referenced procedures.
10.2.4.2.2.1 Discover AI/ML model procedure. The Discover AI/ML models operation illustrated in figure 10.2.4.2-1 is based on the Discover AI/ML model procedure defined for the AI/ML workflow service in R1GAP [5].

### 10.2.5 Resources

#### 10.2.5.1 Overview
This clause defines the resource for the AI/ML model discovery API.

#### 10.2.5.2 Resource: "All registered models"

##### 10.2.5.2.1 Description
The resource represents all registered AI/ML models in the Non-RT RIC. The methods defined in clause 10.2.5.2.3 shall be supported by this resource.

##### 10.2.5.2.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/ai-ml-model-discovery/<apiVersion>/models The resource URI variables supported by the resource is defined in table 10.2.5.2.2-1. Name Definition apiRoot See clause 5.2. apiVersion See clause 10.2.2.

##### 10.2.5.2.3 Resource Standard Methods
10.2.5.2.3.1 GET This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table 10.2.5.2.3.1-1, the request data structure specified in the table 10.2.5.2.3.1-2 and the response data structures, and response code specified in the table 10.2.5.2.3.1-3. Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability model-name string O 0..1 Name of the model as specified in R1GAP [5] (See NOTE). model-version string O 0..1 Version of the model as specified in R1GAP [5] (See NOTE).
> NOTE: If multiple query parameters are provided these shall be combined with AND when evaluating the query.
Data Type P Cardinality Description N/A There is no object in the message content of the GET request. Data type P Cardinality Response Description codes array (ModelRelatedInformation) O 0..N 200 OK The message content of the GET response carries an array of model identifiers and metadata of the models. ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx Detailed problem description.

#### 10.2.5.3 Resource; “Individual I/ML model”

##### 10.2.5.3.1 Description
The resource represents the model location. The methods defined in clause 10.2.5.2.3 shall be supported by this resource.

##### 10.2.5.3.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/ai-ml-model-discovery/<apiVersion>/models/{modelId} The resource URI variables supported by the resource is defined in table 10.2.5.3.2-1. Name Definition apiRoot See clause 5.2 apiVersion See clause 10.2.2

##### 10.2.5.3.3 Resource Standard Methods
10.2.5.3.3.1 GET This method shall support the request data structures specified in the table 10.2.5.3.3.1-1 and the response data structures and response codes specified in table 10.2.5.3.3.1-2. Data type P Cardinality Description modelId M 1 The identifier of the model. Data type P Cardinality Response Description codes ModelLocationInfomation 200 OK The model location related information associated with the modelId has been got successfully and the response contain the ModelLocationInformation as a representation of the updated resource. ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx Detailed problem description

##### 10.2.5.3.4 Resource Custom Methods
None.

### 10.2.6 Custom operation without associated resources
None.

### 10.2.7 Notifications
> NOTE: no notifications are specified in the current version of the present document.

### 10.2.8 Data Model

#### 10.2.8.1 Structured data types

##### 10.2.8.1.1 Overview
The following clause defines the structured data types and their attributes to be used by the service API.

##### 10.2.8.1.2 Data type: ModelRelatedInformation
The ModelRelatedInformation data type represents registration information for an AI/ML model . It contains the attributes defined in table 10.2.8.1.2-1. Attribute Name Data type P Cardinality Description modelId ModelId M 1 Identifier of a model as specified in clause 10.1.8.1.3 metadata string M 1 Description of the AIML model that includes the AI/ML model related information and training related information.

##### 10.2.8.1.3 Data type: ModelLocationInfomation
The ModelLocationInfomation data type represents location information for an AI/ML model . It contains the attributes defined in table 10.2.8.1.3-1. Attribute Name Data type P Cardinality Description locationUri string M 1 The URI where the AI/ML model artifact can be accessed. modelId ModelId O 0..1 Identifier of a model as specified in clause 10.1.8.1.3.

#### 10.2.8.2 Simple data types and enumerations

##### 10.2.8.2.1 Introduction
The following clause defines simple data types and enumerations that can be referenced from data structures defined in the previous clauses.

##### 10.2.8.2.2 Simple data types
For this service API, no simple data types are defined in the present document.

##### 10.2.8.3.3 Enumerations
For this service API, no enumerations are defined in the present document.

### 10.2.9 Error Handling

#### 10.2.9.1 General
In addition to the general provisions in clause 5.4.3, the requirements in the following clauses are applicable for the AI/ML model discovery API.

#### 10.2.9.2 Protocol Errors
No specific protocol errors are defined in the present document.

#### 10.2.9.3 Application Errors
No additional application errors defined in the present document.

## 10.3 AI/ML model training API

### 10.3.1 Introduction
This API enables the API Consumer to request AI/ML model training, query AI/ML model training job status, and cancel AI/ML model training based on the procedures for “AI/ML model training services“ as defined in R1GAP [5]. It also allows the API Producer to notify AI/ML model training job status change based on the procedure for “AI/ML model training services“ defined in R1GAP [5].

### 10.3.2 API version
For the AI/ML model training API as specified in the present document, the MAJOR version field shall be 1, the MINOR version field shall be 0, and the PATCH version field shall be 0 (see 3GPP TS 29.501 [1] for a definition of the version fields). Consequently, the <apiVersion> URI path segment shall be set to “v1“. The AI/ML model training API is under development and consequently the API version shall include the pre-release version “alpha.1“.

### 10.3.3 Resource structure and methods
The request URIs used in HTTP requests from the API Consumer towards the API Producer shall have the resource URI structure as defined in clause 5.2. The <apiName> resource URI variable shall be “ai-ml-model-training“. {apiRoot}/ai-ml-model-training/<apiVersion> /training-jobs /{trainingJoblId} /status Table: 10.3.3-1 lists the individual resources defined for the API, the applicable HTTP methods, and the associated service operations. Resource name Resource URI HTTP Service Operation method All AI/ML model training …/training-jobs POST Request AI/ML model jobs training. Individual AI/ML model …/training-jobs/{trainingJobId} DELETE Cancel AI/ML model training job training job. Individual AI/ML model …/training-jobs/{trainingJobId}/status GET Query AI/ML model training job status training job status.

### 10.3.4 Service operations

#### 10.3.4.1 Request AI/ML model training

##### 10.3.4.1.1 Operation definition
The API Consumer uses this operation to request AI/ML model training. The operation to create AI/ML model training job is based on HTTP POST. Consumer ->> Producer: POST …/training-jobs (TrainingJobInfo) Producer -->> Consumer: 201 Created (TrainingJobInfo) The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP POST request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource “/training-jobs“, the message content shall carry a TrainingJobInfo structure which includes information for training. The API Producer shall process the request received in the HTTP POST message and determine if the request sent by the API Consumer is authorized or not. 2. The API Producer shall generate the training job identifier and construct the URI for the created resource. The API Producer shall return the HTTP POST response. On success, “201 Created“ shall be returned. The “Location“ HTTP header shall be present and shall carry the URI for the newly created resource. The message content shall carry a TrainingJobInfo structure represents the new resource. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the message content may contain additional error information.

##### 10.3.4.1.2 Referenced procedures.
10.3.4.1.2.1 Request AI/ML model training procedure The request AI/ML model training operation illustrated in figure 10.3.4.1.1-1 is based on the request AI/ML model training procedure defined in R1GAP [5].

#### 10.3.4.2 Cancel AI/ML model training

##### 10.3.4.2.1 Operation definition
The API Consumer uses this operation to cancel AI/ML model training. The operation to delete AI/ML model training job is based on HTTP DELETE. Consumer ->> Producer: DELETE …/training-jobs/{trainingJobId} Producer -->> Consumer: 204 No Content The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP DELETE request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the training job resource to be deleted as “/training-jobs/{trainingJobId}“, the message content shall be empty. The API Producer shall process the request received in the HTTP DELETE message and determine if the request sent by the API Consumer is authorized or not. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP DELETE response. On success, “204 No Content“ shall be returned. The message content shall be empty. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message content may contain additional error information.

##### 10.3.4.2.2 Referenced procedures.
10.3.4.2.2.1 Cancel AI/ML model training procedure The cancel AI/ML model training operation illustrated in figure 10.3.4.2.1-1 is based on the cancel AI/ML model training procedure defined in R1GAP [5].

#### 10.3.4.3 Query AI/ML model training job status

##### 10.3.4.3.1 Operation definition
The API Consumer uses this operation to query the AI/ML model training job status. The operation to query AI/ML model training job status is based on HTTP GET. Consumer ->> Producer: GET …/training-jobs/{trainingJobId}/status Producer -->> Consumer: 200 OK (TrainingJobStatus) The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Consumer shall send an HTTP GET request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource “/training-jobs/{trainingJobId}/status“, the message content shall be empty. The API Producer shall process the request received in the HTTP GET message and determine if the request sent by the API Consumer is authorized or not. 2. The API Producer shall return the HTTP GET response. On success, “200 OK“ shall be returned. The message content shall carry a TrainingJobStatus representing the status of the training job, which is identified by the trainingJobId. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message content may contain additional error information.

##### 10.3.4.3.2 Referenced procedures.
10.3.4.3.2.1 Query AI/ML model training job status procedure The query AI/ML model training job status operation illustrated in figure 10.3.4.3.1-1 is based on the query AI/ML model training job status procedure defined in R1GAP [5].

#### 10.3.4.4 Notify AI/ML model training job status change

##### 10.3.4.4.1 Operation definition
The API Producer uses this operation to notify the status change of an AI/ML model training job. The operation to notify AI/ML model training job status change is based on HTTP POST. Consumer <<- Producer: POST {notificationDestination} (TrainingJobStatusChangeNotification) Consumer -->> Producer: 204 No Content I onsumer I roducer {notification estination} ( rainin ob tatus an e otification o ontent I onsumer I roducer The service operation is as follows: 1. The API Producer shall send an HTTP POST request to the API Consumer. The target URI {notificationDestination} shall be the one provided by API Consumer during the creation of the training job, the message content shall carry a TrainingJobStatusChangeNotification which includes the updated training job status. The API Consumer shall process the request received in the HTTP POST message and determine if the request sent by the API Producer is authorized or not. 2. The API Consumer shall return the HTTP POST response. On success, “204 No Content“ shall be returned. The message content shall be empty. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message content may contain additional error information.

##### 10.3.4.4.2 Referenced procedures.
10.3.4.4.2.1 Notify AI/ML model training job status change procedure The notify AI/ML model training job status change operation illustrated in figure 10.3.4.4.1-1 is based on the notify AI/ML model training job status change procedure defined in R1GAP [5].

### 10.3.5 Resources

#### 10.3.5.1 Overview
This clause defines the resource for the AI/ML model training API.

#### 10.3.5.2 Resource: "All AI/ML model training jobs"

##### 10.3.5.2.1 Description
The resource represents all AI/ML model training jobs created in the AI/ML model training API producer. The methods defined in clause 10.3.5.2.3 shall be supported by this resource.

##### 10.3.5.2.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/ai-ml-model-training/<apiVersion>/training-jobs The resource URI variables supported by the resource is defined in table 10.3.5.2.2-1. Name Definition apiRoot See clause 5.2. apiVersion See clause 10.3.2.

##### 10.3.5.2.3 Resource Standard Methods
10.3.5.2.3.1 POST This method shall support the request data structures specified in the table 10.3.5.2.3.1-1 and the response data structures, and response codes specified in table 10.3.5.2.3.1-2 and the HTTP headers specified in table 10.3.5.2.3.1-3. Data type P Cardinality Description TrainingJobInfo M 1 Information related to the creation of the AI/ML model training job. Data type P Cardinalit Response Description y codes TrainingJobInfo M 1 201 Created Confirmation of creation of the AI/ML model training job. ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx Detailed problem description. Name Data P Cardinality Description type Location string M 1 Contains the URI of the newly created individual AI/ML model training job resource, as defined in clause 10.3.5.3, with the trainingJobId in the URI.

##### 10.3.5.2.4 Resource Custom Methods
None.

#### 10.3.5.3 Resource: "Individual AI/ML model training job"

##### 10.3.5.3.1 Description
The resource represents an individual AI/ML model training job created in the AI/ML model training API producer. The methods defined in clause 10.2.5.3.3 shall be supported by this resource.

##### 10.3.5.3.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/ai-ml-model-training/<apiVersion>/training-jobs/{trainingJobId} The resource URI variables supported by the resource is defined in table 10.3.5.3.2-1. Name Definition apiRoot See clause 5.2. apiVersion See clause 10.3.2. trainingJobId The training job identifier assigned by the Service Producer.

##### 10.3.5.3.3 Resource Standard Methods
10.3.5.3.3.1 DELETE This method shall support the request data structures specified in the table 10.3.5.3.3.1-1 and the response data structures, and response codes specified in table 10.3.5.3.3.1-2. Data type P Cardinality Description N/A There is no object in the message content of a DELETE request. Data type P Cardinalit Response Description y codes N/A 204 No content Confirmation of successful deletion. ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx Detailed problem description.

##### 10.3.5.3.4 Resource Custom Methods
None.

#### 10.3.5.4 Resource: "Individual AI/ML model training job status"

##### 10.3.5.4.1 Description
The resource represents the status of an individual AI/ML model training job created in the Non-RT RIC. The methods defined in clause 10.3.5.4.3 shall be supported by this resource.

##### 10.3.5.4.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/ai-ml-model-training/<apiVersion>/training-jobs/{trainingJobId}/status The resource URI variables supported by the resource is defined in table 10.3.5.4.2-1. Name Definition apiRoot See clause 5.2. apiVersion See clause 10.3.2. trainingJobId The training job identifier assigned by the Service Producer.

##### 10.3.5.4.3 Resource Standard Methods
10.3.5.4.3.1 GET This method shall support the request data structures specified in the table 10.3.5.4.3.1-1 and the response data structures, and response codes specified in table 10.3.5.4.3.1-2. Data type P Cardinality Description N/A There is no object in the message content of a GET request. Data type P Cardinalit Response Description y codes TrainingJobStatus M 1 200 OK The status of the AI/ML model training job. ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx Detailed problem description.

##### 10.3.5.4.4 Resource Custom Methods
None.

### 10.3.6 Custom operation without associated resources.
None.

### 10.3.7 Notificationss

#### 10.3.7.1 Notify training job status change.

##### 10.3.7.1.1 Description
The notification informs the receiver about the updated status of an AI/ML model training job.

##### 10.3.7.1.2 Resource Definition
The Resource URI {notificationDestination} is a callback URI provided when creating an AI/ML model training job.

##### 10.3.7.1.3 Resource Standard Methods
10.3.7.1.3.1 POST This method shall support the request data structures specified in table 10.3.7.1.3.1-1 and the response data structure and response codes specified in table 10.3.7.1.3.1-2. Data type P Cardinality Description TrainingJobStatusChangeNotification M 1 Notify a status changes of an AI/ML model training job. Data type P Cardinality Response codes Description N/A 204 No content Confirmation of received notification. ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx The operation was unsuccessful. Detailed problem description may be carried in the response message content.

### 10.3.8 Data Model

#### 10.3.8.1 Structured data types

##### 10.3.8.1.1 Overview
The following clauses define the data types and attributes to be used by the AI/ML model training API.

##### 10.3.8.1.2 Data type: TrainingJobInfo
Attribute Name Data type P Cardinality Description modelId ModelId M 1 The model identifier which contains model name, model version, and artifact version. See clause 10.1.8.1.3-1. modelLocation Uri O 0..1 Location of the AI/ML model. trainingDataset Uri O 0..1 Information for reference to the training dataset. trainingConfig Object O 0..1 trainingConfig provided by the training service producer. notificationDestination Uri O 0..1 Callback URI where the notification should be delivered to. trainingProducerId String O 0..1 Identifier of trainin producer ”apfId” as specified in SME.

#### 10.3.8.2 Simple data types and enumerations

##### 10.3.8.2.1 Overview
The following clauses define simple data types and enumerations that can be referenced from data structure defined in the previous clauses.

##### 10.3.8.2.2 Simple data types
No simple data types are defined in this version of the specification.

##### 10.3.8.2.3 Enumerations
No enumerations are defined in this version of the specification.

### 10.3.9 Error Handling

#### 10.3.9.1 General
For the AI/ML model training API, HTTP error responses shall be supported as specified in 3GPP TS 29.501 [1]. Protocol errors and application errors specified in 3GPP TS 29.500 [2], table 5.2.7.2-1, shall be supported for an HTTP method if the corresponding HTTP status codes are specified as mandatory for that HTTP method in 3GPP TS 29.500 [2], table 5.2.7.1-1. In addition, the requirements in the following clauses are applicable for the AI/ML model training API.

#### 10.3.9.2 Protocol Errors
No specific protocol errors are defined in the present document.

#### 10.3.9.3 Application Errors
No additional application errors defined in the present document.

## 10.4 AI/ML model deployment API

### 10.4.1 Introduction
This API enables the API Consumer to request the deployment of an AI/ML model based on the AI/ML model deployment request service defined in R1GAP [5].

### 10.4.2 API version
For the AI/ML model deployment API as specified in the present document, the MAJOR version field shall be 1, the MINOR version field shall be 0 and the PATCH version field shall be 0 (see 3GPP TS 29.501 [1] for a definition of the version fields). Consequently, the <apiVersion> URI path segment shall be set to "v1". The AI/ML model deployment API is under development and consequently the API version shall include the pre-release version "alpha.1".

### 10.4.3 Resource structure and methods
The request URIs used in HTTP requests from the API Consumer towards the API Producer shall have the resource URI structure as defined in clause 5.2. The <apiName> resource URI variable shall be " ai-ml-model-deployment". The <apiSpecificResourceUriPart> for each resource shall be set as described in clause 10.4.5. {apiRoot}/ai-ml-model-deployment/<apiVersion> /model-deployments /{modelDeploymentId} /status Table: 10.4.3-1 lists the individual resources defined for the API, the applicable HTTP methods, and the associated service operations. Resource name Resource URI HTTP Service Operation method All AI/ML model deployments …/model-deployments POST Request AI/ML model deployment. Individual AI/ML deployment status …/model-deployments/{ GET Query AI/ML model modelDeploymentId }/status deployment status.

### 10.4.4 Service operations

#### 10.4.4.1 Request AI/ML model deployment

##### 10.4.4.1.1 Operation definition
The API Consumer uses this operation to request AI/ML model deployment. The operation to request AI/ML model deployment is based on HTTP POST. Consumer ->> Producer: POST …/model-deployments (ModelDeploymentInformation) Producer -->> Consumer: 201 Created (ModelDeploymentInformation) The service operation is as follows: 1) The API Consumer shall send an HTTP POST request to the API Producer. The target URI shall identify the resource "/modeldeployments", the message content shall carry a ModelDeploymentInfromation which includes information for deployment. The API Producer shall process the request received in the HTTP POST message and determine if the request sent by the API Consumer is authorized or not. 2) The API Producer shall generate the deployment identifier and construct the URI for the created resource. The API Producer shall return the HTTP POST response. On success, "201 Created" shall be returned. The "Location" header shall be present and shall carry the URI of the new resource. The message content shall carry a ModelDeploymentInfromation structure that represents the new resource. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the message content may contain additional error information.

##### 10.4.4.1.2 Referenced procedures.
10.4.4.1.2.1 Request AI/ML model deployment procedure The request AI/ML model deployment operation illustrated in figure 10.4.4.1.1-1 is based on the request AI/ML model deployment procedure defined in R1GAP [5].

#### 10.4.4.2 Notify AI/ML model deployment status change

##### 10.4.4.2.1 Operation definition
The API Producer uses this operation to notify the change of an AI/ML model deployment status. The operation to notify AI/ML model deployment status change is based on HTTP POST. participant "API Consumer" as Consumer participant "API Producer" as Producer Consumer <<- Producer: POST {notificationDestination}(DeploymentStatusChangeNotification) Consumer -->> Producer: 204 No Content The service operation is as follows: 1) The API Producer shall send an HTTP POST request to the API Consumer. The target URI {notificationDestination} may be provided by API Consumer during the ai/ml model deployment request, where the message content shall carry a DeploymentStatusChangeNotification which includes the updated AI/ML model deployment status. The API Consumer shall process the request received in the HTTP POST message and determine if the request sent by the API Producer is authorized or not. 2) The API Consumer shall return the HTTP POST response. On success, “204 No Content” shall be returned. The message content shall be empty. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned, and the response message content may contain additional error information.

##### 10.4.4.2.2 Referenced procedures.
10.4.4.2.2.1 Notify AI/ML model deployment status change procedure The notify AI/ML model deployment status change operation illustrated in figure 10.4.4.2.1-1 is based on the AI/ML model deployment procedure defined in R1GAP [5].

### 10.4.5 Resources

#### 10.4.5.1 Overview
This clause defines the resource for the AI/ML model deployment API.

#### 10.4.5.2 Resource: "All AI/ML model deployment"

##### 10.4.5.2.1 Description
The resource represents all AI/ML model deployment in the Non-RT RIC. The methods defined in clause 10.4.5.2.3 shall be supported by this resource.

##### 10.4.5.3.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/ai-ml-model-deployment/<apiVersion> The resource URI variables supported by the resource is defined in table 10.4.5.2.2-1. Name Definition apiRoot See clause 5.2 apiVersion See clause 10.4.2

##### 10.4.5.2.3 Resource Standard Methods
10.4.5.2.3.1 POST This method shall support the request data structures specified in the table 10.4.5.2.3.1-1 and the response data structures and response codes specified in table 10.4.5.2.3.1-2. Data type P Cardinality Description ModelDeploymentInformati M 1 Information related to the deployment of the AI/ML model on Data type P Cardinality Response Description codes ModelDeploymentInformati 1 M 201 Created The operation was successful. on The message content of the POST response carries ModelDeploymentInformation. ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx Detailed problem description

##### 10.4.5.2.4 Resource Custom Methods
None.

### 10.4.6 Custom operation without associated resources.
None.

### 10.4.7 Notifications

#### 10.4.7.1 Notify AI/ML model deployment status change

##### 10.4.7.1.1 Overview
The notification informs the receiver about the AI/ML model deployment status.

##### 10.4.7.1.2 Resource Definition
The Resource URI {notificationDestination} is a callback URI provided when requesting deployment of an AI/ML model.

##### 10.4.7.1.3 Resource Standard Methods
10.4.7.1.3.1 POST This method shall support the request data structures specified in table 10.4.7.1.3.1-1 and the response data structure and response codes specified in table 10.4.7.1.3.1-2. Data type P Cardinality Description DeploymentStatusChangeNotification M 1 Notify a status changes of an AI/ML model deployment status. Data type P Cardinality Response codes Description N/A 204 No Content Confirmation of received notification ProblemDetails O 0..1 4xx/5xx The operation was unsuccessful. Detailed problem description may be carried in the response message content

### 10.4.8 Data Model

#### 10.4.8.1 Structured data types

##### 10.4.8.1.1 Overview
The following clauses define the structured data types and their attributes to be used by the AI/ML model deployment API.

##### 10.4.8.1.2 Data type: ModelDeploymentInformation
The ModelDeploymentInformation data type represents deployment information for an AI/ML model. It contains the attributes defined in table 10.4.8.1.2-1. Attribute Name Data type P Cardinality Description modelId ModelId M 1 Identifier of a model. See clause 10.1.8.1.3 notificationDestination Uri O 0..1 Callback URI where the notification would be delivered to, once the deployment status changes.

## 10.5 Void


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG2.TS.R1GAP-R004-v12.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG2.TS.R1GAP-R004-v12.00 Technical Specification"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms apply: AI/ML model: An algorithm that applies AI/ML techniques to produce model output data based on model input data. AI/ML model training: A process to train an AI/ML model by learning the input/output relationship in a data driven manner and obtain a trained AI/ML model that can be used for inference. Data job: An entity that provides data related to a DME type. Data instance: The set of data which resulted from a data job. DME type: Data type managed and exposed by the DME services and identified by a DME type identifier. Non-RT RIC: O-RAN non-real-time RAN Intelligent Controller: a logical function in the SMO framework that enables non-real-time control and optimization of RAN elements and resources, AI/ML workflow including model training and updates, and policy-based guidance of applications/features in Near-RT RIC. The Non-RT RIC is comprised of the Non- RT RIC framework and Non-RT RIC applications (rApps). Non-RT RIC framework: Functionality internal to the SMO framework that logically terminates the A1 interface and provides the R1 services to rApps through the R1 interface. rApp: Non-RT RIC application: an application designed to consume and/or produce R1 Services.
> NOTE: rApps can leverage the functionality provided by the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework to deliver value
added services related to intelligent RAN optimization and operation. R1: A service based interface between rApps and R1 termination in the Non-RT RIC framework via which R1 Services can be produced and consumed. R1 Services: A collection of services including, but not limited to, service registration and discovery services, authentication and authorization services, AI/ML workflow services, RAN OAM-related services as well as A1and O2 related services. rApp instance: An individual occurrence of a Non-RT RIC application running in the Non-RT RIC runtime environment. rApp instance identifier: A unique identifier for each rApp instance, assigned by the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework during rApp registration.

## 3.2 Symbols
Void

## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply. AI Artificial Intelligence EI Enrichment Information FQDN Fully Qualified Domain Name FM Fault Management ML Machine Learning PM Performance Management RAN Radio Access Network RBAC Role Based Access Control RIC RAN Intelligent Controller RT Real-time rAppId rApp Instance Identifier SMO Service Management and Orchestration TBAC Target Based Access Control

# 4 General Aspects of R1 Interface and R1 Services

## 4.1 Introduction
The following clauses cover the general aspects for R1 interface.

## 4.2 General principles
The general principles for the specification of the R1 interface are as follows:
- The R1 interface is an open logical interface within the O-RAN architecture between the rApps and the Non-
RT RIC framework.
- The R1 interface supports the exchange of control signalling information and the collection and delivery of
data between endpoints.
- The R1 interface enables multi-vendor rApps to consume or produce the R1 services and is independent of
specific implementations of the SMO and Non-RT RIC framework.
- The R1 interface is defined in an extensible way that enables new services and data types to be added without
needing to change the protocols or the procedures.

## 4.3 Specification objectives
The R1 interface specifications shall:
- Facilitate inter-connection between rApps and Non-RT RIC framework supplied by different vendors.
- Provide a level of abstraction between rApps and SMO/Non-RT RIC framework that can be the consumers
and or producers of R1 services.

## 4.4 Capabilities
As described in UCR [2], the R1 interface shall support:
- Registration and Deregistration of R1 services,
- Authentication of rApps,
- Authorization of requests to access R1 services,
- Facilitation of service discovery and service notifications for the registered R1 Services,
- Registration and Deregistration of DME types,
- Subscription and Unsubscription for registered DME types and collection and delivery of data for subscribed
DME types,
- Functionalities related to A1 and O2 interfaces, RAN OAM and AI/ML workflow.

# 5 R1 Services

## 5.1 Service management and exposure services

### 5.1.1 General
As described in the Non-RT RIC Architecture specification [3], the Service management and exposure services provided by the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework enable:
- Registration of services,
- Discovery of services,
- Authentication and authorization,
- Communication support,
- Bootstrap (optional),
Additionally, if the Bootstrap service is provided by the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework, an rApp can use it to discover the endpoints of the Service management and exposure services. The Service management and exposure services handle R1 services that are produced and/or consumed by rApps, as well as R1 services that are produced by functions in the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework and consumed by rApps. Additionally, the information related to the registered services is stored and the status of the service registrations is kept updated. The Service management and exposure services also handle the authorization of Service Consumers. When an R1 service is registered, it is available for discovery and invocation, by authorized Service Consumers. In the following, the term "Service Producer" refers to the role of an rApp to register and produce a service, and the term "Service Consumer" refers to the role of an rApp to discover and consume a service, using the Service management and exposure service. The term "Service management and exposure services Producer" refers to the logical R1 Service management and exposure functions in the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework acting as Service Producers of one or more of the Service management and exposure services.
> NOTE: An rApp can discover services produced by other functions than rApps via the R1 interface, while
services registered by rApps cannot be discovered by other functions than rApps via the R1 interface. The R1 interface only specifies how rApp interacts using the Service management and exposure services in the roles of Service Producer and Service Consumer.

### 5.1.2 Bootstrap service

#### 5.1.2.1 Overview
If the Bootstrap service is provided by the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework, an rApp can use it to discover the endpoints of the Service management and exposure services.

#### 5.1.2.2 Bootstrap
The endpoint on which the Bootstrap service can be reached shall be version independent. It can be provisioned to the rApp or can be obtained e.g. from a fixed well-known address or FQDN. The following procedure is defined: Discover bootstrap: This procedure enables determination of the endpoints of the other Service management and exposure services.

### 5.1.3 Service registration service

#### 5.1.3.1 Overview
This service allows Service Producers to register information about the R1 services they produce.

#### 5.1.3.2 Registration of services
Register service is a procedure where a Service Producer declares its produced services to the Service management and exposure services Producer. Upon successful registration of a service, the information about the services is stored. Deregister service is a procedure where a Service Producer declares which services are no longer provided. The Service Producer can also update the registered information related to a service. When registering a service, the Service Producer provides the information about the service, and may provide information on, but not limited to, the following:
- profile of the service,
- information on how to access the service,
- information on the API,
- limitations/capabilities of the Service Producer.
The following procedures are defined: Register service: A Service Producer uses this procedure to register an R1 service that it produces with the capabilities that are being exposed. On receiving the request, the Service management and exposure services Producer determines whether the Service Producer is authorized to produce the service, and whether there are any conflicts. In the response, the Service management and exposure services Producer informs the Service Producer on the capabilities that they are allowed to expose. Deregister service: A Service Producer can use this procedure to deregister an R1 service that it is registered to provide. Update service registration: A Service Producer can use this procedure to update the registration of an R1 service that it provides. Partially update service registration: A Service Producer can use this procedure to Partially update the registration of an R1 service that it provides. Query registered services: A Service Producer can use this procedure to retrieve information about the registered services.

### 5.1.4 Service discovery service

#### 5.1.4.1 Overview
This service allows Service Consumers to discover R1 services they intend to consume.

#### 5.1.4.2 Discovery of services
For service discovery, a set of procedures enables a Service Consumer to retrieve information on available services based on selection criteria.
> NOTE: Available services either have been registered by service-producing rApps using the Service registration
service (in case these are produced by rApps) or have been made known to the Service discovery service Producer by other means (in case they are produced by Service Producers inside the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework). Upon receiving the request to discover services, the Service management and exposure services Producer verifies the identity of the Service Consumer (see clause 5.1.6). The Service management and exposure services Producer retrieves the stored service information, applies the authorization policy, and performs filtering of service information based on the selection criteria provided in the request. The following procedures are defined: Discover services: A Service Consumer uses this procedure to discover registered services. The Service Consumer can provide selection criteria to inquire about the registered services. The response contains a filtered list of available services based on which services the consumer is authorized to access. Subscribe service availability: A Service Consumer can subscribe to notifications regarding changes in service(s) that are available and thereby receive a notification when a service has been registered, updated, or deregistered by a Service Producer. The subscription is created for the Service Consumer based on the services and capabilities that it is authorized to access, i.e., the Service Consumer only gets notified about changes in registration status of services that it is authorized to access. Upon subscription, the Service Consumer can pass selection criteria in order to control the set of services about which it wishes to be notified. Update service availability subscription: A Service Consumer can update each of its own subscriptions for notifications regarding changes in the available services. Unsubscribe service availability: A Service Consumer can unsubscribe from notifications regarding changes in the available services. Notify service availability changes: The Service management and exposure services Producer can use this procedure to notify a subscribed Service Consumer about changes in the set of registered services that the Service Consumer is authorized to access.

### 5.1.5 Void

### 5.1.6 Authentication and authorization

#### 5.1.6.1 Overview
Authentication and authorization are realized as a combination of procedures and services that allow asserting the identity of Service Producers and Service Consumers and ensure that only authorized consumers can access the R1 services.

#### 5.1.6.2 Authentication
Authentication will be performed to authenticate the Service Consumers and Service Producers to allow them to provide or access R1 Services. Service Consumers and Service Producers can initiate secure communication for R1 services after the authentication information is validated. Authentication procedures shall comply to the requirements specified in SRS [9], clause 5.2.6.

#### 5.1.6.3 Authorization
Authorization procedures are used to grant Service Consumers access to registered R1 services and to allow Service Producers to produce R1 services. Authorization can be based on a mechanism to enforce authorization by policies, where exposed R1 services are further subject to authorization policies before granting access to registered services. Authorization policies refer to the attributes that are associated to the Service Consumer. For example, authorization policy can be RBAC or TBAC and the additional details are supplied in the policy attributes. Authorization procedures shall comply to the requirements specified in SRS [9], clause 5.2.6. The following procedures are defined: Access token request: A Service Consumer can use the Access token request procedure to request access to the services as specified in SPS [4], clause 4.7.3.2. A token is granted for subsequent use of the requested R1 services that require authorization as specified in SPS [4], clause 4.7.3.3. Revoke access: A Service Consumer with appropriate privileges (administrator) can use the Revoke access procedure to revoke the access to exposed R1 services.
> NOTE: The details of the Revoke access procedure are not defined in this version of the specification.

### 5.1.7 Void

## 5.2 Data management and exposure services

### 5.2.1 General
As described in the Non-RT RIC Architecture specification [3], the Data management and exposure services enable:
- Registration of DME types,
- Discovery of DME types,
- Request for data,
- Subscription to data,
- Collection of data from Data Producers and consumption of data by Data Consumers,
- Access to optional data processing in the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework.
The Data management and exposure services use DME types as descriptions of certain types of data that are available.

# A DME type is defined by a DME type identifier and the syntax of the DME type is given by an associated schema. A DME type is defined by one schema while a schema may be associated with one or multiple DME types.

# A Data Producer registers its production capabilities related to a DME type. The production capabilities information
includes DME type information and producer constraints. When one or more production capabilities related to a DME type have been registered, it is available for discovery, and request for / subscription to data, by authorized Data Consumers. A Data Consumer uses the discovered information about the DME type for requesting or subscribing to data instances. Further, the data instances for a DME type may be stored, or the actual data production may be triggered by the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework on the need for data collection, including based on a request for data by a Data Consumer or a data offer from a Data Producer. Data Consumer refers to an rApp that can consume data for a DME type and Data Producer refers to an rApp that can produce data for a DME type. Based on DME type information, to trigger data collection or data consumption, data instances can be requested or subscribed to. While a data request causes the delivery of a data instance as a one-time response, a data subscription potentially causes multiple data delivery actions. Data consumption refers to a Data Consumer requesting for or subscribing to a data instance. Data collection refers to the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework requesting for or subscribing to a data instance. When initiating a data request or data subscription, the data instance to obtain is defined by the DME type information and by additional characteristics as listed below.
> NOTE: DME type information can be made available to Data Consumers using the Discover DME types
procedure (see clause 5.2.3.2) or from configuration. DME type information can be made available by Data Producers to the Data management and exposure functions using the Register DME types procedure (see clause 5.2.2.2). This information that defines a data instance may contain, but is not limited to, the following parameters:
- DME type identifier,
- time interval for the data instance (start and end of the interval during which the data have been or will be
collected),
- granularity of collection (how often data are to be collected),
- periodicity of delivery (how often data are to be delivered),
- scope (i.e., filter on the data),
- target (i.e., filter on the managed objects that the data is associated with).
The collection of data from the Data Producers can for instance be started based on a trigger from a Data Consumer that requests/subscribes to specified data that needs to be generated and collected, at the discretion of functions in the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework or based on a data offer from a Data Producer. If an additional Data Consumer request for / subscribes to a data instance of a certain DME type and scope that is already being collected by the Data Management and Exposure functions, no additional data collection will be started with the Data Producer if the collected data meets the criteria of additional request. Once the data production is initiated, Data Consumer can query the status of production of data instances, or the Data Consumer can be notified if there are any changes in data production as part of subscribe data. Data management and exposure services include services that are produced by the Data management and exposure functions, as well as services to be produced by the Data Producers or Data Consumers and consumed by the Data management and exposure functions.
> NOTE: In the Non-RT RIC Architecture specification [3], it is described that the Data management and exposure
services can enable an rApp to discover and consume DME types produced by functions other than rApps, and that DME types produced by rApps can be consumed by functions other than rApps. The R1 interface only specifies how rApps interact with the Data management and exposure service in the roles of Data Producer and Data Consumer.

### 5.2.2 Data registration service

#### 5.2.2.1 Overview
Data Producers consume this service to register DME types. The Data management and exposure functions in the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework produce this service.

#### 5.2.2.2 Registration of DME types
Register DME type is a procedure where a Data Producer registers its production capabilities related to a DME type. Query DME type registration is a procedure where a Data Producer queries its production capabilities related to a DME type that it has previously registered. Update DME type registration is a procedure where a Data Producer updates its production capabilities related to a DME type that it has previously registered with the Data registration and discovery service Producer. Deregister DME type is a procedure where a Data Producer deregister its production capabilities related to a DME type. As part of the Register DME type procedure, the Data Producer provides the data type identifier and further information about its production capabilities related to the DME type, such as if it is stored e.g., in an object store or can be continuously produced and delivered and may provide information on, including but not limited to, the following:
- DME type information which includes:
- information on how to deliver the data, e.g., via push, pull or streaming,
- periodicity of the data, in case it is generated periodically,
- information on the data syntax (schema),
- the supported data delivery methods (i.e., push and pull) by the Data Producer,
- Producer constraints of the Data Producer to filter the data (e.g., to provide only certain types of events if
requested so by the Data Consumers),
- information whether the Data Producer supports data request or data subscription or both.
The following procedures are defined: Register DME type: A Data Producer uses this procedure to register its production capabilities related to a DME type. On receiving the request, the Data registration service Producer determines whether the Data Producer is authorized to produce the DME type. In the response, the Data registration service Producer informs the Data Producer if it is allowed to produce the DME type. Query DME type registration: A Data Producer uses this procedure to retrieve information about a its registration of production capabilities related to a DME type that it has previously registered. Update DME type registration: A Data Producer uses this procedure to update its registration of production capabilities related to a DME type that it has previously registered. Deregister DME type: A Data Producer can use this procedure to deregister its production capabilities related to a DME type that it has previously registered for which it is no longer able to produce data instances.

### 5.2.3 Data discovery service

#### 5.2.3.1 Overview
Data Consumers consume this service to discover available DME types. The Data management and exposure functions in the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework produce this service.

#### 5.2.3.2 Discovery of DME types
This set of procedures enables a Data Consumer to retrieve information on the registered DME types. Discovery of a DME type does not imply availability of data instances of that DME type. It is just an indication that Data Consumers can request or subscribe to data for that DME type. It can happen that the actual data production is only triggered by the request or subscription actions of the Data Consumers. The following procedures are defined: Discover DME types: A Data Consumer can discover the DME types that are available. For each DME type, a DME type identifier and additional metadata are provided. Query DME type information: A Data Consumer can retrieve information on a specific DME type identified by a DME type identifier. Such information enables the Data Consumer to formulate a request or subscription for data instances of that DME type. Subscribe DME types changes: A Data Consumer can subscribe to notifications regarding changes in the set of available DME types and thereby receive notifications when DME types have been registered or deregistered. The subscription is created for the Data Consumer based on the DME types that it is authorized to access, i.e., the Data Consumer can only subscribe to get notified about changes in availability status of DME types that it is authorized to access. Unsubscribe DME types changes: A Data Consumer can unsubscribe from notifications regarding changes in the set of available DME types. Notify DME types changes: The Data registration and discovery service Producer uses this procedure to notify a subscribed Data Consumer about changes in the set of available DME types.

### 5.2.4 Data request service

#### 5.2.4.1 Overview
For data consumption, Data Consumers consume this service to request data instances, and the Data management and exposure functions in the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework produce this service. For data collection, the Data management and exposure functions in the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework consume this service to request data instances, and Data Producers produce this service.

#### 5.2.4.2 Requesting data.
This set of procedures allows a Data request service Consumer to specify a data instance (for a registered DME type) to be delivered to it. The data instance is defined by information specified in clause 5.2.1 Data request is a one-time request and is performed via Request data procedure. A data request can be stopped using the Cancel data request procedure. Data request service Consumer can query the status of the production of the data. The following procedures are defined: Request data: The Service Consumer provides, to the Data request service Producer, information on the data it requests based on the DME type information. Cancel data request: The Service Consumer cancels a data request. Query data request status: The Service Consumer queries the status of production of the data.

### 5.2.5 Data subscription service

#### 5.2.5.1 Overview
For data consumption, Data Consumers consume this service to subscribe to data instances, and the Data management and exposure functions in the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework produce this service. For data collection, the Data management and exposure functions in the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework consume this service to subscribe to data instances, and Data Producers produce this service.

#### 5.2.5.2 Subscribing to data.
This set of procedures allows a Data subscription service Consumer to specify a data instance (for a registered DME type) to be delivered to it, and to choose the delivery service to use (e.g., push or pull). The data instance is defined by information specified in clause 5.2.1. Subscribe data is a procedure that initiates the delivery of a data instance in potentially multiple chunks of data. A data subscription can be stopped using the Unsubscribe data procedure. A data subscription can be updated using Update data subscription procedure and a data subscription can be queried using Query data subscription. The following procedures are defined: Subscribe data: The Service Consumer provides, to the Data subscription service Producer, information on the data it wants to subscribe to be based on the DME type information retrieved using the Discover DME types procedure. Notify data availability: The Service Consumer is provided information on the availability and retrieval scheme of the subscribed data instance. As a precondition, the Service Consumer must have used the Subscribe data procedure to create a subscription. Update data subscription: The Service Consumer updates a data subscription. Query data subscription: The Service Consumer queries a data subscription. Unsubscribe data: The Service Consumer cancels a data subscription. Query data subscription status: The Service Consumer uses this procedure to query the status of data subscription by providing the data job identifier. Notify change of data subscription status: The Service Consumer is provided information on the changes in the status of the data subscription. Data production is handled as part of data subscription and whenever there are changes in the data production it will be notified as part of the data subscription status change. The procedures for delivery of data instances are described in clause 5.2.6.

### 5.2.6 Data delivery services

#### 5.2.6.1 Overview
Data delivery is handled through a set of services as defined below which deliver data as requested using the Request data procedure (see clause 5.2.4.2) or the Subscribe data procedure (see clause 5.2.5.2) or indicated using the Create data offer procedure (see clause 5.2.6). Data delivery messages relate to a particular data request, data subscription or data offer. The data can be delivered in different ways, e.g.: from a REST endpoint, via a message bus or from an object store location. The means where and how the data can be retrieved can be made known to the recipient of the data by different means as part of the Request data, Subscribe data, Notify data availability, or Create data offer procedure.
> NOTE: Additional procedures for data delivery can be added in later releases.

#### 5.2.6.2 Pull data service.
The pull data service allows the Service Consumer to obtain data via a pull mechanism from the Service Producer. Retrieval of data can occur once or multiple times (polling). For data consumption, Data Consumers consume this service and the Data management and exposure functions in the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework produce this service. For data collection, the Data management and exposure functions in the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework consume this service and Data Producers produce this service. The following procedure is defined: Retrieve data: The Service Consumer retrieves, from the Service Producer, data instances about whose existence the Service Consumer has been informed as part of the Request data, Notify data availability, or Create data offer procedure, using a pull communication mechanism.

#### 5.2.6.3 Push data service
The push data service allows the Service Consumer to push data to the Service Producer, For data consumption, the Data management and exposure functions in the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework consume this service and Data Consumers produce this service. For data collection, Data Producers consume this service and the Data management and exposure functions in the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework produces this service. The following procedure is defined: Push data: The Service Consumer provides, to the Service Producer a data instance using a push communication mechanism as arranged as part of the Request data, Subscribe data, or Create data offer procedure.

#### 5.2.6.4 Point to multipoint data streaming service
This service allows each Data Producer to deliver data to multiple Data Consumers using a message bus. It can be used as a delivery mechanism for data subscription or data offer. For data subscription, the Data management and exposure functions in the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework inform the Data Producer which data stream to use to send data. Further, they inform the Data Consumer which data stream to use to fetch data. For data offer, the Data management and exposure functions in the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework inform the Data Producer which data stream to use to send data. The following procedures are defined: Send data to data stream: The Data Producer sends data to a stream that is distributed by the message bus. Fetch data from data stream: The Data Consumer fetches data from a stream that is distributed by the message bus.

### 5.2.7 Data offer service

#### 5.2.7.1 Overview
Data Producers consume this service to request producing data to the Data offer service Producer for immediate collection and storage. The Data management and exposure functions in the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework produce this service.

#### 5.2.7.2 Managing a data offer.
This service allows a Data Producer to declare to the Data offer service Producer that it intends to produce data instances for immediate collection and storage by the latter. Prior to creating a data offer, the Data Producer has registered the related DME type. The Data Producer provides information on the data that it intends to provide based on the DME type information it has provided during data registration (see clause 5.2.2.2) and specifies additional characteristics of the data instance it intends to provide, similar to the information passed in the data request or data subscription (see clause 5.2.4.2 and 5.2.5.2). The Data Producer can further indicate that it no longer intends to produce data for a data offer by deleting the offer. The Data offer service Producer can indicate to the Data Producer that it does no longer wishes to receive data related to the offer by sending a data offer termination notification to the Data Producer, subsequently stopping collecting data related to the offer and terminating the offer. The following procedures are defined: Create data offer: A Data Producer provides, to the Data offer service Producer, information on the data it intends to deliver based on the DME type information passed during the Register DME type procedure. In case the push data service is intended to be used for data delivery, the Data offer service Producer provides to the Service Consumer information regarding the endpoint on which to receive the pushed data. In case the pull data service is intended to be used for data delivery, the Data offer service Producer provides to the Service Consumer information regarding the endpoint on which to receive the data availability notifications. Terminate data offer: A Data Producer terminates a data offer it has created. Notify data offer termination: The Data offer service Producer provides, to the Data Producer, a notification that it intends to stop collecting data from the data offer and terminating the offer. Following the reception of such notification, the Data Producer shall not deliver further data related to the data offer. The procedures for the delivery of data instances are described in clause 5.2.6.

## 5.3 A1-related Services

### 5.3.1 General
As described in the Non-RT RIC Architecture specification [3], the A1-related services produced by the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework enable the following functionalities related to the management of A1 policies and A1 enrichment information:
- Creation, modification, deletion, and query of A1 policies,
- Discovery of supported A1 policy types,
- Querying the status of A1 policies,
- Subscribe to event notifications related to A1 policies,
- Registration and deregistration of EI types.

### 5.3.2 A1 policy management services

#### 5.3.2.1 Overview
The A1 Policy management service is an R1 service that enables an rApp (the consumer of that service) to
- discover available A1 policy types and subscribe to notifications on added or removed A1 policy types,
- query for details of A1 policy types and details of A1 policy and enforcement status,
- create, update, and delete an A1 policy,
- subscribe to A1 policy enforcement status changes.
The term "A1 policy management service Producer" refers to the A1-related functions in the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework acting as Service Producer of the A1 policy management service. The term "A1 policy management service Consumer" refers to an rApp acting as Service Consumer of the A1 policy management service.
> NOTE 1: Another name for this service that does not depend on southbound interface naming is not defined in the
present document.
> NOTE 2: The terms A1 policy type, A1 policy type identifier, A1 policy and A1 policy identifier refer to definitions
made for the A1-P service over the A1 interface, see A1AP [1], and are used unchanged in the procedures of the A1 policy management service over the R1 interface.

#### 5.3.2.2 A1 Policy management
The following procedures are defined: Query A1 policy type identifiers: An A1 policy management service Consumer can use this procedure to query for the available A1 policy types. The A1 policy management service Producer will respond with the list of identifiers for all the available A1 policy types. Subscribe to policy type availability changes: An A1 policy management service Consumer can use this procedure to subscribe to notifications on policy type availability changes, i.e., when an A1 policy type becomes available or when an A1 policy type becomes unavailable. Query A1 policy type: An A1 policy management service Consumer can use this procedure to query the details of an A1 policy type by providing the A1 policy type identifier. The A1 policy management service Producer will respond with information about the A1 policy type. Query A1 policy identifiers: An A1 policy management service Consumer can use this procedure to query for the A1 policies, or a subset of the A1 policies by providing query parameters such as A1 policy type identifier or Near- RT RIC identifier. The A1 policy management service Producer will return the list of A1 policy identifiers that matches with the query criteria. Query A1 policy: An A1 policy management service Consumer can use this procedure to query for the details of an A1 policy by providing the A1 policy identifier. The A1 policy management service Producer will respond with information about the A1 policy. Create A1 policy: An A1 policy management service Consumer can use this procedure to create an A1 policy by providing the below parameters:
- Information about the A1 policy,
- A1 policy type identifier,
- Near-RT RIC identifier.
On receiving the request, the A1 policy management service Producer determines whether the A1 policy type is supported by the Near-RT RIC, assigns an A1 policy identifier for the new A1 policy, and informs the A1 policy management service Consumer on the outcome of the A1 policy creation. Update A1 Policy: An A1 policy management service Consumer can use this procedure to update an A1 policy by providing the below parameters:
- information about the A1 policy,
- A1 policy identifier.
On receiving the request, the A1 policy management service Producer determines whether the A1 policy is available in the Near-RT RIC and informs the A1 policy management service Consumer on the outcome of the A1 policy update. Query A1 policy status: An A1 policy management service Consumer can use this procedure to query the enforcement status of a single A1 policy by providing the A1 policy identifier. The A1 policy management service Producer will respond with the enforcement status of the A1 policy. Subscribe A1 policy status: An A1 policy management service Consumer can use this procedure to subscribe to status changes of A1 policies by providing either a list of A1 policies or a list of Near-RT RIC identifiers or a list of policy type identifiers. i.e., when A1 policies status becomes enforced or not enforced. Query A1 policy status subscription: An A1 policy management service Consumer can use this procedure to query an A1 policy status subscription. Update A1 policy status subscription: An A1 policy management service Consumer can use this procedure to update an A1 policy status subscription. Unsubscribe A1 policy status: An A1 policy management service Consumer can use this procedure to unsubscribe from status changes of A1 policies. Notify A1 policy status changes: An A1 policy management service Consumer is provided information on the status change of an A1 policy (i.e., when status changes from enforced or not enforced). Delete A1 policy: An A1 policy management service Consumer can use this procedure to delete an existing A1 policy. The A1 policy management service Producer will respond with the outcome of the A1 policy deletion.
> NOTE: In the responses of the above procedures, the A1 policy management service Producer can either use
stored information that has already been received via the A1 interface (e.g., information on available A1 policy types), or information directly resulting from an A1 procedure performed due to the R1 procedure (e.g., creation of an A1 policy).

### 5.3.3 A1 enrichment information related services

#### 5.3.3.1 Overview
A1 enrichment information related services enable rApp to register and deregister of EI types of which data it can produce as the source for the EI job results delivered over the A1 interface.

#### 5.3.3.2 A1 enrichment information
The following procedures are defined: Register EI type: An rApp uses this procedure to register an EI type that it can produce as the source for the EI job results delivered over the A1 interface to the A1 enrichment information functions. In the registration request, the rApp includes the EI source data type registered in the DME functions. On receiving the request, the A1 enrichment information functions can subscribe EI source data from DME functions using the EI source data type. In the response, the A1 enrichment information functions inform the rApp on the EI type capabilities that it is registered to provide. Deregister EI type: An rApp can use this procedure to deregister EI types that it has previously registered, but that it is no longer able to produce.

### 5.3.4 A1 ML model management services

#### 5.3.4.1 Overview
The availability of AI/ML model training capabilities over A1 is indicated in the AI/ML model training capability registration as specified in Clause 5.6.6 .

## 5.4 RAN OAM-related Services

### 5.4.1 General
As described in the Non-RT RIC Architecture specification [3], the RAN OAM-related services produced by the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework provide access to OAM functionality that enables the Service Consumer:
- To obtain information about alarms.
- To change their acknowledgment status.
- To obtain performance information related to the network.
- To obtain the current configuration of the network.
- To provision changes of the configuration of the network.
- To obtain additional information related to the network.

### 5.4.2 Network Information service

#### 5.4.2.1 Overview
The Network Information service provides to the Service Consumer information related to the network, in particular the RAN, that has been aggregated from multiple information sources that the SMO has access to, e.g., configuration, topology, network element state, geolocation, inventory, etc.

#### 5.4.2.2 Queries related to information about cells.
The Network Information service supports various information queries that give the rApps access to information aggregated from multiple sources. The following procedure is defined: Query cells-related information: This service operation allows to query aggregated information related to RAN cells.
> NOTE: How to query the information, and how this relates to the Data management and exposure services, is not
defined in the present document.

### 5.4.3 Fault management (FM) service

#### 5.4.3.1 Overview
The Fault management service allows the Service Consumer to obtain information about alarms. The RAN OAM-related functions in the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework produce this service.

#### 5.4.3.2 Querying alarm information
The FM service shall allow the Service Consumer to query alarm information. The following procedure is defined: Query alarms: This procedure allows the Service Consumer to query the alarm list to obtain the whole list, a subset of the alarms in the list, or an individual alarm. The Service Consumer may specify a set of filtering criteria to control what is returned as result.

#### 5.4.3.3 Changing the alarm acknowledgement state.
The FM service shall allow the Service Consumer to change the acknowledgement state of individual alarms (i.e., to acknowledge or unacknowledge them). The following procedure is defined: Change alarm acknowledgement state: This procedure allows the Service Consumer to change the acknowledgement state of an alarm (i.e., to acknowledge or unacknowledge it).

### 5.4.4 Performance management (PM) service

#### 5.4.4.1 Overview
The performance management service allows the Service Consumer to access performance information that was collected from the network elements by the Service Producer. The RAN OAM-related functions in the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework produce this service.

#### 5.4.4.2 Querying performance information
The PM service shall allow to query performance information using a set of filtering criteria. The following procedure is defined: Query performance information: This procedure allows to query performance information that has been collected from the network elements. The Service Consumer specifies a set of filtering criteria to determine the set of information returned.
> NOTE: How to query the information, and how this relates to the Data management and exposure services, is not
defined in the present document.

### 5.4.5 Configuration management (CM) service

#### 5.4.5.1 Overview
In the following, the term "Service Consumer" refers to the role of an rApp that consumes the Configuration management (CM) service. The term "Configuration management service Producer" refers to the role of the logical RAN OAM-related functions in the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework producing the CM service. The CM service allows the Service Consumer to access configuration information pertaining to the managed entities, as obtained by the CM service Producer. The CM service further allows the Service Consumer to request configuration changes related to the managed entities.
> NOTE: As a preliminary definition in the context of R1, the term "managed entities" represents (i) the RAN nodes
and RAN functions managed by the SMO via O1 or M-plane interfaces, and (ii) the group of these known as RAN-specific network slice subnets. The exact definition of the term "managed entity" is not defined in the present document. The following capabilities are provided by the CM service Producer over the R1 interface:
- Retrieving configuration schemas
- Reading configuration data
- Writing configuration changes

#### 5.4.5.2 Retrieving configuration schemas.
The CM service allows the Service Consumer to retrieve information pertaining to the configuration schemas of one or more managed entities. The following procedure is defined: Get schemas: A Service Consumer can use this procedure to retrieve configuration schemas for the managed entities. The CM service Producer will respond with the requested schemas. The schemas provide information about which configuration attributes are supported by the managed entities.

#### 5.4.5.3 Reading configuration data
The CM service allows the Service Consumer to read the configuration data, related to one or more managed entities. The following procedure is defined: Read Configuration: This procedure enables the Service Consumer to obtain configuration data (including the configuration attributes) related to one or more managed entities from the CM service Producer, subject to optional filtering criteria. The CM service Producer responds to the Service Consumer by providing the requested configuration data or indicates a failure with an appropriate cause.

#### 5.4.5.4 Writing configuration changes
The CM service allows the Service Consumer to write configuration changes, related to one or more managed entities. The following procedure is defined: Write Configuration: This procedure enables the Service Consumer to request the CM service Producer for writing configuration changes related to one or more managed entities. The CM service Producer responds to the Service Consumer with the status of the write operation for the configuration changes requested by the Service Consumer or indicates a failure with an appropriate cause.

## 5.5 O2-related Services

### 5.5.1 General
As described in the Non-RT RIC Architecture specification [3], the O2-related services produced by the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework provide access to O-Cloud management functionality that enables the Service Consumer:
- To obtain information related to O-Cloud infrastructure management such as,
- Infrastructure Inventory,
- Infrastructure Monitoring,
- Infrastructure Provisioning,
- Infrastructure Lifecycle Management,
- Infrastructure Software Management.
- To obtain information related to O-Cloud deployment management such as,
- Deployment Inventory,
- Deployment Monitoring,
- Deployment Lifecycle Management,
- To provision changes of the configuration of the O-Cloud,
- To obtain additional information related to the O-Cloud.
> NOTE: Details about O-Cloud deployment management services, provision of configuration changes, additional
information related to the O-Cloud is not defined in the present document.

### 5.5.2 O2 Infrastructure management service

#### 5.5.2.1 Overview
O2 Infrastructure management service allows the Service Consumer to obtain information related to O-Cloud infrastructure management services. O2 related functions in the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework produce this service as specified in O2IMS [6].

#### 5.5.2.2 Query O2-IMS Information
O2 Infrastructure management service shall support various information queries that give the rApps access to information related O-Cloud infrastructure management services. The following procedures are defined: Query O2ims_Infrastructure Inventory related information: This service procedure allows to query information related to infrastructure resource inventory and event notification service of O-Cloud. Query O2ims_InfrastructureMonitoring related information: This service procedure allows to query information related to telemetry reporting. Query O2ims_InfrastructureProvisioning information: This service procedure allows to query information related to O-Cloud provisioning services. Query O2ims_InfrastructureLifecycleManagement information: This service procedure allows to query information related to support of procedures for the automation of O-Clouds lifecycle events.

### 5.5.3 O2 Deployment management service

#### 5.5.3.1 Overview
O2 deployment management service allows the Service Consumer to obtain information related to O-Cloud deployment management services. O2 related functions in the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework produce this service as specified in O2DMS [7] and O2GAP [8].

#### 5.5.3.2 Query O2-DMS Information
O2 deployment management service shall support various information queries that give the rApps access to information related O-Cloud deployment management services. The following procedures is defined: Query O2dms_ Deployment Monitoring related information: This service procedure allows to query information related to telemetry reporting.

## 5.6 AI/ML Workflow Services

### 5.6.1 General
As described in the Non-RT RIC Architecture specification [3], the AI/ML workflow services enable:
- Training of an AI/ML model
- Registration of an AI/ML model,
- Discovery of an AI/ML model,
- Subscription to change of an AI/ML model,
- Registration of capability to train an AI/ML model (optional),
- Query of AI/ML model training capability (optional),
- Storage of an AI/ML model,
- Monitoring the performance of a deployed AI/ML model,
- Retrieving the model location details of an AI/ML model.
- Requesting the deployment of an AI/ML model.
- Querying AI/ML model inference capabilities.
- Requesting inference of an AI/ML model.
The AI/ML workflow services include AI/ML model management and exposure services, which are produced by the AI/ML workflow functions. An AI/ML model is identified by a model identifier, which includes model name, model version and artifact version. Model identifier and model-related information can be registered, discovered and de- registered. The model identifier can be used by an rApp in the AI/ML workflow procedures. The cloud native application developer assigns the model name and the model version as part of an rApp package for model onboarding, see clause 6 in OAM architecture [10]. The model name and model version are not changed after onboarding or after rApp deployment with the AI/ML model, or after training by an AI/ML model training service Producer. If the AI/ML model needs to be upgraded, the cloud native application developer updates the model version, and the upgraded model is onboarded as part of a new rApp package. The onboarded AI/ML model comes pre-trained, or is specialized during onboarding, and this is reflected in the initial value of the artifact version of the AI/ML model. After the registered AI/ML model has been trained by an AI/ML model training service Producer, the artifact version is updated. AI/ML model Producer refers to an rApp that can register an AI/ML model and provides model-related information. When an AI/ML Model has been registered, it can be trained by authorized AI/ML Model Trainers and is available for discovery and deployment, by authorized AI/ML Model Consumers.
> NOTE: The AI/ML model Producer acting in the run-time process is related to the rApp provided for onboarding,
with an AI/ML model in the rApp package, by the cloud native application developer acting in the design-time process. AI/ML model Trainer refers to an rApp that can train an AI/ML model, store a new AI/ML model artifact version, and provides training-related information. model training can be initiated via the AI/ML Model training service. Model storage and deletion can be initiated via the AI/ML model storage service. AI/ML model Consumer refers to an rApp that can discover and request deployment or inference of AI/ML model artifact versions of an AI/ML model. AI/ML model discovery allows an AI/ML model Consumer to discover AI/ML model identifiers and AI/ML model metadata based on registered AI/ML models and provided selection criteria. AI/ML model change notifications allow AI/ML model Consumer to be notified about changes of the subscribed AI/ML models.
> NOTE: Deployment of an rApp with an AI/ML model, e.g., after AI/ML model discovery, is not specified in the
present document. AI/ML model performance monitoring allows authorized AI/ML model performance monitoring service consumers to monitor the performance of deployed AI/ML models and receive periodical, or event based performance related information. AI/ML inference service allows authorized AI/ML model Consumers to request the inference of an AI/ML model. AI/ML inference service Producer provides model performance information via the AI/ML model performance monitoring service.

### 5.6.2 AI/ML model registration service

#### 5.6.2.1 Overview
AI/ML model Producers consume this service to register, query, update and delete an AI/ML model registration. The AI/ML workflow functions in the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework produce this service.

#### 5.6.2.2 Registration of AI/ML model
This set of procedures enable AI/ML model Producer to register, and manage the registration of, an AI/ML model. As part of the Register AI/ML model procedure, the AI/ML model Producer provides the producer identifier, model identifier and model-related information. The following procedures are defined: Register AI/ML model: An AI/ML model Producer uses this procedure to register an AI/ML model. On receiving the request, the AI/ML model management and exposure service Producer determines whether the AI/ML model Producer is authorized to register the AI/ML model. In the response, the AI/ML model management and exposure service Producer informs the AI/ML model Producer of the AI/ML model registration details. Query AI/ML model registration: An AI/ML model Producer can use this procedure to retrieve information about model registrations it has previously made. Update AI/ML model registration: An AI/ML model Producer can use this procedure to update an AI/ML model registration it has previously made. Deregister AI/ML model: An AI/ML model Producer can use this procedure to deregister an AI/ML model it has previously registered.

### 5.6.3 AI/ML model storage service

#### 5.6.3.1 Overview
AI/ML model storage service Consumers consume this service to store and delete an AI/ML model or the location of the AI/ML model. The AI/ML workflow functions in the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework produce this service.

#### 5.6.3.2 Storage of AI/ML model
This set of procedures enable AI/ML model storage service Consumer to store and delete the AI/ML models and their locations. The following procedures are defined: Store AI/ML model: An AI/ML model storage service Consumer uses this procedure to store an AI/ML model. On receiving the request, the AI/ML model storage service Producer determines whether the AI/ML model storage service Consumer is authorized to store the AI/ML model. In the response, the AI/ML model storage service Producer informs the AI/ML model storage service Consumer if the AI/ML model is stored and about the location of the stored AI/ML model if stored. Store location of AI/ML model: An AI/ML model storage service Consumer uses this procedure to store the location of an AI/ML model. On receiving the request, the AI/ML model storage service Producer determines whether the AI/ML model storage service Consumer is authorized to store location of the AI/ML model. In the response, the AI/ML model storage service Producer informs the AI/ML model storage service Consumer if the location of the AI/ML model is stored. Delete AI/ML model: An AI/ML model storage service Consumer can use this procedure to delete an AI/ML model previously stored. On receiving the request, the AI/ML model storage service Producer determines whether the AI/ML model storage service Consumer is authorized to delete the AI/ML model. the AI/ML model storage service Producer informs the AI/ML model storage service Consumer that the AI/ML model is deleted. Delete location of AI/ML model: An AI/ML model storage service Consumer can use this procedure to delete the AI/ML model location previously stored. On receiving the request, the AI/ML model storage service Producer determines whether the AI/ML model storage service Consumer is authorized to delete the AI/ML model file location. In the response, the AI/ML model storage service Producer informs the AI/ML model storage service Consumer that the location of the AI/ML model is deleted.

### 5.6.4 AI/ML model discovery services

#### 5.6.4.1 Overview
AI/ML model Consumers consume this service to discover registered AI/ML Models and their related information. The AI/ML workflow functions in the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework produce this service.

#### 5.6.4.2 Discovery of AI/ML model
This procedure enables an AI/ML model Consumer to discover registered AI/ML models and to retrieve information on the registered AI/ML models. The following procedure is defined: Discover AI/ML model: An AI/ML model Consumer can discover the AI/ML models that are registered based on provided selection criteria. For each registered AI/ML model, model identifiers and model metadata are provided as a response. The AI/ML model Consumer can only discover AI/ML models that it is authorized to access.

### 5.6.5 AI/ML model change subscription service

#### 5.6.5.1 Overview
AI/ML model Consumers consume this service to subscribe to change notifications for registered AI/ML models and to receive notifications about AI/ML model changes. The AI/ML workflow functions in the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework produce this service.

#### 5.6.5.2 Subscribing to AI/ML model changes.
This set of procedures enable AI/ML model Consumer to subscribe to change notifications for registered AI/ML models. The following procedures are defined: Subscribe AI/ML models changes: An AI/ML model Consumer can use this procedure to subscribe to notifications regarding changes related to registered AI/ML models and thereby receive notifications when AI/ML models have been registered or deregistered, when information has been updated, and when new model versions and/or artifact versions have been stored or deleted. The subscription is created for the Model Consumer based on the AI/ML models that it is authorized to access, i.e., the AI/ML model Consumer can only subscribe to get notified about model changes of AI/ML models that it is authorized to access. Unsubscribe AI/ML models changes: An AI/ML model Consumer can unsubscribe from notifications regarding changes related to registered AI/ML models. Notify AI/ML models changes: The AI/ML model management and exposure service Producer uses this procedure to notify a subscribed AI/ML model Consumer about changes related to registered AI/ML models.

### 5.6.6 AI/ML model training capability registration service

#### 5.6.6.1 Overview
AI/ML model Trainers consume this service to register, query, update and deregister its AI/ML model training capability. The AI/ML workflow functions in the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework produce this service. AI/ML model training service Producer consumes this service to register its AI/ML model training capability. Register AI/ML model training capability is a procedure where an AI/ML model Trainer registers its capability to train AI/ML models to the AI/ML model management and exposure service Producer. Deregister AI/ML model training capability is a procedure where an AI/ML model Trainer declares the training capability is no longer available.

#### 5.6.6.2 Registration of AI/ML training capability
This set of procedures enable AI/ML model Trainer to register, and manage the registration of, its training capabilities. As part of the Register AI/ML model training capability procedure, the AI/ML model Trainer provides the rApp identifier and further information about the training capability, it may provide information on, including but not limited to, the following:
- Information on the training platform that can be provided, e.g., framework and library,
- Information on available training resources.
The following procedures are defined: Register AI/ML model training capability: An AI/ML model Trainer uses this procedure to register the capability to train AI/ML models. On receiving the request, the AI/ML model management and exposure service Producer determines whether the AI/ML model Trainer is authorized to register the AI/ML model training capability. In the response, the AI/ML model management and exposure service Producer informs the AI/ML model Trainer if the AI/ML model training capability is registered. Query AI/ML model training capability: An AI/ML model Trainer uses this procedure to query an AI/ML model training capability registration it has previously made. Update AI/ML model training capability: An AI/ML model Trainer uses this procedure to update an AI/ML model training capability registration it has previously made. Deregister AI/ML model training capability: An AI/ML model Trainer can use this procedure to deregister an AI/ML model training capability that it has previously registered.

### 5.6.7 AI/ML Model deployment request service
This procedure enables an AI/ML model deployment Service Consumer to request the deployment of a registered AI/ML model. The AI/ML workflow functions in the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework produce this service. The following procedure is defined: Request AI/ML model deployment: An AI/ML model deployment Service Consumer requests the deployment of a registered AI/ML model. The model identifier and target deployment location of the registered AI/ML model is provided in the request. The AI/ML model deployment Service Consumer can only request the deployment of registered AI/ML models that it is authorized to access. The AI/ML model deployment Service Consumer is notified of the outcome of the model deployment request.

### 5.6.8 AI/ML model training services

#### 5.6.8.1 Overview
AI/ML model training service Consumers consume this service to request AI/ML model training, query AI/ML model training job status, cancel AI/ML model training, and receive notification about AI/ML model training job status change. AI/ML model Trainers or the AI/ML workflow functions in the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework produce this service.

#### 5.6.8.2 AI/ML model training
This set of procedures enable AI/ML model training service Consumer to request and manage the AI/ML model training of an AI/ML model. The following procedures are defined: Request AI/ML model training: An AI/ML model training service Consumer uses this procedure to request training of an AI/ML model by providing the information for training. The AI/ML training service Producer determines whether the AI/ML model training Consumer is authorized to request training of the AI/ML model. The AI/ML training service Producer creates the AI/ML model training job and responds to the AI/ML model training service Consumer with the training job identifier. Query AI/ML model training job status: An AI/ML model training service Consumer uses this procedure to query AI/ML model training job status by providing the training job identifier that it has previously received. Cancel AI/ML model training: An AI/ML model training service Consumer uses this procedure to request to cancel the training of an AI/ML model by providing the training job identifier that it has previously received. Notify AI/ML model training job status change: An AI/ML training service Producer uses this procedure to notify an AI/ML model training service Consumer about a status change of an AI/ML model training job.

### 5.6.9 AI/ML model performance monitoring service

#### 5.6.9.1 Overview
The AI/ML model performance monitoring service is produced by the AI/ML model Consumer rApp. Authorized AI/ML model performance Consumers consume this service to subscribe to, and receive, performance information related to a deployed AI/ML model. During AI/ML model registration, supported AI/ML model performance related information is provided as part of the registration information.

#### 5.6.9.2 Monitoring the performance of a deployed AI/ML model.
This set of procedures enables the AI/ML model performance monitoring service Consumers to subscribe to, and receive, regular performance information related to a deployed AI/ML model. As part of the Subscribe AI/ML model performance procedure, the AI/ML model performance monitoring service Consumers provide the AI/ML model identifier, information for the AI/ML model performance monitoring, and optionally a notification URI to receive regular performance related information of the specified deployed AI/ML model. The following procedures are defined: Subscribe AI/ML model performance: AI/ML model performance monitoring service Consumers can use this procedure to subscribe to specific or all performance related information of a deployed AI/ML model. Supported AI/ML model performance related information is provided as part of the AI/ML model registration information. In the request, AI/ML model performance monitoring service Consumers can specify whether to be periodically notified or only notified in the occurrence of a specific event (e.g., if the performance of a deployed AI/ML model drops below a certain threshold). On receiving the subscription request, the AI/ML model performance monitoring service Producer creates the subscription and informs the AI/ML model performance monitoring service Consumer of the subscription ID. Unsubscribe AI/ML model performance: An AI/ML model performance monitoring service Consumer can unsubscribe from specific or all AI/ML model performance related information of a deployed AI/ML model. Notify AI/ML model performance: An AI/ML model performance monitoring service Producer can use this procedure to notify the AI/ML model performance monitoring service Consumers about performance information related to a deployed AI/ML model.

### 5.6.10 AI/ML model inference service

#### 5.6.10.1 Overview
AI/ML model Consumer consumes this service to query the inference capabilities and initiate the inference of an AI/ML model. The AI/ML model Producer or the AI/ML workflow functions in the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework produce this service.

#### 5.6.10.2 Inference of AI/ML model
The below set of procedures enable AI/ML model Consumer to query inference capabilities and request inference of an AI/ML model. The following procedures are defined: Query AI/ML model inference capabilities: An AI/ML model Consumer uses this procedure to retrieve the inference capability information such as model identifier, input data and output data. On receiving the request, the AI/ML inference service Producer determines whether the AI/ML model Consumer is authorized to retrieve the inference capability information. In the response, the AI/ML inference service Producer informs the AI/ML model Consumer regarding the AI/ML model inference capability information. Request AI/ML model inference: An AI/ML model Consumer uses this procedure to request inference for an AI/ML model by providing the model identifier and input data. On receiving the request, the AI/ML inference service Producer determines whether the AI/ML model Consumer is authorized to request the inference of the AI/ML model. In the response, the AI/ML inference service Producer informs the AI/ML model Consumer of the model inference job identifier. Cancel AI/ML model inference: An AI/ML model Consumer uses this procedure to request to cancel the inference by providing the inference job identifier that it has previously received.

### 5.6.11 AI/ML model training capability query services

#### 5.6.11.1 Overview
The AI/ML model training capability query service allows the Service Consumers to query all the available registered AI/ML model training capability. The AI/ML workflow functions in the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework produce this service.

#### 5.6.11.2 Query of AI/ML model training capability
This procedure enables a Service Consumer to query registered AI/ML model training capability. The following procedure is defined: Query AI/ML model training capability: A Service Consumer uses this procedure to retrieve the registered AI/ML model training capability information based on provided selection criteria. The Service Consumer can only query the AI/ML model training capability information of the AI/ML models that it is authorized to access. In the response, the Service Producer informs the Service Consumer AI/ML model Trainer rAppIds and the registered AI/ML model training capability information. 5.7 rApp management Services

### 5.7.1 General
As described in the Non-RT RIC Architecture specification [3], clause 7.8, the rApp management services enable the following functionality:
- rApp registration
5.7.2 rApp registration service

#### 5.7.2.1 Overview
The rApp consumes this service to register with the rApp registration service Producer.

#### 5.7.2.2 Registration of rApps
The rApp consumes this service to register with the rApp registration service Producer and may provide information such as rApp name, vendor, software version, certificates, role of the rApp (Service Producer and / or Service Consumer), and security credentials. On successful registration, the rApp registration service Producer responds with an rApp instance identifier (rAppId).
> NOTE: The procedure for provisioning the security credentials by an rApp with the rApp registration service
Producer is not defined in the present document. The following procedures are defined: Registration: An rApp can use this procedure to register with the rApp registration service Producer. Update registration: An rApp can use this procedure to update its registration with the rApp registration service Producer. Deregistration: An rApp can use this procedure to deregister with the rApp registration service Producer .

# 6 R1 Interface Protocol Structure
"R1TP" [5] defines the R1 transport protocol stack. Annex (informative):Change history/Change request (history) Date Revision Description services. Heartbeat service to query of AI/Ml model training capabilities , procedure to retrieve the status of the data request and data subscription and updated the existing procedures for service registration and authorization service. model inference service, updated query procedure for subscription data and updated subscription procedures for SME. the terms Producer and Consumer. data types to DME types and added the data streaming service in DME service.


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG2.TS.R1TD-R004-v04.01.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG2.TS.R1TD-R004-v04.01"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms

For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in R1GAP [2], R1AP [1], and the following apply:

DME type: data type managed and exposed by the DME services and identified by a DME type identifier.

> NOTE: 	The present document defines O-RAN specific DME types and O-RAN re-uses 3GPP data types where applicable.

## 3.2 Symbols

Void

## 3.3 Abbreviations

For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:

- **RAT**: Radio Access Technology

# 4 R1 Application data model

## 4.1  Introduction

The present document together with R1AP[1] defines the realization of the R1 procedures defined in R1GAP [2] and R1UCR [3].

R1AP [1] contains the service description, service operations, resource definition and the API definition (including the Open API document) for the R1 services. The present document contains the data model and the definitions of the schema-based objects transported in the procedures defined for the R1 services.

The data types defined in the present document are API-independent and are lifecycle independently from the APIs defined in R1AP [1].

## 4.2  Version conventions for the present document

The version number of the present document follows the "xx.yy" versioning scheme. There could be implications for the compatibility between implementations that uses DME types defined in different versions of this specification.

An incremented "xx" version field of the present document could indicate that a new major feature (e.g., a new DME type) has been added, removed or that an incompatible change has been made to one or more DME types. An incremented "yy" version field could indicate that an optional feature has been added, a technical issue has been fixed, or that clarifications or editorial corrections have been made.

The compatibility of rApps and R1 service API implementations in SMO/Non-RT RIC framework depends on the R1 service APIs and data types that are implemented. The present document handles the versions for protocol-agnostic data types used by the R1 services while the R1 service API versioning aspects are handled in R1AP [1].

# 5 Data type definitions for Data Management and Exposure services

## 5.1  Common definitions

### 5.1.1 Introduction

This clause provides common definitions applicable to multiple DME types.

### 5.1.2 Identifiers and Metadata

#### 5.1.2.1 DME type identifier

A DME type is identified by an identifier defined as dmeTypeId in R1AP [1], clause B.4.2. The DME type identifier consists of a namespace, name and a version.

#### 5.1.2.2  Data category

A DME type shall be assigned to at least one data category. Assigned data category values can be used as query parameter when searching for available DME types as specified in R1AP [1] .

### 5.1.3 Versioning of DME types

When updating a DME type, the version in the DME type identifier (see clause 5.1.2.1) is updated according to SemVer [4] to reflect its compatibility with other DME types that have the same namespace and name.

Two DME types with the same namespace and name are incompatible if the major version digit in the version is different.

Two DME types are only considered to be identical if all three of their attribute’s namespace, name and version are identical.

The version in the DME type identifier includes a pre-release version (e.g., “-alpha.1”) if the definition of a DME type is under development.

### 5.1.4 Schemas for DME types

#### 5.1.4.1 General

The definition of a DME type is based on two schemas, a data production schema and a data delivery schema.

#### 5.1.4.2 Data production schema

The data production schema defines the structure for how to formulate parameters for the production of data instances of a DME type by a data job or a data offer. A data production schema can be based on data types defined in other specifications.

Table 5.1.4.2-1 defines the attributes of the data production schema.

| Attribute Name | Data Type Name | P | Cardinality | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| dataSelector | DataSelector | M | 1 | Selects the data to be included in the data instance to be produced. See NOTE1. |
| targetSelector | TargetSelector | M | 1 | This property selects the geographical area, or the entities, for which the data instance is to be produced. See NOTE1. |
| timing | Timing | M | 1 | This property defines the time-related parameters for the production of the data instances. See NOTE1. |
| NOTE 1:	Every DME type shall define these types as part of defining the data production schema. NOTE 2: 	Additional attributes may be included in a data production schema. |  |  |  |  |

#### 5.1.4.3 Data delivery schema

The data delivery schema defines the structure of the delivered content resulting from the related data job or data offer. A data delivery schema can be based on data types defined in other specifications The data delivery schema type is defined in R1AP [1].

A DME type can be defined with one or more data delivery schemas each based on different schema technologies such as for example JSON schema [6]  and XSD [7], [8], [9] and [i.1].

### 5.1.5 Common data type definitions

#### 5.1.5.1 Structured Data Types

##### 5.1.5.1.1 Data type: CollectionWindow

This data type allows selecting the window for data collection and contains the attributes defined in table: 5.1.5.1.1-1.

| Attribute Name | Data Type | P | Cardinality | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| startTime | TimeOfDay | M | 1 | This attribute specifies the start of the collection period. See clause 5.1.2.2. |
| stopTime | TimeOfDay | O | 0..1 | This attribute specifies the end of the collection period. If not provided, the time period is indefinite. See clause 5.1.2.2. |

#### 5.1.5.2 Simple data types

| Type Name | Type Definition | Description | Applicability |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| GranularityPeriod | integer | Granularity period simple data type is defined in 3GPP 32.401 [13], clause 5.4.1.4. |  |
| TimeOfDay | string | String with format as defined in IETF RFC 3339 [12], clause 5.6. |  |

#### 5.1.5.3 Enumerations

##### 5.1.5.3.1 Enumeration: DataCategory

| Enumeration Value | Description |
| --- | --- |
| PERFORMANCE_MANAGEMENT_DATA | Category for DME type definitions for performance management data. |

## 5.2 Definition of individual DME types

### 5.2.1 Introduction

This clause defines DME types.

A DME type can be registered and discovered using the DME services. Data instances of a DME type can be produced by means of a data job or data offer.

The definition of a DME type follows a template that includes but is not limited to:

### 5.2.2 DME type: RAN OAM PM data

#### 5.2.2.1 DME type identifier

The definition of the DME type identifier is provided in clause 5.1.2.2. The DME type for RAN OAM PM data is identified as:

DmeTypeId: ORAN:RanOamPmData:1.0.0.

#### 5.2.2.2 Data category

The definition of the data category is provided in clause 5.1.2.1. The DME type for RAN OAM PM data is categorized as:

DataCategory: PERFORMANCE_MANAGEMENT_DATA.

#### 5.2.2.3 Data type definitions

##### 5.2.2.3.1 Structured data types

This data type allows selecting the attributes of the data instance to be produced and contains the attributes defined in table: 5.2.2.3.1.1-1.

| Attribute Name | Data Type | P | Cardinality | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| managementData | ManagementData | M | 1 | The definition of the managementData attribute is aligned with the definition of the ManagementData class specified in 3GPP TS 28.622 [10], clause 4.3.50 with the restriction that metrics defined in 3GPP TS 32.422 [19] are not allowed.  The managementData attribute can be used to address performance measurements, KPIs defined by 3GPP and O-RAN, as well as vendor-specific performance measurements and KPIs. Example of O-RAN defined performance measurement for RAN OAM is defined in O1 Interface Specification for O-CU-UP and O-CU-CP [17] and O1 Interface Specification for O-DU [18]. |

This data type allows selecting the target for which data are to be produced and contains the following attributes defined in table 5.2.2.3.1.2-1:

| Attribute Name | Data Type | P | Cardinality | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| nodeFilter | NodeFilter | C | 0..1 | The NodeFilter type is defined in 3GPP TS 28.622 [10], clause 4.3.49. |
| objectInstances | DnList | C | 0..1 | See clause 5.2.2.3.1.4 |
| NOTE:      Presence condition “C” means one and only one of these attributes shall be present when this data type is used. |  |  |  |  |

This data type allows selecting the timing for production of the data instance and contains the attributes defined in table: 5.2.2.3.1.3-1.

| Attribute Name | Data Type | P | Cardinality | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| collectionWindow | CollectionWindow | M | 1 | see clause 5.2.1.3.1.4 |
| granularityPeriod | GranularityPeriod | M | 1 | see clause 5.1.4.2 |
| reportingPeriod | integer | C | 0..1 | Reporting period as defined in 3GPP TS 32.401 [13], clause 5.4.1.5. (See NOTE) |
| NOTE: 	For subscribe data procedure as defined in R1AP[1], clause 7.3.4.1.2.2, this attribute shall be present if the data is delivered in the form of files and shall be absent if the data is streamed.  For data request procedure as defined in R1AP [1], clause 7.3.4.1.2.1 this attribute shall be absent. |  |  |  |  |

This data type allows selecting list of DNs and contains the attributes defined in table: 5.2.2.3.1.4-1.

| Attribute Name | Data Type | P | Cardinality | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| DnList | array(Dn) | M | 1..N | The Dn data type is defined in 3GPP TS 32.300 [15], clause 7. Example of DN in a string representation is defined in 3GPP TS 32.300 [15], clause 8. |

##### 5.2.2.3.2  Simple data types

None.

##### 5.2.2.3.3 Enumerations

None.

#### 5.2.2.4 Schemas

##### 5.2.2.4.1 Data production schema

The data production schema is based on the JSON schema.

{

"$schema": "https://json-schema.org/draft/2020-12/schema",

"description": "dataJobSchema for data subscription/data request",

"version": "v1",

"type": "object",

"properties": {

"dataSelector": {

"managementData": {"$ref": "#/definitions/ManagementData"}

},

"targetSelector": {

"oneOf": [

{

"type": "object",

"properties": {

"nodeFilter": {

"$ref": "#/definitions/NodeFilter"

}

},

"additionalProperties": false

},

{

"type": "object",

"properties": {

"objectInstances": {

"$ref": "#/definitions/DnList"

}

},

"additionalProperties": false

}

]

},

"timing": {

"type": "object",

"properties": {

"collectionWindow": {

"type": "object",

"properties": {

"startTime": {

"$ref": "#/definitions/TimeOfDay"

},

"stopTime": {

"$ref": "#/definitions/TimeOfDay"

}

},

"additionalProperties": false,

"required": [

"startTime",

"stopTime"

]

},

"granularityPeriod": {

"$ref": "#/definitions/GranularityPeriod"

},

"reportingPeriod": {

"$ref": "#/definitions/ReportingPeriod"

}

},

"additionalProperties": false,

"required": [

"collectionWindow",

"granularityPeriod"

]

}

},

"required": [

"dataSelector",

"targetSelector"

],

"definitions": {

"ManagementData": {

"oneOf": [

{

"type": "object",

"properties": {

"mgtDataCategory": {

"type": "string"

}

},

"additionalProperties": false,

"required": [

"mgtDataCategory"

]

},

{

"type": "object",

"properties": {

"mgtDataName": {

"type": "array"

}

},

"additionalProperties": false,

"required": [

"mgtDataName"

]

}

]

},

"NodeFilter": {

"type": "array",

"properties": {

"areaOfInterest": {

"$ref": "#/definitions/AreaOfInterest"

},

"networkDomain": {

"$ref": "#/definitions/NetworkDomain"

},

"cPuPType": {

"$ref": "#/definitions/CPuPType"

},

"sst": {

"$ref": "#/definitions/Sst"

}

},

"additionalProperties": false

},

"DnList": {

"type": "array",

"minItems": 1,

"items": {

"$ref": "#/definitions/Dn"

}

},

"Dn": {

"type": "string"

},

"AreaOfInterest": {

"oneOf": [

{

"type": "object",

"properties": {

"geoAreaToCellMapping": {

"$ref": "#/definitions/GeoAreaToCellMapping"

}

},

"addtionalProperties": false,

"required": [

"geoAreaToCellMapping"

]

},

{

"type": "object",

"properties": {

"taiList": {

"type": "array",

"item": {

"$ref": "#/definitions/Tai"

},

"minItems": 1,

"maxItems": 8

}

},

"addtionalProperties": false,

"required": [

"taiList"

]

},

{

"type": "object",

"properties": {

"nrCellIdList": {

"type": "array",

"items": {

"$ref": "#/definitions/NrCellIdList"

},

"minItems": 1,

"maxItems": 32

}

},

"addtionalProperties": false,

"required": [

"nrCellIdList"

]

},

{

"type": "object",

"properties": {

"eutraCellIdList": {

"type": "array",

"items": {

"$ref": "#/definitions/E-UTRACGI"

},

"minItems": 1,

"maxItems": 32

}

},

"addtionalProperties": false,

"required": [

"eutraCellIdList"

]

}

]

},

"NetworkDomain": {

"type": "string",

"enum": [

"RAN",

"CN"

]

},

"CPuPType": {

"type": "string",

"enum": [

"CU",

"UP"

]

},

"Sst": {

"type": "integer"

},

"GranularityPeriod": {

"type": "integer"

},

"ReportingPeriod": {

"type": "integer"

},

"GeoAreaToCellMapping": {

"type": "object",

"properties": {

"convexGeoPolygon": {

"type": "array",

"items": {

"$ref": "#/definitions/GeoCoordinate"

},

"minItems": 3

},

"associationThreshold": {

"type": "integer"

}

},

"additionalProperties": false,

"required": [

"convexGeoPolygon"

]

},

"GeoCoordinate": {

"type": "object",

"properties": {

"latitude": {

"type": "number"

},

"longitude": {

"type": "number"

}

},

"addtionalProperties": false,

"required": [

"latitude",

"longitude"

]

},

"Tai": {

"type": "object",

"properties": {

"mcc": {

"type": "integer"

},

"mnc": {

"type": "integer"

},

"tac": {

"type": "integer"

}

},

"additionalProperties": false,

"required": [

"mcc",

"mnc",

"tac"

]

},

"NrCellIdList": {

"oneOf": [

{

"type": "object",

"properties": {

"nrCGI": {

"$ref": "#/definitions/NRCGI"

}

},

"additionalProperties": false,

"required": [

"nrCGI"

]

},

{

"type": "object",

"properties": {

"e-utraCGI": {

"$ref": "#/definitions/E-UTRACGI"

}

},

"additionalProperties": false,

"required": [

"e-utraCGI"

]

}

]

},

"NRCGI": {

"type": "object",

"properties": {

"plmnIdentity": {

"type": "string",

"format": "base64"

},

"nrCellIdentity": {

"type": "string",

"format": "base32"

}

},

"addtionalProperties": false,

"required": [

"plmnIdentity",

"nrCellIdentity"

]

},

"E-UTRACGI": {

"type": "object",

"properties": {

"plmnIdentity": {

"type": "string",

"format": "base64"

},

"e-utraCellIdentity": {

"type": "string",

"format": "base32"

}

},

"addtionalProperties": false,

"required": [

"plmnIdentity",

"e-utraCellIdentity"

]

},

"TimeOfDay": {

"type": "string",

"Description": "String with format as defined in clause 5.6 of IETF RFC 3339. Examples, 20:15:00, 20:15:00-08:00 (for 8 hours behind UTC)."

}

}

}

##### 5.2.2.4.2 Data delivery schemas

This data delivery schema is based on the XML schema and is defined in 3GPP TS 28.532 [11], clause 12.3.2.4.

### 5.2.3 DME type: RAN OAM Trace Metrics

#### 5.2.3.1 DME type identifier

The definition of the DME type identifier is provided in clause 5.1.2.2. The DME type for RAN OAM TraceMetrics is identified as:

DmeTypeId: ORAN:RanOamTraceMetrics:1.0.0.

#### 5.2.3.2 Data category

The definition of the data category is provided in clause 5.1.2.1. The DME type for RAN OAM TraceMetrics is categorized as:

DataCategory: RAN_OAM_TRACE_METRICS _DATA.

#### 5.2.3.3 Data type definitions

##### 5.2.3.3.1 Structured data types

This data type allows selecting the attributes of the data instance to be produced and contains the attributes defined in table: 5.2.3.3.1.1-1.

| Attribute Name | Data Type | P | Cardinality | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| supportedTraceMetrics | String | M | 1 | The list of trace metrics as specified in 3GPP TS 28.622 [10], clause 4.4.1. |

This data type allows selecting the target for which data are to be produced and contains the following attributes defined in table 5.2.3.3.1.2-1.

| Attribute Name | Data Type | P | Cardinality | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| nodeFilter | NodeFilter | C | 0..1 | The NodeFilter type is defined in 3GPP TS 28.622 [10], clause 4.3.49. |
| objectInstances | DnList | C | 0..1 | See clause 5.2. 3.3.1.4 |
| NOTE:      Presence condition “C” means one and only one of these attributes shall be present when this data type is used. |  |  |  |  |

This data type allows selecting the timing for production of the data instance and contains the attributes defined in table: 5.2.3.3.1.3-1.

| Attribute Name | Data Type | P | Cardinality | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| collectionWindow | CollectionWindow | M | 1 | see clause 5.2.1.3.1.4 |
| granularityPeriod | GranularityPeriod | M | 1 | see clause 5.1.4.2 |
| reportingPeriod | integer | C | 0..1 | Reporting period as defined in 3GPP TS 32.401 [13], clause 5.4.1.5. (See NOTE) |
| NOTE: 	For subscribe data procedure as defined in R1AP[1], clause 7.3.4.1.2.2, this attribute shall be present if the data is delivered in the form of files and shall be absent if the data is streamed.  For data request procedure as defined in R1AP [1], clause 7.3.4.1.2.1 this attribute shall be absent. |  |  |  |  |

This data type allows selecting list of DNs and contains the attributes defined in table: 5.2.3.3.1.4-1.

| Attribute Name | Data Type | P | Cardinality | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| DnList | array(Dn) | M | 1..N | The Dn data type is defined in 3GPP TS 32.300 [15], clause 7. Example of DN in a string representation is defined in 3GPP TS 32.300 [15], clause 8. |

##### 5.2.3.3.2  Simple data types

None.

##### 5.2.3.3.3 Enumerations

None.

#### 5.2.3.4 Schemas

##### 5.2.3.4.1 Data production schema

The data production schema is based on the JSON schema.

{

"$schema": "https://json-schema.org/draft/2020-12/schema",

"description": "dataJobSchema for data subscription/data request",

"version": "v1",

"type": "object",

"properties": {

"dataSelector": {

"supportedTraceMetrics": {

"$ref": "#/definitions/SupportedTraceMetrics"

}

},

"targetSelector": {

"oneOf": [

{

"type": "object",

"properties": {

"nodeFilter": {

"$ref": "#/definitions/NodeFilter"

}

},

"additionalProperties": false

},

{

"type": "object",

"properties": {

"objectInstances": {

"$ref": "#/definitions/DnList"

}

},

"additionalProperties": false

}

]

},

"timing": {

"type": "object",

"properties": {

"collectionWindow": {

"type": "object",

"properties": {

"startTime": {

"$ref": "#/definitions/TimeOfDay"

},

"stopTime": {

"$ref": "#/definitions/TimeOfDay"

}

},

"additionalProperties": false,

"required": [

"startTime",

"stopTime"

]

},

"granularityPeriod": {

"$ref": "#/definitions/GranularityPeriod"

},

"reportingPeriod": {

"$ref": "#/definitions/ReportingPeriod"

}

},

"additionalProperties": false,

"required": [

"collectionWindow",

"granularityPeriod"

]

}

},

"required": [

"dataSelector",

"targetSelector"

],

"definitions": {

"SupportedTraceMetrics": {

"type": "object",

"properties": {

"supportedTraceMetrics": {

"type": "array",

"items": {

"type": "string"

}

}

},

"required": [

"SupportedTraceMetrics"

],

"additionalProperties": false

},

"NodeFilter": {

"type": "array",

"properties": {

"areaOfInterest": {

"$ref": "#/definitions/AreaOfInterest"

},

"networkDomain": {

"$ref": "#/definitions/NetworkDomain"

},

"cPuPType": {

"$ref": "#/definitions/CPuPType"

},

"sst": {

"$ref": "#/definitions/Sst"

}

},

"additionalProperties": false

},

"DnList": {

"type": "array",

"minItems": 1,

"items": {

"$ref": "#/definitions/Dn"

}

},

"Dn": {

"type": "string"

},

"AreaOfInterest": {

"oneOf": [

{

"type": "object",

"properties": {

"geoAreaToCellMapping": {

"$ref": "#/definitions/GeoAreaToCellMapping"

}

},

"additionalProperties": false,

"required": [

"geoAreaToCellMapping"

]

},

{

"type": "object",

"properties": {

"taiList": {

"type": "array",

"item": {

"$ref": "#/definitions/Tai"

},

"minItems": 1,

"maxItems": 8

}

},

"additionalProperties": false,

"required": [

"taiList"

]

},

{

"type": "object",

"properties": {

"nrCellIdList": {

"type": "array",

"items": {

"$ref": "#/definitions/NrCellIdList"

},

"minItems": 1,

"maxItems": 32

}

},

"additionalProperties": false,

"required": [

"nrCellIdList"

]

},

{

"type": "object",

"properties": {

"eutraCellIdList": {

"type": "array",

"items": {

"$ref": "#/definitions/E-UTRACGI"

},

"minItems": 1,

"maxItems": 32

}

},

"additionalProperties": false,

"required": [

"eutraCellIdList"

]

}

]

},

"NetworkDomain": {

"type": "string",

"enum": [

"RAN",

"CN"

]

},

"CPuPType": {

"type": "string",

"enum": [

"CU",

"UP"

]

},

"Sst": {

"type": "integer"

},

"GranularityPeriod": {

"type": "integer"

},

"ReportingPeriod": {

"type": "integer"

},

"GeoAreaToCellMapping": {

"type": "object",

"properties": {

"convexGeoPolygon": {

"type": "array",

"items": {

"$ref": "#/definitions/GeoCoordinate"

},

"minItems": 3

},

"associationThreshold": {

"type": "integer"

}

},

"additionalProperties": false,

"required": [

"convexGeoPolygon"

]

},

"GeoCoordinate": {

"type": "object",

"properties": {

"latitude": {

"type": "number"

},

"longitude": {

"type": "number"

}

},

"additionalProperties": false,

"required": [

"latitude",

"longitude"

]

},

"Tai": {

"type": "object",

"properties": {

"mcc": {

"type": "integer"

},

"mnc": {

"type": "integer"

},

"tac": {

"type": "integer"

}

},

"additionalProperties": false,

"required": [

"mcc",

"mnc",

"tac"

]

},

"NrCellIdList": {

"oneOf": [

{

"type": "object",

"properties": {

"nrCGI": {

"$ref": "#/definitions/NRCGI"

}

},

"additionalProperties": false,

"required": [

"nrCGI"

]

},

{

"type": "object",

"properties": {

"e-utraCGI": {

"$ref": "#/definitions/E-UTRACGI"

}

},

"additionalProperties": false,

"required": [

"e-utraCGI"

]

}

]

},

"NRCGI": {

"type": "object",

"properties": {

"plmnIdentity": {

"type": "string",

"format": "base64"

},

"nrCellIdentity": {

"type": "string",

"format": "base32"

}

},

"additionalProperties": false,

"required": [

"plmnIdentity",

"nrCellIdentity"

]

},

"E-UTRACGI": {

"type": "object",

"properties": {

"plmnIdentity": {

"type": "string",

"format": "base64"

},

"e-utraCellIdentity": {

"type": "string",

"format": "base32"

}

},

"addtionalProperties": false,

"required": [

"plmnIdentity",

"e-utraCellIdentity"

]

},

"TimeOfDay": {

"type": "string",

"Description": "String with format as defined in clause 5.6 of IETF RFC 3339. Examples, 20:15:00, 20:15:00-08:00 (for 8 hours behind UTC)."

}

}

}

##### 5.2.3.4.2 Data delivery schemas

This data delivery schema for streaming trace is based on the Trace record schema and is defined in 3GPP TS 32.423 [20], clause 5.2.


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG2.TS.R1TP-R004-v04.03.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG2.TS.R1TP-R004-v04.03"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms

Void

## 3.2 Symbols

Void

## 3.3 Abbreviations

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in "O-RAN TS R1GAP"[11] and the following apply:

# Transport protocols for R1 Services

## 4.1 General

The R1 interface is defined between the rApps and the Non-RT RIC framework, as defined in R1GAP [11].

# REST based protocol stack

## 5.1  General

The layers of the protocol stack for the R1 interface are described in the following chapters:

- TCP [2] provides the communication service at the transport layer,
- TLS [10] is used as specified in SPS [13], clause 4.2  to provide secure HTTP  [17] [18] connections,
- HTTP [16] [17] [18] is used as application-level protocol,
- The data interchange layer constitutes the transport of documents in the JSON format [8].
Figure 5.1-1illustrates the REST based protocol stack for the R1 interface.

## 5.2 Network layer

As network layer at least one of IPv6 [9] or IPv4 [1] shall be supported.

## 5.3 Transport layer

TCP [2] shall be supported as transport protocol.

> NOTE:	When using TCP as the transport protocol, an HTTP connection is mapped to a TCP connection.

## 5.4 Security

The specification of security controls on the R1 interface in SRS [12], clause 5.2.6.2 shall be followed.

These security controls refer to the detailed specification of the support and use of TLS v1.2 and TLS v1.3 (IETF RFC 8446 [10]), and OAuth2.0 [14] with JSON Web Tokens (JWT) (IETF RFC 7519 [15])  in the O-RAN TS SPS [13] .

## 5.5 Application

As application layer, HTTP/1.1 [17] shall be supported, and HTTP/2 [18] should be supported. The HTTP semantics as defined in IETF RFC 9110 [16] shall be supported.

HTTP over TLS (as defined in IETF RFC 9112 for HTTP/1.1 [17] and in IETF RFC 9113 [18] for HTTP/2) shall be supported.

HTTP details such as use of standard headers, custom headers, error codes, methods, URIs etc. will be specified in   Application Protocols for R1 Services.

The default TCP port numbers should be used for HTTP operation.

## 5.6 Data interchange

As a data interchange format, JSON [8] shall be supported.

# Kafka based protocol stack

## 6.1  General

- The Kafka based protocol stack for the R1 interface includes the following layers:
- TCP [2] provides the communication service at the transport layer,
- TLS [10] is used to provide secure connections at the security layer,
- The Kafka Protocol Guide [20] is used at the application layer,
- The data interchange layer constitutes the serialization format in which data are represented.
Figure 6.1-1 illustrates the Kafka based protocol stack for the R1 interface.

## 6.2 Network layer

As network layer at least one of IPv6 [9] or Ipv4 [1] shall be supported.

## 6.3 Transport layer

TCP [2] shall be supported as defined in Kafka Protocol Guide [20].

## 6.4 Security

The specification of security controls on the R1 interface in SRS [12], clause 5.1.2.1 shall be followed.

## 6.5 Application

As application layer, Kafka Protocol Guide [20] version 3.0 or higher shall be supported. The Kafka semantics are defined in the Kafka Documentation [i.1].

R1 service procedures as defined in R1GAP [11] are mapped to the Kafka protocol in R1AP [19] .

## 6.6 Data interchange

The Kafka based protocol stack for the R1 interface is agnostic to the data serialization format.

| Date | Revision | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 2024.03.14 | 04.03 | Migrated the specification to new template and updated the Kafka Security requirements |
| 2024.03.18 | 04.02 | Update the specification by removing the TLS1.2 reference across the specifications |
| 2023.11.20 | 04.01 | Updated the version of the Kafka in the Application layer and published as final version 4.01 |
| 2023.07.29 | 04.00 | Published as Final version 4.0 |
| 2023.03.24 | 03.00 | Published as Final version 3.0 |
| 2022.07.28 | 02.00 | Published as Final version 2.0 |
| 2022.03.31 | 01.00 | Published as Final version 1.0 |


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG2.TS.R1TS-R004-v4.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG2.TS.R1TS-R004-v4.00 Technical Specification R1 interface: Test Specification"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in R1GAP [1], R1UCR [2], R1TP [3] apply.

## 3.2 Symbols
Void

## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in R1GAP [1], R1UCR [2], R1TP [3] apply.

# 4 Test methodology

## 4.1 General
This clause describes the methodology for conformance and interoperability testing of rApps and SMO/Non-Real Time RIC framework over R1 interface. For conformance tests, simulators are used for testing R1 procedures. These simulators will have capability of generating HTTP requests and responses. There will be flexibility in configuring URI, headers and body for these HTTP requests and responses to enable creation of various test cases. For interoperability tests, devices under tests are rApps and SMO/Non-RT RIC framework that are defined in the Non-RT RIC architecture specification [5], these devices are brought to operation by connecting to appropriate real or simulated devices.

## 4.2 Conformance testing of rApps

### 4.2.1 General
For conformance testing of rApps, rApp is the device under test and SMO/Non-RT RIC framework is the test simulator. The present document specifies conformance tests for API Consumer and API Producer functionality as specified in R1AP [4].

### 4.2.2 Test configuration

#### 4.2.2.1 Overview
The test configuration for R1 conformance testing of rApp is illustrated in figure 4.2.2.1-1. For testing of rApp over R1 interface, the rApp is onboarded and instantiated in the cloud environment of the test simulator.

# D U T
O fun T e st s im -clo ud c tion a lity

# U E s
u la to r

# S M O /N o n -R T R IC
fu n c tio n a lity

# E 2 n od e fun ction a lity
fra rA m e p w p

# 4 G
A /5

# G C o re
N fun fu n e ar-R T

# R IC c tion a lity
c tio n a lity

#### 4.2.2.2 Device under test rApps
For enabling conformance testing, rApp has implemented API Consumer and/or API Producer functionality and the procedures as specified in R1AP [4] that are required to perform testing of the applicable R1 service test cases.

#### 4.2.2.3 Test simulator
For enabling conformance testing, the test simulator has implemented API Producer and/or API Consumer functionality, have HTTP Client and HTTP Server capabilities, and have flexibility to generate, receive, and validate HTTP messages for all the R1 procedures. The test simulator logs all message content during the testing. As illustrated in figure 4.2.2.1-1, test simulator has all the capabilities required to execute the conformance testing of an rApp. For example, the test simulator has the capabilities to simulate the functionality of A1, O1, and O2 in a cloud environment.

## 4.3 Conformance testing of SMO/Non-RT RIC framework

### 4.3.1 General
For conformance testing of SMO/Non-RT RIC framework, SMO/Non-RT RIC framework is the device under test and rApp is the test simulator. The present document specifies conformance tests for API Consumer and API Producer functionality as specified in R1AP [4].

### 4.3.2 Test configuration

#### 4.3.2.1 Overview
The test configuration for R1 conformance testing of SMO/Non-RT RIC framework is illustrated in figure 4.3.2.1-1. D T

# U T
e st s O fu im

# O -c lo u d
n c tio n a lity

# U E s
u la to r

# S M
O O /N o n -R T R IC

# E 2 n o d
fr a m e w o r k

# T R IC
n a lity e fu n c tio n a lity rA p p R (s )

# G /5 G C o re fu n c tio n a lity

#### 4.3.2.2 Device under test (SMO/Non-RT RIC Framework)
For enabling conformance testing, the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework has implemented API Producer and/or API Consumer functionality, and the procedures specified in R1AP [4], that are required to perform testing of the applicable test cases.

#### 4.3.2.3 Test simulator
For enabling conformance testing, the test simulator rApp(s) has both API Producer and/or API Consumer and HTTP Server capabilities and have flexibility to generate, receive and validate HTTP messages for all the R1 procedures. As illustrated in figure 4.3.2.1-1, test simulator has all the capabilities required to execute the conformance testing of an SMO/Non-RT RIC framework. For example, the test simulator has the capabilities to simulate the functionality of A1, O1, and O2.

# 5 SME Service Registration service test cases

## 5.1 Conformance test cases for rApp

### 5.1.1 General

#### 5.1.1.1 Device under test requirements
The rApp that acts as Device Under Test (DUT) in these test scenarios, the requirements on the DUT for these tests are that it can handle the SME service registration service, and the purpose of the test scenarios is to validate that it confirms API Consumer functionality as specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.1.4.

#### 5.1.1.2 Test simulator capabilities
The test simulator has the capabilities as required for a SMO/Non-RT RIC framework. In addition, it has the following capabilities:
- Recording of received HTTP requests and responses and analyzing them regarding conformance to the R1 service
definitions.
- Controlled initiation of procedures with configurable URIs and payload formulated and modified.
Validating messages and issuing of verdicts related to the procedures in the test cases and thereby enabling determination of the DUT’s conformance API Producer functionality as specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.1.4.

### 5.1.2 Register service API as API Consumer test scenario

#### 5.1.2.1 Register service (positive case)

##### 5.1.2.1.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Register service API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.1.4.1. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 5.1.2.1.2 Test entrance criteria
The DUT has functionality to initiate the Register service procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.1.3.2.
> NOTE: The DUT provides the service API description as defined in R1AP [4], clause A.2.1.3. The service being
registered can be a standard or non-standard R1 service.

##### 5.1.2.1.3 Test methodology
5.1.2.1.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Producer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 5.1.2.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The DUT as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to register a service that it produces. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request is recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI confirms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.1.5.2. b) The HTTP request is a POST operation. c) The HTTP request message content includes rApp identifier and the service API description conforms to the schema as specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.1.4.1. Step 4. The test simulator generates the service API identifier and constructs the URI for the created resource and sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.1.4.1.1.

##### 5.1.2.1.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

#### 5.1.2.2 Update registered service (positive case)

##### 5.1.2.2.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Update registered service API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.1.4.2. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 5.1.2.2.2 Test entrance criteria
a) The DUT has functionality to initiate the Update registered service procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.1.3.2. b) A service API registration exists in test simulator and the serviceApiId and the apfId are known to DUT. c) The schema of the ServiceAPIDescription used for this test are available and used in DUT to formulate the Update registered service request, and in test simulator to validate the request.
> NOTE: The DUT provides the ServiceApiDescription as defined in R1AP [4], clause A.2.1.3. The service being updated
can be a standard or non-standard R1 service.

##### 5.1.2.2.3 Test methodology
5.1.2.2.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Producer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 5.1.2.2.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The DUT as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to update a registered service API identified by the apfId and the serviceApiId. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request is recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI confirms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.1.5.3. b) The HTTP request is a PUT operation. c) The apfId and the serviceApiId in the URI match the service API being updated. d) The HTTP request message body contains the ServiceAPIDescription of the service API to be updated and conforms to the schema as specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.1.4.2. Step 4. The test simulator updates the resource, and a representation of the updated resource shall be returned in the response body the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.1.5.3.1.1.

##### 5.1.2.2.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

#### 5.1.2.3 Deregister service (positive case)

##### 5.1.2.3.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Deregister service API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.1.4.3. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 5.1.2.3.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate the Deregister service procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.1.3.2. 2) A service API registration exists in test simulator and the serviceApiId and the apfId are known to DUT.

##### 5.1.2.3.3 Test methodology
5.1.2.3.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Producer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 5.1.2.3.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The DUT as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to deregister a service API identified by the apfID and the serviceApiId. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request is recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI confirms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.1.5.3. b) The HTTP request is a DELETE operation. c) The serviceApiId and apfId in the URI match the service being deleted. d) The message body is empty. Step 4. The test simulator generated the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.1.5.3.1.2.

##### 5.1.2.3.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

#### 5.1.2.4 Query registered service (positive case)

##### 5.1.2.4.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Query service APIs as specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.1.4.5. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 5.1.2.4.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate Query registered service procedure. 2) A set of service API registrations exist in the test simulator and the apfId is known to DUT.

##### 5.1.2.4.3 Test methodology
5.1.2.4.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Producer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 5.1.2.4.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The DUT as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to query service APIs that are registered by the apfId. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request is recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI confirms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.1.5.3. b) The HTTP request is a GET operation. c) The apfId in the URI match the service APIs being queried. d) The message body is empty. Step 4. The test simulator generated the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.1.5.2.1.2

##### 5.1.2.4.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

#### 5.1.5.5 Partially updated registered service (positive case)

##### 5.1.5.5.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the partially update registered service API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.1.4.4. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 5.1.5.5.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate the Partially update registered service procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.1.3.2. 2) A service API registration exists in test simulator and the serviceApiId and the apfId are known to DUT 3) The schema of the ServiceAPIDescriptionPatch used for this test are available and used in DUT to formulate the Partially update registered service request, and in test simulator to validate the request.
> NOTE: The DUT provides the ServiceApiDescriptionPatch as defined in R1AP [4]. The service being updated can be a
standard or non-standard R1 service.

##### 5.1.5.5.3 Test methodology
5.1.5.5.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Producer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 5.1.5.5.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The DUT as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to partially update a registered service API identified by the apfId and the serviceApiId. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request is recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI confirms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.1.5.3. b) The HTTP request is a PATCH operation. c) The apfId and the serviceApiId in the URI match the service API being updated. d) The HTTP request message body contains the ServiceAPIDescriptionPatch of the service API to be updated and conforms to the schema as specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.1.4.4. Step 4. The test simulator updates the resource, and a representation of the partially updated resource shall be returned in the response body the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.1.5.3.1.3.

##### 5.1.5.5.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

## 5.2 Conformance test cases for SMO/Non-RT RIC framework

### 5.2.1 General

#### 5.2.1.1 Device under test requirements
The SMO/Non-RT RIC framework that acts as Device Under Test (DUT) in these test scenarios, the requirements on the DUT for these tests are that it can handle the SME service registration service, and the purpose of the test scenarios is to validate that it confirms API Producer functionality as specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.1.4.

#### 5.2.1.2 Test simulator capabilities
The test simulator has the capabilities as specified in section 4.3.2. In addition, it has the following capabilities: 1) Recording of received HTTP requests and responses and analyzing them regarding conformance to the R1 service definitions. 2) Controlled initiation of procedures with configurable URIs and payload formulated and modified. Validating messages and issuing of verdicts related to the procedures in the test cases and thereby enabling determination of the DUT’s conformance to API Producer functionality as specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.1.4.

### 5.2.2 Register service API as API Producer test scenario

#### 5.2.2.1 Register service (positive case)

##### 5.2.2.1.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Register service API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.1.4.1. The expected outcome is successful validation of the response from the DUT.

##### 5.2.2.1.2 Test entrance criteria
The test simulator has functionality to initiate the Register service procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.1.3.2.
> NOTE: The test simulator provides the service API description as defined in R1AP [4], clause A.2.1.3. The service being
registered can be a standard or non-standard R1 service.

##### 5.2.2.1.3 Test methodology
5.2.2.1.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Consumer is ready and available to receive HTTP responses from the DUT. 5.2.2.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The test simulator as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to register a service that it produces. Step 2. The DUT receives the HTTP request. Step 3. The DUT does the following validation: a) The HTTP request is a POST request. b) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.1.5.2.1.1. c) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.1.4.1. Step 4. The DUT generates the service API identifier and constructs the URI for the created resource. Step 5. The DUT sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.1.4.1.1. Step 6. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP response is recorded. Step 7. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The HTTP response message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.1.4.1, and the Location header will be present. b) The URI confirms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.1.5.2.

##### 5.2.2.1.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 7 validation has passed.

#### 5.2.2.2 Update registered service (positive case)

##### 5.2.2.2.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Update registered service API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.1.4.2. The expected outcome is successful validation of the response from the DUT.

##### 5.2.2.2.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The test simulator has functionality to initiate the Update registered service procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.1.3.2. 2) A service API registration exists in DUT and the serviceApiId and the apfId are known to test simulator. 3) The schema of the ServiceAPIDescription used for this test are available and used in test simulator to formulate the Update registered service request, and in the test simulator to validate the request.
> NOTE: The test simulator provides the ServiceApiDescription as defined in R1AP [4], clause A.2.1.3. The service being
updated can be a standard or non-standard R1 service.

##### 5.2.2.2.3 Test methodology
5.2.2.2.3.1 Initial conditions The DUT as API Producer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the test simulator. 5.2.2.2.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The test simulator as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to update a registered service API identified by the apfId and the serviceApiId. Step 2. The DUT receives the HTTP request. Step 3. The DUT does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.1.5.3. b) The HTTP request is a PUT operation. c) The apfId and the serviceApiId in the URI match the service API being updated. d) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.1.4.2. Step 4. The DUT sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.1.4.2.1. Step 5. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP response is recorded. Step 6. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The HTTP response message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.1.4.2, and the Location header will be present.

##### 5.2.2.2.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 6 validation has passed.

#### 5.2.2.3 Deregister service (positive case)

##### 5.2.2.3.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Deregister service API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.1.4.3. The expected outcome is successful validation of the response from the DUT.

##### 5.2.2.3.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The test simulator has functionality to initiate the Deregister service procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.1.3.2. 2) A service API registration exists in DUT and the serviceApiId and the apfId are known to test simulator.

##### 5.2.2.3.3 Test methodology
5.2.2.3.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Consumer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the test simulator. 5.2.2.3.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The test simulator as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to deregister a service API identified by the apfID and the serviceApiId. Step 2. The DUT receives the HTTP request. Step 3. The DUT does the following validation: a) The HTTP request is a DELETE request. b) The URI format as specified in R1AP [4]R1AP [4], clause 6.1.5.3.1.2. c) The HTTP request content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.1.4.3.1. Step 4. The DUT sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.1.4.3.1. Step 5. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP response is recorded. Step 6. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI confirms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.1.5.3. b) The HTTP response message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.1.4.3.1. c) The message body is empty.

##### 5.2.2.3.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 6 validation has passed.

#### 5.2.2.4 Query registered service (positive case)

##### 5.2.2.4.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Query service APIs as specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.1.4.5. The expected outcome is successful validation of the response from the DUT.

##### 5.2.2.4.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The test simulator has functionality to initiate Query registered service procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.1.3.2. 2) A set of service API registrations exist in the DUT and the apfId is known to test simulator.

##### 5.2.2.4.3 Test methodology
5.2.2.4.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Consumer is ready and available to receive HTTP responses from the DUT. 5.2.2.4.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The test simulator as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to query service APIs that are registered by the apfId. Step 2. The DUT receives the HTTP request. Step 3. The DUT does the following validation: a) The HTTP request is a GET request. b) The URI format as specified in R1AP [4]R1AP [4], clause 6.1.5.2.1.2. c) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.1.4.5.1 Step 4. The DUT initiates a HTTP Response. Step 5. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP response is recorded. Step 6. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.1.5.2. b) The HTTP response message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.1.4.5.1.

##### 5.2.2.4.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 6 validation has passed.

#### 5.2.5.5 Partially update registered service (positive case)

##### 5.2.5.5.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the partially update registered service API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.1.4.4. The expected outcome is successful validation of the response from the DUT.

##### 5.2.5.5.2 Test entrance criteria
3) The test simulator has functionality to initiate the Partially update registered service procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.1.3.2. 4) A service API registration exists in DUT and the serviceApiId and the apfId are known to test simulator 5) The schema of the ServiceAPIDescriptionPatch used for this test are available and used in test simulator to formulate the Partially update registered service request, and in test simulator to validate the request.
> NOTE: The test simulator provides the ServiceApiDescriptionPatch as defined in R1AP [4]. The service being updated
can be a standard or non-standard R1 service.

##### 5.2.5.5.3 Test methodology
5.2.5.5.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Consumer is ready and available to receive HTTP responses from the DUT. 5.2.5.5.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The test simulator as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to partially update a registered service API identified by the apfId and the serviceApiId. Step 2. The DUT receives the HTTP request. Step 3. The DUT does the following validation: a) The HTTP request is a PATCH request. b) The URI format as specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.1.5.3.1.3. c) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.1.4.4. Step 4. The DUT initiates a HTTP Response. Step 5. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request is recorded. Step 6. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The HTTP response message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.1.4.4, and the Location header will be present.

##### 5.2.5.5.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 6 validation has passed.

# 6 SME Service Discovery service test cases

## 6.1 Conformance test cases for rApp

### 6.1.1 General

#### 6.1.1.1 Device under test requirements
The rApp that acts as Device Under Test (DUT) in these test scenarios, the requirements on the DUT for these tests are that it can handle the SME service discovery service, and the purpose of the test scenarios is to validate that it conforms to the Service discovery API specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.2.4.

#### 6.1.1.2 Test simulator capabilities
The test simulator has the capabilities as required for a SMO/Non-RT RIC framework. In addition, it has the following capabilities:
- Recording of received HTTP requests and responses and analyzing them regarding conformance to the R1 service
definitions.
- Controlled initiation of procedures with configurable URIs and payload formulated and modified.
Validating messages and issuing of verdicts related to the procedures in the test cases and thereby enabling determination of the DUT’s conformance API Producer functionality as specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.2.4.

### 6.1.2 Discover service API as API Consumer test scenario

#### 6.1.2.1 Query service (positive case)

##### 6.1.2.1.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Query service APIs operation as specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.2.4.1. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 6.1.2.1.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate the Discover services procedure. 2) A set of service API registrations exist in the test simulator.

##### 6.1.2.1.3 Test methodology
6.1.2.1.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The test simulator as API Producer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 6.1.2.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The DUT as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to query service APIs. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request is recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI confirms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.2.5.2. b) The HTTP request is a GET operation. c) The message body is empty. Step 4. The test simulator generated the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.2.5.2.1.1.
> NOTE: Presence or validation of optional filter parameters is not used to determine validation on this test.

##### 6.1.2.1.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

## 6.2 Conformance test cases for SMO/Non-RT RIC framework

### 6.2.1 General

#### 6.2.1.1 Device under test requirements
The SMO/Non-RT RIC framework that acts as Device Under Test (DUT) in these test scenarios, the requirements on the DUT for these tests are that it can handle the SME service discovery service, and the purpose of the test scenarios is to validate that it conforms to the Service discovery API specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.2.4.

#### 6.2.1.2 Test simulator capabilities
The test simulator has the capabilities as specified in section 4.3.2. In addition, it has the following capabilities: 1) Recording of received HTTP requests and responses and analyzing them regarding conformance to the R1 service definitions. 2) Controlled initiation of procedures with configurable URIs and payload formulated and modified. Validating messages and issuing of verdicts related to the procedures in the test cases and thereby enabling determination of the DUT’s conformance to API Producer functionality as specified in R1AP [1], clause 6.2.4.

### 6.2.2 Service discovery API as API Producer test scenario

#### 6.2.2.1 Query service (positive case)

##### 6.2.2.1.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Query service APIs as specified in R1AP [1] clause 6.2.4.1. The expected outcome is successful validation of the response from the DUT.

##### 6.2.2.1.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate the Discover services procedure. 2) A set of service API registrations exist in the test simulator.

##### 6.2.2.1.3 Test methodology
6.2.2.1.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Consumer is ready and available to receive HTTP responses from the DUT. 6.2.2.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The test simulator as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to query service APIs that are registered by the apfId. Step 2. The DUT receives the HTTP request. Step 3. The DUT does the following validation: a) The HTTP request is a GET request. b) The URI conforms to the format as specified in R1AP[4], clause 6.2.5.2. c) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.2.4.1. Step 4. The DUT initiates a HTTP Response. Step 5. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP response is recorded. Step 6. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP[4], clause 6.2.5.2. b) The HTTP response message content includes the information as specified in R1AP[4], clause.6.2.4.1.

##### 6.2.2.1.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 6 validation has passed.

# 7 SME Service Subscription service test cases

## 7.1 Conformance test cases for rApp

### 7.1.1 General

#### 7.1.1.1 Device under test requirements
The rApp that acts as DUT in these test scenarios, the requirements on the DUT for these tests are that it can handle the SME service subscription service, and the purpose of the test scenarios is to validate that it conforms to the API Consumer functionality as specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.3.4.

#### 7.1.1.2 Test simulator capabilities
The test simulator has the capabilities as required for a SMO/Non-RT RIC framework. In addition, it has the following capabilities:
- Recording of received HTTP requests and responses and analyzing them regarding conformance to the R1 service
definitions.
- Controlled initiation of procedures with configurable URIs and payload formulated and modified.
Validating messages and issuing of verdicts related to the procedures in the test cases and thereby enabling determination of the DUT’s conformance to the API Consumer functionality as specified in R1AP[4], clause 6.3.4.

### 7.1.2 Service events subscription API as API Consumer test scenario

#### 7.1.2.1 Subscribe service events (positive case)

##### 7.1.2.1.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Events subscription service API as specified in R1AP[4], clause 6.3.4.1. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 7.1.2.1.2 Test entrance criteria
The DUT has functionality to initiate the Subscribe service availability procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.1.4.
> NOTE: The DUT provides the events subscription structure as defined in R1AP[4], clause 6.3.3. The service event being
subscribed to can be a standard or non-standard R1 service event.

##### 7.1.2.1.3 Test methodology
7.1.2.1.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The test simulator as API Producer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 2) The subscriberId is known to DUT. 7.1.2.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The DUT as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to subscribe to service event notifications. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request is recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP[4], clause 6.3.5.2. b) The HTTP request is a POST operation. c) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP[4], clause 6.3.4.1.1. Step 4. The test simulator generates the subscription identifier and constructs the URI for the created resource and sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP[4], clause 6.3.4.1.1.

# 7 .1.2.1.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

#### 7.1.2.2 Unsubscribe service events (positive case)

##### 7.1.2.2.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the unsubscribe service API as specified in R1AP[4], clause 6.3.4.2. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 7.1.2.2.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate the Unsubscribe service availability procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.1.4. 2) A subscription exists and the subscriberId and subscriptionId are known to the DUT.

##### 7.1.2.2.3 Test methodology
7.1.2.2.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Producer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 7.1.2.2.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The DUT as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to unsubscribe from service event notifications identified by the subscriberId and subscriptionId. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request is recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP[4], clause 6.3.5.3. b) The HTTP request is a DELETE operation. c) The subscriberId and subscriptionId in the URI match the service events being deleted. d) The message body is empty. Step 4. The test simulator generated the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP[4], clause 6.3.5.3.1.1.

##### 7.1.2.2.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

## 7.2 Conformance test cases for SMO/Non-RT RIC framework

### 7.2.1 General

#### 7.2.1.1 Device under test requirements
The SMO/Non-RT RIC framework that acts as DUT in these test scenarios, the requirements on the DUT for these tests are that it can handle the SME service events subscription service, and the purpose of the test scenarios is to validate that it conforms to the API Producer functionality as specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.3.4.

#### 7.2.1.2 Test simulator capabilities
The test simulator has the capabilities as specified in section 4.3.2. In addition, it has the following capabilities: 1) Recording of received HTTP requests and responses and analyzing them regarding conformance to the R1 service definitions. 2) Controlled initiation of procedures with configurable URIs and payload formulated and modified. Validating messages and issuing of verdicts related to the procedures in the test cases and thereby enabling determination of the DUT’s conformance to the API Producer functionality as specified in R1AP[4], clause 6.3.4.

### 7.2.2 Service events subscription API as API Producer test scenario

#### 7.2.2.1 Service events subscription (positive case)

##### 7.2.2.1.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Events subscription service API as specified in R1AP[4], clause 6.3.4.1. The expected outcome is successful validation of the response from the DUT.

##### 7.2.2.1.2 Test entrance criteria
The test simulator has functionality to initiate the Subscribe service availability procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.1.4.
> NOTE: The test simulator provides the events subscription structure as defined in R1AP[4], clause 6.3.3. The service
being subscribed to can be a standard or non-standard R1 service.

##### 7.2.2.1.3 Test methodology
7.2.2.1.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Consumer is ready and available to receive HTTP responses from the DUT. 7.2.2.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The test simulator as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to subscribe to service event notifications. Step 2. The DUT receives the HTTP request. Step 3. The DUT does the following validation: a) The HTTP request is a POST request. b) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP[4], clause 6.3.5.2.1.1. c) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP[4], clause 6.3.4.1.1. Step 4. The DUT generates the subscription identifier and constructs the URI for the created resource. Step 5. The DUT sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP[4], clause 6.3.4.1.1. Step 6. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP response is recorded. Step 7. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The HTTP response message content includes the information as specified in R1AP[4], clause 6.3.4.1.1, and the Location header will be present. b) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP[4], clause 6.3.5.2.

##### 7.2.2.1.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 7 validation has passed.

#### 7.2.2.2 Unsubscribe service events (positive case)

##### 7.2.2.2.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Unsubscribe service API as specified in R1AP[4], clause 6.3.4.2. The expected outcome is successful validation of the response from the DUT.

##### 7.2.2.2.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The test simulator has functionality to initiate the Unsubscribe service availability procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.1.4. 2) A subscription exists and the subscriberId and subscriptionId are known to the test simulator.

##### 7.2.2.2.3 Test methodology
7.2.2.2.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Consumer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 7.2.2.2.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The test simulator as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to unsubscribe from service event notifications identified by the subscriberId and subscriptionId. Step 2. The DUT receives the HTTP request. Step 3. The DUT does the following validation: a) The HTTP request is a DELETE request. b) The URI format as specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.3.5.3.1.1. c) The subscriberId and subscriptionId in the URI match the service events being deleted. d) The message body is empty. Step 4. The DUT sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP[4] , clause 6.3.4.2.1. Step 5. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP response is recorded. Step 6. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The return code is "204 No content". b) The response message body is empty.

##### 7.2.2.2.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 6 validation has passed.

#### 7.2.2.3 Notification service (positive case)

##### 7.2.2.3.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the notification service API as specified in R1AP[4], clause 6.3.4.3. The expected outcome is successful validation of the event notification from the DUT.

##### 7.2.2.3.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate the Notify service availability changes procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.1.4. 2) A subscription exists in the DUT.

##### 7.2.2.3.3 Test methodology
7.2.2.3.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Consumer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 7.2.2.3.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The DUT as an API producer initiates the sending of a HTTP POST request. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request is recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The HTTP request is a POST operation. b) The callback URI matches the URI provided in the subscription.

##### 7.2.2.3.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

# 8 DME Data registration service test cases

## 8.1 Conformance test cases for rApp

### 8.1.1 General

#### 8.1.1.1 Device under test requirements
The rApp that acts as DUT in the test scenarios, the requirements on the DUT for these tests are that it can handle the Data registration service, and the purpose of the test scenarios is to validate that it conforms to the API Consumer functionality as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.1.4.

#### 8.1.1.2 Test simulator capabilities
The test simulator has the capabilities as required for a SMO/Non-RT RIC framework. In addition, it has the following capabilities:
- Recording of received HTTP requests and responses and analyzing them regarding conformance to the R1 service
definitions.
- Controlled initiation of procedures with configurable URIs and payload formulated and modified.
Validating messages and issuing of verdicts related to the procedures in the test cases and thereby enabling determination of the DUT’s conformance to the API Consumer functionality as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.1.4.

### 8.1.2 Data registration API as API consumer test scenario

#### 8.1.2.1 Register DME type (positive case)

##### 8.1.2.1.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Register DME type in Data registration API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.1.4.1. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 8.1.2.1.2 Test entrance criteria
The DUT has functionality to initiate the Register DME type procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.2.2.
> NOTE: The DUT provides the service API description as defined in R1AP [4], clause A.2.1.3. The service being
registered can be a standard or non-standard R1 service.

##### 8.1.2.1.3 Test methodology
8.1.2.1.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Producer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 8.1.2.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The DUT as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to register a DmeTypeRelatedCapabilities. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request is recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI confirms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.1.5.2.2. b) The HTTP request is a POST operation. c) The HTTP request message content includes DmeTypeRelatedCapabilities as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.1.4. Step 4. The test simulator generates the registrationId and constructs the URI for the created resource and sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.1.5.2.3.1.

##### 8.1.2.1.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

#### 8.1.2.2 Deregister DME type (positive case)

##### 8.1.2.2.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Deregister DME type in Data registration API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.1.4.2. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 8.1.2.2.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate the Deregister DME type procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.2.2.2. 2) A DME type exists in test simulator and the registrationId is known to the DUT.

##### 8.1.2.2.3 Test methodology
8.1.2.2.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Producer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 8.1.2.2.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The DUT as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to Deregister DME type. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request is recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.1.5.3.2. b) The HTTP request is a DELETE operation. c) The registrationId in the URI match the DME type being deregistered. d) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.1.5.3.3. Step 4. The test simulator constructs the URI for the created resource and sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.1.5.3.3

##### 8.1.2.2.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

#### 8.1.2.3 Query DME type (positive case)

##### 8.1.2.3.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Query DME type in Data registration API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.1.4.4. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 8.1.2.3.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate the query DME type registration procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.2.2.2. 2) A DME type exists in test simulator and the registrationId is known to the DUT.

##### 8.1.2.3.3 Test methodology
8.1.2.3.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Producer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 8.1.2.3.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The DUT as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to query a DME type. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request is recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.1.5.3.2. b) The HTTP request is a GET operation. c) The registrationId in the URI match the DME type being queried. d) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.1.5.3.3. Step 4. The test simulator constructs the URI for the created resource and sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.1.5.3.3.

##### 8.1.2.3.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

#### 8.1.2.4 Update DME type (positive case)

##### 8.1.2.4.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Update DME type in Data registration API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.1.4.3. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 8.1.2.4.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate the Update DME type registration procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.2.2.2. 2) A DME type exists in test simulator and the registrationId and DmeTypeRelatedCapabilities are known to the DUT.

##### 8.1.2.4.3 Test methodology
8.1.2.4.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Producer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 8.1.2.4.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The DUT as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to update a DME type identified by the registrationId and DmeTypeRelatedCapabilities. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request is recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI confirms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.1.5.3.2. b) The HTTP request is a PUT operation. c) The registrationId and DmeTypeRelatedCapabilities in the URI match the DME type being updated. d) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.1.5.3.3. Step 4. The test simulator updates the resource, and a representation of the updated resource shall be returned in the response body the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.1.5.3.3.

##### 8.1.2.4.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

## 8.2 Conformance test cases for SMO/Non-RT RIC framework

### 8.2.1 General

#### 8.2.1.1 Device under test requirements
The SMO/Non-RT RIC framework that acts as DUT in these test scenarios, the requirements on the DUT for these tests are that it can handle the Data registration service, and the purpose of the test scenarios is to validate that it conforms to the API Producer functionality as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.1.4.

#### 8.2.1.2 Test simulator capabilities
The test simulator has the capabilities as required for a rApp. In addition, it has the following capabilities:
- Recording of received HTTP requests and responses and analyzing them regarding conformance to the R1 service
definitions.
- Controlled initiation of procedures with configurable URIs and payload formulated and modified.
Validating messages and issuing of verdicts related to the procedures in the test cases and thereby enabling determination of the DUT’s conformance to the API Producer functionality as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.1.4.

### 8.2.2 Data registration API as API Producer test scenario

#### 8.2.2.1 Register DME type (positive case)

##### 8.2.2.1.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Register DME type in Data registration API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.1.4.1. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 8.2.2.1.2 Test entrance criteria
The test simulator has functionality to initiate the Register DME type procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.2.2.

##### 8.2.2.1.3 Test methodology
8.2.2.1.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Consumer is ready and available to receive HTTP responses from the DUT. 8.2.2.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The test simulator as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to register a DmeTypeRelatedCapabilities. Step 2. The DUT receives the HTTP request. Step 3. The DUT does the following validation: a) The HTTP request is a POST request. b) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.1.5.2.2. c) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.1.5.2.3.1. Step 4. The DUT generates the data job and constructs the URI for the created resource. Step 5. The DUT sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.1.5.2.3.1. Step 6. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP response is recorded. Step 7. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The HTTP response message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.1.5.2.3.1, and the Location header will be present. b) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.1.5.2.2.

##### 8.2.2.1.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 7 validation has passed.

#### 8.2.2.2 Deregister DME type (positive case)

##### 8.2.2.2.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Deregister DME type in Data registration API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.1.4.2. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 8.2.2.2.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The test simulator has functionality to initiate the Deregister DME type procedure as defined in R1GAP [1] clause 5.2.2.2. 2) A DME type exists in test simulator and the registrationId is known to the DUT.

##### 8.2.2.2.3 Test methodology
8.2.2.2.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Consumer is ready and available to receive HTTP responses from the DUT. 8.2.2.2.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The test simulator as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to Deregister DME type. Step 2. The DUT receives the HTTP request. Step 3. The DUT does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.1.5.3.2. b) The HTTP request is a DELETE operation. c) The registrationId in the URI match the DME type being deregistered. d) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.1.5.3.3. Step 4. The DUT sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.1.5.3.3. Step 5. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP response is recorded. Step 6. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI confirms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.1.5.3.2. b) The HTTP response message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.1.5.3.3.

##### 8.2.2.2.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 6 validation has passed.

#### 8.2.2.3 Query DME type (positive case)

##### 8.2.2.3.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Query DME type in Data registration API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.1.4.4. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 8.2.2.3.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The test simulator has functionality to initiate the query DME type registration procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.2.2.2. 2) A DME type exists in test simulator and the registrationId is known to the DUT.

##### 8.2.2.3.3 Test methodology
8.2.2.3.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Consumer is ready and available to receive HTTP responses from the DUT. 8.2.2.3.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The test simulator as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to query a DME type. Step 2. The DUT receives the HTTP request. Step 3. The DUT does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.1.5.3.2. b) The HTTP request is a GET operation. c) The registrationId in the URI match the data job status being queried. d) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.1.5.3.3. Step 4. The DUT sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.1.5.3.3. Step 5. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP response is recorded. Step 6. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.1.5.3.2. b) The HTTP response message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.1.5.3.3.

##### 8.2.2.3.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 6 validation has passed.

#### 8.2.2.4 Update DME type (positive case)

##### 8.2.2.4.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Update DME type in Data registration API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.1.4.3. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 8.2.2.4.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The test simulator has functionality to initiate the Update DME type registration procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.2.2.2 2) A DME type exists in test simulator and the registrationId and DmeTypeRelatedCapabilities are known to the DUT

##### 8.2.2.4.3 Test methodology
8.2.2.4.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Consumer is ready and available to receive HTTP responses from the DUT. 8.2.2.4.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The test simulator as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to update a DME type identified by the registrationId and DmeTypeRelatedCapabilities. Step 2. The DUT receives the HTTP request. Step 3. The DUT does the following validation: a) The HTTP request is a PUT request. b) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.1.5.3.2. c) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.1.5.3.3. Step 4. The DUT generates the data job and constructs the URI for the created resource. Step 5. The DUT sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.1.5.3.3. Step 6. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP response is recorded. Step 7. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The HTTP response message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.1.5.3.3. b) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.1.5.3.2.

##### 8.2.2.4.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 7 validation has passed.

# 9 DME Data request service test cases

## 9.1 Conformance test cases for rApp

### 9.1.1 General

#### 9.1.1.1 Device under test requirements
The rApp that acts as DUT in these test scenarios, the requirements on the DUT for these tests are that it can handle the DME Data request service, and the purpose of the test scenarios is to validate that it conforms to the API Consumer functionality as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.

#### 9.1.1.2 Test simulator capabilities
The test simulator has the capabilities as required for a SMO/Non-RT RIC framework. In addition, it has the following capabilities:
- Recording of received HTTP requests and responses and analyzing them regarding conformance to the R1 service
definitions.
- Controlled initiation of procedures with configurable URIs and payload formulated and modified.
Validating messages and issuing of verdicts related to the procedures in the test cases and thereby enabling determination of the DUT’s conformance to the API Consumer functionality as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.

### 9.1.2 Data access API as API Consumer test scenario

#### 9.1.2.1 Create data job (positive case)

##### 9.1.2.1.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the create data job API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.1. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 9.1.2.1.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate the request data procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.2.4. 2) The DataJobInfo is known to the DUT.

##### 9.1.2.1.3 Test methodology
9.1.2.1.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Producer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 9.1.2.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The DUT as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to create a data job. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request is recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.1. b) The HTTP request is a POST operation. c) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.1. Step 4. The test simulator constructs the URI for the created resource and sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [1], clause 7.3.4.1.1.

##### 9.1.2.1.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

#### 9.1.2.2 Cancel data job (positive case)

##### 9.1.2.2.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Cancel data job API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.2. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 9.1.2.2.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate the cancel data request procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.2.4. 2) A data job exists in test simulator and the dataJobId is known to the DUT.

##### 9.1.2.2.3 Test methodology
9.1.2.2.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Producer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 9.1.2.2.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The DUT as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to cancel a data job. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request is recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.5.3. b) The HTTP request is a DELETE operation. c) The dataJobID in the URI match the data job being deleted. d) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.2. Step 4. The test simulator constructs the URI for the created resource and sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [1], clause 7.3.4.2.1.

##### 9.1.2.2.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

#### 9.1.2.3 Query data job status (positive case)

##### 9.1.2.3.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the query data job status API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.6 The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 9.1.2.3.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate the query data request status procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.2.4. 2) A data job exists in test simulator and the dataJobId is known to the DUT.

##### 9.1.2.3.3 Test methodology
9.1.2.3.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Producer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 9.1.2.3.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The DUT as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to query a data job status. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request is recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.6.1. b) The HTTP request is a GET operation. c) The dataJobID in the URI match the data job being queried. d) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.6.1. Step 4. The test simulator constructs the URI for the created resource and sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.6.1.

##### 9.1.2.3.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

## 9.2 Conformance test cases for SMO/Non-RT RIC framework

### 9.2.1 General

#### 9.2.1.1 Device under test requirements
The SMO/Non-RT RIC framework that acts as DUT in these test scenarios, the requirements on the DUT for these tests are that it can handle the DME Data request service, and the purpose of the test scenarios is to validate that it conforms to the API Producer functionality as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.

#### 9.2.1.2 Test simulator capabilities
The test simulator has the capabilities as required for a rApp. In addition, it has the following capabilities:
- Recording of received HTTP requests and responses and analyzing them regarding conformance to the R1 service
definitions.
- Controlled initiation of procedures with configurable URIs and payload formulated and modified.
Validating messages and issuing of verdicts related to the procedures in the test cases and thereby enabling determination of the DUT’s conformance to the API Producer functionality as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.

### 9.2.2 Data access API as API Producer test scenario

#### 9.2.2.1 Create data job (positive case)

##### 9.2.2.1.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the create data job API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.1. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 9.2.2.1.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The test simulator has functionality to initiate the request data procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.2.4. 2) The DataJobInfo is known to the DUT

##### 9.2.2.1.3 Test methodology
9.2.2.1.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Consumer is ready and available to receive HTTP responses from the DUT. 9.2.2.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The test simulator as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to create a data job. Step 2. The DUT receives the HTTP request. Step 3. The DUT does the following validation: a) The HTTP request is a POST request. b) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.5.2.3.1. c) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.1. Step 4. The DUT generates the data job and constructs the URI for the created resource. Step 5. The DUT sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.1. Step 6. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP response is recorded. Step 7. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The HTTP response message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.1, and the Location header will be present. b) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.5.3.

##### 9.2.2.1.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 7 validation has passed.

#### 9.2.2.2 Cancel data job (positive case)

##### 9.2.2.2.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Cancel data job API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.2. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 9.2.2.2.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The test simulator has functionality to initiate the cancel data request procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.2.4. 2) A data job exists in DUT and the dataJobId is known to the test simulator.

##### 9.2.2.2.3 Test methodology
9.2.2.2.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Consumer is ready and available to receive HTTP responses from the DUT. 9.2.2.2.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The test simulator as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to cancel a data job. Step 2. The DUT receives the HTTP request. Step 3. The DUT does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.5.3.3.1. b) The HTTP request is a DELETE operation. c) The dataJobID in the URI match the data job being deleted. d) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.2. Step 4. The DUT sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.2. Step 5. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP response is recorded. Step 6. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI confirms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.5.3. b) The HTTP response message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.2.

##### 9.2.2.2.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 6 validation has passed.

#### 9.2.2.3 Query data job status (positive case)

##### 9.2.2.3.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the query data job status API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.6 The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 9.2.2.3.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The test simulator has functionality to initiate the query data request status procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.2.4. 2) A data job exists in the DUT and the dataJobId is known to the test simulator.

##### 9.2.2.3.3 Test methodology
9.2.2.3.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Consumer is ready and available to receive HTTP responses from the DUT. 9.2.2.3.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The test simulator as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to query a data job status. Step 2. The DUT receives the HTTP request. Step 3. The DUT does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.5.4. b) The HTTP request is a GET operation. c) The dataJobID in the URI match the data job status being queried. d) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.6.1. Step 4. The DUT constructs the URI for the created resource and sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.6.1. Step 5. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP response is recorded. Step 6. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.5.4. b) The HTTP response message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.6.1.

##### 9.2.2.3.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 6 validation has passed.

# 10 DME Data subscription service test cases

## 10.1 Conformance test cases for rApp

### 10.1.1 General

#### 10.1.1.1 Device under test requirements
The rApp that acts as DUT in these test scenarios, the requirements on the DUT for these tests are that it can handle the DME Data subscription service, and the purpose of the test scenarios is to validate that it conforms to the API Consumer functionality as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.

#### 10.1.1.2 Test simulator capabilities
The test simulator has the capabilities as required for a SMO/Non-RT RIC framework. In addition, it has the following capabilities:
- Recording of received HTTP requests and responses and analyzing them regarding conformance to the R1 service
definitions.
- Controlled initiation of procedures with configurable URIs and payload formulated and modified.
Validating messages and issuing of verdicts related to the procedures in the test cases and thereby enabling determination of the DUT’s conformance to the API Consumer functionality as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.

### 10.1.2 Data access API as API Consumer test scenario

#### 10.1.2.1 Create data job (positive case)

##### 10.1.2.1.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the create data job API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.1. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 10.1.2.1.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate the subscribe data procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.2.5. 2) The DataJobInfo is known to the DUT

##### 10.1.2.1.3 Test methodology
10.1.2.1.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Producer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 10.1.2.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The DUT as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to create a data job. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request is recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.1. b) The HTTP request is a POST operation. c) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.1. Step 4. The test simulator constructs the URI for the created resource and sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.1.1.

##### 10.1.2.1.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

#### 10.1.2.2 Cancel data job (positive case)

##### 10.1.2.2.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Cancel data job API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.2. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 10.1.2.2.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate the unsubscribe data procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.2.5. 2) A data job exists in test simulator and the dataJobId is known to the DUT.

##### 10.1.2.2.3 Test methodology
10.1.2.2.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Producer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 10.1.2.2.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The DUT as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to cancel a data job. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request is recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.5.3. b) The HTTP request is a DELETE operation. c) The dataJobID in the URI match the data job being deleted. d) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.2. Step 4. The test simulator constructs the URI for the created resource and sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.2.1.

##### 10.1.2.2.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

#### 10.1.2.3 Query data job (positive case)

##### 10.1.2.3.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the query data job API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.5 The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 10.1.2.3.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate the query data subscription procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.2.5. 2) A data job exists in test simulator and the dataJobId is known to the DUT.

##### 10.1.2.3.3 Test methodology
10.1.2.3.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Producer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 10.1.2.3.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The DUT as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to query a data job. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request is recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.5.1. b) The HTTP request is a GET operation. c) The dataJobID in the URI match the data job being queried. d) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.5.1. Step 4. The test simulator constructs the URI for the created resource and sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.6.1.

##### 10.1.2.3.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

#### 10.1.2.4 Query data job status (positive case)

##### 10.1.2.4.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the query data job status API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.6 The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 10.1.2.4.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate the query data subscription status procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.2.5. 2) A data job exists in test simulator and the dataJobId is known to the DUT.

##### 10.1.2.4.3 Test methodology
10.1.2.4.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Producer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 10.1.2.4.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The DUT as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to query a data job status. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request is recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.6.1. b) The HTTP request is a GET operation. c) The dataJobID in the URI match the data job being queried. d) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.6.1. Step 4. The test simulator constructs the URI for the created resource and sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.6.1.

##### 10.1.2.4.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

#### 10.1.2.5 Query data job identifiers (positive case)

##### 10.1.2.5.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the query data job identifiers API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.7 The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 10.1.2.5.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate the query data subscription status procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.2.5. 2) A set of data jobs exists in test simulator.

##### 10.1.2.5.3 Test methodology
10.1.2.5.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Producer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 10.1.2.5.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The DUT as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to query data job identifiers. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request is recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.7.1. b) The HTTP request is a GET operation. c) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.7.1. Step 4. The test simulator constructs the URI for the created resource and sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.7.1.

##### 10.1.2.5.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

#### 10.1.2.6 Update data job (positive case)

##### 10.1.2.6.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Update data job API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.5. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 10.1.2.6.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate the Update data job procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.2.5. 2) A data job exists in test simulator and the dataJobId and DataJobInfo are known to the DUT.

##### 10.1.2.6.3 Test methodology
10.1.2.6.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Producer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 10.1.2.6.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The DUT as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to update a data job identified by the dataJobId and DataJobInfo. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request is recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI confirms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.4. b) The HTTP request is a PUT operation. c) The dataJobId and DataJobInfo in the URI match the data job being updated d) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.4.1. Step 4. The test simulator updates the resource, and a representation of the updated resource shall be returned in the response body the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.4.1.

##### 10.1.2.6.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

## 10.2 Conformance test cases for SMO/Non-RT RIC framework

### 10.2.1 General

#### 10.2.1.1 Device under test requirements
The SMO/Non-RT RIC framework that acts as DUT in these test scenarios, the requirements on the DUT for these tests are that it can handle the DME Data subscription service, and the purpose of the test scenarios is to validate that it conforms to the API Producer functionality as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.

#### 10.2.1.2 Test simulator capabilities
The test simulator has the capabilities as required for a rApp. In addition, it has the following capabilities:
- Recording of received HTTP requests and responses and analyzing them regarding conformance to the R1 service
definitions.
- Controlled initiation of procedures with configurable URIs and payload formulated and modified.
Validating messages and issuing of verdicts related to the procedures in the test cases and thereby enabling determination of the DUT’s conformance to the API Producer functionality as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.

### 10.2.2 Data access API as API Producer test scenario

#### 10.2.2.1 Create data job (positive case)

##### 10.2.2.1.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the create data job API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.1. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 10.2.2.1.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The test simulator has functionality to initiate the subscribe data procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.2.5. 2) The DataJobInfo is known to the DUT

##### 10.2.2.1.3 Test methodology
10.2.2.1.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Consumer is ready and available to receive HTTP responses from the DUT. 10.2.2.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The test simulator as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to create a data job. Step 2. The DUT receives the HTTP request. Step 3. The DUT does the following validation: a) The HTTP request is a POST request. b) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.5.2.3.1. c) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.1. Step 4. The DUT generates the data job and constructs the URI for the created resource. Step 5. The DUT sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.1. Step 6. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP response is recorded. Step 7. The test simulator does the following validation: a. The HTTP response message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.1, and the Location header will be present. b. The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.5.3.

##### 10.2.2.1.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 7 validation has passed.

#### 10.2.2.2 Cancel data job (positive case)

##### 10.2.2.2.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Cancel data job API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.2. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 10.2.2.2.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The test simulator has functionality to initiate the unsubscribe data procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.2.5. 2) A data job exists in DUT and the dataJobId is known to the test simulator.

##### 10.2.2.2.3 Test methodology
10.2.2.2.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Consumer is ready and available to receive HTTP responses from the DUT. 10.2.2.2.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The test simulator as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to cancel a data job. Step 2. The DUT receives the HTTP request. Step 3. The DUT does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.5.3.3.1. b) The HTTP request is a DELETE operation. c) The dataJobID in the URI match the data job being deleted. d) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.2. Step 4. The DUT sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.2. Step 5. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP response is recorded. Step 6. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI confirms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.5.3. b) The HTTP response message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.2.

##### 10.2.2.2.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 6 validation has passed.

#### 10.2.2.3 Query data job (positive case)

##### 10.2.2.3.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the query data job API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.5 The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 10.2.2.3.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The test simulator has functionality to initiate the query data subscription procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.2.5. 2) A data job exists in the DUT and the dataJobId is known to the test simulator.

##### 10.2.2.3.3 Test methodology
10.2.2.3.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Consumer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 10.2.2.3.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The test simulator as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to query a data job. Step 2. The DUT receives the HTTP request. Step 3. The DUT does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.5.3. b) The HTTP request is a GET operation. c) The dataJobID in the URI match the data job being queried. d) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.5.1. Step 4. The DUT constructs the URI for the created resource and sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.5.1. Step 5. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP response is recorded. Step 6. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.5.3. b) The HTTP response message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.5.1.

##### 10.2.2.3.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 6 validation has passed.

#### 10.2.2.4 Query data job status (positive case)

##### 10.2.2.4.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the query data job status API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.6 The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 10.2.2.4.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The test simulator has functionality to initiate the query data subscription status procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.2.5. 2) A data job exists in the DUT and the dataJobId is known to the test simulator.

##### 10.2.2.4.3 Test methodology
10.2.2.4.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Consumer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 10.2.2.4.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The test simulator as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to query a data job status. Step 2. The DUT receives the HTTP request. Step 3. The DUT does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.5.4. b) The HTTP request is a GET operation. c) The dataJobID in the URI match the data job status being queried. d) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.6.1. Step 4. The DUT constructs the URI for the created resource and sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.6.1. Step 5. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP response is recorded. Step 6. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.5.4. b) The HTTP response message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.6.1.

##### 10.2.2.4.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 6 validation has passed.

#### 10.2.2.5 Query data job identifiers (positive case)

##### 10.2.2.5.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the query data job identifiers API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.7 The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 10.2.2.5.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The test simulator has functionality to initiate the query data subscription status procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.2.5. 2) A set of data jobs exists in the DUT.

##### 10.2.2.5.3 Test methodology
10.2.2.5.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Consumer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 10.2.2.5.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The test simulator as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to query a set of data job identifiers. Step 2. The DUT receives the HTTP request. Step 3. The DUT does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.5.2. b) The HTTP request is a GET operation. c) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.7.1. Step 4. The DUT constructs the URI for the created resource and sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.7.1. Step 5. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP response is recorded. Step 6. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.5.2. b) The HTTP response message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.7.1.

##### 10.2.2.5.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 6 validation has passed.

#### 10.2.2.6 Update data job (positive case)

##### 10.2.2.6.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Update data job API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.4. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 10.2.2.6.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The test simulator has functionality to initiate the Update data job procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.2.5. 2) A data job exists in the DUT and the dataJobId and DataJobInfo are known to the test simulator.

##### 10.2.2.6.3 Test methodology
10.2.2.6.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Producer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 10.2.2.6.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The test simulator as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to update a data job identified by the dataJobId and DataJobInfo. Step 2. The DUT receives the HTTP request. Step 3. The DUT does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.5.3. b) The HTTP request is a PUT operation. c) The dataJobId and DataJobInfo in the URI match the data job being updated d) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.4 Step 4. The DUT sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.5.3. Step 5. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP response is recorded. Step 6. The test simulator does the following validation: e) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.5.3. f) The HTTP response message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.4.

##### 10.2.2.6.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 6 validation has passed.

#### 10.2.2.7 Notify data availability (positive case)

##### 10.2.2.7.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Notify data availability API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.3.4.3. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 10.2.2.7.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The test simulator has functionality to initiate the Notify data availability procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.2.5. 2) A data subscription exists in the DUT.

##### 10.2.2.7.3 Test methodology
10.2.2.7.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Consumer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 10.2.2.7.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The DUT as an API producer initiates the sending of a HTTP POST request. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request is recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The HTTP request is a POST operation. b) The callback URI matches the URI provided in the data subscription.

##### 10.2.2.7.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

# 11 A1 related services test cases

## 11.1 Conformance test cases for rApp

### 11.1.1 General

#### 11.1.1.1 Device under test requirements
The rApp that acts as DUT in these test scenarios, the requirements on the DUT for these tests are that it can handle the A1 policy management service, and the purpose of the test scenarios is to validate that it conforms to the API Consumer functionality as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.

#### 11.1.1.2 Test simulator capabilities
The test simulator has the capabilities as required for a SMO/Non-RT RIC framework. In addition, it has the following capabilities:
- Recording of received HTTP requests and responses and analyzing them regarding conformance to the R1 service
definitions.
- Controlled initiation of procedures with configurable URIs and payload formulated and modified.
Validating messages and issuing of verdicts related to the procedures in the test cases and thereby enabling determination of the DUT’s conformance to the API Consumer functionality as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.

### 11.1.2 A1 policy management API as API Consumer test scenario

#### 11.1.2.1 Query A1 policy type identifiers (positive case)

##### 11.1.2.1.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the query A1 policy type identifiers API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.1.The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 11.1.2.1.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate the Query A1 policy type identifiers procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.3.2. 2) A set of A1 policy types exists in test simulator.

##### 11.1.2.1.3 Test methodology
11.1.2.1.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Producer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 11.1.2.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The DUT as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to query A1 policy type identifiers. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request is recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.1. b) The HTTP request is a GET operation. c) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.1. Step 4. The test simulator constructs the URI for the created resource and sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.5.2.

##### 11.1.2.1.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

#### 11.1.2.2 Query A1 policy type (positive case)

##### 11.1.2.2.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the query A1 policy type API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.2 The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 11.1.2.2.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate the query A1 policy type procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.3.2. 2) An A1 policy type exists in test simulator and the policyTypeId is known to the DUT.

##### 11.1.2.2.3 Test methodology
11.1.2.2.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Producer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 11.1.2.2.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The DUT as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to query an A1 policy type. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request is recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.2. b) The HTTP request is a GET operation. c) The policyTypeID in the URI match the A1 policy type being queried. The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.2. Step 4. The test simulator constructs the URI for the created resource and sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.5.3.

##### 11.1.2.2.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

#### 11.1.2.3 Query A1 policy identifiers (positive case)

##### 11.1.2.3.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the query A1 policy identifiers API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.3 The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 11.1.2.3.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate the query A1 policy identifiers procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.3.2. 2) A set of A1 policies exists in test simulator.

##### 11.1.2.3.3 Test methodology
11.1.2.3.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Producer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 11.1.2.3.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The DUT as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to query A1 policy identifiers. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request is recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.3. b) The HTTP request is a GET operation. c) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.3. Step 4. The test simulator constructs the URI for the created resource and sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.5.4.

##### 11.1.2.3.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

#### 11.1.2.4 Create A1 policy (positive case)

##### 11.1.2.4.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the create A1 policy API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.4. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 11.1.2.4.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate the create A1 policy procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.3.2. 2) The PolicyObjectInformation is known to the DUT.

##### 11.1.2.4.3 Test methodology
11.1.2.4.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Producer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 11.1.2.4.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The DUT as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to create an A1 policy. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request is recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.4. b) The HTTP request is a POST operation. c) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.4. Step 4. The test simulator constructs the URI for the created resource and sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.5.4.

##### 11.1.2.4.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

#### 11.1.2.5 Query A1 policy (positive case)

##### 11.1.2.5.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the query A1 policy API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.5 The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 11.1.2.5.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate the query A1 policy procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.3.2. 2) An A1 policy exists in test simulator and the policyId is known to the DUT.

##### 11.1.2.5.3 Test methodology
11.1.2.5.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Producer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 11.1.2.5.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The DUT as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to query an A1 policy. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request is recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.5. b) The HTTP request is a GET operation. c) The policyId in the URI match the A1 policy being queried. The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.5. Step 4. The test simulator constructs the URI for the created resource and sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.5.5.

##### 11.1.2.5.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

#### 11.1.2.6 Update A1 policy (positive case)

##### 11.1.2.6.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Update A1 policy API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.6. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 11.1.2.6.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate the Update A1 policy procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.3.2. 2) An A1 policy exists in test simulator and the policyId and PolicyObject are known to the DUT.

##### 11.1.2.6.3 Test methodology
11.1.2.6.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Producer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 11.1.2.6.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The DUT as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to update an A1 policy identified by the policyId and PolicyObject. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request is recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI confirms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.6. b) The HTTP request is a PUT operation. c) The policyId and PolicyObject in the URI match the A1 policy being updated d) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.6. Step 4. The test simulator updates the resource, and a representation of the updated resource shall be returned in the response body the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.5.5.

##### 11.1.2.6.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed

#### 11.1.2.7 Delete A1 policy (positive case)

##### 11.1.2.7.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Delete A1 policy API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.6. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 11.1.2.7.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate the Delete A1 policy procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.3.2. 2) An A1 policy exists in test simulator and the policyId is known to the DUT.

##### 11.1.2.7.3 Test methodology
11.1.2.7.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Producer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 11.1.2.7.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The DUT as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to delete an A1 policy. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request is recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.7. b) The HTTP request is a DELETE operation. c) The policyId in the URI match the A1 policy being deleted. The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.7. Step 4. The test simulator constructs the URI for the created resource and sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4] , clause 9.1.5.5.

##### 11.1.2.7.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

#### 11.1.2.8 Query A1 policy status (positive case)

##### 11.1.2.8.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the query A1 policy status API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.8 The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 11.1.2.8.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate the query A1 policy status procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.3.2. 2) An A1 policy exists in test simulator and the policyId is known to the DUT.

##### 11.1.2.8.3 Test methodology
11.1.2.8.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Producer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 11.1.2.8.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The DUT as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to query an A1 policy status. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request is recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.8. b) The HTTP request is a GET operation. c) The policyId in the URI match the A1 policy status being queried. d) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.8 . Step 4. The test simulator constructs the URI for the created resource and sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.5.6.

##### 11.1.2.8.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

#### 11.1.2.9 Subscribe A1 policy status (positive case)

##### 11.1.2.9.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the subscribe A1 policy status API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.9 The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 11.1.2.9.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate the subscribe A1 policy status procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.3.2. 2) The PolicyStatusSubscription is known to the DUT

##### 11.1.2.9.3 Test methodology
11.1.2.9.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Producer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 11.1.2.9.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The DUT as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to create an A1 policy status subscription. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request is recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.9. b) The HTTP request is a POST operation. c) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.9. Step 4. The test simulator constructs the URI for the created resource and sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.5.7.

##### 11.1.2.9.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

#### 11.1.2.10 Update A1 policy status subscription (positive case)

##### 11.1.2.10.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Update A1 policy status subscription API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.10. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 11.1.2.10.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate the Update A1 policy status subscription procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.3.2. 2) An A1 policy status subscription exists in test simulator and the subscriptionId and PolicyStatusSubscription are known to the DUT.

##### 11.1.2.10.3 Test methodology
11.1.2.10.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Producer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 11.1.2.10.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The DUT as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to update an A1 policy status subscription identified by the subscriptionId and PolicyStatusSubscription. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request is recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI confirms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.10. b) The HTTP request is a PUT operation. c) The subscriptionId and PolicyStatusSubscription in the URI match the status subscription being updated d) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.10. Step 4. The test simulator updates the resource, and a representation of the updated resource shall be returned in the response body the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.5.8.

##### 11.1.2.10.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed

#### 11.1.2.11 Query A1 policy status subscription (positive case)

##### 11.1.2.11.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the query A1 policy status subscription API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.11 The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 11.1.2.11.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate the query A1 policy status subscription procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.3.2. 2) An A1 policy status subscription exists in test simulator and the subscriptionId is known to the DUT.

##### 11.1.2.11.3 Test methodology
11.1.2.11.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Producer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 11.1.2.11.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The DUT as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to query an A1 policy status subscription. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request is recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.11. b) The HTTP request is a GET operation. c) The subscriptionId in the URI match the A1 policy status subscription being queried. d) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.11 . Step 4. The test simulator constructs the URI for the created resource and sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.5.8.

##### 11.1.2.11.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

#### 11.1.2.12 Unsubscribe A1 policy status (positive case)

##### 11.1.2.12.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Unsubscribe A1 policy status API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.12. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 11.1.2.12.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate the Unsubscribe A1 policy procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.3.2. 2) An A1 policy status subscription exists in test simulator and the subscriptionId is known to the DUT.

##### 11.1.2.12.3 Test methodology
11.1.2.12.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Producer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 11.1.2.12.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The DUT as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to delete an A1 policy status subscription. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request is recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.12. b) The HTTP request is a DELETE operation. c) The subscriptionId in the URI match the A1 policy status subscription being deleted. The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.12. Step 4. The test simulator constructs the URI for the created resource and sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.5.8.

##### 11.1.2.12.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

## 11.2 Conformance test cases for SMO/Non-RT RIC framework

### 11.2.1 General

#### 11.2.1.1 Device under test requirements
The SMO/Non-RT RIC framework that acts as DUT in these test scenarios, the requirements on the DUT for these tests are that it can handle the DME Data subscription service, and the purpose of the test scenarios is to validate that it conforms to the API Producer functionality as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.

#### 11.2.1.2 Test simulator capabilities
The test simulator has the capabilities as required for a rApp. In addition, it has the following capabilities:
- Recording of received HTTP requests and responses and analyzing them regarding conformance to the R1 service
definitions.
- Controlled initiation of procedures with configurable URIs and payload formulated and modified.
Validating messages and issuing of verdicts related to the procedures in the test cases and thereby enabling determination of the DUT’s conformance to the API Producer functionality as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.

### 11.2.2 A1 policy management API as API Producer test scenario

#### 11.2.2.1 Query A1 policy type identifiers (positive case)

##### 11.2.2.1.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the query A1 policy type identifiers API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.1. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 11.2.2.1.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The test simulator has functionality to initiate the Query A1 policy type identifiers procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.3.2. 2) A set of A1 policy types exists in the DUT.

##### 11.2.2.1.3 Test methodology
11.2.2.1.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Consumer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 11.2.2.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The test simulator as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to query a set of A1 policy type identifiers. Step 2. The DUT receives the HTTP request. Step 3. The DUT does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.1. b) The HTTP request is a GET operation. c) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.1. Step 4. The DUT constructs the URI for the created resource and sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.1. Step 5. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP response is recorded. Step 6. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.5.2. b) The HTTP response message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.1

##### 11.2.2.1.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 6 validation has passed.

#### 11.2.2.2 Query A1 policy type (positive case)

##### 11.2.2.2.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the query A1 policy type API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.2 The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 11.2.2.2.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate the query A1 policy type procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.3.2. 2) An A1 policy type exists in DUT and the policyTypeId is known to the test simulator.

##### 11.2.2.2.3 Test methodology
11.2.2.2.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Consumer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 11.2.2.2.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The test simulator as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to query an A1 policy type. Step 2. The DUT receives the HTTP request. Step 3. The DUT does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.5.3. b) The HTTP request is a GET operation. c) The policyTypeId in the URI match the A1 policy type being queried. The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.2. Step 4. The DUT constructs the URI for the created resource and sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.2. Step 5. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP response is recorded. Step 6. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.5.3. b) The HTTP response message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.2.

##### 11.2.2.2.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 6 validation has passed.

#### 11.2.2.3 Query A1 policy identifiers (positive case)

##### 11.2.2.3.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the query A1 policy identifiers API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.3. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 11.2.2.3.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The test simulator has functionality to initiate the Query A1 policy identifiers procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.3.2. 2) A set of A1 policies exists in the DUT.

##### 11.2.2.3.3 Test methodology
11.2.2.3.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Consumer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 11.2.2.3.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The test simulator as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to query a set of A1 policy identifiers. Step 2. The DUT receives the HTTP request. Step 3. The DUT does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.5.4. b) The HTTP request is a GET operation. c) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.3. Step 4. The DUT constructs the URI for the created resource and sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.3. Step 5. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP response is recorded. Step 6. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.5.4. b) The HTTP response message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.3.

##### 11.2.2.3.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 6 validation has passed.

#### 11.2.2.4 Create A1 policy (positive case)

##### 11.2.2.4.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the create A1 policy API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.4. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 11.2.2.4.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The test simulator has functionality to initiate the create A1 policy procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.3.2. 2) The PolicyObjectInformation is known to the test simulator

##### 11.2.2.4.3 Test methodology
11.2.2.4.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Consumer is ready and available to receive HTTP responses from the DUT. 11.2.2.4.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The test simulator as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to create an A1 policy. Step 2. The DUT receives the HTTP request. Step 3. The DUT does the following validation: a) The HTTP request is a POST request. b) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.5.4 c) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.4. Step 4. The DUT generates the A1 policy and constructs the URI for the created resource. Step 5. The DUT sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.4. Step 6. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP response is recorded. Step 7. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The HTTP response message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.4, and the Location header will be present. b) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.5.4.

##### 11.2.2.4.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 7 validation has passed.

#### 11.2.2.5 Query A1 policy (positive case)

##### 11.2.2.5.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the query A1 policy API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.5 The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 11.2.2.5.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The test simulator has functionality to initiate the query A1 policy procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.3.2. 2) An A1 policy exists in DUT and the policyId is known to the test simulator.

##### 11.2.2.5.3 Test methodology
11.2.2.5.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Consumer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 11.2.2.5.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The test simulator as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to query an A1 policy. Step 2. The DUT receives the HTTP request. Step 3. The DUT does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.5.5. b) The HTTP request is a GET operation. c) The policyId in the URI match the A1 policy being queried. d) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.5. Step 4. The DUT constructs the URI for the created resource and sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.5. Step 5. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP response is recorded. Step 6. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.5.5 b) The HTTP response message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.5.

##### 11.2.2.5.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 6 validation has passed.

#### 11.2.2.6 Update A1 policy (positive case)

##### 11.2.2.6.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Update A1 policy API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.6. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 11.2.2.6.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The test simulator has functionality to initiate the Update A1 policy procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.3.2. 2) An A1 policy exists in the DUT and the policyId and PolicyObject are known to the test simulator.

##### 11.2.2.6.3 Test methodology
11.2.2.6.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Consumer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 11.2.2.6.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The test simulator as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to update an A1 policy identified by the policyId and PolicyObject. Step 2. The DUT receives the HTTP request. Step 3. The DUT does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.5.5. b) The HTTP request is a PUT operation. c) The policyId and PolicyObject in the URI match the A1 policy being updated d) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.6 Step 4. The DUT sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.6. Step 5. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP response is recorded. Step 6. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.5.5. b) The HTTP response message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.6.

##### 11.2.2.6.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 6 validation has passed.

#### 11.2.2.7 Delete A1 policy (positive case)

##### 11.2.2.7.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Delete A1 policy API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.6. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 11.2.2.7.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The test simulator has functionality to initiate the Delete A1 policy procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.3.2. 2) An A1 policy exists in DUT and the policyId is known to the test simulator.

##### 11.2.2.7.3 Test methodology
11.2.2.7.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Consumer is ready and available to receive HTTP responses from the DUT. 11.2.2.7.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The test simulator as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to Delete an A1 policy Step 2. The DUT receives the HTTP request. Step 3. The DUT does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.5.5. b) The HTTP request is a DELETE operation. c) The policyID in the URI match the A1 policy being deleted. d) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.7 Step 4. The DUT sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.7. Step 5. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP response is recorded. Step 6. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI confirms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.5.5. b) The HTTP response message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.7

##### 11.2.2.7.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 6 validation has passed.

#### 11.2.2.8 Query A1 policy status (positive case)

##### 11.2.2.8.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the query A1 policy status API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.8 The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 11.2.2.8.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate the query A1 policy procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.3.2. 2) An A1 policy exists in DUT and the policyId is known to the test simulator.

##### 11.2.2.8.3 Test methodology
11.2.2.8.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Consumer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 11.2.2.8.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The test simulator as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to query an A1 policy status. Step 2. The DUT receives the HTTP request. Step 3. The DUT does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.5.36 b) The HTTP request is a GET operation. c) The policyId in the URI match the A1 policy status being queried. d) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.8. Step 4. The DUT constructs the URI for the created resource and sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.8. Step 5. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP response is recorded. Step 6. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.5.6. b) The HTTP response message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.8.

##### 11.2.2.8.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 6 validation has passed.

#### 11.2.2.9 Subscribe A1 policy status (positive case)

##### 11.2.2.9.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the subscribe A1 policy status API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.9 The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 11.2.2.9.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The test simulator has functionality to initiate the subscribe A1 policy status procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.3.2. 2) The PolicyStatusSubscription is known to the test simulator

##### 11.2.2.9.3 Test methodology
11.2.2.9.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Consumer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 11.2.2.9.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The test simulator as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to create an A1 policy status subscription. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request is recorded. Step 3. The DUT does the following validation: a) The HTTP request is a POST request. b) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.5.7 c) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.9. Step 4. The DUT generates the A1 policy status subscription and constructs the URI for the created resource. Step 5. The DUT sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.9. Step 6. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP response is recorded. Step 7. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The HTTP response message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.9, and the Location header will be present. b) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.5.7.

##### 11.2.2.9.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 7 validation has passed.

#### 11.2.2.10 Update A1 policy status subscription (positive case)

##### 11.2.2.10.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Update A1 policy status subscription API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.10. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 11.2.2.10.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The test simulator has functionality to initiate the Update A1 policy status subscription procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.3.2. 2) An A1 policy status subscription exists in the DUT and the subscriptionId and PolicyStatusSubscription are known to the test simulator.

##### 11.2.2.10.3 Test methodology
11.2.2.10.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Consumer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 11.2.2.10.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The test simulator as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to update an A1 policy status subscription identified by the subscriptionId and PolicyStatusSubscription. Step 2. The DUT receives the HTTP request. Step 3. The DUT does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.5.8. b) The HTTP request is a PUT operation. c) The subscriptionId and PolicyStatusSubscription in the URI match the A1 policy status subscription being updated d) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.10 Step 4. The DUT sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.10. Step 5. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP response is recorded. Step 6. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.5.8. b) The HTTP response message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.10.

##### 11.2.2.10.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 6 validation has passed

#### 11.2.2.11 Query A1 policy status subscription (positive case)

##### 11.2.2.11.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the query A1 policy status subscription API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.11 The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 11.2.2.11.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate the query A1 policy status subscription procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.3.2. 2) An A1 policy status subscription exists in test simulator and the subscriptionId is known to the DUT.

##### 11.2.2.11.3 Test methodology
11.2.2.11.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Consumer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 11.2.2.11.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The test simulator as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to query an A1 policy status subscription. Step 2. The DUT receives the HTTP request. Step 3. The DUT does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.5.8 . b) The HTTP request is a GET operation. c) The subscriptionId in the URI match the A1 policy status subscription being queried. d) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.11. Step 4. The DUT constructs the URI for the created resource and sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.5. Step 5. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP response is recorded. Step 6. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.5.8 b) The HTTP response message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.11.

##### 11.2.2.11.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 6 validation has passed.

#### 11.2.2.12 Unsubscribe A1 policy status (positive case)

##### 11.2.2.12.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Unsubscribe A1 policy status API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.12. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 11.2.2.12.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate the Unsubscribe A1 policy procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.3.2. 2) An A1 policy subscription exists in DUT and the subscriptionId is known to the test simulator.

##### 11.2.2.12.3 Test methodology
11.2.2.12.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Consumer is ready and available to receive HTTP responses from the DUT. 11.2.2.12.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The test simulator as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to delete an A1 policy status subscription Step 2. The DUT receives the HTTP request. Step 3. The DUT does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.5.8. b) The HTTP request is a DELETE operation. c) The subscriptionId in the URI match the A1 policy status subscription being deleted. d) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.12. Step 4. The DUT sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.12. Step 5. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP response is recorded. Step 6. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI confirms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.5.8. b) The HTTP response message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.12.

##### 11.2.2.12.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 6 validation has passed.

#### 11.2.2.13 Notify A1 policy status changes (positive case)

##### 11.2.2.13.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Notify A1 policy status changes API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 9.1.4.13. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 11.2.2.13.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The test simulator has functionality to initiate the Notify A1 policy status changes procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.3.2. 2) An A1 policy status exists in the DUT.

##### 11.2.2.13.3 Test methodology
11.2.2.13.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Consumer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 11.2.2.13.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The DUT as an API producer initiates the sending of a HTTP POST request. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request is recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The HTTP request is a POST operation. b) The callback URI matches the URI provided in the A1 policy status subscription.

##### 11.2.2.13.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

# 12 DME Data discovery services test cases

## 12.1 Conformance test cases for rApp

### 12.1.1 General

#### 12.1.1.1 Device under test requirements
The rApp that acts as Device Under Test (DUT) in these test scenarios, the requirements on the DUT for these tests are that it can handle the data discovery service, and the purpose of the test scenarios is to validate that it conforms to the data discovery API specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.2.4.

#### 12.1.1.2 Test simulator capabilities
The test simulator has the capabilities as required for a SMO/Non-RT RIC framework. In addition, it has the following capabilities:
- Recording of received HTTP requests and responses and analyzing them regarding conformance to the R1 service
definitions.
- Controlled initiation of procedures with configurable URIs and payload formulated and modified.
Validating messages and issuing of verdicts related to the procedures in the test cases and thereby enabling determination of the DUT’s conformance API Producer functionality as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.2.4.

### 12.1.2 Data discover API as API Consumer test scenario

#### 12.1.2.1 Discover DME types (positive case)

##### 12.1.2.1.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Discover DME types operation as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.2.4.1. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 12.1.2.1.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate the Discover DME types procedure. 2) A set of DMETypeRelatedCapabilities exist in the test simulator.

##### 12.1.2.1.3 Test methodology
12.1.2.1.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The test simulator as API Producer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 12.1.2.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The DUT as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to Discover DME types. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request is recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI confirms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.2.5.2. b) The HTTP request is a GET operation. c) The message body is empty. Step 4. The test simulator generated the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.2.5.2.3.1
> NOTE: Presence or validation of optional filter parameters is not used to determine validation on this test.

##### 12.1.2.1.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

#### 12.1.3.1 Query capabilities related to DME type (positive case)

##### 12.1.3.1.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Query capabilities related to DME type operation as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.2.4.2. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 12.1.3.1.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate the Query DME type information procedure. 2) A set of service DMETypeRelatedCapabilities exist in the test simulator.

##### 12.1.3.1.3 Test methodology
12.1.3.1.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The test simulator as API Producer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 12.1.3.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The DUT as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to query for information about a specific DME type with dmeTypeId. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request is recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI confirms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.2.5.3. b) The HTTP request is a GET operation. c) The message body is empty. Step 4. The test simulator generated the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.2.5.3.3.1

##### 12.1.3.1.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

## 12.2 Conformance test cases for SMO/Non-RT RIC framework

### 12.2.1 General

#### 12.2.1.1 Device under test requirements
The SMO/Non-RT RIC framework that acts as Device Under Test (DUT) in these test scenarios, the requirements on the DUT for these tests are that it can handle the SME service discovery service, and the purpose of the test scenarios is to validate that it conforms to the Data discovery API specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.2.4.

#### 12.2.1.2 Test simulator capabilities
The test simulator has the capabilities as specified in section 4.3.2. In addition, it has the following capabilities: 1) Recording of received HTTP requests and responses and analyzing them regarding conformance to the R1 service definitions. 2) Controlled initiation of procedures with configurable URIs and payload formulated and modified. Validating messages and issuing of verdicts related to the procedures in the test cases and thereby enabling determination of the DUT’s conformance to API Producer functionality as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.2.4. 12.2.2 data discovery API as API Producer test scenario

#### 12.2.2.1 Discover DME types (positive case)

##### 12.2.2.1.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Data discovery APIs as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.2. The expected outcome is successful validation of the response from the DUT.

##### 12.2.2.1.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT supports the functionality to Discover DME types procedure. 2) A set of DMETypeRelatedCapabilities are supported in the test simulator.

##### 12.2.2.1.3 Test methodology
12.2.2.1.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Consumer is ready and available to receive HTTP responses from the DUT. 12.2.2.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The test simulator as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to Data discovery APIs for all dme types . Step 2. The DUT receives the HTTP request. Step 3. The DUT does the following validation: a) The HTTP request is a GET request. b) The URI conforms to the format as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.2.5.2 c) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP[4], clause 7.2.5.2.3.1. Step 4. The DUT initiates a HTTP Response. Step 5. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP response is recorded. Step 6. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.2.5.2. b) The HTTP response message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.2.5.2.3.1.

##### 12.2.2.1.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 6 validation has passed.

#### 12.2.3.1 Query capabilities related to DME type (positive case)

##### 12.2.3.1.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Data discovery APIs as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.2. The expected outcome is successful validation of the response from the DUT.

##### 12.2.3.1.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT supports the functionality to Discover DME types procedure. 2) A set of DMETypeRelatedCapabilities are supported in the test simulator.

##### 12.2.3.1.3 Test methodology
12.2.3.1.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Consumer is ready and available to receive HTTP responses from the DUT. 12.2.3.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The test simulator as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to Data discovery APIs for all dme type with dmeTypeId . Step 2. The DUT receives the HTTP request. Step 3. The DUT does the following validation: a) The HTTP request is a GET request. b) The URI conforms to the format as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.2.5.3 c) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.2.5.3.3.1. Step 4. The DUT initiates a HTTP Response. Step 5. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP response is recorded. Step 6. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.2.5.3. b) The HTTP response message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.2.5.3.3.1.

##### 12.2.3.1.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 6 validation has passed. 13. DME Data offer service test cases

## 13.1 Conformance test cases for rApp

### 13.1.1 General

#### 13.1.1.1 Device under test requirements
The rApp that acts as DUT in these test scenarios, the requirements on the DUT for these tests are that it can handle the DME Data offer service, and the purpose of the test scenarios is to validate that it conforms to the API Consumer functionality as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.6.4.

#### 13.1.1.2 Test simulator capabilities
The test simulator has the capabilities as required for a SMO/Non-RT RIC framework. In addition, it has the following capabilities:
- Recording of received HTTP requests and responses and analyzing them regarding conformance to the R1 service
definitions.
- Controlled initiation of procedures with configurable URIs and payload formulated and modified.
Validating messages and issuing of verdicts related to the procedures in the test cases and thereby enabling determination of the DUT’s conformance to the API Consumer functionality as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.6.4.

### 13.1.2 Data offer API as API Consumer test scenario

#### 13.1.2.1 Create data offer (positive case)

##### 13.1.2.1.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the create data offer API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.6.4.1. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 13.1.2.1.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate the create data offer procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.2.7. 2) The DataOfferInfo is known to the DUT

##### 13.1.2.1.3 Test methodology
13.1.2.1.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Producer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 13.1.2.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The DUT as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to create a data offer. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request is recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.6.4.1. b) The HTTP request is a POST operation. c) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.6.4.1. Step 4. The test simulator constructs the URI for the created resource and sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.6.4.1.1.

##### 13.1.2.1.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

#### 13.1.2.2 Cancel data offer (positive case)

##### 13.1.2.2.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Cancel data offer API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.6.4.2. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 13.1.2.2.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate the terminate data offer procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.2.7. 2) A data offer exists in test simulator and the dataOfferId is known to the DUT.

##### 13.1.2.2.3 Test methodology
13.1.2.2.3.1 Initial conditions 1. The test simulator as API Producer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 2. The dataOfferId exists in the test simulator. 13.1.2.2.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The DUT as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to cancel a data offer. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request is recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.6.5.3. b) The HTTP request is a DELETE operation. c) The dataOfferId in the URI matches the data offer being deleted. d) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.6.4.2. Step 4. The test simulator generates and sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP[4], clause 7.6.4.2.1.

##### 13.1.2.2.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

## 13.2 Conformance test cases for SMO/Non-RT RIC framework

### 13.2.1 General

#### 13.2.1.1 Device under test requirements
The SMO/Non-RT RIC framework that acts as DUT in these test scenarios, the requirements on the DUT for these tests are that it can handle the DME Data offer service, and the purpose of the test scenarios is to validate that it conforms to the API Producer functionality as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.6.4.

#### 13.2.1.2 Test simulator capabilities
The test simulator has the capabilities as required for a rApp. In addition, it has the following capabilities:
- Recording of received HTTP requests and responses and analyzing them regarding conformance to the R1 service
definitions.
- Controlled initiation of procedures with configurable URIs and payload formulated and modified.
Validating messages and issuing of verdicts related to the procedures in the test cases and thereby enabling determination of the DUT’s conformance to the API Producer functionality as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.6.4.

### 13.2.2 Data offer API as API Producer test scenario

#### 13.2.2.1 Create data offer (positive case)

##### 13.2.2.1.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the create data offer API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.6.4.1. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 13.2.2.1.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The test simulator has functionality to initiate the create data offer procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.2.7.

##### 13.2.2.1.3 Test methodology
13.2.2.1.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Consumer is ready and available to receive HTTP responses from the DUT. 13.2.2.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The test simulator as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to create a data offer. Step 2. The DUT receives the HTTP request. Step 3. The DUT does the following validation: a) The HTTP request is a POST request. b) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.6.5.2.3.1. c) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.6.4.1. Step 4. The DUT generates the data offer and constructs the URI for the created resource. Step 5. The DUT sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.6.4.1. Step 6. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP response is recorded. Step 7. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The HTTP response message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.6.4.1, and the Location header will be present. b) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.6.5.3.

##### 13.2.2.1.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 7 validation has passed.

#### 13.2.2.2 Cancel data offer (positive case)

##### 13.2.2.2.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Cancel data offer API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.6.4.2. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 13.2.2.2.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The test simulator has functionality to initiate the cancel data request procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.2.7. 2) A data offer exists in DUT and the dataOfferId is known to the test simulator.

##### 13.2.2.2.3 Test methodology
13.2.2.2.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The test simulator as API Consumer is ready and available to receive HTTP responses from the DUT. 2) The dataOfferId is known to the DUT 13.2.2.2.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The test simulator as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to cancel a data offer. Step 2. The DUT receives the HTTP request. Step 3. The DUT does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.6.5.3.3.1. b) The HTTP request is a DELETE operation. c) The dataOfferId in the URI match the data offer being deleted. d) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.6.4.2. Step 4. The DUT sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.6.4.2. Step 5. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP response is recorded. Step 6. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI confirms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.6.5.3. b) The HTTP response message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.6.4.2.

##### 13.2.2.2.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 6 validation has passed.

#### 13.2.2.3 Notify data offer termination (positive case)

##### 13.2.2.3.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Notify data offer termination API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.6.4.3. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 13.2.2.3.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The test simulator has functionality to initiate the Notify data offer termination procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.2.7. 2) A data offer exists in the DUT.

##### 13.2.2.3.3 Test methodology
13.2.2.3.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Consumer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 13.2.2.3.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The DUT as an API producer initiates the sending of a HTTP POST request. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request is recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The HTTP request is a POST operation. b) The callback URI matches the URI provided in the data offer. Step 4. The test simulator sends the HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 7.6.4.3.

##### 13.2.2.3.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed. 14. SME Boot strap service test cases

## 14.1 Conformance test cases for rApp

### 14.1.1 General

#### 14.1.1.1 Device under test requirements
The rApp that acts as Device Under Test (DUT) in these test scenarios, the requirements on the DUT for these tests are that it can handle the Bootstrap service, and the purpose of the test scenarios is to validate that it confirms API Consumer functionality as specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.4.4.

#### 14.1.1.2 Test simulator capabilities
The test simulator has the capabilities as required for a SMO/Non-RT RIC framework. In addition, it has the following capabilities:
- Recording of received HTTP requests and responses and analyzing them regarding conformance to the R1 service
definitions.
- Controlled initiation of procedures with configurable URIs and payload formulated and modified.
Validating messages and issuing of verdicts related to the procedures in the test cases and thereby enabling determination of the DUT’s conformance API Producer functionality as specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.4.4.

### 14.1.2 Bootstrap API as API Consumer test scenario

#### 14.1.2.1 Query bootstrap information (positive case)

##### 14.1.2.1.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Bootstrap APIs operation as specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.4.4.1. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 14.1.2.1.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate the Discover bootstrap procedure. 2) A BootstrapInformation exist in the test simulator.

##### 14.1.2.1.3 Test methodology
14.1.2.1.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The test simulator as API Producer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 14.1.2.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The DUT as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to BootstrapAPIs. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request is recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI confirms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.4.5.2. b) The HTTP request is a GET operation. c) The message body is empty. Step 4. The test simulator generated the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.4.5.2.3.1.
> NOTE: Presence or validation of optional filter parameters is not used to determine validation on this test.

##### 14.1.2.1.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

## 14.2 Conformance test cases for SMO/Non-RT RIC framework

### 14.2.1 General

#### 14.2.1.1 Device under test requirements
The SMO/Non-RT RIC framework that acts as Device Under Test (DUT) in these test scenarios, the requirements on the DUT for these tests are that it can handle the Bootstrap service, and the purpose of the test scenarios is to validate that it conforms to the Bootstrap API specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.4.4.

#### 14.2.1.2 Test simulator capabilities
The test simulator has the capabilities as specified in section 4.3.2. In addition, it has the following capabilities: 1) Recording of received HTTP requests and responses and analyzing them regarding conformance to the R1 service definitions. 2) Controlled initiation of procedures with configurable URIs and payload formulated and modified. Validating messages and issuing of verdicts related to the procedures in the test cases and thereby enabling determination of the DUT’s conformance to API Producer functionality as specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.4.4.

### 14.2.2 Bootstrap API as API Producer test scenario

#### 14.2.2.1 Query bootstrap information (positive case)

##### 14.2.2.1.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Bootstrap APIs as specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.4.4.1. The expected outcome is successful validation of the response from the DUT.

##### 14.2.2.1.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate the Discover bootstrap procedure. 2) A BootstrapInformation exist in the test simulator.

##### 14.2.2.1.3 Test methodology
14.2.2.1.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Consumer is ready and available to receive HTTP responses from the DUT. 14.2.2.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The test simulator as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to Bootstrap API for bootstrap information. Step 2. The DUT receives the HTTP request. Step 3. The DUT does the following validation: a) The HTTP request is a GET request. b) The URI conforms to the format as specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.2.5.2. c) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.2.5.2. Step 4. The DUT initiates a HTTP Response. Step 5. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP response is recorded. Step 6. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 6.2.5.2. b) The HTTP response message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause. 6.2.5.2.

##### 14.2.2.1.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 6 validation has passed. 15. AI/ML workflow AI/ML model registration API test cases

## 15.1 Conformance test cases for rApp

### 15.1.1 General

#### 15.1.1.1 Device under test requirements
The rApp that acts as DUT in these test scenarios, the requirements on the DUT for these tests are that it can handle the AI/ML model registration service, and the purpose of the test scenarios is to validate that it conforms to the API Consumer functionality as specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.1.4.

#### 15.1.1.2 Test simulator capabilities
The test simulator has the capabilities as required for a SMO/Non-RT RIC framework. In addition, it has the following capabilities:
- Recording of received HTTP requests and responses and analyzing them regarding conformance to the R1 service
definitions.
- Controlled initiation of procedures with configurable URIs and payload formulated and modified.
Validating messages and issuing of verdicts related to the procedures in the test cases and thereby enabling determination of the DUT’s conformance to the API Consumer functionality as specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.1.4.

### 15.1.2 AI/ML model registration API as API consumer test scenario

#### 15.1.2.1 Register model information (positive case)

##### 15.1.2.1.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Register AI/ML model information in AI/ML model registration API as specified in R1AP [4], clause10.1. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 15.1.2.1.2 Test entrance criteria
The DUT has functionality to initiate the Register AI/ML model procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.6.2.
> NOTE: The DUT provides the ModelRelatedInformation as defined in R1AP [4], clause 10.1.4.

##### 15.1.2.1.3 Test methodology
15.1.2.1.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Producer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 15.1.2.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The DUT as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to register an AI/ML model by providing ModelRelatedInformation. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request is recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI confirms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.1.5.2.2. b) The HTTP request is a POST operation. c) The HTTP request message content includes ModelRelatedInformation as specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.1.4. Step 4. The test simulator generates the registrationId and constructs the URI for the created resource and sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.1.5.2.3.1.

##### 15.1.2.1.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

#### 15.1.2.2 Deregister model information (positive case)

##### 15.1.2.2.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Deregister the registered model information in AI/ML model registration API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.1.4. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 15.1.2.2.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate the Deregister AI/ML model procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.6.2.2. 2) A ModelRelatedInformation exists in test simulator and the registrationId is known to the DUT.

##### 15.1.2.2.3 Test methodology
15.1.2.2.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Producer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 15.1.2.2.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The DUT as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to Deregister an AI/ML model information. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request is recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.1.5.3.2. b) The HTTP request is a DELETE operation. c) The registrationId in the URI match the ModelRelatedInformation being deregistered. d) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.1.5.3.3. Step 4. The test simulator generated the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.1.5.3.3

##### 15.1.2.2.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

#### 15.1.2.3 Query model information (positive case)

##### 15.1.2.3.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Query model registration information in AI/ML model registration API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.1.4.4. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 15.1.2.3.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate the query AI/ML model registration procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.6.2.2. 2) A ModelRelatedInformation exists in test simulator and the registrationId is known to the DUT.

##### 15.1.2.3.3 Test methodology
15.1.2.3.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Producer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 15.1.2.3.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The DUT as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to query a ModelRelatedInformation. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request is recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.1.5.3.2. b) The HTTP request is a GET operation. c) The registrationId in the URI match the AI/ML model being queried. d) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.1.5.3.3. Step 4. The test simulator generated the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.1.5.3.3.

##### 15.1.2.3.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

#### 15.1.2.4 Update model information (positive case)

##### 15.1.2.4.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Update registered model information in AI/ML model API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.1.4.3. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 15.1.2.4.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate the Update AI/ML model registration procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.6.2.2. 2) An AI/Ml model exists in test simulator and the registrationId and ModelRelatedInformation are known to the DUT.

##### 15.1.2.4.3 Test methodology
15.1.2.4.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Producer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 15.1.2.4.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The DUT as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to update a registered AI/ML model identified by the registrationId and ModelRelatedInformation. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request is recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI confirms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.1.5.3.2. b) The HTTP request is a PUT operation. c) The registrationId and ModelRelatedInformation in the URI match the AI/Ml model being updated. d) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.1.5.3.3. Step 4. The test simulator updates the resource, and a representation of the updated resource shall be returned in the response body the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.1.5.3.3.

##### 15.1.2.4.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

## 15.2 Conformance test cases for SMO/Non-RT RIC framework

### 15.2.1 General

#### 15.2.1.1 Device under test requirements
The SMO/Non-RT RIC framework that acts as DUT in these test scenarios, the requirements on the DUT for these tests are that it can handle the AI/ML model registration service, and the purpose of the test scenarios is to validate that it conforms to the API Producer functionality as specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.1.4.

#### 15.2.1.2 Test simulator capabilities
The test simulator has the capabilities as required for a rApp. In addition, it has the following capabilities:
- Recording of received HTTP requests and responses and analyzing them regarding conformance to the R1 service
definitions.
- Controlled initiation of procedures with configurable URIs and payload formulated and modified.
Validating messages and issuing of verdicts related to the procedures in the test cases and thereby enabling determination of the DUT’s conformance to the API Producer functionality as specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.1.4.

### 15.2.2 AI/ML model registration API as API Producer test scenario

#### 15.2.2.1 Register model information (positive case)

##### 15.2.2.1.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Register AI/ML model information in AI/ML model registration API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.1.4. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 15.2.2.1.2 Test entrance criteria
The test simulator has functionality to initiate the Register AI/ML model procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.6.2.

##### 15.2.2.1.3 Test methodology
15.2.2.1.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Consumer is ready and available to receive HTTP responses from the DUT. 15.2.2.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The test simulator as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to register a ModelRelatedInformation. Step 2. The DUT receives the HTTP request. Step 3. The DUT does the following validation: a) The HTTP request is a POST request. b) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.1.5.2.2. c) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.1.5.2.3.1. Step 4. The DUT generates the registrationId and constructs the URI for the created resource. Step 5. The DUT sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.1.5.2.3.1. Step 6. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP response is recorded. Step 7. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The HTTP response message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.1.5.2.3.1, and the Location header will be present. b) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.1.5.2.2.

##### 15.2.2.1.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 7 validation has passed.

#### 15.2.2.2 Deregister model information (positive case)

##### 15.2.2.2.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Deregister registered AI/ML model information in AI/ML model registration API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.1.4. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 15.2.2.2.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The test simulator has functionality to initiate the AI/ML model procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.6.2.2. 2) A ModelRelatedInformation exists in test simulator and the registrationId is known to the DUT.

##### 15.2.2.2.3 Test methodology
15.2.2.2.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Consumer is ready and available to receive HTTP responses from the DUT. 15.2.2.2.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The test simulator as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to Deregister an AI/ML model information. Step 2. The DUT receives the HTTP request. Step 3. The DUT does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.1.5.3.2. b) The HTTP request is a DELETE operation. c) The registrationId in the URI match the ModelRelatedInformation being deregistered. d) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.1.5.3.3. Step 4. The DUT sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.1.5.3.3. Step 5. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP response is recorded. Step 6. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI confirms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.1.5.3.2. b) The HTTP response message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.1.5.3.3.

##### 15.2.2.2.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 6 validation has passed.

#### 15.2.2.3 Query model information (positive case)

##### 15.2.2.3.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Query model registration information in AI/ML model registration API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.1.4.4. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 15.2.2.3.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The test simulator has functionality to initiate the query AI/ML model registration procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.6.2.2. 2) A ModelRelatedInformation exists in test simulator and the registrationId is known to the DUT.

##### 15.2.2.3.3 Test methodology
15.2.2.3.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Consumer is ready and available to receive HTTP responses from the DUT. 15.2.2.3.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The test simulator as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to query a ModelRelatedInformation. Step 2. The DUT receives the HTTP request. Step 3. The DUT does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.1.5.3.2. b) The HTTP request is a GET operation. c) The registrationId in the URI match the AI/ML model being queried. d) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.1.5.3.3. Step 4. The DUT sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.1.5.3.3. Step 5. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP response is recorded. Step 6. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.1.5.3.2. b) The HTTP response message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.1.5.3.3.

##### 15.2.2.3.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 6 validation has passed.

#### 15.2.2.4 Update model information (positive case)

##### 15.2.2.4.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Update registered model information in AI/ML model API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.1.4.3. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 15.2.2.4.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The test simulator has functionality to initiate the Update AI/ML model registration procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.6.2.2 2) An AI/ML model exists in test simulator and the registrationId and ModelRelatedInformation are known to the DUT.

##### 15.2.2.4.3 Test methodology
15.2.2.4.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Consumer is ready and available to receive HTTP responses from the DUT. 15.2.2.4.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The test simulator as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to update an AI/ML model information identified by the registrationId and ModelRelatedInformation. Step 2. The DUT receives the HTTP request. Step 3. The DUT does the following validation: a) The HTTP request is a PUT request. b) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.1.5.3.2. c) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.1.5.3.3. Step 4. The DUT generates the registrationId and constructs the URI for the created resource. Step 5. The DUT sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.1.5.3.3. Step 6. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP response is recorded. Step 7. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The HTTP response message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.1.5.3.3. b) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.1.5.3.2.

##### 15.2.2.4.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 7 validation has passed. 16. AI/ML workflow AI/ML model discovery API test cases

## 16.1 Conformance test cases for rApp

### 16.1.1 General

#### 16.1.1.1 Device under test requirements
The rApp that acts as Device Under Test (DUT) in these test scenarios, the requirements on the DUT for these tests are that it can handle the AI/ML model discovery service, and the purpose of the test scenarios is to validate that it conforms to the AI/ML model discovery API specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.2.4.

#### 16.1.1.2 Test simulator capabilities
The test simulator has the capabilities as required for a SMO/Non-RT RIC framework. In addition, it has the following capabilities:
- Recording of received HTTP requests and responses and analyzing them regarding conformance to the R1 service
definitions.
- Controlled initiation of procedures with configurable URIs and payload formulated and modified.
Validating messages and issuing of verdicts related to the procedures in the test cases and thereby enabling determination of the DUT’s conformance API Producer functionality as specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.2.4.

### 16.1.2 AI/ML model discovery API as API Consumer test scenario

#### 16.1.2.1 Discover AI/ML models (positive case)

##### 16.1.2.1.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Discover registered AI/ML models as specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.2.4.1. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 16.1.2.1.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate the Discover AI/ML model procedure. 2) A set of ModelRelatedInformation exist in the test simulator.

##### 16.1.2.1.3 Test methodology
16.1.2.1.3.1 Initial conditions 1) The test simulator as API Producer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 16.1.2.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The DUT as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to Discover registered AI/ML models. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request is recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI confirms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.2.5.2.2. b) The HTTP request is a GET operation. c) The message body is empty. Step 4. The test simulator generated the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.2.5.2.3.1
> NOTE: Presence or validation of optional filter parameters is not used to determine validation on this test.

##### 16.1.2.1.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

## 16.2 Conformance test cases for SMO/Non-RT RIC framework

### 16.2.1 General

#### 16.2.1.1 Device under test requirements
The SMO/Non-RT RIC framework that acts as Device Under Test (DUT) in these test scenarios, the requirements on the DUT for these tests are that it can handle the AI/ML model discovery service, and the purpose of the test scenarios is to validate that it conforms to the AI/ML model discovery API specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.2.4.

#### 16.2.1.2 Test simulator capabilities
The test simulator has the capabilities as specified in section 4.3.2. In addition, it has the following capabilities: 1) Recording of received HTTP requests and responses and analyzing them regarding conformance to the R1 service definitions. 2) Controlled initiation of procedures with configurable URIs and payload formulated and modified. Validating messages and issuing of verdicts related to the procedures in the test cases and thereby enabling determination of the DUT’s conformance to API Producer functionality as specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.2.4.

### 16.2.2 AI/ML model discovery API as API Producer test scenario

#### 16.2.2.1 Discover AI/ML models (positive case)

##### 16.2.2.1.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the AI/ML model discovery APIs as specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.2.4. The expected outcome is successful validation of the response from the DUT.

##### 16.2.2.1.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT supports the functionality to Discover AI/ML model procedure. 2) A set of ModelRelatedInformation are supported in the test simulator.

##### 16.2.2.1.3 Test methodology
16.2.2.1.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Consumer is ready and available to receive HTTP responses from the DUT. 16.2.2.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The test simulator as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to AI/ML model discovery APIs for registered AI/ML models. Step 2. The DUT receives the HTTP request. Step 3. The DUT does the following validation: a) The HTTP request is a GET request. b) The URI conforms to the format as specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.2.5.2.2 c) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.2.5.2.3.1. Step 4. The DUT initiates a HTTP Response. Step 5. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP response is recorded. Step 6. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.2.5.2.2. b) The HTTP response message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 10.2.5.2.3.1.

##### 16.2.2.1.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 6 validation has passed. 17. RAN OAM Configuration management service test cases

## 17.1 Conformance test cases for rApp

### 17.1.1 General

#### 17.1.1.1 Device under test requirements
The rApp that acts as DUT in these test scenarios, the requirements on the DUT for these tests are that it can handle the RAN OAM Configuration management service, and the purpose of the test scenarios is to validate that it conforms to the API Consumer functionality as specified in R1AP [4], clause 8.1.4.

#### 17.1.1.2 Test simulator capabilities
The test simulator has the capabilities as required for a SMO/Non-RT RIC framework. In addition, it has the following capabilities:
- Recording of received HTTP requests and responses and analyzing them regarding conformance to the R1 service
definitions.
- Controlled initiation of procedures with configurable URIs and payload formulated and modified.
Validating messages and issuing of verdicts related to the procedures in the test cases and thereby enabling determination of the DUT’s conformance to the API Consumer functionality as specified in R1AP [4], clause 8.1.4.

### 17.1.2 Configuration management API as API Consumer test scenario

#### 17.1.2.1 Read configuration data (positive case)

##### 17.1.2.1.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the read configuration data API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 8.1.4.1. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 17.1.2.1.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate the read configuration data procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.4.5. 2) A managed entity with configuration data exists in the test simulator and the URI parameter and className are known to the DUT

##### 17.1.2.1.3 Test methodology
17.1.2.1.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Producer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 17.1.2.1.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The DUT as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to read configuration data. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request is recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 8.1.4.1. b) The HTTP request is a GET operation. c) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 8.1.4.1. Step 4. The test simulator sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 8.1.4.1.1.

##### 17.1.2.1.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.

#### 17.1.2.2 Write configuration changes (positive case)

##### 17.1.2.2.1 Test description and applicability
The purpose of this test case is to test the Write configuration changes API as specified in R1AP [4], clause 8.1.4.2. The expected outcome is successful validation of the request from the DUT.

##### 17.1.2.2.2 Test entrance criteria
1) The DUT has functionality to initiate the write configuration procedure as defined in R1GAP [1], clause 5.4.5. 2) A managed entity with configuration data exists in the test simulator and the URI parameter and className are known to the DUT

##### 17.1.2.2.3 Test methodology
17.1.2.2.3.1 Initial conditions The test simulator as API Producer is ready and available to receive HTTP requests from the DUT. 17.1.2.2.3.2 Procedure Step 1. The DUT as an API Consumer initiates a HTTP request to write a configuration change identified by the URI parameter and className. Step 2. At the test simulator the contents of the received HTTP request is recorded. Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation: a) The URI conforms to the format specified in R1AP [4], clause 8.1.5.2. b) The HTTP request is a PATCH operation. c) The URI matches the configuration being changed. d) The HTTP request message content includes the information as specified in R1AP [4], clause 8.1.4.2. Step 4. The test simulator sends the appropriate HTTP response as specified in R1AP [4], clause 8.1.4.2.1.

##### 17.1.2.2.4 Expected result
The test is considered passed if Step 3 validation has passed.


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG2.TS.R1UCR-R004-v11.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG2.R1UCR-R004-v11.00 Technical Specification"
---

## 7.4 DME use case 4: Data request-Data Consumer rApp requests data for consumption from the DME functions.54

## 11.3 AI/ML workflow-related use case 3: AI/ML training – AI/ML workflow functions producing AI/ML training

## 11.7 AI/ML workflow-related use case 7: AI/ML model performance monitoring – AIML workflow functions

## 11.8 AI/ML workflow-related use case 8: AI/ML model performance monitoring – rApp consuming performance

## 11.10 AI/ML workflow-related use case 10: AI/ML model inference – AI/ML workflow functions producing AI/ML

## 11.12 AI/ML workflow-related use case 12: Query of AI/ML Model inference capabilities - AI/ML workflow
Foreword This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by WG2 of the O-RAN ALLIANCE. It is part of a TS-family covering the WG2: R1 Interface Specifications. The content of the present document is subject to continuing work within O-RAN and may change following formal O-RAN approval. Should the O-RAN ALLIANCE modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released by O-RAN with an identifying change of version date and an increase in version number as follows: version xx.yy.zz where: xx: the first digit-group is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc. (the initial approved document will have xx=01). Always 2 digits with leading zero if needed. yy: the second digit-group is incremented when editorial only changes have been incorporated in the document. Always 2 digits with leading zero if needed. zz: the third digit-group included only in working versions of the document indicating incremental changes during the editing process. External versions never include the third digit-group. Always 2 digits with leading zero if needed. Modal verbs terminology In the present document "shall", "shall not", "should", "should not", "may", "need not", "will", "will not", "can" and "cannot" are to be interpreted as described in clause 3.2 of the O-RAN Drafting Rules (Verbal forms for the expression of provisions). "must" and "must not" are NOT allowed in O-RAN deliverables except when used in direct citation.

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms apply: Non-RT RIC: O-RAN non-real-time RAN Intelligent Controller: a logical function in the SMO framework that enables non- real-time control and optimization of RAN elements and resources, AI/ML workflow including model training and updates, and policy-based guidance of applications/features in Near-RT RIC. The Non-RT RIC is comprised of the Non-RT RIC framework and Non-RT RIC applications (rApps). Non-RT RIC framework: Functionality internal to the SMO framework that logically terminates the A1 interface and provides the R1 services to rApps through the R1 interface. rApp: Non-RT RIC application: an application designed to consume and/or produce R1 Services.
> NOTE: rApps can leverage the functionality provided by the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework to deliver value added
services related to intelligent RAN optimization and operation. DME type: data type managed and exposed by the DME services and identified by a data type identifier.

## 3.2 Symbols
Void

## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply: API Application programming Interface AuthN Authentication AuthZ Authorization DME Data Management and Exposure FWK Framework FM Fault management ID Identifier Non-RT RIC Non-real time RAN Intelligent Controller PM Performance management SME Service Management and Exposure SMO Service Management and Orchestration

## 3.4 Conventions

### 3.4.1 General
For the purposes of the present document, the conventions in the following clauses apply.

### 3.4.2 Requirements
The requirements and solutions for use cases are based on the methodology specified in ITU-T M.3020 [7], clause A.1.2.

# 4 General
The R1 interface is defined between the rApps and the Non-RT RIC framework, as defined in R1GAP [1]. In the use case sequence flows, solid lines are used for the message interactions which are defined in O-RAN specifications. Dashed lines are used to represent the messages interactions that are not specified in O-RAN specifications or can be implementation specific interactions.

# 5 Requirements

## 5.1 General
The general R1 interface requirements are specified in UCR [2]

## 5.2 Security
The security requirements applicable to the R1 interface are specified in SRS [4], clause 5.2.6.

## 5.3 SME services functional requirements.
This clause specifies the SME services functional requirements. The functional requirements are specified in table 5.3-1. REQ Description Note REQ-R1-SME-rAppreg-FUN1 The SME services shall support registration of an rApp. REQ-R1-SME-rAppreg-FUN2 The SME services shall support authentication of an rApp. REQ-R1-SME-Servicemag-FUN1 The SME services shall support registration of a service. REQ-R1-SME-Servicemag-FUN2 The SME services shall support update of a service registration. REQ-R1-SME-Servicemag-FUN3 The SME services shall support deregistration of a registered service. REQ-R1-SME-Service discovery - The SME services shall support the discovery of services. FUN1 REQ-R1-SME-Servicesub-FUN1 The SME services shall support subscription to notifications of service availability changes. REQ-R1-SME-Servicesub-FUN2 The SME services shall support sending notifications for the service availability changes. REQ-R1-SME-Servicesub-FUN3 The SME services shall support unsubscription to notifications of service availability changes.

## 5.4 DME services functional requirements
This cause specifies the DME services functional requirements. The functional requirements are specified in table 5.4-1. REQ Description Note REQ-R1-DME-Regdatatype-FUN1 The DME services shall support registration, query, update and deregistration of a DME type. REQ-R1-DME-Discoverydatatype- The DME services shall support querying available DME FUN1 types. REQ-R1-DME- The DME services shall support subscription to notifications Subscribedatatypechanges-FUN1 regarding changes in the availability of DME types. REQ-R1-DME- The DME services shall support sending notifications about Notifydatatypechanges-FUN1 changes in the availability of DME types. REQ-R1-DME- The DME services shall support to unsubscribe from Unsubscribedatatypechanges-FUN1 notifications regarding changes in the availability of DME types. REQ-R1-DME-Dataoffer -FUN1 The DME services shall support the creation of data offers. REQ-R1-DME-Dataoffer -FUN2 The DME services shall support the termination of data offers. REQ-R1-DME-Data subscription- The DME services shall support the creation of data FUN1 subscriptions. REQ-R1-DME-Data subscription- The DME services shall support the termination of data FUN2 subscriptions. REQ-R1-DME-Data subscription- The DME services shall support the update of data FUN3 subscriptions. REQ-R1-DME-Data subscription- The DME services shall support the query of data FUN4 subscriptions. REQ-R1-DME-Data request-FUN1 The DME services shall support the creation of data requests. REQ-R1-DME-Data request-FUN2 The DME services shall support the cancellation of data requests. REQ-R1-DME-Data delivery-FUN1 The DME services shall support the delivery of subscribed or requested data. REQ-R1-DME-Data subscription- The DME services shall support the query the status of data FUN1 subscriptions.

## 5.5 RAN OAM-related services functional requirements.
This clause specifies the FM, CM and PM services functional requirements. The functional requirements are specified in table 5.5-1. REQ Description Note REQ-R1-OAM- The FM service shall support querying alarm information related to FMservice-FUN1 the O-RAN managed entities. REQ-R1-OAM- The FM service shall support changing the acknowledgement state of Fmservice-FUN2 alarms related to the O-RAN managed entities. REQ-R1-OAM- The PM service shall support querying performance information Pmservice-FUN1 related to the O-RAN managed entities. REQ-R1-OAM- The CM service should support retrieving configuration schema Cmservice-FUN1 related to the O-RAN managed entities. REQ-R1-OAM- The CM service shall support retrieving configuration data related to Cmservice-FUN2 O-RAN managed entities. REQ-R1-OAM- The CM service shall support to write configuration changes to O- Cmservice-FUN3 RAN managed entities.
> NOTE: The querying of performance information, and how this relates to the Data management and exposure services,
is not defined in the present document.

## 5.6 AI/ML workflow services functional requirements
This clause specifies the AI/ML workflow services functional requirements. The functional requirements are specified in table 5.6-1. REQ Description Note REQ-R1-AIML-Deploymodel-FUN1 The AI/ML workflow services shall support the request of deployment of an AI/ML model. REQ-R1-AIML-Retrievemodel-FUN1 The AI/ML workflow services shall support retrieving the location details of a registered AI/ML model. REQ-R1-AI/ML-training-FUN1 The AI/ML workflow services shall support training of AI/ML models. REQ-R1-AI/ML-training-FUN2 The AI/ML workflow services shall support query of AI/ML training job status. REQ-R1-AI/ML-training-FUN3 The AI/ML workflow services shall support notification for AI/ML training job status changes. REQ-R1-AI/ML-Discovery -FUN1 The AI/ML workflow services shall support discovery of registered AI/ML models. REQ-R1-AIML-Registermodel-FUN1 The AI/ML workflow services shall support registration and deregistration of an AI/ML model, and query and update of a model registration. REQ-R1-AIML-Performance-FUN1 The AI/ML workflow services shall support subscription to AI/ML model performance information. REQ-R1-AIML-Performance-FUN2 The AI/ML workflow services shall support notification of AI/ML model performance information. REQ-R1-AIML-inference -FUN1 The AI/ML workflow services shall support request and cancel for the inference of an AI/ML model. REQ-R1-AIML-inference -FUN2 The AI/ML workflow services shall support query of the inference capability information for a registered AI/ML model. REQ-R1-AI/ML-Registertraincap - The AI/ML workflow services should support registration, FUN1 deregistration, update and query of an AI/ML model trainer’s training capability.

## 5.7 A1-related services functional requirements
This clause specifies the A1 policy management services and A1 enrichment information related services functional requirements. The functional requirements are specified in table 5.7.1-1. REQ Description Note REQ-R1-A1P- FUN1 The A1 policy management service shall support querying an A1 policy type. REQ-R1-A1P- FUN2 The A1 policy management service shall support querying A1 policy identifiers. REQ-R1-A1P- FUN3 The A1 policy management service shall support querying A1 policy type identifiers. REQ-R1-A1P- FUN4 The A1 policy management service shall support querying an A1 policy. REQ-R1-A1P- FUN5 The A1 policy management service shall support querying the status of an A1 policy. REQ-R1-A1P- FUN6 The A1 policy management service shall support subscription to notifications regarding status changes of an A1 policy. REQ-R1-A1P- FUN7 The A1 policy management services shall support sending notifications regarding status changes of an A1 policy. REQ-R1-A1P- FUN8 The A1 policy management service shall support unsubscription from notifications regarding status changes of an A1 policy. REQ-R1-A1P- FUN9 The A1 policy management service shall support creating, querying, updating, and deleting an A1 policy.

# 6 Use cases for Service Management and Exposure

## 6.1 SME use case 1: Bootstrap

### 6.1.1 Overview
This use case provides the description and requirements for retrieving bootstrap information that enables an rApp to optionally discover the SME services for registering and discovering service API.

### 6.1.2 Background and goal of the use case
The rApp can use the bootstrap service to discover the SME services for registering and discovering service APIs.

### 6.1.3 Entities/resources involved in the use case.
1) SME functions in the role of SME services Producer a) support functionality that allows the rApp to retrieve the bootstrap information that enables it to discover the SME services. 2) rApp a) retrieves the bootstrap information that enables it to discover the SME services,

### 6.1.4 Solutions
6.1.4.1 rApp bootstrap <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal Find the SME service endpoints, − rApp in the role of SME services Consumer. Actors and Roles − SME functions in the role of SME services Producer. Assumptions n/a Preconditions The rApp is instantiated. Begins when The rApp is ready for registration. Step 1 The rApp will initiate a bootstrap request to find the SME endpoints. Step 2 The SME functions respond with the details of the service endpoints. Ends when The rApp has retrieved the details of the service endpoints. Exceptions n/a Post Conditions The rApp has retrieved the details of the service endpoints. Traceability 'https://plantuml.com/sequence-diagram !pragma teoz true participant rApp as rApp participant “SME functions” as SEF ==bootstrap == Deactivate SEF

### 6.1.5 Required data.
The rApp may obtain information about the SME services endpoints from the producer of bootstrap service.

## 6.2 SME Use case 2: Manage Service Registration

### 6.2.1 Overview
This use case allows an rApp as Service Producer to register each of its produced services, update the service information of each of its registered services and deregister each of its registered service as specified in R1GAP [1].

### 6.2.2 Background and goal of the use case
An rApp as a Service Producer can register each of the new services its produces. Other rApps that are Service Consumers can discover the registered services. After an rApp as a Service Producer has successfully registered the each of the services it produces, it can update and/or deregister each of the registered services.

### 6.2.3 Entities/resources involved in the use case.
1) SME functions in the role of SME services Producer: a. support functionality to register a service produced by an rApp, b. support authorization of an rApp to determine whether an rApp can register a service, update a registered service, and deregister a registered service, c. support validation of the new service produced by an rApp that includes determining whether there are conflicts with services registered earlier, d. provide the response of success or failure result to Register service request, Update service registration request and Deregister service request. 2) rApp a. supports to initiate the procedure to register a service it produces, update a registered service, and deregister a registered service.

### 6.2.4 Solutions

#### 6.2.4.1 Register Service
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal The rApp successfully registers a service. − rApp in the role of Service Producer that requests service registration. Actors and Roles − SME functions in the role of SME services Producer that handles the service registration. Assumptions n/a The rApp is deployed and authorised to register a service and optionally Preconditions has the bootstrap info. Begins when The rApp determines the need to register a service. The rApp requests the SME functions to register a service by providing the Step 1 (M) rAppId and service profile. The SME functions check whether the rApp is authorised to register a Step 2 (M) service. The SME functions validate the information about the new service Step 3 (M) produced by the rApp, that includes determining whether there are conflicts with services registered earlier. Step 4 (M) The SME functions register the service and make the service endpoint available for discovery. Step 5 (M) The SME functions respond to the rApp with a success result along with a service identifier. Ends when The rApp was able to register a service. n/a Exceptions Post Conditions The rApp will be able to update and de-register the registered service. Traceability REQ-R1-SME-Servicemag-FUN1. 'https://plantuml.com/sequence-diagram !pragma teoz true participant rApp as rApp participant "SME functions" as SME note right check authorization to register a service

#### 6.2.4.2 Update service registration
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal The rApp successfully updates a service registration. − rApp in the role of Service Producer that requests updating the registered information of a service. Actors and Roles − SME functions in the role of SME services Producer in SMO/Non-RT RIC framework that handles the update to registered service. Assumptions n/a The rApp is authorised to update service. The rApp has registered a Preconditions service. The rApp determines the need to update the registered information of a Begins when service. The rApp requests the SME functions to update the service information of Step 1 (M) registered service by providing rAppId, service identifier and delta service profile. The SME functions check whether the rApp is authorised to update a Step 2 (M) registered service. Step 3 (M) The SME functions update the service information and make the updated service endpoint available for discovery. Step 4 (M) The SME functions respond to rApp with successful result. Ends when The rApp was able to update service registration. Exceptions n/a Post Conditions The rApp will be able to update and de-register the registered service. Traceability REQ-R1-SME-Servicemag-FUN2. 'https://plantuml.com/sequence-diagram !pragma teoz true participant “rApp" as rApp participant "SME functions" as SME profile) note right check authorization to update a registered service

#### 6.2.4.3 Deregister Service
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal The rApp successfully deregister a service. − rApp in the role of Service Producer that requests service deregistration. Actors and Roles − SME functions in the role of SME services Producer that handles the service deregistration. Assumptions n/a The rApp is authorised to deregister a service. The rApp has previously Preconditions registered the service that is requested to be deregistered. Begins when The rApp determines the need to deregister a registered service. The rApp requests the SME functions to deregister a service by providing Step 1 (M) the rAppId and service identifier. Step 2 (M) The SME functions check if rApp is authorised to deregister a service. Step 3 (M) The SME functions remove the registered service and remove the service endpoint from the set of endpoints that can be discovered. Step 4 (M) The SME functions respond to rApp with a successful result. Ends when The rApp was able to deregister a service. Exceptions n/a The rApp has deregistered a registered service; service endpoint will be Post Conditions no longer available for service discovery. Traceability REQ-R1-SME-Servicemag-FUN3. 'https://plantuml.com/sequence-diagram !pragma teoz true participant “rApp” as rApp participant "SME functions" as SME note right check authorization to deregister a registered service

### 6.2.5 Required data.
The service profile information includes e.g., the name of the service, service type, communication mechanism, interface endpoint details (such as IP address, port number, URI, protocol), version number, and data format. For registering a service, the rApp needs to provide the rAppId and the service profile. On successful registration, the SME services Producer assigns a service identifier for the newly registered service and returns it to the rApp. For updating a registered service, the rApp needs to provide the rAppId, the service identifier and the delta information that needs to be changed in the service profile. For de-registering a registered service, the rApp needs to provide the rAppId and the service identifier.
> NOTE: It is up to the design of the authorization mechanism whether the rAppId will be passed as a separate piece of
information or will be embedded in or implied by the authorization information.

## 6.3 SME use case 3: Discovery of services

### 6.3.1 Overview
This usecase allows an rApp as a Service Consumer to discover the available services.

### 6.3.2 Background and goal of the use case
The discovery of services is specified as part of Service management and exposure services in R1GAP [1]. An rApp in the role of Service Consumer will be able to discover the available services.

### 6.3.3 Entities/resources involved in the use case.
1) SME functions in the role of SME services Producer a. support functionality to discover the available services, b. support authorization of an rApp to determine which services an rApp can discover, c. retrieve the stored service information and performs filtering of available services based on selection criteria that may be provided by the rApp, d. provide response of success or failure to Discover service request. 2) rApp a. supports initiating the procedure to discover available services, optionally providing selection criteria.

### 6.3.4 Solutions

#### 6.3.4.1 Discover the services.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal The rApp discovers the available services. − rApp in the role of Service Consumer that requests to discover the available services. Actors and Roles − SME functions in the role of SME services Producer that handles the discovery of available services. Assumptions n/a Preconditions The rApp is authorised to discover services. Begins when The rApp determines the need to discover the available services. The rApp requests the SME functions to discover available services based on Step 1 (M) the rAppId and optional selection criteria. Step 2 (M) The SME functions check which services the rApp is authorized to discover. The SME functions respond with the set of available services and their service identifiers. The list contains only those available services that match the Step 3 (M) selection criteria if those were provided by the rApp, or all available services otherwise. Ends when The rApp was able to discover the available services. Exceptions n/a Post Conditions The rApp can request access to the available services. Traceability REQ-R1-SME-Service Discovery -FUN1. 'https://plantuml.com/sequence-diagram !pragma teoz true participant rApp as rApp participant " SME functions" as SME note right check authorization to discover available services

### 6.3.5 Required data.
For discovering a service, the rApp needs to provide the rAppId and optional selection criteria such as e.g., name of the service, service type, and capabilities. The SME functions respond with information about a set of services which includes e.g., endpoint information and service identifiers.
> NOTE: Whether an rApp may be allowed to discover services for which it is currently not authorized but might be able to
obtain authorization later is not defined in the present document.

## 6.4 SME use case 4: Subscribe service availability.

### 6.4.1 Overview
This use case allows an rApp as Service Consumer to subscribe to notifications and unsubscribe from notifications regarding changes in service availability, to receive notifications about subscribed events and to update its subscriptions.

### 6.4.2 Background and goal of the use case
The subscribe service availability, notify service availability changes, unsubscribe service availability and update service availability subscriptions procedures are defined as part of Service management and exposure services in R1GAP [1]. The rApp in the role of Service Consumer can subscribe to notifications and unsubscribe from notifications regarding changes in the availability of services.

### 6.4.3 Entities/resources involved in the use case.
1) SME functions in the role of SME services Producer a) support functionality to subscribe to and unsubscribe from service availability notifications by an rApp as well as to update its subscriptions, b) support notifying the rApp regarding the changes in the availability of services, c) provide response of success or failure to subscribe service availability request, update service availability subscription request and unsubscribe service availability request. 2) rApp a) supports functionality to initiate requests to subscribe to and unsubscribe from service availability notifications as well as to update its subscriptions, b) supports functionality to accept notifications of the changes in service availability from the SME services Producer.

### 6.4.4 Solutions

#### 6.4.4.1 Subscribe to service availability notifications.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use The rApp subscribes to notifications about changes of the availability of Goal services. − rApp in the role of Service Consumer that requests subscription to service availability notifications. Actors and Roles − SME functions in the role of SME services Producer entity that handles the subscription requests. Assumptions n/a The rApp is authorized to subscribe to notifications about changes in service Preconditions availability. The rApp determines to subscribe to notifications, regarding changes in the Begins when availability of services. The rApp requests the SME functions to subscribe to notifications regarding Step 1 (M) changes in the available services with rAppId and optional service identifiers. The SME functions check whether the rApp is authorized to send a Step 2 (M) subscription request. Step 3 (M) The SME functions respond with subscription identifier. Ends when The rApp was able to subscribe to notifications. Exceptions n/a The rApp can receive notifications when there are any changes in the services Post Conditions availability. The rApp can unsubscribe from service availability notifications. Traceability REQ-R1-SME-Servicesub-FUN1. 'https://plantuml.com/sequence-diagram !pragma teoz true participant rApp as rApp participan“ "SME functions " as SME note right check authorization to send a subscription request

#### 6.4.4.2 Notify service availability changes.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal The rApp receives notifications about changes in the available services. − rApp in the role of Service Consumer that receives notifications on service availability changes. Actors and Roles − SME functions in the role of SME services Producer that sends notifications on service availability changes. Assumptions n/a Preconditions The rApp has subscribed to notifications on service availability changes. The SME functions determine to send notifications, regarding changes in the Begins when available service/s to subscribed rApp. The SME functions detect changes in service availability (due to service Step 1 (M) registration, service update, service deregistration and heartbeat failure). The SME functions send notifications regarding the changes to be subscribed Step 2 (M) rApp with subscription identifier and information about service changes. Step 3(M) The rApp processes the changes. Ends when The rApp was able to process the changes in the available services. Exceptions n/a Post Conditions n/a Traceability REQ-R1-SME-Servicesub-FUN2. 'https://plantuml.com/sequence-diagram !pragma teoz true participant rApp as rApp participant "SME functions " as SME

#### 6.4.4.3 Unsubscribe from service availability notifications.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal The rApp unsubscribes from service availability notifications. − rApp in the role of Service Consumer that requests unsubscribe from service availability notifications. Actors and Roles − SME functions in the role of SME services Producer that process the unsubscribe service availability request. Assumptions n/a The rApp is authorized to unsubscribe from service availability notifications. Preconditions The rApp has subscribed to notification changes. Begins when The rApp determines to unsubscribe from service availability notifications. The rApp requests the SME functions to unsubscribe from service availability Step 1 (M) notifications with rAppId and subscription identifier. Step 2 (M) The SME functions check whether the rApp is authorized to unsubscribe. Step 3 (M) The SME functions send a response. Ends when The rApp was able to unsubscribe from service availability notifications. Exceptions n/a Post Conditions The rApp is not subscribed to service availability notifications. Traceability REQ-R1-SME-Servicesub-FUN3. 'https://plantuml.com/sequence-diagram !pragma teoz true participant rApp as rApp participant "SME functions " as SME identifier) note right check authorization to unsubscribe

#### 6.4.4.4 Update subscriptions to service availability notifications
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use The rApp updates its subscriptions to notifications about changes of the Goal availability of services. − rApp in the role of Service Consumer that requests updating one of its subscriptions to service availability notifications. Actors and Roles − SME functions in the role of SME services Producer entity that handles the update subscription requests. Assumptions n/a The rApp is authorized to update its subscriptions to notifications about Preconditions changes in service availability. The rApp determines to update one of its subscriptions to notifications Begins when regarding changes in the availability of services. The rApp requests the SME functions to update one of its subscriptions to Step 1 (M) notifications regarding changes in the available services with rAppId and subscription identifier. The SME functions check whether the rApp is authorized to update the Step 2 (M) subscription. Step 3 (M) The SME functions send a response. Ends when The rApp was able to update one of its subscriptions to notifications. Exceptions n/a Post Conditions None Traceability REQ-R1-SME-Servicesub-FUN4. 'https://plantuml.com/sequence-diagram !pragma teoz true participant rApp as rApp participant "SME functions" as SME subscription update information) note right check authorization to update the subscription

### 6.4.5 Required data.
To receive notifications regarding changes in service availability, the rApp as Service Consumer subscribes to notifications by providing rAppId and optional service identifier/s. When the SME functions have successfully processed the request, they respond by providing a subscription identifier. The SME functions send notifications to the subscribed rApp when there are changes in the availability of services by providing subscription identifier, service identifiers and information about the changes. For updating a subscription, a subscribed rApp needs to provide the subscription identifier and subscription update information. For unsubscribing from notifications, a subscribed rApp needs to provide subscription identifier.

## 6.5 SME use case 5: Query registered services

### 6.5.1 Overview
This use case allows an rApp as Service Producer to retrieve the service information of registered services as specified in R1GAP [1].

### 6.5.2 Background and goal of the use case
An rApp as a Service registration service Consumer can retrieve the service information of its registered services from the Service registration services Producer.

### 6.5.3 Entities/resources involved in the use case.
1) SME functions in the role of Service registration service Producer a. support functionality to query the information of registered services, b. support authorization of an rApp to determine whether an rApp can query the information of registered services, c. retrieve the stored service information and performs filtering of available services based on the selection criteria that may be provided by rApp, d. provide the response of success or failure result to Query registered services request. 2) rApp a. supports to initiate the procedure to query the service information of its registered services.

### 6.5.4 Solutions

#### 6.5.4.1 Query registered services
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal The rApp is aware of the service information of its registered services. − rApp in the role of Service registration service Consumer that queries registered services. Actors and Roles − SME functions in the role of Service registration service Producer that handles the queries for registered services. Assumptions n/a Preconditions The rApp is authorized to query its registered services. Begins when The rApp determines the need to query registered services. The rApp requests the SME functions to query registered services based on the Step 1 (M) rAppId and optional selection criteria. Step 2 (M) The SME functions check if the rApp is authorized to query registered services. Step 3 (M) The SME functions respond with service API descriptions that match the query. Ends when The rApp was able to query registered services. Exceptions n/a Post Conditions n/a Traceability n/a 'https://plantuml.com/sequence-diagram !pragma teoz true participant rApp as rApp participant " SME functions" as SME note right check authorization to query registered services

### 6.5.5 Required data.
For querying registered services, the rApp needs to provide the rAppId and optional selection criteria e.g., service name, service type and capabilities. The SME functions respond with service API descriptions that match the selection criteria.

# 7 Use cases for Data Management and Exposure Services

## 7.1 DME use case 1: Data registration, update, and deregistration.

### 7.1.1 Overview
This use case defines how an rApp as DME registration and discovery services consumer registers as producer of data for a DME type, queries a DME type registration, updates a DME type registration and deregisters as producer of data for a DME type.

### 7.1.2 Background and goal of the use case
The Register DME type Query DME type registration, Update DME type registration and Deregister DME type procedures are defined as part of Data management and exposure services in R1GAP [1].

### 7.1.3 Entities/resources involved in the use case.
1) Data management and exposure functions a) support functionality to allow an rApp to register, query, update and deregister as producer of data for a DME type, b) support functionality to allow an rApp to register the constraints for how it can produce and deliver data for the registered DME type, c) support validation of DME type information (e.g., schema validation). 2) rApp a) initiates the procedure to register, query, update and deregister as producer of data for a DME type.

### 7.1.4 Solutions

#### 7.1.4.1 Register DME type
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal The rApp registers as producer of data for a DME type. − rApp in the role of Data registration and discovery service Consumer. Actors and Roles − Data management and exposure functions in the role of Data registration and discovery service Producer. Assumptions n/a − The rApp is authorized to access the Data management and exposure services. Preconditions − The rApp not registered as producer of data for the DME type that they intend to register in Data management and exposure functions. The rApp determines the need to register as a producer of data for a Begins when DME type. The rApp requests the Data management and exposure functions to Step 1 (M) register as producer of data for a DME type by providing the rAppId and DME type information. The Data management and exposure functions check with SME Step 2 (M) functions whether the rApp is authorized to register as producer of data. The Data management and exposure functions validate the DME Step 3 (M) type information. The Data management and exposure functions register the rApp as Data Producer of the DME type. Further, in case this rApp is the first Step 4(M) producer of data that registers for the DME type, the Data management and exposure functions add the DME type to the set of discoverable DME types. The Data management and exposure functions respond to rApp with Step 5(M) successful DME type registration along with DME type registration identifier. Ends when The rApp was able to register as producer of data for a DME type. Exceptions n/a Post Conditions The DME type is discoverable. Traceability REQ-R1-DME-Regdatatype-FUN1 'https://plantuml.com/sequence-diagram !pragma teoz true participant rApp as rApp participant “Data management and\n exposure functions” as DME note right Check authorization in collaboration with SME functions note right validation of DME type information Fig 7.1.4.1-1: Register DME type use case flow diagram.

#### 7.1.4.2 Deregister DME type.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal The rApp deregisters as producer of data for a DME type. − rApp in the role of Data registration and discovery service Consumer. Actors and Roles − Data management and exposure functions in the role of Data registration and discovery service Producer. Assumptions The rApp is not producing any data for the DME type. − The rApp has registered as producer of data for a DME type. Preconditions − The rApp is authorized to access the Data management and exposure services. The rApp determines the need to deregister as producer of data for a DME Begins when type that it no longer intends to produce. The rApp requests Data management and exposure functions to be Step 1 (M) deregistered as producer of data for a DME type by providing rAppId and DME type registration identifier. The Data management and exposure functions check with SME functions Step 2(M) whether the rApp is authorized to deregister as producer of data. The Data management and exposure functions remove the registration of the rApp as producer of data for the DME type. Step 3 (M) Further, in case no other producer of data for the DME type is registered, the Data management and exposure functions remove the DME type from the set of discoverable DME types. The Data management and exposure functions respond to the rApp with Step 4 (M) successful deregistration. Ends when The rApp was able to deregister the as producer of data for the DME type. Exceptions n/a The rApp will not receive any request of data for the DME type and if no other Post Conditions producer is registered, the DME type is not discoverable any longer. Traceability REQ-R1-DME-Regdatatype-FUN1 'https://plantuml.com/sequence-diagram !pragma teoz true participant rApp as rApp participant "Data management and\n exposure functions" as DME note right Check authorization in collaboration with SME functions

#### 7.1.4.3 Update DME type registration
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use The rApp as producer of data updates a DME type registration it has Goal previously created. − rApp in the role of Data registration and discovery service Consumer. Actors and Roles − Data management and exposure functions in the role of Data registration and discovery service Producer. Assumptions n/a − The rApp has registered as producer of data for a DME type. Preconditions − The rApp is authorized to access the Data management and exposure services. The rApp determines the need to update a DME type registration it has Begins when previously created. The rApp requests Data management and exposure functions to update a Step 1 (M) DME type registration it has previously created by providing rAppId, DME type registration identifier and DME type registration update information. The Data management and exposure functions check with SME functions Step 2(M) whether the rApp is authorized to update its registered DME type. The Data management and exposure functions update the registered DME Step 3 (M) type. The Data management and exposure functions respond to the rApp with Step 4 (M) successful result. Ends when The rApp has updated the DME type registration. Exceptions n/a Post Conditions The updated DME type is discoverable. Traceability REQ-R1-DME-Regdatatype-FUN1 'https://plantuml.com/sequence-diagram !pragma teoz true participant rApp as rApp participant "Data management and\n exposure functions" as DME identifier, DME type registration update information) note right Check authorization in collaboration with SME functions

#### 7.1.4.4 Query DME type registration
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use The rApp as producer of data query a DME type registration it has previously Goal created. − rApp in the role of Data registration and discovery service Consumer. Actors and Roles − Data management and exposure functions in the role of Data registration and discovery service Producer. Assumptions n/a − The rApp has registered as producer of data for a DME type. Preconditions − The rApp is authorized to access the Data management and exposure services. The rApp determines the need to query a DME type registration it has Begins when previously created. The rApp requests Data management and exposure functions to query a DME Step 1 (M) type registration it has previously created by providing rAppId and DME type registration identifier. The Data management and exposure functions check with SME functions Step 2(M) whether the rApp is authorized to query its registered DME type. The Data management and exposure functions query the registered DME Step 3 (M) type. The Data management and exposure functions respond to the rApp with DME Step 4 (M) type registration information. Ends when The rApp has queried the DME type registration. Exceptions n/a Post Conditions n/a Traceability REQ-R1-DME-Regdatatype-FUN1 'https://plantuml.com/sequence-diagram !pragma teoz true participant rApp as rApp participant "Data management and\n exposure functions" as DME identifier) note right Check authorization in collaboration with SME functions

### 7.1.5 Required data.
The DME type information includes the data type identifier, metadata describing the DME type, the schemas for the data content, and constraints for how data can be produced, delivered, and accessed. For registering a DME type, the rApp provides the rAppId and DME type information. On successful registration, Data management and exposure functions provide a DME type registration identifier for the registration of the rApp as producer of data for the DME type. For querying a DME type registration, the rApp provides the rAppId and DME type registration identifier. For updating a DME type registration, the rApp provides the rAppId, DME type registration identifier and DME type registration update information. For deregistering a DME type, the rApp provides the rAppId and the DME type registration identifier.
> NOTE: Data management and exposure functions are not required to check whether the rApp is not producing any data
for the DME type it tries to deregister.

## 7.2 DME use case 2: Discovery of DME types.

### 7.2.1 Overview
This use case enables an rApp to retrieve information about registered and available DME types and query a DME type identifier and its associated information. It also enables an rApp to subscribe to and unsubscribe from notifications regarding changes in the availability of DME types.

### 7.2.2 Background and goal of the use case.
The discover DME type and query DME type information, subscribe DME types changes, unsubscribe DME types changes and notify DME types changes procedure are defined as part of the Data management and exposure services in R1 GAP [1].

### 7.2.3 Entities/resources involved in the use case.
1) Data management and exposure functions in the role of Data registration and discovery service Producer, a) support functionality allowing rApps to discover the DME types that are available, b) support functionality allowing rApps to retrieve the information about a specific data type identified by a DME type identifier, c) support functionality allowing rApps to subscribe to and unsubscribe from notifications regarding the availability of DME types, d) support functionality to notify rApps about changes in the availability of DME types. 2) rApp in the role of Data registration and discovery service Consumer. a) initiates the procedure to discover DME types and query DME type information, subscribe DME types of changes and unsubscribe DME types changes, b) supports functionality to receive notifications regarding changes in the availability of DME types.

### 7.2.4 Solutions

#### 7.2.4.1 Discover DME type.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal The rApp retrieves the information on available DME types − rApp in the role of Data registration and discovery service Consumer. Actors and Roles − Data management and exposure functions in the role of Data registration and discovery service Producer Assumptions n/a − The rApp is authorized to access the Data registration and discovery services. Preconditions − At least one DME type is registered and available with the Data management and exposure functions. Begins when The rApp determines the need to discover the available DME types. The rApp requests the Data management and exposure functions for Step 1 (M) the information on the available DME types by providing rAppId and optional filter criteria. The Data management and exposure functions validate if the rApp is Step 2(M) authorized to discover the available DME types. The Data management and exposure functions provide the information about available DME types. The list contains only those Step 3(M) available DME types that match the filtering criteria if those were provided by the rApp, or all available DME types otherwise. For each DME type, the data type identifier and meta data are provided. Ends when The rApp was able to discover the available DME types. Exceptions n/a The rApp can retrieve specific information related to a DME type by Post Conditions providing its data type identifier. Traceability REQ-R1-DME-discoverydatatype-FUN1 'https://plantuml.com/sequence-diagram !pragma teoz true participant rApp as rApp participant "Data management and\n exposure functions" as DME note right Check authorization in collaboration with SME functions

#### 7.2.4.2 Query DME type information
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal The rApp retrieves detailed information on a specific DME type. − rApp in the role of Data registration and discovery service Consumer. Actors and Roles − Data management and exposure functions in the role of Data registration and discovery service Producer. Assumptions n/a − The rApp is authorized to access the Data registration and discovery service. Error! Reference Preconditions − The rApp is aware of the data type identifier of the source not found. DME type about which it intends to retrieve detail information. The rApp determines the need to retrieve the information on a Begins when specific DME type. The rApp requests the Data management and exposure functions for Step 1 (M) the information on a specific DME type by providing the data type identifier. The Data management and exposure functions validate if the rApp is Step 2(M) authorized to retrieve the information. The Data management and exposure functions provide the Step 3(M) information on the requested data type identifier Ends when The rApp has all the information of a DME type Exceptions n/a The rApp can formulate a request or subscription for data of that Post Conditions DME type. Traceability REQ-R1-DME-discoverydatatype-FUN1 'https://plantuml.com/sequence-diagram !pragma teoz true participant rApp as rApp participant "Data management and\n exposure functions" as DME note right Check authorization in collaboration with SME functions

#### 7.2.4.3 Subscribe DME types changes.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use The rApp subscribes to notifications regarding changes in the Goal availability of DME types. − rApp in the role of Data registration and discovery service Consumer. Actors and Roles − Data management and exposure functions in the role of Data registration and discovery service Producer. Assumptions n/a − The rApp is authorized to access the Data registration and discovery service. Error! Reference Preconditions − The rApp is aware of the data type identifier of the source not found. DME type. The rApp determines the need to subscribe to notifications regarding Begins when changes in the availability of DME types. The rApp requests the Data management and exposure functions to Step 1 (M) subscribe to notifications regarding DME types availability changes by providing the rAppId and data type identifier(s). The Data management and exposure functions validate if the rApp is Step 2(M) authorized to subscribe to notifications. The Data management and exposure functions create the Step 3(M) subscription. The Data management and exposure functions respond to the Step 4(M) request with subscription ID. The rApp was able to subscribe to notifications regarding DME types Ends when changes. Exceptions n/a The rApp can receive notifications when there are any changes in Post Conditions the set of DME types. The rApp can unsubscribe from the notifications. Traceability n/a 'https://plantuml.com/sequence-diagram !pragma teoz true participant rApp as rApp participant "Data management and\n exposure functions" as DME note right Check authorization in collaboration with SME functions

#### 7.2.4.4 Notify DME types changes.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use The rApp receives a notification regarding a change in the Goal availability of DME types. − rApp in the role of Data registration and discovery service Consumer. Actors and Roles − Data management and exposure functions in the role of Data registration and discovery service Producer. Assumptions n/a − The rApp is authorized to access the Data registration Error! Reference Preconditions and discovery service. source not found. − The rApp is subscribed to notifications. The Data management and exposure functions determine to send a Begins when notification regarding a change in the availability of DME types to the subscribed rApp. The Data management and exposure functions send a notification to Step 1(M) the subscribed rApp with subscription ID, data type identifier(s) and information about the changes in the availability of DME types Ends when The rApp was able to receive the notification. Exceptions n/a Post Conditions n/a Traceability n/a 'https://plantuml.com/sequence-diagram !pragma teoz true participant rApp as rApp participant "Data management and\n exposure functions" as DME \navailability change details)

#### 7.2.4.5 Unsubscribe DME types changes.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal The rApp unsubscribes from notifications. − rApp in the role of Data registration and discovery service Consumer. Actors and Roles − Data management and exposure functions in the role of Data registration and discovery service Producer. Assumptions n/a − The rApp is authorized to access the Data registration and discovery service. Error! Reference Preconditions − The rApp is subscribed to notifications regarding DME source not found. types changes. The rApp determines the need to unsubscribe from notifications Begins when regarding changes in the availability of DME types. The rApp requests the Data management and exposure functions to Step 1 (M) unsubscribe from notifications regarding DME types changes by providing the rAppId and subscription ID. The Data management and exposure functions validate if the rApp is Step 2(M) authorized to unsubscribe from notifications. The Data management and exposure functions cancel the Step 3(M) subscription The Data management and exposure functions respond to the Step 4(M) request. The rApp was able to unsubscribe from notifications regarding Ends when changes in the availability of DME types. Exceptions n/a Post Conditions n/a Traceability n/a 'https://plantuml.com/sequence-diagram !pragma teoz true participant rApp as rApp participant "Data management and\n exposure functions" as DME note right Check authorization in collaboration with SME functions

### 7.2.5 Required data.
For the Discover DME types request, the rApp provides the rAppId and optional query information. The Data management and exposure functions respond with information about all available DME types which includes for each DME type, the data type identifier, and related metadata information. If filtering criteria were provided in the related request, the response only contains information about those DME types that match the filtering criteria. For the Query DME type information request, the rApp provides the data type identifier. The Data management and exposure functions respond with information related to the DME type. For subscription to notifications regarding changes in the availability of DME types, the rApp provides the rAppId and the data type identifier(s). The Data management and exposure functions respond with a unique subscription identifier. The Data management and exposure functions send notifications to the subscribed rApp by providing the subscription identifier, data type identifier(s) and related information about the changes in the availability of DME types. For unsubscribing from notifications regarding changes in the availability of DME types, the subscribed rApp needs to send the rAppId and subscription identifier.

## 7.3 DME use case 3: Data offer.

### 7.3.1 Overview
This use case allows a Data Producer rApp as Service Consumer to create and terminate a data offer to trigger the collection of a data instance it wishes to deliver to the Data management and exposure functions as Data management and exposure services Producer for collection. Further, it allows the Data management and exposure functions as Data management and exposure services Producer to indicate to the Data Producer rApp as Service Consumer that they intend to stop collecting the data instance related to a data offer.

### 7.3.2 Background and goal of the use case

# A Data Producer rApp as Service Consumer can create a data offer which indicates to the Data management and exposure
functions that the rApp intends to deliver a data instance to the Data management and exposure services Producer for collection. Further, the Data Producer rApp as Service Consumer can terminate a data offer it has created earlier to indicate to the Data management and exposure functions that the Data Producer no longer wishes to deliver the data instance for collection. Finally, the Data management and exposure functions can indicate to the Data Producer rApp as Service Consumer via a data offer termination notification that they will stop collecting a data instance and will terminate the related data offer created earlier by the Data Producer rApp.

### 7.3.3 Entities/resources involved in the use case.
1) Data management and exposure functions as Data management and exposure services Producer a. support functionality to create a data offer as requested by a Data Producer rApp, b. support authorization of a Data Producer rApp to determine whether it can create a data offer, c. support to send data offer termination notifications, d. support to receive the offered data from the rApp and store them, e. provide the response of success or failure result to the create data offer request and the terminate data offer request. 2) rApp a. supports initiating the procedure to create a data offer indicating its intent to deliver data for collection and subsequent storage, b. supports to receive data offer termination notifications, c. supports to request terminating a data offer created earlier, d. supports to produce and deliver the offered data.

### 7.3.4 Solutions

#### 7.3.4.1 Create data offer.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use case The rApp creates a data offer to specify a data instance it produces for Goal collection. − rApp in the role of Data Producer that requests data offer creation. Actors and Roles − Data management and exposure functions in the role of Data management and exposure services Producer that handles the data offer creation. Assumptions n/a The rApp is deployed and is authorized to access the Data management Preconditions and exposure functions. Begins when The rApp determines the need to create a data offer. The rApp requests the Data management and exposure functions to create Step 1 (M) a data offer by providing the rAppId, registered data type identifier, further information about the data instance, and intended delivery method(s). The Data management and exposure functions check whether the rApp is Step 2 (M) authorized to create a data offer. The Data management and exposure functions validate the information Step 3 (M) provided with the request. Step 4 (M) The Data management and exposure functions create the data offer and prepare an endpoint for the delivery of notifications or push data. Step 5 (M) The Data management and exposure functions respond to the rApp with a success result along with the data offer identifier and endpoint for the delivery of notifications or push data. Ends when The rApp was able to create a data offer. n/a Exceptions The Data management and exposure functions are ready to collect the data instance related to the data offer and the rApp is ready to produce it. Further, Post Conditions the rApp and the Data management and exposure services Producer will be able to terminate the data offer. Traceability n/a !pragma teoz true participant "rapp" as rapp participant "Data management and\n exposure functions" as dme deliveryMethods, notifyEndpointInfo) note right Check authorization in collaboration with SME functions

#### 7.3.4.2 Deliver offered data.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use case The rApp delivers a data instance it produces for collection, based on a data Goal offer created earlier. − rApp in the role of Data Producer that produces an offered data instance. Actors and Roles − DME functions in the role of Data management and exposure services Producer that collect the offered data instance. Assumptions n/a Preconditions A data offer has been created. Begins when The rApp starts delivering the produced data related to the data offer. Each time a set of data becomes available for delivery, Steps 1-3 are Alternative procedure executed if pull is used as the data delivery method. The Data Producer rApp sends to the Data management and exposure Step 1 (M) functions a Notify data availability message, including details how to pull the requested data and the data offer identifier. The Data management and exposure functions send a pull data request Step 2 (M) message, using the pull delivery details obtained in step 1 The Data Producer rApp responds with a pull data response, including the Step 3 (M) data to be collected. Alternative Each time a set of data becomes available for delivery, Step 4 is executed procedure if push is used as the data delivery method. The Data Producer rApp sends to the Data management and exposure Step 4 (M) functions a push data message, including the data to be collected and the subscription identifier. Step 5 (M) The Data management and exposure functions store the delivered data. The rApp has delivered to the Data management and exposure functions Ends when for collection the produced data related to the data offer. n/a Exceptions Post Conditions n/a Traceability n/a !pragma teoz true participant “rApp” as rApp participant “Data management and\nexposure functions” as dme ID) else push data delivery method end end

#### 7.3.4.3 Terminate data offer by Data Producer
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use case The Data Producer rApp terminates a data offer to indicate it stops Goal producing a data instance for collection. − rApp in the role of Data Producer that requests data offer termination. Actors and Roles − Data management and exposure functions in the role of Data management and exposure services Producer that handles the data offer termination. Assumptions n/a − The rApp is authorized to access the Data management and Preconditions exposure functions. − The rApp has created a data offer. The rApp determines the need to terminate a data offer it has created Begins when previously. The rApp requests the Data management and exposure functions to Step 1 (M) terminate a data offer by providing the rAppId and the data offer identifier. The Data management and exposure functions check whether the rApp is Step 2 (M) authorized to terminate the data offer. The Data management and exposure functions validate the information Step 3 (M) provided with the request. Step 4 (M) The Data management and exposure functions stop collecting the data instance and terminate the data offer. Step 5 (M) The Data management and exposure functions respond to the rApp with a success result along with the data offer identifier. Ends when The rApp was able to terminate the data offer. n/a Exceptions Post Conditions The data instance associated with the data offer is no longer collected. Traceability n/a !pragma teoz true participant "rapp" as rapp participant "Data management and\n exposure functions" as dme note right Check authorization in collaboration with SME functions

#### 7.3.4.4 Terminate data offer by DME services Producer.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use case The Data management and exposure functions send a data offer Goal termination notification to indicate they do not intend to collect the data instance from the Data Producer any longer. − rApp in the role of Data Producer that receives a data offer termination notification. Actors and Roles − Data management and exposure functions in the role of Data management and exposure services Producer that sends the data offer termination notification. Assumptions n/a Preconditions The rApp has created a data offer. The Data management and exposure functions determine a need to Begins when terminate a data offer. The Data management and exposure functions send to the rApp a data offer Step 1 (M) termination notification providing the data offer ID. After a delay to allow the Data Producer to react to the notification, the Data Step 2 (M) management and exposure functions stop collecting data for the affected data offer and terminate the offer. The rApp stops delivering to the Data management and exposure functions Step 3 (M) data related to the affected data offer. The Data management and exposure functions were able to terminate the Ends when data offer. n/a Exceptions Post Conditions The data instance associated with the data offer is no longer collected. Traceability n/a !pragma teoz true participant "rapp" as rapp participant "Data managenment and\n exposure functions" as dme

### 7.3.5 Required data.
The Create data offer request contains the rAppId, the registered data type identifier for the data to be produced and additional information related to the data instance to be produced such as scope, target, context, timing etc. Also, the request contains the supported delivery method(s) for the data and information on the endpoint where to send data offer termination notifications. The Create data offer response contains the data offer identifier. In case of the pull delivery method, the response further contains information about the endpoint where to send data availability notifications. In case of the push delivery method, the response further contains information about the endpoint where to push the data. The Notify data availability message contains pull delivery details (e.g., a URI) and the data offer identifier. In the Pull data request, the Data management and exposure functions use the pull delivery details provided in the notify data availability message to locate the data. The Pull data response contains a set of data for collection. The Push data message contains a set of data for collection and the data offer identifier. The Terminate data offer request contains the rAppId and the data offer ID. The Terminate data offer response contains the data offer ID. The Data offer termination notification contains the data offer ID. ra ra to d e li e rm e rin in a te d a ta d a ta o e r n o ti i a tio n d a a ta a ta m e e ta m e a n a e n o s re rId a n a e n o s re mn mn e n t a n d tio n s to o lle tin te rm in a te d a ta e n t a n d tio n s d o a ta a e r n d

## 7.4 DME use case 4: Data request-Data Consumer rApp requests
data for consumption from the DME functions.

### 7.4.1 Overview
This use case describes how a Data Consumer rApp requests to obtain one-off data for consumption from the DME functions.

### 7.4.2 Background and goal of the use case
The Data request and subscription service and Data delivery service procedures are defined as part of the Data management and exposure services in R1GAP [1]. After performing the Data discovery procedure, an rApp will be able to request data from the Data management and exposure functions, and the Data management and exposure functions deliver the requested data.

### 7.4.3 Entities/resources involved in the use case.
1) Data management and exposure functions a. support functionality to receive a data request from an rApp, b. support functionality to authorize the rApps request for data, c. support functionality to provide data to an rApp. 2) rApp a. support functionality to request data, b. support functionality to retrieve the data.

### 7.4.4 Solutions

#### 7.4.4.1 Data Consumer rApp request data
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use An rApp obtains the data they intend to consume from the Data Goal Management and Exposure functions via the request data procedure. − Data Consumer rApp in the role of Data management and exposure services Consumer. Actors and Roles − Data management and exposure functions in the role of Data management and exposure services Producer that provides data. Assumptions n/a − rApp is deployed, authenticated, and authorized for usage of the Data management and exposure services. Preconditions − Data management and exposure functions produce the Data management and exposure services. An rApp, as a Data Consumer, initiates the request data procedure. Begins when The Data Consumer rApp sends to the Data management and exposure Step 1 (M) functions a request data request to obtain data for consumption, providing its rAppId and data instance information. The Data management and exposure functions check the Data Consumer Step 2 (M) rApps authorization. The Data management and exposure functions validate the Data Step 3 (M) Cons mer’s data req est. The Data management and exposure functions send to the Data Consumer Step 4 (M) rApp the data request response and include pull delivery details for the requested data instance. The Data Consumer rApp sends to the Data management and exposure Step 5 (M) functions a pull data request message, using the pull delivery details received in step 4. The Data management and exposure functions respond with a pull data Step 6 (M) response, including in the payload the data to be consumed. The requested data have been delivered to the Data Consumer rApp for Ends when consumption. Exceptions n/a Post Conditions The Data Consumer rApp has consumed the requested data. Traceability n/a !pragma teoz true participant “rApp” as rApp participant “Data management and \n exposure functions” as dme note right Check authorization in collaboration with SME functions flow diagram.

### 7.4.5 Required data.
For Request data request, the rApp provides to the Data management and exposure functions its rApp identifier (rAppId) and data instance information. Data instance information includes data type identifier, scope i.e., filter on the data, and optional constraints, e.g., time interval (i.e., start time and end time), etc. For Request data response, the Data management and exposure functions provide pull delivery details. The pull delivery details are used to locate the requested data instance, e.g., using a URI.
> NOTE: A request identifier, assigned by the Service Producer, can be a part of pull delivery details if necessary, during
the protocol design stage. For Pull data request, the rApp provides pull delivery details. For Pull data response, the Data management and exposure functions provide the requested data.

## 7.5 DME use case 5: Data request – DME functions request data
for collection from a Data Producer rApp.

### 7.5.1 Overview
This use case describes how the Data management and exposure functions request to obtain one-off data for consumption from a Data Producer rApp.

### 7.5.2 Background and goal of the use case
The Data request and subscription service and Data delivery service procedures are defined as part of Data management and exposure services in R1GAP [1]. The Data management and exposure functions request data from a Data Producer rApp, and the Data Producer rApp delivers the requested data.

### 7.5.3 Entities/resources involved in the use case.
1) Data management and exposure functions a. support functionality to request data, b. support functionality to retrieve the data. 2) rApp a. supports functionality to provide data to the DME.

### 7.5.4 Solutions

#### 7.5.4.1 DME functions request data for collection from a Data Producer rApp.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use The DME functions obtain the data they intend to collect from the Data Goal Producer rApp via request data procedure − rApp in the role of Data Producer Actors and Roles − Data management and exposure functions in the role of Data management and exposure services Consumer Assumptions n/a − rApp is deployed and authenticated. Preconditions − Data management and exposure functions have the data type identifier of the needed data. The Data management and exposure functions initiate the request data Begins when procedure to collect data from the Data Producer rApp. The Data management and exposure functions send the Data Producer Step 1 (M) rApp a request data request to obtain data for collection, providing data instance information. The Data Producer rApp validates the Data management and exposure Step 2 (M) functions data request. The Data Producer rApp replies with a request data response message, Step 3 (M) including details how to pull the requested data. The Data management and exposure functions send to the Data Producer Step 4 (M) rApp a pull data request message, using the pull delivery details received in step 3. The Data Producer rApp responds with a pull data response, including in Step 5 (M) the payload the data to be collected. The requested data have been delivered to the Data management and Ends when exposure functions for collection. Exceptions n/a The Data management and exposure functions have collected the Post Conditions requested data. Traceability n/a !pragma teoz true participant “rApp” as rApp participant “Data management and\n exposure functions” as dme diagram.

### 7.5.5 Required data.
For the Request data request, the Data management and exposure functions provide data instance information. Data instance information includes data type identifier, scope (i.e., filter on the data), and optional constraints, e.g., time interval (i.e., start time and end time), etc. For Request data response, the Data Producer rApp provides pull delivery details. The pull delivery details are used to locate the requested data instance, e.g., using a URI.
> NOTE: A request identifier, assigned by the service producer, can be a part of pull delivery details if necessary, during
the protocol design stage. For Pull data request, the Data management and exposure functions use the pull delivery details provided in the Request data response to locate the data. For Pull data response, the rApp provides the requested data.

## 7.6 DME use case 6: The DME functions subscribe data for collection from a Data Producer rApp.

### 7.6.1 Overview
This use case describes how the DME functions subscribe data for collection from a Data Producer rApp, update the data subscription, query the data subscription, obtain the data, query the status of the data subscription, and terminate the data subscription.

### 7.6.2 Background and goal of the use case.
The Data subscription service and Data delivery service procedures are defined as part of Data management and exposure services in R1GAP [1]. The Data management and exposure functions subscribe data from a Data Producer rApp for collection, update the data subscription, query the data subscription, and its status, and terminate the data subscription. The Data Producer rApp delivers the requested data.

### 7.6.3 Entities/resources involved in the use case.
1) Data management and exposure functions a. support functionality to request subscription to data, update the data subscription, query the data subscription, query the subscription status, and termination of the subscription, b. support functionality to obtain the data for collection. 2) Data Producer rApp a. supports functionality to subscribe to data, b. supports functionality to update a data subscription, c. supports functionality to query a data subscription, d. supports functionality to terminate a data subscription, e. supports functionality to provide data to the DME functions, f. supports functionality to provide the status of data subscriptions.

### 7.6.4 Solutions

#### 7.6.4.1 DME functions subscribe data for collection from a Data producer rApp.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use The Data management and exposure functions obtain data they intend to Goal collect from a Data Producer rApp via the subscribe data procedure. − rApp in the role of Data Producer. − Data management and exposure functions: entity in the role Actors and Roles of Data subscription service Consumer and Pull data service Consumer and/or Push data service Producer and/or owner of the point to multipoint data stream configuration. If point to multipoint data stream is used as delivery method, data stream Assumptions endpoint is configured as part of preconditions, or the configuration may also take place as part of the subscription. − rApp is deployed and authenticated. − Data management and exposure functions have the data Preconditions type identifier of the needed data. − For point to multipoint data stream delivery method, the data stream endpoint has been configured. The Data management and exposure functions initiate the Subscribe data Begins when procedure to collect a data instance. The Data management and exposure functions send to the Data Producer Step 1 (M) rApp a subscribe data request to subscribe the data to be collected providing Data instance information. Alternative If point to multipoint data stream is used as delivery method, the Data procedure management and exposure functions provide a data stream endpoint. The Data management and exposure functions send to the Data Producer Step 2 (M) rApp a subscribe data request to subscribe the data to be collected providing Data instance information and data stream endpoint. Step 3 (M) The Data Producer rApp validates the request. Step 4 (M) The Data Producer rApp creates the subscription. The Data Producer rApp replies with a subscribe data response message, Step 5 (M) including the subscription identifier. Alternative Each time a set of data becomes available for delivery, Steps 5-7 are procedure executed if pull data is used as the data delivery method. The Data Producer rApp sends to the Data management and exposure Step 6 (M) functions a Notify data availability message, including details how to pull the requested data and the subscription identifier. The Data management and exposure functions send a pull data request Step 7 (M) message, using the pull delivery details obtained in step 5. The Data Producer rApp responds with a pull data response, including the Step 8 (M) data to be collected. Alternative Each time a set of data becomes available for delivery, Step 8 is executed procedure if push data is used as the data delivery method. The Data Producer rApp sends to the Data management and exposure Step 9 (M) functions a push data message, including the subscription identifier and the data to be collected. Alternative Each time a set of data becomes available for delivery, Step 10 is executed procedure if point to multipoint data stream is used as the delivery method. Step 10 (M) The Data Producer rApp send the data-to-data stream endpoint. The subscribed data instance has been delivered for collection to the Data Ends when management and exposure functions. Exceptions n/a The Data management and exposure functions have collected the needed Post Conditions data. Traceability REQ-R1-DME-Data subscription-FUN1, REQ-R1-DME-Data delivery-FUN1 !pragma teoz true participant “rApp” as rApp participant “Data management and\n exposure functions” as dme else Point to multipoint data stream delivery method end else Push data delivery method else Point to multipoint data stream delivery method end end diagram.

#### 7.6.4.2 DME functions terminate the data subscription.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal Data management and exposure functions terminate the data subscription. − rApp in the role of Data Producer Actors and Roles − Data management and exposure functions in the role of Data subscription service Consumer Assumptions n/a Preconditions The DME functions have subscribed data. Begins when The DME functions determine to terminate the data subscription. The DME functions send the Unsubscribe data request with subscription ID as Step 1 (M) parameter. Step 2 (M) The rApp validates the request. Step 3 (M) The rApp removes the data subscription. Step 4 (M) The rApp responds to the request. Ends when The DME functions have terminated the data subscription. Exceptions n/a Post Conditions n/a Traceability REQ-R1-DME-Data subscription-FUN2 !pragma teoz true participant rApp as rApp participant "Data management and\n exposure functions" as DME

#### 7.6.4.3 DME functions update a data subscription.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal Data management and exposure functions update a data subscription. − rApp in the role of Data Producer Actors and Roles − Data management and exposure functions in the role of Data subscription service Consumer Assumptions n/a Preconditions The DME functions have subscribed to data instance. Begins when The DME functions determine to update a data subscription. The DME functions send the Update data subscription request with Step 1 (M) subscription ID and data subscription update information as parameter. Step 2 (M) The rApp validates the request. Step 3 (M) The rApp updates data subscription. Step 4 (M) The rApp responds to the request. Ends when The DME functions have updated the data subscription. Exceptions n/a Post Conditions n/a Traceability REQ-R1-DME-Data subscription-FUN3 !pragma teoz true participant rApp as rApp participant "Data management and\n exposure functions" as DME update information)

#### 7.6.4.4 DME functions query a data subscription.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal Data management and exposure functions query a data subscription. − rApp in the role of Data Producer Actors and Roles − Data management and exposure functions in the role of Data subscription service Consumer Assumptions n/a Preconditions The DME functions have subscribed to data instance. Begins when The DME functions determine to query a data subscription. The DME functions send the Query data subscription request with Step 1 (M) subscription ID as parameter. Step 2 (M) The rApp validates the request. Step 3 (M) The rApp responds to the request with data subscription information. Ends when The DME functions have queried the data subscription. Exceptions n/a Post Conditions n/a Traceability REQ-R1-DME-Data subscription-FUN4 !pragma teoz true participant rApp as rApp participant "Data management and\n exposure functions" as DME

#### 7.6.4.5 DME functions query status of data subscription.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Data management and exposure functions query status of a created data Goal subscription. − rApp in the role of Data Producer Actors and Roles − Data management and exposure functions in the role of Data subscription service Consumer Assumptions n/a Preconditions The DME functions have subscribed to data instance. The DME functions determine the need to query the status a data Begins when subscription. The DME functions send the Query data subscription status request with Step 1 (M) subscription ID as parameter. Step 2 (M) The rApp validates the request. Step 3 (M) The rApp responds to the request with the status of the data subscription. Ends when The DME functions have queried the status of data subscription. Exceptions n/a Post Conditions n/a Traceability REQ-R1-DME-Data subscription-FUN1 !pragma teoz true participant rApp as rApp participant "Data management and\n exposure functions" as DME

### 7.6.5 Required data.
In the subscribe data request, the Data management and exposure functions provide data instance information. Data instance information includes the data type identifier, scope (i.e., filter on the data), periodicity of collection and additional optional constraints periodicity of reporting, etc. If point to multipoint data stream is used as delivery method, the Data management and exposure functions provide the data stream endpoint to Data Producer to send data. In the subscribe data response, the Data Producer rApp provides the subscription identifier. The subscription identifier is a unique identifier assigned by service Producer to identify a specific subscription. In the update data subscription request, the Data management and exposure functions provide the subscription identifier and data subscription update information. In the query data subscription request, the Data management and exposure functions provide the subscription identifier. In the query data subscription response, the Data Producer rApp provides the data subscription information. In the unsubscribe data request, the Data management and exposure functions provide the subscription identifier. In the notify data availability message, the Data Producer rApp provides pull delivery details (e.g., a URI) and the subscription identifier. In the pull data request, the Data management and exposure functions use the pull delivery details provided in the notify data availability message to locate the data. In the pull data response, the Data Producer rApp provides a set of data for collection. In the query data subscription status request, the Data management and exposure functions provide the subscription identifier. In the query data subscription status response, the Data Producer rApp provides the data subscription status information. In the push data message, the Data Producer rApp provides the subscription identifier and a set of data for collection. When point to multipoint data stream is used, Data Producer rApp sends the data to the data stream endpoint.

## 7.7 DME use case 7: A Data Consumer rApp subscribes data for consumption using the Data request and subscription service.

### 7.7.1 Overview
This use case describes how a Data Consumer rApp subscribes data it needs to consume, update the data subscription, query the data subscription obtains the data, and terminates the data subscription.

### 7.7.2 Background and goal of the use case
The Data subscription service and Data delivery service procedures are defined as part of Data management and exposure services in R1GAP [1].

# A Data Consumer rApp will be able to subscribe data based on the DME type information it is aware of e.g., from discovery or configuration, update the data subscription, query the data subscription, and terminate the data subscription using Data
management and exposure procedures. Data management and exposure functions deliver the subscribed data using Data delivery services.

### 7.7.3 Entities/resources involved in the use case.
1) Data management and exposure functions a. support services that allow an rApp to subscribe data, update the data subscription, query the data subscription and terminate the data subscription, b. deliver the subscribed data to an rApp that has subscribed. 2) rApp a. supports functionality to initiate a data subscription, b. supports functionality to initiate an update of a data subscription, c. supports functionality to initiate a query of a data subscription, d. supports functionality to initiate the termination of a data subscription, e. supports functionality to obtain the subscribed data.

### 7.7.4 Solutions

#### 7.7.4.1 Subscribe data and delivery of subscribed data.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use rApp subscribes the data it needs to consume, and the subscribed data is Goal delivered. − rApp in the role of Data management and exposure services Consumer. Actors and Roles − Data management and exposure functions in the role of Data management and exposure services Producer. If point to multipoint data stream is used as delivery method, data stream Assumptions endpoint configured as part of preconditions, or the configuration may also take place as part of the subscription. − The rApp is authorized to access the Data management and exposure services, − The rApp has obtained the DME type information e.g., by Preconditions discovery or configuration. − For point to multipoint data stream delivery method, data stream endpoint has been configured by Data management and exposure functions. Begins when The rApp determines the need to subscribe data it needs to consume. The rApp subscribes data that it needs to consume with rAppId and Data Step 1 (M) instance information as parameters. The Data management and exposure functions check for authorization with Step 2 (M) SME functions whether the rApp is authorized to subscribe data. Step 3 (M) The Data management and exposure functions validate the request. Step 4 (M) The Data management and exposure functions create the subscription. The Data management and exposure functions respond to the request with Step 5 (M) subscription ID as a parameter. Alternative If point to multipoint data stream is used as a delivery method, the Data procedure management and exposure functions provide the data stream endpoint. The Data management and exposure functions respond to the request with Step 6 (M) subscription ID as a parameter and data stream endpoint. Alternative Each time a set of subscribed data becomes available for delivery, Steps 7-9 procedure are e e ted i “ ll data” is sed as the data deli ery method. The Data management and exposure functions notify the availability of data Step 7 (M) with subscription ID and pull delivery details as parameters. The rApp send a pull data request based on the pull delivery details received Step 8 (M) in the previous step. The Data management and exposure functions respond to the pull data Step 9 (M) request with data payload as a parameter. Alternative Each time a set of subscribed data becomes available for delivery, Step 10 is procedure e e ted i the “ sh data” is sed as the data deli ery method. The Data management and exposure functions send a push data message Step 10 (M) with subscription ID and data payload as parameters. Alternative Each time a set of data becomes available for delivery, Step 11 is executed if procedure point to multipoint data stream is used as the data delivery method. Step 11 (M) rApp fetches the data from the data stream endpoint. Ends when The rApp has terminated the subscription. Exceptions n/a Post Conditions The rApp has the data it determined it needed. Traceability REQ-R1-DME-Data subscription-FUN1, REQ-R1-DME-Data delivery-FUN1 !pragma teoz true participant rApp as rApp participant "Data management and\n exposure functions" as DME note right Check authorization in collaboration with SME functions Alt Pull or push delivery method else Point to multipoint data stream delivery method end else Push data delivery method else Point to multipoint data stream delivery method end end

#### 7.7.4.2 Terminate data subscription.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal rApp terminates the data subscription. − rApp in the role of Data management and exposure services Consumer. Actors and Roles − Data management and exposure functions in the role of Data management and exposure services Producer. Assumptions n/a Preconditions The rApp has created a data subscription. Begins when The rApp determines to terminate the data subscription. The rApp sends the Unsubscribe data request with rAppId and subscription ID Step 1 (M) as parameters. The Data management and exposure functions check for authorization with Step 2 (M) SME functions whether the rApp is authorized to terminate subscriptions. Step 3 (M) The Data management and exposure functions validate the request. Step 4(M) The Data management and exposure functions remove the subscription. Step 5 (M) The Data management and exposure functions respond to the request. Ends when rApp has terminated the data subscription. Exceptions n/a Post Conditions n/a Traceability REQ-R1-DME-Data subscription-FUN2 !pragma teoz true participant rApp as rApp participant "Data management and\n exposure functions" as DME note right Check authorization in collaboration with SME functions

#### 7.7.4.3 Update a data subscription.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal rApp update a data subscription. − rApp in the role of Data management and exposure services Consumer. Actors and Roles − Data management and exposure functions in the role of Data management and exposure services Producer. Assumptions n/a Preconditions The rApp has subscribed to data instance. Begins when The rApp determines to update a data subscription. The rApp sends the Update data subscription request with rAppId, Step 1 (M) subscription ID and data subscription update information as parameters. The Data management and exposure functions check for authorization with Step 2 (M) SME functions whether the rApp is authorized to update a data subscription. Step 3 (M) The Data management and exposure functions validate the request. Step 4(M) The Data management and exposure functions updates the data subscription. Step 5 (M) The Data management and exposure functions respond to the request. Ends when rApp has updated the data subscription. Exceptions n/a Post Conditions n/a Traceability REQ-R1-DME-Data subscription-FUN3 !pragma teoz true participant rApp as rApp participant "Data management and\n exposure functions" as DME subscription update information) note right Check authorization in collaboration with SME functions

#### 7.7.4.4 Query a data subscription.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal rApp query a data subscription. − rApp in the role of Data management and exposure services Consumer. Actors and Roles − Data management and exposure functions in the role of Data management and exposure services Producer. Assumptions n/a Preconditions The rApp has subscribed to data instance. Begins when The rApp determines to query a data subscription. The rApp sends the Query data subscription request with rAppId, subscription Step 1 (M) ID as parameters. The Data management and exposure functions check for authorization with Step 2 (M) SME functions whether the rApp is authorized to query a data subscription. Step 3 (M) The Data management and exposure functions validate the request. The Data management and exposure functions respond to the request with Step 4 (M) the data subscription information. Ends when rApp has queried the data subscription. Exceptions n/a Post Conditions n/a Traceability REQ-R1-DME-Data subscription-FUN4 !pragma teoz true participant rApp as rApp participant "Data management and\n exposure functions" as DME note right Check authorization in collaboration with SME functions

### 7.7.5 Required data.
The rApp defines the data it needs to consume in data instance information parameter. Data instance information includes data type identifier, scope (i.e., filter on the data), periodicity of collection and additional optional constraints e.g., periodicity of reporting., etc. A subscription ID is a unique identifier per subscription assigned by the Data management and exposure functions. If point to multipoint data stream is used as delivery method, the Data management and exposure functions provide the data stream endpoint. The rApp requests the Data management and exposure functions with rAppId and subscription identifier as parameters to terminate the data subscription. In the update data subscription request, the rApp provides the rAppId, subscription ID and data subscription update information. In the query data subscription request, the rApp provides the rAppId and subscription identifier. In the query data subscription response, the Data management and exposure functions provide the data subscription information. In the notify data availability message, the Data management and exposure functions provide pull delivery details (e.g., a URI) and the subscription identifier. In the pull data request, the rApp uses the pull delivery details provided in the notify data availability message to locate the data. In the pull data response, the Data management and exposure functions provide a set of data for consumption. In the push data message, the Data management and exposure functions provide the subscription identifier and a set of data for consumption. When point to multipoint data stream is used, rApp fetches the data from data stream endpoint.

# 8 Use cases for RAN OAM-Related Services

## 8.1 RAN OAM-Related use case 1: Alarm query.

### 8.1.1 Overview
This use case allows an rApp acting as Service Consumer to query alarm information.

### 8.1.2 Background and goal of the use case
An rApp acting as Service Consumer can query from the Fault management service Producer information about an individual alarm, a set of alarms matching provided filtering criteria or all active alarms available in the alarm list.

### 8.1.3 Entities/resources involved in the use case.
1) RAN OAM-related functions as Fault management service Producer. a. receive the request to query alarm information, b. provide the response of success or failure result to the Query alarm information request. 2) rApp a. supports functionality to initiate the procedure to query alarm information.

### 8.1.4 Solutions

#### 8.1.4.1 Query alarm information
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use case The rApp obtains alarm information from the Fault management service Goal Producer. − rApp in the role of Service Consumer that queries alarm information. Actors and Roles − RAN AOM-related functions in the role of Fault management service Producer that provides alarm information in response to the alarm queries. Assumptions n/a Preconditions The rApp is deployed and authorized to query alarm information. Begins when The rApp determines the need to query alarm information. The rApp queries alarm information from the RAN OAM-related functions Step 1 (M) by providing the rAppId and optional query information that determines the requested result set. The RAN OAM-related functions check whether the rApp is authorized to Step 2 (M) query alarm information. The RAN OAM-related functions validate the query information if it has Step 3 (M) been provided with the request. Step 4 (M) The Ran OAM-related functions respond to the rApp with a success result along with the requested alarm information. Ends when The rApp was able to query alarm information. n/a Exceptions Post Conditions n/a Traceability n/a !pragma teoz true participant "rapp" as rapp participant "RAN OAM-related functions" as fmsp note right Check authorization in collaboration with SME functions

### 8.1.5 Required data.
The Query alarm information request contains the rAppId and optional query information. The query information determines the requested alarm information, for instance a single alarm with a particular alarm ID, all alarms in the alarm list or a subset of these alarms that match a set of filtering parameters. The Query alarm information response contains the requested alarm information scoped by the query information provided in the request.

## 8.2 RAN OAM-Related use case 2: Alarm acknowledgement /
unacknowledgement.

### 8.2.1 Overview
This use case allows an rApp acting as Service Consumer to acknowledge and unacknowledge an alarm with the Fault management service Producer.

### 8.2.2 Background and goal of the use case
An rApp acting as Service Consumer can acknowledge and unacknowledge an individual alarm managed by the Fault management service Producer.

### 8.2.3 Entities/resources involved in the use case.
1) RAN OAM-related functions in the role of Fault management service Producer. a. receive the request to change the acknowledgement state of an alarm, b. store the alarm acknowledgement state information, c. provide the response of success or failure result to the Change alarm acknowledgement state request. 2) rApp a. supports functionality to initiate the procedure to change the acknowledgement state of an alarm.

### 8.2.4 Solutions

#### 8.2.4.1 Change alarm acknowledgement state
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use case Goal The rApp requests the Service Producer to acknowledge an alarm. − rApp in the role of Service Consumer that requests to acknowledge an alarm. Actors and Roles − RAN OAM-related functions in the role of Fault management service Producer that handles the request to acknowledge an alarm. The rApp is aware of the alarm ID of the alarm to be acknowledged or Assumptions unacknowledged. The rApp is deployed and is authorized to consume the Fault management Preconditions service. Begins when The rApp determines the need to acknowledge an alarm. The rApp requests the RAN OAM-related functions to change the acknowledgement state of an alarm by providing the rAppId, the alarm ID Step 1 (M) and the new acknowledgement state (i.e., acknowledged, or unacknowledged). The RAN OAM-related functions check whether the rApp is authorized to Step 2 (M) change the acknowledgement state of alarms. The RAN OAM-related functions validate the alarm ID that has been Step 3 (M) provided with the request. The RAN OAM-related functions persist the new state of the alarm Step 4 (M) identified by the alarm ID to represent the alarm acknowledgement state change. Step 5 (M) The RAN OAM-related functions respond to the rApp with a success result. Ends when The rApp was able to acknowledge an alarm. n/a Exceptions The state of the alarm identified by the alarm ID has been changed Post Conditions according to the request. Traceability n/a !pragma teoz true participant "rapp" as rapp participant "RAN OAM-related functions" as fmsp newAlarmState) note right Check authorization in collaboration with SME functions

### 8.2.5 Required data.
The Change alarm acknowledgement state request contains the rAppId, the alarm ID of the alarm to be acknowledged or unacknowledged and the requested new acknowledgement state of the alarm.
> NOTE: If and how the RAN OAM-related functions ensure that the alarm IDs from multiple network elements do not
collide is not defined in the present document.

## 8.3 RAN OAM-Related use case 3: Performance information query.

### 8.3.1 Overview
This use case allows an rApp acting as a Service Consumer to query the performance information pertaining to the managed entities.

### 8.3.2 Background and goal of the use case
An rApp acting as a Service Consumer can query the performance information pertaining to one or more managed entities from the Performance management Service Producer.

### 8.3.3 Entities/resources involved in the use case.
1) RAN OAM-related functions as Performance Management Service Producer a. receives the request to query the performance information related to one or more managed entities. b. provides the response of success or failure result to the performance information query request. 2) rApp a. supports functionality to initiate the procedure to query the performance information.

### 8.3.4 Solutions

#### 8.3.4.1 Query performance information
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use case The rApp obtains performance information from the Performance Goal management service Producer. − rApp in the role of Service Consumer that queries performance information pertaining to one or more managed entities. Actors and Roles − RAN OAM-related functions in the role of Performance Management service Producer that provide the requested performance information. Assumptions n/a Preconditions The rApp is deployed and authorized to query performance information. Begins when The rApp determines the need to query performance information. The rApp queries performance information from the RAN OAM-related functions by providing the rAppId, optional query criteria and information Step 1 (M) about the managed entities, along with the desired performance information, that determines the requested result set. The RAN OAM-related functions check whether the rApp is authorized to Step 2 (M) query the performance information. The RAN OAM-related functions validate the performance information Step 3 (M) criteria if they were provided with the request. Step 4 (M) The RAN OAM-related functions respond to the rApp with a success result along with the desired performance management information. Ends when The rApp was able to receive the performance information response. n/a Exceptions Post Conditions n/a Traceability REQ-R1-OAm-PMservice-FUN1 !pragma teoz true participant "rapp" as rapp participant "RAN OAM-related functions" as fmsp note right Check authorization in collaboration with SME functions

### 8.3.5 Required data.
The request for querying performance information contains the rAppId, and query criteria (including information about the related managed entities and about the requested performance information). The performance information query response is scoped by the information provided in the request.
> NOTE: The querying of performance information, and how this relates to the Data management and exposure services,
is not defined in the present document.

## 8.4 RAN OAM-Related use case 4: Retrieve configuration
schemas.

### 8.4.1 Overview
This use case allows an rApp acting as a CM service Consumer to retrieve information pertaining to the configuration schemas of one or more managed entities.

### 8.4.2 Background and goal of the use case
An rApp acting as a CM service Consumer can retrieve information pertaining to one or more managed entities from the Configuration management service Producer.

### 8.4.3 Entities/resources involved in the use case.
1) RAN OAM-related functions as Configuration management service Producer a. receives the Get schemas request to retrieve configuration schema information related to one or more managed entities, b. provides the response of success or failure result to the Get schema request. 2) rApp a. supports functionality to initiate Get schemas procedure to retrieve the configuration schema information.

### 8.4.4 Solutions

#### 8.4.4.1 Retrieve configuration schema information
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use case The rApp obtains configuration schema information from the Goal Configuration management service Producer. − rApp in the role of CM service Consumer that request the configuration schema information pertaining to one or more managed entities. Actors and Roles − RAN OAM-related functions in the role of Configuration management service Producer that provide the requested configuration schema information. Assumptions n/a The rApp is deployed and authorized to request the configuration Preconditions schema information. The rApp determines the need to request the configuration schema Begins when information. The rApp req ests “Get s hemas” to obtain the configuration schema information from the RAN OAM-related functions by providing the Step 1 (M) rAppId, optional query criteria and information about the managed entities, along with the desired configuration schema information, that determines the requested result set. The RAN OAM-related functions check whether the rApp is authorized Step 2 (M) to request Get Schemas to retrieve configuration schema information. The RAN OAM-related functions validate the information provided with Step 3 (M) Get Schema request, if they were provided with the request. Step 4 (M) The RAN OAM-related functions respond to the rApp with a success result along with the desired configuration schema information. Ends when The rApp was able to receive the configuration schema information. Exceptions n/a Post Conditions n/a Traceability REQ-R1-OAM-CmService-FUN1 !pragma teoz true participant "rapp" as rapp participant "RAN OAM-related functions" as cmsp note right Check authorization in Collaboration with SME functions

### 8.4.5 Required data.
The Get schemas request for retrieval of configuration schemas information contains the rAppId, and query criteria (including information about the related managed entities and about the requested configuration schemas information). The Get schemas response is scoped by the information provided in the request.
> NOTE: It is up to the design of the authorization mechanism whether the rAppId will be passed as a separate piece of
information or will be embedded in or implied by the authorization information.

## 8.5 RAN OAM-Related use case 5: Read configuration data.

### 8.5.1 Overview
This use case allows an rApp acting as a CM service Consumer to retrieve information pertaining to the configuration data of one or more managed entities.

### 8.5.2 Background and goal of the use case
An rApp acting as a CM service Consumer can retrieve configuration data pertaining to one or more managed entities from the Configuration management service Producer.

### 8.5.3 Entities/resources involved in the use case.
1) RAN OAM-related functions as Configuration management service Producer. a. receives the request to read configuration data related to one or more managed entities. b. provides the response of success or failure result to the read configuration data request. 2) rApp a. supports functionality to initiate procedure to read configuration data.

### 8.5.4 Solutions

#### 8.5.4.1 Read configuration data.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use case The rApp obtains configuration data from the Configuration Goal management service Producer. − rApp in the role of Service Consumer that request the configuration data pertaining to one or more managed entities. Actors and Roles − RAN OAM-related functions in the role of Configuration Management service Producer that provide the requested configuration data information. rApp can optionally query configuration schema before requesting to Assumptions read configuration data. Preconditions The rApp is deployed and authorized to request the configuration data. Begins when The rApp determines the need to request the configuration data. The rApp requests "Read configuration” to obtain the configuration data from the RAN OAM-related functions by providing the rAppId, optional Step 1 (M) query criteria and information about the managed entities, along with information about the desired configuration data, that determines the requested result set. The RAN OAM-related functions check whether the rApp is authorized Step 2 (M) to Read configuration data. The RAN OAM-related functions validate information provided with the Step 3 (M) Read configuration request. Step 4 (M) The RAN OAM-related functions respond to the rApp with a success result along with the desired configuration data. Ends when The rApp was able to receive the configuration data. Exceptions n/a Post Conditions n/a Traceability REQ-R1-OAM-CmService-FUN2 !pragma teoz true participant "rapp" as rapp participant "RAN OAM-related functions" as cmsp note right Check authorization in Collaboration with SME functions

### 8.5.5 Required data.
The read configuration request for reading configuration data contains the rAppId, and query criteria (including information about the related managed entities and about the requested configuration data information). The read configuration response is scoped by the information provided in the request.
> NOTE: It is up to the design of the authorization mechanism whether the rAppId will be passed as a separate piece of
information or will be embedded in or implied by the authorization information.

## 8.6 RAN OAM-Related use case 6: Writing configuration changes.

### 8.6.1 Overview
This use case allows an rApp acting as a CM service Consumer to write information pertaining to the configuration changes of one or more managed entities.

### 8.6.2 Background and goal of the use case
An rApp acting as a CM service Consumer can write information pertaining to the configuration changes for one or more managed entities through the CM service Producer.

### 8.6.3 Entities/resources involved in the use case.
1) RAN OAM-related functions as CM service Producer. a. receives the Write configuration changes request to write configuration change information related to one or more managed entities. b. provides the response of success or failure result to the Service Consumer that initiated the Write configuration request. 2) rApp a. supports functionality to initiate Write configuration changes request to write the configuration change information.

### 8.6.4 Solutions

#### 8.6.4.1 Write configuration changes.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use case The rApp writes configuration change information to the CM service Goal Producer. − rApp in the role of CM service Consumer that requests writing the configuration change information pertaining to one or more managed entities. Actors and Roles − RAN OAM-related functions in the role of CM service Producer that initiate provisioning the requested configuration changes. rApp optionally query configuration schema before preparing the write Assumptions configuration change information. The rApp is deployed and authorized to write the configuration change information. Optionally the rApp is subscribed to receive information Preconditions related to write configuration change status from RAN OAM-related function through Notification or polling. The rApp determines the need to write the configuration change Begins when information. The rApp sends a Write configuration changes request to write the configuration change information to the RAN OAM-related functions by Step 1 (M) providing the rAppId, along with the desired configuration changes information for one or more managed entities. The RAN OAM-related functions check whether the rApp is authorized Step 2 (M) to initiate the Write configuration changes request. The RAN OAM-related functions validate the information provided in the Step 3 (M) Write configuration changes request. The RAN OAM-related functions create a Write configuration job from Step 4 (M) the information provided in the Write configuration changes request. Step 5 (M) RAN OAM-related functions respond to the rApp with information about the job created such as job identifier. The rApp can use this information for querying or receiving notification about the status / result of the requested configuration change. Ends when The rApp was able to receive the Write configuration response. Exceptions n/a Post Conditions n/a Traceability REQ-R1-OAM-CmService-FUN3. !pragma teoz true Autonumber participant "rApp" as rapp participant "RAN OAM-related functions" as cmsp information) note right Check authorization in Collaboration with SME functions

### 8.6.5 Required data.
The request for writing configuration changes information contains the rAppId and write configuration information for one or more managed entities (e.g., list of attributes and desired values). The RAN OAM-related functions respond to the rApp with configuration job information created, e.g., job identifier. The rApp can use this job information for querying or receiving notifications about the status / result of the requested configuration change which includes e.g.:
- a success result if all the requested configuration changes were written in the related managed entities or
- a partial success result if some but not all requested configuration changes were written in the related mentioned
managed entities, optionally with further information about the reason of the errors or
- a failure result if one of the requested configuration changes were written in the related managed entities, optionally
with further information about the reason of the errors.

# 9 Use cases for O2-Related Services
> NOTE: Use cases for O2-Related services are not defined in the present document.

# 10 Use cases for A1-Related Services

## 10.1 Void

## 10.2 Void

## 10.3 A1-Related use case 1: Query A1 policy type identifiers

### 10.3.1 Overview
This use case provides the description and requirements for querying the A1 policy type identifiers.

### 10.3.2 Background and goal of the use case
Query A1 policy type identifers procedure is defined as part of A1 policy management service in R1GAP [1].

### 10.3.3 Entities/resources involved in the use case.
1) A1 Policy functions a. support functionality to allow rApps to query the A1 policy type identifiers. 2) rApp a. initiates the Query A1 policy type identifiers procedure.

### 10.3.4 Solutions

#### 10.3.4.1 Query A1 policy type identifiers.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use The rApp retrieves the list of identifiers for all the available A1 policy Goal types. − rApp in the role of A1 policy management service Consumer. Actors and Roles − A1 policy functions in the role of A1 policy management service Producer. Assumptions rApp is authorized to consume the A1 policy management service. Preconditions n/a The rApp determines the need to query the identifiers for all the Begins when available A1 policy types. The rApp queries the available A1 policy type identifiers, providing Step 1 (M) the rAppId and optional selection criteria (Near-RT RIC identifier and/or typename (see 3 in A1AP [5], clause 6.2.3.1.)). The A1 policy management functions validate if the rApp is Step 2 (M) authorized to query A1 policy type identifiers. The A1 policy management functions respond with the list of identifiers for all the available A1 policy types that matches with the Step 3 (M) query criteria. Further, the response includes for each A1 policy type identifier a list of Near-RT RIC identifiers of those Near-RT RICs that support the related A1 policy type. Ends when The rApp has the identifiers of all the available A1 policy types. Exceptions n/a Post Conditions The rApp has the identifiers of all the available A1 policy types. Traceability REQ-R1-A1P- FUN3. 'https://plantuml.com/sequence-diagram’ !pragma teoz true participant rApp as rApp participant “A1 policy functions “ as A1P note right Check authorization in collaboration with SME functions identifers) Deactivate A1P

### 10.3.5 Required data
For querying the A1 policy type identifiers, the rApp sends a query request to the A1 policy functions and optionally provides a Near-RT RIC identifier and/or a typename (see in A1AP [5], clause 6.2.3.1.3) as a selection criterion. If the rApp queries with no selection criteria, the A1 policy functions respond with a list of A1 policy type identifiers. Further, the response includes for each A1 policy type identifier a list of Near-RT RIC identifiers of those Near-RT RICs that support the related A1 policy type. If the rApp queries with selection criteria, the A1 policy functions respond with a list of A1 policy type identifiers which match with the query criteria. Further, the response includes for each A1 policy type identifier a list of Near-RT RIC identifiers of those Near-RT RICs that support the related A1 policy type.

## 10.4 A1-Related use case 2: Query an A1 policy type

### 10.4.1 Overview
This use case provides the description and requirements for querying the information of an A1 policy type.

### 10.4.2 Background and goal of the use case
Query A1 policy type procedure is defined as part of A1 policy management service in R1GAP [1].

### 10.4.3 Entities/resources involved in the use case.
3) A1 Policy functions a. support functionality to allow rApps to query the information of an A1 policy type. 4) rApp a. initiates the Query A1 policy type procedure.

### 10.4.4 Solutions

#### 10.4.4.1 Query A1 policy type.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal The rApp retrieves information about A1 policy type. − rApp in the role of A1 policy management service Consumer. Actors and Roles − A1 policy functions in the role of A1 policy management service Producer. Assumptions rApp is authorized to consume the A1 policy management service. Preconditions rApp is aware of the A1 policy type identifier. The rApp determines the need to query the information of an A1 Begins when policy type. The rApp queries the information of an A1 policy type with the A1 Step 1 (M) policy functions by providing rAppId and an A1 policy type identifier. The A1 policy functions validate if the rApp is authorized to access Step 2 (M) the information of an A1 policy type. Step 3 (M) The A1 policy functions retrieve the policy type information. The A1 policy functions respond with the requested A1 policy type Step 4 (M) information. The rApp have received the information about the requested A1 Ends when policy type. Exceptions n/a Post Conditions The rApp have the information about the requested A1 policy type. Traceability REQ-R1-A1P- FUN1. 'https://plantuml.com/sequence-diagram’ !pragma teoz true participant rApp as rApp participant “A1 policy functions “ as A1P note right Check authorization in collaboration with SME functions Deactivate A1P

### 10.4.5 Required data
For querying an A1 policy type, the rApp provides the rAppId and an A1 policy type identifier. The A1 policy functions respond with the information about the A1 policy type.

## 10.5 A1-Related use case 3: Query A1 policy identifiers

### 10.5.1 Overview
This use case provides the description and requirements for querying the A1 policy identifiers.

### 10.5.2 Background and goal of the use case
Query A1 policy identifers procedure is defined as part of A1 policy management service in R1GAP [1].

### 10.5.3 Entities/resources involved in the use case.
1) A1 Policy functions a. support functionality to allow rApps to query the A1 policy identifiers. 2) rApp a. initiates the Query A1 policy identifiers procedure.

### 10.5.4 Solutions

#### 10.5.4.1 Query A1 policy identifiers.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal The rApp retrieves the existing A1 policy identifiers. − rApp in the role of A1 policy management service Consumer. Actors and Roles − A1 policy functions in the role of A1 policy management service Producer. Assumptions rApp is authorized to consume the A1 policy management service. Preconditions n/a Begins when The rApp determines the need to query the A1 policy identifiers. The rApp queries the A1 policy identifiers with the A1 policy Step 1 (M) functions and may provide an A1 policy type identifier and/or a Near RT RIC identifier. The A1 policy functions validate if the rApp is authorized to query A1 Step 2 (M) policy identifiers. The A1 policy functions respond with the list of A1 policy identifiers Step 3 (M) that matches with the query criteria. Ends when The rApp has the list of A1 policy identifiers. Exceptions n/a Post Conditions The rApp has the list of A1 policy identifiers. Traceability REQ-R1-A1P- FUN2. 'https://plantuml.com/sequence-diagram’ !pragma teoz true participant rApp as rApp participant “A1 policy functions “ as A1P note right Check authorization in collaboration with SME functions Deactivate A1P

### 10.5.5 Required data
For querying the A1 policy identifiers, the rApp optionally provides an A1 policy type identifier and/or a Near RT RIC identifier as a query parameter. The A1 policy functions respond with the list of A1 policy identifiers.

## 10.6 A1-related use case 4: Create, Query, Update and Delete an A1
policy

### 10.6.1 Overview
This use case enables rApps to create an A1 policy, query an A1 policy, update an A1 policy, and delete an A1 policy.

### 10.6.2 Background and goal of the use case
Create A1 policy, Query A1 policy, Update A1 policy, and Delete A1 policy procedures are defined as part of A1 policy management service in R1GAP [1].

### 10.6.3 Entities/resources involved in the use case.
3) A1 policy functions a. support functionality to allow rApps to request creating7., querying, updating and deleting an A1 policy. 4) rApp a. initiates the procedures for creating an A1 policy, querying an A1 policy, updating an A1 policy, and deleting an A1 policy.

### 10.6.4 Solutions

#### 10.6.4.1 Create a single A1 policy in an identified Near-RT RIC
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use The rApp initiates creation of an A1 policy in an identified Near-RT Goal RIC. − rApp in the role of the A1 policy management service Consumer. Actors and Roles − A1 policy functions in the role of the A1 policy management service Producer. Assumptions rApp is authorized to consume the A1 policy management service. Preconditions The rApp is aware about the A1 policy type. Begins when The rApp determines to create a new A1 policy. The rApp requests the A1 policy functions to create a new A1 policy Step 1 (M) of certain type by providing a policy type identifier, policy information, rApp identifier, and a Near-RT RIC identifier. The A1 policy functions validate if the rApp is authorized to create Step 2 (M) A1 policies. The A1 policy functions generate the A1 policy identifier. Step 3 (M) The A1 policy functions create a single A1 policy in the Near-RT RIC See A1UCR [6], Step 4 (M) corresponding to the given Near-RT RIC identifier. clause 6.3 The A1 policy functions store the mapping of A1 policy identifier to Step 5 (M) the Near-RT RIC identifier. The A1 policy functions respond to rApp with the A1 policy identifier Step 6(M) of the created A1 policy. Ends when The rApp has created a new A1 policy. Exceptions n/a An A1 policy exists and the rApp will be able to query, update and Post Conditions delete the A1 policy. Traceability REQ-R1-A1P- FUN9. 'https://plantuml.com/sequence-diagram’ !pragma teoz true participant rApp as rApp participant “A1 policy functions “ as A1P information, Near-RT RIC identifier, rAppId) note right Check authorization in collaboration with SME functions create single policy(see A1 UCR clause 6.3) Deactivate A1P

#### 10.6.4.2 Query an A1 policy
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal The rApp queries an existing A1 policy. − rApp in the role of an A1 policy management service Consumer. Actors and Roles − A1 policy functions in the role of an A1 policy management service Producer. The rApp is authorized to consume the A1 policy management Assumptions service. − The rApp is aware about the A1 policy identifier of the A1 policy that it wants to query. − A1 policy functions are aware of the Near-RT RIC Preconditions identifier corresponding to this A1 policy identifier so that it can query the A1 policy at the relevant Near-RT RIC instance. Begins when The rApp determines to query an existing A1 policy. The rApp requests the A1 policy functions to query an existing A1 Step 1 (M) policy by providing the A1 policy identifier, and its rApp identifier. The A1 policy functions validate if the rApp is authorized to query an Step 2 (M) A1 policy. A1 policy functions respond with the result of the A1 policy query Step 3 (M) See NOTE including policy information. Ends when The rApp has the A1 policy information. Exceptions n/a Post Conditions n/a Traceability REQ-R1-A1P- FUN9.
> NOTE: The A1 policy functions may use A1UCR [6], 6.4.3.2 Query single policy to retrieve the A1 policy information
from the relevant Near-RT RIC whenever an rApp queries an A1 policy. It may also choose to respond to the rApp query with the latest policy information previously received from the relevant Near-RT RIC. 'https://plantuml.com/sequence-diagram !pragma teoz true participant rApp as rApp participant "A1 policy functions " as A1P note right Check authorization in collaboration with SME functions Deactivate A1P

#### 10.6.4.3 Update an A1 policy
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal The rApp updates an existing A1 policy. − rApp in the role of an A1 policy management service Consumer. Actors and Roles − A1 policy functions in the role of an A1 policy management service Producer. The rApp is authorized to consume the A1 policy management Assumptions service. − The rApp is aware of the identifier of the A1 policy that it wants to update. − A1 policy functions are aware of the existing policy to be updated was created by the rApp. Preconditions − A1 policy functions are aware of the Near-RT RIC identifier corresponding to this A1 policy identifier so that it can update the A1 policy at the relevant Near- RT RIC instance. Begins when The rApp determines to update an existing A1 policy. The rApp requests the A1 policy functions to update an existing A1 Step 1 (M) policy by providing the A1 policy identifier, policy update information, rApp identifier. The A1 policy functions validate if the rApp is authorized to update Step 2 (M) an A1 policy. The A1 policy functions update a single A1 policy in the Near-RT See A1UCR [6] Step 3 (M) RIC. clause 6.5 The A1 policy functions respond with the result of the A1 policy Step 4 (M) update. Ends when The rApp has updated the A1 policy. Exceptions n/a Post Conditions The content of the A1 policy has changed. Traceability REQ-R1-A1P- FUN9. 'https://plantuml.com/sequence-diagram !pragma teoz true participant rApp as rApp participant "A1 policy functions " as A1P rApp Id) note right Check authorization in collaboration with SME functions

# 3 Update single policy(see A1 UCR clause 6.5)

#### 10.6.4.4 Delete an A1 policy
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal The rApp deletes an existing A1 policy. − rApp in the role of an A1 policy management service Consumer. Actors and Roles − A1 policy functions in the role of an A1 policy management service Producer. The rApp is authorized to consume A1 policy management service. Assumptions − The rApp is aware of the identifier of the A1 policy that it wants to delete. − A1 policy functions are aware of the existing policy to be deleted was created by the rApp. Preconditions − A1 policy functions are aware of the Near-RT RIC identifier corresponding to this A1 policy identifier so that it can delete the A1 policy at the relevant Near-RT RIC instance. Begins when The rApp determines to delete an existing A1 policy. The rApp requests the A1 policy functions to delete an existing A1 Step 1 (M) policy by providing the A1 policy identifier and rApp identifier. The A1 policy functions validate if the rApp is authorized to delete an Step 2 (M) A1 policy. The A1 policy functions delete a single A1 policy in the Near-RT See A1UCR [6] Step 3 (M) RIC. clause 6.6 Step 4(M) The A1 policy functions respond with the result of A1 policy delete. Ends when The rApp has deleted an A1 policy. Exceptions n/a Post Conditions The A1 policy has ceased to exist. Traceability REQ-R1-A1P- FUN9. 'https://plantuml.com/sequence-diagram !pragma teoz true participant rApp as rApp participant "A1 policy functions " as A1P note right Check authorization in collaboration with SME functions

# 3 Delete single policy(see A1 UCR clause 6.6)
Deactivate A1P

### 10.6.5 Required data
For creating an A1 policy of a certain type in a Near-RT RIC, the rApp provides an A1 policy type identifier, A1 policy information, its rApp identifier (rAppId) and, a Near-RT RIC identifier. The A1 policy functions respond with the A1 policy identifier of the created policy. For querying an A1 policy, the rApp provides an A1 policy identifier, and its rApp identifier (rAppId). The A1 policy functions respond with A1 policy information. For updating an A1 policy, the rApp provides an A1 policy identifier, A1 policy updated information, and its rApp identifier (rAppId). For deleting an A1 policy, the rApp provides an A1 policy identifier and its rApp identifier (rAppId).

## 10.7 A1-Related use case 5: Query the status of an A1 policy

### 10.7.1 Overview
This use case provides the description and requirements for querying the status of an A1 policy status.

### 10.7.2 Background and goal of the use case
Query A1 policy status procedure is defined as part of A1 policy management service in R1GAP [1].

### 10.7.3 Entities/resources involved in the use case.
1) A1 policy functions a. support functionality to allow rApps to query the status of an A1 policy. 2) rApp a. initiates the procedure for querying status of an A1 policy.

### 10.7.4 Solutions

#### 10.7.4.1 Query the status of an A1 policy.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal The rApp is informed about the status of an A1 policy. − rApp in the role of A1 policy management service Consumer. Actors and Roles − A1 policy functions in the role of A1 policy management service Producer. Assumptions rApp is authorized to use A1 policy management service. rApp is aware of the identifier of the A1 policy that it wants to get the Preconditions status for. Begins when The rApp determines the need to query the status of an A1 policy. The rApp queries the status of an A1 policy with A1 policy functions Step 1 (M) by providing an rAppId and A1 policy identifier. The A1 policy functions validate if the rApp is authorized to query the Step 2 (M) status of an A1 policy. The A1 policy functions respond with the status of the corresponding Step 3 (M) See NOTE A1 policy. Ends when The rApp has received the status of an A1 policy. Exceptions n/a Post Conditions The rApp has the status of an A1 policy. Traceability REQ-R1-A1P- FUN5.
> NOTE: The A1 policy functions may use A1UCR [6], clause 6.7.3.1 Query policy status, or A1UCR [6], 6.7.3.2 Notify
policy status change to respond with the latest status of the corresponding A1 policy 'https://plantuml.com/sequence-diagram’ !pragma teoz true participant rApp as rApp participant "A1 policy functions" as A1P note right Check authorization in collaboration with SME functions Deactivate A1P

### 10.7.5 Required data
For the Query A1 policy status request, the rApp provides the rAppId and the A1 policy identifier. The A1 policy functions respond with the status of the A1 policy. The status information of A1 policy is defined in A1TD [3].

## 10.8 A1-Related use case 6: Subscribe to status of an A1 policy.

### 10.8.1 Overview
This use case provides the description and requirements for subscribe to status of an A1 policy.

### 10.8.2 Background and goal of the use case
Subscribe to A1 policy status changes procedure is defined as part of A1 policy management service in R1GAP [1].

### 10.8.3 Entities/resources involved in the use case.
1) A1 Policy functions in the role of A1 policy management service Producer a. support functionality to allow rApps to subscribe to and unsubscribe from A1 policy status changes. b. support notifying the rApp regarding the changes in the status of an A1 policy. c. provide response of success or failure to subscribe to A1 policy status changes and unsubscribe to A1 policy status changes. 2) rApp a. supports functionality to initiate requests to subscribe to and unsubscribe from A1 policy status changes, b. supports functionality to accept notifications of status change of an A1 policy from A1 policy management service Producer.

### 10.8.4 Solutions

#### 10.8.4.1 Subscribe to A1 policy status change.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use The rApp subscribes to notifications about changes of the status of Goal an A1 policy.
- rApp in the role of A1 policy management service
Consumer. Actors and Roles
- A1 policy functions in the role of A1 policy management
service Producer. rApp is aware of the A1 policy identifier of the A1 policy that it is Assumptions interested in subscribing to status change notifications for. rApp is authorized to consume the A1 policy management service. Preconditions The rApp determines the need to subscribe to notifications, Begins when regarding changes in the status of an A1 policy. The rApp request the A1 policy functions to subscribe to notifications Step 1 (M) regarding changes in the status of an A1 policy by providing the rAppId and A1 policy identifier. The A1 policy functions check whether the rApp is authorized to Step 2 (M) send a subscription request. Step 3 (M) The A1 policy functions respond with subscription identifier. Ends when The rApp was able to subscribe to notifications. Exceptions n/a The rApp can receive notifications when there are any changes in the status of the A1 policy. Post Conditions The rApp can unsubscribe from status change notifications of the A1 policy. Traceability REQ-R1-A1P- FUN6. 'https://plantuml.com/sequence-diagram’ !pragma teoz true participant rApp as rApp participant “A1 policy functions “as A1P identifier) note right Check authorization in collaboration with SME functions Deactivate A1P

#### 10.8.4.2 Notify A1 policy status change.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal The rApp receives notifications about changes in the status of an A1 policy.
- rApp in the role of A1 policy management service Consumer.
Actors and Roles - A1 policy functions in the role of A1 policy management service Producer. Assumptions n/a The rApp has subscribed to notifications on changes in the status of an A1 Preconditions policy. The A1 policy functions determine to send notifications, regarding changes in Begins when the status of theA1 policy to the subscribed rApp. The A1 policy functions detect changes in status (i.e., an A1 policy status Step 1 (M) becomes enforced or not enforced). The A1 policy functions send notifications regarding the changes to the Step 2 (M) subscribed rApp with subscription identifier and information about status changes of the A1 policy. Ends when The rApp was able to process the changes in the status of the A1 policy. Exceptions n/a Post Conditions n/a Traceability REQ-R1-A1P- FUN7 ‘https://plantuml.com/sequence-diagram !pragma teoz true participant rApp as rApp participant “A1 policy functions “ as A1P A1P→A1P: detect the status change

#### 10.8.4.3 Unsubscribe from A1 policy status change.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal The rApp unsubscribes from A1 policy status change notifications. − rApp in the role of A1 policy management service Consumer. Actors and Roles − A1 policy functions in the role of A1 policy management service Producer. Assumptions n/a The rApp is authorized to unsubscribe from A1 policy status change Preconditions notifications. The rApp has subscribed to A1 policy status change notifications. Begins when The rApp determines to unsubscribe from A1 policy status change. The rApp requests the A1 policy functions to unsubscribe from A1 policy Step 1 (M) status changes with rAppId and subscription identifier. Step 2 (M) The A1 policy functions check whether the rApp is authorized to unsubscribe. Step 3 (M) The A1 policy functions send a response. Ends when The rApp was able to unsubscribe from A1 policy status change. Exceptions n/a Post Conditions The rApp is not subscribed to A1 policy status change. Traceability REQ-R1-A1P- FUN9 'https://plantuml.com/sequence-diagram !pragma teoz true participant rApp as rApp participant “A1 policy functions “ as A1P identifier) note right Check authorization in collaboration with SME functions

### 10.8.5 Required data
To receive notifications regarding changes in status change of an A1 policy, the rApp as A1 policy service Consumer subscribes to notifications by providing rAppId and A1 policy identifier. When the A1 policy functions have successfully processed the request, they respond by providing a subscription identifier. The A1 policy functions send notifications to the subscribed rApp when there are changes in status changes of the A1 policy by providing subscription identifier, and information about the changes (i.e., A1 policy status becomes enforced or not enforced). For unsubscribing from notifications, a subscribed rApp needs to provide the rAppId and subscription identifier.

# 11 Use cases for AI/ML Workflow Services

## 11.1 AI/ML workflow-related use case 1: AI/ML model registration
and deregistration

### 11.1.1 Overview
This use case enables an rApp as AI/ML model management and exposure services Consumer to register AI/ML models, query AI/ML model registration, update AI/ML model registrations and deregister AI/ML models.

### 11.1.2 Background and goal of the use case
An AI/ML model producer rApp can register an AI/ML model, query and update the registration of an AI/ML model and deregister an AI/ML model with the AI/ML workflow functions.

### 11.1.3 Entities/resources involved in the use case.
1) AI/ML workflow functions as AI/ML model management and exposure services Producer a. support the functionality to allow an rApp to register, query and update the registration of, and deregister an AI/ML model, b. provide the response of success or failure results to the register AI/ML model, query, and update AI/ML model registration, and deregister AI/ML model request. 2) rApp as AI/ML model management and exposure services Consumer a. support to initiate the procedure to register an AI/ML model, query and update the registration of an AI/ML model and deregister an AI/ML model.

### 11.1.4 Solutions

#### 11.1.4.1 Register AI/ML model.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal The AI/ML model producer rApp registers an AI/ML model. − rApp in the role of AI/ML model management and exposure services Consumer. Actors and Roles − AI/ML workflow functions in the role of AI/ML model management and exposure services Producer. The AI/ML model that they intend to register in AI/ML workflow Assumptions functions has not been registered before. − The rApp is authorized to access the AI/ML model management and exposure services for registering an Preconditions AI/ML model. − The AI/ML model is certified and onboarded in SMO run time library. The AI/ML model producer rApp determines the need to register an Begins when AI/ML model. The rApp requests the AI/ML workflow functions to register the Step 1 (M) AI/ML model by providing the rAppId and AI/ML model-related information. The AI/ML workflow functions check whether the rApp is authorized Step 2 (M) to register an AI/ML model. The AI/ML workflow functions validate the register AI/ML model Step 3 (M) request. Step 4(M) The AI/ML workflow functions register the AI/ML model. The AI/ML workflow functions respond to rApp with successful AI/ML Step 5(M) model registration along with AI/ML model registration identifier. The AI/ML model producer rApp was able to register the AI/ML Ends when model. Exceptions n/a The AI/ML model is discoverable, and the rApp can query, update, Post Conditions or delete the model registration. Traceability REQ-R1-AIML-Registermodel-FUN1 !pragma teoz true participant "rApp" as src participant "AI/ML workflow functions" as ML note right Check authorization in collaboration with SME functions

#### 11.1.4.2 Query AI/ML model registration.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use The AI/ML model producer rApp queries an AI/ML model Goal registration. − rApp in the role of AI/ML model management and exposure services Consumer. Actors and Roles − AI/ML workflow functions in the role of AI/ML model management and exposure services Producer. Assumptions n/a − The rApp is authorized to access the AI/ML model management and exposure services for registering an Preconditions AI/ML model. − The AI/ML model has been registered by the rApp. The AI/ML model producer rApp determines the need to query the Begins when registration of a registered AI/ML model. The AI/ML model producer rApp requests to query the registration of Step 1 (M) an AI/ML model by providing rAppId and registration identifier. The AI/ML workflow functions check whether the rApp is authorized Step 2 (M) to query the AI/ML model registration. The AI/ML workflow functions look up the information of queried Step 3(M) AI/ML model. The AI/ML workflow functions respond to rApp with AI/ML model- Step 4(M) related information. The AI/ML model producer rApp was able to query the AI/ML model Ends when registration. Exceptions n/a The AI/ML model is discoverable, and the rApp can query, update or Post Conditions delete the AI/ML model registration. Traceability REQ-R1-AIML-Registermodel-FUN1 !pragma teoz true participant "rApp" as src participant "AI/ML workflow functions" as ML note right Check authorization in collaboration with SME functions

#### 11.1.4.3 Update AI/ML model registration.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use The AI/ML model producer rApp updates the registration of an AI/ML Goal model. − rApp in the role of AI/ML model management and exposure services Consumer. Actors and Roles − AI/ML workflow functions in the role of AI/ML model management and exposure services Producer. Assumptions n/a − The rApp is authorized to access the AI/ML model management and exposure services for updating an AI/ML Preconditions model registration. − The AI/ML model has been registered by the rApp. The AI/ML model producer rApp determines the need to update the Begins when registration of an AI/ML model. The AI/ML model producer rApp requests to update the registration of an Step 1 (M) AI/ML model by providing rAppId, updated model registration information, etc. The AI/ML workflow functions check whether the rApp is authorized to Step 2 (M) update the registration. The AI/ML workflow functions validate the update AI/ML model registration Step 3 (M) request. Step 4 (M) The AI/ML workflow functions update the registration of the AI/ML model. The AI/ML workflow functions respond to the model producer rApp with Step 5 (M) successful update AI/ML model registration response. The AI/ML model producer rApp was able to update the registration of the Ends when AI/ML model. Exceptions n/a The rApp can query, update, or delete the AI/ML model registration. The Post Conditions updated AI/ML model is discoverable and is notified to all subscribed model consumer rApps. Traceability REQ-R1-AIML-Registermodel-FUN1 !pragma teoz true participant "rApp" as app participant "AI/ML workflow functions" as aif identifier, \n updated model registration information) note right Check authorization in collaboration with SME functions

#### 11.1.4.4 Deregister AI/ML model.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal The AI/ML model producer rApp deregisters an AI/ML model. − rApp in the role of AI/ML model management and exposure services Consumer. Actors and Roles − AI/ML workflow functions in the role of AI/ML model management and exposure services Producer. Assumptions n/a − The rApp is authorized to access the AI/ML model management Preconditions and exposure services. − The AI/ML model has been registered by the rApp. The AI/ML model producer rApp determines the need to deregister an AI/ML Begins when model it has previously registered. The rApp requests AI/ML workflow functions to deregister the AI/ML model by Step 1 (M) providing rAppId and AI/ML model registration identifier. The AI/ML workflow functions check whether the rApp is authorized to Step 2 (M) deregister the AI/ML model. Step 3 (M) The AI/ML workflow functions delete the registration of the AI/ML model. The AI/ML workflow functions respond to the rApp with successful deregister Step 4 (M) AI/ML model response. Ends when The AI/ML model producer rApp was able to deregister the AI/ML model. Exceptions n/a Post Conditions The AI/ML model is not discoverable any longer. Traceability REQ-R1-AIML-Registermodel-FUN1 !pragma teoz true participant "rApp" as src participant "AI/ML workflow functions" as ML identifier) note right Check authorization in collaboration with SME functions

### 11.1.5 Required data
The AI/ML model-related information includes the AI/ML model identifier, AI/ML model description, input, and output datatype, etc. For registering an AI/ML model, the rApp provides the rAppId and AI/ML model-related information. On successful registration, AI/ML workflow functions provide an AI/ML model registration identifier for the registration of the AI/ML model. For querying the registration of an AI/ML model, the rApp needs to provide the rAppId and the AI/ML model registration identifier. For updating the registration of an AI/ML model, the rApp needs to provide the rAppId, the AI/ML model registration identifier and the updated AI/ML model-related information or the modified part of the AI/ML model-related information. For deregistering an AI/ML model, the rApp provides the rAppId and the AI/ML model registration identifier.

## 11.2 AI/ML workflow-related use case 2: Discovery of AI/ML Model.

### 11.2.1 Overview
This use case enables an rApp to retrieve information about registered AI/ML Models and their associated information.

### 11.2.2 Background and goal of the use case.
The discover AI/ML model procedure is defined as part of the AI/ML workflow services in R1GAP [1].

### 11.2.3 Entities/resources involved in the use case.
1) AI/ML workflow functions in the role of AI/ML model management and exposure service Producer a) support functionality allowing rApps to discover the registered AI/ML Models, 2) rApp in the role of AI/ML model management and exposure Consumer a) initiates the procedure to discover the registered AI/ML models.

### 11.2.4 Solutions

#### 11.2.4.1 Discover AI/ML models.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal The rApp discovers registered AI/ML models. − rApp in the role of AI/ML model management and exposure Consumer. Actors and Roles − AI/ML workflow functions in the role of AI/ML model management and exposure service Producer. Assumptions n/a − The rApp is authorized to access the AI/ML workflow services. Preconditions − At least one AI/ML model is registered with the AI/ML workflow functions. The rApp determines the need to discover the registered AI/ML Begins when models. The rApp requests the AI/ML workflow functions for the information Step 1 (M) on the AI/ML Models by providing rAppId and optional selection criteria. The AI/ML workflow functions validate if the rApp is authorized to Step 2(M) discover the registered AI/ML models. The AI/ML workflow functions provide the information about registered AI/ML models. The list contains the information of those Step 3(M) AI/ML models that match the filtering criteria if those were provided by the rApp, or of all AI/ML models otherwise. For each AI/ML model, the model identifier and model metadata are provided. Ends when The rApp was able to discover the registered AI/ML models. Exceptions n/a The rApp can use the AI/ML model identifier in other AI/ML workflow Post Conditions services. Traceability REQ-R1-AI/ML-discovery -FUN1 'https://plantuml.com/sequence-diagram !pragma teoz true participant rApp as rApp participant " AI/ML workflow functions " as aif note right Check authorization in collaboration with SME functions

### 11.2.5 Required data
For the Discover AI/ML model request, the rApp provides the rAppId and optional selection criteria. The AI/ML workflow functions respond with information which includes the model identifiers and metadata information. The metadata information contains AI/ML model related information and training related information. If selection criteria information was provided in the related request, the response only contains information about those AI/ML models information that match the filtering criteria.

## 11.3 AI/ML workflow-related use case 3: AI/ML training – AI/ML
workflow functions producing AI/ML training services.

### 11.3.1 Overview
This use case defines how an rApp as an AI/ML training services Consumer requests AI/ML training, queries AI/ML training job status, cancels AI/ML training, and receives notification about AI/ML training job status change, when the AI/ML workflow functions in the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework acts as the AI/ML training services Producer.

### 11.3.2 Background and goal of the use case
An AI/ML training services Consumer rApp can request the AI/ML workflow functions in the Non-RT RIC framework to train an AI/ML model. For on-going AI/ML training, the AI/ML training services Consumer rApp can query the training job status or cancel the AI/ML training. If the training job status is changed, the AI/ML workflow functions can notify the AI/ML training service Consumer rApp about the training job status change.

### 11.3.3 Entities/resources involved in the use case.
1) AI/ML workflow functions as AI/ML training services Producer a. support the functionality to allow an AI/ML training services Consumer rApp to request training, query training job status, and cancel training. b. provide the response of success or failure results to the request training, query training job status, and cancel training request. c. support the functionality to notify an AI/ML training services Consumer rApp about the training job status change. 2) AI/ML training services Consumer rApp a. support to initiate the procedure to request AI/ML training, query AI/ML training job status, and cancel AI/ML training, b. support the functionality to receive notification of AI/ML training job status change.

### 11.3.4 Solutions

#### 11.3.4.1 Request AI/ML training.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use The AI/ML training services Consumer rApp requests training of an AI/ML Goal model. − AI/ML training services Consumer rApp in the role of Service Actors and Roles Consumer. − The AI/ML workflow functions in the role of Service Producer. Assumptions n/a The AI/ML training services Consumer rApp is deployed, authenticated, and Preconditions authorized to consume AI/ML training services. The AI/ML training services Consumer rApp determines the need to train an Begins when AI/ML model. The AI/ML training services Consumer rApp requests the AI/ML workflow Step 1 (M) functions to train an AI/ML model providing rAppId, information for training, and optionally a notification URI, etc. The AI/ML workflow functions check with SME functions whether the AI/ML Step 2 (M) training services Consumer rApp is authorized to request training. Step 3 (M) The AI/ML workflow functions validate the request. Step 4 (M) The AI/ML workflow functions create the training job. The AI/ML workflow functions respond to the AI/ML training services Step 5 (M) Consumer rApp with training job identifier as a parameter. The AI/ML training services Consumer rApp is able to create the training job Ends when at the AI/ML workflow functions. Exceptions n/a The AI/ML workflow functions can retrieve model to be trained from model Post Conditions repository and consume training data from DME. Traceability REQ-R1-AI/ML-training-FUN1 !pragma teoz true participant "AI/ML training services \n Consumer rApp" as con participant "AI/ML workflow functions" as aif notifcation URI, etc.) note right Check authorization in collaboration with SME functions

#### 11.3.4.2 Query AI/ML training job status.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use The AI/ML training services Consumer rApp query training job status of a Goal created training job. − AI/ML training services Consumer rApp in the role of Service Actors and Roles Consumer. − The AI/ML workflow functions in the role of Service Producer. Assumptions n/a The AI/ML training services Consumer rApp is deployed, authenticated, and Preconditions authorized to consume AI/ML training services. The AI/ML training services Consumer rApp determines the need to query Begins when the training job status. The AI/ML training services Consumer rApp queries the AI/ML workflow Step 1 (M) functions about the status of a created training job by providing rAppId and training job identifier. The AI/ML workflow functions check with SME functions whether the AI/ML Step 2 (M) training services Consumer rApp is authorized to query the training job status. Step 3 (M) The AI/ML workflow functions validate the request. The AI/ML workflow functions respond to the AI/ML training services Step 4 (M) Consumer rApp with training job status. The AI/ML training services Consumer rApp is able to obtain the training job Ends when status. Exceptions n/a The training job status is known to the AI/ML training services Consumer Post Conditions rApp. Traceability REQ-R1-AI/ML-training-FUN2 !pragma teoz true participant "AI/ML training services \n Consumer rApp" as con participant "AI/ML workflow functions" as aif note right Check authorization in collaboration with SME functions

#### 11.3.4.3 Cancel AI/ML training.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use The AI/ML training services Consumer rApp cancels training of an AI/ML Goal model. − AI/ML training services Consumer rApp in the role of Service Actors and Roles Consumer. − The AI/ML workflow functions in the role of Service Producer. Assumptions n/a The AI/ML training services Consumer rApp is deployed, authenticated, and Preconditions authorized to consume AI/ML training services. The AI/ML training services Consumer rApp determines to cancel the Begins when training of an AI/ML model. The AI/ML training services Consumer rApp cancels the training by Step 1 (M) providing rAppId and training job identifier. The AI/ML workflow functions check with SME functions whether the AI/ML Step 2 (M) training services Consumer rApp is authorized to cancel the training. Step 3 (M) The AI/ML workflow functions validate the request. Step 4 (M) The AI/ML workflow functions stop the training job. The AI/ML workflow functions respond to the AI/ML training services Step 5 (M) Consumer rApp. Ends when The AI/ML workflow functions are able to cancel training of an AI/ML model. Exceptions n/a Post Conditions The training is cancelled, and the training job is terminated. Traceability REQ-R1-AI/ML-training-FUN1 !pragma teoz true participant AI/ML training services \n Consumer rApp as con participant “AI/ML workflow functions” as aif aif → aif: AuthZ note right Check authorization in collaboration with SME functions

#### 11.3.4.4 Notify AI/ML training job status change.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use The AI/ML workflow functions notify the AI/ML training services Consumer Goal rApp about the training job status change of a created training job. − AI/ML training services Consumer rApp in the role of Service Actors and Roles Consumer. − The AI/ML workflow functions in the role of Service Producer. Assumptions n/a − The AI/ML training services Consumer rApp is deployed, authenticated, and authorized to consume AI/ML training Preconditions services. − The AI/ML training services Consumer rApp had provided a notification URI to the AI/ML workflow functions. The AI/ML workflow functions determine the need to notify training job Begins when status change to the AI/ML training services Consumer rApp. The AI/ML workflow functions notify the training job status change to AI/ML Step 1 (M) training services Consumer rApp. The AI/ML training services Consumer rApp is notified about the updated Ends when training job status. Exceptions n/a The updated training job status is known to the AI/ML training services Post Conditions Consumer rApp. Traceability REQ-R1-AI/ML-training-FUN3 !pragma teoz true participant "AI/ML training services \n Consumer rApp" as con participant "AI/ML workflow functions" as aif model id)

### 11.3.5 Required data
For requesting training, the AI/ML training services Consumer rApp needs to provide its rAppId, information for training (e.g., information about training dataset, model identifier, training criteria.), and optionally a notification URI to receive notification about training job status change. If the AI/ML workflow functions accept the training request, they assign a training job identifier for the created training job. For querying training job status, the AI/ML training services Consumer rApp needs to provide its rAppId and the training job identifier. The AI/ML workflow functions respond with the status of the training job identified by the training job identifier. For cancelling training, the AI/ML training services Consumer rApp needs to provide its rAppId and the training job identifier. For notifying training job status change, the AI/ML workflow functions provide the training job status, the training job identifier, and optionally model identifier.

## 11.4 AI/ML workflow-related use case 4: AI/ML training – rApp
producing AI/ML training services.

### 11.4.1 Overview
This use case defines how an rApp as an AI/ML training services Consumer requests AI/ML training, queries AI/ML training job status, cancels AI/ML training, and receives notification about AI/ML training job status change, when another rApp acts as the AI/ML training services Producer.

### 11.4.2 Background and goal of the use case
An AI/ML training services Consumer rApp can request the AI/ML training service Producer rApp to train an AI/ML model. For on-going AI/ML training, the AI/ML training services Consumer rApp can query the training job status or cancel the AI/ML training. If the training job status is changed, the AI/ML training services Producer rApp can notify the AI/ML training service Consumer rApp about the training job status change.

### 11.4.3 Entities/resources involved in the use case.
1) AI/ML training services Producer rApp a. supports the functionality to allow an AI/ML training services Consumer rApp to request training, query training job status, and cancel training. b. provides the response of success or failure results to the request training, query training job status, and cancel training request. c. supports the functionality to notify an AI/ML training services Consumer rApp about the training job status change. 2) AI/ML training services Consumer rApp a. supports to initiate the procedure to request AI/ML training, query AI/ML training job status, and cancel AI/ML training, b. supports the functionality to receive notification of AI/ML training job status change.

### 11.4.4 Solutions

#### 11.4.4.1 Request AI/ML training.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use The AI/ML training services Consumer rApp requests training of an AI/ML Goal model. − AI/ML training services Consumer rApp in the role of Service Consumer. Actors and Roles − AI/ML training service Producer rApp in the role of Service Producer. Assumptions n/a − The AI/ML training services Consumer rApp is deployed, authenticated, and authorized to consume AI/ML training services. Preconditions − The AI/ML training services Producer rApp is deployed, authenticated, and authorized to produce AI/ML training services. The AI/ML training services Consumer rApp determines the need to train an Begins when AI/ML model. The AI/ML training services Consumer rApp requests the AI/ML training Step 1 (M) services Producer rApp to train an AI/ML model providing rAppId, information for training, and optionally a notification URI, etc. The AI/ML training services Producer rApp checks with SME functions Step 2 (M) whether the AI/ML training services Consumer rApp is authorized to request training. Step 3 (M) The AI/ML training services Producer rApp validates the request. Step 4 (M) The AI/ML training services Producer rApp creates the training job. The AI/ML training services Producer rApp responds to the AI/ML training Step 5 (M) services Consumer rApp with training job identifier as a parameter. The AI/ML training services Consumer rApp is able to create the training job Ends when at the AI/ML training services Producer rApp. Exceptions n/a The AI/ML training service Producer rApp can retrieve model to be trained Post Conditions from model repository and consume training data from DME. Traceability REQ-R1-AI/ML-training-FUN1 !pragma teoz true participant "AI/ML training services \n Consumer rApp" as con participant "AI/ML training services \n Producer rApp" as aif participant "SME functions" as sme URI, etc.) aif <-> sme: <<R1>> Check authorization in \n collaboration with SME functions

#### 11.4.4.2 Query AI/ML training job status.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use The AI/ML training services Consumer rApp query training job status of a Goal created training job. − AI/ML training services Consumer rApp in the role of Service Consumer. Actors and Roles − AI/ML training service Producer rApp in the role of Service Producer. Assumptions n/a − The AI/ML training services Consumer rApp is deployed, authenticated, and authorized to consume AI/ML training services. Preconditions − The AI/ML training services Producer rApp is deployed, authenticated, and authorized to produce AI/ML training services. The AI/ML training services Consumer rApp determines the need to query Begins when the training job status. The AI/ML training services Consumer rApp queries the AI/ML training Step 1 (M) service Producer rApp about the status of a created training job by providing rAppId and training job identifier. The AI/ML training service Producer rApp checks with SME functions Step 2 (M) whether the AI/ML training services Consumer rApp is authorized to query the training job status. Step 3 (M) The AI/ML training service Producer rApp validates the request. The AI/ML training service Producer rApp responds to the AI/ML training Step 4 (M) services Consumer rApp with training job status. The AI/ML training services Consumer rApp is able to obtain the training job Ends when status. Exceptions n/a The training job status is known to the AI/ML training services Consumer Post Conditions rApp. Traceability REQ-R1-AI/ML-training-FUN2 !pragma teoz true participant "AI/ML training services \n Consumer rApp" as con participant "AI/ML training services \n Producer rApp" as aif participant "SME functions" as sme aif <-> sme: <<R1>> Check authorization in \n collaboration with SME functions

#### 11.4.4.3 Cancel AI/ML training.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use The AI/ML training services Consumer rApp cancels training of an AI/ML Goal model. − AI/ML training services Consumer rApp in the role of Service Consumer. Actors and Roles − AI/ML training service Producer rApp in the role of Service Producer. Assumptions n/a − The AI/ML training services Consumer rApp is deployed, authenticated, and authorized to consume AI/ML training services. Preconditions − The AI/ML training services Producer rApp is deployed, authenticated, and authorized to produce AI/ML training services. The AI/ML training services Consumer rApp determines to cancel the Begins when training of an AI/ML model. The AI/ML training services Consumer rApp cancels the training by Step 1 (M) providing rAppId and training job identifier. The AI/ML training service Producer rApp checks with SME functions Step 2 (M) whether the AI/ML training services Consumer rApp is authorized to cancel the training. Step 3 (M) The AI/ML training service Producer rApp validates the request. Step 4 (M) The AI/ML training service Producer rApp stops the training job. The AI/ML training service Producer rApp responds to the AI/ML training Step 5 (M) services Consumer rApp. The AI/ML training service Producer rApp is able to cancel training of an Ends when AI/ML model. Exceptions n/a Post Conditions The training is cancelled, and the training job is terminated. Traceability REQ-R1-AI/ML-training-FUN1 !pragma teoz true participant "AI/ML training services \n Consumer rApp" as con participant "AI/ML training services \n Producer rApp" as aif participant "SME functions" as sme aif <-> sme: <<R1>> Check authorization in \n collaboration with SME functions

#### 11.4.4.4 Notify AI/ML training job status change.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use The AI/ML training service Producer notifies the AI/ML training services Goal Consumer rApp about the training job status change of a created training job. − AI/ML training services Consumer rApp in the role of Service Consumer. Actors and Roles − AI/ML training service Producer rApp in the role of Service Producer. Assumptions n/a − The AI/ML training services Consumer rApp is deployed, authenticated, and authorized to consume AI/ML training services. − The AI/ML training services Consumer rApp had provided a Preconditions notification URI to the AI/ML training services Producer rApp. − The AI/ML training services Producer rApp is deployed, authenticated, and authorized to produce AI/ML training services. The AI/ML training service Producer determines the need to notify training Begins when job status change to the AI/ML training services Consumer rApp. The AI/ML training service Producer notifies the training job status change Step 1 (M) to AI/ML training services Consumer rApp. The AI/ML training services Consumer rApp is notified about the updated Ends when training job status. Exceptions n/a The updated training job status is known to the AI/ML training services Post Conditions Consumer rApp. Traceability REQ-R1-AI/ML-training-FUN3 !pragma teoz true participant "AI/ML training services \n Consumer rApp" as con participant "AI/ML training services \n Producer rApp" as aif id)

### 11.4.5 Required data
For requesting training, the AI/ML training services Consumer rApp needs to provide its rAppId, information for training (e.g., information about training dataset, model identifier, training criteria.), and optionally a notification URI to receive notification about training job status change. If the AI/ML training service Producer rApp accepts the training request, it assigns a training job identifier for the created training job. For querying training job status, the AI/ML training services Consumer rApp needs to provide its rAppId and the training job identifier. The AI/ML training service Producer rApp responses with the status of the training job identified by the training job identifier. For cancelling training, the AI/ML training services Consumer rApp needs to provide its rAppId and the training job identifier. For notifying training job status change, the AI/ML training service Producer rApp provides the training job status, the training job identifier, and optionally model identifier.

## 11.5 AI/ML workflow-related use case 5: AI/ML model Retrieve.

### 11.5.1 Overview
This use case defines how an rApp retrieves model location details as a consumer of registered AI/ML model(s).

### 11.5.2 Background and goal of the use case.
The AI/ML model retrieve procedures are defined as part of the AI/ML workflow services as part of AI/ML workflow services in R1GAP [1].

### 11.5.3 Entities/resources involved in the use case.
1) AI/ML workflow functions a) support model management and exposure functionality to allow an rApp to retrieve the location details of AI/ML model(s). 2) rApp a) initiates the procedure to retrieve the location details of AI/ML model(s).

### 11.5.4 Solutions

#### 11.5.4.1 Retrieve model.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal The rApp retrieves AI/ML model(s). − rApp in the role of Model retrieve service Consumer. Actors and Roles − AI/ML workflow functions in the role of Model retrieve service Producer. Assumptions n/a − The rApp is authorized to access the AI/ML Model retrieve service. Preconditions − The rApp has the model identifier(s). Begins when The rApp determines the need to retrieve the AI/ML model. The rApp requests the AI/ML workflow functions to retrieve an AI/ML Step 1 (M) model by providing the rApp ID, and the AI/ML model identifier(s). The AI/ML workflow functions check with SME functions whether the Step 2 (M) rApp is authorized to retrieve AI/ML models. The AI/ML workflow functions fetch the model location details of Step 3 (M) registered AI/ML model(s). The AI/ML workflow functions respond to rApp AI/ML model Step 4(M) identifier, model location details. Ends when The rApp has the location details. Exceptions n/a Post Conditions n/a Traceability REQ-R1-AIML-Retrievemodel-FUN1 !pragma teoz true participant "Model Consumer rApp" as rApp participant "AI/ML workflow functions" as ML identifier(s)) model location details) end

### 11.5.5 Required data
For Retrieve AI/ML model information request, the rApp provides the rAppId, and model- identifier(s). For Retrieve AI/ML model information response, the AI/ML workflow functions provide model identifier(s) and model location details.

## 11.6 AI/ML workflow-related use case 6: AI/ML model deployment

### 11.6.1 Overview
This use case defines how an rApp requests the deployment of an AI/ML model as an AI/ML model Consumer.

### 11.6.2 Background and goal of the use case.
The AI/ML model deployment procedures are defined as part of the AI/ML workflow services as part of AI/ML workflow services in R1GAP [1].

### 11.6.3 Entities/resources involved in the use case.
1) AI/ML workflow functions a) support model management and exposure functionality to allow an rApp to request the deployment of an AI/ML model. 2) rApp a) initiates the procedure to deploy the updated artifact version of an AI/ML model being consumed by the rApp.

### 11.6.4 Solutions

#### 11.6.4.1 Retrieve model.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use The rApp requests to deploy an AI/ML model being consumed by the Goal rApp. − rApp in the role of Model deployment service Consumer. Actors and Roles − AI/ML workflow functions in the role of Model deployment service Producer. Assumptions n/a − The rApp is authorized to access the Model deployment service. − The rApp is authorized to access the AI/ML model Preconditions referenced in the deployment request. − The AI/ML model referenced in the deployment request is being consumed by the rApp requesting the deployment. Begins when The rApp determines the need to deployment an AI/ML model. The rApp requests the AI/ML workflow functions to deploy an AI/ML Step 1 (M) model by providing the rAppId, the AI/ML model identifier and the target deployment location of the AI/ML model. The AI/ML workflow functions authorize the rApps deployment Step 2 (M) request. The AI/ML workflow functions send the model deployment response to the rApp. The AI/ML workflow functions trigger the rApp deployment Step 3 (M) procedure.
> NOTE: The rApp deployment procedure is not specified in this
specification. The AI/ML workflow functions notify the rApp the model deployment Step 4 (M) status. Ends when n/a Exceptions n/a Post Conditions The model deployment status is known to the rApp, Traceability REQ-R1-AIML-Deploymodel-FUN1 defaultFontSize 12skinparam lifelineStrategy solid skinparam SequenceGroupBackgroundColor Transparentskinparam SequenceGroupBodyBackgroundColor Transparentautonumber "AI/ML workflow functions" as ML endboxendbox Identifier,\n the target deployment location of the AI/ML model)ML -> ML: AuthZnote right Check authorization in collaboration with SME functionsend note status)

### 11.6.5 Required data
For a model deployment request, the rApp provides the rAppId, AI/ML model identifier, and the target deployment location of the AI/ML model. For a model deployment status notification, AI/ML workflow functions provide AI/ML model identifier and the deployment status.

## 11.7 AI/ML workflow-related use case 7: AI/ML model performance
monitoring – AIML workflow functions consuming performance monitoring service

### 11.7.1 Overview
This use case enables the AI/ML workflow functions as AI/ML model performance monitoring service consumer to subscribe to AI/ML model performance and receive notifications of AI/ML model performance information.

### 11.7.2 Background and goal of the use case
An AI/ML model performance monitoring service consumer can subscribe to AI/ML model performance and receive notifications of AI/ML model performance information.

### 11.7.3 Entities/resources involved in the use case
1) rApp as AI/ML model performance monitoring service Producer a. supports the functionality to allow an authorized consumer to subscribe to, and receive notifications of, AI/ML model performance information. 2) AI/ML workflow functions as AI/ML model performance monitoring service Consumer a. support the functionality to initiate the procedure to subscribe to, and receive notifications of, AI/ML model performance information.

### 11.7.4 Solutions

#### 11.7.4.1 Subscribe AI/ML model performance.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use The AI/ML workflow functions subscribe to AI/ML model Goal performance. − rApp in the role of AI/ML model performance monitoring service Producer. Actors and Roles − AI/ML workflow functions in the role of AI/ML model performance monitoring service Consumer. The supported AI/ML model performance information are part Assumptions of the AI/ML model registration information. Preconditions The rApp has deployed a registered AI/ML model. The AI/ML workflow functions determine the need to monitor Begins when the AI/ML model performance of a deployed AI/ML model. The AI/ML workflow functions subscribe to AI/ML model performance with AI/ML model identifier, required AI/ML model Step 1 (M) performance information (optional), periodicity (optional), event notification conditions (optional), and notification URI as parameters. Step 2 (M) The rApp validates the subscription request. Step 3 (M) The rApp creates the subscription. The rApp responds to the request with subscription ID as a Step 4 (M) parameter. The subscription is created, and AI/ML workflow functions have Ends when the subscription ID. Exceptions n/a Post Conditions n/a Traceability REQ-R1-AIML-Performancer-FUN1 !pragma teoz true participant rApp as rApp participant "AI/ML Workflow functions" as AIML AI/ML model performance information (optional), Periodicity (optional),\n EventNotificationConditions (optional), Notification URI)

#### 11.7.4.2 Notify AI/ML model performance.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use The rApp notifies subscribed consumers of AI/ML model Goal performance information. − rApp in the role of AI/ML model performance monitoring service Producer. Actors and Roles − AI/ML workflow functions in the role of AI/ML model performance monitoring service Consumer. The supported AI/ML model performance information are part Assumptions of the AI/ML model registration information. − The rApp has deployed a registered AI/ML model. Preconditions − The AI/ML workflow functions subscribed to AI/ML model performance. The rApp determines the need to notify subscribed consumers Begins when of the performance information of a deployed AI/ML model. In the case of event-based notifications, the rApp notifies Alternative procedure subscribed consumers of the AI/ML model performance information every time an event is triggered in Step 1. The rApp checks the occurrence of the notification events Step 1 (M) specified in the subscription request. The rApp notifies the subscribed consumers of the AI/ML model performance information providing the requested AI/ML model performance information and the event triggered as Step 2 (M) parameters. If no AI/ML model performance information is specified in the subscription request, all supported AI/ML model performance information is provided. In the case of periodic notifications, the rApp notifies subscribed Alternative procedure consumers of the AI/ML model performance information as per the notification periodicity specified in the subscription. The rApp notifies the subscribed consumers of the AI/ML model performance information providing the requested AI/ML model Step 3 (M) performance information. If no AI/ML model performance information is specified in the subscription request, all supported AI/ML model performance information is provided. The rApp is able to terminate the subscription or the AI/ML Ends when model is no longer deployed. Exceptions n/a Post Conditions n/a Traceability REQ-R1-AIML-Performancer-FUN2 !pragma teoz true participant “AI/ML model performance monitoring \n service Producer rApp” as rApp participant "AI/ML Workflow functions" as AIML Loop Periodicity of notifications specified in the subscription request Alt Event based notificatons model performance information, EventNotificationType) else Periodical notifications AI/ML model performance information) end end

### 11.7.5 Required data
For the Subscribe AI/ML model performance request, the AI/ML workflow functions provide the AI/ML model identifier and notification URI. In the Subscribe AI/ML model performance request, the AI/ML workflow functions optionally provide the required AI/ML model performance information, Notification event conditions upon which the Notify AI/ML model performance is triggered, and periodicity of the notification. For the Subscribe AI/ML model performance response, the rApp provides the Subscription ID. For the Notify AI/ML model performance, the rApp provides the AI/ML model performance information specified in the Subscribe AI/ML model performance request, as well as the event that triggered the notification if notification event conditions are specified in the Subscribe AI/ML model performance request. If no required AI/ML performance information is specified in the Subscribe AI/ML model performance request, all supported AI/ML model performance information is provided in the Notify AI/ML model performance.

## 11.8 AI/ML workflow-related use case 8: AI/ML model performance
monitoring – rApp consuming performance monitoring service

### 11.8.1 Overview
This use case defines how an rApp as AI/ML model performance monitoring service Consumer subscribes to AI/ML model performance and receives notifications of AI/ML model performance information.

### 11.8.2 Background and goal of the use case
An AI/ML model performance monitoring service Consumer can subscribe to AI/ML model performance and receive notifications of AI/ML model performance information.

### 11.8.3 Entities/resources involved in the use case
1) rApp as AI/ML model performance monitoring service Producer a. supports the functionality to allow an authorized consumer to subscribe to, and receive notifications of, AI/ML model performance information. 2) rApp as AI/ML model performance monitoring service Consumer a. supports the functionality to initiate the procedure to subscribe to, and receive notifications of, AI/ML model performance information.

### 11.8.4 Solutions

#### 11.8.4.1 Subscribe AI/ML model performance.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal rApp subscribes to AI/ML model performance. − rApp in the role of AI/ML model performance monitoring service Producer. Actors and Roles − rApp in the role of AI/ML model performance monitoring service Consumer. The supported AI/ML model performance information are part Assumptions of the AI/ML model registration information. The AI/ML model performance monitoring service producer Preconditions rApp has deployed a registered AI/ML model. The AI/ML model performance monitoring service Consumer Begins when rApp determines the need to monitor the AI/ML model performance of a deployed AI/ML model. The AI/ML model performance monitoring service Consumer rApp subscribes to AI/ML model performance with AI/ML model Step 1 (M) identifier, required AI/ML model performance information (optional), periodicity (optional), event notification conditions (optional), and notification URI as parameters. The AI/ML model performance monitoring service Producer rApp checks with SME functions whether the AI/ML model Step 2 (M) performance monitoring service Consumer is authorized to subscribe to AI/ML model performance. The AI/ML model performance monitoring service Producer Step 3 (M) rApp validates the subscription request. Step 4 (M) The rApp creates the subscription. The rApp responds to the request with subscription ID as a Step 5 (M) parameter. The subscription is created, and The AI/ML model performance Ends when monitoring service Consumer rApp has the subscription ID. Exceptions n/a Post Conditions n/a Traceability REQ-R1-AIML-Performancer-FUN1 !pragma teoz true participant “The AI/ML model performance monitoring \n service Producer rApp” as rApp participant " The AI/ML model performance monitoring \n service Consumer rApp " as AIML participant “SME functions” as SME model performance information (optional), Periodicity (optional),\n EventNotificationConditions (optional), Notification URI) note right Check authorization in collaboration with SME functions

#### 11.8.4.2 Notify AI/ML model performance.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use The rApp notifies subscribed consumers of AI/ML model Goal performance information. − rApp in the role of AI/ML model performance monitoring service Producer. Actors and Roles − rApp in the role of AI/ML model performance monitoring service Consumer. The supported AI/ML model performance information are part Assumptions of the AI/ML model registration information. − The rApp has deployed a registered AI/ML model. − The AI/ML model performance monitoring service Preconditions consumer rApp subscribed to AI/ML model performance. The rApp determines the need to notify subscribed consumers Begins when of the performance information of a deployed AI/ML model. In the case of event-based notifications, the rApp notifies Alternative procedure subscribed consumers of the AI/ML model performance information every time an event is triggered in Step 1. The rApp checks the occurrence of the notification events Step 1 (M) specified in the subscription request. The rApp notifies the subscribed consumers of the AI/ML model performance information providing the requested AI/ML model performance information and the event triggered as Step 2 (M) parameters. If no AI/ML model performance information is specified in the subscription request, all supported AI/ML model performance information is provided. In the case of periodic notifications, the rApp notifies subscribed Alternative procedure consumers of the AI/ML model performance information as per the notification periodicity specified in the subscription. The rApp notifies the subscribed consumers of the AI/ML model performance information providing the requested AI/ML model Step 3 (M) performance information. If no AI/ML model performance information is specified in the subscription request, all supported AI/ML model performance information is provided. The rApp is able to terminate the subscription or the AI/ML Ends when model is no longer deployed. Exceptions n/a Post Conditions n/a Traceability REQ-R1-AIML-Performancer-FUN2 !pragma teoz true participant “AI/ML model performance monitoring \n service Producer rApp” as rApp participant " The AI/ML model performance monitoring \n service Consumer rApp " as AIML Loop Periodicity of notifications specified in the subscription request Alt Event based notificatons performance information,EventNotificationType) else Periodical notifications model performance information) end end

### 11.8.5 Required data
For the Subscribe AI/ML model performance request, the AI/ML model performance monitoring service Consumer rApp provides the AI/ML model identifier and notification URI. In the Subscribe AI/ML model performance request, the AI/ML model performance monitoring service Consumer rApp optionally provides the required AI/ML model performance information, Notification event conditions upon which the Notify AI/ML model performance is triggered, and periodicity of the notification. For the Subscribe AI/ML model performance response, the AI/ML model performance monitoring service Producer rApp provides the Subscription ID. For the Notify AI/ML model performance, the AI/ML model performance monitoring service producer rApp provides the AI/ML model performance information specified in the Subscribe AI/ML model performance request, as well as the event that triggered the notification if notification event conditions are specified in the Subscribe AI/ML model performance request. If no required AI/ML performance information is specified in the Subscribe AI/ML model performance request, all supported AI/ML model performance information is provided in the Notify AI/ML model performance.

## 11.9 AI/ML workflow-related use case 9: AI/ML model training
capability registration and deregistration

### 11.9.1 Overview
This use case defines how an rApp registers and deregisters AI/ML model training capability.

### 11.9.2 Background and goal of the use case
The register AI/ML model training capability and deregister AI/ML model training capability are optional procedures defined as part of the AI/ML model training capability registration service in R1GAP [1].

### 11.9.3 Entities/resources involved in the use case
1) AI/ML workflow functions a) support functionality to allow an rApp to register and deregister AI/ML model training capability, b) support validation of AI/ML model training capability information. 2) rApp: a) initiates the procedure to register and deregister AI/ML model training capability.

### 11.9.4 Solutions

#### 11.9.4.1 Register AI/ML model training capability.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal The rApp registers an AI/ML model training capability. − rApp in the role of AI/ML model management and exposure service Consumer. Actors and Roles − AI/ML workflow functions in the role of AI/ML model management and exposure service Producer. Assumptions n/a − The rApp is authorized to access the AI/ML model management and exposure services. Preconditions − The rApp is registered as producer of AI/ML model training with SME, it intends to register its training capability in AI/ML workflow functions. The rApp determines the need to register an AI/ML model training Begins when capability. The rApp requests the AI/ML workflow functions to register an AI/ML Step 1 (M) model training capability by providing the rAppId and AI/ML model training capability information. The AI/ML workflow functions check with SME functions whether the Step 2 (M) rApp is registered as producer of AI/ML model training service. The AI/ML workflow functions register the rApp's AI/ML model Step 3(M) training capability. The AI/ML workflow functions respond to rApp with successful AI/ML Step 4(M) model training capability registration along with AI/ML model training capability registration ID. Ends when The rApp was able to register an AI/ML model training capability. Exceptions n/a The AI/ML model training capability is registered. The rApp can Post Conditions query, update or delete the AI/ML model training capability registration. Traceability REQ-R1-AI/ML-Registertraincap -FUN1 !pragma teoz true participant "AI/ML workflow functions" as ML participant "Training service Producer rApp" as src training capability information) capability registration ID)

#### 11.9.4.2 Deregister AI/ML model training capability
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal The rApp deregisters an AI/ML model training capability. − rApp in the role of AI/ML model management and exposure service Consumer. Actors and Roles − AI/ML workflow functions in the role of AI/ML model management and exposure service Producer. Assumptions The rApp is not producing any AI/ML model training capability. − The rApp has registered an AI/ML model training capability. Preconditions − The rApp is authorized to access the AI/ML model management and exposure services. The rApp determines the need to deregister an AI/ML model training capability Begins when that it no longer intends to produce. The rApp requests AI/ML workflow functions to deregister an AI/ML model Step 1 (M) training capability by providing rAppId and AI/ML model training capability registration ID. The AI/ML workflow functions remove the registration of the rApp as producer Step 2 (M) of AI/ML model training capability. The AI/ML workflow functions respond to the rApp with successful Step 3 (M) deregistration. Ends when The rApp was able to deregister the AI/ML model training capability. Exceptions n/a Post Conditions n/a Traceability REQ-R1-AI/ML-Registertraincap -FUN1 !pragma teoz true participant "AI/ML workflow functions" as ML participant "Training service Producer rApp" as src capability registration ID)

#### 11.9.4.3 Update AI/ML model training capability registration.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal The rApp updates the registration of an AI/ML model training capability. − rApp in the role of AI/ML model management and exposure services Consumer. Actors and Roles − AI/ML workflow functions in the role of AI/ML model management and exposure services Producer. Assumptions n/a − The rApp is authorized to access the AI/ML model management and exposure services for updating an AI/ML Preconditions model training capability registration. − The rApp has registered an AI/ML model training capability. The AI/ML model training service producer rApp determines the need to Begins when update the registration of an AI/ML model training capability. The AI/ML model training service producer rApp requests to update the registration of an AI/ML model training capability by providing rAppId, AI/ML Step 1 (M) model training capability registration ID, updated model training capability registration information, etc. The AI/ML workflow functions check whether the rApp is authorized to Step 2 (M) update the registration. The AI/ML workflow functions validate the update AI/ML model training Step 3 (M) capability registration request. The AI/ML workflow functions update the registration of the AI/ML model Step 4 (M) training capability. The AI/ML workflow functions respond to the rApp with successful update Step 5 (M) AI/ML model training capability registration response. The rApp was able to update the registration of the AI/ML model training Ends when capability. Exceptions n/a The rApp can query, update or delete the AI/ML model training capability Post Conditions registration. Traceability REQ-R1-AI/ML-Registertraincap -FUN1 !pragma teoz true participant "rApp" as app participant "AI/ML workflow functions" as aif model training capability registration identifier, \n updated model training capability registration information) note right Check authorization in collaboration with SME functions

#### 11.9.4.4 Query AI/ML model training capability registration.
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal The rApp queries an AI/ML model training capability registration. − rApp in the role of AI/ML model management and exposure services Consumer. Actors and Roles − AI/ML workflow functions in the role of AI/ML model management and exposure services Producer. Assumptions n/a − The rApp is authorized to access the AI/ML model management and exposure services for registering an Preconditions AI/ML model. − The AI/ML model training capability has been registered by the rApp. The AI/ML model training service producer rApp determines the Begins when need to query the registration of a registered AI/ML model training capability. The AI/ML model training service producer rApp requests to query Step 1 (M) the registration of an AI/ML model training capability by providing rAppId and AI/ML model training capability registration ID. The AI/ML workflow functions check whether the rApp is authorized Step 2 (M) to query the AI/ML model training capability registration. The AI/ML workflow functions look up the information of queried Step 3(M) AI/ML model training capability. The AI/ML workflow functions respond to rApp with AI/ML model Step 4(M) training capability information. The AI/ML model training service producer rApp was able to query Ends when the AI/ML model training capability registration. Exceptions n/a The rApp can query, update, or delete the AI/ML model training Post Conditions capability registration. Traceability REQ-R1-AI/ML-Registertraincap -FUN1 !pragma teoz true participant "rApp" as src participant "AI/ML workflow functions" as ML capability registration ID) note right Check authorization in collaboration with SME functions capability information)

### 11.9.5 Required data
The AI/ML model training capability information includes but not limited to supported training frameworks, supported library packages, supported library versions, resource information. For registering an AI/ML model training capability, the rApp provides the rAppId and AI/ML model training capability information. On successful registration, AI/ML workflow functions provide an AI/ML model training capability registration ID for the registration of the AI/ML model training capability information. For deregistering an AI/ML model training capability, the rApp provides the rAppId and the AI/ML model training capability registration ID. For updating the registration of an AI/ML model training capability, the rApp needs to provide the rAppId, the AI/ML model training capability registration ID and the updated AI/ML model training capability information or the modified part of the AI/ML model training capability information. For querying the registration of an AI/ML model training capability, the rApp needs to provide the rAppId and the AI/ML model training capability registration ID.

## 11.10 AI/ML workflow-related use case 10: AI/ML model inference –
AI/ML workflow functions producing AI/ML inference.

### 11.10.1 Overview
This use case enables an rApp to request and cancel an inference for an AI/ML model.

### 11.10.2 Background and goal of the use case
The request and cancel AI/ML model inference procedures are defined as part of the AI/ML workflow services in R1GAP [1].

### 11.10.3 Entities/resources involved in the use case
1) AI/ML workflow functions in the role of AI/ML model inference service Producer, a) support functionality allowing rApps to request, and cancel the inference of a registered AI/ML Model, 2) rApp in the role of AI/ML model inference service Consumer. a) initiates the procedure to request and cancel the inference of an AI/ML model.

### 11.10.4 Solutions

#### 11.10.4.1 Request AI/ML model inference
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use The AI/ML inference services Consumer requests inference for an AI/ML Goal model. − AI/ML inference services Consumer in the role of Service Actors and Roles Consumer. − The AI/ML workflow functions in the role of Service Producer. Assumptions n/a The AI/ML inference services Consumer is deployed, authenticated, and Preconditions authorized to consume AI/ML inference services. The AI/ML inference services Consumer determines the need to initiate the Begins when inference an AI/ML model. The AI/ML inference services Consumer requests the AI/ML workflow Step 1 (M) functions to infer an AI/ML model providing rAppId and model identifier. The AI/ML workflow functions check with SME functions whether the AI/ML Step 2 (M) inference services Consumer is authorized to request inference for an AI/ML model. Step 3 (M) The AI/ML workflow functions validate the request. The AI/ML workflow functions respond to the AI/ML inference services Step 4 (M) Consumer with inference job identifier as a parameter. The AI/ML inference services Consumer is able to obtain the inference job Ends when identifier. Exceptions n/a The inference job exists, and the inference service Consumer can cancel Post Conditions the AI/ML model inference. Traceability REQ-R1-AIML-inference -FUN1. !pragma teoz true participant "rApp" as rApp participant "AI/ML workflow functions" as ML note right Check authorization in Collaboration with SME functions

#### 11.10.4.2 Cancel AI/ML model inference
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use The AI/ML inference services Consumer cancels the AI/ML model inference Goal that it has previously requested. − AI/ML inference services Consumer in the role of Service Actors and Roles Consumer. − The AI/ML workflow functions in the role of Service Producer. Assumptions n/a − The AI/ML inference services Consumer is deployed, authenticated, and authorized to consume AI/ML inference Preconditions services. − The inference job exists, and the AI/ML inference Consumer is aware of the job identifier. The AI/ML inference services Consumer determines the need to cancel the Begins when inference of an AI/ML model. The AI/ML inference services Consumer requests the AI/ML workflow Step 1 (M) functions to cancel the inference for an AI/ML model providing rAppId and inference job identifier. The AI/ML workflow functions check with SME functions whether the AI/ML Step 2 (M) inference services Consumer is authorized to cancel the inference job for an AI/ML model. Step 3(M) The AI/ML workflow functions cancel the inference job. The AI/ML workflow functions respond to the AI/ML inference services Step 4 (M) Consumer rApp with cancellation of inference job. Ends when The AI/ML inference service job has been cancelled. Exceptions n/a Post Conditions n/a Traceability REQ-R1-AIML-inference -FUN1 !pragma teoz true participant "rApp" as rApp participant "AI/ML workflow functions" as ML note right Check authorization in Collaboration with SME functions

### 11.10.5 Required data
For creating AI/ML model inference job, the AI/ML inference services Consumer needs to provide its rAppId and the model identifier. The AI/ML workflow functions respond with the creation of inference job by providing the inference job identifier. For cancellation of an AI/ML inference job, the AI/ML inference services Consumer needs to provide its rAppId and the inference job identifier.

## 11.11 AI/ML workflow-related use case 11: AI/ML model change
subscription.

### 11.11.1 Overview
This use case defines how an rApp subscribes to registered AI/ML models. It enables an rApp to subscribe to and unsubscribe from notifications regarding changes in the registered AI/ML models.

### 11.11.2 Background and goal of the use case
The subscribe AI/ML models changes procedure, unsubscribe AI/ML models changes procedure and notify AI/ML models changes procedure are defined as part of the AI/ML workflow services in R1GAP [1].

### 11.11.3 Entities/resources involved in the use case
1) AI/ML workflow functions a) support functionality to allow an rApp to subscribe and unsubscribe the registered AI/ML model changes, b) support functionality to notify rApp about changes of registered AI/ML model, c) support validation of selection criteria. 2) rApp a) initiates the procedure to subscribe and unsubscribe registered AI/ML model changes, b) support functionality to receive notification regarding changes of subscribed AI/ML model.

### 11.11.4 Solutions

#### 11.11.4.1 Subscribe AI/ML model changes
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use The rApp subscribes to notifications regarding changes of AI/ML Goal models. − rApp in the role of AI/ML model management and exposure service Consumer. Actors and Roles − AI/ML workflow functions in the role of AI/ML model management and exposure service Producer. Assumptions n/a − The rApp is authorised to access the AI/ML model management and exposure service. Error! Reference Preconditions − The rApp is aware of the AI/ML model identifier of the source not found. AI/ML model. The rApp determines the need to subscribe to notifications regarding Begins when changes of registered AI/ML models. The rApp requests the AI/ML workflow functions to subscribe to Step 1 (M) notifications regarding AI/ML model changes with rAppId and AI/ML model identifier selection criteria. The AI/ML workflow functions receive the AI/ML model subscription Step 2 (M) request, and check whether the rApp is authorized to subscribe to identified AI/ML models. The AI/ML workflow functions validate the subscribe AI/ML model Step 3 (M) request. The AI/ML workflow functions establish the AI/ML model Step 4 (M) subscription. The AI/ML workflow functions send back a response with a Step 5 (M) subscription identifier matching the request in Step 1 to rApp. The rApp was able to subscribe to notifications regarding AI/ML Ends when model changes. Exceptions n/a The rApp can receive notifications when changes are made to any of the AI/ML models that matches AI/ML model identifier selection Post Conditions criteria. The rApp can unsubscribe from the notifications. Traceability n/a
> NOTE: AI/ML model identifier includes model name, model version and artifact version. AI/ML
model identifier selection criteria could be upper and/or lower bounds of model version and artifact version number, or list of individual model version and artifact version numbers, etc. Selection criteria is used to identify AI/ML models to be subscribed, which can be applied to part, or all of AI/ML model identifier components. !pragma teoz true participant "rApp" as rApp participant "AI/ML workflow functions" as ML selection criteria) note right Check authorization in collaboration with SME functions

#### 11.11.4.2 Notify AI/ML model changes
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use The rApp receives a notification regarding a change of a registered Goal AI/ML model. − rApp in the role of AI/ML model management and exposure service Consumer. Actors and Roles − AI/ML workflow functions in the role of AI/ML model management and exposure service Producer. Assumptions n/a − The rApp is authorised to access the AI/ML model Error! Reference Preconditions management and exposure service. source not found. − The rApp is subscribed to notifications. The AI/ML workflow functions determine to send a notification Begins when regarding the change of a subscribed AI/ML model to the subscribing rApp. The AI/ML workflow functions send a notification to the subscribing Step 1(M) rApp with AI/ML model identifier and available change details. Ends when The rApp was able to receive the notification. Exceptions n/a Post Conditions n/a Traceability n/a !pragma teoz true participant "rApp" as rApp participant "AI/ML workflow functions" as ML details)

#### 11.11.4.3 Unsubscribe AI/ML model changes
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal The rApp unsubscribes from notifications. − rApp in the role of AI/ML model management and exposure service Consumer. Actors and Roles − AI/ML workflow functions in the role of AI/ML model management and exposure service Producer. Assumptions n/a − The rApp is authorised to access the AI/ML model management and exposure service. Error! Reference Preconditions − The rApp is subscribed to notifications regarding AI/ML source not found. model changes. The rApp determines the need to unsubscribe from notifications Begins when regarding changes of registered AI/ML model. The rApp requests the AI/ML workflow functions to unsubscribe from Step 1 (M) notifications regarding AI/ML model changes by providing the rAppId and subscription identifier The AI/ML workflow functions check whether the rApp is authorized Step 2 (M) to unsubscribe from notifications regarding AI/ML model changes Step 3(M) The AI/ML workflow functions cancel the subscription Step 4(M) The AI/ML workflow functions respond to the request. The rApp was able to unsubscribe from notifications regarding Ends when changes of registered AI/ML model. Exceptions n/a Post Conditions n/a Traceability n/a !pragma teoz true participant "rApp" as rApp participant "AI/ML workflow functions" as ML note right Check authorization in collaboration with SME functions

### 11.11.5 Required data
For subscription to notifications regarding changes of registered AI/ML model, the rApp provides the rAppId and the AI/ML model identifier selection criteria. The AI/ML workflow functions send back a subscription identifier in response. The AI/ML workflow functions send notifications to the subscribing rApp by providing the AI/ML model identifier(s) and available change details of AI/ML model(s). For unsubscribing from notifications regarding changes of registered AI/ML model, the rApp needs to send the rAppId and AI/ML model subscription identifier.

## 11.12 AI/ML workflow-related use case 12: Query of AI/ML Model
inference capabilities - AI/ML workflow functions producing AI/ML inference

### 11.12.1 Overview
This use case enables an rApp to query the inference capability information of an AI/ML model.

### 11.12.2 Background and goal of the use case
The query AI/ML model inference capabilities procedure are defined as part of the AI/ML workflow services in R1GAP [1].

### 11.12.3 Entities/resources involved in the use case
1) AI/ML workflow functions in the role of AI/ML model inference service Producer, a) Support functionality allowing rApps to query the inference capability of an AI/ML Model, 2) rApp in the role of AI/ML model inference service Consumer. a) Initiates the procedure to query the inference capability of an AI/ML model.

### 11.12.4 Solutions

#### 11.12.4.1 Query AI/ML model inference capability
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use The AI/ML inference services Consumer retrieves the AI/ML model Goal inference capability information. − AI/ML inference services Consumer in the role of Service Actors and Roles Consumer. − The AI/ML workflow functions in the role of Service Producer. Service Consumer is authorized to request inference capability information Assumptions of a registered AI/ML model. The AI/ML inference services Consumer is deployed, authenticated, and Preconditions authorized to consume AI/ML inference services. The AI/ML inference services Consumer determines the need to query the Begins when inference capability information of a registered AI/ML model. The AI/ML inference services Consumer requests the AI/ML workflow functions to provide inference capability information by passing on the Step 1 (M) query parameters such as model identifier and associated model information. The AI/ML workflow functions check with SME functions whether the AI/ML Step 2 (M) inference services Consumer is authorized to request the inference capability information for a registered AI/ML model. The AI/ML workflow functions respond to the AI/ML inference services Step 3 (M) Consumer rApp with the requested inference capability information that matches the query criteria. Ends when The AI/ML model inference capability information has been retrieved. Exceptions n/a Post Conditions n/a Traceability REQ-R1-AIML-inference -FUN2 !pragma teoz true participant "rApp" as rApp participant "AI/ML workflow functions" as ML note right Check authorization in Collaboration with SME functions information)

### 11.12.5 Required data
For querying of an AI/ML model inference capability information, the AI/ML inference services Consumer needs to provide its rAppId and the query criteria (including the model identifier and model information). The AI/ML workflow functions respond with inference capability information such as model identifier or inference latency.

## 11.13 AI/ML Workflow-related use case 13: Query of AI/ML Model
training capability

### 11.13.1 Overview
This use case defines how an rApp queries AI/ML model training capability.

### 11.13.2 Background and goal of the use case
The query AI/ML model training capability is an optional procedure defined as part of the AI/ML model training capability query service in R1GAP [1].

### 11.13.3 Entities/resources involved in the use case
1) AI/ML workflow functions in the role of AI/ML model management and exposure service producer, a) Supports functionality allowing rApps to query the registered AI/ML model training capability, 2) rApp in the role of AI/ML model management and exposure service consumer. a) Initiates the procedure to query the registered AI/ML model training capability.

### 11.13.4 Solutions

#### 11.13.4.1 Query AI/ML model training capability
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal The rApp queries registered AI/ML model training capability − rApp in the role of AI/ML model management and exposure service Consumer. Actors and Roles − AI/ML workflow functions in the role of AI/ML model management and exposure service Producer. Assumptions n/a − The rApp is authorized to access the AI/ML workflow services. Preconditions − At least one AI/ML model training capability is registered with the AI/ML workflow functions. The rApp determines the need to query the registered AI/ML model Begins when training capability. The rApp requests the AI/ML workflow functions for the information Step 1 (M) on the AI/ML model training capability by providing its rAppId and selection criteria. The AI/ML workflow functions check if the rApp is authorized to Step 2(M) query the registered AI/ML model training capability. The AI/ML workflow functions look up the information of queried Step 3(M) AI/ML model training capability. The AI/ML workflow functions provide the information about the Step 4(M) registered AI/ML model training capability and corresponding AI/ML model Trainer rAppIds. Ends when The AI/ML model training capability has been received. Exceptions n/a Post Conditions n/a Traceability REQ-R1-AI/ML-Registertraincap -FUN1 !pragma teoz true participant rApp as rApp participant " AI/ML workflow functions " as aif note right Check authorization in collaboration with SME functions rAppIds, AI/ML model training capability information)

### 11.13.5 Required data
For the Query AI/ML model training capability request, the rApp provides the rAppId and selection criteria. The AI/ML workflow functions respond with information which includes the AI/ML model Trainer rAppIds and AI/ML model training capability information that match the selection criteria. The AI/ML model training capability information contains training platform information and training resource information.

# 12 Use cases for rApp Management Services
12.1 rApp Management use case 1: rApp registration

### 12.1.1 Overview
This use case provides the description and requirements for registering an rApp with the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework.

### 12.1.2 Background and goal of the use case
The rApp registration procedure registers the rApp to the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework. To register an rApp, an rApp may pass relevant info that may include the rApp name, vendor, software version, and other information needed by the SMO/Non- RT RIC framework.

### 12.1.3 Entities/resources involved in the use case.
1) rApp management functions in the role of rApp registration service producer a) assign the rApp with an ID. 2) rApp a) initiates the procedure of rApp registration.

### 12.1.4 Solutions
12.1.4.1 rApp registration <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Register the rApp to the rApp registration service producer in the Goal SMO/Non-RT RIC framework. − rApp in the role of rApp registration service consumer Actors and Roles − rApp management functions in the role of rApp registration service producer Assumptions n/a Preconditions The rApp is instantiated. Begins when The rApp is ready for registration. The rApp sends a registration request to the rApp management functions Step 1 (M) in the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework passing relevant information needed. Step 2 (M) The rApp management functions process the rApp registration request that may include.
- performing authentication,
- if rApp is authenticated, rAppId will be assigned to rApp.
Step 3 (M) Response to the registration request along with the rAppId. Ends when The rApp is allocated with an rAppId. Exceptions n/a The rApp is registered with the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework and an Post Conditions rAppId is allocated to the rApp. Traceability REQ-R1-SME-rAppreg-FUN1, REQ-R1-SME-rAppreg-FUN2. 'https://plantuml.com/sequence-diagram !pragma teoz true participant rApp as rApp participant “rApp management functions” as RMF ==rApp registration == note right registration processing assign rAppId Deactivate RMF

### 12.1.5 Required data.
For registering, an rApp needs to provide the security credentials along with e.g., rApp name, vendor, software version, certificates etc. and the role an rApp is trying to register (Service producer and/or Service consumer). The response to the rApp registration includes the status of registration i.e., success or failure. For successful rApp registration, the response will also include the rAppId. For unsuccessful rApp registration, the response will also include the error code along with relevant information.

### 13.03.2025 10.00 Added usecases for AI/ML model training capability registration and data job status

### 21.11.2024 09.00 Added usecases for AIML inference capability information Query

### 18.07.2024 08.00 Added use cases for AI/ML model training capability registration, Query for data
subscription, AI/ML model inference use case for create and delete and updated the SME subscription use case.

### 20.04.2024 07.00 Added the use cases for AI/ML performance monitoring use cases and updated the document with Producer and Consumer roles.

### 20.11.2023 06.00 Added the use cases and requirements to Data management and exposure services, A1
related services, AI/ML model workflow services, updated the data type to DME type.

### 29.07.2023 05.00 Published as Final version 05.00

### 24.03.2023 04.00 Published as Final Version 04.00

### 10.11.2022 03.00 Published as Final Version 03.00

### 29.07.2022 02.00 Published as Final version 02.00

### 01.04.2022 01.00 Published as Final version 01.00


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG2.TS.Use-Case-Requirements-R004-v10.04.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG2.TS.Use-Case-Requirements-R004-v10.04"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions [given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1] and the following] apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1].

A1: Interface between orchestration/NMS layer containing Non-RT RIC and eNB/gNB containing Near-RT RIC.

A1 policy: Type of declarative policies expressed using formal statements that enable the Non-RT RIC function in the SMO to guide the Near-RT RIC function, and hence the RAN, towards better fulfilment of the RAN intent.

A1 enrichment information: Information utilized by Near-RT RIC that is collected or derived at SMO/Non-RT RIC either from non-network data sources or from network functions themselves.

E2: Interface between Near-RT RIC and the Multi-RAT CU protocol stack and the underlying RAN DU.

- **E2 node:**: O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU, O-gNB, O-eNB.
Energy consumption: Integral of power consumption over time [i.5].

Energy efficiency: Relation between the useful output and energy/power consumption [i.4].

FCAPS: Fault, Configuration, Accounting, Performance, Security.

Intents: A declarative policy to steer or guide the behavior of RAN functions, allowing the RAN function to calculate the optimal result to achieve stated objective.

Near-RT RIC: O-RAN Near-Real-Time RAN Intelligent Controller: A logical function that enables near-real-time control and optimization of RAN elements and resources via fine-grained data collection and actions over E2 interface.

Non-RT RIC: O-RAN Non-Real-Time RAN Intelligent Controller: A logical function in the SMO framework that enables non-real-time control and optimization of RAN elements and resources, AI/ML workflow including model training and updates, and policy-based guidance of applications/features in Near-RT RIC. The Non-RT RIC is comprised of the Non-RT RIC framework and Non-RT RIC applications (rApps).

Non-RT RIC framework: Functionality internal to the SMO framework that logically terminates the A1 interface and provides the R1services to rApps through the R1 interface.

NMS: A Network Management System.

O-CU: O-RAN Central Unit: A logical node hosting O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP.

O-CU-CP: O-RAN Central Unit – Control Plane: A logical node hosting the RRC and the control plane part of the PDCP protocol.

O-CU-UP: O-RAN Central Unit – User Plane: A logical node hosting the user plane part of the PDCP protocol and the SDAP protocol.

O-DU: O-RAN Distributed Unit: A logical node hosting RLC/MAC/High-PHY layers based on a lower layer functional split.

O-RU: O-RAN Radio Unit: A logical node hosting Low-PHY layer and RF processing based on a lower layer functional split. This is similar to 3GPP’s “TRP” or “RRH” but more specific in including the Low-PHY layer (e.g., FFT/iFFT, PRACH extraction).

O1: Interface between management entities (NMS/EMS/MANO) and O-RAN managed elements, for operation and management, by which FCAPS management, software management, file management can be achieved.

RAN: Generally referred as Radio Access Network. In terms of this document, any component below Near-RT RIC per O-RAN architecture, including O-CU/O-DU/O-RU.

rApp: Non-RT RIC application: An application designed to consume and /or produce R1 Services.

NOTE: rApps can leverage the functionality provided by the SMO and Non-RT RIC framework to deliver value added services related to intelligent RAN optimization and operation.

R1 interface: Interface between rApps and Non-RT RIC framework via which R1 Services can be produced and consumed.

R1 services: A collection of services including, but not limited to, service registration and discovery services, authentication and authorization services, AI/ML workflow services, and A1, O1 and O2 interface related services.

## 3.2 Symbols

- Void

## 3.3 Abbreviations

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations [given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1] and the following] apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1].

- **5QI**: 5G Quality of Service Identifier
- **ASM**: Advanced Sleep Mode
- **CAM**: Cooperative Awareness Message
- **EC**: Energy Consumption
- **EE**: Energy Efficiency
- **eNB**: eNodeB (applies to LTE)
- **ES**: Energy Saving
- **gNB**: gNodeB (applies to NR)
- **KPI**: Key Performance Indicator
- **KQI**: Key Quality Indicator
- **m-MIMO**: Massive Multiple Input, Multiple Output
- **MBB**: Mobile BroadBand
- **QoE**: Quality of Experience
- **RIC**: O-RAN RAN Intelligent Controller
- **SINR**: Signal-to-Interference-plus-Noise Ratio
- **SMO**: Service Management and Orchestration
- **SSB**: Synchronization Signal Block

# 4 Use cases

## 4.1 Traffic steering

This use case provides the motivation, description, and requirements for traffic steering use case, allowing operators to specify different objectives for traffic management such as optimizing the network/UE performance, or achieving balanced cell load.

### 4.1.1 Background and goal of the use case

5G systems will support many different combinations of access technologies namely; LTE (licensed band), NR (licensed band), NR-U (unlicensed band), Wi-Fi (unlicensed band). Several different multi-access deployment scenarios are possible with 5GC to support wide variety of applications and satisfy the spectrum requirements of different service providers;

- Carrier aggregation between licensed band NR (primary cell) and NR-U (secondary cell)
- Dual connectivity between licensed band NR (primary cell) and NR-U (secondary cell)
- Dual connectivity between licensed band LTE (primary cell) and NR-U (secondary cell)
The rapid traffic growth and multiple frequency bands utilized in a commercial network make it challenging to steer the traffic in a balanced distribution. Further in a multi-access system there is need to switch the traffic across access technologies based on changes in radio environment and application requirements and even split the traffic across multiple access technologies to satisfy performance requirements. The different types of traffic and frequency bands in a commercial network make it challenging to handle the complex QoS aspects, bearer selection (Master Cell Group (MCG) bearer, Secondary Cell Group (SCG) bearer, split bearer), bearer type change for load balancing, achieving low latency and best in class throughput in a multi-access scenario with 5GC networks (as specified in 3GPP TS 37.340 [8]). Typical controls are limited to adjusting the cell reselection and handover parameters; modifying load calculations and cell priorities; and are largely static in nature when selecting the type of bearers and QoS attributes.

Further, the RRM (Radio Resource Management) features in the existing cellular network are either cell-centric or UE-centric. Even in different areas within a cell, there are variations in radio environment, such as neighboring cell coverage, signal strength, interference status, etc. However, base stations based on traditional control strategies treat all UEs in a similar way and both cell- and UE-centric algorithms do exist.

Such current solutions suffer from following limitations:

1) It is hard to adapt the RRM control to diversified scenarios and optimization objectives.

2) The traffic management strategy is usually passive, rarely taking advantage of capabilities to predict network and UE performance. The strategy needs to consider aspects of steering, switching and splitting traffic across different access technologies in a multi-access scenario.

3) Non-optimal traffic management, with slow response time, due to various factors such as inability to select the right set of UEs for control action. This further results in non-optimal system and UE performance, such as suboptimal spectrum utilization, reduced throughput and increased handover failures.

Based on the above reasons, the main objective of this use case is to allow operators to flexibly configure the desired optimization policies, utilize the right performance criteria, and leverage machine learning to enable intelligent and proactive traffic management.

### 4.1.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case

- SMO (including Non-RT RIC):
- Retrieve necessary performance, configuration, and other data for defining and updating policies to guide the behavior of traffic management function in Near-RT RIC. For example, the policy could relate to specifying different optimization objectives to guide the carrier/band preferences at per-UE or group of UE granularity.
- Retrieve necessary performance, configuration, and other data for performing data statistical analysis that will provide enrichment information for Near-RT RIC to assist in the traffic steering function. For example, this could be an analysis method to construct radio fingerprint based on UE measurement report with RSRP/RSRQ/CQI information for serving and neighbouring cells.
- Support communication of policies to Near-RT RIC.
- Support communication of measurement configuration parameters to RAN nodes.
- Support communication of enrichment information to Near-RT RIC, e.g., radio fingerprint information, etc.
- Near-RT RIC:
- Support interpretation and enforcement of policies from Non-RT RIC.
- Support using enrichment information to optimize control function, e.g., Near-RT RIC can use radio finger print to directly predict the inter-frequency cell measurement based on the intra-frequency cell measurement result to speed up the traffic steering with much reduced signaling overhead.
- E2 nodes:
- Support data collection with required granularity to SMO over O1 interface.

### 4.1.3 Solutions

#### 4.1.3.1 Traffic steering – policy part

The context of traffic steering – policy part is captured in table 4.1.3.1-1.

| Use Case Stage | Evolution / Specification | <<Uses>> Related use |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Goal | Drive traffic management in RAN in accordance with defined intents, policies, and configuration. |  |
| Actors and Roles | Non-RT RIC: RAN policy control function. Near-RT RIC: RAN policy enforcement function. E2 nodes: Control plane and user plane functions. SMO/Collection & Control: Termination point for O1 interface. |  |
| Assumptions | All relevant functions and components are instantiated.  A1 and interface connectivity is established with Non-RT RIC. O1 interface connectivity is established with SMO/Collection & Control. |  |
| Pre-conditions | Network is operational. SMO/Collection & Control has established the data collection and sharing process, and Non-RT RIC has access to this data. Non-RT RIC monitors the performance by collecting the relevant performance events and counters from E2 nodes via SMO/Collection & Control. |  |
| Begins when | Operator specified trigger condition or event is detected. |  |
| Step 1 (O) | If required, Non-RT RIC can request via SMO additional, more specific, performance measurement data to be collected from E2 nodes to assess the performance. |  |
| Step 2 (M) | Non-RT RIC decides an action and communicates relevant policies to Near-RT RIC over A1. The example policies can include:  QoS targets Preferences on which cells to allocate control plane and user plane Preferences on user traffic distribution over primary cells and secondary cells Preferences on on which carriers to be used for primary component carriers and secondary component carriers in multiple frequency coordination to optimize user traffic distribution |  |
| Step 3 (M) | The Near-RT RIC receives relevant information from Non-RT RIC over A1 interface, interprets the policies and enforces them. |  |
| Step 4 (M) | Non-RT RIC decides that conditions to continue the policy are no longer valid. |  |
| Ends when | Non-RT RIC deletes the policy. |  |
| Exceptions | None identified. |  |
| Post Conditions | Non-RT RIC monitors the performance by collecting the relevant performance events and counters from E2 nodes via SMO. |  |
| Traceability | REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN1, REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN2, REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN3, REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN4, REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN5 REQ-A1-FUN1  REQ-Non-RT-RIC-NonFUN1, REQ-Non-RT-RIC-NonFUN2 |  |

Traffic steering use case flow diagram given in figure 4.1.3.1-1 illustrates the overall procedure for the traffic steering use case.

#### 4.1.3.2 Traffic steering – EI part

The context of traffic steering – EI part is captured in table 4.1.3.2-1.

| Use Case Stage | Evolution / Specification | <<Uses>> Related use |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Goal | Assist in traffic optimization in RAN in accordance with produced enrichment information. |  |
| Actors and Roles | Non-RT RIC: Enrichment information generation function. Near-RT RIC: Enrichment information consumption function. E2 nodes: Control plane and user plane functions. SMO/Collection & Control: Termination point for O1 interface. |  |
| Assumptions | All relevant functions and components are instantiated.  A1 and interface connectivity is established with Non-RT RIC. O1 interface connectivity is established with SMO/Collection & Control. |  |
| Pre-conditions | Network is operational. SMO/Collection & Control has established the data collection and sharing process, and Non-RT RIC has access to this data. Non-RT RIC monitors the performance by collecting the relevant performance events and counters from E2 nodes via SMO/Collection & Control. Non-RT RIC performs data analytics to generate/update the enrichment information. |  |
| Begins when | Operator specified trigger condition or event is detected. |  |
| Step 1 (O) | If required, Non-RT RIC can request via SMO additional, more specific, performance measurement data to be collected from E2 nodes to assess the performance. |  |
| Step 2 (M) | When receiving EI request/subscription message from Near-RT RIC, Non-RT RIC responds/notifies relevant enrichment information to Near-RT RIC over A1. The example enrichment information can include:  Radio fingerprint |  |
| Step 3 (M) | The Near-RT RIC uses the enrichment information to optimize control function. |  |
| Step 4 (M) | In the EI subscription-notification mode, if there is an update on enrichment information. Non-RT RIC notifies the updated enrichment information to Near-RT RIC over A1 for optimizing control function. |  |
| Stop When | In the EI subscription-notification mode, EI notification continues until Non-RT RIC receives unsubscription message from Near-RT RIC. |  |
| Exceptions | None identified. |  |
| Post Conditions | Non-RT RIC monitors the performance by collecting the relevant performance events and counters from E2 nodes via SMO. |  |
| Traceability | REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN1, REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN2, REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN3, REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN5, REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN7 REQ-A1-FUN2  REQ-Non-RT-RIC-NonFUN1, REQ-Non-RT-RIC-NonFUN2 |  |

Traffic steering use case flow diagram (with EI part) is given in figure 4.1.3.2-1.

### 4.1.4 Required data

The measurement counters and KPIs (as defined by 3GPP and will be extended for O-RAN use cases) should be appropriately aggregated by cell, QoS type, slice, etc.

Measurement reports with RSRP/RSRQ/CQI information for serving and neighboring cells. In multi-access scenarios this will also include intra-RAT and inter-RAT measurement reports, cell quality thresholds, CGI reports and measurement gaps on per-UE or per-frequency.

UE connection and mobility/handover statistics with indication of successful and failed handovers, other metrics including threshold of number of UEs to trigger traffic management at O-DU, O-CU-CP, etc.

Cell load statistics such as information in the form of number of active users or connections, number of scheduled active users per TTI, PRB utilization, and CCE utilization, bearer metrics such as number of bearers to trigger traffic management at O-DU, O-CU-CP, etc.

Per user performance statistics such as PDCP throughput, RLC or MAC layer latency, DL throughput thresholds to trigger traffic management at O-DU, O-CU-CP, etc.

### 4.1.5 A1 usage example

An example scenario is here used to describe the use of A1 for traffic management, implying the Non-RT RIC sending policies for allocation of the control plane (RRC) and the user plane for different services, identified by their 5QI.

In the scenario a UE with UEid=1, belonging to a subnet slice identified by S-NSSAI=1, having a voice (5QI=1) and an MBB (5QI=9) connection established, enters an area covered by four frequency bands. The Non-RT RIC understands the requirements and characteristics of the services and decides to let the voice and RRC connection reside on the low band (here covered by a macro cell B becoming the PCell), while the MBB connection should preferably use the higher band (here provided by a smaller cell C and D becoming the SCells) and avoid the low band if possible. Cell A is used for MBB if required for coverage reasons.

Policies are sent to any cell of concern, e.g., where the UE resides and can move.

The desired use of the cells is shown in figure 4.1.5-1.

Two policies over A1 are needed to accomplish the desired behavior, described in JSON format below. Note that as part of the scope, the cell_id is optional, and if omitted it is up to the Near-RT RIC to locate the UE and there enforce the policy.

{

"policy_id": "1",

"scope": {

"ue_id": "1",

"slice_id": "1",

"qos_id": "1",

“cell_id”: ”X”	// Policy for Cell X, where X is one of A, B, C or D

},

"statement": {

"cell_id_list": "B",

"preference": "Shall",

"primary": true	// Control plane on Cell B (becoming PCell)

},

"statement": {

"cell_id_list ": "B",

"preference": "Shall",

"primary": true	// Voice on Cell B

}

}

{

"policy_id": "2",

"scope": {

"ue_id": "1",

"slice_id": "1",

"qos_id": "9",

“cell_id”: ”X”	// Policy for Cell X, where X is one of A, B, C or D

},

"statement": {

"cell_id_list ": {"B", “A”},

"preference": "Avoid",

"primary": false	// Avoid MBB on Cell A and Cell B

},

"statement": {

"cell_id_list": {“C”, “D”},

"preference": "Prefer",

"primary": false	// Prefer MBB on Cell C and Cell D

}

}

Besides the cell level preference policy, there are also carrier level preference policy for the traffic steering use case. Taking the above scenario as an example, the UE with UEid=1, belonging to a subnet slice identified by S-NSSAI=1, having a voice (5QI=1) and an MBB (5QI=9) connection established, enters the area covered by four cells identified by cell A, cell B, cell C and cell D, respectively.

Assuming that cell A and cell B work on the same frequency carrier  which can be identified by Arfcn_1,  cell C and cell D work on the same frequency carrier which can be identified by Arfcn_2. Carrier Arfcn_1 is in low frequency and have narrow bandwidth and adapt to voice (5QI=1) connection. Carrier Arfcn_2 is in high frequency and have wide bandwidth and adapt to MBB (5QI=9) connection, meanwhile, avoid connection to the low frequency bands.

The following policies are needed to accomplish this as described in JSON format below.

{

"policy_id": "1",

"scope": {

"ue_id": "1",

"slice_id": "1",

"qos_id": "1",

“cell_id”: ”X”	// Policy for Cell X, where X is one of A, B, C or D

},

"statement": {

"carrier_id_list": "Arfcn_1",

"preference": "Prefer",

"primary": true	// Control plane on Carrier Arfcn_1 (becoming Primary Component Carrier)

},

}

{

"policy_id": "2",

"scope": {

"ue_id": "1",

"slice_id": "1",

"qos_id": "9",

“cell_id”: ”X”	// Policy for Cell X, where X is one of A, B, C or D

},

"statement": {

"carrier_id_list ": "Arfcn_1",

"preference": "Avoid",

"primary": false	// Avoid MBB on Carrier Arfcn_1, and no carrier in the carrier_id_list is to be used as secondary component carrier. That is said, Arfcn_1 is not used as secondary component carrier, because it is already used for primary component carrier as the policy 1 stated.

},

"statement": {

"carrier_id_list": “Arfcn_2”,

"preference": "Prefer",

"primary": false	// Prefer MBB on Carrier Arfcn_2, and Arfcn_2 is used as secondary component carrier

}

}

### 4.1.6 Enrichment information example

### 4.1.7 A1 usage example in multi-access environment

The Non-RT RIC can send policies for traffic distribution in a multi-access environment based on UE characteristics and traffic patterns for different services that can be identified by their 5QI. The following example scenario illustrates this, in which there are three UEs with the following characteristics.

| UE Identifier | UE Id=1, S-NSSAI =1 | UE Id=2, S-NSSAI =2 | UE Id=3, S-NSSAI =3 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| User Traffic | 5QI=1: Voice 5QI=8: FTP, Email | 5QI=1: Voice 5QI=8: Email 5QI=83: Advanced driving | 5QI=1: Voice  5QI=8: Progressive video 5QI=8: File sharing |
| Mobility Pattern | Stationary | High mobility | Low mobility |

The UEs are in an area covered by three frequency bands identified by cell A, cell B and cell C respectively. Cell A is the macro licensed cell with the best coverage. Cell B is the unlicensed cell with limited coverage and cell C is a licensed cell with narrow bandwidth but provides greater coverage area than cell B.

The cell layout for multi-access use case is shown in figure 4.1.7-1.

From a traffic distribution perspective, since UE with UE Id=1 is a stationary UE the FTP and email traffic with (5QI=8) should preferably be routed over secondary unlicensed cell B and should avoid licensed cells, cell A and cell C. The voice traffic should be routed over cell A.

For UE with UE Id=2, since it is a highly mobile UE, all the traffic should be routed over licensed cells, preferably cell A to avoid disruption in connections. However, if there is a shortage of bandwidth in cell A, the email traffic (5QI=8) can be routed over unlicensed band (cell B). Given that this is a high mobility UE, there can be a policy that a minimum of 50% and maximum of 70% of all traffic from this UE should be routed over cell A which should be the primary cell and remaining can be routed over secondary cell.

For UE with UE Id=3, since it is a low mobility UE both the progressive video (5QI=8) and file sharing (5QI=8) should be routed over unlicensed band (cell B). The voice traffic should be routed over cell A.

The following policies are needed to accomplish this as described in JSON format below.

- Policy Id 1: For group of UEs with UE Id, 1, 2 and 3. It sets the preference for voice traffic (5QI=1) on cell A for all the UEs. Further, dual connectivity should be enabled for all these UEs whenever possible.
- Policy Id 2: For group of UEs with UE Id, 1 and 3. It sets the preference for all traffic with (5QI=8) on cell B for both the UEs and also avoids cell A and cell C for routing this traffic.
- Policy Id 3: For UE with UE Id=2. It sets the preference for advanced driving traffic with (5QI=83) on cell A and C and also avoids cell B for routing this traffic.
- Policy Id 4: For UE with UE Id=2. It sets the preference for email traffic with (5QI=8) on cell A and C for the high mobility UE. However, it does not avoid use of cell B for routing this traffic in case of bandwidth limitation.
- Policy Id 5: For UE with UE Id=2. It sets the preference that minimum of 50% and a maximum of 70% of all traffic from this UE should be routed through cell A for this UE.
{

"group_id": "1",

"ue_id_list": {"1","2","3"} // Define group_1 list of UEs, 1, 2 and 3

"policy_id": "1",

"scope": {

"group_id": "1",

"qos_id": "1",

"cell_id": ”X”	// Policy for Cell X, where X is one of A, B, or C for this group of UEs

},

"statement": {

"cell_id_list": "A",

"preference": "Prefer",

"dual connectivity": true, // dual connectivity is preferred for UEs in group 1

"primary": true	// Cell A is preferred primary cell for 5QI=1 (Voice), for UEs in group 1

}

}

{

"group_id": "2",

"ue_id_list": {"1","3"} // Define group_1 list of UEs, 1 and 3

"policy_id": "2",

"scope": {

"group_id": "2",

"qos_id": "8",

"cell_id": ”X”	// Policy for Cell X, where X is one of A, B, or C

},

"statement": {

"cell_id_list": {"A", "C"},

"preference": "Avoid",

"primary": false	// Avoid 5QI=8 traffic on Cell A and C

},

"statement": {

"cell_id_list": {"B"},

"preference": "Prefer",

"primary": false	// Prefer 5QI=8 traffic on Cell B for stationary and low mobility UEs

}

}

{

"policy_id": "3",

"scope": {

"ue_id": "2",

"slice_id": "2",

"qos_id": "83",

"cell_id": ”X”	// Policy for Cell X, where X is one of A, B, or C

},

"statement": {

"cell_id_list ": {"B"},

"preference": "Avoid",

"primary": false	// Avoid 5QI=83 traffic on Cell B

},

"statement": {

"cell_id_list": {"A", "C"},

"preference": "Prefer",

"primary": true	// Prefer 5QI=83 traffic on Cell A or C for high mobility UE

}

}

{

"policy_id": "4",

"scope": {

"ue_id": "2",

"slice_id": "2",

"qos_id": "8",

"cell_id": ”X”	// Policy for Cell X, where X is one of A, B, or C

},

"statement": {

"cell_id_list": {"A", "C"},

"preference": "Prefer",

"primary": true	// Prefer 5QI=8 traffic on Cell A or C and don’t avoid cell B

}

}

{

"policy_id": "5",

"scope": {

"ue_id": "2",

"slice_id": "2",

"traffic distribution": "X" // Policy for traffic distribution

},

"statement": {

"cell_id_list": {"A"},

"preference": "Prefer",

"minimum": "50%",

"maximum": "70%", // Prefer 50-70% of traffic distribution on cell A for this UE

}

}

## 4.2 QoE optimization

This use case provides the background and motivation for the O-RAN architecture to support real-time QoE optimization. Moreover, some high-level description and requirements over Non-RT RIC, A1 and E2 interfaces are introduced.

### 4.2.1 Background and goal of the use case

The highly demanding 5G native applications such as cloud VR are both bandwidth consuming and latency sensitive. However, for such traffic-intensive and highly interactive applications, current semi-static QoS framework cannot efficiently satisfy diversified QoE requirements especially taking into account potentially significant fluctuation of radio transmission capability. It is expected that QoE estimation/prediction from application level can help deal with such uncertainty and improve the efficiency of radio resources, and eventually improve user experience.

The main objective is to ensure QoE optimization be supported within the O-RAN architecture and its open interfaces. Multi-dimensional data, e.g., user traffic data, QoE measurements, network measurement report, can be acquired and processed via ML algorithms to support traffic recognition, QoE prediction, and QoS enforcement decisions. ML models can be trained offline and model inference will be executed in a real-time manner. Focus should be on a general solution that would support any specific QoE use case (e.g., cloud VR, video, etc.).

### 4.2.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case

- Non-RT RIC:
- Retrieve necessary QoE related measurement metrics from network level measurement report and SMO (can acquire data from application) for constructing/training relevant AI/ML model that will be deployed in Near-RT RIC to assist in the QoE optimization function. For example, this could be application classification, QoE prediction, and available bandwidth prediction.
- Training of potential ML models for predictive QoE optimization, which can respectively autonomously recognize traffic types, predict quality of experience, or predict available radio bandwidth.
- Send policies/intents to Near-RT RIC to drive the QoE optimization at RAN level in terms of expected behavior.
- Near-RT RIC:
- Support update of AI/ML models from Non-RT RIC.
- Support execution of the AI/ML models from Non-RT RIC, e.g., application classification, QoE prediction, and available bandwidth prediction.
- Support interpretation and execution of intents and policies from Non-RT RIC to derive the QoE optimization at RAN level in terms of expected behavior.
- Sending QoE performance report to Non-RT RIC for evaluation and optimization.
- E2 nodes:
- Support network state and UE performance report with required granularity to SMO over O1 interface.
- Support QoS enforcement based on messages from A1/E2, which are expected to influence RRM behavior.

### 4.2.3 Solutions

#### 4.2.3.1 Model training and distribution

The context of model training and distribution is captured in table 4.2.3.1-1.

| Use Case Stage | Evolution / Specification | <<Uses>> Related use |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Goal | Model training and distribution. |  |
| Actors and Roles | Non-RT RIC, Near-RT RIC, SMO, application server |  |
| Assumptions | -	All relevant functions and components are instantiated.  -	A1/O1 interface connectivity is established with Non-RT RIC. |  |
| Pre-conditions | Near-RT RIC and Non-RT RIC are instantiated with A1 interface connectivity being established between them. |  |
| Begins when | Operator specified trigger condition or event is detected. |  |
| Step 1 (M) | QoE related measurement metrics from SMO (can acquire data from application) and network level measurement report either for instantiating training of a new ML model or modifying existing ML model. |  |
| Step 2 (M) | Non-RT RIC does the model training, obtains QoE related models, and can deploy QoE policy model internally. An example of QoE-related models that can be used at the Near-RT RIC is provided as follows:  Application classification model (optional and can refer to 3rd party’s existing functionality) QoE prediction model QoE policy model Available BW prediction model |  |
| Step 3 (M) | Non-RT RIC deploys/updates the AI/ML model in the Near-RT RIC via O1. |  |
| Step 4 (M) | Near-RT RIC stores the received QoE related ML models in the ML model inference platform and based on requirements of ML models. |  |
| Step 5(O) | If required, Non-RT RIC can configure specific performance measurement data to be collected from RAN to assess the performance of AI/ML models and update the AI/ML model in Near-RT RIC based on the performance evaluation and model retraining. |  |
| Ends when | Operator specified trigger condition or event is satisfied. |  |
| Exceptions | None. |  |
| Post Conditions | Near-RT RIC stores the received QoE related ML models in the ML Model inference platform and execute the model for QoE optimization function in Near-RT RIC. |  |
| Traceability | REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN1, REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN3, REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN4, REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN5 REQ-A1-FUN1, REQ-A1-FUN2, REQ-A1-FUN4 |  |

The QoE use case flow diagram – model training and distribution/update is given in figure 4.2.3.1-1.

#### 4.2.3.2 Policy generation and performance evaluation

The context of policy generation and performance evaluation is captured in table 4.2.3.2-1.

| Use Case Stage | Evolution / Specification | <<Uses>> Related use |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Goal | Policy generation and performance evaluation. |  |
| Actors and Roles | Non-RT RIC, Near-RT RIC, SMO |  |
| Assumptions | -	All relevant functions and components are instantiated.  -	A1/O1 interface connectivity is established with Non-RT RIC. |  |
| Pre-conditions | QoE related models have been deployed in Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC respectively. |  |
| Begins when | The network operator/manager want to generate QoE policy or optimize QoE related AI/ML models. |  |
| Step 1 (M) | Non-RT RIC evaluates the collected data and generates the appropriate QoE optimization policy. |  |
| Step 2 (M) | Non-RT RIC sends the QoE optimization policy to Near-RT RIC via A1 interface. |  |
| Step 3 (M) | Near-RT RIC receives the policy from the Non-RT RIC over the A1 interface. And the Near-RT RIC inferences the QoE related AI/ML models and converts policy to specific E2 control or policy commands. |  |
| Step 4 (M) | Near-RT RIC sends the E2 control or policy commands towards RAN for QoE optimization. |  |
| Step 5 (M) | RAN enforces the received control or policy from the Near-RT RIC over the E2 interface. |  |
| Step 6 (O) | If required, Non-RT RIC can receive policy feedback from Near-RT RIC and performance measurement data collected from SMO to assess the performance of the QoE optimization function in Near-RT RIC, or to assess the outcome of the applied A1 policies. And then update A1 policy and E2 control or policy. |  |
| Ends when | Operator specified trigger condition or event is satisfied. |  |
| Exceptions | None. |  |
| Post Conditions | Non-RT RIC monitors the performance of the QoE optimization related function in Near-RT RIC by collecting and monitoring the relevant performance KPIs and counters from RAN. |  |
| Traceability | REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN1, REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN3, REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN4, REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN5 REQ-A1-FUN1, REQ-A1-FUN2, REQ-A1-FUN4 |  |

The QoE use case flow diagram – policy generation and performance evaluation is given in figure 4.2.3.2-1.

### 4.2.4 Required data

Multi-dimensional data are expected to be retrieved by Non-RT RIC for AI/ML model training and policies/intents generation.

- Network level measurement report, including:
- UE level radio channel information, mobility related metrics
- L2 measurement report related to traffic pattern, e.g., throughput, latency, packets per-second, inter frame arrival time
- RAN protocol stack status: e.g., PDCP buffer status
- Cell level information: e.g., DL/UL PRB occupation rate
- QoE related measurement metrics collected from SMO (can acquire data from application or network).
- User traffic data, which can be obtained via a proprietary interface from existing data collection equipment and is currently out of the scope of A1 or E2.

### 4.2.5 A1 usage example

There are 3 examples to explain how A1 policy woks for QoE optimization.

One is for ue_id (100), slice_id (1) and qos_id (5QI =50), the target QoE score (for example video MOS 80) should be satisfied.

{

"policy_id": "1",

"scope": {

"ue_id": "100",

"slice_id": "1",

"qos_id": "50"

},

"statement": {

"qoe_score": "80"

}

}

The second example is to regulate specific QoE targets, for example, initial buffering time for video streaming is required within 2 seconds, rebuffering frequency is 2 times and stalling ratio is 5% for a customized time window (e.g., 30 seconds).

{

"policy_id": "2",

"scope": {

"ue_id": "101",

"slice_id": "1",

"qos_id ": "51"

},

"statement": {

"initial_buffering": “2”,

"reBuffFreq":“2”,

"stallRatio": “5”

}

}

The specific user id need not be required, and only slice_id and flow_id are required for specific QoE targets.

{

"policy_id": "3",

"scope": {

"slice_id": "1",

"flow_id": "51"

},

"statement": {

"initial_buffering":”2”,

"reBuffFreq":“2”,

"stallRatio": “5”

}

}

## 4.3 QoS based resource optimization

This use case provides the background and motivation for the O-RAN architecture to support RAN QoS based resource optimization. Moreover, some high-level description and requirements over Non-RT RIC and A1 interfaces are introduced.

### 4.3.1 Background and goal of the use case

QoS based resource optimization can be used when the network has been configured to provide some kind of preferential QoS for certain users. One such scenario can be related to when the network has been configured to support e2e slices. In this case, the network has functionality that ensures resource isolation between slices as well as functionality to monitor that slice Service Level Specifications (SLS) are fulfilled.

In RAN, it is the scheduler that ensures that Physical Resource Block (PRB) resources are isolated between slices in the best possible way and also that the PRB resources are used in an optimal way to best fulfill the SLS for different slices. The desired default RAN behavior for slices is configured over O1. For example, the ratio of physical resources (PRBs) reserved for a slice is configured at slice creation (instantiation) over O1. Also, QoS can be configured to guide the RAN scheduler how to (in real-time) allocate PRB resources to different users to best fulfill the SLS of a specific slice. In the NR NRM this is described by the resource partition attribute.

Instantiation of a RAN sub-slice will be prepared by rigorous planning to understand to what extent deployed RAN resources will be able to support RAN sub-slice SLS. Part of this procedure is to configure RAN functionality according to above. With this, a default behavior of RAN is obtained that will be able to fulfill slice SLSs for most situations. However, even through rigorous planning, there will be times and places where the RAN resources are not enough to fulfill SLS given the default configuration. To understand how often (and where) this happens, the performance of a RAN slice will continuously be monitored by SMO. When SMO detects a situation when RAN SLS cannot be fulfilled, Non-RT RIC can use A1 policies to improve the situation. To understand how to utilize A1 policies and how to resolve the situation, the Non RT-RIC will use additional information available in SMO.

Take an emergency service as an example of a slice tenant. For this example, it is understood (at slice instantiation) that 50% of the PRBs in an area can be enough to support the emergency traffic under normal circumstances. Therefore, the ratio of PRBs for the emergency users is configured to 50% as default behavior for the pre-defined group of users belonging to the emergency slice. Also, QoS is also configured in core network and RAN so that video cameras of emergency users get a minimum bitrate of 500 kbps.

Now, suppose a large fire is ongoing and emergency users are on duty. Some of the personnel capture the fire on video on site. The video streams are available to the emergency control command. Because of the high traffic demand in the area from several emergency users (belonging to the same slice), the resources available for the emergency slice is not enough to support all the traffic. In this situation, the operator has several possibilities to mitigate the situation. Depending on SLAs towards the emergency slice compared to SLAs for other slices, the operator could reconfigure the amount of PRB reserved to emergency slice at the expense of other slices. However, there is always a risk that emergency video quality is not good enough irrespective if all resources are used for emergency users. It might be that no video shows sufficient resolution due to resource limitations around the emergency site.

In this situation, the emergency control command decides, based on the video content, to focus on a selected video stream to improve the resolution. The emergency control system gives the information about which users to up- and down-prioritize to the E2E slice assurance function (through e.g., an edge API) of the mobile network to increase bandwidth for selected video stream(s). Given this additional information, the Non-RT RIC can influence how RAN resources are allocated to different users through a QoS target statement in an A1 policy. By good usage of the A1 policy, the emergency control command can ensure that dynamically defined group of UEs provides the video resolution that is needed.

The use case can be summarized as per below:

### 4.3.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case

- Non-RT RIC:
- Monitor necessary QoS related metrics from network function and other SMO functions.
- Send policies to Near-RT RIC to drive QoS based resource optimization at RAN level in terms of expected behavior.
- Near-RT RIC:
- Support interpretation and execution of A1 policies for QoS based resource optimization.
- E2 nodes:
- Support network state and UE performance report with required granularity to SMO over O1 interface.
- Support QoS enforcement based on messages from E2, which are expected to influence RRM behavior.

### 4.3.3 Solutions

#### 4.3.3.1 QoS based resource optimization

The context of QoS based resource optimization is captured in table 4.3.3.1-1.

| Use Case Stage | Evolution / Specification | <<Uses>> Related use |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Goal | Drive QoS based resource optimization in RAN in accordance with defined policies and configuration. |  |
| Actors and Roles | Non-RT RIC: Creates A1 policies. Near-RT RIC: Enforces A1 policies. RAN: Policy enforcement.  SMO: Termination point for O1 interface. |  |
| Assumptions | All relevant functions and components are instantiated and configured according wanted default behavior.  A1 interface connectivity is established with Non-RT RIC. O1 interface connectivity is established with SMO. The default configuration will handle most situations. |  |
| Pre-conditions | Network is operational with default configuration. SMO has established the data collection and sharing process, and Non-RT RIC has access to this data. Non-RT RIC analyzes the data from RAN to understand the current resource consumption. |  |
| Begins when | Non-RT RIC observes that resources are close to congestion in a certain area. |  |
| Step 1 (O) | If needed, Non-RT RIC orders additional RAN observability, SMO configures additional observability over O1. |  |
| Step 2 | Non-RT RIC evaluates RAN resource utilization for all users in a slice in specific area. |  |
| Step 3 | Non-RT RIC asks for additional information from additional SMO functionality, e.g., E2E slice assurance function. |  |
| Step 4 | Non-RT RIC determines dynamic group of users for which QoS target shall be changed. |  |
| Step 5 | Non-RT issues A1 policy/policies with QoS target based on information from other SMO functionality. |  |
| Ends when | Non-RT RIC (through O1 observability) understands that situation of resource constraints within the slice is resolved, and the deployed policies are deleted over A1. |  |
| Exceptions | None identified. |  |
| Post Conditions | Non-RT RIC monitors the performance by collecting the relevant performance events and counters from E2 nodes via SMO. |  |
| Traceability | REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN1, REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN2, REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN3, REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN4, REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN5 REQ-A1-FUN1 |  |

The flow diagram of the QoS based resource optimization use case is given in figure 4.3.3.1-1.

### 4.3.4 Required data

For this use case, different kind of observability need to be reported to Non-RT RIC. First Non-RT RIC shall monitor resource consumption in the area. As long as resource consumption is low, the RAN scheduler will be able to give all users in an area the needed resources. When resource consumption in an area increases above a threshold, there is risk of that the default configuration of RAN will not be enough to fulfil the requirements. At this point, the Non-RT RIC need to be able to configure more detailed reporting for individual UEs that the Non-RT RIC is interested in. This detailed observability should provide the Non RT RIC better insight in performance for specific users and therefore includes observability of e.g., user throughput and delay. With this more detailed observability, the Non-RT RIC can understand when pre-configured priorities are not enough for the scheduler to solve the problem and when additional (non-RAN) information to solve the prioritization is needed.

### 4.3.5 A1 usage example

Example scenario

- One emergency RAN sub-slice defined (S-NSSAI=1) with a ratio of 50% configured. 5QI=74 configured for a minimum bitrate of 500 kbps.
- 4 UEs (UeId=10, 11, 12, 13) in the area which belongs to S-NSSAI = 1 and with active flows of 5QI = 74.
- Resource shortage means that minimum bitrate 500 kbps cannot be fulfilled for all users.
- E2E Slice assurance function indicates to Non-RT RIC that UeId=10 and 12 needs to be prioritized.
- Because of resource shortage, increasing minimum bitrate for UeId=10 and 12 will not improve, instead minimum bitrate for other users in slice needs to be lowered.
{

{

"policy_id": "1",

"scope": {

"ue_id": "11",

"slice_id": "1",

"flow_id": "74"

},

"statement": {

"gfbr": "0"

}

}

{

"policy_id": "2",

"scope": {

"ue_id": "13",

"slice_id": "1",

"flow_id": "74"

},

"statement": {

"gfbr": "0"

}

}

- An alternative way to temporarily change RAN behavior for S-NSSAI=1 users is to change the relative priority in the scheduler. This would change the relative resource assignment to different users with different priority.
- {
- {
- "policy_id": "1",
- "scope": {
- "ue_id": "10",
- "slice_id": "1",
- "flow_id": "74"
- },
- "statement": {
- "priority_level": "10"
- }
- }
- {
- "policy_id": "2",
- "scope": {
- "ue_id": "12",
- "slice_id": "1",
- "flow_id": "74"
- },
- "statement": {
- "priority_level": "10"
- }
- }
- {
- "policy_id": "3",
- "scope": {
- "ue_id": "11",
- "slice_id": "1",
- "flow_id": "74"
- },
- "statement": {
- "priority_level": "1"
- }
- }
- {
- "policy_id": "4",
- "scope": {
- "ue_id": "13",
- "slice_id": "1",
- "flow_id": "74"
- },
- "statement": {
- "priority_level": "1"
- }
- }

## 4.4 Context-based dynamic HO management for V2X

This use case provides the background, motivation, and requirements for the context-based dynamic HO management for V2X use case, allowing operators to adjust radio resource allocation policies through the O-RAN architecture, reducing latency and improving radio resource utilization.

### 4.4.1 Background and goal of the use case

V2X communication allows for numerous potential benefits such as increasing the overall road safety, reducing emissions, and saving time. Part of the V2X architecture is the V2X UE (SIM + device attached to vehicle) which communicates with the V2X Application Server (V2X AS). The exchanged information comprises Cooperative Awareness Messages (CAMs) (from UE to V2X AS) [i.2], radio cell IDs, connection IDs, and basic radio measurements (RSRP, RSPQ, etc.)

As vehicles traverse along a highway, due to their high speed and the heterogeneous natural environment V2X UEs are handed over frequently, at times in a suboptimal way, which can cause handover (HO) anomalies: e.g., short stay, ping-pong, and remote cell. Such suboptimal HO sequences substantially impair the functionality of V2X applications. Since HO sequences are mainly determined by the Neighbor Relation Tables (NRTs), maintained by the xNBs, there is hardly room for UE-level customization.

This UC aims to present a method to avoid and/or resolve problematic HO scenarios by using past navigation and radio statistics in order to customize HO sequences on a UE level. To this end, the AI/ML functionality that is enabled by the Near-RT RIC is employed.

### 4.4.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case

- Non-RT RIC:
- Retrieve necessary performance, configuration, and other data for constructing/training relevant AI/ML models that will be deployed in Near-RT RIC to assist in the V2X HO management function. For example, this could be a clustering algorithm that classifies traffic situations and radio conditions that (probably) do or do not lead to HO anomalies.
- Support deployment and update of AI/ML models into Near-RT RIC xApp.
- Support communication of intents and policies (system-level and UE-level) from Non-RT RIC to Near-RT RIC.
- Support communication of non-RAN data to enrich control functions in Near-RT RIC (enrichment data).
- Near-RT RIC:
- Support update of AI/ML models retrieved from Non-RT RIC.
- Support interpretation and execution of intents and policies from Non-RT RIC.
- Support necessary performance, configuration, and other data for defining and updating intents and policies for tuning relevant AI/ML models.
- Support communication of configuration parameters to RAN.
- E2 nodes:
- Support data collection with required granularity to SMO over O1 interface.
- Support near-real-time configuration-based optimization of HO parameters over E2 interface.
- Report necessary performance, configuration, and other data for performing real-time V2X HO optimization in the Near-RT RIC over E2 interface.
- V2X application server:
- Support data collection with required granularity from V2X UE over V1 interface.
- Support communication of real-time traffic related data about V2X UE to Non-RT RIC as enrichment data.

### 4.4.3 Solutions

#### 4.4.3.1 Context-based dynamic handover management for V2X

The context of the context-based dynamic handover management for V2X is captured in table 4.4.3.1-1.

| Use Case Stage | Evolution / Specification | <<Uses>> Related use |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Goal | Drive V2X UE HOs in RAN according to defined intents, policies, and configuration while enabling AI/ML-based solutions. |  |
| Actors and Roles | Non-RT RIC: RAN policy control function. Near-RT RIC: RAN policy enforcement function. RAN: Policy enforcement for configuration updates. SMO: Termination point for O1 interface. V2X AS: Termination point for V1 interface and enrichment data provider. |  |
| Assumptions | All relevant functions and components are instantiated.  A1, O1, E2 interface connectivity is established. |  |
| Pre-conditions | Network is operational. SMO has established the data collection and sharing process, and Non-RT RIC has access to this data. Non-RT RIC analyzes the historical data from RAN and V2X AS for training the relevant AI/ML models to be deployed or updated in the Near-RT RIC, as well as AI/ML models required for real-time optimization of configuration and policies. |  |
| Begins when | Operator specified trigger condition or event is detected. |  |
| Step 1 (M) | Non-RT RIC deploys/updates the AI/ML model in the Near-RT RIC via O1 or Non-RT RIC assigns/update the AI/ML model for the Near-RT RIC xApp via A1. |  |
| Step 2 (M) | Non-RT RIC communicates relevant policies/intents and enrichment data to the Near-RT RIC over the A1 interface. The enrichment data from the non-RAN data can include V2X UE location, trajectory, navigation information, GPS data, CAMs. |  |
| Step 3 (M) | The Near-RT RIC receives the relevant info from the Non-RT RIC over the A1 interface and from the RAN over the E2 interface, interprets the policies and updates the AI/ML models. |  |
| Step 4 (M) | The Near-RT RIC infers optimal RAN configuration (UE-specific NRTs) according to the trained AI/ML models and communicates the result to the RAN over E2 interface. |  |
| Step 5 (M) | RAN deploys the configuration received from the Near-RT RIC over the E2 interface. |  |
| Step 6 | If required, Non-RT RIC can configure specific performance measurement data to be collected from RAN to assess the performance of the V2X HO management function in Near-RT RIC, or to assess the outcome of the applied policies and configuration. |  |
| Ends when | Operator specified trigger condition or event is satisfied. |  |
| Exceptions | None identified. |  |
| Post Conditions | Non-RT RIC monitors the performance of the V2X HO related function in Near-RT RIC by collecting and monitoring the relevant performance KPIs and counters from the RAN and the V2X AS. |  |
| Traceability | REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN1, REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN2, REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN3, REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN4, REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN7 REQ-A1-FUN1, REQ-A1-FUN2, REQ-A1-FUN3, REQ-A1-FUN5 |  |

- The flow diagram of the V2X HO management use case is given in figure 4.4.3.1-1.

### 4.4.4 Required data

The measurement counters and KPIs (as defined by 3GPP) should be appropriately aggregated by cell, QoS type, slice, etc.

Measurement reports with RSRP/RSRQ/CQI information for serving and neighboring cells.

- UE connection and mobility/handover statistics with indication of successful and failed handovers and error codes, etc.
V2X related data: position, velocity, direction, navigation data, CAMs.

### 4.4.5 Proposed solution(s)

#### 4.4.5.1 Workflow overview

The use case workflow consists of these main components:

1.	Data collection & maintenance: This is required at Non-RT RIC (over O1 and Enrichment Interface (EI)). Required radio measurements and V2X related metrics are collected over a longer period of time (sufficient to facilitate model training). The O1/EI data collection is used for offline training of models, as well as for generating A1 policies for V2X HO optimization. The E2 (and EI) data collection is used for model execution in the Near-RT RIC. Details of the models are described below.

2.	Long-term HO analytics & model maintenance: The Non-RT RIC long-term analytics is responsible for providing the relevant models for V2X HO optimization over A1 interface. Based on O-RAN A1 interface specs v1, these policies can be defined at per-UE level, UE group level, cell or xNB level etc. This will provide the optimization scope/objective for the Near-RT RIC V2X HO xApp. The xApp hosts two AI/ML-assisted functions: 1. HO anomaly detection & prediction, 2. HO anomaly avoidance. The 1. trained model's input is [E2: HO sequences, UE radio measurements; EI: position, velocity, direction, (O) navigation data, (O) cell load data of cells in the area] of a given time window, while the output is [anomaly likelihoods for possible future HO sequences]. The 2. trained model's input is [E2 report, EI report, output of 1. model, (O) navigation data, (O) cell load data of cells in the area] and its output is [UE-customized NRT sequence for cells that the UE is about to touch, with lower anomaly likelihood, (O) with validity time]. The two models are regularly retrained/updated based on new radio/V2X data.

4.	HO anomaly prediction & detection: The navigation information and HO sequence and predicted HO sequence of V2X UEs in scope are evaluated and HO anomalies are detected or predicted. If any, it is delegated for further consideration for HO sequence optimization.

5.	HO sequence optimization: Based on the E2 and enrichment reports and the prediction/detection output, the trained AI/ML model outputs UE-customized NRTs for the cells that I. are in scope, II. the UE is about to come in touch with.

6.	V2X HO optimization execution: The new NRTs are deployed at xNBs through E2 policies.

#### 4.4.5.2 Overview of ML models

While many combinations and deployments are possible, this proposal outlines one specific set of models and analytics that can be useful to drive such a use case.

NonRT_Model1: The Non-RT RIC ML-assisted solution uses the O1-based and EI-based data collection to monitor the V2X UE HO performance metrics and the navigation indicators (position, direction, speed, (O) traffic indicators). Based on the performance monitoring, the model aims to represent navigation and radio environments/conditions and maintain a data base in order to classify HO situations. Input: historical radio, HO, and location, direction, velocity data. Output: maintained database with locations, directions, velocities and cells, HO situations, HO anomalies, and/or sequences of all these, together with prevalence rates (=estimated probabilities).

NearRT_Model1: The first ML-assisted near-RT xApp model in the Near-RT RIC aims to rate/score future/current HO situations (on a UE level) based on real-time radio (E2) and navigation conditions (EI), i.e., predict/detect anomalous HO situations. Input: per-UE current radio parameters, HO history, location, direction, velocity. Output: predicted HO sequence(s) with probabilities for anomalies at specific cell pairs.

NearRT_Model2: The second ML-assisted near-RT xApp model in the Near-RT RIC aims to choose alternative, UE specific NRTs for a set of cells and UEs so as to resolve or avoid anomalous HO situations. Input: input and output of the NearRT_Model1. Output: alternative, UE specific NRTs for some cells (e.g., with temporal validity/expiration time).

### 4.4.6 A1 enrichment interface aspects

1. As per ETSI EN 302 637-2 [i.2], V2X UE provides CAMs (which include its GPS coordinates) on a 0.1-1s temporal granularity to the V2X application server. The inference part of this use case depends on accurate navigation data from V2X UEs, thus we expect this data to be provided through the A1-EI without substantial processing or delay.

2. The data (in particular the GPS coordinates) received over A1-EI need to be correlated with RAN UE data. For this problem there might be different requirements for the training data collection and the inference data collection. E.g., the UE data association might be solved using the ECGI + C-RNTI identifiers at any point in time (inference), but when collecting historical data for training it is essential to save the data in such a way that later correlation is possible as well.

### 4.4.7 A1 usage example

As of now the A1 aspect of the use case is confined to whether the HO optimization is, within a certain scope, activated or not. Thus, some of the attributes can overlap with the policy scope, but they are proposed in order to allow for more fine-grained control (e.g., optimize for only vehicles that are faster than 100 km/h [vel_range], between 7am and 9am on workdays [time_range], within a given geographical area [pos range] or [cell_id_list].)

The proposed (optional) attributes of the statement type v2x_nrt_opt are captured in table 4.4.7-1.

| Attribute name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | Applicability |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| cell_id_list | Array | “M” | "1..N" | list of CellIDs |  |
| time_range | Array | "O" | "1..N" | refers to the time intervals of activation |  |
| pos_range | Array | "O" | "1..N" | refers to GPS position ranges of activation |  |
| vel_range | Array | "O" | "1..N" | refers to velocity ranges of activation |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |

{

"title": "policies",

"description": "O-RAN A1 policy",

"type": "object",

"properties": {

"policy_id": {"type": "string"},

"scope": {

…

},

"statement": {

"cell_id_list": {"type": "number"},

"time_range": {"type": "number"},

" pos_range": {"type": "number"},

" vel_range": {"type": "number"}

}

}

}

## 4.5 RAN slice SLA assurance

The 3GPP standards architected a sliceable 5G infrastructure which allows creation and management of customized networks to meet specific service requirements that can be demanded by future applications, services and business verticals. Such a flexible architecture needs different requirements to be specified in terms of functionality, performance and group of users which can greatly vary from one service to the other. The 5G standardization efforts have gone into defining specific slices and their Service Level Agreements (SLAs) based on application/service type as specified in 3GPP TS 23.501 [2]. Since network slicing is conceived to be an end-to-end feature that includes the core network, the transport network and the Radio Access Network (RAN), these requirements should be met at any slice subnet during the life-time of a network slice as specified in 3GPP TS 28.530 [3], especially in RAN side. Exemplary slice performance requirements are specified in terms of throughput, energy efficiency, latency and reliability at a high level in SDOs such as 3GPP TS 22.261 [1] and GSMA [9]. These requirements are defined as a reference for SLA/contractual agreements for each slice, which individually need proper handling in NG-RAN.

Although network slicing support is started to be defined with 3GPP Release 15, slice assurance mechanisms in RAN needs to be further addressed to achieve deployable network slicing in an open RAN environment. It is necessary to assure the SLAs by dynamically controlling slice configurations based on slice specific performance information. Existing RAN performance measurements as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5] and information model definitions as specified in 3GPP TS 28.541 [4] are not enough to support RAN slice SLA assurance use cases. This use case is intended to clarify necessary mechanisms and parameters for RAN slice SLA assurance.

### 4.5.1 Background and goal of the use case

In the 5G era, network slicing is a prominent feature which provides end-to-end connectivity and data processing tailored to specific business requirements. These requirements include customizable network capabilities such as the support of very high data rates, traffic densities, service availability and very low latency. According to 5G standardization efforts, the 5G system can support the needs of the business through the specification of several service needs such as data rate, traffic capacity, user density, latency, reliability, and availability. These capabilities are always provided based on a Service Level Agreement (SLA) between the mobile operator and the business customer, which brought up interest for mechanisms to ensure slice SLAs and prevent its possible violations. O-RAN’s open interfaces and AI/ML based architecture will enable such challenging mechanisms to be implemented and help pave the way for operators to realize the opportunities of network slicing in an efficient manner.

### 4.5.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case

- Non-RT RIC:
- Retrieve RAN slice SLA target from respective entities such as SMO, NSSMF.
- Long term monitoring of RAN slice performance measurements.
- Training of potential ML models that will be deployed in Non-RT RIC for slow loop optimization and/or Near-RT RIC for fast loop optimization.
- Support deployment and update of AI/ML models into Near-RT RIC.
- Receive slice control/slice SLA assurance rApps from SMO.
- Create and update A1 policies based on RAN intent and A1 feedback.
- Send A1 policies and enrichment information to Near-RT RIC to drive slice assurance.
- Send O1 reconfiguration requests to SMO for slow-loop slice assurance.
- Near-RT RIC:
- Near-real-time monitoring of slice specific RAN performance measurements.
- Support deployment and execution of the AI/ML models from Non-RT RIC.
- Receive slice SLA assurance xApps from SMO.
- Support interpretation and execution of policies from Non-RT RIC.
- Perform optimized RAN (E2) actions to achieve RAN slice requirements based on O1 configuration, A1 policy, and E2 reports.
- E2 nodes:
- Support slice assurance actions such as slice-aware resource allocation, prioritization, etc.
- Support slice specific performance measurements through O1.
- Support slice specific performance reports through E2.

### 4.5.3 Solutions

#### 4.5.3.1 Creation and deployment of RAN slice SLA assurance applications

The context of the creation and deployment of RAN slice SLA assurance applications is captured in table 4.5.3.1-1.

| Use Case Stage | Evolution / Specification | <<Uses>> Related use |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Goal | Training and distribution of the RAN slice SLA assurance applications. |  |
| Actors and Roles | Non-RT RIC, Near-RT RIC, SMO |  |
| Assumptions | All relevant functions and components are instantiated.  A1, O1 interface connectivity is established. |  |
| Pre-conditions | Near-RT RIC and Non-RT RIC are instantiated with A1 interface. A1 connectivity being established between them. O1 interface is established between SMO and Near-RT RIC. |  |
| Begins when | A RAN slice is activated, or an operator defined trigger is detected. |  |
| Step 1 (M) | Non-RT RIC retrieves a RAN slice SLA from SMO (e.g., from NSSMF). |  |
| Step 2a (O) | Non-RT RIC starts to collect slice specific performance measurements (PMs) via O1. Examples of the PMs are CSI, PRB usage, L2 throughput, RAN latency, etc. Applicable PMs are specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5]. |  |
| Step 2b (O) | Non-RT RIC starts to collect Enrichment Information (EIs) from external applications. Examples of the external applications are public safety application triggering slice priority during an emergency event, or location-based enrichment information, etc. |  |
| Step 3 (O) | Non-RT RIC does the model training during a certain period of time using the collected data in step 2 and generates RAN slice SLA assurance AI/ML models. |  |
| Step 4 (M) | Non-RT RIC deploys RAN slice SLA assurance rApp (which can include the newly trained AI/ML model(s)). |  |
| Step 5 (O) | Non-RT RIC deploys RAN slice SLA assurance xApp(s) to respective Near-RT RICs (which can include the newly trained AI/ML model(s)). |  |
| Step 6 (O) | Non-RT RIC continues collecting slice specific performance measurements (PMs) via O1 and receives/utilizes A1 feedback if available. Non-RT RIC can update the AI/ML models within rApp and xApp(s). |  |
| Ends when | A RAN slice is deactivated. |  |
| Exceptions | None identified. |  |
| Post Conditions | RAN slice SLA assurance applications are deployed. |  |
| Traceability | REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN1, REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN2, REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN3, REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN4, REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN5, REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN9, REQ-A1-FUN2, REQ-A1-FUN4 |  |

- The flow diagram of the creation and deployment of RAN slice SLA assurance applications is given in figure 4.5.3.1-1.

#### 4.5.3.2 RAN slice SLA assurance

The context of RAN slice SLA assurance is captured in table 4.5.3.2-1.

| Use Case Stage | Evolution / Specification | <<Uses>> Related use |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Goal | RAN slice SLA assurance |  |
| Actors and Roles | SMO functions, Non-RT RIC framework, RAN slice SLA assurance rApp, Near-RT RIC, E2 nodes |  |
| Assumptions | All relevant functions and components are instantiated.  A1, O1, E2 interface connectivity is established. |  |
| Pre-conditions | Near-RT RIC and Non-RT RIC are instantiated with A1 interface connectivity being established between them. O1 interfaces are established between SMO and Near-RT RIC, and SMO and E2 nodes. RAN slice SLA assurance applications have been deployed in Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC respectively. |  |
| Begins when | A RAN slice is activated, or an operator defined trigger is detected. |  |
| Step 1 (M) | RAN slice SLA assurance rApp retrieves relevant information from Non-RT RIC framework via R1, such as active RAN slices (such as active S-NSSAIs, network slice subnet instances, topology), RAN slice SLA information, NF configuration, etc. |  |
| Step 2 (O) | RAN slice SLA assurance rApp retrieves relevant enrichment information from Non-RT RIC framework via R1. |  |
| Step 3a (M) | RAN slice SLA assurance rApp requests relevant slicing specific PMs.   Examples of the PMs are layer 2 throughput, PRB usage, CSI, RAN latency. |  |
| Step 3b (M) | Non-RT RIC framework triggers retrieval of requested O1 PMs by interacting with SMO. |  |
| Step 3c (M) | RAN slice SLA assurance rApp starts retrieving E2 node generated slice specific PMs from Non-RT RIC framework via R1. |  |
| Step 4 (M) | RAN slice SLA assurance rApp monitors and evaluates performance of RAN slices which can include detection of possible RAN slice SLA violation. |  |
| Step 5 (O) | RAN slice SLA assurance rApp decides to apply O1 reconfiguration on certain E2 nodes and/or Near-RT RIC. RAN slice SLA assurance rApp triggers O1 reconfiguration through Non-RT RIC framework using R1. |  |
| Step 6a (O) | RAN slice SLA assurance rApp decides to apply A1 policy based RAN slice SLA assurance considering RAN slice SLA requirements and/or operator-defined RAN intents, EI from external application servers and O1 based long term trends. In addition to these input parameters, A1 feedback from Near-RT RIC, when available, can be utilized for updating existing policies.   The policies include scope identifiers (e.g., S-NSSAI, flow ID, and cell ID) and/or policy statements (e.g., slice specific KPI targets). |  |
| Step 6b (O) | RAN slice SLA assurance rApp triggers creation/update/removal of A1 policies on respective Near-RT RICs through Non-RT RIC framework via R1. |  |
| Step 6c (O) | Non-RT RIC framework applies A1 policy creation/update/removal on respective Near-RT RICs through A1 interface. |  |
| Step 6d (O) | Near-RT RIC applies A1 policy-based RAN slice SLA assurance. |  |
| Step 6e (O) | RAN slice SLA assurance rApp retrieves A1 feedback generated from respective Near-RT RICs. Steps include Near-RT RIC sending the A1 feedback via A1 to Non-RT RIC framework, and then rApp retrieving this feedback via R1 from Non-RT RIC framework. |  |
| Ends when | RAN slice(s) is deactivated or an operator defined trigger is detected. |  |
| Exceptions | None identified. |  |
| Post Conditions | SLA assurance for RAN slice(s) over a period of time is achieved. |  |
| Traceability | REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN1, REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN5, REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN8, REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN9, REQ-A1-FUN1, REQ-A1-FUN3, REQ-A1-FUN5 |  |

- The flow diagram of the RAN slice SLA assurance is given in figure 4.5.3.2-1.

### 4.5.4 Required data

The measurement counters and KPIs (as defined by 3GPP and will be extended for O-RAN use cases) should be appropriately aggregated by cell, QoS type, slice, etc. Examples for required data for RAN slice SLA assurance use case are as follows:

Per UE and/or per slice performance statistics as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], 3GPP TS 36.314 [6], 3GPP TS 38.314 [7], 3GPP TS 28.558 [23] such as:

CQI related measurements; such as wideband CQI distribution (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.1.11.1)

UE throughput related measurements; such as average DL / UL UE throughput in gNB (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clauses 5.1.1.3.1, 5.1.1.3.3), scheduled IP throughput in DL/UL (as specified in 3GPP TS 36.314 [6], clauses 4.1.6.1, 4.1.6.2)

RRC connection related measurements; such as mean / max number of RRC connections (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clauses 5.1.1.4.1, 5.1.1.4.2), attempted / successful RRC connection establishments (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clauses 5.1.1.15.1, 5.1.1.15.2)

DRB related measurements; such as number of DRBs attempted to / successfully setup (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clauses 5.1.1.10.1, 5.1.1.10.2)

PDU session management related measurements; such as number of PDU sessions requested to / successfully / failed to setup (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clauses 5.1.1.5.1, 5.1.1.5.2, 5.1.1.5.3)

Number of active UEs; such as mean number of active UEs in the UL / DL per cell (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clauses 5.1.1.23.1, 5.1.1.23.3)

Radio resource utilization related measurements; such as mean DL / UL PRB used for data traffic (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clauses 5.1.1.2.5, 5.1.1.2.7)

PDCP data volume measurements; such as DL / UL PDCP PDU data volume (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clauses 5.1.3.6.1.1, 5.1.3.6.1.2), data volume in DL/UL (as specified in 3GPP TS 36.314 [6], clauses 4.1.8.1, 4.1.8.2)

Average user plane delay; such as UL PDCP packet average delay (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.558 [23], clause 6.3.1.1.5), average delay DL air-interface (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.1.1.1), average delay UL on over-the-air interface (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.1.1.3), average delay DL in gNB-DU (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.3.3.3), average delay DL on F1-U (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.3.3.2), average delay DL in CU-UP (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.3.3.1), average over-the-air interface packet delay in the UL per DRB per UE (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.314 [7], clause 4.2.1.2.2), average delay DL air-interface (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.558 [23], clause 6.3.1.1.1)

Packet drop and loss rate measurements; such as DL RLC SDU packet drop rate in gNB-DU (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.3.2.2), UL / DL F1-U packet loss rate (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clauses 5.1.3.1.2, 5.1.3.1.3), packet Uu loss rate in the DL per DRB per UE (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.314 [7], clause 4.2.1.5.1)

O1 configuration information for NR NRM such as NRCellCU (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.541 [4], clause 4.3.4), NRCellDU (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.541 [4], clause 4.3.5), GNBDUFunction (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.541 [4], clause 4.3.1), GNBCUCPFunction (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.541 [4], clause 4.3.2), GNBCUUPFunction (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.541 [4], clause 4.3.3), RRMPolicy_ (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.541 [4], clause 4.3.43)

Slice SLA information; such as ServiceProfile (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.541 [4], clause 6.3.3), SliceProfile (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.541 [4], clause 6.3.4)

Enrichment information; such as UE geo-location information (as specified in A1TD [24], clause 8.3.3.2)

### 4.5.5 A1 usage example

Example scenario 1

- One mobile leased line network slice for live broadcasting is defined (S-NSSAI=1).
- The SLA for the slice is defined with the total UL/DL throughput of 30 Mbps of the users in the slice provided in the coverage area (cellId=1, 2, 3).
- Non-RT RIC generates A1 policy for Near-RT RIC slice SLA assurance, which includes S-NSSAI and cellId as scope identifiers, and per-slice total PDCP layer throughput target as a policy statement.
- Near-RT RIC enforces the policy and guides RAN behavior via E2 to meet the slice SLA.
{

"PolicyId": "1",

"scope": {

"sliceId": "1",

“cellId”: ”1”, ”2”, ”3”, // Multiple cellIds need to be supported

},

"statement": {

"uLThptPerSlice": "30"

"dLThptPerSlice": "30"

}

}

Example scenario 2

Background of the scenario

SLA violation occurs when a cell is congested, and not enough resources are allocated to slice users. To minimize this kind of SLA violation, load balancing is effective.

Although load balancing can be performed using traffic steering preference policy type, that approach is insufficient to reduce the load to desired level, because there will be a gap between the actual load and the load recognized by Non-RT RIC due to long monitoring and control interval of Non-RT RIC. As shown in figure 4.5.5-1, the near-real-time control loop can achieve smaller reaction time than the non-real-time control loop. Therefore, it is preferable to use Near-RIC for load balancing.

In this scenario, by using A1 policy for load balancing, the load balancing is performed in a shorter cycle, which is more effective in assuring slice SLAs.

Overall flow in the scenario

In this scenario, Non-RT RIC monitors the load and performance under the cell and decides whether the cell load should be balanced or not. Only when cell congestion is detected or predicted, A1 policy for load balancing is sent to Near-RT RIC, and Near-RT RIC performs cell load balancing to ease the cell congestion and solve SLA violation.

The following example describes the overall steps in load balancing to assure slice SLAs defined by delay requirement. Note that the step number corresponds to the number given in figure 4.5.5-2.

- An A1 policy (PolicyId: 1) corresponding to SLA of slice #1, which includes delay requirement per UE for users of cell A~E, and slice #1, is sent from Non-RT RIC to Near-RT RIC.
- To monitor the cell load and performance of delay, Non-RT RIC collects mean DL PRB used for data traffic (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.1.2.5) from cell A~E, and distribution of delay DL air-interface (per S-NSSAI) (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.1.1.2) from cell A~E via O1.
- In Non-RT RIC, when the load of cell A is high, and the percentage of packets of slice #1 experiencing a longer delay than required, Non-RT RIC determines that the SLA violation is due to high load and decides to start load balancing. Non-RT RIC sends an A1 policy (PolicyId: 2) to transfer the load of cell A to neighboring non-congested cells (cell B, D and E) until the load of cell A becomes smaller than 80%.
- To monitor the load and radio quality, Near-RT RIC collects mean DL PRB used for data traffic (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.1.2.5) from cell A~E, and per-UE RSRP measurement and RSRQ measurement (as specified in E2SM-KPM [16], clauses 8.2.1.2.2, 8.2.1.2.3 and in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clauses 5.1.1.22, 5.1.1.31) via E2.
- Near-RT RIC decides the combination of UEs to be handed over and target cells based on the information collected in (4). Near-RT RIC sends E2 CONTROL for UE-level hand over control to decrease the load of cell A below 80%.
- Non-RT RIC continues to monitor the cell load and performance. When Non-RT RIC decides that the cell load becomes low enough to not cause SLA violation, it notifies deletion of the policy (PolicyId: 2) to Near-RT RIC.
Figure 4.5.5-2: Illustration of the overall flow in the load balancing scenario

{

"PolicyId": "2",

"scope": {

“cellId”: ”A” // Designate a cell of which load is to be transferred to other cells

},

"lbObjectives": {

"targetPrbUsg": 80 // Target load of Cell A       "prbUsgType": 1 // PRB usage type used in the calculation of targetPrbUsg

},

"lbResources": {

"cellIdList": "B", "D", "E", // Designate cells to which cell load is transferred

}

}

The illustration of the cell congestion in multi-cell environment is given in figure 4.5.5-3.

Figure 4.5.5-3: Illustration of the cell congestion in multi-cell environment

### 4.5.6 O1 usage example

Example scenario

- One mobile leased line network slice for live broadcasting is defined (S-NSSAI=1).
- The SLA for the slice is defined with the average total UL/DL throughput of 30 Mbps of the users in the slice provided in the coverage area (cellId=1, 2, 3).
- Note that O1 configuration is used to assure SLAs defined as long term performance values such as average throughput, which do not need frequent reconfiguration.
- In order to calculate the number of required PRBs to meet throughput requirement of the slice, Non-RT RIC collects wideband CQI distribution and data volume in UL/DL via O1. The calculated value is converted to the portion of PRB allocation to the slice i.e., rRMPolicyDedicatedRatio (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.541 [4]).
- Non-RT RIC sends rRMPolicyDedicatedRatio as O1 reconfiguration requests to E2 nodes.
- Non-RT RIC also collects UL/DL PRB used for data traffic and average UL/DL UE throughput in gNB. When the PRB usage becomes low, Non-RT RIC reconfigures rRMPolicyDedicatedRatio via O1 to decrease the allocated PRBs. When the PRB usage becomes high and throughput deterioration occurs, Non-RT RIC reconfigures rRMPolicyDedicatedRatio via O1 to increase the allocated PRBs.
The illustration of the RRMPolicy reconfiguration via O1 is given in figure 4.5.6-1.

## 4.6 NSSI resource allocation optimization

This use case provides the background, objectives, solution, and requirements for the NSSI resource optimization, an rApp implemented in Non-RT RIC, which leverages AI/ML inference on slice performance measurement data to determine the actions to automatically optimize the resource allocation for network slice instances.

### 4.6.1 Background and goal of the use case

Network slicing is essential to 5G, as it enables many new services across manufacturing, autonomous driving, gaming, and many more via the provision of ultra-low latency in URLLC and huge data volume in eMBB features that require different or contrasting QoS requirements exploiting a shared RAN node. The goal of this use case is to ensure the resources are allocated dynamically and efficiently among multiple network slices sharing the RAN node.

As the new 5G services have different characteristics, the network traffic tends to be sporadic, where there can be different usage pattern in terms of time, location, UE distribution, and types of applications. For example, most IoT sensor applications can run during off-peak hours or weekends. Special events, such as sport games, concerts, can cause traffic demand to shoot up at certain time and locations. Cars with autonomous driving capability tend to require more URLLC services in the morning or afternoon rush hours in major freeways in big cities, while subscribers tend to consume eMBB services to watch video streaming at night in residential areas. Therefore, NSSI resource optimization rApp trains the AI/ML model, based on the huge volume of performance data collected over days, weeks, months from O-RAN nodes. It then performs inference function on the model with input measurements to predict the traffic demand patterns of 5G networks in different times and locations for each network slice, and automatically optimize the resource allocation for network slice instances accordingly.

### 4.6.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case

- Non-RT RIC:
- Receive measurements to monitor the usage of RRM resources (e.g., PRB, RRC, DRB) identified by S-NSSAI from E2 nodes via the O1 interface.
- Perform the model training with input measurements data received from E2 nodes to create the model.
- Perform the inference function on the model with the input measurements data to determine if any actions shall be executed to update the resources on the E2 nodes.
- Configure the resources at the E2 nodes via O1 interface.
- Receive notifications from E2 nodes indicating the resource re-configuration was done.
- Update the O-Cloud resources via the O2 interface.
- Receive notifications from O-Cloud indicating the resource was updated.
- E2 nodes (O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, D-DU):
- Support the collections and reporting of measurements that are used to monitor the resource usage on per network slice basis via the O1 interface.
- Support the re-configuration of attributes to update the resources allocated to each network slice via the O1 interface.

### 4.6.3 Solutions

#### 4.6.3.1 NSSI resource optimization

The context of the NSSI resource optimization is captured in table 4.6.3.1-1.

| Use Case Stage | Evolution / Specification | <<Uses>> Related use |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Goal | The goal is to ensure the resources (e.g., PRB, RRC, DRB) are allocated dynamically and efficiently among multiple network slices sharing the E2 nodes. |  |
| Actors and Roles | - SMO functions. - Non-RT RIC framework. - rApp: NSSI resource optimization. - E2 nodes (i.e., O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU). |  |
| Assumptions | - All relevant functions and components are instantiated.  - O1 interface connectivity is established. |  |
| Pre-conditions | - O1 interfaces have been established to enable SMO to receive measurements from E2 nodes and configure the E2 nodes. - R1 interface has been established to enable the rApp to receive measurements form E2 nodes and configure the E2 nodes via Non-RT RIC framework. - E2 nodes have been configured to collect the measurements and send them to Non-RT RIC framework. |  |
| Begins when | The rApp utilizes the model to perform the inference function. |  |
| Step 1 (M) | The rApp performs the offline model training with input measurements data received from E2 nodes to create the model. |  |
| Step 2 (M) | Non-RT RIC framework receives the measurements from O-CU-CP via O1 to monitor the usage of RRM resources (e.g., RRC connected user). |  |
| Step 3 (M) | Non-RT RIC framework sends the measurements to rApp via R1 interface. |  |
| Step 4 (M) | Non-RT RIC framework receives the measurements from O-CU-UP via O1 to monitor the usage of RRM resources (e.g., the number of DRB allocated, and the number of PDU sessions). |  |
| Step 5 (M) | Non-RT RIC framework sends the measurements to rApp via R1 interface. |  |
| Step 6 (M) | Non-RT RIC framework receives the measurements from O-CU-UP via O1 to monitor the usage of RRM resources (e.g., the number of PRBs used in the downlink and uplink data traffic). |  |
| Step 7 (M) | Non-RT RIC framework sends the measurements to rApp via R1 interface. |  |
| Step 8 (M) | The rApp performs the inference function based on the model with input measurements data received to determine the actions to update the resources allocated to slices on the E2 nodes if needed. |  |
|  | If the rApp decides the RRM resources (e.g., RRC) in O-CU-CP need to be updated, then steps 9 to 12 are executed. |  |
| Step 9 (O) | rApp requests Non-RT RIC framework via R1 interface to update the RRM resources for slices in O-CU-CP. |  |
| Step 10 (O) | Non-RT RIC framework uses the modify MOI (Managed Object Instance) operation to configure the MOI(s) associated with the RRM resources at O-CU-CP via O1 interface. |  |
| Step 11 (O) | Non-RT RIC framework receives a notification from O-CU-CP via O1 interface indicating the resource re-configuration was successful. |  |
| Step 12 (O) | Non-RT RIC framework notifies rApp via R1 interface indicating the RRM resources in O-CU-CP have been successfully updated. |  |
|  | If the rApp decides the RRM resources (e.g., DRB) in O-CU-UP need to be updated, then steps 13 to 16 are executed. |  |
| Step 13 (O) | rApp requests Non-RT RIC framework via R1 interface to update the RRM resources for slices in O-CU-UP. |  |
| Step 14 (O) | Non-RT RIC framework uses the modify MOI operation to configure the MOI(s) associated with the RRM resource at O-CU-UP via O1 interface. |  |
| Step 15 (O) | Non-RT RIC framework receives a notification from O-CU-UP via O1 interface indicating the resource re-configuration was successful. |  |
| Step 16 (O) | Non-RT RIC framework notifies rApp via R1 interface indicating the RRM resources in O-CU-UP have been successfully updated. |  |
|  | If the rApp decides the RRM resources (e.g., PRB) in O-DU need to be updated, then steps 17 to 20 are executed. |  |
| Step 17 (O) | rApp requests Non-RT RIC framework via R1 interface to update the RRM resources for slices in O-DU. |  |
| Step 18 (O) | Non-RT RIC framework uses the modify MOI operation to configure the MOI(s) associated with the RRM resource at O-DU via O1 interface. |  |
| Step 19 (O) | Non-RT RIC framework receives a notification from O-DU via O1 interface indicating the resource re-configuration was successful. |  |
| Step 20 (O) | Non-RT RIC framework notifies rApp via R1 interface indicating the RRM resources in O-DU have been successfully updated. |  |
|  | If the rApp decides the O-Cloud resources need to be updated, then steps 21 to 24 are executed: |  |
| Step 21 (O) | rApp requests Non-RT RIC framework via R1 interface to update the O-Cloud resources. |  |
| Step 22 (O) | Non-RT RIC framework re-configures the O-Cloud resources via O2 interface. |  |
| Step 23 (O) | Non-RT RIC framework receives a notification via O2 interface indicating the resource re-configuration was successful. |  |
| Step 24 (O) | Non-RT RIC framework notifies rApp via R1 interface indicating the O-Cloud resources have been successfully updated. |  |
| Ends when | The resources have been optimized. |  |
| Exceptions | None identified. |  |
| Post Conditions | None. |  |
| Traceability | REQ-R1-FUN9, REQ-R1-FUN10. |  |

> NOTE: How the O-Cloud resources are to be monitored and updated is not defined in the present document.
The flow diagram of the NSSI resource optimization is given in figure 4.6.3.1-1.

### 4.6.4 Required data

This sub-clause contains the input and output data of model training and inference.

#### 4.6.4.1 Input data

The measurement input data are used in model training and inference. They include the following measurements to monitor the resource usage for network slices in E2 nodes:

- 1) Measurements used to monitor the usage of RRC related resources in O-CU-CP include:
- Mean number of RRC connections – provides the mean number of RRC connections with sub-counters per S-NSSAI (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.1.4.1).
- Max number of RRC connections – provides the max number of RRC connections with sub-counters per S-NSSAI (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.1.4.2).
- 2) Measurements used to monitor the usage of DRB related resources in O-CU-UP include:
- Mean number of DRBs being allocated – provides the mean number of DRBs being allocated in the PDU sessions with sub-counters per S-NSSAI (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.1.10.9).
- Peak number of DRBs being allocated – provides the peak number of DRBs being allocated in the PDU sessions with sub-counters per S-NSSAI (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.1.10.10).
- 3) Measurements used to monitor the usage of PRB related resources in O-DU include:
- Mean DL PRB used for data traffic – provides the mean number of PRBs used in downlink for data traffic with sub-counters per S-NSSAI (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.1.2.5).
- Peak DL PRB used for data traffic – provides the peak number of PRBs used in downlink for data traffic with sub-counters per S-NSSAI (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.1.2.9).
- Mean UL PRB used for data traffic – provides the mean number of PRBs used in uplink for data traffic with sub-counters per S-NSSAI (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.1.2.7).
- Peak UL PRB used for data traffic – provides the peak number of PRBs used in uplink for data traffic with sub-counters per S-NSSAI (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.1.2.10).
- Mean number of PDU sessions being allocated – provides the mean number of PDU sessions being allocated with sub-counters per S-NSSAI (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.1.5.4).
- Peak number of PDU sessions being allocated – provides the peak number of PDU sessions being allocated with sub-counters per S-NSSAI (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.1.5.5).
- Mean number of active UEs in the DL per cell – provides the mean number of active UEs in downlink with sub-counters per S-NSSAI (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.1.23.1).
- Max number of active UEs in the DL per cell – provides the max number of active UEs in downlink with sub-counters per S-NSSAI (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.1.23.2).
- Mean number of active UEs in the UL per cell – provides the mean number of active UEs in uplink with sub-counters per S-NSSAI (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.1.23.3).
- Max number of active UEs in the UL per cell – provides the max number of active UEs in uplink with sub-counters per S-NSSAI (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.1.23.4).

#### 4.6.4.2 Output data

The output data, including NRCellCU IOC, NRCellDU IOC, GNBDUFunction IOC, GNBCUCPFunction IOC, GNBCUUPFunction IOC and RRMPolicyRatio IOC with RRMPolicy abstract class (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.541 [4]), are needed to enable NSSI resource optimization rApp to re-configure the resources via O1 and O2 interfaces.

### 4.6.5 O1 usage example

An example of two NSSIs, where NSSI#1 groups E2 nodes (i.e., O-DU, O-CU-CP, and O-CU-UP), and NSSI#2 groups 5GC NFs is shown in figure 4.6.5-1. It also shows that two network slices, identified by S-NSSAI#1 supporting URLLC, and S-NSSAI#2 supporting eMBB. The goal of this use case is to optimize the resources associated with RAN network slices.

Figure 4.6.5-1: NSSI resource optimization example

NSSI resources optimization rApp runs model inference with input measurement data collected from E2 nodes for S-NSSAI#1 and S-NSSAI#2, and detects a traffic pattern for O-DU serving an area with high density of business and residential users at the time on a given day. An example of PRB resource allocation for S-NSSAI#1 and S-NSSAI#2 at the O-DU is shown in figure 4.6.5-2.

- At 15:00, the dedicated resources and prioritized resources for S-NSSAI#1 were increased to 20% and 50% respectively for as more cars demand more URLLC services at the start of rush hours.
- At 17:00, the dedicated resources, prioritized resources, and shared resources for S-NSSAI#1 were further increased as the rush hours traffic getting worse.
- At 19:00, the dedicated resources, prioritized resources, and shared resources for S-NSSAI#2 were increased to 20%, 60%, and 75% respectively as more residential users demand more eMBB services for home video streaming.
- At 20:00, the dedicated resources, prioritized resources, and shared resources for S-NSSAI#1 were decreased as the rush hours traffic coming to end.
- At 21:00, the dedicated resources, prioritized resources, and shared resources for S-NSSAI#2 were further increased as the demand for eMBB services increased.
- At 22:00, the dedicated resources, prioritized resources, and shared resources for S-NSSAI#1were decreased as the demand for URLLC services further reduced.
- At 24:00, the dedicated resources, prioritized resources, and shared resources for S-NSSAI#2 were decreased to 10%, 25%, and 60% respectively as the demand for eMBB services further reduced.
Figure 4.6.5-2: Example of network slice resource allocations for O-DU

## 4.7 Massive MIMO optimization

Massive MIMO optimization is one of the top priority use cases in O-RAN. Several massive MIMO sub-features have been proposed and studied during the massive MIMO pre-normative study, which is documented in the O-RAN.WG1.MMIMO-USE-CASES-TR-v01.00 [i.3], including the potential data requirements for each of the sub-use cases. The following sub-clauses provide the background, objectives, solutions, deployment options, and identified WG2 requirements for massive MIMO sub-features

### 4.7.1 Massive MIMO Grid-of-Beams Beamforming (GoB BF) optimization

#### 4.7.1.1 Background and goal of the use case

Massive MIMO (mMIMO) is among the key methods to increase performance and QoS in 5G networks. Capacity enhancement is obtained by means of beamforming of the transmitted signals, and by spatially multiplexing data streams. Beamforming can increase the received signal power and simultaneously decrease the interference generated for other users, hence resulting in higher SINR and higher user throughputs. Grid-of-Beams (GoB) with the corresponding beam sweeping has been introduced to allow beamforming of the control channels used during initial access as well as for data transmission and reception, mainly for high frequency (but can be used also for the sub-6 GHz band) MIMO operation. The physical properties of the antenna array and its possible configurations characterize the span of the beams, namely the horizontal and vertical aperture in which beamforming is supported, and therefore the coverage area and the shape of the cell. mMIMO can be deployed in 5G macrocell clusters as well as in heterogeneous networks, where macrocells and small cells co-exist and complement each other for better aggregated capacity and coverage. In order to obtain optimal beamforming and cell resources (Tx power, PRB) configuration, one will have to look at a multi-cell environment instead of a single cell. Moreover, different vendors can have different implementations in terms of the number of beams, the horizontal/vertical beam widths, azimuth and elevation range, to achieve the desired coverage. In a multi-node/multi-vendor scenario, centralized monitoring and control is required to offer optimal coverage, capacity and mobility performance as well as control over electromagnetic emissions in order to comply with regulatory requirements.

The problem associated with traditional mMIMO BF is that its performance is highly dependent on the choice of the Beam Forming (BF) pattern. Manual configuration is usually based on the empirical knowledge and manual test results of the domain expert(s) and is performed in a semi-static way. That is, (near-)real time contextual, per-site information (such as cell geometry change, user/traffic distribution, mobility patterns, seasonalities etc.) is taken into account in a suboptimal and non-real-time way. This can cause one or more of the following problems:

- High inter-cell interference.
- Unbalanced traffic between neighboring cells.
- Low performance at the cell edges or throughout the cell.
- Poor handover performance.
This solution proposes a framework that allows the operator to flexibly configure the mMIMO BF parameters in a cell or in a cluster of cells by means of policies and configuration assisted by Machine Learning (ML) techniques. The configuration optimization relies on contextual information and patterns such as the user distribution, traffic demand distribution, cell geometries, and mobility.

#### 4.7.1.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case

- SMO & Non-RT RIC Framework (FW):
- Collect the necessary configurations, performance indicators, and measurement reports from the E2 nodes (O-DU), triggered by Non-RT RIC FW if required.
- Transfer collected data towards rApp.
- Provide optimized mMIMO GoB parameters via O1 (to O-DU) or open FH M-plane (to O-RU) interface.
- Optional: Retrieve necessary enrichment information (UE location related information, e.g., GPS coordinates) for the purpose of i) training relevant rApps and ii) execution of relevant rApps. NOTE: Exposure of enrichment information to rApps is not defined in the present document.
- Monitor the performance of the respective cells; when the optimization objective fails, initiate fallback procedure and/or trigger the rApp model retraining and re-optimization.
- Execute the inference/control loop periodically or event-triggered.
- Optional: The ML model training can be done by the Non-RT RIC FW.
- rApps:
- Retrieve the necessary configurations, performance indicators, and measurement reports from the E2 nodes and necessary enrichment information via the SMO, for the purpose of training and execution of relevant AI/ML models.
- Infer an optimized GoB BF configuration.
- E2 nodes & O-RU:
- Collect and provide necessary measurements and KPIs to the SMO (see Required data clause).
- Apply mMIMO GoB configuration received from the SMO.
NOTE: Both aggregated and disaggregated gNB architecture are supported.

#### 4.7.1.3 Solutions

The context of the creation and deployment of mMIMO GoB BF optimization applications is captured in table 4.7.1.3-1.

Table 4.7.1.3-1: Creation and deployment of mMIMO GoB BF optimization applications

| Use Case Stage | Evolution / Specification | <<Uses>> Related use |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Goal | Optimized beamforming configuration with the Grid-of-Beams method. |  |
| Actors and Roles | SMO, Non-RT RIC, E2 nodes, O-RU |  |
| Assumptions | All relevant functions and components are instantiated.  O1 and OFH-MP interface connectivity is established. |  |
| Pre-conditions | Near-RT RIC and Non-RT RIC are instantiated. O1 interface is established between SMO and Near-RT RIC and E2 nodes, OFH-MP is established between O-DU(s) and O-RU(s). |  |
| Begins when | GoB BF optimization rApp with initial ML model is deployed. |  |
| Step 1 (M) | SMO/Non-RT RIC FW collects the necessary configurations, performance indicators, and measurement reports from E2 nodes (O-DU). |  |
| Step 2 (O) | SMO/Non-RT RIC FW collects input data from external apps. |  |
| Step 3-6 (M) | Collected data is transferred to rApp from the SMO/Non-RT RIC FW and rApp trains the necessary ML model(s). |  |
| Step 7-10 (M) | A new optimization trigger is applied or re-optimization of the GoB BF is necessary due to low performance. ML model assisted rApp infers optimized GoB BF configuration and transfers it to the SMO/Non-RT RIC. |  |
| Step 11-13 (M) | SMO/Non-RT RIC FW applies the optimized GoB BF configuration via O1 or via O1 and OFH-MP. |  |
| Step 14-20 (O) | SMO/Non-RT RIC FW continuously monitors GoB BF performance in repsective cells. Optionally, it initiates fallback in case performance is unsatisfactory and requests ML model retraining/update. Then, rApp retrains/updates the respective ML model(s). |  |
| Ends when | On operator request of rApp is disabled. |  |
| Exceptions | None identified. |  |
| Post Conditions | GoB BF configuration is active. |  |
| Traceability | REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN1, REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN5, REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN6, REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN8, REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN9 |  |

The flow diagram of GoB BF optimization is given in figure 4.7.1.3-1.

#### 4.7.1.4 Required data

The specification of the data communicated over O1 is outside the scope of WG2.  There are no data that are relevant for the A1 interface.

### 4.7.2 Massive MIMO Non-GoB Beamforming (Non-GoB BF) optimization

This use case provides the background and motivation for the O-RAN architecture to support Non-Grid of Beams beamforming optimization. Non-RT RIC could be used to train AI/ML models for Non-GoB BF selection xApps, which intelligently recommend best Non-GoB BF modes to a O-gNB or O-DU.

Note that non-AI/ML based solutions for Non-GoB BF optimization is not precluded. The AI/ML model training, deployment, and inference described below are not applicable to non-AI/ML based solutions.

#### 4.7.2.1 Background and goal of the use case

Non-GoB BF approaches are an important class of beamforming algorithms for 5G massive MIMO deployments, especially for implementations in sub-6 GHz frequency bands. For example, beam weights can be computed at the O-gNB or O-DU based on channel measurements of Sounding Reference Signals (SRS) without predefined beam sets, assuming uplink and downlink correspondence.

Noted that Non-GoB BF modes are not standardized, instead they are vendor-specific proprietary algorithms. Multiple Non-GoB BF modes can be implemented, as some modes perform better than others under particular wireless conditions. Non-GoB BF modes can differ in the following aspects:

- MIMO modes (i.e., SU-MIMO or MU-MIMO)
- Channel estimation algorithms
- Beam weight calculation approaches (e.g., Matched Filter (MF), Zero-Forcing (ZF), eigen-beamforming, etc.)
- Time and frequency granularity of beamforming, etc.
To select the best Non-GoB BF modes, the SMO/Non-RT RIC and the Near-RT RIC are not required to understand the details of a specific Non-GoB BF modes, e.g., how the beamforming weights are computed under a mode. They only need to know how many Non-GoB BF modes are supported in the O-DU and the performance of each mode.

The goal of this use case is therefore to provide an intelligent control over multiple supported Non-GoB BF modes in order to recommend a preferred mode to a BS as a function of wireless conditions, such as channel quality, UE location and mobility, interference condition, PHY layer configuration, etc.

#### 4.7.2.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case

- SMO/Non-RT RIC:
- Retrieve the number of supported Non-GoB BF modes in O-DU via the O1 interface.
- Retrieve performance measurement data and UE context information (e.g., SRS periodicity) from O-DU via the O1 interface, for each Non-GoB BF mode.
- Collect enrichment information from external sources such as application servers.
- Associate enrichment information with collected measurements and configurations.
- Perform model training.
- Perform model deployment.
- Perform model performance monitoring and model re-training.
- Send enrichment information to the Near-RT RIC for inference via the A1 interface.
Note that the model can be trained in the Non-RT RIC framework or in the Non-GoB BF optimization rApp.

- Near-RT RIC:
- Receive enrichment information via the A1 interface.
- Support AI/ML model deployment from the SMO/Non-RT RIC.
- Receive performance measurement data and UE context information (e.g., SRS periodicity) from O-DU via the E2 interface.
- Associate enrichment information with collected measurements and configurations.
- Select Non-GoB modes, e.g., by performing model inference.
- Send Non-GoB BF control/policy message to O-DU via the E2 interface.
Note that the requirements of Near-RT RIC are under the scope of WG3.

- O-DU:
- Send the number of supported Non-GoB BF modes to SMO/Non-RT RIC via the O1 interface.
- Send measurement data and UE context information (e.g., SRS periodicity) to SMO/Non-RT RIC via the O1 interface.
- Send measurement data and UE context information (e.g., SRS periodicity) to the Near-RT RIC via the E2 interface.
- Support Non-GoB control/policy message received from the Near-RT RIC via the E2 interface.
Note that the requirements of O1 interface for O-DU are under the scope of WG5.

#### 4.7.2.3 Solutions

##### 4.7.2.3.1 AI/ML-assisted Non-GoB BF mode selection

Note that data collection over E2 interface and E2 control/policy procedures shown in table 4.7.2.3.1-2 and in figure 4.7.2.3.1-2 are under the scope of WG3. Note that external interface between the Non-RT RIC and the external sources (e.g., application servers) is not specified by O-RAN.

The context of the AI/ML-assisted Non-GoB BF mode selection – model training, deployment, and update is captured in table 4.7.2.3.1-1.

| Use Case Stage | Evolution / Specification | <<Uses>> Related use |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Goal | To train an AI/ML model to select the best Non-GoB BF modes given wireless conditions and per-UE configurations. |  |
| Actors and Roles | SMO, Non-RT RIC, Near-RT RIC, O-DU, external sources, e.g., application server |  |
| Assumptions | All relevant functions and components are instantiated. |  |
| Pre-conditions | O1 interface is established between SMO and O-DU to enable SMO/Non-RT RIC to obtain the number of supported Non-GoB BF modes and to collect performance measurement data and associated per-UE configuration. A1 interface is established between Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC to enable enrichment information transfer. O-DU supports Non-GoB BF. |  |
| Begins when | Operator specified trigger condition or event is satisfied. |  |
| Step 1 (M) | SMO requests the number of supported Non-GoB BF modes in O-DU via the O1 interface. |  |
| Step 2 (M) | SMO collects the number of supported Non-GoB BF modes in O-DU via the O1 interface. |  |
| Step 3 (M) | Non-RT RIC retrieves collected information. |  |
| Step 4 (M) | For each Non-GoB BF mode, SMO requests performance measurement data and associated UE context information (e.g., SRS periodicity) from O-DU for model training via the O1 interface. |  |
| Step 5 (M) | SMO collects required performance measurement data and UE context information (e.g., SRS periodicity) from O-DU via the O1 interface. |  |
| Step 6 (O) | SMO collects enrichment information (e.g., UE mobility and location info) from external sources, e.g., application server. |  |
| Step 7 (O) | Non-RT RIC retrieves collected data and enrichment information. |  |
| Step 8 (O) | For each Non-GoB BF mode, Non-RT RIC associates received enrichment information with measurement data and UE context information. |  |
| Step 9 (M) | Non-RT RIC performs model training. |  |
| Step 10 (M) | Non-RT RIC requests to deploy the trained AI/ML model. |  |
| Step 11 (M) | SMO/Non-RT RIC deploys trained model to the Near-RT RIC via O1 or O2 interface. |  |
| Step 12 (M) | SMO requests performance measurement data, including the active Non-GoB BF mode index, from O-DU for performance monitoring via the O1 interface. |  |
| Step 13 (M) | SMO collects performance measurement data, including the active Non-GoB BF mode index, from O-DU for performance monitoring via the O1 interface. |  |
| Step 14 (O) | SMO collects enrichment information (e.g., UE mobility and location info) from external sources, e.g., application server. |  |
| Step 15 (O) | Non-RT RIC retrieves collected performance monitoring data and enrichment information. |  |
| Step 16 (M) | Non-RT RIC evaluates the performance of deployed AI/ML model. |  |
| Step 17 (M) | Non-RT RIC re-trains the model. |  |
| Step 18 (M) | Non-RT RIC requests to deploy the updated AI/ML model. |  |
| Step 19 (M) | SMO/Non-RT RIC updates model in the Near-RT RIC via O1 or O2 interface. |  |
| Ends when | Operator specified trigger condition or event is satisfied. |  |
| Exceptions | None identified. |  |
| Post Conditions | Near-RT RIC executes the deployed model for AI/ML-assisted Non-GoB BF. |  |
| Traceability | REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN1, REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN4, REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN5, REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN9, REQ-A1-FUN2 |  |

- The flow diagram of the AI/ML-assisted Non-GoB BF mode selection - model training, deployment, and performance monitoring is given in figure 4.7.2.3.1-1.
The context of the AI/ML-assisted Non-GoB BF mode selection – model inference is captured in table 4.7.2.3.1-2.

| Use Case Stage | Evolution / Specification | <<Uses>> Related use |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Goal | To generate Non-GoB control/policy message. |  |
| Actors and Roles | SMO, Non-RT RIC, Near-RT RIC, O-DU, external sources, e.g., application server |  |
| Assumptions | All relevant functions and components are instantiated. |  |
| Pre-conditions | A1 interface is established between Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC to enable enrichment information transfer. E2 interface is established between Near-RT RIC and O-DU to enable Non-GoB BF mode selection via E2 control/policy message O-DU supports Non-GoB BF. |  |
| Begins when | Operator specified trigger condition or event is satisfied. |  |
| Step 1 (O) | The Near-RT RIC queries available EI type identifiers. |  |
| Step 2 (O) | The Non-RT RIC responds an array of identifiers of all available EI types. |  |
| Step 3 (O) | The Near-RT RIC queries the EI type to support Non-GoB BF inference (e.g., UE mobility/location info). |  |
| Step 4 (O) | The Non-RT RIC responds detailed information related to the queried EI type. |  |
| Step 5 (O) | The Near-RT RIC creates an EI job. |  |
| Step 6 (O) | The Non-RT RIC responds to the EI job creation request. |  |
| Step 7 (O) | SMO collects enrichment information (e.g., UE mobility/location info) from external sources, e.g., application server. |  |
| Step 8 (O) | Non-RT RIC retrieves collected enrichment information. |  |
| Step 9 (O) | Non-RT RIC delivers collected enrichment information as EI job results to the Near-RT RIC via the A1 interface. |  |
| Step 9 (M) | Near-RT RIC requests measurement data and UE context information (e.g., SRS periodicity) from O-DU via the E2 interface. |  |
| Step 9 (M) | Near-RT RIC collects measurement data and UE context information (e.g., SRS periodicity) from O-DU via the E2 interface. |  |
| Step 9 (M) | Near-RT RIC associates received enrichment information with collected measurement data and UE context information. |  |
| Step 9 (M) | Near-RT RIC selects the best Non-GoB BF mode, e.g., by performing model inference. |  |
| Step 9 (M) | Near-RT RIC generates Non-GoB control/policy message based on inferred Non-GoB BF mode selection. |  |
| Step 9 (M) | Near-RT RIC sends Non-GoB control/policy message to O-DU via the E2 interface. |  |
| Ends when | Operator specified trigger condition or event is satisfied. |  |
| Exceptions | None identified. |  |
| Post Conditions | Non-RT RIC monitors the performance of AI/ML-assisted Non-GoB BF mode selection in the Near-RT RIC. |  |
| Traceability | REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN9, REQ-A1-FUN3 |  |

#### 4.7.2.4 Required data

The specification of the data communicated over O1 is outside the scope of WG2.

The following enrichment information from external sources (e.g., application server) are used in model training and inference:

- UE location
- UE mobility
- Time granularity of the enrichment information reports (e.g., integer multiple of a second)
Note that for model inference, above EI is sent from Non-RT RIC to Near-RT RIC via the A1 interface.

#### 4.7.2.5 A1 enrichment information example

In training phase, the retrieved enrichment information (e.g., UE mobility and location information) needs to be associated with collected per-UE L1/L2 measurement reporting (e.g., L1-RSRP and/or L1-SINR, etc.) and UE context information (e.g., UE-specific SRS periodicity) by the Non-RT RIC. In the inference phase, such data association is performed by the Near-RT RIC. Therefore, the EI delivered over the A1 interface should contain necessary UE identification to facilitate the data association at the Near-RT RIC. The Near-RT RIC shall be able to recognize the UE identification and be able to map it to the UE identification used over the E2 interface.

For example, the A1 enrichment information contains the following information elements:

- UE identifier
- Position of the UE
- Height of the UE
- Time stamp when the position and height was recorded

### 4.7.3 MIMO optimization via MIMO DL Tx power optimization, MU-MIMO pairing, and MIMO mode selection

This use case will provide the objective, solutions, and data requirements related to MIMO optimization based on three key sub-features involving downlink transmit power, MIMO pairing enhancement (user separability), and user MIMO mode selection (MU-MIMO or SU-MIMO) that are described in detail in the O-RAN.WG1.MMIMO-USE-CASES-TR-v01.00 [i.3]. The use-case leverages Non-RT RIC to train and host the relevant models and applications that rely on O1 interface services to intelligently optimize MIMO capacity and user experience.

#### 4.7.3.1 Background and goal of the use case

##### 4.7.3.1.1 MIMO downlink transmit power optimization

For general downlink precoding, the downlink transmit power is usually evenly distributed across the UEs.  However, depending on the UE separability and path loss deltas, this can result in good cell capacity at the expense of individual UE quality.  This can be due to several issues such as cell edge UEs having general downlink SINR issues (even without MU-MIMO), poor UE separability between cell edge UEs, and poor uplink SINR resulting in degraded SRS which are a few example issues. The result of these issues can be manifested by observations of very poor individual UE SINRs (either downlink, uplink, or both) when running in a MU-MIMO mode. Therefore, although the capacity of the cell has been significantly increased, certain customer experiences can become unacceptable in this MU-MIMO mode.

The solution to the problem described above is to simply provide observations of UE performance in the form of periodic histograms of UE channel quality as well as the overall cell capacity in order to compute an optimal solution via AI/ML with control of the downlink minimum required SINR threshold to achieve a minimal UE quality requirement that is set by the operator. The minimum required SINR is a threshold recommendation and thus doesn’t require real time AI/ML adjustment of transmit power directly but rather leaves this to the scheduler to adjust and optimize consistent with its numerous other priorities and requirements.

The value of this observability and adjustability allows the operator to optimize the trade-off between cell capacity and individual user/customer quality which is essential to provide the best customer experience. The trade-off, for example, can reduce a very high cell centre data rate (which would likely be unnoticeable for the user) to allow more power to be allocated to the cell edge user (who is noticing low tput and large latencies) to improve the cell edge data rate situation.

##### 4.7.3.1.2 MU-MIMO pairing enhancement (user separability)

Existing channel orthogonality between multiple users is critical to create user separability and allow for the opportunity to share radio frequency resources simultaneously. Failing this, residual interference will be too high to maintain adequate post pairing radio link signal quality levels required to sustain MU-MIMO mode assignments. With mobility there is an added demand to adjust beamforming weight assignments to not only maintain signal power levels at the user end (beam quality), but also to continuously limit the inter user interference experienced between users assigned with the same radio resource allocations. If these challenges are left unaddressed, a 5G massive MIMO deployment will fail to utilize the full capability of large antenna arrays powered by transceivers designed to transmit data channel signals towards a spatially confined direction. Further, the network will also fail to realize potential multiplexing gains as fewer radio resource blocks are shared between users within the same cell, reducing spectral efficiency.

Another important aspect is the need to efficiently identify users with low demand for radio resources - sources of bursty traffic. An intelligent assessment of how best such users can be effectively paired, if at all, with other users, needs to be pre-determined by the RIC. In summary, this use case suggests various measurement objects that are recommended as input into the AI/ML analytics Apps to optimally determine the outputs required to optimize the MU-MIMO feature operation.

The AI/ML assisted modelling and training output, along with the Non-RT RIC based enhancement/inference, will strive to deliver end goal solution selections and system configuration options that upon adoption within the respective domains where they reside, realize an optimization framework that maximizes the potential of a MU-MIMO feature. Capacity augmentation will be realized by successfully assigning MU-MIMO layers to a greater number of users simultaneously, more often, and more uniformly across the serving area of each gNB.

##### 4.7.3.1.3 MIMO mode selection optimization (MU-MIMO vs SU-MIMO selection)

A successful MU-MIMO operation involves the realization of as many orthogonal radio frequency channel links between multiple spatially separated users as possibly as supported by the implementation software at the digital domain. Key to such realization is the successful beamforming weight determination that enables not only the phase addition of multipath signals at the user receiver, but also the choice of precoding algorithms which limit the residual interference between the paired users. It can make sense for the scheduler to prioritize the assignment of radio resources to a MU-MIMO mode of operation during periods of congestion or when high latency requiring applications are supported (to free up other resources that can be assigned sooner). However, doing so at the expense of undesirably lower spectral efficiency on these assigned radio resources will reduce overall sector throughput levels and create poor user experience. It is important to find a means through the AI/ML agent to distinguish users and identify sectors where optimal operation means a greater assignment of SU-MIMO modes independently to users, especially those requiring higher throughput, using devices that are capable of supporting higher layer SU-MIMO count, and operating in an environment that sustains a greater channel rank.

With increased loading massive MIMO systems will incur rising levels of interference on the uplink from connected users and on the downlink from the gNB. In addition to normal SINR measurements, the diagnosis of interference from all spatial directions uniformly (white spatial noise) versus specific directions (spatially correlated noise) will be of interest and will require MIMO modes (SU-MIMO vs MU-MIMO) to be properly selected for assignment on a user basis.  Such implementation will optimize the per user and per cell throughputs, taking into consideration channel orthogonality conditions rank realizable, and per user effective bandwidth requirement.

#### 4.7.3.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case

- SMO/Non-RT RIC:
- Retrieve relevant performance measurement data and RAN configurations from O-DU via the O1 interface.
- Perform model training and model deployment based on identified measurement data.
- Perform model performance monitoring and model re-training as required.
- Provide RAN configuration recommendations based on identified parameters to O-DU over O1 interface.
- Allow rApps to access the measurement data and to provide configuration recommendations via relevant R1 interface services.
- O-DU:
- Send measurement data and RAN configurations to SMO/Non-RT RIC via the O1 interface.
- Support implementation of MIMO configuration parameters received from the SMO/Non-RT RIC via the O1 interface.

#### 4.7.3.3 Solutions

##### 4.7.3.3.1 MIMO optimization via DL SINR threshold, MU-MIMO pairing, and MIMO mode selection

The context of the MIMO optimization via DL Tx power, pairing enhancement, and mode selection is captured in table 4.7.3.3.1-1.

| Use Case Stage | Evolution / Specification | <<Uses>> Related use |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Goal | To train and deploy AI/ML models for MIMO optimization that given wireless conditions and RAN configuration information as input will generate configuration recommendations for DL SINR threshold, MU-MIMO user pairing, and MIMO mode selection. |  |
| Actors and Roles | SMO, Non-RT RIC, O-DU |  |
| Assumptions | All relevant functions and components are instantiated.  O1 interface connectivity is established. |  |
| Pre-conditions | O1 interface is established between SMO and O-DU to enable SMO/Non-RT RIC to collect performance measurement data and associated RAN configurations. O-DU supports the implementation of identified configuration parameters when configuration recommendation is received via O1 interface. |  |
| Begins when | Operator specified trigger condition or event is satisfied. |  |
| Step 1 (M) | SMO requests performance measurement data and associated RAN configurations from O-DU for model training via the O1 interface. |  |
| Step 2 (M) | SMO collects required performance measurement data and RAN configurations from O-DU via the O1 interface. |  |
| Step 3 (M) | Non-RT RIC FW retrieves collected information. |  |
| Step 4 (O) | Non-RT RIC performs model training/update. |  |
| Step 5 (O) | Non-RT RIC deploys trained model for inference. |  |
| Step 6 (M) | SMO requests performance measurement data from O-DU for performance monitoring via the O1 interface for rApp execution and optionally model inference. |  |
| Step 7 (M) | SMO collects performance measurement data from O-DU for performance monitoring via the O1 interface for rApp execution and optionally model inference. |  |
| Step 8 (M) | Non-RT RIC FW retrieves the collected data. |  |
| Step 9 (M) | rApp accesses the collected data via R1 interface services. |  |
| Step 10 (M) | rApp performance monitoring and evaluation and optional model inference. |  |
| Step 11 (M) | rApp generates configuration recommendation. |  |
| Step 12 (M) | Non-RT RIC FW retrieves the configuration recommendation via R1 interface services. |  |
| Step 13 (M) | Non-RT RIC provides configuration output to SMO O1 termination. |  |
| Step 14 (M) | SMO communicates MIMO configuration recommednation to O-DU via O1 interface. |  |
| Ends when | Operator specified trigger condition or event is satisfied. |  |
| Exceptions | None identified. |  |
| Post Conditions | O-DU implements the configuration recommendations provided by MIMO optimization App. |  |
| Traceability | REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN1, REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN2, REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN5, REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN8 REQ-R1-FUN9 |  |

The call flow for MIMO optimization use case is given in figure 4.7.3.3.1-1.

#### 4.7.3.4 Required data

The specification of the data communicated over O1 is outside the scope of WG2.

There are no data that are relevant for the A1 interface.

### 4.7.4 AI/ML-based initial access (SS Burst Set) configuration optimization

#### 4.7.4.1 Background and goal of the use case

- Increased overhead i.e., degraded utilization of time-frequency resources affecting Spectral Efficiency (SE).
- Increased interferences among the cells.
- Increased power consumptions in both network and UEs leading increased network CAPEX and reduced UE battery life respectively.
In this context, this sub-use case proposes an AI/ML assisted optimization framework wherein AI/ML agent/engine running at Non-RT RIC can infer optimal SSB set configuration (i.e., number of SS blocks, SS beam directions and SS burst periodicity) based on Configuration (CM) parameters, Performance Measurements (PM), Key Performance Indicators (KPI), and measurement report traces obtained from the E2 nodes (O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU, O-eNB) and O-RU. At high-level, the goal of the optimization problem is to minimize SS signal transmissions overhead i.e., determine the minimum number of SSB beams required, their directions and periodicity subject to KPI (integrity, mobility, etc.) targets.

The overall scheme can be summarized as follows. Based on the history/trace/distribution of UE-specific beams (e.g., P2 beams), the AI/ML engine determines the minimum number of SSB beams, their directions and the maximum periodicity of the SS burst required to achieve KPI targets as per history/trace/distribution of UE-specific beams. Furthermore, in order to handle the lower probability occurrences in the statistical models e.g., UEs appearing in a completely new direction that has not been considered in the training data, the AI/ML engine (if required) updates the optimal set (e.g., adds beam directions that compliments the optimal directions, updates the SS burst periodicity etc.). Finally, the AI/ML engine shares the optimized SSB set configuration with gNB.

#### 4.7.4.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case

- SMO & Non-RT RIC framework:
- Collect the necessary Configuration (CM) parameters, Performance Measurements (PM), Key Performance Indicators (KPI), and measurement report traces from the E2 nodes (O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU, O-eNB) and O-RU.
- Allow the rApp to receive the CMs, PMs, KPIs measurement data (collected via O1) to perform the AI/ML model training and provide inference on the SSB set configuration parameters (number of SS blocks, SS beam directions and SS burst periodicity).
- Write/update the optimized SSB set configuration via O1 (to O-DU) interface.
- rApps:
- Retrieve the necessary Configuration (CM) parameters, Performance Measurements (PM), Key Performance Indicators (KPI), and measurement report traces pertaining to the E2 nodes and O-RU from the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework via R1 for the purpose of optimizing SSB set configuration.
- Train AI/ML model to optimize the SSB set configurations.
- Modify/update the SSB set configurations, optimized by the inference engine of the rApp, and write the configuration output to the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework via R1.
- Monitor the performance of the respective cells. Upon KPI degradation, initiate rollback to the previous version of the AI/ML model, if any, and/or trigger the AI/ML model retraining.
- Execute the inference/control loop periodically or on an event-triggered based.
- E2 nodes and O-RU:
- Report the desired performance measurements and KPIs, configuration parameters and CM changes, trace reports and measurements to the SMO via O1.
- Receive the optimized SSB set configurations from the SMO via O1 and apply the configuration on the O-DU which may further exercise the configuration update on the O-RU.
NOTE: Both aggregated and disaggregated gNB architectures are supported.

#### 4.7.4.3 Solutions

The context of the creation and deployment of mMIMO SSB set optimization applications is captured in table 4.7.4.3-1.

Table 4.7.4.3-1: Creation and deployment of mMIMO SSB set optimization applications

| Use Case Stage | Evolution / Specification | <<Uses>> Related use |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Goal | SSB set optimization |  |
| Actors and Roles | SMO/Non-RT RIC framework, SS burst set optimization rApp, E2 nodes, O-RU |  |
| Assumptions | All relevant functions and components are instantiated.  O1 interface connectivity is established. |  |
| Pre-conditions | SMO/Non-RT RIC framework is instantiated. O1 interface is established between SMO and E2 nodes. |  |
| Begins when | SSB optimization rApp with initial ML model is deployed. |  |
| Step 1-3(M) | SMO/Non-RT RIC framework collects the necessary configurations, performance indicators, and measurement reports from E2 nodes. |  |
| Step 4-5 (M) | rApp retrieves the necessary configurations, performance indicators, and measurement data from SMO/Non-RT RIC framework via R1 and trains AI/ML model for the purpose of optimizing SSB set configuration. |  |
| Step 6 (M) | SMO/Non-RT RIC framework collects observation data from E2 nodes. |  |
| Step 7-9 (M) | rApp retrieves the observation data from SMO/Non-RT RIC framework via R1, infers SSB set configuration, and shares the configuration to SMO/Non-RT RIC framework. |  |
| Step 10-11 (M) | SMO/Non-RT RIC framework writes/updates SSB set configuration at E2 nodes. |  |
| Step 12-18(M) | rApp continuously monitors KPIs in respective cells. In case of unsatisfactory performance, it initiates fallback and retrains/updates the respective AI/ML model(s). |  |
| Ends when | On operator request for rApp to be disabled. |  |
| Exceptions | None identified. |  |
| Post Conditions | SSB set configuration is active. |  |
| Traceability | REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN1, REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN2, REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN5, REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN6 |  |

The flow diagram of SSB set optimization is given in figure 4.7.4.3-1.

#### 4.7.4.4 Required data

##### 4.7.4.4.1 Input data

- Supported SSB configurations per cell (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [20], clause 6.3.2 and in 3GPP TS 28.541 [4], clause 4.3.5).
- Key Performance Indicator (KPIs) such as integrity and cell/beam mobility KPIs, etc., for service level assurance (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5] and in 3GPP TS 28.554 [17]).
- CSI-RS beam configuration and CSI-RS beam-specific UE measurement reporting from tracing of RRC messages (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [20], clause 5.5.5.2).
- PMs, such as the distribution of SS-RSRP, SS-RSRQ across of UEs measured per cell, number of RRC connected UEs (mean, max) measured per cell, intra-NRCell SSB beam switch measurement and received random access preambles on a per SSB/per cell basis (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clauses 5.1.1.22, 5.1.1.31, 5.1.1.4, 5.1.1.20 and 5.1.1.21).
- Radio Link Failure (RLF) tracing across UEs across SSBs per cell (as specified in 3GPP TS 37.320 [19], clause 5.4.1.2, 3GPP TS 32.422 [18], clause 4.3 and in 3GPP TS 38.331 [20], clause 5.3.10).
- DL/UL throughput per cell (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.1.3).

##### 4.7.4.4.2 Output data

- Inferred SSB set (number of SS blocks, SS beam directions and SS burst periodicity) configuration per cell (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.541 [4], clauses 4.3.39 and 4.3.40).

## 4.8 Network energy saving

This clause contains the set of energy saving use cases.

### 4.8.1 Carrier and cell switch off/on

#### 4.8.1.1 Background and goal of the use case

Mobile networks often utilize multiple frequency layers (carriers) to cover the same service area. At low load, i.e., when the expected traffic volume is lower than a fixed threshold, ES can be achieved by switching off one or more carriers or entire cells without impairing the user experience. UEs previously served by the carrier or cell will be offloaded by the E2 node(s) to a new target carrier or cell prior to the switch off.

However, the switch off/on decisions are not a trivial task. There are conflicting targets between system performance and energy savings. Other carriers / cells will have to serve the additional traffic and traffic is changing over time. E2 node(s) and O-RU(s) support several techniques effecting energy consumption which might also be load dependent. While energy savings for the switched off carrier/cell is maximized, the overall energy consumption of the network might even increase.

Carrier and cell switch off/on control by the Non-RT or Near-RT RIC can consider overall network energy efficiency instead of local optimization. The switch off/on decision can optionally be made by an AI/ML model within the inference host, deployed at the Non-RT RIC to further improve decision making. Among others, the AI/ML models' functionality can include prediction of future traffic, user mobility, and resource usage and can also predict expected energy efficiency enhancements, resource usage, and network performance for different ES optimization states. Also, with addition of per-UE geographical location information such as trace record for immediate MDT measurement (as specified in 3GPP TS 32.423 [11], clause 4.34.1) and trace record for UE location information (as specified in 3GPP TS 32.423 [11], clause 4.34.2) as input data, the increased accuracy for UE location/trajectory prediction could be expected for more efficient solution so that it could prevent switched off cell(s) from being switched on even though meaningful number of UEs generating/receiving traffic do not exist  in that cell(s). In that sense these collections could be conditionally activated during some cells being switched off and be deactivated once all cells switched on in terms of UE energy saving. Possible differences among collected types of geographical location information such as between MDT and LMF are expected to be absorbed and exposed to rApp(s) based on R1 data type definition.

Before switching off/on carrier(s) or cell(s), there is a possibility the E2 node(s) and O-RU(s) of performing some preparation actions for off switching (e.g. check ongoing emergency calls and warning messages, to enable, disable, modify carrier aggregation and/or dual connectivity, to trigger HO traffic and UEs from cells/carriers to other cells or carriers, informing neighbour nodes via X2/Xn interface, etc.) as well as for on switching (e.g., cell probing, informing neighbour nodes via X2/Xn interface, etc.).This solution proposes a framework that allows the operator to flexibly configure carrier and cell switch off/on parameters in a cell or in a cluster of cells through O1 configuration formulated by rApp towards E2 node(s) and O-RU(s)  or A1 policies  formulated by rApp towards Near-RT RIC  through SMO/Non-RT RIC framework assisted by machine learning (ML) techniques.

#### 4.8.1.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case

- SMO/Non-RT RIC framework function:
Collect the configurations, performance indicators and measurement reports (e.g., cell load related information and traffic information, EE/EC measurement reports) from E2 node(s) and trace records (e.g., per-UE measurement metrics and location information) through O1 Interface, for the purpose of decision making, optionally using training and inference of AI/ML models that assist such EE/ES functions. It is assumed that configurations, performance indicators and measurement reports collected from the O-DU contain the related information for the corresponding O-RU(s).

Transfer collected data towards rApp.

Signal updated configurations for EE/ES optimization towards E2 node(s) (O-CU) through O1 Interface.

(Optionally) Retrain, update, configure EE/ES AI/ML models in Non-RT RIC.

Provide A1 policies to Near-RT RIC via A1 interface based on the request from energy saving rApp in the case of A1 policy-based solution.

- Send enrichment information to the Near-RT RIC for calculation of coverage overlap via the A1 interface in the case of A1 policy-based solution..n the case of A1 policy-based solution.
- rApps:
- Energy saving rApp
Collect the necessary configurations, performance indicators, and measurement reports from SMO/Non-RT RIC framework, for the purpose of training and execution of relevant AI/ML models.

- (Optionally) Retrain, update, configure EE/ES AI/ML model.
Infer an optimized O1 configuration for EE/ES based on the data collected using R1 interface.

Infer an optimized A1 policy for EE/ES based on the data collected using R1 interface in the case of A1 policy-based solution.

- EI producer rApp ( For A1-EI solution)
- Support to produce enrichment information data requested by Near-RT RIC to ascertain overlapping carriers/cells and the coverage of those carriers/cells (e.g., geo location information of carriers/cells , coverage samples mapped geo location, etc.)
- Send enrichment information to the Near-RT RIC through SMO/Non-RT RIC framework functions for calculation of coverage overlap via the A1 interface.
- E2 nodes:
Report cell configuration, performance indicators and measurement reports (e.g., cell load related information and traffic information, EE/EC measurement reports, trace records such as per-UE measurement metrics and location information) to SMO via O1 interface.

Report measurement reports (e.g., cell load related information and traffic information, EE/EC measurement reports) to Near-RT RIC via E2 interface in the case of A1 policy-based solution.

Perform actions required for EE/ES optimization.

e.g. check ongoing emergency calls and warning messages, perform some preparation actions for off switching (e.g., to enable, disable, modify carrier aggregation and/or dual connectivity, to trigger HO traffic and UEs from cells/carriers to other cells or carriers, informing neighbour nodes via X2/Xn interface etc.) as well as for on switching (e.g., cell probing, informing neighbour nodes via X2/Xn interface etc.) and make final decision on switch off/on and notify SMO via O1 interface about performed actions in case of O1 based solution or notify Near-RT RIC via E2 interface about performed actions in case of A1 policy-based solution.

- O-RU:
Report EC and EE related information via open FH M-plane interface to O-DU.

Support actions required to perform EE/ES optimization.

Updated carrier configuration (i.e., activation, deactivation or sleep).

- Near-RT RIC (For A1 policy-based solution):
Collect measurement reports (e.g., cell load related information and traffic information, EE/EC measurement reports) from E2 nodes.

(Optionally) Receive EE/ES AI/ML model for deployment via O1 or O2 interface.

Receive EE/ES related policies via A1 interface for consideration during optimization.

Analyse the received data from E2 nodes and perform AI/ML model inference to determine EE/ES. Optimization (i.e., if carriers or cells are recommended to be switched off/on) considering the optimization targets/policies.

Provide policies or required information to E2 node (O-CU) via E2 to trigger actions for EE/ES optimization.

Receive enrichment information via the A1 interface.

Associate enrichment information with collected measurements.

#### 4.8.1.3 Solution

##### 4.8.1.3.1 O1 interface based carrier and cell switch off/on optimization for energy saving

In this solution, decision making, potentially including AI/ML model training and inference, is done at the Non-RT RIC.

The context of the O1 interface based carrier and cell switch off/on optimization for energy saving is captured in table 4.8.1.3.1-1.

Table 4.8.1.3.1-1: O1 interface based carrier and cell switch off/on optimization for energy saving

| Use Case Stage | Evolution / Specification | <<Uses>> Related use |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Goal | Enable carrier and cell switch off/on energy saving functions in the network by means of configuration parameter change and actions controlled by Non-RT RIC and allow for AI/ML-based solutions. |  |
| Actors and Roles | SMO/Non-RT RIC framework function: O1 termination. rApp: Carrier and cell switch off/on optimization. E2 node(s), O-RU: Enforces carrier and cell switch off/on optimization configurations. |  |
| Assumptions | O1 interface connectivity is established. Open FH M-plane interface is established between E2 node(s) and O-RU. Network is operational. Non-RT RIC has knowledge about overlapping carriers/cells and the coverage of those carriers/cells (e.g., which carrier/cell is a coverage layer, and which is a capacity layer). |  |
| Pre-conditions | Operator has set the targets for energy saving functions in the Non-RT RIC. |  |
| Begins when | Operator enables the optimization rApp along with initial ML model for carrier and cell switch off/on energy saving functions and E2 node(s) and O-RU(s) become operational. |  |
| Step 1 (M) | rApp requests to collect necessary configurations, performance indicators, and measurement data (e.g., cell load related information and traffic information, EE/EC measurement reports, cell level configurations, per-UE measurement metrics and location information) towards SMO/Non-RT RIC framework function over R1 interface. |  |
| Step 2 (M) | SMO/Non-RT RIC framework function requests data collection towards E2 node(s) and O-RU(s) (via E2 node(s)) over O1 Interface. |  |
| Step 3 (M) | E2 node(s) upon receiving request from SMO/Non-RT RIC framework function requests and collect necessary data form O-RU(s) over open FH M-plane interface. |  |
| Step 4 (M) | E2 node(s) sends the configuration data, configured measurement data to SMO/Non-RT RIC framework function periodically or event based. |  |
| Step 5 (M) | rApp collects the configuration data, collected measurement data for processing. |  |
| Step 6 (O) | AI/ML models can be retrained either on Non-RT RIC framework or on rApp. If Non-RT RIC framework is hosting retraining, then rApp to select AI/ML model   and initiate retraining on Non-RT RIC framework. See NOTE 1. |  |
| Step 7 (O) | Upon receiving retraining request from rApp. Non-RT RIC framework initiates AI/ML model retraining. |  |
| Step 8 (O) | rApp monitors retrained AI/ML model and retrieves retrained AI/ML model. See NOTE 2. |  |
| Step 9 (O) | Upon receiving retrieval request from rApp, Non-RT RIC framework to transfer AI/ML model to rApp. See NOTE 3. |  |
| Step 10 (O) | If AI/ML model retraining is hosted by rApp then AI/ML model to be retrained on rApp itself. |  |
| Step 11 (O) | Once AI/ML model retraining is performed, AI/ML models are deployed and activated for inferencing for which rApp constantly monitors,  performance and energy consumption of the E2 node(s) energy consumption of O-RU(s). rApp monitors performance and energy consumption for evaluation of necessary O1 configurations required to perform cell and carrier shutdown. |  |
| Step 12 (M) | rApp generates O1 configurations to prepare and execute cell(s) and carrier(s) off/on SMO/Non-RT RIC framework function. |  |
| Step 13 (M) | SMO/Non-RT RIC framework function instructs E2 node(s) via O1 interface to perform the received request(s) from the rApp. |  |
| Step 14 (M) | O-RU(s) is informed about the updated O-RU(s) configuration via open FH M-plane interface by E2 node. O-RU(s) to notify E2 node(s) once O-RU(s) configuration is implemented. |  |
| Step 15 (M) | E2 node(s) will inform SMO/Non-RT RIC framework function once cell or carrier switch off/on is completed. |  |
| Step 16 (M) | SMO/Non-RT RIC framework inform rApp about completion of cell or carrier switch off/on over R1 interface. |  |
| Step 17 (M) | rApp monitors energy saving objectives and if energy saving objectives are not achieved, it can decide to initiate fallback mechanism for example, reverting changes over O1 interface for carrier and cell switch off/on optimization, and/or AI/ML model update or retraining. |  |
| Ends when | E2 node(s) becomes non-operational or when the operator disables the optimization functions or ML model for energy saving. |  |
| Exceptions | TBD |  |
| Post Conditions | rApp continues monitoring of energy saving function at E2 node(s) and O-RU. E2 node(s) and O-RU(s) operate using the newly deployed parameters/models and state (off/on). |  |
| NOTE 1: AI/ML procedures mentioned here can be subject to change based on future work on AI/ML workflow in WG2. NOTE 2: AI/ML model retrieval procedure over R1 interface is for illustration purpose, can be subject to change based on future work on AI/ML workflow in WG2. NOTE 3: AI/ML model transfer procedure over R1 interface is for illustration purpose, can be subject to change based on future work on AI/ML workflow in WG2. |  |  |

The flow diagram of O1 interface based carrier and cell switch off/on optimization for energy saving is given in figure 4.8.1.3.1-1.

##### 4.8.1.3.2 A1 policy based carrier and cell switch off/on optimization for energy saving

In this solution, decision making, potentially using AI/ML model inference, is done at Near-RT RIC. While AI/ML model training might be hosted in Non-RT or Near-RT RIC, the description below is based on AI/ML model training in the Non-RT RIC.

The context of the A1 policy based carrier and cell switch off/on optimization for energy saving is captured in table 4.8.1.3.2-1

Table 4.8.1.3.2-1: A1 policy based carrier and cell switch off/on optimization for energy saving

| Use Case Stage | Evolution / Specification | <<Uses>> Related use |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Goal | Enable A1 policy based carrier and cell switch off/on energy saving functions in the network by means of configuration parameter change and actions controlled by Near-RT RIC and allow for AI/ML-based solutions. |  |
| Actors and Roles | SMO/Non-RT RIC framework function: A1 & O1 termination. rApp: Carrier and cell switch off/on optimization. E2 node(s), O-RU: Enforces carrier and cell switch off/on optimization configurations. Near -RT RIC: Energy savings decision making function. |  |
| Assumptions | O1 interface connectivity is established between SMO and E2 nodes. R1 interface connectivity is established. Open FH M-plane interface is established between E2 node(s) and O-RU. E2 interface connectivity is established between E2 node and Near-RT RIC. A1 interface is established between Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC. Network is operational. |  |
| Pre-conditions | Operator has set the targets for energy saving functions in the Non-RT RIC. |  |
| Begins when | Operator enables the optimization rApp along with initial ML model for carrier and cell switch off/on energy saving functions and E2 node(s) and O-RU(s) become operational. See NOTE 1. |  |
| Step 1 (M) | rApp requests to collect necessary configurations, performance indicators, and measurement data (e.g., cell load related information and traffic information, EE/EC measurement reports, cell level configurations) towards SMO/Non-RT RIC framework function over R1 interface. |  |
| Step 2 (M) | SMO/Non-RT RIC framework function requests data collection towards E2 node(s) and O-RU(s) (via E2 node(s)) over O1 Interface. |  |
| Step 3 (M) | E2 node(s) upon receiving request from SMO/Non-RT RIC framework function requests and collect necessary data form O-RU(s) over open FH M-plane interface. |  |
| Step 4 (M) | E2 node(s) sends the configuration data, configured measurement data to SMO/Non-RT RIC framework function periodically or event based. |  |
| Step 5 (M) | rApp collects the configuration data, collected measurement data for processing. |  |
| Step 6 (O) | AI/ML models can be retrained either on SMO/Non-RT RIC framework or on rApp. If SMO/Non-RT RIC framework is hosting retraining, then rApp to select AI/ML model and initiate retraining on Non-RT RIC framework. See NOTE 2. |  |
| Step 7 (O) | Upon receiving retraining request from rApp. SMO/Non-RT RIC framework initiates AI/ML model retraining. |  |
| Step 8 (O) | rApp monitors retrained AI/ML model before requesting to deploy towards Near-RT RIC. |  |
| Step 9 (O) | rApp request SMO/Non-RT RIC framework to deploy AI/ML model in Near-RT RIC over R1 Interface. See NOTE 3. |  |
| Step 10 (O) | If AI/ML model retraining is hosted by rApp then AI/ML model to be retrained on rApp itself. |  |
| Step 11 (O) | Once AI/ML model retraining is performed rApp to transfer AI/ML model to Non-RT RIC framework for deployment to Near-RT RIC. |  |
| Step 12 (O) | Upon receiving request to deploy AI/ML model, Non-RT RIC framework to deploy AI/ML model in Near-RT RIC. |  |
| Step 13 (M) | rApp to trigger EE/ES optimization through A1 policy to prepare and execute cell(s) and carrier(s) off/on. |  |
| Step 14 (M) | Non-RT RIC framework receives policy from rApp and forwards it towards Near-RT RIC via A1 Interface. |  |
| Step 15 (M) | Near-RT RIC provides A1 policy response to SMO/Non-RT RIC framework. |  |
| Step 16 (M) | Non-RT RIC framework informs rApp about A1 policy feedback. |  |
| Step 17 (M) | rApp monitors energy saving objectives as per A1 policy. |  |
| Step 18 (M) | Near-RT RIC receives the policy from the Non-RT RIC over the A1 interface and inferences the EE/ES related AI/ML models and converts policy to specific E2 control or policy commands. |  |
| Step 19 (O) | The Near-RT RIC creates an EI job to ascertain overlapping carriers/cells and the coverage of those carriers/cells (e.g., geo location information of carriers/cells, coverage samples mapped geo location, etc.). |  |
| Step 20 (O) | SMO/Non-RT RIC framework functions requests EI rApp to deliver EI data as per details mentioned by Near-RT RIC. |  |
| Step 21 (O) | EI rApp delivers requested EI data to SMO/Non-RT RIC framework functions. |  |
| Step 22 (O) | Non-RT RIC delivers collected enrichment information as EI job results to the Near-RT RIC via the A1 interface. |  |
| Step 23 (M) | Near-RT RIC requests data collection from E2 node(s) and O-RU(s) via E2 interface. |  |
| Step 24 (M) | Upon receiving data collection request E2 nodes requests and collect measurement data. |  |
| Step 25 (M) | Near-RT RIC collects measurement data from E2 node(s) and O-RU(s) via E2 interface. |  |
| Step 26 (M) | Inferencing AI/ML model to evaluate & generate E2 control or policies for cell and carrier switch off/on. |  |
| Step 27 (M) | Near-RT RIC generates and sends cell and carrier switch off/on control/policy message based on inferred AI/ML model to E2 nodes and O-RU(s) via E2 interface. |  |
| Step 28 (M) | O-RU(s) node to update configurations to execute cell or carrier switch off/on. |  |
| Step 29 (M) | E2 nodes feedbacks E2 control/policy to Near-RT RIC. |  |
| Step 30 (M) | Near-RT RIC to notify Non-RT RIC if any change in the state of policy. |  |
| Step 31 (M) | SMO/Non-RT RIC framework forwards notification received from Near-RT RIC to rApp. |  |
| Step 32 (O) | If energy saving objectives are not achieved rApp can decide to initiate fallback mechanism for example, updating or deleting A1 policy for carrier and cell switch off/on optimization. |  |
| Step 33 (O) | SMO/Non-RT RIC framework send update or delete A1 policies to Near-RT RIC. |  |
| Step 34 (O) | rApp can update or retrain AI/ML model based on evaluation of energy saving objectives. |  |
| Step 35 (O) | SMO/Non-RT RIC framework send update or retrain AI/ML model to Near-RT RIC. |  |
| Ends when | E2 node(s) becomes non-operational or when the operator disables the rApp or ML model for energy saving. |  |
| Exceptions | N/A |  |
| Post Conditions | rApp continues monitoring of energy saving function at E2 node(s) and O-RU. E2 node(s) and O-RU(s) operate using the newly deployed parameters/models and state (off/on). |  |
| NOTE 1: Operator can set policies through rApp or allow AI/ML model in rApp to infer policies. NOTE 2: AI/ML procedures mentioned here can be subject to change based on future work on AI/ML workflow in WG2. NOTE 3: AI/ML model deployment procedure over R1 interface is for illustration purpose, can be subject to change based on future work on AI/ML workflow in WG2. |  |  |

The flow diagram of A1 interface based carrier and cell switch off/on optimization for energy saving is given in figure 4.8.1.3.2-1.

NOTE: Above mentioned AI/ML procedures are illustration purpose and details are not defined in the present document.

#### 4.8.1.4 Required data

This sub-clause contains the input and output data of model training and inference for energy saving cell and carrier shutdown.

##### 4.8.1.4.1 Input data

The measurement input data are used in model training and inference. They can include the following measurements to monitor energy consumption and energy efficiency of E2 node(s) and O-RU(s):

- DL PDCP SDU data volume per interface (data volume in DL delivered from O-CU-UP to O-DU, per PLMN, per QoS level, per slice, per interface (F1-U, Xn-U, X2-U)) (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.3.6.2.3)
- UL PDCP SDU data volume per interface (data volume in UL delivered to O-CU-UP from O-DU, per PLMN, per QoS level, per slice, per interface (F1-U, Xn-U, X2-U)) (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.3.6.2.4)
- RSRQ measurement per SSB per cell (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.1.31)
- RSRP measurement per SSB per cell (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.1.22)
- SINR measurement per SSB per cell (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.1.32)
- PNF energy consumption (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.1.19.3)
- Power consumed by physical network function & its components (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.1.19.2 and in MP [10], clauses B.1, B.5)
- Transmit power (as specified in MP [10], clauses B.1, B.2.1)
- M1 MDT measurement in trace record for immediate MDT measurements (as specified in 3GPP TS 32.423 [11], clause 4.34.1)
- UE location in trace record for UE location information (as specified in 3GPP TS 32.423 [11], clause 4.34.2)

##### 4.8.1.4.2 Output data

rApps to deliver energy saving & energy efficiency policies for cell/carrier switch off/on optimization through R1 interface.

### 4.8.2 RF channel reconfiguration

#### 4.8.2.1 Background and goal of the use case

In mobile networks m-MIMO antennas are used for beamforming techniques to enhance cell capacity and throughput. To achieve beamforming, O-RU(s) need to concentrate the power amplifiers at the radome by combining radiating elements. At low load, i.e., when the expected traffic volume or number of connected users are lower than the configured threshold, ES can be achieved by reducing the power consumption of O-RU(s) by switching off certain Tx/Rx arrays. For example, 32 out of 64 Tx/Rx arrays of an O-RU(s) can be switched off in a digital m-MIMO architecture and correspondingly the number of spatial layers and SSBs can be reduced. The procedure (involvement of respective O-RAN interfaces) of the RF channel reconfiguration depends on the management architecture model (hybrid or hierarchical) and the deployment option. The switch off/on decision can be made by an AI/ML model within the inference host deployed at the Non-RT RIC. Among others the AI/ML models can include prediction of future traffic, user mobility, and resource usage and can also predict expected energy efficiency enhancements, resource usage, and network performance for different ES optimization states.

This solution proposes a framework that allows the operator to flexibly configure RF channel reconfiguration parameters in a cell or in a cluster of cells through O1 configuration formulated by rApp towards E2 node(s) and O-RU(s) through SMO/Non-RT RIC or A1 policies formulated by rApp towards Near-RT RIC through SMO/Non-RT RIC framework assisted by Machine Learning (ML) techniques.

#### 4.8.2.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case

- SMO/Non-RT RIC framework function:
- Collect the configurations, performance indicators and measurement reports (e.g., cell load related information and traffic information, EE/EC measurement reports) from E2 node(s), for the purpose of decision making, optionally using training and inference of AI/ML models that assist such EE/ES functions.
- Transfer collected data towards rApp. It is assumed that configurations, performance indicators and measurement reports collected from the O-DU contain the related information for the corresponding O-RU(s).
- Signal updated configurations for EE/ES optimization towards E2 node(s) (O-CU) through O1 interface.
- (Optionally) Retrain, update, configure EE/ES AI/ML models in Non-RT RIC.
- Provide A1 policies to Near-RT RIC via A1 interface based on the request from energy saving rApp in the case of A1 policy-based solution.
- rApps:
- Collect the necessary configurations, performance indicators, and measurement reports from SMO/Non-RT RIC framework function, for the purpose of training and execution of relevant AI/ML models.
- (Optionally) Retrain, update, configure EE/ES AI/ML model.
Infer an optimized RF channel configuration for EE/ES based on the data collected using R1 interface.

Provide optimized A1 policy for EE/ES based on the data collected using R1 interface in the case of A1 policy-based solution.

- E2 nodes:
Report cell configuration, performance indicators and measurement reports (e.g., cell load related information and traffic information, EE/EC measurement reports) to SMO via O1 interface.

Report measurement reports to Near-RT RIC via E2 interface in the case of A1 policy-based solution.

Perform actions required to perform RF channel reconfiguration (i.e., O-RU Tx/Rx array selection, modification of the number of SSB beams, modification of the O-RU antenna transmit power, modification of the number of SU/MU MIMO data layers or spatial streams) as part of EE/ES optimization.

- O-RU:
Report EC and EE related information via open FH M-plane interface to O-DU.

Perform actions required to be performed due to RF channel reconfiguration (i.e., O-RU Tx/Rx array selection, modification of the number of SSB beams, modification of the O-RU antenna transmit power, modification of the number of SU/MU MIMO spatial streams or data layers) as part of EE/ES optimization.

- Near-RT RIC (For A1 policy-based solution):
Collect measurement reports (e.g., cell load related information and traffic information, EE/EC measurement reports) from E2 nodes.

(Optionally) Receive EE/ES AI/ML model for deployment via O1 or O2 interface.

Receive EE/ES related policies via A1 interface for consideration during optimization.

Analyse the received data from E2 nodes and perform AI/ML model inference to determine EE/ES. Optimization (i.e., if carriers or cells are recommended to be switched off/on) considering the optimization targets/policies.

Provide policies or required information to E2 node via E2 to trigger actions for EE/ES optimization.

#### 4.8.2.3 Solution

##### 4.8.2.3.1 O1 policy based RF channel reconfiguration optimization for energy saving

In this solution, decision making, potentially including AI/ML model training and inference, is done at the Non-RT RIC.

The context of the O1 interface based RF channel reconfiguration optimization for energy saving is captured in table 4.8.2.3.1-1.

Table 4.8.2.3.1-1: O1 interface based RF channel reconfiguration optimization for energy saving

| Use Case Stage | Evolution / Specification | <<Uses>> Related use |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Goal | Enable RF channel reconfiguration energy saving functions in the network by means of configuration parameter change and actions controlled by Non-RT RIC and allow for AI/ML-based solutions. |  |
| Actors and Roles | SMO/Non-RT RIC framework function: Termination point for O1 interface. E2 node(s), O-RU(s): Enforces optimized  RF channel configuration. rApp: RF channel reconfiguration optimization. |  |
| Assumptions | O1 interface connectivity is established. Open FH M-plane interface is established between E2 node(s) and O-RU.  Network is operational. |  |
| Pre-conditions | Operator has set the targets for energy saving functions in the Non-RT RIC. |  |
| Begins when | Operator enables the optimization rApp along with initial ML model for RF channel reconfiguration saving functions and E2 node(s) and O-RU(s) become operational. |  |
| Step 1 (M) | rApp requests to collect necessary configurations, performance indicators, and measurement data towards SMO/Non-RT RIC framework function over R1 interface. |  |
| Step 2 (M) | SMO/Non-RT RIC framework function requests data collection towards E2 node(s) and O-RU(s) (via E2 node(s)) over O1 interface. |  |
| Step 3 (M) | E2 node(s) upon receiving request from SMO/Non-RT RIC framework function requests and collect necessary data from O-RU(s) over open FH M-plane interface. |  |
| Step 4 (M) | E2 node(s) send the configuration data, configured measurement data to SMO/Non-RT RIC framework periodically or event based. |  |
| Step 5 (M) | rApp collects the configuration data, collected measurement data for processing. |  |
| Step 6 (O) | AI/ML models can be retrained either on Non-RT RIC framework or on rApp. If Non-RT RIC framework is hosting retraining, then rApp to select AI/ML model   and initiate retraining on Non-RT RIC framework. See NOTE 1. |  |
| Step 7 (O) | Upon receiving retraining request from rApp. Non-RT RIC framework initiates AI/ML model retraining. |  |
| Step 8 (O) | rApp monitors retrained AI/ML model and retrieves retrained AI/ML model. See NOTE 2. |  |
| Step 9 (O) | Upon receiving retrieval request from rApp, Non-RT RIC framework to transfer AI/ML model to rApp. See NOTE 3. |  |
| Step 10 (O) | If AI/ML model retraining is hosted by rApp then AI/ML model to be retrained on rApp itself. |  |
| Step 11 (O) | Once AI/ML model retraining is performed, AI/ML models are deployed and activated for inferencing for which rApp constantly monitors performance and energy consumption to evaluate necessary O1 configurations to perform RF channel reconfiguration. |  |
| Step 12 (M) | rApp to request the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework to configure E2 node(s) to prepare and execute RF channel reconfigurations as below, O-RU Tx/Rx array selection. Modify the number of SU/MU MIMO spatial streams or data layers. Modify the number of SSB beams. Modify O-RU antenna transmit power. |  |
| Step 13 (M) | SMO/Non-RT RIC framework function to requests to configure E2 node(s) for RF channel reconfiguration through O1 interface. |  |
| Step 14 (M) | O-RU(s) is informed about the updated O-RU configuration via open FH M-plane interface by E2 node(s). O-RU(s) to inform E2 node(s) once O-RU(s) configuration is implemented. |  |
| Step 15 (M) | E2 node(s) will inform SMO/Non-RT RIC framework function once RF channel reconfiguration is completed. |  |
| Step 16 (M) | SMO/Non-RT RIC framework function to inform rApp about completion of RF channel reconfiguration over R1 interface. |  |
| Step 17 (M) | rApp monitors energy saving objectives. If energy saving objectives are not achieved, it can decide to initiate fallback mechanism for example, reverting changes over O1 interface for RF channel reconfigurations, and/or AI/ML model update or retraining. |  |
| Ends when | E2 node(s) becomes non-operational or when the operator disables the optimization functions or ML model for energy saving. |  |
| Exceptions | TBD. |  |
| Post Conditions | rApp continues monitoring of energy saving function at E2 node(s) and O-RU(s). E2 node(s) and O-RU(s) operate using the newly deployed parameters/models and state. |  |
| NOTE 1: AI/ML procedures mentioned here can be subject to change based on future work on AI/ML workflow in WG2. NOTE 2: AI/ML model retrieval procedure over R1 interface is for illustration purpose, can be subject to change based on future work on AI/ML workflow in WG2. NOTE 3: AI/ML model transfer procedure over R1 interface is for illustration purpose, can be subject to change based on future work on AI/ML workflow in WG2. |  |  |

- The flow diagram of O1 interface based RF channel reconfiguration optimization for energy saving is shown in figure 4.8.2.3.1-1.

##### 4.8.2.3.2 A1 policy based RF channel reconfiguration optimization for energy saving

In this solution, decision making, potentially using AI/ML model inference, is done at Near-RT RIC. While AI/ML model training might be hosted in Non-RT or Near-RT RIC, the description below is based on AI/ML model inferencing in the Near-RT RIC.

The context of the A1 policy based optimization for energy saving is captured in table 4.8.2.3.2-1.

Table 4.8.2.3.2-1: A1 policy based optimization for energy saving

| Use Case Stage | Evolution / Specification | <<Uses>> Related use |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Goal | Enable A1 policy based RF channel reconfiguration energy saving functions in the network by means of configuration parameter change and actions controlled by Near-RT RIC and allow for AI/ML-based solutions. |  |
| Actors and Roles | SMO/Non-RT RIC framework function: A1 & O1 termination rApp: RF channel reconfiguration optimization E2 node(s), O-RU: Enforces RF channel reconfiguration Near-RT RIC: RF channel reconfiguration energy savings decision making function |  |
| Assumptions | O1 interface connectivity is established between SMO and E2 nodes. R1 interface connectivity is established. Open FH M-plane interface is established between O-DU and O-RU. E2 interface connectivity is established between E2 nodes and Near-RT RIC. A1 interface is established between Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC. Network is operational. |  |
| Pre-conditions | Operator has set the targets for energy saving functions in the Non-RT RIC. |  |
| Begins when | Operator enables the optimization rApp along with initial ML model for RF channel reconfiguration energy saving functions and E2 node(s) and O-RU(s) become operational. See NOTE. |  |
| Step 1 (M) | rApp requests for necessary configurations, performance indicators, and measurement data towards SMO/Non-RT RIC framework function over R1 interface. Configurations may contain data related to node capability such as O-RU RF channel configuration/TRx control capability information which rApp needs to know before formulating A1 policies for ASM optimization. |  |
| Step 2 (M) | SMO/Non-RT RIC framework function requests data collection towards E2 node(s) and O-RU(s) (via E2 node(s)) over O1 Interface. |  |
| Step 3 (M) | E2 node(s) upon receiving request from SMO/Non-RT RIC framework function requests and collect necessary data form O-RU(s) over open FH M-plane interface. |  |
| Step 4 (M) | E2 node(s) sends the configuration data, configured measurement data to SMO/Non-RT RIC framework function periodically or event based. |  |
| Step 5 (M) | rApp collects the configuration data, collected measurement data for processing. |  |
| Step 6 (M) | rApp to trigger EE/ES optimization through A1 policy to prepare and execute RF channel configuration/Trx control. |  |
| Step 7 (M) | Non-RT RIC framework receives policy from rApp and forwards it towards Near-RT RIC via A1 interface. |  |
| Step 8 (M) | Near-RT RIC provides A1 policy response to SMO/Non-RT RIC framework. |  |
| Step 9 (M) | Non-RT RIC framework informs rApp about A1 policy feedback. |  |
| Step 10 (M) | rApp monitors energy saving objectives as per A1 policy. |  |
| Step 11 (M) | The Near-RT RIC receives the policy from the Non-RT RIC over the A1 interface. It then interprets the policy to determine the required data collection and E2 control/policies. |  |
| Step 12 (M) | Inferencing AI/ML model to evaluate & generate E2 control or policies for RF channel configuration/Trx Control optimization. |  |
| Step 13 (M) | Near-RT RIC to notify Non-RT RIC if any change in the state of policy. |  |
| Step 14 (M) | SMO/Non-RT RIC framework forwards notification received from Near-RT RIC to rApp. |  |
| Step 15 (O) | If energy saving objectives are not achieved rApp may decide to initiate fallback mechanism for example, updating or deleting A1 policy for RF channel configuration/Trx control optimization. |  |
| Step 16 (O) | SMO/Non-RT RIC framework send update or delete A1 policies to Near-RT RIC. |  |
| Step 17 (O) | rApp can update or retrain AI/ML model based on evaluation of energy saving objectives. |  |
| Step 18 (O) | SMO/Non-RT RIC framework send update or retrained AI/ML model to Near-RT RIC. |  |
| Ends when | E2 node(s) becomes non-operational. |  |
| Exceptions | N/A |  |
| Post Conditions | rApp continues monitoring of energy saving function at E2 node(s) and O-RU. E2 node(s) and O-RU(s) operate using the newly deployed parameters/models and state (off/on). |  |
| NOTE: Operator can set policies through rApp or allow AI/ML model in rApp to infer policies. |  |  |

- The flow diagram of A1 interface based RF channel reconfiguration optimization for energy saving is shown in figure 4.8.2.3.2-1.

#### 4.8.2.4 Required data

This sub-clause contains the input and output data of model training and inference for energy saving using RF channel reconfiguration.

##### 4.8.2.4.1 Input data

The measurement input data are used in model training and inference. They can include the following measurements to monitor energy consumption and energy efficiency of E2 node(s) and O-RU(s):

- DL PDCP SDU data volume per interface (data volume in DL delivered from O-CU-UP to O-DU, per PLMN, per QoS level, per slice, per interface (F1-U, Xn-U, X2-U)) (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.3.6.2.3)
- UL PDCP SDU data volume per interface (data volume in UL delivered to O-CU-UP from O-DU, per PLMN, per QoS level, per slice, per interface (F1-U, Xn-U, X2-U)) (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.3.6.2.4)
- RSRQ measurement per SSB per cell (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.1.31)
- RSRP measurement per SSB per cell (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.1.22)
- SINR measurement per SSB per cell (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.1.32)
- PNF energy consumption (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.1.19.3)
- Power consumed by physical network function & its components (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.1.19.2 and in MP [10], clauses B.1, B.5)
- Transmit power (as specified in MP [10], clauses B.1, B.2.1)

##### 4.8.2.4.2 Output data

rApps to deliver energy saving & energy efficiency A1 policies for RF channel reconfiguration optimization through R1 interface.

### 4.8.3 Advanced sleep mode

This use case describes a method to achieve intelligent energy saving by optimizing the sleep mode via Non-RT RIC-based guidance.

#### 4.8.3.1 Background and goal of the use case

Mobile networks were often designed to provide higher data rates, better coverage, and ubiquitous connectivity. They have to be always available and well-dimensioned in order to ensure the best Quality of Service (QoS) even in peak hours and emergency or mass event scenarios. This may lead to an over-dimensioned and under-utilized network particularly when the traffic demand is low, such is the case during night hours.

The energy consumption of a network is composed of two components:

- A fixed component, which is mainly due to the system architecture and includes the power consumption of control signals, backhaul infrastructure, and load-independent consumption of baseband processors.
- A variable, load-dependent component, which depends on the transported traffic.
Over-provisioning of the network as well as low load periods translate into significant, and unnecessary, energy consumption, due to the fixed component. Sleep modes, which consist in shutting down the O-RU for a certain period of time, are an efficient way to handle this component.

It consists in a progressive deactivation of the O-RU’s components according to the time needed by each of them to shut down then reactivate again. According to this transition time, four levels of sleep modes have been specified in CUS [12], clause 16. Deeper sleep levels allow more energy saving but induce larger delays for the users who arrive to the network and who need to wait longer for the components to be reactivated. Hence, Non-RT RIC can provide policies in such cases where reactivation time may not be concern or proactively reactivates.

O-RU and E2 nodes (O-CU, O-DU) may implement various sleep modes. The sleep modes could be enabled by SMO/Non-RT RIC through A1 policy. When enabled, the Near-RT RIC selects among the sleep modes considering their capabilities, the actual traffic situation, and the network conditions. Different SM operate at different time scales (e.g., symbol, slot, frame).

This solution proposes a framework that allows the operator to flexibly select various sleep modes parameters through A1 policy formulated by rApp towards Near-RT RIC through SMO/Non-RT RIC framework assisted by Machine Learning (ML) techniques.

#### 4.8.3.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case

- SMO/Non-RT RIC framework function:
- Collect the configurations, performance indicators and measurement reports (e.g., cell load related information and traffic information, EE/EC measurement reports) from E2 node(s) and trace records (e.g., per-UE measurement metrics and location information) through O1 interface, for the purpose of decision making, optionally using training and inference of AI/ML models that assist such EE/ES functions.
- Transfer collected data towards rApp. It is assumed that configurations, performance indicators and measurement reports collected from the O-DU contain the related information for the corresponding O-RU(s).
- Signal A1 policies for Near-RT RIC for ASM optimization A1 interface.
- (Optionally) Retrain, update, configure AI/ML models in Non-RT RIC.
- rApps:
- Collect the necessary configurations, performance indicators, and measurement reports from SMO/Non-RT RIC framework function, for the purpose of training and execution of relevant AI/ML models.
- (Optionally) Retrain, update, configure EE/ES AI/ML model.
Infer an optimized A1 policy for ASM based on the data collected using R1 interface.

- E2 nodes:
Report cell configuration, performance indicators and measurement reports (e.g., cell load related information and traffic information, EE/EC measurement reports, Trace records such as per-UE measurement metrics and location information) to SMO via O1 interface.

Report measurement reports (e.g., cell load related information and traffic information, EE/EC measurement reports) to Near-RT RIC via E2 interface.

Support actions required to perform ASM and Trx control for EE/ES optimization.

- O-RU:
Report EC and EE related information via open FH M-plane interface to O-DU .

Support actions required to perform ASM and Trx control for EE/ES optimization.

- Near-RT RIC (For A1 policy based solution):
Collect measurement reports (e.g., cell load related information and traffic information, EE/EC measurement reports) from E2 nodes.

(Optionally) Receive EE/ES AI/ML model for deployment via O1 or O2 interface.

Receive EE/ES related policies via A1 interface for consideration during optimization.

Analyse the received data from E2 nodes and perform AI/ML model inference to determine ASM & Trx control EE/ES. Optimization (i.e., ASM to be activated for certain time and cells) considering the optimization targets/policies.

Provide policies or required information to E2 node (O-CU) via E2 to trigger actions for EE/ES optimization.

#### 4.8.3.3 Solution

##### 4.8.3.3.1 A1 policy based ASM optimization for energy saving

In this solution, decision making, potentially using AI/ML model inference, is done at Near-RT RIC. While AI/ML model training might be hosted in Non-RT or Near-RT RIC, the description below is based on AI/ML model inferencing in the Near-RT RIC.

The context of the A1 policy based ASM optimization for energy saving is captured in table 4.8.3.3.1-1.

Table 4.8.3.3.1-1: A1 policy based ASM optimization for energy saving

| Use Case Stage | Evolution / Specification | <<Uses>> Related use |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Goal | Enable A1 policy based ASM energy saving functions in the network by means of configuration parameter change and actions controlled by Near-RT RIC and allow for AI/ML-based solutions. |  |
| Actors and Roles | SMO/Non-RT RIC framework function: A1 & O1 termination. rApp: ASM optimization. E2 node(s), O-RU: Enforces ASM E2 controls or policies.  Near-RT RIC: ASM energy savings decision making function. |  |
| Assumptions | O1 interface connectivity is established between SMO and E2 nodes. R1 interface connectivity is established. Open FH M-plane interface is established between E2 node(s) and O-RU. E2 interface connectivity is established between E2 node and Near-RT RIC. A1 interface is established between Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC. Network is operational. |  |
| Pre-conditions | Operator has set the targets for energy saving functions in the Non-RT RIC. |  |
| Begins when | Operator enables the optimization rApp along with initial ML model for ASM energy saving functions and E2 node(s) and O-RU(s) become operational. See NOTE. |  |
| Step 1 (M) | rApp requests to collect necessary configurations, performance indicators, and measurement data towards SMO/Non-RT RIC framework function over R1 interface. Configurations may contain data related to node capability such as O-RU ASM capability information which rApp needs to know before formulating A1 policies for ASM optimization. |  |
| Step 2 (M) | SMO/Non-RT RIC framework function requests data collection towards E2 node(s) and O-RU(s) (via E2 node(s)) over O1 interface. |  |
| Step 3 (M) | E2 node(s) upon receiving request from SMO/Non-RT RIC framework function requests and collect necessary data form O-RU(s) over open FH M-plane interface. |  |
| Step 4 (M) | E2 node(s) sends the configuration data, configured measurement data to SMO/Non-RT RIC framework function periodically or event based. |  |
| Step 5 (M) | rApp collects the configuration data, collected measurement data for processing. |  |
| Step 6 (M) | rApp to trigger EE/ES optimization through A1 policy to prepare and execute ASM & Trx control. |  |
| Step 7 (M) | Non-RT RIC framework receives policy from rApp and forwards it towards Near-RT RIC via A1 interface. |  |
| Step 8 (M) | Near-RT RIC provides A1 policy response to SMO/Non-RT RIC framework. |  |
| Step 9 (M) | Non-RT RIC framework informs rApp about A1 policy feedback. |  |
| Step 10 (M) | rApp monitors energy saving objectives as per A1 policy. |  |
| Step 11 (M) | The Near-RT RIC receives the policy from the Non-RT RIC over the A1 interface. It then interprets the policy to determine the required data collection and E2 control/policies. |  |
| Step 12 (M) | Inferencing AI/ML model to evaluate & generate E2 control or policies for ASM optimization. |  |
| Step 13 (M) | Near-RT RIC to notify Non-RT RIC if any change in the state of policy. |  |
| Step 14 (M) | SMO/Non-RT RIC framework forwards notification received from Near-RT RIC to rApp. |  |
| Step 15 (O) | If energy saving objectives are not achieved rApp may decide to initiate fallback mechanism for example, updating or deleting A1 policy for ASM optimization. |  |
| Step 16 (O) | SMO/Non-RT RIC framework send update or delete A1 policies to Near-RT RIC |  |
| Step 17 (O) | rApp can update or retrain AI/ML model based on evaluation of energy saving objectives. |  |
| Step 18 (O) | SMO/Non-RT RIC framework send update or retrain AI/ML model to Near-RT RIC. |  |
| Ends when | E2 node(s) becomes non-operational or when the operator disables the rApp or ML model for energy saving. |  |
| Exceptions | N/A |  |
| Post Conditions | rApp continues monitoring of energy saving function at E2 node(s) and O-RU. E2 node(s) and O-RU(s) operate using the newly deployed parameters/models and state (off/on). |  |
| NOTE: Operator can set policies through rApp or allow AI/ML model in rApp to infer policies. |  |  |

- The flow diagram of A1 interface based ASM optimization for energy saving is shown in figure 4.8.3.3.1-1.

#### 4.8.3.4   Required data

This sub-clause contains the input and output data of model training and inference for energy saving using ASM.

##### 4.8.3.4.1  Input data

The measurement input data are used in model training and inference. They can include the following measurements to monitor energy consumption and energy efficiency of E2 node(s) and O-RU(s):

- DL PDCP SDU data volume per interface (data volume in DL delivered per PLMN, per QoS level, per slice, per interface ((from O-CU-UP to O-DU over F1-U, to external O-CU-UP over Xn-U and to external O-eNB over X2-U)) (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.3.6.2.3)
- UL PDCP SDU data volume per interface (data volume in UL delivered per PLMN, per QoS level, per slice, per interface ((from O-DU to O-CU-UP over F1-U, to external O-CU-UP over Xn-U and to external O-eNB over X2-U)) (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.3.6.2.4)
- RSRQ measurement per SSB per cell (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.1.31)
- RSRP measurement per SSB per cell (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.1.22)
- SINR measurement per SSB per cell (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.1.32)
- PNF energy consumption (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.1.19.3)
- Power consumed by physical network function & its components (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.1.19.2 and in MP [10], clauses B.1, B.5)
- Transmit power (as specified in MP [10], clauses B.1, B.2.1)
- M1 MDT measurement in trace record for immediate MDT measurements (as specified in 3GPP TS 32.423 [11], clause 4.34.1)
- UE location in trace record for UE location information (as specified in 3GPP TS 32.423 [11], clause 4.34.2)
- O-RU ASM capability information (as specified in MP [10], clause 20.4)

##### 4.8.3.4.2 Output data

rApps to deliver energy saving & energy efficiency policies for ASM optimization through R1 interface.

### 4.8.4 Time domain cell DTX/DRX optimization (3GPP Rel-18)

#### 4.8.4.1 Background and goal of the use case

In 3GPP Release 18 [21], clause 15.4.2.3, Discontinuous Transmission (DTX) and Discontinuous Reception (DRX) mechanisms were further enhanced to improve energy efficiency for the gNB. To reduce the gNB's downlink transmission and uplink reception active time, the UE can be configured with a periodic cell DTX/DRX pattern, which defines active and non-active periods. This pattern is common for UEs configured with this feature in the cell, and the cell DTX/DRX patterns can be configured and activated separately. A maximum of two cell DTX/DRX patterns can be configured per MAC entity for different serving cells. When cell DTX is activated, the UE may not monitor PDCCH in selected cases or does not monitor SPS occasions during the non-active duration of the cell DTX. Similarly, when cell DRX is activated, the UE does not transmit on CG resources or transmit an SR during the non-active duration of the cell DRX. This feature is applicable only to UEs in the RRC_CONNECTED state and does not impact the Random Access procedure, SSB transmission, paging, or system information broadcasting. Cell DTX/DRX can be activated or deactivated via RRC signaling or L1 group common signaling.

Cell DTX/DRX is characterized by:

- Active duration: The duration during which the UE is expected to receive PDCCHs, SPS occasions, and transmit SR or CG. In this duration, the gNB's transmission/reception of PDCCH, SPS, SR, CG, and periodic/semi-persistent CSI reports are not impacted for energy-saving purposes.
- Cycle: Specifies the periodic repetition of the active duration followed by a non-active period.
The active duration and cycle parameters are common between cell DTX and DRX when both are configured. If there is an emergency call or a public safety-related service (e.g., MPS or MCS), the network ensures that these services are not impacted, possibly by releasing or deactivating the cell DTX/DRX configuration. The network should also ensure at least partial overlap between the UE’s connected mode DRX on-duration and cell DTX/DRX active duration, ensuring that the UE’s DRX periodicity is a multiple of the cell DTX/DRX periodicity, or vice versa.

The Non-RT RIC considers several factors when generating A1 policies for energy savings through cell DTX/DRX. These factors include real-time traffic patterns, the density of Rel-18-capable UEs, and the potential for energy savings in specific cells. It also evaluates QoE/QoS requirements to ensure service quality is maintained. Based on this analysis, the Non-RT RIC generates A1 policies that include, but are not limited to, the following:

Activate DTX/DRX in cells with low traffic or a high concentration of Rel-18 UEs.

Steer Rel-18 UEs toward specific cells, enabling those cells to either operate efficiently or be shut down.

Bar non-Rel-18 UEs from cells optimized for DTX/DRX to maximize energy savings.

Balance QoE/QoS by adjusting traffic steering and DTX/DRX settings, ensuring energy efficiency without service

degradation.

These A1 policies are enforced by the Near-RT RIC, which dynamically applies DTX/DRX configurations and traffic steering decisions in near-real-time.

#### 4.8.4.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case

- SMO/Non-RT RIC framework:
- Collect the configurations, performance indicators and measurement reports (e.g., cell load related information and traffic information, EE/EC measurement reports) from E2 node(s) and trace records (e.g., per-UE measurement metrics, location information, Rel-18 and pre-Rel-18 supported UE information) through O1 interface, for the purpose of decision making.
- Transfer collected data towards rApp. It is assumed that configurations, performance indicators and measurement reports collected from the O-DU contain the related information for the corresponding O-RU(s).
- Create A1 polices for Near-RT RIC based on rApp request to optimize time domain cell DTX/DRX via the A1 interface.
- rApps:
- Collect the necessary configurations, performance indicators, and measurement reports from SMO/Non-RT RIC framework function, for the purpose of training and execution of relevant AI/ML models.
- (Optionally) Retrain, update, configure EE/ES AI/ML model.
Infer an optimized A1 policy for time domain cell DTX/DRX optimization based on the data collected using R1 interface.

- E2 nodes:
Report cell configuration, performance indicators and measurement reports (e.g., cell load related information and traffic information, EE/EC measurement reports, trace records such as per-UE measurement metrics, location information and Rel-18 and pre-Rel-18 supported UE information) to SMO via O1 interface.

Report measurement reports (e.g., cell load related information and traffic information, EE/EC measurement reports) to Near-RT RIC via E2 interface.

Support actions required to perform time domain cell DTX/DRX based optimization for EE/ES optimization.

Note that the requirements of O1 interface for E2 nodes are under the scope of WG10.

- O-RU:
Report EC and EE related information via open FH M-plane interface to O-DU.

Support actions required to perform time domain cell DTX/DRX based optimization for EE/ES optimization.

Note that the requirements for O-RU and open FH are under the scope of WG4.

- Near-RT RIC:
Collect measurement reports (e.g., cell load related information and traffic information, EE/EC measurement reports, Rel-18 and pre-Rel-18 supported UE information) from E2 nodes.

(Optionally) Receive EE/ES AI/ML model for deployment via O1 or O2 interface.

Analyse the received data from E2 nodes and perform AI/ML model inference to determine time domain cell DTX/DRX based EE/ES optimization (i.e., time domain cell DTX/DRX to be activated for certain time and cells) considering the optimization targets/policies.

Provide policies or required information to E2 node (O-CU) via E2 to trigger actions for EE/ES optimization.

Note that the requirements for Near-RT RIC are under the scope of WG3.

#### 4.8.4.3 Solution

##### 4.8.4.3.1 A1 policy based time domain cell DTX/DRX optimization for energy saving

In this solution, decision making, potentially using AI/ML model inference, is done at Near-RT RIC. While AI/ML model training might be hosted in Non-RT RIC or Near-RT RIC, the description below is based on AI/ML model inferencing in the Near-RT RIC.

The context of the A1 policy based time domain cell DTX/DRX optimization for energy saving is captured in table 4.8.4.3.1-1.

Table 4.8.4.3.1-1: A1 policy based time domain cell DTX/DRX optimization for energy saving

| Use Case Stage | Evolution / Specification | <<Uses>> Related use |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Goal | A1 policy based guidance for performing time domain cell DTX/DRX energy saving in the network. |  |
| Actors and Roles | SMO/Non-RT RIC framework function: A1 & O1 termination. rApp: Time domain cell DTX/DRX optimization. E2 node(s): Enforces time domain cell DTX/DRX on O-RU based on E2 policy or control. Near-RT RIC: Time domain cell DTX/DRX energy savings decision making function. |  |
| Assumptions | O1 interface connectivity is established between SMO and E2 nodes. R1 interface connectivity is established. Open FH M-plane interface is established between E2 node(s) and O-RU. E2 interface connectivity is established between E2 node and Near-RT RIC. A1 interface is established between Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC. Network is operational. |  |
| Pre-conditions | Operator has set the targets for energy saving in the Non-RT RIC. |  |
| Begins when | Operator enables the rApp along with initial ML model for time domain cell DTX/DRX energy saving and E2 node(s) and O-RU(s) become operational. See NOTE. |  |
| Step 1 (M) | rApp requests to collect necessary configurations, performance indicators, and measurement data towards SMO/Non-RT RIC framework over R1 interface. Configurations may contain data related to UE capability to support 3GPP Rel-18, which rApp needs to know before formulating A1 policies for time domain cell DTX/DRX optimization. |  |
| Step 2 (M) | SMO/Non-RT RIC framework requests data collection towards E2 node(s) and O-RU(s) (via E2 node(s)) over O1 interface. |  |
| Step 3 (M) | E2 node(s) upon receiving request from SMO/Non-RT RIC framework requests and collect necessary data form O-RU(s) over open FH M-plane interface. |  |
| Step 4 (M) | E2 node(s) sends the configuration data, configured measurement data to SMO/Non-RT RIC framework periodically or event based. |  |
| Step 5 (M) | rApp collects the configuration data, collected measurement data for processing. |  |
| Step 6 (M) | rApp to trigger EE/ES optimization through A1 policy to prepare and execute time domain cell DTX/DRX optimization. |  |
| Step 7 (M) | SMO/Non-RT RIC framework receives policy from rApp and forwards it towards Near-RT RIC via A1 interface. |  |
| Step 8 (M) | Near-RT RIC provides A1 policy response to SMO/Non-RT RIC framework. |  |
| Step 9 (M) | SMO/Non-RT RIC framework informs rApp about A1 policy feedback. |  |
| Step 10 (M) | rApp monitors energy saving objectives as per A1 policy. |  |
| Step 11 (M) | It then interprets the policy to determine the required data collection and E2 control/policies. |  |
| Step 12 (M) | Inferencing AI/ML model to evaluate & generate E2 control or policies for time domain cell DTX/DRX optimization. |  |
| Step 13 (M) | Near-RT RIC to notify Non-RT RIC if any change in the state of policy. |  |
| Step 14 (M) | SMO/Non-RT RIC framework forwards notification received from Near-RT RIC to rApp. |  |
| Step 15 (O) | If energy saving objectives are not achieved rApp may decide to initiate fallback mechanism for example, updating or deleting A1 policy for time domain cell DTX/DRX optimization. |  |
| Step 16 (O) | SMO/Non-RT RIC framework send update or delete A1 policies to Near-RT RIC. |  |
| Ends when | E2 node(s) becomes non-operational or when the operator disables the rApp for ML model for energy saving. |  |
| Exceptions | N/A |  |
| Post Conditions | rApp continues monitoring of energy saving function at E2 node(s) and O-RU. E2 node(s) and O-RU(s) operate using the newly deployed parameters/models and state (off/on). |  |
| NOTE: Operator can set policies through rApp or allow AI/ML model in rApp to infer policies. |  |  |

- The flow diagram of A1 interface-based time domain cell DTX/DRX optimization for energy saving is shown in figure 4.8.4.3.1-1.

#### 4.8.4.4 Required data

This sub-clause contains the input and output data of model training and inference for energy saving using time domain cell DTX/DRX optimization.

##### 4.8.4.4.1  Input data

The measurement input data are used in model training and inference. They can include the following measurements to monitor energy consumption and energy efficiency of E2 node(s) and O-RU(s):

- DL PDCP SDU data volume per interface (data volume in DL delivered per PLMN, per QoS level, per slice, per interface (from O-CU-UP to O-DU over F1-U, to external O-CU-UP over Xn-U and to external O-eNB over X2-U)) (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.3.6.2.3)
- UL PDCP SDU data volume per interface (data volume in UL delivered per PLMN, per QoS level, per slice, per interface (from O-DU to O-CU-UP over F1-U, to external O-CU-UP over Xn-U and to external O-eNB over X2-U)) (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.3.6.2.4)
- RSRQ measurement per SSB per cell (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.1.31)
- RSRP measurement per SSB per cell (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.1.22)
- SINR measurement per SSB per cell (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.1.32)
- PNF energy consumption (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.1.19.3)
- Power consumed by physical network function & its components (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.1.19.2 and in MP [10], clauses B.1, B.5)
- Transmit power (as specified in MP [10], clauses B.1, B.2.1)
- M1 MDT measurement in trace record for immediate MDT measurements (as specified in 3GPP TS 32.423  [11], clause 4.34.1)
- UE location in trace record for UE location information (as specified in 3GPP TS 32.423 [11], clause 4.34.2)
- UE capability information to support the time domain cell DTX/DRX inter-band CA operation (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.306 [22], clause 4.2.7.2)
- Measurement of paging success rate, helps optimize DRX cycle length to minimize paging failures and avoid unnecessary wake ups (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause 5.1.1.27)
- DRX cycle parameters like on-duration timer, inactivity timer, and short/long DRX cycle lengths per UE (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [20], clause 5.7)
- Battery usage patterns from UEs during active and DRX modes to optimize DRX configurations to balance energy savings for the network and battery preservation for UEs (as specified 3GPP TS 28.552 [5], clause A.122)
- Quality of Service (QoS) class identifier or 5G QoS indicator assigned to UEs to determine which UEs can enter DRX mode without compromising critical services e.g., VoIP, real-time video (as specified 3GPP TS 23.501 [2], clauses 5.7.3, 5.7.4)

##### 4.8.4.4.2  Output data

rApps to deliver energy saving & energy efficiency A1 policies for time domain cell DTX/DRX optimization through R1 interface.

## 4.9 O-Cloud resource optimization

This clause contains the set of O-Cloud resource optimization use cases

### 4.9.1  Use case: O-Cloud node draining use case

#### 4.9.1.1 Background and goal of the use case

When one or more NF(s) is (are) experiencing some performance degradation, and there is possibility that issue could not be fixed, or root cause could not be identified just by analyzing O1 (FCAPS) data. There can be a requirement of co-relating O1 and O2 (FCAPS) data optionally with the help of AI/ML, which can result in identification of root cause.

Examples for reasons to perform O-Cloud node draining:

- There is possibility of faulty or misconfiguration of underneath O-Cloud node. By co-relating RAN OAM and O2 related data rApp will help in identifying issue in O-Cloud node which is found to be the root cause of NF's performance degradation, then O-Cloud can be drained, and relocation of the NF(s) on another O-Cloud node can be performed. This example explains a scenario where an action can be invoked when NF(s) performance degradation happens due to O-Cloud node(s), which can be resolved by draining the O-Cloud node.
- NOTE: The O-Cloud node(s) is set to maintenance mode (as specified in O2-GA&P [13], clause 3.10.2) by default, when this use case is called.

#### 4.9.1.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case

SMO/Non-RT RIC framework:

To collect necessary performance, configuration, and other data for rApp to define and update policies which guides the SMO for O-Cloud resource management through O2 related functions over O2 interface.

Non-RT RIC framework should support rApp for managing data to and from O2 related functions related to resource management.

Train AI/ML model with data from O1 and O2, which supports rApp to predict possible requirement of O-Cloud node draining.

rApps:

Collect the necessary configurations, performance indicators, and measurement reports from SMO/Non-RT RIC framework.

(Optionally) Retrain, update, configure AI/ML model.

Infer an optimized policies/recommendations for O-Cloud node draining based on the data collected using R1 interface.

O2 related functions (NFO/FOCOM):

To support discovery and delivery of O-Cloud IMS/DMS FCAPS data.

To support reception of policy/recommendations from rApp and enforcing these policies/ recommendations towards O-Cloud over O2 interface.

RAN OAM functions:

Retrieve relevant PM, CM, FM data from E2 nodes via the O1 interface.

Allow rApps to access the PM, CM, FM data over R1 interface.

O-Cloud (IMS and DMS):

To support delivery of O-Cloud (IMS/DMS) resource performance, configuration, and other data to O2 related functions.

To provide feedback post completion or non-completion of recommendations to Non-RT RIC through O2 related functions.

To support to relocate network function and drain O-Cloud node.

E2 nodes:

Support to send fault and measurement data, RAN configurations to SMO/Non-RT RIC via the O1 interface.

#### 4.9.1.3 Solutions

In this solution, decision making, potentially using AI/ML model inference, is done at rApp. While AI/ML model training might be hosted in Non-RT RIC, the description below is based on AI/ML model training in the Non-RT RIC.

The context of Non-RT RIC based O-Cloud node draining is captured in table 4.9.1.3-1.

Table 4.9.1.3-1: Non-RT RIC based O-Cloud node draining

| Use Case Stage | Evolution / Specification |
| --- | --- |
| Goal | Draining O-Cloud node through O2 related functions. |
| Actors and Roles | SMO/Non-RT RIC framework. rApp: O-Cloud policy/recommendations triggering function. O2 related functions (NFO/FOCOM): Orchestration and management related functions. RAN OAM functions: O1 FCAPS functions.  O-Cloud IMS and DMS: O-Cloud policy enforcement and resource data reporting. E2 node: To report network function data to SMO/Non-RT RIC. |
| Assumptions | All relevant functions and components are instantiated.  O1 and O2 interface connectivity is established with SMO including RAN OAM functions /O2 related functions. R1 interface connectivity is established between rApp and Non-RT RIC framework. |
| Pre-conditions | Network is operational. |
| Begins when | Operator specified trigger condition or event is detected. |
| Step 1 (M) | rApp sent discovery request to SMO/Non-RT RIC framework to discover O2 related services. |
| Step 2 (M) | Non-RT RIC framework resolves the request and sent service discovery result to rApp. |
| Step 3 (M) | rApp requests O2 related data from O2 related functions (NFO/FOCOM). rApp can request data such as compute utilization, memory usage, availability of network function, performance of API responses from NF deployments, status of AAL logical processing unit, etc. |
| Step 4 (M) | Non-RT RIC framework processes the data request and request O2 related function (NFO and FOCOM) to collect O2ims and O2dms related data. |
| Step 5 (M) | O2 related function (FOCOM) performs data request and collection from O-Cloud (IMS). |
| Step 6 (M) | O2 related function (NFO) performs data request and collection from O-Cloud (DMS). |
| Step 7 (M) | SMO/Non-RT RIC framework collect and store O2ims and O2dms related data. |
| Step 8 (M) | SMO/Non-RT RIC framework delivers O2 related data towards rApp over R1 Interface. |
| Step 9 (M) | rApp requests RAN OAM related data to be collected from E2 nodes such as availability of E2 node, accessibility KPIs, UEs connected, user traffic and alarms reported on interface level, etc., to understand performance of E2 nodes. |
| Step 10 (M) | Non-RT RIC framework forwards request to E2 nodes through RAN OAM functions. |
| Step 11 (M) | RAN OAM functions request and collect data from E2 nodes. |
| Step 12 (M) | SMO/Non-RT RIC framework to collect and store RAN OAM related PM data. |
| Step 13 (M) | SMO/Non-RT RIC framework delivers RAN OAM related O1 data towards rApp. |
| Step 14 (O) | AI/ML models can be retrained either on Non-RT RIC framework or on rApp. If Non-RT RIC framework is hosting retraining, then rApp selects AI/ML model and initiate retraining on Non-RT RIC framework. See NOTE 1. |
| Step 15 (O) | Upon receiving retraining request from rApp. Non-RT RIC framework initiates AI/ML model retraining. |
| Step 16 (O) | rApp monitors retrained AI/ML model and retrieves retrained AI/ML model. See NOTE 2. |
| Step 17 (O) | If AI/ML model retraining is hosted by rApp then AI/ML model to be retrained on rApp itself. |
| Step 18 (O) | Once AI/ML model retraining is performed, AI/ML models are deployed and activated for inferencing for which rApp constantly monitors O1 and O2 related data. |
| Step 19 (M) | rApp identifies the requirement of fault recovery or maintenance of O-Cloud node and formulate policy/recommendations to drain, which can relocate network function to another O-Cloud node.  rApp can sent policy or recommendations to O2 related function (FOCOM) for O-Cloud node draining. rApp to include the necessary identifiers of the O-Clouds to be drained. See NOTE 3. |
| Step 20 (M) | Post receiving policy/recommendations for draining of O-Cloud node, O-Cloud to perform NF relocation (optionally) and drain O-Cloud node as specified in ORCH-USE-CASES [14], clause 3.12.2, then O2 related function (FOCOM) Informs rApp about NF relocation (optionally) and drain O-Cloud node R1 Interface. |
| Step 21 (M) | rApp monitors O1 and O2 PM, FM data from NF for any undesirable behaviour. |
| Ends when | If network function/E2 node becomes non-operational or when the operator disables the rApp. |
| Exceptions | N/A |
| Post Conditions | rApp continues close loop monitoring of O-Cloud node telemetry. |
| NOTE 1: AI/ML procedures mentioned here can be subject to change based on future work on AI/ML workflow in WG2. NOTE 2: AI/ML model retrieval procedure over R1 interface is for illustration purpose, can be subject to change based on future work on AI/ML workflow in WG2. NOTE 3: Identifiers mentioned above are not specified in the present document. |  |

- The workflow for Non-RT RIC based O-Cloud node draining is shown in figure 4.9.1.3-1.

#### 4.9.1.4 Required data

- This sub-clause contains the input and output data required for O-Cloud node drain.

##### 4.9.1.4.1 Input data

DMS telemetry data to understand state and health of network functions deployed on O-Cloud node.

IMS telemetry data to understand the state and health of O-Cloud nodes.

IMS/DMS inventory data to understand configuration of nodes and network functions deployments on O-Cloud nodes.

Monitoring data such as compute utilization, memory usage, availability of network function, performance of API responses from NF deployments, status of AAL logical processing unit, etc.

The measurement counters and KPIs (as defined by 3GPP and will be extended for O-RAN use cases) should be appropriately aggregated by cell, slice, etc.

E2 node KPIs such as availability of E2 node, accessibility KPIs, UEs connected, user traffic and alarms reported on interface level etc. to understand whether E2 nodes behaving as usual.

##### 4.9.1.4.2 Output data

- rApp to provide policy based guidance or trigger recommendations to drain O-Cloud node towards O2 related function (NFO/ FOCOM).

# 5 Requirements

## 5.1 Functional requirements

### 5.1.1 Non-RT RIC functional requirements

| REQ | Description | Note |
| --- | --- | --- |
| REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN1 | Non-RT RIC shall support data retrieval and analysis; the data can include performance, configuration or other data related to the application (recommended data shown in required data clause for different use cases). |  |
| REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN2 | Non-RT RIC shall support relevant AI/ML model training based on the data in [REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN1] for non-real-time optimization of configuration parameters in RAN or Near-RT RIC, as applicable for the use case. |  |
| REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN3 | Non-RT RIC shall support relevant AI/ML model training based on the data in [REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN1] for generating/optimizing policies and intents to guide the behavior of applications in Near-RT RIC or RAN, as applicable for the use case. |  |
| REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN4 | Non-RT RIC shall support training of relevant AI/ML models based on the data in [REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN1] to be deployed/updated in Near-RT RIC as required by the applications. |  |
| REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN5 | Non-RT RIC shall support performance monitoring and evaluation. |  |
| REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN6 | Non-RT RIC shall support a fallback mechanism to prevent drastic degradation/fluctuation of performance, e.g. to restore to the previous policy or configuration. |  |
| REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN7 | Non-RT RIC shall be able to produce enrichment information through data analysis. |  |
| REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN8 | Non-RT RIC shall be able to request O1 reconfiguration for non-real-time optimization of configuration parameters in E2 nodes and/or Near-RT RIC, as applicable for the use case. |  |
| REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN9 | Non-RT RIC shall support retrieval of external information as applicable for the use case. |  |

### 5.1.2 A1 interface functional requirements

| REQ | Description | Note |
| --- | --- | --- |
| REQ-A1-FUN1 | A1 interface shall support communication of policies from Non-RT RIC to Near-RT RIC. |  |
| REQ-A1-FUN2 | A1 interface shall support AI/ML model deployment and update from Non-RT RIC to Near-RT RIC. |  |
| REQ-A1-FUN3 | A1 interface shall support communication of enrichment information from Non-RT RIC to Near-RT RIC. |  |
| REQ-A1-FUN4 | A1 interface shall support feedback from Near-RT RIC for monitoring AI/ML model performance. |  |
| REQ-A1-FUN5 | A1 interface shall support the policy feedback from Near-RT RIC to Non-RT RIC. |  |

### 5.1.3 R1 interface functional requirements

| REQ | Description | Note |
| --- | --- | --- |
| REQ-R1-FUN1 | R1 interface shall support registration of services. | Based on REQ-nRTRfW-R1r-10 |
| REQ-R1-FUN2 | R1 interface shall support discovery of registered services. | Based on REQ-nRTRApp-R1r-30 |
| REQ-R1-FUN3 | R1 interface shall support authentication of rApp. | Based on REQ-nRTRfW-R1r-10 |
| REQ-R1-FUN4 | R1 interface shall support authorization of service request. | Based on REQ-nRTRfW-R1r-10 |
| REQ-R1-FUN5 | R1 interface shall support subscription and unsubscription of notifications for added/updated/removed registered services. | Based on REQ-nRTRfW-R1r-120 |
| REQ-R1-FUN6 | R1 interface shall support registration of data types. | Based on REQ-nRTRfW-R1r-30 |
| REQ-R1-FUN7 | R1 interface shall support subscription of data types. | Based on REQ-nRTRfW-R1r-30 |
| REQ-R1-FUN8 | R1 interface shall support A1 related services. |  |
| REQ-R1-FUN9 | R1 interface shall support O1 related services. |  |
| REQ-R1-FUN10 | R1 interface shall support O2 related services. |  |
| REQ-R1-FUN11 | R1 interface shall support AI/ML workflow services. |  |
| REQ-R1-FUN12 | R1 interface shall support services related to network slice subnets. | Please refer to Slicing Architecture [15] for details. |

## 5.2 Non-functional requirements

### 5.2.1 Non-RT RIC non-functional requirements

| REQ | Description | Note |
| --- | --- | --- |
| REQ-Non-RT-RIC-NON-FUN1 | Non-RT RIC shall not update the same policy or configuration parameter for a given Near-RT RIC or RAN function more often than once per second. |  |
| REQ-Non-RT-RIC-NON-FUN2 | Non-RT RIC shall be able to update policies in several Near-RT RICs. |  |

### 5.2.2 A1 interface non-functional requirements

| REQ | Description | Note |
| --- | --- | --- |
|  |  |  |

### 5.2.3 R1 interface non-functional requirements

| REQ | Description | Note |
| --- | --- | --- |
|  |  |  |


---

<!-- SOURCE: combined_oran_wg3.md -->
<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG3.E2TS-R003-v02.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG3.E2TS-R003-v02.00"
---

### E2AP Global Procedures

#### Test Cases for E2 Setup

##### E2 Setup (positive case)

The purpose of this test case is to test the E2 Setup procedure of the Near-RT RIC as specified in “O-RAN WG3: E2 Application Protocol” [2] clause 8.3.1. The expected outcome is successful establishment of the signaling connection between E2 Node and Near-RT RIC.

This testcase is mandatory if the DUT (Near-RT RIC) claims to support E2 Setup procedure.

At the Test Simulator check the E2 response recorded in step 2 of procedure.

The test is considered passed if following conditions are met:

#### Test Cases for RESET procedure

##### Reset procedure (initiated by E2 Node) (positive case)

The purpose of this test case is to test Reset procedure of E2AP the initiated by E2 Node as specified in “O-RAN WG3: E2 Application Protocol” [2] clause 8.3.2. The expected outcome is successful validation of RESET RESPONSE message from Near-RT RIC.

This testcase is mandatory if the DUT (Near-RT RIC) claims to support Reset procedure.

Step 1. Initiate the Reset procedure from Test Simulator to the DUT (Near-RT RIC) by sending RESET REQUEST message as specified in [2] clause 9.1.2.5 with information elements as specified in table below.

| IE Name | Reference | Configuration / Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | RESET REQUEST |
| Transaction ID | [2] 9.2.33 | INTEGER (0…255,..) |
| Cause | [2] 9.2.1 | Any valid cause |

Step 2. At the Test Simulator (E2 Node) the received and transmitted E2 messages are recorded.

Step 3. The Test Simulator does the following validation:

The received message is RESET RESPONSE as specified in [2] clause 9.1.2.6 and validated with information elements as specified in table below.

| IE Name | Reference | Presence | Validation |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | M | RESET RESPONSE |
| Transaction ID | [2] 9.2.33 | M | INTEGER (0…255,…) same as received in RESET REQUEST |
| Criticality Diagnostics | [2] 9.2.2 | O | Optional, if present check for valid information elements |

The test is considered passed if

- Validation in test procedure step 3 is successful.
- E2 logs recorded in the Test Simulator (E2 Node) are aligned with the message flow specified in [2] Figure 8.3.2.2-1

##### Reset procedure (initiated by Near-RT RIC) (positive case)

The purpose of this test case is to test Reset procedure of E2AP initiated by Near-RT RIC as specified in “O-RAN WG3: E2 Application Protocol” [2] clause 8.3.2. The expected outcome is successful validation of RESET REQUEST message from Near-RT RIC.

This testcase is mandatory if the DUT (Near-RT RIC) claims to support Reset procedure.

Step 1. Initiate appropriate action in DUT (Near-RT RIC) to trigger Reset procedure.

Step 2. At the Test Simulator (E2 Node) the received and transmitted E2 messages are recorded.

Step 3. The Test Simulator does the following validation:

The received message is RESET REQUEST as specified in [2] clause 9.1.2.5 and validated with information elements as specified in table below

| IE Name | Reference | Presence | Validation |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | M | RESET REQUEST |
| Transaction ID | [2] 9.2.33 | M | Valid Transaction ID, INTEGER (0…255,…) |
| Cause | [2] 9.2.1 | M | Valid Cause information element |

Step 4. If validation in step 3 is successful RESET RESPONSE message as specified in [2] clause 9.1.2.6 is sent to the DUT (Near-RT RIC) with parameters shown in table below

| IE Name | Reference | Configuration / Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | RESET RESPONSE |
| Transaction ID | [2] 9.2.33 | INTEGER (0…255,..) same as received in RESET REQUEST |
| Criticality Diagnostics | [2] 9.2.2 | Optional, not sent |

The test is considered passed if

#### Test Cases for Error Indication

##### Error Indication procedure

The purpose of this test case is to test the Error Indication procedure of the DUT (Near-RT RIC) as specified in “O-RAN WG3: E2 Application Protocol” [2] clause 8.2.4.4 and 8.3.3. The expected outcome is successful validation of ERROR INDICATION message from Near-RT RIC.

This testcase is conditional mandatory if DUT claims to support Error Indication procedure.

Step 1. Initiate appropriate actions in DUT (Near-RT RIC) to trigger RIC Control procedure to the agreed RAN Function.

Step 2. At the Test Simulator the received and transmitted E2 messages are recorded.

| IE/Group Name | Reference | Validation |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | RIC CONTROL REQUEST |
| RIC Request ID | [2] 9.2.7 | Valid RIC Request ID |
| RAN Function ID | [2] 9.2.8 | Same as the RAN Function ID indicated for the agreed RAN Function during E2 Setup procedure |
| RIC Call Process ID | [2] 9.2.18 | Not applicable.  This IE shall only be used when RIC CONTROL message is in response to RIC Subscription with RIC Action Type IE as "Insert" |
| RIC Control Header | [2] 9.2.20 | IEs defined in RAN Function specific E2 Service Model [4] [5] [6] |
| RIC Control Message | [2] 9.2.19 | IEs defined in RAN Function specific E2 Service Model [4] [5] [6] |
| RIC Control Ack Request | [2] 9.2.21 | Ack |

Step 4. Do not send RIC CONTROL ACKNOWLEDGE message specified in [2] clause 9.1.1.9 to DUT (Near-RT RIC) and wait until Timer TRICcontrol expires in DUT (Near-RT RIC)

Step 5. The Test Simulator does the following validation:

The received message from DUT (Near-RT RIC) is ERROR INDICATION message specified in [2] clause 9.1.2.1 with following values

| IE Name | Presence | Reference | Configuration / Value |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M | [2] 9.2.3 | ERROR INDICATION |
| Transaction ID | O | [2] 9.2.33 | INTEGER (0…255,..) Required if RIC Request ID IE is not present |
| RIC Request ID | O | [2] 9.2.7 | Required if Transaction ID IE is not present |
| RAN Function ID | O | [2] 9.2.8 | Same as the RAN Function ID indicated for the agreed RAN Function during E2 Setup procedure |
| Cause | O | [2] 9.2.1 | Valid Cause |
| Criticality Diagnostics | O | [2] 9.2.2 | Optional |

The test is considered passed if

#### Test Cases for RIC Service Update procedure

##### RIC Service Update procedure with RAN Function modified (positive case)

The purpose of this test case is to test the RIC Service Update procedure of the DUT (Near-RT RIC) as specified in “O-RAN WG3: E2 Application Protocol” [2] clause 8.3.4. This test is designed to be agnostic to the E2 Service Model and RAN functions supported by the Near-RT RIC. This test covers the scenario where a RAN Function is modified as part of the RIC Service Update procedure. The expected outcome is successful validation of the RIC SERVICE UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE message from Near-RT RIC.

This testcase is conditional mandatory if DUT claims support of RIC Service Update procedure.

Step 1. Initiate the RIC Service Update procedure from Test Simulator to the DUT (Near-RT RIC) by sending RIC SERVICE UPDATE message as specified in [2] clause 9.1.2.7 with information elements as specified in table below.

Table 5.2.1.4.1-1 Information elements in RIC SERVICE UPDATE message

| IE/Group Name | Reference | Configuration/Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | RIC SERVICE UPDATE |
| Transaction ID | [2] 9.2.33 | INTEGER (0…255,…) |
| RAN Functions Modified List |  |  |
| >RAN Function Item |  |  |
| >>RAN Function ID | [2] 9.2.8 | INTEGER (1…4095) same as the one used in E2 Setup procedure |
| >>RAN Function Definition | [2] 9.2.23 | Valid RAN Function Definition as defined in the corresponding E2 Service Model [3] but different from the one used in E2 Setup procedure and supported by Near-RT RIC |
| >>RAN Function Revision | [2] 9.2.24 | Valid RAN Function Revision, INTEGER (0…4095) but different from the one used in E2 Setup procedure |
| >>RAN Function OID | [2] 9.2.31 | Valid RAN Function OID as specified in the corresponding E2 Service Model [3] |

Step 2. At the Test Simulator (E2 Node) the received and transmitted E2 messages are recorded.

Step 3. The Test Simulator does the following validation:

The received message is RIC SERVICE UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE as specified in [2] clause 9.1.2.8 and validated with information elements as specified in table below. The RAN Function ID sent in RIC SERVICE UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE being in Accepted List.

| IE/Group Name | Reference | Presence | Validation |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | M | RIC SERVICE UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE |
| Transaction ID | [2] 9.2.33 | M | INTEGER (0…255,..) Same as in RIC SERVICE UPDATE message |
| RAN Functions Accepted List |  | RAN Function modified has been accepted |  |
| >RAN Function ID Item |  |  |  |
| >>RAN Function ID | [2] 9.2.8 | M | INTEGER (1…4095) Same as in RIC SERVICE UPDATE message |
| >>RAN Function Revision | [2] 9.2.24 | M | INTEGER (0…4095) Same as in RIC SERVICE UPDATE message |

The test is considered passed if

##### RIC Service Update procedure with RAN Function deleted (positive case)

The purpose of this test case is to test the RIC Service Update procedure of the DUT (Near-RT RIC) as specified in “O-RAN WG3: E2 Application Protocol” [2] clause 8.3.4. This test is designed to be agnostic to the E2 Service Model and RAN functions supported by the Near-RT RIC. This test covers the scenario where a RAN Function is deleted as part of the RIC Service Update procedure. The expected outcome is successful validation of the RIC SERVICE UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE message from Near-RT RIC.

This testcase is conditional mandatory if DUT claims support of RIC Service Update procedure.

Step 1. Initiate a new RIC Service Update procedure from Test Simulator to the DUT (Near-RT RIC) by sending RIC SERVICE UPDATE message as specified in [2] clause 9.1.2.7 with information elements as specified in the table below.

| IE/Group Name | Reference | Configuration/Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | RIC SERVICE UPDATE |
| Transaction ID | [2] 9.2.33 | INTEGER (0…255,…) |
| RAN Functions Deleted List |  |  |
| >RAN Function Item |  |  |
| >>RAN Function ID | [2] 9.2.8 | INTEGER (1…4095) same as the one used in E2 Setup procedure |
| >>RAN Function Revision | [2] 9.2.24 | INTEGER (0…4095) same as the one used in E2 Setup procedure |

Step 2. At the Test Simulator (E2 Node) the received and transmitted E2 messages are recorded.

Step 3. The Test Simulator does the following validation:

The received message is RIC SERVICE UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE as specified in [2] clause 9.1.2.8 and validated with information elements as specified in table below. The RAN Function ID sent in RIC SERVICE UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE being in Accepted List.

| IE/Group Name | Reference | Presence | Validation |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | M | RIC SERVICE UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE |
| Transaction ID | [2] 9.2.33 | M | INTEGER (0…255,..) Same as in RIC SERVICE UPDATE message |
| RAN Functions Accepted List |  | RAN Function modified has been accepted |  |
| >RAN Function ID Item |  |  |  |
| >>RAN Function ID | [2] 9.2.8 | M | INTEGER (1…4095) Same as in RIC SERVICE UPDATE message |
| >>RAN Function Revision | [2] 9.2.24 | M | INTEGER (0…4095) Same as in RIC SERVICE UPDATE message |

The test is considered passed if

1) Validation in test procedure steps 3 is successful.

2)  E2 logs recorded in the Test Simulator (E2 Node) are aligned with the message flow specified in [2] figure 8.3.4.2-1.

##### RIC Service Update procedure with RAN Function added (positive case)

The purpose of this test case is to test the RIC Service Update procedure of the DUT (Near-RT RIC) as specified in “O-RAN WG3: E2 Application Protocol” [2] clause 8.3.4. This test is designed to be agnostic to the E2 Service Model and RAN functions supported by the Near-RT RIC. This test covers the scenario where a RAN Function is added as part of the RIC Service Update procedure. The expected outcome is successful validation of the RIC SERVICE UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE message from Near-RT RIC.

This testcase is conditional mandatory if DUT claims support of RIC Service Update procedure.

Step 1. Initiate a new RIC Service Update procedure from Test Simulator to the DUT (Near-RT RIC) by sending RIC SERVICE UPDATE message as specified in [2] clause 9.1.2.7 with information elements as specified in the table below

Table 5.2.1.4.3-1 Information elements in RIC SERVICE UPDATE message

| IE/Group Name | Reference | Configuration/Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | RIC SERVICE UPDATE |
| Transaction ID | [2] 9.2.33 | INTEGER (0…255,…) |
| RAN Functions Added List |  |  |
| >RAN Function Item |  |  |
| >>RAN Function ID | [2] 9.2.8 | Valid RAN Function Id that doesn’t exist in the DUT (Near-RT RIC), INTEGER (1…4095) |
| >>RAN Function Definition | [2] 9.2.23 | Valid RAN Function Definition for a RAN Function doesn’t exist in the DUT (Near-RT RIC) as defined in the corresponding E2 Service Model [3] and supported by Near-RT RIC. |
| >>RAN Function Revision | [2] 9.2.24 | Valid RAN Function Revision, INTEGER (0…4095) |
| >>RAN Function OID | [2] 9.2.31 | Valid RAN Function OID as specified in the corresponding E2 Service Model [3] |

Step 2. At the Test Simulator (E2 Node) the received and transmitted E2 messages are recorded.

Step 3. The Test Simulator does the following validation:

The received message is RIC SERVICE UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE as specified in [2] clause 9.1.2.8 and validated with information elements as specified in table below. The RAN Function ID sent in RIC SERVICE UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE in Accepted List.

| IE/Group Name | Reference | Presence | Validation |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | M | RIC SERVICE UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE |
| Transaction ID | [2] 9.2.33 | M | INTEGER (0…255,..) Same as in RIC SERVICE UPDATE message |
| RAN Functions Accepted List |  | RAN Function modified has been accepted |  |
| >RAN Function ID Item |  |  |  |
| >>RAN Function ID | [2] 9.2.8 | M | INTEGER (1…4095) Same as in RIC SERVICE UPDATE message |
| >>RAN Function Revision | [2] 9.2.24 | M | INTEGER (0…4095) Same as in RIC SERVICE UPDATE message |

The test is considered passed if

#### Test Cases for E2 Node Configuration Update procedure

##### E2 Node Configuration Update procedure with E2 Node configuration added (positive)

Step 1. Initiate the E2 Node Configuration Update procedure from Test Simulator to the DUT (Near-RT RIC) by sending E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE message as specified in [2] clause 9.1.2.11 with information elements for a E2 Node component addition shown in example table below.

| IE / Message value | Reference | Configuration / Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE |
| Transaction ID | [2] 9.2.33 | INTEGER (0..255, …) any valid value. |
| E2 Node Component Configuration Addition List | List with one item as specified below |  |
| >E2 Node Component Configuration Addition Item | List with one item as specified below |  |
| >>E2 Node Component Interface Type | [2] 9.2.26 | ENUMERATED (ng, xn, e1, f1, w1, s1, x2,  …)  Interface Type = “f1” used as a valid example |
| >>E2 Node Component ID | [2] 9.2.32 | Valid gNB-DU ID |
| >>E2 Node Component Configuration | [2] 9.2.27 | OCTECT STRINGs  representing F1 SETUP REQUEST and F1 SETUP RESPONSE for the added F1 interface |

Step 3. The Test Simulator does the following validation:

The received message is E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE as specified in [2] clause 9.1.2.12 and validated with the information elements specified in table below.

| IE Name | Reference | Presence | Validation |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | M | E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE |
| Transaction ID | [2] 9.2.33 | M | INTEGER (0…255,…) same as in E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE |
| E2 Node Component Configuration Addition Acknowledge List |  | M |  |
| >E2 Node Component Configuration Addition Acknowledge Item |  | M |  |
| >>E2 Node Component Interface Type | [2] 9.2.26 | M | Interface Type = “f1” same as in E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE |
| >>E2 Node Component ID | [2] 9.2.32 | M | gNB-DU ID same as in E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE |
| >>E2 Node Component Configuration Acknowledge | [2] 9.2.28 | M | Success or failure with Cause |

The test is considered passed if

##### E2 Node Configuration Update procedure with E2 Node configuration updated (positive)

Step 1. Initiate the E2 Node Configuration Update procedure from Test Simulator to the DUT (Near-RT RIC) by sending E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE message as specified in [2] clause 9.1.2.11 with information elements for an E2 Node component updated as shown in example table below.

| IE / Message value | Reference | Configuration / Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE |
| Transaction ID | [2] 9.2.33 | INTEGER (0..255, …) any valid value. |
| E2 Node Component Configuration Update  List | List with one item as specified below |  |
| >E2 Node Component Configuration Update Item | List with one item as specified below |  |
| >>E2 Node Component Interface Type | [2] 9.2.26 | ENUMERATED (ng, xn, e1, f1, w1, s1, x2,  …)  Interface Type = “f1” used as a valid example |
| >>E2 Node Component ID | [2] 9.2.32 | Use gNB-DU ID of the existing E2 Node intended to be updated |
| >>E2 Node Component Configuration | [2] 9.2.27 | OCTECT STRINGs  representing F1 SETUP REQUEST and F1 SETUP RESPONSE with updated information. |

Step 3. The Test Simulator does the following validation:

The received message is E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE as specified in [2] clause 9.1.2.12 and validated with information elements specified in table below.

| IE Name | Reference | Presence | Validation |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | M | E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE |
| Transaction ID | [2] 9.2.33 | M | INTEGER (0…255,…) same as in E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE |
| E2 Node Component Configuration Update Acknowledge List |  | M |  |
| >E2 Node Component Configuration Update Acknowledge Item |  | M |  |
| >>E2 Node Component Interface Type | [2] 9.2.26 | M | Interface Type = “f1” same as in E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE |
| >>E2 Node Component ID | [2] 9.2.32 | M | gNB-DU ID same as in E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE |
| >>E2 Node Component Configuration Acknowledge | [2] 9.2.28 | M | Success or failure with Cause |

The test is considered passed if

- Validations in test procedure Step 3.

##### E2 Node Configuration Update procedure with E2 Node configuration removed (positive)

Step 1. Initiate the E2 Node Configuration Update procedure from Test Simulator to the DUT (Near-RT RIC) by sending E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE message as specified in [2] clause 9.1.2.11 with information elements for an E2 Node component removed as shown in example table below.

| IE / Message value | Reference | Configuration / Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE |
| Transaction ID | [2] 9.2.33 | INTEGER (0..255, …) any valid value. |
| E2 Node Component Configuration Removal  List | List with one item as specified below |  |
| >E2 Node Component Configuration Removal Item | List with one item as specified below |  |
| >>E2 Node Component Interface Type | [2] 9.2.26 | ENUMERATED (ng, xn, e1, f1, w1, s1, x2,  …)  Interface Type = “f1” used as a valid example |
| >>E2 Node Component ID | [2] 9.2.32 | Use gNB-DU ID of the existing E2 Node intended to be updated |
|  |  |  |

Step 3. The Test Simulator does the following validation:

The received message is E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE as specified in [2] clause 9.1.2.12 and validated with the information elements specified in table below.

| IE Name | Reference | Presence | Validation |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | M | E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE |
| Transaction ID | [2] 9.2.33 | M | INTEGER (0…255,…) same as received in E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE |
| E2 Node Component Configuration Removal Acknowledge List |  | M |  |
| >E2 Node Component Configuration Removal Acknowledge Item |  | M |  |
| >>E2 Node Component Interface Type | [2] 9.2.26 | M | Interface Type = “f1” same as in E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE |
| >>E2 Node Component ID | [2] 9.2.32 | M | gNB-DU ID same as in E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE |
| >>E2 Node Component Configuration Acknowledge | [2] 9.2.28 | M | Success or failure with Cause |

The test is considered passed if

#### Test Cases for E2 Connection Update procedure

##### E2 Connection Update procedure with TNL Association added (positive case)

The purpose of this test case is to test the E2 Connection Update procedure of the DUT (Near-RT RIC) as specified in “O-RAN WG3: E2 Application Protocol” [2] clause 8.3.6. The expected outcome is successful validation of the E2 CONNECTION UPDATE message from Near-RT RIC and establishment of a new TNL Association.

This testcase is conditional mandatory if DUT claims support E2 Connection Update procedure and multiple TNLAs over E2.

Step 1. Initiate appropriate action in DUT (Near-RT RIC) to trigger E2 Connection Update procedure for addition of a new TNL Association.

Step 2. At the Test Simulator (E2 Node) the received, transmitted E2 messages and SCTP Transport level messages are recorded.

Step 3. The Test Simulator does the following validation:

The received message is E2 CONNECTION UPDATE as specified in [2] clause 9.1.2.14 and validated with information elements as specified in table below.

| IE Name | Reference | Presence | Validation |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | M | E2 CONNECTION UPDATE |
| Transaction ID | [2] 9.2.33 | M | Valid Transaction ID, INTEGER (0…255,..) |
| E2 Connection To Add List |  |  |  |
| >E2 Connection to Add Item IEs |  | One item |  |
| >>Transport Layer Information | [2] 9.2.29 | M | Valid Transport Layer Information, BIT STRING for Transport Layer Address (Mandatory, SIZE(1…160,…)) and Transport Layer Port (Optional, SIZE(16) )  Different from transport layer information used in initial SCTP association |
| >>TNL Association Usage | [2] 9.2.30 | M | Valid TNL Association Usage, ENUMERATED (ric service, support functions, both,..) |

Step 4. The Test Simulator (E2 Node) initiates and establishes a new SCTP connection towards the Transport Layer Information (address and port) provided in E2 CONNECTION UPDATE message.

Step 5. Based on SCTP Transport Level messages recoded, the Test Simulator (E2 Node) validates the SCTP establishment in Step 4.

Step 6. If validation in steps 3 and 5 are successful, E2 CONNECTION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE message as specified in [2] clause 9.1.2.15 is sent to DUT (Near-RT RIC) with parameters shown in table below.

| IE/Group Name | Reference | Configuration/Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | E2 CONNECTION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE |
| Transaction ID | [2] 9.2.33 | INTEGER (0…255,…) same as in E2 CONNECTION UPDATE message |
| E2 Connection Setup List |  |  |
| >E2 Connection Setup Item IEs |  |  |
| >>Transport Layer Information | [2] 9.2.29 | Same BIT STRING as in  E2 CONNECTION UPDATE message |
| >>TNL Association Usage | [2] 9.2.30 | Same TNL Association Usage, , ENUMERATED (ric service, support functions, both,..), as in E2 CONNECTION UPDATE message |

Step 7. The Test Simulator (E2 Node) triggers E2 Node Configuration Update procedure on the new TNL Association. Validation of the E2 Node Configuration Update procedure is out of the scope of this test and can be referred in clause 5.2.1.5.3.

The test is considered passed if

#### Test Cases for E2 Removal procedure

##### E2 Removal procedure initiated by E2 Node (positive case)

This testcase is mandatory if the DUT (Near-RT RIC) claims to support E2 Removal procedure.

Step 1. Initiate the E2 Removal procedure from Test Simulator (E2 Node) to the DUT (Near-RT RIC) by sending E2 REMOVAL REQUEST message as specified in [2] clause 9.1.1.17 with information elements as specified in table below.

| IE/Group Name | Reference | Configuration / Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | 9.2.3 | REMOVAL REQUEST |
| Transaction ID | 9.2.33 | INTEGER (0..255, …) |

Step 2. At the Test Simulator (E2 Node) the transmitted, received E2 messages and SCTP Transport level messages are recorded.

Step 3. The Test Simulator does the following validation:

- The received message is E2 REMOVAL RESPONSE as specified in [2] clause 9.2.1.18 and validated with information elements are as specified in table below:

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Reference | Validation |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M | 9.2.3 |  |
| Transaction ID | M | 9.2.33 | INTEGER (0..255, …) Same value as the one in REMOVAL REQUEST. |
| Criticality Diagnostics | O | 9.2.2 | Will not be used in this test |

Step 4. Based on SCTP Transport level messages recorded in Step 2 validate that the DUT (Near-RT RIC) successfully acknowledge the termination of the SCTP connection initiated by the Test Simulator (E2 Node) and sends SHUTDOWN_ACK message

The test is considered passed if

##### E2 Removal procedure initiated by Near-RT RIC (positive case)

This testcase is mandatory if the DUT (E2 Node) claims to support E2 Removal procedure.

Step 1. Initiate appropriate action in DUT (Near-RT RIC) to trigger E2 Removal procedure.

Step 2. At the Test Simulator (E2 Node) the transmitted, received E2 messages and SCTP Transport level messages are recorded.

Step 3. The Test Simulator (E2 Node) does the following validation:

- The received message is E2 REMOVAL REQUEST as specified in [2] clause 9.1.1.17 and validated with information elements as specified in table below:

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Reference | Configuration / Value |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M | 9.2.3 | REMOVAL REQUEST |
| Transaction ID | M | 9.2.33 | INTEGER (0..255, …) |

Step 4. If validation in step 3 is successful, E2 REMOVAL RESPONSE message as specified in [2] clause 9.1.1.18 is sent to the DUT (Near-RT RIC) with parameters shown in table below

| IE/Group Name | Reference | Validation |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | 9.2.3 |  |
| Transaction ID | 9.2.33 | INTEGER (0..255, …) Same value as the one in REMOVAL REQUEST. |
| Criticality Diagnostics | 9.2.2 | Will not be used in this test |

Step 5. Based on SCTP Transport level messages recorded in Step 2 validate that the DUT (Near-RT RIC) initiates and complete the termination of the SCTP connection by sending the SHUTDOWN_COMPLETE message

The test is considered passed if

### E2AP Functional Procedures

#### Test Cases for RIC Subscription procedure

##### RIC Subscription procedure for single RIC action (positive)

This testcase is mandatory if the DUT claims to support E2AP RIC Subscription procedure.

| IE Name | Reference | Configuration / Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| RAN Function Name | [5] 8.3.1 |  |
| >RAN Function Short Name | [5] 8.3.1 | ORAN-E2SM-KPM |
| >RAN Function Service Model OID | [5] 8.3.1 | 1.3.6.1.4.1.53148.1.2.2 |
| > RAN Function Description | [5] 8.3.1 | KPM Monitor |
| Sequence of Event Trigger styles |  |  |
| >RIC Event Trigger Style Type | [5] 8.3.3 | 1 |
| >RIC Event Trigger Style Name | [5] 8.3.4 | Periodic Report |
| >RIC Event Trigger Format Type | [5] 8.3.5 | 1 |
| Sequence of Report styles |  |  |
| > RIC Report Style Type | [5] 8.3.3 | 1 |
| > RIC Report Style Name | [5] 8.3.4 | E2 Node Measurement |
| > RIC Report Action Format Type | [5] 8.3.5 | 1 |
| > Sequence of Measurement Info for Action |  |  |
| >> Measurement Type Name | [5]8.3.9 | Name of one Measurement agreed for this test |
| >RIC Indication Header Format | [5] 8.3.5 | 1 |
| >RIC Indication Message Format | [5] 8.3.5 | 1 |

| IE/Group Name | Reference | Validation |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.1.1.1 | RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST |
| RIC Request ID | [2] 9.1.1.1 | Valid RIC Request ID |
| RAN Function ID | [2] 9.2.8 | Should be same as RAN Function ID indicated for the agreed RAN Function during E2 Setup procedure |
| RIC Subscription Details |  |  |
| >RIC Event Trigger Definition | [2] 9.2.9 | Validation for IEs defined in RAN Function specific E2 Service Model [4] [5] [6] is outside the scope of this test. |
| >Sequence of Actions |  |  |
| >>RIC Action ID | [2] 9.2.10 | Valid RIC Action ID, INTEGER (0..255) |
| >>RIC Action Type | [2] 9.2.11 | Valid RIC Action Type, ENUMERATED (Insert, Report, Policy, …) |
| >>RIC Action Definition | [2] 9.2.12 | Validation for IEs defined in RAN Function specific E2 Service Model [4] [5] [6] is outside the scope of this test. |

Table 5.2.2.1.1-3 Parameters in RIC SUBSCRIPTION RESPONSE message

| IE/Group Name | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | RIC SUBSCRIPTION RESPONSE |
| RIC Request ID | [2] 9.2.7 | Received RIC Request ID |
| RAN Function ID | [2] 9.2.8 | Received RAN Function ID |
| RIC Actions Admitted List |  |  |
| >RIC Action ID | [2] 9.2.10 | Received Action ID requested included in RIC Actions Admitted List IE. |

The test is considered passed if

#### Test Cases for RIC Subscription Delete

##### RIC Subscription Delete procedure (positive)

| Name | Reference | Configuration / Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| RAN Function Name | [5] 8.3.1 |  |
| >RAN Function Short Name | [5] 8.3.1 | ORAN-E2SM-KPM |
| >RAN Function Service Model OID | [5] 8.3.1 | 1.3.6.1.4.1.53148.1.2.2 |
| > RAN Function Description | [5] 8.3.1 | KPM Monitor |

| IE/Group Name | Reference | Validation |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | RIC SUBSCRIPTION DELETE REQUEST |
| RIC Request ID | [2] 9.2.7 | Valid RIC Request ID |
| RAN Function ID | [2] 9.2.8 | Should be same as RAN Function ID indicated for the agreed RAN Function during E2 Setup procedure |

| IE/Group Name | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | RIC SUBSCRIPTION DELETE RESPONSE |
| RIC Request ID | [2] 9.2.7 | Received RIC Request ID |
| RAN Function ID | [2] 9.2.8 | Received RAN Function ID |

The test is considered passed if

- Validation in test procedure step 3 is successful.
- Step 2 E2 logs recorded in the Test Simulator (E2 Node) are aligned with the message flow specified in “O-RAN WG3: E2 Application Protocol” [2] clause 8.2.2.2

#### Test Cases for RIC Subscription Delete Required procedure

##### RIC Subscription Delete Required procedure (positive)

| IE Name | Reference | Configuration / Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| RAN Function Name | [5] 8.3.1 |  |
| >RAN Function Short Name | [5] 8.3.1 | ORAN-E2SM-KPM |
| >RAN Function Service Model OID | [5] 8.3.1 | 1.3.6.1.4.1.53148.1.2.2 |
| > RAN Function Description | [5] 8.3.1 | KPM Monitor |

Step 1. Initiate the RIC Subscription Delete Required procedure from Test Simulator to the DUT (Near-RT RIC) by sending RIC SUBSCRIPTION DELETE REQUIRED  message as specified in [2] clause 9.1.1.6A with information elements as specified in table below.

| IE / Message value | Reference | Configuration / Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | RIC SUBSCRIPTION DELETE REQUIRED |
| List of RIC Subscriptions To Be Removed |  | One item |
| RIC Request ID | [2] 9.2.7 | Should be same as the RIC Request ID used during subscription procedure |
| RAN Function ID | [2] 9.2.8 | Should be same as RAN Function ID used during subscription |
| Cause | [2] 9.2.1 | Any valid cause |

#### Test Cases for RIC Indication procedure

##### RIC Indication procedure for REPORT Service (positive)

The purpose of this test case is to test the RIC Indication procedure of Near-RT RIC as specified in [2] clause 8.2.3. This test is designed to be agnostic to the E2 Service Model and RAN functions. The RAN Function and RAN Function definition to which RIC Subscribes are predefined between the DUT (Near-RT RIC) and the Test Simulator (E2 Node). The expected outcome of this test is successful reception of the RIC INDICATION message associated with a REPORT Service from the E2 Node.

This testcase is mandatory if the DUT (Near-RT RIC) claims to support E2AP RIC Indication procedure.

| IE/Group Name | Reference | Configuration/ Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | RIC INDICATION |
| RIC Request ID | [2] 9.2.7 | Same as the RIC Request ID received in the corresponding RIC subscription procedure |
| RAN Function ID | [2] 9.2.8 | Same as the RAN Function ID indicated for the agreed RAN Function during E2 Setup procedure |
| RIC Action ID | [2] 9.2.10 | Same as the RIC Action ID received in the corresponding RIC subscription procedure |
| RIC Indication SN | [2] 9.2.14 | Not used.  Sequence Number is optional and not used in this test case |
| RIC Indication Type | [2] 9.2.15 | Report |
| RIC Indication Header | [2] 9.2.17 | IEs defined in RAN Function specific E2 Service Model [4] [5] [6] is outside the scope of this test. |
| RIC Indication Message | [2] 9.2.16 | IEs defined in RAN Function specific E2 Service Model [4] [5] [6] is outside the scope of this test. |
| RIC Call process ID | [2] 9.2.18 | Not applicable.  This IE shall only be used when RIC INDICATION message is in response to RIC Subscription with RIC Action Type IE as "Insert" |

The test is considered passed if

#### Test Cases for RIC Control procedure

##### RIC Control procedure for CONTROL Service (positive)

The purpose of this test case is to test the RIC Control procedure of Near-RT RIC as specified in [2] clause 8.2.4. This test is designed to be agnostic to the E2 Service Model and RAN functions. The RAN Function and RAN Function definition to which RIC Subscribes are predefined between the DUT (Near-RT RIC) and the Test Simulator (E2 Node). The expected outcome of this test is successful RIC Control procedure from Near-RT RIC to the E2 Node.

This testcase is mandatory if the DUT (Near-RT RIC) claims to support E2AP RIC Control procedure.

| IE/Group Name | Reference | Presence | Validation |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | M | RIC CONTROL REQUEST |
| RIC Request ID | [2] 9.2.7 | M | Valid RIC Request ID |
| RAN Function ID | [2] 9.2.8 | M | Same as the RAN Function ID indicated for the agreed RAN Function during E2 Setup procedure |
| RIC Call Process ID | [2] 9.2.18 | O | Not applicable.  This IE shall only be used when RIC CONTROL message is in response to RIC Subscription with RIC Action Type IE as "Insert" |
| RIC Control Header | [2] 9.2.20 | M | IEs defined in RAN Function specific E2 Service Model [4] [5] [6] |
| RIC Control Message | [2] 9.2.19 | M | IEs defined in RAN Function specific E2 Service Model [4] [5] [6] |
| RIC Control Ack Request | [2] 9.2.21 | O | Ack |

| IE/Group Name | Reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | RIC CONTROL ACKNOWLEDGE |
| RIC Request ID | [2] 9.2.7 | Received RIC Request ID in RIC CONTROL REQUEST |
| RAN Function ID | [2] 9.2.8 | Same as the RAN Function ID indicated for the agreed RAN Function during E2 Setup procedure |
| RIC Call process ID | [2] 9.2.18 | Not applicable.  This IE shall only be used when RIC CONTROL REQUEST message is in response to RIC Subscription with RIC Action Type IE as "Insert" |
| RIC Control Outcome | [2] 9.2.25 | Not used |

The test is considered passed if

### E2AP Functional Procedures for E2SM-KPM

#### Test Cases for RIC Subscription E2SM-KPM

##### RIC Subscription procedure with REPORT Service Style 1, Single Action Format Type 1 (positive)

The purpose of this test case is to test the RIC Subscription procedure to RAN function “O-RAN-E2SM-KPM” Report Style 1 as specified in [5] clause 7.4.1 The expected outcome is successful RIC Subscription by Near-RT RIC.

This testcase is conditional mandatory if the DUT claims to support RIC Subscription procedure for RAN function “O-RAN-E2SM-KPM” Report Style 1 and Action Format Type 1.

| IE Name | Reference | Configuration / Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| RAN Function Name | [5] 8.3.1 |  |
| >RAN Function Short Name | [5] 8.3.1 | ORAN-E2SM-KPM |
| >RAN Function Service Model OID | [5] 8.3.1 | 1.3.6.1.4.1.53148.1.2.2 |
| > RAN Function Description | [5] 8.3.1 | KPM Monitor |
| Sequence of Event Trigger styles |  |  |
| >RIC Event Trigger Style Type | [5] 8.3.3 | 1 |
| >RIC Event Trigger Style Name | [5] 8.3.4 | Periodic Report |
| >RIC Event Trigger Format Type | [5] 8.3.5 | 1 |
| Sequence of Report styles |  |  |
| > RIC Report Style Type | [5] 8.3.3 | 1 |
| > RIC Report Style Name | [5] 8.3.4 | E2 Node Measurement |
| > RIC Report Action Format Type | [5] 8.3.5 | 1 |
| > Sequence of Measurement Info for Action |  |  |
| >> Measurement Type Name | [5] 8.3.9 | Name of one Measurement agreed for this test |
| >RIC Indication Header Format | [5] 8.3.5 | 1 |
| >RIC Indication Message Format | [5] 8.3.5 | 1 |

- DUT (Near-RT RIC) has functionality to trigger subscription to RAN function “O-RAN-E2SM-KPM” Report Style 1, for the agreed measurement information.

| E2SM-KPM IE/Group Name | Reference | Validation |
| --- | --- | --- |
| RIC Action Definition IE | [5] 8.2.1.2 |  |
| >RIC Style Type | [5] 8.2.1.2 | 1 |
| >> E2SM-KPM Action Definition Format1 | [5] 8.2.1.2.1 |  |
| >>> Measurement Name | [5] 8.3.9 | Name of one Measurement agreed for this test |
| >>> Measurement ID | [5] 8.3.10 | Valid ID |
| >>Label Information | [5] 8.3.11 | No Label |
| >>Granularity Period | [5] 8.3.8 | (1..4294967295) |
| RIC Event Trigger Definition IE | [5] 8.2.1.1 |  |
| >> E2SM-KPM Event Trigger Definition Format 1 | [5] 8.2.1.1.1 |  |
| >> Reporting Period | [5] 8.2.1.1.1 | (1..4294967295) |

.

The same expected results specified in clause 5.2.2.1.1.3.3 applies with the additional validation in step 2 above.

##### RIC Subscription procedure with REPORT Service Style 2, Single Action Format Type 2 (positive)

The purpose of this test case is to test the RIC Subscription procedure with RAN function “O-RAN-E2SM-KPM” Report Style 2 as specified in [5] clause 7.4.3. The expected outcome is successful RIC Subscription by Near-RT RIC.

This testcase is conditional mandatory if the DUT claims to support RIC Subscription procedure for RAN function “O-RAN-E2SM-KPM” Report Style 2.

| IE Name | Reference | Configuration / Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| RAN Function Name | [5] 8.3.1 |  |
| >RAN Function Short Name | [5] 8.3.1 | ORAN-E2SM-KPM |
| >RAN Function Service Model OID | [5] 8.3.1 | 1.3.6.1.4.1.53148.1.1.2.2 |
| > RAN Function Description | [5] 8.3.1 | KPM Monitor |
| Sequence of Event Trigger styles |  |  |
| >RIC Event Trigger Style Type | [5] 8.3.3 | 1 |
| >RIC Event Trigger Style Name | [5] 8.3.4 | Periodic Report |
| >RIC Event Trigger Format Type | [5] 8.3.5 | 1 |
| Sequence of Report styles |  |  |
| > RIC Report Style Type | [5] 8.3.3 | 2 |
| > RIC Report Style Name | [5] 8.3.4 | E2 Node Measurement for a single UE |
| > RIC Report Action Format Type | [5] 8.3.5 | 2 |
| > Sequence of Measurement Info for Action |  |  |
| >> Measurement Type Name | [5] 8.3.9 | Name of one Measurement agreed for this test |
| >RIC Indication Header Format | [5] 8.3.5 | 1 |
| >RIC Indication Message Format | [5] 8.3.5 | 1 |

- DUT (Near-RT RIC) has functionality to trigger subscription to RAN function “O-RAN-E2SM-KPM” Report Style 2, for the agreed measurement information.

| E2SM-KPM IE/Group Name | Reference | Validation |
| --- | --- | --- |
| RIC Action Definition IE | [5] 8.2.1.2 |  |
| >RIC Style Type | [5] 8.2.1.2 |  |
| >> E2SM-KPM Action Definition Format2 | [5] 8.2.1.2.2 |  |
| >>>UE ID | [5] 8.3.24 | Valid UE ID pointing to a specific UE of interest |
| >>>>> Measurement Name | [5] 8.3.9 | Name of one Measurement agreed for this test |
| >>>>> Measurement ID | [5] 8.3.10 | (1.. 65535) |
| >>>>> Label Information | [5] 8.3.11 | No Label |
| >>>> Granularity Period | [5] 8.3.8 | Use the same value as Reporting Period |
| >>>> Cell Global ID | [5] 8.3.20 | Not used |
| RIC Event Trigger Definition IE | [5] 8.2.1.1 |  |
| > E2SM-KPM Event Trigger Definition Format 1 | [5] 8.2.1.1.1 |  |
| >> Reporting Period | [5] 8.2.1.1.1 | (1..4294967295) |

The same expected results specified in clause 5.2.2.1.1.3.3 applies with the additional validation in 5.2.3.1.2.3.2 Step 2.

##### RIC Subscription procedure with REPORT Service Style 1, Single Action Format Type 1 (negative)

The purpose of this test case is to test the RIC Subscription procedure to RAN function “O-RAN-E2SM-KPM” Report Style 1 as specified in [5] clause 7.4.1 The expected outcome is that Near-RT RIC can receive and process unsuccessful RIC Subscription from E2 node.

This testcase is conditional mandatory if the DUT claims to support unsuccessful operation of RIC Subscription procedure for RAN function “O-RAN-E2SM-KPM” Report Style 1 and Action Format Type 1.

| IE Name | Reference | Configuration / Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| RAN Function Name | [5] 8.3.1 |  |
| >RAN Function Short Name | [5] 8.3.1 | ORAN-E2SM-KPM |
| >RAN Function Service Model OID | [5] 8.3.1 | 1.3.6.1.4.1.53148.1.2.2 |
| > RAN Function Description | [5] 8.3.1 | KPM Monitor |
| Sequence of Event Trigger styles |  |  |
| >RIC Event Trigger Style Type | [5] 8.3.3 | 1 |
| >RIC Event Trigger Style Name | [5] 8.3.4 | Periodic Report |
| >RIC Event Trigger Format Type | [5] 8.3.5 | 1 |
| Sequence of Report styles |  |  |
| > RIC Report Style Type | [5] 8.3.3 | 1 |
| > RIC Report Style Name | [5] 8.3.4 | E2 Node Measurement |
| > RIC Report Action Format Type | [5] 8.3.5 | 1 |
| > Sequence of Measurement Info for Action |  |  |
| >> Measurement Type Name | [5] 8.3.9 | Name of one Measurement agreed for this test |
| >> Measurement Type ID | [5] 8.3.10 | Optional IE; Test Simulator may configure this IE with one Measurement Type Name |
| >RIC Indication Header Format | [5] 8.3.5 | 1 |
| >RIC Indication Message Format | [5] 8.3.5 | 1 |

- DUT (Near-RT RIC) has functionality to trigger subscription to RAN function “O-RAN-E2SM-KPM” Report Style 1, for the agreed measurement information.

| E2SM-KPM IE/Group Name | Reference | Validation |
| --- | --- | --- |
| RIC Action Definition IE | [5] 8.2.1.2 |  |
| >RIC Style Type | [5] 8.2.1.2 | 1 |
| >> E2SM-KPM Action Definition Format1 | [5] 8.2.1.2.1 |  |
| >>>CHOICE Measurement Type |  | Select one item of the two parameters below to subscribe if “Measurement ID” is configured during E2 Setup procedure; Otherwise configure “Measurement Name” below. |
| >>>> Measurement Name | [5] 8.3.9 | Name of one Measurement agreed for this test |
| >>>>Measurement ID | [5] 8.3.10 | The parameter may be configured during E2 Setup Procedure. |
| >>>Label Information | [5] 8.3.11 | If "Measurement Type Name" is a cell level parameter, the value is set to "No Label";  If "Measurement Type Name" is a slice level parameter, the value is set to "Slice ID". |
| >>>Granularity Period | [5] 8.3.8 | (1..4294967295) |
| >>> Cell Global ID | [5] 8.3.20 | Mandatory present if the subscribed Measurement above points to a specific cell. |
| RIC Event Trigger Definition IE | [5] 8.2.1.1 |  |
| >> E2SM-KPM Event Trigger Definition Format 1 | [5] 8.2.1.1.1 |  |
| >>>Reporting Period | [5] 8.2.1.1.1 | (1..4294967295) |

.

| IE/Group Name | Reference | Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | RIC SUBSCRIPTION RESPONSE |
| RIC Request ID | [2] 9.2.7 | Same RIC Request ID in RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST |
| RAN Function ID | [2] 9.2.8 | Same RAN Function ID in RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST |
| Cause | [2] 9.2.1 | DUT responds Failure with reasonable cause，eg. RIC services->RIC Request->Function resource limit. |
| Criticality Diagnostics | [2] 9.2.2 |  |

The test is considered passed if

##### RIC Subscription procedure with REPORT Service Style 2, Single Action Format Type 2 (negative)

The purpose of this test case is to test the RIC Subscription procedure to RAN function “O-RAN-E2SM-KPM” Report Style 1 as specified in [5] clause 7.4.1 The expected outcome is that Near-RT RIC can receive and process unsuccessful RIC Subscription from E2 node.

This testcase is conditional mandatory if the DUT claims to support unsuccessful operation of RIC Subscription procedure for RAN function “O-RAN-E2SM-KPM” Report Style 2 and Action Format Type 2.

| IE Name | Reference | Configuration / Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| RAN Function Name | [5] 8.3.1 |  |
| >RAN Function Short Name | [5] 8.3.1 | ORAN-E2SM-KPM |
| >RAN Function Service Model OID | [5] 8.3.1 | 1.3.6.1.4.1.53148.1.2.2 |
| > RAN Function Description | [5] 8.3.1 | KPM Monitor |
| Sequence of Event Trigger styles |  |  |
| >RIC Event Trigger Style Type | [5] 8.3.3 | 1 |
| >RIC Event Trigger Style Name | [5] 8.3.4 | Periodic Report |
| >RIC Event Trigger Format Type | [5] 8.3.5 | 1 |
| Sequence of Report styles |  |  |
| > RIC Report Style Type | [5] 8.3.3 | 2 |
| > RIC Report Style Name | [5] 8.3.4 | E2 Node Measurement for a single UE |
| > RIC Report Action Format Type | [5] 8.3.5 | 2 |
| > Sequence of Measurement Info for Action |  |  |
| >> Measurement Type Name | [5] 8.3.9 | Name of one Measurement agreed for this test |
| >> Measurement Type ID | [5] 8.3.10 | Optional IE; Test Simulator may configure this IE with one Measurement Type Name |
| >RIC Indication Header Format | [5] 8.3.5 | 1 |
| >RIC Indication Message Format | [5] 8.3.5 | 1 |

- DUT (Near-RT RIC) has functionality to trigger subscription to RAN function “O-RAN-E2SM-KPM” Report Style 2, for the agreed measurement information.

| E2SM-KPM IE/Group Name | Reference | Validation |
| --- | --- | --- |
| RIC Action Definition IE | [5] 8.2.1.2 |  |
| >RIC Style Type | [5] 8.2.1.2 |  |
| >> E2SM-KPM Action Definition Format2 | [5] 8.2.1.2.2 |  |
| >>>UE ID | [5] 8.3.24 | Valid UE ID pointing to a specific UE of interest |
| >>>CHOICE Measurement Type |  | Select one item of the two parameters below to subscribe if “Measurement ID” is configured during E2 Setup procedure; Otherwise configure “Measurement Name” below. |
| >>>> Measurement Name | [5] 8.3.9 | Name of one Measurement agreed for this test |
| >>>> Measurement ID | [5] 8.3.10 | The parameter may be configured during E2 Setup Procedure. |
| >>> Label Information | [5] 8.3.11 | If "Measurement Type Name" is a UE level parameter, Value is set to "No Label"; If "Measurement Type Name" is a 5QI level parameter, the value is set to "5QI". |
| >>>> Granularity Period | [5] 8.3.8 | Use the same value as Reporting Period |
| >>>> Cell Global ID | [5] 8.3.20 | The cell which the subcribed UE belongs to |
| RIC Event Trigger Definition IE | [5] 8.2.1.1 |  |
| > E2SM-KPM Event Trigger Definition Format 1 | [5] 8.2.1.1.1 |  |
| >> Reporting Period | [5] 8.2.1.1.1 | (1..4294967295) |

| IE/Group Name | Reference | Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | RIC SUBSCRIPTION RESPONSE |
| RIC Request ID | [2] 9.2.7 | Same RIC Request ID in RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST |
| RAN Function ID | [2] 9.2.8 | Same RAN Function ID in RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST |
| Cause | [2] 9.2.1 | DUT responds Failure with reasonable cause，eg. RIC services->RIC Request->Function resource limit. |
| Criticality Diagnostics | [2] 9.2.2 |  |

The test is considered passed if

##### RIC Subscription procedure with REPORT Service Style 1, Single Action Format Type 1 for multiple measurements (positive)

The purpose of this test case is to test the RIC Subscription procedure with multiple KPM measurement items to RAN function “O-RAN-E2SM-KPM” Report Style 1 as specified in [5] clause 7.4.1.  The expected outcome is successful RIC Subscription by Near-RT RIC.

This testcase is conditional mandatory if the DUT claims to support RIC Subscription procedure for RAN function “O-RAN-E2SM-KPM” Report Style 1 and Action Format Type 1.

| IE Name | Reference | Configuration / Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| RAN Function Name | [5] 8.3.1 |  |
| >RAN Function Short Name | [5] 8.3.1 | ORAN-E2SM-KPM |
| >RAN Function Service Model OID | [5] 8.3.1 | 1.3.6.1.4.1.53148.1.2.2 |
| > RAN Function Description | [5] 8.3.1 | KPM Monitor |
| Sequence of Event Trigger styles |  |  |
| >RIC Event Trigger Style Type | [5] 8.3.3 | 1 |
| >RIC Event Trigger Style Name | [5] 8.3.4 | Periodic Report |
| >RIC Event Trigger Format Type | [5] 8.3.5 | 1 |
| Sequence of Report styles |  |  |
| > RIC Report Style Type | [5] 8.3.3 | 1 |
| > RIC Report Style Name | [5] 8.3.4 | E2 Node Measurement |
| > RIC Report Action Format Type | [5] 8.3.5 | 1 |
| > Sequence of Measurement Info for Action |  | At least 2 items |
| >> Measurement Type Name | [5] 8.3.9 | Name of Measurement agreed for this test |
| >RIC Indication Header Format | [5] 8.3.5 | 1 |
| >RIC Indication Message Format | [5] 8.3.5 | 1 |

- DUT (Near-RT RIC) has functionality to trigger subscription to RAN function “O-RAN-E2SM-KPM” Report Style 1, for at least two agreed measurement information.

| IE/Group Name | Reference | Validation |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.1.1.1 | RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST |
| RIC Request ID | [2] 9.1.1.1 | Valid RIC Request ID |
| RAN Function ID | [2] 9.2.8 | Should be same as RAN Function ID indicated for the agreed RAN Function during E2 Setup procedure |
| RIC Subscription Details |  |  |
| >RIC Event Trigger Definition | [2] 9.2.9 | Validation for IEs defined in RAN Function specific E2 Service Model [4] [5] [6] is outside the scope of this test. |
| >Sequence of Actions |  |  |
| >>RIC Action ID | [2] 9.2.10 | Valid RIC Action ID, INTEGER (0..255) |
| >>RIC Action Type | [2] 9.2.11 | Valid RIC Action Type, ENUMERATED (Insert, Report, Policy, …) |
| >>RIC Action Definition | [2] 9.2.12 | Validation for IEs defined in RAN Function specific E2 Service Model [4] [5] [6] is outside the scope of this test. |

| E2SM-KPM IE/Group Name | Reference | Validation |
| --- | --- | --- |
| RIC Action Definition IE | [5] 8.2.1.2 |  |
| >RIC Style Type | [5] 8.2.1.2 | 1 |
| >> E2SM-KPM Action Definition Format1 | [5] 8.2.1.2.1 |  |
| >> Measurement Information List |  | At least 2 items |
| >>> Measurement Name | [5] 8.3.9 | Name of one Measurement agreed for this test |
| >>> Measurement ID | [5] 8.3.10 | Valid ID |
| >>Label Information | [5] 8.3.11 | If "Measurement Type Name" is a cell level parameter, the value is set to "No Label"; If "Measurement Type Name" is a slice level parameter, the value is set to "Slice ID". |
| >>Granularity Period | [5] 8.3.8 | (1..4294967295) |
| RIC Event Trigger Definition IE | [5] 8.2.1.1 |  |
| >> E2SM-KPM Event Trigger Definition Format 1 | [5] 8.2.1.1.1 |  |
| >> Reporting Period | [5] 8.2.1.1.1 | (1..4294967295) |

.

Table 5.2.3.1.5-4 Parameters in RIC SUBSCRIPTION RESPONSE message

| IE/Group Name | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | RIC SUBSCRIPTION RESPONSE |
| RIC Request ID | [2] 9.2.7 | Received RIC Request ID |
| RAN Function ID | [2] 9.2.8 | Received RAN Function ID |
| RIC Actions Admitted List |  |  |
| >RIC Action ID | [2] 9.2.10 | Received Action ID requested included in RIC Actions Admitted List IE. |

The test is considered passed if

##### RIC Subscription procedure with REPORT Service Style 2, Single Action Format Type 2 for multiple measurements (positive)

The purpose of this test case is to test the RIC Subscription procedure with multiple KPM measurement items to RAN function “O-RAN-E2SM-KPM” Report Style 2 as specified in [5] clause 7.4.3. The expected outcome is successful RIC Subscription by Near-RT RIC.

This testcase is conditional mandatory if the DUT claims to support RIC Subscription procedure for RAN function “O-RAN-E2SM-KPM” Report Style 2.

| IE Name | Reference | Configuration / Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| RAN Function Name | [5] 8.3.1 |  |
| >RAN Function Short Name | [5] 8.3.1 | ORAN-E2SM-KPM |
| >RAN Function Service Model OID | [5] 8.3.1 | 1.3.6.1.4.1.53148.1.1.2.2 |
| > RAN Function Description | [5] 8.3.1 | KPM Monitor |
| Sequence of Event Trigger styles |  |  |
| >RIC Event Trigger Style Type | [5] 8.3.3 | 1 |
| >RIC Event Trigger Style Name | [5] 8.3.4 | Periodic Report |
| >RIC Event Trigger Format Type | [5] 8.3.5 | 1 |
| Sequence of Report styles |  |  |
| > RIC Report Style Type | [5] 8.3.3 | 2 |
| > RIC Report Style Name | [5] 8.3.4 | E2 Node Measurement for a single UE |
| > RIC Report Action Format Type | [5] 8.3.5 | 2 |
| > Sequence of Measurement Info for Action |  | At least two items |
| >> Measurement Type Name | [5] 8.3.9 | Name of Measurement agreed for this test |
| >RIC Indication Header Format | [5] 8.3.5 | 1 |
| >RIC Indication Message Format | [5] 8.3.5 | 1 |

- DUT (Near-RT RIC) has functionality to trigger subscription to RAN function “O-RAN-E2SM-KPM” Report Style 2, for at least two agreed measurement information.

| IE/Group Name | Reference | Validation |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.1.1.1 | RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST |
| RIC Request ID | [2] 9.1.1.1 | Valid RIC Request ID |
| RAN Function ID | [2] 9.2.8 | Should be same as RAN Function ID indicated for the agreed RAN Function during E2 Setup procedure |
| RIC Subscription Details |  |  |
| >RIC Event Trigger Definition | [2] 9.2.9 | Validation for IEs defined in RAN Function specific E2 Service Model [4] [5] [6] is outside the scope of this test. |
| >Sequence of Actions |  |  |
| >>RIC Action ID | [2] 9.2.10 | Valid RIC Action ID, INTEGER (0..255) |
| >>RIC Action Type | [2] 9.2.11 | Valid RIC Action Type, ENUMERATED (Insert, Report, Policy, …) |
| >>RIC Action Definition | [2] 9.2.12 | Validation for IEs defined in RAN Function specific E2 Service Model [4] [5] [6] is outside the scope of this test. |

| E2SM-KPM IE/Group Name | Reference | Validation |
| --- | --- | --- |
| RIC Action Definition IE | [5] 8.2.1.2 |  |
| >RIC Style Type | [5] 8.2.1.2 |  |
| >> E2SM-KPM Action Definition Format2 | [5] 8.2.1.2.2 |  |
| >>>UE ID | [5] 8.3.24 | Valid UE ID pointing to a specific UE of interest |
| >>>>Measurement Information List |  | At least two items |
| >>>>> Measurement Name | [5] 8.3.9 | Name of Measurement agreed for this test |
| >>>>> Measurement ID | [5] 8.3.10 | (1.. 65535) |
| >>>>> Label Information | [5] 8.3.11 | If "Measurement Type Name" is a UE level parameter, Value is set to "No Label"; If "Measurement Type Name" is a 5QI level parameter, the value is set to "5QI". |
| >>>> Granularity Period | [5] 8.3.8 | Use the same value as Reporting Period |
| >>>> Cell Global ID | [5] 8.3.20 | Not used |
| RIC Event Trigger Definition IE | [5] 8.2.1.1 |  |
| > E2SM-KPM Event Trigger Definition Format 1 | [5] 8.2.1.1.1 |  |
| >> Reporting Period | [5] 8.2.1.1.1 | (1..4294967295) |

Table 5.2.3.1.6-4 Parameters in RIC SUBSCRIPTION RESPONSE message

| IE/Group Name | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | RIC SUBSCRIPTION RESPONSE |
| RIC Request ID | [2] 9.2.7 | Received RIC Request ID |
| RAN Function ID | [2] 9.2.8 | Received RAN Function ID |
| RIC Actions Admitted List |  |  |
| >RIC Action ID | [2] 9.2.10 | Received Action ID requested included in RIC Actions Admitted List IE. |

The test is considered passed if

##### RIC Indication procedure for REPORT Service style 1 for multiple measurements (positive)

The purpose of this test case is to test the RIC Indication procedure of Near-RT RIC for RAN function “O-RAN-E2SM-KPM” REPORT Service style 1 as specified in [5] clause 7.4.2. The expected outcome of this test is successful receiving of the RIC INDICATION message associated with the E2SM-KPM REPORT Service style 1 from the E2 Node with multiple measurement items.

This testcase is conditionally mandatory if the DUT (Near-RT RIC) claims to support RIC Indication procedure for RAN function “O-RAN-E2SM-KPM” REPORT Service style 1.

| IE Name | Reference | Configuration / Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| RAN Function Name | [5] 8.3.1 |  |
| >RAN Function Short Name | [5] 8.3.1 | ORAN-E2SM-KPM |
| >RAN Function Service Model OID | [5] 8.3.1 | 1.3.6.1.4.1.53148.1.2.2 |
| > RAN Function Description | [5] 8.3.1 | KPM Monitor |
| Sequence of Event Trigger styles |  |  |
| >RIC Event Trigger Style Type | [5] 8.3.3 | 1 |
| >RIC Event Trigger Style Name | [5] 8.3.4 | Periodic Report |
| >RIC Event Trigger Format Type | [5] 8.3.5 | 1 |
| Sequence of Report styles |  |  |
| > RIC Report Style Type | [5] 8.3.3 | 1 |
| > RIC Report Style Name | [5] 8.3.4 | E2 Node Measurement |
| > RIC Report Action Format Type | [5] 8.3.5 | 1 |
| > Sequence of Measurement Info for Action |  |  |
| >> Measurement Type Name | [5]8.3.9 | Name of one Measurement agreed for this test |
| >RIC Indication Header Format | [5] 8.3.5 | 1 |
| >RIC Indication Message Format | [5] 8.3.5 | 1 |

| E2SM-KPM IE/Group Name | Reference | Validation |
| --- | --- | --- |
| RIC Action Definition IE | [5] 8.2.1.2 |  |
| >RIC Style Type | [5] 8.2.1.2 | 1 |
| >> E2SM-KPM Action Definition Format1 | [5] 8.2.1.2.1 |  |
| >> Measurement Information List |  | At least 2 items |
| >>> Measurement Name | [5] 8.3.9 | Name of one Measurement agreed for this test |
| >>> Measurement ID | [5] 8.3.10 | Valid ID |
| >>Label Information | [5] 8.3.11 | If "Measurement Type Name" is a cell level parameter, the value is set to "No Label"; If "Measurement Type Name" is a slice level parameter, the value is set to "Slice ID". |
| >>Granularity Period | [5] 8.3.8 | (1..4294967295) |
| RIC Event Trigger Definition IE | [5] 8.2.1.1 |  |
| >> E2SM-KPM Event Trigger Definition Format 1 | [5] 8.2.1.1.1 |  |
| >> Reporting Period | [5] 8.2.1.1.1 | (1..4294967295) |

| IE/Group Name | Reference | Configuration/ Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Collection Start Time | [5] 8.3.12 | Time stamp encoded in the same format as the first four octets of the 64-bit timestamp format as defined in section 6 of IETF RFC 5905 [13]. |
| File Format Version | [5] 8.2.1.3.1 | Not used |
| Sender Name | [5] 8.2.1.3.1 | Not used |
| Sender Type | [5] 8.2.1.3.1 | Not used |
| Vendor Name | [5] 8.2.1.3.1 | Not used |

| IE/Group Name | Reference | Configuration/ Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Measurements Data |  |  |
| >Measurements Record |  | Contains measured values in same order as in the  Measurements Information List IE if present, otherwise in the order defined in the subscription identified by the Subscription ID. |
| >>CHOICE Measured Value |  |  |
| >>>Integer Value | [5] 8.2.1.4.1 | INTEGER (0..4294967295) |
| >>>Real Value | [5] 8.2.1.4.1 | REAL |
| >>>No Value | [5] 8.2.1.4.1 | Not used |
| >Incomplete Flag | [5] 8.2.1.4.1 | No incomplete flag |
| Measurement Information List |  | At least two items |
| >CHOICE Measurement Type |  |  |
| >>Measurement Name | [5] 8.3.9 | Same as the Measurement Name received in the corresponding RIC Subscription procedure |
| >>Measurement ID | [5] 8.3.10 | Not used |
| >List of Labels |  |  |
| >>Label Information | [5] 8.3.11 | If "Measurement Type Name" is a cell level parameter, the value is set to "No Label"; If "Measurement Type Name" is a slice level parameter, the value is set to "Slice ID". |
| Granularity Period | [5] 8.3.8 | Not used |

The test is considered passed if

##### RIC Indication procedure for REPORT Service style 2 for multiple measurements (positive)

The purpose of this test case is to test the RIC Indication procedure of Near-RT RIC for RAN function “O-RAN-E2SM-KPM” REPORT Service style 2 as specified in [5] clause 7.4.1 The expected outcome of this test is successful reception of the RIC INDICATION message associated with the E2SM-KPM REPORT Service style 2 from the E2 Node with multiple measurement items.

This testcase is conditionally mandatory if the DUT (Near-RT RIC) claims to support RIC Indication procedure for RAN function “O-RAN-E2SM-KPM” REPORT Service style 2.

| IE Name | Reference | Configuration / Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| RAN Function Name | [5] 8.3.1 |  |
| >RAN Function Short Name | [5] 8.3.1 | ORAN-E2SM-KPM |
| >RAN Function Service Model OID | [5] 8.3.1 | 1.3.6.1.4.1.53148.1.2.2 |
| > RAN Function Description | [5] 8.3.1 | KPM Monitor |
| Sequence of Event Trigger styles |  |  |
| >RIC Event Trigger Style Type | [5] 8.3.3 | 1 |
| >RIC Event Trigger Style Name | [5] 8.3.4 | Periodic Report |
| >RIC Event Trigger Format Type | [5] 8.3.5 | 1 |
| Sequence of Report styles |  |  |
| > RIC Report Style Type | [5] 8.3.3 | 1 |
| > RIC Report Style Name | [5] 8.3.4 | E2 Node Measurement |
| > RIC Report Action Format Type | [5] 8.3.5 | 1 |
| > Sequence of Measurement Info for Action |  |  |
| >> Measurement Type Name | [5]8.3.9 | Name of one Measurement agreed for this test |
| >RIC Indication Header Format | [5] 8.3.5 | 1 |
| >RIC Indication Message Format | [5] 8.3.5 | 1 |

| E2SM-KPM IE/Group Name | Reference | Validation |
| --- | --- | --- |
| RIC Action Definition IE | [5] 8.2.1.2 |  |
| >RIC Style Type | [5] 8.2.1.2 |  |
| >> E2SM-KPM Action Definition Format2 | [5] 8.2.1.2.2 |  |
| >>>UE ID | [5] 8.3.24 | Valid UE ID pointing to a specific UE of interest |
| >>>>Measurement Information List |  | At least two items |
| >>>>> Measurement Name | [5] 8.3.9 | Name of Measurement agreed for this test |
| >>>>> Measurement ID | [5] 8.3.10 | (1.. 65535) |
| >>>>> Label Information | [5] 8.3.11 | If "Measurement Type Name" is a UE level parameter, Value is set to "No Label"; If "Measurement Type Name" is a 5QI level parameter, the value is set to "5QI". |
| >>>> Granularity Period | [5] 8.3.8 | Use the same value as Reporting Period |
| >>>> Cell Global ID | [5] 8.3.20 | Not used |
| RIC Event Trigger Definition IE | [5] 8.2.1.1 |  |
| > E2SM-KPM Event Trigger Definition Format 1 | [5] 8.2.1.1.1 |  |
| >> Reporting Period | [5] 8.2.1.1.1 | (1..4294967295) |

| IE/Group Name | Reference | Configuration/ Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Collection Start Time | [5] 8.3.12 | Time stamp encoded in the same format as the first four octets of the 64-bit timestamp format as defined in section 6 of IETF RFC 5905 [13]. |
| File Format Version | [5] 8.2.1.3.1 | Not used |
| Sender Name | [5] 8.2.1.3.1 | Not used |
| Sender Type | [5] 8.2.1.3.1 | Not used |
| Vendor Name | [5] 8.2.1.3.1 | Not used |

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Configuration/ Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Measurements Data |  |  |
| >Measurements Record |  | Contains measured values in same order as in the  Measurements Information Condition UE List IE. |
| >>CHOICE Measured Value |  |  |
| >>>Integer Value | [5] 8.2.1.4.2 | INTEGER (0..4294967295) |
| >>>Real Value | [5] 8.2.1.4.2 | REAL |
| >>>No Value | [5] 8.2.1.4.2 | Not used |
| >Incomplete Flag | [5] 8.2.1.4.2 | No incomplete flag |
| Measurement Information Condition UE List |  | At least two items |
| >CHOICE Measurement Type |  |  |
| >>Measurement Name | [5] 8.3.9 | Same as the Measurement Name received in the corresponding RIC Subscription procedure |
| >>Measurement ID | [5] 8.3.10 | NULL (not selected) |
| >Matching Condition |  |  |
| >>CHOICE Condition Type | [5] 8.2.1.4.2 |  |
| >>>Label Information | [5] 8.3.11 | If "Measurement Type Name" is a UE level parameter, Value is set to "No Label"; If "Measurement Type Name" is a 5QI level parameter, the value is set to "5QI". |
| >>>Test Information | [5] 8.3.22 | No Test Information |
| >List of matched UE IDs |  |  |
| >>UE ID | [5] 8.3.24 | Valid UE ID |
| Granularity Period | [5] 8.3.8 | No Granularity Period |

The test is considered passed if

#### Test Cases for RIC Indication E2SM-KPM

##### RIC Indication procedure with REPORT Service style 1 (positive)

The purpose of this test case is to test the RIC Indication procedure of Near-RT RIC for RAN function “O-RAN-E2SM-KPM” REPORT Service style 1 as specified in [5] clause 7.4.2. The expected outcome of this test is successful receiving of the RIC INDICATION message associated with the E2SM-KPM REPORT Service style 1 from the E2 Node.

This testcase is conditionally mandatory if the DUT (Near-RT RIC) claims to support RIC Indication procedure for RAN function “O-RAN-E2SM-KPM” REPORT Service style 1.

The test entrance criteria specified in clause 5.2.2.1.1.2 applies with agreed RAN Function Definition IE defined in [5] clause 8.2.2.1 as per configuration profile shown in Table 5.2.3.1.1-1Table 5.2.2-1

The initial conditions specified in clause 5.2.2.1.1.3.1 applies. In addition, at least one successful subscription associated with E2SM-KPM REPORT Service style 1 exists. The RIC Event Trigger Definition and RIC Action Definition IEs in the RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST message are defined in Table 5.2.3.1.1-2

| IE/Group Name | Reference | Configuration/ Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Collection Start Time | [5] 8.3.12 | Time stamp encoded in the same format as the first four octets of the 64-bit timestamp format as defined in section 6 of IETF RFC 5905 [13]. |
| File Format Version | [5] 8.2.1.3.1 | Not used |
| Sender Name | [5] 8.2.1.3.1 | Not used |
| Sender Type | [5] 8.2.1.3.1 | Not used |
| Vendor Name | [5] 8.2.1.3.1 | Not used |

| IE/Group Name | Reference | Configuration/ Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Measurements Data |  |  |
| >Measurements Record |  | Contains measured values in same order as in the  Measurements Information List IE if present, otherwise in the order defined in the subscription identified by the Subscription ID. |
| >>CHOICE Measured Value |  |  |
| >>>Integer Value | [5] 8.2.1.4.1 | INTEGER (0..4294967295) |
| >>>Real Value | [5] 8.2.1.4.1 | REAL |
| >>>No Value | [5] 8.2.1.4.1 | Not used |
| >Incomplete Flag | [5] 8.2.1.4.1 | No incomplete flag |
| Measurement Information List |  |  |
| >CHOICE Measurement Type |  |  |
| >>Measurement Name | [5] 8.3.9 | Same as the Measurement Name received in the corresponding RIC Subscription procedure |
| >>Measurement ID | [5] 8.3.10 | Not used |
| >List of Labels |  |  |
| >>Label Information | [5] 8.3.11 | No Label |
| Granularity Period | [5] 8.3.8 | Not used |

The same expected results specified in clause 5.2.2.4.1.3.3 applies.

##### RIC Indication procedure for REPORT Service style 2 (positive)

The purpose of this test case is to test the RIC Indication procedure of Near-RT RIC for RAN function “O-RAN-E2SM-KPM” REPORT Service style 2 as specified in [5] clause 7.4.1 The expected outcome of this test is successful reception of the RIC INDICATION message associated with the E2SM-KPM REPORT Service style 2 from the E2 Node.

This testcase is conditionally mandatory if the DUT (Near-RT RIC) claims to support RIC Indication procedure for RAN function “O-RAN-E2SM-KPM” REPORT Service style 2.

The test entrance criteria specified in clause 5.2.2.1.1.2  apply with agreed RAN Function Definition IE defined in [5] clause 8.2.2.1 as per configuration shown in  Table 5.2.3.1.2-1

| IE/Group Name | Reference | Configuration/ Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Collection Start Time | [5] 8.3.12 | Time stamp encoded in the same format as the first four octets of the 64-bit timestamp format as defined in section 6 of IETF RFC 5905 [13]. |
| File Format Version | [5] 8.2.1.3.1 | Not used |
| Sender Name | [5] 8.2.1.3.1 | Not used |
| Sender Type | [5] 8.2.1.3.1 | Not used |
| Vendor Name | [5] 8.2.1.3.1 | Not used |

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Configuration/ Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Measurements Data |  |  |
| >Measurements Record |  | Contains measured values in same order as in the  Measurements Information Condition UE List IE. |
| >>CHOICE Measured Value |  |  |
| >>>Integer Value | [5] 8.2.1.4.2 | INTEGER (0..4294967295) |
| >>>Real Value | [5] 8.2.1.4.2 | REAL |
| >>>No Value | [5] 8.2.1.4.2 | Not used |
| >Incomplete Flag | [5] 8.2.1.4.2 | No incomplete flag |
| Measurement Information Condition UE List |  |  |
| >CHOICE Measurement Type |  |  |
| >>Measurement Name | [5] 8.3.9 | Same as the Measurement Name received in the corresponding RIC Subscription procedure |
| >>Measurement ID | [5] 8.3.10 | NULL (not selected) |
| >Matching Condition |  |  |
| >>CHOICE Condition Type | [5] 8.2.1.4.2 |  |
| >>>Label Information | [5] 8.3.11 | No Label Information |
| >>>Test Information | [5] 8.3.22 | No Test Information |
| >List of matched UE IDs |  |  |
| >>UE ID | [5] 8.3.24 | Valid UE ID |
| Granularity Period | [5] 8.3.8 | No Granularity Period |

The same expected results specified in clause 5.2.2.4.1.3.3 applies.

### E2AP Functional Procedures for E2SM-RC

FFS

### E2AP Functional Procedures for E2SM-NI

#### Test Cases for RIC Subscription E2SM-NI

##### RIC Subscription for RIC REPORT Style 1, Single Action, RIC Event Trigger 1 (positive case)

The purpose of this test case is to test the RIC Subscription procedure of the Near-RT RIC as specified in “O-RAN WG3: E2 Application Protocol” [2] clause 8.2.1. This test case is for subscription to RAN function “ORAN-E2SM-NI” Report style 1 as specified in [4] clause 7.4.2. The expected outcome is successful RIC Subscription by Near-RT RIC.

This test case is mandatory if the DUT claims to support RIC Subscription procedure for RAN function “O-RAN-E2SM-NI” Report style 1.

| IE/Group Name | Reference | Configuration / Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| RAN Function Name | [4] 8.3.2 |  |
| >RAN Function Short Name | [4] 8.3.2 | “ORAN-WG3-NI” |
| >RAN Function Service Model OID | [4] 8.3.2 | “1.3.6.1.4.1.53148.1.2.1” |
| > RAN Function Description | [4] 8.3.2 | “Network Interface” |
| Sequence of Network Interface Types |  |  |
| >Network Interface Type | [4] 8.3.21 | One Network Interface Type agreed for this test. |
| >Sequence of Event trigger styles |  |  |
| >>RIC Event Trigger Style Type | [4] 8.3.3 | 1 |
| >>RIC Event Trigger Style Name | [4] 8.3.4 | “Interface Message Event” |
| >>RIC Event Trigger Format Type | [4] 8.3.5 | 1 |
| >Sequence of Report styles |  |  |
| >>RIC Report Style Type | [4] 8.3.3 | 1 |
| >>RIC Report Style Name | [4] 8.3.4 | “Complete message” |
| >>RIC Report Action Format Type | [4] 8.3.5 | 1 |
| >>RIC Indication Header Format Type | [4] 8.3.5 | 1 |
| >>RIC Indication Message Format Type | [4] 8.3.5 | 1 |

- DUT (Near-RT RIC) has functionality to trigger subscription to RAN function “ORAN-E2SM-NI, compatible RAN Function Revision, Report Style 1, RIC Report Action Format 1 for the agreed Network Interface Type for this test.

| IE/Group Name | Reference | Validation |
| --- | --- | --- |
| >RIC Event Trigger Definition | [4] 8.2.1.1.1 | E2SM-NI Event Trigger Definition Format 1 |
| >> Network Interface Type | [4] 8.3.21 | Network Interface Type  as indicated during subscription. |

# Test Cases for E2 Nodes

## General

## Conformance Test Cases

#### Test Cases for E2 Setup procedure

##### E2 Setup

The purpose of this test case is to test the E2 Setup procedure of the DUT (E2 Node) as specified in “O-RAN WG3: E2 Application Protocol” [2] clause 8.3.1. This test is designed to be agnostic to the E2 Service Model and RAN functions supported by the E2 Node. The expected outcome is successful validation of E2 SETUP REQUEST message from E2 Node and establishment of the signalling connection between E2 Node and Near-RT RIC.

This testcase is mandatory.

- The DUT (E2 Node) has the functionality to trigger E2 Setup procedure.
Step 1. Initiate appropriate action in DUT (E2 Node) to trigger E2 Setup procedure.

Step 2. At the Test Simulator (Near-RT RIC) the received and transmitted E2 messages are recorded.

Step 3. The Test Simulator does the following validation:

The received message is E2 SETUP REQUEST as specified in [2] clause 9.1.2.2 and validated with information elements as specified in table below.

| IE/Group Name | Reference | Presence | Validation |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | M | E2 SETUP REQUEST |
| Transaction ID | [2] 9.2.33 | M | Valid Transaction ID, INTEGER (0…255,…) |
| Global E2 Node ID | [2] 9.2.6 | M | Valid Global E2 Node ID corresponding to claimed E2 Node type and supported modes |
| RAN Functions Added List |  | List of RAN functions in E2 Node |  |
| >RAN Function Item |  | From 1 to maxofRANfunctionID (256) items |  |
| >>RAN Function ID | [2] 9.2.8 | M | Valid RAN Function ID, INTEGER (1…4095). 0 is invalid as reserved to Near-RT RIC internal usage |
| >>RAN Function Definition | [2] 9.2.23 | M | Valid RAN Function Definition as defined in the corresponding E2 Service Model [3] |
| >>RAN Function Revision | [2] 9.2.24 | M | Valid RAN Function Revision, INTEGER (0…4095) |
| >>RAN Function OID | [2] 9.2.31 | M | Valid RAN Function OID as specified in the corresponding E2 Service Model [3] |
| E2 Node Component Configuration Addition List |  | List of E2 Node component configuration information |  |
| >E2 Node Component Configuration Addition Item |  | From 1 to maxofE2nodeComponents (1024) items |  |
| >>E2 Node Component Interface Type | [2] 9.2.26 | M | Valid E2 Node Component Interface Type, ENUMERATED (ng, xn, e1, f1, w1, s1, x2,  …) corresponding to the DUT E2 node component type |
| >>E2 Node Component ID | [2] 9.2.32 | O | Optional, if present check for valid information elements |
| >>E2 Node Component Configuration | [2] 9.2.27 | M | Refer to table in [2] clause 9.2.27 with DUT (E2 Node) component type to determine the appropriate 3GPP specification. Validate data structure against this specification |

Step 4. If validation in step 3 is successful, E2 SETUP RESPONSE message as specified in [2] clause 9.1.2.3 is sent to the DUT (E2 Node) with parameters shown in table below

| IE Name | Reference | Configuration / Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | E2 SETUP RESPONSE |
| Transaction ID | [2] 9.2.33 | INTEGER (0…255,..) same as received in E2 SETUP REQUEST |
| Global RIC ID | [2] 9.2.4 | Valid Global RIC ID following parameter in Test Simulator |
| RAN Functions Accepted List |  |  |
| >RAN Functions ID item |  | Accept all valid RAN Functions received in E2 SETUP REQUEST |
| >>RAN Function ID | [2] 9.2.8 | Received RAN Function ID |
| >>RAN Function Revision | [2] 9.2.24 | Received RAN Function Revision |
| E2 Node Component Configuration Addition Acknowledge List |  |  |
| >E2 Node Component Configuration Addition Acknowledge Item |  | Acknowledge all valid Component Configuration Addition received in E2 SETUP REQUEST message |
| >>E2 Node Component Interface Type | [2] 9.2.26 | Received E2 Node Component Interface Type |
| >>E2 Node Component ID | [2] 9.2.32 | Received E2 Node Component ID if any present in the E2 SETUP REQUEST message |
| >>E2 Node Component Configuration Acknowledge | [2] 9.2.28 | Success |

The test is considered passed if

The purpose of this test case is to test the E2 Reset procedure of the E2 Node initiated by Near-RT RIC as specified in “O-RAN WG3: E2 Application Protocol” [2] clause 8.3.2. The expected outcome is successful validation of RESET RESPONSE from E2 Node.

This testcase is mandatory if the DUT (E2 Node) claims to support Reset procedure.

Step 1. Initiate the Reset procedure from Test Simulator (Near-RT RIC) to the DUT (E2 Node) by sending RESET REQUEST message as specified in [2] clause 9.1.2.5 with information elements as specified in table below.

| IE Name | Reference | Configuration / Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | RESET REQUEST |
| Transaction ID | [2] 9.2.33 | INTEGER (0…255,..) |
| Cause | [2] 9.2.1 | Any valid cause |

Step 2. At the Test Simulator (Near-RT RIC) the transmitted and received E2 messages are recorded.

Step 3. The Test Simulator does the following validation:

- The received message is RESET RESPONSE as specified in [2] clause 9.1.2.6 with information elements validated as specified in table below

| IE/Group Name | Reference | Presence | Validation |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | M | RESET RESPONSE |
| Transaction ID | [2] 9.2.33 | M | INTEGER (0…255,…) same as received in RESET REQUEST |
| Criticality Diagnostics | [2] 9.2.2 | O | Optional, if present check for valid information elements |

The test is considered passed if

The purpose of this test case is to test the E2 Reset procedure of E2 Node initiated by E2 Node as specified in “O-RAN WG3: E2 Application Protocol” [2] clause 8.3.2. The expected outcome is successful validation of RESET REQUEST from E2 Node.

This testcase is mandatory if the DUT (E2 Node) claims to support Reset procedure.

The initial conditions specified in clause 6.2.1.2.1.3.1 applies.

Step 1. Initiate appropriate action in DUT (E2 Node) to trigger Reset procedure.

Step 2. At the Test Simulator (Near-RT RIC) the received and transmitted E2 messages are recorded.

Step 3. The Test Simulator does the following validation:

The received message is RESET REQUEST as specified in [2] clause 9.1.2.5 and validated with information        elements as specified in table below

| IE/Group Name | Reference | Presence | Validation |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | M | RESET REQUEST |
| Transaction ID | [2] 9.2.33 | M | Valid Transaction ID, INTEGER (0…255,…) |
| Cause | [2] 9.2.1 | M | Valid Cause information element |

Step 4. If validation in step 3 is successful, RESET RESPONSE message as specified in [2] clause 9.1.2.6 is sent to the DUT (E2 Node) with parameters shown in table below

| IE Name | Reference | Configuration / Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | RESET RESPONSE |
| Transaction ID | [2] 9.2.33 | INTEGER (0…255,..) same as received in RESET REQUEST |
| Criticality Diagnostics | [2] 9.2.2 | Optional, not sent |

The test is considered passed if

##### Error Indication procedure (Transfer Syntax Error)

The purpose of this test case is to test the Error Indication procedure of the DUT (E2-Node) as specified in “O-RAN WG3: E2 Application Protocol” [2] clause 8.3.3 and clause 10.  An ASN.1 syntax error is intentionally made in a message from Test Simulator (Near-RT RIC ) to trigger Error Indication from DUT (E2 Node ). The expected outcome is successful reception and validation of ERROR INDICATION message from E2-Node.

This testcase is conditional mandatory if DUT claims to support Error Indication procedure.

The DUT (E2 Node) has the functionality to initiate E2 Setup procedure

Step 1. Initiate appropriate action in DUT (E2 Node) to trigger E2 Setup procedure.

Step 2. At the Test Simulator (Near-RT RIC) the received and transmitted E2 messages are recorded.

Step 3. The Test Simulator does the following validation:

The received message is E2 SETUP REQUEST as specified in [2] clause 9.1.2.2 and validated with information elements as specified in table below.

| IE/Group Name | Reference | Presence | Validation |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | M | E2 SETUP REQUEST |
| Transaction ID | [2] 9.2.33 | M | Valid Transaction ID, INTEGER (0…255,…) |
| Global E2 Node ID | [2] 9.2.6 | M | Valid Global E2 Node ID corresponding to claimed E2 Node type and supported modes |
| RAN Functions Added List |  | List of RAN functions in E2 Node |  |
| >RAN Function Item |  | From 1 to maxofRANfunctionID (256) items |  |
| >>RAN Function ID | [2] 9.2.8 | M | Valid RAN Function ID, INTEGER (1…4095). 0 is invalid as reserved to Near-RT RIC internal usage |
| >>RAN Function Definition | [2] 9.2.23 | M | Valid RAN Function Definition as defined in the corresponding E2 Service Model [3] |
| >>RAN Function Revision | [2] 9.2.24 | M | Valid RAN Function Revision, INTEGER (0…4095) |
| >>RAN Function OID | [2] 9.2.31 | M | Valid RAN Function OID as specified in the corresponding E2 Service Model [3] |
| E2 Node Component Configuration Addition List |  | List of E2 Node component configuration information |  |
| >E2 Node Component Configuration Addition Item |  | From 1 to maxofE2nodeComponents (1024) items |  |
| >>E2 Node Component Interface Type | [2] 9.2.26 | M | Valid E2 Node Component Interface Type, ENUMERATED (ng, xn, e1, f1, w1, s1, x2,  …) corresponding to the DUT E2 node component type |
| >>E2 Node Component ID | [2] 9.2.32 | O | Optional, if present check for valid information elements |
| >>E2 Node Component Configuration | [2] 9.2.27 | M | Refer to table in [2] clause 9.2.27 with DUT (E2 Node) component type to determine the appropriate 3GPP specification. Validate data structure against this specification |

Step 4. If validation in step 3 is successful, E2 SETUP RESPONSE message as specified in [2] clause 9.1.2.3 is sent to the DUT (E2 Node) with parameters shown in table below

| IE Name | Reference | Configuration / Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | E2 SETUP RESPONSE |
| Transaction ID | [2] 9.2.33 | INTEGER (0…255,..) same as received in E2 SETUP REQUEST |
| Global RIC ID | [2] 9.2.4 | Invalid Global RIC ID eg Near-RT RIC ID more than 20 bit string or invalid PLMN ID |
| RAN Functions Accepted List |  |  |
| >RAN Functions ID item |  | Accept all valid RAN Functions received in E2 SETUP REQUEST |
| >>RAN Function ID | [2] 9.2.8 | Received RAN Function ID |
| >>RAN Function Revision | [2] 9.2.24 | Received RAN Function Revision |
| E2 Node Component Configuration Addition Acknowledge List |  |  |
| >E2 Node Component Configuration Addition Acknowledge Item |  | Acknowledge all valid Component Configuration Addition received in E2 SETUP REQUEST message |
| >>E2 Node Component Interface Type | [2] 9.2.26 | Received E2 Node Component Interface Type |
| >>E2 Node Component ID | [2] 9.2.32 | Received E2 Node Component ID if any present in the E2 SETUP REQUEST message |
| >>E2 Node Component Configuration Acknowledge | [2] 9.2.28 | Success |

Step 5. The Test Simulator does the following validation:

The received message from DUT (E2 Node) is ERROR INDICATION message since ASN.1decoding for Global RIC ID IE should fail at E2 Node. The ERROR INDICATION message is validated with parameters shown in table below.

| IE Name | Presence | Reference | Configuration / Value |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M | [2] 9.2.3 | ERROR INDICATION |
| Transaction ID | O | [2] 9.2.33 | INTEGER (0…255,..) Same as E2 SETUP RESPONSE |
| RIC Request ID | O | [2] 9.2.7 | Required if Transaction ID IE is not present |
| RAN Function ID | O | [2] 9.2.8 | Optional |
| Cause | O | [2] 9.2.1 | Cause Group: Protocol and Protocol Cause : Transfer Syntax Error |
| Criticality Diagnostics | O | [2] 9.2.2 | Optional |

The test is considered passed if

##### RIC Service Update procedure with empty RIC SERVICE QUERY message (positive case)

The purpose of this test case is to test the RIC Service Update procedure of the DUT (E2 Node) initiated by a RIC SERVICE QUERY message from Test Simulator (Near-RT RIC) as specified in “O-RAN WG3: E2 Application Protocol” [2] clause 8.3.4. This test case covers the scenario where RIC SERVICE QUERY is sent by Near-RT RIC without RAN Functions Accepted List IE.This test is designed to be agnostic to the E2 Service Model and RAN functions supported by the E2 Node. The expected outcome is successful validation of RIC SERVICE UPDATE message from E2 Node.

This test case is conditional mandatory if DUT claims support of RIC Service Update procedure.

Step 1. Initiate the RIC Service Update procedure from Test Simulator (Near-RT RIC) to the DUT (E2 Node) by sending RIC SERVICE QUERY message as specified in [2] clause 9.1.2.10 with information elements as specified in table below without sending RAN Function Accepted List IE.

| IE Name | Reference | Configuration / Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | RIC SERVICE QUERY |
| Transaction ID | [2] 9.2.33 | INTEGER (0…255,..) |

Step 2. At the Test Simulator (Near-RT RIC) the received and transmitted E2 messages are recorded.

Step 3. The Test Simulator does the following validation:

The received message is RIC SERVICE UPDATE as specified in [2] clause 9.1.2.7 and validated with information elements as specified in table below.

| IE/Group Name | Reference | Presence | Configuration/Value |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | M | RIC SERVICE UPDATE |
| Transaction ID | [2] 9.2.33 | M | INTEGER (0…255,…) same as in RIC SERVICE QUERY message |
| RAN Functions Added List |  | List of RAN functions in E2 Node |  |
| >RAN Function Item |  | From 1 to maxofRANfunctionID (256) items |  |
| >>RAN Function ID | [2] 9.2.8 | M | Valid RAN Function ID, INTEGER (1…4095). 0 is invalid as reserved to Near-RT RIC internal usage |
| >>RAN Function Definition | [2] 9.2.23 | M | Valid RAN Function Definition as defined in the corresponding E2 Service Model [3] |
| >>RAN Function Revision | [2] 9.2.24 | M | Valid RAN Function Revision, INTEGER (0…4095) |
| >>RAN Function OID | [2] 9.2.31 | M | Valid RAN Function OID as specified in the corresponding E2 Service Model [3] |

Step 4. If validation in step 3 is successful, RIC SERVICE UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE message as specified in [2] clause 9.1.2.8 is sent to the DUT (E2 Node) with parameters shown in table below

| IE Name | Reference | Configuration / Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | RIC SERVICE UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE |
| Transaction ID | [2] 9.2.33 | INTEGER (0…255,..) same as received in RIC SERVICE UPDATE message |
| Global RIC ID | [2] 9.2.4 | Valid Global RIC ID following parameter in Test Simulator |
| RAN Functions Accepted List |  |  |
| >RAN Functions ID item |  | Accept all valid RAN Functions received in RIC SERVICE UPDATE message |
| >>RAN Function ID | [2] 9.2.8 | Received RAN Function ID |
| >>RAN Function Revision | [2] 9.2.24 | Received RAN Function Revision |

##### RIC Service Update procedure with RIC SERVICE QUERY message provided list of Accepted RAN functions (positive case)

The purpose of this test case is to test the RIC Service Update procedure of the DUT (E2 Node) initiated by a RIC SERVICE QUERY message from Test Simulator (Near-RT RIC) as specified in “O-RAN WG3: E2 Application Protocol” [2] clause 8.3.4. This test case covers the scenario where RIC SERVICE QUERY is sent by Near-RT RIC providing RAN Functions Accepted List IE. This test is designed to be agnostic to the E2 Service Model and RAN functions supported by the E2 Node. The expected outcome is successful validation of RIC SERVICE UPDATE message from E2 Node.

This test case is conditional mandatory if DUT claims support of RIC Service Update procedure.

- The Test Simulator (Near-RT RIC) has already successfully completed E2 Setup procedure initiated from the DUT (E2 Node).
- The Test Simulator (Near-RT RIC) has kept updated in its database the list of RAN Functions supported by the E2 Node and accepted by the Near-RT RIC from E2 Setup and any previous RIC Service Update procedures.
Step 1. Initiate the RIC Service Update procedure from Test Simulator (Near-RT RIC) to the DUT (E2 Node) by sending RIC SERVICE QUERY message as specified in [2] clause 9.1.2.10 with information elements as specified in table below. RAN Functions Accepted List IE is the list of RAN Functions supported by the E2 Node and accepted by the Near-RT RIC from E2 Setup and any previous RIC Service Update procedures.

| IE Name | Reference | Configuration / Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | RIC SERVICE QUERY |
| Transaction ID | [2] 9.2.33 | INTEGER (0…255,..) |
| RAN Functions Accepted List |  | Updated list of RAN functions from previous procedures |
| >RAN Functions ID Item |  |  |
| >>RAN Function ID | [2] 9.2.8 | Same as in previous procedures |
| >>RAN Function Revision | [2] 9.2.24 | Same as in previous procedures |

Step 2. At the Test Simulator (Near-RT RIC) the received and transmitted E2 messages are recorded.

Step 3. The Test Simulator does the following validation:

The received message is RIC SERVICE UPDATE as specified in [2] clause 9.1.2.7 and validated with information elements as specified in table below.

| IE/Group Name | Reference | Presence | Configuration/Value |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | M | RIC SERVICE UPDATE |
| Transaction ID | [2] 9.2.33 | M | INTEGER (0…255,…) same as in RIC SERVICE QUERY message |
| RAN Functions Added List |  | List of RAN functions in E2 Node not present in RAN Functions Accepted List IE from RIC SERVICE QUERY message |  |
| >RAN Function Item |  | From 1 to maxofRANfunctionID (256) items |  |
| >>RAN Function ID | [2] 9.2.8 | M | Valid RAN Function ID, INTEGER (1…4095). 0 is invalid as reserved to Near-RT RIC internal usage |
| >>RAN Function Definition | [2] 9.2.23 | M | Valid RAN Function Definition as defined in the corresponding E2 Service Model [3] |
| >>RAN Function Revision | [2] 9.2.24 | M | Valid RAN Function Revision, INTEGER (0…4095) |
| >>RAN Function OID | [2] 9.2.31 | M | Valid RAN Function OID as specified in the corresponding E2 Service Model [3] |
| RAN Functions Modified List |  | List of RAN functions in E2 Node present in RAN Functions Accepted List IE from RIC SERVICE QUERY message but with at least one modification |  |
| >RAN Function Item |  | From 1 to maxofRANfunctionID (256) items |  |
| >>RAN Function ID | [2] 9.2.8 | M | Valid RAN Function ID, INTEGER (1…4095). same as in RIC SERVICE QUERY message |
| >>RAN Function Definition | [2] 9.2.23 | M | Valid RAN Function Definition as defined in the corresponding E2 Service Model [3] |
| >>RAN Function Revision | [2] 9.2.24 | M | Valid RAN Function Revision, INTEGER (0…4095) |
| >>RAN Function OID | [2] 9.2.31 | M | Valid RAN Function OID as specified in the corresponding E2 Service Model [3] |
| RAN Functions Deleted List |  | List of RAN functions not supported in E2 Node but present in RAN Functions Accepted List IE from RIC SERVICE QUERY message. |  |
| >RAN Function Item |  | From 1 to maxofRANfunctionID (256) items |  |
| >>RAN Function ID | [2] 9.2.8 | M | Valid RAN Function ID, INTEGER (1…4095).  same as in RIC SERVICE QUERY message |
| >>RAN Function Revision | [2] 9.2.24 | M | Valid RAN Function Revision, INTEGER (0…4095) same as in RIC SERVICE QUERY message |

Step 4. If validation in step 3 is successful, RIC SERVICE UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE message as specified in [2] clause 9.1.2.8 is sent to the DUT (E2 Node) with parameters shown in table below

| IE Name | Reference | Configuration / Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | RIC SERVICE UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE |
| Transaction ID | [2] 9.2.33 | INTEGER (0…255,..) same as received in RIC SERVICE UPDATE message |
| Global RIC ID | [2] 9.2.4 | Valid Global RIC ID following parameter in Test Simulator |
| RAN Functions Accepted List |  |  |
| >RAN Functions ID item |  | Accept all valid RAN Functions received in RIC SERVICE UPDATE message from Added, Modified and Deleted Lists |
| >>RAN Function ID | [2] 9.2.8 | Received RAN Function ID |
| >>RAN Function Revision | [2] 9.2.24 | Received RAN Function Revision |

The test is considered passed if

##### E2 Node Configuration Update procedure after a Near-RT RIC initiated addition of a new TNL association (positive case)

The purpose of this test case is to test the E2 Node Configuration Update procedure of the DUT (E2 Node) as specified in “O-RAN WG3: E2 Application Protocol” [2] clause 8.3.5 on a newly added TNL association. The expected outcome is successful validation of E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE message from E2 Node.

This test case is conditional mandatory if DUT (E2 Node) claims to support E2 Node Configuration Update procedure and multiple TNLAs over E2.

Step 1. Initiate the E2 Connection Update procedure from Test Simulator (Near-RT RIC) to the DUT (E2 Node) by requesting addition of a new TNL Association between DUT and Test Simulator. Validation of the E2 Connection Update procedure is out of the scope of this tests and can be referred in clause 6.2.1.K.

Step 2. At the Test Simulator (Near-RT RIC) the received, transmitted E2 messages and SCTP Transport level messages are recorded.

Step 3. The DUT (E2 Node) shall trigger E2 Node Configuration Update procedure on the new TNL Association.

Step 4. The Test Simulator does the following validation:

The received message is E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE as specified in [2] clause 9.1.2.11 and validated with information elements as specified in table below.

| IE/Group Name | Reference | Presence | Configuration/Value |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | M | E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE |
| Transaction ID | [2] 9.2.33 | M | Valid Transaction ID, INTEGER (0…255,..) |
| Global E2 Node ID | [2] 9.2.6 | M (in this scenario) | Valid Global E2 Node ID corresponding to claimed E2 Node type and supported modes. Same as in E2 Setup procedure. |

Step 5. If validation in step 4 is successful, E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE message as specified in [2] clause 9.1.2.12 is sent to DUT (E2 Node) with parameters shown in table below.

| IE/Group Name | Reference | Configuration/Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE |
| Transaction ID | [2] 9.2.33 | INTEGER (0…255,…) same as in E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE message |

The test is considered passed if

##### E2 Node Configuration Update procedure for E2 Node initiated TNL association removal (positive case)

The purpose of this test case is to test the E2 Node Configuration Update procedure of the DUT (E2 Node) as specified in “O-RAN WG3: E2 Application Protocol” [2] clause 8.3.5 for removal of a TNL association. The expected outcome is successful validation of E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE message from E2 Node and removal of the TNL Association.

This test case is conditional mandatory if DUT (E2 Node) claims to support E2 Node Configuration Update procedure and multiple TNLAs over E2.

Step 1. Initiate appropriate action in the DUT (E2 Node) to trigger E2 Node Configuration Update procedure for removal of the first TNL Association.

Step 2. At the Test Simulator (Near-RT RIC) the received, transmitted E2 messages and SCTP Transport level messages are recorded.

Step 3. The Test Simulator does the following validation:

The received message is E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE as specified in [2] clause 9.1.2.11 and validated with information elements as specified in table below.

| IE/Group Name | Reference | Presence | Configuration/Value |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | M | E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE |
| Transaction ID | [2] 9.2.33 | M | Valid Transaction ID, INTEGER (0…255,..) |
| E2 Node TNL Association To Remove List |  |  |  |
| > E2 Node TNL Association To Remove Item IEs |  |  |  |
| >> Transport Layer Information | [2] 9.2.29 | M | Valid Transport Layer Information, BIT STRING for Transport Layer Address (Mandatory, SIZE(1…160,…)) and Transport Layer Port (Optional, SIZE(16) ) Should correspond to the E2 Node Transport Layer Information of the first association |
| >> Transport Layer Information Near-RT RIC | [2] 9.2.29 | O | Optional Valid Transport Layer Information, BIT STRING for Transport Layer Address (Mandatory, SIZE(1…160,…)) and Transport Layer Port (Optional, SIZE(16) ) If provided, should correspond to the Near-RT RIC Transport Layer Information of the first association. |

Step 4. If validation in step 3 is successful, E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE message as specified in [2] clause 9.1.2.12 is sent to DUT (E2 Node) with parameters shown in table below.

| IE/Group Name | Reference | Configuration/Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE |
| Transaction ID | [2] 9.2.33 | INTEGER (0…255,…) same as in E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE message |

Step 5. Based on SCTP Transport level messages recorded in Step 2, the Test Simulator validates that the DUT (E2 Node) initiates and performs SCTP connection removal of the first TNL Association, following E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE message.

The test is considered passed if

##### E2 Connection Update procedure for adding additional TNL Association (positive case)

The purpose of this test case is to test the E2 Connection Update procedure of the DUT (E2 Node) as specified in “O-RAN WG3: E2 Application Protocol” [2] clause 8.3.6. The expected outcome is successful completion of E2 Connection Update procedure, E2 Node establishing additional TNL Association requested and validation of E2 CONNECTION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE message from E2 Node.

This testcase is conditional mandatory if DUT claims to support E2 Connection Update procedure and multiple TNLAs over E2.

Step 1. Initiate the E2 Connection Update procedure from Test Simulator (Near-RT RIC) to the DUT (E2 Node) by sending E2 CONNECTION UPDATE message as specified in [2] clause 9.1.2.14 with information elements as specified in table below.

| IE Name | Reference | Configuration / Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | E2 CONNECTION UPDATE |
| Transaction ID | [2] 9.2.33 | INTEGER (0…255,..) |
| E2 Connection To Add List |  |  |
| >E2 Connection to Add Item IEs |  |  |
| >>Transport Layer Information | [2] 9.2.29 | BIT STRING for Transport Layer Address (Mandatory, SIZE(1…160,…)) and Transport Layer Port (Optional, SIZE(16) )  Different from transport layer information used in initial SCTP association |
| >>TNL Association Usage | [2] 9.2.30 | ENUMERATED (ric service, support functions, both,..) “ric service” used as valid example |

Step 2. At the Test Simulator (Near-RT RIC) the received, transmitted E2 messages and SCTP Transport level messages are recorded.

Step 3. Based on SCTP Transport level messages recorded in Step 2 validate that the DUT (E2 Node) initiates and establishes a new SCTP connection towards Test Simulator (Near-RT RIC) according to the Transport Layer information (address and port) provided in E2 CONNECTION UPDATE message.

Step 4. The Test Simulator does the following validation:

- The received message is E2 CONNECTION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE as specified in [2] clause 9.1.2.15 and validated for information elements as specified in table below:

| IE/Group Name | Reference | Presence | Configuration/Value |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | M | E2 CONNECTION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE |
| Transaction ID | [2] 9.2.33 | M | INTEGER (0…255,…) same as in E2 CONNECTION UPDATE message |
| E2 Connection Setup List |  |  |  |
| >E2 Connection Setup Item IEs |  |  |  |
| >>Transport Layer Information | [2] 9.2.29 | M | Same BIT STRING as in E2 CONNECTION UPDATE message |
| >>TNL Association Usage | [2] 9.2.30 | M | “ric service” same as in E2 CONNECTION UPDATE message |

The test is considered passed if

#### Test Cases for E2 Removal Procedure

This testcase is mandatory if the DUT (E2 Node) claims to support E2 Removal procedure.

Step 1. Initiate appropriate action in DUT (E2 Node) to trigger E2 Removal procedure.

Step 2. At the Test Simulator (Near-RT RIC) the received, transmitted E2 messages and SCTP Transport level messages are recorded.

Step 3. The Test Simulator does the following validation:

- The received message is E2 REMOVAL REQUEST as specified in [2] clause 9.1.2.17 and validated with information elements as specified in table below:

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Reference | Configuration / Value |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M | 9.2.3 | REMOVAL REQUEST |
| Transaction ID | M | 9.2.33 | INTEGER (0..255, …) |

Step 4. If validation in step 3 is successful, E2 REMOVAL RESPONSE message as specified in [2] clause 9.1.2.18 is sent to the DUT (E2 Node) with parameters shown in table below

| IE/Group Name | Reference | Validation |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | 9.2.3 |  |
| Transaction ID | 9.2.33 | INTEGER (0..255, …) Same value as the one in REMOVAL REQUEST. |
| Criticality Diagnostics | 9.2.2 | Will not be used in this test |

Step 5. Based on SCTP Transport level messages recorded in Step 2 validate that the DUT (E2 Node) initiates and complete the termination of the SCTP connection by sending the SCTP SHUTDOWN_COMPLETE message.

This testcase is mandatory if the DUT (E2 Node) claims to supports E2 Removal procedure.

Step 1. Initiate the E2 Removal procedure from Test Simulator (Near-RT RIC) to the DUT (E2 Node) by sending E2 REMOVAL REQUEST message as specified in [2] clause 9.1.2.17 with information elements as specified in table below.

| IE/Group Name | Reference | Configuration / Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | 9.2.3 | REMOVAL REQUEST |
| Transaction ID | 9.2.33 | INTEGER (0..255, …) |

Step 2. At the Test Simulator (Near-RT RIC) the transmitted, received E2 messages and SCTP Transport level messages are recorded.

Step 3. The Test Simulator does the following validation:

- The received message is E2 REMOVAL RESPONSE as specified in [2] clause 9.1.2.18 and validated with information elements as specified in table below:

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Reference | Validation |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M | 9.2.3 |  |
| Transaction ID | M | 9.2.33 | INTEGER (0..255, …) Same value as the one in REMOVAL REQUEST. |
| Criticality Diagnostics | O | 9.2.2 | Will not be used in this test |

Step 4. Based on SCTP Transport level messages recorded in Step 2 validate that the DUT (E2 Node) successfully acknowledge the termination of the SCTP connection initiated by the Test Simulator (Near-RT RIC) and sends SHUTDOWN_ACK message

This testcase is mandatory if the DUT claims to support E2AP RIC Subscription procedure.

.

| IE/Group Name | Reference | Configuration / Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.1.1.1 | RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST |
| RIC Request ID | [2] 9.1.1.1 | Any valid RIC Request ID, INTEGER (0.. 65535) |
| RAN Function ID | [2] 9.2.8 | Should be same as RAN Function ID indicated for the agreed RAN Function during E2 Setup procedure |
| RIC Subscription Details |  |  |
| >RIC Event Trigger Definition | [2] 9.2.9 | Use a supported  Event Trigger in RAN Function IE in the E2 SETUP REQUEST message exchanged during E2 Setup Procedure |
| >Sequence of Actions |  |  |
| >>RIC Action ID | [2] 9.2.10 | Any valid RIC Action ID, INTEGER (0..255) |
| >>RIC Action Type | [2] 9.2.11 | Any valid RIC Action Type, ENUMERATED (Insert, Report, Policy, …) indicated during E2 Setup procedure |
| >>RIC Action Definition | [2] 9.2.12 | Optionally added if required for the Service Model and RAN Function indicated during E2 Setup procedure |
| >>RIC Subsequent Action | [2] 9.2.13 | Optionally added if required for the RIC Action Type, Service Model and RAN Function used. |

| IE/Group Name | IE type and reference | Presence | Validation |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | M | RIC SUBSCRIPTION RESPONSE |
| RIC Request ID | [2] 9.2.7 | M | RIC Request ID used in RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST |
| RAN Function ID | [2] 9.2.8 | M | RAN Function ID used in RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST |
| RIC Actions Admitted List |  |  |  |
| >RIC Action ID | [2] 9.2.10 | M | RIC Action ID used in RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST |

The test is considered passed if

#### Test Cases for RIC Subscription Delete procedure

| IE Name | Reference | Configuration / Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| RAN Function Name | [5] 8.3.1 |  |
| >RAN Function Short Name | [5] 8.3.1 | ORAN-E2SM-KPM |
| >RAN Function Service Model OID | [5] 8.3.1 | 1.3.6.1.4.1.53148.1.2.2 |
| > RAN Function Description | [5] 8.3.1 | KPM Monitor |

- Near-RT RIC has functionality to trigger RIC subscription delete procedure to E2 Node for agreed RAN Functions.

| IE/Group Name | Reference | Configuration / Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | RIC SUBSCRIPTION DELETE REQUEST |
| RIC Request ID | [2] 9.2.7 | Use RIC Request ID agreed during RIC Subscription procedure |
| RAN Function ID | [2] 9.2.8 | Use RAN Function ID agreed during RIC Subscription procedure |

Step 3. The Test Simulator does the following validation:

The received message is RIC SUBSCRIPTION DELETE RESPONSE message specified in [2] 9.1.1.5 and validated with information elements as specified in table below.

| IE/Group Name | IE type and reference | Validation |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | RIC SUBSCRIPTION DELETE RESPONSE |
| RIC Request ID | [2] 9.2.7 | Received RIC Request ID |
| RAN Function ID | [2] 9.2.8 | Received RAN Function ID |

The test is considered passed if

##### RIC Subscription Delete Request procedure (Negative)-RIC Request ID unknown.

| IE Name | Reference | Configuration / Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| RAN Function Name | [5] 8.3.1 |  |
| >RAN Function Short Name | [5] 8.3.1 | ORAN-E2SM-KPM |
| >RAN Function Service Model OID | [5] 8.3.1 | 1.3.6.1.4.1.53148.1.2.2 |
| > RAN Function Description | [5] 8.3.1 | KPM Monitor |

Step 1. Initiate the RIC Subscription Delete procedure from Test Simulator (Near-RT RIC) to the DUT (E2 Node) by sending RIC SUBSCRIPTION DELETE REQUEST message as specified in [2] clause 9.1.1.4 with information elements as specified in table below.

| IE/Group Name | Reference | Validation |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | RIC SUBSCRIPTION DELETE REQUEST |
| RIC Request ID | [2] 9.2.7 | unsupported RIC Request ID |
| RAN Function ID | [2] 9.2.8 | Should be same as RAN Function ID indicated for the agreed RAN Function during E2 Setup procedure |

Step 2. At the Test Simulator (Near-RT RIC) the received and transmitted E2 messages are recorded.

Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation:

The received message is RIC SUBSCRIPTION DELETE FAILURE message specified in [2] 9.1.1.6 and validated with information elements as specified in the table below.

| IE/Group Name | IE type and reference | Validation |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | RIC SUBSCRIPTION DELETE FAILURE |
| RIC Request ID | [2] 9.2.7 | Received RIC Request ID |
| RAN Function ID | [2] 9.2.8 | Received RAN Function ID |
| Cause | [2]9.2.1 | RIC Request ID unknown |

Step 4. Validation is done to confirm that RIC SUBSCRIPTION DELETE FAILURE message sent with the cause value “RIC Request ID unknown”.

The test is considered passed if

- Validation in test procedure step 3 and step 4 are successful.
- RIC Subscription Delete Failure message sent to Near-RT RIC with the cause value “RIC Request ID unknown”.

##### RIC Subscription Delete procedure (Negative)-RAN Function ID invalid.

- The DUT (E2 Node) has the functionality to initiate E2 Setup procedure.
- The DUT (E2 Node) and Test Simulator (Near-RT RIC) support RIC Subscription Delete procedure.
- The RAN Function the RIC subscribes to, and the RAN Function definition are predefined between the DUT (E2 Node) and the Test Simulator (Near-RT RIC). An example of the agreed RAN Function Definition IE as per configuration is shown in table below.

| IE Name | Reference | Configuration / Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| RAN Function Name | [5] 8.3.1 |  |
| >RAN Function Short Name | [5] 8.3.1 | ORAN-E2SM-KPM |
| >RAN Function Service Model OID | [5] 8.3.1 | 1.3.6.1.4.1.53148.1.2.2 |
| > RAN Function Description | [5] 8.3.1 | KPM Monitor |

- Near-RT RIC has functionality to trigger RIC subscription delete to the unsupported RAN Function agreed.
- An SCTP association is successfully established between the two SCTP endpoints of the E2 interface. (SCTP initiation procedure has taken place before or is taking place with execution of this test case).
- The DUT (E2 Node) has successfully completed E2 Setup procedure and RIC subscription procedure with agreed RAN function ID and RIC request ID.
Step 1. Initiate the RIC Subscription Delete procedure from Test Simulator (Near-RT RIC) to the DUT (E2 Node) by sending RIC SUBSCRIPTION DELETE REQUEST message as specified in [2] clause 9.1.1.4 with information elements as specified in table below.

| IE/Group Name | Reference | Validation |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | RIC SUBSCRIPTION DELETE REQUEST |
| RIC Request ID | [2] 9.2.7 | Valid RIC Request ID |
| RAN Function ID | [2] 9.2.8 | Should be unsupported RAN Function ID |

Step 2. At the Test Simulator (Near-RT RIC) the received and transmitted E2 messages are recorded.

Step 3. The test simulator does the following validation:

The received message is RIC SUBSCRIPTION DELETE FAILURE message specified in [2] 9.1.1.6 and validated with information elements as specified in table below.

| IE/Group Name | IE type and reference | Validation |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | RIC SUBSCRIPTION DELETE FAILURE |
| RIC Request ID | [2] 9.2.7 | Received RIC Request ID |
| RAN Function ID | [2] 9.2.8 | Received RAN Function ID |
| Cause | [2]9.2.1 | RAN Function ID invalid |

Step 4. Validation is done to confirm that RIC SUBSCRIPTION DELETE FAILURE message sent with the cause value “RAN Function ID invalid”.

Step 1. Initiate appropriate actions in DUT (E2 Node) to trigger RIC Subscription Delete Required procedure for the agreed RAN Function.

| IE / Message value | Reference | Configuration / Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | RIC SUBSCRIPTION DELETE REQUIRED |
| List of RIC Subscriptions to Be Removed |  | One item |
| RIC Request ID | [2] 9.2.7 | Should be same as the RIC Request ID used during subscription procedure |
| RAN Function ID | [2] 9.2.8 | Should be same as RAN Function ID used during subscription |
| Cause | [2] 9.2.1 | Any valid cause |

The test is considered passed if

The purpose of this test case is to test the RIC Indication procedure of E2 Node as specified in [2] clause 8.2.3. This test is designed to be agnostic to the E2 Service Model and RAN functions. The RAN Function and RAN Function definition to which RIC Subscribes are predefined between the DUT (E2 Node) and the Test Simulator (Near-RT RIC). The expected outcome of this test is successful validation of the RIC INDICATION message associated with a REPORT Service from the E2 Node.

This testcase is mandatory if the DUT (E2 Node) claims to support E2AP RIC Indication procedure.

Step 1.  Initiate appropriate actions in the DUT (E2 Node) and connected test tools to trigger sending of RIC   INDICATION messages to Test Simulator (Near-RT RIC)

Step 2. At the Test Simulator (Near-RT RIC) the received and transmitted E2 messages are recorded.

Step 3. The Test Simulator does the following validation:

The received message is RIC INDICATION message as specified in [2] clause 9.1.1.7 and validated with information elements as specified in table below

| IE/Group Name | Reference | Presence | Configuration/ Value |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | M | RIC INDICATION |
| RIC Request ID | [2] 9.2.7 | M | Same as the RIC Request ID received in the corresponding RIC subscription procedure |
| RAN Function ID | [2] 9.2.8 | M | Same as the RAN Function ID indicated for the agreed RAN Function during E2 Setup procedure |
| RIC Action ID | [2] 9.2.10 | M | Same as the RIC Action ID received in the corresponding RIC subscription procedure |
| RIC Indication SN | [2] 9.2.14 | O | Sequence Number is optional and not validated in this test case |
| RIC Indication Type | [2] 9.2.15 | M | Report |
| RIC Indication Header | [2] 9.2.17 | M | OCTECT STRING , this IEs defined in RAN Function specific E2 Service Model [4] [5] [6] is outside the scope of this test. |
| RIC Indication Message | [2] 9.2.16 | M | OCTECT STRING , this IEs defined in RAN Function specific E2 Service Model [4] [5] [6] is outside the scope of this test. |
| RIC Call process ID | [2] 9.2.18 | O | Not applicable.  with RIC Action Type IE as "Insert" |

The test is considered passed if validation in step 3 is successful.

The purpose of this test case is to test the RIC Control procedure of E2 Node as specified in [2] clause 8.2.4. This test is designed to be agnostic to the E2 Service Model and RAN functions. The RAN Function and RAN Function definition to which RIC Subscribes are predefined between the DUT (E2 Node) and the Test Simulator (Near-RT RIC). The expected outcome of this test is successful RIC Control from Near-RT RIC to the E2 Node.

This testcase is mandatory if the DUT (E2 Node) claims to support E2AP RIC Control procedure.

| IE/Group Name | Reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | RIC CONTROL REQUEST |
| RIC Request ID | [2] 9.2.7 | Valid RIC Request ID |
| RAN Function ID | [2] 9.2.8 | Same as the RAN Function ID indicated for the agreed RAN Function during E2 Setup procedure |
| RIC Call Process ID | [2] 9.2.18 | Not applicable.  This IE shall only be used when RIC CONTROL REQUEST message is in response to RIC Subscription with RIC Action Type IE as "Insert" |
| RIC Control Header | [2] 9.2.20 | IEs defined in RAN Function specific E2 Service Model [4] [5] [6] is outside the scope of this test. |
| RIC Control Message | [2] 9.2.19 | IEs defined in RAN Function specific E2 Service Model [4] [5] [6] is outside the scope of this test. |
| RIC Control Ack Request | [2] 9.2.21 | Ack |

| IE/Group Name | Reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | [2] 9.2.3 | RIC CONTROL ACKNOWLEDGE |
| RIC Request ID | [2] 9.2.7 | Received RIC Request ID in RIC CONTROL REQUEST |
| RAN Function ID | [2] 9.2.8 | Same as the RAN Function ID indicated for the agreed RAN Function during E2 Setup procedure |
| RIC Call process ID | [2] 9.2.18 | Not applicable.  This IE shall only be used when RIC CONTROL REQUEST message is in response to RIC Subscription with RIC Action Type IE as "Insert" |
| RIC Control Outcome | [2] 9.2.25 | Not used |

The test is considered passed if

FFS

FFS

FFS

# Test Cases for Interoperability between Near-RT RIC and E2 Node

### Protocol Analyzer and TAP Interface

A TAP interface and a protocol analyzer may be used over the E2 interface to passively capture and analyze packets for test case validation. Alternatively, packet capture capabilities of the SUT may be used to capture packets for analysis to validate the test cases.  Captured pactets with associated analysis should be attached to the test report. When the following test cases refer to the protocol analyzer and the TAP interface, alternative E2 interface packet capture utilised as long as decoding and analysis have been performed and are available in the test report.

## Interoperability Test Cases

### Test Cases for E2AP Global Procedures

#### Near-RT RIC Support procedures

##### Test Purpose

The purpose of this test case is to test the interoperability of Near-RT RIC and E2 Node in the E2 interface management and Near-RT RIC support functions as specified in “O-RAN WG3: E2 General Aspects and Principles” [1] clause 5.5 and “O-RAN WG3: E2 Application Protocol” [2] clause 8.3. The expected outcome is successful establishment and management of the E2 interface in the SUT.

This test case is conditional mandatory if the SUT (Near-RT and E2 Node) claims to support E2AP global procedures with the exception of any test steps marked as optional.

##### Test Entrance Criteria

- Each element of the SUT (Near-RT RIC and E2 Node) supports E2AP global procedures
- (Optional) the Near-RT RIC element of the SUT has the ability to trigger a RIC SERVICE QUERY message (the optional steps 3 can be performed).
- (Optional) one element of the SUT (Near-RT RIC or E2 Node) has the ability to trigger E2 Removal procedure, (the optional step 8 can be performed).

##### Test Methodology

- Each element of the SUT (Near-RT RIC and E2 Node) are connected through E2 interface.
- Network between Near-RT RIC and E2 Node allows connectivity between the elements.
- Near-RT RIC and E2 Nodes are configured, through O1 interface or other vendor specific configuration interface, with the needed parameters for the association, in particular the transport layer parameters (Near-RT RIC address configured in E2 Node), RIC Service information and E2 node configuration.
- The status of the SCTP association and E2 setup procedure is in one of the following conditions condition A: SCTP association has not yet been established. Then E2 Node shall initiate the SCTP procedure during step 2 below. condition B: SCTP association has been established and configuration of the E2 Node is such that E2 Node is not yet sending any E2 SETUP REQUEST message towards Near-RT RIC. condition C: SCTP association has been established and E2 Node is sending E2 SETUP REQUEST messages to Near-RT RIC but configuration in Near-RT RIC is such that no E2 SETUP RESPONSE is sent back.
Step 1. Enable the protocoal analyzer to capture, record and decode the E2 signalling between SUT elements via the TAP interface.

Step 2. Depending on the initial condition 4), enable the E2 interface towards the associated element either in Near-RT RIC or in E2 Node, by configuration or by establishment of the physical connection.

E2 Node initiates E2 Setup procedure by sending E2 SETUP REQUEST message to the Near-RT RIC

Near-RT RIC sends E2 SETUP RESPONSE to E2 Node with the list of accepted and rejected RAN Functions

Step 3. (Optional) If the Near-RT RIC has the ability to trigger RIC SERVICE QUERY message towards the E2 Node, initiate appropriate action to trigger the procedure.

After reception of RIC SERVICE QUERY message, E2 Node sends RIC SERVICE UPDATE message to the Near-RT RIC. E2 Node may send RIC SERVICE UPDATE message without any IE except for Message Type IE as specified in [2] clause 8.3.4.2.

Near-RT RIC sends RIC SERVICE UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE message to the E2 Node.

Step 4. Take appropriate action to initiate on E2 Node one of the following RIC service configuration changes: -	Adding a new RAN Function -	Modifying an existing RAN Function -	Deleting an existing RAN Function

Step 5. E2 Node initiates RIC Service Update procedure by sending RIC SERVICE UPDATE message to the Near-RT RIC with the configuration change performed in Step 4.

Near-RT RIC sends RIC SERVICE UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE message to the E2 Node.

Step 6. Take appropriate action to initiate on the E2 Node one of the following E2 Node system configuration changes -	Adding a new E2 Node Component Configuration -	Updating an existing E2 Node Component Configuration -	Removing an existing E2 Node Component Configuration

Step 7. E2 Node triggers E2 Node Configuration Update procedure by sending E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE message to the Near-RT RIC.

Near-RT RIC sends E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE message to the E2 Node.

Step 8 (Optional) If one element of the SUT (Near-RT RIC or E2 Node) has the ability to trigger E2 Removal procedure, then initiate appropriate action to trigger the procedure. -	The element of the SUT (Near-RT RIC or E2 Node) initiating the E2 Removal procedure sends E2 REMOVAL REQUEST message. -	The other element sends E2 REMOVAL RESPONSE message to initiating element. -	The initiating element initiates the removal of the TNL associations.

The test is considered passed if

- All messages are correctly decoded by the protocol analyzer
- E2 logs recorded in the protocol analyzer for steps 1 to 8 above are aligned with successful operation message flows specified in [2] clause 8.3. and coherent with the configuration in E2 Node and Near-RT RIC
In particular the following procedures should be throughly validated:

E2 Setup procedure (Step 2): RAN Functions and E2 Node Component Configuration configured in E2 Node. are present in E2 SETUP message, and in E2 SETUP RESPONSE message RAN Functions Accepted List IE or RAN Functions Rejected List IE for RAN Functions and E2 Node Component Configuration Addition Acknowledge List IE for E2 Node Component Configurations.

RIC Service Update procedure (Step 5): RIC SERVICE UPDATE message is aligned with the modification performed in E2 Node configuration in Step 4. And the RAN Functions present in RIC SERVICE UPDATE message are present either in RAN Functions Accepted List IE or RAN Functions Rejected List IE of RIC SERVICE UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE message.

E2 Node Configuration Update procedure (Step 7) E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE message is aligned the modification performed in E2 Node configuration in Step 6. And the E2 Node Component Configurations present in E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE message are present in E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE message in the corresponding E2 Node Component Configuration Addition Acknowledge List, E2 Node Component Configuration Update Acknowledge List or E2 Node Component Configuration Removal Acknowledge List information elements.

If any of the following IEs is observed in the recorded E2 logs:

- RAN Functions Rejected List IE in E2 SETUP RESPONSE message or RIC SERVICE UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE message
- E2 Connection Failed to Setup List IE in E2 CONNECTION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE message
- Outcome IE from E2 Node Component Configuration Acknowledge IE is failure in E2 SETUP RESPONSE message or in E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE message
- Criticality diagnostics IE in E2 REMOVAL RESPONSE message
the test result shall be determined to be “successful with remarks”.

If a RESET procedure has been triggered by one the elements of the SUT, the test result shall determined to be “successful with remarks”

If any of the global procedures completes unsuccessfully or if an Error Indication procedure is triggered by one of the elements of the SUT, then the test result shall be determined as failed.

### Test Cases for E2AP Functional Procedures for E2SM-KPM

#### Tests cases for RIC REPORT Service Styles procedures E2SM-KPM

##### RIC Subscription and RIC Indication procedures with REPORT Service Style 1, Single Action Format Type 1, Indication Message Format Type 1

The purpose of this test case is to test the interoperability of Near-RT RIC and E2 Node in RAN function “O-RAN-E2SM-KPM” Report Service Style 1: E2 Node Measurement, as specified in [5] clause 7.4.2 The expected outcome is successful RIC Subscription and RIC Indication procedures by the SUT.

This test case is conditional mandatory if the SUT (Near-RT and E2 Node) claims to support RAN function “O-RAN-E2SM-KPM” Report Style 1.

- Each element of the SUT (Near-RT RIC and E2 Node) supports RAN function “O-RAN-E2SM-KPM” Report Style 1, Action Format Type 1, and Indication Message Format Type 1.
- Each element of the SUT (Near-RT RIC and E2 Node) supports RIC Subscription procedure and RIC Indication procedure for the above RAN Function.
- The Test Equipment (RU and UE simulator) has the ability to generate the traffic required for the agreed measurement.
- A reporting period for the measurement is agreed and configured in the SUT. The test duration is then selected to allow to cover several reporting periods.

| IE Name | Reference | Configuration / Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| RAN Function Name | [5] 8.3.2 |  |
| >RAN Function Short Name | [5] 8.3.2 | ORAN-E2SM-KPM |
| >RAN Function Service Model OID | [5] 8.3.2 | 1.3.6.1.4.1.53148.1.1.2.2 |
| > RAN Function Description | [5] 8.3.2 | KPM Monitor |
| Sequence of Event Trigger styles |  |  |
| >RIC Event Trigger Style Type | [5] 8.3.3 | 1 |
| >RIC Event Trigger Style Name | [5] 8.3.4 | Periodic Report |
| >RIC Event Trigger Format Type | [5] 8.3.5 | 1 |
| Sequence of Report styles |  |  |
| > RIC Report Style Type | [5] 8.3.3 | 1 |
| > RIC Report Style Name | [5] 8.3.4 | E2 Node Measurement |
| > RIC Report Action Format Type | [5] 8.3.5 | 1 |
| > Sequence of Measurement Info for Action |  |  |
| >> Measurement Type Name | [5] 8.3.9 | Name of one Measurement agreed for this test |
| >RIC Indication Header Format | [5] 8.3.5 | 1 |
| >RIC Indication Message Format | [5] 8.3.5 | 1 |

- The elements of the SUT (Near-RT RIC and E2 Node) are connected by E2 interface
- The E2 Setup procedure is successfully completed in the SUT with the agreed RAN Function Definition IE
Step 1. Enable the protocol analyzer to capture, record and decode the E2 signalling between SUT elements via the TAP interface

Step 2. Initiate in the Test Equipment the traffic required for the agreed measurement

Step 3. Perform RIC Subscription Request from the Near-RT RIC

Step 4. The Near-RT RIC initiates RIC Subscription procedure by sending RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST message to the E2 Node, with the agreed RAN Function Definition IE and measurement information

The E2 Node sends RIC SUBSCRIPTION RESPONSE to Near-RT RIC with the list of admitted and not admitted RAN Actions

The E2 Node sends periodic REPORT RIC INDICATION messages for the agreed RAN Function Definition with the agreed measurement to the Near-RT RIC

Step 5. The test is ended after the test duration defined in test entrance criteria, allowing the E2 Node to send several RIC INDICATION messages to the Near-RT RIC

The test is considered passed if

- All messages are correctly decoded by the protocol analyzer
- E2 logs recorded in the protocol analyzer are aligned with successful operation message flows specified in [2] clause 8.2. and consistent with the configuration in E2 Node and Near-RT RIC
- RIC Subscription procedure is successful and it is validated in recorded E2 logs that - RAN Function ID IE corresponds to the agreed RAN Function (during E2 Setup procedure) in both RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST and RIC SUBSCRIPTION RESPONSE messages - RIC REQUEST ID IE is the same in RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST, RIC SUBSCRIPTION RESPONSE and RIC INDICATION messages - RIC Action ID IE is the same in RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST message, in RIC Actions Admitted List IE of RIC SUBSCRIPTION RESPONSE message  and in RIC INDICATION message - RIC Action Definition IE in RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST message is E2SM-KPM Action Definition Format 1 with the agreed measurement.
- Periodicity of the RIC INDICATION messages in the recorded E2 logs corresponds with the value of Reporting Period IE from RIC Event Trigger Definition IE of RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST message as defined in [5] clause 8.2.1.1.1
- Measurement Type IE in the RIC INDICATION messages is the same as that in the RIC SUBSCRITPION REQUEST message
- Measurements reported by the E2 Node in the RIC Indication messages are consistent with the traffic simulated by the Test Equipment
If an Error Indication procedure is triggered during the test, then the test result shall be determined as failed.

If the agreed RIC Action ID IE is present in the RIC Actions Not Admitted List IE of RIC SUBSCRIPTION RESPONSE message, then the test result shall be determined as failed.

##### RIC Subscription and RIC Indication procedures with REPORT Service Style 2, Single Action Format Type 2, Indication Message Format Type 1

The purpose of this test case is to test the interoperability of Near-RT RIC and E2 Node in RAN function “O-RAN-E2SM-KPM” Report Service Style 2: E2 Node Measurement for a single UE, as specified in [5] clause 7.4.3 The expected outcome is successful RIC Subscription and RIC Indication procedures by the SUT.

This test case is conditional mandatory if the SUT (Near-RT and E2 Node) claims to support RAN function “O-RAN-E2SM-KPM” Report Style 2.

- Each element of the SUT (Near-RT RIC and E2 Node) supports RAN function “O-RAN-E2SM-KPM” Report Style 2, Action Format Type 2, and Indication Message Format Type 1
- Each element of the SUT (Near-RT RIC and E2 Node) supports RIC Subscription procedure and RIC Indication procedure for the above RAN Function
- The Test Equipment (RU and UE simulator) has the ability to generate the traffic required for the agreed measurement
- A reporting period for the measurement is agreed and configured in the SUT. The test duration is then selected to allow to cover several reporting periods

| IE Name | Reference | Configuration / Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| RAN Function Name | [5] 8.3.2 |  |
| >RAN Function Short Name | [5] 8.3.2 | ORAN-E2SM-KPM |
| >RAN Function Service Model OID | [5] 8.3.2 | 1.3.6.1.4.1.53148.1.1.2.2 |
| > RAN Function Description | [5] 8.3.2 | KPM Monitor |
| Sequence of Event Trigger styles |  |  |
| >RIC Event Trigger Style Type | [5] 8.3.3 | 1 |
| >RIC Event Trigger Style Name | [5] 8.3.4 | Periodic Report |
| >RIC Event Trigger Format Type | [5] 8.3.5 | 1 |
| Sequence of Report styles |  |  |
| > RIC Report Style Type | [5] 8.3.3 | 2 |
| > RIC Report Style Name | [5] 8.3.4 | E2 Node Measurement for a single UE |
| > RIC Report Action Format Type | [5] 8.3.5 | 2 |
| > Sequence of Measurement Info for Action |  |  |
| >> Measurement Type Name | [5] 8.3.9 | Name of one Measurement agreed for this test |
| >RIC Indication Header Format | [5] 8.3.5 | 1 |
| >RIC Indication Message Format | [5] 8.3.5 | 1 |

- The elements of the SUT (Near-RT RIC and E2 Node) are connected by E2 interface
- E2 Setup procedure is successfully completed in the SUT with the agreed RAN Function Definition IE
Step 1. Enable the protocol analyzer to capture, record and decode the E2 signalling between SUT elements via the TAP interface

Step 2. Initiate in the Test Equipment the traffic required for the agreed measurement

Step 3. Perform RIC Subscription Request from the Near-RT RIC.

Step 4. The Near-RT RIC initiates the RIC Subscription procedure by sending RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST message to the E2 Node, with the agreed RAN Function Definition IE and measurement information

The E2 Node sends RIC SUBSCRIPTION RESPONSE to Near-RT RIC with the list of admitted and not admitted RAN Actions

The E2 Node sends periodic REPORT RIC INDICATION messages for the agreed RAN Function Definition with the agreed measurement to the Near-RT RIC for the requested UE Id

Step 5. The test is ended after the test duration defined in test entrance criteria, allowing the E2 Node to send several RIC INDICATION messages to the Near-RT RIC

The test is considered passed if

- All messages are correctly decoded by the protocol analyzer
- E2 logs recorded in the protocol analyzer are aligned with successful operation message flows specified in [2] clause 8.2. and consistent with the configuration in E2 Node and Near-RT RIC
- RIC Subscription procedure is successful and it is validated in recorded E2 logs that - RAN Function ID IE corresponds to the agreed RAN Function (during E2 Setup procedure) in both RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST and RIC SUBSCRIPTION RESPONSE messages - RIC REQUEST ID IE is the same that in the RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST, RIC SUBSCRIPTION RESPONSE and RIC INDICATION messages - The RIC Action ID IE is the same as that in the RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST message in the RIC Actions Admitted List IE of the RIC SUBSCRIPTION RESPONSE message and in the RIC INDICATION message - The RIC Action Definition IE in the RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST message indicates E2SM-KPM Action Definition Format 1 with the agreed measurement
- Periodicity of the RIC INDICATION messages in the recorded E2 logs corresponds with the value of Reporting Period IE from RIC Event Trigger Definition IE of RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST message as defined in [5] clause 8.2.1.1.1
- The Measurement Type IE in the RIC INDICATION messages is the same as that in RIC SUBSCRITPION REQUEST message
- Measurements reported by E2 Node in the RIC Indication messages are consistent with the traffic simulated by the Test Equipment for the specified UE Id
If an Error Indication procedure is triggered during the test, then the test result shall be determined as failed.

If the agreed RIC Action ID IE is present in the RIC Actions Not Admitted List IE of RIC SUBSCRIPTION RESPONSE message, then the test result shall be determined as failed.

##### RIC Subscription and RIC Indication procedures with REPORT Service Style 3, Single Action Format Type 3, Indication Message Format Type 2

The purpose of this test case is to test the interoperability of Near-RT RIC and E2 Node in RAN function “O-RAN-E2SM-KPM” Report Service Style 3: Condition-based, UE-level E2 Node Measurement, as specified in [5] clause 7.4.4 The expected outcome is successful RIC Subscription and RIC Indication procedures by the SUT.

This test case is conditional mandatory if the SUT (Near-RT and E2 Node) claims to support RAN function “O-RAN-E2SM-KPM” Report Style 3.

- Each element of the SUT (Near-RT RIC and E2 Node) supports RAN function “O-RAN-E2SM-KPM” Report Style 3 and Action Format Type 3 and Indication Message Format Type 2
- The RAN Function to which RIC subscribes and the RAN Function definition are predefined and shared between the elements of the SUT (Near RT RIC and E2 Node). A Measurement Type as specified in [5] clause 8.3.9 is agreed along with a Matching Condition as specified in [5] clause 8.2.1.2.3. The agreed RAN Function Definition IE defined in [5] clause 8.2.2.1 is shown in table below

| IE Name | Reference | Configuration / Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| RAN Function Name | [5] 8.3.2 |  |
| >RAN Function Short Name | [5] 8.3.2 | ORAN-E2SM-KPM |
| >RAN Function Service Model OID | [5] 8.3.2 | 1.3.6.1.4.1.53148.1.1.2.2 |
| > RAN Function Description | [5] 8.3.2 | KPM Monitor |
| Sequence of Event Trigger styles |  |  |
| >RIC Event Trigger Style Type | [5] 8.3.3 | 1 |
| >RIC Event Trigger Style Name | [5] 8.3.4 | Periodic Report |
| >RIC Event Trigger Format Type | [5] 8.3.5 | 1 |
| Sequence of Report styles |  |  |
| > RIC Report Style Type | [5] 8.3.3 | 3 |
| > RIC Report Style Name | [5] 8.3.4 | E2 Node Measurement for a single UE |
| > RIC Report Action Format Type | [5] 8.3.5 | 3 |
| > Sequence of Measurement Info for Action |  |  |
| >> Measurement Type Name | [5] 8.3.9 | Name of one Measurement agreed for this test |
| >RIC Indication Header Format | [5] 8.3.5 | 1 |
| >RIC Indication Message Format | [5] 8.3.5 | 2 |

- Each element of the SUT (Near-RT RIC and E2 Node) supports RIC Subscription procedure and RIC Indication procedure for the above RAN Function
- The matching condition is sucessivley matched and unmatched for a given UE.
- An example of how this procedure can be performed (or triggered) is listed below. The exact method to perform (or trigger) this procedure is out of scope of this specification and is left up to the implementation of the DUT.
- For simplification in this test a single UE traffic is considered
- A reporting period for the measurement is agreed and configured in the SUT.
- Note: The test duration is then selected to allow to cover several reporting periods with the traffic scenario both matching and unmatching the agreed condition for the followed UE.
- The elements of the SUT (Near-RT RIC and E2 Node) are connected by E2 interface
- The E2 Setup procedure is successfully completed in the SUT with the agreed RAN Function Definition IE
Step 1. Enable the protocol analyzer to capture, record and decode the E2 signalling between SUT elements via the TAP interface

Step 2. Initiate in the Test Equipment the traffic required for the agreed measurement with the agreed condition being matched.

Step 3.Perform the RIC Subscription Request from the Near-RT RIC

- An example of how this procedure can be performed (or triggered) is listed below. The exact method to perform (or trigger) this procedure is out of scope of this specification and is left up to the implementation of the DUT.
Step 4. The Near-RT RIC initiates the RIC Subscription procedure by sending the RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST message to the E2 Node, with the agreed RAN Function Definition IE and measurement information (Measurement Type, Matching Condition and Granularity)

E2 Node sends RIC SUBSCRIPTION RESPONSE to Near-RT RIC with the list of admitted and not admitted RAN Actions

E2 Node sends periodic REPORT RIC INDICATION messages for the agreed RAN Function Definition with the agreed Measurement Data to the Near-RT RIC for the UE matching the agreed condition.

Step 5. Initiate in the Test Equipment the traffic required for the agreed measurement with the selected UE not matching the agreed condition

E2 Node sends periodic REPORT RIC INDICATION messages for the agreed RAN Function Definition omitting the List of matched UE IDs IE

Step 6. The test is ended after the test duration defined in test entrance criteria, allowing the E2 Node to send several RIC INDICATION messages to the Near-RT RIC.

The test is considered passed if

- All messages are correctly decoded by the protocol analyzer
- E2 logs recorded in the protocol analyzer are aligned with successful operation message flows specified in [2] clause 8.2. and consistent with the configuration in E2 Node and Near-RT RIC
- RIC Subscription procedure is successful and it is validated in recorded E2 logs that - RAN Function ID IE corresponds to the agreed the RAN Function (during E2 Setup procedure) in both RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST and RIC SUBSCRIPTION RESPONSE messages - RIC REQUEST ID IE is the same as that in the RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST, RIC SUBSCRIPTION RESPONSE and RIC INDICATION messages - RIC Action ID IE is the same as that in the RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST message, in the RIC Actions Admitted List IE of the RIC SUBSCRIPTION RESPONSE message and in the RIC INDICATION message - RIC Action Definition IE in the RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST message is E2SM-KPM Action Definition Format 1 with the agreed Measurement Type IE and agreed Matching Condition IE
- The periodicity of the RIC INDICATION messages in the recorded E2 logs corresponds with the value of Reporting Period IE from the RIC Event Trigger Definition IE of the RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST message as defined in [5] clause 8.2.1.1.1
- Measurement Type IE in the RIC INDICATION messages is the same as that in RIC SUBSCRITPION REQUEST message
- During the period covered by step 4, where the selected UE is matching the agreed condition, the UE ID IE of the selected UE in the Test Equipment is present in List of matched UE IDs IE of the RIC INDICATION messages sent by the E2 Node
- During the period covered by step 5, where the selected UE is not matching the agreed condition, the UE ID IE of the selected UE in the Test Equipment is absent from List of matched UE IDs IE of the RIC INDICATION messages sent by the E2 Node. List of matched UE IDs IE is omitted if no UE is matching the agreed condition during the reporting period
- Measurements reported by E2 Node in RIC Indication messages are consistent with the traffic simulated by the Test Equipment for the specified UE Id
If an Error Indication procedure is triggered during the test, then the test result shall be determined as failed.

If the agreed RIC Action ID IE is present in the RIC Actions Not Admitted List IE of RIC SUBSCRIPTION RESPONSE message, then the test result shall be determined as failed.

#### Tests cases for RIC INSERT Service Styles procedures E2SM-KPM

Note: No test case defined.

#### Tests cases for RIC CONTROL Service Styles procedures E2SM-KPM

Note: No test case defined.

#### Tests cases for RIC POLICY Service Styles procedures E2SM-KPM

Note: No test case defined.

#### Tests cases for RIC Subscription Delete procedures E2SM-KPM

##### RIC Subscription Delete procedure with RIC Event Trigger Style 1

The purpose of this test case is to test the interoperability of Near-RT RIC and E2 Node for RIC Subscription Delete as specified in [2] clause 8.2.2 for Service Model “O-RAN-E2SM-KPM” as specified in [5]. The expected outcome is successful RIC Subscription Delete procedure by the SUT.

This test case is mandatory if the SUT (Near-RT and E2 Node) claims to support any RAN function in “O-RAN-E2SM-KPM” Service Model using RIC Event Trigger Style 1.

- Each element of the SUT (Near-RT RIC and E2 Node) supports a common RAN Function in “O-RAN-E2SM-KPM” Service Model using RIC Event Trigger Style 1
- Each element of the SUT (Near-RT RIC and E2 Node) supports RIC Subscription Delete procedure for the above RAN Function
- A reporting period for the measurement is agreed and configured in the SUT. The test duration is then selected to allow to cover several reporting periods

| IE Name | Reference | Configuration / Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| RAN Function Name | [5] 8.3.2 |  |
| >RAN Function Short Name | [5] 8.3.2 | ORAN-E2SM-KPM |
| >RAN Function Service Model OID | [5] 8.3.2 | 1.3.6.1.4.1.53148.1.1.2.2 |
| > RAN Function Description | [5] 8.3.2 | KPM Monitor |
| Sequence of Event Trigger styles |  |  |
| >RIC Event Trigger Style Type | [5] 8.3.3 | 1 |
| >RIC Event Trigger Style Name | [5] 8.3.4 | Periodic Report |
| >RIC Event Trigger Format Type | [5] 8.3.5 | 1 |
| Sequence of Report styles |  |  |
| > RIC Report Style Type | [5] 8.3.3 | 1 |
| > RIC Report Style Name | [5] 8.3.4 | E2 Node Measurement |
| > RIC Report Action Format Type | [5] 8.3.5 | 1 |
| > Sequence of Measurement Info for Action |  |  |
| >> Measurement Type Name | [5] 8.3.9 | Name of one Measurement agreed for this test |
| >RIC Indication Header Format | [5] 8.3.5 | 1 |
| >RIC Indication Message Format | [5] 8.3.5 | 1 |

- The SUT has functionality to trigger RIC Subscription Delete procedure
- The elements of the SUT (Near-RT RIC and E2 Node) are connected by E2 interface
- E2 Setup procedure is successfully completed in the SUT with the agreed RAN Function Definition IE
- RIC Subscription procedure is successfully completed in the SUT with the agreed RIC Request ID and RAN Function ID
Step 1. Enable the protocol analyzer to capture, record and decode the E2 signalling between SUT elements via the TAP interface.

Step 2. Perform the RIC Subscription Delete procedure

Near-RT RIC sends the RIC SUBSCRIPTION DELETE REQUEST message to the E2 Node, with the agreed RIC Request ID and RAN Function ID

E2 Node sends RIC SUBSCRIPTION DELETE RESPONSE to the Near-RT RIC with the agreed RIC Request ID and RAN Function ID

Step 3. The test is ended after the test duration defined in test entrance criteria, allowing the E2 Node to cover several Reporting periods after the RIC SUBSCRIPTION DELETE RESPONSE message is received

The test is considered passed if

- All messages are correctly decoded by the protocol analyser
- E2 logs recorded in the protocol analyzer are aligned with successful operation message flows specified in [2] clause 8.2.2.
- RIC Subscription Delete procedure is successful and it is validated in recorded E2 logs that - RAN Function ID IE corresponds to the agreed RAN Function (during E2 Setup procedure and RIC Subscription procedure) in both RIC SUBSCRIPTION DELETE REQUEST and RIC SUBSCRIPTION DELETE RESPONSE messages - RIC REQUEST ID IE is the same as that in RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST, RIC SUBSCRIPTION RESPONSE and RIC INDICATION messages
- - RIC REQUEST ID IE corresponds to the agreed RIC Request ID (during RIC Subscription procedure) in both the RIC SUBSCRIPTION DELETE REQUEST and RIC SUBSCRIPTION DELETE RESPONSE messages
- No RIC Indication messages are sent for the agreed RAN Function ID and RIC Request ID after the E2 Node sends the RIC SUBSCRIPTION DELETE message
If an Error Indication procedure is triggered during the test, then the test result shall be determined as failed.

If RIC SUBSCRIPTION DELETE FAILURE message is sent by E2 Node, then the test result shall be determined as failed.

### Test Cases for E2AP Functional Procedures for E2SM-RC

- FFS

### Test Cases for E2AP Functional Procedures for E2SM-NI

- FSS

# Revision history

| Date | Revision | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 2021.08.24 | 00.00.01 | Draft Skeleton Proposal agreed WG3#111 |
| 2022.01.21 | 00.00.02 | Added approved CRs  Addition of: <VIA-2021.10.28-WG3-CR-0001-Near-RT RIC E2 conformance test configuration-v04> agreed WG3#125  <VIA-2021.10.28-WG3-CR-0003-Near-RT RIC E2 conformance test case-E2 Setup procedures-v04> agreed#125 <VIA-2021.10.28-WG3-CR-0002-E2 Interface Test specification-scope and reference-v02> agreed#125 |
| 2022.02.01 | 01.00.03 | Added approved CRs Addition of: < VIA.AO-2021.12.10-WG3-CR-0003-Near-RT RIC E2 conformance test case-RIC Subscription-v03>  agreed WG3#129 < KEY.AO-2021.11.23-WG3-CR-0002-Near-RT RIC E2 Procedures-NI-Subscription_Report_style_1_V05> agreed WG3#129 < KEY-2021.11.18-WG3-CR-0001-Near-RT_RIC_KPM_Subscription_Action_Type1-v06> agreed WG3#129 |
| 2022.02.28 | 01.00.04 | Added approved CRs < TCS.AO-2022.02.01-WG3-CR-0001-Near-RT RIC E2 conformance test case-RIC Subscription Delete-v01> agreed WG3#131 <KEY.AO-2022.02.02-WG3-CR-0003-Near_RT_RIC_Reset_RIC_Initiated-v01> agreed WG3#131 <KEY.AO-2022.02.02-WG3-CR-0004-Near_RT_RIC_Reset_E2_Node_Initiated-v01> agreed WG3#131<KEY.AO-2022.02.03-WG3-CR-0005-E2Node-Setup_Procedure-v01> agreed WG3#131 Corrected numbering to position test cases appropriately |
| 2022.03.29 | 01.00.05 | Added approved CRs Added  links to cross referenced clauses, added cross reference for tables, removed un-uncessary spaces < JIO.AO-2022.03.28-WG3-CR-0003-Editorial_changes_updated_baseline_v01.docx> agreed WG#138 <KEY.AO-2022.03.03-WG3-CR-0011-E2Node-E2_Connection_Update_Procedure-v01.docx> agreed WG#138 <KEY.AO-2022.03.05-WG3-CR-0012-E2-Node_RIC_Subscription _Procedure-v01.docx> agreed WG#138 <KEY.AO-2022.03.10-WG3-CR-0013-E2-Node_Removal_Procedure-E2_Node_DUT-v01.docx> agreed WG#138 <KEY.AO-2022.03.02-WG3-CR-0008-E2Node-RIC_Service_Update_Procedure-v01.docx agreed WG3#137> <VIA.AO-2022.03.14-WG3-CR-0010-Near-RT RIC E2 conformance test case-RIC Control-v01> agreed WG3#136 <VIA.AO-2022.03.14-WG3-CR-0011-E2 Node E2 AP conformance test case-RIC Control-v01> agreed WG3#136 <KEY.AO-2022.03.16-WG3-CR-0018- Adding-additional-level-to-organize-test-cases-v02> agreed WG3#136 <KEY.AO-2022.03.13-WG3-CR-0017-Test-Configuration-Description-E2-Nodes-v01> agreed WG3#136 <KEY.AO-2022.03.12-WG3-CR-0016-E2Node-E2_Node_Configuration_Update_Procedure-v01> agreed WG3#136 <KEY.AO-2022.03.10-WG3-CR-0015-Near-RT RIC-E2_Connection_Update_Procedure-v01> agreed WG3#136 <KEY.AO-2022.03.10-WG3-CR-0014-E2-Node_Removal_Procedure-Near-RT RIC_DUT-v01> agreed WG3#136  <Jio.AO-2022.03.10-WG3-CR-0001-Near-RTRIC-Error_Indication_Procedure-v01> agreed WG3#136  <JIO.AO-2022.03.10-WG3-CR-0002-E2Node-Error_Indication_Procedure-v01> agreed WG3#136  < KEY.AO-2022.02.22-WG3-CR-0007-Near-RT RIC-RIC_Service_Update_Procedure-v02.docx> agreed WG#135 < KEY.AO-2022.03.03-WG3-CR-0009-E2-Node_Reset_Procedure-Near-RT RIC_initiated-v01.docx> agreed WG#135 < KEY.AO-2022.03.03-WG3-CR-0010-E2-Node_Reset_Procedure-E2_Node_initiated-v01.docx> agreed WG#135 < VIA.AO-2022.03.02-WG3-CR-0004-Near-RT RIC E2 conformance test case-RIC Indication-v01.docx> agreed WG#135 < VIA.AO-2022.03.02-WG3-CR-0005-Near-RT RIC E2 conformance test case-KPM Report Serivce style 1-v01.docx> agreed WG#135 < VIA.AO-2022.03.02-WG3-CR-0006-Near-RT RIC E2 conformance test case-KPM Report Serivce style 2-v01.docx> agreed WG#135 < VIA.AO-2022.03.02-WG3-CR-0007-Near-RT RIC E2 conformance test case-KPM Subscription Action type2-v01.docx> agreed WG#135 < VIA.AO-2022.03.02-WG3-CR-0009-E2 Node E2 AP conformance test case-RIC Indication-v01.docx> agreed WG#135 < VIA.AO-2022.03.02-WG3-CR-0008-Adding Missing Event Trigger to test case 5.2.3.1 KPM_v01.docx> agreed WG#135 < TCS.AO-2022.03.08-WG3-CR-0003-E2Node conformance test case-RIC Subscription Delete-v01.docx> agreed WG#135 < TCS.AO-2022.03.08-WG3-CR-0004-E2 Node conformance test case-RIC Subscription Delete Required-v02.docx> agreed WG#135 < KEY.AO-2022.02.27-WG3-CR-0006-Near-RT RIC E2 Node Configuration Update-v03.docx> agreed WG#134 < TCS.AO-2022.02.18-WG3-CR-0002-Near-RT RIC E2 conformance test case-RIC Subscription Delete Required-v01.docx> agreed WG#134 |
| 2022.06.29 | 01.00 | Removed third digit from version information. |
| 2022.10.25 | 01.00.07 | Added approved CRs <TCS.AO-2022.04.15-WG3-CR-0005-E2Node conformance test case-RIC Subscription Delete Request-v02.docx> agreed WG#152 <KEY.AO-20220705-WG3-CR-0020-Editorial_corrections-v01.docx> agreed WG#162 <KEY.AO-20220613-WG3-CR-0019-E2_IOT_Testing_Methodology-v04.docx> agreed WG3 Madrid F2F Oct 2022 <KEY.AO-20220907-WG3-CR-0021-IOT Near-RT RIC support procedures-v05.docx> agreed WG3 Madrid F2F Oct 2022 <CMCC.AO-2022.10.10-WG3-CR-0001-E2TS Near-RT RIC Conformance E2SM-KPM RIC Subscription procedure negative test cases-v01.docx> agreed WG3 Madrid F2F Oct 2022 <CMCC.AO-2022.10.10-WG3-CR-0002-E2TS Near-RT RIC Conformance E2SM-KPM RIC Subscription procedure multiple measurements-v01.docx> agreed WG3 Madrid F2F Oct 2022 <CMCC.AO-2022.10.10-WG3-CR-0003- E2TS Near-RT RIC Conformance E2SM-KPM RIC Indication procedure multiple measurements-v01.docx> agreed WG3 Madrid F2F Oct 2022 <KEY.AO-20220929-WG3-CR-0022-IOT_E2SM-KPM-v02.docx> agreed WG3 Madrid F2F Oct 2022 |
| 2022.11.09 | 01.00.08 | Updated document structure according to new TS template. Change copyright year to be 2023, Ready for WG3 internal review |
| 2022.11.18 | 01.00.09 | Changes reflecting remarks received during WG3 approval process - Added R003 to file name - Updated clause 6.2.1.2	 heading to Test Cases for RESET procedure - Updated Table of content |
| 2022.11.20 | 02.00 | Ready for TSC approval and publication |

# History

| Date | Revision | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 2022.04.11 | 01.00.06 | Published as Final version 01.00 |


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG3.O1-Interface-for-Near-RT-RIC-R003-v01.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG3.O1-Interface-for-Near-RT-RIC-R003-v01.00 O-RAN Work Group 3 O1 Interface Specification for Near Real Time RAN Intelligent Controller"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms

For the purposes of the present document, the terms [given in [i.1] and the following] apply:

N/A

## 3.2 Symbols

For the purposes of the present document, the symbols [given in [i.1] and the following] apply:

N/A

## 3.3 Abbreviations

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations [given in [i.1] and the following] apply:

- **FCAPS**: Fault, Configuration, Accounting, Performance, Security
- **FM**: Fault Management
- **IOC**: Information Object Class
- **ME**: Managed Element
- **MF**: Managed Function
- **MnS**: Management Service
- **MO**: Managed Object
- **MOI**: Managed Object Instance
- **Near-RT RIC**: O-RAN Near Real Time RAN Intelligent Controller
- **NETCONF**: NETwork CONFiguration protocol
- **NF**: Network Function
- **Non-RT RIC**: O-RAN Non-Real Time RAN Intelligent Controller
- **PM**: Performance Management or Performance Measurements
SMO				Service Management and Orchestration

- **TR**: Technical Report

# 4 Management Services

## 4.1 Provisioning Management Services

Provisioning Management Services MnS for Near RT RIC platform shall be aligned with [5], Chapter 2.1

## 4.2 Fault Supervision Management Services

Fault Supervision MnS for Near RT RIC platform shall be aligned with [5], Chapter 2.2

### 4.2.1 Requirements

Fault Management for the Near-RT RIC Platform is based on the O-RAN-WG1.O1-Interface, “O-RAN Operations and Maintenance Interface Specification [5] The relevant sections are:

- 4.1.10 	Subscription Control
- 4.2.1 	Fault Notification
- 4.2.2 	Fault Supervision Control

## 4.3 Performance Assurance Management Services

Performance Assurance Management Services MnS for Near RT RIC platform shall be aligned with [5], Chapter 2.3

## 4.4 Trace Management Services

5	Model

5.1	Imported and associated information entities

5.1.1		Imported information entities and local labels

| Label reference | Local label |
| --- | --- |
| TS 28.622 [21], IOC, ManagedFunction | ManagedFunction |
| TS 28.622 [21], IOC, EP_RP | EP_RP |
| O-RAN.WG10.Information Model and Data Models | ManagedApplication |

5.1.2		Associated information entities and local labels

| Label reference | Local label |
| --- | --- |
| TS 28.622 [21], IOC, ManagedElement | ManagedElement |

5.2	Class Diagrams

5.2.1		Relationships

@startuml

skinparam ClassStereotypeFontStyle normal

hide empty members

class        ManagedElement	<<InformationObjectClass>>

class       “NearRTRICFunction” as ric	<<InformationObjectClass>>

class       “EP_E2” as E2	<<InformationObjectClass>>

class        “E2 Node” as bts	<<proxyClass>>

ric “*” -d-* “1” ManagedElement : <<names>>

ric “1” *-right-“*” E2 : <<names>>

E2 “*” -right-> “    0..1” bts : “      “

note top of bts  Proxy class representing  any of the following E2 EndPoints:

O-CU-CP

O-CU-UP

O-DU

O-eNB

end note

@enduml

Figure 5.2.1-1: Near RT RIC Containment

Further disaggregation of the internal NearRTRICFunction management is FFS.

5.2.2		Inheritance

@startuml

hide empty members

skinparam ClassStereotypeFontStyle normal

class NearRTRICFunction <<InformationObjectClass>>

Abstract ManagedFunction <<InformationObjectClass>>

ManagedFunction  <|--  NearRTRICFunction

@enduml

Figure 5.2.2-1: Near-RT RIC Function inheritance

@startuml

hide empty members

skinparam ClassStereotypeFontStyle normal

abstract class EP_RP <<InformationObjectClass>>

class EP_E2 <<InformationObjectClass>>

EP_RP  <|--  EP_E2

@enduml

Figure 5.2.2-2: EP_E2 Inheritance

@startuml xApp inheritance (2022-11-04)

skin rose

skinparam ClassStereotypeFontStyle normal

skinparam style strictuml

hide empty members

abstract class ManagedApplication <<InformatioObjectClass>>

class TrafficSteeringFunction <<InformationObjectClass, FFS/example>>

ManagedApplication <|-d- TrafficSteeringFunction

note right of ManagedApplication

defined in WG10 IM/DM

clause 3.5.3.1

end note

note right of TrafficSteeringFunction

WG3 work in progress

and other "future" Functions

end note

@enduml

NOTE: This figure will be removed in the next version of the current document and replaced by one or more concrete xApp Use Cases

Figure 5.2.2-2: Example of inheritance from ManagedApplication

5.3		Class Definitions

5.3.1		NearRTRICFunction

5.3.1.1		Definition

The NearRTRICFunction IOC represents the Management aspects of the aggregated functions making up the Near-Rt RIC defined in clause 4.3.2  of O-RAN.WG1.O-RAN-Architecture-Description.

5.3.1.2		Attributes

The NearRTRICFunction IOC includes the attributes below and those attributes inherited through ManagedFunction IOC (defined in TS 28.622 [21]).

| Attribute Name | S | isReadable | isWritable | isInvariant | isNotifyable |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| PLMN Identity (3GPP 38.423 Clause 9.2.2.4) | M | T | F |  |  |
| Near-RT RIC ID | M | T | F |  |  |
| Attribute related to role |  |  |  |  |  |
| applicationDNList | M | T | F |  |  |

5.3.1.3		Attribute constraints

None

5.3.1.4		Notifications

None

5.3.2	EP_E2

The common notifications defined in clause 4.5 in TS 28.622 [21] are valid for this IOC

5.3.2.1	Definition

The EP-E2 IOC represents the Management aspects of the E2T defined in RICArch [4] section 6.2.

5.3.2.2		Attributes

The EP_E2 IOC includes the attributes below and those attributes inherited through EP_RP  IOC (defined in TS 28.622 [21])

| Attribute Name | S | isReadable | isWritable | isInvariant | isNotifyable |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| tRICEventCreate | O | T | F |  |  |
| tRICEventDelete | O | T | F |  |  |
| tRICControl | O | T | F |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |

5.3.2.3		Attribute constraints

None

5.3.2.4		Notifications

None

5.5 	Attribute definitions

5.5.1 	Attribute properties

| Attribute Name | Documentation and Allowed Values | Properties |
| --- | --- | --- |
| tRICEventCreate | Defined in O-RAN.WG3.E2AP Clause 9.5 Specifies the maximum time for the RIC Subscription Request event creation procedure in the E2 Node.  allowedValues: [0..4095] ms | type: Integer multiplicity: 1 isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: Null isNullable: True |
| tRICEventelete | Defined in O-RAN.WG3.E2AP Clause 9.5 Specifies the maximum time for the RIC Subscription Request event deletion procedure in the E2 Node.  allowedValues: [0..4095] ms | type: Integer multiplicity: 1 isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: Null isNullable: True |
| tRICControl | Defined in O-RAN.WG3.E2AP Clause 9.5 Specifies the maximum time for the RIC Control Request event request procedure in the E2 Node.  allowedValues: [0..4095] ms | type: Integer multiplicity: 1 isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: Null isNullable: True |
| applicationDNList | This attribute contains the DNs of the hosted applications (MOIs of the concrete IOCs inheriting from ManagedApplication).   allowedValues: Not applicable. | type: DN multiplicity: 0..* isOrdered: False isUnique: True defaultValue: None isNullable: False |
| nearRTRICID | Defined in O-RAN.WG3.E2AP-v02.01 Clause 9.2.4 |  |
| pLMNIdentity | Defined in 3GPP 38.423 Clause 9.2.2.4 |  |

# Revision history

| Date | Revision | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 2021.09.27 | 00.00.01 | First draft of O-RAN OAM Interface Specification for Near RT RIC |
| 2021.11.05 | 00.00.02 | Incorporating CRs NOK0001 and NOK0002 |
| 2022.01.08 | 00.00.03 | Document updated to incorporate CRs NOK0003 and CR NOK0007 rev8 |
| 2022.07.20 | 00.00.04 | New Baseline |
| 2022.11.09 | 00.00.05 | Baseline for November train |
| 2022.11.17 | 00.00.06 | Addressing review comments |
| 2022.11.18 | 01.00 | Candidate for November train |


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG3.RICAPI-R003-v02.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG3.RICAPI-R003-v02.00 O-RAN Work Group 3 (Near-Real-time RAN Intelligent Controller and E2 Interface)   Near-RT RIC APIs"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms

For the purposes of the present document, the following terms apply:

Near-RT RIC: as defined in [2].

Near-RT RIC APIs: interfaces that connect xApp and Near-RT RIC platform.

Near-RT RIC Platform: a software platform to host xApps. The Near-RT RIC is comprised of the Near-RT RIC Platform and xApps.

xApp: as defined in [2].

## 3.2 Symbols

No Symbol is defined in this document.

## 3.3 Abbreviations

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply:

- **API**: Application Programming Interface
- **Near-RT RIC**: Near-real-time RAN Intelligent Controller
- **PTI**: Procedure Transaction Identity

# 4 General

## 4.1 Introduction

Clause 4 specifies the principles and conventions commonly applied to Near-RT RIC API design with the Network API approach as described in clause 7.1.2 of [2].

## 4.2 General Principles

For each Near-RT RIC API, the following principles should be followed:

- -	A default solution that includes network protocol and message encoding should be defined to ensure interoperability. The default solution requires mandatory support by all Near-RT RIC platforms and xApps. The optional protocols available for a given APIs are discoverable by xApps.
- -	The IEs in the Near-RT RIC API which refer to different specifications shall be encoded as defined in the referred specification.
The common data types applicable to several API categories should be collected in clause 10.

In addition, the following design principles shall apply:

- Parallel transactions, i.e., multiple ongoing Near-RT RIC API procedures of the same types related to the same xApp, and platform functionality are supported.

## 4.3 Version Control

An API version shall consist of at least 3 fields, following a MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH pattern according to the Semantic Versioning Specification [i.1] unless specified otherwise.

The basic rules as reproduced from [i.1] shall apply for incrementing the versions:

- -	MAJOR version is incremented if backward incompatible change is made.
- -	MINOR version is incremented if functional change is made in a backward compatible way.
- -	PATCH version is incremented if correction is made in a backward compatible way.

# 5 A1-related API

## 5.1 Overview

5.1.1	Protocol Stack

In this version of specification, the default protocol stack for the A1 related APIs is shown on Figure 5.1.1-1.

Note: the network layer for security protection is FFS.

Figure 5.1.1-1: Protocol stack for A1 related APIs

The A1 related APIs use gRPC [5] with Protocol Buffers [4] as the application layer serialization protocol.

5.1.2	List of A1 related APIs, procedures and messages

The A1 related API procedures introduced in clause 9.2 of [2] are categorized under the A1 related APIs. These APIs include:

These APIs are summarized in Table 5.1.2-1.

| API Name | Description |
| --- | --- |
| A1_Policy_API | Service for A1 policy related operations |
| A1_EI_API | Service for A1 enrichment information related operations |

The table 5.1.2-2 lists the API procedures for each A1 related API.

| API Name | API procedure | Communication type |
| --- | --- | --- |
| A1_Policy_API | A1 Policy Setup | Request/Response |
| A1_Policy_API | A1 Policy Update | Request/Response |
| A1_Policy_API | A1 Policy Delete | Request/Response |
| A1_Policy_API | A1 Policy Query | Request/Response |
| A1_Policy_API | A1 Policy Status Update | Request/Response |
| A1_EI_API | A1 EI Subscription Setup | Request/Response |
| A1_EI_API | A1 EI Subscription Update | Request/Response |
| A1_EI_API | A1 EI Subscription Delete | Request/Response |
| A1_EI_API | A1 EI Delivery | Notify |
| A1_EI_API | A1 EI Query | Request/Response |

The table 5.1.2-3 lists the messages for each A1 related API procedure.

| API Procedure | Initiated by | Initiating Message | Outcome Message |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| API Procedure | Initiated by | Initiating Message | Successful Outcome | Unsuccessful Outcome |
| A1 Policy Setup | Near-RT RIC platform | A1 POLICY SETUP REQUEST | A1 POLICY SETUP RESULT (SUCCESS) | A1 POLICY SETUP RESULT (FAILURE) |
| A1 Policy Update | Near-RT RIC platform | A1 POLICY UPDATE REQUEST | A1 POLICY UPDATE RESULT (SUCCESS) | A1 POLICY UPDATE RESULT (FAILURE) |
| A1 Policy Delete | Near-RT RIC platform | A1 POLICY DELETE REQUEST | A1 POLICY DELETE RESULT (SUCCESS) | A1 POLICY DELETE RESULT (FAILURE) |
| A1 Policy Query | Near-RT RIC platform | A1 POLICY QUERY REQUEST | A1 POLICY QUERY RESULT (SUCCESS) | A1 POLICY QUERY RESULT (FAILURE) |
| A1 Policy Status Update | xApp | A1 POLICY STATUS UPDATE | A1 POLICY STATUS UPDATE ACK | A1 POLICY STATUS UPDATE ERROR |
| A1 EI Subcription Setup | xApp | A1 EI SUBSCRIPTION SETUP REQUEST | A1 EI SUBSCRIPTION SETUP RESULT (SUCCESS) | A1 EI SUBSCRIPTION SETUP RESULT (FAILURE) |
| A1 EI Subcription Update | xApp | A1 EI SUBSCRIPTION UPDATE REQUEST | A1 EI SUBSCRIPTION UPDATE RESULT (SUCCESS) | A1 EI SUBSCRIPTION UPDATE RESULT (FAILURE) |
| A1 EI Subcription Delete | xApp | A1 EI SUBSCRIPTION DELETE REQUEST | A1 EI SUBSCRIPTION DELETE RESULT (SUCCESS) | A1 EI SUBSCRIPTION DELETE RESULT (FAILURE) |
| A1 EI Delivery | Near-RT RIC platform | - |  |  |
| A1 EI Query | xApp | A1 EI QUERY REQUEST | A1 EI QUERY RESULT (SUCCESS) | A1 EI QUERY RESULT (FAILURE) |

## 5.2 A1-related API Procedures

### 5.2.1 A1 Policy Setup procedure

#### 5.2.1.1 General

The purpose of the A1 Policy Setup procedure is to enable the execution of the transferred A1 policy.

#### 5.2.1.2 Successful operation

Figure 5.2.1.2-1 : A1 Policy Setup procedure, successful operation

The Near-RT RIC Platform initiates the procedure by sending A1 POLICY SETUP REQUEST message to xApp.

The A1 POLICY SETUP REQUEST message shall contain the information required by the xApp to setup one A1 policy including A1 Policy Type ID IE, A1 Policy ID IE, and A1 Policy Object IE.

Upon reception of the A1 POLICY SETUP REQUEST message, the xApp shall transform the received A1 policy into appropriate E2 / A1-EI operation(s) requirements, and shall trigger Near-RT RIC Platform to accommodate E2 / A1-EI operation(s) requirements.

If Near-RT RIC Platform is able to accommodate E2 / A1-EI operation(s) requirements, xApp replies A1 POLICY SETUP RESULT message with A1 Policy Setup Result IE set to success to Near-RT RIC Platform. And xApp should store the received A1 Policy Type ID IE, A1 Policy ID IE, A1 Policy Object IE as basic elements of A1 policy profile, and label the status of corresponding A1 policy as “enforced”.

#### 5.2.1.3 Unsuccessful operation

Figure 5.2.1.3-1 : A1 Policy Setup procedure, unsuccessful operation

If xApp cannot transform the received A1 policy into appropriate E2 / A1-EI operation(s) requirements due to unsupported A1 policy type, xApp replies A1 POLICY SETUP RESULT message with A1 Policy Setup Result IE set to failure to Near-RT RIC Platform, possible with Cause IE set to Not supported A1 policy type.

If xApp cannot transform the received A1 policy into appropriate E2 / A1-EI operation(s) requirements due to violation of of the requirements as stated in 5.2.1.2.2, 5.2.2.2.2, 5.2.3.2.2, 5.2.4.2.2, 5.2.5.2.2, 5.2.6.2.2, 5.2.7.2.2 and 5.2.8.2.2 of [7], xApp replies A1 POLICY SETUP RESULT message with A1 Policy Setup Result IE set to failure to Near-RT RIC Platform, possible with Cause IE set to Not allowed statements, restrictions and extensions.

If Near-RT RIC Platform cannot accommodate E2 / A1-EI operation(s) requirements, xApp replies A1 POLICY SETUP RESULT message with A1 Policy Setup Result IE set to failure to Near-RT RIC Platform, possible with Cause IE set to Near-RT RIC Platform cannot accommodate E2 / A1-EI operations requirements.

#### 5.2.1.4 Abnormal conditions

If A1 policy indicated by A1 Policy Type ID IE, A1 Policy ID IE contained in A1 POLICY SETUP REQUEST message is being enforced by xApp, xApp replies A1 POLICY SETUP RESULT message with A1 Policy Setup Result IE set to failure to Near-RT RIC Platform, possible with Cause IE set to A1 policy already enabled at xApp.

### 5.2.2 A1 Policy Update procedure

#### 5.2.2.1 General

The purpose of the A1 Policy Update procedure is to update the execution of the transferred A1 policy.

#### 5.2.2.2 Successful operation

Figure 5.2.2.2-1 : A1 Policy Update procedure, successful operation

The Near-RT RIC Platform initiates the procedure by sending A1 POLICY UPDATE REQUEST message to xApp.

The A1 POLICY UPDATE REQUEST message shall contain the information required by the xApp to update one A1 policy including A1 Policy Type ID IE, A1 Policy ID IE, and A1 Policy Object IE.

Upon reception of the A1 POLICY SETUP REQUEST message, the xApp shall transform the received A1 policy into appropriate E2 / A1-EI operation(s) requirements. If the transformed E2 / A1-EI operation(s) requirements are the same as before, xApp replies A1 POLICY UPDATE RESULT message with A1 Policy Update Result IE set to success to Near-RT RIC Platform; else, xApp shall trigger Near-RT RIC Platform to accommodate E2 / A1-EI operation(s) requirements.

If Near-RT RIC Platform to accommodate E2 / A1-EI operation(s) requirements succeeds, xApp replies A1 POLICY UPDATE RESULT message with A1 Policy Update Result IE set to success to Near-RT RIC Platform. And xApp should update the stored information of A1 Policy Object IE of A1 policy profile, and label the status of corresponding A1 policy as “enforced”.

#### 5.2.2.3 Unsuccessful operation

Figure 5.2.2.3-1 : A1 Policy Update procedure, unsuccessful operation

If xApp cannot transform the received A1 policy into appropriate E2 / A1-EI operation(s) requirements due to not support the corresponding A1 policy type, xApp replies A1 POLICY UPDATE RESULT message with A1 Policy Update Result IE set to failure to Near-RT RIC Platform, possible with Cause IE set to Not supported A1 policy type.

If xApp cannot transform the received A1 policy into appropriate E2 / A1-EI operation(s) requirements due to violation of the requirements as stated in 5.2.1.2.2, 5.2.2.2.2, 5.2.3.2.2, 5.2.4.2.2, 5.2.5.2.2, 5.2.6.2.2, 5.2.7.2.2 and 5.2.8.2.2 of [7], xApp replies A1 POLICY UPDATE RESULT message with A1 Policy Update Result IE set to failure to Near-RT RIC Platform, possible with Cause IE set to Not allowed statements, restrictions and extensions.

If Near-RT RIC Platform cannot accommodate E2 / A1-EI operation(s) requirements, xApp replies A1 POLICY UPDATE RESULT message with A1 Policy Update Result IE set to failure to Near-RT RIC Platform, possible with Cause IE set to Near-RT RIC Platform cannot accommodate E2 / A1-EI operations requirements.

#### 5.2.2.4 Abnormal conditions

If A1 policy indicated by A1 Policy Type ID IE, A1 Policy ID IE contained in A1 POLICY UPDATE REQUEST message is not enabled by xApp, xApp replies A1 POLICY UPDATE RESULT message with A1 Policy Update Result IE set to failure to Near-RT RIC Platform, possible with Cause IE set to Not enabled A1 policy at xApp.

### 5.2.3 A1 Policy Delete procedure

#### 5.2.3.1 General

The purpose of the A1 Policy Delete procedure is to terminate the execution of the transferred A1 policy.

#### 5.2.3.2 Successful operation

Figure 5.2.3.2-1 : A1 Policy Delete procedure, successful operation

The Near-RT RIC Platform initiates the procedure by sending A1 POLICY DELETE REQUEST message to xApp.

The A1 POLICY DELETE REQUEST message shall contain the information required by the xApp to delete one A1 policy including A1 Policy Type ID IE, A1 Policy ID IE.

Upon reception of the A1 POLICY DELETE REQUEST message, the xApp shall locate the E2 / A1-EI operation(s) associated with the A1 policy indicated by A1 Policy Type ID IE, A1 Policy ID IE contained in A1 POLICY DELETE REQUEST message, and shall trigger Near-RT RIC Platform to terminate the accommodation of located E2 / A1-EI operation(s).

No matter Near-RT RIC Platform to terminate the accommodation of located E2 / A1-EI operation(s) succeeds or not, xApp replies A1 POLICY DELETE RESULT message with A1 Policy Delete Result IE set to success to Near-RT RIC Platform. And xApp should delete the stored A1 policy profile associated.

#### 5.2.3.3 Unsuccessful operation

Figure 5.2.3.3-1 : A1 Policy Delete procedure, unsuccessful operation

If xApp cannot locate the E2 / A1-EI operation(s) associated with the A1 policy indicated by A1 Policy Type ID IE, A1 Policy ID IE contained in A1 POLICY DELETE REQUEST message, xApp replies A1 POLICY DELETE RESULT message with A1 Policy Delete Result IE set to failure to Near-RT RIC Platform, possible with Cause IE set to Not enabled A1 policy at xApp.

#### 5.2.3.4 Abnormal conditions

Not applicable.

## 5.3 Elements for A1-related API Communication

### 5.3.1 General

### 5.3.2 Message Functional Definition and Content

#### 5.3.2.1 A1 POLICY SETUP REQUEST

This message is sent by the RIC Platform and is used to request the destinated xApp to enable the execution of the nested A1 policy.

Direction: RIC Platform → xApp

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 5.3.3.1 | YES | reject |  |
| A1 Policy Type ID | M |  | 5.3.3.2 | YES | reject |  |
| A1 Policy ID | M |  | 5.3.3.3 | YES | reject |  |
| A1 Policy Object | M |  | OCTET SRTING | Defined in [7]. | YES | reject |

#### 5.3.2.2 A1 POLICY SETUP RESULT

This message is sent by the xApp as response to the request to enable the execution of the nested A1 policy.

Direction: xApp → RIC Platform

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 5.3.3.1 | YES | reject |  |
| A1 Policy Type ID | M |  | 5.3.3.2 | YES | reject |  |
| A1 Policy ID | M |  | 5.3.3.3 | YES | reject |  |
| A1 Policy Setup Result | M |  | 5.3.3.4 | YES | reject |  |
| Cause | O |  | 5.3.3.5 | YES | ignore |  |
| A1 Policy Object | C |  | OCTET SRTING | Defined in [7]. This IE shall present if the A1 Policy Setup Result IE is set to success. When present, this IE is copied from the corresponding Request message. | YES | ignore |

#### 5.3.2.3 A1 POLICY UPDATE REQUEST

This message is sent by the RIC Platform and is used to request the destinated xApp to update the execution of the nested A1 policy.

Direction: RIC Platform → xApp

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 5.3.3.1 | YES | reject |  |
| A1 Policy Type ID | M |  | 5.3.3.2 | YES | reject |  |
| A1 Policy ID | M |  | 5.3.3.3 | YES | reject |  |
| A1 Policy Object | M |  | OCTET SRTING | Defined in [7]. | YES | reject |

#### 5.3.2.4 A1 POLICY UPDATE RESULT

This message is sent by xApp as response to the request to update the execution of the nested A1 policy.

Direction: xApp → RIC Platform

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 5.3.3.1 | YES | reject |  |
| A1 Policy Type ID | M |  | 5.3.3.2 | YES | reject |  |
| A1 Policy ID | M |  | 5.3.3.3 | YES | reject |  |
| A1 Policy Update Result | M |  | 5.3.3.4 | YES | reject |  |
| Cause | O |  | 5.3.3.5 | YES | ignore |  |
| A1 Policy Object | C |  | OCTET SRTING | Defined in [7]. This IE shall present if the A1 Policy Update Result IE is set to success. When present, this IE is copied from the corresponding Request message. | YES | ignore |

#### 5.3.2.5 A1 POLICY DELETE REQUEST

This message is sent by the RIC Platform and is used to request the destinated xApp to terminate the execution of the nested A1 policy.

Direction: RIC Platform → xApp

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 5.3.3.1 | YES | reject |  |
| A1 Policy Type ID | M |  | 5.3.3.2 | YES | reject |  |
| A1 Policy ID | M |  | 5.3.3.3 | YES | reject |  |

#### 5.3.2.6 A1 POLICY DELETE RESULT

This message is sent by xApp as response to the request to terminate the execution of the nested A1 policy.

Direction: xApp → RIC Platform

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 5.3.3.1 | YES | reject |  |
| A1 Policy Type ID | M |  | 5.3.3.2 | YES | reject |  |
| A1 Policy ID | M |  | 5.3.3.3 | YES | reject |  |
| A1 Policy Delete Result | M |  | 5.3.3.4 | YES | reject |  |
| Cause | O |  | 5.3.3.5 | YES | ignore |  |

#### 5.3.2.7 A1 POLICY QUERY REQUEST

#### 5.3.2.8 A1 POLICY QUERY RESULT

#### 5.3.2.9 A1 POLICY STATUS UPDATE

#### 5.3.2.10 A1 POLICY STATUS UPDATE ACK

#### 5.3.2.11 A1 POLICY STATUS UPDATE ERROR

#### 5.3.2.12 A1-EI SUBSCRIPTION SETUP REQUEST

#### 5.3.2.13 A1-EI SUBSCRIPTION SETUP RESULT

#### 5.3.2.14 A1-EI SUBSCRIPTION UPDATE REQUEST

#### 5.3.2.15 A1-EI SUBSCRIPTION UPDATE RESULT

#### 5.3.2.16 A1-EI SUBSCRIPTION DELETE REQUEST

#### 5.3.2.17 A1-EI SUBSCRIPTION DELETE RESULT

#### 5.3.2.18 A1-EI DELIVERY

#### 5.3.2.19 A1-EI QUERY REQUEST

#### 5.3.2.20 A1-EI QUERY RESULT

### 5.3.3 Information Element Definitions

#### 5.3.3.1 Message Type

The Message Type IE identifies the message being sent. It is mandatory for all messages.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE Type and Reference | Semantics Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type |  |  |  |  |
| >Procedure Type | M |  | CHOICE (A1 policy setup, A1 policy update, A1 policy delete, …) |  |
| >Type of Message | M |  | CHOICE (Request, Result, …) | Refer to Table 5.1.2-3 for applicable choices for each procedure type |

#### 5.3.3.2 A1 Policy Type ID

Defined in 10.1.5.

#### 5.3.3.3 A1 Policy ID

The A1 Policy ID IE identifies one A1 policy under one A1 policy type.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE Type and Reference | Semantics Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| A1 Policy ID | M |  | STRING |  |

#### 5.3.3.4 Result

The Result IE indicates the procedure succeeds or not.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE Type and Reference | Semantics Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Result | M |  | ENUMERATED (success, failure, …) |  |

#### 5.3.3.5 Cause

The Cause IE indicates the reason for a particular event in A1-related API.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE Type and Reference | Semantics Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| CHOICE Cause Group | M |  |  |  |
| >A1-related API Layer |  |  |  |  |
| >>A1-related API Layer Cause | M |  | ENUMERATED (Unspecified A1-related API layer reason,  Not supported A1 policy type,  Not allowed statements, restrictions and extensions,  Near-RT RIC Platform cannot accommodate E2 / A1-EI operations requirements,  A1 policy already enabled at xApp,  Not enabled A1 policy at xApp, …) |  |
| >Transport Layer |  |  |  |  |
| >>Transport Layer Cause | M |  | ENUMERATED (Unspecified transport layer reason, Transport Resource Unavailable, …) |  |
| >Protocol |  |  |  |  |
| >>Protocol Cause | M |  | ENUMERATED (Unspecified protocol reason,  Transfer Syntax Error,  Abstract Syntax Error (Reject),  Abstract Syntax Error (Ignore and Notify),  Message not Compatible with Receiver State,  Semantic Error, Abstract Syntax Error (Falsely Constructed Message),  …) |  |
| >Misc |  |  |  |  |
| >>Miscellaneous Cause | M |  | ENUMERATED (Unspecified miscellaneous reason,   Control Processing Overload Hardware failure,  O&M intervention, …) |  |

The meaning of the different cause values is described in the following table. In general, “not supported” cause values indicate that the related capability is missing. On the other hand, “not available” cause values indicate that the related capability is present, but insufficient resources were available to perform the requested action.

| A1-related API Layer cause | Meaning |
| --- | --- |
| Unspecified A1-related API layer reason | Sent for A1-related API layer cause when none of the specified cause values applies. |
| Not supported A1 policy type | The A1 policy type is not supported. |
| Not allowed statements, restrictions and extensions | The A1 policy object is illegal due to violation of statements, restrictions and extensions required for corresponding A1 policy type. |
| Near-RT RIC Platform cannot accommodate E2 / A1-EI operations requirements | The RIC platform failed to setup xApp’s requested E2 / A1-EI operation(s). |
| A1 policy already enabled at xApp | The A1 policy indicated by A1 Policy Type ID and A1 Policy ID is enforced already. |
| Not enabled A1 policy at xApp | The A1 policy indicated by A1 Policy Type ID and A1 Policy ID is not enforced. |

| Transport Layer cause | Meaning |
| --- | --- |
| Unspecified transport layer reason | Sent for transport layer cause when none of the specified cause values applies. |
| Transport Resource Unavailable | The required transport resources are not available. |

| Protocol cause | Meaning |
| --- | --- |
| Unspecified protocol reason | Sent for protocol cause when none of the specified cause values applies. |
| Transfer Syntax Error | The received message included a transfer syntax error. |
| Abstract Syntax Error (Reject) | The received message included an abstract syntax error and the concerning criticality indicated “reject”. |
| Abstract Syntax Error (Ignore And Notify) | The received message included an abstract syntax error and the concerning criticality indicated “ignore and notify”. |
| Message Not Compatible With Receiver State | The received message was not compatible with the receiver state. |
| Semantic Error | The received message included a semantic error. |
| Abstract Syntax Error (Falsely Constructed Message) | The received message contained IEs or IE groups in wrong order or with too many occurrences. |

| Miscellaneous cause | Meaning |
| --- | --- |
| Unspecified miscellaneous reason | Sent for miscellaneous cause when none of the specified cause values applies. |
| Control Processing Overload | Control processing overload |
| Hardware Failure | Action related to hardware failure |
| O&M Intervention | The action is due to O&M intervention. |

### 5.3.4 Message and Information Element Abstract Syntax

#### 5.3.4.1 Solution 1: gRPC with Protocol Buffers

##### 5.3.4.1.1   Usage of gRPC with Protocol Buffers

This solution uses Protocol Buffers as message encoding, and also as the Interface Definition Language (IDL) for gRPC [5].

Table 5.3.4.1.1-1 lists the mapping of A1-related APIs and corresponding gRPC services.

Table 5.3.4.1.1-1: Mapping of A1-related APIs and gRPC services

| API Name | gRPC service(s) |
| --- | --- |
| A1_Policy_API |  |

A procedure of an A1-related API is mapped to a gRPC method.

Table 5.3.4.1.1-2 lists the A1-related APIs abstract syntax included in this document.

| API Name / Contents | Clause | Version | File Name |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| A1_Policy_API | 5.3.4.1.2.1 | 1.0.0 | a1_policy_api_ver_1_0_0.proto |
| A1-related API common information elements | 5.3.4.1.3 | 1.0.0 | a1_related_apis_common_ies_ver_1_0_0.proto |
| Near-RT RIC API common information elements | 10.2.1 | 2.0.0 | near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies_ver_2_0_0.proto |

##### 5.3.4.1.2   API Definitions

syntax = "proto3";

package ricapi.a1_policy_api.v1;

import "near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies_ver_2_0_0.proto";

import "a1_related_apis_common_ies_ver_1_0_0.proto";

// gRPC service and rpc definition

service A1_Policy_API {

rpc A1PolicySetupProc(A1PolicySetupInitMsg) returns (A1PolicySetupOutMsg) {};

rpc A1PolicyUpdateProc(A1PolicyUpdateInitMsg) returns (A1PolicyUpdateOutMsg) {};

rpc A1PolicyDeleteProc(A1PolicyDeleteInitMsg) returns (A1PolicyDeleteOutMsg) {};

}

message A1PolicySetupInitMsg {

optional A1PolicySetupRequest a1_policy_setup_request = 1;

}

message A1PolicySetupOutMsg {

oneof type_of_message {

A1PolicySetupResult a1_policy_setup_result = 1;

}

}

message A1PolicyUpdateInitMsg {

optional A1PolicyUpdateRequest a1_policy_update_request = 1;

}

message A1PolicyUpdateOutMsg {

oneof type_of_message {

A1PolicyUpdateResult a1_policy_update_result = 1;

}

}

message A1PolicyDeleteInitMsg {

optional A1PolicyDeleteRequest a1_policy_delete_request = 1;

}

message A1PolicyDeleteOutMsg {

oneof type_of_message {

A1PolicyDeleteResult a1_policy_delete_result = 1;

}

}

// ---------------- messages of a1_policy_API ----------------

// -------- messages of A1 Policy Setup procedure --------

message A1PolicySetupRequest {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.A1PolicyTypeId a1_policy_type_id = 1;

optional a1_related_apis_common_ies.v1.A1PolicyId a1_policy_id = 2;

optional a1_related_apis_common_ies.v1.A1PolicyObject a1_policy_object = 3;

}

message A1PolicySetupResult {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.A1PolicyTypeId a1_policy_type_id = 1;

optional a1_related_apis_common_ies.v1.A1PolicyId a1_policy_id = 2;

optional a1_related_apis_common_ies.v1.Result a1_policy_setup_result = 3;

optional a1_related_apis_common_ies.v1.Cause cause = 4;

optional a1_related_apis_common_ies.v1.A1PolicyObject a1_policy_object = 5;

}

// -------- messages of A1 Policy Update procedure --------

message A1PolicyUpdateRequest {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.A1PolicyTypeId a1_policy_type_id = 1;

optional a1_related_apis_common_ies.v1.A1PolicyId a1_policy_id = 2;

optional a1_related_apis_common_ies.v1.A1PolicyObject a1_policy_object = 3;

}

message A1PolicyUpdateResult {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.A1PolicyTypeId a1_policy_type_id = 1;

optional a1_related_apis_common_ies.v1.A1PolicyId a1_policy_id = 2;

optional a1_related_apis_common_ies.v1.Result a1_policy_update_result = 3;

optional a1_related_apis_common_ies.v1.Cause cause = 4;

optional a1_related_apis_common_ies.v1.A1PolicyObject a1_policy_object = 5;

}

// -------- messages of A1 Policy Delete procedure --------

message A1PolicyDeleteRequest {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.A1PolicyTypeId a1_policy_type_id = 1;

optional a1_related_apis_common_ies.v1.A1PolicyId a1_policy_id = 2;

}

message A1PolicyDeleteResult {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.A1PolicyTypeId a1_policy_type_id = 1;

optional a1_related_apis_common_ies.v1.A1PolicyId a1_policy_id = 2;

optional a1_related_apis_common_ies.v1.Result a1_policy_delete_result = 3;

optional a1_related_apis_common_ies.v1.Cause cause = 4;

}

##### 5.3.4.1.3   Information Element Definitions

syntax = "proto3";

package ricapi.a1_related_apis_common_ies.v1;

import "near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies_ver_2_0_0.proto";

// ----------------------------- Information Elements -----------------------------

// --------------A--------------

message A1PolicyObject {

optional string value = 1;

}

message A1PolicyId {

optional string value = 1;

}

// --------------C--------------

message Cause {

oneof cause_group {

A1RelatedApiLayerCause a1_related_api_layer_cause = 1;

TransportLayerCause transport_layer_cause = 2;

ProtocolLayerCause protocol_layer_cause = 3;

MiscCause misc_cause = 4;

}

enum A1RelatedApiLayerCause {

A1_RELATED_API_LAYER_UNSPECIFIED = 0;

NOT_SUPPORTED_A1_POLICY_TYPE = 1;

NOT_ALLOWED_STATEMENTS_RESTRICTIONS_AND_EXTENSIONS = 2;

NEAR_RT_RIC_PLATFORM_CANNOT_ACCOMMODATE_E2_A1_EI_OPERATIONS_REQUIREMENTS = 3;

A1_POLICY_ALREADY_ENABLED_AT_XAPP = 4;

NOT_ENABLED_A1_POLICY_AT_XAPP = 5;

}

enum TransportLayerCause {

TRANSPORT_UNSPECIFIED = 0;

TRANSPORT_RESOURCE_UNAVAILABLE = 1;

}

enum ProtocolLayerCause {

PROTOCOL_UNSPECIFIED = 0;

TRANSFER_SYNTAX_ERROR = 1;

ABSTRACT_SYNTAX_ERROR_REJECT = 2;

ABSTRACT_SYNTAX_ERROR_IGNORE_AND_NOTIFY = 3;

MESSAGE_NOT_COMPATIBLE_WITH_RECEIVER_STATE = 4;

SEMANTIC_ERROR = 5;

ABSTRACT_SYNTAX_ERROR_FALSELY_CONSTRUCTED_MESSAGE = 6;

}

enum MiscCause {

MISC_UNSPECIFIED = 0;

CONTROL_PROCESSING_OVERLOAD = 1;

HARDWARE_FAILURE = 2;

OAM_INTERVENTION = 3;

}

}

// --------------R--------------

enum Result {

RESULT_SUCCESS = 0;

RESULT_FAILURE = 1;

}

### 5.3.5 Message Transfer Syntax

#### 5.3.5.1 Solution 1: gRPC with Protocol Buffers

The message transfer syntax for Solution 1 is serialized Protocol Buffers [4].

# 6 E2-related API

## 6.1 Overview

### 6.1.1 Protocol Stack

In this version of specification, the default and optional protocol stacks for the E2 related APIs are shown on Figure 6.1.1-1.

Note: the network layer for security protection is FFS.

|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| Default protocol stack : SCTP | Optional protocol stack : gRPC |

Figure 6.1.1-1: Protocol stacks for E2 related APIs

The E2 related APIs may use SCTP or gRPC with Protocol Buffers [4] as the application layer serialization protocol. The supported protocol by the platform APIs is presented to the the xApps during the xApp Discovery Procedure in clause 9.2.1.

### 6.1.2 List of E2 related APIs, procedures and messages

The E2 related API procedures introduced in clause 9.3 of [2] are categorized under the E2 related APIs. These APIs include:

These APIs are summarized in Table 6.1.2-1.

| API Name | Description |
| --- | --- |
| E2_Subscription_API | Near-RT RIC platform service for subscription of E2 REPORT, INSERT and POLICY services |
| E2_Indication_API | Near-RT RIC platform service for delivery of subscribed information associated with E2 REPORT and INSERT services |
| E2_Control_API | Near-RT RIC platform service for E2 CONTROL |
| E2_Guidance_API | Near-RT RIC platform service for E2 related guidance |

The table 6.1.2-2 lists the API procedures for each E2 related API.

| API Name | API procedure | Communication type |
| --- | --- | --- |
| E2_Subscription_API | E2 Subscription | Request/Response |
| E2_Subscription_API | E2 Subscription Delete | Request/Response |
| E2_Subscription_API | E2 Subscription Delete Query | Request/Response |
| E2_Subscription_API | E2 Subscription Delete Notification | Notify |
| E2_Indication_API | E2 Indication | Notify |
| E2_Control_API | E2 Control | Request/Response |
| E2_Guidance_API | E2 Guidance | Request/Response |
| E2_Guidance_API | E2 Guidance Modification | Notify |

The table 6.1.2-3 lists the messages for each E2 related API procedure.

| API Procedure | Initiated by | Initiating Message | Outcome Message |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| API Procedure | Initiated by | Initiating Message | Successful Outcome | Unsuccessful Outcome 1 | Unsuccessful Outcome 2 |
| E2 Subscription | xApp | E2 SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST | E2 SUBSCRIPTION SUCCESS | E2 SUBSCRIPTION FAILURE | E2 SUBSCRIPTION REJECT |
| E2 Subscription Delete | xApp | E2 SUBSCRIPTION DELETE REQUEST | E2 SUBSCRIPTION DELETE SUCCESS | E2 SUBSCRIPTION DELETE FAILURE | E2 SUBSCRIPTION DELETE REJECT |
| E2 Subscription Delete Query | Near-RT RIC platform | E2 SUBSCRIPTION DELETE REQUIRED | E2 SUBSCRIPTION DELETE ACCEPT | E2 SUBSCRIPTION DELETE DECLINE | - |
| E2 Subscription Delete Notification | Near-RT RIC platform | E2 SUBSCRIPTION DELETE NOTIFICATION | - |  |  |
| E2 Indication | Near-RT RIC platform | E2 INDICATION PUSH | - | E2 INDICATION FAILURE |  |
| E2 Control | xApp | E2 CONTROL REQUEST | E2 CONTROL SUCCESS | E2 CONTROL FAILURE | E2 CONTROL REJECT |
| E2 Guidance | xApp | E2 GUIDANCE REQUEST | E2 GUIDANCE SUCCESS | - |  |
| E2 Guidance Modification | Near-RT RIC platform | E2 GUIDANCE MODIFICATION | - |  |  |

## 6.2 E2-related API Procedures

### 6.2.1 E2_Subscription_API procedures

#### 6.2.1.1 E2 Subscription Procedure

##### 6.2.1.1.1 General

This procedure is used by an xApp to request an E2 subscription to Near-RT RIC platform.

##### 6.2.1.1.2 Successful Operation

Figure 6.2.1.1.2-1: E2 Subscription procedure, successful operation

The xApp initiates the procedure by sending an E2 SUBSCRIPTION (Request) message to the Near-RT-RIC platform. The message contains a unique Procedure Transaction ID IE assigned by the initiating xApp, the Global E2 Node ID IE, the RAN Function ID IE, and the E2 Subscription Details IE including one or more requested E2 actions and optionally the E2 Subscription Timer IE. The message may include the E2 Indication Destination IE which specifies the xApp's endpoint to receive E2 indications (see clause 6.2.2.1), and the E2 Subscription Delete Notification Destination IE which specifies the xApp's endpoint to receive query/notification from the Near-RT RIC platform for E2 subscription deletion (see clause 6.2.1.3/6.2.1.4).

Note: When execution order of multiple actions is not concerned, it is recommended that an E2 Subscription procedure contains a single action, to allow efficient reuse of E2 subscriptions.

At reception of the E2 SUBSCRIPTION (Request) message, the Near-RT-RIC platform shall:

- -	Search existing E2 subscription(s) for matched Global E2 Node ID IE, RAN Function ID IE and matched contents in E2 Subscription Details IE. If a matched E2 subscription exists, add the initiating xApp as a new subscriber of the E2 subscription.
- -	Initiate appropriate E2AP procedure(s) to establish RIC subscription with the target E2 Node, if existing E2 subscriptions are insufficient to fulfill the request.
The Near-RT-RIC platform may use the value in the E2 Subscription Timer IE, if present, as a one-time value of the E2AP timer TRICEVENTcreate in clause 9.5 of [3], which is valid only for this transaction.

If the subscription request is successfully fulfilled, the Near-RT RIC platform shall send an E2 SUBSCRIPTION (Success) message back to the xApp. Similar to [3], a successfully fulfilled request shall be sent if the E2 event trigger and at least one requested E2 action are admitted.

In the E2 SUBSCRIPTION (Success) message, Near-RT RIC platform shall include the associated Procedure Transaction ID IE, Global E2 Node ID IE, RAN Function ID IE and an E2 Request ID IE assigned by the Near-RT RIC platform. The message shall also indicate the admitted E2 action(s) in the Actions Admitted List IE, each with the associated E2 Action ID IE assigned by the Near-RT RIC platform.  The same E2 Request ID IE and E2 Action ID IE shall be present in any subsequent E2 INDICATION message(s). The message shall indicate, if exist, the E2 action(s) not admitted in the Actions Not Admitted List IE with appropriate cause(s).

##### 6.2.1.1.3 Unsuccessful Operation

Figure 6.2.1.1.3-1: E2 Subscription procedure, unsuccessful operation (Reject)

- If the subscription request is rejected by the Near-RT RIC platform, an E2 SUBSCRIPTION (Reject) message shall be sent back to the xApp. The message shall include associated Procedure Transaction ID IE which is replicated from the corresponding request, the Global E2 Node ID IE, the RAN Function ID IE and appropriate Cause IE.
Figure 6.2.1.1.3-2: E2 Subscription procedure, unsuccessful operation (Failure)

- If the subscription request fails due to failure in E2AP procedure, the Near-RT RIC platform shall send an E2 SUBSCRIPTION (Failure) message back to the xApp. The message shall include the associated Procedure Transaction ID IE which is replicated from the corresponding request, Global E2 Node ID IE, RAN Function ID IE and appropriate cause.

##### 6.2.1.1.4 Abnormal Conditions

Not applicable.

#### 6.2.1.2 E2 Subscription Delete Procedure, xApp initiated

##### 6.2.1.2.1 General

This procedure is used by an xApp to unsubscribe from an E2 subscription on Near-RT RIC platform.

##### 6.2.1.2.2 Successful Operation

Figure 6.2.1.2.2-1: E2 Subscription Delete procedure (xApp initiated), successful operation

The xApp initiates the procedure by sending the E2 SUBSCRIPTION DELETE (Request) message to the Near-RT-RIC platform. The message contains the Global E2 Node ID IE and the E2 Request ID IE to indicate the target E2 subscription and optionally the E2 Subscription Delete Timer IE.

At reception of the E2 SUBSCRIPTION DELETE (Request) message, the Near-RT-RIC platform shall, if the delete request is accepted by the Near-RT-RIC platform:

- -	Check for other subscriber(s) of the target E2 subscription. If such subscriber(s) exists, the E2 subscription shall be maintained by the Near-RT RIC platform but no longer serve the initiating xApp; if not, the E2 subscription shall be deleted.
- -	Initiate appropriate E2AP procedure(s) with the target E2 Node, if necessary, to map the change in the target E2 subscription to its corresponding RIC subscription.
The Near-RT-RIC platform may use the value in the E2 Subscription Delete Timer IE, if present, as a one-time value of the E2AP timer TRICEVENTdelete in clause 9.5 of [3], which is valid only for this transaction.

Upon success of the above processing for the target E2 subscription, the Near-RT RIC platform shall stop delivering its associated E2 INDICATION message(s) to the initiating xApp and respond the xApp with an E2 SUBSCRIPTION DELETE(Success) message. The E2 SUBSCRIPTION DELETE (Success) message shall include the same Global E2 Node ID IE and E2 Request ID IE from the request message.

##### 6.2.1.2.3 Unsuccessful Operation

Figure 6.2.1.2.3-1: E2 Subscription Delete procedure (xApp initiated), unsuccessful operation (Reject)

If the Near-RT RIC platform rejects the request message, an E2 SUBSCRIPTION (Reject) message shall be sent back to the initiating xApp. The message shall include associated Procedure Transaction ID IE which is replicated from the corresponding request, the Global E2 Node ID IE, the RAN Function ID IE and appropriate Cause IE.

Figure 6.2.1.2.3-2: E2 Subscription Delete procedure (xApp initiated), unsuccessful operation (Failure)

If the associated E2AP procedure(s) fails for the E2 subscription, the Near-RT RIC platform shall send an E2 SUBSCRIPTION DELETE (Failure) message back to the initiating xApp.   The message shall include associated Procedure Transaction ID IE which is replicated from the corresponding request, the Global E2 Node ID IE, the RAN Function ID IE and appropriate Cause IE.

##### 6.2.1.2.4 Abnormal Conditions

Not applicable.

#### 6.2.1.3 E2 Subscription Delete Query procedure

##### 6.2.1.3.1 General

This procedure is used by Near-RT RIC platform to consult the xApp about deleting an existing E2 subscription.

##### 6.2.1.3.2 Successful Operations

Figure 6.2.1.3.2-1: E2 Subscription Delete Query procedure, successful operation

The Near-RT RIC platform may consult each concerned xApp before deciding to delete an E2 subscription. The Near-RT RIC platform initiates the procedure by sending an E2 SUBSCRIPTION DELETE Query (Required) message to the xApp. The message contains the Global E2 Node ID IE and the E2 Request ID IE to identify the target E2 subscription.

At reception of the E2 SUBSCRIPTION DELETE Query (Required) message, the xApp shall respond by an E2 SUBSCRIPTION DELETE Query (Accept) message, if the xApp agrees to delete the E2 subscription based on its own evaluation. The reply message shall contain the same Global E2 Node ID IE, E2 Request ID IE, and RAN Function ID IE as in the corresponding E2 SUBSCRIPTION DELETE (Required) message. The Near-RT RIC platform should consider the suggestions from all concerned xApps, but the decision for the E2 subscription is up to the Near-RT RIC platform.

##### 6.2.1.3.3 Unsuccessful Operation

If the xApp disagrees to delete the E2 subscription proposed in the E2 SUBSCRIPTION DELETE Query (Required) message, it shall reply an E2 SUBSCRIPTION DELETE Query (Decline) message to the Near-RT RIC platform.

Figure 6.2.1.3.3-2: E2 Subscription Delete Query procedure, unsuccessful operation

##### 6.2.1.3.4 Abnormal Conditions

Not applicable.

#### 6.2.1.4 E2 Subscription Delete Notification procedure

##### 6.2.1.4.1 General

This procedure is used by Near-RT RIC platform to notify the xApp that an existing E2 subscription has been deleted as required by the E2 Node.

##### 6.2.1.4.2 Successful Operations

Figure 6.2.1.4.2-1: E2 Subscription Delete Notification procedure, successful operation

After successfully deleting the E2 subscription required by the E2 Node (including removal of the RIC subscription over E2 interface and removal of corresponding subscription record in Near-RT RIC platform), the Near-RT RIC platform shall send an E2 SUBSCRIPTION DELETE NOTIFICATION (Deleted) message to the xApp to notify the deletion.

The message shall contain the Global E2 Node ID IE and the E2 Request ID IE to identify the target E2 subscription, and the Cause IE with appropriate value.

At reception of the message, the xApp shall remove its local subscription record of the E2 subscription.

##### 6.2.1.4.3 Unsuccessful Operations

Not applicable.

##### 6.2.1.4.4 Abnormal Conditions

Not applicable.

### 6.2.2 E2_Indication_API procedures

#### 6.2.2.1 E2 Indication Procedure

##### 6.2.2.1.1 General

This procedure is used by the Near-RT RIC platform to deliver to xApp the subscribed information associated with an E2 subscription. The procedure is triggered by the successful operation of an E2AP RIC indication procedure.

##### 6.2.2.1.2 Successful Operation

Figure 6.2.2.1.2-1: E2 Indication procedure, successful operation

The Near-RT-RIC platform initiates the procedure by sending the E2 INDICATION (Push) message containing the Global E2 Node ID IE, the E2 Request ID IE, the E2 Action ID IE to the xApp. The message shall also contain the E2 Indication Type IE, the E2 Indication Header IE and the E2 Indication Message IE to carry the information from corresponding fields, i.e. the RIC Indication Type IE, the RIC Indication Header IE, and the RIC Indication Message IE, respectively, in the E2AP RIC INDICATION message. The E2 Indication SN IE and the E2 Call Process ID IE shall also be included, if corresponding fields, i.e. the RIC Indication SN IE, and the RIC Call Process ID IE, respectively, are present in the E2AP RIC INDICATION message.

At reception of the E2 INDICATION (Push) message an xApp shall:

- - 	Use the Global E2 Node ID IE, the E2 Request ID IE and the E2 Action ID IE to associate the received message to the right E2 subscription. The E2 Request ID IE and the E2 Action ID IE have been assigned in the E2 SUBSCRIPTION (Success) message for each E2 subscription.
- - 	Process the information carried in the E2 Indication SN IE, the E2 Indication Type IE, the E2 Indication Header IE, the E2 Indication Message IE and the E2 Call Process ID IE.

##### 6.2.2.1.3 Unsuccessful Operation

Figure 6.2.2.1.3-1: E2 Indication procedure, unsuccessful operation (Failure)

If the received E2 INDICATION (Push) message cannot be handled successfully as specified in 6.2.2.1.2, the xApp may, according to operator’s OM configuration, send E2 INDICATION (Failure) message back to the Near-RT RIC platform. The message shall include the associated Global E2 Node ID IE, E2 Request ID IE, RAN Function ID IE, E2 Action ID IE, and appropriate Cause IE. The E2 Indication SN IE shall also be included if the same name IE is present in the corresponding E2 INDICATION (Push) message.

##### 6.2.2.1.4 Abnormal Conditions

Not applicable.

### 6.2.3 E2_Control_API procedures

#### 6.2.3.1 E2 Control procedure

##### 6.2.3.1.1 General

This procedure is used by an xApp to request for E2 control service to Near-RT RIC platform.

##### 6.2.3.1.2 Successful Operation

Figure 6.2.3.1.2-1: E2 Contol procedure, successful operation

The xApp initiates the procedure by sending the E2 CONTROL (Request) message to the Near-RT-RIC platform, containing the Global E2 Node ID IE, the RAN Function ID IE, optionally the E2 Call Process ID IE, E2 Control Header IE, E2 Control Message IE, optionally the E2 Control Ack Request IE and optionally the E2 Control Timer IE.

At reception of the E2 CONTROL (Request) message, the Near-RT-RIC platform shall:

- -	Evaluate whether to reject the request due to potential control conflict, when such evaluation is required by conflict mitigation related configuration.
- -	Initiate appropriate E2AP RIC Control procedure with the target E2 Node, if the request is not rejected by the Near-RT-RIC platform.
The Near-RT-RIC platform may use the value in the E2 Control Timer IE, if present, as a one-time value of the E2AP timer TRICcontrol in Clause 9.5 of [3], which is valid only for this transaction.

If the control request is successfully performed, and if the optional E2 Control Ack Request IE in the request is absent or set to “Ack”, an E2 CONTROL (Success) message shall be responded to the initiating xApp. The E2 CONTROL (Success) message shall include the Global E2 Node ID IE, the RAN Function ID IE, optionally the E2 Call Process ID IE, and optionally the E2 Control Outcome IE. The xApp may use the information contained in the optional E2 Control Outcome IE to determine subsequent actions.

If the control request is successfully performed, and if the optional E2 Control Ack Request IE in the request is set to “NoAck”, an E2 CONTROL (Success) message is not needed and xApp may consider it success.

##### 6.2.3.1.3 Unsuccessful Operations

Figure 6.2.3.1.3-1: E2 Control procedure, unsuccessful operation (Reject)

If the request is rejected by the Near-RT RIC platform, an E2 CONTROL (Reject) message shall be responded to the initiating xApp with appropriate Cause IE.  The xApp may use the information contained in the Cause IE to determine subsequent actions.

Figure 6.2.3.1.3-2: E2 Control procedure, unsuccessful operation (Failure)

If the request is accepted by the Near-RT RIC platform but failed in the E2AP RIC Control procedure, the Near-RT RIC platform shall send an E2 CONTROL (Failure) message back to the xApp with appropriate Cause IE. The xApp may use the information contained in the Cause IE and the optional E2 Control Outcome IE to determine subsequent actions.

##### 6.2.3.1.4 Abnormal Conditions

Not applicable.

## 6.3 Elements for E2-related API Communication

### 6.3.1 General

### 6.3.2 Message Functional Definition and Content

#### 6.3.2.1 E2 SUBSCRIPTION (Request)

This message is sent by an xApp to the Near-RT RIC platform for an E2 Subscription.

Direction: xApp -> Near-RT RIC platform

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 6.3.3.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 | Value assigned by the initiating xApp. | YES | Reject |
| Global E2 Node ID | M |  | 10.1.6 | YES | Reject |  |
| RAN Function ID | M |  | 10.1.7 | YES | Reject |  |
| E2 Subscription Details |  | YES | Reject |  |  |  |
| >E2 Event Trigger Definition | M |  | RIC Event Trigger Definition, Clause 9.2.9 of [3] | - |  |  |
| >Sequence of Actions |  | 1.. <maxnoofE2Actions> | EACH | Ignore |  |  |
| >>Requested E2 Action ID | M |  | RIC Action ID, Clause 9.2.10 of [3] | Assigned by initiating xApp to uniquely identify an action within the sequence of actions. It should not be assumed that the E2 Action ID in the subsequent E2 SUBSCRIPTION (Success) message or RIC Action ID in the corresponding E2AP message has the same value. | - |  |
| >>E2 Action Type | M |  | RIC Action Type, Clause 9.2.11 of [3] | - |  |  |
| >>E2 Action Definition | O |  | RIC Action Definition, Clause 9.2.12 of [3] | - |  |  |
| >>E2 Subsequent Action | O |  | RIC Subscription Action, Clause 9.2.13 of [3] | - |  |  |
| E2 Subscription Timer | O |  | 6.3.3.7 |  |  |  |
| E2 Indication Destination | O |  | 10.1.9 | When present, this IE specifies the destination address for the Near-RT RIC platform to send E2 INDICATION (Push) messages. | YES | Reject |
| E2 Subscription Delete Notification Destination | O |  | 10.1.9 | When present, this IE specifies the destination address for the Near-RT RIC platform to send E2 SUBSCRIPTION DELETE QUERY (Required) and E2 SUBSCRIPTION DELETE NOTIFICATION (Deleted) messages. | YES | Reject |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxnoofE2Actions | Maximum no. of E2 Actions requested in the E2 subscription. Value is 16. |

#### 6.3.2.2 E2 SUBSCRIPTION (Success)

This message is sent by the Near-RT RIC platform after the xApp’s subscription request is successfully accepted with respect to the target E2 Node.

Direction: Near-RT RIC platform -> xApp

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 6.3.3.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 | Value replicated from corresponding request. | YES | Reject |
| Global E2 Node ID | M |  | 10.1.6 | Value replicated from corresponding request. | YES | Reject |
| E2 Request ID | M |  | 6.3.3.2 | Value assigned by the Near-RT RIC platform to indicate the associated E2 subscription in Near-RT RIC. | YES | Reject |
| RAN Function ID | M |  | 10.1.7 | Value replicated from corresponding request. | YES | Reject |
| Actions Admitted List |  | 1.. <maxnoofE2Actions> | YES | Reject |  |  |
| >Requested E2 Action ID | M |  | RIC Action ID, Clause 9.2.10 of [3] | Value replicated from corresponding request message | - |  |
| >E2 Action ID | M |  | RIC Action ID, Clause 9.2.10 of [3] | Value assigned by Near-RT RIC platform to indicate in the associated E2 subscription the action ID that corresponds to the Requested E2 Action ID IE in the E2 SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST message. | - |  |
| Actions Not Admitted List |  | 0.. <maxnoofE2Actions> | YES | Reject |  |  |
| >Requested E2 Action ID | M |  | RIC Action ID, Clause 9.2.10 of [3] | Value replicated from corresponding request message | - |  |
| >Cause | M |  | 6.3.3.4 | - |  |  |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxnoofE2Actions | Maximum no. of E2 Actions requested in the E2 subscription. Value is 16. |

#### 6.3.2.3 E2 SUBSCRIPTION (Reject)

This message is sent by the Near-RT RIC platform after the xApp’s subscription request is rejected by Near-RT RIC platform with respect to the target E2 Node.

Direction: Near-RT RIC platform -> xApp

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 6.3.3.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 | Value replicated from corresponding request. | YES | Reject |
| Global E2 Node ID | M |  | 10.1.6 | Value replicated from corresponding request. | YES | Reject |
| RAN Function ID | M |  | 10.1.7 | Value replicated from corresponding request. | YES | Reject |
| Cause | M |  | 6.3.3.4 | YES | Reject |  |
| Criticality Diagnostics | O |  | 6.3.3.5 | YES | Ignore |  |

#### 6.3.2.4 E2 SUBSCRIPTION (Failure)

This message is sent by the Near-RT RIC platform after the xApp’s subscription request is accepted by Near-RT RIC platform but failed by E2 Node, with respect to the target E2 Node.

Direction: Near-RT RIC platform -> xApp

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 6.3.3.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 | Value replicated from corresponding request. | YES | Reject |
| Global E2 Node ID | M |  | 10.1.6 | Value replicated from corresponding request. | YES | Reject |
| RAN Function ID | M |  | 10.1.7 | Value replicated from corresponding request. | YES | Reject |
| Cause | M |  | 6.3.3.4 | YES | Reject |  |
| Criticality Diagnostics | O |  | 6.3.3.5 | YES | Ignore |  |

#### 6.3.2.5 E2 SUBSCRIPTION DELETE (Request)

This message is sent by the xApp to the Near-RT RIC platform to request deletion of one target E2 subscription.

Direction: xApp -> Near-RT RIC platform

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 6.3.3.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Global E2 Node ID | M |  | 10.1.6 | YES | Reject |  |
| E2 Request ID | M |  | 6.3.3.2 | YES | Reject |  |
| RAN Function ID | M |  | 10.1.7 | YES | Reject |  |
| E2 Subscription Delete  Timer | O |  | 6.3.3.8 |  |  |  |

#### 6.3.2.6 E2 SUBSCRIPTION DELETE (Success)

This message is sent by the Near-RT RIC platform to the xApp to indicate success for the delete request of the target E2 subscription.

Direction: Near-RT RIC platform -> xApp

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 6.3.3.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 | Value replicated from corresponding request. | YES | Reject |
| Global E2 Node ID | M |  | 10.1.6 | Value replicated from corresponding request. | YES | Reject |
| E2 Request ID | M |  | 6.3.3.2 | Value replicated from corresponding request. | YES | Reject |
| RAN Function ID | M |  | 10.1.7 | Value replicated from corresponding request. | YES | Reject |

#### 6.3.2.7 E2 SUBSCRIPTION DELETE (Reject)

This message is sent by the Near-RT RIC platform to the xApp when the Near-RT RIC platform rejects the delete request for the target E2 subscription.

Direction: Near-RT RIC platform -> xApp

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 6.3.3.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 | Value replicated from corresponding request. | YES | Reject |
| Global E2 Node ID | M |  | 10.1.6 | Value replicated from corresponding request. | YES | Reject |
| E2 Request ID | M |  | 6.3.3.2 | Value replicated from corresponding request. | YES | Reject |
| RAN Function ID | M |  | 10.1.7 | Value replicated from corresponding request. | YES | Reject |
| Cause | M |  | 6.3.3.4 | YES | Ignore |  |
| Criticality Diagnostics | O |  | 6.3.3.5 | YES | Ignore |  |

#### 6.3.2.8 E2 SUBSCRIPTION DELETE (Failure)

This message is sent by the Near-RT RIC platform to the xApp when the delete request for a target E2 subscription fails due to failure in the associated E2AP procedure(s).

Direction: Near-RT RIC platform -> xApp

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 6.3.3.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 | Value replicated from corresponding request. | YES | Reject |
| Global E2 Node ID | M |  | 10.1.6 | Value replicated from corresponding request. | YES | Reject |
| E2 Request ID | M |  | 6.3.3.2 | Value replicated from corresponding request. | YES | Reject |
| RAN Function ID | M |  | 10.1.7 | Value replicated from corresponding request. | YES | Reject |
| Cause | M |  | 6.3.3.4 | YES | Ignore |  |
| Criticality Diagnostics | O |  | 6.3.3.5 | YES | Ignore |  |

#### 6.3.2.9 E2 SUBSCRIPTION DELETE QUERY (Required)

This message is sent by the Near-RT RIC platform to the xApp to consult the deletion of a target E2 subscription.

Direction: Near-RT RIC platform -> xApp

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 6.3.3.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Global E2 Node ID | M |  | 10.1.6 | YES | Reject |  |
| E2 Request ID | M |  | 6.3.3.2 | YES | Reject |  |
| RAN Function ID | M |  | 10.1.7 | YES | Reject |  |
| Cause | M |  | 6.3.3.4 | YES | Ignore |  |

#### 6.3.2.10 E2 SUBSCRIPTION DELETE QUERY (Accept)

This message is sent by the xApp to the Near-RT RIC platform to agree to deletion of a target E2 subscription.

Direction: xApp -> Near-RT RIC platform

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 6.3.3.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Global E2 Node ID | M |  | 10.1.6 | YES | Reject |  |
| E2 Request ID | M |  | 6.3.3.2 | YES | Reject |  |
| RAN Function ID | M |  | 10.1.7 | YES | Reject |  |

#### 6.3.2.11 E2 SUBSCRIPTION DELETE QUERY (Decline)

This message is sent by the xApp to the Near-RT RIC platform to decline deletion of a target E2 subscription.

Direction: xApp -> Near-RT RIC platform

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 6.3.3.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Global E2 Node ID | M |  | 10.1.6 | YES | Reject |  |
| E2 Request ID | M |  | 6.3.3.2 | YES | Reject |  |
| RAN Function ID | M |  | 10.1.7 | YES | Reject |  |
| Cause | M |  | 6.3.3.4 | YES | Ignore |  |

#### 6.3.2.12 E2 SUBSCRIPTION DELETE NOTIFICATION (Deleted)

This message is sent by the Near-RT RIC platform to the xApp to notify the deletion of a target E2 subscription.

Direction: Near-RT RIC platform -> xApp

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 6.3.3.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Global E2 Node ID | M |  | 10.1.6 | YES | Reject |  |
| RAN Function ID | M |  | 10.1.7 | YES | Reject |  |
| E2 Request ID | M |  | 6.3.3.2 | YES | Reject |  |
| Cause | M |  | 6.3.3.4 | YES | Ignore |  |

#### 6.3.2.13 E2 INDICATION (Push)

This message is sent by the Near-RT RIC platform to the xApp for delivery of subscribed information associated with an E2 subscription.

Direction: Near-RT RIC platform -> xApp

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 6.3.3.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Global E2 Node ID | M |  | 10.1.6 | YES | Reject |  |
| E2 Request ID | M |  | 6.3.3.2 | YES | Reject |  |
| RAN Function ID | M |  | 10.1.7 | YES | Reject |  |
| E2 Action ID | M |  | RIC Action ID, Clause 9.2.10 of [3]. |  |  |  |
| E2 Indication SN | O |  | RIC Indication SN, Clause 9.2.14 of [3]. | YES | Reject |  |
| E2 Indication Type | M |  | RIC Indication Type, Clause 9.2.15 of [3]. | YES | Reject |  |
| E2 Indication Header | M |  | RIC Indication Header, Clause 9.2.17 of [3]. | YES | Reject |  |
| E2 Indication Message | M |  | RIC Indication Message, Clause 9.2.16 of [3]. | YES | Reject |  |
| E2 Call Process ID | O |  | RIC Call Process ID, Clause 9.2.18 of [3]. | YES | Reject |  |

#### 6.3.2.14 E2 INDICATION (Failure)

This message is sent by the xApp to the Near-RT RIC platform if an error is detected in E2 INDICATION (Push) message.

Direction: xApp -> Near-RT RIC platform

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 6.3.3.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Global E2 Node ID | M |  | 10.1.6 | YES | Reject |  |
| E2 Request ID | M |  | 6.3.3.2 | YES | Reject |  |
| RAN Function ID | M |  | 10.1.7 | YES | Reject |  |
| E2 Action ID | M |  | RIC Action ID, Clause 9.2.10 of [3]. |  |  |  |
| E2 Indication SN | O |  | RIC Indication SN, Clause 9.2.14 of [3]. | YES | Reject |  |
| Cause | M |  | 6.3.3.4 | YES | Reject |  |
| Criticality Diagnostics | O |  | 6.3.3.5 | YES | Ignore |  |

#### 6.3.2.15 E2 CONTROL (Request)

This message is sent by the xApp to the Near-RT RIC platform for an E2 control request.

Direction: xApp -> Near-RT RIC platform

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 6.3.3.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 | Value assigned by the initiating xApp. | YES | Reject |
| Global E2 Node ID | M |  | 10.1.6 | YES | Reject |  |
| RAN Function ID | M |  | 10.1.7 | YES | Reject |  |
| E2 Call Process ID | O |  | RIC Call Process ID, Clause 9.2.18 of [3]. | YES | Reject |  |
| E2 Control Header | M |  | RIC Control Header, Clause 9.2.20 of [3]. | YES | Reject |  |
| E2 Control Message | M |  | RIC Control Message, Clause 9.2.19 of [3]. | YES | Reject |  |
| E2 Control Ack Request | O |  | RIC Control Ack Request, Clause 9.2.21 of [3]. | YES | Reject |  |
| E2 Control Timer | O |  | 6.3.3.6 | YES | Ignore |  |

#### 6.3.2.16 E2 CONTROL (Success)

This message is sent by the Near-RT RIC platform to the xApp for a successfully performed E2 control request.

Direction: Near-RT RIC platform -> xApp

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 6.3.3.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 | Value replicated from corresponding request. | YES | Reject |
| Global E2 Node ID | M |  | 10.1.6 | YES | Reject |  |
| RAN Function ID | M |  | 10.1.7 | YES | Reject |  |
| E2 Call Process ID | O |  | RIC Call Process ID, Clause 9.2.18 of [3]. | YES | Reject |  |
| E2 Control Outcome | O |  | RIC Control Outcome, Clause 9.2.25 of [3]. | YES | Reject |  |

#### 6.3.2.17 E2 CONTROL (Reject)

This message is sent by the Near-RT RIC platform to the xApp if the corresponding E2 control request is rejected by the Near-RT RIC platform.

Direction: Near-RT RIC platform -> xApp

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 6.3.3.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 | Value replicated from corresponding request. | YES | Reject |
| Global E2 Node ID | M |  | 10.1.6 | YES | Reject |  |
| RAN Function ID | M |  | 10.1.7 | YES | Reject |  |
| Cause | M |  | 6.3.3.4 | YES | Ignore |  |
| Criticality Diagnostics | O |  | 6.3.3.5 | YES | Ignore |  |

#### 6.3.2.18 E2 CONTROL (Failure)

This message is sent by the Near-RT RIC platform to the xApp if the corresponding E2 control request is accepted by the Near-RT RIC platform but fails in the E2 Node.

Direction: Near-RT RIC platform -> xApp

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 6.3.3.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 | Value replicated from corresponding request. | YES | Reject |
| Global E2 Node ID | M |  | 10.1.6 | YES | Reject |  |
| RAN Function ID | M |  | 10.1.7 | YES | Reject |  |
| E2 Call Process ID | O |  | RIC Call Process ID, Clause 9.2.18 of [3]. | YES | Reject |  |
| E2 Control Outcome | O |  | RIC Control Outcome, Clause 9.2.25 of [3]. | YES | Reject |  |
| Cause | M |  | 6.3.3.4 | YES | Ignore |  |
| Criticality Diagnostics | O |  | 6.3.3.5 | YES | Ignore |  |

#### 6.3.2.19 E2 GUIDANCE (Request)

#### 6.3.2.20 E2 GUIDANCE (Response)

#### 6.3.2.21 E2 GUIDANCE (Modification)

### 6.3.3 Information Element Definitions

#### 6.3.3.1 Message Type

This IE uniquely identifies the message being sent. It is mandatory for all messages.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE Type and Reference | Semantics Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type |  |  |  |  |
| >Procedure Type | M |  | CHOICE (E2 Subscription, E2 Subscription Delete, E2 Subscription Delete Query, E2 Subscription Delete Notification, E2 Indication, E2 Control, …) |  |
| >Type of Message | M |  | CHOICE (Request, Success, Reject, Failure, …) | Refer to Table 6.1.2-3 for applicable choices for each procedure type |

#### 6.3.3.2 E2 Request ID

This IE is assigned by Near-RT RIC platform to uniquely identify an E2 subscription among all the E2 subscriptions associated with the same E2 Node.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| E2 Request ID | M |  | INTEGER (0 … 4294967295) |  |

#### 6.3.3.3 Void

#### 6.3.3.4 Cause

This IE is used to indicate the reason for a particular event for the E2-related APIs.

Note:	Not all causes from E2AP are applicable.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| CHOICE Cause Group | M |  |  |  |
| >E2-related API Cause |  |  |  |  |
| >>E2-related API Cause | M |  | 6.3.3.4a. |  |
| >E2AP Cause |  |  |  |  |
| >>E2AP Cause | M |  | Cause, Clause 9.2.1 of [3]. |  |

6.3.3.4a	E2-related API Cause

The purpose of the E2-related API Cause IE is to indicate the reason for a particular event for the E2-related APIs.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| CHOICE E2-related API Cause Group | M |  |  |  |
| >Application Layer |  |  |  |  |
| >>Application Layer Cause | M |  | ENUMERATED (Unspecified,  Global E2Node ID invalid, E2 Node Reset or Disconnected,  RAN Function ID invalid,  Action not supported,  Excessive actions, Duplicate action,  E2 Request ID unknown,  Control conflict, E2 Indication unknown, E2AP Procedure timeout, Essential for operation, …) |  |
| >Transport Layer |  |  |  |  |
| >>Transport Layer Cause | M |  | ENUMERATED (Unspecified,  Transport Resource Unavailable, ...) |  |
| >Protocol |  |  |  |  |
| >>Protocol Cause | M |  | ENUMERATED (Unspecified, Transfer Syntax Error, Abstract Syntax Error (Reject), Abstract Syntax Error (Ignore and Notify), Message not Compatible with Receiver State, Semantic Error, Abstract Syntax Error (Falsely Constructed Message), ...) |  |
| >Misc |  |  |  |  |
| >>Miscellaneous Cause | M |  | ENUMERATED (Unspecified, Control Processing Overload, Hardware Failure, O&M Intervention, ...) |  |

The meaning of the different cause values is described in the following table. In general, "not supported" cause values indicate that the related capability is missing. On the other hand, "not available" cause values indicate that the related capability is present, but insufficient resources were available to perform the requested action.

| Application Layer cause | Meaning |
| --- | --- |
| Unspecified | Sent when none of the cause values below applies but still the cause is Application Layer related. |
| Global E2Node ID invalid | Global E2Node ID invalid. |
| E2 Node Reset or Disconnected | E2Node Status is Reset or Disconnected. |
| RAN Function ID invalid | Requested RAN Function ID invalid. |
| Action not supported | Requested Action not supported by RAN function. |
| Excessive actions | Excessive number of actions requested for RAN Function. |
| Duplicate action | Same action requested more than once in same subscription request. |
| E2 Request ID unknown | E2 Request ID sent to Near-RT RIC is unknown. |
| Control Conflict | Requested Control command causes conflict. |
| E2 Indication unknown | The E2 Indication message is unknown, i.e. The received indication message is not subscribed to by the xApp. |
| E2AP Procedure timeout | An E2AP procedure triggered by the E2-related API procedure is time-out. |
| Essential for operation | xApp is unwilling to delete an E2 subscription essential for its operation. |

| Transport Layer cause | Meaning |
| --- | --- |
| Unspecified | Sent when none of the cause values below applies but still the cause is Transport Layer related. |
| Transport Resource Unavailable | The required transport resources are not available. |

| Protocol cause | Meaning |
| --- | --- |
| Unspecified | Sent when none of the below cause values applies but still the cause is Protocol related. |
| Transfer Syntax Error | The received message included a transfer syntax error. |
| Abstract Syntax Error (Reject) | The received message included an abstract syntax error and the concerning criticality indicated "reject". |
| Abstract Syntax Error (Ignore And Notify) | The received message included an abstract syntax error and the concerning criticality indicated "ignore and notify". |
| Message Not Compatible With Receiver State | The received message was not compatible with the receiver state. |
| Semantic Error | The received message included a semantic error. |
| Abstract Syntax Error (Falsely Constructed Message) | The received message contained IEs or IE groups in wrong order or with too many occurrences. |

| Miscellaneous cause | Meaning |
| --- | --- |
| Unspecified Failure | Sent when none of the below cause values applies and the cause is not related to any of the categories Application Layer, Transport Layer, Protocol. |
| Control Processing Overload | Control processing overload. |
| Hardware Failure | Action related to hardware failure. |
| O&M Intervention | The action is due to O&M intervention. |

#### 6.3.3.5 Criticality Diagnostics

The Criticality Diagnostics IE is sent by the xApp or the Near-RT RIC Platform when parts of a received message have not been comprehended or were missing. When applicable, it contains information about which IEs were not comprehended or were missing.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Information Element Criticality Diagnostics |  | 0 .. <maxnoofErrors> |  |  |
| >IE Criticality | M |  | ENUMERATED (reject, ignore, notify) | The IE Criticality is used for reporting the criticality of the triggering IE. The value 'ignore' shall not be used. |
| >IE ID | M |  | ENUMERATED (Message Type, Procedure Transaction ID, Global E2 Node ID, RAN Function ID…) | The IE ID of the not understood or missing IE. |
| >Type of Error | M |  | ENUMERATED (not understood, missing, ...) |  |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxnoofErrors | Maximum no. of IE errors allowed to be reported with a single message. Value is 256. |

#### 6.3.3.6 E2 Control Timer

This IE specifies the suggested time to wait before timeout for the RIC Control procedure in E2AP[3].

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| E2 Control Timer | M |  | INTEGER (10..10000, ...) | Unit in milliseconds. |

#### 6.3.3.7 E2 Subscription Timer

This IE specifies the suggested time to wait before timeout for the RIC subscription procedure in E2AP[3].

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| E2 Subscription Timer | M |  | INTEGER (10..10000, ...) | Unit in milliseconds. |

#### 6.3.3.8 E2 Subscription Delete Timer

This IE specifies the suggested time to wait before timeout for the RIC subscription deletion procedure in E2AP[3].

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| E2 Subscription Delete Timer | M |  | INTEGER (10..10000, ...) | Unit in milliseconds. |

### 6.3.4 Message and Information Element Abstract Syntax

#### 6.3.4.1 Solution 1: SCTP with Protocol Buffers

##### 6.3.4.1.1 Usage of SCTP with Protocol Buffers

This solution uses Protocol Buffers as message encoding, and SCTP as the transport protocol.

The PDU on the SCTP connection uses the structure as defined in clause 10.1.8 where its API Payload IE serves as a container for individual API messages in clause 6.3.4.1.2 which can be E2SubscriptionApiPayload or E2IndicationApiPayload or E2ControlApiPayload.

Table 6.3.4.1.1-1 lists the E2 related APIs abstract syntax included in this document.

| API Name / Contents | Clause | Version | File Name |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| E2_Subscription_API | 6.3.4.1.2.1 | 2.0.0 | e2_subscription_api_ver_2_0_0.proto |
| E2_Indication_API | 6.3.4.1.2.2 | 2.0.0 | e2_indication_api_ver_2_0_0.proto |
| E2_Control_API | 6.3.4.1.2.3 | 2.0.0 | e2_control_api_ver_2_0_0.proto |
| E2 related API common information elements | 6.3.4.1.3 | 1.1.0 | e2_related_apis_common_ies_ver_1_1_0.proto |
| Near-RT RIC API common information elements | 10.2.1 | 2.0.0 | near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies_ver_2_0_0.proto |

##### 6.3.4.1.2 API Definitions

syntax = "proto3";

package ricapi.e2_subscription_api.v2;

import "near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies_ver_2_0_0.proto";

import "e2_related_apis_common_ies_ver_1_1_0.proto";

// top-level PDU

message E2SubscriptionApiPayload {

oneof procedure_type {

E2SubscriptionProc e2_subscription_proc = 1;

E2SubscriptionDeleteProc e2_subscription_delete_proc = 2;

E2SubscriptionDeleteQueryProc e2_subscription_delete_query_proc = 3;

E2SubscriptionDeleteNotificationProc e2_subscription_delete_notification_proc = 4;

}

}

// ---------------- procedures of E2_Subscription_API ----------------

message E2SubscriptionProc {

oneof type_of_message {

E2SubscriptionRequest e2_subscription_request = 1 ;

E2SubscriptionSuccess e2_subscription_success = 2 ;

E2SubscriptionReject e2_subscription_reject = 3 ;

E2SubscriptionFailure e2_subscription_failure = 4 ;

}

}

message E2SubscriptionDeleteProc {

oneof type_of_message {

E2SubscriptionDeleteRequest e2_subscription_delete_request = 1 ;

E2SubscriptionDeleteSuccess e2_subscription_delete_success = 2 ;

E2SubscriptionDeleteReject e2_subscription_delete_reject = 3 ;

E2SubscriptionDeleteFailure e2_subscription_delete_failure = 4 ;

}

}

message E2SubscriptionDeleteQueryProc {

oneof type_of_message {

E2SubscriptionDeleteQueryRequired e2_subscription_delete_query_required = 1 ;

E2SubscriptionDeleteQueryAccept e2_subscription_delete_query_accept = 2 ;

E2SubscriptionDeleteQueryDecline e2_subscription_delete_query_reject = 3 ;

}

}

message E2SubscriptionDeleteNotificationProc {

oneof type_of_message {

E2SubscriptionDeleteNotificationDeleted e2_subscription_delete_notification_deleted = 1 ;

}

}

// ---------------- messages of E2_Subscription_API ----------------

// -------- messages of E2 Subscription procedure --------

message E2SubscriptionRequest {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 1;

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.GlobalE2NodeId global_e2_node_id = 2;

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.RanFunctionId ran_function_id = 3;

optional E2SubscriptionDetails e2_subscription_details = 4;

optional uint32 e2_subscription_timer = 5;

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.EndpointInformation e2_indication_destination = 6;

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.EndpointInformation e2_subscription_delete_notification_destination = 7;

message E2SubscriptionDetails {

optional e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1.E2EventTriggerDefinition e2_event_trigger_definition = 1;

repeated E2ActionToBeSetupItem sequence_of_actions = 2 ;

message E2ActionToBeSetupItem {

optional e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1.E2ActionId requested_e2_action_id = 1 ;

optional e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1.E2ActionType e2_action_type = 2 ;

optional e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1.E2ActionDefinition e2_action_definition = 3 ;

optional e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1.E2SubsequentAction e2_subsequent_action = 4 ;

}

}

}

message E2SubscriptionSuccess {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 1;

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.GlobalE2NodeId global_e2_node_id = 2;

optional e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1.E2RequestId e2_request_id = 3;

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.RanFunctionId ran_function_id = 4;

repeated E2ActionAdmittedItem e2_actions_admitted_list = 5;

repeated E2ActionNotAdmittedItem e2_actions_not_admitted_list = 6;

message E2ActionAdmittedItem {

optional e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1.E2ActionId requested_e2_action_id = 1 ;

optional e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1.E2ActionId e2_action_id = 2 ;

}

message E2ActionNotAdmittedItem {

optional e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1.E2ActionId requested_e2_action_id = 1 ;

optional e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1.Cause cause = 2 ;

}

}

message E2SubscriptionFailure {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 1;

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.GlobalE2NodeId global_e2_node_id = 2;

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.RanFunctionId ran_function_id = 3;

optional e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1.Cause cause = 4;

optional e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1.CriticalityDiagnostics criticality_diagnostics = 5;

}

message E2SubscriptionReject {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 1;

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.GlobalE2NodeId global_e2_node_id = 2;

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.RanFunctionId ran_function_id = 3;

optional e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1.Cause cause = 4;

optional e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1.CriticalityDiagnostics criticality_diagnostics = 5;

}

// -------- messages of E2 Subscription Delete procedure --------

message E2SubscriptionDeleteRequest {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 1;

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.GlobalE2NodeId global_e2_node_id = 2;

optional e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1.E2RequestId e2_request_id = 3;

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.RanFunctionId ran_function_id = 4;

optional uint32 e2_subscription_delete_timer = 5;

}

message E2SubscriptionDeleteSuccess {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 1;

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.GlobalE2NodeId global_e2_node_id = 2;

optional e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1.E2RequestId e2_request_id = 3;

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.RanFunctionId ran_function_id = 4;

}

message E2SubscriptionDeleteFailure {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 1;

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.GlobalE2NodeId global_e2_node_id = 2;

optional e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1.E2RequestId e2_request_id = 3;

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.RanFunctionId ran_function_id = 4;

optional e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1.Cause cause = 5;

optional e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1.CriticalityDiagnostics criticality_diagnostics = 6;

}

message E2SubscriptionDeleteReject {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 1;

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.GlobalE2NodeId global_e2_node_id = 2;

optional e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1.E2RequestId e2_request_id = 3;

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.RanFunctionId ran_function_id = 4;

optional e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1.Cause cause = 5;

optional e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1.CriticalityDiagnostics criticality_diagnostics = 6;

}

// -------- messages of E2 Subscription Delete Query procedure --------

message E2SubscriptionDeleteQueryRequired {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 1;

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.GlobalE2NodeId global_e2_node_id = 2;

optional e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1.E2RequestId e2_request_id = 3;

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.RanFunctionId ran_function_id = 4;

optional e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1.Cause cause = 5;

}

message E2SubscriptionDeleteQueryAccept {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 1;

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.GlobalE2NodeId global_e2_node_id = 2;

optional e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1.E2RequestId e2_request_id = 3;

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.RanFunctionId ran_function_id = 4;

}

message E2SubscriptionDeleteQueryDecline {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 1;

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.GlobalE2NodeId global_e2_node_id = 2;

optional e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1.E2RequestId e2_request_id = 3;

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.RanFunctionId ran_function_id = 4;

optional e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1.Cause cause = 5;

}

// -------- messages of E2 Subscription Delete Notification procedure --------

message E2SubscriptionDeleteNotificationDeleted {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 1;

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.GlobalE2NodeId global_e2_node_id = 2;

optional e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1.E2RequestId e2_request_id = 3;

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.RanFunctionId ran_function_id = 4;

optional e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1.Cause cause = 5;

}

syntax = "proto3";

package ricapi.e2_indication_api.v2;

import "near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies_ver_2_0_0.proto";

import "e2_related_apis_common_ies_ver_1_1_0.proto";

// top-level PDU

message E2IndicationApiPayload {

oneof procedure_type {

E2IndicationProc e2_indication_proc = 1;

}

}

// ---------------- procedures of E2_Subscription_API ----------------

message E2IndicationProc {

oneof type_of_message {

E2IndicationPush e2_indication_push = 1 ;

E2IndicationFailure e2_indication_failure = 2 ;

}

}

// ---------------- messages of E2_Indication_API ----------------

// -------- messages of E2 Indication procedure --------

message E2IndicationPush {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.GlobalE2NodeId global_e2_node_id = 1;

optional e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1.E2RequestId e2_request_id = 2;

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.RanFunctionId ran_function_id = 3;

optional e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1.E2ActionId e2_action_id = 4;

optional e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1.E2IndicationSN e2_indication_sn = 5;

optional e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1.E2IndicationType e2_indication_type = 6;

optional e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1.E2IndicationHeader e2_indication_header = 7;

optional e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1.E2IndicationMessage e2_indication_message = 8;

optional e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1.E2CallProcessId e2_call_process_id = 9;

}

message E2IndicationFailure {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.GlobalE2NodeId global_e2_node_id = 1;

optional e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1.E2RequestId e2_request_id = 2;

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.RanFunctionId ran_function_id = 3;

optional e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1.E2ActionId e2_action_id = 4;

optional e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1.E2IndicationSN e2_indication_sn = 5;

optional e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1.Cause cause = 6;

optional e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1.CriticalityDiagnostics criticality_diagnostics = 7;

}

syntax = "proto3";

package ricapi.e2_control_api.v2;

import "near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies_ver_2_0_0.proto";

import "e2_related_apis_common_ies_ver_1_1_0.proto";

// top-level PDU

message E2ControlApiPayload {

oneof procedure_type {

E2ControlProc e2_control_proc = 1;

}

}

// ---------------- procedures of E2_Control_API ----------------

message E2ControlProc {

oneof type_of_message {

E2ControlRequest e2_control_request = 1;

E2ControlSuccess e2_control_success = 2;

E2ControlReject e2_control_reject = 3;

E2ControlFailure e2_control_failure = 4;

}

}

// ---------------- messages of E2_Control_API ----------------

// -------- messages of E2 Control procedure --------

message E2ControlRequest {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 1;

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.GlobalE2NodeId global_e2_node_id = 2;

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.RanFunctionId ran_function_id = 3;

optional e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1.E2CallProcessId e2_call_process_id = 4;

optional e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1.E2ControlHeader e2_control_header = 5;

optional e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1.E2ControlMessage e2_control_message = 6;

optional e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1.E2ControlAckRequest e2_control_ack_request = 7;

optional uint32 e2_control_timer = 8;

}

message E2ControlSuccess {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 1;

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.GlobalE2NodeId global_e2_node_id = 2;

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.RanFunctionId ran_function_id = 3;

optional e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1.E2CallProcessId e2_call_process_id = 4;

optional e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1.E2ControlOutcome e2_control_outcome = 5;

}

message E2ControlReject {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 1;

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.GlobalE2NodeId global_e2_node_id = 2;

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.RanFunctionId ran_function_id = 3;

optional e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1.Cause cause = 4;

optional e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1.CriticalityDiagnostics criticality_diagnostics = 5;

}

message E2ControlFailure {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 1;

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.GlobalE2NodeId global_e2_node_id = 2;

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.RanFunctionId ran_function_id = 3;

optional e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1.E2CallProcessId e2_call_process_id = 4;

optional e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1.E2ControlOutcome e2_control_outcome = 5;

optional e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1.Cause cause = 6;

optional e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1.CriticalityDiagnostics criticality_diagnostics = 7;

}

##### 6.3.4.1.3 Information Element Definitions

syntax = "proto3";

package ricapi.e2_related_apis_common_ies.v1;

import "near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies_ver_2_0_0.proto";

// ----------------------------- Information Elements -----------------------------

// --------------E--------------

// From E2AP Clause 9.2.11

enum E2ActionType {

E2ACTION_TYPE_REPORT = 0;

E2ACTION_TYPE_INSERT = 1;

E2ACTION_TYPE_POLICY = 2;

};

// From E2AP Clause 9.2.21

enum E2ControlAckRequest {

E2_CONTROL_ACK_REQUEST_NO_ACK = 0;

E2_CONTROL_ACK_REQUEST_ACK = 1;

}

// From E2AP Clause 9.2.15

enum E2IndicationType {

E2_INDICATION_TYPE_REPORT = 0;

E2_INDICATION_TYPE_INSERT = 1;

}

// --------------C--------------

message Cause {

oneof cause_group {

E2RelatedApiCause e2_related_api_cause = 1;

E2apCause e2ap_cause = 2;

}

message E2apCause {

oneof cause_group {

RicRequest ric_request = 1;

RicService ric_service = 2;

E2Node e2_node = 3;

Transport transport = 4;

Protocol protocol = 5;

Misc misc = 6;

}

enum E2Node {

E2NODE_COMPONENT_UNKNOWN = 0;

}

enum Misc {

CONTROL_PROCESSING_OVERLOAD = 0;

HARDWARE_FAILURE = 1;

OM_INTERVENTION = 2;

MISC_UNSPECIFIED = 3;

}

enum Protocol {

TRANSFER_SYNTAX_ERROR = 0;

ABSTRACT_SYNTAX_ERROR_REJECT = 1;

ABSTRACT_SYNTAX_ERROR_IGNORE_AND_NOTIFY = 2;

MESSAGE_NOT_COMPATIBLE_WITH_RECEIVER_STATE = 3;

SEMANTIC_ERROR = 4;

ABSTRACT_SYNTAX_ERROR_FALSELY_CONSTRUCTED_MESSAGE = 5;

PROTOCOL_UNSPECIFIED = 6;

}

enum RicRequest {

RAN_FUNCTION_ID_INVALID = 0;

ACTION_NOT_SUPPORTED = 1;

EXCESSIVE_ACTIONS = 2;

DUPLICATE_ACTION = 3;

DUPLICATE_EVENT_TRIGGER = 4;

FUNCTION_RESOURCE_LIMIT = 5;

REQUEST_ID_UNKNOWN = 6;

INCONSISTENT_ACTION_SUBSEQUENT_ACTION_SEQUENCE = 7;

CONTROL_MESSAGE_INVALID = 8;

RIC_CALL_PROCESS_ID_INVALID = 9;

CONTROL_TIMER_EXPIRED = 10;

CONTROL_FAILED_TO_EXECUTE = 11;

SYSTEM_NOT_READY = 12;

RIC_REQUEST_UNSPECIFIED = 13;

}

enum RicService {

RAN_FUNCTION_NOT_SUPPORTED = 0;

EXCESSIVE_FUNCTIONS = 1;

RIC_RESOURCE_LIMIT = 2;

}

enum Transport {

TRANSPORT_UNSPECIFIED = 0;

TRANSPORT_RESOURCE_UNAVAILABLE = 1;

}

}

message E2RelatedApiCause {

oneof cause_group {

ApplicationLayer  application_layer = 1;

Transport transport = 2;

Protocol protocol = 3;

Misc misc = 4;

}

enum ApplicationLayer {

APPLICATION_LAYER_UNSPECIFIED = 0;

GLOBAL_E2_NODE_ID_INVALID = 1;

E2_NODE_RESET_OR_DISCONNECTED = 2;

RAN_FUNCTION_ID_INVALID = 3;

ACTION_NOT_SUPPORTED = 4;

EXCESSIVE_ACTIONS = 5;

DUPLICATE_ACTION = 6;

E2_REQUEST_ID_UNKNOWN = 7;

CONTROL_CONFLICT = 8;

E2_INDICATION_UNKNOWN = 9;

E2AP_PROCEDURE_TIMEOUT = 10;

ESSENTIAL_FOR_OPERATION = 11;

}

enum Misc {

MISC_UNSPECIFIED = 0;

CONTROL_PROCESSING_OVERLOAD = 1;

HARDWARE_FAILURE = 2;

OM_INTERVENTION = 3;

}

enum Protocol {

PROTOCOL_UNSPECIFIED = 0;

TRANSFER_SYNTAX_ERROR = 1;

ABSTRACT_SYNTAX_ERROR_REJECT = 2;

ABSTRACT_SYNTAX_ERROR_IGNORE_AND_NOTIFY = 3;

MESSAGE_NOT_COMPATIBLE_WITH_RECEIVER_STATE = 4;

SEMANTIC_ERROR = 5;

ABSTRACT_SYNTAX_ERROR_FALSELY_CONSTRUCTED_MESSAGE = 6;

}

enum Transport {

TRANSPORT_UNSPECIFIED = 0;

TRANSPORT_RESOURCE_UNAVAILABLE = 1;

}

}

}

message CriticalityDiagnostics {

repeated IeCriticalityDiagnosticsItem ie_criticality_diagnostics_list = 1;

message IeCriticalityDiagnosticsItem {

optional IeCriticality ie_criticality = 1;

optional IeId ie_id = 2;

optional TypeOfError type_of_error = 3;

}

enum IeCriticality {

IE_CRITICALITY_REJECT = 0;

IE_CRITICALITY_IGNORE = 1;

IE_CRITICALITY_NOTIFY = 2;

}

enum IeId {

IE_ID_CAUSE = 0;

IE_ID_CRITICALITY_DIAGNOSTICS = 1;

IE_ID_E2_ACTION_ID = 2;

IE_ID_E2_ACTIONS_ADMITTED_LIST = 3;

IE_ID_E2_ACTIONS_NOT_ADMITTED_LIST = 4;

IE_ID_E2_CALL_PROCESS_ID = 5;

IE_ID_E2_CONTROL_ACK_REQUEST = 6;

IE_ID_E2_CONTROL_HEADER = 7;

IE_ID_E2_CONTROL_MESSAGE = 8;

IE_ID_E2_CONTROL_OUTCOME = 9;

IE_ID_E2_CONTROL_TIMER = 10;

IE_ID_E2_INDICATION_HEADER = 11;

IE_ID_E2_INDICATION_MESSAGE = 12;

IE_ID_E2_INDICATION_SN = 13;

IE_ID_E2_INDICATION_TYPE = 14;

IE_ID_E2_REQUEST_ID = 15;

IE_ID_E2_SUBSCRIPTION_DETAILS = 16;

IE_ID_GLOBAL_E2_NODE_ID = 17;

IE_ID_PROCEDURE_TRANSACTION_ID = 18;

IE_ID_RAN_FUNCTION_ID = 19;

IE_ID_SEQUENCE_OF_ACTIONS = 20;

IE_ID_E2_SUBSCRIPTION_TIMER = 21;

IE_ID_E2_SUBSCRIPTION_DELETE_TIMER = 22;

}

enum TypeOfError {

TYPE_OF_ERROR_NOT_UNDERSTOOD = 0;

TYPE_OF_ERROR_MISSING = 1;

}

}

// --------------E--------------

message E2ActionDefinition {

optional bytes value = 1;

};

message E2ActionId {

optional uint32 value = 1;

};

message E2CallProcessId {

optional bytes value = 1;

};

message E2ControlHeader {

optional bytes value = 1;

};

message E2ControlMessage {

optional bytes value = 1;

};

message E2ControlOutcome {

optional bytes value = 1;

};

message E2EventTriggerDefinition {

optional bytes value = 1;

};

message E2IndicationHeader {

optional bytes value = 1;

};

message E2IndicationMessage {

optional bytes value = 1;

};

message E2IndicationSN {

optional uint32 value = 1;

};

message E2RequestId {

optional uint32 value = 1;

};

// From E2AP Clause 9.2.13

message E2SubsequentAction {

optional SubsequentActionType subsequent_action_type = 1;

optional TimeToWait e2_time_to_wait = 2;

enum SubsequentActionType {

SUBSEQUENT_ACTION_TYPE_CONTINUE = 0;

SUBSEQUENT_ACTION_TYPE_WAIT = 1;

};

enum TimeToWait {

TIME_TO_WAIT_W1MS = 0;

TIME_TO_WAIT_W2MS = 1;

TIME_TO_WAIT_W5MS = 2;

TIME_TO_WAIT_W10MS = 3;

TIME_TO_WAIT_W20MS = 4;

TIME_TO_WAIT_W30MS = 5;

TIME_TO_WAIT_W40MS = 6;

TIME_TO_WAIT_W50MS = 7;

TIME_TO_WAIT_W100MS = 8;

TIME_TO_WAIT_W200MS = 9;

TIME_TO_WAIT_W500MS = 10;

TIME_TO_WAIT_W1S = 11;

TIME_TO_WAIT_W2S = 12;

TIME_TO_WAIT_W5S = 13;

TIME_TO_WAIT_W10S = 14;

TIME_TO_WAIT_W20S = 15;

TIME_TO_WAIT_W60S = 16;

}

};

6.3.4.2	Solution 2: gRPC with Protocol Buffers

6.3.4.2.1	Usage of gRPC with Protocol Buffers

This solution uses Protocol Buffers as message encoding, and also as the Interface Definition Language (IDL) for gRPC [5].

Table 6.3.4.2.1-1 lists the mapping of enablement APIs and corresponding gRPC services.

Table 6.3.4.2.1-1: Mapping of E2 related APIs and gRPC services

| API Name | gRPC service(s) |
| --- | --- |
| E2_Subscription_API | E2_Subscription_API, E2_Subscription_API_Callback |
| E2_Indication_API |  |
| E2_Control_API |  |

A procedure of an E2 related API is mapped to a gRPC method.

Table 6.3.4.2.1-1 lists the E2 related APIs abstract syntax included in this document.

Table 6.3.4.2.1-1: List of E2 related APIs abstract syntax

| API Name / Contents | Clause | Version | File Name |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| E2_Subscription_API | 6.3.4.2.2.1 | 1.0.0 | e2_subscription_api_grpc_ver_1_0_0.proto |
| E2_Indication_API | 6.3.4.2.2.2 | 1.0.0 | e2_indication_api_ grpc_ver_1_0_0.proto |
| E2_Control_API | 6.3.4.2.2.3 | 1.0.0 | e2_control_api_ver_ grpc_1_0_0.proto |
| E2 related API common information elements | 6.3.4.1.3 | 1.1.0 | e2_related_apis_common_ies_ver_1_1_0.proto |
| Near-RT RIC API common information elements | 10.2.1 | 2.0.0 | near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies_ver_2_0_0.proto |

6.3.4.2.2	API Definitions

6.3.4.2.2.1	E2_Subscription_API

syntax = "proto3";

package ricapi.e2_subscription_api_grpc.v1;

import "e2_subscription_api_ver_2_0_0.proto";

// gRPC service and rpc definition

service E2_Subscription_API {

rpc E2SubscriptionProc(E2SubscriptionInitMsg) returns (E2SubscriptionOutMsg) {};

rpc E2SubscriptionDeleteProc(E2SubscriptionDeleteInitMsg) returns (E2SubscriptionDeleteOutMsg) {};

}

message E2SubscriptionInitMsg {

optional ricapi.e2_subscription_api.v2.E2SubscriptionRequest e2_subscription_request = 1;

}

message E2SubscriptionOutMsg {

oneof type_of_message {

ricapi.e2_subscription_api.v2.E2SubscriptionSuccess e2_subscription_success = 1;

ricapi.e2_subscription_api.v2.E2SubscriptionReject e2_subscription_reject = 2;

ricapi.e2_subscription_api.v2.E2SubscriptionFailure e2_subscription_failure = 3;

}

}

message E2SubscriptionDeleteInitMsg {

optional ricapi.e2_subscription_api.v2.E2SubscriptionDeleteRequest e2_subscription_delete_request = 1;

}

message E2SubscriptionDeleteOutMsg {

oneof type_of_message {

ricapi.e2_subscription_api.v2.E2SubscriptionDeleteSuccess e2_subscription_delete_success = 1;

ricapi.e2_subscription_api.v2.E2SubscriptionDeleteReject e2_subscription_delete_reject = 2;

ricapi.e2_subscription_api.v2.E2SubscriptionDeleteFailure e2_subscription_delete_failure = 3;

}

}

service E2_Subscription_API_Callback {

rpc E2SubscriptionDeleteQueryProc(E2SubscriptionDeleteQueryInitMsg) returns (E2SubscriptionDeleteQueryOutMsg) {};

rpc E2SubscriptionDeleteNotificationProc(E2SubscriptionDeleteNotificationInitMsg) returns (E2SubscriptionDeleteNotificationOutMsg) {};

}

message E2SubscriptionDeleteQueryInitMsg {

optional ricapi.e2_subscription_api.v2.E2SubscriptionDeleteQueryRequired e2_subscription_delete_query_required = 1;

}

message E2SubscriptionDeleteQueryOutMsg {

oneof type_of_message {

ricapi.e2_subscription_api.v2.E2SubscriptionDeleteQueryAccept e2_subscription_delete_query_accept = 1;

ricapi.e2_subscription_api.v2.E2SubscriptionDeleteQueryDecline e2_subscription_delete_query_reject = 2;

}

}

message E2SubscriptionDeleteNotificationInitMsg {

optional ricapi.e2_subscription_api.v2.E2SubscriptionDeleteNotificationDeleted e2_subscription_delete_notification_deleted = 1;

}

message E2SubscriptionDeleteNotificationOutMsg {

}

6.3.4.2.2.2	E2_Indication_API

syntax = "proto3";

package ricapi.e2_indication_api_grpc.v1;

import "e2_indication_api_ver_2_0_0.proto";

// gRPC service and rpc definition

service E2_Indication_API {

rpc E2IndicationProc(E2IndicationInitMsg) returns (E2IndicationOutMsg) {};

}

message E2IndicationInitMsg {

optional ricapi.e2_indication_api.v2.E2IndicationPush e2_indication_push = 1;

}

message E2IndicationOutMsg {

oneof type_of_message {

EmptyMessage empty_message = 1;

ricapi.e2_indication_api.v2.E2IndicationFailure e2_indication_failure = 2;

}

message EmptyMessage {

}

}

6.3.4.2.2.3	E2_Control_API

syntax = "proto3";

package ricapi.e2_control_api.v2;

import "e2_control_api_ver_2_0_0.proto";

// gRPC service and rpc definition

service E2_Control_API {

rpc E2ControlProc(E2ControlInitMsg) returns (E2ControlOutMsg) {};

}

message E2ControlInitMsg {

optional ricapi.e2_control_api.v2.E2ControlRequest e2_control_request = 1;

}

message E2ControlOutMsg {

oneof type_of_message {

ricapi.e2_control_api.v2.E2ControlSuccess e2_control_success = 1;

ricapi.e2_control_api.v2.E2ControlReject e2_control_reject = 2;

ricapi.e2_control_api.v2.E2ControlFailure e2_control_failure = 3;

}

}

### 6.3.5 Message Transfer Syntax

#### 6.3.5.1 Solution 1: SCTP with Protocol Buffers

The message transfer syntax for Solution 1 is serialized Protocol Buffers [4].

6.3.5.2	Solution 2: gRPC with Protocol Buffers

The message transfer syntax for Solution 2 is serialized Protocol Buffers [4].

# 7 SDL API

## 7.1 Overview

### 7.1.1 Protocol Stack

In this version of specification, the default and optional protocol stacks for the SDL APIs are shown on Figure 7.1.1-1.

Note: The security protocols are specified in [6].

|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| Default protocol stack : SCTP | Optional protocol stack : gRPC |

Figure 7.1.1-1: Protocol stack for SDL APIs

The SDL APIs may use the SCTP or gRPC with Protocol Buffers [4] as the application layer serialization protocol. The supported protocol by the platform API is presented to the xApps during the xApp Discovery Procedure in clause 9.2.1.

### 7.1.2 List of SDL APIs, procedures and messages

The SDL API procedures introduced in clause 9.5 of [2] are categorized under the SDL APIs. These APIs include:

These APIs are summarized in Table 7.1.2-1.

| API Name | Description |
| --- | --- |
| SDL_Information_API | Near-RT RIC platform service for SDL information operation |
| Xapp_Data_Sharing_API | xApp service to share SDL data produced by the xApp |

The table 7.1.2-2 lists the API procedures for each SDL API.

| API Name | API procedure | Communication type |
| --- | --- | --- |
| SDL_Information_API | SDL Information Subscribe | Request/Response |
| SDL_Information_API | SDL Information Push | Notify |
| SDL_Information_API | SDL Information Update Notify | Notify |
| SDL_Information_API | SDL Information Fetch | Request/Response |
| Xapp_Data_Sharing_API | Xapp Shared Data Fetch | Request/Response |
| Xapp_Data_Sharing_API | Xapp Shared Data Subscrbe | Request/Response |
| Xapp_Data_Sharing_API | Xapp Shared Data Subscription Delete | Request/Response |
| Xapp_Data_Sharing_API | Xapp Shared Data Push | Notify |

The table 7.1.2-3 lists the messages for each SDL API procedure.

| API Procedure | Initiated by | Initiating Message | Outcome Message |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| API Procedure | Initiated by | Initiating Message | Successful Outcome | Unsuccessful Outcome |
| SDL Information Subscribe | xApp | Subscribe Information REQUEST | Subscribe Information RESPONSE | Subscribe Information FAILURE |
| SDL Information Push | Near-RT RIC platform | Information PUSH | - |  |
| SDL Information Update Notify | Near-RT RIC platform | INFORMATION UPDATE NOTIFY | - |  |
| SDL Information Fetch | xApp | INFORMATION FETCH REQUEST | INFORMATION FETCH RESPONSE | INFORMATION FETCH FAILURE |
| Xapp Shared Data Fetch | Near-RT RIC platform or data consumer xApp | xAPP SHARED DATA FETCH REQUEST | xAPP SHARED DATA FETCH RESPONSE | xAPP SHARED DATA FETCH FAILURE |
| Xapp Shared Data Subscribe | Near-RT RIC platform or data consumer xApp | XAPP SHARED DATA SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST | XAPP SHARED DATA SUBSCRIPTION RESPONSE | XAPP SHARED DATA SUBSCRIPTION FAILURE |
| Xapp Shared Data Subscription Delete | Near-RT RIC platform or data consumer xApp | XAPP SHARED DATA SUBSCRIPTION DELETE REQUEST | XAPP SHARED DATA SUBSCRIPTION DELETE RESPONSE | XAPP SHARED DATA SUBSCRIPTION DELETE FAILURE |
| Xapp Shared Data Push | xApp | xAPP SHARED DATA PUSH | - |  |

The table 7.1.2-4 lists the supported data categories for each SDL API in this release.

Table 7.1.2-4: Supported Data Categories

| API Name | Supported Data Categories |
| --- | --- |
| SDL_Information_API | E2 Node Infomation |
| Xapp_Data_Sharing_API | RAN Analytics Information |

## 7.2 SDL API Procedures

### 7.2.1 SDL Client Registration procedure

### 7.2.2 SDL Client Deregistration procedure

### 7.2.3 SDL Subscribe Information procedure

#### 7.2.3.1 General

This procedure is used by the xApp to subscribe to the SDL for the information that it is interested to obtain.

#### 7.2.3.2 Successful Operation

Figure 7.2.3.2-1: Subscribe Information procedure, successful operation

The xApp initiates the procedure by sending the SUBSCRIBE INFORMATION REQUEST message.

The message shall include:

-	the SDL Data Type ID IE, which indicates the requested SDL data type;

-	the Delivery Method IE, which indicates the method of data delivery;

-	the Notification Destination IE, which specifies the endpoint to receive associated notification(s);

-	the Notification Criteria IE, which specifies the timing related to the notification(s). It shall include:

-	the Notification Method IE, which indicates the notification(s) are periodic or event triggered;

-	the Notification Period IE if the Notification Method IE is set to "PERIODIC", which indicates the time inverval between periodic notifications;

-	the Trigger Event Definition IE if the Notification Method IE is set to "EVENT_TRIGGERED", which contains the description of the triggering event;

The message may include:

-	the SDL Data Description IE, which contains the detailed descriptions for the requested data.

When the Near-RT RIC platform receives the request, it searches the local database or data sources for the requested information.

If the Near-RT RIC platform successfully processes the request, it shall prepare necessary resource for the subscription, assign a subscription ID, and responds to the xApp with the SUBSCRIBE INFORMATION RESPONSE message.

#### 7.2.3.3 Unsuccessful Operation

Figure 7.2.3.3-1: Subscribe Information procedure, unsuccessful operation

If the Near-RT RIC platform can not accept the request it shall respond with the SUBSCRIBE INFORMATION FAILURE message and the proper cause. If the message contains Time To Wait IE the xApp shall wait at least the indicated time before reinitiating the request to the Near-RT RIC platform.

#### 7.2.3.4 Abnormal Conditions

If the Near-RT RIC platform receives a SUBSCRIBE INFORMATION REQUEST message containing Information Type IE that is not supported by the Near-RT RIC platform, or the optional filter definition is invalid, the Near-RT RIC platform shall send the SUBSCRIBE INFORMATION FAILURE message to the xApp with an appropriate cause value.

### 7.2.4 SDL Information Push procedure

#### 7.2.4.1 General

This procedure is used by the Near-RT RIC platform to send the latest information from the Near-RT RIC platform to the xApp based on what the xApp has subscribed when the Delivery Method IE set to "PUSH_DELTA" or "PUSH_FULL" in the subscribe information request.

#### 7.2.4.2 Successful Operation

Figure 7.2.4.2-1: Information Push procedure, successful operation

The Near-RT RIC initiates the procedure by sending the INFORMATION PUSH message.

The message shall include:

-	the Subscription ID IE, which indicates the associated subscription;

-	the SDL Data Type ID IE, which indicates the SDL data Type carried in the message;

-	the SDL Data Block IE, which carries the SDL data and shall include:

-	the SDL Data Unit IE, which contains a single item of the SDL data;

-	the Modification Type IE, which indicates type of change (added, modified, removed, etc.) associated with the SDL data in the SDL Data Unit IE.

#### 7.2.4.3 Unsuccessful Operation

Not applicable.

#### 7.2.4.4 Abnormal Conditions

Not applicable.

### 7.2.5 SDL Information Update Notify procedure

#### 7.2.5.1 General

This procedure is used by the Near-RT RIC platform to notify the xApp that certain information subscribed by the xApp has been updated and available to be fetched. The procedure is used when the Delivery Method IE set to "UPDATE_NOTIFY" in the subscribe information request.

#### 7.2.5.2 Successful Operation

Figure 7.2.5.2-1: Information Update Notify procedure, successful operation

The Near-RT RIC platform initiates the procedure by sending the INFORMATION UPDATE NOTIFY message.

The message shall include:

-	the Subscription ID IE, which indicates the associated subscription;

-	the SDL Data Type ID IE, which indicates the SDL data Type carried in the message;

-	the SDL Data Block IE, which carries the SDL data and shall include:

-	the SDL Update Notify Unit IE, which contains a single item of the SDL data;

-	the Modification Type IE, which indicates type of change (added, modified, removed, etc.) associated with the SDL data in the SDL Update Notify Unit IE.

Once the xApp has received the message, xApp can determine to retrieve the updated information through the Information Fetch procedure described in clause 7.2.6.

#### 7.2.5.3 Unsuccessful Operation

Not applicable.

#### 7.2.5.4 Abnormal Conditions

Not applicable.

### 7.2.6 SDL Information Fetch procedure

#### 7.2.6.1 General

This procedure is used by the xApp to fetch certain information from the SDL.

#### 7.2.6.2 Successful Operation

Figure 7.2.6.2-1: SDL Information Fetch procedure, successful operation

The xApp initiates the procedure by sending the INFORMATION FETCH REQUEST message.

The message shall include:

-	the SDL Data Type ID IE, which indicates the requested SDL data type.

The message may include:

-	the SDL Data Description IE, which contains the detailed descriptions for the requested data.

When the Near-RT RIC platform receives the request, it searches the local database or data sources for the fetched information.

If the SDL contains matching data for the fetch request, the Near-RT RIC platform sends the requested data to the xApp in the INFORMATION FETCH RESPONSE message.

#### 7.2.6.3 Unsuccessful Operation

If the data corresponding to a fetch request is not found, the Near-RT RIC platform sends an INFORMATION FETCH FAILURE message with an appropriate failure cause.

#### 7.2.6.4 Abnormal Conditions

If the Near-RT RIC platform receives a INFORMATION FETCH REQUEST message containing SDL Data Type ID IE that is not supported by the Near-RT RIC platform, or the optional SDL Data Description IE definition is invalid, the Near-RT RIC platform shall send the INFORMATION FETCH FAILURE message to the xApp with an appropriate cause value.

### 7.2.7 Store Data procedure

### 7.2.8 Modify Data procedure

7.2.9	Xapp Shared Data Fetch procedure

7.2.9.1		General

This procedure is used by the Near-RT RIC platform or the data consumer xApp to fetch specific types of data shared by the data producer xApp.

7.2.9.2		Successful Operation

Figure 7.2.9.2-1: xApp Shared Data Fetch procedure, successful operation

The data consumer initiates the procedure by sending the XAPP SHARED DATA FETCH REQUEST message.

The message shall include:

-	the SDL Data Type ID IE, which indicates the requested SDL data type.

The message may include:

-	the SDL Data Description IE, which contains the detailed descriptions for the requested data.

Upon receiving the message, the data producer xApp shall check the authorization for the data consumer to access the requested data. If the requested data is available at the producer xApp, the producer xApp shall send the requested data to the data consumer in the XAPP SHARED DATA FETCH RESPONSE message.

7.2.9.3		Unsuccessful Operation

Figure 7.2.9.3-1: xApp Shared Data Fetch procedure, unsuccessful operation

If the data consumer is not authorized, or the requested data specified in the XAPP SHARED DATA FETCH REQUEST is unavailable, the producer xApp shall send an XAPP SHARED DATA FETCH FAILURE message with appropriate cause.

7.2.9.4		Abnormal Conditions

Not applicable.

7.2.10	Xapp Shared Data Subscribe procedure

7.2.10.1		General

This procedure is used by the Near-RT RIC platform or the data consumer xApp to subscribe to specific types of data shared by the data producer xApp.

7.2.10.2		Successful Operation

Figure 7.2.10.2-1: xApp Shared Data Subscribe procedure, successful operation

The data consumer initiates the procedure by sending the XAPP SHARED DATA SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST message.

The message shall include:

-	the SDL Data Type ID IE, which indicates the requested SDL data type;

-	the Delivery Method IE, which indicates the method of data delivery;

-	the Notification Destination IE, which specifies the endpoint to receive associated notification(s);

-	the Notification Criteria IE, which specifies the timing related to the notification(s). It shall include:

-	the Notification Method IE, which indicates the notification(s) are periodic or event triggered;

-	the Notification Period IE if the Notification Method IE is set to "PERIODIC", which indicates the time inverval between periodic notifications;

-	the Trigger Event Definition IE if the Notification Method IE is set to "EVENT_TRIGGERED", which contains the description of the triggering event;

The message may include:

-	the SDL Data Description IE, which contains the detailed descriptions for the requested data.

Upon receiving the message, the data producer xApp shall check the authorization for the data consumer to subscribe to the requested data. If the requested subscription can be fulfilled, the producer xApp shall prepare necessary resource for the subscription,  assign a subscription ID, and send the XAPP SHARED DATA SUBSCRIPTION RESPONSE message to the data consumer.

The message shall include:

-	the Subscription ID IE, which contains the subscription ID.

7.2.10.3		Unsuccessful Operation

Figure 7.2.10.3-1: xApp Shared Data Subscribe procedure, unsuccessful operation

If the data consumer is not authorized, or the requested subscription cannot be fulfilled, the producer xApp shall send the XAPP SHARED DATA FETCH FAILURE message with appropriate cause.

7.2.10.4		Abnormal Conditions

Not Applicable.

7.2.11	Xapp Shared Data Subscription Delete procedure

7.2.11.1		General

This procedure is used by the Near-RT RIC platform or the data consumer xApp to delete an existing xApp shared data subscription toward the data producer xApp.

7.2.11.2		Successful Operation

Figure 7.2.11.2-1: xApp Shared Data Subscription Delete procedure, successful operation

The data consumer initiates the procedure by sending the XAPP SHARED DATA SUBSCRIPTION DELETE message.

The message shall include:

-	the Subscription ID IE, which indicates the subscription to delete;

Upon receiving the message, the data producer xApp shall check the authorization for the data consumer. If the subscription is present, the data producer xApp shall release the resource for the subscription, and send the XAPP SHARED DATA SUBSCRIPTION DELETE RESPONSE message to the data consumer.

7.2.11.3		Unsuccessful Operation

Figure 7.2.11.3-1: xApp Shared Data Subscription Delete procedure, unsuccessful operation

If the data consumer is not authorized, or the subscription indicated by the Subscription ID IE is not present, the data producer xApp shall send the XAPP SHARED DATA SUBSCRIPTION DELETE FAILURE message with appropriate cause.

7.2.11.4		Abnormal Conditions

Not applicable.

7.2.12	Xapp Shared Data Push procedure

7.2.12.1	General

This procedure is used by the data producer xApp to push the subscribed SDL data to the data consumer according to an existing subscription. The procedure is used when the Delivery Method IE set to "PUSH_DELTA" or "PUSH_FULL" in the xApp shared data subscription request.

7.2.12.2	Successful Operation

Figure 7.2.12.2-1: xApp Shared Data Push procedure, successful operation

The data producer xApp initiates the procedure by sending the XAPP SHARED DATA PUSH message.

The message shall include:

-	the Subscription ID IE, which indicates the associated subscription;

-	the SDL Data Type ID IE, which indicates the SDL data Type carried in the message;

-	the SDL Data Block IE, which carries the SDL data and shall include:

-	the SDL Data Unit IE, which contains a single item of the SDL data;

-	the Modification Type IE, which indicates type of change (added, modified, removed, etc.) associated with the SDL data in the SDL Data Unit IE.

7.2.12.3	Unsuccessful Operation

Not applicable.

7.2.12.4	Abnormal Conditions

Not applicable.

## 7.3 Elements for SDL API Communication

### 7.3.1 General

Sub clauses 7.3.2 and 7.3.3 describe the structure of the messages and information elements required for the SDL API in tabular format.

### 7.3.2 Message Functional Definition and Content

#### 7.3.2.1 SDL CLIENT REGISTRATION REQUEST

#### 7.3.2.2 SDL CLIENT REGISTRATION RESPONSE

#### 7.3.2.3 SDL CLIENT REGISTRATION FAILURE

#### 7.3.2.4 SDL CLIENT DE-REGISTRATION REQUEST

#### 7.3.2.5 SDL CLIENT DE-REGISTRATION RESPONSE

#### 7.3.2.6 SUBSCRIBE INFORMATION REQUEST

This message is sent by an xApp to the Near-RT RIC platform to subscribe to the interested information.

Direction: xApp -> Near-RT RIC platform

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 7.3.3.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| SDL Data Type ID | M |  | 7.3.3.21 | YES | Reject |  |
| Delivery Method | M |  | 7.3.3.4 | YES | Reject |  |
| SDL Data Description | O |  | 7.3.3.22 | This IE may be absent, if a default SDL Data Description is available for the SDL Type ID and used in this request. | YES | Reject |
| Notification Destination | M |  | 10.1.9 | YES | Reject |  |
| Notification Criteria | M |  | 7.3.3.24 | YES | Reject |  |

#### 7.3.2.7 SUBSCRIBE INFORMATION RESPONSE

This message is sent by the Near-RT RIC platform after successful acceptance of an xApp’s request to subscribe to the information in the SDL.

Direction: Near-RT RIC platform -> xApp

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 7.3.3.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Subscription ID | M |  | 7.3.3.26 | YES | Reject |  |

#### 7.3.2.8 SUBSCRIBE INFORMATION FAILURE

This message is sent by the Near-RT RIC platform after failure to accept an xApp’s request to subscribe to information in the SDL.

Direction: Near-RT RIC platform -> xApp

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 7.3.3.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Subscription Reject Cause | M |  | 7.3.3.9 |  |  |  |
| Time to Wait | O |  | 7.3.3.13 | If absent, no time to wait is required. |  |  |

#### 7.3.2.9 INFORMATION PUSH

This message is sent by the Near-RT RIC platform to an xApp containing the information subscribed by the xApp.

Direction: Near-RT RIC platform -> xApp

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 7.3.3.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Subscription ID | M |  | 7.3.3.26 | YES | Reject |  |
| SDL Data Type ID | M |  | 7.3.3.21 |  |  |  |
| SDL Data Block |  | 0..1 | YES | Reject |  |  |
| > SDL Data Block Item |  | 1..< maxnoofSDLDataUnits > | - |  |  |  |
| >> Modification Type | C |  | 7.3.3.10 | Shall be present when the Delivery Method IE in the subscription request is set to "PUSH_DELTA". | - |  |
| >> SDL Data Unit | M |  | 7.3.3.23 | - |  |  |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxnoofSDLDataUnits | Maximum number of SDL Data Units that can be carried in an SDL Data Block. Value is 1048576. |

#### 7.3.2.10 INFORMATION UPDATE NOTIFY

This message is sent by the Near-RT RIC platform to inform an xApp that some of the information subscribed by the xApp has been updated.

Direction: Near-RT RIC platform -> xApp

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 7.3.3.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Subscription ID | M |  | 7.3.3.26 | YES | Reject |  |
| SDL Data Type ID | M |  | 7.3.3.21 |  |  |  |
| SDL Update Notify Block |  | 0..1 | YES | Reject |  |  |
| > SDL Update Notify Block Item |  | 1..< maxnoofSDLUpdateNotifyUnits > | - |  |  |  |
| >> Modification Type | M |  | 7.3.3.10 | - |  |  |
| >> SDL Update Notify Unit | M |  | 7.3.3.27 | - |  |  |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxnoofSDLUpdateNotifyUnits | Maximum number of SDL Update Notify Units that can be carried in an SDL Update Notify Block. Value is 1048576. |

#### 7.3.2.11 INFORMATION FETCH REQUEST

This message is sent by an xApp to the Near-RT RIC platform to request certain information subscribed by the xApp.

Direction: xApp -> Near-RT RIC platform

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 7.3.3.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| SDL Data Type ID | M |  | 7.3.3.21 | YES | Reject |  |
| SDL Data Description | O |  | 7.3.3.22 | This IE may be absent when a default definition of it exists and is used in the request. | YES | Reject |

#### 7.3.2.12 INFORMATION FETCH RESPONSE

This message is sent by the Near-RT RIC platform to an xApp containing the information requested by the xApp.

Direction: Near-RT RIC platform -> xApp

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 7.3.3.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| SDL Data Type ID | M |  | 7.3.3.21 | YES | Reject |  |
| SDL Data Block |  | 0..1 | YES | Reject |  |  |
| > SDL Data Block Item |  | 1..< maxnoofSDLDataUnits > | - |  |  |  |
| >> SDL Data Unit | M |  | 7.3.3.23 | - |  |  |

#### 7.3.2.13 INFORMATION FETCH FAILURE

This message is sent by the Near-RT RIC platform to an xApp if the Information fetch request failed.

Direction: Near-RT RIC platform -> xApp

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 7.3.3.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Fetch Failure Cause | M |  | 7.3.3.18 | Cause for failure | YES | Reject |

#### 7.3.2.14 STORE DATA REQUEST

#### 7.3.2.15 STORE DATA RESPONSE

#### 7.3.2.16 STORE DATA FAILURE

#### 7.3.2.17 MODIFY DATA REQUEST

#### 7.3.2.18 MODIFY DATA RESPONSE

#### 7.3.2.19 MODIFY DATA FAILURE

#### 7.3.2.20 XAPP SHARED DATA FETCH REQUEST

This message is sent by the Near-RT RIC platform or a data consumer xApp to fetch data shared by the data producer xApp.

Direction: Near-RT RIC platform / Data consumer xApp -> Data producer xApp

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 7.3.3.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| SDL Data Type ID | M |  | 7.3.3.21 | YES | Reject |  |
| SDL Data Description | O |  | 7.3.3.22 | This IE may be absent when a default definition of it exists and is used in the request. | YES | Reject |

#### 7.3.2.21 XAPP SHARED DATA FETCH RESPONSE

This message is sent by the data producer xApp containing the fetched data requested by the Near-RT RIC platform or the data consumer xApp.

Direction: Data producer xApp  -> Near-RT RIC platform / Data consumer xApp

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 7.3.3.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| SDL Data Type ID | M |  | 7.3.3.21 | YES | Reject |  |
| SDL Data Block |  | 0..1 | YES | Reject |  |  |
| > SDL Data Block Item |  | 1..< maxnoofSDLDataUnits> | - |  |  |  |
| >> SDL Data Unit | M |  | 7.3.3.23 | - |  |  |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxnoofSDLDataUnits | Maximum number of SDL Data Block Units that can be carried in an SDL Data Block. Value is 1048576. |

7.3.2.22	XAPP SHARED DATA FETCH FAILURE

This message is sent by the data producer xApp to the Near-RT RIC platform or the data consuemr xApp if the xApp shared data fetch request fails.

Direction: Data producer xApp  -> Near-RT RIC platform / Data consumer xApp

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 7.3.3.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Fetch Failure Cause | M |  | 7.3.3.18 | Cause for failure | YES | Reject |

#### 7.3.2.23 XAPP SHARED DATA SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST

This message is sent by the Near-RT RIC platform or a data consumer xApp to subscribe to data shared by the data producer xApp.

Direction: Near-RT RIC platform / Data consumer xApp -> Data producer xApp

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 7.3.3.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| SDL Data Type ID | M |  | 7.3.3.21 | YES | Reject |  |
| SDL Data Description | O |  | 7.3.3.22 | This IE may be absent, if a default SDL Data Description is available for the SDL Type ID and used in this request. | YES | Reject |
| Delivery Method | M |  | 7.3.3.4 |  |  |  |
| Notification Destination | M |  | 10.1.9 | YES | Reject |  |
| Notification Criteria | M |  | 7.3.3.24 | YES | Reject |  |

#### 7.3.2.24 XAPP SHARED DATA SUBSCRIPTION RESPONSE

This message is sent by the data producer xApp to indicate success of the subscription request.

Direction: Data producer xApp  -> Near-RT RIC platform / Data consumer xApp

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 7.3.3.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Subscription ID | M |  | 7.3.3.26 | YES | Reject |  |

#### 7.3.2.25 XAPP SHARED DATA SUBSCRIPTION FAILURE

This message is sent by the data producer xApp to indicate failure of the subscription request.

Direction: Data producer xApp  -> Near-RT RIC platform / Data consumer xApp

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 7.3.3.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Subscription Reject Cause | M |  | 7.3.3.9 | YES | Reject |  |

7.3.2.26	XAPP SHARED DATA PUSH

This message is sent by the data producer xApp to push its shared data to the subscriber (data consumer xApp or the Near-RT RIC platform).

Direction: Data producer xApp  -> Near-RT RIC platform / Data consumer xApp

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 7.3.3.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Subscription ID | M |  | 7.3.3.26 | The same Subscription ID as in the subscription response. | YES | Reject |
| SDL Data Type ID | M |  | 7.3.3.21 | YES | Reject |  |
| SDL Data Block |  | 0..1 | YES | Reject |  |  |
| > SDL Data Block Item |  | 1..< maxnoofSDLDataUnits > | - |  |  |  |
| >> Modification Type | C |  | 7.3.3.10 | Shall be present when the Delivery Method IE in the subscription request is set to "PUSH_DELTA". | - |  |
| >> SDL Data Unit | M |  | 7.3.3.23 | - |  |  |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxnoofSDLDataUnits | Maximum number of SDL Data Units that can be carried in an SDL Data Block. Value is 1048576. |

#### 7.3.2.27 XAPP SHARED DATA SUBSCRIPTION DELETE REQUEST

This message is sent by the Near-RT RIC platform or a data consumer xApp to delete an existing subscription to the xApp shared data.

Direction: Near-RT RIC platform / Data consumer xApp -> Data producer xApp

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 7.3.3.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Subscription ID | M |  | 7.3.3.26 | The same Subscription ID as in the subscription response. | YES | Reject |

#### 7.3.2.28 XAPP SHARED DATA SUBSCRIPTION DELETE RESPONSE

This message is sent by the data producer xApp to indicate successful deletion of an existing subscription to the xApp shared data.

Direction: Data producer xApp  -> Near-RT RIC platform / Data consumer xApp

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 7.3.3.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 | YES | Reject |  |

#### 7.3.2.29 XAPP SHARED DATA SUBSCRIPTION DELETE FAILURE

This message is sent by the data producer xApp to indicate failure of the subscription request.

Direction: Data producer xApp  -> Near-RT RIC platform / Data consumer xApp

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 7.3.3.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Subscription Reject Cause | M |  | 7.3.3.9 | YES | Reject |  |

### 7.3.3 Information Element Definitions

#### 7.3.3.1 Message Type

The Message Type IE identifies the message being sent. It is mandatory for all messages.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE Type and Reference | Semantics Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type |  |  |  |  |
| >Procedure Type | M |  | CHOICE (SDL Subscription Information, SDL Information Push, SDL Information Update Notify, SDL Information Fetch, Xapp Shared Data Fetch, Xapp Shared Data Subscribe, Xapp Shared Data Subscription Delete, Xapp Shared Data Push, …) |  |
| >Type of Message | M |  | CHOICE (Request, Response, Failure, …) | Refer to Table 7.1.2-3 for applicable choices for each procedure type |

#### 7.3.3.2 Void

#### 7.3.3.3 Void

#### 7.3.3.4 Delivery Method

The Delivery Method IE indicates the delivery method in which the xApp wants the information to be delivered.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Delivery Method | M |  | ENUMERATED (UPDATE_NOTIFY, PUSH_DELTA, PUSH_FULL, …) |  |

| Value | Description |
| --- | --- |
| UPDATE_NOTIFY | Notifies only the summary of change in the data specified by the SDL Data Description IE. It uses the SDL Information Update Notify procedure for the notification. |
| PUSH_DELTA | Notifies the data that has changed since the last notification associated with the same subscription, from the data specified by the SDL Data Description IE. It uses the SDL Information Push procedure for the notification. |
| PUSH_FULL | Notifies all the data specified by the SDL Data Description IE. It uses the SDL Information Push procedure for the notification. |

#### 7.3.3.5 Void

#### 7.3.3.6 Void

#### 7.3.3.7 Void

#### 7.3.3.8 Void

#### 7.3.3.9 Subscription Reject Cause

The Subscription Reject Cause IE indicates the reason the SDL rejected the subscription.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Subscription Reject Cause | M |  | ENUMERATED (SDL reached capacity, Information type not supported, Invalid filter, Unspecified, …) |  |

#### 7.3.3.10 Modification Type

The Modification Type IE informs the type of modification that the SDL underwent.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Modification Type | M |  | ENUMERATED (Added, Modified, Removed, ….) |  |

#### 7.3.3.11 Void

#### 7.3.3.12 Void

#### 7.3.3.13 Time to wait

This IE defines the minimum allowed waiting times.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Time to wait | M |  | INTEGER (1..300) | Unit in seconds. |

#### 7.3.3.14 Void

#### 7.3.3.15 Void

#### 7.3.3.16 Void

#### 7.3.3.17 Void

#### 7.3.3.18 Fetch Failure Cause

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Fetch Failure Cause | M |  | ENUMERATED (Invalid filter, Information type not supported, No information present, Unspecified, …) |  |

#### 7.3.3.19 Void

#### 7.3.3.20 Void

7.3.3.21	SDL Data Type ID

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| SDL Data Type ID | M |  | STRING | Uniquely identifies a SDL data type. It shall be constructed with 3 fields concatenated by “:” (colon), as "{namespace}:{name}:{version}".  Clause 7.3.3.28 collects the known SDL Data Type IDs per data category. |

7.3.3.22	SDL Data Description

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| CHOICE Data Category |  |  |  |  |
| > E2 Node Information |  |  |  |  |
| >> SDL Data Description For E2 Node Information | M |  | 7.3.3.28.1.2 |  |
| > RAN Analytics Information |  |  |  |  |
| >> SDL Data Description For RAI | M |  | 7.3.3.28.2.2 |  |

7.3.3.23	SDL Data Unit

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| CHOICE Data Category |  |  |  |  |
| > E2 Node Information |  |  |  |  |
| >> SDL Data Unit For E2 Node Information | M |  | 7.3.3.28.1.3 |  |
| > RAN Analytics Information |  |  |  |  |
| >> SDL Data Unit For RAI | M |  | 7.3.3.28.2.3 |  |

7.3.3.24	Notification Criteria

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Notification Method | M |  | ENUMERATED (PERIODIC, EVENT_TRIGGERED, …) |  |
| Notification Period | C |  | INTEGER | Indicates the periodicity of notifications, in units of milliseconds.  Shall be present when Notification Method is set to "PERIODIC". |
| Trigger Event Definition | C |  | 7.3.3.25 | Shall be present when Notification Method is set to "EVENT_TRIGGERED". |

7.3.3.25	Trigger Event Definition

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| CHOICE Data Category |  |  |  |  |
| > E2 Node Information |  |  |  |  |
| >> Trigger Event Definition For E2 Node Information | M |  | 7.3.3.28.1.4 |  |
| > RAN Analytics Information |  |  |  |  |
| >> Trigger Event Definition For RAI | M |  | 7.3.3.28.2.4 |  |

7.3.3.26	Subscription ID

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Subscription ID | M |  | STRING | Uniquely identifies a SDL data subscription among all the SDL subscriptions created by a consumer. |

7.3.3.27	SDL Update Notify Unit

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| CHOICE Data Category |  |  |  |  |
| > E2 Node Information |  |  |  |  |
| >> SDL Update Notify Unit For E2 Node Information | M |  | 7.3.3.28.1.5 |  |

7.3.3.28	SDL Data Type specific IE Definitions

##### 7.3.3.28.1  E2 Node Information related IEs

To construct the SDL Data Type ID IE for E2 Node Information,

-	the namespace field is "ORAN";

-	the name field is the text value of the Information Type IE in clause 7.3.3.28.1.6, i.e., "E2NodeList", "E2NodeComponentList", "E2NodeRanFunctionList", etc.;

-	the version field is "1.0.0".

EXAMPLE:	"ORAN: E2NodeList:1.0.0"

| IE Name | Presence | Range | Data type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Information Type | M |  | 7.3.3.28.1.6 |  |
| > Filter List |  | 0..1 | Specifies the subset of the data to be subscribed for the Information Type.  Multiple filters can be specified, in which case, a logical AND shall be performed across all filters. |  |
| >> Filter Item |  | 0..<maxFilterID> |  |  |
| >>> Filter Definition | M |  | 7.3.3.28.1.7 |  |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxnoofFilters | Maximum number of Filter Items to be contained in the Filter List. Value is 256. |

| IE Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Information Unit | M |  | 7.3.3.28.1.11 |  |

| IE Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Notify On Data Change Flag | O |  | ENUMERATED (TRUE, ...) | When the IE is present and set to "TRUE", the notifications shall be triggered when the E2 Node information described by the SDL Data Description IE changes since the last nofication associated with the same subscription. |

| IE Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Notification Unit |  | 7.3.3.28.1.12 |  |  |

The IE indicates the type of E2 Node information the xApp requests.

| IE Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Information Type | M |  | ENUMERATED (E2NodeList, E2NodeComponentConfig, E2NodeRanFunction, …) |  |

The IE defnes a filter on the E2 Node information that the xApp requests. A Filter Definition is satisfied when the logical statement “X p Y” is True, where:

- -	X is the filter type, represented by the Filter Type IE;
- -	p is the filter operator, represented by the Filter Condition IE;
- -	Y is the set of the target values, represented by the Filter Condition Value IE.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Filter Type | M |  | 7.3.3.28.1.8 |  |
| Filter Condition | M |  | 7.3.3.28.1.9 |  |
| Filter Condition Value | M |  | 7.3.3.28.1.10 |  |

The IE defines the filtering condition type to identify the E2 Node information the xApp request.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Filter Type | M |  | ENUMERATED (E2NodeID, ComponentType, ServiceModel, …) | Valid values of Filter Type IE are depending on the type of E2 Node Information indicated in the Information Type IE. See table 7.3.3.28.1.8-1 for the valid settings. |

Table 7.3.3.28.1.8-1: Valid Filter Type IE settings

| Filter Type | Information Type |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Filter Type | E2NodeList | E2NodeComponentConfig | E2NodeRanFunction |
| E2NodeID | NO | YES |  |
| ComponentType | YES | NO |  |
| ServiceModel | YES | NO |  |

The IE defines the filtering condition to identify the E2 Node information the xApp requests.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Filter Condition | M |  | ENUMERATED (ContainedIn, NotContainedIn, Equals, GreanterThan, LessThan, …) |  |

The IE defines the filtering condition value to identify the information the xApp requests.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| CHOICE Filter Condition Value |  |  |  |  |
| >E2NodeID |  |  |  |  |
| >>E2 Node ID List |  | 1 |  |  |
| >>>E2 Node Item |  | 1..65536 |  |  |
| >>>>E2 Node ID | M |  | 7.3.3.14 |  |
| >>>>E2 Node State | O |  | 7.3.3.28.1.13 |  |
| >ComponentType |  |  |  |  |
| >>E2 Node Component Type List |  | 1 |  |  |
| >>>E2 Node Component Type Item |  | 1..65536 |  |  |
| >>>>E2 Node Component Type | M |  | E2 Node Component Interface Type IE, clause 9.2.26 of [3] |  |
| >ServiceModel |  |  |  |  |
| >>RAN Function OID List |  | 1 |  |  |
| >>>RAN Function OID Item |  | 1..65536 |  |  |
| >>>>RAN function OID | M |  | RAN Function OID IE, clause 9.2.31 of [3] |  |

The IE contains the E2 Node information that the Near-RT RIC platform sends to the xApp.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| CHOICE Information Unit | M |  | Contents depend on Information Type. See following table for allowed settings. |  |
| >E2 Node List Unit |  |  |  |  |
| >>E2 Node ID | M |  | 10.1.6 |  |
| >>E2 Node State | M |  | 7.3.3.28.1.13 |  |
| >E2 Node Component Config Unit |  |  |  |  |
| >>E2 Node ID | M |  | 10.1.6 |  |
| >>E2 Node Component Config List |  | 1..<maxofE2nodeComponents> | Value of "maxofE2nodeComponents" defined in 9.1.2.2 of [3]. |  |
| >>>E2 Node Component Type | M |  | E2 Node Component Interface Type IE, clause 9.2.26 of [3] |  |
| >>>E2 Node Component ID | O |  | Clause 9.2.32 of [3] |  |
| >>>E2 Node Component Configuration | M |  | Clause 9.2.27 of [3] |  |
| >>> Last Modified E2 Node Version | M |  | INTEGER | The Near-RT RIC platform maintains a version number for the E2 Node Information of each E2 Node. Incremented whenever any RAN Funciton or Component config changes.  This is the version number when the E2 Node Information changed last time. |
| > Ran Function Unit |  |  |  |  |
| >>E2 Node ID | M |  | 10.1.6 |  |
| >>RAN Function List |  | 1..<maxofRANfunctionID> | Value of "maxofRANfunctionIDs" defined in 9.1.2.2 of [3]. |  |
| >>> RAN Function ID | M |  | 10.1.7 |  |
| >>> RAN Function Definition | M |  | Clause 9.2.23 of [3]. |  |
| >>> RAN Function OID | M |  | Clause 9.2.31 of [3]. |  |
| >>> Last Modified E2 Node Version | M |  | INTEGER | The Near-RT RIC platform maintains a version number for the E2 Node Information of each E2 Node. Incremented whenever any RAN Funciton or Component config changes.  This is the version number when the E2 Node Information changed last time. |

| Information Type | Information Unit |
| --- | --- |
| E2NodeList | E2 Node List Unit |
| E2NodeComponentConfig | E2 Node Component Config Unit |
| E2NodeRanFunction | Ran Function Unit |

The IE contains the summary of E2 Node Information updates sent to the xApp.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| E2 Node ID | M |  | 10.1.6 |  |
| Current E2 Node Version | M |  | INTEGER | The Near-RT RIC platform maintains the version number for E2 Node Information of each E2 Node. Incremented whenever any RAN Funciton or Component config changes. This is the current version number of E2 Node Information for the E2 Node. |
| E2 Node State | O |  | 7.3.3.28.1.13 |  |

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| E2 Node State | M |  | ENUMERATED (CONNECTED, RESET, DISCONNECTED, …) |  |

| E2 Node State | Meaning |
| --- | --- |
| CONNECTED | E2 Node has completed E2 Setup procedure.   Near-RT RIC platform has at least one validated E2NodeComponentConfig and E2NodeRanFunction record available for xApps using SDL API.   xApp may use E2 related API to request E2 Subscription and E2 Control procedures |
| RESET | E2 connection to E2 Node has been reset using E2AP Reset procedure. Near-RT RIC platform has at least one validated E2NodeComponentConfig and E2NodeRanFunction record available for xApps using SDL API. Previous E2 Subscriptions have been deleted E2 related API services not available |
| DISCONNECTED | E2 connection to E2 Node is not available xApp shall delete records for E2 Node |

##### 7.3.3.28.2  RAN Analytics Information related IEs

To construct the SDL Data Type ID IE for RAN Analytics Information,

- -	the namespace field is "ORAN";
- -	the name and version fields are the RAI Type ID and the Version defined in Table 6.1-1 of Y1TD [11], respectively.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Target Entitiy List |  | 1 | Represents the "targetEntities" attribute in clause 6.2.2.5.2.2 and 6.3.2.2.2.3.1 of Y1AP [10]. |  |
| > Target Entity Item |  | 1..<maxnoofTargetEntities> |  |  |
| >> Target Entity | M |  | TargetEntity, clause 6 of Y1TD [11] |  |
| Filter Paramters | O |  | FilterParameters, clause 6 of Y1TD [11] | Represents the "filterParameters" attribute in clause 6.2.2.5.2.2 and 6.3.2.2.2.3.1 of Y1AP [10]. |
| Expected Validity Period Relative List |  | 0..1 | Represents the "expectedValidityPeriodsRelative" attribute in clause 6.2.2.5.2.2 of Y1AP [10]. |  |
| > Expected Validity Period Relative Item |  | 1..<maxnoofValidityPeriods> |  |  |
| >> Expected Validity Period Relative | M |  | ValidityPeriodRelative, clause 6.2.2.5.2.6 of Y1AP [10] |  |
| Expected Validity Period List |  | 0..1 | Represents the "expectedValidity Periods" attribute in clause 6.3.2.2.2.3.1 of Y1AP [10]. |  |
| > Expected Validity Period Item |  | 1..<maxnoofValidityPeriods> |  |  |
| >> Expected Validity Period | M |  | ValidityPeriod, clause 6.2.2.5.2.7 of Y1AP [10] |  |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxnoofTargetEntities | Maximum number of target entities that can be carried in a target entity list. Value is 2048. |
| maxnoofValidityPeriods | Maximum number of validity periods that can be carried in a validity period list. Value is 512. |

| IE Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| RAI Report | M |  | RaiReport, clause 6.2.2.5.2.5 of Y1AP [10] | Represents a single RAI report in clause 6.2 and 6.3 of Y1AP [10]. |

| IE Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Notification Event Trigger | M |  | NotificationTriggerEvent, clause 6 of Y1TD [11] | Represents the "notificationTriggerEvent" attribute in clause 6.2.2.5.2.3 of Y1AP [10]. |

### 7.3.4 Message and Information Element Abstract Syntax

7.3.4.1	Solution 1: SCTP with Protocol Buffers

7.3.4.1.1	Usage of SCTP with Protocol Buffers

This solution uses Protocol Buffers as message encoding, and SCTP as the transport protocol.

The PDU on the SCTP connection uses the structure as defined in clause 10.1.8 where its API Payload IE serves as a container for individual API messages in clause 7.3.4.1.2 which can be SdlInformationApiPayload or XappDataSharingApiPayload.

Table 7.3.4.1.1-1 lists the SDL APIs abstract syntax included in this document.

| API Name / Contents | Clause | Version | File Name |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| SDL_Information_API | 7.3.4.1.2.1 | 2.0.0 | sdl_information_api_ver_2_0_0.proto |
| Xapp_Data_Sharing_API | 7.3.4.1.2.2 | 1.0.0 | xapp_data_sharing_api_ver_1_0_0.proto |
| SDL API common information elements | 7.3.4.1.3 | 2.0.0 | sdl_apis_common_ies_ver_2_0_0.proto |
| Near-RT RIC API common information elements | 10.2.1 | 2.0.0 | near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies_ver_2_0_0.proto |

##### 7.3.4.1.2 API Definitions

syntax = "proto3";

package ricapi.sdl_information_api.v2;

import "near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies_ver_2_0_0.proto";

import "sdl_apis_common_ies_ver_2_0_0.proto";

// top-level PDU

message SdlInformationApiPayload {

oneof procedure_type {

SdlSubscribeInformationProc sdl_subscribe_information_proc = 1;

SdlInformationFetchProc sdl_information_fetch_proc = 2;

SdlInformationPushProc sdl_information_push_proc = 3;

SdlInformationUpdateNotifyProc sdl_information_update_notify_proc = 4;

}

}

// ---------------- procedures of SDL_Information_API ----------------

message SdlSubscribeInformationProc {

oneof type_of_message {

SubscribeInformationRequest subscribe_information_request = 1;

SubscribeInformationResponse subscribe_information_response = 2;

SubscribeInformationFailure subscribe_information_failure = 3;

}

}

message SdlInformationFetchProc {

oneof type_of_message {

InformationFetchRequest information_fetch_request = 1;

InformationFetchResponse information_fetch_response = 2;

InformationFetchFailure information_fetch_failure = 3;

}

}

message SdlInformationPushProc {

oneof type_of_message {

InformationPush information_push = 1;

}

}

message SdlInformationUpdateNotifyProc {

oneof type_of_message {

InformationUpdateNotify information_update_notify = 1;

}

}

// ---------------- messages of SDL_Information_API ----------------

// -------- messages of SDL Subscribe Information procedure --------

message SubscribeInformationRequest {

optional ricapi.near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 1;

optional ricapi.sdl_apis_common_ies.v2.SdlDataTypeId sdl_data_type_id = 2;

optional ricapi.sdl_apis_common_ies.v2.DeliveryMethod delivery_method = 3;

optional ricapi.sdl_apis_common_ies.v2.SdlDataDescription sdl_data_description = 4;

optional ricapi.near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.EndpointInformation notification_destination = 5;

optional ricapi.sdl_apis_common_ies.v2.NotificationCriteria notification_criteria = 6;

}

message SubscribeInformationResponse {

optional ricapi.near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 1;

optional ricapi.sdl_apis_common_ies.v2.SubscriptionId subscription_id = 2;

}

message SubscribeInformationFailure {

optional ricapi.near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 1;

optional ricapi.sdl_apis_common_ies.v2.SubscriptionRejectCause subscription_reject_cause = 2;

optional uint32 time_to_wait = 3;

}

// -------- messages of SDL Information Fetch procedure --------

message InformationFetchRequest {

optional ricapi.near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 1;

optional ricapi.sdl_apis_common_ies.v2.SdlDataTypeId sdl_data_type_id = 2;

optional ricapi.sdl_apis_common_ies.v2.SdlDataDescription sdl_data_description = 3;

}

message InformationFetchResponse {

optional ricapi.near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 1;

optional ricapi.sdl_apis_common_ies.v2.SdlDataTypeId sdl_data_type_id = 2;

repeated SdlDataBlockItem sdl_data_block = 3;

message SdlDataBlockItem {

optional ricapi.sdl_apis_common_ies.v2.SdlDataUnit sdl_data_unit = 1;

}

}

message InformationFetchFailure {

optional ricapi.near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 1;

optional ricapi.sdl_apis_common_ies.v2.FetchFailureCause fetch_failure_cause = 2;

}

// -------- messages of SDL Information Push procedure --------

message InformationPush {

optional ricapi.near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 4;

optional ricapi.sdl_apis_common_ies.v2.SubscriptionId subscription_id = 1;

optional ricapi.sdl_apis_common_ies.v2.SdlDataTypeId sdl_data_type_id = 2;

repeated SdlDataBlockItem sdl_data_block = 3;

message SdlDataBlockItem {

optional ricapi.sdl_apis_common_ies.v2.ModificationType modification_type = 1;

optional ricapi.sdl_apis_common_ies.v2.SdlDataUnit sdl_data_unit = 2;

}

}

// -------- messages of SDL Information Update Notify procedure --------

message InformationUpdateNotify {

optional ricapi.near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 4;

optional ricapi.sdl_apis_common_ies.v2.SubscriptionId subscription_id = 1;

optional ricapi.sdl_apis_common_ies.v2.SdlDataTypeId sdl_data_type_id = 2;

repeated SdlUpdateNotifyBlockItem sdl_update_notify_block = 3;

message SdlUpdateNotifyBlockItem {

optional ricapi.sdl_apis_common_ies.v2.ModificationType modification_type = 1;

optional ricapi.sdl_apis_common_ies.v2.SdlUpdateNotifyUnit sdl_update_notify_unit = 2;

}

}

syntax = "proto3";

package ricapi.xapp_data_sharing_api.v1;

import "sdl_apis_common_ies_ver_2_0_0.proto";

import "near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies_ver_2_0_0.proto";

// top-level PDU

message XappDataSharingApiPayload {

oneof procedure_type {

XappSharedDataFetchProc xapp_shared_data_fetch_proc = 1;

XappSharedDataSubscribeProc xapp_shared_data_subscribe_proc = 2;

XappSharedDataSubscriptionDeleteProc xapp_shared_data_subscription_delete_proc = 3;

XappSharedDataPushProc xapp_shared_data_push_proc = 4;

}

}

// ---------------- procedures of Xapp_Data_Sharing_API ----------------

message XappSharedDataFetchProc {

oneof type_of_message {

XappSharedDataFetchRequest xapp_shared_data_fetch_request = 1;

XappSharedDataFetchResponse xapp_shared_data_fetch_response = 2;

XappSharedDataFetchFailure xapp_shared_data_fetch_failure = 3;

}

}

message XappSharedDataSubscribeProc {

oneof type_of_message {

XappSharedDataSubscriptionRequest xapp_shared_data_subscription_request = 1;

XappSharedDataSubscriptionResponse xapp_shared_data_subscription_response = 2;

XappSharedDataSubscriptionFailure xapp_shared_data_subscription_failure = 3;

}

}

message XappSharedDataSubscriptionDeleteProc {

oneof type_of_message {

XappSharedDataSubscriptionDeleteRequest xapp_shared_data_subscription_delete_request = 1;

XappSharedDataSubscriptionDeleteResponse xapp_shared_data_subscription_delete_response = 2;

XappSharedDataSubscriptionDeleteFailure xapp_shared_data_subscription_delete_failure = 3;

}

}

message XappSharedDataPushProc {

oneof type_of_message {

XappSharedDataPush xapp_shared_data_push = 1;

}

}

// ---------------- messages of Xapp_Data_Sharing_API ----------------

// -------- messages of Xapp Shared Data Fetch procedure --------

message XappSharedDataFetchRequest {

optional ricapi.near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 1;

optional ricapi.sdl_apis_common_ies.v2.SdlDataTypeId sdl_data_type_id = 2;

optional ricapi.sdl_apis_common_ies.v2.SdlDataDescription sdl_data_description = 3;

}

message XappSharedDataFetchResponse {

optional ricapi.near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 1;

optional ricapi.sdl_apis_common_ies.v2.SdlDataTypeId sdl_data_type_id = 2;

repeated SdlDataBlockItem sdl_data_block = 3;

message SdlDataBlockItem {

optional ricapi.sdl_apis_common_ies.v2.SdlDataUnit sdl_data_unit = 1;

}

}

message XappSharedDataFetchFailure {

optional ricapi.near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 1;

optional ricapi.sdl_apis_common_ies.v2.FetchFailureCause fetch_failure_cause = 2;

}

// -------- messages of Xapp Shared Data Subscribe procedure --------

message XappSharedDataSubscriptionRequest {

optional ricapi.near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 1;

optional ricapi.sdl_apis_common_ies.v2.SdlDataTypeId sdl_data_type_id = 2;

optional ricapi.sdl_apis_common_ies.v2.SdlDataDescription sdl_data_description = 3;

optional ricapi.sdl_apis_common_ies.v2.DeliveryMethod delivery_method = 4;

optional ricapi.near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.EndpointInformation notification_destination = 5;

optional ricapi.sdl_apis_common_ies.v2.NotificationCriteria notification_criteria = 6;

}

message XappSharedDataSubscriptionResponse {

optional ricapi.near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 1;

optional ricapi.sdl_apis_common_ies.v2.SubscriptionId subscription_id = 2;

}

message XappSharedDataSubscriptionFailure {

optional ricapi.near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 1;

optional ricapi.sdl_apis_common_ies.v2.SubscriptionRejectCause subscription_reject_cause = 2;

}

// -------- messages of Xapp Shared Data Push procedure --------

message XappSharedDataPush {

optional ricapi.sdl_apis_common_ies.v2.SubscriptionId subscription_id = 1;

optional ricapi.sdl_apis_common_ies.v2.SdlDataTypeId sdl_data_type_id = 2;

repeated SdlDataBlockItem sdl_data_block = 3;

message SdlDataBlockItem {

optional ricapi.sdl_apis_common_ies.v2.ModificationType modification_type = 1;

optional ricapi.sdl_apis_common_ies.v2.SdlDataUnit sdl_data_unit = 2;

}

}

// -------- messages of Xapp Shared Data Subscription Delete procedure --------

message XappSharedDataSubscriptionDeleteRequest {

optional ricapi.near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 1;

optional ricapi.sdl_apis_common_ies.v2.SubscriptionId subscription_id = 2;

}

message XappSharedDataSubscriptionDeleteResponse {

optional ricapi.near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 1;

}

message XappSharedDataSubscriptionDeleteFailure {

optional ricapi.near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 1;

optional ricapi.sdl_apis_common_ies.v2.SubscriptionRejectCause subscription_reject_cause = 2;

}

##### 7.3.4.1.3 Information Element Definitions

syntax = "proto3";

package ricapi.sdl_apis_common_ies.v2;

import "near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies_ver_2_0_0.proto";

// ----------------------------- Information Elements -----------------------------

// --------------A--------------

// From E2AP Clause 9.2.32

message AmfName {

optional string value = 1;

}

// --------------D--------------

enum DeliveryMethod {

DELIVERY_METHOD_UPDATE_NOTIFY = 0;

DELIVERY_METHOD_PUSH_DELTA = 1;

DELIVERY_METHOD_PUSH_FULL = 2;

}

// --------------E--------------

// From E2AP Clause 9.2.27

message E2NodeComponentConfiguration {

optional bytes e2_node_component_request_part = 1;

optional bytes e2_node_component_response_part = 2;

}

// From E2AP Clause 9.2.32

message E2NodeComponentId {

oneof e2_node_component_interface_type {

NgInterfaceType ng = 1;

XnInterfaceType xn = 2;

E1InterfaceType e1 = 3;

F1InterfaceType f1 = 4;

W1InterfaceType w1 = 5;

S1InterfaceType s1 = 6;

X2InterfaceType x2 = 7;

}

message NgInterfaceType {

optional AmfName amf_name = 1;

}

message XnInterfaceType {

optional GlobalNgRanNodeId global_ng_ran_node_id = 1;

}

message E1InterfaceType {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.GnbCuUpId gnb_cu_up_id = 1;

}

message F1InterfaceType {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.GnbDuId gnb_du_id = 1;

}

message W1InterfaceType {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.NgEnbDuId ng_enb_du_id = 1;

}

message S1InterfaceType {

optional MmeName mme_name = 1;

}

message X2InterfaceType {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.GlobalEnbId global_enb_id = 1;

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.GlobalEnGnbId global_en_gnb_id = 2;

}

}

// From E2AP Clause 9.2.26

enum E2NodeComponentType {

E2_NODE_COMPONENT_TYPE_NG = 0;

E2_NODE_COMPONENT_TYPE_XN = 1;

E2_NODE_COMPONENT_TYPE_E1 = 2;

E2_NODE_COMPONENT_TYPE_F1 = 3;

E2_NODE_COMPONENT_TYPE_W1 = 4;

E2_NODE_COMPONENT_TYPE_S1 = 5;

E2_NODE_COMPONENT_TYPE_X2 = 6;

}

enum E2NodeState {

E2_NODE_STATE_CONNECTED = 0;

E2_NODE_STATE_RESET = 1;

E2_NODE_STATE_DISCONNECTED = 2;

}

// --------------F--------------

enum FetchFailureCause {

FETCH_FAILURE_CAUSE_UNSPECIFIED = 0;

FETCH_FAILURE_CAUSE_INVALID_FILTER = 1;

FETCH_FAILURE_CAUSE_INFORMATION_TYPE_NOT_SUPPORTED = 2;

FETCH_FAILURE_CAUSE_NO_INFORMATION_PRESENT = 3;

}

enum FilterCondition {

FILTER_CONDITION_CONTAINTED_IN = 0;

FILTER_CONDITION_NOT_CONTAINTED_IN = 1;

FILTER_CONDITION_EQUALS = 2;

FILTER_CONDITION_GREATER_THAN = 3;

FILTER_CONDITION_LESS_THAN = 4;

}

message FilterConditionValue {

oneof filter_condition_value_type {

E2NodeIdList e2_node_id_list = 1;

E2NodeComponentTypeList e2_node_component_type_list = 2;

RanFunctionOidList ran_function_oid_list = 3;

}

message E2NodeIdList {

repeated E2NodeIdItem list = 1;

message E2NodeIdItem {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.GlobalE2NodeId e2_node_id = 1;

optional E2NodeState e2_node_state = 2;

}

}

message E2NodeComponentTypeList {

repeated E2NodeComponentTypeItem list = 1;

message E2NodeComponentTypeItem {

optional E2NodeComponentType e2_node_component_type = 1;

}

}

message RanFunctionOidList {

repeated RanFunctionOidItem list = 1;

message RanFunctionOidItem {

optional RanFunctionOid ran_function_oid = 1;

}

}

}

message FilterDefinition {

optional FilterType filter_type = 1;

optional FilterCondition filter_condition = 2;

optional FilterConditionValue filter_condition_value = 3;

}

enum FilterType {

FILTER_TYPE_E2_NODE_ID = 0;

FILTER_TYPE_COMPONENT_TYPE = 1;

FILTER_TYPE_SERVICE_MODEL = 2;

}

// --------------G--------------

// From E2AP Clause 9.2.32

message GlobalNgRanNodeId {

oneof ng_ran_node_choice {

near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.GlobalGnbId global_gnb_id = 1;

near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.GlobalNgEnbId global_ng_enb_id = 2;

}

}

// --------------I--------------

enum InformationType {

INFORMATION_TYPE_E2NODELIST = 0;

INFORMATION_TYPE_E2NODECOMPONENTCONFIG = 1;

INFORMATION_TYPE_E2NODERANFUNCTION = 2;

}

message InformationUnit {

oneof information_unit_type {

E2NodeListUnit e2_node_list_unit = 1;

E2NodeComponentConfigUnit e2_node_component_config_unit = 2;

RanFunctionUnit ran_function_unit = 3;

}

message E2NodeListUnit {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.GlobalE2NodeId e2_node_id = 1;

optional E2NodeState e2_node_state = 2;

}

message E2NodeComponentConfigUnit {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.GlobalE2NodeId e2_node_id = 1;

repeated E2NodeComponentConfigItem e2_node_component_config_list = 2;

message E2NodeComponentConfigItem {

optional E2NodeComponentType e2_node_component_type = 1;

optional E2NodeComponentId e2_node_component_id = 2;

optional E2NodeComponentConfiguration e2_node_component_configuration = 3;

optional uint32 last_modified_e2_node_version = 4;

}

}

message RanFunctionUnit {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.GlobalE2NodeId e2_node_id = 1;

repeated RanFunctionItem ran_function_list = 2;

message RanFunctionItem {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.RanFunctionId ran_function_id = 1;

optional RanFunctionDefinition ran_function_definition = 2;

optional RanFunctionOid ran_function_oid = 3;

optional uint32 last_modified_e2_node_version = 4;

}

}

}

// --------------M--------------

enum ModificationType {

TYPE_ADDED = 0;

TYPE_MODIFIED = 1;

TYPE_REMOVED = 2;

}

// From E2AP Clause 9.2.32

message MmeName {

optional string value = 1;

}

// --------------N--------------

message NotificationCriteria {

optional NotificationMethod notification_method = 1;

optional uint32 notification_period = 2;

optional TriggerEventDefinition trigger_event_definition = 3;

enum NotificationMethod {

NOTIFICATION_METHOD_PERIODIC = 0;

NOTIFICATION_METHOD_EVENT_TRIGGERED = 1;

}

}

message NotificationUnit {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.GlobalE2NodeId e2_node_id = 1;

optional uint32 current_e2_node_version = 2;

optional E2NodeState e2_node_state = 3;

}

// --------------R--------------

// From E2AP Clause 9.2.23

message RanFunctionDefinition {

optional bytes value = 1;

}

// From E2AP Clause 9.2.31

message RanFunctionOid {

optional string value = 1;

}

// --------------S--------------

message SdlDataDescription {

oneof data_category {

SdlDataDescriptionForE2NodeInformation sdl_data_description_for_e2_node_information = 1;

SdlDataDescriptionForRai sdl_data_description_for_rai = 2;

}

}

message SdlDataDescriptionForE2NodeInformation {

optional InformationType information_type = 1;

repeated FilterItem filter_list = 2;

message FilterItem {

optional FilterDefinition filter_definition = 1;

}

}

message SdlDataDescriptionForRai {

repeated TargetEntityItem target_entity_list = 1;

optional bytes filter_parameters = 2;

repeated ExpectedValidityPeriodRelativeItem expected_validity_period_relative_list = 3;

repeated ExpectedValidityPeriodItem expected_validity_period_list = 4;

message TargetEntityItem {

optional bytes target_entity = 1;

}

message ExpectedValidityPeriodRelativeItem {

optional bytes expected_valitity_period_relative = 1;

}

message ExpectedValidityPeriodItem {

optional bytes expected_valitity_period = 1;

}

}

message SdlDataTypeId {

optional string value = 1;

}

message SdlDataUnit {

oneof data_category {

SdlDataUnitForE2NodeInformation sdl_data_unit_for_e2_node_information = 1;

SdlDataUnitForRai sdl_data_unit_for_rai = 2;

}

}

message SdlDataUnitForE2NodeInformation {

optional InformationUnit information_unit = 1;

}

message SdlDataUnitForRai {

optional bytes rai_report = 1;

}

message SdlUpdateNotifyUnit {

oneof data_category {

SdlUpdateNofityUnitForE2NodeInformation sdl_update_notify_unit_for_e2_node_information = 1;

}

}

message SdlUpdateNofityUnitForE2NodeInformation {

optional NotificationUnit notification_unit = 1;

}

message SubscriptionId {

optional string subscription_id = 1;

}

enum SubscriptionRejectCause {

SUBSCRIPTION_REJECT_CAUSE_UNSPECIFIED = 0;

SUBSCRIPTION_REJECT_CAUSE_SDL_REACHED_CAPACITY = 1;

SUBSCRIPTION_REJECT_CAUSE_INFORMATION_TYPE_NOT_SUPPORTED = 2;

SUBSCRIPTION_REJECT_CAUSE_INVALID_FILTER = 3;

}

// --------------T--------------

message TimeToWait {

optional uint32 value = 1;

}

message TriggerEventDefinition {

oneof data_category {

TriggerEventDefinitionForE2NodeInformation trigger_event_definition_for_e2_node_information = 1;

TriggerEventDefinitionForRai trigger_event_definition_for_rai = 2;

}

}

message TriggerEventDefinitionForE2NodeInformation {

optional EnumValue notify_on_data_change = 1;

enum EnumValue {

ENUM_VALUE_TRUE = 0;

}

}

message TriggerEventDefinitionForRai {

optional bytes notification_event_trigger = 1;

}

7.3.4.2	Solution 2: gRPC with Protocol Buffers

7.3.4.2.1	Usage of gRPC with Protocol Buffers

This solution uses Protocol Buffers as message encoding, also as the Interface Definition Language (IDL) for gRPC [5].

Table 7.3.4.2.1-1 lists the mapping of enablement APIs and corresponding gRPC services.

Table 7.3.4.2.1-1: Mapping of SDL APIs and gRPC services

| API Name | gRPC service(s) |
| --- | --- |
| SDL_Information_API | Sdl_Information_API, SDL_Information_API_Callback |
| Xapp_Data_Sharing_API | Xapp_Data_Sharing_API, Xapp_Data_Sharing_API_Callback |

A procedure of an SDL API is mapped to a gRPC method.

Table 7.3.4.1.1-1 lists the SDL APIs abstract syntax included in this document.

Table 7.3.4.2.1-1: List of SDL APIs abstract syntax

| API Name / Contents | Clause | Version | File Name |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| SDL_Information_API | 7.3.4.2.2.1 | 1.0.0 | sdl_information_api_grpc_ver_1_0_0.proto |
| Xapp_Data_Sharing_API | 7.3.4.2.2.2 | 1.0.0 | xapp_data_sharing_api_grpc_ver_1_0_0.proto |
| SDL API common information elements | 7.3.4.1.3 | 2.0.0 | sdl_apis_common_ies_ver_2_0_0.proto |
| Near-RT RIC API common information elements | 10.2.1 | 2.0.0 | near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies_ver_2_0_0.proto |

7.3.4.2.2	API Definitions

7.3.4.2.2.1	SDL_Information_API

syntax = "proto3";

package ricapi.sdl_information_api_grpc.v1;

import "sdl_information_api_ver_2_0_0.proto";

// gRPC service and rpc definition

service Sdl_Information_API {

rpc SdlSubscribeInformationProc(SdlSubscribeInformationInitMsg) returns (SdlSubscribeInformationOutMsg) {};

rpc SdlInformationFetchProc(SdlInformationFetchInitMsg) returns (SdlInformationFetchOutMsg) {};

}

message SdlSubscribeInformationInitMsg {

optional ricapi.sdl_information_api.v2.SubscribeInformationRequest subscribe_information_request = 1;

}

message SdlSubscribeInformationOutMsg {

oneof type_of_message {

ricapi.sdl_information_api.v2.SubscribeInformationResponse subscribe_information_response = 1;

ricapi.sdl_information_api.v2.SubscribeInformationFailure subscribe_information_failure = 2;

}

}

message SdlInformationFetchInitMsg {

optional ricapi.sdl_information_api.v2.InformationFetchRequest information_fetch_request = 1;

}

message SdlInformationFetchOutMsg {

oneof type_of_message {

ricapi.sdl_information_api.v2.InformationFetchResponse information_fetch_response = 1;

ricapi.sdl_information_api.v2.InformationFetchFailure information_fetch_failure = 2;

}

}

service Sdl_Information_API_Callback {

rpc SdlInformationPushProc(SdlInformationPushInitMsg) returns (SdlInformationPushOutMsg) {};

rpc SdlInformationUpdateNotifyProc(SdlInformationUpdateNotifyInitMsg) returns (SdlInformationUpdateNofityNotifyInitMsg) {};

}

message SdlInformationPushInitMsg {

optional ricapi.sdl_information_api.v2.InformationPush information_push = 1;

}

message SdlInformationPushOutMsg {

}

message SdlInformationUpdateNotifyInitMsg {

optional ricapi.sdl_information_api.v2.InformationUpdateNotify information_update_notify = 1;

}

message SdlInformationUpdateNofityNotifyInitMsg {

}

7.3.4.2.2.2	Xapp_Data_Sharing_API

syntax = "proto3";

package ricapi.xapp_data_sharing_api_grpc.v1;

import "xapp_data_sharing_api_ver_1_0_0.proto";

// gRPC service and rpc definition

service Xapp_Data_Sharing_API {

rpc XappSharedDataFetchProc(XappSharedDataFetchInitMsg) returns (XappSharedDataFetchOutMsg) {};

rpc XappSharedDataSubscribeProc(XappSharedDataSubscribeInitMsg) returns (XappSharedDataSubscribeOutMsg) {};

rpc XappSharedDataSubscriptionDeleteProc(XappSharedDataSubscriptionDeleteInitMsg) returns (XappSharedDataSubscriptionDeleteOutMsg) {};

}

message XappSharedDataFetchInitMsg {

optional ricapi.xapp_data_sharing_api.v1.XappSharedDataFetchRequest xapp_shared_data_fetch_request = 1;

}

message XappSharedDataFetchOutMsg {

oneof type_of_message {

ricapi.xapp_data_sharing_api.v1.XappSharedDataFetchResponse xapp_shared_data_fetch_response = 1;

ricapi.xapp_data_sharing_api.v1.XappSharedDataFetchFailure xapp_shared_data_fetch_failure = 2;

}

}

message XappSharedDataSubscribeInitMsg {

optional ricapi.xapp_data_sharing_api.v1.XappSharedDataSubscriptionRequest xapp_shared_data_subscription_request = 1;

}

message XappSharedDataSubscribeOutMsg {

oneof type_of_message {

ricapi.xapp_data_sharing_api.v1.XappSharedDataSubscriptionResponse xapp_shared_data_subscription_response = 1;

ricapi.xapp_data_sharing_api.v1.XappSharedDataSubscriptionFailure xapp_shared_data_subscription_failure = 2;

}

}

message XappSharedDataSubscriptionDeleteInitMsg {

optional ricapi.xapp_data_sharing_api.v1.XappSharedDataSubscriptionDeleteRequest xapp_shared_data_subscription_delete_request = 1;

}

message XappSharedDataSubscriptionDeleteOutMsg {

oneof type_of_message {

ricapi.xapp_data_sharing_api.v1.XappSharedDataSubscriptionDeleteResponse xapp_shared_data_subscription_delete_response = 2;

ricapi.xapp_data_sharing_api.v1.XappSharedDataSubscriptionDeleteFailure xapp_shared_data_subscription_delete_failure = 3;

}

}

service Xapp_Data_Sharing_API_Callback {

rpc XappSharedDataPushProc(XappSharedDataPushInitMsg) returns (XappSharedDataPushOutMsg) {};

}

message XappSharedDataPushInitMsg {

optional ricapi.xapp_data_sharing_api.v1.XappSharedDataPush xapp_shared_data_push = 1;

}

message XappSharedDataPushOutMsg {

}

### 7.3.5 Message Transfer Syntax

7.3.5.1	Solution 1: SCTP with Protocol Buffers

The message transfer syntax for Solution 1 is serialized Protocol Buffers [4].

7.3.5.2	Solution 2: gRPC with Protocol Buffers

The message transfer syntax for Solution 2 is serialized Protocol Buffers [4].

# 8 Management API

## 8.1 Overview

### 8.1.1 Protocol Stack

In this version of specification, the default protocol stack for the Management APIs is shown on Figure 8.1.1-1.

Note: The security protocols are specified in [6].

Figure 8.1.1-1: Protocol stack for Management APIs

The Management APIs use gRPC [5] with Protocol Buffers [4] as the application layer serialization protocol.

### 8.1.2 List of Management APIs, procedures and messages

The Management API procedures introduced in clause 9.4 of [2] are categorized under the Management APIs. These APIs include:

These APIs are summarized in Table 8.1.2-1.

| API Name | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Mgmt_xApp_Registration_API | Near-RT RIC platform service for xApp registration |

The table 8.1.2-2 lists the API procedures for each Management API.

| API Name | API procedure | Communication type |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Mgmt_xApp_Registration_API | xApp Registration | Request/Response |

The table 8.1.2-3 lists the messages for each management API procedure.

| API Procedure | Initiated by | Initiating Message | Outcome Message |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| API Procedure | Initiated by | Initiating Message | Successful Outcome | Unsuccessful Outcome |
| xApp Registration | xApp | XAPP REGISTRATION REQUEST | XAPP REGISTRATION SUCCESS | XAPP REGISTRATION FAILURE |

## 8.2 Management API Procedures

### 8.2.1 xApp Registration Procedure

#### 8.2.1.1 General

This procedure is used by an xApp who wants to register in Near-RT RIC platform.

#### 8.2.1.2 Successful Operation

Figure 8.2.1.2-1: xApp Registration procedure, successful operation

The xApp initiates the procedure by sending an xApp Registration (Request) message to the Near-RT-RIC platform. The message contains a unique Procedure Transaction ID IE assigned by the initiating xApp, the optional xApp Description IE, and the Required APIs and Data Types IE that specifies the APIs and data types needed for normal operation of the xApp.

At reception of the xApp Registration (Request) message, the Near-RT-RIC platform shall:

- -	 Check xApp’s compatibility with the Near-RT RIC platform, using information in the Required APIs and Data Types IE.
- -	Assign an xApp ID and create the profile for the xApp.
If the registration request is successfully fulfilled, the Near-RT RIC platform shall send an xApp Registration (Success) message back to the xApp.

In the xApp Registration (Success) message, the Near-RT RIC platform shall include the associated Procedure Transaction ID IE and the xApp ID IE.

#### 8.2.1.3 Unsuccessful Operation

Figure 8.2.1.3-1: xApp Registration procedure, unsuccessful operation

If the registration request fails, the Near-RT RIC platform shall send an xApp Registration (Failure) message back to the xApp. The message shall include the associated Procedure Transaction ID IE replicated from the corresponding request and appropriate cause.

#### 8.2.1.4 Abnormal Conditions

Not applicable.

## 8.3 Elements for Management API Communication

### 8.3.1 General

### 8.3.2 Message Functional Definition and Content

#### 8.3.2.1 xAPP REGISTRATION REQUEST

This message is sent by an xApp to the Near-RT RIC platform for xApp Registration.

Direction: xApp -> Near-RT RIC platform

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 8.3.3.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 | Value assigned by the initiating xApp. | YES | Reject |
| xApp Description | O |  | 8.3.3.2 | YES | Ignore |  |
| Required APIs and Data Types | M |  | YES | Reject |  |  |
| > List of Required APIs |  | 0.. <maxnoofAPIs> | The API names and versions required by the xApp | - |  |  |
| >> API Name | M |  | 10.1.3 | - |  |  |
| >> API Version | M |  | 10.1.4 | - |  |  |
| > List of A1 Policy Types |  | 0.. <maxnoofA1PolicyTypes> | The A1 Policy Types required by the xApp | - |  |  |
| >> A1 Policy Type ID | M |  | 8.3.3.3 | - |  |  |
| > List of E2 Service Models |  | 0.. <maxnoofE2SMs> | The E2 Service Models required by the xApp | - |  |  |
| >> E2 Service Model Name | M |  | 8.3.3.4 | - |  |  |
| >> E2 Service Model Version | M |  | 8.3.3.5 | - |  |  |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxnoofAPIs | Maximum no. of APIs supported by the xApp. Value is 1024. |
| maxnoofA1PolicyTypes | Maximum no. of A1 Policy Types supported by the xApp. Value is 1024. |
| maxnoofE2SMs | Maximum no. of E2SMs supported by the xApp. Value is 1024. |

#### 8.3.2.2 xAPP REGISTRATION SUCCESS

This message is sent by the Near-RT RIC platform after the xApp’s registration request is successfully accepted.

Direction: Near-RT RIC platform -> xApp

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 8.3.3.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 | Value replicated from corresponding request. | YES | Reject |
| xApp ID | M |  | 10.1.2 | YES | Reject |  |

#### 8.3.2.3 xAPP REGISTRATION FAILURE

This message is sent by the Near-RT RIC platform after the xApp’s registration request is failed.

Direction: Near-RT RIC platform -> xApp

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 8.3.3.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 | Value replicated from corresponding request. | YES | Reject |
| Cause | M |  | 8.3.3.6 | YES | Reject |  |

#### 8.3.2.4 xAPP CONFIGURATION REQUEST

#### 8.3.2.5 xAPP CONFIGURATION RESPONSE

#### 8.3.2.6 xAPP CONFIGURATION FAILURE

### 8.3.3 Information Element Definitions

8.3.3.1	Message Type

This IE uniquely identifies the message being sent. It is mandatory for all messages.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type |  |  |  |  |
| >Procedure Type | M |  | CHOICE (xApp Registration, …) |  |
| >Type of Message | M |  | CHOICE (Request, Success, Failure, …) | Refer to Table 8.1.2-3 for applicable choices for each procedure type |

8.3.3.2	xApp Description

This IE provides generic information related to the xApp such as its name, vendor and purpose.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| xApp Description | M |  | STRING |  |

8.3.3.3	A1 Policy Type ID

Defined in 10.1.5.

8.3.3.4	E2 Service Model Name

This IE specifies the name of E2 Service Model supported by the xApp.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| E2 Service Model Name | M |  | STRING | The E2SM short name as in Table 5-1 of [8] |

8.3.3.5	E2 Service Model Version

This IE is used to indicate the version of E2 Service Model supported by the xApp.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| E2 Service Model Version | M |  | STRING |  |

8.3.3.6	Cause

This IE is used to indicate the reason for a particular event for the Management APIs.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Cause | M |  | ENUMERATED (Unspecified, API Not Supported, A1 Policy Type Not Supported, E2 Service Model Not Supported, …) |  |

### 8.3.4 Message and Information Element Abstract Syntax

#### 8.3.4.1 Solution 1: gRPC with Protocol Buffers

##### 8.3.4.1.1 Usage of gRPC with Protocol Buffers

This solution uses Protocol Buffers as message encoding, and also as the Interface Definition Language (IDL) for gRPC [5].

Table 8.3.4.1.1-1 lists the mapping of management APIs and corresponding gRPC services.

| API Name | gRPC service(s) |
| --- | --- |
| Mgmt_Xapp_Registration_API |  |

A procedure of an Management API is mapped to a gRPC method.

Table 8.3.4.1.1-2 lists the Management APIs abstract syntax included in this document.

| API Name / Contents | Clause | Version | File Name |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Mgmt_Xapp_Registration_API | 8.3.4.1.2.1 | 1.0.0 | mgmt_xapp_registration_api_ver_1_0_0.proto |
| Management API common information elements | 8.3.4.1.3 | 1.0.0 | mgmt_apis_common_ies_ver_1_0_0.proto |
| Near-RT RIC API common information elements | 10.2.1 | 2.0.0 | near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies_ver_2_0_0.proto |

##### 8.3.4.1.2 API Definitions

syntax = "proto3";

package ricapi.mgmt_xapp_registration_api.v1;

import "near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies_ver_2_0_0.proto";

import "mgmt_apis_common_ies_ver_1_0_0.proto";

// gRPC service and rpc definition

service mgmt_Xapp_Registration_API {

rpc XappRegistrationProc(XappRegistrationInitMsg) returns (XappRegistrationOutMsg) {};

}

message XappRegistrationInitMsg {

optional XappRegistrationRequest xapp_registration_request = 1;

}

message XappRegistrationOutMsg {

oneof type_of_message {

XappRegistrationSuccess xapp_registration_success = 1;

XappRegistrationFailure xapp_registration_failure = 2;

}

}

// ---------------- messages of Mgmt_Xapp_Registration_API ----------------

// -------- messages of xApp Registration procedure --------

message XappRegistrationRequest {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 1;

optional mgmt_apis_common_ies.v1.XappDescription xapp_description = 2;

optional RequiredApisAndDataTypes required_apis_and_data_types = 3;

message RequiredApisAndDataTypes {

repeated RequiredApiItem list_of_required_apis = 1;

repeated A1PolicyTypeItem list_of_a1_policy_types = 2;

repeated E2ServiceModelItem list_of_e2_service_models = 3;

message RequiredApiItem {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ApiName api_name = 1;

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ApiVersion api_version = 2;

}

message A1PolicyTypeItem {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.A1PolicyTypeId a1_policy_type_id = 1;

}

message E2ServiceModelItem {

optional mgmt_apis_common_ies.v1.E2ServiceModelName e2_service_model_name = 1;

optional mgmt_apis_common_ies.v1.E2ServiceModelVersion e2_service_model_version = 2;

}

}

}

message XappRegistrationSuccess {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 1;

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.XappId xapp_id = 2;

}

message XappRegistrationFailure {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 1;

optional mgmt_apis_common_ies.v1.Cause cause = 2;

}

##### 8.3.4.1.3 Information Element Definitions

syntax = "proto3";

package ricapi.mgmt_apis_common_ies.v1;

import "near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies_ver_2_0_0.proto";

// ----------------------------- Information Elements -----------------------------

// --------------C--------------

enum Cause {

UNSPECIFIED = 0;

API_NOT_SUPPORTED = 1;

A1_POLICY_TYPE_NOT_SUPPORTED = 2;

E2_SERVICE_MODEL_NOT_SUPPORTED = 3;

}

// --------------E--------------

message E2ServiceModelName {

optional string value = 1;

}

message E2ServiceModelVersion {

optional string value = 1;

}

// --------------X--------------

message XappDescription {

optional string value = 1;

}

### 8.3.5 Message Transfer Syntax

#### 8.3.5.1 Solution 1: gRPC with Protocol Buffers

The message transfer syntax for Solution 1 is serialized Protocol Buffers [4].

# 9 Enablement API

## 9.1 Overview

### 9.1.1 Protocol Stack

In this version of specification, the default protocol stack for the Enablement APIs is shown on Figure 9.1.1-1.

Note: The security protocols are specified in [6].

Figure 9.1.1-1: Protocol stack for Enablement APIs

The Enablement APIs use gRPC [5] with Protocol Buffers [4] as the application layer serialization protocol.

### 9.1.2 List of Enablement APIs, procedures and messages

The enablement API procedures introduced in clause 9.5 of [2] are categorized under the enablement APIs. These APIs include:

These APIs are summarized in Table 9.1.2-1.

| API Name | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Enabl_Discovery_API | Near-RT RIC platform service for API discovery |
| Enabl_Events_API | Near-RT RIC platform service for API related events |
| Enabl_Registration_API | Near-RT RIC platform service for API registration |

The table 9.1.2-2 lists the API procedures for each enablement API.

| API Name | API procedure | Communication type |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Enabl_Discovery_API | API Discovery | Request/Response |
| Enabl_Events_API | API Event Subcription | Request/Response |
| Enabl_Events_API | API Event Subcription Delete | Request/Response |
| Enabl_Events_API | API Event Notification | Notify |
| Enabl_Registration_API | API Registration | Request/Response |
| Enabl_Registration_API | API Registration Update | Request/Response |
| Enabl_Registration_API | API Deregistration | Request/Response |

The table 9.1.2-3 lists the messages for each enablement API procedure.

| API Procedure | Initiated by | Initiating Message | Outcome Message |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| API Procedure | Initiated by | Initiating Message | Successful Outcome | Unsuccessful Outcome |
| API Discovery | xApp | API DISCOVERY REQUEST | API DISCOVERY RESPONSE | API DISCOVERY FAILURE |
| API Event Subscription | xApp | API Event Subscription REQUEST | API Event Subscription RESPONSE | API Event Subscription FAILURE |
| API Event Subscription Delete | xApp | API Event Subscription DELETE REQUEST | API Event Subscription DELETE RESPONSE | API Event Subscription DELETE FAILURE |
| API Event Notification | Near-RT RIC platform | API Event NOTIFICATION | API Event NOTIFICATION ACK | - |
| API Registration | xApp | API REGISTRATION REQUEST | api REGISTRATION RESPONSE | API REGISTRATION FAILURE |
| API Registration Update | xApp | API REGISTRATION UPDATE REQUEST | API REGISTRATION UPDATE RESPONSE | API REGISTRATION UPDATE FAILURE |
| API Deregistration | xApp | API DEREGISTRATION REQUEST | API DEREGISTRATION RESPONSE | API DEREGISTRATION FAILURE |

## 9.2 Enablement API Procedures

### 9.2.1 Enabl_Discovery_API Procedures

#### 9.2.1.1 General

The Enabl_Discovery_API allows an xApp to discover service APIs available at the Near-RT RIC platform.

The API procedure defined for Enabl_Discovery_API is shown in table 9.2.1.1-1.

| API Procedure | Description | Initiated by |
| --- | --- | --- |
| API Discovery | This procedure is used by an xApp to discover Near-RT RIC APIs available at the Near-RT RIC platform. | xApp |

#### 9.2.1.2 API Discovery procedure

##### 9.2.1.2.1 Successful Operation

Figure 9.2.1.2.1-1: API Discovery procedure, successful operation

To discover Near-RT RIC APIs available at the API Enablement function, the xApp shall send an API DISCOVERY REQUEST message with the xApp ID IE and the Query Parameters IE to the Near-RT RIC platform.

Upon receiving the message, the Near-RT RIC platform shall:

- 1.	verify the identity of the xApp and check if it is authorized to discover the Near-RT RIC APIs;
- 2.	if the xApp is authorized to discover the Near-RT RIC APIs, the Near-RT RIC platform shall:

##### 9.2.1.2.2  Unsuccessful Operation

Figure 9.2.1.2.2-1: API Discovery procedure, unsuccessful operation

If the Near-RT RIC platform rejects the request it shall respond with the API DISCOVERY FAILURE message with a proper cause. If the message contains the Time to Wait IE the xApp shall wait at least the indicated time before reinitiating the request to the Near-RT RIC platform.

##### 9.2.1.2.3 Abnormal Conditions

Not applicable.

### 9.2.2 Enabl_Events_API Procedures

#### 9.2.2.1 General

The Enabl_Events_API allows an xApp to subscribe to and unsubscribe from events related to Near-RT RIC APIs and to receive notifications of the events.

Such events includes:

The API procedures defined for the Enabl_Events_API are shown in table 9.2.2.1-1.

| API Procedure | Description | Initiated by |
| --- | --- | --- |
| API Event Subscription | This procedure is used by xApp to subscribe for receiving Near-RT RIC API related events. | xApp |
| API Event Subscription Delete | This procedure is used by xApp to unsubscribe from receiving Near-RT RIC API related events. | xApp |
| API Event Notification | This procedure is used by Near-RT RIC to send a notification of Near-RT RIC API related event to an xApp. | Near-RT RIC platform |

#### 9.2.2.2 API Event Subscription procedure

##### 9.2.2.2.1 Successful Operation

Figure 9.2.2.2.1-1: API Event Subscription procedure, successful operation

To subscribe to Near-RT RIC API related events, the xApp shall send an API EVENT SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST message to the Near-RT RIC platform. The message shall include the xApp ID IE, the List of Events IE, the Event Notification Requirements IE and the Notification Destination IE.

The xApp may also include additional event filter(s) in the List of Event Filters IE. Such event filters include:

- -	API ID(s) in the API ID Filter IE, if the event type is NEAR_RT_RIC_API_AVAILABLE, NEAR_RT_RIC_API_UNAVAILABLE or NEAR_RT_RIC_API_UPDATE;
Upon receiving the message, the API Enablement function shall:

- 1.	verify the identity of the xApp and check if the xApp is authorized to subscribe to the Near-RT RIC API related events specified in the request message;
- 2.	if the xApp is authorized to subscribe to the Near-RT RIC API related events, the Near-RT RIC platform shall prepare necessary resource for the subscription and associated notifications, according to the contents in the List of Events IE and the Event Notification Requirements IE, and send an API EVENT SUBSCRIPTION RESPONSE message back to the xApp. The response message shall include the assigned subscription ID in the Subscription ID IE.

##### 9.2.2.2.2 Unsuccessful Operation

Figure 9.2.2.2.2-1: API Event Subscription procedure, unsuccessful operation

If the Near-RT RIC platform rejects the request it shall respond with the API EVENT SUBSCRIPTION FAILURE message with proper cause. If the message contains Time to Wait IE the xApp shall wait at least the indicated time before reinitiating the request to the Near-RT RIC platform.

##### 9.2.2.2.3 Abnormal conditions

If the Near-RT RIC platform receives an API EVENT SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST message containing Event Type  IE that is not supported by the Near-RT RIC platform, or the optional filter definition is invalid, the Near-RT RIC platform shall send the API EVENT SUBSCRIPTION FAILURE message to the xApp with an appropriate cause value.

#### 9.2.2.3 API Event Subscription Delete procedure

##### 9.2.2.3.1 Successful Operation

Figure 9.2.2.3.1-1: API Event Subscription Delete procedure, successful operation

To unsubscribe from Near-RT RIC API related events, the xApp shall send an API EVENT SUBSCRIPTION DELETE REQUEST message to the Near-RT RIC platform with the xApp ID IE and the Subscription ID IE.

Upon receiving the message, the Near-RT RIC platform shall:

- 1.	verify the identity of the xApp and check if the xApp is authorized to unsubscribe from the Near-RT RIC API related events associated with the subscription ID; and
- 2.	if the xApp is authorized to unsubscribe from the Near-RT RIC API related events, the Near-RT RIC platform shall delete the resource for the subscription and reply API EVENT SUBSCRIPTION DELETE RESPONSE to the xApp.

##### 9.2.2.3.2 Unsuccessful Operation

Figure 9.2.2.3.2-1: API Event Subscription Delete procedure, unsuccessful operation

If the Near-RT RIC platform rejects the request it shall respond with the API EVENT SUBSCRIPTION DELETE FAILURE message with proper cause. If the message contains Time To Wait IE the xApp shall wait at least the indicated time before reinitiating the request to the Near-RT RIC platform.

##### 9.2.2.3.3 Abnormal conditions

Not applicable.

#### 9.2.2.4 API Event Notification procedure

##### 9.2.2.4.1 Successful Operation

Figure 9.2.2.4.1-1: API Event Notification procedure, successful operation

To notify a Near-RT RIC API related event, the Near-RT RIC platform shall send an API EVENT NOTIFICATION  message using the Notification Destination IE received in the API Event Subscription procedure.

The Near-RT RIC platform may include details of the event in the Event Detail IE. Such details include:

- -	if the event type is Near-RT_RIC_API_AVAILABLE or Near-RT_RIC_API_UNAVAILABLE, the API IDs in the List of API IDs IE;
- -	if the event is Near-RT_RIC_API_UPDATE, the updated API information in the List of API Information IE;
Upon receiving the message, the xApp may reply an API EVENT NOTIFICATION ACK message.

##### 9.2.2.4.2 Unsuccessful Operation

Not applicable.

##### 9.2.2.4.3 Abnormal conditions

Not applicable.

9.2.3	Enabl_Registration_API Procedures

9.2.3.1	General

The Enabl_Registration_API allows an xApp to register its service APIs with the Near-RT RIC platform.

The API procedure defined for Enabl_Registration_API is shown in table 9.2.3.1-1.

Table 9.2.3.1-1: Procedure of the Enabl_Discovery_API

| API Procedure | Description | Initiated by |
| --- | --- | --- |
| API Registration | This procedure is used by an xApp to register its Near-RT RIC APIs. | xApp |
| API Registration Update | This procedure is used by an xApp to update its registered Near-RT RIC APIs. | xApp |
| API Deregistration | This procedure is used by an xApp to deregiter its registered Near-RT RIC APIs. | xApp |

9.2.3.2	API Registration procedure

9.2.3.2.1	Successful Operation

Figure 9.2.3.2.1-1: API Registration procedure, successful operation

To register Near-RT RIC APIs with the Near-RT RIC platform, the xApp shall send an API REGISTRATION REQUEST message. The message shall include:

-	the List of API Information to Register IE, which contain the API information of the Near-RT RIC APIs to be registered.

Upon receiving the message, the Near-RT RIC platform shall verify the authorization of the xApp, assign an API ID for each successfully registered API, and store the associated API information. The Near-RT RIC platform shall reply with an API REGISTRATION RESPONSE message. The message shall include:

-	the List of API Information Successfully Registered IE, which contains the API information of the successfully registered APIs;

-	the List of API Information Failed To Register IE if any API is not successfully registered, which contains the corresponding API information and cause.

9.2.3.2.2	Unsuccessful Operation

Figure 9.2.3.2.2-1: API Registration procedure, unsuccessful operation

If the Near-RT RIC platform rejects the request it shall respond with the API REGISTRATION FAILURE message. The message shall include the List of API Information Failed To Register IE, which contains the corresponding API information and cause.

9.2.3.2.3	Abnormal Conditions

Not applicable.

9.2.3.3	API Registration Update procedure

9.2.3.3.1	Successful Operation

Figure 9.2.3.3.1-1: API Registration Update procedure, successful operation

To update its Near-RT RIC APIs that have been registered at the Near-RT RIC platform, the xApp shall send an API REGISTRATION UPDATE REQUEST message. The message shall include:

-	the List of API Information to Update IE, which contain the API information of the Near-RT RIC APIs to be updated.

Upon receiving the message, the Near-RT RIC platform shall verify the authorization of the xApp, and update the stored API information with the new API information associated with the same API ID. The Near-RT RIC platform shall reply with an API REGISTRATION UPDATE RESPONSE message. The message shall include:

-	the List of API IDs Successfully Updated IE, which contains the API IDs of the successfully updated APIs;

-	the List of API IDs Failed To Update IE if any API is not successfully updated, which contains the corresponding API ID and cause.

9.2.3.3.2	Unsuccessful Operation

Figure 9.2.3.3.2-1: API Registration Update procedure, unsuccessful operation

If the Near-RT RIC platform rejects the request it shall respond with the API REGISTRATION UPDATE FAILURE message. The message shall include the List of API IDs Failed To Update IE, which contains the API IDs that are not updated and the corresponding cause.

9.2.3.3.3	Abnormal Conditions

Not applicable.

9.2.3.4	API Deregistration procedure

9.2.3.4.1	Successful Operation

Figure 9.2.3.4.1-1: API Deregistration procedure, successful operation

To deregister its Near-RT RIC APIs from the Near-RT RIC platform, the xApp shall send an API DEREGISTRATION REQUEST message. The message shall include the List of API IDs To Deregister IE which indicates the API IDs of the APIs to be deregistered.

Upon receiving the message, the Near-RT RIC platform shall verify the authorization of the xApp, and delete the stored API information associated with the API IDs in the request. The Near-RT RIC platform shall reply with an API DEREGISTRATION RESPONSE message. The message shall include:

-	the List of API IDs Successfully Deregistered IE, which contains the API IDs of the successfully deregistered APIs;

-	the List of API IDs Failed To Deregister IE if any API is not successfully deregistered, which contains the corresponding API IDs and cause.

9.2.3.4.2	Unsuccessful Operation

Figure 9.2.3.4.2-1: API Deregistration procedure, unsuccessful operation

If the Near-RT RIC platform rejects the request it shall respond with the API DEREGISTRATION FAILURE message. The message shall include the List of API IDs Failed To Deregister IE, which contains the API IDs that are not deregistered and the corresponding cause.

9.2.3.4.3	Abnormal Conditions

Not applicable.

## 9.3 Elements for Enablement API Communication

### 9.3.1 General

### 9.3.2 Message Functional Definition and Content

#### 9.3.2.1 API DISCOVERY REQUEST

This message is sent by an xApp to the Near-RT RIC platform to discover the available Near-RT RIC APIs.

Direction: xApp -> Near-RT RIC platform

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.3.3.1 |  |  |  |
| xApp ID | M |  | 10.1.2 |  |  |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 |  |  |  |
| Query Parameters |  | 0..1 |  |  |  |  |
| >API Name | O |  | 9.3.3.6 |  |  |  |
| >API Version | O |  | 9.3.3.7 |  |  |  |
| >Protocol | O |  | 9.3.3.8 |  |  |  |
| >Data Format | O |  | 9.3.3.9 |  |  |  |
| >API Category | O |  | 9.3.3.10 |  |  |  |

#### 9.3.2.2 API DISCOVERY RESPONSE

This message is sent by Near-RT RIC platform to the xApp to carry the information of discovered Near-RT RIC APIs.

Direction: Near-RT RIC platform -> xApp

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.3.3.1 |  |  |  |
| xApp ID | M |  | 10.1.2 |  |  |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 |  |  |  |
| List of API Information |  | 0.. <maxnoofAPIInformation> | Description of the Near-RT RIC APIs as published by the provider(s). |  |  |  |
| >API Information | M |  | 9.3.3.2 |  |  |  |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxnoofAPIInformation | Maximum no. of API information items supported in an API list. Value is 1024. |

#### 9.3.2.3 API DISCOVERY FAILURE

This message is sent by Near-RT RIC platform to the xApp for the case of failure of the discovery of the available near-RT RIC APIs.

Direction: Near-RT RIC platform -> xApp

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.3.3.1 |  |  |  |
| xApp ID | M |  | 10.1.2 |  |  |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 |  |  |  |
| Cause | M |  | 9.3.3.4 |  |  |  |
| Time to Wait | O |  | 9.3.3.5 |  |  |  |

#### 9.3.2.4 API EVENT SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST

This message is sent by an xApp to the Near-RT RIC platform to subscribe for events related to Near-RT RIC APIs.

Direction: xApp -> Near-RT RIC platform

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.3.3.1 |  |  |  |
| xApp ID | M |  | 10.1.2 |  |  |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 |  |  |  |
| List of Events |  | 1.. <maxnoofAPIEventFilter> |  |  |  |  |
| >Event Type | M |  | 9.3.3.13 |  |  |  |
| >API ID Filter |  | 0.. <maxnoofAPIIDFiliters> | API identifiers that the event subscriber wants to know in the interested event. |  |  |  |
| >>API ID | M |  | 9.3.3.11 |  |  |  |
| Event Notification Requirements |  | 1 | Represents the reporting requirements of the event subscription. |  |  |  |
| >Notification Method | M |  | ENUMERATED (On Event, Periodic, ...) |  |  |  |
| >Notification Period | O |  | INTEGER (1.. 300, ...) | The duration between notifications expressed in unit of second. Shall be present when the Notification Method IE is set to " Periodic". |  |  |
| Notification Destination | M |  | 10.1.9 |  |  |  |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxnoofAPIEventFilter | Maximum no. of API event filters supported in the list. Value is 64. |
| maxnoofAPIIDFiliters | Maximum no. of API ID filters supported in the list. Value is 1024. |

#### 9.3.2.5 API EVENT SUBSCRIPTION RESPONSE

This message is sent by Near-RT RIC platform to the xApp as successful response to API event subscription request.

Direction: Near-RT RIC platform -> xApp

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.3.3.1 |  |  |  |
| xApp ID | M |  | 10.1.2 |  |  |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 |  |  |  |
| Subscription ID | M |  | 9.3.3.3 |  |  |  |

#### 9.3.2.6 API EVENT SUBSCRIPTION FAILURE

This message is sent by Near-RT RIC platform to the xApp for the case of failure of the API event subscription request.

Direction: Near-RT RIC platform -> xApp

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.3.3.1 |  |  |  |
| xApp ID | M |  | 10.1.2 |  |  |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 |  |  |  |
| Cause | M |  | 9.3.3.4 |  |  |  |
| Time to Wait | O |  | 9.3.3.5 |  |  |  |

#### 9.3.2.7 API EVENT SUBSCRIPTION DELETE REQUEST

This message is sent by an xApp to the Near-RT RIC platform to unsubscribe for events related to Near-RT RIC APIs.

Direction: xApp -> Near-RT RIC platform

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.3.3.1 |  |  |  |
| xApp ID | M |  | 10.1.2 |  |  |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 |  |  |  |
| Subscription ID | M |  | 9.3.3.3 |  |  |  |

#### 9.3.2.8 API EVENT SUBSCRIPTION DELETE RESPONSE

This message is sent by Near-RT RIC platform to the xApp as successful response to API event subscription delete request.

Direction: Near-RT RIC platform -> xApp

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.3.3.1 |  |  |  |
| xApp ID | M |  | 10.1.2 |  |  |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 |  |  |  |
| Subscription ID | M |  | 9.3.3.3 |  |  |  |

#### 9.3.2.9 API EVENT SUBSCRIPTION DELETE FAILURE

This message is sent by Near-RT RIC platform to the xApp for the case of failure of the API event subscription delete request.

Direction: Near-RT RIC platform -> xApp

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.3.3.1 |  |  |  |
| xApp ID | M |  | 10.1.2 |  |  |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 |  |  |  |
| Cause | M |  | 9.3.3.4 |  |  |  |
| Time to Wait | O |  | 9.3.3.5 |  |  |  |

#### 9.3.2.10 API EVENT NOTIFICATION

This message is sent to a subscriber xApp from the Near-RT RIC platform to notify on an API event (based on subscription).

Direction: Near-RT RIC platform -> xApp

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.3.3.1 |  |  |  |
| Subscription ID | M |  | 9.3.3.4 |  |  |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 |  |  |  |
| Event Type | M |  | 9.3.3.13 |  |  |  |
| Event Detail |  | 0.. 1 |  |  |  |  |
| >List of API IDs |  | 0.. <maxnoofAPIIDs> | The API IDs which are available/unavailable in the relevant event. |  |  |  |
| >>API ID | M |  | 9.3.3.11 |  |  |  |
| >List of API Information |  | 0.. <maxnoofAPIInformation> | Description of the Near-RT RIC APIs which are to be updated. |  |  |  |
| >>API Information | M |  | 9.3.3.2 |  |  |  |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxnoofAPIIDs | Maximum no. of API IDs supported in an API list. Value is 1024. |
| maxnoofAPIInformation | Maximum no. of API information items supported in an API list. Value is 1024. |

#### 9.3.2.11 API EVENT NOTIFICATION ACK

This message is optionally sent by the xApp to Near-RT RIC platform as acknowledgement to an API event notification.

Direction: xApp -> Near-RT RIC platform

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.3.3.1 |  |  |  |
| Subscription ID | M |  | 9.3.3.3 |  |  |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 |  |  |  |

9.3.2.12	API REGISTRATION REQUEST

This message is sent by an xApp to the Near-RT RIC platform to register its Near-RT RIC APIs.

Direction: xApp -> Near-RT RIC platform

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.3.3.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| List of API Information To Register |  | 1..<maxnoofAPIInformation> | YES | Reject |  |  |
| > API Information | M |  | 9.3.3.2 | - |  |  |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxnoofAPIInformation | Maximum no. of API information items supported in an API list. Value is 1024. |

9.3.2.13	API REGISTRATION RESPONSE

This message is sent by Near-RT RIC platform to the xApp to indicate success of the registration of Near-RT RIC APIs.

Direction: Near-RT RIC platform -> xApp

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.3.3.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| List of API Information Successfully Registered |  | 1..<maxnoofAPIInformation> | The list of successfully registered APIs | YES | Reject |  |
| >API Information | M |  | 9.3.3.2 | - |  |  |
| List of API Information Failed To Register |  | 0..<maxnoofAPIInformation> | The list of APIs that are not successfully registered | YES | Reject |  |
| >API Information | M |  | 9.3.3.2 | - |  |  |
| >Cause | M |  | 9.3.3.4 | - |  |  |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxnoofAPIInformation | Maximum no. of API information items supported in an API list. Value is 1024. |

9.3.2.14	API REGISTRATION FAILURE

This message is sent by Near-RT RIC platform to the xApp to indicate failure of the registration of Near-RT RIC APIs.

Direction: Near-RT RIC platform -> xApp

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.3.3.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| List of API Information Failed To Register |  | 1..<maxnoofAPIInformation> | The list of APIs that are not successfully registered. | YES | Reject |  |
| > API Information | M |  | 9.3.3.2 | - |  |  |
| > Cause | M |  | 9.3.3.4 | - |  |  |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxnoofAPIInformation | Maximum no. of API information items supported in an API list. Value is 1024. |

9.3.2.15	API REGISTRATION UPDATE REQUEST

This message is sent by an xApp to the Near-RT RIC platform to update its registered Near-RT RIC APIs.

Direction: xApp -> Near-RT RIC platform

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.3.3.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| List of API Information To Update |  | 1..<maxnoofAPIInformation> | YES | Reject |  |  |
| > API Information | M |  | 9.3.3.2 | - |  |  |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxnoofAPIInformation | Maximum no. of API information items supported in an API list. Value is 1024. |

9.3.2.16	API REGISTRATION UPDATE RESPONSE

This message is sent by Near-RT RIC platform to the xApp to indicate success of the registration of Near-RT RIC APIs.

Direction: Near-RT RIC platform -> xApp

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.3.3.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| List of API IDs Successfully Updated |  | 1..<maxnoofAPIIDs> | The list of successfully updated APIs | YES | Reject |  |
| >API ID | M |  | 9.3.3.11 | - |  |  |
| List of API IDs Failed To Update |  | 0..<maxnoofAPIIDs> | The list of APIs that are not successfully updated. | YES | Reject |  |
| >API ID | M |  | 9.3.3.11 | - |  |  |
| >Cause | M |  | 9.3.3.4 | - |  |  |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxnoofAPIIDs | Maximum no. of API IDs supported in an API list. Value is 1024. |

9.3.2.17	API REGISTRATION UPDATE FAILURE

This message is sent by Near-RT RIC platform to the xApp to indicate failure of the registration of Near-RT RIC APIs.

Direction: Near-RT RIC platform -> xApp

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.3.3.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| List of API IDs Failed to Update |  | 1..<maxnoofAPIIDs> | The list of APIs that are not successfully updated. | YES | Reject |  |
| > API ID | M |  | 9.3.3.11 | - |  |  |
| > Cause | M |  | 9.3.3.4 | - |  |  |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxnoofAPIIDs | Maximum no. of API IDs supported in an API list. Value is 1024. |

9.3.2.18	API DEREGISTRATION REQUEST

This message is sent by an xApp to the Near-RT RIC platform to deregister its Near-RT RIC APIs.

Direction: xApp -> Near-RT RIC platform

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.3.3.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| List of API IDs To Deregister |  | 1..<maxnoofAPIIDs> | YES | Reject |  |  |
| > API ID | M |  | 9.3.3.11 | - |  |  |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxnoofAPIIDs | Maximum no. of API IDs supported in an API list. Value is 1024. |

9.3.2.19	API DEREGISTRATION RESPONSE

This message is sent by Near-RT RIC platform to the xApp to indicate success of the deregistration of Near-RT RIC APIs.

Direction: Near-RT RIC platform -> xApp

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.3.3.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| List of API IDs Successfully Deregistered |  | 1..<maxnoofAPIIDs> | The list of successfully deregistered APIs | YES | Reject |  |
| >API ID | M |  | 9.3.3.11 | - |  |  |
| List of API IDs Failed To Deregister |  | 0..<maxnoofAPIIDs> | The list of APIs that are not successfully deregistered | YES | Reject |  |
| >API ID | M |  | 9.3.3.11 | - |  |  |
| >Cause | M |  | 9.3.3.4 | - |  |  |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxnoofAPIIDs | Maximum no. of API IDs supported in an API list. Value is 1024. |

9.3.2.20	API DEREGISTRATION FAILURE

This message is sent by Near-RT RIC platform to the xApp to indicate failure of the deregistration of Near-RT RIC APIs.

Direction: Near-RT RIC platform -> xApp

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.3.3.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| Procedure Transaction ID | M |  | 10.1.1 | YES | Reject |  |
| List of API IDs Failed To Deregister |  | 1..<maxnoofAPIInformation> | The list of APIs that are not successfully deregistered. | YES | Reject |  |
| > API ID | M |  | 9.3.3.11 | - |  |  |
| > Cause | M |  | 9.3.3.4 | - |  |  |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxnoofAPIIDs | Maximum no. of API IDs supported in an API list. Value is 1024. |

### 9.3.3 Information Element Definitions

#### 9.3.3.1 Message Type

This IE identifies the message being sent. It is mandatory for all messages.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE Type and Reference | Semantics Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type |  |  |  |  |
| >Procedure Type | M |  | CHOICE (API Discovery, API Event Subscription, API Event Subscription Delete, API Event Notification, API Registration, API Registration Update, API Deregistration, …) |  |
| >Type of Message | M |  | CHOICE (Request, Response, Failure, …) | Refer to Table 9.1.2-3 for applicable choices for each procedure type |

#### 9.3.3.2 API Information

This IE indicates the information of a Near-RT RIC API.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| API Name | M |  | 9.3.3.6 |  |
| API ID | C |  | 9.3.3.11 | Assigned by the Near-RT RIC platform. Shall be present when the API Information is associated with a registered API, or used to update a registered API. |
| API Category | M |  | 9.3.3.10 |  |
| Description | O |  | STRING | Text description of the API |
| List of API Profiles |  | 1.. <maxnoofAPIProfiles> |  |  |
| >API Version | M |  | 9.3.3.7 |  |
| >Protocol | O |  | 9.3.3.8 |  |
| >Data Format | O |  | 9.3.3.9 |  |
| >Endpoint Information | O |  | 10.1.9 |  |
| >List of Supported Data Types |  | 0..<maxnoofSupportedDataTypes> | Shall be present for SDL APIs. |  |
| >> Data Type ID | M |  | STRING | For the API information of SDL APIs, this IE is populated with the SDL Data Type ID specified in clause 7.3.3.21. |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxnoofSupportedDataTypes | Maximum no. of supported data types in an API profile. Value is 1024. |

#### 9.3.3.3 Subscription ID

The IE uniquely identifies a subscription to API-related event(s).

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Subscription ID | M |  | STRING | Identifier of the subscription resource to which the notification is related |

#### 9.3.3.4 Cause

This IE is used to indicate the reason for a particular event for the Enablement APIs.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Cause | M |  | ENUMERATED (Unspecified, System busy, Duplicate API Information, Unknown API ID, Invalid Data Type, Unknown Subscription ID,...) |  |

The meaning of the different cause values is described in the following table.

| Cause value | Meaning |
| --- | --- |
| Unspecified | Sent when none of the below cause values applies. |
| System busy | The system cannot process the request due to temporary overload. |
| Duplicate API Information | The same API information has been registered. |
| Unknown API ID | The API ID is unknown. |
| Invalid Data Type | The supported data type in the API information is invalid. |
| Unknown Subscription ID | The Subscription ID for API event is unknown. |

#### 9.3.3.5 Time to Wait

This IE specifies the time that xApp shall wait before reinitiating a request.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Time to Wait | M |  | INTEGER (1.. 300, ...) | Unit in second |

#### 9.3.3.6 API Name

Defined in 10.1.3.

#### 9.3.3.7 API Version

Defined in 10.1.4.

#### 9.3.3.8 Protocol

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Protocol | M |  | ENUMERATED (gRPC, SCTP, HTTP REST, …) | Protocol used by the Near-RT RIC API |

#### 9.3.3.9 Data Format

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Data Format | M |  | ENUMERATED (Proto3, JSON, ASN.1, …) | Data format used by the Near-RT RIC API |

#### 9.3.3.10 API Category

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| API Category | M |  | ENUMERATED (E2 related APIs, SDL APIs, A1 related APIs, …) | The Near-RT RIC API category to which the API belongs |

#### 9.3.3.11 API ID

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| API ID | M |  | STRING | API identifier assigned by the Near-RT RIC platform to the published Near-RT RIC API |

#### 9.3.3.12 Void

#### 9.3.3.13 Event Type

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Event Type | M |  | ENUMERATED (NEAR_RT_RIC_API_AVAILABLE, NEAR_RT_RIC_API_UNAVAILABLE, NEAR_RT_RIC_API_API_UPDATE, ...) |  |

| value | Description |
| --- | --- |
| NEAR_RT_RIC_API_AVAILABLE | Events related to the availability of APIs after the APIs are published. |
| NEAR_RT_RIC_API_UNAVAILABLE | Events related to the unavailability of APIs after the APIs are unpublished. |
| NEAR_RT_RIC_API_API_UPDATE | Events related to change in API information |

### 9.3.4 Message and Information Element Abstract Syntax

#### 9.3.4.1 Solution 1: gRPC with Protocol Buffers

##### 9.3.4.1.1 Usage of gRPC with Protocol Buffers

This solution uses Protocol Buffers as message encoding, and also as the Interface Definition Language (IDL) for gRPC [5].

Table 9.3.4.1.1-1 lists the mapping of enablement APIs and corresponding gRPC services.

| API Name | gRPC service(s) |
| --- | --- |
| Enabl_Discovery_API |  |
| Enabl_Events_API | Enabl_Events_API, Enabl_Events_API_Notification |
| Enabl_Registration_API |  |

A procedure of an Enablement API is mapped to a gRPC method.

Table 9.3.4.1.1-2 lists the Enablement APIs abstract syntax included in this document.

| API Name / Contents | Clause | Version | File Name |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Enabl_Discovery_API | 9.3.4.1.2.1 | 2.0.0 | enabl_discovery_api_ver_2_0_0.proto |
| Enabl_Events_API | 9.3.4.1.2.2 | 2.0.0 | enabl_events_api_ver_2_0_0.proto |
| Enabl_Registration_API | 9.3.4.1.2.3 | 1.0.0 | enabl_registration_api_ver_1_0_0.proto |
| Enablement API common information elements | 9.3.4.1.3 | 2.0.0 | enabl_apis_common_ies_ver_2_0_0.proto |
| Near-RT RIC API common information elements | 10.2.1 | 2.0.0 | near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies_ver_2_0_0.proto |

##### 9.3.4.1.2 API Definitions

syntax = "proto3";

package ricapi.enabl_discovery_api.v2;

import "near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies_ver_2_0_0.proto";

import "enabl_apis_common_ies_ver_2_0_0.proto";

// gRPC service and rpc definition

service Enabl_Discovery_API {

rpc ApiDiscoveryProc(ApiDiscoveryInitMsg) returns (ApiDiscoveryOutMsg) {};

}

message ApiDiscoveryInitMsg {

optional ApiDiscoveryRequest api_discovery_request = 1;

}

message ApiDiscoveryOutMsg {

oneof type_of_message {

ApiDiscoveryResponse api_discovery_response = 1;

ApiDiscoveryFailure api_discovery_failure = 2;

}

}

// ---------------- messages of Enabl_Discovery_API ----------------

// -------- messages of API Discovery procedure --------

message ApiDiscoveryRequest {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.XappId xapp_id = 1;

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 3;

optional QueryParameters qps = 2;

message QueryParameters {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ApiName api_name = 1;

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ApiVersion api_version = 2;

optional enabl_apis_common_ies.v2.Protocol protocol = 3;

optional enabl_apis_common_ies.v2.DataFormat data_format = 4;

optional enabl_apis_common_ies.v2.ApiCategory api_category = 5;

};

};

message ApiDiscoveryResponse {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.XappId xapp_id = 1;

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 3;

repeated enabl_apis_common_ies.v2.ApiInformation list_of_api_information = 2;

};

message ApiDiscoveryFailure {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.XappId xapp_id = 1;

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 4;

optional enabl_apis_common_ies.v2.Cause cause = 2;

optional uint32 time_to_wait = 3;

};

syntax = "proto3";

package ricapi.enabl_events_api.v2;

import "near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies_ver_2_0_0.proto";

import "enabl_apis_common_ies_ver_2_0_0.proto";

// gRPC service and rpc definition

service Enabl_Events_API {

rpc ApiEventSubscriptionProc(ApiEventSubscriptionInitMsg) returns (ApiEventSubscriptionOutMsg) {};

rpc ApiEventSubscriptionDeleteProc(ApiEventSubscriptionDeleteInitMsg) returns (ApiEventSubscriptionDeleteOutMsg) {};

}

message ApiEventSubscriptionInitMsg {

optional ApiEventSubscriptionRequest api_event_subscription_request = 1;

}

message ApiEventSubscriptionOutMsg {

oneof type_of_message {

ApiEventSubscriptionResponse api_event_subscription_response = 1;

ApiEventSubscriptionFailure api_event_subscription_failure = 2;

}

}

message ApiEventSubscriptionDeleteInitMsg {

optional ApiEventSubscriptionDeleteRequest api_event_subscription_delete_request = 1;

}

message ApiEventSubscriptionDeleteOutMsg {

oneof type_of_message {

ApiEventSubscriptionDeleteResponse api_event_subscription_delete_response = 1;

ApiEventSubscriptionDeleteFailure api_event_subscription_delete_failure = 2;

}

}

service Enabl_Events_API_Notification {

rpc ApiEventNotificationProc(ApiEventNotificationInitMsg) returns (ApiEventNotificationOutMsg) {};

}

message ApiEventNotificationInitMsg {

optional ApiEventNotification api_event_notification = 1;

}

message ApiEventNotificationOutMsg {

oneof type_of_message {

ApiEventNotificationACK api_event_notification_ack = 1;

}

}

// ---------------- messages of Enabl_Events_API ----------------

// -------- messages of API Event Subscription procedure --------

message ApiEventSubscriptionRequest {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.XappId xapp_id = 1;

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 5;    repeated EventItem list_of_events = 2;

optional EventNotificationRequirements event_notification_requirements = 3;

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.EndpointInformation notification_destination = 4;

message EventItem {

optional enabl_apis_common_ies.v2.EventType event_type = 1;

repeated ApiIdFilterItem api_id_filter = 2;

message ApiIdFilterItem {

optional enabl_apis_common_ies.v2.ApiId api_id = 1;

}

}

message EventNotificationRequirements {

optional NotificationMethod notification_method = 1;

optional uint32 notification_period = 2;

enum NotificationMethod {

NOTIFICATION_METHOD_ON_EVENT = 0;

NOTIFICATION_METHOD_PERIODIC = 1;

}

}

};

message ApiEventSubscriptionResponse {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.XappId xapp_id = 1;

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 3;

optional enabl_apis_common_ies.v2.SubscriptionId subscription_id = 2;

}

message ApiEventSubscriptionFailure {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.XappId xapp_id = 1;

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 4;

optional enabl_apis_common_ies.v2.Cause cause = 2;

optional uint32 time_to_wait = 3;

}

// -------- messages of API Event Subscription Delete procedure --------

message ApiEventSubscriptionDeleteRequest {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.XappId xapp_id = 1;

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 3;

optional enabl_apis_common_ies.v2.SubscriptionId subscription_id = 2;

};

message ApiEventSubscriptionDeleteResponse {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.XappId xapp_id = 1;

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 3;

optional enabl_apis_common_ies.v2.SubscriptionId subscription_id = 2;

}

message ApiEventSubscriptionDeleteFailure {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.XappId xapp_id = 1;

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 4;

optional enabl_apis_common_ies.v2.Cause cause = 2;

optional uint32 time_to_wait = 3;

}

// -------- messages of API Event Notification procedure --------

message ApiEventNotification {

optional enabl_apis_common_ies.v2.SubscriptionId subscription_id = 1;

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 4;

optional enabl_apis_common_ies.v2.EventType event_type = 2;

optional EventDetail event_detail = 3;

message EventDetail {

repeated enabl_apis_common_ies.v2.ApiId list_of_api_ids = 1;

repeated enabl_apis_common_ies.v2.ApiInformation list_of_api_information = 2;

};

};

message ApiEventNotificationACK {

optional enabl_apis_common_ies.v2.SubscriptionId subscription_id = 1;

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 2;

};

9.3.4.1.2.3	Enabl_Registration_API

syntax = "proto3";

package ricapi.enabl_registration_api_v1;

import "near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies_ver_2_0_0.proto";

import "enabl_apis_common_ies_ver_2_0_0.proto";

// gRPC service and rpc definition

service Enabl_Registration_API {

rpc ApiRegistrationProc(ApiRegistrationInitMsg) returns (ApiRegistrationOutMsg) {};

rpc ApiRegistrationUpdateProc(ApiRegistrationUpdateInitMsg) returns (ApiRegistrationUpdateOutMsg) {};

rpc ApiDeregistrationProc(ApiDeregistrationInitMsg) returns (ApiDeregistrationOutMsg) {};

}

message ApiRegistrationInitMsg {

optional ApiRegistrationRequest api_registration_request = 1;

}

message ApiRegistrationOutMsg {

oneof type_of_message {

ApiRegistrationResponse api_registration_response = 1;

ApiRegistrationFailure api_registration_failure = 2;

}

}

message ApiRegistrationUpdateInitMsg {

optional ApiRegistrationUpdateRequest api_registration__update_request = 1;

}

message ApiRegistrationUpdateOutMsg {

oneof type_of_message {

ApiRegistrationUpdateResponse api_registration_update_response = 1;

ApiRegistrationUpdateFailure api_registration_update_failure = 2;

}

}

message ApiDeregistrationInitMsg {

optional ApiDeregistrationRequest api_deregistration_request = 1;

}

message ApiDeregistrationOutMsg {

oneof type_of_message {

ApiDeregistrationResponse api_deregistration_response = 1;

ApiDeregistrationFailure api_deregistration_failure = 2;

}

}

// ---------------- messages of Enabl_Registration_API ----------------

// -------- messages of API Registration procedure --------

message ApiRegistrationRequest {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 1;

repeated ApiInformationToRegisterItem list_of_api_information_to_register = 2;

message ApiInformationToRegisterItem {

optional enabl_apis_common_ies.v2.ApiInformation api_information = 1;

}

}

message ApiRegistrationResponse {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 1;

repeated ApiInformationSuccessfullyRegisteredItem list_of_api_information_successfully_registered = 2;

repeated ApiInformationFailedToRegisterItem list_of_api_information_failed_to_register = 3;

message ApiInformationSuccessfullyRegisteredItem {

optional enabl_apis_common_ies.v2.ApiInformation api_information = 1;

}

message ApiInformationFailedToRegisterItem {

optional enabl_apis_common_ies.v2.ApiInformation api_information = 1;

optional enabl_apis_common_ies.v2.Cause cause = 2;

}

}

message ApiRegistrationFailure {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 1;

repeated ApiInformationFailedToRegisterItem list_of_api_information_failed_to_register = 2;

message ApiInformationFailedToRegisterItem {

optional enabl_apis_common_ies.v2.ApiInformation api_information = 1;

optional enabl_apis_common_ies.v2.Cause cause = 2;

}

}

// -------- messages of API Registration Update procedure --------

message ApiRegistrationUpdateRequest {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 1;

repeated ApiInformationToUpdateItem list_of_api_information_to_update = 2;

message ApiInformationToUpdateItem {

optional enabl_apis_common_ies.v2.ApiInformation api_information = 1;

}

}

message ApiRegistrationUpdateResponse {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 1;

repeated ApiIdSuccessfullyUpdatedItem list_of_api_ids_successfully_updated = 2;

repeated ApiIdFailedToUpdateItem list_of_api_ids_failed_to_update = 3;

message ApiIdSuccessfullyUpdatedItem {

optional enabl_apis_common_ies.v2.ApiId api_id = 1;

}

message ApiIdFailedToUpdateItem {

optional enabl_apis_common_ies.v2.ApiId api_id = 1;

optional enabl_apis_common_ies.v2.Cause cause = 2;

}

}

message ApiRegistrationUpdateFailure {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 1;

repeated ApiIdFailedToUpdateItem list_of_api_ids_failed_to_update = 2;

message ApiIdFailedToUpdateItem {

optional enabl_apis_common_ies.v2.ApiId api_id = 1;

optional enabl_apis_common_ies.v2.Cause cause = 2;

}

}

// -------- messages of API Deregistration procedure --------

message ApiDeregistrationRequest {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 1;

repeated ApiIdToDeregisterItem list_of_api_ids_to_deregister = 2;

message ApiIdToDeregisterItem {

optional enabl_apis_common_ies.v2.ApiId api_id = 1;

}

}

message ApiDeregistrationResponse {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 1;

repeated ApiIdSuccessfullyDeregisteredItem list_of_api_ids_successfully_deregistered = 2;

repeated ApiIdFailedToDeregisterItem list_of_api_ids_failed_to_deregister = 3;

message ApiIdSuccessfullyDeregisteredItem {

optional enabl_apis_common_ies.v2.ApiId api_id = 1;

}

message ApiIdFailedToDeregisterItem {

optional enabl_apis_common_ies.v2.ApiId api_id = 1;

optional enabl_apis_common_ies.v2.Cause cause = 2;

}

}

message ApiDeregistrationFailure {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ProcedureTransactionId procedure_transaction_id = 1;

repeated ApiIdFailedToDeregisterItem list_of_api_ids_failed_to_deregister = 2;

message ApiIdFailedToDeregisterItem {

optional enabl_apis_common_ies.v2.ApiId api_id = 1;

optional enabl_apis_common_ies.v2.Cause cause = 2;

}

}

##### 9.3.4.1.3 Information Element Definitions

syntax = "proto3";

package ricapi.enabl_apis_common_ies.v2;

import "near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies_ver_2_0_0.proto";

// ----------------------------- Information Elements -----------------------------

// --------------A--------------

enum ApiCategory {

APICATEGORY_E2_RELATED = 0;

APICATEGORY_SDL = 1;

APICATEGORY_A1_RELATED = 2;

};

message ApiId {

optional string value = 1;

}

message ApiInformation {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ApiName api_name = 1;

optional ApiId api_id = 2;

optional ApiCategory api_category = 3;

optional string description = 4;

repeated ApiProfile list_of_api_profiles = 5;

message ApiProfile {

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.ApiVersion api_version = 1;

optional Protocol protocol = 2;

optional DataFormat data_format = 3;

optional near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2.EndpointInformation endpoint_information = 4;

repeated SupportedDataTypeItem list_of_supported_data_types = 5;

message SupportedDataTypeItem {

optional string data_type_id = 1;

}    };

};

// --------------C--------------

enum Cause {

UNSPECIFIED = 0;

SYSTEM_BUSY = 1;

DUPLICATE_API_INFORMATION = 2;

UNKNOWN_API_ID = 3;

INVALID_DATA_TYPE = 4;

UNKNOWN_SUBSCRIPTION_ID = 5;

}

// --------------D--------------

enum DataFormat {

DATA_FORMAT_PROTO3 = 0;

DATA_FORMAT_JSON = 1;

DATA_FORMAT_ASN1 = 2;

};

enum EventType {

EVENT_TYPE_NEAR_RT_RIC_API_AVAILABLE = 0;

EVENT_TYPE_NEAR_RT_RIC_API_UNAVAILABLE = 1;

EVENT_TYPE_NEAR_RT_RIC_API_UPDATE = 2;

}

// --------------P--------------

enum Protocol {

PROTOCOL_GRPC = 0;

PROTOCOL_SCTP = 1;

PROTOCOL_HTTP = 2;

};

// --------------S--------------

message SubscriptionId {

optional string value = 1;

}

### 9.3.5 Message Transfer Syntax

#### 9.3.5.1 Solution 1: gRPC with Protocol Buffers

The message transfer syntax for Solution 1 is serialized Protocol Buffers [4].

# 10 Common definitions across APIs

## 10.1 Information element definitions

### 10.1.1 PTI

The Procedure Transaction Identity (PTI) IE allows identifing a procedure among all ongoing parallel procedures of the same type initiated by the same RICAPI peer. The PTI value is assigned to the initiating message by the procedure initiator, and subsequent messages shall include the same PTI value as in the initiating message, if any. PTI is released when the procedure is completed.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE Type and Reference | Semantics Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| PTI | M |  | INTEGER (0..232-1) |  |

### 10.1.2 xApp ID

The xApp ID IE uniquely identifies an xApp.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| xApp ID | M |  | STRING | The format of the xApp ID shall be a Universally Unique Identifier (UUID) version 4, as described in [9]. |

### 10.1.3 API Name

The API Name IE indicates the Name of each Near-RT RIC API.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| API Name | M |  | ENUMERATED (E2_Subscription_API, E2_Indication_API, E2_Control_API, E2_Guidance_API, A1_Policy _API, A1_EI_API, SDL_Information_API, Xapp_Data_Sharing_API, ...) | Contains the Near-RT RIC API name. |

The table 10.1.3-1 lists the API Names.

| API Category | API Name |
| --- | --- |
| E2 related APIs | E2_Subscription_API, E2_Indication_API, E2_Control_API, E2_Guidance_API |
| A1 related APIs | A1_Policy_API, A1_EI_API |
| SDL APIs | SDL_Information_API, Xapp_Data_Sharing_API |

### 10.1.4 API Version

The API Version IE indicates the Version of each Near-RT RIC API.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| API Version | M |  | STRING | Contains the Near-RT RIC API Version. |

### 10.1.5 A1 Policy Type ID

The A1 Policy Type ID IE identifies the type of one A1 policy.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE Type and Reference | Semantics Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| A1 Policy Type ID | M |  | STRING | Applicable values defined in [7]. |

### 10.1.6 Global E2 Node ID

Defined in 9.2.6 of [3].

### 10.1.7 RAN Function ID

Defined in 9.2.8 of [3].

### 10.1.8 SCTP API PDU

The SCTP API PDU IE serves as the outer layer encapsulation for the payload when SCTP is used as the transport protocol.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE Type and Reference | Semantics Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| API Name | M |  | 10.1.3 |  |
| API Version | M |  | 10.1.4 |  |
| API Payload | M |  | OCTET STRING |  |

### 10.1.9 Endpoint Information

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Domain Name | O |  | STRING | (NOTE1) |
| IPv4 Address | O |  | STRING | (NOTE1) |
| IPv6 Address | O |  | STRING | (NOTE1) |
| Port | O |  | INTEGER |  |
| NOTE1: At least one of these IEs shall be present. |  |  |  |  |

## 10.2 Information element abstract syntax

### 10.2.1 Abstact syntax in Protocol Buffers

Table 10.2.1-1 lists the common IEs abstract syntax included in this document.

| API Name / Contents | Clause | Version | File Name |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Near-RT RIC API common information elements | 10.2.1 | 2.0.0 | near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies_ver_2_0_0.proto |

syntax = "proto3";

package ricapi.near_rt_ric_apis_common_ies.v2;

// Information elements used across different API categories

// ----------------------------- Information Elements -----------------------------

// --------------A--------------

// From A1TD Clause 5.2

message A1PolicyTypeId {

optional string value = 1;

}

enum ApiName {

APINAME_E2_SUBSCRIPTION_API = 0;

APINAME_E2_INDICATION_API = 1;

APINAME_E2_CONTROL_API = 2;

APINAME_E2_GUIDANCE_API = 3;

APINAME_A1_POLICY_API = 4;

APINAME_A1_EI_API = 5;

APINAME_SDL_INFORMATION_API = 6;

APINAME_XAPP_DATA_SHARING_API = 7;

};

message ApiVersion {

optional string value = 1;

}

// --------------B--------------

// BitString definition

message BitString {

optional bytes value = 1;

optional uint32 len = 2;

}

// --------------E--------------

message EndpointInformation {

optional string domain_name = 1;

optional string ipv4_address = 2;

optional string ipv6_address = 3;

optional uint32 port = 4;

};

// --------------G--------------

// From E2AP Clause 9.2.6, "Global E2 Node ID"

message GlobalE2NodeId {

oneof node_type {

GlobalE2NodeGnbId gnb = 1;

GlobalE2NodeEnGnbId en_gnb = 2;

GlobalE2NodeNgEnbId ng_enb = 3;

GlobalE2NodeEnbId enb = 4;

}

message GlobalE2NodeGnbId {

optional GlobalGnbId global_gnb_id = 1;

optional GlobalEnGnbId global_en_gnb_id = 2;

optional GnbCuUpId gnb_cu_up_id = 3;

optional GnbDuId gnb_du_id = 4;

}

message GlobalE2NodeEnGnbId {

optional GlobalEnGnbId global_en_gnb_id = 1;

optional GnbCuUpId en_gnb_cu_up_id = 2;

optional GnbDuId en_gnb_du_id = 3;

}

message GlobalE2NodeNgEnbId {

optional GlobalNgEnbId global_ng_enb_id = 1;

optional GlobalEnbId global_enb_id = 2;

optional NgEnbDuId ng_enb_du_id = 3;

}

message GlobalE2NodeEnbId {

optional GlobalEnbId global_enb_id = 1;

}

}

// From E2AP Clause 9.2.6, as part of "Global E2 Node ID"

message GlobalEnbId {

optional PlmnIdentity plmn_identity = 1;

oneof enb_id_choice {

BitString macro_enb_id = 2;

BitString home_enb_id = 3;

BitString short_macro_enb_id = 4;

BitString long_macro_enb_id = 5;

}

}

// From E2AP Clause 9.2.6, as part of "Global E2 Node ID"

message GlobalEnGnbId {

optional PlmnIdentity plmn_identity = 1;

oneof en_gnb_id_choice {

BitString en_gnb_id = 2;

}

}

// From E2AP Clause 9.2.6, as part of "Global E2 Node ID"

message GlobalGnbId {

optional PlmnIdentity plmn_identity = 1;

oneof gnb_id_choice {

BitString gnb_id = 2;

}

}

// From E2AP Clause 9.2.6, as part of "Global E2 Node ID"

message GlobalNgEnbId {

optional PlmnIdentity plmn_identity = 1;

oneof ng_enb_id_choice {

BitString macro_ng_enb_id = 2;

BitString short_macro_ng_enb_id = 3;

BitString long_macro_ng_enb_id = 4;

}

}

// From E2AP Clause 9.2.6, as part of "Global E2 Node ID"

message GnbCuUpId {

optional uint64 value = 1;

}

// From E2AP Clause 9.2.6, as part of "Global E2 Node ID"

message GnbDuId {

optional uint64 value = 1;

}

// --------------N--------------

// From E2AP Clause 9.2.6, as part of "Global E2 Node ID"

message NgEnbDuId {

optional uint64 value = 1;

};

// --------------P--------------

// From E2AP Clause 9.2.6, as part of "Global E2 Node ID"

message PlmnIdentity {

optional bytes value = 1;

};

message ProcedureTransactionId {

optional uint32 value = 1;

};

// --------------R--------------

// From E2AP Clause 9.2.8, "RAN Function ID"

message RanFunctionId {

optional uint32 value = 1;

};

//---------------S--------------

// Outer layer encapsulation for SCTP based APIs

message SctpApiPdu {

optional ApiName api_name = 1;

optional ApiVersion api_version = 2;

optional bytes api_payload = 3;

}

// --------------X--------------

message XappId {

optional string value = 1;

}


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG3.TR.ConMit-R004-v01.00 .md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG3.TR.ConMit-R004-v01.00 "
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms

## 3.2 Symbols

## 3.3 Abbreviations

For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:

- **API**: Application Programming Interface
- **CCO**: Coverage and Capacity Optimization
- **ConMit**: Conflict Mitigation
- **E2SM**: E2 Service Model
- **KPI**: Key Performance Indicator
- **MRO**: Mobility Robustness Optimization
- **Near-RT RIC**: Near-Real-time RAN Intelligent Controller
- **RAN**: Radio Access Network
- **RICARCH**: RAN Intelligent Controller Architecture
- **SMO**: Service Management and Orchestration

# 4 Background and Concepts

## 4.1 Background

The principle that the Near-RT RIC includes support for Conflict Mitigation has been part of RICARCH [i.1] since the first version was published in 2021.  Conflict Mitigation in Near-RT RIC is a necessary functionality because xApps objectives may be chosen/configured such that they result in conflicting actions. Since then, however, the only change has been the addition of "E2 Guidance" procedure into clause 9.3 [i.1] for E2 Subscription and E2 Control procedures and the split of the v01.00 text into a brief statement in clause 6.2.3 and additional details in Annex A.

This state is sufficient if the Near-RT RIC platform hosts all aspects of conflict mitigation and hence but is insufficient, if, and when, deeper analysis reveals new requirements related to conflict mitigation that involve either inter-action with xApps and/or the SMO domain.

The purpose of the TR is therefore an analysis of the different types of conflicts defined in clause 4.2.1 in terms of methods for Conflict Detection, Resolution and Avoidance with the objective of identifying when and if new RIC APIs, new O1 use cases, and/or extensions to E2SMs are required to support Conflict Mitigation.  This identification shall result in "key issues" and their " potential solutions" for Conflict Detection, Resolution and Avoidance.

## 4.2 Concepts

### 4.2.1 Types of Conflicts

Conflicts between xApps can be broadly divided into three types.

- Direct Conflicts: The conflicts can be observed directly. Some cases are described as below:
- Indirect Conflicts: The conflicts cannot be observed directly, nevertheless, some dependence among the parameters and resources that the xApps target can be observed. For instance, different xApps target different configuration parameters to optimize the same metric according to their respective objectives. Even though this will not result in conflicting parameter settings, it may have uncontrollable or inadvertent system impacts. One example of such indirect conflicts can occur when the changes required by one xApp create a system impact which is equivalent to a parameter change targeted by another xApp. For example, antenna tilts and measurement offsets are different control points, but they both impact the handover boundary.
- Implicit Conflicts: The conflicts cannot be observed directly, even the dependence between xApps is not obvious. For instance, different xApps may optimize different metrics and (re-)configure different parameters. Nonetheless, optimizing one metric may have implicit, unwanted, and maybe adversary side effects on one of the metrics optimized by another xApp. E.g., protecting throughput metrics for GBR users may degrade non-GBR metrics or even cell throughput.

### 4.2.2 Framework for Conflict Mitigation

A comprehensive Conflict Mitigation framework consists of three procedures:

- Conflict Detection: Detection of potential and actual direct, indirect, and implicit conflicts.
- Conflict Resolution:  Resolution of ongoing conflicts, possibly beyond simple xApp enablement or disablement.
- Conflict Avoidance: Providing guidance and information to xApps in order to avoid future conflicts.
The above procedures should be enabled to make use of Near RT RIC platform functionalities and they may require services provided by xApps. These services and functionalities may include AI/ML methods and optimization techniques etc. For this reason, the above procedures may be seen as “use-cases”. However, these use-cases do not deal with network performance KPIs directly, such as the use-cases considered in UCTG WG1. In contrast, these procedures enable xApps to execute their business logic safely in an environment in which there could be many multi-vendor xApps with different business logic and objectives.

It is clear that the above procedures are potentially more “intelligent” than other native functionalities of Near RT RIC platform such as data base, AI/ML training, xApp subscription management etc. In particular, Conflict Mitigation is likely to need to decode/understand E2SM level data such as network KPIs and control parameters.

One design option would be to introduce support for specialized "conflict mitigation related xApps" to perform these roles.  This approach opens up a significant opportunity for companies to develop intelligent solutions, in form of xApps, that provide conflict mitigation related value added services to Conflict Mitigation in the platform.

The above text discusses only discusses a few possibilities that may be considered. The precise "key Issues” arising in the Conflict Mitigation framework and their solutions shall be discussed in detail in Chapters 5, 6, and 7.

## 4.3 Working Principles

In light of the RIC ARCH specification [i.1] clause 6.2.3 and the WI description, the current scope of this TR is restricted to mitigation of conflicts in xApp actions over the E2 interface. The motivations behind xApp actions (e.g., O1 configuration or A1 policies etc.) are not covered currently by the TR in context of conflict mitigation. However, this work may serve as the basis for and complimentary to further future work covering A1 and O1 aspects as well.

# 5 Conflict Detection

## 5.1 Key Issues

### 5.1.1 Key Issue #1 Detection of E2-related Potential Conflicts

#### 5.1.1.1 Description

Potential conflicts (i.e., future probable conflicts) between xApp actions may be detected pre-action by the Near-RT RIC platform, i.e., before RIC Control Request or RIC Subscription Request messages are sent to the E2 Node. At least for direct conflicts, this conflict mitigation functionality shall allow for pre-action xApp conflict resolution and conflict avoidance. Information obtained from this procedure may be used during confirmation/detection of actual conflicts discussed in later clauses.

- NOTE: This key issue is restricted to only pre-action detection of “potential” conflicts, i.e., these conflicts may demand further investigation, but they may not result in “actual” conflicts discussed in later clauses.

#### 5.1.1.2 Impacted Use-Cases

All use cases impacted by, at least, E2-related direct conflicts. See clause 5.1.2.2.

#### 5.1.1.3 Considerations

The following considerations should be kept in mind when providing solutions to this key issue:

- Near-RT RIC platform’s conflict mitigation (ConMit) functionality may be used. The platform may obtain information from xApp Subscription Management to perform this task.
- The xApp control actions do not need to be simultaneous for them to cause conflicts. For example, if an xApp’s control target is a particular cell, then it may “potentially” cause a conflict with an existing running xApp subscription whose control target is the same cell.
- Because xApps are likely to repeat their behavior, previously detected potential conflicts may be considered for future E2 Guidance [i.1].

#### 5.1.1.4 Open issues

void.

### 5.1.2 Key Issue #2 Detection of E2-related Direct Conflicts

#### 5.1.2.1 Description

Direct conflicts occur due to overlapping RAN Parameters and/or overlapping RAN resources between xApps, e.g., when two xApps request to configure the same RAN parameter(s). See clause 4.2.1 for description of conflict types.

#### 5.1.2.2 Impacted Use-Cases

Several use-cases may share the same control parameter, or more generally, access the same RAN resources. For example, handover parameters may be configured by xApps for Mobility Robustness Optimization (MRO), Traffic Steering and/or Load-Balancing.

#### 5.1.2.3 Considerations

The following considerations should be kept in mind when providing solutions to this key issue:

- Detection of direct conflicts may use E2AP and/or E2SM specific information.
- Detection of direct conflicts may happen after further investigation of detected potential conflicts.
- Conflicts may be detected pre-action (i.e., before RIC Control Request or RIC Subscription Request messages have been sent to the E2 Node) or post-action (i.e., after RIC Control Request or RIC Subscription Request messages have been sent to the E2 Node.
- xApps actions may be conflicting directly even if they are not simultaneous.
- Direct conflicts may not just involve RAN control parameters. Two xApps may request the same RAN resources or the sum of RAN resources required by xApps may exceed the capacity of the RAN node.
- If the two xApps target different KPIs, then KPI improvement/degradation or potential KPI improvement/degradation and their relative importance may also be considered at this stage.  For example, if actions of one xApp do not degrade KPIs of other xApps, then this may not be considered as a conflict.

#### 5.1.2.4 Open issues

The following issues are open:

- If E2SM-specific information is used to detect conflicts, it's unclear whether E2SM inspection may be performed by the platform or by the conflicting xApps through direct or indirect communication.
- If the detection is performed by the platform using E2SM-specific information, the platform shall need to “understand/decode” this information.

### 5.1.3 Key Issue #3 Detection of E2-related Indirect and/or Implicit Conflicts

#### 5.1.3.1 Description

During indirect and/or implicit conflicts, xApps target different RAN control parameters (i.e., they do not conflict directly) but there may be some known or unknown coupling/dependence between them (see clause 4.2.1 in Chapter 4). This dependence may be in terms of their KPIs (which may be overlapping or different) or the impacts of their actions on the overall RAN state, i.e., actions of one xApp may cause the RAN state to change in such a way that previous actions of another xApp are no longer optimal for this new RAN state. Unless such conflicts are resolved/managed, such dependencies can cause uncontrollable system oscillations and performance degradations.

#### 5.1.3.2 Impacted Use-Cases

It is likely that many use cases are impacted by indirect and/or implicit conflicts including the already specified use cases. An example is the change in handover boundary (by e.g., MRO) which shall have an impact on xApps implementing Energy Savings, Traffic Steering (TS), Load Balancing, and Coverage and Capacity (CCO) etc. functionality.

#### 5.1.3.3 Considerations

The following considerations should be kept in mind when providing solutions to this key issue:

- Detection may use E2AP and/or E2SM-specific information.
- Detection of indirect and/or implicit conflicts may happen after further investigation of detected potential conflicts.
- Conflicts may be detected pre-action (i.e., before RIC Control Request or RIC Subscription Request messages have been sent to the E2 Node) or post-action (i.e., after RIC Control Request or RIC Subscription Request messages have been sent to the E2 Node.
- The same solution may work for both indirect and implicit conflicts.
- Only “harmful” conflicts may be detected. This may be justified by the fact that many RAN KPIs are coupled with each other, and achieving an entirely conflict-free system may be impossible.  In such cases, we can consider managing conflicts rather than removing them completely.
- The detection of indirect and/or implicit conflicts between xApps may be significantly challenging and it may require state-of-art AI/ML methods.

#### 5.1.3.4 Open issues

Same as discussed in clause 5.1.2.4.

## 5.2 Solutions

### 5.2.1 Solution #1 E2AP level direct conflict detection by Near-RT RIC platform

#### 5.2.1.1 Introduction

Key issue #1 for Conflict Detection (clause 5.1.1) describes the need for potential pre-action conflict detection by the Near-RT RIC platform for the specific case where the ConMit functionality in the Near-RT RIC platform is restricted to using only E2AP level information.

This solution assumes that only E2AP level information {E2 Node Id, RAN Function ID, RIC Action Type} may be used by the platform during the RICARCH [i.1] defined xApp initiated E2 Subscription procedure ([i.1] clause 9.3.2.1), E2 Control procedure ([i.1] clause 9.3.2.4) and E2 Guidance request/response procedure ([i.1] clause 9.3.3.1). any additional information contained within E2SM specific encoded IEs would be transparent to the Near-RT RIC Platform.

#### 5.2.1.2 Functional Description

The Conflict Mitigation functionality in the Near-RT RIC platform ([i.1] clause 6.2.3) is assumed to handle E2AP level information from a requesting xApp and may compare this with similar information obtained from other xApps from previous E2 Subscription, E2 Control and/or E2 Guidance requests.

An “E2AP level” potential conflict would be detected when and if the xApp requests the same RIC Action Type (particularly for POLICY) from E2 Subscription Request or CONTROL from E2 Control Request, for the same RAN Function ID on the same E2 Node ID as was previously used by another xApp.

#### 5.2.1.3 Procedures

For the E2AP Level conflict detection process, RICARCH [i.1] clause 9.3.3.1 (E2 guidance request/response procedure) step 3 “Near-RT RIC platform processes request” and clause 9.3.3.5 (E2 Guidance modification procedure) step 1 “Near-RT RIC platform identifies affected xApps and performs conflict mitigation processing” covers the scope of this solution.

#### 5.2.1.4 Evaluation

This solution is, by itself, sub-optimal as E2AP level potential conflict detection would often generate false positive detections whenever multiple xApps attempt to use the same RIC Action Type (i.e. POLICY) but with different target services.

Examples include:

- -	For a RAN function defined using E2SM-RC [i.2] when the different xApps are requesting POLICY services using different RIC Style Types.  In this case there would not be a direct conflict but this would require analysis at the E2SM level and not just the E2AP level.

### 5.2.2 Solution #2 E2SM level direct conflict detection by Near-RT RIC platform

#### 5.2.2.1 Introduction

Key issue #1 for Conflict Detection (clause 5.1.1) describes the need for potential pre-action conflict detection by the Near-RT RIC platform for the specific case where the ConMit functionality in the Near-RT RIC Platform is able to use both E2AP and E2SM level information.

Key issue #2 for Conflict Detection (clause 5.1.2) describes the possibility of “E2SM inspection may be performed by the platform”.

This solution assumes that after E2AP level information {E2 Node Id, RAN Function ID, RIC Action Type} analysis the platform may then also perform E2SM level analysis during the RICARCH [i.1] defined xApp initiated E2 Subscription procedure ([i.1] clause 9.3.2.1), E2 Control procedure ([i.1] clause 9.3.2.4) and E2 Guidance request/response procedure ([i.1] clause 9.3.3.1).

#### 5.2.2.2 Functional Description

Solution #1 describes how the Near-RT RIC platform ([i.1] clause 6.2.3) would use E2AP level information from a requesting xApp and compare this with similar information obtained from other xApps from previous E2 Subscription, E2 Control and/or E2 Guidance requests.  The result would be a “E2AP level” potential conflict detection.

In this solution the Conflict Mitigation functionality in the Near-RT RIC platform may then inspect E2SM level information from both the requesting xApp and the previous requests selected using E2AP level detection to determine if a direct conflict is likely to exist.

Examples include:

- -	For a RAN function defined using E2SM-RC [i.2] when the different xApps are requesting POLICY services using the same RIC Style Type (i.e. Style 1 for Radio Bearer Control), same RIC Action ID (i.e. ID 2 for QoS flow mapping configuration).  In this case there would be a significant chance that the request is in direct conflict with a previous request from another xApp and that a Conflict Avoidance mechanism would be required.

#### 5.2.2.3 Procedures

For the E2AP level conflict detection process, RICARCH [i.1] clause 9.3.3.1 (E2 guidance request/response procedure) step 3 “Near-RT RIC platform processes request” and clause 9.3.3.5 (E2 Guidance modification procedure) step 1 “Near-RT RIC platform identifies affected xApps and performs conflict mitigation processing” covers the scope of this solution.

In this case the Near-RT RIC platform would process both E2AP and E2SM level information.

#### 5.2.2.4 Evaluation

This solution offers a sound solution for both E2AP and E2SM level direct conflict detection with a low chance of false positive detections.

The solution does however suffer from the need to align Near-RT RIC platform support of each E2SM with the versions used by each xApp which may prove to be difficult.

### 5.2.3 Solution #3 E2SM level direct conflict detection by xApps

#### 5.2.3.1 Introduction

Key issue #1 for Conflict Detection (clause 5.1.1) describes the need for potential pre-action conflict detection by the Near-RT RIC platform for the specific case where the ConMit functionality in the Near-RT RIC Platform is restricted to using only E2AP level information.

Key issue #2 for Conflict Detection (clause 5.1.2) describes the possibility of “E2SM inspection may be performed by the platform or by the conflicting xApps through direct or indirect communication”.

This solution assumes that after E2AP level information {E2 Node Id, RAN Function ID, RIC Action Type} analysis the platform may request that one or more xApps perform E2SM level analysis during the RICARCH [i.1] defined xApp initiated E2 Subscription procedure ([i.1] clause 9.3.2.1), E2 Control procedure ([i.1] clause 9.3.2.4) and E2 Guidance request/response procedure ([i.1] clause 9.3.3.1).

#### 5.2.3.2 Functional Description

Solution #1 for Conflict Detection describes how the Near-RT RIC platform ([i.1] clause 6.2.3) would use E2AP level information from a requesting xApp and compare this with similar information obtained from other xApps from previous E2 Subscription, E2 Control and/or E2 Guidance requests.  The result would be a “E2AP level” potential conflict detection.

In this solution the Conflict Mitigation functionality in the Near-RT RIC platform may then request both the requesting xApp and/or one or more of the previous xApp selected using E2AP level detection to then inspect the E2SM level information from the requesting xApp and the previous requests selected using E2AP level detection to determine if a direct conflict is likely to exist.

Examples include:

- -	For a RAN function defined using E2SM-RC [i.2] when the different xApps are requesting POLICY services using the same RIC Style Type (i.e. Style 1 for Radio Bearer Control), same RIC Action ID (i.e. ID 2 for QoS flow mapping configuration).  In this case there would be a significant chance that the request is in direct conflict with a previous request from another xApp and that a Conflict Avoidance mechanism would be required.

#### 5.2.3.3 Procedures

For the E2AP level conflict detection process, RICARCH [i.1] clause 9.3.3.1 (E2 guidance request/response procedure) step 3 “Near-RT RIC platform processes request” and clause 9.3.3.5 (E2 Guidance modification procedure) step 1 “Near-RT RIC platform identifies affected xApps and performs conflict mitigation processing” only covers the E2AP level analysis described in this solution.  These procedures would need to be modified to so that the Near-RT RIC platform may seek E2SM level analysis from one or more xApps.

RICARCH 9.3.3	E2 Guidance related procedures

RICARCH 9.3.3.1	E2 Guidance request/response procedure

The purpose of the xApp initiated E2 Guidance request/response API procedure in the Near-RT RIC is to allow authorized xApp to obtain guidance from the Near-RT RIC platform (with the conflict mitigation functionality) prior to initiating an action.

Guidance from Near-RT RIC platform may include:

- -	Indication on whether or not the xApp proposed E2 Related API message or series of messages may result in a conflict with E2 related API messages from other xApps;
- -	Recommendations on how the proposed E2 Related message or series of messages should be modified to avoid conflict;
- -	Modification of previous guidance to other xApps and/or Near-RT RIC platform internal processes.
This procedure is based on the following assumptions:

- -	xApp may use E2 Related API to obtain guidance from Near-RT RIC platform to resolve potential conflicts prior to initiating a RIC function procedure;
- -	xApp may use Near-RT RIC platform response in a subsequent procedure (i.e., for a RIC Functional Procedure).
This procedure is initiated by an xApp using E2 Related API: E2 Guidance request. The following outcomes are considered:

- -	Near-RT RIC Platform provides guidance to requesting xApp using E2 Related API: E2 Guidance response;
- -	Near-RT RIC Platform provides modified guidance to another xApp and/or its internal processes.

| Use Case Stage | Evolution / Specification |
| --- | --- |
| Goal | xApp initiation of Conflict Mitigation guidance. |
| Actors and Roles | xApp: Originator of Conflict Mitigation guidance request; Near-RT RIC platform, with the following functionalities: Database; Conflict mitigation. |
| Assumptions | Near-RT RIC platform has access to sufficient information to both detect a potential conflict and take a decision on an optimal mitigation solution; Near-RT RIC platform may initiate guidance towards other xApp as an optional addition response to Guidance Request. |
| Pre-conditions | xApp has been authorized to request guidance from Near-RT RIC platform for conflict mitigation; xApp has been assigned xApp ID. |
| Begins when | xApp determines need to request guidance from Near-RT RIC platform for conflict mitigation. |
| Step 1 (M) | xApp sends E2 Related API E2 Guidance Request to Near-RT RIC platform. |
| Step 2 (M) | Near-RT RIC platform collects related information. |
| Step 3A (M) | (MODIFIED) Near-RT RIC platform performs conflict mitigation detection |
| Step 3b (O) | (NEW) Near-RT RIC platform requests identified xApps to perform conflict mitigation detection |
| Step 3c (O) | (NEW) Near-RT RIC platform performs conflict mitigation processing. |
| Step 4-5 (O) | Near-RT RIC platform may signal conflict and/or provide guidance to internal processes and/or other xApps (see clause 9.3.3.5). |
| Step 6 (M) | Near-RT RIC platform sends E2 Related API E2 Guidance response to xApp. |
| Ends with | xApp continues processing using guidance response. |

RICARCH 9.3.3.5	E2 Guidance modification procedure

The purpose of the E2 Guidance modification procedure is to allow Near-RT RIC platform to signal a modified guidance to the xApp, which can be triggered by the Near-RT RIC platform’s internal process (e.g., xApp subscription management), or by a message from the other xApps or external interfaces.

The guidance may also be used for Near-RT RIC platform internal purposes.

| Use Case Stage | Evolution / Specification |
| --- | --- |
| Goal | Near-RT RIC platform indicates guidance to an xApp without request from the xApp. |
| Actors and Roles | xApp Near-RT RIC platform, with the following functionalities: Database Conflict mitigation External entity (e.g., E2 Node) |
| Assumptions | Near-RT RIC platform is capable of collecting related information, and generating proper guidance for an xApp. |
| Pre-conditions | Message from xApp, message from external interfaces, or Near-RT RIC platform’s internal process triggers conflict mitigation in Near-RT RIC platform. |
| Step 1a (M) | (MODIFIED) Near-RT RIC platform identifies potentially affected xApps and performs conflict mitigation processing. |
| Step 1b (O) | (NEW) Near-RT RIC platform requests identified xApps to perform conflict mitigation detection |
| Step 1c (O) | (NEW) Near-RT RIC platform performs conflict mitigation processing. |
| Step 2 (O) | Near-RT RIC platform may provide guidance to the affected xApp using E2 Guidance modification message. |
| Step 3 (O) | Near-RT RIC platform may also use the guidance for internal purposes. |

#### 5.2.3.4 Evaluation

This solution offers a sound solution for both E2AP and E2SM level direct conflict detection with a low chance of false positive detections.

The solution avoids the need to align Near-RT RIC platform support of each E2SM with the versions used by each xApp.  It does however rely on xApps supporting the appropriate E2SM versions.

### 5.2.4 Solution #4 Post-Action Detection of E2-related Indirect and/or Implicit Conflicts

#### 5.2.4.1 Introduction

Key issue #1 for Conflict Detection (clause 5.1.1) describes the need for potential pre-action conflict detection by the Near-RT RIC platform for the specific case where the ConMit functionality in the Near-RT RIC platform may use both E2AP and E2SM level information.

Key issue#3 for Conflict detection (clause 5.1.3) describes the possibility that detection of indirect and/or implicit conflicts may happen after further investigation of detected potential conflicts. However, an E2AP level conflict may not be confirmed at E2SM level pre-action. This may happen especially in case of indirect or implicit conflicts (see clause 4.2.1 and Key issue #3 in clause 5.1.3). Such conflicts are difficult to detect because in general xApp objectives based on some RAN KPIs are often “coupled” and complete decoupling may be impossible to obtain. The platform, therefore, may decide to allow the xApps to perform their respective policy or control actions on the E2 Node for as long as certain KPIs are not affected beyond an unacceptable level post-action. This means that, in such cases, the further investigation mentioned above (after detection of a potential conflict) must wait until after the affects of xApps’ actions are observable in the E2 Node. See clause 5.1.1.3 for considerations regarding indirect/implicit conflicts.

The proposed solution (detailed in clauses 5.2.4.2 and 5.2.4.3) involves monitoring and detection of indirect and/or implicit conflicts post-action (as considered in clause 5.1.1.3) after obtaining some conflict relevant information from the xApps and observing RAN performance metrics relevant to the xApps’ objectives.  The analysis happens in a limited context which is constructed from the information obtained from xApps’ subscription(s) (e.g., E2 Node, RAN Function, timing of associated RIC actions etc.) and the specific information provided by the xApps.

- NOTE: Since the platform may not be provisioned to handle E2SM information, the solution proposes two alternatives for E2SM processing. In implementation option 1, the ConMit functionality in the platform handles E2SM processing. In implementation option 2, a ConMit helper xApp handles E2SM processing and subscribes to the E2 Node to collect required information.

#### 5.2.4.2 Functional Description

The solution assumes the following prerequisites for the required conflict context:

- A potential conflict between xApps has been previously detected pre-action involving an E2 Node. For example, two xApps have taken policy or control related actions at the same E2 Node.
- The potentially conflicting xApps have been identified.
- A direct conflict has not been confirmed at the E2SM level pre-action. This analysis/inspection, however, may result in E2SM knowledge specific to potentially conflicting xApps, e.g., any RAN parameters contained in xApp’s subscription.
Overall Description: Post-action Conflict monitoring may be triggered by a request from an xApp, which is aware of a potential post-action conflict, and it has detected abnormalities/oscillations in it’s KPI(s). The solution proposes that the identified xApps provide the platform a set of RAN KPIs to be monitored. An xApp may provide the platform optional additional information such as, latest monitored values of these KPIs, the minimum acceptable values of these KPIs, and relevant RAN control parameters (NOTE: relevant control parameters may already be known to the platform during the prerequisite steps). The set of KPIs (per xApp) represents those E2SM defined KPIs in the E2 Node that the xApps consider to be important in terms of their own performance goals. If the provided information is insufficient to detect conflicts (e.g., if latest KPI values are not available), then ConMit must obtain the required data from the RAN E2 Node. After obtaining KPI data and other information, the ConMit service can monitor for any interdependence between xApp actions post-action using all the available information.

As an example, consider 2 xApps that request the platform to monitor two KPIs and they may provide some additional optional information as mentioned above. The solution can be extended to any number of xApps. KPI1 is identified by xApp1 and KPI2 is identified by xApp2. By monitoring the relative changes in the two KPIs, the E2AP and E2SM level subscription information (obtained from previous conflict mitigation processing mentioned in the assumptions above), and the additional optional information provided by the xApps, the platform may detect a certain “harmful interdependence” between the two xApps. The platform may use advance AI/ML methods or some other algorithms to perform this task. For example, if KPI1 degrades beyond a certain performance minimum in correlation with KPI2, this indicates a harmful coupling between the two xApps, i.e., a post-action indirect/implicit conflict has been detected. Another possibility is that, if KPI1 and KPI2 are the same, actions of the two xApps may cause oscillations as they change different RAN parameter values according to different objectives (see clause 4.2). The platform may use side-information to further enhance this detection (such as any faults reported by the E2 Node) to isolate the degradation cause as: a (possibly abnormal) degradation/oscillation caused by a conflict between xApps’ E2 related actions. The exact solution for this analysis is left for implementation.

- NOTE: The list of potentially affected KPIs, which the platfom obtains from the xApps, is the minimum information required for effective indirect conflict detection. However, even if the platform does not obtain added information from the xApps describing the unacceptable level of degradation or related RAN parameters, the platform may still detect abnormalities and dependence in KPIs.
As such, the solution consists of the following steps:

- Initialization: Trigger to monitor and detect indirect and/or implicit conflicts between certain xApps post-action. This part may be labelled as conflict mitigation related pre-processing as in E2 Gudiance API description in [i.1]. The platform may decide on its own to monitor for conflicts. Alternatively, the trigger may come from an xApp as mentioned above. At this point, it is assumed that, due to the earlier potential conflict detection, the platform is already aware of potentially conflicting xApps (i.e., which xApps are acting on the RAN Node in question). If there are no such other xApps, the platform may infom the requesting xApps of the same immediately.
- E2 Guidance: A list of E2SM defined KPIs provided by xApps to be monitored for post-action conflicts along with optional additional information that may support the platform to detect unacceptable/abnormal degradation and inter-dependence in xApp actions.
- Conflict Context: The ConMit functionality or a helper ConMit xApp constructs the conflict context containing identification of the E2 Node, the RAN Function, and KPIs to be monitored etc.  The E2AP information is assumed to be available at this point because of the earlier potential conflict detection.
- E2SM reporting & Monitoring: If required, the ConMit functionality or a helper ConMit xApp subscribes to the E2 Node for data collection in the limited conflict context. Post-action KPI monitoring is performed by the platform either directly or by a ConMit helper xApp.
- Data analysis: Processing for conflict detection performed by either the platform itself or by the ConMit helper xApp. This processing is left for implementation.
- E2 Guidance: Reporting of the detected conflict (or absence thereof) to the xApps by the platform contains the affected KPIs and, optionally, potentially conflicting RAN parameters of this xApp etc. NOTE: This information may then be used for subsequent conflict resolution and avoidance.

#### 5.2.4.3 Procedures

##### 5.2.4.3.1 Implementation 1 (Platform handles E2SM):

| Use Case Step | Description of the Step |
| --- | --- |
| Goal | ConMit functionality wants to resolve indirect and/or implicit conflicts at E2SM level among xApps |
| Actors and Roles | ConMit functionality xApps E2 Node |
| Assumptions | There are at least 2 xApps, 1 ConMit functionality, and 1 E2 Node available. The ConMit functionality understand E2SM information and it is provisioned to handle such information. |
| Pre-conditions | ConMit functionality is authorized to resolve conflicts among xApps. An E2AP level potential conflict is detected but has not been confirmed previously at E2SM level. xApps have been identified and informed about a potential conflict post-action. The necessary information regarding the E2 Node and the RAN Function is available. Additional optional side-information may also be available such as which RAN parameters may be involved in the conflict.  ConMit may request xApps for information which is required to detect the conflict post-action. |
| Begins when | Conflict detection trigger: Either an xApp requests the platform to detect a conflict with atleast one other xApp post action, or the platfrom’s ConMit functionality triggers the process. |
| Step 0 (O) | a) An xApp reports a potential performance related conflict to the ConMit functionality. b) The platform informs the xApp if there is a possible conflict that it can investigate. |
| Step 1 (M) | The ConMit requests xApps for the conflict relevant information |
| Step 2 (M) | The xApps prepare the conflict relevant information which contains the potentially affected KPIs and additional optional information such as degradation tolerance and RAN control parameters used in xApp’s RIC control or policy actions.    The xApps send conflict relevant information to ConMit functionality and request conflict detection based on this information. |
| Step 3 (M) | The ConMit functionality responds with an Acknowlegment of conflict detection request based on the provided information. |
| Step 4 (M) | The ConMit functionality constructs the conflict context |
| Step 5 (M) | Data analysis is performed by the ConMit functionality, and it is determined if the information is sufficient for conflict determination |
| Step 6 (O) | If step 5 results in a conflict determination, conflict report is sent to the xApps and the platform records the detected conflict for future use in conflict avoidance and resolution |
| Step 7 (M) | If data collection from RAN is required, the ConMit functionality subscribes to the E2 Node for information reporting in the conflict context |
| Step 8 (M) | The E2 Node does information reporting |
| Step 9 (M) | Data analysis is performed by the ConMit functionality |
| Step 10 (O) | Conflict report is sent to the xApps and ConMit records the detected conflict for future use in conflict avoidance and resolution |
| Ends when | A conflict or lack thereof is determined |
| Exceptions | N/A |
| Post conditions | N/A |

##### 5.2.4.3.2  Implementation 2 (Platform does not handle E2SM):

| Use Case Step | Description of the Step |
| --- | --- |
| Goal | ConMit functionality wants to resolve indirect and/or implicit conflicts at E2SM level among xApps |
| Actors and Roles | ConMit functionality xApps ConMit helper xApp |
| Assumptions | There are at least 2 xApps, 1 ConMit platform functionality, and 1 ConMit helper xApp. The ConMit functionality does not understand E2SM information and/or it is not provisioned to handle such information. |
| Pre-conditions | ConMit functionality is authorized to resolve conflicts among xApps. An E2AP level potential conflict is detected but has not been confirmed previously at E2SM level. xApps have been identified and informed about a potential conflict post-action. The necessary information regarding the E2 Node and the RAN Function is available. Additional optional side-information may also be available.  ConMit may request xApps for information which is required to detect the conflict post-action. |
| Begins when | Conflict detection trigger: Either an xApp requests the platform to detect a conflict with atleast one other xApp post action, or the platfrom’s ConMit functionality triggers the process. |
| Step 0 (O) | a) An xApp reports a potential performance related conflict to the ConMit functionality. b) The platform informs the xApp if there is a possible conflict that it can investigate. |
| Step 1 (M) | The ConMit requests xApps for the conflict relevant information |
| Step 2 (M) | The xApps prepare the conflict relevant information which contains the potentially affected KPIs and additional optional information such as degradation tolerance and RAN control parameters used in xApp’s RIC control or policy actions.    The xApps send conflict relevant information to ConMit functionality and request conflict detection based on this information. |
| Step 3 (M) | The ConMit functionality responds with an Acknowlegment of conflict detection request based on the provided information. The ConMit functionality, after obtaining information from the xApps, forwards this information to the helper xApp, provides associated E2AP level information, and requests a post-action conflict check |
| Step 4 (M) | The ConMit helper xApp contructs the conflict context. |
| Step 5 (M) | Data analysis is performed by the ConMit functionality, and it is determined if the information is sufficient for conflict determination |
| Step 6 (M) | If step 5 results in some determination, a conflict report is sent to the ConMit functionality by ConMit helper xApp. |
| Step 7 (0) | If step 5 results in some determination, conflict report is sent to the xApps and the platform records the detected conflict for future use in conflict avoidance and resolution. |
| Step 8 (M) | If data collection from RAN is required, ConMit helper xApp subscribes to the E2 Node for information reporting in the conflict context. |
| Step 9 (M) | The E2 Node does information reporting. |
| Step 10 (M) | Data analysis is performed by the ConMit helper xApp. |
| Step 11 (M) | Conflict report is sent to the ConMit functionality by ConMit helper xApp. |
| Step 12 (O) | Conflict report is sent to the xApps and ConMit records the detected conflict for future use in conflict avoidance and resolution |
| Ends when | A conflict or lack thereof is determined |
| Exceptions | N/A |
| Post conditions | N/A |

#### 5.2.4.4 Evaluation

The solution addresses the considerations in clause 5.1.1.3 in the following ways:

- The solution requires both E2AP and E2SM level information.
- The solution assumes that the platform and xApps are aware of a previously detected potential conflict which was not confirmed (pre-action) using E2AP and E2SM information. So further post-action investigation is required to detect any indirect/implicit conflicts.
- The solution proposes to detect indirect/implicit conflicts post-action. It is assumed that these conflicts are either not detected pre-action or they only arise post-action for certain RAN states.
- Only “harmful” conflicts may be detected. This may be justified by the fact that many RAN KPIs are coupled with each other, and achieving an entirely conflict-free system may be impossible.  In such cases, we can consider managing conflicts rather than removing them completely.
- Same solution works for both indirect and/or implicit conflicts.
The solution addresses the open issues in clause 5.1.1.4 in the following ways:

- The solution does not require direct xApp communication for conflict detection. The E2SM inspection is done by the platform or a helper xApp.
- If the platform is not provisioned to handle E2SM information, then a helper xApp is deployed for this purpose.  The xApps are not required to expose their business-logic. For example, the xApps may not expose changes made to the RAN parameters. The KPIs they expose/provide for conflict monitoring are standardized KPIs.
The solution requires tools for intelligent analysis of E2AP and E2SM specific data (e.g., the required correlation analysis or AI/ML methods) to be either part of the Near-RT RIC platform functionality or be provided as part of the helper xApp.

### 5.2.5 Solution #5 Pre-Action Detection of E2-related Indirect Conflicts with user configured parameter dependency information

#### 5.2.5.1 Introduction

Key issue#3 for Conflict detection (clause 5.1.3) describes the possibility that indirect conflicts may be detected pre-action, i.e., before RIC CONTROL REQUEST or RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST messages have been sent to the E2 Node.

- NOTE: As mentioned in clause 5.1.3.1, when xApps target different RAN control parameters, there can be conflicting impacts of their actions on the overall RAN state. This solution considers such scenarios as indirect conflicts, which do not need any KPIs to be monitored to detect the conflict.
The proposed solution (detailed in clauses 5.2.5.2 and 5.2.5.3) focuses on detecting the indirect conflicts pre-action (i.e. before RIC CONTROL REQUEST or RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST messages  have been sent to the E2 nodes) based on the parameter dependency information provided by the user as an input to the ConMit functionality or a helper ConMit xApp.

This solution assumes that after E2AP level information {E2 Node Id, RAN Function ID, RIC Action Type} analysis the ConMit Functionality or ConMit helper xApp also performs E2SM level analysis during the RICARCH [i.1] defined xApp initiated E2 Subscription procedure ([i.1] clause 9.3.2.1), E2 Control procedure ([i.1] clause 9.3.2.4) and E2 Guidance request/response procedure ([i.1] clause 9.3.3.1).

- NOTE: Since the platform may not be provisioned to handle E2SM information, the solution proposes two alternatives for E2SM processing. In implementation option 1, the ConMit functionality in the platform handles E2SM processing. In implementation option 2, a ConMit helper xApp handles E2SM processing and subscribes to the E2 Node to collect required information.

#### 5.2.5.2 Functional Description

The solution assumes the following prerequisites:

- Parameter dependency information is provided to the ConMit functionality or ConMit helper xApp as an input.
- This information can be in the form of a linear lookup table or a dependency graph or any other preferred format, which captures the relationship between the RAN parameters in RIC CONTROL/POLICY service and their probable impact on a set of KPIs (see clause 4.2.1). This information can be continuously improved as and when new conflicts are discovered.
- A human user can prepare this dependency information. Potentially the dependency information can be prepared and continuously improved by an AI/ML system.
Overall Description: Before the xApps are onboarded and put in operation, a user can analyze and predict the inter-dependencies among the RAN parameters changed by the xApps. The user provided parameter dependency information maps the RIC CONTROL/POLICY parameters to a common system impact. If the ConMit functionality or a helper ConMit xApp has inter-parameter dependencies and predicted system impacts for certain parameters, then it can detect indirect conflict after investigating E2SM and E2AP information from the xApp procedures, whenever these parameters are involved. As more conflicts between parameters are learned/discovered, the user can update the knowledge base.

ConMit functionality or a helper ConMit xApp uses this mapping to declare that RIC CONTROL/POLICY parameters changed by two or more xApps are in indirect conflict. Since the detection of potential conflict takes place before the RIC CONTROL REQUEST or RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST is applied to the E2 nodes, this is a pre-action detection. The solution can be extended to detecting any number of indirect co-existing conflicts across two or more xApps. For example, let us assume two xApps changing two different RAN parameters. xApp1 and xApp2 change RIC CONTROL/POLICY parameters C1 and C2 respectively. C1 and C2 are different parameters, hence there is no direct conflict. However, changes in C1 and C2 individually may lead to a common system impact resulting in indirect conflict. The user provided parameter dependency information maps the relationship between C1 and C2 to a common system impact. ConMit functionality or a helper ConMit xApp uses this mapping to declare that RIC CONTROL/POLICY parameters changed by xApp1 and xApp2 are in indirect conflict.

As such, the solution consists of the following steps:

- Before the xApps are put in operation, a user configures the parameter dependency information as input into the ConMit functionality or helper ConMit xApp. This dependency information is sent to the Near-RT RIC e.g. via O1 interface.
- xApps may send the changed parameters with E2AP and E2SM level details as part of E2 CONTROL REQUEST or E2 SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST or E2 GUIDANCE REQUEST to Near-RT RIC platform. These outputs do not need to be simultaneous to be considered as potential conflict.
- ConMit functionality or helper ConMit xApp checks the RAN parameters received from the xApps against the parameter dependency information. If the changed parameters by different xApps map to a common KPI impact, then the ConMit functionality or helper ConMit xApp declares it as a potential implicit conflict.
- The detected conflict (or absence thereof) is reported to the xApps by the Near-RT RIC platform. This report contains information on theimpacted system functions, optionally, potential conflicting RAN parameters of the conflicting xApps, etc.
- In addition to the pre-action conflict detection based on the user provided parameter dependency information, the ConMit functionality or helper ConMit xApp can further leverage post-action detection where certain KPIs can be monitored after the changes from xApps are applied to the E2 nodes, to further detect unacceptable/abnormal degradation and inter-dependence in xApp actions that are not detected in the pre-action conflict detection stage.

#### 5.2.5.3 Procedures

Two or more xApps send the E2 CONTROL REQUEST or E2 SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST or E2 GUIDANCE REQUEST to the Near-RT RIC platform. The ConMit functionality or the helper xApp decodes both the E2AP and E2SM level details in these messages. With the use of the user-provided parameter dependency information, if the ConMit functionality or the helper xApp map the changed parameters to a common system impact, then an indirect conflict is detected. This conflict detection report with relevant information is sent to the involved xApps.

#### 5.2.5.4 Evaluation

### 5.2.6 Solution #6 Pre-Action Detection of Potential E2-related Implicit Conflicts with user configured parameter dependency information

#### 5.2.6.1 Introduction

Key issue #1 for Conflict Detection (clause 5.1.1) describes the need for potential pre-action conflict detection by the Near-RT RIC platform for the specific case where the ConMit functionality in the Near-RT RIC platform may use both E2AP and E2SM level information.

- NOTE: As mentioned in clause 5.1.3.1, when xApps target different RAN control parameters, there may be conflicting impacts of their actions in terms of KPIs. This solution considers such scenarios as implicit conflicts.
The proposed solution (detailed in clauses 5.2.6.2 and 5.2.6.3) focuses on detecting the potential implicit conflicts pre-action (i.e. before RIC CONTROL REQUEST or RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST messages have been sent to the E2 nodes) based on the parameter dependency information provided by the user as an input to the ConMit functionality or a helper ConMit xApp.

This solution assumes that after E2AP level information {E2 Node Id, RAN Function ID, RIC Action Type} analysis, the ConMit Functinoality or ConMit helper xApp also performs E2SM level analysis during the RICARCH [i.1] defined xApp initiated E2 Subscription procedure ([i.1] clause 9.3.2.1), E2 Control procedure ([i.1] clause 9.3.2.4) and E2 Guidance request/response procedure ([i.1] clause 9.3.3.1).

- NOTE: Since the platform may not be provisioned to handle E2SM information, the solution proposes two alternatives for E2SM processing. In implementation option 1, the ConMit functionality in the platform handles E2SM processing. In implementation option 2, a ConMit helper xApp handles E2SM processing and subscribes to the E2 Node to collect required information.

#### 5.2.6.2 Functional Description

The solution assumes the following prerequisites:

- -	Parameter dependency information is provided to the ConMit functionality or ConMit helper xApp as an input.
- -	This information can be in the form of a linear lookup table or a dependency graph or any other preferred format, which captures the relationship between the RAN parameters in RIC CONTROL/POLICY service and their probable impact on a set of KPIs (see clause 4.2.1). This information can be continuously improved as and when new conflicts are discovered.
- -	A human user can prepare this dependency information. Potentially the dependency information can be prepared and continuously improved by an AI/ML system.
Overall Description: Before xApps are onboarded and put in operation, system/user can analyze and predict the inter-dependencies among the RAN parameters that may cause implicit KPI conflicts. The system/user provided parameter dependency information maps the RIC CONTROL/POLICY parameters to possible KPI impacts. If the ConMit functionality or a helper ConMit xApp has inter-parameter dependencies and possible KPI impacts for certain parameters, then it can detect potential implicit conflict after investigating E2SM and E2AP information from the xApp procedures, whenever these parameters are involved. As more conflicts between parameters are learned/discovered, the system/user can update the knowledge base.

ConMit functionality or a helper ConMit xApp uses this mapping to declare that RIC CONTROL/POLICY parameters changed by two or more xApps are in potential implicit conflict if the changes done by xApps map to common KPI impact. Since the detection of potential conflict takes place before the RIC CONTROL REQUEST or RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST is applied to the E2 nodes, this is a pre-action detection. The solution can be extended to detecting any number of indirect co-existing conflicts across two or more xApps.

For example, let us assume an xApp, xApp1, changes RIC CONTROL/POLICY RAN parameter C1. The parameter dependency information is provided to ConMit functionality or a helper ConMit xApp by mapping C1 to KPI1 & KPI2 meaning changes in C1 can possibly impact KPI1 & KPI2. Then, another xApp, xApp 2, change another RAN parameter C2 which is marked having impact to KPI1 and KPI2 as well. The ConMit functionality or a helper ConMit xApp uses this mapping to declares that RIC CONTROL/POLICY parameters changed by xApp1 and xApp2 are in potential implicit conflict. The potential pre-action conflict is declared, and post-action conflict detection will be triggered by either the Near-RT RIC framework or the involved xApps. This solution can be extended by mapping multiple RIC CONTROL/POLICY parameters to multiple sets of KPIs with possible weightage.

As such, the solution consists of the following steps:

- -	Before the xApps are put in operation, a user configures the parameter dependency information as input into the ConMit functionality or helper ConMit xApp. This dependency information is sent to the Near-RT RIC e.g. via O1 interface.
- -	xApps may send the changed parameters with E2AP and E2SM level details as part of E2 CONTROL REQUEST or E2 SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST or E2 GUIDANCE REQUEST to Near-RT RIC platform. These outputs do not need to be simultaneous to be considered as potential conflict.
- -	ConMit functionality or helper ConMit xApp checks the RAN parameters received from the xApps against the parameter dependency information. If the changed parameters by different xApps map to a common KPI impact, then the ConMit functionality or helper ConMit xApp declares it as a potential implicit conflict.
- -	The detected conflict (or absence thereof) is reported to the xApps by the Near-RT RIC platform. This report contains information on theimpacted system functions, optionally, potential conflicting RAN parameters of the conflicting xApps, etc.
- -	In addition to the pre-action conflict detection based on the user provided parameter dependency information, the ConMit functionality or helper ConMit xApp can further leverage post-action detection where certain KPIs can be monitored after the changes from xApps are applied to the E2 nodes, to further detect unacceptable/abnormal degradation and inter-dependence in xApp actions that are not detected in the pre-action conflict detection stage.

#### 5.2.6.3 Procedures

Two or more xApps send the E2 CONTROL REQUEST or E2 SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST or E2 GUIDANCE REQUEST to the Near-RT RIC platform. The ConMit functionality or the helper xApp decodes both the E2AP and E2SM level details in these messages. With the use of the user-provided parameter dependency information, if the ConMit functionality or the helper xApp map the changed parameters to a common KPI impact, then a potential implicit conflict is detected. This conflict detection report with relevant information is sent to the involved xApps.

#### 5.2.6.4 Evaluation

### 5.2.7 Solution #7 Pre-Action Detection of E2-related Implicit Conflicts with with user configured parameter dependency information

#### 5.2.7.1 Introduction

Key issue#3 for Conflict detection (clause 5.1.3) describes the possibility that implicit conflicts may be detected in pre-action also, i.e., before RIC CONTROL REQUEST or RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST messages have been sent to the E2 Node.

- NOTE: As mentioned in clause 5.1.3.1, when xApps target different RAN control parameters, there may be conflicting impacts of their actions in terms of KPIs. This solution considers such scenarios as implicit conflict
The proposed solution (detailed in clauses 5.2.7.2 and 5.2.7.3) focuses on detecting the implicit conflicts pre-action including both potential conficts and the actual conficts. The solution is based on the paramter dependency information provided as an input to the the ConMit functionality or a helper ConMit xApp which help to detect potential conflict pre-action. If a potential conflict is detected, ConMit functionality or a helper ConMit xApp invoke another algorithm (e.g. AI/ML or digital twin based) to predict the impacts on KPIs by changes done in the RAN parameters based on learning from historical data. This prediction can be performed by ConMit functionality or a helper ConMit xApp itself or by another service in Near-RT RIC or another xApp. Both the potential conflict detection and actual conflict detection thourgh KPI impact prediction are done in pre-action stage before the RIC CONTROL REQUEST or RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST messages have been sent to the E2 Node.

- NOTE: Since the platform may not be provisioned to handle E2SM information, the solution proposes two alternatives for E2SM processing. In implementation option 1, the ConMit functionality in the platform handles E2SM processing. In implementation option 2, a ConMit helper xApp handles E2SM processing and subscribes to the E2 Node to collect required information.

#### 5.2.7.2 Functional Description

The solution assumes the following prerequisites:

- -	Parameter dependency information is provided to the ConMit functionality or ConMit helper xApp as an input.
- -	This information can be in the form of a linear lookup table or a dependency graph or any other preferred format, which captures the relationship between the RAN parameters in RIC CONTROL/POLICY service and their predicted impact on a set of KPIs (see clause 4.2.1) This information can be continuously improved as and when new conflicts are discovered.
- -	A human user can prepare this dependency information. Potentially the dependency information can be prepared and continuously improved by an AI/ML system.
Overall Description: Before certain xApps are onboarded and put in operation, system/user can analyze and predict the inter-dependencies among the RAN parameters that may cause implicit KPI conflicts. The system/user provided parameter dependency information maps the RIC CONTROL/POLICY parameters to a common KPI impact. If the ConMit functionality or a helper ConMit xApp has inter-parameter dependencies and predicted KPI impacts for certain parameters, then it can detect potential implicit conflict after investigating E2SM and E2AP information from the xApp procedures, whenever these parameters are involved. As more conflicts between parameters are learned/discovered, the system/user can update the knowledge base.

The ConMit functionality or a helper ConMit xApp uses this mapping to declare that RIC CONTROL/POLICY parameters change by the xApps are in potential implicit conflict. After this pre-action potential implicit conflict detection, either the Near-RT RIC framework or the involved xApps invokes another algorithm to predict the impacts on KPIs by the changes done.

For example, let us assume the prediction algorithm predicts that the change in RIC CONTROL/POLICY parameter C1 from xApp1 will degrade KPI1 and improve KPI2, however the changes from xApp2 on parameter C2 will not affect KPI1 but degrade KPI2. The ConMit functionality or a helper ConMit xApp immediately declare it as implicit conflict. Since the detection of potential conflict takes place before the RIC CONTROL REQUEST or RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST is applied to the E2 nodes, this is a pre-action detection. The solution can be extended to any number of xApps.

As such, the solution consists of the following steps:

- -	Before the xApps are put in operation, a user configures the parameter dependency information as input into the ConMit functionality or helper ConMit xApp. This dependency information is sent to the Near-RT RIC e.g. via O1 interface.
- -	xApps may send the changed parameters with E2AP and E2SM level details as part of E2 CONTROL REQUEST or E2 SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST or E2 GUIDANCE REQUEST to Near-RT RIC platform. These outputs do not need to be simultaneous to be considered as potential conflict.
- -	ConMit functionality or helper ConMit xApp checks the RAN parameters received from the xApps against the parameter dependency information. If the changed parameters by different xApps map to the common KPI impacts, then the ConMit functionality or helper ConMit xApp declares it as potential implicit conflict.
- -	Another algorithm or AIML model is invoked bythe ConMit functionality or helper ConMit xApp to predict the exact KPI impacts by the changed parameters.
- -	If a KPI impact conflict is detected through the prediction, the ConMit functionality or helper ConMit xApp report the detected conflict (or absence thereof) to the xApps. This report contains information on theimpacted system functions, optionally, potential conflicting RAN parameters of the conflicting xApps, etc.
- NOTE: This information may then be used for subsequent conflict resolution and avoidance.

#### 5.2.7.3 Procedures

Two or more xApps send the E2 CONTROL REQUEST or E2 SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST or E2 GUIDANCE REQUEST to the Near-RT RIC platform. The ConMit functionality or the helper xApp decodes both the E2AP and E2SM level details in these messages. With the use of the user-provided parameter dependency information, if the ConMit functionality or the helper xApp map the changed parameters to a common KPI impact, then a potential implicit conflict is detected. Furthermore, with the use of another algorithm, if the ConMit functionality and the helper xApp predict the exact KPI impact, then actual implicit conflict is detected. This conflict detection report with relevant information is sent to the involved xApps.

#### 5.2.7.4 Evaluation

## 5.3 Solutions-to-Key Issues Mapping

|  | Key Issue |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Solution | #1 | #2 | #3 |
| #1 | yes |  |  |
| #2 |  | yes |  |
| #3 |  | yes |  |
| #4 |  | yes |  |
| #5 |  | yes |  |
| #6 | yes |  |  |
| #7 |  | yes |  |

# 6 Conflict Resolution

## 6.1 Key Issues

### 6.1.1 Key Issue #1 Resolution of E2-related Conflicts

#### 6.1.1.1 Description

This key issue addresses the problem of E2-related conflict resolution between xApps under the assumption that direct, indirect, or implicit conflicts have been detected and the conflicting xApps have been identified.

The resolutions may comprise the following:

- xApps may reach a “resolution agreement” themselves directly or indirectly facilitated by conflict mitigation (ConMit) functionality in the platform.
- ConMit may compute E2AP or E2SM level agreement for the xApps. This agreement is later enforced by ConMit.

#### 6.1.1.2 Impacted Use-Cases

void

#### 6.1.1.3 Considerations

Solutions for E2-related conflict resolution may consider the following:

- Resolution may take place both pre-action and post-action depending on when the conflict is detected.
- A general solution may work for all conflict types or different solutions may be provided for different conflict types. For example, a solution may address direct conflicts but not indirect and/or implicit conflicts.
- E2AP level agreements: For example, xApps may agree not to use certain RIC service types (control, policy etc.) for the same E2 Node and/or RAN Function.
- E2SM level agreements: For example, xApps may agree not to access certain RAN parameter(s) or a similar agreement may be reached in case of RAN resource conflicts.
- E2AP level guidance agreement: xApps may agree to access an E2 Node and/or RAN Function only after guidance by the platform.
- E2SM level guidance agreement:  xApps may agree to access certain RAN parameters or RAN resources only after guidance by the platform.
- E2SM level negotiation: xApps may negotiate and reach an agreement on certian RAN Parameters, RAN KPIs, and/or RAN Resources. This may allow them to “manage” their conflicts.
- Agreements may be recorded/saved for future conflict avoidance and/or during a new conflict resolution.

#### 6.1.1.4 Open issues

Following open issues are relevant:

- ConMit may facilitate inter-xApp resolution, but it may not be able to resolve conflicts by itself at E2SM level without xApp-specific E2SM information.
- Can ConMit force conflict resolution and an agreement, e.g., by occasionally denying E2 Subscription or E2 Control requests by xApps?

## 6.2 Solutions

### 6.2.1 Solution #1 Resolution of Direct Parameter Conflicts between xApps at E2SM level

#### 6.2.1.1 Introduction

A direct parameter conflict may occur between two or more xApps if they request access to the same set of RAN parameters in the same E2 Node. Some consideration for solutions to this type of conflicts are mentioned in clause 6.1.2.3.

As mentioned in clause 6.1.2.3, one possible resolution may be to prioritize one xApp’s E2 Subscription among all others so that only the xApp that has the priority accesses the RAN function/service and changes the parameter. Note that, such a resolution requires an E2SM level agreement between the xApps. However, such resolutions may not always be possible, e.g., if the objectives of an xApp that is not able to make RAN parameter changes are compromised beyond an acceptable level. Also, this type of approach may lead to sub-optimal performance of the network.

Another approach may be for xApps to directly negotiate and reach an E2SM level agreement over the values of a certain RAN parameter via inter-xApp communication. However, in a multi-vendor environment, when different xApps may be produced by different vendors, xApps may not reach such an agreement. As mentioned in clause 6.1.2.4, such direct inter-xApp functionality may not be supported for all xApps. Furthermore, for a large number of xApps, this may not be technically feasible within the Near-RT RIC control time-granularity.

So, a solution is necessary to resolve direct parameter conflicts among xApps at E2SM level without requiring direct inter-xApp communication for negotiation. The proposed solution is “indirect” in the sense that the conflict mitigation functionality in the platform proposes a compromised/common value of the RAN parameter to the xApps (e.g., within an E2 Guidance Modification message [i.1]). The proposed solution, which can then be configured in the E2 Node, represents a value of the RAN parameter serving the common interests of the xApps. Such common value may be calculated in various ways as shown in the examples in clause 6.2.1.2.

- NOTE: The common value may be computed by the platform itself if it is capable of handling E2SM information. However, to address open issues 1 and 4 in key issue#1 clause 6.1.1.4, an option is to avoid processing E2SM specific information in the platform ConMit functionality directly. Instead, a “helper” ConMit xApp may be used for this purpose. The conflicting xApps send E2SM information to the platform which forwards the same to the helper xApp over the Near-RT RIC internal APIs.  It is assumed that the helper xApp understands all E2SM specific information, but conflicting xApps’ business logic is not exposed to the helper xApp. After calculation of the common parameter, the helper xApp sends the results back to the platform which forwards them to the xApps. The same helper xApp may also be used to configure the common RAN parameter in the RAN on behalf of the xApps. Whether such an xApp and the required APIs are technically feasible is an important consideration. The same applies to privacy and security issues related to E2SM information exchanges.

#### 6.2.1.2 Functional Description

The solution assumes the following:

The xApps may communicate to the platform their preference regarding the RAN parameter. This preference is used to compute a common value for that parameter taking interests of all the xApps into account. Below we explain the solution with an example of a conflict between two xApps. The idea can be extended to any number of xApps. Below we provide two examples showing how the common value may be computed.

##### 6.2.1.2.1  Example 1: Common Value Calculation Method 1

In this method, the xApps send their preferred values of the parameter and the common value is calculated by averaging those values. For example, let us assume that xApp1 and xApp2 want to access and change the same RAN parameter p in the same E2 node. xApp1 wants to set the value at p1 while xApp2 wants to set the value at p2. After both send this value, the common value is calculated as the average p = pc = (p1 + p2)/2. This solution is simple and fast, but not optimal.

##### 6.2.1.2.2  Example 2: Preferred Common Value Calculation Method 2

In this method, instead of sending values of the parameter, the xApps send utility functions. A utility function maps the “goodness” of a parameter value to a predefined scale, e.g., [0:1] scale. So, when different xApps send their utility functions, the common resolved value of the parameter is the one for which the product of the utility functions is maximized. This is called Nash Social Welfare Solution. Note that the utility functions do not expose the business-logic of the xApps but rather their “interests”.

#### 6.2.1.3 Procedures

##### 6.2.1.3.1  Implementation 1 (Platform handles E2SM):

| Use Case Step | Description of the Step |
| --- | --- |
| Goal | ConMit functionality wants to resolve direct parameter conflicts at E2SM level among xApps |
| Actors and Roles | ConMit functionality xApps |
| Assumptions | There are at least 2 xApps and 1 ConMit functionality available. There is at least 1 conflicting RAN parameter. The ConMit functionality understands E2SM specific information, or it uses a helper xApp to process such an information. |
| Pre-conditions | ConMit functionality is authorized to resolve conflicts among xApps. ConMit may request xApps for information which is necessary to resolve the conflict. |
| Begins when | Conflict detection: A direct RAN parameter has been identified and the xApps have been identified to take part in conflict resolution at the E2SM level. |
| Step 1 (M) | The ConMit requests xApps to send their preference over the parameter. |
| Step 2 (M) | The xApps computer their preferences The xApps send preferences to ConMit functionality. |
| Step 3 (M) | The ConMit functionality calculates the final common value of the parameter. The ConMit functionality sends the computed value to the xApps. |
| Ends when | ConMit records the agreement |
| Exceptions | N/A |
| Post conditions | N/A |

##### 6.2.1.3.2  Implementation 2 (Helper xApp handles E2SM):

| Use Case Step | Description of the Step |
| --- | --- |
| Goal | ConMit functionality wants to resolve direct parameter conflicts at E2SM level among xApps |
| Actors and Roles | ConMit functionality xApps  helper xApp |
| Assumptions | There are at least 2 xApps, 1 ConMit functionality, and 1 helper xApp available. There is at least 1 conflicting RAN parameter. The ConMit functionality does not understand/handle E2SM specific information. It uses a helper xApp to process E2SM. |
| Pre-conditions | ConMit functionality is authorized to resolve conflicts among xApps. The helper xApp is authorized to process E2SM information and compute common value (agreement) of the RAN parameter. ConMit may request xApps for information which is necessary to resolve the conflict. |
| Begins when | Conflict detection and resolution pre-processing: A direct RAN parameter has been identified and the xApps have been identified to take part in conflict resolution at the E2SM level. |
| Step 1 (M) | The ConMit functionality requests xApps to send their preference regarding the parameter. |
| Step 2 (M) | The xApps compute their preference (either parameter value or the utility function) The xApps send these values to ConMit functionality. |
| Step 3 (M) | The ConMit functionality forwards the preference to the helper xApp The helper xApp computes the common value (i.e., the agreement) The helper xApp sends ConMit the common value |
| Step 4 (M) | ConMit forwards the common value to the xApps |
| Ends when | ConMit records the agreement |
| Post conditions | N/A |

#### 6.2.1.4 Evaluation

The solution requires an enabling detection solution that can identify the RAN parameters and the conflicting xApps. The solution also requires an enabling conflict avoidance solution, i.e., a solution addressing the eventual configuration of the common parameter p in the E2 Node and maintenance/enforcement of the resolution agreement (including failure cases). These mechanisms may be enabled by solutions in clauses 5.2 and 7.2 of the TR.  To address open issues 1 and 4 in key issue#1 clause 6.1.1.4, general solutions may be added in conflict avoidance (clause 7.2) key issues.

The solution addresses the following consideration and open issues in clause 6.1.1:

## 6.3 Solutions-to-Key Issues Mapping

|  | Key Issue |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Solution | #1 | #Y | #Z |
| #1 | yes | - |  |
| #Y | - |  |  |
| #Z | - |  |  |

# 7 Conflict Avoidance

## 7.1 Key Issues

### 7.1.1 Key Issue #1 Avoidance of E2-related Conflicts

#### 7.1.1.1 Description

This key issue addresses the problem of E2-related conflict avoidance between xApps. Conflict avoidance takes place pre-action, i.e., before RIC Control Request or RIC Suscription Request messages have been sent to the E2 Node. Note that, conflict detection and resolution methods/solutions may be seen as part of the overall conflict avoidance goal.

Currently basic conflict avoidance functionality is enabled by a set of “E2 Guidance” APIs, while conflict detection and resolution may involve methods and processing required to complete this functionality. In more detail, the Near-RT RIC ARCH specification [i.1] already provides the following functionalities:

- Conflict avoidance may be enabled by the ConMit functionality in the platform as an “E2 Guidance” service. This service consists of the following:
This key issue addresses further (possibly general) requirements and improvements for E2 Guidance mechanism in addition to solutions for conflict detection and resolution in clauses 5.2 and 6.2, respectively.  Following are examples of aspects that may be addressed:

- Improvements in requirements for E2 Guidance. What may the API messages contain, and do we need to extend these APIs?
- How to avoid excessive and unnecessary use of E2 Guidance by xApps?
- How to handle failure cases of conflict resolution?
- How to ensure xApp security and privacy during E2 Guidance procedures?
- The use of E2 Guidance for avoiding previously detected and resolved conflicts. How such agreements should be maintained or enforced for conflict avoidance?
- What kind of external or internal events and messages may lead to triggering of E2 Guidance (or conflict avoidance) in Near-RT RIC?

#### 7.1.1.2 Impacted Use-Cases

Void

#### 7.1.1.3 Considerations

Solutions for conflict avoidance may consider the following:

- A solution may enhance the above-mentioned “E2 Guidance” service but may not provide any solutions or methods for conflict detection and/or resolution tasks. Enhancements may support or refer to solutions for detection and resolution in clauses 5.2 and 6.2.
- An xApp may use E2 Guidance (i.e., trigger conflict avoidance) to request if the platform detects a potential conflict. This request may contain E2AP and/or E2SM specific information.
- ConMit functionality may trigger E2 Guidance (e.g., by issuing E2 Guidance Modification) if it detects a potential conflict between xApps. This guidance may be at E2AP and/or E2SM level.
- Resolved Conflicts: Conflict avoidance may consider previously detected and resolved conflicts.
- xApps may consider existing conflict resolution “agreements” before requesting guidance from the ConMit functionality in the platform.
- Upon receiving a guidance request, ConMit functionality may consider previously detected and/or resolved conflicts between xApps before providing guidance to xApps for conflict avoidance.
- New Conflicts: A guidance request by an xApp may trigger conflict detection and/or resolution by the ConMit functionality as part of the above-mentioned “conflict mitigation” processing.

#### 7.1.1.4 Open issues

Following open issues are relevant:

- ConMit functionality may facilitate conflict avoidance, but it may not be able to provide required guidance at E2SM level without xApp-specific E2SM information.
- May the platform enforce an existing conflict resolution agreement, e.g., by occasionally denying E2 Subscription or E2 Control requests by xApps?
- May conflict avoidance involve inter-xApp communication?

## 7.2 Solutions

### 7.2.1 Solution #1 xApp based E2SM level service conflict avoidance

#### 7.2.1.1 Introduction

Solution #3 for Conflict Detection (clause 5.2.3) provides a mechanism based on Near-RT RIC platform detecting potential direct conflicts between 2 or more xApps using E2AP level information and then using E2 Guidance RICAPI to request identified xApp to perform E2SM level analysis.

Key Issue #1 for Conflict Resolution (clause 6.1.1) describes the possibility that “xApps may reach a “resolution agreement” themselves directly or indirectly facilitated by conflict mitigation (ConMit) functionality in the platform”.

Key Issue #1 for Conflict Avoidance (clause 7.1.1) describes the role of avoidance as “pre-action, i.e., before RIC Control Request or RIC Suscription Request messages have been sent to the E2 Node” and assumes the possibility that “ConMit functionality may facilitate conflict avoidance, but it may not be able to provide required guidance at E2SM level without xApp-specific E2SM information”, “May conflict avoidance involve inter-xApp communication?” and “How to protect xApps’ business logic during conflict avoidance?”.

This solution assumes that a list of xApps has been identified that are in potential direct conflict with each other and that they may use either inter-xApp message exchange or using the Conflict Mitigation functionality in the platform to route messages between xApps to negotiate a mutually acceptable partition of the E2 Node declared supported E2SM level services.  The objective for this negotiation is to agree on which xApps may use which E2SM level service without risk of future direct conflicts.

At an E2SM level, direct conflicts are essentially due to 2 or more xApps attempting to use exactly the same E2SM specific RIC service.

For example:

- -	A POLICY service using E2SM-RC on a given E2 node.  An E2AP level potential direct conflict would exist in this case if different xApps are requesting subscriptions with the same E2AP level information (same E2 Node, same RAN Function, same RIC Action Type) but with different Styles, Actions and/or RAN Parameters.  If the xApps could reach an agreement on which E2SM level service are to be used by which xApp then E2SM level conflicts would be avoided.

#### 7.2.1.2 Functional Description

Solution #1 for Conflict Detection (clause 5.2.1) describes how the Near-RT RIC platform ([i.1] clause 6.2.3) would use E2AP level information from a requesting xApp and compare this with similar information obtained from other xApps from previous E2 Subscription, E2 Control and/or E2 Guidance requests.  The result would be a “E2AP level” potential conflict detection.

Solution #2 and #3 for Conflict Detection describes how E2SM level information may be used to reduce the list of identified xApps in potential conflict using the Near-RT RIC platform (clause 5.2.2) and xApps (clause 5.2.3) respectively.

In this solution the Conflict Mitigation functionality in the Near-RT RIC platform may request the set of identified xApps to initiate a Conflict Avoidance negotiation.  The proposed avoidance process would focus on negotiation between xApps to determine a mutually exclusive subset of the E2 Node supported RAN Function services.

Once the negotiation process terminates the xApps would respond to the Conflict Mitigation functionality in the platform to indicate success or failure.  The platform may save the oucome of the negotiation and use it for future reference to Conflict Mitigation.

The platform may also issue a unique “Negotiation Key” to xApps which may then be used in future requests (E2 Guidance, E2 Subscription, E2 Control) to avoid un-necessary repetition of successive conflict detection and conflict avoidance events.

Finally, the platform may also request an xApp that was party to a previous negotiation to validate whether or not another xApp is acting in compliance with the agreement.

#### 7.2.1.3 Procedures

For the E2SM Level conflict avoidance process, RICARCH [i.1] clause 9.3.3.1 (E2 guidance request/response procedure) step 3 “Near-RT RIC platform processes request” and clause 9.3.3.5 (E2 Guidance modification procedure) step 1 “Near-RT RIC platform identifies affected xApps and performs conflict mitigation processing” may be used to perform both conflict detection and conflict avoidance.  These procedures would need to be modified so that the Near-RT RIC platform may seek E2SM level analysis and avoidance negotiation from 2 or more xApps.

The following extensions are proposed to enable E2SM level conflict mitigation processing in xApps:

- -	E2 Guidance request/response and E2 Guidance Modification procedures extended:
- -	E2 Related procedures extended to support xApps using assigned “Negotiation Key” in request messages to claim successful negotiation has already been performed

#### RICARCH 9.3.3.1 E2 Guidance request/response procedure

The purpose of the xApp initiated E2 Guidance request/response API procedure in the Near-RT RIC is to allow authorized xApps to obtain guidance from the Near-RT RIC platform (with the conflict mitigation functionality) prior to initiating an action.

Guidance from Near-RT RIC platform may include:

- -	Indication on whether or not the xApp proposed E2 Related API message or series of messages may result in a conflict with E2 related API messages from other xApps;
- -	Recommendations on how the proposed E2 Related message or series of messages should be modified to avoid conflict;
- -	Modification of previous guidance to other xApps and/or Near-RT RIC platform internal processes.
This procedure is based on the following assumptions:

- -	xApp may use E2 Related API to obtain guidance from Near-RT RIC platform to resolve potential conflicts prior to initiating a RIC function procedure;
- -	(NEW)Near-RT RIC platform may initiate a conflict mitigation avoidance negotiation process between two or more xApps prior to responding to xApp;
- -	xApp may use Near-RT RIC platform response in a subsequent procedure (i.e., for a RIC Functional Procedure).
This procedure is initiated by an xApp using E2 Related API: E2 Guidance request. The following outcomes are considered:

- -	Near-RT RIC Platform provides guidance to requesting xApp using E2 Related API: E2 Guidance response;
- -	Near-RT RIC Platform provides modified guidance to another xApp and/or its internal processes.

| Use Case Stage | Evolution / Specification |
| --- | --- |
| Goal | xApp initiation of Conflict Mitigation guidance. |
| Actors and Roles | xApp: Originator of Conflict Mitigation guidance request; (NEW)Other xApp(s): One or more other xApps identified by Near-RT RIC platform as being in potential conflict with originator xApp Near-RT RIC platform, with the following functionalities: Database; Conflict mitigation. |
| Assumptions | Near-RT RIC platform has access to sufficient information to both detect a potential conflict and take a decision on an optimal mitigation solution; Near-RT RIC platform may initiate guidance towards other xApp as an optional addition response to Guidance Request. |
| Pre-conditions | xApp has been authorized to request guidance from Near-RT RIC platform for conflict mitigation; xApp has been assigned xApp ID. |
| Begins when | xApp determines need to request guidance from Near-RT RIC platform for conflict mitigation. |
| Step 1 (M) | xApp sends E2 Related API E2 Guidance Request to Near-RT RIC platform. |
| Step 2 (M) | Near-RT RIC platform collects related information. |
| Step 3A (M) | (MODIFIED) Near-RT RIC platform performs conflict mitigation detection |
|  | [ALT] Remaining step 3 events are executed if Near-RT RIC platform detects a potential conflict |
| Step 3B (O) | (NEW) Near-RT RIC platform requests identified xApps to perform conflict mitigation avoidance |
| Step 3C (O) | (NEW) Identified xApps uses either direct or indirect messaging to negotiate to obtain a mutually acceptable conflict avoidance agreement |
| Step 3D (O) | (NEW) Identified xApps respond to Near-RT RIC platform with outcome of negotiation |
| Step 3E (O) | (NEW) Near-RT RIC platform validates negotiated agreement and stores outcome. |
| Step 4-5 (O) | Near-RT RIC platform may signal conflict and/or provide guidance to internal processes and/or other xApps (see clause 9.3.3.5). (NEW)Message may contain a “negotiation key” that may be used in future requests from xApp |
| Step 6 (M) | Near-RT RIC platform sends E2 Related API E2 Guidance response to xApp. (NEW)Message may contain a “negotiation key” that may be used in future requests from xApp |
| Ends with | xApp continues processing using guidance response. |

#### RICARCH 9.3.3.5 E2 Guidance modification procedure

The purpose of the E2 Guidance modification procedure is to allow Near-RT RIC platform to signal a modified guidance to the xApp, which can be triggered by the Near-RT RIC platform’s internal process (e.g., xApp subscription management), or by a message from the other xApps or external interfaces.

The guidance may also be used for Near-RT RIC platform internal purposes.

| Use Case Stage | Evolution / Specification |
| --- | --- |
| Goal | Near-RT RIC platform indicates guidance to an xApp without request from the xApp. |
| Actors and Roles | xApp Near-RT RIC platform, with the following functionalities: Database Conflict mitigation External entity (e.g., E2 Node) |
| Assumptions | Near-RT RIC platform is capable of collecting related information, and generating proper guidance for an xApp. |
| Pre-conditions | Message from xApp, message from external interfaces, or Near-RT RIC platform’s internal process triggers conflict mitigation in Near-RT RIC platform. |
| Step 1A (M) | (MODIFIED) Near-RT RIC platform identifies performs conflict mitigation detection.   This step may be avoided for the case of a message from xApp that contains an indication that the request is compliant with a previous negotiated agreement.  Near-RT RIC platform may request an xApp that was previously party to a negotiated agreement to perform an audit of another xApp’s request. |
|  | [ALT] Remaining step 1 events are executed if Near-RT RIC platform detects a potential conflict |
| Step 1B (O) | (NEW) Near-RT RIC platform requests identified xApps to perform conflict mitigation avoidance |
| Step 1C (O) | (NEW) Identified xApps uses either direct or indirect messaging to negotiate to obtain a mutually acceptable conflict avoidance agreement |
| Step 1D (O) | (NEW) Identified xApps respond to Near-RT RIC platform with outcome of negotiation |
| Step 1E (O) | (NEW) Near-RT RIC platform validates negotiated agreement and stores outcome. |
| Step 2 (O) | Near-RT RIC platform may provide guidance to the affected xApps using E2 Guidance modification message.  (NEW)Message may contain a “negotiation key” that may be used in future requests from xApp |
| Step 3 (O) | Near-RT RIC platform may also use the guidance for internal purposes. |

#### 7.2.1.4 Evaluation

This solution offers a sound solution for both E2AP and E2SM level direct conflict avoidance, allows xApp to negotiate without revealing business logic, supports a solution to avoid repetition of the conflict avoidance process and supports a solution to audit claims from xApps to be compliant with previous negotiated agreements.

The solution avoids the need to align Near-RT RIC platform support of each E2SM with the versions used by each xApp.  It does however rely on xApps supporting the appropriate E2SM versions.

## 7.3 Solutions-to-Key Issues Mapping

|  | Key Issue |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Solution | #1 | #Y | #Z |
| #1 | yes | - |  |
| #Y | - |  |  |
| #Z | - |  |  |

# 8 Conclusions

## 8.1 Conflict Detection

### 8.1.1 Key issues and potential solutions

All key issues are addressed by the proposed solutions as shown in clause 5.3. However, the current Near-RT RIC ARCH specification [i.1] and Near-RT RIC APIs only partially support the solutions.

### 8.1.2 Solution requirements

The following prelimanary requirements can be derived:

- Solution #1 and #2 described in clauses 5.2.1 and 5.2.2, respectively, are both supported by existing signalling. However, Solution #2 further assumes that the Near-RT RIC platform may inspect E2SM information contained in E2 Subscription Request, E2 Control Request, and E2 Guidance Request/Response messages initiated by xApps.
- Solution #3 requires that, when the ConMit functionality inspects the E2AP information contained in the above-mentioned messages by an xApp, it may suspect a potential conflict with another xApp. The ConMit functionality may then request xApps to perform the E2SM level analysis, thereby avoioding the need for the platform to do the same.
- Solution #4 requires that the platform may seek further information from the xApps after identifying a potential conflict. Alternatively, Solution #4 may be triggered by the xApp which detects a potential conflict with another xApp.
- Solution #4 requires that either the platform or a special helper xApp may collect data from the RAN for conflict discovery/detection.
- Solution #4 requires that the platform or a special helper xApp has ability/functionality to perform AI/ML based data analysis to detect potential indirect/implicit conflicts between xApps.
- Solutions #5, #6, and #7 assume that a certain "dependency information" containing information about couplings between RAN parameters, resources, and KPIs is generated. Given this information, the ConMit functionality can then enhance its conflict mitigation processing. The dependency information can be provided to the ConMit using, e.g., the O1 interface.
- Solution #6 assumes that along with the dependency information, ConMit or a helper xApp may further use AI/ML methods to predict impacts of the conflicting RAN parameters on the KPIs and stability of the network.

## 8.2 Conflict Resolution

### 8.2.1 Key Issues and potential solutions

All key issues are addressed by the proposed solutions as shown in clause 6.3. However, the current near-RT RIC ARCH specification [i.1] and Near-RT RIC APIs only partially support the proposed solutions.

### 8.2.2 Solution requirements

The following prelimanary requirements can be derived:

- Solution #1 assumes that, before resolution of direct parameter conflicts is triggered, conflicts at E2SM level (parameter level) have already been discovered and attemps at conflict avoidance by e.g., using Solution #1 in clause 7.2.1, have not been successful.
- Solution #1 described in clauses 6.2.1 requires that ConMit requests the xApps for their preference about the RAN parameter(s) in conflict and computes a "common value" on behalf of the xApps. This solution also assumes an intelligent/computing mechanism inside the ConMit or a helper xApp to compute such a common value by taking into xApp preferences.

## 8.3 Conflict Avoidance

### 8.3.1 Key Issues and potential solutions

All key issues are addressed by the proposed solutions as shown in clause 7.3. However, the current near-RT RIC ARCH specification [i.1] and Near-RT RIC APIs only partially support the solutions.

### 8.3.2 Solution requirements

The following prelimanary requirements can be derived:

- Solution #1 assumes that a list of xApps in conflict with each other has been generated. Solutions in clause 5 may be used for this purpose depending on the type of conflict.
- Solution #1 works on the basis of further conflict avoidance by orthogonalizing E2SM level services usage within the given E2 Node by the xApps, assuming that such a partition or separation is possible and agreeable to the involved xApps.
- Solution #1 requires either inter-xApp message exchange or using the ConMit functionality in the platform to route messages between xApps to negotiate a mutually acceptable partition of the E2 Node declared supported E2SM level services.
- NOTE: Solution #1 may serve as a pre-requisite for conflict resolution solutions in clause 6. In more detail, the failure of an avoidance agreement between xApps means that conflicts between xApps cannot be avoided, and an intervention by the ConMit functionality is required. Solution #1 in clause 6.2.1, e.g., resolves the direct conflict in that the platform computes a common value for the conflicting RAN parameter itself.


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG3.TS.E2AP-R004-v08.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG3.TS.E2AP-R004-v08.00 O-RAN Work Group 3 (Near-RT RIC and E2 Interface)   E2 Application Protocol (E2AP)"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms

For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1] apply.

> NOTE:	A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1], O-RAN WG3.TS.E2GAP [2], and O-RAN WG1.TS.OAD [27].
> NOTE:	An E2AP Elementary Procedure is a unit of interaction between the Near-RT RIC and an E2 Node. An EP consists of an initiating message and possibly a response message. Two kinds of EPs are used:
> NOTE:	Messages belonging to the same procedure use the same RIC Request ID. The RIC Request ID is determined by the initiating peer of a RIC Functional Procedure.
> NOTE:	Messages belonging to the same procedure use the same Transaction ID. The Transaction ID is determined by the initiating peer of a Global Procedure (Near-RT RIC or E2 Node).

## 3.2 Symbols

Void.

## 3.3 Abbreviations

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1] apply.

In addition, the abbreviations defined in O-RAN WG1.TS.OAD [18] and the following also apply:

> NOTE:	An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1] and O-RAN WG1.TS.OAD [27].
- **EP**: Elementary Procedure

# 4 General

## 4.1 Procedure specification principles

The principle for specifying the procedure logic is to specify the functional behaviour of the terminating node exactly and completely. Any rule that specifies the behaviour of the originating node shall be possible to be verified with information that is visible within the system.

The following specification principles have been applied for the procedure text in clause 8:

- -	The procedure text discriminates between:

## 4.2 Forwards and backwards compatibility

The forwards and backwards compatibility of the protocol is assured by mechanism where all current and future messages, and IEs or groups of related IEs, include ID and criticality fields that are coded in a standard format that will not be changed in the future. These parts can always be decoded regardless of the standard version.

## 4.3 Specification notations

For the purposes of the present document, the following notations apply:

- **Procedure**: When referring to an Elementary Procedure (EP) in the present document the Procedure Name is written with the first letters in each word in upper case characters followed by the word "procedure", e.g. Handover Preparation procedure.
- **Message**: When referring to a message in the present document the MESSAGE NAME is written with all letters in upper case characters followed by the word "message", e.g. HANDOVER REQUEST message.
- **IE**: When referring to an Information Element (IE) in the present document the Information Element Name is written with the first letters in each word in upper case characters and all letters in Italic font followed by the abbreviation "IE", e.g. E-RAB ID IE.
- **Value of an IE**: When referring to the value of an Information Element (IE) in the present document the "Value" is written as it is specified in the present document enclosed by quotation marks, e.g. "Value".

# 5 E2AP Services

## 5.1 E2AP procedure modules

The E2 interface E2AP procedures are divided into two modules as follows:

- 1.	RIC Functional Procedures;
- 2.	Global Procedures.
The RIC functional procedures module contains procedures used to pass application specific messages between Near-RT RIC applications and a target RAN Function in an E2 node as specified in O-RAN WG3.TS.E2GAP [2].

The Global Procedures module contains procedures that are not directly related to a specific application.

## 5.2 Parallel transactions

Parallel transactions, that is, multiple ongoing E2AP procedures related to the same Application and E2 node, are supported.

# 6 Services expected from signalling transport

The signalling connection shall provide in sequence delivery of E2AP messages. E2AP shall be notified if the signalling connection breaks.

# 7 Functions of E2AP

The functions of E2AP are described in O-RAN WG3.TS.E2GAP [2].

# 8 E2AP procedures

## 8.1 Elementary procedures

In the Tables 8.1-1 and 8.1-2, all EPs are divided into Class 1 and Class 2 EPs.

| Initiated by | Elementary Procedure | Initiating Message | Successful Outcome | Unsuccessful Outcome |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Initiated by | Elementary Procedure | Initiating Message | Response message |  |
| Near-RT RIC | RIC Subscription | RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST | RIC SUBSCRIPTION RESPONSE | RIC SUBSCRIPTION FAILURE |
| Near-RT RIC | RIC Subscription Delete | RIC SUBSCRIPTION DELETE REQUEST | RIC SUBSCRIPTION DELETE RESPONSE | RIC SUBSCRIPTION DELETE FAILURE |
| Near-RT RIC | RIC Subscription Modification | RIC SUBSCRIPTION MODIFICATION REQUEST | RIC SUBSCRIPTION MODIFICATION RESPONSE | RIC SUBSCRIPTION MODIFICATION FAILURE |
| E2 Node | RIC Subscription Modification Required | RIC SUBSCRIPTION MODIFICATION REQUIRED | RIC SUBSCRIPTION MODIFICATION CONFIRM | RIC SUBSCRIPTION MODIFICATION REFUSE |
| Near-RT RIC | RIC Subscription State Control | RIC SUBSCRIPTION STATE CONTROL REQUEST | RIC SUBSCRIPTION STATE CONTROL RESPONSE | RIC SUBSCRIPTION STATE CONTROL FAILURE |
| Near-RT RIC | RIC Subscription Audit | RIC SUBSCRIPTION AUDIT REQUEST | RIC SUBSCRIPTION AUDIT RESPONSE | RIC SUBSCRIPTION AUDIT FAILURE |
| E2 Node | RIC Assistance | RIC ASSISTANCE REQUEST | RIC ASSISTANCE RESPONSE | RIC ASSISTANCE FAILURE |
| Near-RT RIC | RIC Control | RIC CONTROL REQUEST | RIC CONTROL ACKNOWLEDGE | RIC CONTROL FAILURE |
| Near-RT RIC | RIC Query | RIC QUERY REQUEST | RIC QUERY RESPONSE | RIC QUERY FAILURE |
| Near-RT RIC | RIC Service Load Status | RIC SERVICE LOAD STATUS REQUEST | RIC SERVICE LOAD STATUS RESPONSE | RIC SERVICE LOAD STATUS FAILURE |
| E2 Node | E2 Setup | E2 SETUP REQUEST | E2 SETUP RESPONSE | E2 SETUP FAILURE |
| E2 Node | RIC Service Update | RIC SERVICE UPDATE | RIC SERVICE UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE | RIC SERVICE UPDATE FAILURE |
| E2 Node | E2 Node Configuration Update | E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE | E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE | E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE FAILURE |
| Near-RT RIC | E2 Connection Update | E2 CONNECTION UPDATE | E2 CONNECTION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE | E2 CONNECTION UPDATE FAILURE |
| Near-RT RIC or E2 Node | Reset | RESET REQUEST | RESET RESPONSE |  |
| Near-RT RIC or E2 Node | E2 Removal | E2 REMOVAL REQUEST | E2 REMOVAL RESPONSE | E2 REMOVAL FAILURE |
| Near-RT RIC | E2 Resource Status | E2 RESOURCE STATUS REQUEST | E2 RESOURCE STATUS RESPONSE | E2 RESOURCE STATUS FAILURE |

| Initiated by | Elementary Procedure | Initiating Message |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Near-RT RIC | RIC Assistance Indication | RIC ASSISTANCE INDICATION |
| E2 Node | RIC Assistance Halt | RIC ASSISTANCE HALT |
| E2 Node | RIC Indication | RIC INDICATION |
| Near-RT RIC | RIC Service Query | RIC SERVICE QUERY |
| E2 Node | RIC Subscription Delete Required | RIC SUBSCRIPTION DELETE REQUIRED |
| E2 Node | RIC Service Load Update | RIC SERVICE LOAD UPDATE |
| E2 Node or Near-RT RIC | Error Indication | ERROR INDICATION |
| E2 Node | E2 Resource Status Update | E2 RESOURCE STATUS UPDATE |

## 8.2 RIC Functional procedures

### 8.2.1 RIC Subscription procedure

#### 8.2.1.1 General

This procedure is used to establish RIC Subscriptions on E2 Node consisting of an event trigger and a sequence of RIC Service Actions.

This procedure shall be initiated by the Near-RT RIC.

This procedure uses RIC Service signalling.

#### 8.2.1.2 Successful operation

The Near-RT RIC initiates the procedure by sending a RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST message, which shall contain a unique RIC Request ID IE, assigned by the Near-RT RIC, to the E2 Node.

When the Near-RT RIC sends the RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST message, it shall start the timer TRICEVENTcreate.

At reception of the RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST message the E2 Node shall:

- -	Determine the target RAN Function using the information in the RAN Function ID IE and configure the requested event trigger using information in the RIC Subscription Details IE.
- -	If one or more Report, Insert and/or Policy RIC Service Actions are included in the RIC Subscription Details IE then the target RAN Function shall validate the event trigger and requested action sequence and, if accepted, store the required RIC Request ID, RIC Event Trigger Definition IE and sequence of RIC Service Actions.
- -	If optional RIC Subscription Start Time IE is present and has expired, then the E2 Node shall ignore the optional RIC Subscription Start Time IE.
If the requested trigger and at least one required RIC Service Action are accepted by the E2 Node, the E2 Node shall reserve for each admitted RIC Service Action the necessary resources and send the RIC SUBSCRIPTION RESPONSE message back to the Near-RT RIC.

The E2 Node shall include in the response message the RIC Service Actions for which resources have been prepared at the E2 Node in the RIC Actions Admitted List IE.

The E2 Node shall include the RIC Service Actions that have not been admitted in the RIC Actions Not Admitted List IE with an appropriate cause value.

Upon reception of the RIC SUBSCRIPTION RESPONSE message the Near-RT RIC shall stop timer TRICEVENTcreate and terminate the RIC Subscription procedure.

If more than one RIC Service Actions has been accepted by the E2 Node then, at each occurrence of the common Event Trigger, the sequence of RIC Service Actions shall be executed according to the following considerations:

- -	If optional RIC Action Execution Order IE is not present or is present and set to 0 ("Any order"), then the specific RIC Service Action in the sequence of RIC Service Actions may be executed in any order irrespective of the execution order of the other RIC Service Actions.
- -	If optional RIC Action Execution Order IE is present and set to a value greater than 0, then the specific RIC Service Action shall be executed in order according to the RIC Action Execution Order IE.
- -	If two or more RIC Service Actions have the same value for the optional RIC Action Execution Order IE then these RIC Service Actions shall be executed in parallel.
If the optional RIC Subscription Start Time IE is present, the E2 Node shall only enable the event trigger from the indicated start time.

If the optional RIC Subscription End Time IE is present, the E2 Node shall disable the event trigger when the indicated end time has expired.

Interactions with RIC Subscription Delete Required procedure:

If the optional RIC Subscription End Time IE is present and the indicated end time has expired, the E2 Node may send the RIC SUBSCRIPTION DELETE REQUIRED message to the Near-RT RIC with an appropriate cause value.

Interactions with RIC Subscription Delete procedure:

If the optional RIC Subscription End Time IE is present, the Near-RT RIC may initiate an RIC Subscription Delete procedure when the expected RIC Subscription End Time has expired.

#### 8.2.1.3 Unsuccessful operation

If a failure occurs during the RIC Subscription procedure the E2 Node shall send the RIC SUBSCRIPTION FAILURE message to the Near-RT RIC containing an appropriate cause value.

If the E2 Node admits none of the requested RIC Service Actions, or detects an issue with the requested sequence of RIC Service Actions, or in the optional RIC Subsequent Action IE definitions, the E2 Node shall send the RIC SUBSCRIPTION FAILURE message to the Near-RT RIC containing an appropriate cause value.

If the RIC Subscription procedure contains an invalid optional RIC Subscription Start Time IE and/or RIC Subscription End Time IE, the E2 Node shall send the RIC SUBSCRIPTION FAILURE message to the Near-RT RIC containing an appropriate cause value.

Upon reception of the RIC SUBSCRIPTION FAILURE message the Near-RT RIC shall stop the timer TRICEVENTcreate and terminate the RIC Subscription procedure.

Interactions with RIC Subscription Delete procedure:

If there is no response from the E2 Node to the RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST message before timer TRICEVENTcreate expires in the Near-RT RIC, the Near-RT RIC shall initiate the RIC Subscription Delete procedure containing RIC Request ID IE that was previously assigned by the Near-RT RIC to cancel the RIC Subscription towards the E2 Node. The Near-RT RIC shall ignore any RIC SUBSCRIPTION RESPONSE or RIC SUBSCRIPTION FAILURE message containing RIC Request ID IE that was previously assigned by the Near-RT RIC received after the initiation of the RIC Subscription Delete procedure and release any resources related to the concerned E2 Node.

#### 8.2.1.4 Abnormal conditions

If the E2 Node receives a RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST message containing RIC Subscription Details IE that does not align with the specific E2 Service Model, see O-RAN WG3.TS.E2SM [3], the E2 Node shall send the RIC SUBSCRIPTION FAILURE message to the Near-RT RIC containing an appropriate cause value.

If the E2 Node receives a RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST message which contains an unknown RAN Function ID IE, the E2 Node shall send the RIC SUBSCRIPTION FAILURE message to the Near-RT RIC containing an appropriate cause value.

If the E2 Node receives a RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST message containing identical contents the E2 Node shall send the RIC SUBSCRIPTION FAILURE message to the Near-RT RIC containing an appropriate cause value.

### 8.2.2 RIC Subscription Delete procedure

#### 8.2.2.1 General

This procedure is used to delete RIC Subscriptions on E2 Node.

This procedure shall be initiated by the Near-RT RIC.

This procedure uses RIC Service signalling.

#### 8.2.2.2 Successful operation

The Near-RT RIC initiates the procedure by sending a RIC SUBSCRIPTION DELETE REQUEST message, containing RIC Request ID IE that was previously assigned by the Near-RT RIC during a successful RIC Subscription procedure, to the E2 Node.

When the Near-RT RIC sends the RIC SUBSCRIPTION DELETE REQUEST message, it shall start timer TRICEVENTdelete.

At reception of the RIC SUBSCRIPTION DELETE REQUEST message the E2 Node shall delete the indicated RIC Subscription and release the corresponding necessary resources.

The E2 Node shall send the RIC SUBSCRIPTION DELETE RESPONSE message back to the Near-RT RIC.

Upon reception of the RIC SUBSCRIPTION DELETE RESPONSE message the Near-RT RIC shall stop timer TRICEVENTdelete, release any necessary resources associated with that RIC Subscription and terminate the RIC Subscription Delete procedure.

#### 8.2.2.3 Unsuccessful operation

If a failure occurs during the RIC Subscription Delete procedure, the E2 Node shall send the RIC SUBSCRIPTION DELETE FAILURE message to the Near-RT RIC containing an appropriate cause value.

If the RIC Request ID IE included in the RIC SUBSCRIPTION DELETE REQUEST message is unknown, the E2 Node shall send the RIC SUBSCRIPTION DELETE FAILURE message to the Near-RT RIC containing an appropriate cause value

Upon reception of the RIC SUBSCRIPTION DELETE FAILURE message the Near-RT RIC shall stop timer TRICEVENTdelete and terminate the RIC Subscription Delete procedure.

#### 8.2.2.4 Abnormal conditions

If the E2 Node receives a RIC SUBSCRIPTION DELETE REQUEST message contains an unknown RAN Function ID IE, the E2 Node shall send the RIC SUBSCRIPTION DELETE FAILURE message to the Near-RT RIC containing an appropriate cause value.

### 8.2.2A RIC Subscription Delete Required procedure

#### 8.2.2A.1 General

This procedure is used to enable the E2 Node to request deletion of the existing RIC Subscriptions in the E2 Node previously created for the Near-RT RIC.

This procedure shall be initiated by the E2 Node.

This procedure uses RIC Service signalling.

#### 8.2.2A.2 Successful operation

The E2 Node initiates the procedure by sending a RIC SUBSCRIPTION DELTE REQUIRED message, containing RIC Request ID IE that was previously assigned by the Near-RT RIC during a successful RIC Subscription procedure, to the Near-RT RIC.

The message shall contain an appropriate cause value for each RIC Subscription requesting to remove.

At reception of the RIC SUBSCRIPTION DELETE REQUIRED message, for each RIC Subscription associated with the included RIC Request ID IE and RAN Function ID IE, the Near-RT RIC may initiate the RIC Subscription Delete procedure toward the E2 Node.

#### 8.2.2A.3 Abnormal conditions

If the Near-RT RIC receives a RIC SUBSCRIPTION DELETE REQUIRED message which contains an unknown RIC Request ID IE and RAN Function ID IE, the Near-RT RIC shall ignore the message.

### 8.2.2B RIC Subscription Audit procedure

#### 8.2.2B.1 General

This procedure is used to audit the list of establish RIC Subscriptions on E2 Node.

This procedure shall be initiated by the Near-RT RIC.

This procedure uses RIC Service signalling.

#### 8.2.2B.2 Successful operation

The Near-RT RIC initiates the procedure by sending a RIC SUBSCRIPTION AUDIT REQUEST message which shall contain a unique RIC Request ID IE, assigned by the Near-RT RIC to identify the procedure, and may contain the RIC Subscription Audit List IE with each item containing a RIC Request ID IE, that was previously assigned by the Near-RT RIC during a successful RIC Subscription procedure, to the E2 Node.

When the Near-RT RIC sends the RIC SUBSCRIPTION AUDIT REQUEST message, it shall start the timer TRICEVENTcreate.

At reception of the RIC SUBSCRIPTION AUDIT REQUEST message the E2 Node shall:

- -	If the RIC Subscription Audit List IE is present and contains at least one RIC Subscription, identified by the RIC Request ID IE, that is recognized by the E2 Node, then the E2 Node shall record the confirmed RIC Subscriptions in the RIC Subscription Confirmed List IE.
- -	If the RIC Subscription Audit List IE is present and contains at least one RIC Subscription, identified by the RIC Request ID IE, that is not known to the E2 Node, then the E2 Node shall record the unknown RIC Subscriptions in the RIC Subscription Unknown List IE.
- -	If the RIC Subscription Audit List IE is present and if the RIC Subscription Audit Flag IE is not present and the E2 Node holds at least one established RIC Subscription that is not included in the RIC Subscription Audit List IE, then the E2 Node shall record the missing RIC Subscriptions in the RIC Subscription Missing List IE.
- -	If the RIC Subscription Audit List IE is present and if the RIC Subscription Audit Flag IE is present and the Listed Records Only IE is present and set to TRUE, then the E2 Node shall only respond with respect to the RIC Subscriptions in the RIC Subscription Audit List IE.
- -	If the RIC Subscription Audit List IE is not present, then the E2 Node shall record all established RIC Subscriptions in the RIC Subscription Missing List IE.
After processing the RIC SUBSCRIPTION AUDIT REQUEST message, if the E2 Node has at least one item in RIC Subscription Confirmed List IE, RIC Subscription Unknown List IE or RIC Subscription Missing List IE, the E2 Node shall send the RIC SUBSCRIPTION AUDIT RESPONSE message back to the Near-RT RIC.

The E2 Node shall include in the response message the confirmed RIC Subscriptions in the RIC Subscription Confirmed List IE.

The E2 Node shall include in the response message the not known RIC Subscriptions in the RIC Subscription Unknown List IE.

The E2 Node shall include in the response message the missing RIC Subscriptions in the RIC Subscription Missing List IE.

Upon reception of the RIC SUBSCRIPTION AUDIT RESPONSE message the Near-RT RIC shall stop timer TRICEVENTcreate and terminate the RIC Subscription Audit procedure.

#### 8.2.2B.3 Unsuccessful operation

If a failure occurs during the RIC Subscription Audit procedure the E2 Node shall send the RIC SUBSCRIPTION AUDIT FAILURE message to the Near-RT RIC containing an appropriate cause value.

If the E2 Node after processing the RIC SUBSCRIPTION AUDIT REQUEST message, the E2 Node does not have at least one item in RIC Subscription Confirmed List IE, RIC Subscription Unknown List IE or RIC Subscription Missing List IE, the E2 Node shall send the RIC SUBSCRIPTION AUDIT FAILURE message to the Near-RT RIC containing an appropriate cause value.

Upon reception of the RIC SUBSCRIPTION AUDIT FAILURE message the Near-RT RIC shall stop the timer TRICEVENTcreate and terminate the RIC Subscription procedure.

#### 8.2.2B.4 Abnormal conditions

If the E2 Node receives a RIC SUBSCRIPTION AUDIT REQUEST message which contains an unknown RAN Function ID IE, the E2 Node shall send the RIC SUBSCRIPTION AUDIT FAILURE message to the Near-RT RIC containing an appropriate cause value.

### 8.2.3 RIC Indication procedure

#### 8.2.3.1 General

The purpose of the RIC Indication procedure is to transfer Report and/or Insert RIC Service Action associated with a RIC Subscription procedure.

This procedure shall be initiated by the E2 Node.

This procedure uses RIC Service signalling.

#### 8.2.3.2 Successful operation

An E2 Node initiates the procedure by sending RIC INDICATION message to the Near-RT RIC containing the RIC Request ID IE, that was previously assigned by the Near-RT RIC during a successful RIC Subscription procedure.

If the RIC Indication message is in response to an Insert RIC Service Action, then the E2 Node shall provide the RIC Call Process ID IE within the RIC INDICATION message, and the E2 Node shall start the associated RIC Time to Wait timer, and wait for the corresponding response from the Near-RT RIC.

Near-RT RIC may use the RIC Call Process ID IE in a subsequent RIC Control procedure.

If an RIC Subsequent Action IE was associated to the RIC Service Action then, after successful transmission of the RIC INDICATION message, the originating E2 Node shall progress accordingly:

- -	If the RIC Subsequent Action Type IE was set to Continue or Halt, and the associated RIC Time to Wait timer has not expired, and a RIC CONTROL REQUEST message is received with the same RIC Call Process ID IE, then the associated procedure shall process the RIC CONTROL REQUEST and continue to execute any remaining actions in the sequence of RIC Actions defined in the RIC Subscription procedure.
- -	If the RIC Subsequent Action Type IE was set to Continue and the associated RIC Time to Wait timer has expired, then the E2 Node shall continue to execute any remaining RIC Service Actions in the sequence of RIC Service Actions defined in the RIC Subscription procedure.
- -	If the RIC Subsequent Action Type IE was set to Halt and the associated RIC Time to Wait timer has expired, then the E2 Node shall abort further processing of the associated procedure in the E2 node. In this case, any remaining or ongoing parallel RIC Service Actions in the sequence of RIC Actions defined in the RIC Subscription procedure shall also be aborted.

#### 8.2.3.3 Unsuccessful operation

Not applicable.

#### 8.2.3.4 Abnormal conditions

Not applicable.

### 8.2.4 RIC Control procedure

#### 8.2.4.1 General

The purpose of the RIC Control procedure is to initiate or resume a specific functionality in the E2 Node.

This procedure shall be initiated by the Near-RT RIC.

This procedure uses RIC Service signalling.

#### 8.2.4.2 Successful operation

The Near-RT RIC initiates the procedure by sending a RIC CONTROL REQUEST message containing a unique RIC Request ID IE, assigned by the Near-RT RIC.

When the Near-RT RIC sends the RIC CONTROL REQUEST message and the optional RIC Control Ack Request IE has been set to "Ack", or is not present, the Near-RT RIC, it shall start the timer TRICcontrol.

At reception of the RIC CONTROL REQUEST message the E2 Node shall:

- -	Determine the target RAN Function using the information in the RAN Function ID IE and initiate the requested RIC Control procedure action using information in the RIC Control Message IE.
- -	If the RIC Call Process ID IE is included in the RIC CONTROL REQUEST message, the E2 Node shall use this IE to identify a specific call process that was indicated in the RIC INDICATION message.
- -	If the RIC CONTROL REQUEST message contains the optional RIC Control Ack Request IE set to "Ack", or if the optional RIC Control Ack Request IE is not present, and the E2 Node has successfully processed the requested RIC Control procedure action, then the E2 Node shall respond with the RIC CONTROL ACKNOWLEDGE message.
- -	If the RIC CONTROL REQUEST message contains the optional RIC Control Ack Request IE set to "NoAck" and the E2 Node has successfully processed the requested RIC Control procedure action, then the E2 Node shall not send the RIC CONTROL ACKNOWLEDGE message.
Upon reception of the RIC CONTROL ACKNOWLEDGE message, the Near-RT RIC shall stop timer TRICcontrol and terminate the RIC Control procedure.

The Near-RT RIC may use the information contained in the optional RIC Control Outcome IE to determine subsequent actions.

#### 8.2.4.3 Unsuccessful operation

If the RIC CONTROL REQUEST message contains an invalid RIC Call Process ID IE, then the E2 Node shall respond with the RIC CONTROL FAILURE message with an appropriate cause value.

If the RIC CONTROL REQUEST message contains the optional RIC Call Process ID IE for which the associated RIC Time to Wait timer had expired, then the E2 Node shall respond with the RIC CONTROL FAILURE message with an appropriate cause value.

If the E2 Node fails to execute the requested RIC Control procedure E2SM specific action, then the E2 Node shall respond with the RIC CONTROL FAILURE message with an appropriate cause value.

If the E2 Node detects an encoding or functional error in the E2SM specific IEs contained in the RIC CONTROL REQUEST message, then the E2 Node shall respond with the RIC CONTROL FAILURE message with an appropriate cause value.

If the E2 Node receives a RIC CONTROL REQUEST message which contains an unknown RAN Function ID IE the E2 Node shall respond with the RIC CONTROL FAILURE message containing an appropriate cause value.

If the E2 Node does not support the specific RIC Control procedure action, then the E2 Node shall respond with the RIC CONTROL FAILURE message containing an appropriate cause value.

Upon reception of the RIC CONTROL FAILURE message the Near-RT RIC shall stop timer TRICcontrol, if running, and terminate the RIC Control procedure.

The Near-RT RIC may use the information contained in the Cause IE and optional RIC Control Outcome IE to determine subsequent actions.

#### 8.2.4.4 Abnormal conditions

Upon reception of the ERROR INDICATION message including the RIC Request ID IE associated to the RIC CONTROL REQUEST message, the Near-RT RIC shall stop timer TRICcontrol, if running, and terminate the RIC Control procedure.

If timer TRICcontrol was set when sending the RIC CONTROL REQUEST message and there was no response from the E2 node before the timer expiry, the Near-RT RIC shall send an ERROR INDICATION with the appropriate value for the Cause IE.

### 8.2.5 RIC Subscription Modification procedure

#### 8.2.5.1 General

The purpose of the RIC Subscription Modification procedure is to modify an existing RIC subscription on an E2 node, in terms of its event trigger definition and/or the sequence of actions.

This procedure shall be initiated by the Near-RT RIC.

This procedure uses RIC Service signalling.

#### 8.2.5.2 Successful operation

The Near-RT RIC initiates this procedure by sending the RIC SUBSCRIPTION MODIFICATION REQUEST message to the E2 node, containing the RIC Request ID IE to uniquely identify the existing RIC Subscription in the E2 node.

When the Near-RT RIC sends the RIC SUBSCRIPTION MODIFICATION REQUEST message, it shall start timer TRICEVENTmodify.

Upon reception of the RIC SUBSCRIPTION MODIFICATION REQUEST message, the E2 node shall determine the existing RIC Subscription and the target RAN Function from the RIC Request ID IE and the RAN Function ID IE, respectively.

If the RIC Event Trigger Definition to be Modified IE is included, then the E2 node shall validate and modify the event trigger defined for the existing RIC subscription based on the contents of the IE.

If the RIC Actions to be Removed List IE is included, then for every RIC Action ID IE included in the list, the E2 node shall delete the requested action and release the corresponding necessary resources.

If the RIC Actions to be Modified List IE is included, then for every RIC Action ID IE included in the list for which there exists a corresponding RIC Action Definition IE and/or RIC Subsequent Action IE, the E2 node shall modify the existing behaviour for the action with the requested modification in the respective IEs and modify the corresponding necessary resources.

If the RIC Actions to be Modified List IE is included, then for every RIC Action ID IE included in the list for which there exists a RIC Action Execution Order IE, the E2 node shall replace the current execution order for the action in the sequence of actions with the new execution order for the action in the sequence, as given in the RIC Action Execution Order IE.

If the RIC Actions to be Added List IE is included, then the E2 node shall validate and add the requested actions to the existing sequence of RIC Actions in order of the RIC Action Execution Order IE and reserve the necessary resources for the new actions.

The E2 node shall send the RIC SUBSCRIPTION MODIFICATION RESPONSE message back to the Near-RT RIC when one of the following cases is successfully executed:

- -	If the RIC Event Trigger Definition to be Modified IE is present in the RIC SUBSCRIPTION MODIFICATION REQUEST message and if the requested modification for the event trigger definition was successfully performed by the E2 node, or
- -	If the RIC Event Trigger Definition to be Modified IE is not present (i.e., no modification to the event trigger definition was requested) in the RIC SUBSCRIPTION MODIFICATION REQUEST message and if at least one of the requested actions to be added or modified or removed as requested by the Near-RT RIC in RIC Actions To Be Added List IE or RIC Actions to be Modified List IE or RIC Actions to be Removed List IE, respectively, in the RIC SUBSCRIPTION MODIFICATION REQUEST message, was successfully performed by the E2 node.
The E2 node shall report the result of all the requested modifications to the sequence of actions, if any, back to the Near-RT RIC in the RIC SUBSCRIPTION MODIFICATION RESPONSE message as follows:

- -	A list of actions requested to be removed, indexed by the RIC Action ID IE, which are successfully removed by the E2 node, shall be included in the RIC Actions Removed List IE.
- -	A list of actions requested to be removed, indexed by the RIC Action ID IE, which failed to get removed from the sequence by the E2 node, shall be included in the RIC Actions Failed to be Removed List IE, with appropriate cause values.
- -	A list of actions requested to be modified, indexed by the RIC Action ID IE, which are successfully modified by the E2 node, shall be included in the RIC Actions Modified List IE.
- -	A list of actions requested to be modified, indexed by the RIC Action ID IE, which failed to get modified by the E2 node, shall be included in the RIC Actions Failed to be Modified List IE with appropriate cause values.
- -	A list of actions requested to be added, indexed by the RIC Action ID IE, which are successfully added by the E2 node, shall be included in the RIC Actions Added List IE.
- -	A list of actions requested to be added, indexed by the RIC Action ID IE, which failed to get added to the sequence by the E2 node, shall be included in the RIC Actions Failed to be Added List IE with appropriate cause values.
If, for a given RIC Action ID IE in the RIC Actions to be Modified List IE, more than one modification to the RIC Service Action is requested in the form of RIC Action Definition IE and/or RIC Action Execution Order IE and/or RIC Subsequent Action IE, then the E2 node shall report that the requested action modification is successfully performed and shall include the action in the RIC Actions Modified List IE, if and only if, all the requested modifications to the action are successfully performed by the E2 node.

If one of the requested modifications to the RIC Service Action is not successfully performed by the E2 node, then the E2 node shall include the RIC Service Action in the RIC Actions Failed to be Modified List IE, along with an appropriate cause, to indicate failure for the requested modification to the RIC Service Action.

If, for a given RIC Action ID IE in the RIC Actions to be Added IE, either the action type in the RIC Action Type IE or the action definition in the RIC Action Definition IE or the action execution order in the RIC Action Execution Order IE or the subsequent action, if included, in the RIC Subsequent Action IE is not successfully processed by the E2 node, then the E2 node shall include the action in the RIC Actions Failed to be Added List IE with an appropriate cause, indicating failure to add the requested action to the existing sequence of actions.

If, after processing the RIC Subscription Modification procedure, more than one RIC Service Action remains accepted by the E2 Node then, at each occurrence of the common Event Trigger, the sequence of RIC Service Actions shall be executed according to the considerations defined in clause 8.2.1.2.

Upon reception of the RIC SUBSCRIPTION MODIFICATION RESPONSE message, the Near-RT RIC shall stop timer TRICEVENTmodify and terminate the RIC Subscription Modification procedure.

#### 8.2.5.3 Unsuccessful operation

If a failure occurs during the RIC Subscription Modification procedure, the E2 node shall send a RIC SUBSCRIPTION MODIFICATION FAILURE message to the Near-RT RIC with an appropriate cause value.

If the RIC Event Trigger Definition to be Modified IE is present in the RIC SUBSCRIPTION MODIFICATION REQUEST message and if the requested modification for the event trigger definition is not accepted by the E2 node, the E2 node shall send a RIC SUBSCRIPTION MODIFICATION FAILURE message to the Near-RT RIC with an appropriate cause value.

If the RIC Event Trigger Definition to be Modified IE is not present (i.e., no modification to the event trigger definition was requested) and if none of the requested modifications to the sequence of actions were successfully performed, that is if all of the following apply, the E2 node shall send a RIC SUBSCRIPTION MODIFICATION FAILURE message to the Near-RT RIC with an appropriate cause value:

- -	RIC Actions to be Added List IE was present in the RIC SUBSCRIPTION MODIFICATION REQUEST message and if none of the requested additions were successfully performed
- -	RIC Actions to be Modified List IE was present in the RIC SUBSCRIPTION MODIFICATION REQUEST message and if none of the requested modifications were successfully performed
- -	RIC Actions to be Removed List IE was present in the RIC SUBSCRIPTION MODIFICATION REQUEST message and if none of the requested removals were successfully performed
If the E2 node detects an issue with the resulting sequence of actions after processing the RIC Actions to be Added List IE and/or RIC Actions to be Modified List IE and/or RIC Actions to be Removed List IE, the E2 node shall send a RIC SUBSCRIPTION MODIFICATION FAILURE message to the Near-RT RIC with an appropriate cause value.

If all RIC Service Actions in the existing RIC Subscription are proposed for removal, the E2 node shall send a RIC SUBSCRIPTION MODIFICATION FAILURE message to the Near-RT RIC with an appropriate cause value.

Upon reception of the RIC SUBSCRIPTION FAILURE message, the Near-RT RIC shall stop the timer TRICEVENTmodify and terminate the RIC Subscription Modification procedure.

#### 8.2.5.4 Abnormal conditions

If the E2 node receives a RIC SUBSCRIPTION MODIFICATION REQUEST message including an unknown RAN Function ID IE, the E2 node shall send the RIC SUBSCRIPTION MODIFICATION FAILURE message to the Near-RT RIC with an appropriate cause value.

If the E2 node receives a RIC SUBSCRIPTION MODIFICATION REQUEST message including an unknown RIC Request ID IE, the E2 node shall send the RIC SUBSCRIPTION MODIFICATION FAILURE message to the Near-RT RIC with an appropriate cause value.

If the E2 node receives a RIC SUBSCRIPTION MODIFICATION REQUEST message containing the same RIC Action ID IE value across the RIC Actions to be Added List IE , RIC Actions to be Modified List IE and/or RIC Actions to be Removed List IE, then the E2 node shall send the RIC SUBSCRIPTION MODIFICATION FAILURE message to the Near-RT RIC with an appropriate cause value.

### 8.2.6 RIC Subscription Modification Required procedure

#### 8.2.6.1 General

This procedure is used by the E2 Node to request the Near-RT RIC for modifying an existing RIC Subscription in the E2 Node.

This procedure shall be initiated by the E2 Node.

This procedure uses RIC Service signalling.

#### 8.2.6.2 Successful operation

The E2 Node initiates the procedure by sending the RIC SUBSCRIPTION MODIFICATION REQUIRED message, containing RIC Request ID IE that was previously assigned by the Near-RT RIC during a successful RIC Subscription procedure, to the Near-RT RIC.

Upon reception of the RIC SUBSCRIPTION MODIFICATION REQUIRED message, the Near-RT RIC shall determine the RIC Subscription from the RIC Request ID IE and the target RAN Function from the RAN Function ID IE.

If at least one of the requested actions in RIC Actions Required to be Modified List IE or RIC Actions Required to be Removed List IE is successfully confirmed by the Near-RT RIC, then the Near-RT RIC shall perform the required procedures to update the RIC Subscription and shall send the RIC SUBSCRIPTION MODIFICATION CONFIRM message to the E2 node.

The Near-RT RIC shall report the result to the E2 node in the RIC SUBSCRIPTION MODIFICATION CONFIRM as follows:

- -	A list of actions requested to be modified, indexed by the RIC Action ID IE, which are successfully confirmed for modification by the Near-RT RIC, shall be included in the RIC Actions Confirmed for Modification List IE.
- -	A list of actions requested to be modified, indexed by the RIC Action ID IE, which are refused to be modified by the Near-RT RIC, shall be included in the RIC Actions Refused to be Modified List IE with appropriate cause values.
- -	A list of actions requested to be removed, indexed by the RIC Action ID IE, which are successfully confirmed for removal by the Near-RT RIC, shall be included in the RIC Actions Confirmed for Removal List IE.
- -	A list of actions requested to be removed, indexed by the RIC Action ID IE, which are refused to be removed by the Near-RT RIC, shall be included in the RIC Actions Refused for Removal List IE with appropriate cause values.
If, after processing the RIC Subscription Modification Required procedure, more than one RIC Service Action remains in effect at the E2 node, then at each occurrence of the common Event Trigger, the sequence of RIC Service Actions shall be executed according to the considerations defined in clause 8.2.1.2.

Upon reception of the RIC SUBSCRIPTION MODIFICATION CONFIRM message, the E2 Node shall release the necessary resources for the actions that are confirmed for removal in the RIC Actions Confirmed for Removal List IE, if present, and shall modify the necessary resources for the actions that are confirmed for modification in the RIC Actions Confirmed for Modification List IE, if present.

#### 8.2.6.3 Unsuccessful operation

If a failure occurs during the RIC Subscription Modification Required procedure the Near-RT RIC shall send the RIC SUBSCRIPTION MODIFICATION REFUSE message to the E2 node. If none of the requested modifications to the actions in the RIC SUBSCRIPTION MODIFICATION REQUIRED message (i.e., in the RIC Actions Required to be Modified List IE and the RIC Actions Required to be Removed List IE, if present) is successfully confirmed, the Near-RT RIC shall send the RIC SUBSCRIPTION MODIFICATION REFUSE message to the E2 node with an appropriate cause.

If the Near-RT RIC detects an issue with the requested sequence of actions after processing the requested RIC Actions Required to be Modified List IE and/or the RIC Actions Required to be Removed List IE respectively, if present, the Near-RT RIC shall send the RIC SUBSCRIPTION MODIFICATION REFUSE message to the E2 node with an appropriate cause.

If all RIC Service Action in the existing RIC Subscription are proposed for removal, the Near-RT RIC shall send a RIC SUBSCRIPTION MODIFICATION REFUSE message to the E2 Node with an appropriate cause value.

#### 8.2.6.4 Abnormal conditions

If the Near-RT RIC receives a RIC SUBSCRIPTION MODIFICATION REQUIRED message which contains an unknown RAN Function ID IE, the Near-RT RIC shall send the RIC SUBSCRIPTION MODIFICATION REFUSE message to the E2 Node with an appropriate cause value.

If the Near-RT RIC receives a RIC SUBSCRIPTION MODIFICATION REQUIRED message containing an unknown RIC Request ID IE, the Near-RT RIC shall send the RIC SUBSCRIPTION MODIFICATION REFUSE message to the E2 Node with an appropriate cause value.

### 8.2.7 RIC Query procedure

#### 8.2.7.1 General

This procedure is initiated by Near-RT RIC to request RAN and/or UE related information from E2 Node.

This procedure shall be initiated by the Near-RT RIC.

This procedure uses RIC Service signalling.

#### 8.2.7.2 Successful operation

The Near-RT RIC initiates the procedure by sending the RIC QUERY REQUEST message, which shall contain a unique RIC Request ID IE, assigned by the Near-RT RIC, to the E2 Node. When the Near-RT RIC sends the RIC QUERY REQUEST message, it shall start timer TRICquery.

At reception of the RIC QUERY REQUEST message the E2 Node shall:

- -	Determine the target RAN Function using the information in the RAN Function ID IE.
- -	Validate the RIC Query Header IE and RIC Query Definition IE and if the requested information is available at E2 Node, then E2 Node shall respond back with RIC QUERY RESPONSE message containing the requested information.
Upon reception of the RIC QUERY RESPONSE message the Near-RT RIC shall stop timer TRICquery and terminate the RIC Query procedure.

#### 8.2.7.3 Unsuccessful operation

If the RAN Function ID IE in the RIC QUERY REQUEST message is not supported by E2 Node, then the E2 Node shall respond with the RIC QUERY FAILURE message to Near-RT RIC with an appropriate cause value.

If none of the requested information in the RIC Query Definition IE is available at E2 Node, then E2 Node shall respond with the RIC QUERY FAILURE message to Near-RT RIC with an appropriate cause value.

Upon reception of the RIC QUERY FAILURE message the Near-RT RIC shall stop timer TRICquery and terminate the RIC Query Procedure.

#### 8.2.7.4 Abnormal conditions

Upon reception of the ERROR INDICATION message including the RIC Request ID IE corresponding to the previous RIC QUERY REQUEST message, the Near-RT RIC shall stop timer TRICquery, if running, and terminate the RIC Query procedure.

### 8.2.8 RIC Service Load Status procedure

#### 8.2.8.1 General

This procedure is used to control the reporting of RIC Service Load information for one or more RIC Services.

This procedure shall be initiated by the Near-RT RIC.

This procedure uses RIC Service signalling.

#### 8.2.8.2 Successful operation

The Near-RT RIC initiates the procedure by sending a RIC LOAD STATUS REQUEST message to the E2 Node.

Upon reception of the RIC SERVICE LOAD STATUS REQUEST message the E2 Node shall process the message according to the following considerations:

- The E2 Node:
- -	Shall initiate the requested load information reporting according to the parameters given in the request in case the Registration Request IE set to "start"; or
- -	Shall stop all measurements and terminate the reporting in case the Registration Request IE is set to "stop"; or
- -	Shall add load measurements indicated in the request to the measurements initiated before for the given measurement IDs, in case the Registration Request IE is set to "add". If measurements are already initiated for a requested load measurement, this information shall be ignored.
- For each RAN Function in the RAN Function Load Request List IE:
- -	If the RAN Function Load Request IE is present, the E2 Node shall collect overall load information for the RAN Function identified by the corresponding RAN Function ID IE.
- -	If the RIC Service Load Request IE is present in the RIC SERVICE LOAD STATUS REQUEST message, the E2 Node shall shall collect load information for requested RIC Services.
- -	If the RIC Subscription Load Request List IE is present and the RIC Subscription Load Request IE is also included, the E2 Node shall collect load information for the RIC Subscription identified by the RIC Request ID IE. If the RIC Action Load Request List IE is also present for a given RIC Subscription, the E2 Node shall collect load information only for each RIC Action identified by the corresponding RIC Action ID IE in the list. If the RIC Action Load Request List IE is not present for a given RIC Subscription, the E2 Node shall collect load information for all the RIC Actions associated with the RIC Subscription
After processing the RIC SERVICE LOAD STATUS REQUEST message, if the E2 Node has accepted at least one item in the RAN Function Load Request List IE and/or RIC Service Load Request List IE and/or at least one item in the RIC Subscription Load Request List IE, the E2 Node shall send the RIC SERVICE LOAD STATUS RESPONSE message to the Near-RT RIC, and initiate load reporting using the RIC Service Load Update procedure.

#### 8.2.8.3 Unsuccessful operation

If the E2 Node cannot accept the RIC SERVICE LOAD STATUS REQUEST message, it shall respond with the RIC SERVICE LOAD STATUS FAILURE message with an appropriate cause value.

#### 8.3.8.4 Abnormal conditions

Void.

### 8.2.9 RIC Service Load Update procedure

#### 8.3.9.1 General

The purpose of the RIC Service Load Update procedure is to inform the Near-RT RIC of the load status in the E2 Node for one or more RIC Services.

This procedure shall be initiated by the E2 Node.

This procedure uses RIC Service signalling.

#### 8.3.9.2 Successful operation

The E2 Node initiates the procedure by sending a RIC LOAD UPDATE message.

- -	If the RAN Function Load Information IE is included in the RAN Function Load List IE, the Near-RT RIC shall consider that the load information in the RAN Function Load Information IE is for the overall RAN Function load information associated with the corresponding RAN Function ID IE.
- -	If the RIC Service Load Information IE is included in the RAN Function Load List IE, the Near-RT RIC shall consider that the load information in the RIC Service Load Information IE is for the overall RIC Service load information associated with the corresponding RIC Service type.
- -	If the RIC Subscription Load List IE is included, and the RIC Subscription Load Information IE is also included in the RIC Subscription Load List IE, the Near-RT RIC shall consider that the load information in the RIC Subscription Load Information IE is for the overall RIC Subscription load information associated with the corresponding RIC Request ID IE that was previously assigned by the Near-RT RIC during a successful RIC Subscription procedure. If the RIC Action Load List IE is also included in the RIC Subscription Load List IE, the Near-RT RIC shall consider that the load information in the RIC Action Load Information IE is for the overall RIC Action load information associated with the corresponding RIC Action ID IE.

#### 8.3.9.3 Unsuccessful operation

Void.

#### 8.3.9.4 Abnormal conditions

Void.

### 8.2.10 RIC Subscription State Control procedure

#### 8.2.10.1 General

This procedure is used to suspend and/or resume existing RIC Subscriptions.

This procedure shall be initiated by the Near-RT RIC.

This procedure uses RIC Service signalling.

#### 8.2.10.2 Successful operation

The Near-RT RIC initiates the procedure by sending a RIC SUBSCRIPTION STATE CONTROL REQUEST message to the E2 Node.

Upon reception of the RIC SUBSCRIPTION STATE CONTROL REQUEST message the E2 Node shall process the message according to the following considerations for each RAN Function in the RAN Function State Control List IE:

- -	If the RIC Subscription To Be Suspended List IE is present, the E2 Node shall suspend either the list of RIC Actions, if the corresponding RIC Action List IE is present, or the entire RIC Subscription.
- -	If the RIC Subscription To Be Resumed List IE is present, the E2 Node shall resume either the list of RIC Actions, if the corresponding RIC Action List IE is present, or the entire RIC Subscription.
After processing the RIC SUBSCRIPTION STATE CONTROL REQUEST message, if the E2 Node has at least one item to be included in the RIC Subscription Suspended List IE and/or the RIC Subscription Resumed List IE for any RAN Function requested in the RAN Function State Control List IE , the E2 Node shall send the RIC SUBSCRIPTION STATE CONTROL RESPONSE message to the Near-RT RIC.

If, after processing the RIC SUBSCRIPTION STATE CONTROL REQUEST message, one or more RIC Subscriptions have been accepted to be suspended by the E2 Node without the corresponding RIC Action List IE present then, the corresponding Event Trigger, defined in clause 8.2.1.2, shall be suspended.

If, after processing the RIC SUBSCRIPTION STATE CONTROL REQUEST message, one or more RIC Subscriptions have been accepted to be resumed by the E2 Node then, the corresponding Event Trigger, defined in clause 8.2.1.2, shall be resumed and at each occurrence of the corresponding Event Trigger, the sequence of RIC Service Actions shall be executed according to the considerations defined in clause 8.2.1.2.

#### 8.2.10.3 Unsuccessful operation

If the E2 Node cannot accept the RIC SUBSCRIPTION STATE CONTROL REQUEST message it shall respond with the RIC SUBSCRIPTION STATE CONTROL FAILURE message with an appropriate cause value.

If the RIC Subscription State Control procedure failure occurs, the Near-RT RIC and E2 Node shall continue to operate with their existing configuration data.

#### 8.2.10.4 Abnormal conditions

Void.

### 8.2.11 RIC Assistance procedure

#### 8.2.11.1 General

This procedure is used to utilize an assistance service offered by the Near-RT RIC.

This procedure shall be initiated by the E2 Node.

This procedure uses RIC Service signalling.

#### 8.2.11.2 Successful operation

The E2 Node initiates the procedure by sending a RIC ASSISTANCE REQUEST message which shall contain a unique RIC Request ID IE, assigned by the E2 Node, to the Near-RT RIC. When the E2 Node sends the RIC ASSISTANCE REQUEST message, it shall start timer TRICassist.

At reception of the RIC ASSITANCE REQUEST message the Near-RT RIC shall:

- -	Consider the RIC Assistance Header IE and RIC Assistance Message IE to determine the requested service and if available at Near-RT RIC, then Near-RT RIC shall respond back with RIC ASSISTANCE RESPONSE message for the requested service with the result contained in the RIC Assistance Header IE and RIC Assistance Outcome IE.
Upon reception of the RIC ASSISTANCE RESPONSE message the E2 Node shall stop timer TRICassist and terminate the RIC Assistance procedure.

Interactions with RIC Assistance Indication procedure:

If the optional RIC Assistance Update IE is present, the Near-RT RIC shall use the RIC Assistance Update Number IE, if present, to determine the maximum number of RIC ASSISTANCE INDICATION messages to the E2 Node to provide updates for the requested assistance service offered by the Near-RT RIC.

If the RIC Assistance Update Number IE is not present, then the Near-RT RIC shall continue to send RIC ASSISTANCE INDICATION messages until reception of the RIC ASSISTANCE HALT message.

#### 8.2.11.3 Unsuccessful operation

If the Near-RT RIC cannot accept the RIC ASSISTANCE REQUEST message it shall respond with the RIC ASSISTANCE FAILURE message with an appropriate cause value.

Upon reception of the RIC ASSISTANCE FAILURE message the E2 Node shall stop timer TRICassist and terminate the RIC Assistance Procedure.

#### 8.2.11.4 Abnormal conditions

Void.

### 8.2.12 RIC Assistance Indication procedure

#### 8.2.12.1 General

This procedure is used to provide an update for an assistance service offered by the Near-RT RIC.

This procedure shall be initiated by the Near-RT RIC.

This procedure uses RIC Service signalling.

#### 8.2.12.2 Successful operation

The Near-RT RIC initiates the procedure by sending a RIC ASSISTANCE INDICATION message which shall contain a unique RIC Request ID IE, assigned by the E2 Node during a previous RIC Assistance procedure, to the E2 Node, and the updated assistance service result in RIC Assistance Header IE and RIC Assistance Outcome IE. Each update of the requested assistance service shall contain a unique RIC Assistance SN IE.

Interactions with RIC Assistance Halt procedure:

If the E2 Node sends a RIC ASSISTANCE HALT message, the Near-RT RIC shall halt sending RIC ASSISTANCE INDICATION messages corresponding to the RIC Request ID IE contained in the message.

#### 8.2.12.3 Unsuccessful operation

Not applicable.

#### 8.2.12.4 Abnormal conditions

Void.

### 8.2.13 RIC Assistance Halt procedure

#### 8.2.13.1 General

This procedure is used to halt updates for an assistance service offered by the Near-RT RIC.

This procedure shall be initiated by the E2 Node.

This procedure uses RIC Service signalling.

#### 8.2.13.2 Successful operation

The E2 Node initiates the procedure by sending a RIC ASSISTANCE HALT message which shall contain a unique RIC Request ID IE, assigned by the E2 Node during a previous RIC Assistance procedure, to the Near-RT RIC.

Upon reception the Near-RT RIC shall halt the requested updates to the RIC Assistance service.

#### 8.2.13.3 Unsuccessful operation

Not applicable.

#### 8.3.13.4 Abnormal conditions

If the Near-RT RIC receives a RIC Assistance Halt request from the E2 Node that does not correspond to an ongoing RIC Assistance service, then the Near-RT RIC shall ignore the message.

## 8.3 Global procedures

### 8.3.1 E2 Setup procedure

#### 8.3.1.1 General

The purpose of the E2 Setup procedure is to exchange application level data needed for the E2 Node and Near-RT RIC to correctly interoperate on the E2 interface. This procedure shall be the first E2AP procedure triggered after the TNL association has become operational.

This procedure erases any existing application level configuration data in the two nodes and replace it by the one received.

This procedure shall be initiated by the E2 Node.

This procedure uses E2 Support Function signalling.

#### 8.3.1.2 Successful operation

The E2 Node initiates the procedure by sending the E2 SETUP REQUEST message including the appropriate data to a Near-RT RIC.

If the Near-RT RIC has successfully processed the RAN Functions Added List IE then Near-RT RIC shall contain, in the E2 SETUP RESPONSE message, the RAN Functions Accepted List IE and/or RAN Functions Accepted with Modification List IE and/or the RAN Functions Rejected List IE. If a RAN Function whose RAN Function Definition IE received in the RAN Functions Added List IE contains one or more RIC assistance services that the Near-RT RIC cannot support, but the RAN Function itself remains acceptable, the Near-RT RIC may, instead of rejecting the entire RAN Function, include it in the RAN Functions Accepted with Modification List IE of the E2 SETUP RESPONSE message, where the revised definition by the Revised RAN Function Definition IE excludes the unsupported RIC assistance services while retaining the rest of the services. The other RAN Functions in the RAN Functions Added List IE of the E2 SETUP REQUEST message that are accepted as they are from the Near-RT RIC are included in the RAN Function Accepted List IE of the E2 SETUP RESPONSE message.

If the Near-RT RIC has successfully processed the E2 Node Component Configuration Addition List IE then Near-RT RIC shall contain, in the E2 SETUP RESPONSE message, the E2 Node Component Configuration Addition Acknowledge List IE.

#### 8.3.1.3 Unsuccessful operation

If the Near-RT RIC cannot accept the setup it shall respond with an E2 SETUP FAILURE message with an appropriate cause value.

The Near-RT RIC may provide an alternative Transport Layer Information IE in the E2 SETUP FAILURE message for the E2 Node to use when reinitiating the E2 Setup procedure towards the Near-RT RIC.

If the E2 SETUP FAILURE message includes the Time To Wait IE, the E2 node shall wait at least for the indicated time before reinitiating the E2 Setup procedure towards the Near-RT RIC.

#### 8.3.1.4 Abnormal conditions

If the first message received for a specific TNL association is not an E2 SETUP REQUEST, E2 SETUP RESPONSE, E2 SETUP FAILURE or E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE message then this shall be treated as a logical error.

### 8.3.2 Reset procedure

#### 8.3.2.1 General

The purpose of the Reset procedure is to initialize or re-initialize the E2 Node in the event of Near-RT RIC failure or vice-versa.

This procedure does not affect the application level data exchanged during the E2 Setup procedure, E2 Node Configuration Update procedure and RIC Service Update procedure.

This procedure shall be initiated by the E2 Node or the Near-RT RIC.

This procedure uses E2 Support Function signalling.

#### 8.3.2.2 Successful operation

This procedure may be initiated by either Near-RT RIC or E2 Node.

When the Reset procedure is initiated, the Near-RT RIC and E2 Node shall:

- -	Delete any pre-established RIC Subscriptions.
- -	Gracefully terminate any ongoing Near-RT RIC call processes using Insert, Control or Policy RIC Service Actions while ensuring that impact to ongoing calls for connected UE is minimized.
After the Reset has been completed, the Near-RT RIC may re-issue any required RIC Subscriptions.

Interactions with other procedures:

If the RESET REQUEST message is received, any other ongoing procedure (except for another Reset procedure) on the same E2 interface related to ongoing RIC Services shall be aborted.

#### 8.3.2.3 Unsuccessful operation

Void.

#### 8.3.2.4 Abnormal conditions

Void.

### 8.3.3 Error Indication

#### 8.3.3.1 General

The Error Indication procedure is initiated by either the E2 Node or the Near-RT RIC to report detected errors in one incoming message, provided they cannot be reported by an appropriate failure message.

This procedure shall be initiated by the E2 Node or the Near-RT RIC.

If the error situation arises due to reception of a message utilizing RIC Service signalling, then the Error Indication procedure uses RIC Service signalling. Otherwise, the procedure uses E2 Support Function signalling.

#### 8.3.3.2 Successful operation

When the conditions defined in clause 10 are fulfilled, the Error Indication procedure shall be initiated by an ERROR INDICATION message sent from the node detecting the error situation.

The ERROR INDICATION message shall contain at least either the Cause IE or the Criticality Diagnostics IE and may include RAN Function ID IE and RIC Request ID IE.

#### 8.3.3.3 Unsuccessful operation

Not applicable.

#### 8.3.3.4 Abnormal conditions

Not applicable.

### 8.3.4 RIC Service Update procedure

#### 8.3.4.1 General

The purpose of the RIC Service Update procedure is to update application level RIC Service related data needed for E2 Node and Near-RT RIC to interoperate correctly over the E2 interface.

This procedure shall be initiated by the E2 Node.

This procedure uses E2 Support Function signalling.

#### 8.3.4.2 Successful operation

An E2 Node initiates the procedure by sending a RIC SERVICE UPDATE message to the Near-RT RIC.

If the E2 Node has taken into operational use one or more RAN Functions supporting RIC Services, the RIC SERVICE UPDATE message shall include the RAN Functions Added List IE.

If the E2 Node has modified one or more RAN Functions supporting RIC Services, the RIC SERVICE UPDATE message shall include the RAN Functions Modified List IE.

If the E2 Node has removed from operational use one or more RAN Functions supporting RIC Services, the RIC SERVICE UPDATE message shall include the RAN Functions Deleted List IE.

Upon reception of a RIC SERVICE UPDATE message, Near-RT RIC shall update the application level data for E2 Node as follows:

- -	If the RAN Function Added List IE is contained in the RIC SERVICE UPDATE message, Near-RT RIC shall add each listed accepted RAN Function according to the information in the RAN Function ID IE and RAN Function Definition IE and store the corresponding RAN Function Revision IE.
- -	If the RAN Function Modified List IE is contained in the RIC SERVICE UPDATE message, Near-RT RIC shall modify accepted information of supported RAN Functions according to the information in the RAN Function Definition IE and update the corresponding RAN Function Revision IE.
- -	If the RAN Function Deleted List IE is contained in the RIC SERVICE UPDATE message, Near-RT RIC shall delete information of RAN Function indicated by the RAN Function ID IE along with the corresponding RAN Function Revision IE.
These changes may be processed in the Near-RT-RIC and may be used when issuing RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST and RIC CONTROL to provide valid RAN Function ID IE.

If at least one RAN Function update request present in the RIC SERVICE UPDATE message is successful, then the Near-RT RIC shall send the RIC SERVICE UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE message to the initiating E2 Node with:

- -	RAN Functions Accepted List IE indicating accepted requests to add, modify, and/or delete the corresponding RAN Function information.
- -	If required, the RAN Functions Rejected List IE indicating rejected requests to add, modify, and/or delete the corresponding RAN Function information.
-	If a RAN Function whose RAN Function Definition IE received in the RAN Functions Added List IE contains one or more RIC assistance services that the Near-RT RIC cannot support, but the RAN Function itself remains acceptable, the Near-RT RIC may, instead of rejecting the entire RAN Function, include it in the RAN Functions Accepted with Modification List IE of the RIC SERVICE UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE message, where the revised definition by the Revised RAN Function Definition IE excludes the unsupported RIC assistance services while retaining the rest of the services.

If the Near-RT RIC receives a RIC SERVICE UPDATE message without any IE except for Message Type IE, then the Near-RT RIC shall reply with RIC SERVICE UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE message without any IE except for Message Type IE, and shall not perform any updates to the existing application level data.

#### 8.3.4.3 Unsuccessful operation

If the Near-RT RIC cannot accept the update it shall respond with a RIC SERVICE UPDATE FAILURE message with an appropriate cause value.

If the RIC SERVICE UPDATE FAILURE message includes the Time To Wait IE, the E2 Node shall wait at least for the indicated time before reinitiating the RIC Service Update procedure towards the same Near-RT RIC. Both nodes shall continue to operate the E2 with their existing RIC Service data.

#### 8.3.4.4 Abnormal conditions

Void.

### 8.3.4A RIC Service Query procedure

#### 8.3.4A.1 General

The purpose of the RIC Service Query procedure is to ensure alignment between Near-RT RIC and E2 Node concerning application level RIC Service related data needed for E2 Node and Near-RT RIC to interoperate correctly over the E2 interface.

This procedure shall be initiated by the Near-RT RIC.

This procedure uses E2 Support Function signalling.

#### 8.3.4A.2 Successful operation

The Near-RT RIC initiates the procedure by sending a RIC SERVICE QUERY message to the E2 Node.

Upon reception of the RIC SERVICE QUERY message the E2 Node shall initiate the RIC Service Update procedure according to the following considerations:

- -	If the RAN Function Accepted List IE is not present in the RIC SERVICE QUERY message, the E2 Node shall send the RIC SERVICE UPDATE message with the complete list of supported RAN Functions in the RAN Function Added List IE.
- -	If the RAN Function Accepted List IE is present in the RIC SERVICE QUERY message and aligns with the list of supported RAN Functions at the E2 Node, the E2 Node shall send the RIC SERVICE UPDATE message without the RAN Function Added List IE, RAN Function Modified List IE and RAN Function Deleted List IE.
- -	If the RAN Function Accepted List IE is present in the RIC SERVICE QUERY message and the list of RAN Functions in the RAN Function Accepted List IE does not align with the list of supported RAN Functions at the E2 node, the E2 Node shall send the RIC SERVICE UPDATE message with the RAN Function Added List IE, RAN Function Modified List IE and/or RAN Function Deleted List IE to ensure realignment of RAN Functions between the E2 Node and the Near-RT RIC.
The Near-RT RIC completes the RIC Service Update procedure as described in clause 8.3.4.

#### 8.3.4A.3 Unsuccessful operation

Void.

#### 8.3.4A.4 Abnormal conditions

Void.

### 8.3.5 E2 Node Configuration Update procedure

#### 8.3.5.1 General

The purpose of the E2 Node Configuration Update procedure is to update application level E2 Node configuration data needed for E2 Node and Near-RT RIC to interoperate correctly over the E2 interface and to support E2 Node initiated TNL association removal.

This procedure shall be initiated by the E2 Node.

This procedure uses E2 Support Function signalling.

#### 8.3.5.2 Successful operation

An E2 Node initiates the procedure by sending a E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE message to the Near-RT RIC. The message shall include an appropriate set of up-to-date E2 Node-related configuration data that the E2 Node has just taken into operational use.

Upon reception of the E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE message, Near-RT RIC shall update the application level data for the E2 Node as follows:

Update of E2 Node configuration information in Near-RT RIC:

- -	If E2 Node Component Configuration Addition List IE is contained in the E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE message, Near-RT RIC shall add the E2 Node Component Configuration information accordingly.
- -	If E2 Node Component Configuration Update List IE is contained in the E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE message, Near-RT RIC shall modify the E2 Node Component Configuration information accordingly.
- -	If E2 Node Component Configuration Removal List IE is contained in the E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE message, Near-RT RIC shall remove the E2 Node Component Configuration information accordingly.
If Global E2 Node ID IE is contained in the E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE message for a newly established SCTP association, the Near-RT RIC shall associate the TNL association with the related E2 Node.

If the E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE message includes E2 Node TNL Association To Remove List IE, and the Endpoint IP address IE and the Port Number IE for both TNL endpoints of the TNL association(s) are included in the E2 Node TNL Association To Remove List IE, the Near-RT RIC shall, if supported, consider that the TNL association(s) indicated by both received TNL endpoints will be removed by the E2 Node.

If the E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE message includes E2 Node TNL Association To Remove List IE, and the Endpoint IP address IE, or the Endpoint IP address IE and the Port Number IE for one or both of the TNL endpoints is included in the E2 Node TNL Association To Remove List IE in E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE message, the Near-RT RIC shall, if supported, consider that the TNL association(s) indicated by the received endpoint IP address(es) will be removed by the E2 Node.

After successful update of requested information, Near-RT RIC shall reply with the E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE message to inform the initiating E2 Node that the requested update of application level data was performed successfully.

If the Near-RT RIC receives an E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE message without any IE except for Message Type IE and Transaction ID IE, the Near-RT RIC shall reply with the E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE message without performing any updates to the existing configuration.

#### 8.3.5.3 Unsuccessful operation

If Near-RT RIC cannot accept the E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE message it shall respond with the E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE FAILURE message with an appropriate cause value.

If the E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE FAILURE message includes the Time To Wait IE the E2 Node shall wait at least for the indicated time before reinitiating the E2 Node Configuration Update procedure towards the same Near-RT RIC.

If the Near-RT RIC receives an E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE message containing an E2 Node Component Configuration Update Item IE for an E2 Node component that was not previously declared by an E2 Node Component Configuration Addition Item IE then the Near-RT RIC shall indicate to the E2 Node that the update failed with appropriate cause value.

If the E2 Node Configuration Update procedure failure occurs, the Near-RT RIC and E2 Node shall continue to operate with their existing configuration data.

#### 8.3.5.4 Abnormal conditions

Void.

### 8.3.6 E2 Connection Update procedure

#### 8.3.6.1 General

The purpose of the E2 Connection Update procedure is to allow the Near-RT RIC to update the TNL information associated with the E2 interface connection between the E2 Node and Near-RT RIC.

This procedure shall be initiated by the Near-RT RIC.

This procedure uses E2 Support Function signalling.

#### 8.3.6.2 Successful operation

The Near-RT RIC initiates the procedure by sending a E2 CONNECTION UPDATE message to the E2 Node. The message shall include an appropriate set of up-to-date E2 interface connection data that the E2 Node shall take into account when modifying the E2 interface connection.

Upon reception of a E2 CONNECTION UPDATE message, the E2 Node shall update as follows:

- -	If E2 Connection To Add List IE is contained in the E2 CONNECTION UPDATE message, then the E2 Node shall, if supported, use the information to establish additional TNL Association(s) and configure for use for RIC services and/or E2 support functions according to the TNL Association Usage IE in the message.
- -	If E2 Connection To Modify List IE is contained in the E2 CONNECTION UPDATE message, then the E2 Node shall, if supported, use the information to modify the existing usage for RIC services and/or E2 support functions, according to the TNL Association Usage IE in the message.
- -	If E2 Connection To Remove List IE is contained in the E2 CONNECTION UPDATE message, then the E2 Node shall, if supported, use the information to remove the existing connection(s). If only one connection remains after successful removal of other connections, the E2 Node shall use this remaining connection for all the RIC services and E2 support functions.
After successful update of E2 interface connection(s), the E2 Node shall reply with the E2 CONNECTION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE message to inform the initiating Near-RT RIC that the requested E2 connection update was performed successfully.

If the E2 Node receives a E2 CONNECTION UPDATE message without any IE except for Message Type IE and Transaction ID IE, the E2 Node shall reply with the E2 CONNECTION ACKNOWLEDGE message without performing any updates to the existing connections.

E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE procedure shall be the first E2AP procedure triggered on an additional TNLA of an already setup E2 interface instance after the TNL association has become operational, and the Near-RT RIC shall associate the TNLA to the E2 interface instance using the included Global E2 Node ID.

An empty E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE message (i.e. without any IE expect for Message Type IE and Transaction ID IE) shall be sent by the Near-RT RIC as the first E2AP procedure on the new TNLA, if the E2 Node does not have any Configuration to be updated to Near-RT RIC.

#### 8.3.6.3 Unsuccessful operation

If the E2 Node cannot accept the update, it shall respond with a E2 CONNECTION UPDATE FAILURE message with an appropriate cause value.

If the E2 CONNECTION UPDATE FAILURE message includes the Time To Wait IE, the Near-RT RIC shall wait at least for the indicated time before reinitiating the E2 Connection Update procedure towards the same E2 Node. Both nodes shall continue to operate with their existing connection(s).

#### 8.3.6.4 Abnormal conditions

Void.

### 8.3.7 E2 Removal procedure

#### 8.3.7.1 General

The purpose of the E2 removal procedure is to remove the E2 signalling connection between the Near-RT RIC and the E2 node in a controlled manner.

This procedure shall be initiated by the E2 Node or the Near-RT RIC.

This procedure uses E2 Support Function signalling.

#### 8.3.7.2 Successful operation

This procedure may be initiated by either Near-RT RIC or E2 Node.

Successful E2 Removal, E2 Node initiated

The E2 Node shall initiate the procedure by sending the E2 REMOVAL REQUEST message to the Near-RT RIC.

Upon reception of the E2 REMOVAL REQUEST message, the Near-RT RIC shall reply with the E2 REMOVAL RESPONSE message.

After receiving the E2 REMOVAL RESPONSE message, the E2 Node shall initiate removal of the TNL association towards the Near-RT RIC, and shall release all resources associated with that E2 signalling connection.

The Near-RT RIC shall then release all resources associated with that E2 signalling connection and erase all application level data.

Successful E2 Removal, Near-RT RIC initiated

The Near-RT RIC shall initiate the procedure by sending the E2 REMOVAL REQUEST message to the E2 node.

Upon reception of the E2 REMOVAL REQUEST message, the E2 node shall reply with the E2 REMOVAL RESPONSE message.

After receiving the E2 REMOVAL RESPONSE message, the Near-RT RIC may initiate removal of the TNL association towards the E2 node, and shall release all resources associated with that E2 signalling connection and erase all application level data.

The E2 node shall then release all resources associated with that E2 signalling connection.

Interactions with other procedures:

If the E2 REMOVAL REQUEST message is received, any other ongoing procedure on the same E2 interface related to ongoing RIC Services shall be aborted.

#### 8.3.7.3 Unsuccessful operation

If the E2 Node cannot accept the E2 REMOVAL REQUEST it shall respond with E2 REMOVAL FAILURE message with an appropriate cause value.

If the Near-RT RIC cannot accept the E2 REMOVAL REQUEST it shall respond with E2 REMOVAL FAILURE message with an appropriate cause value.

#### 8.3.7.4 Abnormal conditions

Void.

### 8.3.8 E2 Resource Status Procedure

8.3.8.1	General

This procedure is used to report the E2 Node Resource information.

This procedure shall be initiated by the Near-RT RIC.

This procedure uses E2 Support Function signalling.

8.3.8.2	Successful operation

@startuml

skin rose

skinparam ParticipantPadding 5

skinparam BoxPadding 10

skinparam lifelineStrategy solid

participant "Near-RT RIC" as near

participant "E2 Node" as ran

near->ran: E2 RESOURCE STATUS REQUEST

near<-ran: E2 RESOURCE STATUS RESPONSE

@enduml

The Near-RT RIC initiates the procedure by sending an E2 RESOURCE STATUS REQUEST message to the E2 Node.

Upon reception of the E2 RESOURCE STATUS REQUEST message the E2 Node shall process the message according to the following considerations:

The E2 Node:

-	Shall initiate the requested load measurement according to the parameters given in the request in case the Registration Request IE set to "start"; or

-	Shall stop all load measurements and terminate the reporting in case the Registration Request IE is set to "stop"; or

-	Shall add the load measurement indicated in the request to the load measurements initiated before for the given measurement IDs, in case the Registration Request IE is set to "add". If load measurements are already initiated for the requested load measurement, this information shall be ignored.

If the E2 Node is capable to provide all requested resource status information, it shall initiate the measurement as requested by the Near-RT RIC, and respond with the E2 RESOURCE STATUS RESPONSE message

Interaction with other procedures

When starting a measurement, the Report Characteristics IE in the E2 RESOURCE STATUS REQUEST indicates the type of objects the E2 Node shall perform load measurements on. The E2 Node shall include in the E2 RESOURCE STATUS UPDATE message:

-	the TNL Capacity Indicator IE, if the first bit, "TNL Capacity Ind Periodic" of the Report Characteristics IE included in the E2 RESOURCE STATUS REQUEST message is set to 1;

-     the Hardware Load Indicator IE, if the second bit, "HW Load Ind Periodic" of the Report Characteristics IE included in the E2 RESOURCE STATUS REQUEST message is set to 1;

If the Reporting Periodicity IE in the E2 RESOURCE STATUS REQUEST is present, this indicates the periodicity for the reporting of periodic measurements. The E2 Node shall report once, unless otherwise requested within the Reporting Periodicity IE.

8.3.8.3	Unsuccessful operation

@startuml

skin rose

skinparam ParticipantPadding 5

skinparam BoxPadding 10

skinparam lifelineStrategy solid

participant "Near-RT RIC" as near

participant "E2 Node" as ran

near->ran: E2 RESOURCE STATUS REQUEST

near<-ran: E2 RESOURCE STATUS FAILURE

@enduml

If any of the requested load measurements cannot be initiated, the E2 Node shall send the E2 RESOURCE STATUS FAILURE message with an appropriate cause value.

8.3.8.4	Abnormal conditions

If the Near-RT RIC does not receive either the E2 RESOURCE STATUS RESPONSE message or the E2 RESOURCE STATUS FAILURE message, the Near-RT RIC may reinitiate the E2 Resource Status Reporting Initiation procedure towards the same E2 Node, provided that the content of the new E2 RESOURCE STATUS REQUEST message is identical to the content of the previously unacknowledged E2 RESOURCE STATUS REQUEST message with the same Transaction ID.

If the E2 Node receives an E2 RESOURCE STATUS REQUEST message which includes the Registration Request IE set to "start" and the RIC Load Measurement ID IE corresponding to an existing on-going measurement reporting, for which a different Transaction ID is used, then the E2 Node shall initiate an E2 RESOURCE STATUS FAILURE message with an appropriate cause value.

If the E2 Node receives an E2 RESOURCE STATUS REQUEST message which includes the Registration Request IE set to "add" or "stop" and if the E2 Node Load Measurement ID value received in the E2 RESOURCE STATUS REQUEST message is not used, the E2 Node shall initiate an E2 RESOURCE STATUS FAILURE message with an appropriate cause value.

If the Report Characteristics IE bitmap is set to "0" (all bits are set to "0") in the E2 RESOURCE STATUS REQUEST message then the E2 Node shall initiate an E2 RESOURCE STATUS FAILURE message with an appropriate cause value.

### 8.3.9 E2 Resource Status Update procedure

8.3.9.1	General

The purpose of the E2 Resource Status Update procedure is to inform the Near-RT RIC of the E2 Node resource status.

This procedure shall be initiated by the E2 Node.

8.3.9.2	Successful operation

@startuml

skin rose

skinparam ParticipantPadding 5

skinparam BoxPadding 10

skinparam lifelineStrategy solid

participant "Near-RT RIC" as near

participant "E2 Node" as ran

ran->near: E2 RESOURCE STATUS UPDATE

@enduml

The E2 Node shall report the results of the admitted measurements in the E2 RESOURCE STATUS UPDATE message. The admitted measurements are the measurements that were successfully initiated during the preceding E2 Resource Status Reporting Initiation procedure.

8.3.9.3	Unsuccessful operation

Void.

8.3.9.4	Abnormal conditions

Void.

# 9 Elements for E2AP communication

## 9.0 General

Clauses 9.1 and 9.2 describe the structure of the messages and information elements required for the E2AP protocol in tabular format. Clause 9.3 provides the corresponding ASN.1 definition.

The following attributes are used for the tabular description of the messages and information elements: Presence, Range Criticality and Assigned Criticality. Their definition and use can be found in 3GPP TS 36.413 [24].

> NOTE:	The messages have been defined in accordance with the guidelines specified in 3GPP TR 25.921 [i.2].

## 9.1 Message functional definition and content

### 9.1.1 Messages for RIC Functional procedures

#### 9.1.1.1 RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST

This message is sent by the Near-RT RIC to an E2 Node to create a new RIC Subscription in the E2 Node.

Direction: Near-RT RIC  E2 Node.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Request ID | M |  | 9.2.7 | YES | reject |  |
| RAN Function ID | M |  | 9.2.8 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Subscription Details | M |  | YES | reject |  |  |
| >RIC Event Trigger Definition | M |  | 9.2.9 | - |  |  |
| >Sequence of Actions |  | 1.. <maxofRICactionID> | EACH | ignore |  |  |
| >>RIC Action ID | M |  | 9.2.10 | - |  |  |
| >>RIC Action Type | M |  | 9.2.11 | - |  |  |
| >>RIC Action Definition | O |  | 9.2.12 | - |  |  |
| >>RIC Subsequent Action | O |  | 9.2.13 | - |  |  |
| >>RIC Action Execution Order | O |  | 9.2.35 | Used to define a specific execution order. | - |  |
| RIC Subscription Start Time | O |  | 9.2.34 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Subscription End Time | O |  | 9.2.34 | YES | reject |  |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxofRICActionID | Maximum no. of Actions to be requested by Near-RT RIC. Value is 16. |

#### 9.1.1.2 RIC SUBSCRIPTION RESPONSE

This message is sent by the E2 Node to accept the request from the Near-RT RIC to create a new RIC Subscription in the E2 Node.

Direction: E2 Node  Near-RT RIC.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Request ID | M |  | 9.2.7 | YES | reject |  |
| RAN Function ID | M |  | 9.2.8 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Actions Admitted List |  | 1.. <maxofRICactionID> | YES | reject |  |  |
| >RIC Action ID | M |  | 9.2.10 | - |  |  |
| RIC Actions Not Admitted List |  | 0.. <maxofRICactionID> | YES | reject |  |  |
| >RIC Action ID | M |  | 9.2.10 | - |  |  |
| >Cause | M |  | 9.2.1 | - |  |  |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxofRICActionID | Maximum no. of Actions to be requested by Near-RT RIC. Value is 16. |

#### 9.1.1.3 RIC SUBSCRIPTION FAILURE

This message is sent by the E2 Node to inform the Near-RT RIC that the request to create a new RIC Subscription in the E2 Node failed.

Direction: E2 Node  Near-RT RIC.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Request ID | M |  | 9.2.7 | YES | reject |  |
| RAN Function ID | M |  | 9.2.8 | YES | reject |  |
| Cause | M |  | 9.2.1 | YES | reject |  |
| Criticality Diagnostics | O |  | 9.2.2 | YES | ignore |  |

#### 9.1.1.4 RIC SUBSCRIPTION DELETE REQUEST

This message is sent by the Near-RT RIC to an E2 Node to request the deletion of an existing Subscription in the E2 Node.

Direction: Near-RT RIC  E2 Node.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Request ID | M |  | 9.2.7 | YES | reject |  |
| RAN Function ID | M |  | 9.2.8 | YES | reject |  |

#### 9.1.1.5 RIC SUBSCRIPTION DELETE RESPONSE

This message is sent by the E2 Node to accept the request from a Near-RT RIC to delete an existing RIC Subscription in the E2 Node

Direction: E2 Node  Near-RT RIC.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Request ID | M |  | 9.2.7 | YES | reject |  |
| RAN Function ID | M |  | 9.2.8 | YES | reject |  |

#### 9.1.1.6 RIC SUBSCRIPTION DELETE FAILURE

This message is sent by the E2 Node to inform the Near-RT RIC that the request to delete an existing RIC Subscription in the E2 Node failed.

Direction: E2 Node  Near-RT RIC.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Request ID | M |  | 9.2.7 | YES | reject |  |
| RAN Function ID | M |  | 9.2.8 | YES | reject |  |
| Cause | M |  | 9.2.1 | YES | ignore |  |
| Criticality Diagnostics | O |  | 9.2.2 | YES | ignore |  |

#### 9.1.1.6A RIC SUBSCRIPTION DELETE REQUIRED

This message is sent by the E2 Node to request deletion of the existing RIC Subscriptions in the E2 Node.

Direction: E2 Node  Near-RT RIC.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| List of RIC Subscriptions To Be Removed |  | 1.. <maxofRICrequestID> | EACH | ignore |  |  |
| >RIC Request ID | M |  | 9.2.7 | - |  |  |
| >RAN Function ID | M |  | 9.2.8 | - |  |  |
| >Cause | M |  | 9.2.1 | - |  |  |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxofRICrequestID | Maximum no. of RIC subscription requests supported by Near-RT RIC toward an E2 Node. Value is <1024>. |

#### 9.1.1.7 RIC INDICATION

This message is sent by an E2 Node to transfer Report and Insert RIC Service Action information to a Near-RT RIC.

Direction: E2 Node  Near-RT RIC.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Request ID | M |  | 9.2.7 | YES | reject |  |
| RAN Function ID | M |  | 9.2.8 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Action ID | M |  | 9.2.10 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Indication SN | O |  | 9.2.14 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Indication Type | M |  | 9.2.15 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Indication Header | M |  | 9.2.17 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Indication Message | M |  | 9.2.16 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Call process ID | O |  | 9.2.18 | YES | reject |  |

#### 9.1.1.8 RIC CONTROL REQUEST

This message is sent by a Near-RT RIC to an E2 Node to initiate or resume a control function logic.

Direction: Near-RT RIC  E2 Node.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Request ID | M |  | 9.2.7 | YES | reject |  |
| RAN Function ID | M |  | 9.2.8 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Call Process ID | O |  | 9.2.18 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Control Header | M |  | 9.2.20 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Control Message | M |  | 9.2.19 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Control Ack Request | O |  | 9.2.21 | YES | reject |  |

#### 9.1.1.9 RIC CONTROL ACKNOWLEDGE

This message is sent by the E2 Node to inform the Near-RT RIC that the RIC CONTROL REQUEST message was received and to provide information on the outcome of the request.

Direction: E2 Node  Near-RT RIC.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Request ID | M |  | 9.2.7 | YES | reject |  |
| RAN Function ID | M |  | 9.2.8 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Call process ID | O |  | 9.2.18 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Control Outcome | O |  | 9.2.25 | YES | reject |  |

#### 9.1.1.10 RIC CONTROL FAILURE

This message is sent by the E2 Node to inform the Near-RT RIC that the RIC CONTROL REQUEST message has failed to be executed.

Direction: E2 Node  Near-RT RIC.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Request ID | M |  | 9.2.7 | YES | reject |  |
| RAN Function ID | M |  | 9.2.8 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Call process ID | O |  | 9.2.18 | YES | reject |  |
| Cause | M |  | 9.2.1 | YES | ignore |  |
| RIC Control Outcome | O |  | 9.2.25 | YES | Reject |  |
| Criticality Diagnostics | O |  | 9.2.2 | YES | ignore |  |

#### 9.1.1.11 RIC SUBSCRIPTION MODIFICATION REQUEST

This message is sent by the Near-RT RIC to an E2 Node to modify an existing Subscription in the E2 Node.

Direction: Near-RT RIC  E2 Node.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Request ID | M |  | 9.2.7 | YES | reject |  |
| RAN Function ID | M |  | 9.2.8 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Event Trigger Definition to be Modified | O |  | 9.2.9 | YES | ignore |  |
| RIC Actions to be Removed List |  | 0..1 | YES | ignore |  |  |
| >Action to be Removed Item IEs |  | 1..<maxofRICactionID> | EACH | ignore |  |  |
| >>RIC Action ID | M |  | 9.2.10 | - |  |  |
| RIC Actions to be Modified List |  | 0..1 | YES | ignore |  |  |
| >Action to be Modified Item IEs |  | 1..<maxofRICactionID> | EACH | ignore |  |  |
| >>RIC Action ID | M |  | 9.2.10 | - |  |  |
| >>RIC Action Definition | O |  | 9.2.12 | - |  |  |
| >>RIC Action Execution Order | O |  | 9.2.35 |  |  |  |
| >>RIC Subsequent Action | O |  | 9.2.13 | - |  |  |
| RIC Actions to be Added List |  | 0..1 | YES | ignore |  |  |
| >Action to be Added Item IEs |  | 1..<maxofRICactionID> | EACH | ignore |  |  |
| >>RIC Action ID | M |  | 9.2.10 | - |  |  |
| >>RIC Action Type | M |  | 9.2.11 | - |  |  |
| >>RIC Action Definition | M |  | 9.2.12 | - |  |  |
| >>RIC Action Execution Order | M |  | 9.2.35 |  |  |  |
| >>RIC Subsequent Action | O |  | 9.2.13 | - |  |  |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxofRICActionID | Maximum no. of Actions to be requested by Near-RT RIC. Value is 16. |

#### 9.1.1.12 RIC SUBSCRIPTION MODIFICATION RESPONSE

This message is sent by the E2 Node to accept the request from the Near-RT RIC to modify an existing E2 subscription in the E2 Node.

Direction: E2 Node  Near-RT RIC.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Request ID | M |  | 9.2.7 | YES | reject |  |
| RAN Function ID | M |  | 9.2.8 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Actions Removed List |  | 0..1 | YES | ignore |  |  |
| >Action Removed Item IEs |  | 1..<maxofRICactionID> | EACH | ignore |  |  |
| >>RIC Action ID | M |  | 9.2.10 | - |  |  |
| RIC Actions Failed to be Removed List |  | 0..1 | YES | ignore |  |  |
| >Action Failed to be Removed Item IEs |  | 1..<maxofRICactionID> | EACH | ignore |  |  |
| >>RIC Action ID | M |  | 9.2.10 | - |  |  |
| >>Cause | M |  | 9.2.1 | - |  |  |
| RIC Actions Modified List |  | 0..1 | YES | ignore |  |  |
| >Action Modified Item IEs |  | 1..<maxofRICactionID> | EACH | ignore |  |  |
| >>RIC Action ID | M |  | 9.2.10 | - |  |  |
| RIC Actions Failed to be Modified List |  | 0..1 | YES | ignore |  |  |
| >Action Failed to be Modified Item IEs |  | 1..<maxofRICactionID> | EACH | ignore |  |  |
| >>RIC Action ID | M |  | 9.2.10 | - |  |  |
| >>Cause | M |  | 9.2.1 | - |  |  |
| RIC Actions Added List |  | 0..1 | YES | ignore |  |  |
| >Action Added Item IEs |  | 1..<maxofRICactionID> | EACH | ignore |  |  |
| >>RIC Action ID | M |  | 9.2.10 | - |  |  |
| RIC Actions Failed to be Added List |  | 0..1 | YES | ignore |  |  |
| >Action Failed to be Added Item IEs |  | 1..<maxofRICactionID> | EACH | Ignore |  |  |
| >>RIC Action ID | M |  | 9.2.10 | - |  |  |
| >>Cause | M |  | 9.2.1 | - |  |  |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxofRICActionID | Maximum no. of Actions to be requested by Near-RT RIC. Value is 16. |

#### 9.1.1.13 RIC SUBSCRIPTION MODIFICATION FAILURE

This message is sent by the E2 Node to inform the Near-RT RIC that the request to modify an existing E2 subscription in the E2 Node failed.

Direction: E2 Node  Near-RT RIC.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Request ID | M |  | 9.2.7 | YES | reject |  |
| RAN Function ID | M |  | 9.2.8 | YES | reject |  |
| Cause | M |  | 9.2.1 | YES | reject |  |
| Criticality Diagnostics | O |  | 9.2.2 | YES | ignore |  |

#### 9.1.1.14 RIC SUBSCRIPTION MODIFICATION REQUIRED

This message is sent by the E2 Node to request the Near-RT RIC to modify an existing E2 subscription in the E2 Node.

Direction: E2 Node  Near-RT RIC.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Request ID | M |  | 9.2.7 | YES | reject |  |
| RAN Function ID | M |  | 9.2.8 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Actions Required to be Modified List |  | 0..1 | YES | ignore |  |  |
| >Action Required to be Modified Item IEs |  | EACH | ignore |  |  |  |
| >>RIC Action ID | M |  | 9.2.10 | - |  |  |
| >>RIC Time to Wait before subsequent action | M |  | ENUMERATED (1ms, 2ms, 5ms, 10ms, 20ms, 30ms, 40ms, 50ms, 100ms, 200ms, 500ms, 1s, 2s, 5s, 10s, 20s, 60s, …) | - |  |  |
| RIC Actions Required to be Removed List |  | 0..1 | YES | ignore |  |  |
| >Action Required to be Removed Item IEs |  | 1..<maxofRICactionID> | EACH | ignore |  |  |
| >>RIC Action ID | M |  | 9.2.10 | - |  |  |
| >>Cause | M |  | 9.2.1 | - |  |  |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxofRICActionID | Maximum no. of Actions to be requested by Near-RT RIC. Value is 16. |

#### 9.1.1.15 RIC SUBSCRIPTION MODIFICATION CONFIRM

This message is sent by the Near-RT RIC to accept the request from the E2 Node to modify an existing E2 subscription in the E2 Node.

Direction: Near-RT RIC  E2 Node.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Request ID | M |  | 9.2.7 | YES | reject |  |
| RAN Function ID | M |  | 9.2.8 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Actions Confirmed for Modification List |  | 0..1 | YES | ignore |  |  |
| >RIC Action Confirmed for Modification Item IEs |  | 1..<maxofRICactionID> | EACH | ignore |  |  |
| >>RIC Action ID | M |  | 9.2.10 | - |  |  |
| RIC Actions Refused to be Modified List |  | 0..1 | YES | ignore |  |  |
| >Action Refused to be Modified Item IEs |  | 1..<maxofRICactionID> | EACH | ignore |  |  |
| >>RIC Action ID | M |  | 9.2.10 | - |  |  |
| >>Cause | M |  | 9.2.1 | - |  |  |
| RIC Actions Confirmed for Removal List |  | 0..1 | YES | ignore |  |  |
| >Action Confirmed for Removal Item IEs |  | 1..<maxofRICactionID> | EACH | ignore |  |  |
| >>RIC Action ID | M |  | 9.2.10 | - |  |  |
| RIC Actions Refused to be Removed List |  | 0..1 | YES | ignore |  |  |
| >Action Refused to be Removed Item IEs |  | 1..<maxofRICactionID> | EACH | ignore |  |  |
| >>RIC Action ID | M |  | 9.2.10 | - |  |  |
| >>Cause | M |  | 9.2.1 | - |  |  |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxofRICActionID | Maximum no. of Actions to be requested by Near-RT RIC. Value is 16. |

#### 9.1.1.16 RIC SUBSCRIPTION MODIFICATION REFUSE

This message is sent by the Near-RT RIC to deny the request from the E2 Node to modify an existing E2 subscription in the E2 Node.

Direction: Near-RT RIC  E2 Node.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Request ID | M |  | 9.2.7 | YES | reject |  |
| RAN Function ID | M |  | 9.2.8 | YES | reject |  |
| Cause | M |  | 9.2.1 | YES | reject |  |
| Criticality Diagnostics | O |  | 9.2.2 | YES | ignore |  |

#### 9.1.1.17 RIC QUERY REQUEST

This message is sent by the Near-RT RIC to an E2 Node to request RAN and/or UE related information from the E2 Node.

Direction: Near-RT RIC  E2 Node.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Request ID | M |  | 9.2.7 | YES | reject |  |
| RAN Function ID | M |  | 9.2.8 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Query Header | M |  | 9.2.36 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Query Definition | M |  | 9.2.37 | YES | reject |  |

#### 9.1.1.18 RIC QUERY RESPONSE

This message is sent by the E2 Node to Near-RT RIC in response to RAN and/or UE related information requested by Near-RT RIC.

Direction: E2 Node  Near-RT RIC.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Request ID | M |  | 9.2.7 | YES | reject |  |
| RAN Function ID | M |  | 9.2.8 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Query Outcome | M |  | 9.2.38 | YES | reject |  |

#### 9.1.1.19 RIC QUERY FAILURE

This message is sent by the E2 Node to inform the Near-RT RIC that the requested RAN and/or UE related Information has failed.

Direction: E2 Node  Near-RT RIC.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Request ID | M |  | 9.2.7 | YES | reject |  |
| RAN Function ID | M |  | 9.2.8 | YES | reject |  |
| Cause | M |  | 9.2.1 | YES | reject |  |
| Criticality Diagnostics | O |  | 9.2.2 | YES | ignore |  |

#### 9.1.1.20 RIC SUBSCRIPTION AUDIT REQUEST

This message is sent by the Near-RT RIC to an E2 Node to initiate the RIC Subscription Audit procedure in the E2 Node.

Direction: Near-RT RIC  E2 Node.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Request ID | M |  | 9.2.7 | RIC Request ID for RIC Subscription Audit procedure. | YES | reject |
| RIC Subscription Audit Flag | O |  | 9.2.39 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Subscription Audit List | O |  | YES | reject |  |  |
| >Sequence of RIC Subscriptions |  | 1.. <maxofRICsubscriptions> | EACH | ignore |  |  |
| >>RIC Request ID | M |  | 9.2.7 | RIC Request ID for previously established RIC Subscription. | - |  |
| >>RAN Function ID | M |  | 9.2.8 | - |  |  |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxofRICsubscriptions | Maximum no. of RIC Subscriptions to be provided by Near-RT RIC. Value is 2147483648. |

#### 9.1.1.21 RIC SUBSCRIPTION AUDIT RESPONSE

This message is sent by the E2 Node to accept the request from the Near-RT RIC to initiate a RIC Subscription Audit in the E2 Node.

Direction: E2 Node  Near-RT RIC.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Request ID | M |  | 9.2.7 | RIC Request ID for RIC Subscription Audit procedure. | YES | reject |
| RIC Subscription Confirmed List | O |  | YES | reject |  |  |
| >Sequence of RIC Subscriptions |  | 1.. <maxofRICsubscriptions> | EACH | ignore |  |  |
| >>RIC Request ID | M |  | 9.2.7 | RIC Request ID for previously established RIC Subscription. | - |  |
| >>RAN Function ID | M |  | 9.2.8 | - |  |  |
| >>RIC Action Admitted List | M | 1.. <maxofRICactionID> |  |  |  |  |
| >>>RIC Action ID | M |  | 9.2.10 |  |  |  |
| RIC Subscription Unknown List | O |  | YES | reject |  |  |
| >Sequence of RIC Subscriptions |  | 1.. <maxofRICsubscriptions> | EACH | ignore |  |  |
| >>RIC Request ID | M |  | 9.2.7 | RIC Request ID for previously established RIC Subscription. | - |  |
| >>RAN Function ID | M |  | 9.2.8 | - |  |  |
| RIC Subscription Missing List | O |  | YES | reject |  |  |
| >Sequence of RIC Subscriptions |  | 1.. <maxofRICsubscriptions> | EACH | ignore |  |  |
| >>RIC Request ID | M |  | 9.2.7 | RIC Request ID for previously established RIC Subscription. | - |  |
| >>RAN Function ID | M |  | 9.2.8 | - |  |  |
| >>RIC Action Admitted List | M | 1.. <maxofRICactionID> |  |  |  |  |
| >>>RIC Action ID | M |  | 9.2.10 |  |  |  |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxofRICsubscriptions | Maximum no. of RIC Subscriptions to be provided by Near-RT RIC. Value is 2147483648. |
| maxofRICActionID | Maximum no. of Actions to be requested by Near-RT RIC. Value is 16. |

#### 9.1.1.22 RIC SUBSCRIPTION AUDIT FAILURE

This message is sent by the E2 Node to inform the Near-RT RIC that the request to perform the RIC Subscription Audit in the E2 Node failed.

Direction: E2 Node  Near-RT RIC.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Request ID | M |  | 9.2.7 | YES | reject |  |
| Cause | M |  | 9.2.1 | YES | reject |  |
| Criticality Diagnostics | O |  | 9.2.2 | YES | ignore |  |

#### 9.1.1.23 RIC SERVICE LOAD STATUS REQUEST

This message is sent by the Near-RT RIC to an E2 Node to request load reporting for one or more RIC Services.

Direction: Near-RT RIC  E2 Node.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Load Measurement ID | M |  | 9.2.40 | Allocated by Near-RT RIC | YES | reject |
| E2 Node Load Measurement ID | C-ifRegistrationRequestStoporAdd |  | 9.2.40 | Allocated by E2 Node | YES | ignore |
| Registration Request | M |  | ENUMERATED (start, stop, add, …) | Type of request for which the RIC Service Load status is required. | YES | ignore |
| RAN Function Load Request List | C-ifRegistrationRequestStartorAdd | 1.. <maxofRANfunctionID> |  | List of RAN functions requested to provide load information | EACH | reject |
| >RAN Function ID | M |  | 9.2.8 | Id of the declared Function | - |  |
| >RAN Function Load Request | O |  | 9.2.43 | Used to request reporting of overall RAN Function load information | - |  |
| >RIC Service Load Request | O |  | 9.2.44 | Used to request reporting of  overall RIC Service load information | - |  |
| >RIC Subscription Load Request List |  | 0..<maxofRICrequestID> | EACH | reject |  |  |
| >>RIC Request ID | M |  | 9.2.7 | - |  |  |
| >>RIC Subscription Load Request | O |  | 9.2.43 | Used to request reporting of overall RIC Subscription load information | - |  |
| >>RIC Action Load Request List |  | 0..<maxofRICactionID> | EACH | reject |  |  |
| >>>RIC Action ID | M |  | 9.2.10 | - |  |  |
| >>>RIC Action Load Request | M |  | 9.2.43 | Used to request reporting of overall RIC Action load information | - |  |
| Reporting Periodicity | O |  | ENUMERATED (500ms, 1000ms, 2000ms, 5000ms,10000ms, …) | Periodicity that can be used for reporting of indicated measurements. Also used as the averaging window length for all measurement object if supported. This IE is ignored if the Registration Request IE is set to “add”. | YES | ignore |

| Condition | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| ifRegistrationRequestStoporAdd | This IE shall be present if the Registration Request IE is set to the value "stop" or "add". |
| ifRegistrationRequestStartorAdd | This IE shall be present if the Registration Request IE is set to the value "start" or “add”. |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxofRANfunctionID | Maximum no. of RAN Functions supported by E2 Node. Value is 256. |
| maxofRICrequestID | Maximum no. of RIC subscription requests supported by Near-RT RIC toward an E2 Node. Value is <1024>. |
| maxofRICActionID | Maximum no. of Actions to be requested by Near-RT RIC. Value is 16. |

#### 9.1.2.24 RIC SERVICE LOAD STATUS RESPONSE

This message is sent by the E2 Node to the Near-RT RIC to accept the request for load reporting for one or more RIC Services.

Direction: E2 Node  Near-RT RIC.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Load Measurement ID | M |  | 9.2.40 | Allocated by Near-RT RIC | YES | reject |
| E2 Node Load Measurement ID | M |  | 9.2.40 | Allocated by E2 Node | YES | ignore |
| RAN Function Load Confirm List | C-ifRegistrationRequestStartorAdd | 1.. <maxofRANfunctionID> |  | List of RAN functions | EACH | reject |
| >RAN Function ID | M |  | 9.2.8 | Id of the declared Function | - |  |
| >RAN Function Load Confirm | O |  | 9.2.45 | Used to confirm RAN Function level load reporting | - |  |
| >RIC Service Load Confirm | O |  | 9.2.46 | Used to confirm RIC Service load reporting | - |  |
| >RIC Subscription Load Confirm List |  | 0..<maxofRICrequestID> | EACH | reject |  |  |
| >>RIC Request ID | M |  | 9.2.7 | - |  |  |
| >>RIC Subscription Load Confirm | O |  | 9.2.45 | Used to confirm RIC Subscription level load reporting | - |  |
| >>RIC Action List |  | 0..<maxofRICactionID> | EACH | reject |  |  |
| >>>RIC Action ID | M |  | 9.2.10 | - |  |  |
| >>>RIC Action Load Confirm | M |  | 9.2.45 | Used to confirm RIC Action level load reporting | - |  |

| Condition | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| ifRegistrationRequestStartorAdd | This IE shall be present if the Registration Request IE in RIC SERVICE LOAD STATUS REQUEST was set to the value "start" or "add". |

#### 9.1.2.25 RIC SERVICE LOAD STATUS FAILURE

This message is sent by the E2 Node to inform the Near-RT RIC that the request for load reporting for one or more RIC Services failed.

Direction: E2 Node  Near-RT RIC.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Load Measurement ID | M |  | 9.2.40 | Allocated by Near-RT RIC | YES | reject |
| E2 Node Load Measurement ID | M |  | 9.2.40 | Allocated by E2 Node | YES | ignore |
| Cause | M |  | 9.2.1 | YES | ignore |  |
| Criticality Diagnostics | O |  | 9.2.2 | YES | ignore |  |

#### 9.1.1.26 RIC SERVICE LOAD UPDATE

This message is sent by an E2 Node to a Near-RT RIC to transfer RIC Service load status information.

Direction: E2 Node  Near-RT RIC

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Load Measurement ID | M |  | 9.2.40 | Allocated by Near-RT RIC | YES | reject |
| E2 Node Load Measurement ID | M |  | 9.2.40 | Allocated by E2 Node | YES | ignore |
| RAN Function Load List |  | 1.. <maxofRANfunctionID> | List of RAN functions with load information | EACH | reject |  |
| >RAN Function ID | M |  | 9.2.8 | Id of the declared Function | - |  |
| >RAN Function Load Information | O |  | 9.2.41 | Used to provide overall RAN Function load information | - |  |
| >RIC Service Load Information | O |  | 9.2.42 | Used to provide overall RIC Service load information | - |  |
| >RIC Subscription Load List |  | 0.. <maxofRICrequestID> | EACH | reject |  |  |
| >>RIC Request ID | M |  | 9.2.7 | - |  |  |
| >>RIC Subscription Load Information | O |  | 9.2.41 | Used to provide overall RIC Subscription load information | - |  |
| >>RIC Action Load List |  | 0.. <maxofRICactionID> | EACH | reject |  |  |
| >>>RIC Action ID | M |  | 9.2.10 | - |  |  |
| >>>RIC Action Load Information | M |  | 9.2.41 | Used to provide overall RIC Action load information | - |  |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxofRANfunctionID | Maximum no. of RAN Functions supported by E2 Node. Value is 256. |
| maxofRICrequestID | Maximum no. of RIC subscription requests supported by Near-RT RIC toward an E2 Node. Value is <1024>. |
| maxofRICActionID | Maximum no. of Actions to be requested by Near-RT RIC. Value is 16. |

#### 9.1.1.27 RIC SUBSCRIPTION STATE CONTROL REQUEST

This message is sent by the Near-RT RIC to an E2 Node to suspend and/or resume one or more RIC Subscriptions.

Direction: Near-RT RIC  E2 Node.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Request ID | M |  | 9.2.7 | YES | reject |  |
| RAN Function State Control List |  | 1.. <maxofRANfunctionID> | List of RAN functions with RIC subscriptions | EACH | reject |  |
| >RAN Function ID | M |  | 9.2.8 | Id of the declared Function | - |  |
| >RIC Subscription To Be Suspended List |  | 0.. <maxofRICrequestID> | EACH | reject |  |  |
| >>RIC Request ID | M |  | 9.2.7 | RIC Request ID of RIC Subscription to be suspended | - |  |
| >>RIC Action List |  | 0.. <maxofRICactionID> | If present, then only the nominated RIC Actions are to be suspended | EACH | reject |  |
| >>>RIC Action ID | M |  | 9.2.10 | - |  |  |
| >RIC Subscription To Be Resumed List |  | 0.. <maxofRICrequestID> | EACH | reject |  |  |
| >>RIC Request ID | M |  | 9.2.7 | RIC Request ID of RIC Subscription to be resumed | - |  |
| >>RIC Action List |  | 0.. <maxofRICactionID> | If present, then only the nominated RIC Actions are to be resumed | EACH | reject |  |
| >>>RIC Action ID | M |  | 9.2.10 | - |  |  |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxofRANfunctionID | Maximum no. of RAN Functions supported by E2 Node. Value is 256. |
| maxofRICrequestID | Maximum no. of RIC subscription requests supported by Near-RT RIC toward an E2 Node. Value is <1024>. |

#### 9.1.1.28 RIC SUBSCRIPTION STATE CONTROL RESPONSE

This message is sent by the E2 Node to the Near-RT RIC to accept the request to suspend and/or resume one or more RIC Subscriptions.

Direction: E2 Node  Near-RT RIC.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Request ID | M |  | 9.2.7 | YES | reject |  |
| RAN Function State Confirm List |  | 1.. <maxofRANfunctionID> | List of RAN functions with RIC subscriptions | EACH | reject |  |
| >RAN Function ID | M |  | 9.2.8 | Id of the declared Function | - |  |
| >RIC Subscription Suspended List |  | 0.. <maxofRICrequestID> | EACH | reject |  |  |
| >>RIC Request ID | M |  | 9.2.7 | RIC Request ID of suspended RIC Subscription | - |  |
| >>RIC Action List |  | 0.. <maxofRICactionID> | EACH | reject |  |  |
| >>>RIC Action ID | M |  | 9.2.10 | - |  |  |
| >RIC Subscription Resumed List |  | 0.. <maxofRICrequestID> | EACH | reject |  |  |
| >>RIC Request ID | M |  | 9.2.7 | RIC Request ID of resumed RIC Subscription | - |  |
| >>RIC Action List |  | 0.. <maxofRICactionID> | EACH | reject |  |  |
| >>>RIC Action ID | M |  | 9.2.10 | - |  |  |

#### 9.1.1.29 RIC SUBSCRIPTION STATE CONTROL FAILURE

This message is sent by the E2 Node to inform the Near-RT RIC that the request to suspend and/or resume one or more RIC Subscriptions in the E2 Node failed.

Direction: E2 Node  Near-RT RIC.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Request ID | M |  | 9.2.7 | YES | reject |  |
| Cause | M |  | 9.2.1 | YES | reject |  |
| Criticality Diagnostics | O |  | 9.2.2 | YES | ignore |  |

#### 9.1.1.30 RIC ASSISTANCE REQUEST

This message is sent by the E2 Node to Near-RT RIC to request an assistance service.

Direction: E2 Node  Near-RT RIC.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Request ID | M |  | 9.2.7 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Assistance Header | M |  | 9.2.47 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Assistance Message | M |  | 9.2.48 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Assistance Update | O |  | 9.2.49 | YES | Ignore |  |
| RIC Assistance Update Number | O |  | 9.2.50 | YES | Ignore |  |

#### 9.1.1.31 RIC ASSISTANCE RESPONSE

This message is sent by the Near-RT RIC to the E2 Node to provide the requested assistance service.

Direction: Near-RT RIC  E2 Node.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Request ID | M |  | 9.2.7 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Assistance Header | M |  | 9.2.47 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Assistance Outcome | M |  | 9.2.51 | YES | ignore |  |

#### 9.1.1.32 RIC ASSISTANCE FAILURE

This message is sent by the Near-RT RIC to inform the E2 Node that the requested RIC Assistance service failed.

Direction: Near-RT RIC  E2 Node.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Request ID | M |  | 9.2.7 | YES | reject |  |
| Cause | M |  | 9.2.1 | YES | reject |  |
| Criticality Diagnostics | O |  | 9.2.2 | YES | ignore |  |

#### 9.1.1.33 RIC ASSISTANCE INDICATION

This message is sent by the Near-RT RIC to the E2 Node to provide an updated response to the requested assistance service.

Direction: Near-RT RIC  E2 Node.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Request ID | M |  | 9.2.7 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Assistance SN | M |  | 9.2.52 | YES | ignore |  |
| RIC Assistance Header | M |  | 9.2.47 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Assistance Outcome | M |  | 9.2.51 | YES | ignore |  |

#### 9.1.1.34 RIC ASSISTANCE HALT

This message is sent by the E2 Node to the Near-RT RIC to halt further updates to the requested assistance service.

Direction: E2 Node  Near-RT RIC.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Request ID | M |  | 9.2.7 | YES | ignore |  |

### 9.1.2 Messages for Global Procedures

#### 9.1.2.1 ERROR INDICATION

This message is used to indicate that some error has been detected in the E2 Node or Near-RT RIC.

Direction: E2 Node  Near-RT RIC or Near-RT RIC  E2 Node.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | ignore |  |
| Transaction ID | O |  | 9.2.33 | Required if RIC Request ID IE is not present. | YES | reject |
| RIC Request ID | O |  | 9.2.7 | Required if Transaction ID IE is not present. | YES | reject |
| RAN Function ID | O |  | 9.2.8 | YES | reject |  |
| Cause | O |  | 9.2.1 | YES | ignore |  |
| Criticality Diagnostics | O |  | 9.2.2 | YES | ignore |  |

#### 9.1.2.2 E2 SETUP REQUEST

This message is sent by an E2 Node to a Near-RT RIC to transfer the initialization information.

Direction: E2 Node  Near-RT RIC.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| Transaction ID | M |  | 9.2.33 | . | YES | reject |
| Global E2 Node ID | M |  | 9.2.6 | YES | reject |  |
| RAN Functions Added List |  | 1 | List of RAN functions in E2 node. | YES | reject |  |
| >RAN Function item |  | 1.. <maxofRANfunctionID> |  |  |  |  |
| >>RAN Function ID | M |  | 9.2.8 | Id of the declared Function. | - |  |
| >>RAN Function Definition | M |  | 9.2.23 | Definition of Function. | - |  |
| >>RAN Function Revision | M |  | 9.2.24 | Revision counter. | - |  |
| >>RAN Function OID | M |  | 9.2.31 | Object identifier of corresponding E2SM. | - |  |
| E2 Node Component Configuration Addition List |  | 1 | List of E2 Node component configuration information. | YES | reject |  |
| >E2 Node Component Configuration Addition Item |  | 1.. <maxofE2nodeComponents> | EACH | reject |  |  |
| >>E2 Node Component Interface Type | M |  | 9.2.26 | E2 Node component interface type. | - |  |
| >>E2 Node Component ID | O |  | 9.2.32 | E2 Node Component Identifier. | - |  |
| >>E2 Node Component Configuration | M |  | 9.2.27 | Contents depends on component interface type. | - |  |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxofRANfunctionID | Maximum no. of RAN Functions supported by E2 Node. Value is 256. |
| maxofE2nodeComponents | Maximum no. of E2 Node components supported by E2 Node. Value is 1024 |

#### 9.1.2.3 E2 SETUP RESPONSE

This message is sent by a Near-RT RIC to an E2 Node to transfer the initialization information.

Direction: Near-RT RIC E2 Node.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| Transaction ID | M |  | 9.2.33 | . | YES | reject |
| Global RIC ID | M |  | 9.2.4 | YES | reject |  |
| RAN Functions Accepted List |  | 0..1 |  |  |  |  |
| >RAN Functions ID item |  | 1 .. <maxofRANfunctionID> | YES | Reject |  |  |
| >>RAN Function ID | M |  | 9.2.8 | Id of the declared Function. | - |  |
| >>RAN Function Revision | M |  | 9.2.24 | Revision counter. | - |  |
| RAN Functions Rejected List |  | 0..1 |  |  |  |  |
| >RAN Functions ID Cause Item |  | 1 .. <maxofRANfunctionID> | YES | reject |  |  |
| >>RAN Function ID | M |  | 9.2.8 | Id of the declared Function. | - |  |
| >>Cause | M |  | 9.2.1 | Reason for not accepting function. | - |  |
| E2 Node Component Configuration Addition Acknowledge List |  | 1 | YES | reject |  |  |
| >E2 Node Component Configuration Addition Acknowledge Item |  | 1.. <maxofE2nodeComponents> | EACH | reject |  |  |
| >>E2 Node Component Interface Type | M |  | 9.2.26 | E2 Node component interface type. | - |  |
| >>E2 Node Component ID | M |  | 9.2.32 | E2 Node Component Identifier. | - |  |
| >>E2 Node Component Configuration Acknowledge | M |  | 9.2.28 | Success or failure with Cause. | - |  |
| RAN Functions Accepted with Modification List |  | 0..1 | This list is used only when Near-RT RIC received a RAN Function Definition from the E2 Node that contains RIC assistance services that the Near-RT RIC cannot support, but decided to provide a revised RAN Function definition excluding the unsupported RIC assistance services while retaining the rest of the services. This list shall only be used in this specific scenario and does not apply otherwise. |  |  |  |
| >RAN Functions ID item |  | 1 .. <maxofRANfunctionID> | YES | Reject |  |  |
| >>RAN Function ID | M |  | 9.2.8 | Id of the declared Function. | - |  |
| >>Revised RAN Function Definition | M |  | 9.2.23 | Revised definition of Function. | - |  |
| >>RAN Function Revision | M |  | 9.2.24 | Revision counter. | - |  |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxofRANfunctionID | Maximum no. of RAN Functions supported by E2 Node. Value is 256. |
| maxofE2nodeComponents | Maximum no. of E2 Node components supported by E2 Node. Value is 1024 |

#### 9.1.2.4 E2 SETUP FAILURE

This message is sent by the Near-RT RIC to indicate E2 Setup failure.

Direction: Near-RT RIC  E2 Node.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| Transaction ID | M |  | 9.2.33 | YES | reject |  |
| Cause | M |  | 9.2.1 | YES | ignore |  |
| Time To Wait | O |  | 9.2.5 | YES | ignore |  |
| Criticality Diagnostics | O |  | 9.2.2 | YES | Ignore |  |
| Transport Layer Information | O |  | 9.2.29 | YES | ignore |  |

#### 9.1.2.5 RESET REQUEST

This message is sent from a Near-RT RIC to an E2 Node or from an E2 Node to a Near-RT RIC and is used to request the E2 interface between the E2 node and the Near-RT RIC to be reset.

Direction: Near-RT RIC  E2 Node, or E2 Node  Near-RT RIC.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| Transaction ID | M |  | 9.2.33 | YES | reject |  |
| Cause | M |  | 9.2.1 | YES | ignore |  |

#### 9.1.2.6 RESET RESPONSE

This message is sent by an E2 Node to a Near-RT RIC or from a Near-RT RIC to an E2 Node as a response to a RESET REQUEST message.

Direction: Near-RT RIC  E2 Node, or E2 Node  Near-RT RIC.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| Transaction ID | M |  | 9.2.33 | YES | reject |  |
| Criticality Diagnostics | O |  | 9.2.2 | YES | ignore |  |

#### 9.1.2.7 RIC SERVICE UPDATE

This message is sent by an E2 Node to the Near-RT RIC to transfer updated information on RIC Services supported by the E2 Node.

Direction: E2 Node  Near-RT RIC.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| Transaction ID | M |  | 9.2.33 | YES | reject |  |
| RAN Functions Added List |  | 0..1 | List of added RAN functions in E2 node. |  |  |  |
| >RAN Functions Item |  | 1 .. <maxofRANfunctionID> | YES | reject |  |  |
| >>RAN Function ID | M |  | 9.2.8 | Id of the declared Function. | - |  |
| >>RAN Function Definition | M |  | 9.2.23 | Definition of Function. | - |  |
| >>RAN Function Revision | M |  | 9.2.24 | Revision counter. | - |  |
| >>RAN Function OID | M |  | 9.2.31 | Object identifier of corresponding E2SM. | - |  |
| RAN Functions Modified List |  | 0..1 | List of Modified RAN functions in E2 node. |  |  |  |
| >RAN Functions Item |  | 1 .. <maxofRANfunctionID> | YES | reject |  |  |
| >>RAN Function ID | M |  | 9.2.8 | Id of the declared Function. | - |  |
| >>RAN Function Definition | M |  | 9.2.23 | Definition of Function. | - |  |
| >>RAN Function Revision | M |  | 9.2.24 | Revision counter. | - |  |
| >>RAN Function OID | M |  | 9.2.31 | Object identifier of corresponding E2SM. | - |  |
| RAN Functions Deleted List |  | 0..1 | List of deleted RAN functions in E2 node. |  |  |  |
| >RAN Functions ID Item |  | 1 .. <maxofRANfunctionID> | YES | reject |  |  |
| >>RAN Function ID | M |  | 9.2.8 | Id of the declared Function. | - |  |
| >>RAN Function Revision | M |  | 9.2.24 | Revision counter. | - |  |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxofRANfunctionID | Maximum no. of Functions accepted by Near-RT RIC. Value is 256. |

#### 9.1.2.8 RIC SERVICE UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE

This message is sent by the Near-RT RIC to the E2 Node to acknowledge update of RIC Services supported by the E2 Node.

Direction: Near-RT RIC  E2 Node.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| Transaction ID | M |  | 9.2.33 | YES | reject |  |
| RAN Functions Accepted List |  | 0..1 | List of Functions accepted by Near-RT RIC. |  |  |  |
| >RAN Functions ID Item |  | 1 .. <maxofRANfunctionID> | YES | reject |  |  |
| >>RAN Function ID | M |  | 9.2.8 | Id of the declared Function. | - |  |
| >>RAN Function Revision | M |  | 9.2.24 | Revision counter. | - |  |
| RAN Functions Rejected List |  | 0..1 | List of Functions not accepted by Near-RT RIC. |  |  |  |
| >RAN Functions Cause Item |  | 1 .. <maxofRANfunctionID> | YES | reject |  |  |
| >>RAN Function ID | M |  | 9.2.8 | Id of the declared Function. | - |  |
| >>Cause | M |  | 9.2.1 | Reason for not accepting function. | - |  |
| RAN Functions Accepted with Modification List |  | 0..1 | This list is used only when Near-RT RIC received a RAN Function Definition from the E2 Node that contains RIC assistance services that the Near-RT RIC cannot support, but decided to provide a revised RAN Function definition excluding the unsupported RIC assistance services while retaining the rest of the services. This list shall only be used in this specific scenario and does not apply otherwise. |  |  |  |
| >RAN Functions ID item |  | 1 .. <maxofRANfunctionID> | YES | reject |  |  |
| >>RAN Function ID | M |  | 9.2.8 | Id of the declared Function. | - |  |
| >>Revised RAN Function Definition | M |  | 9.2.23 | Revised definition of Function. | - |  |
| >>RAN Function Revision | M |  | 9.2.24 | Revision counter. | - |  |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxofRANfunctionID | Maximum no. of Functions accepted by Near-RT RIC. Value is 256. |

#### 9.1.2.9 RIC SERVICE UPDATE FAILURE

This message is sent by the Near-RT RIC to the E2 Node to indicate RIC SERVICE Update Failure.

Direction: Near-RT RIC  E2 Node.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| Transaction ID | M |  | 9.2.33 | YES | reject |  |
| Cause | M |  | 9.2.1 | Reason for failure. | YES | reject |
| Time To Wait | O |  | 9.2.5 | YES | ignore |  |
| Criticality Diagnostics | O |  | 9.2.2 | YES | ignore |  |

#### 9.1.2.10 RIC SERVICE QUERY

This message is sent by a Near-RT RIC to an E2 Node to request a E2 Node initiated RIC Service Update procedure.

Direction: Near-RT RIC  E2 Node.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| Transaction ID | M |  | 9.2.33 | . | YES | reject |
| RAN Functions Accepted List |  | 0..1 | Complete list of Functions previously accepted by Near-RT RIC. |  |  |  |
| >RAN Functions ID Item |  | 1 .. <maxofRANfunctionID> | YES | reject |  |  |
| >>RAN Function ID | M |  | 9.2.8 | Id of the declared Function. | - |  |
| >>RAN Function Revision | M |  | 9.2.24 | Revision counter. | - |  |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxofRANfunctionID | Maximum no. of Functions accepted by Near-RT RIC. Value is 256. |

#### 9.1.2.11 E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE

This message is sent by an E2 Node to the Near-RT RIC to transfer updated information on the E2 Node Configuration information.

Direction: E2 Node  Near-RT RIC.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| Transaction ID | M |  | 9.2.33 | YES | reject |  |
| Global E2 Node ID | O |  | 9.2.6 | Required when sent as first message on new TNL association. | YES | reject |
| E2 Node Component Configuration Addition List |  | 0..1 | YES | reject |  |  |
| >E2 Node Component Configuration Addition Item |  | 1.. <maxofE2nodeComponents> | EACH | reject |  |  |
| >>E2 Node Component Interface Type | M |  | 9.2.26 | E2 Node component interface type. | - |  |
| >>E2 Node Component ID | M |  | 9.2.32 | E2 Node Component Identifier. | - |  |
| >>E2 Node Component Configuration | M |  | 9.2.27 | Contents depends on component type. | - |  |
| E2 Node Component Configuration Update List |  | 0..1 | YES | reject |  |  |
| >E2 Node Component Configuration Update Item |  | 1.. <maxofE2nodeComponents> | EACH | reject |  |  |
| >>E2 Node Component Interface Type | M |  | 9.2.26 | E2 Node component interface type. | - |  |
| >>E2 Node Component ID | M |  | 9.2.32 | E2 Node Component Identifier. | - |  |
| >>E2 Node Component Configuration | M |  | 9.2.27 | Contents depends on component type. | - |  |
| E2 Node Component Configuration Removal List |  | 0..1 | YES | reject |  |  |
| >E2 Node Component Configuration Removal Item |  | 1.. <maxofE2nodeComponents> | EACH | reject |  |  |
| >>E2 Node Component Interface Type | M |  | 9.2.26 | E2 Node component interface type. | - |  |
| >>E2 Node Component ID | M |  | 9.2.32 | E2 Node Component Identifier. | - |  |
| E2 Node TNL Association To Remove List |  | 0..1 | YES | reject |  |  |
| >E2 Node TNL Association To Remove Item IEs |  | 1..<maxofTNLA> | EACH | reject |  |  |
| >> Transport Layer Information | M |  | 9.2.29 | Transport Layer Address of the E2 node. | - |  |
| >> Transport Layer Information Near-RT RIC | O |  | 9.2.29 | Transport Layer Address of the Near-RT RIC. | - |  |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxofE2nodeComponents | Maximum no. of E2 Node components supported by E2 Node. Value is 1024. |
| maxofTNLA | Maximum no. of TNL Associations supported by E2 Node. Value is 32. |

#### 9.1.2.12 E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE

This message is sent by Near-RT RIC to E2 Node to acknowledge update of E2 Node Configuration supported by the E2 Node.

Direction: Near-RT RIC  E2 Node.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| Transaction ID | M |  | 9.2.33 | . | YES | reject |
| E2 Node Component Configuration Addition Acknowledge List |  | 0..1 | YES | reject |  |  |
| >E2 Node Component Configuration Addition Acknowledge Item |  | 1.. <maxofE2nodeComponents> | EACH | reject |  |  |
| >>E2 Node Component Interface Type | M |  | 9.2.26 | E2 Node component interface type. | - |  |
| >>E2 Node Component ID | M |  | 9.2.32 | E2 Node Component Identifier. | - |  |
| >>E2 Node Component Configuration Acknowledge | M |  | 9.2.28 | Success or failure with Cause. | - |  |
| E2 Node Component Configuration Update Acknowledge List |  | 0..1 | YES | reject |  |  |
| >E2 Node Component Configuration Update Acknowledge Item |  | 1.. <maxofE2nodeComponents> | EACH | reject |  |  |
| >>E2 Node Component Interface Type | M |  | 9.2.26 | E2 Node component interface type. | - |  |
| >>E2 Node Component ID | O |  | 9.2.32 | E2 Node Component Identifier. | - |  |
| >>E2 Node Component Configuration Update Acknowledge | M |  | 9.2.28 | Success or failure with Cause. | - |  |
| E2 Node Component Configuration Removal Acknowledge List |  | 0..1 | YES | reject |  |  |
| >E2 Node Component Configuration Removal Acknowledge Item |  | 1.. <maxofE2nodeComponents> | EACH | reject |  |  |
| >>E2 Node Component Interface Type | M |  | 9.2.26 | E2 Node component interface type. | - |  |
| >>E2 Node Component ID | M |  | 9.2.32 | E2 Node Component Identifier. | - |  |
| >>E2 Node Component Configuration Acknowledge | M |  | 9.2.28 | Success or failure with Cause. | - |  |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxofE2nodeComponents | Maximum no. of E2 Node components supported by E2 Node. Value is 1024. |

#### 9.1.2.13 E2 NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE FAILURE

This message is sent by Near-RT RIC to E2 Node to indicate E2 Node Configuration Update Failure.

Direction: Near-RT RIC  E2 Node.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| Transaction ID | M |  | 9.2.33 | . | YES | reject |
| Cause | M |  | 9.2.1 | YES | reject |  |
| Time To Wait | O |  | 9.2.5 | YES | ignore |  |
| Criticality Diagnostics | O |  | 9.2.2 | YES | ignore |  |

#### 9.1.2.14 E2 CONNECTION UPDATE

This message is sent by Near-RT RIC to E2 Node to initiate update of E2 Connection supported by the E2 Node.

Direction: Near-RT RIC  E2 Node.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| Transaction ID | M |  | 9.2.33 | YES | reject |  |
| E2 Connection To Add List |  | 0..1 | YES | ignore |  |  |
| >E2 Connection to Add Item IEs |  | 1.. <maxofTNLA> | EACH | ignore |  |  |
| >>Transport Layer Information | M |  | 9.2.29 | Transport layer address and port number of Near-RT RIC. |  |  |
| >>TNL Association Usage | M |  | 9.2.30 | Indicates how E2 connection is to be used. |  |  |
| E2 Connection To Remove List |  | 0..1 | YES | ignore |  |  |
| >E2 Connection to Remove Item IEs |  | 1.. <maxofTNLA> | EACH | ignore |  |  |
| >>Transport Layer Information | M |  | 9.2.29 | Transport layer address and port number of Near-RT RIC. |  |  |
| E2 Connection To Modify List |  | 0..1 | YES | ignore |  |  |
| >E2 Connection to Modify Item IEs |  | 1.. <maxofTNLA> | EACH | ignore |  |  |
| >>Transport Layer Information | M |  | 9.2.29 | Transport layer address and port number of Near-RT RIC. |  |  |
| >>TNL Association Usage | M |  | 9.2.30 | Indicates how E2 connection is to be used. |  |  |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxofTNLA | Maximum no. of TNL Associations supported by E2 Node. Value is 32. |

#### 9.1.2.15 E2 CONNECTION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE

This message is sent by E2 Node to the Near-RT RIC to acknowledge update of E2 Connection supported by the E2 Node.

Direction: E2 Node  Near-RT RIC.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| Transaction ID | M |  | 9.2.33 | YES | reject |  |
| E2 Connection Setup List |  | 0..1 | YES | ignore |  |  |
| >E2 Connection Setup Item IEs |  | 1.. <maxofTNLA> | EACH | ignore |  |  |
| >>Transport Layer Information | M |  | 9.2.29 | Transport layer address and port number of Near-RT RIC. |  |  |
| >>TNL Association Usage | M |  | 9.2.30 | Indicates how E2 connection is to be used. |  |  |
| E2 Connection Failed to Setup List |  | 0..1 | YES | ignore |  |  |
| >E2 Connection failed to setup Item IEs |  | 1.. <maxofTNLA> | EACH | ignore |  |  |
| >>Transport Layer Information | M |  | 9.2.29 | Transport layer address and port number of Near-RT RIC. |  |  |
| >>Cause | M |  | 9.2.1 |  |  |  |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxofTNLA | Maximum no. of TNL Associations supported by E2 Node. Value is 32. |

#### 9.1.2.16 E2 CONNECTION UPDATE FAILURE

This message is sent by E2 Node to the Near-RT RIC to inform failure of the requested E2 Connection updates.

Direction: E2 Node  Near-RT RIC.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| Transaction ID | M |  | 9.2.33 | YES | reject |  |
| Cause | M |  | 9.2.1 | YES | reject |  |
| Time To Wait | O |  | 9.2.5 | YES | ignore |  |
| Criticality Diagnostics | O |  | 9.2.2 | YES | ignore |  |

#### 9.1.2.17 E2 REMOVAL REQUEST

This message is sent by either the E2 Node or the Near-RT RIC to initiate the removal of the E2 signalling connection and the related resources.

Direction: Near-RT RIC  E2 Node, or E2 Node  Near-RT RIC.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| Transaction ID | M |  | 9.2.33 | YES | reject |  |

#### 9.1.2.18 E2 REMOVAL RESPONSE

This message is sent by either the E2 Node or the Near-RT RIC to acknowledge the initiation of removal of the E2 signalling connection and the related resources.

Direction: Near-RT RIC  E2 Node, or E2 Node  Near-RT RIC.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| Transaction ID | M |  | 9.2.33 | YES | reject |  |
| Criticality Diagnostics | O |  | 9.2.2 | YES | ignore |  |

#### 9.1.2.19 E2 REMOVAL FAILURE

This message is sent by either the E2 Node or the Near-RT RIC to indicate that removing the E2 signalling connection and the related resources cannot be accepted.

Direction: Near-RT RIC  E2 Node, or E2 Node  Near-RT RIC.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| Transaction ID | M |  | 9.2.33 | YES | reject |  |
| Cause | M |  | 9.2.1 | YES | ignore |  |
| Criticality Diagnostics | O |  | 9.2.2 | YES | ignore |  |

9.1.2.20	E2 RESOURCE STATUS REQUEST

This message is sent by the Near-RT RIC to an E2 Node to initiate the requested measurement according to the parameters given in the message.

Direction: Near RT RIC → E2 Node

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| Transaction ID | M |  | 9.2.33 | YES | reject |  |
| RIC Load Measurement ID | M |  | 9.2.40 | Allocated by Near-RT RIC | YES | reject |
| E2 Node Load Measurement ID | C-ifRegistrationRequestStoporAdd |  | 9.2.40 | Allocated by E2 Node | YES | ignore |
| Registration Request | M |  | ENUMERATED (start, stop, add, …) | Type of request for which the resource status is required. | YES | ignore |
| Report Characteristics | C-ifRegistrationRequestStart |  | BIT STRING (SIZE(8)) | Each position in the bitmap indicates measurement object the E2 Node is requested to report.  First Bit = TNL Capacity Ind Periodic, Second Bit = HW Load Ind Periodic.  Other bits shall be ignored by the E2 Node. | YES | ignore |
| Reporting Periodicity | O |  | ENUMERATED (500ms, 1000ms, 2000ms, 5000ms,10000ms, …) | Periodicity that can be used for reporting of indicated measurements. Also used as the averaging window length for all measurement objects if supported.  This IE is ignored if the Registration Request IE is set to “add”. | YES | ignore |

| Condition | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| ifRegistrationRequestStoporAdd | This IE shall be present if the Registration Request IE is set to the value "stop" or "add". |
| ifRegistrationRequestStart | This IE shall be present if the Registration Request IE is set to the value "start". |

9.1.2.21	E2 RESOURCE STATUS RESPONSE

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| Transaction ID | M |  | 9.2.33 | . | YES | reject |
| RIC Load Measurement ID | M |  | 9.2.40 | Allocated by Near-RT RIC | YES | reject |
| E2 Node Load  Measurement ID | M |  | 9.2.40 | Allocated by E2 Node | YES | reject |
| Criticality Diagnostics | O |  | 9.2.2 | YES | ignore |  |

9.1.2.22	E2 RESOURCE STATUS FAILURE

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| Transaction ID | M |  | 9.2.33 | . | YES | reject |
| RIC Load Measurement ID | M |  | 9.2.40 | Allocated by Near-RT RIC | YES | reject |
| E2 Node Load Measurement ID | M |  | 9.2.40 | Allocated by E2 Node | YES | reject |
| Cause | M |  | 9.2.1 | YES | ignore |  |
| Criticality Diagnostics | O |  | 9.2.2 | YES | ignore |  |

9.1.2.23	E2 RESOURCE STATUS UPDATE

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description | Criticality | Assigned Criticality |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type | M |  | 9.2.3 | YES | reject |  |
| Transaction ID | M |  | 9.2.33 | . | YES | reject |
| RIC Load Measurement ID | M |  | 9.2.40 | Allocated by Near-RT RIC | YES | reject |
| E2 Node Load Measurement ID | M |  | 9.2.40 | Allocated by E2 Node | YES | reject |
| TNL Capacity Indicator | O |  | 9.2.54 | YES | ignore |  |
| Hardware Load Indicator | O |  | 9.2.55 | YES | ignore |  |

## 9.2 Information Element definitions

### 9.2.0 General

When specifying information elements which are to be represented by bit strings, if not otherwise specifically stated in the semantics description of the concerned IE or elsewhere, the following principle applies with regards to the ordering of bits:

- -	The first bit (leftmost bit) contains the Most Significant Bit (MSB);
- -	The last bit (rightmost bit) contains the Least Significant Bit (LSB);
- -	When importing bit strings from other specifications, the first bit of the bit string contains the first bit of the concerned information.

### 9.2.1 Cause

The purpose of the Cause IE is to indicate the reason for a particular event for the E2AP protocol.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE Type and Reference | Semantics Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| CHOICE Cause Group | M |  |  |  |
| >RIC services |  |  |  |  |
| >>RIC Request | O |  | ENUMERATED (RAN Function ID invalid,  Action not supported,  Excessive actions,  Duplicate action,  Duplicate Event Trigger,  Function resource limit,  RIC Request ID unknown,  Inconsistent Action/subsequent Action sequence,  Control message invalid,  RIC Call process ID invalid,  Control timer expired,  Control failed to execute,  System not ready,  unspecified, …, RIC Subscription End Time expired,  RIC Subscription Time invalid, Duplicate RIC Request ID, Event Trigger not supported, Requested Information Unavailable, Invalid Information Request) |  |
| >>RIC Service | O |  | ENUMERATED RAN Function not supported,  Excessive functions,  RIC resource limit,…) |  |
| >>E2 Node | O |  | ENUMERATED (E2 node component unknown, …) |  |
| >Transport Layer |  |  |  |  |
| >>Transport Layer Cause | M |  | ENUMERATED (Unspecified,  Transport Resource Unavailable, ...) |  |
| >Protocol |  |  |  |  |
| >>Protocol Cause | M |  | ENUMERATED (Transfer Syntax Error, Abstract Syntax Error (Reject), Abstract Syntax Error (Ignore and Notify), Message not Compatible with Receiver State, Semantic Error, Abstract Syntax Error (Falsely Constructed Message), Unspecified, ...) |  |
| >Misc |  |  |  |  |
| >>Miscellaneous Cause | M |  | ENUMERATED (Control Processing Overload,  Hardware Failure, O&M Intervention, Unspecified, ...) |  |
| >Service layer |  |  |  |  |
| >>Service layer Cause | M |  | 9.2.53 |  |

The meaning of the different cause values is described in the following table. In general, "not supported" cause values indicate that the related capability is missing. On the other hand, "not available" cause values indicate that the related capability is present, but insufficient resources are available to perform the requested action.

| RIC Request cause | Meaning |
| --- | --- |
| Unspecified | Sent for RIC service cause when none of the specified cause values applies. |
| RAN Function ID invalid | Requested function Id invalid or not known by E2 Node. |
| Action not supported | Requested Action not supported by RAN function. |
| Excessive actions | Excessive number of actions requested for RAN Function. |
| Duplicate action | Same action requested more than once in same subscription request. |
| Duplicate Event Trigger | Subscription request has same event trigger as previously accepted subscription request. |
| Function resource limit | RAN function has reached resource limit. |
| RIC Request ID unknown | RIC Request ID sent to Near-RT RIC is unknown. |
| Inconsistent Action/subsequent Action sequence | RAN Function has detected inconsistent sequence of requested Action and Subsequent Action. |
| Control message invalid | RAN Function has detected invalid RIC CONTROL REQUEST message. |
| RIC Call process ID invalid | RAN function has detected invalid RIC Call Process ID in RIC CONTROL REQUEST. |
| Control timer expired | RIC Control Request received by E2 Node after the associated RIC Time to Wait timer had expired. |
| Control failed to execute | Requested control procedure initiated by RIC Control Request failed to be executed in the E2 Node. |
| System not ready | RAN Function is not ready to receive RIC Subscription or RIC Control message. |
| RIC Subscription End Time expired | RIC SUBSCRIPTION DELETE REQUIRED is triggered to inform Near-RT RIC that end time has expired. |
| RIC Subscription Time invalid | E2 Node received RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST containing an invalid RIC Subscription Start Time and/or RIC Subscription End Time. |
| Duplicate RIC Request ID | E2 node does not support handling of same RIC Request ID as previously accepted subscription request. |
| Event Trigger not supported | Requested event trigger definition or modification - not supported by RAN function. |
| Requested Information Unavailable | Information requested by Near-RT RIC is not available at E2 Node. |
| Invalid Information Request | Information requested by Near-RT RIC is invalid. |

| RIC Service cause | Meaning |
| --- | --- |
| RAN Function not supported | The RAN Function described by E2 Node is not supported by Near-RT RIC. |
| Excessive functions | RIC has reached a limit on the number of declared RAN functions. |
| RIC resource limit | RIC has reached a resource limit. |

| E2 Node configuration cause | Meaning |
| --- | --- |
| E2 Node component unknown | The received message refers to an unknown E2 Node component. |

| Transport Layer cause | Meaning |
| --- | --- |
| Unspecified | Sent when none of the cause values below applies but still the cause is Transport Network Layer related. |
| Transport Resource Unavailable | The required transport resources are not available. |

| Protocol cause | Meaning |
| --- | --- |
| Transfer Syntax Error | The received message included a transfer syntax error. |
| Abstract Syntax Error (Reject) | The received message included an abstract syntax error and the concerning criticality indicated "reject". |
| Abstract Syntax Error (Ignore And Notify) | The received message included an abstract syntax error and the concerning criticality indicated "ignore and notify". |
| Message Not Compatible With Receiver State | The received message was not compatible with the receiver state. |
| Semantic Error | The received message included a semantic error. |
| Abstract Syntax Error (Falsely Constructed Message) | The received message contained IEs or IE groups in wrong order or with too many occurrences. |
| Unspecified | Sent when none of the above cause values applies but still the cause is Protocol related. |

| Miscellaneous cause | Meaning |
| --- | --- |
| Control Processing Overload | Control processing overload. |
| Hardware Failure | Action related to hardware failure. |
| O&M Intervention | The action is due to O&M intervention. |
| Unspecified Failure | Sent when none of the above cause values applies and the cause is not related to any of the categories Radio Network Layer, Transport Network Layer, NAS or Protocol. |

| Service Layer cause | Meaning |
| --- | --- |
| Service Layer Cause | Used as a transparent container transporting the service layer specific cause information |

### 9.2.2 Criticality Diagnostics

The Criticality Diagnostics IE is sent by the E2 Node or the Near-RT RIC when parts of a received message have not been comprehended, or were missing, or if the message contained logical errors. When applicable, it contains information about which IEs were not comprehended or were missing.

For further details on how to use the Criticality Diagnostics IE, (see clause 10). The conditions for inclusion of the Transaction ID IE are described in clause 10.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Procedure Code | O |  | INTEGER (0..255) | Procedure Code is to be used if Criticality Diagnostics is part of Error Indication procedure, and not within the response message of the same procedure that caused the error. |
| Triggering Message | O |  | ENUMERATED (initiating message, successful outcome, unsuccessful outcome) | The Triggering Message is used only if the Criticality Diagnostics is part of Error Indication procedure. |
| Procedure Criticality | O |  | ENUMERATED (reject, ignore, notify) | This Procedure Criticality is used for reporting the Criticality of the Triggering message (Procedure). |
| RIC Request ID | O |  | 9.2.7 |  |
| Information Element Criticality Diagnostics |  | 0 .. <maxnoof Errors> |  |  |
| >IE Criticality | M |  | ENUMERATED (reject, ignore, notify) | The IE Criticality is used for reporting the criticality of the triggering IE. The value 'ignore' shall not be used. |
| >IE ID | M |  | INTEGER (0..65535) | The IE ID of the not understood or missing IE. |
| >Type of Error | M |  | ENUMERATED (not understood, missing, ...) |  |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxnoofErrors | Maximum no. of IE errors allowed to be reported with a single message. The value for maxnoofErrors is 256. |

### 9.2.3 Message Type

The Message Type IE uniquely identifies the message being sent. It is mandatory for all messages.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Message Type |  |  |  |  |
| >Procedure Code | M |  | INTEGER (0..255) |  |
| >Type of Message | M |  | CHOICE (Initiating Message, Successful Outcome, Unsuccessful Outcome, ...) |  |

### 9.2.4 Global RIC ID

This IE is used to globally identify the Near-RT RIC.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| PLMN Identity | M |  | 3GPP TS 38.423 clause 9.2.2.4 |  |
| Near-RT RIC ID | M |  | BIT STRING (SIZE(20)) |  |

### 9.2.5 Time to wait

This IE defines the minimum allowed waiting times.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Time to wait | M |  | ENUMERATED(1s, 2s, 5s, 10s, 20s, 60s) |  |

### 9.2.6 Global E2 Node ID

This IE is used to globally identify an E2 node.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| CHOICE | M |  |  |  |
| >gNB |  | To be used when E2 Node supports gNB mode or both gNB and en-gNB modes. |  |  |
| >>Global gNB ID | M |  | 3GPP TS 38.423 clause 9.2.2.1 |  |
| >>Global en-gNB ID | O |  | 3GPP TS 36.423 clause 9.2.112 | Required when E2 node also supports NR with en-gNB mode. |
| >>gNB-CU-UP ID | O |  | 3GPP TS 37.483 clause 9.3.1.15 | Required when E2 Node supports only gNB-CU-UP functionality. |
| >>gNB-DU ID | O |  | 3GPP TS 38.473 clause 9.3.1.9 | Required when E2 Node supports only gNB-DU functionality. |
| >en-gNB |  | To be used when E2 Node supports en-gNB mode only. |  |  |
| >>Global en-gNB ID | M |  | 3GPP TS 36.423 clause 9.2.112 |  |
| >>en-gNB-CU-UP ID | O |  | 3GPP TS 37.483 clause 9.3.1.15 | Required when E2 Node supports only gNB-CU-UP functionality. |
| >>en-gNB-DU ID | O |  | 3GPP TS 38.473 clause 9.3.1.9 | Required when E2 Node supports only gNB-DU functionality. |
| >ng-eNB |  | To be used when E2 Node supports ng-eNB mode or both ng-eNB and eNB modes. |  |  |
| >>Global ng-eNB ID | M |  | 3GPP TS 38.423 clause 9.2.2.2 |  |
| >>Global eNB ID | O |  | 3GPP TS 36.423 clause 9.2.22 | Required when E2 Node also supports E-UTRA with eNB mode. |
| >>ng-eNB-DU ID | O |  | 3GPP TS 37.473 clause 9.3.1.9 | Required when E2 node supports only ng-eNB DU functionality. |
| >eNB |  | To be used when E2 Node supports eNB mode only. |  |  |
| >>Global eNB ID | M |  | 3GPP TS 36.423 clause 9.2.22 |  |

### 9.2.7 RIC Request ID

This information element indicates the RIC Request ID , and shall be unique for a given E2 Node.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| RIC Requestor ID | M |  | INTEGER (0.. 65535) |  |
| RIC Instance ID | M |  | INTEGER (0..65535) |  |

### 9.2.8 RAN Function ID

This information element indicates the RAN Function ID, and shall be unique within a given E2 Node.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| RAN Function ID | M |  | INTEGER (0..4095) | Value 0 reserved for Near-RT RIC internal usage. |

### 9.2.9 RIC Event Trigger Definition

This information element indicates the RIC event trigger description used by the RIC Subscription procedure.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| RIC Event Trigger Definition | M |  | OCTET STRING | Defined in RAN Function specific E2 Service Model, see O-RAN WG3.TS.E2SM [3]. |

### 9.2.10 RIC Action ID

This information element indicates the Action ID number for a RIC Service Action, and shall be unique within the given RIC Request ID.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| RIC Action ID | M |  | INTEGER (0..255) |  |

### 9.2.11 RIC Action Type

This IE defines the type of RIC Service Action to be executed.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| RIC Action Type | M |  | ENUMERATED (Insert, Report, Policy, …) |  |

### 9.2.12 RIC Action Definition

This information element provides parameters to used when executed a Report, Insert or Policy RIC Service Actions .

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| RIC Action Definition | M |  | OCTET STRING | Defined in RAN Function specific E2 Service Model, see O-RAN WG3.TS.E2SM [3]. |

### 9.2.13 RIC Subsequent Action

This IE defines the subsequent action to be taken after completing a particular RIC Service Action and shall be present when RIC Action Type set to Insert.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| RIC Subsequent Action Type | M |  | ENUMERATED (Continue, Halt, …) |  |
| RIC Time to Wait | M |  | ENUMERATED (1ms, 2ms, 5ms, 10ms, 20ms, 30ms, 40ms, 50ms, 100ms, 200ms, 500ms, 1s, 2s, 5s, 10s, 20s, 60s, …) |  |

### 9.2.14 RIC Indication Sequence Number (SN)

This information element indicates the Indication Sequence Number (SN).

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| RIC Indication SN | M |  | INTEGER (0..65535) |  |

### 9.2.15 RIC Indication Type

This IE defines the Indication Type.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| RIC Indication Type | M |  | ENUMERATED (Insert, Report, …) |  |

### 9.2.16 RIC Indication message

This information element carries the RIC indication message used for Insert and Report RIC Service Actions.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| RIC Indication message | M |  | OCTET STRING | Defined in RAN Function specific E2 Service Model, see O-RAN WG3.TS.E2SM [3]. |

### 9.2.17 RIC Indication header

This information element carries the RIC indication header used for Insert and Report RIC Service Actions.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| RIC Indication header | M |  | OCTET STRING | Defined in RAN Function specific E2 Service Model, see O-RAN WG3.TS.E2SM [3]. |

### 9.2.18 RIC Call Process ID

This information element carries the RIC Call Process ID used for the Insert and Control RIC Service Actions.  The RIC Call Process ID shall be unique within a given RAN Function on a given E2 Node.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| RIC Call Process ID | M |  | OCTET STRING | Defined in RAN Function specific E2 Service Model, see O-RAN WG3.TS.E2SM [3]. |

### 9.2.19 RIC Control message

This information element carries the RIC Control message.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| RIC Control Message | M |  | OCTET STRING | Defined in RAN Function specific E2 Service Model, see O-RAN WG3.TS.E2SM [3]. |

### 9.2.20 RIC Control header

This information element carries the RIC Control Header.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| RIC Control header | M |  | OCTET STRING | Defined in RAN Function specific E2 Service Model, see O-RAN WG3.TS.E2SM [3]. |

### 9.2.21 RIC Control Ack Request

This IE defines whether and when the RIC CONTROL ACKNOWLEDGE message shall be sent by the E2 Node as described in the below table.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| RIC Control Ack Request | M |  | ENUMERATED (NoAck, Ack, …) |  |

The meaning of the different values is described in the following table.

| RIC Service cause | Meaning |
| --- | --- |
| NoAck | Optional RIC Control Acknowledgement is not required. |
| Ack | Optional RIC Control Acknowledgement is required. |

### 9.2.22 Void

### 9.2.23 RAN Function Definition

This information element carries the RAN Function Definition.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| RAN Function Definition | M |  | OCTET STRING | Defined in RAN Function specific E2 Service Model, see O-RAN WG3.TS.E2SM [3]. |

### 9.2.24 RAN Function Revision

This information element carries the RAN Function Revision.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| RAN Function Revision | M |  | INTEGER (0..4095) |  |

### 9.2.25 RIC Control Outcome

This information element carries the RIC Control Outcome.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| RIC Control Outcome | M |  | OCTET STRING | Defined in RAN Function specific E2 Service Model, see O-RAN WG3.TS.E2SM [3]. |

### 9.2.26 E2 Node Component Interface Type

This IE is used to identify an E2 node component type.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| E2 node component interface type | M |  | ENUMERATED (ng, xn, e1, f1, w1, s1, x2, …) |  |

### 9.2.27 E2 Node Component Configuration

This IE is used to carry the E2 Node component configuration update information of a specific E2 Node component.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| SEQUENCE | M |  |  |  |
| >E2 Node Component Request Part | M |  | OCTET STRING | Contents depend on component type and used to carry new or updated component configuration. See the table below. |
| >E2 Node Component Response Part | M |  | OCTET STRING | Contents depend on component type and used to carry new or updated component configuration. See the table below. |

> NOTE: 	E2 node may generate the content of this IE using information derived from prior messages sent or received over the corresponding 3GPP Interfaces. For the E2 SETUP REQUEST message, the E2 node may derive the content of this IE from the prior messages pertaining to the Request part and the Response part of the Component Addition list in the following table and/or the Request part and the Response part of the Component Update list in the following table.
In all cases the information is a data structure defined by the applicable 3GPP specification as specified in the following table.

|  | Component Addition list | Component Update list |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| E2 Node component message content | Request part | Response part |  |  |
| gNB case |  |  |  |  |
| >NG  (AMF Name) | NG SETUP REQUEST,  3GPP TS 38.413 [19] clause 9.2.6.1 | NG SETUP RESPONSE,  3GPP TS 38.413 [19] clause 9.2.6.2 | RAN CONFIGURATION UPDATE,  3GPP TS 38.413 [19] clause 9.2.6.4  Or  AMF CONFIGURATION UPDATE,  3GPP TS 38.413 [19] clause 9.2.6.7 | RAN CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE, 3GPP TS 38.413 [19] clause 9.2.6.5 Or  AMF CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE, 3GPP TS 38.413 [19] clause 9.2.6.8 |
| >Xn   (Neighbour Global NG-RAN Node ID ) | XN SETUP REQUEST, 3GPP TS 38.423 [20] clause 9.1.3.1 | XN SETUP RESPONSE,  3GPP TS 38.423 [20] clause 9.1.3.2 | NG-RAN NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE,  3GPP TS 38.423 [20] clause 9.1.3.4 | NG-RAN NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE, 3GPP TS 38.423 [20] clause 9.1.3.5 |
| >E1   (gNB-CU-UP ID) | GNB-CU-UP E1 SETUP REQUEST, 3GPP TS 37.483 [21] clause 9.2.1.4 Or  GNB-CU-CP E1 SETUP REQUEST, 3GPP TS 37.483 [21] clause 9.2.1.7 | GNB-CU-UP E1 SETUP RESPONSE,  3GPP TS 37.483 [21] clause 9.2.1.5  Or  GNB-CU-CP E1 SETUP RESPONSE, 3GPP TS 37.483 [21] clause 9.2.1.8 | GNB-CU-UP CONFIGRATION UPDATE,  3GPP TS 37.483 [21] clause 9.2.1.10  Or  GNB-CU-CP CONFIGURATION UPDATE, 3GPP TS 37.483 [21] clause 9.2.1.13 | GNB-CU-UP CONFIGRATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE, 3GPP TS 37.483 [21] clause 9.2.1.11 Or  GNB-CU-CP CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE, 3GPP TS 37.483 [21] clause 9.2.1.14 |
| >F1   (gNB-DU ID) | F1 SETUP REQUEST, 3GPP TS 38.473 [22] clause 9.2.1.4 | F1 SETUP RESPONSE, 3GPP TS 38.473 [22] clause 9.2.1.5 | GNB-DU CONFIGRATION UPDATE, 3GPP TS 38.473 [22] clause 9.2.1.7   Or  GNB-CU CONFIGURATION UPDATE, 3GPP TS 38.473 [22] clause 9.2.1.10 | GNB-DU CONFIGRATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE, 3GPP TS 38.473 [22] clause 9.2.1.8  Or  GNB-CU CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE, 3GPP TS 38.473 [22] clause 9.2.1.11 |
| >X2   (Neighbour Global eNB ID) | EN-DC X2 SETUP REQUEST, 3GPP TS 36.423 [25] clause 9.1.2.31 | EN-DC X2 SETUP RESPONSE, 3GPP TS 36.423 [25] clause 9.1.2.32 | EN-DC CONFIGURATION UPDATE, 3GPP TS 36.423 [25] clause 9.1.2.34 | EN-DC CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE, 3GPP TS 36.423 [25] clause 9.1.2.35 |
| eNB case |  |  |  |  |
| >NG  (AMF Name) | NG SETUP REQUEST, 3GPP TS 38.413 [19] clause 9.2.6.1 | NG SETUP RESPONSE, 3GPP TS 38.413 [19] clause 9.2.6.2 | RAN CONFIGURATION UPDATE, 3GPP TS 38.413 [19] clause 9.2.6.4  Or  AMF CONFIGURATION UPDATE, 3GPP TS 38.413 [19] clause 9.2.6.7 | RAN CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE, 3GPP TS 38.413 [19] clause 9.2.6.5  Or  AMF CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE, 3GPP TS 38.413 [19] clause 9.2.6.8 |
| >Xn   (Neighbour Global NG-RAN Node ID) | XN SETUP REQUEST, 3GPP TS 38.423 [20] clause 9.1.3.1 | XN SETUP RESPONSE, 3GPP TS 38.423 [20] clause 9.1.3.2 | NG-RAN NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE, 3GPP TS 38.423 [20] clause 9.1.3.4 | NG-RAN NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE, 3GPP TS 38.423 [20] clause 9.1.3.5 |
| >W1   (ng-eNB-DU ID) | W1 SETUP REQUEST, 3GPP TS 37.473 [23] clause 9.2.1.4 | W1 SETUP RESPONSE, 3GPP TS 37.473 [23] clause 9.2.1.5 | NG-ENB-DU CONFIGURATION UPDATE, 3GPP TS 37.473 [23] clause 9.2.1.7  Or  NG-ENB-CU CONFIGURATION UPDATE, 3GPP TS 37.473 [23] clause 9.2.1.10 | NG-ENB-DU CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE, 3GPP TS 37.473 [23] clause 9.2.1.8 Or  NG-ENB-CU CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE, 3GPP TS 37.473 [23] clause 9.2.1.11 |
| >S1   (MME Name) | S1 SETUP REQUEST, 3GPP TS 36.413 [24] clause 9.1.8.4 | S1 SETUP RESPONSE, 3GPP TS 36.413 [24] clause 9.1.8.5 | ENB CONFIGURATION UPDATE, 3GPP TS 36.413 [24] clause 9.1.8.7  Or  MME CONFIGURATION UPDATE, 3GPP TS 36.413 [24] clause 9.1.8.10 | ENB CONFIGRATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE, 3GPP TS 36.413 [24] clause 9.1.8.8  Or  MME CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE, 3GPP TS 36.413 [24] clause 9.1.8.11 |
| >X2 (when neighbour is eNB)  (Neighbour Global eNB ID) | X2 SETUP REQUEST, 3GPP TS 36.423 [25] clause 9.1.2.3 | X2 SETUP RESPONSE, 3GPP TS 36.423 [25] clause 9.1.2.4 | ENB CONFIGURATION UPDATE, 3GPP TS 36.423 [25] clause 9.1.2.8 | ENB CONFIGRATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE, 3GPP TS 36.423 [25] clause 9.1.2.9 |
| >X2  (when neighbour is en-gNB)  (Neighbour Global eNB ID) | EN-DC X2 SETUP REQUEST, 3GPP TS 36.423 [25] clause 9.1.2.31 | EN-DC X2 SETUP RESPONSE, 3GPP TS 36.423 [25] clause 9.1.2.32 | EN-DC CONFIGURATION UPDATE, 3GPP TS 36.423 [25] clause 9.1.2.34 | EN-DC CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE, 3GPP TS 36.423 [25] clause 9.1.2.35 |

### 9.2.28 E2 Node Component Configuration Acknowledge

This IE is used to carry the E2 Node component configuration update acknowledge of a specific E2 Node component.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Outcome | M |  | ENUMERATED (success, failure,…) |  |
| Cause | O |  | 9.2.1 | Cause for failure. |

### 9.2.29 Transport Layer Information

This information element provides Near-RT RIC address and optionally port number to be used by an E2 Node.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Transport Layer Address | M |  | BIT STRING (SIZE(1..160,…)) | To be passed to transport layer without interpretation. |
| Transport Layer Port | O |  | BIT STRING (SIZE(16)) | To be passed to transport layer without interpretation. |

### 9.2.30 TNL Association Usage

This information element provides TNL association usage.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| TNL Association Usage | M |  | ENUMERATED (ric service, support functions, both,..) | Indicates whether E2 connection to be used for RIC services only, or E2 support functions only, or both. |

### 9.2.31 RAN Function OID

This information element carries the RAN Function OID and shall uniquely refer to a specific E2 Service Model (E2SM).

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| RAN Function Service Model OID | M |  | PrintableString(SIZE(1..1000,...)) | Object Identifier of the specific RAN Function definition.  Formatted as per OID. |

### 9.2.32 E2 Node Component ID

This IE is used to locally identify an E2 node component.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| CHOICE E2 node component interface type | M |  |  |  |
| >NG |  |  |  |  |
| >>AMF name | M |  | 3GPP TS 38.413 [19] clause 9.3.3.21 | Serving AMF. |
| >Xn |  |  |  |  |
| >>Global NG-RAN Node ID | M |  | 3GPP TS 38.423 [20] clause 9.2.2.3 | Neighbour gNB or ng-eNB. |
| >E1 |  |  |  |  |
| >>gNB-CU-UP ID | M |  | 3GPP TS 37.483 [21] clause 9.3.1.15 |  |
| >F1 |  |  |  |  |
| >>gNB-DU ID | M |  | 3GPP TS 38.473 [22] clause 9.3.1.9 |  |
| >W1 |  |  |  |  |
| >>ng-eNB-DU ID | M |  | 3GPP TS 37.473 [23] clause 9.3.1.9 |  |
| >S1 |  |  |  |  |
| >>MME name | M |  | 3GPP TS 36.413 [24], clause 9.1.8.5 | Serving MME. |
| >X2 |  |  |  |  |
| >>Global eNB ID | O |  | 3GPP TS 36.423 [25] clause 9.2.22 | Neighbour eNB. |
| >>Global en-gNB ID | O |  | 3GPP TS 36.423 [25] clause 9.2.112 | Neighbour en-gNB. |

### 9.2.33 Transaction ID

The Transaction ID IE uniquely identifies a procedure among all ongoing parallel procedures of the same type initiated by the same protocol peer. Messages belonging to the same procedure shall use the same Transaction ID. The Transaction ID is determined by the initiating peer of a procedure.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Transaction ID | M |  | INTEGER (0..255, …) |  |

### 9.2.34 RIC Subscription Time

The RIC Subscription Time IE is used to set the start and end time of a RIC Subscription.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| RIC Subscription time | M |  | OCTET STRING (SIZE(8)) | Encoded using the 64-bit timestamp format as defined in clause 6 of IETF RFC 5905 [26]. |

### 9.2.35 RIC Action Execution Order

This IE is used to modify the default RIC service action execution order.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| RIC Action Execution Order | M |  | INTEGER (0..255, ...) | 0 used to indicate “Any-order” 1..255 Used to enforce a specific execution order. |

### 9.2.36 RIC Query Header

This information element carries the RIC Query Header.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| RIC Query Header | M |  | OCTET STRING | Defined in RAN Function specific E2 Service Model, see O-RAN WG3.TS.E2SM [3]. |

### 9.2.37 RIC Query Definition

This information element carries the RIC Query Definition.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| RIC Query Definition | M |  | OCTET STRING | Defined in RAN Function specific E2 Service Model, see O-RAN WG3.TS.E2SM [3]. |

### 9.2.38 RIC Query Outcome

This information element carries the RIC Query Outcome.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| RIC Query Outcome | M |  | OCTET STRING | Defined in RAN Function specific E2 Service Model, see O-RAN WG3.TS.E2SM [3]. |

### 9.2.39 RIC Subscription Audit Flag

The purpose of the RIC Subscription Audit Flag IE is to modify to E2 Node response to a RIC SUBSCRIPTION AUDIT REQUEST message.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE Type and Reference | Semantics Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Listed Records Only | O |  | ENUMERATED (true, ...) | If TRUE then E2 Node shall consider the listed records only. |

### 9.2.40 Load Measurement ID

This information element carries the Load Measurement ID allocated by Near-RT RIC and E2 Node.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Load measurement ID | M |  | INTEGER (1..4095,...) |  |

### 9.2.41 RIC Load Information

This information element is used to encode the load information from the E2 Node.  At least one of the listed IE shall be present.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Load Status | O |  | ENUMERATED (overload, not overload, ...) |  |
| Load Estimate | O |  | INTEGER (0..100) | Load estimation in percentage of capacity |

### 9.2.42 RIC Service Load Information

This information element carries the RIC Service Load Information for one or more RIC services.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| RIC Service Report Load Information | O |  | 9.2.41 | Used to carry load information on REPORT service |
| RIC Service Insert Load Information | O |  | 9.2.41 | Used to carry load information on INSERT service |
| RIC Service Control Load Information | O |  | 9.2.41 | Used to carry load information on CONTROL service |
| RIC Service Policy Load Information | O |  | 9.2.41 | Used to carry load information on POLICY service |
| RIC Service Query Load Information | O |  | 9.2.41 | Used to carry load information on QUERY service |

### 9.2.43 RIC Load Request

This information element requests reporting for the coreresponding RIC Load Information.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| RIC Load Request | M |  | ENUMERATED (true, ...) | If TRUE then the corresponding load information reporting is requested |

### 9.2.44 RIC Service Load Request

This information element requests reporting for the coreresponding RIC Load Information for one or more specific RIC services.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| RIC Service Report Load Request | O |  | 9.2.43 | Used to request reporting of load information on REPORT service |
| RIC Service Insert Load Request | O |  | 9.2.43 | Used to request reporting of load information on INSERT service |
| RIC Service Control Load Request | O |  | 9.2.43 | Used to request reporting of load information on CONTROL service |
| RIC Service Policy Load Request | O |  | 9.2.43 | Used to request reporting of load information on POLICY service |
| RIC Service Query Load Request | O |  | 9.2.43 | Used to request reporting of load information on QUERY service |

### 9.2.45 RIC Load Confirm

This information element cofirms reporting for the coreresponding RIC Load Information.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| RIC Load Confirm | M |  | ENUMERATED (true, ...) | If TRUE then the corresponding load information reporting is confirmed |

### 9.2.46 RIC Service Load Confirm

This information element confirms reporting for the coreresponding RIC Load Information for one or more specific RIC services.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| RIC Service Report Load Confirm | O |  | 9.2.45 | Used to confirm reporting of load information on REPORT service |
| RIC Service Insert Load Confirm | O |  | 9.2.45 | Used to confirm reporting of load information on INSERT service |
| RIC Service Control Load Confirm | O |  | 9.2.45 | Used to confirm reporting of load information on CONTROL service |
| RIC Service Policy Load Confirm | O |  | 9.2.45 | Used to confirm reporting of load information on POLICY service |
| RIC Service Query Load Confirm | O |  | 9.2.45 | Used to confirm reporting of load information on QUERY service |

### 9.2.47 RIC Assistance Header

This information element carries the RIC Assistance Header used to indicate a specific RIC Assistance service.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| RIC Assistance Header | M |  | OCTET STRING | Defined in RAN Function specific E2 Service Model, see O-RAN WG3.TS.E2SM [3]. |

### 9.2.48 RIC Assistance Message

This information element carries the RIC Assistance Message used to request a specific RIC Assistance service.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| RIC Assistance Message | M |  | OCTET STRING | Defined in RAN Function specific E2 Service Model, see O-RAN WG3.TS.E2SM [3]. |

### 9.2.49 RIC Assistance Update

This information element indicates if updates are requested for a RIC Assistance service.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| RIC Assistance Update | M |  | ENUMERATED (true, ...) | If TRUE, then the requested RIC Assistance service is to be updated |

### 9.2.50 RIC Assistance Update Number

This information element indicates the maximum number of updates for a requested RIC Assistance service.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| RIC Assistance Update Number | M |  | INTEGER (0..65535) |  |

### 9.2.51 RIC Assistance Outcome

This information element carries the RIC Assistance Outcome used to provide a specific RIC Assistance service.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| RIC Assistance Outcome | M |  | OCTET STRING | Defined in RAN Function specific E2 Service Model, see O-RAN WG3.TS.E2SM [3]. |

### 9.2.52 RIC Assistance SN

This information element indicates the RIC Assistance SN (Sequence Number).

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| RIC Assistance SN | M |  | INTEGER (0..65535) |  |

### 9.2.53 Service Level Cause

This information element carries the Service Level Cause message.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Service Level Cause | M |  | OCTET STRING | Defined in RAN Function specific E2 Service Model, see O-RAN WG3.TS.E2SM [3]. |

### 9.2.54 TNL Capacity Indicator

This IE is defined in [3] clause 6.2.3.38.

### 9.2.55 Hardware Load Indicator

This IE is defined in [3] clause 6.2.3.39.

## 9.3 Message and Information Element Abstract Syntax (with ASN.1)

### 9.3.1 General

E2AP ASN.1 definition conforms to Recommendation ITU-T X.691 [15], Recommendation ITU-T X.680 [16] and Recommendation ITU-T X.681 [17].

Sub clause 9.3 presents the Abstract Syntax of the E2AP protocol with ASN.1. In case there is contradiction between the ASN.1 definition in this sub clause and the tabular format in sub clause 9.1 and 9.2, the ASN.1 shall take precedence, except for the definition of conditions for the presence of conditional elements, in which the tabular format shall take precedence.

The ASN.1 definition specifies the structure and content of E2AP messages. E2AP messages can contain any IEs specified in the object set definitions for that message without the order or number of occurrences being restricted by ASN.1. However, for this version of the standard, a sending entity shall construct an E2AP message according to the PDU definitions module and with the following additional rules:

- -	IEs shall be ordered (in an IE container) in the order they appear in object set definitions.
- -	Object set definitions specify how many times IEs may appear. An IE shall appear exactly once if the presence field in an object has value "mandatory". An IE may appear at most once if the presence field in an object has value "optional" or "conditional". If in a tabular format there is multiplicity specified for an IE (i.e., an IE list) then in the corresponding ASN.1 definition the list definition is separated into two parts. The first part defines an IE container list where the list elements reside. The second part defines list elements. The IE container list appears as an IE of its own. For this version of the standard an IE container list may contain only one kind of list elements.
> NOTE:	In the above "IE" means an IE in the object set with an explicit ID. If one IE needs to appear more than once in one object set, then the different occurrences will have different IE IDs.
If an E2AP message that is not constructed as defined above is received, this shall be considered as Abstract Syntax Error, and the message shall be handled as defined for Abstract Syntax Error in clause 10.

### 9.3.2 Usage of private message mechanism for non-standard use

The private message mechanism for non-standard use is not supported with E2AP.

### 9.3.3 Elementary Procedure definitions

### 9.3.4 PDU definitions

id-RANfunctionsAcceptModified-List,

id-RANfunction-AcceptModified-Item,

-- **************************************************************

--

-- E2 Resource Status Elementary Procedure

--

-- **************************************************************

-- **************************************************************

--

-- E2 RESOURCE STATUS REQUEST

--

-- **************************************************************

E2ResourceStatusRequest::= SEQUENCE {

protocolIEs			ProtocolIE-Container       { {E2ResourceStatusRequestIEs} },

...

}

E2ResourceStatusRequestIEs E2AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {

{ ID id-TransactionID				CRITICALITY reject	TYPE TransactionID				PRESENCE mandatory	}|

{ ID id-RICLoadMeasurementID		CRITICALITY reject	TYPE LoadMeasurementID			PRESENCE mandatory	}|

{ ID id-E2NodeLoadMeasurementID		CRITICALITY ignore	TYPE LoadMeasurementID			PRESENCE conditional}|

-- This IE shall be present if the Registration Request IE is set to the value "stop" or "add". --

{ ID id-RegistrationRequest-E2		CRITICALITY ignore	TYPE RegistrationRequest-E2		PRESENCE mandatory}|

{ ID id-ReportCharacteristics		CRITICALITY ignore	TYPE ReportCharacteristics		PRESENCE conditional}|

-- This IE shall be present if the Registration Request IE is set to the value "start". --

{ ID id-ReportingPeriodicity-E2		CRITICALITY ignore	TYPE ReportingPeriodicity-E2	PRESENCE optional},

...

}

-- **************************************************************

--

-- E2 RESOURCE STATUS RESPONSE

--

-- **************************************************************

E2ResourceStatusResponse ::= SEQUENCE {

protocolIEs			ProtocolIE-Container       { { E2ResourceStatusResponseIEs} },

...

}

E2ResourceStatusResponseIEs E2AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {

{ ID id-TransactionID				CRITICALITY reject	TYPE TransactionID			PRESENCE mandatory	}|

{ ID id-RICLoadMeasurementID		CRITICALITY reject	TYPE LoadMeasurementID		PRESENCE mandatory	}|

{ ID id-E2NodeLoadMeasurementID		CRITICALITY	reject	TYPE LoadMeasurementID		PRESENCE mandatory }|

{ ID id-CriticalityDiagnostics		CRITICALITY ignore	TYPE CriticalityDiagnostics	PRESENCE optional },

...

}

-- **************************************************************

--

-- E2 RESOURCE STATUS FAILURE

--

-- **************************************************************

E2ResourceStatusFailure ::= SEQUENCE {

protocolIEs			ProtocolIE-Container       { { E2ResourceStatusFailureIEs} },

...

}

E2ResourceStatusFailureIEs E2AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {

{ ID id-TransactionID				CRITICALITY reject	TYPE TransactionID			PRESENCE mandatory	}|

{ ID id-RICLoadMeasurementID		CRITICALITY reject	TYPE LoadMeasurementID		PRESENCE mandatory	}|

{ ID id-E2NodeLoadMeasurementID		CRITICALITY	reject	TYPE LoadMeasurementID		PRESENCE mandatory	}|

{ ID id-Cause						CRITICALITY ignore	TYPE Cause					PRESENCE mandatory	}|

{ ID id-CriticalityDiagnostics		CRITICALITY ignore	TYPE CriticalityDiagnostics	PRESENCE optional },

...

}

-- **************************************************************

--

-- E2 Resource Status Update Elementary Procedure

--

-- **************************************************************

-- **************************************************************

--

-- E2 RESOURCE STATUS UPDATE

--

-- **************************************************************

E2ResourceStatusUpdate ::= SEQUENCE {

protocolIEs			ProtocolIE-Container       {{ E2ResourceStatusUpdateIEs}},

...

}

E2ResourceStatusUpdateIEs E2AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {

{ ID id-TransactionID					CRITICALITY reject	TYPE TransactionID				PRESENCE mandatory	}|

{ ID id-RICLoadMeasurementID			CRITICALITY reject	TYPE LoadMeasurementID			PRESENCE mandatory	}|

{ ID id-E2NodeLoadMeasurementID			CRITICALITY	reject	TYPE LoadMeasurementID			PRESENCE madnatory	}|

{ ID id-TNLCapacityIndicator			CRITICALITY ignore	TYPE TNLCapacityIndicator		PRESENCE optional	}|

{ ID id-HardwareLoadIndicator			CRITICALITY ignore	TYPE HardwareLoadIndicator			PRESENCE optional	},

...

}

RANfunctions-AcceptModified-List ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxofRANfunctionID)) OF ProtocolIE-SingleContainer { {RANfunction-AcceptModified-ItemIEs} }

RANfunction-AcceptModified-ItemIEs 	E2AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {

{ ID id-RANfunction-AcceptModified-Item			CRITICALITY ignore 	TYPE RANfunction-AcceptModified-Item 			PRESENCE mandatory	},

...

}

RANfunction-AcceptModified-Item ::= SEQUENCE {

ranFunctionID				RANfunctionID,

revRanFunctionDefinition	RANfunctionDefinition,

ranFunctionRevision			RANfunctionRevision,

...

}

### 9.3.5 Information Element definitions

### 9.3.6 Common definitions

### 9.3.7 Constant definitions

id-RANfunction-AcceptModified-Item					ProtocolIE-ID ::= 139

### 9.3.8 Container definitions

## 9.4 Message transfer syntax

E2AP shall use the ASN.1 Basic Packed Encoding Rules (BASIC-PER) Aligned Variant as transfer syntax, as specified in Recommendation ITU-T X.691 [15].

## 9.5 Timers

The following Timers are defined for use over the E2 interface in Near-RT RIC and E2 Node.

TRICEVENTcreate

- -	Specifies the maximum time for the RIC Subscription procedure in the Near-RT RIC.
TRICEVENTdelete

- -	Specifies the maximum time for the RIC Subscription Deletion procedure in the Near-RT RIC.
TRICEVENTmodify

- -	Specifies the maximum time for the RIC Subscription Modification procedure in the Near-RT RIC.
TRICcontrol

- -	Specifies the maximum time for the RIC Control procedure in the Near-RT RIC.
TRICquery

- -	Specifies the maximum time for the RIC Query procedure in the Near-RT RIC.

# 10 Handling of unknown, unforeseen and erroneous protocol data

Clause 10 of 3GPP TS 36.413 [24] is applicable for the purposes of the present document.


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG3.TS.E2GAP-R004-v08.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG3.TS.E2GAP-R004-v08.00 O-RAN Work Group 3 (Near-RT RIC and E2 Interface)   E2 General Aspects and Principles (E2GAP)"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms

For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1] apply.

E2 Service Model: collection of E2AP IEs that are specified in O-RAN WG3.TS.E2AP [2] to have RAN Function specific definitions.

## 3.2 Symbols

Void.

## 3.3 Abbreviations

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1] apply.

In addition, the abbreviations defined in O-RAN WG1.TS.OAD [18] and the following also apply.

- **RAT**: Radio Access Technology
- **TNL**: Transport Network Layer
- **TNLA**: TNL Association

# 4 E2 interface architecture

## 4.1 General architecture principles

The general principles guiding the definition of the E2 interface between Near-RT RIC and E2 Nodes are the following:

- -	Near-RT RIC and E2 Node functions are fully separated from transport functions. Addressing scheme used in Near-RT RIC and the E2 Nodes shall not be tied to the addressing schemes of transport functions.
- -	The E2 Nodes support all protocol layers and interfaces defined within 3GPP radio access networks that include eNB for E-UTRAN, 3GPP TS 36.300 [25] and 3GPP TS 36.401 [5], and gNB/ ng-eNB for NG-RAN, 3GPP TS 38.300 [16] and 3GPP TS 38.401 [6].
- -	Near-RT RIC may use the set of RIC Services that are exposed by an E2 Node.
- -	E2 Node may use the set of RIC Services that are exposed by the Near-RT RIC.
- -	The E2 Node shall describe the available RIC Services using a series of RAN function and Radio Access Technology (RAT) dependent "E2 Service Models".
- -	E2 interfaces are defined along the following principles:

## 4.2 O-RAN architecture considerations

The Near-RT RIC and E2 Nodes connected by the E2 interface, as presented in Figure 4.2-1, are part of the overall O-RAN Architecture O-RAN WG1.TS.OAD [18].

With respect to the E2 interface:

- -	E2 is a logical interface connecting the Near-RT RIC with an E2 Node:
- -	An E2 Node is connected to only one Near-RT RIC.
- -	A Near-RT RIC can be connected to multiple E2 Nodes, i.e. multiple O-CU-CPs, O-CU-UPs, O-DUs and O-eNBs.
- -	F1 (F1-C, F1-U) and E1 are logical 3GPP interfaces, whose protocols, termination points and cardinalities are specified in NG-RAN, 3GPP TS 38.401 [6].
The Near-RT RIC use E2 interface to collect near real-time information (e.g. UE basis, Cell basis) and provide value added services.

The protocols over E2 interface are based exclusively on Control plane protocols and are defined in O-RAN WG3.TS.E2AP [2].

# 5 E2 interface

## 5.1 E2 interface requirements and general principles

### 5.1.1 E2 interface requirements

The E2 interface shall support the following requirements:

- -	E2 interface requirements and general principes shall comply with the general O-RAN architecture principles specified in O-RAN WG1.TS.OAD [18].
- -	E2 interface shall uniquely identify each E2 Node configured to directly provide RIC Services to the Near-RT RIC.
- -	A given Near-RT RIC may support E2 connections from multiple E2 Nodes, each supporting a specific RAT type.
- -	E2 interface shall expose from the E2 Node a list of RAN Functions supporting RIC Services and the corresponding E2 Service Model.
- -	E2 interface shall allow the Near-RT RIC to address specific RAN Functions in a specific E2 Node.
- -	E2 node shall function independently of the Near-RT RIC when and if the E2 interface and/or Near-RT RIC fails.
- - 	E2 interface shall support latency requirements for near-real-time optimization, i.e. from 10 milliseconds up to 1 second as specified in O-RAN WG1.TS.OAD [18].
- -	RAN Functions supported over E2 interface shall be subject to the capability of the E2 Node exposed over the E2 interface by means of the E2 Service Model.
- - 	E2 Service Model shall describe the RAN Functions in the E2 Node that may be optimized by the Near RT RIC.
- -	For a RAN Function exposed in the E2 Service Model, the Near-RT RIC may e.g. monitor, override or control via policies the behaviour of E2 node.

### 5.1.2 E2 interface general principles

The general principles for the specification of the E2 interface are as follows:

- -	E2 interface is open;
- -	E2 interface supports the exchange of control signalling information between the endpoints;
- -	E2 is a point-to-point interface between the endpoints on Near-RT RIC and E2 Node;
- -	E2 interface definition supports interface management procedures based on principles from 3GPP RAN interfaces;
- -	E2 interface provides the capability to send predefined information towards the Near-RT RIC based on a pre-configured trigger event;
- -	E2 interface supports the ability to provide UE ID information towards the Near-RT RIC based on a pre-configured trigger event;
- -	E2 interface enables the Near-RT-RIC to direct the E2 Node to interrupt an associated procedure and forward the relevant information to the Near-RT RIC based on a pre-configured trigger event;
- -	E2 interface supports the ability to send control messages (e.g. UE basis, Cell basis) to the E2 Node;
- -	E2 interface supports the ability to provide the E2 Node with a set of policies to use when defined events occur;
- -	E2 interface supports the ability for E2 Node to inform the Near-RT RIC of what functionality it supports;
- -	E2 interface supports the ability to query the E2 Node for relevant RAN- and/or UE-related information;
-	E2 interface supports the ability for E2 node to consume services produced by the Near-RT RIC.

With respect to the E2 interface, the E2 Node consists of:

- -	Logical E2 Agent used to terminate the E2 interface, support global services and to forward/receive RIC service messages towards RAN Functions.
- -	One or more RAN Functions that support RIC services exposed by the E2 Node to the Near-RT RIC.
- -	Other RAN functions that do not support RIC Services.

## 5.2 E2 interface specification objectives

The E2 interface specifications shall facilitate the following:

- -	Connectivity between Near-RT RIC and E2 Node supplied by different vendors;
- -	Exposure of selected E2 Node data (e.g. configuration information (cell configuration, supported slices, PLMNs, etc.), network measurements, context information, etc.) towards the Near-RT RIC;
- -	Enables the Near-RT RIC to control selected RAN functions on the E2 Node.

## 5.3 Functions of the E2 interface

### 5.3.1 General

The E2 functions are grouped into the following categories:

RIC services supported by RIC functional procedures:

- -	RIC Services (REPORT, INSERT, CONTROL, POLICY, QUERY and ASSISTANCE), as described in clause 5.3.2) supported by RIC functional procedures (RIC Subscription, RIC Subscription Modification, RIC Subscription Modification Required, RIC Subscription Delete, RIC Subscription Delete Required, RIC Subscription Audit, RIC Subscription State Control, RIC Indication, RIC Control, RIC Query, RIC Service Load Status, RIC Service Load Update, RIC Assistance, RIC Assistance Indication, RIC Assistance Halt).
Global procedures:

- -	Interface Management procedures (E2 Setup, Reset, E2 Node Configuration Update, E2 connection Update, E2 Removal, E2 Resource Status, E2 Resource Status Update, Error Indication)
- -	RAN Function procedures (RIC Service Update, RIC Service Query).

### 5.3.2 RIC services and related procedures

#### 5.3.2.1 RIC services

Near-RT RIC may use the following RIC services provided by an E2 node:

- -	REPORT: Near-RT RIC uses a RIC Subscription and/or RIC Subscription Modification procedures to request that E2 Node sends a REPORT message to Near-RT RIC and the associated procedure continues in the E2 Node after each occurrence of a defined RIC Subscription procedure Event Trigger.
- -	INSERT: Near-RT RIC uses a RIC Subscription and/or RIC Subscription Modification procedures to request that E2 Node sends an INSERT message to Near-RT RIC after each occurrence of a defined RIC Subscription procedure Event Trigger.
- -	CONTROL: Near-RT RIC sends a CONTROL message to E2 Node to initiate a new associated procedure or resume an associated procedure in the E2 Node.
- -	POLICY: Near-RT RIC uses a RIC Subscription and/or RIC Subscription Modification procedures to request that E2 Node executes a specific POLICY during functioning of the E2 Node after each occurrence of a defined RIC Subscription procedure Event Trigger.
- -	QUERY: Near-RT RIC sends a QUERY message to the E2 node to retrieve RAN-related and/or UE-related information from the E2 Node.
E2 Node may use the following RIC services provided by the Near-RT RIC:

- -	ASSISTANCE: E2 Node sends an ASSISTANCE message to the Near-RT RIC to utilize a service offered by the Near-RT RIC.

#### 5.3.2.2 REPORT service

The REPORT service involves following steps:

- 1)	Near-RT RIC configures, and subsequently may modify, a RIC Subscription in the E2 Node with information for Indication (Report) that is to be sent by the E2 Node with each occurrence of RIC trigger event condition
- 2)	During normal functioning of an associated procedure in the E2 Node, a RIC Event Trigger is detected.
- 3) 	After completing any previous RIC actions, E2 Node sends RIC INDICATION message to Near-RT RIC containing the requested REPORT information along with the originating Request ID.
- 4)	Associated procedure continues in the E2 Node, including any subsequent RIC actions.

#### 5.3.2.3 INSERT service

The INSERT service involves following steps:

- 1)	Near-RT RIC configures, and subsequently may modify, a RIC Subscription in the E2 Node with information for an INSERT action, along with an associated Subsequent Action Information (Subsequent Action type, Time to Wait timer), that is to be performed by E2 Node with each occurrence of Event.
- 2)	During normal functioning of an associated procedure in the E2 Node, a trigger event is detected.
- 3)	After completing any previous RIC actions, E2 Node waits for the corresponding response for up to a defined Time to Wait period.
- 4)	E2 Node sends RIC INDICATION message to Near-RT RIC containing the requested INSERT information along with the originating Request ID and information to identify the associated procedure.
- 5)	According to the Time to Wait timer state, arrival of RIC CONTROL procedure, and Subsequent Action parameter in the RIC Subscription, the E2 Node may then:

#### 5.3.2.4 CONTROL service

The CONTROL service involves following steps:

Near-RT RIC detects an event trigger. This step may be triggered by either:

- 1)	Near-RT RIC performs an action.
- 2)	Near-RT RIC sends a RIC CONTROL REQUEST message to E2 Node. This message may contain information to identify the associated procedure, and may request acknowledgement from the E2 Node. The Near-RT RIC shall set the timer TRICcontrol if either acknowledgement has been requested or the optional acknowledgement request was not present in the RIC CONTROL REQUEST message.
- 3)	The E2 Node cancels the associated Time to Wait timer if previously set, and initiates or resumes the associated procedure.
- 4)	E2 Node then:
- 5)	If previously set, the Near-RT RIC shall cancel the TRICcontrol timer

#### 5.3.2.5 POLICY service

The POLICY service involves following steps:

- 1)	Near-RT RIC configures, and subsequently may modify, a RIC Subscription in the E2 Node with information used to configure a POLICY that is to be performed by E2 Node with each occurrence of trigger event
- 2)	During normal functioning of the E2 Node, a trigger event is detected.
- 3)	After completing any previous RIC actions, E2 Node modifies ongoing call process according to information contained in the POLICY description statement
- 4)	Associated procedure continues in the E2 Node, including any subsequent RIC actions.
Note that if previously configured with a dedicated RIC Subscription, the E2 Node may send a REPORT used to provide information on the associated procedure outcome.  See clause 5.3.2.2 for details.

#### 5.3.2.5A QUERY service

The QUERY service involves following steps:

- 1)	Near-RT RIC determines need for RAN and/or UE-related information from the E2 node.
- 2)	Near-RT RIC sends a RIC QUERY REQUEST message to E2 Node. This message contains the requested information that needs to be fetched from the E2 Node. The Near-RT RIC shall set the timer TRICquery awaiting response from the E2 node.
- 3)	E2 node attempts to retrieve the requested information for the Near-RT RIC.
- 4)	E2 Node then:

#### 5.3.2.5B ASSISTANCE services

The ASSISTANCE request/response service involves following steps:

- 1.	E2 Node determines need for RIC Assistance service from the Near-RT RIC.
- 2.	E2 Node sends a RIC ASSISTANCE REQUEST message to Near-RT RIC. This message contains information about the service to be provided from the Near-RT RIC and may contain request for one or more subsequent updates.
- 3.	Near-RT RIC attempts to provide the requested service for the E2 Node.
- 4.	Near-RT RIC then:
- 5.	If requested and if the Near-RT RIC may subsequently provide an updated assistance service for the E2 Node, then the Near-RT RIC sends one or more ASSISTANCE INDICATION message.  This step may require Near-RT RIC to fetch information from one or more E2 Nodes.
- 6.	E2 Node may send RIC ASSISTANCE HALT message to halt the subsequent updates of the requested assistance service

#### 5.3.2.6 RIC service realization and relationship with E2AP procedures

The RIC Services may be realized using the following RIC Functional procedures:

RIC Subscription procedure (Near-RT RIC initiated)

- -	Used to install Event Trigger and associated sequence of Actions corresponding to one or more RIC services REPORT, INSERT and/or POLICY
RIC Subscription Modification procedure (Near-RT RIC initiated)

- -	Used to modify Event Trigger and/or add, modify and/or remove associated sequence of Actions corresponding to one or more RIC services REPORT, INSERT and/or POLICY
RIC Subscription Modification Required procedure (E2 Node initiated)

- -	Used to request modification and/or removal of associated sequence of Actions corresponding to one or more RIC services REPORT, INSERT and/or POLICY
RIC Subscription Delete procedure (Near-RT RIC initiated)

- -	Used to delete previously installed RIC Subscription
RIC Subscription Delete Required procedure (E2 Node initiated)

- -	Used to indicate that one or more previously installed RIC Subscriptions are required to be deleted
RIC Subscription Audit procedure (Near-RT RIC initiated)

- -	Used to audit list of previously installed RIC Subscriptions
RIC Subscription State Control procedure (Near-RT RIC initiated)

- -	Used to suspend and/or resume a list of previously installed RIC Subscriptions
RIC Indication procedure (E2 Node initiated)

- -	Used to carry outcome of RIC services REPORT and INSERT
RIC Control procedure (Near-RT RIC initiated)

- -	Used to initiate RIC service CONTROL
RIC Query procedure (Near-RT RIC initiated)

- Used to request RAN and/or UE related information from E2 Node
RIC Service Load Status procedure (Near-RT RIC initiated)

- -	Used to request that E2 Node reports RIC Service level load updates
RIC Service Load Update procedure (E2 Node initiated)

- -	Used to report load status information for one or more RIC services
The relationship between RIC Services and E2AP procedures related to RIC Subscription is presented in table 5.3.2.6-1A and the relationship between RIC Services and other E2AP procedures is presented in table 5.3.2.6-1B.

| E2AP Procedure | RIC Service |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| E2AP Procedure | REPORT | INSERT | POLICY |
| RIC Subscription | Installs one or more REPORT Services associated with a RIC Subscription | Installs one or more INSERT Services associated with a RIC Subscription | Installs one or more POLICY Services associated with a RIC Subscription |
| RIC Subscription Modification | Adds, Modifies and/or Removes one or more REPORT Services associated with a RIC Subscription | Adds, Modifies and/or Removes one or more INSERT Services associated with a RIC Subscription | Adds, Modifies and/or Removes one or more POLICY Services associated with a RIC Subscription |
| RIC Subscription Modification Required | Requests Modification and/or Removal of one or more REPORT Services associated with a RIC Subscription | Requests Modification and/or Removal of one or more INSERT Services associated with a RIC Subscription | Requests Modification and/or Removal of one or more POLICY Services associated with a RIC Subscription |
| RIC Subscription Delete | Deletes all REPORT Services associated with one or more RIC Subscriptions | Deletes all INSERT Services associated with one or more RIC Subscriptions | Deletes all POLICY Service associated with one or more RIC Subscriptions |
| RIC Subscription Delete Required | Requests Near-RT RIC to delete all REPORT Services associated with one or more RIC Subscriptions | Requests Near-RT RIC to delete all INSERT Services associated with one or more RIC Subscriptions | Requests Near-RT RIC to delete all POLICY Services associated with one or more RIC Subscriptions |
| RIC Subscription State Control | Suspends and/or Resumes one or more REPORT Services associated with one or more RIC Subscriptions | Suspends and/or Resumes one or more INSERT Services associated with one or more RIC Subscriptions | Suspends and/or Resumes one or more POLICY Services associated with one or more RIC Subscriptions |
| RIC Subscription Audit | Audits list of established RIC Subscriptions |  |  |

| E2AP Procedure | RIC Service |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| E2AP Procedure | REPORT | INSERT | CONTROL | POLICY | QUERY |
| RIC Indication | Carries outcome of REPORT Service | Carries outcome of INSERT Service |  |  |  |
| RIC Control |  | Initiates CONTROL Service |  |  |  |
| RIC Query |  | Initiates QUERY service |  |  |  |
| RIC Service Load Status | Initiates reporting on load of REPORT service | Initiates reporting on load of INSERT service | Initiates reporting on load of CONTROL service | Initiates reporting on load of POLICY service | Initiates reporting on load of QUERY service |
| RIC Service Load Update | Carries information on load of REPORT service | Carries information on load of INSERT service | Carries information on load of CONTROL service | Carries information on load of POLICY service | Carries information on load of QUERY service |

The RIC Subscription, RIC Subscription Modification, RIC Subscription Modification Required, RIC Subscription Delete, and RIC Subscription Delete Required procedures are used to establish, modify or delete RIC subscriptions on the E2 Node. The RIC Subscription State Control procedure is used to suspend and/or resume one or more RIC Subscriptions. The RIC Subscription Audit procedure is used to audit the list of established RIC Subscriptions.

The RIC Subscription, RIC Subscription Modification, RIC Subscription Delete, RIC Subscription Audit and RIC Subscription State Control procedures are initiated by the Near-RT RIC (Figure 5.3.2.6-1). In addition, the E2 Node may initiate a RIC Subscription Delete Required procedure to request removal of one or more existing RIC Subscriptions (Figure 5.3.2.6-2) and a RIC Subscription Modification Required procedure to request the modification or removal of one or more existing RIC services within an existing RIC Subscription (Figure 5.3.2.6-3).

RIC Service Load Update procedure is used by the E2 Node to report the RIC Service load information related to one or more RIC Services. These reports shall be sent by the E2 Node if requested by the Near-RT RIC using the RIC Service Load Status procedure (Figure 5.3.2.6-4).

### 5.3.3 Combining RIC services within a common RIC Subscription

RIC services defined in clause 5.3.2 may be combined within a common Subscription with each RIC Service implemented as part of a sequence of Actions.

Where appropriate in these cases, successive REPORT or INSERT messages sent to Near-RT RIC under the same subscription event trigger would contain the same assigned Subscription Request identifier, the same optional sequence number and each message with the unique assigned Action identifier.

Examples include:

- -	POLICY then REPORT.  In this case, at each occurrence of the defined Event Trigger, the E2 Node would be instructed to first execute a defined POLICY and then send a defined REPORT message
- -	REPORT then REPORT.  In this case, at each occurrence of the defined Event Trigger, the E2 Node would be instructed to first send a defined REPORT message to be followed by a second defined REPORT message containing normally different information.
When more than one RIC service action has been accepted by the E2 Node then actions shall be executed as specified in O-RAN WG3.TS.E2AP [2].

### 5.3.4 Combining RIC services as a sequence of RIC services

RIC services defined in clause 5.3.2 may be combined using a sequence of different RIC services implemented using a procedure executed within the Near-RT RIC.

Examples include:

- -	REPORT followed by POLICY.  In this case, at each occurrence of the defined Event Trigger, the E2 Node would be instructed to send a defined REPORT message.  The Near-RT RIC would use the information from one or more successive REPORT messages as input to a procedure that may result in a change or establishment of a RIC POLICY service.
- -	INSERT followed by CONTROL. In this case, at each occurrence of the defined Event Trigger, the E2 Node would be instructed to send a defined INSERT message containing information used to identify the associated procedure and then the Near-RT RIC would send a corresponding CONTROL message containing information used to identify a previous suspended associated procedure.
- -	REPORT followed by CONTROL. In this case, at each occurrence of the defined Event Trigger, the E2 Node would be instructed to send a defined REPORT message.  The Near-RT RIC would use the information from one or more successive REPORT messages as input to a procedure that may result in a RIC CONTROL service message being sent to initiate an associated procedure in the E2 Node.

## 5.4 RAN Function E2 Service Model

As described in clause 5.1 the E2 interface is used to carry messages between a given E2 Node and Near-RT RIC. These messages may contain RAN Function specific content which is described in the corresponding RAN Function specific E2 Service Model.

Each RAN Function is described in the following terms:

- -	RAN Function Definition. Defines the RAN Function Name and describes the RIC Services that the specific RAN Function is currently configured to present over the E2 interface.
- -	RIC Event Trigger Definition approach. Describes the approach to be used in RIC Subscription and RIC Subscription Modification procedures to set or modify the RIC Event Trigger Definition in the RAN Function for RIC Services REPORT, INSERT and/or POLICY.
- -	RIC Action Definition approach.  Describes the approach to be used in RIC Subscription and RIC Subscription Modification procedures to set or modify the required sequence of RIC Action in the RAN Function for RIC Services REPORT, INSERT and/or POLICY.
- -	RIC Indication Header and RIC Indication Message approach.  Describes the approach to be used in RIC Indication procedure for RIC Services REPORT and INSERT.
- -	RIC Control Header and RIC Control Message approach.  Describes the approach to be used in RIC Control procedure for RIC Service CONTROL.
- -	RIC Call Process ID approach. Describes the approach to be used by the E2 node in RIC Indication procedure for RIC Service INSERT. The same IE is used in the subsequent RIC Control procedure for RIC Service CONTROL.
- -	RIC Control Outcome approach. Describes the approach to be used by the E2 node in RIC Control procedure for RIC service CONTROL.
- -	RAN Function Policies. Describes the set of policies that the RAN Function is configured to support and the corresponding Parameters that may be used to configure the policy using RIC Service POLICY.
- -	RIC Query Header and RIC Query Definition approach. Describes the approach to be used by the Near-RT RIC in RIC Query procedure for RIC Service QUERY.
- -	RIC Query Outcome approach. Describes the approach to be used by the E2 node in RIC Query procedure for RIC Service QUERY.
- -	RIC Assistance Header and RIC Assistance Message approach.  Describes the approach to be used in RIC Assistance procedure for RIC Service ASSISTANCE.
- -	RIC Assistance Outcome approach. Describes the approach to be used by the Near-RT RIC in RIC Assistance procedure for RIC Service ASSISTANCE.
- -	Service Level Cause approach. Describes the approach to be used across all RIC Functional procedures for reporting service level faults.

## 5.5 Global procedures

### 5.5.1 General

The E2 interface supports the following global procedures:

- -	E2 Setup
- -	Reset
- -	Error Indication
- -	RIC Service Update
- -	RIC Service Query
- -	E2 Node Configuration Update
- -	E2 Connection Update
- -	E2 Removal
- -	E2 Resource Status
- -	E2 Resource Status Update
The E2 Setup, Reset, RIC Service Update, RIC Service Query, E2 Node Configuration Update, E2 Removal, E2 Resource Status and E2 Resource Status Procedure procedures are described in further details in the following clauses. E2 Connection Update is described in clause 6.2.

### 5.5.2 E2 Setup procedure

The E2 Setup procedure is used to establish the E2 interface between the Near-RT RIC and an E2 Node.  During this procedure the E2 Node provides:

- -	List of supported RIC services and mapping of services to functions within the E2 Node. This information is specific to each RAN Function in the E2 node and is defined by a specific E2 Service Model as described in clause 5.4
- -	List of E2 Node configuration information.  The configuration information is specific to the E2 Node type (see clause 4.2) and based on the re-use of 3GPP RAN3 defined configuration update messages.
If the E2 Setup procedure fails, the Near-RT RIC may provide an alternative Transport Layer Information for the E2 Node to use when reinitiating the E2 Setup procedure.

If a RAN Function received from the E2 Node contains one or more RIC assistance services, and some of them cannot be supported by the Near-RT RIC, the Near-RT RIC may respond to the E2 Node with a revised RAN Function that excludes the unsupported RIC assistance services while retaining the rest.

### 5.5.3 Reset procedure

The Reset procedure is used by either the E2 Node or Near-RT RIC to reset the E2 interface.

Information previous exchanged during E2 Setup, E2 Node Configuration Update and RIC Service Update procedures shall be maintained however the outcome of all previous RIC Subscription shall be deleted from the E2 Node and E2 Node gracefully terminates any ongoing RIC Services.

The Near-RT RIC may then proceed to re-establish any RIC Subscriptions as required.

### 5.5.4 RIC Service Update procedure

The RIC Service Update procedure is used by the E2 Node to inform the Near-RT RIC of any change to the list of supported RIC services and mapping of services to functions within the E2 Node. This information is specific to each RAN Function in the E2 node and is defined by a specific E2 Service Model as described in clause 5.4.

If a RAN Function received from the E2 Node contains one or more RIC assistance services, and some of them cannot be supported by the Near-RT RIC, the Near-RT RIC may respond to the E2 Node with a revised RAN Function that excludes the unsupported RIC assistance services while retaining the rest.

### 5.5.4A RIC Service Query procedure

The RIC Service Query procedure is used by the Near-RT RIC to query the E2 Node with respect to the current list of supported RIC Services. The query procedure may be used to either request a complete list of supported RIC services or to request that the E2 Node compares the list of RIC Services provided in the query message with its current list of supported RIC Services.

This procedure is initiated by the Near-RT RIC sending a RIC SERVICE QUERY message.

### 5.5.5 E2 Node Configuration Update procedure

The E2 Node Configuration Update procedure is used by the E2 Node to inform the Near-RT RIC of any change to the configuration of the E2 Node and/or E2 Node initiated changes to TNL Associations associated with the E2 interface.  The configuration information is specific to the E2 Node type (see clause 4.2) and based on the re-use of 3GPP RAN3 defined configuration update messages.

See clause 6.2 for further details on E2 Node Configuration Update procedure usage for E2 Node initiated changes to TNL Associations associated with the E2 interface.

### 5.5.6 E2 Removal procedure

The E2 Removal procedure is used by either the E2 Node or Near-RT RIC to release the E2 signalling connection.

If the procedure is E2 node initiated, after the E2 REMOVAL RESPONSE is received, the E2 node initiates termination of all TNL associations associated with this E2 interface. The Near-RT RIC and E2 nodes releases all resources associated with this E2 interface. If the E2 Removal procedure fails, the E2 node may retry the E2 Removal procedure.

If the procedure is Near-RT RIC initiated, after the E2 REMOVAL RESPONSE is received, the Near-RT RIC initiates termination of all TNL associations associated with this E2 interface. The Near-RT RIC and E2 nodes releases all resources associated with this E2 interface. If the E2 Removal procedure fails, the Near-RT RIC may retry the E2 Removal procedure.

### 5.5.7 E2 Resource Status

This procedure is used by a Near-RT RIC to request the reporting of load measurements to E2 node. During this procedure, the E2 Node provides the E2 node level resource status and traffic load information over the E2 interface.

If the E2 Resource Status initiation fails, the Near-RT RIC may retry the E2 Resource Status initiation procedure.

### 5.5.8 E2 Resource Status Update

The E2 Resource Status Update is used by the E2 Node to inform the Near-RT RIC of the results of the resource measurements that were successfully initiated during the preceding E2 Resource Status procedure (see clause 5.5.7). After the E2 Resource Status Update is received containing information describing the available resources in the E2 Node, the Near-RT RIC may suspend the initiation of new RIC procedures or may initiate RIC Subscription Delete procedures to reduce E2 Node load.

# 6 E2 interface signalling

## 6.1 E2 control plane protocol (E2AP)

The control plane protocol stack of the E2AP interface is shown on Figure 6.1-1.

The transport network layer is built on IP transport. For the reliable transport of signalling messages, IETF RFC 4960 [12] is added on top of IP.

When configurations with multiple SCTP associations are supported, the Near-RT RIC may request to dynamically add/remove SCTP associations between the E2 Node/Near-RT RIC pair. Within the set of SCTP associations established between one Near-RT RIC and E2 node pair, the Near-RT RIC may request the E2 Node to restrict the usage of SCTP association for certain types of E2 signalling. If no restriction information is provided for an SCTP association, any type of E2 signalling is allowed via the SCTP association.

The application layer signalling protocol is referred to as E2AP (E2 Application Protocol). The Payload Protocol Identifier assigned by IANA to be used by SCTP for the application layer protocol E2AP is 70. This value is to be used for all deployment configurations described in the present document. Payload Protocol Identifiers 71 and 72, also assigned by IANA for E2, are reserved for future use.

No SCTP Destination Port number value was assigned by IANA for the E2AP protocol and so networks shall rely on E2 node and Near-RT RIC configuration to select a suitable port number.

## 6.2 Multiple TNLAs over E2

The Near-RT RIC and E2 Node supports multiple TNL associations over E2 interface.

An initial TNL association is established during E2 Setup procedure with E2 Node initiating SCTP connection.  At this point the single TNL association is configured to be used for both RIC Services (clause 5.3) and E2 Support functions (clause 5.5).

TNL associations may then be added, modified or removed during subsequent E2 Connection Update and E2 Node Configuration Update procedures with E2 Node initiating SCTP connections where required.

When the Near-RT RIC requests to dynamically add additional SCTP associations between the Near-RT RIC/E2 Node pair, the Near-RT RIC sends additional SCTP endpoints using the E2 Connection Update procedure. The E2 Node shall establish the SCTP associations. The SCTP Destination Port number value may be the same port number used for the initial E2 Setup procedure, or any dynamic port value (IETF RFC 6335 [23]).

Within the set of SCTP associations established between one Near-RT RIC and E2 node pair, a single SCTP association shall be employed for E2AP elementary procedures utilized for E2 Support Function signalling (i.e. defined in O-RAN WG3.TS.E2AP [2] clause 8.3) with the possibility of fail-over to a new association to enable robustness.

When the configuration with multiple SCTP endpoints per E2 node is supported and E2 node wants to add an additional SCTP association, the E2 Node Configuration Update procedure shall be the first E2AP procedure triggered on an additional TNLA of an already setup E2 interface after the TNL association has become operational. The E2 Node uses a SCTP endpoint of the Near-RT RIC already in use for existing TNL associations between the Near-RT RIC/E2 Node pair when establishing the additional SCTP association, and the Near-RT RIC shall associate the TNLA to the E2 interface using the included Global E2 Node ID. The E2 Node uses the E2 Node Configuration Update procedure when it wants to remove additional SCTP association.

The RIC Subscription TNLA binding is a binding between a specific TNL association and RIC Service signalling (i.e. defined in O-RAN WG3.TS.E2AP [2] clause 8.2) of a specific RIC Subscription. After the RIC Subscription TNLA binding is created, the Near-RT RIC can update the RIC Subscription TNLA binding by sending the E2AP message for the RIC Subscription to the E2 Node via a different TNLA. The E2 Node shall update the RIC Subscription TNLA binding with the new TNLA. The E2 Configuration Update procedure also allows the E2 Node to inform the Near-RT RIC that the indicated TNLA(s) will be removed by the E2 Node.

Between one Near-RT RIC and E2 Node pair:

- -	A single pair of stream identifiers shall be reserved over an SCTP association for the sole use of E2AP elementary procedures utilized for E2 Support Function signalling (i.e. defined in O-RAN WG3.TS.E2AP [2] clause 8.3).
- -	At least one pair of stream identifiers over one or several SCTP associations shall be reserved for the sole use of E2AP elementary procedures utilized for RIC Service signalling (i.e. defined in O-RAN WG3.TS.E2AP [2] clause 8.2). However, a few pairs (i.e. more than one) should be reserved.
- -	For any RIC service signalling (i.e. defined in O-RAN WG3.TS.E2AP [2] clause 8.2) of a single RIC Subscription, the E2 Node shall use one SCTP association and one SCTP stream, and the SCTP association/stream should not be changed until after the current SCTP association is failed, or the RIC Subscription TNLA binding update is performed.
Transport network redundancy may be achieved by SCTP multi-homing between two end-points, of which one or both is assigned with multiple IP addresses. SCTP end-points shall support a multi-homed remote SCTP end-point. For SCTP endpoint redundancy an INIT may be sent from a Near-RT RIC or E2 Node, at any time for an already established SCTP association, which shall be handled as defined in IETF RFC 4960 [12] in sub clause 5.2.

The SCTP congestion control may, using an implementation specific mechanism, initiate higher layer protocols to reduce the signalling traffic at the source and prioritize certain messages.

# 7 Security for the E2 interface

## 7.1 General

The security requirements given in this clause only apply to the E2 interface.

## 7.2 Requirements for the E2 interfaces

The requirements given below apply to E2 interface defined in the present document:

- -	E2 interface shall support confidentiality, integrity, replay protection and data origin authentication.

## 7.3 Security mechanism for the E2 interface

In order to protect the traffic on the E2 interface, IPsec ESP implementation shall be supported according to IETF RFC 4303 [20] as profiled by 3GPP TS 33.210 [21]. For IPsec implementation, tunnel mode is mandatory to support while transport mode is optional. The multiple IKE Security Associations (SAs), multiple IPsec SAs and multiple IPsec SAs per IPsec tunnel (e.g. for rekeying) shall be supported.

IKEv2 certificate-based authentication implementation shall be supported according to 3GPP TS 33.310 [22]. The certificates shall be supported according to the profile described by 3GPP TS 33.310 [22]. IKEv2 shall be supported conforming to the IKEv2 profile described in 3GPP TS 33.310 [22].

# 8 Other E2 interface specifications

## 8.1 O-RAN E2 interface: E2 Application Protocol (E2AP) (ORAN-WG3.E2AP)

The technical specification ORAN WG3.E2AP [2] specifies the signalling protocol between the Near-RT RIC and the E2 Node over the E2 interface.

## 8.2 O-RAN E2 interface: E2 Service Model (E2SM) specifications

The technical specification ORAN WG3.E2SM [17] provides the list of the supported RAN Function-specific E2 Service Models supported over the E2 interface and presents a recommended layout for additional E2SM specifications.

## A.1 Deployment use cases

The Near-RT RIC may be connected to range of different E2 Node configurations as described in the list implementation options in Annex A.4 of O-RAN WG1.TS.OAD [18].  Examples include:

- -	Standalone O-CU-CP connected to one or more standalone O-CU-UP and one or more standalone O-DU. Each logical node is considered as an E2 Node that presents an E2 interface to the Near-RT RIC.
- -	Combined O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP connected to one or more standalone O-DU. The combined O-CU-CP/O-CU-UP may present either a common E2 interface or individual E2 interfaces corresponding to the individual O-RAN components
- -	Combined O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP and O-DU. The combined node may present either a common E2 interface or individual E2 interfaces corresponding to the individual O-RAN components
In all cases the different RAN components may initiate either independent E2 connections to the Near-RT RIC for each logical O-RAN component or may present a shared E2 interface and hence present the combined RAN components as a common E2 Node supporting services appropriate to more than one logical O-RAN component.

In all cases each E2 Node shall present a single E2 interface to the Near-RT RIC and shall announce which E2 Services supports for each logical O-RAN component.

Example deployment use case are presented in Figures A.1-1 and A.1-2.


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG3.TS.E2SM-CCC-R004-v06.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG3.TS.E2SM-CCC-R004-v06.00 Technical Specification O-RAN Work Group 3 (WG-3)"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms
Void

## 3.2 Symbols
Void

## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1] and the following apply: Near-RT RIC Near-real-time RAN Intelligent Controller O-CU O-RAN Central Unit O-CU-CP O-RAN Central Unit – Control Plane O-CU-UP O-RAN Central Unit – User Plane O-DU O-RAN Distributed Unit O-RU O-RAN Radio Unit

# 4 General

## 4.1 Procedure Specification Principles
The principle for specifying the procedure logic is to specify the functional behaviour of the terminating node exactly and completely. Any rule that specifies the behaviour of the originating node shall be possible to be verified with information that is visible within the system. The following specification principles have been applied for the procedure text in clause 8:
- The procedure text discriminates between:
1) Functionality which "shall" be executed. The procedure text indicates that the receiving node "shall" perform a certain function Y under a certain condition. If the receiving node supports procedure X but cannot perform functionality Y requested in the REQUEST message of a Class 1 EP, the receiving node shall respond with the message used to report unsuccessful outcome for this procedure, containing an appropriate cause value. 2) Functionality which "shall, if supported" be executed. The procedure text indicates that the receiving node "shall, if supported," perform a certain function Y under a certain condition. If the receiving node supports procedure X, but does not support functionality Y, the receiving node shall proceed with the execution of the EP, possibly informing the requesting node about the not supported functionality.
- Any required inclusion of an optional IE in a response message is explicitly indicated in the procedure text. If the procedure
text does not explicitly indicate that an optional IE shall be included in a response message, the optional IE shall not be included. For requirements on including Criticality Diagnostics IE, see clause 10.

## 4.2 Forwards and Backwards Compatibility
The forwards and backwards compatibility of the protocol is assured by a mechanism where all current and future messages, and IEs or groups of related IEs, include ID and criticality fields that are coded in a standard format that will not be changed in the future. These parts can always be decoded regardless of the standard version.

## 4.3 Specification Notations
For the purposes of the present document, the following notations apply: Service when referring to a Service in the specification the SERVICE NAME is written with upper case characters and in bold followed by the word "service", e.g., REPORT service. Procedure When referring to an elementary procedure in the specification the Procedure Name is written with the first letters in each word in upper case characters followed by the word "procedure", e.g., Handover Preparation procedure. Message When referring to a message in the specification the MESSAGE NAME is written with all letters in upper case characters followed by the word "message", e.g., HANDOVER REQUEST message. IE When referring to an information element (IE) in the specification the Information Element Name is written with the first letters in each word in upper case characters and all letters in Italic font followed by the abbreviation "IE", e.g., E-RAB ID IE. Value of an IE When referring to the value of an information element (IE) in the specification the "Value" is written as it is specified in the specification enclosed by quotation marks, e.g., "Value".

## 4.4 Void

# 5 E2SM Services
As defined in O-RAN.WG3.TS.E2GAP [2], a given RAN Function offers a set of services to be exposed over the E2 (REPORT, INSERT, CONTROL, POLICY and/or QUERY) using O-RAN.WG3.TS.E2AP [3] defined procedures. Each of the E2AP Procedures listed in table 5-1 contains specific E2 Node RAN Function dependent Information Elements (IEs) which shall be defined by a specific E2SM. RAN Function specific E2AP E2AP Information Element Related E2AP Procedures Information Elements reference RIC Event Trigger Definition IE O-RAN.WG3.TS.E2AP [3] clause 9.2.9 RIC Subscription RIC Subscription Modification RIC Action Definition IE O-RAN.WG3.TS.E2AP [3] clause 9.2.12 RIC Subscription RIC Subscription Modification RIC Indication Header IE O-RAN.WG3.TS.E2AP [3] clause 9.2.17 RIC Indication RIC Indication Message IE O-RAN.WG3.TS.E2AP [3] clause 9.2.16 RIC Indication RIC Call Process ID IE O-RAN.WG3.TS.E2AP [3] clause 9.2.18 RIC Indication RIC Control RIC Control Header IE O-RAN.WG3.TS.E2AP [3] clause 9.2.20 RIC Control RIC Control Message IE O-RAN.WG3.TS.E2AP [3] clause 9.2.19 RIC Control RIC Control Outcome IE O-RAN.WG3.TS.E2AP [3] clause 9.2.25 RIC Control RIC Query Header IE O-RAN.WG3.TS.E2AP [3] clause 9.2.36 RIC Query RIC Query Definition IE O-RAN.WG3.TS.E2AP [3] clause 9.2.37 RIC Query RIC Query Outcome IE O-RAN.WG3.TS.E2AP [3] clause 9.2.38 RIC Query RAN Function Definition IE O-RAN.WG3.TS.E2AP [3] clause 9.2.23 E2 Setup RIC Service Update All of these RAN Function specific E2AP IEs are defined in O-RAN.WG3.TS.E2AP [3] as “OCTET STRING”. The purpose of this specification is to define the contents of these fields for the specific RAN function “Cell Configuration and Control”.

# 6 RAN Function Service Model Description

## 6.1 RAN Function Overview
For the purposes of this E2 Service Model, E2SM-CCC, the E2 Node terminating the E2 Interface is assumed to host one or more instances of the RAN Function “Cell Configuration and Control” which performs the following functionalities:
- E2 REPORT services used to expose node level and cell level configuration information
- E2 CONTROL services used to initiate control and/or configuration of node level and cell level parameters
- E2 QUERY services used to request and retrieve node level and cell level configuration information
This E2SM specification provides a set of RAN Function exposure services described in clause 6.2 and has been prepared with the assumption that the same E2SM may be used to describe either a single RAN Function in the E2 Node handling all RAN cell configuration and control related processes or more than one RAN Function in the E2 Node with each instance handling a subset of the cell configuration and control related processes on the E2 Node.

## 6.2 RAN Function exposure services

### 6.2.1 REPORT service
The “Cell Configuration and Control” RAN Function provides selective support of the following REPORT services:
- Node level configuration information in E2 Nodes
- Cell level configuration information in E2 Nodes

### 6.2.2 INSERT service
Void

### 6.2.3 CONTROL service
The “Cell Configuration and Control” RAN Function provides selective support of the following CONTROL services:
- Node level configuration and control in E2 Nodes
- Cell level configuration and control in E2 Nodes

### 6.2.4 POLICY service
Void

### 6.2.5 QUERY service
The “Cell Configuration and Control” RAN Function provides support of the following QUERY services:
- Node level configuration information retrieval from E2 Nodes
- Cell level configuration information retrieval from E2 Nodes

## 6.3 REPORT service description
The E2SM-CCC REPORT service requirements defined in clause 6.2.1 are offered using a set of REPORT Styles. All REPORT styles are implemented using a set of IEs that constitute “Action Definition”, “RIC Indication Header” and “RIC Indication Message” to deliver “Cell Configuration and Control” related REPORT services. Each REPORT service style is associated with a specific “Event Trigger” approach. For each Report style, a single RAN Parameter table is used to specify the required information to be reported. The following REPORT styles are supported:
- Node level configuration information in E2 Nodes
- Cell level configuration information in E2 Nodes

## 6.4 INSERT service description
Void

## 6.5 CONTROL service description
The E2SM-CCC CONTROL service requirements defined in clause 6.2.3 are offered using a set of CONTROL Styles. Each style corresponds to a set of “CONTROL Action”, where each “CONTROL Action” deals with a specific functionality and has a set of associated RAN parameters, provided in a mapping table. All CONTROL Service styles are implemented using a set of IEs constituting a “RIC Control Request Header” and a “RIC Control Request Message” to deliver “Cell Configuration and Control” related CONTROL services. A “CONTROL Action” containing one or more RAN parameters and their associated values can either be sent from the RIC, either asynchronously to the E2 node or as a response to a previous “INSERT Indication” from the E2 node. The following CONTROL styles are supported:
- Node level configuration and control in E2 Nodes
- Cell level configuration and control in E2 Nodes

## 6.6 POLICY service description
Void

## 6.7 QUERY service description
The E2SM-CCC QUERY service requirements defined in clause 6.2.5 are offered using a set of QUERY Styles. All QUERY styles are implemented using a set of IEs for RIC Query Header, RIC Query Definition and RIC Query Outcome. For each Query style, respective RAN Configuration Structures are used to specify the required information to be requested and responded.

# 7 RAN Function Description

## 7.1 RAN Function Definition
The E2AP [3] procedures E2 Setup and RIC Service Update are used to transport the RAN Function Description. For a specific RAN Function declared using E2SM-CCC, the RAN Function Definition IE, defined in clause 9.2.2.1 shall report the following information:
- RAN Function name along with associated information on E2SM definition
- Event trigger styles list along with the corresponding encoding type for each associated E2AP IE.
- RIC REPORT Service styles list along with the corresponding encoding type for each associated E2AP IE.
- RIC INSERT Service styles list along with the corresponding encoding type for each associated E2AP IE.
- RIC CONTROL Service styles list along with the corresponding encoding type for each associated E2AP IE.
- RIC POLICY Service styles list along with the corresponding encoding type for each associated E2AP IE.
- RIC QUERY Service styles list along with the corresponding encoding type for each associated E2AP IE.
For the case where RAN Function Definition IE, defined in clause 9.2.2.1, is present in the E2 SETUP REQUEST message the IE shall provide a complete list of all supported node-level RAN Configuration Structures and associated Attributes, Services including Styles, Actions and Formats along with a complete list of Cells and associated supported cell-level RAN Configuration Structures and associated Attributes, Services including Styles, Actions and Formats for all supported RIC services reflecting the current status of the RAN Function. For the case where RAN Function Definition IE, defined in clause 9.2.2.1, is present in the RIC SERVICE UPDATE message within the E2AP RAN Functions Added List IE, the IE shall provide a complete list of all supported node-level RAN Configuration Structures and associated Attributes, Services including Styles, Actions and Formats along with a complete list of Cells and associated supported cell-level RAN Configuration Structures and associated Attributes, Services including Styles, Actions and Formats for all supported RIC services for the newly added RAN Function with a new RAN Function ID. For the case where RAN Function Definition IE, defined in clause 9.2.2.1, is present in the RIC SERVICE UPDATE message within the E2AP RAN Functions Modified List IE, the IE shall provide a complete list of all supported node-level RAN Configuration Structures and associated Attributes, Services including Styles, Actions and Formats along with a complete list of Cells and associated supported cell-level RAN Configuration Structures and associated Attributes, Services including Styles, Actions and Formats for all supported RIC services including both modified and unchanged information for an existing RAN Function.

## 7.2 RAN Function name
RAN Function Short Name “ORAN-E2SM-CCC”. RAN Function name description “Cell Configuration and Control”. RAN Function Instance, required when and if E2 Node exposes more than one instance of a RAN Function based on this E2SM.

## 7.3 Event trigger styles

### 7.3.1 Event trigger style list
RIC Style Name Supported RIC Service Style Style Description Style Report Insert Policy Type E2 Node 1,2 - - Triggered upon subscription and when Configuration a configuration change within the E2 Change Node occurs. Periodic 1,2 - - Triggered in a specified period of time. The details of the individual Event trigger Styles are provided in subsequent clauses.

### 7.3.2 Event trigger style 1: E2 Node Configuration Change
This Event trigger style is used to detect configuration changes on the subscribed E2 Node. The configuration changes can occur at node-level and/or cell-level. A node-level configuration change event occurs when addition, modification or deletion related to at least one attribute within the RAN Configuration Structures defined in clause 8.3.1 associated with the node occurs. Similarly, a cell-level configuration change event occurs when addition, modification or deletion related to at least one attribute within the RAN Configuration Structures defined in clause 8.3.2 occurs on cells within the E2 Node. The E2 Node can also be configured to detect cell-level configuration changes at a certain cell. The E2 Node can be configured to detect node-level or cell-level changes. The following table provides the configuration changes that are supported for event triggering along with associated RAN Configuration Structures and respective RIC Event Trigger Definition IE Formats. Configuration Structures for event triggering and respective RIC Event Trigger Definition IE Formats E2 Node Associated Supported RIC Event Description Configuration RAN RIC Trigger Change Type Configuration REPORT Definition IE Structures Service Format Style Node-level 8.3.1.1 1 RIC Event Triggered upon Configuration Change Trigger subscription and when a Definition IE node-level configuration Format 1 change occurs. (9.2.1.1.1) Cell-level Configuration 8.3.1.2 2 RIC Event Triggered upon Change Trigger subscription and when a Definition IE cell-level configuration Format 2 change occurs. (9.2.1.1.2)

### 7.3.3 Event trigger style 2: Periodic
This Event trigger style is used to trigger events within the E2 Node in a certain period of time. The following table provides the associated RAN Configuration Structures and respective RIC Event Trigger Definition IE Format. for event triggering and respective RIC Event Trigger Definition IE Format Periodic Type Associated RAN RIC Event Trigger Description Configuration Definition IE Format Structures Periodic 8.3.2 RIC Event Trigger Triggered periodically in a Definition IE Format 3 certain period of time. (9.2.1.1.3)

## 7.4 Supported RIC REPORT Services

### 7.4.1 REPORT Service style list
RIC Style Type Style Name Style Description Node-Level Configuration This style is used to report node-level E2 Node configuration information Cell-Level Configuration This style is used to report cell-level E2 Node configuration information The details of the individual REPORT Service Styles are provided in subsequent clauses.

### 7.4.2 REPORT Service Style 1: Node-Level Configuration

#### 7.4.2.1 REPORT Service Style Description
This REPORT Service style provides node-level E2 Node related configuration information. E2 Node configuration information is sent to Near-RT RIC as a RIC INDICATION message which includes the information within RIC Indication Message IE along with an associated RIC Indication Header IE. Node-level configuration information includes the RAN Configuration Structures defined in clause 8.4.1 and their attributes provided in clause 8.8.1. This REPORT Service style is initiated by Event Trigger style 1: E2 Node Configuration Change or by Event Trigger style 2: Periodic and configured using RIC Action Definition IE.

#### 7.4.2.2 REPORT Service RIC Action Definition IE contents
This REPORT Service style uses the RIC Action Definition IE Format 1 (9.2.1.2.1). The supported RAN Configuration Structures for this style are provided in clause 8.4.1 and respective attributes are provided in clause 8.8.1.

#### 7.4.2.3 REPORT Service RIC Indication Header IE contents
This REPORT Service style uses the RIC Indication Header IE Format 1 (9.2.1.3.1).

#### 7.4.2.4 REPORT Service RIC Indication Message IE contents
The REPORT Service style uses the RIC Indication Message IE Format 1 (9.2.1.4.1). The supported RAN Configuration Structures for this style are provided in clause 8.4.1 and respective attributes are provided in clause 8.8.1.

### 7.4.3 REPORT Service Style 2: Cell-Level Configuration

#### 7.4.3.1 REPORT Service Style Description
This REPORT Service style provides cell related configuration information. Cell configuration information is sent to Near-RT RIC as a RIC INDICATION message which includes the information within RIC Indication Message IE along with an associated RIC Indication Header IE. Cell configuration information includes the RAN Configuration Structures defined in clause 8.4.2 and their attributes provided in clause 8.8.2. This REPORT Service style is initiated by Event Trigger style 1: E2 Node Configuration Change or by Event Trigger style 2: Periodic and configured using RIC Action Definition IE.

#### 7.4.2.2 REPORT Service RIC Action Definition IE contents
This REPORT Service style uses the RIC Action Definition IE Format 2 (9.2.1.2.2). The supported RAN Configuration Structures for this style are provided in clause 8.4.2 and respective attributes are provided in clause 8.8.2.

#### 7.4.2.3 REPORT Service RIC Indication Header IE contents
This REPORT Service style uses the RIC Indication Header IE Format 1 (9.2.1.3.1).

#### 7.4.2.4 REPORT Service RIC Indication Message IE contents
The REPORT Service style uses the RIC Indication Message IE Format 2 (9.2.1.4.2). The supported RAN Configuration Structures for this style are provided in clause 8.4.2 and respective attributes are provided in clause 8.8.2.

## 7.5 Supported RIC INSERT Services
Void

## 7.6 Supported RIC CONTROL Services

### 7.6.1 CONTROL Service Style Types
RIC Style Type Style Name Style Description Node Configuration and Used to perform node-level configuration and control at the E2 Control Node Cell Configuration and Used to perform cell-level configuration and control at the E2 Control Node The details of the individual Control Service Styles are provided in subsequent clauses

### 7.6.2 CONTROL Service Style 1: Node Configuration and Control

#### 7.6.2.1 CONTROL Service Style description
This CONTROL Service style provides a mechanism to modify RAN configuration (based on various triggers, such as the receipt of an A1 policy enforcement or detection of slice SLA violation conditions) at the E2 Node using the RIC Control Header IE and RIC Control Message IE.

#### 7.6.2.2 CONTROL Service RIC Control Header IE contents
This CONTROL style uses RIC Control Header IE Format 1 (9.2.1.6.1).

#### 7.6.2.3 CONTROL Service RIC Control Message IE contents
This CONTROL style uses RIC Control Message IE Format 1 (9.2.1.7.1).

#### 7.6.2.4 CONTROL Service RIC Call Process ID IE contents
Void

#### 7.6.2.5 CONTROL Service RIC Control Outcome IE contents
This CONTROL Service RIC Control Outcome IE contains a transparent container that is used to carry the outcome of processing the incoming RIC Control Request message. This CONTROL style uses RIC Control Outcome IE Format 1 (9.2.1.8.1).

### 7.6.3 CONTROL Service Style 2: Cell Configuration and Control

#### 7.6.3.1 CONTROL Service Style description
This CONTROL Service style provides a mechanism to modify RAN configuration (based on various triggers, such as the receipt of an A1 policy enforcement or detection of slice SLA violation conditions) at the cells of the E2 Node using the RIC Control Header IE and RIC Control Message IE.

#### 7.6.3.2 CONTROL Service RIC Control Header IE contents
This CONTROL style uses RIC Control Header IE Format 1 (9.2.1.6.1).

#### 7.6.3.3 CONTROL Service RIC Control Message IE contents
This CONTROL style uses RIC Control Message IE Format 2 (9.2.1.7.2).

#### 7.6.3.4 CONTROL Service RIC Call Process ID IE contents
Void

#### 7.6.3.5 CONTROL Service RIC Control Outcome IE contents
This CONTROL Service RIC Control Outcome IE contains a transparent container that is used to carry the outcome of processing the incoming RIC Control Request message. This CONTROL style uses RIC Control Outcome IE Format 2 (9.2.1.8.2).

## 7.7 Supported RIC POLICY Services
Void 7.7A Supported RIC QUERY Services 7.7A.1 QUERY Service style list RIC Style Type Style Name Style Description Node-Level Configuration Used to request and get response for node-level configuration Query information Cell-Level Configuration Used to request and get response for cell-level configuration Query information 7.7A.2 QUERY Service Style 1: Node-Level Configuration Query 7.7A.2.1 QUERY Service Style description This QUERY Service style is used to request node level related configuration data related to E2 Node by Near-RT RIC. E2 Node shall use this service style to respond to the requested information from Near-RT RIC. 7.7A.2.2 QUERY Service RIC Query Header IE contents This QUERY Service style uses the E2SM-CCC Query Header Format 1 IE (9.2.1.9.1). 7.7A.2.3 QUERY Service RIC Query Definition IE contents The RIC Query Definition for this service style indicates the information type requested by Near-RT RIC. The QUERY Service style uses the E2SM-CCC Query Definition Format 1 IE (9.2.1.10.1). The supported RAN configuration structures for this format are provided in clause 8.9.1. 7.7A.2.4 QUERY Service RIC Query Outcome IE contents This QUERY Service style uses the E2SM-CCC Query Outcome Format 1 IE (9.2.1.11.1). The mapping of RAN Configuration Structures configured in the RIC Query Definition IE to the reported IEs in the E2SM-CCC Query Outcome Format 1 IE is provided in the semantics description of the IEs. 7.7A.3 QUERY Service Style 2: Cell-Level Configuration Query 7.7A.3.1 QUERY Service Style description This QUERY Service style is used to request node level related configuration data related to E2 Node by Near-RT RIC. E2 Node shall use this service style to respond to the requested information from Near-RT RIC. 7.7A.3.2 QUERY Service RIC Query Header IE contents This QUERY Service style uses the E2SM-CCC Query Header Format 1 IE (9.2.1.9.1). 7.7A.3.3 QUERY Service RIC Query Definition IE contents The RIC Query Definition for this service style indicates the information type requested by Near-RT RIC. The QUERY Service style uses the E2SM-CCC Query Definition Format 2 IE (9.2.1.10.2). The supported RAN configuration structures for this format are provided in clause 8.9.2. 7.7A.3.4 QUERY Service RIC Query Outcome IE contents This QUERY Service style uses the E2SM-CCC Query Outcome Format 2 IE (9.2.1.11.2). The mapping of RAN Configuration Structures configured in the RIC Query Definition IE to the reported IEs in the E2SM-CCC Query Outcome Format 2 IE is provided in the semantics description of the IEs.

## 7.8 Supported RIC Service Styles and E2SM IE Formats
RIC Event Event Trigger Trigger Style Definition Format Style 1 1, 2 Style 2 3 RIC Action Indication Indication Call Control Control Control Service Definition Header Message Process ID Header Message Outcome Style Format Format Format Format Format Format Format REPORT Style 1 1 1 1 Style 2 2 1 2 INSERT CONTROL Style 1 1 1 1 Style 2 1 2 2 POLICY RIC Service Query Query Query Style Header Definition Outcome Format Format Format QUERY Style 1 1 1 1 Style 2 1 2 2

# 8 RAN Configuration Structures

## 8.1 Approach
The RAN Configuration Structures associated with each RIC Service described in clause 7 are listed here in clause 8. RAN Configuration Structures are groupings of RAN configuration attributes, which can either be based on the NRM definitions in 3GPP TS 28.541 [6] where applicable or extended / newly introduced by O-RAN specifications. RAN Configuration Structures and their corresponding set of attributes are used by the E2SM-CCC RIC services. The following clauses introduce E2SM-CCC RAN Configuration Structures and their attributes as well as the necessary information to enable their support in each RIC service. Clause 8.8 provides the definitions for each RAN Configuration Structure and its respective attributes. The attributes of RAN Configuration Structures which are based on 3GPP NRM definitions include respective 3GPP standard definitions of these RAN configuration structure attributes as referenced in the tables below under the “Semantics Description” column. These attributes, which have 3GPP standard definitions, are not freshly defined or redefined in this specification. The attributes, whose corresponding value in the “Is Writable” column in the configuration structure is FALSE, shall not be modified by the Near-RT RIC; however, such attributes shall serve as a reference to other attributes, which are bound to the same configuration structure. For e.g., in the RAN configuration structure O-RRMPolicyRatio (in clauses 8.8.1.4 and 8.8.2.4), the value of the “Is Writable” field for the resourceType attribute is FALSE since the resourceType IE indicates the type of the RRM policy resource, which could be a) PRB DL or PRB UL for the O-NRCellDU defined in clause 8.8.2.2 or the O-GNBDUFunction defined in clause 8.8.1.1 or b) number of RRC connected UEs for the O-NRCellCU defined in clause 8.8.2.1 or the O-GNBCUCPFunction defined in clause 8.8.1.2 or c) the DRB for the O-GNBCUUPFunction defined in clause 8.8.1.3. Therefore, the attribute value for the resourceType IE cannot be modified by the Near-RT RIC, but can be used within the RIC CONTROL Service for other purposes (e.g., serving as a reference to the other attributes; rRMPolicyMaxRatio, rRMPolicyMinRatio, rRMPolicyDedicatedRatio, rRMPolicyMemberList within the structure O-RRMPolicyRatio for any given instance of the RAN configuration structure).

### 8.1.1 RIC Event Trigger Definition
Node-level and cell-level event triggers can be configured periodically or upon a configuration change within the E2 Node based on the RAN Configuration Structures defined in clause 8.3. In the E2 node RAN function “CCC”, there can be one or more instances of these RAN configuration structures, where a local copy of the attributes for each instance shall be maintained for modifying and managing their values. If Near-RT RIC subscribes to periodic events (see event trigger style 2 defined in clause 7.3.3), the RAN function “CCC” in the E2 node shall trigger events in a certain period defined in the RIC Event Trigger Definition IE. On the other hand, if Near-RT RIC subscribes to E2 configuration changes (see event trigger style 1 defined in clause 7.3.2), the RAN function “CCC” in the E2 node shall trigger an event upon subscription and when the specified list of the configuration attributes pertaining to any instance of the RAN configuration structures (listed here in clause 8), provided by the Near-RT RIC in the RIC Event Trigger Definition IE, undergoes a change (e.g. modification in its value). If the list of configuration attributes is not provided for any RAN configuration structure by the Near-RT RIC in the RIC Event Trigger Definition IE, then the RAN function “CCC” in the E2 node shall trigger an event when any attribute in the listed configuration structures in the RIC Event Trigger Definition IE undergoes a change. This change in the value of the configuration attribute can be caused either by an internal operation in the E2 node or due to a management operation carried out by a management function (such as the SMO) over a management interface (such as O1) or a dSON operation, etc. An example use case for configuration change event triggers is when O-RRMPolicyRatio RAN configuration structure is used for managing radio resources for two different slices (e.g., eMBB and URLLC) in the same NR Cell. In this case, there will be two instances of the O-RRMPolicyRatio (in clause 8.8.2.4) created for the same NR Cell, with one instance (e.g., O- RRMPolicyRatio_PRB_1) used for managing PRB resource allocation of the eMBB slice and another instance (e.g., O- RRMPolicyRatio_PRB_2) used for managing the PRB resource allocation of the URLLC slice of the same NR Cell. During subscription, if the Near-RT RIC includes O-RRMPolicyRatio in the RAN Configuration Structure Name IE under the List of RAN Configuration Structures IE corresponding to the NR Cell in the RIC Event Trigger Definition IE (clause 9.2.1.1.2) and includes rRMPolicyMinRatio attribute and rRMPolicyMaxRatio attribute for the Attribute Name IE under the List of Attributes IE in the RIC Event Trigger Definition IE, then the RAN function “CCC” in the E2 node shall trigger the RIC event whenever rRMPolicyMinRatio attribute or rRMPolicyMaxRatio attribute changes in O-RRMPolicyRatio_PRB_1 for the NR cell and/or whenever any of these attributes change in O-RRMPolicyRatio_PRB_2 for the same NR cell. In the E2 node, the RAN function “CCC” shall also trigger an event in case of other configuration changes pertaining to the node or the cells, such as creation of a new instance or deletion of an existing instance of any configuration structure (listed here in clause 8), as specified by the Near-RT RIC in the RIC Event Trigger Definition IE. Examples include triggering an event in the E2 node when a new instance of the O-NRCellCU is created, which happens whenever a new NR cell is added to the E2 node, or triggering an event in the E2 node when a new instance of the O-BWP is created, which happens whenever a new bandwidth part (BWP) is added to the NR cell, given by the Global Cell Id IE (in clause 9.2.1.1.2), in the E2 node. Additional examples include triggering an event in the E2 node when an existing instance of the O- RRMPolicyRatio is deleted, which happens when an existing RRM policy pertaining to the E2 node (related to the RRC connected users for the O-CU-CP E2 node or the DRB policy for the O-CU-UP E2 node) is deleted.

### 8.1.2 RIC Action Definition
When an event is triggered by the RAN function “CCC” within the E2 node pertaining to one or more RAN configuration structures, the RAN function “CCC” in the E2 Node shall execute the actions as defined in RIC Action Definition IE in clause 9.2.1.2. Using E2SM-CCC Action Definition Formats 1 and 2 (clauses 9.2.1.2.1 and 9.2.1.2.2), the Near-RT RIC shall specify which RAN configuration structures and which attributes pertaining to these structures shall have to be reported, when the corresponding event is triggered in the E2 node. The requested RAN configuration structures are provided in the RAN Configuration Structure Name IE listed under the List of Node-level Configuration Structures IE in clause 9.2.1.2.1 or under the List of Cell-level Configuration Structures IE in clause 9.2.1.2.2. The requested attributes for that specific RAN configuration structure are provided in List of Attributes IE. When the Report Type IE is ‘All’, then the E2 node shall generate a report indication action involving every instance of the respective RAN configuration structure whether there has been a configuration change (addition/deletion/modification, as discussed in clause 8.1.1) or not. If the List of Attributes IE is not included in the RIC Action Definition IE, then the E2 node shall report the attribute-value pair for all the attributes defined within the respective RAN configuration structure, pertaining to each instance of the configuration structure; whereas, if the List of Attributes IE is included in the RIC Action Definition IE, then the E2 node shall only report the attribute-value pair for the specific list of attributes within the respective RAN configuration structure, pertaining to each instance of the configuration structure. When the Report Type IE is ‘Change’, then the E2 node shall generate a report indication action involving only those instances of the respective RAN configuration structure that underwent a configuration change among all. Depending on the inclusion of List of Attributes IE, all or specified list of attribute-value pairs shall be present for those changed RAN configuration structure instances. Finally, when Global Cell Id IE is present, then the reporting shall be done only for the specified cell(s). For e.g., An NR Cell has two instances of O-RRMPolicyRatio configuration structure, namely O-RRMPolicyRatio_PRB_1 and O-RRMPolicyRatio_PRB_2, for managing the RRM policy ratio of PRB allocation in the cell for eMBB and URLLC slices, respectively. The RIC Event Trigger Definition IE is defined such that the event must be triggered when the rRMPolicyMinRatio attribute of any instance, O-RRMPolicyRatio_PRB_1 and/or O-RRMPolicyRatio_PRB_2, undergoes a change. The following cases present details of how the E2 node shall generate the report actions for different RIC Action Definition IE contents, for this example. Case 1: In the RIC Action Definition IE, Cell Global ID IE of the NR Cell is specified (clause 9.2.1.2.2), Report Type IE is ‘All’ and List of Attributes IE is not included, and the instance O-RRMPolicyRatio_PRB_1 underwent a configuration change. In this case, the E2 node shall generate a report action including both the instances, O-RRMPolicyRatio_PRB_1 and O- RRMPolicyRatio_PRB_2 (irrespective of whether any of their attributes has changed or not) within the List of Configuration Structures Reported IE and include all attribute-value pairs as defined in clause 8.8.2.4, in respective IEs; For the unchanged O- RRMPolicyRatio instance(s), i.e. O-RRMPolicyRatio_PRB_2, current values for all attributes shall be present in Values of Attributes IE whereas for the modified O-RRMPolicyRatio instance(s), i.e. O-RRMPolicyRatio_PRB_1, in addition to reporting the current values for all attributes in Values of Attributes IE, the old values of all attributes shall be reported in Old Values of Attributes IE. Case 2: In the RIC Action Definition IE, Cell Global ID IE of the NR Cell is specified (clause 9.2.1.2.2), Report Type IE is ‘All’ and List of Attributes IE is mentioned in the RIC Action Definition IE and includes the resourceType, rRMPolicyMemberList, rRMPolicyMinRatio, and the rRMPolicyMaxRatio attribute. In this case, again the E2 node shall generate a report action including both the instances, O-RRMPolicyRatio_PRB_1 and O-RRMPolicyRatio_PRB_2 (irrespective of whether any of their attributes has changed or not) within List of Configuration Structures Reported IE, but shall now include only the resourceType, rRMPolicyMemberList, rRMPolicyMinRatio, rRMPolicyMaxRatio attribute-value pairs in respective IEs since only those attributes are listed to be reported in the List of Attributes IE. For the unchanged O-RRMPolicyRatio instance(s), i.e., O- RRMPolicyRatio_PRB_2, current values for these four attributes shall be present in Values of Attributes IE whereas, for the modified O-RRMPolicyRatio instance(s), i.e., O-RRMPolicyRatio_PRB_1, in addition to reporting the current values for these four attributes in Values of Attributes IE, the old values of these four attributes shall be reported in Old Values of Attributes IE. Case 3: In the RIC Action Definition IE, Cell Global ID IE of the NR Cell is specified (clause 9.2.1.2.2), Report Type IE is ‘Change’ and List of Attributes IE is not included. In this case the E2 node shall generate a report indication action only involving the changed instance of O-RRMPolicyRatio, i.e., O-RRMPolicyRatio_PRB_1, within the List of Configuration Structures Reported IE and include all attribute-value pairs as defined in clause 8.8.2.4 for the instance O-RRMPolicyRatio_PRB_1, reporting the current values for all attributes in Values of Attributes IE and reporting the old values of all attributes for the same instance in Old Values of Attributes IE. Case 4: In the RIC Action Definition IE, Cell Global ID IE of the NR Cell is specified (clause 9.2.1.2.2), Report Type IE is ‘Change’ and List of Attributes IE is mentioned in the RIC Action Definition IE and includes the resourceType, rRMPolicyMemberList, rRMPolicyMinRatio, and the rRMPolicyMaxRatio attribute. In this case again the E2 node shall generate a report indication action only involving the changed instance(s) of O-RRMPolicyRatio, i.e., O- RRMPolicyRatio_PRB_1, within the List of Configuration Structures Reported IE, but shall now include only the resourceType, rRMPolicyMemberList, rRMPolicyMinRatio, rRMPolicyMaxRatio attribute-value pairs in respective IEs since only those attributes are listed to be reported in the List of Attributes IE. The E2 Node shall report current values for these four attributes for the instance O-RRMPolicyRatio_PRB_1 in Values of Attributes IE and shall report the old values of these four attributes for the same instance in Old Values of Attributes IE. The details of the approach for the Report Indication action, Insert Indication action and the Policy action are discussed in clauses 8.1.3, 8.1.4 and 8.1.6, respectively.

### 8.1.3 Report Indication
When the E2 node executes a Report Indication action, it shall report the attribute-value pairs for the relevant list of attributes (as detailed in clause 8.1.2 and clause 9.2.1.2) from the instances of the configuration structures. The Change Type IE provided by the E2 Node in the RIC Indication Message IE (clauses 9.2.1.4.1 and 9.2.1.4.2) corresponds to the type of the event. As discussed in clause 7.3 and clause 8.1.1, the RAN function “CCC” in the E2 node shall generate events by any of the following triggers: modification in the value of the configuration attributes in the instances of the configuration structures (Change Type IE is ‘Modification’), addition of new instances of configuration structures pertaining to the E2 nodes or the cells (Change Type IE is ‘Addition’), deletion of existing instances of configuration structures pertaining to E2 nodes or cells (Change Type IE is ‘Deletion’), upon subscription, and/or periodic timer events (Change Type IE is ‘None’). In case of attribute-value modifications within the E2 Node, then the E2 node shall report the attribute-value pairs for the list of attributes (specified in the RIC Action Definition IE) before the modification as well as after the modification using the Old Values of Attributes IE and the Values of Attributes IE, respectively (Change Type IE is ‘Modification’). These IEs contain the structure of the attribute-value pairs for the relevant list of attributes. Since there can be multiple instances for any RAN configuration structure (as detailed in clause 8.1.1) pertaining to the E2 nodes or cells, the E2 node shall include both the Old Values of Attributes IE as well as the Values of Attributes IE in order to enable the Near-RT RIC to discover the correct instances of the configuration structures, for which the E2 node reports the relevant list of attribute-value pairs. For illustrative purposes, the example O-RRMPolicyRatio use case presented in clause 8.1.1 can be used again where there are instances of the O-RRMPolicyRatio RAN configuration structure, namely O-RRMPolicyRatio_PRB_1 and O- RRMPolicyRatio_PRB_2, that are used for managing PRB resource allocation of the eMBB and URLLC slices in the same NR Cell. When the RIC event trigger is caused due to modification in the values of O-RRMPolicyRatio_PRB_1, if the RIC Action Definition IE includes the Report Type IE whose value is set to ‘All’ and the List of Attributes IE which includes the resourceType, rRMPolicyMemberList, rRMPolicyMinRatio, and rRMPolicyMaxRatio attributes, then the E2 node shall report these four attributes for both O-RRMPolicyRatio_PRB_1 and O-RRMPolicyRatio_PRB_2. For O-RRMPolicyRatio_PRB_1, the E2 node shall report the value of ChangeType IE as ‘Modification’ and report old values for resourceType, rRMPolicyMemberList, rRMPolicyMinRatio, rRMPolicyMaxRatio attributes (before modification) for the eMBB slice served by the NR Cell in the Old Value of Attributes IE and shall report the new values for these attributes in the Value of Attributes IE. However, for O-RRMPolicyRatio_2, the E2 node shall report the value of ChangeType IE as ‘None’ and the current values of the resourceType, rRMPolicyMemberList, rRMPolicyMinRatio, rRMPolicyMaxRatio attributes for O- RRMPolicyRatio_PRB_2, pertaining to the uRLLC slice served by the same cell, shall be reported in the Value of Attributes IE in the E2SM-CCC RIC Indication message IE contents since there has been no modification in O-RRMPolicyRatio_PRB_2. This reporting of attribute-value pairs for the list of attributes in both the Old Value of Attributes IE and the Value of Attributes IE, in the case of modification, enables the Near-RT RIC to discover the correct instance of the RAN configuration structure, when there is more than one instance of the same RAN configuration structure assuming key attributes are configured to be present in Report Indication action which depends on the use case and the RAN configuration structure. In order to guarantee identification of the correct instance within the Near-RT RIC in all cases, during subscription Near-RT RIC should not include List of Attributes IE in RIC Action Definition IE for all attributes to be reported in RIC Indication. As another example, when a new instance of the O-RRMPolicyRatio RAN configuration structure is created (e.g., O- RRMPolicyRatio_DRB_3) due to the creation of a new RRM policy for the resource type DRB, within the E2 node O-CU-UP, and when the RIC Action Definition IE includes the Report Type IE whose value is set to ‘Change’ and the List of Attributes IE, which includes the resourceType, rRMPolicyMemberList, rRMPolicyMinRatio, rRMPolicyMaxRatio attributes, then the E2 node shall report the value of ChangeType IE as ‘Addition’ and shall report the attribute-value pair of all these attributes in the Value of Attributes IE. Since the configuration change is not due to modification in the value of an attribute but due to the creation of a new O-RRMPolicyRatio in the E2 node, the E2 node shall not report the Old Value of Attributes IE. Likewise, if an instance of the O-RRMPolicyRatio RAN configuration structure is deleted, then the E2 node shall report the value of ChangeType IE as ‘Deletion’ and shall only report the attribute-value pair of all these attributes in the Value of Attributes IE pertaining to the deleted O-RRMPolicyRatio instance.

### 8.1.4 Insert Indication
Void

### 8.1.5 Control Action
When the Near-RT RIC executes a control action, it shall provide the attribute-value pairs for the list of attributes that the Near- RT RIC shall control for the instances of the RAN configuration structures. The Near-RT RIC shall specify the RAN configuration structures that it controls using the RAN Configuration Structure Name IE (in RIC Control Message IE, specified in clause 9.2.1.7) under the List of Configuration Structures IE for the E2 node or for the list of cells specified using the List of Cells IE (in clause 9.2.1.7.2). For each RAN configuration structure, the Near-RT RIC shall include the Old Values of Attributes IE and the New Values of Attributes IE. These IEs contain the structure of the attribute-value pairs for the entire list of attributes of the configuration structures that the Near-RT RIC shall control on the E2 nodes. Since there can be multiple instances for any RAN configuration structure (as detailed in clause 8.1.1) pertaining to the E2 nodes or cells that the Near-RT RIC controls, the Near-RT RIC shall include both the Old Values of Attributes IE as well as the New Values of Attributes IE in order to enable the E2 node to determine the correct instances of the RAN configuration structures for which the values of the attributes shall be modified by the RIC. The RAN function “CCC” in the E2 node shall determine the correct instances of the RAN configuration structures using the Old Values of Attributes IE containing the current attribute-value pairs and replace them with the attribute-value pairs in the New Values of Attributes IE, as specified by the Near-RT RIC, for those instances. As an example, similar to the O-RRMPolicyRatio use case presented in clause 8.1.1 where there are 2 instances of the O- RRMPolicyRatio RAN configuration structure, namely O-RRMPolicyRatio_PRB_1 and O-RRMPolicyRatio_PRB_2, the Near- RT RIC can control PRB resource allocation for these eMBB and URLLC slices in the same NR Cell by utilizing the RIC CONTROL Service. In order to do so, the Near-RT RIC shall modify the values of the O-RRMPolicyRatio attributes (e.g., rRMPolicyMinRatio, rRMPolicyMaxRatio, rRMPolicyDedicatedRatio) for O-RRMPolicyRatio_PRB_1 and O- RRMPolicyRatio_PRB_2 for the same NR cell (of type O-NRCellDU). For each O-RRMPolicyRatio instance, the Near-RT RIC shall first include the old values of the respective O-RRMPolicyRatio attributes (resourceType, rRMPolicyMemberList, RMPolicyMinRatio, rRMPolicyMaxRatio, rRMPolicyDedicatedRatio) of the NR cell in the Old Value of Attributes IE. Second, the Near-RT RIC shall include all the unchanged and new values of the respective O-RRMPolicyRatio attributes requested by the Near-RT RIC that the E2 node shall replace with, in the New Value of Attributes IE. When there is more than one instance of the RAN configuration structure (e.g. O-RRMPolicyRatio_PRB_1 and O-RRMPolicyRatio_PRB_2 in this example scenario), the E2 node shall determine the correct instance of the RAN configuration structure from the attribute-value pairs included in the list of attributes in both the Old Value of Attributes IE and the New Value of Attributes IE to be able to modify the correct instance and its respective attribute values.

### 8.1.6 Policy Action
Void

## 8.2 Common RAN Configuration Structures
The configuration structures, referencing the corresponding attributes, that can be commonly used across multiple service styles are listed here.

### 8.2.1 Node-Level RAN Configuration Structures
RAN Configuration RAN Configuration Semantics Description Structure Name Structure Definition O-GNBDUFunction 8.8.1.1 Represents O-GNBDUFunction attributes defined in 8.8.1.1. O-GNBCUCPFunction 8.8.1.2 Represents O-GNBCUCPFunction attributes defined in 8.8.1.2. O-GNBCUUPFunction 8.8.1.3 Represents O-GNBCUUPFunction attributes defined in 8.8.1.3. O-RRMPolicyRatio 8.8.1.4 Represents O-RRMPolicyRatio attributes defined in 8.8.1.4.

### 8.2.2 Cell-Level RAN Configuration Structures
RAN Configuration RAN Semantics Description Structure Name Configuration Structure Definition O-NRCellCU 8.8.2.1 Represents O-NRCellCU attributes defined in 8.8.2.1. O-NRCellDU 8.8.2.2 Represents O-NRCellDU attributes defined in 8.8.2.2. O-BWP 8.8.2.3 Represents O-BWP attributes defined in 8.8.2.3. O-RRMPolicyRatio 8.8.2.4 Represents O-RRMPolicyRatio attributes defined in 8.8.2.4. O-CESManagementFunction 8.8.2.5 Represents O-CESManagementFunction attributes defined in 8.8.2.5. O-NESPolicy 8.8.2.6 Represents O-NESPolicy attributes defined in 8.8.2.6. O-CellDTXDRXConfig 8.8.2.7 Represents O-CellDTXDRXConfig attributes defined in 8.8.2.7 O-RUInfo 8.8.2.8 Represents the O-RUInfo attributes defined in 8.8.2.8 O-PRBBlankingPolicy 8.8.2.9 Represents O-PRBBlankingPolicy attributes defined in 8.8.2.9.

## 8.3 RAN Configuration Structures for Event Trigger

### 8.3.1 RAN Configuration Structures for Event Trigger Style 1

#### 8.3.1.1 RAN Configuration Structures for Node-level Configuration Change
Common node-level RAN Configuration Structures defined in clause 8.2.1 shall be used when defining event triggers.

#### 8.3.1.2 RAN Configuration Structures for Cell-level Configuration Change
Common cell-level RAN Configuration Structures defined in clause 8.2.2 shall be used when defining event triggers.

### 8.3.2 RAN Configuration Structures for Event Trigger Style 2
Common node-level and cell-level RAN Configuration Structures defined in clauses 8.2.1 and 8.2.2 shall be used when defining event triggers.

## 8.4 RAN Configuration Structures for Report Services

### 8.4.1 RAN Configuration Structures for Report Service Style 1
Common node-level RAN Configuration Structures defined in clause 8.2.1 shall be used for REPORT Service Style 1.

### 8.4.2 RAN Configuration Structures for Report Service Style 2
Common cell-level RAN Configuration Structures defined in clause 8.2.2 shall be used for REPORT Service Style 2.

## 8.5 RAN Configuration Structures for Insert services
Void

## 8.6 RAN Configuration Structures for Control services

### 8.6.1 RAN Configuration Structures for Control Service Style 1
Common node-level RAN Configuration Structures defined in clause 8.2.1 shall be used for CONTROL Service Style 1.

### 8.6.2 RAN Configuration Structures for Control Service Style 2
Common cell-level RAN Configuration Structures defined in clause 8.2.2 shall be used for CONTROL Service Style 2.

## 8.7 RAN Configuration Structures for Policy services
Void 8.7A RAN Configuration Structures for Query services 8.7A.1 RAN Configuration Structures for Query Service Style 1 Common node-level RAN Configuration Structures defined in clause 8.2.1 shall be used for QUERY Service Style 1. 8.7A.2 RAN Configuration Structures for Query Service Style 2 Common cell-level RAN Configuration Structures defined in clause 8.2.2 shall be used for QUERY Service Style 2.

## 8.8 Attribute Definitions

### 8.8.1 Attribute Definitions for Node-Level RAN Configuration Structures

#### 8.8.1.1 O-GNBDUFunction
The E2 node O-DU is represented by the O-GNBDUFunction configuration structure. IE/Group Name Supported Is writable IE type and Semantics description Services reference gNBDUId REPORT FALSE INTEGER Please refer to [6] clause (0..236-1) 4.4.1, “gNBDUId” attribute gNBDUName REPORT FALSE STRING Please refer to [6] clause 4.4.1, “gNBDUName” attribute gNBId REPORT FALSE INTEGER Please refer to [6] clause (0..4294967295) 4.4.1, “gNBId” attribute gNBIdLength REPORT FALSE INTEGER Please refer to [6] clause (22..32) 4.4.1, “gNBIdLength” attribute

#### 8.8.1.2 O-GNBCUCPFunction
The E2 node O-CU-CP is represented by the O-GNBCUCPFunction configuration structure. IE/Group Name Supported Is writable IE type and Semantics description Services reference gNBId REPORT, FALSE INTEGER Please refer to [6] clause CONTROL (0..4294967295) 4.4.1, “gNBId” attribute gNBIdLength REPORT, FALSE INTEGER Please refer to [6] clause CONTROL (22..32) 4.4.1, “gNBIdLength” attribute gNBCUName REPORT, FALSE STRING Please refer to [6] clause CONTROL 4.4.1, “gNBCUName” attribute pLMNId REPORT, FALSE 9.3.12 Please refer to [6] clause CONTROL 4.4.1, “GNBCUCPFunction.pLMNId ” attribute x2BlockList REPORT, TRUE STRING Please refer to [6] clause CONTROL 4.4.1, “x2BlockList” attribute x2AllowList REPORT, TRUE STRING Please refer to [6] clause CONTROL 4.4.1, “x2AllowList” attribute xnBlockList REPORT, TRUE STRING Please refer to [6] clause CONTROL 4.4.1, “xnBlockList” attribute xnAllowList REPORT, TRUE STRING Please refer to [6] clause CONTROL 4.4.1, “xnAllowList” attribute x2HOBlockList REPORT, TRUE STRING Please refer to [6] clause CONTROL 4.4.1, “x2HOBlockList” attribute xnHOBlockList REPORT, TRUE STRING Please refer to [6] clause CONTROL 4.4.1, “xnHOBlockList” attribute

#### 8.8.1.3 O-GNBCUUPFunction
The E2 node O-CU-UP is represented by the O-GNBCUUPFunction configuration structure. IE/Group Name Supported Is writable IE type and Semantics description Services reference gNBId REPORT FALSE INTEGER Please refer to [6] clause (0..4294967295) 4.4.1, “gNBId” attribute gNBIdLength REPORT FALSE INTEGER Please refer to [6] clause (22..32) 4.4.1, “gNBIdLength” attribute gNBCUUPId REPORT FALSE INTEGER Please refer to [6] clause (0..236-1) 4.4.1, “gNBCUUPId” attribute pLMNInfoList REPORT FALSE 9.3.15 The PLMNInfoList is a list of PLMNInfo data type. It defines which PLMNs that can be served by the GNBCUUPFunction [6] and which S-NSSAIs can be supported by the GNBCUUPFunction [6] for corresponding PLMN in case of network slicing feature is supported.

#### 8.8.1.4 O-RRMPolicyRatio
IE/Group Name Supported Is writable IE type and Semantics description Services reference resourceType REPORT, FALSE ENUMERATED Please refer to [6] clause CONTROL (PRB UL, PRB 4.4.1, “resourceType” attribute. DL, DRB, RRC) This IE should be included in RIC Services for enabling association with the correct instance of the O- RRMPolicyRatio RAN configuration structure. rRMPolicyMemberList REPORT, TRUE 9.3.17 Please refer to [6] clause CONTROL 4.4.1, “rRMPolicyMemberList” attribute. This IE should be included in RIC Services for enabling association with the correct instance of the O- RRMPolicyRatio RAN configuration structure. rRMPolicyMaxRatio REPORT, TRUE INTEGER Please refer to [6] clause CONTROL (0..100) 4.4.1, “rRMPolicyMaxRatio” attribute rRMPolicyMinRatio REPORT, TRUE INTEGER Please refer to [6] clause CONTROL (0..100) 4.4.1, “rRMPolicyMinRatio” attribute rRMPolicyDedicatedRatio REPORT, TRUE INTEGER Please refer to [6] clause CONTROL (0..100) 4.4.1, “rRMPolicyDedicatedRatio” attribute

### 8.8.2 Attribute Definitions for Cell-Level RAN Configuration Structures

#### 8.8.2.1 O-NRCellCU
IE/Group Name Supported Is writable IE type and Semantics description Services reference cellLocalId REPORT, FALSE INTEGER Please refer to [6] clause CONTROL 4.4.1, “cellLocalId” attribute pLMNInfoList REPORT, FALSE 9.3.15 Please refer to [6] clause CONTROL 4.4.1, “NRCellCU.pLMNInfoList” attribute

#### 8.8.2.2 O-NRCellDU
IE/Group Name Supported Is writable IE type and Semantics description Services reference cellLocalId REPORT FALSE INTEGER Please refer to [6] clause 4.4.1, “cellLocalId” attribute operationalState REPORT FALSE ENUMERATED Please refer to [6] clause (ENABLED, 4.4.1, “operationalState” DISABLED) attribute administrativeState REPORT FALSE ENUMERATED Please refer to [6] clause (LOCKED, 4.4.1, “administrativeState” SHUTTING attribute DOWN, UNLOCKED) cellState REPORT FALSE ENUMERATED Please refer to [6] clause (IDLE, 4.4.1, “cellState” attribute INACTIVE, ACTIVE) pLMNInfoList REPORT FALSE 9.3.15 Please refer to [6] clause 4.4.1, “NRCellDU.pLMNInfoList” attribute nRPCI REPORT FALSE INTEGER Please refer to [6] clause (0..503) 4.4.1, “nRPCI” attribute nRTAC REPORT FALSE INTEGER Please refer to [6] clause (0..16777215) 4.4.1, “nRTAC” attribute arfcnDL REPORT FALSE INTEGER Please refer to [6] clause 4.4.1, “arfcnDL” attribute arfcnUL REPORT FALSE INTEGER Please refer to [6] clause 4.4.1, “arfcnUL” attribute arfcnSUL REPORT FALSE INTEGER Please refer to [6] clause 4.4.1, “arfcnSUL” attribute bSChannelBwDL REPORT FALSE INTEGER Please refer to [6] clause 4.4.1, “bSChannelBwDL” attribute ssbFrequency REPORT FALSE INTEGER Please refer to [6] clause (0..3279165) 4.4.1, “ssbFrequency” attribute ssbPeriodicity REPORT FALSE ENUMERATED Please refer to [6] clause (5, 10, 20, 40, 4.4.1, “ssbPeriodicity” 80, 160) attribute ssbSubCarrierSpacing REPORT FALSE ENUMERATED Please refer to [6] clause (15, 30, 120, 4.4.1, 240) “ssbSubCarrierSpacing” attribute ssbOffset REPORT FALSE INTEGER Please refer to [6] clause (0..159) 4.4.1, “ssbOffset” attribute ssbDuration REPORT FALSE ENUMERATED Please refer to [6] clause (1, 2, 3, 4, 5) 4.4.1, “ssbDuration” attribute bSChannelBwUL REPORT FALSE INTEGER Please refer to [6] clause 4.4.1, “bSChannelBwUL” attribute bSChannelBwSUL REPORT FALSE INTEGER Please refer to [6] clause 4.4.1, “bSChannelBwSUL” attribute bWPList REPORT FALSE 9.3.18 This attribute contains the list of O-BWPs. See clause 8.8.2.3 for O-BWP definition. partitionList REPORT, TRUE 9.3.21 This O-RAN specific CONTROL attribute contains the list of frequency partitions for interference control for RAN Slice SLA Assurance use case.

#### 8.8.2.3 O-BWP
IE/Group Name Presence Is writable IE type and Semantics description reference bwpContext REPORT, TRUE ENUMERATED Please refer to [6] clause CONTROL (DL, UL, SUL) 4.4.1, “bwpContext” attribute isInitialBwp REPORT, TRUE ENUMERATED Please refer to [6] clause CONTROL (INITIAL, 4.4.1, “isInitialBwp” attribute OTHER) subCarrierSpacing REPORT, TRUE ENUMERATED Please refer to [6] clause CONTROL (15, 30, 60, 120) 4.4.1, “subCarrierSpacing” attribute cyclicPrefix REPORT, TRUE ENUMERATED Please refer to [6] clause CONTROL (NORMAL, 4.4.1, “cyclicPrefix” attribute EXTENDED) startRB REPORT, TRUE INTEGER Please refer to [6] clause CONTROL 4.4.1, “startRB” attribute numberOfRBs REPORT, TRUE INTEGER Please refer to [6] clause CONTROL 4.4.1, “numberOfRBs” attribute

#### 8.8.2.4 O-RRMPolicyRatio
Please refer to clause 8.8.1.4 for O-RRMPolicyRatio attribute definitions.

#### 8.8.2.5 O-CESManagementFunction
This IOC embodies the management capabilities for Energy Saving (ES) functions. Its purpose is to facilitate energy-saving for individual cell. IE/Group Name Supported Is writable IE type and Semantics description Services reference cesSwitch REPORT FALSE ENUMERATED Please refer to [6] clause (TRUE, FALSE) 4.4.1, “cesSwitch” attribute. This attribute determines whether the energy-saving function is enabled or disabled for cell. energySavingState REPORT FALSE ENUMERATED Please refer to [6] clause (isNotEnergySa 4.4.1, “energySavingState” ving, attribute. Specifies the status isEnergySaving) regarding the energy-saving in the cell. energySavingControl REPORT, TRUE ENUMERATED Please refer to [6] clause CONTROL (toBeEnergySav 4.4.1, ing, “energySavingControl”. This toBeNotEnergy attribute allows the Near-RT Saving) RIC to initiate energy-saving activation or deactivation.

#### 8.8.2.6 O-NESPolicy
This IOC embodies attribute(s) that are needed to provide the NES policy(s) to O-DU for TRX Control (RF Channel Reconfiguration) and Advanced Sleep Mode optimization, see clause 16.3.4 of [11].
> NOTE: After receiving the TRX or ASM configuration, the E2 node shall try to achieve the configured behaviour.
However, it is up to the E2 node to decide when and whether the configuration can be applied. IE/Group Name Supported Is writable IE type and Semantics description Services reference policyType REPORT, FALSE 9.3.22 Policy type to indicate whether the CONTROL policy is for ASM or TRX Control. antennaMaskName REPORT, TRUE 9.3.23 “antennaMaskName” corresponds CONTROL to the selected "mask-name" in the list, "supported-trx-control-masks”, provided by O-RU, see clause 20.3.1.2 of [10]. antennaMask REPORT, TRUE 9.3.24 Antenna mask contains an octet CONTROL string mask value indicating which antenna element to be switched off/on, see clause 16.2 of [9]. It is used if supported antenna mask list is not reported by the O-RU, which means the O-RU supports any mask value (see 20.3.1.2 of [10]). sleepMode REPORT, TRUE 9.3.25 In case “policyType” is ASM, CONTROL “sleepMode” corresponds to the selected "sleep-mode-type" in the list of the supported sleep modes provided by the O-RU for ASM, see clause 20.4.1 of [10]. In case “policyType” is TRX_CONTROL, “sleepMode” corresponds to the selected "sleep- mode-type" in the list of the supported sleep modes provided by the O-RU for TRX Control, see clause 20.3.1 of [10]. dataDir REPORT, FALSE 9.3.26 Applied data direction, DL or UL, of CONTROL the configuration. symbolMask REPORT, TRUE 9.3.27 Indicates the OFDM symbols in a CONTROL slot for which the sleep mode configuration above (antennaMaskName, antennaMask, sleepMode, dataDir) to be applied. If absent, all symbols are applied slotMask REPORT, TRUE 9.3.28 “slotMask” contains an octet string CONTROL mask value indicating the slot numbers in a frame (repeated sleep pattern every frame) for which the sleep mode configuration (antennaMaskName, antennaMask, sleepMode, dataDir, symbolMask) can be applied except slots for common channels (e.g. paging, RA, SSB, SIB1, SIB2, etc.). If absent, all slots except slots for common channels (e.g. paging, RA, SSB, SIB1, SIB2, etc.) are applied. validDuration REPORT, TRUE 9.3.29 Indicate the time duration in unit of CONTROL 10ms for which the sleep mode configuration above (antennaMaskName, antennaMask, sleepMode, symbolMask, slotMask) to be valid. If absent, the sleep mode configuration is expected to be applicable until cancelled (the policy is removed). esObjective REPORT, TRUE 9.3.30 Indicate the expected energy CONTROL saving target. perfObjectiveList REPORT, TRUE 9.3.36 A list of performance objectives CONTROL where each performance objective indicates the expected QoS performance target to be achieved for a service type in one or more network slice(s) identified by the corresponding 5QI value and optional slice identifier(s), and on the data direction indicated by dataDir. It is configured along with “esObjective” to tune the system between maximum performance and maximum energy saving, e.g. reducing eMBB service throughput in order to save more energy.

#### 8.8.2.7 O-CellDTXDRXConfig
The O-CellDTXDRXConfig IE embodies the cell DTX/DRX configuration of a serving cell, and it is defined as follows.
> NOTE 1: Only one O-CellDTXDRXConfig instance can be present for a cell.
> NOTE 2: If the cell DTX/DRX configuration is activated and if there is any overlap between the configured cell
DTX/DRX active period (active cell transmission/reception) and the sleep duration specified in the O-NES Policy using the symbolMask and slotMask parameters for the ASM policy type, E2 Node shall not implement the O-NES ASM policy during the overlap. If the cell DTX/DRX configuration is activated and there is any overlap between the configured cell DTX/DRX non-active period (inactive cell transmission/reception) and the sleep duration in O-NES ASM policy, E2 Node shall apply the cell DTX/DRX non-active period during the overlapping slots or symbols. In addition, E2 node may apply the sleep duration based on ASM configuration in O-NES policy during the overlapping slots or symbols. IE/Group Name Supported Is writable IE type and Semantics description Services reference onDurationTimer REPORT, TRUE 9.3.31 Refer to 3GPP TS 38.331 CONTROL [13], clause 6.3.2, “cellDTXDRX- onDurationTimer” description. cycleStartOffset REPORT, TRUE 9.3.32 Refer to 3GPP TS 38.331 CONTROL [13], clause 6.3.2, “cellDTXDRX- CycleStartOffset” description. slotOffset REPORT, TRUE INTEGER Indicates the slot-level offset. CONTROL (0..31) Value in multiple of 1/32 ms. Value 1 corresponds to 1/32 ms, value 2 corresponds to 2/32 ms, and so on Refer to 3GPP TS 38.331 [13], clause 6.3.2, “cellDTXDRX- SlotOffset” description. configType REPORT, TRUE ENUMERATED Indicates whether the CONTROL (DTX, DRX, configuration is for cell DTX DTXDRX) only, cell DRX only, or joint cell DTX/DRX configuration. Refer to 3GPP TS 38.331 [13], clause 6.3.2, “cellDTXDRXconfigType” description. activationStatus REPORT, TRUE ENUMERATED Initial activation status of cell CONTROL (ACTIVATED, DTX/DRX. Refer to 3GPP TS DEACTIVATED) 38.331 [13], clause 6.3.2, “cellDTXDRXactivationStatus ” description. l1Activation REPORT, TRUE ENUMERATED Indicates whether the cell CONTROL (ENABLED, enables L1 signaling (DCI DISABLED) 2_9) for dynamic activation/deactivation of cell DTX/DRX configuration. Refer to 3GPP TS 38.331, clause 6.3.2 [13], “cellDTXDRX-L1activation” description.

#### 8.8.2.8 O-RUInfo
IE/Group Name Supported Is writable IE type and Semantics description Services reference oruUserPlaneConfiguration REPORT FALSE 9.3.33 The oruUserPlaneConfiguration is a list of user plane configurations supported by the O-RU from the o-ran-uplane- conf.yang module. oruCapabilities REPORT FALSE 9.3.37 The oruCapabilities contains O- RU capability related information supported by the O-RU from the o-ran-module-cap.yang module.

#### 8.8.2.9 O-PRBBlankingPolicy
This RAN configuration structure embodies attribute(s) that are needed to provide the PRB Blanking configuration and / or policy to O-DU for PRB Blanking optimization.
> NOTE 1: One O-PRBBlankingPolicy instance may be present at a time for UL in a cell. Another O-PRBBlankingPolicy
instance may also be present at a time for DL in a cell.
> NOTE 2: After receiving the PRB blanking configuration and / or policy, the E2 node shall try to achieve the configured
behaviour. However, it is up to the E2 node to decide when and whether the configuration can be applied.
> NOTE 3: The following addresses the relationship between O-PRBBlankingPolicy and O-NES policy. PRB blanking may
be applied to antenna while there is an existing instance of O-NESPolicy with TRX Control for that antenna but the E2 node decides not to deactivate it. PRB blanking is not applicable while ASM in O-NES policy is active.
> NOTE 4: The following addresses the relationship between PRB blanking and cell DTX/DRX configuration. During the
configured cell DTX/DRX active period (active cell transmission/reception), PRB blanking may be applied. During DTX/DRX non-active period (inactive cell transmission/reception), PRB blanking is not applicable. IE/Group Name Supported Is writable IE type and Semantics description Services reference policyCategory REPORT, FALSE 9.3.41 Policy category to indicate whether CONTROL the policy is for prbBlankingConfiguration or prbBlankingObjective linkDir REPORT, FALSE 9.3.42 Indicate PRB Blanking is to apply CONTROL for DL or UL. startTime REPORT, TRUE 9.3.43 Indicate the start time for E2 node CONTROL for PRB Blanking is to be valid. The format of startTime should follow specifications in [5]. endTime REPORT, TRUE 9.3.44 Indicate the end time for E2 nodes CONTROL for PRB Blanking is to be valid. The format of endTime should follow specifications in [5]. If absent, the PRB Blanking is expected to be applicable until cancelled (the policy is removed). prbBlankingConfigurationLi REPORT, TRUE 9.3.45 In case “policyCategory” is st CONTROL prbBlankingConfiguration and this IE is present, PRB blanking configuration is applied. A list of configurations to indicate the two- dimensional (time and frequency) PRB space to be blanked. prbBlankingObj REPORT, TRUE 9.3.46 In case “policyCategory” is CONTROL prbBlankingObjective and this IE is present, PRB blanking objective is applied. It indicates the preferred average number of PRBs to be blanked during the interval between startTime and endTime.

# 9 Elements for E2SM Service Model

## 9.1 General
Void

## 9.2 Message Functional Definition and Content

### 9.2.1 Messages for RIC Functional procedures

#### 9.2.1.1 RIC Event Trigger Definition IE
This information element is part of the RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST message sent by the Near-RT RIC to an E2 Node and is required for event triggers used to initiate REPORT, INSERT and POLICY actions. Direction: NEAR-RT RIC ® E2 Node. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference CHOICE Event Trigger Definition Format >E2SM-CCC Event Trigger M 9.2.1.1.1 Triggered upon subscription and Definition Format 1 when a node-level configuration change occurs. >E2SM-CCC Event Trigger M 9.2.1.1.2 Triggered upon subscription and Definition Format 2 when a cell-level configuration change occurs. >E2SM-CCC Event Trigger M 9.2.1.1.3 Used for periodic event triggering Definition Format 3

##### 9.2.1.1.1 E2SM-CCC Event Trigger Definition Format 1: Node-Level Configuration Change
This event trigger definition format is used to configure E2 Nodes to trigger events when a node-level configuration change occurs. The list of RAN Configuration Structures defined in clause 8.3.1 shall be included. Any changes (addition, modification, deletion) regarding the listed RAN Configuration Structures shall trigger an event within the E2 Node. Optionally specific attributes for a certain RAN Configuration Structure can be configured to trigger an event if specified with Attribute Name IE within List of Attributes for that RAN Configuration Structure. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference List of Node-level 1..<maxnoof Configuration Structures NodeLevelC onfigStructur es> >RAN Configuration M 9.3.7 Specifies the name of the node- Structure Name level RAN configuration structure that the event will be triggered when a configuration change (addition, modification, deletion) occurs. Valid RAN Configuration Structures for this event trigger are defined in 8.3.1. >List of Attributes 0..<maxnoof Optionally specifies the list of AttributesTo attributes within the RAN Report> Configuration Structure that will only cause an event trigger upon change. Absence of this IE indicates that all attributes of the specified RAN Configuration Structure will trigger the event upon change. >>Attribute Name M 9.3.8 Specifies the name of the attribute under the RAN Configuration Structure that will trigger the event upon change. Valid attributes for each node-level RAN Configuration Structure are defined in 8.8.1. Range bound Explanation maxnoofNodeLevelConfigStr Maximum number of E2 Node level configuration structures that can be listed for uctures the event triggering. The value is <256>. maxnoofAttributesToReport Maximum no. of attributes supported by Event Trigger Definition Format 1. The value is 65535.

##### 9.2.1.1.2 E2SM-CCC Event Trigger Definition Format 2: Cell-Level Configuration Change
This event trigger definition format is used to configure E2 Nodes to trigger events when a cell-level configuration change occurs. The list of RAN Configuration Structures defined in clause 8.3.2 shall be included. Any changes (addition, modification, deletion) regarding the listed RAN Configuration Structures shall trigger an event for any cell within the E2 Node. The list of RAN Configuration Structures for event triggering can optionally be configured to be triggered for a specific cell, if indicated by the Global Cell Id IE. In addition, optionally specific attributes for a certain RAN Configuration Structure can be configured to trigger an event if specified with Attribute Name IE within List of Attributes for that RAN Configuration Structure. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference List of Cell-level 1..<maxnoof Configuration Structures Cells> > Cell Global Id O 9.3.6 Specifies the global cell id of the cell the event will be triggered for. Absence of this IE indicates that a configuration change (addition, modification, deletion) in any cell regarding the listed RAN Configuration Structures shall trigger an event. >List of RAN Configuration 1..<maxnoof Structures CellLevelCo nfigStructure s> >>RAN Configuration M 9.3.7 Specifies the name of the cell-level Structure Name RAN configuration structure that the event will be triggered when a configuration change (addition, modification, deletion) occurs. Valid RAN Configuration Structures for this event trigger are defined in 8.3.2. >>List of Attributes 0..<maxnoof Optionally specifies the list of AttributesTo attributes within the RAN Report> Configuration Structure that will only cause an event trigger upon change. Absence of this IE indicates that all attributes of the specified RAN Configuration Structure will trigger the event upon change. >>>Attribute Name M 9.3.8 Specifies the name of the attribute under the RAN Configuration Structure that will trigger the event upon change. Valid attributes for each cell-level RAN Configuration Structure are defined in 8.8.2. Range bound Explanation maxnoofCells Maximum number of cells that can be listed for the event triggering. The value is <1024>. maxnoofCellLevelConfigStruc Maximum number of E2 Node level configuration structures that can be listed for tures the event triggering. The value is <1024>. maxnoofAttributesToReport Maximum no. of attributes supported by Event Trigger Definition Format 2. The value is 65535.

##### 9.2.1.1.3 E2SM-CCC Event Trigger Definition Format 3: Periodic Event Trigger
This event trigger definition format is used to configure E2 Nodes to trigger events in a certain period. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Period M INTEGER Used to indicate the (10..4294967295) event triggering period in unit of 1 millisecond

#### 9.2.1.2 RIC ACTION DEFINITION IE
This information element is part of the RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST message sent by the Near-RT RIC to an E2 Node. In this service model, this information element provides additional information for the nominated Action (Report). Direction: NEAR-RT RIC ® E2 Node. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference RIC Style Type M 9.3.3 CHOICE Action Definition Format >E2SM-CCC Action Definition M 9.2.1.2.1 Used by REPORT Format 1 service to report node- level configuration structures >E2SM-CCC Action Definition M 9.2.1.2.2 Used by REPORT Format 2 service to report cell- level configuration structures

##### 9.2.1.2.1 E2SM-CCC Action Definition Format 1
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference List of Node-level RAN M 1..<maxnoofCo Configuration Structures nfigurationsToR eport> >Report Type M 9.3.9 Indicates whether:
- the values for the
configuration structures listed shall be reported regardless there has been a change or not
- the values for the
configuration structures listed shall be reported only if its value has been changed (modification, addition, deletion) >RAN Configuration Structure M 9.3.7 Specifies the name of the Name node-level RAN configuration structure that shall be reported. Valid RAN Configuration Structures for this action definition are defined in 8.4.1. >List of Attributes 0..<maxnoofAttr ibutesToReport > >>Attribute Name M 9.3.8 Specifies the name of the required attribute. The value of the attribute shall be reported. Valid attributes for this action definition are defined in 8.8.1. Range bound Explanation maxnoofConfigurationsToReport Maximum no. of configurations supported by Action Definition Format 1. The value is 256. maxnoofAttributesToReport Maximum no. of attributes supported by Action Definition Format 1. The value is 65535.

##### 9.2.1.2.2 E2SM-CCC Action Definition Format 2
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference List of Cell Configurations To 1..<maxnoofCell Be Reported sToReport> > Cell Global Id O 9.3.6 Indicates the global cell id of the cell that cell-level configuration structure list applies for. Absence of this IE indicates that listed cell-level configuration structures apply for all cells within the E2 Node. >List of Cell-level RAN 1..<maxnoofCo Configuration Structures nfigurationsToR eport> >>Report Type M 9.3.9 Indicates whether:
- the values for the configuration
structures listed shall be reported regardless there has been a change or not
- the values for the configuration
structures listed shall be reported only if its value has been changed (modification, addition, deletion) >>RAN Configuration Structure M 9.3.7 Specifies the name of the cell- Name level RAN configuration structure that shall be reported. Valid RAN Configuration Structures for this action definition are defined in 8.4.2. >>List of Attributes 0..<maxnoofAttr ibutesToReport > >>>Attribute Name M 9.3.8 Specifies the name of the required attribute. The value of the attribute shall be reported. Valid attributes for this action definition are defined in 8.8.2. Range bound Explanation maxnoofCellsToReport Maximum no. of cells supported by Action Definition Format 2. The value is 1024. maxnoofConfigurationsToReport Maximum no. of configurations supported by Action Definition Format 2. The value is 1024. maxnoofAttributesToReport Maximum no. of attributes supported by Action Definition Format 2. The value is 65535.

#### 9.2.1.3 RIC INDICATION HEADER IE
This information element is part of the RIC INDICATION message sent by the E2 Node to the Near-RT RIC and is required for REPORT action. Direction: E2 Node ® NEAR-RT RIC. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description CHOICE Indication Header Format >E2SM-CCC Indication Header M Format 1

##### 9.2.1.3.1 E2SM-CCC Indication Header Format 1
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Indication Reason M ENUMERATED (Upon Provides the cause Subscription, Upon Change, of the event trigger Periodic) Event Time M 9.3.10 Provides the time of the event trigger.

#### 9.2.1.4 RIC INDICATION MESSAGE IE
This information element is part of the RIC INDICATION message sent by the E2 Node to the Near-RT RIC and is required for REPORT action. Direction: E2 Node ® NEAR-RT RIC. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description CHOICE Indication Message Format >E2SM-CCC Indication M Message Format 1 >E2SM-CCC Indication M Message Format 2

##### 9.2.1.4.1 E2SM-CCC Indication Message Format 1
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference List of Configuration Structures 1..<maxnoof Indicates the configuration Reported Configuration structures that are reported sReported> within the message. >Change Type M ENUMERATED None - no change occurred in (None, reported RAN configuration Modification, structure attributes – e.g., due Addition, to periodic reporting or initial Deletion) subscription. Values of attributes shall be reported through “Values of Attributes”. Modification - a modification of value occurred in at least one attribute of the RAN configuration structure. New values shall be reported through “Values of Attributes” and old attribute values shall be reported through “Old Values of Attributes”. Addition - Notification of addition of a new RAN configuration structure. Values of its attributes shall be reported through “Values of Attributes”. Deletion - Notification of deletion of a RAN configuration structure. Deleted attribute values shall be reported through “Values of Attributes”. >RAN Configuration Structure M 9.3.7 Indicates the RAN Name Configuration Structure name. >Values of Attributes M OCTET STRING Provides the attribute values for the respective RAN Configuration Structure defined in clause 8.4.1. >Old Values of Attributes O OCTET STRING Provides the old values of the attributes for the respective RAN Configuration Structure defined in clause 8.4.1 and shall be included if “Change Type” equals to “Modification”. Range bound Explanation maxnoofConfigurationsReported Maximum no. of configurations supported by Indication Message Format 1. The value is 65535.

##### 9.2.1.4.2 E2SM-CCC Indication Message Format 2
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference List of Cells Reported 1..<maxnoofCell Indicates the cells and sReported> respective configuration structures that are reported within the message. >Cell Global Id M 9.3.6 Indicates the cell the event was triggered for. >List of Configuration Indicates the configuration Structures Reported 1..<maxnoofCon structures that are reported figurationsRepor within the message that ted> belong to the cell. >>Change Type M ENUMERATED None - no change occurred (None, in reported RAN Modification, configuration structure Addition, attributes – e.g., due to Deletion) periodic reporting or initial subscription. Values of attributes shall be reported through “Values of Attributes”. Modification - a modification of value occurred in at least one attribute of the RAN configuration structure. New values shall be reported through “Values of Attributes” and old attribute values shall be reported through “Old Values of Attributes”. Addition - Notification of addition of a new RAN configuration structure. Values of its attributes shall be reported through “Values of Attributes”. Deletion - Notification of deletion of a RAN configuration structure. Deleted attribute values shall be reported through “Values of Attributes”. >>RAN Configuration M 9.3.7 Indicates the RAN Structure Name Configuration Structure name. >>Values of Attributes M OCTET STRING Provides the attribute values for the respective RAN Configuration Structure defined in clause 8.4.2. >>Old Values of Attributes O OCTET STRING Provides the old values of the attributes for the respective RAN Configuration Structure defined in clause 8.4.2 and shall be included if “Change Type” equals to “Modification”. Range bound Explanation maxnoofCellsReported Maximum no. of cells supported by Indication Message Format 2. The value is 65535. maxnoofConfigurationsReported Maximum no. of configurations supported by Indication Message Format 2. The value is 65535.

#### 9.2.1.6 RIC CONTROL HEADER IE
This information element is part of the RIC CONTROL message sent by the Near-RT RIC to an E2 Node and is required for RIC Control Procedure. Direction: Near-RT RIC ® E2 Node. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description CHOICE Control Header Format >E2SM-CCC Control Header M 9.2.1.6.1 Format 1

##### 9.2.1.6.1 E2SM-CCC Control Header Format 1
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description RIC Style Type M 9.3.3 Refer to clause 7.6.1

#### 9.2.1.7 RIC CONTROL MESSAGE IE
This information element is part of the RIC CONTROL message sent by the Near-RT RIC to an E2 Node and is required for RIC Control Procedure. Direction: Near-RT RIC ® E2 Node. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description CHOICE Control Message Format >E2SM-CCC Control Message M 9.2.1.7.1 Format 1 >E2SM-CCC Control Message M 9.2.1.7.2 Format 2

##### 9.2.1.7.1 E2SM-CCC Control Message Format 1
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference List of Configuration Structures 1..<maxnoofCo Indicates the configuration nfigurations> structures that are controlled within the message. >RAN Configuration Structure M 9.3.7 Indicates the RAN Name Configuration Structure name. >Old Values of Attributes M OCTET Provides the old attribute STRING values for the respective RAN Configuration Structure defined in clause 8.6.1. >New Values of Attributes M OCTET Provides the new attribute STRING values for the respective RAN Configuration Structure defined in clause 8.6.1. Range bound Explanation maxnoofConfigurations Maximum no. of configurations supported by Control Message Format 1. The value is 65535.

##### 9.2.1.7.2 E2SM-CCC Control Message Format 2
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference List of Cells 1..<maxnoofCell s> >Cell Global Id M 9.3.6 Indicates the target cell for control. >List of Configuration Structures 1..<maxnoofCo nfigurations> >>RAN Configuration Structure M 9.3.7 Indicates the RAN Name Configuration Structure name. >>Old Values of Attributes M OCTET STRING Provides the old attribute values for the respective RAN Configuration Structure defined in clause 8.6.2. >>New Values of Attributes M OCTET STRING Provides the new attribute values for the respective RAN Configuration Structure defined in clause 8.6.2. Range bound Explanation maxnoofCells Maximum no. of cells supported by Control Message Format 2. The value is 65535. maxnoofConfigurations Maximum no. of configurations supported by Control Message Format 2. The value is 65535.

#### 9.2.1.8 RIC CONTROL OUTCOME IE
This information element is part of the RIC CONTROL ACKOWLEDGEMENT and RIC CONTROL FAILURE messages and is sent by the E2 Node to the Near-RT RIC and is required for RIC Control Procedure. Direction: E2 Node ® Near-RT RIC IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description CHOICE Control Outcome Format >E2SM-CCC Control Outcome M 9.2.1.8.1 Format 1 >E2SM-CCC Control Outcome M 9.2.1.8.2 Format 2

##### 9.2.1.8.1 E2SM-CCC Control Outcome Format 1
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference Received Timestamp O OCTET Time RIC Control Request message STRING received by RAN Function over E2 interface. Carries UTC time encoded as the 64-bit timestamp format as defined in clause 6 of IETF RFC 5905 [5] containing both seconds and fraction parts. RAN Configuration Structures 0..<maxn Indicates the list of configuration Accepted List oofConfig structure changes that are accepted urations> by the E2 Node. >RAN Configuration Structure M 9.3.7 Indicates the RAN Configuration Name Structure name. >Old Values of Attributes M OCTET Provides the old attribute values for STRING the respective RAN Configuration Structure defined in clause 8.6.1. >Current Values of Attributes M OCTET Provides the current attribute values STRING for the respective RAN Configuration Structure defined in clause 8.6.1. >Applied Timestamp O OCTET Time RAN configuration change was STRING applied by the RAN Function. Carries UTC time encoded as the 64-bit timestamp format as defined in clause 6 of IETF RFC 5905 [5] containing both seconds and fraction parts. RAN Configuration Structures 0..<maxn Indicates the list of configuration Failed List oofConfig structure changes that are failed by urations> the E2 Node. >RAN Configuration Structure M 9.3.7 Indicates the RAN Configuration Name Structure name. >Old Values of Attributes M OCTET Provides the old attribute values for STRING the respective RAN Configuration Structure defined in clause 8.6.1. >Requested Values of M OCTET Provides the requested attribute Attributes STRING values for the respective RAN Configuration Structure defined in clause 8.6.1. >Cause M 9.3.11 Provides the cause of the failure Range bound Explanation maxnoofConfigurations Maximum no. of configurations supported by Control Outcome Format 1. The value is 65535.

##### 9.2.1.8.2 E2SM-CCC Control Outcome Format 2
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference Received Timestamp O OCTET Time RIC Control Request message STRING received by RAN Function over E2 interface. Carries UTC time encoded as the 64-bit timestamp format as defined in clause 6 of IETF RFC 5905 [5] containing both seconds and fraction parts. List of Cells 1..<maxn oofCells> >Cell Global Id M 9.3.6 Indicates the target cell for control. >RAN Configuration Structures 0..<maxn Indicates the list of configuration Accepted List oofConfig structure changes that are accepted urations> by the Cell. >>RAN Configuration Structure M 9.3.7 Indicates the RAN Configuration Name Structure name. >>Old Values of Attributes M OCTET Provides the old attribute values for STRING the respective RAN Configuration Structure defined in clause 8.6.2. >>Current Values of Attributes M OCTET Provides the current attribute values STRING for the respective RAN Configuration Structure defined in clause 8.6.2. >>Applied Timestamp O OCTET Time RAN configuration change was STRING applied by the RAN Function. Carries UTC time encoded as the 64-bit timestamp format as defined in clause 6 of IETF RFC 5905 [5] containing both seconds and fraction parts. >RAN Configuration Structures 0..<maxn Indicates the list of configuration Failed List oofConfig structure changes that are failed by urations> the Cell. >>RAN Configuration Structure M 9.3.7 Indicates the RAN Configuration Name Structure name. >>Old Values of Attributes M OCTET Provides the old attribute values for STRING the respective RAN Configuration Structure defined in clause 8.6.2. >>Requested Values of M OCTET Provides the requested attribute Attributes STRING values for the respective RAN Configuration Structure defined in clause 8.6.2. >>Cause M 9.3.11 Provides the cause of the failure Range bound Explanation maxnoofCells Maximum no. of cells supported by Control Outcome Format 2. The value is 65535. maxnoofConfigurations Maximum no. of configurations supported by Control Outcome Format 2. The value is 65535.

#### 9.2.1.9 RIC QUERY HEADER IE
This information element is part of the RIC QUERY REQUEST message sent by the Near-RT RIC to an E2 Node and is required for RIC QUERY Procedure. Direction: Near-RT RIC ® E2 Node. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics reference description CHOICE Query Header Format M >E2SM-CCC Query Header Format 1 9.2.1.9.1

##### 9.2.1.9.1 E2SM-CCC Query Header Format 1
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference RIC Style Type M 9.3.3 Refer to clause 7.7A.1

#### 9.2.1.10 RIC QUERY DEFINITION IE
This information element is part of the RIC QUERY REQUEST message sent by the Near-RT RIC to an E2 Node and is required for RIC Query Procedure. Direction: Near-RT RIC ® E2 Node. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics reference description CHOICE Query Definition Format M >E2SM-CCC Query Definition Format 1 9.2.1.10.1 >E2SM-CCC Query Definition Format 2 9.2.1.10.2

##### 9.2.1.10.1 E2SM-CCC Query Definition Format 1
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference List of Node-level RAN M 1..<maxnoofC Configuration Structures onfigurationsT oReport> >RAN Configuration Structure M 9.3.7 Specifies the name of the Name node-level RAN configuration structure that shall be reported. Valid RAN Configuration Structures for this query definition are defined in 8.9.1 >List of Attributes 0..<maxnoofAt tributesToRep ort> >>Attribute Name M 9.3.8 Specifies the name of the required attribute. The value of the attribute shall be reported. Valid attributes for each node-level RAN Configuration Structure are defined in 8.8.1. Range bound Explanation maxnoofConfigurationsToReport Maximum no. of configurations supported by Query Definition Format 1. The value is 256. maxnoofAttributesToReport Maximum no. of attributes supported by Query Definition Format 1. The value is 65535.

##### 9.2.1.10.2 E2SM-CCC Query Definition Format 2
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference List of Cells To Be Queried 1..<maxnoofC ellsToReport> > Cell Global Id O 9.3.6 Indicates the global cell id of the cell that List of Cell-level Configuration Structures to Be Queried applies for. Absence of this IE indicates that listed cell- level RAN configuration structures apply for all cells within the E2 Node. >List of Cell-level Configuration 1..<maxnoofC This IE is mandatory for Query Structures onfigurationsT Service Style2. oReport> >>RAN Configuration Structure M 9.3.7 Specifies the name of the cell- Name level RAN configuration structure that shall be reported. Valid RAN Configuration Structures for this query definition are defined in 8.9.2. >>List of Attributes 0..<maxnoofAt tributesToRep ort> >>>Attribute Name M 9.3.8 Specifies the name of the required attribute. Valid attributes for each cell- level RAN Configuration Structure are defined in 8.8.2. Valid attributes for this action definition are defined in 8.8.2. Range bound Explanation maxnoofCellsToReport Maximum no. of cells supported by Query Definition Format 2. The value is 1024. maxnoofConfigurationsToReport Maximum no. of configurations supported by Query Definition Format 2. The value is 1024. maxnoofAttributesToReport Maximum no. of attributes supported by Query Definition Format 2. The value is 65535.

#### 9.2.1.11 RIC QUERY OUTCOME IE
This information element is part of the RIC QUERY RESPONSE message sent by the Near-RT RIC to an E2 Node and is required for RIC Query Procedure. Direction: E2 Node ® Near-RT RIC IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics reference description CHOICE Query Outcome Format M >E2SM-CCC Query Outcome Format 1 9.2.1.11.1 >E2SM-CCC Query Outcome Format 2 9.2.1.11.2

##### 9.2.1.11.1 E2SM-CCC Query Outcome Format 1
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference List of Configuration Structures to 1..<maxnoofC Indicates the configuration Be Reported for Query onfigurationsR structures that are reported eported> within the message. >RAN Configuration Structure M 9.3.7 Indicates the RAN Name Configuration Structure name. >Values of Attributes M OCTET Provides the attribute STRING values for the respective RAN Configuration Structure defined in clause 8.9.1 Range bound Explanation maxnoofConfigurationsReported Maximum no. of configurations supported by Query Outcome Format 1. The value is 65535.

##### 9.2.1.11.2 E2SM-CCC Query Outcome Format 2
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference List of Cells to Be Reported for 1..<maxnoofC Indicates the cells and Query ellsReported> respective configuration structures that are reported within the message. >Cell Global Id M 9.3.6 Indicates the cell the event was triggered for. >List of Configuration Structures to Indicates the configuration Be Reported for Query 1..<maxnoofC structures that are reported onfigurationsR within the message that eported> belong to the cell. >>RAN Configuration Structure M 9.3.7 Indicates the RAN Name Configuration Structure name. >>Values of Attributes M OCTET Provides the attribute values STRING for the respective RAN Configuration Structure defined in clause 8.9.2 Range bound Explanation maxnoofCellsReported Maximum no. of cells supported by Query Outcome Format 2. The value is 65535. maxnoofConfigurationsReported Maximum no. of configurations supported by Query Outcome Format 2. The value is 65535.

### 9.2.2 Messages for RIC Global Procedures

#### 9.2.2.1 RAN Function Definition IE
This information element is part of the E2 SETUP REQUEST, and RIC SERVICE UPDATE message sent by the E2 Node to the Near-RT RIC and is used to provide all required information for the Near-RT RIC to determine how a given E2 Node has been configured to support a given RAN Function specific E2SM. Direction: E2 Node ® NEAR-RT RIC. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference RAN Function Name M 9.3.2 List of Supported Node-level RAN 0..<maxno Indicates the list of Configuration Structures ofConfigur Node-level RAN ations> Configuration Structures that are supported by the E2 Node. >RAN Configuration Structure Name M 9.3.7 >List of Supported Attributes 0..<maxno Provides the supported ofAttribute attributes for the s> respective RAN Configuration Structure defined in clause 8.6.1. >>Attribute Name M 9.3.8 >>Supported Services M 9.2.2.2 List of Cells 0..<maxno Provides the list of cells ofCells> and supported RAN Configuration Structures and attributes corresponding to each cell. >Cell Global Id M 9.3.6 >List of Supported Cell-level RAN 0..<maxno Indicates the list of Cell- Configuration Structures ofConfigur level RAN Configuration ations> Structures that are supported by the cell. >>RAN Configuration Structure Name M 9.3.7 >>List of Supported Attributes 0..<maxno Provides the supported ofAttribute attributes for the s> respective RAN Configuration Structure defined in clause 8.6.2. >>>Attribute Name M 9.3.8 >>>Supported Services M 9.2.2.2 Range bound Explanation maxnoofCells Maximum no. of cells supported by RAN Function Definition. The value is 1024. maxnoofConfigurations Maximum no. of RAN Configuration Structures supported by RAN Function Definition. The value is 1024. maxnoofAttributes Maximum no. of attributes supported by RAN Function Definition. The value is 65535.

#### 9.2.2.2 Supported Services
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference Event Trigger O 9.2.2.2.1 Report Service O 9.2.2.2.2 Insert Service O 9.2.2.2.3 Control Service O 9.2.2.2.4 Policy Service O 9.2.2.2.5 Query Service O 9.2.2.2.6

##### 9.2.2.2.1 Event Trigger
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference List of Supported Event Trigger Styles 1..<maxno ofRICstyle s> >Event Trigger Style Type M 9.3.3 >Event Trigger Style Name M 9.3.4 >Event Trigger Format Type M 9.3.5 Range bound Explanation maxnoofRICStyles Maximum no. of styles supported by RAN Function. The value is <63>.

##### 9.2.2.2.2 Report Service
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference List of Supported Report Styles 1.. <maxnoofRI CStyles> >Report Service Style Type M 9.3.3 >Report Service Style Name M 9.3.4 >List of Supported Event Trigger M 1.. Styles <maxnoofEv entTriggerSt yles> >>Event Trigger Style Type M 9.3.3 >Report Service Action Definition M 9.3.5 Format Type >Report Service Indication M 9.3.5 Header Format Type >Report Service Indication M 9.3.5 Message Format Type Range bound Explanation maxnoofRICStyles Maximum no. of styles supported by RAN Function. The value is <63>. maxnoofEventTriggerStyles Maximum no. of styles supported by RAN Function. The value is <63>.

##### 9.2.2.2.3 Insert Service
Void

##### 9.2.2.2.4 Control Service
IE/Group Name Presen Range IE type and Semantics description ce reference List of Supported Control Styles 1.. <maxnoofRICStyle s> >Control Service Style Type M 9.3.3 >Control Service Style Name M 9.3.4 >Control Service Header Format M 9.3.5 Type >Control Service Message M 9.3.5 Format Type >RIC Call Process ID Format O 9.3.5 Type >Control Service Control M 9.3.5 Outcome Format Type Range bound Explanation maxnoofRICStyles Maximum no. of styles supported by RAN Function. The value is <63>.

##### 9.2.2.2.5 Policy Service
Void

##### 9.2.2.2.6 Query Service
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type Semantics description and reference List of Supported Query styles 1.. <maxnoof RICStyles > >Query Service Style Type M 9.3.3 >Query Service Style Name M 9.3.4 >Query Service Header Format Type M 9.3.5 Header type used by Query style >Query Service Definition Format Type M 9.3.5 Query Definition format type used by Query style >Query Service Outcome Format Type M 9.3.5 Query Outcome format type used by Query style Range bound Explanation maxnoofRICstyles Maximum no. of styles supported by RAN Function. The value is <63>.

## 9.3 Information Element definitions

### 9.3.1 General
Void.

### 9.3.2 RAN Function Name
This IE is defined in [4] clause 6.2.2.1.

### 9.3.3 RIC Style Type
This IE is defined in [4] clause 6.2.2.2.

### 9.3.4 RIC Style Name
This IE is defined in [4] clause 6.2.2.3.

### 9.3.5 RIC Format Type
This IE is defined in [4] clause 6.2.2.4.

### 9.3.6 Cell Global ID
This IE is defined in [4] clause 6.2.2.5.

### 9.3.7 RAN Configuration Structure Name
This IE defines the name of a given RAN Configuration Structure which are defined in clause 8. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description RAN Configuration Structure M OCTET STRING Name

### 9.3.8 Attribute Name
This IE defines the name of a given attribute which are defined for each RAN Configuration Structure in clause 8.8. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Attribute Name M OCTET STRING

### 9.3.9 Report Type
This IE defines the reporting type of the RAN Configuration Structures. There are 2 types of reporting:
- All: the RAN Configuration Structure shall be reported regardless there has been a change or not in its value
- Change: the RAN Configuration Structure shall be reported only if its value has been changed (e.g. modified, added,
deleted) IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Report Type M ENUMERATED (All, Change)
> NOTE: When E2 Node sends the report for the event “upon subscription”, it shall report all the values for the listed RAN
configuration structures regardless there has been a change or not.

### 9.3.10 Event Time
This IE defines the time of the event. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Event Time M OCTET STRING Carries UTC time encoded as the 64-bit timestamp format as defined in clause 6 of IETF RFC 5905 [5] containing both seconds and fraction parts. This parameter shall be encoded in hexadecimal format.

### 9.3.11 Cause
This IE defines the cause of the failure for a control action within a RIC Control Outcome IE. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Cause M ENUMERATED (Not supported, Not available, Incompatible state, JSON error, Semantic error, Unspecified) The meaning of the different cause values is presented in the following table. Cause Meaning Not supported Related capability is not supported within E2 Node Not available Resources are not available to perform the required action Incompatible state The received message is not compatible with current E2 Node state (e.g. Old value mismatch) JSON error The received message contains invalid JSON Semantic error The requested action included a semantic error Unspecified None of the above cause values applies 9.3.12 pLMNId This IE indicates the PLMN Identity and is defined in [4] clause 6.2.3.1. 9.3.13 sNSSAI This IE indicates the S-NSSAI and is defined in [4] clause 6.2.3.12. 9.3.14 pLMNInfo This IE is used to represent PLMN ID and S-NSSAI pair. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description pLMNId M 9.3.12 sNSSAI O 9.3.13 This IE shall be present if network slicing feature is supported 9.3.15 pLMNInfoList This IE is used to represent list of pLMNInfo defined in 9.3.14. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description pLMNInfoList 1..<maxnoof PLMNInfo> >pLMNInfo M 9.3.14 Range bound Explanation maxnoofPLMNInfo Maximum no. of PLMNInfo supported for an E2 Node. Value is 65536. 9.3.16 rRMPolicyMember This IE is used to represent RRM Policy member information. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description pLMNId M 9.3.12 sNSSAI O 9.3.13 This IE shall be present if network slicing feature is supported 9.3.17 rRMPolicyMemberList This IE is used to represent list of rRMPolicyMember defined in 9.3.16. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description rRMPolicyMemberList 1..<maxnoof RRMPolicyM ember> >rRMPolicyMember M 9.3.16 Range bound Explanation maxnoofRRMPolicyMember Maximum no. of RRMPolicyMember supported. Value is 65536. 9.3.18 bWPList This IE is used to represent list of O-BWP defined in 8.8.2.3. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description bWPList 1..<maxnoof BWP> >O-BWP M 8.8.2.3 Range bound Explanation maxnoofBWP Maximum no. of O-BWP supported. Value is 256.

### 9.3.19 5QIList
This IE is used to represent list of 5QIs included in an entry of partitionFlowList defined in 9.3.20. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description 5QIList 1..<maxnoof 5QIList> >5QI M INTEGER As for standardized 5QI values, please refer to TS 23.501,

### 5.7.4 “Standardized
5QI to QoS characteristics mapping”, such as 70 for Mission Critical delay sensitive signalling, or 80 for Low Latency eMBB applications Augmented Reality. Range bound Explanation maxnoof5QIList Maximum no. of 5QIList supported for an E2 Node. Value is 128. 9.3.20 partitionFlowList This IE is used to represent list of QoS flows included in an entry of partitionList defined in 9.3.21. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description partitionFlowList 1..<maxnoof PartitionFlow List> >partitionFlow Item M >>sNSSAI M 9.3.13 Pair of pLMNID and sNSSAI is used to uniquely identify an applicable slice. >>pLMNID M 9.3.12 Pair of pLMNID and sNSSAI is used to uniquely identify an applicable slice. >>5QIList O 9.3.19 This optional attribute is prepared for accommodating finer granularity of QoS flows with 5QI. Range bound Explanation maxnoofPartitionFlowList Maximum no. of partitionFlowList supported for an E2 Node. Value is 128. 9.3.21 partitionList This IE is used to represent list of frequency partitions for per-slice interference control among cells as an O-RAN specific attribute added in O-NRCellDU defined in 8.8.2.2. The IE is used for O-DU scheduling algorithm to accommodate the interference control, configured by Near-RT RIC through analysis and control of per-slice interference. The frequency range of a partition is defined with two parameters of pOffsetToPointA and pNumberOfRBs, both expressed in units of RB. For example, assuming 15KHz subcarrier spacing for FR1, one RB is 180KHz and 60 KHz subcarrier spacing for FR2, one RB is 720KHz, according to 3GPP TS 38.211 [7], 4.4.4.1 and 4.4.4.2. Based on the per-slice-per-UE RSRP/CQI measurements collected from E2SM-KPM among multiple cells, Near-RT RIC analyzes possible aggressor cells of each slice in terms of reliability requirement in RAN Slice SLA assurance, and it allocates resources for aggressor cells not to use the same RB resources with the victim cell and informs O-DUs of their recommended resource allocations. The partitionList IE is for the DU’s internal allocation of resources and need not be sent to the UE. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description partitionList 1..<maxnoof PartitionList> >partition Item M >>pOffsetToPointA M INTEGER It defines the frequency offset between point A and the lowest subcarrier of the RB of a frequency partition. The unit is number of RBs as described above. Please refer to [7] clause 4.4.2. >>pNumberOfRBs M INTEGER It defines the length of a frequency partition in contiguous resource block. The unit is number of RBs as described above. Please refer to [7] clause 4.4.2. >>partitionFlowList M 9.3.20 Range bound Explanation maxnoofPartitionList Maximum no. of partitionList supported. Value is 128. 9.3.22 policyType This IE This IE defines the NES policy type in the O-NESPolicy IOC which is defined in clause 8. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description policyType M ENUMERATED (ASM, Please refer to clause 8.8.2.6, TRX_CONTROL) “policyType” attribute. This IE should be included in the Old Values of Attributes IE when modifying existing O- NESPolicy for enabling association with the correct instance of the O-NESPolicy RAN configuration structure. 9.3.23 antennaMaskName This IE defines the antenna mask name in the O-NESPolicy IOC which is defined in clause 8. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description antennaMaskName O STRING Please refer to clause 8.8.2.6, “antennaMaskName” attribute. This IE should be included in the Old Values of Attributes IE when modifying existing O-NESPolicy if it was present in it, for enabling association with the correct instance of the O-NESPolicy RAN configuration structure. 9.3.24 antennaMask This IE defines the antenna mask value in the O-NESPolicy IOC which is defined in clause 8. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description antennaMask O STRING Please refer to clause 8.8.2.6, “antennaMask” attribute. This IE should be included in the Old Values of Attributes IE when modifying existing O-NESPolicy if it was present in it, for enabling association with the correct instance of the O-NESPolicy RAN configuration structure. 9.3.25 sleepMode This IE defines the sleep mode type in the O-NESPolicy IOC which is defined in clause 8. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description sleepMode O ENUMERATED (SLEEP_MODE0, Please refer to clause SLEEP_MODE1, SLEEP_MODE2, 8.8.2.6, “sleepMode” SLEEP_MODE3) attribute. This IE should be included in the Old Values of Attributes IE when modifying existing O-NESPolicy if it was present in it, for enabling association with the correct instance of the O-NESPolicy RAN configuration structure. 9.3.26 dataDir This IE defines the data direction in the O-NESPolicy IOC which is defined in clause 8. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description dataDir M ENUMERATED (DL,UL) Please refer to clause 8.8.2.6, “dataDir” attribute. This IE should be included in the Old Values of Attributes IE when modifying existing O-NESPolicy for enabling association with the correct instance of the O-NESPolicy RAN configuration structure. 9.3.27 symbolMask This IE defines the symbol mask in the O-NESPolicy IOC which is defined in clause 8. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description symbolMask O INTEGER Please refer to clause 8.8.2.6, (0..214-1) “symbolMask” attribute. This IE should be included in the Old Values of Attributes IE when modifying existing O-NESPolicy if it was present in it, for enabling association with the correct instance of the O-NESPolicy RAN configuration structure. 9.3.28 slotMask This IE defines the slot mask in the O-NESPolicy IOC which is defined in clause 8. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description slotMask O STRING Please refer to clause 8.8.2.6, “slotMask” attribute. This IE should be included in the Old Values of Attributes IE when modifying existing O-NESPolicy if it was present in it, for enabling association with the correct instance of the O-NESPolicy RAN configuration structure. 9.3.29 validDuration This IE defines the valid duration in the O-NESPolicy IOC which is defined in clause 8. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description validDuration O INTEGER Please refer to clause 8.8.2.6, “validDuration” attribute. This IE should be included in the Old Values of Attributes IE when modifying existing O-NESPolicy if it was present in it, for enabling association with the correct instance of the O-NESPolicy RAN configuration structure. 9.3.30 esObjective This IE defines the energy saving objective in the O-NESPolicy IOC which is defined in clause 8. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference CHOICE EsObjective 0..1 Please refer to clause 8.8.2.6, “EsObjective” attribute. This IE should be included in the Old Values of Attributes IE when modifying existing O-NESPolicy if it was present in it for enabling association with the correct instance of the O- NESPolicy RAN configuration structure. >targetEc C REAL Target energy consumption, PEE.Energy (3GPP TS 28.552 [12], clause 5.1.1.19.3), of O-RU in kWh. See NOTE. >esPercentage C INTEGER Energy consumption reduction of O-RU in percentage. The (0..100) energy consumption is measured based on method defined in 3GPP TS 28.552 [12], clause 5.1.1.19.3. See NOTE.
> NOTE: Between esPercentage, targetEc, one of the parameters is required, and only one of the parameters can be present.
9.3.31 onDurationTimer This IE defines the cell DTX/DRX duration. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description CHOICE Please refer to clause 8.8.2.7. onDurationTimer >subMilliSeconds M INTEGER (1..31) Indicates the length of cell DTX/DRX active duration in sub- ms. Value in multiples of 1/32 ms. Refer to 3GPP TS 38.331 [13], clause 6.3.2, “cellDTXDRX- onDurationTimer” description. >milliSeconds M ENUMERATED (ms1, Indicates the length of cell ms2, ms3, ms4, ms5, DTX/DRX active duration in ms. ms6, ms8, ms10, ms20, Enum value ms1 corresponds to 1 ms40, ms50, ms60, ms, enum value ms2 corresponds ms80, ms100, ms200, to 2 ms, and so on. Refer to 3GPP ms300, ms400, ms500, TS 38.331 [13], clause 6.3.2, ms600, ms800, ms1000, “cellDTXDRX-onDurationTimer” ms1200, ms1600) description. 9.3.32 cycleStartOffset This IE defines the cell DTX/DRX periodicity and offset. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description cycleStartOffset Please refer to clause 8.8.2.7. >periodicity M ENUMERATED (ms10, Indicates the periodicity of the cell ms20, ms32, ms40, DTX/DRX pattern in ms. Enum ms60, ms64, ms70, value ms10 corresponds to 10 ms, ms80, ms128, ms160, enum value ms20 corresponds to ms256, ms320, ms512, 20 ms, and so on. Refer to 3GPP ms640, ms1024, TS 38.331 [13], clause 6.3.2, ms1280, ms2048, “cellDTXDRX-CycleStartOffset” ms2560, ms5120, description. ms10240) >offset M INTEGER (0.. 10239) Indicates the subframe-level offset of the cell DTX/DRX pattern. Value in multiple of 1 ms. The offset value shall not exceed the value of the periodicity. Refer to 3GPP TS 38.331 [13], clause 6.3.2, “cellDTXDRX- CycleStartOffset” description. 9.3.33 oruUserPlaneConfiguration IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference

# O 9.3.34 The txArrayList is a list of tx-arrays
txArrayList supported by the O-RU

# O 9.3.35 The rxArrayList is a list of rx- rxArrayList
arrays supported by the O-RU 9.3.34 txArrayList IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description txArrayList 1..<maxnoo Corresponds to the list "tx- fTxArrays> arrays” in the o-ran-uplane- conf.yang YANG module provided by the O-RU. See O-RAN WG4.MP [10] clause 15.2.4 >txArrayItem M >>tName M STRING Unique name of the array >>tNumberOfRows M INTEGER (1..65535) Number of rows array elements are shaped into – M. See O-RAN WG4.CUS [9] clause 12.5.3 >>tNumberOfColumns M INTEGER (1..65535) Number of columns array elements are shaped into – N. See O-RAN WG4.CUS [9] clause 12.5.3 >>tNumberOfArrayLayers M INTEGER (1..255) Number of array layers array elements are shaped into – Q. See O-RAN WG4.CUS [9] clause 12.5.3 >>tHorizontalSpacing O NUMBER Average distance in meters between centers of nearby AE in horizontal direction (in array coordinates system). See O-RAN WG4.CUS [9] clause 12.5.3. Represented as decimal 64 with 5-digits fraction. >>tVerticalSpacing O NUMBER Average distance in meters between centers of nearby AE in vertical direction (in array coordinates system). See O-RAN WG4.CUS [9] clause 12.5.3. Represented as decimal 64 with 5-digits fraction. >>tNormalVectorDirection O >>>tAzimuthAngle O NUMBER Azimuth angle - j (phi) - in degrees, counter-clockwise rotation around z-axis. Value 'zero' points to broad-side, value '90' points to y-axis. See O-RAN WG4.CUS [9] clause 12.5.2. Represented as decimal 64 with 4-digits fraction. >>>tZenithAngle O NUMBER Zenith angle - q (theta) - in degrees, counter-clockwise rotation around y-axis. Value 'zero' points to zenith, value '90' points to horizon. See O- RAN WG4.CUS [9] clause 12.5.2. Represented as decimal 64 with 4-digits fraction. >>tLeftmostBottomArrayEl O Position of centre of the ementPosition leftmost, bottom element of array in O-RU coordinate system. See O-RAN WG4.CUS [9] clause 12.5.3 >>>tXAxis O NUMBER X dimension in meters of position of leftmost, bottom array element. Represented as decimal 64 with 4-digits fraction. >>>tYAxis O NUMBER Y dimension in meters of position of leftmost, bottom array element. Represented as decimal 64 with 4-digits fraction. >>>tZAxis O NUMBER Z dimension in meters of position of leftmost, bottom array element. Represented as decimal 64 with 4-digits fraction. >>tPolarizationList M 1..<maxnoo See O-RAN WG4.CUS [9] fTxPolarizat clause 12.5.3 ions> >>>tPolarizationItem M >>>>tPolarizationIndex M INTEGER (0..255) Index (p) identifying the polarization out of the total P polarizations >>>>tPolarizationType M ENUMERATED Type of polarization (MINUS_45, ZERO, supported by the array PLUS_45, PLUS_90} >>tBandNumber M INTEGER (1..1024) Frequency band of the antenna array >>tMaxGain M NUMBER Max gain in dB of RF path linked with array element (minimum over elements of array) or array layers. Represented as decimal 64 with 4-digits fraction. >>tMinGain O NUMBER Min gain in dB of RF path linked with array element (maximum over elements of array) or array layers. Represented as decimal 64 with 4-digits fraction. >>tIndependentPowerBudg M BOOLEAN If TRUE then every element et of array has its own power budget independent from power budgets of other elements. If FALSE then all elements of array that are at same row and column and have same polarization share power budget Range bound Explanation maxnoofTxArrays Maximum no. of Tx arrays supported. Value is 256. maxnoofTxPolarizations Maximum no. of Tx polarizations supported. Value is 2. 9.3.35 rxArrayList IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description rxArrayList 1..<maxnoo Corresponds to the list "rx- fRxArrays> arrays” in the o-ran-uplane- conf.yang YANG module provided by the O-RU. See O-RAN WG4.MP [10] clause 15.2.4 >rxArrayItem M >>rName M STRING Unique name of the array >>rNumberOfRows M INTEGER (1..65535) Number of rows array elements are shaped into – M. See O-RAN WG4.CUS [9] clause 12.5.3 >>rNumberOfColumns M INTEGER (1..65535) Number of columns array elements are shaped into – N. See O-RAN WG4.CUS [9] clause 12.5.3 >>rNumberOfArrayLayers M INTEGER (1..255) Number of array layers array elements are shaped into - Q. See O-RAN WG4.CUS [9] clause 12.5.3 >>rHorizontalSpacing O NUMBER Average distance in meters between centers of nearby AE in horizontal direction (in array coordinates system) . See O-RAN WG4.CUS [9] clause 12.5.3. Represented as decimal 64 with 5-digits fraction. >>rVerticalSpacing O NUMBER Average distance in meters between centers of nearby AE in vertical direction (in array coordinates system) . See O-RAN WG4.CUS [9] clause 12.5.3. Represented as decimal 64 with 5-digits fraction. >>rNormalVectorDirection O >>>rAzimuthAngle O NUMBER Azimuth angle - j (phi) - in degrees, counter-clockwise rotation around z-axis. Value 'zero' points to broad-side, value '90' points to y-axis. See O-RAN WG4.CUS [9] clause 12.5.2. Represented as decimal 64 with 4-digits fraction. >>>rZenithAngle O NUMBER Zenith angle - q (theta) - in degrees, counter-clockwise rotation around y-axis. Value 'zero' points to zenith, value '90' points to horizon. See O- RAN WG4.CUS [9] clause 12.5.2. Represented as decimal 64 with 4-digits fraction. >>rLeftmostBottomArrayEl O Position of centre of the ementPosition leftmost, bottom element of array in O-RU coordinate system. See O-RAN WG4.CUS [9] clause 12.5.3 >>>rXAxis O NUMBER X dimension in meters of position of leftmost, bottom array element. Represented as decimal 64 with 4-digits fraction. >>>rYAxis O NUMBER Y dimension in meters of position of leftmost, bottom array element. Represented as decimal 64 with 4-digits fraction. >>>rZAxis O NUMBER Z dimension in meters of position of leftmost, bottom array element. Represented as decimal 64 with 4-digits fraction. >>rPolarizationList M 1..<maxnoo fRxPolariza tions> >>>rPolarizationItem M >>>>rPolarizationIndex M INTEGER (0..255) Index (p) identifying the polarization out of the total P polarizations >>>>rPolarizationType M ENUMARATED Type of polarization (MINUS_45, ZERO, supported by the array PLUS_45, PLUS_90} >>rBandNumber M INTEGER (1..1024) Frequency band of the antenna array >>rGainCorrectionRange M >>>rMax M NUMBER Maximum allowed value in dB. Represented as decimal 64 with 4-digits fraction. >>>rMin M NUMBER Minimum allowed value in dB. Represented as decimal 64 with 4-digits fraction. Range bound Explanation maxnoofRxArrays Maximum no. of Rx arrays supported. Value is 256. maxnoofRxPolarizations Maximum no. of Rx polarizations supported. Value is 2. 9.3.36 perfObjectiveList This IE defines the list of performance objectives in O-NESPolicy which is defined in clause 8. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description perfObjectiveList 1..<maxnoof This IE should be included in the Old Objectives> Values of Attributes IE when modifying existing O-NESPolicy if it was present in it for enabling association with the correct instance of the O-NESPolicy RAN configuration structure >perfObjective M >> pLMNInfoList O 9.3.15 A list of pair of pLMNID and sNSSAI which are used to uniquely identify one or more applicable slice(s). If absent, the configuration applies to all slice(s). >> fiveQIValue M INTEGER Identify the corresponding service type in (0..255) standardized 5QI values for which the performance objective to be configured. See 3GPP TS 23.501, clause 5.7.4 and 3GPP TS 28.541, clause 5.4 >> maxNgbrFlowBr O STRING Maximum aggregated bit rate for all the Non-GBR flows having the same fiveQIValue to limit the total throughput of a certain Non-GBR service type in a cell in order to create more sleep opportunities to save energy. Note: this is different from the Maximum Flow Bit Rate for GBR flows defined in clause 5.7.2.5 of 3GPP TS 23.501. It is formatted as follows: Pattern: '^\d+(\.\d+)? (bps|Kbps|Mbps|Gbps|Tbps)$', see TS 29.512. Examples: "125 Mbps", "0.125 Gbps", "125000 Kbps". AllowedValues: N/A. >>flowBrAvgWindow O INTEGER Indicate the averaging window (in unit of (0..4095) ms) of a 5QI representing the duration over which the maxNgbrFlowBr shall be calculated. >>maxPd O INTEGER It indicates an upper bound of packet delay (0..1023) allowed between O-DU F1U end point and UE (in unit of 0.5ms) for a service type identified by the 5QI. The value shall be smaller than the E2E Packet Delay Budget (including delay in UPF) configured in the QoS characteristics (see 3GPP TS 23.501), subtracting CN packet delay and packet delay experienced in O-CU-UP and F1U interface. O-DU can try to delay the traffic scheduling up to the upper bound, to concentrate the transmission in fewer number of slots, leaving transmission gaps to save energy through ASM (switching off O-RU RF components during the gaps). >>targetPd O INTEGER It indicates a target packet delay in (0..1023) average between O-DU F1U end point and UE (in unit of 0.5ms) for a 5QI. The value shall be smaller than the E2E Packet Delay Budget configured in the QoS characteristics and smaller than maxPd if configured. O-DU can try to delay the traffic scheduling using the target delay, to concentrate the transmission in fewer number of slots, leaving transmission gaps to save energy through ASM (switching off O-RU RF components during the gaps). Range bound Explanation maxnoofObjectives Maximum no. of performance objectives supported. Value is 128. 9.3.37 oruCapabilities IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference energySavingCapabilityCommonInfo O 9.3.38 O-RU capabilities common to both TRX Control and Advanced Sleep Mode. asmCapabilityInfo O 9.3.39 O-RU ASM capability info trxControlCapabilityInfo O 9.3.40 O-RU TRX Control capability info 9.3.38 energySavingCapabilityCommonInfo This IE is used to represent O-RU capability information common to both ASM and TRX Control. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference ST8-ready-message-supported M BOOL The capability of the cell to support the "ready" message via clause Type 8 command. Refer to [10], clause 20.4.1 sleep-duration-extension-supported M BOOL The capability of the cell to support the extension of a defined sleep interval. Refer to [10], clause 20.4.1 emergency-wake-up-command- M BOOL The capability of the cell to support supported emergency wake-up procedure. Refer to [10], clause 20.4.1 9.3.39 asmCapabilityInfo This IE is used to represent O-RU ASM capability information. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference sleepModes 1..<ma A list of sleep modes supported by the xnoofM O-RU which are reported with their odes> corresponding wakeupDuration values. >sleepMode M >>sleepModeType M ENUMERATED This value indicates the sleep modes (SLEEP_MODE0, supported by the O-RU for a particular SLEEP_MODE1, [tr]x-array. SLEEP_MODE2, SLEEP_MODE3) Refer to [10], clause 20.4.1 >>wakeupDuration M INTEGER This value indicates the reported wake- (0…232-1) up time (in microseconds) for a particular sleep mode for a particular [tr]x-array. Refer to [10], clause 20.4.1 >>wakeupDurationGuranteed M BOOL The capability of the O-RU to guarantee full wake-up operation within the time reported in wakeupDuration. Refer to [10], clause 20.4.1 definedDurationSleepSupported M BOOL The capability of the O-RU to support the defined sleep functionality. Refer to [10], clause 20.4.1 undefinedDurationSleepSupported M BOOL The capability of the O-RU to support the un-defined sleep functionality. Refer to [10], clause 20.4.1 Range bound Explanation maxnoofModes Maximum no. of sleep modes, supported value is 4. 9.3.40 trxControlCapabilityInfo This IE is used to represent O-RU TRX control capability information. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference supportedTrxControlMasks 1..<ma A list of TRX control configurations that xnoofM are supported by the O-RU which are asks> reported with their corresponding maskName and antennaMask values. The absence of the list supported-trx- control-masks indicates that any combination of antenna mask is supported by the O-RU for a particular [tr]x-array. Refer to [10], clause 20.3.1 >supportedTrxControlMask M >> maskName M STRING Name of the supported antenna mask Refer to [10], clause 20.3.1 >> antennaMask M INTEGER Supported antenna mask value. (0..264-1) Refer to [10], clause 20.3.1 sleepModes 1..<ma A list of sleep modes supported by the xnoofM O-RU which are reported with their odes> corresponding wakeup duration values. >sleepMode M >>sleepModeType M ENUMERATED This value indicates the sleep modes (SLEEP_MODE0, supported by the O-RU for a particular SLEEP_MODE1, [tr]x-array. SLEEP_MODE2, SLEEP_MODE3) Refer to [10], clause 20.3.1. >>wakeupDuration M INTEGER This value indicates the reported wake- (0…232-1) up time (in microseconds) for each individual sleep mode for the TRX(s) corresponding to a particular [tr]x-array. Refer to [10], clause 20.3.1. >>wakeupDurationGuranteed M BOOL The capability of the O-RU to guarantee the complete wake-up operation or to become active within the duration reported in wakeupDuration. Refer to [10], clause 20.3.1. definedDurationSleepSupported M BOOL The capability of the O-RU to support the defined sleep functionality. Refer to [10], clause 20.3.1. undefinedDurationSleepSupported M BOOL The capability of the O-RU to support the un-defined sleep functionality. Refer to [10], clause 20.3.1. Range bound Explanation maxnoofModes Maximum no. of sleep modes, supported value is 4. maxnoofMasks Maximum no. of antenna masks, supported value is 128. 9.3.41 policyCategory This IE defines the PRB blanking policy type in the O-PRBBlankingPolicy RAN configuration structure which is defined in clause 8. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description policyCategory M ENUMERATED Please refer to Clause 8.8.2.9, (prbBlankingConfiguratio “policyCategory” attribute. n, prbBlankingObjective) This IE should be included in the Old Values of Attributes IE when modifying existing O- PRBBlankingPolicy for enabling association with the correct instance of the O- PRBBlankingPolicy RAN configuration structure. 9.3.42 linkDir This IE defines the link direction in the O-PRBBlankingPolicy RAN configuration structure which is defined in clause 8. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description linkDir M ENUMERATED (DL,UL) Please refer to clause 8.8.2.9, “linkDir” attribute. This IE should be included in the Old Values of Attributes IE when modifying existing O- PRBBlankingPolicy for enabling association with the correct instance of the O-PRBBlankingPolicy RAN configuration structure. 9.3.43 startTime This IE defines the start time in the O-PRBBlankingPolicy RAN configuration structure which is defined in clause 8. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description startTime M OCTET STRING Please refer to Clause 8.8.2.9, “startTime” attribute. 9.3.44 endTime This IE defines the end time in the O-PRBBlankingPolicy RAN configuration structure which is defined in clause 8. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description endTime M OCTET STRING Please refer to Clause 8.8.2.9, “endTime” attribute. 9.3.45 prbBlankingConfigurationList This IE is applicable when policyCategory in clause 8.8.2.9 O-PRBBlankingPolicy is prbBlankingConfiguration. This IE defines PRB blanking configurations for the two-dimensional (time and frequency) PRB space to be blanked. PRB blanking configurations include bwpIndex, frameNumber, slotNumber and prbIndex. By utilizing startTime and frameNumber, E2 nodes can identify a unique system frame number to apply PRB blanking configurations. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description prbBlankingConfigu 1..<maxn Please refer to Clause 8.8.2.9. rationList oofprbBla nkingC> >prbBlankingConfig M Item >>bwpIndex O INTEGER BWP index to apply PRB blanking configuration. The bwpIndex is defined as BWP number in clause 4.4.4.4 in [7]. >>frameNumber O STRING Frame number to apply PRB blanking configuration. The framenNumber is defined as system frame number in 3GPP. >>slotNumber O STRING slotNumber is to define PRB blanking to be applied across time slots in a frame. >>prbIndex O STRING PRB index to be blanked in the frequency domain within a BWP as well as within a time slot in a frame. The prbIndex is defined as PRB number in clause 4.4.4.4 in [7]. Range bound Explanation maxnoofprbBlankingC Maximum no. of PRB blanking configurations supported. Value is 128. 9.3.46 prbBlankingObj This IE is applicable when policyCategory in clause 8.8.2.9 O-PRBBlankingPolicy is prbBlankingObjective. This IE defines the PRB blanking objective for the preferred average number of PRBs to be blanked. IE/Group Name Presence Rang IE type and reference Semantics description e prbBlankingObj O INTEGER Please refer to Clause 8.8.2.9, “prbBlankingObj” attribute.

## 9.4 JSON Schema

### 9.4.1 General
E2SM-CCC JSON Schema definition conforms to JSON Draft 07 and Draft 2019-09. Clause 9.4.2 contains the JSON Schema definitions of the E2SM information elements and the RAN Configuration Structures to be carried within the E2AP [3] protocol messages as an OCTET STRING with JSON encoding. If an E2SM information element carried as an OCTET STRING in an E2AP [3] message that is not constructed as defined in this specification is received, this shall be considered as an encoding error and if applicable, the respective Cause IE shall be included in the response message.

### 9.4.2 JSON Schema Definitions
{ "openapi": "3.0.1", "info": { "title": "E2SM-CCC", "version": "6.0.0", "description": "OAS 3.0.1 specification compatible schema for O-RAN WG3 E2SM-CCC" }, "paths": {}, "components": { "schemas": { "GnbId": { "type": "integer", "minimum": 0, "maximum": 4294967295 }, "GnbIdLength": { "type": "integer", "minimum": 22, "maximum": 32 }, "GnbName": { "type": "string", "maxLength": 150 }, "GnbDuId": { "type": "number", "minimum": 0, "maximum": 68719476735 }, "GnbCuUpId": { "type": "number", "minimum": 0, "maximum": 68719476735 }, "Sst": { "type": "integer", "maximum": 255 }, "Snssai": { "type": "object", "properties": { "sst": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/Sst" }, "sd": { "type": "string" } } }, "SnssaiList": { "type": "array", "items": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/Snssai" } }, "Mcc": { "type": "string", "pattern": "[0-9]{3}" }, "Mnc": { "type": "string", "pattern": "[0-9]{3}|[0-9]{2}" }, "PlmnId": { "type": "object", "properties": { "mcc": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/Mcc" }, "mnc": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/Mnc" } } }, "PlmnIdList": { "type": "array", "items": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/PlmnId" } }, "PlmnInfo": { "type": "object", "properties": { "plmnId": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/PlmnId" }, "snssai": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/Snssai" } } }, "PlmnInfoList": { "type": "array", "items": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/PlmnInfo" } }, "GGnbId": { "type": "string", "pattern": "^[0-9]{3}[0-9]{2,3}-(22|23|24|25|26|27|28|29|30|31|32)-[0-9]{1,10}" }, "GEnbId": { "type": "string", "pattern": "^[0-9]{3}[0-9]{2,3}-(18|20|21|22)-[0-9]{1,7}" }, "GGnbIdList": { "type": "array", "items": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/GGnbId" } }, "GEnbIdList": { "type": "array", "items": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/GEnbId" } }, "NrPci": { "type": "integer", "minimum": 0, "maximum": 503 }, "NrTac": { "type": "integer", "minimum": 0, "maximum": 16777215 }, "OperationalState": { "type": "string", "enum": [ "ENABLED", "DISABLED" ] }, "AdministrativeState": { "type": "string", "enum": [ "LOCKED", "SHUTTINGDOWN", "UNLOCKED" ] }, "CellState": { "type": "string", "enum": [ "IDLE", "INACTIVE", "ACTIVE" ] }, "CyclicPrefix": { "type": "string", "enum": [ "15", "30", "60", "120" ] }, "BwpContext": { "type": "string", "enum": [ "DL", "UL", "SUL" ] }, "IsInitialBwp": { "type": "string", "enum": [ "INITIAL", "OTHER", "SUL" ] }, "SubCarrierSpacing": { "type": "integer", "enum": [ 15, 30, 60, ] }, "SsbPeriodicity": { "type": "integer", "enum": [ 5, 10, 20, 40, 80, ] }, "SsbDuration": { "type": "integer", "enum": [ 1, 2, 3, 4, ] }, "SsbSubCarrierSpacing": { "type": "integer", "enum": [ 15, 30, 120, ] }, "ResourceType": { "type": "string", "enum": [ "PRB_DL", "PRB_UL", "DRB", "RRC" ] }, "RrmPolicyMember": { "type": "object", "properties": { "plmnId": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/PlmnId" }, "snssai": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/Snssai" } } }, "RrmPolicyMemberList": { "type": "array", "items": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/RrmPolicyMember" } }, "5QiList": { "type": "array", "items": {"type": "integer"} }, "PartitionFlowList": { "type": "array", "items": { "type": "object", "properties": { "snssai": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/Snssai" }, "plmnId": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/PlmnId" }, "5qiList": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/5QiList" } } } }, "PartitionList": { "type": "array", "items": { "type": "object", "properties": { "pOffsetToPointA": {"type": "integer"}, "pNumberOfRBs": {"type": "integer"}, "partitionFlowList": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/PartitionFlowList" } } } }, "EsObjective": { "oneOf": [ { "type": "object", "properties": { "targetEc": { "type": "number" } } }, { "type": "object", "properties": { "esPercentage": { "type": "integer", "minimum": 0, "maximum": 100 } } } ] }, "PerfObjective": { "type": "object", "properties": { "plmnInfoList": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/PlmnInfoList"}, "fiveQIValue": {"type": "integer", "minimum": 0, "maximum": 255}, "maxNgbrFlowBr": {"type": "string"}, "flowBrAvgWindow": {"type": "integer", "minimum": 0, "maximum": 4095}, "maxPd": {"type": "integer" , "minimum": 0, "maximum": 1023}, "targetPd": {"type": "integer", "minimum": 0, "maximum": 1023} }, "required": ["plmnInfoList", "fiveQIValue"] }, "PerfObjectiveList": { "type": "array", "items": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/PerfObjective" } }, "PrbBlankingConfigItem": { "type": "object", "properties": { "bwpIndex": {"type": "integer", "minimum": 0, "maximum": 3}, "frameNumber": {"type": "string"}, "slotNumber": {"type": "string"}, "prbIndex": {"type": "string"} } }, "PrbBlankingConfigurationList": { "type": "array", "items": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/PrbBlankingConfigItem" } }, "SleepMode": { "type": "object", "properties": { "sleepModeType": { "type": "string", "enum": ["SLEEP_MODE0"," SLEEP_MODE1"," SLEEP_MODE2"," SLEEP_MODE3"] }, "wakeupDuration": {"type": "integer"}, "wakeupDurationGuaranteed": {"type": "boolean"} }, "required": ["sleepModeType", "wakeupDuration", "wakeupDurationGuaranteed"] }, "SleepModes": { "type": "array", "items": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/SleepMode" } }, "SupportedTrxControlMask": { "type": "object", "properties": { "maskName": {"type": "string"}, "antennaMask": {"type": "integer"} }, "required": ["maskName", "antennaMask"] }, "SupportedTrxControlMasks": { "type": "array", "items": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/SupportedTrxControlMask" } }, "EnergySavingCapabilityCommonInfo": { "type": "object", "properties": { "ST8-ready-message-supported": {"type": "boolean"}, "sleep-duration-extension-supported": {"type": "boolean"}, "emergency-wake-up-command-supported": {"type": "boolean"} }, "required": ["ST8-ready-message-supported", " sleep-duration-extension-supported", "emergency- wake-up-command-supported"] }, "AsmCapabilityInfo": { "type": "object", "properties": { "sleepModes": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/SleepModes"}, "definedDurationSleepSupported": {"type": "boolean"}, "undefinedDurationSleepSupported": {"type": "boolean"} }, "required": ["sleepModes", "definedDurationSleepSupported", "undefinedDurationSleepSupported"] }, "TrxControlCapabilityInfo": { "type": "object", "properties": { "supportedTrxControlMasks": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/SupportedTrxControlMasks"}, "sleepModes": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/SleepModes"}, "definedDurationSleepSupported": {"type": "boolean"}, "undefinedDurationSleepSupported": {"type": "boolean"} }, "required": ["supportedTrxControlMasks", "sleepModes", "definedDurationSleepSupported", "undefinedDurationSleepSupported"] }, "OruCapabilities": { "type": "object", "properties": { "energySavingCapabilityCommonInfo": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/EnergySavingCapabilityCommonInfo"}, "asmCapabilityInfo": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/AsmCapabilityInfo"}, "trxControlCapabilityInfo": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/TrxControlCapabilityInfo"} } }, "OnDurationTimer": { "oneOf": [ { "type": "integer", "minimum": 1, "maximum": 31 }, { "type": "string", "enum": ["ms1", "ms2", "ms3", "ms4", "ms5", "ms6", "ms8", "ms10", "ms20", "ms40", "ms50", "ms60", "ms80", "ms100", "ms200", "ms300", "ms400", "ms500", "ms600", "ms800", "ms1000", "ms1200", "ms1600"] } ] }, "CycleStartOffset": { "type": "object", "properties": { "periodicity": { "type": "string", "enum": ["ms10", "ms20", "ms32", "ms40", "ms60", "ms64", "ms70", "ms80", "ms128", "ms160", "ms256", "ms320", "ms512", "ms640", "ms1024", "ms1280", "ms2048", "ms2560", "ms5120", "ms10240"] }, "offset": { "type": "integer", "minimum": 0, "maximum": 10239 } } }, "tPolarizationItem": { "type": "object", "properties": { "tPolarizationIndex": { "type": "integer", "minimum": 0, "maximum": 255 }, "tPolarizationType": { "type": "string", "enum": [ "MINUS_45", "ZERO", "PLUS_45", "PLUS_90" ] } }, "required": ["tPolarizationIndex", "tPolarizationType"] }, "rPolarizationItem": { "type": "object", "properties": { "rPolarizationIndex": { "type": "integer", "minimum": 0, "maximum": 255 }, "rPolarizationType": { "type": "string", "enum": [ "MINUS_45", "ZERO", "PLUS_45", "PLUS_90" ] } }, "required": ["rPolarizationIndex", "rPolarizationType"] }, "TxArrayItem": { "type": "object", "properties": { "tName": { "type": "string" }, "tNumberOfRows": { "type": "integer", "minimum": 1, "maximum": 65535 }, "tNumberOfColumns": { "type": "integer", "minimum": 1, "maximum": 65535 }, "tNumberOfArrayLayers": { "type": "integer", "minimum": 1, "maximum": 255 }, "tHorizontalSpacing": { "type": "number" }, "tVerticalSpacing": { "type": "number" }, "tNormalVectorDirection": { "type": "object", "properties": { "tAzimuthAngle": { "type": "number" }, "tZenithAngle": { "type": "number" } } }, "tLeftmostBottomArrayElementPosition": { "type": "object", "properties": { "tXAxis": { "type": "number" }, "tYAxis": { "type": "number" }, "tZAxis": { "type": "number" } } }, "tPolarizationList": { "type": "array", "items": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/tPolarizationItem" } }, "tBandNumber": { "type": "integer", "minimum": 1, "maximum": 1024 }, "tMaxGain": { "type": "number" }, "tMinGain": { "type": "number" }, "tIndependentPowerBudget": { "type": "boolean" } }, "required": ["tName", "tNumberOfRows", "tNumberOfColumns", "tNumberOfArrayLayers", "tPolarizationList", "tBandNumber", "tMaxGain", "tIndependentPowerBudget"] }, "RxArrayItem": { "type": "object", "properties": { "rName": { "type": "string" }, "rNumberOfRows": { "type": "integer", "minimum": 1, "maximum": 65535 }, "rNumberOfColumns": { "type": "integer", "minimum": 1, "maximum": 65535 }, "rNumberOfArrayLayers": { "type": "integer", "minimum": 1, "maximum": 255 }, "rHorizontalSpacing": { "type": "number" }, "rVerticalSpacing": { "type": "number" }, "rNormalVectorDirection": { "type": "object", "properties": { "rAzimuthAngle": { "type": "number" }, "rZenithAngle": { "type": "number" } } }, "rLeftmostBottomArrayElementPosition": { "type": "object", "properties": { "rXAxis": { "type": "number" }, "rYAxis": { "type": "number" }, "rZAxis": { "type": "number" } } }, "rPolarizationList": { "type": "array", "items": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/rPolarizationItem" } }, "rBandNumber": { "type": "integer", "minimum": 1, "maximum": 1024 }, "rGainCorrectionRange": { "type": "object", "properties": { "rMax": { "type": "number" }, "rMin": { "type": "number" } } } }, "required": ["rName", "rNumberOfRows", "rNumberOfColumns", "rNumberOfArrayLayers", "rPolarizationList", "rBandNumber", "rGainCorrectionRange", "rMax", "rMin"] }, "TxArrayList": { "type": "array", "items": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/TxArrayItem" } }, "RxArrayList": { "type": "array", "items": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/RxArrayItem" } }, "OruUserPlaneConfiguration": { "type": "object", "properties": { "txArrayList": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/TxArrayList" }, "rxArrayList": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/RxArrayList" } } }, "O-GnbCuCpFunction": { "type": "object", "properties": { "gnbId": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/GnbId"}, "gnbIdLength": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/GnbIdLength"}, "gnbCuName": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/GnbName"}, "plmnId": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/PlmnId"}, "x2BlockList": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/GEnbIdList"}, "xnBlockList": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/GGnbIdList"}, "x2AllowList": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/GEnbIdList"}, "xnAllowList": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/GGnbIdList"}, "x2HOBlockList": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/GEnbIdList"}, "xnHOBlockList": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/GGnbIdList"} } }, "O-GnbCuUpFunction": { "type": "object", "properties": { "gnbId": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/GnbId"}, "gnbIdLength": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/GnbIdLength"}, "gnbCuUpId": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/GnbCuUpId"}, "plmnInfoList": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/PlmnInfoList"} } }, "O-GnbDuFunction": { "type": "object", "properties": { "gnbDuId": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/GnbDuId"}, "gnbDuName": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/GnbName"}, "gnbId": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/GnbId"}, "gnbIdLength": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/GnbIdLength"} } }, "O-NrCellCu": { "type": "object", "properties": { "cellLocalId": {"type": "integer"}, "plmnInfoList": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/PlmnInfoList"} } }, "O-NrCellDu": { "type": "object", "properties": { "cellLocalId": {"type": "integer"}, "operationalState": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/OperationalState"}, "administrativeState": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/AdministrativeState"}, "cellState": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/CellState"}, "plmnInfoList": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/PlmnInfoList"}, "nrPci": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/NrPci"}, "nrTac": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/NrTac"}, "arfcnDL": {"type": "integer"}, "arfcnUL": {"type": "integer"}, "arfcnSUL": {"type": "integer"}, "bSChannelBwDL": {"type": "integer"}, "ssbFrequency": { "type": "integer", "minimum": 0, "maximum": 3279165 }, "ssbPeriodicity": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/SsbPeriodicity"}, "ssbSubCarrierSpacing": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/SsbSubCarrierSpacing"}, "ssbOffset": { "type": "integer", "minimum": 0, "maximum": 159 }, "ssbDuration": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/SsbDuration"}, "bSChannelBwUL": {"type": "integer"}, "bSChannelBwSUL": {"type": "integer"}, "bwpList": {"type": "array","items": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/O-Bwp"}}, "partitionList": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/PartitionList"} } }, "O-RRMPolicyRatio": { "type": "object", "properties": { "resourceType": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/ResourceType"}, "rRMPolicyMemberList": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/RrmPolicyMemberList"}, "rRMPolicyMaxRatio": {"type": "integer"}, "rRMPolicyMinRatio": {"type": "integer"}, "rRMPolicyDedicatedRatio": {"type": "integer"} } }, "O-Bwp": { "type": "object", "properties": { "bwpContext": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/BwpContext"}, "isInitialBwp": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/IsInitialBwp"}, "subCarrierSpacing": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/SubCarrierSpacing"}, "cyclicPrefix": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/CyclicPrefix"}, "startRB": {"type": "integer"}, "numberOfRBs": {"type": "integer"} } }, "O-CESManagementFunction": { "type": "object", "properties": { "cesSwitch": {"type": "boolean"}, "energySavingState": { "type": "string", "enum": ["isNotEnergySaving", "isEnergySaving"] }, "energySavingControl": { "type": "string", "enum": ["toBeEnergySaving", "toBeNotEnergySaving"] } } }, "O-NESPolicy": { "type": "object", "properties": { "policyType": { "type": "string", "enum": ["ASM", "TRX_CONTROL"] }, "antennaMaskName": { "type": "string" }, "antennaMask": { "type": "string" }, "sleepMode": { "type": "string", "enum": ["SLEEP_MODE0", "SLEEP_MODE1","SLEEP_MODE2", "SLEEP_MODE3"] }, "dataDir": { "type": "string", "enum": ["DL", "UL"] }, "symbolMask": { "type": "integer", "minimum": 0, "maximum": 16383 }, "slotMask": { "type": "string" }, "validDuration": { "type": "integer" }, "esObjective": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/EsObjective" }, "perfObjectiveList": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/PerfObjectiveList" } } }, "O-PRBBlankingPolicy": { "type": "object", "properties": { "policyCategory": { "type": "string", "enum": ["prbBlankingConfiguration", "prbBlankingObjective"] }, "linkDir": { "type": "string", "enum": ["DL", "UL"] }, "startTime": { "type": "string" }, "endTime": { "type": "string" }, "prbBlankingConfigurationList": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/PrbBlankingConfigurationList" }, "prbBlankingObj": { "type": "number" } } }, "O-CellDTXDRXConfig": { "type": "object", "properties": { "onDurationTimer": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/OnDurationTimer" }, "cycleStartOffset": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/CycleStartOffset" }, "slotOffset": { "type": "integer", "minimum": 0, "maximum": 31 }, "configType": { "type": "string", "enum": ["DTX", "DRX", "DTXDRX"] }, "activationStatus": { "type": "string", "enum": ["ACTIVATED", "DEACTIVATED"] }, "l1Activation": { "type": "string", "enum": ["ENABLED", "DISABLED"] } } }, "O-RUInfo": { "type": "object", "properties": { "oruUserPlaneConfiguration": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/OruUserPlaneConfiguration"}, "oruCapabilities": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/OruCapabilities"} } }, "E2SM-CCC-RAN-Configuration-Structure": { "oneOf": [ { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/O-GnbCuCpFunction" }, { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/O-GnbCuUpFunction" }, { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/O-GnbDuFunction" }, { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/O-NrCellCu" }, { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/O-NrCellDu" }, { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/O-RRMPolicyRatio" }, { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/O-Bwp" }, { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/O-CESManagementFunction" }, { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/O-NESPolicy" }, { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/O-CellDTXDRXConfig" }, { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/O-RUInfo" }, { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/O-PRBBlankingPolicy" } ] }, "RIC-Indication-Header": { "type": "object", "properties": { "indicationHeaderFormat": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/IndicationHeaderFormat"} }, "required": ["indicationHeaderFormat"] }, "IndicationHeaderFormat": { "oneOf": [ { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/E2SM-CCC-IndicationHeaderFormat1" } ] }, "E2SM-CCC-IndicationHeaderFormat1": { "type": "object", "properties": { "indicationReason": {"enum": ["uponSubscription", "uponChange", "periodic"] }, "eventTime": {"type": "string"} }, "required": ["indicationReason", "eventTime"] }, "RIC-Indication-Message": { "type": "object", "properties": { "indicationMessageFormat": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/IndicationMessageFormat"} }, "required": ["indicationMessageFormat"] }, "IndicationMessageFormat": { "oneOf": [ { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/E2SM-CCC-IndicationMessageFormat1" }, { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/E2SM-CCC-IndicationMessageFormat2" } ] }, "E2SM-CCC-IndicationMessageFormat1": { "type": "object", "properties": { "listOfConfigurationStructuresReported": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/ListOfConfigurationsReported"} }, "required": ["listOfConfigurationStructuresReported"] }, "ListOfConfigurationsReported": { "type": "array", "items": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/ConfigurationStructure" } }, "ConfigurationStructure": { "type": "object", "properties": { "changeType": { "enum": ["none", "modification", "addition", "deletion"] }, "ranConfigurationStructureName": {"type": "string"}, "valuesOfAttributes": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/ValuesOfAttributes" }, "oldValuesOfAttributes": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/ValuesOfAttributes"} }, "required": ["changeType", "ranConfigurationStructureName", "valuesOfAttributes"] }, "ValuesOfAttributes": { "type": "object", "properties": { "ranConfigurationStructure": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/E2SM-CCC-RAN-Configuration- Structure" } }, "required": ["ranConfigurationStructure"] }, "E2SM-CCC-IndicationMessageFormat2": { "type": "object", "properties": { "listOfCellsReported": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/ListOfCellsReported"} }, "required": ["listOfCellsReported"] }, "ListOfCellsReported": { "type": "array", "items": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/CellReported" } }, "CellReported": { "type": "object", "properties": { "cellGlobalId": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/CellGlobalId" }, "listOfConfigurationStructuresReported": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/ListOfConfigurationsReported"} }, "required": ["cellGlobalId", "listOfConfigurationStructuresReported"] }, "CellGlobalId": { "type": "object", "oneOf": [ { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/NR-CGI" }, { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/EUTRA-CGI" } ] }, "NR-CGI": { "type": "object", "properties": { "plmnIdentity": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/PlmnId" }, "nRCellIdentity": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/NRCellIdentity"} }, "required": ["plmnIdentity", "nRCellIdentity"] }, "NRCellIdentity": { "type": "string", "pattern": "^[A-Fa-f0-9]{9}$" }, "EUTRA-CGI": { "type": "object", "properties": { "plmnIdentity": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/PlmnId"}, "eUTRACellIdentity": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/EUTRACellIdentity"} }, "required": ["plmnIdentity", "eUTRACellIdentity"] }, "EUTRACellIdentity": { "type": "string" }, "RIC-Control-Header": { "type": "object", "properties": { "controlHeaderFormat": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/ControlHeaderFormat"} }, "required": ["controlHeaderFormat"] }, "ControlHeaderFormat": { "oneOf": [ { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/E2SM-CCC-ControlHeaderFormat1" } ] }, "E2SM-CCC-ControlHeaderFormat1": { "type": "object", "properties": { "ricStyleType": { "type": "integer" } }, "required": ["ricStyleType"] }, "RIC-Control-Message": { "type": "object", "properties": { "controlMessageFormat": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/ControlMessageFormat"} }, "required": ["controlMessageFormat"] }, "ControlMessageFormat": { "oneOf": [ { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/E2SM-CCC-ControlMessageFormat1" }, { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/E2SM-CCC-ControlMessageFormat2" } ] }, "E2SM-CCC-ControlMessageFormat1": { "type": "object", "properties": { "listOfConfigurationStructures": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/ListOfConfigurationStructures"} }, "required": ["listOfConfigurationStructures"] }, "ListOfConfigurationStructures": { "type": "array", "items": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/ConfigurationStructureWrite" } }, "ConfigurationStructureWrite": { "type": "object", "properties": { "ranConfigurationStructureName": {"type": "string"}, "oldValuesOfAttributes": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/ValuesOfAttributes"}, "newValuesOfAttributes": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/ValuesOfAttributes" } }, "required": ["ranConfigurationStructureName", "oldValuesOfAttributes", "newValuesOfAttributes"] }, "E2SM-CCC-ControlMessageFormat2": { "type": "object", "properties": { "listOfCellsControlled": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/ListOfCellsControlled"} }, "required": ["listOfCellsControlled"] }, "ListOfCellsControlled": { "type": "array", "items": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/CellControlled" } }, "CellControlled": { "type": "object", "properties": { "cellGlobalId": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/CellGlobalId" }, "listOfConfigurationStructures": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/ListOfConfigurationStructures"} }, "required": ["cellGlobalId", "listOfConfigurationStructures"] }, "RANFunctionDefinition": { "type": "object", "properties": { "ranFunctionName": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/RANFunctionName" }, "listOfSupportedNodeLevelConfigurationStructures": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/ListOfSupportedRANConfigurationStructures"}, "listOfCellsForRANFunctionDefinition": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/ListOfCellsForRANFunctionDefinition"} }, "required": ["ranFunctionName"] }, "RANFunctionName": { "type": "object", "properties": { "ranFunctionShortName": {"type": "string"}, "ranFunctionServiceModelOID": {"type": "string"}, "ranFunctionDescription": {"type": "string"}, "ranFunctionInstance": {"type": "integer"} }, "required": ["ranFunctionShortName", "ranFunctionServiceModelOID", "ranFunctionDescription"] }, "ListOfSupportedRANConfigurationStructures": { "type": "array", "items": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/RANConfigurationStructure" } }, "RANConfigurationStructure": { "type": "object", "properties": { "ranConfigurationStructureName": {"type": "string"}, "listOfSupportedAttributes": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/ListOfSupportedAttributes"} }, "required": ["ranConfigurationStructureName"] }, "ListOfSupportedAttributes": { "type": "array", "items": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/Attribute" } }, "Attribute": { "type": "object", "properties": { "attributeName": {"type": "string"}, "supportedServices": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/RICServices"} }, "required": ["attributeName","supportedServices"] }, "RICServices": { "type": "object", "properties": { "eventTrigger": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/EventTrigger"}, "reportService": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/ReportService"}, "insertService": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/InsertService"}, "controlService": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/ControlService"}, "policyService": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/PolicyService"}, "queryService": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/QueryService"} } }, "EventTrigger": { "type": "object", "properties": { "listOfSupportedEventTriggerStyles": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/ListOfSupportedEventTriggerStyles"} }, "required": ["listOfSupportedEventTriggerStyles"] }, "ListOfSupportedEventTriggerStyles": { "type": "array", "items": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/EventTriggerStyle" } }, "EventTriggerStyle": { "type": "object", "properties": { "eventTriggerStyleType": {"type": "integer"}, "eventTriggerStyleName": {"type": "string"}, "eventTriggerFormatType": {"type": "integer"} }, "required": ["eventTriggerStyleType", "eventTriggerStyleName", "eventTriggerFormatType"] }, "ReportService": { "type": "object", "properties": { "listOfSupportedReportStyles": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/ListOfSupportedReportStyles"} }, "required": ["listOfSupportedReportStyles"] }, "ListOfSupportedReportStyles": { "type": "array", "items": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/ReportStyle" } }, "ReportStyle": { "type": "object", "properties": { "reportServiceStyleType": {"type": "integer"}, "reportServiceStyleName": {"type": "string"}, "listOfSupportedEventTriggerStylesForReportStyle": { "type": "array", "items": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/EventTriggerStyleType" } }, "reportServiceActionDefinitionFormatType": {"type": "integer"}, "reportServiceIndicationHeaderFormatType": {"type": "integer"}, "reportServiceIndicationMessageFormatType": {"type": "integer"} }, "required": ["reportServiceStyleType", "reportServiceStyleName", "listOfSupportedEventTriggerStylesForReportStyle", "reportServiceActionDefinitionFormatType", "reportServiceIndicationHeaderFormatType", "reportServiceIndicationMessageFormatType"] }, "EventTriggerStyleType": { "type": "object", "properties": { "eventTriggerStyleType": {"type": "integer"} }, "required": ["eventTriggerStyleType"] }, "InsertService": { "type": "object" }, "ControlService": { "type": "object", "properties": { "listOfSupportedControlStyles": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/ListOfSupportedControlStyles"} }, "required": ["listOfSupportedControlStyles"] }, "ListOfSupportedControlStyles": { "type": "array", "items": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/ControlStyle" } }, "ControlStyle": { "type": "object", "properties": { "controlServiceStyleType": {"type": "integer"}, "controlServiceStyleName": {"type": "string"}, "controlServiceHeaderFormatType": {"type": "integer"}, "controlServiceMessageFormatType": {"type": "integer"}, "ricCallProcessIDFormatType": {"type": "integer"}, "controlServiceControlOutcomeFormatType": {"type": "integer"} }, "required": ["controlServiceStyleType", "controlServiceStyleName", "controlServiceHeaderFormatType", "controlServiceMessageFormatType", "controlServiceControlOutcomeFormatType"] }, "PolicyService": { "type": "object" }, "QueryService": { "type": "object", "properties": { "listOfSupportedQueryStyles": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/ListOfSupportedQueryStyles"} }, "required": ["listOfSupportedQueryStyles"] }, "ListOfSupportedQueryStyles": { "type": "array", "items": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/QueryStyle" } }, "QueryStyle": { "type": "object", "properties": { "queryServiceStyleType": {"type": "integer"}, "queryServiceStyleName": {"type": "string"}, "queryServiceHeaderFormatType": {"type": "integer"}, "queryServiceDefinitionFormatType": {"type": "integer"}, "queryServiceOutcomeFormatType": {"type": "integer"} }, "required": ["queryServiceStyleType", "queryServiceStyleName", "queryServiceHeaderFormatType", "queryServiceDefinitionFormatType", "queryServiceOutcomeFormatType"] }, "ListOfCellsForRANFunctionDefinition": { "type": "array", "items": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/CellForRANFunctionDefinition" } }, "CellForRANFunctionDefinition": { "type": "object", "properties": { "cellGlobalID": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/CellGlobalId"}, "listOfSupportedCellLevelRANConfigurationStructures": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/ListOfSupportedRANConfigurationStructures"} }, "required": ["cellGlobalID"] }, "RICEventTriggerDefinition": { "type": "object", "properties": { "eventTriggerDefinitionFormat": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/EventTriggerDefinitionFormat"} }, "required": ["eventTriggerDefinitionFormat"] }, "EventTriggerDefinitionFormat": { "oneOf": [ { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/E2SM-CCC-EventTriggerDefinition-Format1" }, { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/E2SM-CCC-EventTriggerDefinition-Format2" }, { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/E2SM-CCC-EventTriggerDefinition-Format3" } ] }, "E2SM-CCC-EventTriggerDefinition-Format1": { "type": "object", "properties": { "listOfNodeLevelConfigurationStructuresForEventTrigger": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/ListOfRANConfigurationStructuresForEventTrigger"} }, "required": ["listOfNodeLevelConfigurationStructuresForEventTrigger"] }, "ListOfRANConfigurationStructuresForEventTrigger": { "type": "array", "items": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/RANConfigurationStructureForEventTrigger" } }, "RANConfigurationStructureForEventTrigger": { "type": "object", "properties": { "ranConfigurationStructureName": {"type": "string"}, "listOfAttributes": { "type": "array", "items": { "type": "string" } } }, "required": ["ranConfigurationStructureName"] }, "E2SM-CCC-EventTriggerDefinition-Format2": { "type": "object", "properties": { "listOfCellLevelConfigurationStructuresForEventTrigger": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/ListOfCellLevelConfigurationStructuresForEventTrigger" } }, "required": ["listOfCellLevelConfigurationStructuresForEventTrigger"] }, "ListOfCellLevelConfigurationStructuresForEventTrigger": { "type": "array", "items": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/CellLevelConfigurationStructureForEventTrigger" } }, "CellLevelConfigurationStructureForEventTrigger": { "type": "object", "properties": { "cellGlobalId": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/CellGlobalId"}, "listOfRANConfigurationStructuresForEventTrigger": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/ListOfRANConfigurationStructuresForEventTrigger"} }, "required": ["listOfRANConfigurationStructuresForEventTrigger"] }, "E2SM-CCC-EventTriggerDefinition-Format3": { "type": "object", "properties": { "period": {"type": "integer"} }, "required": ["period"] }, "RICActionDefinition": { "type": "object", "properties": { "ricStyleType": {"type": "integer"}, "actionDefinitionFormat": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/ActionDefinitionFormat"} }, "required": ["ricStyleType", "actionDefinitionFormat"] }, "ActionDefinitionFormat": { "oneOf": [ { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/E2SM-CCC-ActionDefinitionFormat1" }, { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/E2SM-CCC-ActionDefinitionFormat2" } ] }, "E2SM-CCC-ActionDefinitionFormat1": { "type": "object", "properties": { "listOfNodeLevelRANConfigurationStructuresForADF": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/ListOfRANConfigurationStructuresForADF"} }, "required": ["listOfNodeLevelRANConfigurationStructuresForADF"] }, "ListOfRANConfigurationStructuresForADF": { "type": "array", "items": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/RANConfigurationStructureForADF" } }, "RANConfigurationStructureForADF": { "type": "object", "properties": { "reportType": {"enum": ["all", "change"]}, "ranConfigurationStructureName": {"type": "string"}, "listOfAttributes": { "type": "array", "items": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/AttributeName" } } }, "required": ["reportType", "ranConfigurationStructureName"] }, "AttributeName": { "type": "object", "properties": { "attributeName": {"type": "string"} }, "required": ["attributeName"] }, "E2SM-CCC-ActionDefinitionFormat2": { "type": "object", "properties": { "listOfCellConfigurationsToBeReportedForADF": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/ListOfCellConfigurationsToBeReportedForADF"} }, "required": ["listOfCellConfigurationsToBeReported"] }, "ListOfCellConfigurationsToBeReportedForADF": { "type": "array", "items": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/CellConfigurationToBeReportedForADF" } }, "CellConfigurationToBeReportedForADF": { "type": "object", "properties": { "cellGlobalId": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/CellGlobalId"}, "listOfCellLevelRANConfigurationStructuresForADF": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/ListOfRANConfigurationStructuresForADF" } } }, "RIC-Control-Outcome": { "type": "object", "properties": { "controlOutcomeFormat": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/ControlOutcomeFormat"} }, "required": ["controlOutcomeFormat"] }, "ControlOutcomeFormat": { "oneOf": [ { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/E2SM-CCC-ControlOutcomeFormat1" }, { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/E2SM-CCC-ControlOutcomeFormat2" } ] }, "E2SM-CCC-ControlOutcomeFormat1": { "type": "object", "properties": { "receivedTimestamp": {"type": "string"}, "ranConfigurationStructuresAcceptedList": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/RanConfigurationStructuresAcceptedList"}, "ranConfigurationStructuresFailedList": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/RanConfigurationStructuresFailedList"} } }, "RanConfigurationStructuresAcceptedList": { "type": "array", "items": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/ConfigurationStructureAccepted" } }, "ConfigurationStructureAccepted": { "type": "object", "properties": { "ranConfigurationStructureName": {"type": "string"}, "oldValuesOfAttributes": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/ValuesOfAttributes"}, "currentValuesOfAttributes": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/ValuesOfAttributes" }, "appliedTimestamp": {"type": "string"} }, "required": ["ranConfigurationStructureName", "oldValuesOfAttributes", "currentValuesOfAttributes"] }, "RanConfigurationStructuresFailedList": { "type": "array", "items": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/ConfigurationStructureFailed" } }, "ConfigurationStructureFailed": { "type": "object", "properties": { "ranConfigurationStructureName": {"type": "string"}, "oldValuesOfAttributes": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/ValuesOfAttributes"}, "requestedValuesOfAttributes": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/ValuesOfAttributes"}, "cause": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/Cause"} }, "required": ["ranConfigurationStructureName", "oldValuesOfAttributes", "requestedValuesOfAttributes", "cause"] }, "Cause": { "type": "string", "enum": [ "NotSupported", "NotAvailable", "IncompatibleState", "JsonError", "SemanticError", "Unspecified" ] }, "E2SM-CCC-ControlOutcomeFormat2": { "type": "object", "properties": { "receivedTimestamp": {"type": "string"}, "listOfCellsForControlOutcome": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/ListOfCellsForControlOutcome"} }, "required": ["listOfCellsForControlOutcome"] }, "ListOfCellsForControlOutcome": { "type": "array", "items": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/CellControlOutcome" } }, "CellControlOutcome": { "type": "object", "properties": { "cellGlobalId": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/CellGlobalId" }, "ranConfigurationStructuresAcceptedList": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/RanConfigurationStructuresAcceptedList"}, "ranConfigurationStructuresFailedList": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/RanConfigurationStructuresFailedList"} }, "required": ["cellGlobalId"] }, "RIC-Query-Header": { "type": "object", "properties": { "queryHeaderFormat": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/QueryHeaderFormat"} }, "required": ["queryHeaderFormat"] }, "QueryHeaderFormat": { "oneOf": [ { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/E2SM-CCC-QueryHeaderFormat1" } ] }, "E2SM-CCC-QueryHeaderFormat1": { "type": "object", "properties": { "ricStyleType": { "type": "integer" } }, "required": ["ricStyleType"] }, "RIC-Query-Definition": { "type": "object", "properties": { "queryDefinitionFormat": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/QueryDefinitionFormat"} }, "required": ["queryDefinitionFormat"] }, "QueryDefinitionFormat": { "oneOf": [ { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/E2SM-CCC-QueryDefinitionFormat1" }, { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/E2SM-CCC-QueryDefinitionFormat2" } ] }, "E2SM-CCC-QueryDefinitionFormat1": { "type": "object", "properties": { "listOfNodelevelRanConfigurationStructuresForQuery": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/ListOfNodelevelRanConfigurationStructuresForQuery"} }, "required": ["listOfNodelevelRanConfigurationStructuresForQuery"] }, "ListOfNodelevelRanConfigurationStructuresForQuery": { "type": "array", "items": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/NodelevelRanConfigurationStructuresForQuery" } }, "NodelevelRanConfigurationStructuresForQuery": { "type": "object", "properties": { "ranConfigurationStructureName": {"type": "string"}, "listOfAttributes": { "type": "array", "items": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/AttributeName" } } }, "required": ["ranConfigurationStructureName"] }, "E2SM-CCC-QueryDefinitionFormat2": { "type": "object", "properties": { "listOfCellsToBeQueriedForQuery": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/ListOfCellsToBeQueriedForQuery"} }, "required": ["listOfCellsToBeQueriedForQuery"] }, "ListOfCellsToBeQueriedForQuery": { "type": "array", "items": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/CellsToBeQueried" } }, "CellsToBeQueried": { "type": "object", "properties": { "cellGlobalId": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/CellGlobalId" }, "listOfCelllevelConfigurationStructuresForQuery": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/ListOfCelllevelConfigurationStructuresForQuery"} }, "required": ["listOfCelllevelConfigurationStructuresForQuery"] }, "ListOfCelllevelConfigurationStructuresForQuery": { "type": "array", "items": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/CelllevelConfigurationStructuresForQuery" } }, "CelllevelConfigurationStructuresForQuery": { "type": "object", "properties": { "ranConfigurationStructureName": {"type": "string"}, "listOfAttributes": { "type": "array", "items": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/AttributeName" } } }, "required": ["ranConfigurationStructureName"] }, "RIC-Query-Outcome": { "type": "object", "properties": { "queryOutcomeFormat": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/QueryOutcomeFormat"} }, "required": ["queryOutcomeFormat"] }, "QueryOutcomeFormat": { "oneOf": [ { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/E2SM-CCC-QueryOutcomeFormat1" }, { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/E2SM-CCC-QueryOutcomeFormat2" } ] }, "E2SM-CCC-QueryOutcomeFormat1": { "type": "object", "properties": { "listOfConfigurationStructuresToBeReportedForQuery": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/ListOfConfigurationStructuresToBeReportedForQuery"} }, "required": ["listOfConfigurationStructuresToBeReportedForQuery"] }, "ListOfConfigurationStructuresToBeReportedForQuery": { "type": "array", "items": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/ConfigurationStructuresToBeReportedForQuery" } }, "ConfigurationStructuresToBeReportedForQuery": { "type": "object", "properties": { "ranConfigurationStructureName": {"type": "string"}, "valuesOfAttributes": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/ValuesOfAttributes" } }, "required": ["ranConfigurationStructureName", "valuesOfAttributes"] }, "E2SM-CCC-QueryOutcomeFormat2": { "type": "object", "properties": { "listOfCellsToBeReportedForQuery": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/ListOfCellsToBeReportedForQuery"} }, "required": ["listOfCellsToBeReportedForQuery"] }, "ListOfCellsToBeReportedForQuery": { "type": "array", "items": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/CellsToBeReportedForQuery" } }, "CellsToBeReportedForQuery": { "type": "object", "properties": { "cellGlobalId": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/CellGlobalId" }, "listOfConfigurationStructuresToBeReportedForQuery": {"$ref": "#/components/schemas/ListOfConfigurationStructuresToBeReportedForQuery"} }, "required": ["cellGlobalId", "listOfConfigurationStructuresToBeReportedForQuery"] } } } }

## 9.5 Message transfer syntax
Void

# 10 Handling of Unknown, Unforeseen and Erroneous
Protocol Data Void


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG3.TS.E2SM-KPM-R004-v07.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG3.TS.E2SM-KPM-R004-v07.00 O-RAN Work Group 3  Near-Real-time RAN Intelligent Controller   E2 Service Model (E2SM) KPM"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in TR 21.905 [i.2], O-RAN WG1.OAD [23], O-RAN.WG3.TS.E2SM [12] and the following apply:

KPM Report: Key performance measurements for 4G LTE and 5G NR Network Functions.

## 3.2 Symbols

## 3.3 Abbreviations

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.2], O-RAN WG1.OAD [23] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.2] and O-RAN WG1.OAD [23].

EN-DC	E-UTRA-NR Dual Connectivity

MR-DC	Multi-Radio Dual Connectivity

# 4 General

## 4.1 Forwards and Backwards Compatibility

The forwards and backwards compatibility of the protocol is assured by a mechanism where all current and future messages, and IEs or groups of related IEs, include ID and criticality fields that are coded in a standard format that will not be changed in the future. These parts can always be decoded regardless of the standard version.

## 4.2 Specification Notations

For the purposes of the present document, the following notations apply:

Service	When referring to a Service in the present document the SERVICE NAME is written with upper case characters and in bold followed by the word "service", e.g. REPORT service.

Procedure	When referring to an elementary procedure in the present document the Procedure Name is written with the first letters in each word in upper case characters followed by the word "procedure", e.g. Handover Preparation procedure.

Message	When referring to a message in the present document the MESSAGE NAME is written with all letters in upper case characters followed by the word "message", e.g. HANDOVER REQUEST message.

IE	When referring to an information element (IE) in the present document the Information Element Name is written with the first letters in each word in upper case characters and all letters in Italic font followed by the abbreviation "IE", e.g. E-RAB ID IE.

Value of an IE	When referring to the value of an information element (IE) the present document the "Value" is written as it is specified in the present document enclosed by quotation marks, e.g. "Value".

## 4.3 Void

# 5 E2SM Services

As defined in E2 General Aspects and Principles [2], a given RAN Function offers a set of services to be exposed over the E2 (REPORT, INSERT, CONTROL, POLICY and/or QUERY) using E2AP [3] defined procedures.  Each of the E2AP Procedures listed in table 5-1 contains specific E2 Node RAN Function dependent Information Elements (IEs).

Table 5-1: Relationship between E2SM services and E2AP Information elements

| RAN Function specific E2AP Information Elements | E2AP Information Element reference | Related E2AP Procedures |
| --- | --- | --- |
| RIC Event Trigger Definition IE | E2AP [3] clause 9.2.9 | RIC Subscription |
| RIC Action Definition IE | E2AP [3] clause 9.2.12 | RIC Subscription |
| RIC Indication Header IE | E2AP [3] clause 9.2.17 | RIC Indication |
| RIC Indication Message IE | E2AP [3] clause 9.2.16 | RIC Indication |
| RIC Call Process ID IE | E2AP [3] clause 9.2.18 | RIC Indication RIC Control |
| RIC Control Header IE | E2AP [3] clause 9.2.20 | RIC Control |
| RIC Control Message IE | E2AP [3] clause 9.2.19 | RIC Control |
| RIC Control Outcome IE | E2AP [3] clause 9.2.25 | RIC Control |
| RAN Function Definition IE | E2AP [3] clause 9.2.23 | E2 Setup RIC Service Update |
| RIC Query Header IE | E2AP [3] clause 9.2.36 | RIC Query |
| RIC Query Definition IE | E2AP [3] clause 9.2.37 | RIC Query |
| RIC Query Outcome IE | E2AP [3] clause 9.2.38 | RIC Query |

All of these RAN Function specific IEs are defined in E2AP [3] as “OCTET STRING”.

The purpose of this specification is to define the contents of these fields for the specific RAN Function “KPM Monitor”.

# 6 RAN Function Service Model Description

## 6.1 RAN Function Overview

E2 Service Model KPM (E2SM-KPM) shall support O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, and O-DU as part of NG-RAN connected to 5GC or as part of E-UTRAN connected to EPC.

The E2 Node shall host the RAN Function “KPM Monitor” which performs the following functionalities:

-	Exposure of available measurements from O-DU, O-CU-CP, and/or O-CU-UP via the RAN Function Definition IE.

-	Periodic reporting of measurements subscribed from Near-RT RIC.

This E2SM specification also exposes a set of services described in clause 6.2.

## 6.2 Supported RIC Services

### 6.2.1 REPORT

The “KPM Monitor” RAN Function shall provide the following REPORT services:

a) Fundamental level services:

-	E2 Node Measurement

-	E2 Node Measurement for a single UE

-	Condition-based, UE-level E2 Node Measurement

-	Common Condition-based, UE-level E2 Node Measurement

-	E2 Node Measurements for multiple UEs

b) Integrated level services:

-	Multi-report

These services shall be initiated according to:

-	Periodical event.

# 7 RAN Function Description

## 7.1 Description

The E2AP [3] procedures, E2 SETUP and RIC SERVICE UPDATE, are used to transport the RAN Function Definition IE.

For a specific RAN Function declared using E2SM-KPM, the RAN Function Definition IE, defined in clause 8.2.2, shall report the following information:

-	RAN Function name along with associated information on E2SM definition

-	Event trigger styles list along with the corresponding encoding type for each associated E2AP IE.

-	RIC REPORT Service styles list along with the corresponding encoding type for each associated E2AP IE.

For the case where RAN Function Definition IE, defined in clause 8.2.2, is present in the E2 SETUP REQUEST message the IE shall provide a complete list of all Styles and associated Formats and, where appropriate, Measurement information for all supported RIC services reflecting the current status of the RAN Function.

For the case where RAN Function Definition IE, defined in clause 8.2.2, is present in the RIC SERVICE UPDATE message within the E2AP RAN Functions Added List IE, the IE shall provide a complete list of all Styles and associated Formats and, where appropriate, Measurement information for all supported RIC services for the newly added RAN Function with a new RAN Function ID.

For the case where RAN Function Definition IE, defined in clause 8.2.2, is present in the RIC SERVICE UPDATE message within the E2AP RAN Functions Modified List IE, the IE shall provide a complete list of all the Styles and associated Formats and, where appropriate, Measurement information for all supported RIC services including both modified and unchanged information for an existing RAN Function.

## 7.2 RAN Function Name

RAN Function Short Name “ORAN-E2SM-KPM”

RAN Function Description “KPM Monitor”

RAN Function Instance, required when and if an E2 Node exposes more than one instance of a RAN Function based on this E2SM.

## 7.3 Supported RIC Event Trigger Styles

### 7.3.1 Event Trigger Style Types

| RIC Style Type | Style Name | Supported RIC Service Style | Style Description |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| RIC Style Type | Style Name | Report | Insert | Policy | Style Description |
| 1 | Periodic Report | 1-5, 255 | - | RIC Event Trigger Definition IE based on reporting period |  |
| 2 | Measurement Event | 1-5 | - | RIC Event Trigger Definition IE based on triggering condition(s) associated with specific measurements subscribed. |  |

### 7.3.2 Event Trigger Style 1: Periodic Report

Event Trigger style 1 shall set the KPM report period and uses the RIC Event Trigger Definition IE Format 1 (see clause 8.2.1.1.1)

### 7.3.3 Event Trigger Style 2: Measurement Event

Event Trigger style 2 is used to configure event-based reporting based on measurement data. Each event condition is defined using measurement-based or value-based parameters, and is evaluated based on the availability of measurement samples. If the Event Evaluation Period IE is included, the event condition is evaluated periodically according to the configured evaluation period. Otherwise, it is continuously evaluated whenever a new measurement sample becomes available for the associated parameters. The E2 Node can be configured with multiple event conditions simultaneously and triggered to send KPM reports when all the configured events happen or for any logical combination of events.

Example	For a window-average of three measurement samples of a specific measurement associated with a cell to be compared against a threshold integer value and triggered when exceeding the threshold, the Event Condition IE in 8.2.1.1.2 can be defined as follows:

- The Event Left Expression IE contains only one parameter and selects the Parameter Type IE as “Measurement”, where the Measurement Definition IE specifies the measurement and the associated cell via 8.3.33, and the corresponding Window Definition IE configures a window size of three with its aggregation function set to "avg".
- The Event Logical Operator IE is set to "greaterthan".
- The Event Right Expression IE contains only one parameter and selects the Parameter Type IE as “Value”, where the Test Value IE is assigned to the threshold integer value.
Example	For a sum of two different measurements (each from measurement type 1 and type 2, respectively) associated with a cell to be compared against a window-average of five measurement samples of a measurement type 3 associated with the same cell, and triggered when exceeding the window-averaged value, the Event Condition IE in 8.2.1.1.2 can be defined as follows:

- The Event Left Expression IE contains two parameters and selects the first Parameter Type IE as “Measurement”, where the Measurement Definition IE specifies the measurement type 1 and the associated cell via 8.3.33 while the corresponding Window Definition IE is absent.
- The Event Left Expression IE also selects the second Parameter Type IE as “Measurement”, where the Measurement Definition IE specifies the measurement type 2 and the associated cell via 8.3.33 while the corresponding Window Definition IE is absent. The Event Left Expression IE also includes the Aggregation Function IE set to “sum”.
- The Event Logical Operator IE is set to "greaterthan".
- The Event Right Expression IE contains only one parameter and selects the Parameter Type IE as “Measurement”, where the Measurement Definition IE specifies the measurement type 3 and the associated cell via 8.3.33, and the corresponding Window Definition IE configures a window size of five with its aggregation function set to "avg".
For any measurement-based parameter used in an event condition defined by the RIC Event Trigger Definition IE, the corresponding measurement must be subscribed by the RIC Action Definition IE in the same RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST message from the Near-RT RIC.

In this version of the specification, a measurement-based parameter associated with a specific UE is not supported.

This RIC Event Trigger Definition IE style uses RIC Event Trigger Definition IE Format 2 (8.2.1.1.2).

## 7.4 Supported RIC REPORT Service Styles

### 7.4.1 REPORT Service Style Type

| RIC Style Type | Style Name | Style Type Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | E2 Node Measurement | Used to carry measurement report from a target E2 Node Belongs to Fundamental level REPORT Services |
| 2 | E2 Node Measurement for a single UE | Used to carry measurement report for a single UE of interest from a target E2 Node Belongs to Fundamental level REPORT Services |
| 3 | Condition-based, UE-level E2 Node Measurement | Used to carry UE-level measurement report for a group of UEs per measurement type matching subscribed conditions from a target E2 Node Belongs to Fundamental level REPORT Services |
| 4 | Common Condition-based, UE-level Measurement | Used to carry measurement report for a group of UEs across a set of measurement types satisfying common subscribed conditions from a target E2 Node Belongs to Fundamental level REPORT Services |
| 5 | E2 Node Measurement for multiple UEs | Used to carry measurement report for multiple UEs of interest from a target E2 Node Belongs to Fundamental level REPORT Services |
| 255 | Multiple report measurements | Used for multiple actions of the selected fundamental level REPORT Service style(s). Belongs to Integrated level REPORT Services. |

The Report Service style 255 supports integrated level services configured per RIC Action Definition message by reusing the report RIC Action Definition IE and RIC Indication Message IE messages defined in the selected fundamental level Report Service style(s).

### 7.4.2 REPORT Service Style 1: E2 Node Measurement

#### 7.4.2.1 REPORT Service Style description

REPORT Service style 1 provides the performance measurement information collection from an E2 Node.

#### 7.4.2.2 REPORT Service RIC Action Definition IE contents

REPORT Service style 1 aims to subscribe to the measurements defined in TS 28.552 [4] and TS 32.425 [8], and shall use the RIC Action Definition IE Format 1 (see clause 8.2.1.2.1).

REPORT Service RIC Action Definition IE Format 1 contains measurement types that Near-RT RIC is requesting to subscribe followed by a list of subcounters to be measured for each measurement type, and a granularity period indicating collection interval of those measurements. For a certain measurement type to be subscribed, the Matching Condition for Reporting IE may also be included to give conditions for the E2 Node in reporting measurements, to report a measured value corresponding to that measurement type only when the value satisfies the given conditions.

For the measurement types that belong to a measurement object class confined in a single cell (e.g. "EUtranCellFDD" in TS 32.425 [8] or "NRCellDU" in TS 28.552 [4]), the Cell Global ID IE shall be included in the IE to point to a specific cell for collecting measurements within the E2 Node. The Cell Global ID IE shall not be included if all the subscribed measurement types are cell agnostic, i.e. belonging to measurement object classes not confined in a single cell (e.g. "GNBCUUPFunction" in TS 28.552 [4]). In case that both single-cell-confined and cell agnostic measurement types are subscribed together, the Cell Global ID IE shall be included in the IE and the E2 Node shall ignore the included Cell Global ID IE for those cell agnostic measurement types.

A measurement ID can be used for subscription instead of a measurement type if an identifier of a certain measurement type was exposed by an E2 Node via the RAN Function Definition IE.

#### 7.4.2.3 REPORT Service RIC Indication Header IE contents

REPORT Service style 1 shall use the RIC Indication Header IE Format 1 (see clause 8.2.1.3.1), which contains a measurement collection start time as UTC format.

REPORT Service RIC Indication Header IE Format 1 may carry file format version, sender name, sender type, and vendor name as printable strings.

#### 7.4.2.4 REPORT Service RIC Indication Message IE contents

REPORT Service style 1 shall use the RIC Indication Message IE Format 1 (see clause 8.2.1.4.1).

REPORT Service RIC Indication Message IE Format 1 carries a set of measurement data reported from an E2 Node. The reported data contains a set of measurement records, each collected at every granularity period during the reporting period. In case that the Matching Condition for Reporting IE has been configured in the RIC Action Definition IE for a measurement type and a measured value corresponding to that measurement type in a granularity period did not satisfy the configured reporting condition, the E2 Node shall indicate “Not Satisfied” instead of reporting the actual measured value within the measurement record corresponding to that granularity period. In case the configured reporting condition(s) are not satisfied entirely for a reporting period for all the subscribed measurement types, the E2 Node may omit sending the report for this reporting period. In case the E2 Node is not able to provide reliable data for a granularity period during the reporting period, it may include the optional Incomplete Flag IE, which indicates that the corresponding measurements record in the reported data is not reliable.

REPORT Service RIC Indication Message IE Format 1 may carry subscription information, i.e. Measurement Information List IE that indicates the order of measured values for each measurement record in the reported data, or their granularity period. If not present, the original subscription information shall apply.

### 7.4.3 REPORT Service Style 2: E2 Node Measurement for a single UE

#### 7.4.3.1 REPORT Service Style description

REPORT Service style 2 provides the performance measurement information collection for a single UE of interest from an E2 Node.

#### 7.4.3.2 REPORT Service RIC Action Definition IE contents

REPORT Service style 2 shall use the RIC Action Definition IE Format 2 (see clause 8.2.1.2.2), where the included UE ID indicates a specific UE of interest for measurement collection.

The rest of the subscription information follows the same as described in 7.4.2.2.

#### 7.4.3.3 REPORT Service RIC Indication Header IE contents

REPORT Service style 2 shall use the RIC Indication Header IE Format 1 (see clause 8.2.1.3.1) as described in 7.4.2.3.

#### 7.4.3.4 REPORT Service RIC Indication Message IE contents

REPORT Service style 2 shall use the RIC Indication Message IE Format 1 (see clause 8.2.1.4.1) as described in 7.4.2.4, where the measurement data reported is associated only to a specific UE that was subscribed.

### 7.4.4 REPORT Service Style 3: Condition-based, UE-level E2 Node Measurement

#### 7.4.4.1 REPORT Service Style description

REPORT Service style 3 provides the UE-level performance measurement information collection for a group of UEs per measurement type matching subscribed conditions from an E2 Node.

#### 7.4.4.2 REPORT Service RIC Action Definition IE contents

REPORT Service style 3 shall use the RIC Action Definition IE Format 3 (see clause 8.2.1.2.3), where, for each requested measurement within the Measurement Information Condition List IE, the Matching Condition IE serves as a condition to include the matched UEs’ measurement values into the reporting. The Matching Condition IE can be expressed by a list of subcounters to be measured (i.e. as a list of labels), or by a list of test conditions that need to be passed, or by a combination of both.

The rest of the subscription information follows the same as described in 7.4.2.2.

#### 7.4.4.3 REPORT Service RIC Indication Header IE contents

REPORT Service style 3 shall use the RIC Indication Header IE Format 1 (see clause 8.2.1.3.1) as described in 7.4.2.3.

#### 7.4.4.4 REPORT Service RIC Indication Message IE contents

REPORT Service style 3 shall use the RIC Indication Message IE Format 2 (see clause 8.2.1.4.2).

REPORT Service RIC Indication Message IE Format 2 carries a set of UE-level measurement data matching subscribed conditions. The included Measurement Information Condition UE List IE indicates the order of measured values for each measurement record in the reported data – a list of all the UE ID(s) satisfying the subscribed Matching Condition IE for each requested measurement within a Reporting Period.

In every granularity period during which a UE matching a subscribed condition stays in the E2 Node and maintains the  RRC_CONNECTED or RRC_INACTIVE state, the E2 Node shall collect the related data and reports it at the end of the reporting period.

The List of matched UE IDs IE for a certain measurement type in the Measurement Information Condition UE List IE indicates all the UE ID(s) that satisfied the subscribed Matching Condition IE for that measurement type and maintained the RRC_CONNECTED or RRC_INACTIVE state at least for one granularity period during the reporting period. The List of matched UE IDs IE can be omitted for a certain subscribed measurement type if none of the UEs were matched during the reporting period. If the List of matched UE IDs IE is used for a measurement type, then the same IE shall be used for all the measurement types in the Measurement Information Condition UE List IE.

If the List of matched UE IDs IE is used, in the granularity periods where the UE does not appear in the RRC_CONNECTED or RRC_INACTIVE state (e.g. transitioned to RRC_IDLE or UE identity track is lost), the E2 Node shall not collect the related data and NULL shall be reported for those granularity periods until the end of the Reporting Period. In this case, the E2 Node shall stop reporting measurements related to this UE in the subsequent reporting periods. If the List of matched UE IDs IE is used and a UE whose ID is included in the IE appeared in the middle of the reporting period, then NULL shall be reported for the granularity periods priori to the UE appearing in the E2 Node.

On the other hand, the Sequence of Matched UE IDs for Granularity Periods IE for a certain measurement type in the Measurement Information Condition UE List IE can be used to indicate the UE ID(s) that satisfied the subscribed Matching Condition IE for the corresponding measurement type and maintained the RRC_CONNECTED or RRC_INACTIVE state, separately for each and every granularity period in chronological order. If the Sequence of Matched UE IDs for Granularity Periods IE is used for a measurement type, then the same IE shall be used for all the measurement types in the Measurement Information Condition UE List IE, and the List of matched UE IDs IE, if included for any measurement type, shall be ignored.

The rest of the information follows the same as described in 7.4.2.4.

### 7.4.5 REPORT Service Style 4: Common condition-based, UE-level Measurement

#### 7.4.5.1 REPORT Service Style description

REPORT Service style 4 provides the UE-level performance measurement information collection for a group of UEs across a set of measurement types matching common subscribed conditions from an E2 Node.

#### 7.4.5.2 REPORT Service RIC Action Definition IE contents

REPORT Service style 4 shall use the RIC Action Definition IE Format 4 (see clause 8.2.1.2.4), where a Matching Condition IE serves as a condition to include the matched UEs’ measurement values into the reporting, common for each requested measurement within the Measurement Information List IE. The Matching Condition IE is expressed by a list of test conditions to filter matching UEs.

The rest of the subscription information follows the same as described in 7.4.2.2.

#### 7.4.5.3 REPORT Service RIC Indication Header IE contents

REPORT Service style 4 shall use the RIC Indication Header IE Format 1 (see clause 8.2.1.3.1) as described in 7.4.2.3.

#### 7.4.5.4 REPORT Service RIC Indication Message IE contents

REPORT Service style 4 shall use the RIC Indication Message IE Format 3 (see clause 8.2.1.4.3).

REPORT Service RIC Indication Message IE Format 3 carries a list of measurement data for UE(s) matching subscribed conditions.

In every granularity period during which a UE matching a subscribed condition stays in the E2 Node and maintains the  RRC_CONNECTED or RRC_INACTIVE state, the E2 Node shall collect the related data and report it at the end of the reporting period. In the granularity periods where the UE does not appear in the RRC_CONNECTED or RRC_INACTIVE state (e.g. transitioned to RRC_IDLE or UE identity track is lost), the E2 Node shall not collect the related data and NULL shall be reported for those granularity periods until the end of the Reporting Period. In this case, the E2 Node shall stop reporting measurements related to this UE in the subsequent reporting periods.

If none of the UEs were matched during the reporting period, then E2 Node shall not report measurements for that reporting period.

The rest of the information follows the same as described in 7.4.2.4.

### 7.4.6 REPORT Service Style 5: E2 Node Measurement for Multiple UEs

#### 7.4.6.1 REPORT Service Style description

REPORT Service style 5 provides the performance measurement information collection for multiple UEs of interest from an E2 Node.

#### 7.4.6.2 REPORT Service RIC Action Definition IE contents

REPORT Service style 5 shall use the RIC Action Definition IE Format 5 (see clause 8.2.1.2.5), where the included UE Identifiers indicates UEs of interest for measurement collection.

The rest of the subscription information follows the same as described in 7.4.2.2.

#### 7.4.6.3 REPORT Service RIC Indication Header IE contents

REPORT Service style 5 shall use the RIC Indication Header IE Format 1 (see clause 8.2.1.3.1) as described in 7.4.2.3.

#### 7.4.6.4 REPORT Service RIC Indication Message IE contents

REPORT Service style 5 shall use the RIC Indication Message IE Format 3 (see clause 8.2.1.4.3) as described in 7.4.5.4, where the measurement data reported is associated to multiple UEs that was subscribed and available in the system.

### 7.4.7 REPORT Service Style 255: Multiple report measurements

#### 7.4.7.1 REPORT Service Style description

REPORT Service style 255 provides support for the integration of multiple report jobs into a single report action from an E2 Node.

This REPORT Service style provides a mechanism to initiate multiple report action jobs of the selected fundamental level REPORT Service style(s) that should be processed in an integrated manner by the E2 Node, i.e. the RIC Subscription procedure is considered failed if at least one of the indicated report actions is unsuccessfully subscribed, and RIC SUBSCRIPTION FAILURE message shall be sent containing the appropriate error cause.

The resulting measurement reports may be either transmitted as an integrated single Report message consisting of a list of individual job specific Report messages or as individual Report messages each corresponding to a single job in the list defined in the RIC Action Definition IE.

#### 7.4.7.2 REPORT Service RIC Action Definition IE contents

REPORT Service style 255 shall use E2SM-KPM Action Definition Format 255 IE (see clause 8.2.1.2.6).

This REPORT Service RIC Action Definition IE contains a list of jobs, each associated with a unique Job ID IE. For each requested job, the Job Specific Action Definition IE corresponding to one of the Action Definition Formats of the fundamental level REPORT Services may be included. The Common Action Definition IE, if included, shall apply for a job where the corresponding Job Specific Action Definition IE is absent. In other words, the Common Action Definition IE shall be included, if at least one job does not have the corresponding Job Specific Action Definition IE configured. In this case, one or more optional job specific configuration IEs (Job Specific Cell Global ID IE, Job Specific UE ID IE, Job Specific List of Subscribed UE IDs IE) may also be included for such job, depending on which Action Definition Format of the fundamental level REPORT Services is configured for the Common Action Definition IE.

The following table presents the applicable report styles for each job specific IEs:

| Job specific IE | Applicable Fundamental level Report Style | E2SM-KPM Action Definition Format | Applicable IE |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Job Specific Cell Global ID IE | 1 | E2SM-KPM Action Definition Format 1 | Cell Global ID IE |
| Job Specific Cell Global ID IE | 2 | E2SM-KPM Action Definition Format 1, contained within Subscription Information IE in E2SM-KPM Action Definition Format 2 | Cell Global ID IE |
| Job Specific Cell Global ID IE | 3 | E2SM-KPM Action Definition Format 3 | Cell Global ID IE |
| Job Specific Cell Global ID IE | 4 | E2SM-KPM Action Definition Format 1, contained within Subscription Information IE in E2SM-KPM Action Definition Format 4 | Cell Global ID IE |
| Job Specific Cell Global ID IE | 5 | E2SM-KPM Action Definition Format 1, contained within Subscription Information IE in E2SM-KPM Action Definition Format 5 | Cell Global ID IE |
| Job Specific UE ID IE | 2 | E2SM-KPM Action Definition Format 2 | UE ID IE |
| Job Specific List of Subscribed UE IDs IE | 5 | E2SM-KPM Action Definition Format 5 | List of Subscribed UE IDs IE |

This REPORT Service RIC Action Definition IE may also include the Reporting Approach IE to indicate if the resulting RIC Indication message shall carry a single report integrating multiple job results, or if each job result should be reported independently via a separate RIC Indication message at each event trigger.

Example	The Common Action Definition IE corresponding to the E2SM-KPM Action Definition Format 1 is included, with different Job Specific Cell Global ID IE for each requested job in the List of Multi Report Action Definitions IE. In this case, each job is initiated according to the fundamental level REPORT Service Style 1, with the Cell Global ID IE replaced by the Job Specific Cell Global ID IE configured for each job.

#### 7.4.7.3 REPORT Service RIC Indication Header IE contents

REPORT Service style 255 shall use the RIC Indication Header IE Format 1 (see clause 8.2.1.3.1) as described in 7.4.2.3.

The Job ID IE shall be included if the Reporting Approach IE is included in this REPORT Service RIC Action Definition IE and set to “Single Integrated”.

#### 7.4.7.4 REPORT Service RIC Indication Message IE contents

REPORT Service style 255 shall use the E2SM-KPM Indication Message IE Format 255 (see clause 8.2.1.4.4) if the Reporting Approach IE is included in this REPORT Service RIC Action Definition IE and set to “Single Integrated”. In this case, the message carries a sequence of RIC Indication Message IE for each job identified by the Job ID IE, carrying the job result formatted according to the associated fundamental level REPORT Service specific RIC Indication Message IE.

If the Reporting Approach IE is included in this REPORT Service RIC Action Definition IE and set to “Multiple Individually”, the E2SM-KPM Indication Message IE Format 255 shall not be used. For each job result, an individual RIC Indication message shall be sent, formatted according to the associated fundamental level REPORT Service specific RIC Indication Message IE.

In all cases, the individual measurements and measurement records are ordered according to the definition in the applicable fundamental level REPORT Service style.

## 7.5 Supported RIC INSERT Service Styles

Void

## 7.6 Supported RIC CONTROL Service Styles

Void.

## 7.7 Supported RIC POLICY Service Styles

Void.

## 7.7A Supported RIC QUERY Service Styles

Void.

## 7.8 Supported RIC Styles and E2SM IE Formats

Table 7.8-1 and 7.8-2 provide a summary of the E2SM IE Formats defined to support this E2SM specification.

Table 7.8-1: Summary of the E2SM IE Formats defined to support RIC Event Trigger Styles

| RIC Event Trigger Style | Event Trigger Definition Format |
| --- | --- |
| Style 1 | 1 |
| Style 2 | 2 |
|  |  |

Table 7.8-2: Summary of the E2SM IE Formats defined to support RIC Service Styles

| RIC Service Style | Action Definition Format | Indication Header Format | Indication Message Format | Call Process ID Format | Control Header Format | Control Message Format | Control Outcome Format |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| REPORT |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Style 1 | 1 |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Style 2 | 2 | 1 |  |  |  |  |  |
| Style 3 | 3 | 1 | 2 |  |  |  |  |
| Style 4 | 4 | 1 | 3 |  |  |  |  |
| Style 5 | 5 | 1 | 3 |  |  |  |  |
| Style 255 | 255 | 1 |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| INSERT |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| CONTROL |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| POLICY |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| QUERY |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |

## 7.9 Conversion of measurements derived from 3GPP defined measured values

### 7.9.0 Conversion of measurement definitions

UE level and QoS Flow level measurements are defined based on the conversion of the measurements’ definitions provided in TS 28.552 [4], TS 32.425 [8], and O-RAN specific measurement defined in clause 7.10 according to the following rules:

| The type of the original measurements | The corresponding per-UE and per-UE-per-slice measurements | The corresponding per-QoS flow and per-slice-per-QoS flow measurements | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Throughput Delay Data volume In-session activity time | Measured per UE | Measured per QoS flow | For the Throughput and Data volume measurements, the formulas specified in 3GPP are used with restriction to the individual UE or individual QoS flow , and also based on clause 7.9.1. |
| PDCP drop rate IP latency | Measured per UE | Measured per QoS flow | For the Throughput and  Data volume measurements, the formulas specified in 3GPP are used with restriction to the individual UE or individual QoS flow. |
| Radio resource utilization | Measured per UE | N/A | The formulas specified in 3GPP are used with restriction to the individual UE. |
| RRC connections related PDU sessions related DRBs related  QoS flows related | Measured per UE | N/A |  |
| Mobility management | Measured per UE | N/A |  |
| CQI related  MCS related | Measured per UE | N/A |  |
| PEE related | N/A |  |  |
| Distribution of Normally/Abnormally  Released Calls | Measured per UE | N/A |  |

Beam level measurements are defined based on the conversion of the measurements’ definitions provided in TS 28.552 [4], TS 32.425 [8], and O-RAN specific measurement defined in clause 7.10 according to the following rules:

| The type of the original measurements | The corresponding per-beam measurements | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Mobility Management | Measured per source beam and neighboring cell pair | The formulas specified in 3GPP are used with restriction to the source beam-neighboring cell pair. |

### 7.9.1 Changes in the units of measurements while adopting for E2SM-KPM

The units of the following measurements in TS 28.552 [4] and TS 32.425 [8] are replaced with newer units, as shown in the table below.

| Measurement Type | Measurement Name | Data Type | Unit used in 3GPP | Unit used in E2SM-KPM |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| DL Cell PDCP SDU Data Volume, defined in TS 28.552 [4] clause 5.1.2.1.2.1. | DRB.PdcpSduVolumeDL_Filter | INTEGER | Mbit | Kbit |
| UL Cell PDCP SDU Data Volume, defined in TS 28.552 [4] clause 5.1.2.1.2.2. | DRB.PdcpSduVolumeUL_Filter | INTEGER | Mbit | Kbit |
| DL PDCP PDU Data Volume, defined in TS 28.552 [4] clause 5.1.3.6.1.1. | QosFlow.PdcpPduVolumeDL_Filter | INTEGER | Mbit | Kbit |
| UL PDCP PDU Data Volume, defined in TS 28.552 [4] clause 5.1.3.6.1.2. | QosFlow.PdcpPduVolumeUL_Filter | INTEGER | Mbit | Kbit |
| DL PDCP SDU Data Volume, defined in TS 28.552 [4] clause 5.1.3.6.2.1. | QosFlow.PdcpSduVolumeDl_Filter | INTEGER | Mbit | Kbit |
| UL PDCP SDU Data Volume, defined in TS 28.552 [4] clause 5.1.3.6.2.2. | QosFlow.PdcpSduVolumeUl_Filter | INTEGER | Mbit | Kbit |
| DL Cell PDCP SDU Data Volume on X2 interface, defined in TS 28.552 [4] clause 5.1.2.1.1.2. | DRB.PdcpSduVolumeX2DL_Filter | INTEGER | Mbit | Kbit |
| UL Cell PDCP SDU Data Volume on X2 interface, defined in TS 28.552 [4] clause 5.1.2.1.2.2. | DRB.PdcpSduVolumeX2UL_Filter | INTEGER | Mbit | Kbit |
| DL Cell PDCP SDU Data Volume on Xn interface, defined in TS 28.552 [4] clause 5.1.2.1.1.3. | DRB.PdcpSduVolumeXnDL_Filter | INTEGER | Mbit | Kbit |
| UL Cell PDCP PDU Data Volume on Xn interface, defined in TS 28.552 [4] clause 5.1.2.1.2.3. | DRB.PdcpSduVolumeXnUL_Filter | INTEGER | Mbit | Kbit |
| DL PDCP SDU Data Volume per interface, defined in TS 28.552 [4] clause 5.1.3.6.2.3. | DRB.F1uPdcpSduVolumeDl.QoS, DRB.X2uPdcpSduVolumeDl.QoS, DRB.XnuPdcpSduVolumeDl.QoS | INTEGER | Mbit | Kbit |
| UL PDCP SDU Data Volume per interface, defined in TS 28.552 [4] clause 5.1.3.6.2.4. | DRB.F1uPdcpSduVolumeUl.QoS, DRB.X2uPdcpSduVolumeUl.QoS, DRB.XnuPdcpSduVolumeUl.QoS | INTEGER | Mbit | Kbit |
| DL cell PDCP SDU Data Volume, defined in TS 32.425 [8] clause 4.4.7.1. | DRB.PdcpSduVolumeDl_Filter | INTEGER | Mbit | Kbit |
| UL cell PDCP SDU Data Volume, defined in TS 32.425 [8] clause 4.4.7.2. | DRB.PdcpSduVolumeUl_Filter | INTEGER | Mbit | Kbit |
| In-session activity time for UE, defined in TS 28.552 [4] clause 5.1.1.13.2.2. | QF.SessionTimeUE | INTEGER | s | ms |
| In-session activity time for DRB, defined in TS 28.552 [4] clause 5.1.1.10.4. | DRB.SessionTime.5QI, DRB.SessionTime.SNSSAI | INTEGER | s | ms |
| In-session activity time for QoS flow, defined in TS 28.552 [4] clause 5.1.1.13.2.1. | QF.SessionTimeQoS.QoS | INTEGER | s | ms |
| In-session activity time for UE, defined in TS 32.425 [8] clause 4.2.4.1. | ERAB.SessionTimeUE | INTEGER | s | ms |
| In-session activity time for E-RABs, defined in TS 32.425 [8] clause 4.2.4.2. | ERAB.SessionTimeQCI.QCI | INTEGER | s | ms |
| IP throughput in UL, defined in TS 32.425 [8] clause 4.4.6.2. | DRB.IPThpUl.QCI | REAL | Kbit | Kbit/s |

The changes in the units of the measurements shown in the above table are to prevent the reported values from being reported as 0 caused by rounding off the precision in the decimals to report them as INTEGER, except the last row of “IP throughput in UL”, which is to fix the erroneous unit.

## 7.10 O-RAN specific Performance Measurement

### 7.10.1 DL Transmitted Data Volume (RLC SDU)

| Measurement Name | DL Transmitted Data Volume (RLC SDU) |
| --- | --- |
| a) Description | This measurement provides the transmitted data volume in the downlink in a measurement time. The measurement is split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in EN-DC), and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI.  The unit is kbit. |
| b) Collection Method | CC |
| c) Condition | This measurement is obtained by counting the data volume counted on RLC SDU level, in kbit successfully transmitted (acknowledged by UE) in DL for one DRB during measurement time T. Separate counters are maintained for each mapped 5QI (or QCI for option 3) and for each supported S-NSSAI. |
| d) Measurement Result | Each measurement is an integer value representing the number of bits measured in kbits (1kbits=1000 bits). The number of measurements is equal to the number of PLMNs multiplied by the number of QoS levels multiplied by the number of S-NSSAIs. |
| e) Measurement Type | The measurement name has the form DRB.RlcSduTransmittedVolumeDL_Filter. Where filter is a combination of PLMN ID and QoS level and S-NSSAI. Where PLMN ID represents the PLMN ID, QoS represents the mapped 5QI or the QCI level, and SNSSAI represents S-NSSAI. |
| f) Measurement Object Class | NRCellDU |
| g) Switching Technology | Valid for packet switched traffic |
| h) Generation | 5GS |
| i) Purpose | One usage of this measurement is for performance assurance within integrity area (user plane connection quality). |

### 7.10.2 UL Transmitted Data Volume (RLC SDU)

| Measurement Name | UL Transmitted Data Volume (RLC SDU) |
| --- | --- |
| a) Description | This measurement provides the transmitted data volume in the uplink in a certain period. The measurement is split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in EN-DC), and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI.  The unit is kbit. |
| b) Collection Method | CC |
| c) Condition | This measurement is obtained by counting the data volume counted on RLC SDU level, in kbit successfully transmitted (acknowledged by E2 Node) in UL for one DRB during measurement time T. Separate counters are maintained for each mapped 5QI (or QCI for option 3) and for each supported S-NSSAI. |
| d) Measurement Result | Each measurement is an integer value representing the number of bits measured in kbits (1kbits=1000 bits). The number of measurements is equal to the number of PLMNs multiplied by the number of QoS levels multiplied by the number of S-NSSAIs. |
| e) Measurement Type | The measurement name has the form DRB.RlcSduTransmittedVolumeUL_Filter. Where filter is a combination of PLMN ID and QoS level and S-NSSAI. Where PLMN ID represents the PLMN ID, QoS represents the mapped 5QI or the QCI level, and SNSSAI represents S-NSSAI. |
| f) Measurement Object Class | NRCellDU |
| g) Switching Technology | Valid for packet switched traffic |
| h) Generation | 5GS |
| i) Purpose | One usage of this measurement is for performance assurance within integrity area (user plane connection quality). |

### 7.10.3 Distribution of Percentage of DL Transmitted Data Volume to Incoming Data Volume

| Measurement Name | Distribution of Percentage of DL Transmitted Data Volume to Incoming Data Volume |
| --- | --- |
| a) Description | This measurement provides the distribution of the percentage of successfully transmitted data volume to incoming data volume in downlink for UEs. The measurement is split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in EN-DC), and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI. |
| b) Collection Method | CC |
| c) Condition | The Measurement is calculated by 100*x/y for each UE. x is incremented by counting the number of bits counted on RLC SDU level  successfully transmitted (acknowledged by UE) in DL for one DRB during measurement time T. y is incremented by counting the number of bits entering the RLC layers in DL for one DRB during measurement time T. For each UE, the bin corresponding to the percentage of transmitted data volume to incoming data volume (100*x/y) experienced by the UE is incremented by one. Separate counters are maintained for each mapped 5QI (or QCI for option 3) and for each supported S-NSSAI. |
| d) Measurement Result | A set of integers, each representing the (integer) number of samples with a percentage of DL transmitted data volume to incoming data volume in the range represented by that bin. If the optional QoS level subcounter and S-NSSAI subcounter and PLMN ID subcounter measurements are performed, the number of measurements is equal to the number of mapped 5QIs and the number of supported S-NSSAIs, and the number of PLMN IDs. |
| e) Measurement Type | The measurement name has the form DRB.PerDataVolumeDLDist.Bin where Bin represents the bin, or optionally DRB.PerDataVolumeDLDist.Bin.QOS, where QOS identifies the target quality of service class, and DRB.PerDataVolumeDLDist.Bin.SNSSAI, where SNSSAI identifies the S-NSSAI, and DRB.PerDataVolumeDLDist.Bin.PLMN, where PLMN identifies the PLMN ID. |
| f) Measurement Object Class | NRCellDU |
| g) Switching Technology | Packet Switched |
| h) Generation | 5GS |
| i) Purpose | Network Operator’s Traffic Engineering Community |

### 7.10.4 Distribution of Percentage of UL Transmitted Data Volume to Incoming Data Volume

| Measurement Name | Distribution of Percentage of UL Transmitted Data Volume to Incoming Data Volume |
| --- | --- |
| a) Description | This measurement provides the distribution of the percentage of successfully transmitted data volume to incoming data volume in uplink for UEs. The measurement is split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in EN-DC), and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI. |
| b) Collection Method | CC |
| c) Condition | The Measurement is calculated by 100*x/y for each UE. x is incremented by counting the number of bits counted on RLC SDU level successfully transmitted (acknowledged by E2 Node) in UL for one DRB during measurement time T. y is incremented by counting the number of bits entering the RLC layers in UL for one DRB during measurement time T. It is up to implementation how to measure y reliably during T. For each UE, the bin corresponding to the percentage of transmitted data volume to incoming data volume (100*x/y) experienced by the UE is incremented by one. Separate counters are maintained for each mapped 5QI (or QCI for option 3) and for each supported S-NSSAI. |
| d) Measurement Result | A set of integers, each representing the (integer) number of samples with a percentage of UL transmitted data volume to incoming data volume in the range represented by that bin. If the optional QoS level subcounter and S-NSSAI subcounter and PLMN ID subcounter measurements are performed, the number of measurements is equal to the number of mapped 5QIs and the number of supported S-NSSAIs, and the number of PLMN IDs. |
| e) Measurement Type | The measurement name has the form DRB.PerDataVolumeULDist.Bin where Bin represents the bin, or optionally DRB.PerDataVolumeULDist.Bin.QOS, where QOS identifies the target quality of service class, and DRB.PerDataVolumeULDist.Bin.SNSSAI, where SNSSAI identifies the S-NSSAI, and DRB.PerDataVolumeUlDist.Bin.PLMN, where PLMN identifies the PLMN ID. |
| f) Measurement Object Class | NRCellDU |
| g) Switching Technology | Packet Switched |
| h) Generation | 5GS |
| i) Purpose | Network Operator’s Traffic Engineering Community |

### 7.10.5 Distribution of DL Packet Drop Rate

| Measurement Name | Distribution of DL Packet Drop Rate |
| --- | --- |
| a) Description | This measurement provides the fraction of RLC SDU packets which are dropped on the downlink, due to high traffic load, traffic management etc in the gNB-DU. Only user-plane traffic (DTCH) is considered. A dropped packet is one without any part of it having been transmitted on the air interface. The measurement is optionally split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in EN-DC), and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI. |
| b) Collection Method | SI |
| c) Condition | This attribute is created by counting the number of UEs experiencing a certain packet loss rate in each range. |
| d) Measurement Result | Each measurement is an integer value representing the drop rate multiplied by 1E6 of each UE within the range of the bin. The number of measurements is equal to one. If the optional QoS and S-NSSAI level measurement are performed, the measurements are equal to the number of mapped 5QIs and the number of supported S-NSSAIs. |
| e) Measurement Type | The measurement name has the form DRB.RlcPacketDropRateDLDist and optionally DRB.RlcPacketDropRateDLDist.QOS where QOS identifies the target quality of service class, and DRB.RlcPacketDropRateDLDist.SNSSAI where SNSSAI identifies the S-NSSAI. |
| f) Measurement Object Class | NRCellDU |
| g) Switching Technology | Valid for packet switched traffic |
| h) Generation | 5GS |
| i) Purpose | One usage of this measurement is for performance assurance within integrity area (user plane connection quality). |

### 7.10.6 Distribution of UL Packet Loss Rate

| Measurement Name | Distribution of UL Packet Loss Rate |
| --- | --- |
| a) Description | This measurement provides the distribution of the fraction of PDCP SDU packets which are not successfully received at gNB-CU-UP. It is a measure of the UL packet loss including any packet losses in the air interface, in the gNB-CU and on the F1-U interface. Only user-plane traffic (DTCH) and only PDCP SDUs that have entered PDCP (and given a PDCP sequence number) are considered.  The measurement is optionally split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in EN-DC), and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI. |
| b) Collection Method | SI |
| c) Condition | This attribute is created by counting the number of UEs experiencing a certain packet loss rate in each range. |
| d) Measurement Result | Each measurement is an integer value representing the loss rate multiplied by 1E6 of each UE within the range of the bin. If the optional QoS and S-NSSAI level measurement are performed, the measurements are equal to the number of mapped 5QIs and the number of supported S-NSSAIs. |
| e) Measurement Type | The measurement name has the form DRB.PacketLossRateULDist and optionally DRB.PacketLossRateULDist.QOS where QOS identifies the target quality of service class, and DRB. PacketLossRateULDist.SNSSAI where SNSSAI identifies the S-NSSAI. |
| f) Measurement Object Class | GNBCUUPFunction. NRCellCU. |
| g) Switching Technology | Valid for packet switched traffic. |
| h) Generation | 5GS. |
| i) Purpose | One usage of this measurement is for performance assurance within integrity area (user plane connection quality). |

### 7.10.7 DL Synchronization Signal based Reference Signal Received Power (SS-RSRP)

| Measurement Name | DL Synchronization Signal based Reference Signal Received Power (SS-RSRP) |
| --- | --- |
| a) Description | This measurement provides the average of the DL SS-RSRP (see TS 38.215 [16]) values reported from UEs in the cell when SS-RSRP is used for L1-RSRP as configured by reporting configurations as defined in TS 38.214 [18], in case the L1-RSRP report function is enabled. Separate counters are maintained for each SSB in the cell. |
| b) Collection Method | DER (N=1) |
| c) Condition | This measurement is obtained by taking the average of the reported DL SS-RSRP values (i.e. between RSRP_0 and RSRP_126, see Table 10.1.6.1-1 in TS 38.133 [17]) from UEs in the cell per SSB during a granularity period. |
| d) Measurement Result | Each counter is an real value representing the average of the reported DL SS-RSRP values (i.e. between RSRP_0 and RSRP_126, see Table 10.1.6.1-1 in TS 38.133 [17]) for each SSB. The number of measurements is equal to the number of SSB beams defined in the cell. |
| e) Measurement Type | The measurement name has the form L1M.DL-SS-RSRP.SSB, where SSB represents the counter associated with SSB. |
| f) Measurement Object Class | NRCellDU |
| g) Switching Technology | Valid for packet switched traffic |
| h) Generation | 5GS |
| i) Purpose | One usage of this measurement is for mMIMO Non-GoB optimization in [21]. |

### 7.10.8 DL Synchronization Signal based Signal to Noise and Interference Ratio (SS-SINR)

| Measurement Name | DL Synchronization Signal based Signal to Noise and Interference Ratio (SS-SINR) |
| --- | --- |
| a) Description | This measurement provides the average of the DL SS-SINR (see TS 38.215 [16]) values reported from UEs in the cell when SS-SINR is used for L1-SINR as configured by reporting configurations as defined in TS 38.214 [18], in case the L1-SINR report function is enabled. Separate counters are maintained for each SSB in the cell. |
| b) Collection Method | DER (N=1) |
| c) Condition | This measurement is obtained by taking the average of the reported DL SS-SINR values (i.e. between SINR_0 and SINR_127, see Table 10.1.16.1-1 in TS 38.133 [17]) from UEs in the cell per SSB during a granularity period. |
| d) Measurement Result | Each counter is an real value representing the average of the reported DL SS-SINR values (i.e. between SINR_0 and SINR_127, see Table 10.1.16.1-1 in TS 38.133 [17]) for each SSB. The number of measurements is equal to the number of SSB beams defined in the cell. |
| e) Measurement Type | The measurement name has the form L1M.DL-SS-SINR.SSB, where SSB represents the counter associated with SSB. |
| f) Measurement Object Class | NRCellDU |
| g) Switching Technology | Valid for packet switched traffic |
| h) Generation | 5GS |
| i) Purpose | One usage of this measurement is for mMIMO Non-GoB optimization in [21]. |

### 7.10.9 UL Sounding Reference Signal based Reference Signal Received Power (SRS-RSRP)

| Measurement Name | UL Sounding Reference Signal based Reference Signal Received Power (SRS-RSRP) |
| --- | --- |
| a) Description | This measurement provides the average of the UL SRS-RSRP (see TS 38.215 [16]) values measured for UEs in the cell. |
| b) Collection Method | DER (N=1) |
| c) Condition | This measurement is obtained by taking the average of the measured UL SRS-RSRP  values for UEs in the cell during a granularity period. |
| d) Measurement Result | The measurement is an real value representing the average of the measured UL SRS-RSRP values. |
| e) Measurement Type | The measurement name has the form L1M.UL-SRS-RSRP. |
| f) Measurement Object Class | NRCellDU |
| g) Switching Technology | Valid for packet switched traffic |
| h) Generation | 5GS |
| i) Purpose | One usage of this measurement is for mMIMO Non-GoB optimization in [21]. |

### 7.10.10 Total number of scheduled time slots

#### 7.10.10.1 Cell-specific DL Total transmission time duration

| Measurement Name | Cell-specific DL total transmission time duration |
| --- | --- |
| a) Description | This measurement provides the total duration of time that covers the total number of time slots within each measurement granularity period, when one or more transport blocks were scheduled for HARQ downlink transmission (including HARQ retransmission) from the radio resources of a given component carrier (i.e., a given cell) to the UEs.  The total number of time slots scheduled for a UE includes the unique time slots scheduled from the component carrier, irrespective of whether it is the primary component carrier (i.e., the primary cell) or a secondary supplemental component carrier (i.e., the secondary cell) to the UE, for downlink transmission of one or more transport blocks to the UE.  The unit is in micro-second [s]. The measurement is optionally split into sub-counters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in EN-DC) and sub-counters per supported S-NSSAI, and sub-counters per PLMN ID, and sub-counters from BWP. |
| b) Collection Method | CC |
| c) Condition | The counter is incremented by the length of the time slot (in micro-seconds) during every time slot, when a HARQ downlink transmission is scheduled on the radio resources of the cell to one or more UEs served by the cell, either in its capacity as the primary cell or a secondary cell for the UEs. For this counter to be generated at a per-UE level, the counter is incremented by the length of the time slot (in micro-seconds), during every time slot when a HARQ transmission is scheduled on the radio resources of the cell to the given UE served by the cell, either in its capacity as the primary cell or a secondary cell for the UE. |
| d) Measurement Result | Each measurement is a single integer value.  If optional measurements with sub-counters are performed, the number of measurements is equal to the number of supported QoS levels, the number of supported S-NSSAIs, the number of supported PLMNs, and the number of supported BWPs. |
| e) Measurement Type | The measurement name has the form: ScheduledTxTimeDl (as the default measurement, without sub-counters or filters), or optionally, ScheduledTxTimeDl.QOS, where QOS identifies the target quality of service class, ScheduledTxTimeDl.SNSSAI , where SNSSAI identifies the S-NSSAI, and ScheduledTxTimeDl.PLMN, where PLMN refers to the PLMN ID, and ScheduledTxTimeDl.BWP, where BWP identifies the active BWP. |
| f) Measurement Object Class | NRCellDU |
| g) Switching Technology | Valid for packet switched traffic |
| h) Generation | 5GS |
| i) Purpose | One usage of this measurement is for performance assurance within integrity area (user plane connection quality). |

#### 7.10.10.2 Cell-specific downlink total failed transmission time duration

| Measurement Name | Cell-specific DL total failed transmission time duration |
| --- | --- |
| a) Description | This measurement provides the total duration of time that covers the total number of time slots within each measurement granularity period, when one or more transport blocks were unsuccessfully transmitted in the downlink from the radio resources of a given component carrier (i.e., a given cell) to the UEs, resulting in HARQ NACKs from the UEs. For a given UE, this measurement indicates the total number of unique time slots scheduled from the component carrier, irrespective of whether it is the primary component carrier (i.e., the primary cell) or a secondary supplemental component carrier (i.e., the secondary cell) to the UE, which resulted in unsuccessful transmission of one or more transport blocks to the UE.  The unit is In micro-second [s]. The measurement is optionally split into sub-counters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in EN-DC) and sub-counters per supported S-NSSAI, and sub-counters per PLMN ID, and sub-counters from BWP. |
| b) Collection Method | CC |
| c) Condition | The counter is incremented by the length of the time slot (in micro-seconds) during every time slot, when the O-DU receives a NACK from any UE for a HARQ downlink transmission from the radio resources of the cell to the UE, irrespective of whether the cell serves the UE as the primary component carrier (i.e., the primary cell) or a secondary supplemental component carrier (i.e., the secondary cell). For this counter to be generated at a per-UE level, the counter is incremented by the length of the time slot (in micro-seconds) during every time slot, when the O-DU receives a NACK from the UE for a HARQ downlink transmission from the radio resources of the cell to the UE, irrespective of whether the cell serves the UE as the primary component carrier (i.e., the primary cell) or a secondary supplemental component carrier (i.e., the secondary cell). |
| d) Measurement Result | Each measurement is a single integer value. If optional measurements with sub-counters are performed, the number of measurements is equal to the number of supported QoS levels, the number of supported S-NSSAIs, the number of supported PLMNs, and the number of supported BWPs. |
| e) Measurement Type | The measurement name has the form: FailedTxTimeDl (as the default measurement, without sub-counters or filters), or optionally, FailedTxTimeDl.QOS, where QOS identifies the target quality of service class, FailedTxTimeDl.SNSSAI, where SNSSAI identifies the S-NSSAI, and FailedTxTimeDl.PLMN, where PLMN refers to the PLMN ID, and FailedTxTimeDl.BWP, where BWP identifies the active BWP. |
| f) Measurement Object Class | NRCellDU |
| g) Switching Technology | Valid for packet switched traffic |
| h) Generation | 5GS |
| i) Purpose | One usage of this measurement is for performance assurance within integrity area (user plane connection quality). |

#### 7.10.10.3 Cell-specific downlink retransmission time duration

| Measurement Name | Cell-specific DL retransmission time duration |
| --- | --- |
| a) Description | This measurement provides the total duration of time covering the total number of time slots within each measurement granularity period, when one or more previously-unsuccessfully-transmitted transport blocks were scheduled for HARQ retransmission in the downlink from the radio resources of a given component carrier (i.e., a given cell) to the UEs.  The total number of time slots scheduled for a UE includes the unique time slots scheduled from the component carrier in the downlink, irrespective of whether it is the primary component carrier (i.e., the primary cell) or a secondary supplemental component carrier (i.e., the secondary cell) to the UE, for HARQ retransmission of one or more transport blocks to the UE.  The unit is in micro-second [s]. The measurement is optionally split into sub-counters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in EN-DC) and sub-counters per supported S-NSSAI, and sub-counters per PLMN ID, and sub-counters from BWP. |
| b) Collection Method | CC |
| c) Condition | The counter is incremented by the length of the time slot (in micro-seconds) during every time slot, when a HARQ downlink re-transmission of one or more previously-unsuccessfully-transmitted transport blocks is scheduled on the radio resources of the cell to one or more UEs served by the cell, either in its capacity as the primary cell or a supplemental secondary cell for the UEs. For this counter to be generated at a per-UE level, the counter is incremented by the length of the time slot (in micro-seconds), during every time slot when a HARQ downlink re-transmission of one or more previously-unsuccessfully-transmitted transport blocks is scheduled on the radio resources of the cell to the given UE served by the cell, either in its capacity as the primary cell or a supplemental secondary cell for the UE. |
| d) Measurement Result | Each measurement is a single integer value. If optional measurements with sub-counters are performed, the number of measurements is equal to the number of supported QoS levels, the number of supported S-NSSAIs, the number of supported PLMNs, and the number of supported BWPs. |
| e) Measurement Type | The measurement name has the form: ScheduledReTxTimeDl(as the default measurement, without sub-counters or filters), or optionally, ScheduledReTxTimeDl.QOS , where QOS identifies the target quality of service class, ScheduledReTxTimeDl.SNSSAI where SNSSAI identifies the S-NSSAI, and ScheduledReTxTimeDl.PLMN, where PLMN refers to the PLMN ID, andScheduledReTxTimeDl.BWP , where BWP identifies the active BWP. |
| f) Measurement Object Class | NRCellDU |
| g) Switching Technology | Valid for packet switched traffic |
| h) Generation | 5GS |
| i) Purpose | One usage of this measurement is for performance assurance within integrity area (user plane connection quality). |

#### 7.10.10.4 Cell-specific downlink total SU-MIMO transmission time duration

| Measurement Name | Cell-specific DL total SU-MIMO transmission time duration |
| --- | --- |
| a) Description | This measurement provides the total duration of time that covers the total number of time slots within each measurement granularity period, when multiple transport blocks were scheduled for HARQ downlink transmission in SU-MIMO mode from the radio resources of a given component carrier (i.e., a given cell) to the UEs.  The total number of time slots scheduled for a UE includes the unique time slots scheduled from the component carrier, irrespective of whether it is the primary component carrier (i.e., the primary cell) or a secondary supplemental component carrier (i.e., the secondary cell) to the UE, for transmission of multiple transport blocks in SU-MIMO mode to the UE.  The unit is in micro-second [s]. The measurement is optionally split into sub-counters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in EN-DC) and sub-counters per supported S-NSSAI, and sub-counters per PLMN ID, and sub-counters from BWP. |
| b) Collection Method | CC |
| c) Condition | The counter is incremented by the length of the time slot (in micro-seconds) during every time slot, when a HARQ downlink transmission of multiple transport blocks in SU-MIMO mode is scheduled on the radio resources of the cell to one or more UEs served by the cell, either in its capacity as the primary cell or a secondary cell for the UEs. For this counter to be generated at a per-UE level, the counter is incremented by the length of the time slot (in micro-seconds), during every time slot when a HARQ downlink transmission of multiple transport blocks in SU-MIMO mode is scheduled on the radio resources of the cell to the given UE served by the cell, either in its capacity as the primary cell or a secondary cell for the UE. |
| d) Measurement Result | Each measurement is a single integer value. If optional measurements with sub-counters are performed, the number of measurements is equal to the number of supported QoS levels, the number of supported S-NSSAIs, the number of supported PLMNs, and the number of supported BWPs. |
| e) Measurement Type | The measurement name has the form: ScheduledTxTimeDlSUMIMO (as the default measurement, without sub-counters or filters), or optionally, ScheduledTxTimeDlSUMIMO.QOS , where QOS identifies the target quality of service class, ScheduledTxTimeDlSUMIMO.SNSSAI , where SNSSAI identifies the S-NSSAI, and ScheduledTxTimeDlSUMIMO.PLMN, where PLMN refers to the PLMN ID, and ScheduledTxTimeDlSUMIMO.BWP, where BWP identifies the active BWP. |
| f) Measurement Object Class | NRCellDU |
| g) Switching Technology | Valid for packet switched traffic |
| h) Generation | 5GS |
| i) Purpose | One usage of this measurement is for performance assurance within integrity area (user plane connection quality). |

#### 7.10.10.5 Cell-specific downlink total MU-MIMO transmission time duration

| Measurement Name | Cell-specific DL total MU-MIMO transmission time duration |
| --- | --- |
| a) Description | This measurement provides the total duration of time covering the total number of time slots within each measurement granularity period, when multiple transport blocks were scheduled for HARQ downlink transmission in MU-MIMO mode from the radio resources of a given component carrier (i.e., a given cell) to the UEs.  The total number of time slots scheduled for a UE includes the unique time slots scheduled from the component carrier, irrespective of whether it is the primary component carrier (i.e., the primary cell) or a secondary supplemental component carrier (i.e., the secondary cell) to the UE, for transmission of downlink transport blocks to the UE when the UE is in MU-MIMO mode.  The unit is in micro-second [s]. The measurement is optionally split into sub-counters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in EN-DC) and sub-counters per supported S-NSSAI, and sub-counters per PLMN ID, and sub-counters from BWP. |
| b) Collection Method | CC |
| c) Condition | The counter is incremented by the length of the time slot (in micro-seconds) during every time slot, when a HARQ downlink transmission of multiple transport blocks in MU-MIMO mode is scheduled on the radio resources of the cell to multiple UEs served by the cell, either in its capacity as the primary cell or a secondary cell for the UEs. For this counter to be generated at a per-UE level, the counter is incremented by the length of the time slot (in micro-seconds), during every time slot when the UE is configured in MU-MIMO mode and when a HARQ downlink transmission of transport blocks is scheduled on the radio resources of the cell to the given UE served by the cell, either in its capacity as the primary cell or a secondary cell for the UE. |
| d) Measurement Result | Each measurement is a single integer value. If optional measurements with sub-counters are performed, the number of measurements is equal to the number of supported QoS levels, the number of supported S-NSSAIs, the number of supported PLMNs, and the number of supported BWPs. |
| e) Measurement Type | The measurement name has the form: ScheduledTxTimeDlMUMIMO (as the default measurement, without sub-counters or filters), or optionally, ScheduledTxTimeDlMUMIMO.QOS, where QOS identifies the target quality of service class, ScheduledTxTimeDlMUMIMO.SNSSAI, where SNSSAI identifies the S-NSSAI, and ScheduledTxTimeDlMUMIMO.PLMN, where PLMN refers to the PLMN ID, and ScheduledTxTimeDlMUMIMO.BWP, where BWP identifies the active BWP. |
| f) Measurement Object Class | NRCellDU |
| g) Switching Technology | Valid for packet switched traffic |
| h) Generation | 5GS |
| i) Purpose | One usage of this measurement is for performance assurance within integrity area (user plane connection quality). |

### 7.10.11 DL Transmitted Data Volume (MAC SDU)

| Measurement Name | DL Transmitted Data Volume (MAC SDU) |
| --- | --- |
| a) Description | This measurement provides the transmitted data volume in the downlink in a measurement time. The measurement is split into subcounters per PLMN ID and subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3), and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI.  The unit is kbit. |
| b) Collection Method | CC |
| c) Condition | This measurement is obtained by counting the data volume counted on MAC SDU level, in kbit successfully transmitted (reception of HARQ ACK) in DL for one DRB during measurement time T. Separate counters are maintained for each mapped 5QI (or QCI for option 3) and for each supported S-NSSAI. |
| d) Measurement Result | Each measurement is an integer value representing the number of bits measured in kbits (1kbits=1000 bits). The number of measurements is equal to the number of PLMNs multiplied by the number of QoS levels multiplied by the number of S-NSSAIs. |
| e) Measurement Type | The measurement name has the form DRB.MacSduTransmittedVolumeDL_Filter.  Where filter is a combination of PLMN ID and QoS level and S-NSSAI.  Where PLMN ID represents the PLMN ID, QoS represents the mapped 5QI or the QCI level, and SNSSAI represents S-NSSAI. |
| f) Measurement Object Class | NRCellDU |
| g) Switching Technology | Valid for packet switched traffic |
| h) Generation | 5GS |
| i) Purpose | One usage of this measurement is for performance assurance within integrity area (user plane connection quality). |

### 7.10.12 UL Transmitted Data Volume (MAC SDU)

| Measurement Name | UL Transmitted Data Volume (MAC SDU) |
| --- | --- |
| a) Description | This measurement provides the transmitted data volume in the uplink in a certain period. The measurement is split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3), and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI.  The unit is kbit. |
| b) Collection Method | CC |
| c) Condition | This measurement is obtained by counting the data volume counted on MAC SDU level, in kbit successfully transmitted (transmission of HARQ ACK) in UL for one DRB during measurement time T. Separate counters are maintained for each mapped 5QI (or QCI for option 3) and for each supported S-NSSAI. |
| d) Measurement Result | Each measurement is an integer value representing the number of bits measured in kbits (1kbits=1000 bits). The number of measurements is equal to the number of PLMNs multiplied by the number of QoS levels multiplied by the number of S-NSSAIs. |
| e) Measurement Type | The measurement name has the form DRB.MacSduTransmittedVolumeUL_Filter.  Where filter is a combination of PLMN ID and QoS level and S-NSSAI.  Where PLMN ID represents the PLMN ID, QoS represents the mapped 5QI or the QCI level, and SNSSAI represents S-NSSAI. |
| f) Measurement Object Class | NRCellDU |
| g) Switching Technology | Valid for packet switched traffic |
| h) Generation | 5GS |
| i) Purpose | One usage of this measurement is for performance assurance within integrity area (user plane connection quality). |

# 8 Elements for E2SM Service Model

## 8.1 General

Clause 8.2 describes the structure of the information elements as required for E2SM-KPM in tabular format. Clause 8.3 presents individual information elements. Clause 8.4 provides the corresponding ASN.1 definition of each information element.

The following attributes are used for the tabular description of the messages and information elements:

NOTE:	The messages have been defined by the guidelines specified in 3GPP TR 25.921 [i.3].

## 8.2 Message Functional Definition and Content

### 8.2.1 Messages for RIC Functional procedures

#### 8.2.1.1 RIC EVENT TRIGGER DEFINITION IE

This information element is part of the RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST message sent by the Near-RT RIC to an E2 Node and is required for event triggers used to initiate REPORT actions.

Direction: NEAR-RT RIC  E2 Node.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| CHOICE Event Trigger Format | M |  |  |  |
| >E2SM-KPM Event Trigger Definition Format 1 |  | 8.2.1.1.1 |  |  |
| >E2SM-KPM Event Trigger Definition Format 2 |  | 8.2.1.1.2 |  |  |

##### 8.2.1.1.1 E2SM-KPM Event Trigger Definition Format 1

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Reporting Period | M |  | INTEGER (1..4294967295) | The reporting period is expressed in unit of 1 millisecond. |

##### 8.2.1.1.2 E2SM-KPM Event Trigger Definition Format 2

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Sequence of Event Trigger |  | 1.. <maxnoofEventTrigger> |  |  |
| >Event Condition | M |  | 8.3.31 Event Formula | Defines the condition for event evaluation. |
| >Event Evaluation Period | O |  | INTEGER (1..4294967295) | Time interval for event evaluation, expressed in unit of 1 millisecond. |
| >Logical OR | O |  | ENUMERATED (true, …) | If set to “true”, logical connection to the next condition is “or”. |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxnoofEventTrigger | Maximum number of event trigger. Value is <65535>. |

#### 8.2.1.2 RIC ACTION DEFINITION IE

This information element is part of the RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST message sent by the Near-RT RIC to an E2 Node. In this service model, this information element provides additional information for the nominated Action (Report).

Direction: NEAR-RT RIC  E2 Node.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| RIC Style Type | M |  | 8.3.3 |  |
| CHOICE Action Definition Format | M |  |  |  |
| >E2SM-KPM Action Definition Format 1 |  | 8.2.1.2.1 |  |  |
| >E2SM-KPM Action Definition Format 2 |  | 8.2.1.2.2 |  |  |
| >E2SM-KPM Action Definition Format 3 |  | 8.2.1.2.3 |  |  |
| >E2SM-KPM Action Definition Format 4 |  | 8.2.1.2.4 |  |  |
| >E2SM-KPM Action Definition Format 5 |  | 8.2.1.2.5 |  |  |
| >E2SM-KPM Action Definition Format 255 |  | 8.2.1.2.6 | Used to generate list of fundamental level E2SM-KPM Action Definition IEs |  |

##### 8.2.1.2.1 E2SM-KPM Action Definition Format 1

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Measurement Information List |  | 1.. <maxnoofMeasurementInfo> |  |  |
| >CHOICE Measurement Type | M |  |  |  |
| >>Measurement Name |  | 8.3.9 Measurement Type Name |  |  |
| >>Measurement ID |  | 8.3.10 Measurement Type ID |  |  |
| >List of Labels |  | 1.. <maxnoofLabelInfo> |  |  |
| >>Label Information | M |  | 8.3.11 Measurement Label |  |
| >Matching Condition for Reporting |  | 0.. <maxnoofConditionInfo> |  |  |
| >>Measured Value Reporting Condition | M |  | 8.3.28 |  |
| >>Logical OR | O |  | 8.3.25 |  |
| Granularity Period | M |  | 8.3.8 Granularity Period | Collection interval of measurements |
| Cell Global ID | O |  | 8.3.20 Cell Global ID | Points to a specific cell for generating measurements subscribed by the Measurement Information List IE This IE is ignored when Report Style 255 is used, Common Action Definition IE is present and for the specific job, Job Specific Action Definition IE is absent and Job Specific Cell Global ID IE is present. |
| Distribution Measurement Bin Range Info List |  | 0.. <maxnoofMeasurementInfo> |  |  |
| >CHOICE Measurement Type | M |  |  |  |
| >>Measurement Name |  | 8.3.9 Measurement Type Name |  |  |
| >>Measurement ID |  | 8.3.10 Measurement Type ID |  |  |
| >Bin Range Definition | M |  | 8.3.26 | Indicates the value ranges of bins for distribution type measurement |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxnoofMeasurementInfo | Maximum no. of measurement types that can be reported by a single report. Value is <65535>. |
| maxnoofLabelInfo | Maximum no. of measurements values that can be reported for a single measurement type. Value is <2147483647>. |
| maxnoofConditionInfo | Maximum no. of conditions that can be subscribed for a single measurement type. Value is <32768>. |

##### 8.2.1.2.2 E2SM-KPM Action Definition Format 2

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| UE ID | M |  | 8.3.24 | Points to a specific UE of interest. This IE is ignored when Report Style 255 is used, Common Action Definition IE is present and for the specific job, Job Specific Action Definition IE is absent and Job Specific UE ID IE is present. |
| Subscription Information | M |  | 8.2.1.2.1 E2SM-KPM Action Definition Format 1 |  |

##### 8.2.1.2.3 E2SM-KPM Action Definition Format 3

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Measurement Information Condition List |  | 1.. <maxnoofMeasurementInfo> |  |  |
| >CHOICE Measurement Type | M |  |  |  |
| >>Measurement Name |  | 8.3.9 Measurement Type Name |  |  |
| >>Measurement ID |  | 8.3.10 Measurement Type ID |  |  |
| >Matching Condition |  | 1.. <maxnoofConditionInfo> | The Matching Condition represents the Boolean expression, the logical connection to the next condition is AND if the Logical OR IE is not included |  |
| >>CHOICE Condition Type | M |  |  |  |
| >>>Label Information |  | 8.3.11 Measurement Label |  |  |
| >>>Test Information |  | 8.3.22 Test Condition Information |  |  |
| >>Logical OR | O |  | 8.3.25 | If included, logical connection to the next condition is “or”. |
| >Bin Range Definition | O |  | 8.3.26 | Indicates the value ranges of bins for distribution type measurement |
| Granularity Period | M |  | 8.3.8 Granularity Period | Collection interval of measurements |
| Cell Global ID | O |  | 8.3.20 Cell Global ID | Points to a specific cell for generating measurements subscribed by the Measurement Information List IE. This IE is ignored when Report Style 255 is used, Common Action Definition IE is present and for the specific job, Job Specific Action Definition IE is absent and Job Specific Cell Global ID IE is present. |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxnoofMeasurementInfo | Maximum no. of measurement types that can be reported by a single report. Value is <65535>. |
| maxnoofConditionInfo | Maximum no. of conditions that can be subscribed for a single measurement type. Value is <32768>. |

##### 8.2.1.2.4 E2SM-KPM Action Definition Format 4

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Matching Condition |  | 1.. <maxnoofConditionInfoPerSub> | The Matching Condition represents the Boolean expression, the logical connection to the next condition is AND if the Logical OR IE is not included |  |
| >Test Information | M |  | 8.3.22 Test Condition Information | Provides test condition to filter matching UEs |
| >Logical OR | O |  | 8.3.25 | If included, logical connection to the next condition is “or”. |
| Subscription Information | M |  | 8.2.1.2.1 E2SM-KPM Action Definition Format 1 |  |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxnoofConditionInfoPerSub | Maximum no. of conditions that can be subscribed for a single subscription. Value is <32768>. |

##### 8.2.1.2.5 E2SM-KPM Action Definition Format 5

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| List of Subscribed UE IDs |  | 2.. <maxnoofUEIDPerSub> | Points to a list of UEs of interest. This IE is ignored when Report Style 255 is used, Common Action Definition IE is present and for the specific job, Job Specific Action Definition IE is absent and Job Specific List of Subscribed UE IDs IE is present. |  |
| >UE ID | M |  | 8.3.24 |  |
| Subscription Information | M |  | 8.2.1.2.1 E2SM-KPM Action Definition Format 1 |  |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxnoofUEIDPerSub | Maximum no. of UE IDs that can be subscribed for a single subscription. Value is <65535>. |

##### 8.2.1.2.6 E2SM-KPM Action Definition Format 255

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| List of Multi Report Action Definitions |  | 1.. <maxnoofJobs> |  |  |
| >Job ID | M |  | 8.3.30 |  |
| >Job Specific Action Definition | O |  | 8.2.1.2.7 | Used to define the Action Definition for a specific job. If absent, then the Common Action Definition IE applies to this specific job |
| >Job Specific Cell Global ID | O |  | 8.3.20 | Used to modify the Cell Global ID IE within the Common Action Definition IE when the Job Specific Action Definition IE is not present for this specific job |
| >Job Specific UE ID | O |  | 8.3.24 | Used to modify the UE ID IE within the Common Action Definition IE when the Job Specific Action Definition IE is not present for this specific job |
| >Job Specific List of Subscribed UE IDs | O |  | Used to modify the List of Subscribed UE IDs IE within the Common Action Definition IE when Job Specific Action Definition IE is not present for this specific job |  |
| Reporting Approach | M |  | ENUMERATED (Single Integrated, Multiple Individually, ...) | Indicates if integrated report is to be transmitted as Single report or Multiple Reports with one per each job |
| Common Action Definition | O |  | 8.2.1.2.7 | Used to define a common Action Definition for one or more jobs. Shall be included if at least one job does not have the corresponding Job Specific Action Definition IE configured. |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxnoofJobs | Maximum no. of fundamental levels jobs that can be reported. Value is <65535> |

##### 8.2.1.2.7 E2SM-KPM Fundermental-level Action Definition Choice IE

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| CHOICE Fundermental-level Action Definition Format | M |  |  |  |
| >E2SM-KPM Action Definition Format 1 |  | 8.2.1.2.1 |  |  |
| >E2SM-KPM Action Definition Format 2 |  | 8.2.1.2.2 |  |  |
| >E2SM-KPM Action Definition Format 3 |  | 8.2.1.2.3 |  |  |
| >E2SM-KPM Action Definition Format 4 |  | 8.2.1.2.4 |  |  |
| >E2SM-KPM Action Definition Format 5 |  | 8.2.1.2.5 |  |  |

#### 8.2.1.3 RIC INDICATION HEADER IE

This information element is part of the RIC INDICATION message sent by the E2 Node to the Near-RT RIC and is required for REPORT action.

Direction: E2 Node  NEAR-RT RIC.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| CHOICE Indication Header Format | M |  |  |  |
| >E2SM-KPM Indication Header Format 1 |  | 8.2.1.3.1 |  |  |

##### 8.2.1.3.1 E2SM-KPM Indication Header Format 1

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Collection Start Time | M |  | 8.3.12 Time Stamp |  |
| File Format Version | O |  | PrintableString (SIZE (0..15), …) |  |
| Sender Name | O |  | PrintableString (SIZE (0..400), …) |  |
| Sender Type | O |  | PrintableString (SIZE (0..8), …) |  |
| Vendor Name | O |  | PrintableString (SIZE (0..32), …) |  |
| Job ID | O |  | 8.3.30 | Used only for the REPORT Service Style 255 when “Multiple Individually” reporting is configured, to indicate the associated job ID of the RIC INDICATION message. |

#### 8.2.1.4 RIC INDICATION MESSAGE IE

This information element is part of the RIC INDICATION message sent by the E2 Node to the Near-RT RIC and is required for REPORT action.

Direction: E2 Node  NEAR-RT RIC.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| CHOICE Indication Message Format | M |  |  |  |
| >E2SM-KPM Indication Message Format 1 |  | 8.2.1.4.1 |  |  |
| >E2SM-KPM Indication Message Format 2 |  | 8.2.1.4.2 |  |  |
| >E2SM-KPM Indication Message Format 3 |  | 8.2.1.4.3 |  |  |
| >E2SM-KPM Indication Message Format 255 |  | 8.2.1.4.4 | Used only when “Single Integrated” reporting is configured for the REPORT Service Style 255. |  |

##### 8.2.1.4.1 E2SM-KPM Indication Message Format 1

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Measurements Data |  | 1.. <maxnoofMeasurementRecord> | Contains a set of Measurement Records, each collected at each Granularity Period. |  |
| >Measurements Record |  | 1.. <maxnoofMeasurementValue> | Contains measured values in same order as in the  Measurements Information List IE if present, otherwise in the order defined in the subscription. |  |
| >>CHOICE Measured Value | M |  |  |  |
| >>>Integer Value |  | INTEGER (0..4294967295) |  |  |
| >>>Real Value |  | REAL |  |  |
| >>>No Value |  | NULL | Indicates that no measurement value was generated. |  |
| >>>Not Satisfied |  | NULL | Indicates that the measured value did not satisfy the Matching Condition for Reporting, if configured. |  |
| >Incomplete Flag | O |  | ENUMERATED (true, …) | Indicates that the measurements record is not reliable. |
| Measurement Information List |  | 0.. <maxnoofMeasurementInfo> |  |  |
| >CHOICE Measurement Type | M |  |  |  |
| >>Measurement Name |  | 8.3.9 Measurement Type Name |  |  |
| >>Measurement ID |  | 8.3.10 Measurement Type ID |  |  |
| >List of Labels |  | 1.. <maxnoofLabelInfo> |  |  |
| >>Label Information | M |  | 8.3.11 Measurement Label |  |
| >Matching Condition for Reporting |  | 0.. <maxnoofConditionInfo> |  |  |
| >>Measured Value Reporting Condition | M |  | 8.3.28 |  |
| >>Logical OR | O |  | 8.3.25 |  |
| Granularity Period | O |  | 8.3.8 Granularity Period | Collection interval of measurements |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxnoofMeasurementInfo | Maximum no. of measurement types that can be reported by a single report. Value is <65535>. |
| maxnoofConditionInfo | Maximum no. of conditions that can be subscribed for a single measurement type. Value is <32768>. |
| maxnoofLabelInfo | Maximum no. of measurements values that can be reported for a single measurement type. Value is <2147483647>. |
| maxnoofMeasurementRecord | Maximum no. of measurement records that can be reported by a single report. Value is <65535>. |
| maxnoofMeasurementValue | Maximum no. of measurement values that can be carried by a single measurement record. Value is <2147483647>. |

##### 8.2.1.4.2 E2SM-KPM Indication Message Format 2

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Measurements Data |  | 1.. <maxnoofMeasurementRecord> | Contains a set of Measurement Records, each collected at each Granularity Period. |  |
| >Measurements Record |  | 1.. <maxnoofMeasurementValue> | Contains measured values in same order as in the  Measurements Information Condition UE List IE. |  |
| >>CHOICE Measured Value | M |  |  |  |
| >>>Integer Value |  | INTEGER (0..4294967295) |  |  |
| >>>Real Value |  | REAL |  |  |
| >>>No Value |  | NULL |  |  |
| >Incomplete Flag | O |  | ENUMERATED (true, …) | Indicates that the measurements record is not reliable. |
| Measurement Information Condition UE List |  | 1.. <maxnoofMeasurementInfo> |  |  |
| >CHOICE Measurement Type | M |  |  |  |
| >>Measurement Name |  | 8.3.9 Measurement Type Name |  |  |
| >>Measurement ID |  | 8.3.10 Measurement Type ID |  |  |
| >Matching Condition |  | 1.. <maxnoofConditionInfo> |  |  |
| >>CHOICE Condition Type | M |  |  |  |
| >>>Label Information |  | 8.3.11 Measurement Label |  |  |
| >>>Test Information |  | 8.3.22 Test Condition Information |  |  |
| >>Logical OR | O |  | 8.3.25 |  |
| >List of matched UE IDs |  | 0.. <maxnoofUEID> | Indicates the UE ID(s) matched for the corresponding measurement type during the Reporting Period. |  |
| >>UE ID | M |  | 8.3.24 |  |
| >Sequence of Matched UE IDs for Granularity Periods |  | 0.. <maxnoofMeasurementRecord> | Indicates the UE ID(s) matched for the corresponding measurement type, separately for each and every Granularity Period in chronological order.  If included, the List of matched UE IDs IE shall be ignored if received. |  |
| >>CHOICE Matched UE for Granularity Period | M |  |  |  |
| >>>None |  |  |  |  |
| >>>>No UE matched for Granularity Period | M |  | ENUMERATED (true, …) | Indicates that none of UEs were matched for the corresponding measurement type for the corresponding Granularity Period. |
| >>>One or more |  |  |  |  |
| >>>>List of UE IDs for Granularity Period |  | 1.. <maxnoofUEID> | Indicates the UE ID(s) matched for the corresponding measurement type for the corresponding Granularity Period. |  |
| >>>>>UE ID | M |  | 8.3.24 |  |
| Granularity Period | O |  | 8.3.8 Granularity Period | Collection interval of measurements |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxnoofMeasurementInfo | Maximum no. of measurement types that can be reported by a single report. Value is <65535>. |
| maxnoofConditionInfo | Maximum no. of conditions that can be subscribed for a single measurement type. Value is <32768>. |
| maxnoofUEID | Maximum no. of UE IDs that can be reported for a single condition. Value is <65535>. |
| maxnoofMeasurementRecord | Maximum no. of measurement records that can be reported by a single report. Value is <65535>. |
| maxnoofMeasurementValue | Maximum no. of measurement values that can be carried by a single measurement record. Value is <2147483647>. |

##### 8.2.1.4.3 E2SM-KPM Indication Message Format 3

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| List of UE Measurement Reports |  | 1.. <maxnoofUEMeasReport> |  |  |
| >UE ID | M |  | 8.3.24 |  |
| >Measurements Report | M |  | 8.2.1.4.1 E2SM-KPM Indication Message Format 1 | Contains Measurement Data for a UE for a Reporting Period. |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxnoofUEMeasReport | Maximum no. of UE Measurement Reports that can be reported. Value is <65535>. |

##### 8.2.1.4.4 E2SM-KPM Indication Message Format 255

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| List of Fundamental level Service style RIC Indication messages |  | 1.. <maxnoofJobs > |  |  |
| >Job ID | M |  | 8.3.30 |  |
| >RIC Indication Message | M |  | 8.2.1.4.5 | Contains the job-specific report |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxnoofJobs | Maximum no. of fundamental levels jobs that can be reported. Value is <65535>. |

##### 8.2.1.4.5 E2SM-KPM Fundermental-level Indication Message Choice IE

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| CHOICE Fundermental-level Indication Message Format | M |  |  |  |
| >E2SM-KPM Indication Message Format 1 |  | 8.2.1.4.1 |  |  |
| >E2SM-KPM Indication Message Format 2 |  | 8.2.1.4.2 |  |  |
| >E2SM-KPM Indication Message Format 3 |  | 8.2.1.4.3 |  |  |

#### 8.2.1.5 RIC CALL PROCESS ID

Void.

#### 8.2.1.6 RIC CONTROL HEADER IE

Void.

#### 8.2.1.7 RIC CONTROL MESSAGE IE

Void.

#### 8.2.1.8 RIC CONTROL OUTCOME IE

Void.

### 8.2.2 Messages for RIC Global Procedures

#### 8.2.2.1 RAN Function Definition IE

This information element is part of the E2 SETUP REQUEST, and RIC SERVICE UPDATE message sent by the E2 Node to the Near-RT RIC and is used to provide all required information for the Near-RT RIC to determine how a given E2 Node has been configured to support a given RAN Function specific E2SM.

Direction: E2 Node  NEAR-RT RIC.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| RAN Function Name | M |  | 8.3.2 |  |
| Sequence of Event Trigger styles |  | 0.. <maxnoofRICStyles> |  |  |
| >RIC Event Trigger Style Type | M |  | 8.3.3 |  |
| >RIC Event Trigger Style Name | M |  | 8.3.4 |  |
| >RIC Event Trigger Format Type | M |  | 8.3.5 |  |
| Sequence of Report styles |  | 0.. <maxnoofRICStyles> | To be used to describe supported fundamental level report styles |  |
| >RIC Report Style Type | M |  | 8.3.3 |  |
| >RIC Report Style Name | M |  | 8.3.4 |  |
| >RIC Report Action Format Type | M |  | 8.3.5 |  |
| >Sequence of Measurement Info for Action |  | 1.. <maxnoofMeasurementInfo> |  |  |
| >>Measurement Type Name | M |  | 8.3.9 |  |
| >>Measurement Type ID | O |  | 8.3.10 |  |
| >>Bin Range Definition | O |  | 8.3.26 | Indicates the value ranges of bins for distribution type measurement |
| >RIC Indication Header Format Type | M |  | 8.3.5 | Indication header type used by Report style |
| >RIC Indication Message Format Type | M |  | 8.3.5 | Indication message type used by Report style |
| Sequence of Integrated level Report styles |  | 0.. <maxnoofRICStyles> | To be used to describe supported integrated level report styles |  |
| >RIC Report Style Type | M |  | 8.3.3 |  |
| >RIC Report Style Name | M |  | 8.3.4 |  |
| >RIC Report Action Format Type | M |  | 8.3.5 |  |
| >RIC Indication Header Format Type | M |  | 8.3.5 | Indication header type used by Report style |
| >RIC Indication Message Format Type | M |  | 8.3.5 | Indication message type used by Report style |
| >Sequence of Fundamental level report styles |  | 1.. <maxnoofRICStyles> |  |  |
| >>RIC Report Style Type | M |  | 8.3.3 | Supported features (formats, measurement info, etc.) defined in corresponding fundamental level Report Style |
| >Multiple Individual Reporting Support | O |  | ENUMERATED (true, …) |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxnoofCells | Maximum no. of cells supported by an E2 Node component. The value is <16384>. |
| maxnoofRICstyle | Maximum no. of Style of Report, Insert, Control or Policy actions supported by RAN Function. The value is <63>. |
| maxnoofMeasurementInfo | Maximum no. of measurement types that can be reported by a single report. The value is <65535>. |

## 8.3 Information Element definitions

### 8.3.1 General

When specifying information elements which are to be represented by bit strings, if not otherwise specifically stated in the semantics description of the concerned IE or elsewhere, the following principle applies with regards to the ordering of bits:

-	The first bit (leftmost bit) contains the most significant bit (MSB);

-	The last bit (rightmost bit) contains the least significant bit (LSB);

-	When importing bit strings from other specifications, the first bit of the bit string contains the first bit of the concerned information.

### 8.3.2 RAN Function Name

This IE is defined in [12] clause 6.2.2.1.

### 8.3.3 RIC Style Type

This IE is defined in [12] clause 6.2.2.2.

### 8.3.4 RIC Style Name

This IE is defined in [12] clause 6.2.2.3.

### 8.3.5 RIC Format Type

This IE is defined in [12] clause 6.2.2.4.

### 8.3.6 Void

### 8.3.7 Void

### 8.3.8 Granularity Period

This IE defines the measurement collection interval within a reporting period.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Granularity Period | M |  | INTEGER (1..4294967295) | Measurement collection interval expressed in unit of 1 millisecond. |

### 8.3.9 Measurement Type Name

This IE defines the name of a given measurement type.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Measurement Name | M |  | PrintableString(SIZE(1.. 150, ...)) | One of the measurement names specified in TS 28.552 [4], TS 32.425 [8], or clause 7.10. The subcounters are represented by the Measurement Labels defined in 8.3.11. |

### 8.3.10 Measurement Type ID

This IE defines the identifier of a given measurement type.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Measurement ID | M |  | INTEGER (1.. 65535, ...) |  |

### 8.3.11 Measurement Label

This IE defines values of necessary subcounters applicable to an associated measurement type.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| No Label | O |  | ENUMERATED (true, …) | Indicates the associated measurement type without any subcounter. If included, other IEs in 8.3.11 shall not be included in the same Measurement Label (and vice versa). |
| PLMN ID | O |  | 8.3.15 | Represents the PLMN subcounter |
| Slice ID | O |  | 8.3.14 | Represents the SNSSAI subcounter. OCTET STRING of length 1 octet shall be provided for matching the SST value only. OCTET STRING of length 4 octets shall be provided for matching the SST + SD value. OCTET STRING of length 4 octets with the last 3 octets as 0xFFFFFF shall be provided if a S-NSSAI without SD value has to be explicitly matched. See 3GPP TS 23.003 [20] clause 28.4.2. |
| 5QI | O |  | 8.3.17 | Represents the 5QI subcounter |
| QFI | O |  | 8.3.21 | Represents the QFI subcounter |
| QCI | O |  | 8.3.18 | Represents the QCI subcounter |
| QCImax | O |  | 8.3.18 | Used only when the name of the associated measurement type ends with ‘_Filter’ |
| QCImin | O |  | 8.3.18 | Used only when the name of the associated measurement type ends with ‘_Filter’ |
| ARPmax | O |  | INTEGER (1.. 15, …) | Used only when the name of the associated measurement type ends with ‘_Filter’ |
| ARPmin | O |  | INTEGER (1.. 15, …) | Used only when the name of the associated measurement type ends with ‘_Filter’ |
| Bitrate Range | O |  | INTEGER (1.. 65535, ...) | Used only when the name of the associated measurement type ends with ‘_Filter’ |
| Layer at MU-MIMO | O |  | INTEGER (1.. 65535, ...) | Represents the MIMO layer subcounter |
| Sum | O |  | ENUMERATED (true, …) | Sum is calculated as cumulative sum from the start of the measurement. |
| Distribution Bin X | O |  | INTEGER (1.. 65535, ...) | An index of Bin X. Only applicable to distribution type measurement information. |
| Distribution Bin Y | O |  | INTEGER (1.. 65535, ...) | An index of Bin Y. Only applicable to distribution type measurement information. This IE may be present only when Distribution Bin X is present. |
| Distribution Bin Z | O |  | INTEGER (1.. 65535, ...) | An index of Bin Z. Only applicable to distribution type measurement information. This IE may be present only when Distribution Bin X and Distribution Bin Y are present. |
| Precedent Label Override Indication | O |  | ENUMERATED (true, …) | Indicates that subcounters and their values of the precedent label applies in the same way except for the included subcounters. For included subcounters, new values shall apply. |
| Start End Indication | O |  | ENUMERATED (start, end, …) | Used to indicate a range of values. If “start” is used for a label, the subsequent label should include this IE with “end”.  If included together with Distribution Bin type subcounter(s), it can be used to indicate a range of multi-dimensional values in the ascending order of numbers from Bin Z (if included), then from Bin Y (if included), then from Bin X (if included). In this case, information of a label with “start” should be identical to that of the subsequent label with “end”, except Distribution Bin type subcounter(s) used. Otherwise (included together with subcounter other than Distribution Bin type subcounter), it can be used to indicate one-dimensional range of values in the ascending order, and information of a label with “start” should be identical to that of the subsequent label with “end”, except only one subcounter. |
| Min | O |  | ENUMERATED (true, …) | Minimum of the measured values over a granularity period. |
| Max | O |  | ENUMERATED (true, …) | Maximum of the measured values over a granularity period. |
| Avg | O |  | ENUMERATED (true, …) | Average of the measured values over a granularity period. |
| SSB Index | O |  | INTEGER (1.. 65535, ...) | Represents the SSB subcounter |
| Non-GoB Beamforming Mode Index | O |  | INTEGER (1.. 65535, ...) | Represents the Non- Grid of Beams (Non-GoB) beamforming mode subcounter [21]. The index is used for Non-GoB beamforming optimization for 5G mMIMO deployments. Each BF mode implies a vendor-specific proprietary Non-GoB BF algorithm that are not standardized [i.1], for which each E2 Node, who supports the Non-GoB beamforming optimization feature, provides the number of different Non-GoB BF mode(s) supported by its scheduler indexed from 1 to n. The AI/ML model for Non-GoB beamforming optimization is trained by data and measurements related to each BF mode and/or MIMO mode, for which the trained AI/ML model, based on collected data, configures the E2 Node with the best inferred Non-GoB BF mode index to be used for each UE, where such configuration could be done separately for the case of Single User- and/or Multi-user MIMO [21]. |
| MIMO Mode Index | O |  | INTEGER (1..2, …) | Represents the MIMO mode subcounter. Value = 1 means the SU (single-user) MIMO mode. Value 2 means the MU (multi-user) MIMO mode. |
| CGI | O |  | 8.3.20 | Represents the subcounter for a specific cell, e.g., a neighboring cell of the subscribed E2 Node. |
| Beam ID | O |  | 8.3.29 | Represents the beam subcounter, where the beam belongs to the subscribed E2 Node. An E2 Node level measurement can be obtained at beam-level using this subcounter. |

### 8.3.12 Time Stamp

This IE contains UTC time information in picosecond-level. In this version of specification, the value is rounded in millisecond.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Time Stamp | M |  | OCTET STRING (SIZE(8)) | Encoded in the same format as the 64-bit timestamp format as defined in clause 6 of IETF RFC 5905 [13]. |

### 8.3.13 Void

### 8.3.14 S-NSSAI

This IE is defined in [12] clause 6.2.3.12.

### 8.3.15 PLMN Identity

This IE is defined in [12] clause 6.2.3.1.

### 8.3.16 Void

### 8.3.17 5QI

This IE is defined in [12] clause 6.2.3.13.

### 8.3.18 QCI

This IE is defined in [12] clause 6.2.3.14.

### 8.3.19 Void

### 8.3.20 Cell Global ID

This IE is defined in [12] clause 6.2.2.5.

### 8.3.21 QFI

This IE is defined in [12] clause 6.2.3.15.

### 8.3.22 Test Condition Information

This IE defines a test condition for identifying UEs.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| CHOICE Test Condition Type | M |  |  |  |
| >GBR |  | ENUMERATED (true, …) | Identifies UEs with the GBR QoS flows or within the specified bitrate range. The definition of GBR QoS flow is in TS 23.501 [14]. |  |
| >AMBR |  | ENUMERATED (true, …) | Identifies UEs with the Session-AMBR within the specified bitrate range. The definition of Session-AMBR is in TS 23.501 [14]. |  |
| >IsStat |  | ENUMERATED (true, …) | This IE is not used in this version of specification. |  |
| >IsCatM |  | ENUMERATED (true, …) | This IE is not used in this version of specification. |  |
| >DL RSRP |  | ENUMERATED (true, …) | Identifies UEs with the latest reported DL RSRP measurement for this cell within the specified range. For EUTRAN, the definition of DL RSRP is in TS 36.214 [15]. For NR, the definition of DL RSRP is in TS 38.215 [16]. |  |
| >DL RSRQ |  | ENUMERATED (true, …) | Identifies UEs with the latest reported DL RSRQ measurement for this cell within the specified range. For EUTRAN, the definition of DL RSRP is in TS 36.214 [15].  For NR, the definition of DL RSRQ is in TS 38.215 [16]. |  |
| >UL RSRP |  | ENUMERATED (true, …) | Identifies UEs with the latest measured UL SRS-RSRP for this cell by the E2 Node within the specific range. The definition of UL SRS-RSRP is defined in TS 38.215 [16]. The mapping of measured quantity is described similarly to DL RSRP using the TS 38.133 [17] Table 10.1.6.1-1. |  |
| >CQI |  | ENUMERATED (true, …) | Identifies UEs with the latest reported wideband CQI for this cell in the Layer 1 within the specific range. The definition of wideband CQI is defined in TS 38.214 [18]. |  |
| >5QI |  | ENUMERATED (true, …) | Identifies UEs with the 5QI of QoS flows within the specified range. The definition of 5QI is in TS 23.501 [14]. |  |
| >QCI |  | ENUMERATED (true, …) | Identifies UEs with the QCI of Service Data Flows within the specified range. The definition of QCI is in TS 23.203 [19]. |  |
| >S-NSSAI |  | ENUMERATED (true, …) | Identifies UEs with the S-NSSAI [12] within the specified range. OCTET STRING of length 1 octet shall be provided for matching the SST value only. OCTET STRING of length 4 octets shall be provided for matching the SST + SD value. OCTET STRING of length 4 octets with the last 3 octets as 0xFFFFFF shall be provided if a S-NSSAI without SD value has to be explicitly matched. See 3GPP TS 23.003 [20] clause 28.4.2. |  |
| Test Condition | O |  | ENUMERATED (equal, greaterthan, lessthan, contains, present, …) |  |
| Test Condition Value | O |  | 8.3.23 |  |

### 8.3.23 Test Condition Value

This IE defines the target value for a particular Test Condition Type IE element.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| CHOICE Test Value | M |  |  |  |
| >INTEGER |  | INTEGER |  |  |
| >ENUMERATED |  | INTEGER |  |  |
| >BOOLEAN |  | BOOLEAN |  |  |
| >BIT STRING |  | BIT STRING |  |  |
| >OCTET STRING |  | OCTET STRING |  |  |
| >PRINTABLE STRING |  | PrintableString |  |  |
| >REAL |  | REAL |  |  |

### 8.3.24 UE ID

This IE is defined in [12] clause 6.2.2.6.

### 8.3.25 Logical OR

This IE indicates a logical “or” connection of the current condition to the next condition in a given sequence of conditions.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Logical OR | M |  | ENUMERATED (true, …) | If set to “true”, logical connection to the next condition is “or”. |

### 8.3.26 Bin Range Definition

This IE defines the value range of bins for distribution type measurements.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| List of Bins for Distribution Bin X |  | 1.. <maxnoofBin> |  |  |
| >Bin Index | M |  | INTEGER (1.. 65535, ..) | Index of a bin to be used when subscribed |
| >Start Value | M |  | 8.3.27 |  |
| >End Value | M |  | 8.3.27 |  |
| List of Bins for Distribution Bin Y |  | 0.. <maxnoofBin> | Shall not be included for a distribution measurement type that doesn't use Distribution Bin Y. |  |
| >Bin Index | M |  | INTEGER (1.. 65535, ..) | Index of a bin to be used when subscribed |
| >Start Value | M |  | 8.3.27 |  |
| >End Value | M |  | 8.3.27 |  |
| List of Bins for Distribution Bin Z |  | 0.. <maxnoofBin> | Shall not be included for a distribution measurement type that doesn't use Distribution Bin Z. |  |
| >Bin Index | M |  | INTEGER (1.. 65535, ..) | Index of a bin to be used when subscribed |
| >Start Value | M |  | 8.3.27 |  |
| >End Value | M |  | 8.3.27 |  |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxnoofBin | Maximum no. of bins that can be defined for a distribution type measurement. Value is <65535>. |

### 8.3.27 Bin Range Value

This IE defines either the start or end value of a bin for distribution type measurements.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| CHOICE Bin Range Value | M |  |  |  |
| >INTEGER |  | INTEGER |  |  |
| >REAL |  | REAL |  |  |

### 8.3.28 Measured Value Reporting Condition

This IE defines a test condition for reporting measured values when satisfied.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Test Condition | M |  | ENUMERATED (equal, greaterthan, lessthan, contains, present, …) |  |
| Test Condition Value | M |  | 8.3.23 |  |

### 8.3.29 Beam ID

This IE is defined in [12] clause 6.2.2.16.

### 8.3.30 Job ID

This IE indicates the identifier of individual reports when using integrated level services.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Job ID | M |  | INTEGER (1.. maxnoofJobs) |  |

### 8.3.31 Event Formula

This IE defines the logical structure of an event condition that determines whether an event trigger is satisfied. This IE consists of an expression on the left-hand side, a logical operator in the middle (defining the type of comparison), and an expression on the right-hand side. The event is considered triggered when the comparison evaluates as true.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Event Left Expression | M |  | 8.3.32 Event Expression | Left-hand side of the event formula |
| Event Logical Operator | M |  | ENUMERATED (equal, greaterthan, lessthan, …) | Logical operator for comparison |
| Event Right Expression | M |  | 8.3.32 Event Expression | Right-hand side of the event formula |

### 8.3.32 Event Expression

This IE defines an event expression with measurement-based or value-based parameters.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Sequence of Parameters |  | 1.. <maxnoofEventParameters> |  |  |
| >CHOICE Parameter Type | M |  | Specifies whether a parameter is a measurement or a value |  |
| >>Measurement |  |  |  |  |
| >>>Measurement Definition | M |  | 8.3.33 Event Measurement |  |
| >>>Window Definition | O |  | 8.3.34 Window Expression | Applies a window to aggregate multiple samples |
| >>Value |  |  |  |  |
| >>>Test Value | M |  | 8.3.23	Test Condition Value |  |
| >Next Mathematical Operator | O |  | ENUMERATED (plus, minus, product, divide-by, …) | Operators to combine parameters |
| Aggregation Function | O |  | 8.3.35 Aggregation Function Type |  |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxnoofEventParameters | Maximum number of event parameters. Value is <65535>. |

### 8.3.33 Event Measurement

This IE identifies the specific measurement(s), whose measured values are used in the event expression evaluation.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| CHOICE Measurement Type | M |  |  |  |
| >Measurement Name |  | 8.3.9 Measurement Type Name |  |  |
| >Measurement ID |  | 8.3.10 Measurement Type ID |  |  |
| List of Labels |  | 1.. <maxnoofLabelInfo> |  |  |
| >Label Information | M |  | 8.3.11 Measurement Label |  |
| Cell Global ID | O |  | 8.3.20 Cell Global ID |  |

| Range bound | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| maxnoofLabelInfo | Maximum no. of measurements values that can be reported for a single measurement type. Value is <2147483647>. |

### 8.3.34 Window Expression

This IE defines windowing parameters for aggregating multiple measurement samples.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Window Size | M |  | INTEGER (1..100) | Number of samples to be considered |
| Aggregation Function | M |  | 8.3.35 Aggregation Function Type |  |

### 8.3.35 Aggregation Function Type

This IE defines the mathematical operations to be applied for multiple values.

| IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and reference | Semantics description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Aggregation Function Type | M |  | ENUMERATED (min, max, avg, sum, …) |  |

## 8.4 Information Element Abstract Syntax (with ASN.1)

### 8.4.1 General

E2SM-KPM ASN.1 definition conforms to ITU-T Rec. X.680 [5] and ITU-T Rec. X.681 [6].

Sub clause 8.4.2 presents the Abstract Syntax of the E2SM information elements to be carried within the E2AP [3] protocol messages with ASN.1. In case there is contradiction between the ASN.1 definition in this sub clause and the tabular format in sub clause 8.2 and 8.3, the ASN.1 shall take precedence, except for the definition of conditions for the presence of conditional elements, in which the tabular format shall take precedence.

If an E2SM information element carried as an OCTET STRING in an E2AP [3] message that is not constructed as defined above is received, this shall be considered as Abstract Syntax Error, and the message shall be handled as defined for Abstract Syntax Error in clause 9.

### 8.4.2 Information Element definitions

-- ASN1START

-- **************************************************************

-- E2SM-KPM Information Element Definitions

-- **************************************************************

E2SM-KPM-IEs {

iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1) private(4) enterprise(1) 53148 e2(1) version2(2) e2sm(2) e2sm-KPMMON-IEs (2)}

DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::=

BEGIN

-- **************************************************************

--   IEs

-- **************************************************************

IMPORTS

CGI,

FiveQI,

PLMNIdentity,

QCI,

QosFlowIdentifier,

RANfunction-Name,

RIC-Format-Type,

RIC-Style-Name,

RIC-Style-Type,

S-NSSAI,

UEID,

Beam-ID

FROM E2SM-COMMON-IEs;

TimeStamp ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(8))

AggregationFunctionType ::= ENUMERATED {min, max, avg, sum, ...}

BinIndex ::= INTEGER (1.. 65535, ...)

BinRangeValue ::= CHOICE {

valueInt				INTEGER,

valueReal			REAL,

...

}

EventEvaluationPeriod ::= INTEGER (1.. 4294967295)

EventExpression ::= SEQUENCE {

paramList			EventParameterList,

aggreFunc			AggregationFunctionType				OPTIONAL,

...

}

EventFormula ::= SEQUENCE {

leftExpr				EventExpression,

logicOp				EventLogicalOperator,

rightExpr			EventExpression,

...

}

EventLogicalOperator ::= ENUMERATED {equal, greaterthan, lessthan, ...}

EventMeasurementDefinition ::= SEQUENCE {

measType							MeasurementType,

labelInfoList					LabelInfoList,

cellGlobalID					CGI							OPTIONAL,

...

}

EventParameterMeasurement ::= SEQUENCE {

measDef				EventMeasurementDefinition,

windowFunc			EventWindowDefinition				OPTIONAL,

...

}

EventParameterValue ::= SEQUENCE {

value					TestCond-Value							OPTIONAL,

...

}

EventWindowDefinition ::= SEQUENCE {

windowSize			WindowSize,

aggreFunc			AggregationFunctionType,

...

}

JobID ::= INTEGER (1.. 65535)

GranularityPeriod ::= INTEGER (1.. 4294967295)

LogicalOR ::= ENUMERATED {true, ...}

MeasurementType ::= CHOICE {

measName				MeasurementTypeName,

measID				MeasurementTypeID,

...

}

MeasurementTypeName ::= PrintableString(SIZE(1.. 150, ...))

MeasurementTypeID ::= INTEGER (1.. 65536, ...)

MeasurementLabel ::= SEQUENCE {

noLabel					ENUMERATED {true, ...}				OPTIONAL,

plmnID					PLMNIdentity							OPTIONAL,

sliceID					S-NSSAI									OPTIONAL,

fiveQI					FiveQI									OPTIONAL,

qFI						QosFlowIdentifier						OPTIONAL,

qCI						QCI										OPTIONAL,

qCImax					QCI										OPTIONAL,

qCImin					QCI										OPTIONAL,

aRPmax					INTEGER (1.. 15, ...)				OPTIONAL,

aRPmin					INTEGER (1.. 15, ...)				OPTIONAL,

bitrateRange			INTEGER (1.. 65535, ...)			OPTIONAL,

layerMU-MIMO			INTEGER (1.. 65535, ...)			OPTIONAL,

sUM						ENUMERATED {true, ...}				OPTIONAL,

distBinX					INTEGER (1.. 65535, ...)			OPTIONAL,

distBinY					INTEGER (1.. 65535, ...)			OPTIONAL,

distBinZ					INTEGER (1.. 65535, ...)			OPTIONAL,

preLabelOverride		ENUMERATED {true, ...}				OPTIONAL,

startEndInd				ENUMERATED {start, end, ...}		OPTIONAL,

min						ENUMERATED {true, ...}				OPTIONAL,

max						ENUMERATED {true, ...}				OPTIONAL,

avg						ENUMERATED {true, ...}				OPTIONAL,

...,

ssbIndex					INTEGER (1.. 65535, ...)			OPTIONAL,

nonGoB-BFmode-Index	INTEGER (1.. 65535, ...)			OPTIONAL,

mIMO-mode-Index		INTEGER (1.. 2, ...)					OPTIONAL,

cellGlobalID			CGI										OPTIONAL,

beamID					Beam-ID									OPTIONAL

}

TestCondInfo ::= SEQUENCE{

testType				TestCond-Type,

testExpr				TestCond-Expression						OPTIONAL,

testValue			TestCond-Value								OPTIONAL,

...

}

NextMathOperator ::= ENUMERATED {plus, minus, product, divide-by, ...}

TestCond-Type ::= CHOICE{

gBR					ENUMERATED {true, ...},

aMBR					ENUMERATED {true, ...},

isStat				ENUMERATED {true, ...},

isCatM				ENUMERATED {true, ...},

rSRP					ENUMERATED {true, ...},

rSRQ					ENUMERATED {true, ...},

...,

ul-rSRP				ENUMERATED {true, ...},

cQI					ENUMERATED {true, ...},

fiveQI				ENUMERATED {true, ...},

qCI					ENUMERATED {true, ...},

sNSSAI				ENUMERATED {true, ...}

}

TestCond-Expression ::= ENUMERATED {

equal,

greaterthan,

lessthan,

contains,

present,

...

}

TestCond-Value ::= CHOICE{

valueInt				INTEGER,

valueEnum			INTEGER,

valueBool			BOOLEAN,

valueBitS			BIT STRING,

valueOctS			OCTET STRING,

valuePrtS			PrintableString,

...,

valueReal			REAL

}

MultiReportApproach ::= ENUMERATED {

single,

multiple,

...

}

WindowSize ::= INTEGER (1.. 100)

-- **************************************************************

--   Lists

-- **************************************************************

maxnoofCells					INTEGER ::= 16384

maxnoofRICStyles				INTEGER ::= 63

maxnoofMeasurementInfo		INTEGER ::= 65535

maxnoofLabelInfo				INTEGER ::= 2147483647

maxnoofMeasurementRecord	INTEGER ::= 65535

maxnoofMeasurementValue		INTEGER ::= 2147483647

maxnoofConditionInfo			INTEGER ::= 32768

maxnoofUEID						INTEGER ::= 65535

maxnoofConditionInfoPerSub	INTEGER ::= 32768

maxnoofUEIDPerSub				INTEGER ::= 65535

maxnoofUEMeasReport			INTEGER ::= 65535

maxnoofBin						INTEGER ::= 65535

maxnoofJobs						INTEGER ::= 65535

maxnoofEventParameters		INTEGER ::= 65535

maxnoofEventTrigger			INTEGER ::= 65535

BinRangeDefinition ::= SEQUENCE {

binRangeListX		BinRangeList,

binRangeListY		BinRangeList			OPTIONAL -- This IE shall not be present for a distribution measurement type that doesn't use Distribution Bin Y --,

binRangeListZ		BinRangeList			OPTIONAL -- This IE shall not be present for a distribution measurement type that doesn't use Distribution Bin Z --,

...

}

BinRangeList ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofBin)) OF BinRangeItem

BinRangeItem ::= SEQUENCE {

binIndex				BinIndex,

startValue			BinRangeValue,

endValue				BinRangeValue,

...

}

DistMeasurementBinRangeList ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofMeasurementInfo)) OF DistMeasurementBinRangeItem

DistMeasurementBinRangeItem ::= SEQUENCE {

measType				MeasurementType,

binRangeDef			BinRangeDefinition,

...

}

EventParameterList ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofEventParameters)) OF EventParameterItem

EventParameterItem ::= SEQUENCE {

paramType					CHOICE {

measurement					EventParameterMeasurement,

value							EventParameterValue,

...

},

nextMathOp					NextMathOperator				OPTIONAL,

...

}

EventTrigerList ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofEventTrigger)) OF EventTriggerItem

EventTriggerItem ::= SEQUENCE {

eventCond				EventFormula,

eventEvalPeriod		EventEvaluationPeriod		OPTIONAL,

logicalOR				LogicalOR						OPTIONAL,

...

}

MeasurementInfoList ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofMeasurementInfo)) OF MeasurementInfoItem

MeasurementInfoItem ::= SEQUENCE {

measType						MeasurementType,

labelInfoList				LabelInfoList,

...,

matchCondReportList		MatchCondReportList				OPTIONAL

}

LabelInfoList ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofLabelInfo)) OF LabelInfoItem

LabelInfoItem ::= SEQUENCE {

measLabel			MeasurementLabel,

...

}

MatchCondReportList ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofConditionInfo)) OF MatchCondReportItem

MatchCondReportItem ::= SEQUENCE {

measValueReportCond			MeasValueReportCond,

logicalOR						LogicalOR						OPTIONAL,

...

}

MeasValueReportCond ::= SEQUENCE {

testExpr				MeasValueTestCond-Expression,

testValue			TestCond-Value,

...

}

MeasValueTestCond-Expression ::= ENUMERATED {

equal,

greaterthan,

lessthan,

contains,

present,

...

}

MeasurementData ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofMeasurementRecord)) OF MeasurementDataItem

MeasurementDataItem ::= SEQUENCE {

measRecord				MeasurementRecord,

incompleteFlag			ENUMERATED {true, ...}					OPTIONAL,

...

}

MeasurementRecord ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofMeasurementValue)) OF MeasurementRecordItem

MeasurementRecordItem ::= CHOICE {

integer				INTEGER (0.. 4294967295),

real					REAL,

noValue				NULL,

...,

notSatisfied		NULL

}

MeasurementInfo-Action-List ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofMeasurementInfo)) OF MeasurementInfo-Action-Item

MeasurementInfo-Action-Item ::= SEQUENCE {

measName				MeasurementTypeName,

measID				MeasurementTypeID				OPTIONAL,

...,

binRangeDef			BinRangeDefinition			OPTIONAL

}

MeasurementCondList ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofMeasurementInfo)) OF MeasurementCondItem

MeasurementCondItem ::= SEQUENCE {

measType				MeasurementType,

matchingCond		MatchingCondList,

...,

binRangeDef			BinRangeDefinition			OPTIONAL

}

MeasurementCondUEidList ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofMeasurementInfo)) OF MeasurementCondUEidItem

MeasurementCondUEidItem ::= SEQUENCE {

measType					MeasurementType,

matchingCond			MatchingCondList,

matchingUEidList		MatchingUEidList			OPTIONAL,

...,

matchingUEidPerGP		MatchingUEidPerGP			OPTIONAL

}

MatchingCondList ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofConditionInfo)) OF MatchingCondItem

MatchingCondItem ::= SEQUENCE {

matchingCondChoice	MatchingCondItem-Choice,

logicalOR				LogicalOR						OPTIONAL,

...

}

MatchingCondItem-Choice ::= CHOICE{

measLabel			MeasurementLabel,

testCondInfo		TestCondInfo,

...

}

MatchingUEidList ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofUEID)) OF MatchingUEidItem

MatchingUEidItem ::= SEQUENCE{

ueID					UEID,

...

}

MatchingUEidPerGP ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofMeasurementRecord)) OF MatchingUEidPerGP-Item

MatchingUEidPerGP-Item ::= SEQUENCE{

matchedPerGP				CHOICE{

noUEmatched 				ENUMERATED {true, ...},

oneOrMoreUEmatched		MatchingUEidList-PerGP,

...

},

...

}

MatchingUEidList-PerGP ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofUEID)) OF MatchingUEidItem-PerGP

MatchingUEidItem-PerGP ::= SEQUENCE{

ueID					UEID,

...

}

MatchingUeCondPerSubList ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofConditionInfoPerSub)) OF MatchingUeCondPerSubItem

MatchingUeCondPerSubItem ::= SEQUENCE{

testCondInfo		TestCondInfo,

...,

logicalOR			LogicalOR				OPTIONAL

}

MatchingUEidPerSubList ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(2..maxnoofUEIDPerSub)) OF MatchingUEidPerSubItem

MatchingUEidPerSubItem ::= SEQUENCE{

ueID					UEID,

...

}

MultiReportActionDefinitionList ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofJobs)) OF MultiReportActionDefinitionItem

MultiReportActionDefinitionItem ::=SEQUENCE {

jobID					JobID,

jobActionDefinition		E2SM-KPM-ActionDefinition-Fundamental			OPTIONAL,

jobCellGlobalID			CGI										OPTIONAL,

jobUEID					UEID											OPTIONAL,

jobMatchingUEidList		MatchingUEidPerSubList				OPTIONAL,

...

}

MultiReportIndicationMessageList ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofJobs)) OF MultiReportIndicationMessageItem

MultiReportIndicationMessageItem ::=SEQUENCE {

jobID					JobID,

indicationMessage		E2SM-KPM-IndicationMessage-Fundamental,

...

}

UEMeasurementReportList ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofUEMeasReport)) OF UEMeasurementReportItem

UEMeasurementReportItem ::= SEQUENCE{

ueID				UEID,

measReport		E2SM-KPM-IndicationMessage-Format1,

...

}

-- **************************************************************

-- E2SM-KPM Service Model IEs

-- **************************************************************

-- **************************************************************

--   Event Trigger Definition OCTET STRING contents

-- **************************************************************

E2SM-KPM-EventTriggerDefinition ::= SEQUENCE{

eventDefinition-formats			CHOICE{

eventDefinition-Format1			E2SM-KPM-EventTriggerDefinition-Format1,

...,

eventDefinition-Format2			E2SM-KPM-EventTriggerDefinition-Format2

},

...

}

E2SM-KPM-EventTriggerDefinition-Format1 ::= SEQUENCE{

reportingPeriod					INTEGER (1.. 4294967295),

...

}

E2SM-KPM-EventTriggerDefinition-Format2 ::= SEQUENCE {

eventTriggerList					EventTrigerList,

...

}

-- **************************************************************

--   Action Definition OCTET STRING contents

-- **************************************************************

E2SM-KPM-ActionDefinition ::= SEQUENCE{

ric-Style-Type					RIC-Style-Type,

actionDefinition-formats 	CHOICE{

actionDefinition-Format1		E2SM-KPM-ActionDefinition-Format1,

actionDefinition-Format2		E2SM-KPM-ActionDefinition-Format2,

actionDefinition-Format3		E2SM-KPM-ActionDefinition-Format3,

...,

actionDefinition-Format4		E2SM-KPM-ActionDefinition-Format4,

actionDefinition-Format5		E2SM-KPM-ActionDefinition-Format5,

actionDefinition-Format255		E2SM-KPM-ActionDefinition-Format255

},

...

}

E2SM-KPM-ActionDefinition-Fundamental ::= SEQUENCE{

actionDefinitionFundamental-formats		CHOICE{

actionDefinition-Format1		E2SM-KPM-ActionDefinition-Format1,

actionDefinition-Format2		E2SM-KPM-ActionDefinition-Format2,

actionDefinition-Format3		E2SM-KPM-ActionDefinition-Format3,

actionDefinition-Format4		E2SM-KPM-ActionDefinition-Format4,

actionDefinition-Format5		E2SM-KPM-ActionDefinition-Format5,

...

},

...

}

E2SM-KPM-ActionDefinition-Format1 ::= SEQUENCE {

measInfoList					MeasurementInfoList,

granulPeriod					GranularityPeriod,

cellGlobalID					CGI							OPTIONAL,

...,

distMeasBinRangeInfo			DistMeasurementBinRangeList		OPTIONAL

}

E2SM-KPM-ActionDefinition-Format2 ::= SEQUENCE {

ueID								UEID,

subscriptInfo					E2SM-KPM-ActionDefinition-Format1,

...

}

E2SM-KPM-ActionDefinition-Format3 ::= SEQUENCE {

measCondList					MeasurementCondList,

granulPeriod					GranularityPeriod,

cellGlobalID					CGI							OPTIONAL,

...

}

E2SM-KPM-ActionDefinition-Format4 ::= SEQUENCE {

matchingUeCondList			MatchingUeCondPerSubList,

subscriptionInfo				E2SM-KPM-ActionDefinition-Format1,

...

}

E2SM-KPM-ActionDefinition-Format5 ::= SEQUENCE {

matchingUEidList				MatchingUEidPerSubList,

subscriptionInfo				E2SM-KPM-ActionDefinition-Format1,

...

}

E2SM-KPM-ActionDefinition-Format255 ::= SEQUENCE {

multiReportActionDefinitionList		MultiReportActionDefinitionList,

multiReportApproach					MultiReportApproach,

commonActionDefinition				E2SM-KPM-ActionDefinition-Fundamental		OPTIONAL,

...

}

-- **************************************************************

--   Indication Header OCTET STRING contents

-- **************************************************************

E2SM-KPM-IndicationHeader ::= SEQUENCE{

indicationHeader-formats		CHOICE{

indicationHeader-Format1		E2SM-KPM-IndicationHeader-Format1,

...

},

...

}

E2SM-KPM-IndicationHeader-Format1 ::= SEQUENCE{

colletStartTime				TimeStamp,

fileFormatversion				PrintableString (SIZE (0..15), ...)		OPTIONAL,

senderName						PrintableString (SIZE (0..400), ...)	OPTIONAL,

senderType						PrintableString (SIZE (0..8), ...)		OPTIONAL,

vendorName						PrintableString (SIZE (0..32), ...)		OPTIONAL,

...,

jobID								JobID												OPTIONAL

}

-- **************************************************************

--   Indication Message OCTET STRING contents

-- **************************************************************

E2SM-KPM-IndicationMessage ::= SEQUENCE{

indicationMessage-formats		CHOICE{

indicationMessage-Format1		E2SM-KPM-IndicationMessage-Format1,

indicationMessage-Format2		E2SM-KPM-IndicationMessage-Format2,

...,

indicationMessage-Format3		E2SM-KPM-IndicationMessage-Format3,

indicationMessage-Format255		E2SM-KPM-IndicationMessage-Format255

},

...

}

E2SM-KPM-IndicationMessage-Fundamental ::= SEQUENCE{

indicationMessageFundamental-formats 	CHOICE{

indicationMessage-Format1		E2SM-KPM-IndicationMessage-Format1,

indicationMessage-Format2		E2SM-KPM-IndicationMessage-Format2,

indicationMessage-Format3		E2SM-KPM-IndicationMessage-Format3,

...

},

...

}

E2SM-KPM-IndicationMessage-Format1 ::= SEQUENCE {

measData							MeasurementData,

measInfoList					MeasurementInfoList						OPTIONAL,

granulPeriod					GranularityPeriod 						OPTIONAL,

...

}

E2SM-KPM-IndicationMessage-Format2 ::= SEQUENCE {

measData							MeasurementData,

measCondUEidList				MeasurementCondUEidList,

granulPeriod					GranularityPeriod 						OPTIONAL,

...

}

E2SM-KPM-IndicationMessage-Format3 ::= SEQUENCE {

ueMeasReportList				UEMeasurementReportList,

...

}

E2SM-KPM-IndicationMessage-Format255 ::= SEQUENCE {

multiReportIndicationMessageList		MultiReportIndicationMessageList,

...

}

-- ***************************************************************

--   RAN Function Definition OCTET STRING contents

-- ***************************************************************

E2SM-KPM-RANfunction-Description ::= SEQUENCE{

ranFunction-Name					RANfunction-Name,

ric-EventTriggerStyle-List		SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofRICStyles)) OF RIC-EventTriggerStyle-Item 		OPTIONAL,

ric-ReportStyle-List				SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofRICStyles)) OF RIC-ReportStyle-Item 				OPTIONAL,

...,

ric-IntegratedReportStyle-List		SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofRICStyles)) OF RIC-IntegratedReportStyle-Item 	OPTIONAL

}

RIC-EventTriggerStyle-Item ::= SEQUENCE{

ric-EventTriggerStyle-Type			RIC-Style-Type,

ric-EventTriggerStyle-Name			RIC-Style-Name,

ric-EventTriggerFormat-Type		RIC-Format-Type,

...

}

RIC-ReportStyle-Item ::= SEQUENCE{

ric-ReportStyle-Type						RIC-Style-Type,

ric-ReportStyle-Name						RIC-Style-Name,

ric-ActionFormat-Type					RIC-Format-Type,

measInfo-Action-List						MeasurementInfo-Action-List,

ric-IndicationHeaderFormat-Type		RIC-Format-Type,

ric-IndicationMessageFormat-Type		RIC-Format-Type,

...

}

RIC-IntegratedReportStyle-Item ::= SEQUENCE{

ric-ReportStyle-Type							RIC-Style-Type,

ric-ReportStyle-Name							RIC-Style-Name,

ric-ActionFormat-Type						RIC-Format-Type,

ric-IndicationHeaderFormat-Type			RIC-Format-Type,

ric-IndicationMessageFormat-Type			RIC-Format-Type,

ric-FundamentalLevelReportStyle-List	SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofRICStyles)) OF RIC-FundamentalLevelReportStyle-Item,

ric-MultipleIndividualReportingSupport	ENUMERATED{true,...}			OPTIONAL,

...

}

RIC-FundamentalLevelReportStyle-Item ::= SEQUENCE{

ric-ReportStyle-Type							RIC-Style-Type,

...

}

END

-- ASN1STOP

# 9 Handling of Unknown, Unforeseen and Erroneous Protocol Data

clause 10 of TS 36.413 [13] is applicable for the purposes of the present document.

## A.1 Background Information

The RAN function “Key Performance Measurement” is used to provide RIC Service exposure of the performance measurement logical function of the E2 Nodes. Based on the O-RAN deployment architecture, available measurements could be different. Figure A.1-1 shows the target deployment architecture for E2SM-KPM.

Figure A.1-1 E2SM-KPM Architecture

For each logical function the E2 Node shall use the RAN Function Definition IE to declare the list of available measurements and a set of supported RIC Services (REPORT).


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG3.TS.E2SM-LLC-R004-v01.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG3.TS.E2SM-LLC-R004-v01.00 Technical Specification O-RAN Work Group 3 (Near-RT RIC and E2 Interface)"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols, and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1], O-RAN WG3.TS.E2GAP [1], O-RAN WG1.TS.OAD [2].

## 3.2 Symbols
Void

## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1], O-RAN WG3.TS.E2GAP [1], O- RAN WG1.TS.OAD [2], and the following apply. HOL Head of Line LLI Lower Layers Information PDB Packet Delay Budget SMG Spatial Multiplexing Group SPS Semi Persistent Scheduling

# 4 General

## 4.1 Procedure specification principles
The procedure specification principles defined in O-RAN WG3.TS.E2AP [3] clause 4 shall apply.

## 4.2 Forwards and backwards compatibility
The forwards and backwards compatibility of the E2 interface uses the forward and backwards compatibility compatibilities offered by the O-RAN WG3.TS.E2AP [3] protocol.

## 4.3 Specification notations
For the purposes of the present document, the following notations apply: Service when referring to a Service in the specification the SERVICE NAME is written with upper case characters and in bold followed by the word "service", e.g. REPORT service. Procedure When referring to an elementary procedure in the specification the Procedure Name is written with the first letters in each word in upper case characters followed by the word "procedure", e.g. Handover Preparation procedure. Message When referring to a message in the specification the MESSAGE NAME is written with all letters in upper case characters followed by the word "message", e.g. HANDOVER REQUEST message. IE When referring to an information element (IE) in the specification the Information Element Name is written with the first letters in each word in upper case characters and all letters in Italic font followed by the abbreviation "IE", e.g. Event Trigger Condition ID IE. Value of an IE When referring to the value of an information element (IE) in the specification the "Value" is written as it is specified in the specification enclosed by quotation marks, e.g. "Value".

# 5 E2SM services
As defined in O-RAN WG3.TS.E2GAP [1], a given RAN Function offers a set of services to be exposed over the E2 (REPORT, INSERT, CONTROL, POLICY and/or QUERY) using O-RAN WG3.TS.E2AP [3] defined procedures. Each of the E2AP Procedures listed in table 5-1 contains specific E2 Node RAN Function dependent Information Elements (IEs). RAN Function specific E2AP E2AP Information Element reference Related E2AP Procedures Information Elements RIC Event Trigger Definition IE O-RAN WG3.TS.E2AP [3] clause 9.2.9 RIC Subscription RIC Subscription Modification RIC Action Definition IE O-RAN WG3.TS.E2AP [3] clause 9.2.12 RIC Subscription RIC Subscription Modification RIC Indication Header IE O-RAN WG3.TS.E2AP [3] clause 9.2.17 RIC Indication RIC Indication Message IE O-RAN WG3.TS.E2AP [3] clause 9.2.16 RIC Indication RIC Call Process ID IE O-RAN WG3.TS.E2AP [3] clause 9.2.18 RIC Indication RIC Control RIC Control Header IE O-RAN WG3.TS.E2AP [3] clause 9.2.20 RIC Control RIC Control Message IE O-RAN WG3.TS.E2AP [3] clause 9.2.19 RIC Control RIC Control Outcome IE O-RAN WG3.TS.E2AP [3] clause 9.2.25 RIC Control RIC Query Header IE O-RAN WG3.TS.E2AP [3] clause 9.2.36 RIC Query RIC Query Definition IE O-RAN WG3.TS.E2AP [3] clause 9.2.37 RIC Query RIC Query Outcome IE O-RAN WG3.TS.E2AP [3] clause 9.2.38 RIC Query RAN Function Definition IE O-RAN WG3.TS.E2AP [3] clause 9.2.23 E2 Setup RIC Service Update All of these RAN Function specific E2AP IEs are defined in O-RAN WG3.TS.E2AP [3] as “OCTET STRING”. The purpose of this specification is to define the contents of these fields for the specific RAN function "Lower Layers Control".

# 6 RAN function service model description

## 6.1 RAN function overview
For the purposes of this E2 Service Model, E2SM-LLC, the E2 Node terminating the E2 Interface is assumed to host one or more instances of the RAN Function which performs the following functionalities:
- E2 REPORT services used to expose UE related lower layers information
- E2 CONTROL services used to initiate control of UE level lower layers parameters
This E2SM specification provides a set of RAN Function exposure services described in clause 6.2 and has been prepared with the assumption that the same E2SM may be used to describe either a single RAN Function in the E2 Node handling all RAN control related call processes or more than one RAN Function in the E2 Node with each instance handling a subset of the RAN control related call processes on the E2 Node.

## 6.2 RAN function exposure services

### 6.2.1 REPORT service
The “Lower Layers Control” RAN Function provides selective support of the following REPORT services:
- UE level PHY/MAC information, used for estimating the channels
- Traffic status, used for triggering E2 Control

### 6.2.2 INSERT service
Void

### 6.2.3 CONTROL service
The “Lowe Layers Control” RAN Function provides selective support of the following CONTROL services:
- UE level control of handling the scheduling of specific logical channels
- UE level control of parameters for scheduling transmissions

### 6.2.4 POLICY service
Void

### 6.2.5 QUERY service
Void

## 6.3 REPORT service description
The E2SM-LLC REPORT service requirements defined in Clause 6.2.1 are offered using a set of REPORT Styles. All REPORT styles are implemented using a set of IEs for Action Definition, RIC Indication Header and RIC Indication Message and have specific Event Trigger approach. The following REPORT styles are supported:
- Lower Layers Information (LLI) Copy: This REPORT style is initiated by “Lower Layers Information Event” Event
Trigger and is used to report PHY and MAC information received from UEs along with UE associated information when the event trigger conditions are satisfied.
- Lower Layers Measurements: This REPORT style is initiated by “Periodic” Event Trigger and is used to report traffic
information per logical channel per UE and to report slot timestamps when the event trigger conditions are satisfied.

## 6.4 INSERT service description
Void

## 6.5 CONTROL service description
The E2SM-LLC CONTROL service requirements defined in Clause 6.2.3 are offered using a set of CONTROL Styles. Each style corresponds to a set of “CONTROL Action”, where each “CONTROL Action” deals with a specific functionality and has a set of associated RAN parameters, provided in a mapping table. All CONTROL Service styles are implemented using a set of IEs constituting a “RIC Control Request Header” and a “RIC Control Request Message” to deliver RAN Control-related CONTROL services. A “CONTROL Action” containing one or more RAN parameters and their associated values can be sent asynchronously from the RIC to the E2 node. The following CONTROL styles are supported:
- UE level control of handling of scheduling specific logical channels
- UE level control of parameters for scheduling transmissions

## 6.6 POLICY service description
Void

## 6.7 QUERY service description
Void

# 7 RAN function description

## 7.1 RAN function definition
The E2AP [3] procedures E2 Setup and RIC Service Update are used to transport the RAN Function Description. For the specific RAN Function, the RAN Function Definition IE shall report the following information:
- RAN Function name along with associated information on E2SM definition
- Event trigger styles list along with the corresponding encoding type for each associated E2AP IE.
- RIC REPORT Service styles list along with the corresponding encoding type for each associated E2AP IE.
- RIC INSERT Service styles list along with the corresponding encoding type for each associated E2AP IE.
- RIC CONTROL Service styles list along with the corresponding encoding type for each associated E2AP IE.
- RIC POLICY Service styles list along with the corresponding encoding type for each associated E2AP IE.
- RIC QUERY Service styles list along with the corresponding encoding type for each associated E2AP IE.

## 7.2 RAN function name
RAN Function Short Name “ORAN-E2SM-LLC” RAN Function name description “Lower Layers Control” RAN Function Instance, required when and if E2 Node exposes more than one instance of a RAN Function based on this E2SM.

## 7.3 Event trigger definition styles

### 7.3.1 RIC Event Trigger Definition IE style list
RIC Style Name Supported RIC Service Style Style Description Style Report Insert Policy Type Low Layers 1 - - Triggering conditions are based on Information Event arrival of control message or PHY signal. Periodic 2 - - Triggered at specific time periods.

### 7.3.2 RIC Event Trigger Definition IE style 1: Lower Layers Information Event
This RIC Event Trigger Definition IE style is used to detect a specific control message or PHY signals received by E2 Node from a UE. The E2 Node can also be configured simultaneously to detect multiple messages and to trigger on any logical combination of the configured message events. Each message event configured can be further conditioned to be associated only for a certain UE or group of UEs as indicated by the Associated UE Info IE if included. In case that the Global Associated UE Info IE is included, the information is applied uniformly to all the message events configured and the IE shall override any Associated UE Info IE included for some message events. For each message event configured, Event Trigger Condition ID is assigned so that E2 Node can reply to Near-RT RIC in the RIC INDICATION message to inform which event(s) are the cause for triggering. This RIC Event Trigger Definition IE style uses E2SM-LLC Event Trigger Definition Format 1 IE (8.2.1.1.1).

### 7.3.3 RIC Event trigger definition IE style 2: Periodic
This RIC Event Trigger Definition IE style is used to trigger an E2 Node to send periodic reports to the Near RT-RIC at a specified time period. The event configured can be further conditioned to be associated only for a certain UE or group of UEs as indicated by the Associated UE Info IE if included. This RIC Event Trigger Definition IE style uses RIC Event Trigger Definition Format 2 IE (8.2.1.1.2).

## 7.4 Supported RIC REPORT services

### 7.4.1 REPORT service style list
RIC Style Type Style Name Style Description LLI copy This style is used to report a copy of LLI received from UE. Periodic This style is used to report the lower layers measurements collected by the E2 Node

### 7.4.2 REPORT service style 1: Lower layers information copy

#### 7.4.2.1 REPORT service style description
This REPORT Service style provides the copy of PHY and Control information received from UEs to be carried as a transparent container in the RIC Indication Message IE. This REPORT Service style is initiated by Event Trigger style 1: Lower Layers Information Event.

#### 7.4.2.2 REPORT service RIC Action Definition IE contents
The Action Definition for this service style is used to request E2 Node to report a copy of received UE specific LLI. The action definition indicates which related UE specific LLI is to be reported along with the Control message or PHY signal that triggers this report service. This REPORT Service style uses the E2SM-LLC Action Definition Format 1 IE (8.2.1.2.1).

#### 7.4.2.3 REPORT service RIC Indication Header IE contents
This REPORT Service style uses the E2SM-LLC Indication Header Format 1 IE (8.2.1.3.1)

#### 7.4.2.4 REPORT service RIC Indication Message IE contents
The REPORT Service RIC Indication Message IE carries the content of the received LLI indicated in the RIC Action Definition IE. This REPORT Service style uses the E2SM-LLC Indication Message Format 1 IE (8.2.1.4.1).

### 7.4.3 REPORT Service Style 2: Lower layers measurements

#### 7.4.3.1 REPORT Service Style description
This REPORT Service style provides UE related lower layers information. The information is carried in the RIC Indication Message IE along with an associated RIC Indication Header IE providing information related event trigger conditions. The required information to be provided is controlled using the associated RIC Action Definition IE parameters. This REPORT Service style enables the E2 Node to report:
- L1 per UE measurements including
- HARQ ACK/NACK/DTX counts
- L2 per UE information including
- PDCP and RLC buffer statuses
- Time synchronization
This REPORT Service style is initiated by Event Trigger style 2: Periodic.

#### 7.4.3.2 REPORT Service RIC Action Definition IE contents
The Action Definition for this service style indicates the set of lower layers information parameters to be reported on a periodic basis. This REPORT Service style uses the E2SM-LLC Action Definition IE Format 2 (8.2.1.2.2).

#### 7.4.3.3 REPORT Service RIC Indication Header IE contents
This REPORT Service style uses the E2SM-LLC Indication Header IE Format 1 (8.2.1.3.1).

#### 7.4.3.4 REPORT Service RIC Indication Message IE contents
The REPORT Service RIC Indication Message IE carries the requested lower layers measurements indicated in the RIC Action Definition IE. This REPORT Service style uses the E2SM-LLC Indication Message IE Format 2 (8.2.1.4.2).

## 7.5 Supported RIC INSERT services
Void

## 7.6 Supported RIC CONTROL services

### 7.6.1 CONTROL service style types
RIC Style Type Style Name Style Description Logical Channels Handling Used for taking control of scheduling specific logical channels. control Belongs to Fundamental level CONTROL Services. Scheduling parameters Used to provide scheduling related parameters to O-DU for control specific data and control flows per slot. Belongs to Fundamental level CONTROL Services. Each of the Control Service styles listed above points to adopt the following common features:
- Control Action ID: The index ID for the individual control action under a given Control Service style.
- Control Action Name: Indicates the functionality of the E2 node which is controlled by Near-RT RIC
- Control Action Description: Describes the control action and functionality of the receiving E2 Node.
The details of the individual Control Service styles are provided in subsequent sections.

### 7.6.2 CONTROL service style 1: Logical channels handling control

#### 7.6.2.1 CONTROL service style description
This CONTROL Service style provides a mechanism to directly control and monitor the handling of logical channels. Applications of this service include:
- Handover of RLC bearers’ scheduling to Near-RT RIC
The supported RAN control actions and the corresponding RAN parameters are as follows. Control Control Control Action description Is UE group- Associated Action Action Name based control IE ID action allowed DL Logical To control the handling of scheduling specific DL logical NO 8.3.25 Channels channels Handling control

#### 7.6.2.2 CONTROL service RIC Control Header IE contents
This CONTROL service RIC Control Header IE contains the RIC Style Type IE and Control Action ID IE. This CONTROL style uses E2SM-LLC Control Header Format 1 IE (8.2.1.6.1).

#### 7.6.2.3 CONTROL service RIC Control Message IE contents
This CONTROL Service RIC Control Message IE contains the sequence of RAN parameters, associated with a given Control Action within this Control Service style, controlled by the near-RT RIC along with the values for these parameters, as set by the RIC. This CONTROL style uses E2SM-LLC Control Message IE Format 1 (8.2.1.7.1).

#### 7.6.2.4 CONTROL service RIC Call Process ID IE contents
This CONTROL Service RIC Call Process ID IE is not supported for this CONTROL service style.

#### 7.6.2.5 CONTROL service RIC Control Outcome IE contents
This CONTROL Service RIC Control Outcome IE contains a list of RAN Parameters and is used to carry information concerning the outcome of executing the RIC Control Request. This CONTROL style uses E2SM-LLC Control Outcome IE Format 1 (8.2.1.8.1).

### 7.6.3 CONTROL Service Style 2: Scheduling Parameters Control

#### 7.6.3.1 CONTROL Service Style description
This CONTROL Service style provides a mechanism to directly control and monitor the application of scheduling and precoding parameters Applications of this service include:
- Served Radio Bearers scheduling parameters control
The supported RAN control actions and the corresponding RAN parameters are as follows. Control Control Action Control Action description Is UE Associated Action Name group- IE ID based control action allowed DL scheduling To control the scheduling parameters per slot NO 8.3.26 parameters control

#### 7.6.3.2 CONTROL Service RIC Control Header IE contents
This CONTROL Service RIC Control Header IE contains the RIC Style Type IE and Control Action ID IE. This CONTROL style uses E2SM-LLC Control Header Format 1 IE (8.2.1.6.1).

#### 7.6.3.3 CONTROL Service RIC Control Message IE contents
This CONTROL Service RIC Control Message IE contains the sequence of RAN parameters, associated with a given Control Action within this Control Service style, controlled by the Near-RT RIC along with the values for these parameters, as set by the RIC. This CONTROL style uses E2SM-LLC Control Message IE Format 1 (8.2.1.7.1).

#### 7.6.3.4 CONTROL Service RIC Call Process ID IE contents
This CONTROL Service RIC Call Process ID IE is not supported for this CONTROL service style.

#### 7.6.3.5 CONTROL Service RIC Control Outcome IE contents
This CONTROL Service RIC Control Outcome IE contains a list of parameters and is used to carry information concerning the outcome of executing the RIC Control Request. This CONTROL style uses E2SM-LLC Control Outcome IE Format 1 (8.2.1.8.1).

## 7.7 Supported RIC POLICY services
Void

## 7.8 Supported RIC QUERY services
Void

## 7.9 Supported RIC service styles and E2SM IE formats
specification. RIC Event Event Trigger Trigger Style Definition Format Style 1 1 Style 2 2 RIC Action Indication Indication Call Control Control Control Service Definition Header Message Process ID Header Message Outcome Style Format Format Format Format Format Format Format REPORT Style 1 1 1 1 Style 2 2 1 2 INSERT CONTROL Style 1 1 1 1 Style 2 1 1 1 POLICY RIC Service Query Query Query Style Header Definition Outcome Format Format Format QUERY

# 8 Elements for E2SM service model

## 8.1 General

## 8.2 Message functional definition and content

### 8.2.1 Messages for RIC Functional procedures

#### 8.2.1.1 RIC Event Trigger Definition IE
This information element is part of the RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST message sent by the Near-RT RIC to an E2 Node and is required for event triggers used to initiate REPORT actions. Direction: NEAR-RT RIC → E2 Node. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference CHOICE Event Trigger Format >E2SM-LLC Event Trigger M 8.2.1.1.1 Used for Event Trigger Style 1 Definition Format 1 >E2SM-LLC Event Trigger M 8.2.1.1.2 Used for Event Trigger Style 2 Definition Format 2

##### 8.2.1.1.1 E2SM-LLC Event Trigger Definition Format 1: Lower Layers Information Event
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference List of LLI for Event Trigger 1..<maxnoof LLIs> >Event Trigger Condition ID M 8.3.9 >Lower Layers Information M 8.3.15 Type >Associated UE Info O 8.3.12 Indicates applicable UE(s) for event triggering associated to each message event ("Any" UE if not included). >Logical OR O 8.3.11 Global Associated UE Info O 8.3.12 Indicates applicable UE(s) for event triggering, applied to all the message events uniformly. This IE shall override any Associated UE Info IE included for some message events. Range bound Explanation maxnoofLLIs Maximum number of LLIs in a given E2 node for which event trigger can be defined. The value is <63>.

##### 8.2.1.1.2 E2SM-LLC Event Trigger Definition Format 2: Periodic
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Reporting Period M INTEGER (1..65535) Used to indicate the event triggering period in unit of 1 millisecond Associated UE Info O 8.3.12 Indicates applicable UE(s) for event triggering ("Any" UE if not included).

#### 8.2.1.2 RIC Action Definition IE
This information element is part of the RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST message sent by the Near-RT RIC to an E2 Node. In this service model, this information element provides additional information for the nominated RIC Action. Direction: NEAR-RT RIC → E2 Node. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics reference description RIC Style Type M 8.3.3 CHOICE Action Definition M Format >E2SM-LLC Action Definition 8.2.1.2.1 Used by REPORT Format 1 Service Style 1 >E2SM-LLC Action Definition 8.2.1.2.2 Used by REPORT Format 2 Service Style 2

##### 8.2.1.2.1 E2SM-LLC Action Definition Format 1
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Lower Layers Information Type M 8.3.15

##### 8.2.1.2.2 E2SM-LLC Action Definition Format 2
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description List of Measurement to Report 1..<maxnoofMe asurementsToR eport> >Lower Layers Measurement M 8.3.16 Type Range bound Explanation maxnoofMeasurementsToReport Maximum no. of lower layers measurements supported by Action Definition Format 2. The value is <65535>.

#### 8.2.1.3 RIC Indication Header IE
This information element is part of the RIC INDICATION message sent by the E2 Node to the Near-RT RIC and is required for REPORT action. Direction: E2 Node → NEAR-RT RIC. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference CHOICE Indication Header Format >E2SM-LLC Indication M 8.2.1.3.1 Header Format 1

##### 8.2.1.3.1 E2SM-LLC Indication Header Format 1
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Event Trigger Condition ID O 8.3.9 Event Trigger Condition ID

#### 8.2.1.4 RIC Indication Message IE
This information element is part of the RIC INDICATION message sent by the E2 Node to the Near-RT RIC and is required for REPORT action. Direction: E2 Node → NEAR-RT RIC. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference CHOICE Indication Message M Format >E2SM-LLC Indication 8.2.1.4.1 Message Format 1 >E2SM-LLC Indication 8.2.1.4.2 Message Format 2

##### 8.2.1.4.1 E2SM-LLC Indication Message Format 1
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Slot Time Stamp M 8.3.18 Indicates the slot in which the latest received parameter was received by the E2 Node CHOICE Lower Layers M Information Type >SRS 8.3.19 >CSI 8.3.20

##### 8.2.1.4.2 E2SM-LLC Indication Message Format 2
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description List of Lower Layers 1..<maxnoofMea Measurements surements> >Slot Time Stamp M 8.3.18 Indicates the last slot of the collected data in the report. When the Measurement Type is ‘Slot Time Stamp’, indicates the slot at the time the message is sent. >CHOICE Lower Layers M Measurement Type >>DL RLC Buffer Status 8.3.21 >>DL PDCP Buffer Status 8.3.22 >>DL HARQ Statistics 8.3.23 >>Slot Time Stamp NULL Range bound Explanation maxnoofMeasurements Maximum number of measurements supported by Indication Message Format 2. The value is <63>.

#### 8.2.1.5 RIC CALL PROCESS ID IE
Void

#### 8.2.1.6 RIC CONTROL HEADER IE
This information element is part of the RIC CONTROL message sent by the Near-RT RIC to an E2 Node and is required for RIC Control Procedure. Direction: Near-RT RIC → E2 Node. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics reference description CHOICE Control Header Format M >E2SM-LLC Control Header Format 1 8.2.1.6.1

##### 8.2.1.6.1 E2SM-LLC Control Header Format 1
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference RIC Style Type M 8.3.3 Control Action ID M 8.3.6 Refer to clause 7.6

#### 8.2.1.7 RIC CONTROL MESSAGE IE
This information element is part of the RIC CONTROL message sent by the Near-RT RIC to an E2 Node and is required for RIC Control Procedure. Direction: Near-RT RIC → E2 Node. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics reference description CHOICE Control Message Format M >E2SM-LLC Control Message Format 1 8.2.1.7.1

##### 8.2.1.7.1 E2SM-LLC Control Message Format 1
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics reference description CHOICE Control Type M >Logical Channel Handling Control 8.3.25 Only applicable to Control Service Style 1 Action ID 1 >DL Scheduling Control 8.3.26 Only applicable to Control Service Style 2 Action ID 1

#### 8.2.1.8 RIC CONTROL OUTCOME IE
This information element is part of the RIC CONTROL ACKOWLEDGEMENT and RIC CONTROL FAILURE messages and is sent by the E2 Node to the Near-RT RIC and is required for RIC Control Procedure. Direction: E2 Node → Near-RT RIC. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics reference description CHOICE Control Outcome M Format >E2SM-LLC Control Outcome 8.2.1.8.1 Format 1

##### 8.2.1.8.1 E2SM-LLC Control Outcome Format 1
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description CHOICE Control Parameter M Type >Logical Channel Handling 8.3.24 Only applicable for Control Service Style 1 Action ID 1 >DL Scheduling Parameters 8.3.27 Only applicable for Control Service Style 2 Action ID 1

### 8.2.2 Messages for RIC global procedures

#### 8.2.2.1 RAN Function Definition IE
This information element is part of the E2 SETUP REQUEST, and RIC SERVICE UPDATE message sent by the E2 Node to the Near-RT RIC and is used to provide all required information for the Near-RT RIC to determine how a given E2 Node has been configured to support a given RAN Function specific E2SM. Direction: E2 Node → NEAR-RT RIC. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference RAN Function Name M 8.3.2 RAN Function Definition for EVENT O 8.2.2.2 TRIGGER RAN Function Definition for REPORT O 8.2.2.3 RAN Function Definition for CONTROL O 8.2.2.4

#### 8.2.2.2 RAN Function Definition for EVENT TRIGGER
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference List of EVENT TRIGGER styles 1.. <maxnoo fRICStyle s> >RIC Event Trigger Style Type M 8.3.3 >RIC Event Trigger Style Name M 8.3.4 >RIC Event Trigger Format Type M 8.3.5 Range bound Explanation maxnoofRICStyles Maximum no. of styles supported by RAN Function. The value is <63>.

#### 8.2.2.3 RAN Function Definition for REPORT
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type Semantics description and reference List of REPORT styles 1.. <maxnoof RICStyles > >RIC Report Style Type M 8.3.3 >RIC Report Style Name M 8.3.4 >Supported RIC Event Trigger Style M 8.3.3 Type >RIC Report Action Format Type M 8.3.5 Action Definition type used by Report style >RIC Indication Header Format Type M 8.3.5 Indication Header type used by Report style >RIC Indication Message Format Type M 8.3.5 Indication Message type used by Report style Range bound Explanation maxnoofRICStyles Maximum no. of styles supported by RAN Function. The value is <63>.

#### 8.2.2.4 RAN Function Definition for CONTROL
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference List of CONTROL styles 1.. <maxnoo fRICStyle s> >RIC Control Style Type M 8.3.3 >RIC Control Style Name M 8.3.4 >List of Control Actions 0.. <maxnoo fControlA ction> >>Control Action ID M 8.3.6 >>Control Action Name M 8.3.7 >RIC Control Header Format Type M 8.3.5 >RIC Control Message Format Type M 8.3.5 >RIC Call Process ID Format Type O 8.3.5 >RIC Control Outcome Format Type M 8.3.5 Range bound Explanation maxnoofRICStyles Maximum no. of styles supported by RAN Function. The value is <63>. maxnoofControlAction Maximum no. of Control actions supported by RAN Function. The value is <65535>.

## 8.3 Information Element definitions

### 8.3.1 General
When specifying information elements which are to be represented by bit strings, if not otherwise specifically stated in the semantics description of the concerned IE or elsewhere, the following principle applies with regards to the ordering of bits:
- The first bit (leftmost bit) contains the most significant bit (MSB);
- The last bit (rightmost bit) contains the least significant bit (LSB);
- When importing bit strings from other specifications, the first bit of the bit string contains the first bit of the
concerned information.

### 8.3.2 RAN Function Name
This IE is defined in O-RAN WG3.TS.E2SM [4] clause 6.2.2.1.

### 8.3.3 RIC Style Type
This IE is defined in O-RAN WG3.TS.E2SM [4] clause 6.2.2.2.

### 8.3.4 RIC Style Name
This IE is defined in O-RAN WG3.TS.E2SM [4] clause 6.2.2.3.

### 8.3.5 RIC Format Type
This IE is defined in O-RAN WG3.TS.E2SM [4] clause 6.2.2.4.

### 8.3.6 Control Action ID
This IE uniquely identifies an action of a given RIC Control style. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Control Action ID M INTEGER (1.. 65535, …)

### 8.3.7 Control Action Name
This IE defines the name of a given control action. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Control Action Name M PrintableString(SIZE(1.. 150, ...))

### 8.3.8 UE ID
This IE is defined in O-RAN WG3.TS.E2SM [4] clause 6.2.2.6.

### 8.3.9 Event Trigger Condition ID
This IE defines an identifier for event trigger conditions configured for a specific Event Trigger style. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Event Trigger Condition ID M INTEGER (1..65535, …)

### 8.3.10 Event Trigger ID for UE
This IE defines an identifier for a specific UE related condition configured for event triggering. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Event Trigger ID for UE M INTEGER (1..65535, …)

### 8.3.11 Logical OR This IE indicates a logical ("and” or “or”) connection of the current condition to the next condition in a given sequence of
conditions. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Logical OR M ENUMERATED (true, false, If set to “true”, …) logical connection to the next condition is “or”. Otherwise, “and”.

### 8.3.12 Event Trigger UE Information
This IE defines a set of applicable UEs for event triggering. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference List of Associated UE 1..<maxnoofUEInf Information o> >Event Trigger ID for UE M 8.3.10 >CHOICE UE Type >>Individual UE >>>UE ID M 8.3.8 >>UE Group >>>Group of UEs M 8.3.13 >Logical OR O 8.3.11 Range bound Explanation maxnoofUEInfo Maximum number of UE information in a given E2 node for which event trigger can be defined. The value is <65535>

### 8.3.13 Group of UEs
This IE uniquely identifies a group of UEs. At least one parameter must be included. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Cell Global ID O 8.3.14 List of UE Identifiers 0..<maxnoof UEs> > UE ID M 8.3.8 Range bound Explanation maxnoofUEs Maximum number of UEs in a given E2 node for which event trigger can be defined. The value is <65535>

### 8.3.14 Cell Global ID
This IE is defined in O-RAN WG3.TS.E2SM [4] clause 6.2.2.5.

### 8.3.15 Lower Layers Information Type
This IE defines the type of lower layers information to trigger on and/or report. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Lower Layers M ENUMERATED (SRS, CSI, …) SRS refers to received SRS Information Type symbols defined in 3GPP TS 38.211 [5] Clause 6.4.1.4. "CSI" Refers to UCI defined in 3GPP TS 38.213 [6] Clause 9.

### 8.3.16 Lower Layers Measurement Type
This IE defines the type of lower layers measurements to trigger on and/or report. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Lower Layers M ENUMERATED Measurement Type (DL_RLC_Buffer_Status, DL_PDCP_Buffer_Status, DL_HARQ_Statistics, Slot_Time_Stamp, …)

### 8.3.17 Slot Information
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics reference description System Frame Number M INTEGER (0..1023) CHOICE Slot Index M >SCS-15 >>SCS-15 M INTEGER (0..9) >SCS-30 >>SCS-30 M INTEGER (0..19) >SCS-60 >>SCS-60 M M INTEGER (0..39) >SCS-120 >>SCS-120 M INTEGER (0..79)

### 8.3.18 Slot Time Stamp
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics reference description Slot Information M 8.3.17 Slot Start Time M OCTET STRING Carries UTC time (SIZE(8)) encoded as the 64-bit timestamp format as defined in Clause 6 of IETF RFC 5905 [7] containing both seconds and fraction parts. Represents the start time of the slot

### 8.3.19 SRS
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics reference description List of SRS Receive Antennas 1..<maxnoofReceiveA Antennas used ntennas> to receive the SRS. The antennas shall be listed in the order as defined in O-RAN WG4.TS.CUS [8] Clause 12.5.4. >List of SRS Symbols <1, 2, 4> Symbols of the received raw SRS starting with the symbol in position 𝑙 as defined in 3GPP TS 38.211 [5] Clause 6.4.1.4.1. >>SRS Compression Header C- OCTET STRING Compression ifStaticSR (SIZE(1)) method and IQ S width defined in the M-Plane when the static IQ format and compression method is configured via the M-Plane, formatted as udCompHdr in O-RAN WG4.TS.CUS [8] Clause 8.3.3.13. This parameter shall be included only when SRS related IQ data is transferred from the O-RU with IQ data transfer procedure without C-Plane (see O-RAN WG4.TS.CUS [8] clause 8.3.5.4). >>Raw SRS M OCTET STRING As defined in O- RAN WG4.TS.CUS [8] starting from Octet 13. Range bound Explanation maxnoofReceiveAntennas Maximum number of receive antennas supported. The value is <65535>. Condition Explanation ifStaticSRS This IE shall be present if the configuration of the SRS transfer over the FH is configured as static. Otherwise, it shall not be present.

### 8.3.20 CSI
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics reference description List of CSI UE Identifiers 1..<maxnoofUEID> >UE ID M 8.3.8 >Channel carrying the UCI M ENUMERATED (PUCCH, PUSCH) >List of CSI Reports 1..<maxnoofCSIReport s> >>CSI Report Config ID M INTEGER (0..47) CSI- ReportConfigID IE in 3GPP TS 38.331 [9] Clause. The ID of this CSI report. >>CSI Fields of CSI Report Part M BIT STRING 3GPP TS 38.212 [14] Tables 6.3.1.1.2-7/8/8- A/9. CSI fields of CSI part 1 if the CSI report is of two parts, or the CSI report if it is not of two parts. >> CSI Fields of CSI Report C- BIT STRING 3GPP TS 38.212 Part 2 ifCsiPart2 [14] Tables 6.3.1.1.2-10/11. CSI fields of CSI part 2 if the CSI report is of two parts Range bound Explanation maxnoofUEID Maximum number of UE Identifiers supported. The value is <65535>. maxnoofCSIReports Maximum number of CSI reports per UE supported. The value is <255> Condition Explanation ifCsiPart2 This IE shall be present if the CSI report received from the UE includes part 2. Otherwise, it shall not be present.

### 8.3.21 DL RLC Buffer Status
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics reference description List of DL RLC UE Identifiers 1..<maxnoofUEID> >UE ID M 8.3.8 >List of DL RLC UE Bearers 1..<maxnoofUEBearer s> >>LCID M INTEGER (1..32, ...) logicalChannelId entity IE in 3GPP TS 38.331 [9] Sec 6. Logical Channel ID >>DL RLC Buffer Occupancy M INTEGER Buffer Occupancy (BO) in number of bytes as defined in 3GPP TS 25.321 [10] clause 8.2.2(c). >>DL RLC HOL Time To Live M INTEGER Time in units of (0..1023, ...) 0.5ms. The time available for the PDU at the head of the line in the RLC buffer to be transmitted without violating the PDB associated with this LCID. Range bound Explanation maxnoofUEID Maximum number of UE Identifiers supported. The value is <65535>. maxnoofUEBearers Maximum number of reported bearers per UE supported. The value is <255>

### 8.3.22 DL PDCP Buffer Status
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics reference description List of DL PDCP UE Identifiers 1..<maxnoofUEID> >UE ID M 8.3.8 >List of DL PDCP UE Bearers 1..<maxnoofUEBearer s> >>DRB ID M INTEGER (1..32, ...) DRB ID IE in 3GPP TS 37.483 [11] clause 9.3.1.16 >>DL PDCP Buffer Occupancy M INTEGER PDCP data volume in number of bytes as defined in 3GPP TS 38.323 [12] clause 5.6. >>DL PDCP HOL Time To Live M INTEGER Time in units of (0..1023, ...) 0.5ms. The time available for the PDU at the head of the line in the PDCP buffer to be transmitted without violating the PDB associated with this DRB ID. Range bound Explanation maxnoofUEID Maximum number of UE Identifiers supported. The value is <65535>. maxnoofUEBearers Maximum number of reported bearers per UE supported. The value is <255>

### 8.3.23 DL HARQ Statistics
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics reference description List of DL HARQ UE Identifiers 1..<maxnoofUEID> >HARQ UE ID M 8.3.8 >List of DL HARQ Codewords <1, 2> >>DL SU ACK Count M INTEGER Number of ACKs counted for non- MU-MIMO DL transmissions since the last report >>DL SU NACK Count M INTEGER Number of NACKs counted for non-MU- MIMO DL transmissions since the last report >>DL SU DTX Count M INTEGER Number of DTXs counted for non- MU-MIMO DL transmissions since the last report >>DL MU ACK Count M INTEGER Number of ACKs counted for MU- MIMO DL transmissions since the last report >>DL MU NACK Count M INTEGER Number of NACKs counted for MU-MIMO DL transmissions since the last report >>DL MU DTX Count M INTEGER Number of DTXs counted for MU- MIMO DL transmissions since the last report Range bound Explanation maxnoofUEID Maximum number of UE Identifiers supported. The value is <65535>.

### 8.3.24 Received Timestamp
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics reference description Received Timestamp M OCTET STRING Time RIC Control (SIZE(8)) Request message received by RAN Function over E2 interface. Carries UTC time encoded as the 64-bit timestamp format as defined in Clause 6 of IETF RFC 5905 [7] containing both seconds and fraction parts.

### 8.3.25 Logical Channel Handling Control
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics reference description List of Logical Channel UE 1..<maxnoofUEID> Identifiers >UE ID M 8.3.8 >List of logical channels 0..<maxnoofLogicalCh The list of controlled by Near-RT RIC to annels> bearers for which add the O-DU is requested to delegate scheduling decisions to the Near-RT RIC (in addition to the ones already delegated) >>Logical Channel ID M INTEGER (1..32) LogicalChannelId entity IE in 3GPP TS 38.331 [9] clause 6 >>Starting Slot number M 8.3.17 The slot number from which the control of scheduling the logical channel starts >List of logical channels to 0..<maxnoofLogicalCh The list of release annels> bearers the Near-RT RIC will no longer schedule >>Logical Channel ID M INTEGER (1..32) LogicalChannelId entity IE in 3GPP TS 38.331 [9] clause 6 >>Starting Slot number M 8.3.17 The slot number from which the control of scheduling the logical channel is being released back to the O-DU Range bound Explanation maxnoofUEID Maximum number of UE Identifiers supported by E2SM-LLC Indication Message Format 1 IE to be reported. The value is <65535>. maxnoofLogicalChannels Maximum no. of logical channels. The value is <63>.

### 8.3.26 DL Scheduling Control
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics reference description List of DL Slots to be scheduled 1..<maxnoofScheduled DLSlots> >Slot Information M 8.3.17 >List of DL Grants 1..<maxnoofDLGrants > >>Grant ID M INTEGER This is the ID (1..63, …) used by the RIC for the grant it seeks to add to the PDCCH >>BWP ID O INTEGER (0..4, …) BWP-Id IE in 3GPP TS 38.331 [9]. Identifies the BWP in which to include the grant. Value of 0 or field not included, indicate the DL Initial BWP >>UE ID M 8.3.8 >>List of Logical Channels 1..<maxnoofLogicalCh annels> >>>Logical Channel ID M INTEGER (1..32, ...) LogicalChannelId entity IE in 3GPP TS 38.331 [9] clause 6 >>>TB1 Number of Bytes M INTEGER The number of bytes of the logical channel to be included in TB1 of the grant >>>TB2 Number of Bytes O INTEGER The number of bytes of the logical channel to be included in TB2 of the grant >>CHOICE Downlink Control M Information Type >>>DCI 1_0 4>Use CS-RNTI O Indicates the use of CS-RNTI in the DCI to activate/deactivat e SPS. CS-RNTI not used when not included. 5>SPS Config Index C- INTEGER (0..7, ...) sps-ConfigIndex ifSPSList IE in 3GPP TS 38.331 [9]. Indicates the index of one of multiple SPS configurations when there are multiple SPS configurations in the SPS-Config IE (3GPP TS 38.331 [9]) of the UE. 5>Activation M ENUMERATED Indicates (Activate, whether to Deactivate) activate or SPS 4>Freq Domain Resources M INTEGER Representing DL frequency resource allocation type 1 as defined in Clause 5.1.2.2.2 of 3GPP TS 38.214 [13] 4>Time Domain Resources M INTEGER 4 bits of (0..15, …) representing resource allocation in time domain as defined in Clause 5.1.2.1 of 3GPP TS 38.214 [13] 4>VRB to PRB Mapping O ENUMERATED Not interleaved if (Interleaved, …) not included 4>MCS M INTEGER 5 bits (0..31, …) representing the MCS as defined in Clause 5.1.3.1 of 3GPP TS 38.214 [13] 4>Redundancy Version M INTEGER (0..3, …) 2 bits as defined in Table 7.3.1.1.1-2 of 3GPP TS 38.212 [14] >>>DCI 1_1 4>Use CS-RNTI O Indicates the use of CS-RNTI in the DCI to CS-RNTI not used when not included. 5>SPS Config Index C- INTEGER (0..7, …) sps-ConfigIndex ifSPSList IE in 3GPP TS 38.331 [9]. Indicates the index of one of multiple SPS configurations when there are multiple SPS configurations in the SPS-Config IE (3GPP TS 38.331 [9]) of the UE. 4>Carrier Indicator O INTEGER (1..7, …) As defined in Clause 10.1 of 3GPP TS 38.213 [6]. If not included, indicates the UE serving cell. 4>Freq Domain Resources M BIT STRING Representing DL frequency resource allocation type 0 or 1 as defined in Clause 7.3.1.2.2 of 3GPP TS 38.212 [14] and Clause 5.1.2.2 of TS 38.214 [13] 4>Time Domain Resources M INTEGER 4 bits (0..15, …) representing resource allocation in time domain as defined in Clause 5.1.2.1 of 3GPP TS 38.214 [13] 4>VRB to PRB Mapping O ENUMERATED Not interleaved if (Interleaved, …) not included 4>PRB Bundling Size O INTEGER(0..1, …) Only applicable Indicator when prb- BundlingType (3GPP TS 38.331 [9]) is set to 'dynamicBundlin g'. Indicates which of the two bundle size sets configured by dynamicBundling IE to use as specified in Clause 5.1.2.3 of 3GPP TS 38.214 [13]. 4>TB1 MCS M INTEGER 5 bits (0..31, …) representing the MCS as defined in Clause 5.1.3.1 of 3GPP TS 38.214 [13] 4>TB1 Redundancy M INTEGER (0..3, …) 2 bits as defined Version in Table 7.3.1.1.1-2 of 3GPP TS 38.212 [14] 4>TB2 MCS O INTEGER 5 bits (0..31, …) representing the MCS as defined in Clause 5.1.3.1 of 3GPP TS 38.214 [13] 4>TB2 Redundancy O INTEGER (0..3, …) 2 bits as defined Version in Table 7.3.1.1.1-2 of 3GPP TS 38.212 [14] 4>Antenna ports M BIT STRING As defined in (SIZE(4..6)) Clause 7.3.1.2.2 of 3GPP TS 38.212 [14] 4>Transmission O INTEGER (0..7) As defined in Configuration Indication Clause 7.43.1.2.2 of TS 38.212 [14] 4>SRS Request O BIT STRING If included, (SIZE(2..3)) identifies the SRS resource set(s) to trigger as defined in Clause 7.3.1.2.2 of 3GPP TS 38.212 [14]. No aperiodic SRS triggering if not included (or set to 0). 4>DMRS Sequence M INTEGER(0..1) Selects between Initialization two ways of initializing the DMRS sequence as defined in clause 7.4.1.1.1 of 3GPP TS 38.211 [5]. >>>Semi Persistence NULL Indicates SPS resources being allocated without DCI >List of PDSCH SMGs 1..<maxnoofPdschSM Gs> >>Precoder ID M INTEGER An index to the (0..63, …) position in the Sequence of PDSCH Precoders >>SMG Priority O INTEGER Indicates priority (0..31, …) of avoiding overwrites, where 0 represents highest priority and 31 represents lowest priority. >>Start RB M INTEGER Identifies the lowest virtual RB of the SMG >>Number of RBs M INTEGER Indicates the number of contiguous virtual RBs, starting from the Start RB, that construct the SMG >>Start Symbol M INTEGER Identifies the lowest symbol of the SMG >>Number of Symbols M INTEGER Indicates the number of contiguous symbols that construct the SMG >List of CSI-RS Precoding 0..<maxnoofCsiRsPrec Bands odingBands> >>Precoder ID M INTEGER An index to the (0..63, …) position in the Sequence of Precoders >>UE ID M 8.3.8 >>NZP CSI-RS Resource ID M INTEGER NZP-CSI-RS- (0..191, …) ResourceId IE in 3GPP TS 38.331 [9]. Identifies the NZP CSI-RS resource >>Start RB M INTEGER Identifies the lowest RB of the CSI-RS precoding band >>Number of RBs M INTEGER Indicates the number of contiguous RBs, starting from the Start RB, that construct the CSI-RS precoding band >List of Precoders 1..<maxnoofPrecoders > >> Compression Information O >>> Precoder Compression M OCTET STRING As defined in Header Clause 7.7.1.2 of O-RAN WG4.TS.CUS [8] >>> Precoder Compression M OCTET STRING As defined in Parameters Clause 7.7.1.3 of O-RAN WG4.TS.CUS [8] >>List of Precoder M 1..<maxnoofPrecoder The mapping of Coefficients Coefficients> the coefficients to layers and antenna elements is as defined in Clause 12.5.3 of O-RAN WG4.TS.CUS [8] >>> Precoder Coefficient I M INTEGER The precoder coefficient I value. As defined in Clause 7.7.1.4 of O-RAN WG4.TS.CUS [8]. >>> Precoder Coefficient Q M INTEGER The precoder coefficient Q value. As defined in Clause 7.7.1.5 of O-RAN WG4.TS.CUS [8]. Condition Explanation ifSPSList This IE shall be present if there are multiple SPS configurations in the SPS-Config IE (3GPP TS 38.331 [9]) of the UE. Range bound Explanation maxnoofScheduledDLSlots Maximum no. of slots to be scheduled. The value is <63>. maxnoofDLGrants Maximum no. of grants per slots. The value is <63>. maxnoofLogicalChannels Maximum no. of logical channels. The value is <63>. maxnoofPdschSMGs Maximum no. of spatial multiplexing groups. The value is <63>. maxnoofCsiRsPrecodingBands Maximum no. of CSI-RS precoding bands. The value is <63>. maxnoofPrecoders Maximum no. of precoders. The value is <255>. maxnoofPrecoderCoefficients Maximum no. of precoder coefficients. The value is <65535>.

### 8.3.27 DL Scheduling Control Outcome
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics reference description Received Timestamp M 8.3.24 Processing Time Margin M INTEGER (-32,767.. Time margin 32,767) after processing the information for the first slot included in the Control Message. A negative value indicates by how much time the Control Message was too late to arrive at the E2 Node. Carries signed 16-bit fraction of a second resolving ~30 microseconds. List of Slots 1..<maxnoofScheduled DLSlots> >Slot Information M 8.3.17 >List of DL Grants 1..<maxnoofDLGrants The full list of > grants included in the Control Message >>Grant ID M ID of the grant included in the Control Message >>CHOICE Execution Level M >>>Fully Executed O NULL >>>Not Fully Executed O 4>List of Scheduled Logical 1..<maxnoofLogicalCh Shall include the Channels annels> list of all logical channels included in the Control Message for the same Grant ID. 5>Logical Channel ID M INTEGER logicalChannelId (1..32, …) entity IE in 3GPP TS 38.331 [9] Sec 6 5>Number of Bytes M INTEGER Indicates the Scheduled number of bytes actually scheduled from the logical channel 5>Cause M INTEGER Identifies the cause of not sending the number of bytes requested in the Control Message. 0= Other 1= Information arrived too late 2= LCID overwritten by other transmissions. 3= Reached maximum number of DCIs for the slot. 4= UE not available. 5= Resources used for retransmission/s 6= Insufficient RLC queue depth >List of Additional DL 0..<maxnoofDLGrants Shall include the Allocations > list of all DL PDSCH allocations not included in the Control Message and used slot resources. >>UE ID O 8.3.8 Shal be included if granted to a specific UE >>Logical Channel ID O INTEGER logicalChannelId (1..32, …) entity IE in 3GPP TS 38.331 [9] Sec 6. Shall be included if it exists for the logical channel. >>Number of Bytes M INTEGER Indicates the Scheduled number of bytes scheduled >>Start Symbol O INTEGER Should be included when Logical Channel ID doesn’t apply to this allocation >>Number of Symbols O INTEGER Should be included when Logical Channel ID doesn’t apply to this allocation >>Start RB O INTEGER Should be included when Logical Channel ID doesn’t apply to this allocation >>Number of RBs O INTEGER Should be included when Logical Channel ID doesn’t apply to this allocation >List of CSI-RS Precoding 0..<MaxnoofCsiRsPrec Shall include the Bands Not Executed odingBands> list of all CSI-RS precoding bands included in the Control Message that were not executed >>CSI-RS Precoding Band ID M INTEGER Identifies the (0..maxnoofCsiRsPr position of the ecodingBands) CSI-RS Precoding Band Item in the List of CSI-RS Precoding Bands. The value “0” represents the first CSI-RS Precoding Band Item, “1” the second, etc. >>Cause M INTEGER 0= Other 1= Information arrived too late 2= Unrecognized UE ID 3= Unrecognized NZP CSI-RS Resource ID 4= invalid RB range 5= Invalid number of Coef. 6= Coef gain is too high

## 8.4 Information Element abstract syntax (with ASN.1)

### 8.4.1 General
E2SM-LLC ASN.1 definition conforms to ITU-T Recommendation X.680 [15], ITU-T Recommendation X.681 [16]. Clause 8.4.2 presents the Abstract Syntax of the E2SM information elements to be carried within the O-RAN WG3.TS.E2AP [3] protocol messages with ASN.1. In case there is contradiction between the ASN.1 definition in this clause and the tabular format in clauses 8.2 and 8.3, the ASN.1 shall take precedence, except for the definition of conditions for the presence of conditional elements, in which the tabular format shall take precedence. If an E2SM information element carried as an OCTET STRING in an O-RAN WG3.TS.E2AP [3] message that is not constructed as defined above is received, this shall be considered as Abstract Syntax Error, and the message shall be handled as defined for Abstract Syntax Error in clause 8.

### 8.4.2 Information Element Definitions
-- ASN1START -- ************************************************************** -- E2SM-LLC Information Element Definitions -- ************************************************************** E2SM-LLC-IEs { iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1) private(4) enterprise(1) 53148 e2(1) version1(1) e2sm(2) e2sm-LLC-IEs (5)} DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::= BEGIN -- ************************************************************** -- E2SM Common IEs -- ************************************************************** IMPORTS RANfunction-Name, RIC-Style-Name, RIC-Style-Type, RIC-Format-Type, CGI, UEID FROM E2SM-COMMON-IEs; -- ***************************************************** -- CONSTANTS -- ***************************************************** maxnoofLLIs INTEGER ::= 63 maxnoofMeasurementsToReport INTEGER ::= 65535 maxnoofMeasurements INTEGER ::= 63 maxnoofRICStyles INTEGER ::= 63 maxnoofControlAction INTEGER ::= 65535 maxnoofUEInfo INTEGER ::= 65535 maxnoofUEs INTEGER ::= 65535 maxnoofReceiveAntennas INTEGER ::= 65535 maxnoofUEID INTEGER ::= 65535 maxnoofCSIReports INTEGER ::= 255 maxnoofUEBearers INTEGER ::= 255 maxnoofLogicalChannels INTEGER ::= 63 maxnoofScheduledDLSlots INTEGER ::= 63 maxnoofDLGrants INTEGER ::= 63 maxnoofPdschSMGs INTEGER ::= 63 maxnoofCsiRsPrecodingBands INTEGER ::= 63 maxnoofPrecoders INTEGER ::= 255 maxnoofPrecoderCoefficients INTEGER ::= 65535 -- ***************************************************** -- IEs -- ***************************************************** LogicalOR ::= ENUMERATED {true, false, ...} LowerLayers-Info-Type ::= ENUMERATED {srs, csi,...} LowerLayers-Meas-Type ::= ENUMERATED { dl-rlc-buffer-status, dl-pdcp-buffer-status, dl-harq-statistics, slot-time-stamp, ...} LogicalChannelID ::= INTEGER (1..32, ...) SpsConfigIndex ::= INTEGER (0..7, ...) ReceivedTimestamp ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(8)) ------------------------------- -- Event Trigger related IEs ------------------------------- EventTrigger-UE-Info ::= SEQUENCE { ueInfo-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofUEInfo)) OF EventTrigger-UE-Info-Item, ... } EventTrigger-UE-Info-Item ::= SEQUENCE { eventTriggerUEID RIC-EventTrigger-UE-ID, ueType CHOICE { ueType-Choice-Individual EventTrigger-UE-Info-Item-Choice-Individual, ueType-Choice-Group EventTrigger-UE-Info-Item-Choice-Group, ... }, logicalOR LogicalOR OPTIONAL, ... } EventTrigger-UE-Info-Item-Choice-Individual ::= SEQUENCE { ueID UEID, ... } EventTrigger-UE-Info-Item-Choice-Group ::= SEQUENCE { groupOfUEs GroupOfUEs, ... } GroupOfUEs ::= SEQUENCE { cellGlobalID CGI OPTIONAL, ueIdentifier-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(0..maxnoofUEs)) OF UeIdentifier-Item, ... } UeIdentifier-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ueID UEID, ... } ---------------------------- -- RIC Service related IEs ---------------------------- RIC-ControlAction-ID ::= INTEGER (1..65535, ...) RIC-ControlAction-Name ::= PrintableString (SIZE(1..150, ...)) RIC-EventTriggerCondition-ID ::= INTEGER (1..65535, ...) RIC-EventTrigger-UE-ID ::= INTEGER (1..65535, ...) SlotTimeStamp ::= SEQUENCE { slotInfo SlotInfo, slotStartTime OCTET STRING (SIZE(8)), ... } SlotInfo ::= SEQUENCE { systemFramNumber INTEGER (0..1023, ...), slotIndex CHOICE { scs-15 INTEGER (0..9), scs-30 INTEGER (0..19), scs-60 INTEGER (0..39), scs-120 INTEGER (0..79), ... }, ... } SRS ::= SEQUENCE { srsReceiveAntenna-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofReceiveAntennas)) OF SrsReceiveAntenna- Item, ... } SrsReceiveAntenna-Item ::= SEQUENCE { srsSymbol-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1|2|4,...)) OF SrsSymbol-Item, ... } SrsSymbol-Item ::= SEQUENCE { srsCompressionHeader OCTET STRING (SIZE(1)), rawSRS OCTET STRING, ... } CSI ::= SEQUENCE { csiUeIdentifier-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1.. maxnoofUEID)) OF CsiUeIdentifier-Item, ... } CsiUeIdentifier-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ueID UEID, channelCarryingUCI ENUMERATED {pucch, pusch, ...}, csiReport-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1.. maxnoofCSIReports)) OF CsiReport-Item, ... } CsiReport-Item ::= SEQUENCE { csiReportConfigID INTEGER, csiFieldsCsiReport-Part1 BIT STRING, csiFieldsCsiReport-Part2 BIT STRING OPTIONAL, ... } DlRlcBufferStatus ::= SEQUENCE { dlRlcUeIdentifiers-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1.. maxnoofUEID)) OF DlRlcUeIdentifiers-Item, ... } DlRlcUeIdentifiers-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ueID UEID, dlRlcUeBearers-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1.. maxnoofUEBearers)) OF DlRlcUeBearers-Item, ... } DlRlcUeBearers-Item ::= SEQUENCE { lcID INTEGER (1..32, ...), dlRlcBufferOccupancy INTEGER, dlRlcHolTimeToLive INTEGER (0..1032, ...), ... } DlPdcpBufferStatus ::= SEQUENCE { dlPdcpUeIdentifiers-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1.. maxnoofUEID)) OF DlPdcpUeIdentifiers-Item, ... } DlPdcpUeIdentifiers-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ueID UEID, dlPdcpUeBearers-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1.. maxnoofUEBearers)) OF DlPdcpUeBearers-Item, ... } DlPdcpUeBearers-Item ::= SEQUENCE { drbID INTEGER (1..32, ...), dlPdcpBufferOccupancy INTEGER, dlPdcpHolTimeToLive INTEGER (0..1032, ...), ... } DlHarqStatistics ::= SEQUENCE { dlHarqUeIdentifier-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1.. maxnoofUEID)) OF DlHarqUeIdentifier-Item, ... } DlHarqUeIdentifier-Item ::= SEQUENCE { harqUeID UEID, dlHarqCodeword-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1|2,...)) OF DlHarqCodeword-Item, ... } DlHarqCodeword-Item ::= SEQUENCE { dlSu-ACK-Count INTEGER, dlSu-NACK-Count INTEGER, dlSu-DTX-Count INTEGER, dlMu-ACK-Count INTEGER, dlMu-NACK-Count INTEGER, dlMu-DTX-Count INTEGER, ... } LogicalChannelHandlingControl ::= SEQUENCE { logicalChannelUEID-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1.. maxnoofUEID)) OF LogicalChannelUEID-Item, ... } LogicalChannelUEID-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ueID UEID, logicalChanContByNearRTRicToAdd-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1.. maxnoofLogicalChannels)) OF LogicalChanContByNearRTRicToAdd-Item, logicalChanContByNearRTRicToRel-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1.. maxnoofLogicalChannels)) OF LogicalChanContByNearRTRicToRel-Item, ... } LogicalChanContByNearRTRicToAdd-Item ::= SEQUENCE { logicalChannelID LogicalChannelID, startingSlotNumber SlotInfo, ... } LogicalChanContByNearRTRicToRel-Item ::= SEQUENCE { logicalChannelID LogicalChannelID, startingSlotNumber SlotInfo, ... } DlSchedulingControl ::= SEQUENCE { dlSlotToBeScheduled-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1.. maxnoofScheduledDLSlots)) OF DlSlotToBeScheduled-Item, ... } DlSlotToBeScheduled-Item ::= SEQUENCE { slotInfo SlotInfo, dlGrant-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1.. maxnoofDLGrants)) OF DlGrant-Item, pdschSMG-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1.. maxnoofPdschSMGs)) OF PdschSMG-Item, csiRsPrecodingBand-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(0.. maxnoofCsiRsPrecodingBands)) OF CsiRsPrecodingBand-Item, precoder-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1.. maxnoofPrecoders)) OF Precoder-Item, ... } DlGrant-Item ::= SEQUENCE { grantID INTEGER (1..63, ...), bwpID INTEGER (0..4, ...) OPTIONAL, ueID UEID, logicalChannel-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1.. maxnoofLogicalChannels)) OF LogicalChannel- Item, dlControlInfoType CHOICE { dci-10 Dci-10, dci-11 Dci-11, semiPersistence NULL, ... }, ... } LogicalChannel-Item ::= SEQUENCE { logicalChannelID LogicalChannelID, noofBytes-TB1 INTEGER, noofBytes-TB2 INTEGER OPTIONAL, ... } Dci-10 ::= SEQUENCE { useCsiRnti SEQUENCE { spsConfigIndex SpsConfigIndex OPTIONAL, -- C-ifSPSList: This IE shall be present if there are multiple SPS configurations in the SPS-Config IE (3GPP TS 38.331) of the UE. It shall not be present otherwise. activation ENUMERATED {activate, deactivate}, ... } OPTIONAL, freqDomainResources INTEGER, timeDomainResources INTEGER (0..15, ...), vrbToPrbMapping ENUMERATED {interleaved, ...} OPTIONAL, mcs INTEGER (0..31, ...), redundancyVersion INTEGER (0..3, ...), ... } Dci-11 ::= SEQUENCE { useCsiRnti SEQUENCE { spsConfigIndex SpsConfigIndex OPTIONAL, -- C-ifSPSList: This IE shall be present if there are multiple SPS configurations in the SPS-Config IE (3GPP TS 38.331) of the UE. It shall not be present otherwise. ... } OPTIONAL, carrierIndicator INTEGER (1..7, ...) OPTIONAL, freqDomainResources BIT STRING, timeDomainResources INTEGER (0..15, ...), vrbToPrbMapping ENUMERATED {interleaved, ...} OPTIONAL, prbBundlingSizeIndicagor INTEGER (0..1, ...), mcs-TB1 INTEGER (0..31, ...), redundancyVersion-TB1 INTEGER (0..3, ...), mcs-TB2 INTEGER (0..31, ...) OPTIONAL, redundancyVersion-TB2 INTEGER (0..3, ...) OPTIONAL, antennaPorts BIT STRING (SIZE(4..6)), transmissionConfigIndication INTEGER (0..7, ...) OPTIONAL, srsRequest BIT STRING (SIZE(2..3)) OPTIONAL, dmrsSequenceInit INTEGER (0..1), ... } PdschSMG-Item ::= SEQUENCE { precoderID INTEGER (0..63, ...), smgProirity INTEGER (0..31, ...) OPTIONAL, startRB INTEGER, noofRBs INTEGER, startSymbol INTEGER, noofSymbols INTEGER, ... } CsiRsPrecodingBand-Item ::= SEQUENCE { precoderID INTEGER (0..63, ...), ueid UEID, nzpCsiRsResourceID INTEGER (0..191, ...), startRB INTEGER, noofRBs INTEGER, ... } Precoder-Item ::= SEQUENCE { compressionInformation SEQUENCE { precoderCompressionHeader OCTET STRING, precoderCompressionParam OCTET STRING, ... } OPTIONAL, precoderCoeff-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1.. maxnoofPrecoderCoefficients)) OF PrecoderCoeff- Item, ... } PrecoderCoeff-Item ::= SEQUENCE { precoderCoeff-I INTEGER, precoderCoeff-Q INTEGER, ... } DlSchedulingControlOutcome ::= SEQUENCE { receivedTimstamp ReceivedTimestamp, processingTimeMargin INTEGER (-32767..32767), scheduledSlotOutcome-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1.. maxnoofScheduledDLSlots)) OF DlScheduledSlotOutcome-Item, ... } DlScheduledSlotOutcome-Item ::= SEQUENCE { slotInfo SlotInfo, dlGrantOutome-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1.. maxnoofDLGrants)) OF DlGrantOutcome-Item, additionalDlAllocation-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(0.. maxnoofDLGrants)) OF AdditionalDlAllocation- Item, csiRsPrecodingBandsNotExecuted-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(0.. maxnoofCsiRsPrecodingBands)) OF CsiRsPrecodingBandsNotExecuted-Item, ... } DlGrantOutcome-Item ::= SEQUENCE { grantID INTEGER (1..63, ...), executionLevel CHOICE { fullyExecuted NULL, notFullyExecuted SEQUENCE { scheduledLogicalChannelOutcome-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1.. maxnoofLogicalChannels)) OF ScheduledLogicalChannelOutcome-Item, ... }, ... } } ScheduledLogicalChannelOutcome-Item ::= SEQUENCE { logicalChannelID LogicalChannelID, noofBytesScheduled INTEGER, cause INTEGER, ... } AdditionalDlAllocation-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ueid UEID OPTIONAL, logicalChannelID LogicalChannelID OPTIONAL, noofBytesScheduled INTEGER, startSymbol INTEGER OPTIONAL, noofSymbols INTEGER OPTIONAL, startRB INTEGER OPTIONAL, noofRBs INTEGER OPTIONAL, ... } CsiRsPrecodingBandsNotExecuted-Item ::= SEQUENCE { csiRsPrecodingBandID INTEGER (0..63, ...), cause INTEGER, ... } -- ************************************************************** -- E2SM-LLC Service Model IEs -- ************************************************************** -- *************************************************** -- Event Trigger OCTET STRING contents -- *************************************************** E2SM-LLC-EventTrigger ::= SEQUENCE { ric-eventTrigger-formats CHOICE { eventTrigger-Format1 E2SM-LLC-EventTrigger-Format1, eventTrigger-Format2 E2SM-LLC-EventTrigger-Format2, ... }, ... } E2SM-LLC-EventTrigger-Format1 ::= SEQUENCE { message-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofLLIs)) OF E2SM-LLC-EventTrigger-Format1- Item, globalAssociatedUEInfo EventTrigger-UE-Info OPTIONAL, ... } E2SM-LLC-EventTrigger-Format1-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ric-eventTriggerCondition-ID RIC-EventTriggerCondition-ID, lowerLayersInfoType LowerLayers-Info-Type, associatedUEInfo EventTrigger-UE-Info OPTIONAL, logicalOR LogicalOR OPTIONAL, ... } E2SM-LLC-EventTrigger-Format2 ::= SEQUENCE { reportingPeriod INTEGER (1.. 65535), associatedUEInfo EventTrigger-UE-Info OPTIONAL, ... } -- *************************************************** -- Action Definition OCTET STRING contents -- *************************************************** E2SM-LLC-ActionDefinition ::= SEQUENCE { ric-Style-Type RIC-Style-Type, ric-actionDefinition-formats CHOICE { actionDefinition-Format1 E2SM-LLC-ActionDefinition-Format1, actionDefinition-Format2 E2SM-LLC-ActionDefinition-Format2, ... }, ... } E2SM-LLC-ActionDefinition-Format1 ::= SEQUENCE { lowerLayersInfoType LowerLayers-Info-Type, ... } E2SM-LLC-ActionDefinition-Format2 ::= SEQUENCE { measurementToReport-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1.. maxnoofMeasurementsToReport)) OF MeasurementToReport-Item, ... } MeasurementToReport-Item ::= SEQUENCE { lowerLayers-Meas-Type LowerLayers-Meas-Type, ... } -- *************************************************** -- Indication Header OCTET STRING contents -- *************************************************** E2SM-LLC-IndicationHeader ::= SEQUENCE { ric-indicationHeader-formats CHOICE { indicationHeader-Format1 E2SM-LLC-IndicationHeader-Format1, ... }, ... } E2SM-LLC-IndicationHeader-Format1 ::= SEQUENCE { ric-eventTriggerCondition-ID RIC-EventTriggerCondition-ID OPTIONAL, ... } -- *************************************************** -- Indication Message OCTET STRING contents -- *************************************************** E2SM-LLC-IndicationMessage ::= SEQUENCE { ric-indicationMessage-formats CHOICE { indicationMessage-Format1 E2SM-LLC-IndicationMessage-Format1, indicationMessage-Format2 E2SM-LLC-IndicationMessage-Format2, ... }, ... } E2SM-LLC-IndicationMessage-Format1 ::= SEQUENCE { slotTimeStamp SlotTimeStamp, lowerLayersInfoType CHOICE { sRS SRS, cSI CSI, ... }, ... } E2SM-LLC-IndicationMessage-Format2 ::= SEQUENCE { lowerLayersMeasurement-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1.. maxnoofMeasurements)) OF LowerLayersMeasurement-Item, ... } LowerLayersMeasurement-Item ::= SEQUENCE { slotTimeStamp SlotTimeStamp, lowerLayersMeasurementType CHOICE { dlRlcBufferStatus DlRlcBufferStatus, dlPdcpBufferStatus DlPdcpBufferStatus, dlHarqStatistics DlHarqStatistics, slotTimeStamp NULL, ... }, ... } -- *************************************************** -- Control Header OCTET STRING contents -- *************************************************** E2SM-LLC-ControlHeader ::= SEQUENCE { ric-controlHeader-formats CHOICE { controlHeader-Format1 E2SM-LLC-ControlHeader-Format1, ... }, ... } E2SM-LLC-ControlHeader-Format1 ::= SEQUENCE { ric-StyleType RIC-Style-Type, ric-ControlAction-ID RIC-ControlAction-ID, ... } -- *************************************************** -- Control Message OCTET STRING contents -- *************************************************** E2SM-LLC-ControlMessage ::= SEQUENCE { ric-controlMessage-formats CHOICE { controlMessage-Format1 E2SM-LLC-ControlMessage-Format1, ... }, ... } E2SM-LLC-ControlMessage-Format1 ::= SEQUENCE { controlType CHOICE { logicalChannelHandlingControl LogicalChannelHandlingControl, dlSchedulingControl DlSchedulingControl, ... }, ... } -- **************************************************** -- Control Outcome OCTET STRING contents -- **************************************************** E2SM-LLC-ControlOutcome ::= SEQUENCE { ric-controlOutcome-formats CHOICE { controlOutcome-Format1 E2SM-LLC-ControlOutcome-Format1, ... }, ... } E2SM-LLC-ControlOutcome-Format1 ::= SEQUENCE { controlType CHOICE { logicalChannelHandling ReceivedTimestamp, dlSchedulingParameters DlSchedulingControlOutcome, ... }, ... } -- ************************************************************** -- RAN Function Definition IEs -- ************************************************************** E2SM-LLC-RANFunctionDefinition ::= SEQUENCE{ ranFunction-Name RANfunction-Name, ranFunctionDefinition-EventTrigger RANFunctionDefinition-EventTrigger OPTIONAL, ranFunctionDefinition-Report RANFunctionDefinition-Report OPTIONAL, ranFunctionDefinition-Control RANFunctionDefinition-Control OPTIONAL, ... } ------------------------------- -- Event Trigger ------------------------------- RANFunctionDefinition-EventTrigger ::= SEQUENCE { ric-EventTriggerStyle-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofRICStyles)) OF RANFunctionDefinition- EventTrigger-Style-Item, ... } RANFunctionDefinition-EventTrigger-Style-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ric-EventTriggerStyle-Type RIC-Style-Type, ric-EventTriggerStyle-Name RIC-Style-Name, ric-EventTriggerFormat-Type RIC-Format-Type, ... } ------------------------------- -- Report ------------------------------- RANFunctionDefinition-Report ::= SEQUENCE { ric-ReportStyle-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofRICStyles)) OF RANFunctionDefinition- Report-Item, ... } RANFunctionDefinition-Report-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ric-ReportStyle-Type RIC-Style-Type, ric-ReportStyle-Name RIC-Style-Name, ric-SupportedEventTriggerStyle-Type RIC-Style-Type, ric-ReportActionFormat-Type RIC-Format-Type, ric-IndicationHeaderFormat-Type RIC-Format-Type, ric-IndicationMessageFormat-Type RIC-Format-Type, ... } ------------------------------- -- Control ------------------------------- RANFunctionDefinition-Control ::= SEQUENCE { ric-ControlStyle-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofRICStyles)) OF RANFunctionDefinition- Control-Item, ... } RANFunctionDefinition-Control-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ric-ControlStyle-Type RIC-Style-Type, ric-ControlStyle-Name RIC-Style-Name, ric-ControlAction-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofControlAction)) OF RANFunctionDefinition-Control-Action-Item OPTIONAL, ric-ControlHeaderFormat-Type RIC-Format-Type, ric-ControlMessageFormat-Type RIC-Format-Type, ric-CallProcessIDFormat-Type RIC-Format-Type OPTIONAL, ric-ControlOutcomeFormat-Type RIC-Format-Type, ... } RANFunctionDefinition-Control-Action-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ric-ControlAction-ID RIC-ControlAction-ID, ric-ControlAction-Name RIC-ControlAction-Name, ... } END -- ASN1STOP

## 8.5 Message transfer syntax
E2SM-LLC shall use the ASN.1 Basic Packed Encoding Rules (BASIC-PER) Aligned Variant as transfer syntax, as specified in Recommendation ITU-T X.691 [17].

# 9 Handling of unknown, unforeseen and erroneous
protocol data Clause 10 of TS 36.413 [18] is applicable for the purposes of the present document. Annex (informative): Change history Date Revision Description Date Revision Description v01.docx> approved at WG3#230 v03.docx> approved at WG3#234 Style-1-LLI-v03> approved at WG3#239 <COT-2024.10.08-WG3-CR-0012-E2SM-LLC-Support-REPORT-Service-Style-2-Lower- Layers-Measurements-v03> <COT-2024.10.08-WG3-CR-0013-E2SM-LLC-Support-CONTROL-Service-Style-1- Logical-Channel-Handling-v03> <COT-2024.10.14-WG3-CR-0014-E2SM-LLC-Support-CONTROL-Service-Style-2- Scheduling-Parameters-v04> <COT-2024.10.14-WG3-CR-0015-E2SM-LLC-Clauses-6.1-7.1-7.2-7.9-ClauseVoids-v03> approved at Montreal F2F meeting 31/10/2024. < COT-2024.11.04-WG3-CR-0016-E2SM-LLC-Add-RIC-Call_Process-ID-to-Control- Function-Definition-v02> approved at WG3#244 < COT-2024.11.04-WG3-CR-0017-E2SM-LLC-Clauses-8.4-8.5-9-v03> approved at WG3#245


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG3.TS.E2SM-R004-v07.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG3.TS.E2SM-R004-v07.00 Technical Specification O-RAN Work Group 3 (Near-RT RIC and E2 Interface)"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 23.905 [1], O-RAN WG1.TS.OAD [18], O-RAN WG3.TS.E2GAP [2] and the following apply: Format Type: The identifier used to nominate a specific formatting approach used to encode one of the E2AP IEs defined in this E2SM. RAN Function specific E2AP Information Element: An E2SM specific implementation of a container used to carry an O- RAN WG3.TS.E2AP [3] defined E2SM specific IE. Style Type: The identifier used to nominate a specific approach or Style used to expose a given RIC Service (REPORT, INSERT, CONTROL and POLICY).

## 3.2 Symbols
Void.

## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR 23.905 [1], O-RAN WG3.TS.E2GAP [2] and O-RAN WG1.TS.OAD [18] and the following apply: Void.

# 4 General

## 4.1 Procedure specification principles
The procedure specification principles defined in O-RAN WG3.TS.E2AP [3] clause 4 shall apply.

## 4.2 Forwards and backwards compatibility
The forwards and backwards compatibility of the E2 interface uses the forward and backwards compatibility compatibilities offered by the O-RAN WG3.TS.E2AP [3] protocol.

## 4.3 Specification notations
For the purposes of the present document, the following notations apply: IE When referring to an Information Element (IE) in the present document the Information Element Name is written with the first letters in each word in upper case characters and all letters in Italic font followed by the abbreviation "IE", e.g. E-RAB ID IE. Value of an IE When referring to the value of an Information Element (IE) in the present document the "Value" is written as it is specified in the present document enclosed by quotation marks, e.g. "Value".

# 5 E2SM services
As defined in O-RAN WG3.TS.E2GAP [2], a given RAN Function offers a set of RIC Services to be exposed over the E2 (REPORT, INSERT, CONTROL, POLICY, QUERY and/or ASSISTANCE) using O-RAN WG3.TS.E2AP [3] defined procedures. Each of the E2AP Procedures listed in table 5-1 contains specific E2 Node RAN Function dependent Information Elements (IEs) which shall be defined by a specific E2SM. and E2AP procedures RAN Function specific E2AP E2AP Information Element reference Related E2AP Procedures Information Elements RIC Event Trigger Definition IE O-RAN WG3.TS.E2AP [3] clause RIC Subscription

### 9.2.9 RIC Subscription Modification
RIC Action Definition IE O-RAN WG3.TS.E2AP [3] clause RIC Subscription

### 9.2.12 RIC Subscription Modification
RIC Assistance Header IE O-RAN WG3.TS.E2AP [3] clause RIC Assistance

### 9.2.47 RIC Assistance Indication
RIC Assistance Message IE O-RAN WG3.TS.E2AP [3] clause RIC Assistance 9.2.48 RIC Assistance Outcome IE O-RAN WG3.TS.E2AP [3] clause RIC Assistance

### 9.2.51 RIC Assistance Indication
RIC Indication Header IE O-RAN WG3.TS.E2AP [3] clause RIC Indication 9.2.17 RAN Function specific E2AP E2AP Information Element reference Related E2AP Procedures Information Elements RIC Indication Message IE O-RAN WG3.TS.E2AP [3] clause RIC Indication 9.2.16 RIC Call Process ID IE O-RAN WG3.TS.E2AP [3] clause RIC Indication

### 9.2.18 RIC Control
RIC Control Header IE O-RAN WG3.TS.E2AP [3] clause RIC Control 9.2.20 RIC Control Message IE O-RAN WG3.TS.E2AP [3] clause RIC Control 9.2.19 RIC Control Outcome IE O-RAN WG3.TS.E2AP [3] clause RIC Control 9.2.25 RIC Query Header IE O-RAN WG3.TS.E2AP [3] clause RIC Query 9.2.36 RIC Query Definition IE O-RAN WG3.TS.E2AP [3] clause RIC Query 9.2.37 RIC Query Outcome IE O-RAN WG3.TS.E2AP [3] clause RIC Query 9.2.38 RAN Function Definition IE O-RAN WG3.TS.E2AP [3] clause E2 Setup

### 9.2.23 RIC Service Update
Service Layer Cause IE O-RAN WG3.TS.E2AP [3] clause RIC Subscription

### 9.2.53 RIC Subscription modification
RIC Indication RIC Control RIC Query Error Indication E2 Setup RIC Service Update All of these RAN Function specific E2AP IEs are defined in O-RAN WG3.TS.E2AP [3] as “OCTET STRING”. The purpose of the E2SM series of specifications is to define the approach that a given RAN Function specific E2 Service Model shall use to define the contents of these fields. The supported O-RAN specified E2 Service Models are presented in table 5-2. E2SM short OID Syntax Scope name language E2SM-NI iso(1) identified- ASN.1 E2SM-NI “Network Interface” is used to define the O-RAN organization(3) dod(6) services exposed by a RAN function which performs the WG3.TS.E2SM- internet(1) private(4) following functionalities: NI [4] enterprise(1) 53148 - Exposure of Network Interfaces e2(1) version1 (1) - Modification of both incoming and outgoing network e2sm(2) e2sm-NI-IEs interface message contents (1) - Execution of policies that may result in change of network behavior E2SM-KPM iso(1) identified- ASN.1 E2SM-KPM “KPM Monitor” (version1) is used to define version1 organization(3) dod(6) the services exposed by a RAN function which performs O-RAN internet(1) private(4) the following functionalities: WG3.TS.E2SM- enterprise(1) 53148 - Exposure of O-DU’s cell related performance IEs KPM [5] e2(1) version1 (1) through periodic KPM Report. e2sm(2) e2sm- - Exposure of O-CU-CP’s cell/UE related performance KPMMON-IEs (2) IEs through periodic KPM Report.
- Exposure of O-CU-UP’s bearer related performance
IEs through periodic KPM Report E2SM-KPM iso(1) identified- ASN.1 E2SM-KPM “KPM Monitor” (version2) is used to define version2 organization(3) dod(6) the services exposed by a RAN function which performs O-RAN internet(1) private(4) the following functionalities: WG3.TS.E2SM- enterprise(1) 53148 - Exposure of available measurements from O-DU, O- KPM [5] e2(1) version2 (2) CU-CP, and/or O-CU-UP via the RAN Function Definition e2sm(2) e2sm- IE. KPMMON-IEs (2) - Periodic reporting of measurements subscribed from Near-RT RIC. E2SM-RC iso(1) identified- ASN.1 E2SM-RC “RAN Control” is used to define the services O-RAN organization(3) dod(6) exposed by a RAN function which performs the following WG3.TS.E2SM- internet(1) private(4) functionalities: RC [19] enterprise(1) 53148 - Exposure of RAN control and UE context related e2(1) version1 (1) information. e2sm(2) e2sm-RC-IEs - Modification and initiation of RAN control related call (3) processes and messages
- Execution of policies that may result in change of RAN
control behavior E2SM-CCC iso(1) identified- JSON E2SM-CCC “Cell Configuration and Control” is used to O-RAN organization(3) dod(6) define the services exposed by a RAN function which WG3.TS.E2SM- internet(1) private(4) performs the following functionalities: CCC [20] enterprise(1) 53148 - Exposure of node level and cell level configuration e2(1) version1 (1) information e2sm(2) e2sm-CCC-IEs - Initiate control and/or configuration of node level and (4) cell level parameters E2SM-LLC iso(1) identified- ASN.1 E2SM-LLC “Lower Layers Control” is used to define the O-RAN organization(3) dod(6) services exposed by a RAN function which performs the WG3.TS.E2SM- internet(1) private(4) following functionalities: LLC [22] enterprise(1) 53148 - Exposure of L1 and L2 information e2(1) version1(1) - Initiate control and/or configuration of L1 and L2 e2sm(2) e2sm-LLC- parameters IEs(5)

# 6 Common Information Elements for E2SM Service
Models

## 6.1 General
Clause 6.2 presents the individual Information Elements that may be adopted by any specific E2SM including the specifications listed in table 5-1. Clause 6.3 provides the corresponding ASN.1 definition of each Information Element, this module may be associated with the ASN.1 definitions in a specific E2SM specification using the ASN.1 "Import" instruction. The following attributes are used for the tabular description of the messages and information elements:
> NOTE: The messages have been defined in accordance with the guidelines specified in 3GPP TR 25.921 [i.2].

## 6.2 Information Element definitions

### 6.2.1 General
When specifying information elements which are to be represented by bit strings, if not otherwise specifically stated in the semantics description of the concerned IE or elsewhere, the following principle applies with regards to the ordering of bits:
- The first bit (leftmost bit) contains the Most Significant Bit (MSB).
- The last bit (rightmost bit) contains the Least Significant Bit (LSB).
- When importing bit strings from other specifications, the first bit of the bit string contains the first bit of the
concerned information.

### 6.2.2 E2SM common IEs

#### 6.2.2.1 RAN Function Name
This IE defines the name of a given RAN Function Name IE as a structured data. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description RAN Function Short Name M PrintableString(SIZE(1..150,...)) Suitable unique short name. RAN Function Service Model M PrintableString(SIZE(1..1000,...) Object Identifier of OID ) this specific E2SM. Formatted as per OID. RAN Function Description M PrintableString(SIZE(1..150,...)) Suitable text describing scope of E2SM. RAN Function Instance O INTEGER Suggested when E2 Node declares multiple RAN Function ID supporting the same E2SM specification.

#### 6.2.2.2 RIC Style Type
This IE defines the identifier of a given RIC Style. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description RIC Style Type M INTEGER

#### 6.2.2.3 RIC Style Name
This IE defines the name of a given RIC Style. The same E2SM may support more than one Style for each RIC Service. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description RIC Style Name M PrintableString(SIZE(1..150,...))

#### 6.2.2.4 RIC Format Type
This IE defines the identifier of a given RIC Format. The same E2SM may support more than one encoding Formats for each E2AP IE and each E2AP IE message encoding Format may be used by one or more RIC Service Styles. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description RIC Format Type M INTEGER

#### 6.2.2.5 Cell Global ID
This IE is used to globally identify a cell in an E2 Node. The IE is derived from 3GPP TS 38.423 [7] clause 9.2.3.25 "Target Cell Global ID". IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description CHOICE RAT type M >NR >>NR CGI M 6.2.3.7 >E-UTRA >>E-UTRA CGI M 6.2.3.11

#### 6.2.2.6 UE ID
This IE contains the O-RAN agreed UE ID data structure to be used on E2 interface. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference CHOICE UEID case M >gNB E2 Node of type gNB when connected to 5GC. >>AMF UE NGAP ID M 6.2.3.16 >>GUAMI M 6.2.3.17 >>gNB-CU UE F1AP ID C- More than 1 F1AP ID shall be List ifCUDUsep reported by E2 Node only when arated NR-DC is established. >>>gNB-CU UE F1AP 1 .. ID Item <maxF1APId > >>>>gNB-CU UE M 6.2.3.21 F1AP ID >>gNB-CU-CP UE E1AP C- ID List ifCPUPsep arated >>>gNB-CU-CP UE 1 .. E1AP ID Item <maxE1APId > >>>>gNB-CU-CP M 6.2.3.20 UE E1AP ID >>RAN UE ID O 6.2.3.25 >>M-NG-RAN node UE C- 6.2.3.19 To be reported by both MN and XnAP ID ifDCSetup SN. >>Global gNB ID 6.2.3.3 This IE shall not be used. Global

# O NG-RAN Node ID IE shall
replace this IE. >>Global NG-RAN Node C- 6.2.3.2 To be reported only by SN. ID ifDCSetup >>Cell RNTI O 6.2.2.17 >gNB-DU / en-gNB-DU E2 node of type gNB-DU. >>gNB-CU UE F1AP ID M 6.2.3.21 >>RAN UE ID O 6.2.3.25 >>Cell RNTI O 6.2.2.17 >gNB-CU-UP / en-gNB-CU- E2 node of type gNB-CU-UP. UP >>gNB-CU-CP UE E1AP M 6.2.3.20 ID >>RAN UE ID O 6.2.3.25 >ng-eNB E2 Node of type ng-eNB when connected to 5GC. >>AMF UE NGAP ID M 6.2.3.16 >>GUAMI M 6.2.3.17 >>ng-eNB-CU UE W1AP C- 6.2.3.22 ID ifCUDUsep arated >>M-NG-RAN node UE C- 6.2.3.19 To be reported by both MN and XnAP ID ifDCSetup SN. >>Global ng-eNB ID 6.2.3.8

# O This IE shall not be used. Global
NG-RAN Node ID IE shall replace this IE. >>Global NG-RAN Node C- 6.2.3.2 To be reported only by SN. ID ifDCSetup >>Cell RNTI O 6.2.2.17 >ng-eNB-DU E2 node of type ng-eNB-DU. >> ng-eNB-CU UE W1AP M 6.2.3.22 ID IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference >>Cell RNTI O 6.2.2.17 >en-gNB E2 Node of type en-gNB when connected to EPC and EN-DC is established. >>MeNB UE X2AP ID M 6.2.3.23 >>MeNB UE X2AP ID O 6.2.3.24 Extension >>Global eNB ID M 6.2.3.9 >>gNB-CU UE F1AP ID C- 6.2.3.21 ifCUDUsep arated >>gNB-CU-CP UE E1AP C- ID List ifCPUPsep arated >>>gNB-CU UE E1AP 1 .. ID Item <maxE1APId > >>>>gNB-CU-CP M 6.2.3.20 UE E1AP ID >> RAN UE ID O 6.2.3.25 >>Cell RNTI O 6.2.2.17 >eNB E2 Node of type eNB when connected to EPC. >>MME UE S1AP ID M 6.2.3.26 >>GUMMEI M 6.2.3.18 >>MeNB UE X2AP ID C- 6.2.3.23 To be reported by MeNB and ifDCSetup SeNB. >>MeNB UE X2AP ID C- 6.2.3.24 To be reported by MeNB and Extension ifDCSetup SeNB. >>Global eNB ID C- 6.2.3.9 To be reported only by SeNB. ifDCSetup >>Cell RNTI O 6.2.2.17 Range bound Explanation maxF1APId Maximum number of F1AP UEID for a NR-NR DC is 4. maxE1APId Maximum number of E1AP UEID for UE connected with different CU- UP is 65535. Condition Explanation ifDCSetup This IE shall be present in messages from E2 Node to NearRT-RIC if DC is established, whereas from NearRT-RIC to E2 Node messages, this IE may not be included. ifCUDUseparated This IE shall be present in messages from E2 Node to NearRT-RIC for a CU-DU separated ng-eNB or (en-)gNB, whereas from NearRT- RIC to E2 Node messages, this IE may not be included. ifCPUPseparated This IE shall be present in messages from E2 Node to NearRT-RIC for a CP-UP separated (en-)gNB, whereas from NearRT-RIC to E2 Node messages, this IE may not be included.

#### 6.2.2.7 Group ID
This IE defines a generic "Group ID" suitable for both EPC and 5GC networks. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description CHOICE Core type M >5GC >>IRFSP M 6.2.3.27 >EPC >>SPID M 6.2.3.28

#### 6.2.2.8 Core CP ID
This IE defines a generic "Core CP ID" suitable for both EPC and 5GC networks. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description CHOICE Core type M >5GC >>GUAMI M 6.2.3.17 >EPC >>GUMMEI M 6.2.3.18

#### 6.2.2.9 QoS ID
This IE defines a generic "QoS ID" suitable for both EPC and 5GC networks. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description CHOICE Core type M >5GC >>5QI M 6.2.3.13 >EPC >>QCI M 6.2.3.14

#### 6.2.2.10 Network Interface Type
This IE defines the type of a standardized Network Interface. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Interface Type M ENUMERATED (NG, Xn, F1, NG refers to NG interface 3GPP E1, S1, X2, W1, …) TS 38.413 [6]. Xn refers to Xn interface 3GPP TS 38.423 [7]. F1 refers to F1 interface 3GPP TS 38.473 [8]. E1 refers to E1 interface 3GPP TS 37.483 [9]. S1 refers to S1 interface 3GPP TS 36.413 [10]. X2 refers to X2 interface 3GPP TS 36.423 [11]. W1 refers to W1 interface 3GPP TS 37.473 [12].

#### 6.2.2.11 Network Interface Identifier
This IE defines the identifier of the network node terminating a specific network interface. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference CHOICE Interface Identifier M >NG For interface type NG 3GPP TS 38.413 [6]. >>GUAMI M 6.2.3.17 >Xn For interface type Xn 3GPP TS 38.423 [7]. >>Global NG-RAN Node ID M 6.2.3.2 >F1 For interface type F1 3GPP TS 38.473 [8]. >>Global gNB ID M 6.2.3.2 >>gNB-DU ID M 6.2.3.6 >E1 For interface type E1 3GPP TS 37.483 [9]. >>Global gNB ID M 6.2.3.2 >>gNB-CU-UP ID M 6.2.3.5 >S1 For interface type S1 3GPP TS 36.413 [10]. >>GUMMEI M 6.2.3.18 >X2 For interface type X2 3GPP TS 36.423 [11]. >>CHOICE Node Type M >>>Global eNB ID 6.2.3.9 For eNB. >>>Global en-gNB ID 6.2.3.4 For en-gNB. >W1 For interface type W1 3GPP TS 37.473 [12]. >>Global ng-eNB ID M 6.2.3.8 >>ng-eNB-DU ID M 6.2.3.10

#### 6.2.2.12 Network Interface Message ID
This IE defines the identifier for a specific message of a given Network Interface. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Interface Procedure ID M INTEGER Elementary Procedure Code. Message Type M ENUMERATED (InitiatingMessage, SuccessfulOutcome, UnsuccessfulOutcome, …)

#### 6.2.2.13 RRC Message ID
This IE defines the identifier for a specific RRC message defined in either 3GPP TS 36.331 [14] or 3GPP TS 38.331 [15]. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description CHOICE RRC Type M >LTE >>LTE RRC Class M ENUMERATED (BCCH- Refers to RRC message class BCH, BCCH-BCH-MBMS, defined in 3GPP TS 36.331 [14] BCCH-DL-SCH, BCCH- clause 6.2.1. DL-SCH-BR, BCCH-DL- SCH-MBMS, MCCH, PCCH, DL-CCCH, DL- DCCH, UL-CCCH, UL- DCCH, SC-MCCH, …) >NR >>NR RRC Class M ENUMERATED (BCCH- Refers to RRC message class BCH, BCCH-DL-SCH, DL- defined in 3GPP TS 38.331 [15] CCCH, DL-DCCH, PCCH, clause 6.2.1. UL-CCCH, UL-CCCH1, UL-DCCH, …) RRC Message ID M INTEGER Number starts from 0 from the first entry of a given RRC message class defined in 3GPP TS 36.331 [14] or TS 38.331 [15].

#### 6.2.2.14 Serving Cell PCI
This IE is used to identify the serving cell PCI in an E2 Node. The IE is derived from 3GPP TS 38.473 [8] clause 9.3.1.10 and 3GPP TS 36.423 [11] clause 9.2.8. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference CHOICE RAT type M >NR >>NR PCI M 6.2.3.29 >E-UTRA >>E-UTRA PCI M 6.2.3.32

#### 6.2.2.15 Serving Cell ARFCN
This IE is used to identify the serving cell ARFCN in an E2 Node. The IE is derived from 3GPP TS 38.473 [8] clause 9.3.1.17 and 3GPP TS 36.423 [11] clause 9.2.26. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description CHOICE RAT type M >NR >>NR ARFCN M 6.2.3.30 >E-UTRA >>EARFCN M 6.2.3.33

#### 6.2.2.16 Beam ID
This IE is used to identify the generic "Beam ID" suitable for NR Radio Access Technology (RAT). IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description CHOICE RAT M >NR >>NR SSB-index M 6.2.3.36 SSB-Index is used in NR as the Beam identifier.

#### 6.2.2.17 Cell RNTI
This represents a temporary UE Identifier in a cell in a Radio Network. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference C-RNTI M 6.2.3.37 Cell Global ID M 6.2.2.5 Identifies the cell where the C- RNTI is generated.

#### 6.2.2.18 Partial UE ID
This IE contains the UE ID data structure to be used for communication from Near-RT RIC to E2 Node. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference AMF UE NGAP ID O 6.2.3.16 GUAMI O 6.2.3.17 gNB-CU UE F1AP ID O 6.2.3.21 gNB-CU-CP UE E1AP ID O 6.2.3.20 RAN UE ID O 6.2.3.25 M-NG-RAN node UE XnAP O 6.2.3.19 ID Global NG-RAN Node ID O 6.2.3.2 Cell RNTI O 6.2.2.17 ng-eNB-CU UE W1AP ID O 6.2.3.22 MeNB UE X2AP ID O 6.2.3.23 MeNB UE X2AP ID O 6.2.3.24 Extension Global eNB ID O 6.2.3.9 MME UE S1AP ID O 6.2.3.26 GUMMEI O 6.2.3.18

### 6.2.3 3GPP derived IEs

#### 6.2.3.1 PLMN Identity
This IE indicates the PLMN Identity. Derived from 3GPP TS 38.413 [6] clause 9.3.3.5. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference PLMN Identity M OCTET STRING Defined in 3GPP TS 38.413 [6] (SIZE(3)) clause 9.3.3.5.

#### 6.2.3.2 Global NG-RAN Node ID
This IE is used to globally identify an NG-RAN node of gNB and ng-eNB cases only. Derived from 3GPP TS 38.423 [7] clause 9.2.2.3. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference CHOICE NG-RAN node M >gNB >>Global gNB ID M 6.2.3.3 >ng-eNB >>Global ng-eNB ID M 6.2.3.8

#### 6.2.3.3 Global gNB ID
This IE is used to globally identify a gNB. Derived from 3GPP TS 38.413 [6] clause 9.3.1.6. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference PLMN Identity M 6.2.3.1 CHOICE gNB ID M >gNB ID >>gNB ID M BIT STRING Defined in 3GPP TS 38.413 [6] (SIZE(22..32)) clause 9.3.1.6.

#### 6.2.3.4 Global en-gNB ID
This IE is used to globally identify an en-gNB. Derived from 3GPP TS 36.423 [11] clause 9.2.112. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description PLMN Identity M 6.2.3.1 CHOICE en-gNB ID M >en-gNB ID >>en-gNB ID M BIT STRING (SIZE(22..32)) Defined in 3GPP TS 36.423 [11] clause 9.2.112. 6.2.3.5 gNB-CU-UP ID This IE uniquely identifies the gNB-CU-UP at least within a gNB-CU-CP. Derived from 3GPP TS 37.483 [9] clause 9.3.1.15. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference gNB-CU-UP ID M INTEGER (0 Defined in 3GPP TS 37.483 [9] .. 236-1) clause 9.3.1.15. 6.2.3.6 gNB-DU ID This IE uniquely identifies the gNB-DU at least within a gNB-CU. Derived from 3GPP TS 38.473 [8] clause 9.3.1.9. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference gNB-DU ID M INTEGER (0 Defined in 3GPP TS 38.473 [8] .. 236-1) clause 9.3.1.9.

#### 6.2.3.7 NR CGI
This IE is used to globally identify an NR cell. Derived from 3GPP TS 38.413 [6] clause 9.3.1.7. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference PLMN Identity M 6.2.3.1 NR Cell Identity M BIT STRING Defined in 3GPP TS (SIZE(36)) 38.413 [6] clause 9.3.1.7.

#### 6.2.3.8 Global ng-eNB ID
This IE is used to globally identify an ng-eNB. Derived from 3GPP TS 38.413 [6] clause 9.3.1.8. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference PLMN Identity M 6.2.3.1 CHOICE ng-eNB ID M >Macro ng-eNB ID >>Macro ng-eNB ID M BIT STRING Defined in 3GPP TS 38.413 [6] (SIZE(20)) clause 9.3.1.8. >Short Macro ng-eNB ID >>Short Macro ng-eNB M BIT STRING Defined in 3GPP TS 38.413 [6] ID (SIZE(18)) clause 9.3.1.8. >Long Macro ng-eNB ID >>Long Macro ng-eNB ID M BIT STRING Defined in 3GPP TS 38.413 [6] (SIZE(21)) clause 9.3.1.8.

#### 6.2.3.9 Global eNB ID
This IE is used to globally identify an eNB. Derived from 3GPP TS 36.413 [10] clause 9.2.1.37. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference PLMN Identity M 6.2.3.1 CHOICE eNB ID M >Macro eNB ID >>Macro eNB ID M BIT STRING Defined in 3GPP TS 36.413 [10] clause (SIZE(20)) 9.2.1.37. >Home eNB ID >>Home eNB ID M BIT STRING Defined in 3GPP TS 36.413 [10] clause (SIZE(28)) 9.2.1.37. >Short Macro eNB ID >> Short Macro M BIT STRING Defined in 3GPP TS 36.413 [10] clause eNB ID (SIZE(18)) 9.2.1.37. >Long Macro eNB ID >> Long Macro M BIT STRING Defined in 3GPP TS 36.413 [10] clause eNB ID (SIZE(21)) 9.2.1.37. 6.2.3.10 ng-eNB-DU ID This IE uniquely identifies the ng-eNB-DU at least within an ng-eNB-CU. Derived from 3GPP TS 37.473 [12] clause 9.3.1.9. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference ng-eNB-DU ID M INTEGER (0 .. Defined in 3GPP TS 37.473 [12] 236-1) clause 9.3.1.9.

#### 6.2.3.11 E-UTRA CGI
This IE is used to globally identify an E-UTRA cell. Derived from 3GPP TS 38.413 [6] clause 9.3.1.9. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference PLMN Identity M 6.2.3.1 E-UTRA Cell Identity M BIT STRING Defined in 3GPP TS (SIZE(28)) 38.413 [6] clause 9.3.1.9.

#### 6.2.3.12 S-NSSAI
This IE is used to indicate the S-NSSAI. Derived from 3GPP TS 38.413 [6] clause 9.3.1.24. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description SST M OCTET STRING Defined in 3GPP TS 38.413 [6] (SIZE(1)) clause 9.3.1.24. SD O OCTET STRING Defined in 3GPP TS 38.413 [6] (SIZE(3)) clause 9.3.1.24.

#### 6.2.3.13 5QI
This IE is used to indicate 5QI value. Derived from 3GPP TS 38.413 [6] clause 9.3.1.28. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description 5QI M INTEGER (0..255, ...) Defined in 3GPP TS 38.413 [6] clause 9.3.1.28.

#### 6.2.3.14 QCI
This IE is used to indicate QCI value. Derived from 3GPP TS 36.413 [10] clause 9.2.1.15. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description QCI M INTEGER (0..255) Defined in 3GPP TS 36.413 [10] clause 9.2.1.15.

#### 6.2.3.15 QoS Flow Identifier (QFI)
This IE identifies a QoS flow within a PDU Session. Derived from 3GPP TS 38.413 [6] clause 9.3.1.51. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference QoS Flow Identifier M INTEGER (0..63, …) Defined in 3GPP TS 38.413 [6] clause 9.3.1.51.

#### 6.2.3.16 AMF UE NGAP ID
This IE uniquely identifies a UE over the NG interface within a NG-RAN node. Derived from 3GPP TS 38.413 [6] clause 9.3.3.1. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference AMF UE NGAP ID M INTEGER (0..240 -1) Defined in 3GPP TS 38.413 [6] clause 9.3.3.1.

#### 6.2.3.17 GUAMI
This IE indicates the AMF identity. Derived from 3GPP TS 38.413 [6] clause 9.3.3.3. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference PLMN Identity M 6.2.3.1 AMF Region ID M BIT STRING (SIZE(8)) AMF Set ID M BIT STRING Defined in 3GPP TS 38.413 [6] (SIZE(10)) clause 9.3.3.12. AMF Pointer M BIT STRING Defined in 3GPP TS 38.413 [6] (SIZE(6)) clause 9.3.3.19.

#### 6.2.3.18 GUMMEI
This IE indicates the globally unique MME identity. Derived from 3GPP TS 36.413 [10] clause 9.2.3.9. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference PLMN Identity M 6.2.3.1 MME Group ID M OCTET STRING (SIZE(2)) MME code M OCTET STRING Defined in 3GPP TS (SIZE (1)) 36.413 [10] clause 9.2.3.12.

#### 6.2.3.19 NG-RAN Node UE XnAP ID
This IE uniquely identifies a UE over the Xn interface within a NG-RAN node. Derived from 3GPP TS 38.423 [7] clause 9.2.3.16. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description NG-RAN node UE XnAP M INTEGER (0 .. 232 -1) Defined in 3GPP TS 38.423 ID [7] clause 9.2.3.16. 6.2.3.20 gNB-CU-CP UE E1AP ID This IE uniquely identifies a UE over the E1 interface within a gNB-CU-CP. Derived from 3GPP TS 37.483 [9] clause 9.3.1.4. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference gNB-CU-CP UE E1AP ID M INTEGER Defined in 3GPP TS 37.483 [9] (0 .. 232 -1) clause 9.3.1.4. 6.2.3.21 gNB-CU UE F1AP ID This IE uniquely identifies a UE over the F1 interface within a gNB-CU. Derived from 3GPP TS 38.473 [8] clause 9.3.1.4. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference gNB-CU UE F1AP ID M INTEGER Defined in 3GPP TS 38.473 [8] (0 .. 232 -1) clause 9.3.1.4. 6.2.3.22 ng-eNB-CU UE W1AP ID This IE uniquely identifies a UE over the W1 interface within an ng-eNB-CU. Derived from 3GPP TS 37.473 [12] clause 9.3.1.4. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference ng-eNB-CU UE W1AP ID M INTEGER (0 .. Defined in 3GPP TS 37.473 [12]

# 232 -1) clause 9.3.1.4.
6.2.3.23 eNB UE X2AP ID This IE, combined with the eNB UE X2AP ID Extension when present regardless its value, uniquely identifies a UE over the X2 interface within an eNB. Derived from 3GPP TS 36.423 [11] clause 9.2.24. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference eNB UE X2AP ID M INTEGER Defined in 3GPP TS (0..4095) 36.423 [11] clause 9.2.24. 6.2.3.24 eNB UE X2AP ID Extension This IE, combined with the eNB UE X2AP ID uniquely identifies a UE over the X2 interface within an eNB. If the setup of an UE associated signalling connection was initiated including the eNB UE X2AP ID Extension, the eNB UE X2AP ID Extension shall be used by both peers for the life-time of the respective UE-associated signalling connection. Derived from 3GPP TS 36.423 [11] clause 9.2.86. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference eNB UE X2AP ID Extension M INTEGER Defined in 3GPP TS (0..4095, …) 36.423 [11] clause 9.2.86.

#### 6.2.3.25 RAN UE ID
This UE Identifier identifies an UE over E1 and F1 interface within a gNB. Derived from 3GPP TS 38.473 [8] clause 9.2.2.1. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference RAN UE ID O OCTET Defined in 3GPP TS 38.473 [8] STRING clause 9.2.2.1. (SIZE (8))

#### 6.2.3.26 MME UE S1AP ID
This IE uniquely identifies a UE over the S1 interface within a MME. Derived from 3GPP TS 36.413 [10] clause 9.2.3.3. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference MME UE S1AP ID M INTEGER Defined in 3GPP TS 36.413 (0 .. 232 -1) [10] clause 9.2.3.3.

#### 6.2.3.27 Index to RAT/Frequency Selection Priority (IRFSP)
This IE is used to define local configuration for RRM strategies such as camp priorities in Idle mode and control of inter- RAT/inter-frequency handover in Active mode. Derived from 3GPP TS 38.413 [6] clause 9.3.1.61. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference Index to RAT/Frequency M INTEGER (1..256, Defined in 3GPP TS 38.413 [6] Selection Priority …) clause 9.3.1.61.

#### 6.2.3.28 Subscriber Profile ID for RAT/Frequency priority (SPID)
This IE is used to define camp priorities in Idle mode and to control inter-RAT/inter-frequency handover in Active mode. Derived from 3GPP TS 36.413 [10] clause 9.2.1.39. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference Subscriber Profile ID for M INTEGER (1..256) Defined in 3GPP TS 36.413 RAT/Frequency Priority [10] clause 9.2.1.39.

#### 6.2.3.29 NR PCI
This IE is used to identify an NR cell PCI. Derived from 3GPP TS 38.473 [8] clause 9.3.1.10. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference NR PCI M INTEGER Derived from 3GPP TS (0.. 1007) 38.473 [8] clause 9.3.1.10.

#### 6.2.3.30 NR ARFCN
This IE is used to identify an NR ARFCN. Derived from 3GPP TS 38.473 [8] clause 9.3.1.17. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE Type and Semantics Description Reference NR ARFCN M INTEGER Derived from 3GPP TS (0..maxNRARFCN) 38.473 [8] clause 9.3.1.17. Range bound Explanation maxNRARFCN Maximum value of NR ARFCNs. Value is 3279165.

#### 6.2.3.31 5GS TAC
This IE is used to identify 5GS Tracking Area Code. Defined in 3GPP TS 38.473 [8] clause 9.3.1.29. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference 5GS TAC M OCTET STRING Defined in 3GPP TS (SIZE (3)) 38.473 [8] clause 9.3.1.29.

#### 6.2.3.32 E-UTRA PCI
This IE is used to identify an E-UTRA cell PCI. Derived from 3GPP TS 36.423 [11] clause 9.2.8. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference E-UTRA PCI M INTEGER Derived from 3GPP TS (0.. 503, …) 36.423 [11] clause 9.2.8.

#### 6.2.3.33 E-UTRA ARFCN
This IE is used to identify an E-UTRA Frequency Info. Defined in 3GPP TS 36.423 [11] clause 9.2.26. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE Type and Semantics Description Reference EARFCN M INTEGER (0.. Defined in 3GPP TS maxEARFCN) 36.423 [11] clause 9.2.26. Range bound Explanation maxEARFCN Maximum value of EARFCNs. Value is 65535.

#### 6.2.3.34 E-UTRA TAC
This IE is used to identify an E-UTRA Tracking Area Code. Derived from 3GPP TS 36.423 [11] clause 9.2.8. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description E-UTRA TAC M OCTET STRING Derived from 3GPP TS (SIZE(2)) 36.423 [11] clause 9.2.8.

#### 6.2.3.35 NR Frequency Info
This IE is used to define the carrier frequency and bands used in a cell. Derived from 3GPP TS 38.473 [8] clause 9.3.1.17. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE Type and Reference Semantics Description NR ARFCN M 6.2.3.30 NR Frequency 1 Band List >NR Frequency 1..<maxnoofNRCellBands> Band Item >>NR M INTEGER (1.. 1024, ...) Defined in 3GPP TS 38.473 Frequency Band [8] clause 9.3.1.17. >>Supported 0..<maxnoofNRCellBands> SUL band List >>>Supported M INTEGER (1.. 1024, ...) Defined in 3GPP TS 38.473 SUL band Item [8] clause 9.3.1.17. NRFrequency Shift O ENUMERATED (false, Defined in 3GPP TS 38.473 7p5khz true, ...) [8] clause 9.3.1.17. Range bound Explanation maxnoofNRCellBands Maximum no. of frequency bands supported for a NR cell. Value is 32.

#### 6.2.3.36 NR SSB-Index
This IE is used to identify the NR SSB-Index. Derived from 3GPP TS 38.331 [15] clause 6.3.2. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference SSB-Index M INTEGER Derived from 3GPP TS (0.. maxNrofSSBs- 38.331 [15] clause 6.3.2. 1) Range bound Explanation maxNrofSSBs-1 Maximum number of SSB resources in a resource set minus 1. Value is 63.

#### 6.2.3.37 C-RNTI
This represents a temporary UE Identifier in a cell in a Radio Network. Derived from 3GPP TS 38.331 [15] clause 6.3.2. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference C-RNTI M INTEGER Defined in 3GPP TS 38.331 (0..65535) [15] clause 6.3.2.

## 6.3 Information Element Abstract Syntax (with ASN.1)

### 6.3.1 General
E2SM ASN.1 definition conforms to ITU-T Rec. X.680 [16] and ITU-T Rec. X.681 [17]. Clause 6.3.2 presents the Abstract Syntax of the common E2SM information elements that may be used with RAN Function specific O-RAN WG3.TS.E2AP [3] Information Elements when encoded using ASN.1. In case there is contradiction between the ASN.1 definition in this clause and the tabular format in clause 6.2, the ASN.1 shall take precedence, except for the definition of conditions for the presence of conditional elements, in which the tabular format shall take precedence.

### 6.3.2 Information Element definitions
-- ASN1START -- ************************************************************** -- E2SM -- Information Element Definitions -- -- ************************************************************** E2SM-COMMON-IEs { iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1) private(4) enterprise(1) 53148 e2(1) version1(1) e2sm(2) e2sm-COMMON-IEs(0)} DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::= BEGIN -- -------------------------------------------------- -- Constants -- -------------------------------------------------- maxE1APid INTEGER ::= 65535 maxF1APid INTEGER ::= 4 -- IEs derived from 3GPP 36.423 (X2AP) maxEARFCN INTEGER ::= 65535 -- IEs derived from 3GPP 38.473 (F1AP) maxNRARFCN INTEGER ::= 3279165 maxnoofNrCellBands INTEGER ::= 32 -- IEs derived from 3GPP 38.331 (NR RRC) maxNrofSSBs-1 INTEGER ::= 63 -- -------------------------------------------------- -- E2SM Common IEs -- -------------------------------------------------- Beam-ID ::= CHOICE { nR-Beam-ID NR-SSB-Index, ... } Cell-RNTI ::= SEQUENCE { c-RNTI RNTI-Value, cell-Global-ID CGI, ... } CGI ::= CHOICE { nR-CGI NR-CGI, eUTRA-CGI EUTRA-CGI, ... } CoreCPID ::= CHOICE { fiveGC GUAMI, ePC GUMMEI, ... } InterfaceIdentifier ::= CHOICE { nG InterfaceID-NG, xN InterfaceID-Xn, f1 InterfaceID-F1, e1 InterfaceID-E1, s1 InterfaceID-S1, x2 InterfaceID-X2, w1 InterfaceID-W1, ... } InterfaceID-NG ::= SEQUENCE { guami GUAMI, ... } InterfaceID-Xn ::= SEQUENCE { global-NG-RAN-ID GlobalNGRANNodeID, ... } InterfaceID-F1 ::= SEQUENCE { globalGNB-ID GlobalGNB-ID, gNB-DU-ID GNB-DU-ID, ... } InterfaceID-E1 ::= SEQUENCE { globalGNB-ID GlobalGNB-ID, gNB-CU-UP-ID GNB-CU-UP-ID, ... } InterfaceID-S1 ::= SEQUENCE { gUMMEI GUMMEI, ... } InterfaceID-X2 ::= SEQUENCE { nodeType CHOICE { global-eNB-ID GlobalENB-ID, global-en-gNB-ID GlobalenGNB-ID, ... }, ... } InterfaceID-W1 ::= SEQUENCE { global-ng-eNB-ID GlobalNgENB-ID, ng-eNB-DU-ID NGENB-DU-ID, ... } Interface-MessageID ::= SEQUENCE { interfaceProcedureID INTEGER, messageType ENUMERATED {initiatingMessage, successfulOutcome, unsuccessfulOutcome, ...}, ... } InterfaceType ::= ENUMERATED {nG, xn, f1, e1, s1, x2, w1, ...} GroupID ::= CHOICE { fiveGC FiveQI, ePC QCI, ... } PartialUEID ::= SEQUENCE { amf-UE-NGAP-ID AMF-UE-NGAP-ID OPTIONAL, guami GUAMI OPTIONAL, gNB-CU-UE-F1AP-ID GNB-CU-UE-F1AP-ID OPTIONAL, gNB-CU-CP-UE-E1AP-ID GNB-CU-CP-UE-E1AP-ID OPTIONAL, ran-UEID RANUEID OPTIONAL, m-NG-RAN-UE-XnAP-ID NG-RANnodeUEXnAPID OPTIONAL, globalNG-RANNode-ID GlobalNGRANNodeID OPTIONAL, cell-RNTI Cell-RNTI OPTIONAL, ng-eNB-CU-UE-W1AP-ID NGENB-CU-UE-W1AP-ID OPTIONAL, m-eNB-UE-X2AP-ID ENB-UE-X2AP-ID OPTIONAL, m-eNB-UE-X2AP-ID-Extension ENB-UE-X2AP-ID-Extension OPTIONAL, globalENB-ID GlobalENB-ID OPTIONAL, mME-UE-S1AP-ID MME-UE-S1AP-ID OPTIONAL, gUMMEI GUMMEI OPTIONAL, ... } QoSID ::= CHOICE { fiveGC FiveQI, ePC QCI, ... } RANfunction-Name ::= SEQUENCE{ ranFunction-ShortName PrintableString(SIZE(1..150,...)), ranFunction-E2SM-OID PrintableString(SIZE(1..1000,...)), ranFunction-Description PrintableString(SIZE(1..150,...)), ranFunction-Instance INTEGER OPTIONAL, ... } RIC-Format-Type ::= INTEGER RIC-Style-Type ::= INTEGER RIC-Style-Name ::= PrintableString(SIZE(1..150,...)) RRC-MessageID ::= SEQUENCE { rrcType CHOICE { lTE RRCclass-LTE, nR RRCclass-NR, ... }, messageID INTEGER, ... } RRCclass-LTE ::= ENUMERATED {bCCH-BCH, bCCH-BCH-MBMS, bCCH-DL-SCH, bCCH-DL-SCH-BR, bCCH-DL-SCH-MBMS, mCCH, pCCH, dL-CCCH, dL-DCCH, uL-CCCH, uL-DCCH, sC-MCCH, ...} RRCclass-NR ::= ENUMERATED {bCCH-BCH, bCCH-DL-SCH, dL-CCCH, dL-DCCH, pCCH, uL-CCCH, uL-CCCH1, uL-DCCH, ...} ServingCell-ARFCN ::= CHOICE { nR NR-ARFCN, eUTRA E-UTRA-ARFCN, ... } ServingCell-PCI ::= CHOICE { nR NR-PCI, eUTRA E-UTRA-PCI, ... } UEID ::= CHOICE{ gNB-UEID UEID-GNB, gNB-DU-UEID UEID-GNB-DU, gNB-CU-UP-UEID UEID-GNB-CU-UP, ng-eNB-UEID UEID-NG-ENB, ng-eNB-DU-UEID UEID-NG-ENB-DU, en-gNB-UEID UEID-EN-GNB, eNB-UEID UEID-ENB, ... } UEID-GNB ::= SEQUENCE{ amf-UE-NGAP-ID AMF-UE-NGAP-ID, guami GUAMI, gNB-CU-UE-F1AP-ID-List UEID-GNB-CU-F1AP-ID-List OPTIONAL, -- C-ifCUDUseparated: This IE shall be present in messages from E2 Node to NearRT-RIC for a CU-DU separated gNB, whereas from NearRT-RIC to E2 Node messages, this IE may not be included. More than 1 F1AP ID shall be reported by E2 Node only when NR-DC is established. gNB-CU-CP-UE-E1AP-ID-List UEID-GNB-CU-CP-E1AP-ID-List OPTIONAL, -- C-ifCPUPseparated: This IE shall be present in messages from E2 Node to NearRT-RIC for a CP-UP separated gNB, whereas from NearRT-RIC to E2 Node messages, this IE may not be included. ran-UEID RANUEID OPTIONAL, m-NG-RAN-UE-XnAP-ID NG-RANnodeUEXnAPID OPTIONAL, -- C-ifDCSetup: This IE shall be present in messages from E2 Node to NearRT-RIC if DC is established, whereas from NearRT-RIC to E2 Node messages, this IE may not be included. To be reported by both MN and SN. globalGNB-ID GlobalGNB-ID OPTIONAL, -- This IE shall not be used. This IE is replaced with globalNG-RANNode-ID. ..., globalNG-RANNode-ID GlobalNGRANNodeID OPTIONAL, -- C-ifDCSetup: This IE shall be present in messages from E2 Node to NearRT-RIC if DC is established, whereas from NearRT-RIC to E2 Node messages, this IE may not be included. To be reported only by SN. cell-RNTI Cell-RNTI OPTIONAL } UEID-GNB-CU-CP-E1AP-ID-List ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxE1APid)) OF UEID-GNB-CU-CP-E1AP-ID-Item UEID-GNB-CU-CP-E1AP-ID-Item ::= SEQUENCE{ gNB-CU-CP-UE-E1AP-ID GNB-CU-CP-UE-E1AP-ID, ... } UEID-GNB-CU-F1AP-ID-List ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxF1APid)) OF UEID-GNB-CU-CP-F1AP-ID-Item UEID-GNB-CU-CP-F1AP-ID-Item ::= SEQUENCE{ gNB-CU-UE-F1AP-ID GNB-CU-UE-F1AP-ID, ... } UEID-GNB-DU ::= SEQUENCE{ gNB-CU-UE-F1AP-ID GNB-CU-UE-F1AP-ID, ran-UEID RANUEID OPTIONAL, ..., cell-RNTI Cell-RNTI OPTIONAL } UEID-GNB-CU-UP ::= SEQUENCE{ gNB-CU-CP-UE-E1AP-ID GNB-CU-CP-UE-E1AP-ID, ran-UEID RANUEID OPTIONAL, ... } UEID-NG-ENB ::= SEQUENCE{ amf-UE-NGAP-ID AMF-UE-NGAP-ID, guami GUAMI, ng-eNB-CU-UE-W1AP-ID NGENB-CU-UE-W1AP-ID OPTIONAL, -- C-ifCUDUseparated: This IE shall be present in messages from E2 Node to NearRT-RIC for a CU-DU separated ng-eNB, whereas from NearRT-RIC to E2 Node messages, this IE may not be included. m-NG-RAN-UE-XnAP-ID NG-RANnodeUEXnAPID OPTIONAL, -- C-ifDCSetup: This IE shall be present in messages from E2 Node to NearRT-RIC if DC is established, whereas from NearRT-RIC to E2 Node messages, this IE may not be included. To be reported by both MN and SN. globalNgENB-ID GlobalNgENB-ID OPTIONAL, -- This IE shall not be used. This IE is replaced with globalNG-RANNode-ID. ..., globalNG-RANNode-ID GlobalNGRANNodeID OPTIONAL, -- C-ifDCSetup: This IE shall be present in messages from E2 Node to NearRT-RIC if DC is established, whereas from NearRT-RIC to E2 Node messages, this IE may not be included. To be reported only by SN. cell-RNTI Cell-RNTI OPTIONAL } UEID-NG-ENB-DU ::= SEQUENCE{ ng-eNB-CU-UE-W1AP-ID NGENB-CU-UE-W1AP-ID, ..., cell-RNTI Cell-RNTI OPTIONAL } UEID-EN-GNB ::= SEQUENCE{ m-eNB-UE-X2AP-ID ENB-UE-X2AP-ID, m-eNB-UE-X2AP-ID-Extension ENB-UE-X2AP-ID-Extension OPTIONAL, globalENB-ID GlobalENB-ID, gNB-CU-UE-F1AP-ID GNB-CU-UE-F1AP-ID OPTIONAL, -- C-ifCUDUseparated: This IE shall be present in messages from E2 Node to NearRT-RIC for a CU-DU separated en-gNB, whereas from NearRT-RIC to E2 Node messages, this IE may not be included. gNB-CU-CP-UE-E1AP-ID-List UEID-GNB-CU-CP-E1AP-ID-List OPTIONAL, -- C-ifCPUPseparated: This IE shall be present in messages from E2 Node to NearRT-RIC for a CP-UP separated en-gNB, whereas from NearRT-RIC to E2 Node messages, this IE may not be included. ran-UEID RANUEID OPTIONAL, ..., cell-RNTI Cell-RNTI OPTIONAL } UEID-ENB ::= SEQUENCE{ mME-UE-S1AP-ID MME-UE-S1AP-ID, gUMMEI GUMMEI, m-eNB-UE-X2AP-ID ENB-UE-X2AP-ID OPTIONAL, -- This IE shall be present in messages from E2 Node to NearRT-RIC if DC is established, whereas from NearRT-RIC to E2 Node messages, this IE may not be included. To be reported by MeNB and SeNB. m-eNB-UE-X2AP-ID-Extension ENB-UE-X2AP-ID-Extension OPTIONAL, globalENB-ID GlobalENB-ID OPTIONAL, -- This IE shall be present in messages from E2 Node to NearRT-RIC if DC is established, whereas from NearRT-RIC to E2 Node messages, this IE may not be included. To be reported only by SeNB. ..., cell-RNTI Cell-RNTI OPTIONAL } -- ************************************************************** -- 3GPP derived IEs -- ************************************************************** -- NOTE: -- - Extension fields removed and replaced with "..." -- - IE names modified across all extracts to use "PLMNIdentity" -- ************************************************************** -- IEs derived from 3GPP 36.413 (S1AP) -- ************************************************************** -- ************************************************************** ENB-ID ::= CHOICE { macro-eNB-ID BIT STRING (SIZE (20)), home-eNB-ID BIT STRING (SIZE (28)), ... , short-Macro-eNB-ID BIT STRING (SIZE(18)), long-Macro-eNB-ID BIT STRING (SIZE(21)) } GlobalENB-ID ::= SEQUENCE { pLMNIdentity PLMNIdentity, eNB-ID ENB-ID, ... } GUMMEI ::= SEQUENCE { pLMN-Identity PLMNIdentity, mME-Group-ID MME-Group-ID, mME-Code MME-Code, ... } MME-Group-ID ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (2)) MME-Code ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1)) MME-UE-S1AP-ID ::= INTEGER (0..4294967295) QCI ::= INTEGER (0..255) SubscriberProfileIDforRFP ::= INTEGER (1..256) -- ************************************************************** -- IEs derived from 3GPP 36.423 (X2AP) -- ************************************************************** -- Extension fields removed. -- Note: to avoid duplicate names with NGAP, XnAP, etc.: -- GNB-ID renamed ENGNB-ID, -- GlobalGNB-ID renamed GlobalenGNB-ID, -- UE-X2AP-ID renamed ENB-UE-X2AP-ID -- UE-X2AP-ID-Extension renamed ENB-UE-X2AP-ID-Extension -- ************************************************************** EN-GNB-ID ::= CHOICE { en-gNB-ID BIT STRING (SIZE (22..32)), ... } ENB-UE-X2AP-ID ::= INTEGER (0..4095) ENB-UE-X2AP-ID-Extension ::= INTEGER (0..4095, ...) E-UTRA-ARFCN ::= INTEGER (0..maxEARFCN) E-UTRA-PCI ::= INTEGER (0..503, ...) E-UTRA-TAC ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(2)) GlobalenGNB-ID ::= SEQUENCE { pLMN-Identity PLMNIdentity, en-gNB-ID EN-GNB-ID, ... } -- ************************************************************** -- IEs derived from 3GPP 37.473 (W1AP) -- ************************************************************** NGENB-CU-UE-W1AP-ID ::= INTEGER (0..4294967295) NGENB-DU-ID ::= INTEGER (0..68719476735) -- ************************************************************** -- IEs derived from 3GPP 38.331 (NR RRC) -- ************************************************************** NR-SSB-Index ::= INTEGER (0..maxNrofSSBs-1) RNTI-Value ::= INTEGER (0..65535) -- ************************************************************** -- IEs derived from 3GPP 38.413 (NGAP) -- Extension fields removed and replaced with ... -- ************************************************************** AMFPointer ::= BIT STRING (SIZE(6)) AMFRegionID ::= BIT STRING (SIZE(8)) AMFSetID ::= BIT STRING (SIZE(10)) AMF-UE-NGAP-ID ::= INTEGER (0..1099511627775) EUTRACellIdentity ::= BIT STRING (SIZE(28)) EUTRA-CGI ::= SEQUENCE { pLMNIdentity PLMNIdentity, eUTRACellIdentity EUTRACellIdentity, ... } FiveQI ::= INTEGER (0..255, ...) GlobalGNB-ID ::= SEQUENCE { pLMNIdentity PLMNIdentity, gNB-ID GNB-ID, ... } GlobalNgENB-ID ::= SEQUENCE { pLMNIdentity PLMNIdentity, ngENB-ID NgENB-ID, ... } GNB-ID ::= CHOICE { gNB-ID BIT STRING (SIZE(22..32)), ... } GUAMI ::= SEQUENCE { pLMNIdentity PLMNIdentity, aMFRegionID AMFRegionID, aMFSetID AMFSetID, aMFPointer AMFPointer, ... } IndexToRFSP ::= INTEGER (1..256, ...) NgENB-ID ::= CHOICE { macroNgENB-ID BIT STRING (SIZE(20)), shortMacroNgENB-ID BIT STRING (SIZE(18)), longMacroNgENB-ID BIT STRING (SIZE(21)), ... } NRCellIdentity ::= BIT STRING (SIZE(36)) NR-CGI ::= SEQUENCE { pLMNIdentity PLMNIdentity, nRCellIdentity NRCellIdentity, ... } PLMNIdentity ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(3)) QosFlowIdentifier ::= INTEGER (0..63, ...) SD ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(3)) S-NSSAI ::= SEQUENCE { sST SST, sD SD OPTIONAL, ... } SST ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1)) -- ************************************************************** -- IEs derived from 3GPP 38.423 (XnAP) -- ************************************************************** NG-RANnodeUEXnAPID ::= INTEGER (0.. 4294967295) GlobalNGRANNodeID ::= CHOICE { gNB GlobalGNB-ID, ng-eNB GlobalNgENB-ID, ... } -- ************************************************************** -- IEs derived from 3GPP 37.483 (E1AP) -- ************************************************************** GNB-CU-CP-UE-E1AP-ID ::= INTEGER (0..4294967295) GNB-CU-UP-ID ::= INTEGER (0..68719476735) -- ************************************************************** -- IEs derived from 3GPP 38.473 (F1AP) -- ************************************************************** FiveGS-TAC ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(3)) FreqBandNrItem ::= SEQUENCE { freqBandIndicatorNr INTEGER (1..1024, ...), ... } GNB-CU-UE-F1AP-ID ::= INTEGER (0..4294967295) GNB-DU-ID ::= INTEGER (0..68719476735) NR-PCI ::= INTEGER (0..1007) NR-ARFCN ::= SEQUENCE { nRARFCN INTEGER (0..maxNRARFCN), ... } NRFrequencyBand-List ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofNrCellBands)) OF NRFrequencyBandItem NRFrequencyBandItem ::= SEQUENCE { freqBandIndicatorNr INTEGER (1..1024,...), supportedSULBandList SupportedSULBandList, ... } NRFrequencyInfo ::= SEQUENCE { nrARFCN NR-ARFCN, frequencyBand-List NRFrequencyBand-List, frequencyShift7p5khz NRFrequencyShift7p5khz OPTIONAL, ... } NRFrequencyShift7p5khz ::= ENUMERATED {false, true, ...} RANUEID ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (8)) SupportedSULBandList ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(0..maxnoofNrCellBands)) OF SupportedSULFreqBandItem SupportedSULFreqBandItem ::= SEQUENCE { freqBandIndicatorNr INTEGER (1..1024,...), ... } END -- ASN1STOP

### 6.3.3 Message transfer syntax
E2SM shall use the ASN.1 Basic Packed Encoding Rules (BASIC-PER) Aligned Variant as transfer syntax, as specified in ITU-T Rec. X.691 [21]. Annex (informative): Change History Date Revision Description Reference corrected in table in 8.2.2.1 2021.05.28 v02.00.01 Inclusion of CR agreed at WG3#99 < NOK.AO-2021.05.05-WG3-CR-0001- E2SM+common+IEs-v01 >. Endorsed as WG3#100 2021.07.07 v02.00.02 Adopted INT.AO-CR-0010. 2021.11.09 V02.01.01 Inclusion of CR agreed at WG3#117 <RSYS-2021.10.05-WG3-CR-0001-E2SM-Common- Correction for UEID and NRARFCN_v0.5> Alignment of copyright notice

### 2021.11.22 V02.01.02 Corrections based on WG3 review comments during WG3 approval process
corrections

### 2022.10.27 V02.01.01 Addition of CR:
< NOK-2022.09.01-WG3-CR-0003-E2SM-E1AP reference correction-v03> error in CR corrected (ref [9] should be 37.483) < NOK-2022.10.31-WG3-CR-0004-E2SM-E2SM-CCC table entry-v01 > Aligned for specification to latest O-RAN template

### 2022.11.10 V02.01.02 Addition of CR:
<QCM.AO-2022.10.27-WG3-CR-0001-E2SM-RIC Query-v03>

### 2022.11.16 V02.01.03 Changes reflecting remarks received during WG3 approval process
- Alignment to latest O-RAN template
- Added R003 to file name
- Updated copyright year
- Corrected error in CRs implemented in previous drafts
2023.02.16 V03.00.01 CR <NOK-2023.02.08-WG3-CR-0006-E2SM-PAS step1-v02> approved Prague F2F 16/2/2023

### 2023.03.24 V03.00.02 Inclusion of corrections agreed during WG3 approval process as per <O- RAN.WG3.E2SM-R003-v03.00.01-ApprovalChanges-v2>
2023.05.15 V03.01.01 CR <NOK-2023.01.23-WG3-CR-0005-E2SM-Beam-ID-v02> approved WG3#180 CR <NOK-2023.04.28-WG3-CR-0007-E2SM-Correction to clause 2.1-v01> approved WG3#183 2023.06.27 V03.01.02 CR <QCM-2023.04.17-WG3-CR-0002-E2SM-Addition of C-RNTI-v01> approved F2F Osaka Editorial correction to ASN.1 variable name "nR-Beam-ID" (was "nR-Beam_ID")

### 2023.07.26 V03.01.03 Editorial corrections based on comments received during WG3 poll.

### 2023.07.27 V03.01.04 Editorial changes to align to O-RAN TS template v01.01
Date Revision Description approved WG3#202, 25/10/2023. Editorial correction to IE name in ASN.1 approved WG3#225 Also includes editorial changes to align with ETSI “Edit Help” changes during PAS processing of v04.00 approval comments CR <NOK-2024.09.02-E2SM-CR-0010-Adding E2SM-LLC to table 5-2-v02> approved WG3#239 CR <NOK-2024.10.23-WG3-CR-0013-E2SM-Handling LS from MSG-v02> approved F2F Montreal CR <NOK-2024.11.12-E2SM-CR-0014-Adding Error handling Cause IE- v02> approved WG3#245 CR <NOK-2024.11.13-WG3-CR-E2SM-0015-Adding RIC Assistance IE-v01 > approved WG3#245 Editorial changes to align with E2SM-v06.00.02 review comments changes related to ETSI MSG Liaison


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG3.TS.E2SM-RC-R004-v09.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG3.TS.E2SM-RC-R004-v09.00 Technical Specification O-RAN Work Group 3 (WG-Near-RT RIC)"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1], O-RAN WG1.OAD [9], O-RAN WG3.E2GAP [2], O-RAN.WG3.E2SM [4] and the following apply: SpCell: as defined in TS 37.340 [31].

## 3.2 Symbols
Void

## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in [i.1] and the following apply: O-CU O-RAN Central Unit O-CU-CP O-RAN Central Unit – Control Plane O-CU-UP O-RAN Central Unit – User Plane O-DU O-RAN Distributed Unit Near-RT RIC Near-real-time RAN Intelligent Controller RC RAN Control

# 4 General

## 4.1 Procedure Specification Principles
The principle for specifying the procedure logic is to specify the functional behavior of the terminating node exactly and completely. Any rule that specifies the behavior of the originating node shall be possible to be verified with information that is visible within the system. The following specification principles have been applied for the procedure text in clause 8:
- The procedure text discriminates between:
1) Functionality which "shall" be executed. The procedure text indicates that the receiving node "shall" perform a certain function Y under a certain condition. If the receiving node supports procedure X but cannot perform functionality Y requested in the REQUEST message of a Class 1 EP, the receiving node shall respond with the message used to report unsuccessful outcome for this procedure, containing an appropriate cause value. 2) Functionality which "shall, if supported" be executed. The procedure text indicates that the receiving node "shall, if supported," perform a certain function Y under a certain condition. If the receiving node supports procedure X, but does not support functionality Y, the receiving node shall proceed with the execution of the EP, possibly informing the requesting node about the not supported functionality.
- Any required inclusion of an optional IE in a response message is explicitly indicated in the procedure text. If the
procedure text does not explicitly indicate that an optional IE shall be included in a response message, the optional IE shall not be included. For requirements on including Criticality Diagnostics IE, see clause 10.

## 4.2 Forwards and Backwards Compatibility
The forwards and backwards compatibility of the protocol is assured by a mechanism where all current and future messages, and IEs or groups of related IEs, include ID and criticality fields that are coded in a standard format that will not be changed in the future. These parts can always be decoded regardless of the standard version.

## 4.3 Specification Notations
For the purposes of the present document, the following notations apply: Service when referring to a Service in the specification the SERVICE NAME is written with upper case characters and in bold followed by the word "service", e.g. REPORT service. Procedure When referring to an elementary procedure in the specification the Procedure Name is written with the first letters in each word in upper case characters followed by the word "procedure", e.g. Handover Preparation procedure. Message When referring to a message in the specification the MESSAGE NAME is written with all letters in upper case characters followed by the word "message", e.g. HANDOVER REQUEST message. IE When referring to an information element (IE) in the specification the Information Element Name is written with the first letters in each word in upper case characters and all letters in Italic font followed by the abbreviation "IE", e.g. E-RAB ID IE. Value of an IE When referring to the value of an information element (IE) in the specification the "Value" is written as it is specified in the specification enclosed by quotation marks, e.g. "Value".

## 4.4 Void

# 5 E2SM Services
As defined in E2 General Aspects and Principles O-RAN WG3.E2GAP [2], a given RAN Function offers a set of services to be exposed over the E2 (REPORT, INSERT, CONTROL and/or POLICY) using O-RAN WG3.E2AP [3] defined procedures. Each of the E2AP Procedures listed in table 5-1 contains specific E2 Node RAN Function dependent Information Elements (IEs). RAN Function specific E2AP E2AP Information Element reference Related E2AP Procedures Information Elements RIC Event Trigger Definition IE O-RAN WG3.E2AP [3] Clause 9.2.9 RIC Subscription RIC Action Definition IE O-RAN WG3.E2AP [3] Clause 9.2.12 RIC Subscription RIC Indication Header IE O-RAN WG3.E2AP [3] Clause 9.2.17 RIC Indication RIC Indication Message IE O-RAN WG3.E2AP [3] Clause 9.2.16 RIC Indication RIC Call Process ID IE O-RAN WG3.E2AP [3] Clause 9.2.18 RIC Indication RIC Control RIC Control Header IE O-RAN WG3.E2AP [3] Clause 9.2.20 RIC Control RIC Control Message IE O-RAN WG3.E2AP [3] Clause 9.2.19 RIC Control RIC Control Outcome IE O-RAN WG3.E2AP [3] Clause 9.2.25 RIC Control RAN Function Definition IE O-RAN WG3.E2AP [3] Clause 9.2.23 E2 Setup RIC Service Update RIC Query Header IE O-RAN WG3.E2AP [3] Clause 9.2.36 RIC Query RIC Query Definition IE O-RAN WG3.E2AP [3] Clause 9.2.37 RIC Query RIC Query Outcome IE O-RAN WG3.E2AP [3] Clause 9.2.38 RIC Query Service Layer Cause IE O-RAN WG3.E2AP [3] clause 9.2.1 RIC Subscription RIC Subscription modification RIC Indication RIC Control RIC Query Error Indication E2 Setup RIC Service Update All of these RAN Function specific E2AP IEs are defined in O-RAN WG3.E2AP [3] as “OCTET STRING”. The purpose of this specification is to define the contents of these fields for the specific RAN function “RAN Control (RC)”.

# 6 RAN Function Service Model Description

## 6.1 RAN Function Overview
For the purposes of this E2 Service Model, E2SM-RC, the E2 Node terminating the E2 Interface is assumed to host one or more instances of the RAN Function “RAN Control” which performs the following functionalities:
- E2 REPORT services used to expose RAN control and UE context related information
- E2 INSERT services used to suspend RAN control related call processes
- E2 CONTROL services used to resume or initiate RAN control related call processes, modify RAN configuration
and/or E2 service-related UE context information
- E2 POLICY services used to modify the behaviour of RAN control related processes
- E2 QUERY services used to request and retrieve RAN and/or UE related information
- Service layer error reporting
This E2SM specification provides a set of RAN Function exposure services described in clause 6.2 and has been prepared with the assumption that the same E2SM may be used to describe either a single RAN Function in the E2 Node handling all RAN control related call processes or more than one RAN Function in the E2 Node with each instance handling a subset of the RAN control related call processes on the E2 Node.

## 6.2 RAN Function exposure services

### 6.2.1 REPORT service
The “RAN Control” RAN Function provides selective support of the following REPORT services:
- Copy of Complete message (from Network Interface or RRC), used for monitoring POLICY services, data gathering
(to populate the Near-RT RIC UE-NIB and/or ML services data pipeline), etc.
- Call process outcome with associated information on UE context and/or RAN status information, used for monitoring
[CONTROL and] POLICY services, data gathering (to populate the Near-RT RIC UE-NIB and/or ML services data pipeline), etc.
- E2 Node Information and Cell related Information, used for monitoring of E2 Node and Cell configuration changes,
triggering POLICY deletion, changing notifications (to reset Near-RT RIC optimization services), etc..
- UE Information, used for monitoring of UE information changes, triggering E2 Control, location tracking, etc.
> NOTE: Only the UE with user consent can be configured to report location information.

### 6.2.2 INSERT service
The “RAN Control” RAN Function provides selective support of the following INSERT services: Fundamental level:
- Radio Bearer Control request, used for requesting the RIC to control DRB QoS modification, QoS flow to DRB
(re)mapping, Logical channel (re)configuration, Radio bearer admission control, Split bearer and PDCP duplication control, etc.
- Radio Resource Allocation Control request, used for requesting the RIC to control Discontinuous Reception (DRX),
Scheduling request (SR), Semi-Persistent Scheduling (SPS), Configured Grant, Channel Quality Indicator (CQI) table, Slice level PRB quota, etc.
- Connected Mode Mobility Control request, used for requesting the RIC to control operations of Handover (HO),
Conditional handover (CHO), Dual Active Protocol Stack (DAPS) HO, etc.
- Radio Access Control request, used for requesting the RIC to control parameters related to RACH back-off, RRC
connection reject, RRC connection release, Access barring, UE admission, etc.
- Dual Connectivity (DC) Control request, used for requesting the RIC to control operations of Dual Connectivity (DC)
including Change of bearer termination point (MN or SN) and/or bearer types, etc.
- Carrier Aggregation (CA) Control request, used for requesting the RIC to control operations of Carrier Aggregation
(CA) involving secondary cell re-selection.
- Idle Mode Mobility Control request, used for requesting the RIC to control intra-frequency, inter-frequency, inter-
RAT cell reselection priority, idle timers, etc. Integrated level:
- Multiple Actions Control request, used for requesting the RIC to command multiple actions of the selected
fundamental level INSERT services.

### 6.2.3 CONTROL service
The “RAN Control” RAN Function provides selective support of the following CONTROL services: Fundamental level:
- Radio Bearer Control, used for DRB QoS modification, QoS flow to DRB (re)mapping, Logical channel
(re)configuration, Radio bearer admission control, Split bearer and PDCP duplication control, etc.
- Radio Resource Allocation Control, used to control Discontinuous Reception (DRX), Scheduling request (SR), Semi-
Persistent Scheduling (SPS), Configured Grant, Channel Quality Indicator (CQI) table, Slice level PRB quota, etc.
- Connected Mode Mobility Control, used to control operations of Handover (HO), Conditional handover (CHO), Dual
Active Protocol Stack (DAPS) HO, etc.
- Radio Access Control, used for modification of RACH back-off, RRC connection reject, RRC connection release,
Access barring, UE admission, etc.
- Dual Connectivity (DC) Control, used to control operations of Dual Connectivity (DC) including Change of bearer
termination point (MN or SN) and/or bearer types, etc.
- Carrier Aggregation (CA) Control, used to control operations of Carrier Aggregation (CA).
- Idle Mode Mobility Control, used for modification of intra-frequency, inter-frequency, inter-RAT cell reselection
priority, idle timers, etc.
- UE identification, information and assignment: used to assign UE to RAN UE group, to obtain information on UE,
and to complete UE identification based on partial information.
- Measurement Report (MR) Configuration Control, used to control configuration of RRC measurement objects,
reporting objects, etc.
- Beamforming Configuration Control, used to control configuration of Non-GoB Beamforming Mode.
Integrated level:
- Multiple Actions Control, used to command multiple actions of the selected fundamental level CONTROL services in
one message.

### 6.2.4 POLICY service
The “RAN Control” RAN Function provides selective support of the following POLICY services:
- Radio Bearer Policy, used to modify the behaviour of call processes related to DRB QoS control, QoS flow to DRB
mapping, Logical channel configuration, Radio bearer admission control, Split bearer and PDCP duplication control, etc.
- Radio Resource Allocation Policy, used to modify the behaviour of call processes related to DRX, SR, SPS,
Configured Grant, CQI table, Slice level PRB quota, etc.
- Connected Mode Mobility Policy, used to modify the behaviour of call processes related to HO, CHO, DAPS HO,
etc. for both serving and target RAN nodes.
- Radio Access Policy, used to modify the behaviour of call processes related to RACH back-off, RRC connection
reject, RRC connection release, Access barring, UE admission, etc.
- Dual Connectivity (DC) Policy, used to modify the behaviour of call processes related to DC related operations for
both master and secondary RAN nodes, Change of bearer termination point (MN or SN) and/or bearer types, etc.
- Carrier Aggregation (CA) Policy, used to modify the behaviour of call processes related to CA related operations for
both primary and secondary cells.
- Idle Mode Mobility Policy, used to modify the behaviour of call processes related to intra-frequency, inter-frequency,
inter-RAT cell reselection priority, inactivity timers, etc.
- Measurement Report (MR) Configuration Policy, used to configure policy for RRC measurement objects, reporting
objects, etc.
- Beamforming Configuration Policy, used to configure policy for Non-GoB and GoB Beamforming Mode.

### 6.2.5 QUERY service
The “RAN Control” RAN Function provides support of the following QUERY services:
- E2 Node related Information retrieval between Near-RT RIC and E2 Node for any data required at Near-RT RIC
- UE related Information retrieval between Near-RT RIC and E2 Node for any data required at Near-RT RIC

## 6.3 REPORT service description
The E2SM-RC REPORT service requirements defined in Clause 6.2.1 are offered using a set of REPORT Styles. All REPORT styles are implemented using a set of IEs for Action Definition, RIC Indication Header and RIC Indication Message and have specific Event Trigger approach. For each Report style, a single RAN Parameter table is used to specify the required information to be reported. The following REPORT styles are supported:
- Message copy: This REPORT style is initiated by “Message Event” Event Trigger and is used to report complete NI
or RRC message along with UE associated information when the event trigger conditions are satisfied.
- Call Process Outcome: This REPORT style is initiated by the corresponding "Call Process Breakpoint" Event Trigger
and is used to report on the outcome of a call process providing information on current, and in certain cases previous, UE or E2 Node information depending upon the nature of the target call process.
- E2 Node Information: This REPORT style is initiated by “E2 Node Information Change” Event Trigger and is used to
report cell related and E2 Node related information upon event trigger conditions are satisfied.
- UE information: This REPORT style is initiated by “UE Information Change” Event Trigger and is used to report UE
related information and UE state variables upon the event trigger conditions are satisfied.

## 6.4 INSERT service description
The E2SM-RC INSERT service requirements defined in Clause 6.2.2 are offered using a set of INSERT Styles. Each style corresponds to a set of “INSERT Indications”, where each “INSERT Indication” deals with a specific functionality and has a set of associated RAN parameters, provided in a mapping table. All INSERT Service styles are implemented using a set of IEs that constitute “Action Definition”, “RIC Indication Header” and “RIC Indication Message” to deliver RAN Control-related INSERT services. Each INSERT service style is associated with a specific “Event Trigger” approach. An “INSERT Indication” is used to request the RIC to control a functionality associated with the respective INSERT service style, and to set or modify the values of one or more associated RAN parameters. As an example, upon the arrival of an RRC Measurement Report in the E2 node due to the occurrence of an A3 event pertaining to a UE (which constitutes the event trigger), the E2 node can send a message to the RIC using the “Connected Mode Mobility Control Request” INSERT service style and the “Handover Control Request” INSERT Indication along with the “target cell ID” parameter. This RIC should then accept/deny the “Handover Control Request”, and if it accepts, it should set the value of the “target cell ID” parameter and send a CONTROL action back to the E2 Node. Up until then, the E2 node suspends the ongoing call processing for the UE.

## 6.5 CONTROL service description
The E2SM-RC CONTROL service requirements defined in Clause 6.2.3 are offered using a set of CONTROL Styles. Each style corresponds to a set of “CONTROL Action”, where each “CONTROL Action” deals with a specific functionality and has a set of associated RAN parameters, provided in a mapping table. All CONTROL Service styles are implemented using a set of IEs constituting a “RIC Control Request Header” and a “RIC Control Request Message” to deliver RAN Control-related CONTROL services and the optional “RIC Control Outcome” to carry control process outcome information from the E2 Node.

# A “CONTROL Action” containing one or more RAN parameters and their associated values can either be sent from the RIC,
either asynchronously to the E2 node or as a response to a previous “INSERT Indication” from the E2 node. Referring to the previous example in Clause 6.4, the RIC sends a “CONTROL action” that accepts/denies the incoming “INSERT Indication” requesting for “Handover Control”, along with the value of the “Target Primary Cell”. As another example, the RIC can also asynchronously send a “CONTROL action” asking the E2 node to configure the UE in Carrier Aggregation mode and setup one or more secondary cells to the UE, whose values are assigned by the RIC via the “CONTROL action”.

## 6.6 POLICY service description

### 6.6.1 Overview
The E2SM-RC POLICY service requirements defined in Clause 6.2.4 are offered using a set of POLICY Styles. Each style is implemented using multiple "Policy Approach" strategies, each with a specific methodology defined to use the E2AP IE "Action Definition" to deliver RAN Control related POLICY services. The following Policy Approaches are defined:
- Control: POLICY for a given Style and Action ID is defined as a single case of a specific Policy condition with the
corresponding Policy Action defined using the same data structure as CONTROL which would be used to replace default RAN behaviour.
- Offset: POLICY for a given Style and Action ID is defined as a set of different cases applicable for a range of
different Policy conditions with the corresponding Policy Action defined using the dedicated data structure defined for POLICY which would be used to modify default RAN behaviour.

### 6.6.2 Policy approach "Control"
The “control” Policy Approach is similar to the CONTROL service, with static conditions and actions in the RIC Subscription used to select an appropriate CONTROL Action. When a set of Policy conditions are satisfied, then E2 Node is instructed to execute a Policy Action with a set of supplementary or default set of RAN parameters. A single Policy Action shall be a result of execution of multiple policy conditions.
- Each Policy Condition is defined using a combination of RAN Parameters and conditional tests associated with UE
and Call process related information.
- Each Policy Action is defined with a single Policy Action ID (command) which instructs E2 Node to perform a
certain action when the conditions are satisfied. The Policy Action ID shall be supplemented with a set of RAN Parameters which may be used to provide information on default values to E2 Node. The Policy Decision indicates to the E2 Node, whether to accept or reject a RRM function, when the Policy conditions are met. Examples include:
- Connected mode mobility policy, Handover Execution: Message Arrival breakpoint event trigger is defined to initiate
the Policy service. On the arrival of A3 Measurement Report, the Policy service kicks in. Policy service installs a set of Policy Conditions like RSRP > ‘x’ db + Target Node Load < ‘x’ value + Number of successful HO to target Node > ‘x’ value. When these Policy conditions are satisfied, then perform Policy Action - “Execute HO” defined in the CONTROL service in Clause 6.5. The Policy Action may be provided as a standalone Policy Action ID “Execute HO” without any RAN parameters. As an alternative, Policy Action “Execute HO” may be supplemented with default RAN parameters like Handover only QCI 5 and 9 bearers.
- Carrier Aggregation Policy, CA Release decision: A call process breakpoint event trigger is defined to initiate the
POLICY service. The call process breakpoint shall define conditions for Buffer occupancy. A call process breakpoint event shall be triggered when the Buffer Occupancy (BO) < ‘x’ KB. In this scenario, the event trigger satisfies the Policy condition. Hence there is no need to define a Policy condition in the Policy service, When the BO < ‘x’ KB kicks in, then Policy Action shall instruct E2 Node to “Release Scell”.

### 6.6.3 Policy Approach "Offset"
The "offset" Policy Approach is based on the design assumption that the Policy Action IE is used to carry one or more RAN Parameters that are used to modify default E2 Node behaviour via the addition of an "offset" to be applied to given target threshold or other parameter used in the target call process. The applicable Policy Action is dependent upon a set of Policy Conditions and a given POLICY service may support one or more Policy conditions and so provide a targeted Policy Action for a range of different specific cases, each defined using a unique Policy condition where:
- Each Policy Condition is defined using a combination of RAN Parameters and conditional tests associated with UE
and Call process related information. The first positive match in a list of Policy conditions is used to select the corresponding Policy Action.
- Each Policy Action is defined using a list of RAN Parameters of data type INTEGER or REAL which may to used
directly for default values of type INTEGER or REAL (i.e. Default+Offset) and indirectly to for default values of type ENUMERATED (i.e. select value in list that is Offset before or after default value). Examples include:
- Connected mode mobility policy, Handover decision: A call process breakpoint event trigger is defined to initiate the
POLICY service from within the call process handling UE measurement reports related to handover decisions for a specific target Slice and primary cell currently subject to Traffic Steering guidance. The Policy conditions list of RAN Parameters supports the definition of different A3 measurement threshold criteria offset values to be applied to UEs with a specific combination of slice ID, active QoS bearers, velocity and throughput and subject to overall E2 Node load and cell level load balancing requirements. Handover is accepted if the reported A3 measurement is greater than the default A3 measurement threshold+offset.
- Carrier Aggregation Policy, CA release decision: A call process breakpoint event trigger is defined to initiate the
POLICY service from within the call process related to Carrier Aggregation (CA) release decisions for a specific target Slice currently subject to QoE guidance. The Policy conditions list of RAN Parameters supports the definition of different CA release threshold criteria offset values to be applied to UEs with a specific combination of slice ID, active QoS bearers, velocity and throughput and subject to overall E2 Node load and cell level load balancing requirements. CA release is initiated if the UE throughput is less than the default UE throughput threshold+offset.

## 6.7 QUERY service description
The E2SM-RC QUERY service requirements defined in Clause 6.2.5 are offered using a set of QUERY Styles. All QUERY styles are implemented using a set of IEs for RIC Query Header, RIC Query Definition and RIC Query Outcome. For each Query style, a single RAN Parameter table is used to specify the required information to be requested and responded.

# 7 RAN Function Description

## 7.1 RAN Function Definition
The E2AP [3] procedures E2 Setup and RIC Service Update are used to transport the RAN Function Definition IE. For a specific RAN Function declared using E2SM-RC, the RAN Function Definition IE, defined in clause 9.2.2, shall report the following information:
- RAN Function name along with associated information on E2SM definition
- Event trigger styles list along with the corresponding encoding type for each associated E2AP IE.
- RIC REPORT Service styles list along with the corresponding encoding type for each associated E2AP IE.
- RIC INSERT Service styles list along with the corresponding encoding type for each associated E2AP IE.
- RIC CONTROL Service styles list along with the corresponding encoding type for each associated E2AP IE.
- RIC POLICY Service styles list along with the corresponding encoding type for each associated E2AP IE.
- RIC QUERY Service styles list along with the corresponding encoding type for each associated E2AP IE.
For the case where RAN Function Definition IE, defined in clause 9.2.2, is present in the E2 SETUP REQUEST message the IE shall provide a complete list of all Styles, Actions and associated Formats and RAN Parameter for all supported RIC services reflecting the current status of the RAN Function. For the case where RAN Function Definition IE, defined in clause 9.2.2, is present in the RIC SERVICE UPDATE message within the E2AP RAN Functions Added List IE, the IE shall provide a complete list of all Styles, Actions and associated Formats and RAN Parameter for all supported RIC services for the newly added RAN Function with a new RAN Function ID. For the case where RAN Function Definition IE, defined in clause 9.2.2, is present in the RIC SERVICE UPDATE message within the E2AP RAN Functions Modified List IE, the IE shall provide a complete list of all the Styles, Actions and associated Formats and RAN Parameter for all supported RIC services including both modified and unchanged information for an existing RAN Function.

## 7.2 RAN Function name
RAN Function Short Name “ORAN-E2SM-RC” RAN Function name description “RAN Control” RAN Function Instance, required when and if E2 Node exposes more than one instance of a RAN Function based on this E2SM.

## 7.3 RIC Event Trigger Definition IE styles

### 7.3.1 RIC Event Trigger Definition IE style list
RIC Style Name Supported RIC Service Style Style Description Style Report Insert Policy Type Message Event 1 - 1-7 Triggering conditions are based on arrival or departure of network interface message or RRC message. Call Process 2 1-7 1-8 Triggering conditions are based on call Breakpoint process breakpoint. E2 Node 3 - - Triggering conditions are based on Information change of E2 Node or cell related Change configuration information. UE Information 4 - 9 Triggering conditions are based on Change change of UE Information.

### 7.3.2 RIC Event Trigger Definition IE style 1: Message Event
This RIC Event Trigger Definition IE style is used to detect a specific Network Interface or RRC message event in E2 Node. The detection can be based on only for incoming or outgoing message. The E2 Node can also be configured to detect multiple messages simultaneously and to trigger only when all the configured message events happen or for any logical combination of message events. Each message event configured can be further conditioned to be associated only for a certain UE or group of UEs as indicated by the Associated UE Info IE if included, or only for some specific UE events defined in Clause 8.1.5 as indicated by the Associated UE Event IE if included. In case that the Global Associated UE Info IE is included, the information is applied uniformly to all the message events configured and the IE shall override any Associated UE Info IE included for some message events. For each message event configured, Event Trigger Condition ID is assigned so that E2 Node can reply to Near-RT RIC in the RIC INDICATION message to inform which event(s) are the cause for triggering. This RIC Event Trigger Definition IE style uses RIC Event Trigger Definition IE Format 1 (9.2.1.1.1).

### 7.3.3 RIC Event Trigger Definition IE style 2: Call Process Breakpoint
This RIC Event Trigger Definition IE style is used to detect a call process in E2 Node based on a specified call process identifier and breakpoint identifier. The call process and breakpoint configured for event triggering can also be conditioned to be associated with a certain E2 Node related information. The following table specifies the supported call process types, call breakpoints, the associated RAN Parameters for possible E2 Node related conditioning for event triggering, as well as the supported INSERT or POLICY services. Parameters Call Call Call Call Associate Supporte Supporte Supporte Descriptio Process Process Break- Breakpoint d RAN d INSERT d POLICY d n Type ID Type point ID Name Paramete Service Service REPORT rs Styles Styles Service Styles UE 1 UE Context 8.1.2.1.1 1,2,3,4,6,7 1,2,3,4,6,7 2 TS 38.470 Context Setup ,8 [18] clause Manage 2 UE Context 8.1.2.1.2 5.2.3 and ment Modification TS 38.410

# 3 UE Context 8.1.2.1.3 [10] clause
Release 5.3. Bearer 1 Bearer 8.1.2.2.1 1,4,5,6 1,4,5,6,8 2 TS 38.460 Context Context [20] clause Manage Setup 5.1.2 ment 2 Bearer 8.1.2.2.2 Context Modification

# 3 Bearer 8.1.2.2.3
Context Release Mobility 1 Handover 8.1.2.3.1 3 3,8 2 TS 38.420 Manage Preparation [14] clause ment 2 Handover 8.1.2.3.2 5.2.2 and Cancel TS 38.410

# 3 Handover 8.1.2.3.3 [10] clause
Resource 5.4. It also Allocation handles the F1AP: Mobility Manageme nt aspects of the UE Context Manageme nt procedure from TS 38.470 and TS 38.473 Multi- 1 SN Addition 8.1.2.4.1 5 5,8 2 TS 38.420 RAT 2 SN 8.1.2.4.2 [14] clause Dual Modification 5.2.3 and Connecti and TS 36.420 vity Release [16] Manage clauses ment 5.2.1.5 and 5.2.1.6 Radio 1 RRC CG- 8.1.2.5.1 1-7 1-7 2 TS 38.470 Resource Config [18] clause Control Information 5.2.4, TS Manage Transfer 38.331 [22]. ment 2 RRC Cell 8.1.2.5.2 Group Config Transfer

# 3 RRC 8.1.2.5.3 NA 8 2
Measureme nt Configuratio n PDU 1 PDU 8.1.2.6.1 1,3,4,5 1,3,4,5,8 2 TS 38.410 Session Session [10] clause Manage Resource 5.5 ment Setup

# 3 PDU 8.1.2.6.3
Session Resource Release Each event configured can be further conditioned to be associated only for a certain UE or group of UEs as indicated by the Associated UE Info IE if included. This RIC Event Trigger Definition IE style uses E2SM-RC Event Trigger Definition Format 2 IE (9.2.1.1.2).

### 7.3.4 RIC Event Trigger Definition IE style 3: E2 Node Information Change
This RIC Event Trigger Definition IE style is used to detect E2 Node related information change from the subscribed E2 Node. The E2 Node can also be configured to detect multiple changes simultaneously and to trigger only when all the configured changes happen or for any logical combination of the configured changes. In this version of E2SM-RC specification, the following E2 Node related information changes are supported for event triggering. E2 Node E2 Node Information Description Information Change Type Change ID Cell Configuration Change Triggered when any serving cell’s context information defined by the Served Cell Information IE in TS 38.473 [19] clause 9.3.1.10 has changed. Cell Neighbour Relation Triggered when any serving cell’s neighbour relation information Change defined by Clause 9.3.38 has changed. Slice Configuration Triggered when slice configuration in any serving cell has changed. Change MIB Change Triggered when the MIB in any serving cell has changed Serving Cell Config Triggered when any Serving Cell Config Common information Common Change defined by Clause 8.2.3 in any serving cell has changed Each E2 Node information change configured can also be conditioned to be associated with a specific cell or group of cells for event triggering, as indicated by the Associated Cell Info IE if included. For each information change configured for event triggering, Event Trigger Condition ID is also assigned so that E2 Node can reply to Near-RT RIC in the RIC INDICATION message to inform which event(s) are the cause for triggering. This RIC Event Trigger Definition IE style uses E2SM-RC Event Trigger Definition Format 3 IE (9.2.1.1.3).

### 7.3.5 RIC Event Trigger Definition IE style 4: UE Information Change
This RIC Event Trigger Definition IE style is used to detect UE Context related information change from the subscribed E2 Node. The E2 Node can also be configured to detect multiple changes simultaneously and to trigger only when all the configured changes happen or for any logical combination of the configured changes. In this version of E2SM-RC specification, the supported UE Context information changes for event triggering are
- RRC state change
- UE identifier change (based on UE ID defined in Clause 9.3.10)
- RLC/PDCP state variable or MAC state variable change (based on RAN Parameters defined in Clauses 8.1.1.4 and
8.1.1.8)
- L2 MAC scheduler-related changes (e.g. MIMO transmission mode state change for the UE, etc.)
- UE context info change
For UE identifier change, the following cases are supported for event triggering. UE Identifier UE Identifier Change Description Change ID Type New UE Connected Triggered when new UE ID is assigned for a new UE connected. UE Handed Over Triggered when new UE ID is assigned due to HO from another node. UE ID Changed Triggered when any content of the assigned UE ID (based on the definition of UE ID in Clause 9.3.10) has changed. UE ID Removed Triggered when a UE is released, and its UE ID is removed. The detection for each UE information change configured can be based on for any UEs, or only for a certain UE or group of UEs as indicated by the Associated UE Info IE if included. For each information change configured, Event Trigger Condition ID is assigned so that E2 Node can reply to Near-RT RIC in the RIC INDICATION message to inform which event(s) are the cause for triggering. This RIC Event Trigger Definition IE style uses E2SM-RC Event Trigger Definition Format 4 IE (9.2.1.1.4).

## 7.4 Supported RIC REPORT Services

### 7.4.1 REPORT Service style list
RIC Style Type Style Name Style Description Message copy This style is used to report a copy of complete Network Interface or RRC message. Call Process Outcome This style is used to report the outcome of an ongoing call process. E2 Node Information This style is used to report E2 Node information, Serving Cell Configuration and Neighbour Relation related information. UE Information This style is used to report the UE related information like PDCP, RLC, MAC UE state variables and RRC UE State.

### 7.4.2 REPORT Service Style 1: Message Copy

#### 7.4.2.1 REPORT Service Style description
This REPORT Service style provides the complete copy of a Network Interface or RRC message to be carried as a transparent container in the RIC Indication Message IE. This REPORT service style may also be used to report UE and E2 Node specific information associated with the Network Interface/RRC messages as provided in Clause 8.2.1 RAN Parameters. Examples include reporting of UEID to Near-RT RIC when UE attaches to the E2 Node or when the UEID changes during Xn Handover, UE events like Secondary Cell addition, Arrival of A3 Measurement Report (see Clause 8.1.5 for the list of UE events). This REPORT Service style is initiated by Event Trigger style 1: Message Event.

#### 7.4.2.2 REPORT Service RIC Action Definition IE contents
The Action Definition for this service style is used to request E2 Node to report a copy of NI and/or RRC message and may be used to report UE and E2 Node specific information. The action definition indicates which related UE and E2 Node information is to be reported along with the NI or RRC message that triggers this report service. This REPORT Service style uses the E2SM-RC Action Definition Format 1 IE (9.2.1.2.1). The supported Parameters for this format are provided in Clause 8.2.1.

#### 7.4.2.3 REPORT Service RIC Indication Header IE contents
This REPORT Service style uses the E2SM-RC Indication Header Format 1 IE (9.2.1.3.1)

#### 7.4.2.4 REPORT Service RIC Indication Message IE contents
The REPORT Service RIC Indication Message IE carries the complete Network Interface or RRC message as transparent containers. The RIC Indication Message IE may also carry UE and E2 Node specific information related to the Network Interface or RRC message as provided in Clause 8.2.1. This REPORT Service style uses the E2SM-RC Indication Message Format 1 IE (9.2.1.4.1). The supported Parameters for this message format are provided in Clause 8.2.1.

### 7.4.3 REPORT Service Style 2: Call Process Outcome

#### 7.4.3.1 REPORT Service Style description
This REPORT Service style provides the outcome of a target call process related mechanism to be carried in the RIC Indication Message IE along with an associated RIC Indication Header IE providing information related event trigger conditions. This REPORT Service style is initiated by Event Trigger style 2: Call Process Breakpoint.

#### 7.4.3.2 REPORT Service RIC Action Definition IE contents
The Action Definition for this service style is used to request an E2 Node to report call process outcome information including UE specific information. The Action Definition indicates which related UE information is to be reported related to the outcome of the event that triggers this report service. This REPORT Service style uses the E2SM-RC Action Definition Format 1 IE (9.2.1.2.1). The supported Parameters for this message format are provided in Clause 8.2.2.

#### 7.4.3.3 REPORT Service RIC Indication Header IE contents
This REPORT Service style uses the E2SM-RC Indication Header Format 1 IE (9.2.1.3.1).

#### 7.4.3.4 REPORT Service RIC Indication Message IE contents
The REPORT Service RIC Indication Message IE carries the UE specific information as a result of call process outcome. The Parameters supporting UE specific information is provided in Clause 8.2.2. This REPORT Service style uses the E2SM-RC Indication Message Format 2 IE (9.2.1.4.2). The supported Parameters for this message format are provided in Clause 8.2.2.

### 7.4.4 REPORT Service Style 3: E2 Node Information.

#### 7.4.4.1 REPORT Service Style description
This REPORT Service style provides essential RAN control related E2 Node Configuration Information that is not provided by E2AP [3]. The information is carried in the RIC Indication Message IE along with an associated RIC Indication Header IE providing information related event trigger conditions. The required information to be provided is controlled using the associated RIC Action Definition IE parameters. This REPORT Service style provides information related to:
- Serving Cell configuration
- Neighbour Relation Information
whenever the corresponding event trigger for change in information content is satisfied. With every change in the information content of the Neighbour Relation Information, complete list of Neighbour relation table of the affected serving cell is sent to Near-RT RIC with indication on the modified information. This REPORT Service style is initiated by Event Trigger style 3: E2 Node Information Change.

#### 7.4.4.2 REPORT Service RIC Action Definition IE contents
The Action Definition for this service style indicates the E2 Node related information requested by Near-RT RIC. The REPORT Service style uses the E2SM-RC Action Definition Format 1 IE (9.2.1.2.1). The supported Parameters for this format are provided in Clause 8.2.3. With every change in the information content of the Neighbour Relation Information pertaining to any cell in the E2 node (event trigger), the RIC Action Definition IE from the Near-RT RIC instructs the E2 node to send the complete list of Neighbour relation table for the impacted cell.

#### 7.4.4.3 REPORT Service RIC Indication Header IE contents
This REPORT Service style uses the E2SM-RC Indication Header Format 1 IE (9.2.1.3.1).

#### 7.4.4.4 REPORT Service RIC Indication Message IE contents
The REPORT Service RIC Indication Message IE carries the E2 node related information as subscribed by the RIC Action Definition IE. This REPORT Service style uses the E2SM-RC Indication Message Format 3 IE (9.2.1.4.3). The mapping of RAN parameters configured in the RIC Action Definition IE to the reported IEs in the RIC Indication Message IE Format 3 is provided in the semantics description of the IEs.

### 7.4.5 REPORT Service Style 4: UE Information

#### 7.4.5.1 REPORT Service Style description
This REPORT Service style provides UE related Information. The information is carried in the RIC Indication Message IE along with an associated RIC Indication Header IE providing information related event trigger conditions. The required information to be provided is controlled using the associated RIC Action Definition IE parameters. This REPORT Service style enables the E2 Node to report on a per UE basis:
- L2 UE State variable values including
- PDCP UE State variables
- RLC UE State variables
- MAC UE variables.
- L3 UE State variable values including
- RRC State
- UE ID Information
- UE ID change information including
- Current UE ID
- Old UE ID
- NI or RRC message which triggered the UE ID change
- UE context related information
This REPORT Service style is initiated by Event Trigger style 4: UE Information Change.

#### 7.4.5.2 REPORT Service RIC Action Definition IE contents
The Action Definition for this service style indicates the set of UE information parameters to be reported when event trigger to report is satisfied. The REPORT Service style uses the E2SM-RC Action Definition Format 1 IE (9.2.1.2.1). The supported Parameters for this message format are provided in Clause 8.2.4.

#### 7.4.5.3 REPORT Service RIC Indication Header IE contents
This REPORT Service style uses the E2SM-RC Indication Header Format 1 IE (9.2.1.3.1).

#### 7.4.5.4 REPORT Service RIC Indication Message IE contents
The REPORT Service RIC Indication Message IE carries the requested UE related information. This REPORT Service style uses the E2SM-RC Indication Message Format 2 IE (9.2.1.4.2). The supported Parameters for this message format are provided in Clause 8.2.4.

## 7.5 Supported RIC INSERT Services

### 7.5.1 INSERT Service style list
RIC Style Style Name Style Description Type Radio Bearer Control Request Used to request modification of the configuration of Radio Bearer Control (RBC) related parameters. Belongs to Fundamental level INSERT Services. Radio Resource Allocation Used to request modification of the configuration of Radio Control Request Resource Allocation control related parameters. Belongs to Fundamental level INSERT Services. Connected Mode Mobility Used to request initiation of a connected mode mobility procedure Control Request (Handover or Conditional Handover), optionally with Dual Active Protocol Stack (DAPS), for a specific UE towards either a target cell (for HO) or a list of candidate cells (for CHO). Belongs to Fundamental level INSERT Services. Radio Access Control Request Used to request modification of radio access related functions for controlling UE access to cells. Belongs to Fundamental level INSERT Services. Dual Connectivity Control Used to request initiation of dual connectivity (DC) mechanisms Request Belongs to Fundamental level INSERT Services. Carrier Aggregation Control Used to request initiation of carrier aggregation (CA) mechanisms Request Belongs to Fundamental level INSERT Services. Idle Mode Mobility Control Used to request modification of idle mode mobility related functions Request in order to control UE re-selection of cells Belongs to Fundamental level INSERT Services.

# 255 Multiple Actions Control Used to request multiple parallel actions of the selected
Request fundamental level INSERT Service style(s). Belongs to Integrated level INSERT Services. Apart from the individual set of RAN parameters associated with each INSERT Service style and INSERT Indication name as described in Clauses 7.5.2 to 7.5.8, there is also a common set of RAN parameters for all INSERT service styles as elucidated in Clause 8.3.9.

### 7.5.2 INSERT Service Style 1: Radio Bearer Control Request

#### 7.5.2.1 INSERT Service Style description
This INSERT Service style provides a mechanism to initiate request to the RIC for controlling the functionalities of a radio bearer related process pertaining to a UE using the RIC Indication Message IE and associated RIC Indication Header IE. The E2 node sends a RIC Indication message to the near-RT RIC and the ongoing call process is suspended at the E2 node until the E2 node hears back from the RIC. The optional RIC Call Process ID IE is used by the E2 node to match a RIC Control Request message to a RIC Indication message, following which the E2 node can resume the suspended call processing for the UE. Applications of this service include:
- Request for DRB QoS Modification, to tune DRB level QoS related parameters to meet the QoS optimization targets.
- Request for QoS Flow (re)mapping, to adjust the mapping relationship between QoS flows and DRBs.
- Request for Logical channel (re)configuration
- Request for Radio Bearer Admission Control, to configure DRB admission control such as reject or release may be
applied.
- Request for Split bearer and PDCP duplication control
This Insert style supports the following Indication services, each service listed below with a corresponding Indication ID. The RAN parameters, associated with each Insert Indication service, are listed in the clauses shown below. Indication Indication Name Insert Indication description Associated ID RAN Parameters DRB QoS To request the configuration of DRB QoS profile 8.3.2.1 Configuration request QoS flow To request the multiplexing of QoS flows to a DRB (addition, 8.3.2.2 mapping modification, deletion configuration request Logical channel To request the LCID configuration of a DRB 8.3.2.3 configuration request Radio admission To request radio admission control of a UE 8.3.2.4 control request DRB termination To request a change in the bearer termination point 8.3.2.5 control request DRB split ratio To request the split ratio of a DRB to be controlled across its RLC 8.3.2.6 control request entities PDCP To request controlling the activation or de-activation of PDCP 8.3.2.7 Duplication duplication for a DRB and control/configure the number of legs or control request RLC entities for the DRB

#### 7.5.2.2 INSERT Service RIC Action Definition IE contents
This INSERT Service style uses the E2SM-RC Action Definition Format 3 IE (9.2.1.2.3). This Insert style deals with the supported Indication services, each service with a corresponding Indication ID listed in Clause 7.5.2.1. The RAN parameters, associated with each Insert RIC Indication service, are included by the E2 node in the RIC Indication message. Via the RIC Indication message, the E2 node seeks the near-RT RIC to accept or deny the request raised by the E2 node and to accordingly set the values for the associated RAN parameters by the RIC via the control action in the ensuing RIC Control Request message from the RIC.

#### 7.5.2.3 INSERT Service RIC Indication Header IE contents
This INSERT Service style uses E2SM-RC Indication header Format 2 IE (9.2.1.3.2). The RIC Indication Header IE has the UE ID, the Insert Service Style ID and the corresponding Insert Indication ID.

#### 7.5.2.4 INSERT Service RIC Indication Message IE contents
This INSERT Service style uses E2SM-RC Indication Message Format 5 IE (9.2.1.4.5). The RIC Indication Message IE includes a sequence of associated RAN parameters for which the E2 node seeks the near-RT RIC to accept/deny the request raised by the E2 node and accordingly set the values for the associated RAN parameters, via the control action in the ensuing RIC Control Request IE.

#### 7.5.2.5 INSERT Service RIC Call Process ID IE contents
This INSERT Service style uses E2SM-RC Call Process ID Format 1 IE (9.2.1.5.1).

### 7.5.3 INSERT Service Style 2: Radio Resource Allocation Control Request

#### 7.5.3.1 INSERT Service Style description
This INSERT Service style provides a mechanism to initiate request to the RIC for controlling the allocation of radio resources to the UE using the RIC Indication Message IE and associated RIC Indication Header IE. The E2 node sends a RIC Indication message to the near-RT RIC and the ongoing call process is suspended at the E2 node until the E2 node hears back from the RIC. The optional RIC Call Process ID IE is used by the E2 node to match a RIC Control Request message to a RIC Indication message, following which the E2 node can resume the suspended call processing for the UE. Applications of this service include:
- Request for Discontinuous Reception (DRX) control
- Request for Scheduling request (SR) control
- Request for Semi-Persistent Scheduling (SPS) control
- Request for Configured Grant control
- Request for Channel Quality Indicator (CQI) table
- Request for Slice level PRB quota
This Insert style supports the following Indication services, each service listed below with a corresponding Indication ID. The RAN parameters, associated with each Insert Indication service, are listed in the clauses shown below. Indication Indication Insert Indication description Associated ID Name RAN Parameters DRX parameter To request the configuration of DRX parameters 8.3.3.1 configuration request SR periodicity To request the configuration of SR periodicity parameters 8.3.3.2 configuration request SPS parameters To request the configuration of SPS parameters 8.3.3.3 configuration request Configured grant To request the configuration of uplink grants to the UE 8.3.3.4 control request CQI table configuration To request the configuration of CQI table. 8.3.3.5 request Slice-level PRB quota To request setting the slice-specific PRB quota 8.3.3.6 request

#### 7.5.3.2 INSERT Service RIC Action Definition IE contents
This INSERT Service style uses the E2SM-RC Action Definition Format 3 IE (9.2.1.2.3). The Insert style deals with the supported Indication services, each service with a corresponding Indication ID listed in Clause 7.5.3.1. The RAN parameters, associated with each Insert Indication service, are included by the E2 node in the RIC Indication message. Via the RIC Indication message, the E2 node seeks the near-RT RIC to accept or deny the request raised by the E2 node and to accordingly set the values for the associated RAN parameters by the RIC via the control action in the ensuing RIC Control Request message from the RIC.

#### 7.5.3.3 INSERT Service RIC Indication Header IE contents
This INSERT Service style uses E2SM-RC Indication Header Format 2 IE (9.2.1.3.2). The RIC Indication Header IE has the UE ID, the Insert Service Style ID and the corresponding Insert Indication ID.

#### 7.5.3.4 INSERT Service RIC Indication Message IE contents
This INSERT Service style uses E2SM-RC Indication Message Format 5 IE (9.2.1.4.5). The RIC Indication Message IE includes a sequence of associated RAN parameters for which the E2 node seeks the near-RT RIC to accept/deny the request raised by the E2 node and accordingly set the values for the associated RAN parameters, via the control action in the ensuing RIC Control Request IE.

#### 7.5.3.5 INSERT Service RIC Call Process ID IE contents
This INSERT Service style uses E2SM-RC Call Process ID Format 1 IE (9.2.1.5.1).

### 7.5.4 INSERT Service Style 3: Connected Mode Mobility Control Request

#### 7.5.4.1 INSERT Service Style description
This INSERT Service style provides a mechanism to initiate request for controlling the handover and mobility management of the UE using the RIC Indication Message IE and associated RIC Indication Header IE. The E2 node sends a RIC Indication message to the near-RT RIC and the ongoing call process is suspended at the E2 node until the E2 node hears back from the RIC. The optional RIC Call Process ID IE is used by the E2 node to match a RIC Control Request message to a RIC Indication message, following which the E2 node can resume the suspended call processing for the UE. Applications of this service include:
- Request for Handover (HO) initiation for a selected UE towards a target cell
- Request for Conditional handover (CHO) initiation for a selected UE towards a list of candidate cell(s)
- Request for Handover (HO) initiation with Dual Active Protocol Stack (DAPS) for a selected UE towards a target cell
This Insert style supports the following Indication services, each service listed below with a corresponding Indication ID. The RAN parameters, associated with each Insert Indication service, are listed in the clauses shown below. Indication Indication Insert Indication description Associated RAN ID Name parameters Handover To request the handover of the primary cell and subsequent 8.3.4.1 Control request secondary cell reselection Conditional To request the conditional handover involving target primary 8.3.4.2 Handover cells Control request DAPS (Dual To request the dual active protocol stack handover involving 8.3.4.3 Active Protocol the target primary cell. Stack) Handover Control request

#### 7.5.4.2 INSERT Service RIC Action Definition IE contents
This INSERT Service style uses the E2SM-RC Action Definition Format 3 IE (9.2.1.2.3). The Insert style deals with the supported Indication services, each service with a corresponding Indication ID listed in Clause 7.5.4.1. The RAN parameters, associated with each Insert RIC Indication service, are included by the E2 node in the RIC Indication message. Via the RIC Indication message, the E2 node seeks the near-RT RIC to accept or deny the request raised by the E2 node and to accordingly set the values for the associated RAN parameters by the RIC via the control action in the ensuing RIC Control Request message from the RIC.

#### 7.5.4.3 INSERT Service RIC Indication Header IE contents
This INSERT Service style uses E2SM-RC Indication Header Format 2 IE (9.2.1.3.2). The RIC Indication Header IE has the UE ID, the Insert Service Style ID and the corresponding Insert Indication ID.

#### 7.5.4.4 INSERT Service RIC Indication Message IE contents
This INSERT Service style uses E2SM-RC Indication Message Format 5 IE (9.2.1.4.5). The RIC Indication Message IE includes a sequence of associated RAN parameters for which the E2 node seeks the near-RT RIC to accept/deny the request raised by the E2 node and accordingly set the values for the associated RAN parameters, via the control action in the ensuing RIC Control Request IE.

#### 7.5.4.5 INSERT Service RIC Call Process ID IE contents
This INSERT Service style uses E2SM-RC Call Process ID Format 1 IE (9.2.1.5.1).

### 7.5.5 INSERT Service Style 4: Radio Access Control Request

#### 7.5.5.1 INSERT Service Style description
This INSERT Service style provides a mechanism to initiate request for controlling the radio access of the UE using the RIC Indication Message IE and associated RIC Indication Header IE. The E2 node sends a RIC Indication message to the near-RT RIC and the ongoing call process is suspended at the E2 node until the E2 node hears back from the RIC. The optional RIC Call Process ID IE is used by the E2 node to match a RIC Control Request message to a RIC Indication message, following which the E2 node can resume the suspended call processing for the UE. Applications of this service include:
- Request for configuring RACH back-off
- Request for UE admission
- Request for RRC connection reject
- Request for RRC connection release Request for Access barring
This Insert style supports the following Indication services, each service listed below with a corresponding Indication ID. The RAN parameters, associated with each Insert Indication service, are listed in the clauses shown below. Indication Indication Insert Indication Description Associated RAN ID Name Parameters

#### 7.5.5.2 INSERT Service RIC Action Definition IE contents
This INSERT Service style uses the E2SM-RC Action Definition Format 3 IE (9.2.1.2.3). The Insert style deals with the supported Indication services, each service with a corresponding Indication ID listed in Clause 7.5.5.1. The RAN parameters, associated with each Insert Indication service, are included by the E2 node in the RIC Indication message. Via the RIC Indication message, the E2 node seeks the near-RT RIC to accept or deny the request raised by the E2 node and to accordingly set the values for the associated RAN parameters by the RIC via the control action in the ensuing RIC Control Request message from the RIC.

#### 7.5.5.3 INSERT Service RIC Indication Header IE contents
This INSERT Service style uses E2SM-RC Indication Header Format 2 IE (9.2.1.3.2). The RIC Indication Header IE has the UE ID, the Insert Service Style ID and the corresponding Insert Indication ID.

#### 7.5.5.4 INSERT Service RIC Indication Message IE contents
This INSERT Service style uses E2SM-RC Indication Message Format 5 IE (9.2.1.4.5). The RIC Indication Message IE includes a sequence of associated RAN parameters for which the E2 node seeks the near-RT RIC to accept/deny the request raised by the E2 node and accordingly set the values for the associated RAN parameters, via the control action in the ensuing RIC Control Request IE.

#### 7.5.5.5 INSERT Service RIC Call Process ID IE contents
This INSERT Service style uses E2SM-RC Call Process ID Format 1 IE (9.2.1.5.1).

### 7.5.6 INSERT Service Style 5: Dual Connectivity Control Request

#### 7.5.6.1 INSERT Service Style description
This INSERT Service style provides a mechanism to initiate request for controlling the dual connectivity of the UE using the RIC Indication Message IE and associated RIC Indication Header IE. The E2 node sends a RIC Indication message to the near-RT RIC and the ongoing call process is suspended at the E2 node until the E2 node hears back from the RIC. The optional RIC Call Process ID IE is used by the E2 node to match a RIC Control Request message to a RIC Indication message, following which the E2 node can resume the suspended call processing for the UE. Applications of this service include:
- Request for Dual connectivity (EN-DC, MR-DC or NR-NR DC) initiation for a selected UE towards a target
secondary cell (PScell)
- Request for Secondary cell change for a selected UE towards a target secondary cell (PScell)
- Request for Dual connectivity (EN-DC, MR-DC or NR-NR DC) modification for a selected UE
- Request for Dual connectivity (EN-DC, MR-DC or NR-NR DC) release initiation for a selected UE
- Request for Change of bearer termination point (MN or SN) and/or bearer types for a selected UE
This Insert style supports the following Indication services, each service listed below with a corresponding Indication ID. The RAN parameters, associated with each Insert Indication service, are listed in the clauses shown below. Indication Indication Insert Indication Description Associated ID Name RAN parameters DC Secondary To request secondary node addition for dual connectivity 8.3.6.1 Node Addition Control request DC Secondary To request modification of secondary node for DC 8.3.6.2 Node Modification and Release Control request DC PSCell To request PSCell change of a UE within a secondary node or to 8.3.6.3 Change control another secondary node request DC Secondary To request changing the secondary node of a UE for DC 8.3.6.4 Node Change Control request DC DRB To request a change in the bearer termination point 8.3.2.5 termination control request

#### 7.5.6.2 INSERT Service RIC Action Definition IE contents
This INSERT Service style uses the E2SM-RC Action Definition Format 3 IE (9.2.1.2.3). The Insert style deals with the supported Indication services, each service with a corresponding Indication ID listed in Clause 7.5.6.1. The RAN parameters, associated with each Insert Indication service, are included by the E2 node in the RIC Indication message. Via the RIC Indication message, the E2 node seeks the near-RT RIC to accept or deny the request raised by the E2 node and to accordingly set the values for the associated RAN parameters by the RIC via the control action in the ensuing RIC Control Request message from the RIC.

#### 7.5.6.3 INSERT Service RIC Indication Header IE contents
This INSERT Service style uses E2SM-RC Indication Header Format 2 IE (9.2.1.3.2). The RIC Indication Header IE has the UE ID, the Insert Service Style ID and the corresponding Insert Indication ID.

#### 7.5.6.4 INSERT Service RIC Indication Message IE contents
This INSERT Service style uses E2SM-RC Indication Message Format 5 IE (9.2.1.4.5). The RIC Indication Message IE includes a sequence of associated RAN parameters for which the E2 node seeks the near-RT RIC to accept/deny the request raised by the E2 node and accordingly set the values for the associated RAN parameters, via the control action in the ensuing RIC Control Request IE.

#### 7.5.6.5 INSERT Service RIC Call Process ID IE contents
This INSERT Service style uses E2SM-RC Call Process ID Format 1 IE (9.2.1.5.1).

### 7.5.7 INSERT Service Style 6: Carrier Aggregation Control Request

#### 7.5.7.1 INSERT Service Style description
This INSERT Service style provides a mechanism to initiate request for controlling the carrier aggregation of the UE using the RIC Indication Message IE and associated RIC Indication Header IE. The E2 node sends a RIC Indication message to the near-RT RIC and the ongoing call process is suspended at the E2 node until the E2 node hears back from the RIC. The optional RIC Call Process ID IE is used by the E2 node to match a RIC Control Request message to a RIC Indication message, following which the E2 node can resume the suspended call processing for the UE. Applications of this service include:
- Request for Carrier Aggregation (CA) initiation for a selected UE towards a target secondary cell or cells
- Request for Carrier Aggregation (CA) modification for a selected UE, or Secondary cell change for a selected UE
towards a target secondary cell or cells
- Request for Carrier Aggregation (CA) release initiation for a selected UE
This Insert style supports the following Indication services, each service listed below with a corresponding Indication ID. The RAN parameters, associated with each Insert Indication service, are listed in the clauses shown below. Indication Indication Name Insert Indication Description Associated ID RAN parameters CA Secondary Cell To request control of the secondary cell addition for a UE 8.3.7.1 Addition Control request CA Secondary Cell To request control of the modification and release of secondary 8.3.7.2 Modification and cells for a UE Release Control request

#### 7.5.7.2 INSERT Service RIC Action Definition IE contents
This INSERT Service style uses the E2SM-RC Action Definition Format 3 IE (9.2.1.2.3). The Insert style deals with the supported Indication services, each service with a corresponding Indication ID listed in Clause 7.5.7.1. The RAN parameters, associated with each Insert Indication service, are included by the E2 node in the RIC Indication message. Via the RIC Indication message, the E2 node seeks the near-RT RIC to accept or deny the request raised by the E2 node and to accordingly, set the values for the associated RAN parameters by the RIC via the control action in the ensuing RIC Control Request message from the RIC.

#### 7.5.7.3 INSERT Service RIC Indication Header IE contents
This INSERT Service style uses E2SM-RC Indication Header Format 2 IE (9.2.1.3.2). The RIC Indication Header IE has the UE ID, the Insert Service Style ID and the corresponding Insert Indication ID.

#### 7.5.7.4 INSERT Service RIC Indication Message IE contents
This INSERT Service style uses E2SM-RC Indication Message Format 5 IE (9.2.1.4.5). The RIC Indication Message IE includes a sequence of associated RAN parameters for which the E2 node seeks the near-RT RIC to accept/deny the request raised by the E2 node and accordingly set the values for the associated RAN parameters, via the control action in the ensuing RIC Control Request IE.

#### 7.5.7.5 INSERT Service RIC Call Process ID IE contents
This INSERT Service style uses E2SM-RC Call Process ID Format 1 IE (9.2.1.5.1).

### 7.5.8 INSERT Service Style 7: Idle Mode Mobility Control Request

#### 7.5.8.1 INSERT Service Style description
This INSERT Service style provides a mechanism to initiate request for controlling the idle mode mobility of the UE using the RIC Indication Message IE and associated RIC Indication Header IE. The E2 node sends a RIC Indication message to the near-RT RIC and the ongoing call process is suspended at the E2 node until the E2 node hears back from the RIC. The optional RIC Call Process ID IE is used by the E2 node to match a RIC Control Request message to a RIC Indication message, following which the E2 node can resume the suspended call processing for the UE. Applications of this service include:
- Intra-frequency, inter-frequency, inter-RAT cell reselection priority
- Idle timers
This Insert style supports the following Indication services, each service listed below with a corresponding Indication ID. The RAN parameters, associated with each Insert Indication service, are listed in the clauses shown below. Indication Indication Name Insert Indication Description Associated ID RAN parameters Cell re-selection To request assignment of cell re-selection priorities for a UE 8.3.8.1 priority request during idle mode (RRC_IDLE)

#### 7.5.8.2 INSERT Service RIC Action Definition IE contents
This INSERT Service style uses the E2SM-RC Action Definition Format 3 IE (9.2.1.2.3). The Insert style deals with the supported Indication services, each service with a corresponding Indication ID listed in Clause 7.5.8.1. The RAN parameters, associated with each Insert Indication service, are included by the E2 node in the RIC Indication message. Via the RIC Indication message, the E2 node seeks the near-RT RIC to accept or deny the request raised by the E2 node and to accordingly, set the values for the associated RAN parameters by the RIC via the control action in the ensuing RIC Control Request message from the RIC.

#### 7.5.8.3 INSERT Service RIC Indication Header IE contents
This INSERT Service style uses E2SM-RC Indication Header Format 2 IE (9.2.1.3.2). The RIC Indication Header IE has the UE ID, the Insert Service Style ID and the corresponding Insert Indication ID.

#### 7.5.8.4 INSERT Service RIC Indication Message IE contents
This INSERT Service style uses E2SM-RC Indication Message Format 5 IE (9.2.1.4.5). The RIC Indication Message IE includes a sequence of associated RAN parameters for which the E2 node seeks the near-RT RIC to accept/deny the request raised by the E2 node or accordingly set the values for the associated RAN parameters, via the control action in the ensuing RIC Control Request IE.

#### 7.5.8.5 INSERT Service RIC Call Process ID IE contents
This INSERT Service style uses E2SM-RC Call Process ID Format 1 IE (9.2.1.5.1).

### 7.5.9 INSERT Service Style 255: Multiple Actions Control Request

#### 7.5.9.1 INSERT Service Style description
This INSERT Service style provides a mechanism which contains multiple Insert Indication actions of the selected fundamental level INSERT Service style(s), in order to initiate request to the Near-RT RIC for controlling multiple actions of the supporting functionalities related to the corresponding fundamental level CONTROL Service style(s). If at least one of the embedded Insert Indications is not admitted by E2 node, then the E2 node shall declare the INSERT Action as failed.

#### 7.5.9.2 INSERT Service RIC Action Definition IE contents
This INSERT Service style uses the E2SM-RC Action Definition Format 4 IE (9.2.1.2.4). For each Insert Indication action, the corresponding Insert Indication ID IE and the associated RAN parameters follow the definitions of the selected fundamental level INSERT Service style indicated by the Requested Insert Style IE.

#### 7.5.9.3 INSERT Service RIC Indication Header IE contents
This INSERT Service style uses E2SM-RC Indication Header Format 3 IE (9.2.1.3.3). The RIC Indication Header IE may contain the UE ID IE, to indicate to the Near-RT RIC that this INSERT indication is only for that specific UE.

#### 7.5.9.4 INSERT Service RIC Indication Message IE contents
This INSERT Service style uses E2SM-RC Indication Message Format 6 IE (9.2.1.4.6). For each Insert Indication action, the corresponding Insert Indication ID IE and the associated RAN parameters follow the definitions of the selected fundamental level INSERT Service style indicated by the Indicated Insert Style IE.

#### 7.5.9.5 INSERT Service RIC Call Process ID IE contents
This INSERT Service style uses E2SM-RC Call Process ID Format 1 IE (9.2.1.5.1).

## 7.6 Supported RIC CONTROL Services

### 7.6.1 CONTROL Service Style Types
RIC Style Type Style Name Style Description Radio Bearer control Used to modify the configuration the Radio Bearer Control (RBC) related parameters and/or behaviours at the E2 Node for a specific UE or a UE group. Belongs to Fundamental level CONTROL Services. Radio resource allocation Used to modify the configuration the Radio Resource Allocation control control related parameters and/or behaviours at the E2 Node for a specific E2 Node, cell, slice, UE and/or QoS Belongs to Fundamental level CONTROL Services. Connected mode mobility Used to initiate a connected mode mobility procedure (Handover control or Conditional Handover), optionally with Dual Active Protocol Stack (DAPS), for a specific UE towards either a target cell (for HO) or a list of candidate cells (for CHO) Used to configure and control the UE-specific cell switch restriction list (CSRL) Belongs to Fundamental level CONTROL Services. Radio access control Used to modify Radio access related functions used to control UE access to cells Belongs to Fundamental level CONTROL Services. Dual connectivity (DC) control Used to initiate Dual connectivity (DC) mechanisms Belongs to Fundamental level CONTROL Services. Carrier Aggregation (CA) Used to initiate Carrier Aggregation (CA) mechanisms control Belongs to Fundamental level CONTROL Services. Idle mode mobility control Used to modify Idle mode mobility related functions used to control UE reselection of cells Belongs to Fundamental level CONTROL Services. UE identification, information Used for Explicit UE list assignment, UE information report and assignment generation and to complete UE identification. These services are used to support other RIC services. Belongs to Fundamental level CONTROL Services. Measurement Reporting Used to control the measurement report configuration for a given Configuration control UE or a group of UEs. Beamforming Configuration Used to control beamforming configuration for a specific UE. control

# 255 Multiple Actions Control Used for multiple actions of the selected fundamental level
CONTROL Service style(s). Belongs to integrated level CONTROL Services. Each of the Control Service styles 1-10 listed above points to adopt the following common features:
- Control Action ID: The index ID for the individual control action under a given Control Service style.
- Control Action Name: Indicates the functionality of the E2 node which is controlled by Near-RT RIC
- Control Action Description: Describes the control action and functionality of the receiving E2 Node.
- Associated RAN parameters: Identifies the RAN parameters to be controlled by Near-RT RIC pertaining to the given
control action and used in the optional RIC Control Outcome to carry information. The Control Service style 255 supports multiple parallel actions configured per RIC Control Request message by reusing the control actions and the associated RAN parameters defined in the selected fundamental level Control Service style(s). The details of the individual Control Service styles are provided in subsequent clauses. The CONTROL Service supports UE-specific control actions and UE group-specific control actions. In the case of a UE group-based control action, the control action is defined for a group of UEs, and the individual entities of each UE (such as DRBs, QoS flows, etc.) in the group that match the entity filter condition, shall be subject to the control action.

### 7.6.2 CONTROL Service Style 1: Radio Bearer Control

#### 7.6.2.1 CONTROL Service Style description
This CONTROL Service style provides a mechanism to initiate or resume a radio bearer control related process using the RIC Control Message IE and associated RIC Control Header IE and the optional RIC Call Process ID IE used when resuming a call process following a previous INSERT service. The corresponding INSERT service is service style 1 covered in Clause 7.5.2. Applications of this service include:
- DRB QoS Modification, to tune DRB level QoS related parameters to meet the QoS optimization targets.
- QoS Flow (re)mapping, to adjust the mapping relationship between QoS flows and DRBs.
- Logical channel (re)configuration
- Radio Bearer Admission Control, to configure DRB admission control such as reject or release may be applied
- Split bearer and PDCP duplication control
The supported RAN control actions and the corresponding RAN parameters are as follows. Control Control Control Action description Is UE group- Associated Action Action Name based control RAN ID action Parameters allowed DRB QoS To control the configuration of the QoS profile of a DRB or a set YES 8.4.2.1 Configuration of DRBs QoS flow To control the multiplexing of QoS flows to a DRB (addition, FFS 8.4.2.2 mapping modification, deletion configuration Logical To control the LCID configuration of a DRB or a set of DRBs YES 8.4.2.3 channel configuration Radio To control radio admission of a UE FFS 8.4.2.4 admission control DRB To control the change in bearer termination point FFS 8.4.2.5 termination control DRB split To control the split ratio of a DRB across its RLC entities FFS 8.4.2.6 ratio control PDCP To control activation or de-activation of PDCP duplication for a YES 8.4.2.7 Duplication DRB or a set of DRBs, and control/configure the number of legs control or RLC entities for the DRB(s)

#### 7.6.2.2 CONTROL Service RIC Control Header IE contents
This CONTROL Service RIC Control Header IE has the UE ID IE, the Control Service Style ID, the Control Action ID IE and the RIC Control Decision IE that indicates whether the RIC accepts or rejects the INDICATION request from the previous incoming INSERT indication, if any (with matching RAN Call Process ID IE), from the E2 node. This CONTROL style uses E2SM-RC Control Header Format 1 IE (9.2.1.6.1). For UE group-based CONTROL action, this CONTROL style uses the E2SM-RC Control Header Format 3 IE (9.2.1.6.3), where the RIC Control Header IE has the UE Group ID IE for identifying the UE group, the UE Group Definition IE for defining the UE group, along with the RIC Style Type IE and the Control Action ID IE.

#### 7.6.2.3 CONTROL Service RIC Control Message IE contents
This CONTROL Service RIC Control Message IE contains the sequence of RAN parameters, associated with a given Control Action within this Control Service style, controlled by the near-RT RIC along with the values for these parameters, as set by the RIC. This CONTROL style uses E2SM-RC Control Message Format 1 IE (9.2.1.7.1). If there is a previous INSERT Indication Request to the RIC, then the corresponding Control Action ID used by the RIC for the ensuing CONTROL Request message is the one that matches the Insert Indication ID, among the ones provided in the table shown in Clause 7.6.2.1. It is to be noted that the control action “Radio admission control” (corresponding to control action ID 4) is used only as a response to an incoming INSERT indication with the corresponding service style and indication request ID and cannot be used asynchronously without a previous INSERT indication. For UE group-based CONTROL action, this CONTROL style uses the E2SM-RC Control Message Format 3 IE (9.2.1.7.3). The RIC Control Message IE includes the list of filter definitions for identifying the relevant RAN entities of the UE group, given by the Entity Filter Definition IE in the List of entity filters IE, along with the identifier of the entity filter given by the Entity Filter ID IE, for which the control action is applicable. The sequence of RAN parameters controlled by the Near-RT RIC for the entities of the UEs in the group, corresponding to each entity filter, is given by the List of RAN control parameters for the matching entities IE.

#### 7.6.2.4 CONTROL Service RIC Call Process ID IE contents
This CONTROL Service RIC Call Process ID IE contains identifier used by the Near-RT RIC to allow the RAN Function to match the outgoing INSERT Service message with a subsequent incoming CONTROL Service message. This CONTROL Service style uses E2SM-RC Call Process ID Format 1 IE (9.2.1.5.1).

#### 7.6.2.5 CONTROL Service RIC Control Outcome IE contents
This CONTROL Service RIC Control Outcome IE contains a transparent container that is used to carry the outcome of processing the incoming RIC Control Request message. However, this does not reflect the outcome of the call processing upon receiving the message. This CONTROL style uses E2SM-RC Control Outcome Format 1 IE (9.2.1.8.1). RAN RAN Parameter RAN Parameter Type Parameter Description Parameter Name ID ReceivedTimestamp OCTET STRING (SIZE(8)) Time RIC Control Request message received by RAN Function over E2 interface. Carries UTC time encoded as the 64-bit timestamp format as defined in Clause 6 of IETF RFC 5905 [30] containing both seconds and fraction parts.

### 7.6.3 CONTROL Service Style 2: Radio Resource Allocation Control

#### 7.6.3.1 CONTROL Service Style description
This CONTROL Service style provides a mechanism to initiate or resume a radio resource allocation control related process using the RIC Control Message IE and associated RIC Control Header IE and the optional RIC Call Process ID IE used when resuming a call process following a previous INSERT service. The corresponding INSERT service is service style 2 covered in Clause 7.5.3. Applications of this service include:
- Discontinuous Reception (DRX) control
- Scheduling request (SR) control
- Semi-Persistent Scheduling (SPS) control
- Configured Grant control
- Channel State Information (CSI) report configuration control
- Slice level PRB quota
- Sounding Reference Signal (SRS) configuration control
- CSI resource configuration control
- DMRS-Downlink configuration control
- Uplink power control
The supported RAN control actions and the corresponding RAN parameters are as follows. Control Control Control Action description Associated Action Action Name RAN ID Parameters DRX To control the configuration of DRX parameters 8.4.3.1 parameter configuration SR periodicity To control the configuration of SR periodicity parameters 8.4.3.2 configuration SPS To control the configuration of SPS parameters 8.4.3.3 parameters configuration Configured To control the configuration of uplink grants to the UE 8.4.3.4 grant control CSI reports To control the configuration of CSI reports. 8.4.3.5 configuration Slice-level To control the radio resource management policy for slice-specific PRB 8.4.3.6 PRB quota quota allocation DMRS- To control the configuaration of DMRS for PDSCH 8.4.3.7 Downlink configuration SRS To control the configuration of the SRS transmissions 8.4.3.8 Configuration CSI Resource To control the configuration of the CSI resources 8.4.3.9 Configuration Uplink power To control the transmit power in uplink 8.4.3.10 control

#### 7.6.3.2 CONTROL Service RIC Control Header IE contents
This CONTROL Service RIC Control Header IE has the UE ID IE, the Control Service Style ID, the Control Action ID IE and the RIC Control Decision IE that indicates whether the RIC accepts or rejects the INDICATION request from the previous incoming INSERT indication, if any (with matching RAN Call Process ID IE), from the E2 node. This CONTROL style uses E2SM-RC Control Header Format 1 IE (9.2.1.6.1).

#### 7.6.3.3 CONTROL Service RIC Control Message IE contents
This CONTROL Service RIC Control Message IE contains the sequence of RAN parameters, associated with a given Control Action within this Control Service style, controlled by the near-RT RIC along with the values for these parameters, as set by the RIC. This CONTROL style uses E2SM-RC Control Message Format 1 IE (9.2.1.7.1). If there is a previous INSERT Indication Request to the RIC, then the corresponding Control Action ID used by the RIC for the ensuing CONTROL Request message is the one that matches the Insert Indication ID, among the ones provided in the table shown in Clause 7.6.3.1.

#### 7.6.3.4 CONTROL Service RIC Call Process ID IE contents
This CONTROL Service RIC Call Process ID IE contains identifier used by the Near-RT RIC to allow the RAN Function to match the outgoing INSERT Service message with a subsequent incoming CONTROL Service message. This CONTROL Service style uses E2SM-RC Call Process ID Format 1 IE (9.2.1.5.1).

#### 7.6.3.5 CONTROL Service RIC Control Outcome IE contents
This CONTROL Service RIC Control Outcome IE contains a transparent container that is used to carry the outcome of processing the incoming RIC Control Request message. However, this does not reflect the outcome of the call processing upon receiving the message. This CONTROL style uses E2SM-RC Control Outcome Format 1 IE (9.2.1.8.1). RAN RAN Parameter RAN Parameter Type Parameter Description Parameter Name ID ReceivedTimestamp OCTET STRING (SIZE(8)) Time RIC Control Request message received by RAN Function over E2 interface. Carries UTC time encoded as the 64-bit timestamp format as defined in Clause 6 of IETF RFC 5905 [30] containing both seconds and fraction parts.

### 7.6.4 CONTROL Service Style 3: Connected Mode Mobility Control

#### 7.6.4.1 CONTROL Service Style description
This CONTROL Service style provides a mechanism to initiate or resume a connected mode mobility control related process using the RIC Control Message IE and associated RIC Control Header IE and the optional RIC Call Process ID IE used when resuming a call process following a previous INSERT service. The corresponding INSERT service is service style 3 covered in Clause 7.5.4. Applications of this service include:
- Handover (HO) initiation for a selected UE towards a target cell
- Conditional handover (CHO) initiation for a selected UE towards a list of candidate cell(s)
- Handover (HO) initiation with Dual Active Protocol Stack (DAPS) for a selected UE towards a target cell
- Enable cell switch restriction list for a selected UE towards specific target cell(s)
The supported RAN control actions and the corresponding RAN parameters are as follows. Control Control Action Control Action description Associated RAN Action Name parameters ID Handover To control the handover of the primary cell and subsequent 8.4.4.1 Control secondary cell reselection Conditional To control the conditional handover involving target primary 8.4.4.2 Handover cells Control DAPS (Dual To control the DAPS handover of the UE between source cell 8.4.4.3 Active Protocol and target cell Stack) Handover Control Cell Switch To configure and control the UE-specific cell switch restriction 8.4.4.4 Restriction List list (CSRL) In this version of E2SM-RC specification, Control Action ID 4 - Cell Switch Restriction List is limited to the NG RAN gNB and O-CU-CP E2 Node Component Type.

#### 7.6.4.2 CONTROL Service RIC Control Header IE contents
This CONTROL Service RIC Control Header IE has the UE ID IE, the Control Service Style ID, the Control Action ID IE and the RIC Control Decision IE that indicates whether the RIC accepts or rejects the INDICATION request from the previous incoming INSERT indication, if any (with matching RAN Call Process ID IE), from the E2 node. This CONTROL style uses E2SM-RC Control Header Format 1 IE (9.2.1.6.1).

#### 7.6.4.3 CONTROL Service RIC Control Message IE contents
This CONTROL Service RIC Control Message IE contains the sequence of RAN parameters, associated with a given Control Action within this Control Service style, controlled by the near-RT RIC along with the values for these parameters, as set by the RIC. This CONTROL style uses E2SM-RC Control Message Format 1 IE (9.2.1.7.1). If there is a previous INSERT Indication Request to the RIC, then the corresponding Control Action ID used by the RIC for the ensuing CONTROL Request message is the one that matches the Insert Indication ID, among the ones provided in the table shown in Clause 7.6.4.1.

#### 7.6.4.4 CONTROL Service RIC Call Process ID IE contents
This CONTROL Service RIC Call Process ID IE contains identifier used by the Near-RT RIC to allow the RAN Function to match the outgoing INSERT Service message with a subsequent incoming CONTROL Service message. This CONTROL Service style uses E2SM-RC Call Process ID Format 1 IE (9.2.1.5.1).

#### 7.6.4.5 CONTROL Service RIC Control Outcome IE content
This CONTROL Service RIC Control Outcome IE contains a transparent container that is used to carry the outcome of processing the incoming RIC Control Request message. However, this does not reflect the outcome of the call processing upon receiving the message. This CONTROL style uses E2SM-RC Control Outcome Format 1 IE (9.2.1.8.1). RAN RAN Parameter RAN Parameter Type Parameter Description Parameter Name ID ReceivedTimestamp OCTET STRING (SIZE(8)) Time RIC Control Request message received by RAN Function over E2 interface. Carries UTC time encoded as the 64-bit timestamp format as defined in Clause 6 of IETF RFC 5905 [30] containing both seconds and fraction parts.

### 7.6.5 CONTROL Service Style 4: Radio Access Control

#### 7.6.5.1 CONTROL Service Style description
This CONTROL Service style provides a mechanism to initiate or resume a radio access control related process using the RIC Control Message IE and associated RIC Control Header IE and the optional RIC Call Process ID IE used when resuming a call process following a previous INSERT service. The corresponding INSERT service is service style 4 covered in Clause 7.5.5. Applications of this service include:
- RACH back-off
- RRC connection reject
- RRC connection release
- Access barring
- UE admission
The supported RAN control actions and the corresponding RAN parameters are as follows. Control Control Action Control Action Description Associated RAN Action Name Parameters ID

#### 7.6.5.2 CONTROL Service RIC Control Header IE contents
This CONTROL Service RIC Control Header IE has the UE ID IE, the Control Service Style ID, the Control Action ID IE and the RIC Control Decision IE that indicates whether the RIC accepts or rejects the INDICATION request from the previous incoming INSERT indication, if any (with matching RAN Call Process ID IE), from the E2 node. This CONTROL style uses E2SM-RC Control Header Format 1 IE (9.2.1.6.1).

#### 7.6.5.3 CONTROL Service RIC Control Message IE contents
This CONTROL Service RIC Control Message IE contains the sequence of RAN parameters, associated with a given Control Action within this Control Service style, controlled by the near-RT RIC along with the values for these parameters, as set by the RIC. This CONTROL style uses E2SM-RC Control Message Format 1 IE (9.2.1.7.1). If there is a previous INSERT Indication Request to the RIC, then the corresponding Control Action ID used by the RIC for the ensuing CONTROL Request message is the one that matches the Insert Indication ID, among the ones provided in the table shown in Clause 7.6.5.1. However, the control action “RRC Connection Reject control” (corresponding to control action ID 5) can also be used to handle an incoming INSERT Indication Request corresponding to service style 4 that uses Indication request ID 1 (that corresponds to UE Admission Control Request). It is also to be noted that the control action “UE admission control” (corresponding to control action ID 1) is used only as a response to an incoming INSERT indication with the corresponding service style and indication request ID and cannot be used asynchronously without a previous INSERT indication.

#### 7.6.5.4 CONTROL Service RIC Call Process ID IE contents
This CONTROL Service RIC Call Process ID IE contains identifier used by the Near-RT RIC to allow the RAN Function to match the outgoing INSERT Service message with a subsequent incoming CONTROL Service message. This CONTROL Service style uses E2SM-RC Call Process ID Format 1 IE (9.2.1.5.1).

#### 7.6.5.5 CONTROL Service RIC Control Outcome IE contents
This CONTROL Service RIC Control Outcome IE contains a transparent container that is used to carry the outcome of processing the incoming RIC Control Request message. However, this does not reflect the outcome of the call processing upon receiving the message. This CONTROL style uses E2SM-RC Control Outcome Format 1 IE (9.2.1.8.1). RAN RAN Parameter RAN Parameter Type Parameter Description Parameter Name ID ReceivedTimestamp OCTET STRING (SIZE(8)) Time RIC Control Request message received by RAN Function over E2 interface. Carries UTC time encoded as the 64-bit timestamp format as defined in Clause 6 of IETF RFC 5905 [30] containing both seconds and fraction parts.

### 7.6.6 CONTROL Service Style 5: Dual Connectivity Control

#### 7.6.6.1 CONTROL Service Style description
This CONTROL Service style provides a mechanism to initiate or resume a dual connectivity control related process using the RIC Control Message IE and associated RIC Control Header IE and the optional RIC Call Process ID IE used when resuming a call process following a previous INSERT service. The corresponding INSERT service is service style 5 covered in Clause 7.5.6. Applications of this service include:
- Dual connectivity (EN-DC, MR-DC or NR-NR DC) initiation for a selected UE towards a target secondary cell (PScell)
- Secondary cell change for a selected UE towards a target secondary cell (PScell)
- Dual connectivity (EN-DC, MR-DC or NR-NR DC) modification for a selected UE
- Dual connectivity (EN-DC, MR-DC or NR-NR DC) release initiation for a selected UE
- Change of bearer termination point (MN or SN) and/or bearer types for a selected UE
The supported RAN control actions and the corresponding RAN parameters are as follows. Control Control Action Control Action Description Associated Action Name RAN ID parameters DC Secondary To control secondary node addition for dual connectivity 8.4.6.1 Node Addition Control DC Secondary To control modification and release of secondary node for DC 8.4.6.2 Node Modification and release Control DC PSCell To control PSCell change of a UE within a secondary node or to another 8.4.6.3 Change control secondary node DC Secondary To control changing the secondary node of a UE for DC 8.4.6.4 Node Change Control

#### 7.6.6.2 CONTROL Service RIC Control Header IE contents
This CONTROL Service RIC Control Header IE has the UE ID IE, the Control Service Style ID, the Control Action ID IE and the RIC Control Decision IE that indicates whether the RIC accepts or rejects the INDICATION request from the previous incoming INSERT indication, if any (with matching RAN Call Process ID IE), from the E2 node. This CONTROL style uses E2SM-RC Control Header Format 1 IE (9.2.1.6.1).

#### 7.6.6.3 CONTROL Service RIC Control Message IE contents
This CONTROL Service RIC Control Message IE contains the sequence of RAN parameters, associated with a given Control Action within this Control Service style, controlled by the near-RT RIC along with the values for these parameters, as set by the RIC. This CONTROL style uses E2SM-RC Control Message Format 1 IE (9.2.1.7.1). If there is a previous INSERT Indication Request to the RIC, then the corresponding Control Action ID used by the RIC for the ensuing CONTROL Request message is the one that matches the Insert Indication ID, among the ones provided in the table shown in Clause 7.6.6.1.

#### 7.6.6.4 CONTROL Service RIC Call Process ID IE contents
This CONTROL Service RIC Call Process ID IE contains identifier used by the Near-RT RIC to allow the RAN Function to match the outgoing INSERT Service message with a subsequent incoming CONTROL Service message. This CONTROL Service style uses E2SM-RC Call Process ID Format 1 IE (9.2.1.5.1).

#### 7.6.6.5 CONTROL Service RIC Control Outcome IE contents
This CONTROL Service RIC Control Outcome IE contains a transparent container that is used to carry the outcome of processing the incoming RIC Control Request message. However, this does not reflect the outcome of the call processing upon receiving the message. This CONTROL style uses E2SM-RC Control Outcome Format 1 IE (9.2.1.8.1). RAN RAN Parameter RAN Parameter Type Parameter Description Parameter Name ID ReceivedTimestamp OCTET STRING (SIZE(8)) Time RIC Control Request message received by RAN Function over E2 interface. Carries UTC time encoded as the 64-bit timestamp format as defined in Clause 6 of IETF RFC 5905 [30] containing both seconds and fraction parts.

### 7.6.7 CONTROL Service Style 6: Carrier Aggregation Control

#### 7.6.7.1 CONTROL Service Style description
This CONTROL Service style provides a mechanism to initiate or resume a carrier aggregation control related process using the RIC Control Message IE and associated RIC Control Header IE and the optional RIC Call Process ID IE used when resuming a call process following a previous INSERT service. The corresponding INSERT service is service style 6 covered in Clause 7.5.7. Applications of this service include:
- Carrier Aggregation (CA) initiation for a selected UE towards a target secondary cell or cells
- Secondary cell change for a selected UE towards a target secondary cell or cells
- Carrier Aggregation (CA) modification for a selected UE
- Carrier Aggregation (CA) release initiation for a selected UE
The supported RAN control actions and the corresponding RAN parameters are as follows. Control Control Control Action Description Associated Action Action Name RAN ID parameters CA Secondary To control secondary cell addition for a UE 8.4.7.1 Cell Addition Control CA Secondary To control modification and release of secondary cells for a UE 8.4.7.2 Cell Modification Control

#### 7.6.7.2 CONTROL Service RIC Control Header IE contents
This CONTROL Service RIC Control Header IE has the UE ID IE, the Control Service Style ID, the Control Action ID IE and the RIC Control Decision IE that indicates whether the RIC accepts or rejects the INDICATION request from the previous incoming INSERT indication, if any (with matching RAN Call Process ID IE), from the E2 node. This CONTROL style uses E2SM-RC Control Header Format 1 IE (9.2.1.6.1).

#### 7.6.7.3 CONTROL Service RIC Control Message IE contents
This CONTROL Service RIC Control Message IE contains the sequence of RAN parameters, associated with a given Control Action within this Control Service style, controlled by the near-RT RIC along with the values for these parameters, as set by the RIC. This CONTROL style uses E2SM-RC Control Message Format 1 IE (9.2.1.7.1). If there is a previous INSERT Indication Request to the RIC, then the corresponding Control Action ID used by the RIC for the ensuing CONTROL Request message is the one that matches the Insert Indication ID, among the ones provided in the table shown in Clause 7.6.7.1.

#### 7.6.7.4 CONTROL Service RIC Call Process ID IE contents
This CONTROL Service RIC Call Process ID IE contains identifier used by the Near-RT RIC to allow the RAN Function to match the outgoing INSERT Service message with a subsequent incoming CONTROL Service message. This CONTROL Service style uses E2SM-RC Call Process ID Format 1 IE (9.2.1.5.1).

#### 7.6.7.5 CONTROL Service RIC Control Outcome IE contents
This CONTROL Service RIC Control Outcome IE contains a transparent container that is used to carry the outcome of processing the incoming RIC Control Request message. However, this does not reflect the outcome of the call processing upon receiving the message. This CONTROL style uses E2SM-RC Control Outcome Format 1 IE (9.2.1.8.1). RAN RAN Parameter RAN Parameter Type Parameter Description Parameter Name ID ReceivedTimestamp OCTET STRING (SIZE(8)) Time RIC Control Request message received by RAN Function over E2 interface. Carries UTC time encoded as the 64-bit timestamp format as defined in Clause 6 of IETF RFC 5905 [30] containing both seconds and fraction parts.

### 7.6.8 CONTROL Service Style 7: Idle Mode Mobility Control

#### 7.6.8.1 CONTROL Service Style description
This CONTROL Service style provides a mechanism to initiate or resume a idle mode mobility control related process using the RIC Control Message IE and associated RIC Control Header IE and the optional RIC Call Process ID IE used when resuming a call process following a previous INSERT service. The corresponding INSERT service is service style 6 covered in Clause 7.5.7. Applications of this service include:
- Intra-frequency, inter-frequency, inter-RAT cell reselection priority
- Idle timers
The supported RAN control actions and the corresponding RAN parameters are as follows. Control Control Action Control Action Description Associated Action Name RAN ID parameters Cell re-selection To assign cell re-selection priorities for a UE during idle mode 8.4.8.1 priority control (RRC_IDLE)

#### 7.6.8.2 CONTROL Service RIC Control Header IE contents
This CONTROL Service RIC Control Header IE has the UE ID IE, the Control Service Style ID, the Control Action ID IE and the RIC Control Decision IE that indicates whether the RIC accepts or rejects the INDICATION request from the previous incoming INSERT indication, if any (with matching RAN Call Process ID IE), from the E2 node. This CONTROL style uses E2SM-RC Control Header Format 1 IE (9.2.1.6.1).

#### 7.6.8.3 CONTROL Service RIC Control Message IE contents
This CONTROL Service RIC Control Message IE contains the sequence of RAN parameters, associated with a given Control Action within this Control Service style, controlled by the near-RT RIC along with the values for these parameters, as set by the RIC. This CONTROL style uses E2SM-RC Control Message Format 1 IE (9.2.1.7.1) If there is a previous INSERT Indication Request to the RIC, then the corresponding Control Action ID used by the RIC for the ensuing CONTROL Request message is the one that matches the Insert Indication ID, among the ones provided in the table shown in Clause 7.6.8.1.

#### 7.6.8.4 CONTROL Service RIC Call Process ID IE contents
This CONTROL Service RIC Call Process ID IE contains identifier used by the Near-RT RIC to allow the RAN Function to match the outgoing INSERT Service message with a subsequent incoming CONTROL Service message. This CONTROL Service style uses E2SM-RC Call Process ID Format 1 IE (9.2.1.5.1).

#### 7.6.8.5 CONTROL Service RIC Control Outcome IE contents
This CONTROL Service RIC Control Outcome IE contains a transparent container that is used to carry the outcome of processing the incoming RIC Control Request message. However, this does not reflect the outcome of the call processing upon receiving the message. This CONTROL style uses E2SM-RC Control Outcome Format 1 IE (9.2.1.8.1). RAN RAN Parameter RAN Parameter Type Parameter Description Parameter Name ID ReceivedTimestamp OCTET STRING (SIZE(8)) Time RIC Control Request message received by RAN Function over E2 interface. Carries UTC time encoded as the 64-bit timestamp format as defined in Clause 6 of IETF RFC 5905 [30] containing both seconds and fraction parts.

### 7.6.9 CONTROL Service Style 8: UE information and assignment

#### 7.6.9.1 CONTROL Service Style description
This CONTROL Service style provides a mechanism to both directly and indirectly monitor and control UE information and to add or remove explicit UE assignments to Explicit UE lists. Applications of this service include:
- UE to Explicit UE list assignment command: Used to Add or Remove the nominated UE to the Explicit UE list name,
also used to request list of supported Explicit UE list
- UE information request: Used to obtain UE information including list of Explicit UE List assignments
- UE identification request: Used to complete UE identification with Partial UE ID carried in RIC Control Header IE
The supported RAN control actions and the corresponding RAN parameters are as follows. Control Control Action Control Action Description RAN Parameter Action Name assignment ID UE to Explicit UE - To modify (add, remove, change) the assignment 8.4.9.1 list assignment of a target UE to an Explicit UE list and send list of command supported Explicit UE list UE information - To provide information on a UE (including list of 8.4.9.2 request assigned Explicit UE List) UE identification - To complete UE identification about a target UE 8.4.9.3 request

#### 7.6.9.2 CONTROL Service RIC Control Header IE contents
This CONTROL Service RIC Control Header IE contains the UE ID IE, RIC Style Type IE and Control Action ID IE. There is no previous INSERT Indication request from the E2 node for this service style. Note that for RIC Action ID =1 "UE to Explicit UE list assignment command", the UE ID IE in the RIC Control Header IE shall be ignored when Assignment command=3 “Send list of supported Explicit UE list” (see clause 8.4.9.1). This CONTROL style uses:
- For the case of Control Action ID =1 "UE to Explicit UE list assignment command" and Control Action ID =2 "UE
information request", E2SM-RC Control Header Format 1 IE (9.2.1.6.1) to be used to identify a specific UE.
- For the case of Control Action 3 "UE identification request", E2SM-RC Control Header Format 4 IE (9.2.1.6.4) to be
used to identify one or more UE matching a Partial UE ID.

#### 7.6.9.3 CONTROL Service RIC Control Message IE contents
This CONTROL Service RIC Control Message IE contains a list of RAN Parameters used to support the information list of Control actions shown in Clause 7.6.9.1. This CONTROL style uses:
- For the case of Control Action = 1 "UE to Explicit UE list assignment command", E2SM-RC Control Message
Format 1 IE (9.2.1.7.1), to be used to carry a sequence of RAN Parameters with values.
- For the case of Control Action = 2 "UE information request", E2SM-RC Control Message Format 4 IE (9.2.1.7.4), to
be used to carry of sequence of RAN Parameter Definitions.
- For the case of Control Action = 3 "UE identification request", E2SM-RC Control Message Format 5 IE (9.2.1.7.5)
containing no information, to be used to satisfy E2AP requirements for a mandatory RIC Control Message IE.

#### 7.6.9.4 CONTROL Service RIC Call Process ID IE contents
This CONTROL Service RIC Call Process ID IE is not supported for this CONTROL service style.

#### 7.6.9.5 CONTROL Service RIC Control Outcome IE contents
This CONTROL Service RIC Control Outcome IE contains a list of RAN Parameters and is used to carry information concerning the outcome of executing the RIC Control Request. Control Control Action Expected information RAN Parameter Action Name assignment ID

### 7.6.10 CONTROL Service Style 255: Multiple Actions Control

#### 7.6.10.1 CONTROL Service Style description
This CONTROL Service style provides a mechanism to initiate multiple control actions of the selected fundamental level CONTROL Service style(s) that should be processed in an integrated manner by the E2 Node, i.e. the RIC Control procedure is considered failed if at least one of the indicated control actions is unsuccessfully executed, and RIC CONTROL FAILURE message shall be sent containing the RIC Control Outcome for failed Control Action.

#### 7.6.10.2 CONTROL Service RIC Control Header IE contents
This CONTROL style uses E2SM-RC Control Header Format 2 IE (9.2.1.6.2). The RIC Indication Header IE may contain the UE ID IE to indicate to the E2 Node that this control request is only for that specific UE. The RIC Control Decision IE may also be included to indicate to the E2 Node whether the Near-RT RIC accepts or rejects the INDICATION request from the previous incoming INSERT indication, if any (with matching RAN Call Process ID IE), from the E2 node.

#### 7.6.10.3 CONTROL Service RIC Control Message IE contents
This CONTROL style uses E2SM-RC Control Message Format 2 IE (9.2.1.7.2). The RAN control actions and the corresponding RAN parameters under a fundamental level Control Service style contained in the RIC Control Message IE follows the definitions of the indicated Control Service style. If this control request is sent as a response to a previous INSERT indication from the E2 node, then the Control Action ID IE in the RIC Control Message IE is set in accordance with the triggered Insert Indication ID.

#### 7.6.10.4 CONTROL Service RIC Call Process ID IE contents
This CONTROL Service style uses E2SM-RC Call Process ID Format 1 IE (9.2.1.5.1). The optional RIC Call Process ID IE is used when resuming a call process following a previous INSERT indication from the E2 Node.

#### 7.6.10.5 CONTROL Service RIC Control Outcome IE contents
This CONTROL style uses E2SM-RC Control Outcome Format 2 IE (9.2.1.8.2). For each control action indicated by the Control Action ID IE, the associated RAN parameters are used to carry the corresponding processing outcome. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Parameter Type Parameter Description Parameter Name ID ReceivedTimestamp OCTET STRING (SIZE(8)) Time RIC Control Request message received by RAN Function over E2 interface. Carries UTC time encoded as the 64-bit timestamp format as defined in Clause 6 of IETF RFC 5905 [30] containing both seconds and fraction parts.

### 7.6.11 CONTROL Service Style 9: Measurement Reporting Configuration
Control

#### 7.6.11.1 CONTROL Service Style description
This CONTROL Service style provides a mechanism to add, modify or delete measurement report configuration for the UE to the network using the RIC Control Message IE and the RIC Control Header IE. Applications of this service include:
- Add configuration of measurement objects, reporting objects, measurement gaps, etc. for UE reporting, pertaining to a
given UE or a group of UEs
- Modify configuration of measurement objects, reporting objects, measurement gaps, etc. for UE reporting, pertaining to
a given UE or a group of UEs
- Delete configuration of measurement objects, reporting objects, measurement gaps, etc. for UE reporting, pertaining to
a given UE or a group of UEs The supported RAN control actions and the corresponding RAN parameters are as follows: Control Control Control Action description Is UE group- Associated RAN Action Action Name based control Parameters ID action allowed Add MR To add configuration of measurement objects, YES 8.4.10.1 Configuration reporting objects, measurement gaps for a given UE or a group of UEs Modify MR To modify configuration of measurement objects, YES 8.4.10.2 Configuration reporting objects, measurement gaps for a given UE or a group of UEs Delete MR To delete configuration of measurement objects, YES 8.4.10.3 Configuration reporting objects, measurement gaps for a given UE or a group of UEs

#### 7.6.11.2 CONTROL Service RIC Control Header IE contents
The CONTROL Service RIC Control Header IE has the UE ID IE, the Control Service Style ID IE, the Control Action ID IE. The RIC Control Decision IE for this service style is currently not supported for this control service style. This CONTROL style uses E2SM-RC Control Header Format 1 IE (9.2.1.6.1). For UE group-based CONTROL action, this CONTROL style uses the E2SM-RC Control Header Format 3 IE (9.2.1.6.3), where the RIC Control Header IE has the UE Group ID IE for identifying the UE group, the UE Group Definition IE for defining the UE group in terms of one or more associated RAN parameters, along with the RIC Style Type IE and the Control Action ID IE.

#### 7.6.11.3 CONTROL Service RIC Control Message IE contents
This CONTROL Service RIC Control Message IE contains the sequence of RAN parameters, associated with a given Control Action within this Control Service style. This CONTROL style uses E2SM-RC Control Message Format 1 IE (9.2.1.7.1). For UE group-based CONTROL action, this CONTROL style uses the E2SM-RC Control Message Format 3 IE (9.2.1.7.3). The RIC Control Message IE may optionally include the list of filter definitions for identifying the relevant RAN entities of the UE group, given by the Entity Filter Definition IE in the List of entity filters IE, along with the identifier of the entity filter given by the Entity Filter ID IE, for which the control action is applicable. The sequence of RAN parameters controlled by the Near-RT RIC for the entities of the UEs in the group, corresponding to each entity filter, is given by the List of RAN control parameters for the matching entities IE. If the UE Group Definition IE and the List of entity filters IE do not point to one or more cells, then the control action is applied to the relevant groups of UEs, as identified by the UE Group Definition IE, across all cells within the E2 node.

#### 7.6.11.4 CONTROL Service RIC Call Process ID IE contents
This CONTROL Service RIC Call Process ID IE is currently not supported for this CONTROL service style.

#### 7.6.11.5 CONTROL Service RIC Control Outcome IE contents
This CONTROL Service RIC Control Outcome IE is used to carry the outcome of processing the incoming RIC Control Request message. The corresponding RAN parameters supported for RIC Control Outcome IE are given in Clause 8.4.10.4. This CONTROL style uses E2SM-RC Control Outcome Format 3 IE (9.2.1.8.3). If the control action is a UE group-based control action, then the CONTROL style uses the E2SM-RC Control Outcome Format 1 IE and includes the RAN parameters shown in table 7.6.11.5-1 in the RIC Control Outcome IE. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Parameter Type Parameter Description Parameter Name ID ReceivedTimestamp OCTET STRING (SIZE(8)) Time RIC Control Request message received by RAN Function over E2 interface. Carries UTC time encoded as the 64-bit timestamp format as defined in Clause 6 of IETF RFC 5905 [30] containing both seconds and fraction parts.

### 7.6.12 CONTROL Service Style 10: Beamforming Configuration Control

#### 7.6.12.1 CONTROL Service Style description
This CONTROL Service style provides a mechanism to add, modify or delete beamforming configuration for a UE using the RIC Control Message IE and the RIC Control Header IE. Applications of this service include:
- Configure, reconfigure, or release Non-GoB beamforming mode [32] for a UE
- Configure, reconfigure, or release GoB beamforming configurations (e.g., PMIs, P2-beam indexes etc.) [32] for a UE
The supported RAN control actions and the corresponding RAN parameters are as follows: Control Control Action Control Action description Associated RAN Action Name Parameters ID Non-GoB BF To configure, reconfigure, or release Non-GoB beamforming mode 8.4.11.1 Mode [32] for a UE. The (re)configured Non-GoB BF mode index is the Configuration best inferred Non-GoB BF mode index by AI/ML to be used for the UE by the scheduler in E2 Node, for which could be configured separately for the case of Single User- and/or Multi-user MIMO [32]. GoB BF To configure, reconfigure, or release GoB beamforming 8.4.11.2 Configuration configuration (e.g., PMIs, P2-beam indexes etc.) for a UE [32]. The (re)configured GoB BF configuration is the best inferred GoB BF configuration by AI/ML to be used for the UE by the scheduler in E2 Node [32].

#### 7.6.12.2 CONTROL Service RIC Control Header IE contents
The CONTROL Service RIC Control Header IE has the UE ID IE, the Control Service Style ID IE, the Control Action ID IE. The RIC Control Decision IE for this service style is currently not supported for this control service style. This CONTROL style uses E2SM-RC Control Header Format 1 IE (9.2.1.6.1).

#### 7.6.12.3 CONTROL Service RIC Control Message IE contents
This CONTROL Service RIC Control Message IE contains the sequence of RAN parameters, associated with a given Control Action within this Control Service style. The corresponding RAN parameters supported for RIC Control Message IE are given in Clause 8.4.11. This CONTROL style uses E2SM-RC Control Message Format 1 IE (9.2.1.7.1).

#### 7.6.12.4 CONTROL Service RIC Call Process ID IE contents
This CONTROL Service RIC Call Process ID IE is currently not supported for this CONTROL service style.

#### 7.6.12.5 CONTROL Service RIC Control Outcome IE contents
This CONTROL Service RIC Control Outcome IE is currently not supported for this CONTROL service style.

## 7.7 Supported RIC POLICY Services

### 7.7.1 POLICY Service style list
RIC Style Type Style Name Style Description Radio Bearer Policy Used to define a policy for modifying the behaviour of Radio Bearer Control (RBC) of call processes for a specific RAN UE Group based on cell, slice, UE list and/or QoS Radio resource allocation Used to define a policy for modifying the behaviour of Radio Policy Resource Allocation control of call processes for a specific RAN UE Group based on cell, slice, UE list and/or QoS Connected mode mobility Used to define a policy for modifying the behaviour of connected Policy mode mobility procedure (Handover or Conditional Handover), optionally with Dual Active Protocol Stack (DAPS), call processes for a specific RAN UE Group based on cell, slice, UE list and/or QoS Radio access Policy Used to define a policy for modifying the behaviour of radio access control processes Dual connectivity (DC) Policy Used to define a policy for modifying the behaviour of dual connectivity (DC) call processes for a specific RAN UE Group based on cell, slice, UE list and/or QoS Carrier Aggregation (CA) Used to define a policy for modifying the behaviour of carrier Policy aggregation (CA) call processes for a specific RAN UE Group based on cell, slice, UE list and/or QoS Idle mode mobility Policy Used to define a policy for modifying the behaviour of idle mode configuration call processes for a specific RAN UE Group based on cell, slice and/or UE list. Measurement Reporting Used to define a policy for configuration of measurement objects Configuration Policy and reporting objects Beamforming Configuration Used to define a policy for beamforming configuration for a Policy specific UE Each of the POLICY Service Styles 1-8 listed above are supported using the following common features:
- Event Trigger: POLICY service is initiated by either Event Trigger style 1: Message Event or Event Trigger style 2:
Call process breakpoint.
- Action ID: The index ID for the individual action under a given POLICY Service style.
- Action Name: Indicates the functionality of the E2 node which is controlled by Near-RT RIC
- Action Description: Describes the action and functionality of the receiving E2 Node.
- Associated RAN parameters: Identifies the RAN parameters to be controlled by Near-RT RIC pertaining to the given
Policy action, used to define Policy Condition and RAN Imperative Policy. All POLICY Service styles use E2SM-RC Action Definition Format 2 IE (9.2.1.2.2) which provides the policy conditions and corresponding Policy Action. All of these factors are defined as a sequence of RAN Parameters assigned according to a given Policy Style and Policy Action where:
- Policy Action ID is a Policy specific identifier of a specific Action for a specific Policy style.
- Policy Condition is a Policy specific condition to select a specific Policy Action. Policy Condition is described in terms
of a list of test conditions concerning UE and E2 Node information selection criteria using RAN Parameters defined with a Conditional Criteria Definition. Default RAN behavior is to be applied to any UE when none of the Policy conditions are met.
- Policy Action is encoded in terms of a list of specific RAN Parameters and shall be applied to any UE that meets a
specific Policy Condition. Policy Action may contain optional Policy Decision to indicate acceptance or rejection of a RRM function when the Policy Conditions are met.
- Policy Condition ID is a Policy Condition specific identifier. May be used by E2 Node to identify specific Policy
Condition item in the list of Policy Conditions defined in the E2SM-RC Action Definition Format 2 IE. When present, for the case of Offset based policy, the Policy conditions list in the E2SM-RC Action Definition Format 2 IE shall be assessed in order of the Policy Condition ID IE. The details of the individual POLICY Service Styles and specific Policy Actions are provided in subsequent clauses.

### 7.7.2 POLICY Service Style 1: Radio Bearer Policy

#### 7.7.2.1 POLICY Service Style description
This POLICY Service style provides an Imperative Policy to control execution of a radio bearer control related process. Applications of this service include:
- DRB QoS Modification, to tune DRB level QoS related parameters to meet the QoS optimization targets.
- QoS Flow mapping, to adjust the mapping relationship between QoS flows and DRBs.
- Logical channel configuration
- Radio Bearer Admission, to guide DRB admission control algorithms for admission and/or rejection of DRB requests
- DRB termination
- DRB Split bearer
- PDCP duplication control

#### 7.7.2.2 POLICY Service RIC Action Definition IE contents
This POLICY Service style uses E2SM-RC Action Definition Format 2 IE (9.2.1.2.2) using the approach described in Clause 7.7.1. The supported Policy Actions for this Policy style are as follows: Policy Policy Action Policy Action Description Associated Action Name RAN ID Parameters Policy for DRB To setup a policy for the configuration of DRB QoS profile 8.5.2.1 QoS Configuration Policy for QoS To setup a policy for the multiplexing of QoS flows to a DRB 8.5.2.2 flow mapping (addition, modification, deletion configuration Policy for Logical To setup a policy for the LCID configuration of a DRB 8.5.2.3 channel (re-) configuration Policy for Radio To setup a policy for radio admission control of a UE 8.5.2.4 admission control Policy for DRB To setup a policy for change in the bearer termination point 8.5.2.5 termination control Policy for DRB To setup a policy for controlling the split ratio of a DRB across its 8.5.2.6 split ratio control RLC entities Policy for PDCP To setup a policy for controlling the activation or de-activation of 8.5.2.7 Duplication PDCP duplication for a DRB and control/configure the number of legs control or RLC entities for the DRB

### 7.7.3 POLICY Service Style 2: Radio Resource Allocation Policy

#### 7.7.3.1 POLICY Service Style description
This POLICY Service style provides an Imperative Policy to control execution of a radio resource allocation control related process. Applications of this service include:
- Discontinuous Reception (DRX) control
- Scheduling request (SR) control
- Semi-Persistent Scheduling (SPS) control
- Configured grant
- Channel Quality Indicator (CQI) table
- Slice level PRB quota

#### 7.7.3.2 POLICY Service RIC Action Definition IE contents
This POLICY Service style uses E2SM-RC Action Definition Format 2 IE (9.2.1.2.2) using the approach described in Clause 7.7.1. The supported Policy Actions for this Policy style are as follows: Policy Policy Action Policy Action description Associated Action Name RAN ID Parameters Policy for To setup a policy for the configuration of DRX parameters 8.5.3.1 DRX parameter configuration Policy for SR To setup a policy for the configuration of SR periodicity parameters 8.5.3.2 periodicity configuration Policy for SPS To setup a policy for the configuration of SPS parameters 8.5.3.3 parameters configuration Policy for To setup a policy for the configuration of uplink grants to the UE 8.5.3.4 Configured grant control Policy for CQI To setup a policy for the configuration of CQI table. 8.5.3.5 table configuration Policy for To setup a policy for the configuration of slice-level PRB quota 8.5.3.6 Slice level PRB quota

### 7.7.4 POLICY Service Style 3: Connected Mode Mobility Policy

#### 7.7.4.1 POLICY Service Style description
This POLICY Service style provides an Imperative Policy to control execution of a connected mode mobility control related process. Applications of this service, for both serving and target RAN nodes, include:
- Handover (HO) or Conditional handover (CHO) mode selection
- Measurement configuration for handover candidate cell detection (intra-frequency, inter-frequency, inter-RAT)
- Handover decision and target cell selection
- Dual Active Protocol Stack (DAPS) usage

#### 7.7.4.2 POLICY Service RIC Action Definition IE contents
This POLICY Service style uses E2SM-RC Action Definition Format 2 IE (9.2.1.2.2) using the approach described in Clause 7.7.1. The supported Policy Actions for this Policy style are as follows: Policy Policy Action Policy Action description Associated RAN Action Name parameters ID Policy for To setup a policy for the handover of the primary cell and 8.5.4.1 Handover subsequent secondary cell reselection Control Policy for To setup a policy for the conditional handover involving target 8.5.4.2 Conditional primary cells Handover Control Policy for DAPS To setup a policy for the DAPS handover of a UE involving 8.5.4.3 (Dual Active source and target cells. Protocol Stack) Handover Control

### 7.7.5 POLICY Service Style 4: Radio Access Policy

#### 7.7.5.1 POLICY Service Style description
This POLICY Service style provides an Imperative Policy to control execution of a radio access control related process. Applications of this service include:
- RACH back-off
- RRC connection admission
- RRC connection release
- Access barring
- UE Admission

#### 7.7.5.2 POLICY Service RIC Action Definition IE contents
This POLICY Service style uses E2SM-RC Action Definition Format 2 IE (9.2.1.2.2) using the approach described in Clause 7.7.1. The supported Policy Actions for this Policy style are as follows: Policy Policy Action Policy Action Description Associated RAN Action Name Parameters ID Policy for UE To setup a policy for controlling UE admission. 8.5.5.1 Admission Control Policy for To setup a policy for controlling RACH backoff parameters 8.5.5.2 RACH backoff control Policy for To setup a policy for controlling access barring configuration 8.5.5.3 Access barring parameters control Policy for RRC To setup a policy for controlling the release of RRC 8.5.5.4 Connection connection of the UE Release control Policy for RRC To setup a policy for controlling the rejection of RRC 8.5.5.5 Connection connection request of the UE Reject control

### 7.7.6 POLICY Service Style 5: Dual Connectivity (DC) Policy

#### 7.7.6.1 POLICY Service Style description
This POLICY Service style provides an Imperative Policy to control execution of a dual connectivity control related process. Applications of this service, for both Master and Secondary nodes, include:
- DC (EN-DC, MR-DC or NR-NR DC) mode selection
- Measurement configuration for candidate secondary cell detection
- DC initiation decision (M-NG-RAN or MeNB role)
- DC change decision (M-NG-RAN or MeNB role)
- DC addition request acceptance (S-NG-RAN or SgNB role)
- Target secondary cell selection
- DC release decision
- Change of bearer termination point (MN or SN) and/or bearer types

#### 7.7.6.2 POLICY Service RIC Action Definition IE contents
This POLICY Service style uses E2SM-RC Action Definition Format 2 IE (9.2.1.2.2) using the approach described in Clause 7.7.1. The supported Policy Actions for this Policy style are as follows: Policy Policy Action Policy Action Description Associated Action Name RAN ID parameters Policy for DC To setup a policy for controlling secondary node addition for dual 8.5.6.1 Secondary connectivity Node Addition Control Policy for DC To setup a policy for controlling modification and release of secondary 8.5.6.2 Secondary node for DC Node Modification and release Control Policy for DC To setup a policy for controlling PSCell change of a UE within a 8.5.6.3 PSCell Change secondary node or to another secondary node control Policy for DC To setup a policy for controlling the change of the secondary node of a 8.5.6.4 Secondary UE for DC Node Change Control

### 7.7.7 POLICY Service Style 6: Carrier Aggregation (CA) Policy

#### 7.7.7.1 POLICY Service Style description
This POLICY Service style provides an Imperative Policy to control execution of a carrier aggregation control related process. Applications of this service include:
- Measurement configuration for candidate secondary cell detection
- CA initiation decision
- Target secondary cell selection
- CA release decision

#### 7.7.7.2 POLICY Service RIC Action Definition IE contents
This POLICY Service style uses E2SM-RC Action Definition Format 2 IE (9.2.1.2.2) using the approach described in Clause 7.7.1. The supported Policy Actions for this Policy style are as follows: Policy Policy Action Policy Action Description Associated Action Name RAN ID parameters Policy for CA To setup a policy for controlling secondary cell addition for a UE 8.5.7.1 Secondary Cell Addition Control Policy for CA To setup a policy for controlling the modification and release of 8.5.7.2 Secondary secondary cells for a UE Cell Modification and Release Control

### 7.7.8 POLICY Service Style 7: Idle Mode Mobility Policy

#### 7.7.8.1 POLICY Service Style description
This POLICY Service style provides an Imperative Policy to control execution of a idle mode mobility control related process. Applications of this service include:
- Cell re-selection criteria (intra-frequency, inter-frequency, inter-RAT)
- Inactivity timer

#### 7.7.8.2 POLICY Service RIC Action Definition IE contents
This POLICY Service style uses E2SM-RC Action Definition Format 2 IE (9.2.1.2.2) using the approach described in Clause 7.7.1. The supported Policy Actions for this Policy style are as follows: Policy Policy Action Name Policy Action Description Associated Action RAN ID parameters Policy for Cell re- To setup a policy for assigning cell re-selection priorities for a 8.5.8.1 selection priority UE during idle mode (RRC_IDLE) control

### 7.7.9 POLICY Service Style 8: Measurement Reporting Configuration Policy

#### 7.7.9.1 POLICY Service Style description
This POLICY Service style provides an imperative policy to add, modify or delete measurement report configuration for the UE to the network. Applications of this service include:
- Policy to add configuration of measurement objects, reporting objects, measurement gaps, etc.
- Policy to modify configuration of measurement objects, reporting objects, measurement gaps, etc.
- Policy to delete configuration of measurement objects, reporting objects, measurement gaps, etc.

#### 7.7.9.2 POLICY Service RIC Action Definition IE contents
This POLICY Service style uses E2SM-RC Action Definition Format 2 IE (9.2.1.2.2) using the approach described in Clause 7.7.1. The supported Policy Actions for this Policy style are as follows: Policy Policy Action Policy Action description Associated RAN Action Name Parameters ID Policy for MR To setup a policy for adding configuration of measurement objects, 8.5.9.1 Configuration reporting objects, measurement gaps addition Policy for MR To setup a policy for modifying configuration of measurement 8.5.9.2 Configuration objects, reporting objects, measurement gaps modification Delete MR To setup a policy for deleting configuration of measurement objects, 8.5.9.3 Configuration reporting objects, measurement gaps

### 7.7.10 POLICY Service Style 9: Beamforming Configuration Policy

#### 7.7.10.1 POLICY Service Style description
This POLICY Service style provides an imperative policy to add, modify or delete beamforming configuration for a UE. Applications of this service include:
- Policy to configure, reconfigure, or release Non-GoB beamforming mode [32] for a UE
- Policy to configure, reconfigure, or release GoB beamforming configuration [32] for a UE

#### 7.7.10.2 POLICY Service RIC Action Definition IE contents
This POLICY Service style uses E2SM-RC Action Definition Format 2 IE (9.2.1.2.2) using the approach described in Clause 7.7.1. The supported Policy Actions for this Policy style are as follows: Policy Policy Action Name Policy Action Description Associated Action RAN ID parameters Policy for Non-GoB To setup a policy to configure, reconfigure, or release Non-GoB 8.5.10.1 BF Mode beamforming mode [32] for a UE. This policy action of Configuration (re)configuring or releasing Non-GoB BF mode index is applied only when the corresponding policy condition (if configured) is triggered. The (re)configured Non-GoB BF mode index is the best inferred Non-GoB BF mode index by AI/ML to be used for the UE by the scheduler in the E2 Node, for which could be configured separately for the case of Single User- and/or Multi- user MIMO [32]. Policy for GoB BF To setup a policy to configure, reconfigure, or release GoB 8.5.10.2 Configuration beamforming configuration (e.g., PMIs, P2-beam indexes etc.) for a UE [32]. This policy action of (re)configuring or releasing GoB BF configuration is applied only when the corresponding policy condition (if configured) is triggered. The (re)configured GoB BF configuration is the best inferred GoB BF configuration by AI/ML to be used for the UE by the scheduler in the E2 Node [32].

## 7.8 Supported RIC QUERY Services

### 7.8.1 QUERY Service style list
RIC Style Type Style Name Style Description E2 Node Information Query Used to request and respond on information related to E2 Node UE Information Query Used to request and respond on information related to UE

### 7.8.2 QUERY Service Style 1: E2 Node Information Query

#### 7.8.2.1 QUERY Service Style description
This QUERY Service style is used to request any data related to E2 Node by Near-RT RIC. E2 Node shall use this service style to respond to the requested information from Near-RT RIC. The data related to the following information, can be requested and responded using this service.
- Cell Configuration related information
- Neighbour Relation related information

#### 7.8.2.2 QUERY Service RIC Query Header IE contents
This QUERY Service style uses the E2SM-RC Query Header Format 1 IE (9.2.1.9.1).

#### 7.8.2.3 QUERY Service RIC Query Definition IE contents
The RIC Query Definition for this service style indicates the information type requested by Near-RT RIC. The QUERY Service style uses the E2SM-RC Query Definition Format 1 IE (9.2.1.10.1). The supported Parameters for this format are provided in Clause 8.6.1.

#### 7.8.2.4 QUERY Service RIC Query Outcome IE contents
This QUERY Service style uses the E2SM-RC Query Outcome Format 1 IE (9.2.1.11.1). The mapping of RAN parameters configured in the RIC Query Definition IE to the reported IEs in the E2SM-RC Query Outcome Format 1 IE is provided in the semantics description of the IEs.

### 7.8.3 QUERY Service Style 2: UE Information Query

#### 7.8.3.1 QUERY Service Style description
This QUERY Service style is used to request any data related to UE Information by Near-RT RIC. E2 Node shall use this service style to respond to the requested information from Near-RT RIC. The data related to the following information, but not limited to, can be requested and responded using this service.
- UE Context related information
The reporting may be per UE based depending on the information requested.

#### 7.8.3.2 QUERY Service RIC Query Header IE contents
This QUERY Service style uses the E2SM-RC Query Header Format 1 IE (9.2.1.9.1).

#### 7.8.3.3 QUERY Service RIC Query Definition IE contents
The RIC Query Definition for this service style indicates the information type requested by Near-RT RIC. The QUERY Service style uses the E2SM-RC Query Definition Format 1 IE (9.2.1.10.1). The supported Parameters for this format are provided in Clause 8.6.2.

#### 7.8.3.4 QUERY Service RIC Query Outcome IE contents
This QUERY Service style uses the E2SM-RC Query Outcome Format 2 IE (9.2.1.11.2). The mapping of RAN parameters configured in the RIC Query Definition IE to the reported IEs in the E2SM-RC Query Outcome Format 2 IE is provided in the semantics description of the IEs.

## 7.9 Supported RIC Service Styles and E2SM IE Formats
specification. RIC Event RIC Event Trigger Trigger Style Definition Format Style 1 1 Style 2 2 Style 3 3 Style 4 4 RIC Action Indication Indication Call Control Control Control Service Definition Header Message Process ID Header Message Outcome Style Format Format Format Format Format Format Format REPORT Style 1 1 1 1 Style 2 1 1 2 Style 3 1 1 3 Style 4 1 1 2 INSERT Style 1 3 2 5 1 Style 2 3 2 5 1 Style 3 3 2 5 1 Style 4 3 2 5 1 Style 5 3 2 5 1 Style 6 3 2 5 1 Style 7 3 2 5 1 Style 255 4 3 6 1 CONTROL Style 1 1 1, 3 1, 3 1 Style 2 1 1 1 1 Style 3 1 1 1 1 Style 4 1 1 1 1 Style 5 1 1 1 1 Style 6 1 1 1 1 Style 7 1 1 1 1 Style 8 1, 4 1, 2, 3 3 Style 9 1 1 3 Style 10 1 1 Style 255 1 2 2 2 POLICY Style 1 2 Style 2 2 Style 3 2 Style 4 2 Style 5 2 Style 6 2 Style 7 2 Style 8 2 Style 9 2 RIC Service Query Query Query Style Header Definition Outcome Format Format Format QUERY Style 1 1 1 1 Style 2 1 1 2

# 8 RAN Parameter assignments

## 8.0 Approach
The RAN parameters associated with each RIC service described in Clause 7 are listed here in Clause 8. Each RAN parameter belongs to one of the following value types:
- ELEMENT: a singleton variable, which does not have any other associated RAN parameters.
- STRUCTURE: a sequence of RAN parameters, each of which can be either an ELEMENT or a STRUCTURE or a
LIST
- LIST: a list of STRUCTURES, where each STRUCTURE is as defined above. The sequence of RAN parameters is the
same across all the STRUCTURES within the list. The corresponding 3GPP standard definitions of these RAN parameters (if available) are referenced in the tables below under the “RAN Parameter Definition” column. These RAN parameters having 3GPP standard definitions are not freshly defined or redefined here. Note that only those RAN parameters identified as ELEMENT are subject to test conditions by the RIC in the “Event Trigger Definition”. Any RAN parameter within a STRUCTURE or LIST shall not be referenced individually. Hierarchy of a LIST or a STRUCTURE shall be traversed to access any RAN parameter within the LIST or STRUCTURE Note that a RAN parameter may be associated with as a key where its corresponding Key Flag is set to “TRUE”. These RAN parameters serve as a reference to other RAN parameters within a structure that may be a part of LIST to enable the E2 Node interpret the scope of RAN parameters that are controlled by Near-RT RIC. If the “key flag” is specified in the RIC Event Trigger Definition IE, then the RAN parameters corresponding to “that specific itemized structure” in the list indexed by the “key flag” are subject to test condition, but if the “key flag” is not mentioned in the RIC Event Trigger Definition IE, then the RAN parameters corresponding to “any itemized structure” within the list are subject to test condition. For e.g., The ‘QFI’ can be considered a ‘key parameter’ to identify a QoS flow among the list of flows in a UE-specific PDU session. If the QFI parameter is NOT mentioned and the RIC subscribes to an event pertaining to 5QI 8, then “any QoS flow” in the list of flows of a PDU session for the UE that matches the condition of 5QI being equal to 8 would be covered by this event trigger definition. On the other hand, if the QFI parameter is mentioned in the RIC Event Trigger Definition IE, then only that specific QoS flow pertaining to the indicated QFI within the list is covered.

## 8.1 RAN parameters for Event Trigger
The RAN Parameters pertaining to “Event Trigger” that are used across multiple service styles are listed here. All RAN Parameters defined in clause 8.1 may also be used to define Policy Condition, see also clause 8.5.

### 8.1.1 Common RAN Parameters
This clause contains the common set of RAN parameters that can be accessed via RAN parameters defined in each service style across multiple services.

#### 8.1.1.1 NR Cell
The following RAN Parameters are associated with the NR cell. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key Flag RAN Semantics Parameter Parameter Parameter Description ID Value Type Definition

# 10001 NR CGI ELEMENT FALSE NR CGI IE in TS 38.423
[15] Clause 9.2.2.7

# 10002 NR PCI ELEMENT FALSE NR PCI IE in TS 38.473
[19] Clause 9.3.1.10

# 10003 5GS TAC ELEMENT FALSE 5GS TAC IE
in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.29

# 10004 CHOICE NR-Mode-Info STRUCTURE NR-Mode-Info
IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.10

# 10005 >FDD STRUCTURE FDD IE in TS
38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.10

# 10006 >>FDD Info STRUCTURE FDD Info IE in TS 38.473 [19]
Clause 9.3.1.10

# 10007 >>>UL FreqInfo STRUCTURE UL FreqInfo IE
in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.10

# 10008 >>>>NR ARFCN ELEMENT FALSE NR ARFCN
IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.17

# 10009 >>>>Frequency Band List LIST Frequency
Band List IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.17

# 10010 >>>>>Frequency Band STRUCTURE Frequency
item Band Item IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.17

# 10011 >>>>>>NR Frequency ELEMENT FALSE NR
band Frequency Band IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.17

# 10012 >>>DL FreqInfo STRUCTURE DL FreqInfo IE
in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.10

# 10013 >>>>NR ARFCN ELEMENT FALSE NR ARFCN
IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.17

# 10014 >>>>Frequency Band List LIST Frequency
Band List IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.17

# 10015 >>>>>Frequency Band STRUCTURE Frequency
item Band Item IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.17

# 10016 >>>>>>NR Frequency ELEMENT FALSE NR
band Frequency Band IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.17

# 10017 >>>UL Transmission Bandwidth STRUCTURE Transmission
Bandwidth IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.15

# 10018 >>>>NR SCS ELEMENT FALSE NR SCS IE in TS 38.473
[19] Clause 9.3.1.15

# 10019 >>>>NRB ELEMENT FALSE NRB IE in TS
38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.15

# 10020 >>>DL Transmission Bandwidth STRUCTURE Transmission
Bandwidth IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.15

# 10021 >>>>NR SCS ELEMENT FALSE NR SCS IE in TS 38.473
[19] Clause 9.3.1.15

# 10022 >>>>NRB ELEMENT FALSE NRB IE in TS
38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.15

# 10023 >>>UL Carrier List LIST UL Carrier List
IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.10

# 10024 >>>>NR Carrier Item STRUCTURE NR Carrier
Item IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.137

# 10025 >>>>>NR SCS ELEMENT FALSE NR SCS IE in TS 38.473
[19] Clause 9.3.1.15

# 10026 >>>>>Offset to Carrier ELEMENT FALSE Offset to Carrier IE in
TS 38.473 [19] Sec 137

# 10027 >>>>>Carrier Bandwidth ELEMENT FALSE Carrier
Bandwidth IE

# 10028 >>>DL Carrier List LIST DL Carrier List
IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.10

# 10029 >>>>NR Carrier Item STRUCTURE NR Carrier
Item IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.137

# 10030 >>>>>NR SCS ELEMENT FALSE NR SCS IE in TS 38.473
[19] Clause 9.3.1.15

# 10031 >>>>>Offset to Carrier ELEMENT FALSE Offset to Carrier IE in
TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.137

# 10032 >>>>>Carrier Bandwidth ELEMENT FALSE Carrier
Bandwidth IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.137

# 10033 >TDD STRUCTURE TDD IE in TS
38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.10

# 10034 >>TDD Info STRUCTURE TDD Info IE in TS 38.473 [19]
Clause 9.3.1.10

# 10035 >>>NR FreqInfo STRUCTURE

# 10036 >>>>NR ARFCN ELEMENT FALSE NR ARFCN
IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.17

# 10037 >>>>Frequency Band List LIST Frequency
Band List IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.17

# 10038 >>>>>Frequency Band STRUCTURE Frequency
item Band Item IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.17

# 10039 >>>>>>NR Frequency ELEMENT FALSE NR
band Frequency Band IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.17

# 10040 >>>Transmission Bandwidth STRUCTURE Transmission
Bandwidth IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.15

# 10041 >>>>NR SCS ELEMENT FALSE NR SCS IE in TS 38.473
[19] Clause 9.3.1.15

# 10042 >>>>NRB ELEMENT FALSE NRB IE in TS
38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.15

# 10043 >>>Carrier List LIST Transmission
Bandwidth IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.15

# 10044 >>>>NR Carrier Item STRUCTURE NR SCS IE in TS 38.473
[19] Clause 9.3.1.15

# 10045 >>>>>NR SCS ELEMENT FALSE NR SCS IE in TS 38.473
[19] Clause 9.3.1.15

# 10046 >>>>>Offset to Carrier ELEMENT FALSE Offset to Carrier IE in
TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.137

# 10047 >>>>>Carrier Bandwidth ELEMENT FALSE Carrier
Bandwidth IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.137

# 10048 >>>Intended TDD DL-UL STRUCTURE Intended TDD
Configuration DL-UL Configuration IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.89

# 10049 >>>>NR SCS ELEMENT FALSE NR SCS IE in TS 38.473
[19] Clause 9.3.1.89

# 10050 >>>>NR Cyclic Prefix ELEMENT FALSE NR Cyclic
Prefix IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.89

# 10051 >>>>NR DL-UL Transmission ELEMENT FALSE NR DL-UL
Periodicity Transmission Periodicity IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.89

# 10052 >>>>Slot Configuration List LIST Slot
Configuration List IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.89

# 10053 >>>>>Slot Configuration STRUCTURE Slot
Item Configuration Item IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.89

# 10054 >>>>>>Slot Index ELEMENT TRUE Slot Index IE
in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.89

# 10055 >>>>>>CHOICE STRUCTURE Symbol
Symbol Allocation in Allocation in Slot Slot IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.89

# 10056 >>>>>>>All DL ELEMENT FALSE All DL IE in TS 38.473
[19] Clause 9.3.1.89

# 10057 >>>>>>>All UL ELEMENT FALSE All UL IE in TS 38.473
[19] Clause 9.3.1.89

# 10058 >>>>>>>Both DL STRUCTURE Both DL and and UL UL IE in TS
38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.89

# 10059 >>>>>>>>Num ELEMENT FALSE Number of DL
ber of DL symbols IE in symbols TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.89

# 10060 >>>>>>>>Num ELEMENT FALSE Number of UL
ber of UL symbols IE in symbols TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.89

# 10061 Count of FDD UL Frequency band list ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER
(0..63)

# 10062 Count of FDD DL Frequency band list ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER
(0..63)

# 10063 Count of FDD UL Carrier list ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER
(0..63)

# 10064 Count of FDD DL Carrier list ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER
(0..63)

# 10065 Count of TDD Frequency band list ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER
(0..63)

# 10066 Count of TDD Carrier list ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER
(0..63)

# 10067 Count of TDD DL-UL Slot Configuration ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER
list (0..63)

# 10101 Reported NR RRC Measurements STRUCTURE measResult IE
in TS 38.331 [22]

# 10102 >Cell Results STRUCTURE cellResults IE
in TS 38.331 [22]

# 10103 >>SSB Results STRUCTURE 8.1.1.3 resultsSSB- Cell IE in TS
38.331 [22]

# 10106 >>CSI-RS Results STRUCTURE 8.1.1.3 resultsCSI-RS- Cell IE in TS
38.331 [22]

# 10110 PM Measurements STRUCTURE Cell
Measurement Result IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.1.3.21

# 10111 >Radio Resource Status STRUCTURE Radio
Resource Status IE in TS 38.473 [19]

# 10112 >>SSB Area Radio Resource Status LIST SSB Area
List Radio Resource Status List IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.129

# 10113 >>>SSB Area Radio Resource STRUCTURE SSB Area
Status Item Radio Resource Status Item IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.129

# 10114 >>>>SSB Index ELEMENT TRUE SSB Index IE
in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.129

# 10115 >>>>SSB Area DL GBR PRB ELEMENT FALSE SSB Area DL
Usage GBR PRB Usage IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.129

# 10116 >>>>SSB Area UL GBR PRB ELEMENT FALSE SSB Area UL
Usage GBR PRB Usage IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.129

# 10117 >>>>SSB Area DL non-GBR ELEMENT FALSE SSB Area DL
PRB Usage non-GBR PRB Usage IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.129

# 10118 >>>>SSB Area UL non-GBR ELEMENT FALSE SSB Area UL
PRB Usage non-GBR PRB Usage IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.129

# 10119 >>>>SSB Area DL Total PRB ELEMENT FALSE SSB Area DL
Usage Total PRB Usage IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.129

# 10120 >>>>SSB Area UL Total PRB ELEMENT FALSE SSB Area UL
Usage Total PRB Usage IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.129

# 10121 >>>>DL scheduling PDCCH ELEMENT FALSE DL
CCE Usage Scheduling PDCCH CCE IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.129

# 10122 >>>>UL scheduling PDCCH ELEMENT FALSE UL
CCE Usage Scheduling PDCCH CCE IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.129

# 10123 >Available DL PRBs in the cell ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER DL Total
available PRB IE in TS 28.552 [28] Sec 5.1.1.2.6

# 10124 >Available UL PRBs in the cell ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER UL Total
available PRB IE in TS 28.552 [28] Sec 5.1.1.2.8

# 10125 >Number of active DL UEs in the cell ELEMENT FALSE Number of Active UEs IE
in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.135

# 10126 >Number of active UL UEs in the cell ELEMENT FALSE Number of Active UEs IE
in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.135

# 10127 >Composite Available Capacity Group STRUCTURE Composite
Available Capacity Group IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.130

# 10128 >>Composite Available Capacity STRUCTURE Composite
Downlink Available Capacity IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.131

# 10129 >>>Cell Capacity Class Value ELEMENT FALSE Cell Capacity
Class Value IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.132

# 10130 >>>Capacity Value ELEMENT FALSE Capacity
Value IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.133

# 10131 >>>SSB Area Capacity Value List LIST SSB Area
Capacity Value List IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.133

# 10132 >>>>SSB Area Capacity STRUCTURE SSB Area
Value Item Capacity Value Item IE in TS 38.473 [19] Sec 9.3.1.133

# 10133 >>>>>SSB Index ELEMENT TRUE SSB Index IE
in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.133

# 10134 >>>>>SSB Area Capacity ELEMENT FALSE SSB Area
Value Capacity Value IE in TS 38.473 [19] Sec 9.3.1.133

# 10141 >>Composite Available Capacity STRUCTURE Composite
Uplink Available Capacity IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.131

# 10142 >>>Cell Capacity Class Value ELEMENT FALSE Cell Capacity
Class Value IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.132

# 10143 >>>Capacity Value ELEMENT FALSE Capacity
Value IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.133

# 10144 >>>SSB Area Capacity Value List LIST SSB Area
Capacity Value List IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.133

# 10145 >>>>SSB Area Capacity STRUCTURE SSB Area
Value Item Capacity Value Item IE in TS 38.473 [19] Sec 9.3.1.133

# 10146 >>>>>SSB Index ELEMENT TRUE SSB Index IE
in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.133

# 10147 >>>>>SSB Area Capacity ELEMENT FALSE SSB Area
Value Capacity Value IE in TS 38.473 [19] Sec 9.3.1.133

# 10151 >Slice Available Capacity List LIST Slice Available
Capacity List IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.134

# 10152 >>Slice Available Capacity Item STRUCTURE Slice Available
Capacity Item IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.134

# 10153 >>>PLMN Identity ELEMENT FALSE PLMN Identity
IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.14

# 10154 >>>S-NSSAI Available Capacity LIST S-NSSAI
List Available Capacity List IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.134

# 10155 >>>>S-NSSAI Available STRUCTURE S-NSSAI
Capacity Item Available Capacity Item IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.134

# 10156 >>>>>S-NSSAI STRUCTURE FALSE S-NSSAI IE in TS 38.473 [19]
Clause 9.3.1.38

# 10160 >>>>>>SST ELEMENT FALSE SST IE in TS
38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.38

# 10161 >>>>>>SD ELEMENT FALSE SD IE in TS
38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.38

# 10157 >>>>>Slice Available ELEMENT FALSE Slice
Capacity Value Downlink Available Capacity Value Downlink IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.134

# 10158 >>>>>Slice Available ELEMENT FALSE Slice
Capacity Value Uplink Available Capacity Value Uplink IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.134

# 10201 Cell-specific offset ELEMENT FALSE Ocp (or Ocn)
IE as defined in TS 38.331 [22] INTEGER

# 10202 Cell Measurement object specific offset ELEMENT FALSE Ofp (or Ofn)
IE as defined in TS 38.331 [22] INTEGER

#### 8.1.1.2 E-UTRA Cell
The following RAN Parameters are associated with the E-UTRA cell. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key Flag RAN Semantics Parameter Parameter Parameter Description ID Value Type Definition

# 12001 E-UTRA CGI ELEMENT FALSE E-UTRA CGI
IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.2.8

# 12002 PCI ELEMENT FALSE PCI IE in TS
36.423 [15] within Clause 9.2.8, INTEGER(0.. 503,...)

# 12003 TAC ELEMENT FALSE TAC IE in TS
36.423 [15] within Clause 9.2.8, OCTET STRING(2)

# 12004 CHOICE EUTRA-Mode-Info STRUCTURE EUTRA- Mode-Info
IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.8

# 12005 >FDD STRUCTURE FDD IE in TS 36.423
[17] Clause 9.2.8

# 12006 >>FDD Info STRUCTURE FDD Info IE
in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.8

# 12007 >>>UL EARFCN STRUCTURE UL
EARFCN IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.8

# 12008 >>>>EARFCN ELEMENT FALSE EARFCN IE
in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.26

# 12009 >>>DL EARFCN ELEMENT FALSE DL
EARFCN IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.8

# 12010 >>>>EARFCN STRUCTURE EARFCN IE
in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.26

# 12011 >>>UL Transmission Bandwidth STRUCTURE UL
Transmissio n Bandwidth IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.8

# 12012 >>>>Transmission Bandwidth ELEMENT FALSE Transmission
Bandwidth IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.27

# 12013 >>>DL Transmission Bandwidth STRUCTURE DL
Transmissio n Bandwidth IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.8

# 12014 >>>>Transmission Bandwidth ELEMENT FALSE Transmission
Bandwidth IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.27

# 12015 >TDD STRUCTURE TDD IE in TS 36.423
[17] Clause 9.2.8

# 12016 >>TDD Info STRUCTURE TDD Info IE
in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.8

# 12017 >>>EARFCN ELEMENT FALSE EARFCN IE
in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.26

# 12018 >>>Transmission Bandwidth ELEMENT FALSE Transmission
Bandwidth IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.27

# 12019 >>>Subframe assignment ELEMENT FALSE Subframe
Assignment IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.8

# 12020 >>>Special Subframe Info ELEMENT FALSE Special
Subframe Info IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.8

# 12021 >>>>Special Subframe Patterns ELEMENT FALSE Special
Subframe Patterns IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.8

# 12022 >>>>Cyclic Prefix DL ELEMENT FALSE Cyclic Prefix
DL IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.8

# 12023 >>>>Cyclic Prefix UL ELEMENT FALSE Cyclic Prefix
UL IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.8

# 12024 Reported LTE RRC Measurements STRUCTURE 8.1.1.3 MeasResult
s IE in TS 36.331 [23]

# 12025 PM Measurements STRUCTURE CellMeasure
mentResultIt em IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.1.2.14

# 12026 >Radio Resource Status STRUCTURE Radio
Resource Status IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.37

# 12027 >>DL GBR PRB Usage ELEMENT FALSE DL GBR PRB
Usage IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.37

# 12028 >>UL GBR PRB Usage ELEMENT FALSE UL GBR PRB
Usage IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.37

# 12029 >>DL non-GBR PRB Usage ELEMENT FALSE DL non-GBR
PRB Usage IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.37

# 12030 >>UL non-GBR PRB usage ELEMENT FALSE UL non-GBR
PRB Usage IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.37

# 12031 >>DL Total PRB Usage ELEMENT FALSE DL Total PRB
Usage IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.37

# 12032 >>UL Total PRB Usage ELEMENT FALSE UL Total PRB
Usage IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.37

# 12033 >>DL scheduling PDCCH CCE Usage ELEMENT FALSE DL
scheduling PDCCH CCE Usage IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.37

# 12034 >>UL scheduling PDCCH CCE Usage ELEMENT FALSE UL
scheduling PDCCH CCE Usage IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.37

# 12051 >Composite Available Capacity Group STRUCTURE Composite
Available Capacity Group IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.44

# 12052 >>Composite Available Capacity STRUCTURE Composite
Downlink Available Capacity Downlink IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.45

# 12053 >>>Cell capacity Class Value ELEMENT FALSE Cell Capacity
Class Value IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.46

# 12054 >>>Capacity Value ELEMENT FALSE Capacity
Value IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.47

# 12055 >>Composite Available Capacity Uplink STRUCTURE Composite
Available Capacity Uplink IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.45

# 12056 >>>Cell capacity Class Value ELEMENT FALSE Cell Capacity
Class Value IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.46

# 12057 >>>Capacity Value ELEMENT FALSE Capacity
Value IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.47

# 12058 >Available DL PRBs in the cell ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER

# 12059 >Available UL PRBs in the cell ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER

# 12060 >Number of active DL UEs in the cell ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER

# 12061 >Number of active UL UEs in the cell ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER

# 12062 >ABS Status STRUCTURE ABS Status
IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.58

# 12063 >>DL ABS Status ELEMENT FALSE DL ABS
status IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.58

# 12064 >>CHOICE Usable ABS Information STRUCTURE Usable ABS
Information IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.58

# 12065 >>>FDD STRUCTURE FDD IE in TS 36.423
[17] Clause 9.2.58

# 12066 >>>>Usable ABS Pattern Info ELEMENT FALSE Usable ABS
Pattern Info IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.58

# 12067 >>>TDD STRUCTURE TDD IE in TS 36.423
[17] Clause 9.2.58

# 12068 >>>>Usable ABS Pattern Info ELEMENT FALSE Usable ABS
Pattern Info IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.58

# 12075 >CSI Report per CSI Process List LIST CSI Report
per CSI Process IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.79

# 12076 >>CSI Process per CSI Item STRUCTURE CSI Report
per CSI Process Item IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.79

# 12077 >>>CSI Process Configuration ELEMENT FALSE CSI Process
Index Configuration Index IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.79

# 12078 >>>RI ELEMENT FALSE RI IE in TS
36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.79

# 12079 >>>Wideband CQI STRUCTURE Wideband
CQI IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.80

# 12101 >>>>Wideband CQI Codeword ELEMENT FALSE Wideband

# 0 CQI
Codeword 0 IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.80

# 12102 >>>>CHOICE Wideband CQI STRUCTURE Wideband
Codeword 1 CQI Codeword 1 IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.80

# 12103 >>>>>4-bit CQI ELEMENT FALSE 4-bit CQI IE
in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.80

# 12104 >>>>>3-bit spatial differential ELEMENT FALSE 3-bit spatial
CQI differential CQI IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.80

# 12080 >>>Subband Size ELEMENT FALSE Subband
Size IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.79

# 12081 >>>Subband CQI List LIST Subband
CQI List IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.79

# 12082 >>>>Subband CQI Item STRUCTURE Subband
CQI Item IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.79

# 12083 >>>>>Subband CQI Index ELEMENT FALSE Subband
Index IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.79

# 12084 >>>>>Subband CQI STRUCTURE Subband
CQI IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.81

# 12085 >>>>>>CHOICE STRUCTURE Subband
Subband CQI Codeword CQI

# 0 Codeword 0
IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.81

# 12086 >>>>>>>4-bit CQI ELEMENT FALSE 4-bit CQI IE
in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.81

# 12087 >>>>>>>2-bit ELEMENT FALSE 2-bit
subband differential Subband CQI differential CQI IE in 36.423 Clause 9.2.81

# 12088 >>>>>>>2-bit ELEMENT FALSE 2-bit
differential CQI differential CQI IE in 36.423 Clause 9.2.81

# 12089 >>>>>>CHOICE STRUCTURE Subband
Subband CQI Codeword CQI

# 12090 >>>>>>>4-bit CQI ELEMENT FALSE 4-bit CQI IE
in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.81

# 12091 >>>>>>>3-bit spatial ELEMENT FALSE 3-bit spatial
differential CQI differential CQI IE in 36.423 Clause 9.2.81

# 12092 >>>>>>>2-bit ELEMENT FALSE 2-bit
subband differential Subband CQI differential CQI IE in 36.423 Clause 9.2.81

# 12093 >>>>>>>2-bit ELEMENT FALSE 2-bit
differential CQI differential CQI IE in 36.423 Clause 9.2.81

#### 8.1.1.3 RRC Signal Measurements
The following RAN Parameters are associated with RRC measurements. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key Flag RAN Parameter Semantics Parameter Parameter Definition Description ID Value Type

# 12501 RSRP ELEMENT FALSE RSRP-Range IE in TS
38.331 [22]

# 12502 RSRQ ELEMENT FALSE RSRQ-Range IE in TS
38.331 [22]

# 12503 SINR ELEMENT FALSE SINR-Range IE in TS
38.331 [22]

#### 8.1.1.4 L2 MAC State Variables
The following RAN Parameters are associated with UE-specific L2 MAC state variables. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key RAN Parameter Semantics Parameter Parameter Flag Definition Description ID Value Type

# 13001 Buffer Occupancy STRUCTURE Buffer Occupancy
(BO) in number of

# 13002 >LCID ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER (0.. 63) bytes as defined in TS 25.321 [27] clause

# 13003 >BO in Bytes ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER 8.2.2(c). LCID
indicates logical channel ID.

# 13004 Buffer Status Report STRUCTURE MCE Control
Elements as defined

# 13005 >Short BSR ELEMENT FALSE OCTET STRING in TS 38.321 [26]
(SIZE(1)) clause 6.1.3.

# 13006 >Long BSR ELEMENT FALSE OCTET STRING

# 13007 >Short Truncated BSR ELEMENT FALSE OCTET STRING
(SIZE(1))

# 13008 >Long Truncated BSR ELEMENT FALSE OCTET STRING

# 13009 >Pre-emptive BSR ELEMENT FALSE OCTET STRING

# 13010 SCell STRUCTURE
Activation/Deactivation

# 13011 >One Octet ELEMENT FALSE OCTET STRING
(SIZE(1))

# 13012 >Four Octet ELEMENT FALSE OCTET STRING
(SIZE(4))

# 13013 Duplication ELEMENT FALSE OCTET STRING
Activation/Deactivation (SIZE(1))

# 13014 Duplication RLC ELEMENT FALSE OCTET STRING
Activation/Deactivation (SIZE(1))

#### 8.1.1.5 NG-RAN Data Radio Bearer
The following RAN Parameters are associated with the NG-RAN data radio bearer. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key Flag RAN Parameter Semantics Description Parameter Parameter Definition ID Value Type

# 14001 5QI ELEMENT FALSE 5QI IE in TS 37.483 [21]
Clause 9.3.1.27 or TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.28

# 14002 Packet Delay ELEMENT FALSE Packet Delay Budget IE in Budget TS 37.483 [21] Clause
9.3.1.47

# 14003 Packet Error Rate ELEMENT FALSE Packet Error Rate IE in TS
37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.48

# 14004 NG-RAN DRB STRUCTURE NG-RAN Allocation and Allocation and Retention Priority IE in
Retention Priority TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.29

# 14005 >Priority Level ELEMENT FALSE Priority Level IE in TS
37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.29

# 14006 >Pre-emption ELEMENT FALSE Pre-emption Capability IE
Capability in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.29

# 14007 >Pre-emption ELEMENT FALSE Pre-emption Vulnerability
Vulnerability IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.29

# 14008 Priority Level of the ELEMENT FALSE Priority Level IE in TS
mapped QoS flows 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.51

# 14009 QoS parameters for STRUCTURE GBR QoS Flow
GBR flows in NG- Information IE in TS RAN Bearer 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.30

# 14010 >Maximum Flow Bit ELEMENT FALSE Bit Rate IE in TS 37.483
Rate Downlink [21] Clause 9.3.1.30

# 14011 >Guaranteed Flow ELEMENT FALSE Bit Rate IE in TS 37.483
Bit Rate Downlink [21] Clause 9.3.1.30

# 14012 >Maximum Packet ELEMENT FALSE Packet Loss Rate IE in TS
Loss Rate 37.483 [21] Clause Downlink 9.3.1.30

# 14013 >Maximum Flow Bit ELEMENT FALSE Bit Rate IE in TS 37.483
Rate Uplink [21] Clause 9.3.1.30

# 14014 >Guaranteed Flow ELEMENT FALSE Bit Rate IE in TS 37.483
Bit Rate Uplink [21] Clause 9.3.1.30

# 14015 >Maximum Packet ELEMENT FALSE Packet Loss Rate IE in TS
Loss Rate Uplink 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.30

# 14016 QoS Monitoring ELEMENT FALSE QoS Monitoring Request
Enable Request IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.26

# 14017 QoS Monitoring ELEMENT FALSE QoS Monitoring Reporting
Reporting Frequency IE in TS Frequency 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.26

# 14018 QoS Monitoring ELEMENT FALSE QoS Monitoring Disabled
Disabled IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.26

# 14019 Reflective QoS ELEMENT FALSE RDI IE in TS 37.483 [21]
Mapping Clause 9.3.1.26

# 14101 List of cell groups LIST Cell Group To Add IE in to be added TS 37.483 [21] Clause
9.3.3.11

# 14102 >Cell group item STRUCTURE Cell Group Item IE in TS
37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.11

# 14103 >>Cell Group ELEMENT TRUE Cell Group ID IE in TS
ID 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.11

# 14104 >>Cell Group STRUCTURE 8.1.1.7

# 14201 SDAP STRUCTURE SDAP Configuration IE
Configuration in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.39

# 14202 >PDU Session ID ELEMENT TRUE PDU-SessionID IE in TS
38.331 [22] Sec 6

# 14203 >Default DRB ELEMENT FALSE Default DRB IE in TS
37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.39

# 14210 >PDU Session STRUCTURE 8.1.1.16

# 14301 PDCP STRUCTURE PDCP Configuration IE
Configuration in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.38

# 14302 >RLC mode ELEMENT FALSE RLC mode IE in TS
37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.38

# 14303 >PDCP Duplication ELEMENT FALSE PDCP Duplication IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause
9.3.1.38

# 14304 >UL Data Split ELEMENT FALSE UL Data Split Threshold
Threshold IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.43

# 14305 >PDCP Re- ELEMENT FALSE PDCP Re-establishment
establishment IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.38

# 14306 >PDCP Data ELEMENT FALSE PDCP Data Recovery IE
Recovery in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.38

# 14307 >Out-of-Order ELEMENT FALSE Out of Order Delivery IE in Delivery TS 37.483 [21] Clause
9.3.1.38

# 14308 >PDCP Status ELEMENT FALSE PDCP Status Report
Report Indication Indication IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.38

# 14309 >Number of PDCP ELEMENT FALSE Additional PDCP
duplication duplication Information IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.38

# 14310 >UL More than one STRUCTURE moreThanOneRLC IE in RLC TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 14311 >>Primary Path STRUCTURE primaryPath IE in TS
38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 14312 >>>Cell ELEMENT TRUE cellGroup IE in TS 38.331
Group ID [22] Clause 6

# 14313 >>>Logical ELEMENT FALSE logicalChannelIdentity IE
Channel ID in TS 38.331 [22] Sec 6

# 14314 >UL More than two STRUCTURE moreThanTwoRLC- RLC DRB-r16 IE in TS
38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 14315 >>Split ELEMENT FALSE splitSecondaryPath IE in Secondary Path TS 38.331 [22] Sec 6

# 14316 >>Duplication ELEMENT FALSE duplicationState IE in TS
State 38.331 [22] Sec 6

# 14317 Averaging ELEMENT FALSE Averaging Window IE in Window TS 37.483 [21] Clause
9.3.1.49

# 14318 Delay Critical ELEMENT FALSE Delay Critical IE in TS
37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.28

# 14319 Maximum Data ELEMENT FALSE Maximum Data Burst
Burst Volume Volume IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.50

#### 8.1.1.6 QoS flow
The following RAN Parameters are associated with the NG-RAN QoS flow. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key Flag RAN Parameter Semantics Description Parameter Parameter Definition ID Value Type

# 15001 5QI ELEMENT FALSE 5QI IE in TS 37.483 [21]
Clause 9.3.1.27 or TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.28

# 15002 Packet Delay ELEMENT FALSE Packet Delay Budget IE in Budget TS 37.483 [21] Clause
9.3.1.47

# 15003 Packet Error Rate ELEMENT FALSE Packet Error Rate IE in TS
37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.48

# 15004 NG-RAN DRB STRUCTURE NG-RAN Allocation and Allocation and Retention Priority IE in
Retention Priority TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.29

# 15005 >Priority Level ELEMENT FALSE Priority Level IE in TS
37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.29

# 15006 >Pre-emption ELEMENT FALSE Pre-emption Capability IE
Capability in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.29

# 15007 >Pre-emption ELEMENT FALSE Pre-emption Vulnerability
Vulnerability IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.29

# 15008 Priority Level of the ELEMENT FALSE Priority Level IE in TS
mapped QoS flows 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.51

# 15009 QoS parameters for STRUCTURE GBR QoS Flow
GBR flows in NG- Information IE in TS RAN Bearer 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.30

# 15010 >Maximum Flow Bit ELEMENT FALSE Bit Rate IE in TS 37.483
Rate Downlink [21] Clause 9.3.1.30

# 15011 >Guaranteed Flow ELEMENT FALSE Bit Rate IE in TS 37.483
Bit Rate Downlink [21] Clause 9.3.1.30

# 15012 >Maximum Packet ELEMENT FALSE Packet Loss Rate IE in TS
Loss Rate 37.483 [21] Clause Downlink 9.3.1.30

# 15013 Maximum Flow Bit ELEMENT FALSE Bit Rate IE in TS 37.483
Rate Uplink [21] Clause 9.3.1.30

# 15014 >Guaranteed Flow ELEMENT FALSE Bit Rate IE in TS 37.483
Bit Rate Uplink [21] Clause 9.3.1.30

# 15015 >Maximum Packet ELEMENT FALSE Packet Loss Rate IE in TS
Loss Rate Uplink 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.30

# 15016 QoS Monitoring ELEMENT FALSE QoS Monitoring Request
Enable Request IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.26

# 15017 QoS Monitoring ELEMENT FALSE QoS Monitoring Reporting
Reporting Frequency IE in TS Frequency 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.26

# 15018 QoS Monitoring ELEMENT FALSE QoS Monitoring Disabled
Disabled IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.26

# 15019 Reflective QoS ELEMENT FALSE RDI IE in TS 37.483 [21]
Mapping Clause 9.3.1.26

# 15020 Redundant QoS ELEMENT FALSE Redundant QoS Flow
Flow Indicator Indicator IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.74

# 15021 Averaging Window ELEMENT FALSE Averaging Window IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause
9.3.1.49

# 15022 Delay Critical ELEMENT FALSE Delay Critical IE in TS
37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.28

# 15023 Maximum Data ELEMENT FALSE Maximum Data Burst
Burst Volume Volume IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.50

#### 8.1.1.7 Cell Group
The following RAN Parameters are associated with the NR cell group item. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key Flag RAN Parameter Semantics Parameter Parameter Definition Description ID Value Type

# 15502 UL Configuration ELEMENT FALSE UL Configuration IE in TS
37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.11

# 15503 RAT Type ELEMENT FALSE RAT Type IE in TS 37.483
[21] Clause 9.3.1.11

# 15504 Number of Tunnels ELEMENT FALSE Number of Tunnels IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause
9.3.1.11

#### 8.1.1.8 L2 Bearer State Variables
The following RAN Parameters are associated with UE-specific L2 bearer state variables across PDCP, RLC layers. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key RAN Parameter Semantics Parameter Parameter Flag Definition Description ID Value Type

# 16001 PDCP State Variables STRUCTURE PDCP State
Variables defined in

# 16002 >LCID ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER (0.. 63) TS 38.323 [24] clause
7.1. LCID indicates

# 16003 >TX_Next ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0.. 232-1) logical channel ID, to pinpoint which PDCP

# 16004 >RX_Next ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0.. 232-1)
entity.

# 16005 >RX_Deliv ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0.. 232-1)

# 16006 >RX_Reord ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0.. 232-1)

# 16010 RLC UM State Variables STRUCTURE RLC UM State
Variables defined in

# 16011 >LCID ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER (0.. 63) TS 38.322 [25] clause
7.1. LCID indicates 16012 >TX_Next ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0.. 4095) logical channel ID, to pinpoint which RLC 16013 >RX_Next_Reassembly ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0.. 4095) UM entity. 16014 >RX_Timer_Trigger ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0.. 4095) 16015 >RX_Next_Highest ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0.. 4095)

# 16020 RLC AM State Variables STRUCTURE RLC AM State
Variables defined in

# 16021 >LCID ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER (0.. 63) TS 38.322 [25] clause
7.1. LCID indicates 16022 >TX_Next_Ack ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0.. 262143) logical channel ID, to pinpoint which RLC 16023 >TX_Next ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0.. 262143) AM entity. 16024 >POLL_SN ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0.. 262143) 16025 >RX_Next ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0.. 262143) 16026 >RX_Next_Status_Trigger ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0.. 262143) 16027 >RX_Highest_Status ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0.. 262143) 16028 >RX_Next_Highest ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0.. 262143)

#### 8.1.1.9 E-RAB QoS Parameters
The following RAN Parameters are associated with E-RAB QoS. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key Flag RAN Parameter Semantics Description Parameter Parameter Definition ID Value Type

# 16201 QCI ELEMENT FALSE QCI IE in TS 36.423 [17]
Clause 9.2.9

# 16202 Allocation and STRUCTURE Allocation and Retention
Retention Priority Priority IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.31

# 16203 >Priority Level ELEMENT FALSE Priority Level IE in TS
36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.31

# 16204 >Pre-emption ELEMENT FALSE Pre-emption Capability IE
Capability in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.31

# 16205 >Pre-emption ELEMENT FALSE Pre-emption Vulnerability
Vulnerability IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.31

# 16206 GBR QoS STRUCTURE GBR QoS Information IE
Information in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.9

# 16207 >E-RAB Maximum ELEMENT FALSE Bit Rate IE in TS 36.423 E-RAB Maximum Bit
Bit Rate Downlink [17] Clause 9.2.11 Rate Downlink IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.10

# 16208 >E-RAB Maximum ELEMENT FALSE Bit Rate IE in TS 36.423 E-RAB Maximum Bit
Bit Rate Uplink [17] Clause 9.2.11 Rate Uplink IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.10

# 16209 >E-RAB ELEMENT FALSE Bit Rate IE in TS 36.423 E-RAB Guaranteed Bit
Guaranteed Bit [17] Clause 9.2.11 Rate Downlink IE in TS Rate Downlink 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.10

# 16210 >E-RAB ELEMENT FALSE Bit Rate IE in TS 36.423 E-RAB Guarnateed Bit
Guaranteed Bit [17] Clause 9.2.11 Rate Downlink IE in TS Rate Downlink 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.10

# 16211 Downlink Maximum ELEMENT FALSE Packet Loss Rate IE in TS Downlink Maximum
Packet Loss Rate 36.423 [17] Clause Packet Loss Rate IE in

### 9.2.124 TS 36.423 [17] Clause
9.2.10

# 16212 Uplink Maximum ELEMENT FALSE Packet Loss Rate IE in TS Uplink Maximum Packet
Packet Loss Rate 36.423 [17] Clause Loss Rate IE in TS

### 9.2.124 36.423 [17] Clause
9.2.10

#### 8.1.1.10 Connectivity and Mobility Event thresholds
The following RAN Parameters are associated with connectivity and mobility event thresholds, mainly related to A1, A2, A3, A4, A5, A6 events and inter-RAT B1 and B2 events. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key Flag RAN Parameter Semantics Parameter Parameter Definition Description ID Value Type

# 16500 Event AN Trigger STRUCTURE EventTriggerConfig IE
Config in TS 38.331 [22]

# 16501 >CHOICE AN Event STRUCTURE eventID IE in TS
38.331 [22]

# 16502 >>A1 Event STRUCTURE EventA1 IE in TS
38.331 [22]

# 16503 >>>A1- STRUCTURE 8.1.1.3
Threshold

# 16504 >>>Hysteresis ELEMENT FALSE Hysteresis IE in TS
38.331 [22]

# 16505 >>RS-Type ELEMENT FALSE rsType IE in TS
38.331 [22]

# 16506 >>A2 Event STRUCTURE EventA2 IE in TS
38.331 [22]

# 16507 >>>A2- STRUCTURE 8.1.1.3
Threshold

# 16508 >>>Hysteresis ELEMENT FALSE Hysteresis IE in TS
38.331 [22]

# 16509 >>>RS-Type ELEMENT FALSE rsType IE in TS
38.331 [22]

# 16510 >>A3 Event STRUCTURE EventA3 IE in TS
38.331 [22]

# 16511 >>>A3-Offset STRUCTURE 8.1.1.3

# 16512 >>>Hysteresis ELEMENT FALSE Hysteresis IE in TS
38.331 [22]

# 16513 >>>RS-Type ELEMENT FALSE rsType IE in TS
38.331 [22]

# 16514 >>A4 Event STRUCTURE EventA4 IE in TS
38.331 [22]

# 16515 >>>A4- STRUCTURE 8.1.1.3
Threshold

# 16516 >>>Hysteresis ELEMENT FALSE Hysteresis IE in TS
38.331 [22]

# 16517 >>>RS-Type ELEMENT FALSE rsType IE in TS
38.331 [22]

# 16518 >>A5 Event STRUCTURE EventA5 IE in TS
38.331 [22]

# 16519 >>>A5- STRUCTURE 8.1.1.3
Threshold1

# 16520 >>>A5- STRUCTURE 8.1.1.3
Threshold2

# 16521 >>>Hysteresis ELEMENT FALSE Hysteresis IE in TS
38.331 [22]

# 16522 >>>RS-Type ELEMENT FALSE rsType IE in TS
38.331 [22]

# 16523 >>A6 Event STRUCTURE EventA6 IE in TS
38.331 [22]

# 16524 >>>A6-Offset STRUCTURE 8.1.1.3

# 16525 >>>Hysteresis ELEMENT FALSE Hysteresis IE in TS
38.331 [22]

# 16526 >>>RS-Type ELEMENT FALSE rsType IE in TS
38.331 [22]

# 16550 Event Trigger Config STRUCTURE EventTriggerConfigInt
Inter RAT erRAT IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 16551 >CHOICE Inter-RAT STRUCTURE eventId IE in TS
Event 38.331 [22]

# 16552 >>B1 Event STRUCTURE eventB1 IE in TS
38.331 [22]

# 16553 >>>B1- STRUCTURE 8.1.1.3
Threshold

# 16554 >>>Hysteresis ELEMENT FALSE Hysteresis IE in TS
38.331 [22]

# 16555 >>>RS-Type ELEMENT FALSE rsType IE in TS
38.331 [22]

# 16556 >>B2 Event STRUCTURE eventB2 IE in TS
38.331 [22]

# 16557 >>>B2- STRUCTURE 8.1.1.3
Threshold-NR

# 16558 >>>B2- STRUCTURE 8.1.1.3
Threshold- EUTRA

# 16559 >>>Hysteresis ELEMENT FALSE Hysteresis IE in TS
38.331 [22]

# 16560 >>>RS-Type ELEMENT FALSE rsType IE in TS
38.331 [22]

#### 8.1.1.11 E2 Node
The following RAN Parameters are associated with the E2 node. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key Flag RAN Parameter Semantics Parameter Parameter Definition Description ID Value Type

# 17001 CHOICE E2 Node Component Type STRUCTURE O-RAN WG3
E2AP Clause 9.2.26

# 17010 >NG-RAN gNB STRUCTURE O-RAN WG3
E2AP Clause 9.2.27

# 17011 >>Global gNB ID STRUCTURE TS 38.413
[11] Clause 9.3.1.6

# 17012 >>>PLMN Identity ELEMENT FALSE PLMN Identity IE
in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.3.5

# 17013 >>>CHOICE gNB ID STRUCTURE gNB ID IE in TS 38.413
[11] Clause 9.3.1.6

# 17014 >>>>gNB ID STRUCTURE gNB ID IE in TS 38.413
[11] Clause 9.3.1.6

# 17015 >>>>>gNB ID ELEMENT FALSE gNB ID IE in TS
38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.6

# 17016 >>List of NR served cells LIST List of Served
Cells NR IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.1.3.1

# 17017 >>>Served NR cell item STRUCTURE Individual
cell item in the List of Served Cells NR

# 17028 >>>>Served NR cell STRUCTURE NR Cell IE in 8.1.1.1

# 17018 >>Count of list of NR served cells ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER
(1..16384)

# 17019 >>List of NR neighbour cells LIST Neighbour
Information IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.2.13

# 17020 >>>NR neighbour cell item STRUCTURE Individual
cell item in the Neighor Information IE NR

# 17031 >>>>Neighbour NR cell STRUCTURE NR Cell IE in 8.1.1.1

# 17021 >>Number of RRC connections ELEMENT FALSE Number of RRC
connections IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.2.57

# 17022 >>gNB Performance STRUCTURE 8.1.1.15
Measurements

# 17050 >en-gNB STRUCTURE O-RAN WG3
E2AP Clause 9.2.27

# 17051 >>Global en-gNB ID STRUCTURE TS 36.423
[17] Clause 9.2.112

# 17052 >>>PLMN Identity ELEMENT FALSE PLMN Identity IE
in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.4

# 17053 >>>CHOICE en-gNB ID STRUCTURE en-gNB ID IE in TS 36.423 [17]
Clause 9.2.112

# 17054 >>>>en-gNB ID STRUCTURE en-gNB ID IE in TS 36.423 [17]
Clause 9.2.112

# 17055 >>>>>en-gNB ID ELEMENT FALSE en-gNB ID IE in TS 36.423 [17]
Clause 9.2.112

# 17056 >>List of served NR cells LIST List of Served
Cells NR IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.1.3.1

# 17057 >>>Served NR cell item STRUCTURE Individual
cell item in the List of Served Cells NR IE

# 17068 >>>>Served NR cell STRUCTURE NR Cell IE in 8.1.1.1

# 17058 >>Count of list of NR served cells ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER
(1..16384)

# 17059 >>List of NR neighbour cells LIST Neighbour
Information IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.2.13

# 17060 >>>NR neighbour cell item STRUCTURE Individual
cell item in Neighbour Information IE

# 17065 >>>>NR neighbour cell STRUCTURE NR Cell IE in 8.1.1.1

# 17061 >>gNB Performance STRUCTURE 8.1.1.15 gNB
Measurements Measurement s IE in Sec 8.1.1.15

# 17070 >ng-eNB STRUCTURE O-RAN WG3
E2AP Clause 9.2.27

# 17071 >>ng-eNB ID STRUCTURE ng-eNB ID IE
TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.2.2.2

# 17072 >>>PLMN Identity ELEMENT FALSE PLMN Identity IE
in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.6

# 17073 >>>CHOICE ng-eNB ID STRUCTURE Ng-eNB ID IE
in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.2.2.2

# 17074 >>>>Macro ng-eNB ID STRUCTURE Macro ng- eNB ID IE in
TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.2.2.2

# 17075 >>>>>Macro ng-eNB ID ELEMENT FALSE Macro ng-eNB ID
IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.2.2.2

# 17076 >>>>Short Macro ng-eNB STRUCTURE Short Macro
ID ng-eNB ID IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.2.2.2

# 17077 >>>>>Short Macro ng- ELEMENT FALSE Short Macro ng- eNB ID eNB ID IE in TS
38.413 [11] Clause 9.2.2.2

# 17078 >>>>Long Macro ng-eNB ID STRUCTURE Long Macro
ng-eNB ID IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.2.2.2

# 17079 >>>>>Long Macro ng- ELEMENT FALSE Long Macro ng- eNB ID eNB ID IE in TS
38.413 [11] Clause 9.2.2.2

# 17080 >>List of E-UTRA served cells LIST List of Served
Cells E-UTRA IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.1.3.1

# 17081 >>>Served E-UTRA cell item STRUCTURE Individual cell
item in List of Served Cells E-UTRA IE

# 17092 >>>>Served E-UTRA cell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.2

# 17082 >>Count of list of E-UTRA served ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER
cells (0..16384)

# 17083 >>List of E-UTRA neighbour cells LIST Neighbour
Information E- UTRA IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.2.14

# 17084 >>>E-UTRA neighbour cell item STRUCTURE Individual cell
item in Neighbour Information E- UTRA IE

# 17095 >>>>E-UTRA neighbour cell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.2

# 17085 >>Number of RRC connections ELEMENT FALSE Number of RRC
connections IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.2.57

# 17086 >>eNB Performance STRUCTURE 8.1.1.18
Measurements

# 17100 >NG-RAN gNB CU-CP STRUCTURE O-RAN WG3
E2AP Clause 9.2.27

# 17101 >>Global gNB CU-CP ID STRUCTURE TS 38.413
[11] Clause 9.3.1.6

# 17102 >>>PLMN Identity ELEMENT FALSE PLMN Identity IE
in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.3.5

# 17103 >>>CHOICE gNB ID STRUCTURE gNB ID IE in TS 38.413
[11] Clause 9.3.1.6

# 17104 >>>>gNB ID STRUCTURE gNB ID IE in TS 38.413
[11] Clause 9.3.1.6

# 17105 >>>>>gNB ID ELEMENT FALSE gNB ID IE in TS
38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.6

# 17107 >>List of activated NR cells LIST Cells to be
Activated List IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.1.10

# 17108 >>>NR cell item STRUCTURE Cells to be
Activated Item IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.1.10

# 17109 >>>>NR cell STRUCTURE NR Cell IE in 8.1.1.1

# 17110 >>>>Available PLMN List LIST Available
PLMN List IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.1.10

# 17111 >>>>>PLMN Item STRUCTURE Available
PLMN Item IEs IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.65

# 17112 >>>>>>PLMN ID ELEMENT FALSE PLMN Identity IE
in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.3.5

# 17113 >>List of de-activated NR cells LIST Cells to be
Deactivated List IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.1.10

# 17114 >>>NR cell item STRUCTURE Individual cell
item in Cells to be Deactivated List IE

# 17515 >>>>NR cell STRUCTURE NR Cell IE in 8.1.1.1

# 17115 >>List of barred NR cells LIST Cells to be
barred List IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.1.10

# 17116 >>>NR cell item STRUCTURE Individual cell
item in Cells to be barred List IE

# 17517 >>>>NR cell STRUCTURE NR Cell IE in 8.1.1.1

# 17117 >>Count of list of NR served cells ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER
(0..16384)

# 17118 >>List of NR neighbour cells LIST Neighbour
Cell Information List IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.1.10

# 17119 >>>NR neighbour cell item STRUCTURE Individual
Cell Item in Neighbour Cell Information List IE

# 17520 >>>>NR neighbour cell STRUCTURE NR Cell IE in 8.1.1.1

# 17120 >>Number of RRC connected UEs ELEMENT FALSE Number of RRC
connections IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.2.57

# 17121 >>gNB CU-CP Performance STRUCTURE 8.1.1.12
Measurements

# 17130 >NG-RAN gNB DU STRUCTURE O-RAN WG3
E2AP Clause 9.2.27

# 17132 >>gNB-DU ID ELEMENT FALSE gNB-DU ID IE in TS 38.473 [19]
Clause 9.3.1.9

# 17133 >>List of NR served cells LIST List of Served
Cells NR IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.1.3.1

# 17134 >>>Served NR cell item STRUCTURE Individual cell
item in List of Served Cells NR IE

# 17535 >>>>Served NR cell STRUCTURE NR Cell IE in 8.1.1.1

# 17135 >>gNB DU Measurements STRUCTURE 8.1.1.14

# 17140 >NG-RAN gNB CU-UP STRUCTURE O-RAN WG3
E2AP Clause 9.2.27

# 17141 >>gNB CU-UP ID ELEMENT TRUE gNB-CU-UP ID
IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.15

# 17142 >>gNB CU-UP Capacity ELEMENT FALSE gNB-CU-UP
Capacity IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.56

# 17143 >>gNB CU-UP Performance STRUCTURE 8.1.1.13
Measurements

# 17150 >eNB STRUCTURE O-RAN WG3
E2AP Clause 9.2.27

# 17151 >>eNB ID STRUCTURE eNB ID IE TS
36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.2.2

# 17152 >>>PLMN Identity ELEMENT FALSE PLMN Identity IE
in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.4

# 17153 >>>CHOICE eNB ID STRUCTURE Global eNB ID
IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.22

# 17154 >>>>Macro eNB ID STRUCTURE Macro eNB ID
IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.22

# 17155 >>>>>Macro eNB ID ELEMENT FALSE Macro eNB ID IE
in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.22

# 17156 >>>>Home eNB ID STRUCTURE Home eNB ID
IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.22

# 17157 >>>>>Home eNB ID ELEMENT FALSE Home eNB ID IE
in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.22

# 17158 >>>>Short Macro eNB ID STRUCTURE Short Macro
eNB ID IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.22

# 17159 >>>>>Short Macro eNB ELEMENT FALSE Short Macro eNB
ID ID IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.22

# 17160 >>>>Long Macro eNB ID STRUCTURE Long Macro
eNB ID IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.22

# 17161 >>>>>Long Macro eNB ELEMENT FALSE Long Macro eNB
ID ID IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.22

# 17162 >>List of E-UTRA served cells LIST List of Served
Cells E-UTRA IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.1.3.1

# 17163 >>>Served E-UTRA cell item STRUCTURE Individual cell
item in List of Served Cells E-UTRA IE

# 17564 >>>>Served E-UTRA cell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.2

# 17164 >>Count of list of E-UTRA served ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER
cells (0..16384)

# 17165 >>List of E-UTRA neighbour cells LIST Neighbour
Information E- UTRA IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.2.14

# 17166 >>>E-UTRA neighbour cell item STRUCTURE Individual cell
item in Neighbour Information E- UTRA IE

# 17567 >>>>E-UTRA neighbour cell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.2

# 17167 >>Number of RRC connected UEs ELEMENT FALSE Number of RRC
connections IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.2.57

# 17168 >>List of NR neighbour cells LIST Neighbour
Information IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.2.13

# 17169 >>>NR neighbour cell item STRUCTURE Individual cell
item in Neighbour Information IE

# 17570 >>>>NR neighbour cell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.1

# 17170 >>eNB Performance STRUCTURE 8.1.1.18
Measurements

# 17200 TAI Support List LIST TAI Support
List IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.20

# 17201 >TAI Support Item STRUCTURE TAI Support
Item IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.20

# 17202 >>TAC ELEMENT FALSE TAC IE in TS
38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.2.5

# 17203 >>List of Broadcast PLMNs LIST Broadcast
PLMNs IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.20

# 17204 >>>Broadcast PLMN Item STRUCTURE Broadcast
PLMNs IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.20

# 17205 >>>PLMN Identity ELEMENT FALSE PLMN Identity IE
in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.3.5

# 17206 >>>TAI Slice Support List LIST TAI Slice
Support List IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.20

# 17207 >>>>Slice Support Item STRUCTURE Slice Support
Item IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.20

# 17208 >>>>>S-NSSAI STRUCTURE S-NSSAI IE in TS 38.473
[19] Clause 9.3.1.38

# 17209 >>>>>>SST ELEMENT TRUE SST IE in TS
38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.38

# 17210 >>>>>>SD ELEMENT FALSE SD IE in TS
38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.38

# 17211 >>>Count of TAI Slice ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER
Support List (0..1024)

# 17212 >>>NR CGI Support List LIST List of Served
Cells NR IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.1.3.1

# 17213 >>>>NR CGI Cell STRUCTURE Individual cell
Support Item item in List of Served Cells NR IE

# 17614 >>>>>NR CGI Cell STRUCTURE NR Cell IE in 8.1.1.1

# 17214 >>>E-UTRA CGI Support LIST List of Served
List Cells E-UTRA IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.1.3.1

# 17215 >>>>E-UTRA CGI Cell STRUCTURE Individual cell
Support Item item in List of Served Cells E-UTRA IE

# 17616 >>>>>E-UTRA CGI STRUCTURE E-UTRA Cell IE
in 8.1.1.2

# 17216 >>>QoS Parameters LIST QoS Flow List
Support List IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.12

# 17217 >>>>QoS Parameters STRUCTURE QoS Flow
Support Item Item IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.12

# 17218 >>>>>CHOICE QoS STRUCTURE
Parameters Support Item

# 17219 >>>>>>NG-RAN STRUCTURE 8.1.1.6
QoS Support Item

# 17221 >>>>>>E-UTRA STRUCTURE 8.1.1.9
QoS Support Item

# 17223 >>Count of list of broadcast ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0..12)
PLMNs

# 17224 Count of TAI Support List ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER
(0..256) 8.1.1.12 gNB CU-CP Measurements The following RAN Parameters are associated with the gNB CU-CP measurements. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key Flag RAN Parameter Semantics Parameter Parameter Definition Description ID Value Type

# 18001 Inter-gNB Handovers STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.6.1

# 18002 >Number of requested handover ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
operations Sec 5.1.3.7.1.1

# 18003 >Number of successful handover ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
preparations Sec 5.1.3.7.1.2

# 18004 >List of failure causes in handover LIST 0..<maxnoofcaus TS 28.552 [28]
preparations es> Sec 5.1.1.6.1.3

# 18005 >>Failure Cause Item STRUCTURE

# 18006 >>>Failure Cause ELEMENT TRUE Cause IE in TS
38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.2

# 18007 >>Number of failed handover ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
preparations for the cause Sec 5.1.1.6.1.3

# 18008 >Number of requested handover ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
resource allocations Sec 5.1.1.6.1.4

# 18009 >Number of successful handover ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
resource allocations Sec 5.1.1.6.1.5

# 18010 >List of failure causes LIST 0..<maxnoofcaus TS 28.552 [28]
es> Sec 5.1.1.6.1.6

# 18011 >>Failure Cause Item STRUCTURE

# 18012 >>>Failure Cause ELEMENT TRUE Cause IE in TS
38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 18013 >>>Number of failed handover ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
resource allocations for the Sec 5.1.1.6.1.6 cause

# 18014 >Number of requested handover ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
executions Sec 5.1.1.6.1.7

# 18015 >Number of successful handover ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
executions Sec 5.1.1.6.1.8

# 18016 >List of failure causes in handover LIST 0..<maxnoofcaus TS 28.552 [28]
execution es> Sec 5.1.1.6.1.9

# 18017 >>Failure cause Item STRUCTURE

# 18018 >>>Failure Cause ELEMENT TRUE Cause IE in TS
38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.2

# 18019 >>>Number of failed handover ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
executions for the cause Sec 5.1.1.6.1.9

# 18020 >List of Slices LIST 0..<maxnoofslice TS 28.552 [28]
s> Sec 5.1.1.6.1.10

# 18021 >>Slice Item STRUCTURE

# 18022 >>>S-NSSAI STRUCTURE S-NSSAI IE in TS 38.473 [19]
Clause 9.3.1.38

# 18023 >>>>SST ELEMENT TRUE SST IE in TS
38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.38

# 18024 >>>>SD ELEMENT FALSE SD IE in TS
38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.38

# 18025 >>>Mean Time of requested ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
handover executions Sec 5.1.1.6.1.10

# 18026 >>>Max Time of requested ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
handover executions Sec 5.1.1.6.1.11

# 18031 >MRO Measurements STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.25

# 18032 >>Number of too-early handovers ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.25.1

# 18033 >>Number of too-late handovers ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.25.1

# 18034 >>Number of wrong cell handovers ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.25.1

# 18051 Intra-gNB Handovers STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.3.7.1

# 18052 >Number of requested handover ELEMENT FALSE TS 28.552 [28]
executions Sec 5.1.1.6.2.1

# 18053 >Number of successful handover ELEMENT FALSE TS 28.552 [28]
executions Sec 5.1.1.6.2.2

# 18054 List of UE Context release causes LIST 0..<maxnoofcaus TS 28.552 [28]
es> Sec 5.1.3.5.2

# 18055 >Release Cause Item STRUCTURE

# 18056 >>Release Cause ELEMENT TRUE Cause IE in TS
38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 18057 >>Number of UE Context Release ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
Requests Sec 5.1.3.5.2

# 18061 >MRO Measurements STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.25

# 18062 >>Number of too-early handovers ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.25.1

# 18063 >>Number of too-late handovers ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.25.1

# 18064 >>Number of wrong cell handovers ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.25.1

# 18400 Average normally-released call ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
duration for 5QI 1 QoS flow Sec 5.1.1.24.1

# 18071 Distribution bins for normally-released LIST 0..<maxnoofbins TS 28.552 [28]
call duration for 5QI 1 QoS flow > Sec 5.1.3.8

# 18072 >Distribution bin item STRUCTURE

# 18073 >>Call Duration Bin Value ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.3.8

# 18074 >>Number of samples ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.3.8

# 18450 Average abnormally-released call ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
duration for 5QI 1 QoS flow Sec 5.1.1.24.2

# 18075 Distribution bins for abnormally- LIST 0..<maxnoofbins TS 28.552 [28]
released call duration for 5QI 1 QoS > Sec 5.1.3.9 flow

# 18076 >Distribution bin item STRUCTURE

# 18077 >>Call Duration Bin Value ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.3.9

# 18078 >>Number of samples ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.3.9

# 18100 RRC connection related measurements STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.15

# 18101 >List of attempted RRC connection LIST 0..<maxnoofcaus TS 28.552 [28]
establishment causes es> Sec 5.1.1.15.1

# 18102 >>Attempted RRC connection STRUCTURE
establishment cause item

# 18103 >>>Cause ELEMENT TRUE Cause IE in TS
38.331 [22] Sec 6.2.2

# 18104 >>>Number of attempted RRC ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
connection establishments Sec 5.1.1.15.1

# 18111 >List of successful RRC connection LIST 0..<maxnoofcaus TS 28.552 [28]
establishment causes es> Sec 5.1.1.15.2

# 18112 >>Succesful RRC connection STRUCTURE
establishment cause item

# 18113 >>>Cause ELEMENT TRUE Cause IE in TS
38.331 [22] Sec 6.2.2

# 18114 >>>Number of successful RRC ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
connection establishments Sec 5.1.1.15.2

# 18121 >Number of RRC connection re- ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
establishment attempts Sec 5.1.1.17.1

# 18122 >Successful number of RRC ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
connection re-establishment with UE Sec 5.1.1.17.2 context

# 18123 >Successful number of RRC ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
connection re-establishment without Sec 5.1.1.17.3 UE context

# 18131 >List of RRC connection resuming LIST 0..<maxnoofcaus TS 28.552 [28]
attempt causes es> Sec 5.1.1.18.1

# 18132 >>Cause item STRUCTURE

# 18133 >>>Cause ELEMENT TRUE Cause IE in TS
38.331 [22] Sec 6.2.2

# 18134 >>>Number of RRC connection ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
resuming attempts Sec 5.1.1.18.1

# 18141 >List of successful RRC connection LIST 0..<maxnoofcaus TS 28.552 [28]
resuming causes es> Sec 5.1.1.18.2

# 18142 >>Cause item STRUCTURE

# 18143 >>>Cause ELEMENT TRUE Cause IE in TS
38.331 [22] Sec 6.2.2

# 18144 >>>Number of successful RRC ELEMENT FALSE TS 28.552 [28]
connection resuming attempts Sec 5.1.1.18.2

# 18151 >List of causes for successful RRC LIST 0..<maxnoofcaus TS 28.552 [28]
connection resuming with fallback es> Sec 5.1.1.18.3

# 18152 >>Cause item STRUCTURE

# 18153 >>>Cause ELEMENT TRUE Cause IE in TS
38.331 [22] Sec 6.2.2

# 18154 >>>Number of successful RRC ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
connection resuming attempts Sec 5.1.1.18.3 with fallback

# 18161 >Number of RRC connection resuming ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
processes followed by network release Sec 5.1.1.18.4

# 18162 >Number of RRC connection resuming ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
processes followed by network Sec 5.1.1.18.5 suspension

# 18163 >Mean number of RRC connections ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.4.1

# 18164 >Maximum number of RRC ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
connections Sec 5.1.1.4.2

# 18165 >Mean number of stored inactive RRC ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
connections Sec 5.1.1.4.3

# 18166 >Maximum number of stored inactive ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
RRC connections Sec 5.1.1.4.4

# 18200 QoS flow related measurements STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.13

# 18201 >List of QoS levels LIST 0..<maxnoofflow TS 28.552 [28]
s> Sec 5.1.1.13

# 18202 >>QoS level item STRUCTURE

# 18203 >>>CHOICE QoS level STRUCTURE

# 18204 >>>>5QI ELEMENT TRUE 5QI IE in TS
38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.28

# 18205 >>>>S-NSSAI STRUCTURE S-NSSAI IE in TS 38.473 [19]
Clause 9.3.1.38

# 18206 >>>>>SST ELEMENT TRUE SST IE in TS
38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.38

# 18207 >>>>>SD ELEMENT FALSE SD IE in TS
38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.38

# 18210 >>>Number of QoS flows ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
attempted to release Sec 5.1.1.13.1.2

# 18211 >>>In-session activity time ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.13.2.1

# 18212 >>>Number of QoS flows ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
attempted to setup Sec 5.1.1.13.3.1

# 18213 >>>Number of QoS flows ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
successfully established Sec 5.1.1.13.2.1

# 18214 >>>Number of QoS flows ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
attempted to modify Sec 5.1.1.13.4.1

# 18215 >>>Number of QoS flows ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
successfully modified Sec 5.1.1.13.4.2

# 18216 >>>Number of QoS flows failed ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
to modify Sec 5.1.1.13.4.3

# 18250 DRB related measurements STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.10

# 18251 >List of QoS levels LIST 0..<maxnoofflow TS 28.552 [28]
s> Sec 5.1.1.10

# 18252 >>QoS level item STRUCTURE

# 18253 >>>CHOICE QoS level STRUCTURE

# 18254 >>>>5QI ELEMENT TRUE 5QI IE in TS
38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.28

# 18255 >>>>S-NSSAI STRUCTURE S-NSSAI IE in TS 38.473 [19]
Clause 9.3.1.38

# 18256 >>>>>SST ELEMENT TRUE SST IE in TS
38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.38

# 18257 >>>>>SD ELEMENT FALSE SD IE in TS
38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.38

# 18258 >>>Number of DRBs attempted ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
to setup Sec 5.1.1.10.1

# 18259 >>>Number of DRBs ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
successfully setup Sec 5.1.1.10.2

# 18260 >>>Number of released active ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
DRBs Sec 5.1.1.10.3

# 18261 >>>In-session activity time for ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
DRBs Sec 5.1.1.10.4

# 18262 >Total number of DRBs successfully ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER
setup aggregated across QoS levels

# 18270 PDU Session Management STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.5

# 18271 >List of slices LIST 0..<maxnoofslice TS 28.552 [28]
s> Sec 5.1.1.18.5

# 18272 >>Slice Item STRUCTURE

# 18273 >>>S-NSSAI STRUCTURE S-NSSAI IE in TS 38.473 [19]
Clause 9.3.1.38

# 18274 >>>>SST ELEMENT TRUE SST IE in TS
38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.38

# 18275 >>>>SD ELEMENT FALSE SD IE in TS
38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.38

# 18276 >>>Number of PDU sessions ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
requested for setup Sec 5.1.1.5.1

# 18277 >>>Number of PDU sessions ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
successfully setup Sec 5.1.1.5.2

# 18278 >>>Number of PDU sessions ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
failed to setup Sec 5.1.1.5.3

# 18301 Inter-system mobility measurements STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
between 5GS and EPS Sec 5.1.1.6.3

# 18302 >Number of requested HO ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
preparations Sec 5.1.1.6.3.1

# 18303 >Number of successful HO ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
preparations Sec 5.1.1.6.3.2

# 18304 >Number of failed HO preparations ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.6.3.3

# 18305 >Number of requested resource ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
allocations for HO Sec 5.1.1.6.3.4

# 18306 >Number of successful resource ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
allocations for HO Sec 5.1.1.6.3.5

# 18307 >Number of failed resource allocations ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
for HO Sec 5.1.1.6.3.6

# 18308 >Number of requested HO executions ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.6.3.7

# 18309 >Number of successful HO executions ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.6.3.8

# 18310 >Number of failed HO executions ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.6.3.9

# 18321 >MRO measurements STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.25

# 18322 >>Number of too early handovers ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.25.2

# 18323 >>Number of too late handovers ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.25.2

# 18324 >>Number of unnecessary ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
handovers Sec 5.1.1.25.3

# 18325 >>Number of ping-pong handovers ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.25.4 8.1.1.13 gNB CU-UP Measurements The following RAN Parameters are associated with gNB CU-UP measurements. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key Flag RAN Parameter Semantics Parameter Parameter Definition Description ID Value Type

# 19001 Packet delay measurements STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.3.3 and 5.1.1.1

# 19002 >List of QoS levels LIST TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.3.3 and 5.1.1.1

# 19003 >>QoS level item STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.3.3 and 5.1.1.1

# 19004 >>>CHOICE QoS level STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.3.3 and 5.1.1.1

# 19005 >>>>5QI ELEMENT TRUE 5QI IE in TS
38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.28

# 19006 >>>>S-NSSAI STRUCTURE S-NSSAI IE in TS 38.473 [19]
Clause 9.3.1.38

# 19007 >>>>>SST ELEMENT TRUE SST IE in TS
38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.38

# 19008 >>>>>SD ELEMENT FALSE SD IE in TS
38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.38

# 19009 >>>PDCP re-ordering delay in ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
the UL Sec 5.1.1.1.5

# 19010 >>>Distribution bins for DL LIST 0..<maxnoofbins TS 28.552 [28]
packet delay > Sec 5.1.1.1.6 and 5.1.3.3.4

# 19011 >>>>Distribution bin item STRUCTURE

# 19012 >>>>>DL packet delay ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
bin value Sec 5.1.1.1.6 and 5.1.3.3.4

# 19013 >>>>>Number of ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
samples Sec 5.1.1.1.6 and 5.1.3.3.4

# 19021 >>>Distribution bins for UL LIST TS 28.552 [28]
packet delay Sec 5.1.1.1.7

# 19022 >>>>Distribution bin item STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.1.7

# 19023 >>>>>DL packet delay ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
bin value Sec 5.1.1.1.7

# 19024 >>>>>Number of ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
samples Sec 5.1.1.1.7

# 19051 >>>UL PDCP SDU Loss Rate ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.3.1.1

# 19052 >>>UL F1-U Packet Loss Rate ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.3.1.2

# 19053 >>>DL PDCP SDU Drop Rate ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.3.2.1

# 19054 >>>Average delay DL ELEMENT FALSE REAL TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.3.3.1

# 19055 >>>Average delay DL on F1-U ELEMENT FALSE REAL TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.3.3.2

# 19056 >>>Distribution bins for DL LIST TS 28.552 [28]
packet delay on F1-U Sec 5.1.3.3.5

# 19057 >>>>Distribution bin item STRUCTURE

# 19058 >>>>>DL packet delay ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
bin value Sec 5.1.3.3.5

# 19059 >>>>>Number of ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
samples Sec 5.1.3.3.5

# 19071 PDCP data volume Measurement STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.3.6

# 19072 >List of QoS levels LIST TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.3.6

# 19073 >>QoS level item STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.3.6

# 19074 >>>CHOICE QoS level STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.3.6

# 19075 >>>>5QI ELEMENT TRUE 5QI IE in TS
38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.28

# 19076 >>>>S-NSSAI STRUCTURE S-NSSAI IE in TS 38.473 [19]
Clause 9.3.1.38

# 19077 >>>>>SST ELEMENT TRUE SST IE in TS
38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.38

# 19078 >>>>>SD ELEMENT FALSE SD IE in TS
38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.38

# 19079 >>>DL PDCP PDU Data ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
Volume Sec 5.1.3.6.1

# 19080 >>>DL PDCP SDU Data ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
Volume Sec 5.1.3.6.2 8.1.1.14 gNB DU Measurements The following RAN Parameters are associated with gNB DU measurements. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key Flag RAN Parameter Semantics Parameter Parameter Definition Description ID Value Type

# 20001 Packet delay measurements STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.3.3 and 5.1.1.1

# 20002 >List of QoS levels LIST TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.3.3 and 5.1.1.1

# 20003 >>QoS level item STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.3.3 and 5.1.1.1

# 20004 >>>CHOICE QoS level STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.3.3 and 5.1.1.1

# 20005 >>>>5QI ELEMENT TRUE 5QI IE in TS
38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.28

# 20006 >>>>S-NSSAI STRUCTURE S-NSSAI IE in TS 38.473 [19]
Clause 9.3.1.38

# 20007 >>>>>SST ELEMENT TRUE SST IE in TS
38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.38

# 20008 >>>>>SD ELEMENT FALSE SD IE in TS
38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.38

# 20009 >>>Average delay DL air- ELEMENT FALSE REAL TS 28.552 [28]
interface Sec 5.1.1.1

# 20010 >>>Average delay UL on over- ELEMENT FALSE REAL TS 28.552 [28]
the-air interface Sec 5.1.1.1

# 20011 >>>Average RLC packet delay ELEMENT FALSE REAL TS 28.552 [28]
in the UL Sec 5.1.1.1.4

# 20012 >>>Distribution bins for DL air- LIST TS 28.552 [28]
interface delay Sec 5.1.1.1.2

# 20013 >>>>Distribution bin item STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.1.2

# 20014 >>>>>Bin value ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.1.2

# 20015 >>>>>Number of ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
samples Sec 5.1.1.1.2

# 20018 List of NR cells LIST Cell-specific
measurements as in TS 28.552 [28] Sec 5.1.1.2

# 20019 >NR Cell Item STRUCTURE 8.1.1.1

# 20020 >>NR CGI ELEMENT TRUE NR CGI IE in TS
38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.2.7

# 20021 >>Radio Resource Utilization STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.2

# 20022 >>>DL Total PRB Usage ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.2.1

# 20023 >>>UL Total PRB Usage ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.2.2

# 20024 >>>Distribution bins for DL LIST TS 28.552 [28]
Total PRB Usage Sec 5.1.1.2.3

# 20025 >>>>Distribution bin item STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.2.3

# 20026 >>>>>Bin value ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.2.3

# 20027 >>>>>Number of ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
samples Sec 5.1.1.2.3

# 20028 >>>Distribution bins for UL LIST TS 28.552 [28]
Total PRB Usage Sec 5.1.1.2.4

# 20029 >>>>Distribution bin item STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.2.4

# 20030 >>>>>Bin value ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.2.4

# 20031 >>>>>Number of ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
samples Sec 5.1.1.2.4

# 20032 >>>List of QoS levels LIST TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.2.5

# 20033 >>>>QoS level item STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.2.5

# 20034 >>>>>CHOICE QoS STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
level Sec 5.1.1.2.5

# 20035 >>>>>>5QI ELEMENT TRUE 5QI IE in TS
38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.28

# 20036 >>>>>>S-NSSAI STRUCTURE S-NSSAI IE in TS 38.473 [19]
Clause 9.3.1.38

# 20037 >>>>>>>SST ELEMENT TRUE SST IE in TS
38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.38

# 20038 >>>>>>>SD ELEMENT FALSE SD IE in TS
38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.38

# 20039 >>>>>DL PRB used for ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
data traffic Sec 5.1.1.2.5

# 20040 >>>>>UL PRB used for ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
data traffic Sec 5.1.1.2.5

# 20041 >>>DL total available PRB ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.2.6

# 20042 >>>UL total available PRB ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.2.8

# 20051 UE Throughput Measurements STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.3

# 20052 >List of QoS levels LIST TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.3

# 20053 >>QoS level item STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.3

# 20054 >>>CHOICE QoS level STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.3

# 20055 >>>>5QI ELEMENT TRUE 5QI IE in TS
38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.28

# 20056 >>>>S-NSSAI STRUCTURE S-NSSAI IE in TS 38.473 [19]
Clause 9.3.1.38

# 20057 >>>>>SST ELEMENT TRUE SST IE in TS
38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.38

# 20058 >>>>>SD ELEMENT FALSE SD IE in TS
38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.38

# 20059 >>Average DL UE throughput ELEMENT FALSE REAL TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.3.1

# 20060 >>Average UL UE throughput ELEMENT FALSE REAL TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.3.3

# 20061 >>Percentage of unrestricted DL ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
UE throughput Sec 5.1.1.3.5

# 20062 >>Percentage of unrestricted UL ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
UE throughput Sec 5.1.1.3.6

# 20063 >>Distribution bins for DL UE LIST TS 28.552 [28]
throughput Sec 5.1.1.3.2

# 20064 >>>Distribution bin item STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.3.2

# 20065 >>>>Bin value ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.3.2

# 20066 >>>>Number of samples ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.3.2

# 20067 >>Distribution bins for UL UE LIST TS 28.552 [28]
throughput Sec 5.1.1.3.4

# 20068 >>>Distribution bin item STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.3.4

# 20069 >>>>Bin value ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.3.4

# 20070 >>>>Number of samples ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.3.4

# 20098 List of NR Cells LIST Cell-specific
measurements as in TS 28.552 [28] Sec 5.1.1.7

# 20099 >NR Cell Item STRUCTURE 8.1.1.1

# 20100 >>NR CGI ELEMENT TRUE NR CGI IE in TS
38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.2.7

# 20101 >>TB-related Measurements STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.7

# 20102 >>>DL initial TBs STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.7

# 20103 >>>>Total number of DL ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
initial TBs Sec 5.1.1.7.1

# 20104 >>>>Total number of DL ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
QPSK initial TBs Sec 5.1.1.7.1

# 20105 >>>>Total number of DL ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
16QAM initial TBs Sec 5.1.1.7.1

# 20106 >>>>Total number of DL ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
64QAM initial TBs Sec 5.1.1.7.1

# 20107 >>>UL initial TBs STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.7.6

# 20108 >>>>Total number of UL ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
initial TBs Sec 5.1.1.7.6

# 20109 >>>>Total number of UL ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
QPSK initial TBs Sec 5.1.1.7.6

# 20110 >>>>Total number of UL ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
16QAM initial TBs Sec 5.1.1.7.6

# 20111 >>>>Total number of UL ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
64QAM initial TBs Sec 5.1.1.7.6

# 20121 >>>Initial error number of DL STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
TBs Sec 5.1.1.7.2

# 20122 >>>>Error number of DL ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
initial TBs Sec 5.1.1.7.2

# 20123 >>>>Error number of DL ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
QPSK initial TBs Sec 5.1.1.7.2

# 20124 >>>>Error number of DL ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
16QAM initial TBs Sec 5.1.1.7.2

# 20125 >>>>Error number of DL ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
64QAM initial TBs Sec 5.1.1.7.2

# 20126 >>>Initial error number of UL STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
TBs Sec 5.1.1.7.7

# 20127 >>>>Error number of UL ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
initial TBs Sec 5.1.1.7.7

# 20128 >>>>Error number of UL ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
QPSK initial TBs Sec 5.1.1.7.7

# 20129 >>>>Error number of UL ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
16QAM initial TBs Sec 5.1.1.7.7

# 20130 >>>>Error number of UL ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
64QAM initial TBs Sec 5.1.1.7.7

# 20131 >>>DL total TBs STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.7.3

# 20132 >>>>Total number of DL ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
TBs Sec 5.1.1.7.3

# 20133 >>>>Total number of DL ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
QPSK TBs Sec 5.1.1.7.3

# 20134 >>>>Total number of DL ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
16QAM TBs Sec 5.1.1.7.3

# 20135 >>>>Total number of DL ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
64QAM TBs Sec 5.1.1.7.3

# 20136 >>>UL total TBs STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.7.8

# 20137 >>>>Total number of UL ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
TBs Sec 5.1.1.7.8

# 20138 >>>>Total number of UL ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
QPSK TBs Sec 5.1.1.7.8

# 20139 >>>>Total number of UL ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
16QAM TBs Sec 5.1.1.7.8

# 20140 >>>>Total number of UL ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
64QAM TBs Sec 5.1.1.7.8

# 20141 >>>Total error number of DL STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
TBs Sec 5.1.1.7.3

# 20142 >>>>Total error number of ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
DL TBs Sec 5.1.1.7.3

# 20143 >>>>Total error number of ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
DL QPSK TBs Sec 5.1.1.7.3

# 20144 >>>>Total error number of ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
DL 16QAM TBs Sec 5.1.1.7.3

# 20145 >>>>Total error number of ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
DL 64QAM TBs Sec 5.1.1.7.3

# 20146 >>>Total error number of UL STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
TBs Sec 5.1.1.7.9

# 20147 >>>>Total error number of ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
UL TBs Sec 5.1.1.7.9

# 20148 >>>>Total error number of ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
UL QPSK TBs Sec 5.1.1.7.9

# 20149 >>>>Total error number of ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
UL 16QAM TBs Sec 5.1.1.7.9

# 20150 >>>>Total error number of ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
UL 64QAM TBs Sec 5.1.1.7.9

# 20151 >>>Residual error number of STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
DL TBs Sec

# 20152 >>>>Residual error number ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
of DL TBs Sec 5.1.1.7.5

# 20153 >>>>Residual error number ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
of DL QPSK TBs Sec 5.1.1.7.5

# 20154 >>>>Residual error number ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
of DL 16QAM TBs Sec 5.1.1.7.5

# 20155 >>>>Residual error number ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
of DL 64QAM TBs Sec 5.1.1.7.5

# 20156 >>>Residual error number of STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
UL TBs Sec 5.1.1.7.10

# 20157 >>>>Residual error number ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
of UL TBs Sec 5.1.1.7.10

# 20158 >>>>Residual error number ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
of UL QPSK TBs Sec 5.1.1.7.10

# 20159 >>>>Total error number of ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
UL 16QAM TBs Sec 5.1.1.7.10

# 20160 >>>>Total error number of ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
UL 64QAM TBs Sec 5.1.1.7.10

# 20201 >>CQI-related measurements STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.11

# 20202 >>>Distribution bins of CQI LIST TS 28.552 [28]
values Sec 5.1.1.11

# 20203 >>>>Distribution bin item STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.11

# 20204 >>>>>Bin value ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.11

# 20205 >>>>>Number of ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
samples Sec 5.1.1.11

# 20206 >>MCS-related measurements STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.12

# 20207 >>>Distribution bins of PDSCH LIST TS 28.552 [28]
MCS values Sec 5.1.1.12.1

# 20208 >>>>Distribution bin item STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.12.1

# 20209 >>>>>Bin value ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.12.1

# 20210 >>>>>Number of ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
samples Sec 5.1.1.12.1

# 20211 >>>Distribution bins of PUSCH LIST TS 28.552 [28]
MCS values Sec 5.1.1.12.2

# 20212 >>>>Distribution bin item STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.12.2

# 20213 >>>>>Bin value ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.12.2

# 20214 >>>>>Number of ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
samples Sec 5.1.1.12.2

# 20251 >>Number of active UE STRUCTURE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
measurements Sec 5.1.1.23

# 20252 >>>List of QoS levels LIST TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.23

# 20253 >>>>QoS level item STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.1.23

# 20254 >>>>>CHOICE QoS STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
level Sec 5.1.1.23

# 20255 >>>>>>5QI ELEMENT TRUE 5QI IE in TS
38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.28

# 20256 >>>>>>S-NSSAI STRUCTURE S-NSSAI IE in TS 38.473 [19]
Clause 9.3.1.38

# 20257 >>>>>>>SST ELEMENT TRUE SST IE in TS
38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.38

# 20258 >>>>>>>SD ELEMENT FALSE SD IE in TS
38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.38

# 20259 >>>>>Number of active ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
UEs in the DL Sec 5.1.1.23.1

# 20260 >>>>>Maximum number ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
of active UEs in the DL Sec 5.1.1.23.2

# 20261 >>>>>Number of active ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
UEs in the UL Sec 5.1.1.23.3

# 20262 >>>>>Maximum number ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
of active UEs in the UL Sec 5.1.1.23.4

# 20271 Packet level measurements STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.3

# 20272 >List of QoS levels LIST TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.3

# 20273 >>QoS level item STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.3

# 20274 >>>CHOICE QoS level STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.3

# 20275 >>>>5QI ELEMENT TRUE 5QI IE in TS
38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.28

# 20276 >>>>S-NSSAI STRUCTURE S-NSSAI IE in TS 38.473 [19]
Clause 9.3.1.38

# 20277 >>>>>SST ELEMENT TRUE SST IE in TS
38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.38

# 20278 >>>>>SD ELEMENT FALSE SD IE in TS
38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.38

# 20279 >>>DL F1-U Packet Loss Rate ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.3.1.3

# 20280 >>>DL RLC SDU Packet Drop ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
Rate Sec 5.1.3.2.2

# 20281 >>>Average delay DL in gNB- ELEMENT FALSE REAL TS 28.552 [28]
DU Sec 5.1.3.3.3

# 20282 >>>Distribution bins of DL LIST TS 28.552 [28]
delay Sec 5.1.3.3.6

# 20283 >>>>Distribution bin item STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.3.3.6

# 20284 >>>>>Bin value ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.3.3.6

# 20285 >>>>>Number of ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
samples Sec 5.1.1.3.6

# 20286 >>>Average IP latency DL ELEMENT FALSE REAL TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.3.4.2

# 20287 >>>Distribution bins of DL IP LIST TS 28.552 [28]
latency Sec 5.1.3.4.3

# 20288 >>>>Distribution bin item STRUCTURE TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.3.4.3

# 20289 >>>>>Bin value ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
Sec 5.1.3.4.3

# 20290 >>>>>Number of ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
samples Sec 5.1.3.4.3

# 20291 Number of UE Context release ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER TS 28.552 [28]
requested from gNB-DU Sec 5.1.3.5.1 8.1.1.15 gNB Measurements The following RAN Parameters are associated with the gNB measurements. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key Flag RAN Semantics Parameter Parameter Parameter Description ID Value Type Definition 20501 gNB CU-CP Measurements STRUCTURE 8.1.1.12 For both UE- and E2 node level measurements 20502 gNB CU-UP Measurements STRUCTURE 8.1.1.13 For both UE- and E2 node level measurements 20503 gNB DU Measurements STRUCTURE 8.1.1.14 For both UE- and E2 node level measurements

#### 8.1.1.16 PDU Session
The following RAN Parameters are associated with PDU session. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key Flag RAN Semantics Parameter Parameter Parameter Description ID Value Type Definition

# 21001 S-NSSAI STRUCTURE S-NSSAI IE in TS 38.473
[19] Clause 9.3.1.38

# 21002 >SST ELEMENT TRUE SST IE in TS
38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.38

# 21003 >SD ELEMENT FALSE SD IE in TS
38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.38

# 21004 PDU Session Aggregate Maximum Bit Rate STRUCTURE PDU Session
Aggregate Maximum Bit Rate IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.102

# 21005 >PDU Session Aggregate Maximum Bit ELEMENT FALSE PDU Session
Rate Downlink Aggregate Maximum Bit Rate Downlink IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.102

# 21006 >PDU Session Aggregate Maximum Bit ELEMENT FALSE PDU Session
Rate Uplink Aggregate Maximum Bit Rate Uplink IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.102

# 21008 >Data Forwarding Not Possible ELEMENT FALSE Data
Forwarding Not Possible IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.63

# 21009 >PDU Session Type ELEMENT FALSE PDU Session
Type IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.52

# 21010 >Network Instance ELEMENT FALSE Network
Instance IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.113

# 21011 >Direct Forwarding Path Availability ELEMENT FALSE Direct
Forwarding Path Availability IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.120

# 21012 >Redundant Common Network Instance ELEMENT FALSE Redundant
Common Network Instance IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.120

# 21013 >Redundant PDU Session Information ELEMENT FALSE Redundant
PDU Session Information IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.136

#### 8.1.1.17 UE Context Information
RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key RAN Semantics Description Parameter Parameter Flag Paramete ID Value Type r Definition

# 21501 Master Node STRUCTURE 8.1.1.11

# 21502 >gNB Measurements STRUCTURE 8.1.1.15

# 21503 CHOICE Primary Cell of STRUCTURE
MCG

# 21504 >NR Cell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.1 For NR SpCell

# 21505 >E-UTRA Cell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.2 For E-UTRA PCell

# 21506 List of Secondary Cells of LIST Scell To Be Setup List IE in TS
MCG 38.473 [19] clause 9.2.2.1

# 21507 >SCell Item STRUCTURE Scell To Be Setup Item IEs IE
in TS 38.473 [19] clause 9.2.2.1

# 21508 >>CHOICE SCell STRUCTURE

# 21509 >>>NR Cell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.1 For NR SCell

# 21510 >>>E-UTRA Cell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.2 For E-UTRA SCell

# 21511 Secondary Node STRUCTURE 8.1.1.11

# 21512 >gNB Measurements STRUCTURE 8.1.1.15

# 21513 CHOICE Primary Cell of STRUCTURE PSCell IE as defined in TS
SCG 38.331 [22] or the structure defined in TS 38.473 [19] clause 9.2.2.1

# 21514 >NR Cell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.1

# 21515 >E-UTRA Cell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.2

# 21516 List of Secondary Cells of LIST Scell To Be Setup List IE in TS
SCG 38.473 [19] clause 9.2.2.1

# 21517 >SCell Item STRUCTURE Scell To Be Setup Item IEs IE
in TS 38.473 [19] clause 9.2.2.1

# 21518 >>CHOICE SCell STRUCTURE

# 21519 >>>NR Cell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.1

# 21520 >>>E-UTRA Cell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.2

# 21521 List of PDU Sessions LIST PDU Session Resources To Be Setup List IE in TS 38.423
[15] Clause 9.2.1.1

# 21522 >PDU Session Item STRUCTURE PDU Session Resources To Be Setup Item IE in TS 38.423
[15] Clause 9.2.1.1

# 21543 >>PDU Session ID ELEMENT TRUE PDU
Session ID IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.50

# 21523 >>PDU Session STRUCTURE 8.1.1.16

# 21524 >>List of DRBs LIST DRB to Be Setup List IE in TS
38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.1

# 21525 >>>DRB Item STRUCTURE

# 21546 >>>>DRB ID ELEMENT TRUE DRB ID IE
in TS 37.483 [21] clause 9.3.1.16

# 21547 >>>>DRB STRUCTURE 8.1.1.5

# 21526 >>>>List of QoS LIST QoS Flows Information To Be
flows mapped to Setup IE in TS 37.483 [21] DRB Clause 9.3.3.2

# 21527 >>>>>QoS STRUCTURE
Flow Item

# 21548 >>>>>>Qo ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow

# S Flow Identifier
Identifier IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.51

# 21549 >>>>>>Qo STRUCTURE 8.1.1.6

# S Flow

# 21528 List of Neighbour cells LIST measResultNeighCells IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 21529 >Neighbour Cell Item STRUCTURE

# 21530 >>CHOICE Neighbour STRUCTURE
Cell

# 21531 >>>NR Cell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.1 MeasResultNR IE in TS
38.331 [22]

# 21532 >>>E-UTRA Cell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.2 MeasResultEUTRA IE in TS
38.331 [22]

# 21540 UE Context Container ELEMENT FALSE OCTET The RETRIEVE UE CONTEXT
STRING RESPONSE message content in TS 38.423 [15] clause 9.1.1.9.

# 21541 SRS Configuration ELEMENT FALSE OCTET SRS-Config IE defined in TS
STRING 38.331 [22].

# 21600 CSI Measurement ELEMENT FALSE OCTET CSI-MeasConfig IE defined in Configuration STRING TS 38.331 [22]

# 21601 Measurement Gap ELEMENT FALSE OCTET MeasGapConfig IE defined in Configuration STRING TS 38.331 [22]

# 21602 List of BWP Downlink LIST The list of all DL BWPs
assigned to a specific UE

# 21603 >BWP Downlink Item STRUCTURE BWP-Downlink IE in TS
38.331 [22]

# 21604 >>BWP ID ELEMENT FALSE BWP-Id IE value of 0 represents the DL
in TS Initial BWP 38.331 [22]

# 21605 >>BWP Downlink Common ELEMENT FALSE OCTET BWP-DownlinkCommon IE in STRING TS 38.331 [22]

# 21606 >>BWP Downlink Dedicated ELEMENT FALSE OCTET BWP-DownlinkDedicated IE in STRING TS 38.331 [22]

# 21607 List of active RLC Bearers LIST The list of active RLC bearers
of a specific UE

# 21608 >RLC Bearer Item STRUCTURE

# 21609 >>Logical Channel ID ELEMENT FALSE LogicalCh
annelIdent ity IE in TS 38.331 [22] clause 6

# 21610 >>CHOICE Served Radio
Bearer

# 21611 >>>SRB ID ELEMENT FALSE SRB- Identity IE
in TS 38.331 [22] clause 6

# 21612 >>>DRB ID ELEMENT FALSE DRB- Identity IE
in TS 38.331 [22] clause 6

# 21613 PDSCH Serving Cell ELEMENT FALSE OCTET PDSCH-ServingCellConfig IE
Configuration STRING in TS 38.331 [22]

# 21614 DRX Configuration ELEMENT FALSE OCTET DRX-Config IE in TS 38.331
STRING [22]

# 21615 UE Capabilities ELEMENT FALSE OCTET UE-CapabilityRAT- STRING ContainerList IE in TS 38.331
[22] 8.1.1.18 eNB Measurements Editor’s Note: FFS

### 8.1.2 RAN Parameters for Call Process Breakpoint

#### 8.1.2.0 Call process type IDs
The RAN Parameters for the Event Trigger style 2 are defined based on the following call process type. Call Process Type ID Call Process Type RAN Parameters

# 3 Mobility Management Defined in Clause 8.1.2.3

# 4 Multi-RAT Dual Connectivity Management Defined in Clause 8.1.2.4

# 5 Radio Resource Control Management Defined in Clause 8.1.2.5

# 6 PDU Session Management Defined in Clause 8.1.2.6

#### 8.1.2.1 UE Context Management
The RAN Parameters for the call process type of “UE Context Management” are defined as follows.

##### 8.1.2.1.1 UE Context Setup
RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key RAN Semantics Parameter Parameter Flag Parameter Description xID Value Type Definition

# 25001 Primary Cell ID STRUCTURE This is for the primary serving cell
of the UE. The structuring of this parameter is based on Target Cell Global ID IE in TS 38.423 [15] clause 9.2.3.25

# 25002 >CHOICE Primary Cell STRUCTURE The primary cell
could either be an NR primary cell or an LTE primary cell. The structuring is based onTarget Cell IE in TS 38.423 [15] clause 9.2.3.25

# 25003 >>NR SpCell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.1 NR Cell IE in TS
38.423 [15] clause 9.2.3.25 or SpCell ID IE in TS 38.473 [19] clause 9.2.2.1

# 25063 >>E-UTRA PCell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.2 E-UTRA Cell IE in TS 38.423 [15]
clause 9.2.3.25

# 25004 List of secondary cells to be setup LIST Scell To Be Setup
List IE in TS 38.473 [19] clause 9.2.2.1

# 25005 >Secondary cell to be setup Item STRUCTURE Scell To Be Setup
Item IEs IE in TS 38.473 [19] clause 9.2.2.1

# 25006 >>CHOICE Secondary cell STRUCTURE Scell To Be Setup
Item IEs IE in TS 38.473 [19] clause 9.2.2.1

# 25007 >>>NR SCell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.1

# 25008 >>>E-UTRA SCell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.2

# 25009 >>>Scell UL Configured ELEMENT FALSE Cell UL
Configured IE in TS 38.473 [19] clause 9.3.1.33

# 25010 Number of secondary cells to be ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Count of list of setup (1..32) secondary cells to be
setup

# 25011 List of DRBs for setup LIST DRB to Be Setup
List IE in TS 38.473 [19] clause 9.2.2.1

# 25012 >DRB item for setup STRUCTURE DRB to Be Setup
Item IE in TS 38.473 [19] clause 9.2.2.1

# 25033 >>DRB ID ELEMENT TRUE DRB ID IE in TS 37.483 [21]
clause 9.3.1.16

# 25034 >>CHOICE DRB Type STRUCTURE The individual DRB
could either be an NG-RAN DRB or a E-UTRA DRB

# 25035 >>>NG-RAN DRB STRUCTURE 8.1.1.5

# 25036 >>>E-UTRA DRB STRUCTURE 8.1.1.9

# 25013 >List of QoS flows for setup LIST This is the list of QoS flows
multiplexed to an NG-RAN DRB. The structuring is based on QoS Flow List IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.12

# 25014 >>QoS flow Item STRUCTURE QoS Flow Item IE in TS 37.483 [21]
Clause 9.3.1.12

# 25045 >>>QoS flow Identifier ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow
Identifier IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.24

# 25046 >>>QoS flow STRUCTURE 8.1.1.6

# 25015 List of PDU sessions for setup LIST PDU Session
Resource Setup Request List IE in TS 38.413 Clause 9.2.1.1

# 25016 >PDU Session Item STRUCTURE PDU Session
Resource Setup Item IE in TS 38.413 Clause 9.2.1.1

# 25057 >>PDU Session ID ELEMENT TRUE PDU Session
ID IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.50

# 25058 >>PDU Session STRUCTURE 8.1.1.16

# 25017 >>List of QoS flows for setup LIST QoS Flow Setup
Request Item IE in TS 38.413 Clause 9.3.4.1

# 25018 >>>QoS flow Item STRUCTURE QoS Flow Setup
Request Item IE in TS 38.413 Clause 9.3.4.1

# 25019 >>>>QoS flow Identifier ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow
Identifier IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.51

# 25020 >>>>QoS flow STRUCTURE 8.1.1.6

# 25021 Number of DRBs for setup ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Count of list of DRBs
(0..64) for setup

# 25022 UE Aggregate Maximum Bit Rate STRUCTURE UE Aggregate
Maximum Bit Rate IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.12

# 25023 >UE Aggregate Maximum Bit Rate ELEMENT FALSE UE Aggregate
Downlink Maximum Bit Rate Downlink IE in TS 36.423 [17] clause 9.2.12

# 25024 >UE Aggregate Maximum Bit Rate ELEMENT FALSE UE Aggregate
Uplink Maximum Bit Rate Uplink IE in TS 36.423 [17] clause 9.2.12

##### 8.1.2.1.2 UE Context Modification
RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key RAN Semantics Parameter Parameter Flag Parameter Description ID Value Type Definition

# 25101 Primary Cell ID STRUCTURE This is for the primary serving cell
of the UE. The structuring of this parameter is based on Target Cell Global ID IE in TS 38.423 [15] clause 9.2.3.25

# 25102 >CHOICE Primary Cell STRUCTURE The primary cell
could either be an NR primary cell or an LTE primary cell. The structuring is based on Target Cell IE in TS 38.423 [15] clause 9.2.3.25

# 25103 >>NR SpCell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.1 NR IE in TS 38.423
[15] clause 9.2.3.25 or SpCell ID IE in TS 38.473 [19] clause 9.2.2.1

# 25104 >>E-UTRA PCell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.2 E-UTRA IE in TS
38.423 [15] clause 9.2.3.25

# 25105 List of secondary cells to be setup LIST Scell To Be Setup
List IE in TS 38.473 [19] clause 9.2.2.1

# 25106 >Secondary cell to be setup Item STRUCTURE Scell To Be Setup
Item IEs IE in TS 38.473 [19] clause 9.2.2.1

# 25107 >>CHOICE Secondary cell STRUCTURE Scell To Be Setup
Item IEs IE in TS 38.473 [19] clause 9.2.2.1

# 25108 >>>NR SCell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.1

# 25109 >>>E-UTRA SCell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.2

# 25110 >>>Scell UL Configured ELEMENT FALSE Cell UL
Configured IE in TS 38.473 [19] [Q] clause 9.3.1.33

# 25111 Number of secondary cells to be ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Count of list of setup (1..32) secondary cells to be
setup

# 25112 List of Scells to be removed LIST SCell To Be
Removed List IE in TS 38.473 [19] clause 9.2.2.7

# 25113 >Scell to be removed Item STRUCTURE SCell to Be
Removed Item IEs IE in TS 38.473 [19] clause 9.2.2.7

# 25114 >>CHOICE Secondary cell STRUCTURE A UE can have either
NR Cells as secondary cells or E- UTRA cells as secondary cells.

# 25115 >>>NR SCell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.1

# 25116 >>>E-UTRA SCell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.2

# 25117 >>>Scell UL Configured ELEMENT FALSE Cell UL
Configured IE in TS 38.473 [19] [Q] clause 9.3.1.33

# 25118 Number of secondary cells to be ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Count of list of removed (1..32) secondary cells to be
removed

# 25119 List of DRBs for setup LIST DRB to Be Setup List
IE in TS 38.473 [19] clause 9.2.2.1

# 25120 >DRB item for setup STRUCTURE DRB to Be Setup
Item IE in TS 38.473 [19] clause 9.2.2.1

# 25161 >>DRB ID ELEMENT TRUE DRB ID IE in TS 37.483 [21]
clause 9.3.1.16

# 25162 >>CHOICE DRB Type STRUCTURE DRB could either be
an NG-RAN DRB or a E-UTRA DRB

# 25163 >>>NG-RAN DRB STRUCTURE 8.1.1.5

# 25164 >>>E-UTRA DRB STRUCTURE 8.1.1.9

# 25121 >>List of QoS flows for setup LIST This is the list of QoS flows
multiplexed to an NG-RAN DRB for setup. The structuring is based on QoS Flow List IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.12

# 25122 >>>QoS flow Item STRUCTURE QoS Flow Item IE in TS 37.483 [21]
Clause 9.3.1.12

# 25166 >>>>QoS flow Identifier ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow
Identifier IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.24

# 25167 >>>>QoS flow STRUCTURE 8.1.1.6

# 25123 List of PDU sessions for setup LIST PDU Session
Resource Setup Request List IE in TS 38.413 Clause 9.2.1.1

# 25124 >PDU Session Item STRUCTURE PDU Session
Resource Setup Item IE in TS 38.413 Clause 9.2.1.1

# 25175 >>PDU Session ID ELEMENT TRUE PDU Session
ID IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.50

# 25176 >>PDU Session STRUCTURE 8.1.1.16

# 25125 >>List of QoS flows for setup LIST QoS Flow Setup
Request Item IE in TS 38.413 Clause 9.3.4.1

# 25126 >>>QoS flow Item STRUCTURE QoS Flow Setup
Request Item IE in TS 38.413 Clause 9.3.4.1

# 25177 >>>>QoS flow Identifier ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow
Identifier IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.51

# 25178 >>>>QoS flow STRUCTURE 8.1.1.6

# 25127 List of DRBs to be modified LIST DRB to Be Setup
List IE in TS 38.473 [19] clause 9.2.2.1

# 25128 >DRB item for modification STRUCTURE 8.1.1.5 DRB to Be Setup
Item IE in TS 38.473 [19] clause 9.2.2.1

# 25129 >>List of QoS flows remapped LIST This is the list of QoS flows remapped
to an NG-RAN DRB. The structuring is based on QoS Flow List IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.12

# 25130 >>>QoS flow Item STRUCTURE QoS Flow Item IE in TS 37.483 [21]
Clause 9.3.1.12

# 25181 >>>>QoS flow Identifier ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow
Identifier IE in TS 37.483 [12] Clause 9.3.1.24

# 25182 >>>>QoS flow STRUCTURE 8.1.1.6

# 25131 List of PDU sessions for LIST For modification of modification PDU sessions. The
structuring is based on PDU Session Resource Modify Request List IE in TS

## 38.413 Clause
9.2.1.5

# 25132 >PDU Session Item STRUCTURE PDU Session
Resource Modify Request Item IE in TS 38.413 Clause 9.2.1.5

# 25183 >>PDU Session ID ELEMENT TRUE PDU Session
ID IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.50

# 25184 >>PDU Session STRUCTURE 8.1.1.16

# 25133 >>List of QoS flows remapped LIST Modified list of QoS
flows within the PDU Session. Structuring is based on QoS Flow Add or Modify Request List IE in TS 38,413 Clause 9.3.4.3

# 25134 >>>QoS flow Item STRUCTURE QoS Flow Add or Modify Request Item
IE in TS 38.413 Clause 9.3.4.3

# 25185 >>>>QoS flow identifier ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow
Identifier IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.51

# 25186 >>>>QoS flow STRUCTURE 8.1.1.6

# 25135 Number of DRBs to be modified ELEMENT FALSE Count of list of DRBs
to be modified

# 25136 List of DRBs to be released LIST DRB To Be
Released List IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.7

# 25137 >DRB item for release STRUCTURE DRB To Be Released
Item IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.7

# 25188 >>DRB ID ELEMENT TRUE DRB ID IE in TS 37.483 [21]
clause 9.3.1.16

# 25189 >>CHOICE DRB Type STRUCTURE DRB could either be
an NG-RAN DRB or a E-UTRA DRB

# 25190 >>>NG-RAN DRB STRUCTURE 8.1.1.5

# 25191 >>>E-UTRA DRB STRUCTURE 8.1.1.9

# 25138 Number of DRBs to be released ELEMENT FALSE Count of list of DRBs
to be released

# 25139 UE Aggregate Maximum Bit Rate STRUCTURE UE Aggregate
Maximum Bit Rate IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.12

# 25140 >UE Aggregate Maximum Bit Rate ELEMENT FALSE UE Aggregate
Downlink Maximum Bit Rate Downlink IE in TS 36.423 [17] clause 9.2.12

# 25141 >UE Aggregate Maximum Bit Rate ELEMENT FALSE UE Aggregate
Uplink Maximum Bit Rate Uplink IE in TS 36.423 [17] clause 9.2.12

# 25151 Target Cell ID STRUCTURE This is for the target
cell of the UE for HO. The structuring of this parameter is based on Target Cell Global ID IE in TS 38.423 [15] clause 9.2.3.25

# 25152 >CHOICE Target Cell STRUCTURE The target cell could
either be a target NR primary cell or a target LTE primary cell. The structuring is based on Target Cell IE in TS 38.423 [15] clause 9.2.3.25

# 25153 >>Target NR SpCell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.1 NR IE in TS 38.423
[15] clause 9.2.3.25

# 25154 >>Target E-UTRA PCell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.2 E-UTRA IE in TS
38.423 [15] clause 9.2.3.25

##### 8.1.2.1.3 UE Context Release
RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key RAN Semantics Parameter Parameter Flag Parameter Description ID Value Type Definition

# 25201 List of candidate cells to be cancelled LIST Candidate Cells To Be Cancelled List
IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.4

# 25202 >Candidate cell to be cancelled Item STRUCTU Candidate Cell to RE be Cancelled Item
IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.4

# 25203 >>CHOICE Candidate cell STRUCTU Candidate Cell to RE be Cancelled Item
IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.4

# 25204 >>>NR SCell STRUCTU 8.1.1.1
RE

# 25205 >>>E-UTRA SCell STRUCTU 8.1.1.2
RE

#### 8.1.2.2 Bearer Context Management
The RAN Parameters for the call process type of “Bearer Context Management” are defined as follows.

##### 8.1.2.2.1 Bearer Context Setup
RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key Flag RAN Parameter Semantics Parameter Parameter Definition Description ID Value Type

# 26101 DRB ID ELEMENT TRUE DRB ID IE in TS 37.483
[21] clause 9.3.1.16

# 26102 CHOICE DRB Type STRUCTURE DRB could either be
an NG-RAN DRB or a E-UTRA DRB

# 26103 >NG-RAN DRB STRUCTURE 8.1.1.5

# 26104 >E-UTRA DRB STRUCTURE 8.1.1.9

# 26105 List of QoS Flows LIST This is the list of QoS
to be setup in DRB flows multiplexed to an NG-RAN DRB for setup. The structuring is based on QoS Flow List IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.12

# 26106 >QoS Flow Item STRUCTURE QoS Flow Item IE in TS 37.483 [21] clause
9.3.1.12

# 26107 >>QoS Flow ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow Identifier IE in Identifier TS 37.483 [21] clause
9.3.1.24

# 26108 >>QoS Flow STRUCTURE 8.1.1.6

# 26109 Count of list of QoS ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0..64)
Flows to be setup in DRB

# 26110 Cell Group List to STRUCTURE CellGroupList IE in Add TS 37.483 [21]
Clause 9.3.1.11

# 26111 >Cell Group Item STRUCTURE

# 26122 >>Cell Group ELEMENT TRUE cellGroup IE in TS 38.331
ID [22] Clause 6

# 26123 >>Cell Group STRUCTURE 8.1.1.7

# 26112 Logical Channel ID ELEMENT FALSE LogicalChannelIdentity IE
in TS 38.331 [22] clause 6

# 26113 Channel Access ELEMENT FALSE channelAccessPriority IE
Priority in TS 38.331 [22]

# 26114 L2 Bearer State STRUCTURE 8.1.1.8
Information

# 26115 Count of cell group ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0..4)
list to be added

##### 8.1.2.2.2 Bearer Context Modification
RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key Flag RAN Parameter Semantics Parameter Parameter Definition Description ID Value Type

# 26201 DRB ID ELEMENT TRUE DRB ID IE in TS 37.483
[21] clause 9.3.1.16

# 26202 CHOICE DRB Type STRUCTURE DRB could either be
an NG-RAN DRB or a E-UTRA DRB

# 26203 >NG-RAN DRB STRUCTURE 8.1.1.1

# 26204 >E-UTRA DRB STRUCTURE 8.1.1.2

# 26205 Logical Channel ID ELEMENT TRUE LogicalChannelIdentity
IE in TS 38.331 [22] clause 6

# 26206 CHOICE RLC- STRUCTURE RLC-Config IE in TS
Config 38.331 [22]

# 26207 >AM STRUCTURE am IE in TS 38.331
[22]

# 26208 >>UL AM RLC STRUCTURE ul-AM-RLC IE in TS
38.331 [22]

# 26209 >>>Poll ELEMENT FALSE t-PollRetransmit IE in TS
Retransmit 38.331 [22]

# 26210 >>>Max ELEMENT FALSE maxRetxThreshold IE in Retransmissi TS 38.331 [22]
on Threshold

# 26211 >>>Poll PDU ELEMENT FALSE pollPDU IE in TS 38.331
[22]

# 26212 >>>Poll Byte ELEMENT FALSE pollByte IE in TS 38.331
[22]

# 26213 >>DL AM RLC STRUCTURE dl-AM-RLC IE in TS
38.331 [22]

# 26214 >>>Reassem ELEMENT FALSE t-Reassembly IE in TS
bly 38.331 [22]

# 26215 >>>Status ELEMENT FALSE t-StatusProhibit IE in TS
Prohibit 38.331 [22]

# 26216 >UM Bi-directional STRUCTURE um-Bi-Directional IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 26217 >>UL UM RLC ELEMENT FALSE UL-UM-RLC IE in TS
38.331 [22]

# 26218 >>DL UM RLC STRUCTURE DL-UM-RLC IE in TS
38.331 [22]

# 26219 >>>Reassem ELEMENT FALSE t-Reassembly IE in TS
bly 38.331 [22]

# 26220 >UM Uni-directional STRUCTURE um-Uni-Directional-UL
UL IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 26221 >>UL UM RLC ELEMENT FALSE ul-UM-RLC IE in TS
38.331 [22]

# 26222 >UM Uni-directional ELEMENT FALSE um-Uni-Directional-DL
DL IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 26223 >DL UM RLC STRUCTURE dl-UM-RLC IE in TS
38.331 [22]

# 26224 >>Reassembly ELEMENT FALSE t-Reassembly IE in TS
38.331 [22]

# 26225 List of QoS Flows to LIST Flow Mapping
be setup in DRB Information IE in TS 37.483 [21] clause 9.3.1.26

# 26226 >QoS Flow Item STRUCTURE QoS Flow Item IE in TS 37.483 [21] clause
9.3.1.12

# 26227 >>QoS Flow ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow Identifier IE in Identifier TS 37.483 [21] clause
9.3.1.24

# 26228 >>QoS Flow STRUCTURE 8.1.1.6

# 26229 List of QoS Flows to LIST Flow Mapping
be modified in DRB Information IE in TS 37.483 [21] clause 9.3.1.26

# 26230 >QoS Flow Item STRUCTURE QoS Flow Item IE in TS 37.483 [21] clause
9.3.1.12

# 26231 >>QoS Flow ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow Identifier IE in Identifier TS 37.483 [21] clause
9.3.1.24

# 26232 >>QoS Flow STRUCTURE 8.1.1.6

# 26233 List of Cell Groups LIST Cell Group List IE in to Add TS 37.483 [21] Clause
9.3.1.11

# 26234 >Cell Group Item STRUCTURE

# 26255 >>Cell Group ID ELEMENT TRUE cellGroup IE in TS
38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 26256 >>Cell Group STRUCTURE 8.1.1.7

# 26235 List of Cell Groups LIST Cell Group List IE in To Modify/Update TS 37.483 [21] Clause
9.3.1.11

# 26236 >Cell Group Item STRUCTURE

# 26257 >>Cell Group ID ELEMENT TRUE cellGroup IE in TS
38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 26258 >>Cell Group STRUCTURE 8.1.1.7

# 26237 List of Cell Groups LIST Cell Group List IE in To Delete TS 37.483 [21] Clause
9.3.1.11

# 26238 >Cell Group Item STRUCTURE

# 26259 >>Cell Group ID ELEMENT TRUE cellGroup IE in TS
38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 26260 >>Cell Group STRUCTURE 8.1.1.7

# 26239 Logical Channel ID ELEMENT FALSE LogicalChannelIdentity
IE in TS 38.331 [22] clause 6

# 26240 Channel Access ELEMENT FALSE channelAccessPriority IE
Priority in TS 38.331 [22]

# 26241 L2 State Information STRUCTURE 8.1.1.8

# 26242 Data Report Usage LIST Data Usage Report
List List IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.44

# 26243 >Data Report Usage STRUCTURE Data Report Usage
Item Item IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.44

# 26244 >>Start ELEMENT FALSE Start timestamp IE in TS
Timestamp 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.44

# 26245 >>End ELEMENT FALSE End timestamp IE in TS
Timestamp 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.44

# 26246 >>Usage Count ELEMENT FALSE Usage count DL IE in TS
DL 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.44

# 26247 >>Usage Count ELEMENT FALSE Usage count DL IE in TS
UL 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.44

##### 8.1.2.2.3 Bearer Context Release
RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key Flag RAN Parameter Semantics Parameter Parameter Definition Description ID Value Type

# 26301 DRB ID ELEMENT TRUE DRB ID IE in TS 37.483
[21] clause 9.3.1.16

# 26302 PDCP DL Count ELEMENT FALSE PDCP DL Count IE in TS
37.483 [21] Clause 9.2.2.11

# 26303 PDCP UL Count ELEMENT FALSE PDCP UL Count IE in TS
37.483 [21] Clause 9.2.2.11

# 26304 Release Cause STRUCTURE Cause IE in TS 37.483
[21] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 26305 >CHOICE Cause STRUCTURE Cause Group IE in TS
Group 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 26306 >>Radio Network STRUCTURE Radio Network Layer
Layer IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 26307 >>>Radio ELEMENT FALSE Radio Network Layer
Network Cause IE in TS 37.483 Layer Cause [21] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 26308 >>Transport STRUCTURE Transport Layer IE in Layer TS 37.483 [21] Clause
9.3.1.2

# 26309 >>>Transport ELEMENT FALSE Transport Layer Cause
Layer Cause IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 26310 >>Protocol STRUCTURE Protocol IE in TS
37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 26311 >>>Protocol ELEMENT FALSE Protocol Cause IE in TS
Cause 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 26312 >>Miscellaneous STRUCTURE Misc IE in TS 37.483
[21] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 26313 >>>Miscellan ELEMENT FALSE Miscellaneous Cause IE
eous Cause in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.2

#### 8.1.2.3 Mobility Management
The RAN Parameters for the call process type of “Mobility Management” are defined as follows.

##### 8.1.2.3.1 Handover Preparation
RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key Flag RAN Parameter Semantics Parameter Parameter Definition Description ID Value Type

# 27101 Event AN and inter-RAT B1 STRUCTURE Connectivity and mobility thresholds Mobility Event
Thresholds IE in clause 8.1.1.10

# 27102 List of Serving cells LIST MeasResultServM
OList IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 27103 >Serving Cell Item STRUCTURE MeasResultServM

# O IE in TS 38.331
[22]

# 27104 >>Serving Cell Index ELEMENT TRUE servCellID IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 27105 >>CHOICE Serving Cell STRUCTURE MeasResultServM

# O IE in TS 38.331
[22]

# 27106 >>>NR Cell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.1

# 27107 >>>E-UTRA Cell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.2

# 27108 >>CHOICE Best STRUCTURE measResultBestN
Neighbouring Cell eighCell IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 27109 >>>NR Cell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.1

# 27110 >>>E-UTRA Cell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.2

# 27113 Primary Cell ID STRUCTURE This is for the primary serving
cell of the UE. The structuring of this parameter is based on Target Cell Global ID IE in TS 38.423 [15] clause 9.2.3.25

# 27114 >CHOICE Primary Serving STRUCTURE The primary cell
Cell could either be an NR primary cell or an LTE primary cell. The structuring is based onTarget Cell IE in TS 38.423 [15] clause 9.2.3.25

# 27115 >>NR SpCell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.1 NR IE in TS
38.423 [15] clause 9.2.3.25 or SpCell ID IE in TS 38.473 [19] clause 9.2.2.1

# 27116 >>LTE E-UTRA PCell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.2 E-UTRA IE in TS
38.423 [15] clause 9.2.3.25

# 27117 List of Secondary cells LIST SCell To Be Setup
List IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.1

# 27118 >Secondary Cell Item STRUCTURE SCell To Be Setup
Item IEs IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.1

# 27119 >>Secondary Cell Index ELEMENT FALSE SCellIndex IE in TS 38.473 [19]
Clause 9.2.2.1

# 27120 >>CHOICE Secondary Cell STRUCTURE SCell To Be Setup
Item IEs IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.1

# 27121 >>>NR Cell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.1

# 27122 >>>E-UTRA Cell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.2

# 27123 List of Neighbour cells LIST measResultNeigh
Cells IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 27124 >Neighbour Cell Item STRUCTURE measResultNeigh
Cells IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 27125 >>CHOICE Neighbour Cell STRUCTURE measResultNeigh
Cells IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 27126 >>>NR Cell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.1 MeasResultNR IE
in TS 38.331 [22]

# 27127 >>>E-UTRA Cell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.2 MeasResultEUTR

# A IE in TS 38.331
[22]

# 27128 Target Primary Cell ID STRUCTURE Target Cell Global
ID IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.25

# 27129 >CHOICE Target Cell STRUCTURE Target Cell IE in TS 38.423 [15]
Clause 9.2.3.25

# 27130 >>NR SpCell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.1 NR IE in TS
38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.25 or SpCell ID IE in TS 38.473 [19] clause 9.2.2.1

# 27131 >>LTE E-UTRA PCell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.2 E-UTRA IE in TS
38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.25

# 27132 List of Candidate Target cells LIST Candidate SpCell
for conditional HO List IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.1

# 27133 >Candidate Target cell Item STRUCTURE Candidate SpCell
Item IEs IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.1

# 27134 >>CHOICE Candidate STRUCTURE Target Cell IE in Target Cell TS 38.423 [15]
Clause 9.2.3.25

# 27135 >>>NR SpCell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.1 NR IE in TS
candidate 38.423 [15] clause 9.2.3.25 or SpCell ID IE in TS 38.473 [19] clause 9.2.2.1

# 27136 >>>LTE E-UTRA PCell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.2 E-UTRA IE in TS
candidate 38.423 [15] clause 9.2.3.25

# 27137 >>Estimated Arrival ELEMENT FALSE Estimated Arrival
Probability Probability IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.1.1.1

# 27138 List of PDU Sessions for LIST This is the list of Handover PDU sessions of
the UE that are subject to handover. The structuring is based on PDU Session Resources To Be Setup List IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.1

# 27139 >PDU Session Item STRUCTURE PDU Session
Resources To Be Setup Item IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.1

# 27140 >>PDU Session ID ELEMENT TRUE PDU Session ID
IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.18

# 27141 >>PDU Session STRUCTURE 8.1.1.16

# 27142 >>List of QoS flows in the LIST QoS Flows To Be
PDU Session Setup List IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.1

# 27143 >>>QoS Flow Item STRUCTURE QoS Flow To Be
Setup Item IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.1

# 27144 >>>>QoS Flow ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow
Identifier Identifier IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.10

# 27145 >>>>QoS Flow STRUCTURE 8.1.1.6

# 27146 >>List of DRBs for LIST This is the list of Handover DRBs
corresponding to the PDU session to be handed over. The structuring is based on DRB to Be Setup List IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.7

# 27147 >>>DRB Item for STRUCTURE DRB to Be Setup
Handover Item IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.7

# 27148 >>>>DRB ID ELEMENT TRUE DRB ID IE in TS
38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.8

# 27149 >>>>CHOICE DRB STRUCTURE
Type

# 27150 >>>>>NG-RAN STRUCTURE 8.1.1.5
DRB

# 27151 >>>>>E-UTRA STRUCTURE 8.1.1.9
DRB

# 27152 >>>>List of QoS LIST QoS Flows
flows in the DRB Information To Be Setup IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.3.2

# 27153 >>>>>QoS Flow STRUCTURE QoS Flow Item IE
Item in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.25

# 27154 >>>>>>QoS ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow
Flow Identifier IE in TS Identifier 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.24

# 27155 >>>>>>QoS STRUCTURE 8.1.1.6
Flow

# 27175 List of DRBs for Handover LIST DRB to Be Setup
List IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.1

# 27176 >DRB Item for Handover STRUCTURE DRB to Be Setup
Item IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.1

# 27177 >>DRB ID ELEMENT TRUE DRB ID IE in TS
38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.8

# 27178 >>CHOICE DRB Type STRUCTURE

# 27179 >>>NG-RAN DRB STRUCTURE 8.1.1.5

# 27180 >>>E-UTRA DRB STRUCTURE 8.1.1.9

# 27181 >>List of QoS flows in the LIST QoS Flows
DRB Information To Be Setup IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.3.2

# 27182 >>>QoS Flow Item STRUCTURE QoS Flow Item IE
in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.25

# 27183 >>>>QoS Flow ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow
Identifier Identifier IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.24

# 27184 >>>>QoS Flow STRUCTURE 8.1.1.6

##### 8.1.2.3.2 Handover Cancel
RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key Flag RAN Parameter Semantics Parameter Parameter Definition Description ID Value Type

# 27201 Event AN and inter-RAT B1 STRUCTURE Connectivity and mobility thresholds Mobility Event
Thresholds IE in clause 8.1.1.10

# 27209 List of candidate cells to be LIST Candidate Cells
cancelled list To Be Cancelled List IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.4

# 27210 >Candidate cell to be STRUCTURE Candidate Cells
cancelled item To Be Cancelled List IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.4

# 27211 >>Target cell ID STRUCTURE Target Cell ID IE
in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.4

# 27212 >>>CHOICE Target cell STRUCTURE Target Cell ID IE
ID in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.4

# 27213 >>>>NR Cell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.1

# 27214 >>>>LTE E-UTRA STRUCTURE 8.1.1.2
Cell

# 27215 Cause for canceling HO or STRUCTURE Cause IE in TS
CHO 38.423 [15] Clause 9.1.1.6

# 27216 >CHOICE Cause Group STRUCTURE Cause Group IE in TS 38.423 [15]
Clause 9.2.3.2

# 27217 >>Radio Network Layer STRUCTURE Radio Network
Layer IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.2

# 27218 >>>Radio Network ELEMENT FALSE Radio Network Layer
Layer Cause Cause IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.2

# 27219 >>Transport Layer STRUCTURE Transport Layer IE
in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.2

# 27220 >>>Transport Layer ELEMENT FALSE Transport Layer
Cause Cause IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.2

# 27221 >>Protocol STRUCTURE Protocol IE in TS
38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.2

# 27222 >>>Protocol Cause ELEMENT FALSE Protocol Cause IE in TS 38.423 [15]
Clause 9.2.3.2

# 27223 >>Misc STRUCTURE Misc IE in TS
38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.2

# 27224 >>>Miscellaneous ELEMENT FALSE Miscellaneous Cause
Cause IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.2

##### 8.1.2.3.3 Handover Resource Allocation
RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key Flag RAN Parameter Semantics Parameter Parameter Definition Description ID Value Type

# 27301 Event AN and inter-RAT B1 STRUCTURE Connectivity and mobility thresholds Mobility Event
Thresholds IE in clause 8.1.1.10

# 27302 Handover Type ELEMENT FALSE Handover Type IE in TS 38.413 [11]
Clause 9.3.1.22

# 27303 List of PDU Sessions for LIST PDU Session
Handover Resources To Be Setup List IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.1

# 27304 >PDU Session Item STRUCTURE PDU Session
Resources To Be Setup Item IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.1

# 27305 >>PDU Session ID ELEMENT TRUE PDU Session ID IE in TS 38.423 [15]
Clause 9.2.3.18

# 27306 >>PDU Session STRUCTURE 8.1.1.16

# 27307 >>List of QoS flows in the LIST QoS Flows To Be
PDU Session Setup List IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.1

# 27308 >>>QoS Flow Item LIST QoS Flow To Be
Setup Item IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.1

# 27309 >>>>QoS Flow ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow Identifier IE
Identifier in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.10

# 27310 >>>>QoS Flow STRUCTURE 8.1.1.6

# 27311 >>List of DRBs for LIST DRB to Be Setup
Handover List IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.1

# 27312 >>>DRB Item for STRUCTURE DRB to Be Setup
Handover Item IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.1

# 27313 >>>>DRB ID ELEMENT TRUE DRB ID IE in TS
38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.8

# 27314 >>>>CHOICE DRB STRUCTURE DRB to Be Setup
Type Item IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.1

# 27315 >>>>>NG-RAN STRUCTURE 8.1.1.5
DRB

# 27316 >>>>>E-UTRA STRUCTURE 8.1.1.9
DRB

# 27317 >>>>List of QoS LIST QoS Flows
flows in the DRB Information To Be Setup IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.3.2

# 27318 >>>>>QoS Flow STRUCTURE QoS Flow Item IE
Item in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.25

# 27319 >>>>>>QoS ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow Identifier IE
Flow in TS 37.483 [21] Identifier Clause 9.3.1.24

# 27320 >>>>>>QoS STRUCTURE 8.1.1.6
Flow

# 27321 List of DRBs for Handover LIST DRB to Be Setup
List IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.1

# 27322 >DRB Item for Handover STRUCTURE DRB to Be Setup
Item IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.1

# 27323 >>DRB ID ELEMENT TRUE DRB ID IE in TS
38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.8

# 27324 >>CHOICE DRB Type STRUCTURE DRB to Be Setup
Item IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.1

# 27325 >>>NG-RAN DRB STRUCTURE 8.1.1.5

# 27326 >>>E-UTRA DRB STRUCTURE 8.1.1.9

# 27327 >>List of QoS flows in the LIST QoS Flows
DRB Information To Be Setup IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.3.2

# 27328 >>>QoS Flow Item STRUCTURE QoS Flow Item IE
in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.25

# 27329 >>>>QoS Flow ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow Identifier IE
Identifier in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.24

# 27330 >>>>QoS Flow STRUCTURE 8.1.1.6

# 27331 Allowed S-NSSAI LIST Allowed S-NSSAI
IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.31

# 27332 >Allowed S-NSSAI Item STRUCTURE Allowed S-NSSAI
Item IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.31

# 27333 >>S-NSSAI STRUCTURE S-NSSAI IE in TS
38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.24

# 27334 >>>SST ELEMENT TRUE SST IE in TS 38.413
[11] Clause 9.3.1.24

# 27335 >>>SD ELEMENT FALSE SD IE in TS 38.413
[11] Clause 9.3.1.24

# 27336 Mobility Restriction List STRUCTURE Mobility
Restriction List IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.85

# 27337 >Serving PLMN ELEMENT FALSE PLMN Identity IE in TS 38.413 [11]
Clause 9.3.3.5

# 27338 >List of Equivalent PLMNs LIST Equivalent PLMNs
IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.85

# 27339 >>Equivalent PLMN Item STRUCTURE

# 27340 >>>PLMN Identity ELEMENT FALSE PLMN Identity IE in TS 38.413 [11]
Clause 9.3.3.5

# 27341 >RAT Restrictions LIST RAT Restrictions
IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.85

# 27342 >>RAT Restriction Item STRUCTURE

# 27343 >>>PLMN Identity ELEMENT FALSE PLMN Identity IE in TS 38.413 [11]
Clause 9.3.3.5

# 27344 >>>RAT Restriction ELEMENT FALSE RAT Restriction
Information Information IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.85

# 27345 >Forbidden Area Information LIST Forbidden Area
Information IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.85

# 27346 >>Forbidden Area STRUCTURE Forbidden Area
Information IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.85

# 27347 >>>PLMN Identity ELEMENT FALSE PLMN Identity IE in TS 38.413 [11]
Clause 9.3.3.5

# 27348 >>>List of Forbidden LIST Forbidden TACs
TACs IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.85

# 27349 >>>>Forbidden STRUCTURE Forbidden TACs
TAC Item IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.85

# 27350 >>>>>TAC ELEMENT FALSE TAC IE in TS 38.413
[11] Clause 9.3.3.10

# 27351 >Service Area Information LIST Service Area
Information IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.85

# 27352 >>Service Area STRUCTURE Service Area
Information IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.85

# 27353 >>>PLMN Identity ELEMENT FALSE PLMN Identity IE in TS 38.413 [11]
Clause 9.3.3.5

# 27364 >>>List of allowed LIST Allowed TACs IE
TACs in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.85

# 27365 >>>>Allowed TAC STRUCTURE Allowed TACs IE
Item in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.85

# 27366 >>>>>TAC ELEMENT FALSE TAC IE in TS 38.413
[11] Clause 9.3.3.10

# 27367 >>>List of Not allowed LIST Not Allowed TACs
TACs IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.85

# 27368 >>>>Not Allowed STRUCTURE Not Allowed TACs
TAC Item IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.85

# 27369 >>>>>TAC ELEMENT FALSE TAC IE in TS 38.413
[11] Clause 9.3.3.10

#### 8.1.2.4 Multi-RAT Dual Connectivity Management
The RAN Parameters for the call process type of “Multi-RAT Dual Connectivity Management” are defined as follows.

##### 8.1.2.4.1 SN Addition
RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key RAN Parameter Semantics Parameter Parameter Flag Definition Description ID Value Type

# 28101 Event AN and inter-RAT B1 mobility STRUCTURE Connectivity and thresholds Mobility Event
Thresholds IE in clause 8.1.1.10

# 28102 Secondary Node STRUCTURE 8.1.1.11

# 28103 CHOICE PDCP Change Indication STRUCTURE PDCP Change
Indication IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.74

# 28104 >From S-NG-RAN Node STRUCTURE From S-NG- RAN Node IE
in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.74

# 28105 >>Indication from S-NG-RAN node to ELEMENT FALSE Indication from M-NG-RAN node S-NG-RAN node
to M-NG-RAN node IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.74

# 28106 >From M-NG-RAN Node STRUCTURE From M-NG- RAN Node IE
in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.74

# 28107 >>Indication from M-NG-RAN node to ELEMENT FALSE Indication from S-NG-RAN node M-NG-RAN node
to S-NG-RAN node IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.74

# 28108 Secondary Node UE Aggregate Maximum STRUCTURE UE Aggregate
Bit Rate Maximum Bit Rate IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.12

# 28109 >UE Aggregate Maximum Bit Rate ELEMENT FALSE UE Aggregate
Downlink Maximum Bit Rate Downlink IE in TS 36.423 [17] clause 9.2.12

# 28110 >UE Aggregate Maximum Bit Rate Uplink ELEMENT FALSE UE Aggregate
Maximum Bit Rate Uplink IE in TS 36.423 [17] clause 9.2.12

# 28111 List of PDU sessions to be added LIST PDU Session
Resources To Be Setup List IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.1

# 28112 >PDU Session Item STRUCTURE PDU Session
Resources To Be Setup Item IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.1

# 28113 >>PDU Session ID ELEMENT TRUE PDU Session ID
IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.18

# 28114 >>PDU Session STRUCTURE 8.1.1.16

# 28115 >>CHOICE PDU Session Setup Info STRUCTURE PDU Session
Resource Setup Info – SN terminated IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.1.2.5

# 28116 >>>SN terminated PDU session STRUCTURE PDU Session
Resource Setup Info – SN terminated IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.1.2.5

# 28118 >>>>List of QoS flows to be LIST QoS Flows To setup Be Setup List
IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.1

# 28119 >>>>>QoS flow Item to be STRUCTURE QoS Flow To setup Be Setup Item
IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.1

# 28120 >>>>>>QoS Flow ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow
Identifier Identifier IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.10

# 28121 >>>>>>QoS flow STRUCTURE 8.1.1.6

# 28122 >>>>Count of QoS flows to be ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0..64)
setup

# 28123 >>>MN terminated PDU session STRUCTURE PDU Session
Resource Setup Info – MN terminated IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.1.2.5

# 28125 >>>>List of DRBs to be setup LIST DRB to QoS
Flow Mapping List IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.15

# 28126 >>>>>DRB Item to be setup STRUCTURE DRB to QoS
Flow Mapping Item IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.15

# 28127 >>>>>>DRB ID ELEMENT TRUE DRB ID IE in TS
38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.33

# 28128 >>>>>>NG-RAN DRB STRUCTURE 8.1.1.5

# 28129 >>>>>>List of QoS LIST QoS Flows List
flows to be setup IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.15

# 28130 >>>>>>>QoS flow STRUCTURE QoS Flow Item
Item to be setup IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.15

# 28131 >>>>>>>>QoS ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow
Flow Identifier Identifier IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.10

# 28132 >>>>>>>>QoS STRUCTURE 8.1.1.6
Flow

# 28133 >>>>>>Count of list of ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0..64)
QoS flows to be setup

# 28134 >>>>Count of list of DRBs to ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0..64)
be setup

# 28135 Count of list of PDU sessions to be added ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER
(0..256)

# 28136 List of E-RABs to be added LIST E-RABs To Be
Added List IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.1.4.1

# 28137 >E-RAB Item STRUCTURE E-RABs To Be
Added Item IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.1.4.1

# 28138 >>E-RAB ID ELEMENT TRUE E-RAB ID IE in TS 36.423 [17]
Clause 9.2.23

# 28139 >>E-RAB STRUCTURE 8.1.1.9

# 28140 >>EN-DC Resource Configuration STRUCTURE EN-DC
Resource Configuration IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.108

# 28141 >>>PDCP at SgNB ELEMENT FALSE PDCP at SgNB
IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.108

# 28142 >>>MCG resources ELEMENT FALSE MCG resources
IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.108

# 28143 >>>SCG resources ELEMENT FALSE SCG resources
IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.108

# 28144 >>CHOICE Resource Configuration STRUCTURE Resource
Configuration IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.1.4.1

# 28145 >>>PDCP present in SN STRUCTURE PDCP Present
in SN IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.1.4.1

# 28146 >>>>Maximum MCG STRUCTURE 8.1.1.9
admittable E-RAB Level QoS parameters

# 28147 >>>>RLC Mode ELEMENT FALSE RLC Mode IE in TS 36.423 [17]
Clause 9.1.4.1

# 28148 >>>>UL Configuration ELEMENT FALSE UL Configuration
IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.1.4.1

# 28149 >>>PDCP not present in SN STRUCTURE PDCP Not
Present in SN IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.1.4.1

# 28150 >>>>Requested SCG E-RAB STRUCTURE 8.1.1.9
Level QoS Parameters

# 28151 >>>>RLC Mode ELEMENT FALSE RLC Mode IE in TS 36.423 [17]
Clause 9.1.4.1

# 28152 >>>>UL Configuration ELEMENT FALSE UL Configuration
IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.1.4.1

# 28153 Count of list of E-RABs to be added ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER
(0..256)

# 28154 List of SN-terminated DRBs LIST Available DRB
IDs IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.1.2.1

# 28155 >SN-terminated DRB item STRUCTURE

# 28156 >>DRB ID ELEMENT TRUE DRB ID IE in TS
38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.33

# 28157 >>CHOICE DRB Type STRUCTURE

# 28158 >>>NG-RAN DRB STRUCTURE 8.1.1.5

# 28159 >>>E-UTRA DRB STRUCTURE 8.1.1.9

# 28160 Count of list of SN-terminated DRBs ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0..64)

# 28161 Primary Cell ID STRUCTURE This is for the primary serving
cell of the UE. The structuring of this parameter is based on Target Cell Global ID IE in TS 38.423 [15] clause 9.2.3.25

# 28162 >CHOICE Primary Cell STRUCTURE The primary
cell could either be an NR primary cell or an LTE primary cell. The structuring is based onTarget Cell IE in TS 38.423 [15] clause 9.2.3.25

# 28163 >>NR SpCell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.1 NR Cell IE in TS 38.423 [15]
clause 9.2.3.25 or SpCell ID IE in TS 38.473 [19] clause 9.2.2.1

# 28164 >>LTE PCell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.2 E-UTRA Cell
IE in TS 38.423 [15] clause 9.2.3.25

##### 8.1.2.4.2 SN Modification and deletion
RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key RAN Parameter Semantics Parameter Parameter Flag Definition Description ID Value Type

# 28201 Event AN and inter-RAT B1 mobility STRUCTURE Connectivity and Event AN and thresholds Mobility Event inter-RAT B1
Thresholds IE in mobility clause 8.1.1.10 thresholds

# 28202 Secondary Node STRUCTURE 8.1.1.11

# 28205 CHOICE PDCP Change Indication STRUCTURE PDCP Change
Indication IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.74

# 28206 >From S-NG-RAN Node STRUCTURE From S-NG- RAN Node IE
in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.74

# 28207 >>Indication from S-NG-RAN node to ELEMENT Indication from M-NG-RAN node S-NG-RAN node
to M-NG-RAN node IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.74

# 28208 >From M-NG-RAN Node STRUCTURE From M-NG- RAN Node IE
in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.74

# 28209 >>Indication from M-NG-RAN node to ELEMENT Indication from S-NG-RAN node M-NG-RAN node
to S-NG-RAN node IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.74

# 28210 Secondary Node UE Aggregate Maximum STRUCTURE UE Aggregate
Bit Rate Maximum Bit Rate IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.12

# 28211 >UE Aggregate Maximum Bit Rate ELEMENT FALSE UE Aggregate
Downlink Maximum Bit Rate Downlink IE in TS 36.423 [17] clause 9.2.12

# 28212 >UE Aggregate Maximum Bit Rate Uplink ELEMENT FALSE UE Aggregate
Maximum Bit Rate Uplink IE in TS 36.423 [17] clause 9.2.12

# 28213 List of PDU sessions to be added LIST PDU Session
Resources To Be Setup List IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.1

# 28214 >PDU Session Item STRUCTURE PDU Session
Resources To Be Setup Item IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.1

# 28215 >>PDU Session ID ELEMENT TRUE PDU Session ID
IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.18

# 28216 >>PDU Session STRUCTURE 8.1.1.16

# 28217 >>CHOICE PDU Session Setup Info STRUCTURE PDU Session
Resource Setup Info – SN terminated IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.1.2.5

# 28218 >>>SN terminated PDU session STRUCTURE PDU Session
Resource Setup Info – SN terminated IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.1.2.5

# 28219 >>>>List of QoS flows to be LIST QoS Flows To setup Be Setup List
IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.1

# 28220 >>>>>QoS flow Item to be STRUCTURE QoS Flow To setup Be Setup Item
IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.1

# 28221 >>>>>>QoS Flow ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow
Indicator Identifier IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.10

# 28222 >>>>>>QoS flow STRUCTURE 8.1.1.6

# 28223 >>>>Count of QoS flows to be ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0..64)
setup

# 28224 >>>MN terminated PDU session STRUCTURE PDU Session
Resource Setup Info – MN terminated IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.1.2.5

# 28225 >>>>List of DRBs to be setup LIST DRB to QoS
Flow Mapping List IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.15

# 28226 >>>>>DRB Item to be setup STRUCTURE DRB to QoS
Flow Mapping Item IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.15

# 28227 >>>>>>DRB ID ELEMENT TRUE DRB ID IE in TS
38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.33

# 28228 >>>>>>NG-RAN DRB STRUCTURE 8.1.1.5

# 28229 >>>>>>List of QoS LIST QoS Flows List
flows to be setup IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.15

# 28230 >>>>>>>QoS flow STRUCTURE QoS Flow Item
Item to be setup IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.15

# 28231 >>>>>>>>QoS ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow
Flow Indicator Indicator IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.10

# 28232 >>>>>>>>QoS STRUCTURE 8.1.1.6
Flow

# 28233 >>>>>>Count of list of ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0..64)
QoS flows to be setup

# 28234 >>>>Count of list of DRBs to ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0..64)
be setup

# 28235 Count of list of PDU sessions to be added ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER
(0..256)

# 28236 List of PDU sessions to be modified LIST PDU Session
Resources To Be Setup List IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.1

# 28237 >PDU Session Item STRUCTURE PDU Session
Resources To Be Setup Item IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.1

# 28238 >>PDU Session ID ELEMENT TRUE PDU Session ID
IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.18

# 28239 >>PDU Session STRUCTURE 8.1.1.16

# 28240 >>CHOICE PDU Session Modification STRUCTURE
Info

# 28241 >>>SN terminated PDU session STRUCTURE PDU Session
Resource Setup Info – SN terminated IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.1.2.5

# 28242 >>>>List of QoS flows to be LIST QoS Flows To modified Be Setup List
IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.1

# 28243 >>>>>QoS flow Item to be STRUCTURE QoS Flow To modified Be Setup Item
IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.1

# 28244 >>>>>>QoS Flow ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow
Indicator Identifier IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.10

# 28245 >>>>>>QoS flow STRUCTURE 8.1.1.6

# 28246 >>>>Count of QoS flows to be ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0..64)
modified

# 28247 >>>MN terminated PDU session STRUCTURE PDU Session
Resource Setup Info – MN terminated IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.1.2.5

# 28248 >>>>List of DRBs to be LIST DRB to QoS
modified Flow Mapping List IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.15

# 28249 >>>>>DRB Item to be STRUCTURE DRB to QoS
modified Flow Mapping Item IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.15

# 28250 >>>>>>DRB ID ELEMENT TRUE DRB ID IE in TS
38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.33

# 28251 >>>>>>NG-RAN DRB STRUCTURE 8.1.1.5

# 28252 >>>>>>List of QoS LIST QoS Flows List
flows to be modified IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.15

# 28253 >>>>>>>QoS flow STRUCTURE QoS Flow Item
Item to be setup IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.15

# 28254 >>>>>>>>QoS ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow
Flow Indicator Indicator IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.10

# 28255 >>>>>>>>QoS STRUCTURE 8.1.1.6
Flow

# 28256 >>>>>>Count of list of ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0..64)
QoS flows to be setup

# 28257 >>>>Count of list of DRBs to ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0..64)
be modified

# 28258 >>MR-DC Usage Information STRUCTURE MR-DC Usage
Information IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.63

# 28259 >>>Secondary RAT Type ELEMENT FALSE Secondary RAT
Type IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.63

# 28260 >>>PDU Session Timed Report LIST Data Usage
List Report List IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.64

# 28261 >>>>MR-DC Data Usage STRUCTURE Data Report
Report Item Usage Item IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.64

# 28262 >>>>>Start Timestamp ELEMENT FALSE Start timestamp
IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.64

# 28263 >>>>>End Timestamp ELEMENT FALSE End timestamp
IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.64

# 28264 >>>>>Usage Count UL ELEMENT FALSE Usage count DL
IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.64

# 28265 >>>>>Usage Count DL ELEMENT FALSE Usage count DL
IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.64

# 28266 >>MR-DC Usage for QoS flows LIST Data Usage
Per QoS Flow List IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.63

# 28267 >>>QoS Flow Item STRUCTURE Data Usage
Per QoS Flow Item IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.63

# 28268 >>>>QoS flow Indicator ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow
Indicator IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.24

# 28269 >>>>Secondary RAT Type ELEMENT FALSE Secondary RAT
Type IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.63

# 28270 >>>>QoS Flow Timed Report LIST Data Usage
List Report List IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.64

# 28271 >>>>>MR-DC Data Usage STRUCTURE Data Report
Report Item Usage Item IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.64

# 28272 >>>>>>Start Timestamp ELEMENT FALSE Start timestamp
IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.64

# 28273 >>>>>>End timestamp ELEMENT FALSE End timestamp
IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.64

# 28274 >>>>>>Usage Count UL ELEMENT FALSE Usage count DL
IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.64

# 28275 >>>>>>Usage Count DL ELEMENT FALSE Usage count DL
IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.64

# 28276 Count of list of PDU sessions to be ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER
modified (0..256)

# 28277 List of PDU sessions to be released LIST PDU Session
Resources To Be Released List IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.1.2.14

# 28278 >PDU Session Item STRUCTURE PDU Session
List With Cause IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.26

# 28279 >>PDU Session ID ELEMENT TRUE PDU Session ID
IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.18

# 28280 >>PDU Session STRUCTURE 8.1.1.16

# 26281 >>Release Cause STRUCTURE Cause IE in TS
37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 26282 >>>CHOICE Cause Group STRUCTURE Cause Group
IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 26283 >>>>Radio Network Layer STRUCTURE Radio Network
Layer IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 26284 >>>>>Radio Network Layer ELEMENT FALSE Radio Network
Cause Layer Cause IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 26285 >>>>Transport Layer STRUCTURE Transport
Layer IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 26286 >>>>>Transport Layer ELEMENT FALSE Transport Layer
Cause Cause IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 26287 >>>>Protocol STRUCTURE Protocol IE in TS 37.483 [21]
Clause 9.3.1.2

# 26288 >>>>>Protocol Cause ELEMENT FALSE Protocol Cause
IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 26289 >>>>Miscellaneous STRUCTURE Misc IE in TS
37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 26290 >>>>>Miscellaneous Cause ELEMENT FALSE Miscellaneous
Cause IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 28291 Count of list of PDU sessions to be ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER
released (0..256)

# 28292 List of E-RABs to be added LIST E-RABs To Be
Added List IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.1.4.1

# 28293 >E-RAB Item STRUCTURE E-RABs To Be
Added Item IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.1.4.1

# 28294 >>E-RAB ID ELEMENT TRUE E-RAB ID IE in TS 36.423 [17]
Clause 9.2.23

# 28295 >>E-RAB STRUCTURE 8.1.1.9

# 28296 >>EN-DC Resource Configuration STRUCTURE EN-DC
Resource Configuration IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.108

# 28297 >>>PDCP at SgNB ELEMENT PDCP at SgNB
IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.108

# 28298 >>>MCG resources ELEMENT MCG resources
IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.108

# 28299 >>>SCG resources ELEMENT SCG resources
IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.108

# 28300 >>CHOICE Resource Configuration STRUCTURE Resource
Configuration IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.1.4.1

# 28301 >>>PDCP present in SN STRUCTURE PDCP Present
in SN IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.1.4.1

# 28302 >>>>Maximum MCG STRUCTURE 8.1.1.9
admittable E-RAB Level QoS parameters

# 28303 >>>>RLC Mode ELEMENT FALSE RLC Mode IE in TS 36.423 [17]
Clause 9.1.4.1

# 28304 >>>>UL Configuration ELEMENT FALSE UL Configuration
IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.1.4.1

# 28305 >>>PDCP not present in SN STRUCTURE PDCP Not
Present in SN IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.1.4.1

# 28306 >>>>Requested SCG E-RAB STRUCTURE 8.1.1.9
Level QoS Parameters

# 28307 >>>>RLC Mode ELEMENT FALSE RLC Mode IE in TS 36.423 [17]
Clause 9.1.4.1

# 28308 >>>>UL Configuration ELEMENT FALSE UL Configuration
IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.1.4.1

# 28309 Count of list of E-RABs to be added ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER
(0..256)

# 28310 List of E-RABs to be modified LIST E-RABs To Be
Modified List IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.1.4.5

# 28311 >E-RAB Item STRUCTURE E-RABs To Be
Modified Item IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.1.4.5

# 28312 >>E-RAB ID ELEMENT TRUE E-RAB ID IE in TS 36.423 [17]
Clause 9.2.23

# 28313 >>E-RAB STRUCTURE 8.1.1.9

# 28314 >>EN-DC Resource Configuration STRUCTURE EN-DC
Resource Configuration IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.108

# 28315 >>>PDCP at SgNB ELEMENT PDCP at SgNB
IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.108

# 28316 >>>MCG resources ELEMENT MCG resources
IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.108

# 28317 >>>SCG resources ELEMENT SCG resources
IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.108

# 28318 >>CHOICE Resource Configuration STRUCTURE Resource
Configuration IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.1.4.1

# 28319 >>>PDCP present in SN STRUCTURE PDCP Present
in SN IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.1.4.1

# 28320 >>>>Maximum MCG STRUCTURE 8.1.1.9
admittable E-RAB Level QoS parameters

# 28321 >>>>RLC Mode ELEMENT FALSE RLC Mode IE in TS 36.423 [17]
Clause 9.1.4.1

# 28322 >>>>UL Configuration ELEMENT FALSE UL Configuration
IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.1.4.1

# 28323 >>>PDCP not present in SN STRUCTURE PDCP Not
Present in SN IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.1.4.1

# 28324 >>>>Requested SCG E-RAB STRUCTURE 8.1.1.9
Level QoS Parameters

# 28325 >>>>RLC Mode ELEMENT FALSE RLC Mode IE in TS 36.423 [17]
Clause 9.1.4.1

# 28326 >>>>UL Configuration ELEMENT FALSE UL Configuration
IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.1.4.1

# 28327 Count of list of E-RABs to be modified ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER
(0..256)

# 28328 List of E-RABs to be released LIST E-RABs To Be
Released List IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.1.4.5

# 28329 >E-RAB Item STRUCTURE E-RABs To Be
Released Item IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.1.4.5

# 28330 >>E-RAB ID ELEMENT TRUE E-RAB ID IE in TS 36.423 [17]
Clause 9.2.23

# 28331 >>E-RAB STRUCTURE 8.1.1.9

# 28332 >>EN-DC Resource Configuration STRUCTURE EN-DC
Resource Configuration IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.108

# 28333 >>>PDCP at SgNB ELEMENT FALSE PDCP at SgNB
IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.108

# 28334 >>>MCG resources ELEMENT FALSE MCG resources
IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.108

# 28335 >>>SCG resources ELEMENT FALSE SCG resources
IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.108

# 28336 >>CHOICE Resource Configuration STRUCTURE Resource
Configuration IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.1.4.1

# 28337 >>>PDCP present in SN STRUCTURE PDCP Present
in SN IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.1.4.1

# 28338 >>>>Maximum MCG STRUCTURE 8.1.1.9
admittable E-RAB Level QoS parameters

# 28339 >>>>RLC Mode ELEMENT FALSE RLC Mode IE in TS 36.423 [17]
Clause 9.1.4.1

# 28340 >>>>UL Configuration ELEMENT FALSE UL Configuration
IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.1.4.1

# 28341 >>>PDCP not present in SN STRUCTURE PDCP Not
Present in SN IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.1.4.1

# 28342 >>>>Requested SCG E-RAB STRUCTURE 8.1.1.9
Level QoS Parameters

# 28343 >>>>RLC Mode ELEMENT FALSE RLC Mode IE in TS 36.423 [17]
Clause 9.1.4.1

# 28344 >>>>UL Configuration ELEMENT FALSE UL Configuration
IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.1.4.1

# 28345 Count of list of E-RABs to be released ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER
(0..256)

# 28346 List of SN-terminated DRBs to be LIST Additional DRB
modified or released IDs IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.1.2.5

# 28347 >SN-terminated DRB item STRUCTURE Additional DRB
IDs IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.1.2.5

# 28358 >>DRB ID ELEMENT TRUE DRB ID IE in TS
38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.33

# 28348 >>CHOICE DRB Type STRUCTURE Additional DRB
IDs IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.1.2.5

# 28349 >>>NG-RAN DRB STRUCTURE 8.1.1.5

# 28350 >>>E-UTRA DRB STRUCTURE 8.1.1.9

# 28351 Count of list of SN-terminated DRBs ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0..64)

# 28352 Primary Cell ID STRUCTURE SpCell ID IE in TS 38.473 [19]
clause 9.2.2.1

# 28353 >CHOICE Primary Cell STRUCTURE SpCell ID IE in TS 38.473 [19]
clause 9.2.2.1

# 28354 >>NR SpCell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.1

# 28355 >>LTE PCell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.2

#### 8.1.2.5 Radio Resource Control Management
The RAN Parameters for the call process type of “Radio Resource Control Management” are defined as follows.

##### 8.1.2.5.1 RRC CG-Config Information Transfer
RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key RAN Semantics Parameter Parame Flag Parameter Description ID ter Definition Value Type

# 29001 CG-ConfigInfo STRUC TS 38.473 [19]
TURE clause 9.3.1.25

# 29011 >MN Candidate Cell List Info STRUC candidateCellInfo
TURE ListMN IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29012 >>List of NR Cell Measurements LIST MeasResultList2
NR IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29013 >>>NR Cell Measurement Item STRUC MeasResult2NR
TURE Item IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29014 >>>>SSB Frequency ELEME FALSE ssbFrequen
NT cy IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29015 >>>>CSI-RS Reference Frequency ELEME FALSE refFreqCSI- NT RS IE in TS
38.331 [22]

# 29016 >>>>NR Serving Cell STRUC measResultServi
TURE ngCell IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29017 >>>>NR Neighbour Cell Measurement LIST measResultNeig
List hCellListNR IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29018 >>>>>NR Neighbour Cell STRUC measResultNR
Measurement Item TURE Item IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29019 >>>>>>NR Neighbour Cell STRUC NR Cell in TURE 8.1.1.1

# 29021 >SN Candidate Cell List Info STRUC candidateCellInfo
TURE ListMN IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29022 >>List of NR Cell Measurements LIST MeasResultList2
NR IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29023 >>>NR Cell Measurement Item STRUC MeasResult2NR
TURE Item IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29024 >>>>SSB Frequency ELEME FALSE ssbFrequen
NT cy IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29025 >>>>CSI-RS Reference Frequency ELEME FALSE refFreqCSI- NT RS IE in TS
38.331 [22]

# 29026 >>>>NR Serving Cell STRUC measResultServi
TURE ngCell IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29027 >>>>NR Neighbour Cell Measurement LIST measResultNeig
List hCellListNR IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29028 >>>>>NR Neighbour Cell STRUC measResultNR
Measurement Item TURE Item IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29029 >>>>>>NR Neighbour Cell STRUC NR Cell in TURE 8.1.1.1

# 29031 >SCG Failure Info STRUC FailureReportSC
TURE G IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29032 >>Failure Type ELEME FALSE failureType
NT IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29033 >>Meas Result SCG Failure STRUC measResultSCG- TURE Failure IE in TS
38.331 [22]

# 29034 >>>Measurement Result List Per STRUC measResultPerM
Measurement Object TURE OList IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29035 >>>>List of NR Cell Measurements LIST MeasResultList2
NR IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29036 >>>>>NR Cell Measurement Item STRUC MeasResult2NR
TURE Item IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29037 >>>>>>SSB Frequency ELEME FALSE ssbFrequen
NT cy IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29038 >>>>>>CSI-RS Reference ELEME FALSE refFreqCSI- Frequency NT RS IE in TS
38.331 [22]

# 29039 >>>>>>NR Serving Cell STRUC measResultServi
TURE ngCell IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29040 >>>>>>>NR Neighbour Cell LIST measResultNeig
Measurement List hCellListNR IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29041 >>>>>>>>NR Neighbour STRUC measResultNR
Cell Measurement Item TURE Item IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29042 >>>>>>>>NR STRUC NR Cell in Neighbour Cell TURE 8.1.1.1

# 29051 >DRX Info MCG STRUC drx-InfoMCG IE
TURE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29052 >>DRX Long Cycle Start Offset ELEME FALSE drx- NT LongCycle
StartOffset IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29053 >>Short DRX STRUC shortDRX IE in TURE TS 38.331 [22]

# 29054 >>>DRX Short Cycle ELEME FALSE drx- NT ShortCycle
IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29055 >>>DRX Short Cycle Timer ELEME FALSE drx- NT ShortCycle
Timer IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29061 >Measurement Configuration MN STRUC MeasConfigMN
TURE IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29062 >>MN Measured Frequencies LIST measuredFreque
nciesMN IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29063 >>>NR Frequency Info Item STRUC NR- TURE FreqInfo IE
in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29064 >>>>NR ARFCN ELEME FALSE ARFCN- NT ValueNR IE
in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29065 >Secondary Cell Group RB Config STRUC scg-RB-Config IE
TURE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29066 >>Radio Bearer Config STRUC RadioBearerConf
TURE ig IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29067 >>>DRB To Add Modify List LIST Drb- ToAddModList IE
in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29068 >>>>DRB To Add Modify Item STRUC DRB-ToAddMod
TURE IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29069 >>>>>CHOICE CN Association STRUC cnAssociation IE
TURE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29070 >>>>>>EPS Bearer Identity ELEME FALSE eps- NT BearerIdent
ity IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29071 >>>>>>SDAP Config STRUC SDAP-Config IE
TURE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29072 >>>>>>>PDU Session ID ELEME TRUE PDU- NT SessionID
IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29073 >>>>>>>PDU Session STRUC 8.1.1.16
TURE

# 29074 >>>>>>>Default DRB ELEME FALSE defaultDRB
NT IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29075 >>>>>DRB ID ELEME TRUE DRB- NT Identity IE
in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29076 >>>>>CHOICE DRB Type STRUC DRB-ToAddMod
TURE IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29077 >>>>>>NG-RAN DRB STRUC 8.1.1.5
TURE

# 29078 >>>>>>LTE E-UTRA DRB STRUC 8.1.1.9
TURE

# 29079 >>>>>Reestablish PDCP ELEME FALSE reestablish
NT PDCP IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29080 >>>>>Recover PDCP ELEME FALSE recoverPD
NT CP IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29081 >>>>>PDCP Config STRUC PDCP
TURE Configurati on IE in 8.1.2.2.4

# 29091 >Master Cell Group RB Config STRUC scg-RB-Config IE
TURE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29092 >>Radio Bearer Config STRUC RadioBearerConf
TURE ig IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29093 >>>DRB To Add Modify List LIST Drb- ToAddModList IE
in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29094 >>>>DRB To Add Modify Item STRUC DRB-ToAddMod
TURE IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29095 >>>>>CHOICE CN Association STRUC cnAssociation IE
TURE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29096 >>>>>>EPS Bearer Identity ELEME FALSE eps- NT BearerIdent
ity IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29097 >>>>>>SDAP Config STRUC SDAP-Config IE
TURE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29098 >>>>>>>PDU Session ID ELEME FALSE PDU- NT SessionID
IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29099 >>>>>>>PDU Session STRUC 8.1.1.16
TURE

# 29100 >>>>>>>Default DRB ELEME FALSE defaultDRB
NT IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29101 >>>>>>>Reflective QoS ELEME FALSE as- NT reflectiveQ
oS IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29102 >>>>>DRB ID ELEME TRUE DRB- NT Identity IE
in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29103 >>>>>CHOICE DRB Type STRUC DRB-ToAddMod
TURE IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29104 >>>>>>NG-RAN DRB STRUC 8.1.1.5
TURE

# 29105 >>>>>>LTE E-UTRA DRB STRUC 8.1.1.9
TURE

# 29106 >>>>>Reestablish PDCP ELEME FALSE reestablish
NT PDCP IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29107 >>>>>Recover PDCP ELEME FALSE recoverPD
NT CP IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29108 >>>>>PDCP Config STRUC PDCP
TURE Configurati on IE in 8.1.2.2.4

# 29111 >List of UE Capability RAT Containers LIST UE- CapabilityRAT-
ContainerList IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29112 >>UE Capability RAT Container Item STRUC UE- TURE CapabilityRAT-
Container IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29113 >>>RAT Type ELEME FALSE RAT-Type
NT IE in TS 38.331 [22]

##### 8.1.2.5.2 RRC Cell Group Config Transfer
RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key RAN Semantics Parameter Parameter Flag Parameter Description ID Value Type Definition

# 29501 CellGroupConfig STRUCTURE TS 38.473 [19]
clause 9.3.1.25

# 29502 >Cell Group ID STRUCTURE 8.1.1.7

# 29503 >List of RLC Bearers to Add or Modify LIST rlc- BearerToAddM
odList IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29504 >>RLC Bearer to Add or Modify Item STRUCTURE rlc- BearerToAddM
odList IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29505 >>>Served RLC Radio Bearer STRUCTURE 8.1.1.5

# 29506 >>>RLC Bearer Config STRUCTURE RLC- BearerConfig
IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29507 >>>>Logical Channel Identity ELEMENT TRUE logicalChann
elIdentity IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29508 >>>>Reestablish RLC ELEMENT FALSE reestablishR
LC IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29509 >>>>CHOICE RLC Config STRUCTURE RLC-Config IE
in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29510 >>>>>AM STRUCTURE am IE in TS
38.331 [22]

# 29511 >>>>>>UL AM RLC STRUCTURE ul-AM-RLC IE
in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29512 >>>>>>>Poll ELEMENT FALSE t- Retransmit PollRetrans
mit IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29513 >>>>>>>Max ELEMENT FALSE maxRetxThr
Retransmission eshold IE in Threshold TS 38.331 [22]

# 29514 >>>>>>>Poll PDU ELEMENT FALSE pollPDU IE
in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29515 >>>>>>>Poll Byte ELEMENT FALSE pollByte IE
in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29516 >>>>>>DL AM RLC STRUCTURE dl-AM-RLC IE
in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29517 >>>>>>>Reassembly ELEMENT FALSE t- Reassembly
IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29518 >>>>>>>Status ELEMENT FALSE t- Prohibit StatusProhib
it IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29519 >>>>>UM Bi-directional STRUCTURE um-Bi- Directional IE
in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29521 >>>>>>UL UM RLC ELEMENT FALSE UL-UM-RLC IE
in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29522 >>>>>>DL UM RLC STRUCTURE DL-UM-RLC IE
in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29523 >>>>>>>Reassembly ELEMENT FALSE t- Reassembly
IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29530 >>>>>UM Uni-directional UL STRUCTURE um-Uni- Directional-UL
IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29531 >>>>>>UL UM RLC ELEMENT FALSE ul-UM-RLC
IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29540 >>>>>UM Uni-directional DL STRUCTURE um-Uni- Directional-DL
IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29541 >>>>>>DL UM RLC STRUCTURE dl-UM-RLC IE
in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29542 >>>>>>>Reassembly ELEMENT FALSE t- Reassembly
IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29551 >>>>MAC Logical Channel STRUCTURE
Config

# 29552 >>>>>Priority ELEMENT FALSE priority IE in TS 38.331
[22] Clause

# 29553 >>>>>Prioritized Bit Rate ELEMENT FALSE prioritisedBit
Rate IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause

# 29554 >>>>>Bucket Size Duration ELEMENT FALSE bucketSizeD
uration IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause

# 29555 >>>>>List of allowed sub- LIST allowedSCS- carrier spacing List IE in TS
38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 29556 >>>>>>Allowed sub- STRUCTURE
carrier spacing item

# 29557 >>>>>>>Sub Carrier ELEMENT FALSE SubCarrierS
Spacing pacing IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause

# 29558 >>>>>Max PUSCH Duration ELEMENT FALSE maxPUSCH- Duration IE
in TS 38.331 [22] Sec 6

# 29559 >>>>>Configured Grant ELEMENT configuredGr
Type1 Allowed antTypeAllo wed IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 29560 >>>>>Logical Channel Group ELEMENT FALSE logicalChann
elGroup IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29561 >>>>>Logical Channel SR – ELEMENT FALSE logicalChann
Mask elSR-Mask IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 29562 >>>>>Logical Channel SR – ELEMENT FALSE logicalChann
Delay Timer Applied elSR- DelayTimerA pplied IE in TS 38.331 [22] Sec 6

# 29563 >>>>>Bit Rate Query Prohibit ELEMENT FALSE bitRateQuer
Timer yProhibitTim er IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 29564 >>>>>Channel Access ELEMENT FALSE reestablishR
Priority LC IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29565 >>>>>Bit Rate Multiplier ELEMENT FALSE logicalChann
elGroup IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29601 >List of RLC Bearers to Release LIST rlc- BearerToRelea
seList IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29602 >>RLC Bearer to Release Item STRUCTURE rlc- BearerToRelea
seList IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29603 >>>Served RLC Radio Bearer STRUCTURE 8.1.1.5

# 29604 >>>Logical Channel Identity ELEMENT TRUE logicalChann
elIdentity IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29651 >MAC Cell Group Config STRUCTURE mac- CellGroupConf
ig IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29652 >>Scheduling Request Config STRUCTURE schedulingReq
uestConfig IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29654 >>>List of Scheduling Requests to LIST schedulingReq
Add or Modify uestToAddMod List IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29655 >>>>Scheduling Request Item STRUCTURE SchedulingReq
uestToAddMod IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29656 >>>>>Scheduling Request ID ELEMENT TRUE SchedulingR
equestId IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29657 >>>>>SR Prohibit Timer ELEMENT FALSE sr- ProhibitTime
r IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29658 >>>>>SR Transmission Max ELEMENT FALSE sr-TransMax
IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29659 >>>List of Scheduling Requests for LIST schedulingReq
release uestToRelease List IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29660 >>>>Scheduling Request Item STRUCTURE

# 29661 >>>>>Scheduling Request ID ELEMENT TRUE SchedulingR
equestId IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29662 >>>>>SR Prohibit Timer ELEMENT FALSE sr- ProhibitTime
r IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29663 >>>>>SR Transmission Max ELEMENT FALSE sr-TransMax
IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29675 >>BSR Config STRUCTURE bsr-Config IE
in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29676 >>>Periodic BSR Timer ELEMENT FALSE periodicBSR
-Timer IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 29677 >>>Retx BSR Timer ELEMENT FALSE retxBSR- Timer IE in
TS 38.331 [22]

# 29578 >>>Logical Channel SR Delay Timer ELEMENT FALSE logicalChann
elSR- DelayTimer IE in TS 38.331 [22]

##### 8.1.2.5.3 RRC Measurement Configuration
This Call Process Breakpoint uses RRC related RAN parameters defined in clauses 8.1.1 and 8.4.10.

#### 8.1.2.6 PDU Session Management
The RAN Parameters for the call process type of “PDU Session Management” are defined as follows.

##### 8.1.2.6.1 PDU Session Resource Setup
RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key RAN Semantics Parameter Parameter Flag Parameter Description ID Value Type Definition

# 30001 PDU Session ID ELEMENT TRUE PDU Session
ID IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.50

# 30002 PDU Session STRUCTURE 8.1.1.16

# 30003 List of QoS Flows to be setup LIST QoS Flow
Setup Request List IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.4.1

# 30004 >QoS flow setup request item STRUCTURE QoS Flow
Setup Request Item IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.4.1

# 30005 >>QoS Flow Identifier ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow
Identifier IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.51

# 30006 >>QoS flow STRUCTURE 8.1.1.6

# 30010 List of QoS Flows failed to be setup LIST QoS Flow
Failed To Setup List IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.4.2

# 30011 >QoS flow item failed for setup STRUCTURE QoS Flow
Item IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.13

# 30012 >>QoS Flow Identifier ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow
Identifier IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.51

# 30013 >>QoS flow STRUCTURE 8.1.1.6

# 30014 >>Cause STRUCTURE Cause IE in TS 38.413
[11] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 30015 >>>CHOICE Cause group STRUCTURE Cause Group
IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 30016 >>>>Radio Network Layer STRUCTURE Radio
Network Layer IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 30017 >>>>>Radio Network Layer ELEMENT FALSE Radio Network
Cause Layer Cause IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 30018 >>>>Transport Layer STRUCTURE Transport
Layer IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 30019 >>>>>Transport Layer Cause ELEMENT FALSE Transport
Layer Cause IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 30020 >>>>NAS STRUCTURE NAS IE in TS
38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 30021 >>>>>NAS Cause ELEMENT FALSE NAS Cause IE
in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 30022 >>>>Protocol STRUCTURE Protocol IE in TS 38.413
[11] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 30023 >>>>>Protocol Cause ELEMENT FALSE Protocol
Cause IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 30024 >>>>Miscellaneous STRUCTURE Misc IE in TS
38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 30025 >>>>>Miscellaneous Cause ELEMENT FALSE Miscellaneous
Cause IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 30031 Primary Cell ID STRUCTURE This is for the primary
serving cell of the UE. The structuring of this parameter is based on Target Cell Global ID IE in TS 38.423 [15] clause 9.2.3.25

# 30032 >CHOICE Primary Cell STRUCTURE The primary
cell could either be an NR primary cell or an LTE primary cell. The structuring is based onTarget Cell IE in TS 38.423 [15] clause 9.2.3.25

# 30033 >>NR SpCell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.1 NR Cell IE in TS 38.423
[15] clause 9.2.3.25

# 30034 >>E-UTRA PCell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.2 E-UTRA Cell
IE in TS 38.423 [15] clause 9.2.3.25

##### 8.1.2.6.2 PDU Session Resource Modification
RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key RAN Parameter Semantics Parameter Parameter Flag Definition Description ID Value Type

# 31001 PDU Session ID ELEMENT TRUE PDU Session ID
IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.50

# 31002 PDU Session STRUCTURE 8.1.1.16

# 31003 List of QoS Flows to add or modify LIST QoS Flow Add
or Modify Request List IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.4.3

# 31004 >QoS flow add or modify request item STRUCTURE QoS Flow Add
or Modify Request Item IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.4.3

# 31005 >QoS Flow Identifier ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow
Identifier IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.51

# 31006 >>QoS flow STRUCTURE 8.1.1.6

# 31012 List of QoS Flows failed to be added or LIST QoS Flow
modified Failed To Add or Modify List IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.4.2

# 31013 >QoS flow item failed to be added or STRUCTURE QoS Flow Item
modified IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.13

# 31014 >>QoS Flow Identifier ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow
Identifier IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.51

# 31015 >>QoS flow STRUCTURE 8.1.1.6

# 31016 >>Cause STRUCTURE Cause IE in TS
38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 31017 >>>CHOICE Cause group STRUCTURE Cause Group
IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 31018 >>>>Radio Network Layer STRUCTURE Radio Network
Layer IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 31019 >>>>>Radio Network Layer ELEMENT FALSE Radio Network
Cause Layer Cause IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 31020 >>>>Transport Layer STRUCTURE Transport Layer
IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 31021 >>>>>Transport Layer ELEMENT FALSE Transport Layer
Cause Cause IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 31022 >>>>NAS STRUCTURE NAS IE in TS
38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 31023 >>>>>NAS Cause ELEMENT FALSE NAS Cause IE in TS 38.413 [11]
Clause 9.3.1.2

# 31024 >>>>Protocol STRUCTURE Protocol IE in TS 38.413 [11]
Clause 9.3.1.2

# 31025 >>>>>Protocol Cause ELEMENT FALSE Protocol Cause
IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 31026 >>>>Miscellaneous STRUCTURE Misc IE in TS
38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 31027 >>>>>Miscellaneous Cause ELEMENT FALSE Miscellaneous
Cause IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 31031 List of QoS Flows to be released LIST QoS Flow To Release List IE
in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.4.2

# 31032 >QoS flow item to be released STRUCTURE QoS Flow Item
IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.13

# 31033 >>QoS Flow Identifier ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow
Identifier IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.51

# 31034 >>QoS flow STRUCTURE 8.1.1.6

# 31035 >>Cause STRUCTURE Cause IE in TS
38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 31036 >>>CHOICE Cause group STRUCTURE Cause Group
IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 31037 >>>>Radio Network Layer STRUCTURE Radio Network
Layer IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 31038 >>>>>Radio Network Layer ELEMENT Radio Network
Cause Layer Cause IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 31039 >>>>Transport Layer STRUCTURE Transport Layer
IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 31040 >>>>>Transport Layer ELEMENT FALSE Transport Layer
Cause Cause IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 31041 >>>>NAS STRUCTURE NAS IE in TS
38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 31042 >>>>>NAS Cause ELEMENT FALSE NAS Cause IE in TS 38.413 [11]
Clause 9.3.1.2

# 31043 >>>>Protocol STRUCTURE Protocol IE in TS 38.413 [11]
Clause 9.3.1.2

# 31044 >>>>>Protocol Cause ELEMENT FALSE Protocol Cause
IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 31045 >>>>Miscellaneous STRUCTURE Misc IE in TS
38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 31046 >>>>>Miscellaneous Cause ELEMENT FALSE Miscellaneous
Cause IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 31051 MR-DC Usage Information STRUCTURE MR-DC Usage
Information IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.63

# 31052 >Secondary RAT Type ELEMENT FALSE Secondary RAT
Type IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.63

# 31053 >PDU Session Timed Report List LIST Data Usage
Report List IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.64

# 31054 >>MR-DC Data Usage Report Item STRUCTURE Data Report
Usage Item IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.64

# 31055 >>>Start Timestamp ELEMENT FALSE Start timestamp
IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.64

# 31075 >>>End Timestamp ELEMENT FALSE End timestamp
IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.64

# 31056 >>>Usage Count UL ELEMENT FALSE Usage count DL
IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.64

# 31057 >>>Usage Count DL ELEMENT FALSE Usage count DL
IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.64

# 31061 MR-DC Usage for QoS flows LIST Data Usage
Per QoS Flow List IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.63

# 31062 >QoS Flow Item STRUCTURE Data Usage
Per QoS Flow Item IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.63

# 31063 >>QoS flow Identifier ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow
Identifier IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.24

# 31064 >>Secondary RAT Type ELEMENT FALSE Secondary RAT
Type IE in TS 37.483 [21] Sec 9.3.1.63

# 31065 >>QoS Flow Timed Report List LIST Data Usage
Report List IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.64

# 31066 >>>MR-DC Data Usage Report STRUCTURE Data Report
Item Usage Item IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.64

# 31067 >>>>Start Timestamp ELEMENT FALSE Start timestamp
IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.64

# 31068 >>>>End timestamp ELEMENT FALSE End timestamp
IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.64

# 31069 >>>>Usage Count UL ELEMENT FALSE Usage count DL
IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.64

# 31070 >>>>Usage Count DL ELEMENT FALSE Usage count DL
IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.64

# 31081 Primary Cell ID STRUCTURE This is for the primary serving
cell of the UE. The structuring of this parameter is based on Target Cell Global ID IE in TS 38.423 [15] clause 9.2.3.25

# 31082 >CHOICE Primary Cell STRUCTURE The primary
cell could either be an NR primary cell or an LTE primary cell. The structuring is based on Target Cell IE in TS 38.423 [15] clause 9.2.3.25

# 31083 >>NR SpCell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.1 NR Cell IE in TS 38.423 [15]
clause 9.2.3.25

# 31084 >>E-UTRA PCell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.2 E-UTRA Cell IE
in TS 38.423 [15] clause 9.2.3.25

##### 8.1.2.6.3 PDU Session Resource Release
RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key Flag RAN Parameter Semantics Parameter Parameter Definition Description ID Value Type

# 32001 PDU Session ID ELEMENT TRUE PDU Session ID
IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.50

# 32002 PDU Session STRUCTURE 8.1.1.16

# 32011 Cause STRUCTURE Cause IE in TS 38.413
[11] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 32012 >CHOICE Cause group STRUCTURE Cause Group
IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 32013 >>Radio Network Layer STRUCTURE Radio
Network Layer IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 32014 >>>Radio Network Layer Cause ELEMENT FALSE Radio Network
Layer Cause IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 32015 >>Transport Layer STRUCTURE Transport
Layer IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 32016 >>>Transport Layer Cause ELEMENT FALSE Transport Layer
Cause IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 32017 >>NAS STRUCTURE NAS IE in TS
38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 32018 >>>NAS Cause ELEMENT FALSE NAS Cause IE in TS 38.413 [11]
Clause 9.3.1.2

# 32019 >>Protocol STRUCTURE Protocol IE in TS 38.413
[11] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 32020 >>>Protocol Cause ELEMENT FALSE Protocol Cause
IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 32021 >>Miscellaneous STRUCTURE Misc IE in TS
38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 32022 >>>Miscellaneous Cause ELEMENT FALSE Miscellaneous
Cause IE in TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.2

# 32031 MR-DC Usage Information STRUCTURE MR-DC
Usage Information IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.63

# 32032 >Secondary RAT Type ELEMENT FALSE Secondary RAT
Type IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.63

# 32033 >PDU Session Timed Report List LIST Data Usage
Report List IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.64

# 32034 >>MR-DC Data Usage Report Item STRUCTURE Data Report
Usage Item IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.64

# 32035 >>>Start Timestamp ELEMENT FALSE Start timestamp
IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.64

# 32036 >>>End Timestamp ELEMENT FALSE End timestamp
IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.64

# 32037 >>>Usage Count UL ELEMENT FALSE Usage count DL
IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.64

# 32038 >>>Usage Count DL ELEMENT FALSE Usage count DL
IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.64

# 32041 MR-DC Usage for QoS flows LIST Data Usage
Per QoS Flow List IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.63

# 32042 >QoS Flow Item STRUCTURE Data Usage
Per QoS Flow Item IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.63

# 32043 >>QoS flow Identifier ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow
Identifier IE in TS 37.483 [21] Sec 9.3.1.24

# 32054 >>QoS flow STRUCTURE 8.1.1.6

# 32044 >>Secondary RAT Type ELEMENT FALSE Secondary RAT
Type IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.63

# 32045 >>QoS Flow Timed Report List LIST Data Usage
Report List IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.64

# 32046 >>>MR-DC Data Usage Report STRUCTURE Data Report
Item Usage Item IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.64

# 32047 >>>>Start Timestamp ELEMENT FALSE Start timestamp
IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.64

# 32048 >>>>End timestamp ELEMENT FALSE End timestamp
IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.64

# 32049 >>>>Usage Count UL ELEMENT FALSE Usage count DL
IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.64

# 32050 >>>>Usage Count DL ELEMENT FALSE Usage count DL
IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.64

# 32061 Primary Cell ID STRUCTURE This is for the primary serving
cell of the UE. The structuring of this parameter is based on Target Cell Global ID IE in TS 38.423 [15] clause 9.2.3.25

# 32062 >CHOICE Primary Cell STRUCTURE The primary
cell could either be an NR primary cell or an LTE primary cell. The structuring is based on Target Cell IE in TS 38.423 [15] clause 9.2.3.25

# 32063 >>NR SpCell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.1 NR Cell IE in TS 38.423 [15]
clause 9.2.3.25

# 32064 >>E-UTRA PCell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.2 E-UTRA Cell
IE in TS 38.423 [15] clause 9.2.3.25

### 8.1.3 RAN Parameters for UE Identification
The following RAN Parameters are defined for identification of UEs. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key RAN Parameter Semantics Description Parameter Parameter Flag Definition ID Value Type

# 35001 Cell Global ID STRUCTURE To identify UEs associated to a specific cell

# 35002 >NR CGI STRUCTURE

# 35003 >>PLMN Identity ELEMENT FALSE Defined in [4]
clause 6.2.3.1.

# 35004 >>NR Cell Identity ELEMENT FALSE Defined in [4]
clause 6.2.3.7.

# 35005 >E-UTRA CGI STRUCTURE

# 35006 >>PLMN Identity ELEMENT FALSE Defined in [4]
clause 6.2.3.1.

# 35007 >>E-UTRA Cell ELEMENT FALSE Defined in [4]
Identity clause 6.2.3.11.

# 35010 S-NSSAI STRUCTURE To identify UEs associated to a specific S-NSSAI

# 35011 >SST ELEMENT FALSE Defined in [4]
clause 6.2.3.12.

# 35012 >SD ELEMENT FALSE Defined in [4]
clause 6.2.3.12.

# 35020 Group ID STRUCTURE To identify UEs associated to a specific Group ID defined in
[4] clause 6.2.2.7.

# 35021 >IRFSP ELEMENT FALSE Defined in [4]
clause 6.2.3.27.

# 35022 >SPID ELEMENT FALSE Defined in [4]
clause 6.2.3.28.

# 35030 Explicit UE List ID ELEMENT FALSE Defined in Clause To identify UEs associated to 8.4.9.1. a specific Explicit UE List ID
defined in Clause 8.4.9.1.

# 35040 Core Control Plane ID STRUCTURE To identify UEs associated to a specific Core Control Plane
ID (GUAMI/GUMMEI) defined in [4] clause 6.2.2.8.

# 35041 >GUAMI STRUCTURE

# 35042 >>PLMN Identity ELEMENT FALSE Defined in [4]
clause 6.2.3.1.

# 35043 >>AMF Region ID ELEMENT FALSE Defined in [4]
clause 6.2.3.17.

# 35044 >>AMF Set ID ELEMENT FALSE Defined in [4]
clause 6.2.3.17.

# 35045 >>AMF Pointer ELEMENT FALSE Defined in [4]
clause 6.2.3.17.

# 35046 >GUMMEI STRUCTURE

# 35047 >>PLMN Identity ELEMENT FALSE Defined in [4]
clause 6.2.3.1.

# 35048 >>MME Group ID ELEMENT FALSE Defined in [4]
clause 6.2.3.18.

# 35049 >>MME Code ELEMENT FALSE Defined in [4]
clause 6.2.3.18.

# 35050 QoS ID STRUCTURE To identify UEs associated to a specific QoS (QCI/5QI)
defined in [4] clause 6.2.2.9. The criteria is for any EPS/PDU sessions assigned to a UE.

# 35051 >5QI ELEMENT FALSE Defined in [4]
clause 6.2.3.13.

# 35052 >QCI ELEMENT FALSE Defined in [4]
clause 6.2.3.14.

# 35061 UE Throughput (DL) ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER To identify UEs based on Average Total DL Thoughtput
(kbit/s) as defined in TS 28.552 [28] clause 5.1.1.3.1

# 35062 UE Throughput (UL) ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER To identify UEs based on Average Total UL Thoughtput
(kbit/s) as defined in TS 28.552 [28] clause 5.1.1.3.3

# 35070 Beam ID ELEMENT FALSE Defined in [4] The serving SSB “beam” of clause 6.2.2.16 the UE

# 35080 Explicit UE List LIST To provide a list of Explicit
assignment list UE List ID matching condition

# 35081 > Explicit UE list ID ELEMENT FALSE Defined in clause
8.4.9.1.

# 35090 UE ID list LIST To provide a list of UE
matching condition

# 35091 > UE ID ELEMENT FALSE OCTET STRING Defined in clause 9.3.10

### 8.1.4 RAN Parameters for Cell Identification
The following RAN Parameters are defined for identification of Cells. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key Flag RAN Parameter Semantics Description Parameter Parameter Definition ID Value Type

# 36001 PLMN Identity ELEMENT FALSE Defined in [4] To identify cells based on clause 6.2.3.1. PLMN ID

# 36010 S-NSSAI STRUCTURE To identify cells based on supported S-NSSAI

# 36011 >SST ELEMENT FALSE Defined in [4]
clause 6.2.3.12.

# 36012 >SD ELEMENT FALSE Defined in [4]
clause 6.2.3.12.

### 8.1.5 UE Events
The following UE Event IDs are defined. UE UE Event Name Message Event in If used in E2SM-RC If used in E2SM-RC Event E2SM-RC Event Trigger Event Trigger Definition Indication Message ID Definition Format 1 IE Format 1 IE Format 1 IE Carrier Aggregation “F1” Network Interface Event triggering is only Indicates that this message Initiated message of “UE Context when this message event event happened due to Setup Request”. is by initiating carrier carrier aggregation. aggregation. A3 Measurement “RRC” message of Event triggering is only Indicates that this message Report Reception “Measurement Report”. when this message event event happened due to A3 is by A3 event. event.

## 8.2 RAN parameters for REPORT services

### 8.2.1 RAN Parameters for Report Service Style 1
RAN Parameter RAN Parameter RAN Key Flag RAN Parameter Semantics ID Name Parameter Definition Description Value Type UE Event ID ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER This shall be used to report the related UE Event ID described in Clause 8.1.5. NI Message ELEMENT FALSE OCTET STRING This shall be used to report Network Interface Message RRC Message ELEMENT FALSE OCTET STRING This shall be used to report RRC Message UE ID ELEMENT FALSE OCTET STRING Defined in Clause 9.3.10. This shall be used to report UE ID when the message event configured by the Event Trigger Style 1 is set to “RRC Setup Complete message” (UE attach), or “Xn/NG Handover Request” or “F1 UE Context Setup Request” (Intra gNB HandOver). Old AMF UE NGAP ELEMENT FALSE Defined in [4] This shall be used to ID clause 6.2.3.16. report Old AMF UE NGAP IDwhen the message event configured by Event Trigger Style 1 is set to “Xn Handover Request” and AMF UE NGAP ID is changed during HO. Cell Global ID ELEMENT FALSE OCTET STRING Defined in Clause 9.3.36 This shall be used to report the SpCell ID where the UE belongs to during reporting. Beam ID ELEMENT FALSE Defined in [4] This shall be used to clause 6.2.2.16 report source beam (last serving beam in the source cell) ID when the message configured by the Event Trigger Style 1 is set to “Xn/X2 Failure Indication” or “Xn/X2 Handover Report” UE Mobility Failure ELEMENT FALSE ENUMERATED This shall be used to Cause (HO too early, report Mobility failure HO too late, HO root cause when the wrong cell, HO message configured ping-pong, …) by the Event Trigger Style 1 is set to “Xn/X2 Failure Indication” or “Xn/X2 Handover Report”. In addition, this report style may use RAN parameters defined in Clause 8.1.1.

### 8.2.2 RAN Parameters for Report Service Style 2
RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key Flag RAN Parameter Semantics Parameter ID Name Parameter Definition Description Value Type Current UE ID ELEMENT FALSE OCTET STRING Defined in Clause 9.3.10. This shall be used to report UE ID defined at the time of Call Process Outcome. Old UE ID ELEMENT FALSE OCTET STRING Defined in Clause 9.3.10. This shall be used to report the previously assigned UE ID prior to the call process. Current RRC State ELEMENT FALSE Defined in Clause This shall be used to 9.3.37. report the RRC state at the time of Call Process Outcome. Old RRC State ELEMENT FALSE Defined in Clause This shall be used to 9.3.37. report the previous RRC state prior to the Call Process Outcome. UE Context ELEMENT FALSE OCTET STRING The RETRIEVE UE Information CONTEXT Container RESPONSE message content in TS 38.423 [17] clause 9.1.1.9. This shall be used to report UE Context information. Cell Global ID ELEMENT FALSE OCTET STRING Defined in Clause 9.3.36 This shall be used to report the SpCell ID where the UE belongs to during reporting.

# 7 UE Information Defined in Clause 8.1.1.17

### 8.2.3 RAN Parameters for Report Service Style 3
RAN RAN Parameter Semantics Description Parameter Name ID

# 3 Neighbour Relation This shall be used to Table report neighbour relation
information of the serving cells.

# 4 MIB MIB IE in TS 38.331 [22]
Clause 6.2.2. This shall be used to report MIB of the serving cell

# 5 Serving Cell Config This shall be used to Common report common parameters
of the serving cell contained in ServingCellConfigCommon IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6.3.2.

### 8.2.4 RAN Parameters for Report Service Style 4
RAN Parameter RAN RAN RAN Key RAN Semantics Description Category Parameter Parameter Parameter Flag Parameter ID Name Value Definition Type PDCP UE Variables Defined in Clause 8.1.1.8 L2 Bearer State Variables for PDCP State Variables RLC UM UE Variables Defined in Clause 8.1.1.8 L2 Bearer State Variables for RLC UM State Variables RLC AM UE Variables Defined in Clause 8.1.1.8 L2 Bearer State Variables for RLC AM State Variables MAC Variables 100 UL MAC ELEMENT FALSE OCTET This shall be used to CE STRING report MAC CE Structure

# 101 DL MAC ELEMENT FALSE OCTET as per TS 38.321 [26]
CE STRING clause 6.1.3

# 102 DL Buffer ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER DL Buffer Occupancy at Occupancy RLC. Expressed as
absolute values in terms of Number of Kilo Bytes (KB) RRC State 201 Current ELEMENT FALSE Defined in This shall be used to RRC State Clause report the RRC state 9.3.37. before RRC state change.

# 202 RRC State ELEMENT FALSE Defined in This shall be used to Changed Clause report new RRC state
To 9.3.37. upon RRC stage change

# 203 RRC ELEMENT FALSE OCTET This shall be used to Message STRING report the RRC message
which triggered RRC state change UE Identifier Change 300 Old UE ID ELEMENT FALSE OCTET Defined in Clause 9.3.10. STRING This shall be used to report the old UE ID upon UE ID change E2 Node shall report any available old NI or RRC interface UE identifier within the UEID structure.

# 301 Current UE ELEMENT FALSE OCTET Defined in Clause 9.3.10.
ID STRING This shall be used to report the UE ID available at the time of reporting.

# 302 NI Message ELEMENT FALSE OCTET This shall be used to STRING report the Network
Interface message which triggered the UE ID change . Cell Global ID 400 Cell Global ELEMENT FALSE OCTET Defined in Clause 9.3.36. ID STRING This shall be used to report the SpCell ID where the UE belongs to during reporting. UE Context Info Change Defined in Clause 8.1.1.17 UE Context Information related RAN parameters

## 8.3 RAN parameters for INSERT services

### 8.3.1 Approach
The approach for RAN parameters associated with Insert service is provided in Clause 8.0.

### 8.3.2 Radio Bearer Control request

#### 8.3.2.1 DRB QoS Configuration request
The RAN parameters associated with this Insert Indication are listed in Clause 8.4.2.1.

#### 8.3.2.2 QoS flow mapping configuration request
The RAN parameters associated with this Insert Indication are listed in Clause 8.4.2.2.

#### 8.3.2.3 Logical channel configuration request
The RAN parameters associated with this Insert Indication are listed in Clause 8.4.2.3.

#### 8.3.2.4 Radio Bearer Admission Control request
The RAN parameters associated with this Insert Indication are listed in Clause 8.4.2.4.

#### 8.3.2.5 DRB Termination Control request
The RAN parameters associated with this Insert Indication are listed in Clause 8.4.2.5.

#### 8.3.2.6 DRB Split Ratio Control request
The RAN parameters associated with this Insert Indication are listed in Clause 8.4.2.6.

#### 8.3.2.7 PDCP Duplication Control request
The RAN parameters associated with this Insert Indication are listed in Clause 8.4.2.7.

### 8.3.3 Radio Resource Allocation Control request

#### 8.3.3.1 DRX Parameter Configuration request
The RAN parameters associated with this Insert Indication are listed in Clause 8.4.3.1.

#### 8.3.3.2 Scheduling Request Parameter Configuration request
The RAN parameters associated with this Insert Indication are listed in Clause 8.4.3.2.

#### 8.3.3.3 Semi-Persistent Scheduling Parameter Configuration request
The RAN parameters associated with this Insert Indication are listed in Clause 8.4.3.3.

#### 8.3.3.4 Configured Grant Configuration request
The RAN parameters associated with this Insert Indication are listed in Clause 8.4.3.4.

#### 8.3.3.5 CQI table configuration request
The RAN parameters associated with this Insert Indication are listed in Clause 8.4.3.5.

#### 8.3.3.6 Slice-level PRB quota allocation request
The RAN parameters associated with this Insert Indication are listed in Clause 8.4.3.6.

### 8.3.4 Connected Mode Mobility Control Request

#### 8.3.4.1 Handover Control request
The RAN parameters associated with this Insert Indication are listed in Clause 8.4.4.1.

#### 8.3.4.2 Conditional Handover Control request
The RAN parameters associated with this Insert Indication are listed in Clause 8.4.4.2.

#### 8.3.4.3 DAPS Handover Control request
The RAN parameters associated with this Insert Indication are listed in Clause 8.4.4.3.

### 8.3.5 Radio Access Control request

#### 8.3.5.1 UE admission control request
The RAN parameters associated with this Insert Indication are listed in Clause 8.4.5.1.

#### 8.3.5.2 RACH backoff control request
The RAN parameters associated with this Insert Indication are listed in Clause 8.4.5.2.

#### 8.3.5.3 Access barring control request
The RAN parameters associated with this Insert Indication are listed in Clause 8.4.5.3.

#### 8.3.5.4 RRC Connection Release request
The RAN parameters associated with this Insert Indication are listed in Clause 8.4.5.4.

#### 8.3.5.5 RRC Connection Reject request
The RAN parameters associated with this Insert Indication are listed in Clause 8.4.5.5.

### 8.3.6 Dual Connectivity Control request

#### 8.3.6.1 DC Secondary Node Addition Control request
The RAN parameters associated with this Insert Indication are listed in Clause 8.4.6.1.

#### 8.3.6.2 DC Secondary Node Modification Control request
The RAN parameters associated with this Insert Indication are listed in Clause 8.4.6.2.

#### 8.3.6.3 PSCell Change cell for Secondary Cell Group Control request
The RAN parameters associated with this Insert Indication are listed in Clause 8.4.6.3.

#### 8.3.6.4 DC Secondary Node Change Control request
The RAN parameters associated with this Insert Indication are listed in Clause 8.4.6.4.

### 8.3.7 Carrier Aggregation Control request

#### 8.3.7.1 Secondary cell Addition control request
The RAN parameters associated with this Insert Indication are listed in Clause 8.4.7.1.

#### 8.3.7.2 Secondary cell Modification control request
The RAN parameters associated with this Insert Indication are listed in Clause 8.4.7.2.

### 8.3.8 Idle Mode Mobility Control request

#### 8.3.8.1 Cell reselection priority control
The RAN parameters associated with this Insert Indication are listed in Clause 8.4.8.1.

### 8.3.9 Common RAN Parameters for INSERT Service styles
The table below shows the set of RAN parameters that are common for all INSERT service styles.

#### 8.3.9.1 UE Context Information
The associated RAN parameters are given in Clause 8.1.1.17.

#### 8.3.9.2 E2 Node Context Information
The associated RAN parameters are given in Clause 8.1.1.11.

### 8.3.10 Indication Semantics Description for interpretation by the RIC
The E2 node requests the near-RT RIC for the following services as far as the radio bearer Control request is concerned. (a) In the RIC Indication Header IE, the E2 node indicates the Insert Indication ID, that is associated with the Insert Service Style ID for the radio bearer control request, along with the UE ID, so as to enable the RIC to interpret which Insert Indication service pertaining to which UE is being requested by the E2 node. (b) In the RIC Indication Message IE, the E2 node indicates the list of the RAN parameters in the Indication message that it wants to be controlled by the near-RT RIC. If the E2 node does not provide values for these parameters in the RIC Indication message IE, then the RIC would set the values for these parameters in the control action sent via the RIC Control Request message, along with its decision to accept/deny the request raised by the E2 node (indicated in the RIC Indication Header IE). If the RAN parameter indicated by the E2 node is an ELEMENT, the RIC would set the value for the parameter in its RIC Control Request message. If the indicated RAN parameter is a STRUCTURE but if the E2 node does not list any constituent RAN parameter of the STRUCTURE, then the RIC would set the values for all the constituent RAN parameters of the STRUCTURE. If the parameter is a LIST, then: a. If the E2 node also indicates the Key RAN parameter pertaining to the itemized STRUCTURE in the LIST, then the RIC would set the values for all constituent RAN parameters within the structure, pointed by the key. b. If the E2 node does not indicate the Key RAN parameter pertaining to the itemized STRUCTURE in the LIST, then the RIC would set the values for all constituent RAN parameters within each itemized STRUCTURE, whose key RAN parameter is identified by the RIC. (c) If the E2 node provides values for these parameters in the RIC Indication message IE, then the RIC would set the values only for those indicated parameters for which it would choose to replace the values already set by the E2 node. It also communicates its decision to accept/deny the request raised by the E2 node for the DRB. (d) Any RAN parameter identified as a key shall always carry a value set by the E2 node, if the E2 node expects the RIC to control the parameters pertaining to the STRUCTURE pointed by the E2 node. The value of this key RAN parameter is an index that points to the entire STRUCTURE, and hence the value of the key RAN parameter cannot be modified by the near-RT RIC. Without indicating the value for the key RAN parameter, the RIC would not control the parameters associated with the structure indexed by the key. Note that the RIC can only set the values for those RAN parameters identified as ELEMENT when they are indicated by the E2 node; however, these RAN parameters can be contained with a STRUCTURE or within an itemized STRUCTURE in a LIST. Also, if the DRB ID key parameter is not present for any DRB in the RIC Indication Message IE, then the RIC would discard the RIC Indication message. And the E2 node would have to set values based on its default radio resource management policies upon time out, and continue with the ongoing call processing. Hence, indicating the DRB ID IE for the DRB(s) is a pre-requisite for the RIC to act on the Insert indication via its RIC Control Request message.

## 8.4 RAN Parameters for Control Actions

### 8.4.1 Approach
The approach for RAN parameters associated with Control service is provided in Clause 8.0. In the case of CONTROL action for UE group-based control (using E2SM-RC Control Header Format 3 and E2SM-RC Control Message Format 3), since the control action can be applied as a whole on multiple UEs constituting the group, the RAN parameters, whose key flag value is set to “true”, shall not be used here, since they are only used for UE-specific entities. Instead, as provided in E2SM-RC Control Message Format 3, the Entity Filter Definition IE (from E2SM-RC Control Message Format 3 in Clause 9.2.1.7.3) is used to define the entity filter and specify the corresponding set of filtering conditions towards determining the relevant entities (such as DRBs, QoS flows, etc.) pertaining to the UE group for which the control action is applicable. Each entity filter is identified by the Entity Filter ID IE. There may be more than one entity for the same UE group, whose associated RAN parameters can be controlled by the RIC using a single RIC CONTROL REQUEST message with the same Control Action ID IE. The control parameters, specific to a given set of entities, corresponding to the Entity Filter ID IE, are assigned values by the RIC. The list of all entity filters for the UE group are mentioned in List of entity filters IE. The control parameters are identified by the List of RAN control Parameters for the matching entities IE in E2SM- RC Control Message Format 3 (in Clause 9.2.1.7.3) and correspond to each Entity Filter ID IE. The control action is then applied (based on the approach in Clause 8.0) individually on all the applicable entities (e.g., all the applicable DRBs) pertaining to the UE group, subject to the filtering criteria. For e.g., if PDCP duplication needs to be activated on all DRBs corresponding to 5QI 82 for the URLLC slice (SST 2) and if the number of duplicate PDCP paths needs to be set to 3, then the Entity Filter Definition IE in E2SM-RC Control Message Format 3 (Sec 9.2.1.7.3) can be used to specify conditions that can match all DRBs pertaining to the 5QI of 82, and the List of RAN control parameters for the matching entities IE can be used to indicate the PDCP duplication configuration parameters, which shall later be applied by the E2 node individually on all the applicable DRBs across the corresponding UEs of the URLLC slice that constitute the UE group. The UE group control action may also be entity-agnostic. That is, the control action may not pertain to specific entities of the UEs, but may apply to the UEs as a whole. The List of entity filters IE is therefore optional. As an example, if A3 offset needs to be set to 4 dB for all UEs with NR-CGI “xyz” as their primary SpCell, the control action in this case is entity-agnostic, as the control action shall be applied on all UEs with NR-CG “xyz” as their SpCell, irrespective of their entities. Thus, if the control action is entity agnostic, then the List of entity filters IE is not present and the List of RAN control parameters IE is used to indicate the control parameters for the control action applied on the UE group. In the E2SM-RC Control Header Format 3 IE shown in Clause 9.2.1.6.3, the UE Group ID IE and the UE Group Definition IE are used to uniquely identify and define the logical grouping of the UEs based on the list of RAN parameters from Clause 8.1.3, respectively. The RIC Style Type IE is used to refer to the RIC Control Service Style type and the Control Action ID IE is used to refer to a given control action within the RIC Control Service Style type.

### 8.4.2 Radio Bearer Control

#### 8.4.2.1 DRB QoS Configuration
Upon receiving the RIC Control Request message, the E2 node shall invoke procedures related to DRB QoS Configuration, such as Bearer Context Management, UE Context Management, RRC Message Transfer, etc. and include the IEs corresponding to one or more of parameters described below in the related interface messages. If the DRB ID is missing in the RIC Control Request message, the E2 node will send a RIC Control Failure. In the case of UE group-based control action, where the relevant entities include more than one DRB subject to QoS configuration, the above procedures are individually invoked for each applicable DRB pertaining to each individual UE of the group. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key Flag RAN Parameter Semantics Parameter Parameter Definition Description ID Value Type DRB ID ELEMENT TRUE DRB ID IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.16 5QI ELEMENT FALSE 5QI IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.27 or TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.28 Packet Delay ELEMENT FALSE Packet Delay Budget IE in Budget TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.47

# 4 Packet Error Rate STRUCTURE Packet Error Rate IE
in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.48 >Scalar factor ELEMENT FALSE Scalar IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.48 >Exponent factor ELEMENT FALSE Exponent IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.48

# 7 NG-RAN DRB STRUCTURE NG-RAN Allocation
Allocation and and Retention Priority Retention Priority IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.29 >Priority Level ELEMENT FALSE Priority Level IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.29

# 9 >Pre-emption ELEMENT FALSE Pre-emption Capability IE
Capability in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.29

# 10 >Pre-emption ELEMENT FALSE Pre-emption Vulnerability
Vulnerability IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.29 Priority Level of the ELEMENT FALSE Priority Level IE in TS mapped QoS flows 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.51

# 12 QoS parameters for STRUCTURE GBR QoS Flow
GBR flows in NG- Information IE in TS RAN Bearer 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.30 >Maximum Flow Bit ELEMENT FALSE Bit Rate IE in TS 37.483 Rate Downlink [21] Clause 9.3.1.30 >Guaranteed Flow ELEMENT FALSE Bit Rate IE in TS 37.483 Bit Rate Downlink [21] Clause 9.3.1.30 >Maximum Packet ELEMENT FALSE Packet Loss Rate IE in TS Loss Rate 37.483 [21] Clause Downlink 9.3.1.30 >Maximum Flow Bit ELEMENT FALSE Bit Rate IE in TS 37.483 Rate Uplink [21] Clause 9.3.1.30 >Guaranteed Flow ELEMENT FALSE Bit Rate IE in TS 37.483 Bit Rate Uplink [21] Clause 9.3.1.30 >Maximum Packet ELEMENT FALSE Packet Loss Rate IE in TS Loss Rate Uplink 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.30

# 19 QoS Monitoring ELEMENT FALSE QoS Monitoring Request
Enable Request IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.26

# 20 QoS Monitoring ELEMENT FALSE QoS Monitoring Reporting
Reporting Frequency IE in TS Frequency 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.26

# 21 QoS Monitoring ELEMENT FALSE QoS Monitoring Disabled
Disabled IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.26 Reflective QoS ELEMENT FALSE RDI IE in TS 37.483 [21] Mapping Clause 9.3.1.26

#### 8.4.2.2 QoS flow mapping configuration
Upon receiving the RIC Control Request message, the E2 node shall invoke procedures related to QoS flow mapping Configuration, such as Bearer Context Management, UE Context Management, RRC Message Transfer, etc. and include the IEs corresponding to one or more of parameters described below in the related interface messages. If the DRB ID is missing in the RIC Control Request message, the E2 node will send a RIC Control Failure. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key RAN Parameter Semantics Parameter Parameter Flag Definition Description ID Value Type DRB ID ELEMENT TRUE DRB ID IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.16

# 5 >>QoS Flow ELEMENT FALSE QoS Flow Mapping
Mapping Indication Indication IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.60

#### 8.4.2.3 Logical channel configuration
Upon receiving the RIC Control Request message, the E2 node shall invoke procedures related to Logical channel Configuration, such as RRC Message Transfer, etc. and include the IEs corresponding to one or more of parameters described below in the related RRC messages. If the DRB ID is missing in the RIC Control Request message, the E2 node will send a RIC Control Failure. In the case of UE group-based control action, where the relevant entities include more than one DRB subject to LCID configuration, the above procedures are individually invoked for each applicable DRB pertaining to each individual UE of the group. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key RAN Parameter Semantics Description Parameter Parameter Flag Definition ID Value Type

# 6 >>UL ELEMENT FALSE UL Configuration IE
Configuration in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.33 List of cell groups to LIST Cell Group To Modify IE in be modified TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.11 >Cell group item STRUCTURE Cell Group Item IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.11 >>Cell Group ID ELEMENT TRUE Cell Group ID IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.11

# 10 >>UL ELEMENT FALSE UL Configuration IE
Configuration in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.11 List of cell groups to LIST Cell Group To Remove IE be removed in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.11 >Cell group item STRUCTURE Cell Group Item IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.11 >>Cell Group ID ELEMENT FALSE Cell Group ID IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.11

# 14 Uplink Specific STRUCTURE ul-SpecificParameters IE
Parameters in TS 38.331 [22] Clause

# 15 >Priority ELEMENT FALSE priority IE in TS
38.331 [22] Clause

# 16 >Prioritized Bit rate ELEMENT FALSE prioritisedBitRate IE
in TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 17 >Bucket Size ELEMENT FALSE bucketSizeDuration
Duration IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 18 >List of Allowed LIST allowedServingCells IE in Serving Cells TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 19 >>Allowed STRUCTURE
Serving Cell Item

# 20 >>>Serving ELEMENT FALSE ServCellIndex IE in Cell Index TS 38.331 [22]
Clause 6 >List of Allowed SCS LIST allowedSCS-List IE in TS Configuration 38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 22 >>Allowed SCS STRUCTURE
Configuration Item

# 23 >>Subcarrier ELEMENT FALSE SubCarrierSpacing
Spacing IE in TS 38.331 [22] Configuration Clause 6

# 24 >Maximum PUSCH ELEMENT FALSE maxPUSCH- Duration Duration IE in TS
38.331 [22] Sec 6

# 25 >Configured Grant ELEMENT FALSE configuredGrantTyp
Type 1 Allowed eAllowed IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause

# 26 >Logical Channel SR ELEMENT FALSE logicalChannelSR- – Mask Mask IE in TS
38.331 [22] Clause

# 27 >Logical Channel SR ELEMENT FALSE logicalChannelSR- – Delay Timer DelayTimerApplied
Applied IE in TS 38.331 [22] Sec 6

# 28 >Bit Rate Query ELEMENT FALSE bitRateQueryProhibi
Prohibit Timer tTimer IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause

# 29 >RLC re- ELEMENT FALSE reestablishRLC IE in establishment TS 38.331 [22]

# 30 >Logical Channel ELEMENT FALSE logicalChannelGrou
Group p IE in TS 38.331 [22]

#### 8.4.2.4 Radio Bearer Admission Control
Upon receiving the RIC Control Request message, the E2 node shall invoke procedures related to Radio Bearer Admission Control, such as Bearer Context Management, UE Context Management, RRC Message Transfer, etc. and include the IEs corresponding to one or more of parameters described below in the related interface messages. If the DRB ID is missing in the RIC Control Request message, the E2 node will send a RIC Control Failure. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key Flag RAN Parameter Semantics description Parameter Parameter Definition ID Value Type DRB Identity ELEMENT TRUE DRB ID IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.16 List of cell groups LIST Cell Group To Add IE in TS to be added 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.3.11 >Cell group item STRUCTURE Cell Group Item IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.11 >>Cell Group ELEMENT TRUE Cell Group ID IE in ID TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.11

# 5 SDAP STRUCTURE SDAP Configuration IE in Configuration TS 37.483 [21] Clause
9.3.1.39

# 6 >PDU Session ID ELEMENT FALSE PDU-SessionID IE in TS 38.331 [22] Sec 6
>Default DRB ELEMENT FALSE Default DRB IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.39

# 8 PDCP STRUCTURE PDCP Configuration IE in Configuration TS 37.483 [21] Clause
9.3.1.38 >RLC mode ELEMENT FALSE RLC mode IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.38

# 10 >PDCP Duplication ELEMENT FALSE PDCP Duplication IE
in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.38

# 11 >UL Data Split ELEMENT FALSE UL Data Split
Threshold Threshold IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.43

# 12 >PDCP Re- ELEMENT FALSE PDCP Re- establishment establishment IE in
TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.38

# 13 >PDCP Data ELEMENT FALSE PDCP Data
Recovery Recovery IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.38

# 14 >Out-of-Order ELEMENT FALSE Out of Order Delivery
Delivery IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.38

# 15 >PDCP Status ELEMENT FALSE PDCP Status Report
Report Indication Indication IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.38

# 16 >Number of PDCP ELEMENT FALSE Additional PDCP
duplication duplication Information IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.38 >UL More than one STRUCTURE moreThanOneRLC IE in TS RLC 38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 18 >>Primary Path STRUCTURE primaryPath IE in TS 38.331
[22] Clause 6

# 19 >>>Cell ELEMENT TRUE cellGroup IE in TS
Group ID 38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 20 >>>Logical ELEMENT FALSE logicalChannel IE in Channel ID TS 38.331 [22] Sec 6

# 21 >UL More than two STRUCTURE moreThanTwoRLC-DRB-r16
RLC IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause

# 22 >>Split ELEMENT FALSE splitSecondaryPath
Secondary Path IE in TS 38.331 [22] Sec 6

# 23 >>Duplication ELEMENT FALSE duplicationState IE in State TS 38.331 [22] Sec 6
>DL More than one STRUCTURE moreThanOneRLC IE in TS RLC 38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 18 >>Primary Path STRUCTURE primaryPath IE in TS 38.331
[22] Clause 6

# 19 >>>Cell ELEMENT TRUE cellGroup IE in TS
Group ID 38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 20 >>>Logical ELEMENT FALSE logicalChannel IE in Channel ID TS 38.331 [22] Sec 6

# 21 >DL More than two STRUCTURE moreThanTwoRLC-DRB-r16
RLC IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause

# 22 >>Split ELEMENT FALSE splitSecondaryPath
Secondary Path IE in TS 38.331 [22] Sec 6

# 23 >>Duplication ELEMENT FALSE duplicationState IE in State TS 38.331 [22] Sec 6

#### 8.4.2.5 DRB Termination Control
Upon receiving the RIC Control Request message, the E2 node shall invoke procedures related to DRB Termination change, such as Dual Connectivity Secondary Node Modification (MN/SN initiated), UE Context Management, RRC Message Transfer, etc. and include the IEs corresponding to one or more of parameters described below in the related interface messages. If the DRB ID is missing in the RIC Control Request message, the E2 node will send a RIC Control Failure. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key RAN Parameter Semantics Description Parameter Parameter Param definition ID Value Type List of DRBs to be LIST DRBs To Be Modified IE in TS modified to SN- 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.11 Termination >DRB Item to be STRUCTURE DRBs To Be Modified Item IE modified to SN- in TS 38.423 [15] Clause Termination 9.2.1.11 >>DRB ID ELEMENT TRUE DRB ID IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.33

# 4 >>Logical ELEMENT FALSE LCID IE in TS
Channel ID 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.70

# 5 >>RLC Status ELEMENT FALSE RLC Status IE in TS 38.423 [15]
Clause 9.2.3.80 >>List of QoS LIST QoS Flows List IE in TS flows to be 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.15 modified to SN- Termination >>>QoS flow STRUCTURE QoS Flow Item IE in TS item 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.15

# 8 >>>>QoS ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow Identifier
flow ID IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.15

# 9 >>>>QoS ELEMENT FALSE QoS Flow Mapping
Flow Indication IE in TS Mapping 38.423 [15] Clause Indication 9.2.1.15 List of DRBs to be LIST DRBs To Be Modified IE in TS modified to MN- 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.9 Termination >DRB Item to be STRUCTURE DRBs To Be Modified Item IE modified to MN- in TS 38.423 [15] Clause Termination 9.2.1.9 >>DRB ID ELEMENT TRUE DRB ID IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.33

# 13 >>Logical ELEMENT FALSE LCID IE in TS
Channel ID 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.70

# 14 >>RLC Status ELEMENT FALSE RLC Status IE in TS 38.423 [15]
Clause 9.2.3.80 >>List of QoS LIST QoS Flows List IE in TS flows to be 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.15 modified to SN- Termination >>>QoS flow STRUCTURE QoS Flow Item IE in TS item 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.15

# 17 >>>>QoS ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow Identifier
flow IE in TS 38.423 Identifier [15] Clause 9.2.3.10

# 18 >>>>QoS ELEMENT FALSE QoS Flow Mapping
Flow Indication IE in TS Mapping 38.423 [15] Clause Indication 9.2.1.15

#### 8.4.2.6 DRB Split Ratio Control
Upon receiving the RIC Control Request message, in the presence of Downlink PDCP Data Split IE, the E2 node shall split the downlink PDCP traffic between the Master Node and Secondary Node over the X2/Xn interface based on the recommended ratio. In the presence of Uplink PDCP Data Split Threshold IE, the E2 node shall invoke procedures related to DRB Split Ratio Control, such as Bearer Context Management, UE Context Management, RRC Message Transfer, etc. and include the IEs corresponding to one or more of parameters described below in the related interface messages. If the DRB ID is missing in the RIC Control Request message, the E2 node will send a RIC Control Failure. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key Flag RAN Parameter Semantics Description Parameter Parameter Definition ID Value Type DRB ID ELEMENT TRUE DRB ID IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.16

#### 8.4.2.7 PDCP Duplication Control
Upon receiving the RIC Control Request message, the E2 node shall invoke procedures related to PDCP Duplication Control, such as Bearer Context Management, UE Context Management, RRC Message Transfer, etc. and include the IEs corresponding to one or more of parameters described below in the related interface messages. If the DRB ID is missing in the RIC Control Request message, the E2 node will send a RIC Control Failure. In the case of UE group-based control action, where the relevant entities include more than one DRB subject to the PDCP duplication control action, the above procedures are individually invoked for each applicable DRB pertaining to each individual UE of the group. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key Flag RAN Parameter Semantics Description Parameter Parameter Definition ID Value Type DRB ID ELEMENT TRUE DRB ID IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.16

# 3 UL More Than One STRUCTURE moreThanOneRLC IE in RLC TS 38.331 [22]

# 4 >Primary Path STRUCTURE primaryPath IE in TS
38.331 [22] Clause 6 >>Cell Group ID ELEMENT TRUE cellGroup IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 6 >>Logical ELEMENT FALSE logicalChannel IE in Channel ID TS 38.331 [22] Sec 6

# 7 UL More Than Two STRUCTURE moreThanTwoRLC-DRB- RLC r16 IE in TS 38.331 [22]
Clause 6

# 8 >Split Secondary ELEMENT FALSE splitSecondaryPath
Path IE in TS 38.331 [22] Sec 6

# 9 >Duplication State ELEMENT FALSE duplicationState IE in TS 38.331 [22] Sec 6

# 10 PDCP Duplication ELEMENT FALSE Duplication
Activation Activation IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.38

# 11 Number of PDCP ELEMENT FALSE Additional PDCP
duplication duplication Information IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.38

### 8.4.3 Radio Resource Allocation Control

#### 8.4.3.1 DRX Parameter Configuration
Upon receiving the RIC Control Request message, the E2 node shall invoke procedures related to DRX Parameter Configuration, such as UE Context Management, RRC Message Transfer, etc. and include the IEs corresponding to one or more of parameters described below in the related interface messages. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key Flag RAN Parameter Semantics Description Parameter Parameter Definition ID Value Type Long DRX Cycle ELEMENT FALSE Long DRX Cycle Length Length IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.24

#### 8.4.3.2 Scheduling Request Parameter Configuration
Upon receiving the RIC Control Request message, the E2 node shall invoke procedures related to Scheduling Request Parameter Configuration, such as UE Context Management, RRC Message Transfer, etc. and include the IEs corresponding to one or more of parameters described below in the related interface messages. If the Scheduling Request ID is missing in the RIC Control Request message, the E2 node will send a RIC Control Failure. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key RAN Parameter Semantics Description Parameter Parameter Param Definition ID Value Type

# 3 >>Scheduling ELEMENT TRUE SchedulingRequestId
Request ID IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 4 >>SR Prohibit ELEMENT FALSE sr-ProhibitTimer IE in Timer TS 38.331 [22]

# 5 >>SR ELEMENT FALSE sr-TransMax IE in TS
Transmission 38.331 [22] Max

# 6 List of Scheduling LIST schedulingRequestToRele
Requests for release aseList IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 7 >Scheduling STRUCTURE
Request Item

# 8 >>Scheduling ELEMENT TRUE SchedulingRequestId
Request ID IE in TS 38.331 [22]

#### 8.4.3.3 Semi-Persistent Scheduling Parameter Configuration
Upon receiving the RIC Control Request message, the E2 node shall invoke procedures related to Scheduling Request Parameter Configuration, such as RRC Message Transfer, etc. and include the IEs corresponding to one or more of parameters described below in the related interface messages. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key Flag RAN Parameter Semantics Description Parameter Parameter Definition ID Value Type

# 3 >Number of HARQ ELEMENT FALSE nrofHARQ- Processes Processes IE in TS
38.331 [22] Clause

# 4 >MCS Table ELEMENT FALSE mcs-Table IE in TS
38.331 [22] Clause

#### 8.4.3.4 Configured Grant Configuration
Upon receiving the RIC Control Request message, the E2 node shall invoke procedures related to Scheduling Request Parameter Configuration, such as RRC Message Transfer, etc. and include the IEs corresponding to one or more of parameters described below in the related interface messages. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key Flag RAN Parameter Semantics Description Parameter Parameter Definition ID Value Type

# 3 >MCS Table Without ELEMENT FALSE Mcs- Transform Precoder TableTransformPreco
der IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause

# 4 >Resource Allocation ELEMENT FALSE resourceAllocation IE
in TS 38.331 [22] Clause

# 5 >Number of HARQ ELEMENT FALSE nrofHARQ-Processes
processes IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause

# 6 >HARQ ELEMENT FALSE nrofHARQ-Process
retransmissions IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause >Number of ELEMENT FALSE repK IE in TS 38.331 repetitions of HARQ [22] Clause PDU

# 8 >Redundancy ELEMENT FALSE repK-RV IE in TS
Version Format 38.331 [22] Clause

# 9 >UL Transmission ELEMENT FALSE periodicity IE in TS
periodicity 38.331 [22] Clause

# 10 >Configured grant ELEMENT FALSE configuredGrantTimer
timer IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause

# 11 >RRC Configured STRUCTURE rrc- Uplink Grant ConfiguredUplinkGrant
IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause

# 12 >>Time Domain ELEMENT FALSE timeDomainOffset IE
Offset in TS 38.331 [22] Clause

# 13 >>Time Domain ELEMENT FALSE timeDomainAllocation
Allocation IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause

# 14 >>Frequency ELEMENT FALSE frequencyDomainAllo
Domain Allocation cation IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause

# 15 >>Antenna Port ELEMENT FALSE antennaPort IE in TS
38.331 [22] Clause

# 16 >>Precoding and ELEMENT FALSE precodingAndNumbe
number of layers rOfLayers IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause >>MCS and TBS ELEMENT FALSE mcsAndTBS IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause

# 18 >>Path Loss ELEMENT FALSE pathlossReferenceIn
Reference Index dex IE in TS 38.331 [22]

#### 8.4.3.5 CSI Report Configuration
Upon receiving the RIC Control Request message, the E2 node shall invoke procedures related to CSI Report Configuration, such as RRC Message Transfer, etc. and include the IEs corresponding to one or more of parameters described below in the related interface messages. If the CSI Report Config ID is missing in the RIC Control Request message, the E2 node will send a RIC Control Failure. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key Param RAN Parameter Semantics Description Parameter Name Parameter Definition ID Value Type

# 3 >>CSI Report ELEMENT TRUE CSI-ReportConfigID
Config ID IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause

# 4 >>Carrier ELEMENT FALSE ServCellIndex IE in TS 38.331 [22]
Clause

# 5 >>CQI- ELEMENT FALSE cqi-FormatIndicator
FormatIndicator IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause

# 6 >>PMI- ELEMENT FALSE pmi-FormatIndicator
FormatIndicator IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause

# 7 >>CQI Table ELEMENT FALSE cqi-Table IE in TS
38.331 [22] Clause

# 8 >>Sub-band size ELEMENT FALSE subbandSize IE in TS 38.331 [22]
Clause

# 9 >>Resources for ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER resourcesForChannelMea
Channel surement IE in TS 38.331 Measurement [22] Clause 6

# 10 >>CSI-IM ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER csi-IM- Resources for ResourcesForInterference
Interference IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 11 >>NZP-CSI-RS ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER nzp-CSI-RS- Resources for ResourcesForInterference
Interference IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6 >>Report Config ELEMENT FALSE OCTET STRING reportConfigType IE in TS Type 38.331 [22] Clause 6 >>Report Quantity ELEMENT FALSE OCTET STRING reportQuantity IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6 >>CSI Reporting ELEMENT FALSE OCTET STRING csi-ReportingBand IE in Band TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 15 >>Time Restriction ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER timeRestrictionForChanne
for Channel lMeasurements IE in TS Measurements 38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 16 >>Time Restriction ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER timeRestrictionForInterfer
for Interference enceMeasurements IE in Measurements TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6 >>Codebook ELEMENT FALSE OCTET STRING CodebookConfig IE in TS Configuration Item 38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 18 >>Group Based ELEMENT FALSE OCTET STRING groupBasedBeamReporti
Beam Reporting ng IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 19 List of CSI Report LIST csi- Configurations to ReportConfigToReleaseLi
Release st IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 20 >CSI Report STRUCTURE
Configuration Item

# 21 >>CSI Report ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER CSI-ReportConfigId IE in Config ID TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6

#### 8.4.3.6 Slice-level PRB quota
Upon receiving the RIC Control Request message, the E2 node allocates slice-specific PRB quota for the indicated S-NSSAI in terms of the maximum PRB allocation ratio, minimum PRB allocation ratio and dedicated PRB allocation ratio for the given slice among the available set of PRBs. If the S-NSSAI is missing in the RIC Control Request message, the E2 node will send a RIC Control Failure. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key RAN Parameter Semantics Parameter Parameter Flag Definition Description ID Value Type

# 3 >>RRM Policy STRUCTURE RRMPolicy in TS
28.541

# 5 >>RRM Policy Member List LIST RRMPolicyMemb
0..<maxnoofRRM erList in TS PolicyMembers> 28.541

# 6 >>>>RRM Policy STRUCTURE RRMPolicyMemb
Member er in TS 28.541

# 7 >>>>>PLMN Identity ELEMENT FALSE PLMN Identity IE
in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.14

# 8 >>>>>S-NSSAI STRUCTURE S-NSSAI IE in TS
38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.38

# 9 >>>>>>SST ELEMENT FALSE SST IE in TS
38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.38

# 10 >>>>>>SD ELEMENT FALSE SD IE in TS
38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.38 >>Min PRB Policy Ratio ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0..100) rRMPolicyMinRat io IE in TS 28.541 >>Max PRB Policy Ratio ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0..100) rRMPolicyMaxRa tio IE in TS 28.541 >>Dedicated PRB Policy Ratio ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0..100) rRMPolicyDedica tedRatio IE in TS 28.541 Range bound Explanation maxnoofRRMPolicyRatioGroups Maximum no. of RAN parameters supported by RAN Function for a specific Control action. The value is <65535>. maxnoofRRMPolicyMembers Maximum no. of RAN parameters supported by RAN Function for a specific Control action. The value is <65535>

#### 8.4.3.7 DMRS Resource Configuration
Upon receiving the RIC Control Request message, the E2 node shall invoke procedures related to DMRS Configuration, such as RRC Message Transfer, etc. and include the IEs corresponding to one or more of parameters described below in the related interface messages. If the DMRS-DownlinkConfig is missing in the RIC Control Request message, the E2 node will send a RIC Control Failure. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key Flag RAN Parameter Semantics Parameter Parameter Definition Description ID Value Type

#### 8.4.3.8 SRS Configuration
Upon receiving the RIC Control Request message, the E2 node shall invoke procedures related to SRS Table Configuration, such as RRC Message Transfer, etc. and include the IEs corresponding to one or more of parameters described below in the related interface messages. If the SRS Resource ID or SRS Resource Set ID are missing in the RIC Control Request message, the E2 node will send a RIC Control Failure. RAN RAN Parameter Name RAN Key RAN Parameter Semantics Parameter Parameter Flag Definition Description ID Value Type List of SRS Resources to Add or LIST srs- Modify ResourceToAdd ModList IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 3 >>SRS Resource ELEMENT FALSE OCTET STRING SRS-Resource IE
in TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6 List of SRS Resources to Release LIST srs- ResourceToRele aseList IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 5 >SRS Resource Item STRUCTURE
>>SRS Resource ID ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER SRS-ResourceId

# 6 IE in TS 38.331
[22] Clause 6 List of SRS Resource Sets to Add LIST srs- or Modify ResourceSetToA ddModList IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 8 >SRS Resource Set Item STRUCTURE
>>SRS Resource Set ELEMENT FALSE OCTET STRING SRS- ResourceSet IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6 List of SRS Resource Sets to LIST srs- Release ResourceSetToR eleaseList IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 11 >SRS Resource Set Item STRUCTURE
>>SRS Resource Set ID ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER SRS- ResourceSetId IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6

#### 8.4.3.9 CSI Resource Configuration
Upon receiving the RIC Control Request message, the E2 node shall invoke procedures related to CSI Resource Table Configuration, such as RRC Message Transfer, etc. and include the IEs corresponding to one or more of parameters described below in the related interface messages. If the CSI Resource Configuration ID is missing in the RIC Control Request message, the E2 node will send a RIC Control Failure. RAN RAN Parameter Name RAN Key RAN Parameter Semantics Parameter Parameter Flag Definition Description ID Value Type List of CSI Resource Configuration LIST csi- to Add or Modify ResourceConfigT oAddModList IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 5 >CSI Resource Configuration Item STRUCTURE
>>CSI Resource Configuration ID ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER CSI- ResourceConfigI d IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6 NZP CSI-RS Resource Set to Add LIST nzp-CSI-RS- or Modify ResourceSetToA ddModList IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 8 >NZP CSI-RS Resource Set Item
>>NZP CSI-RS Resource Set ELEMENT FALSE OCTET STRING NZP-CSI-RS- ResourceSet IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6 NZP CSI-RS Resource Set to LIST nzp-CSI-RS- Release ResourceSetToR eleaseList IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 11 >NZP CSI-RS Resource Set Item STRUCTURE
>>NZP CSI-RS Resource Set ID ELEMENT INTEGER nzp-CSI-RS- ResourceSetId IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6 NZP CSI-RS Resource to Add or LIST nzp-CSI-RS- Modify ResourceToAdd

# 13 ModList IE in TS
38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 14 >NZP CSI-RS Resource Item STRUCTURE
>>NZP CSI-RS Resource ELEMENT FALSE OCTET STRING NZP-CSI-RS- Resource IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6 TCI States to Add or Modify LIST tci- StatesToAddMod

# 16 List IE in TS
38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 17 >TCI State Item STRUCTURE
>>TCI State ELEMENT FALSE OCTET STRING tci-State IE in TS

# 18 38.331 [22]
Clause 6 TCI States to Release LIST tci- StatesToRelease

# 19 List IE in TS
38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 20 >TCI State Item STRUCTURE
>>TCI State ID ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER tci-StateId IE in

# 21 TS 38.331 [22]
Clause 6 NZP CSI-RS Resource to Release LIST nzp-CSI-RS- ResourceToRele aseList IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 23 >NZP CSI-RS Resource Item STRUCTURE
>>NZP CSI-RS Resource ID ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER nzp-CSI-RS- ResourceId IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6 CSI SSB Resource Set to Add or LIST csi-SSB- Modify ResourceSetToA ddModList IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 26 >CSI SSB Resource Set Item STRUCTURE
>>CSI SSB Resource ELEMENT FALSE OCTET STRING csi-SSB- ResourceSet IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6 CSI SSB Resource Set to Release LIST csi-SSB- ResourceSetToR eleaseList IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 29 >CSI SSB Resource Set Item STRUCTURE
>>CSI SSB Resource Set ID ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER csi-SSB- ResourceSetId IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6 CSI-IM Resource Set to Add or LIST csi-IM- Modify ResourceSetToA ddModList IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 32 >CSI-IM Resource Set Item STRUCTURE
>>CSI-IM Resource Set ELEMENT FALSE OCTET STRING csi-IM- ResourceSet IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6 CSI-IM Resource Set to Release LIST csi-IM- ResourceSetToR eleaseList IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 35 >CSI-IM Resource Set Item STRUCTURE
>>CSI SSB Resource Set ID ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER csi-IM- ResourceSetId IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6 CSI-IM Resource to Add or Modify LIST csi-IM- ResourceToAdd

# 37 ModList IE in TS
38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 38 >CSI-IM Resource Item STRUCTURE
>>CSI-IM Resource ELEMENT FALSE OCTET STRING CSI-IM-Resource

# 39 IE in TS 38.331
[22] Clause 6 CSI-IM Resource to Release LIST csi-IM- ResourceToRele aseList IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 41 >CSI-IM Resource Item STRUCTURE
>>CSI-IM Resource ID ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER CSI-IM- ResourceId IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6

#### 8.4.3.10 Uplink power control
Upon receiving the RIC Control Request message, the E2 node shall initiate open-loop or closed-loop power control, as implemented within the E2 Node. Uplink transmission power is controlled for the intended UE to achieve the indicated target uplink SINR or target received uplink power. The specific method used for uplink power control depends on implementations.
> NOTE: Only one RAN parameter can be configured per each RIC Control Request message.
RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key Flag RAN Parameter Semantic Description Parameter Parameter Definition ID Value Type Target uplink SINR ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER(-10..40) This indicates the target uplink SINR. Target received ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER(-202..24) This indicates the target uplink power received uplink power.

### 8.4.4 Connected Mode Mobility Control

#### 8.4.4.1 Handover Control
Upon receiving the RIC Control Request message, in the case of Xn/X2 or NG or inter-RAT handovers, the E2 node shall invoke procedures, such as Handover Preparation related to UE Mobility Management, Bearer Context Modification, UE Context Modification, RRC Message Transfer, etc. In the case of intra-gNB or F1 handover, the E2 node shall invoke procedures, such as UE Context Modification, RRC Message Transfer, etc. The E2 node includes the IEs corresponding to one or more of parameters described below in the related interface messages. If the Target Primary Cell ID IE is missing in the RIC Control Request message, the E2 node will send a RIC Control Failure message. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key Flag RAN Parameter Semantics Description Parameter Parameter Definition ID Value Type Target Primary Cell ID STRUCTURE Target Cell Global ID IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.25 >CHOICE Target Cell STRUCTURE Target Cell IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.25 >>NR Cell STRUCTURE NR IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.25 >>>NR CGI ELEMENT FALSE NR CGI IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.2.7

# 5 >>E-UTRA Cell STRUCTURE E-UTRA IE in TS 38.423
[15] Clause 9.2.3.25

# 6 >>>E-UTRA ELEMENT FALSE E-UTRA CGI IE in CGI TS 38.423 [15]
Clause 9.2.2.8

# 7 List of PDU sessions LIST PDU Session Resources
for handover To Be Setup List IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.1

# 8 >PDU session Item for STRUCTURE PDU Session Resources
handover To Be Setup Item IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.1 >>PDU Session ID ELEMENT TRUE PDU Session ID IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.18 >>List of QoS flows LIST QoS Flows To Be Setup in the PDU session List IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.1

# 11 >>>QoS flow STRUCTURE QoS Flow To Be Setup
Item Item IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.1

# 12 >>>>QoS ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow Identifier
Flow IE in TS 38.423 Identifier [15] Clause 9.2.3.10 List of DRBs for LIST DRB to Be Setup List IE handover in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.1 >DRB item for STRUCTURE DRB to Be Setup Item IE handover in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.1 >>DRB ID ELEMENT TRUE DRB ID IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.8

# 16 >>List of QoS flows LIST QoS Flows Information
in the DRB To Be Setup IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.3.2 >>>QoS flow STRUCTURE QoS Flow Item IE in TS Item 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.25

# 18 >>>>QoS ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow Identifier
flow IE in TS 37.483 Identifier [21] Clause 9.3.1.24 List of Secondary cells LIST Scell To Be Setup List IE to be setup in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.1 >Secondary cell Item STRUCTURE Scell To Be Setup Item to be setup Ies IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.1 >>Secondary cell ELEMENT FALSE Scell ID IE in TS ID 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.1

#### 8.4.4.2 Conditional Handover Control
Upon receiving the RIC Control Request message, in the case of Xn/X2 or NG or inter-RAT conditional handovers, the E2 node shall invoke procedures, such as Handover Preparation related to UE Mobility Management, Bearer Context Modification, UE Context Modification, RRC Message Transfer, etc. involving the candidate target cells (note that there is only one Handover Preparation in the case of NG or inter-RAT handovers). In the case of intra-gNB or F1 conditional handover, the E2 node shall invoke procedures, such as UE Context Modification, RRC Message Transfer, etc. The E2 node includes the IEs corresponding to one or more of parameters described below in the related interface messages. If the Target Cell IE is missing in the RIC Control Request message, the E2 node will send a RIC Control Failure message. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key Param RAN Parameter Semantics Parameter Parameter Definition Description ID Value Type

# 3 >>CHOICE Target Cell STRUCTURE Target Cell IE in TS 38.423 [15]
Clause 9.2.3.25

# 4 >>>NR STRUCTURE NR IE in TS
38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.25 >>>>NR CGI ELEMENT FALSE NR CGI IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.2.7

# 6 >>>E-UTRA STRUCTURE E-UTRA IE in TS
38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.25

# 7 >>>>E-UTRA ELEMENT FALSE E-UTRA CGI IE in CGI TS 38.423 [15]
Clause 9.2.2.8

# 8 >>Estimated Arrival ELEMENT FALSE
Probability

# 9 List of PDU sessions for LIST PDU Session
handover Resources To Be Setup List IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.1

# 10 >PDU session Item for STRUCTURE PDU Session
handover Resources To Be Setup Item IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.1

# 11 >>PDU Session ID ELEMENT TRUE PDU Session ID
IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.18 >>List of QoS flows in LIST QoS Flows To Be the PDU session Setup List IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.1

# 13 >>>QoS flow Item STRUCTURE QoS Flow To Be
Setup Item IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.1

# 14 >>>>QoS Flow ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow
Identifier Identifier IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.10 Candidate target primary cell STRUCTURE Target Cell ID IE in global ID for NG handover TS 38.413 [11] Clause 9.3.1.73

# 16 >CHOICE Target Cell STRUCTURE Target Cell IE in TS 38.423 [15]
Clause 9.2.3.25

# 17 >>NR Cell STRUCTURE NR IE in TS
38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.25 >>>NR CGI ELEMENT FALSE NR CGI IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.2.7

# 19 >>E-UTRA Cell STRUCTURE E-UTRA IE in TS
38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.25

# 20 >>>E-UTRA CGI ELEMENT FALSE E-UTRA CGI IE in TS 38.423 [15]
Clause 9.2.2.8 List of DRBs for handover LIST DRB To Be Setup List IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.1 >DRB item for handover STRUCTURE DRB To Be Setup Item IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.1 >>DRB ID ELEMENT TRUE DRB ID IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.8 >>List of QoS flows in LIST Flows Mapped To the DRB DRB Item IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.1

# 25 >>>QoS flow Item STRUCTURE

# 26 >>>>QoS flow ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow
Identifier Identifier IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.63 List of Secondary cells to be LIST SCell To Be Setup setup List IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.1 >Secondary cell Item to be STRUCTURE SCell To Be Setup setup Item IEs IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.1 >>Secondary cell ID ELEMENT FALSE SCell ID IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.1

#### 8.4.4.3 DAPS Handover Control
Upon receiving the RIC Control Request message, in the case of Xn/X2 DAPS handovers, the E2 node shall invoke procedures, such as Handover Preparation related to UE Mobility Management, Bearer Context Modification, UE Context Modification, RRC Message Transfer, etc. In the case of intra-gNB or F1 DAPS handover, the E2 node shall invoke procedures, such as UE Context Modification, RRC Message Transfer, etc. The E2 node includes the IEs corresponding to one or more of parameters described below in the related interface messages. If the Target Primary Cell ID IE is missing in the RIC Control Request message, the E2 node will send a RIC Control Failure message. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key Param RAN Parameter Semantics Parameter Parameter Definition Description ID Value Type

# 3 >>NR Cell STRUCTURE NR IE in TS
38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.25 >>>NR CGI ELEMENT FALSE NR CGI IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.2.7

# 5 >>E-UTRA Cell STRUCTURE E-UTRA IE in TS
38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.25

# 6 >>>E-UTRA CGI ELEMENT FALSE E-UTRA CGI IE in TS 38.423 [15]
Clause 9.2.2.8 List of DRBs subject to DAPS LIST Source DRB to handover QoS Flow Mapping List IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.17

# 8 >DRB item for handover STRUCTURE DRB to QoS
Flow Mapping Item IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.15 >>DRB ID ELEMENT TRUE DRB ID IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.33 >>List of QoS flows in the LIST QoS Flows List DRB IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.15

# 11 >>>QoS flow Item STRUCTURE QoS Flow Item
IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.15

# 12 >>>>QoS flow ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow
Identifier Identifier IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.10

# 13 >>>>QoS flow ELEMENT FALSE QoS Flow
mapping indication Identifier IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.79 List of DRBs subject to LIST Source DRB to handover without DAPS QoS Flow Mapping List IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.17

# 15 >DRB item for handover STRUCTURE DRB to QoS
Flow Mapping Item IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.15 >>DRB ID ELEMENT TRUE DRB ID IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.33 >>List of QoS flows in the LIST QoS Flows List DRB IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.15

# 18 >>>QoS flow Item STRUCTURE QoS Flow Item
IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.15

# 19 >>>>QoS flow ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow
Identifier Identifier IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.10

# 20 >>>>QoS flow ELEMENT FALSE QoS Flow
mapping indication Identifier IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.79

# 21 List of PDU Sessions subject LIST PDU Session
for handover Resources To Setup List IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.1

# 22 >PDU Session Item STRUCTURE PDU Session
Resources To Be Setup Item IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.1

# 23 >>PDU Session ID ELEMENT TRUE PDU Session ID
IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.1 >>List of DRBs subject to LIST Source DRB to DAPS handover QoS Flow Mapping List IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.17

# 25 >>>DRB item for STRUCTURE DRB to QoS
handover Flow Mapping Item IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.15 >>>>DRB ID ELEMENT TRUE DRB ID IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.33

# 27 >>>>List of QoS LIST QoS Flows List
flows in the DRB IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.15

# 28 >>>>>QoS flow STRUCTURE QoS Flow Item
Item IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.15

# 29 >>>>>>QoS ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow
flow Identifier Identifier IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.10

# 30 >>>>>>QoS ELEMENT FALSE QoS Flow
flow mapping Identifier IE in TS indication 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.79 >>List of DRBs subject to LIST Source DRB to handover without DAPS QoS Flow Mapping List IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.17

# 32 >>>DRB item for STRUCTURE DRB to QoS
handover Flow Mapping Item IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.15 >>>>DRB ID ELEMENT TRUE DRB ID IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.33

# 34 >>>>List of QoS LIST QoS Flows List
flows in the DRB IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.15

# 35 >>>>>QoS flow STRUCTURE QoS Flow Item
Item IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.15

# 36 >>>>>>QoS ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow
flow Identifier Identifier IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.10

# 37 >>>>>>QoS ELEMENT FALSE QoS Flow
flow mapping Identifier IE in TS Indication 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.79

#### 8.4.4.4 Cell Switch Restriction List
Upon receiving the RIC Control Request message, the E2 node shall identify the target UE based on the UE ID IE included in the RIC Control Header IE, and determine the cell switch restriction list (CSRL) type (Allowed CSRL or Forbidden CSRL) based on the Handover Restriction Type RAN parameter conveyed in the RIC Control Message IE. The Handover Restriction Type defines the scope (Allowed or Forbidden) of the CSRL operation for the UE, followed by either the Handover Restriction to Delete RAN parameter or the Handover Restriction to Add/Mod List RAN parameter or both, associated with the preceding Handover Restriction Type RAN parameter value included. If the Handover Restriction to Delete RAN parameter is included, the E2 Node shall remove the CSRL corresponding to the indicated Handover Restriction Type (if it exists) for the UE. If the Handover Restriction to Add/Mod List RAN parameter is included, the E2 node shall, by using the entries conveyed by the Handover Restriction to Add/Mod List RAN parameter,
- either overwrite the CSRL corresponding to the indicated Handover Restriction Type (if it exists) for the UE;
- or create a new CSRL corresponding to the indicated Handover Restriction Type (if it does not exist) for the UE.
In the case where both Handover Restriction to Delete and Handover Restriction to Add/Mod List RAN parameters are included for the same Handover Restriction Type, the E2 Node shall process the Handover Restriction to Delete RAN parameter first before processing the Handover Restriction to Add/Mod List RAN parameter. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key RAN Parameter Semantics Parameter Parameter Flag Definition Description ID Value Type

# 3 Handover Restriction LIST
to Add/Mod List

# 4 >Handover STRUCTURE
Restriction to Add/Mod Item

# 5 >>NR CGI ELEMENT FALSE 9.3.41 Globally identify an NR cell
>>NR PCI ELEMENT FALSE 9.3.42 Identify an NR cell PCI

### 8.4.5 Radio Access Control

#### 8.4.5.1 UE admission control
Upon receiving the RIC Control Request message, the E2 node shall invoke procedures related to UE admission control, such as PDU Session Management, Bearer Context Management, UE Context Management, RRC Message Transfer, etc. and include the IEs corresponding to one or more of parameters described below in the related interface messages. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key Flag RAN Parameter Semantics Description Parameter Parameter Definition ID Value Type Primary Cell ID STRUCTU Target Cell Global ID IE in RE TS 38.423 [15] clause 9.2.3.25 >CHOICE Primary Cell STRUCTU Target Cell IE in TS RE 38.423 [15] clause 9.2.3.25 >>NR Cell STRUCTU NR IE in TS 38.423 [15] RE Clause 9.2.3.25 >>>NR CGI ELEMENT FALSE NR CGI IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.2.7

# 5 >>E-UTRA Cell STRUCTU E-UTRA IE in TS 38.423
RE [15] Clause 9.2.3.25

# 6 >>>E-UTRA CGI ELEMENT FALSE E-UTRA CGI IE in TS 38.423 [15]
Clause 9.2.2.8 List of PDU sessions for LIST PDU Session Resources admission To Be Setup List IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.1

# 8 >PDU session Item for STRUCTU PDU Session Resources
admission RE To Be Setup Item IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.1

# 9 >>PDU Session ID ELEMENT TRUE PDU Session ID
IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.18 >>List of DRBs for LIST DRB to Be Setup List IE in admission TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.1 >>>DRB item for STRUCTU DRB to Be Setup Item IE admission RE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.1 >>>>DRB ID ELEMENT TRUE DRB ID IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.8

# 13 >>>>List of LIST QoS Flows Information To QoS flows in Be Setup IE in TS 37.483
the DRB [21] Clause 9.3.3.2

# 14 >>>>>QoS STRUCTU QoS Flow Item IE in TS
flow Item RE 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.25

# 15 >>>>>> ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow
QoS Identifier IE in TS flow 37.483 [21] Identifier Clause 9.3.1.24

# 16 >>>>>> ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow
QoS Mapping flow Indication IE in TS mapping 37.483 [21] indicatio Clause 9.3.1.60 n >>>List of cell LIST Cell Group To Add IE in groups to be added TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.3.11 >>>>Cell group STRUCTU Cell Group Item IE in TS item RE 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.11

# 19 >>>>>Cell ELEMENT TRUE Cell Group ID IE
Group ID in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.11

# 20 >>>SDAP STRUCTU SDAP Configuration IE in Configuration RE TS 37.483 [21] Clause
9.3.1.39

# 21 >>>Default DRB ELEMENT FALSE Default DRB IE in TS 37.483 [21]
Clause 9.3.1.39

# 22 >>>PDCP STRUCTU PDCP Configuration IE in Configuration RE TS 37.483 [21] Clause
9.3.1.38

# 23 >>>RLC mode ELEMENT FALSE RLC mode IE in TS 37.483 [21]
Clause 9.3.1.38

# 24 >>>PDCP ELEMENT FALSE PDCP Duplication
Duplication IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.38

# 25 >>>UL Data Split ELEMENT FALSE UL Data Split
Threshold Threshold IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.43

# 26 >>>PDCP Re- ELEMENT FALSE PDCP Re- establishment establishment IE
in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.38

# 27 >>>PDCP Data ELEMENT FALSE PDCP Data
Recovery Recovery IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.38

# 28 >>>Out-of-Order ELEMENT FALSE Out of Order
Delivery Delivery IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.38

# 29 >>>PDCP Status ELEMENT FALSE PDCP Status
Report Indication Report Indication IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.38

# 30 >>>Number of ELEMENT FALSE Additional PDCP
PDCP duplication duplication Information IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.38

# 31 >>>UL More than STRUCTU moreThanOneRLC IE in one RLC RE TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 32 >>>>Primary STRUCTU primaryPath IE in TS
Path RE 38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 33 >>>>>Cell ELEMENT TRUE cellGroup IE in TS
Group ID 38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 34 >>>>>Logic ELEMENT FALSE logicalChannel IE
al Channel in TS 38.331 [22] ID Sec 6

# 35 >>>UL More than STRUCTU moreThanTwoRLC-DRB- two RLC RE r16 IE in TS 38.331 [22]
Clause 6

# 36 >>>>Split ELEMENT FALSE splitSecondaryPat
Secondary h IE in TS 38.331 Path [22] Sec 6

# 37 >>>>Duplicatio ELEMENT FALSE duplicationState
n State IE in TS 38.331 [22] Sec 6

# 38 >>>DL More than STRUCTU moreThanOneRLC IE in one RLC RE TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 39 >>>>Primary STRUCTU primaryPath IE in TS
Path RE 38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 49 >>>>>Cell ELEMENT TRUE cellGroup IE in TS
Group ID 38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 50 >>>>>Logic ELEMENT FALSE logicalChannel IE
al Channel in TS 38.331 [22] ID Sec 6

# 51 >>>DL More than STRUCTU moreThanTwoRLC-DRB- two RLC RE r16 IE in TS 38.331 [22]
Clause 6

# 52 >>>>Split ELEMENT FALSE splitSecondaryPat
Secondary h IE in TS 38.331 Path [22] Sec 6

# 53 >>>>Duplicatio ELEMENT FALSE duplicationState
n State IE in TS 38.331 [22] Sec 6 List of Secondary cells to LIST Scell To Be Setup List IE be setup in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.1 >Secondary cell Item to STRUCTU Scell To Be Setup Item Ies be setup RE IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.1 >>Secondary cell ID ELEMENT FALSE Scell ID IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.1

#### 8.4.5.2 RACH backoff control
Upon receiving the RIC Control Request message, the E2 node shall invoke procedures related to RACH backoff control, such as RRC Message Transfer, etc. and include the IEs corresponding to one or more of parameters described below in the related interface messages. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key Flag RAN Parameter Semantics Parameter Parameter Definition Description ID Value Type

# 3 >Zero correlation Zone ELEMENT FALSE zeroCorrelationZoneC
Config onfig IE in TS 38.331 [22] Sec 6

# 4 >Preamble Received ELEMENT FALSE preambleReceivedTar
Target Power getPower IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 5 >Preamble Transmission ELEMENT FALSE preambleTransMax IE
Max in TS 38.331 [22] Sec

# 6 >Power Ramping Step ELEMENT FALSE powerRampingStep
High Priority IE in TS 38.331 [22] Sec 6

# 7 >Random Access ELEMENT FALSE ra-ResponseWindow
Response Window IE in TS 38.331 [22] Sec 6

# 8 Dedicated RACH Config STRUCTURE RACH- Parameters ConfigDedicated IE in
TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 9 >Random Access STRUCTURE RA-Prioritization IE in Prioritization TS 38.331 [22] Sec 6

# 10 >>Scaling Factor for ELEMENT FALSE scalingFactorBI IE in Backoff Indicator TS 38.331 [22] Sec 6

# 11 >>Power Ramping ELEMENT FALSE powerRampingStepHi
Step High Priority ghPriority IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6

#### 8.4.5.3 Access barring control
Upon receiving the RIC Control Request message, the E2 node shall invoke procedures related to Access barring control, such as UE Context Management, RRC Message Transfer, etc. and include the IEs corresponding to one or more of parameters described below in the related interface messages. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key RAN Semantics Description Parameter Parameter Param Parameter ID Value Type Definition Unified Access Control STRUCTURE uac-BarringInfo IE in TS 38.331 Barring Info [22] Sec 6

# 3 >>Barring Per Cat STRUCTURE UAC-BarringPerCat IE in TS
38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 4 >>>Access ELEMENT FALSE accessCategory
Category IE in TS 38.331 [22] Sec 6

# 5 >>>Barring Info ELEMENT FALSE UAC- Set Index BarringInfoSetIn
dex IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 6 >UAC Barring for PLMN LIST uac-BarringPerPLMN-List IE in List TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 7 >>UAC- STRUCTURE UAC-BarringPerPLMN IE in TS
BarringPerPLMN 38.331 [22] Sec 6

# 8 >>>PLMN Identity ELEMENT TRUE
9.3.59

# 9 >>>CHOICE UAC STRUCTURE Uac-ACBarringListType IE in TS
AC Barring List 38.331 [22] Sec 6 Type

# 10 >>>>UAC LIST uac-ImplicitACBarringList IE in Implicit AC TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6
Barring List

# 11 >>>>>UAC STRUCTURE
Implicit AC Barring Item

# 12 >>>>>> ELEMENT FALSE UAC- UAC BarringInfoSetIn
Barring dex IE in TS Info Set 38.331 [22] Sec Index 6

# 13 >>>>UAC LIST uac-ExplicitACBarringList IE in Explicit AC TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6
Barring List

# 14 >>>>>Barri STRUCTURE UAC-BarringPerCat IE in TS
ng Per Cat 38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 15 >>>>>> ELEMENT FALSE accessCategory
Access IE in TS 38.331 Categor [22] Sec 6 y

# 16 >>>>>> ELEMENT FALSE UAC- Barring BarringInfoSetIn
Info Set dex IE in TS Index 38.331 [22] Clause 6 >UAC Barring Info Set List LIST UAC-BarringInfoSetList IE in TS 38.331 [22] Sec 6

# 18 >>UAC Barring Info STRUCTURE UAC-BarringInfoSet IE in TS
Set Item 38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 19 >>>UAC Barring ELEMENT FALSE uac- Factor BarringFactor IE
in TS 38.331 [22] Sec 6

# 20 >>>UAC Barring ELEMENT FALSE uac- Time BarringTime IE
in TS 38.331 [22] Sec 6

# 21 >>>UAC Barring ELEMENT FALSE uac- For Access Identity BarringForAcce
ssIdentity in TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 22 >CHOICE Access STRUCTURE uac-AccessCategory1- Category 1 – Selection SelectionAssistanceInfo IE in TS
Assistance Info 38.331 [22] Sec 6

# 23 >>PLMN Common ELEMENT FALSE UAC- AccessCategory
1- SelectAssistanc eInfo IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 24 >>Individual PLMN LIST individualPLMNList IE in TS
List 38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 25 >>>PLMN Item STRUCTURE

# 26 >>>>UAC ELEMENT FALSE UAC- Access AccessCategory
Category 1 1- Selection SelectAssistanc Assistance Info eInfo IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6

# 27 Cell Access STRUCTURE
Control Barring Info

# 28 > List of Control LIST
plmn-Identity

# 29 >> plmn- ELEMENT 9.3.59
Identity

# 30 >>List of LIST
Control cells

# 31 STRUCTURE
>>>CHOICE Cell Type STRUCTURE 8.1.1.1 NR IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause >>>>NR Cell 9.2.3.25 >>>>>NR ELEMENT NR CGI IE in Cell Corresponding to same CGI TS 38.423 [15] PLMN Clause 9.2.2.7 >>>>E- STRUCTURE 8.1.1.2 E-UTRA IE in TS 38.423 [15] UTRA Cell Clause 9.2.3.25

# 35 ELEMENT E-UTRA CGI IE
>>>>>EUTAN in TS 38.423 CGI [15] Clause 9.2.2.8

# 36 >>> ELEMENT Indicated in the MIB message,
cellBarred applicable to all PLMNs when multiple PLMNs are in SIB1. When set to ‘barred’, the cell is barred for all UEs including emergency calls. Please refer to TS 38.331 [22].

# 37 >>> ELEMENT Indicated in MIB message. It
intraFreqResel controls cell ection selection/reselection to intra- frequency cells when the highest-ranked cell is barred or treated as barred by the UE. In the case of multiple PLMNs indicated in SIB1, this field is common for all PLMNs. Please refer to TS 38.331 [22].

# 38 >> ELEMENT Indicated in SIB1 message, per- cellReservedFo PLMN configuration. When set
rOperatorUse to ‘reserved’, the cell is treated as a candidate by the UE with access identity (i.e.) 11 and 15 operating in their HPLMN/EHPLMN. UEs assigned to an Access Identity 0, 1, 2 and 12 to 14 shall behave as if the cell status is "barred" for the registered PLMN or the selected PLMN. Please refer to TS 38.331 [22].

# 39 >> Indicated in SIB1 message,
cellReservedFo applicable to all PLMNs rOtherUse indicated in SIB1. Please refer to TS 38.331 [22].

#### 8.4.5.4 RRC Connection Release Control
Upon receiving the RIC Control Request message, the E2 node shall invoke procedures related to RRC Connection Release control, such as RRC Message Transfer, etc. and include the IEs corresponding to one or more of parameters described below in the related interface messages. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key RAN Parameter Semantics Description Parameter Parameter Flag Definition ID Value Type

# 3 >>EARFCN ELEMENT FALSE ARFCN- ValueEUTRA IE in
TS 36.331 [23]

# 4 >NR STRUCTURE nr-r15 IE in TS
36.331 [23]

# 5 >>Carrier Info NR STRUCTURE CarrierInfoNR-r15 IE in TS
36.331 [23]

# 6 >>>Carrier ELEMENT FALSE ARFCN-ValueNR- Frequency r15 IE in TS
36.331 [23]

# 7 >>>Subcarrier ELEMENT FALSE subcarrierSpacing
Spacing SSB SSB-r15 IE in TS 36.331 [23]

# 8 Idle Mode Mobility Control STRUCTURE IdleModeMobilityControlInf
Info o IE in TS 36.331 [23]

# 9 >Frequency Priority List E- LIST FreqPriorityListEUTRA IE
UTRA in TS 36.331 [23]

# 10 >>Frequency Priority STRUCTURE FreqPriorityEUTRA IE in Item E-UTRA TS 36.331 [23]

# 11 >>>Carrier ELEMENT FALSE carrierFreq IE in Frequency TS 38.331 [22]

# 12 >>>Cell ELEMENT FALSE cellReselectionPri
Reselection Priority ority IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 13 >>>Cell ELEMENT FALSE cellReselectionSu
Reselection Sub bPriority IE in TS Priority 38.331 [22]

# 14 >Frequency Priority List LIST FreqPriorityListNR IE in NR TS 38.331 [22]

# 15 >>Frequency Priority STRUCTURE FreqPriorityNR IE in TS
Item NR 38.331 [22]

# 16 >>>Carrier ELEMENT FALSE carrierFreq IE in Frequency TS 38.331 [22]

# 17 >>>Cell ELEMENT FALSE cellReselectionPri
Reselection Priority ority IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 18 >>>Cell ELEMENT FALSE cellReselectionSu
Reselection Sub bPriority IE in TS Priority 38.331 [22] >T-320 timer expiry ELEMENT FALSE t320 IE in TS 38.331 [22]

#### 8.4.5.5 RRC Connection Reject Control
Upon receiving the RIC Control Request message, the E2 node shall invoke procedures related to RRC Connection Reject, such as RRC Message Transfer, etc. and include the IEs corresponding to one or more of parameters described below in the related interface messages. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key RAN Parameter Semantics Description Parameter Parameter Flag Definition ID Value Type

# 3 >Deprioritization Type ELEMENT FALSE deprioritisationTyp
e-r11 IE in TS 36.331 [23]

# 4 >Deprioritization Timer ELEMENT FALSE deprioritisationTim
er-r11 IE in TS 36.331 [23]

# 5 RRC Suspend Indication ELEMENT FALSE rrc- SuspendIndication
-r13 IE in TS 36.331 [23]

### 8.4.6 Dual Connectivity Control

#### 8.4.6.1 DC Secondary Node Addition Control
Upon receiving the RIC Control Request message, the E2 node shall invoke procedures related to DC Secondary Node Addition Control, such as Dual Connectivity Secondary Node Addition, UE Context Management, RRC Message Transfer, etc. and include the IEs corresponding to one or more of parameters described below in the related interface messages. If the Secondary Node ID is missing in the RIC Control Request message, the E2 node will send a RIC Control Failure. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Parameter Key Flag RAN Parameter Semantics Parameter ID Value Type Definition Description

# 3 >>Secondary Node STRUCTURE Global ng-eNB ID
gNB IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.2.1

# 4 >>>PLMN Identity ELEMENT FALSE PLMN Identity IE
in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.2.4 >>>gNB ID ELEMENT FALSE gNB ID IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.2.1

# 6 >>Secondary Node ng- STRUCTURE Global ng-eNB ID
eNB IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.2.2

# 7 >>>PLMN Identity ELEMENT FALSE PLMN Identity IE
in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.2.4

# 8 >>>ng-eNB ID ELEMENT FALSE Long Macro ng- eNB ID IE in TS
38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.2.2

# 9 >>Secondary Node en- STRUCTURE en-gNB IE in TS
gNB 36.423 [17] Sec

# 10 >>>PLMN Identity ELEMENT FALSE PLMN Identity IE
in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.4

# 11 >>>en-gNB ID ELEMENT FALSE Global en-gNB ID
IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.4 List of PDU Sessions to be LIST PDU Session Added Resources To Be Added List IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.1.2.1

# 13 >PDU Session to be Added STRUCTURE PDU Session
Item Resources To Be Added Item IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.1.2.1

# 14 >>PDU Session ID ELEMENT TRUE PDU Session ID
IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.18

# 15 >>PDU Session STRUCTURE PDU Session
Resource Setup Info – Resource Setup SN-Terminated Info – SN Terminated IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.5 >>>QoS Flow To Be LIST QoS Flows To Be Setup List Setup List IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.5

# 17 >>>>QoS Flow STRUCTURE QoS Flows To Be
Item Setup Item IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.5

# 18 >>>>>QoS ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow
Flow Identifier IE in TS Identifier 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.10

# 19 >>>>>QoS ELEMENT FALSE QoS Flow
Flow Mapping Mapping Indication IE in Indication TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.79

# 20 >>>Default DRB ELEMENT FALSE Default DRB
allowed Allowed IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.93

# 21 >>PDU Session STRUCTURE PDU Session
Resource Setup Info – Resource Setup MN-Terminated Info – SN Terminated IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.7

# 22 >>>DRBs To Be STRUCTURE DRBs To Be
Setup List Setup List IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.7

# 23 >>>>DRB To Be STRUCTURE DRBs To Be
Setup Item Setup Item IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.7

# 24 >>>>>DRB ELEMENT TRUE DRB ID IE in TS
ID 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.16

# 25 >>>>>QoS LIST QoS Flows To Be
Flow To Be Setup List IE in TS Setup List 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.5

# 26 >>>>>>Q STRUCTURE QoS Flow Item IE
oS Flow in TS 38.423 [15] Item Clause 9.2.3.10

# 27 >>>> ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow
>>>Q Identifier IE in TS oS 38.423 [15] Flow Clause 9.2.3.10 Identif ier

# 28 >>>> ELEMENT FALSE QoS Flow
>>>Q Mapping oS Indication IE in Flow TS 38.423 [15] Mappi Clause 9.2.3.79 ng Indica tion

# 29 List of SN-terminated DRB LIST Additional DRB
IDs IDs IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.29

# 30 >SN-Terminated DRB Item STRUCTURE
>>DRB Identity ELEMENT TRUE DRB ID IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.8 List of E-RABs to be Added LIST E-RABs To Be Added List IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.1.4.1 >E-RAB to be Added Item STRUCTURE E-RABs To Be Added Item IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.1.4.1

# 34 >>E-RAB ID ELEMENT TRUE E-RAB ID IE in TS 36.423 [17]
Clause 9.2.23

# 35 >>EN-DC Resource STRUCTURE EN-DC Resource
Configuration Configuration IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.108

# 36 >>>PDCP at SgNB ELEMENT FALSE PDCP at SgNB
IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.108

# 37 >>>MCG Resources ELEMENT FALSE MCG resources
IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.108

# 38 >>>SCG Resources ELEMENT FALSE SCG resources
IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.108

#### 8.4.6.2 DC Secondary Node Modification Control
Upon receiving the RIC Control Request message, the E2 node shall invoke procedures related to DC Secondary Node Modification Control, such as Dual Connectivity Secondary Node Modification, UE Context Management, RRC Message Transfer, etc. and include the IEs corresponding to one or more of parameters described below in the related interface messages. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key RAN Parameter Semantics Parameter Parameter Flag Definition Description ID Value Type

# 4 >>PLMN Identity ELEMENT FALSE PLMN Identity IE in TS 38.423 [15]
Clause 9.2.2.4 >>gNB ID ELEMENT FALSE gNB ID IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.2.1

# 6 >Secondary Node ng-eNB STRUCTURE Global ng-eNB ID
IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.2.2

# 7 >>PLMN Identity ELEMENT FALSE PLMN Identity IE in TS 38.423 [15]
Clause 9.2.2.4

# 8 >>ng-eNB ID ELEMENT FALSE Long Macro ng-eNB
ID IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.2.2

# 9 >Secondary Node en-gNB STRUCTURE en-gNB IE in TS
36.423 [17] Sec

# 10 >>PLMN Identity ELEMENT FALSE PLMN Identity IE in TS 36.423 [17]
Clause 9.2.4

# 11 >>en-gNB ID ELEMENT FALSE Global en-gNB ID IE
in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.4

# 12 List of PDU Session LIST PDU Session
Resources to be modified Resources To Be Modified List IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.1.2.5

# 13 >PDU Session Resource to be STRUCTURE PDU Session
Modified Item Resources To Be Modified Item IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.1.2.5 >>PDU Session ID ELEMENT TRUE PDU Session ID IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.18

# 15 >>PDU Session Resource STRUCTURE PDU Session
Modification Info – SN- Resource Terminated Modification Info – SN Terminated IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.9 >>>QoS Flows To Be LIST QoS Flows To Be Setup List Setup List IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.9

# 17 >>>>QoS Flow Item STRUCTURE QoS Flows To Be
Setup Item IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.9 >>>>>QoS Flow ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow Identifier

# 18 Identifier IE in TS 38.423 [15]
Clause 9.2.3.10

# 19 >>>>>QoS Flow ELEMENT FALSE QoS Flow Mapping
Mapping Indication IE in TS Indication 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.79

# 20 >>>>>Redunda ELEMENT FALSE
nt QoS Flow Indicator >>>QoS Flows To Be LIST QoS Flows To Be Modified List Modified List IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.9

# 22 >>>>QoS Flow Item STRUCTURE QoS Flows To Be
Modified Item IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.9

# 23 >>>>QoS Flow ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow Identifier
Identifier IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.10

# 24 >>>>QoS Flow ELEMENT FALSE QoS Flow Mapping
Mapping Indication IE in TS Indication 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.79

# 25 >>>>Redundant ELEMENT FALSE Redundant QoS
QoS Flow Flow Indicator IE in Indicator TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.118 >>>QoS Flows To Be LIST QoS Flows To Be Released List Released List IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.9

# 27 >>>>QoS Flow Item STRUCTURE QoS Flow With Cause Item IE in
TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.4

# 28 >>>>QoS Flow ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow Identifier
Identifier IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.10

# 29 >>>Default DRB ELEMENT FALSE Default DRB
allowed Allowed IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.93

# 30 >>PDU Session Resource STRUCTURE PDU Session
Modification Info – MN- Resource Terminated Modification Info – MN Terminated IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.11 >>>DRBs to be setup LIST DRBs To Be Setup list List IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.11

# 32 >>>>DRBs to be STRUCTURE DRBs To Be Setup
setup item Item IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.11 >>>>>DRB ID ELEMENT TRUE DRB ID IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.16

# 34 >>>>>DRB QoS STRUCTURE

# 35 >>>>>PDCP ELEMENT TRUE Duplication
Duplication Activation IE in TS Activation 37.483 [21] Clause 9.2.3.71

# 36 >>>>>QoS LIST QoS Flows
Flows Mapped Mapped to DRB to DRB List List IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.2.1.11

# 37 >>>>>>QoS STRUCTURE QoS Flows
Flows Mapped To DRB Mapped to Item IE in TS DRB Item 37.483 [21] Clause 9.2.1.11

# 38 >>>>>>> ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow Identifier
QoS IE in TS 38.423 [15] Flow Clause 9.2.3.10 Identifier

# 39 >>>>>>> ELEMENT FALSE QoS Flow Mapping
QoS Indication IE in TS Flow 38.423 [15] Clause Mapping 9.2.3.79 Indication

# 40 >>>DRBs to be LIST DRBs To Be
modified list Modified List IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.2.1.11

# 41 >>>>DRB to be STRUCTURE DRBs To Be
modified item Modified Item IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.2.1.11 >>>>>DRB ID ELEMENT TRUE DRB ID IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.16

# 43 >>>>>DRB QoS STRUCTURE

# 44 >>>>>PDCP ELEMENT FALSE PDCP Duplication
Duplication Configuration IE in Configuration TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.2.3.86

# 45 >>>>>PDCP ELEMENT FALSE Duplication
Duplication Activation IE in TS Activation 37.483 [21] Clause 9.2.3.71

# 46 >>>>>QoS LIST Flow Mapping
Flows Mapped Information IE in to DRB List TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.26

# 47 >>>>>>QoS STRUCTURE QoS Flow Item IE
Flows in TS 37.483 [21] Mapped to Clause 9.3.1.25 DRB Item

# 48 >>>>>>> ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow Identifier
QoS IE in TS 38.423 [15] Flow Clause 9.2.3.10 Identifier

# 49 >>>>>>> ELEMENT FALSE QoS Flow Mapping
QoS Indication IE in TS Flow 38.423 [15] Clause Mapping 9.2.3.79 Indication

# 50 >>>DRBs to be LIST DRBs To Be
released list Released List IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.28

# 51 >>>>DRB to be STRUCTURE DRBs To Be Setup
released item Item IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.11 >>>>>DRB ID ELEMENT TRUE DRB ID IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.16

# 53 List of PDU Session LIST PDU Session
Resources to be deleted Resources To Be Released List IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.1.2.5

# 54 >PDU Session Resource to be STRUCTURE PDU Session
deleted Item Resource To Be Released Item IE >>PDU Session ID ELEMENT TRUE PDU Session ID IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.18 List of E-RABs to be Modified LIST E-RABs To Be Modified List IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.1.4.5 >E-RAB to be Modified Item STRUCTURE E-RAB To Be Modified Item IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.1.4.5 >>E-RAB ID ELEMENT TRUE E-RAB ID IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.23

# 59 >>EN-DC Resource STRUCTURE EN-DC Resource
Configuration Configuration IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.108 >>>PDCP at SgNB ELEMENT FALSE PDCP at SgNB IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.108

# 61 >>>MCG Resources ELEMENT FALSE MCG resources IE in TS 36.423 [17]
Clause 9.2.108

# 62 >>>SCG Resources ELEMENT FALSE SCG resources IE in TS 36.423 [17]
Clause 9.2.108

# 63 List of E-RABs to be Released LIST E-RABs To Be
Released List IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.1.4.5

# 64 >E-RAB to be Released Item STRUCTURE E-RABs To Be
Released Item IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.1.4.5

# 65 >>E-RAB ID ELEMENT TRUE E-RAB ID IE in TS
36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.23

#### 8.4.6.3 PSCell Change control for Secondary Cell Group
Upon receiving the RIC Control Request message, in the case of intra-SN PSCell change, the E2 node shall invoke procedures related to PSCell Change Control, such as Dual Connectivity Secondary Node Modification, UE Context Modification, RRC Message Transfer, etc. In the case of inter-SN PSCell change, the E2 node shall invoke procedures such as Dual Connectivity Secondary Node Release (MN/SN-initiated) or SN Change (only SN-initiated), Bearer Context Modification, UE Context Modification, RRC Message Transfer, etc. The E2 node then includes the IEs corresponding to one or more of parameters described below in the related interface messages. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key Flag RAN Parameter Semantics Parameter Parameter Definition Description ID Value Type

# 3 >>NR Cell STRUCTURE NR IE in TS 38.423
[15] Clause 9.2.3.25 >>>NR CGI ELEMENT FALSE NR CGI IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.2.7

# 5 >>E-UTRA Cell STRUCTURE E-UTRA IE in TS
38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.25

# 6 >>>E-UTRA ELEMENT FALSE E-UTRA CGI IE in CGI TS 38.423 [15]
Clause 9.2.2.8

# 7 Secondary Node ID STRUCTURE Global NG-RAN Node
ID IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.2.3

# 8 >CHOICE Secondary STRUCTURE
Node Type

# 9 >>Secondary Node STRUCTURE Global gNB ID IE in gNB TS 38.423 [15]
Clause 9.2.2.1

# 10 >>>PLMN ELEMENT FALSE PLMN Identity IE
Identity in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.2.4 >>>gNB ID ELEMENT FALSE gNB ID IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.2.1

# 12 >>Secondary Node STRUCTURE Global ng-eNB ID IE
ng-eNB in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.2.2

# 13 >>>PLMN ELEMENT FALSE PLMN Identity IE
Identity in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.2.4

# 14 >>>ng-eNB ID ELEMENT FALSE Long Macro ng- eNB ID IE in TS
38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.2.2

# 15 >>Secondary Node STRUCTURE en-gNB IE in TS
en-gNB 36.423 [17] Sec

# 16 >>>PLMN ELEMENT FALSE PLMN Identity IE
Identity in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.4

# 17 >>>en-gNB ID ELEMENT FALSE Global en-gNB ID
IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.4

# 18 PDU Session SN LIST PDU Session SN
Change Required List Change Required List IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.1.2.11

# 19 >PDU Session SN STRUCTURE PDU Session SN
Change Required Item Change Required Item IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.1.2.11

# 20 >>PDU Session ID ELEMENT TRUE PDU Session ID
IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.18 >>List of QoS flows LIST QoS Flows To Be in the PDU session Setup List IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.1

# 22 >>>QoS flow STRUCTURE QoS Flow To Be
Item Setup Item IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.1

# 23 >>>>QoS ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow
Flow Identifier IE in TS Identifier 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.10 List of DRBs for LIST DRB to Be Setup List PSCell handover IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.1 >DRB item for PSCell STRUCTURE DRB to Be Setup handover Item IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.1 >>DRB ID ELEMENT TRUE DRB ID IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.8

# 27 >>List of QoS flows LIST QoS Flows
in the DRB Information To Be Setup IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.3.2

# 28 >>>QoS flow STRUCTURE QoS Flow Item IE in Item TS 37.483 [21]
Clause 9.3.1.25

# 29 >>>>QoS ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow
flow Identifier IE in TS Identifier 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.24

#### 8.4.6.4 DC Secondary Node Change Control
Upon receiving the RIC Control Request message, the E2 node shall invoke procedures such as Dual Connectivity Secondary Node Release (MN/SN-initiated) or SN Change (only SN-initiated), Bearer Context Modification, UE Context Modification, RRC Message Transfer, etc. and includes the IEs corresponding to one or more of parameters described below in the related interface messages. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key Flag RAN Parameter Semantics Parameter Parameter Definition Description ID Value Type

# 3 >>NR Cell STRUCTURE NR IE in TS 38.423
[15] Clause 9.2.3.25 >>>NR CGI ELEMENT FALSE NR CGI IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.2.7

# 5 >>E-UTRA Cell STRUCTURE E-UTRA IE in TS
38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.25

# 6 >>>E-UTRA ELEMENT FALSE E-UTRA CGI IE in CGI TS 38.423 [15]
Clause 9.2.2.8

# 7 Target Secondary STRUCTURE Target S-NG-RAN
Node ID node ID IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.1.2.11

# 8 >CHOICE Target STRUCTURE
Secondary Node Type

# 9 >>Secondary Node STRUCTURE Global gNB ID IE in gNB TS 38.423 [15]
Clause 9.2.2.1

# 10 >>>PLMN ELEMENT FALSE PLMN Identity IE
Identity in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.2.4 >>>gNB ID ELEMENT FALSE gNB ID IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.2.1

# 12 >>Secondary Node STRUCTURE Global ng-eNB ID IE
ng-eNB in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.2.2

# 13 >>>PLMN ELEMENT FALSE PLMN Identity IE
Identity in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.2.4

# 14 >>>ng-eNB ID ELEMENT FALSE Long Macro ng- eNB ID IE in TS
38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.2.2

# 15 >>Secondary Node STRUCTURE en-gNB IE in TS
en-gNB 36.423 [17] Sec

# 16 >>>PLMN ELEMENT FALSE PLMN Identity IE
Identity in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.4

# 17 >>>en-gNB ID ELEMENT FALSE Global en-gNB ID
IE in TS 36.423 [17] Clause 9.2.4

# 18 PDU Session SN LIST PDU Session SN
Change Required List Change Required List IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.1.2.11

# 19 >PDU Session SN STRUCTURE PDU Session SN
Change Required Item Change Required Item IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.1.2.11

# 20 >>PDU Session ID ELEMENT TRUE PDU Session ID
IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.18 >>List of QoS flows LIST QoS Flows To Be in the PDU session Setup List IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.1

# 22 >>>QoS flow STRUCTURE QoS Flow To Be
Item Setup Item IE in TS 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.1.1

# 23 >>>>QoS ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow
Flow Identifier IE in TS Identifier 38.423 [15] Clause 9.2.3.10 List of DRBs for LIST DRB to Be Setup List PSCell handover IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.1 >DRB item for PSCell STRUCTURE DRB to Be Setup Item handover IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.1 >>DRB ID ELEMENT TRUE DRB ID IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.8

# 27 >>List of QoS flows LIST QoS Flows
in the DRB Information To Be Setup IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.3.2

# 28 >>>QoS flow STRUCTURE QoS Flow Item IE in Item TS 37.483 [21]
Clause 9.3.1.25

# 29 >>>>QoS ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow
flow Identifier IE in TS Identifier 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.24

### 8.4.7 Carrier Aggregation Control

#### 8.4.7.1 Secondary cell Addition control
Upon receiving the RIC Control Request message, the E2 node shall invoke procedures related to Secondary cell Addition Control, such as UE Context Management, RRC Message Transfer, etc. and include the IEs corresponding to one or more of parameters described below in the related interface messages. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key RAN Parameter Semantics Description Parameter Parameter Flag Definition ID Value Type List of secondary cells to LIST Scell To Be Setup List IE be setup in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.1 >Secondary cell to be STRUCTURE Scell To Be Setup Item setup Item Ies IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.1 >>Scell Cell Global ID ELEMENT FALSE Scell ID IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.1

# 4 >>Scell UL Configured ELEMENT FALSE Cell UL
Configured IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.33 List of DRBs to be served LIST DRB to Be Setup List IE using SCells in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.1 >DRB item STRUCTURE DRB to Be Setup Item IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.1 >>DRB ID ELEMENT TRUE DRB ID IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.8 >>List of QoS flows in LIST QoS Flows Information the DRB To Be Setup IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.3.2 >>>QoS flow Item STRUCTURE QoS Flow Item IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.25

# 10 >>>>QoS flow ELEMENT TRUE QoS Flow
Identifier Identifier IE in TS 37.483 [21] Clause 9.3.1.24

#### 8.4.7.2 Secondary cell Modification control
Upon receiving the RIC Control Request message, the E2 node shall invoke procedures related to Secondary cell Modification Control, such as UE Context Management, RRC Message Transfer, etc. and include the IEs corresponding to one or more of parameters described below in the related interface messages. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key RAN Parameter Semantics Description Parameter Parameter Flag Definition ID Value Type List of secondary LIST Scell To Be Setup List IE in cells to be setup TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.1 >Secondary cell to be STRUCTURE Scell To Be Setup Item Ies setup Item IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.1 >>Scell Global ID ELEMENT FALSE Scell ID IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.1 >>Scell UL ELEMENT FALSE Cell UL Configured IE in Configured TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.3.1.33 List of Scells to be LIST SCell To Be Removed List removed IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.7 >Scell to be removed STRUCTURE SCell to Be Removed Item Item IEs IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.7 >>Scell Global ID ELEMENT FALSE Scell ID IE in TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.1

### 8.4.8 Idle Mode Mobility Control

#### 8.4.8.1 Cell reselection priority control
Upon receiving the RIC Control Request message, the E2 node shall invoke procedures related to cell reselection priority control, such as RRC Message Transfer, etc. and include the IEs corresponding to one or more of parameters described below in the related interface messages. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key RAN Semantics Parameter Parameter Flag Parameter Description ID Value Type Definition

# 3 >>Frequency Priority Item E- STRUCTURE FreqPriorityEUTRA
UTRA IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 4 >>>Carrier Frequency ELEMENT FALSE carrierFreq IE
in TS 38.331 [22]

# 5 >>>Cell Reselection Priority ELEMENT FALSE cellReselection
Priority IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 6 >>>Cell Reselection Sub ELEMENT FALSE cellReselection
Priority SubPriority IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 7 >Frequency Priority List NR LIST FreqPriorityListNR
IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 8 >>Frequency Priority Item NR STRUCTURE FreqPriorityNR IE
in TS 38.331 [22]

# 9 >>>Carrier Frequency ELEMENT FALSE carrierFreq IE
in TS 38.331 [22]

# 10 >>>Cell Reselection Priority ELEMENT FALSE cellReselection
Priority IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 11 >>>Cell Reselection Sub ELEMENT FALSE cellReselection
Priority SubPriority IE in TS 38.331 [22] >T-320 timer expiry ELEMENT FALSE t320 IE in TS 38.331 [22]

### 8.4.9 UE identification, information and assignment

#### 8.4.9.1 UE to Explicit UE list assignment command
Upon receiving the RIC Control Request message, the E2 node shall invoke procedures related to the assignment of a target UE to an Explicit UE List and modify the corresponding Explicit UE List according to the contents of the RIC Control Message based on the following RAN Parameters. RIC Control Message IE contents: RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key Flag RAN Parameter Semantics Parameter Parameter Definition Description ID Value Type

# 1001 List of supported LIST To provide a list of Explicit UE list Explicit UE List
records

# 1002 >Explicit UE list STRUCTURE To provide
information information on a specific Explicit UE List record

# 1003 >>Explicit UE list ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER Identifier of Explicit
identifier UE List

# 1004 >>Explicit UE list ELEMENT FALSE PRINTABLE STRING Name of Explicit UE
name List

# 1005 >>Explicit UE list ELEMENT FALSE PRINTABLE STRING Text description of description Explicit UE list
ii) If the outcome is not successful The following RAN Parameters are to be used for all assignment commands: RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key Flag RAN Parameter Semantics Parameter Parameter Definition Description ID Value Type

# 1010 Failure Cause ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER 0= reserved
1= UE already assigned to Explicit UE list

# 4 = Other

# 5 = Explicit UE List
not supported

#### 8.4.9.2 UE information request
Upon receiving the RIC Control Request message, the E2 node shall invoke procedures related to UE information request according to the RAN Parameter IDs listed in the contents of the RIC Control Message E2SM-RC Control Message Format 4 optional RAN Parameter Definition IE based on RAN Parameters: RAN Parameter RAN RAN Key Flag RAN Parameter Semantics ID Parameter Parameter Definition Description Value Type UE information Defined in clause 8.1.3 RAN Parameters for UE information Upon processing the procedures related to handling of UE information request, the E2 Node shall use the optional RIC Control Outcome IE to report the call processing outcome to the Near-RT RIC as a response to the control action: i) If the outcome is successful RAN Parameter RAN RAN RAN Parameter Key Flag RAN Semantics Category Parameter Parameter Value Type Parameter Description ID Name Definition UE information Defined in clause 8.1.3 RAN Parameters for UE information ii) If the outcome is not successful RAN Parameter RAN RAN RAN Parameter Key Flag RAN Semantics Category Parameter Parameter Value Type Parameter Description ID Name Definition Failure cause Defined in clause 8.4.9.1

#### 8.4.9.3 UE identification request
Upon receiving the RIC Control Request message, the E2 node shall invoke procedures related to UE identification request according to the contents of the RIC Control Header IE. Upon processing the procedures related to handling of UE Identification request, the E2 Node shall use the optional RIC Control Outcome IE to report the call processing outcome to the Near-RT RIC as a response to the control action: i) If the outcome is successful RAN Parameter RAN RAN RAN Parameter Key Flag RAN Semantics Category Parameter Parameter Value Type Parameter Description ID Name Definition UE ID list Defined in clause 8.1.3 RAN Parameters for UE identification for UE ID List ii) If the outcome is not successful RAN Parameter RAN RAN RAN Parameter Key Flag RAN Semantics Category Parameter Parameter Value Type Parameter Description ID Name Definition Failure cause Defined in clause 8.4.9.1

### 8.4.10 Measurement Reporting Configuration Control

#### 8.4.10.1 Add MR Configuration
Upon receiving the RIC Control Request message with the Measurement Report Configuration Control Service Style and the Add MR Configuration control action, the E2 node shall invoke relevant RRC procedures to configure Measurement Report to the UE. E2 Node shall include the IEs corresponding to one or more of RAN parameters described below in the related RRC or NI interface messages. In the case of UE group-based control action, the above RRC procedure(s) is invoked individually for each individual UE within the group. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key RAN Semantics Parameter Parameter Flag Parameter Description ID Value Type Definition

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 4 2>CHOICE STRUCTURE measObject
MO Type IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 11 3>NR MO STRUCTURE MeasObjectN

# R IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 12 4>SSB Frequency ELEMENT TRUE ARFCN- ValueNR IE in
TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 13 4>SSB Subcarrier spacing ELEMENT FALSE subcarrierSpa
cing IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 14 4>SSB Primary MTC STRUCTURE smtc1 IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 15 5>CHOICE Periodicity and STRUCTURE periodicityAn
Offset dOffset IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 16 6>Sub-frame 5 ELEMENT FALSE sf5 IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 17 6>Sub-frame 10 ELEMENT FALSE sf10 IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 18 6>Sub-frame 20 ELEMENT FALSE sf20 IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 19 6>Sub-frame 40 ELEMENT FALSE sf40 IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 20 6>Sub-frame 80 ELEMENT FALSE sf80 IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 21 6>Sub-frame 160 ELEMENT FALSE sf160 IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 22 5>Duration ELEMENT FALSE duration IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 31 4>SSB Secondary MTC STRUCTURE smtc2 IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 32 5>List of cells LIST pci-List IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 33 6>Cell Item STRUCTURE physCellID IE
in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 34 7>PCI ELEMENT TRUE physCelIID IE
in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 35 5>Periodicity ELEMENT FALSE periodicity IE
in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 36 4>Reference Frequency CSI – ELEMENT TRUE refFreqCSI- RS RS IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 37 4>Reference Signal Config STRUCTURE referenceSign
alConfig IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 38 5>SSB Configuration STRUCTURE SSB- Mobility ConfigMobilit
y IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 40 6>CHOICE SSB To STRUCTURE SSB- Measure for setup ToMeasure
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 41 7>Short Bitmap ELEMENT FALSE shortBitmap
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 42 7>Medium Bitmap ELEMENT FALSE mediumBitma
p IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 43 7>Long Bitmap ELEMENT FALSE longBitmap IE
in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 44 6>Derive SSB Index ELEMENT FALSE deriveSSB- From Cell IndexFromCel
l IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 45 6>SS RSSI STRUCTURE ss-RSSI- Measurement Measurement
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 46 7>Measurement Slots ELEMENT FALSE measurement
Slots IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 47 7>End Symbol ELEMENT FALSE endSymbol IE
in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 50 6>CSI RS Resource STRUCTURE csi-rs- Config Mobility for setup ResourceCon
figMobility IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 51 7>Reference Serving ELEMENT TRUE refServellInde
cell Index x IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 52 7>Sub carrier spacing ELEMENT FALSE subcarrierSpa
cing IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 53 7>CSI RS Cell List LIST csi-RS- Mobility CellList-
Mobility IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 54 8>CSI RS Cell STRUCTURE CSI-RS- Mobility CellMobility
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 55 9>Physical ELEMENT TRUE PhysCellID IE
Cell ID in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 56 9>CSI RS STRUCTURE csi-rs- Measurement Measurement
Bandwidth BW IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 57 10>Numbe ELEMENT FALSE nrofPRBs IE
r of PRBs in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 58 10>Start ELEMENT FALSE startPRB IE in PRB TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 59 9>Density ELEMENT FALSE density IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 60 9>CSI RS LIST csi-rs- Resource List ResourceList-
Mobility Mobility IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 61 10>CSI RS STRUCTURE CSI-RS- Resource Resource-
Item Mobility IE in Mobility TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 62 11>CSI ELEMENT TRUE csi-RS-Index
RS IE in TS Index 38.331 Sec 6

# 63 11>CH STRUCTURE slotConfig IE
OICE in TS 38.331 Slot Sec 6 Config

# 64 12> ELEMENT FALSE ms4 IE in TS
ms4 38.331 Sec 6

# 65 12> ELEMENT FALSE ms5 IE in TS
ms5 38.331 Sec 6

# 66 12> ELEMENT FALSE ms10 IE in TS
ms1 38.331 Sec 6

# 67 12> ELEMENT FALSE ms20 IE in TS
ms2 38.331 Sec 6

# 68 12> ELEMENT FALSE ms40 IE in TS
ms4 38.331 Sec 6

# 69 11>Ass STRUCTURE assoiatedSS
ociated B IE in TS SSB 38.331 Sec 6

# 70 12> ELEMENT TRUE ssb-Index IE
SS in TS 38.331

# B Sec 6
Ind ex

# 71 12> ELEMENT FALSE isQuasiColoc
Is ated IE in TS Qua 38.331 Sec 6 si colo colo

# 72 11>CH STRUCTURE frequencyDo
OICE mainAllocatio Freque n IE in TS ncy 38.331 Sec 6 Domain Allocati on

# 73 12> ELEMENT FALSE row1 IE in TS
Fre 38.331 Sec 6 que ncy Do mai n Allo cati on Ro w 1

# 74 12> ELEMENT FALSE row2 IE in TS
Fre 38.331 Sec 6 que ncy Do mai n Allo cati on Ro w 2

# 75 11>Firs ELEMENT FALSE firstOFDMSy
t OFDM mbolInTimeD Symbol omain IE in in Time TS 38.331 Domain Sec 6

# 76 11>Seq ELEMENT FALSE sequenecGen
uence erationConfig Genera IE in TS tion 38.331 Sec 6 Config

# 77 4>Absolute Threshold SSB – STRUCTURE absThreshSS
Block Consolidation - BlocksConsol idation IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 78 5>Block Consolidation ELEMENT FALSE RSRP-Range
Threshold RSRP IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 79 5>Block Consolidation ELEMENT FALSE RSRQ-Range
Threshold RSRQ IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 80 5>Block Consolidation ELEMENT FALSE SINR-Range
Threshold SINR IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 81 4>Absolute Threshold CSI STRUCTURE absThreshCS
RS Consolidation I-RS- Consolidation IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 82 5>RS Consolidation ELEMENT FALSE RSRP-Range
Threshold RSRP IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 83 5>RS Consoldation ELEMENT FALSE RSRQ-Range
Threshold RSRQ IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 84 5>RS Consolidated ELEMENT FALSE SINR-Range
Threshold SINR IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 91 4>Number of SS blocks to ELEMENT FALSE nrofSS- average BlocksToAver
age IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 92 4>Number of CSI RS ELEMENT FALSE nrofCSI-RS- Resources to average ResouresToA
verage IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 93 4>Quantity Config Index ELEMENT TRUE quantityConfi
gIndex IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 100 4>Q-Offset MO Range STRUCTURE offsetMO IE
Sequence in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 101 5>RSRP Offset SSB ELEMENT FALSE rsrpOffsetSS

# B IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 102 5>RSRQ Offset SSB ELEMENT FALSE rsrqOffsetSS

# B IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 103 5>SINR Offset SSB ELEMENT FALSE sinrOffsetSSB
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 104 5>RSRP Offset CSI RS ELEMENT FALSE rsrpOffsetCSI
-RS IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 105 5>RSRQ Offset CSI RS ELEMENT FALSE rsrqOffsetCSI
-RS IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 106 5>SINR Offset CSI RS ELEMENT FALSE sinrOffsetCSI- RS IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 110 4>Cells to Add List LIST CellsToAddM
odList IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 111 5>Cell to Add Item STRUCTURE CellsToAdd
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 112 6>Cell to Add - ELEMENT TRUE physCellID IE
Physical Cell ID in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 113 6>Cell Individual STRUCTURE cellIndividual
Offset Offset IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 115 7>RSRP Offset ELEMENT FALSE rsrpOffsetSS
SSB B IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 116 7>RSRQ Offset ELEMENT FALSE rsrqOffsetSS
SSB B IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 117 7>SINR Offset ELEMENT FALSE sinrOffsetSSB
SSB IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 118 7>RSRP Offset ELEMENT FALSE rsrpOffsetCSI
CSI RS -RS IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 119 7>RSRQ Offset ELEMENT FALSE rsrqOffsetCSI
CSI RS -RS IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 120 7>SINR Offset ELEMENT FALSE sinrOffsetCSI- CSI RS RS IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 125 4>Black cells to Add List LIST blackCellsTo
AddModList IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 126 5>Black cell to Add Item STRUCTURE PCI- RangeEleme
nt IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 127 6>Black cell to Add – ELEMENT TRUE PCI- Physical Cell Range RangeIndex
Index IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 128 6>Physical Cell ID - STRUCTURE PCI-Range IE
Range in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 129 7>Physical Cell ID ELEMENT TRUE physCellId IE
Start in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 130 7>Physical Cell ID ELEMENT FALSE range IE in Range TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 135 4>White cells to Add List LIST whiteCellsTo
AddModList IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 136 5>White cell to Add Item STRUCTURE PCI- RangeEleme
nt IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 137 6>White cell to Add – ELEMENT TRUE PCI- Physical Cell Range RangeIndex
Index IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 138 6>Physical Cell ID - STRUCTURE PCI-Range IE
Range in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 129 7>Physical Cell ID ELEMENT TRUE PhysCellId IE
Start in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 130 7>Physical Cell ID ELEMENT FALSE range IE in Range TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 141 4>Frequency Band Indicator ELEMENT TRUE freqBandIndic
NR atorNR IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 142 4>Measurement Cycle ELEMENT FALSE measCycleS
Secondary cell Cell IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 151 3>E-UTRA MO STRUCTURE MeasObjectE
UTRA IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 152 4>E-UTRA Carrier Frequency ELEMENT TRUE carrierFreq IE
in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 153 4>E-UTRA Allowed ELEMENT FALSE allowedMeas
Measurement Bandwidth Bandwidth IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 171 4>List of E-UTRA cells to add LIST cellsToAddM
odListEUTRA

# N IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 172 5>E-UTRA Cell to add Item STRUCTURE

# 173 6>E-UTRA Cell to add STRUCTURE EUTRA-Cell
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 174 7>E-UTRA PCI to ELEMENT TRUE EUTRA- add PhysCellId IE
in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 175 7>E-UTRA Cell ELEMENT FALSE cellIndividual
Individual Offset Offset IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 191 4>List of E-UTRA black cells to LIST blackCellsTo
add AddModList IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 192 5>E-UTRA black cell to add STRUCTURE
item

# 193 6>E-UTRA black cell to STRUCTURE EUTRA- add BlackCell IE
in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 194 7>E-UTRA Physical STRUCTURE EUTRA- Cell ID Range PhysCellIdRa
nge IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 195 8>E-UTRA PCI ELEMENT TRUE EUTRA- Start PhysCellId IE
in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 196 8>E-UTRA PCI ELEMENT FALSE range IE in Range TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 201 4>E-UTRA Presence Antenna ELEMENT FALSE eutra- Port 1 PresenceAnte
nnaPort1 IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 205 4>E-UTRA Q Offset Range ELEMENT FALSE eutra-Q- OffsetRange
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 210 4>Wideband RSRQ ELEMENT FALSE widebandRS
Measurement RQ-Meas IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 301 List of Report Config Objects to Add LIST ReportConfig
ToAddModLis t IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 302 1>Report Config Object to Add Item STRUCTURE ReportConfig
ToAddMod IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 303 2>Report Config Sequence ID ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER This is the (1..64) unique ID
used by the RIC for the measurement object it seeks to add via the control service style.

# 304 2>CHOICE Report Config Type STRUCTURE reportConfig
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 311 3>NR Report Config STRUCTURE ReportConfig
NR IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 312 4>CHOICE Report Type STRUCTURE reportType IE
in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 313 5>Periodical Report Config STRUCTURE PeriodicalRep
ortConfig IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 314 6>NR RS Type ELEMENT FALSE NR-RS-Type
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 315 6>NR Report Interval ELEMENT FALSE ReportInterval
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 316 6>NR Report Amount ELEMENT FALSE reportAmount
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 317 6>Measurement Report STRUCTURE MeasReportQ
Quantity uantity IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 318 7>MR RSRP ELEMENT FALSE rsrp IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 319 7>MR RSRQ ELEMENT FALSE rsrq IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 320 7>MR SINR ELEMENT FALSE sinr IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 321 6>Maximum number of ELEMENT FALSE maxReportCe
Report cells lls IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 322 6>Report Quantity STRUCTURE reportQuantit
Reference Signal – yRS-Indexes Indexes IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 323 7>Report Qty RSRP ELEMENT FALSE rsrp IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 324 7>Report Qty RSRQ ELEMENT FALSE rsrq IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 325 7>Report Qty SINR ELEMENT FALSE sinr IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 326 6>Maximum number of ELEMENT FALSE maxNrofRS- reference signals – IndexesToRe
Indexes to Report port IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 327 6>Include Beam ELEMENT FALSE includeBeam
Measurements Measuremetn s IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 328 6>Use WhiteCellList ELEMENT FALSE useWhiteCell
List IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 331 5>Event Trigger Config STRUCTURE EventTrigger
Config IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 332 6>CHOICE Event ID STRUCTURE eventide IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 333 7>Event A1 STRUCTURE eventA1 IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 334 8>A1 Threshold STRUCTURE a1-Threshold
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 335 9>CHOICE A1 STRUCTURE MeasTrigger
Threshold Quantity IE in Type TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 336 10>A1 ELEMENT FALSE rsrp IE in TS RSRP-Range
Threshold 38.331 Sec 6 IE RSRP

# 337 10>A1 ELEMENT FALSE rsrq IE in TS RSRQ-Range
Threshold 38.331 Sec 6 IE RSRQ

# 338 10>A1 ELEMENT FALSE sinr IE in TS SINR-Range
Threshold 38.331 Sec 6 IE SINR

# 339 9>A1 Report ELEMENT FALSE reportOnLeav
On Leave e IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 340 9>A1 ELEMENT FALSE hysteresis IE
Hysteresis in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 341 9>A1 Time to ELEMENT FALSE timeToTrigger
Trigger IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 343 7>Event A2 STRUCTURE eventA2 IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 344 8>A2 Threshold STRUCTURE A2-Threshold
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 345 9>CHOICE A2 STRUCTURE MeasTrigger
Threshold Quantity IE in Type TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 346 10>A2 ELEMENT FALSE rsrp IE in TS RSRP-Range
Threshold 38.331 Sec 6 IE RSRP

# 347 10>A2 ELEMENT FALSE rsrq IE in TS RSRQ-Range
Threshold 38.331 Sec 6 IE RSRQ

# 348 10>A2 ELEMENT FALSE sinr IE in TS SINR-Range
Threshold 38.331 Sec 6 IE SINR

# 349 9>A2 Report ELEMENT FALSE reportOnLeav
On Leave e IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 350 9>A2 ELEMENT FALSE hysteresis IE
Hysteresis in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 351 9>A2 Time to ELEMENT FALSE timeToTrigger
Trigger IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 353 7>Event A3 STRUCTURE eventA3 IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 354 8>A3 Offset STRUCTURE a3-Threshold
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 355 9>CHOICE A3 STRUCTURE MeasTrigger
Offset Type QuantityOffse t IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 356 10>A3 ELEMENT FALSE rsrp IE in TS
Threshold 38.331 Sec 6 RSRP Offset

# 357 10>A3 ELEMENT FALSE rsrq IE in TS
Threshold 38.331 Sec 6 RSRQ Offset

# 358 10>A3 ELEMENT FALSE sinr IE in TS
Threshold 38.331 Sec 6 SINR Offset

# 359 9>A3 Report ELEMENT FALSE reportOnLeav
On Leave e IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 360 9>A3 ELEMENT FALSE hysteresis IE
Hysteresis in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 361 9>A3 Time to ELEMENT FALSE timeToTrigger
Trigger IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 362 9>Use White ELEMENT FALSE useWhiteCell
Cell List List IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 363 7>Event A4 STRUCTURE eventA4 IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 364 8>A4 Threshold STRUCTURE A4-Threshold
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 365 9>CHOICE A4 STRUCTURE MeasTrigger
Threshold Quantity IE in Type TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 366 10>A4 ELEMENT FALSE rsrp IE in TS RSRP-Range
Threshold 38.331 Sec 6 IE RSRP

# 367 10>A4 ELEMENT FALSE rsrq IE in TS RSRQ-Range
Threshold 38.331 Sec 6 IE RSRQ

# 368 10>A4 ELEMENT FALSE sinr IE in TS SINR-Range
Threshold 38.331 Sec 6 IE SINR

# 369 9>A4 Report ELEMENT FALSE reportOnLeav
On Leave e IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 370 9>A4 ELEMENT FALSE hysteresis IE
Hysteresis in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 371 9>A4 Time to ELEMENT FALSE timeToTrigger
Trigger IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 372 9>Use White ELEMENT FALSE useWhiteCell
Cell List List IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 375 7>Event A5 STRUCTURE eventA5 IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 376 8>A5 Threshold 1 STRUCTURE a5- Threshold1 IE
in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 377 9>CHOICE A5 STRUCTURE MeasTrigger
Threshold1 Quantity IE in Type TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 378 10>A5 ELEMENT FALSE rsrp IE in TS RSRP-Range
Threshold1 38.331 Sec 6 IE RSRP

# 379 10>A5 ELEMENT FALSE rsrq IE in TS RSRQ-Range
Threshold1 38.331 Sec 6 IE

# 380 10>A5 ELEMENT FALSE sinr IE in TS SINR-Range
Threshold1 38.331 Sec 6 IE SINR

# 381 9>CHOICE A5 STRUCTURE a5- Threshold2 Threshold2 IE
Type in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 382 10>A5 ELEMENT FALSE MeasTrigger
Threshold2 Quantity IE in RSRP TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 379 10>A5 ELEMENT FALSE rsrp IE in TS RSRP-Range
Threshold2 38.331 Sec 6 IE RSRQ

# 380 10>A5 ELEMENT FALSE rsrq IE in TS RSRQ-Range
Threshold2 38.331 Sec 6 IE SINR

# 381 9>A5 Report ELEMENT FALSE reportOnLeav
On Leave e IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 382 9>A5 ELEMENT FALSE hysteresis IE
Hysteresis in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 383 9>A5 Time to ELEMENT FALSE timeToTrigger
Trigger IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 384 9>Use White ELEMENT FALSE useWhiteCell
Cell List List IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 391 7>Event A6 STRUCTURE eventA6 IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 392 8>A6 Threshold STRUCTURE A6-Threshold
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 393 9>CHOICE A6 STRUCTURE MeasTrigger
Threshold QuantityOffse Type t IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 394 10>A6 ELEMENT FALSE rsrp IE in TS
Threshold 38.331 Sec 6 RSRP Offset

# 395 10>A6 ELEMENT FALSE rsrq IE in TS
Threshold 38.331 Sec 6 RSRQ Offset

# 396 10>A6 ELEMENT FALSE sinr IE in TS
Threshold 38.331 Sec 6 SINR Offset

# 397 9>A6 Report ELEMENT FALSE reportOnLeav
On Leave e IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 398 9>A6 ELEMENT FALSE hysteresis IE
Hysteresis in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 399 9>A6 Time to ELEMENT FALSE timeToTrigger
Trigger IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 400 9>Use White ELEMENT FALSE useWhiteCell
Cell List List IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 405 5>Report CGI STRUCTURE ReportCGI IE
in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 406 6>Cell to Report CGI ELEMENT TRUE PhysCellId IE
in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 411 5>Report SFTD – NR STRUCTURE ReportSFTD- NR IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 412 6>Report SFTD – ELEMENT FALSE reportSFTD- Measurement Meas IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 413 6>Report RSRP ELEMENT FALSE reportRSRP
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 414 6>Report SFTD Neigh ELEMENT FALSE reportSFTD- Meas NeighMeas IE
in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 415 6>DRX SFTD Neigh ELEMENT FALSE drx-SFTD- Meas NeighMeas IE
in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 416 6>List of cells for which LIST cellsForWhic
to report SFTD hToReportSF TD IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 417 7>Cell Item for STRUCTURE
reporting SFTD

# 418 8>Physical Cell ELEMENT TRUE PhyCellId IE
Identity in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 421 3>Report Config Inter RAT STRUCTURE ReportConfigI
nterRAT IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 422 4>CHOICE Report Type STRUCTURE reportType IE
in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 423 5>Periodical Report Config STRUCTURE PeriodicalRep
Inter RAT ortConfigInter RAT IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 431 6>Periodical Inter-RAT ELEMENT FALSE reportInterval
Report Interval IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 432 6>Periodical Inter-RAT ELEMENT FALSE reportAmount
Report Amount IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 435 6>Periodical Inter-RAT STRUCTURE reportQuantit
Report Quantity y IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 436 7>Inter-RAT RSRP ELEMENT FALSE rsrp IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 437 7>Inter-RAT RSRQ ELEMENT FALSE rsrq IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 438 7>Inter-RAT SINR ELEMENT FALSE sinr IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 439 6>Maximum number of ELEMENT FALSE maxReportCe
cells for reporting lls IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 441 5>Event Trigger Config Inter STRUCTURE EventTrigger
RAT ConfigInterR AT IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 442 6>CHOICE Event ID STRUCTURE eventId IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 451 7>Event B1 STRUCTURE eventB1 IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 452 8>B1 Threshold STRUCTURE b1- EUTRA ThresholdEU
TRA IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 453 9>E-UTRA ELEMENT FALSE RSRP- RSRP RangeEUTR

# A IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 454 9>E-UTRA ELEMENT FALSE RSRQ- RSRQ RangeEUTR

# A IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 455 9>E-UTRA ELEMENT FALSE SINR- SINR RangeEUTR

# A IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 456 8>Event B1 ELEMENT FALSE reportOnLeav
Report On Leave e IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 457 8>E-UTRA ELEMENT FALSE hystereisis IE
Hysteresis in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 458 8>E-UTRA Time ELEMENT FALSE timeToTrigger
To Trigger IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 471 7>Event B2 STRUCTURE eventB2 IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 472 8>B2 Threshold1 STRUCTURE b2- NR Threshold1 IE
in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 475 9>B2 ELEMENT FALSE RSRP-Range
Threshold1 IE in TS NR RSRP 38.331 Sec 6

# 476 9>B2 ELEMENT FALSE RSRQ-Range
Threshold1 IE in TS NR RSRQ 38.331 Sec 6

# 477 9>B2 ELEMENT FALSE SINR-Range
Threshold1 IE in TS NR SINR 38.331 Sec 6

# 481 8>B2 Threshold2 STRUCTURE b2- E-UTRA Threshold2E
UTRA IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 482 9>B2 ELEMENT FALSE RSRP- Threshold2 E- RangeEUTR
UTRA RSRP A IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 483 9>B2 ELEMENT FALSE RSRQ- Threshold2 E- RangeEUTR
UTRA RSRQ A IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 484 9>B2 ELEMENT FALSE SINR- Threshold2 E- RangeEUTR
UTRA SINR A IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 491 6>Inter-RAT Reference ELEMENT FALSE rsType IE in Signal Type TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 492 6>Inter-RAT Report ELEMENT FALSE reportInterval
Interval IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 493 6>Inter-RAT Report ELEMENT FALSE reportAmount
Amount IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 501 6>Inter-RAT Report STRUCTURE reportQuantit
Quantity y IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 502 7>Inter-RAT Report ELEMENT FALSE rsrp IE in TS
Quantity RSRP 38.331 Sec 6

# 503 7>Inter-RAT Report ELEMENT FALSE rsrq IE in TS
Quantity RSRQ 38.331 Sec 6

# 504 7>Inter-RAT Report ELEMENT FALSE sinr IE in TS
Quantity SINR 38.331 Sec 6

# 510 6>Maximum number of ELEMENT FALSE maxReportCe
cells to be reported lls IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 519 CHOICE NR SpCell RSRP Measurement STRUCTURE s- Controlling MeasureConfi
g IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 520 1>SSB RSRP ELEMENT FALSE ssb-RSRP IE
in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 521 1>CSI RSRP ELEMENT FALSE csi-RSRP IE
in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 525 Quantity Config STRUCTURE QuantityConfi
g IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 526 1>Quantity Config NR List LIST quantityConfi
gNR-List IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 527 2>Quantity Config NR STRUCTURE quantityConfi
gNR IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 528 3>Quantity Config NR Cell STRUCTURE quantityConfi
gCell IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 529 4>SSB Filter Config STRUCTURE ssb- FilterConfig
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 530 5>SSB Filter Coefficient ELEMENT FALSE filterCoefficie
RSRP ntRSRP IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 531 5>SSB Filter Coefficient ELEMENT FALSE filterCoefficie
RSRQ ntRSRQ IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 532 5>SSB Filter Coefficient RS- ELEMENT FALSE filterCoefficie
SINR ntSINR IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 533 4>CSI RS Filter Config STRUCTURE csi-RS- FilterConfig
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 534 5>CSI RS Filter Coefficient ELEMENT FALSE filterCoefficie
RSRP ntRSRP IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 535 5>CSI RS Filter Coefficient ELEMENT FALSE filterCoefficie
RSRQ ntRSRQ IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 536 5>CSI RS Filter Coefficient ELEMENT FALSE filterCoefficie
RS-SINR ntSINR IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 541 1>Quantity Config E-UTRA STRUCTURE quantityConfi
gEUTRA IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 542 2>E-UTRA Filter Coefficient RSRP ELEMENT FALSE filterCoefficie
ntRSRP IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 543 2>E-UTRA Filter Coefficient RSRQ ELEMENT FALSE filterCoefficie
ntRSRQ IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 544 2>E-UTRA Filter Coefficient RS-SINR ELEMENT FALSE filterCoefficie
ntSINR IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 551 Measurement Gap Config STRUCTURE MeasGapCon
fig IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 552 1>Gap FR2 for setup STRUCTURE gapFR2 IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 553 2>FR2 Gap Offset ELEMENT FALSE gapOffset IE
in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 554 2>FR2 Measurement Gap Length ELEMENT FALSE mgl IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 555 2>FR2 Measurement Gap Repetition ELEMENT FALSE mgrp IE in TS
Period 38.331 Sec 6

# 556 2>FR2 Measurement Gap Timing ELEMENT FALSE mgta IE in TS
Analysis 38.331 Sec 6

# 557 2>FR2 Reference Serving Cell ELEMENT TRUE refServCellIn
Indicator dicator IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 560 1>Gap FR1 for setup STRUCTURE gapFR1 IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 561 2>FR1 Gap Offset ELEMENT FALSE gapOffset IE
in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 562 2>FR1 Measurement Gap Length ELEMENT FALSE mgl IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 563 2>FR1 Measurement Gap Repetition ELEMENT FALSE mgrp IE in TS
Period 38.331 Sec 6

# 564 2>FR1 Measurement Gap Timing ELEMENT FALSE mgta IE in TS
Analysis 38.331 Sec 6

# 565 2>FR1 Reference Serving Cell ELEMENT TRUE refServCellIn
Indicator dicator IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 570 1>Gap UE for setup STRUCTURE gapUE IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 571 2>UE Gap Offset ELEMENT FALSE gapOffset IE
in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 572 2>UE Measurement Gap Length ELEMENT FALSE mgl IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 573 2>UE Measurement Gap Reptition ELEMENT FALSE mgrp IE in TS
Period 38.331 Sec 6

# 574 2>UE Measurement Gap Timing ELEMENT FALSE mgta IE in TS
Analysis 38.331 Sec 6

# 575 2>UE Reference Serving Cell Indicator ELEMENT TRUE refServCellIn
dicator IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 581 Measurement Gap Sharing Config STRUCTURE MeasGapSha
ringConfig IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 582 1>Gap Sharing FR2 for setup ELEMENT FALSE gapFR2 IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 583 1>Gap Sharing FR1 for setup ELEMENT FALSE gapFR1 IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 584 1>Gap Sharing UE for setup ELEMENT FALSE gapUE IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

#### 8.4.10.2 Modify MR Configuration
Upon receiving the RIC Control Request message with the Measurement Report Configuration Control Service Style and the Modify MR Configuration control action, the E2 node shall invoke RRC procedures related to MR Configuration, include the IEs corresponding to one or more of parameters described below in the related NI interface messages or RRC message. In the case of UE group-based control action, the above RRC procedure(s) is invoked individually for each individual UE within the group. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key RAN Semantics Parameter Parameter Flag Parameter Description ID Value Type Definition List of Measurement Objects to modify or add LIST measObjectT for modification oAddModList IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6
1>Measurement Object to modify or add for STRUCTURE MeasObjectT modification Item oAddMod IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6 2>Measurement Object ID ELEMENT TRUE MeasObjec This is the ID tID IE in TS used by the

## 38.331 Sec E2 node for the
measurement object for the UE via RRCReconfig uration message

# 4 2>CHOICE STRUCTURE measObject
MO Type IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 11 3>NR MO STRUCTURE MeasObjectN

# R IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 12 4>SSB Frequency ELEMENT TRUE ARFCN- ValueNR
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 13 4>SSB Subcarrier spacing ELEMENT FALSE Subcarrier
Spacing IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 14 4>SSB Primary MTC STRUCTURE smtc1 IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 15 5>CHOICE Periodicity and STRUCTURE periodicityAn
Offset dOffset IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 16 6>Sub-frame 5 ELEMENT FALSE sf5 IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 17 6>Sub-frame 10 ELEMENT FALSE sf10 IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 18 6>Sub-frame 20 ELEMENT FALSE sf20 IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 19 6>Sub-frame 40 ELEMENT FALSE sf40 IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 20 6>Sub-frame 80 ELEMENT FALSE sf80 IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 21 6>Sub-frame 160 ELEMENT FALSE sf160 IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 22 5>Duration ELEMENT FALSE duration IE
in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 31 4>SSB Secondary MTC STRUCTURE smtc2 IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 32 5>List of cells LIST pci-List IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 33 6>Cell Item STRUCTURE PhysCellID IE
in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 34 7>PCI ELEMENT TRUE physCelIID
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 35 5>Periodicity ELEMENT FALSE periodicity
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 36 4>Reference Frequency CSI – RS ELEMENT TRUE refFreqCSI
-RS IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 37 4>Reference Signal Config STRUCTURE referenceSign
alConfig IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 38 5>SSB Configuration Mobility STRUCTURE SSB- ConfigMobilit
y IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6
6>Setup or Release SSB to ELEMENT FALSE ENUMERA SetupReleas Measure TED e IE in TS (setup,rele 38.331 Sec 6 ase,…)

# 40 6>CHOICE SSB To STRUCTURE SSB- Measure for setup ToMeasure
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 41 7>Short Bitmap ELEMENT FALSE shortBitma
p IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 42 7>Medium Bitmap ELEMENT FALSE mediumBit
map IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 43 7>Long Bitmap ELEMENT FALSE longBitmap
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 44 6>Derive SSB Index From ELEMENT FALSE deriveSSB- Cell IndexFrom
Cell IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 45 6>SS RSSI Measurement STRUCTURE ss-RSSI- Measurement
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 46 7>Measurement Slots ELEMENT FALSE measurem
entSlots IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 47 7>End Symbol ELEMENT FALSE endSymbol
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec
6>Setup or Release CSI RS ELEMENT FALSE ENUMERA SetupReleas Resource Config Mobility TED e IE in TS (setup, 38.331 Sec 6 release,…)

# 50 6>CSI RS Resource Config STRUCTURE csi-rs- Mobility for Setup ResourceCon
figMobility IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 51 7>Reference Serving ELEMENT TRUE refServCell
cell Index Index IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 52 7>Sub carrier spacing ELEMENT FALSE subcarrierS
pacing IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 53 7>CSI RS Cell List LIST csi-RS- Mobility CellList-
Mobility IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 54 8>CSI RS Cell STRUCTURE CSI-RS- Mobility CellMobility
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 55 9>Physical Cell ELEMENT TRUE PhysCellID
ID IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 56 9>CSI RS STRUCTURE csi-rs- Measurement Measurement
Bandwidth BW IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 57 10>Number ELEMENT FALSE nrofPRBs
of PRBs IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 58 10>Start PRB ELEMENT FALSE startPRB
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 59 9>Density ELEMENT FALSE Density IE
in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 60 9>CSI RS LIST csi-rs- Resource List ResourceList-
Mobility Mobility IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 61 10>CSI RS STRUCTURE CSI-RS- Resource Resource-
Item Mobility Mobility IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 62 11>CSI ELEMENT TRUE csi-RS- RS Index Index IE in
TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 63 11>CHOI STRUCTURE slotConfig IE
CE Slot in TS 38.331 Config Sec 6

# 4 TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 5 TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 10 TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 20 TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 40 TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 69 11>Associ STRUCTURE assoiatedSS
ated SSB B IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 70 12>SS ELEMENT TRUE ssb-Index

# B IE in TS
Index 38.331 Sec

# 71 12>Is ELEMENT FALSE isQuasiCol
Quasi ocated IE colocol in TS o 38.331 Sec

# 72 11>CHOI STRUCTURE frequencyDo
CE mainnAllocati Frequenc on IE in TS y Domain 38.331 Sec 6 Allocation

# 73 12>Fr ELEMENT FALSE row1 IE in equen TS 38.331
cy Sec 6 Domai n Allocat ion Row 1

# 74 12>Fr ELEMENT FALSE row2 IE in equen TS 38.331
cy Sec 6 Domai n Allocat ion Row 2

# 75 11>First ELEMENT FALSE firstOFDM
OFDM SymbolInTi Symbol in meDomain Time IE in TS Domain 38.331 Sec

# 76 11>Seque ELEMENT FALSE sequenecG
nce enerationC Generatio onfig IE in n Config TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 77 4>Absolute Threshold SSB – STRUCTURE absThreshSS
Block Consolidation - BlocksConsol idation IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 78 5>Block Consolidation ELEMENT FALSE RSRP- Threshold RSRP Range IE
in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 79 5>Block Consolidation ELEMENT FALSE RSRQ- Threshold RSRQ Range IE
in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 80 5>Block Consolidation ELEMENT FALSE SINR- Threshold SINR Range IE
in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 81 4>Absolute Threshold CSI RS STRUCTURE absThreshCS
Consolidation I-RS- Consolidation IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 82 5>RS Consolidation ELEMENT FALSE RSRP- Threshold RSRP Range IE
in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 83 5>RS Consoldation ELEMENT FALSE RSRQ- Threshold RSRQ Range IE
in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 84 5>RS Consolidated ELEMENT FALSE SINR- Threshold SINR Range IE
in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 91 4>Number of SS blocks to ELEMENT FALSE nrofSS- average BlocksToA
verage IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 92 4>Number of CSI RS ELEMENT FALSE nrofCSI- Resources to average RS-
ResouresT oAverage IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 93 4>Quantity Config Index ELEMENT TRUE quantityCo
nfigIndex IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 100 4>Q-Offset MO Range STRUCTURE offsetMO IE
Sequence in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 101 5>RSRP Offset SSB ELEMENT FALSE rsrpOffsetS
SB IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 102 5>RSRQ Offset SSB ELEMENT FALSE rsrqOffsetS
SB IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 103 5>SINR Offset SSB ELEMENT FALSE sinrOffsetS
SB IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 104 5>RSRP Offset CSI RS ELEMENT FALSE rsrpOffsetC
SI-RS IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 105 5>RSRQ Offset CSI RS ELEMENT FALSE rsrqOffsetC
SI-RS IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 106 5>SINR Offset CSI RS ELEMENT FALSE sinrOffsetC
SI-RS IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 107 4>Cells to Remove List LIST cellsToRemo
veList IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 108 5>Cell to Remove Item STRUCTURE

# 109 6>Cell to Remove - ELEMENT TRUE PhysCellID
Physical Cell ID IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 110 4>Cells to modify or add for LIST CellsToAddM
modification List odList IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 111 5>Cell to modify or add for STRUCTURE CellsToAdd
modification Item IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 112 6>Cell to modify or add ELEMENT TRUE PhysCellID
for modification - IE in TS Physical Cell ID 38.331 Sec

# 113 6>Cell Individual Offset STRUCTURE cellIndividual
Offset IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 115 7>RSRP Offset SSB ELEMENT FALSE rsrpOffsetS
SB IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 116 7>RSRQ Offset SSB ELEMENT FALSE rsrqOffsetS
SB IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 117 7>SINR Offset SSB ELEMENT FALSE sinrOffsetS
SB IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 118 7>RSRP Offset CSI ELEMENT FALSE rsrpOffsetC
RS SI-RS IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 119 7>RSRQ Offset CSI ELEMENT FALSE rsrqOffsetC
RS SI-RS IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 120 7>SINR Offset CSI ELEMENT FALSE sinrOffsetC
RS SI-RS IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 121 4>Black cells to Remove List LIST blackCellsTo
RemoveList IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 122 5>Black cell to Remove STRUCTURE
Item

# 123 6>Black cell to Remove ELEMENT TRUE PCI- – Physical Cell Range RangeInde
Index x IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 125 4>Black cells to modify or add LIST blackCellsTo
for modification List AddModList IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 126 5>Black cell to modify or STRUCTURE PCI- add for modification Item RangeEleme
nt IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 127 6>Black cell to modify or ELEMENT TRUE PCI- add for modification – RangeInde
Physical Cell Range x IE in TS Index 38.331 Sec

# 128 6>Physical Cell ID - STRUCTURE PCI-Range IE
Range in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 129 7>PCI Range Start ELEMENT TRUE PhysCellId
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 130 7>PCI Range ELEMENT FALSE range IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 131 4>White cells to Remove List LIST whiteCellsTo
RemoveList IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 132 5>White cell to Remove STRUCTURE whiteCellsTo
Item RemoveList IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 133 6>White cell to Remove ELEMENT TRUE PCI- – Physical Cell Range RangeInde
Index x IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 135 4>White cells to modify or add LIST whiteCellsTo
for modification List AddModList IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 136 5>White cell to modify or STRUCTURE PCI- add for modification Item RangeEleme
nt IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 137 6>White cell to modify or ELEMENT TRUE PCI- add for modification – RangeInde
Physical Cell Range x IE in TS Index 38.331 Sec

# 138 6>Physical Cell ID - STRUCTURE PCI-Range IE
Range in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 139 7>PCI Range Start ELEMENT TRUE physCellId
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 140 7>PCI Range ELEMENT FALSE range IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 141 4>Frequency Band Indicator ELEMENT TRUE freqBandIn
NR dicatorNR IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 142 4>Measurement Cycle ELEMENT FALSE measCycle
Secondary cell SCell IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 151 3>E-UTRA MO STRUCTURE MeasObjectE
UTRA IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 152 4>E-UTRA Carrier Frequency ELEMENT TRUE carrierFreq
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 153 4>E-UTRA Allowed Measurement ELEMENT FALSE allowedMe
Bandwidth asBandwid th IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 161 4>List of E-UTRA cells to remove LIST cellsToRemo
veListEUTRA

# N IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 162 5>E-UTRA Cell to remove Item STRUCTURE

# 164 6>E-UTRA PCI to remove ELEMENT TRUE EUTRA- Note that RIC
PhysCellID cannot use IE in TS the Cell Index

## 38.331 Sec unless
informed by the E2 node, so PCI is used here.

# 171 4>List of E-UTRA cells to modify or LIST cellsToAddM
add for modification odListEUTRA

# N IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 172 5>E-UTRA Cell to modify or STRUCTURE
add for modification Item

# 173 6>E-UTRA Cell to modify or STRUCTURE EUTRA-Cell
add for modification IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 174 7>E-UTRA PCI to ELEMENT TRUE EUTRA- modify or add for PhysCellId
modification IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 175 7>E-UTRA Cell ELEMENT FALSE cellIndividu
Individual Offset alOffset IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 181 4>List of E-UTRA black cells to LIST blackCellsTo
remove RemoveListE UTRAN IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 182 5>E-UTRA black cell to remove STRUCTURE
Item

# 184 6>E-UTRA PCI to remove ELEMENT TRUE EUTRA- PhysCellId
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 191 4>List of E-UTRA black cells to LIST blackCellsTo
modify or add for modification AddModList IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 192 5>E-UTRA black cell to modify STRUCTURE
or add for modification item

# 193 6>E-UTRA black cell to STRUCTURE EUTRA- modify or add for BlackCell IE
modification in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 194 7>E-UTRA Physical Cell STRUCTURE EUTRA- ID Range PhysCellIdRa
nge IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 195 8>E-UTRA PCI Start ELEMENT TRUE EUTRA- PhysCellId
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 196 8>E-UTRA PCI ELEMENT FALSE range IE in Range TS 38.331
Sec 6

## 38.331 Sec

# 205 4>E-UTRA Q Offset Range ELEMENT FALSE eutra-Q- OffsetRang
e IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 210 4>Wideband RSRQ Measurement ELEMENT FALSE widebandR
SRQ-Meas IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 301 List of Report Config Objects to modify or add LIST ReportConfig
for modification ToAddModLis t IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 302 1>Report Config Object to modify or add for STRUCTURE ReportConfig
modification Item ToAddMod IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 303 2>Report Config Object ID ELEMENT TRUE ReportConf This is the ID
igID IE in used by the TS 38.331 E2 node for Sec 6 the report config object for the UE via RRCReconfig uration message

# 304 2>CHOICE Report Config Type STRUCTURE reportConfig
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 311 3>NR Report Config STRUCTURE ReportConfig
NR IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 312 4>CHOICE Report Type STRUCTURE reportType IE
in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 313 5>Periodical Report Config STRUCTURE PeriodicalRep
ortConfig IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 314 6>NR RS Type ELEMENT FALSE NR-RS- Type IE in
TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 315 6>NR Report Interval ELEMENT FALSE ReportInter
val IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 316 6>NR Report Amount ELEMENT FALSE reportAmo
unt IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 317 6>Measurement Report STRUCTURE MeasReportQ
Quantity uantity IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 318 7>MR RSRP ELEMENT FALSE rsrp IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 319 7>MR RSRQ ELEMENT FALSE rsrq IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 320 7>MR SINR ELEMENT FALSE sinr IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 321 6>Maximum number of ELEMENT FALSE maxReport
Report cells ells IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 322 6>Report Quantity STRUCTURE reportQuantit
Reference Signal – Indexes yRS-Indexes IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 323 7>Report Qty RSRP ELEMENT FALSE rsrp IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 324 7>Report Qty RSRQ ELEMENT FALSE rsrq IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 325 7>Report Qty SINR ELEMENT FALSE sinr IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 326 6>Maximum number of ELEMENT FALSE maxNrofR
reference signals – Indexes S- to Report IndexesTo Report IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 327 6>Include Beam ELEMENT FALSE includeBea
Measurements mMeasure metns IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 328 6>Use WhiteCellList ELEMENT FALSE useWhiteC
ellList IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 331 5>Event Trigger Config STRUCTURE EventTrigger
Config IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 332 6>CHOICE Event ID STRUCTURE eventide IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 333 7>Event A1 STRUCTURE eventA1 IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 334 8>A1 Threshold STRUCTURE a1-Threshold
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 335 9>CHOICE A1 STRUCTURE MeasTrigger
Threshold Type Quantity IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 336 10>A1 ELEMENT FALSE rsrp IE in RSRP-Range
Threshold TS 38.331 IE RSRP Sec 6

# 337 10>A1 ELEMENT FALSE rsrq IE in RSRQ-Range
Threshold TS 38.331 IE RSRQ Sec 6

# 338 10>A1 ELEMENT FALSE sinr IE in SINR-Range
Threshold TS 38.331 IE SINR Sec 6

# 339 9>A1 Report On ELEMENT FALSE reportOnLe
Leave ave IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 340 9>A1 Hysteresis ELEMENT FALSE hysteresis
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 341 9>A1 Time to ELEMENT FALSE timeToTrig
Trigger ger IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 343 7>Event A2 STRUCTURE eventA2 IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 344 8>A2 Threshold STRUCTURE A2-Threshold
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 345 9>CHOICE A2 STRUCTURE MeasTrigger
Threshold Type Quantity IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 346 10>A2 ELEMENT FALSE rsrp IE in RSRP-Range
Threshold TS 38.331 IE RSRP Sec 6

# 347 10>A2 ELEMENT FALSE rsrq IE in RSRQ-Range
Threshold TS 38.331 IE RSRQ Sec 6

# 348 10>A2 ELEMENT FALSE sinr IE in SINR-Range
Threshold TS 38.331 IE SINR Sec 6

# 349 9>A2 Report On ELEMENT FALSE reportOnLe
Leave ave IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 350 9>A2 Hysteresis ELEMENT FALSE hysteresis
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 351 9>A2 Time to ELEMENT FALSE timeToTrig
Trigger ger IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 353 7>Event A3 STRUCTURE eventA3 IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 354 8>A3 Offset STRUCTURE a3-Threshold
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 355 9>CHOICE A3 STRUCTURE MeasTrigger
Offset Type QuantityOffse t IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 356 10>A3 ELEMENT FALSE rsrp IE in Threshold TS 38.331
RSRP Offset Sec 6

# 357 10>A3 ELEMENT FALSE rsrq IE in Threshold TS 38.331
RSRQ Offset Sec 6

# 358 10>A3 ELEMENT FALSE sinr IE in Threshold TS 38.331
SINR Offset Sec 6

# 359 9>A3 Report On ELEMENT FALSE reportOnLe
Leave ave IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 360 9>A3 Hysteresis ELEMENT FALSE hysteresis
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 361 9>A3 Time to ELEMENT FALSE timeToTrig
Trigger ger IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 362 9>Use White Cell ELEMENT FALSE useWhiteC
List ellList IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 363 7>Event A4 STRUCTURE eventA4 IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 364 8>A4 Threshold STRUCTURE A4-Threshold
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 365 9>CHOICE A4 STRUCTURE MeasTrigger
Threshold Type Quantity IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 366 10>A4 ELEMENT FALSE rsrp IE in RSRP-Range
Threshold TS 38.331 IE RSRP Sec 6

# 367 10>A4 ELEMENT FALSE rsrq IE in RSRQ-Range
Threshold TS 38.331 IE RSRQ Sec 6

# 368 10>A4 ELEMENT FALSE sinr IE in SINR-Range
Threshold TS 38.331 IE SINR Sec 6

# 369 9>A4 Report On ELEMENT FALSE reportOnLe
Leave ave IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 370 9>A4 Hysteresis ELEMENT FALSE hysteresis
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 371 9>A4 Time to ELEMENT FALSE timeToTrig
Trigger ger IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 372 9>Use White Cell ELEMENT FALSE useWhiteC
List ellList IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 375 7>Event A5 STRUCTURE eventA5 IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 376 8>A5 Threshold 1 STRUCTURE a5- Threshold1 IE
in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 377 9>CHOICE A5 STRUCTURE MeasTrigger
Threshold1 Type Quantity IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 378 10>A5 ELEMENT FALSE rsrp IE in RSRP-Range
Threshold1 TS 38.331 IE RSRP Sec 6

# 379 10>A5 ELEMENT FALSE rsrq IE in RSRQ-Range
Threshold1 1 TS 38.331 IE RSRQ Sec 6

# 380 10>A5 ELEMENT FALSE sinr IE in SINR-Range
Threshold1 TS 38.331 IE SINR Sec 6

# 381 9>CHOICE A5 STRUCTURE a5- Threshold2 Type Threshold2 IE
in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 382 10>A5 ELEMENT FALSE MeasTrigg
Threshold2 erQuantity RSRP IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 379 10>A5 ELEMENT FALSE rsrp IE in RSRP-Range
Threshold2 TS 38.331 IE RSRQ Sec 6

# 380 10>A5 ELEMENT FALSE rsrq IE in RSRQ-Range
Threshold2 TS 38.331 IE SINR Sec 6

# 381 9>A5 Report On ELEMENT FALSE reportOnLe
Leave ave IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 382 9>A5 Hysteresis ELEMENT FALSE hysteresis
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 383 9>A5 Time to ELEMENT FALSE timeToTrig
Trigger ger IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 384 9>Use White Cell ELEMENT FALSE useWhiteC
List ellList IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 391 7>Event A6 STRUCTURE eventA6 IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 392 8>A6 Threshold STRUCTURE A6-Threshold
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 393 9>CHOICE A6 STRUCTURE MeasTrigger
Threshold Type QuantityOffse t IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 394 10>A6 ELEMENT FALSE rsrp IE in Threshold TS 38.331
RSRP Offset Sec 6

# 395 10>A6 ELEMENT FALSE rsrq IE in Threshold TS 38.331
RSRQ Offset Sec 6

# 396 10>A6 ELEMENT FALSE sinr IE in Threshold TS 38.331
SINR Offset Sec 6

# 397 9>A6 Report On ELEMENT FALSE reportOnLe
Leave ave IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 398 9>A6 Hysteresis ELEMENT FALSE hysteresis
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 399 9>A6 Time to ELEMENT FALSE timeToTrig
Trigger ger IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 400 9>Use White Cell ELEMENT FALSE useWhiteC
List ellList IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 405 5>Report CGI STRUCTURE ReportCGI IE
in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 406 6>Cell to Report CGI ELEMENT TRUE physCellId
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 411 5>Report SFTD – NR STRUCTURE ReportSFTD- NR IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 412 6>Report SFTD – ELEMENT FALSE reportSFT
Measurement D-Meas IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 413 6>Report RSRP ELEMENT FALSE reportRSR

# P IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 414 6>Report SFTD Neigh ELEMENT FALSE reportSFT
Meas D- NeighMeas IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 415 6>DRX SFTD Neigh Meas ELEMENT FALSE drx-SFTD- NeighMeas
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 416 6>List of cells for which to LIST cellsForWhic
report SFTD hToReportSF TD IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 417 7>Cell Item for reporting STRUCTURE
SFTD

# 418 8>Physical Cell ELEMENT TRUE physCellId
Identity IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 421 3>Report Config Inter RAT STRUCTURE ReportConfigI
nterRAT IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 422 4>CHOICE Report Type STRUCTURE reportType IE
in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 423 5>Periodical Report Config STRUCTURE PeriodicalRep
Inter RAT ortConfigInter RAT IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 431 6>Periodical Inter-RAT ELEMENT FALSE reportInterv
Report Interval al IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 432 6>Periodical Inter-RAT ELEMENT FALSE reportAmo
Report Amount unt IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 435 6>Periodical Inter-RAT STRUCTURE reportQuantit
Report Quantity y IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 436 7>Inter-RAT RSRP ELEMENT FALSE rsrp IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 437 7>Inter-RAT RSRQ ELEMENT FALSE rsrq IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 438 7>Inter-RAT SINR ELEMENT FALSE sinr IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 439 6>Maximum number of cells ELEMENT FALSE maxReport
for reporting Cells IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 441 5>Event Trigger Config Inter STRUCTURE EventTrigger
RAT ConfigInterR AT IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 442 6>CHOICE Event ID STRUCTURE eventId IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 451 7>Event B1 STRUCTURE eventB1 IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 452 8>B1 Threshold STRUCTURE b1- EUTRA ThresholdEU
TRA IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 453 9>E-UTRA ELEMENT FALSE RSRP- RSRP RangeEUT
RA IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 454 9>E-UTRA ELEMENT FALSE RSRQ- RSRQ RangeEUT
RA IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 455 9>E-UTRA SINR ELEMENT FALSE SINR- RangeEUT
RA IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 456 8>Event B1 Report ELEMENT FALSE reportOnLe
On Leave ave IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 457 8>E-UTRA ELEMENT FALSE hystereisis
Hysteresis IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 458 8>E-UTRA Time To ELEMENT FALSE timeToTrig
Trigger ger IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 471 7>Event B2 STRUCTURE eventB2 IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 472 8>B2 Threshold1 NR STRUCTURE b2- Threshold1 IE
in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 475 9>B2 Threshold1 ELEMENT FALSE RSRP- NR RSRP Range IE
in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 476 9>B2 Threshold1 ELEMENT FALSE RSRQ- NR RSRQ Range IE
in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 477 9>B2 Threshold1 ELEMENT FALSE SINR- NR SINR Range IE
in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 481 8>B2 Threshold2 E- STRUCTURE b2- UTRA Threshold2E
UTRA IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 482 9>B2 Threshold2 ELEMENT FALSE RSRP- E-UTRA RSRP RangeEUT
RA IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 483 9>B2 Threshold2 ELEMENT FALSE RSRQ- E-UTRA RSRQ RangeEUT
RA IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 484 9>B2 Threshold2 ELEMENT FALSE SINR- E-UTRA SINR RangeEUT
RA IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 491 6>Inter-RAT Reference ELEMENT FALSE rsType IE
Signal Type in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 492 6>Inter-RAT Report Interval ELEMENT FALSE reportInterv
al IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 493 6>Inter-RAT Report Amount ELEMENT FALSE reportAmo
unt IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 501 6>Inter-RAT Report STRUCTURE reportQuantit
Quantity y IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 502 7>Inter-RAT Report ELEMENT FALSE rsrp IE in Quantity RSRP TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 503 7>Inter-RAT Report ELEMENT FALSE rsrq IE in Quantity RSRQ TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 504 7>Inter-RAT Report ELEMENT FALSE sinr IE in Quantity SINR TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 510 6>Maximum number of cells ELEMENT FALSE maxReport
to be reported Cells IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 519 CHOICE NR SpCell RSRP Measurement STRUCTURE s- Controlling MeasureConfi
g IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 520 1>SSB RSRP ELEMENT FALSE ssb-RSRP
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 521 1>CSI RSRP ELEMENT FALSE csi-RSRP
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 525 Quantity Config STRUCTURE QuantityConfi
g IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 526 1>Quantity Config NR List LIST quantityConfi
gNR-List IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 527 2>Quantity Config NR STRUCTURE quantityConfi
gNR IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 528 3>Quantity Config NR Cell STRUCTURE quantityConfi
gCell IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 529 4>SSB Filter Config STRUCTURE ssb- FilterConfig
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 530 5>SSB Filter Coefficient RSRP ELEMENT FALSE filterCoeffic
ientRSRP IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 531 5>SSB Filter Coefficient RSRQ ELEMENT FALSE filterCoeffic
ientRSRQ IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 532 5>SSB Filter Coefficient RS- ELEMENT FALSE filterCoeffic
SINR ientSINR IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 533 4>CSI RS Filter Config STRUCTURE csi-RS- FilterConfig
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 534 5>CSI RS Filter Coefficient ELEMENT FALSE filterCoeffic
RSRP ientRSRP IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 535 5>CSI RS Filter Coefficient ELEMENT FALSE filterCoeffic
RSRQ ientRSRQ IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 536 5>CSI RS Filter Coefficient RS- ELEMENT FALSE filterCoeffic
SINR ientSINR IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 541 1>Quantity Config E-UTRA STRUCTURE quantityConfi
gEUTRA IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 542 2>E-UTRA Filter Coefficient RSRP ELEMENT FALSE filterCoeffic
ientRSRP IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 543 2>E-UTRA Filter Coefficient RSRQ ELEMENT FALSE filterCoeffic
ientRSRQ IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 544 2>E-UTRA Filter Coefficient RS-SINR ELEMENT FALSE filterCoeffic
ientSINR IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 551 Measurement Gap Config STRUCTURE MeasGapCon
fig IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 552 1>Setup or Release Gap FR2 ELEMENT FALSE ENUMERA SetupReleas
TED e IE in TS (setup, 38.331 Sec 6 release,…)

# 553 1>Gap FR2 to Setup STRUCTURE gapFR2 IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 554 2>FR2 Gap Offset ELEMENT FALSE gapOffset
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 555 2>FR2 Measurement Gap Length ELEMENT FALSE mgl IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 556 2>FR2 Measurement Gap Repetition ELEMENT FALSE mgrp IE in Period TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 557 2>FR2 Measurement Gap Timing Analysis ELEMENT FALSE mgta IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 558 2>FR2 Reference Serving Cell Indicator ELEMENT TRUE refServCell
Indicator IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 560 1>Setup or Release Gap FR1 ELEMENT FALSE ENUMERA SetupReleas
TED e IE in TS (setup, 38.331 Sec 6 release,…)

# 561 1>Gap FR1 to Setup STRUCTURE gapFR1 IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 562 2>FR1 Gap Offset ELEMENT FALSE gapOffset
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 563 2>FR1 Measurement Gap Length ELEMENT FALSE mgl IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 564 2>FR1 Measurement Gap Repetition ELEMENT FALSE mgrp IE in Period TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 565 2>FR1 Measurement Gap Timing Analysis ELEMENT FALSE mgta IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 566 2>FR1 Reference Serving Cell Indicator ELEMENT TRUE refServCell
Indicator IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 570 1>Setup or Release Gap UE ELEMENT FALSE ENUMERA SetupReleas
TED e IE in TS (setup, 38.331 Sec 6 release,…)

# 571 1>Gap UE to Setup STRUCTURE gapUE IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 572 2>UE Gap Offset ELEMENT FALSE gapOffset
IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 573 2>UE Measurement Gap Length ELEMENT FALSE mgl IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 574 2>UE Measurement Gap Reptition Period ELEMENT FALSE mgrp IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 575 2>UE Measurement Gap Timing Analysis ELEMENT FALSE mgta IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 576 2>UE Reference Serving Cell Indicator ELEMENT TRUE refServCell
Indicator IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 581 Measurement Gap Sharing Config STRUCTURE MeasGapSha
ringConfig IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 582 1>Setup or Release Gap Sharing FR2 ELEMENT FALSE ENUMERA SetupReleas
TED(setup, e IE in TS release,…) 38.331 Sec 6

# 583 1>Gap Sharing FR2 for setup ELEMENT FALSE gapFR2 IE
in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 584 1>Setup or Release Gap Sharing FR1 ELEMENT FALSE ENUMERA SetupReleas
TED e IE in TS (setup,rele 38.331 Sec 6 ase,…)

# 585 1>Gap Sharing FR1 for setup ELEMENT FALSE gapFR1 IE
in TS

## 38.331 Sec

# 586 1>Setup or Release Gap Sharing UE ELEMENT FALSE ENUMERA SetupReleas
TED e IE in TS (setup,rele 38.331 Sec 6 ase,…)

# 587 1>Gap Sharing UE ELEMENT FALSE gapUE IE
in TS

## 38.331 Sec

#### 8.4.10.3 Delete MR Configuration
Upon receiving the RIC Control Request message with the Measurement Report Configuration Control Service Style and the Modify MR Configuration control action, the E2 node shall invoke RRC procedures related to deletion of MR Configuration and include the IEs corresponding to one or more of parameters described below in the related interface or RRC messages. In the case of UE group-based control action, the above RRC procedure(s) is invoked individually for each individual UE within the group. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key RAN Semantics Parameter Parameter Flag Parameter Description ID Value Type Definition

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 3 2>Measurement Object ID ELEMENT TRUE MeasObjec
tID IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec
List of Report Config Objects to Remove LIST ReportConfigTo RemoveList IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 5 1>Report Config Object to Remove Item STRUCTU ReportConfigTo
RE Remove IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 6 2>Report Config Object ID ELEMENT TRUE ReportConf
igID IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 7 List of Measurement IDs to Remove LIST measIdToRemov
eList IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 8 1>Measurement ID Item to Remove STRUCTU
RE

# 9 2>Measurement ID ELEMENT TRUE MeasID IE
in TS

## 38.331 Sec

#### 8.4.10.4 Control Outcome parameters
In the case of a UE-specific control action, upon processing the above RRC procedure (RRCReconfiguration message) with the control action parameters sent by the RIC, the E2 node shall report the call processing outcome to the RIC as a response to the control action based on the following parameters. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key RAN Semantics Parameter Parameter Flag Parameter Description ID Value Type Definition

## 38.331 Sec 6

## 38.331 Sec 6
>>Measurement Object sequence ID ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER This is the ID (1..maxMeas used by the Object,…) RIC for the measurement object it seeks to add via the control service style >>Measurement Object ID ELEMENT TRUE MeasObjectI This is the ID

## 38.331 Sec 6 E2 node for the
measurement object for the UE via RRCReconfig uration message List of Measurement Objects failed to be LIST 0..1 MeasObjectT added oAddModList IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6
>Measurement Object failed to be added STRUCTURE 1..<maxMeas MeasObjectId Item Objects> IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6
>>Measurement Object sequence ID ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER This is the ID (1..maxMeas used by the Object,…) RIC for the measurement object it seeks to add via the control service style

# 15 >>Addition failure cause ELEMENT FALSE PrintableStrin Failure cause
g(SIZE(1.. string 150, ...))

# 21 List of Measurement Objects successfully LIST 0..1 MeasObjectT
modified oAddModList IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 22 >Measurement Object successfully modified STRUCTURE 1..<maxMeas MeasObjectId
Item Objects> IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6
>>Measurement Object ID ELEMENT TRUE MeasObjectI This is the ID

## 38.331 Sec 6 E2 node for the
measurement object for the UE via RRCReconfig uration message List of Measurement Objects failed to be LIST 0..1 MeasObjectT modified oAddModList IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6
>Measurement Object failed to be modified STRUCTURE 1..<maxMeas MeasObjectId Item Objects> IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6
>>Measurement Object ID ELEMENT TRUE MeasObjectI This is the ID

## 38.331 Sec 6 E2 node for the
measurement object for the UE via RRCReconfig uration message

# 35 >>Modification Failure Cause ELEMENT FALSE PrintableStrin Failure cause
g(SIZE(1.. string 150, ...))

# 41 List of Measurement Objects successfully LIST 0..1 MeasObjectT
deleted oRemoveList IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 42 >Measurement Object successfully deleted STRUCTURE 1..<maxMeas MeasObjectId
Item Objects> IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6
>>Measurement Object ID ELEMENT TRUE MeasObjectI This is the ID

## 38.331 Sec 6 E2 node for the
measurement object for the UE via RRCReconfig uration message List of Measurement Objects failed to be LIST 0..1 MeasObjectT deleted oRemoveList IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6
>Measurement Object failed to be deleted STRUCTURE 1..<maxMeas MeasObjectId Item Objects> IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6
>>Measurement Object ID ELEMENT TRUE MeasObjectI This is the ID

## 38.331 Sec 6 E2 node for the
measurement object for the UE via RRCReconfig uration message

# 55 >>Delete Failure Cause ELEMENT FALSE PrintableStrin Failure cause
g(SIZE(1.. string 150, ...))

# 61 List of Report Config Objects successfully LIST 0..1 ReportConfig
added ToAddModLis t IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 62 >Report Config Object successfully added STRUCTURE 1..<maxRepo maxReportCo
Item rtConfigObjec nfigId IE in TS ts> 38.331 Sec 6

# 63 >>Report Config Object sequence ID ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER This is the ID
(1..maxRepor used by the tConfigObject RIC for the s,…) report config object it seeks to add via the control service style

# 64 >>Report Config Object ID ELEMENT TRUE ReportConfigI This is the ID

## 38.331 Sec 6 E2 node for the report
config object for the UE via RRCReconfig uration message

# 71 List of Report Config Objects failed to be LIST 0..1 ReportConfig
added ToAddModLis t IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 72 >Report Config Object failed to be added STRUCTURE 1..<maxRepo maxReportCo
Item rtConfigObjec nfigId IE in TS ts> 38.331 Sec 6

# 74 >>Report Config Object sequence ID ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER This is the ID
(1..maxRepor used by the tConfigObject RIC for the s,…) report config object it attempts to add via the control service style

# 75 >>Addition failure cause ELEMENT FALSE PrintableStrin Failure cause
g(SIZE(1.. string 150, ...))

# 81 List of Report Config Objects successfully LIST 0..1 ReportConfig
modified ToAddModLis t IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 82 >Report Config Object successfully modified STRUCTURE 1..<maxRepo maxReportCo
Item rtConfigObjec nfigId IE in TS ts> 38.331 Sec 6

# 84 >>Report Config Object ID ELEMENT TRUE ReportConfigI This is the ID

## 38.331 Sec 6 E2 node for the report
config object for the UE via RRCReconfig uration message

# 91 List of Report Config Objects failed to be LIST 0..1 ReportConfig
modified ToAddModLis t IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 92 >Report Config Object failed to be modified STRUCTURE 1..<maxRepo maxReportCo
Item rtConfigObjec nfigId IE in TS ts> 38.331 Sec 6

# 94 >>Report Config Object ID ELEMENT TRUE ReportConfigI This is the ID

## 38.331 Sec 6 E2 node for the report
config object for the UE via RRCReconfig uration message

# 95 >>Modification Failure Cause ELEMENT FALSE PrintableStrin Failure cause
g(SIZE(1.. string 150, ...))

# 101 List of Report Config Objects successfully LIST 0..1 ReportConfig
deleted ToRemoveLis t IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 102 >Report Config Object successfully deleted STRUCTURE 1..<maxRepo maxReportCo
Item rtConfigObjec nfigId IE in TS ts> 38.331 Sec 6

# 104 >>Report Config Object ID ELEMENT TRUE ReportConfigI This is the ID

## 38.331 Sec 6 E2 node for the report
config object for the UE via RRCReconfig uration message

# 111 List of Report Config Objects failed to be LIST 0..1 ReportConfig
deleted ToRemoveLis t IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 112 >Report Config Object failed to be deleted STRUCTURE 1..<maxRepo maxReportCo
Item rtConfigObjec nfigId IE in TS ts> 38.331 Sec 6

# 114 >>Report Config Object ID ELEMENT TRUE ReportConfigI This is the ID

## 38.331 Sec 6 E2 node for the report
config object for the UE via RRCReconfig uration message

# 115 >>Delete Failure Cause ELEMENT FALSE PrintableStrin Failure cause
g(SIZE(1.. string 150, ...))

# 116 List of Measurement IDs successfully added LIST 0..1 MeasIdToAdd
ModList IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 117 >Meaasurement ID successfully added Item STRUCTURE 1..<maxMeas maxNrofMeas
Id> Id IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 118 >>Measurement ID ELEMENT TRUE MeasId IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 119 >>Measurement Object ID ELEMENT TRUE MeasObjectI

# D IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 120 >>Report Config Object ID ELEMENT TRUE ReportConfigI

# D IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 125 List of Measurement IDs successfully LIST 0..1 measIdToRe
removed moveList IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 126 >Measurement ID successfully removed STRUCTURE 1..<maxMeas maxNrofMeas
Item ID> Id IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 127 >>Measurement ID ELEMENT TRUE MeasId IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 129 List of Measurement IDs failed to be LIST 0..1 measIdToRe
removed moveList IE in TS 38.331 Sec 6

# 130 >Measurement ID failed to be removed Item STRUCTURE 1..<maxMeas maxNrofMeas
ID> Id IE in TS

## 38.331 Sec 6

# 131 >>Measurement ID ELEMENT TRUE MeasId IE in TS 38.331
Sec 6

# 132 >>Removal failure Cause ELEMENT FALSE PrintableStrin Failure cause
g(SIZE(1.. string 150, ...))

# 135 Received Timestamp ELEMENT FALSE OCTET Time RIC
STRING Control (SIZE(8)) Request message received by RAN Function over E2 interface. Carries UTC time encoded as the 64-bit timestamp format as defined in Clause 6 of IETF RFC 5905 [30] containing both seconds and fraction parts. Range bound Explanation maxMeasObjects Maximum no. of measurement objects supported by the RAN function. The value is <64>. maxReportConfigObjects Maximum no. of report configuration objects supported by the RAN function. The value is <64>. maxMeasID Maximum no. of measurement IDs supported by the RAN function. The value is <64>

### 8.4.11 Beamforming Configuration Control

#### 8.4.11.1 Non-GoB BF Mode Configuration
RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key Flag RAN Parameter Semantics Parameter Parameter Definition Description ID Value Type MIMO Mode Index ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER (1..2, …) Value = 1 means the SU (single-user) MIMO mode. Value 2 means the MU (multi- user) MIMO mode. Non-GoB ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0.. 65535, ...) The index is used for Beamforming Mode Non- Grid of Beams Index (Non-GoB) beamforming optimization for 5G mMIMO deployments [32]. Each BF mode implies a vendor- specific proprietary Non-GoB BF algorithm that are not standardized [33], for which each E2 Node, who supports the Non-GoB beamforming optimization feature, provides the number of different Non-GoB BF mode(s) supported by its scheduler indexed from 1 to n. The AI/ML model for Non- GoB beamforming optimization is trained by data and measurements related to each BF mode and/or MIMO mode, for which the trained AI/ML model, based on collected data, configures the E2 Node with the best inferred Non-GoB BF mode index to be used for each UE, where such configuration could be done separately for the case of Single User- and/or Multi- user MIMO [32]. The Value = 0 means release of Non-GoB BF mode for the UE of subject. Upon receiving the RIC Control Request message, the E2 node shall invoke procedures related to configuring the Non-GoB MIMO beamforming mode index of the UE given by the value of the Non-GoB Beamforming Mode Index IE, possibly based on the MIMO mode chosen for the UE by the scheduler by the MIMO Mode Index IE. The recommended value of the Non- GoB beamforming mode index for the UE by the Near-RT RIC, along with the corresponding MIMO mode index given by the MIMO Mode Index IE if configured, is saved by the E2 node. If and when the MAC scheduler configures the UE and in the MIMO mode indicated by the MIMO Mode Index IE if configured, then the scheduler shall use the Non-GoB Beamforming Mode Index IE recommended by the Near-RT RIC (that is saved in the E2 node).

#### 8.4.11.2 GoB BF Configuration
RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key Flag RAN Parameter Semantics Parameter Parameter Definition Description ID Value Type

# 4 > i1 STRUCTURE TRUE PMI coefficients in TS
38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2. >> i11 ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS 38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2. >> i12 ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS 38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2. >> i13 ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS 38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2. >> i131 ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS 38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2. >> i132 ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS 38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2. >> i14 ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS 38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2. >> i141 ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS 38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2. >> i142 ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS 38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2. >> i143 ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS 38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2. >> i15 ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS 38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2. >> i161 ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS 38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2. >> i162 ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS 38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2. >> i171 ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS 38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2. >> i172 ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS 38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2. >> i173 ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS 38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2. >> i174 ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS 38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2. >> i181 ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS 38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2. >> i182 ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS 38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2. >> i183 ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS 38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2. >> i184 ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS 38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2.

# 25 > i2 STRUCTURE TRUE PMI coefficients in TS
38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2. >> i20 ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS 38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2. >> i21 ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS 38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2. >> i211 ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS 38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2. >> i212 ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS 38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2. >> i22 ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS 38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2. >> i221 ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS 38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2. >> i222 ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS 38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2. >> i231 ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS 38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2. >> i232 ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS 38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2. >> i233 ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS 38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2. >> i234 ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS 38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2. >> i241 ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS 38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2. >> i242 ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS 38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2. >> i243 ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS 38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2. >> i244 ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS 38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2. >> i251 ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS 38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2. >> i252 ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS 38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2. >> i253 ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS 38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2. >> i254 ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS 38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2. > Subband Index ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER (0,…,19) Subband index for PMI reporting in TS 38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.1.4. The value=0 means Subband PMI reporting is not supported for the UE of interest. P-2 Beam Index ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER (0,…,256) P-2 beam index in TR 38.912 [i.2] Clause 8.2.1.6.1. The AI/ML model for CSI-RS and DMRS optimization infers the best P-2 beam index to be used for each UE [32]. The value=0 means P-2-beam management is not supported for the UE of interest. Upon receiving the RIC Control Request message, the E2 node shall invoke procedures related to configuring the GoB MIMO beamforming configuration of the UE given by the value of the RI-LI-PMI config or the P-2 Beam Index IE. In order to generate the precoding matrix from the values in RI-LI-PMI config, the E2 node shall combine the values in RI, i1 and i2 with the Codebook configuration parameters (e,g,, Type I, Type II etc.) as described in TS 38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2. The recommended value of the GoB beamforming configuration for the UE by the Near-RT RIC is saved by the E2 node. When the MAC scheduler configures the UE, the scheduler shall use the RI-LI-PMI config or the P-2 Beam Index IE recommended by the Near-RT RIC (that is saved in the E2 node).

## 8.5 RAN parameters for POLICY services

### 8.5.1 Approach
The RAN parameters associated with each policy action being controlled by Near-RT RIC described in Clause 7.7 are listed. There are two types of E2 policies: i) Control action policy: In this type, the Near-RT RIC tells the E2 node on the specific per-UE control action that needs to be performed, upon meeting a given policy condition for a given UE or a group of UEs, for a given cell and/or for a given E2 node. This policy type is descriptive in nature. The control action is defined with respect to individual UEs and UE-specific bearers, flows, PDU sessions, etc. ii) Offset based policy: In this type, the Near-RT RIC offers a generic prescriptive guidance to the E2 node on how it shall deviate from default behavior via the application of offset parameters provided in the Policy Action IE. Different Policy Action IEs are associated with different Policy Condition ID IEs and Policy Condition IEs are described in terms of UE and E2 Node characteristics. As defined in Clause 6.6.3, offset parameters are to be applied to default parameters according to the following rules:
- INTEGER and REAL default parameters: Offset parameter have the same data type as default parameter and is
added to default parameter with positive offset parameter values increasing default value and negative offset parameter values decreasing default value. That is, policy modifies the target call process such that: Value to be applied = (Default Parameter) + (Offset Parameter)
- ENUMERATED parameters: Offset parameter are of data type INTEGER and are used to select a different item
in the ENUMERATED list, positive offset parameter values used to select items that are further on in the list, zero offset parameter values used to select the default value, negative offset parameter values used to select items that are earlier on in the list. When and if the offset parameter value results in the selection of an item in the ENUMERATED list that exceeds the ENUMERATED list length then the last item in the list is selected. When and if the offset parameter value results in the selection of an item in the ENUMERATED list that prior to the first item in the ENUMERATED list then the first item in the list is selected. That is, policy modifies the target call process such that: ENUMERATED List index = MIN [List length-1, MAX [0, (Default Parameter) + (Offset Parameter)] ] 8.5.1A Common RAN Parameters for POLICY services The common set of RAN Parameters that can be used across all POLICY service styles is given in the table below. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key RAN Parameter Semantics Description Paramet Parameter Flag Definition er ID Value Type

# 5001 Measurement Object ELEMENT FALSE ENUMERATED If the value is UE, then the (UE, E2 Node,…) rest of the ensuing
parameters related to PMs have UE-specific values for the UE ID. Else if the value is E2 Node, then the rest of the parameters shall have node- specific measurements 5002 gNB DU STRUCTURE Measurements >UE Throughput Refer to gNB DU Measurements structure in Clause 8.1.1.14 Measurements >Packet level measurements >Packet delay measurements 5011 gNB CU-UP STRUCTURE Measurements >PDCP data volume Refer to gNB CU-UP Measurements structure in Clause 8.1.1.13 measurement >Packet delay measurements 5021 gNB CU-CP STRUCTURE Measurements >Inter-gNB handovers Refer to gNB CU-CP Measurements structure in Clause 8.1.1.12 >Intra-gNB handovers >RRC connection related measurements >QoS flow-related measurements >DRB related measurements >PDU Session Management >Inter-system mobility measurements between 5GS and EPS In addition to using the above RAN Parameters, POLICY conditions may also use RAN parameters defined in Clause 8.1 for RIC Event Trigger Definition IE.

### 8.5.2 Radio Bearer Policy

#### 8.5.2.0 Common RAN Parameters for Radio Bearer Policy
The RAN Parameters pertaining to POLICY Conditions for the “Radio Bearer Control” policy service style used across all POLICY actions of the policy service style are listed in the below table. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key RAN Parameter Semantics Description Paramet Parameter Flag Definition er ID Value Type

# 501 DRB related Refer to gNB CU-CP Measurements structure in Clause 8.1.1.12 where
measurements these parameters are defined.

# 502 List of QoS levels

# 503 >QoS level item

# 504 >>CHOICE QoS
level

# 505 >>>5QI

# 506 >>>S-NSSAI

# 507 >>>>SST

# 508 >>>>SD

# 509 >>Number of DRBs successfully
setup per QoS level

# 510 Total number of DRBs ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0..64) Total number of DRBs across
successfully setup for all QoS levels for a UE. UE Maximum 64 DRBs can be setup for a UE. Refer to TS 38.473 [19] Clause 9.2.2.1

# 511 UE DL Aggregate ELEMENT FALSE UE Aggregate
Maximum Bit Rate Maximum Bit Rate Downlink IE in TS 36.423 [17] clause 9.2.12 512 gNB CU-UP capacity Refer to E2 Node structure in Clause 8.1.1.11 where these parameters are defined In addition to using the above RAN Parameters for POLICY conditions, this service style also uses RAN parameters defined in Clause 8.1. Accordingly, this service style supports Policy Conditions using the RAN parameters defined in Clauses 8.1, 8.5.1 and those covered in the above table.

#### 8.5.2.1 DRB QoS Configuration

##### 8.5.2.1.1 Control action
The RAN parameters associated with this policy type are listed in the table in Clause 8.4.2.1.

##### 8.5.2.1.2 Offset
Editor’s Note: FFS

#### 8.5.2.2 QoS flow mapping configuration

##### 8.5.2.2.1 Control action
The RAN parameters associated with this policy type are listed in the table in Clause 8.4.2.2.

##### 8.5.2.2.2 Offset
Editor’s Note: FFS

#### 8.5.2.3 Logical channel configuration

##### 8.5.2.3.1 Control action
The RAN parameters associated with this policy type are listed in the table in Clause 8.4.2.3.

##### 8.5.2.3.2 Offset
Editor’s Note: FFS

#### 8.5.2.4 Radio Bearer Admission Control

##### 8.5.2.4.1 Control action
The RAN parameters associated with this policy type are listed in the table in Clause 8.4.2.4.

##### 8.5.2.4.2 Offset

#### 8.5.2.5 DRB Termination Control

##### 8.5.2.5.1 Control action
The RAN parameters associated with this policy type are listed in the table in Clause 8.4.2.5.

##### 8.5.2.5.2 Offset
Editor’s Note: FFS

#### 8.5.2.6 DRB Split Ratio Control

##### 8.5.2.6.1 Control action
The RAN parameters associated with this policy type are listed in the table in Clause 8.4.2.6.

##### 8.5.2.6.2 Offset
RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key Flag RAN Parameter Semantics Description Parameter Parameter Definition ID Value Type

# 101 Uplink PDCP Data ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER UL Data Split Threshold IE in Split Threshold TS 37.483 [21] Clause
offset 9.3.1.43

# 102 Downlink PDCP ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Downlink PDCP Data Split IE
Data Split in 8.4.2.6

#### 8.5.2.7 PDCP Duplication Control

##### 8.5.2.7.1 Control action
The RAN parameters associated with this policy type are listed in the table in Clause 8.4.2.7.

##### 8.5.2.7.2 Offset
Editor’s Note: FFS

### 8.5.3 Radio Resource Allocation Policy

#### 8.5.3.0 Common RAN Parameters for Radio Resource Allocation Policy
The RAN Parameters pertaining to POLICY Conditions for the “Radio Resource Allocation Control” policy service style used across all POLICY actions of the policy service style are listed in the below table. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key RAN Parameter Semantics Description Parameter Parameter Flag Definition ID Value Type

# 501 SPS Config STRUCTURE SPS-Config IE in TS 38.331
[22]

# 502 >Number of HARQ ELEMENT FALSE nrofHARQ- Processes Processes IE in
TS 38.331 [22]

# 503 Grant Configuration STRUCTURE ConfiguredGrantConfig IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 504 >Number of HARQ ELEMENT FALSE nrofHARQ- Processes Processes IE in
TS 38.331 [22]

# 505 PDSCH Serving Cell STRUCTURE PDSCH-ServingCellConfig IE
Config Setup in TS 38.331 [22]

# 506 >Number of HARQ ELEMENT FALSE nrofHARQ- Processes ProcessesForPD
SCH IE in TS 38.331 [22] In addition to using the above RAN Parameters for Policy conditions, this service style also uses RAN parameters defined in Clause 8.1. Accordingly, this service style supports Policy Conditions using the RAN parameters defined in Clauses 8.1, 8.5.1 and those covered in the above table.

#### 8.5.3.1 DRX Parameter Configuration

##### 8.5.3.1.1 Control action
The RAN parameters associated with this policy type are listed in the table in Clause 8.4.3.1.

##### 8.5.3.1.2 Offset
Editor’s Note: FFS

#### 8.5.3.2 Scheduling Request Parameter Configuration

##### 8.5.3.2.1 Control action
The RAN parameters associated with this policy type are listed in the table in Clause 8.4.3.2.

##### 8.5.3.2.2 Offset
Editor’s Note: FFS

#### 8.5.3.3 Semi-Persistent Scheduling Parameter Configuration

##### 8.5.3.3.1 Control action
The RAN parameters associated with this policy type are listed in the table in Clause 8.4.3.3.

##### 8.5.3.3.2 Offset
Editor’s Note: FFS

#### 8.5.3.4 Configured Grant Configuration

##### 8.5.3.4.1 Control action
The RAN parameters associated with this policy type are listed in the table in Clause 8.4.3.4.

##### 8.5.3.4.2 Offset
Editor’s Note: FFS

#### 8.5.3.5 CQI table configuration

##### 8.5.3.5.1 Control action
The RAN parameters associated with this policy type are listed in the table in Clause 8.4.3.5.

##### 8.5.3.5.2 Offset
Editor’s Note: FFS

#### 8.5.3.6 Slice-level PRB quota

##### 8.5.3.6.1 Control action
The RAN parameters associated with this policy type are listed in the table in Clause 8.4.3.6.

##### 8.5.3.6.2 Offset
Editor’s Note: FFS

### 8.5.4 Connected Mode Mobility Policy

#### 8.5.4.0 Common RAN Parameters for Connected Mode Mobility Policy
The RAN Parameters pertaining to POLICY Conditions for the “Connected Mode Mobility Control” policy service style used across all POLICY actions of the policy service style are listed in the below table. RAN RAN Parameter Name RAN Parameter Key RAN Parameter Definition Parameter Value Type flag ID

# 501 List of Serving Cells LIST Refer to Handover Preparation structure in 8.1.2.3.1 where this parameter is defined.

# 502 >Serving Cell Item STRUCTURE Refer to Handover Preparation structure in 8.1.2.3.1 where this parameter is defined.

# 503 >>CHOICE Cell Type STRUCTURE Refer to Handover Preparation structure in 8.1.2.3.1 where this parameter is defined.

# 504 >>>NR Cell STRUCTURE Refer to Handover Preparation structure in 8.1.2.3.1 where this parameter is defined

# 505 >>>>NR CGI ELEMENT TRUE Refer to NR Cell structure in 8.1.1.1 where
this parameter is defined

# 506 >>>>NR PCI ELEMENT FALSE Refer to NR Cell structure in 8.1.1.1 where
this parameter is defined

# 507 >>>>PLMN Identity ELEMENT FALSE Refer to NR Cell structure in 8.1.1.1 where
this parameter is defined

# 508 >>>>Reported NR STRUCTURE Refer to Reported NR RRC Measurements
RRC in 8.1.1.1 where this parameter is defined Measurements

# 509 >>>>>Cell STRUCTURE Refer to Cell Results structure in 8.1.1.1
Results where this parameter is defined

# 510 >>>>>>SSB STRUCTURE Refer to SSB Results structure in 8.1.1.1
Results where this parameter is defined

# 511 >>>>>>CSI- STRUCTURE Refer to CSI-RS Results structure in 8.1.1.1
RS Results where this parameter is defined

# 512 >>>E-UTRA Cell STRUCTURE Refer to E-UTRA Cell structure in 8.1.1.2
where this parameter is defined

# 513 >>>>ECGI ELEMENT TRUE Refer to E-UTRA Cell structure in 8.1.1.2
where this parameter is defined

# 514 >>>>PCI ELEMENT FALSE Refer to E-UTRA Cell structure in 8.1.1.2
where this parameter is defined

# 515 >>>>PLMN Identity ELEMENT FALSE Refer to E-UTRA Cell structure in 8.1.1.2where this parameter is defined

# 516 >>>>Reported LTE STRUCTURE Refer to Reported LTE RRC Measurements
RRC in 8.1.1.2 where this parameter is defined Measurements

# 521 List of Neighbouring Cells LIST Refer to Handover Preparation structure in 8.1.2.3.1 where this parameter is defined.

# 522 >Neighbouring Cell Item STRUCTURE Refer to Handover Preparation structure in 8.1.2.3.1 where this parameter is defined.

# 523 >>CHOICE Cell Type STRUCTURE Refer to Handover Preparation structure in 8.1.2.3.1 where this parameter is defined.

# 524 >>>NR Cell STRUCTURE Refer to NR Cell structure in 8.1.1.12 where
this parameter is defined

# 525 >>>>NR CGI ELEMENT TRUE Refer to NR Cell structure in 8.1.1.12 where
this parameter is defined

# 526 >>>>NR PCI ELEMENT FALSE Refer to NR Cell structure in 8.1.1.12 where
this parameter is defined

# 527 >>>>PLMN Identity ELEMENT FALSE Refer to NR Cell structure in 8.1.1.12 where
this parameter is defined

# 528 >>>>Reported NR STRUCTURE Refer to Reported NR RRC Measurements
RRC in 8.1.1.1 where this parameter is defined Measurements

# 529 >>>>>Cell STRUCTURE Refer to Cell Results structure in 8.1.1.1
Results where this parameter is defined

# 530 >>>>>>SSB STRUCTURE Refer to SSB Results structure in 8.1.1.1
Results where this parameter is defined

# 531 >>>>>>CSI- STRUCTURE Refer to CSI-RS Results structure in 8.1.1.1
RS Results where this parameter is defined

# 532 >>>E-UTRA Cell STRUCTURE Refer to E-UTRA Cell structure in 8.1.1.2
where this parameter is defined

# 533 >>>>ECGI STRUCTURE Refer to E-UTRA Cell structure in 8.1.1.2
where this parameter is defined

# 534 >>>>PCI STRUCTURE Refer to E-UTRA Cell structure in 8.1.1.2
where this parameter is defined

# 535 >>>>PLMN Identity ELEMENT FALSE Refer to E-UTRA Cell structure in 8.1.1.11
where this parameter is defined

# 536 >>>>Reported LTE STRUCTURE Refer to Reported LTE RRC Measurements
RRC in 8.1.1.2 where this parameter is defined Measurements 541 gNB Handover measurements STRUCTURE

# 542 >Inter-gNB handover STRUCTURE Refer to Inter-gNB Handovers structure in measurements 8.1.1.12 where this parameter is defined

# 543 >Intra-gNB handover STRUCTURE Refer to Intra-gNB Handovers structure in measurements 8.1.1.12 where this parameter is defined

# 544 >Inter-system mobility STRUCTURE Refer to Inter-system mobility
measurements measurements between 5GS and EPS structure in 8.1.1.12 where this parameter is defined

# 545 NR Composite Available STRUCTURE Refer to Composite Available Capacity
Capacity Group Group in 8.1.1.1 where this parameter is defined

# 546 E-UTRA Composite Available STRUCTURE Refer to Composite Available Capacity
Capacity Group Group in 8.1.1.2 where this parameter is defined In addition to using the above RAN Parameters for Policy conditions, this service style also uses RAN parameters defined in Clause 8.1. Accordingly, this service style supports Policy Conditions using the RAN parameters defined in Clauses 8.1, 8.5.1 and those covered in the above table.

#### 8.5.4.1 Handover Control

##### 8.5.4.1.1 Control action
The RAN parameters associated with this policy type are listed in the table in Clause 8.4.4.1.

##### 8.5.4.1.2 Offset
RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key Flag RAN Semantics Description Parameter Parameter Parameter ID Value Type Definition

# 101 A1 Event Threshold STRUCTURE EventA1 IE in 8.1.1.10
offset

# 102 >RSRP Offset ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Offsets to be applied to default values, i.e. RSRP
threshold to be used is default RSRP+RSRP Offset

# 103 >RSRQ Offset ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Offsets to be applied to default values, i.e. RSRP
threshold to be used is default RSRQ+RSRQ Offset

# 104 >SINR Offset ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Offsets to be applied to default values, i.e. RSRP
threshold to be used is default SINR+SINR Offset

# 105 >Hysteresis ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Offsets to be applied to default values,

# 111 A2 Event Threshold STRUCTURE EventA2 IE in 8.1.1.10
offset

# 112 >RSRP Offset ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Offsets to be applied to default values,

# 113 >RSRQ Offset ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Offsets to be applied to default values,

# 114 >SINR Offset ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Offsets to be applied to default values,

# 115 >Hysteresis ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Offsets to be applied to default values,

# 121 A3 Event Threshold STRUCTURE EventA3 IE in 8.1.1.10
offset

# 122 >RSRP Offset ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Offsets to be applied to default values,

# 123 >RSRQ Offset ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Offsets to be applied to default values,

# 124 >SINR Offset ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Offsets to be applied to default values,

# 125 >Hysteresis ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Offsets to be applied to default values,

# 131 A4 Event Threshold STRUCTURE EventA4 IE in 8.1.1.10
offset

# 132 >RSRP Offset ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Offsets to be applied to default values,

# 133 >RSRQ Offset ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Offsets to be applied to default values,

# 134 >SINR Offset ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Offsets to be applied to default values,

# 135 >Hysteresis ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Offsets to be applied to default values,

# 140 A5 Event Threshold STRUCTURE EventA5 IE in 8.1.1.10
offset

# 141 >A5-Threshold1 STRUCTURE EventA5 IE in 8.1.1.10
offset

# 142 >>RSRP Offset ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Offsets to be applied to default values,

# 143 >>RSRQ Offset ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Offsets to be applied to default values,

# 144 >>SINR Offset ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Offsets to be applied to default values,

# 145 >>Hysteresis ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Offsets to be applied to default values,

# 146 >A5-Threshold2 STRUCTURE EventA5 IE in 8.1.1.10
offset

# 147 >>RSRP Offset ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Offsets to be applied to default values,

# 148 >>RSRQ Offset ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Offsets to be applied to default values,

# 149 >>SINR Offset ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Offsets to be applied to default values,

# 150 >>Hysteresis ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Offsets to be applied to Offset default values,

# 151 A6 Event Threshold STRUCTURE EventA6 IE in 8.1.1.10
Offset

# 152 >RSRP Offset ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Offsets to be applied to default values,

# 153 >RSRQ Offset ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Offsets to be applied to default values,

# 154 >SINR Offset ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Offsets to be applied to default values,

# 155 >Hysteresis Offset ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Offsets to be applied to default values,

# 161 B1 Event Threshold STRUCTURE EventB1 IE in 8.1.1.10
Offset

# 162 >RSRP Offset ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Offsets to be applied to default values,

# 163 >RSRQ Offset ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Offsets to be applied to default values,

# 164 >SINR Offset ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Offsets to be applied to default values,

# 165 >Hysteresis Offset ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Offsets to be applied to default values,

# 170 B2 Event Threshold STRUCTURE EventB2 IE in 8.1.1.10
offset

# 171 >B2-Threshold-NR STRUCTURE EventB2 IE in 8.1.1.10
offset

# 172 >>RSRP Offset ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Offsets to be applied to default values,

# 173 >>RSRQ Offset ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Offsets to be applied to default values,

# 174 >>SINR Offset ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Offsets to be applied to default values,

# 175 >>Hystersis Offset ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Offsets to be applied to default values,

# 176 >B2-Threshold- STRUCTURE EventB2 IE in 8.1.1.10
EUTRA offset

# 177 >>RSRP Offset ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Offsets to be applied to default values,

# 178 >>RSRQ Offset ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Offsets to be applied to default values,

# 179 >>SINR Offset ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Offsets to be applied to default values,

# 180 >>Hysteresis ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Offsets to be applied to Offset default values,

#### 8.5.4.2 Conditional Handover Control

##### 8.5.4.2.1 Control action
The RAN parameters associated with this policy type are listed in the table in Clause 8.4.4.2.

##### 8.5.4.2.2 Offset
The RAN parameters associated with this policy type are listed in the table in Clause 8.5.4.1.2.

#### 8.5.4.3 DAPS Handover Control

##### 8.5.4.3.1 Control action
The RAN parameters associated with this policy type are listed in the table in Clause 8.4.4.3.

##### 8.5.4.3.2 Offset
The RAN parameters associated with this policy type are listed in the table in Clause 8.5.4.1.2.

### 8.5.5 Radio Access Policy

#### 8.5.5.0 Common RAN Parameters for Radio Access Policy
The RAN Parameters pertaining to POLICY Conditions for the “Radio Access Control” policy service style used across all POLICY actions of the policy service style are listed in the below table. RAN RAN Parameter Name RAN Parameter Key Parameter description Parameter Value Type flag ID

# 501 E2 Node STRUCTURE Refer to E2 Node structure in 8.1.1.11

# 502 >CHOICE E2 Node Component STRUCTURE Refer to E2 Node structure in 8.1.1.11
Type where this parameter is defined

# 503 >>NG-RAN gNB DU STRUCTURE Refer to E2 Node structure in 8.1.1.11
where this parameter is defined

# 504 >>>gNB DU Measurements STRUCTURE Refer to E2 Node structure in 8.1.1.11
where this parameter is defined

# 505 >>>List of NR cells LIST Refer to gNB DU Measurements
structure in 8.1.1.14 where this parameter is defined

# 506 >>>>NR Cell Item STRUCTURE Refer to gNB DU Measurements
structure in 8.1.1.14 where this parameter is defined

# 507 >>>>>Radio STRUCTURE Refer to Radio Resource Utilization
Resource structure in 8.1.1.14 where this Utilization parameter is defined. This has load measurements in terms of PRB usage.

# 508 >>>>>Number of STRUCTURE Refer to Number of active UE
active UE measurements structure in 8.1.1.14 measurements where this parameter is defined. This has load measurements in terms of number of active UEs.

# 509 >>>>>Slice STRUCTURE Refer to Slice Available Capacity List in Available 8.1.1.1
Capacity List

# 511 >>NG-RAN gNB CU-CP STRUCTURE Refer to E2 Node structure in 8.1.1.11
where this parameter is defined

# 512 >>>RRC connection related STRUCTURE Refer to gNB CU-CP Measurements
measurements structure in 8.1.1.12 where this parameter is defined

# 521 >>NG-RAN gNB STRUCTURE Refer to E2 Node structure in 8.1.1.11
where this parameter is defined

# 522 >>>gNB DU Measurements STRUCTURE Refer to E2 Node structure in 8.1.1.11
where this parameter is defined

# 523 >>>List of NR cells LIST Refer to gNB DU Measurements
structure in 8.1.1.14 where this parameter is defined

# 524 >>>>NR Cell Item STRUCTURE Refer to gNB DU Measurements
structure in 8.1.1.14 where this parameter is defined

# 525 >>>>>Radio STRUCTURE Refer to Radio Resource Utilization
Resource structure in 8.1.1.14 where this Utilization parameter is defined. This has load measurements in terms of PRB usage.

# 526 >>>>>Number of STRUCTURE Refer to Number of active UE
active UE measurements structure in 8.1.1.14 measurements where this parameter is defined. This has load measurements in terms of number of active UEs.

# 527 >>>>>Slice STRUCTURE Refer to Slice Available Capacity List in Available 8.1.1.1
Capacity List

# 531 >>>gNB CU-CP STRUCTURE Refer to E2 Node structure in 8.1.1.11
Measurements where this parameter is defined

# 532 >>>>RRC connection STRUCTURE Refer to gNB CU-CP Measurements
related measurements structure in 8.1.1.12 where this parameter is defined In addition to using the above RAN Parameters for Policy conditions, this service style also uses RAN parameters defined in Clause 8.1. Accordingly, this service style supports Policy Conditions using the RAN parameters defined in Clauses 8.1, 8.5.1 and those covered in the above table.

#### 8.5.5.1 UE admission control request

##### 8.5.5.1.1 Control action
The RAN parameters associated with this policy type are listed in the table in Clause 8.4.5.1.

##### 8.5.5.1.2 Offset
Editor’s Note: FFS

#### 8.5.5.2 RACH backoff control request

##### 8.5.5.2.1 Control action
The RAN parameters associated with this policy type are listed in the table in Clause 8.4.5.2.

##### 8.5.5.2.2 Offset
Editor’s Note: FFS

#### 8.5.5.3 Access barring control request

##### 8.5.5.3.1 Control action
The RAN parameters associated with this policy type are listed in the table in Clause 8.4.5.3.

##### 8.5.5.3.2 Offset
Editor’s Note: FFS

#### 8.5.5.4 RRC Connection Release request

##### 8.5.5.4.1 Control action
The RAN parameters associated with this policy type are listed in the table in Clause 8.4.5.3.

##### 8.5.5.4.2 Offset
Editor’s Note: FFS

#### 8.5.5.5 RRC Connection Reject request

##### 8.5.5.5.1 Control action
The RAN parameters associated with this policy type are listed in the table in Clause 8.4.5.3.

##### 8.5.5.5.2 Offset
Editor’s Note: FFS

### 8.5.6 Dual Connectivity Policy

#### 8.5.6.0 Common RAN Parameters for Dual Connectivity Policy
The RAN Parameters pertaining to POLICY Conditions for the “Dual Connectivity Control” policy service style used across all POLICY actions of the policy service style are listed in the below table. RAN RAN Parameter Name RAN Parameter Key Parameter description Parameter Value Type flag ID

# 501 Target Secondary Node STRUCTURE Refer to E2 Node structure in 8.1.1.11

# 502 >CHOICE E2 Node Component STRUCTURE Refer to E2 Node structure in 8.1.1.11
Type where this parameter is defined

# 503 >>NG-RAN gNB DU STRUCTURE Refer to E2 Node structure in 8.1.1.11
where this parameter is defined

# 504 >>>gNB DU STRUCTURE Refer to E2 Node structure in 8.1.1.11
Measurements where this parameter is defined

# 505 >>>List of NR cells LIST Refer to gNB DU Measurements structure
in 8.1.1.14 where this parameter is defined

# 506 >>>>NR Cell Item STRUCTURE Refer to gNB DU Measurements structure
in 8.1.1.14 where this parameter is defined

# 507 >>>>>Radio STRUCTURE Refer to Radio Resource Utilization
Resource structure in 8.1.1.14 where this parameter Utilization is defined. This has load measurements in terms of PRB usage.

# 508 >>>>>Number STRUCTURE Refer to Number of active UE
of active UE measurements structure in 8.1.1.14 measurements where this parameter is defined. This has load measurements in terms of number of active UEs.

# 509 >>>>>Slice STRUCTURE Refer to Slice Available Capacity List in Available 8.1.1.1
Capacity List

# 510 >>>List of logical LIST
channels

# 511 >>>>Logical STRUCTURE
Channel Item

# 512 >>>>>Buffer ELEMENT FALSE Refer to L2 MAC State Variables
Occupancy structure in 8.1.1.4 where this parameter is defined.

# 511 >>NG-RAN gNB CU-CP STRUCTURE Refer to E2 Node structure in 8.1.1.11
where this parameter is defined

# 512 >>>RRC connection STRUCTURE Refer to gNB CU-CP Measurements
related measurements structure in 8.1.1.12 where this parameter is defined

# 521 >>NG-RAN gNB STRUCTURE Refer to E2 Node structure in 8.1.1.11
where this parameter is defined

# 522 >>>gNB DU STRUCTURE Refer to E2 Node structure in 8.1.1.11
Measurements where this parameter is defined

# 523 >>>List of NR cells LIST Refer to gNB DU Measurements structure
in 8.1.1.14 where this parameter is defined

# 524 >>>>NR Cell Item STRUCTURE Refer to gNB DU Measurements structure
in 8.1.1.14 where this parameter is defined

# 525 >>>>>Radio STRUCTURE Refer to Radio Resource Utilization
Resource structure in 8.1.1.14 where this parameter Utilization is defined. This has load measurements in terms of PRB usage.

# 526 >>>>>Number STRUCTURE Refer to Number of active UE
of active UE measurements structure in 8.1.1.14 measurements where this parameter is defined. This has load measurements in terms of number of active UEs.

# 527 >>>>>Slice STRUCTURE Refer to Slice Available Capacity List in Available 8.1.1.1
Capacity List

# 528 >>>List of logical LIST Buffer Occupancy (BO) in number of channels bytes as defined in TS 25.321 [27] clause
8.2.2(c).LCID indicates logical channel ID.

# 529 >>>>Logical STRUCTURE Buffer Ocupancy (BO) in number of bytes
Channel Item as defined in TS 25.321 [27] clause 8.2.2(c).LCID indicates logical channel ID.

# 530 >>>>>Buffer ELEMENT FALSE Refer to L2 MAC State Variables
Occupancy structure in 8.1.1.4 where this parameter is defined.

# 531 >>>gNB CU-CP STRUCTURE Refer to E2 Node structure in 8.1.1.11
Measurements where this parameter is defined

# 532 >>>>RRC connection STRUCTURE Refer to gNB CU-CP Measurements
related structure in 8.1.1.12 where this parameter measurements is defined In addition to using the above RAN Parameters for Policy conditions, this service style also uses RAN parameters defined in Clause 8.1. Accordingly, this service style supports Policy Conditions using the RAN parameters defined in Clauses 8.1, 8.5.1 and those covered in the above table.

#### 8.5.6.1 DC Secondary Node Addition Control

##### 8.5.6.1.1 Control action
The RAN parameters associated with this policy type are listed in the table in Clause 8.4.6.1.

##### 8.5.6.1.2 Offset
RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key Flag RAN Semantics Description Parameter Parameter Parameter ID Value Type Definition

# 161 B1 Event Threshold STRUCTURE EventB1 IE in 8.1.1.10
Offset

# 162 >RSRP Offset ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Offsets to be applied to default values,

# 163 >RSRQ Offset ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Offsets to be applied to default values,

# 164 >SINR Offset ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Offsets to be applied to default values,

# 165 >Hysteresis Offset ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Offsets to be applied to default values,

# 170 B2 Event Threshold STRUCTURE EventB2 IE in 8.1.1.10
offset

# 171 >B2-Threshold-NR STRUCTURE EventB2 IE in 8.1.1.10
offset

# 172 >>RSRP Offset ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Offsets to be applied to default values,

# 173 >>RSRQ Offset ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Offsets to be applied to default values,

# 174 >>SINR Offset ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Offsets to be applied to default values,

# 175 >>Hystersis Offset ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Offsets to be applied to default values,

# 176 >B2-Threshold- STRUCTURE EventB2 IE in 8.1.1.10
EUTRA offset

# 177 >>RSRP Offset ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Offsets to be applied to default values,

# 178 >>RSRQ Offset ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Offsets to be applied to default values,

# 179 >>SINR Offset ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Offsets to be applied to default values,

# 180 >>Hysteresis ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER Offsets to be applied to Offset default values,

#### 8.5.6.2 DC Secondary Node Modification Control

##### 8.5.6.2.1 Control action
The RAN parameters associated with this policy type are listed in the table in Clause 8.4.6.2.

##### 8.5.6.2.2 Offset
The RAN parameters associated with this policy type are listed in the table in Clause 8.5.4.1.2.

#### 8.5.6.3 PSCell Change cell for Secondary Cell Group

##### 8.5.6.3.1 Control action
The RAN parameters associated with this policy type are listed in the table in Clause 8.4.6.3.

##### 8.5.6.3.2 Offset
The RAN parameters associated with this policy type are listed in the table in Clause 8.5.4.1.2.

#### 8.5.6.4 DC Secondary Node Change Control

##### 8.5.6.4.1 Control action
The RAN parameters associated with this policy type are listed in the table in Clause 8.4.6.4.

##### 8.5.6.4.2 Offset
The RAN parameters associated with this policy type are listed in the table in Clause 8.5.4.1.2.

### 8.5.7 Carrier Aggregation Policy

#### 8.5.7.0 Common RAN Parameters for Carrier Aggregation Policy
The RAN Parameters pertaining to POLICY Conditions for the “Carrier Aggregation Control” policy service style used across all POLICY actions of the policy service style are listed in the below table. RAN RAN Parameter Name RAN Key Parameter description Parameter Parameter flag ID Value Type

# 501 List of secondary cells setup LIST Scell To Be Setup List IE in TS 38.473
[19] clause 9.2.2.1

# 502 >Secondary cell setup Item STRUCTURE Scell To Be Setup Item IEs IE in TS
38.473 [19] clause 9.2.2.1

# 503 >>CHOICE Secondary cell STRUCTURE

# 504 >>>NR SCell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.1

# 505 >>>>PM Measurements STRUCTURE Refer to PM Measurements structure in 8.1.1.1

# 506 >>>>>Radio STRUCTURE Refer to Radio Resource Utilization
Resource Status structure in 8.1.1.1 where this parameter is defined. This has load measurements in terms of PRB usage.

# 507 >>>>>Number of ELEMENT FALSE Refer to Number of active UE
active UEs in the cell measurements structure in 8.1.1.1 where this parameter is defined. This has load measurements in terms of number of active UEs.

# 508 >>>>>Composite STRUCTURE Refer to Composite Available Capacity
available capacity Group structure in 8.1.1.1 group

# 509 >>>>>Slice available STRUCTURE Refer to Slice Available Capacity List in capacity list 8.1.1.1

# 511 >>>E-UTRA SCell STRUCTURE 8.1.1.2

# 512 >>>>PM Measurements STRUCTURE Refer to PM Measurements structure in 8.1.1.2

# 513 >>>>>Radio STRUCTURE Refer to Radio Resource Utilization
Resource Status structure in 8.1.1.2 where this parameter is defined. This has load measurements in terms of PRB usage.

# 514 >>>>>Composite STRUCTURE Refer to Composite Available Capacity
Available capacity Group structure in 8.1.1.2 group

# 515 >>>>>Number of ELEMENT FALSE Refer to Number of active UE
active UEs in the cell measurements structure in 8.1.1.12 where this parameter is defined. This has load measurements in terms of number of active UEs.

# 516 List of logical channels LIST Buffer Occupancy (BO) in number of bytes as defined in TS 25.321 [27] clause
8.2.2(c).LCID indicates logical channel ID.

# 517 >Logical Channel Item STRUCTURE Buffer Occupancy (BO) in number of bytes as defined in TS 25.321 [27] clause
8.2.2(c).LCID indicates logical channel ID.

# 518 >>LCID ELEMENT TRUE logicalChannelIdentity IE in TS 38.331
[22] Sec 6

# 519 >>Buffer Occupancy ELEMENT FALSE Refer to L2 MAC State Variables
structure where this parameter is defined In addition to using the above RAN Parameters for Policy conditions, this service style also uses RAN parameters defined in Clause 8.1. Accordingly, this service style supports Policy Conditions using the RAN parameters defined in Clauses 8.1, 8.5.1 and those covered in the above table.

#### 8.5.7.1 Secondary cell Addition control

##### 8.5.7.1.1 Control action
The RAN parameters associated with this policy type are listed in the table in Clause 8.4.7.1.

##### 8.5.7.1.2 Offset
The RAN parameters associated with this policy type are listed in the table in Clause 8.5.4.1.2.

#### 8.5.7.2 Secondary cell Modification control

##### 8.5.7.2.1 Control action
The RAN parameters associated with this policy type are listed in the table in Clause 8.4.7.2.

##### 8.5.7.2.2 Offset
The RAN parameters associated with this policy type are listed in the table in Clause 8.5.4.1.2.

### 8.5.8 Idle Mode Mobility Policy

#### 8.5.8.0 Common RAN Parameters for Idle Mode Mobility Policy
The RAN Parameters pertaining to POLICY Conditions for the “Idle Mode Mobility Control” policy service style used across all POLICY actions of the policy service style are listed in the below table. RAN RAN Parameter Name RAN Key Parameter description Parameter Parameter flag ID Value Type In addition to using the above RAN Parameters for POLICY conditions, this service style also uses RAN parameters defined in Clause 8.1. Accordingly, this service style supports Policy Conditions using the RAN parameters defined in Clauses 8.1, 8.5.1 and those covered in the above table.

#### 8.5.8.1 Cell reselection priority control

##### 8.5.8.1.1 Control action
The RAN parameters associated with this policy type are listed in the table in Clause 8.4.8.1.

##### 8.5.8.1.2 Offset
The RAN parameters associated with this policy type are listed in the table in Clause 8.4.5.4. For the priority and sub priority parameters, values are used to set offsets with respect to the default behaviour, i.e., carrier frequency with fourth priority and an offset of +1 shall be considered as third priority RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key RAN Semantics Parameter Parameter Flag Parameter Description ID Value Type Definition

# 3 >>Frequency Priority Item E-UTRA STRUCTU FreqPriorityEUTRA
RE IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 4 >>>Carrier Frequency ELEMENT FALSE carrierFreq IE
in TS 38.331 [22]

# 5 >>>Cell Reselection Priority ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER cellReselectionPriori
offset ty IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 6 >>>Cell Reselection Sub Priority ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER cellReselectionSubP
offset riority IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 7 >Frequency Priority List NR LIST FreqPriorityListNR
IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 8 >>Frequency Priority Item NR STRUCTU FreqPriorityNR IE in RE TS 38.331 [22]

# 9 >>>Carrier Frequency ELEMENT FALSE carrierFreq IE
in TS 38.331 [22]

# 10 >>>Cell Reselection Priority ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER cellReselectionPriori
offset ty IE in TS 38.331 [22]

# 11 >>>Cell Reselection Sub Priority ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER cellReselectionSubP
ofset riority IE in TS 38.331 [22] >T-320 timer expiry offset ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER t320 IE in TS 38.331 [22]

### 8.5.9 Measurement Reporting Configuration Policy
The RAN Parameters pertaining to Policy Conditions for the “Measurement Report Configuration Control” policy service style are given below. In addition, this service style also uses RAN parameters defined in Clause 8.1. Thus, this service style currently supports Policy Conditions using the RAN parameters defined in Clauses 8.1 and 8.5.1 in addition to those defined below. RAN RAN Parameter Name RAN Key RAN Parameter Semantics Description Parameter Parameter flag Definition ID Value Type

# 300 List of Serving Beam LIST List of information about
Info source beams belonging to the E2 Node.

# 301 >Serving Beam Info STRUCTURE
Item

# 302 >>Beam ID ELEMENT FALSE Defined in [4]
clause 6.2.2.16

# 303 >>Serving Cell CGI ELEMENT FALSE OCTET STRING Defined in Clause 9.3.36.

# 304 >>List of LIST List of neighbouing cell IDs
Neighbouring Cells of this source beam belonging to the E2 Node.

# 305 >>>Neighbouring ELEMENT FALSE OCTET STRING Defined in Clause 9.3.36.
Cell CGI

#### 8.5.9.1 Add MR Configuration

##### 8.5.9.1.1 Control Action
The RAN parameters associated with this policy type are listed in the table in Clause 8.4.10.1.

##### 8.5.9.1.2 Offset
Editor’s Note: FFS

#### 8.5.9.2 Modify MR Configuration

##### 8.5.9.2.1 Control Action
The RAN parameters associated with this policy type are listed in the table in Clause 8.4.10.2.

##### 8.5.9.2.2 Offset
RAN parameters in clause 8.4.10.2, where appropriate, may be modified via “offsets”. The offsets are provided by Policy Actions. See clause 6.6.3 for the policy “offset” approach.

#### 8.5.9.3 Delete MR Configuration

##### 8.5.9.3.1 Control Action
The RAN parameters associated with this policy type are listed in the table in Clause 8.4.10.3.

##### 8.5.9.3.2 Offset
Editor’s Note: FFS

### 8.5.10 Beamforming Configuration Policy

#### 8.5.10.0 Common RAN Parameters for Beamforming Configuration Policy
The RAN Parameters pertaining to POLICY Conditions for the “Beamforming Configuration Control” policy service style used across all POLICY actions of the policy service style are listed in the below table. RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key Flag RAN Parameter Semantics Parameter Parameter Definition Description ID Value Type

# 501 MIMO Mode Index ELEMENT TRUE INTEGER (1..2, …) Value = 1 means the SU (single-user)
MIMO mode. Value 2 means the MU (multi- user) MIMO mode. In addition to using the above RAN Parameters for Policy conditions, this service style also uses RAN parameters defined in Clause 8.1. Accordingly, this service style supports Policy Conditions using the RAN parameters defined in Clauses 8.1, 8.5.1 and those covered in the above table.

#### 8.5.10.1 Non-GoB BF Mode Configuration

##### 8.5.10.1.1 Control Action
RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key Flag RAN Parameter Semantics Parameter Parameter Definition Description ID Value Type 502 Non-GoB ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0.. 65535, ...) The index is used for Beamforming Mode Non- Grid of Beams Index (Non-GoB) beamforming optimization for 5G mMIMO deployments [32]. Each BF mode implies a vendor- specific proprietary Non-GoB BF algorithm that are not standardized [33], for which each E2 Node, who supports the Non-GoB beamforming optimization feature, provides the number of different Non-GoB BF mode(s) supported by its scheduler indexed from 1 to n. The AI/ML model for Non- GoB beamforming optimization is trained by data and measurements related to each BF mode and/or MIMO mode, for which the trained AI/ML model, based on collected data, configures the E2 Node with the best inferred Non-GoB BF mode index to be used for each UE, where such configuration could be done separately for the case of Single User- and/or Multi- user MIMO [32]. The Value = 0 means release of Non-GoB BF mode for the UE of subject.

##### 8.5.10.1.2 Offset
This policy type does not support the offset approach.

#### 8.5.10.2 GoB BF Configuration

##### 8.5.10.2.1 Control Action
RAN RAN Parameter RAN Key Flag RAN Parameter Semantics Parameter Parameter Definition Description ID Value Type

# 503 RI-LI-PMI config STRUCTURE FALSE Precoding Matrix
Indicator (PMI), Rank Indicator (RI), Layer Indicator (LI) in TS 38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2. The AI/ML model for CSI-RS and DMRS optimization infers the best PMI, RI, LI to be used for each UE [32].

# 504 > RI ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0,…,8) RI in TS 38.214 [36]
Clause 5.2.2.2. The value=0 means RI- PMI reporting is not supported for the UE of interest.

# 505 > LI ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0,…,8) LI in TS 38.214 [36]
Clause 5.2.2.2. The value=0 means LI- reporting is not supported for the UE of interest.

# 506 > i1 STRUCTURE FALSE PMI coefficients in TS
38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2.

# 507 >> i11 ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS
38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2.

# 508 >> i12 ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS
38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2.

# 509 >> i13 ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS
38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2.

# 510 >> i131 ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS
38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2.

# 511 >> i132 ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS
38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2.

# 512 >> i14 ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS
38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2.

# 513 >> i141 ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS
38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2.

# 514 >> i142 ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS
38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2.

# 515 >> i143 ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS
38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2.

# 516 >> i15 ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS
38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2.

# 517 >> i161 ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS
38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2.

# 518 >> i162 ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS
38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2.

# 519 >> i171 ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS
38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2.

# 520 >> i172 ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS
38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2.

# 521 >> i173 ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS
38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2.

# 522 >> i174 ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS
38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2.

# 523 >> i181 ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS
38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2.

# 524 >> i182 ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS
38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2.

# 525 >> i183 ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS
38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2.

# 526 >> i184 ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS
38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2.

# 527 > i2 STRUCTURE FALSE PMI coefficients in TS
38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2.

# 528 >> i20 ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS
38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2.

# 529 >> i21 ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS
38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2.

# 530 >> i211 ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS
38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2.

# 531 >> i212 ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS
38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2.

# 532 >> i22 ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS
38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2.

# 533 >> i221 ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS
38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2.

# 534 >> i222 ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS
38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2.

# 535 >> i231 ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS
38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2.

# 536 >> i232 ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS
38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2.

# 537 >> i233 ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS
38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2.

# 538 >> i234 ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS
38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2.

# 539 >> i241 ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS
38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2.

# 540 >> i242 ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS
38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2.

# 541 >> i243 ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS
38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2.

# 542 >> i244 ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS
38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2.

# 543 >> i251 ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS
38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2.

# 544 >> i252 ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS
38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2.

# 545 >> i253 ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS
38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2.

# 546 >> i254 ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0,…,256) PMI coefficients in TS
38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.2.2.

# 547 > Subband Index ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0,…,19) Subband index for PMI reporting in TS
38.214 [36] Clause 5.2.1.4. The value=0 means Subband PMI reporting is not supported for the UE of interest.

# 548 P-2 Beam Index ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0...256) P-2 beam index in TR
38.912 [i.2] Clause 8.2.1.6.1. The AI/ML model for CSI-RS and DMRS optimization infers the best P-2 beam index to be used for each UE [32]. The value=0 means P-2-beam management is not supported for the UE of interest.

##### 8.5.10.2.2 Offset
This policy type does not support the offset approach.

## 8.6 RAN parameters for QUERY services

### 8.6.1 RAN Parameters for Query Service Style 1
RAN RAN RAN Key RAN Parameter Semantics Description Parameter Parameter Parameter Flag Definition ID Name Value Type Cell Context ELEMENT FALSE OCTET STRING Served Cell Information IE in TS Information 38.473 [19] clause 9.3.1.10. This shall be used to report Cell Context information. Neighbour STRUCTURE FALSE 9.3.38 This shall be used to report neighbour Relation Table Neighbour Relation relation information of the serving Information cells. Number of ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0.. 65535, This shall be used to report the supported Non- ...) number of Non- Grid of Beams (Non- GoB GoB) beamforming modes supported beamforming by the E2 Node for mMIMO Non-GoB modes beamforming optimization for 5G mMIMO deployments [32]. Each BF mode implies a vendor-specific proprietary Non-GoB BF algorithm that are not standardized [33], for which each E2 Node, who supports the Non-GoB beamforming optimization feature, provides the number of different Non-GoB BF mode(s) supported by its scheduler indexed from 1 to n. The AI/ML model for Non-GoB beamforming optimization is trained by data and measurements related to each BF mode and/or MIMO mode, for which the trained AI/ML model, based on collected data, configures the E2 Node with the best inferred Non-GoB BF mode index to be used for each UE, where such configuration could be done separately for the case of Single User- and/or Multi-user MIMO [32]. If Non-GoB beamforming optimization is not supported by a cell of interest, then the value "0" shall be replied. MIB ELEMENT FALSE OCTET STRING MIB IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6.2.2. This shall be used to report MIB of the serving cell Serving Cell STRUCTURE FALSE 9.3.60 This shall be used to report common Config parameters of the serving cell Common contained in ServingCellConfigCommon IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6.3.2.

# 6 O-DU STRUCTURE
Compression Support

# 7 >BFW STRUCTURE Identifies the O-DU supported
Compression compression methods from the list Support defined in O-RAN-WG4.CUS [34] Clause 7.4.7.1.1 >>no ELEMENT FALSE BOOLEAN If this parameter is set to True, all compression other parameters shall either not be included or be set to False and shall be ignored by the receiving end.

# 9 >>block ELEMENT FALSE BOOLEAN
floating point (BFP)

# 10 >>block scaling ELEMENT FALSE BOOLEAN

# 11 >>m-law ELEMENT FALSE BOOLEAN

# 12 >>beamspace ELEMENT FALSE BOOLEAN
compression Type I

# 13 >>beamspace ELEMENT FALSE BOOLEAN
compression Type II CSI- ELEMENT FALSE OCTET STRING CSI-ReportConfig IE in TS 38.331 ReportConfig [22] Clause 6.3.1. This shall be used to report the CSI report configurations which includes Codebook Configurations (e.g., Type I, Type II etc.) supported by the E2 Node [32]. Supported STRUCTURE FALSE Beam <IOC> in TS 28.541 [35] GoB- Clause 4.3.40. This shall be used to beamforming report the set of GoB beamforming configurations configurations (e.g., indexes, azimuth directions, elevation directions etc.) supported by the E2 Node [32]. > beamIndex ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0...256) Beam <IOC> Attribute Properties in TS 28.541 [35] Clause 4.4.1. > beamType ELEMENT FALSE ENUMERATED As per Beam <IOC> Attribute (‘SSB-BEAM’, ‘CSI- Properties in TS 28.541 [35] Clause BEAM’) 4.4.1, allowed value for this field is ‘SSB-BEAM’. The value ‘CSI-BEAM’ is Optional. > beam- ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (- Beam <IOC> Attribute Properties in Azimuth 1800...1800) TS 28.541 [35] Clause 4.4.1. > beamTilt ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (- Beam <IOC> Attribute Properties in 900...900) TS 28.541 [35] Clause 4.4.1. > beam- ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0...3599) Beam <IOC> Attribute Properties in HorizWidth TS 28.541 [35] Clause 4.4.1. > beam- ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (0...1800) Beam <IOC> Attribute Properties in VertWidth TS 28.541 [35] Clause 4.4.1. Cell Uplink ELEMENT FALSE INTEGER (-202..24) P0-NominalWithGrant IE in TS Transmit 38.331 [22] clause 6.3.2. This shall Power be used to report the initial uplink Configured transmit power broadcasted for the UEs under the cell.

### 8.6.2 RAN Parameters for Query Service Style 2
RAN RAN Parameter RAN Parameter Key Flag RAN Parameter Semantics Parameter Name Value Type Definition Description ID Cell Global ID ELEMENT FALSE 9.3.36 Used to report the Cell Global ID Serving Cell ID of the UE. Alpha set ELEMENT FALSE P0-PUSCH- This shall be used to Identifier AlphaSetID IE in TS report the index of a 38.331 [22] clause 6.3.2. p0-PUSCH-Set UE specific ELEMENT FALSE p0 IE in TS 38.331 [22] This shall be used to power clause 6.3.2. report the UE specific configuration of transmit power alpha ELEMENT FALSE alpha IE in TS 38.331 This shall be used to [22] clause 6.3.2. report alpha In addition to using the above RAN Parameters, this service style also uses RAN parameters defined in Clause 8.1.1.

# 9 Elements for E2SM Service Model

## 9.1 General

## 9.2 Message Functional Definition and Content

### 9.2.1 Messages for RIC Functional procedures

#### 9.2.1.1 RIC Event Trigger Definition IE
This information element is part of the RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST message sent by the Near-RT RIC to an E2 Node and is required for event triggers used to initiate REPORT, INSERT and POLICY actions. Direction: NEAR-RT RIC → E2 Node. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference CHOICE RIC Event Trigger Definition IE Format >E2SM-RC Event Trigger M 9.2.1.1.1 Used for Event Trigger Style 1 Definition Format 1 >E2SM-RC Event Trigger M 9.2.1.1.2 Used for Event Trigger Style 2 Definition Format 2 >E2SM-RC Event Trigger M 9.2.1.1.3 Used for Event Trigger Style 3 Definition Format 3 >E2SM-RC Event Trigger M 9.2.1.1.4 Used for Event Trigger Style 4 Definition Format 4 >E2SM-RC Event Trigger M VOID Format 5 has been deprecated Definition Format 5

##### 9.2.1.1.1 E2SM-RC Event Trigger Definition Format 1: Message Event
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference Sequence of Messages for 1..<maxnoof Event Trigger Messages> >Event Trigger Condition ID M 9.3.21 >CHOICE Message Type M >>Network Interface >>>NI Type M 9.3.32 3GPP Network Interface Type >>>NI Identifier O 9.3.33 “Any” Network Interface instance to be used if absent. >>>NI Message O 9.3.34 Network Interface Message ID. This can indicate whether NUA (Non-UE Associated) or UA (UE- Associated). >>RRC >>>RRC Message ID M 9.3.35 RRC Message ID >Message Direction O ENUMERATED Indicates message arrival or (incoming, departure for event triggering outgoing, …) (“Any” direction if not included). >Associated UE Info O 9.3.26 Indicates applicable UE(s) for event triggering associated to each message event (“Any” UE if not included). Shall not be included in case of NUA type NI message. >Associated UE Event O 9.3.28 Indicates specific UE event(s) defined in Clause 8.1.5 for event triggering associated to each message event. >Logical OR O 9.3.25 Global Associated UE Info O 9.3.26 Indicates applicable UE(s) for event triggering, applied to all the message events uniformly. This IE shall override any Associated UE Info IE included for some message events. Shall not be included in case a NUA type NI message event is configured. Range bound Explanation maxnoofMessages Maximum number of Messages in a given E2 node for which event trigger can be defined. The value is <65535>.

##### 9.2.1.1.2 E2SM-RC Event Trigger Definition Format 2: Call Process Breakpoint
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Call Process Type ID M 9.3.15 Call Breakpoint ID M 9.3.49 Associated E2 Node Info O 9.3.29 Used to set optional E2 Node related information for event triggering. RAN Parameters in Clause 8.1.2 shall only be used. Associated UE Info O 9.3.26 Indicates applicable UE(s) for event triggering (“Any” UE if not included).

##### 9.2.1.1.3 E2SM-RC Event Trigger Definition Format 3: E2 Node Information Change
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Sequence of E2 Node 1..<maxnoof Information Change E2InfoChang es> >Event Trigger Condition ID M 9.3.21 >E2 Node Information M INTEGER (1..512, …) Defined in 7.3.4. Change ID >Associated Cell Info O 9.3.27 "Any” cell if not included. >Logical OR O 9.3.25 Range bound Explanation maxnoofE2InfoChanges Maximum number of E2 Node information changes for which event trigger can be defined. The value is <65535>.

##### 9.2.1.1.4 E2SM-RC Event Trigger Definition Format 4: UE Information Change
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Sequence of UE Information 1..<maxnoof Change UEInfoChan ges> >Event Trigger Condition ID M 9.3.21 >CHOICE Trigger Type M >>RRC State >>>RRC State List 1..<maxnoof RRCstate> >>>>State Changed To M 9.3.37 >>>>Logical OR O 9.3.25 >>UE Identifier >>>UE Identifier Change M INTEGER (1..512, ...) Defined in 7.3.5. ID >>L2 State Used to set conditions for PDCP, RLC and MAC state variable reporting >>>Associated L2 M 9.3.29 RAN Parameters in Variables Clauses 8.1.1.4 and 8.1.1.8 shall only be used. >>UE Context Info >>>Associated UE M 9.3.29 RAN Parameters in Context Info Variables Clause 8.1.1.17 >>L2 MAC Scheduler related Change >>>CHOICE L2 MAC M Scheduler Change Type >>>>MIMO and Used only for POLICY Beamforming Service Style 9 Configuration >>>>>MIMO M ENUMERATED Used to set condition Transmission Mode (enabled, disabled, …) when the MAC scheduler State enables or disables the MIMO transmission mode for the associated UE(s). >Associated UE Info O 9.3.26 Indicates applicable UE(s) for event triggerin“ ("”ny" UE if not included). >Logical OR O 9.3.25 Range bound Explanation maxnoofUEInfoChanges Maximum number of UE information changes for which event trigger can be defined. The value is <65535>. maxnoofRRCstate Maximum number of RRC states for which event trigger can be defined. The value is <8>.

##### 9.2.1.1.5 VOID

#### 9.2.1.2 RIC ACTION DEFINITION IE
This information element is part of the RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST message sent by the Near-RT RIC to an E2 Node. In this service model, this information element provides additional information for the nominated RIC Action. Direction: NEAR-RT RIC → E2 Node. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics reference description RIC Style Type M 9.3.3 CHOICE RIC Action Definition IE Format >E2SM-RC Action Definition M 9.2.1.2.1 Used by REPORT Format 1 service >E2SM-RC Action Definition M 9.2.1.2.2 Used by POLICY Format 2 service when encoding a list of Policy Conditions >E2SM-RC Action Definition M 9.2.1.2.3 Used by INSERT Format 3 service except style 255 >E2SM-RC Action Definition M 9.2.1.2.4 Used only by Format 4 INSERT service style 255

##### 9.2.1.2.1 E2SM-RC Action Definition Format 1
The E2SM-RC Action Definition Format 1 IE supports a REPORT service and is encoded as a list of RAN parameters to be reported, each with a RAN Parameter ID and RAN Parameter Definition. RAN parameters for REPORT service are defined in Clause 8.2. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Parameters to be Reported List 1..<maxnoofPar ametersToRepo rt> >RAN Parameter ID M 9.3.8 Only the RAN Parameter ID values declared in RAN Function Definition may be included. >RAN Parameter Definition O 9.3.51 To define the parameter along with its constituent parameters, if any (for a structure), and itemized members, if any (for a list). If not included for the RAN Parameter ID of a STRUCTURE type or a LIST type, then all the constituent RAN parameters under this RAN Parameter ID are assumed to be supported. Only the RAN Parameter ID values declared in RAN Function Definition may be included. Range bound Explanation maxnoofParametersToReport Maximum no. of RAN parameters supported by E2SM-RC Action Definition Format 1 IE. The value is <65535>.

##### 9.2.1.2.2 E2SM-RC Action Definition Format 2
The E2SM-RC Action Definition Format 2 IE supports Policy services encoded as a list of Policy Conditions, each with a Policy Condition definition described using RAN Parameter Conditional Criteria Definition IE in terms of a list of RAN parameters with test conditions and a Policy Action IE command described in terms of a list of RAN parameters. The meaning of the RAN Parameter ID/Value pairs for each list is defined in Clause 8.5. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Sequence of Policy 1..<maxnoofPoli Conditions cyConditions> >Policy Action M 9.3.20 Defines policy to be applied for specific Policy Condition >Policy Condition Definition O 9.3.29 Defines conditional test. >Policy Condition ID O 9.3.58 For the case of Offset based policy, this identifier is used to determine the order in which Policy conditions are tested while searching for the first positive match Range bound Explanation maxnoofPolicyConditions Maximum no. of Policy Condition in E2SM-RC Action Definition Format 2 IE supported by RAN Function. Value is <65535>.

##### 9.2.1.2.3 E2SM-RC Action Definition Format 3
The E2SM-RC Action Definition Format 3 IE supports an INSERT service of the indicated RIC Style Type IE and is encoded by the Insert Indication ID and a list of RAN parameters. The meaning of the RAN Parameter ID(s) in the list is defined in Clause 8.3. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics reference description Insert Indication ID M 9.3.16 Refer to Clause 7.5 List of RAN parameters for Insert M 1..<maxnoofAsso Refer to Clause 8.3 Indication ciatedRANParam eters> >RAN Parameter ID M 9.3.8 Refer to Clause 8.3 Only the RAN Parameter ID values declared in RAN Function Definition may be included. >RAN Parameter Definition O 9.3.51 To define the parameter along with its constituent parameters, if any (for a structure), and itemized members, if any (for a list). If not included for the RAN Parameter ID of a STRUCTURE type or a LIST type, then all the constituent RAN parameters under this RAN Parameter ID are assumed to be supported. Only the RAN Parameter ID values declared in RAN Function Definition may be included. UE ID O 9.3.10 If included, indicates that the subscribed INSERT service, upon the associated event trigger occurs, shall be executed for this UE only. In case of UE-related event triggers, the subscribed INSERT service shall not be executed unless the triggered event is related to this UE. Range bound Explanation maxnoofAssociatedRANParameters Maximum no. of RAN parameters supported by E2SM-RC Action Definition Format 3 IE for INSERT Indication. The value is <65535>.

##### 9.2.1.2.4 E2SM-RC Action Definition Format 4
The E2SM-RC Action Definition Format 4 IE supports multiple Insert Indication actions of one or more requested INSERT services, where each Insert Indication action is encoded by Insert Indication ID and a list of RAN parameters. The meaning of the RAN Parameter ID/Value pairs for each list is defined in Clause 8.3. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics reference description Sequence of Insert Styles for 1..<maxnoofRIC Multiple Actions Styles> >Requested Insert Style M 9.3.3 >Sequence of Insert Indication 1..<maxnoofInser Action Definition tIndicationAction s> >>Insert Indication ID M 9.3.16 Refer to Clause 7.5 >>List of RAN parameters for 1..<maxnoofAsso Refer to Clause 8.3 Insert Indication ciatedRANParam eters> >>>RAN Parameter ID M 9.3.8 Refer to Clause 8.3 Only the RAN Parameter ID values declared in RAN Function Definition may be included. >>>RAN Parameter Definition O 9.3.51 To define the parameter along with its constituent parameters, if any (for a structure), and itemized members, if any (for a list). If not included for the RAN Parameter ID of a STRUCTURE type or a LIST type, then all the constituent RAN parameters under this RAN Parameter ID are assumed to be supported. Only the RAN Parameter ID values declared in RAN Function Definition may be included. UE ID O 9.3.10 If included, indicates that the subscribed INSERT service, upon the associated event trigger occurs, shall be executed for this UE only. In case of UE-related event triggers, the subscribed INSERT service shall not be executed unless the triggered event is related to this UE. Range bound Explanation maxnoofRICStyles Maximum no. of Insert Styles supported by E2SM-RC Action Definition Format 4 IE for INSERT Indication. The value is <63>. maxnoofInsertIndicationActions Maximum no. of Insert indication actions supported by RAN Function. The value is <63>. maxnoofAssociatedRANParameters Maximum no. of RAN parameters supported by E2SM-RC Action Definition Format 4 IE for INSERT Indication. The value is <65535>.

#### 9.2.1.3 RIC INDICATION HEADER IE
This information element is part of the RIC INDICATION message sent by the E2 Node to the Near-RT RIC and is required for REPORT action. Direction: E2 Node → NEAR-RT RIC. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference CHOICE Indication Header Format >E2SM-RC Indication Header M 9.2.1.3.1 Format 1 >E2SM-RC Indication Header M 9.2.1.3.2 Format 2 >E2SM-RC Indication Header M 9.2.1.3.3 Format 3

##### 9.2.1.3.1 E2SM-RC Indication Header Format 1
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Event Trigger Condition ID O 9.3.21 Event Trigger Condition ID

##### 9.2.1.3.2 E2SM-RC Indication Header Format 2
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics reference description UE ID M 9.3.10 RIC Insert Style Type M 9.3.3 Insert Indication ID M 9.3.16 Refer to Clause 7.5

##### 9.2.1.3.3 E2SM-RC Indication Header Format 3
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics reference description Event Trigger Condition ID O 9.3.21 UE ID O 9.3.10

#### 9.2.1.4 RIC INDICATION MESSAGE IE
This information element is part of the RIC INDICATION message sent by the E2 Node to the Near-RT RIC and is required for REPORT action. Direction: E2 Node → NEAR-RT RIC. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference CHOICE Indication Message M Format >E2SM-RC Indication Message 9.2.1.4.1 Format 1 >E2SM-RC Indication Message 9.2.1.4.2 Format 2 >E2SM-RC Indication Message 9.2.1.4.3 Format 3 >E2SM-RC Indication Message VOID Format 4 has been deprecated Format 4 >E2SM-RC Indication Message 9.2.1.4.5 Format 5 >E2SM-RC Indication Message 9.2.1.4.6 Format 6

##### 9.2.1.4.1 E2SM-RC Indication Message Format 1
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Sequence of RAN 1..<maxnoofAsso Parameters ciatedRANParam eters> >RAN Parameter ID M 9.3.8 >RAN Parameter Value M 9.3.11 Type Range bound Explanation maxnoofAssociatedRANParameters Maximum number of RAN Parameters supported by E2SM-RC Indication Message Format 1 IE. The value is <65535>.

##### 9.2.1.4.2 E2SM-RC Indication Message Format 2
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Sequence of UE Identifiers 1..<maxnoofUEI D> >UE ID M 9.3.10 >Sequence of 1..<maxnoofAss RAN Parameters ociatedRANPar ameters> >>RAN Parameter ID M 9.3.8 >>RAN Parameter Value M 9.3.11 Type Range bound Explanation maxnoofUEID Maximum number of UE Identifiers supported by E2SM-RC Indication Message Format 2 IE to be reported. The value is <65535>. maxnoofAssociatedRANParameters Maximum number of RAN Parameters supported by E2SM-RC Indication Message Format 2 IE to be reported. The value is <65535>.

##### 9.2.1.4.3 E2SM-RC Indication Message Format 3
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Sequence of Cell Information 1..<maxnoofCell ID> >Cell Global ID M 9.3.36 >Cell Context Information O OCTET STRING Served Cell Information IE in TS 38.473 [19] clause 9.3.1.10. This IE shall be reported if RAN Parameter ID is set to “1” as described in Clause 8.2.3. >Cell Deleted O BOOLEAN This IE shall be used to report deleted cells. The value shall be set to “True” for the deleted Cell Global ID. This IE shall be reported if RAN Parameter ID is set to “2” as described in Clause 8.2.3. >Neighbour Relation Table O 9.3.38 Provides information on neighbours of serving cell. This IE shall be reported if RAN Parameter ID is set to “3” as described in Clause 8.2.3. >MIB O OCTET STRING MIB IE in TS 38.331. This IE shall be reported if RAN Parameter ID is set to “4” as described in Clause 8.2.3. > Serving Cell Config Common O 9.3.60 Provides information on common parameters of the serving cell. This IE shall be reported if RAN Parameter ID is set to “5” as described in Clause 8.2.3. Range bound Explanation maxnoofCellID Maximum number of Cell Identifiers supported by E2SM-RC Indication Message Format 3 IE to be reported. The value is <65535>.

##### 9.2.1.4.4 VOID

##### 9.2.1.4.5 E2SM-RC Indication Message Format 5
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics reference description List of RAN parameters requested 0..<maxnoofAss ociatedRANPar ameters> >RAN Parameter ID M 9.3.8 Refer to table in Clause 8.3 >RAN Parameter Value Type M 9.3.11 Refer to table in Clause 8.3 Range bound Explanation maxnoofAssociatedRANParameters Maximum no. of RAN parameters supported by RAN Function for a specific Control action. The value is <65535>.

##### 9.2.1.4.6 E2SM-RC Indication Message Format 6
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics reference description Sequence of Insert Styles for Multiple 1..<maxnoofRIC Actions Styles> >Indicated Insert Style M 9.3.3 >Sequence of Insert Indication Actions 1..<maxnoofIns ertIndicationActi ons> >>Insert Indication ID M 9.3.16 Refer to Clause 7.5 >>List of RAN parameters requested 0..<maxnoofAss ociatedRANPar ameters> >>>RAN Parameter ID M 9.3.8 Refer to table in Clause 8.3 >>>RAN Parameter Value Type M 9.3.11 Refer to table in Clause 8.3 Range bound Explanation maxnoofRICStyles Maximum no. of Insert Styles supported for multiple actions. The value is <63>. maxnoofInsertIndicationActions Maximum no. of Insert indication actions supported by RAN Function. The value is <63>. maxnoofAssociatedRANParameters Maximum no. of RAN parameters supported by RAN Function for a specific Insert indication action. The value is <65535>.

#### 9.2.1.5 RIC CALL PROCESS ID IE
This information element is part of the RIC INDICATION message sent by the E2 Node to a Near-RT RIC node and is required for INSERT action. The same information element is used in RIC Control procedure Direction: E2 Node → Near-RT RIC (when carried in RIC INDICATION) and Near-RT RIC → E2 Node (when carried in RIC CONTROL REQUEST). IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics reference description CHOICE Call Process ID Format >E2SM-RC Call Process ID M 9.2.1.5.1 Format 1

##### 9.2.1.5.1 E2SM-RC Call Process ID Format 1
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description RIC Call Process ID M 9.3.18

#### 9.2.1.6 RIC CONTROL HEADER IE
This information element is part of the RIC CONTROL message sent by the Near-RT RIC to an E2 Node and is required for RIC Control Procedure. Direction: Near-RT RIC → E2 Node. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics reference description CHOICE Control Header Format M >E2SM-RC Control Header Format 1 9.2.1.6.1 >E2SM-RC Control Header Format 2 9.2.1.6.2 >E2SM-RC Control Header Format 3 9.2.1.6.3 >E2SM-RC Control Header Format 4 9.2.1.6.4

##### 9.2.1.6.1 E2SM-RC Control Header Format 1
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference UE ID M 9.3.10 RIC Style Type M 9.3.3 Control Action ID M 9.3.6 Refer to Clause 7.6 RIC Control decision O ENUMERATED Used only when a CONTROL action (accept, reject, …) is sent as a response to an Insert Indication

##### 9.2.1.6.2 E2SM-RC Control Header Format 2
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference UE ID O 9.3.10 RIC Control decision O ENUMERATED Used only when RIC Control (accept, reject, …) Request message is sent as a response to the INSERT indication message from E2 Node.

##### 9.2.1.6.3 E2SM-RC Control Header Format 3
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics reference description UE Group ID M 9.3.54 To uniquely identify a UE group UE Group Definition M 9.3.56 RAN parameters defined in Clause 8.1.3 shall be used to define the UE group. RIC Style Type M 9.3.3 Identifier of the RIC Control Service Style Control Action ID M 9.3.6 Identifier of the RIC Control Action

##### 9.2.1.6.4 E2SM-RC Control Header Format 4
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference Partial UE ID M 9.3.57 RIC Style Type M 9.3.3 Control Action ID M 9.3.6 Refer to Clause 7.6 RIC Control decision O ENUMERATED Used only when a CONTROL action (accept, reject, …) is sent as a response to an Insert Indication

#### 9.2.1.7 RIC CONTROL MESSAGE IE
This information element is part of the RIC CONTROL message sent by the Near-RT RIC to an E2 Node and is required for RIC Control Procedure. Direction: Near-RT RIC → E2 Node. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics reference description CHOICE Control Message Format M >E2SM-RC Control Message Format 1 9.2.1.7.1 >E2SM-RC Control Message Format 2 9.2.1.7.2 >E2SM-RC Control Message Format 3 9.2.1.7.3 >E2SM-RC Control Message Format 4 9.2.1.7.4 >E2SM-RC Control Message Format 5 9.2.1.7.5

##### 9.2.1.7.1 E2SM-RC Control Message Format 1
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics reference description List of RAN parameters 0..<maxnoofAssociate dRANParameters> >RAN Parameter ID M 9.3.8 Refer to table in Clause 8.4 >RAN Parameter Value Type M 9.3.11 Refer to table in Clause 8.4 Range bound Explanation maxnoofAssociatedRANParameters Maximum no. of RAN parameters supported by RAN Function for a specific Control action. The value is <65535>.

##### 9.2.1.7.2 E2SM-RC Control Message Format 2
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics reference description Sequence of Control Styles for 1..<maxnoofRICStyles Multiple Actions > >Indicated Control Style M 9.3.3 >Sequence of Control Actions 1..<maxnoofMulCtrlAct ions> >>Control Action ID M 9.3.6 Refer to Clause 7.6 >>Control Action Parameters O 9.2.1.7.1 E2SM-RC Control Message Format 1 Range bound Explanation maxnoofRICStyles Maximum no. of Control Styles supported by RAN Function. The value is <63>. maxnoofMulCtrlActions Maximum no. of Control actions supported by RAN Function. The value is <63>.

##### 9.2.1.7.3 E2SM-RC Control Message Format 3
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics reference description List of entity filters 0..<maxnoof List of entity filters AssociatedE for identifying ntityFilters> entities for RAN entity-specific UE >Entity Filter ID M 9.3.55 Used to uniquely identify an entity filter definition >Entity Filter Definition M 9.3.29 This IE is used to determine the entities of the UE group, based on the RAN parameters in Clause 8.4.2 and 8.1. >List of RAN control parameters for the 1..<maxnoof matching entities AssociatedR ANParamete rs> >>RAN Parameter ID M 9.3.8 Refer to table in Clause 8.3. This shall not include key flag parameter whose value type is “ELEMENT with Key Flag TRUE” >>RAN Parameter Value Type M 9.3.11 Refer to table in Clause 8.3. The value type shall not be “ELEMENT with Key Flag TRUE” List of RAN control parameters 0..<maxnoof List of RAN Entity- AssociatedR agnostic RAN ANParamete control parameters rs> for control action on the group of UEs >RAN Parameter ID M 9.3.8 Refer to table in Clause 8.3. This shall not include a key flag parameter, whose value type is “ELEMENT with Key Flag TRUE” >RAN Parameter Value Type M 9.3.11 Refer to table in Clause 8.3. The value type shall not be “ELEMENT with Key Flag TRUE” . Range bound Explanation maxnoofAssociatedEntityFilters Maximum no. of entity filter definitions for a UE group. The value is <255>. maxnoofAssociatedRANParameters Maximum no. of RAN parameters supported by RAN Function for a control action. The value is <65535>.

##### 9.2.1.7.4 E2SM-RC Control Message Format 4
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics reference description List of RAN parameters 0..<maxnoofAssociate dRANParameters> >RAN Parameter ID M 9.3.8 Refer to table in clause 8.4 for applicable RAN Parameters >RAN Parameter Definition O 9.3.51 Refer to clause 7.6.9 for usage of this IE. Range bound Explanation maxnoofAssociatedRANParameters Maximum no. of RAN parameters supported by RAN Function for a specific Control action. The value is <65535>.

##### 9.2.1.7.5 E2SM-RC Control Message Format 5
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics reference description null M NULL Contains no information

#### 9.2.1.8 RIC CONTROL OUTCOME IE
This information element is part of the RIC CONTROL ACKOWLEDGEMENT and RIC CONTROL FAILURE messages and is sent by the E2 Node to the Near-RT RIC and is required for RIC Control Procedure. Direction: E2 Node → Near-RT RIC. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics reference description CHOICE Control Outcome M Format >E2SM-RC Control Outcome 9.2.1.8.1 Format 1 >E2SM-RC Control Outcome 9.2.1.8.2 Format 2 >E2SM-RC Control Outcome 9.2.1.8.3 Format 3

##### 9.2.1.8.1 E2SM-RC Control Outcome Format 1
The E2SM-RC Control Outcome IE Format 1 supports a sequence of RAN Parameters sent as ID/Value pairs. The meaning of the ID/Value pairs is defined in Clause 7.6. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Sequence of RAN 0..<maxnoofRANOu Parameters tcomeParameters> >RAN Parameter ID M 9.3.8 >RAN Parameter Value M 9.3.14 Range bound Explanation maxnoofRANOutcomeParameters Maximum no. of RAN Parameters. Value is <255>

##### 9.2.1.8.2 E2SM-RC Control Outcome Format 2
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Sequence of Control Styles 1..<maxnoofRICStyl for Multiple Outcomes es> >Indicated Control Style M 9.3.3 >Sequence of Control 1..<maxnoofMulCtrl Actions Outcome Actions> >>Control Action ID M 9.3.6 >>Sequence of RAN 1..<maxnoofRANOu Parameters tcomeParameters> >>>RAN Parameter ID M 9.3.8 >>>RAN Parameter Value M 9.3.14 Range bound Explanation maxnoofRICStyles Maximum no. of Control Styles supported by RAN Function. The value is <63>. maxnoofMulCtrlActions Maximum no. of Control actions supported by RAN Function. The value is <63>. maxnoofRANOutcomeParameters Maximum no. of RAN Parameters. Value is <255>

##### 9.2.1.8.3 E2SM-RC Control Outcome Format 3
The E2SM-RC Control Outcome IE Format 3 supports a sequence of RAN Parameters sent as ID and RAN parameter value types, where each RAN parameter value type is based on the categorization of the parameters into ELEMENT with Key Value TRUE, ELEMENT with Key Value FALSE, STRUCTURE and LIST. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Sequence of RAN 0..<maxnoofRANOu Parameters tcomeParameters> >RAN Parameter ID M 9.3.8 >RAN Parameter Value M 9.3.11 Type Range bound Explanation maxnoofRANOutcomeParameters Maximum no. of RAN Parameters. Value is <255>

#### 9.2.1.9 RIC QUERY HEADER IE
This information element is part of the RIC QUERY REQUEST message sent by the Near-RT RIC to an E2 Node and is required for RIC QUERY Procedure. Direction: Near-RT RIC → E2 Node. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics reference description CHOICE Query Header Format M >E2SM-RC Query Header Format 1 9.2.1.9.1

##### 9.2.1.9.1 E2SM-RC Query Header Format 1
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference RIC Style Type M 9.3.3 Indicates Style Types in Clause 7.8.1 Associated E2 Node Info O 9.3.29 Used to set optional E2 Node related information. RAN Parameters in Clause 8.1.2 shall only be used. Associated UE Info O 9.3.52 Indicates applicable UE(s) ("Any" UE if not included).

#### 9.2.1.10 RIC QUERY DEFINITION IE
This information element is part of the RIC QUERY REQUEST message sent by the Near-RT RIC to an E2 Node and is required for RIC Query Procedure. Direction: Near-RT RIC → E2 Node. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics reference description CHOICE Query Definition Format M >E2SM-RC Query Definition Format 1 9.2.1.10.1

##### 9.2.1.10.1 E2SM-RC Query Definition Format 1
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics reference description List of RAN parameters 1..<maxnoofAssociate dRANParameters> >RAN Parameter ID M 9.3.8 Refer to table in Clause 8.6 >RAN Parameter Definition O 9.3.51 To define the parameter along with its constituent parameters, if any (for a structure), and itemized members, if any (for a list). If not included for the RAN Parameter ID of a STRUCTURE type or a LIST type, then all the constituent RAN parameters under this RAN Parameter ID are assumed to be supported. Only the RAN Parameter ID values declared in RAN Function Definition may be included. Range bound Explanation maxnoofAssociatedRANParameters Maximum no. of RAN parameters supported by RAN Function for Query Definition. The value is <65535>.

#### 9.2.1.11 RIC QUERY OUTCOME IE
This information element is part of the RIC QUERY RESPONSE message sent by the Near-RT RIC to an E2 Node and is required for RIC Query Procedure. Direction: E2 Node → Near-RT RIC IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics reference description CHOICE Query Outcome Format M >E2SM-RC Query Outcome Format 1 9.2.1.11.1 >E2SM-RC Query Outcome Format 2 9.2.1.11.2

##### 9.2.1.11.1 E2SM-RC Query Outcome Format 1
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics reference description Sequence of Cell Information 1..<maxnoofCellID> >Cell Global ID M 9.3.36 >List of RAN parameters 0..<maxnoofAssociate dRANParameters> >> RAN Parameter ID M 9.3.8 Refer to table in Clause 8.6.1 >> RAN Parameter Value Type O 9.3.11 Refer to table in Clause 8.6.1 >Neighbour Relation Table O 9.3.38 Provides information on neighbours of serving cell. This IE shall be reported if RAN Parameter ID is set to “2” as described in Clause 8.6.1. > Serving Cell Config Common O 9.3.60 Provides information on common parameters of the serving cell. This IE shall be reported if RAN Parameter ID is set to “5” as described in Clause 8.2.3. Range bound Explanation maxnoofAssociatedRANParameters Maximum no. of RAN parameters supported by RAN Function for Query Outcome. The value is <65535>. maxnoofCellID Maximum number of Cell Identifiers supported by Query Outcome Format 1 to be reported. The value is <65535>.

##### 9.2.1.11.2 E2SM-RC Query Outcome Format 2
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics reference description Sequence of UE Information 1..<maxnoofUEID> >UE ID M 9.3.10 >List of RAN parameters 0..<maxnoofAssociate dRANParameters> >> RAN Parameter ID M 9.3.8 Refer to table in Clause 8.6.2 >> RAN Parameter Value Type O 9.3.11 Refer to table in Clause 8.6.2 >UE Filter ID O 9.3.53 Range bound Explanation maxnoofAssociatedRANParameters Maximum no. of RAN parameters supported by RAN Function for Query Outcome. The value is <65535>. maxnoofUEID Maximum number of UE Identifiers supported by Query Outcome Format 2 to be reported. The value is <65535>.

#### 9.2.1.12 Service Layer Cause

##### 9.2.1.12.1 Service Layer Cause IE
The purpose of the Service Layer Cause IE is to indicate the reason for error handling for the RIC Functional procedures and selected global procedures (Error Indication, E2 Setup, RIC Service Update) IE/Group Name Presence Range IE Type and Reference Semantics Description Service Layer M Cause Group >RIC services >>RIC Request M ENUMERATED ( RIC Event Trigger Style Type not supported, RIC Event Trigger Format Type not supported, RAN Parameter ID not supported, Call Process Type ID not supported, Call Process Breakpoint ID not supported, RIC Report Style Type not supported, Supported RIC Event Trigger Style Type no supported, RIC Action Format Type not supported, RIC Indication Header Format Type not supported, RIC Indication Message Format Type not supported, RIC Insert Style Type not supported, Insert Indication ID not supported, RIC Call Process ID Format Type not supported, RIC Control Style Type not supported, Control Action ID not supported, RIC Control Header Format Type not supported, RIC Control Message Format Type not supported, RIC Control Outcome Format Type not supported, RIC Policy Style Type not supported, Policy Action ID not supported, RIC Query Style Type not supported, RIC Query Header Format Type not supported, RIC Query Definition Format Type not supported, RIC Query Outcome Format Type not supported, … ) >Protocol >>Protocol M ENUMERATED Cause (Transfer Syntax Error, Abstract Syntax Error (Reject), Abstract Syntax Error (Ignore and Notify), Message not Compatible with Receiver State, Semantic Error, Abstract Syntax Error (Falsely Constructed Message), Unspecified, ...) The meaning of the different cause values is described in the following table. In general, "not supported" cause values indicate that the related capability is missing. On the other hand, "not available" cause values indicate that the related capability is present, but insufficient resources are available to perform the requested action. RIC Request cause Meaning RIC Event Trigger Style Type not supported Event Triggering style is not supported and was not declared in RAN Function Definition RIC Event Trigger Format Type not supported Event Format Type for requested style type is not supported and was not declared in RAN Function Definition RAN Parameter ID not supported RAN Parameter ID is not supported and was not declared in RAN Function Definition for use with the requested Event Trigger or RIC Service Call Process Type ID not supported Call Process Type ID is not supported and was not declared in RAN Function Definition Call Process Breakpoint ID not supported Call Process Breakpoint ID for requested Call Process Type is not supported and was not declared in RAN Function Definition RIC Report Style Type not supported RIC Report Style Type is not supported and was not declared in RAN Function Definition Supported RIC Event Trigger Style Type not Supported RIC Event Trigger Style Type for requested service and style supported type is not supported and was not declared in RAN Function Definition RIC Action Format Type not supported RIC Action Format Type for requested service and style type is not supported and was not declared in RAN Function Definition RIC Indication Header Format Type not RIC Indication Header type for requested service and style type is not supported supported and was not declared in RAN Function Definition RIC Indication Message Format Type not RIC Indication Message Format Type for requested service and style type supported is not supported and was not declared in RAN Function Definition RIC Insert Style Type not supported RIC Insert Style Type is not supported and was not declared in RAN Function Definition Insert Indication ID not supported Insert Indication ID for the requested style type is not supported and was not declared in RAN Function Definition RIC Call Process ID Format Type not RIC Call Process ID Format Type for requested style type is not supported supported and was not declared in RAN Function Definition RIC Control Style Type not supported RIC Control Style Type is not supported and was not declared in RAN Function Definition Control Action ID not supported Control Action ID for the requested style type is not supported and was not declared in RAN Function Definition RIC Control Header Format Type not RIC Control Header Format Type for requested style type is not supported supported and was not declared in RAN Function Definition RIC Control Message Format Type not RIC Control Message Format Type is not supported and was not declared supported in RAN Function Definition RIC Control Outcome Format Type not RIC Control Outcome Format Type for requested style type is not supported supported and was not declared in RAN Function Definition RIC Policy Style Type not supported RIC Policy Style Type is not supported and was not declared in RAN Function Definition Policy Action ID not supported Policy Action ID for requested style type is not supported and was not declared in RAN Function Definition RIC Query Style Type not supported RIC Query Style Type is not supported and was not declared in RAN Function Definition RIC Query Header Format Type not supported RIC Query Header type for requested style type is not supported and was not declared in RAN Function Definition RIC Query Definition Format Type not RIC Query Definition type for requested style type is not supported and was supported not declared in RAN Function Definition RIC Query Outcome Format Type not RIC Query Outcome type for requested style type is not supported and was supported not declared in RAN Function Definition Protocol cause Meaning Transfer Syntax Error The received message included a transfer syntax error. Abstract Syntax Error (Reject) The received message included an abstract syntax error and the concerning criticality indicated "reject". Abstract Syntax Error (Ignore And The received message included an abstract syntax error and the concerning criticality Notify) indicated "ignore and notify". Message Not Compatible With The received message was not compatible with the receiver state. Receiver State Semantic Error The received message included a semantic error. Abstract Syntax Error (Falsely The received message contained IEs or IE groups in wrong order or with too many Constructed Message) occurrences. Unspecified Sent when none of the above cause values applies but still the cause is Protocol related.

### 9.2.2 Messages for RIC Global Procedures

#### 9.2.2.1 RAN Function Definition IE
This information element is part of the E2 SETUP REQUEST, and RIC SERVICE UPDATE message sent by the E2 Node to the Near-RT RIC and is used to provide all required information for the Near-RT RIC to determine how a given E2 Node has been configured to support a given RAN Function specific E2SM. Direction: E2 Node → NEAR-RT RIC. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference RAN Function Name M 9.3.2 RAN Function Definition for EVENT O 9.2.2.2 TRIGGER RAN Function Definition for REPORT O 9.2.2.3 RAN Function Definition for INSERT O 9.2.2.4 RAN Function Definition for CONTROL O 9.2.2.5 RAN Function Definition for POLICY O 9.2.2.6 RAN Function Definition for QUERY O 9.2.2.7

#### 9.2.2.2 RAN Function Definition for EVENT TRIGGER
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference Sequence of EVENT TRIGGER styles 1.. <maxnoo fRICStyle s> >RIC Event Trigger Style Type M 9.3.3 >RIC Event Trigger Style Name M 9.3.4 >RIC Event Trigger Format Type M 9.3.5 Sequence of RAN Parameters for L2 0.. RAN Parameters defined in Variables <maxnoo Clauses 8.1.1.4 and 8.1.1.8. fAssociat Only included if L2 variables edRANP for Event Trigger Style 4 is arameter supported. s> >RAN Parameter ID M 9.3.8 >RAN Parameter Name M 9.3.9 >RAN Parameter Definition O 9.3.51 To define the parameter along with its constituent parameters, if any (for a structure), and itemized members, if any (for a list). If not included for the RAN Parameter ID of a STRUCTURE type or a LIST type, then all the constituent RAN parameters under this RAN Parameter ID are assumed to be supported. Sequence of Call Process Types 0.. <maxnoo Only included if Event fCallProc Trigger Style 2 is supported. essTypes > >Call Process Type ID M 9.3.15 >Call Process Type Name M 9.3.19 >Sequence of Call Process Breakpoints 1.. <maxnoo fCallProc essBreak points> >>Call Process Breakpoint ID M 9.3.49 >>Call Process Breakpoint Name M 9.3.50 >>Sequence of Associated RAN 0.. RAN Parameters defined in Parameters <maxnoo Clause 8.1.2. Only included fAssociat if Associated E2 Node Info edRANP for Event Trigger style 2 is arameter supported s> >>>RAN Parameter ID M 9.3.8 >>>RAN Parameter Name M 9.3.9 >>>RAN Parameter Definition O 9.3.51 To define the parameter along with its constituent parameters, if any (for a structure), and itemized members, if any (for a list). If not included for the RAN Parameter ID of a STRUCTURE type or a LIST type, then all the constituent RAN parameters under this RAN Parameter ID are assumed to be supported. Sequence of RAN Parameters for 0.. RAN Parameters defined in Identifying UEs <maxnoo Clause 8.1.3. fAssociat Only included if Associated edRANP UE Info for any of Event arameter Trigger Styles 1, 2, 4, 5 is s> supported. >RAN Parameter ID M 9.3.8 >RAN Parameter Name M 9.3.9 >RAN Parameter Definition O 9.3.51 To define the parameter along with its constituent parameters, if any (for a structure), and itemized members, if any (for a list). If not included for the RAN Parameter ID of a STRUCTURE type or a LIST type, then all the constituent RAN parameters under this RAN Parameter ID are assumed to be supported. Sequence of RAN Parameters for 0.. RAN Parameters defined in Identifying Cells <maxnoo Clause 8.1.4. fAssociat Only included if Associated edRANP Cell Info for any of Event arameter Trigger Styles 3, 5 is s> supported. >RAN Parameter ID M 9.3.8 >RAN Parameter Name M 9.3.9 >RAN Parameter Definition O 9.3.51 To define the parameter along with its constituent parameters, if any (for a structure), and itemized members, if any (for a list). If not included for the RAN Parameter ID of a STRUCTURE type or a LIST type, then all the constituent RAN parameters under this RAN Parameter ID are assumed to be supported. Range bound Explanation maxnoofRICStyles Maximum no. of styles supported by RAN Function. The value is <63>. maxnoofAssociatedRANParameters Maximum no. of RAN parameters supported by RAN Function. The value is <65535>. maxnoofCallProcessTypes Maximum no. of Call Process types supported by RAN Function. The value is <65535>. maxnoofCallProcessBreakpoints Maximum no. of Call Process breakpoints supported by RAN Function. The value is <65535>.

#### 9.2.2.3 RAN Function Definition for REPORT
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type Semantics description and reference Sequence of REPOT styles 1.. <maxnoof RICStyles > >RIC Report Style Type M 9.3.3 >RIC Report Style Name M 9.3.4 >Supported RIC Event Trigger Style M 9.3.3 Type >RIC Report Action Format Type M 9.3.5 Action Definition type used by Report style >RIC Indication Header Format Type M 9.3.5 Indication Header type used by Report style >RIC Indication Message Format Type M 9.3.5 Indication Message type used by Report style >Sequence of RAN Parameters 0.. Only included if RAN Supported <maxnoof parameters for Associate corresponding Report style dRANPara are supported. meters> >>RAN Parameter ID M 9.3.8 RAN Parameter IDs for the corresponding Report Style defined in Clause 7.4. >>RAN Parameter Name M 9.3.9 RAN Parameter Names for the corresponding Report Style defined in Clause 7.4. >>RAN Parameter Definition O 9.3.51 To define the parameter along with its constituent parameters, if any (for a structure), and itemized members, if any (for a list). If not included for the RAN Parameter ID of a STRUCTURE type or a LIST type, then all the constituent RAN parameters under this RAN Parameter ID are assumed to be supported. Range bound Explanation maxnoofRICstyles Maximum no. of styles supported by RAN Function. The value is <63>. maxnoofAssociatedRANParameters Maximum no. of RAN parameters supported by RAN Function. The value is <65535>.

#### 9.2.2.4 RAN Function Definition for INSERT
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference Sequence of INSERT styles 1.. <maxnoo fRICStyle s> >RIC Insert Style Type M 9.3.3 >RIC Insert Style Name M 9.3.4 >Supported RIC Event Trigger Style M 9.3.3 Type >RIC Action Definition Format Type M 9.3.5 >Sequence of Insert Indications 0.. <maxnoo fInsertInd ication> >>Insert Indication ID M 9.3.16 Refer to Clause 7.5. >>Insert Indication Name M 9.3.17 Refer to Clause 7.5. >>Sequence of Associated RAN 0.. Only included if RAN Parameters <maxnoo parameters for fAssociat corresponding Insert style edRANP and Insert indication ID are arameter supported s> >>>RAN Parameter ID M 9.3.8 >>>RAN Parameter Name M 9.3.9 >>>RAN Parameter Definition O 9.3.51 To define the parameter along with its constituent parameters, if any (for a structure), and itemized members, if any (for a list). If not included for the RAN Parameter ID of a STRUCTURE type or a LIST type, then all the constituent RAN parameters under this RAN Parameter ID are assumed to be supported. >RIC Indication Header Format Type M 9.3.5 >RIC Indication Message Format Type M 9.3.5 >RIC Call Process ID Format Type M 9.3.5 Range bound Explanation maxnoofRICstyles Maximum no. of styles supported by RAN Function. The value is <63>. maxnoofInsertIndication Maximum no. of Insert indications supported by RAN Function. The value is <65535> maxnoofAssociatedRANParameters Maximum no. of RAN parameters supported by RAN Function. The value is <65535>.

#### 9.2.2.5 RAN Function Definition for CONTROL
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference Sequence of CONTROL styles 1.. <maxnoo fRICStyle s> >RIC Control Style Type M 9.3.3 >RIC Control Style Name M 9.3.4 >Sequence of Control Actions 0.. <maxnoo fControlA ction> >>Control Action ID M 9.3.6 >>Control Action Name M 9.3.7 >>Sequence of Associated RAN 0.. Only included if Control Parameters <maxnoo message RAN parameters fAssociat for corresponding Control edRANP style and Control Action ID arameter are supported s> >>>RAN Parameter ID M 9.3.8 >>>RAN Parameter Name M 9.3.9 >>>RAN Parameter Definition O 9.3.51 To define the parameter along with its constituent parameters, if any (for a structure), and itemized members, if any (for a list). If not included for the RAN Parameter ID of a STRUCTURE type or a LIST type, then all the constituent RAN parameters under this RAN Parameter ID are assumed to be supported. >>UE group-based Control action O ENUMERAT To indicate support of UE supported ED(true, group-based control as false,…) defined in Clause 7.6. Default is FALSE. >RIC Control Header Format Type M 9.3.5 >RIC Control Message Format Type M 9.3.5 >RIC Call Process ID Format Type O >RIC Control Outcome Format Type M 9.3.5 >Sequence of Associated RAN 0..<maxn Only included if Control Parameters for Control Outcome oofRANO Outcome RAN parameters utcomeP for corresponding Control arameter style are supported s> >>RAN Parameter ID M 9.3.8 >>RAN Parameter Name M 9.3.9 >>RAN Parameter Definition O 9.3.51 To define the parameter along with its constituent parameters, if any (for a structure), and itemized members, if any (for a list). If not included for the RAN Parameter ID of a STRUCTURE type or a LIST type, then all the constituent RAN parameters under this RAN Parameter ID are assumed to be supported. >List of additional supported Format 0..<maxn This IE shall be included if Types oofForma the UE group-based Control tTypes> action supported IE is set to “true” or Control Style uses action specific formats. >>RIC Control Header Format Type M 9.3.5 >>RIC Control Message Format Type M 9.3.5 >>RIC Control Outcome Format Type O 9.3.5 >>Control Action ID O 9.3.6 This IE shall be included if Control Style uses action specific formats Range bound Explanation maxnoofRICstyles Maximum no. of styles supported by RAN Function. The value is <63>. maxnoofControlAction Maximum no. of Control actions supported by RAN Function. The value is <65535>. maxnoofAssociatedRANParameters Maximum no. of RAN parameters supported by RAN Function. The value is <65535>. maxnoofRANOutcomeParameters Maximum no. of parameters in RAN Control Outcome supported by RAN Function. The value is <255> maxnoofFormatTypes Maximum no. of formats supported by a CONTROL service style. The value is <63>

#### 9.2.2.6 RAN Function Definition for POLICY
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference Sequence of POLICY styles 1.. <maxnoo fRICStyle s> >RIC Policy Style Type M 9.3.3 >RIC Policy Style Name M 9.3.4 >Supported RIC Event Trigger Style M 9.3.3 Type >Sequence of Policy Actions 0.. <maxnoo fPolicyAc tion> >>Policy Action ID M 9.3.6 >>Policy Action Name M 9.3.7 >>RIC Action Definition Format Type M 9.3.5 >>Sequence of Associated RAN 0.. Only included if RAN Parameters for Policy Action <maxnoo parameters for the Policy fAssociat action of the corresponding edRANP Policy style and Policy arameter Action ID are supported s> >>>RAN Parameter ID M 9.3.8 >>>RAN Parameter Name M 9.3.9 >>>RAN Parameter Definition O 9.3.51 To define the parameter along with its constituent parameters, if any (for a structure), and itemized members, if any (for a list). If not included for the RAN Parameter ID of a STRUCTURE type or a LIST type, then all the constituent RAN parameters under this RAN Parameter ID are assumed to be supported. >>Sequence of Associated RAN 0.. Only included if RAN Parameters for Policy Condition <maxnoo parameters for the Policy fAssociat condition of the edRANP corresponding Policy style arameter and Policy Action ID are s> supported >>>RAN Parameter ID M 9.3.8 >>>RAN Parameter Name M 9.3.9 >>>RAN Parameter Definition O 9.3.51 To define the parameter along with its constituent parameters, if any (for a structure), and itemized members, if any (for a list). If not included for the RAN Parameter ID of a STRUCTURE type or a LIST type, then all the constituent RAN parameters under this RAN Parameter ID are assumed to be supported. Range bound Explanation maxnoofRICstyles Maximum no. of styles supported by RAN Function. The value is <63>. maxnoofPolicyAction Maximum no. of Policy actions supported by RAN Function. The value is <65535>. maxnoofAssociatedRANParameters Maximum no. of RAN parameters supported by RAN Function. The value is <65535>.

#### 9.2.2.7 RAN Function Definition for QUERY
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type Semantics description and reference Sequence of QUERY styles 1.. <maxnoof RICStyles > >RIC Query Style Type M 9.3.3 >RIC Query Style Name M 9.3.4 >RIC Query Header Format Type M 9.3.5 Header type used by Query style >RIC Query Definition Format Type M 9.3.5 Query Definition format type used by Query style >RIC Query Outcome Format Type M 9.3.5 Query Outcome format type used by Query style >Sequence of RAN Parameters 0.. Only included if RAN Supported <maxnoof parameters for Associate corresponding Query style dRANPara are supported. meters> >>RAN Parameter ID M 9.3.8 RAN Parameter IDs for the corresponding Query Style defined in Clause 7.8. >>RAN Parameter Name M 9.3.9 RAN Parameter Names for the corresponding Query Style defined in Clause 7.8. >>RAN Parameter Definition O 9.3.51 To define the parameter along with its constituent parameters, if any (for a structure), and itemized members, if any (for a list). If not included for the RAN Parameter ID of a STRUCTURE type or a LIST type, then all the constituent RAN parameters under this RAN Parameter ID are assumed to be supported. Range bound Explanation maxnoofRICstyles Maximum no. of styles supported by RAN Function. The value is <63>. maxnoofAssociatedRANParameters Maximum no. of RAN parameters supported by RAN Function. The value is <65535>.

## 9.3 Information Element definitions

### 9.3.1 General
When specifying information elements which are to be represented by bit strings, if not otherwise specifically stated in the semantics description of the concerned IE or elsewhere, the following principle applies with regards to the ordering of bits:
- The first bit (leftmost bit) contains the most significant bit (MSB);
- The last bit (rightmost bit) contains the least significant bit (LSB);
- When importing bit strings from other specifications, the first bit of the bit string contains the first bit of the
concerned information.

### 9.3.2 RAN Function Name
This IE is defined in [4] clause 6.2.2.1.

### 9.3.3 RIC Style Type
This IE is defined in [4] clause 6.2.2.2.

### 9.3.4 RIC Style Name
This IE is defined in [4] clause 6.2.2.3.

### 9.3.5 RIC Format Type
This IE is defined in [4] clause 6.2.2.4.

### 9.3.6 Control Action ID
This IE uniquely identifies an action of a given RIC Control style. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Control Action ID M INTEGER (1.. 65535, …)

### 9.3.7 Control Action Name
This IE defines the name of a given control action. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Control Action Name M PrintableString(SIZE(1.. 150, ...))

### 9.3.8 RAN Parameter ID
This IE uniquely identifies a specific RAN parameter of a given RIC Control style. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description RAN Parameter ID M INTEGER (1.. 4294967295, …)

### 9.3.9 RAN Parameter Name
This IE defines the name of a given RAN parameter. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description RAN Parameter Name M PrintableString(SIZE(1.. 150, ...))

### 9.3.10 UE ID
This IE is defined in [4] clause 6.2.2.6.

### 9.3.11 RAN Parameter Value Type
This IE specifies the RAN parameters controlled by the RIC. The parameters can be individual elements, or structures containing constituent elements or a list of structures. The parameters and their types are given in Clause 8.4. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference CHOICE RAN Parameter M A RAN Parameter can either be an Value Type ELEMENT or a STRUCTURE or a LIST. >ELEMENT with Key Flag If the RAN parameter is singular variable TRUE and if it is a key parameter with key flag set to TRUE as in Clause 8. >>RAN Parameter Value M 9.3.14 This IE must be filled for both INSERT and CONTROL if the key flag is TRUE so as to reference the proper structure within the list. >ELEMENT with Key Flag If the RAN parameter is singular variable FALSE and if it is NOT a key parameter (key flag set to FALSE). as in Clause 8. >>RAN Parameter Value C-ifControl 9.3.14 This IE must be filled if this structure is part of a RIC Control Request message; else, if it is part of a RIC Indication message, this IE is optional. >STRUCTURE If the RAN parameter is a structure, in turn containing a set of RAN parameters. >>RAN Parameter Structure M 9.3.12 >LIST If the RAN parameter is a list containing individual items, each of which has an index. >>RAN Parameter List M 9.3.13 Condition Explanation ifControl This IE shall be present if it is part of a RIC Control Request message. Otherwise, it is optional.

### 9.3.12 RAN Parameter Structure
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference Sequence of RAN Parameters 0..<maxno The size must be at least 1 in the ofParamet case of CONTROL. ersinStruct ure> >RAN Parameter ID M 9.3.8 >RAN Parameter Value Type M 9.3.11 Each parameter in the structure can in turn be an individual ELEMENT or another STRUCTURE or a LIST Range bound Explanation maxnoofParametersinStructure Maximum no. of RAN parameters supported in a structure. The value is <65535>.

### 9.3.13 RAN Parameter List
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference List of RAN Parameter 0..<max The size must be at least 1 in the Structures noofIte case of CONTROL msinList > >RAN Parameter ID M 9.3.8 >RAN Parameter Structure M 9.3.12 Range bound Explanation maxnoofItemsinList Maximum no. of RAN parameters supported in a structure. The value is <65535>.

### 9.3.14 RAN Parameter Value
This IE defines the target value type for a RAN parameter ELEMENT. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description CHOICE RAN Parameter M Value >BOOLEAN BOOLEAN >INTEGER INTEGER >REAL REAL >BIT STRING BIT STRING >OCTET STRING OCTET STRING >PrintableString PrintableString

### 9.3.15 Call Process Type ID
This IE uniquely identifies a call Process Type for a call process breakpoint event trigger. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Call Process Type ID M INTEGER (1.. 65535, …)

### 9.3.16 Insert Indication ID
This IE uniquely identifies an action of a given RIC Control style. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Insert Indication ID M INTEGER (1.. 65535, …)

### 9.3.17 Insert Indication Name
This IE defines the name of a given control action. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Insert Indication Name M PrintableString(SIZE(1.. 150, ...))

### 9.3.18 RAN Call Process ID
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Call Process ID INTEGER (1.. To be used to match an 4294967295, …) INSERT Indication request with a following CONTROL action

### 9.3.19 Call Process Type Name
This IE defines the name of a given call Process Type. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Call Process Type Name M PrintableString (SIZE(1..150, …))

### 9.3.20 Policy Action
This IE defines the Policy Action IE IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Policy Action ID M 9.3.6 Combined with RIC Style to define Policy type Sequence of RAN 0..<maxnoofAss Parameters ociatedRANPara meters> >RAN Parameter ID M 9.3.8 >RAN Parameter Value M 9.3.11 Type RIC Policy decision O ENUMERATED (accept, Used to indicate reject, …) accept or reject a RRM function as Policy Action Range bound Explanation maxnoofAssociatedRANParameters Maximum no. of RAN Parameter types in action definition supported by RAN Function. Value is <65535>.

### 9.3.21 Event Trigger Condition ID
This IE defines an identifier for event trigger conditions configured for a specific Event Trigger style. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Event Trigger Condition ID M INTEGER (1..65535, …)

### 9.3.22 Event Trigger ID for UE
This IE defines an identifier for a specific UE related condition configured for event triggering. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Event Trigger ID for UE M INTEGER (1..65535, …)

### 9.3.23 Event Trigger ID for UE Event
This IE defines an identifier for a specific UE event configured for event triggering. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Event Trigger ID for UE M INTEGER (1..65535, …) Event

### 9.3.24 Event Trigger ID for Cell
This IE defines an identifier for a specific cell related condition configured for event triggering. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Event Trigger ID for Cell M INTEGER (1..65535, …)

### 9.3.25 Logical OR This IE indicates a logical ("and” or “or”) connection of the current condition to the next condition in a given sequence of
conditions. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Logical OR M ENUMERATED (true, false, If set to “true”, …) logical connection to the next condition is “or”. Otherwise, “and”.

### 9.3.26 Event Trigger UE Information
This IE defines a set of applicable UEs for event triggering. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference Sequence of Associated 1..<maxnoofUEInf UE Information o> >Event Trigger UE ID M 9.3.22 >CHOICE UE Type >>Individual UE >>>UE ID M 9.3.10 >>>RAN Parameter O 9.3.29 To test a set of RAN Testing for Individual Parameter conditions for a UE given UE. RAN Parameters defined in Clause 8.1.3 shall be used. >>UE Group >>>RAN Parameter M 9.3.29 To test a set of RAN Testing for UE Group Parameter conditions for defining a given UE group RAN Parameters defined in Clause 8.1.3 shall be used. >Logical OR O 9.3.25 Range bound Explanation maxnoofUEInfo Maximum number of UE information in a given E2 node for which event trigger can be defined. The value is <65535>

### 9.3.27 Event Trigger Cell Information
This IE defines a set of applicable cells for event triggering. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference Sequence of Associated 1..<maxnoofCellIn Cell Information fo> >Event Trigger Cell ID M 9.3.24 >CHOICE Cell Type M >>Individual Cell >>>Cell Global ID M 9.3.36 >>Cell Group >>>RAN Parameter M 9.3.29 To test a set of RAN Testing for Cell Group Parameter conditions for defining a given Cell group RAN Parameters defined in Clause 8.1.4 shall be used. >Logical OR O 9.3.25 Range bound Explanation maxnoofCellInfo Maximum number of cells in a given E2 node for which event trigger can be defined. The value is <65535>

### 9.3.28 Event Trigger UE Event Information
This IE defines a set of UE events for event triggering. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference Sequence of UE Event for 1..<maxnoofUEev Event Triggering entInfo> >UE Event ID M 9.3.23 UE Events defined in Clause 8.1.5 shall be used. >Logical OR O 9.3.25 Range bound Explanation maxnoofUEeventInfo Maximum number of UE Event information in a given E2 node for which event trigger can be defined. The value is <65535>

### 9.3.29 RAN Parameter Conditional Criteria Definition
This IE defines the generic test conditions based on RAN parameters. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference Sequence of RAN 1..<maxnoofRANp Parameter Testing aramTest> >RAN Parameter Testing M 9.3.30 Range bound Explanation maxnoofRANparamTest Maximum no. of RAN Parameter Testing. Value is <255>

### 9.3.30 RAN Parameter Test
This IE defines a set of test conditions for RAN parameters nested under a given RAN parameter through recursions. Only “ELEMENT” type of RAN parameter with Key Flag set to “False” is tested. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference RAN Parameter ID M 9.3.9 CHOICE RAN Parameter Type M A RAN Parameter can either be an ELEMENT or a STRUCTURE or a LIST. An ELEMENT type RAN Parameter is with Key Flag set to either “True” or “False”. >LIST >>List of RAN Parameter Structures 1..<maxno ofItemsinL ist> >>>RAN Parameter Testing M 9.3.30 >STRUCTURE >>Sequence of RAN Parameters 1..<maxno ofParamet ersinStruct ure> >>>RAN Parameter Testing M 9.3.30 >ELEMENT with Key Flag True >>RAN Parameter Value M 9.3.14 >ELEMENT with Key Flag False >>RAN Parameter Test M 9.3.31 Condition >>RAN Parameter Value O 9.3.14 >>Logical OR O 9.3.25 Range bound Explanation maxnoofItemsinList Maximum no. of RAN parameters supported in a structure. The value is <65535>. maxnoofParametersinStructure Maximum no. of RAN parameters supported in a structure. The value is <65535>.

### 9.3.31 RAN Parameter Test Condition
This IE compares the particular value of a given RAN parameter with the target value. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description CHOICE RAN Parameter Test Condition >Comparison M ENUMERATED (equal, Applies only when difference, greaterthan, RAN Parameter lessthan, contains, starts with, Value is present in …) 9.3.30. >Presence M ENUMERATED (present, Applies only when configured, rollover, non-zero, RAN Parameter …, value-change) Value is not present in 9.3.30. For the choice type of “Comparison”, the test condition is Value (RAN Parameter ID) (RAN Parameter Test Condition) (RAN Parameter Value). RAN Parameter Test Test condition condition Equal Value (RAN Parameter ID) = (RAN Parameter Value) Difference Value (RAN Parameter ID) <> (RAN Parameter Value) Greaterthan Value (RAN Parameter ID) => (RAN Parameter Value) lessthan Value (RAN Parameter ID) < (RAN Parameter Value) contains Value (RAN Parameter ID) contains (RAN Parameter Value) Starts with Value (RAN Parameter ID) has the same initial part as (RAN Parameter Value) For the choice type of “Presence”, the test condition is applied to Value (RAN Parameter ID) RAN Parameter Test Test condition condition present Value (RAN Parameter ID) is defined (i.e. memory allocated) configured Value (RAN Parameter ID) has been set (i.e. not NULL) rollover Value (RAN Parameter ID) was max defined value and now 0 non-zero Value (RAN Parameter ID) <> 0 Length (Value (RAN Parameter ID)) > 0

### 9.3.32 Network Interface Type
This IE is defined in [4] clause 6.2.2.10.

### 9.3.33 Network Interface Identifier
This IE is defined in [4] clause 6.2.2.11.

### 9.3.34 Network Interface Message ID
This IE is defined in [4] clause 6.2.2.12.

### 9.3.35 RRC Message ID
This IE is defined in [4] clause 6.2.2.13.

### 9.3.36 Cell Global ID
This IE is defined in [4] clause 6.2.2.5.

### 9.3.37 RRC State
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description RRC State M ENUMERATED Value ‘any’ indicates (RRC_Connected, RRC state shall be RRC_Inactive, any of the values in RRC_Idle, Any, …) the enumeration.

### 9.3.38 Neighbour Relation Information
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Serving Cell PCI M 9.3.39 Serving Cell ARFCN M 9.3.40 DL Frequency Info for FDD Mode. Neighbour Cell List 1..<maxnoofNeighbourCell> >CHOICE RAN Type M >>NR M >>>NR CGI M 9.3.41 >>>NR PCI M 9.3.42 >>>5GS TAC M 9.3.43 >>>NR Mode Info M ENUMERATED (fdd, tdd, …) >>>NR Frequency Info M 9.3.44 DL Frequency Info for FDD Mode. NR Frequency Info IE in TS 38.473 9.3.1.17 >>>Xn X2 Established M ENUMERATED (true, Value “true” shall false, …) indicate that Xn or X2 Interface Setup with the neighbour is successful. >>>HO Validated M ENUMERATED (true, Value “true” if at least false, …) one successful HO is executed with the neighbour. >>>Version M INTEGER For every neighbour (1..65535, …) information, the value is incremented by 1. When there is a change in the existing neighbour information, a new incremented version number is used. The deleted neighbours are not sent. >>E-UTRA M >>>E-UTRA CGI M 9.3.45 >>>E-UTRA PCI M 9.3.46 >>>E-UTRA ARFCN M 9.3.47 >>>E-UTRA TAC M 9.3.48 >>>Xn X2 Established M ENUMERATED (true, Value “true” shall false, …) indicate that Xn or X2 Interface Setup with the neighbour is successful. >>>HO Validated M ENUMERATED (true, Value “true” if at least false, …) one successful HO is executed with this neighbour. >>>Version M INTEGER (1..65535, For every neighbour …) information, the value is incremented by 1. When there is a change in the existing neighbour information, a new incremented version number is used. The deleted neighbours are not sent. Range bound Explanation maxnoofNeighbourCell Maximum no. of Neighbour Cell information per Serving cell. The value is <65535>.

### 9.3.39 Serving Cell PCI
This IE is defined in [4] clause 6.2.2.14.

### 9.3.40 Serving Cell ARFCN
This IE is defined in [4] clause 6.2.2.15.

### 9.3.41 NR CGI
This IE is defined in [4] clause 6.2.3.7.

### 9.3.42 NR PCI
This IE is defined in [4] clause 6.2.3.29.

### 9.3.43 NR TAC
This IE is defined in [4] clause 6.2.3.31.

### 9.3.44 NR Frequency Info
This IE is defined in [4] clause 6.2.3.36.

### 9.3.45 E-UTRA CGI
This IE is defined in [4] clause 6.2.3.11.

### 9.3.46 E-UTRA PCI
This IE is defined in [4] clause 6.2.3.32.

### 9.3.47 E-UTRA TAC
This IE is defined in [4] clause 6.2.3.34.

### 9.3.48 E-UTRA ARFCN
This IE is defined in [4] clause 6.2.3.33.

### 9.3.49 Call Process Breakpoint ID
This IE uniquely identifies a call Process breakpoint for a given call process type. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Call Process Breakpoint ID M INTEGER (1.. 65535, …)

### 9.3.50 Call Process Breakpoint Name
This IE defines the name of a given call Process breakpoint. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Call Process Breakpoint M PrintableString (SIZE(1..150, Name …))

### 9.3.51 RAN Parameter Definition
This IE specifies the definition of a RAN parameter that can be controlled by the RIC when the RAN parameter is of a STRUCTURE type or a LIST type. The parameters and their types are given in Clause 8. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference CHOICE RAN Parameter Type M A RAN Parameter can either be a LIST or a STRUCTURE. >LIST >>List of RAN Parameter 1..<max noofIte msinList > >>>RAN Parameter ID M 9.3.8 >>>RAN Parameter Name M 9.3.9 This IE shall be ignored when included in a RIC Functional Procedure message. >>>RAN Parameter O 9.3.51 If not included for the RAN Parameter ID Definition of a STRUCTURE type or a LIST type, then all the itemized RAN parameters under this RAN Parameter ID are assumed to be supported. Shall not be included If the RAN Parameter ID is of an ELEMENT type. >STRUCTURE >>Sequence of RAN 1..<max Parameters noofPar ameters inStruct ure> >>>RAN Parameter ID M 9.3.8 >>>RAN Parameter Name M 9.3.9 This IE shall be ignored when included in a RIC Functional Procedure message. >>>RAN Parameter O 9.3.51 If not included for the RAN Parameter ID Definition of a STRUCTURE type or a LIST type, then all the itemized RAN parameters under this RAN Parameter ID are assumed to be supported. Shall not be included If the RAN Parameter ID is of an ELEMENT type. Range bound Explanation maxnoofItemsinList Maximum no. of RAN parameters supported in a list. The value is <65535>. maxnoofParametersinStructure Maximum no. of RAN parameters supported in a structure. The value is <65535>.

### 9.3.52 Associated UE Information
This IE defines a set of applicable UEs for Query Service. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics description reference Sequence of Associated 1..<maxnoofUEInf UE Information o> >UE Filter ID M 9.3.53 >CHOICE UE Type >>Individual UE >>>UE ID M 9.3.10 >>>RAN Parameter O 9.3.29 To test a set of RAN Testing for Individual Parameter conditions for a UE given UE. RAN Parameters defined in Clause 8.1.3 shall be used. >>UE Group >>>RAN Parameter M 9.3.29 To test a set of RAN Testing for UE Group Parameter conditions for defining a given UE group RAN Parameters defined in Clause 8.1.3 shall be used. >>UE Query >>>Partial UE ID M 9.3.57 >>>RAN Parameter O 9.3.29 To test a set of RAN Testing Parameter conditions for a UE. RAN Parameters defined in Clause 8.1.3 shall be used. >Logical OR O 9.3.25 Range bound Explanation maxnoofUEInfo Maximum number of UE information in a given E2 node for UE filter conditions. The value is <65535>

### 9.3.53 UE Filter ID
This IE defines an identifier for UE Filter Conditions. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description UE Filter ID M INTEGER (1..65535, …)

### 9.3.54 UE Group ID
This IE defines an identifier to uniquely identify a UE group. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description UE group ID M INTEGER (1..65535, …)

### 9.3.55 Entity Filter ID
This IE defines an identifier to uniquely identify an entity filter that defines the set of entities across the UEs in a UE group. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Entity Filter ID M INTEGER (1..255, …)

### 9.3.56 UE Group Definition
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics reference description List of identifiers to define the UE 1 group >Identifier Item IEs 1..<maxGroupDefin itionIdentifierParam eters> >>RAN Parameter ID M 9.3.8 Only RAN Parameters from Clause 8.1.3 shall be used >>RAN Parameter Value Type M 9.3.11 >>Logical OR O ENUMERATED Default is FALSE (true, …) Range bound Explanation maxGroupDefinitionIdentifierParame Maximum no. of RAN parameters used to determine a logical grouping of UEs. ters The value is <255>.

### 9.3.57 Partial UE ID
This IE is defined in [4] clause 6.2.2.18.

### 9.3.58 Policy Condition ID
This IE defines an identifier for Policy Condition ID. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Policy Condition ID M INTEGER (0..65535)

### 9.3.59 PLMN Identity
This IE is defined in [4] clause 6.2.3.1.

### 9.3.60 Serving Cell Configuration Common
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics reference description SSB Positions in Burst M OCTET STRING ssb-PositionsInBurst IE in TS 38.331 [22] Clause 6.3.2 SSB Periodicity M ENUMERATED ssb- {ms5, ms10, periodicityServingCell ms20, ms40, IE in TS 38.331 [22] ms80, ms160, ...} Clause 6.3.2 SSB Subcarrier Spacing M ENUMERATED ssbSubcarrierSpacing {kHz15, kHz30, IE in TS 38.331 [22] kHz60, kHz120, Clause 6.3.2 kHz240, kHz480- v1700, kHz960- v1700, …}

## 9.4 Information Element Abstract Syntax (with ASN.1)

### 9.4.1 General
E2SM-RC ASN.1 definition conforms to ITU-T Rec. X.680 [5] and ITU-T Rec. X.681 [6]. Sub clause 9.4.2 presents the Abstract Syntax of the E2SM information elements to be carried within the E2AP [3] protocol messages with ASN.1. In case there is contradiction between the ASN.1 definition in this sub clause and the tabular format in sub clause 9.2 and 9.3, the ASN.1 shall take precedence, except for the definition of conditions for the presence of conditional elements, in which the tabular format shall take precedence. If an E2SM information element carried as an OCTET STRING in an E2AP [3] message that is not constructed as defined above is received, this shall be considered as Abstract Syntax Error, and the message shall be handled as defined for Abstract Syntax Error in clause 9.

### 9.4.2 Information Element Definitions
-- ASN1START -- ************************************************************** -- E2SM-RC Information Element Definitions -- ************************************************************** E2SM-RC-IEs { iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1) private(4) enterprise(1) oran(53148) e2(1) version1(1) e2sm(2) e2sm-RC-IEs (3)} DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::= BEGIN -- ************************************************************** -- E2SM Common IEs -- ************************************************************** IMPORTS CGI, E-UTRA-ARFCN, EUTRA-CGI, E-UTRA-PCI, E-UTRA-TAC, FiveGS-TAC, InterfaceIdentifier, InterfaceType, Interface-MessageID, NRFrequencyInfo, NR-CGI, NR-PCI, PartialUEID, RANfunction-Name, RIC-Format-Type, RIC-Style-Name, RIC-Style-Type, RRC-MessageID, ServingCell-ARFCN, ServingCell-PCI, UEID FROM E2SM-COMMON-IEs; -- ***************************************************** -- CONSTANTS -- ***************************************************** maxnoofMessages INTEGER ::= 65535 maxnoofE2InfoChanges INTEGER ::= 65535 maxnoofUEInfoChanges INTEGER ::= 65535 maxnoofRRCstate INTEGER ::= 8 maxnoofParametersToReport INTEGER ::= 65535 maxnoofPolicyConditions INTEGER ::= 65535 maxnoofAssociatedRANParameters INTEGER ::= 65535 maxnoofUEID INTEGER ::= 65535 maxnoofCellID INTEGER ::= 65535 maxnoofRANOutcomeParameters INTEGER ::= 255 maxnoofParametersinStructure INTEGER ::= 65535 maxnoofItemsinList INTEGER ::= 65535 maxnoofUEInfo INTEGER ::= 65535 maxnoofCellInfo INTEGER ::= 65535 maxnoofUEeventInfo INTEGER ::= 65535 maxnoofRANparamTest INTEGER ::= 255 maxnoofNeighbourCell INTEGER ::= 65535 maxnoofRICStyles INTEGER ::= 63 maxnoofCallProcessTypes INTEGER ::= 65535 maxnoofCallProcessBreakpoints INTEGER ::= 65535 maxnoofInsertIndication INTEGER ::= 65535 maxnoofControlAction INTEGER ::= 65535 maxnoofPolicyAction INTEGER ::= 65535 maxnoofInsertIndicationActions INTEGER ::= 63 maxnoofMulCtrlActions INTEGER ::= 63 maxGroupDefinitionIdentifierParameters INTEGER ::= 255 maxnoofAssociatedEntityFilters INTEGER ::= 255 maxnoofFormatTypes INTEGER ::= 63 -- ***************************************************** -- IEs -- ***************************************************** LogicalOR ::= ENUMERATED {true, false, ...} NeighbourCell-List ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofNeighbourCell)) OF NeighbourCell-Item NeighbourCell-Item ::= CHOICE { ranType-Choice-NR NeighbourCell-Item-Choice-NR, ranType-Choice-EUTRA NeighbourCell-Item-Choice-E-UTRA, ... } NeighbourCell-Item-Choice-NR ::= SEQUENCE { nR-CGI NR-CGI, nR-PCI NR-PCI, fiveGS-TAC FiveGS-TAC, nR-mode-info ENUMERATED {fdd, tdd, ...}, nR-FreqInfo NRFrequencyInfo, x2-Xn-established ENUMERATED {true, false, ...}, hO-validated ENUMERATED {true, false, ...}, version INTEGER (1..65535, ...), ... } NeighbourCell-Item-Choice-E-UTRA ::= SEQUENCE { eUTRA-CGI EUTRA-CGI, eUTRA-PCI E-UTRA-PCI, eUTRA-ARFCN E-UTRA-ARFCN, eUTRA-TAC E-UTRA-TAC, x2-Xn-established ENUMERATED {true, false, ...}, hO-validated ENUMERATED {true, false, ...}, version INTEGER (1..65535, ...), ... } NeighbourRelation-Info ::= SEQUENCE { servingCellPCI ServingCell-PCI, servingCellARFCN ServingCell-ARFCN, neighbourCell-List NeighbourCell-List, ... } RRC-State ::= ENUMERATED {rrc-connected, rrc-inactive, rrc-idle, any, ...} ------------------------------- -- Event Trigger related IEs ------------------------------- EventTrigger-Cell-Info ::= SEQUENCE { cellInfo-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofCellInfo)) OF EventTrigger-Cell-Info-Item, ... } EventTrigger-Cell-Info-Item ::= SEQUENCE { eventTriggerCellID RIC-EventTrigger-Cell-ID, cellType CHOICE { cellType-Choice-Individual EventTrigger-Cell-Info-Item-Choice-Individual, cellType-Choice-Group EventTrigger-Cell-Info-Item-Choice-Group, ... }, logicalOR LogicalOR OPTIONAL, ... } EventTrigger-Cell-Info-Item-Choice-Individual ::= SEQUENCE { cellGlobalID CGI, ... } EventTrigger-Cell-Info-Item-Choice-Group ::= SEQUENCE { ranParameterTesting RANParameter-Testing, ... } EventTrigger-UE-Info ::= SEQUENCE { ueInfo-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofUEInfo)) OF EventTrigger-UE-Info-Item, ... } EventTrigger-UE-Info-Item ::= SEQUENCE { eventTriggerUEID RIC-EventTrigger-UE-ID, ueType CHOICE { ueType-Choice-Individual EventTrigger-UE-Info-Item-Choice-Individual, ueType-Choice-Group EventTrigger-UE-Info-Item-Choice-Group, ... }, logicalOR LogicalOR OPTIONAL, ... } EventTrigger-UE-Info-Item-Choice-Individual ::= SEQUENCE { ueID UEID, ranParameterTesting RANParameter-Testing OPTIONAL, ... } EventTrigger-UE-Info-Item-Choice-Group ::= SEQUENCE { ranParameterTesting RANParameter-Testing, ... } EventTrigger-UEevent-Info ::= SEQUENCE { ueEvent-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofUEeventInfo)) OF EventTrigger-UEevent-Info- Item, ... } EventTrigger-UEevent-Info-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ueEventID RIC-EventTrigger-UEevent-ID, logicalOR LogicalOR OPTIONAL, ... } ------------------------------- -- RAN Parameter related IEs ------------------------------- RANParameter-ID ::= INTEGER (1..4294967295, ...) RANParameter-Name ::= PrintableString (SIZE(1..150, ...)) RANParameter-Definition ::= SEQUENCE { ranParameter-Definition-Choice RANParameter-Definition-Choice, ... } RANParameter-Definition-Choice ::= CHOICE { choiceLIST RANParameter-Definition-Choice-LIST, choiceSTRUCTURE RANParameter-Definition-Choice-STRUCTURE, ... } RANParameter-Definition-Choice-LIST ::= SEQUENCE { ranParameter-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofItemsinList)) OF RANParameter-Definition- Choice-LIST-Item, ... } RANParameter-Definition-Choice-LIST-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ranParameter-ID RANParameter-ID, ranParameter-name RANParameter-Name, ranParameter-Definition RANParameter-Definition OPTIONAL, ... } RANParameter-Definition-Choice-STRUCTURE ::= SEQUENCE { ranParameter-STRUCTURE SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofParametersinStructure)) OF RANParameter- Definition-Choice-STRUCTURE-Item, ... } RANParameter-Definition-Choice-STRUCTURE-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ranParameter-ID RANParameter-ID, ranParameter-name RANParameter-Name, ranParameter-Definition RANParameter-Definition OPTIONAL, ... } RANParameter-Value ::= CHOICE { valueBoolean BOOLEAN, valueInt INTEGER, valueReal REAL, valueBitS BIT STRING, valueOctS OCTET STRING, valuePrintableString PrintableString, ... } RANParameter-ValueType ::= CHOICE { ranP-Choice-ElementTrue RANParameter-ValueType-Choice-ElementTrue, ranP-Choice-ElementFalse RANParameter-ValueType-Choice-ElementFalse, ranP-Choice-Structure RANParameter-ValueType-Choice-Structure, ranP-Choice-List RANParameter-ValueType-Choice-List, ... } RANParameter-ValueType-Choice-ElementTrue ::= SEQUENCE { ranParameter-value RANParameter-Value, ... } RANParameter-ValueType-Choice-ElementFalse ::= SEQUENCE { ranParameter-value RANParameter-Value OPTIONAL, -- C-ifControl: This IE shall be present if it is part of a RIC Control Request message. Otherwise it is optional. ... } RANParameter-ValueType-Choice-Structure ::= SEQUENCE { ranParameter-Structure RANParameter-STRUCTURE, ... } RANParameter-ValueType-Choice-List ::= SEQUENCE { ranParameter-List RANParameter-LIST, ... } RANParameter-STRUCTURE ::= SEQUENCE { sequence-of-ranParameters SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofParametersinStructure)) OF RANParameter- STRUCTURE-Item OPTIONAL, ... } RANParameter-STRUCTURE-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ranParameter-ID RANParameter-ID, ranParameter-valueType RANParameter-ValueType, ... } RANParameter-LIST ::= SEQUENCE { list-of-ranParameter SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofItemsinList)) OF RANParameter-STRUCTURE, ... } RANParameter-Testing ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofRANparamTest)) OF RANParameter-Testing-Item RANParameter-TestingCondition ::= CHOICE { ranP-Choice-comparison ENUMERATED {equal, difference, greaterthan, lessthan, contains, starts-with, ...}, ranP-Choice-presence ENUMERATED {present, configured, rollover, non-zero, ..., value- change}, ... } RANParameter-Testing-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ranParameter-ID RANParameter-ID, ranParameter-Type CHOICE { ranP-Choice-List RANParameter-Testing-Item-Choice-List, ranP-Choice-Structure RANParameter-Testing-Item-Choice-Structure, ranP-Choice-ElementTrue RANParameter-Testing-Item-Choice-ElementTrue, ranP-Choice-ElementFalse RANParameter-Testing-Item-Choice-ElementFalse, ... }, ... } RANParameter-Testing-Item-Choice-List ::= SEQUENCE { ranParameter-List RANParameter-Testing-LIST, ... } RANParameter-Testing-Item-Choice-Structure ::= SEQUENCE { ranParameter-Structure RANParameter-Testing-STRUCTURE, ... } RANParameter-Testing-Item-Choice-ElementTrue ::= SEQUENCE { ranParameter-value RANParameter-Value, ... } RANParameter-Testing-Item-Choice-ElementFalse ::= SEQUENCE { ranParameter-TestCondition RANParameter-TestingCondition, ranParameter-Value RANParameter-Value OPTIONAL, logicalOR LogicalOR OPTIONAL, ... } RANParameter-Testing-LIST ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofItemsinList)) OF RANParameter-Testing-Item RANParameter-Testing-STRUCTURE ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofParametersinStructure)) OF RANParameter- Testing-Item UE-Group-Definition ::= SEQUENCE { ueGroupDefinitionIdentifier-LIST SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxGroupDefinitionIdentifierParameters)) OF UEGroupDefinitionIdentifier-Item, ... } UEGroupDefinitionIdentifier-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ranParameter-ID RANParameter-ID, ranParameter-valueType RANParameter-ValueType, logicalOR LogicalOR OPTIONAL, ... } ---------------------------- -- RIC Service related IEs ---------------------------- RAN-CallProcess-ID ::= INTEGER (1..4294967295, ...) RIC-CallProcessType-ID ::= INTEGER (1..65535, ...) RIC-CallProcessType-Name ::= PrintableString (SIZE(1..150, ...)) RIC-CallProcessBreakpoint-ID ::= INTEGER (1..65535, ...) RIC-CallProcessBreakpoint-Name ::= PrintableString (SIZE(1..150, ...)) RIC-ControlAction-ID ::= INTEGER (1..65535, ...) RIC-ControlAction-Name ::= PrintableString (SIZE(1..150, ...)) RIC-EventTriggerCondition-ID ::= INTEGER (1..65535, ...) RIC-EventTrigger-UE-ID ::= INTEGER (1..65535, ...) RIC-EventTrigger-UEevent-ID ::= INTEGER (1..65535, ...) RIC-EventTrigger-Cell-ID ::= INTEGER (1..65535, ...) RIC-InsertIndication-ID ::= INTEGER (1..65535, ...) RIC-InsertIndication-Name ::= PrintableString (SIZE(1..150, ...)) UE-Group-ID ::= INTEGER (1..65535, ...) EntityFilter-ID ::= INTEGER (1..255, ...) Ric-PolicyConditionID ::= INTEGER (0.. 65535) RIC-PolicyAction ::= SEQUENCE { ric-PolicyAction-ID RIC-ControlAction-ID, ranParameters-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofAssociatedRANParameters)) OF RIC- PolicyAction-RANParameter-Item OPTIONAL, ..., ric-PolicyDecision ENUMERATED {accept, reject, ...} OPTIONAL } RIC-PolicyAction-RANParameter-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ranParameter-ID RANParameter-ID, ranParameter-valueType RANParameter-ValueType, ... } UE-Filter-ID ::= INTEGER (1..65535, ...) Associated-UE-Info ::= SEQUENCE { associatedUEInfo-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofUEInfo)) OF Associated-UE-Info-Item, ... } Associated-UE-Info-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ueFilterID UE-Filter-ID, ueType CHOICE { ueType-Choice-Individual EventTrigger-UE-Info-Item-Choice-Individual, ueType-Choice-Group EventTrigger-UE-Info-Item-Choice-Group, ..., ueQuery UEQuery }, logicalOR LogicalOR OPTIONAL, ... } UEQuery ::= SEQUENCE { partialUEID PartialUEID, ranParameterTesting RANParameter-Testing OPTIONAL, ... } -- ************************************************************** -- E2SM-RC Service Model IEs -- ************************************************************** -- *************************************************** -- Event Trigger OCTET STRING contents -- *************************************************** E2SM-RC-EventTrigger ::= SEQUENCE { ric-eventTrigger-formats CHOICE { eventTrigger-Format1 E2SM-RC-EventTrigger-Format1, eventTrigger-Format2 E2SM-RC-EventTrigger-Format2, eventTrigger-Format3 E2SM-RC-EventTrigger-Format3, eventTrigger-Format4 E2SM-RC-EventTrigger-Format4, eventTrigger-Format5 NULL, ... }, ... } E2SM-RC-EventTrigger-Format1 ::= SEQUENCE { message-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofMessages)) OF E2SM-RC-EventTrigger- Format1-Item, globalAssociatedUEInfo EventTrigger-UE-Info OPTIONAL, ... } E2SM-RC-EventTrigger-Format1-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ric-eventTriggerCondition-ID RIC-EventTriggerCondition-ID, messageType MessageType-Choice, messageDirection ENUMERATED {incoming, outgoing, ...} OPTIONAL, associatedUEInfo EventTrigger-UE-Info OPTIONAL, associatedUEEvent EventTrigger-UEevent-Info OPTIONAL, logicalOR LogicalOR OPTIONAL, ... } MessageType-Choice ::= CHOICE { messageType-Choice-NI MessageType-Choice-NI, messageType-Choice-RRC MessageType-Choice-RRC, ... } MessageType-Choice-NI ::= SEQUENCE { nI-Type InterfaceType, nI-Identifier InterfaceIdentifier OPTIONAL, nI-Message Interface-MessageID OPTIONAL, ... } MessageType-Choice-RRC ::= SEQUENCE { rRC-Message RRC-MessageID, ... } E2SM-RC-EventTrigger-Format2 ::= SEQUENCE { ric-callProcessType-ID RIC-CallProcessType-ID, ric-callProcessBreakpoint-ID RIC-CallProcessBreakpoint-ID, associatedE2NodeInfo RANParameter-Testing OPTIONAL, associatedUEInfo EventTrigger-UE-Info OPTIONAL, ... } E2SM-RC-EventTrigger-Format3 ::= SEQUENCE { e2NodeInfoChange-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofE2InfoChanges)) OF E2SM-RC-EventTrigger- Format3-Item, ... } E2SM-RC-EventTrigger-Format3-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ric-eventTriggerCondition-ID RIC-EventTriggerCondition-ID, e2NodeInfoChange-ID INTEGER (1..512, ...), associatedCellInfo EventTrigger-Cell-Info OPTIONAL, logicalOR LogicalOR OPTIONAL, ... } E2SM-RC-EventTrigger-Format4 ::= SEQUENCE { uEInfoChange-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofUEInfoChanges)) OF E2SM-RC- EventTrigger-Format4-Item, ... } E2SM-RC-EventTrigger-Format4-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ric-eventTriggerCondition-ID RIC-EventTriggerCondition-ID, triggerType TriggerType-Choice, associatedUEInfo EventTrigger-UE-Info OPTIONAL, logicalOR LogicalOR OPTIONAL, ... } TriggerType-Choice ::= CHOICE { triggerType-Choice-RRCstate TriggerType-Choice-RRCstate, triggerType-Choice-UEID TriggerType-Choice-UEID, triggerType-Choice-L2state TriggerType-Choice-L2state, ..., triggerType-Choice-UEcontext TriggerType-Choice-UEcontext, triggerType-Choice-L2MACschChg TriggerType-Choice-L2MACschChg } TriggerType-Choice-RRCstate ::= SEQUENCE { rrcState-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofRRCstate)) OF TriggerType-Choice- RRCstate-Item, ... } TriggerType-Choice-RRCstate-Item ::= SEQUENCE { stateChangedTo RRC-State, logicalOR LogicalOR OPTIONAL, ... } TriggerType-Choice-UEID ::= SEQUENCE { ueIDchange-ID INTEGER (1..512, ...), ... } TriggerType-Choice-L2state ::= SEQUENCE { associatedL2variables RANParameter-Testing, ... } TriggerType-Choice-UEcontext ::= SEQUENCE { associatedUECtxtVariables RANParameter-Testing, ... } TriggerType-Choice-L2MACschChg ::= SEQUENCE { l2MACschChgType L2MACschChgType-Choice, ... } L2MACschChgType-Choice ::= CHOICE { triggerType-Choice-MIMOandBFconfig TriggerType-Choice-MIMOandBFconfig, ... } TriggerType-Choice-MIMOandBFconfig ::= SEQUENCE { mIMOtransModeState ENUMERATED {enabled, disabled, ...}, ... } -- *************************************************** -- Action Definition OCTET STRING contents -- *************************************************** E2SM-RC-ActionDefinition ::= SEQUENCE { ric-Style-Type RIC-Style-Type, ric-actionDefinition-formats CHOICE { actionDefinition-Format1 E2SM-RC-ActionDefinition-Format1, actionDefinition-Format2 E2SM-RC-ActionDefinition-Format2, actionDefinition-Format3 E2SM-RC-ActionDefinition-Format3, ..., actionDefinition-Format4 E2SM-RC-ActionDefinition-Format4 }, ... } E2SM-RC-ActionDefinition-Format1 ::= SEQUENCE { ranP-ToBeReported-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofParametersToReport)) OF E2SM-RC- ActionDefinition-Format1-Item, ... } E2SM-RC-ActionDefinition-Format1-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ranParameter-ID RANParameter-ID, ..., ranParameter-Definition RANParameter-Definition OPTIONAL } E2SM-RC-ActionDefinition-Format2 ::= SEQUENCE { ric-PolicyConditions-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofPolicyConditions)) OF E2SM-RC- ActionDefinition-Format2-Item, ... } E2SM-RC-ActionDefinition-Format2-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ric-PolicyAction RIC-PolicyAction, ric-PolicyConditionDefinition RANParameter-Testing OPTIONAL, ..., ric-PolicyConditionID Ric-PolicyConditionID OPTIONAL } E2SM-RC-ActionDefinition-Format3 ::= SEQUENCE { ric-InsertIndication-ID RIC-InsertIndication-ID, ranP-InsertIndication-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofAssociatedRANParameters)) OF E2SM-RC- ActionDefinition-Format3-Item, ueID UEID OPTIONAL, ... } E2SM-RC-ActionDefinition-Format3-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ranParameter-ID RANParameter-ID, ..., ranParameter-Definition RANParameter-Definition OPTIONAL } E2SM-RC-ActionDefinition-Format4 ::= SEQUENCE { ric-InsertStyle-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1.. maxnoofRICStyles)) OF E2SM-RC- ActionDefinition-Format4-Style-Item, ueID UEID OPTIONAL, ... } E2SM-RC-ActionDefinition-Format4-Style-Item ::= SEQUENCE { requested-Insert-Style-Type RIC-Style-Type, ric-InsertIndication-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofInsertIndicationActions)) OF E2SM-RC- ActionDefinition-Format4-Indication-Item, ... } E2SM-RC-ActionDefinition-Format4-Indication-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ric-InsertIndication-ID RIC-InsertIndication-ID, ranP-InsertIndication-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofAssociatedRANParameters)) OF E2SM-RC- ActionDefinition-Format4-RANP-Item, ... } E2SM-RC-ActionDefinition-Format4-RANP-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ranParameter-ID RANParameter-ID, ..., ranParameter-Definition RANParameter-Definition OPTIONAL } -- *************************************************** -- Indication Header OCTET STRING contents -- *************************************************** E2SM-RC-IndicationHeader ::= SEQUENCE { ric-indicationHeader-formats CHOICE { indicationHeader-Format1 E2SM-RC-IndicationHeader-Format1, indicationHeader-Format2 E2SM-RC-IndicationHeader-Format2, ..., indicationHeader-Format3 E2SM-RC-IndicationHeader-Format3 }, ... } E2SM-RC-IndicationHeader-Format1 ::= SEQUENCE { ric-eventTriggerCondition-ID RIC-EventTriggerCondition-ID OPTIONAL, ... } E2SM-RC-IndicationHeader-Format2 ::= SEQUENCE { ueID UEID, ric-InsertStyle-Type RIC-Style-Type, ric-InsertIndication-ID RIC-InsertIndication-ID, ... } E2SM-RC-IndicationHeader-Format3 ::= SEQUENCE { ric-eventTriggerCondition-ID RIC-EventTriggerCondition-ID OPTIONAL, ueID UEID OPTIONAL, ... } -- *************************************************** -- Indication Message OCTET STRING contents -- *************************************************** E2SM-RC-IndicationMessage ::= SEQUENCE { ric-indicationMessage-formats CHOICE { indicationMessage-Format1 E2SM-RC-IndicationMessage-Format1, indicationMessage-Format2 E2SM-RC-IndicationMessage-Format2, indicationMessage-Format3 E2SM-RC-IndicationMessage-Format3, indicationMessage-Format4 NULL, indicationMessage-Format5 E2SM-RC-IndicationMessage-Format5, ..., indicationMessage-Format6 E2SM-RC-IndicationMessage-Format6 }, ... } E2SM-RC-IndicationMessage-Format1 ::= SEQUENCE { ranP-Reported-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofAssociatedRANParameters)) OF E2SM-RC- IndicationMessage-Format1-Item, ... } E2SM-RC-IndicationMessage-Format1-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ranParameter-ID RANParameter-ID, ranParameter-valueType RANParameter-ValueType, ... } E2SM-RC-IndicationMessage-Format2 ::= SEQUENCE { ueParameter-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofUEID)) OF E2SM-RC-IndicationMessage- Format2-Item, ... } E2SM-RC-IndicationMessage-Format2-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ueID UEID, ranP-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofAssociatedRANParameters)) OF E2SM-RC- IndicationMessage-Format2-RANParameter-Item, ... } E2SM-RC-IndicationMessage-Format2-RANParameter-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ranParameter-ID RANParameter-ID, ranParameter-valueType RANParameter-ValueType, ... } E2SM-RC-IndicationMessage-Format3 ::= SEQUENCE { cellInfo-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofCellID)) OF E2SM-RC-IndicationMessage- Format3-Item, ... } E2SM-RC-IndicationMessage-Format3-Item ::= SEQUENCE { cellGlobal-ID CGI, cellContextInfo OCTET STRING OPTIONAL, cellDeleted BOOLEAN OPTIONAL, neighbourRelation-Table NeighbourRelation-Info OPTIONAL, ..., mib OCTET STRING OPTIONAL, servingCellConfigCommon ServingCellConfigCommon OPTIONAL } ServingCellConfigCommon ::= SEQUENCE { ssbPositionsInBurst OCTET STRING, ssbPeriodicity ENUMERATED {ms5, ms10, ms20, ms40, ms80, ms160, ...}, ssbSubcarrierSpacing ENUMERATED {kHz15, kHz30, kHz60, kHz120, kHz240, kHz480-v1700, kHz960-v1700, ...}, ... } E2SM-RC-IndicationMessage-Format5 ::= SEQUENCE{ ranP-Requested-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(0..maxnoofAssociatedRANParameters)) OF E2SM-RC- IndicationMessage-Format5-Item, ... } E2SM-RC-IndicationMessage-Format5-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ranParameter-ID RANParameter-ID, ranParameter-valueType RANParameter-ValueType, ... } E2SM-RC-IndicationMessage-Format6 ::= SEQUENCE { ric-InsertStyle-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1.. maxnoofRICStyles)) OF E2SM-RC- IndicationMessage-Format6-Style-Item, ... } E2SM-RC-IndicationMessage-Format6-Style-Item ::= SEQUENCE { indicated-Insert-Style-Type RIC-Style-Type, ric-InsertIndication-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofInsertIndicationActions)) OF E2SM-RC- IndicationMessage-Format6-Indication-Item, ... } E2SM-RC-IndicationMessage-Format6-Indication-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ric-InsertIndication-ID RIC-InsertIndication-ID, ranP-InsertIndication-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(0..maxnoofAssociatedRANParameters)) OF E2SM-RC- IndicationMessage-Format6-RANP-Item , ... } E2SM-RC-IndicationMessage-Format6-RANP-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ranParameter-ID RANParameter-ID, ranParameter-valueType RANParameter-ValueType, ... } -- ************************************************** -- Call Process ID OCTET STRING contents -- ************************************************** E2SM-RC-CallProcessID ::= SEQUENCE { ric-callProcessID-formats CHOICE { callProcessID-Format1 E2SM-RC-CallProcessID-Format1, ... }, ... } E2SM-RC-CallProcessID-Format1 ::= SEQUENCE { ric-callProcess-ID RAN-CallProcess-ID, ... } -- *************************************************** -- Control Header OCTET STRING contents -- *************************************************** E2SM-RC-ControlHeader ::= SEQUENCE { ric-controlHeader-formats CHOICE { controlHeader-Format1 E2SM-RC-ControlHeader-Format1, ..., controlHeader-Format2 E2SM-RC-ControlHeader-Format2, controlHeader-Format3 E2SM-RC-ControlHeader-Format3, controlHeader-Format4 E2SM-RC-ControlHeader-Format4 }, ... } E2SM-RC-ControlHeader-Format1 ::= SEQUENCE { ueID UEID, ric-Style-Type RIC-Style-Type, ric-ControlAction-ID RIC-ControlAction-ID, ric-ControlDecision ENUMERATED {accept, reject, ...} OPTIONAL, ... } E2SM-RC-ControlHeader-Format2 ::= SEQUENCE { ueID UEID OPTIONAL, ric-ControlDecision ENUMERATED {accept, reject, ...} OPTIONAL, ... } E2SM-RC-ControlHeader-Format3 ::= SEQUENCE { ue-Group-ID UE-Group-ID, ue-Group-Definition UE-Group-Definition, ric-Style-Type RIC-Style-Type, ric-ControlAction-ID RIC-ControlAction-ID, ... } E2SM-RC-ControlHeader-Format4 ::= SEQUENCE { partial-ueID PartialUEID, ric-Style-Type RIC-Style-Type, ric-ControlAction-ID RIC-ControlAction-ID, ric-ControlDecision ENUMERATED {accept, reject, ...} OPTIONAL, ... } -- *************************************************** -- Control Message OCTET STRING contents -- *************************************************** E2SM-RC-ControlMessage ::= SEQUENCE { ric-controlMessage-formats CHOICE { controlMessage-Format1 E2SM-RC-ControlMessage-Format1, ..., controlMessage-Format2 E2SM-RC-ControlMessage-Format2, controlMessage-Format3 E2SM-RC-ControlMessage-Format3, controlMessage-Format4 E2SM-RC-ControlMessage-Format4, controlMessage-Format5 E2SM-RC-ControlMessage-Format5 }, ... } E2SM-RC-ControlMessage-Format1 ::= SEQUENCE { ranP-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(0..maxnoofAssociatedRANParameters)) OF E2SM-RC- ControlMessage-Format1-Item, ... } E2SM-RC-ControlMessage-Format1-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ranParameter-ID RANParameter-ID, ranParameter-valueType RANParameter-ValueType, ... } E2SM-RC-ControlMessage-Format2 ::= SEQUENCE { ric-ControlStyle-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1.. maxnoofRICStyles)) OF E2SM-RC- ControlMessage-Format2-Style-Item, ... } E2SM-RC-ControlMessage-Format2-Style-Item ::= SEQUENCE { indicated-Control-Style-Type RIC-Style-Type, ric-ControlAction-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofMulCtrlActions)) OF E2SM-RC- ControlMessage-Format2-ControlAction-Item, ... } E2SM-RC-ControlMessage-Format2-ControlAction-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ric-ControlAction-ID RIC-ControlAction-ID, ranP-List E2SM-RC-ControlMessage-Format1, ... } E2SM-RC-ControlMessage-Format3 ::= SEQUENCE { listOfEntityFilters SEQUENCE (SIZE(0..maxnoofAssociatedEntityFilters)) OF E2SM-RC- EntityFilter OPTIONAL, entityAgnosticControlRanP-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(0..maxnoofAssociatedRANParameters)) OF EntityAgnostic-ranP-ControlParameters OPTIONAL, ... } E2SM-RC-EntityFilter ::= SEQUENCE { entityFilter-ID EntityFilter-ID, entityFilter-Definition RANParameter-Testing, entitySpecificControlRanP-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofAssociatedRANParameters)) OF EntitySpecific-ranP-ControlParameters, ... } EntityAgnostic-ranP-ControlParameters ::= SEQUENCE { ranParameter-ID RANParameter-ID, ranParameter-valueType RANParameter-ValueType, ... } EntitySpecific-ranP-ControlParameters ::= SEQUENCE { ranParameter-ID RANParameter-ID, ranParameter-valueType RANParameter-ValueType, ... } E2SM-RC-ControlMessage-Format4 ::= SEQUENCE { ranP-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(0..maxnoofAssociatedRANParameters)) OF E2SM-RC- ControlMessage-Format4-Item, ... } E2SM-RC-ControlMessage-Format4-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ranParameter-ID RANParameter-ID, ranParameter-Definition RANParameter-Definition OPTIONAL, ... } E2SM-RC-ControlMessage-Format5 ::= NULL -- **************************************************** -- Control Outcome OCTET STRING contents -- **************************************************** E2SM-RC-ControlOutcome ::= SEQUENCE { ric-controlOutcome-formats CHOICE { controlOutcome-Format1 E2SM-RC-ControlOutcome-Format1, ..., controlOutcome-Format2 E2SM-RC-ControlOutcome-Format2, controlOutcome-Format3 E2SM-RC-ControlOutcome-Format3 }, ... } E2SM-RC-ControlOutcome-Format1 ::= SEQUENCE { ranP-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(0..maxnoofRANOutcomeParameters)) OF E2SM-RC- ControlOutcome-Format1-Item, ... } E2SM-RC-ControlOutcome-Format1-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ranParameter-ID RANParameter-ID, ranParameter-value RANParameter-Value, ... } E2SM-RC-ControlOutcome-Format2 ::= SEQUENCE { ric-ControlStyle-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1.. maxnoofRICStyles)) OF E2SM-RC- ControlOutcome-Format2-Style-Item, ... } E2SM-RC-ControlOutcome-Format2-Style-Item ::= SEQUENCE { indicated-Control-Style-Type RIC-Style-Type, ric-ControlOutcome-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofMulCtrlActions)) OF E2SM-RC- ControlOutcome-Format2-ControlOutcome-Item, ... } E2SM-RC-ControlOutcome-Format2-ControlOutcome-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ric-ControlAction-ID RIC-ControlAction-ID, ranP-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofAssociatedRANParameters)) OF E2SM-RC- ControlOutcome-Format2-RANP-Item, ... } E2SM-RC-ControlOutcome-Format2-RANP-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ranParameter-ID RANParameter-ID, ranParameter-value RANParameter-Value, ... } E2SM-RC-ControlOutcome-Format3 ::= SEQUENCE { ranP-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(0..maxnoofRANOutcomeParameters)) OF E2SM-RC- ControlOutcome-Format3-Item, ... } E2SM-RC-ControlOutcome-Format3-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ranParameter-ID RANParameter-ID, ranParameter-valueType RANParameter-ValueType, ... } -- *************************************************** -- Query Header OCTET STRING contents -- *************************************************** E2SM-RC-QueryHeader ::= SEQUENCE { ric-queryHeader-formats CHOICE { queryHeader-Format1 E2SM-RC-QueryHeader-Format1, ... }, ... } E2SM-RC-QueryHeader-Format1 ::= SEQUENCE { ric-Style-Type RIC-Style-Type, associatedE2NodeInfo RANParameter-Testing OPTIONAL, associatedUEInfo Associated-UE-Info OPTIONAL, ... } -- *************************************************** -- Query Definition OCTET STRING contents -- *************************************************** E2SM-RC-QueryDefinition ::= SEQUENCE { ric-queryDefinition-formats CHOICE { queryRequest-Format1 E2SM-RC-QueryDefinition-Format1, ... }, ... } E2SM-RC-QueryDefinition-Format1 ::= SEQUENCE { ranP-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofAssociatedRANParameters)) OF E2SM-RC- QueryDefinition-Format1-Item, ... } E2SM-RC-QueryDefinition-Format1-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ranParameter-ID RANParameter-ID, ranParameter-Definition RANParameter-Definition OPTIONAL, ... } -- *************************************************** -- Query Outcome OCTET STRING contents -- *************************************************** E2SM-RC-QueryOutcome ::= SEQUENCE { ric-queryOutcome-formats CHOICE { queryOutcome-Format1 E2SM-RC-QueryOutcome-Format1, queryOutcome-Format2 E2SM-RC-QueryOutcome-Format2, ... }, ... } E2SM-RC-QueryOutcome-Format1 ::= SEQUENCE { cellInfo-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofCellID)) OF E2SM-RC-QueryOutcome- Format1-ItemCell, ... } E2SM-RC-QueryOutcome-Format1-ItemCell ::= SEQUENCE { cellGlobal-ID CGI, ranP-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(0..maxnoofAssociatedRANParameters)) OF E2SM-RC- QueryOutcome-Format1-ItemParameters, neighbourRelation-Table NeighbourRelation-Info OPTIONAL, ..., servingCellConfigCommon ServingCellConfigCommon OPTIONAL } E2SM-RC-QueryOutcome-Format1-ItemParameters ::= SEQUENCE { ranParameter-ID RANParameter-ID, ranParameter-valueType RANParameter-ValueType OPTIONAL, ... } E2SM-RC-QueryOutcome-Format2 ::= SEQUENCE { ueInfo-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(0..maxnoofUEID)) OF E2SM-RC-QueryOutcome- Format2-ItemUE, ... } E2SM-RC-QueryOutcome-Format2-ItemUE::= SEQUENCE { ueID UEID, ranP-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(0..maxnoofAssociatedRANParameters)) OF E2SM-RC- QueryOutcome-Format2-ItemParameters, ueFilterID UE-Filter-ID OPTIONAL, ... } E2SM-RC-QueryOutcome-Format2-ItemParameters ::= SEQUENCE { ranParameter-ID RANParameter-ID, ranParameter-valueType RANParameter-ValueType OPTIONAL, ... } -- ************************************************************** -- RAN Function Definition IEs -- ************************************************************** E2SM-RC-RANFunctionDefinition ::= SEQUENCE{ ranFunction-Name RANfunction-Name, ranFunctionDefinition-EventTrigger RANFunctionDefinition-EventTrigger OPTIONAL, ranFunctionDefinition-Report RANFunctionDefinition-Report OPTIONAL, ranFunctionDefinition-Insert RANFunctionDefinition-Insert OPTIONAL, ranFunctionDefinition-Control RANFunctionDefinition-Control OPTIONAL, ranFunctionDefinition-Policy RANFunctionDefinition-Policy OPTIONAL, ..., ranFunctionDefinition-Query RANFunctionDefinition-Query OPTIONAL } ------------------------------- -- Event Trigger ------------------------------- RANFunctionDefinition-EventTrigger ::= SEQUENCE { ric-EventTriggerStyle-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofRICStyles)) OF RANFunctionDefinition- EventTrigger-Style-Item, ran-L2Parameters-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofAssociatedRANParameters)) OF L2Parameters-RANParameter-Item OPTIONAL, ran-CallProcessTypes-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofCallProcessTypes)) OF RANFunctionDefinition-EventTrigger-CallProcess-Item OPTIONAL, ran-UEIdentificationParameters-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofAssociatedRANParameters)) OF UEIdentification-RANParameter-Item OPTIONAL, ran-CellIdentificationParameters-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofAssociatedRANParameters)) OF CellIdentification-RANParameter-Item OPTIONAL, ... } RANFunctionDefinition-EventTrigger-Style-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ric-EventTriggerStyle-Type RIC-Style-Type, ric-EventTriggerStyle-Name RIC-Style-Name, ric-EventTriggerFormat-Type RIC-Format-Type, ... } L2Parameters-RANParameter-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ranParameter-ID RANParameter-ID, ranParameter-name RANParameter-Name, ..., ranParameter-Definition RANParameter-Definition OPTIONAL } UEIdentification-RANParameter-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ranParameter-ID RANParameter-ID, ranParameter-name RANParameter-Name, ..., ranParameter-Definition RANParameter-Definition OPTIONAL } CellIdentification-RANParameter-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ranParameter-ID RANParameter-ID, ranParameter-name RANParameter-Name, ..., ranParameter-Definition RANParameter-Definition OPTIONAL } RANFunctionDefinition-EventTrigger-CallProcess-Item ::= SEQUENCE { callProcessType-ID RIC-CallProcessType-ID, callProcessType-Name RIC-CallProcessType-Name, callProcessBreakpoints-List SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxnoofCallProcessBreakpoints)) OF RANFunctionDefinition-EventTrigger-Breakpoint-Item, ... } RANFunctionDefinition-EventTrigger-Breakpoint-Item ::= SEQUENCE { callProcessBreakpoint-ID RIC-CallProcessBreakpoint-ID, callProcessBreakpoint-Name RIC-CallProcessBreakpoint-Name, ran-CallProcessBreakpointParameters-List SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxnoofAssociatedRANParameters)) OF CallProcessBreakpoint-RANParameter-Item OPTIONAL, ... } CallProcessBreakpoint-RANParameter-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ranParameter-ID RANParameter-ID, ranParameter-name RANParameter-Name, ..., ranParameter-Definition RANParameter-Definition OPTIONAL } ------------------------------- -- Report ------------------------------- RANFunctionDefinition-Report ::= SEQUENCE { ric-ReportStyle-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofRICStyles)) OF RANFunctionDefinition- Report-Item, ... } RANFunctionDefinition-Report-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ric-ReportStyle-Type RIC-Style-Type, ric-ReportStyle-Name RIC-Style-Name, ric-SupportedEventTriggerStyle-Type RIC-Style-Type, ric-ReportActionFormat-Type RIC-Format-Type, ric-IndicationHeaderFormat-Type RIC-Format-Type, ric-IndicationMessageFormat-Type RIC-Format-Type, ran-ReportParameters-List SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxnoofAssociatedRANParameters)) OF Report-RANParameter-Item OPTIONAL, ... } Report-RANParameter-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ranParameter-ID RANParameter-ID, ranParameter-name RANParameter-Name, ..., ranParameter-Definition RANParameter-Definition OPTIONAL } ------------------------------- -- Insert ------------------------------- RANFunctionDefinition-Insert ::= SEQUENCE { ric-InsertStyle-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofRICStyles)) OF RANFunctionDefinition-Insert-Item, ... } RANFunctionDefinition-Insert-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ric-InsertStyle-Type RIC-Style-Type, ric-InsertStyle-Name RIC-Style-Name, ric-SupportedEventTriggerStyle-Type RIC-Style-Type, ric-ActionDefinitionFormat-Type RIC-Format-Type, ric-InsertIndication-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofInsertIndication)) OF RANFunctionDefinition-Insert-Indication-Item OPTIONAL, ric-IndicationHeaderFormat-Type RIC-Format-Type, ric-IndicationMessageFormat-Type RIC-Format-Type, ric-CallProcessIDFormat-Type RIC-Format-Type, ... } RANFunctionDefinition-Insert-Indication-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ric-InsertIndication-ID RIC-InsertIndication-ID, ric-InsertIndication-Name RIC-InsertIndication-Name, ran-InsertIndicationParameters-List SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxnoofAssociatedRANParameters)) OF InsertIndication-RANParameter-Item OPTIONAL, ... } InsertIndication-RANParameter-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ranParameter-ID RANParameter-ID, ranParameter-name RANParameter-Name, ..., ranParameter-Definition RANParameter-Definition OPTIONAL } ------------------------------- -- Control ------------------------------- RANFunctionDefinition-Control ::= SEQUENCE { ric-ControlStyle-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofRICStyles)) OF RANFunctionDefinition- Control-Item, ... } RANFunctionDefinition-Control-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ric-ControlStyle-Type RIC-Style-Type, ric-ControlStyle-Name RIC-Style-Name, ric-ControlAction-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofControlAction)) OF RANFunctionDefinition-Control-Action-Item OPTIONAL, ric-ControlHeaderFormat-Type RIC-Format-Type, ric-ControlMessageFormat-Type RIC-Format-Type, ric-CallProcessIDFormat-Type RIC-Format-Type OPTIONAL, ric-ControlOutcomeFormat-Type RIC-Format-Type, ran-ControlOutcomeParameters-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofRANOutcomeParameters)) OF ControlOutcome- RANParameter-Item OPTIONAL, ..., listOfAdditionalSupportedFormats ListOfAdditionalSupportedFormats OPTIONAL} ControlOutcome-RANParameter-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ranParameter-ID RANParameter-ID, ranParameter-name RANParameter-Name, ..., ranParameter-Definition RANParameter-Definition OPTIONAL } RANFunctionDefinition-Control-Action-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ric-ControlAction-ID RIC-ControlAction-ID, ric-ControlAction-Name RIC-ControlAction-Name, ran-ControlActionParameters-List SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxnoofAssociatedRANParameters)) OF ControlAction-RANParameter-Item OPTIONAL, ..., ueGroup-ControlAction-Supported ENUMERATED {true, false, ...} OPTIONAL } ControlAction-RANParameter-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ranParameter-ID RANParameter-ID, ranParameter-name RANParameter-Name, ..., ranParameter-Definition RANParameter-Definition OPTIONAL } ListOfAdditionalSupportedFormats ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(0..maxnoofFormatTypes)) OF AdditionalSupportedFormat AdditionalSupportedFormat ::= SEQUENCE { ric-ControlHeaderFormat-Type RIC-Format-Type, ric-ControlMessageFormat-Type RIC-Format-Type, ..., ric-ControlOutcomeFormat-Type RIC-Format-Type OPTIONAL, ric-ControlAction-ID RIC-ControlAction-ID OPTIONAL } ------------------------------- -- Policy ------------------------------- RANFunctionDefinition-Policy ::= SEQUENCE { ric-PolicyStyle-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofRICStyles)) OF RANFunctionDefinition- Policy-Item, ... } RANFunctionDefinition-Policy-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ric-PolicyStyle-Type RIC-Style-Type, ric-PolicyStyle-Name RIC-Style-Name, ric-SupportedEventTriggerStyle-Type RIC-Style-Type, ric-PolicyAction-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofPolicyAction)) OF RANFunctionDefinition- Policy-Action-Item OPTIONAL, ... } RANFunctionDefinition-Policy-Action-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ric-PolicyAction-ID RIC-ControlAction-ID, ric-PolicyAction-Name RIC-ControlAction-Name, ric-ActionDefinitionFormat-Type RIC-Format-Type, ran-PolicyActionParameters-List SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxnoofAssociatedRANParameters)) OF PolicyAction-RANParameter-Item OPTIONAL, ran-PolicyConditionParameters-List SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxnoofAssociatedRANParameters)) OF PolicyCondition-RANParameter-Item OPTIONAL, ... } PolicyAction-RANParameter-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ranParameter-ID RANParameter-ID, ranParameter-name RANParameter-Name, ..., ranParameter-Definition RANParameter-Definition OPTIONAL } PolicyCondition-RANParameter-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ranParameter-ID RANParameter-ID, ranParameter-name RANParameter-Name, ..., ranParameter-Definition RANParameter-Definition OPTIONAL } ------------------------------- -- Query ------------------------------- RANFunctionDefinition-Query ::= SEQUENCE { ric-QueryStyle-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofRICStyles)) OF RANFunctionDefinition- Query-Item, ... } RANFunctionDefinition-Query-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ric-QueryStyle-Type RIC-Style-Type, ric-QueryStyle-Name RIC-Style-Name, ric-QueryHeaderFormat-Type RIC-Format-Type, ric-QueryDefinitionFormat-Type RIC-Format-Type, ric-QueryOutcomeFormat-Type RIC-Format-Type, ran-QueryParameters-List SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxnoofAssociatedRANParameters)) OF Query- RANParameter-Item OPTIONAL, ... } Query-RANParameter-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ranParameter-ID RANParameter-ID, ranParameter-name RANParameter-Name, ranParameter-Definition RANParameter-Definition OPTIONAL, ... } E2SM-RC-ServiceLayerCause::= CHOICE { ricRequest CauseRICrequest, ricService CauseRICservice, protocol CauseProtocol, ... } CauseRICservice ::= ENUMERATED{ RIC-Event-Trigger-Style-Type-not-supported, RIC-Event-Trigger-Format-Type-not-supported, RAN-Parameter-ID-not-supported, Call-Process-Type-ID-not-supported, Call-Process-Breakpoint-ID-not-supported, RIC-Report-Style-Type-not-supported, Supported-RIC-Event-Trigger-Style-Type-not-supported, RIC-Action-Format-Type-not-supported, RIC-Indication-Header-Format-Type-not-supported, RIC-Indication-Message-Format-Type-not-supported, RIC-Insert-Style-Type-not-supported, Insert-Indication-ID-not-supported, RIC-Call-Process-ID-Format-Type-not-supported, RIC-Control-Style-Type-not-supported, Control-Action-ID-not-supported, RIC-Control-Header-Format-Type-not-supported, RIC-Control-Message-Format-Type-not-supported, RIC-Control-Outcome-Format-Type-not-supported, RIC-Policy-Style-Type-not-supported, Policy-Action-ID-not-supported, RIC-Query-Style-Type-not-supported, RIC-Query-Header-Format-Type-not-supported, RIC-Query-Definition-Format-Type-not-supported, RIC-Query-Outcome-Format-Type-not-supported, ... } CauseProtocol ::= ENUMERATED { transfer-syntax-error, abstract-syntax-error-reject, abstract-syntax-error-ignore-and-notify, message-not-compatible-with-receiver-state, semantic-error, abstract-syntax-error-falsely-constructed-message, unspecified, ... } END -- ASN1STOP

## 9.5 Message transfer syntax
E2SM-RC shall use the ASN.1 Basic Packed Encoding Rules (BASIC-PER) Aligned Variant as transfer syntax, as specified in ITU-T Rec. X.691 [8].

# 10 Handling of Unknown, Unforeseen and Erroneous
Protocol Data Clause 10 of TS 36.413 [13] is applicable for the purposes of the present document.


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG3.TS.RICARCH-R004-v07.00 (2).md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG3.TS.RICARCH-R004-v07.00 Technical Specification O-RAN Work Group 3 (Near-Real-time RAN Intelligent Near-RT RIC Architecture"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1], O-RAN WG1.OAD [10] and the following apply: Void.

## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the symbols given in [i.1] and the following apply: Void.

## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations [given in [i.1] and the following] apply: E2SM E2 Service Model IE Information Element LCM Life-Cycle Management MnS Management Service R-NIB Radio-Network Information Base SCTP Stream Control Transmission Protocol SDK Software Development Kit SDL Shared Data Layer UE-NIB UE-Network Information Base

# 4 General Principles
The general principles for Near-RT RIC architecture are as follows:
- The Near-RT RIC architecture and internal interfaces shall be open to support 3rd party xApps.

# 5 Near-RT RIC Architecture

## 5.1 Requirements

### 5.1.0 Overall Requirements
- [REQ-Overall-001] Void.

### 5.1.1 Platform Requirements
- [REQ-Platform-Generic-001] Near-RT RIC platform shall provide a service to expose up-to-date RAN information,
history of time-varying network state, as well as configurations related to E2 Nodes, Cells, Bearers, Flows, UEs, and the mapping between them;
- [REQ-Platform-Generic-002] Near-RT RIC shall provide AI/ML support for data pipelining, model management,
training and inference;
- [REQ-Platform-Generic-003] Near-RT RIC platform shall provide a messaging infrastructure;
- [REQ-Platform-Generic-004] Near-RT RIC platform shall provide O1 support for file management, tracing and
metrics collected from Near-RT RIC platform and xApps toward SMO;
- [REQ-Platform-Generic-005] Near-RT RIC platform shall comply with WG11 security requirements [22];
- [REQ-Platform-Generic-006] Near-RT RIC platform shall support mitigation of E2 related conflicts between xApps;
- [REQ-Platform-API-001] Near-RT RIC platform shall eexpose Near-RT RIC APIs;
- [REQ-Platform-API-002] The Near-RT RIC platform APIs shall be discoverable by xApp;
- [REQ-Platform-API-003] Void;
- [REQ-Platform-Generic-007] Void;
- [REQ-Platform-Generic-008] Near-RT RIC platform shall support subscription merging from multiple xApps;
- [REQ-Platform-Generic-009] Void;
- [REQ-Platform-Generic-010] Near-RT RIC platform shall be able to route A1 policy management messages to the
registered xApps based on A1 policy type;
- [REQ-Platform-Generic-011] Near-RT RIC platform shall control access of A1-EI types for xApps based on operator
policies;
- [REQ-Platform-Management-001] The Near-RT RIC platform shall support the capability over O1 interface to
expose the list of active alarms for the Near-RT RIC platform and hosted xApps;
- [REQ-Platform-Management-002] The Near-RT RIC platform shall have the capability to report, over the O1
interface, PM measurements associated with individual xApps;
- [REQ-Platform-Management-003] The Near-RT RIC platform shall support the capability over O1 interface to
manage individual xApp’s Administrative State.
- [REQ-Platform-Management-004] The Near-RT RIC platform shall support the capability over O1 interface to read
the current configuration of individual xApps;
- [REQ-Platform-Management-005] The Near-RT RIC platform shall support the capability over O1 interface to notify
of any change in the xApp configuration;
- [REQ-Platform-Management-006] The Near-RT RIC platform shall support the capability over O1 interface to notify
of an associated MOI creation;
- [REQ-Platform-Management-007] The Near-RT RIC platform shall support the capability over O1 interface to notify
of an associated MOI deletion;
- [REQ-Platform-Management-008] The Near-RT RIC platform shall support the capability over O1 interface to notify
of an associated MOI modification;
- [REQ-Platform-Management-009] The Near-RT RIC platform shall support the capability over O1 interface to notify
that there is a file available;
- [REQ-Platform-Management-010] The Near-RT RIC platform shall support PM data subscriptions for xApp
streamed data;
- [REQ-Platform-Management-011] The Near-RT RIC platform shall support the capability over O1 interface to
configure the xApp to produce specific PM data;
- [REQ-Platform-Management-012] The Near-RT RIC platform shall support the file transfer capability over O1
interface. 5.1.2 xApp Requirements
- [REQ-xApp-Generic-001] Void;
- [REQ-xApp-E2Related-001] Void;
- [REQ-xApp-E2Related-002] xApp shall use Near-RT RIC APIs to make use of the Information Elements (IEs) of
E2SMs that are associated with it;
- [REQ-xApp-E2Related-003] Void;
- [REQ-xApp-E2Related-004] Void;
- [REQ-xApp-Generic-002] xApp shall provide collected logging, tracing and metrics information to Near-RT RIC;
- [REQ-xApp-Descriptor-001] Void;
- [REQ-xApp-Descriptor-002] Void;
- [REQ-xApp-API-001] xApps shall communicate with Near-RT RIC platform via Near-RT RIC APIs;
- [REQ-xApp-API-002] xApp shall register the Near-RT RIC APIs it produces;
- [REQ-xApp-API-003] xApp shall be capable of discovering the Near-RT RIC APIs it consumes;
- [REQ-xApp-Management-001] xApp shall be configurable based on config received over O1 interface;
- [REQ-xApp-Management-002] xApp shall expose configuration options to activate handling of individual A1 policy
type when the xApp supports multiple A1 policy types.

### 5.1.3 Near-RT RIC API Requirements
- [REQ-API-Generic-001] Void;
- [REQ-API-Generic-002] Near-RT RIC APIs shall not adversely impact low-latency and high throughput operations
of Near-RT RIC. Specifically, the Near-RT RIC APIs shall support the Near-RT RIC control loop of execution time from 10 milliseconds to 1 second;
- [REQ-API-Generic-003] Near-RT RIC APIs shall be decoupled from specific implementation solutions, including a
Shared Data Layer (SDL) that works as an overlay for underlying databases and enables simplified data access;
- [REQ-API-Generic-004] Near-RT RIC APIs shall support an API repository/registry for the services provided by the
Near-RT RIC platform and/or xApps;
- [REQ-API-Generic-005] Near-RT RIC APIs shall provide means for xApps to discover the published APIs based on
the xApps’ needs;
- [REQ-API-Generic-006] Near-RT RIC APIs shall provide means to restrict xApps from discovering some published
APIs based on configured policies;
- [REQ-API-Generic-007] Near-RT RIC APIs shall aim to simplify the development of xApps and enable rapid
innovation;
- [REQ-API-Generic-008] Near-RT RIC APIs shall support xApp development in multiple programming languages
(e.g., C, C++, Python, Go);
- [REQ-API-Generic-009] Near-RT RIC APIs shall support xApp subscription management based on operators’
policies. An xApp may be restricted to interface with only a subset of E2 Nodes by such policies. Near-RT RIC shall be responsible for routing messages between this xApp and the subset of E2 Nodes;
- [REQ-API-Generic-010] Near-RT RIC APIs shall support mitigation of E2 related conflicts between xApps;
- [REQ-API-E2Related-001] Near-RT RIC APIs shall enable all xApps to directly use the information elements of
E2SMs with which they are associated;
- [REQ-API-E2Related-002] The Near-RT RIC E2 Related APIs shall expose event-triggered RAN information and
time-varying network state.
- [REQ-API-Management-001] The Near-RT RIC APIs for xApp management shall provide the capability to configure
the xApp;
- [REQ-API-Management-002] The Near-RT RIC APIs for xApp management shall provide the capability to change
the administrative state of the xApp;
- [REQ-API-Management-003] The Near-RT RIC APIs for xApp management shall provide the capability to read the
current configuration of the xApp;
- [REQ-API-Management-004] The Near-RT RIC APIs for xApp management shall provide the capability for the
xApp to notify the Management Function of any change in the xApp configuration;
- [REQ-API-Management-005] The Near-RT RIC APIs for xApp management shall provide the capability for the
xApp to notify the Management Function of an associated MOI Creation;
- [REQ-API-Management-006] The Near-RT RIC APIs for xApp management shall provide the capability for the
xApp to notify the Management Function of an associated MOI Deletion;
- [REQ-API-Management-007] The Near-RT RIC APIs for xApp management shall provide the capability for the
xApp to notify the Management Function of a fault detection;
- [REQ-API-Management-008] The Near-RT RIC APIs for xApp management shall provide the capability for the
Consumer (SMO) to fetch the list of Active Faults on the xApp;
- [REQ-API-Management-009] The Near-RT RIC APIs for xApp management shall provide the capability for the
xApp to notify the Management Function that there is a file available;
- [REQ-API-Management-010] The Near-RT RIC APIs for xApp management shall provide the capability for the
Management Function to configure the xApp to send streaming data;
- [REQ-API-Management-011] The Near-RT RIC APIs for xApp management shall provide the capability for the
Management Function to configure the xApp to collect specific PM data.

## 5.2 Overall Architecture Description
The overall O-RAN architecture specified in [10] describes the location and interfaces of Near-RT RIC, as well as possible deployment options.

# A Near-RT RIC is connected to only one Non-RT RIC.

# A Near-RT RIC is connected to one or more E2 Nodes as described in [2].
The RRM functional allocation between Near-RT RIC and E2 Node is described in [2].

# 6 Near-RT RIC Functional Description

## 6.1 General

# A Near-RT RIC is composed of a Near-RT RIC platform and one or more xApps. An overview in shown in Figure 6.1-1.
6.2.

## 6.2 Functionalities of the Near-RT RIC platform

### 6.2.1 Database and SDL

#### 6.2.1.0 Overview
The database and SDL functionalities enable the Near-RT RIC platform to maintain and expose RAN/UE information and other information required to support specific use cases.

#### 6.2.1.1 UE-NIB
This functionality enables the Near-RT RIC platform to maintain UE related information:
- Maintaining a list of UEs and associated data;
- Tracking and correlation of the UE identities associated with the connected E2 Nodes.
Such information may be generated and accessed by the Near-RT RIC platform or authorized xApps.

#### 6.2.1.2 R-NIB
This functionality enables the Near-RT RIC platform to maintain RAN related information:
- Maintaining the configurations and near real-time information relating to connected E2 Nodes and the mappings
between them. Such information may be generated and accessed by the Near-RT RIC platform or authorized xApps.

#### 6.2.1.3 SDL
This functionality enables the Near-RT RIC platform to provide SDL services for xApps, which can be used to subscribe to database notifications and to read, write and modify information stored on the database. UE-NIB, R-NIB and other use case specific information may be exposed using the SDL services. 6.2.2 xApp Subscription Management This functionality enables the Near-RT RIC platform to handle subscription requests from different xApps for E2 related data, and provide unified data distribution to xApps for those data:
- Managing subscriptions from xApps to E2 Nodes;
- Enforcing authorization of policies controlling xApp access to messages;
- Enabling merging of identical subscriptions from different xApps into a single subscription toward an E2 Node;
- Enabling audit of existing subscriptions and initiating associated corrective actions.

### 6.2.3 Conflict Mitigation
This functionality enables the Near-RT RIC platform to detect and resolve potentially overlapping or conflicting requests from multiple xApps. In the context of Near-RT RIC, Conflict Mitigation is about addressing conflicting interactions between different xApps. An application will typically change one or more parameters with the objective of optimizing a specific metric. Conflict Mitigation is necessary because xApps objectives may be chosen/configured such that they result in conflicting actions.

### 6.2.4 Messaging Infrastructure
This functionality enables the Near-RT RIC platform with low-latency message delivery between Near-RT RIC internal endpoints.
- It supports registration/discovery/deletion of endpoints:
- Registration: Endpoints register themselves to the messaging infrastructure;
- Discovery: Endpoints are discovered by the messaging infrastructure initially and registered to the messaging
infrastructure;
- Deletion: Endpoints are deleted once they are not used anymore.
- It provides the following APIs:
- An API for sending messages to the messaging infrastructure;
- An API for receiving messages from the messaging infrastructure.
- It supports multiple messaging modes, e.g., point-to-point mode (e.g., message exchange among endpoints),
publish/subscribe mode (e.g., real-time data dispatching from E2 termination to multiple subscriber xApps);
- It provides message routing, namely according to the message routing information, messages can be dispatched to
different endpoints;
- It supports message robustness to avoid data loss during a messaging infrastructure outage/restart or to release
resources from the messaging infrastructure once a message is outdated.

### 6.2.5 Security
The security functionality given in this clause only applies to Near-RT RIC. One of the targets is to prevent malicious xApps from abusing radio network information (e.g., exporting to unauthorized external systems) and/or control capabilities over RAN functions. The security requirements for the 3GPP LTE eNB is defined in [6] and for the 5G NR gNB in [7].
> NOTE: The description of security functionalities is not included in the release.

### 6.2.6 Management

#### 6.2.6.1 Void

#### 6.2.6.2 OAM Management of Near-RT RIC
OAM management consists of fault, configuration, accounting, performance, file, security and other management plane services. OAM management follows O1 related management aspects defined in [4]. To support OAM management services, Near-RT RIC platform provides the following capabilities:
- Fault Management: The Near-RT RIC platform provides Near-RT RIC Fault Supervision MnS over the O1 interface
as defined in [4];
- Configuration management: The Near-RT RIC platform provides Near-RT RIC Provisioning MnS over the O1
interface as defined in [4];
- Logging: logging is to capture information needed to operate, troubleshoot and report on the performance of the Near-
RT RIC platform and its constituent components. Log records may be viewed and consumed directly by users and systems, indexed and loaded into a data storage, and used to compute metrics and generate reports. Near-RT RIC components log events according to a common logging format. Different logs can be generated (e.g., audit log, metrics log, error log and debug log).
- Tracing: tracing mechanisms are needed to monitor the transactions or a workflow. An example subscription
workflow can be broken into two traces namely, a subscription request trace followed by a response trace. Individual traces can be analysed to understand timing latencies as the workflow traverses a particular Near-RT RIC component.
- Metrics collection: metrics for performance and fault management specific to each xApp logic and other internal
functionalities are collected and published for authorized consumer (e.g., SMO). A metrics collection mechanism is needed to collect and report metrics.

### 6.2.7 Interface Termination

#### 6.2.7.1 E2 Termination
This functionality enables termination of E2 interface with the following:
- Terminating SCTP connection from each E2 Node;
- Routing messages from xApps through the SCTP connection to an E2 Node;
- Decoding the payload of an incoming ASN.1 message enough to determine message type;
- Handling incoming E2 messages related to E2 connectivity;
- Receiving and responding to the E2 Setup Request from an E2 Node;
- Notifying xApps of the list of RAN functions supported by an E2 Node based on information derived from the E2
Setup and RIC Service Update procedures [3];
- Notifying the newly connected E2 Node of the list of accepted functions.

#### 6.2.7.2 A1 Termination
This functionality enables termination of A1 interface with the following:
- Providing a generic API by means of which Near-RT RIC can receive and send messages via A1 interface [8]. These
include, e.g., A1 policies and enrichment information received from Non-RT RIC, or A1 policy feedback sent towards Non-RT RIC.
- Sending A1 policy that is set or updated by the Non-RT RIC to suitable xApp(s) based on a list of candidate xApp(s)
provided by xApp Repository functionality.

#### 6.2.7.3 O1 Termination
This functionality enables termination of O1 interface. An implementation of O1 Termination at Near-RT RIC depends on the deployment options described in [4], i.e., when Near- RT RIC is modelled as a stand-alone Managed Element. Near-RT RIC platform communicates with SMO via O1 interface and exposes O1-related management services [5] from Near- RT RIC. For the O1 management services (MnS) shown below, Near-RT RIC platform is the MnS producer and SMO is the MnS consumer:
- Exposing provisioning management services from Near-RT RIC to O1 provisioning management service consumer;
- Translating O1 management services to Near-RT RIC internal APIs;
- Exposing FM services to report faults and events from Near-RT RIC to O1 FM service consumer;
- Exposing PM services to report bulk and real-time PM data from Near-RT RIC to O1 PM service consumer;
- Exposing file management services to download ML files, software files, etc. and upload log/trace files to/from file
MnS consumer;
- Exposing communication surveillance services to O1 communication surveillance service consumer.

#### 6.2.7.4 Y1 Termination
This functionality enables termination of Y1 interface. It provides support for exposing RAN analytics information from Near-RT RIC to Y1 consumers.

### 6.2.8 API Enablement
In the context of Near-RT RIC, the Near-RT RIC APIs can be categorized based on the interaction with the Near-RT RIC platform and can be related to E2-related services, A1-related services, Management related services, and SDL services. This functionality provides support for registration, discovery and consumption of Near-RT RIC APIs within the Near-RT RIC scope. In particular, the API enablement services include:
- Repository / Registry services for the Near-RT RIC APIs;
- Services that allow discovery of the registered Near-RT RIC APIs;
- Services to authenticate xApps for use of the Near-RT RIC APIs;
- Services that enable generic subscription and event notification;
- Means to avoid compatibility clashes between xApps and the services they access.
The API enablement services can be accessed by the xApps via one or more enablement APIs.
> NOTE: The provided enablement APIs may need to consider the level of trust related to the xApp (e.g., 3rd party xApp,
RIC-owned xApp, etc.).

### 6.2.9 AI/ML Support

#### 6.2.9.0 Introduction
The AI/ML support functionality enables the Near-RT RIC platform with data pipelining, model management, training and inference, which constitute complete AI/ML workflow support for xApps to implement AI/ML algorithms. xApps may use none, part, or all of this functionality, depending on its design.

#### 6.2.9.1 Data Pipelining
This functionality enables the Near-RT RIC platform with data ingestion and preparation for xApps. The input may include E2 node data collected over E2 interface, enrichment information over A1 interface, information from xApps, and data retrieved from the Near-RT RIC database through the messaging infrastructure. The output is data sets that are ready to be consumed by AI/ML Model. The output may be stored in an xApp specific space (e.g., a dedicated space in database) or used as input for inference (see clause 6.2.9.3). 6.2.9.1A Model Management The Near-RT RIC platform offers storage, retrieval, and version control of AI/ML models for xApps. The Near-RT RIC platform may store the model in an xApp specific space (e.g., a dedicated space in database), and tracks the version change of the model if the model is retrained or updated later.

#### 6.2.9.2 Training
This functionality enables training of AI/ML Models for xApps within Near-RT RIC [i.2]. The Near-RT RIC platform provides generic and use case-independent capabilities to AI/ML-based xApps that may be useful to multiple use cases. The associated AI/ML models are managed by the Near-RT RIC platform (see clause 6.2.9.1A). The input data for training may come from an xApp specific space (e.g., dedicated space in database).

#### 6.2.9.3 Inference
Near-RT RIC platform offers inference of AI/ML Models for xApps. The associated AI/ML models are managed by the Near- RT RIC platform (see clause 6.2.9.1A). The input data may be the output of data pipelining, or come from an xApp specific space (e.g., a dedicated space in database). The inferred result may be provided to the requesting xApp or stored in an xApp specific space (e.g., a dedicated space in database). 6.2.10 xApp Repository Function This functionality enables the Near-RT RIC platform with the following:
- Maintaining a list of candidate xApp(s) to A1 Termination for sending A1 policy or policy update to suitable xApp(s)
based on policy type and operator policies;
- Maintaining the policy types supported in Near-RT RIC. The supported policy types are based on policy types
supported by the registered xApps and operator policies;
- Performing xApp access control to requested A1-EI type based on operator policies.
6.3 xApps The xApps collaborate with the Near-RT RIC platform to support various specialized use cases. The xApps may collaborate with Near-RT RIC platform to support mitigation of E2 related conflicts. xApp may be used to enhance the RRM capability in RAN. xApp may leverage zero, one or more E2SMs. Upon registration to the Near-RT RIC platform, an xApp informs the Near-RT RIC platform of its OAM and control information to enable relevant functionalities.
> NOTE: The LCM of xApp is performed by SMO and O-Cloud as specified in [4] and [20].
6A Services of Near-RT RIC platform and xApps 6A.1 General Among the Near-RT RIC platform and the xApps, their capabilities are exposed as services. Both the Near-RT RIC platform and an xApp can be a service producer and/or a service consumer. Those services can be leveraged via the Near-RT RIC APIs described in clause 7. The interactions between service consumer and service producer are generalized that the service requests are sent from the service consumer and responses and notifications are sent from the service producer. It is the service producer that handles the resources on which the service consumer performs operations. The terms service consumer and service producer thus, do not refer to the direction of the data transfer over the Near-RT RIC APIs. A service-based representation is illustrated in Figure 6A.1-1. The services can be classified into the following categories, in regard to the relevant functionalities:
- A1 related services;
- E2 related services;
- Management related services;
- SDL services;
- Enablement services;
- AI/ML workflow services.
The services provided by the Near-RT RIC platform and the xApps are described in clause 6A.2 and 6A.3, respectively. 6A.2 Services provided by Near-RT RIC platform 6A.2.1 Overview An overview of the services that can be provided by the Near-RT RIC platform is shown in Table 6A.2.1-1: Service Category Service Name Description A1 related services A1 EI service This service enables the service consumer to create/update/delete/audit subscriptions to A1 Enrichment Information. It also enables the service consumer to query the Near-RT RIC platform of the supported A1 EI type(s) and the created A1 EI job(s). E2 related services E2 Subscription service This service enables the service consumer to create/delete/modify/audit an E2 subscription related to applicable RIC services [2] with Near-RT RIC platform. The subscribed information is delivered with E2 Indication service. This service also enables the service consumer to be queried or notified of deleting an existing E2 subscription. (NOTE 1) E2 Indication service This service enables the service consumer to receive subscribed E2 information associated with an E2 subscription. E2 Control service This service enables the service consumer to access RIC service “CONTROL” [2] with the Near-RT RIC platform. E2 Guidance service This service enables the service consumer to acquire E2 guidance information from the Near-RT RIC platform to avoid conflicts described in clause 6.2.3. E2 Query service This service enables the service consumer to access RIC service “QUERY” [2] with the Near-RT RIC platform. Management related xApp Registration service This service enables service consumer to services register/deregister itself with the Near-RT RIC platform. SDL services SDL Information service This service enables the service consumer to store and retrieve data while hiding details such as type and location of database, management operations of database layer such as high availability, scaling, load-balancing. This service supports defined data structures used to provide E2 Node related information. Enablement services Enabl Registration service This service enables service consumer to register its service. Enabl Discovery service This service enables service consumer to discover services registered by the Near-RT RIC platform and the xApps. Enabl Event service This service enables the service consumer to create/delete subscriptions to Near-RT RIC API related events. It also enables notifications of the subscribed Near-RT RIC API related events. Service Category Service Name Description AI/ML workflow services Data Pipelining service This service enables the service consumer to ingest and prepare data for AI/ML model training and/or inference with the Near-RT RIC platform. AI/ML Model Management and This service enables the service consumer to store Exposure service and, retrieve AI/ML models with the Near-RT RIC platform for inference and/or training, The service also supports exposure of shared AI/ML models. AI/ML Training service This service enables the service consumer to train AI/ML models with the Near-RT RIC platform. AI/ML Inference service This service enables the service consumer to perform AI/ML inference with the Near-RT RIC platform.
> NOTE 1: Support for E2 interface Global Procedures (E2 SETUP, RIC Service Update, etc.) is described in clause
9.5.8 as use cases of SDL services. 6A.2.2 A1 related services 6A.2.2.1 A1 EI service The A1 EI service supports the following operations in Table 6A.2.2.1-1. Service Name Service Operations Operation Known Reference Semantic Consumer(s) A1 EI service A1 EI query Request/Response xApp 9.2.3.1 A1 EI subscription setup Request/Response xApp 9.2.3.2 A1 EI subscription update Request/Response xApp 9.2.3.3 A1 EI subscription delete Request/Response xApp 9.2.3.4 A1 EI delivery Notify xApp 9.2.3.5 6A.2.3 E2 related services 6A.2.3.1 E2 Subscription service The E2 Subscription service supports the following operations in Table 6A.2.3.1-1. Service Name Service Operations Operation Known Reference Semantic Consumer(s) E2 Subscription E2 Subscription Request/Response xApp 9.3.2.1 service E2 Subscription Delete Request/Response xApp 9.3.2.2 E2 Subscription Delete Request/Response xApp 9.3.2.2A Query E2 Subscription Delete Notify xApp 9.3.2.2A Notification E2 Subscription Audit Request/Response xApp 9.3.2.5 E2 Subscription Request/Response xApp 9.3.2.7 Modification 6A.2.3.2 E2 Indication service The E2 Indication service supports the following operations in Table 6A.2.3.2-1. Service Name Service Operations Operation Known Reference Semantic Consumer(s) E2 Indication E2 Indication Notify xApp 9.3.2.3 service 6A.2.3.3 E2 Control service The E2 Control service supports the following operations in Table 6A.2.3.3-1. Service Name Service Operations Operation Known Reference Semantic Consumer(s) E2 Control service E2 Control Request/Response xApp 9.3.2.4 6A.2.3.4 E2 Guidance service The E2 Guidance service supports the following operations in Table 6A.2.3.4-1. Service Name Service Operations Operation Known Reference Semantic Consumer(s) E2 Guidance E2 Guidance Request/Response xApp 9.3.3.1 service E2 Guidance Modification Notify xApp 9.3.3.5 6A.2.3.5 E2 Query service The E2 Query service supports the following operations in Table 6A.2.3.5-1. Service Name Service Operations Operation Known Reference Semantic Consumer(s) E2 Query service E2 Query Request/Response xApp 9.3.2.6 6A.2.4 Management related services 6A.2.4.1 xApp Registration service The xApp Registration service supports the following operations in Table 6A.2.4.1-1. Service Name Service Operations Operation Known Reference Semantic Consumer(s) xApp Registration xApp Registration Request/Response xApp 9.4.1 service xApp Deregistration Request/Response xApp 9.4.2 6A.2.5 SDL services 6A.2.5.1 SDL Information service The SDL Information service supports the following operations in Table 6A.2.5.1-1. Service Name Service Operations Operation Known Reference Semantic Consumer(s) SDL Information SDL Client Registration Request/Response xApp 9.5.1 service SDL Client Deregistration Request/Response xApp 9.5.2 SDL Information Fetch Request/Response xApp 9.5.3 SDL Subscription Request/Response xApp 9.5.4, 9.5.7 Information SDL Information Update Notify xApp 9.5.4 Notify SDL Information Push Notify xApp 9.5.7 SDL Information Store Request/Response xApp 9.5.5 SDL Information Modify Request/Response xApp 9.5.6 6A.2.6 Enablement services 6A.2.6.1 Enabl Registration service The Enabl Registration service supports the following operations in Table 6A.2.6.1-1. Service Name Service Operations Operation Known Reference Semantic Consumer(s) Enabl Registration API Registration Request/Response xApp 9.6.3.1 service API Registration Update Request/Response xApp 9.6.3.2 API Deregistration Request/Response xApp 9.6.3.3 6A.2.6.2 Enabl Discovery service The Enabl Discovery service supports the following operations in Table 6A.2.6.2-1. Service Name Service Operations Operation Known Reference Semantic Consumer(s) Enabl Discovery API Discovery Request/Response xApp 9.6.1 service 6A.2.6.3 Enabl Events service The Enabl Events service supports the following operations in Table 6A.2.6.3-1. Service Name Service Operations Operation Known Reference Semantic Consumer(s) Enabl Events API Event Subscription Request/Response xApp 9.6.2.1 service API Event Subscription Request/Response xApp 9.6.2.2 Delete API Event Notification Notify xApp 9.6.2.3 6A.2.7 AI/ML services 6A.2.7.1 Data Pipelining service The Data Pipelining service supports the following operations in Table 6A.2.7.1-1. List of Data Semantic Consumer(s) Pipelining service operationsServic e Name Data Pipelining Data Pipelining Job Setup Request/Response xApp 9.7.1.1 service Data Pipelining Job Update Request/Response xApp 9.7.1.2 Data Pipelining Job Delete Request/Response xApp 9.7.1.3 Data Pipelining Job Query Request/Response xApp 9.7.1.4 Data Pipelining Request Request/Response xApp 9.7.1.5 Data Pipelining Result Delivery Notify xApp 9.7.1.5 6A.2.7.2 Training service The Training service supports the following operations in Table 6A.2.7.2-1. Service Name Service Operations Operation Known Reference Semantic Consumer(s) Training Service Training Job Setup Request/Response xApp 9.7.2.1 Training Job Delete Request/Response xApp 9.7.2.2 Training Job Query Request/Response xApp 9.7.2.3 Training Request Request/Response xApp 9.7.2.4 Training Result Delivery Notify xApp 9.7.2.4 6A.2.7.3 Inference service The Inference service supports the following operations in Table 6A.2.7.3-1. Service Name Service Operations Operation Known Reference Semantic Consumer(s) Inference Service Inference Job Setup Request/Response xApp 9.7.3.1 Inference Job Update Request/Response xApp 9.7.3.2 Inference Job Delete Request/Response xApp 9.7.3.3 Inference Job Query Request/Response xApp 9.7.3.4 Inference Request Request/Response xApp 9.7.3.5 Inference Result Delivery Notify xApp 9.7.3.5 6A.2.7.4 Model Management and Exposure service Service Name Service Operations Operation Known Reference Semantic Consumer(s) Model Model Store Request/Response xApp 9.7.4.1 Management and Stored Model Query Request/Response xApp 9.7.4.2 Exposure Service Model Retrieve Request/Response xApp 9.7.4.3 Model Delete Request/Response xApp 9.7.4.4 6A.3 Services provided by xApps 6A.3.1 Overview An overview of the services that can be provided by the xApps is shown in Table 6A.3.1-1: Service Category Service Name Description A1 related services A1 Policy service This service enables the service consumer to create/update/delete/query an A1 policy object [8] for the xApp, and to be notified of the status of the A1 policy object. It also enables the service consumer to query the xApp about the supported A1 policy type(s). E2 related services E2 Conflict Mitigation Assistance The service enables the service consumer to obtain service assistance from the xApp for conflict mitigation. Management related xApp Configuration service This service enables the service consumer to services configure the xApp. (NOTE 1) xApp PM service This service enables the service consumer to collect PM related information from the xApp. xApp FM service This service enables the service consumer to collect faults and events information from the xApp. SDL services xApp data sharing service The service enables the service consumer to collect specific data shared by the xApp.
> NOTE 1: Trace related service is not specified in the present document.
6A.3.2 A1 related services 6A.3.2.1 A1 Policy service The A1 Policy service supports the following operations in Table 6A.3.2.1-1. Service Name Service Operations Operation Known Reference Semantic Consumer(s) A1 Policy service A1 Policy Setup Request/Response Near-RT RIC 9.2.2.1 platform A1 Policy Update Request/Response Near-RT RIC 9.2.2.2 platform A1 Policy Delete Request/Response Near-RT RIC 9.2.2.3 platform A1 Policy Query Request/Response Near-RT RIC 9.2.2.4 platform A1 Policy Status Update Notify Near-RT RIC 9.2.2.5 platform 6A.3.3 E2 related services 6A.3.3.1 E2 Conflict mitigation service Service Name Service Operations Operation Known Reference Semantic Consumer(s) E2 Conflict E2 Conflict Mitigation Request/Response Near-RT RIC 9.3.3.6 Mitigation Assistance platform Assistance Service 6A.3.4 Management related services 6A.3.4.1 xApp Configuration service void 6A.3.4.3 xApp PM service void 6A.3.4.4 xApp FM service void 6A.3.5 SDL services 6A.3.5.1 xApp data sharing service The xApp data sharing service supports the following operations in Table 6A.3.5.1-1. Service Name Service Operations Operation Known Reference Semantic Consumer(s) xApp Data xApp Shared Data Fetch Request/Response Near-RT RIC 9.5.7A Sharing service platform, xApp xApp Shared Data Request/Response Near-RT RIC 9.5.7B.1 Subscription platform, xApp xApp Shared Data Request/Response Near-RT RIC 9.5.7B.2 Subscription Delete platform, xApp xApp Shared Data Push Notify Near-RT RIC 9.5.7B.1 platform, xApp 6A.3.6 Enablement services In the current release of specification, no Enablement services can be provided by the xApp.

# 7 Near-RT RIC APIs

## 7.1 Overall Description

### 7.1.1 Introduction
The Near-RT RIC APIs are a collection of well-defined interfaces providing Near-RT RIC platform and xApp services. These APIs need to explicitly define the possible types of information flows and data models. The Near-RT RIC APIs are essential to host 3rd party xApps in an inter-operable way on different Near-RT RIC platforms. Near-RT RIC provides the following Near-RT RIC APIs for xApps:
- A1 related APIs: APIs to access A1 related services;
- E2 related APIs: APIs to access E2 related services;
- Management APIs: APIs to access management related services;
- SDL APIs: APIs to access Shared Data Layer related services;
- Enablement APIs: APIs to access enablement services;
- AI/ML workflow APIs: APIs to access AI/ML workflow services.

### 7.1.2 Near-RT RIC API approaches
Near-RT RIC APIs may be implemented using two approaches:
- Network API approach: Each relevant Near-RT RIC endpoint exposes a network endpoint and specifies a particular
data encoding protocol and a network transport protocol that should be used to communicate with it. A different network API may be specified for each Near-RT RIC API reflecting a trade-off between different service requirements.
- SDK approach: The Near-RT RIC vendor provides an SDK (software development kit). This SDK is a software
library which handles all connection management and exposes a simple API for the xApp to interact with the Near- RT RIC. The interface between the SDK library embedded in the xApp and the Near-RT RIC Platform may be either vendor proprietary or aligned to the specified Network API. Both approaches use similar methodologies of interaction with Near-RT RIC as defined in clauses 6A and 9. Furthermore, the detailed messages and IEs for each Near-RT RIC API that the xApp will use largely stay the same in the two approaches. These two approaches are presented in figure 7.1.2-1 for the Network API approach and figure 7.1.2-2 for the SDK approach. Both approaches assume that the Near-RT RIC platform provides appropriate support services. These services, labelled “Network API support” and “SDK support” respectively in figures 7.1.2-1 and 7.1.2-2, may be integrated into other platform services (i.e., A1 Termination may provide the support services for A1 related APIs) or implemented as independent services.

### 7.1.3 Network API approach

# A Network API is defined in terms of a protocol stack including the definition:
- An application layer protocol used to carry a set of messages which normally contain multiple Information Elements
(IEs);
- A data encoding protocol (ASN.1, Protobuf, JSON, etc.);
- A network transport protocol (SCTP, HTTPS, gRPC, etc.);
- Associated security and encryption methods.
For the Network API approach for Near-RT RIC APIs, it is expected that each case listed in clause 7.1.1 may require a unique protocol stack definition which offers an optimal solution balancing the trade-offs between service requirements, Near-RT RIC platform complexity and xApp implementation overheads. Furthermore, each Network API will require a unique endpoint that the API consumer will need to discover using a combination of configuration and use of the Enablement APIs (also see clause 6A.2.6). Open O-RAN specified Network APIs for each case listed in clause 7.1.1 are defined in terms of the corresponding protocol stack.

### 7.1.4 SDK approach
An SDK (Software Development Kit) is defined as a set of software tools/libraries provided by platform vendors which helps developers in building applications on the platform. An SDK simplifies application development by:
- Providing simple APIs to trigger commonly used functionality;
- Handling routine management tasks “under the hood”;
- Providing tools for debugging, building, testing applications.
For the SDK approach for Near-RT RIC APIs, it is expected that a given Near-RT RIC vendor offers an SDK library that provides a language specific implementation of each case listed in clause 7.1.1. This provides a common interface to interact with all the Near-RT RIC endpoints as well as other xApps. The Near-RT RIC SDK library functionality would include:
- Discovery of relevant endpoints for and connection to Near-RT RIC platform services and other xApps.
- Handles all connection management of the xApp with all relevant Near-RT RIC platform endpoints as well as other
xApps. This includes:
- Authentication;
- Registration;
- Encryption/Decryption (if required);
- Failovers if any endpoint crashes.
- Presents a simple API as function definitions for sending/receiving messages;
- Provides tools for xApp debugging, building and testing.
These services would be provided by the SDK library and so would not be exposed to the business logic within an xApp. Open O-RAN specified SDK APIs for each case listed in clause 7.1.1 would need to be defined for each supported programming language. The actual protocol stack implemented by the SDK library and used to communicate with the SDK support service in the Near- RT RIC platform may be either based on the Network APIs or left not specified and so may be vendor proprietary.

### 7.1.5 Near-RT RIC API support options
The two approaches to Near-RT RIC APIs are not necessarily mutually exclusive. For example, an xApp designed to support the Network API approach may be implemented using either an internal SDK library that provides the Network API interface or a direct implementation the Network API interface. Both of these cases are presented in figure 7.1.5-1. SDK APIs Likewise, a Near-RT RIC Platform may be designed to support both the Network API approach and the SDK approach and so xApps implemented using either approach may access platform services. Both of these cases are presented in figure 7.1.5-2.

## 7.2 Void

## 7.3 Void

## 7.4 Void

## 7.5 Void

## 7.6 Void

## 7.7 Void

# 8 External Interfaces of Near-RT RIC

## 8.1 E2 Interface
O-RAN-WG3.E2GAP [2] specifies E2 interface general aspects and principles. O-RAN-WG3.E2AP [3] specifies E2 interface application protocols.

## 8.2 A1 Interface
O-RAN-WG2.A1.GA&P [8] specifies A1 interface general aspects and principles. O-RAN-WG2.A1AP [9] specifies A1 interface application protocols.

## 8.3 O1 Interface
An implementation of O1 interface at Near-RT RIC depends on the deployment options described in [4], i.e., when Near-RT RIC is modelled as a stand-alone Managed Element. O-RAN-WG1.O1-Interface [5] specifies O1 interface related aspects.

## 8.4 Y1 Interface
Y1 interface allows the Y1 consumers to subscribe to or request the RAN analytics information service(s) provided by Near- RT RIC [10].
> NOTE: The Stage 2 and Stage 3 aspects of Y1 interface are not addressed in the present document.

# 9 Near-RT RIC API Procedures

## 9.1 Disclaimer
Procedures described in this clause assume the Near-RT RIC platform contains the functionalities listed in clause 6.2. API endpoints associated with the platform functionalities may vary depending on implementation.

## 9.2 A1 Related API Procedures

### 9.2.1 Introduction
The following procedures are described in this clause: 1) Policy Management Service. In this case the A1 Service Producer role (A1AP [9] clause 3.1) resides in the Near-RT RIC. a) Non-RT RIC (A1 Service Consumer) originated procedures:
- Create Single Policy procedure (A1AP [9] clause 3.2.2.2.2) using A1 Related API: A1 Policy Setup (request,
result);
- Query Single Policy procedure (A1AP [9] clause 3.2.2.3.2) using A1 Related API: A1 Policy Query (request,
result);
- Query All Policy Identifiers procedure (A1AP [9] clause 3.2.2.3.5) using A1 Related API: A1 Policy Query
(request, result);
- Query Policy Status procedure (A1AP [9] clause 3.2.2.3.6) using A1 Related API: A1 Policy Query (request,
result);
- Update Single Policy procedure (A1AP [9] clause 3.2.2.4.2) using A1 Related API: A1 Policy Update (request,
result);
- Delete Single Policy procedure (A1AP [9] clause 3.2.2.5.2) using A1 Related API: A1 Policy Delete (request,
result);
- Query All Policy Type Identifiers procedure (A1AP [9] clause 3.2.2.7.2) using A1 Related API: A1 Policy Query
(request, result);
- Query Single Policy Type procedure (A1AP [9] clause 3.2.2.7.3) using A1 Related API: A1 Policy Query (request,
result). b) Near-RT RIC (A1 Service Producer) originated procedures:
- Policy Status Update procedure (A1AP [9] clause 3.2.2.6.2) using A1 Related API: A1 Policy Status (status, ack).
2) A1AP Enrichment Information (EI) Service In this case the A1 Service Producer role (A1AP [9] clause 3.1) resides in the Non-RT RIC. a) Near-RT RIC (A1 Service Consumer) originated procedures:
- Query EI Type Identifiers procedure (A1AP [9] clause 3.3.2.2.2) using A1 Related API: A1 EI Query (request,
result);
- Query EI Type procedure (A1AP [9] clause 3.3.2.2.3) using A1 Related API: A1 EI Query (request, result);
- Query EI Job Identifiers procedure (A1AP [9] clause 3.3.3.2.2) using A1 Related API: A1 EI Query (request,
result);
- Create EI Job procedure (A1AP [9] clause 3.3.3.3.2) using A1 Related API: A1 EI Job Setup (request, result);
- Query EI Job procedure (A1AP [9] clause 3.3.3.3.3) using A1 Related API: A1 EI Query (request, result);
- Update EI Job procedure (A1AP [9] clause 3.3.3.3.4) using A1 Related API: A1 EI Job Update (request, result);
- Delete EI Job procedure (A1AP [9] clause 3.3.3.3.5) using A1 Related API: A1 EI Job Delete (request, result);
- Query EI Job Status procedure (A1AP [9] clause 3.3.3.4.2) using A1 Related API: A1 EI Job Status Query
(request, result). b) Non-RT RIC (A1 Service Producer) originated procedures:
- Notify EI Job Status procedure (A1AP [9] clause 3.3.3.4.3) using A1 Related API: A1 EI Job Status Notify (status,
ack);
- Deliver EI Job Result procedure (A1AP [9] clause 3.3.4.2.2) using A1 Related API: A1 EI Job Result Delivery
(result, ack).

### 9.2.2 A1 Policy procedures

#### 9.2.2.1 A1 Policy Setup procedure
The purpose of A1 Policy Setup procedure in Near-RT RIC is to support the A1AP [9] Create Single Policy procedure from the Non-RT RIC and to request and activate an A1 policy enforcement toward a suitable xApp. Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Goal The activation of a received but not activated A1 policy in Near-RT RIC.
- Non-RT RIC: originator of HTTP PUT request to activate an A1 policy;
- xApp: responsible for the enforcement of assigned A1 policies;
Actors and Roles • Near-RT RIC platform, with the following functionalities: − A1 Termination; − xApp Repository.
- A1 policy types supported in Near-RT RIC are accessible by the Near-RT RIC platform;
- A1 policies created in Near-RT RIC are accessible by the Near-RT RIC platform;
Assumptions
- xApp selection needed information is accessible by the Near-RT RIC platform. xApp
selection process is performed in the Near-RT RIC platform.
- Near-RT RIC is running normally;
Pre conditions
- A1 interface is connected and activated.
Begins when Non-RT RIC determines to trigger the activation of one A1 policy towards the Near-RT RIC. Step 1 (M) Non-RT RIC requests Near-RT RIC to set up an A1 policy. Near-RT RIC platform checks whether the received policy type is supported in Near-RT RIC or Step 2 (M) not. [ALT] Step 3 is executed if the received policy type is not supported in Near-RT RIC: Step 3 (M) A “400” response is directly returned to Non-RT RIC. [ELSE] Steps 4-11 are executed if the received policy type is supported in Near-RT RIC: Near-RT RIC platform then checks whether the received A1 policy has been mapped to any Step 4 (M) xApp or not. If not, Near-RT RIC platform tries to identify suitable xApp(s). (NOTE 1) Step 5 (M) Near-RT RIC platform selects suitable xApp(s). [ALT] Steps 6-10 are executed if one or more suitable xApps are identified: Near-RT RIC platform selects a suitable xApp as the target of A1 related API: A1 Step 6 (M) POLICY SETUP REQUEST message. The message includes at least the corresponding A1 policy received from Non-RT RIC. [ALT] Steps 7-8 are executed if the selected xApp accomplishes setup of the A1 policy: A success is notified to Near-RT RIC platform in A1 related API: A1 POLICY SETUP Step 7-8 (M) RESULT message, and eventually to Non-RT RIC. [ELSE] Steps 9-10 are executed if the selected xApp fails to set up the A1 policy: A failure is notified to Near-RT RIC platform in A1 related API: A1 POLICY SETUP Step 9-10 (M) RESULT message, and eventually to Non-RT RIC. [ELSE] Step 11 is executed if no suitable xApp is identified: Step 11 (M) A “503” response is directly returned to Non-RT RIC.
> NOTE 1: The create policy and update policy procedure in A1 interface has the identical HTTP PUT Request, so when
a HTTP PUT Request is received, Near-RT RIC platform cannot decide whether it’s asked for create or update from a first glance. Only after further A1 policy mapping check to find out the enforcement status of the received A1 policy, can the purpose of the received HTTP PUT request be identified. If the received A1 policy is not mapped to any xApp, Near-RT RIC platform triggers A1 Policy Setup procedure as shown here. Otherwise, Near-RT RIC platform triggers A1 Policy Update procedure. See 9.2.2.2 for details.

#### 9.2.2.2 A1 Policy Update procedure
The purpose of A1 Policy Update procedure in Near-RT RIC is to support A1AP Update Single Policy procedure from Non- RT RIC. Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Goal The update of a received and already activated A1 policy in Near-RT RIC.
- Non-RT RIC: originator of HTTP PUT request to update an A1 policy;
- xApp: responsible for the enforcement of assigned A1 policies;
Actors and Roles
- Near-RT RIC platform, with the following functionalities:
− A1 Termination.
- A1 policy types supported in Near-RT RIC are accessible by the Near-RT RIC platform;
Assumptions
- A1 policies created in Near-RT RIC are accessible by the Near-RT RIC platform.
- Near-RT RIC is running normally;
Pre conditions
- A1 interface is connected and activated.
Begins when Non-RT RIC determines to trigger the update of one A1 policy towards the Near-RT RIC. Step 1 (M) Non-RT RIC requests Near-RT RIC to update an A1 policy. Near-RT RIC platform checks whether the received policy type is supported in Near-RT RIC or Step 2 (M) not. [ALT] Step 3 is executed if the received A1 policy type is not supported in Near-RT RIC: Step 3 (M) A “400” response is directly returned to Non-RT RIC. [ELSE] Steps 4-9 are executed if the received policy type is supported in Near-RT RIC: Near-RT RIC platform then checks whether the received A1 policy is mapped to any xApp or Step 4 (M) not. (NOTE 1) If the received A1 policy is already mapped to one xApp, Near-RT RIC platform selects the xApp as the target of A1 related API: A1 POLICY UPDATE REQUEST Step 5 (M) message. The message includes at least the corresponding A1 policy received from Non-RT RIC. [ALT] Steps 6-7 are executed if the target xApp accomplishes update of the A1 policy: A success is notified to Near-RT RIC platform in A1 related API: A1 POLICY UPDATE Step 6-7 (M) RESULT message, and eventually to Non-RT RIC. [ELSE] Steps 8-9 are executed if the target xApp fails to update the A1 policy: A failure is notified to Near-RT RIC platform in A1 related API: A1 POLICY UPDATE Step 8-9 (M) RESULT message, and eventually to Non-RT RIC.
> NOTE 1: The create policy and update policy procedure in A1 interface has the identical HTTP PUT Request, so when
a HTTP PUT Request is received, Near-RT RIC platform cannot decide whether it’s asked for create or update from a first glance. Only after further A1 policy mapping check to find out the enforcement status of the received A1 policy, can the purpose of the received HTTP PUT request be identified. If the received A1 policy is already mapped to an xApp, Near-RT RIC platform triggers A1 Policy Update procedure as shown here. Otherwise, Near-RT RIC platform triggers A1 Policy Setup procedure. See 9.2.2.1 for details.

#### 9.2.2.3 A1 Policy Delete procedure
The purpose of A1 Policy Delete procedure is to support the A1AP Delete Policy procedure from Non-RT RIC. Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Goal The deactivation of a received and already activated A1 policy in Near-RT RIC.
- Non-RT RIC: originator of HTTP DELETE request to deactivate an A1 policy;
- xApp: responsible for the deactivation of created A1 policies;
Actors and Roles
- Near-RT RIC platform, with the following functionalities:
− A1 Termination.
- A1 policy types supported in Near-RT RIC are accessible by Near-RT RIC platform;
Assumptions
- A1 policies created in Near-RT RIC are accessible by Near-RT RIC platform.
- Near-RT RIC is running normally.
Pre conditions
- A1 interface is connected and activated.
Begins when Non-RT RIC determines to trigger the deactivation of one A1 policy towards the Near-RT RIC. Step 1 (M) Non-RT RIC requests Near-RT RIC to delete an A1 policy. Near-RT RIC platform checks whether the received policy type is supported in Near-RT RIC or Step 2 (M) not. [ALT] Step 3 is executed if the received policy type is not supported in Near-RT RIC: Step 3 (M) A “400” response is directly returned to Non-RT RIC. [ELSE] Steps 4-10 are executed if the received policy type is supported in Near-RT RIC: Near-RT RIC platform then checks whether the received A1 policy is mapped to any xApp or Step 4 (M) not. [ALT] Steps 5-9 are executed if the received A1 policy is already mapped to one xApp: Near-RT RIC platform selects the xApp as the target of A1 related API: A1 POLICY Step 5 (M) DELETE REQUEST message. The message includes at least the corresponding A1 policy ID received from Non-RT RIC. [ALT] Steps 6-7 are executed if the target xApp accomplishes deletion of the A1 policy: A success is notified to Near-RT RIC platform in A1 related API: A1 POLICY Step 6-7 (M) DELETE RESULT message, and eventually to Non-RT RIC. [ELSE] Steps 8-9 are executed if the target xApp fails to delete the A1 policy: A failure is notified to Near-RT RIC platform in A1 related API: A1 POLICY DELETE Step 8-9 (M) RESULT message, and eventually to Non-RT RIC. [ELSE] Step 10 is executed if the received A1 policy is not mapped to any xApp: Step 10 (M) A “503” response is directly returned to Non-RT RIC.

#### 9.2.2.4 A1 Policy Query procedure
The purpose of A1 Policy Query procedure is to support the following A1AP procedures initiated by the Non-RT RIC:
- A1AP Query Single Policy procedure;
- A1AP Query All Policy Identifiers procedure;
- A1AP Query Policy Status procedure;
- A1AP Query All Policy Type Identifiers procedure;
- A1AP Query Single Policy Type procedure.
come from Near-RT platform or from the Non-RT RIC. Query procedure Platform Request xApp Response Query Single Policy URI containing policyId PolicyObject Query All Policy Identifiers URI containing policyTypeId list of current policyId Query Status URI containing policyId PolicyStatusObject Query All Policy Type Identifiers URI list of currently supported PolicyTypeId Query Single Policy Type URI containing PolicyTypeId PolicyTypeObject Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification To obtain from an xApp information concerning A1 Policies, outcome depends on nature of Request:
- Query Single Policy: xApp provides PolicyObject for a given policyId;
- Query All Policy Identifiers: xApp provides the list of current policyId for a given
Goal policyTypeId;
- Query Status: xApp provides current PolicyStatusObject for a given policyId;
- Query All Policy Type Identifiers: xApp provides list of currently supported PolicyTypeId;
- Query Single Policy Type: xApp provides PolicyTypeObject of a given PolicyTypeId.
- Non-RT RIC: originator of query using HTTP GET request;
- xApp: provides appropriate response corresponding to nature of request;
Actors and Roles • Near-RT RIC platform, with the following functionalities: − A1 Termination; − xApp Repository.
- xApp selection needed information is accessible by Near-RT RIC platform. xApp
selection process is performed at Near-RT RIC platform; Assumptions
- Near-RT RIC platform may store the results of the xApp selection process
- Near-RT RIC platform may hold information related to Policy Query procedures.
- Near-RT RIC is running normally;
Pre conditions
- A1 interface is connected and activated.
Begins when Non-RT RIC determines need to trigger A1 query towards the Near-RT RIC. Non-RT RIC sends to Near-RT RIC one of the A1AP Policy Management service related Query Step 1 (M) procedures. Step 2 (M) Near-RT RIC platform inspects content of HTTP GET to determine nature of Query. Step 3 (M) Near-RT RIC platform selects suitable xApp(s) to collect information for the query. [LOOP] Steps 4-6 are looped for each xApp selected by Near-RT RIC platform Near-RT RIC platform may send A1 related API: A1 POLICY QUERY REQUEST message. Step 4 (O) The message includes at least the corresponding A1 policy management service query resource URI received from Non-RT RIC. If the selected xApp(s) accomplishes the A1 policy management service query, a success is Step 5 (O) notified to Near-RT RIC platform in A1 related API: A1 POLICY QUERY RESULT message. Near-RT RIC platform may store the result. If the selected xApp(s) fails to treat the A1 policy management service query, a failure is Step 6 (O) notified to Near-RT RIC platform in A1 related API: A1 POLICY QUERY RESULT message. Near-RT RIC platform collects the responses from each xApp and/or its previously stored Step 7 (M) information, and consolidates into a response to Non-RT RIC. If A1 policy query response available, Near-RT RIC platform sends the appropriate A1AP Policy Step 8 (M) Management Service response to Non-RT RIC. If A1 policy query response not available, Near-RT RIC platform sends the appropriate A1AP Step 9 (M) Policy Management Service error to Non-RT RIC (A1AP [9] clause 4.2.7.3). Depending upon the nature of the previous A1AP Policy Management Service query and the Step 10 (O) response from the Near-RT RIC, the Non-RT RIC may initiate a subsequent A1AP Policy Management Service query.

#### 9.2.2.5 A1 Policy Status Update procedure
The purpose of A1 Policy Status Update procedure in Near-RT RIC is to support the A1AP Policy Status Update procedure (A1AP [9] clause 3.2.2.6) from the Near-RT RIC. Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Goal The activation of a received but not activated A1 policy in Near-RT RIC.
- Non-RT RIC: receives the HTTP POST containing PolicyStatusObject;
- xApp: originator of the PolicyStatusObject content to be sent to Non-RT RIC;
Actors and Roles
- Near-RT RIC platform, with the following functionalities:
− A1 Termination.
- A1 policy types supported in Near-RT RIC are accessible by Near-RT RIC platform;
- A1 policies created in Near-RT RIC are accessible by Near-RT RIC platform;
Assumptions
- xApp selection needed data is accessible by the Near-RT RIC platform. xApp selection
process is performed at the Near-RT RIC platform.
- Near-RT RIC is running normally;
Pre conditions
- A1 interface is connected and activated.
Begins when xApp determines need to trigger the A1 policy status update to be sent to the Non-RT RIC. xApp sends A1 related API: A1 POLICY STATUS UPDATE (PolicyStatusObject information Step 1 (M) encoded as A1TD) message to Near-RT RIC platform. [ALT] Step 2 is executed if Near-RT RIC platform rejects request: Step 2 (M) Near-RT RIC platform sends A1 Related POLICY STATUS UPDATE (Error) to xApp. [ELSE] Step 3-5 are executed if Near-RT RIC platform accepts request: Step 3 (M) Near-RT RIC platform forwards content within A1AP Policy Status Update message. Non-RT RIC sends A1AP acknowledgement, and Near-RT RIC platform forwards to xApp Step 4-5 (M) using A1 Related POLICY STATUS UPDATE (Ack).

### 9.2.3 A1-EI related procedures

#### 9.2.3.1 A1-EI Query procedure
The purpose of A1 EI Query procedure is to support the following A1AP procedures initiated by the Near-RT RIC:
- Query EI Type Identifiers procedure;
- Query EI Type procedure;
- Query EI Job Identifiers procedure;
- Query EI Job procedure;
- Query EI Job Status procedure.
come from the platform or the Non-RT RIC. Query procedure xApp request Platform Response Query EI Type Identifiers URI containing EiTypes List of EiTypeId Query EI Type URI containing EiTypeId List of EiTypeObject Query EI Job Identifiers URI containing EiJobs List of current EiJobId Query EI Job URI containing EiJobId EiJobObject Query EI Job Status URI containing EiJobId EiJobStatusObjec Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification To obtain from Non-RT RIC information concerning A1 EI, outcome depends on nature of Request:
- Query EI Type Identifiers: Non-RT RIC provides list of EiTypeId for a given EiTypes;
- Query EI Type: Non-RT RIC provides EiTypeObject for a given EiTypeId;
Goal
- Query EI Job Identifiers: Non-RT RIC provides list of current EiJobId for a given EiJobs;
- Query EI Job: Non-RT RIC provides EiJobObject for a given EiJobId;
- Query EI Job Status: Non-RT RIC provides EiJobStatusObject for a given EiJobId with
flag Status.
- Non-RT RIC: provides appropriate response corresponding to nature of request;
- xApp: originator of query using HTTP GET request;
Actors and Roles
- Near-RT RIC platform, with the following functionalities:
− A1 Termination.
- For A1-EI query, Near-RT RIC platform is stateless and so does not store previous
Assumptions Query responses from Non-RT RIC
- Near-RT RIC is running normally.
Pre conditions
- A1 interface is connected and activated.
Begins when xApp determines need to trigger A1 EI query towards the Non-RT RIC. Step 1 (M) xApp sends A1 Related EI QUERY REQUEST (URI) to Near-RT RIC platform. [ALT] Step 2 is executed if Near-RT RIC platform rejects the request: Near-RT RIC platform may reject request and send A1 Related EI QUERY RESULT (error Step 2 (O) code) to xApp. [ELSE] Steps 3-8 are executed if Near-RT RIC platform accepts the request: Near-RT RIC platform builds appropriate A1AP EI Query message including URI and sends Step 3 (M) to non-RT RIC. Step 4 (M) Non-RT RIC inspects URI to determine nature of query and it is acceptable. [ALT] Steps 5-6 are executed if Non-RT RIC accepts the query: Non-RT RIC builds appropriate response (EI information encoded using A1TD) and sends Step 5-6 (M) to Near-RT RIC platform, Near-RT RIC platform uses A1 Related EI QUERY RESULT to send response to xApp (with EI information encoded using A1TD). [ELSE] Steps 7-8 are executed if Non-RT RIC rejects the query: Non-RT RIC builds appropriate response (error code) and sends to Near-RT RIC Step 7-8 (M) platform, Near-RT RIC platform used A1 Related EI QUERY RESULT (error code) to send response to xApp. Depending upon the nature of the previous A1AP EI query and the response from the Non-RT Step 9 (O) RIC, the xApp may initiate a subsequent A1AP EI query.

#### 9.2.3.2 A1-EI subscription setup procedure
The A1-EI subscription setup procedure enables xApp to setup a new A1-EI subscription toward Near-RT RIC Platform. Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Goal To setup a new A1-EI subscription between xApp and Near-RT RIC Platform.
- Non-RT RIC: A1-EI producer.
- xApp: requester of AI-EI subscription setup.
Actors and Roles • Near-RT RIC Platform, with the following functionalities: − A1 Termination. − xApp Repository.
- Created EiJobObjects in Near-RT RIC is readable by Near-RT RIC platform.
- Non-RT RIC’s supported A1-EIs record in Near-RT RIC is readable by Near-RT RIC
platform.
- xApp subscribe multiple A1-EIs in integrated manner, i.e., subscribed A1-EIs indicated
Assumptions by A1 related API: A1-EI SUBSCRIPTION SETUP REQUEST message are dependent on each other, and only full success of all A1-EI subscriptions is viewed as message process success.
- xApp's access permission to A1-EI is handled by Near-RT RIC platform.
- Near-RT RIC Platform is running normal.
Pre-conditions
- Near-RT RIC is connected to Non-RT RIC via A1 interface.
Begins when xApp determines to request subscription of A1-EI(s). xApp requests Near-RT RIC Platform to set up an A1-EI subscription by sending A1 related Step 1 (M) API: A1-EI SUBSCRIPTION SETUP REQUEST message, with A1-EI subscription setup details included. Near-RT RIC platform checks whether the originating xApp is allowed to access all the Step 2 (M) requested A1-EI(s). [ALT] Step 3 is executed if the originating xApp is not allowed to access some of the requested A1-EIs. A failure is responded to the originating xApp via A1 related API: A1-EI SUBSCRIPTION Step 3 (M) SETUP RESULT message, possibly including appropriate reason. [ELSE] Steps 4-12 are executed if the originating xApp is allowed to access all the requested A1- EIs. Step 4 (M) Near-RT RIC platform checks whether all the requested A1-EIs is supported in Non-RT RIC. [ALT] Step 5 is executed if some of the requested A1-EI(s) is NOT supported in Non-RT RIC. A failure is responded to the originating xApp via A1 related API: A1-EI SUBSCRIPTION Step 5 (M) SETUP RESULT message, possibly including appropriate reason. [ELSE] Steps 6-12 are executed if all requested A1-EI(s) is supported in Non-RT RIC. Near-RT RIC platform checks whether created EiJobObject(s) satisfies the originating Step 6 (M) xApp’s request. [ALT] Step 7 is executed if created EiJobObject(s) satisfies the originating xApp’s request. Near-RT RIC platform associates the identified created EiJobObject with the Step 7 (M) originating xApp, and responds success to the originating xApp via A1 related API: A1-EI SUBSCRIPTION SETUP RESULT message. [ELSE] Steps 8-12 are executed if created EiJobObject(s) does not satisfy the originating xApp’s request. [LOOP] Steps 8-10 are looped for each subscribed A1-EI that does not have EiJobObject association Near-RT RIC platform makes A1 interface EiJobObject either create or update Step 8 (M) decision. [ALT] Step 9 is executed if A1 interface EiJobObject create decision is made. Near-RT RIC platform initiates create EI job procedure towards Non-RT RIC Step 9 (M) and receives response from Non-RT RIC. [ELSE] Step 10 is executed if A1 interface EiJobObject update decision is made. Near-RT RIC platform initiates update EI job procedure towards Non-RT RIC Step 10 (M) and receives response from Non-RT RIC. [ALT] Step 11 is executed if A1 interface EiJobObject create/update process shots full success. Near-RT RIC platform responds success to the originating xApp via A1 related Step 11 (M) API: A1-EI SUBSCRIPTION SETUP RESULT message. [ELSE] Step 12 is executed if A1 interface EiJobObject create/update process shots not full success. Near-RT RIC platform responds failure to the originating xApp via A1 related API: Step 12 (M) A1-EI SUBSCRIPTION SETUP RESULT message, possibly including appropriate reason.

#### 9.2.3.3 A1-EI subscription update procedure
The A1-EI subscription update procedure enables xApp to update an existing A1-EI subscription toward Near-RT RIC Platform. Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Goal To update an existing A1-EI subscription between xApp and Near-RT RIC Platform.
- Non-RT RIC: A1-EI producer.
- xApp: requester of AI-EI subscription update.
Actors and Roles • Near-RT RIC Platform, with the following functionalities: − A1 Termination. − xApp Repository.
- Created EiJobObjects in Near-RT RIC is readable by Near-RT RIC platform.
- Non-RT RIC’s supported A1-EIs record in Near-RT RIC is readable by Near-RT RIC
platform.
- xApp subscribe multiple A1-EIs in integrated manner, i.e., subscribed A1-EIs indicated
Assumptions by A1 related API: A1-EI SUBSCRIPTION SETUP REQUEST message are dependent on each other, and only full success of all A1-EI subscriptions is viewed as message process success.
- xApp's access permission to A1-EI is handled by Near-RT RIC platform.
- Near-RT RIC Platform is running normal.
Pre-conditions
- Near-RT RIC is connected to Non-RT RIC via A1 interface.
Begins when xApp determines to request update of one A1-EI subscription. xApp requests Near-RT RIC Platform to update an A1-EI subscription by sending A1 related Step 1 (M) API: A1-EI SUBSCRIPTION UPDATE REQUEST message, with A1-EI subscription update details included. From A1 related API: A1-EI SUBSCRIPTION UPDATE REQUEST message, Near-RT RIC Step 2 (M) platform filters A1-EI(s) requested for 1) unsubscribing, and 2) subscribing (including new subscription needs creation and current subscription needs update). For A1-EI(s) requested for unsubscribing, execute steps 3-6. Step 3 (M) Near-RT RIC platform deletes corresponding A1-EI subscription(s). [LOOP] Steps 4-6 are looped for each requested A1-EI Step 4 (M) Near-RT RIC platform makes A1 interface EiJobObject either delete or update decision. [ALT] Step 5 is executed if A1 interface EiJobObject delete decision is made. Near-RT RIC platform initiates delete EI job procedure towards Non-RT RIC and receives Step 5 (M) response from Non-RT RIC. [ELSE] Step 6 is executed if A1 interface EiJobObject update decision is made. Near-RT RIC platform initiates update EI job procedure towards Non-RT RIC and Step 6 (M) receives response from Non-RT RIC. For A1-EI(s) requested for subscribing, execute steps 7-17. Near-RT RIC platform checks whether the originating xApp is allowed to access to the Step 7 (M) requested A1-EI(s). [ALT] Step 8 is executed if the originating xApp is not allowed to access some of the requested A1-EI(s). A failure is responded to the originating xApp via A1 related API: A1-EI SUBSCRIPTION Step 8 (M) UPDATE RESULT message, possibly including appropriate reason. [ELSE] Steps 9-17 are executed if the originating xApp is allowed to access all the requested A1-EI(s). Near-RT RIC platform checks whether the requested A1-EI(s) is supported in Non-RT Step 9 (M) RIC. [ALT] Step 10 is executed if some of requested A1-EI(s) is NOT supported in Non-RT RIC. A failure is responded to the originating xApp via A1 related API: A1-EI Step 10 (M) SUBSCRIPTION UPDATE RESULT message, possibly including appropriate reason. [ELSE] Steps 11-17 are executed if all requested A1-EI(s) is supported in Non-RT RIC. Near-RT RIC platform checks whether created EiJobObject(s) satisfies the originating Step 11 (M) xApp’s request. [ALT] Step 12 is executed if created EiJobObject(s) satisfies the originating xApp’s request. Near-RT RIC platform associates the identified created EiJobObject with the Step 12 (M) originating xApp, and responds success to the originating xApp via A1 related API: A1-EI SUBSCRIPTION UPDATE RESULT message. [ELSE] Steps 13-17 are executed if created EiJobObject(s) does not satisfy the originating xApp’s request. [LOOP] Steps 13-15 are looped for each requested A1-EI that does not have EiJobObject association Near-RT RIC platform makes A1 interface EiJobObject either create or update Step 13 (M) decision. [ALT] Step 14 is executed if A1 interface EiJobObject create decision is made. Near-RT RIC platform initiates create EI job procedure towards Non-RT Step 14 (M) RIC and receives response from Non-RT RIC. [ELSE] Step 15 is executed if A1 interface EiJobObject update decision is made. Near-RT RIC platform initiates update EI job procedure towards Non-RT Step 15 (M) RIC and receives response from Non-RT RIC. [ALT] Step 16 is executed if A1 interface EiJobObject create/update process shots full success. Near-RT RIC platform responds success to the originating xApp via A1 related Step 16 (M) API: A1-EI SUBSCRIPTION UPDATE RESULT message. [ELSE] Step 17 is executed if A1 interface EiJobObject create/update process shots not full success. Near-RT RIC platform responds failure to the originating xApp via A1 related Step 17 (M) API: A1-EI SUBSCRIPTION UPDATE RESULT message, possibly including appropriate reason.

#### 9.2.3.4 A1-EI subscription delete procedure
A1-EI subscription delete procedure allows xApp to delete an existing A1-EI subscription toward Near-RT RIC Platform. Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Goal To delete an existing A1-EI subscription between xApp and Near-RT RIC Platform.
- Non-RT RIC: A1-EI producer.
- xApp: requester of AI-EI subscription delete.
Actors and Roles
- Near-RT RIC Platform, with the following functionalities:
− A1 Termination.
- Created EiJobObjects in Near-RT RIC is readable by Near-RT RIC platform.
Assumptions
- xApp's access permission to A1-EI subscription is handled by Near-RT RIC platform.
- Near-RT RIC Platform is running normal.
Pre-conditions
- Near-RT RIC is connected to Non-RT RIC via A1 interface.
Begins when xApp determines to request delete of one A1-EI subscription. xApp requests Near-RT RIC Platform to delete an A1-EI subscription by sending A1 related Step 1 (M) API: A1-EI SUBSCRIPTION DELETE REQUEST message, with A1-EI subscription ID included. Near-RT RIC platform checks whether the originating xApp is allowed to access to the requested Step 2 (M) A1-EI subscription. [ALT] Step 3 is executed if the originating xApp is not allowed to access to the requested A1-EI subscription. A failure is responded to the originating xApp via A1 related API: A1-EI SUBSCRIPTION Step 3 (M) DELETE RESULT message, possibly including appropriate reason. [ELSE] Steps 4-8 are executed if the originating xApp is allowed to access to the requested A1- EI subscription. Near-RT RIC platform finds the created EiJobObjects associated with the requested A1-EI Step 4 (M) subscription. [LOOP] Steps 5-7 are looped for each created EiJobObjects associated with the requested A1-EI subscription Step 5 (M) Near-RT RIC platform makes A1 interface EiJobObject either delete or update decision. [ALT] Step 6 is executed if A1 interface EiJobObject delete decision is made. Near-RT RIC platform initiates delete EI job procedure towards Non-RT RIC and Step 6 (M) receives response from Non-RT RIC. [ELSE] Step 7 is executed if A1 interface EiJobObject update decision is made. Near-RT RIC platform initiates update EI job procedure towards Non-RT RIC and Step 7 (M) receives response from Non-RT RIC. Near-RT RIC platform responds success to the originating xApp via A1 related API: A1-EI Step 8 (M) SUBSCRIPTION DELETE RESULT message.

#### 9.2.3.5 A1-EI delivery procedure
The A1-EI delivery procedure allows xApp to be deliveried with subscribed A1-EI from Near-RT RIC Platform. Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Goal The delivery of A1-EI from Near-RT RIC Platform.
- Non-RT RIC: A1-EI producer.
- xApp: AI-EI consumer.
Actors and Roles
- Near-RT RIC Platform, with the following functionalities:
− A1 Termination.
- jobResultUri indicated by Non-RT RIC to target xApp mapping is handled by Near-RT
Assumptions RIC platform.
- Near-RT RIC Platform is running normal.
Pre-conditions
- Near-RT RIC is connected to Non-RT RIC via A1 interface.
Begins when Non-RT RIC has A1-EI produced for Near-RT RIC. Non-RT RIC sends a HTTP POST request to deliver the produced EiJobResultObject to Near- Step 1 (M) RT RIC Platform. Step 2 (M) Near-RT RIC platform maps jobResultUri indicated by Non-RT RIC to target xApps. [ALT] If at least one target xApp is identified, execute steps 3-4. Step 3 (M) Near-RT RIC platform responds Non-RT RIC with status code "204". [LOOP] Step 4 is looped for each target xApp Near-RT RIC platform delivers the A1-EI to the target xApp by sending A1 related API: Step 4 (M) A1-EI DELIVERY message, with associated A1-EI subscription ID included. [ELSE] If NO target xApp is identified, execute steps 5-6. Near-RT RIC platform responds an appropriate error code and possibly error information to Step 5 (M) Non-RT RIC. Near-RT RIC platform initiates delete EI job procedure towards Non-RT RIC to delete the Step 6 (O) corresponding EI job and receives response from Non-RT RIC.

## 9.3 E2 Related API Procedures

### 9.3.1 Introduction
The following procedures are described in this clause: E2AP RIC Functional procedures:
- RIC Subscription using E2 Related API: E2 Subscription (request, reject, success, failure) and E2 Related API: E2
Guidance (request, response);
- RIC Subscription Delete using E2 Related API: E2 Subscription Delete (request, reject, success, failure);
- RIC Subscription Delete Required using E2 Related API: E2 Subscription Delete Query (required, accept, decline)
and E2 Related API: E2 Subscription Delete Notification (Deleted);
- RIC Subscription Modification using E2 Related API: E2 Subscription Modification (request, reject, success,
failure);
- RIC Subscription Audit using E2 Related API: E2 Subscription Audit (request, reject, success, failure);
- RIC Indication using E2 Related API: E2 Indication (push, failure);
- RIC Control using E2 Related API: E2 Control (request, reject, success, failure) and E2 Related API: E2
Guidance (request, response);
- RIC Query using E2 Related API: E2 Query (request, reject, success, failure).
E2 Conflict Mitigation related procedures:
- xApp initiated conflict mitigation using E2 Related API: E2 Guidance (request, response);
- xApp Subscription Management initiated conflict mitigation using E2 Related API: E2 Guidance (modification);
- Conflict mitigation related message monitoring using E2 Related API: E2 Guidance (modification);
- Conflict mitigation initiated conflict mitigation using E2 Related API: E2 Guidance (modification);
- Conflict mitigation initiated conflict detection, avoidance, and resolution related xApp assistance using E2 Related
API: E2 Conflict Mitigation Assistance (request, response).

### 9.3.2 RIC Functional Procedures

#### 9.3.2.1 E2 Subscription procedure
The purpose of the E2 Subscription procedure in the Near-RT RIC is to enable an xApp to request subscriptions for REPORT, INSERT and/or POLICY service(s) from E2 interface, and to ensure that only validated and non-duplicate subscriptions are maintained by the Near-RT RIC over the E2 interface to the E2 Node and that duplicated E2 Subscription Request messages from xApps are handled gracefully. This procedure is based on the following assumptions:
- xApp may obtain guidance from Near-RT RIC Platform (i.e., conflict mitigation processing) to resolve potential
conflicts and/or detect partial duplications prior to sending a E2 Subscription Request (see clause 9.3.3.1);
- xApp has been configured with a trusted xApp ID;
- Near-RT RIC platform maintains all previous successful RIC Subscriptions towards the E2 Node listed in xApp’s E2
Subscription request and is able to detect duplications and recover E2 Node response messages;
- Near-RT RIC platform may leverage its conflict mitigation functionality in managing E2 subscriptions (see clause
9.3.3.5);
- Near-RT RIC platform decides initiation of appropriate E2AP procedure(s), if needed, to fulfil the E2 Subscription
request.
- E2 Request ID is used on E2-related APIs to identify an active RIC subscription. Near-RT Platform maintains the 1:1
mapping between E2 Request ID, used on E2 related APIs, and RIC Request ID, used on E2 interface.
- Near-RT RIC platform routes requests for E2AP procedure(s) to appropriate E2 interface;
- Near-RT RIC platform maintains a mapping of active Subscriptions (identified on E2 interface by E2 Node ID and
RIC Request ID) of validated xApps. Near-RT RIC platform uses the mapping when sending E2 INDICATION messages to the correct xApp or xApps.
- Near-RT RIC platform sends the E2 Subscription response prior to sending any associated E2 Indication message to
the xApp. The procedure is initiated by an xApp using E2 Related API: E2 Subscription request for a specific E2 Node. The following outcomes are considered:
- Request fails following rejection by Near-RT RIC platform and an E2 related API: E2 Subscription response
(Reject) is sent to xApp without E2 interface transaction. Response contains Cause (i.e., xApp not authorized to request specific subscription);
- Request towards a specific E2 Node is handled successfully following acceptance by Near-RT RIC platform but
detected as duplicate and so acknowledged with an E2 related API: E2 Subscription response (Success) to xApp for a specific E2 Node without corresponding E2 interface transaction;
- Request towards a specific E2 Node is handled successfully following acceptance by Near-RT RIC Platform and
acceptance by E2 Node and so acknowledged with an E2 related API: E2 Subscription response (Success) to xApp for a specific E2 Node following corresponding E2 interface transaction;
- Request towards a specific E2 Node fails following acceptance by Near-RT RIC Platform but is either rejected by E2
Node or corresponding E2AP timer expires prior to a response from E2 Node and so declined using an E2 related API: E2 Subscription response (Failure) to xApp for a specific E2 Node following corresponding E2 interface transaction. Response contains Cause (i.e., Request contents not accepted by E2 Node, E2AP timeout, etc.). Use Case Evolution / Specification Stage Goal E2 Subscription API procedure from xApp initiation to E2 Node and response.
- xApp: Originator of E2 Subscription API request;
- Near-RT RIC platform, with the following functionalities:
− Database; Actors and − xApp Subscription Management; Roles − Conflict Mitigation; − E2 Termination.
- E2 Node: Handling RIC Subscription related procedure(s).
- Near-RT RIC platform maintains the records of the E2 subscriptions;
- Near-RT RIC platform has access to sufficient information to both detect a potential
Assumptions conflict and take a decision on an optimal mitigation solution;
- Near-RT RIC platform may generate guidance for internal processes and/or xApp as an
optional addition response to Guidance Request.
- E2 Node has active E2 interface to Near-RT RIC;
- Near-RT RIC has recovered complete list of active RAN Functions on E2 Node and
Pre-conditions informed initiating xApp;
- xApp has been authorized to issue E2 Subscription API Requests;
- xApp has been authorized to request guidance from Near-RT RIC platform;
- Near-RT RIC platform has been configured to permit E2 Subscription API requests from
specific list of xApp; xApp determines need to propose E2 Subscription API request for a specific E2 Node ID and Begins when defines message contents (target RAN Function ID, Event Trigger, Action List). xApp can request optional E2 related API: E2 Guidance from Near-RT RIC platform (see clause Step 1 (O) 9.3.3.1 for details). xApp sends E2 related API: E2 Subscription request with message contents (target RAN Step 2 (M) Function ID, Event Trigger, Action List) for a specific E2 Node. Near-RT RIC platform, after optional conflict mitigation processing (see clause 9.3.3.5 for details), Step 3 (M) accepts or rejects proposal from xApp for specific E2 Node. [ALT] Step 4 is executed if Near-RT RIC platform rejects the proposal: Near-RT RIC platform sends E2 related API: E2 Subscription response to xApp (Reject with Step 4 (M) Cause for specific E2 Node). [ELSE] Steps 5-11 are executed if Near-RT RIC platform accepts the proposal: Near-RT RIC platform checks the proposal against its maintained subscription records for Step 5 (M) duplicate, and determines the subsequent operation. [ALT] Steps 6-9 are executed if the subscription proposed by xApp necessitates E2AP procedure(s) (i.e., no record found for E2 Node ID with Subscription matching the same contents): Near-RT RIC platform selects appropriate E2 interface and initiates appropriate E2AP Step 6 (M) procedure(s) to E2 Node. [ALT] Steps 7-8 are executed if the E2AP procedure(s) in Step 6 succeeds: Near-RT RIC platform updates the subscription records. For each Action in subscription Step 7 (M) corresponding to an Indication message, Near-RT RIC platform adds the xApp ID to the distribution list associated with the E2 Node ID, RIC Request ID and Action ID. Near-RT RIC platform sends E2 related API: E2 Subscription response to xApp Step 8 (M) (Success, E2 Node ID, corresponding E2 Request ID(s) and E2 Action ID(s)). [ELSE] Steps 9 is executed if the E2AP procedure(s) in Step 7 fails: Near-RT RIC platform sends E2 related API: E2 Subscription response to xApp Step 9 (M) (Failure with Cause, E2 Node ID). [ELSE] Steps 10-11 are executed if the proposal can be fulfilled with existing subscription(s) (i.e., one or more records found for E2 Node ID with Subscription matching the same contents): Near-RT RIC platform updates the subscription records. For each Action in subscription Step 10 (M) corresponding to an Indication message, Near-RT RIC platform adds xApp ID to distribution list associated with E2 Node ID, RIC Request ID and Action ID. xApp Subscription Management sends E2 Related API: E2 Subscription response to xApp Step 11 (M) (Success, E2 Node ID, corresponding E2 Request ID(s) and E2 Action ID(s)).

#### 9.3.2.2 E2 Subscription Delete procedure
The purpose of the E2 Subscription Delete procedure in the Near-RT RIC is to ensure that a) only validated RIC Subscription Delete Request messages are issued by the Near-RT RIC over the E2 interface to the E2 Node; b) deletion requests for duplicated Subscription Requests are handled gracefully. This procedure is based on the following assumptions:
- xApp has been configured with a trusted xApp ID;
- Near-RT RIC platform maintains all active subscriptions towards the E2 Node listed in xApp’s E2 Subscription
Delete request and is able to detect when and if the delete request shall result in a corresponding E2 message;
- Near-RT RIC platform routes the subscription delete requests to an appropriate E2interface;
- Near-RT RIC platform maintains a mapping of active subscriptions (identified on E2 interface by E2 Node ID and
RIC Request ID) of the validated xApps. Near-RT RIC platform uses the mapping when sending RIC INDICATION messages to the correct xApp; The procedure initiated by an xApp uses E2 Related API: E2 Subscription Delete to request subscription deletion for a specific E2 Node. The following outcomes are considered:
- Request fails following rejection by Near-RT RIC platform and an E2 Related API: E2 Subscription Delete
response (Reject) is sent to xApp without E2 interface transaction (i.e., xApp not previously associated with validated subscription);
- Request succeeds following acceptance by Near-RT RIC platform but other subscriber(s) detected for the
subscription, and an E2 Related API: E2 Subscription Delete response (Success) is sent to xApp without corresponding E2 transaction;
- Request succeeds following acceptance by Near-RT RIC platform and accepted by E2 Node, and an E2 Related API:
E2 Subscription Delete response (Success) is sent to xApp following corresponding E2 transaction;
- Request fails following acceptance by Near-RT RIC platform but is either rejected by E2 Node or corresponding
E2AP timer expires prior to a response from E2 Node, and an E2 Related API: E2 Subscription Delete response (Failure) is sent to xApp following corresponding E2 interface transaction (i.e., RIC Request ID is not known by E2 Node, time out, etc.); Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Goal E2 Subscription Delete procedure from xApp initiation to E2 Node and response.
- xApp: Originator of E2 Subscription Delete request;
- Near-RT RIC platform, with the following functionalities:
− Database; Actors and Roles − xApp Subscription Management; − E2 Termination.
- E2 Node: Handling RIC Subscription Delete procedure.
Assumptions • Near-RT RIC platform maintains the E2 subscription records;
- E2 Node has active E2 interface to Near-RT RIC;
- Near-RT RIC has recovered complete list of active RAN Functions on E2 Node and
Pre conditions informed initiating xApp;
- Near-RT RIC platform has been configured to permit RIC Subscription Delete requests
from xApp. xApp determines need to request E2 Subscription Delete for a specific E2 Node ID and E2 Begins when Request ID. xApp sends E2 related API: E2 Subscription Delete request for a specific E2 Node and E2 Step 1 (M) request ID. Near-RT RIC platform confirms that xApp proposing E2 Subscription Delete has an active Step 2 (M) subscription. Step 3 (M) Near-RT RIC platform accepts or rejects proposal from xApp. [ALT] Step 4 is executed if xApp Subscription Management rejects the proposal: Near-RT RIC platform sends E2 related API: E2 Subscription Delete response to xApp Step 4 (M) (Reject with Cause for specific E2 Node and E2 Request ID). [ELSE] Steps 5-13 are executed if xApp Subscription Management accepts the proposal. Near-RT RIC platform checks the subscription records to determine whether or not xApp Step 5 (M) proposing Subscription Delete is the only associated xApp. [ALT] Steps 6-11 are executed if the xApp proposing Subscription Delete is the only xApp associated with the subscription (i.e., a given RIC Request ID): Near-RT RIC platform selects appropriate E2 interface and sends RIC Subscription Step 6 (M) Delete Request (RIC Request ID) to E2 Node. [ALT] Steps 7-9 are executed if E2 Node accepts Subscription Delete: Step 7 (M) E2 Node responds with RIC Subscription Delete Response. Near-RT RIC platform updates the subscription records, and deletes the distribution Step 8 (M) list(s) associated with the E2 Node ID and the RIC Request ID. Near-RT RIC platform sends E2 related API: E2 Subscription Delete response to Step 9 (M) xApp (Success). [ELSE] Steps 10-11 are executed if E2 Node rejects Subscription Delete: Step 10 (M) E2 Node responds with RIC Subscription Delete Failure (with Cause). Near-RT RIC platform sends E2 related API: E2 Subscription Delete response to Step 11 (M) xApp (Failure with Cause). [ELSE] Step 12 if E2 Node fails to respond prior to E2AP timer expires Near-RT RIC platform E2AP timer expires and sends E2 related API: E2 Step 12 (M) Subscription Delete response (Failure with Cause) to xApp. [ELSE] Steps 13-14 are executed if the xApp proposing Subscription Delete is one of a number of xApp associated with the subscription (i.e., a given RIC Request ID): Near-RT RIC platform updates the subscription records, and removes the xApp from Step 13 (M) distribution list(s) associated with the E2 Node ID and the RIC Request ID. Near-RT RIC platform sends E2 related API: E2 Subscription Delete response to xApp Step 14 (M) (Success). xApp Near RT RIC platform E Node

# 3 Accept Reject decision

# 4 (E related A I) E ubscription elete
(Reject E Node I E Request I Cause)

# 5 Count alid records

# E RIC CRI TION E ETE RE E T
(RIC Request I )

# E RIC CRI TION E ETE RE ON E
pdate the subscription records and delete the distribution list (E related A I) E ubscription elete ( uccess E Node I E Request I )

# 10 E RIC CRI TION E ETE AI RE

# 11 (E related A I) E ubscription elete
( ailure E Node I E Request I Cause) a. E A time out b. (E related A I) E ubscription elete ( ailure E Node I E Request I Cause) pdate the subscription records and delete the xApp from the distribution list

# 14 (E related A I) E ubscription elete
( uccess E Node I E Request I ) xApp Near RT RIC platform E Node 9.3.2.2A E2 Subscription Delete Query procedure and E2 Subscription Delete Notification procedure The purpose of the E2 Subscription Delete Query procedure and E2 Subscription Delete Notification Procedure in the Near-RT RIC is to ensure that deletion request of the existing subscriptions from an E2 Node is handled properly. The two procedures are based on the following assumptions:
- The Near-RT RIC platform maintains the list of xApps associated with the subscription removal request from an E2
Node and, if decides to accept, uses the E2 related API: E2 Subscription Delete Notification (Deleted) to delete subscriptions toward xApps. Prior to determining whether or not to accept the subscription delete required request, the Near-RT RIC platform may send E2 related API: E2 Subscription Delete Query (required) to each xApp with an active subscription, each xApp may respond with E2 related API: E2 Subscription Delete (accept) or E2 related API: E2 Subscription Delete (decline).The procedures may be initiated by theNear-RT RIC platform, when RIC Subscription Delete Required is received from an E2 Node. The Near-RT RIC platform may use the E2 Related API: E2 Subscription Delete Query (required) to consult xApps. The following outcomes are considered:
- xApp accepts request to delete subscription and sends E2 Related API: E2 Subscription Delete Query (accept) to
accept subscription deletion.
- xApp declines request to delete subscription and sends E2 Related API: E2 Subscription Delete Query (decline) to
inform Near-RT RIC platform. In both cases, the Near-RT RIC platform may decide whether to delete the subscription. The Near-RT RIC platform may also decide whether to delete the subscription without consulting xApps. If the Near-RT RIC platform decides to delete the subscription, it uses E2 Related API: E2 Subscription Delete Notification (Deleted) to inform each xApp for the eventual outcome. Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Goal RIC subscription removal initiated from an E2 Node.
- xApp: Recipient of E2 Subscription Delete query and notification;
- Near-RT RIC platform, with the following functionalities:
− Database; Actors and Roles − xApp Subscription Management; − E2 Termination.
- E2 Node: Originator of RIC Subscription Delete Required.
Assumptions • Near-RT RIC platform maintains the records of E2 subscriptions;
- E2 Node has active E2 interface to Near-RT RIC;
- Near-RT RIC has recovered complete list of active RAN Functions on E2 Node and
informed xApps; Pre conditions • Near-RT RIC platform has been configured to accept incoming RIC subscription removal request from an E2 Node;
- Near-RT RIC platform has been configured to permit RIC Subscription removal request
from an E2 Node. E2 Node determines a need to request removal of some RIC subscriptions that has been Begins when subscribed toward itself from Near-RT RIC. E2 Node sends RIC Subscription Delete Required (a list of RIC Request IDs and RAN Step 1 (M) Function IDs with cause). [LOOP] Steps 2-12 are looped for each Subscription requested to be deleted: Near-RT RIC platform checks the subscription records to find the list of xApps associated Step 2 (M) with RIC subscription requested to be deleted from the E2 Node. [OPT] Steps 3-5 may be executed. For each xApp with RIC Subscription requested to be deleted: Near-RT RIC platform sends E2 related API: E2 Subscription Delete Query Required Step 3 (O) to xApp (with E2 Node ID, E2 Request ID and Cause) to request xApp advice on required subscription deletion. If xApp accepts, xApp responds with E2 related API: E2 Subscription Delete Query Step 4 (O) Accept to Near-RT RIC platform (with E2 Node ID, E2 Request ID). If xApp rejects, xApp responds with E2 related API: E2 Subscription Delete Query Step 5 (O) Decline to Near-RT RIC platform (with E2 Node ID, E2 Request ID). Step 6 (M) Near-RT RIC platform takes decision whether to accept/reject RIC subscription delete. [OPT] Steps 7-12 are executed if Near-RT RIC platform accepts: Near-RT RIC platform selects appropriate E2 interface and sends RIC Subscription Step 7 (M) Delete Request (RIC Request ID) to E2 Node. [ALT] Steps 8-10 are executed if E2 Node accepts Subscription Delete: Step 8 (M) E2 Node responds with RIC Subscription Delete Response. Near-RT RIC platform updates the subscription records, and deletes the distribution Step 9 (M) list associated with the E2 Node ID and the RIC Request ID. For each concerned xApp, Near-RT RIC platform sends E2 related API: E2 Step 10 (M) Subscription Delete Notification (with E2 Node ID, E2 Request ID, Cause) to inform xApp that subscription has been deleted. [ELSE] Steps 11-12 are executed if E2 Node rejects Subscription Delete: Step 11 (M) E2 Node responds with RIC Subscription Delete Failure (with Cause). Near-RT RIC platform decides subsequent processing (e.g., retry RIC Subscription Step 12 (M) Delete). The failure outcome is not needed to inform the xApp. [ELSE] Step 13 is executed if E2 Node fails to respond prior to E2AP timer expires Near-RT RIC platform E2AP timer expires and decides subsequent processing (e.g., Step 13 (M) retry RIC Subscription Delete). The failure outcome is not needed to inform the xApp. xApp Near RT RIC platform E Node 1. E RIC CRI TION E ETE RE IRE . Check subscription records for concerned xApps (RIC Request I E Node I ) 3. (E related A I) E ubscription elete uery (Required E Node I E Request I Cause) 4. (E related A I) E ubscription elete uery (Accept E Node I E Request I ) 5. (E related A I) E ubscription elete uery ( ecline E Node I E Request I ) . Accept Reject decision 7. E RIC CRI TION E ETE RE E T . E RIC CRI TION E ETE RE ON E . pdate subscription records and delete the distribution list 10. (E related A I) E ubscription elete Notification ( eleted E Node I E Request I Cause) 11. E RIC CRI TION E ETE AI RE

#### 9.3.2.3 E2 Indication procedure
The purpose of the E2 Indication procedure in the Near-RT RIC is to ensure delivery of RIC INDICATION messages to one or more validated xApps. This procedure is based on the following assumptions:
- Near-RT RIC platform maintains a list for each E2 Node of validated xApps and the corresponding assigned E2
Request ID and E2 Action ID(s) associated with an E2 node ID, RIC REQUEST ID and RIC Action ID(s);
- E2 related API ensures delivery of E2 Indication messages from Near-RT RIC platform to all validated xApp;
- Near-RT RIC platform may support distribution of messages to multiple destinations.
The following outcomes are considered:
- Message is received, using E2 related API: E2 Indication (push), and successfully processed by xApp;
- Message is received, using E2 related API: E2 Indication (push), but an error is detected by the xApp and so declined
using an E2 related API: E2 Indication (failure) from xApp for a specific E2 Node, E2 Request ID, E2 Action ID and E2 Indication SN. Response contains Cause (i.e., Request contents not accepted by xApp). Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Goal E2 Indication procedure from E2 Node initiation to xApp reception.
- xApp: Originator of RIC subscription request;
- Near-RT RIC platform, with the following functionalities:
− Database; Actors and Roles − xApp Subscription Management; − E2 Termination.
- E2 Node: Originator of RIC Indication procedure.
- For RIC Indication procedures, Near-RT RIC platform uses E2 related API to directly
Assumptions send received messages to one or more xApp.
- E2 Node has active E2 interface to Near-RT RIC;
- Near-RT RIC has recovered complete list of active RAN Functions on E2 Node and
Pre conditions informed initiating xApp;
- Near-RT RIC platform has distribution list associating Indication messages with
xApps. E2 Node creates RIC Indication Message (RIC Request ID, RAN Function ID, RIC Action ID, Begins when optional RIC Indication SN, Indication Type, Indication Header, Indication Message, optional Call Process ID). Step 1 (M) E2 Node sends RIC Indication message to Near-RT RIC platform. Near-RT RIC platform checks distribution list for E2 Node ID, RIC REQUEST ID, RAN Step 2 (M) Function ID, RIC Action ID. Near-RT RIC platform sends E2 related API: E2 Indication (push, E2 Node ID, E2 Request Step 3 (M) ID, E2 Action ID, E2 Indication SN, Message) to xApp(s). If an error is detected in the received message, the xApp may send E2 related API: E2 Step 4 (O) Indication (failure, E2 Node ID, E2 Request ID, E2 Action ID, E2 Indication SN, Cause). Step 5 (O) The Near-RT RIC platform may send an appropriate E2AP procedure message

#### 9.3.2.4 E2 Control procedure
The purpose of the E2 Control procedure in the Near-RT RIC is to ensure that only authorized xApp may initiate RIC Control Request messages issued by the Near-RT RIC over the E2 interface to the E2 Node. This procedure is based on the following assumptions:
- xApp may obtain guidance from Near-RT RIC platform to resolve potential conflicts prior to sending a E2 Control
Request (see clause 9.3.3.1);
- xApp has been configured with a trusted xApp ID;
- Near-RT RIC platform may be configured to route E2 Control Request messages for a E2 node from xApp either to
trigger conflict mitigation for acceptance or directly towards an appropriate E2interface;
- Near-RT RIC platform ensures that only authorized xApp may send E2 Control Request messages to appropriate E2
interface;
- Near-RT RIC platform ensures that it systematically forwards any received RIC Control Response or RIC Control
Failure to appropriate xApp. The procedure is initiated by an xApp using E2 Related API: E2 Control request to send a request of a RIC Control for an E2 Node. The following outcomes are considered:
- Request successful following acceptance by Near-RT RIC platform and accepted by E2 Node and so an E2 Related
API: E2 Control response (Success with outcome) is sent to xApp following corresponding E2 transaction;
- Request fails following acceptance by Near-RT RIC platform but is either rejected by E2 Node or corresponding
E2AP timer expires prior to a response from E2 Node and so an E2 Related API: E2 Control response (Failure with cause) is sent to xApp following corresponding E2 interface transaction (i.e., Request contents is not compliant, E2AP timeout, etc.);
- Request rejected by Near-RT Platform and so an E2 Related API: E2 Control response (Reject) is sent to xApp (i.e.,
rejected due to conflict mitigation). Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Goal E2 Control procedure from xApp initiation to E2 Node and response.
- xApp: Originator of E2 Control request;
- Near-RT RIC platform, with the following functionalities:
Actors and Roles − E2 Termination.
- E2 Node: RIC Control procedure.
- For E2 Control procedures, Near-RT RIC platform may forward the xApp's control
request directly to the E2 interface; Assumptions
- Near-RT RIC platform has access to sufficient information to both detect a potential
conflict and take a decision on an optimal mitigation solution.
- E2 Node has active E2 interface to Near-RT RIC;
- Near-RT RIC has recovered complete list of active RAN Functions on E2 Node and
informed initiating xApp;
- xApp has been authorized to send RIC Control requests for a specific scope (E2 Node
Pre-conditions list, RAN Function, etc.);
- xApp has been authorized to request guidance from Near-RT RIC platform;
- Near-RT RIC platform has been configured to accept incoming E2 Control requests
from authorized xApp and, either trigger conflict mitigation or forward directly to E2interface. xApp determines need to propose RIC Control procedure for a E2 Node and defines message Begins when contents (RAN Function ID, Call process ID, Control Header, Control message). xApp may request E2 related API: E2 Guidance from Near-RT RIC platform (see clause Step 1 (O) 9.3.3.1 for details) xApp sends E2 related API: E2 Control request with message contents (RAN Function ID, Call Step 2 (M) process ID, Control Header, Control message) for an E2 Node. Step 3 (M) Near-RT RIC platform processes request. [ALT] Step 4 is executed if Near-RT RIC platform rejects proposed E2 Control message. Step 4 (M) E2 related API: E2 Control response (Reject with Cause) message is sent to xApp. [ELSE] Step 5-10 are executed if Near-RT RIC platform accepts proposed E2 Control message: Near-RT RIC platform selects appropriate E2 interface and assigns an appropriate RIC Step 5 (M) Request ID. Step 6 (M) Near-RT RIC platform sends RIC Control Request (RIC Request ID, contents) to E2 Node. [ALT] Steps 7-8 are executed if E2 Node accepts RIC Control Request: Step 7 (M) E2 Node responds with RIC Control Acknowledge. Near-RT RIC platform sends E2 Related API: E2 Control response (Success with Step 8 (M) Outcome) to xApp. [ELSE] Steps 9-10 are executed if E2 Node rejects RIC Control Request: Step 9 (M) E2 Node responds with RIC Control Failure (with Cause). Near-RT RIC platform sends E2 Related API: E2 Control response (Failure with Cause) Step 10 (M) to xApp. [ELSE] Step 11 is executed if E2 Node fails to respond prior to E2AP timer expires Near-RT RIC platform E2AP timer expires and sends E2 Related API: E2 Control Step 11 (M) response (Failure with Cause) to xApp. xApp Near RT RIC platform E Node

# E RIC CONTRO RE E T

# 7 E RIC CONTRO AC NO E E
. (E related A I) E Control ( uccess)

# E RIC CONTRO AI RE
10. (E related A I) E Control ( ailure) 11a. E A time out 11b. (E related A I) E Control ( ailure) xApp Near RT RIC platform E Node

#### 9.3.2.5 E2 Subscription Audit procedure
The purpose of the E2 Subscription Audit procedure in the Near-RT RIC is to enable an xApp to initiate an audit of one or more existing E2 subscriptions. This procedure is based on the following assumptions:
- xApp has been configured with a trusted xApp ID;
- Near-RT RIC platform maintains all active subscriptions towards the E2 Node listed in xApp’s E2 Subscription Audit
request and is able to detect when and if the audit request shall result in a corresponding E2 message;
- Near-RT RIC platform routes the subscription audit requests to an appropriate E2 interface;
- Near-RT RIC platform maintains a mapping of active subscriptions (identified on E2 interface by E2 Node ID and
RIC Request ID) of the validated xApps. Near-RT RIC platform uses the mapping when sending RIC INDICATION messages to the correct xApp; The procedure initiated by an xApp uses E2 Related API: E2 Subscription Audit to request subscription audit for a specific E2 Node. The following outcomes are considered:
- Request fails following rejection by Near-RT RIC platform and an E2 Related API: E2 Subscription Audit
response (Reject) is sent to xApp without E2 interface transaction (i.e., xApp not previously associated with one or more validated subscription);
- Request succeeds following acceptance by Near-RT RIC platform and accepted by E2 Node, and an E2 Related API:
E2 Subscription Audit response (Success) is sent to xApp following corresponding E2 interface transaction;
- Request succeeds following acceptance by Near-RT RIC platform and an E2 Related API: E2 Subscription Audit
response (Success) is sent to xApp without E2 interface transaction;
- Request fails following acceptance by Near-RT RIC platform but is either rejected by E2 Node or corresponding
E2AP timer expires prior to a response from E2 Node, and an E2 Related API: E2 Subscription Audit response (Failure) is sent to xApp following corresponding E2 interface transaction (i.e., RIC Request ID is not known by E2 Node, E2AP timeout, etc.);
- Request fails following acceptance by Near-RT RIC platform and an E2 Related API: E2 Subscription Audit
response (Failure) is sent to xApp without E2 interface transaction. This procedure may result in the Near-RT RIC platform issuing E2 related API: E2 Subscription Delete Notification (with E2 Node ID, E2 Request ID, Cause) message(s) to inform other xApp that a subscription has been deleted. This may also occur if the Near-RT RIC platform independently initiates a RIC Subscription Audit procedure. Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Goal E2 Subscription Audit procedure from xApp initiation to E2 Node and response.
- xApp: Originator of E2 Subscription Audit request;
- Near-RT RIC platform, with the following functionalities:
− Database; Actors and Roles − xApp Subscription Management; − E2 Termination.
- E2 Node: Handling RIC Subscription Audit procedure.
Assumptions • Near-RT RIC platform maintains the E2 subscription records;
- E2 Node has active E2 interface to Near-RT RIC;
- Near-RT RIC has recovered complete list of active RAN Functions on E2 Node and
Pre conditions informed initiating xApp;
- Near-RT RIC platform has been configured to permit RIC Subscription Audit requests
from xApp. xApp determines need to request E2 Subscription Audit for a specific E2 Node ID and one or Begins when more E2 Request ID. xApp sends E2 related API: E2 Subscription Audit request for a specific E2 Node and one or Step 1 (M) more E2 request ID. Near-RT RIC platform confirms that xApp proposing E2 Subscription Audit has an active Step 2 (M) subscription associated with each E2 Request ID in the list provided by the xApp. Step 3 (M) Near-RT RIC platform accepts or rejects proposal from xApp. [ALT] Step 4 is executed if Near-RT RIC platform rejects the proposal: Near-RT RIC platform sends E2 related API: E2 Subscription Audit response to xApp Step 4 (M) (Reject with Cause for specific E2 Node and one or more E2 Request ID). [ELSE] Steps 5-15 are executed if Near-RT RIC platform accepts the proposal. [ALT] Steps 5-12 are executed if the Near-RT RIC executes a corresponding E2 interface transaction. Near-RT RIC platform selects appropriate E2 interface and sends RIC Subscription Step 5 (M) Audit Request (one or more RIC Request ID including subscriptions from xApp) to E2 Node. [ALT] Steps 6-7 are executed if E2 Node accepts Subscription Audit: E2 Node responds with RIC Subscription Audit Response, with lists of confirmed, Step 6 (M) unknown and/or missing subscriptions. Near-RT RIC platform sends E2 related API: E2 Subscription Audit response to Step 7 (M) xApp (Success). [ELSE] Steps 8-9 are executed if E2 Node rejects Subscription Audit: Step 8 (M) E2 Node responds with RIC Subscription Audit Failure (with Cause). Near-RT RIC platform sends E2 related API: E2 Subscription Audit response to Step 9 (M) xApp (Failure with Cause). [ELSE] Step 10 is executed if E2 Node fails to respond prior to E2AP timer expires Near-RT RIC platform E2AP timer expires and sends E2 Related API: E2 Step 10 (M) Subscription Audit response (Failure with Cause) to xApp. Step 11 (M) Near-RT RIC platform updates subscription records. If one or more subscriptions are listed as missing, then the Near-RT RIC platform may Step 12 (O) initiate RIC Subscription Delete procedure to delete subscription on E2 Node. [ELSE] Steps 13-14 are executed if the Near-RT RIC determines that xApp response may be generated without a corresponding E2 interface transaction. [ALT] Step 12 is executed if the result is a success: Near-RT RIC platform sends E2 related API: E2 Subscription Audit response to Step 13 (M) xApp (Success). [ELSE] Step 14 is executed if the result is a failure: Near-RT RIC platform sends E2 related API: E2 Subscription Audit response to Step 14 (M) xApp (Failure with Cause). If one or more subscriptions are listed as unknown, then Near-RT RIC platform may send E2 Step 15 (O) related API: E2 Subscription Delete Notification (with E2 Node ID, E2 Request ID, Cause) to inform concerned xApps that subscription has been deleted. xApp Other xApp Near RT RIC platform E Node

# 3 Accept Reject decision

# 4 (E related A I) E ubscription Audit
(Reject E Node I ist of E Request I Cause)

# E RIC CRI TION A IT RE E T
(Audit flag ist of RIC Request I )

# E RIC CRI TION A IT RE ON E
(Confirmed nknown and or issing list of RIC Request I )

# 7 (E related A I) E ubscription Audit
( uccess E Node I Confirmed nknown and or issing list of E Request I )

# E RIC CRI TION A IT AI RE
(E related A I) E ubscription Audit ( ailure E Node I Cause) 10a. E A time out 10b. (E related A I) E ubscription Audit ( ailure) pdate the subscription records

# 13 (E related A I) E ubscription Audit
( uccess E Node I Confirmed nknown and or issing list of E Request I )

# 14 (E related A I) E ubscription Audit
( ailure E Node I Cause) 15a (E related A I) E ubscription elete Notification ( eleted E Node I E Request I Cause) 15b (E related A I) E ubscription elete Notification ( eleted E Node I E Request I Cause) xApp Other xApp Near RT RIC platform E Node

#### 9.3.2.6 E2 Query procedure
The purpose of the E2 Query procedure in the Near-RT RIC is to ensure that only authorized xApp may initiate RIC Query Request messages issued by the Near-RT RIC over the E2 interface to the E2 Node. This procedure is based on the following assumptions:
- xApp has been configured with a trusted xApp ID;
- Near-RT RIC platform may be configured to route E2 Query Request messages for a E2 node from xApp trigger
directly towards an appropriate E2interface;
- Near-RT RIC platform ensures that only authorized xApp may send E2 Query Request messages to appropriate E2
interface;
- Near-RT RIC platform ensures that it systematically forwards any received RIC Query Response or RIC Query
Failure to appropriate xApp. The procedure is initiated by an xApp using E2 Related API: E2 Query request to send a request of a RIC Query for an E2 Node. The following outcomes are considered:
- Request successful following acceptance by Near-RT RIC platform and accepted by E2 Node and so an E2 Related
API: E2 Query response (Success with outcome) is sent to xApp following corresponding E2 transaction;
- Request fails following acceptance by Near-RT RIC platform but is either rejected by E2 Node or corresponding
E2AP timer expires prior to a response from E2 Node and so an E2 Related API: E2 Query response (Failure with cause) is sent to xApp following corresponding E2 interface transaction (i.e., Request contents is not compliant, E2AP timeout, etc.);
- Request rejected by Near-RT Platform and so an E2 Related API: E2 Query response (Reject) is sent to xApp.
Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Goal E2 Query procedure from xApp initiation to E2 Node and response.
- xApp: Originator of E2 Query request;
- Near-RT RIC platform, with the following functionalities:
Actors and Roles − E2 Termination.
- E2 Node: RIC Query procedure.
- For E2 Query procedures, Near-RT RIC platform may forward the xApp's query request
Assumptions directly to the E2 interface;
- E2 Node has active E2 interface to Near-RT RIC;
- Near-RT RIC has recovered complete list of active RAN Functions on E2 Node and
informed initiating xApp; Pre-conditions
- xApp has been authorized to send RIC Query requests for a specific scope (E2 Node
list, RAN Function, etc.);
- Near-RT RIC platform has been configured to permit RIC Query requests from xApp.
xApp determines need to propose RIC Query procedure for a E2 Node and defines message Begins when contents (RAN Function ID, Query Header, Query Definition). xApp sends E2 related API: E2 Query request with message contents (RAN Function ID, Step 1 (M) Query Header, Query Definition) for an E2 Node. Step 2 (M) Near-RT RIC platform processes request. [ALT] Step 3 is executed if Near-RT RIC platform rejects proposed E2 Query message. Step 3 (M) E2 related API: E2 Query response (Reject with Cause) message is sent to xApp. [ELSE] Step 4-10 are executed if Near-RT RIC platform accepts proposed E2 Query message: Near-RT RIC platform selects appropriate E2 interface and assigns an appropriate RIC Step 4 (M) Request ID. Step 5 (M) Near-RT RIC platform sends RIC Query Request (RIC Request ID, contents) to E2 Node. [ALT] Steps 6-7 are executed if E2 Node accepts RIC Query Request: Step 6 (M) E2 Node responds with RIC Query Response Near-RT RIC platform sends E2 Related API: E2 Query response (Success with Step 7 (M) Outcome) to xApp. [ELSE] Steps 8-9 are executed if E2 Node rejects RIC Query Request: Step 8 (M) E2 Node responds with RIC Query Failure (with Cause). Near-RT RIC platform sends E2 Related API: E2 Query response (Failure with Cause) Step 9 (M) to xApp. [ELSE] Step 10 is executed if E2 Node fails to respond prior to E2AP timer expires Near-RT RIC platform E2AP timer expires and sends E2 Related API: E2 Query Step 10 (M) response (Failure with Cause) to xApp.

#### 9.3.2.7 E2 Subscription Modification procedure
The purpose of the E2 Subscription Modification procedure in the Near-RT RIC is to ensure that only validated RIC Subscription Modification Request messages are issued by the Near-RT RIC over the E2 interface to the E2 Node are handled gracefully. This procedure is based on the following assumptions:
- xApp may obtain guidance from Near-RT RIC Platform (i.e., conflict mitigation processing) to resolve potential
conflicts and/or detect partial duplications prior to sending a E2 Subscription Modification Request (see clause 9.3.3.1);
- xApp has been configured with a trusted xApp ID;
- Near-RT RIC platform maintains all previous successful RIC Subscriptions towards the E2 Node listed in xApp’s E2
Subscription request and is able to detect duplications and recover E2 Node response messages;
- Near-RT RIC platform may leverage its conflict mitigation functionality in managing E2 subscriptions (see clause
9.3.3.5);
- Near-RT RIC platform decides initiation of appropriate E2AP procedure(s), if needed, to fulfil the E2 Subscription
request.
- E2 Request ID is used on E2-related APIs to identify an active RIC subscription. Near-RT Platform maintains the 1:1
mapping between E2 Request ID, used on E2 related APIs, and RIC Request ID, used on E2 interface.
- Near-RT RIC platform routes the subscription moodification requests to an appropriate E2interface;
- Near-RT RIC platform maintains a mapping of active Subscriptions (identified on E2 interface by E2 Node ID and
RIC Request ID) of validated xApps. Near-RT RIC platform uses the mapping when sending E2 INDICATION messages to the correct xApp or xApps.
- Near-RT RIC platform sends the E2 Subscription Modification response prior to sending any associated E2 Indication
message to the xApp. The procedure initiated by an xApp uses E2 Related API: E2 Subscription Modification to request subscription modify for a specific E2 Node. The following outcomes are considered:
- Request fails following rejection by Near-RT RIC platform and an E2 Related API: E2 Subscription Modification
response (Reject) is sent to xApp without E2 interface transaction (i.e., xApp not previously associated with validated subscription);
- Request succeeds following acceptance by Near-RT RIC without initiating a corresponding E2 transaction; and an E2
Related API: E2 Subscription Modification response (Success) is sent to xApp;
- Request succeeds following acceptance by Near-RT RIC platform and accepted by E2 Node, and an E2 Related API:
E2 Subscription Modification response (Success) is sent to xApp following corresponding E2 transaction;
- Request fails following acceptance by Near-RT RIC platform but is either rejected by E2 Node or corresponding
E2AP timer expires prior to a response from E2 Node, and an E2 Related API: E2 Subscription Modification response (Failure) is sent to xApp following corresponding E2 interface transaction (i.e., RIC Request ID is not known by E2 Node, time out, etc.); Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Goal E2 Subscription Modification procedure from xApp initiation to E2 Node and response.
- xApp: Originator of E2 Subscription Modification request;
- Near-RT RIC platform, with the following functionalities:
− Database; Actors and Roles − xApp Subscription Management; − Conflict Mitigation; − E2 Termination.
- E2 Node: Handling RIC Subscription Modification procedure.
- Near-RT RIC platform maintains the E2 subscription records;
- Near-RT RIC platform has access to sufficient information to both detect a potential
Assumptions conflict and take a decision on an optimal mitigation solution;
- Near-RT RIC platform may generate guidance for internal processes and/or xApp as an
optional addition response to Guidance Request.
- E2 Node has active E2 interface to Near-RT RIC;
- Near-RT RIC has recovered complete list of active RAN Functions on E2 Node and
informed initiating xApp; Pre conditions • xApp has been authorized to issue E2 Subscription Modification API Requests;
- xApp has been authorized to request guidance from Near-RT RIC platform;
- Near-RT RIC platform has been configured to permit RIC Subscription Modification
requests from xApp. xApp determines need to request E2 Subscription Modification for a specific E2 Node ID and E2 Begins when Request ID. xApp can request optional E2 related API: E2 Guidance from Near-RT RIC platform (see clause Step 1 (O) 9.3.3.1 for details). xApp sends E2 related API: E2 Subscription Modification request for a specific E2 Node and Step 2 (M) E2 request ID. Near-RT RIC platform, after optional conflict mitigation processing (see clause 9.3.3.5 for Step 3 (M) details), accepts or rejects proposal from xApp for specific E2 Node. [ALT] Step 4 is executed if Near-RT RIC platform rejects the proposal: Near-RT RIC platform sends E2 related API: E2 Subscription Modification response to Step 4 (M) xApp (Reject with Cause for specific E2 Node). [ELSE] Steps 5-17 are executed if Near-RT RIC platform accepts the proposal: Near-RT RIC platform checks the subscription records to determine whether or not xApp Step 5 (M) proposing Subscription Modification is the only associated xApp. [ALT] Steps 6-12 are executed if the xApp proposing Subscription Modification is the only xApp associated with the subscription (i.e., a given RIC Request ID): Near-RT RIC platform selects appropriate E2 interface and sends RIC Subscription Step 6 (M) Modification Request (RIC Request ID) to E2 Node. [ALT] Steps 7-9 are executed if E2 Node accepts Subscription Modification: Step 7 (M) E2 Node responds with RIC Subscription Modification Response. Near-RT RIC platform updates the subscription records, and modify the distribution Step 8 (M) list(s) associated with the E2 Node ID and the RIC Request ID. Near-RT RIC platform sends E2 related API: E2 Subscription Modification Step 9 (M) response to xApp (Success). [ELSE] Steps 10-11 are executed if E2 Node rejects Subscription Modification: Step 10 (M) E2 Node responds with RIC Subscription Modification Failure (with Cause). Near-RT RIC platform sends E2 related API: E2 Subscription Modification Step 11 (M) response to xApp (Failure with Cause). [ELSE] Step 12 is executed if E2 Node fails to respond prior to E2AP timer expires Near-RT RIC platform E2AP timer expires and sends E2 related API: E2 Step 12 (M) Subscription Modification response (Failure with Cause) to xApp. [ELSE] Steps 13-17 are executed if the xApp proposing Subscription Modification is one of a number of xApp associated with the subscription (i.e., a given RIC Request ID): [ALT] Steps 13-14 executed if the proposal can be fulfilled with existing subscription(s) (i.e., one or more records found for E2 Node ID with Subscription matching the same contents): Near-RT RIC platform updates the subscription records. For each Action in Step 13 (M) subscription corresponding to an Indication message, Near-RT RIC platform adds xApp ID to distribution list associated with E2 Node ID, RIC Request ID and Action ID. xApp Subscription Management sends E2 Related API: E2 Subscription Step 14 (M) Modification response to xApp (Success, E2 Node ID, corresponding E2 Request ID(s) and E2 Action ID(s)). [ELSE] Steps 15-17 are executed if the subscription proposed by xApp necessitates E2AP procedure(s) (i.e., no record found for E2 Node ID with Subscription matching the same contents): Near-RT RIC platform selects appropriate E2 interface and initiates appropriate E2AP Step 15 (M) procedure(s) to E2 Node. [ALT] Step 16 is executed if the E2AP procedure(s) in Step 15 succeeds: Near-RT RIC platform sends E2 related API: E2 Subscription Modification Step 16 (M) response to xApp (Success, E2 Node ID, corresponding E2 Request ID(s) and E2 Action ID(s)). [ELSE] Step 17 is executed if the E2AP procedure(s) in Step 15 fails: Near-RT RIC platform sends E2 related API: E2 Subscription Modification Step 17 (M) response to xApp (Failure with Cause, E2 Node ID).

### 9.3.3 E2 Conflict Mitigation related procedures

#### 9.3.3.1 E2 Guidance procedure
The purpose of the xApp initiated E2 Guidance request/response API procedure in the Near-RT RIC is to allow authorized xApp to obtain guidance from the Near-RT RIC platform (with the conflict mitigation functionality) prior to initiating an action. Guidance from Near-RT RIC platform may include:
- Indication on whether or not the xApp proposed E2 Related API message or series of messages may result in a
conflict with E2 related API messages from other xApps;
- Recommendations on how the proposed E2 Related message or series of messages should be modified to avoid
conflict;
- Modification of previous guidance to other xApps and/or Near-RT RIC platform internal processes.
This procedure is based on the following assumptions:
- xApp may use E2 Related API to obtain guidance from Near-RT RIC platform to resolve potential conflicts prior to
initiating a RIC function procedure;
- xApp may use Near-RT RIC platform response in a subsequent procedure (i.e., for a RIC Functional Procedure).
This procedure is initiated by an xApp using E2 Related API: E2 Guidance request. The following outcomes are considered:
- Near-RT RIC Platform provides guidance to requesting xApp using E2 Related API: E2 Guidance response;
- Near-RT RIC Platform provides modified guidance to another xApp and/or its internal processes.
Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Goal xApp initiation of Conflict Mitigation guidance.
- xApp: Originator of Conflict Mitigation guidance request;
- Near-RT RIC platform, with the following functionalities:
Actors and Roles − Database; − Conflict mitigation.
- Near-RT RIC platform has access to sufficient information to both detect a potential
conflict and take a decision on an optimal mitigation solution; Assumptions
- Near-RT RIC platform may initiate guidance towards other xApp as an optional addition
response to Guidance Request.
- xApp has been authorized to request guidance from Near-RT RIC platform for conflict
Pre-conditions mitigation;
- xApp has been assigned xApp ID.
Begins when xApp determines need to request guidance from Near-RT RIC platform for conflict mitigation. Step 1 (M) xApp sends E2 Related API E2 Guidance Request to Near-RT RIC platform. Step 2 (M) Near-RT RIC platform collects related information. Step 3 (M) Near-RT RIC platform processes request. Near-RT RIC platform may signal conflict and/or provide guidance to internal processes and/or Step 4-5 (O) other xApps (see clause 9.3.3.5). Step 6 (M) Near-RT RIC platform sends E2 Related API E2 Guidance response to xApp. Ends with xApp continues processing using guidance response.

#### 9.3.3.2 Void

#### 9.3.3.3 Void

#### 9.3.3.4 Void

#### 9.3.3.5 E2 Guidance modification procedure
The purpose of the E2 Guidance modification procedure is to allow Near-RT RIC platform to signal a modified guidance to the xApp, which can be triggered by the Near-RT RIC platform’s internal process (e.g., xApp subscription management), or by a message from the other xApps or external interfaces. The guidance may also be used for Near-RT RIC platform internal purposes. Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Goal Near-RT RIC platform indicates guidance to an xApp without request from the xApp.
- xApp
- Near-RT RIC platform, with the following functionalities:
Actors and Roles − Database − Conflict mitigation
- External entity (e.g., E2 Node)
- Near-RT RIC platform is capable of collecting related information, and
Assumptions generating proper guidance for an xApp.
- Message from xApp, message from external interfaces, or Near-RT RIC
Pre-conditions platform’s internal process triggers conflict mitigation in Near-RT RIC platform. Near-RT RIC platform identifies affected xApps and performs conflict mitigation Step 1 (M) processing. Near-RT RIC platform may provide guidance to the affected xApp using E2 Guidance Step 2 (O) modification message. Step 3 (O) Near-RT RIC platform may also use the guidance for internal purposes.

#### 9.3.3.6 E2 Conflict Mitigation Assistance procedure
The purpose of the Near-RT RIC platform initiated E2 Conflict Mitigation Assistance request/response API procedure in the Near-RT RIC is to allow authorized helper and conflicting xApps to provide assistance to Near-RT RIC platform during conflict detection, conflict avoidance, and conflict resolution. Assistance from helper and conflicting xApps may consist of the following:
- Helper xApp: E2SM processing related to conflict detection, avoidance, and resolution. This may include a helper
xApp providing the platform with support for data analysis, optimization, or other E2SM related computations;
- Helper xApp: Assistance may include a helper xApp collecting and processing relevant data from E2 Nodes or Near-
RT RIC platform;
- Conflicting xApps: Assitance for computation of an avoidance solution, e.g., conflicting xApps may agree to a
platform-recommended mutually exclusive subset of E2SM defined RIC services;
- Conflicting xApps: Upon request, conflicting xApps may provide the platform with E2SM related information (e.g.,
RIC services, RAN parameters or RAN KPIs of interest to xApps and preferences regarding these). This procedure is based on the following assumptions:
- Whether an xApp supports a certain type of assistance listed above is assumed to be known to the platform before
requesting the assistance;
- The Near-RT RIC platform can request assistance from an xApp if and only if the xApp supports it. Furthermore, the
decision to request this assistance is Near-RT RIC platform implementation specific. This procedure is initiated by Near-RT RIC platform using E2 Related API: E2 Conflict Mitigation Assistance request. The xApps provide the required assitance using E2 Related API: E2 Conflict Mitigation Assistance response. The procedure for E2 Conflict Mitigation Assistance for conflict detection, avoidance, or resolution is provided below: Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Near-RT RIC platform initiated Conflict mitigation (detection, avoidance or resolution) using E2 Goal Conflict Mitigation Assistance.
- Conflicting or potentially conflicting xApps, as producers of E2 Conflict Mitigation
assistance (towards Near-RT RIC platform) related to detection, avoidance, or resolution of conflicts. This assistance may comprise the following: − Assitance for computation of an avoidance solution; − Providing the platform with E2SM related information relevant to a conflict. Actors and Roles
- Helper xApp as producer of E2 Conflict Mitigation assistance (towards Near-RT RIC
platform) which may comprise the following: − E2AP and E2SM processing support to the platform; − Data analysis, optimization, and data collection from platform or E2 Nodes;
- Near-RT RIC platform as consumer of E2 Conflict Mitigation assistance,
- Near-RT RIC platform has access to sufficient information to detect a potential conflict;
- xApps can provide assistance for conflict mitigation to the Near-RT RIC platform;
Assumptions
- Near-RT RIC platform has access to sufficient information to determine which xApps
offer which type of conflict mitigation assistance.
- A previous event (e.g., xApp initiated E2 Guidance Request or E2 Subscription/Control
Request) has triggered conflict mitigation in the Near-RT RIC Platform. Pre-conditions
- In response, the platform has triggered one of the conflict detection, avoidance or
resolution processes. Begins when A triggering event as mentioned in the pre-conditions. Step 1 (M) Near-RT RIC platform detects potential conflict. Near-RT RIC platform identifies potentially conflicting xApps and triggers conflict detection, Step 2 (M) avoidance, or resolution Step 3 (O) Near-RT RIC platform sends E2 Conflict Mitigation Assistance request to xApps. Step 4 (O) xApps process the request and generate Assistance information. Step 5 (O) xApps send E2 Conflict Mitigation Assistance response to Near-RT RIC platform. [ALT] Steps 6-8 are executed if the Near-RT RIC platform opts to use helper xApp for E2SM processing and intelligence. Step 6 (M) Near-RT RIC platform sends E2 Conflict Mitigation Assistance to the helper xApp. The helper xApp may gather additional information from the platform (e.g., any available Step 7A (O) dependency information between RAN control parameters and KPIs) or E2 Nodes (e.g., KPIs) using appropriate procedures. Step 7B (M) Helper xApp procesess the request and generates the Assistance information. Step 8 (M) Helper xApp sends E2 Conflict Mitigation Assistance response to Near-RT RIC platform. [ELSE] Step 9 is executed if Near-RT RIC platform does not opt for assistance from a helper xApp. Step 9 (M) Near-RT RIC platform perform the required E2SM processing itself. Near-RT RIC platform generates the information/result related to detection, avoidance, or Step 10 (M) resolution. Ends with Conflict detection, avoidance, or resolution.

## 9.4 Management API Procedures
9.4.1 xApp Registration procedure This procedure registers the xApp to the Near-RT RIC platform so that it can be managed by the SMO via the Near-RT RIC platform. When the xApp is deployed, it will register itself as a managed application to the Near-RT RIC platform by passing the relevant info through the API. Relevant info may include the xApp name, vendor, software version, YANG schemas for configuration management, faults raised, metrics generated, ports for messaging, supported commands (e.g., health check, aliveness probe) and other information needed by the Near-RT RIC platform and/or the SMO for managing the xApp. In response to an xApp Registration, Near-RT RIC platform performs the following:
- Authenticates the xApp;
- Validates that this xApp can run on this Near-RT RIC platform; e.g., RIC has the capacity;
- Assigns an ID to the xApp;
- May act as Registration Authority (RA) of the operator Certification Authority (CA), and fetch from the CA a new
End Entity (EE) operator certificate for the xApp containing the assigned xApp ID in SubjectAltName (SAN) field.
> NOTE: Refer to [22] clause 5.1.3.2 for more detailed information on the security procedure.
- Creates an xApp Managed Object Instance (MOI) in the Near-RT RIC Config DB and populates it with the relevant
information passed from the xApp;
- Sends a Notify MOI Creation to SMO if subscribed.
The data type of the xApp ID shall be a character string that uniquely identifies the xApp instance. The format of this string shall be a Universally Unique Identifier (UUID) version 4 (as described in IETF RFC 4122). Use Case <<Uses>> Evolution / Specification Stage Related use To register the newly deployed xApp to the Near-RT RIC Goal platform.
- xApp: originator of the xApp registration procedure;
Actors and
- Near-RT RIC platform, with the following functionalities:
Roles − Management The API channel is established successfully between xApp and Assumptions the Near-RT RIC platform. The xApp is deployed onto the Near-RT RIC platform. As part of the initial configuration security information used in the security Pre conditions procedure defined in [22] clause 5.1.3.2 is provided to the xApp. xApp has established a secure connection with the Near-RT RIC platform. Begins when An xApp is deployed and ready for registration. xApp send xApp registration request to the Near-RT RIC Step 1 (M) platform. passing relevant information needed to manage the xApp. Near-RT RIC platform processes the application registration, which includes (not an exhaustive list):
- Performing authentication and validity checks;
- If the checks pass, assigning an xApp ID for the xApp;
- Performing the security procedure specified in [22]
Step 2 (M) clause 5.1.3.2;
- Creating an xApp Managed Object Instance in the
Near-RT RIC Config DB in compliance with the YANG schemas;
- Populating xApp MOI with the xApp ID and the initial
xApp configuration. The Near-RT RIC platform send the registration response to the Step 3 (M) xApp. If the response indicates the registration fails, it will send the registration response with failure results and failure cause. If SMO has subscribed to CM Notifications from the Near-RT RIC, Near-RT RIC platform formats and sends a Notify MOI Step 4 (O) Creation to SMO to notify SMO that a MOI has been created for a new xApp. 9.4.2 xApp Deregistration procedure This procedure deregisters the xApp from the Near-RT RIC platform. The message flow is not specified in the present document.

### 9.4.3 Void

### 9.4.4 Create MOI
An xApp must be instantiated before its associated MOI can be created. The SMO interacts with the MOI to manage the xApp. The Near-RT RIC platform is responsible for updating the xApp over the Management API to ensure that its attribute values are aligned with those of the MOI. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal To Create a Managed Object Instance for an xApp.
- Near RT-RIC platform
Actors and Roles
- xApp
The API channel is established successfully between xApp and the Near- Assumptions RT RIC platform.
- xApp is instantiated;
Preconditions
- MOI is not yet created.
Begins when Create MOI operation received over O1 Step 1 (M) Near-RT RIC platform sends an APIConfirgurationWrite updating the xApp with the attribute values from the newly created MOI After applying the configuration data to the xApp, a configuration response Step 2 (M) is sent over the management API to the Near-RT RIC platform. Ends when Create MOI Response is sent over O1.

### 9.4.5 Modify MOI attributes
The Near-RT RIC platform is responsible for updating the xApp over the Management API to ensure its attribute values are aligned with those of the MOI. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal To change an existing xApp MOI configuration.
- Near RT-RIC platform
Actors and Roles
- xApp
- The API channel is established successfully between xApp and
Assumptions the Near-RT RIC platform.
- The xApp is installed successfully on the Near-RT RIC platform
Pre conditions and registered to the SMO;
- The MOI for the target xApp already exists.
Near-RT RIC platform receives the configuration message from SMO to Begins when indicate that there’s a configuration update for the xApp. Near-RT RIC platform sends an APIConfirgurationWrite updating the xApp Step 1 (M) with the attribute values contained in the O1 Modify MOI message. Step 2 (M) The xApp sends a Configuration Response. Ends when Near-RT RIC platform notifies SMO of success or error.

### 9.4.6 Delete MOI
This procedure removes the MOI for an an xApp when an edit-config delete request is received from the SMO over the O1 interface. See [5] clause 2.1.3. The SMO sends the deleteMOI request via a NETCONF command over the O1 to the Near-RT RIC platform. The Near-RT RIC platform may optionally take the xApp out of service sending a confirmation of the state change before the MOI gets deleted. Once the MOI is deleted, the Near-RT RIC platform sends a NETCONF response confirming the success or failure to the MnS Consumer (SMO). <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal To remove an existing xApp MOI.
- Near-RT RIC platform
Actors and Roles
- xApps
The API channel is established successfully between xApp and the Near- Assumptions RT RIC platform. Pre conditions The MOI exists on the target Near-RT RIC. Near-RT RIC platform receives the edit-config Delete message from SMO Begins when to indicate that the SMO wants to delete the MOI. Near-RT RIC platform may optionally lock the administrative state of the Step 1 (O) xApp. Step 2 (M) Near-RT RIC platform deletes the MOI. Ends when The MnS Consumer (SMO) receives the O1 response.

### 9.4.7 Read MOI attributes
The O1 Read MOI Attributes service is supported by the xApp API Configuration Read. On receipt of a Read MOI Attributes request for an xApp, the Near-RT RIC platform uses the API Configuration Read to retrieve the current configuration values. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal To Read the current attribute values for an existing xApp MOI.
- Near-RT RIC platform
Actors and Roles
- xApps
- The API channel is established successfully between xApp and
Assumptions the Near-RT RIC platform. Pre conditions • The MOI exists on the target Near-RT RIC. Near-RT RIC platform receives the Read MOI Attributes request from SMO Begins when to indicate that the SMO wants the current xApp attributes. Near-RT RIC platform sends xApp Configuration Read Step 1 (O) (Optional because the information is already available in the MOI in the Near-RT RIC platform ). xApp makes the operational configuration available to the Near-RT RIC Step 2 (O) platform. Ends when The MnS Consumer (SMO) receives the O1 response.

### 9.4.8 Notify MOI changes
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use To notify Near-RT RIC platform that some change has occurred in Goal the xApp configuration
- Near-RT RIC platform
Actors and Roles
- xApps
- The API connection is established successfully between
Assumptions xApp and the Near-RT RIC platform. Pre conditions • The MOI exists on the target Near-RT RIC. [ALT 1] Attribute Value Change Notification (AVCN) The Near-RT RIC platform receives an xApp Notify change message Begins when from the xApp. The Near-RT RIC platform sends O1 Attribute Value Change Step 1 (M) Notification to the O1 Consumer (SMO). [ALT 2] MOI Creation Notification Begins when A Managed Object Instance representing xApp has been created. The Near-RT RIC platform sends O1 MOI Creation Notification to the Step 1 (M) O1 Consumer (SMO). [ALT 3] MOI Deletion Notification Begins when A Managed Object Instance representing xApp has been Deleted. The Near-RT RIC platform sends O1 MOI Deletion Notification to the Step 1(M) O1 Consumer (SMO). [ALL CASES] Ends when The MnS Consumer (SMO) receives the O1 response.

### 9.4.9 Subscription Control
Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Goal Allows a MnS Consumer to subscribe to notifications emitted by a MnS Provider.
- Near-RT RIC platform
Actors and Roles
- xApps
- The API channel is established successfully between xApp and the Near-RT RIC
Assumptions platform. Pre conditions • An MOI exists on the target Near-RT RIC representing the xApp functionality. Near-RT RIC platform receives a Create MOI message with arguments defining the MOI as a Begins when Subscription and associating it with one or more xApps and a consumer (SMO).

# A Subscription Control MOI reflecting the scope and filtering requirements for the subscription is Step 1 (M)
created and associated with the instance of Managed Application representing the xApp. Ends when The MnS Consumer (SMO) receives the O1 response.

### 9.4.10 Fault Notification
This procedure enables the xApps to notify the Near-RT RIC of a Fault Condition. Near-RT RIC platform may create an Alarm notification based on the fault reported over the API, and supplement it with additional information from the Alarm Dictionary. The notification is also used to notify Alarms changes. <<Uses>> Use case stage Evolution/Specification Related use Goal xApp informs the Near-RT RIC of the existence of a Fault condition Actors and Roles • xApp
- Near-RT RIC platform
Assumptions Pre-conditions Begins when A fault condition is detected at the xApp. Step 1 (M) xApp Management API sends a fault notification. Step 2 (M) Near-RT RIC platform determines whether to create an Alarm notification for the fault. Ends when xApp sends Fault Notification to the Near-RT RIC.

### 9.4.11 Fault Supervision Control
The O1 Interface supports the 3GPP “getAlarmList”. The Alarm list for the xApps is maintained on the Near-RT RIC. The xApp can notify the Near-RT RIC platform of a detected fault. Each xApp shall maintain a list of any faults that are active. These faults are notified to the Near RT RIC platform where the necessary Alarms are created. The SMO (consumer) may need to verify which alarms are currently active and so may request that the Near-RT RIC (producer) provides an updated list of Alarms. In order to verify that its Alarm list correctly reflects the state of faults at the xApp, the Near RT RIC platform can request an updated list of faults from the xApp. <<Uses>> Use case stage Evolution/Specification Related use Goal To validate that the Near-RT RIC Alarm list for a given xApp correctly reflects the fault status of that xApp Actors and Roles • SMO
- Near-RT RIC platform
- xApp
Assumptions Pre-conditions Target xApp in service. Begins when O1 consumer (SMO) requests Near-RT RIC platform to fetch the current Alarm List. Step 1 (M) Near-RT RIC platform requests xApp to provide the list of current faults. Step 2 (M) xApp sends list of current faults to Near-RT RIC platform. Ends when O1 consumer (SMO) receives current Alarm list.

### 9.4.12 Performance Data File Reporting
<<Uses>> Use case stage Evolution/Specification Related use Goal xApp informs Near-RT RIC platform that a file is ready and provides the location for that file. Actors and Roles • SMO
- Near-RT RIC platform
- xApp
Assumptions Pre-conditions PerfMetricJob exists and includes a valid stream target value. Begins when PM Streaming configuration created. Step 1 (M) xApp sends API notification that a file is ready also providing the location of that file. Step 2 (M) <<O1>> File Ready notification sent. Ends when SMO receives notification.

### 9.4.13 Report Streamed Data
When the ReportingCtrl Attribute of the PerfMetricJob ([21] Clause 4.3.33) is set to streamTarget, the Near-RT RIC shall stream the PM data to the target consumer destination based on the value of the “streamTarget” attribute. <<Uses>> Use case stage Evolution/Specification Related use Goal Report Streamed Data Actors and Roles • SMO
- Near-RT RIC platform
- xApp
Assumptions Pre-conditions PerfMetricJob exists and includes a valid stream target value. A streaming connection has been established between the Near-RT RIC and the SMO. Begins when PM Streaming configuration created. Step 1 (M) (API) Near-RT RIC platform directs xApp to start streaming data. Step 2 (M) (API) xApp streams data to Near-RT RIC platform. Step 3 (M) Near-RT RIC platform streams PM data to subscriber. Ends when SMO receives streamed data.

### 9.4.14 Measurement Job Control
Both the selection of the data at the xApp and the formatting of the data at the Near-RT RIC platform are in scope for this procedure. The CreateMeasurementJobControl request received over O1 also determines whether the PM data would be file based or streamed. <<Uses>> Use case stage Evolution/Specification Related use Goal To configure the collection of PM measurements Actors and Roles • SMO
- Near-RT RIC platform
- xApp
Assumptions Pre-conditions Target xApp in service. Begins when “Create erf etricJob” recei ed on O1 interface. Step 1 (M) Configure xApp to collect and forward PM data. Step 2 (M) PM collection response. Ends when Successful creation of PM PerformanceMetric Job confirmed on O1.

## 9.5 SDL API Procedures

### 9.5.1 SDL Client Registration procedure
The SDL Client Registration procedure in the Near-RT RIC enables an xApp to register with the Near-RT RIC platform for permission to access the database. Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Goal xApp requests Near-RT RIC platform as a client for the permission to access database.
- xApp: Originator of SDL Client Registration request;
Actors and Roles
- Near-RT RIC platform: Response to the request of xApp.
Pre-conditions • SDL API services have been registered and authorized by Near-RT RIC platform. xApp determines to register with Near-RT RIC platform to access the database in the Near-RT- Begins when RIC platform. xApp sends SDL Client Registration request to Near-RT RIC platform to obtain permission to Step 1 (M) access the database. Step 2 (M) Near-RT RIC platform arranges the permission for the xApp to access the database. Step 3 (M) Near-RT RIC platform sends the response of successful or failed registration to the xApp.

### 9.5.2 SDL Client Deregistration procedure
The SDL Client Deregistration procedure in the Near-RT RIC enables an xApp to request the Near-RT RIC platform to release the registration as SDL client. Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Goal xApp requests the Near-RT RIC platform to release the registration as SDL client
- xApp: Originator of SDL Client Deregistration request;
Actors and Roles
- Near-RT RIC platform: Response to the request of xApp.
- SDL API services have been registered with Near-RT RIC platform;
Pre-conditions
- xApp has successfully registered as a client to the SDL before.
Begins when xApp determines to release the registration with Near-RT RIC platform. xApp sends Client Deregistration request to Near-RT RIC platform to release the connection Step 1 (M) with database. Step 2 (M) Near-RT RIC platform deregisters the xApp as a SDL client. Step 3 (M) Near-RT RIC platform sends the response of successful or failed deregistration to the xApp.

### 9.5.3 Fetch Data procedure
The Fetch Data procedure in the Near-RT RIC enables an xApp to request data for which it is authorized as the SDL client for local processing. Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Goal xApp fetches data as the SDL client.
- xApp: Originator of Fetch Data request;
Actors and Roles
- Near-RT RIC platform: Response to the request of xApp.
- SDL API services have been registered with Near-RT RIC platform;
Pre-conditions • xApp has successfully registered as a client to the SDL before;
- xApp has been authorized to read the data in the database.
Begins when xApp determines to fetch relevant data as the SDL client from the Near-RT-RIC platform. Step 1 (M) xApp requests to Near-RT RIC platform to fetch data from database. Step 2 (M) Near-RT RIC platform fetches xApp required information from database. Step 3 (M) Near-RT RIC platform sends the requested data or the failure response to specific xApp.

### 9.5.4 Subscribe/Update-Notify procedure
The Subscribe/Update-Notify procedure in the Near-RT RIC allows the xApp to subscribe to SDL notifications for the summary of authorized data changes. The Near-RT RIC platform will notify the summary of information changes to the xApp, and the xApp may subsequently request updated data through the Fetch Data procedure. The notifications contain only summary of changes to the information after the subscription. Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification xApp subscribes with the Near-RT RIC platform for data changes and receives related Goal notifications.
- xApp: Originator of Subscribe request;
Actors and Roles • Near-RT RIC platform: Response to the request of xApp, and notify the subscribed information to xApp.
- SDL API services have been registered by Near-RT RIC platform;
Pre-conditions
- xApp has successfully registered as a client to the SDL before.
xApp determines to subscribe for notifications related to summary of information changes in the Begins when Near-RT-RIC platform database. xApp sends the request to Near-RT RIC platform to subscribe for notifications related to Step 1 (M) summary of SDL information changes. Step 2 (M) Near-RT RIC platform responds to the xApp subscription. Near-RT RIC platform sends the notification for the subscribed summary of information changes Step 3 (M) to the xApp. The xApp may further send a request to Near-RT RIC platform to fetch the updated information.

### 9.5.5 Store Data procedure
The Store Data procedure in the Near-RT RIC ensures that the xApp may request Near-RT RIC platform to insert data to the database. Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Goal xApp requests to store data in the database.
- xApp: Originator of Store Data request;
Actors and Roles
- Near-RT RIC platform: Response to the request of xApp.
- SDL API services have been registered by Near-RT RIC platform;
Pre-conditions • xApp has successfully registered as a client to the SDL before;
- xApp has been authorized to write the data in the database.
Begins when xApp determines to store relevant data to the database in the Near-RT-RIC platform. xApp sends a request to Near-RT RIC platform to store related information and try to insert data Step 1 (M) to database. Step 2 (M) Near-RT RIC platform stores xApp requested information in database. Step 3 (M) Near-RT RIC platform responds to the xApp, including success and failure operation.

### 9.5.6 Modify Data procedure
The Modify Data procedure in the Near-RT RIC allows the xApp to request Near-RT RIC platform to update or delete data from database. Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Goal xApp intends to modify or delete data stored by the SDL.
- xApp: Originator of Modify Data request;
Actors and Roles
- Near-RT RIC platform: Response to the request of xApp.
- SDL API services have been registered by Near-RT RIC platform;
Pre-conditions • xApp has successfully registered as a client to the SDL before;
- xApp has been authorized to write the data in the database.
Begins when xApp determines to modify relevant data stored by the database in the Near-RT-RIC platform. xApp sends a request to Near-RT RIC platform to modify related information, including update Step 1 (M) and delete data in database. Step 2 (M) Near-RT RIC platform modifies or deletes xApp requested information in database. Step 3 (M) Near-RT RIC platform responds to the xApp, including success and failure operation.

### 9.5.7 Subscribe/Push procedure
The Subscribe/Push procedure in the Near-RT RIC allows the xApp to subscribe to the Near-RT RIC platform for authorized data in the database. The pushes may be used to contain a given set of information, or only the changed part of the information after the subscription. Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification xApp subscribes with the Near-RT RIC platform for data changes and receives related push Goal messages.
- xApp: Originates the Subscribe request;
Actors and Roles • Near-RT RIC platform: Responds to the xApp request and pushes the subscribed data and meta-data to the xApp.
- SDL API services have been registered by Near-RT RIC platform;
Pre-conditions
- xApp has successfully registered as a client to the SDL.
xApp subscribes for push messages related to information in the database in the Near-RT RIC Begins when platform. xApp sends the request to Near-RT RIC platform to subscribe for push messages related to Step 1 (M) information. Step 2 (M) Near-RT RIC platform responds to the xApp subscription. Near-RT RIC platform sends the push message with data and meta-data for the subscribed Step 3 (M) information to the xApp. 9.5.7A xApp Shared Data Fetch procedure The xApp Shared Data Fetch procedure enables the data consumer (Near-RT RIC platform or an xApp) to fetch specific shared data from the data producer xApp. Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Data consumer (Near-RT RIC platform or xApp) fetches shared data from the data producer Goal xApp.
- Data producer xApp;
Actors and Roles • Data consumer: Originator of xApp Shared Data Fetch request, which may be the Near-RT RIC platform or an xApp.
- Data producer xApp has successfully registered its xApp Data Sharing service with
Pre-conditions Near-RT RIC platform;
- Data consumer has discovered the xApp Data Sharing service.
Begins when The data consumer determines to fetch relevant data from the data producer xApp. Step 1 (M) The data consumer sends a request to the data producer xApp for specific shared data. Step 2 (M) The data producer xApp generates the requested data. Step 3 (M) The data producer xApp responds with the requested data. 9.5.7B Procedures related to xApp Shared Data Subscription and Notification 9.5.7B.1 Procedures for xApp Shared Data Subscribe/Push The xApp Shared Data Subscribe/Push procedures allow the data consumer (Near-RT RIC platform or an xApp) to subscribe to and receive specific shared data from the data producer xApp. Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Data consumer (Near-RT RIC platform or xApp) subscribes to and receives shared data from Goal the data producer xApp.
- Data producer xApp;
Actors and Roles • Data consumer: Originator of the xApp Shared Data Subscription request, which may be the Near-RT RIC platform or an xApp.
- Data producer xApp has successfully registered its xApp Data Sharing service with
Pre-conditions Near-RT RIC platform;
- Data consumer has discovered the xApp Data Sharing service.
The data consumer determines to subscribe to specific shared data from the data producer Begins when xApp. The data consumer sends a subscription request to the data producer xApp for shared data. Step 1 (M) The request contains the description for the requested data, and the criteria to trigger the data push. The data producer xApp checks whether the data consumer is authorized to access the Step 2 (M) subscribed data. Step 3 (M) The data producer xApp accepts the request and stores the subscription record. Step 4 (M) The data producer xApp responds to the data consumer with the subscription ID. [LOOP] Step 5 is executed when the criteria to trigger the data push are met. Step 5 (M) The data producer xApp pushes the subscribed data to the data consumer. 9.5.7B.2 xApp Shared Data Subscription Delete procedure The xApp Shared Data Subscription Delete procedure allows the data consumer (Near-RT RIC platform or an xApp) to unsubscribe to specific shared data from the data producer xApp. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Data consumer (Near-RT RIC platform or xApp) unsubscribes to shared Goal data from the data producer xApp.
- Data producer xApp;
- Data consumer: Originator of the xApp Shared Data Subscription
Actors and Roles Delete request, which may be the Near-RT RIC platform or an xApp. The data consumer has subscribed to shared data from the data producer Pre-conditions xApp. The data consumer determines to unsubscribe to specific shared data from Begins when the data producer xApp. The data consumer sends a subscription delete request to the data Step 1 (M) producer xApp. The request contains the subscription ID. The data producer xApp checks the subscription record associated with the Step 2 (M) subscription ID and checks whether the data consumer is authorized to unsubscribe. The data producer xApp deletes the subscription record for the data Step 3 (M) consumer. Step 4 (M) The data producer xApp sends a subscription delete response.

### 9.5.8 Use cases of SDL APIs

#### 9.5.8.1 Subscribe/Update-Notify for E2NodeInfo and E2NodeList
The SDL Subscribe/Update-Notify procedure (clause 9.5.4) along with the SDL fetch procedure (clause 9.5.3) may be used for getting notifications and fetching E2 Node related information such as E2NodeList (clause 9.5.9.2) and E2NodeInfo (clause 9.5.9.3) changes (obtained as the result of an E2AP Global Procedure such as: E2 Setup, Reset, E2 Removal, RIC Service Update or E2 Node Configuration Update). As noted in clause 9.5.4, notifications will contain only the summary of changes to E2NodeInfo after the subscription. To get the complete state of E2NodeInfo, the xApp may do a fetch. Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Goal Inform the xApp about changes to E2 Node information
- E2 Nodes: O-CU, O-DUs supporting the E2 interface.
- xApps: Requires information about changes to E2 Node information.
Actors and Roles • Near-RT RIC platform: − exposing an SDL API to the xApps; − Termination of E2 connections.
- SDL API services have been registered and authorized by Near-RT RIC platform;
Pre-conditions • xApp has successfully registered as a client to the SDL before;
- xApp has been authorized to read the data in the database.
Begins when xApp decides it is interested in E2NodeInfo updates. xApp sends request to Near-RT RIC platform to subscribe for notifications related to E2NodeInfo Step 1 (M) changes. Step 2 (M) Near-RT RIC platform responds to xApp subscription. E2 Node or Near-RT RIC initiates an E2AP Global procedure (i.e., E2 Setup, Reset, E2 Step 3 (M) Removal, RIC Service Update or E2 Node Configuration Update). [OPT] Steps 4-10 are executed if the E2AP Global Procedure succeeds: Step 4 (M) Near-RT RIC platform updates the Database. Step 5 (M) Near-RT RIC platform triggers SDL procedure. Step 6 (M) Near-RT RIC platform retrieves list of xApps that would be interested in this update . [LOOP] Steps 7-10 are looped for each relevant xApp. Near-RT RIC platform sends a notification of subscribed E2NodeList update or Step 7 (M) E2NodeInfo update to the xApp which includes the E2NodeID. xApp makes decision on whether to fetch the updated information from the Near-RT RIC Step 8 (M) platform. [OPT] Steps 9-10 are executed if the xApp decides that it needs the update: xApp sends a fetch request to the Near-RT RIC platform which includes the E2NodeID. Step 9 (M) Step 10 (M) Near-RT RIC platform responds with a fetch response (E2NodeList or E2NodeInfo).

#### 9.5.8.2 Subscribe/Push for E2NodeInfo and E2NodeList
The SDL Subscribe/Push procedure (clause 9.5.7) may be used for getting E2 Node related information pushes such as E2NodeList (clause 9.5.9.2) and E2NodeInfo (clause 9.5.9.3) (obtained as the result of an E2 Global procedure such as E2 Setup, Reset, E2 Removal, RIC Service Update or E2 Node Configuration Update). As noted in clause 9.5.7, the pushes may contain only the changed to E2 Node related information after the subscription, or a complete set of E2 Node related information. Use Case Stage Evolution/Specification Goal Inform the xApp about changes to E2 Node information.
- E2 Nodes: O-CU, O-DUs supporting the E2 interface;
- xApps: Requires information about changes to E2 Node information;
Actors and Roles • Near-RT RIC platform: − exposing an SDL API to the xApps; − Termination of E2 node connections.
- SDL API services have been registered and authorized by Near-RT RIC platform;
Pre-conditions • xApp has successfully registered as a client to the SDL before;
- xApp has been authorized to read the data in the database.
Begins when xApp decides it is interested in E2NodeInfo updates. xApp sends request to Near-RT RIC platform to subscribe for pushes related to E2NodeList Step 1 (M) and/or E2NodeInfo. Step 2 (M) Near-RT RIC platform responds to xApp subscription. E2 Node or Near-RT RIC initiates an E2AP Global Procedure (i.e., E2 Setup, Reset, E2 Step 3 (M) Removal, RIC Service Update or E2 Node Configuration Update). [OPT] Steps 4-7 are executed if the E2AP Global procedure succeeds: Step 4 (M) Near-RT RIC platform updates the Database. Step 5 (M) Near-RT RIC platform triggers SDL procedure. Step 6 (M) Near-RT RIC platform retrieves list of xApps that would be interested in this update. For each relevant xApp, Near-RT RIC platform sends a push of E2NodeList or E2NodeInfo to Step 7 (M) the xApp which includes the E2NodeID. 9.5.8.3 xApp data sharing for RAN analytics information exposure An xApp may act as a producer of some types of RAI. Such RAI may be exposed to the Near-RT RIC platform, and further exposed via Y1 interface. In this use case, the Near-RT RIC platform uses the xApp Shared Data Subscribe/Push procedures or the xApp Shared Data Fetch procedure to collect RAI from the RAI producer xApp. A) using xApp Shared Data Subscribe/Push procedures Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Goal Near-RT RIC platform exposes via Y1 interface the RAI produced by the xApp.
- Y1 consumer
- xApp: Producer of RAI.
Actors and Roles • Near-RT RIC platform, with the following functionalities: − Y1 termination; − API enablement.
- RAI producer xApp has registered the API information of its xApp Data Sharing API
Pre-conditions information using the Enablement APIs;
- Y1 consumer has been provided with the supported RAI types.
Begins when Y1 consumer determines to subscribe to specific RAI from the Near-RT RIC. Step 1 (M) Y1 consumer requests RAI with a Y1 RAI subscription request to Near-RT RIC platform. Step 2 (M) Near-RT RIC platform decides how to handle the request. [ALT] Steps 3-10 are executed if Near-RT RIC platform decides to initiate xApp Shared Data Subscribe/Push procedures with the RAI producer xApp. Step 3 (O) Near-RT RIC platform queries the API information registered by the RAI producer xApp. Near-RT RIC platform forwards the RAI request to the RAI producer xApp with an xApp Step 4 (M) Shared Data subscription request. RAI producer xApp configures collection of necessary data (e.g., by creating E2 Step 5 (M) subscriptions and/or A1-EI subscription). RAI producer xApp responds to Near-RT RIC platform with an xApp Shared Data Step 6 (M) subscription response. Near-RT RIC platform responds to Y1 consumer with a Y1 RAI subscription response, which Step 7 (M) contains the result in Step 5. [LOOP] Steps 8-10 are executed when RAI report is needed. Step 8 (M) RAI producer xApp collects necessary data and generates RAI. RAI producer xApp sends RAI to the Near-RT RIC platform with an xApp Shared Data Step 9 (M) Push. Step 10 (M) Near-RT RIC platform forwards the RAI to Y1 consumer. [ELSE] Steps 11-13 are executed if Near-RT RIC platform decides to handle the request by other means (e.g., reusing an existing xApp Shared Data subscription, or using xApp Shared Data Fetch). Near-RT RIC platform sends the response to Y1 consumer with a Y1 RAI subscription Step 11 (M) response. [LOOP] Steps 12-13 are executed when RAI report is needed. Step 12 (M) Near-RT RIC platform obtains RAI. Step 13 (M) Near-RT RIC platform forwards the RAI to Y1 consumer. B) using xApp Shared Data Fetch procedure Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Goal Near-RT RIC platform exposes via Y1 interface the RAI produced by the xApp.
- Y1 consumer
- xApp: Producer of RAI.
Actors and Roles • Near-RT RIC platform, with the following functionalities: − Y1 termination; − API enablement.
- RAI producer xApp has registered the API information of its xApp Data Sharing API
Pre-conditions information using the Enablement APIs;
- Y1 consumer has been provided with the supported RAI types.
Begins when Y1 consumer determines to query specific RAI from the Near-RT RIC. Step 1 (M) Y1 consumer requests RAI with a Y1 RAI query request to Near-RT RIC platform. Step 2 (M) Near-RT RIC platform decides how to handle the request. [ALT] Steps 3-7 are executed if Near-RT RIC platform decides to initiate xApp Shared Data Fetch procedure with the RAI producer xApp. Step 3 (O) Near-RT RIC platform queries the API information registered by the RAI producer xApp. Near-RT RIC platform forwards the RAI request to the RAI producer xApp with an xApp Step 4 (M) Shared Data Fetch request. Step 5 (M) RAI producer xApp collects necessary data and generates RAI. RAI producer xApp sends the RAI to Near-RT RIC platform with an xApp Shared Data Fetch Step 6 (M) response. Step 7 (M) Near-RT RIC platform forwards the RAI to Y1 consumer with a Y1 RAI query response. [ELSE] Steps 8-9 are executed if Near-RT RIC platform decides to handle the request by other means (e.g., using/reusing an xApp Shared Data subscription). Step 8 (M) Near-RT RIC platform obtains RAI. Step 9 (M) Near-RT RIC platform forwards the RAI to Y1 consumer with a Y1 RAI query response.

### 9.5.9 SDL API data structures

#### 9.5.9.1 Overview
The following data structures are defined:
- E2NodeList: List of known E2 Node ID and the associated E2 Node State
- E2NodeInfo: E2 Node component configuration list and RAN function list
E2NodeList and E2NodeInfo are used to inform xApps of change to E2 Node state and information as the result of E2AP Global Procedures. The relationship between these data structures and E2AP Global Procedures is described in table 9.5.9.1-1.
> NOTE 1: E2AP Error Indication procedure does not result in a change to SDL API data as most error cases are assumed to
be handled internally within the Near-RT RIC platform. An appropriate E2 Related API (Failure, Cause) message may be used to inform xApp if required.
> NOTE 2: E2AP Reset procedure handling is assumed to be assisted by an appropriate platform mechanism with the Near-
RT RIC first using the appropriate SDL API mechanism (see clause 9.5.8) to inform xApp that a RESET has occurred (i.e., E2 Node State = "Reset") and then a second SDL API mechanism is used to inform xApp that the E2 Node is again available (i.e. E2 Note State = "Connected"). It is assumed that the Near-RT RIC platform will delete all associated subscription records during the period between these two SDL API mechanisms and that xApp will use the information E2 Node is again available (i.e., E2 Note State = "Connected") to trigger any required E2 Subscription (Request) messages to re-establish E2 subscriptions.
> NOTE 3: E2AP E2 Removal procedure handling and E2 link failure handling are assumed to be assisted by an appropriate
platform mechanism with the Near-RT RIC using the appropriate SDL API mechanism (see clause 9.5.8) to inform xApp that the E2 Node is not available (i.e., E2 Node State = "Disconnect"). Global E2NodeList change E2NodeInfo change procedure E2 Setup Add E2NodeList record (E2 Add E2NodeInfo record (E2 Node ID, RAN Node ID, E2 Node State = Function list, E2 Node component configuration "Connected") list) Reset Change E2NodeList record (E2 - Node State = "Reset"). After using an appropriate Near- RT RIC mechanism, Change E2NodeList record (E2 Node State to "Connected") RIC Service - Add, Modify and/or Remove E2NodeInfo Update record (E2 Node ID, RAN Function List) E2 Node - Add, Modify and/or Remove E2NodeInfo Configuration record (E2 Node ID, E2 Node Component Update configuration list) E2 Removal Change E2NodeList record (E2 Delete E2NodeInfo record (E2 Node ID) Node State = "Disconnected"). After Delete E2NodeInfo record, Delete E2NodeList record (E2 Node ID) E2 link failure Change E2NodeList record (E2 Delete E2NodeInfo record (E2 Node ID) Node State = "Disconnected"). After Delete E2NodeInfo record, Delete E2NodeList record (E2 Node ID) E2 Node State xApp actions Connected Discover E2 Node ID in E2NodeList and obtain E2NodeInfo (after E2 Setup). Initiate E2 Related APIs (after E2 Setup and Reset). Reset Delete internal records of ongoing E2 Related API procedures. Monitor for changes in E2 Node State. Disconnected Delete internal records of ongoing E2 Related API procedures. Delete internal records of E2 Node ID.

#### 9.5.9.2 E2NodeList
The E2NodeList data structure contains a list of known E2 Nodes and the associated E2 Node State. Each record contains:
- E2 Node ID
- E2 Node State ("Connected", "Reset", "Disconnected")
E2NodeList records may be deleted when the corresponding E2NodeInfo record has been deleted. It is recommended to maintain this record for sufficient time for all xApps to complete clean-up mechanisms.

#### 9.5.9.3 E2NodeInfo
The E2NodeInfo data structure contains information on a given E2 Node. Each record contains:
- E2 Node ID
- List of declared E2 Node component configuration information
- List of declared RAN Functions
E2NodeInfo records shall be deleted after corresponding E2NodeState is set to "Disconnected" and sufficient time has been allowed for all xApps to complete clean-up mechanisms.

## 9.6 API Enablement Procedures

### 9.6.1 API Discovery procedure
This procedure enables the xApp(s) to discover the available Near-RT RIC APIs. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use To allow the xApp to discover which APIs are available and how to access Goal them.
- xApp: Requester of the available Near-RT RIC APIs.
- Near-RT RIC platform, with the following functionalities:
Actors and Roles − API Enablement; − Database For initiating the discovery, the xApp has registered to Near-RT RIC Assumptions platform and is aware of the API information of the Enablement APIs.
- The xApp is deployed to Near-RT RIC platform.
- The API information of Enablement APIs has been provided to the
xApp (as pre-configuration by SMO or by other means). Pre conditions
- One or more Near-RT RIC platform services are configured to
provide their API information with the API Enablement functionality. Begins when xApps wants to discover the available Near-RT RIC APIs. xApp sends a API discovery request to the Near-RT RIC platform. It Step 1 (M) includes the xApp identity and includes query information. Query information may include criteria for discovering matching APIs. Step 2 (M) Near-RT RIC platform verifies the identity of the xApp. Near-RT RIC platform searches the stored Near-RT RIC API(s) information, Step 3 (M) as per the query information in the discovery request. Near-RT RIC platform applies the discovery policy and performs filtering of Step 4 (M) the retrieved Near-RT RIC APIs information. The Near-RT RIC platform sends a API discovery response to the xApp Step 5 (M) with the API information about the APIs for which the xApp has the required authorization. xApp Near RT RIC platform Near RT RIC platform ser ice a ailable tore A I information 1. A I disco ery request . Near RT RIC platform erifies the identity of the xApp 3. earch stored A I information 4. Apply disco ery policy and information filtering 5. A I disco ery response xApp Near RT RIC platform

### 9.6.2 Procedures related to API Event Subscription and Notification
In this clause, the procedures for subscription / subscription deletion and API event notification are provided. These procedures allow the xApps to receive information on API related events. Such events correspond to Near-RT RIC API related events like the following: Events Events Description Availability of Near-RT RIC APIs Availability events of Near-RT RIC APIs (e.g., active, inactive) Near-RT RIC API updated Events related to change in Near-RT RIC API information

#### 9.6.2.1 Procedure for API Event Subscription
The purpose of this procedure is to enable xApps to subscribe to monitor events related to the provided Near-RT RIC APIs. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use To allow the xApp to subscribe to receive Near-RT RIC API related event Goal notifications.
- xApp: Requester to subscribe to notifications of events related to
the Near-RT RIC APIs; Actors and Roles • Near-RT RIC platform, with the following functionalities: − API enablement. − Database
- For initiating the subscription, the xApp has registered to RIC
Assumptions platform and is aware of the API information of Enablement APIs. Also, xApp has discovered the provided Near-RT RIC APIs.
- The xApp is registered to Near-RT RIC platform;
- The API information of Enablement APIs has been provided to the
Pre-conditions xApp (as pre-configuration by SMO);
- The xApp has discovered the registered Near-RT RIC APIs (see
9.6.1). xApp has discovered the available Near-RT RIC APIs and wants to Begins when subscribe for event notifications. xApp sends an API event subscription request to the Near-RT RIC platform in order to receive notification of events. This request includes the subscribing xApp identifier as well as the event criteria: Step 1 (M)
- Event criteria may include event type information, e.g., API failure
event, new API available event, API unavailable event, API version change event, API location change event, etc. Step 2 (M) The Near-RT RIC platform checks whether the xApp is authorized to monitor the requested event(s). Step 3 (M) The Near-RT RIC platform stores the approved subscription information. The Near-RT RIC platform sends an API event subscription response to the Step 4 (M) xApp. This response indicates the success or failure of the event subscription operation. xApp Near RT RIC platform 1. A I e ent subscription request . Check authori ation for A I e ent subscription 3. tore e ent subscription 4. A I e ent subscription response (success or failure) xApp Near RT RIC platform

#### 9.6.2.2 Procedure for API Event Subscription Delete
The purpose of this procedure is to enable xApps to un-subscribe from events monitoring related to the provided Near-RT RIC APIs. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use To allow the xApp to un-subscribe from Near-RT RIC API related event Goal notifications.
- xApp: Requester to un-subscribe from monitoring events related to
the Near-RT RIC APIs; Actors and Roles • Near-RT RIC platform, with the following functionalities: − API Enablement. − Database For initiating the subscription delete, the xApp has registered to Near-RT Assumptions RIC platform and is aware of the API information of the Enablement APIs. Also, xApp has subscribed to events. Pre-conditions The xApp has subscribed to Near-RT RIC API related events (see 9.6.2.1). Begins when xApp wants to un-subscribe for Near-RT RIC API related events. xApp sends an API event subscription delete request to the Near-RT RIC Step 1 (M) platform with the information of the subscribed event and includes the xApp identifier and the event subscription identifier. The Near-RT RIC platform, upon receiving the API event subscription Step 2 (M) delete request from the xApp, checks for the API event subscription corresponding to the xApp and further checks if the subscribing entity is authorized to un-subscribe. Step 3 (M) Near-RT RIC platform deletes the subscription information for the xApp. The API Enablement sends an API event subscription delete response to Step 4 (M) the xApp. This response indicates the success or failure of the event subscription delete operation. xApp Near RT RIC platform 1. A I e ent subscription delete request . Check authori ation for A I e ent subscription 3. elete the record of the A I e ent subscription 4. A I e ent subscription delete response (success or failure) xApp Near RT RIC platform

#### 9.6.2.3 Procedure for API Event Notification
This procedure shows sending the event notification to the subscribed xApp, based on a trigger event captured at the Near-RT RIC platform. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use To notify the xApp on events related to the Near-RT RIC APIs, based on Goal subscription.
- xApp: Receiving event notifications based on subscription;
- Service producer xApp: Initiating API Registration, API
Registration update or API Deregistration procedure Actors and Roles
- Near-RT RIC platform, with the following functionalities:
− API Enablement − Database For receiving a notification, the xApp has registered to Near-RT RIC Assumptions platform and has subscribed to events. Pre-conditions The xApp has subscribed to Near-RT RIC API related events (see 9.6.2.1). A trigger event criterion is met at the Near-RT RIC platform (i.e., API information update from a Near-RT RIC platform service and/or Service Begins when producer xApp). Such criterion has been configured during subscription of the xApp. Step 1 (M) Near-RT RIC platform checks corresponding event subscriptions Near-RT RIC platform generates an event related to APIs, which is to be Step 2 (M) consumed by the subscribed xApp(s) The Near-RT RIC platform sends event notifications to all the subscribing Step 3 (M) xApp(s) that have subscribed for the event matching the criteria. The xApp may send an event notification acknowledgement to Near-RT Step 4 (O) RIC platform. It depends on the capabilities of the transport used for notifications whether or not such acknowledgement can be sent.

### 9.6.3 Procedures related to API Registration

#### 9.6.3.1 API Registration procedure
This procedure enables the xApp to register as a service producer. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use To allow the xApp to register as a Near-RT RIC API service producer and Goal provide information on how to access the service.
- Service Producer xApp: Producer of a Near-RT RIC API.
- xApp: Receiving event notifications based on subscription;
Actors and Roles • Near-RT RIC platform, with the following functionalities: − API Enablement; − Database For initiating the API Registration procedure, the xApp has registered as an Assumptions xApp to Near-RT RIC platform and is aware of the API information of the Enablement APIs.
- The xApp is deployed to Near-RT RIC platform.
- The API information of Enablement APIs has been provided to the
Pre conditions xApp (as pre-configuration by SMO or by other means).
- The xApp is configured and authorized to consume API
Registration service Begins when xApps wants to register as a producer of a service in the Near RT RIC. xApp sends an API Registration request to the Near-RT RIC platform. It Step 1 (M) includes the xApp identity and supported API information. Step 2 (M) Near-RT RIC platform verifies the identity of the xApp. Near-RT RIC platform verifies that the xApp is authorized to act as a Step 3 (M) Service Producer. Step 4 (M) Near-RT RIC platform adds stored API information. The Near-RT RIC platform sends API Registration response to the xApp. Step 5 (M) This response indicates the success or failure of the API Registration operation. Near-RT RIC platform may initiate API Event notification procedure towards Ends with one or more other xApps that had previously established a corresponding API Event Subscription. xApp er ice roducer xApp Near RT RIC platform Near RT RIC platform ser ice a ailable 1. A I Registration request . Near RT RIC platform erifies the identity of the xApp 3. Near RT RIC platform erifies that xApp may act as er ice roducer 4. tore A I information 5. A I Registration response ( uccess or ailure)

# A I E ent Notification
xApp er ice roducer xApp Near RT RIC platform

#### 9.6.3.2 API Registration Update procedure
This procedure enables a previously registered xApp service producer to update API information. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use To allow the xApp to update provided service and/or information on how to Goal access the services it produces.
- Service Producer xApp: Producer of a Near-RT RIC API.
- xApp: Receiving event notifications based on subscription;
Actors and Roles • Near-RT RIC platform, with the following functionalities: − API Enablement; − Database For initiating the API Registration Update procedure, the xApp has Assumptions registered to Near-RT RIC platform and is aware of the API information of the Enablement APIs.
- The xApp is deployed to Near-RT RIC platform.
- The API information of Enablement APIs has been provided to the
Pre conditions xApp (as pre-configuration by SMO or by other means).
- The xApp has previously completed API Registration procedure
Begins when xApps wants to update information concerning a Near-RT RIC API. xApp sends an API Registration update request to the Near-RT RIC Step 1 (M) platform. It includes the xApp identity and updated information on supported API. Step 2 (M) Near-RT RIC platform verifies the identity of the xApp. Step 3 (M) Near-RT RIC platform searches the stored Near-RT RIC API(s) information. Step 4 (M) Near-RT RIC platform updates stored API information The Near-RT RIC platform sends an API Registration Update response to Step 5 (M) the xApp. This response indicates the success or failure of the API Registration Update operation. Near-RT RIC platform may initiate API Event notification procedure towards Ends with one or more other xApps that had previously established a corresponding API Event Subscription.

#### 9.6.3.3 API Deregistration procedure
This procedure enables a previously registered xApp service producer to deregister as a service producer. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal To allow the xApp to deregister as a Near-RT RIC API service producer.
- Service Producer xApp: Producer of a Near-RT RIC API.
- xApp: Receiving event notifications based on subscription
Actors and Roles • Near-RT RIC platform, with the following functionalities: − API Enablement; − Database For initiating the API Registration Update procedure, the xApp has Assumptions registered to Near-RT RIC platform and is aware of the API information of the Enablement APIs.
- The xApp is deployed to Near-RT RIC platform.
- The API information of Enablement APIs has been provided to the
Pre conditions xApp (as pre-configuration by SMO or by other means).
- The xApp has previously completed API Registration procedure
Begins when xApps wants to deregister as a service producer of a Near-RT RIC API. xApp sends an API Deregistration request to the Near-RT RIC platform. It Step 1 (M) includes the xApp identity and supported API information. Step 2 (M) Near-RT RIC platform verifies the identity of the xApp. Step 3 (M) Near-RT RIC platform searches the stored Near-RT RIC API(s) information. Step 4 (M) Near-RT RIC platform removes stored API information. The Near-RT RIC platform sends an API Deregistration response to the Step 5 (M) xApp. This response indicates the success or failure of the API Deregistration operation. Near-RT RIC platform may initiate API Event notification procedure towards Ends with one or more other xApps that had previously established a corresponding API Event Subscription.

## 9.7 AI/ML API Procedures

### 9.7.1 Data Pipelining service procedures

#### 9.7.1.1 Data Pipelining Job Setup procedure
The Data Pipelining Job Setup procedure enables an xApp to setup a new data pipelining job in the Near-RT RIC platform. Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Goal xApp requests to setup a data pipelining job in the Near-RT RIC platform.
- xApp: Originator of data pipelining job setup request;
Actors and Roles
- Near-RT RIC platform: Response to the request of xApp.
Pre-conditions • AI/ML workflow services have been registered by Near-RT RIC platform. Begins when xApp determines to setup a Data Pipelining Job in the Near-RT RIC platform. Step 1 (M) xApp sends a request to Near-RT RIC platform to setup a data pipelining job. Near-RT RIC platform checks whether the originating xApp is allowed to setup the data Step 2 (M) pipelining job. [ALT] Step 3 is executed if the originating xApp is not allowed to setup the data pipelining job. Step 3 (M) A failure is responded to the originating xApp, possibly including appropriate reason. [ELSE] Steps 4-5 are executed if the originating xApp is allowed to setup the data pipelining job. Step 4 (M) Near-RT RIC platform create corresponding data pipelining job. Step 5 (M) Near-RT RIC platform responds success to the originating xApp.

#### 9.7.1.2 Data Pipelining Job Update procedure
The Data Pipelining Job Update procedure enables an xApp to update a running data pipelining job in the Near-RT RIC platform. Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Goal xApp requests to update a data pipelining job in the Near-RT RIC platform.
- xApp: Originator of data pipelining job update request;
Actors and Roles
- Near-RT RIC platform: Response to the request of xApp.
- AI/ML workflow services have been registered by Near-RT RIC platform;
Pre-conditions
- At least one Data Pipelining Job setup by xApp is running in the Near-RT RIC platform.
Begins when xApp determines to update a Data Pipelining Job in the Near-RT-RIC platform. Step 1 (M) xApp sends a request to Near-RT RIC platform to update a data pipelining job. Near-RT RIC platform checks whether the originating xApp is allowed to update the requested Step 2 (M) data pipelining job. [ALT] Step 3 is executed if the originating xApp is not allowed to update the requested data pipelining job. Step 3 (M) A failure is responded to the originating xApp, possibly including appropriate reason. [ELSE] Steps 4-5 are executed if the originating xApp is allowed to update the requested data pipelining job. Step 4 (M) Near-RT RIC platform updates corresponding data pipelining job. Step 5 (M) Near-RT RIC platform responds success to the originating xApp.

#### 9.7.1.3 Data Pipelining Job Delete procedure
The Data Pipelining Job Delete procedure enables an xApp to delete a running data pipelining job in the Near-RT RIC Platform. Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Goal xApp requests to delete a data pipelining job in the Near-RT RIC platform.
- xApp: Originator of data pipelining job delete request;
Actors and Roles
- Near-RT RIC platform: Response to the request of xApp.
- AI/ML workflow services have been registered by Near-RT RIC platform;
Pre-conditions
- At lease one data pipelining job setup by xApp is running in the Near-RT RIC platform.
Begins when xApp determines to delete a data pipelining job in the Near-RT-RIC platform. Step 1 (M) xApp sends a request to Near-RT RIC platform to delete a data pipelining job. Near-RT RIC platform checks whether the originating xApp is allowed to delete the requested Step 2 (M) data pipelining job [ALT] Step 3 is executed if the originating xApp is not allowed to delete the requested data pipelining job. Step 3 (M) A failure is responded to the originating xApp, possibly including appropriate reason. [ELSE] Steps 4-5 are executed if the originating xApp is allowed to delete the requested data pipelining job. Step 4 (M) Near-RT RIC platform deletes corresponding data pipelining job. Step 5 (M) Near-RT RIC platform responds success to the originating xApp.

#### 9.7.1.4 Data Pipelining Job Query procedure
The Data Pipelining Job Query procedure enables an xApp to query the status of a running data pipelining job in the Near-RT RIC platform. Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Goal xApp requests to query the status of a data pipelining job in the Near-RT RIC platform.
- xApp: Originator of data pipelining job query request;
Actors and Roles
- Near-RT RIC platform: Response to the request of xApp.
- AI/ML workflow services have been registered by Near-RT RIC platform;
Pre-conditions
- At least one data pipelining job setup by xApp is running in the Near-RT RIC platform.
Begins when xApp determines to query the status of a data pipelining job in the Near-RT-RIC platform. Step 1 (M) xApp sends a request to Near-RT RIC platform to query the status of a data pipelining job. Near-RT RIC platform checks whether the originating xApp is allowed to query the status of the Step 2 (M) requested data pipelining job. [ALT] Step 3 is executed if the originating xApp is not allowed to query the status of the requested data pipelining job. Step 3 (M) A failure is responded to the originating xApp, possibly including appropriate reason. [ELSE] Steps 4-5 are executed if the originating xApp is allowed to query the status of the requested data pipelining job. Step 4 (M) Near-RT RIC platform looks up the status of corresponding data pipelining job. Near-RT RIC platform responds success to the originating xApp, including the queried Step 5 (M) status.

#### 9.7.1.5 Data Pipelining Request and Result Delivery procedure
The Data Pipelining Request and Result Delivery procedure allows an xApp to request a data pipelining result from Near-RT RIC platform through providing data pipelining input data. Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Goal xApp requests to get a data pipelining result from the Near-RT RIC platform.
- xApp: Originator of data pipelining request;
Actors and Roles
- Near-RT RIC platform: Response to the request of xApp.
- AI/ML workflow services have been registered by Near-RT RIC platform;
Pre-conditions
- At least one data pipelining job setup by xApp is running in the Near-RT RIC platform.
xApp has new data pipelining input data or address to the new data pipelining input data and Begins when determine to use running data pipelining job to generates data pipelining results for xApp. Step 1 (M) xApp sends Near-RT-RIC platform Data Pipelining request. [ALT] Step 2-3 are executed if the data pipelining job is configured to provide output data or address of output data in the response. Step 2 (M) Near-RT-RIC platform generates data pipelining results. Step 3 (M) Near-RT-RIC platform responds to xApp, with data pipelining result. [ELSE] Steps 4-6 are executed if the data pipelining job is configured to provide output data or address of output data via the delivery procedure. Step 4 (M) xApp is responded by the Near-RT RIC platform. Step 5 (M) Near-RT-RIC platform generates data pipelining results. Step 6 (M) Near-RT-RIC platform delivers the data pipelining result to the xApp.

### 9.7.2 Training service procedures

#### 9.7.2.1 Training Job Setup procedure
The Training Job Setup procedure enables an xApp to setup a new training job in the Near-RT RIC platform. Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Goal xApp requests to setup a training job in the Near-RT RIC platform.
- xApp: Originator of training job setup request;
Actors and Roles
- Near-RT RIC platform: Response to the request of xApp.
Pre-conditions • AI/ML workflow services have been registered by Near-RT RIC platform; Begins when xApp determines to setup a training job in the Near-RT-RIC platform. Step 1 (M) xApp sends a request to Near-RT RIC platform to setup a training job. Step 2 (M) Near-RT RIC platform checks whether the originating xApp is allowed to setup the training job. [ALT] Step 3 is executed if the originating xApp is not allowed to setup the training job. Step 3 (M) A failure is responded to the originating xApp, possibly including appropriate reason. [ELSE] Steps 4-5 are executed if the originating xApp is allowed to setup the training job. Step 4 (M) Near-RT RIC platform create corresponding training job. Step 5 (M) Near-RT RIC platform responds success to the originating xApp.

#### 9.7.2.2 Training Job Delete procedure
The Training Job Delete procedure enables an xApp to delete a running training job in the Near-RT RIC platform. Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Goal xApp requests to delete a training job in the Near-RT RIC platform.
- xApp: Originator of training job delete request;
Actors and Roles
- Near-RT RIC platform: Response to the request of xApp.
- AI/ML workflow services have been registered by Near-RT RIC platform;
Pre-conditions
- At lease one training job setup by xApp is running in the Near-RT RIC platform.
Begins when xApp determines to delete a training job in the Near-RT-RIC platform. Step 1 (M) xApp sends a request to Near-RT RIC platform to delete a training job. Near-RT RIC platform checks whether the originating xApp is allowed to delete the requested Step 2 (M) training job [ALT] Step 3 is executed if the originating xApp is not allowed to delete the requested training job. Step 3 (M) A failure is responded to the originating xApp, possibly including appropriate reason. [ELSE] Steps 4-5 are executed if the originating xApp is allowed to delete the requested training job. Step 4 (M) Near-RT RIC platform deletes corresponding training job. Step 5 (M) Near-RT RIC platform responds success to the originating xApp.

#### 9.7.2.3 Training Job Query procedure
The Training Job Query procedure enables an xApp to query the status of a running training job in the Near-RT RIC platform. Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Goal xApp requests to query the status of a training job in the Near-RT RIC platform.
- xApp: Originator of training job query request;
Actors and Roles
- Near-RT RIC platform: Response to the request of xApp.
- AI/ML workflow services have been registered by Near-RT RIC platform;
Pre-conditions
- At least one training job setup by xApp is running in the Near-RT RIC platform.
Begins when xApp determines to query the status of a training job in the Near-RT-RIC platform. Step 1 (M) xApp sends a request to Near-RT RIC platform to query the status of a training job. Near-RT RIC platform checks whether the originating xApp is allowed to query the status of the Step 2 (M) requested training job. [ALT] Step 3 is executed if the originating xApp is not allowed to query the status of the requested training job. Step 3 (M) A failure is responded to the originating xApp, possibly including appropriate reason. [ELSE] Steps 4-5 are executed if the originating xApp is allowed to query the status of the requested training job. Step 4 (M) Near-RT RIC platform looks up the status of corresponding training job. Near-RT RIC platform responds success to the originating xApp, including the queried Step 5 (M) status.

#### 9.7.2.4 Training Request and Result Delivery procedure
The Training Request and Result Delivery procedure allows an xApp to request training result of an AI/ML model from Near- RT RIC platform through providing AI/ML model training data. Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Goal xApp requests to get a training result from the Near-RT RIC platform.
- xApp: Originator of AI/ML model training request;
Actors and Roles
- Near-RT RIC platform: Response to the request of xApp.
- AI/ML workflow services have been registered by Near-RT RIC platform;
Pre-conditions
- At least one training job setup by xApp is running in the Near-RT RIC platform.
Near-RT-RIC platform or xApp has new AI/ML model training data or Address of new AI/ML Begins when model training data and determine to use running training job to train AI/ML model for xApp. Step 1 (M) xApp sends Near-RT-RIC platform training request. [ALT] Step 2-3 are executed if the training job is configured to provide training result in the response. Step 2 (M) Near-RT-RIC platform generates training results. Step 3 (M) Near-RT-RIC platform responds to xApp, with training result. [ELSE] Steps 4-6 are executed if the training job is configured to provide training result via the delivery procedure. Step 4 (M) xApp is responded by the Near-RT RIC platform. Step 5 (M) Near-RT-RIC platform generates training results. Step 6 (M) Near-RT-RIC platform delivers the training result to xApp.

### 9.7.3 Inference service procedures

#### 9.7.3.1 Inference Job Setup procedure
The Inference Job Setup procedure enables an xApp to setup a new inference job in the Near-RT RIC platform. Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Goal xApp requests to setup an inference job in the Near-RT RIC platform.
- xApp: Originator of inference job setup request;
Actors and Roles
- Near-RT RIC platform: Response to the request of xApp.
Pre-conditions • AI/ML workflow services have been registered by Near-RT RIC platform; Begins when xApp determines to setup an inference job in the Near-RT-RIC platform. Step 1 (M) xApp sends a request to Near-RT RIC platform to setup an inference job. Step 2 (M) Near-RT RIC platform checks whether the originating xApp is allowed to setup inference job. [ALT] Step 3 is executed if the originating xApp is not allowed to setup inference job. Step 3 (M) A failure is responded to the originating xApp, possibly including appropriate reason. [ELSE] Steps 4-5 are executed if the originating xApp is allowed to setup inference job. Step 4 (M) Near-RT RIC platform create corresponding inference job. Step 5 (M) Near-RT RIC platform responds success to the originating xApp.

#### 9.7.3.2 Inference Job Update procedure
The Inference Job Update procedure enables an xApp to update a running inference job in the Near-RT RIC platform. Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Goal xApp requests to update an inference job in the Near-RT RIC platform.
- xApp: Originator of inference job update request;
Actors and Roles
- Near-RT RIC platform: Response to the request of xApp.
- AI/ML workflow services have been registered by Near-RT RIC platform;
Pre-conditions
- At least one inference job setup by xApp is running in the Near-RT RIC platform.
Begins when xApp determines to update an Inference Job in the Near-RT-RIC platform. Step 1 (M) xApp sends a request to Near-RT RIC platform to update an inference job. Near-RT RIC platform checks whether the originating xApp is allowed to update the requested Step 2 (M) inference job. [ALT] Step 3 is executed if the originating xApp is not allowed to update the requested inference job. Step 3 (M) A failure is responded to the originating xApp, possibly including appropriate reason. [ELSE] Steps 4-5 are executed if the originating xApp is allowed to update the requested inference job. Step 4 (M) Near-RT RIC platform updates corresponding inference job. Step 5 (M) Near-RT RIC platform responds success to the originating xApp.

#### 9.7.3.3 Inference Job Delete procedure
The Inference Job Delete procedure enables an xApp to delete a running inference job in the Near-RT RIC platform. Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Goal xApp requests to delete an inference job in the Near-RT RIC platform.
- xApp: Originator of inference job delete request;
Actors and Roles
- Near-RT RIC platform: Response to the request of xApp.
- AI/ML workflow services have been registered by Near-RT RIC platform;
Pre-conditions
- At least one inference job setup by xApp is running in the Near-RT RIC platform.
Begins when xApp determines to delete an inference job in the Near-RT-RIC platform. Step 1 (M) xApp sends a request to Near-RT RIC platform to delete an inference job. Near-RT RIC platform checks whether the originating xApp is allowed to delete the requested Step 2 (M) inference job. [ALT] Step 3 is executed if the originating xApp is not allowed to delete the requested inference job. Step 3 (M) A failure is responded to the originating xApp, possibly including appropriate reason. [ELSE] Steps 4-5 are executed if the originating xApp is allowed to delete the requested inference job. Step 4 (M) Near-RT RIC platform deletes corresponding inference job. Step 5 (M) Near-RT RIC platform responds success to the originating xApp.

#### 9.7.3.4 Inference Job Query procedure
The Inference Job Query procedure enables an xApp to query the status of a running inference job in the Near-RT RIC platform. Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Goal xApp requests to query the status of an inference job in the Near-RT RIC platform.
- xApp: Originator of inference job query request;
Actors and Roles
- Near-RT RIC platform: Response to the request of xApp.
- AI/ML workflow services have been registered by Near-RT RIC platform;
Pre-conditions
- At least one inference job setup by xApp is running in the Near-RT RIC platform.
Begins when xApp determines to query the status of an Inference Job in the Near-RT-RIC platform. Step 1 (M) xApp sends a request to Near-RT RIC platform to query the status of an inference job. Near-RT RIC platform checks whether the originating xApp is allowed to query the status of the Step 2 (M) requested inference job. [ALT] Step 3 is executed if the originating xApp is not allowed to query the status of the requested inference job. Step 3 (M) A failure is responded to the originating xApp, possibly including appropriate reason. [ELSE] Steps 4-5 are executed if the originating xApp is allowed to query the status of the requested inference job. Step 4 (M) Near-RT RIC platform looks up the status of corresponding inference job. Near-RT RIC platform responds success to the originating xApp, including the queried Step 5 (M) status.

#### 9.7.3.5 Inference Request and Result Delivery procedures
The Inference Request and Result Delivery procedure allows an xApp to request an AI/ML model inference result from Near- RT RIC platform through providing model input data. Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Goal xApp requests to get an inference result from the Near-RT RIC platform.
- xApp: Originator of AI/ML model inference request;
Actors and Roles
- Near-RT RIC platform: Response to the request of xApp.
- AI/ML workflow services have been registered by Near-RT RIC platform;
Pre-conditions
- At least one inference job setup by xApp is running in the Near-RT RIC platform.
Near-RT-RIC platform has new model input data and determine to use running inference job to Begins when generates inference results for xApp. Step 1 (M) xApp sends Near-RT-RIC platform inference request. [ALT] Step 2-3 are executed if the Inference Job is configured to provide output data in the response. Step 2 (M) Near-RT-RIC platform generates inference results. Step 3 (M) Near-RT-RIC platform responds to xApp, with inference result. [ELSE] Steps 4-6 are executed if the inference job is configured to provide output data via the delivery procedure. Step 4 (M) xApp is responded by the Near-RT RIC platform. Step 5 (M) Near-RT-RIC platform generates inference results. Step 6 (M) Near-RT-RIC platform delivers the inference result to xApp.

### 9.7.4 Model Management and Exposure Service procedures

#### 9.7.4.1 Model Store procedure
The Model Store procedure in the Near-RT RIC allows an xApp to request to store an AI/ML model in the Near-RT RIC platform. An AI/ML Model is identified by a model identifier. Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Goal xApp requests to store an AI/ML model in the Near-RT RIC platform.
- xApp: Originator of Model Store request;
Actors and Roles • Near-RT RIC platform, with the following functionalities: − AI/ML support. Pre-conditions • AI/ML workflow services have been registered by Near-RT RIC platform; Begins when xApp determines to store an AI/ML model in the Near-RT-RIC platform. Step 1 (M) xApp sends a request to Near-RT RIC platform to store an AI/ML model. Step 2 (M) Near-RT RIC platform stores the AI/ML model in an xApp specific space. [ALT] Step 3 is executed if the platform failed to stored the AI/ML model. Step 3 (M) A failure is responded to the originating xApp, possibly including appropriate reason. [ELSE] Step 4 is executed if the platform successfully stored the AI/ML model. Step 4 (M) Near-RT RIC platform responds success to the originating xApp.

#### 9.7.4.2 Stored Model Query procedure
The Stored Model Query procedure in the Near-RT RIC enables an xApp to query the list of stored AI/ML models in the Near- RT RIC. Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Goal An xApp queries the list of stored AI/ML models from the Near-RT RIC.
- xApp: Originator of Stored Model Query request;
Actors and Roles • Near-RT RIC platform, with the following functionalities: − AI/ML support.
- AI/ML workflow services have been registered with Near-RT RIC platform;
Pre-conditions
- At least one AI/ML model has been stored by xApp in the Near-RT RIC Platform
xApp determines to query the list of stored AI/ML models that it has stored from the Near-RT Begins when RIC platform. xApp requests to Near-RT RIC platform to query stored AI/ML models that meets provided Step 1 (M) selection criteria. Step 2 (M) Near-RT RIC platform fetches xApp queried information. [ALT] Step 3 is executed if the platform failed to fetch the xApp queried information. Step 3 (M) A failure is responded to the originating xApp, possibly including appropriate reason. [ELSE] Step 4 is executed if the platform successfully fetched the xApp queried information. Near-RT RIC platform responds success to the originating xApp, with requested AI/ML Step 4 (M) model list.

#### 9.7.4.3 Model Retrieve procedure
The Model Retrieve procedure in the Near-RT RIC enables an xApp to retrieve an AI/ML model it has stored in the Near-RT RIC. Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Goal xApp retrieves an AI/ML model it has stored from the Near-RT RIC platform.
- xApp: Originator of Model Fetch request;
Actors and Roles • Near-RT RIC platform, with the following functionalities: − AI/ML support.
- AI/ML workflow services have been registered with Near-RT RIC platform;
Pre-conditions
- At least one AI/ML model has been stored by xApp in the Near-RT RIC Platform
Begins when xApp determines to retrieve an AI/ML model from the Near-RT-RIC platform. xApp requests to Near-RT RIC platform to retrieve an AI/ML model from the Near-RT-RIC Step 1 (M) platform. Step 2 (M) Near-RT RIC platform retrieves xApp required AI/ML model from Near-RT-RIC platform. [ALT] Step 3 is executed if the platform failed to retrieve the AI/ML model. Step 3 (M) A failure is responded to the originating xApp, possibly including appropriate reason [ELSE] Step 4 is executed if the platform successfully retrieved the AI/ML model. Step 4 (M) Near-RT RIC platform responds success to the originating xApp, with AI/ML Model File.

#### 9.7.4.4 Model Delete procedure
The Model Delete procedure in the Near-RT RIC allows an xApp to request to Near-RT RIC platform to delete an AI/ML model it has stored from the platform. Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Goal xApp intends to delete an AI/ML model it has stored in the Near-RT RIC.
- xApp: Originator of Model Delete request;
Actors and Roles • Near-RT RIC platform, with the following functionalities: − AI/ML support.
- AI/ML workflow services have been registered by Near-RT RIC platform;
Pre-conditions • xApp has already stored the AI/ML model in the Near-RT RIC platform it requests to delete. Begins when xApp determines to delete an AI/ML model in the Near-RT-RIC platform. Step 1 (M) xApp sends a request to Near-RT RIC platform to delete an AI/ML model in the platform. Step 2 (M) Near-RT RIC platform deletes xApp requested AI/ML model in platform. [ALT] Step 3 is executed if the platform failed to delete the requested AI/ML model Step 3 (M) A failure is responded to the originating xApp, possibly including appropriate reason. [ELSE] Steps 4 are executed if the platform successfully deleted the requested AI/ML model Step 4 (M) Near-RT RIC platform responds success to the originating xApp


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG3.TS.UCR-R004-v08.00 (1).md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG3.TS.UCR-R004-v08.00 Technical Specification O-RAN Work Group 3 (Near-Real-time RAN Intelligent"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions [given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1] and the following] apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1]. A1 policy: Type of declarative policies expressed using formal statements that enable the Non-RT RIC function in the SMO to guide the Near-RT RIC function, and hence the RAN, towards better fulfilment of the RAN intent. A1 enrichment information: Information utilized by Near-RT RIC that is collected or derived at SMO/Non-RT RIC either from non-network data sources or from network functions themselves. A1-policy based traffic steering process mode: An operational mode in which the Near-RT RIC is configured through A1 policy to use traffic steering actions to ensure a more specific notion of network performance (for example, applying to smaller groups of E2 nodes and UEs in the RAN) than that which it ensures in the background traffic steering. Background traffic steering processing mode: An operational mode in which the Near-RT RIC is configured through O1 to use traffic steering actions to ensure a general background network performance which applies broadly across E2 nodes and UEs in the RAN. Baseline RAN behavior: The default RAN behavior as configured at the E2 nodes by SMO. E2: Interface connecting the Near-RT RIC and one or more O-CU-CPs, one or more O-CU-UPs, one or more O-DUs, and one or more O-eNBs. E2 node: A logical node terminating E2 interface. In the present document, O-RAN nodes terminating E2 interface are:
- for NR access: O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU or any combination.
- for E-UTRA access: O-eNB.
FCAPS: Fault, Configuration, Accounting, Performance, Security. Intents: A declarative policy to steer or guide the behavior of RAN functions, allowing the RAN function to calculate the optimal result to achieve stated objective. Non-RT RIC (O-RAN Non-Real-Time RAN Intelligent Controller): A logical function that enables non-real-time control and optimization of RAN elements and resources, AI/ML workflow including model training and updates, and policy-based guidance of applications/features in Near-RT RIC. Near-RT RIC (O-RAN Near-Real-Time RAN Intelligent Controller): A logical function that enables near-real-time control and optimization of RAN elements and resources via fine-grained (e.g., UE basis, cell basis) data collection and actions over E2 interface. O-CU (O-RAN Central Unit): A logical node hosting RRC, SDAP and PDCP protocols. O-CU-CP (O-RAN Central Unit – Control Plane): A logical node hosting the RRC and the control plane part of the PDCP protocol. O-CU-UP (O-RAN Central Unit – User Plane): A logical node hosting the user plane part of the PDCP protocol and the SDAP protocol. O-DU (O-RAN Distributed Unit): A logical node hosting RLC/MAC/High-PHY layers based on a lower layer functional split. O-eNB (O-RAN eNB): An eNB or ng-eNB that supports E2 interface. O-RU (O-RAN Radio Unit): A logical node hosting Low-PHY layer and RF processing based on a lower layer functional split. This is similar to 3GPP’s “TRP” or “RRH” but more specific in including the Low-PHY layer (FFT/iFFT, PRACH extraction). O1: Interface between orchestration & management entities (orchestration/NMS) and O-RAN managed elements, for operation and management, by which FCAPS management, software management, file management and other similar functions can be achieved. RAN UE group: Aggregations of UEs whose grouping is set in the E2 nodes through E2 procedures also based on the scope of A1 policies. These groups can then be the target of E2 CONTROL or POLICY messages. Traffic steering action: The use of a mechanism to alter RAN behavior. Such actions include E2 procedures such as CONTROL and POLICY. Traffic steering inner loop: The part of the traffic steering processing, triggered by the arrival of periodic TS related KPM (Key Performance Measurement) from E2 node, which includes UE grouping, setting additional data collection from the RAN, as well as selection and execution of one or more optimization actions to enforce traffic steering policies. Traffic steering outer loop: The part of the traffic steering processing, triggered by the Near-RT RIC setting up or updating traffic steering aware resource optimization procedure based on information from A1 policy setup or update, A1 Enrichment Information (EI) and/or outcome of Near-RT RIC evaluation, which includes the initial configuration (preconditions) and injection of related A1 policies, triggering conditions for TS changes. Traffic steering processing mode: An operational mode in which either the RAN or the Near-RT RIC is configured to ensure a particular network performance. This performance includes such aspects as cell load and throughput, and it can apply differently to different E2 nodes and UEs. Throughout this process, traffic steering actions are used to fulfill the requirements of this configuration. Traffic steering target: The intended performance result that is desired from the network, which is configured to Near-RT RIC over O1.

## 3.2 Symbols
Void

## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations [given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1] and the following] apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1]. KPI Key Performance Indicator KQI Key Quality Indicator MBB Mobile BroadBand SMG Spatial Multiplexing Group SMO Service Management and Orchestration

# 4 Use cases

## 4.1 Traffic steering
This use case provides the motivation, description, and requirements for Near-RT RIC and E2 interface to support traffic steering, whose end-to-end requirements are specified in [32].

### 4.1.1 Background and goal of the use case
The rapid traffic growth and multiple frequency bands utilized in a commercial network make it challenging to steer the traffic in a balanced distribution. Typical controls are limited to adjusting the cell reselection and handover parameters; and modifying load calculations and cell priorities. The goal of Near-RT RIC traffic steering is to interpret the policies received over A1 and to determine the optimum changes it can make towards achieving those goals. It may also leverage the A1 enrichment information. Traffic steering may reuse mechanisms provided by other use cases to effect the changes necessary to achieve its goals. More specifically, Near-RT RIC triggers E2 procedure and related control/policies so as to obtain network performance that would fulfill the criteria identified in the A1 policies.

### 4.1.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case
1) OAM functions in SMO domain:
- Collect necessary measurement metrics from network level measurement report and enrichment data (can acquire
data from application) for constructing/training relevant AI/ML models.
- Deploy or update, configure the relevant TS optimization AI/ML models to Near-RT RIC via O1.
2) Non-RT RIC in SMO domain:
- Send A1 policies and receive policy feedback to/from Near-RT RIC to drive resource optimization at RAN level.
- E.g., TS targets as specified in O-RAN.WG2.A1AP [24].
3) Near-RT RIC:
- Supports update of AI/ML models from SMO.
- Supports inference, such as traffic prediction, using AI/ML models from Non-RT RIC based on network data, e.g.,
measurement reports from E2 node.
- Supports interpretation and execution of A1 policies from Non-RT RIC.
- Sends TS resource optimization related policies and commands to E2 node to influence RRM behavior.
- Sends the relevant A1 policy feedback to Non-RT RIC for potential policy update.
- Sends the relevant O1 performance data to OAM functions; these can be used by Non-RT RIC for potential policy
update. 4) E2 node:
- Supports reporting of UE context, network measurements, and UE measurements to Near-RT RIC over E2 interface.
- Executes policies and commands received from Near-RT RIC over E2 interface.
- Supports network and UE performance report to OAM functions in SMO domain over O1 interface.

### 4.1.3 Solutions
In this clause the possible processing modes of traffic steering are described. Three general traffic steering processing modes and the transitions between them are shown in figure 4.1.3-1. These modes represent the way the Near-RT RIC (or RAN) operates on a given group of UEs, and not the operation of any component as a whole. As such, the Near-RT RIC, could be operating in both modes 1 and 2 concurrently for different sets of UEs. For example, the transition from mode 0 or 1 to 2 occurs only for a group of UE defined by the A1 policy scope. At the same time, other UE groups may still be handled in mode 0 and/or 1. TS Mode 0: A1-P Create Policy O1 configuration Baseline from Non-RT RIC from SMO O1 configuration removal A1-P Delete Policy A1-P Delete Policy TS Mode 2: TS Mode 1: A1 Policy based Near- Background Near-RT RT RIC Processing RIC Processing A1-P Create Policy from Non-RT RIC The three processing modes are described in more detail below: 0. “Baseline” traffic steering behavior: OAM functions in SMO domain uses O1 configuration on one or more E2 node to set up a desired baseline behavior. This also sets up baseline performance monitoring of E2 node by the SMO. In this mode, Near-RT RIC is not involved. 1. “Background” Near-RT RIC processing: OAM functions in SMO domain uses O1 configuration of Near-RT RIC to set up a desired “background Near-RT RIC behavior”. In this mode the Near-RT RIC sets up E2 mechanisms to monitor E2 node and uses traffic steering related E2 mechanisms to achieve the desired background behavior of the set of E2 nodes connected to the Near-RT RIC. 2. “A1-policy based” Near-RT RIC processing: This mode can be entered from either mode 0 or mode 1. Non-RT RIC in SMO domain uses A1-P to specify an A1 guided behavior for a targeted subset of E2 nodes or UEs. If entering this from mode 1, this will have the effect of modifying the existing Near-RT RIC “background” behavior to include a more specific A1 guided behavior. In this mode, the Near-RT RIC can either set up or modify E2 mechanisms used to monitor E2 nodes and will use traffic steering related E2 mechanisms to obtain the desired behavior of some targeted sub-set of E2 nodes or UEs. This mode terminates when the corresponding A1-P policy delete message is received from Non-RT RIC in SMO domain and the system returns to either mode 0 or mode 1, depending on whether or not OAM functions in SMO domain had previously configured the optional Near-RT RIC “background” role (mode 1).
> NOTE: Processing mode 0 is strictly not in scope for WG3. It is described here for completeness and to clearly state what is the
starting point prior to the WG2 and WG3 defined mechanisms. Processing mode 2 contain an ‘outer loop’ and an ‘inner loop’. In the inner loop, a number of different “E2 mechanism” can be used (policy, report/control or insert/control) towards a number of different target RAN functions in order to either exercise existing RAN mechanisms or modifying their ongoing behavior. The appropriate mechanism and target RAN function would depend upon the RAN function capabilities to support a given E2 mechanism, the A1-P scope and policy, the O1 configuration of the RIC and the performance observed through E2 monitoring.

#### 4.1.3.1 Near-RT RIC A1-policy based traffic steering
The context of Near-RT RIC A1-policy based traffic steering is captured in table 4.1.3.1-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Drive traffic management in RAN in accordance with defined intents, policies, Goal and enrichment information from the Non-RT RIC using A1 interface.
- OAM functions in SMO domain: Performance data and training data
collection, AI model management.
- Non-RT RIC in SMO domain: Creates and updates A1 policies, AI model
training targeting to TS optimization.
- Near-RT RIC: Enforces A1 policies and generates RIC CONTROL and/or
Actors and Roles POLICY.
- E2 node: RIC CONTROL and POLICY execution and RIC REPORT
creation. Refer to 4.1.2 for more details.
- All relevant functions and components are instantiated.
Assumptions - A1, O1 and E2 interface connectivity is established.
- A1 policy scope defined.
- Network is operational with default configuration.
- OAM functions have configured a baseline measurement configuration and
the Non-RT RIC has access to this data.
- (optional) OAM functions have configured traffic steering targets in Near-
RT RIC through O1 interface.
- OAM functions have configured baseline traffic steering parameters in E2
Pre-conditions node(s) through O1 interface.
- (optional) Near-RT RIC has access to the necessary data related to traffic
steering from the E2 node by means of a RIC report procedure.
- Non-RT RIC analyzes the historical data from RAN for training the relevant
AI/ML models to be deployed or updated in the Near-RT RIC, as well as AI/ML models required for non-real-time optimization of configuration and policies. Non-RT RIC and/or Near-RT RIC perform data evaluation, determine that TS- Begins when aware optimization is required to be initiated or updated and establishes target(s). (Start of outer loop control) Non-RT RIC evaluates the collected data and A1 policy feedback, if required, Step 1 (O) and generates or updates the appropriate TS-aware resource optimization policy, such as TS targets, and sends it to Near-RT RIC via A1 interface. Step 2 (O) Non-RT RIC sends optional traffic steering related A1 enrichment information. Based on received A1 policy and/or A1-EI from Non-RT RIC or internal trigger Step 3 (M) and/or internal evaluation and trigger, Near-RT RIC sets up or updates the TS- aware resource optimization procedure. Near-RT RIC subscribes to a UE context information and measurement metrics Step 4 (M) via E2 interface. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use (Start of inner loop control) Step 5 (M) E2 nodes report the UE context information and E2 measurements via RIC REPORT periodically or event-triggered. Near-RT RIC evaluates the performance data from E2 nodes (including performance data from different E2 nodes for the same UE) and finds the Step 6 (M) performance is out of TS targets which are indicated in the A1 policy and/or internal Near-RT RIC TS targets. Based on the UE context information, E2 measurement metrics (RIC REPORT), and A1 policy, Near-RT RIC may generate new or modify the existing E2 policies and sends them to E2 nodes. Near-RT RIC may also generate control command(s) and send them to E2 node(s) to trigger re-allocation of radio resources so that TS indicators can move back to the limits outlined in the A1 policies. Step 7 (M) E2 node functions target of E2 policy and control commands may be:
- E-UTRAN-NR dual connectivity
- Carrier aggregation
- Connected mode mobility
- Idle mode mobility
Step 4 to Step 7 may repeat. (End of inner loop control) If required, Near-RT RIC sends information to the SMO domain using A1 policy feedback and/or O1-PM. The Non-RT RIC may use this information and information collected from E2 nodes using O1-PM as policy feedback to assess the performance of TS optimization function in Near-RT RIC, or to assess the outcome of the applied A1 policies. Subsequently, an A1 policy can be updated. Step 8 (O) In parallel, the Near-RT RIC may use available information to assess the performance of TS optimization function in Near-RT RIC, and/or to assess the outcome of the applied A1 policies. Subsequently, Near-RT RIC TS optimization targets can be updated Step 1 to Step 8 may repeat (End of outer loop control) Non-RT RIC decides to delete TS-aware resource optimization policy and sends Ends when the related message or following internal trigger, the Near-RT RIC terminates the TS-aware resource optimization procedure. Exceptions None. Non-RT RIC continues to collect and monitor TS related measurement data from E2 node. Post Conditions Near-RT RIC continues to collect and monitor TS related measurement data from E2 node. REQ-Near-RT-RIC-TS-FUN1, REQ-Near-RT-RIC-TS-FUN2, REQ-E2-TS- FUN1, REQ-E2-TS-FUN2, REQ-E2-TS-FUN3, REQ-E2-TS-FUN4, REQ-E2- Traceability TS-FUN5, REQ-E2-TS-FUN6, REQ-E2-TS-FUN7, REQ-E2-TS-FUN8, REQ- E2-TS-FUN9, REQ-E2-TS-FUN10 Box “Service Management and Orchestration” #gold Box “O-RAN” #lightpink OAM <-> ran : <<O1>> RAN Data & Configuration collection measurements & E2-node state]) end end The overall procedure for Near-RT RIC A1-policy based traffic steering use case is given in figure 4.1.3.1-1.

### 4.1.4 Required data
This clause elaborates the Near-RT RIC and the E2 node capabilities necessary for implementation of the traffic steering use case. The requirements are specified in clause 5.

#### 4.1.4.1 Control over E2
Mobility control: Serving cell can be chosen based on the resource status and QoS of the UE(s) targeted by an A1 traffic steering policy. Moreover, load balancing can be achieved to improve the overall network performance. The following procedures can be used for traffic steering:
- Handover from the source cell to the target cell
- Configuration/reconfiguration of handover restriction list
- Configuration of idle mode mobility parameters
- Enable, disable, or modify CA (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.300 [14], 3GPP TS 36.300 [8], 3GPP TS 38.473 [21], 3GPP
TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11])
- Enable, disable, or modify dual connectivity (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.300 [14], 3GPP TS 36.300 [8], 3GPP TS
37.340 [13], 3GPP TS 38.473 [21], 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]) Both RIC POLICY and RIC CONTROL can be used.

#### 4.1.4.2 UE context information from E2 nodes
The followings are examples of UE context information identified as required:
- UE ID (as specified in [32])
- Slice level: S-NSSAI
- DRB level: e.g., established DRB ID, mapping with QoS flows, etc.
- QoS related: e.g., E-RAB level QoS parameters (4G, NSA) or QoS flow level QoS parameters (NG-RAN).
- UE capabilities: CA and DC capabilities
For example, UE ID, S-NSSAI, DRB ID, or QCI/5QI can be used to derive the QoS requirements and the resource occupation; the UE capabilities may be required to select the appropriate RRM action (e.g., CA/DC configuration).

#### 4.1.4.3 Measurements from E2 nodes
The E2 measurements are necessary for inference and prediction in the Near-RT RIC as the driver for decisions in addition to KPMs. For the traffic steering use case, the Near-RT RIC can translate an A1 policy (relatively static targets) into a flexible selection of controls over E2 (e.g., handover control, DC, CA, idle mode mobility) by taking into account the RAN resource utilization, cell level and the UE level performance, the radio conditions, etc. The examples of measurement information identified as required are listed in table 4.1.4.3-1 below. Measurement Measurement Examples Type
- DL/UL Total PRB Usage, Distribution of DL/UL Total PRB Usage, DL/UL GBR PRB
Usage, DL/UL non-GBR PRB Usage, RRC Connection Number, Available RRC Connection Capacity Value, Mean and Maximum Number of Active UEs per DRB in the DL/UL, DL/UL Scheduling PDCCH CCE Usage, DL/UL Composite Available Capacity, DL/UL Cell PDCP SDU Data Volume (including secondary RAT usage for EN-DC/MR- Cell/SSB area DC), Handover success ratio related - DL/UL SSB Area Total PRB Usage, DL/UL SSB Area GBR PRB Usage, DL/UL SSB Area measurements non-GBR PRB Usage, SSB Area Capacity Value
- DL/UL PRB usage per QCI, DL/UL PRB usage per 5QI, DL/UL PRB usage per slice,
Slice Available Capacity Value As specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], 3GPP TS 36.314 [9], 3GPP TS 38.314 [16], 3GPP TS 38.423 [19], 3GPP TS 38.463 [20] and 3GPP TS 38.473 [21]
- Average DL/UL throughput
- DL/UL PRB usage
- DL/UL Scheduled IP throughput
E2-node user plane
- Buffer Status Information (e.g., UL BSR)
measurements per- UE / UE group As specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], 3GPP TS 28.552[6], 3GPP TS 36.314 [9], 3GPP TS 38.314 [16], 3GPP TS 38.423 [19], 3GPP TS 38.473 [21], 3GPP TS 38.463 [20], 3GPP TS 36.321 [10] and 3GPP TS 38.321 [17]
- RSRP and RSRQ measurements
- SINR measurements
UE L1/L2/L3 - CQI/MCS measurements measurements - Location and Velocity measurements As specified in 3GPP TS 36.331 [11] and 3GPP TS 38.331 [18]

#### 4.1.4.4 E2 node configuration
Cell level configuration parameters, such as PCI, neighbor relations and related offsets etc. are needed at Near-RT RIC in order to e.g., configure UE measurements monitor cell level performance and manage mobility control (handover and cell reselection) according to the network topology and the related E2 parameters.

## 4.2 QoS based resource optimization
This use case provides the background and motivation for the O-RAN architecture to support near real-time QoS aware resource optimization. Based on the end-to-end requirements for the QoS based resource optimization use case specified in [32], some high-level functional descriptions and requirements over Near-RT RIC and E2 interface are introduced.

### 4.2.1 Background and goal of the use case
The network shall offer means to prioritize resources while preserving the required QoS properties, e.g., reliability, latency, bandwidth requirements, as specified in 3GPP TS 23.203 [2]. Current RAN network coverage and capacity depends on rigorous planning and configuration. However, due to varying nature of traffic demands and radio channels as well as multiple services to co-exist, it is hard to satisfy all QoS requirements simultaneously. In summary, it is important for an E2 node to achieve QoS targets as smoothly as possible. The QoS aware resource optimization should provide a refined granularity of radio resource allocation based on varying radio conditions and traffics in order to meet the diverse requirements of reliability, latency, and bandwidth simultaneously. In addition, it should coordinate allocation of radio resources for co-existing multiple services, which may have different priorities, to achieve the optimal utilization of radio resources. In case when the network performance data is observed outside the boundary of the defined QoS targets, the Near-RT RIC should be able to trigger re-allocation of radio resources so that the QoS indicators can move back within limits outlined in the A1 policies.

### 4.2.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case
1) OAM functions in SMO domain:
- Collect necessary measurement metrics from network level measurement report and enrichment data (can acquire data
from application) for constructing/training relevant AI/ML models.
- Deploy or update, configure the relevant QoS optimization AI/ML models to Near-RT RIC via O1.
2) Non-RT RIC in SMO domain:
- Send A1 policies to and receive policy feedback from Near-RT RIC to drive resource optimization at RAN level.
- E.g., QoS targets as specified in 3GPP TS 23.203 [2], such as GFBR, MFBR, priority level, PDB.
- See O-RAN.WG2.A1AP [24] for more information.
3) Near-RT RIC:
- Support update of AI/ML models from SMO.
- Support inference, such as QoS prediction, using AI/ML models from Non-RT RIC based on network data, e.g.,
measurement reports from E2 node.
- Support interpretation and execution of A1 policies from Non-RT RIC.
- Sending QoS resource optimization related policies and commands to E2 node to influence RRM behavior.
- Sending the relevant A1 policy feedback to Non-RT RIC for potential policy update.
- Sending the relevant O1 performance data to OAM functions, can be used by Non-RT RIC for potential policy update.
4) E2 node:
- Support reporting of UE context, network measurements, and UE measurements to Near-RT RIC over E2 interface.
- Executes policies and commands received from Near-RT RIC over E2 interface.
- Support network and UE performance report to OAM functions in SMO domain over O1 interface.

### 4.2.3 Solutions
The context of QoS based resource optimization use case is captured in table 4.2.3-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use QoS-aware resource optimization in E2 nodes in accordance with A1 policies and Goal O1 configuration.
- OAM functions in SMO domain: Performance data and training data collection,
AI model training targeting to QoS optimization.
- Non-RT RIC in SMO domain: Creates and updates A1 policies.
- Near-RT RIC: Enforces A1 policies and generates RIC CONTROL and/or
Actors and Roles POLICY.
- E2 node: RIC CONTROL and POLICY execution and RIC REPORT creation.
Refer to 4.2.2 for more details.
- All relevant functions and components are instantiated and configured.
Assumptions
- A1, O1, E2 interface connectivity is established.
Network is operational with default configuration. OAM functions have established RAN data collection, and Non-RT RIC has access to this data. Non-RT RIC analyzes the history data from RAN and triggers SMO to train the Pre-conditions relevant AI/ML models which are deployed or updated in Near-RT RIC via O1 interface. Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC have exchanged capabilities for the support of QoS- aware resource optimization. Begins when QoS-aware optimization policy is required to be initiated or updated. (Start of outer loop control) Non-RT RIC evaluates the collected data and A1 policy feedback, if required, and Step 1 (O) generates or updates the appropriate QoS-aware resource optimization policy, such as QoS targets, and sends it to Near-RT RIC via A1 interface. When Near-RT RIC receives an A1 policy from Non-RT RIC, Near-RT RIC initiates Step 2 (M) the corresponding optimization procedure. (Start of inner loop control) Step 3 (M) Near-RT RIC subscribes to a UE context information and measurement metrics via E2 interface. E2 nodes report the UE context information and E2 measurements via RIC Step 4 (M) REPORT periodically or event-triggered. Near-RT RIC evaluates the performance data from E2 nodes (including performance data from different E2 nodes for the same UE) and finds the Step 5 (M) performance is out of QoS targets which are indicated in the A1 policy. If performance is within the targets, Near-RT RIC keeps monitoring. Based on the UE context information, E2 measurement metrics (RIC REPORT), and A1 policy, Near-RT RIC may generate new or modify the existing E2 policies and sends them to E2 nodes. Near-RT RIC may also generate control command(s) Step 6 (M) and send them to E2 node(s) to trigger re-allocation of radio resources so that QoS indicators can move back to the limits outlined in the A1 policies. Step 3 to Step 6 may repeat. (End of inner loop control) <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use If required, Near-RT RIC sends policy feedback to Non-RT RIC to assess the performance of QoS optimization function in Near-RT RIC, or to assess the Step 7 (O) outcome of the applied A1 policies. Subsequently, an A1 policy can be updated. Step 1 to Step 7 may repeat (End of outer loop control) Non-RT RIC decides to delete QoS-aware resource optimization policy and sends Ends when the related message to Near-RT RIC. Exceptions - Non-RT RIC continues to collect and evaluate RAN data related to the QoS-aware Post Conditions optimization use case. REQ-E2-QoS-FUN1, REQ-E2-QoS-FUN2, REQ-E2-QoS-FUN3, REQ-E2-QoS- Traceability FUN4, REQ-E2-QoS-FUN5, REQ-E2-QoS-FUN6 Box “Service Management and Orchestration” #gold Box “O-RAN” #lightpink ran <-> OF : <<O1>> RAN data collection end end The overall procedure for QoS based resource optimization use case is given in figure 4.2.3-1.

### 4.2.4 Required data
This clause elaborates the Near-RT RIC and the E2 node capabilities necessary for implementation of the QoS based resource optimization use case. The requirements are specified in clause 5.

#### 4.2.4.1 Control over E2
1) DRB control: RB control can be applied for modification of the following QoS properties:
- DRB QoS modification (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.473 [21] and 3GPP TS 23.501 [3]): The DRB level QoS may be
tuned to accommodate A1 policy requirement.
- QoS flow remapping (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.473 [21]): The mapping relationship between QoS flows and DRBs
may be adjusted.
- Logical channel reconfiguration (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]): The relevant
parameters can be considered, e.g., priority, prioritized bit rate, bucket size duration, etc.
- Radio admission control (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]): DRB admission control such
as reject, or release may be applied.
- Modification of dual-connectivity DRB (as specified in 3GPP TS 37.340 [13]): Change of bearer termination point (MN
or SN) and/or bearer types (MCG/SCG/split), and control of split ratio for a split bearer.
- Activation and deactivation of packet duplication and configuration of the number of legs in DC, CA, or DC+CA
scenarios (as specified in 3GPP TS 36.300 [8] and 3GPP TS 38.300 [14]). RIC CONTROL (e.g., request for QoS flow remapping) or RIC POLICY (e.g., DRB admission policy) can be applicable. 2) Radio resource allocation, such as configuration of DRX, semi-persistent scheduling (SPS), or guidance for the scheduling and rate selection in MAC. For example, based on prediction, an E2 policy or control to reconfigure SPS configuration or ConfiguredGrantConfig for UL may be generated.
- DRX reconfiguration (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.473 [21], 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]): Long
DRX cycle length, short DRX cycle length as well as short DRX cycle timer can be considered.
- SR periodicity reconfiguration (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]): Both sr-ProhibitTimer
and sr-TransMax can be treated.
- SPS configuration (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]): Both SPS-Config (DL) and
ConfiguredGrantConfig (UL) can be treated.
- Reconfiguration of slice level PRB quota (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.541 [4])
- Configuration of CQI table with certain target block error rate (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.214 [15])
Both RIC POLICY and RIC CONTROL can be used. For example, SPS can be configured via RIC CONTROL; RIC POLICY can be used, e.g., to set the guidance for the scheduler. 3) Radio access control: Depending on operator's policies, deployment scenarios, subscriber profiles, and available services, different criterion will be used in determining which access attempt should be allowed or blocked when congestion occurs in the system, as specified in 3GPP TS 22.261 [1]. For example, access control may be applied to restrict access of other UEs for a specific cell in order to achieve better QoS for some UEs. A cell-level, UE-level, or slice-level access control can be applied. Four categories of radio access control are indicated as below:
- RACH backoff
- RRC connection reject
- RRC connection release
- Access barring
Both RIC POLICY and RIC CONTROL can be used. 4) Connection mobility control: For example, a neighbouring cell may be selected for the optimization of QoS of a specific UE. A neighbour handover restriction list may be configured to prevent the UEs from HO to some neighbouring cells in order to guarantee QoS of the UEs served by those neighbouring cells. Or a capacity boosting mechanism can be used to achieve better QoS, e.g., enable CA/DC.
- Handover from the source cell to the target cell
- Configuration/reconfiguration of handover restriction list
- Enable, disable, or modify CA (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.473 [21], 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11])
- Enable, disable, or modify dual connectivity (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.473 [21], 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS
36.331 [11]) Both RIC POLICY and RIC CONTROL can be used. For the specific requirements and related stage-3 E2SM works, please refer to the traffic steering use case defined in clause 4.1. 5) UE transmit power control: For example, when the uplink interference is too large, it is difficult to achieve the uplink QoS target. In this case, UE transmit power control will be used to adjust the amount of interference to achieve required QoS. Near-RT RIC configures target value of uplink received quality such as received SINR or power at E2 node. E2 node controls the UE power by executing open-loop/closed-loop power control to UE to achieve target value configured by Near-RT RIC.
- Configuration or modification of target value of uplink received quality such as received SINR or received power at E2
node. RIC CONTROL, RIC POLICY can be used.
> NOTE: When the target UEs are at the cell edge, their QoS of uplink can be improved by increasing their transmit power and/or
allocating additional resources to the UEs. Hence for UEs at the cell edge, the optimization should consider the impact on serving and neighbour cell.

#### 4.2.4.2 UE context information from E2 nodes
The followings are examples of UE context information identified as required:
- UE ID (as specified in [32])
- Slice level: S-NSSAI
- DRB level: e.g., established DRB ID, mapping with QoS flows, etc.
- QoS related: e.g., E-RAB level QoS parameters (4G, NSA) or QoS flow level QoS parameters (NG-RAN)
- UE capabilities: CA and DC capabilities
- RLC/MAC/PHY level: e.g., logical channel, DRX, scheduling request, SPS configurations
For example, UE ID, S-NSSAI, DRB ID, or QCI/5QI can be used for different granularity of controls over E2; an established DRB level information may be needed to change the mapping of QoS flows to a specific DRB or modify DRB attributes; the UE capabilities may be required to make sure if CA/DC can be enabled.

#### 4.2.4.3 Measurements from E2 nodes
The E2 measurements are necessary for inference and prediction in the Near-RT RIC as the driver for decisions in addition to KPMs. For the QoS based resource optimization use case, the Near-RT RIC can translate an A1 policy (relatively static targets) into a flexible selection of controls over E2 (e.g., RB control, handover, access control) by taking into account the runtime status in the Near-RT RIC. Therefore, it is required to specify those measurement parameters as possible as needed over E2 interface. The examples of UE-level, cell-level, and slice-level measurement information identified as required are listed in table 4.2.4.3- below. Measurement Type Measurement Examples Radio channel info 1. CQI (*) available at DU 1. RSRP (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]) Radio channel info 2. RSRQ (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]) available at CU- 3. SINR (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]) CP for serving cell See NOTE 1. Radio channel info 1. RSRP (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]) available at CU- 2. RSRQ (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]) CP for 3. SINR (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]) neighboring cells See NOTE 2. UE-level 1. DL/UL UE PRB usage for data traffic (*) 2. Average DL UE throughput in gNB (*) 3. Distribution of DL UE throughput in gNB (*) 4. Percentage of unrestricted DL UE data volume in gNB (*) 5. Packet Delay and RAN part packet delay components (*) 6. Packet Delay (*) L2 7. Data volume (per QCI, as specified in 3GPP TS 36.314 [9], clause 4.1.8) 8. DL PDCP occupied buffer size (*) 9. DL unused PDCP buffer size (*) 10. Packet Loss Rate per DRB (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.314 [16], clause 4.2.1.5) and per logical channel (*) Measurement Type Measurement Examples 1. CQI (available at DU; as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.11.1) 2. MCS Distribution in PDSCH (available at DU; as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.12.1) 3. DL/UL Total PRB usage (available at DU; as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.2.1 and 5.1.1.2.2 and in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clauses 4.5.3 and 4.5.4) 4. Distribution of DL/UL Total PRB usage (available at DU; as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.2.3 and 5.1.1.2.4 and in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clauses 4.5.10 and 4.5.11) 5. DL/UL PRB used for data traffic (available at DU; optionally split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.2.5 and 5.1.1.2.7) 6. DL/UL PRB usage for traffic (per QCI, as specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clauses 4.5.1 and 4.5.2) 7. DL/UL Total available PRB (available at DU; as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.2.6 and 5.1.1.2.8) 8. DL/UL PRB full utilization (as specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clauses 4.5.9.1 and 4.5.9.2) 9. Total number of DL/UL TBs (available at DU; split into subcounters per layer at MU-MIMO case, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.7.3 and 5.1.1.7.8 and in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clauses 4.5.7.1 and 4.5.7.3) 10. Total error number of DL/UL TBs (available at DU; split into subcounters per layer at MU-MIMO case, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.7.4 and 5.1.1.7.9 and in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clauses 4.5.7.2 and 4.5.7.4) 11. Average DL UE throughput in gNB (available at DU; optionally split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.3.1) 12. Distribution of DL UE throughput in gNB (available at DU; optionally split Cell-level L2 into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.3.2) 13. Percentage of unrestricted DL UE data volume in gNB (available at DU; optionally split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.3.5) 14. Packet Delay (available at DU and CU-UP; optionally split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.3.3) 15. RAN part packet delay components (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.314 [16], clause 4.2.1.2) 16. Packet Delay (per QCI, as specified in 3GPP TS 36.314 [9], clause 4.1.4) 17. DL/UL Cell PDCP SDU Data Volume (available at CU-UP; per PLMN ID and per QoS level (mapped 5QI) and per S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.2.1 for non-split gNB, clause 5.1.3.6.2 for split gNB; per PLMN ID and per E-RAB QoS profile (QCI, ARP and GBR), as specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clause 4.4.7) 18. Mean number of Active UEs in the DL/UL per cell (available at DU; optionally split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.23.1 and 5.1.1.23.3) 19. Max number of Active UEs in the DL/UL per cell (available at DU; optionally split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.23.2 and 5.1.1.23.4) 20. Average number of Active UEs (per QCI, as specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clause 4.4.2) 21. Packet Loss Rate (available at CU-UP or DU; optionally split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and Measurement Type Measurement Examples subcounters per supported S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.3.1) 22. Packet Loss Rate (per QCI, as specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clause 4.4.4) 23. DL Packet Drop Rate (available at CU-UP or DU; optionally split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.3.2) 24. DL Packet Drop Rate (per QCI, as specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clause 4.4.3.2)
> NOTE 1: Include periodical measurement report and/or RRC event trigger measurement report (A1-A6, B1-B2) (as
specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [12]).
> NOTE 2: Include periodical measurement report and/or RRC event trigger measurement report (A1-A6, B1-B2) (as
specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]). (*) Detailed measurement definition will be provided in E2SM specifications.

## 4.3 RAN slice SLA assurance
The 3GPP standards architected a sliceable 5G infrastructure which allows creation and management of customized networks to meet specific service requirements that can be demanded by future applications, services and business verticals. Such a flexible architecture needs different requirements to be specified in terms of functionality, performance and group of users which can greatly vary from one service to the other. The 5G standardization efforts have gone into defining specific slices and their Service Level Agreements (SLAs) based on application/service type as specified in 3GPP TS 22.261 [1]. Since network slicing is conceived to be an end-to-end feature that includes the core network, the transport network and the radio access network (RAN), these requirements should be met at any slice subnet during the life-time of a network slice as specified in 3GPP TS 28.530 [4], especially in RAN side. Exemplary slice performance requirements are specified in terms of throughput, energy efficiency, latency and reliability at a high level in SDOs such as 3GPP TS 22.261 [1] and GSMA [22]. These requirements are defined as a reference for SLA/contractual agreements for each slice, which individually need proper handling in NG-RAN. Although network slicing support is started to be defined with 3GPP Release 15, slice assurance mechanisms in RAN needs to be further addressed to achieve deployable network slicing in an open RAN environment. It is necessary to assure the SLAs by dynamically controlling slice configurations based on slice specific performance information. Existing RAN performance measurements as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6] and information model definitions as specified in 3GPP TS 28.541 [5] are not enough to support RAN slice SLA assurance use cases. This use case is intended to clarify necessary mechanisms and parameters for RAN slice SLA assurance. In the context of the RAN, the SLA assurance parameters sent over the A1 interface help the Near-RT RIC guide the behavior of the E2 nodes (O-CU-UP, O-CU-CP, O-DU). The Non-RT RIC utilizes the slice SLA information and performance metrics to derive the necessary set of A1 policies and sends those to the Near-RT RICs related to a network slice. Each subtending Near- RT RICs uses these A1 policies for further cell-level and/or UE-level policy guidance and/or control action over the E2 interface that affects the cells and/or UEs, involved in the network slice, served by the respective E2 nodes. The combined guidance is handled as one or more A1 policies and/or E2 policies and/or E2 control actions. The intention of the SLA assurance parameters in the RAN context is to provide guidance to the E2 nodes for assuring SLAs of the network slices in the radio access network.

### 4.3.1 Background and goal of the use case
In the 5G era, network slicing is a prominent feature which provides end-to-end connectivity and data processing tailored to specific business requirements. These requirements include customizable network capabilities such as the support of very high data rates, traffic densities, service availability and very low latency. According to 5G standardization efforts, the 5G system can support the needs of the business through the specification of several service needs such as data rate, traffic capacity, user density, latency, reliability, and availability. These capabilities are always provided based on a Service Level Agreement (SLA) between the mobile operator and the business customer, which brought up interest for mechanisms to ensure slice SLAs and prevent its possible violations. O-RAN’s open interfaces and AI/ML based architecture will enable such challenging mechanisms to be implemented and help pave the way for operators to realize the opportunities of network slicing in an efficient manner. 5G core and O-RAN cooperation for SLA enforcement The network functions and components that are related with SLA enforcement within 5G Core (5GC) and O-RAN are shown in figure 4.3.1-1. Although the 5GC enforces most of the SLA parameters, the components of the 5GC have a comprehensive view of the entire wireless network but from a core perspective. 3GPP Release 17 introduces the concept of a Network Slice Admission Control Function (NSACF). This debuted from the 3GPP TR 23.700-40 [i.3], and normative as specified in 3GPP TS 23.501 [31], clause 5.15.11. The purpose of the NSACF is to enforce some of the slice SLA parameters from a 5G core perspective. While NSACF handles slice-specific user admission control into the network as specified in GSMA NG.116 [22] GST criterion, the AMF allows the UE to access slice(s) through S-NSSAI or NSSAI requests through NSACF interaction. Together, they can perform network-level policy enforcement. However, these components do not have the detailed knowledge of RAN, such as RAN resources usage or where specific UEs are geographically located within a gNB. These 5GC components can perform only at a “network view” and they also do not have control over RAN resources. O-RAN SLA assurance is independent of and complements 5GC SLA policy enforcement. Within the RAN, the Near-RT RIC provides unique SLA policy actions within the scope of E2 nodes based on the A1 policy guidance received from the Non-RT RIC. Non-RT RIC & Near-RT RIC provide RAN guidance for SLA objectives As shown in figure 4.3.1-2, the Non-Real Time RIC obtains the SLA parameters from SMO. The Non-RT RIC has a system level view of RAN topology, configuration and performance, so rApps can provide ongoing guidance and decompose SLA objects to the subtending Near-RT RICs. The Non-RT RIC then translates the SLA parameters into SLA objective A1 policies to its subtending Near-RT RIC(s). In some cases, the SLA parameters are already RAN or UE specific. Those SLA parameters would then not need any change in their values and would be “passed-through” to the Near-RT RIC(s) in A1 policies. The Near-RT RICs obtain the SLA objectives via A1 policies from the Non-RT RIC. The Near-RT RIC can provide cell-level and/or UE-level guidance or control to the E2 nodes to achieve SLA assurance enforcement at the RAN level. The E2 nodes receive guidance or control from their respective Near-RT RICs. There are parameters as specified in GSMA GST/NEST NG.116 [22], such as the Downlink and Uplink Throughput Per Network Slice, that have both core and RAN applicability. For example, the Downlink and Uplink Throughput Per Network Slice can be used by 5GC network functions; and the Non-RT RIC can calculate maxUlThptPerSlice and maxDlThptPerSlice parameters in an A1 policy which will then be used by the Near-RT RIC as target values via monitoring E2 node performance and, where required, requesting appropriate E2 services (CONTROL and/or POLICY) to provide guidance to the E2 nodes.

### 4.3.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case
1) Non-RT RIC: a) Retrieve RAN slice SLA target from respective entities such as SMO, NSSMF. b) Long term monitoring of RAN slice performance measurements. c) Training of potential ML models that will be deployed in Non-RT RIC for slow loop optimization and/or Near-RT RIC for fast loop optimization. d) Support deployment and update of AI/ML models into Near-RT RIC. e) Receive slice control/slice SLA assurance rApps from SMO. f) Create and update A1 policies based on RAN intent and A1 feedback. g) Send A1 policies and enrichment information to Near-RT RIC to drive slice assurance. h) Send O1 reconfiguration requests to SMO for slow-loop slice assurance. 2) Near-RT RIC: a) Near-real-time monitoring of slice specific RAN performance measurements. b) Support deployment and execution of the AI/ML models from Non-RT RIC. c) Receive slice SLA assurance xApps from SMO. d) Support interpretation and execution of policies from Non-RT RIC. e) Perform optimized RAN (E2) actions to achieve RAN slice requirements based on O1 configuration, A1 policy, and E2 reports. 3) E2 node: a) Support slice assurance actions such as slice-aware resource allocation, prioritization, etc. through E2. b) Support slice specific performance measurements through O1. c) Support slice specific performance reports through E2.

### 4.3.3 Solutions

#### 4.3.3.1 RAN slice SLA assurance
The context of RAN slice SLA assurance is captured in table 4.3.3.1-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal RAN slice SLA assurance Actors and Roles SMO functions, Non-RT RIC framework, Near-RT RIC, E2 nodes All relevant functions and components are instantiated. Assumptions A1, O1, E2 interface connectivity is established. Near-RT RIC and Non-RT RIC are instantiated with A1 interface connectivity being established between them. O1 interfaces are established between SMO and Near-RT RIC, and SMO Pre-conditions and E2 nodes. RAN slice SLA assurance applications have been deployed in Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC respectively. Begins when A RAN slice is activated, or an operator defined trigger is detected. OAM functions may configure baseline slice SLA Assurance parameters in Step 1 (M) E2 node(s) through O1 interface. OAM functions collects data from E2 node through O1 interface. RAN slice SLA assurance rApp retrieves relevant information from Non-RT RIC framework, such as active RAN slices (such as active S-NSSAIs, Step 2 (M) network slice subnet instances, topology), RAN slice SLA information, NF configuration, etc. RAN slice SLA assurance rApp monitors and evaluates performance of Step 3 (M) RAN slices which may include detection of possible RAN slice SLA violation. RAN slice SLA assurance rApp decides to apply A1 policy-based RAN slice SLA assurance considering RAN slice SLA requirements and/or operator- Step 4 (M) defined RAN intents, EI from external application servers and O1 based long term trends. In addition to these input parameters, A1 feedback from Near- RT RIC, when available, can be utilized for updating existing policies. (Start of inner loop control) Step 5 (M) Near-RT RIC subscribes to a UE context information and measurement metrics via E2 interface. E2 nodes report the UE context information and E2 measurements via RIC Step 6 (M) REPORT periodically or event-triggered. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Near-RT RIC evaluates the performance data from E2 nodes (including performance data from different E2 nodes for the same UE) and finds the Step 7 (M) performance is out of slice SLA targets which are indicated in the A1 policy and/or internal Near-RT RIC slice SLA targets. Based on the UE context information, E2 measurement metrics (RIC REPORT), and A1 policy, Near-RT RIC may generate new or modify the existing E2 policies and sends them to E2 nodes. Step 8 (M) Near-RT RIC may also generate control command(s) and send them to E2 node(s) to trigger re-allocation of radio resources so that slice SLA indicators can move back to the limits outlined in the A1 policies. Step 9 (O) Near-RT RIC may send A1 policy feedback on A1 to the Non-RT RIC. Non-RT RIC decides to delete slice SLA assurance policy and sends the Step 10 (O) related message or following internal trigger, the Near-RT RIC terminates the slice SLA Assurance procedure. Ends when RAN slice(s) is deactivated or an operator defined trigger is detected. Exceptions None identified. Post Conditions SLA assurance for RAN slice(s) over a period of time is achieved. Traceability Box “Service Management and Orchestration” #gold Box “O-RAN” #lightpink ran <-> OF : <<O1>> RAN data collection metrics) end end The flow diagram of the RAN slice SLA assurance is given in figure 4.3.3.1-1.

### 4.3.4 Required data
This clause elaborates the Near-RT RIC and the E2 node capabilities necessary for implementation of the slice SLA assurance use case. The requirements are specified in clause 5.

#### 4.3.4.1 Control over E2
1) Radio resource allocation, such as configuration of slice level PRB quota or per-cell-per-slice/QoS frequency partitions. For example, based on prediction, an E2 policy or control to reconfigure slice level PRB may be generated. Another example is, based on analysis of slice level interference among cells in terms of the reliability requirement, an E2 control to reconfigure frequency partitions may be generated.
- Configuration and/or reconfiguration of slice level PRB quota (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.541 [4])
- Configuration and/or reconfiguration of per-cell-per-slice/QoS frequency partitions
Both RIC POLICY and RIC CONTROL can be used. 2) Radio access control: Depending on operator's policies, deployment scenarios, subscriber profiles, available services and SLA of slice, different criterion will be used in determining which access attempt should be allowed or blocked when congestion occurs in the system, as specified in 3GPP TS 22.261 [1]. For example, access control may be applied to restrict access of other UEs for a specific slice in order to achieve better SLA for some slice. A UE-level, or slice-level access control can be applied. Three categories of radio access control are indicated as below:
- RRC connection reject
- RRC connection release
- Access barring

#### 4.3.4.2 UE context information from E2 nodes
The followings are examples of UE context information identified as required:
- UE ID
- Slice level: S-NSSAI
- QoS level: 5QI
- UE-level RAN state information
- UE-level PM data
For example, UE ID, S-NSSAI and 5QI can be used to derive the resource occupation of each slice.

#### 4.3.4.3 Measurements from E2 nodes
The E2 measurements are necessary for inference and prediction in the Near-RT RIC as the driver for decisions in addition to KPMs. For the slice SLA assurance use case, the Near-RT RIC can translate an A1 policy (relatively static targets) into a flexible selection of controls over E2 (e.g., PRB control, access control) by taking into account the runtime status in the Near-RT RIC. Therefore, it is required to specify those measurement parameters as possible as needed over E2 interface. The examples of cell-level, UE-level, and slice-level measurement information identified as required are listed in table 4.3.4.3- below. Measurement Type Measurement Examples 1. DL/UL Total PRB usage (available at DU; as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.2.1 and 5.1.1.2.2 and in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clauses 4.5.3 and 4.5.4) 2. Distribution of DL/UL Total PRB usage (available at DU; as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.2.3 and 5.1.1.2.4 and in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clauses 4.5.10 and 4.5.11) 3. DL/UL PRB used for data traffic (available at DU; optionally split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.2.5 and 5.1.1.2.7) 4. DL/UL Total available PRB (available at DU; as specified in 3GPP TS Cell-level L2 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.2.6 and 5.1.1.2.8) 5. Average DL UE throughput in gNB (available at DU; optionally split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.3.1) 6. Distribution of DL UE throughput in gNB (available at DU; optionally split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.3.2) 7. Packet Delay (available at DU and CU-UP; optionally split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.3.3) Measurement Type Measurement Examples 8. DL/UL Cell PDCP SDU Data Volume (available at CU-UP; per PLMN ID and per QoS level (mapped 5QI) and per S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.2.1 for non-split gNB, clause 5.1.3.6.2 for split gNB; per PLMN ID and per E-RAB QoS profile (QCI, ARP and GBR), as specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clause 4.4.7) 9. Mean number of Active UEs in the DL/UL per cell (available at DU; optionally split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.23.1 and 5.1.1.23.3) 10. Max number of Active UEs in the DL/UL per cell (available at DU; optionally split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.23.2 and 5.1.1.23.4) 11. Average number of Active UEs (per QCI, as specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clause 4.4.2) 12. Packet Loss Rate (available at CU-UP or DU; optionally split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.3.1) 13. Packet Loss Rate (per QCI, as specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clause 4.4.4) 14. DL Packet Drop Rate (available at CU-UP or DU; optionally split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.3.2) 15. DL Packet Drop Rate (per QCI, as specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clause 4.4.3.2) 16. Wideband CQI distribution (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.11.1) 17. SS-RSRP distribution per SSB for serving cell (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.22.1) 18. SS-RSRP distribution per SSB for neighbor cell (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.22.1) 1. DL/UL PRB used for data traffic (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.2.5 and 5.1.1.2.7) 2. Average DL UE throughput in gNB (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.3.1) 3. Distribution of DL UE throughput in gNB (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.3.2) 4. Packet Delay (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.3.3) 5. DL/UL Cell PDCP SDU Data Volume (as specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], Slice-level L2 clause 4.4.7) 6. Mean number of Active UEs in the DL/UL per cell (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.23.1 and 5.1.1.23.3) 7. Max number of Active UEs in the DL/UL per cell (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.23.2 and 5.1.1.23.4) 8. Packet Loss Rate (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.3.1) 9. DL Packet Drop Rate (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.3.2) 1. DL/UL PRB used for data traffic (as specified in 3GPP O-RAN WG3 E2SM-KPM [36]) 2. Average DL UE throughput in gNB (as specified in 3GPP O-RAN WG3 E2SM-KPM [36]) UE-level L2 3. Distribution of DL UE throughput in gNB (as specified in 3GPP O-RAN WG3 E2SM-KPM [36]) 4. Packet Delay (as specified in 3GPP O-RAN WG3 E2SM-KPM [36]) 5. DL/UL Cell PDCP SDU Data Volume (as specified in 3GPP O-RAN WG3 E2SM-KPM [36]) Measurement Type Measurement Examples 6. Mean number of Active UEs in the DL/UL per cell (as specified in 3GPP O-RAN WG3 E2SM-KPM [36]) 7. Max number of Active UEs in the DL/UL per cell (as specified in 3GPP O- RAN WG3 E2SM-KPM [36]) 8. Packet Loss Rate (as specified in 3GPP O-RAN WG3 E2SM-KPM [36]) 9. DL Packet Drop Rate (as specified in 3GPP O-RAN WG3 E2SM-KPM [36]) 10. DRB-specific RLC buffer occupancy (as specified in 3GPP O-RAN WG3 E2SM-RC [37]) 11. Serving cell and neighbor cell RRC measurements (as specified in 3GPP O-RAN WG3 E2SM-RC [37]) 12. Number of DRBs and PDU sessions (as specified in 3GPP O-RAN WG3 E2SM-RC [37]) 13. Number of QoS flows and QoS parameters of QoS flows mapped to each DRB (as specified in 3GPP O-RAN WG3 E2SM-RC [37]) 14. Number of HARQ TBs with specific MCS rates (as specified in 3GPP O- RAN WG3 E2SM-KPM [36]) 15. CQI (as specified in 3GPP O-RAN WG3 E2SM-KPM [36]) 16. Serving cell and neighbor cell RSRP (as specified in 3GPP O-RAN WG3 E2SM-KPM [36])

## 4.4 Massive MIMO optimization

### 4.4.1 Background and goal of the use case
Please refer to [i.2] and [32].

### 4.4.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case
> NOTE: The AI/ML model training, deployment, and inference described below cannot be applicable for some mMIMO
optimization features. 1) SMO/Non-RT RIC:
- Retrieve necessary performance indicators, measurement reports and RAN configurations from E2 nodes via the O1
interface for the purpose of AI/ML model training and performance monitoring.
- E.g., the number of supported Non-GoB BF modes in O-DU.
- Collect enrichment information from application servers and associate enrichment information with collected
measurements and configurations.
- Perform AI/ML model training and deployment.
- Perform AI/ML model performance monitoring and re-training.
- Send enrichment information to the Near-RT RIC for inference via the A1 interface.
> NOTE: The requirements of SMO/Non-RT RIC are under the scope of WG2.
2) Near-RT RIC:
- Support AI/ML model deployment from the Non-RT RIC via the O1/O2 interface.
- Subscribe and retrieve necessary performance and failure indicators, measurement reports, UE context information
and RAN configurations from E2 nodes via the E2 interface for the purpose of mMIMO optimization.
- Retrieve enrichment information from Non-RT RIC via the A1 interface, and associate enrichment information with
collected measurements and configurations.
- Perform AI/ML model training and inference.
- Perform AI/ML model performance monitoring and re-training.
- Send control or policy message for massive MIMO optimization to E2 nodes via the E2 interface.
3) E2 nodes:
- Support reporting of necessary performance indicators, measurement reports, UE context information and RAN
configurations with required granularity to SMO/Non-RT RIC via the O1 interface.
- Support reporting of necessary performance and failure indicators, measurement reports, UE context information
collection and RAN configurations with required granularity to Near-RT RIC via the E2 interface.
- Execute control/policy message received from the Near-RT RIC via the E2 interface.

### 4.4.3 Solutions

#### 4.4.3.1 AI/ML-assisted Non-Grid-of-Beams beamforming optimization

##### 4.4.3.1.1 Model training in Non-RT RIC
> NOTE: The below table 4.4.3.1.1-1 and figure 4.4.3.1.1-1 are under the scope of WG2.
The context of AI/ML-assisted Non-GoB BF mode selection in Non-RT RIC – model training, deployment, and update is captured in table 4.4.3.1.1-1. and update <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use To train an AI/ML model to select the best Non-GoB BF modes given Goal wireless conditions and RAN configuration. Actors and Roles SMO, Non-RT RIC, Near-RT RIC, O-DU, Application server
- All relevant functions and components are instantiated.
Assumptions
- O1 interface connectivity is established.
- O1 interface is established between SMO and O-DU to enable
SMO/Non-RT RIC to obtain the number of supported Non-GoB BF modes and to collect performance measurement data and associated Pre-conditions RAN configurations.
- A1 interface is established between Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC to
enable enrichment information transfer.
- O-DU supports Non-GoB BF.
Begins when Operator specified trigger condition or event is satisfied. SMO requests the number of supported Non-GoB BF modes in O-DU via Step 1 (M) the O1 interface. SMO collects the number of supported Non-GoB BF modes in O-DU via Step 2 (M) the O1 interface. Step 3 (M) Non-RT RIC retrieves collected information. For each Non-GoB BF mode, SMO requests performance measurement Step 4 (M) data and associated RAN configurations from O-DU for model training via the O1 interface. SMO collects required performance measurement data and RAN Step 5 (M) configurations from O-DU via the O1 interface. SMO collects enrichment information (e.g., UE mobility and location info.) Step 6 (M) from application server. Step 7 (M) Non-RT RIC retrieves collected data and enrichment information. For each Non-GoB BF mode, Non-RT RIC associates received enrichment Step 8 (M) information with measurement data and RAN configurations. Step 9 (M) Non-RT RIC performs model training. Non-RT RIC deploys trained model to the Near-RT RIC via O1 or O2 Step 10 (M) interface. For each Non-GoB BF mode, SMO requests performance measurement Step 11 (M) data from O-DU for performance monitoring via the O1 interface. For each Non-GoB BF mode, SMO collects performance measurement Step 12 (M) data from O-DU for performance monitoring via the O1 interface. SMO collects enrichment information (e.g., UE mobility and location info.) Step 13 (M) from application server. Non-RT RIC retrieves collected performance monitoring data and Step 14 (M) enrichment information. Step 15 (M) Non-RT RIC evaluates the performance of deployed AI/ML model. Step 16 (M) Non-RT RIC re-trains the model. Step 17 (M) Non-RT RIC updates model in the Near-RT RIC via O1 or O2 interface. Ends when Operator specified trigger condition or event is satisfied. Exceptions None identified. Near-RT RIC executes the deployed model for AI/ML-assisted Non-GoB Post Conditions BF. REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN1, REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN4, REQ-Non-RT-RIC- Traceability FUN5, REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN9, REQ-A1-FUN2, REQ-Near-RT-RIC-MM-FUN2 Box “Service Management and Orchestration” #gold Box “O-RAN” #lightpink Box “External” #lightcyan end end end The flow diagram of the AI/ML model training in Non-RT RIC, deployment, and performance monitoring is given in figure 4.4.3.1.1-1.

##### 4.4.3.1.2 Model training in Near-RT RIC
The context of AI/ML-assisted Non-GoB BF mode selection – model training in Near-RT RIC, deployment, and update is captured in table 4.4.3.1.2-1. and update <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use To train an AI/ML model to select the best Non-GoB BF modes given Goal wireless conditions and RAN configuration. Actors and Roles SMO, Non-RT RIC, Near-RT RIC, O-DU, Application server Assumptions - All relevant functions and components are instantiated.
- A1 interface is established between Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC to
enable enrichment information transfer. Pre-conditions
- O-DU supports Non-GoB BF.
- E2 interface is established between Near-RT RIC and O-DU.
Begins when Operator specified trigger condition or event is satisfied. Near-RT RIC requests the number of supported Non-GoB BF modes in O- Step 1 (M) DU via the E2 interface. Near-RT RIC collects the number of supported Non-GoB BF modes in O- Step 2 (M) DU via the E2 interface. For each Non-GoB BF mode, Near-RT RIC requests performance Step 3 (M) measurement data and associated RAN configurations from O-DU for model training via the E2 interface. Near-RT RIC collects required performance measurement data and RAN Step 4 (M) configurations from O-DU via the E2 interface. Near-RT RIC collects enrichment information (e.g., UE mobility and Step 5 (M) location info) from Non-RT RIC via the A1 interface. For each Non-GoB BF mode, Near-RT RIC associates received Step 6 (M) enrichment information with measurement data and RAN configurations. Step 7 (M) Near-RT RIC performs model training. For each Non-GoB BF mode, Near-RT RIC requests performance Step 8 (M) measurement data from O-DU for performance monitoring/training updates via the E2 interface. For each Non-GoB BF mode, Near-RT RIC collects performance Step 9 (M) measurement data from O-DU for performance monitoring/training updates via the E2 interface. Near-RT RIC collects enrichment information (e.g., UE mobility and Step 10 (M) location info) from Non-RT RIC via the A1 interface. Step 11 (M) Near-RT RIC evaluates the performance of deployed AI/ML model. Step 12 (M) Near-RT RIC re-trains the model. Ends when Operator specified trigger condition or event is satisfied. Exceptions None identified. Near-RT RIC executes the deployed model for AI/ML-assisted Non-GoB Post Conditions BF. REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN9, REQ-A1-FUN3, REQ-Near-RT-RIC-MM-FUN1, REQ-Near-RT-RIC-MM-FUN3, REQ-E2-MM-FUN2, REQ-E2-MM-FUN3, Traceability REQ-E2-MM-FUN5, REQ-E2-MM-FUN6, REQ-E2-MM-FUN9, REQ-E2- MM-FUN10 Box “Service Management and Orchestration” #gold Box “O-RAN” #lightpink Box “External” #lightcyan mode mode end end mode end The flow diagram of the AI/ML model training in Near-RT RIC, deployment, and performance monitoring is given in figure 4.4.3.1.2-1.

##### 4.4.3.1.3 Model inference
The context of AI/ML-assisted Non-GoB BF mode selection – model inference is captured in table 4.4.3.1.3-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal To generate Non-GoB control/policy message. Actors and Roles SMO, Non-RT RIC, Near-RT RIC, O-DU, Application server
- All relevant functions and components are instantiated.
Assumptions
- A1 and E2 interface connectivity are established.
- A1 interface is established between Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC to
enable enrichment information transfer. Pre-conditions - E2 interface is established between Near-RT RIC and O-DU to enable Non-GoB BF mode selection via E2 control/policy message.
- O-DU supports Non-GoB BF.
Begins when Operator specified trigger condition or event is satisfied. SMO collects enrichment information (e.g., UE mobility/location info) from Step 1 (M) application server. Step 2 (M) Non-RT RIC retrieves collected enrichment information. Non-RT RIC sends collected enrichment information to the Near-RT RIC Step 3 (M) via the A1 interface. Near-RT RIC requests measurement data and UE context information Step 4 (M) (e.g., SRS periodicity) from O-DU via the E2 interface. Near-RT RIC collects measurement data and UE context information (e.g., Step 5 (M) SRS periodicity) from O-DU via the E2 interface. Near-RT RIC associates received enrichment information with collected Step 6 (M) measurement data and UE context information. Step 7 (M) Near-RT RIC performs model inference. Near-RT RIC generates Non-GoB control/policy message based on Step 8 (M) inferred Non-GoB BF mode selection. Near-RT RIC sends Non-GoB control/policy message to O-DU via the E2 Step 9 (M) interface. Ends when Operator specified trigger condition or event is satisfied. Exceptions None identified. Non-RT RIC monitors the performance of AI/ML-assisted Non-GoB BF Post Conditions mode selection in the Near-RT RIC. REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN9, REQ-A1-FUN3, REQ-Near-RT-RIC-MM-FUN2, REQ-Near-RT-RIC-MM-FUN3, Traceability REQ-E2-MM-FUN2, REQ-E2-MM-FUN3, REQ-E2-MM-FUN5, REQ-E2-MM-FUN6 Box “Service Management and Orchestration” #gold Box “O-RAN” #lightpink Box “External” #lightcyan periodicity) periodicity) configurations end The flow diagram of the AI/ML inference is given in figure 4.4.3.1.3-1.

#### 4.4.3.2 Beam-based Mobility Robustness Optimization (bMRO)
Beam-based Mobility Robustness Optimization (bMRO) is an autonomous self-optimizing algorithm that improves beam-based inter-cell mobility performance by applying beam-specific HO parameters including Cell Individual Offsets (CIO), Time to Trigger (TTT), T310 counter, etc. on the handover configuration between neighbor cells, based on the analysis of beam-specific mobility-related counters and/or mobility failure events. bMRO is capable to reduce the number of unnecessary handovers, handover failures as well as ping-pong handovers particularly in cells that cover areas with different mobility characteristics. Performance, complexity and gain analysis has been provided in O-RAN.WG1.mMIMO-Use-Cases-TR-v01.00 [i.2], clause 3.3. Signaling overhead and complexity (RRC re-configuration, mobility reporting and O-CU reconfiguration messages) can be further reduced by beam grouping in which case beams with similar mobility characteristics comprise a beam group (e.g., group 1: low mobility pedestrian area, group 2: high mobility street). Mobility reports consist of aggregated mobility KPI/PMs (e.g., number of too early HOs, number of too late HOs, number of HO to wrong cell) or individual failure reports with root cause (e.g., to early HO, too late HO, HO to wrong cell) or a combination of the two. Reports are sent per each SSB beam or SSB beam based optimization (besides beam or beam group specific reporting). While aggregated mobility KPIs/PMs are used for slow adaptations (e.g., 5 min), individual failure reports are used for faster adaptations (e.g., 100 ms) or for AI/ML based analysis of failure patterns. Measurement reporting periodicity and measurement type are configurable on a per cell basis considering the tradeoff between gain in mobility performance and associated signaling overhead. Mobility KPIs and failure events are forwarded from the O-CU to the Near-RT RIC, and the Near-RT RIC configures the CIO and the measurement reporting in the O-CUs. CIOs might be beam- or beam group-based and can also be configurable per UE group (e.g., UE type, UE mobility or UE mode such as energy saving mode). While AI/ML based approaches are not mandated, AI/ML methods/models can be used i) to build beam groups, to ii) decide on cell individual measurement configuration, to iii) detect changes in mobility characteristics (e.g., traffic jam) that trigger optimization, to iv) group UEs in UE groups as well as v) for the bMRO optimization algorithm itself to calculate the optimal cell individual offsets. In case of dynamic beam pattern optimization, relevant mMIMO beam pattern information shall be available at the Near-RT RIC, e.g., mobility reports might indicate a specific beam pattern. The context of Near-RT RIC beam-based mobility robustness optimization – model training and beam grouping is captured in table 4.4.3.2-1. grouping <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use To obtain beam pattern optimization in case of Grid-of-Beam optimization, Goal to train the ML models and to decide on the beam grouping. Actors and Roles SMO, Near-RT RIC, E2 node (O-CU)
- All relevant functions and components are instantiated.
Assumptions
- O1 and E2 interface connectivity are established.
- Network is operational with default configuration.
- (optional) OAM functions have configured bMRO targets in Near-RT
RIC through O1 interface.
- OAM functions have configured baseline mobility parameters in O-CUs
Pre-conditions through O1 interface.
- O-CUs support reporting of beam-based mobility performance and/or
instantaneous mobility failure event reporting.
- Near-RT RIC has access to the beam-based mobility performance
and/or failure reporting from the E2 node. Begins when Operator specified trigger condition or event is satisfied. OAM provides ML model to the Near-RT RIC via O1 or O2 interface (e.g., to perform beam grouping, to identify a change in mobility characteristics, Step 1 (M) to derive optimized mobility reporting configuration and/or to calculate the optimized mobility settings). Near-RT RIC subscribes to cell change configuration reports from E2 node Step 2 (M) (O-CU) to obtain mMIMO beam pattern information. Near-RT RIC obtains cell change configuration reports from E2 node (O- Step 3 (M) CU) including mMIMO beam pattern information. Near-RT RIC subscribes to beam based mobility performance and failure Step 4 (M) reporting via E2 interface. Near-RT RIC obtains to beam based mobility performance and failure Step 5 (M) reporting via E2 interface. Step 6 (M) Near-RT RIC performs model training. Near-RT RIC obtains to beam based mobility performance and failure Step 7 (M) reporting via E2 interface. Near-RT RIC performs AI/ML based beam grouping algorithm to group Step 8 (M) beams with similar mobility characteristics based on received mobility reports. Near-RT RIC generates beam grouping policy message and send policy Step 9 (M) message to O-CUs via E2 interfaces. Exceptions None identified. Post Conditions None identified. REQ-Near-RT-RIC-TS-FUN1, REQ-Near-RT-RIC-TS-FUN2, REQ-E2-MM-FUN1, Traceability REQ-E2-MM-FUN4, REQ-E2-MM-FUN5, REQ-E2-MM-FUN7, REQ-E2-MM-FUN8 Autonumber Box “SMO” #gold Box “O-RAN” #lightpink Hnote over NearRTRIC mMIMO Beam Pattern Information is available Endhnote end end The flow diagram of the procedure for Near-RT RIC beam-based mobility robustness optimization – model training and initial beam grouping is given in figure 4.4.3.2-1. and initial beam grouping The context of Near-RT RIC beam-based mobility robustness optimization – model inference and mobility optimization is captured in table 4.4.3.2-2. optimization <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Based on evaluation of mobility performance and failure reporting, identify changes in mobility characteristics and derive optimized mobility settings Goal such as CIO, TTT, T310, etc. to optimize beam-based mobility performance between neighbor cells. Actors and Roles SMO, Near-RT RIC, E2 node (O-CU)
- All relevant functions and components are instantiated.
Assumptions - O1 and E2 interface connectivity are established.
- ML models are trained, and beam groups are defined.
- Network is operational with default configuration.
- (optional) OAM functions have configured bMRO targets in Near-RT
RIC through O1 interface.
- OAM functions have configured baseline mobility parameters in O-CUs
through O1 interface. Pre-conditions
- Near-RT RIC has up-to-date beam pattern information.
- O-CUs support reporting of beam-based mobility performance and/or
instantaneous mobility failure event reporting.
- Near-RT RIC has access to the beam-based mobility performance
and/or failure reporting from the E2 node. Begins when Operator specified trigger condition or event is satisfied. Near-RT RIC subscribes to beam- or beam-group based mobility Step 1 (M) performance and/or failure reporting via E2 interface for mobility optimization. Near-RT RIC subscribes to cell configuration reports via E2 interface to Step 2 (M) get informed about mMIMO beam pattern changes. SMO may trigger mobility optimization by configuration of a new GoB beam pattern in the E2 node (O-CU). Near-RT RIC obtains the cell configuration from E2 node via E2 interface and detects a mMIMO beam Step 3,4,5,6,7 (M) pattern change. Based on obtained mobility reports from E2 nodes, AI/ML model inference in the Near-RT RIC derives an updated beam grouping. Near-RT RIC requests to apply an updated beam grouping policy at E2 node (O-CU). Alternatively, OAM may trigger mobility optimization by operator specified Step 8 (M) trigger or a new optimization target. Near-RT RIC obtains to beam- or beam-group based mobility performance Step 9 (M) and failure reporting via E2 interface for mobility optimization. Near-RT RIC performs AI/ML based mobility report analysis to detect a Step 10 (M) change in mobility characteristics and to trigger reconfiguration of mobility reporting and mobility parameter settings. Near-RT RIC subscribes to updated beam- or beam-group based mobility Step 11 (M) performance and failure reporting via E2 interface. Near-RT RIC obtains to beam-or beam-group based mobility performance Step 12 (M) and failure reporting via E2 interface. Near-RT RIC performs mobility robustness optimization to update mobility Step 13 (M) parameter settings. Near-RT RIC requests to apply an updated beam- or beam-group based Step 14 (M) mobility parameter policy (e.g., CIO, TTT, T310, etc.) at E2 node (O-CU). Ends when Operator specified trigger condition or event is satisfied. Exceptions None identified. Near-RT RIC monitors the performance of mobility robustness optimization Post Conditions in the Near-RT RIC and initiates ML model retraining if required. REQ-Near-RT-RIC-TS-FUN1, REQ-Near-RT-RIC-TS-FUN2, REQ-Near-RT-RIC-TS-FUN3, REQ-E2-MM-FUN1, Traceability REQ-E2-MM-FUN4, REQ-E2-MM-FUN5, REQ-E2-MM-FUN7, REQ-E2-MM-FUN8 Autonumber Box “SMO” #gold Box “O-RAN” #lightpink Hnote over NearRTRIC mMIMO Beam Pattern Change Endhnote end end Hnote over NearRTRIC Change in mobility characteristics Endhnote Hnote over NearRTRIC Update mobility parameters Endhnote end end end The flow diagram of the procedure for Near-RT RIC beam-based mobility robustness optimization – optimization trigger, model inference and mobility optimization is given in figure 4.4.3.2-2. trigger, model inference and mobility optimization

#### 4.4.3.3 MU-MIMO optimization
The context of MU-MIMO optimization is captured in table 4.4.3.3-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal MU-MIMO optimization using Near-RT RIC control loop. Near-RT RIC: Configures E2 nodes’ measurements, collects data from E2 nodes, performs MU-MIMO optimization function, and sends MIMO Actors and Roles information to E2 nodes. E2 nodes: Report measurements to Near-RT RIC and execute received MU-MIMO information. E2 connectivity is established between Near-RT RIC and E2 nodes. Assumptions Network is operational. All relevant functions and components are instantiated. MU-MIMO Pre-conditions optimization xApp is deployed with initial configuration. All relevant subscriptions established on E2 interface. Begins when Operator specified trigger condition or event is satisfied. Near-RT RIC requests cell and UE capabilities and configuration Step 1 (M) information from E2 node (O-CU). Near-RT RIC obtains cell and UE capabilities and configuration Step 2 (M) information from E2 node (O-CU). Near-RT RIC requests UE connections and RRC states information from Step 3 (M) E2 node (O-CU). Near-RT RIC obtains UE connections and RRC states information from Step 4 (M) E2 node (O-CU). Near-RT RIC requests reference signals and resource allocation Step 5 (M) information from E2 node (O-DU). Near-RT RIC obtains reference signals and resource allocation Step 6 (M) information from E2 node (O-DU). Near-RT RIC requests channel measurement and reporting Step 7 (M) configuration information from E2 node (O-DU). Near-RT RIC obtains channel measurement and reporting configuration Step 8 (M) information from E2 node (O-DU). Step 9 (O) Near-RT RIC may configure reference signals. Step 10 (O) Near-RT RIC may configure channel measurement and reporting. Near-RT RIC requests served radio bearers configuration information Step 11 (M) from E2 node (O-CU). Near-RT RIC requests traffic and channel information from E2 nodes Step 12 (M) (O-CU, O-DU). (Start of outer loop control) Step 13 (M) Near-RT RIC obtains UE connections and RRC states update from E2 node (O-CU). Near-RT RIC obtains reference signals and resource allocation update Step 14 (M) from E2 node (O-CU). Near-RT RIC obtains channel measurement and reporting configuration Step 15 (M) update from E2 Node (O-CU) Near-RT RIC obtains DRB/SRB configuration information from E2 node Step 16 (M) (O-CU). Near-RT RIC coordinates scheduling control of active DRB/SRB with E2 Step 17 (O) node (O-DU). (Start of inner loop control) Step 18 (M) Near-RT RIC obtains traffic and channel information from E2 nodes (O- CU, O-DU). Near-RT RIC uses the collected information to estimate channels and Step 19 (M) select UE groupings per ranges of frequency and time resources. Near-RT RIC calculates scheduling and MIMO parameters (MCS and Step 20 (M) precoding coefficients for each selection of UEs). <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Near-RT RIC sends scheduling and optimized MIMO parameters per slot per UE to E2 node (O-DU). Step 21 (M) Steps 18 to Step 21 may repeat. (End of inner loop control) E2 node (O-DU) schedules transmissions using the parameters Step 22 (M) received from the Near-RT RIC. Near-RT RIC sends updated reference signals configuration to E2 node Step 23 (O) (O-DU). Near-RT RIC sends updated DL channel measurement and reporting configuration to E2 node (O-DU). Step 24 (O) Step 13 to Step 24 may repeat. (End of outer loop control) Ends when MU-MIMO optimization is deactivated. Exceptions None identified. Post Conditions The E2 nodes operate using the newly received parameters. REQ-E2-MM-FUN1, REQ-E2-MM-FUN2, REQ-E2-MM-FUN5, REQ-E2-MM-FUN11, Traceability REQ-E2-MM-FUN12, REQ-E2-MM-FUN13, REQ-E2-MM-FUN14, REQ-E2-MM-FUN15 skin rose Autonumber Box “O-RAN” #lightpink information end end end end end@enduml The flow diagram of the MU-MIMO optimization is given in figure 4.4.3.3-1.

#### 4.4.3.4 AI/ML based CSI-RS and DMRS configuration optimization
This sub-use-case deals with GoB-based massive MIMO transmission (where the sender transmits reference signals for a grid of beams to the receiver), primarily used in FDD systems. Based on the relevant configuration by O-CU-CP, the O-DU periodically transmits the channel state information – Reference Signal (CSI-RS) via one or multiple beams per SSB beam that enables UEs to perform channel measurements, estimate the CSI and report the CSI in the uplink to the O-DU, that further enables the O-DU to choose the appropriate UE-specific beamforming weights (for transmission in the downlink). This is unlike the non-GoB-based massive MIMO transmission used primarily in TDD systems, which do not involve CSI-based beamforming, but which involve periodic Sounding Reference Signals (SRS) transmission in the uplink by the UE to the O-DU for determining the appropriate UE-specific beamforming weights based on channel reciprocity. Hence, GoB-based massive MIMO transmissions incur a higher overhead due to periodic transmission of CSI-feedback from the UE towards enabling the selection of optimal beamforming weights for the UE. Furthermore, based on the relevant configuration by O-CU-CP, the O-DU transmits the Demodulation Reference Signal (DMRS) to each UE that enables the UE to determine the UE-specific beamforming weights to decode the PDSCH (for reception in the downlink), containing the multiplexed MIMO layer data transmissions. The configuration of DMRS plays an important role on the performance of the network, e.g., for a fast-fading channel, an additional DMRS symbol can be provided per slot trading off higher overhead; for higher traffic-load, configuration type 2 can be used trading off frequency domain density; for low-latency KPI requirements, mapping type B can be used, etc. In this context, the sub-use-case describes a method to: 1) if necessary, update/modify the configuration of CSI-RS transmission (i.e., number of ports, port allocation over REs in a RB, transmission periodicity, transmission density/number of CSI-RS signal per RB, CSI-RS port to physical antenna port mapping/beamforming weights, number of CSI-RS beams per SS beam, etc.) and configuration of CSI-feedback (i.e., sub-band size, etc.) at non-real time (e.g., every 1 hr) based on the distribution of UE channel and traffic load. 2) if necessary, update/modify UE-specific beams indexes (e.g., PMIs when PMI-based beam management is enabled, P2 beamforming-weights/beam-indexes when P1-P2-based beam management is enabled, etc.) for a sequence of slots (i.e., at near-real time) based on the CSI-feedback received from UEs, etc. 3) if necessary, update/modify the configuration of DMRS (i.e., number of OFDM symbols carrying DMRS ports per slot, configuration type, etc.) for a sequence of slots (i.e., at near-real time) based on the relevant RAN state information such as CSI-feedback received from UEs, traffic load, etc. Towards achieving the goal, this sub-use-case utilizes the Near-Real-Time RAN Intelligent Controller (Near-RT RIC) and the Service Management Orchestration (SMO)/Non-Real-Time RAN Intelligent Controller (Non-RT RIC) framework of O-RAN ecosystem. The SMO/Non-RT RIC framework shall update/modify the configurations of CSI-RS transmissions and CSI-feedback reporting at the E2 nodes (e.g., O-DU). The Near-RT RIC shall update/modify the UE-specific GoB-based beams and the DMRS configurations at the E2 nodes (e.g., O-DU) for a sequence of slots. Specifically,
- the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework shall train AI/ML models to solve a joint two-stage optimization problem. In the
first stage, the configurations of CSI-RS transmission and CSI-feedback reporting are optimized for each cell. In the second stage, the GoB-based UE-specific beams and the configuration of DMRS are optimized for each cell.
- When the training is completed, the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework shall deploy the AI/ML model trained to optimize
GoB-based UE-specific beams and DMRS configurations to the Near-RT RIC.
- After that, based on the network dynamics, the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework shall update/modify the configurations
of CSI-RS transmissions and CSI-feedback reporting at the E2 nodes (e.g., O-DU).
- Based on the network dynamics and the trained AI/ML model received from the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework, the
Near-RT RIC shall update/modify the UE-specific GoB-based beams and the DMRS configurations at the E2 nodes (e.g., O-DU) for a sequence of slots. The goal of the optimization is to maximize the target KPIs under the constraints of configuration choices of CSI-RS transmission, CSI-feedback reporting, GoB-based UE-specific beams and DMRS transmission. The AI/ML models can exploit the relations of the channel properties and traffic load with the configuration parameters of CSI- RS and DMRS (e.g., relations between doppler-spread and time-domain properties, delay-spread and frequency-domain properties, angular spread and beam directions/indexes, traffic-load and number of ports, etc.) towards maximizing the target KPIs.

##### 4.4.3.4.1 Entities/resources involved in the use case
1) SMO/Non-RT RIC framework: a) Collect the necessary Configuration (CM) parameters, Performance Measurements (PM), Key Performance Indicators (KPI), and measurement report traces from the E2 nodes (O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU, O-eNB) via O1 interface. b) Collect the necessary UE-level observation and measurement data from the Near-RT RIC via O1 interface. c) Allow the rApp to receive the CMs, PMs, KPIs measurement data (collected via O1) to perform the AI/ML model training towards jointly optimizing i) the configurations of CSI-RS transmission (i.e., number of ports, port allocation over REs in a RB, transmission periodicity, transmission density/number of CSI-RS signal per RB, CSI-RS port to physical antenna port mapping/beamforming weights, etc.) and CSI-feedback reporting (i.e., sub-band size, etc.) which shall be updated/modified in non-real-time and ii) the UE-specific GoB-based beams (i.e., P2 beamforming- weights/beam-indexes when P1-P2-based beam management is enabled, PMI/PMI-RI/PMI-RI-LI when PMI-based beam management is enabled, etc.) and the configurations of DMRS (i.e., configuration type, mapping type, number of symbols carrying DMRS ports per slot, etc.) which shall be updated/modified in near-real-time. d) Receive the inferred configurations of CSI-RS transmissions and CSI-feedback reporting from the rApp via R1 interface. e) Write/update the optimized configurations of CSI-RS transmissions and CSI-feedback reporting via O1 interface to E2 nodes. f) Deploy the trained AI/ML model via O1/O2 interface and/or the enrichment information via A1 interface to the Near- RT RIC to update/modify the UE-specific GoB-based beams and DMRS configurations in near-real-time.
> NOTE: The requirements of SMO/Non-RT RIC framework are under the scope of WG2.
2) rApps: a) Retrieve the necessary Configuration (CM) parameters, Performance Measurements (PM), Key Performance Indicators (KPI), and measurement report traces pertaining to the E2 nodes and O-RU from the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework via R1 to train AI/ML model. b) Train AI/ML model to jointly optimize i) the configurations of CSI-RS transmission and CSI-feedback reporting which shall be updated/modified in non-real-time and ii) the UE-specific GoB-based beams and the DMRS configurations which shall be updated/modified in near-real-time. c) Infer the configurations of CSI-RS transmission and CSI-feedback reporting and write/update the inferred configuration to the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework via R1. d) Write/update the AI/ML model trained to optimize the UE-specific GoB-based beams and the DMRS configurations to the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework via R1. e) Monitor the performance of the respective cells. Upon KPI degradation, initiate rollback to the previous version of the AI/ML model, if any, and/or trigger the AI/ML model retraining. f) Execute the inference/control loop periodically or on an event-triggered based.
> NOTE: The requirements of rApps are under the scope of WG2.
3) Near-RT RIC: a) Subscribe and retrieve DL L1 measurements reported by individual UE such as CSI-feedback containing PMI (in the case of closed-loop MIMO transmission mode) or partial channel feedback (in the case of open-loop MIMO transmission mode, which is available as channel matrix, or its corresponding Eigen vectors of the wireless channel between the E2 node and the UE) over the E2 interface from the E2 nodes. b) Process, aggregate and report the UE-level data over O1 interface to the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework. c) Retrieve AI/ML model via O1/O2 interface and/or enrichment information via A1 interface from the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework and associate them with collected information over E2 interface (such as, CSI-feedback, etc.) towards inferring the slot-specific GoB-based beams/PMIs per UE and slot-specific DMRS configurations. d) Write/update the per-UE slot-specific GoB-based beams/PMIs and slot-specific DMRS configurations for a sequence of slots via E2 interface (to O-DU). e) Execute the inference/control loop periodically or on an event-triggered based. 4) E2 nodes: a) Report the desired performance measurements and KPIs, configuration parameters and CM changes, trace reports and measurements to the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework via the O1 interface. b) Report the DL L1 measurements reported by individual UE (such as, CSI-feedback, etc.) to the Near-RT RIC via the E2 interface. c) Receive the optimized CSI-RS transmission and CSI-feedback reporting configurations from the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework via O1 interface and apply the configuration on the O-DU which may further exercise the configuration update on the O-RU. d) Receive the per-UE slot-specific GoB-based beams/PMIs and slot-specific DMRS configurations for a sequence of slots from the Near-RT RIC via the E2 interface and apply the configuration on the O-DU which may further exercise the configuration update on the O-RU accordingly.

##### 4.4.3.4.2 Solutions
The context of AI/ML based CSI-RS and DMRS configuration optimization is captured in table 4.4.3.4.2-1. Steps Details Goal Optimizes the configuration parameters of CSI-RS and DMRS
- SMO/Non-RT RIC framework: Collects performance data and training data, allows rApp to access
the data, receives trained AI/ML model from rApp and deploys the trained model to Near-RT RIC, receives inferred configurations of CSI-RS transmission and CSI-feedback reporting from rApp and writes/updates the inferred configurations to E2 nodes.
- rApp: Trains AI/ML model to jointly optimize i) the configurations of CSI-RS transmission and CSI-
feedback reporting which shall be updated/modified in non-real-time and ii) the UE-specific GoB- based beams and the DMRS configurations which shall be updated/modified in near-real-time. Actors and Roles Infers the configurations of CSI-RS transmission and CSI-feedback reporting.
- Near-RT RIC: Infers per-UE slot-specific GoB-based beams/PMIs and slot-specific DMRS
configurations for a sequence of slots.
- E2 nodes and O-RU: Updates CSI-RS transmission and CSI-feedback reporting parameters as
per the recommendation received from the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework. Updates UE-specific GoB beamforming weights and DMRS configurations as per the recommendation received from the Near-RT RIC.
- All relevant functions and components are instantiated.
Assumptions - A1, O1 and E2 interface connectivity is established.
- A1 policy scope defined.
- Network is operational with default configuration.
- SMO/Non-RT RIC framework have configured a baseline measurement configuration and the rApp
has access to this data. Pre-conditions - Near-RT RIC has access to the necessary data related to DL L1 measurements reported by UEs such as CSI-Feedback containing PMI/RI/LI, CSI-RSRP, CSI-SINR, etc. from the E2 node.
- SMO/Non-RT RIC framework analyzes the historical data from RAN for training the relevant AI/ML
models to be deployed or updated in the Near-RT RIC, as well as AI/ML models required for non- real-time optimization of configurations. SMO/Non-RT RIC framework and/or Near-RT RIC perform data evaluation, determine that CSI-RS and Begins when DMRS optimization is required to be initiated or updated and establishes target(s). (Start of outer loop control) Step 1-2 (M) SMO/Non-RT RIC framework collects the necessary configurations, performance indicators, and measurement reports from E2 nodes and O-RUs via O1 interface. Steps Details Near-RT RIC collects DL L1 measurements reported by individual UE such as PMI, RI, LI, CQI, CSI- Step 3 (M) RSRP, CSI-SINR, SS-RSRP, etc. and DL L1, L2 information such as traffic load of individual UE from E2 node periodically or event-triggered. Near RT RIC processes, aggregates and reports the UE-level data over O1 interface to the SMO/Non- Step 4-5 (M) RT RIC framework. Step 6 (M) SMO/Non-RT RIC framework collects the target KPIs data. Step 7 (M) SMO/Non-RT RIC framework pre-processes the data to feed into the rApp. Step 8-9 (M) rApp trains AI/ML model. SMO/Non-RT RIC framework deploys the trained AI/ML model to Near-RT RIC via O1/O2 interface and Step 10-12 (M) sends optional A1 enrichment information such as the history of UE-specific GoB-based beams/PMIs. (Start of inner loop control) Step 13-14 (M) SMO/Non-RT RIC framework collects observation, measurement data from E2 nodes and feeds the data to rApps. Step 15-16 (M) rApp infers the configurations of CSI-RS transmission and CSI-feedback reporting and writes/updates the inferred configurations to SMO/Non-RT RIC framework. Step 17-18 (M) SMO/Non-RT RIC framework writes/updates the configurations of CSI-RS transmission and CSI- feedback reporting at E2 nodes which further exercise the configuration update on the O-RU. E2 nodes report the DL L1 measurements reported by individual UE such as PMI, RI, LI, CQI, CSI- RSRP, CSI-SINR, SS-RSRP, etc. and DL L1, L2 information such as traffic load of individual UE to Step 19-20 (M) Near-RT RIC. By associating the measurement data received from E2 nodes with the trained AI/ML model received from SMO/Non-RT RIC framework, Near-RT RIC infers the per-UE slot-specific GoB- based beams/PMIs and slot-specific DMRS configurations. Near-RT RIC writes/updates the per-UE slot-specific GoB-based beams/PMIs and slot-specific DMRS configurations for a sequence of slots to E2 nodes via E2 interface. Step 21-22 (M) Step 12 to Step 21 may repeat. (End of inner loop control) rApps continuously monitors KPIs in respective cells. In case of unsatisfactory performance, it initiates fallback and requests AI/ML model retraining/update. Then, rApp retrains/updates the respective AI/ML Step 23-30 (M) model(s). Step 1 to Step 29 may repeat. (End of outer loop control) Non-RT RIC decides to delete the CSI-RS and DMRS optimization AI/ML model and sends the related Ends when message or following internal trigger, the Near-RT RIC terminates the UE-specific beams/PMIs and DMRS optimization procedure. Exceptions None. Non-RT RIC continues to collect and monitor the CSI-RS and DMRS optimization related Post Conditions measurement data from E2 node. REQ-Near-RT-RIC-MM-FUN1, Traceability REQ-Near-RT-RIC-MM-FUN2, Steps Details REQ-Near-RT-RIC-MM-FUN3, REQ-Near-RT-RIC-MM-FUN4, REQ-E2-MM-FUN1, REQ-E2-MM-FUN2, REQ-E2-MM-FUN5, REQ-E2-MM-FUN11, REQ-E2-MM-FUN16 Box "Personnel" #lightblue Actor "Operator" as OPERATOR Box "Service Management and Orchestration" #gold Box "O-RAN Nodes" #lightpink Autonumber L1, L2 information (such as, traffic load etc.) of individual UE end end end configurations configurations end L2 information (such as, traffic load etc.) of individual UE DMRS configurations for a sequence of slots end end end end The overall procedure for CSI-RS and DMRS optimization for mMIMO GoB beamforming use case is given in figure 4.4.3.4.2- 1. use case

### 4.4.4 Required data
This clause elaborates the Near-RT RIC and the E2 node capabilities necessary for implementation of the massive MIMO optimization use case. The requirements are specified in clause 5.

#### 4.4.4.1 Control over E2
Non-Grid-of-Beams beamforming optimization Output data Interface Source → Name/Description Units Config. New or existing config Target Period, granularity E2 Near-RT RIC Non-GoB control/policy (non- index ~per N x New → O-DU GoB beamforming mode) 100ms, per UE Beam-based mobility robustness optimization Output data Interface Source → Name/Description Units Config. New or existing config Target Period, granularity E2 Near-RT RIC Cell Individual Offset (CIO) to dB ~per N x As specified in 3GPP TS → O-CU a given neighbor cell 100ms, per 38.331 [18], clauses beam or 5.3.5 and 5.5.4 beam group, per UE New: beam or beam group, per UE group group (optional) configuration of CIOs E2 Near-RT RIC Time To Trigger (TTT) ms ~per N x As specified in 3GPP TS → O-CU 100ms, per 38.331 [18], clauses beam or 5.3.5 and 6.3.2 beam group, New: beam or beam per UE (optional) configuration of TTTs E2 Near-RT RIC UE Timer 310 (T310) ms ~per N x As specified in 3GPP TS → O-CU 100ms, per 38.331 [18], clauses beam or 5.8.8 and 6.3.2 beam group, New: beam or beam per UE (optional) configuration of TTTs MU-MIMO optimization Output data Interface Source → Name/Description Units Config. New or existing config Target Period, granularity E2 Near-RT RIC CSI resource configuration mess ~per N x As specified in 3GPP TS → O-DU age 100ms, per 38.331 [18], clause 6.3.2 UE E2 Near-RT RIC CSI report configuration mess ~ per N x As specified in 3GPP TS → O-DU age 100ms, per 38.331 [18], clause 6.3.2 UE Output data Interface Source → Name/Description Units Config. New or existing config Target Period, granularity E2 Near-RT RIC SRS resource configuration mess ~ per N x As specified in 3GPP TS → O-DU age 100ms, per 38.331 [18], clause 6.3.2 UE E2 Near-RT RIC PDSCH configuration mess ~ per N x As specified in 3GPP TS → O-DU age 100ms, per 38.331 [18], clause 6.3.2 UE per BWP E2 Near-RT RIC MU-MIMO parameters per slot mess ~ per New → O-DU per UE age Nx1ms, per slot per SMG CSI-RS and DMRS optimization Output data Interface Source → Name/Description Units Config. New or existing config Target Period, granularity E2 Near-RT RIC Per-UE slot-specific GoB- mess ~per N x As specified in 3GPP TS → O-DU based beam configuration age 100ms 38.912 [46], clause (i.e., P2 beamforming- 8.2.1.6, 3GPP TS 38.211 weights/beam-index, PMI, RI, [45], clause 7.4.1.1 LI, etc.) and slot-specific DMRS configuration (i.e., number of OFDM symbols carrying a DMRS port per slot, mapping type, configuration type, etc.) for a sequence of slots

#### 4.4.4.2 UE context information from E2 nodes
<From O-DU> Input data Interface Source → Name/Descripti Units Reporting New or existing Applicable Target on Period, definition, sub-features granularity Existing Specification (Clause) E2 O-DU → UE ID ~per N x As specified in O- Non-GoB Near-RT RIC 100ms, per UE RAN.WG3.E2SM-v02.00 [25] New reporting E2 O-DU → SRS slots ~per N x As specified in 3GPP TS Non-GoB Near-RT RIC configuration 100ms, per UE 38.331 [18], clause 6.3.2 periodicity Input data Interface Source → Name/Descripti Units Reporting New or existing Applicable Target on Period, definition, sub-features granularity Existing Specification (Clause) “SRS-Config >periodicityAndOffset” New reporting E2 O-DU → CSI mess ~per N x As specified in 3GPP TS mUMO Near-RT RIC measurement age 100ms, per UE 38.331 [18], clause 6.3.2 configuration New reporting E2 O-DU → SRS mess ~per N x As specified in O- mUMO Near-RT RIC configuration age 100ms, per UE RAN.WG3.E2SM-RC- R003-v05.00 [42], clause 8.1.1.17 E2 O-DU → BWP mess ~per N x As specified in 3GPP TS mUMO Near-RT RIC configurations age 100ms, per UE 38.331 [18], clause 6.3.2 New reporting E2 O-DU → PDSCH of mess Infrequent, per As specified in 3GPP TS mUMO Near-RT RIC serving cell age UE 38.331 [18], clause 6.3.2 configuration New reporting <From O-CU> Input data Interface Source → Name/Descripti Units Reporting New or existing Applicable Target on Period, definition, sub-features granularity Existing Specification (Clause) E2 O-CU → UE ID and cell ~per N x As specified in O- mUMO Near-RT RIC ID of RRC 100ms, per UE RAN.WG3.E2SM-RC- connected UEs R003-v05.00 [42] E2 O-CU → RRC state ~per N x As specified in O- mUMO Near-RT RIC change 100ms, per UE RAN.WG3.E2SM-RC- R003-v05.00 [42], clause 9.3.37 E2 O-CU → MeasGapConfig mess ~per N x As specified in 3GPP TS mUMO Near-RT RIC age 100ms, per UE 38.331 [18], clause 6.3.2 New reporting E2 O-CU → Served radio mess ~per N x As specified in mUMO Near-RT RIC bearer age 100ms, per UE 3GPP TS 38.473 [21], configuration clause 9.2.2.1 3GPP TS 38.331 [18], clause 6.3.2 New reporting E2 O-CU → DRX mess ~per N x As specified in 3GPP TS mUMO Near-RT RIC configuration age 100ms, per UE 38.331 [18], clause 6.3.2 New reporting E2 O-CU → UE capabilities mess Infrequent, per As specified in 3GPP TS mUMO Near-RT RIC age UE 38.331 [18], clause 6.3.2 Existing reporting

#### 4.4.4.3 Measurements from E2 nodes
<From O-DU> Input data Interface Source → Name/Descripti Units Reporting New or existing definition, Applicable Target on Period, Existing Specification sub- granularity (Clause) features E2 O-DU → RSRP L1 dBm ~per N x As specified in Non-GoB Near-RT RIC measurement 100ms, per UE 3GPP TS 38.133 [26], L1/L2 BM (based on clause 10.1.6 synchronization 3GPP TS 38.215 [27], signal) clause 5.1.1 New reporting E2 O-DU → DL L1 SINR dB ~per N x As specified in Non-GoB Near-RT RIC measurement 100ms, per UE 3GPP TS 38.133 [26], L1/L2 BM (based on clause 10.1.16 synchronization 3GPP TS 38.215 [27], signal) clause 5.1.5 New reporting E2 O-DU → UL SRS RSRP dBm ~per N x As specified in Non-GoB Near-RT RIC measurement 100ms, per UE 3GPP TS 38.133 [26], clause 13.3.1 3GPP TS 38.215 [27], clause 5.2.5 New reporting E2 O-DU → Average DL UE Kb/s (non real-time As specified in Non-GoB Near-RT RIC throughput in + for training) 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause gNB with index 5.1.1.3.1 associated non- New reporting GoB BF mode New component is and MIMO associated non-GoB BF mode mode index and MIMO mode (SU/MU) E2 O-DU → Average UL UE Kb/s (non real-time As specified in Non-GoB Near-RT RIC throughput in + for training) 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause gNB with index 5.1.1.3.3 associated non- New reporting GoB BF mode New component is and MIMO associated non- GoB BF mode mode index and MIMO mode (SU/MU) E2 O-DU → SRS samples ~per N x 1ms, As specified in mUMO Near-RT RIC per SRS RE per O-RAN.WG4.CUS.0-R003- antenna port v13 [34], clause 8.3.5.2 New reporting E2 O-DU → DL channel mess ~per N x 10ms, As specified in mUMO Near-RT RIC quality age per UE 3GPP TS 38.212 [43], information clause 6.3 (PMi, RI, CQI) New reporting E2 O-DU → HARQ count ~per N x 10ms, As specified in mUMO Near-RT RIC ACK/NACK/DT per UE 3GPP TS 38.212 [43], X counts clause 6.3 New reporting E2 O-DU → DL RLC buffer count ~per N x 1ms, As specified in mUMO Near-RT RIC status per DRB per UE 3GPP TS 25.321 [41], clause 8.2.2 New reporting Input data Interface Source → Name/Descripti Units Reporting New or existing definition, Applicable Target on Period, Existing Specification sub- granularity (Clause) features E2 O-DU → MAC mess ~per N x 100ms As specified in mUMO Near-RT RIC timestamped age 3GPP TS 38.473 [21], slot number clause 9.3.1.171 New reporting E2 O-DU → CSI-feedback, mess ~per N x As specified in 3GPP TS CSI and Near-RT RIC such as cell- age 100ms, per UE 38.912 [46], clause DMRS opt. specific and 8.2.1.6.3, 3GPP TS 38.331 CSI-RS-beam- [18], clause 5.5.5.2, 3GPP index-specific TS 38.215 [27], clause 5.1 RSRP, RSRQ, SINR, etc. and SSB-beam- index-specific- RSRP per UE E2 O-DU → CSI-feedback, mess ~per N x As specified in 3GPP TS CSI and Near-RT RIC such as age 100ms, per UE 38.912 [46], clause DMRS opt. precoding 8.2.1.6.3, 3GPP TS 38.214 matrix indication [15], clause 5.2 (PMI), rank indication (RI), layer indication (LI) per UE E2 O-DU → Information mess ~per N x As specified in 3GPP TS CSI and Near-RT RIC about Quasi- age 100ms, per UE 38.214 [15], clause 5.1.5 DMRS opt. Co-Location (QCL) type between SSB and CSI-RS and between CSI- RS and DMRS per UE per cell E2 O-DU → Traffic load and mess ~per N x As specified in 3GPP TS CSI and Near-RT RIC radio resource age 100ms, per cell 28.552 [6] DMRS opt. utilization per UE per cell E2 O-DU → DRB-specific mess ~per N x As specified in O-RAN WG3 CSI and Near-RT RIC PDCP SDU age 100ms, per UE E2SM-KPM [36], O-RAN DMRS opt. data volume, WG3 E2SM-RC [37] DRB-specific RLC buffer occupancy and HARQ-specific Transport Block Size volume per UE <From O-CU> Input data Interface Source → Name/Descripti Units Reporting New or existing definition, Applicable Target on Period, Existing Specification sub- granularity (Clause) features E2 O-CU → Number of too count ~ 1 min, per As specified in 3GPP TS bMRO Near-RT RIC early HOs to a beam or beam 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.25 given neighbor group cell E2 O-CU → Number of too count ~ 1 min, per As specified in 3GPP TS bMRO Near-RT RIC late HOs to a beam or beam 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.25 given neighbor group cell E2 O-CU → Number of HO count ~ 1, per beam As specified in 3GPP TS bMRO Near-RT RIC to wrong cell to or beam group 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.25 a given neighbor cell E2 O-CU → Number of count ~ 1 min, per As specified in 3GPP TS bMRO Near-RT RIC requested beam or beam 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.6 legacy HO group executions (HO attempts) to a given neighbor cell E2 O-CU → Number of count ~ 1 min, per As specified in 3GPP TS bMRO Near-RT RIC successful beam or beam 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.6 legacy HO group executions to a given neighbor cell E2 O-CU → Number of count ~ 1 min, per As specified in 3GPP TS bMRO Near-RT RIC failed legacy beam or beam 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.6 HO executions group to a given neighbor cell E2 O-CU → Mobility failure mess Instantaneous New measurement and bMRO Near-RT RIC indication with age at failure event, new reporting root cause (too per beam or early HO, too beam group, late HO, HO to per UE wrong cell; ping- pong HO) and number of requested or number of successful HO executions at the time of failure E2 O-CU → PDCP buffer count ~per N x 1ms, As specified in 3GPP TS mUMO Near-RT RIC status per DRB per UE 38.323 [40], clause 5.6 New reporting
> NOTE: Measurements for bMRO to be associated with active beam pattern in case of GoB optimization.

#### 4.4.4.4 E2 node configuration
<From O-DU> Input data Interface Source → Name/Descripti Units Reporting New or existing definition, Applicable Target on Period, Existing Specification sub- granularity (Clause) features E2 O-DU → Number of count infrequent event New Non-GoB Near-RT RIC supported non- (> hours) GoB beamforming modes E2 O-DU → O-RU antenna mess Infrequent As specified in O- mUMO Near-RT RIC information age (~hours) RAN.WG4.MP.0-R003-v13 [35], clause D.3.8 New reporting E2 O-DU → O-DU supported mess Infrequent As specified in O- mUMO Near-RT RIC compression age (~hours) RAN.WG4.CUS.0-R003-v13 methods [34], clause 7.7.1.2 New reporting <From O-CU> Input data Interface Source → Name/Descripti Units Reporting New or existing definition, Applicable Target on Period, Existing Specification sub- granularity (Clause) features E2 O-CU → Served cell mess Infrequent As specified in 3GPP TS mUMO Near-RT RIC information age (~hours) 38.473 [21], clause 9.3.1.10 E2 O-CU → MIB mess Infrequent As specified in 3GPP TS mUMO Near-RT RIC age (~hours) 38.331 [18], clause 6.2.2 New reporting E2 O-CU → Serving cell mess Infrequent As specified in 3GPP TS mUMO Near-RT RIC SSB information age (~hours) 38.331 [18], clause 6.3.2 New reporting <To O-CU> Output data Interface Source → Name/Descripti Units Config. Period, New or existing definition, Applicable Target on granularity Existing Specification sub- (Clause) features E2 Near-RT RIC Beam grouping list infrequent event New bMRO → O-CU info (list of (> hours) beam group IDs with associated beam IDs)

## 4.5 QoE optimization
Based on the end-to-end requirements for the QoE optimization use case specified in [32] and in [28], some high-level functional description and requirements over Near-RT RIC and E2 interface are introduced.

### 4.5.1 Background and goal of the use case
The highly demanding 5G native applications like cloud VR are both bandwidth consuming and latency sensitive. However, for such traffic-intensive and highly interactive applications, current semi-static QoS framework can be insufficient to satisfy diversified QoE requirements especially taking into account potentially significant fluctuation of radio transmission capability. It is expected that QoE estimation/prediction can help deal with such uncertainty and improve the efficiency of radio resources, and eventually improve user experience. RAN Analytics Information (RAI) as RAN service can be exposed to RAI service consumers for specific UE (as specified in O-RAN.WG1.O-RAN-Architecture-Description-v06.00 [30], clause 4.5) or for groups of UE (per slice, per cell, per PLMN, etc.). RAI is envisioned to be helpful for the applications to improve the user experience. Near-RT RIC and E2 interface are leveraged to support this use case. Measurement data through E2 interface, e.g., cell level data, UE level data, can be acquired and processed via ML algorithms to support traffic recognition, QoE prediction, and QoS enforcement decisions. When requested, the analytics information, e.g., traffic rate, latency, packet loss rate, is exposed to the RAI service consumers to help applications execute logical control.

### 4.5.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case
1) Near-RT RIC: a) Support receiving request or subscription messages from RAI service consumer. b) Support receiving network state and UE performance report from RAN. c) Support data analysis and executing the AI/ML models to infer RAN analytics information, e.g., QoE prediction, and available bandwidth prediction. d) Support exposure RAN analytics information to RAI service consumer. 2) RAN: a) Support network state and UE performance report with required granularity to Near-RT RIC over E2 interface. 3) RAI service consumer: a) Request or subscribe to RAN analytics information from the Near-RT RIC. b) Support UE identification using data structure as specified in O-RAN.WG1.O-RAN-Architecture-Description-v06.00 [30], clause 4.

### 4.5.3 Solutions

#### 4.5.3.0 Introduction
This clause specifies solution components that can be combined into different solutions. A solution based on E2 control/policy consists of clause 4.5.3.1 and clause 4.5.3.2. Another solution based on RAN analytics information exposure consists of clause 4.5.3.1 and clause 4.5.3.3.

#### 4.5.3.1 AI/ML model training and distribution
Overall process shall be as specified in O-RAN.WG2.UCR [28], clause 4.2.3.1, however step 3 would be performed over O2 when and if “image based” ML model deployment option is selected (as specified in O-RAN.WG2.AIML [29], clause 7).

#### 4.5.3.2 Policy generation and performance evaluation
Editor’s note: to be defined based on requirements as specified in O-RAN.WG2.UCR [28], clause 4.2.3.2.

#### 4.5.3.3 RAN performance analytics assisted QoE optimization
RAN performance analytics can be requested by the RAI service consumer using either a request/response solution or a subscription-based solution. The context of RAN performance analytics assisted QoE optimization using request/response is captured in table 4.5.3.3-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Expose RAN analytics information to RAI service consumer for QoE Goal optimization. Actors and Roles Near-RT RIC, RAI service consumer, E2 nodes All relevant functions and components are instantiated. Assumptions RAI service consumer has obtained the necessary information to initiate request for QoE related RAI from the Near-RT RIC. QoE related ML models have been deployed in Near-RT RIC. Pre-conditions E2 interface is established to enable collection of measurements from E2 nodes. RAI service consumer decides to request RAN analytics information for Begins when QoE optimization. RAI service consumer requests for QoE related RAN analytics Step 1 (M) information from Near-RT RIC. Near-RT RIC initiates measurement data collection from E2 nodes via Step 2 (O) RIC subscription procedure. See NOTE 1. E2 node sends periodic measurement data to Near-RT RIC, received Step 3-4 (M) data is processed and stored. Near-RT RIC generates the RAN analytics information, using QoE Step 5 (M) related AI/ML models and collected measurement data. Near-RT RIC sends the RAN analytics information to RAI service Step 6 (M) consumer. Ends when RAI service consumer receives the RAN analytics information response. Exceptions None identified. RAI service consumer obtains RAI necessary for QoE optimization. Post Conditions Near-RT RIC may stop data collection.
> NOTE 1: Near-RT RIC may be configured to start collection of measurement data before requested by RAI service
consumer. Box “O-RAN” #lightpink Box “External” #lightcyan Loop Data collection end The flow diagram of the RAN performance analytics assisted QoE optimization using request/response is given in figure 4.5.3.3.- 1. The context of RAN performance analytics assisted QoE optimization using subscription-based solution is captured in table 4.5.3.3-2. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Expose RAN analytics information to RAI service consumer for QoE Goal optimization. Actors and Roles Near-RT RIC, RAI service consumer, E2 nodes All relevant functions and components are instantiated. Assumptions RAI service consumer has obtained the necessary information to initiate request for QoE related RAI from the Near-RT RIC. QoE related ML models have been deployed in Near-RT RIC. Pre-conditions E2 interface is established to enable collection of measurements from E2 nodes. RAI service consumer decides to subscribe to reports of RAN analytics Begins when information for QoE optimization. RAI service consumer initiates RAI subscription procedure for QoE Step 1 (M) related RAN analytics information from Near-RT RIC. Near-RT RIC may initiate measurement data collection from E2 nodes Step 2 (O) via RIC subscription procedure. See NOTE 1. Steps 3-5 loop with RAI service consumer receiving requested subscription-based reports. E2 node sends periodic measurement data to Near-RT RIC, received Step 3-4 (M) data is processed and stored. Near-RT RIC generates the RAN analytics information, using QoE Step 5 (M) related AI/ML models and collected measurement data. Near-RT RIC sends the RAN analytics information to RAI service Step 6 (M) consumer. Ends when RAI service consumer initiates RAI subscription delete procedure. Exceptions None identified. RAI service consumer obtains RAI necessary for QoE optimization. Post Conditions Near-RT RIC may stop E2 node data collection.
> NOTE 1: Near-RT RIC may be configured to start collection of measurement data before requested by RAI service
consumer. Box “O-RAN” #lightpink Box “External” #lightcyan app <-> near : 1. RAI Subscription procedure for QoE optimization Loop Until subscription terminated Loop Data collection end end app <-> near : RAI Subscription Delete procedure The flow diagram of the RAN performance analytics assisted QoE optimization using subscription-based solution is given in figure 4.5.3.3-2.

### 4.5.4 Required data
This clause elaborates the Near-RT RIC and the E2 node capabilities necessary for implementation of the QoE optimization use case, especially for RAN performance analytics. The requirements are specified in clause 5.

#### 4.5.4.1 UE context information from E2 nodes
The followings are examples of UE context information identified as required:
- UE ID
- List of S-NSSAI
- List of QoS related ID, eg., 5QI, QFI
For example, UE ID, S-NSSAI or QoS related ID can be used to collect, analysis and predict the resource occupation of each user, slice or service, eg. maximum/average throughput, maximum/average latency, average packet loss rate.

#### 4.5.4.2 Measurements from E2 nodes
The E2 measurements are necessary for inference and prediction in the Near-RT RIC as the driver for decisions in addition to KPMs. For the QoE optimization use case, especially for RAN performance analytics, the Near-RT RIC receives the request or subscription from RAI service consumer and subscribes and receives the measurement data from O-CU/O-DU through E2 interface. Based on it, with QoE related AI/ML models, the Near-RT RIC infers the RAN analytics information, and exposes it to RAI service consumer. The examples of cell-level, UE-level, and slice-level measurement information are listed in table 4.5.4.2-1 below. Measurement Type Measurement Examples 1. MCS Distribution in PDSCH (available at DU; as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.12.1) 2. DL/UL Total PRB usage (available at DU; as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.2.1 and 5.1.1.2.2 and in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clauses 4.5.3 and 4.5.4) 3. Distribution of DL/UL Total PRB usage (available at DU; as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.2.3 and 5.1.1.2.4 and in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clauses 4.5.10 and 4.5.11) 4. DL/UL PRB used for data traffic (available at DU; optionally split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.2.5 and 5.1.1.2.7) 5. DL/UL PRB usage for traffic (per QCI, as specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clauses 4.5.1 and 4.5.2) 6. DL/UL Total available PRB (available at DU; as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.2.6 and 5.1.1.2.8) 7. DL/UL PRB full utilization (as specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clauses 4.5.9.1 and 4.5.9.2) 8. Total number of DL/UL TBs (available at DU; split into subcounters per layer at MU-MIMO case, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.7.3 Cell-level L2 and 5.1.1.7.8 and in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clauses 4.5.7.1 and 4.5.7.3) 9. Total error number of DL/UL TBs (available at DU; split into subcounters per layer at MU-MIMO case, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.7.4 and 5.1.1.7.9 and in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clauses 4.5.7.2 and 4.5.7.4) 10. Average DL UE throughput in gNB (available at DU; optionally split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.3.1) 11. Distribution of DL UE throughput in gNB (available at DU; optionally split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.3.2) 12. Packet Delay (available at DU and CU-UP; optionally split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.3.3) 13. RAN part packet delay components (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.314 [16], clause 4.2.1.2) 14. Packet Delay (per QCI, as specified in 3GPP TS 36.314 [9], clause 4.1.4) 15. DL/UL Cell PDCP SDU Data Volume (available at CU-UP; per PLMN ID and per QoS level (mapped 5QI) and per S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.2.1 for non-split gNB, clause 5.1.3.6.2 for split gNB; per Measurement Type Measurement Examples PLMN ID and per E-RAB QoS profile (QCI, ARP and GBR), as specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clause 4.4.7) 16. Mean number of Active UEs in the DL/UL per cell (available at DU; optionally split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.23.1 and 5.1.1.23.3) 17. Max number of Active UEs in the DL/UL per cell (available at DU; optionally split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.23.2 and 5.1.1.23.4) 18. Average number of Active UEs (per QCI, as specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clause 4.4.2) 19. Packet Loss Rate (available at CU-UP or DU; optionally split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.3.1) 20. Packet Loss Rate (per QCI, as specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clause 4.4.4) 21. DL Packet Drop Rate (available at CU-UP or DU; optionally split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.3.2) 22. DL Packet Drop Rate (per QCI, as specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clause 4.4.3.2) 1. SINR (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]) Radio channel info 2.RSRP (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]) in CU-CP 3.RSRQ (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]) CQI, MCS DL/UL UE throughput DL/UL UE PRB usage RLC buffer size RLC occupied buffer UE-level RLC unused buffer UL/DL MAC rate L2 Packet Delay Packet Interval Packet Jitter, eg. Packet Interval Jitter, Packet Size Jitter Data volume (per UE, as specified in 3GPP TS 36.314 [9], clause 4.1.8) Data volume (per UE) Packet Loss Rate per DRB per UE (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.314 [16], clause 4.2.1.5) Measurement Type Measurement Examples Block Error Rate DL Packet Drop Rate Total number of RLC SDUs/PDUs DL/UL UE PRB usage RLC buffer size RLC occupied buffer RLC unused buffer UL/DL MAC rate Packet Delay Packet Interval Slice-level L2 Packet Jitter, eg. Packet Interval Jitter, Packet Size Jitter Data volume (per QCI, as specified in 3GPP TS 36.314 [9], clause 4.1.8) Data volume (per 5QI) Packet Loss Rate per DRB per UE Block Error Rate DL Packet Drop Rate (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.3.2) Total number of RLC SDUs/PDUs

### 4.5.5 RAN analytics information exposed by Near-RT RIC
Based on the measurements from E2 nodes, with QoE related AI/ML models, the Near-RT RIC infers the RAN analytics information and expose it to RAI service consumer. The exposed RAN analytics information will be helpful for the applications to evaluate network status and execute logic control, e.g., TCP transmission window adjustment, video coding rate selection to improve QoE. The examples of RAN analytics information are listed in table 4.5.5-1 below. Measurement Type Measurement Examples 1. Minimum/maximum/average throughput Predicted RAN 2. Minimum/maximum/average latency performance 3. Average packet loss rate 4. QoE prediction UE-level Prediction related 1. Confidence information 2. Validity period

## 4.6 Network energy saving
This use case provides the motivation, description, and requirements for Near RT RIC and E2 interface to support network energy saving, whose end-to-end requirements are specified in [32]. The RAN is responsible for the majority of the Energy Consumption (EC) of a mobile network, and the O-RU consumes the largest part of the energy consumption of the RAN. The rarefication of fossil fuel-based energy resources and the urgent need to reduce CO emissions make energy saving a strategic goal for network operators, in addition to the significant energy related OPEX reduction requirement. Energy consumption can be reduced by improving the Energy Efficiency (EE) of the network, and by introducing different Energy Saving (ES) mechanisms. Several ES mechanisms are related to switching off certain components and resources in the network and differ from one another by their time scale. In a longer time-scale of minutes, hours and above, and when the cell load is low, ES can be achieved by switching off one or more carriers or the cell itself. At the same or shorter time-scale, from seconds to minutes, ES can be achieved by switching off RF channels (including possibly array of antennas) of a Massive-MIMO (mMIMO) system. At a shorter time-scale corresponding to a symbol, subframe and frame, Advanced Sleep Modes (ASM) can be considered (see ORAN-WG1.Use Cases Energy Saving Technical Report R003 v02.00 [i.4], 3GPP TR 28.813 [i.5] and 3GPP TS 28.310 [33]). The ES use cases are divided into three sub-use cases, which have different properties, the time scale of the control and the controlled system involved: 1. Carrier and cell switch off/on 2. RF channel reconfiguration 3. Advanced Sleep Modes Another mechanism to achieve ES is to apply PRB blanking optimization. Blanking the PRBs saves power in many components in the O-RU due to the reduced input/output power and processing load. PRB blanking also supports interference reduction in a multi-cell environment. PRB blanking optimization is applicable to all three time-scales (longer time-scale of minutes or above, shorter time-scale from seconds to minutes as well as even shorter time-scale corresponding to a symbol, subframe and frame).

### 4.6.1 Carrier and cell switch off/on

#### 4.6.1.1 Background and goal of the use case
Carrier and cell switch off/on control by the Non-RT or Near-RT RIC can consider overall network energy efficiency instead of local optimization. In addition to the ES optimization in the SMO/Non-RT RIC, optimizing network EC in the Near-RT RIC brings significant gains due to more UE centric, near-real-time intelligent control capabilities with finer granularity. The AI/ML models' functionality in the Near-RT RIC can include prediction of future traffic, user mobility, resource usage, QoS and QoE on a per UE basis and may also predict expected energy efficiency enhancements, resource usage, and network performance for different carrier and cell switching off/on options. Based on the predicted results, optimized ES control actions or policies can be given by the Near-RT RIC to E2 nodes in near-real-time manner to track the dynamic network conditions. ES control also includes preparation actions (before carrier and cells are switched off) and post control actions (after carrier and cells are switched on) such as checking ongoing emergency calls and warning messages, enabling/disabling/modifying carrier aggregation and/or dual connectivity, steering traffic and handing over UEs from source cells/carriers to other cells/carriers, changing MU- MIMO layers, beam scheduling policies and SSB burst configurations etc, which can be handled in the Near-RT RIC by the intelligent and UE centric RAN control capabilities coordinated with the SMO/Non-RT RIC. The goal of Near-RT RIC energy saving is to interpret the policies received over A1 and to determine the optimum changes it can make according to these policies. More specifically, Near-RT RIC triggers E2 procedure and related control/policies so as to obtain network performance that would fulfill the criteria identified in the A1 policies. It may also leverage the A1 enrichment information to make more informed decisions. Traffic steering may reuse mechanisms provided by other use cases to affect the changes necessary to achieve its goals. The Near-RT RIC may also work in background processing without the A1 policy guidance from the Non-RT RIC.

#### 4.6.1.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case
1) Near-RT RIC: a) Near-real-time monitoring of energy saving related performance measurements. b) Receive energy saving xApps from SMO. c) Support interpretation and enforcement of A1 policies from Non-RT RIC. d) Support enrichment information via the A1 interface. e) Perform optimized RAN (E2) actions to achieve ES requirements based on O1 configuration, A1 policy, A1 enrichment information and E2 reports. 2) E2 node: a) Support ES optimization actions or policy enforcements via E2. b) Support ES related performance measurements through O1. c) Support ES related performance reports through E2.

#### 4.6.1.3 Solution
There are three general ES processing modes and the transitions between them. The three processing modes, baseline, background and A1 policy-based, as described in clause 4.1.3 for traffic steering use case applies to the energy saving use case as is except that the modes represent the way the Near-RT RIC operates on a given E2 node rather than UE specific. The context of ES optimization by carriers and cell switching off/on is captured in table 4.6.1.3-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Drive energy saving cell switching off/on optimization in accordance with RAN Goal OAM configured background behavior (mode 1) or policies information from the Non-RT RIC using A1 interface (mode 2).
- Non-RT RIC in SMO domain: Creates and updates A1 policies, provide A1
enrichment information.
- Near-RT RIC: Enforces A1 policies and generates RIC CONTROL and/or
POLICY. Actors and Roles - E2 node: RIC CONTROL and POLICY execution and RIC REPORT creation. Refer to 4.6.1.2 for more details.
- All relevant functions and components are instantiated.
Assumptions - A1, O1 and E2 interface connectivity is established.
- A1 policy scope defined.
- Network is operational with default configuration.
- OAM functions have configured a baseline measurement configuration and
the Non-RT RIC has access to this data.
- OAM functions have configured baseline traffic steering parameters in E2
node(s) through O1 interface. Pre-conditions - (optional) If ES mode 1, OAM functions have configured background ES behavior to the Near-RT RIC through O1 interface.
- Non-RT RIC analyzes the historical data from RAN for training the relevant
AI/ML models to be deployed or updated in the Near-RT RIC, as well as AI/ML models required for non-real-time optimization of configuration and policies. Energy saving optimization by cell switching off/on is activated or an operator Begins when defined trigger is detected. (Start of outer loop control) Step 1 (O) If ES mode 1, OAM functions collect data from E2 node through O1 interface. Step 2 (O) Non-RT RIC retrieve ES related performance data from OAM function. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Non-RT RIC evaluates the collected data and A1 policy feedback, if required, Step 3 (O) and generates or updates the appropriate ES optimization policy, such as ES targets and carrier/cell switching off/on guidance, etc. Step 4 (O) Non-RT RIC sends the ES optimization policy to Near-RT RIC via A1 interface. Step 5 (O) Non-RT RIC sends optional ES related A1 enrichment information. Step 6 (O) If ES mode 2, Near-RT RIC collects data from E2 node through E2 interface. Near-RT RIC evaluates the collected data, if required, generates or updates the Step 7 (O) internal background mode ES optimization targets or policies. (Start of inner loop control) Step 8 (M) Near-RT RIC subscribes to a UE context information and measurement metrics via E2 interface. E2 nodes report the UE context information and E2 measurements via RIC Step 9 (M) REPORT periodically or event-triggered. Near-RT RIC evaluates the performance data from E2 nodes and finds potential Step 10 (M) improvements to energy efficiency which are indicated in the A1 policy and/or internal Near-RT RIC TS targets. Based on the UE context information, E2 measurement metrics (RIC REPORT), and A1 policy, Near-RT RIC may generate new or modify the existing E2 policies and sends them to E2 nodes. E2 node functions target of E2 policy may be:
- E-UTRAN-NR dual connectivity
Step 11 (O)
- Carrier aggregation
- Connected mode mobility
- Idle mode mobility
- Radio access control
- Cell switching off/on control
Near-RT RIC may also generate control command(s) and send them to E2 node(s) to trigger re-allocation of radio resources and switching off/on carrier and cells so that the overall network energy efficiency can be improved. Step 12 (O) E2 node functions target of E2 control command may be:
- Same as Step 11
(End of inner loop control) For ES mode 2, Near RT-RIC may send A1 policy feedback on A1 to the Non- Step 13 (O) RT RIC. (End of outer loop control) Non-RT RIC decides to delete ES optimization policy in case of ES mode 2 and Step 14 (O) sends the related messages. Following A1 policy deletion (mode 2) or internal trigger (mode 1), the Near-RT Step 15,16 (M) RIC terminates the ES optimization procedure and delete the related RIC subscriptions. Ends when ES optimization is deactivated, or an operator defined trigger is detected. Exceptions None. Energy saving over a period of time is achieved. Post Conditions REQ-E2-ES-FUN1, REQ-E2-ES-FUN2, REQ-Near-RT-RIC-ES-FUN1, REQ- Traceability Near-RT-RIC-ES-FUN2，REQ-Near-RT-RIC-ES-FUN3 Box “Service Management and Orchestration” #gold Box “O-RAN” #lightpink OAM <--> ran : (Mode 2) <<O1>> RAN Data collection end end The flow diagram of the ES optimization by carriers and cell switching off/on is given in figure 4.6.1.3-1.

#### 4.6.1.4 Required data
This clause elaborates the Near-RT RIC and the E2 node capabilities necessary for implementation of the ES carrier and cell switch off/on use case. The requirements are specified in clause 5.

##### 4.6.1.4.1 Control over E2
1) Radio access control: Access control may be applied to restrict access of other UEs for a specific cell in order to prepare for switching off the cell to save energy. A cell-level, UE-level, or slice-level access control can be applied. Four categories of radio access control are indicated as below:
- RACH backoff
- RRC connection reject
- RRC connection release
- Access barring
Both RIC POLICY and RIC CONTROL can be used. 2) Mobility control: For example, a neighbouring cell may be selected in order to switch off the current serving cell. A neighbour handover restriction list may be configured to prevent the UEs from HO to some neighbour cells in order to reduce traffic load of the neighbour cells and switch them off.
- Handover from the source cell to the target cell
- Configuration/reconfiguration of handover restriction list
- Configuration of idle mode mobility parameters
- Enable, disable, or modify CA (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.473 [21], 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11])
- Enable, disable, or modify dual connectivity (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.473 [21], 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS
36.331 [11]) Both RIC POLICY and RIC CONTROL can be used. 3) Carriers and cell switch off/on control: Depending on the traffic condition, certain number of carriers and cells can be switched off by the Near-RT RIC by sending guidance to the E2 node when the traffic is low in order to save energy. When the network conditions deteriorate (e.g., congested traffic, frequent handover failure and/or RA failure), carrier/cell switch- on control command could be sent to E2 node in E2 policy/control to activate the cell/carrier from energy saving and hence ensure network performance.
> NOTE: Once E2 node receives the guidance from Near-RT RIC for switching off/on a cell/carrier, it is not expected that the
cell/carrier can be switched off immediately. The E2 node can take time to do all necessary actions to prepare for switching off/on the carrier/cell and there is also a delay in O-RU and open fronthaul interface for switching off/on the cell/carrier. However, it is still expected, as specified in [32], that the Near-RT RIC to send this intent to the E2 node to start the process for cell/carrier switching off/on after the network performance and energy efficiency are jointly optimized through for example traffic steering and QoS/QoE optimisation by the Near-RT RIC through 1) and 2). The E2 node (e.g., O-CU-CP) can optionally do traffic steering and OoS optimisation upon receiving this command from the Near-RT RIC before triggering the cell/carrier switching off/on. Either RIC POLICY or RIC CONTROL can be used which is not addressed in the present document.

##### 4.6.1.4.2 UE context information from E2 nodes
The followings are examples of UE context information identified as required:
- UE ID (as specified in [32])
- Slice level: S-NSSAI
- DRB level: e.g., established DRB ID, mapping with QoS flows, etc.
- QoS related: e.g., E-RAB level QoS parameters (4G, NSA) or QoS flow level QoS parameters (NG-RAN)
- UE capabilities: CA and DC capabilities
For example, UE ID, S-NSSAI, DRB ID, or QCI/5QI can be used to derive the QoS requirements and the resource occupation; the UE capabilities may be required to select the appropriate RRM action (e.g., CA/DC configuration).

##### 4.6.1.4.3 Measurements from E2 nodes
The E2 measurements are necessary for inference and prediction in the Near-RT RIC as the driver for decisions in addition to KPMs. For the energy saving carrier and cell switch off/on use case, the Near-RT RIC can translate an A1 policy (relatively static targets) into a flexible selection of controls over E2 (e.g., handover control, DC, CA, idle mode mobility, carrier and cell switching off/on) by taking into account the RAN resource utilization, cell level and the UE level performance, the radio and traffic conditions, QoS and QoE requirements and energy consumption and efficiency etc. The examples of measurement information identified as required are listed in table 4.6.1.4.3-1. Measurement Measurement Examples Type
- DL/UL Total PRB Usage, Distribution of DL/UL Total PRB Usage, DL/UL GBR PRB
Usage, DL/UL non-GBR PRB Usage, RRC Connection Number, Available RRC Connection Capacity Value, Mean and Maximum Number of Active UEs per DRB in the DL/UL, DL/UL Scheduling PDCCH CCE Usage, DL/UL Composite Available Capacity, DL/UL Cell PDCP SDU Data Volume (including secondary RAT usage for EN-DC/MR- Cell/SSB area DC), Handover success ratio related - DL/UL SSB Area Total PRB Usage, DL/UL SSB Area GBR PRB Usage, DL/UL SSB measurements Area non-GBR PRB Usage, SSB Area Capacity Value
- DL/UL PRB usage per QCI, DL/UL PRB usage per 5QI, DL/UL PRB usage per slice,
Slice Available Capacity Value As specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], 3GPP TS 36.314 [9], 3GPP TS 38.314 [16], 3GPP TS 38.423 [19], 3GPP TS 38.463 [20] and 3GPP TS 38.473 [21]
- Average DL/UL throughput
- DL/UL PRB usage
- DL/UL Scheduled IP throughput
E2 node user plane
- Buffer Status Information (e.g., UL BSR)
measurements per- UE/UE group As specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], 3GPP TS 36.314 [9], 3GPP TS 38.314 [16], 3GPP TS 38.423 [19], 3GPP TS 38.473 [21], 3GPP TS 38.463 [20], 3GPP TS 36.321 [10], 3GPP TS 38.321 [17]
- RSRP and RSRQ measurements
- SINR measurements
UE L1/L2/L3 - CQI/MCS measurements measurements - Location and Velocity measurements As specified in 3GPP TS 36.331 [11] and 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] Energy consumption measurement of O-RU Energy
- PNF Power Consumption (average/min/max)
consumption
- PNF Energy Consumption (average/min/max)
measurement As specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6] Mobility and RA related KPIs/measurements from the E2 nodes hosting the target NES cell(s) and/or the neighbour cell(s) to the target NES cell(s) Mobility and RA - Handover failure related, e.g., number of handover failures related to MRO related - RACH failure related, e.g., distribution of RACH access delay KPIs/measurements - Radio link failure reports of UE/UE group - UE context release related, e.g., number of UE context release requests As specified in 3GPP TS 36.331 [11], 3GPP TS 38.331 [18], 3GPP 32.425 [7], 3GPP 28.552 [6]

##### 4.6.1.4.4 E2 node configuration
Cell level configuration parameters in order to configure UE measurements required for traffic steering and QoS/QoE optimization (see clause 4.1.4.4) for optionally preparing for and optimizing network performance and efficiency before cell/carrier switching off/on.

### 4.6.2 Advanced sleep mode

#### 4.6.2.1 Background and goal of the use case
During DL transmission or UL reception, certain O-RU components (e.g., PA, LNA and baseband etc) can be powered off during blank OFDM symbols and slots. For power saving at the symbol level, PA and LNA can be turned off since their transition period (on to off and off to on) can be in a few microseconds (micro sleep). For power saving at slot level, additional HW can be turned off to save more energy if the transition time allowed is in a few milliseconds (light sleep). For power saving at frame level, even more HW can be turned off (e.g., only maintain O-RU M-plane processing) however higher transition delay, in 100 msec, is expected. For micro and light sleeps, Near-RT RIC can play important roles which based on AI/ML solutions can help to create more sleeping opportunities in the E2 nodes to save energy by e.g., steering traffic, influencing traffic shaping/scheduling, and adjusting common channel (SS/RS) configurations etc. For deep sleeps, where traffic prediction and more capacity, coverage, accessibility and QoS/QoE impacts awareness is needed because of the long-term traffic interruption (e.g., >100ms), Near-RT RIC is the sensible place to guide the system into deep mode due to the rich UE centric data and AI/ML solutions available in the Near-RT RIC. The goal of Near-RT RIC energy saving is to interpret the policies received over A1 and to determine the optimum changes it can make according to these policies. More specifically, Near-RT RIC triggers E2 procedure and related control/policies so as to obtain network performance that would fulfill the criteria identified in the A1 policies. It may also leverage the A1 enrichment information to make more informed decisions. Traffic steering may reuse mechanisms provided by other use cases to affect the changes necessary to achieve its goals. The Near-RT RIC may also work in background processing without the A1 policy guidance from the Non-RT RIC.

#### 4.6.2.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case
See clause 4.6.1.2.

#### 4.6.2.3 Solution
The three processing modes, baseline (mode 0), background (mode 1) and A1 policy-based (mode 2), as described in clause 4.1.3 for traffic steering use case applies to this use case also as is except that the modes represent the way the Near-RT RIC operates on a given E2 node rather than UE specific. The context of energy saving ASM optimization is captured in table 4.6.2.3-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Drive energy saving Advanced Sleep Mode (ASM) optimization in accordance Goal with RAN OAM configured background behavior (ES mode 1) or policies information from the Non-RT RIC using A1 interface (ES mode 2).
- Non-RT RIC in SMO domain: Creates and updates A1 policies, provide A1
enrichment information.
- Near-RT RIC: Enforces A1 policies and generates RIC CONTROL and/or
POLICY. Actors and Roles - E2 node: RIC CONTROL and POLICY execution and RIC REPORT creation. Refer to 4.6.2.2 for more details.
- All relevant functions and components are instantiated.
Assumptions - A1, O1 and E2 interface connectivity is established.
- A1 policy scope defined.
- Network is operational with default configuration.
- OAM functions have configured a baseline measurement configuration and
the Non-RT RIC has access to this data.
- OAM functions have configured baseline ES parameters in E2 node(s)
through O1 interface. Pre-conditions - (optional) If ES mode 1, OAM functions have configured background ES behavior to the Near-RT RIC through O1 interface.
- Non-RT RIC analyzes the historical data from RAN for training the relevant
AI/ML models to be deployed or updated in the Near-RT RIC, as well as AI/ML models required for non-real-time optimization of configuration and policies. Energy saving ASM optimization is activated, or an operator defined trigger is Begins when detected. (Start of outer loop control) Step 1 (O) If ES mode 2, OAM functions collects data from E2 node through O1 interface. Step 2 (O) Non-RT RIC retrieve ES related performance data from OAM function. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Non-RT RIC evaluates the collected data and A1 policy feedback, if required, Step 3 (O) and generates or updates the appropriate ES optimization policy, such as energy saving and performance targets and ASM guidance, etc. Step 4 (O) Non-RT RIC sends the ES optimization policy to Near-RT RIC via A1 interface. Step 5 (O) Non-RT RIC sends optional ES related A1 enrichment information. Step 6 (O) If ES mode 1, Near-RT RIC collects data from E2 node through E2 interface. Near-RT RIC evaluates the collected data, if required, generates, or updates Step 7 (O) the internal background mode ES optimization targets or policies. (Start of inner loop control) Step 8 (M) Near-RT RIC subscribes to a UE context information and measurement metrics via E2 interface. E2 nodes report the UE context information and E2 measurements via RIC Step 9 (M) REPORT periodically or event triggered. Near-RT RIC evaluates the performance data from E2 nodes and finds potential Step 10 (M) improvements to energy efficiency which are indicated in the A1 policy and/or internal Near-RT RIC TS targets. Based on the UE context information, E2 measurement metrics (RIC REPORT), and A1 policy, Near-RT RIC may generate new or modify the existing E2 policies and sends them to E2 nodes. E2 node functions target of E2 policy may be: Step 11 (O) - Mobility control
- Radio access control
- ASM scheduler policy setting
- Common channel configurations
- Sleep mode configurations
Near-RT RIC may also generate control command(s) and send them to E2 node(s) to trigger the reconfiguration of radio resources, traffic steering, reconfiguration of common channels and entering/leaving deep sleep mode. Step 12 (O) E2 node functions target of E2 control command may be:
- Same as Step 11
(End of inner loop control) For ES mode 2, Near RT-RIC may send A1 policy feedback on A1 to the Non- Step 13 (O) RT RIC. (End of outer loop control) Non-RT RIC decides to delete ES optimization policy in case of ES mode 2 and Step 14 (O) sends the related messages. Following A1 policy deletion (mode 2) or internal trigger (mode 1), the Near-RT Step 15,16 (M) RIC terminates the ES optimization procedure and delete the related RIC subscriptions. Ends when ES optimization is deactivated, or an operator defined trigger is detected. Exceptions None. Energy saving over a period of time is achieved. Post Conditions REQ-Near-RT-RIC-ES-FUN1, REQ-Near-RT-RIC-ES-FUN2, REQ-Near-RT- Traceability RIC-ES-FUN4, REQ-E2-ES-FUN2, REQ-E2-ES-FUN3, REQ-E2-ES-FUN4， REQ-E2-ES-FUN5 Box “Service Management and Orchestration” #gold Box “O-RAN” #lightpink OAM <--> ran : (Mode 2) <<O1>> RAN Data collection end end The flow diagram of the energy saving ASM optimization is given in figure 4.6.2.3-1.

#### 4.6.2.4 Required Data
This clause elaborates the Near-RT RIC and the E2 node capabilities necessary for implementation of the ES ASM use case. The requirements are specified in clause 5.

##### 4.6.2.4.1 Control over E2
1) Radio access control: Access control may be applied to restrict access of other UEs for a specific cell in order to create more sleeping opportunities for the cell. A cell-level, UE-level, or slice-level access control can be applied. Four categories of radio access control are indicated as below:
- RACH backoff
- RRC connection reject
- RRC connection release
- Access barring
Both RIC POLICY and RIC CONTROL can be used. 2) Mobility control: In order to reduce traffic load to create more sleeping opportunities on the targeted cells, serving cell can be chosen based on the resource status and QoS of the UE(s) and a neighbour handover restriction list may be configured to prevent the UEs from HO to some neighbour cells. The following procedures can be used for mobility control:
- Handover from the source cell to the target cell
- Configuration/reconfiguration of handover restriction list
- Configuration of idle mode mobility parameters
- Enable, disable, or modify CA (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.473 [21], 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11])
- Enable, disable, or modify dual connectivity (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.473 [21], 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS
36.331 [11]) Both RIC POLICY and RIC CONTROL can be used. 3) NES related radio resource control, such as configuration common channel periodicities and semi-persistent scheduling (SPS) to create more sleep opportunities including the following types of configurations:
- SR periodicity reconfiguration (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]): Both sr-ProhibitTimer
and sr-TransMax can be treated.
- SPS configuration (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]): Both SPS-Config (DL) and
ConfiguredGrantConfig (UL) can be treated.
- CSI-RS periodicity configurations.
- Common channel periodicity configurations.
> NOTE: UE DTX/DRX slots overwrite the SR and SPS configurations since during DTX/DRX, SR and SPS transmission will
be deactivated. SSB periodicity may be reconfigured by the Near-RT RIC (if the capability is exposed by the E2 node) on some cells such that the O-RU can have longer sleep duration which enables deeper sleep (more hardware components can be switched off) to save energy, however, the performance impact to UEs needs to be taken care by the operator and xApp/E2 node vendors. Both RIC POLICY and RIC CONTROL can be used. 4) ASM mode objectives: Configuration of ASM mode objectives to the E2 node which can include:
- Energy saving target, e.g., targeted energy saving in percentage of current average energy consumption or energy saving
levels (e.g., maximum energy saving, medium energy saving, maximum performance etc.).
- UE or cell level performance targets, e.g., throughput cap, throughput drop tolerance, latency target.
- Preferred sleep mode, as specified in O-RAN.WG4.MP.0-R003-v13 [35], clause 20.4.1, sleep-mode-type of asm-
capability-info. Either RIC POLICY or RIC CONTROL can be used.
> NOTE: After the objectives are configured, the E2 node shall try to achieve the objectives, however, whether the objectives can
be met depends on the real traffic conditions and E2 node implementations. The E2 node reports if the ASM performance objective is applied and taken into operation. The E2 node also reports the related KPIs, as defined in clause 4.6.1.4.3, for Near- RT RIC to assess the performance changes comparing against the objectives and make further optimisation actions. 5) Sleep mode configuration: Depending on the current and predicted future traffic conditions, the Near-RT RIC may guide O-DU to move the carriers into sleep mode. Following the guidance, O-DU may decide to disable (“move to sleep mode”) array carriers, tx-arrays or rx-arrays or the whole O-RU accordingly via the O-FH C-plane in order to save energy (see O- RAN.WG4.CUS.0-R003-v13 [34], table 7.4.6-7). The guided configurations can include:
- Indication of the slot numbers, symbol numbers and the conditions for the sleep mode configuration to be applied.
- The sleep mode (as specified in O-RAN.WG4.MP.0-R003-v13 [35], clause 20.4.1, sleep-mode-type of asm-capability-
info) to be applied during the sleep period indicated in 1 above. Either RIC POLICY or RIC CONTROL can be used.
> NOTE: After the configuration, the E2 node shall try to achieve the configured sleep mode behaviour if the conditions are met,
however, it is up to the E2 node to decide when and whether the configuration can be applied depending on the on-going traffic conditions within the E2 node. The E2 node reports if the sleep mode configuration is applied. The E2 node also report the related KPIs, as defined in clause 4.6.1.4.3, for Near-RT RIC to assess the performance changes comparing against the objectives and make further optimisation actions.

##### 4.6.2.4.2 UE context information from E2 nodes
See clause 4.6.1.4.2.

##### 4.6.2.4.3 Measurements from E2 nodes
See clause 4.6.1.4.3

##### 4.6.2.4.4 E2 node configuration
Cell level configuration parameters in order to configure UE measurements required for traffic steering and QoS/QoE optimization (see clause 4.1.4.4) for creating more sleeping opportunities to save energy while maintaining acceptable performance. O-RU and O-DU advanced sleep mode capabilities, as specified in O-RAN.WG4.MP.0-R003-v13 [35], clause 20.4.1, asm- capability-info, along with information about the mapping from cells to sector carriers and to O-RU are retrieved from O-DU in order to generate applicable and optimized energy saving related policies and controls.

### 4.6.3 RF channel reconfiguration

#### 4.6.3.1 Background and goal of the use case
In mobile networks, massive-MIMO array antennas are used to implement beamforming techniques, which boost the cell coverage, capacity, and spectrum efficiency for enhanced mobile broadband services. Due to the massive number of the active antenna elements and RF channels used in the massive-MIMO array, it can consume significantly more energy than conventional antenna solution. The goal of the RF channel reconfiguration energy saving use case is to reduce the power consumption of O- RUs for massive-MIMO by dynamically reconfiguring the number of active Tx/Rx array antenna elements. When the traffic load is low, fewer beams or MU-MIMO spatial layers are needed, therefore, fewer Tx/Rx array antenna elements can be active which can be reconfigured from Near-RT RIC dynamically leading to significant power savings. The number of active antenna element and the antenna element layout also have an impact to the signal coverage and spatial channel orthogonality translating to impact to the UE service of quality, which need to be handled by the Near-RT RIC to avoid the impact to the performance or finding the trade-off between energy saving and performance. The goal of Near-RT RIC energy saving is to interpret the policies received over A1 interface. Based on policy and the current or predicted traffic and channel conditions, the Near-RT RIC then derive the best choices for O-RU Tx/Rx array configurations including e.g. number of active antenna element, antenna element layout, SU/MU MIMO layers etc and provide guided configurations to the O-DU. Following the guidance, O-DU may decide to disable (“putting to sleep”) some or all array elements in a tx-array or rx-array (or both) accordingly via the O-FH C-plane in order to save energy (see O-RAN.WG4.CUS.0-R003-v14 [38], clause 7.2.9.2.3).

#### 4.6.3.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case
See clause 4.6.1.2.

#### 4.6.3.3 Solution
The context of energy saving RF channel reconfiguration optimization is captured in table 4.6.3.3-1. Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Drive energy saving RF channel reconfiguration optimization in accordance with Goal RAN OAM configured background behavior (ES mode 1) or policies information from the Non-RT RIC using A1 interface (ES mode 2).
- Non-RT RIC in SMO domain: Creates and updates A1 policies, provide A1
enrichment information.
- Near-RT RIC: Enforces A1 policies and generates RIC CONTROL and/or
POLICY. Actors and Roles
- E2 node: RIC CONTROL and POLICY execution and RIC REPORT
creation. Refer to 4.6.3.2 for more details. Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification
- All relevant functions and components are instantiated.
Assumptions - A1, O1 and E2 interface connectivity is established.
- A1 policy scope defined.
- Network is operational with default configuration.
- OAM functions have configured a baseline measurement configuration and
the Non-RT RIC has access to this data.
- OAM functions have configured baseline ES parameters in E2 node(s)
through O1 interface. Pre-conditions - (optional) If ES mode 1, OAM functions have configured background ES behavior to the Near-RT RIC through O1 interface.
- Non-RT RIC analyzes the historical data from RAN for training the relevant
AI/ML models to be deployed or updated in the Near-RT RIC, as well as AI/ML models required for non-real-time optimization of configuration and policies. Energy saving RF channel reconfiguration optimization is activated, or an Begins when operator defined trigger is detected. (Start of outer loop control) Step 1 (O) If ES mode 2, OAM functions collects data from E2 node through O1 interface. Step 2 (O) Non-RT RIC retrieve ES related performance data from OAM function. Non-RT RIC evaluates the collected data and A1 policy feedback, if required, Step 3 (O) and generates or updates the appropriate ES optimization policy, such as energy saving and performance, etc. Step 4 (O) Non-RT RIC sends the ES optimization policy to Near-RT RIC via A1 interface. Step 5 (O) Non-RT RIC sends optional ES related A1 enrichment information. Step 6 (O) If ES mode 1, Near-RT RIC collects data from E2 node through E2 interface. Near-RT RIC evaluates the collected data, if required, generates or updates Step 7 (O) the internal background mode ES optimization targets or policies. (Start of inner loop control) Step 8 (M) Near-RT RIC subscribes to a UE context information and measurement metrics via E2 interface. E2 nodes report the UE context information and E2 measurements via RIC Step 9 (M) REPORT periodically or event-triggered. Near-RT RIC evaluates the performance data from E2 nodes and finds potential Step 10 (M) improvements to energy efficiency or potential gap to A1 policy and/or internal Near-RT RIC ES targets. Based on evaluation in Step 10, Near-RT RIC may generate new or modify the existing E2 policies and sends them to E2 nodes. E2 node functions target of E2 policy may be:
- Connected mode mobility
Step 11 (O)
- Idle mode mobility
- Radio access control
- RF channel reconfiguration policy setting
- Common channel configurations (SSB, CSI-RS)
- TX/RX array configuration change
Near-RT RIC may also generate control command(s) and send them to E2 node(s) to trigger the reconfiguration of radio resources, traffic steering, reconfiguration of common channels and entering/leaving deep sleep mode. Step 12 (O) E2 node functions target of E2 control command may be:
- Same as Step 11
(End of inner loop control) For ES mode 2, Near RT-RIC may send A1 policy feedback on A1 to the Non- Step 13 (O) RT RIC. (End of outer loop control) Non-RT RIC decides to delete ES optimization policy in case of ES mode 2 and Step 14 (O) sends the related messages. Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Following A1 policy deletion (mode 2) or internal trigger (mode 1), the Near-RT Step 15,16 (M) RIC terminates the ES optimization procedure and delete the related RIC subscriptions. Ends when ES optimization is deactivated, or an operator defined trigger is detected. Exceptions None. Post Conditions Energy saving over a period of time is achieved. REQ-Near-RT-RIC-ES-FUN1, REQ-Near-RT-RIC-ES-FUN2, REQ-Near-RT- RIC-ES-FUN3, REQ-Near-RT-RIC-ES-FUN5, REQ-Near-RT-RIC-ES-FUN6, Traceability REQ-E2-ES-FUN2, REQ-E2-ES-FUN4, REQ-E2-ES-FUN6, REQ-E2-ES- FUN7 Box “Service Management and Orchestration” #gold Box “O-RAN” #lightpink OAM <--> ran : (Mode 2) <<O1>> RAN Data collection end end The flow diagram of the energy saving RF channel reconfiguration optimization is given in figure 4.6.3.3-1.

#### 4.6.3.4 Required data
This clause elaborates the Near-RT RIC and the E2 node capabilities necessary for implementation of the ES RF channel reconfiguration use case. The requirements are specified in clause 4.

##### 4.6.3.4.1 Control over E2
1) Radio access control: See clause 4.6.2.4.1. 2) Mobility control: See clause 4.6.2.4.1. 3) NES related radio resource control: See clause 4.6.2.4.1 4) TRX control performance objectives: Configuration of TRX control performance objectives to the E2 node which can include:
- Energy saving target, e.g. targeted energy saving in percentage of current average energy consumption or energy saving
levels (e.g., maximum energy saving, medium energy saving, maximum performance, etc.).
- UE or cell level performance targets, e.g., throughput cap, throughput drop tolerance, latency target.
Either RIC POLICY or RIC CONTROL can be used.
> NOTE: After the objectives are configured, the E2 node shall try to achieve the objectives, however, whether the objectives can
be met depends on the real traffic conditions and E2 node implementations. The E2 node reports if the TRX control objective is applied and taken into operation. The E2 node also reports the related KPIs, as defined in clause 4.6.1.4.3, for Near-RT RIC to assess the performance changes comparing against the objectives and make further optimisation actions. 5) TRX control configuration: Depending upon the current and future traffic predictions, the Near-RT-RIC may guide the O- DU to perform O-RU RF channel reconfigurations to reduce the overall power consumption of the O-RU. Following the guidance, O-DU may decide to disable (“putting to sleep”) some or all array elements in a tx-array or rx-array (or both) accordingly via the O-FH C-plane in order to save energy (O-RAN.WG4.CUS.0-R003-v14 [38], Table 7.4.6-7). The guided configurations can include:
- Indication of the slot numbers, symbol numbers and the conditions for the TRX control configuration to be applied.
- Indication of the array elements to be switched off during the period indicated above based on the TRX control capability
information reported by the E2 node (O-DU), see clause 4.6.3.4.4. The capability information includes antenna mask values supported by the O-RU, see O-RAN.WG4.MP.0-R003-v14 [39], clause 20.3.1, trx-control-capability-info, for more details.
- The sleep mode (see O-RAN.WG4.MP.0-R003-v14 [39], clause 20.3.1, sleep-mode-type of trx-control-capability-info)
to be applied during the sleep period indicated above. Either RIC POLICY or RIC CONTROL can be used.
> NOTE: After the configuration, the E2 node shall try to achieve the configured behaviour if the conditions are met, however, it
is up to the E2 node to decide when and whether the configuration can be applied depending on the on-going traffic conditions within the E2 node. The E2 node reports if the TRX control configuration is applied. The E2 node also report the related KPIs, as defined in clause 4.6.1.4.3, for Near-RT RIC to assess the performance changes comparing against the objectives and make further optimisation actions. Both RIC POLICY and RIC CONTROL can be used.

##### 4.6.3.4.2 UE context information from E2 nodes
See clause 4.6.1.4.2.

##### 4.6.3.4.3 Measurements from E2 nodes
See clause 4.6.1.4.3.

##### 4.6.3.4.4 E2 node configuration
Cell level configuration parameters in order to configure UE measurements required for traffic steering and QoS/QoE optimization (see clause 4.1.4.4) for creating more RF channel reconfiguration opportunities to save energy while maintaining acceptable performance. O-RU and O-DU TRX control capabilities, see O-RAN.WG4.MP.0-R003-v14 [39], clause 20.3.1, trx-control-capability-info, along with information about the mapping from cells to sector carriers and to O-RU are retrieved from O-DU in order to generate applicable and optimized energy saving related policies and controls.

### 4.6.4 PRB blanking optimization

#### 4.6.4.1 Background and goal of the use case
Blanking the PRBs saves power in many components in the O-RU due to the reduced input/output power and processing load. In addition, PRB blanking is being supported in clause 8.4.2 of WG4 Control, User and Synchronization Plane Specification as Data blanking [38] to meet objectives such as energy saving. Specifically, in clause 8.4.2.2, it said “PRB blanking is an inherent feature of the frequency-domain-based fronthaul split 7-2x, where unallocated PRBs are not sent across the fronthaul interface to reduce the fronthaul throughput. An unallocated PRB is a PRB with all REs unallocated”. Currently, an O-DU can blank the PRBs during scheduling taking local performance targets such as energy consumption into consideration, and then signal the blanked or activated PRBs to O-RU via C-plane Section Type 1 messages. However, the Near-RT RIC is not able to send configurations/policies regarding PRBs to be blanked to an O-DU to influence the MAC scheduler behaviours for optimizing PRB allocations to meet different performance targets in a network with multiple cells. PRB blanking has also been leveraged to achieve interference optimization in a network with multiple cells as specified in use case 26 of WG1 Use Cases Detailed Specification R004 v15.00.01 [49]. PRB blanking optimization by the Near-RT RIC can consider overall network performance improvements for both uplink and downlink including energy efficiency with system-level optimization instead of local-level optimization by an O-DU alone. Furthermore, the AI/ML models' functionality in the Near-RT RIC can include prediction of future traffic, user mobility, resource usage, QoS and QoE on a per UE basis and may also predict expected energy efficiency enhancements, resource usage, network performance and interference reduction for different PRB blanking optimization options. Based on the predicted results, optimized PRBs blanking control actions or policies can be given by the Near-RT RIC to E2 nodes in near-real-time manner. The Near-RT RIC sends the two-dimensional (in both frequency and time domains) PRB blanking configurations or policies for uplink and/or downlink to each O-DU to consider for cells of interest in a multi-cell environment based on the evaluation of performance measurements collected and performance targets required. The performance measurements collected include e.g., EC, EE achieved, QoS including throughput and latency as well as interference. The performance targets include e.g., EC, EE, QoS and interference reduction. The Near-RT RIC decides the two-dimensional PRB blanking configurations or policies which include how many PRBs to blank and where those PRBs are in the frequency and time domain based on the trade-off analysis. The O-DU takes the PRB blanking configurations or policies as an input for its scheduler to make final resource allocations decision.

#### 4.6.4.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case
1) Near-RT RIC: a) Receive PRB blanking optimization xApps. b) Monitor performance measurements in EE, QoS and interference. c) Perform optimized RAN (E2) actions to achieve performance targets based on E2 reports. 2) E2 node: a) Support PRB blanking optimization actions or policy enforcements via E2. b) Support PRB blanking optimization related performance reports through E2.

#### 4.6.4.3 Solution
The context of PRB blanking optimization is captured in table 4.6.4.3-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Drive PRB blanking optimization in accordance with information from the E2 Goal nodes.
- Near-RT RIC: Generates RIC CONTROL and/or POLICY.
Actors and Roles - E2 node: RIC CONTROL and POLICY execution and RIC REPORT creation.
- All relevant functions and components are instantiated.
Assumptions
- E2 interface connectivity is established.
Pre-conditions - Network is operational with default configuration. PRB blanking optimization for performance targets including ES is activated, or Begins when an operator defined trigger is detected. Near RT RIC generates or updates the appropriate PRB blanking optimization Step 1 (M) policy such as data to collect as well as performance targets including ES. Step 2 (M) Near-RT RIC collects data from E2 node through E2 interface. Step 3 (M) Near-RT RIC evaluates the collected data. Near-RT RIC subscribes to a UE context information and measurement metrics Step 4 (M) via E2 interface. E2 nodes report the UE context information and E2 measurements via RIC Step 5 (M) REPORT or INDICATION. Near-RT RIC evaluates the data from E2 nodes and finds potential performance Step 6 (M) improvements including ES which are indicated in the performance targets. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Near-RT RIC generates two-dimensional PRB blanking optimization control and sends them to E2 node(s) or generates PRB blanking optimization policy so that Steps 7, 8 (O) the overall network performance including ES can be optimized. PRB blanking optimization is deactivated, or an operator defined trigger is Step 9 (M) detected. Step 10 (M) RIC SUBSCRIPTION DELETE Ends when PRB blanking optimization stops. Exceptions None. Post Conditions PRB blanking optimization over a period of time is achieved. REQ-Near-RT-RIC-ES-FUN7 REQ-E2-QoS-FUN1, REQ-E2-QoS-FUN2, REQ-E2-QoS-FUN3, REQ-E2- Traceability QoS-FUN4, QoS-FUN7, QoS-FUN8, REQ-E2-ES-FUN2, REQ-E2-ES-FUN8, REQ-E2-ES-FUN9 Box “O-RAN” #lightpink policy The flow diagram of the performance targets optimization including ES by PRB blanking optimization is given in figure 4.6.4.3- 1.

#### 4.6.4.4 Required data
This clause elaborates the Near-RT RIC and the E2 node capabilities necessary for implementation of the PRB blanking optimization use case. The requirements are specified in clause 5.

##### 4.6.4.4.1 Control over E2
1) Radio resource allocation. Near-RT RIC provides direct control for PRB blanking configurations to be applied at the E2 node. Configurations at cell level include:
- Configurations of two-dimensional PRBs to be blanked which is defined as configurations of PRB number to be
blanked in the frequency domain within a time slot, and in the time domain across time slots. Both RIC POLICY and RIC CONTROL can be used. 2) PRB blanking policy. Near-RT RIC provides policies to E2 node that describe ES target and other performance related targets the PRB blanking policies should achieve. The targets for performance objectives to the E2 node may include:
- Energy saving target, e.g., targeted energy saving in percentage of current average energy consumption or energy saving
levels (e.g., maximum energy saving, medium energy saving, maximum performance, etc.).
- Cell level and UE performance targets, e.g. throughput cap, throughput drop tolerance, latency target.
- Interference reduction target.
- Preferred number of active or blanked PRBs.
Either RIC POLICY or RIC CONTROL can be used.

##### 4.6.4.4.2 UE context information from E2 nodes
The followings are examples of UE context information identified as required:
- UE ID (as defined in [24])
- Slice level: S-NSSAI
- DRB level: e.g., established DRB ID, mapping with QoS flows, etc.
- QoS related: e.g., E-RAB Level QoS Parameters (4G, NSA) or QoS Flow Level QoS Parameters (NG-RAN).
- UE capabilities: CA and DC capabilities

##### 4.6.4.4.3 Measurements from E2 nodes
The E2 measurements are necessary for inference and prediction in the Near-RT RIC as the driver for decisions in addition to KPMs. For the PRB blanking optimization use case, the Near-RT RIC evaluates performance measurements and performance targets and then produces E2 controls (e.g., PRB blanking configurations or policies) by considering the RAN resource utilization, cell level and the UE level performance, the radio and traffic conditions, QoS and QoE requirements, energy consumption and efficiency and interference, etc. The examples of measurement information identified as required are listed in table 4.6.4.4.3-1. Measurement Measurement Examples Type
- DL/UL Total PRB Usage, Distribution of DL/UL Total PRB Usage, DL/UL GBR PRB
Usage, DL/UL non-GBR PRB Usage, RRC Connection Number, Available RRC Connection Capacity Value, Mean and Maximum Number of Active UEs per DRB in the DL/UL, DL/UL Scheduling PDCCH CCE Usage, DL/UL Composite Available Capacity, DL/UL Cell PDCP SDU Data Volume (including secondary RAT usage for EN-DC/MR- DC), Handover success ratio Cell/SSB area - DL/UL SSB Area Total PRB Usage, DL/UL SSB Area GBR PRB Usage, DL/UL SSB related Area non-GBR PRB Usage, SSB Area Capacity Value measurements - DL/UL PRB usage per QCI, DL/UL PRB usage per 5QI, DL/UL PRB usage per slice, Slice Available Capacity Value
- UL interference per cell
- UL interference per PRB per cell
- UL interference per PRB per antenna branch per cell
As specified in 3GPP TS 38.314 [16], 3GPP TS 38.463 [20], 3GPP TS 38.473 [21], 3GPP TS 38.423 [19]
- Average DL/UL throughput
- DL/UL PRB usage
E2 node user plane
- DL/UL Scheduled IP throughput
measurements per-
- Buffer Status Information (e.g., UL BSR)
UE/UE group As specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], 3GPP TS 38.314 [16], 3GPP TS 38.423 [19], 3GPP TS 38.473 [21], 3GPP TS 38.463 [20], 3GPP TS 38.321 [17]
- RSRP, SS-RSRP and RSRQ measurements
- SINR measurements
- CQI measurements
UE L1/L2/L3
- MCS measurements
measurements
- Location and Velocity measurements
- Timing advance measurements
As specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18], 3GPP TS 28.552 [6] Energy consumption measurement of O-RU Energy
- PNF Power Consumption (average/min/max)
consumption
- PNF Energy Consumption (average/min/max)
measurement As specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6] Mobility and RA related KPIs/measurements from the E2 nodes hosting the target NES cell(s) and/or the neighbour cell(s) to the target NES cell(s) Mobility and RA related - Handover failure related, e.g., number of handover failures related to MRO KPIs/measurements - RACH failure related, e.g., distribution of RACH access delay of UE/UE group - Radio link failure reports
- UE context release related, e.g., number of UE context release requests
As specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18], 3GPP 28.552 [6]

##### 4.6.4.4.4 E2 node configuration
Cell level configuration parameters are needed at Near-RT RIC to support PRB blanking optimization. O-RU and O-DU TRX control capabilities, see O-RAN.WG4.MP.0-R003-v14 [39], clause 20.3.1, trx-control-capability-info, along with information about the mapping from cells to sector carriers and to O-RU are retrieved from O-DU to generate applicable and optimized performance including energy saving related policies and controls.

# 5 Requirements

## 5.1 Functional requirements

### 5.1.1 Near-RT RIC generic functional requirements
The Near-RT RIC functional requirements are captured in table 5.1.1-1. REQ Description Note Near-RT RIC shall be able to use traffic steering-related A1 policies REQ-Near-RT-RIC-TS-FUN1 to determine and execute appropriate E2 actions. Near-RT RIC shall be able to use traffic steering-related A1 REQ-Near-RT-RIC-TS-FUN2 enrichment information, e.g., the radio finger print information, to determine and execute appropriate E2 actions. Near-RT RIC shall support training of massive MIMO-related REQ-Near-RT-RIC-MM-FUN1 models in xApps. Near-RT RIC shall support deployment of massive MIMO-related REQ-Near-RT-RIC-MM-FUN2 trained models in xApps . Near-RT RIC shall be able to use massive MIMO-related A1 REQ-Near-RT-RIC-MM-FUN3 enrichment information, e.g., location and mobility information, to determine and execute appropriate E2 actions. Near-RT RIC shall be able to collect the observation and measurement data pertaining to CSI-Feedback and traffic load REQ-Near-RT-RIC-MM-FUN4 information of UEs, which are subsequently processed, aggregated and reported over O1 interface to the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework. REQ-Near-RT-RIC-QOE- Near-RT RIC shall be able to generate QoE related RAN analytics FUN1 information and expose it to RAI service consumer. Near-RT RIC shall be able to use energy saving-related A1 policies REQ-Near-RT-RIC-ES-FUN1 and enrichment information, e.g., the radio finger print information, to determine and execute appropriate E2 actions. Near-RT RIC shall be able to trigger necessary energy saving REQ-Near-RT-RIC-ES-FUN2 related actions based on the configuration from O1 interface. Near-RT RIC shall be able to handle mobility of users to account REQ-Near-RT-RIC-ES-FUN3 for potential coverage loss directly or indirectly via guidance to the E2 node. Near-RT RIC shall be able to handle radio access and mobility REQ-Near-RT-RIC-ES-FUN4 controls as described in clause 4.6.2.4.1 to create more ASM sleep opportunities on the targeted cells. Near-RT RIC shall support handling radio access to restrict access REQ-Near-RT-RIC-ES-FUN5 of UEs for a specific cell. Near-RT RIC shall support handling mobility control to reduce REQ-Near-RT-RIC-ES-FUN6 traffic load. Near-RT RIC shall support PRB blanking optimization to optimize REQ-Near-RT-RIC-ES-FUN7 the performance in ES.

### 5.1.2 E2 interface functional requirements
The E2 interface functional requirements are captured in table 5.1.2-1. REQ Description Note E2 shall support retrieval over E2 (read or receive via REPORT) of the following:
- Cell level configuration parameters, such as PCI, neighbor
REQ-E2-TS-FUN1 relations and related offsets for measurement, cell reselection and handover, etc. Supported REPORT triggers shall include:
- Modification of the configuration parameters
E2 shall support the configuration (including range and granularity) and retrieval of cell/SSB area or slice related measurements in the nomenclature as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], 3GPP TS 36.314 [9], 3GPP TS 36.423 [12], 3GPP TS 38.314 [16], 3GPP TS 38.423 [19], 3GPP TS 38.463 [20] and 3GPP TS 38.473 [21]. These include:
- DL/UL Total PRB Usage, Distribution of DL/UL Total PRB
Usage, DL/UL GBR PRB Usage, DL/UL total available PRB, DL/UL non-GBR PRB Usage, RRC Connection Number, Available RRC Connection Capacity Value, Mean and Maximum Number of Active UEs in the DL/UL per DRB, DL/UL Scheduling PDCCH CCE Usage, DL/UL Composite Available Capacity, DL/UL Cell PDCP SDU Data Volume REQ-E2-TS-FUN2 (including secondary RAT usage for EN-DC/MR-DC), Handover success ratio
- DL/UL SSB Area Total PRB Usage, DL/UL SSB Area GBR
PRB Usage, DL/UL SSB Area non-GBR PRB Usage, SSB Area Capacity Value
- DL/UL PRB usage per QCI, DL/UL PRB usage per 5QI,
DL/UL PRB usage per slice, Slice Available Capacity Value See NOTE 1. Supported REPORT triggers shall include:
- Availability of new information e.g., new load measurement
generated
- Threshold crossing
E2 shall support the configuration and retrieval of E2-node user plane measurements per-UE / UE group, in the nomenclature as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], 3GPP TS 36.314 [9], 3GPP TS 36.321 [10], 3GPP TS 38.314 [16], 3GPP TS 38.321 [17], 3GPP TS 38.423 [19], 3GPP TS 38.463 [20] and 3GPP TS 38.473 [21], e.g.:
- Average DL/UL throughput
REQ-E2-TS-FUN3
- DL/UL PRB usage
- Buffer Status Information (e.g., UL BSR)
Supported REPORT triggers shall include:
- Availability of new information e.g., new load measurement
generated
- Threshold crossing
E2 shall support the configuration and retrieval of UE L1/L2/L3 measurements reported by individual UE, e.g.:
- RSRP and RSRQ measurements
- SINR measurements
REQ-E2-TS-FUN4 - CQI/MCS measurements Supported REPORT triggers shall include:
- Availability of new information e.g., reception of RRC
measurement reports. E2 shall support the control of EN-DC/MR-DC function in E2 nodes, including the configuration of the relevant parameters for REQ-E2-TS-FUN5 EN-DC/MR-DC procedures, e.g.
- X2 SgNB addition
- X2 SgNB modification
REQ Description Note
- X2 SgNB release
- X2 SgNB change
- PSCell change
- Inter-master node handover
and UE level cell preference guidance for EN-DC/MR-DC, e.g.:
- Ordered list of target cells for SgNB addition and change.
INSERT/CONTROL and POLICY shall be supported in order to trigger the operation by a RAN event, as well as REPORT/CONTROL for Near-RT RIC to trigger the operation asynchronously where appropriate E2 shall support the control of handover function in E2 nodes, including the configuration of the relevant parameters for handover procedures, e.g.:
- Intra-frequency/inter-frequency/inter-RAT handover
- Intra/inter-eNB/gNB handover
REQ-E2-TS-FUN6 and UE level cell preference guidance for handover, e.g.:
- Ordered list of target cells for handover
INSERT/CONTROL and POLICY shall be supported in order to trigger the operation by a RAN event, as well as REPORT/CONTROL for Near-RT RIC to trigger the operation asynchronously where appropriate E2 shall support the control of carrier aggregation function in E2 nodes, including the configuration of the relevant parameters for CA procedures (e.g., addition, modification and release of a component carrier) and UE level cell preference guidance for CA (e.g., ordered list of target cells for SCell addition/modification) REQ-E2-TS-FUN7 INSERT/CONTROL and POLICY shall be supported in order to trigger the operation by a RAN event, as well as REPORT/ CONTROL for Near-RT RIC to trigger the operation asynchronously E2 shall support the control of idle mode mobility function in E2 nodes, including the configuration of the relevant parameters for idle mode procedures (e.g., intra-frequency/inter-frequency/inter- RAT cell reselection priority) REQ-E2-TS-FUN8 INSERT/CONTROL and POLICY shall be supported in order to trigger the operation by a RAN event, as well as REPORT/CONTROL for RIC to trigger the operation asynchronously E2 shall support the fetching of UE information including e.g.:
- UE ID as specified in [32]
- S-NSSAI
REQ-E2-TS-FUN9
- QCI/5QI,
- UE capabilities (DC/CA)
- Active DRBs/QoS flows
E2 shall support the configuration and retrieval of measurements related to UE location and velocity that are reported by an individual UE, e.g.:
- LocationInfo, CommonLocationInfo
REQ-E2-TS-FUN10 Supported REPORT triggers shall include:
- Availability of new information e.g., reception of RRC
measurement reports. REQ Description Note E2 interface shall support retrieval of the UE context related Applicable information from E2 nodes: RIC services:
- UE ID as specified in [32]
- Slicing info, such as S-NSSAI REPORT
- QoS info, such as E-RAB level QoS parameters (4G, NSA)
or QoS flow level QoS parameters (NG-RAN) REQ-E2-QoS-FUN1 • Radio bearers related info, such as established DRB ID, flow-to-DRB mapping
- RLC/MAC/PHY related info, such as LCID, scheduling
related parameters
- UE capability info, such as CA (carrier aggregation) and DC
(dual connectivity) capabilities E2 interface shall support retrieval of the following measurements Applicable info from E2 nodes: RIC services:
- UE-level
- Radio channel info available at DU: CQI (as specified REPORT
in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6])
- Radio channel info available at CU-CP for serving
cell: RSRP, RSRQ, SINR (as specified in 3GPP TS 36.331 [11] and 3GPP TS 38.331 [18]), including from periodical and/or event triggered measurement report (A1-A6, B1-B2).
- Radio channel info available at CU-CP for
neighboring cells: RSRP, RSRQ, SINR (as specified in 3GPP TS 36.331 [11] and 3GPP TS 38.331 [18]), including from periodical and/or event triggered measurement report (A1-A6, B1-B2).
- Layer-2: DL/UL UE PRB used for data traffic, Average
DL UE throughput in gNB, Distribution of DL UE throughput in gNB, Percentage of unrestricted DL UE data volume in gNB, Packet Delay and RAN part packet delay components, Packet Delay, Data Volume (as specified in 3GPP TS 36.314 [9]), DL PDCP occupied buffer size, DL unused PDCP buffer size, Packet Loss Rate per DRB (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.314 [16]) and REQ-E2-QoS-FUN2 per logical channel
- Cell-level
- Layer-2: CQI, MCS Distribution in PDSCH, DL/UL Total
PRB usage, Distribution of DL/UL Total PRB usage, DL/UL PRB used for data traffic, DL/UL Total available PRB, Total number of DL/UL TBs, Total error number of DL/UL TBs, Average DL UE throughput in gNB, Distribution of DL UE throughput in gNB, Percentage of unrestricted DL UE data volume in gNB, Packet Delay, Mean number of Active UEs in the DL/UL per cell, Max number of Active UEs in the DL/UL per cell (as specified so far in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6]), DL/UL PRB usage for traffic, DL/UL Total PRB usage, Distribution of DL/UL Total PRB usage, DL/UL PRB full utilization, Total number of DL/UL TBs, Total error number of DL/UL TBs, Average number of Active UEs (as specified so far in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7]), RAN part packet delay components (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.314 [16]), Packet Delay (as specified in 3GPP TS 36.314 [9]), DL/UL Cell PDCP SDU Data Volume, Packet Loss Rate, DL Packet Drop Rate (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6] and 3GPP TS 32.425 [7]) REQ Description Note E2 interface shall support the control of radio bearer related Applicable functions in E2 nodes, including configuration/modification of the RIC services: following:
- DRB QoS (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.473 [21] and 3GPP CONTROL
TS 23.501 [3]) POLICY
- QoS flow mapping (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.473 [21])
- Logical channel configuration (as specified in 3GPP TS
38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]) REQ-E2-QoS-FUN3
- Radio admission control (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331
[18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11])
- Change of bearer termination point (MN or SN) and/or
bearer types (MCG/SCG/split) (as specified in 3GPP TS 37.340 [13]); Control of split ratio for a split bearer; Control of packet duplication and number of legs (as specified in 3GPP TS 36.300 [8] and 3GPP TS 38.300 [14]) E2 interface shall support the control of resource allocation Applicable function in E2 nodes, including configuration/modification of the RIC services: following:
- DRX parameters (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.473 [21], CONTROL
3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]) such as POLICY long DRX cycle, short DRX cycle, short DRX timer.
- SR (scheduling request) periodicity (as specified in 3GPP
TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]) such as sr- REQ-E2-QoS-FUN4 ProhibitTimer, sr-TransMax.
- SPS (semi-persistent scheduling) parameters (as specified
in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]), such as SPS-Config (DL) and ConfiguredGrantConfig (UL)
- Slice level PRB quota (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.541 [4])
- CQI table (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.214 [15]) with target
block error rate E2 interface shall support the control of radio access related Applicable functions in E2 nodes, including configuration/modification of the RIC services: following: REQ-E2-QoS-FUN5 • Access control (cell-level, UE-level, slice-level), such as CONTROL RACH backoff, RRC connection reject, RRC connection POLICY release, access barring, etc. E2 interface shall support the control of mobility management Applicable function in E2 nodes, including configuration/modification of the RIC services: following:
- Handover CONTROL
- Handover restriction list POLICY
- Carrier aggregation (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.473 [21],
REQ-E2-QoS-FUN6 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11])
- MR-DC, including (NG)EN-DC, NE-DC, NR-DC (as
specified in 3GPP TS 38.473 [21], 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]) E2 interface shall support the control of uplink power control Applicable function in E2 nodes, including configuration/modification of the RIC services: following: REQ-E2-QoS-FUN7
- Target value of uplink received quality such as received CONTROL
SINR or received power at E2 node POLICY REQ Description Note E2 interface shall support retrieval of configuration of uplink Applicable transmit power from E2 node: RIC services:
- Cell specific transmit power (TS38.331 [19]), PUSCH-
ConfigCommon. REPORT REQ-E2-QoS-FUN8
- UE specific transmit power (TS 38.331 [19]), PUSCH- QUERY
PowerControl. Target value of uplink received quality such as received SINR or received power at E2 node E2 shall support retrieval over E2 (read or receive via REPORT) of the following:
- Cell level and/or slice level configuration parameters
REQ-E2-SLA-FUN1 Supported REPORT triggers shall include:
- Modification of cell level and/or slice configuration
parameters E2 shall support the configuration (including range and Applicable granularity) and retrieval of cell or slice related measurements in RIC services: the nomenclature as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], 3GPP TS 36.314 [9], 3GPP TS 36.423 [12], 3GPP TS REPORT 38.314 [16], 3GPP TS 38.423 [19], 3GPP TS 38.463 [20] and 3GPP TS 38.473 [21]. These include:
- DL/UL Total PRB Usage, Distribution of DL/UL Total PRB
Usage, DL/UL total available PRB, RRC Connection Number, REQ-E2-SLA-FUN2 Available RRC Connection Capacity Value, Mean and Maximum Number of Active UEs in the DL/UL per DRB
- DL/UL PRB usage per slice, Slice Available Capacity Value
Supported REPORT triggers shall include:
- Availability of new information e.g., new load measurement
generated
- Threshold crossing
E2 shall support the fetching of UE information including e.g.: Applicable
- UE ID RIC services:
REQ-E2-SLA-FUN3
- PLMN, S-NSSAI(s)
- DRB related information REPORT
E2 interface shall support the configuration and retrieval of Applicable individual UE measurements, including the following: RIC services: REQ-E2-SLA-FUN4
- RSRP, RSRQ
- CQI REPORT
E2 interface shall support the control of slice resource allocation Applicable in E2 nodes, including configuration/modification of the following: RIC services:
- Per-slice dedicated PRB allocation percentages for downlink
and uplink REPORT
- Per-slice maximum PRB allocation percentages for downlink CONTROL
REQ-E2-SLA-FUN5 and uplink
- Per-UE-per-slice maximum PRB allocation percentages for
downlink and uplink
- Per-slice indication of resource sharing allowance to achieve
utilization of unused slice resources by other network slices
- Per-slice priority values to achieve scheduling prioritization
among network slices with different priorities E2 interface shall support the slice-level control of radio resource Applicable management related functions in E2 nodes, including the RIC services: REQ-E2-SLA-FUN6 following:
- Slice based radio admission control CONTROL
- Slice based radio bearer control POLICY
E2 shall support retrieval over E2 of the following: Applicable
- Beam level configuration parameters, such as beam pattern RIC services:
information (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.541 [5], clause REQ-E2-MM-FUN1 4.3.40) REPORT,
- O-RU antenna information (as specified in O- QUERY
RAN.WG4.MP.0-R003-v13 [35], clause D.3.8) REQ Description Note
- O-DU supported compression methods (as specified in O-
RAN.WG4.CUS.0-R003-v13 [34], clause 7.7.1.2)
- Served cell information (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.473 [21],
clause 9.3.1.10)
- MIB (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18], clause 6.2.2)
- SSB information of the serving cell (as specified in 3GPP TS
38.331 [18], clause 6.2.2) Supported REPORT triggers shall include: Modification of the configuration parameters E2 shall support retrieval from E2 node of DL L1 measurements Applicable reported by individual UE, e.g.: RIC services:
- RSRP-SS measurements (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.133
[26] and 3GPP TS 38.215 [27]) REPORT
- SINR-SS measurements (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.133
[26] and 3GPP TS 38.215 [27])
- PMI, RI, CQI (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.212 [43], clause
6.3)
- CSI-RSRP, CSI-RSRQ, CSI-SINR (as specified in 3GPP TS
REQ-E2-MM-FUN2 38.912 [46], clause 8.1.2.6.3, 3GPP TS 38.331 [18], clause 5.5.5.2, 3GPP TS 38.215 [27], clause 5.1, 3GPP TS 38.214 [15], clause 5.2.2)
- QCL type between SSB and CSI-RS (as specified in 3GPP
TS 38.214 [15], clause 5.1.5)
- QCL type between CSI-RS and DMRS (as specified in
3GPP TS 38.214 [15], clause 5.1.5) Supported REPORT triggers shall include: Availability of new information E2 shall support retrieval from E2 node of UL L1 measurements Applicable reported for individual UE, e.g.: RIC services:
- SRS RSRP measurements (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.133
REQ-E2-MM-FUN3 [26] and 3GPP TS 38.215 [27]) REPORT Supported REPORT triggers shall include: Availability of new information E2 shall support retrieval from E2 node of L3 mobility Applicable measurements reported per beam/beam group, e.g.: RIC services:
- Number of too early HOs (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552
[6]) REPORT
- Number of too late HOs (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6])
- Number of HOs to wrong cell (as specified in 3GPP TS
28.552 [6])
- Number of requested legacy HO executions (HO attempts)
(as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6])
- Number of successful legacy HO executions (as specified in
REQ-E2-MM-FUN4 3GPP TS 28.552 [6])
- Number of failed legacy HO executions (as specified in 3GPP
TS 28.552 [6])
- Per UE event mobility failure indication with root cause (too
early HO, too late HO, HO to wrong cell) and number of requested or number of successful HO executions at the time of failure Supported REPORT triggers shall include
- For mobility KPIs, periodic reporting
For mobility failure indication, message event trigger E2 shall support retrieval of UE context information from E2 node Applicable for individual UE, e.g.: RIC services: REQ-E2-MM-FUN5 - UE ID
- UE capabilities (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18], clause REPORT, QUERY
6.2.2) REQ Description Note
- SRS Configuration (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18],
clause 6.2.2)
- RRC State
- CSI Measurement configuration (as specified in 3GPP TS
38.331 [18], clause 6.3.2)
- Measurement Gap configuration (as specified in 3GPP TS
38.331 [18], clause 6.3.2)
- BWP DL/UL configurations (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331
[18], clause 6.3.2)
- DRB related info, such as established DRB ID, flow-to-DRB
mapping, RLC Mode, LCID (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.473 [21], clause 9.2.2.1)
- PDSCH of serving cell configuration (as specified in 3GPP
TS 38.331 [18], clause 6.3.2)
- DRX Configuration (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18],
clause 6.3.2) Supported REPORT triggers shall include: Configuration or reconfiguration of the UE context information E2 interface shall support the control of beamforming in E2 nodes, Applicable including the following: RIC services:
- Configuration of non-Grid of beams beamforming mode,
REQ-E2-MM-FUN6 separately for single user- and multi-user MIMO, on a per-UE CONTROL basis POLICY E2 interface shall support the control of L3 mobility configuration Applicable in E2 nodes, including the following: RIC services: REQ-E2-MM-FUN7 Cell Individual Offset (CIO), Time To Trigger (TTT), UE Timer 310 (T310) on a per beam/beam group, per UE/UE group basis (as POLICY specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18]) E2 interface shall support the configuration of beam grouping Applicable information in E2 nodes, including the following: RIC services: REQ-E2-MM-FUN8 List of beam group IDs with associated beam IDs POLICY E2 shall support request and reporting of the number of supported Applicable non-GoB BF modes in O-DU RIC services: REQ-E2-MM-FUN9 QUERY E2 shall support retrieval from E2 node of average DL/UL per-UE Applicable throughput in gNB with associated non-GoB BF mode and MIMO RIC services: REQ-E2-MM-FUN10 mode (SU/MU) REPORT E2 shall support retrieval from E2 node of DL L1 and L2 Applicable information reported for individual UE, e.g.: RIC services:
- PDCP buffer status (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.323 [40],
clause 5.6) REPORT
- RLC buffer status (as specified in 3GPP TS 25.321 [41],
clause 8.2.2) REQ-E2-MM-FUN11 - HARQ ACK/NACK/DTX counts
- SRS samples
- HARQ-specific Transport Block Size volume (as specified in
O-RAN WG3 E2SM-KPM [36], O-RAN WG3 E2SM-RC [37]) Supported REPORT triggers shall include: Periodic with a configured period E2 interface shall support the configuration of individual UE Applicable operation, including the following: RIC services:
- CSI resources (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18], clause
REQ-E2-MM-FUN12 6.3.2) CONTROL
- CSI reports (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18], clause
6.3.2) REQ Description Note
- SRS resources (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18], clause
6.3.2)
- PDSCH (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18], clause 6.3.2)
E2 shall support retrieval over E2 of the following: Applicable
- Timestamped slot numbers (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.473 RIC services:
[21], clause 9.3.1.171)
- Received time and processing time margin of the scheduling REPORT
REQ-E2-MM-FUN13 control message Supported REPORT triggers shall include: Periodic with a configured period Applicable E2 interface shall support the configuration of the active bearers RIC services: REQ-E2-MM-FUN14 for which the Near-RT RIC will be providing the scheduling parameters CONTROL Applicable E2 interface shall support the control of scheduling parameters RIC services: REQ-E2-MM-FUN15 that enable MU-MIMO transmissions and the relevant MIMO parameters, of latency tolerant traffic per slot per UE. CONTROL E2 interface shall support the control of parameter configurations Applicable per-cell basis and per-UE basis for a sequence of slots in E2 RIC services: nodes, e.g.,
- Slot-specific DMRS configurations for a sequence of slots POLICY
REQ-E2-MM-FUN16
- Per-UE slot-specific GoB-based beam configuration (i.e., P2
beamforming-weights/beam-index, PMI, RI, LI, etc.) for a sequence of slots E2 shall support UE context information including e.g.:
- UE ID
REQ-E2-QoE-FUN1
- List of S-NSSAI
List of QoS related ID, e.g., 5QI, QFI E2 interface shall support retrieval of UE-level or cell-level measurement, including e.g.:
- Cell-level:
- Layer-2: MCS Distribution in PDSCH (as specified in
3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.12.1), DL/UL Total PRB usage (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.2.1 and 5.1.1.2.2 and in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clauses 4.5.3 and 4.5.4), Distribution of DL/UL Total PRB usage (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.2.3 and 5.1.1.2.4 and in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clauses 4.5.10 and 4.5.11), DL/UL PRB used for data traffic (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.2.5 and 5.1.1.2.7), DL/UL PRB usage for traffic (as specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clauses 4.5.1 and 4.5.2), DL/UL Total available PRB (as specified in 3GPP REQ-E2-QoE-FUN2 TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.2.6 and 5.1.1.2.8), DL/UL PRB full utilization (as specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clauses 4.5.9.1 and 4.5.9.2), Total number of DL/UL TBs (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.7.3 and 5.1.1.7.8 and in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clauses 4.5.7.1 and 4.5.7.3), Total error number of DL/UL TBs (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.7.4 and 5.1.1.7.9 and in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clauses 4.5.7.2 and 4.5.7.4), Average DL UE throughput in gNB (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.3.1), Distribution of DL UE throughput in gNB (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.3.2), Packet Delay (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.3.3), RAN part packet delay components (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.314 [16], clause 4.2.1.2), Packet Delay (as specified in 3GPP TS 36.314 [9], clause 4.1.4), DL/UL Cell PDCP SDU Data REQ Description Note Volume (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.2.1 for non-split gNB, clause 5.1.3.6.2 for split gNB; per PLMN ID and per E-RAB QoS profile (QCI, ARP and GBR), as specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clause 4.4.7), Mean number of Active UEs in the DL/UL per cell (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.23.1 and 5.1.1.23.3), Max number of Active UEs in the DL/UL per cell (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.23.2 and 5.1.1.23.4), Average number of Active UEs (as specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clause 4.4.2), Packet Loss Rate (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.3.1), Packet Loss Rate (as specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clause 4.4.4), DL Packet Drop Rate (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.3.2), DL Packet Drop Rate (as specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clause 4.4.3.2)
- UE-level
- Radio channel info: SINR (as specified in 3GPP TS
38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]), RSRP (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]), RSRQ (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11])
- Layer-2: CQI, MCS, DL/UL UE throughput, DL/UL UE
PRB usage, RLC buffer size, RLC occupied buffer, RLC unused buffer, UL/DL MAC rate, Packet Delay, Data volume (per UE, as specified in 3GPP TS 36.314 [9], clause 4.1.8 and 3GPP TS 38.314 [16]), Packet Loss Rate per DRB (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.314 [16], clause 4.2.1.5) and per UE, DL Packet Drop Rate, Total number of RLC SDUs/PDUs
- Slice-level
- Layer-2: DL/UL UE PRB usage, RLC buffer size, RLC
occupied buffer, RLC unused buffer, UL/DL MAC rate, Packet Delay, Data volume (per QCI/5QI, as specified in 3GPP TS 36.314 [9], clause 4.1.8 and 3GPP TS 38.314 [16]), Packet Loss Rate per DRB (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.314 [16], clause 4.2.1.5) and per UE, DL Packet Drop Rate (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.3.2), Total number of RLC SDUs/PDUs E2 interface shall support forwarding the guidance of cell and carrier switching off/on from the Near-RT RIC to the E2 node. REQ-E2-ES-FUN1 REPORT/CONTROL shall be supported for Near-RT RIC to trigger the operation asynchronously where appropriate E2 interface shall support the configuration and retrieval of REQ-E2-ES-FUN2 energy saving related measurement and cell state information from the E2 Node. E2 interface shall support forwarding the guidance of sleep mode REQ-E2-ES-FUN3 configurations as described in 4.6.2.4.1 from the Near-RT RIC to the E2 node. E2 interface shall support the control of NES related resource allocation function in E2 nodes including configuration/modification of the following:
- SR periodicity reconfiguration (as specified in 3GPP TS
38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]): Both sr- REQ-E2-ES-FUN4 ProhibitTimer and sr-TransMax can be treated.
- SPS configuration (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18]
and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]): Both SPS-Config (DL) and ConfiguredGrantConfig (UL) can be treated.
- CSI-RS periodicity configuration.
- Common channel periodicity configurations.
REQ Description Note E2 interface shall support the configuration of energy saving mode REQ-E2-ES-FUN5 objectives from the Near-RT RIC to the E2 node as described in clause 4.6.2.4.1. E2 interface shall support configuration of RF channel reconfiguration related NES parameters from the Near-RT RIC to the E2 node which includes:
- Indication of the array elements to be switched off during
sleep periods based on the TRX control capability information (see O-RAN.WG4.MP.0-R003-v14 [39], clause 20.3.1) reported by the E2 node (O-DU). REQ-E2-ES-FUN6
- Indication of the sleep mode (see O-RAN.WG4.MP.0-
R003-v14 [39], clause 20.3.1, sleep-mode-type of trx- control-capability-info) to be applied during sleep periods.
- Indication of the sleep periods, e.g. slot numbers, symbol
numbers and the conditions for triggering the sleep period. E2 interface shall support the configuration of RF channel reconfiguration related performance objectives from the Near-RT RIC to the E2 node. The performance objectives can include:
- Energy saving target, e.g. targeted energy saving in
percentage of current average energy consumption or REQ-E2-ES-FUN7 energy saving levels defined by operator (e.g. maximum energy saving, medium energy saving, maximum performance etc.).
- UE or cell level performance targets e.g. throughput cap,
throughput drop tolerance, latency target. E2 interface shall support forwarding the guidance of PRB REQ-E2-ES-FUN8 blanking optimization configurations or policies from the Near-RT RIC to the E2 node. E2 interface shall support the configuration of PRB blanking REQ-E2-ES-FUN9 optimization related performance objectives from the Near-RT RIC to the E2 node.
> NOTE 1: Time granularity of the measurements is not defined in the present document.

### 5.1.3 RAI exposure interface functional requirements
The RAI exposure interface functional requirements are captured in table 5.1.3-1. REQ Description Note RAI exposure interface shall support request for QoE related analytics REQ-RAI-QoE-FUN1 from RAI service consumers, with request scopes including:
- List of UE ID
RAI exposure interface shall support exposure to RAI service REQ-RAI-QoE-FUN2 consumers the following QoE related information: REQ Description Note Predicted RAN performance
- Minimum/maximum/average throughput
- Minimum/maximum/average latency
- Average packet loss rate
- QoE prediction
Prediction related information
- Confidence
- Validity period

## 5.2 Non-functional requirements

### 5.2.1 Near-RT RIC non-functional requirements
Void

### 5.2.2 E2 interface non-functional requirements
Void


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG3.TS.UCR-R004-v09.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG3.TS.UCR-R004-v09.00 Technical Specification O-RAN Work Group 3 (Near-Real-time RAN Intelligent"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions [given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1] and the following] apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1]. A1 policy: Type of declarative policies expressed using formal statements that enable the Non-RT RIC function in the SMO to guide the Near-RT RIC function, and hence the RAN, towards better fulfilment of the RAN intent. A1 enrichment information: Information utilized by Near-RT RIC that is collected or derived at SMO/Non-RT RIC either from non-network data sources or from network functions themselves. A1-policy based traffic steering process mode: An operational mode in which the Near-RT RIC is configured through A1 policy to use traffic steering actions to ensure a more specific notion of network performance (for example, applying to smaller groups of E2 nodes and UEs in the RAN) than that which it ensures in the background traffic steering. Background traffic steering processing mode: An operational mode in which the Near-RT RIC is configured through O1 to use traffic steering actions to ensure a general background network performance which applies broadly across E2 nodes and UEs in the RAN. Baseline RAN behavior: The default RAN behavior as configured at the E2 nodes by SMO. E2: Interface connecting the Near-RT RIC and one or more O-CU-CPs, one or more O-CU-UPs, one or more O-DUs, and one or more O-eNBs. E2 node: A logical node terminating E2 interface. In the present document, O-RAN nodes terminating E2 interface are:
- for NR access: O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU or any combination.
- for E-UTRA access: O-eNB.
FCAPS: Fault, Configuration, Accounting, Performance, Security. Intents: A declarative policy to steer or guide the behavior of RAN functions, allowing the RAN function to calculate the optimal result to achieve stated objective. Non-RT RIC (O-RAN Non-Real-Time RAN Intelligent Controller): A logical function that enables non-real-time control and optimization of RAN elements and resources, AI/ML workflow including model training and updates, and policy-based guidance of applications/features in Near-RT RIC. Near-RT RIC (O-RAN Near-Real-Time RAN Intelligent Controller): A logical function that enables near-real-time control and optimization of RAN elements and resources via fine-grained (e.g., UE basis, cell basis) data collection and actions over E2 interface. O-CU (O-RAN Central Unit): A logical node hosting RRC, SDAP and PDCP protocols. O-CU-CP (O-RAN Central Unit – Control Plane): A logical node hosting the RRC and the control plane part of the PDCP protocol. O-CU-UP (O-RAN Central Unit – User Plane): A logical node hosting the user plane part of the PDCP protocol and the SDAP protocol. O-DU (O-RAN Distributed Unit): A logical node hosting RLC/MAC/High-PHY layers based on a lower layer functional split. O-eNB (O-RAN eNB): An eNB or ng-eNB that supports E2 interface. O-RU (O-RAN Radio Unit): A logical node hosting Low-PHY layer and RF processing based on a lower layer functional split. This is similar to 3GPP’s “TRP” or “RRH” but more specific in including the Low-PHY layer (FFT/iFFT, PRACH extraction). O1: Interface between orchestration & management entities (orchestration/NMS) and O-RAN managed elements, for operation and management, by which FCAPS management, software management, file management and other similar functions can be achieved. RAN UE group: Aggregations of UEs whose grouping is set in the E2 nodes through E2 procedures also based on the scope of A1 policies. These groups can then be the target of E2 CONTROL or POLICY messages. Traffic steering action: The use of a mechanism to alter RAN behavior. Such actions include E2 procedures such as CONTROL and POLICY. Traffic steering inner loop: The part of the traffic steering processing, triggered by the arrival of periodic TS related KPM (Key Performance Measurement) from E2 node, which includes UE grouping, setting additional data collection from the RAN, as well as selection and execution of one or more optimization actions to enforce traffic steering policies. Traffic steering outer loop: The part of the traffic steering processing, triggered by the Near-RT RIC setting up or updating traffic steering aware resource optimization procedure based on information from A1 policy setup or update, A1 Enrichment Information (EI) and/or outcome of Near-RT RIC evaluation, which includes the initial configuration (preconditions) and injection of related A1 policies, triggering conditions for TS changes. Traffic steering processing mode: An operational mode in which either the RAN or the Near-RT RIC is configured to ensure a particular network performance. This performance includes such aspects as cell load and throughput, and it can apply differently to different E2 nodes and UEs. Throughout this process, traffic steering actions are used to fulfill the requirements of this configuration. Traffic steering target: The intended performance result that is desired from the network, which is configured to Near-RT RIC over O1.

## 3.2 Symbols
Void

## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations [given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1] and the following] apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1]. KPI Key Performance Indicator KQI Key Quality Indicator MBB Mobile BroadBand SMG Spatial Multiplexing Group SMO Service Management and Orchestration

# 4 Use cases

## 4.1 Traffic steering
This use case provides the motivation, description, and requirements for Near-RT RIC and E2 interface to support traffic steering, whose end-to-end requirements are specified in [32].

### 4.1.1 Background and goal of the use case
The rapid traffic growth and multiple frequency bands utilized in a commercial network make it challenging to steer the traffic in a balanced distribution. Typical controls are limited to adjusting the cell reselection and handover parameters; and modifying load calculations and cell priorities. The goal of Near-RT RIC traffic steering is to interpret the policies received over A1 and to determine the optimum changes it can make towards achieving those goals. It may also leverage the A1 enrichment information. Traffic steering may reuse mechanisms provided by other use cases to effect the changes necessary to achieve its goals. More specifically, Near-RT RIC triggers E2 procedure and related control/policies so as to obtain network performance that would fulfill the criteria identified in the A1 policies.

### 4.1.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case
1) OAM functions in SMO domain:
- Collect necessary measurement metrics from network level measurement report and enrichment data (can acquire
data from application) for constructing/training relevant AI/ML models.
- Deploy or update, configure the relevant TS optimization AI/ML models to Near-RT RIC via O1.
2) Non-RT RIC in SMO domain:
- Send A1 policies and receive policy feedback to/from Near-RT RIC to drive resource optimization at RAN level.
- E.g., TS targets as specified in O-RAN.WG2.A1AP [24].
3) Near-RT RIC:
- Supports update of AI/ML models from SMO.
- Supports inference, such as traffic prediction, using AI/ML models from Non-RT RIC based on network data, e.g.,
measurement reports from E2 node.
- Supports interpretation and execution of A1 policies from Non-RT RIC.
- Sends TS resource optimization related policies and commands to E2 node to influence RRM behavior.
- Sends the relevant A1 policy feedback to Non-RT RIC for potential policy update.
- Sends the relevant O1 performance data to OAM functions; these can be used by Non-RT RIC for potential policy
update. 4) E2 node:
- Supports reporting of UE context, network measurements, and UE measurements to Near-RT RIC over E2 interface.
- Executes policies and commands received from Near-RT RIC over E2 interface.
- Supports network and UE performance report to OAM functions in SMO domain over O1 interface.

### 4.1.3 Solutions
In this clause the possible processing modes of traffic steering are described. Three general traffic steering processing modes and the transitions between them are shown in figure 4.1.3-1. These modes represent the way the Near-RT RIC (or RAN) operates on a given group of UEs, and not the operation of any component as a whole. As such, the Near-RT RIC, could be operating in both modes 1 and 2 concurrently for different sets of UEs. For example, the transition from mode 0 or 1 to 2 occurs only for a group of UE defined by the A1 policy scope. At the same time, other UE groups may still be handled in mode 0 and/or 1. TS Mode 0: A1-P Create Policy O1 configuration Baseline from Non-RT RIC from SMO O1 configuration removal A1-P Delete Policy A1-P Delete Policy TS Mode 2: TS Mode 1: A1 Policy based Near- Background Near-RT RT RIC Processing RIC Processing A1-P Create Policy from Non-RT RIC The three processing modes are described in more detail below: 0. “Baseline” traffic steering behavior: OAM functions in SMO domain uses O1 configuration on one or more E2 node to set up a desired baseline behavior. This also sets up baseline performance monitoring of E2 node by the SMO. In this mode, Near-RT RIC is not involved. 1. “Background” Near-RT RIC processing: OAM functions in SMO domain uses O1 configuration of Near-RT RIC to set up a desired “background Near-RT RIC behavior”. In this mode the Near-RT RIC sets up E2 mechanisms to monitor E2 node and uses traffic steering related E2 mechanisms to achieve the desired background behavior of the set of E2 nodes connected to the Near-RT RIC. 2. “A1-policy based” Near-RT RIC processing: This mode can be entered from either mode 0 or mode 1. Non-RT RIC in SMO domain uses A1-P to specify an A1 guided behavior for a targeted subset of E2 nodes or UEs. If entering this from mode 1, this will have the effect of modifying the existing Near-RT RIC “background” behavior to include a more specific A1 guided behavior. In this mode, the Near-RT RIC can either set up or modify E2 mechanisms used to monitor E2 nodes and will use traffic steering related E2 mechanisms to obtain the desired behavior of some targeted sub-set of E2 nodes or UEs. This mode terminates when the corresponding A1-P policy delete message is received from Non-RT RIC in SMO domain and the system returns to either mode 0 or mode 1, depending on whether or not OAM functions in SMO domain had previously configured the optional Near-RT RIC “background” role (mode 1).
> NOTE: Processing mode 0 is strictly not in scope for WG3. It is described here for completeness and to clearly state what is the
starting point prior to the WG2 and WG3 defined mechanisms. Processing mode 2 contain an ‘outer loop’ and an ‘inner loop’. In the inner loop, a number of different “E2 mechanism” can be used (policy, report/control or insert/control) towards a number of different target RAN functions in order to either exercise existing RAN mechanisms or modifying their ongoing behavior. The appropriate mechanism and target RAN function would depend upon the RAN function capabilities to support a given E2 mechanism, the A1-P scope and policy, the O1 configuration of the RIC and the performance observed through E2 monitoring.

#### 4.1.3.1 Near-RT RIC A1-policy based traffic steering
The context of Near-RT RIC A1-policy based traffic steering is captured in table 4.1.3.1-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Drive traffic management in RAN in accordance with defined intents, policies, Goal and enrichment information from the Non-RT RIC using A1 interface.
- OAM functions in SMO domain: Performance data and training data
collection, AI model management.
- Non-RT RIC in SMO domain: Creates and updates A1 policies, AI model
training targeting to TS optimization.
- Near-RT RIC: Enforces A1 policies and generates RIC CONTROL and/or
Actors and Roles POLICY.
- E2 node: RIC CONTROL and POLICY execution and RIC REPORT
creation. Refer to 4.1.2 for more details.
- All relevant functions and components are instantiated.
Assumptions - A1, O1 and E2 interface connectivity is established.
- A1 policy scope defined.
- Network is operational with default configuration.
- OAM functions have configured a baseline measurement configuration and
the Non-RT RIC has access to this data.
- (optional) OAM functions have configured traffic steering targets in Near-
RT RIC through O1 interface.
- OAM functions have configured baseline traffic steering parameters in E2
Pre-conditions node(s) through O1 interface.
- (optional) Near-RT RIC has access to the necessary data related to traffic
steering from the E2 node by means of a RIC report procedure.
- Non-RT RIC analyzes the historical data from RAN for training the relevant
AI/ML models to be deployed or updated in the Near-RT RIC, as well as AI/ML models required for non-real-time optimization of configuration and policies. Non-RT RIC and/or Near-RT RIC perform data evaluation, determine that TS- Begins when aware optimization is required to be initiated or updated and establishes target(s). (Start of outer loop control) Non-RT RIC evaluates the collected data and A1 policy feedback, if required, Step 1 (O) and generates or updates the appropriate TS-aware resource optimization policy, such as TS targets, and sends it to Near-RT RIC via A1 interface. Step 2 (O) Non-RT RIC sends optional traffic steering related A1 enrichment information. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Based on received A1 policy and/or A1-EI from Non-RT RIC or internal trigger Step 3 (M) and/or internal evaluation and trigger, Near-RT RIC sets up or updates the TS- aware resource optimization procedure. Near-RT RIC subscribes to a UE context information and measurement metrics Step 4 (M) via E2 interface. (Start of inner loop control) Step 5 (M) E2 nodes report the UE context information and E2 measurements via RIC REPORT periodically or event-triggered. Near-RT RIC evaluates the performance data from E2 nodes (including performance data from different E2 nodes for the same UE) and finds the Step 6 (M) performance is out of TS targets which are indicated in the A1 policy and/or internal Near-RT RIC TS targets. Based on the UE context information, E2 measurement metrics (RIC REPORT), and A1 policy, Near-RT RIC may generate new or modify the existing E2 policies and sends them to E2 nodes. Near-RT RIC may also generate control command(s) and send them to E2 node(s) to trigger re-allocation of radio resources so that TS indicators can move back to the limits outlined in the A1 policies. Step 7 (M) E2 node functions target of E2 policy and control commands may be:
- E-UTRAN-NR dual connectivity
- Carrier aggregation
- Connected mode mobility
- Idle mode mobility
Step 4 to Step 7 may repeat. (End of inner loop control) If required, Near-RT RIC sends information to the SMO domain using A1 policy feedback and/or O1-PM. The Non-RT RIC may use this information and information collected from E2 nodes using O1-PM as policy feedback to assess the performance of TS optimization function in Near-RT RIC, or to assess the outcome of the applied A1 policies. Subsequently, an A1 policy can be updated. Step 8 (O) In parallel, the Near-RT RIC may use available information to assess the performance of TS optimization function in Near-RT RIC, and/or to assess the outcome of the applied A1 policies. Subsequently, Near-RT RIC TS optimization targets can be updated Step 1 to Step 8 may repeat (End of outer loop control) Non-RT RIC decides to delete TS-aware resource optimization policy and sends Ends when the related message or following internal trigger, the Near-RT RIC terminates the TS-aware resource optimization procedure. Exceptions None. Non-RT RIC continues to collect and monitor TS related measurement data from E2 node. Post Conditions Near-RT RIC continues to collect and monitor TS related measurement data from E2 node. REQ-Near-RT-RIC-TS-FUN1, REQ-Near-RT-RIC-TS-FUN2, REQ-E2-TS- FUN1, REQ-E2-TS-FUN2, REQ-E2-TS-FUN3, REQ-E2-TS-FUN4, REQ-E2- Traceability TS-FUN5, REQ-E2-TS-FUN6, REQ-E2-TS-FUN7, REQ-E2-TS-FUN8, REQ- E2-TS-FUN9, REQ-E2-TS-FUN10 Box “Service Management and Orchestration” #gold Box “O-RAN” #lightpink OAM <-> ran : <<O1>> RAN Data & Configuration collection measurements & E2-node state]) end end The overall procedure for Near-RT RIC A1-policy based traffic steering use case is given in figure 4.1.3.1-1.

### 4.1.4 Required data
This clause elaborates the Near-RT RIC and the E2 node capabilities necessary for implementation of the traffic steering use case. The requirements are specified in clause 5.

#### 4.1.4.1 Control over E2
Mobility control: Serving cell can be chosen based on the resource status and QoS of the UE(s) targeted by an A1 traffic steering policy. Moreover, load balancing can be achieved to improve the overall network performance. The following procedures can be used for traffic steering:
- Handover from the source cell to the target cell
- Configuration/reconfiguration of handover restriction list
- Configuration of idle mode mobility parameters
- Enable, disable, or modify CA (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.300 [14], 3GPP TS 36.300 [8], 3GPP TS 38.473 [21], 3GPP
TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11])
- Enable, disable, or modify dual connectivity (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.300 [14], 3GPP TS 36.300 [8], 3GPP TS
37.340 [13], 3GPP TS 38.473 [21], 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]) Both RIC POLICY and RIC CONTROL can be used.

#### 4.1.4.2 UE context information from E2 nodes
The followings are examples of UE context information identified as required:
- UE ID (as specified in [32])
- Slice level: S-NSSAI
- DRB level: e.g., established DRB ID, mapping with QoS flows, etc.
- QoS related: e.g., E-RAB level QoS parameters (4G, NSA) or QoS flow level QoS parameters (NG-RAN).
- UE capabilities: CA and DC capabilities
For example, UE ID, S-NSSAI, DRB ID, or QCI/5QI can be used to derive the QoS requirements and the resource occupation; the UE capabilities may be required to select the appropriate RRM action (e.g., CA/DC configuration).

#### 4.1.4.3 Measurements from E2 nodes
The E2 measurements are necessary for inference and prediction in the Near-RT RIC as the driver for decisions in addition to KPMs. For the traffic steering use case, the Near-RT RIC can translate an A1 policy (relatively static targets) into a flexible selection of controls over E2 (e.g., handover control, DC, CA, idle mode mobility) by taking into account the RAN resource utilization, cell level and the UE level performance, the radio conditions, etc. The examples of measurement information identified as required are listed in table 4.1.4.3-1 below. Measurement Measurement Examples Type
- DL/UL Total PRB Usage, Distribution of DL/UL Total PRB Usage, DL/UL GBR PRB
Usage, DL/UL non-GBR PRB Usage, RRC Connection Number, Available RRC Connection Capacity Value, Mean and Maximum Number of Active UEs per DRB in the DL/UL, DL/UL Scheduling PDCCH CCE Usage, DL/UL Composite Available Capacity, DL/UL Cell PDCP SDU Data Volume (including secondary RAT usage for EN-DC/MR- Cell/SSB area DC), Handover success ratio related - DL/UL SSB Area Total PRB Usage, DL/UL SSB Area GBR PRB Usage, DL/UL SSB Area measurements non-GBR PRB Usage, SSB Area Capacity Value
- DL/UL PRB usage per QCI, DL/UL PRB usage per 5QI, DL/UL PRB usage per slice,
Slice Available Capacity Value As specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], 3GPP TS 36.314 [9], 3GPP TS 38.314 [16], 3GPP TS 38.423 [19], 3GPP TS 38.463 [20] and 3GPP TS 38.473 [21]
- Average DL/UL throughput
- DL/UL PRB usage
- DL/UL Scheduled IP throughput
E2-node user plane
- Buffer Status Information (e.g., UL BSR)
measurements per- UE / UE group As specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], 3GPP TS 28.552[6], 3GPP TS 36.314 [9], 3GPP TS 38.314 [16], 3GPP TS 38.423 [19], 3GPP TS 38.473 [21], 3GPP TS 38.463 [20], 3GPP TS 36.321 [10] and 3GPP TS 38.321 [17]
- RSRP and RSRQ measurements
- SINR measurements
UE L1/L2/L3 - CQI/MCS measurements measurements - Location and Velocity measurements As specified in 3GPP TS 36.331 [11] and 3GPP TS 38.331 [18]

#### 4.1.4.4 E2 node configuration
Cell level configuration parameters, such as PCI, neighbor relations and related offsets etc. are needed at Near-RT RIC in order to e.g., configure UE measurements monitor cell level performance and manage mobility control (handover and cell reselection) according to the network topology and the related E2 parameters.

## 4.2 QoS based resource optimization
This use case provides the background and motivation for the O-RAN architecture to support near real-time QoS aware resource optimization. Based on the end-to-end requirements for the QoS based resource optimization use case specified in [32], some high-level functional descriptions and requirements over Near-RT RIC and E2 interface are introduced.

### 4.2.1 Background and goal of the use case
The network shall offer means to prioritize resources while preserving the required QoS properties, e.g., reliability, latency, bandwidth requirements, as specified in 3GPP TS 23.203 [2]. Current RAN network coverage and capacity depends on rigorous planning and configuration. However, due to varying nature of traffic demands and radio channels as well as multiple services to co-exist, it is hard to satisfy all QoS requirements simultaneously. In summary, it is important for an E2 node to achieve QoS targets as smoothly as possible. The QoS aware resource optimization should provide a refined granularity of radio resource allocation based on varying radio conditions and traffics in order to meet the diverse requirements of reliability, latency, and bandwidth simultaneously. In addition, it should coordinate allocation of radio resources for co-existing multiple services, which may have different priorities, to achieve the optimal utilization of radio resources. In case when the network performance data is observed outside the boundary of the defined QoS targets, the Near-RT RIC should be able to trigger re-allocation of radio resources so that the QoS indicators can move back within limits outlined in the A1 policies.

### 4.2.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case
1) OAM functions in SMO domain:
- Collect necessary measurement metrics from network level measurement report and enrichment data (can acquire data
from application) for constructing/training relevant AI/ML models.
- Deploy or update, configure the relevant QoS optimization AI/ML models to Near-RT RIC via O1.
2) Non-RT RIC in SMO domain:
- Send A1 policies to and receive policy feedback from Near-RT RIC to drive resource optimization at RAN level.
- E.g., QoS targets as specified in 3GPP TS 23.203 [2], such as GFBR, MFBR, priority level, PDB.
- See O-RAN.WG2.A1AP [24] for more information.
3) Near-RT RIC:
- Support update of AI/ML models from SMO.
- Support inference, such as QoS prediction, using AI/ML models from Non-RT RIC based on network data, e.g.,
measurement reports from E2 node.
- Support interpretation and execution of A1 policies from Non-RT RIC.
- Sending QoS resource optimization related policies and commands to E2 node to influence RRM behavior.
- Sending the relevant A1 policy feedback to Non-RT RIC for potential policy update.
- Sending the relevant O1 performance data to OAM functions, can be used by Non-RT RIC for potential policy update.
4) E2 node:
- Support reporting of UE context, network measurements, and UE measurements to Near-RT RIC over E2 interface.
- Executes policies and commands received from Near-RT RIC over E2 interface.
- Support network and UE performance report to OAM functions in SMO domain over O1 interface.

### 4.2.3 Solutions
The context of QoS based resource optimization use case is captured in table 4.2.3-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use QoS-aware resource optimization in E2 nodes in accordance with A1 policies and Goal O1 configuration.
- OAM functions in SMO domain: Performance data and training data collection,
AI model training targeting to QoS optimization.
- Non-RT RIC in SMO domain: Creates and updates A1 policies.
- Near-RT RIC: Enforces A1 policies and generates RIC CONTROL and/or
Actors and Roles POLICY.
- E2 node: RIC CONTROL and POLICY execution and RIC REPORT creation.
Refer to 4.2.2 for more details.
- All relevant functions and components are instantiated and configured.
Assumptions
- A1, O1, E2 interface connectivity is established.
Network is operational with default configuration. OAM functions have established RAN data collection, and Non-RT RIC has access to this data. Non-RT RIC analyzes the history data from RAN and triggers SMO to train the Pre-conditions relevant AI/ML models which are deployed or updated in Near-RT RIC via O1 interface. Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC have exchanged capabilities for the support of QoS- aware resource optimization. Begins when QoS-aware optimization policy is required to be initiated or updated. (Start of outer loop control) Non-RT RIC evaluates the collected data and A1 policy feedback, if required, and Step 1 (O) generates or updates the appropriate QoS-aware resource optimization policy, such as QoS targets, and sends it to Near-RT RIC via A1 interface. When Near-RT RIC receives an A1 policy from Non-RT RIC, Near-RT RIC initiates Step 2 (M) the corresponding optimization procedure. (Start of inner loop control) Step 3 (M) Near-RT RIC subscribes to a UE context information and measurement metrics via E2 interface. E2 nodes report the UE context information and E2 measurements via RIC Step 4 (M) REPORT periodically or event-triggered. Near-RT RIC evaluates the performance data from E2 nodes (including performance data from different E2 nodes for the same UE) and finds the Step 5 (M) performance is out of QoS targets which are indicated in the A1 policy. If performance is within the targets, Near-RT RIC keeps monitoring. Based on the UE context information, E2 measurement metrics (RIC REPORT), and A1 policy, Near-RT RIC may generate new or modify the existing E2 policies and sends them to E2 nodes. Near-RT RIC may also generate control command(s) Step 6 (M) and send them to E2 node(s) to trigger re-allocation of radio resources so that QoS indicators can move back to the limits outlined in the A1 policies. Step 3 to Step 6 may repeat. (End of inner loop control) <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use If required, Near-RT RIC sends policy feedback to Non-RT RIC to assess the performance of QoS optimization function in Near-RT RIC, or to assess the Step 7 (O) outcome of the applied A1 policies. Subsequently, an A1 policy can be updated. Step 1 to Step 7 may repeat (End of outer loop control) Non-RT RIC decides to delete QoS-aware resource optimization policy and sends Ends when the related message to Near-RT RIC. Exceptions - Non-RT RIC continues to collect and evaluate RAN data related to the QoS-aware Post Conditions optimization use case. REQ-E2-QoS-FUN1, REQ-E2-QoS-FUN2, REQ-E2-QoS-FUN3, REQ-E2-QoS- Traceability FUN4, REQ-E2-QoS-FUN5, REQ-E2-QoS-FUN6 Box “Service Management and Orchestration” #gold Box “O-RAN” #lightpink ran <-> OF : <<O1>> RAN data collection end end The overall procedure for QoS based resource optimization use case is given in figure 4.2.3-1.

### 4.2.4 Required data
This clause elaborates the Near-RT RIC and the E2 node capabilities necessary for implementation of the QoS based resource optimization use case. The requirements are specified in clause 5.

#### 4.2.4.1 Control over E2
1) DRB control: RB control can be applied for modification of the following QoS properties:
- DRB QoS modification (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.473 [21] and 3GPP TS 23.501 [3]): The DRB level QoS may be
tuned to accommodate A1 policy requirement.
- QoS flow remapping (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.473 [21]): The mapping relationship between QoS flows and DRBs
may be adjusted.
- Logical channel reconfiguration (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]): The relevant
parameters can be considered, e.g., priority, prioritized bit rate, bucket size duration, etc.
- Radio admission control (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]): DRB admission control such
as reject, or release may be applied.
- Modification of dual-connectivity DRB (as specified in 3GPP TS 37.340 [13]): Change of bearer termination point (MN
or SN) and/or bearer types (MCG/SCG/split), and control of split ratio for a split bearer.
- Activation and deactivation of packet duplication and configuration of the number of legs in DC, CA, or DC+CA
scenarios (as specified in 3GPP TS 36.300 [8] and 3GPP TS 38.300 [14]). RIC CONTROL (e.g., request for QoS flow remapping) or RIC POLICY (e.g., DRB admission policy) can be applicable. 2) Radio resource allocation, such as configuration of DRX, semi-persistent scheduling (SPS), or guidance for the scheduling and rate selection in MAC. For example, based on prediction, an E2 policy or control to reconfigure SPS configuration or ConfiguredGrantConfig for UL may be generated.
- DRX reconfiguration (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.473 [21], 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]): Long
DRX cycle length, short DRX cycle length as well as short DRX cycle timer can be considered.
- SR periodicity reconfiguration (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]): Both sr-ProhibitTimer
and sr-TransMax can be treated.
- SPS configuration (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]): Both SPS-Config (DL) and
ConfiguredGrantConfig (UL) can be treated.
- Reconfiguration of slice level PRB quota (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.541 [4])
- Configuration of CQI table with certain target block error rate (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.214 [15])
Both RIC POLICY and RIC CONTROL can be used. For example, SPS can be configured via RIC CONTROL; RIC POLICY can be used, e.g., to set the guidance for the scheduler. 3) Radio access control: Depending on operator's policies, deployment scenarios, subscriber profiles, and available services, different criterion will be used in determining which access attempt should be allowed or blocked when congestion occurs in the system, as specified in 3GPP TS 22.261 [1]. For example, access control may be applied to restrict access of other UEs for a specific cell in order to achieve better QoS for some UEs. A cell-level, UE-level, or slice-level access control can be applied. Four categories of radio access control are indicated as below:
- RACH backoff
- RRC connection reject
- RRC connection release
- Access barring
Both RIC POLICY and RIC CONTROL can be used. 4) Connection mobility control: For example, a neighbouring cell may be selected for the optimization of QoS of a specific UE. A neighbour handover restriction list may be configured to prevent the UEs from HO to some neighbouring cells in order to guarantee QoS of the UEs served by those neighbouring cells. Or a capacity boosting mechanism can be used to achieve better QoS, e.g., enable CA/DC.
- Handover from the source cell to the target cell
- Configuration/reconfiguration of handover restriction list
- Enable, disable, or modify CA (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.473 [21], 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11])
- Enable, disable, or modify dual connectivity (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.473 [21], 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS
36.331 [11]) Both RIC POLICY and RIC CONTROL can be used. For the specific requirements and related stage-3 E2SM works, please refer to the traffic steering use case defined in clause 4.1. 5) UE transmit power control: For example, when the uplink interference is too large, it is difficult to achieve the uplink QoS target. In this case, UE transmit power control will be used to adjust the amount of interference to achieve required QoS. Near-RT RIC configures target value of uplink received quality such as received SINR or power at E2 node. E2 node controls the UE power by executing open-loop/closed-loop power control to UE to achieve target value configured by Near-RT RIC.
- Configuration or modification of target value of uplink received quality such as received SINR or received power at E2
node. RIC CONTROL, RIC POLICY can be used.
> NOTE: When the target UEs are at the cell edge, their QoS of uplink can be improved by increasing their transmit power and/or
allocating additional resources to the UEs. Hence for UEs at the cell edge, the optimization should consider the impact on serving and neighbour cell.

#### 4.2.4.2 UE context information from E2 nodes
The followings are examples of UE context information identified as required:
- UE ID (as specified in [32])
- Slice level: S-NSSAI
- DRB level: e.g., established DRB ID, mapping with QoS flows, etc.
- QoS related: e.g., E-RAB level QoS parameters (4G, NSA) or QoS flow level QoS parameters (NG-RAN)
- UE capabilities: CA and DC capabilities
- RLC/MAC/PHY level: e.g., logical channel, DRX, scheduling request, SPS configurations
For example, UE ID, S-NSSAI, DRB ID, or QCI/5QI can be used for different granularity of controls over E2; an established DRB level information may be needed to change the mapping of QoS flows to a specific DRB or modify DRB attributes; the UE capabilities may be required to make sure if CA/DC can be enabled.

#### 4.2.4.3 Measurements from E2 nodes
The E2 measurements are necessary for inference and prediction in the Near-RT RIC as the driver for decisions in addition to KPMs. For the QoS based resource optimization use case, the Near-RT RIC can translate an A1 policy (relatively static targets) into a flexible selection of controls over E2 (e.g., RB control, handover, access control) by taking into account the runtime status in the Near-RT RIC. Therefore, it is required to specify those measurement parameters as possible as needed over E2 interface. The examples of UE-level, cell-level, and slice-level measurement information identified as required are listed in table 4.2.4.3- below. Measurement Type Measurement Examples Radio channel info 1. CQI (*) available at DU 1. RSRP (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]) Radio channel info 2. RSRQ (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]) available at CU- 3. SINR (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]) CP for serving cell See NOTE 1. Radio channel info 1. RSRP (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]) available at CU- 2. RSRQ (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]) CP for 3. SINR (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]) neighboring cells See NOTE 2. UE-level 1. DL/UL UE PRB usage for data traffic (*) 2. Average DL UE throughput in gNB (*) 3. Distribution of DL UE throughput in gNB (*) 4. Percentage of unrestricted DL UE data volume in gNB (*) 5. Packet Delay and RAN part packet delay components (*) 6. Packet Delay (*) L2 7. Data volume (per QCI, as specified in 3GPP TS 36.314 [9], clause 4.1.8) 8. DL PDCP occupied buffer size (*) 9. DL unused PDCP buffer size (*) 10. Packet Loss Rate per DRB (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.314 [16], clause 4.2.1.5) and per logical channel (*) Measurement Type Measurement Examples 1. CQI (available at DU; as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.11.1) 2. MCS Distribution in PDSCH (available at DU; as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.12.1) 3. DL/UL Total PRB usage (available at DU; as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.2.1 and 5.1.1.2.2 and in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clauses 4.5.3 and 4.5.4) 4. Distribution of DL/UL Total PRB usage (available at DU; as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.2.3 and 5.1.1.2.4 and in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clauses 4.5.10 and 4.5.11) 5. DL/UL PRB used for data traffic (available at DU; optionally split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.2.5 and 5.1.1.2.7) 6. DL/UL PRB usage for traffic (per QCI, as specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clauses 4.5.1 and 4.5.2) 7. DL/UL Total available PRB (available at DU; as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.2.6 and 5.1.1.2.8) 8. DL/UL PRB full utilization (as specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clauses 4.5.9.1 and 4.5.9.2) 9. Total number of DL/UL TBs (available at DU; split into subcounters per layer at MU-MIMO case, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.7.3 and 5.1.1.7.8 and in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clauses 4.5.7.1 and 4.5.7.3) 10. Total error number of DL/UL TBs (available at DU; split into subcounters per layer at MU-MIMO case, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.7.4 and 5.1.1.7.9 and in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clauses 4.5.7.2 and 4.5.7.4) 11. Average DL UE throughput in gNB (available at DU; optionally split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.3.1) 12. Distribution of DL UE throughput in gNB (available at DU; optionally split Cell-level L2 into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.3.2) 13. Percentage of unrestricted DL UE data volume in gNB (available at DU; optionally split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.3.5) 14. Packet Delay (available at DU and CU-UP; optionally split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.3.3) 15. RAN part packet delay components (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.314 [16], clause 4.2.1.2) 16. Packet Delay (per QCI, as specified in 3GPP TS 36.314 [9], clause 4.1.4) 17. DL/UL Cell PDCP SDU Data Volume (available at CU-UP; per PLMN ID and per QoS level (mapped 5QI) and per S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.2.1 for non-split gNB, clause 5.1.3.6.2 for split gNB; per PLMN ID and per E-RAB QoS profile (QCI, ARP and GBR), as specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clause 4.4.7) 18. Mean number of Active UEs in the DL/UL per cell (available at DU; optionally split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.23.1 and 5.1.1.23.3) 19. Max number of Active UEs in the DL/UL per cell (available at DU; optionally split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.23.2 and 5.1.1.23.4) 20. Average number of Active UEs (per QCI, as specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clause 4.4.2) 21. Packet Loss Rate (available at CU-UP or DU; optionally split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and Measurement Type Measurement Examples subcounters per supported S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.3.1) 22. Packet Loss Rate (per QCI, as specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clause 4.4.4) 23. DL Packet Drop Rate (available at CU-UP or DU; optionally split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.3.2) 24. DL Packet Drop Rate (per QCI, as specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clause 4.4.3.2)
> NOTE 1: Include periodical measurement report and/or RRC event trigger measurement report (A1-A6, B1-B2) (as
specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [12]).
> NOTE 2: Include periodical measurement report and/or RRC event trigger measurement report (A1-A6, B1-B2) (as
specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]). (*) Detailed measurement definition will be provided in E2SM specifications.

## 4.3 RAN slice SLA assurance
The 3GPP standards architected a sliceable 5G infrastructure which allows creation and management of customized networks to meet specific service requirements that can be demanded by future applications, services and business verticals. Such a flexible architecture needs different requirements to be specified in terms of functionality, performance and group of users which can greatly vary from one service to the other. The 5G standardization efforts have gone into defining specific slices and their Service Level Agreements (SLAs) based on application/service type as specified in 3GPP TS 22.261 [1]. Since network slicing is conceived to be an end-to-end feature that includes the core network, the transport network and the radio access network (RAN), these requirements should be met at any slice subnet during the life-time of a network slice as specified in 3GPP TS 28.530 [4], especially in RAN side. Exemplary slice performance requirements are specified in terms of throughput, energy efficiency, latency and reliability at a high level in SDOs such as 3GPP TS 22.261 [1] and GSMA [22]. These requirements are defined as a reference for SLA/contractual agreements for each slice, which individually need proper handling in NG-RAN. Although network slicing support is started to be defined with 3GPP Release 15, slice assurance mechanisms in RAN needs to be further addressed to achieve deployable network slicing in an open RAN environment. It is necessary to assure the SLAs by dynamically controlling slice configurations based on slice specific performance information. Existing RAN performance measurements as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6] and information model definitions as specified in 3GPP TS 28.541 [5] are not enough to support RAN slice SLA assurance use cases. This use case is intended to clarify necessary mechanisms and parameters for RAN slice SLA assurance. In the context of the RAN, the SLA assurance parameters sent over the A1 interface help the Near-RT RIC guide the behavior of the E2 nodes (O-CU-UP, O-CU-CP, O-DU). The Non-RT RIC utilizes the slice SLA information and performance metrics to derive the necessary set of A1 policies and sends those to the Near-RT RICs related to a network slice. Each subtending Near- RT RICs uses these A1 policies for further cell-level and/or UE-level policy guidance and/or control action over the E2 interface that affects the cells and/or UEs, involved in the network slice, served by the respective E2 nodes. The combined guidance is handled as one or more A1 policies and/or E2 policies and/or E2 control actions. The intention of the SLA assurance parameters in the RAN context is to provide guidance to the E2 nodes for assuring SLAs of the network slices in the radio access network.

### 4.3.1 Background and goal of the use case
In the 5G era, network slicing is a prominent feature which provides end-to-end connectivity and data processing tailored to specific business requirements. These requirements include customizable network capabilities such as the support of very high data rates, traffic densities, service availability and very low latency. According to 5G standardization efforts, the 5G system can support the needs of the business through the specification of several service needs such as data rate, traffic capacity, user density, latency, reliability, and availability. These capabilities are always provided based on a Service Level Agreement (SLA) between the mobile operator and the business customer, which brought up interest for mechanisms to ensure slice SLAs and prevent its possible violations. O-RAN’s open interfaces and AI/ML based architecture will enable such challenging mechanisms to be implemented and help pave the way for operators to realize the opportunities of network slicing in an efficient manner. 5G core and O-RAN cooperation for SLA enforcement The network functions and components that are related with SLA enforcement within 5G Core (5GC) and O-RAN are shown in figure 4.3.1-1. Although the 5GC enforces most of the SLA parameters, the components of the 5GC have a comprehensive view of the entire wireless network but from a core perspective. 3GPP Release 17 introduces the concept of a Network Slice Admission Control Function (NSACF). This debuted from the 3GPP TR 23.700-40 [i.3], and normative as specified in 3GPP TS 23.501 [31], clause 5.15.11. The purpose of the NSACF is to enforce some of the slice SLA parameters from a 5G core perspective. While NSACF handles slice-specific user admission control into the network as specified in GSMA NG.116 [22] GST criterion, the AMF allows the UE to access slice(s) through S-NSSAI or NSSAI requests through NSACF interaction. Together, they can perform network-level policy enforcement. However, these components do not have the detailed knowledge of RAN, such as RAN resources usage or where specific UEs are geographically located within a gNB. These 5GC components can perform only at a “network view” and they also do not have control over RAN resources. O-RAN SLA assurance is independent of and complements 5GC SLA policy enforcement. Within the RAN, the Near-RT RIC provides unique SLA policy actions within the scope of E2 nodes based on the A1 policy guidance received from the Non-RT RIC. Non-RT RIC & Near-RT RIC provide RAN guidance for SLA objectives As shown in figure 4.3.1-2, the Non-Real Time RIC obtains the SLA parameters from SMO. The Non-RT RIC has a system level view of RAN topology, configuration and performance, so rApps can provide ongoing guidance and decompose SLA objects to the subtending Near-RT RICs. The Non-RT RIC then translates the SLA parameters into SLA objective A1 policies to its subtending Near-RT RIC(s). In some cases, the SLA parameters are already RAN or UE specific. Those SLA parameters would then not need any change in their values and would be “passed-through” to the Near-RT RIC(s) in A1 policies. The Near-RT RICs obtain the SLA objectives via A1 policies from the Non-RT RIC. The Near-RT RIC can provide cell-level and/or UE-level guidance or control to the E2 nodes to achieve SLA assurance enforcement at the RAN level. The E2 nodes receive guidance or control from their respective Near-RT RICs. There are parameters as specified in GSMA GST/NEST NG.116 [22], such as the Downlink and Uplink Throughput Per Network Slice, that have both core and RAN applicability. For example, the Downlink and Uplink Throughput Per Network Slice can be used by 5GC network functions; and the Non-RT RIC can calculate maxUlThptPerSlice and maxDlThptPerSlice parameters in an A1 policy which will then be used by the Near-RT RIC as target values via monitoring E2 node performance and, where required, requesting appropriate E2 services (CONTROL and/or POLICY) to provide guidance to the E2 nodes.

### 4.3.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case
1) Non-RT RIC: a) Retrieve RAN slice SLA target from respective entities such as SMO, NSSMF. b) Long term monitoring of RAN slice performance measurements. c) Training of potential ML models that will be deployed in Non-RT RIC for slow loop optimization and/or Near-RT RIC for fast loop optimization. d) Support deployment and update of AI/ML models into Near-RT RIC. e) Receive slice control/slice SLA assurance rApps from SMO. f) Create and update A1 policies based on RAN intent and A1 feedback. g) Send A1 policies and enrichment information to Near-RT RIC to drive slice assurance. h) Send O1 reconfiguration requests to SMO for slow-loop slice assurance. 2) Near-RT RIC: a) Near-real-time monitoring of slice specific RAN performance measurements. b) Support deployment and execution of the AI/ML models from Non-RT RIC. c) Receive slice SLA assurance xApps from SMO. d) Support interpretation and execution of policies from Non-RT RIC. e) Perform optimized RAN (E2) actions to achieve RAN slice requirements based on O1 configuration, A1 policy, and E2 reports. 3) E2 node: a) Support slice assurance actions such as slice-aware resource allocation, prioritization, etc. through E2. b) Support slice specific performance measurements through O1. c) Support slice specific performance reports through E2.

### 4.3.3 Solutions

#### 4.3.3.1 RAN slice SLA assurance
The context of RAN slice SLA assurance is captured in table 4.3.3.1-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal RAN slice SLA assurance Actors and Roles SMO functions, Non-RT RIC framework, Near-RT RIC, E2 nodes All relevant functions and components are instantiated. Assumptions A1, O1, E2 interface connectivity is established. Near-RT RIC and Non-RT RIC are instantiated with A1 interface connectivity being established between them. O1 interfaces are established between SMO and Near-RT RIC, and SMO Pre-conditions and E2 nodes. RAN slice SLA assurance applications have been deployed in Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC respectively. Begins when A RAN slice is activated, or an operator defined trigger is detected. OAM functions may configure baseline slice SLA Assurance parameters in Step 1 (M) E2 node(s) through O1 interface. OAM functions collects data from E2 node through O1 interface. RAN slice SLA assurance rApp retrieves relevant information from Non-RT RIC framework, such as active RAN slices (such as active S-NSSAIs, Step 2 (M) network slice subnet instances, topology), RAN slice SLA information, NF configuration, etc. RAN slice SLA assurance rApp monitors and evaluates performance of Step 3 (M) RAN slices which may include detection of possible RAN slice SLA violation. RAN slice SLA assurance rApp decides to apply A1 policy-based RAN slice SLA assurance considering RAN slice SLA requirements and/or operator- Step 4 (M) defined RAN intents, EI from external application servers and O1 based long term trends. In addition to these input parameters, A1 feedback from Near- RT RIC, when available, can be utilized for updating existing policies. (Start of inner loop control) Step 5 (M) Near-RT RIC subscribes to a UE context information and measurement metrics via E2 interface. E2 nodes report the UE context information and E2 measurements via RIC Step 6 (M) REPORT periodically or event-triggered. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Near-RT RIC evaluates the performance data from E2 nodes (including performance data from different E2 nodes for the same UE) and finds the Step 7 (M) performance is out of slice SLA targets which are indicated in the A1 policy and/or internal Near-RT RIC slice SLA targets. Based on the UE context information, E2 measurement metrics (RIC REPORT), and A1 policy, Near-RT RIC may generate new or modify the existing E2 policies and sends them to E2 nodes. Step 8 (M) Near-RT RIC may also generate control command(s) and send them to E2 node(s) to trigger re-allocation of radio resources so that slice SLA indicators can move back to the limits outlined in the A1 policies. Step 9 (O) Near-RT RIC may send A1 policy feedback on A1 to the Non-RT RIC. Non-RT RIC decides to delete slice SLA assurance policy and sends the Step 10 (O) related message or following internal trigger, the Near-RT RIC terminates the slice SLA Assurance procedure. Ends when RAN slice(s) is deactivated or an operator defined trigger is detected. Exceptions None identified. Post Conditions SLA assurance for RAN slice(s) over a period of time is achieved. Traceability Box “Service Management and Orchestration” #gold Box “O-RAN” #lightpink ran <-> OF : <<O1>> RAN data collection metrics) end end The flow diagram of the RAN slice SLA assurance is given in figure 4.3.3.1-1.

### 4.3.4 Required data
This clause elaborates the Near-RT RIC and the E2 node capabilities necessary for implementation of the slice SLA assurance use case. The requirements are specified in clause 5.

#### 4.3.4.1 Control over E2
1) Radio resource allocation, such as configuration of slice level PRB quota or per-cell-per-slice/QoS frequency partitions. For example, based on prediction, an E2 policy or control to reconfigure slice level PRB may be generated. Another example is, based on analysis of slice level interference among cells in terms of the reliability requirement, an E2 control to reconfigure frequency partitions may be generated.
- Configuration and/or reconfiguration of slice level PRB quota (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.541 [4])
- Configuration and/or reconfiguration of per-cell-per-slice/QoS frequency partitions
Both RIC POLICY and RIC CONTROL can be used. 2) Radio access control: Depending on operator's policies, deployment scenarios, subscriber profiles, available services and SLA of slice, different criterion will be used in determining which access attempt should be allowed or blocked when congestion occurs in the system, as specified in 3GPP TS 22.261 [1]. For example, access control may be applied to restrict access of other UEs for a specific slice in order to achieve better SLA for some slice. A UE-level, or slice-level access control can be applied. Three categories of radio access control are indicated as below:
- RRC connection reject
- RRC connection release
- Access barring

#### 4.3.4.2 UE context information from E2 nodes
The followings are examples of UE context information identified as required:
- UE ID
- Slice level: S-NSSAI
- QoS level: 5QI
- UE-level RAN state information
- UE-level PM data
For example, UE ID, S-NSSAI and 5QI can be used to derive the resource occupation of each slice.

#### 4.3.4.3 Measurements from E2 nodes
The E2 measurements are necessary for inference and prediction in the Near-RT RIC as the driver for decisions in addition to KPMs. For the slice SLA assurance use case, the Near-RT RIC can translate an A1 policy (relatively static targets) into a flexible selection of controls over E2 (e.g., PRB control, access control) by taking into account the runtime status in the Near-RT RIC. Therefore, it is required to specify those measurement parameters as possible as needed over E2 interface. The examples of cell-level, UE-level, and slice-level measurement information identified as required are listed in table 4.3.4.3- below. Measurement Type Measurement Examples 1. DL/UL Total PRB usage (available at DU; as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.2.1 and 5.1.1.2.2 and in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clauses 4.5.3 and 4.5.4) 2. Distribution of DL/UL Total PRB usage (available at DU; as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.2.3 and 5.1.1.2.4 and in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clauses 4.5.10 and 4.5.11) 3. DL/UL PRB used for data traffic (available at DU; optionally split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.2.5 and 5.1.1.2.7) 4. DL/UL Total available PRB (available at DU; as specified in 3GPP TS Cell-level L2 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.2.6 and 5.1.1.2.8) 5. Average DL UE throughput in gNB (available at DU; optionally split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.3.1) 6. Distribution of DL UE throughput in gNB (available at DU; optionally split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.3.2) 7. Packet Delay (available at DU and CU-UP; optionally split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.3.3) Measurement Type Measurement Examples 8. DL/UL Cell PDCP SDU Data Volume (available at CU-UP; per PLMN ID and per QoS level (mapped 5QI) and per S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.2.1 for non-split gNB, clause 5.1.3.6.2 for split gNB; per PLMN ID and per E-RAB QoS profile (QCI, ARP and GBR), as specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clause 4.4.7) 9. Mean number of Active UEs in the DL/UL per cell (available at DU; optionally split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.23.1 and 5.1.1.23.3) 10. Max number of Active UEs in the DL/UL per cell (available at DU; optionally split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.23.2 and 5.1.1.23.4) 11. Average number of Active UEs (per QCI, as specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clause 4.4.2) 12. Packet Loss Rate (available at CU-UP or DU; optionally split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.3.1) 13. Packet Loss Rate (per QCI, as specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clause 4.4.4) 14. DL Packet Drop Rate (available at CU-UP or DU; optionally split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.3.2) 15. DL Packet Drop Rate (per QCI, as specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clause 4.4.3.2) 16. Wideband CQI distribution (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.11.1) 17. SS-RSRP distribution per SSB for serving cell (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.22.1) 18. SS-RSRP distribution per SSB for neighbor cell (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.22.1) 1. DL/UL PRB used for data traffic (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.2.5 and 5.1.1.2.7) 2. Average DL UE throughput in gNB (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.3.1) 3. Distribution of DL UE throughput in gNB (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.3.2) 4. Packet Delay (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.3.3) 5. DL/UL Cell PDCP SDU Data Volume (as specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], Slice-level L2 clause 4.4.7) 6. Mean number of Active UEs in the DL/UL per cell (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.23.1 and 5.1.1.23.3) 7. Max number of Active UEs in the DL/UL per cell (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.23.2 and 5.1.1.23.4) 8. Packet Loss Rate (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.3.1) 9. DL Packet Drop Rate (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.3.2) 1. DL/UL PRB used for data traffic (as specified in O-RAN WG3 E2SM-KPM [36]) 2. Average DL UE throughput in gNB (as specified in O-RAN WG3 E2SM- KPM [36]) UE-level L2 3. Distribution of DL UE throughput in gNB (as specified in O-RAN WG3 E2SM-KPM [36]) 4. Packet Delay (as specified in O-RAN WG3 E2SM-KPM [36]) 5. DL/UL Cell PDCP SDU Data Volume (as specified in O-RAN WG3 E2SM- KPM [36]) Measurement Type Measurement Examples 6. Mean number of Active UEs in the DL/UL per cell (as specified in O-RAN WG3 E2SM-KPM [36]) 7. Max number of Active UEs in the DL/UL per cell (as specified in O-RAN WG3 E2SM-KPM [36]) 8. Packet Loss Rate (as specified in O-RAN WG3 E2SM-KPM [36]) 9. DL Packet Drop Rate (as specified in O-RAN WG3 E2SM-KPM [36]) 10. DRB-specific RLC buffer occupancy (as specified in O-RAN WG3 E2SM- RC [37]) 11. Serving cell and neighbor cell RRC measurements (as specified in O- RAN WG3 E2SM-RC [37]) 12. Number of DRBs and PDU sessions (as specified in O-RAN WG3 E2SM- RC [37]) 13. Number of QoS flows and QoS parameters of QoS flows mapped to each DRB (as specified in O-RAN WG3 E2SM-RC [37]) 14. Number of HARQ TBs with specific MCS rates (as specified in O-RAN WG3 E2SM-KPM [36]) 15. CQI (as specified in O-RAN WG3 E2SM-KPM [36]) 16. Serving cell and neighbor cell RSRP (as specified in O-RAN WG3 E2SM- KPM [36])

## 4.4 Massive MIMO optimization

### 4.4.1 Background and goal of the use case
Please refer to [i.2] and [32].

### 4.4.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case
> NOTE: The AI/ML model training, deployment, and inference described below cannot be applicable for some mMIMO
optimization features. 1) SMO/Non-RT RIC:
- Retrieve necessary performance indicators, measurement reports and RAN configurations from E2 nodes via the O1
interface for the purpose of AI/ML model training and performance monitoring.
- E.g., the number of supported Non-GoB BF modes in O-DU.
- Collect enrichment information from application servers and associate enrichment information with collected
measurements and configurations.
- Perform AI/ML model training and deployment.
- Perform AI/ML model performance monitoring and re-training.
- Send enrichment information to the Near-RT RIC for inference via the A1 interface.
> NOTE: The requirements of SMO/Non-RT RIC are under the scope of WG2.
2) Near-RT RIC:
- Support AI/ML model deployment from the Non-RT RIC via the O1/O2 interface.
- Subscribe and retrieve necessary performance and failure indicators, measurement reports, UE context information
and RAN configurations from E2 nodes via the E2 interface for the purpose of mMIMO optimization.
- Retrieve enrichment information from Non-RT RIC via the A1 interface, and associate enrichment information with
collected measurements and configurations.
- Perform AI/ML model training and inference.
- Perform AI/ML model performance monitoring and re-training.
- Send control or policy message for massive MIMO optimization to E2 nodes via the E2 interface.
3) E2 nodes:
- Support reporting of necessary performance indicators, measurement reports, UE context information and RAN
configurations with required granularity to SMO/Non-RT RIC via the O1 interface.
- Support reporting of necessary performance and failure indicators, measurement reports, UE context information
collection and RAN configurations with required granularity to Near-RT RIC via the E2 interface.
- Execute control/policy message received from the Near-RT RIC via the E2 interface.

### 4.4.3 Solutions

#### 4.4.3.1 AI/ML-assisted Non-Grid-of-Beams beamforming optimization

##### 4.4.3.1.1 Model training in Non-RT RIC
> NOTE: The below table 4.4.3.1.1-1 and figure 4.4.3.1.1-1 are under the scope of WG2.
The context of AI/ML-assisted Non-GoB BF mode selection in Non-RT RIC – model training, deployment, and update is captured in table 4.4.3.1.1-1. and update <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use To train an AI/ML model to select the best Non-GoB BF modes given Goal wireless conditions and RAN configuration. Actors and Roles SMO, Non-RT RIC, Near-RT RIC, O-DU, Application server
- All relevant functions and components are instantiated.
Assumptions
- O1 interface connectivity is established.
- O1 interface is established between SMO and O-DU to enable
SMO/Non-RT RIC to obtain the number of supported Non-GoB BF modes and to collect performance measurement data and associated Pre-conditions RAN configurations.
- A1 interface is established between Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC to
enable enrichment information transfer.
- O-DU supports Non-GoB BF.
Begins when Operator specified trigger condition or event is satisfied. SMO requests the number of supported Non-GoB BF modes in O-DU via Step 1 (M) the O1 interface. SMO collects the number of supported Non-GoB BF modes in O-DU via Step 2 (M) the O1 interface. Step 3 (M) Non-RT RIC retrieves collected information. For each Non-GoB BF mode, SMO requests performance measurement Step 4 (M) data and associated RAN configurations from O-DU for model training via the O1 interface. SMO collects required performance measurement data and RAN Step 5 (M) configurations from O-DU via the O1 interface. SMO collects enrichment information (e.g., UE mobility and location info.) Step 6 (M) from application server. Step 7 (M) Non-RT RIC retrieves collected data and enrichment information. For each Non-GoB BF mode, Non-RT RIC associates received enrichment Step 8 (M) information with measurement data and RAN configurations. Step 9 (M) Non-RT RIC performs model training. Non-RT RIC deploys trained model to the Near-RT RIC via O1 or O2 Step 10 (M) interface. For each Non-GoB BF mode, SMO requests performance measurement Step 11 (M) data from O-DU for performance monitoring via the O1 interface. For each Non-GoB BF mode, SMO collects performance measurement Step 12 (M) data from O-DU for performance monitoring via the O1 interface. SMO collects enrichment information (e.g., UE mobility and location info.) Step 13 (M) from application server. Non-RT RIC retrieves collected performance monitoring data and Step 14 (M) enrichment information. Step 15 (M) Non-RT RIC evaluates the performance of deployed AI/ML model. Step 16 (M) Non-RT RIC re-trains the model. Step 17 (M) Non-RT RIC updates model in the Near-RT RIC via O1 or O2 interface. Ends when Operator specified trigger condition or event is satisfied. Exceptions None identified. Near-RT RIC executes the deployed model for AI/ML-assisted Non-GoB Post Conditions BF. REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN1, REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN4, REQ-Non-RT-RIC- Traceability FUN5, REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN9, REQ-A1-FUN2, REQ-Near-RT-RIC-MM-FUN2 Box “Service Management and Orchestration” #gold Box “O-RAN” #lightpink Box “External” #lightcyan end end end The flow diagram of the AI/ML model training in Non-RT RIC, deployment, and performance monitoring is given in figure 4.4.3.1.1-1.

##### 4.4.3.1.2 Model training in Near-RT RIC
The context of AI/ML-assisted Non-GoB BF mode selection – model training in Near-RT RIC, deployment, and update is captured in table 4.4.3.1.2-1. and update <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use To train an AI/ML model to select the best Non-GoB BF modes given Goal wireless conditions and RAN configuration. Actors and Roles SMO, Non-RT RIC, Near-RT RIC, O-DU, Application server Assumptions - All relevant functions and components are instantiated.
- A1 interface is established between Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC to
enable enrichment information transfer. Pre-conditions
- O-DU supports Non-GoB BF.
- E2 interface is established between Near-RT RIC and O-DU.
Begins when Operator specified trigger condition or event is satisfied. Near-RT RIC requests the number of supported Non-GoB BF modes in O- Step 1 (M) DU via the E2 interface. Near-RT RIC collects the number of supported Non-GoB BF modes in O- Step 2 (M) DU via the E2 interface. For each Non-GoB BF mode, Near-RT RIC requests performance Step 3 (M) measurement data and associated RAN configurations from O-DU for model training via the E2 interface. Near-RT RIC collects required performance measurement data and RAN Step 4 (M) configurations from O-DU via the E2 interface. Near-RT RIC collects enrichment information (e.g., UE mobility and Step 5 (M) location info) from Non-RT RIC via the A1 interface. For each Non-GoB BF mode, Near-RT RIC associates received Step 6 (M) enrichment information with measurement data and RAN configurations. Step 7 (M) Near-RT RIC performs model training. For each Non-GoB BF mode, Near-RT RIC requests performance Step 8 (M) measurement data from O-DU for performance monitoring/training updates via the E2 interface. For each Non-GoB BF mode, Near-RT RIC collects performance Step 9 (M) measurement data from O-DU for performance monitoring/training updates via the E2 interface. Near-RT RIC collects enrichment information (e.g., UE mobility and Step 10 (M) location info) from Non-RT RIC via the A1 interface. Step 11 (M) Near-RT RIC evaluates the performance of deployed AI/ML model. Step 12 (M) Near-RT RIC re-trains the model. Ends when Operator specified trigger condition or event is satisfied. Exceptions None identified. Near-RT RIC executes the deployed model for AI/ML-assisted Non-GoB Post Conditions BF. REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN9, REQ-A1-FUN3, REQ-Near-RT-RIC-MM-FUN1, REQ-Near-RT-RIC-MM-FUN3, REQ-E2-MM-FUN2, REQ-E2-MM-FUN3, Traceability REQ-E2-MM-FUN5, REQ-E2-MM-FUN6, REQ-E2-MM-FUN9, REQ-E2- MM-FUN10 Box “Service Management and Orchestration” #gold Box “O-RAN” #lightpink Box “External” #lightcyan mode mode end end mode end The flow diagram of the AI/ML model training in Near-RT RIC, deployment, and performance monitoring is given in figure 4.4.3.1.2-1.

##### 4.4.3.1.3 Model inference
The context of AI/ML-assisted Non-GoB BF mode selection – model inference is captured in table 4.4.3.1.3-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal To generate Non-GoB control/policy message. Actors and Roles SMO, Non-RT RIC, Near-RT RIC, O-DU, Application server
- All relevant functions and components are instantiated.
Assumptions
- A1 and E2 interface connectivity are established.
- A1 interface is established between Non-RT RIC and Near-RT RIC to
enable enrichment information transfer. Pre-conditions - E2 interface is established between Near-RT RIC and O-DU to enable Non-GoB BF mode selection via E2 control/policy message.
- O-DU supports Non-GoB BF.
Begins when Operator specified trigger condition or event is satisfied. SMO collects enrichment information (e.g., UE mobility/location info) from Step 1 (M) application server. Step 2 (M) Non-RT RIC retrieves collected enrichment information. Non-RT RIC sends collected enrichment information to the Near-RT RIC Step 3 (M) via the A1 interface. Near-RT RIC requests measurement data and UE context information Step 4 (M) (e.g., SRS periodicity) from O-DU via the E2 interface. Near-RT RIC collects measurement data and UE context information (e.g., Step 5 (M) SRS periodicity) from O-DU via the E2 interface. Near-RT RIC associates received enrichment information with collected Step 6 (M) measurement data and UE context information. Step 7 (M) Near-RT RIC performs model inference. Near-RT RIC generates Non-GoB control/policy message based on Step 8 (M) inferred Non-GoB BF mode selection. Near-RT RIC sends Non-GoB control/policy message to O-DU via the E2 Step 9 (M) interface. Ends when Operator specified trigger condition or event is satisfied. Exceptions None identified. Non-RT RIC monitors the performance of AI/ML-assisted Non-GoB BF Post Conditions mode selection in the Near-RT RIC. REQ-Non-RT-RIC-FUN9, REQ-A1-FUN3, REQ-Near-RT-RIC-MM-FUN2, REQ-Near-RT-RIC-MM-FUN3, Traceability REQ-E2-MM-FUN2, REQ-E2-MM-FUN3, REQ-E2-MM-FUN5, REQ-E2-MM-FUN6 Box “Service Management and Orchestration” #gold Box “O-RAN” #lightpink Box “External” #lightcyan periodicity) periodicity) configurations end The flow diagram of the AI/ML inference is given in figure 4.4.3.1.3-1.

#### 4.4.3.2 Beam-based Mobility Robustness Optimization (bMRO)
Beam-based Mobility Robustness Optimization (bMRO) is an autonomous self-optimizing algorithm that improves beam-based inter-cell mobility performance by applying beam-specific HO parameters including Cell Individual Offsets (CIO), Time to Trigger (TTT), T310 counter, etc. on the handover configuration between neighbor cells, based on the analysis of beam-specific mobility-related counters and/or mobility failure events. bMRO is capable to reduce the number of unnecessary handovers, handover failures as well as ping-pong handovers particularly in cells that cover areas with different mobility characteristics. Performance, complexity and gain analysis has been provided in O-RAN.WG1.mMIMO-Use-Cases-TR-v01.00 [i.2], clause 3.3. Signaling overhead and complexity (RRC re-configuration, mobility reporting and O-CU reconfiguration messages) can be further reduced by beam grouping in which case beams with similar mobility characteristics comprise a beam group (e.g., group 1: low mobility pedestrian area, group 2: high mobility street). Mobility reports consist of aggregated mobility KPI/PMs (e.g., number of too early HOs, number of too late HOs, number of HO to wrong cell) or individual failure reports with root cause (e.g., to early HO, too late HO, HO to wrong cell) or a combination of the two. Reports are sent per each SSB beam or SSB beam based optimization (besides beam or beam group specific reporting). While aggregated mobility KPIs/PMs are used for slow adaptations (e.g., 5 min), individual failure reports are used for faster adaptations (e.g., 100 ms) or for AI/ML based analysis of failure patterns. Measurement reporting periodicity and measurement type are configurable on a per cell basis considering the tradeoff between gain in mobility performance and associated signaling overhead. Mobility KPIs and failure events are forwarded from the O-CU to the Near-RT RIC, and the Near-RT RIC configures the CIO and the measurement reporting in the O-CUs. CIOs might be beam- or beam group-based and can also be configurable per UE group (e.g., UE type, UE mobility or UE mode such as energy saving mode). While AI/ML based approaches are not mandated, AI/ML methods/models can be used i) to build beam groups, to ii) decide on cell individual measurement configuration, to iii) detect changes in mobility characteristics (e.g., traffic jam) that trigger optimization, to iv) group UEs in UE groups as well as v) for the bMRO optimization algorithm itself to calculate the optimal cell individual offsets. In case of dynamic beam pattern optimization, relevant mMIMO beam pattern information shall be available at the Near-RT RIC, e.g., mobility reports might indicate a specific beam pattern. The context of Near-RT RIC beam-based mobility robustness optimization – model training and beam grouping is captured in table 4.4.3.2-1. grouping <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use To obtain beam pattern optimization in case of Grid-of-Beam optimization, Goal to train the ML models and to decide on the beam grouping. Actors and Roles SMO, Near-RT RIC, E2 node (O-CU)
- All relevant functions and components are instantiated.
Assumptions
- O1 and E2 interface connectivity are established.
- Network is operational with default configuration.
- (optional) OAM functions have configured bMRO targets in Near-RT
RIC through O1 interface.
- OAM functions have configured baseline mobility parameters in O-CUs
Pre-conditions through O1 interface.
- O-CUs support reporting of beam-based mobility performance and/or
instantaneous mobility failure event reporting.
- Near-RT RIC has access to the beam-based mobility performance
and/or failure reporting from the E2 node. Begins when Operator specified trigger condition or event is satisfied. OAM provides ML model to the Near-RT RIC via O1 or O2 interface (e.g., to perform beam grouping, to identify a change in mobility characteristics, Step 1 (M) to derive optimized mobility reporting configuration and/or to calculate the optimized mobility settings). Near-RT RIC subscribes to cell change configuration reports from E2 node Step 2 (M) (O-CU) to obtain mMIMO beam pattern information. Near-RT RIC obtains cell change configuration reports from E2 node (O- Step 3 (M) CU) including mMIMO beam pattern information. Near-RT RIC subscribes to beam based mobility performance and failure Step 4 (M) reporting via E2 interface. Near-RT RIC obtains to beam based mobility performance and failure Step 5 (M) reporting via E2 interface. Step 6 (M) Near-RT RIC performs model training. Near-RT RIC obtains to beam based mobility performance and failure Step 7 (M) reporting via E2 interface. Near-RT RIC performs AI/ML based beam grouping algorithm to group Step 8 (M) beams with similar mobility characteristics based on received mobility reports. Near-RT RIC generates beam grouping policy message and send policy Step 9 (M) message to O-CUs via E2 interfaces. Exceptions None identified. Post Conditions None identified. REQ-Near-RT-RIC-TS-FUN1, REQ-Near-RT-RIC-TS-FUN2, REQ-E2-MM-FUN1, Traceability REQ-E2-MM-FUN4, REQ-E2-MM-FUN5, REQ-E2-MM-FUN7, REQ-E2-MM-FUN8 Autonumber Box “SMO” #gold Box “O-RAN” #lightpink Hnote over NearRTRIC mMIMO Beam Pattern Information is available Endhnote end end The flow diagram of the procedure for Near-RT RIC beam-based mobility robustness optimization – model training and initial beam grouping is given in figure 4.4.3.2-1. and initial beam grouping The context of Near-RT RIC beam-based mobility robustness optimization – model inference and mobility optimization is captured in table 4.4.3.2-2. optimization <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Based on evaluation of mobility performance and failure reporting, identify changes in mobility characteristics and derive optimized mobility settings Goal such as CIO, TTT, T310, etc. to optimize beam-based mobility performance between neighbor cells. Actors and Roles SMO, Near-RT RIC, E2 node (O-CU)
- All relevant functions and components are instantiated.
Assumptions - O1 and E2 interface connectivity are established.
- ML models are trained, and beam groups are defined.
- Network is operational with default configuration.
- (optional) OAM functions have configured bMRO targets in Near-RT
RIC through O1 interface.
- OAM functions have configured baseline mobility parameters in O-CUs
through O1 interface. Pre-conditions
- Near-RT RIC has up-to-date beam pattern information.
- O-CUs support reporting of beam-based mobility performance and/or
instantaneous mobility failure event reporting.
- Near-RT RIC has access to the beam-based mobility performance
and/or failure reporting from the E2 node. Begins when Operator specified trigger condition or event is satisfied. Near-RT RIC subscribes to beam- or beam-group based mobility Step 1 (M) performance and/or failure reporting via E2 interface for mobility optimization. Near-RT RIC subscribes to cell configuration reports via E2 interface to Step 2 (M) get informed about mMIMO beam pattern changes. SMO may trigger mobility optimization by configuration of a new GoB beam pattern in the E2 node (O-CU). Near-RT RIC obtains the cell configuration from E2 node via E2 interface and detects a mMIMO beam Step 3,4,5,6,7 (M) pattern change. Based on obtained mobility reports from E2 nodes, AI/ML model inference in the Near-RT RIC derives an updated beam grouping. Near-RT RIC requests to apply an updated beam grouping policy at E2 node (O-CU). Alternatively, OAM may trigger mobility optimization by operator specified Step 8 (M) trigger or a new optimization target. Near-RT RIC obtains to beam- or beam-group based mobility performance Step 9 (M) and failure reporting via E2 interface for mobility optimization. Near-RT RIC performs AI/ML based mobility report analysis to detect a Step 10 (M) change in mobility characteristics and to trigger reconfiguration of mobility reporting and mobility parameter settings. Near-RT RIC subscribes to updated beam- or beam-group based mobility Step 11 (M) performance and failure reporting via E2 interface. Near-RT RIC obtains to beam-or beam-group based mobility performance Step 12 (M) and failure reporting via E2 interface. Near-RT RIC performs mobility robustness optimization to update mobility Step 13 (M) parameter settings. Near-RT RIC requests to apply an updated beam- or beam-group based Step 14 (M) mobility parameter policy (e.g., CIO, TTT, T310, etc.) at E2 node (O-CU). Ends when Operator specified trigger condition or event is satisfied. Exceptions None identified. Near-RT RIC monitors the performance of mobility robustness optimization Post Conditions in the Near-RT RIC and initiates ML model retraining if required. REQ-Near-RT-RIC-TS-FUN1, REQ-Near-RT-RIC-TS-FUN2, REQ-Near-RT-RIC-TS-FUN3, REQ-E2-MM-FUN1, Traceability REQ-E2-MM-FUN4, REQ-E2-MM-FUN5, REQ-E2-MM-FUN7, REQ-E2-MM-FUN8 Autonumber Box “SMO” #gold Box “O-RAN” #lightpink Hnote over NearRTRIC mMIMO Beam Pattern Change Endhnote end end Hnote over NearRTRIC Change in mobility characteristics Endhnote Hnote over NearRTRIC Update mobility parameters Endhnote end end end The flow diagram of the procedure for Near-RT RIC beam-based mobility robustness optimization – optimization trigger, model inference and mobility optimization is given in figure 4.4.3.2-2. trigger, model inference and mobility optimization

#### 4.4.3.3 MU-MIMO optimization
The context of MU-MIMO optimization is captured in table 4.4.3.3-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal MU-MIMO optimization using Near-RT RIC control loop. Near-RT RIC: Configures E2 nodes’ measurements, collects data from E2 nodes, performs MU-MIMO optimization function, and sends MIMO Actors and Roles information to E2 nodes. E2 nodes: Report measurements to Near-RT RIC and execute received MU-MIMO information. E2 connectivity is established between Near-RT RIC and E2 nodes. Assumptions Network is operational. All relevant functions and components are instantiated. MU-MIMO Pre-conditions optimization xApp is deployed with initial configuration. All relevant subscriptions established on E2 interface. Begins when Operator specified trigger condition or event is satisfied. Near-RT RIC requests cell and UE capabilities and configuration Step 1 (M) information from E2 node (O-CU). Near-RT RIC obtains cell and UE capabilities and configuration Step 2 (M) information from E2 node (O-CU). Near-RT RIC requests UE connections and RRC states information from Step 3 (M) E2 node (O-CU). Near-RT RIC obtains UE connections and RRC states information from Step 4 (M) E2 node (O-CU). Near-RT RIC requests reference signals and resource allocation Step 5 (M) information from E2 node (O-DU). Near-RT RIC obtains reference signals and resource allocation Step 6 (M) information from E2 node (O-DU). Near-RT RIC requests channel measurement and reporting Step 7 (M) configuration information from E2 node (O-DU). Near-RT RIC obtains channel measurement and reporting configuration Step 8 (M) information from E2 node (O-DU). Step 9 (O) Near-RT RIC may configure reference signals. Step 10 (O) Near-RT RIC may configure channel measurement and reporting. Near-RT RIC requests served radio bearers configuration information Step 11 (M) from E2 node (O-CU). Near-RT RIC requests traffic and channel information from E2 nodes Step 12 (M) (O-CU, O-DU). (Start of outer loop control) Step 13 (M) Near-RT RIC obtains UE connections and RRC states update from E2 node (O-CU). Near-RT RIC obtains reference signals and resource allocation update Step 14 (M) from E2 node (O-CU). Near-RT RIC obtains channel measurement and reporting configuration Step 15 (M) update from E2 Node (O-CU) Near-RT RIC obtains DRB/SRB configuration information from E2 node Step 16 (M) (O-CU). Near-RT RIC coordinates scheduling control of active DRB/SRB with E2 Step 17 (O) node (O-DU). (Start of inner loop control) Step 18 (M) Near-RT RIC obtains traffic and channel information from E2 nodes (O- CU, O-DU). Near-RT RIC uses the collected information to estimate channels and Step 19 (M) select UE groupings per ranges of frequency and time resources. Near-RT RIC calculates scheduling and MIMO parameters (MCS and Step 20 (M) precoding coefficients for each selection of UEs). <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Near-RT RIC sends scheduling and optimized MIMO parameters per slot per UE to E2 node (O-DU). Step 21 (M) Steps 18 to Step 21 may repeat. (End of inner loop control) E2 node (O-DU) schedules transmissions using the parameters Step 22 (M) received from the Near-RT RIC. Near-RT RIC sends updated reference signals configuration to E2 node Step 23 (O) (O-DU). Near-RT RIC sends updated DL channel measurement and reporting configuration to E2 node (O-DU). Step 24 (O) Step 13 to Step 24 may repeat. (End of outer loop control) Ends when MU-MIMO optimization is deactivated. Exceptions None identified. Post Conditions The E2 nodes operate using the newly received parameters. REQ-E2-MM-FUN1, REQ-E2-MM-FUN2, REQ-E2-MM-FUN5, REQ-E2-MM-FUN11, Traceability REQ-E2-MM-FUN12, REQ-E2-MM-FUN13, REQ-E2-MM-FUN14, REQ-E2-MM-FUN15 skin rose Autonumber Box “O-RAN” #lightpink information end end end end end@enduml The flow diagram of the MU-MIMO optimization is given in figure 4.4.3.3-1.

#### 4.4.3.4 AI/ML based CSI-RS and DMRS configuration optimization
This sub-use-case deals with GoB-based massive MIMO transmission (where the sender transmits reference signals for a grid of beams to the receiver), primarily used in FDD systems. Based on the relevant configuration by O-CU-CP, the O-DU periodically transmits the channel state information – Reference Signal (CSI-RS) via one or multiple beams per SSB beam that enables UEs to perform channel measurements, estimate the CSI and report the CSI in the uplink to the O-DU, that further enables the O-DU to choose the appropriate UE-specific beamforming weights (for transmission in the downlink). This is unlike the non-GoB-based massive MIMO transmission used primarily in TDD systems, which do not involve CSI-based beamforming, but which involve periodic Sounding Reference Signals (SRS) transmission in the uplink by the UE to the O-DU for determining the appropriate UE-specific beamforming weights based on channel reciprocity. Hence, GoB-based massive MIMO transmissions incur a higher overhead due to periodic transmission of CSI-feedback from the UE towards enabling the selection of optimal beamforming weights for the UE. Furthermore, based on the relevant configuration by O-CU-CP, the O-DU transmits the Demodulation Reference Signal (DMRS) to each UE that enables the UE to determine the UE-specific beamforming weights to decode the PDSCH (for reception in the downlink), containing the multiplexed MIMO layer data transmissions. The configuration of DMRS plays an important role on the performance of the network, e.g., for a fast-fading channel, an additional DMRS symbol can be provided per slot trading off higher overhead; for higher traffic-load, configuration type 2 can be used trading off frequency domain density; for low-latency KPI requirements, mapping type B can be used, etc. In this context, the sub-use-case describes a method to: 1) if necessary, update/modify the configuration of CSI-RS transmission (i.e., number of ports, port allocation over REs in a RB, transmission periodicity, transmission density/number of CSI-RS signal per RB, CSI-RS port to physical antenna port mapping/beamforming weights, number of CSI-RS beams per SS beam, etc.) and configuration of CSI-feedback (i.e., sub-band size, etc.) at non-real time (e.g., every 1 hr) based on the distribution of UE channel and traffic load. 2) if necessary, update/modify UE-specific beams indexes (e.g., PMIs when PMI-based beam management is enabled, P2 beamforming-weights/beam-indexes when P1-P2-based beam management is enabled, etc.) for a sequence of slots (i.e., at near-real time) based on the CSI-feedback received from UEs, etc. 3) if necessary, update/modify the configuration of DMRS (i.e., number of OFDM symbols carrying DMRS ports per slot, configuration type, etc.) for a sequence of slots (i.e., at near-real time) based on the relevant RAN state information such as CSI-feedback received from UEs, traffic load, etc. Towards achieving the goal, this sub-use-case utilizes the Near-Real-Time RAN Intelligent Controller (Near-RT RIC) and the Service Management Orchestration (SMO)/Non-Real-Time RAN Intelligent Controller (Non-RT RIC) framework of O-RAN ecosystem. The SMO/Non-RT RIC framework shall update/modify the configurations of CSI-RS transmissions and CSI-feedback reporting at the E2 nodes (e.g., O-DU). The Near-RT RIC shall update/modify the UE-specific GoB-based beams and the DMRS configurations at the E2 nodes (e.g., O-DU) for a sequence of slots. Specifically,
- the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework shall train AI/ML models to solve a joint two-stage optimization problem. In the
first stage, the configurations of CSI-RS transmission and CSI-feedback reporting are optimized for each cell. In the second stage, the GoB-based UE-specific beams and the configuration of DMRS are optimized for each cell.
- When the training is completed, the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework shall deploy the AI/ML model trained to optimize
GoB-based UE-specific beams and DMRS configurations to the Near-RT RIC.
- After that, based on the network dynamics, the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework shall update/modify the configurations
of CSI-RS transmissions and CSI-feedback reporting at the E2 nodes (e.g., O-DU).
- Based on the network dynamics and the trained AI/ML model received from the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework, the
Near-RT RIC shall update/modify the UE-specific GoB-based beams and the DMRS configurations at the E2 nodes (e.g., O-DU) for a sequence of slots. The goal of the optimization is to maximize the target KPIs under the constraints of configuration choices of CSI-RS transmission, CSI-feedback reporting, GoB-based UE-specific beams and DMRS transmission. The AI/ML models can exploit the relations of the channel properties and traffic load with the configuration parameters of CSI- RS and DMRS (e.g., relations between doppler-spread and time-domain properties, delay-spread and frequency-domain properties, angular spread and beam directions/indexes, traffic-load and number of ports, etc.) towards maximizing the target KPIs.

##### 4.4.3.4.1 Entities/resources involved in the use case
1) SMO/Non-RT RIC framework: a) Collect the necessary Configuration (CM) parameters, Performance Measurements (PM), Key Performance Indicators (KPI), and measurement report traces from the E2 nodes (O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, O-DU, O-eNB) via O1 interface. b) Collect the necessary UE-level observation and measurement data from the Near-RT RIC via O1 interface. c) Allow the rApp to receive the CMs, PMs, KPIs measurement data (collected via O1) to perform the AI/ML model training towards jointly optimizing i) the configurations of CSI-RS transmission (i.e., number of ports, port allocation over REs in a RB, transmission periodicity, transmission density/number of CSI-RS signal per RB, CSI-RS port to physical antenna port mapping/beamforming weights, etc.) and CSI-feedback reporting (i.e., sub-band size, etc.) which shall be updated/modified in non-real-time and ii) the UE-specific GoB-based beams (i.e., P2 beamforming- weights/beam-indexes when P1-P2-based beam management is enabled, PMI/PMI-RI/PMI-RI-LI when PMI-based beam management is enabled, etc.) and the configurations of DMRS (i.e., configuration type, mapping type, number of symbols carrying DMRS ports per slot, etc.) which shall be updated/modified in near-real-time. d) Receive the inferred configurations of CSI-RS transmissions and CSI-feedback reporting from the rApp via R1 interface. e) Write/update the optimized configurations of CSI-RS transmissions and CSI-feedback reporting via O1 interface to E2 nodes. f) Deploy the trained AI/ML model via O1/O2 interface and/or the enrichment information via A1 interface to the Near- RT RIC to update/modify the UE-specific GoB-based beams and DMRS configurations in near-real-time.
> NOTE: The requirements of SMO/Non-RT RIC framework are under the scope of WG2.
2) rApps: a) Retrieve the necessary Configuration (CM) parameters, Performance Measurements (PM), Key Performance Indicators (KPI), and measurement report traces pertaining to the E2 nodes and O-RU from the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework via R1 to train AI/ML model. b) Train AI/ML model to jointly optimize i) the configurations of CSI-RS transmission and CSI-feedback reporting which shall be updated/modified in non-real-time and ii) the UE-specific GoB-based beams and the DMRS configurations which shall be updated/modified in near-real-time. c) Infer the configurations of CSI-RS transmission and CSI-feedback reporting and write/update the inferred configuration to the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework via R1. d) Write/update the AI/ML model trained to optimize the UE-specific GoB-based beams and the DMRS configurations to the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework via R1. e) Monitor the performance of the respective cells. Upon KPI degradation, initiate rollback to the previous version of the AI/ML model, if any, and/or trigger the AI/ML model retraining. f) Execute the inference/control loop periodically or on an event-triggered based.
> NOTE: The requirements of rApps are under the scope of WG2.
3) Near-RT RIC: a) Subscribe and retrieve DL L1 measurements reported by individual UE such as CSI-feedback containing PMI (in the case of closed-loop MIMO transmission mode) or partial channel feedback (in the case of open-loop MIMO transmission mode, which is available as channel matrix, or its corresponding Eigen vectors of the wireless channel between the E2 node and the UE) over the E2 interface from the E2 nodes. b) Process, aggregate and report the UE-level data over O1 interface to the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework. c) Retrieve AI/ML model via O1/O2 interface and/or enrichment information via A1 interface from the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework and associate them with collected information over E2 interface (such as, CSI-feedback, etc.) towards inferring the slot-specific GoB-based beams/PMIs per UE and slot-specific DMRS configurations. d) Write/update the per-UE slot-specific GoB-based beams/PMIs and slot-specific DMRS configurations for a sequence of slots via E2 interface (to O-DU). e) Execute the inference/control loop periodically or on an event-triggered based. 4) E2 nodes: a) Report the desired performance measurements and KPIs, configuration parameters and CM changes, trace reports and measurements to the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework via the O1 interface. b) Report the DL L1 measurements reported by individual UE (such as, CSI-feedback, etc.) to the Near-RT RIC via the E2 interface. c) Receive the optimized CSI-RS transmission and CSI-feedback reporting configurations from the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework via O1 interface and apply the configuration on the O-DU which may further exercise the configuration update on the O-RU. d) Receive the per-UE slot-specific GoB-based beams/PMIs and slot-specific DMRS configurations for a sequence of slots from the Near-RT RIC via the E2 interface and apply the configuration on the O-DU which may further exercise the configuration update on the O-RU accordingly.

##### 4.4.3.4.2 Solutions
The context of AI/ML based CSI-RS and DMRS configuration optimization is captured in table 4.4.3.4.2-1. Steps Details Goal Optimizes the configuration parameters of CSI-RS and DMRS
- SMO/Non-RT RIC framework: Collects performance data and training data, allows rApp to access
the data, receives trained AI/ML model from rApp and deploys the trained model to Near-RT RIC, receives inferred configurations of CSI-RS transmission and CSI-feedback reporting from rApp and writes/updates the inferred configurations to E2 nodes.
- rApp: Trains AI/ML model to jointly optimize i) the configurations of CSI-RS transmission and CSI-
feedback reporting which shall be updated/modified in non-real-time and ii) the UE-specific GoB- based beams and the DMRS configurations which shall be updated/modified in near-real-time. Actors and Roles Infers the configurations of CSI-RS transmission and CSI-feedback reporting.
- Near-RT RIC: Infers per-UE slot-specific GoB-based beams/PMIs and slot-specific DMRS
configurations for a sequence of slots.
- E2 nodes and O-RU: Updates CSI-RS transmission and CSI-feedback reporting parameters as
per the recommendation received from the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework. Updates UE-specific GoB beamforming weights and DMRS configurations as per the recommendation received from the Near-RT RIC.
- All relevant functions and components are instantiated.
Assumptions - A1, O1 and E2 interface connectivity is established.
- A1 policy scope defined.
- Network is operational with default configuration.
- SMO/Non-RT RIC framework have configured a baseline measurement configuration and the rApp
has access to this data. Pre-conditions - Near-RT RIC has access to the necessary data related to DL L1 measurements reported by UEs such as CSI-Feedback containing PMI/RI/LI, CSI-RSRP, CSI-SINR, etc. from the E2 node.
- SMO/Non-RT RIC framework analyzes the historical data from RAN for training the relevant AI/ML
models to be deployed or updated in the Near-RT RIC, as well as AI/ML models required for non- real-time optimization of configurations. SMO/Non-RT RIC framework and/or Near-RT RIC perform data evaluation, determine that CSI-RS and Begins when DMRS optimization is required to be initiated or updated and establishes target(s). (Start of outer loop control) Step 1-2 (M) SMO/Non-RT RIC framework collects the necessary configurations, performance indicators, and measurement reports from E2 nodes and O-RUs via O1 interface. Steps Details Near-RT RIC collects DL L1 measurements reported by individual UE such as PMI, RI, LI, CQI, CSI- Step 3 (M) RSRP, CSI-SINR, SS-RSRP, etc. and DL L1, L2 information such as traffic load of individual UE from E2 node periodically or event-triggered. Near RT RIC processes, aggregates and reports the UE-level data over O1 interface to the SMO/Non- Step 4-5 (M) RT RIC framework. Step 6 (M) SMO/Non-RT RIC framework collects the target KPIs data. Step 7 (M) SMO/Non-RT RIC framework pre-processes the data to feed into the rApp. Step 8-9 (M) rApp trains AI/ML model. SMO/Non-RT RIC framework deploys the trained AI/ML model to Near-RT RIC via O1/O2 interface and Step 10-12 (M) sends optional A1 enrichment information such as the history of UE-specific GoB-based beams/PMIs. (Start of inner loop control) Step 13-14 (M) SMO/Non-RT RIC framework collects observation, measurement data from E2 nodes and feeds the data to rApps. Step 15-16 (M) rApp infers the configurations of CSI-RS transmission and CSI-feedback reporting and writes/updates the inferred configurations to SMO/Non-RT RIC framework. Step 17-18 (M) SMO/Non-RT RIC framework writes/updates the configurations of CSI-RS transmission and CSI- feedback reporting at E2 nodes which further exercise the configuration update on the O-RU. E2 nodes report the DL L1 measurements reported by individual UE such as PMI, RI, LI, CQI, CSI- RSRP, CSI-SINR, SS-RSRP, etc. and DL L1, L2 information such as traffic load of individual UE to Step 19-20 (M) Near-RT RIC. By associating the measurement data received from E2 nodes with the trained AI/ML model received from SMO/Non-RT RIC framework, Near-RT RIC infers the per-UE slot-specific GoB- based beams/PMIs and slot-specific DMRS configurations. Near-RT RIC writes/updates the per-UE slot-specific GoB-based beams/PMIs and slot-specific DMRS configurations for a sequence of slots to E2 nodes via E2 interface. Step 21-22 (M) Step 12 to Step 21 may repeat. (End of inner loop control) rApps continuously monitors KPIs in respective cells. In case of unsatisfactory performance, it initiates fallback and requests AI/ML model retraining/update. Then, rApp retrains/updates the respective AI/ML Step 23-30 (M) model(s). Step 1 to Step 29 may repeat. (End of outer loop control) Non-RT RIC decides to delete the CSI-RS and DMRS optimization AI/ML model and sends the related Ends when message or following internal trigger, the Near-RT RIC terminates the UE-specific beams/PMIs and DMRS optimization procedure. Exceptions None. Non-RT RIC continues to collect and monitor the CSI-RS and DMRS optimization related Post Conditions measurement data from E2 node. REQ-Near-RT-RIC-MM-FUN1, Traceability REQ-Near-RT-RIC-MM-FUN2, Steps Details REQ-Near-RT-RIC-MM-FUN3, REQ-Near-RT-RIC-MM-FUN4, REQ-E2-MM-FUN1, REQ-E2-MM-FUN2, REQ-E2-MM-FUN5, REQ-E2-MM-FUN11, REQ-E2-MM-FUN16 Box "Personnel" #lightblue Actor "Operator" as OPERATOR Box "Service Management and Orchestration" #gold Box "O-RAN Nodes" #lightpink Autonumber L1, L2 information (such as, traffic load etc.) of individual UE end end end configurations configurations end L2 information (such as, traffic load etc.) of individual UE DMRS configurations for a sequence of slots end end end end The overall procedure for CSI-RS and DMRS optimization for mMIMO GoB beamforming use case is given in figure 4.4.3.4.2- 1. use case

### 4.4.4 Required data
This clause elaborates the Near-RT RIC and the E2 node capabilities necessary for implementation of the massive MIMO optimization use case. The requirements are specified in clause 5.

#### 4.4.4.1 Control over E2
Non-Grid-of-Beams beamforming optimization Output data Interface Source → Name/Description Units Config. New or existing config Target Period, granularity E2 Near-RT RIC Non-GoB control/policy (non- index ~per N x New → O-DU GoB beamforming mode) 100ms, per UE Beam-based mobility robustness optimization Output data Interface Source → Name/Description Units Config. New or existing config Target Period, granularity E2 Near-RT RIC Cell Individual Offset (CIO) to dB ~per N x As specified in 3GPP TS → O-CU a given neighbor cell 100ms, per 38.331 [18], clauses beam or 5.3.5 and 5.5.4 beam group, per UE New: beam or beam (optional) configuration of CIOs E2 Near-RT RIC Time To Trigger (TTT) ms ~per N x As specified in 3GPP TS → O-CU 100ms, per 38.331 [18], clauses beam or 5.3.5 and 6.3.2 beam group, per UE New: beam or beam (optional) configuration of TTTs E2 Near-RT RIC UE Timer 310 (T310) ms ~per N x As specified in 3GPP TS → O-CU 100ms, per 38.331 [18], clauses beam or 5.8.8 and 6.3.2 beam group, New: beam or beam per UE group, per UE group group configuration of TTTs (optional) MU-MIMO optimization Output data Interface Source → Name/Description Units Config. New or existing config Target Period, granularity E2 Near-RT RIC CSI resource configuration mess ~per N x As specified in 3GPP TS → O-DU age 100ms, per 38.331 [18], clause 6.3.2 UE Output data Interface Source → Name/Description Units Config. New or existing config Target Period, granularity E2 Near-RT RIC CSI report configuration mess ~ per N x As specified in 3GPP TS → O-DU age 100ms, per 38.331 [18], clause 6.3.2 UE E2 Near-RT RIC SRS resource configuration mess ~ per N x As specified in 3GPP TS → O-DU age 100ms, per 38.331 [18], clause 6.3.2 UE E2 Near-RT RIC PDSCH configuration mess ~ per N x As specified in 3GPP TS → O-DU age 100ms, per 38.331 [18], clause 6.3.2 UE per BWP E2 Near-RT RIC MU-MIMO parameters per slot mess ~ per New → O-DU per UE age Nx1ms, per slot per SMG CSI-RS and DMRS optimization Output data Interface Source → Name/Description Units Config. New or existing config Target Period, granularity E2 Near-RT RIC Per-UE slot-specific GoB- mess ~per N x As specified in 3GPP TS → O-DU based beam configuration age 100ms 38.912 [46], clause (i.e., P2 beamforming- 8.2.1.6, 3GPP TS 38.211 weights/beam-index, PMI, RI, [45], clause 7.4.1.1 LI, etc.) and slot-specific DMRS configuration (i.e., number of OFDM symbols carrying a DMRS port per slot, mapping type, configuration type, etc.) for a sequence of slots

#### 4.4.4.2 UE context information from E2 nodes
<From O-DU> Input data Interface Source → Name/Descripti Units Reporting New or existing Applicable Target on Period, definition, sub-features granularity Existing Specification (Clause) E2 O-DU → UE ID ~per N x As specified in O- Non-GoB Near-RT RIC 100ms, per UE RAN.WG3.E2SM-v02.00 [25] New reporting Input data Interface Source → Name/Descripti Units Reporting New or existing Applicable Target on Period, definition, sub-features granularity Existing Specification (Clause) E2 O-DU → SRS slots ~per N x As specified in 3GPP TS Non-GoB Near-RT RIC configuration 100ms, per UE 38.331 [18], clause 6.3.2 periodicity “SRS-Config >periodicityAndOffset” New reporting E2 O-DU → CSI mess ~per N x As specified in 3GPP TS mUMO Near-RT RIC measurement age 100ms, per UE 38.331 [18], clause 6.3.2 configuration New reporting E2 O-DU → SRS mess ~per N x As specified in O- mUMO Near-RT RIC configuration age 100ms, per UE RAN.WG3.E2SM-RC- R003-v05.00 [42], clause 8.1.1.17 E2 O-DU → BWP mess ~per N x As specified in 3GPP TS mUMO Near-RT RIC configurations age 100ms, per UE 38.331 [18], clause 6.3.2 New reporting E2 O-DU → PDSCH of mess Infrequent, per As specified in 3GPP TS mUMO Near-RT RIC serving cell age UE 38.331 [18], clause 6.3.2 configuration New reporting <From O-CU> Input data Interface Source → Name/Descripti Units Reporting New or existing Applicable Target on Period, definition, sub-features granularity Existing Specification (Clause) E2 O-CU → UE ID and cell ~per N x As specified in O- mUMO Near-RT RIC ID of RRC 100ms, per UE RAN.WG3.E2SM-RC- connected UEs R003-v05.00 [42] E2 O-CU → RRC state ~per N x As specified in O- mUMO Near-RT RIC change 100ms, per UE RAN.WG3.E2SM-RC- R003-v05.00 [42], clause 9.3.37 E2 O-CU → MeasGapConfig mess ~per N x As specified in 3GPP TS mUMO Near-RT RIC age 100ms, per UE 38.331 [18], clause 6.3.2 New reporting E2 O-CU → Served radio mess ~per N x As specified in mUMO Near-RT RIC bearer age 100ms, per UE 3GPP TS 38.473 [21], configuration clause 9.2.2.1 3GPP TS 38.331 [18], clause 6.3.2 New reporting E2 O-CU → DRX mess ~per N x As specified in 3GPP TS mUMO Near-RT RIC configuration age 100ms, per UE 38.331 [18], clause 6.3.2 New reporting E2 O-CU → UE capabilities mess Infrequent, per As specified in 3GPP TS mUMO Near-RT RIC age UE 38.331 [18], clause 6.3.2 Existing reporting

#### 4.4.4.3 Measurements from E2 nodes
<From O-DU> Input data Interface Source → Name/Descripti Units Reporting New or existing definition, Applicable Target on Period, Existing Specification sub- granularity (Clause) features E2 O-DU → RSRP L1 dBm ~per N x As specified in Non-GoB Near-RT RIC measurement 100ms, per UE 3GPP TS 38.133 [26], L1/L2 BM (based on clause 10.1.6 synchronization 3GPP TS 38.215 [27], signal) clause 5.1.1 New reporting E2 O-DU → DL L1 SINR dB ~per N x As specified in Non-GoB Near-RT RIC measurement 100ms, per UE 3GPP TS 38.133 [26], L1/L2 BM (based on clause 10.1.16 synchronization 3GPP TS 38.215 [27], signal) clause 5.1.5 New reporting E2 O-DU → UL SRS RSRP dBm ~per N x As specified in Non-GoB Near-RT RIC measurement 100ms, per UE 3GPP TS 38.133 [26], clause 13.3.1 3GPP TS 38.215 [27], clause 5.2.5 New reporting E2 O-DU → Average DL UE Kb/s (non real-time As specified in Non-GoB Near-RT RIC throughput in + for training) 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause gNB with index 5.1.1.3.1 associated non- New reporting GoB BF mode New component is and MIMO associated non-GoB BF mode mode index and MIMO mode (SU/MU) E2 O-DU → Average UL UE Kb/s (non real-time As specified in Non-GoB Near-RT RIC throughput in + for training) 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause gNB with index 5.1.1.3.3 associated non- New reporting GoB BF mode New component is and MIMO associated non- GoB BF mode mode index and MIMO mode (SU/MU) E2 O-DU → SRS samples ~per N x 1ms, As specified in mUMO Near-RT RIC per SRS RE per O-RAN.WG4.CUS.0-R003- antenna port v13 [34], clause 8.3.5.2 New reporting E2 O-DU → DL channel mess ~per N x 10ms, As specified in mUMO Near-RT RIC quality age per UE 3GPP TS 38.212 [43], information clause 6.3 (PMi, RI, CQI) New reporting E2 O-DU → HARQ count ~per N x 10ms, As specified in mUMO Near-RT RIC ACK/NACK/DT per UE 3GPP TS 38.212 [43], X counts clause 6.3 New reporting E2 O-DU → DL RLC buffer count ~per N x 1ms, As specified in mUMO Near-RT RIC status per DRB per UE 3GPP TS 25.321 [41], clause 8.2.2 New reporting Input data Interface Source → Name/Descripti Units Reporting New or existing definition, Applicable Target on Period, Existing Specification sub- granularity (Clause) features E2 O-DU → MAC mess ~per N x 100ms As specified in mUMO Near-RT RIC timestamped age 3GPP TS 38.473 [21], slot number clause 9.3.1.171 New reporting E2 O-DU → CSI-feedback, mess ~per N x As specified in 3GPP TS CSI and Near-RT RIC such as cell- age 100ms, per UE 38.912 [46], clause DMRS opt. specific and 8.2.1.6.3, 3GPP TS 38.331 CSI-RS-beam- [18], clause 5.5.5.2, 3GPP index-specific TS 38.215 [27], clause 5.1 RSRP, RSRQ, SINR, etc. and SSB-beam- index-specific- RSRP per UE E2 O-DU → CSI-feedback, mess ~per N x As specified in 3GPP TS CSI and Near-RT RIC such as age 100ms, per UE 38.912 [46], clause DMRS opt. precoding 8.2.1.6.3, 3GPP TS 38.214 matrix indication [15], clause 5.2 (PMI), rank indication (RI), layer indication (LI) per UE E2 O-DU → Information mess ~per N x As specified in 3GPP TS CSI and Near-RT RIC about Quasi- age 100ms, per UE 38.214 [15], clause 5.1.5 DMRS opt. Co-Location (QCL) type between SSB and CSI-RS and between CSI- RS and DMRS per UE per cell E2 O-DU → Traffic load and mess ~per N x As specified in 3GPP TS CSI and Near-RT RIC radio resource age 100ms, per cell 28.552 [6] DMRS opt. utilization per UE per cell E2 O-DU → DRB-specific mess ~per N x As specified in O-RAN WG3 CSI and Near-RT RIC PDCP SDU age 100ms, per UE E2SM-KPM [36], O-RAN DMRS opt. data volume, WG3 E2SM-RC [37] DRB-specific RLC buffer occupancy and HARQ-specific Transport Block Size volume per UE <From O-CU> Input data Interface Source → Name/Descripti Units Reporting New or existing definition, Applicable Target on Period, Existing Specification sub- granularity (Clause) features E2 O-CU → Number of too count ~ 1 min, per As specified in 3GPP TS bMRO Near-RT RIC early HOs to a beam or beam 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.25 given neighbor group cell E2 O-CU → Number of too count ~ 1 min, per As specified in 3GPP TS bMRO Near-RT RIC late HOs to a beam or beam 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.25 given neighbor group cell E2 O-CU → Number of HO count ~ 1, per beam As specified in 3GPP TS bMRO Near-RT RIC to wrong cell to or beam group 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.25 a given neighbor cell E2 O-CU → Number of count ~ 1 min, per As specified in 3GPP TS bMRO Near-RT RIC requested beam or beam 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.6 legacy HO group executions (HO attempts) to a given neighbor cell E2 O-CU → Number of count ~ 1 min, per As specified in 3GPP TS bMRO Near-RT RIC successful beam or beam 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.6 legacy HO group executions to a given neighbor cell E2 O-CU → Number of count ~ 1 min, per As specified in 3GPP TS bMRO Near-RT RIC failed legacy beam or beam 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.6 HO executions group to a given neighbor cell E2 O-CU → Mobility failure mess Instantaneous New measurement and bMRO Near-RT RIC indication with age at failure event, new reporting root cause (too per beam or early HO, too beam group, late HO, HO to per UE wrong cell; ping- pong HO) and number of requested or number of successful HO executions at the time of failure E2 O-CU → PDCP buffer count ~per N x 1ms, As specified in 3GPP TS mUMO Near-RT RIC status per DRB per UE 38.323 [40], clause 5.6 New reporting
> NOTE: Measurements for bMRO to be associated with active beam pattern in case of GoB optimization.

#### 4.4.4.4 E2 node configuration
<From O-DU> Input data Interface Source → Name/Descripti Units Reporting New or existing definition, Applicable Target on Period, Existing Specification sub- granularity (Clause) features E2 O-DU → Number of count infrequent event New Non-GoB Near-RT RIC supported non- (> hours) GoB beamforming modes E2 O-DU → O-RU antenna mess Infrequent As specified in O- mUMO Near-RT RIC information age (~hours) RAN.WG4.MP.0-R003-v13 [35], clause D.3.8 New reporting E2 O-DU → O-DU supported mess Infrequent As specified in O- mUMO Near-RT RIC compression age (~hours) RAN.WG4.CUS.0-R003-v13 methods [34], clause 7.7.1.2 New reporting <From O-CU> Input data Interface Source → Name/Descripti Units Reporting New or existing definition, Applicable Target on Period, Existing Specification sub- granularity (Clause) features E2 O-CU → Served cell mess Infrequent As specified in 3GPP TS mUMO Near-RT RIC information age (~hours) 38.473 [21], clause 9.3.1.10 E2 O-CU → MIB mess Infrequent As specified in 3GPP TS mUMO Near-RT RIC age (~hours) 38.331 [18], clause 6.2.2 New reporting E2 O-CU → Serving cell mess Infrequent As specified in 3GPP TS mUMO Near-RT RIC SSB information age (~hours) 38.331 [18], clause 6.3.2 New reporting <To O-CU> Output data Interface Source → Name/Descripti Units Config. Period, New or existing definition, Applicable Target on granularity Existing Specification sub- (Clause) features E2 Near-RT RIC Beam grouping list infrequent event New bMRO → O-CU info (list of (> hours) beam group IDs with associated beam IDs)

## 4.5 QoE optimization
Based on the end-to-end requirements for the QoE optimization use case specified in [32] and in [28], some high-level functional description and requirements over Near-RT RIC and E2 interface are introduced.

### 4.5.1 Background and goal of the use case
The highly demanding 5G native applications like cloud VR are both bandwidth consuming and latency sensitive. However, for such traffic-intensive and highly interactive applications, current semi-static QoS framework can be insufficient to satisfy diversified QoE requirements especially taking into account potentially significant fluctuation of radio transmission capability. It is expected that QoE estimation/prediction can help deal with such uncertainty and improve the efficiency of radio resources, and eventually improve user experience. RAN Analytics Information (RAI) as RAN service can be exposed to RAI service consumers for specific UE (as specified in O-RAN.WG1.O-RAN-Architecture-Description-v06.00 [30], clause 4.5) or for groups of UE (per slice, per cell, per PLMN, etc.). RAI is envisioned to be helpful for the applications to improve the user experience. Near-RT RIC and E2 interface are leveraged to support this use case. Measurement data through E2 interface, e.g., cell level data, UE level data, can be acquired and processed via ML algorithms to support traffic recognition, QoE prediction, and QoS enforcement decisions. When requested, the analytics information, e.g., traffic rate, latency, packet loss rate, is exposed to the RAI service consumers to help applications execute logical control.

### 4.5.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case
1) Near-RT RIC: a) Support receiving request or subscription messages from RAI service consumer. b) Support receiving network state and UE performance report from RAN. c) Support data analysis and executing the AI/ML models to infer RAN analytics information, e.g., QoE prediction, and available bandwidth prediction. d) Support exposure RAN analytics information to RAI service consumer. 2) RAN: a) Support network state and UE performance report with required granularity to Near-RT RIC over E2 interface. 3) RAI service consumer: a) Request or subscribe to RAN analytics information from the Near-RT RIC. b) Support UE identification using data structure as specified in O-RAN.WG1.O-RAN-Architecture-Description-v06.00 [30], clause 4.

### 4.5.3 Solutions

#### 4.5.3.0 Introduction
This clause specifies solution components that can be combined into different solutions. A solution based on E2 control/policy consists of clause 4.5.3.1 and clause 4.5.3.2. Another solution based on RAN analytics information exposure consists of clause 4.5.3.1 and clause 4.5.3.3.

#### 4.5.3.1 AI/ML model training and distribution
Overall process shall be as specified in O-RAN.WG2.UCR [28], clause 4.2.3.1, however step 3 would be performed over O2 when and if “image based” ML model deployment option is selected (as specified in O-RAN.WG2.AIML [29], clause 7).

#### 4.5.3.2 Policy generation and performance evaluation
Editor’s note: to be defined based on requirements as specified in O-RAN.WG2.UCR [28], clause 4.2.3.2.

#### 4.5.3.3 RAN performance analytics assisted QoE optimization
RAN performance analytics can be requested by the RAI service consumer using either a request/response solution or a subscription-based solution. The context of RAN performance analytics assisted QoE optimization using request/response is captured in table 4.5.3.3-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Expose RAN analytics information to RAI service consumer for QoE Goal optimization. Actors and Roles Near-RT RIC, RAI service consumer, E2 nodes All relevant functions and components are instantiated. Assumptions RAI service consumer has obtained the necessary information to initiate request for QoE related RAI from the Near-RT RIC. QoE related ML models have been deployed in Near-RT RIC. Pre-conditions E2 interface is established to enable collection of measurements from E2 nodes. RAI service consumer decides to request RAN analytics information for Begins when QoE optimization. RAI service consumer requests for QoE related RAN analytics Step 1 (M) information from Near-RT RIC. Near-RT RIC initiates measurement data collection from E2 nodes via Step 2 (O) RIC subscription procedure. See NOTE 1. E2 node sends periodic measurement data to Near-RT RIC, received Step 3-4 (M) data is processed and stored. Near-RT RIC generates the RAN analytics information, using QoE Step 5 (M) related AI/ML models and collected measurement data. Near-RT RIC sends the RAN analytics information to RAI service Step 6 (M) consumer. Ends when RAI service consumer receives the RAN analytics information response. Exceptions None identified. RAI service consumer obtains RAI necessary for QoE optimization. Post Conditions Near-RT RIC may stop data collection.
> NOTE 1: Near-RT RIC may be configured to start collection of measurement data before requested by RAI service
consumer. Box “O-RAN” #lightpink Box “External” #lightcyan Loop Data collection end The flow diagram of the RAN performance analytics assisted QoE optimization using request/response is given in figure 4.5.3.3.- 1. The context of RAN performance analytics assisted QoE optimization using subscription-based solution is captured in table 4.5.3.3-2. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Expose RAN analytics information to RAI service consumer for QoE Goal optimization. Actors and Roles Near-RT RIC, RAI service consumer, E2 nodes All relevant functions and components are instantiated. Assumptions RAI service consumer has obtained the necessary information to initiate request for QoE related RAI from the Near-RT RIC. QoE related ML models have been deployed in Near-RT RIC. Pre-conditions E2 interface is established to enable collection of measurements from E2 nodes. RAI service consumer decides to subscribe to reports of RAN analytics Begins when information for QoE optimization. RAI service consumer initiates RAI subscription procedure for QoE Step 1 (M) related RAN analytics information from Near-RT RIC. Near-RT RIC may initiate measurement data collection from E2 nodes Step 2 (O) via RIC subscription procedure. See NOTE 1. Steps 3-5 loop with RAI service consumer receiving requested subscription-based reports. E2 node sends periodic measurement data to Near-RT RIC, received Step 3-4 (M) data is processed and stored. Near-RT RIC generates the RAN analytics information, using QoE Step 5 (M) related AI/ML models and collected measurement data. Near-RT RIC sends the RAN analytics information to RAI service Step 6 (M) consumer. Ends when RAI service consumer initiates RAI subscription delete procedure. Exceptions None identified. RAI service consumer obtains RAI necessary for QoE optimization. Post Conditions Near-RT RIC may stop E2 node data collection.
> NOTE 1: Near-RT RIC may be configured to start collection of measurement data before requested by RAI service
consumer. Box “O-RAN” #lightpink Box “External” #lightcyan app <-> near : 1. RAI Subscription procedure for QoE optimization Loop Until subscription terminated Loop Data collection end end app <-> near : RAI Subscription Delete procedure The flow diagram of the RAN performance analytics assisted QoE optimization using subscription-based solution is given in figure 4.5.3.3-2.

### 4.5.4 Required data
This clause elaborates the Near-RT RIC and the E2 node capabilities necessary for implementation of the QoE optimization use case, especially for RAN performance analytics. The requirements are specified in clause 5.

#### 4.5.4.1 UE context information from E2 nodes
The followings are examples of UE context information identified as required:
- UE ID
- List of S-NSSAI
- List of QoS related ID, eg., 5QI, QFI
For example, UE ID, S-NSSAI or QoS related ID can be used to collect, analysis and predict the resource occupation of each user, slice or service, eg. maximum/average throughput, maximum/average latency, average packet loss rate.

#### 4.5.4.2 Measurements from E2 nodes
o o o o e a e a r R r R

# R C

# R A S u s c rip tio n p ro c e d u re fo r o E o p

# E 2 > > R C S u s c rip tio n p ro c e d u re R
u c r o e r e c o e c o

# E 2 > > R C n d ic a tio n R e p o rt
ro c e s s a n d s to re d a ta

# R A a n a ly tic s in fo rm a tio n e n e ra tio n

# R A R e p o rt R A a n a ly tic s in fo rm a tio n

# R A S u s c rip tio n D e le te p ro c e d u re

# E 2 > > R C S u s c rip tio n D e le te p ro c e d u

# R C
tim e p re i a tio o rt R e p o n e a s rt u re e a m s u e n re ts m e n E ts E o o d d e e s s R R A A s s e e r r ic ic e r e c o e c o n n s s u u m m e e r r The E2 measurements are necessary for inference and prediction in the Near-RT RIC as the driver for decisions in addition to KPMs. For the QoE optimization use case, especially for RAN performance analytics, the Near-RT RIC receives the request or subscription from RAI service consumer and subscribes and receives the measurement data from O-CU/O-DU through E2 interface. Based on it, with QoE related AI/ML models, the Near-RT RIC infers the RAN analytics information, and exposes it to RAI service consumer. The examples of cell-level, UE-level, and slice-level measurement information are listed in table 4.5.4.2-1 below. Measurement Type Measurement Examples 1. MCS Distribution in PDSCH (available at DU; as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.12.1) 2. DL/UL Total PRB usage (available at DU; as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.2.1 and 5.1.1.2.2 and in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clauses 4.5.3 and 4.5.4) 3. Distribution of DL/UL Total PRB usage (available at DU; as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.2.3 and 5.1.1.2.4 and in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clauses 4.5.10 and 4.5.11) 4. DL/UL PRB used for data traffic (available at DU; optionally split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.2.5 and 5.1.1.2.7) 5. DL/UL PRB usage for traffic (per QCI, as specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clauses 4.5.1 and 4.5.2) 6. DL/UL Total available PRB (available at DU; as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.2.6 and 5.1.1.2.8) 7. DL/UL PRB full utilization (as specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clauses 4.5.9.1 and 4.5.9.2) Cell-level L2 8. Total number of DL/UL TBs (available at DU; split into subcounters per layer at MU-MIMO case, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.7.3 and 5.1.1.7.8 and in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clauses 4.5.7.1 and 4.5.7.3) 9. Total error number of DL/UL TBs (available at DU; split into subcounters per layer at MU-MIMO case, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.7.4 and 5.1.1.7.9 and in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clauses 4.5.7.2 and 4.5.7.4) 10. Average DL UE throughput in gNB (available at DU; optionally split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.3.1) 11. Distribution of DL UE throughput in gNB (available at DU; optionally split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.3.2) 12. Packet Delay (available at DU and CU-UP; optionally split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.3.3) 13. RAN part packet delay components (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.314 [16], clause 4.2.1.2) 14. Packet Delay (per QCI, as specified in 3GPP TS 36.314 [9], clause 4.1.4) Measurement Type Measurement Examples 15. DL/UL Cell PDCP SDU Data Volume (available at CU-UP; per PLMN ID and per QoS level (mapped 5QI) and per S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.2.1 for non-split gNB, clause 5.1.3.6.2 for split gNB; per PLMN ID and per E-RAB QoS profile (QCI, ARP and GBR), as specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clause 4.4.7) 16. Mean number of Active UEs in the DL/UL per cell (available at DU; optionally split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.23.1 and 5.1.1.23.3) 17. Max number of Active UEs in the DL/UL per cell (available at DU; optionally split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.23.2 and 5.1.1.23.4) 18. Average number of Active UEs (per QCI, as specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clause 4.4.2) 19. Packet Loss Rate (available at CU-UP or DU; optionally split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.3.1) 20. Packet Loss Rate (per QCI, as specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clause 4.4.4) 21. DL Packet Drop Rate (available at CU-UP or DU; optionally split into subcounters per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and subcounters per supported S-NSSAI, as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.3.2) 22. DL Packet Drop Rate (per QCI, as specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clause 4.4.3.2) 1. SINR (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]) Radio channel info 2.RSRP (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]) in CU-CP 3.RSRQ (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]) CQI, MCS DL/UL UE throughput DL/UL UE PRB usage RLC buffer size UE-level RLC occupied buffer RLC unused buffer L2 UL/DL MAC rate Packet Delay Packet Interval Packet Jitter, eg. Packet Interval Jitter, Packet Size Jitter Data volume (per UE, as specified in 3GPP TS 36.314 [9], clause 4.1.8) Data volume (per UE) Measurement Type Measurement Examples Packet Loss Rate per DRB per UE (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.314 [16], clause 4.2.1.5) Block Error Rate DL Packet Drop Rate Total number of RLC SDUs/PDUs DL/UL UE PRB usage RLC buffer size RLC occupied buffer RLC unused buffer UL/DL MAC rate Packet Delay Packet Interval Slice-level L2 Packet Jitter, eg. Packet Interval Jitter, Packet Size Jitter Data volume (per QCI, as specified in 3GPP TS 36.314 [9], clause 4.1.8) Data volume (per 5QI) Packet Loss Rate per DRB per UE Block Error Rate DL Packet Drop Rate (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.3.2) Total number of RLC SDUs/PDUs

### 4.5.5 RAN analytics information exposed by Near-RT RIC
Based on the measurements from E2 nodes, with QoE related AI/ML models, the Near-RT RIC infers the RAN analytics information and expose it to RAI service consumer. The exposed RAN analytics information will be helpful for the applications to evaluate network status and execute logic control, e.g., TCP transmission window adjustment, video coding rate selection to improve QoE. The examples of RAN analytics information are listed in table 4.5.5-1 below. Measurement Type Measurement Examples 1. Minimum/maximum/average throughput Predicted RAN 2. Minimum/maximum/average latency performance 3. Average packet loss rate 4. QoE prediction UE-level Prediction related 1. Confidence information 2. Validity period

## 4.6 Network energy saving
This use case provides the motivation, description, and requirements for Near RT RIC and E2 interface to support network energy saving, whose end-to-end requirements are specified in [32]. The RAN is responsible for the majority of the Energy Consumption (EC) of a mobile network, and the O-RU consumes the largest part of the energy consumption of the RAN. The rarefication of fossil fuel-based energy resources and the urgent need to reduce CO emissions make energy saving a strategic goal for network operators, in addition to the significant energy related OPEX reduction requirement. Energy consumption can be reduced by improving the Energy Efficiency (EE) of the network, and by introducing different Energy Saving (ES) mechanisms. Several ES mechanisms are related to switching off certain components and resources in the network and differ from one another by their time scale. In a longer time-scale of minutes, hours and above, and when the cell load is low, ES can be achieved by switching off one or more carriers or the cell itself. At the same or shorter time-scale, from seconds to minutes, ES can be achieved by switching off RF channels (including possibly array of antennas) of a Massive-MIMO (mMIMO) system. At a shorter time-scale corresponding to a symbol, subframe and frame, Advanced Sleep Modes (ASM) can be considered (see ORAN-WG1.Use Cases Energy Saving Technical Report R003 v02.00 [i.4], 3GPP TR 28.813 [i.5] and 3GPP TS 28.310 [33]). The ES use cases are divided into three sub-use cases, which have different properties, the time scale of the control and the controlled system involved: 1. Carrier and cell switch off/on 2. RF channel reconfiguration 3. Advanced Sleep Modes Another mechanism to achieve ES is to apply PRB blanking optimization. Blanking the PRBs saves power in many components in the O-RU due to the reduced input/output power and processing load. PRB blanking also supports interference reduction in a multi-cell environment. PRB blanking optimization is applicable to all three time-scales (longer time-scale of minutes or above, shorter time-scale from seconds to minutes as well as even shorter time-scale corresponding to a symbol, subframe and frame).

### 4.6.1 Carrier and cell switch off/on

#### 4.6.1.1 Background and goal of the use case
Carrier and cell switch off/on control by the Non-RT or Near-RT RIC can consider overall network energy efficiency instead of local optimization. In addition to the ES optimization in the SMO/Non-RT RIC, optimizing network EC in the Near-RT RIC brings significant gains due to more UE centric, near-real-time intelligent control capabilities with finer granularity. The AI/ML models' functionality in the Near-RT RIC can include prediction of future traffic, user mobility, resource usage, QoS and QoE on a per UE basis and may also predict expected energy efficiency enhancements, resource usage, and network performance for different carrier and cell switching off/on options. Based on the predicted results, optimized ES control actions or policies can be given by the Near-RT RIC to E2 nodes in near-real-time manner to track the dynamic network conditions. ES control also includes preparation actions (before carrier and cells are switched off) and post control actions (after carrier and cells are switched on) such as checking ongoing emergency calls and warning messages, enabling/disabling/modifying carrier aggregation and/or dual connectivity, steering traffic and handing over UEs from source cells/carriers to other cells/carriers, changing MU- MIMO layers, beam scheduling policies and SSB burst configurations etc, which can be handled in the Near-RT RIC by the intelligent and UE centric RAN control capabilities coordinated with the SMO/Non-RT RIC. The goal of Near-RT RIC energy saving is to interpret the policies received over A1 and to determine the optimum changes it can make according to these policies. More specifically, Near-RT RIC triggers E2 procedure and related control/policies so as to obtain network performance that would fulfill the criteria identified in the A1 policies. It may also leverage the A1 enrichment information to make more informed decisions. Traffic steering may reuse mechanisms provided by other use cases to affect the changes necessary to achieve its goals. The Near-RT RIC may also work in background processing without the A1 policy guidance from the Non-RT RIC.

#### 4.6.1.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case
1) Near-RT RIC: a) Near-real-time monitoring of energy saving related performance measurements. b) Receive energy saving xApps from SMO. c) Support interpretation and enforcement of A1 policies from Non-RT RIC. d) Support enrichment information via the A1 interface. e) Perform optimized RAN (E2) actions to achieve ES requirements based on O1 configuration, A1 policy, A1 enrichment information and E2 reports. 2) E2 node: a) Support ES optimization actions or policy enforcements via E2. b) Support ES related performance measurements through O1. c) Support ES related performance reports through E2.

#### 4.6.1.3 Solution
There are three general ES processing modes and the transitions between them. The three processing modes, baseline, background and A1 policy-based, as described in clause 4.1.3 for traffic steering use case applies to the energy saving use case as is except that the modes represent the way the Near-RT RIC operates on a given E2 node rather than UE specific. The context of ES optimization by carriers and cell switching off/on is captured in table 4.6.1.3-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Drive energy saving cell switching off/on optimization in accordance with RAN Goal OAM configured background behavior (mode 1) or policies information from the Non-RT RIC using A1 interface (mode 2).
- Non-RT RIC in SMO domain: Creates and updates A1 policies, provide A1
enrichment information.
- Near-RT RIC: Enforces A1 policies and generates RIC CONTROL and/or
POLICY. Actors and Roles - E2 node: RIC CONTROL and POLICY execution and RIC REPORT creation. Refer to 4.6.1.2 for more details.
- All relevant functions and components are instantiated.
Assumptions - A1, O1 and E2 interface connectivity is established.
- A1 policy scope defined.
- Network is operational with default configuration.
- OAM functions have configured a baseline measurement configuration and
the Non-RT RIC has access to this data.
- OAM functions have configured baseline traffic steering parameters in E2
node(s) through O1 interface. Pre-conditions - (optional) If ES mode 1, OAM functions have configured background ES behavior to the Near-RT RIC through O1 interface.
- Non-RT RIC analyzes the historical data from RAN for training the relevant
AI/ML models to be deployed or updated in the Near-RT RIC, as well as AI/ML models required for non-real-time optimization of configuration and policies. Energy saving optimization by cell switching off/on is activated or an operator Begins when defined trigger is detected. (Start of outer loop control) Step 1 (O) If ES mode 1, OAM functions collect data from E2 node through O1 interface. Step 2 (O) Non-RT RIC retrieve ES related performance data from OAM function. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Non-RT RIC evaluates the collected data and A1 policy feedback, if required, Step 3 (O) and generates or updates the appropriate ES optimization policy, such as ES targets and carrier/cell switching off/on guidance, etc. Step 4 (O) Non-RT RIC sends the ES optimization policy to Near-RT RIC via A1 interface. Step 5 (O) Non-RT RIC sends optional ES related A1 enrichment information. Step 6 (O) If ES mode 2, Near-RT RIC collects data from E2 node through E2 interface. Near-RT RIC evaluates the collected data, if required, generates or updates the Step 7 (O) internal background mode ES optimization targets or policies. (Start of inner loop control) Step 8 (M) Near-RT RIC subscribes to a UE context information and measurement metrics via E2 interface. E2 nodes report the UE context information and E2 measurements via RIC Step 9 (M) REPORT periodically or event-triggered. Near-RT RIC evaluates the performance data from E2 nodes and finds potential Step 10 (M) improvements to energy efficiency which are indicated in the A1 policy and/or internal Near-RT RIC TS targets. Based on the UE context information, E2 measurement metrics (RIC REPORT), and A1 policy, Near-RT RIC may generate new or modify the existing E2 policies and sends them to E2 nodes. E2 node functions target of E2 policy may be:
- E-UTRAN-NR dual connectivity
Step 11 (O)
- Carrier aggregation
- Connected mode mobility
- Idle mode mobility
- Radio access control
- Cell switching off/on control
Near-RT RIC may also generate control command(s) and send them to E2 node(s) to trigger re-allocation of radio resources and switching off/on carrier and cells so that the overall network energy efficiency can be improved. Step 12 (O) E2 node functions target of E2 control command may be:
- Same as Step 11
(End of inner loop control) For ES mode 2, Near RT-RIC may send A1 policy feedback on A1 to the Non- Step 13 (O) RT RIC. (End of outer loop control) Non-RT RIC decides to delete ES optimization policy in case of ES mode 2 and Step 14 (O) sends the related messages. Following A1 policy deletion (mode 2) or internal trigger (mode 1), the Near-RT Step 15,16 (M) RIC terminates the ES optimization procedure and delete the related RIC subscriptions. Ends when ES optimization is deactivated, or an operator defined trigger is detected. Exceptions None. Energy saving over a period of time is achieved. Post Conditions REQ-E2-ES-FUN1, REQ-E2-ES-FUN2, REQ-Near-RT-RIC-ES-FUN1, REQ- Traceability Near-RT-RIC-ES-FUN2，REQ-Near-RT-RIC-ES-FUN3 Box “Service Management and Orchestration” #gold Box “O-RAN” #lightpink OAM <--> ran : (Mode 2) <<O1>> RAN Data collection end end The flow diagram of the ES optimization by carriers and cell switching off/on is given in figure 4.6.1.3-1.

#### 4.6.1.4 Required data
This clause elaborates the Near-RT RIC and the E2 node capabilities necessary for implementation of the ES carrier and cell switch off/on use case. The requirements are specified in clause 5.

##### 4.6.1.4.1 Control over E2
1) Radio access control: Access control may be applied to restrict access of other UEs for a specific cell in order to prepare for switching off the cell to save energy. A cell-level, UE-level, or slice-level access control can be applied. Four categories of radio access control are indicated as below:
- RACH backoff
- RRC connection reject
- RRC connection release
- Access barring
Both RIC POLICY and RIC CONTROL can be used. 2) Mobility control: For example, a neighbouring cell may be selected in order to switch off the current serving cell. A neighbour handover restriction list may be configured to prevent the UEs from HO to some neighbour cells in order to reduce traffic load of the neighbour cells and switch them off.
- Handover from the source cell to the target cell
- Configuration/reconfiguration of handover restriction list
- Configuration of idle mode mobility parameters
- Enable, disable, or modify CA (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.473 [21], 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11])
- Enable, disable, or modify dual connectivity (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.473 [21], 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS
36.331 [11]) Both RIC POLICY and RIC CONTROL can be used. 3) Carriers and cell switch off/on control: Depending on the traffic condition, certain number of carriers and cells can be switched off by the Near-RT RIC by sending guidance to the E2 node when the traffic is low in order to save energy. When the network conditions deteriorate (e.g., congested traffic, frequent handover failure and/or RA failure), carrier/cell switch- on control command could be sent to E2 node in E2 policy/control to activate the cell/carrier from energy saving and hence ensure network performance.
> NOTE: Once E2 node receives the guidance from Near-RT RIC for switching off/on a cell/carrier, it is not expected that the
cell/carrier can be switched off immediately. The E2 node can take time to do all necessary actions to prepare for switching off/on the carrier/cell and there is also a delay in O-RU and open fronthaul interface for switching off/on the cell/carrier. However, it is still expected, as specified in [32], that the Near-RT RIC to send this intent to the E2 node to start the process for cell/carrier switching off/on after the network performance and energy efficiency are jointly optimized through for example traffic steering and QoS/QoE optimisation by the Near-RT RIC through 1) and 2). The E2 node (e.g., O-CU-CP) can optionally do traffic steering and OoS optimisation upon receiving this command from the Near-RT RIC before triggering the cell/carrier switching off/on. Either RIC POLICY or RIC CONTROL can be used which is not addressed in the present document.

##### 4.6.1.4.2 UE context information from E2 nodes
The followings are examples of UE context information identified as required:
- UE ID (as specified in [32])
- Slice level: S-NSSAI
- DRB level: e.g., established DRB ID, mapping with QoS flows, etc.
- QoS related: e.g., E-RAB level QoS parameters (4G, NSA) or QoS flow level QoS parameters (NG-RAN)
- UE capabilities: CA and DC capabilities
For example, UE ID, S-NSSAI, DRB ID, or QCI/5QI can be used to derive the QoS requirements and the resource occupation; the UE capabilities may be required to select the appropriate RRM action (e.g., CA/DC configuration).

##### 4.6.1.4.3 Measurements from E2 nodes
The E2 measurements are necessary for inference and prediction in the Near-RT RIC as the driver for decisions in addition to KPMs. For the energy saving carrier and cell switch off/on use case, the Near-RT RIC can translate an A1 policy (relatively static targets) into a flexible selection of controls over E2 (e.g., handover control, DC, CA, idle mode mobility, carrier and cell switching off/on) by taking into account the RAN resource utilization, cell level and the UE level performance, the radio and traffic conditions, QoS and QoE requirements and energy consumption and efficiency etc. The examples of measurement information identified as required are listed in table 4.6.1.4.3-1. Measurement Measurement Examples Type
- DL/UL Total PRB Usage, Distribution of DL/UL Total PRB Usage, DL/UL GBR PRB
Usage, DL/UL non-GBR PRB Usage, RRC Connection Number, Available RRC Connection Capacity Value, Mean and Maximum Number of Active UEs per DRB in the DL/UL, DL/UL Scheduling PDCCH CCE Usage, DL/UL Composite Available Capacity, DL/UL Cell PDCP SDU Data Volume (including secondary RAT usage for EN-DC/MR- Cell/SSB area DC), Handover success ratio related - DL/UL SSB Area Total PRB Usage, DL/UL SSB Area GBR PRB Usage, DL/UL SSB measurements Area non-GBR PRB Usage, SSB Area Capacity Value
- DL/UL PRB usage per QCI, DL/UL PRB usage per 5QI, DL/UL PRB usage per slice,
Slice Available Capacity Value As specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], 3GPP TS 36.314 [9], 3GPP TS 38.314 [16], 3GPP TS 38.423 [19], 3GPP TS 38.463 [20] and 3GPP TS 38.473 [21]
- Average DL/UL throughput
- DL/UL PRB usage
- DL/UL Scheduled IP throughput
E2 node user plane
- Buffer Status Information (e.g., UL BSR)
measurements per- UE/UE group As specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], 3GPP TS 36.314 [9], 3GPP TS 38.314 [16], 3GPP TS 38.423 [19], 3GPP TS 38.473 [21], 3GPP TS 38.463 [20], 3GPP TS 36.321 [10], 3GPP TS 38.321 [17]
- RSRP and RSRQ measurements
- SINR measurements
UE L1/L2/L3 - CQI/MCS measurements measurements - Location and Velocity measurements As specified in 3GPP TS 36.331 [11] and 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] Energy consumption measurement of O-RU Energy
- PNF Power Consumption (average/min/max)
consumption
- PNF Energy Consumption (average/min/max)
measurement As specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6] Mobility and RA related KPIs/measurements from the E2 nodes hosting the target NES cell(s) and/or the neighbour cell(s) to the target NES cell(s) Mobility and RA - Handover failure related, e.g., number of handover failures related to MRO related - RACH failure related, e.g., distribution of RACH access delay KPIs/measurements - Radio link failure reports of UE/UE group - UE context release related, e.g., number of UE context release requests As specified in 3GPP TS 36.331 [11], 3GPP TS 38.331 [18], 3GPP 32.425 [7], 3GPP 28.552 [6]

##### 4.6.1.4.4 E2 node configuration
Cell level configuration parameters in order to configure UE measurements required for traffic steering and QoS/QoE optimization (see clause 4.1.4.4) for optionally preparing for and optimizing network performance and efficiency before cell/carrier switching off/on.

### 4.6.2 Advanced sleep mode

#### 4.6.2.1 Background and goal of the use case
During DL transmission or UL reception, certain O-RU components (e.g., PA, LNA and baseband etc) can be powered off during blank OFDM symbols and slots. For power saving at the symbol level, PA and LNA can be turned off since their transition period (on to off and off to on) can be in a few microseconds (micro sleep). For power saving at slot level, additional HW can be turned off to save more energy if the transition time allowed is in a few milliseconds (light sleep). For power saving at frame level, even more HW can be turned off (e.g., only maintain O-RU M-plane processing) however higher transition delay, in 100 msec, is expected. For micro and light sleeps, Near-RT RIC can play important roles which based on AI/ML solutions can help to create more sleeping opportunities in the E2 nodes to save energy by e.g., steering traffic, influencing traffic shaping/scheduling, and adjusting common channel (SS/RS) configurations etc. For deep sleeps, where traffic prediction and more capacity, coverage, accessibility and QoS/QoE impacts awareness is needed because of the long-term traffic interruption (e.g., >100ms), Near-RT RIC is the sensible place to guide the system into deep mode due to the rich UE centric data and AI/ML solutions available in the Near-RT RIC. The goal of Near-RT RIC energy saving is to interpret the policies received over A1 and to determine the optimum changes it can make according to these policies. More specifically, Near-RT RIC triggers E2 procedure and related control/policies so as to obtain network performance that would fulfill the criteria identified in the A1 policies. It may also leverage the A1 enrichment information to make more informed decisions. Traffic steering may reuse mechanisms provided by other use cases to affect the changes necessary to achieve its goals. The Near-RT RIC may also work in background processing without the A1 policy guidance from the Non-RT RIC.

#### 4.6.2.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case
See clause 4.6.1.2.

#### 4.6.2.3 Solution
The three processing modes, baseline (mode 0), background (mode 1) and A1 policy-based (mode 2), as described in clause 4.1.3 for traffic steering use case applies to this use case also as is except that the modes represent the way the Near-RT RIC operates on a given E2 node rather than UE specific. The context of energy saving ASM optimization is captured in table 4.6.2.3-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Drive energy saving Advanced Sleep Mode (ASM) optimization in accordance Goal with RAN OAM configured background behavior (ES mode 1) or policies information from the Non-RT RIC using A1 interface (ES mode 2).
- Non-RT RIC in SMO domain: Creates and updates A1 policies, provide A1
enrichment information.
- Near-RT RIC: Enforces A1 policies and generates RIC CONTROL and/or
POLICY. Actors and Roles - E2 node: RIC CONTROL and POLICY execution and RIC REPORT creation. Refer to 4.6.2.2 for more details.
- All relevant functions and components are instantiated.
Assumptions - A1, O1 and E2 interface connectivity is established.
- A1 policy scope defined.
- Network is operational with default configuration.
- OAM functions have configured a baseline measurement configuration and
the Non-RT RIC has access to this data.
- OAM functions have configured baseline ES parameters in E2 node(s)
through O1 interface. Pre-conditions - (optional) If ES mode 1, OAM functions have configured background ES behavior to the Near-RT RIC through O1 interface.
- Non-RT RIC analyzes the historical data from RAN for training the relevant
AI/ML models to be deployed or updated in the Near-RT RIC, as well as AI/ML models required for non-real-time optimization of configuration and policies. Energy saving ASM optimization is activated, or an operator defined trigger is Begins when detected. (Start of outer loop control) Step 1 (O) If ES mode 2, OAM functions collects data from E2 node through O1 interface. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Step 2 (O) Non-RT RIC retrieve ES related performance data from OAM function. Non-RT RIC evaluates the collected data and A1 policy feedback, if required, Step 3 (O) and generates or updates the appropriate ES optimization policy, such as energy saving and performance targets and ASM guidance, etc. Step 4 (O) Non-RT RIC sends the ES optimization policy to Near-RT RIC via A1 interface. Step 5 (O) Non-RT RIC sends optional ES related A1 enrichment information. Step 6 (O) If ES mode 1, Near-RT RIC collects data from E2 node through E2 interface. Near-RT RIC evaluates the collected data, if required, generates, or updates Step 7 (O) the internal background mode ES optimization targets or policies. (Start of inner loop control) Step 8 (M) Near-RT RIC subscribes to a UE context information and measurement metrics via E2 interface. E2 nodes report the UE context information and E2 measurements via RIC Step 9 (M) REPORT periodically or event triggered. Near-RT RIC evaluates the performance data from E2 nodes and finds potential Step 10 (M) improvements to energy efficiency which are indicated in the A1 policy and/or internal Near-RT RIC TS targets. Based on the UE context information, E2 measurement metrics (RIC REPORT), and A1 policy, Near-RT RIC may generate new or modify the existing E2 policies and sends them to E2 nodes. E2 node functions target of E2 policy may be: Step 11 (O) - Mobility control
- Radio access control
- ASM scheduler policy setting
- Common channel configurations
- Sleep mode configurations
Near-RT RIC may also generate control command(s) and send them to E2 node(s) to trigger the reconfiguration of radio resources, traffic steering, reconfiguration of common channels and entering/leaving deep sleep mode. Step 12 (O) E2 node functions target of E2 control command may be:
- Same as Step 11
(End of inner loop control) For ES mode 2, Near RT-RIC may send A1 policy feedback on A1 to the Non- Step 13 (O) RT RIC. (End of outer loop control) Non-RT RIC decides to delete ES optimization policy in case of ES mode 2 and Step 14 (O) sends the related messages. Following A1 policy deletion (mode 2) or internal trigger (mode 1), the Near-RT Step 15,16 (M) RIC terminates the ES optimization procedure and delete the related RIC subscriptions. Ends when ES optimization is deactivated, or an operator defined trigger is detected. Exceptions None. Energy saving over a period of time is achieved. Post Conditions REQ-Near-RT-RIC-ES-FUN1, REQ-Near-RT-RIC-ES-FUN2, REQ-Near-RT- Traceability RIC-ES-FUN4, REQ-E2-ES-FUN2, REQ-E2-ES-FUN3, REQ-E2-ES-FUN4， REQ-E2-ES-FUN5 Box “Service Management and Orchestration” #gold Box “O-RAN” #lightpink OAM <--> ran : (Mode 2) <<O1>> RAN Data collection end end The flow diagram of the energy saving ASM optimization is given in figure 4.6.2.3-1.

#### 4.6.2.4 Required Data
This clause elaborates the Near-RT RIC and the E2 node capabilities necessary for implementation of the ES ASM use case. The requirements are specified in clause 5.

##### 4.6.2.4.1 Control over E2
1) Radio access control: Access control may be applied to restrict access of other UEs for a specific cell in order to create more sleeping opportunities for the cell. A cell-level, UE-level, or slice-level access control can be applied. Four categories of radio access control are indicated as below:
- RACH backoff
- RRC connection reject
- RRC connection release
- Access barring
Both RIC POLICY and RIC CONTROL can be used. 2) Mobility control: In order to reduce traffic load to create more sleeping opportunities on the targeted cells, serving cell can be chosen based on the resource status and QoS of the UE(s) and a neighbour handover restriction list may be configured to prevent the UEs from HO to some neighbour cells. The following procedures can be used for mobility control:
- Handover from the source cell to the target cell
- Configuration/reconfiguration of handover restriction list
- Configuration of idle mode mobility parameters
- Enable, disable, or modify CA (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.473 [21], 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11])
- Enable, disable, or modify dual connectivity (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.473 [21], 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS
36.331 [11]) Both RIC POLICY and RIC CONTROL can be used. 3) NES related radio resource control, such as configuration common channel periodicities and semi-persistent scheduling (SPS) to create more sleep opportunities including the following types of configurations:
- SR periodicity reconfiguration (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]): Both sr-ProhibitTimer
and sr-TransMax can be treated.
- SPS configuration (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]): Both SPS-Config (DL) and
ConfiguredGrantConfig (UL) can be treated.
- CSI-RS periodicity configurations.
- Common channel periodicity configurations.
> NOTE: UE DTX/DRX slots overwrite the SR and SPS configurations since during DTX/DRX, SR and SPS transmission will
be deactivated. SSB periodicity may be reconfigured by the Near-RT RIC (if the capability is exposed by the E2 node) on some cells such that the O-RU can have longer sleep duration which enables deeper sleep (more hardware components can be switched off) to save energy, however, the performance impact to UEs needs to be taken care by the operator and xApp/E2 node vendors. Both RIC POLICY and RIC CONTROL can be used. 4) ASM mode objectives: Configuration of ASM mode objectives to the E2 node which can include:
- Energy saving target, e.g., targeted energy saving in percentage of current average energy consumption or energy saving
levels (e.g., maximum energy saving, medium energy saving, maximum performance etc.).
- UE or cell level performance targets, e.g., throughput cap, throughput drop tolerance, latency target.
- Preferred sleep mode, as specified in O-RAN.WG4.MP.0-R003-v13 [35], clause 20.4.1, sleep-mode-type of asm-
capability-info. Either RIC POLICY or RIC CONTROL can be used.
> NOTE: After the objectives are configured, the E2 node shall try to achieve the objectives, however, whether the objectives can
be met depends on the real traffic conditions and E2 node implementations. The E2 node reports if the ASM performance objective is applied and taken into operation. The E2 node also reports the related KPIs, as defined in clause 4.6.1.4.3, for Near- RT RIC to assess the performance changes comparing against the objectives and make further optimisation actions. 5) Sleep mode configuration: Depending on the current and predicted future traffic conditions, the Near-RT RIC may guide O-DU to move the carriers into sleep mode. Following the guidance, O-DU may decide to disable (“move to sleep mode”) array carriers, tx-arrays or rx-arrays or the whole O-RU accordingly via the O-FH C-plane in order to save energy (see O- RAN.WG4.CUS.0-R003-v13 [34], table 7.4.6-7). The guided configurations can include:
- Indication of the slot numbers, symbol numbers and the conditions for the sleep mode configuration to be applied.
- The sleep mode (as specified in O-RAN.WG4.MP.0-R003-v13 [35], clause 20.4.1, sleep-mode-type of asm-capability-
info) to be applied during the sleep period indicated in 1 above. Either RIC POLICY or RIC CONTROL can be used.
> NOTE: After the configuration, the E2 node shall try to achieve the configured sleep mode behaviour if the conditions are met,
however, it is up to the E2 node to decide when and whether the configuration can be applied depending on the on-going traffic conditions within the E2 node. The E2 node reports if the sleep mode configuration is applied. The E2 node also report the related KPIs, as defined in clause 4.6.1.4.3, for Near-RT RIC to assess the performance changes comparing against the objectives and make further optimisation actions.

##### 4.6.2.4.2 UE context information from E2 nodes
See clause 4.6.1.4.2.

##### 4.6.2.4.3 Measurements from E2 nodes
See clause 4.6.1.4.3

##### 4.6.2.4.4 E2 node configuration
Cell level configuration parameters in order to configure UE measurements required for traffic steering and QoS/QoE optimization (see clause 4.1.4.4) for creating more sleeping opportunities to save energy while maintaining acceptable performance. O-RU and O-DU advanced sleep mode capabilities, as specified in O-RAN.WG4.MP.0-R003-v13 [35], clause 20.4.1, asm- capability-info, along with information about the mapping from cells to sector carriers and to O-RU are retrieved from O-DU in order to generate applicable and optimized energy saving related policies and controls.

### 4.6.3 RF channel reconfiguration

#### 4.6.3.1 Background and goal of the use case
In mobile networks, massive-MIMO array antennas are used to implement beamforming techniques, which boost the cell coverage, capacity, and spectrum efficiency for enhanced mobile broadband services. Due to the massive number of the active antenna elements and RF channels used in the massive-MIMO array, it can consume significantly more energy than conventional antenna solution. The goal of the RF channel reconfiguration energy saving use case is to reduce the power consumption of O- RUs for massive-MIMO by dynamically reconfiguring the number of active Tx/Rx array antenna elements. When the traffic load is low, fewer beams or MU-MIMO spatial layers are needed, therefore, fewer Tx/Rx array antenna elements can be active which can be reconfigured from Near-RT RIC dynamically leading to significant power savings. The number of active antenna element and the antenna element layout also have an impact to the signal coverage and spatial channel orthogonality translating to impact to the UE service of quality, which need to be handled by the Near-RT RIC to avoid the impact to the performance or finding the trade-off between energy saving and performance. The goal of Near-RT RIC energy saving is to interpret the policies received over A1 interface. Based on policy and the current or predicted traffic and channel conditions, the Near-RT RIC then derive the best choices for O-RU Tx/Rx array configurations including e.g. number of active antenna element, antenna element layout, SU/MU MIMO layers etc and provide guided configurations to the O-DU. Following the guidance, O-DU may decide to disable (“putting to sleep”) some or all array elements in a tx-array or rx-array (or both) accordingly via the O-FH C-plane in order to save energy (see O-RAN.WG4.CUS.0-R003-v14 [38], clause 7.2.9.2.3).

#### 4.6.3.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case
See clause 4.6.1.2.

#### 4.6.3.3 Solution
The context of energy saving RF channel reconfiguration optimization is captured in table 4.6.3.3-1. Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Drive energy saving RF channel reconfiguration optimization in accordance with Goal RAN OAM configured background behavior (ES mode 1) or policies information from the Non-RT RIC using A1 interface (ES mode 2).
- Non-RT RIC in SMO domain: Creates and updates A1 policies, provide A1
enrichment information.
- Near-RT RIC: Enforces A1 policies and generates RIC CONTROL and/or
POLICY. Actors and Roles
- E2 node: RIC CONTROL and POLICY execution and RIC REPORT
creation. Refer to 4.6.3.2 for more details. Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification
- All relevant functions and components are instantiated.
Assumptions - A1, O1 and E2 interface connectivity is established.
- A1 policy scope defined.
- Network is operational with default configuration.
- OAM functions have configured a baseline measurement configuration and
the Non-RT RIC has access to this data.
- OAM functions have configured baseline ES parameters in E2 node(s)
through O1 interface. Pre-conditions - (optional) If ES mode 1, OAM functions have configured background ES behavior to the Near-RT RIC through O1 interface.
- Non-RT RIC analyzes the historical data from RAN for training the relevant
AI/ML models to be deployed or updated in the Near-RT RIC, as well as AI/ML models required for non-real-time optimization of configuration and policies. Energy saving RF channel reconfiguration optimization is activated, or an Begins when operator defined trigger is detected. (Start of outer loop control) Step 1 (O) If ES mode 2, OAM functions collects data from E2 node through O1 interface. Step 2 (O) Non-RT RIC retrieve ES related performance data from OAM function. Non-RT RIC evaluates the collected data and A1 policy feedback, if required, Step 3 (O) and generates or updates the appropriate ES optimization policy, such as energy saving and performance, etc. Step 4 (O) Non-RT RIC sends the ES optimization policy to Near-RT RIC via A1 interface. Step 5 (O) Non-RT RIC sends optional ES related A1 enrichment information. Step 6 (O) If ES mode 1, Near-RT RIC collects data from E2 node through E2 interface. Near-RT RIC evaluates the collected data, if required, generates or updates Step 7 (O) the internal background mode ES optimization targets or policies. (Start of inner loop control) Step 8 (M) Near-RT RIC subscribes to a UE context information and measurement metrics via E2 interface. E2 nodes report the UE context information and E2 measurements via RIC Step 9 (M) REPORT periodically or event-triggered. Near-RT RIC evaluates the performance data from E2 nodes and finds potential Step 10 (M) improvements to energy efficiency or potential gap to A1 policy and/or internal Near-RT RIC ES targets. Based on evaluation in Step 10, Near-RT RIC may generate new or modify the existing E2 policies and sends them to E2 nodes. E2 node functions target of E2 policy may be:
- Connected mode mobility
Step 11 (O)
- Idle mode mobility
- Radio access control
- RF channel reconfiguration policy setting
- Common channel configurations (SSB, CSI-RS)
- TX/RX array configuration change
Near-RT RIC may also generate control command(s) and send them to E2 node(s) to trigger the reconfiguration of radio resources, traffic steering, reconfiguration of common channels and entering/leaving deep sleep mode. Step 12 (O) E2 node functions target of E2 control command may be:
- Same as Step 11
(End of inner loop control) For ES mode 2, Near RT-RIC may send A1 policy feedback on A1 to the Non- Step 13 (O) RT RIC. (End of outer loop control) Non-RT RIC decides to delete ES optimization policy in case of ES mode 2 and Step 14 (O) sends the related messages. Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Following A1 policy deletion (mode 2) or internal trigger (mode 1), the Near-RT Step 15,16 (M) RIC terminates the ES optimization procedure and delete the related RIC subscriptions. Ends when ES optimization is deactivated, or an operator defined trigger is detected. Exceptions None. Post Conditions Energy saving over a period of time is achieved. REQ-Near-RT-RIC-ES-FUN1, REQ-Near-RT-RIC-ES-FUN2, REQ-Near-RT- RIC-ES-FUN3, REQ-Near-RT-RIC-ES-FUN5, REQ-Near-RT-RIC-ES-FUN6, Traceability REQ-E2-ES-FUN2, REQ-E2-ES-FUN4, REQ-E2-ES-FUN6, REQ-E2-ES- FUN7 Box “Service Management and Orchestration” #gold Box “O-RAN” #lightpink OAM <--> ran : (Mode 2) <<O1>> RAN Data collection end end The flow diagram of the energy saving RF channel reconfiguration optimization is given in figure 4.6.3.3-1.

#### 4.6.3.4 Required data
This clause elaborates the Near-RT RIC and the E2 node capabilities necessary for implementation of the ES RF channel reconfiguration use case. The requirements are specified in clause 4.

##### 4.6.3.4.1 Control over E2
1) Radio access control: See clause 4.6.2.4.1. 2) Mobility control: See clause 4.6.2.4.1. 3) NES related radio resource control: See clause 4.6.2.4.1 4) TRX control performance objectives: Configuration of TRX control performance objectives to the E2 node which can include:
- Energy saving target, e.g. targeted energy saving in percentage of current average energy consumption or energy saving
levels (e.g., maximum energy saving, medium energy saving, maximum performance, etc.).
- UE or cell level performance targets, e.g., throughput cap, throughput drop tolerance, latency target.
Either RIC POLICY or RIC CONTROL can be used.
> NOTE: After the objectives are configured, the E2 node shall try to achieve the objectives, however, whether the objectives can
be met depends on the real traffic conditions and E2 node implementations. The E2 node reports if the TRX control objective is applied and taken into operation. The E2 node also reports the related KPIs, as defined in clause 4.6.1.4.3, for Near-RT RIC to assess the performance changes comparing against the objectives and make further optimisation actions. 5) TRX control configuration: Depending upon the current and future traffic predictions, the Near-RT-RIC may guide the O- DU to perform O-RU RF channel reconfigurations to reduce the overall power consumption of the O-RU. Following the guidance, O-DU may decide to disable (“putting to sleep”) some or all array elements in a tx-array or rx-array (or both) accordingly via the O-FH C-plane in order to save energy (O-RAN.WG4.CUS.0-R003-v14 [38], Table 7.4.6-7). The guided configurations can include:
- Indication of the slot numbers, symbol numbers and the conditions for the TRX control configuration to be applied.
- Indication of the array elements to be switched off during the period indicated above based on the TRX control capability
information reported by the E2 node (O-DU), see clause 4.6.3.4.4. The capability information includes antenna mask values supported by the O-RU, see O-RAN.WG4.MP.0-R003-v14 [39], clause 20.3.1, trx-control-capability-info, for more details.
- The sleep mode (see O-RAN.WG4.MP.0-R003-v14 [39], clause 20.3.1, sleep-mode-type of trx-control-capability-info)
to be applied during the sleep period indicated above. Either RIC POLICY or RIC CONTROL can be used.
> NOTE: After the configuration, the E2 node shall try to achieve the configured behaviour if the conditions are met, however, it
is up to the E2 node to decide when and whether the configuration can be applied depending on the on-going traffic conditions within the E2 node. The E2 node reports if the TRX control configuration is applied. The E2 node also report the related KPIs, as defined in clause 4.6.1.4.3, for Near-RT RIC to assess the performance changes comparing against the objectives and make further optimisation actions. Both RIC POLICY and RIC CONTROL can be used.

##### 4.6.3.4.2 UE context information from E2 nodes
See clause 4.6.1.4.2.

##### 4.6.3.4.3 Measurements from E2 nodes
See clause 4.6.1.4.3.

##### 4.6.3.4.4 E2 node configuration
Cell level configuration parameters in order to configure UE measurements required for traffic steering and QoS/QoE optimization (see clause 4.1.4.4) for creating more RF channel reconfiguration opportunities to save energy while maintaining acceptable performance. O-RU and O-DU TRX control capabilities, see O-RAN.WG4.MP.0-R003-v14 [39], clause 20.3.1, trx-control-capability-info, along with information about the mapping from cells to sector carriers and to O-RU are retrieved from O-DU in order to generate applicable and optimized energy saving related policies and controls.

### 4.6.4 PRB blanking optimization

#### 4.6.4.1 Background and goal of the use case
Blanking the PRBs saves power in many components in the O-RU due to the reduced input/output power and processing load. In addition, PRB blanking is being supported in clause 8.4.2 of WG4 Control, User and Synchronization Plane Specification as Data blanking [38] to meet objectives such as energy saving. Specifically, in clause 8.4.2.2, it said “PRB blanking is an inherent feature of the frequency-domain-based fronthaul split 7-2x, where unallocated PRBs are not sent across the fronthaul interface to reduce the fronthaul throughput. An unallocated PRB is a PRB with all REs unallocated”. Currently, an O-DU can blank the PRBs during scheduling taking local performance targets such as energy consumption into consideration, and then signal the blanked or activated PRBs to O-RU via C-plane Section Type 1 messages. However, the Near-RT RIC is not able to send configurations/policies regarding PRBs to be blanked to an O-DU to influence the MAC scheduler behaviours for optimizing PRB allocations to meet different performance targets in a network with multiple cells. PRB blanking has also been leveraged to achieve interference optimization in a network with multiple cells as specified in use case 26 of WG1 Use Cases Detailed Specification R004 v15.00.01 [49]. PRB blanking optimization by the Near-RT RIC can consider overall network performance improvements for both uplink and downlink including energy efficiency with system-level optimization instead of local-level optimization by an O-DU alone. Furthermore, the AI/ML models' functionality in the Near-RT RIC can include prediction of future traffic, user mobility, resource usage, QoS and QoE on a per UE basis and may also predict expected energy efficiency enhancements, resource usage, network performance and interference reduction for different PRB blanking optimization options. Based on the predicted results, optimized PRBs blanking control actions or policies can be given by the Near-RT RIC to E2 nodes in near-real-time manner. The Near-RT RIC sends the two-dimensional (in both frequency and time domains) PRB blanking configurations or policies for uplink and/or downlink to each O-DU to consider for cells of interest in a multi-cell environment based on the evaluation of performance measurements collected and performance targets required. The performance measurements collected include e.g., EC, EE achieved, QoS including throughput and latency as well as interference. The performance targets include e.g., EC, EE, QoS and interference reduction. The Near-RT RIC decides the two-dimensional PRB blanking configurations or policies which include how many PRBs to blank and where those PRBs are in the frequency and time domain based on the trade-off analysis. The O-DU takes the PRB blanking configurations or policies as an input for its scheduler to make final resource allocations decision.

#### 4.6.4.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case
1) Near-RT RIC: a) Receive PRB blanking optimization xApps. b) Monitor performance measurements in EE, QoS and interference. c) Perform optimized RAN (E2) actions to achieve performance targets based on E2 reports. 2) E2 node: a) Support PRB blanking optimization actions or policy enforcements via E2. b) Support PRB blanking optimization related performance reports through E2.

#### 4.6.4.3 Solution
The context of PRB blanking optimization is captured in table 4.6.4.3-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Drive PRB blanking optimization in accordance with information from the E2 Goal nodes.
- Near-RT RIC: Generates RIC CONTROL and/or POLICY.
Actors and Roles - E2 node: RIC CONTROL and POLICY execution and RIC REPORT creation.
- All relevant functions and components are instantiated.
Assumptions
- E2 interface connectivity is established.
Pre-conditions - Network is operational with default configuration. PRB blanking optimization for performance targets including ES is activated, or Begins when an operator defined trigger is detected. Near RT RIC generates or updates the appropriate PRB blanking optimization Step 1 (M) policy such as data to collect as well as performance targets including ES. Step 2 (M) Near-RT RIC collects data from E2 node through E2 interface. Step 3 (M) Near-RT RIC evaluates the collected data. Near-RT RIC subscribes to a UE context information and measurement metrics Step 4 (M) via E2 interface. E2 nodes report the UE context information and E2 measurements via RIC Step 5 (M) REPORT or INDICATION. Near-RT RIC evaluates the data from E2 nodes and finds potential performance Step 6 (M) improvements including ES which are indicated in the performance targets. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Near-RT RIC generates two-dimensional PRB blanking optimization control and sends them to E2 node(s) or generates PRB blanking optimization policy so that Steps 7, 8 (O) the overall network performance including ES can be optimized. PRB blanking optimization is deactivated, or an operator defined trigger is Step 9 (M) detected. Step 10 (M) RIC SUBSCRIPTION DELETE Ends when PRB blanking optimization stops. Exceptions None. Post Conditions PRB blanking optimization over a period of time is achieved. REQ-Near-RT-RIC-ES-FUN7 REQ-E2-QoS-FUN1, REQ-E2-QoS-FUN2, REQ-E2-QoS-FUN3, REQ-E2- Traceability QoS-FUN4, QoS-FUN7, QoS-FUN8, REQ-E2-ES-FUN2, REQ-E2-ES-FUN8, REQ-E2-ES-FUN9 Box “O-RAN” #lightpink policy The flow diagram of the performance targets optimization including ES by PRB blanking optimization is given in figure 4.6.4.3- 1.

#### 4.6.4.4 Required data
This clause elaborates the Near-RT RIC and the E2 node capabilities necessary for implementation of the PRB blanking optimization use case. The requirements are specified in clause 5.

##### 4.6.4.4.1 Control over E2
1) Radio resource allocation. Near-RT RIC provides direct control for PRB blanking configurations to be applied at the E2 node. Configurations at cell level include:
- Configurations of two-dimensional PRBs to be blanked which is defined as configurations of PRB number to be
blanked in the frequency domain within a time slot, and in the time domain across time slots. Both RIC POLICY and RIC CONTROL can be used. 2) PRB blanking policy. Near-RT RIC provides policies to E2 node that describe ES target and other performance related targets the PRB blanking policies should achieve. The targets for performance objectives to the E2 node may include:
- Energy saving target, e.g., targeted energy saving in percentage of current average energy consumption or energy saving
levels (e.g., maximum energy saving, medium energy saving, maximum performance, etc.).
- Cell level and UE performance targets, e.g. throughput cap, throughput drop tolerance, latency target.
- Interference reduction target.
- Preferred number of active or blanked PRBs.
Either RIC POLICY or RIC CONTROL can be used.

##### 4.6.4.4.2 UE context information from E2 nodes
The followings are examples of UE context information identified as required:
- UE ID (as defined in [24])
- Slice level: S-NSSAI
- DRB level: e.g., established DRB ID, mapping with QoS flows, etc.
- QoS related: e.g., E-RAB Level QoS Parameters (4G, NSA) or QoS Flow Level QoS Parameters (NG-RAN).
- UE capabilities: CA and DC capabilities

##### 4.6.4.4.3 Measurements from E2 nodes
The E2 measurements are necessary for inference and prediction in the Near-RT RIC as the driver for decisions in addition to KPMs. For the PRB blanking optimization use case, the Near-RT RIC evaluates performance measurements and performance targets and then produces E2 controls (e.g., PRB blanking configurations or policies) by considering the RAN resource utilization, cell level and the UE level performance, the radio and traffic conditions, QoS and QoE requirements, energy consumption and efficiency and interference, etc. The examples of measurement information identified as required are listed in table 4.6.4.4.3-1. Measurement Measurement Examples Type
- DL/UL Total PRB Usage, Distribution of DL/UL Total PRB Usage, DL/UL GBR PRB
Usage, DL/UL non-GBR PRB Usage, RRC Connection Number, Available RRC Connection Capacity Value, Mean and Maximum Number of Active UEs per DRB in the DL/UL, DL/UL Scheduling PDCCH CCE Usage, DL/UL Composite Available Capacity, DL/UL Cell PDCP SDU Data Volume (including secondary RAT usage for EN-DC/MR- DC), Handover success ratio Cell/SSB area - DL/UL SSB Area Total PRB Usage, DL/UL SSB Area GBR PRB Usage, DL/UL SSB related Area non-GBR PRB Usage, SSB Area Capacity Value measurements - DL/UL PRB usage per QCI, DL/UL PRB usage per 5QI, DL/UL PRB usage per slice, Slice Available Capacity Value
- UL interference per cell
- UL interference per PRB per cell
- UL interference per PRB per antenna branch per cell
As specified in 3GPP TS 38.314 [16], 3GPP TS 38.463 [20], 3GPP TS 38.473 [21], 3GPP TS 38.423 [19]
- Average DL/UL throughput
- DL/UL PRB usage
E2 node user plane
- DL/UL Scheduled IP throughput
measurements per-
- Buffer Status Information (e.g., UL BSR)
UE/UE group As specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], 3GPP TS 38.314 [16], 3GPP TS 38.423 [19], 3GPP TS 38.473 [21], 3GPP TS 38.463 [20], 3GPP TS 38.321 [17]
- RSRP, SS-RSRP and RSRQ measurements
- SINR measurements
- CQI measurements
UE L1/L2/L3
- MCS measurements
measurements
- Location and Velocity measurements
- Timing advance measurements
As specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18], 3GPP TS 28.552 [6] Energy consumption measurement of O-RU Energy
- PNF Power Consumption (average/min/max)
consumption
- PNF Energy Consumption (average/min/max)
measurement As specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6] Mobility and RA related KPIs/measurements from the E2 nodes hosting the target NES cell(s) and/or the neighbour cell(s) to the target NES cell(s) Mobility and RA related - Handover failure related, e.g., number of handover failures related to MRO KPIs/measurements - RACH failure related, e.g., distribution of RACH access delay of UE/UE group - Radio link failure reports
- UE context release related, e.g., number of UE context release requests
As specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18], 3GPP 28.552 [6]

##### 4.6.4.4.4 E2 node configuration
Cell level configuration parameters are needed at Near-RT RIC to support PRB blanking optimization. O-RU and O-DU TRX control capabilities, see O-RAN.WG4.MP.0-R003-v14 [39], clause 20.3.1, trx-control-capability-info, along with information about the mapping from cells to sector carriers and to O-RU are retrieved from O-DU to generate applicable and optimized performance including energy saving related policies and controls.

## 4.7 Interference detection and optimization
This use case provides the motivation, description, and requirements for the Near-RT RIC and E2 interface to support interference detection and optimization, whose end-to-end requirements are specified in [49]. 3GPP LTE and 5G networks are deployed based on the design objective of having a frequency reuse factor of one for the whole network (i.e., all cells in a network use the same frequency) due to limited radio resources. As a result, there is a need to leverage interference management techniques to mitigate inter-cell interference to improve QoS for users, especially at the cell edge. How to detect and then optimize interference is of great importance for cellular wireless networks. 3GPP specifies multiple categories of interference management techniques to support interference optimization. The first category is based on the principle of inter-cell interference coordination. It has three sub-categories: Inter-Cell Interference Coordination (ICIC), enhanced ICIC (eICIC), and further enhanced ICIC (feICIC) where ICIC works in the frequency domain, eICIC in the time domain and feICIC in the UE domain. For ICIC, if the two-dimensional (in frequency and time) RBs for data channels to be scheduled in a cell can be shared and coordinated with other neighboring cells, interference of UEs near the cell edge can be mitigated. ICIC can leverage the following mechanisms.
- Restricting scheduling RBs: The RBs used by a group of users in one geographical area (e.g., in the cell edge) for a cell
is not scheduled by the neighboring cells. It is to avoid simultaneous transmission in the cell edge from neighboring cells.
- Adjustment of the power level on physical channels.
ICIC can be implemented in a static or dynamic way. Static ICIC is achieved when the network operator manually manages cell configurations which become overly complex in practical deployments and are typically slow to adapt to changes in the network. Dynamic ICIC is required for fast adaptation of the interference scenarios, and exchange of signaling messages over X2/Xn interfaces among neighboring cells to convey scheduling decisions are needed to support interference optimization [12][19]. The ICIC concept was the origin of PRB blanking. For UL, the High Interference Indicator (HII) and Overload Indicator (OI) are available [12]. The HII informs the neighboring cells of the RBs to be scheduled for UEs as a proactive mechanism. With this information, the neighboring cells can avoid scheduling the same RBs for the UEs near the interfering cell. The OI informs the neighboring cells of the interference levels received on various two-dimensional resources (low, medium and high) as a reactive mechanism. With this information, the neighboring cells can a) reduce transmit power level, b) not schedule those RBs for UEs near the cell edge or c) not schedule those RBs at all. For DL, the Relative Narrowband Transmit Power (RNTP) informs the neighboring cells of the transmit power level per RB, including the RNTP threshold and RNTP bitmap of all RBs [12]. In the RNTP bitmap each bit indicates if the transmit power of an RB would exceed the RNTP threshold. With this information, the power allocation for UEs near the cell edge can be dynamically adjusted in a coordinated way. A cell can request load measurements from neighboring cells via Resource Status Reporting where the load measurements include DL and UL PRB usages [19]. For eICIC, cells exchange coordinated messages with its neighbors to allow the scheduler to create Almost Blank Subframes (ABS) in the time domain to mitigate interference at the UEs. The ABS contains no data traffic, but common Reference Signals (RSs) are still transmitted. Muted subframes should be avoided in subframes that transmit critical information Critical control channels (including System Information Block [SIB] 1 and paging), and broadcast (Master Information Block [MIB]) information are required in these subframes to avoid radio link failure for legacy UEs. For feICIC (also called the terminal-based interference management technique), interference cancellation is implemented at the UE for the critical control physical channels or signals that eICIC cannot handle (e.g., synchronization signals, reference signals, broadcast channel, etc.). The second category of interference management is based on carrier aggregation. In carrier aggregation, multiple carriers are aggregated at a cell. There are three types of carrier aggregation.
- Contiguous aggregation of component carriers in a single band
- Non-contiguous aggregation of component carriers in a single band
- Non-contiguous aggregation of component carriers over multiple bands
The original goal of carrier aggregation was to improve the data rate (i.e., throughput) for a UE since a UE can utilize multiple frequency carriers to communicate with a cell where the multiple frequency carriers can be from the same spectrum band or different spectrum bands. However, carrier aggregation can also be used as an interference optimization mechanism to improve spectral energy dispersal. The third category is based on Coordinated Multipoint (CoMP), which works in the spatial domain. CoMP is for multiple cells to coordinate with each other to jointly transmit and receive information to a single UE. CoMP performs coordinated scheduling and beam forming on a UE to improve performance in an interference environment (by minimizing interference). CoMP is similar to the soft handover concept in Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA). To trigger interference optimization, interference detection (including detecting the interference energy, classifying the interference source types, identifying the interference levels, and locating the interference source in terms of a geographical location) is required. In addition to LTE and 5G interference, other non-3GPP types of interference experienced in a 5G network, including internal and external RF interference, also need to be detected and optimized. Thanks to the open interface, the virtualization and intelligent functionalities provided by the O-RAN architecture, multi-cell- based collaborative real-time interference detection and optimization schemes can be realized. The operation and performance evaluation for interference detection and optimization in real-time should be conducted based on interference-related data focusing on a specific UE, UE group, RAN slice, PRBs or mMIMO beams, which is the primary target of improvement. The Near-RT RIC ensures optimal radio resource allocation for a UE, UE group, RAN slice, PRBs, and mMIMO beams through the E2 interface to improve the efficiency of radio resource utilization and interference optimization.

### 4.7.1 Background and goal of the use case
More background information for interference detection can be found in [49][i.6]. Interference detection includes the following steps:
- Detection of interference energy
- Classification of interference source type
- Identification of the interference level
- Locating an interference source
The data generated from E2 nodes to support interference detection can be based on the following:
- per cell (e.g., UL/DL loading per cell, UL interference per cell, UL interference per PRB per cell)
- per sector
- per beam (e.g., UL interference per PRB per antenna branch per cell)
- per direction (e.g., data is from the direction of multiple beams)
- per UE or per group of UEs
- per range (e.g., data is from those UEs within a certain range of a cell)
- per pattern (e.g., uplink RSSIs pattern or uplink PRB interference pattern)
where data per cell, per sector, per UE or per group of UEs have been supported in the O-RAN WG3 E2SM-KPM [36]. The xApps process the data from E2 nodes to support the interference detection objective. Specific data required include: 1) Network level measurements, including a) UE level information: e.g., Channel State Information (CSI) reports including CQI (per UE or per UE slice), Precoding Matrix Indicator (PMI) with beam indicator, layer indication, rank indication as well as SINR, MCS, UL/DL RSRP, SS-RSRP (for serving cell and neighboring cells), SS-SINR, throughput, DU/UL PRB usage, mMIMO beams, Buffer Status Report (BSR), Power Headroom Report (PHR), location, velocity and timing advance. Note that to monitor CSI measurements for supporting channel measurement, channel estimation and interference measurement, E2 control or policy need to allocate cell resources and provide cells information transmission strategy for the serving cell and its intra-frequency neighboring cells for CSI-related RSs including Non-Zero Power (NZP) CSI-RS and CSI Interference Measurement (CSI-IM) containing zero power resource elements [49]. b) Cell level information: e.g., DL/UL PRB usage, throughput, uplink interference including UL interference per cell, UL interference per PRB in a cell, and UL interference per PRB of an antenna branch per cell as specified in WG3 UCR use case 6. Note that to support UL interference per PRB in a cell, E2 control or policy needs to send information for the UL PRBs to be monitored. 2) Received power measurements (i.e., Received Signal Strength Indicators [RSSIs]) from O-RU directly or indirectly via O- DU as specified in [39], clause 21. After the xApps achieve the interference detection objective, the xApps determine a combination of the interference optimization mechanisms to achieve the interference optimization objective in real-time. The following is a list of interference optimization mechanisms that manage resources in time, frequency, space and power domains to achieve the objective of interference optimization.
- Traditional cellular RF design techniques: antenna down-tilt and antenna azimuth orientation
- Traditional cellular RF design technique: transmit power level adjustment at E2 node
- Power control
- PRB blanking
- Carrier aggregation
- CoMP
- Beam control (including beam muting as beam forming such as beam nulling)
For background information on the PRB blanking optimization, see clause 4.6.4 PRB blanking optimization. Carrier aggregation reduces interference by selecting the carriers with less interference to aggregate. CoMP reduces interference by selecting cells that experience less interference. Beam muting reduces interference in the spatial domain by muting one or more SSB beams and / or traffic beams in the MIMO Grid of Beams (GoB) mode. Beam forming reduces interference in the spatial domain by forming nulls to cancel interference in MIMO GoB and non-GoB modes. By analyzing the interference detection results, with the support of AI/ML, the Near-RT RIC sends control and / or policies regarding interference optimization mechanisms to an O-DU to influence the MAC scheduler behaviors for interference optimization in a network with multiple cells. The Near-RT RIC can achieve overall network performance improvements including interference optimization for both uplink and downlink with system-level optimization instead of local-level optimization by an O-DU alone. Furthermore, the AI/ML models' functionality in the Near-RT RIC can include prediction of future traffic, user mobility, resource usage, and QoS/QoE on a per UE basis as well as prediction of network performance and effectiveness of interference reduction for different interference optimization mechanisms. Based on the predicted results, interference optimization control and / or policy can be given by the Near-RT RIC to E2 nodes in a near-real-time manner. The interference optimization objective includes performance targets in QoS and interference reduction on a specific UE, UE group, RAN slice, PRBs or mMIMO beams such that the impact of interference on the QoS metric of a specific UE, UE group, RAN slice or cell can be reduced by a certain percentage. One example of the performance targets in QoS is the average DL throughput and UL throughput of the UEs near the cell edge to achieve. One example of performance targets in interference reduction is a 90% interference reduction target for a group of UEs in a cell which means that the average channel quality (e.g., CQI) for the specified group of UEs under interference can be improved by applying interference optimization mechanisms to a 90% level compared to those when there is no interference.

### 4.7.2 Entities/resources involved in the use case
1) Near-RT RIC: a) On-board and run interference detection and optimization xApps. b) Near-real-time monitoring of interference detection and optimization related measurements from E2 nodes through E2 interface. c) Send controls and / or policies to E2 nodes through E2 interface to achieve the objectives of interference detection and optimization. 2) E2 node: a) Support interference detection and optimization related measurements and reports through E2 interface. b) Support interference detection and optimization actions, configurations and / or policy enforcements from E2 interface.

### 4.7.3 Solution
The context of interference detection and optimization is captured in table 4.7.3-1. <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Drive interference detection and optimization in accordance with information Goal from the E2 nodes.
- Near-RT RIC: Generates RIC CONTROL and / or POLICY.
Actors and Roles - E2 node: RIC CONTROL and POLICY execution and RIC REPORT creation.
- All relevant functions and components are instantiated.
Assumptions
- E2 interface connectivity is established.
- Network is operational with default configuration.
Pre-conditions
- All relevant subscriptions established on E2 interface.
Interference detection and optimization for performance targets, including QoS Begins when and interference reduction, is activated or an operator defined trigger is detected. Near RT RIC generates or updates interference detection and optimization Step 1 (M) control or policy. Near-RT RIC sends interference detection control or policy including cell Step 2, 3 (M) resources to allocate, cells information transmission strategy, and cell resources to be monitored to E2 nodes. Step 4 (M) Near-RT RIC collects data from E2 nodes through E2 interface. Near-RT RIC subscribes to UE context information and measurement metrics Step 5 (M) via E2 interface. E2 nodes report the UE context information and E2 measurements via RIC Step 6 (M) REPORT or INDICATION. Near-RT RIC evaluates the collected data from E2 nodes and finds potential Step 7 (M) performance targets improvements including QoS and interference reduction. Step 8, 9 (M) Near-RT RIC sends interference optimization control or policy to E2 nodes. Interference detection and optimization are deactivated, or an operator defined Step 10 (M) trigger is detected. Step 11 (M) Delete all related RIC subscriptions. Ends when Interference detection and optimization stops. Exceptions None. Post Conditions Interference detection and optimization over a period of time is achieved. REQ-Near-RT-RIC-ES-FUN7, REQ-Near-RT-RIC-IDIO-FUN1 REQ-E2-QoS-FUN1, REQ-E2-QoS-FUN2, REQ-E2-QoS-FUN3, REQ-E2- Traceability QoS-FUN4, REQ-E2-QoS-FUN5, REQ-E2-QoS-FUN6, REQ-E2-QoS-FUN7, REQ-E2-QoS-FUN8, REQ-E2-ES-FUN8, REQ-E2-ES-FUN9, REQ-E2-IDIO- FUN1, REQ-E2-IDIO-FUN2, REQ-E2-IDIO-FUN3 Box “O-RAN” #lightpink control or policy Alt Near-RT RIC uses CONTROL Service for interference detection Else Near-RT RIC uses POLICY Service for interference detection end interference reduction Alt Near-RT RIC uses CONTROL Service for interference optimization Else Near-RT RIC uses POLICY Service for interference optimization end The flow diagram of the performance targets optimization by interference detection and optimization is given in figure 4.7.3-1.

### 4.7.4 Required data
This clause elaborates the Near-RT RIC and the E2 node capabilities necessary for implementation of the interference detection and optimization use case. The requirements are specified in clause 5.

#### 4.7.4.1 Control over E2
1) Radio resource allocation. Near-RT RIC provides direct control for interference detection and optimization configurations to be applied at the E2 node. Configurations at the cell level include:
- Configurations for cells resources allocation, cells information transmission strategy, and cell resources to be
monitored to enable collection of interference detection related measurements.
- Configurations of PRBs to be blanked in PRB blanking to support interference optimization (see clause 4.6.4 PRB
blanking optimization).
- Configurations of beam index (for both SSB beams and traffic beams) to be muted in beam muting to support
interference optimization.
- Configurations of carriers to be aggregated in carrier aggregation to support interference optimization.
- Configurations of cells to be jointly used in CoMP to support interference optimization.
Both RIC POLICY and RIC CONTROL can be used. 2) Interference detection and optimization policy. Near-RT RIC provides policies to the E2 node including interference detection policies, interference optimization policies, and performance targets the interference optimization policies should achieve. The policies may include:
- Preferred cells resources allocation, cells information transmission strategy, and cell resources to be monitored to enable
collection to enable collection of interference detection related measurements.
- Interference reduction target.
- Cell-level and UE performance targets, e.g. throughput cap, throughput drop tolerance, latency target.
- Preferred number of active or blanked PRBs to support PRB blanking optimization as part of interference optimization.
- Preferred number of active or inactive carriers to support carrier aggregation optimization as part of interference
optimization.
- Preferred number of active or inactive cells to support CoMP optimization as part of interference optimization.
- Preferred number of active or muted beams to support beam muting optimization as part of interference optimization.
- Preferred number of nulls to support beam forming optimization as part of interference optimization.
Either RIC POLICY or RIC CONTROL can be used.

#### 4.7.4.2 UE context information from E2 nodes
The following items are examples of UE context information identified as required:
- UE ID (as defined in [32])
- Slice level: S-NSSAI
- DRB level: e.g., established DRB ID, mapping with QoS flows, etc.
- QoS related: 5QI
- UE capabilities: CA and DC capabilities
- UE-level RAN state information
- UE-level PM data

#### 4.7.4.3 Measurements from E2 nodes
The E2 measurements are necessary to support interference detection and optimization in the Near-RT RIC. For interference detection, the Near-RT RIC collects interference related measurements. The interference related measurements for assessing network interference conditions are evaluated against performance targets for the Near-RT RIC to produce interference optimization control and / or policy. The examples of measurements information identified as required are listed in table 4.7.4.3-1. Measurement Measurement Examples Type
- DL/UL Total PRB Usage, Distribution of DL/UL Total PRB Usage, DL/UL GBR PRB
Usage, DL/UL non-GBR PRB Usage, RRC Connection Number, Available RRC Connection Capacity Value, Mean and Maximum Number of Active UEs per DRB in the DL/UL, DL/UL Scheduling PDCCH CCE Usage, DL/UL Composite Available Capacity, DL/UL Cell PDCP SDU Data Volume (including secondary RAT usage for EN-DC/MR- DC), Handover success ratio
- DL/UL SSB Area Total PRB Usage, DL/UL SSB Area GBR PRB Usage, DL/UL SSB
Area non-GBR PRB Usage, SSB Area Capacity Value
- DL/UL PRB usage per QCI, DL/UL PRB usage per 5QI, DL/UL PRB usage per slice,
Cell/SSB area Slice Available Capacity Value related - UL interference level per cell measurements - UL interference level per PRB per cell
- UL interference level per PRB per antenna branch per cell
- Wideband CQI distribution (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.11.1)
- SS-RSRP distribution per SSB for serving cell (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6],
clause 5.1.1.22.1)
- SS-RSRP distribution per SSB for neighbor cell (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6],
clause 5.1.1.22.1) As specified in 3GPP TS 38.314 [16], 3GPP TS 38.463 [20], 3GPP TS 38.473 [21], 3GPP TS 38.423 [19]
- Average DL/UL throughput
- DL/UL PRB usage
E2 node user plane - DL/UL Scheduled IP throughput measurements per- - Buffer Status Information (e.g., UL BSR) UE/UE group As specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], 3GPP TS 38.314 [16], 3GPP TS 38.423 [19], 3GPP TS 38.473 [21], 3GPP TS 38.463 [20], 3GPP TS 38.321 [17]
- CSI (including CQI) measurements
- SINR measurements
- MCS measurements
- RSRP, RSRQ, SS-RSRP, SS-SINR, SRS-RSRP, CSI-RSRP, CSI-SINR, CSI-RSRQ
UE L1/L2/L3 measurements measurements
- Location and Velocity measurements
- Timing advance measurements
As specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18], 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], 3GPP TS 38.215 [27] Mobility and RA related KPIs/measurements from the E2 nodes hosting the target NES cell(s) and/or the neighbour cell(s) to the target NES cell(s) Mobility and RA
- Handover failure related, e.g., number of handover failures related to MRO
related
- RACH failure related, e.g., distribution of RACH access delay
KPIs/measurements
- Radio link failure reports
of UE/UE group
- UE context release related, e.g., number of UE context release requests
As specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18], 3GPP 28.552 [6]

#### 4.7.4.4 E2 node configuration
Cell-level configuration parameters are needed at the Near-RT RIC to, for instance, configure UE measurements required for monitoring cell level performance to support interference detection and optimization.

# 5 Requirements

## 5.1 Functional requirements

### 5.1.1 Near-RT RIC generic functional requirements
The Near-RT RIC functional requirements are captured in table 5.1.1-1. REQ Description Note Near-RT RIC shall be able to use traffic steering-related A1 policies REQ-Near-RT-RIC-TS-FUN1 to determine and execute appropriate E2 actions. Near-RT RIC shall be able to use traffic steering-related A1 REQ-Near-RT-RIC-TS-FUN2 enrichment information, e.g., the radio finger print information, to determine and execute appropriate E2 actions. Near-RT RIC shall support training of massive MIMO-related REQ-Near-RT-RIC-MM-FUN1 models in xApps. Near-RT RIC shall support deployment of massive MIMO-related REQ-Near-RT-RIC-MM-FUN2 trained models in xApps . Near-RT RIC shall be able to use massive MIMO-related A1 REQ-Near-RT-RIC-MM-FUN3 enrichment information, e.g., location and mobility information, to determine and execute appropriate E2 actions. Near-RT RIC shall be able to collect the observation and measurement data pertaining to CSI-Feedback and traffic load REQ-Near-RT-RIC-MM-FUN4 information of UEs, which are subsequently processed, aggregated and reported over O1 interface to the SMO/Non-RT RIC framework. REQ-Near-RT-RIC-QOE- Near-RT RIC shall be able to generate QoE related RAN analytics FUN1 information and expose it to RAI service consumer. Near-RT RIC shall be able to use energy saving-related A1 policies REQ-Near-RT-RIC-ES-FUN1 and enrichment information, e.g., the radio finger print information, to determine and execute appropriate E2 actions. Near-RT RIC shall be able to trigger necessary energy saving REQ-Near-RT-RIC-ES-FUN2 related actions based on the configuration from O1 interface. Near-RT RIC shall be able to handle mobility of users to account REQ-Near-RT-RIC-ES-FUN3 for potential coverage loss directly or indirectly via guidance to the E2 node. Near-RT RIC shall be able to handle radio access and mobility REQ-Near-RT-RIC-ES-FUN4 controls as described in clause 4.6.2.4.1 to create more ASM sleep opportunities on the targeted cells. Near-RT RIC shall support handling radio access to restrict access REQ-Near-RT-RIC-ES-FUN5 of UEs for a specific cell. Near-RT RIC shall support handling mobility control to reduce REQ-Near-RT-RIC-ES-FUN6 traffic load. Near-RT RIC shall support PRB blanking optimization to optimize REQ-Near-RT-RIC-ES-FUN7 the performance in ES. REQ-Near-RT-RIC-IDIO- Near-RT RIC shall support interference detection and optimization FUN1 to optimize the network performance.

### 5.1.2 E2 interface functional requirements
The E2 interface functional requirements are captured in table 5.1.2-1. REQ Description Note E2 shall support retrieval over E2 (read or receive via REPORT) of the following:
- Cell level configuration parameters, such as PCI, neighbor
REQ-E2-TS-FUN1 relations and related offsets for measurement, cell reselection and handover, etc. Supported REPORT triggers shall include:
- Modification of the configuration parameters
E2 shall support the configuration (including range and granularity) and retrieval of cell/SSB area or slice related measurements in the nomenclature as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], 3GPP TS 36.314 [9], 3GPP TS 36.423 [12], 3GPP TS 38.314 [16], 3GPP TS 38.423 [19], 3GPP TS 38.463 [20] and 3GPP TS 38.473 [21]. These include:
- DL/UL Total PRB Usage, Distribution of DL/UL Total PRB
Usage, DL/UL GBR PRB Usage, DL/UL total available PRB, DL/UL non-GBR PRB Usage, RRC Connection Number, Available RRC Connection Capacity Value, Mean and Maximum Number of Active UEs in the DL/UL per DRB, DL/UL Scheduling PDCCH CCE Usage, DL/UL Composite Available Capacity, DL/UL Cell PDCP SDU Data Volume REQ-E2-TS-FUN2 (including secondary RAT usage for EN-DC/MR-DC), Handover success ratio
- DL/UL SSB Area Total PRB Usage, DL/UL SSB Area GBR
PRB Usage, DL/UL SSB Area non-GBR PRB Usage, SSB Area Capacity Value
- DL/UL PRB usage per QCI, DL/UL PRB usage per 5QI,
DL/UL PRB usage per slice, Slice Available Capacity Value See NOTE 1. Supported REPORT triggers shall include:
- Availability of new information e.g., new load measurement
generated
- Threshold crossing
E2 shall support the configuration and retrieval of E2-node user plane measurements per-UE / UE group, in the nomenclature as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], 3GPP TS 36.314 [9], 3GPP TS 36.321 [10], 3GPP TS 38.314 [16], 3GPP TS 38.321 [17], 3GPP TS 38.423 [19], 3GPP TS 38.463 [20] and 3GPP TS 38.473 [21], e.g.:
- Average DL/UL throughput
REQ-E2-TS-FUN3
- DL/UL PRB usage
- Buffer Status Information (e.g., UL BSR)
Supported REPORT triggers shall include:
- Availability of new information e.g., new load measurement
generated
- Threshold crossing
E2 shall support the configuration and retrieval of UE L1/L2/L3 measurements reported by individual UE, e.g.:
- RSRP and RSRQ measurements
- SINR measurements
REQ-E2-TS-FUN4 - CQI/MCS measurements Supported REPORT triggers shall include:
- Availability of new information e.g., reception of RRC
measurement reports. E2 shall support the control of EN-DC/MR-DC function in E2 nodes, including the configuration of the relevant parameters for REQ-E2-TS-FUN5 EN-DC/MR-DC procedures, e.g.
- X2 SgNB addition
- X2 SgNB modification
REQ Description Note
- X2 SgNB release
- X2 SgNB change
- PSCell change
- Inter-master node handover
and UE level cell preference guidance for EN-DC/MR-DC, e.g.:
- Ordered list of target cells for SgNB addition and change.
INSERT/CONTROL and POLICY shall be supported in order to trigger the operation by a RAN event, as well as REPORT/CONTROL for Near-RT RIC to trigger the operation asynchronously where appropriate E2 shall support the control of handover function in E2 nodes, including the configuration of the relevant parameters for handover procedures, e.g.:
- Intra-frequency/inter-frequency/inter-RAT handover
- Intra/inter-eNB/gNB handover
REQ-E2-TS-FUN6 and UE level cell preference guidance for handover, e.g.:
- Ordered list of target cells for handover
INSERT/CONTROL and POLICY shall be supported in order to trigger the operation by a RAN event, as well as REPORT/CONTROL for Near-RT RIC to trigger the operation asynchronously where appropriate E2 shall support the control of carrier aggregation function in E2 nodes, including the configuration of the relevant parameters for CA procedures (e.g., addition, modification and release of a component carrier) and UE level cell preference guidance for CA (e.g., ordered list of target cells for SCell addition/modification) REQ-E2-TS-FUN7 INSERT/CONTROL and POLICY shall be supported in order to trigger the operation by a RAN event, as well as REPORT/ CONTROL for Near-RT RIC to trigger the operation asynchronously E2 shall support the control of idle mode mobility function in E2 nodes, including the configuration of the relevant parameters for idle mode procedures (e.g., intra-frequency/inter-frequency/inter- RAT cell reselection priority) REQ-E2-TS-FUN8 INSERT/CONTROL and POLICY shall be supported in order to trigger the operation by a RAN event, as well as REPORT/CONTROL for RIC to trigger the operation asynchronously E2 shall support the fetching of UE information including e.g.:
- UE ID as specified in [32]
- S-NSSAI
REQ-E2-TS-FUN9
- QCI/5QI,
- UE capabilities (DC/CA)
- Active DRBs/QoS flows
E2 shall support the configuration and retrieval of measurements related to UE location and velocity that are reported by an individual UE, e.g.:
- LocationInfo, CommonLocationInfo
REQ-E2-TS-FUN10 Supported REPORT triggers shall include:
- Availability of new information e.g., reception of RRC
measurement reports. REQ Description Note E2 interface shall support retrieval of the UE context related Applicable information from E2 nodes: RIC services:
- UE ID as specified in [32]
- Slicing info, such as S-NSSAI REPORT
- QoS info, such as E-RAB level QoS parameters (4G, NSA)
or QoS flow level QoS parameters (NG-RAN) REQ-E2-QoS-FUN1 • Radio bearers related info, such as established DRB ID, flow-to-DRB mapping
- RLC/MAC/PHY related info, such as LCID, scheduling
related parameters
- UE capability info, such as CA (carrier aggregation) and DC
(dual connectivity) capabilities E2 interface shall support retrieval of the following measurements Applicable info from E2 nodes: RIC services:
- UE-level
- Radio channel info available at DU: CQI (as specified REPORT
in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6])
- Radio channel info available at CU-CP for serving
cell: RSRP, RSRQ, SINR (as specified in 3GPP TS 36.331 [11] and 3GPP TS 38.331 [18]), including from periodical and/or event triggered measurement report (A1-A6, B1-B2).
- Radio channel info available at CU-CP for
neighboring cells: RSRP, RSRQ, SINR (as specified in 3GPP TS 36.331 [11] and 3GPP TS 38.331 [18]), including from periodical and/or event triggered measurement report (A1-A6, B1-B2).
- Layer-2: DL/UL UE PRB used for data traffic, Average
DL UE throughput in gNB, Distribution of DL UE throughput in gNB, Percentage of unrestricted DL UE data volume in gNB, Packet Delay and RAN part packet delay components, Packet Delay, Data Volume (as specified in 3GPP TS 36.314 [9]), DL PDCP occupied buffer size, DL unused PDCP buffer size, Packet Loss Rate per DRB (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.314 [16]) and REQ-E2-QoS-FUN2 per logical channel
- Cell-level
- Layer-2: CQI, MCS Distribution in PDSCH, DL/UL Total
PRB usage, Distribution of DL/UL Total PRB usage, DL/UL PRB used for data traffic, DL/UL Total available PRB, Total number of DL/UL TBs, Total error number of DL/UL TBs, Average DL UE throughput in gNB, Distribution of DL UE throughput in gNB, Percentage of unrestricted DL UE data volume in gNB, Packet Delay, Mean number of Active UEs in the DL/UL per cell, Max number of Active UEs in the DL/UL per cell (as specified so far in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6]), DL/UL PRB usage for traffic, DL/UL Total PRB usage, Distribution of DL/UL Total PRB usage, DL/UL PRB full utilization, Total number of DL/UL TBs, Total error number of DL/UL TBs, Average number of Active UEs (as specified so far in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7]), RAN part packet delay components (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.314 [16]), Packet Delay (as specified in 3GPP TS 36.314 [9]), DL/UL Cell PDCP SDU Data Volume, Packet Loss Rate, DL Packet Drop Rate (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6] and 3GPP TS 32.425 [7]) REQ Description Note E2 interface shall support the control of radio bearer related Applicable functions in E2 nodes, including configuration/modification of the RIC services: following:
- DRB QoS (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.473 [21] and 3GPP CONTROL
TS 23.501 [3]) POLICY
- QoS flow mapping (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.473 [21])
- Logical channel configuration (as specified in 3GPP TS
38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]) REQ-E2-QoS-FUN3
- Radio admission control (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331
[18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11])
- Change of bearer termination point (MN or SN) and/or
bearer types (MCG/SCG/split) (as specified in 3GPP TS 37.340 [13]); Control of split ratio for a split bearer; Control of packet duplication and number of legs (as specified in 3GPP TS 36.300 [8] and 3GPP TS 38.300 [14]) E2 interface shall support the control of resource allocation Applicable function in E2 nodes, including configuration/modification of the RIC services: following:
- DRX parameters (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.473 [21], CONTROL
3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]) such as POLICY long DRX cycle, short DRX cycle, short DRX timer.
- SR (scheduling request) periodicity (as specified in 3GPP
TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]) such as sr- REQ-E2-QoS-FUN4 ProhibitTimer, sr-TransMax.
- SPS (semi-persistent scheduling) parameters (as specified
in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]), such as SPS-Config (DL) and ConfiguredGrantConfig (UL)
- Slice level PRB quota (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.541 [4])
- CQI table (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.214 [15]) with target
block error rate E2 interface shall support the control of radio access related Applicable functions in E2 nodes, including configuration/modification of the RIC services: following: REQ-E2-QoS-FUN5 • Access control (cell-level, UE-level, slice-level), such as CONTROL RACH backoff, RRC connection reject, RRC connection POLICY release, access barring, etc. E2 interface shall support the control of mobility management Applicable function in E2 nodes, including configuration/modification of the RIC services: following:
- Handover CONTROL
- Handover restriction list POLICY
- Carrier aggregation (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.473 [21],
REQ-E2-QoS-FUN6 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11])
- MR-DC, including (NG)EN-DC, NE-DC, NR-DC (as
specified in 3GPP TS 38.473 [21], 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]) E2 interface shall support the control of uplink power control Applicable function in E2 nodes, including configuration/modification of the RIC services: following: REQ-E2-QoS-FUN7
- Target value of uplink received quality such as received CONTROL
SINR or received power at E2 node POLICY REQ Description Note E2 interface shall support retrieval of configuration of uplink Applicable transmit power from E2 node: RIC services:
- Cell specific transmit power (TS38.331 [19]), PUSCH-
ConfigCommon. REPORT REQ-E2-QoS-FUN8
- UE specific transmit power (TS 38.331 [19]), PUSCH- QUERY
PowerControl. Target value of uplink received quality such as received SINR or received power at E2 node E2 shall support retrieval over E2 (read or receive via REPORT) of the following:
- Cell level and/or slice level configuration parameters
REQ-E2-SLA-FUN1 Supported REPORT triggers shall include:
- Modification of cell level and/or slice configuration
parameters E2 shall support the configuration (including range and Applicable granularity) and retrieval of cell or slice related measurements in RIC services: the nomenclature as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], 3GPP TS 36.314 [9], 3GPP TS 36.423 [12], 3GPP TS REPORT 38.314 [16], 3GPP TS 38.423 [19], 3GPP TS 38.463 [20] and 3GPP TS 38.473 [21]. These include:
- DL/UL Total PRB Usage, Distribution of DL/UL Total PRB
Usage, DL/UL total available PRB, RRC Connection Number, REQ-E2-SLA-FUN2 Available RRC Connection Capacity Value, Mean and Maximum Number of Active UEs in the DL/UL per DRB
- DL/UL PRB usage per slice, Slice Available Capacity Value
Supported REPORT triggers shall include:
- Availability of new information e.g., new load measurement
generated
- Threshold crossing
E2 shall support the fetching of UE information including e.g.: Applicable
- UE ID RIC services:
REQ-E2-SLA-FUN3
- PLMN, S-NSSAI(s)
- DRB related information REPORT
E2 interface shall support the configuration and retrieval of Applicable individual UE measurements, including the following: RIC services: REQ-E2-SLA-FUN4
- RSRP, RSRQ
- CQI REPORT
E2 interface shall support the control of slice resource allocation Applicable in E2 nodes, including configuration/modification of the following: RIC services:
- Per-slice dedicated PRB allocation percentages for downlink
and uplink REPORT
- Per-slice maximum PRB allocation percentages for downlink CONTROL
REQ-E2-SLA-FUN5 and uplink
- Per-UE-per-slice maximum PRB allocation percentages for
downlink and uplink
- Per-slice indication of resource sharing allowance to achieve
utilization of unused slice resources by other network slices
- Per-slice priority values to achieve scheduling prioritization
among network slices with different priorities E2 interface shall support the slice-level control of radio resource Applicable management related functions in E2 nodes, including the RIC services: REQ-E2-SLA-FUN6 following:
- Slice based radio admission control CONTROL
- Slice based radio bearer control POLICY
E2 shall support retrieval over E2 of the following: Applicable
- Beam level configuration parameters, such as beam pattern RIC services:
information (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.541 [5], clause REQ-E2-MM-FUN1 4.3.40) REPORT,
- O-RU antenna information (as specified in O- QUERY
RAN.WG4.MP.0-R003-v13 [35], clause D.3.8) REQ Description Note
- O-DU supported compression methods (as specified in O-
RAN.WG4.CUS.0-R003-v13 [34], clause 7.7.1.2)
- Served cell information (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.473 [21],
clause 9.3.1.10)
- MIB (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18], clause 6.2.2)
- SSB information of the serving cell (as specified in 3GPP TS
38.331 [18], clause 6.2.2) Supported REPORT triggers shall include: Modification of the configuration parameters E2 shall support retrieval from E2 node of DL L1 measurements Applicable reported by individual UE, e.g.: RIC services:
- RSRP-SS measurements (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.133
[26] and 3GPP TS 38.215 [27]) REPORT
- SINR-SS measurements (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.133
[26] and 3GPP TS 38.215 [27])
- PMI, RI, CQI (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.212 [43], clause
6.3)
- CSI-RSRP, CSI-RSRQ, CSI-SINR (as specified in 3GPP TS
REQ-E2-MM-FUN2 38.912 [46], clause 8.1.2.6.3, 3GPP TS 38.331 [18], clause 5.5.5.2, 3GPP TS 38.215 [27], clause 5.1, 3GPP TS 38.214 [15], clause 5.2.2)
- QCL type between SSB and CSI-RS (as specified in 3GPP
TS 38.214 [15], clause 5.1.5)
- QCL type between CSI-RS and DMRS (as specified in
3GPP TS 38.214 [15], clause 5.1.5) Supported REPORT triggers shall include: Availability of new information E2 shall support retrieval from E2 node of UL L1 measurements Applicable reported for individual UE, e.g.: RIC services:
- SRS RSRP measurements (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.133
REQ-E2-MM-FUN3 [26] and 3GPP TS 38.215 [27]) REPORT Supported REPORT triggers shall include: Availability of new information E2 shall support retrieval from E2 node of L3 mobility Applicable measurements reported per beam/beam group, e.g.: RIC services:
- Number of too early HOs (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552
[6]) REPORT
- Number of too late HOs (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6])
- Number of HOs to wrong cell (as specified in 3GPP TS
28.552 [6])
- Number of requested legacy HO executions (HO attempts)
(as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6])
- Number of successful legacy HO executions (as specified in
REQ-E2-MM-FUN4 3GPP TS 28.552 [6])
- Number of failed legacy HO executions (as specified in 3GPP
TS 28.552 [6])
- Per UE event mobility failure indication with root cause (too
early HO, too late HO, HO to wrong cell) and number of requested or number of successful HO executions at the time of failure Supported REPORT triggers shall include
- For mobility KPIs, periodic reporting
For mobility failure indication, message event trigger E2 shall support retrieval of UE context information from E2 node Applicable for individual UE, e.g.: RIC services: REQ-E2-MM-FUN5 - UE ID
- UE capabilities (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18], clause REPORT, QUERY
6.2.2) REQ Description Note
- SRS Configuration (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18],
clause 6.2.2)
- RRC State
- CSI Measurement configuration (as specified in 3GPP TS
38.331 [18], clause 6.3.2)
- Measurement Gap configuration (as specified in 3GPP TS
38.331 [18], clause 6.3.2)
- BWP DL/UL configurations (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331
[18], clause 6.3.2)
- DRB related info, such as established DRB ID, flow-to-DRB
mapping, RLC Mode, LCID (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.473 [21], clause 9.2.2.1)
- PDSCH of serving cell configuration (as specified in 3GPP
TS 38.331 [18], clause 6.3.2)
- DRX Configuration (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18],
clause 6.3.2) Supported REPORT triggers shall include: Configuration or reconfiguration of the UE context information E2 interface shall support the control of beamforming in E2 nodes, Applicable including the following: RIC services:
- Configuration of non-Grid of beams beamforming mode,
REQ-E2-MM-FUN6 separately for single user- and multi-user MIMO, on a per-UE CONTROL basis POLICY E2 interface shall support the control of L3 mobility configuration Applicable in E2 nodes, including the following: RIC services: REQ-E2-MM-FUN7 Cell Individual Offset (CIO), Time To Trigger (TTT), UE Timer 310 (T310) on a per beam/beam group, per UE/UE group basis (as POLICY specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18]) E2 interface shall support the configuration of beam grouping Applicable information in E2 nodes, including the following: RIC services: REQ-E2-MM-FUN8 List of beam group IDs with associated beam IDs POLICY E2 shall support request and reporting of the number of supported Applicable non-GoB BF modes in O-DU RIC services: REQ-E2-MM-FUN9 QUERY E2 shall support retrieval from E2 node of average DL/UL per-UE Applicable throughput in gNB with associated non-GoB BF mode and MIMO RIC services: REQ-E2-MM-FUN10 mode (SU/MU) REPORT E2 shall support retrieval from E2 node of DL L1 and L2 Applicable information reported for individual UE, e.g.: RIC services:
- PDCP buffer status (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.323 [40],
clause 5.6) REPORT
- RLC buffer status (as specified in 3GPP TS 25.321 [41],
clause 8.2.2) REQ-E2-MM-FUN11 - HARQ ACK/NACK/DTX counts
- SRS samples
- HARQ-specific Transport Block Size volume (as specified in
O-RAN WG3 E2SM-KPM [36], O-RAN WG3 E2SM-RC [37]) Supported REPORT triggers shall include: Periodic with a configured period E2 interface shall support the configuration of individual UE Applicable operation, including the following: RIC services:
- CSI resources (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18], clause
REQ-E2-MM-FUN12 6.3.2) CONTROL
- CSI reports (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18], clause
6.3.2) REQ Description Note
- SRS resources (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18], clause
6.3.2)
- PDSCH (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18], clause 6.3.2)
E2 shall support retrieval over E2 of the following: Applicable
- Timestamped slot numbers (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.473 RIC services:
[21], clause 9.3.1.171)
- Received time and processing time margin of the scheduling REPORT
REQ-E2-MM-FUN13 control message Supported REPORT triggers shall include: Periodic with a configured period Applicable E2 interface shall support the configuration of the active bearers RIC services: REQ-E2-MM-FUN14 for which the Near-RT RIC will be providing the scheduling parameters CONTROL Applicable E2 interface shall support the control of scheduling parameters RIC services: REQ-E2-MM-FUN15 that enable MU-MIMO transmissions and the relevant MIMO parameters, of latency tolerant traffic per slot per UE. CONTROL E2 interface shall support the control of parameter configurations Applicable per-cell basis and per-UE basis for a sequence of slots in E2 RIC services: nodes, e.g.,
- Slot-specific DMRS configurations for a sequence of slots POLICY
REQ-E2-MM-FUN16
- Per-UE slot-specific GoB-based beam configuration (i.e., P2
beamforming-weights/beam-index, PMI, RI, LI, etc.) for a sequence of slots E2 shall support UE context information including e.g.:
- UE ID
REQ-E2-QoE-FUN1
- List of S-NSSAI
List of QoS related ID, e.g., 5QI, QFI E2 interface shall support retrieval of UE-level or cell-level measurement, including e.g.:
- Cell-level:
- Layer-2: MCS Distribution in PDSCH (as specified in
3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.12.1), DL/UL Total PRB usage (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.2.1 and 5.1.1.2.2 and in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clauses 4.5.3 and 4.5.4), Distribution of DL/UL Total PRB usage (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.2.3 and 5.1.1.2.4 and in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clauses 4.5.10 and 4.5.11), DL/UL PRB used for data traffic (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.2.5 and 5.1.1.2.7), DL/UL PRB usage for traffic (as specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clauses 4.5.1 and 4.5.2), DL/UL Total available PRB (as specified in 3GPP REQ-E2-QoE-FUN2 TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.2.6 and 5.1.1.2.8), DL/UL PRB full utilization (as specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clauses 4.5.9.1 and 4.5.9.2), Total number of DL/UL TBs (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.7.3 and 5.1.1.7.8 and in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clauses 4.5.7.1 and 4.5.7.3), Total error number of DL/UL TBs (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.7.4 and 5.1.1.7.9 and in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clauses 4.5.7.2 and 4.5.7.4), Average DL UE throughput in gNB (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.3.1), Distribution of DL UE throughput in gNB (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.1.3.2), Packet Delay (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.3.3), RAN part packet delay components (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.314 [16], clause 4.2.1.2), Packet Delay (as specified in 3GPP TS 36.314 [9], clause 4.1.4), DL/UL Cell PDCP SDU Data REQ Description Note Volume (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.2.1 for non-split gNB, clause 5.1.3.6.2 for split gNB; per PLMN ID and per E-RAB QoS profile (QCI, ARP and GBR), as specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clause 4.4.7), Mean number of Active UEs in the DL/UL per cell (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.23.1 and 5.1.1.23.3), Max number of Active UEs in the DL/UL per cell (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clauses 5.1.1.23.2 and 5.1.1.23.4), Average number of Active UEs (as specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clause 4.4.2), Packet Loss Rate (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.3.1), Packet Loss Rate (as specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clause 4.4.4), DL Packet Drop Rate (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.3.2), DL Packet Drop Rate (as specified in 3GPP TS 32.425 [7], clause 4.4.3.2)
- UE-level
- Radio channel info: SINR (as specified in 3GPP TS
38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]), RSRP (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]), RSRQ (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11])
- Layer-2: CQI, MCS, DL/UL UE throughput, DL/UL UE
PRB usage, RLC buffer size, RLC occupied buffer, RLC unused buffer, UL/DL MAC rate, Packet Delay, Data volume (per UE, as specified in 3GPP TS 36.314 [9], clause 4.1.8 and 3GPP TS 38.314 [16]), Packet Loss Rate per DRB (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.314 [16], clause 4.2.1.5) and per UE, DL Packet Drop Rate, Total number of RLC SDUs/PDUs
- Slice-level
- Layer-2: DL/UL UE PRB usage, RLC buffer size, RLC
occupied buffer, RLC unused buffer, UL/DL MAC rate, Packet Delay, Data volume (per QCI/5QI, as specified in 3GPP TS 36.314 [9], clause 4.1.8 and 3GPP TS 38.314 [16]), Packet Loss Rate per DRB (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.314 [16], clause 4.2.1.5) and per UE, DL Packet Drop Rate (as specified in 3GPP TS 28.552 [6], clause 5.1.3.2), Total number of RLC SDUs/PDUs E2 interface shall support forwarding the guidance of cell and carrier switching off/on from the Near-RT RIC to the E2 node. REQ-E2-ES-FUN1 REPORT/CONTROL shall be supported for Near-RT RIC to trigger the operation asynchronously where appropriate E2 interface shall support the configuration and retrieval of REQ-E2-ES-FUN2 energy saving related measurement and cell state information from the E2 Node. E2 interface shall support forwarding the guidance of sleep mode REQ-E2-ES-FUN3 configurations as described in 4.6.2.4.1 from the Near-RT RIC to the E2 node. E2 interface shall support the control of NES related resource allocation function in E2 nodes including configuration/modification of the following:
- SR periodicity reconfiguration (as specified in 3GPP TS
38.331 [18] and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]): Both sr- REQ-E2-ES-FUN4 ProhibitTimer and sr-TransMax can be treated.
- SPS configuration (as specified in 3GPP TS 38.331 [18]
and 3GPP TS 36.331 [11]): Both SPS-Config (DL) and ConfiguredGrantConfig (UL) can be treated.
- CSI-RS periodicity configuration.
- Common channel periodicity configurations.
REQ Description Note E2 interface shall support the configuration of energy saving mode REQ-E2-ES-FUN5 objectives from the Near-RT RIC to the E2 node as described in clause 4.6.2.4.1. E2 interface shall support configuration of RF channel reconfiguration related NES parameters from the Near-RT RIC to the E2 node which includes:
- Indication of the array elements to be switched off during
sleep periods based on the TRX control capability information (see O-RAN.WG4.MP.0-R003-v14 [39], clause 20.3.1) reported by the E2 node (O-DU). REQ-E2-ES-FUN6
- Indication of the sleep mode (see O-RAN.WG4.MP.0-
R003-v14 [39], clause 20.3.1, sleep-mode-type of trx- control-capability-info) to be applied during sleep periods.
- Indication of the sleep periods, e.g. slot numbers, symbol
numbers and the conditions for triggering the sleep period. E2 interface shall support the configuration of RF channel reconfiguration related performance objectives from the Near-RT RIC to the E2 node. The performance objectives can include:
- Energy saving target, e.g. targeted energy saving in
percentage of current average energy consumption or REQ-E2-ES-FUN7 energy saving levels defined by operator (e.g. maximum energy saving, medium energy saving, maximum performance etc.).
- UE or cell level performance targets e.g. throughput cap,
throughput drop tolerance, latency target. E2 interface shall support forwarding the guidance of PRB REQ-E2-ES-FUN8 blanking optimization configurations or policies from the Near-RT RIC to the E2 node. E2 interface shall support the configuration of PRB blanking REQ-E2-ES-FUN9 optimization related performance objectives from the Near-RT RIC to the E2 node. E2 interface shall support forwarding the guidance of interference REQ-E2-IDIO-FUN1 detection and optimization control and / or policy from the Near- RT RIC to the E2 node. E2 interface shall support the configuration of interference REQ-E2-IDIO-FUN2 detection and optimization objectives from the Near-RT RIC to the E2 node. E2 interface shall support the configuration and retrieval of REQ-E2-IDIO-FUN3 interference detection and optimization related measurements and cell state information from the E2 node.
> NOTE 1: Time granularity of the measurements is not defined in the present document.

### 5.1.3 RAI exposure interface functional requirements
The RAI exposure interface functional requirements are captured in table 5.1.3-1. REQ Description Note RAI exposure interface shall support request for QoE related analytics REQ-RAI-QoE-FUN1 from RAI service consumers, with request scopes including:
- List of UE ID
REQ Description Note RAI exposure interface shall support exposure to RAI service consumers the following QoE related information: Predicted RAN performance
- Minimum/maximum/average throughput
- Minimum/maximum/average latency
REQ-RAI-QoE-FUN2
- Average packet loss rate
- QoE prediction
Prediction related information
- Confidence
- Validity period

## 5.2 Non-functional requirements

### 5.2.1 Near-RT RIC non-functional requirements
Void

### 5.2.2 E2 interface non-functional requirements
Void


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG3.Y1AP-R004-v01.01.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG3.Y1AP-R004-v01.01 O-RAN Work Group 3 (Near-Real-time RAN Intelligent Controller and E2 Interface)   Y1 interface: Application Protocol"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms

For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1] and O-RAN.WG1.OAD [9] apply.=

## 3.2 Symbols

For the purposes of the present document, the symbols given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1] and O-RAN.WG1.OAD [9] apply.

## 3.3 Abbreviations

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1], O-RAN.WG1.OAD [9] and the following apply:

- **AS**: Application Server
- **RAI**: RAN Analytics Information
- **SCEF**: Service Capability Exposure Function
- **SCS**: Services Capability Server

# 4 General

## 4.1 Introduction

The present document contains the stage-3 definitions for the services identified in Y1GAP [1]. Certain data types, including but not limited to RAI data types are defined in Y1TD [2].

One or more solution sets in terms of network protocol and data interchange format may be defined for each Y1 service API. The use of a specific solution set for a Y1 service API may be preconfigured or selected via negotiation mechanisms between the Near-RT RIC and the Y1 consumer.

## 4.2 Versioning of Y1 service APIs

### 4.2.1 General rules for API version

Each Y1 service API is versioned independently. An API version shall consist of at least 3 fields, following a MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH pattern according to the Semantic Versioning Specification [i.2] unless specified otherwise.

EXAMPLE:	"1.0.0".

The basic rules as reproduced from [i.2] shall apply for incrementing the versions:

- -	MAJOR version is incremented if backward incompatible change is made.
- -	MINOR version is incremented if functional change is made in a backward compatible way.
- -	PATCH version is incremented if correction is made in a backward compatible way.

### 4.2.2 Versioning for multiple solution sets of a Y1 service API

For a single Y1 service API in the present document, a single version should be kept across all the solution sets defined for that API. That means the different solution sets for a Y1 service API should evolve simultaneously.

### 4.2.3 Versioning for certain data types

The Y1 service APIs are designed in the approach that certain data types are decoupled from the APIs, and such data types may have versions independent from the API version. To that end, the full compatibility for a given solution set of a single Y1 service API between Near-RT RIC and Y1 consumer is jointly governed by the API version and the relevant data type version(s).

# 5 Usage of solution sets

## 5.1 Introduction

For each solution set, the generic designs are defined in this clause.

The solution sets that may be used for a Y1 service API are listed in Table 5.1-1.

| Solution Set | Clause |
| --- | --- |
| Solution 1: HTTP REST with JSON | 5.2 |

## 5.2 Usage of HTTP REST with JSON

### 5.2.1 General

The solution set of HTTP REST with JSON is introduced in clause 7.2 of Y1GAP [1].

The OpenAPI [3] specifications for each Y1 service API with this solution set are documented in Annex A.

### 5.2.2 Content type

The bodies of HTTP request and successful HTTP responses shall be encoded in JSON format. The MIME media type that shall be used within the related Content-Type header field is "application/json", as defined in IETF RFC 8259 [4], unless specified otherwise.

The "Problem Details" JSON object used to indicate additional details of the error in a HTTP response body shall be signaled by the content type "application/problem+json", as defined in IETF RFC 7807 [5].

### 5.2.3 URI structure

#### 5.2.3.1 Resource URI structure

The resource URIs of all Y1 service APIs, unless specified otherwise, shall be structured as:

{apiRoot}/<apiName>/<apiMajorVersion>/<apiSpecificResourceUriPart>

with the following components:

- -	The {apiRoot} indicates the scheme, the host name and optional port, and an optional implementation-specific sequence of path segments (starting with "/").
- -	The <apiName> indicates the API name of the service API in an abbreviated form. It is defined in the clause specifying the corresponding Y1 service API.
- -	The <apiMajorVersion> indicates the major version of the service API (see clause 4.2.1) and is defined in the clause specifying the corresponding Y1 service API.
- -	Each <apiSpecificResourceUriPart> represents a specific resource of the service API. It is defined in the clause specifying the corresponding Y1 service API.
All resource URIs of the service APIs shall comply with the URI syntax as defined in IETF RFC 3986 [6].

### 5.2.4 HTTP headers

#### 5.2.4.1 General

The HTTP headers used in [7] shall be supported by all Y1 service APIs with the solution set "HTTP REST with JSON" in the present document, unless specified otherwise.

### 5.2.5 Error handling

#### 5.2.5.1 General

Unless specified otherwise, the HTTP error handling mechanism described in clause 5.2.6 of [7] shall be supported by all Y1 service APIs with the solution set "HTTP REST with JSON" in the present document, with the following replacements:

- -	the SCEF is replaced by the Near-RT RIC; and
- -	the SCS/AS is replaced by the Y1 consumer.

# 6 API Definitions

## 6.1 Introduction

The Y1 service APIs defined in the present document are listed in Table 6.1-1.

| Y1 service API | Clause | API version | Supported solution sets |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Y1_RAI_Subscription | 6.2 | 1.0.0 | HTTP REST with JSON |
| Y1_RAI_Query | 6.3 | 1.0.0 | HTTP REST with JSON |

## 6.2 Y1_RAI_Subscription API

### 6.2.1 Introduction

The Y1_RAI_ Subscription API is used to access the Y1_RAI_Subscription service.

The service operations and corresponding API definitions are organized in the following clauses for different solution sets.

### 6.2.2 HTTP REST with JSON solution set

#### 6.2.2.1 Service operations

##### 6.2.2.1.1 Introduction

Table 6.2.2.1.1-1 lists the operations supported by the Y1_RAI_Subscription service for the solution set "HTTP REST with JSON".

| Service operation name | Description | Initiated by |
| --- | --- | --- |
| RAI_Subscribe | This service operation is used by a Y1 consumer to subscribe or update subscription for RAI notifications. Periodic or event-triggered notification can be subscribed. | Y1 consumer |
| RAI_Unsubscribe | This service operation is used by a Y1 consumer to unsubscribe from RAI notifications. | Y1 consumer |
| RAI_Notify | This service operation is used by a Near-RT RIC to notify Y1 consumes about subscribed RAI. | Near-RT RIC |

##### 6.2.2.1.2 RAI_Subscribe service operation

The RAI_Subscribe service operation is used by a Y1 consumer to create or update a subscription for RAI notifications from the Near-RT RIC.

Figure 6.2.2.1.2.2-1 shows a scenario where the Y1 consumer sends a request to the Near-RT RIC to create a subscription to RAI notifications. The operation is based on HTTP POST.

@startuml

participant "Y1 consumer" as cons

participant "Near-RT RIC" as prod

cons ->> prod: 1. POST .../subscriptions

prod ->> cons: 2. 201 Created

@enduml

The Y1 consumer shall send an HTTP POST request to the Near-RT RIC with the Resource URL "{apiRoot}/Y1_RAI_Subscription/<apiMajorVersion>/subscriptions" representing the "All Y1 RAI Subscriptions" resource, to create an "Individual Y1 RAI Subscription" resource according to the information in the message.

> NOTE:	The path segment " Y1_RAI_Subscription" does not follow the related naming convention specified in clause 5.2.4.1 of [7]. The path segment is however kept as currently defined in this specification for backward compatibility considerations.
The "RaiSubscription" data structure provided in the request body shall include:

- -	the type of RAI as the "raiType" attribute;
- -	the version of the RAI type as the "raiTypeVersion" attribute;
- -	the target entity/entities of the RAI in the "targetEntities" attribute;
- -	an URI where to receive the RAI notifications as the "notificationTargetAddress" attribute;
- -	the timing or the events when the RAI notifications are triggered in the "notificationCriteria" attribute, which shall include:
The "RaiSubscription" data structure provided in the request body may include:

- -	the expected validity period(s) for the RAI in the "expectedValidityPeriodsRelative" attribute; an expected validity period before the occurrence of a RAI notification refers to statistics for a past time, and an expected validity period after the occurrence of a RAI notification refers to a prediction for a future time.
- -	the filter parameters to filter RAI contents in the RAI report as the "filterParameters" attribute;
Upon the reception of the HTTP POST request, the Near-RT RIC shall create the subscription according to the request, assign a unique subscription ID as "subscriptionId", and store the record.

If the Near-RT RIC successfully creates an "Individual Y1 RAI Subscription" resource, the Near-RT RIC shall respond with "201 Created" status code, with the message body containing a representation of the created subscription. The response shall include a "Location" HTTP header field which contains the URI of the created subscription, i.e., "{apiRoot}/Y1_RAI_Subscription/<apiMajorVersion>/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}".

If an error occurs when processing the HTTP POST request, the Near-RT RIC shall send an HTTP error response as specified in clause 6.2.2.6. In particular,

- -	If the necessary data to perform the analysis are unavailable, the Near-RT RIC shall reject the request with a "500 Internal Server Error" status code and a "ProblemDetails" data structure including the "cause" attribute set to "DATA_UNAVAILABLE".
Figure 6.2.2.1.2.3-1 shows a scenario where the Y1 consumer sends a request to the Near-RT RIC to update a subscription to RAI notifications. The operation is based on HTTP PUT.

@startuml

participant "Y1 consumer" as cons

participant "Near-RT RIC" as prod

cons ->> prod: 1. PUT .../subscriptions/{subscriptionId}

prod ->> cons: 2a. "200 OK" or 2b. "204 No Content"

@enduml

The Y1 consumer shall send an HTTP PUT request to the Near-RT RIC with the Resource URL "{apiRoot}/Y1_RAI_Subscription/<apiMajorVersion>/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}" representing the "Individual Y1 RAI Subscription" resource, to update that resource identified by the "subscriptionId" field.

The "RaiSubscription" data structure provided in the request body shall include the same contents as described in clause 6.2.2.1.2.2.

Upon the reception of the HTTP PUT request, the Near-RT RIC shall update the subscription according to the request, and store the record.

If the Near-RT RIC successfully updates the "Individual Y1 RAI Subscription" resource, the Near-RT RIC shall respond with:

- -	a "200 OK" status code with the message body containing a representation of the updated subscription; or,
- -	a "204 No Content" status code.
If an error occurs when processing the HTTP PUT request, the Near-RT RIC shall send an HTTP error response as specified in clause 6.2.2.6. In particular,

- -	If the necessary data to perform the analysis are unavailable, the Near-RT RIC shall reject the request with a "500 Internal Server Error" status code and a "ProblemDetails" data structure including the "cause" attribute set to "DATA_UNAVAILABLE".

##### 6.2.2.1.3 RAI_Unsubscribe service operation

The RAI_Unsubscribe service operation is used by an Y1 consumer to delete a subscription for RAI notifications.

Figure 6.2.2.1.3.2-1 shows a scenario where the Y1 consumer sends a request to the Near-RT RIC to unsubscribe from RAI notifications. The operation is based on HTTP DELETE.

@startuml

participant "Y1 consumer" as cons

participant "Near-RT RIC" as prod

cons ->> prod: 1. DELETE .../subscriptions/{subscriptionId}

prod ->> cons: 2. 204 No Content

@enduml

The Y1 consumer shall send an HTTP DELETE request to the Near-RT RIC with the resource URI "{apiRoot}/ Y1_RAI_Subscription/<apiMajorVersion>/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}" representing the "Individual Y1 RAI Subscription" resource, to delete that resource identified by the "subscriptionId" field.

The message body shall be empty.

Upon the reception of the HTTP DELETE request, the Near-RT RIC shall remove the "Individual Y1 RAI Subscription" resource according to the request.

If the Near-RT RIC successfully removes the "Individual Y1 RAI Subscription" resource, the Near-RT RIC shall respond with "204 No Content" status code.

If an error occurs when processing the HTTP DELETE request, the Near-RT RIC shall send an HTTP error response as specified in clause 6.2.2.6.

##### 6.2.2.1.4 RAI_Notify service operation

The RAI_Notify service operation is used by the Near-RT RIC to send RAI notifications to the Y1 consumer, or to terminate the subscription.

Figure 6.2.2.1.4.2-1 shows a scenario where the Near-RT RIC sends a request to the Y1 Consumer to send RAI notifications or to terminate the subscription. The operation is based on HTTP POST.

@startuml

participant "Y1 consumer" as prod

participant "Near-RT RIC" as cons

cons ->> prod: 1. POST{notificationTargetAddress}

prod ->> cons: 2. "204 No Content"

@enduml

The Near-RT RIC shall send an HTTP POST request to the Y1 consumer with "{notificationTargetAddress}" as the resource URL.

The request shall be triggered according to the notification criteria as the "notificationCriteria" attribute in the subscription request, or when Near-RT RIC determines to terminate the subscription.

When the request is triggered by the notification criteria, the "RaiNotification" data structure provided in the request body shall include:

- -	the subscription ID as the "subscriptionId" attribute;
- -	the RAI reports in the "raiReports" attribute that, for each RAI report, the "RaiReport" data type shall include:
When the request is to terminate the subscription, the "RaiNotification" data structure provided in the request body shall include:

- -	the subscription ID as the "subscriptionId" attribute;
- -	the termination indication as the "raiSubscriptionTerminationIndication" which is set to "TRUE";
and may include:

- -	the reason for which Near-RT RIC terminates the subscription.
Upon the reception of the HTTP POST request, the Y1 consumer shall process the information in the message.

If the Y1 consumer successfully processes the request, the Y1 consumer shall respond with "204 No Content" status code.

If errors occur when processing the HTTP DELETE request, the Y1 consumer shall send an HTTP error response as specified in clause 6.2.2.6.

#### 6.2.2.2 Resources

##### 6.2.2.2.1 Resource URI structure

The resource URI shall have the structure as defined in clause 5.2.3.1 with the following clarifications:

- -	The <apiName> shall be "Y1_RAI_Subscription".
- -	The <apiMajorVersion> shall be "v1".
- -	The <apiSpecificResourceUriPart> shall be set as illustrated in figure 6.2.2.2.1-1.
Table 6.2.2.2.1-1 provides an overview of the resources and applicable HTTP methods for the Y1_RAI_Subscription API.

| Resource name | API specific resource URI part | HTTP method or custom operation | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| All Y1 RAI Subscriptions | /subscriptions | POST | Creates a new Individual Y1 RAI Subscription resource. |
| Individual Y1 RAI Subscription | /subscriptions/{subscriptionId} | DELETE | Deletes an Individual Y1 RAI Subscription resource identified by {subscriptionId}. |
| Individual Y1 RAI Subscription | /subscriptions/{subscriptionId} | PUT | Updates an existing Individual Y1 RAI Subscription resource. |

##### 6.2.2.2.2 Resource: All Y1 RAI Subscriptions

The All Y1 RAI Subscriptions resource represents all subscriptions to the Y1_RAI_Subscription service at a given Near-RT RIC. The resource allows a Y1 consumer to create a new Individual Y1 RAI Subscription resource.

Resource URI: {apiRoot}/Y1_RAI_Subscription/v1/subscriptions

This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in table 6.2.2.2.2.2.

| Name | Data type | Definition |
| --- | --- | --- |
| apiRoot | string | See clause 5.2.3.1 |

This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table 6.2.2.2.2.3.1-1.

| Name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| n/a |  |  |  |  |

This method shall support the request data structures specified in table 6.2.2.2.2.3.1-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in table 6.2.2.2.2.3.1-3.

| Data type | P | Cardinality | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| RaiSubscription | M | 1 | Create a new Individual Y1 RAI Subscription resource. |

| Data type | P | Cardinality | Response codes | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| RaiSubscription | M | 1 | 201 Created | The creation of an Individual Y1 RAI Subscription resource is confirmed and a representation of that resource is returned. |
| ProblemDetails | O | 0..1 | 500 Internal Server Error | (NOTE 2) |
| NOTE 1:	The mandatory HTTP error status codes for the POST method used by [7] also apply. See clause 5.2.5. NOTE 2:	Failure cases are described in clause 6.2.2.6. |  |  |  |  |

| Name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Location | string | M | 1 | Contains the URI of the newly created resource, according to the structure: {apiRoot}/Y1_RAI_Subscription/v1/subscriptions/{subscriptionId} |

No custom operations are defined in the present document.

##### 6.2.2.2.3 Resource: Individual Y1 RAI Subscription

The Individual Y1 RAI Subscription resource represents a single subscription to the Y1_RAI_Subscription service via Y1 interface.

Resource URI: {apiRoot}/Y1_RAI_Subscription/v1/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}

This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in table 6.2.2.2.3.2-1.

| Name | Data type | Definition |
| --- | --- | --- |
| apiRoot | string | See clause 5.2.3.1 |
| subscriptionId | string | Identifies a subscription to the Y1_RAI_Subscription service |

This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table 6.2.2.2.3.3.1-1.

| Name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| n/a |  |  |  |  |

This method shall support the request data structures specified in table 6.2.2.2.3.3.1-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in table 6.2.2.2.3.3.1-3.

| Data type | P | Cardinality | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| n/a |  |  |  |

| Data type | P | Cardinality | Response codes | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| n/a |  | 204 No Content | Successful case: The Individual Y1 RAI Subscription resource matching the subscriptionId is deleted. |  |
| NOTE 1:	The mandatory HTTP error status codes for the DELETE method used by [7] also apply. See clause 5.2.5. |  |  |  |  |

This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table 6.2.2.2.3.3.2-1.

| Name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| n/a |  |  |  |  |

This method shall support the request data structures specified in table 6.2.2.2.3.3.2-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in table 6.2.2.2.3.3.2-3.

| Data type | P | Cardinality | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| RaiSubscription | M | 1 | Parameters to update an existing Individual Y1 RAI Subscription resource. |

| Data type | P | Cardinality | Response codes | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| RaiSubscription | M | 1 | 200 OK | The Individual Y1 RAI Subscription resource is modified successfully and a representation of that resource is returned. |
| n/a |  | 204 No Content | The Individual Y1 RAI Subscription resource is modified successfully. |  |
| ProblemDetails | O | 0..1 | 500 Internal Server Error | (NOTE 2) |
| NOTE 1:	The mandatory HTTP error status codes for the PUT method used by [7] also apply. See clause 5.2.5.  NOTE 2:	Failure cases are described in clause 6.2.2.6. |  |  |  |  |

No custom operations are defined in the present document.

#### 6.2.2.3 Custom operations without associated resources

No custom operations are defined in the present document.

#### 6.2.2.4 Notifications

##### 6.2.2.4.1 General

The notifications are summarized in Table 6.2.2.4.1-1.

| Notification | Callback URI | Mapped HTTP method | Description (service operation) |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| RAI Notification | {notificationTargetAddress} | POST | RAI_Notify operation. |

##### 6.2.2.4.2 RAI Notification

The RAI Notification is used by the Near-RT RIC to report RAI to a Y1 consumer that has subscribed to such RAI associated with an Individual Y1 RAI Subscription resource, or to notify termination of the RAI subscription.

Callback URI: {notificationTargetAddress}

The operation shall support the URI variables defined in table 6.2.2.4.2.2-1, the request data structures specified in table 6.2.2.4.2.2-2 and the response data structure and response codes specified in table 6.2.2.4.2.2-3.

| Name | Data type | Definition |
| --- | --- | --- |
| notificationTargetAddress | Uri | The Notification URI as assigned within the Individual Y1 RAI Subscription resource and described within the RAISubscription type. |

| Data type | P | Cardinality | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| RaiNotification | M | 1 | Provides RAI or notifies termination of the RAI subscription. |

| Data type | P | Cardinality | Response codes | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| n/a |  | 204 No Content | The RAI Notification is acknowledged by the receiver. |  |
| NOTE:	The mandatory HTTP error status codes for the DELETE method used by [7] also apply. See clause 5.2.5. |  |  |  |  |

#### 6.2.2.5 Data model

##### 6.2.2.5.1 General

This clause specifies the application data model.

Table 6.2.2.5.1-1 specifies the data types defined for the Y1_RAI_Subscription API in this specification.

| Data type | Clause | Description | Applicability |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| NotificationCriteria | 6.2.2.5.2.3 | Contains the timing or the event that triggers RAI notifications. |  |
| NotificationMethod | 6.2.2.5.3.3 | Represents the method used for RAI notifications. |  |
| RaiNotification | 6.2.2.5.2.4 | Represents an individual occurrence of RAI notification. |  |
| RaiReport | 6.2.2.5.2.5 | Represents a RAI report in a RAI notification. |  |
| RaiSubscription | 6.2.2.5.2.2 | Represents an individual RAI subscription. |  |
| TerminationCause | 6.2.2.5.3.4 | Indicates the cause from the Near-RT RIC to terminate a RAI subscription. |  |
| ValidityPeriod | 6.2.2.5.2.7 | Indicate a validity period in UTC time. |  |
| ValidityPeriodRelative | 6.2.2.5.2.6 | Indicate a validity period relative to a RAI notification. |  |

Table 6.2.2.5.1-2 specifies the data types re-used by the Y1_RAI_Subscription API from other specifications.

| Data type | Reference | Comments | Applicability |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| DateTime | 3GPP TS 29.571 [8] | Identifies the actual date and time. |  |
| FilterParameters | Y1TD [2] | Describes the filter(s) used for the RAI contents. This data type is defined per RAI type. |  |
| NotificationTriggerEvent | Y1TD [2] | Contains the event that triggers RAI notifications. This data type is defined per RAI type. |  |
| RAIContents | Y1TD [2] | Contains the actual RAI contents. This data type is defined per RAI type. |  |
| RaiTypeId | Y1TD [2] | Indicates the type of RAI. |  |
| RaiTypeVersion | Y1TD [2] | Indicates the version of the RAI type. |  |
| TargetEntity | Y1TD [2] | Contains information used to identify a target entity with which a RAI report is associated. This data type is defined per RAI type. |  |

##### 6.2.2.5.2 Structured data types

This clause defines data structures to be used in resource representations.

| Attribute name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | Applicability |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| raiType | RaiTypeId | M | 1 | The type of RAI. |  |
| raiTypeVersion | RaiTypeVersion | M | 1 | Version of the RAI type. |  |
| targetEntities | array(TargetEntity) | M | 1..N | Information that identifies the entity/entities to which the requested RAI is related. |  |
| expectedValidityPeriodsRelative | array(ValidityPeriodRelative) | O | 1..N | Represents the expected validity period(s) for the RAI, which is relative to the occurrence of a RAI notification. |  |
| filterParameters | FilterParameters | O | 1 | The conditions for filtering RAI contents to be included in a RAI notification. |  |
| notificationCriteria | NotificationCriteria | M | 1 | Represents the timing or the events when the RAI notifications are triggered. |  |
| notificationTargetAddress | Uri | C | 0..1 | Identifies the recipient of RAI notifications sent by the Near-RT RIC. This parameter shall be supplied by the Y1 consumer in the HTTP POST requests that create the subscriptions for RAI notifications, and in the HTTP PUT requests that update the subscriptions for RAI notifications. |  |

| Attribute name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | Applicability |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| notificationMethod | NotificationMethod | M | 1 | Represents the notification method, e.g., periodic. |  |
| notificationPeriod | integer | C | 0..1 | Indicates the periodicity of RAI notifications, in units of milliseconds. Shall be present when the "notificationMethod" attribute is set to "PERIODIC". |  |
| notificationStartTime | DateTime | O | 0..1 | UTC time indicating the expected time of the first RAI notification.  May be present when the "notificationMethod" attribute is set to "PERIODIC". |  |
| notificationTriggerEvent | NotificationTriggerEvent | C | 0..1 | Represents the trigger event for RAI notifications.  Shall be present when notificationMethod is set to "EVENT_TRIGGERED". |  |

| Attribute name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | Applicability |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| subscriptionId | String | M | 1 | Identifies the RAI subscription with which the RAI notification is associated. |  |
| terminationIndication | boolean | C | 0..1 | Indicates the termination of the RAI subscription by the Near-RT RIC. Shall be present and set to "TRUE" when the Near-RT RIC decides to terminate the subscription. |  |
| terminationCause | TerminationCause | O | 0..1 | Indicates the reason why Near-RT RIC terminates the RAI subscription. May be present when the "terminationIndication" attribute is set to "TRUE". |  |
| raiReports | array(RaiReport) | C | 1..N | Represents the RAI reports. Shall be present when the "terminationIndication" attribute is absent or set to "FALSE". |  |

| Attribute name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | Applicability |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| targetEntity | TargetEntity | M | 1 | The type of RAI. |  |
| validityPeriod | ValidityPeriod | M | 1 | The validity period of the RAI report. |  |
| raiContents | RaiContents | M | 1 | Contains the actual RAI contents. |  |
| confidence | integer | O | 0..1 | Indicates the confidence of a prediction, in unit of percent. Minimum = 0. Maximum = 100. |  |
| timeStampRaiGeneration | DateTime | O | 0..1 | Indicates the timestamp when the RAI report is generated by the Near-RT RIC. |  |

| Attribute name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | Applicability |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| startTimeRelative | integer | M | 1 | Indicate the start time of the validity period in a relative manner, which is expressed as a time offset relative to the time of the RAI notification, in units of milliseconds. A negative value means a point of time before the RAI notification, and a positive value means a point of time after the RAI notification. |  |
| durationMilliSecond | integer | O | 0..1 | Indicate the duration of validity period, in units of milliseconds. The absence of the attribute means a zero duration, i.e., the RAI is calculated only for the point of time given by the start time of the validity period. |  |

| Attribute name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | Applicability |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| startTime | DateTime | M | 1 | Indicate the start time of the validity period in UTC time. |  |
| durationMilliSecond | integer | O | 0..1 | Indicate the duration of validity period, in units of milliseconds. The absence of the attribute means a zero duration, i.e., the RAI is calculated only for the point of time given by the start time of the validity period. |  |

##### 6.2.2.5.3 Simple data types and enumerations

This clause defines simple data types and enumerations that can be referenced from data structures defined in the previous clauses.

The simple data types defined in table 6.2.2.5.3.2-1 shall be supported.

| Type Name | Type Definition | Description | Applicability |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| n/a |  |  |  |

| Enumeration value | Description | Applicability |
| --- | --- | --- |
| PERIODIC | The RAI notifications are sent with certain time interval. |  |
| EVENT_TRIGGERED | The RAI notifications are triggered by certain event. |  |

| Enumeration value | Description | Applicability |
| --- | --- | --- |
| UNKNOWN | Indicates the RAI subscription is terminated due to unknown reasons. |  |
| OVERLOAD | Indicates the RAI subscription is terminated due to overload in the Near-RT RIC. |  |

#### 6.2.2.6 Error handling

##### 6.2.2.6.1 General

The generic mechanism for error handling is described in clause 5.2.5. In addition, the requirements in the following clause 6.2.2.6.2 and clause 6.2.2.6.3 shall be applied.

##### 6.2.2.6.2 Protocol Errors

In the present document, no additional protocol errors are defined for the Y1_RAI_Subscription API.

##### 6.2.2.6.3 Application Errors

The application errors specific to the Y1_RAI_Subscription API are listed in table 6.2.2.6.2-1. The Near-RT RIC shall include in the HTTP status code a "ProblemDetails" data structure with the "cause" attribute indicating the application error as listed in table 6.2.2.6.2-1.

| Application Error | HTTP status code | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| DATA_UNAVAILABLE | 500 Internal Server Error | Indicates the RAI subscription is rejected since necessary data to perform the analysis is unavailable. |

## 6.3 Y1_RAI_Query service API

### 6.3.1 Introduction

The Y1_RAI_Query API is used to access the Y1_RAI_Query service.

The service operations and corresponding API definitions are organized in the following clauses for different solution sets.

### 6.3.2 HTTP REST with JSON solution set

#### 6.3.2.1 Service operations

##### 6.3.2.1.1 Introduction

Table 6.3.2.1.1-1 lists the operations supported by the Y1_RAI_Query service for the solution set "HTTP REST with JSON".

| Service operation name | Description | Initiated by |
| --- | --- | --- |
| RAI_Query | This service operation is used by a Y1 consumer to query specific RAI from Near-RT RIC. | Y1 consumer |

##### 6.3.2.1.2 RAI_Query service operation

The RAI_Query service operation is used by a Y1 consumer to query specific RAI from the Near-RT RIC.

Figure 6.3.2.1.2.2-1 shows a scenario where the Y1 consumer sends a request to the Near-RT RIC to query RAI. The operation is based on HTTP GET.

@startuml

participant "Y1 consumer" as cons

participant "Near-RT RIC" as prod

cons ->> prod : 1. GET .../analytics?query_parameters

prod ->> cons : 2. 200 OK

@enduml

The Y1 consumer shall send an HTTP GET request to the Near-RT RIC on the resource URI "{apiRoot}/Y1_RAI_Query/<apiMajorVersion>/analytics" representing the "Y1 RAI" resource, to request RAI.

> NOTE:	The path segment " Y1_RAI_Query " does not follow the related naming convention specified in clause 5.2.4.1 of [7]. The path segment is however kept as currently defined in this specification for backward compatibility considerations.
The following information shall be provided:

- -	the type of RAI as the "raiType" attribute;
- -	the version of the RAI type as the "raiTypeVersion" attribute;
- -	the target entity/entities of the RAI in the "targetEntities" attribute.
The following information may be provided:

- -	the expected validity period(s) for the RAI in the "expectedValidityPeriods" attribute; an expected validity period before the occurrence of a RAI query refers to statistics for a past time, and an expected validity period after the occurrence of a RAI query refers to a prediction for a future time.
- -	the filter parameters to filter RAI contents in the RAI report as the "filterParameters" attribute;
Upon the reception of the HTTP GET request, the Near-RT RIC shall analyse RAI according to the request.

If the HTTP request message from the Y1 consumer is accepted, the Near-RT RIC shall respond with "200 OK" status code with the message body containing the RAI with parameters as relevant for the requesting Y1 consumer. The "raiQueryResult" data structure in the response body shall include:

- -	the RAI reports in the "raiReports" attribute that, for each RAI report, the "RaiReport" data type shall include:
If an error occurs when processing the HTTP POST request, the Near-RT RIC shall send an HTTP error response as specified in clause 6.2.2.6. In particular,

- -	If the necessary data to perform the analysis are unavailable, the Near-RT RIC shall reject the request with a "500 Internal Server Error" status code and a "ProblemDetails" data structure including the "cause" attribute set to "DATA_UNAVAILABLE".

#### 6.3.2.2 Resources

##### 6.3.2.2.1 Resource URI structure

The resource URI shall have the structure as defined in clause 5.2.3.1 with the following clarifications:

- -	The <apiName> shall be "Y1_RAI_Query".
- -	The <apiMajorVersion> shall be "v1".
- -	The <apiSpecificResourceUriPart> shall be set as illustrated in figure 6.3.2.2.1-1.
Table 6.3.2.2.1-1 provides an overview of the resources and applicable HTTP methods for the Y1_RAI_Query API.

| Resource name | API specific resource URI part | HTTP method or custom operation | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Y1 RAI | /analytics | GET | Retrieve the RAI |

##### 6.3.2.2.2 Resource: Y1 RAI

The Y1 RAI resource represents the RAI to the RAI_Query Service at a given Near-RT RIC.

Resource URI: {apiRoot}/Y1_RAI_Query/v1/analytics

This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in table 6.3.2.2.2.2-1.

| Name | Data type | Definition |
| --- | --- | --- |
| apiRoot | string | See clause 5.2.3.1 |

This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table 6.3.2.2.2.3.1-1.

| Name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| raiType | RaiTypeId | M | 1 | Indicates the type of RAI. |
| raiTypeVersion | RaiTypeVersion | M | 1 | Indicates the version of the RAI type. |
| targetEntities | array(TargetEntity) | M | 1..N | Information that identifies the entity/entities to which the requested RAI is related. |
| expectedValidityPeriods | array(ValidityPeriod) | O | 1..N | Represents the expected validity period(s) for the RAI. |
| filterParameters | FilterParameters | O | 1 | Describes the filter(s) used for the RAI contents. |
| NOTE:	The query parameters "raiType", "raiTypeVersion", "targetEntities", "expectedValidityPeriods" and "filterParameters" do not follow the related naming convention specified in clause 5.2.4.1 of [7]. These query parameters are however kept as currently defined in this specification for backward compatibility considerations. |  |  |  |  |

This method shall support the request data structures specified in table 6.3.2.2.2.3.1-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in table 6.3.2.2.2.3.1-3.

| Data type | P | Cardinality | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| n/a |  |  |  |

| Data type | P | Cardinality | Response codes | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| RaiQueryResult | M | 1 | 200 OK | Containing the RAI with parameters as relevant for the requesting Y1 consumer |
| ProblemDetails | O | 0..1 | 500 Internal Server Error | (NOTE 2) |
| NOTE 1:	The mandatory HTTP error status codes for the GET method used by [7] also apply. See clause 5.2.5. NOTE 2:	Failure cases are described in clause 6.3.2.6. |  |  |  |  |

#### 6.3.2.3 Custom operations without associated resources

No custom operations are defined in the present document.

#### 6.3.2.4 Notifications

No notifications are defined in the present document.

#### 6.3.2.5 Data model

##### 6.3.2.5.1 General

Table 6.3.2.5.1-1 specifies the data types defined for the Y1_RAI_Query API in this specification.

| Data type | Clause | Description | Applicability |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| RaiQueryResult | 6.3.2.5.2.2 | Contains the RAI with parameters indicated in the request. |  |

Table 6.3.2.5.1-2 specifies the data types re-used by the Y1_RAI_Query API from other specifications.

| Data type | Reference | Comments | Applicability |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| DateTime | 3GPP TS 29.571 [8] | Identifies the actual date and time. |  |
| FilterParameters | Y1TD [2] | Describes the filter(s) used for the RAI contents. This data type is defined per RAI type. |  |
| RAIContents | Y1TD [2] | Contains the actual RAI contents. This data type is defined per RAI type. |  |
| RaiReport | 6.2.2.5.2.5 | Represents a RAI report in a RAI query result. |  |
| RaiTypeId | Y1TD [2] | Indicates the type of RAI. |  |
| RaiTypeVersion | Y1TD [2] | Indicates the version of the RAI type. |  |
| TargetEntity | Y1TD [2] | Contains information used to identify a target entity with which a RAI report is associated. This data type is defined per RAI type. |  |
| ValidityPeriod | 6.2.2.5.2.7 | Indicate a validity period in UTC time. |  |

##### 6.3.2.5.2 Structured data types

This clause defines data structures to be used in resource representations.

| Attribute name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | Applicability |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| raiReports | array(RaiReport) | M | 1..N | Represents the RAI reports. |  |

##### 6.3.2.5.3 Simple data types and enumerations

This clause defines simple data types and enumerations that can be referenced from data structures defined in the previous clauses.

The simple data types defined in table 6.3.2.5.3.2-1 shall be supported.

| Type Name | Type Definition | Description | Applicability |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| n/a |  |  |  |

#### 6.3.2.6 Error handling

##### 6.3.2.6.1 General

The generic mechanism for error handling is described in clause 5.2.5. In addition, the requirements in the following clauses shall apply.

##### 6.3.2.6.2 Protocol Errors

In the present document, no additional protocol errors are defined for the Y1_RAI_Query API.

##### 6.3.2.6.3 Application Errors

The application errors specific to the Y1_RAI_Query API are listed in table 6.3.2.6.3-1. The Near-RT RIC shall include in the HTTP status code a "ProblemDetails" data structure with the "cause" attribute indicating the application error as listed in table 6.2.2.6.3-1.

| Application Error | HTTP status code | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| DATA_UNAVAILABLE | 500 Internal Server Error | Indicates the RAI subscription is rejected since necessary data to perform the analysis is unavailable. |

## A.1 General

This Annex specifies the formal definition of the Y1 service API(s). It consists of OpenAPI documents in YAML format that are based on the OpenAPI Specification [2].

## A.2 Y1_RAI_Subscription API

openapi: 3.1.0

info:

title: Y1_RAI_Subscription API

description: |

Y1_RAI_Subscription API as part of Y1 interface.

© 2023, O-RAN ALLIANCE

All rights reserved.

version: "1.0.0"

externalDocs:

description: O-RAN.WG3.Y1AP-v01.00

url: 'https://www.o-ran.org/specifications'

servers:

- url: '{apiRoot}/Y1_RAI_Subscription/v1'

variables:

apiRoot:

default: https://example.com

description: apiRoot as defined in clause 5.2.3 of O-RAN.WG3.Y1AP-v01.00

paths:

/subscriptions:

post:

description: Creates a new Individual Y1 RAI Subscription.

operationId: CreateY1RAISubscription

requestBody:

required: true

content:

application/json:

schema:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/RaiSubscription'

responses:

'201':

description: >

The Individual Y1 RAI Subscription resource is created successfully and a

representation of that resource is returned.

content:

application/json:

schema:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/RaiSubscription'

headers:

Location:

description: >

Contains the URI of the newly created resource, according to the structure

{apiRoot}/Y1_RAI_Subscription/v1/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}

required: true

schema:

type: string

'400':

$ref: '#/components/responses/400'

'401':

$ref: '#/components/responses/401'

'403':

$ref: '#/components/responses/403'

'404':

$ref: '#/components/responses/404'

'411':

$ref: '#/components/responses/411'

'413':

$ref: '#/components/responses/413'

'415':

$ref: '#/components/responses/415'

'429':

$ref: '#/components/responses/429'

'500':

$ref: '#/components/responses/500'

'503':

$ref: '#/components/responses/503'

default:

$ref: '#/components/responses/default'

callbacks:

RAINotification:

'{$request.body#/notificationTargetAddress}':

post:

requestBody:  # contents of the callback message

required: true

content:

application/json:

schema:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/RaiNotification'

responses:

'204':

description: No Content (successful notification)

'307':

$ref: '#/components/responses/307'

'308':

$ref: '#/components/responses/308'

'400':

$ref: '#/components/responses/400'

'401':

$ref: '#/components/responses/401'

'403':

$ref: '#/components/responses/403'

'404':

$ref: '#/components/responses/404'

'411':

$ref: '#/components/responses/411'

'413':

$ref: '#/components/responses/413'

'415':

$ref: '#/components/responses/415'

'429':

$ref: '#/components/responses/429'

'500':

$ref: '#/components/responses/500'

'503':

$ref: '#/components/responses/503'

default:

$ref: '#/components/responses/default'

/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}:

delete:

description: Deletes an Individual Y1 RAI Subscription.

operationId: DeleteY1RAISubscription

parameters:

- name: subscriptionId

in: path

description: Identifier of the Individual Y1 RAI Subscription

required: true

schema:

type: string

responses:

'204':

description: >

The Individual Y1 RAI Subscription resource matching the subscriptionId is deleted.

'307':

$ref: '#/components/responses/307'

'308':

$ref: '#/components/responses/308'

'400':

$ref: '#/components/responses/400'

'401':

$ref: '#/components/responses/401'

'403':

$ref: '#/components/responses/403'

'404':

$ref: '#/components/responses/404'

'429':

$ref: '#/components/responses/429'

'500':

$ref: '#/components/responses/500'

'503':

$ref: '#/components/responses/503'

default:

$ref: '#/components/responses/default'

put:

description: Updates an Individual Y1 RAI Subscription

operationId: UpdateY1RAISubscription

requestBody:

required: true

content:

application/json:

schema:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/RaiSubscription'

parameters:

- name: subscriptionId

in: path

description: Identifier of the Individual Y1 RAI Subscription

required: true

schema:

type: string

responses:

'200':

description: >

The Individual Y1 RAI Subscription resource is updated successfully and a

representation of that resource is returned.

content:

application/json:

schema:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/RaiSubscription'

'204':

description: The Individual Y1 RAI Subscription resource is updated successfully.

'307':

$ref: '#/components/responses/307'

'308':

$ref: '#/components/responses/308'

'400':

$ref: '#/components/responses/400'

'401':

$ref: '#/components/responses/401'

'403':

$ref: '#/components/responses/403'

'404':

$ref: '#/components/responses/404'

'411':

$ref: '#/components/responses/411'

'413':

$ref: '#/components/responses/413'

'415':

$ref: '#/components/responses/415'

'429':

$ref: '#/components/responses/429'

'500':

$ref: '#/components/responses/500'

'503':

$ref: '#/components/responses/503'

default:

$ref: '#/components/responses/default'

components:

schemas:

RaiSubscription:

type: object

description: Represents an Individual RAI Subscription resource.

properties:

raiType:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/RaiTypeId'

raiTypeVersion:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/RaiTypeVersion'

targetEntities:

type: array

items:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/TargetEntity'

minItems: 1

expectedValidityPeriodsRelative:

type: array

items:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/ValidityPeriodRelative'

filterParameters:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/FilterParameters'

notificationCriteria:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/NotificationCriteria'

notificationTargetAddress:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/Uri'

required:

- raiType

- raiTypeVersion

- notificationCriteria

- targetEntities

NotificationCriteria:

type: object

description: Contains the timing or event that triggers RAI notifications.

properties:

notificationMethod:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/NotificationMethod'

notificationPeriod:

type: integer

description: Indicates the interval of periodic RAI notifications in units of milliseconds.

notificationStartTime:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/DateTime'

description: Indicates the expected time of the first notification for the periodic RAI notifications.

notificationTriggerEvent:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/NotificationTriggerEvent'

required:

- notificationMethod

RaiNotification:

type: object

description: Represents a RAI notification.

properties:

subscriptionId:

type: string

description: >

Identifier of the subscription resource to which the RAI notification

is related.

terminationIndication:

type: boolean

description: When true, indicates the termination of the RAI subscription by the Near-RT RIC.

terminationCause:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/TerminationCause'

raiReports:

type: array

items:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/RaiReport'

minItems: 1

required:

- subscriptionId

RaiTypeId:

type: string

description: Indicates the type of RAI. It is defined in Y1TD.

RaiTypeVersion:

type: string

description: Indicates the version of the RAI type. It is defined in Y1TD.

RaiContents:

type: object

description: Contains the actual RAI contents. It is defined in Y1TD per RAI type.

RaiReport:

type: object

description: Represents a RAI report in a RAI notification.

properties:

targetEntity:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/TargetEntity'

validityPeriod:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/ValidityPeriod'

raiContents:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/RaiContents'

confidence:

type: integer

minimum: 0

maximum: 100

description: Indicates the confidence of a prediction, in unit of percent.

timeStampRaiGeneration:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/DateTime'

description: The date and time when the RAI report is generated.

required:

- targetEntity

- validityPeriod

- raiContents

TargetEntity:

type: object

description: Contains information used to identify a target entity with which a RAI report is associated. It is defined in Y1TD per RAI type.

TerminationCause:

type: string

enum:

- UNKNOWN

- OVERLOAD

description: Indicates the cause from the Near-RT RIC to terminate a RAI subscription.

ValidityPeriodRelative:

type: object

description: Indicate a validity period relative to a RAI notification.

properties:

startTimeRelative:

type: integer

description: Indicate the start time of the validity period in a relative manner, which is expressed as a time offset relative to the time of the RAI notification, in units of milliseconds

durationMilliSecond:

type: integer

description: Indicate the duration of validity period, in units of milliseconds.

required:

- startTimeRelative

ValidityPeriod:

type: object

description: Indicate a validity period in UTC time.

properties:

startTime:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/DateTime'

durationMilliSecond:

type: integer

description: Indicate the duration of validity period, in units of milliseconds.

required:

- startTime

FilterParameters:

type: object

description: Describes the filter(s) used for the RAI contents. It is defined in Y1TD per RAI type.

NotificationMethod:

type: string

enum:

- PERIODIC

- EVENT_TRIGGERED

description: Represents the method used for RAI notifications.

NotificationTriggerEvent:

type: object

description: Contains the event that triggers RAI notifications. It is defined in Y1TD per RAI type.

DateTime:

type: string

format: date-time

description: date and time as defined by RFC3339.

Uri:

type: string

description: string providing an URI formatted according to IETF RFC 3986.

ProblemDetails:

type: object

properties:

type:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/Uri'

title:

type: string

description: A short, human-readable summary of the problem type. It should not change from occurrence to occurrence of the problem.

status:

type: integer

description: The HTTP status code for this occurrence of the problem.

detail:

type: string

description: A human-readable explanation specific to this occurrence of the problem.

instance:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/Uri'

cause:

type: string

description: A machine-readable application error cause specific to this occurrence of the problem. This IE should be present and provide application-related error information, if available.

invalidParams:

type: array

items:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/InvalidParam'

minItems: 1

description: Description of invalid parameters, for a request rejected due to invalid parameters.

InvalidParam:

type: object

properties:

param:

type: string

description: Attribute's name encoded as a JSON Pointer, or header's name.

reason:

type: string

description: A human-readable reason, e.g. "must be a positive integer".

required:

- param

#

# HTTP Responses

#

responses:

'307':

description: Temporary Redirect

headers:

Location:

description: 'An alternative URI of the resource.'

required: true

schema:

type: string

'308':

description: Permanent Redirect

headers:

Location:

description: 'An alternative URI of the resource.'

required: true

schema:

type: string

'400':

description: Bad request

content:

application/problem+json:

schema:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails'

'401':

description: Unauthorized

content:

application/problem+json:

schema:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails'

'403':

description: Forbidden

content:

application/problem+json:

schema:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails'

'404':

description: Not Found

content:

application/problem+json:

schema:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails'

'406':

description: Not Acceptable

content:

application/problem+json:

schema:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails'

'409':

description: Conflict

content:

application/problem+json:

schema:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails'

'411':

description: Length Required

content:

application/problem+json:

schema:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails'

'412':

description: Precondition Failed

content:

application/problem+json:

schema:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails'

'413':

description: Payload Too Large

content:

application/problem+json:

schema:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails'

'414':

description: URI Too Long

content:

application/problem+json:

schema:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails'

'415':

description: Unsupported Media Type

content:

application/problem+json:

schema:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails'

'429':

description: Too Many Requests

content:

application/problem+json:

schema:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails'

'500':

description: Internal Server Error

content:

application/problem+json:

schema:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails'

'503':

description: Service Unavailable

content:

application/problem+json:

schema:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails'

default:

description: Generic Error

## A.3 Y1_RAI_Query API

openapi: 3.1.0

info:

title: Y1_RAI_Query API

description: |

Y1_RAI_Query API as part of Y1 interface.

© 2023, O-RAN ALLIANCE

All rights reserved.

version: "1.0.0"

externalDocs:

description: O-RAN.WG3.Y1AP-v01.00

url: 'https://www.o-ran.org/specifications'

servers:

- url: '{apiRoot}/Y1_RAI_Query/v1'

variables:

apiRoot:

default: https://example.com

description: apiRoot as defined in clause 5.2.3 of O-RAN.WG3.Y1AP-v01.00

paths:

/analytics:

get:

description: Retrieve RAI.

operationId: GetY1RAI

parameters:

- name: raiType

in: query

description: Identify the type of RAI.

required: true

schema:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/RaiTypeId'

- name: raiTypeVersion

in: query

description: Identify the version of the RAI type.

required: true

schema:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/RaiTypeVersion'

- name: targetEntities

in: query

description: Identify the entity/entities to which the requested RAI is related.

required: true

schema:

type: array

items:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/TargetEntity'

minItems: 1

- name: expectedValidityPeriods

in: query

description: Represents the expected validity period(s) for the RAI.

required: false

schema:

type: array

items:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/ValidityPeriod'

- name: filterParameters

in: query

description: Identify the filter(s) used for the RAI contents.

required: false

schema:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/FilterParameters'

responses:

'200':

description: >

Containing the RAI query result with parameters as relevant for the requesting Y1 consumer.

content:

application/json:

schema:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/RaiQueryResult'

'400':

$ref: '#/components/responses/400'

'401':

$ref: '#/components/responses/401'

'403':

$ref: '#/components/responses/403'

'404':

description: Indicates that the Y1 RAI resource does not exist.

content:

application/problem+json:

schema:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails'

'406':

$ref: '#/components/responses/406'

'414':

$ref: '#/components/responses/414'

'429':

$ref: '#/components/responses/429'

'500':

$ref: '#/components/responses/500'

'503':

$ref: '#/components/responses/503'

default:

$ref: '#/components/responses/default'

components:

schemas:

RaiQueryResult:

type: object

description: Represents the RAI with parameters as relevant for the requesting Y1 consumer.

properties:

raiReports:

type: array

items:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/RaiReport'

minItems: 1

required:

- raiReports

RaiTypeId:

type: string

description: Indicates the type of RAI. It is defined in Y1TD.

RaiTypeVersion:

type: string

description: Indicates the version of the RAI type. It is defined in Y1TD.

RaiContents:

type: object

description: Contains the actual RAI contents. It is defined in Y1TD per RAI type.

RaiReport:

type: object

description: Represents a RAI report in a RAI notification.

properties:

targetEntity:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/TargetEntity'

validityPeriod:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/ValidityPeriod'

raiContents:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/RaiContents'

confidence:

type: integer

minimum: 0

maximum: 100

description: Indicates the confidence of a prediction, in unit of percent.

timeStampRaiGeneration:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/DateTime'

description: The date and time when the RAI report is generated.

required:

- targetEntity

- validityPeriod

- raiContents

FilterParameters:

type: object

description: Describes the filter(s) used for the RAI contents. It is defined in Y1TD per RAI type.

TargetEntity:

type: object

description: Contains information used to identify a target entity with which a RAI report is associated. It is defined in Y1TD per RAI type.

ValidityPeriod:

type: object

description: Indicate a validity period in UTC time.

properties:

startTime:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/DateTime'

durationMilliSecond:

type: integer

description: Indicate the duration of validity period, in units of milliseconds.

required:

- startTime

DateTime:

type: string

format: date-time

description: date and time as defined by RFC3339.

Uri:

type: string

description: string providing an URI formatted according to IETF RFC 3986.

ProblemDetails:

type: object

properties:

type:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/Uri'

title:

type: string

description: A short, human-readable summary of the problem type. It should not change from occurrence to occurrence of the problem.

status:

type: integer

description: The HTTP status code for this occurrence of the problem.

detail:

type: string

description: A human-readable explanation specific to this occurrence of the problem.

instance:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/Uri'

cause:

type: string

description: A machine-readable application error cause specific to this occurrence of the problem. This IE should be present and provide application-related error information, if available.

invalidParams:

type: array

items:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/InvalidParam'

minItems: 1

description: Description of invalid parameters, for a request rejected due to invalid parameters.

InvalidParam:

type: object

properties:

param:

type: string

description: Attribute's name encoded as a JSON Pointer, or header's name.

reason:

type: string

description: A human-readable reason, e.g. "must be a positive integer".

required:

- param

#

# HTTP Responses

#

responses:

'307':

description: Temporary Redirect

headers:

Location:

description: 'An alternative URI of the resource.'

required: true

schema:

type: string

'308':

description: Permanent Redirect

headers:

Location:

description: 'An alternative URI of the resource.'

required: true

schema:

type: string

'400':

description: Bad request

content:

application/problem+json:

schema:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails'

'401':

description: Unauthorized

content:

application/problem+json:

schema:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails'

'403':

description: Forbidden

content:

application/problem+json:

schema:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails'

'404':

description: Not Found

content:

application/problem+json:

schema:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails'

'406':

description: Not Acceptable

content:

application/problem+json:

schema:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails'

'409':

description: Conflict

content:

application/problem+json:

schema:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails'

'411':

description: Length Required

content:

application/problem+json:

schema:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails'

'412':

description: Precondition Failed

content:

application/problem+json:

schema:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails'

'413':

description: Payload Too Large

content:

application/problem+json:

schema:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails'

'414':

description: URI Too Long

content:

application/problem+json:

schema:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails'

'415':

description: Unsupported Media Type

content:

application/problem+json:

schema:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails'

'429':

description: Too Many Requests

content:

application/problem+json:

schema:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails'

'500':

description: Internal Server Error

content:

application/problem+json:

schema:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails'

'503':

description: Service Unavailable

content:

application/problem+json:

schema:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails'

default:

description: Generic Error


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG3.Y1GAP-R004-v01.01.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG3.Y1GAP-R004-v01.01 O-RAN Work Group 3 (Near-Real-time RAN Intelligent Controller and E2 Interface)   Y1 interface: General Aspects and Principles"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms

For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1] and O-RAN.WG1.OAD [1] apply.

## 3.2 Symbols

For the purposes of the present document, the symbols given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1] and O-RAN.WG1.OAD [1] apply.

## 3.3 Abbreviations

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1], O-RAN.WG1.OAD [1] and the following apply:

- **RAI**: RAN Analytics Information

# 4 General Aspects

## 4.1 Reference Model for Y1 interface

As depicted in Figure 4.1-1, the O-RAN architecture [1] supports authorized consumers, which may be O-RAN or 3GPP NFs, to request RAN analytics information from Near-RT RIC via Y1 interface.

## 4.2 Y1 interface general principles

The general principles for the specification of the Y1 interface are as follows:

- -	The Y1 interface is an open logical interface that enables services to be accessed by authorized consumers;
- -	The Y1 interface enables a multi-vendor environment and is independent of specific implementations of the Near-RT RIC;
- -	The Y1 interface is defined in an extensible way that enables new services and data types to be added without needing to change the protocols or the procedures.

## 4.3 Y1 interface specification objectives

The Y1 interface shall support the following:

- -	inter-connection of Near-RT RIC and Y1 consumers.

# 5 Y1 services and operations

## 5.1 Introduction

Table 5.1-1 illustrates the services that shall be supported on Y1 interface.

| Service Name | Service Operations | Operation Semantics |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Y1_RAI_Subscription | RAI_Subscribe | Subscribe / Notify |
|  | RAI_Unsubscribe |  |
|  | RAI_Notify |  |
| Y1_RAI_Query | RAI_Query | Request / Response |

## 5.2 Y1_RAI_Subscription service

### 5.2.1 General

Service Description: This service enables Y1 consumer to subscribe/unsubscribe for RAI.

When the subscription for RAI is accepted by Near-RT RIC, Y1 consumer receives an identifier (Subscription ID) from Near-RT RIC which shall be used to modify or delete this subscription.

### 5.2.2 RAI_Subscribe service operation

Service operation name: RAI_Subscribe.

Description: Y1 consumer subscribes to RAI.

Inputs, Required:

- -	RAI type ID: Uniquely identifies the type of RAI;
- -	Target entity: Information that identifies the entity to which the RAI is related, such as specific UE(s), slice(s), etc.;
- -	Notification target address: the endpoint for receiving the notification(s) associated with the subscription;
- -	Notification criteria: indicates the timing or the conditions when the RAI notifications are triggered.
Inputs, Optional:

- -	Filter parameters: The conditions for filtering RAI content to be included in the notification.
Outputs Required:

- -	Subscription ID, if the subscription is accepted;
- -	Error response, if the subscription is not accepted.
Outputs, Optional:

- -	None.

### 5.2.3 RAI_Unsubscribe service operation

Service operation name: RAI_Unsubscribe.

Description: Y1 consumer unsubscribes to RAI.

Inputs, Required:

- -	Subscription ID;
Inputs, Optional:

- -	None.
Outputs, Required:

- -	Operation execution result.
Outputs, Optional:

- -	None.

### 5.2.4 RAI_Notify service operation

Service operation name: RAI_Notify.

Description: Near-RT RIC notifies Y1 consumer of the RAI that has been subscribed to, or termination of the subscription.

Inputs, Required:

- -	Subscription ID;
- -	RAI type ID: see clause 5.2.2;
Inputs, Optional:

- -	The following parameters, if the notification contains RAI:
- -	The following parameters, if the notification is to terminate the subscription:
Outputs, Required:

- -	Operation execution result.
Outputs, Optional:

- -	None.

## 5.3 Y1_RAI_Query service

### 5.3.1 General

Service description: This service enables Y1 consumer to request and get RAI from Near-RT RIC.

### 5.3.2 RAI_Query service operation

Service operation name: RAI_Query.

Description: Y1 consumer queries RAI.

Inputs, Required:

- -	RAI type ID: see clause 5.2.2;
- -	Target entity: see clause 5.2.2.
Inputs, Optional:

- -	Filter parameters: The conditions for filtering RAI content to be included in the response.
Outputs, Required:

- -	RAI type ID (see clause 5.2.2), if the request is accepted;
- -	RAI content (see clause 5.2.4), if the request is accepted;
- -	Error response, if the request is not accepted.
Outputs, Optional:

- -	Timestamp of RAI generation: see clause 5.2.4;
- -	Validity period: see clause 5.2.4;
- -	Confidence: see clause 5.2.4.

# 6 Supported information types

## 6.1 Introduction

This clause specifies the information types exposed on Y1 interface.

## 6.2 RAI types

### 6.2.1 General

Table 6.2.1-1 shows the RAI types that may be supported on Y1 interface.

| RAI Type ID | Description |
| --- | --- |
| RAN performance analytics | Statistics or predictions on the RAN performance. |

### 6.2.2 RAN performance analytics

With RAN performance analytics, Near-RT RIC provides statistics or predictions on the RAN performance [2].

In particular, the following parameter values may be used in a request for this RAI type:

- -	RAI type ID: "RAN performance analytics";
- -	Target entity: e.g., S-NSSAI(s) or O-RAN UE ID;
- -	Filter Parameters:

# 7 Y1 interface protocol structure

## 7.1 General

One or more solutions in terms of network protocol and data interchange format may be supported by Y1 interface. The use of a specific solution by the Near-RT RIC and the Y1 consumer may be pre-configured or negotiated via a proper mechanism.

The solution sets defined for Y1 interface are listed in Table 7.1-1.

| Solution Set | Clause |
| --- | --- |
| Solution 1: HTTP REST with JSON | 7.2 |

## 7.2 Solution 1: HTTP REST with JSON

### 7.2.1 Introduction

The protocol stack of this solution is shown on Figure 7.2.1-1:

- -	TCP [3] shall be used to provide the communication service at the transport layer;
- -	TLS [4][5] shall be supported to provide secure HTTP [6] connections;
- -	HTTP [6] shall be used as application-level protocol;
- -	JSON format [7] shall be used in the data interchange layer for the transport of documents.

### 7.2.2 Network layer

IPv6 [8] and/or IPv4 [9] may be used as the network layer.

### 7.2.3 Transport layer

TCP [3] shall be used as transport protocol.

### 7.2.4 Security

The detailed requirements and protocols for security protection are defined in [12], clauses 5.2.7 and 5.1.3.2.

### 7.2.5 Application

As application layer, HTTP/1.1 [10] shall be supported, and HTTP/2 [11] should be supported. The HTTP semantics as defined in [6] shall be supported.

HTTP over TLS [6] shall be supported.

HTTP details such as use of standard headers, custom headers, error codes, methods, URIs etc. are specified in Application Protocols for Y1 interface.

The default TCP port numbers should be used for HTTP operation.

### 7.2.6 Data interchange

As a data interchange format, JSON [7] shall be supported.

# 8 Other Y1 interface specifications

## 8.1 Y1 interface: Application Protocol

Y1AP [13] specifies the Y1 interface application protocols.

## 8.2 Y1 interface: Type Definitions

Y1TD [14] specifies the detailed information types (e.g., RAI types) for Y1 interface.

# 9 Other Security aspects

Void


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG3.Y1TD-R004-v02.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG3.Y1TD-R004-v02.00 O-RAN Work Group 3 (Near-Real-time RAN Intelligent Controller and E2 Interface)   Y1 interface: Type Definitions"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms

For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1], O-RAN.WG1.OAD [9], O-RAN.WG3.Y1GAP [1] and O-RAN.WG3.Y1AP [2] apply.

## 3.2 Symbols

For the purposes of the present document, the symbols given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1], O-RAN.WG1.OAD [9], O-RAN.WG3.Y1GAP [1] and O-RAN.WG3.Y1AP [2] apply.

## 3.3 Abbreviations

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1], O-RAN.WG1.OAD [9], O-RAN.WG3.Y1GAP [1] and O-RAN.WG3.Y1AP [2] apply.

# 4 General

## 4.1 Introduction

The data types defined in this document are classified into the following groups:

- -	Basic data types for generic usage;
- -	Data types for RAI.

# 5 Basic data types

## 5.1 Introduction

This clause defines the basic data types for generic usage.

Table 5.1-1 summarizes the basic data types defined in this specification.

| Type Name | Clause | Description | Applicability |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| PacketDelay | 5.3.2 | Represents the packet delay. |  |
| PacketLossRate | 5.3.2 | Represents the packet loss rate. |  |
| UeId | 5.2.2 | Identifies a single UE on the Y1 interface. |  |

Table 5.1-2 summarizes the basic data types re-used from other specifications.

| Data type | Reference | Comments | Applicability |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| AmfUeNgapId | 3GPP TS 38.413 [3] | AMF UE NGAP ID. |  |
| BitRate | 3GPP TS 29.571 [4] | Bit rate. |  |
| Guami | 3GPP TS 29.571 [4] | Globally Unique AMF ID. |  |
| Snssai | 3GPP TS 29.571 [4] | S-NSSAI. |  |

## 5.2 Structured data types

### 5.2.1 Introduction

This clause defines the structured data types.

### 5.2.2 Type UeId

| Attribute name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | Applicability |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| amfUeNgapId | AmfUeNgapId | O | 0..1 | AMF UE NGAP ID. (NOTE 1) |  |
| guami | GuamI | C | 0..1 | Identify the AMF associated with the AMF UE NGAP ID. Shall be present if "amfUeNgapId" attribute is present. |  |
| NOTE 1: 	In the present document, the "amfUeNgapId" attribute shall be present as no other UE ID has been defined. |  |  |  |  |  |

### 5.2.3 Type Distribution

| Type Name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | Applicability |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| distribution | array(integer) | M | 1..N | This attribute represents the frequency distribution. The array corresponds to the bins of the distribution in ascending order, with each element containing the frequency for each bin. |  |

## 5.3 Simple data types and enumerations

### 5.3.1 Introduction

This clause defines the simple data types and the enumerations.

### 5.3.2 Simple data types

| Type Name | Type Definition | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| PacketDelay | integer | Unsigned integer indicating the packet delay as defined in [3], in units of milliseconds. |
| PacketLossRate | integer | Unsigned integer indicating packet loss rate as defined in [3], in units of tenth of percent. Minimum = 0. Maximum = 1000. |

# 6 RAI specific data types

## 6.1 Introduction

The data types for RAI are defined per RAI type as specified in clause 6.2 of [1]. Such data types shall be processed according to the RAI type ID and associated RAI type version in the application protocol messages [2].

The RAI types and associated RAI type versions defined in this document are summarized in Table 6.1-1.

| RAI Type ID | Clause | Version | Supported solution sets |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| RAN performance analytics | 6.2 | 1.1.0 | JSON |

Table 6.1-2 summarizes the data types defined per RAI type.

| Data type | Description | Reference |
| --- | --- | --- |
| RaiTypeId | Indicates the RAI type. |  |
| RaiTypeVersion | Indicates the version of the RAI type. |  |
| FilterParameters | Describes the filter(s) used for the RAI contents. |  |
| RaiContents | Contains the actual RAI. |  |
| TargetEntity | Contains information used to identify a target entity with which the RAI is associated. |  |
| NotificationTriggerEvent | Describes the event that triggers RAI notifications. |  |

## 6.2 RAI type: RAN performance analytics

### 6.2.1 Introduction

This RAI type provides analytics about RAN performance including UE throughput, packet delay, packet loss rate.

The RAI type ID is "RAN performance analytics".

In the present document, the version of the RAI type is "1.1.0".

### 6.2.2 Data model

#### 6.2.2.1 Introduction

The data types dedicated for RAI type "RAN performance analytics" are specified in the following clauses.

#### 6.2.2.2 Structured data types

##### 6.2.2.2.1 Introduction

This clause defines the structured data types for RAI type "RAN performance analytics".

##### 6.2.2.2.2 Type FilterParameters

| Attribute name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | Applicability |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| analyticsSubsetFilters | array(AnalyticsAttributeName) | O | 1..N | Indicates the subset of attributes in the RAI contents to be reported. |  |
| binRangeList | array(BinRange) | O | 1..N | Indicates the list of bin ranges in ascending order used to generate the distribution for RAI contents. |  |

##### 6.2.2.2.3 Type RaiContents

| Attribute name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | Applicability |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| avgRlcThroughputDl | BitRate | O | 0..1 | The average downlink RLC throughput is defined as the DL Transmitted Data Volume (clause 7.10.1 of [6]) divided by the duration of the validity period, for a specific target entity.  (NOTE 1) |  |
| avgRlcThroughputUl | BitRate | O | 0..1 | The average uplink RLC throughput is defined as the UL Transmitted Data Volume (clause 7.10.2 of [6]) divided by the duration of the validity period, for a specific target entity.  (NOTE 1) |  |
| avgPacketDelayDl | PacketDelay | O | 0..1 | The average downlink packet delay is an overall downlink packet delay in RAN that takes into account the packet delay in the CU-CP (clause 5.1.3.3.1 of [5]), on the F1-U interface (clause 5.1.3.3.2 of [5]), in the DU (clause 5.1.3.3.3 of [5]) and  on the air interface (clause 5.1.1.1.1 of [5]), for a specific target entity according to the the conversion rule in clause 7.9.0 of [6]. |  |
| avgPacketDelayUl | PacketDelay | O | 0..1 | The average uplink packet delay is an overall uplink packet delay in RAN that takes into account the packet delay in the CU-CP (clause 5.1.1.1.5 of [5]),  in the DU (clause 5.1.1.1.4 of [5]) and  on the air interface (clause 5.1.1.1.3 of [5]), for a specific target entity according to the the conversion rule in clause 7.9.0 of [6]. (NOTE 2) |  |
| avgPacketLossRateDl | PacketLossRate | O | 0..1 | The average downlink packet loss rate is the overall downlink packet loss rate in RAN that takes into account the packet loss in the CU-CP (clause 5.1.3.2.1 of [5]), on the F1-U interface (clause 5.1.3.1.3 of [5]), in the DU (clause 5.1.3.2.2 of [5]) and on the air interface (clause 4.2.1.5.1 of [7]) during the validity period, for a specific target entity according to the the conversion rule in clause 7.9.0 of [6]. |  |
| avgPacketLossRateUl | PacketLossRate | O | 0..1 | The average uplink packet loss rate is defined as the UL PDCP SDU Loss Rate (clause 5.1.3.1.1 of [5]) during the validity period, for a specific target entity according to the the conversion rule in clause 7.9.0 of [6]. |  |
| distPacketDelayDl | Distribution | O | 0..1 | The distribution of DL packet delay between NG-RAN and UE, which is the delay incurred in NG-RAN (including the delay at gNB-CU-UP, on F1-U and on gNB-DU) and the delay over Uu interface (clause 5.1.1.1.6 of [5]), for a specific target entity according to the conversion rule in clause 7.9.0 of [6]. The unit for the bin ranges of the distribution is milliseconds. |  |
| distPacketDelayUl | Distribution | O | 0..1 | The distribution of UL packet delay between NG-RAN and UE, which includes the delay occurred in NG-RAN (including the delay at gNB-CU-UP, on F1-U and on gNB-DU) and the delay over Uu interface (excluding the D1 UL PDCP delay occurred in the UE) (clause 5.1.1.1.7.1 of [5]), for a specific target entity according to the conversion rule in clause 7.9.0 of [6]. The unit for the bin ranges of the distribution is milliseconds. |  |
| NOTE 1:	Different from the measurements in clause 5.1.1.3.1/5.1.1.3.3 of [5], the downlink/uplink average RLC throughput is calculated regardless of data bursts that require one or multiple slots. NOTE 2:	In the present document, the average uplink packet delay does not include the packet delay on the F1-U interface, which is not yet defined. |  |  |  |  |  |

##### 6.2.2.2.4 Type TargetEntity

| Attribute name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | Applicability |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| ueId | UeId | O | 1 | Indicates a specific UE. (NOTE 1) |  |
| snssai | Snssai | O | 1 | Indicate the S-NSSAI. |  |

In the present document, the allowed combinations of attributes are:

- -	ueId: the analytics are on a per-UE basis;
- -	ueId and snssai: the analytics are on a per-UE-per-slice basis.

##### 6.2.2.2.5 Type NotificationTriggerEvent

| Attribute name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | Applicability |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| n/a |  | (NOTE 1) |  |  |  |
| NOTE 1: 	In the present document, no notification trigger event has been defined for this RAI type. |  |  |  |  |  |

##### 6.2.2.2.6 Type BinRange

| Attribute name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | Applicability |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| startValue | integer | M | 1 | Indicates the start value of the bin, which corresponds to “Start Value" in clause 8.3.26 of [6]. |  |
| endValue | integer | M | 1 | Indicates the end value of the bin, which corresponds to “End Value" in clause 8.3.26 of [6]. |  |

#### 6.2.2.3 Simple data types and enumerations

##### 6.2.2.3.1 Introduction

This clause defines the simple data types and enumerations for RAI type "RAN performance analytics".

##### 6.2.2.3.2 Simple data types

| Type Name | Type Definition | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| n/a |  |  |

##### 6.2.2.3.3 Enumeration: AnalyticsAttributeName

| Enumeration value | Description | Applicability |
| --- | --- | --- |
| AVG_RLC_THROUGHPUT_DL | The "avgRlcThroughputDl" attribute for RAI type "RAN performance analytics". |  |
| AVG_RLC_THROUGHPUT_UL | The "avgRlcThroughputUl" attribute for RAI type "RAN performance analytics". |  |
| AVG_PACKET_DELAY_DL | The "avgPacketDelayDl" attribute for RAI type "RAN performance analytics". |  |
| AVG_PACKET_DELAY_UL | The "avgPacketDelayUl" attribute for RAI type "RAN performance analytics". |  |
| AVG_PACKET_LOSS_RATE_DL | The "avgPacketLossRateDl" attribute for RAI type "RAN performance analytics". |  |
| AVG_PACKET_LOSS_RATE_UL | The "avgPacketLossRateUl" attribute for RAI type "RAN performance analytics". |  |
| DIST_PACKET_DELAY_DL | The " distPacketDelayDl" attribute for RAI type "RAN performance analytics". |  |
| DIST_PACKET_DELAY_UL | The " distPacketDelayUl" attribute for RAI type "RAN performance analytics". |  |

## A.1 General

This Annex specifies the formal definition of the Y1 data types in this document. It consists of OpenAPI documents in YAML format that are based on the OpenAPI Specification [8].

## A.2 RAN performance analytics

openapi: 3.1.0

info:

title: Y1 RAI Type RAN performance analytics

description: |

Y1 data types for RAI Type "RAN performance analytics".

© 2023, O-RAN ALLIANCE

All rights reserved.

version: "1.1.0"

externalDocs:

description: O-RAN.WG3.Y1TD-v01.00

url: https://www.o-ran.org/specifications

paths: {}

components:

schemas:

FilterParameters:

type: object

description: Describes the filter(s) used for the RAI contents.

properties:

analyticsSubsetFilters:

type: array

description: Indicates the subset of attributes in the RAI contents to be reported.

items:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/AnalyticsAttributeName'

binRangeList:

type: array

description: Indicates the list of bin ranges in ascending order used to generate the distribution for RAI contents.

items:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/BinRange'

AnalyticsAttributeName:

type: string

enum:

- AVG_RLC_THROUGHPUT_DL

- AVG_RLC_THROUGHPUT_UL

- AVG_PACKET_DELAY_DL

- AVG_PACKET_DELAY_UL

- AVG_PACKET_LOSS_RATE_DL

- AVG_PACKET_LOSS_RATE_UL

- DIST_PACKET_DELAY_DL

- DIST_PACKET_DELAY_UL

description: Indicates an attribute in the RAI contents.

RaiContents:

type: object

description: Contains the actual RAI contents.

properties:

avgRlcThroughputDl:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/BitRate'

description: Indicates the average downlink RLC throughput as described in clause 6.2.2.2.3 of O-RAN.WG3.Y1TD.

avgRlcThroughputUl:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/BitRate'

description: Indicates the average uplink RLC throughput as described in clause 6.2.2.2.3 of O-RAN.WG3.Y1TD.

avgPacketDelayDl:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/PacketDelay'

description: Indicates the averagedownlink packet delay as described in clause 6.2.2.2.3 of O-RAN.WG3.Y1TD.

avgPacketDelayUl:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/PacketDelay'

description: Indicates the averageuplink packet delay as described in clause 6.2.2.2.3 of O-RAN.WG3.Y1TD.

avgPacketLossRateDl:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/PacketLossRate'

description: Indicates the averagedownlink packet loss rate in the air interface as described in clause 6.2.2.2.3 of O-RAN.WG3.Y1TD.

avgPacketLossRateUl:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/PacketLossRate'

description: Indicates the average uplink packet loss rate as described in clause 6.2.2.2.3 of O-RAN.WG3.Y1TD.

distPacketDelayDl:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/Distribution'

description: Indicates the distribution of downlink packet delay as described in clause 6.2.2.2.3 of O-RAN.WG3.Y1TD.

distPacketDelayUl:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/Distribution'

description: Indicates the distribution of uplink packet delay as described in clause 6.2.2.2.3 of O-RAN.WG3.Y1TD.

NotificationTriggerEvent:

type: object

description: Contains the event that triggers RAI notifications.

BitRate:

type: string

pattern: '^\d+(\.\d+)? (bps|Kbps|Mbps|Gbps|Tbps)$'

description: >

String representing a bit rate prefixes follow the standard symbols from The International

System of Units, and represent x1000 multipliers, with the exception that prefix "K" is

used to represent the standard symbol "k".

PacketDelay:

type: integer

minimum: 1

description: Unsigned integer indicating packet delay expressed in milliseconds.

PacketLossRate:

type: integer

minimum: 0

maximum: 1000

description: Unsigned integer indicating packet loss rate expressed in tenth of percent.

TargetEntity:

type: object

description: Contains information used to identify a target entity with which the RAI is associated.

properties:

ueId:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/UeId'

snssai:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/Snssai'

UeId:

type: object

description: Indicates a specific UE.

properties:

amfUeNgapId:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/AmfUeNgapId'

guami:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/Guami'

AmfUeNgapId:

type: integer

description: The AMF UE NGAP ID.

minimum: 0

maximum: 1099511627775

Guami:

type: object

properties:

plmnId:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/PlmnIdNid'

amfId:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/AmfId'

required:

- plmnId

- amfId

description: Globally Unique AMF Identifier constructed out of PLMN, Network and AMF identity.

PlmnIdNid:

type: object

properties:

mcc:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/Mcc'

mnc:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/Mnc'

nid:

$ref: '#/components/schemas/Nid'

required:

- mcc

- mnc

description: Contains the serving core network operator PLMN ID and, for an SNPN, the NID that together with the PLMN ID identifies the SNPN.

Mcc:

type: string

pattern: '^\d{3}$'

description: Mobile Country Code part of the PLMN, comprising 3 digits, as defined in clause 9.3.3.5 of 3GPP TS 38.413.

Mnc:

type: string

pattern: '^\d{2,3}$'

description: Mobile Network Code part of the PLMN, comprising 2 or 3 digits, as defined in clause 9.3.3.5 of 3GPP TS 38.413.

Nid:

type: string

pattern: '^[A-Fa-f0-9]{11}$'

description: This represents the Network Identifier, which together with a PLMN ID is used to identify an SNPN (see 3GPP TS 23.003 and 3GPP TS 23.501 clause 5.30.2.1).

AmfId:

type: string

pattern: '^[A-Fa-f0-9]{6}$'

description: >

String identifying the AMF ID composed of AMF Region ID (8 bits), AMF Set ID (10 bits)

and AMF Pointer (6 bits) as specified in clause 2.10.1 of 3GPP TS 23.003. It is encoded

as a string of 6 hexadecimal characters (i.e., 24 bits).

Snssai:

type: object

description: When Snssai needs to be converted to string (e.g. when used in maps as key), the string shall be composed of one to three digits "sst" optionally followed by "-" and 6 hexadecimal digits "sd".

properties:

sst:

type: integer

minimum: 0

maximum: 255

description: >

Unsigned integer, within the range 0 to 255, representing the Slice/Service Type.

It indicates the expected Network Slice behaviour in terms of features and services.

Values 0 to 127 correspond to the standardized SST range. Values 128 to 255 correspond

to the Operator-specific range. See clause 28.4.2 of 3GPP TS 23.003.

Standardized values are defined in clause 5.15.2.2 of 3GPP TS 23.501.

sd:

type: string

pattern: '^[A-Fa-f0-9]{6}$'

description: >

3-octet string, representing the Slice Differentiator, in hexadecimal representation.

Each character in the string shall take a value of "0" to "9", "a" to "f" or "A" to "F"

and shall represent 4 bits. The most significant character representing the 4 most

significant bits of the SD shall appear first in the string, and the character

representing the 4 least significant bit of the SD shall appear last in the string.

This is an optional parameter that complements the Slice/Service type(s) to allow

to differentiate amongst multiple Network Slices of the same Slice/Service type.

This IE shall be absent if no SD value is associated with the SST.

required:

- sst

Distribution:

type: array

description: Indicates the frequency distribution. The array corresponds to the bins of the distribution in ascending order, with each element containing the frequency for each bin.

items:

type: integer

BinRange:

type: object

description: Indicates the value range of a bin of the distribution.

properties:

startValue:

type: integer

description: Indicates the start value of the bin, which corresponds to “Start Value" defined in clause 8.3.26 of E2SM KPM.

endValue:

type: integer

description: Indicates the end value of the bin, which corresponds to “End Value" defined in clause 8.3.26 of E2SM KPM.


---

<!-- SOURCE: ORAN-WG3.E2SM-NI-v01.00.md -->
---
title: "Technical Specification"
---

### 2020.01.29 0.1.00.00 Alistair URIE, Corrected based on remarks during electronic vote.
Paul STEPHENS (Nokia) "© 2019. 3GPP™ TSs and TRs are the property of ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI, TTA and TTC who jointly own the copyright in them. They are subject to further modifications and are therefore provided to you "as is" for information purposes only. Further use is strictly prohibited." "© 2020. 3GPP™ TSs and TRs are the property of ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI, TTA and TTC who jointly own the copyright in them. They are subject to further modifications and are therefore provided to you "as is" for information purposes only. Further use is strictly prohibited." ORAN-WG3.E2SM-NI-v01.00.00 Contents ORAN-WG3.E2SM-NI-v01.00.00 ORAN-WG3.E2SM-NI-v01.00.00

# 7 Release x.y.z
where: x the first digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc. (the initial approved document will have x=01). y the second digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been incorporated in the document. z the third digit included only in working versions of the document indicating incremental changes during the editing process. The present document specifies the E2 Service Model (E2SM) “Network Interface” (NI) for the RAN function handling the Network Interfaces in an E2 Node. Further information on this RAN function is described in Annex A.

# 26 Principles (E2GAP)
[3] ORAN WG3, O-RAN Working Group 3, Near-Real-time RAN Intelligent Controller, E2 Application Protocol

# 28 (E2AP).
[4] 3GPP TR 25.921: "Guidelines and principles for protocol description and error handling". [5] ITU-T Recommendation X.680 (2002-07): "Information technology – Abstract Syntax Notation One (ASN.1):

# 31 Specification of basic notation".
[6] ITU-T Recommendation X.681 (2002-07): "Information technology – Abstract Syntax Notation One (ASN.1):

# 33 Information object specification".
[7] ITU-T Recommendation X.691 (2002-07): "Information technology - ASN.1 encoding rules - Specification of

# 35 Packed Encoding Rules (PER) "
[8] reserved [9] reserved [10] 3GPP 36.413, Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); S1 Application Protocol

# 39 (S1AP)
[11] 3GPP 36.423, Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); X2 application protocol

# 41 (X2AP)
ORAN-WG3.E2SM-NI-v01.00.00 [12] 3GPP 38.413, NG-RAN; NG Application Protocol (NGAP) [13] 3GPP 38.423, NG-RAN; Xn application protocol (XnAP) [14] F1 interface, NG-RAN; F1 application protocol (F1AP), 3GPP 38.473 [15] E1 interface, NG-RAN; E1 Application Protocol (E1AP), 3GPP 38.463

# 3 Definitions and Abbreviations

## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions apply.

# 8 E2 Node: as defined in E2GAP [2].

# 9 RAN Function: as defined in E2GAP [2]
E2 Service Model: The description of the Services exposed by a specific RAN function within an E2 node over the E2 interface towards the Near-RT RIC. Network Interface: Network interface used to carry a network protocol between network nodes

## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply.

# 15 O-CU O-RAN Central Unit

# 16 O-CU-CP O-RAN Central Unit – Control Plane

# 17 O-CU-UP O-RAN Central Unit – User Plane

# 18 O-DU O-RAN Distributed Unit

# 19 Near-RT RIC Near-real-time RAN Intelligent Controller
ORAN-WG3.E2SM-NI-v01.00.00

# 4 General

## 4.1 Procedure Specification Principles
The principle for specifying the procedure logic is to specify the functional behaviour of the terminating node exactly and completely. Any rule that specifies the behaviour of the originating node shall be possible to be verified with information that is visible within the system. The following specification principles have been applied for the procedure text in clause 8:

# 7 - The procedure text discriminates between:

# 8 1) Functionality which "shall" be executed.
The procedure text indicates that the receiving node "shall" perform a certain function Y under a certain condition. If the receiving node supports procedure X but cannot perform functionality Y requested in the REQUEST message of a Class 1 EP, the receiving node shall respond with the message used to report unsuccessful outcome for this procedure, containing an appropriate cause value.

# 13 2) Functionality which "shall, if supported" be executed.
The procedure text indicates that the receiving node "shall, if supported," perform a certain function Y under a certain condition. If the receiving node supports procedure X, but does not support functionality Y, the receiving node shall proceed with the execution of the EP, possibly informing the requesting node about the not supported functionality.
- Any required inclusion of an optional IE in a response message is explicitly indicated in the procedure text. If the
procedure text does not explicitly indicate that an optional IE shall be included in a response message, the optional IE shall not be included. For requirements on including Criticality Diagnostics IE, see clause 10.

## 4.2 Forwards and Backwards Compatibility
The forwards and backwards compatibility of the protocol is assured by a mechanism where all current and future messages, and IEs or groups of related IEs, include ID and criticality fields that are coded in a standard format that will not be changed in the future. These parts can always be decoded regardless of the standard version.

## 4.3 Specification Notations
For the purposes of the present document, the following notations apply: Service when referring to a Service in the specification the SERVICE NAME is written with upper case characters and in bold followed by the word "service", e.g. REPORT service. Procedure When referring to an elementary procedure in the specification the Procedure Name is written with the first letters in each word in upper case characters followed by the word "procedure", e.g.

# 31 Handover Preparation procedure.
Message When referring to a message in the specification the MESSAGE NAME is written with all letters in upper case characters followed by the word "message", e.g. HANDOVER REQUEST message. IE When referring to an information element (IE) in the specification the Information Element Name is written with the first letters in each word in upper case characters and all letters in Italic font followed by the abbreviation "IE", e.g. E-RAB ID IE. Value of an IE When referring to the value of an information element (IE) in the specification the "Value" is written as it is specified in the specification enclosed by quotation marks, e.g. "Value". ORAN-WG3.E2SM-NI-v01.00.00

## 4.3 Identifiers
For the purposes of the present document, the following identifiers are defined: Style Type The identifier used to nominate a specific approach or Style used to exposing a given RIC Service (REPORT, INSERT, CONTROL and POLICY). The same E2SM may support more than one

# 5 Style for each RIC Service.
Format Type The identifier used to nominate a specific formatting approach used to encode one of the E2AP IEs defined in this E2SM. The same E2SM may support more than one encoding Formats for each E2AP IE and each E2AP IE message encoding Format may be used by one or more RIC Service

# 9 Styles.
ORAN-WG3.E2SM-NI-v01.00.00

# 5 E2SM services
As defined in E2 General Aspects and Principles [2], a given RAN Function offers a set of services to be exposed over the E2 (REPORT, INSERT, CONTROL and/or POLICY) using E2AP [3] defined procedures. Each of the E2AP Procedures listed in table 5-1 contains specific E2 Node RAN Function dependent Information Elements (IEs). Table 5-1: Relationship RAN Function specific E2AP Information elements and E2AP Procedures RAN Function specific E2AP E2AP Information Element Related E2AP Procedures Information Elements reference RIC Event Trigger Definition IE E2AP [3] section 9.2.9 RIC Subscription RIC Action Definition IE E2AP [3] section 9.2.12 RIC Subscription RIC Indication Header IE E2AP [3] section 9.2.17 RIC Indication RIC Indication Message IE E2AP [3] section 9.2.16 RIC Indication RIC Call Process ID IE E2AP [3] section 9.2.18 RIC Indication RIC Control RIC Control Header IE E2AP [3] section 9.2.20 RIC Control RIC Control Message IE E2AP [3] section 9.2.19 RIC Control RIC Control Outcome IE E2AP [3] section 9.2.25 RIC Control RAN Function Definition IE E2AP [3] section 9.2.23 E2 Setup RIC Service Update All of these RAN Function specific E2AP IEs are defined in E2AP [3] as “OCTET STRING”. The purpose of this specification is to define the contents of these fields for the specific RAN function “NI” (Network

# 9 Interface).
ORAN-WG3.E2SM-NI-v01.00.00

# 6 RAN Function Service Model Description

## 6.1 RAN Function Overview
For the purposed of this E2 Service Model, E2SM-NI, the E2 Node terminating the E2 Interface is assumed to host the RAN Function NI “Network Interface” which performs the following functionalities:

# 5 - Exposure of Network Interfaces
- Modification of both incoming and outgoing network interface message contents
- Execution of policies that may result in change of network behavior
This E2SM specification provides a set of RAN Function exposure services described in clause 6.2 and has been prepared with the assumption that the same E2SM may be used to describe either a single RAN Function handling all Network Interfaces or more than one RAN function with each one handling a subset of the Network Interfaces terminated on the E2 Node.

## 6.2 RAN Function exposure services

# 13 6.2.1 REPORT service
The “Network Interface” RAN Function provides selective support of the following REPORT services:
- Copy of Complete message with header providing network interface type, identifier and direction with optional
network interface timestamp
- Copy of Partial message selected by target message protocol IE identifier with with header providing network
interface type, identifier, direction and message type with optional network interface timestamp

# 19 These services may be initiated according to:
- Target network interface type, identifier, direction and message type along with the presence of a sequence of
one or more message protocol IE identifiers with optional message protocol IE contents selection rules.

# 22 6.2.2 INSERT service
The “Network Interface” RAN Function provides selective support of the following INSERT services:
- Forwarding of Complete message with header providing network interface type, identifier and direction with
optional network interface timestamp

# 26 This service may be initiated according to:
- Target network interface type, identifier and direction, message type and presence of a sequence of one or more
message protocol IE identifiers with optional message protocol IE contents selection rules.

# 29 6.2.3 CONTROL service
The “Network Interface” RAN Function provides selective support of the following CONTROL services:
- Injection of Complete message with header providing target network interface type, identifier and direction and
optional RIC Control Message Priority

# 33 6.2.4 POLICY service
The “Network Interface” RAN Function provides selective support of the following POLICY services:
- Handling of Message Admission process according to a list of parameters to be applied to different RAN UE
groups ORAN-WG3.E2SM-NI-v01.00.00

# 7 RAN Function Description

## 7.1 Description
The E2AP [3] procedures E2 Setup and RIC Service Update are used to transport the RAN Function Description. For the specific RAN Function, the RAN Function Description IE shall report the following information:
- RAN Function name along with associated information on E2SM definition
- Event trigger styles list along with the corresponding encoding type for each associated E2AP IE.
- RIC REPORT Service styles list along with the corresponding encoding type for each associated E2AP IE.
- RIC INSERT Service styles list along with the corresponding encoding type for each associated E2AP IE.
- RIC CONTROL Service styles list along with the corresponding encoding type for each associated E2AP IE.
- RIC POLICY Service styles list along with the corresponding encoding type for each associated E2AP IE.

## 7.2 RAN Function name

# 15 RAN Function Short Name “ORAN-E2SM-NI”

# 16 RAN Function name description “Network Interface”
RAN Function Instance, required when and if E2 Node exposes more than one instance of a RAN Function based on this E2SM.

## 7.3 Event trigger definition styles

# 20 7.3.1 RIC Event trigger definition IE style list
RIC Style Name Supported RIC Service Style Style Description Style Report Insert Policy Type Interface Message 1, 2 1 1 RIC Event trigger definition IE based on Event arrival of defined message

### 7.3.2 RIC Event trigger definition IE style 1: Interface Message Event
This RIC Event Trigger Definition IE style is used to detect a specific interface message event in E2 Node RAN Function based on specified target Network Interface Type, Network Interface Identifier, Network Interface Direction, Network Interface Message Type, Message Protocol IE Identifier, Message Protocol IE Test Condition and Message

# 26 Protocol IE Test Value.
This RIC Event Trigger Definition IE style uses RIC Event Trigger Definition IE Format 1 (8.2.1.1.1) ORAN-WG3.E2SM-NI-v01.00.00

## 7.4 Supported RIC REPORT Service styles

# 4 7.4.2 REPORT Service Style 1: Complete message

# 5 7.4.2.1 REPORT Service Style description
This REPORT Service style provides a copy of a complete network interface message with the network interface specific encoded message carried as a transparent container with an associated header providing information on the target Network Interface Type, Network Interface Identifier, Network Interface Direction and optional Network Interface Timestamp. The addition of optional information time stamp in the Indication Header is controlled using the associated RIC Action Parameter

# 11 7.4.2.2 REPORT Service RIC Action Definition IE contents
This REPORT Service style uses the following RAN parameters with RIC Action Definition IE Format 1 (8.2.1.1.1) where AddTimestamp is used to request the inclusion of optional Network Interface Timestamp information in RIC

# 14 Indication header IE:
RAN RAN Parameter RAN Parameter description Parameter Name Parameter ID Type AddTimestamp BOOLEAN TRUE=Use optional Network Interface Timestamp in RIC Indication Header

# 16 7.4.2.3 REPORT Service RIC Indication header IE contents
REPORT Service RIC Indication Header IE contains the Network Interface Type, Network Interface Identifier,

# 18 Network Interface Direction and optional Network Interface Timestamp.
This REPORT Service style uses RIC Indication header IE Format 1 (8.2.1.3.1)

# 20 7.4.2.4 REPORT Service RIC Indication message IE contents
REPORT Service RIC Indication message IE contains contains a transparent container used to carry the complete message with contents defined by the specific network interface specification. This REPORT Service style uses RIC Indication message IE Format 1 (8.2.1.4.1)

# 24 7.4.3 REPORT Service Style 2: Partial message

# 25 7.4.3.1 REPORT Service Style description
This REPORT Service style provides a copy of a specific information element extracted from a network interface message with the network interface specific encoded message carried as a transparent container associated with an indication header providing information on the target Network Interface Type, Network Interface Identifier, Network Interface Direction, Network Interface Message Type and optional Network Interface Timestamp. The addition of optional Network Interface Timestamp in the Indication Header and the rules for extracting the part of the message are controlled using the associated RIC Action Parameter ORAN-WG3.E2SM-NI-v01.00.00

# 6 7.4.3.3 REPORT Service RIC Indication header IE contents
REPORT Service RIC Indication Header IE contains the Network Interface Type, Network Interface Identifier,

# 8 Network Interface Direction and optional Network Interface Timestamp.
This REPORT Service style uses RIC Indication header IE Format 1 (8.2.1.3.1)

# 10 7.4.3.4 REPORT Service RIC Indication message IE contents
REPORT Service RIC Indication message IE contains a transparent container used to carry the extracted part of the message with contents defined by the specific network interface specification. This REPORT Service style uses RIC Indication message IE Format 1 (8.2.1.4.1)

## 7.5 Supported RIC INSERT Service styles

# 15 7.5.1 RIC INSERT Service style list
RIC Style Type Style Name Style Description Complete message Used to forward a complete message from E2 Node RAN function

# 17 7.5.2 INSERT Service Style 1: Complete message

# 18 7.5.2.1 INSERT Service Style description
This INSERT Service style provides the forwarding of a complete network interface message with the network interface specific encoded message carried as a transparent container with an associated header providing information on the target Network Interface Type, Network Interface Identifier, Network Interface Direction and optional Network Interface Timestamp. The addition of optional information timestamp in the Indication Header is controlled using the associated RIC Action Parameter

# 24 7.5.2.2 INSERT Service RIC Action Definition IE contents
RAN RAN RAN Parameter description Parameter Parameter Parameter ID Name Type AddTimestamp BOOLEAN TRUE=Use optional Timestamp IE in RIC Indication Header ORAN-WG3.E2SM-NI-v01.00.00

# 5 7.5.2.4 INSERT Service RIC Indication message IE contents
INSERT Service RIC Indication message IE contains a transparent container used to carry the complete message with contents defined by the specific network interface specification. This INSERT Service style uses RIC Indication message IE Format 1 (8.2.1.4.1)

#### 7.5.2.5 INSERT Service RIC Call Process ID IE contents
RIC Call Process ID contains identifier used by the RAN Function to match the outgoing INSERT Service message with a subsequent incoming CONTROL Service message. This INSERT Service style uses RIC Call Process ID type 1 (8.2.1.5.1) to carry a local RAN Function assigned call process instance sequence number that, under normal traffic conditions, shall be unique to the given RAN function instance for a period of 1 hour.

## 7.6 Supported RIC CONTROL Service styles

# 16 7.6.1 RIC CONTROL Service style list
RIC Style Type Style Name Style Description Complete message Used to inject a complete message into E2 Node RAN Function

# 18 7.6.2 CONTROL Service Style 1: Complete message

# 19 7.6.2.1 CONTROL Service Style description
This CONTROL Service style provides the injection of a complete message carried as a transparent container with an associated header providing the target Network Interface Type, Network Interface Identifier and Network Interface Direction along with an option RIC Control Message Priority. The RIC Control Message Priority shall be used by the RAN Function to order the queuing of incoming Control messages and E2 Node originated messages on the same network interface. The following rules shall apply:
- Control messages with higher priority shall be handled prior to Control messages with lower priority
- Positive RIC Control Message Priority implies a priority over E2 Node originated messages
- Negative priority implies that E2 Node originated messages shall be sent prior to incoming Control messages.
- Default Control priority = 0 implies Control messages shall be treated with the same priority as E2 Node
originated messages

# 30 7.6.2.2 CONTROL Service RIC Control Header IE contents
RIC Control Header contains the following information Network Interface Type, Network Interface Identifier and Network Interface Direction and the optional RIC Control Message Priority. This CONTROL style uses RIC Control

# 33 Header Format 1 (8.2.1.6.1)
ORAN-WG3.E2SM-NI-v01.00.00

#### 7.6.2.4 CONTROL Service RIC Call Process ID IE contents
CONTROL Service RIC Call Process ID contains identifier used by the Near-RT RIC to allow the RAN Function to match the outgoing INSERT Service message with a subsequent incoming CONTROL Service message. This CONTROL Service style uses RIC Call Process ID IE Format 1 (8.2.1.5.1)

# 9 7.6.2.5 CONTROL Service RIC Control Outcome IE contents
RIC Control Outcome IE contains a transparent container used to carry the outcome of executing the RIC Control Request. In particular this message reports on the time that the RIC Control Request was received by the RAN Function and the time that the network interface message contained in the RIC Control Message IE was transmitted by the RAN function over the specified network interface. The difference between these two timestamps reflects both internal processes delays and the impact of the requested RIC Control Message Priority with respect to E2 Node originated network interface messages This CONTROL style uses RIC Control Outcome Format 1 (8.2.1.8.1) RAN RAN Parameter RAN Parameter Type Parameter description Parameter Name ID ReceivedTimestamp NetworkInterfaceTimestamp Time RIC Control Request received by RAN Function

## 7.7 Supported RIC POLICY Service styles

# 20 7.7.1 RIC POLICY Service style list
RIC Style Type Style Name Style Description Message Admission Used to control the execution of the Message Admission process for an incoming message into E2 Node RAN Function

# 23 7.7.2 POLICY Service style 1: Message admission

# 24 7.7.2.1 POLICY Service style description
This POLICY Service style is used to provide an Imperative Policy to control execution of a Message Admission process for an incoming message of type “REQUEST” received by the specific E2 Node RAN Function. The associated Action Definition IE provides the rules to be executed as an Imperative E2 Policy with different parameters assigned to each RAN UE Group. A positive outcome of the Imperative policy results in the incoming message being forwarded to the E2 Node without modification. ORAN-WG3.E2SM-NI-v01.00.00 A negative outcome of the Imperative policy results in the creation of an appropriate request rejection message as defined in Annex A.2.1

# 3 7.7.2.2 POLICY Service RIC Action Definition IE contents
This POLICY Service style uses RIC Action Definition IE Format 2 (8.2.1.1.2) where:
- RAN UE group is described in terms of a list of test conditions using RAN Parameters. A given UE is to be
considered to be assigned to a specific RAN UE Group when all test conditions are met. RAN UE Group ID = 0 is used for the default case and so applies to any UE that is not assigned to any other RAN UE Group
- Imperative E2 Policy is encoded in terms of a list of specific RAN Parameters and shall be applied to any UE
within a given RAN UE Group. The default UE policy corresponding to the default behavior of the RAN function without an active Imperative E2 Policy is used for UE assigned to RAN UE Group ID = 0

## 7.8 Supported RIC Service Styles and E2SM IE Formats
Table 7.8-1 and 7.8-2 provide a summary of the E2SM IE Formats defined to support the set of RIC Event Triggers and

# 13 RIC Service Styles defined in this E2SM specification.
Table 7.8-1: Summary of the E2SM IE encoding Formats defined to support the set of RIC Event

# 16 Trigger styles
RIC Event Trigger Service Definition Format and Style Event Trigger Style 1 1 Table 7.8-1: Summary of the E2SM IE encoding Formats defined to support the set of RIC Service

# 19 Styles
RIC Action Indication Indication Call Control Control Service Definition header message Process ID header message and Style Format Format Format Format Format Format REPORT Style 1 1 1 1 Style 2 1 1 1 INSERT Style 1 1 1 1 1 CONTROL Style 1 1 1 1 POLICY Style 1 2 ORAN-WG3.E2SM-NI-v01.00.00

# 8 Elements for E2SM Service Model

## 8.1 General
Sub clause 8.2 describes the structure of the information elements as required for the E2SM-NI Service Model in tabular format. Sub clause 8.3 presents the individual information elements. Sub clause 8.4 provides the corresponding

# 5 ASN.1 definition of each information element.
The following attributes are used for the tabular description of the messages and information elements:
> NOTE: The messages have been defined in accordance to the guidelines specified in 3GPP TR 25.921 [4].

## 8.2 Message Functional Definition and Content

# 9 8.2.1 Messages for RIC Functional procedures

# 10 8.2.1.1 RIC Event Trigger Definition IE
This information element is part of the RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST message sent by the Near-RT RIC to a E2 Node and is required for event triggers used to initiate REPORT, INSERT and POLICY actions.

# 13 Direction: Near-RT RIC → E2 Node.
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics reference description CHOICE Format >E2SM-NI Event Trigger M 8.2.1.1.1 Definition Format 1

# 15 8.2.1.1.1 E2SM-NI Event Trigger Definition Format 1
This RIC Event Trigger Definition style allows to select a specific target using:
- Network Interface Type IE used to select a specific interface type,
- Network Interface Identifier used to select a specific interface instance,
- Network Interface Direction used to select a specific interface direction (incoming or outgoing),
- Network Interface Message Type used to select a specific message on the interface,
- Message Protocol IE Identifier used to select a specific protocol element in the selected message,
- Message Protocol IE Test Condition and Message Protocol IE Test Value are used to test if the selected protocol
element meets a specific test condition where the trigger condition applies when and only if all of the test conditions are TRUE (i.e. logical ADD of each test condition). ORAN-WG3.E2SM-NI-v01.00.00 IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Network Interface Type M 8.3.21 Network Interface Identifier O 8.3.22 “Any” instance to be used if absent Network Interface Direction O 8.3.23 “Both” directions to be used if absent Network Interface Message O 8.3.25 “Any” message type to Type be used if absent Sequence of Message 0.. <maxof “Any” message if zero Protocol Tests Interface message protocol tests Protocol in list Test> >Message Protocol IE ID M 8.3.26 Protocol IE ID presence in message if test condition is absent >Message Protocol IE O 8.3.27 Test condition >Message Protocol IE O 8.3.28 Shall be included if test Value condition is present Range bound Explanation maxof Interface Protocol Test Maximum no. of Network Interface Protocol Test in event trigger definition supported by RAN Function. Value is <15>.

# 3 8.2.1.2 RIC Action Definition IE
This information element is part of the RIC SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST message sent by the Near-RT RIC to a E2 Node and is required for POLICY actions and optional for REPORT and INSERT actions. This information element provides addition information for the nominated Action (Report, Insert, Policy)

# 7 Direction: Near-RT RIC → E2 Node.
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics reference description RIC Style Type M 8.3.3 CHOICE Format >E2SM-NI Action Definition M 8.2.1.2.1 Format 1 > E2SM-NI Action Definition M 8.2.1.2.2 Format 2

# 9 8.2.1.2.1 E2SM-NI Action Definition Format 1
The E2SM-NI Action Definition IE Format 1 supports a sequence of RAN Parameters sent as ID/Value pairs. The meaning of the ID/Value pairs is defined in section 7. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Sequence of RAN 0.. Parameters <maxofActio nParameters > >RAN Parameter ID M 8.3.7 >RAN Parameter Value M 8.3.9 Range bound Explanation maxofActionparameters Maximum no. of RAN Parameters. Value is <255> ORAN-WG3.E2SM-NI-v01.00.00

# 7 8.2.1.3 RIC Indication Header IE
This information element is part of the RIC INDICATION message sent by the E2 Node to a Near-RT RIC node and is required for REPORT and INSERT actions.

# 10 Direction: E2 Node → Near-RT RIC.
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics reference description CHOICE Format >E2SM-NI Indication M 8.2.1.3.1 Header Format 1

# 12 8.2.1.3.1 E2SM-NI Indication Header Format 1
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Network Interface Type M 8.3.21 Network Interface Identifier M 8.3.22 Network Interface Direction M 8.3.23 Network Interface Timestamp O 8.3.24

# 14 8.2.1.4 RIC Indication Message IE
This information element is part of the RIC INDICATION message sent by the E2 Node to a Near-RT RIC node and is required for REPORT and INSERT actions.

# 17 Direction: E2 Node → Near-RT RIC.
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics reference description CHOICE Format >E2SM-NI Indication M 8.2.1.4.1 Message Format 1 ORAN-WG3.E2SM-NI-v01.00.00

# 3 RIC Indication Header IE.
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Network Interface Message M 8.3.29

# 5 8.2.1.5 RIC Call Process ID IE
This information element is part of the RIC INDICATION message sent by the E2 Node to a Near-RT RIC node and is required for INSERT action. The same information element is used in RIC Control procedure

# 8 Direction: E2 Node → Near-RT RIC.
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics reference description CHOICE Format >E2SM-NI Call Process ID M 8.2.1.5.1 Format 1 >E2SM-NI Call Process ID M 8.2.1.5.2 Format 2

# 10 8.2.1.5.1 E2SM-NI Call Process ID Format 1
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description RIC Call process ID M 8.3.11.1 approach 1

# 12 8.2.1.5.2 E2SM-NI Call Process ID Format 2
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description RIC Call process ID M 8.3.11.2 approach 2

# 14 8.2.1.6 RIC Control Header IE
This information element is part of the RIC CONTROL message sent by the Near-RT RIC to a E2 Node and is required for RIC Control Procedure.

# 17 Direction: Near-RT RIC → E2 Node.
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics reference description CHOICE Format >E2SM-NI Control Header M 8.2.1.6.1 Format 1 ORAN-WG3.E2SM-NI-v01.00.00

# 3 8.2.1.7 RIC Control Message IE
This information element is part of the RIC CONTROL message sent by the Near-RT RIC to a E2 Node and is required for RIC Control Procedure.

# 6 Direction: Near-RT RIC → E2 Node.
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics reference description CHOICE Format >E2SM-NI Control Message M 8.2.1.7.1 Format 1

# 8 8.2.1.7.1 E2SM-NI Control Message Format 1
Content is encoded as per definition of network interface type indicated in the Network Interface Type IE in associated

# 10 RIC Control Header IE.
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Network Interface Message M 8.3.29

# 12 8.2.1.8 RIC Control Outcome IE
This information element is part of the RIC CONTROL ACKOWLEDGEMENT and RIC CONTROL FAILURE messages and is sent by the E2 Node to the Near-RT RIC and is required for RIC Control Procedure.

# 15 Direction: Near-RT RIC → E2 Node.
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics reference description CHOICE Format >E2SM-NI Control Outcome M 8.2.1.8.1 Format 1

# 17 8.2.1.8.1 E2SM-NI Control Outcome Format 1
The E2SM-NI Control Outcome IE Format 1 supports a sequence of RAN Parameters sent as ID/Value pairs. The meaning of the ID/Value pairs is defined in section 7. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Sequence of RAN 0.. Parameters <maxofRAN parameters> >RAN Parameter ID M 8.3.7 >RAN Parameter Value M 8.3.9 ORAN-WG3.E2SM-NI-v01.00.00 Range bound Explanation maxofRANparameters Maximum no. of RAN Parameters. Value is <255>

# 3 8.2.2.1 RAN Function Definition IE
This information element is part of the E2 SETUP REQUEST and RIC SERVICE UPDATE message sent by the RAN to a NEAR-RT RIC node and is used to provide all required information for the Near-RT RIC to determine how a given E2 Node has been configured to support a given RAN Function specific E2SM.

# 7 Direction: E2 Node → Near-RT RIC.
ORAN-WG3.E2SM-NI-v01.00.00 IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and Semantics reference description RAN Function Name M 8.3.2 Sequence of Network Interface 1.. <maxofNItypes> Types >Network Interface Type M 8.3.21 >Sequence of Event trigger 0.. <maxofRICstyles> styles >>RIC Event Trigger M 8.3.3 ID of Event trigger Style Type style >>RIC Event Trigger M 8.3.4 Name of Event Style Name trigger style >>RIC Event Trigger M 8.3.5 Event trigger format Format Type used by Event trigger style >Sequence of Report styles 0.. <maxofRICstyles> >>RIC Report Style M 8.3.3 ID of Report style Type >>RIC Report Style M 8.3.4 Name of Report Name style >>RIC Report Action M 8.3.5 Action definition Format Type format used by Report style >>Sequence of RAN 0.. RAN parameters parameters for Action <maxofRANparameters> used by Report style >>>RAN Parameter M 8.3.7 ID >>>RAN Parameter M 8.3.10 Name >>>RAN Parameter M 8.3.6 Type >>RIC Indication M 8.3.5 Indication header Header Format Type format used by Report style >>RIC Indication M 8.3.5 Indication message Message Format Type format used by Report style >Sequence of Insert styles 0.. <maxofRICstyles> >>RIC Insert Style Type M 8.3.3 ID of Insert style >>RIC Insert Style M 8.3.4 Name of Insert style Name >>RIC Insert Action M 8.3.5 Action definition Format Type format used by Insert style >>Sequence of RAN 0.. RAN parameters parameters for Action <maxofRANparameters> used by Insert style >>>RAN Parameter M 8.3.7 ID >>>RAN Parameter M 8.3.10 Name >>>RAN Parameter M 8.3.6 Type >>RIC Indication M 8.3.5 Indication header Header Format Type format used by Insert style >>RIC Indication M 8.3.5 Indication message Message Format Type format used by Insert style >>RIC Call Process ID M 8.3.5 Call Processs ID Format Type format used by Insert style >Sequence of Control 0.. <maxofRICstyles> styles >>RIC Control Style M 8.3.3 ID of Control style Type ORAN-WG3.E2SM-NI-v01.00.00 >>RIC Control Style M 8.3.4 Name of Control Name style >>RIC Control Header M 8.3.5 Control header Format Type format used by control style >>RIC Control Message M 8.3.5 Control message Format Type format used by control style >>RIC Call Process ID M 8.3.5 Call Processs ID Format Type format used by control style >>RIC Control Outcome M 8.3.5 Call Processs ID Format Type format used by control style >>Sequence of RAN 0.. RAN parameters parameters for Control <maxofRANparameters> used by Control Outcome Outcome style >>>RAN Parameter M 8.3.7 ID >>>RAN Parameter M 8.3.10 Name >>>RAN Parameter M 8.3.6 Type >Sequence of Policy styles 0.. <maxofRICstyles> >>RIC Policy Style Type M 8.3.3 >>RIC Policy Style M 8.3.4 Name >>RIC Policy Action M 8.3.5 Action definition Format Type format used by Policy style >>Sequence of RAN 0.. RAN parameters parameters for Action <maxofRANparameters> used by Policy style >>>RAN Parameter M 8.3.7 ID >>>RAN Parameter M 8.3.10 Name >>>RAN Parameter M 8.3.6 Type Range bound Explanation maxofNItypes Maximum no. of Network Interface Types supported by RAN Function <63> maxofRICstyles Maximum no. of Style of Report, Insert, Control or Policy actions supported by RAN Function. Value is <63>. maxofRANparameters Maximum no. of RAN Parameters for given style. Value is <65535>

## 8.3 Information Element definitions

# 6 8.3.1 General
When specifying information elements which are to be represented by bit strings, if not otherwise specifically stated in the semantics description of the concerned IE or elsewhere, the following principle applies with regards to the ordering of bits:
- The first bit (leftmost bit) contains the most significant bit (MSB);
- The last bit (rightmost bit) contains the least significant bit (LSB);
ORAN-WG3.E2SM-NI-v01.00.00
- When importing bit strings from other specifications, the first bit of the bit string contains the first bit of the
concerned information.

# 3 8.3.2 RAN Function name
This IE defines the Name of a given RAN Function Name IE as a structured data. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description RAN Function Short Name M PrintableString(SIZE(1..150,...)) ORAN-WG3-NI RAN Function Service Model M PrintableString(SIZE(1..1000,...) Object Identifier of OID ) this specific E2SM. Formatted as per OID (1.3.6.1.4.1.53148.1 .2.1 for E2SM-NI) RAN Function Description M PrintableString(SIZE(1..150,...)) “Network Interface” RAN Function Instance O INTEGER Default 0 assumed if absent

# 6 8.3.3 RIC Style Type
This IE defines the Identifier of a given RIC Style Type IE. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description RIC Style Type M INTEGER Note: Assignment of RIC Style Type values is described in section 7

# 11 8.3.4 RIC Style Name

# 12 This IE defines the RIC Style Name IE.
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description RIC Style Name M PrintableString(SIZE(1..150,...)) Note: Assignment of RIC Style Name values is described in section 7

# 16 8.3.5 RIC Format Type
This IE defines the Identifier of a given RIC Format Type IE. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description RIC Format Type M INTEGER Note: Assignment of RIC Format Type values is described in section 7 and summarized in section 7.8. ORAN-WG3.E2SM-NI-v01.00.00

# 4 8.3.7 RAN Parameter ID
This IE defines the RAN function specific RAN parameter ID IE. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description RAN Parameter ID M 0..maxofRA INTEGER Nparameter s Range bound Explanation maxofRANparameters Maximum no. of RAN Parameter ID. Value is < 65535>

# 8 8.3.8 RAN Parameter Test Condition
This IE defines the RAN Function specific RAN Parameter Test Condition IE to be used to compare the particular value of a given parameter with the target value. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description RAN Parameter Test M ENUMERATED (equal, Condition greaterthan, lessthan, contains, present, …) For all cases the test condition is Value (RAN Parameter ID) (RAN Parameter Test Condition) (RAN Parameter Value).

# 13 For example:
- If RAN Parameter Test Condition = “equal” then test condition is:

# 15 Value (RAN Parameter ID) = (RAN Parameter Value)
- If RAN Parameter Test Condition = “greaterthan” then test condition is:

# 17 Value (RAN Parameter ID) > (RAN Parameter Value)

# 18 8.3.9 RAN Parameter Value

# 19 This IE defines the RAN Parameter Value IE.
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description CHOICE RAN Parameter M Value >INTEGER INTEGER >ENUMERATED INTEGER >BOOLEAN BOOLEAN >BIT STRING BIT STRING >OCTET STRING OCTET STRING >PRINTABLE STRING PrintableString ORAN-WG3.E2SM-NI-v01.00.00

# 4 8.3.11 RAN Call process ID

# 5 8.3.11.1 RAN Call process ID approach 1
This IE defines the required Call process ID approach 1. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Call process ID number INTEGER

# 8 8.3.11.1 RAN Call process ID approach 2
This IE defines the required Call process ID approach 2 IE. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Call process ID string PrintableString(SIZE(1..150,…))

# 11 8.3.12 RIC Control Message Priority
This IE defines the RIC Control Message Priority IE IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description ControlMessagePriority M INTEGER

# 15 8.3.13 reserved

# 17 8.3.14 RAN UE Group ID
This IE defines the generic RAN UE Group ID IE IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description RAN UE Group ID M INTEGER Range bound Explanation maxofRANueGroups Maximum no. of RAN UE Groups. Value is <255> ORAN-WG3.E2SM-NI-v01.00.00

# 5 8.3.16 RAN Imperative Policy
This IE defines the generic RAN Imperative Policy IE IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Sequence of RAN 0..<maxofRAN Defines RAN UE Parameters parameters> group >RAN Parameter ID M 8.3.7 >RAN Parameter Value M 8.3.9 Range bound Explanation maxofRANparameters Maximum no. of RAN Parameter types in action definition supported by RAN Function. Value is <255>.

# 9 8.3.17 reserved

# 11 8.3.18 reserved

# 13 8.3.19 reserved

# 15 8.3.20 reserved

# 17 8.3.21 Network Interface Type
This IE defines the Network Interface Type as a list referring to a standardized Network Interface Type. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description NetworkInterfaceType M ENUMERATED (S1, X2, NG, Xn, F1, E1, …) ORAN-WG3.E2SM-NI-v01.00.00

# 3 - X2 means X2 interface [11]

# 4 - NG means NG (N2) interface [12]

# 5 - Xn means Xn interface [13]

# 6 - F1 means F1 interface [14]

# 7 - E1 means E1 interface [15]

# 9 8.3.22 Network Interface Identifier
This IE defines the Network Interface Identifier in terms of global identifier of the network node terminating a specific network interface. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description CHOICE M NetworkInterfaceIdentifier >Global eNB ID As defined in spec 3GPP For S1, X2 36.413 [10] section 9.2.1.37 >Global en-gNB ID As defined in spec 3GPP For X2 36.423 [11] section 9.2.112 >Global ng-RAN ID As defined in spec 3GPP For NG, Xn, F1, 38.413 [12] section 9.3.1.5 E1 >Global gNB-DU ID For F1 >> Global ng-RAN ID M As defined in spec 3GPP Used as prefix to 38.413 [12] section 9.3.1.5 gNB-DU ID >>gNB-DU ID M As defined in spec 3GPP For F1 38.473 [14] section 9.3.1.9 >Global gNB-CU-UP ID For E1 >> Global ng-RAN ID M As defined in spec 3GPP Used as prefix to 38.413 [12] section 9.3.1.5 gNB-CU-UP ID >>gNB-CU-UP ID M As defined in spec 3GPP For E1 38.463 [15] section 9.3.1.15

# 13 Notes:
- O-CU and O-CU-CP nodes terminating F1 and O-CU-CP nodes terminating E1 interfaces are identified by the
associated Global RAN Node ID
- O-DU nodes terminating F1 and O-CU-UP terminating E1 interfaces are identified by the local gNB-DU-ID or
gNB-CU-UP ID with a prefix Global RAN Node ID identifying logical gNB

# 18 8.3.23 Network Interface Direction

# 19 This IE defines the Network Interface Direction IE.
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description NetworkInterfaceDirection M ENUMERATED (incoming, outgoing, both, …) ORAN-WG3.E2SM-NI-v01.00.00

# 4 8.3.25 Network Interface Message Type
This IE defines the NetworkInterfaceMessageType in terms of Message Type structure data of the specific network interface. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description CHOICE M NetworkInterfaceMessageTy pe >S1 message type As defined in spec 3GPP For S1 36.413 [10] section 9.3.1.1 >X2 message type As defined in spec 3GPP For X2 36.423 [11] section 9.2.13 >NG message type As defined in spec 3GPP For NG 38.413 [12] section 9.3.1.1 >Xn message type As defined in spec 3GPP For Xn 38.423 [12] section 9.2.3.1 >F1 message type As defined in spec 3GPP For F1 38.473 [12] section 9.3.1.1 >E1 message type As defined in spec 3GPP For E1 38.463 [12] section 9.3.1.1

# 8 8.3.26 Message Protocol IE Identifier

# 9 This IE defines the MessageProtocolIE-ID
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description MessageProtocolIE-ID M INTEGER

# 11 Notes:
- Refer to the specific target interface specification for the assignment of network interface specific Message

# 13 Protocol IE Identifier
- Comon definition of type “INTEGER” has been observed to be adopted by all 3GPP interfaces and so assumed
here. ORAN-WG3.E2SM-NI-v01.00.00

# 6 Protocol IE Test Value).

# 7 For example:
- If Message Protocol IE Test Condition = “equal” then test condition is:
Value (Message Protocol IE ID) = (Message Protocol IE Test Value)
- If Message Protocol IE Test Condition = “greaterthan” then test condition is:
Value (Message Protocol IE ID) > (Message Protocol IE Test Value)

# 12 8.3.28 Message Protocol IE Value
This IE defines the target value type for a particular Message Protocol IE element. IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description CHOICE Message Protocol M IE Value >INTEGER INTEGER >ENUMERATED INTEGER >BOOLEAN BOOLEAN >BIT STRING BIT STRING >OCTET STRING OCTET STRING >PRINTABLE STRING PrintableString

# 15 8.3.29 Network Interface Message
This IE defines the Network Interface Message Container IE IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Network Interface Message M OCTET STRING Note: The actual contents of the message is defined in the network interface specification. ORAN-WG3.E2SM-NI-v01.00.00

## 8.4 Information Element Abstract Syntax (with ASN.1)

# 11 8.4.2 Information Element definitions
-- ASN1START -- ************************************************************** -- E2SM-NI -- Information Element Definitions -- -- ************************************************************** E2SM-NI-IEs { iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1) private(4) enterprise(1) 53148 e2(1) version1 (1) e2sm(2) e2sm-NI-IEs (1)} DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::= BEGIN -- ************************************************************** -- IEs -- ************************************************************** -- ************************************************************** -- copied from X2AP IEs v15.4.0 -- note: ie-Extensions removed -- Note: to avoid duplicate names with XnAP, GNB-ID renamed ENGNB-ID, GlobalGNB-ID renamed GlobalenGNB-ID -- ************************************************************** GlobalENB-ID ::= SEQUENCE { pLMN-Identity PLMN-Identity, eNB-ID ENB-ID, ... } ENB-ID ::= CHOICE { macro-eNB-ID BIT STRING (SIZE (20)), home-eNB-ID BIT STRING (SIZE (28)), ... , short-Macro-eNB-ID BIT STRING (SIZE(18)), long-Macro-eNB-ID BIT STRING (SIZE(21)) } GlobalenGNB-ID ::= SEQUENCE { pLMN-Identity PLMN-Identity, gNB-ID ENGNB-ID, ... } ENGNB-ID ::= CHOICE { gNB-ID BIT STRING (SIZE (22..32)), ... } PLMN-Identity ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(3)) -- ************************************************************** ORAN-WG3.E2SM-NI-v01.00.00 -- copied from 38.463 v15.5.0 E1AP IEs -- ************************************************************** GNB-CU-UP-ID::= INTEGER (0..68719476735) -- ************************************************************** -- copied from 38.473 v15.4.1 F1AP IEs -- ************************************************************** GNB-DU-ID::= INTEGER (0..68719476735) -- ************************************************************** -- copied from 38.423 v15.5.0 XnAP IEs -- note: ie-Extensions removed -- note: -- ************************************************************** GlobalgNB-ID ::= SEQUENCE { plmn-id PLMN-Identity, gnb-id GNB-ID-Choice, ... } GNB-ID-Choice ::= CHOICE { gnb-ID BIT STRING (SIZE(22..32)), ... } GlobalngeNB-ID ::= SEQUENCE { plmn-id PLMN-Identity, enb-id ENB-ID-Choice, ... } ENB-ID-Choice ::= CHOICE { enb-ID-macro BIT STRING (SIZE(20)), enb-ID-shortmacro BIT STRING (SIZE(18)), enb-ID-longmacro BIT STRING (SIZE(21)), ... } GlobalNG-RANNode-ID ::= CHOICE { gNB GlobalgNB-ID, ng-eNB GlobalngeNB-ID, ... } -- ************************************************************** -- -- copied from X2AP common data types v15.4.0 -- -- ************************************************************** maxProtocolIEs INTEGER ::= 65535 Criticality ::= ENUMERATED { reject, ignore, notify } Presence ::= ENUMERATED { optional, conditional, mandatory } ProcedureCode ::= INTEGER (0..255) ProtocolIE-ID ::= INTEGER (0..maxProtocolIEs) -- ************************************************************** -- -- Lists -- -- ************************************************************** maxofInterfaceProtocolTests INTEGER ::= 15 maxofRANueGroups INTEGER ::= 255 maxofActionParameters INTEGER ::= 255 maxofRANparameters INTEGER ::= 65535 maxofNItypes INTEGER ::= 63 maxofRICstyles INTEGER ::= 63 ORAN-WG3.E2SM-NI-v01.00.00 -- ************************************************************** -- E2SM-NI Service model IEs -- ************************************************************** -- --------------------------------------------------- -- Event Trigger Definition OCTET STRING contents -- --------------------------------------------------- -- E2SM-NI-EventTriggerDefinition IE E2SM-NI-EventTriggerDefinition ::= CHOICE{ eventDefinition-Format1 E2SM-NI-EventTriggerDefinition-Format1, ... } -- E2SM-NI-EventTriggerDefinition IE is used for Event Trigger Definition Format 1 E2SM-NI-EventTriggerDefinition-Format1 ::= SEQUENCE{ interface-type NI-Type, interface-ID NI-Identifier, interfaceDirection NI-Direction, interfaceMessageType NI-MessageType, interfaceProtocolIE-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxofInterfaceProtocolTests)) OF NI-ProtocolIE- Item OPTIONAL, ... } -- --------------------------------------------------- -- Action Definition OCTET STRING contents -- --------------------------------------------------- -- E2SM-NI-ActionDefinition IE E2SM-NI-ActionDefinition ::= SEQUENCE{ ric-Style-Type RIC-Style-Type, action-Definition-Format E2SM-NI-ActionDefinitionFormat, ... } E2SM-NI-ActionDefinitionFormat ::= CHOICE{ actionDefinition-Format1 E2SM-NI-ActionDefinition-Format1, actionDefinition-Format2 E2SM-NI-ActionDefinition-Format2, ... } -- E2SM-NI-ActionDefinition IE is used for Action Format 1 E2SM-NI-ActionDefinition-Format1 ::= SEQUENCE{ actionParameter-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxofActionParameters)) OF RANparameter-Item OPTIONAL, ... } -- E2SM-NI-ActionDefinition IE is used for Action Format 2 E2SM-NI-ActionDefinition-Format2 ::= SEQUENCE{ ranUEgroup-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxofRANueGroups)) OF RANueGroup-Item OPTIONAL, ... } -- --------------------------------------------------- -- Indication Header OCTET STRING contents -- --------------------------------------------------- -- E2SM-NI-IndicationHeader IE E2SM-NI-IndicationHeader ::= CHOICE{ indicationHeader-Format1 E2SM-NI-IndicationHeader-Format1, ... } -- E2SM-NI-IndicationHeader Format 1 E2SM-NI-IndicationHeader-Format1 ::= SEQUENCE{ interface-type NI-Type, interface-ID NI-Identifier, interfaceDirection NI-Direction, timestamp NI-TimeStamp OPTIONAL, ... } -- --------------------------------------------------- -- Indication Message OCTET STRING contents -- --------------------------------------------------- ORAN-WG3.E2SM-NI-v01.00.00 -- E2SM-NI-IndicationMessage IE E2SM-NI-IndicationMessage ::= CHOICE{ indicationMessage-Format1 E2SM-NI-IndicationMessage-Format1, ... } -- E2SM-NI-IndicationMessage IE E2SM-NI-IndicationMessage-Format1 ::= SEQUENCE{ interfaceMessage NI-Message, ... } -- --------------------------------------------------- -- Call Process ID -- --------------------------------------------------- E2SM-NI-CallProcessID ::= CHOICE{ callProcessID-Format1 E2SM-NI-CallProcessID-Format1, callProcessID-Format2 E2SM-NI-CallProcessID-Format2, ... } -- E2SM-NI-callProcessID IE Format 1 E2SM-NI-CallProcessID-Format1 ::= SEQUENCE{ callProcess-ID RANcallProcess-ID-number, ... } E2SM-NI-CallProcessID-Format2 ::= SEQUENCE{ callProcess-ID RANcallProcess-ID-string, ... } -- --------------------------------------------------- -- Control Header OCTET STRING contents -- --------------------------------------------------- -- E2SM-NI-ControlHeader IE E2SM-NI-ControlHeader ::= CHOICE{ controlHeader-Format1 E2SM-NI-ControlHeader-Format1, ... } -- E2SM-NI-ControlHeader Format 1 E2SM-NI-ControlHeader-Format1 ::= SEQUENCE{ interface-type NI-Type, interface-ID NI-Identifier, interface-Direction NI-Direction, ric-Control-Message-Priority RIC-Control-Message-Priority OPTIONAL, ... } -- --------------------------------------------------- -- Control Message OCTET STRING contents -- --------------------------------------------------- -- E2SM-NI-ControlHeader IE E2SM-NI-ControlMessage ::= CHOICE{ controlMessage-Format1 E2SM-NI-ControlMessage-Format1, ... } -- E2SM-NI-ControlMessage Format 1 E2SM-NI-ControlMessage-Format1 ::= SEQUENCE{ interfaceMessage NI-Message, ... } -- --------------------------------------------------- -- Control Outcome OCTET STRING contents -- --------------------------------------------------- -- E2SM-NI-ControlOutcome IE E2SM-NI-ControlOutcome ::= CHOICE{ controlOutcome-Format1 E2SM-NI-ControlOutcome-Format1, ... ORAN-WG3.E2SM-NI-v01.00.00 } -- E2SM-NI-ControlOutcome Format 1 E2SM-NI-ControlOutcome-Format1 ::= SEQUENCE{ outcomeElement-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxofRANparameters)) OF RANparameter-Item OPTIONAL, ... } -- --------------------------------------------------- -- RAN Function Description OCTET STRING contents -- --------------------------------------------------- -- E2SM-NI-RANfunction-Description E2SM-NI-RANfunction-Description ::= SEQUENCE{ ranFunction-Name RANfunction-Name, ni-Type-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxofNItypes)) OF E2SM-NI-RANfunction-Item OPTIONAL, ... } E2SM-NI-RANfunction-Item ::= SEQUENCE{ interface-type NI-Type, ric-EventTriggerStyle-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxofRICstyles)) OF RIC-EventTriggerStyle-List OPTIONAL, ric-ReportStyle-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxofRICstyles)) OF RIC-ReportStyle-List OPTIONAL, ric-InsertStyle-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxofRICstyles)) OF RIC-InsertStyle-List OPTIONAL, ric-ControlStyle-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxofRICstyles)) OF RIC-ControlStyle-List OPTIONAL, ric-PolicyStyle-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxofRICstyles)) OF RIC-PolicyStyle-List OPTIONAL, ... } -- --------------------------------------------------- -- commmon IEs -- --------------------------------------------------- -- A -- B -- C -- D -- E -- F -- G Global-eNB-ID ::= GlobalENB-ID Global-en-gNB-ID ::= GlobalenGNB-ID Global-gNB-DU-ID ::= SEQUENCE{ global-ng-RAN-ID Global-ng-RAN-ID, gNB-DU-ID GNB-DU-ID } Global-gNB-CU-UP-ID ::= SEQUENCE{ global-ng-RAN-ID Global-ng-RAN-ID, gNB-CU-UP-ID GNB-CU-UP-ID } Global-ng-RAN-ID ::= GlobalNG-RANNode-ID -- H -- I -- J -- K -- L -- M -- N NI-Direction ::= ENUMERATED{ incoming, outgoing, both, ... } NI-Identifier ::= CHOICE{ global-eNB-ID Global-eNB-ID, global-en-gNB-ID Global-en-gNB-ID, global-ng-RAN-ID Global-ng-RAN-ID, global-gNB-DU-ID Global-gNB-DU-ID, global-gNB-CU-UP-ID Global-gNB-CU-UP-ID, ORAN-WG3.E2SM-NI-v01.00.00 ... } NI-Message ::= OCTET STRING NI-MessageType::= CHOICE{ s1MessageType NI-MessageTypeS1, x2MessageType NI-MessageTypeX2, ngMessageType NI-MessageTypeNG, xnMessageType NI-MessageTypeXn, f1MessageType NI-MessageTypeF1, e1MessageType NI-MessageTypeE1, ... } NI-MessageTypeS1 ::= NI-MessageTypeApproach1 NI-MessageTypeX2 ::= NI-MessageTypeApproach1 NI-MessageTypeNG ::= NI-MessageTypeApproach1 NI-MessageTypeXn ::= NI-MessageTypeApproach1 NI-MessageTypeF1 ::= NI-MessageTypeApproach1 NI-MessageTypeE1 ::= NI-MessageTypeApproach1 NI-MessageTypeApproach1 ::= SEQUENCE { procedureCode ProcedureCode, typeOfMessage TypeOfMessage, ... } TypeOfMessage ::= ENUMERATED { nothing, initiating-message, successful-outcome, unsuccessful- outcome } NI-ProtocolIE-Item ::= SEQUENCE{ interfaceProtocolIE-ID NI-ProtocolIE-ID, interfaceProtocolIE-Test NI-ProtocolIE-Test, interfaceProtocolIE-Value NI-ProtocolIE-Value, ... } NI-ProtocolIE-ID ::= ProtocolIE-ID NI-ProtocolIE-Test ::= ENUMERATED{ equal, greaterthan, lessthan, contains, present, ... } NI-ProtocolIE-Value ::= CHOICE{ valueInt INTEGER, valueEnum INTEGER, valueBool BOOLEAN, valueBitS BIT STRING, valueOctS OCTET STRING, valuePrtS PrintableString, ... } NI-TimeStamp ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(8)) NI-Type ::= ENUMERATED{ s1, x2, ng, xn, f1, e1, ... } -- O -- P -- Q ORAN-WG3.E2SM-NI-v01.00.00 -- R RANcallProcess-ID-number ::= INTEGER RANcallProcess-ID-string ::= PrintableString(SIZE(1..150,...)) RANfunction-Name ::= SEQUENCE{ ranFunction-ShortName PrintableString(SIZE(1..150,...)), ranFunction-E2SM-OID PrintableString(SIZE(1..1000,...)), ranFunction-Description PrintableString(SIZE(1..150,...)), ranFunction-Instance INTEGER OPTIONAL, ... } RANimperativePolicy ::= SEQUENCE{ ranImperativePolicy-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxofRANparameters)) OF RANparameter-Item OPTIONAL, ... } RANparameter-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ranParameter-ID RANparameter-ID, ranParameter-Value RANparameter-Value, ... } RANparameterDef-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ranParameter-ID RANparameter-ID, ranParameter-Name RANparameter-Name, ranParameter-Type RANparameter-Type, ... } RANparameter-ID ::= INTEGER (0..maxofRANparameters) RANparameter-Name ::= PrintableString(SIZE(1..150,...)) RANparameter-Test-Condition ::= ENUMERATED{ equal, greaterthan, lessthan, contains, present, ... } RANparameter-Type ::= ENUMERATED{ integer, enumerated, boolean, bit-string, octet-string, printable-string, ... } RANparameter-Value ::= CHOICE{ valueInt INTEGER, valueEnum INTEGER, valueBool BOOLEAN, valueBitS BIT STRING, valueOctS OCTET STRING, valuePrtS PrintableString, ... } RANueGroupID ::= INTEGER (0..maxofRANueGroups) RANueGroup-Item ::= SEQUENCE { ranUEgroupID RANueGroupID, ranUEgroupDefinition RANueGroupDefinition, ranPolicy RANimperativePolicy, ... } ORAN-WG3.E2SM-NI-v01.00.00 RANueGroupDefinition ::= SEQUENCE{ ranUEgroupDef-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxofRANparameters)) OF RANueGroupDef-Item OPTIONAL, ... } RANueGroupDef-Item ::= SEQUENCE{ ranParameter-ID RANparameter-ID, ranParameter-Test RANparameter-Test-Condition, ranParameter-Value RANparameter-Value, ... } RIC-Control-Message-Priority ::= INTEGER RIC-ControlStyle-List ::= SEQUENCE{ ric-ControlStyle-Type RIC-Style-Type, ric-ControlStyle-Name RIC-Style-Name, ric-ControlFormat-Type RIC-Format-Type, ric-ControlHeaderFormat-Type RIC-Format-Type, ric-ControlMessageFormat-Type RIC-Format-Type, ric-CallProcessIDFormat-Type RIC-Format-Type, ric-ControlOutcomeFormat-Type RIC-Format-Type, ric-ControlOutcomeRanParaDef-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxofRANparameters)) OF RANparameterDef- Item, ... } RIC-EventTriggerStyle-List ::= SEQUENCE{ ric-EventTriggerStyle-Type RIC-Style-Type, ric-EventTriggerStyle-Name RIC-Style-Name, ric-EventTriggerFormat-Type RIC-Format-Type, ... } RIC-InsertStyle-List ::= SEQUENCE{ ric-InsertStyle-Type RIC-Style-Type, ric-InsertStyle-Name RIC-Style-Name, ric-InsertActionFormat-Type RIC-Format-Type, ric-InsertRanParameterDef-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxofRANparameters)) OF RANparameterDef- Item, ric-IndicationHeaderFormat-Type RIC-Format-Type, ric-IndicationMessageFormat-Type RIC-Format-Type, ric-CallProcessIDFormat-Type RIC-Format-Type, ... } RIC-PolicyStyle-List ::= SEQUENCE{ ric-PolicyStyle-Type RIC-Style-Type, ric-PolicyStyle-Name RIC-Style-Name, ric-PolicyActionFormat-Type RIC-Format-Type, ric-PolicyRanParameterDef-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxofRANparameters)) OF RANparameterDef- Item, ... } RIC-ReportStyle-List ::= SEQUENCE{ ric-ReportStyle-Type RIC-Style-Type, ric-ReportStyle-Name RIC-Style-Name, ric-ReportActionFormat-Type RIC-Format-Type, ric-ReportRanParameterDef-List SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxofRANparameters)) OF RANparameterDef- Item, ric-IndicationHeaderFormat-Type RIC-Format-Type, ric-IndicationMessageFormat-Type RIC-Format-Type, ... } RIC-Format-Type ::= INTEGER RIC-Style-Type ::= INTEGER RIC-Style-Name ::= PrintableString(SIZE(1..150,...)) -- S -- T ORAN-WG3.E2SM-NI-v01.00.00 -- U -- V -- W -- X -- Y -- Z END -- ASN1STOP

## 8.5 Message transfer syntax
E2SM shall use the ASN.1 Basic Packed Encoding Rules (BASIC-PER) Aligned Variant as transfer syntax, as specified in ITU-T Rec. X.691 [7].

# 9 Handling of Unknown, Unforeseen and Erroneous
Protocol Data Section 10 of TS 36.413 [10] is applicable for the purposes of the present document.


---

<!-- SOURCE: combined_oran_wg4.md -->
<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG4.CTI-TCP.0-R003-v04.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG4.CTI-TCP.0-R003-v04.00 Technical Specification Transport Control Plane Specification"
---

# 5 Release xx.yy.zz
where: xx the first digit-group is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc. (the initial approved document will have xx=01). yy the second digit-group is incremented when editorial only changes have been incorporated in the document. zz the third digit-group included only in working versions of the document indicating incremental changes during the editing process. The present document describes the Cooperative Transport Interface (CTI). CTI is an optional interface between O-DUs and Transport Nodes of a packet-based transport network that is used to interconnect the O-DUs to a variety of O-RUs. CTI specifically targets transport Nodes that manage a shared point-to-multipoint access network. Transport nodes (routers and switches) that only manage point-to-point links do not exchange CTI messages with the O-DUs. CTI consists of a CTI Transport Control plane (TC-plane) and a Transport Management (Information Model, Data Model, procedures) (TM). This document specifies the TC-plane. The TM is specified in O-RAN CTI TMP [4]. The use of CTI targets packet-based transport networks that contain Transport Nodes (TNs) that terminate one or multiple shared distribution networks, where each distribution network (one port on one TN) aggregates a multitude of Transport Units (TUs). This implies that the bandwidth of a distribution network is shared among multiple TUs. In the upstream direction, the TN manages this sharing by scheduling bandwidth allocations to the multiple TUs. There are two ways to determine how much bandwidth to allocate, either statically or dynamically. Statically (i.e. continuously) granting a fixed bandwidth provides the lowest latency but requires to assign the peak rate. When the bandwidth need is below the peak, the allocated bandwidth is not fully consumed and this difference will be wasted because unavailable for other traffic. On the other hand, dynamically granting bandwidth is typically done with a reactive system in the sense that the bandwidth allocations follow the needs by monitoring the past and present traffic and buffer status. This provides a more efficient multiplexing of multiple traffic streams by maximizing the use of the shared bandwidth, but the reaction time of the system introduces more latency. The intent of providing cooperation between the O-DU and the TN over CTI is to make the upstream bandwidth allocation by the TN pro-active by anticipating the bandwidth needs. This is possible in the upstream direction because the O-DU allocates uplink grants to the UEs for slots in the future, based on their requests. Thefore the O-DU is able to notify corresponding future bandwidth needs of the O-RUs based on its granting decisions. The TN is then able to prepare the corresponding bandwidth allocations for the corresponding TUs. The effect is to allow for dynamic bandwidth allocation following the variations of the carried fronthaul traffic (providing statistical multiplexing on the shared network), while minimizing upstream buffering in the TU, hence keeping upstream latency low. It allows for a more efficient use of transport network resources than with a fixed allocation to peak bandwidth values, and for a lower latency than with a purely reactive allocation of bandwidth values by the TN. The CTI functionality as such is optional. If an O-DU supports CTI, it has to follow the O-RAN CTI TCP (this document) and O-RAN CTI TMP [4] specifications. The uplink latency that CTI aims to limit is specified as “T34max” in O-RAN [2].

# 12 Specification”

# 25 Television Laboratories, Inc
[7] Cable Labs CM-SP-MULPIv3.1-I19-191016, “DOCSIS 3.1 MAC and Upper Layer Protocols Interface

# 27 Specification” , Cable Television Laboratories, Inc

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].

# 34 New terms used in this document:
 CTI client: a process in the O-DU that exchanges CTI messages to one or multiple CTI servers, e.g. to request a given transport capacity.  CTI server: a process in the Transport Node that exchanges CTI messages with one or multiple CTI clients, e.g. to receive capacity requests.  CTI message sender: CTI client or CTI server generating a CTI message  CTI message receiver; CTI client or CTI server receiving a CTI message

# 4 Conventions used in this document:
 The following convention applies any time a bit field is displayed in a figure. The bit field shall be interpreted by reading the figure from left to right, then from top to bottom, with the MSB being the first bit so read and the

# 7 LSB being the last bit so read.

## 3.2 Symbols

# 10 None.

## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply.

# 13 BWR Bandwidth Reporting

# 14 CM Cable Modem

# 15 CMTS Cable Modem Termination System

# 16 CoS Class of Service

# 17 CO DBA Cooperative DBA

# 18 CTI Cooperative Transport Interface

# 19 DBA Dynamic Bandwidth Allocation

# 20 DOCSIS Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification

# 21 DSCP Differentiated Services Code Point
eAxC extended Antenna Carrier eNB e NodeB (applies to LTE) gNB g NodeB (applies to NR)

# 25 GNSS Global Navigation Satellite System

# 26 HFC Hybrid Fiber Coax

# 27 L2 Layer 2

# 28 L3 Layer 3

# 29 LAA Licensed Assisted Access

# 30 LBT Listen Before Talk (applies to LAA)

# 31 LLID Logical Link ID

# 32 LLS Lower Layer Split

# 33 MAC Media Access Control

# 34 O-CU O-RAN Central Unit

# 35 O-DU O-RAN Distributed Unit

# 36 O-RU O-RAN Radio Unit

# 37 OLT Optical Line Termination

# 38 ONU Optical Networking Unit

# 3 PON Passive Optical Network

# 4 PTP Precision Time Protocol

# 5 QoS Quality of Service
Ra, R1, R2, R3, R4: eCPRI reference points as shown in Figure 2-9 of [2]

# 7 SF Service Flow

# 8 T-CONT Transmission Container

# 9 TC Traffic Class for IPv6
Ta3, T34 Transmission delays as defined in Figure 2-9 of [2]

# 11 TC(P) Transport Control (Plane)

# 12 TDM Time Division Multiplexing

# 13 TM(P) Transport Management (Procedures)

# 14 TN Transport Node

# 15 ToS Type of Service for IPv6

# 16 TPID Tag Protocol Identifier

# 17 TU Transport Unit

# 18 UDP User Datagram Protocol

# 19 UE User Equipment

# 20 VLAN Virtual LAN

# 21 WDM Wavelength Division Multiplexing

# 4 Cooperative Transport Interface (CTI)

## 4.1 General Network Architecture and Mechanism
With reference to the O-RAN CUS [2] and O-RAN MP [3] specifications, the fronthaul reference architecture is extended to include the cooperative transport interface and transport network, as depicted in Figure 4.1, where the new functions are defined as follows:

# 7 Figure 4.1 : CTI basic reference architecture
Cooperative Transport Interface (CTI): an O-RAN defined interface designed to support real-time and non-real time cooperation between the eNB/gNB and the resource allocation based transport networks. Transport Network: transfers lls-C/U/S and lls-M traffics between O-DU and O-RU. Transport Node (TN): a master transport network node at O-DU side. A TN schedules one or multiple TUs to perform resource allocation for upstream transmission. It also interfaces with O-DU via CTI and decodes T-plane messages in order to coordinate its own scheduling with forward-looking traffic requirements communicated by O-DU. Transport Unit (TU): a slave transport network node at O-RU side. The control and management interface between TN and TU is out of scope of this document. CTI TC-plane: (Transport Control plane). The TC-plane refers specifically to real-time Transport Control between the CTI Client in the O-DU and the CTI Server in the TN.. CTI TM (Transport Management). The TM Information Model / Data Model model refers to the configuration of parameters for the CTI functionality on the O-DU, and to those CTI configuration parameters that need to be coordinated between mobile SMO and transport network OSS. The purpose of CTI (TC-plane and TM model) is to support cooperation between the O-DU and the TN in the transport network. The interface between TN and TU is transport network specific and is out of the scope of this specification. Figure 4.2 shows how the CTI relates to the transport network used for fronthaul. The uplink latency T34max is specified between the R3 reference point of the O-RU and the R4 reference point of the O-DU. Note that additionally there could be intermediate nodes (switches or routers) between the O-DUs and TNs (not shown in the figure). These nodes do not interact with the CTI process. However, they can introduce extra latency, which need then to be subtracted from the T34max limit to obtain the resulting latency budget for the TN-TU part of the transport network.

# 8 Figure 4.2 : Detailed view of CTI

### 4.1.1 High Level CTI Message Flow
Figure 4.3 below illustrates a high level view of how CTI works. For simplification only a single O-RU and a single O- DU are shown. The UEs are not shown in this figure. Figure 4.3 : Message Flow for CTI in UL Operations The actions and related message exchanges are as follows:

# 19 1. O-DU determines UE grants for slot n.
2. O-DU sends the CTI message to the TN to request fronthaul bytes for slot n, sufficiently in advance (see Figure

### 4.1.2 Packet-based Transport Network topologies supported by CTI
The simplest way to provide connectivity for Fronthaul is to provide one point-point link (e.g. optical fiber) between each O-RU network interface and its correspodning O-DU. One O-DU can serve multiple O-RUs, and each O-RU can have multiple network interfaces and multiple radio carriers (which may also be known as cells). The upstream radio traffic in the radio carriers is scheduled by O-DU schedulers. In such case there is no sharing of transport resources, each connection has its dedicated bandwidth and physical link, the CTI mechanism is not required. Figure 4.4 : Direct interconnections between multiple O-DUs and multiple O-RUs over point-point links Things change when a packet-based transport network is used to interconnect the O-DUs and their corresponding O-RUs. The use of CTI targets transport networks that contain Transport Nodes (TNs) that terminate one or multiple shared distribution networks, where each distribution network (one port on one TN) aggregates multiple Transport Units (TUs). This implies that the bandwidth of a distribution network is shared among multiple TUs. In the upstream direction, the TN manages this sharing by scheduling bandwidth allocations to the multiple TUs. The concept of CTI can be applied to inform the relevant Transport Nodes (TN) of the required uplink traffic load and traffic timing that each O-RU to O-DU connection will have to carry. There is a need to uniquely indentify the corresponding connection in each traffic request being signaled over CTI. This identifier is added by the O-DU, and shall be commonly known by both the O-DU and TN. However, the identifier should be agnostic of any TN-technology- specific parameters in order to maintain general applicability of the concept to any technology. The TN then has the responsibility to translate this generic identifier into its own technology-specific parameters, e,g. a Transmission Container (T-CONT) or Logical Link ID (LLID) for PON (the TN being an OLT) or a Service Flow (SF) for DOCSIS

# 8 (the TN being a CMTS).
The uniqueness of the identifier shall allow for multiple architecture use cases, whereby the O-DU should not be dependent on the underlying Transport Network topology. The different architecture use cases are illustrated in Figure 4.5. Basically, O-DUs and TNs may be connected in multiple ways (each O-DU may connect to multiple TNs, each TN may connect to multiple O-DUs). Figure 4.5 : Possible interconnections between multiple O-DUs and multiple O-RUs over a transport network consisting of a multitude of Transport Nodes (TNs) and their corresponding shared distribution networks with multiple Transport Units (TUs). Basically, a “fronthaul traffic flow” is a flow of packets that requires a given capacity and latency limit. A unique identification is needed in the TN to convert a request for a fronthaul traffic flow into a scheduling action on the corresponding managed entity (Traffic Container / alloc-ID or Logical Link ID in PON or Service Flow in DOCSIS) on the corresponding TU (PON ONU or DOCSIS CM). The unique identification consists of two parts. The first is called “CTI Session ID” and refers uniquely and globally to a specific O-RU physical interface (used by one or multiple radio carriers). In case there is no differentiation beyond the O-RU physical interface, the CTI Session ID is sufficient. The second is called “Flow ID”, which allows to differentiate and report different fronthaul flows per CTI session. The CTI Flow ID is unique only within the context of its CTI Session ID, the same CTI Flow IDs may be re-used across different sessions. See section 5 for more details. Examples of using the CTI Session ID and CTI Flow ID are shown in Figure 4.5:  O-RU 1: 1:1 mapping between one O-DU scheduler and one O-RU interface (single radio carrier instance), carrying a single flow. A single CTI Session ID is sufficient. A single report is communicated.  O-RU 2: 1:1 mapping between one O-DU scheduler and one O-RU interface (single radio carrier instance), carrying multiple flows. A single CTI Session ID is sufficient. Multiple reports with different Flow IDs may be used to differentiate the flows.  O-RU 3 and O-RU 4: Multiple O-RUs being served by a single TU, each with 1:1 mappings between an O-DU scheduler and an O-RU interface. Each O-RU has one different CTI session ID.  O-RU 5: N:1 mapping between multiple radio carrier instances (e.g. multiple sectors, multiple frequency bands) and one O-RU interface. A single message may be used, with a single CTI Session ID reporting the sum of the different radio carrier loads. Alternatively, multiple messages (from a single or from multiple CTI clients) may also be used, which are then interpreted together by the TN.  O-RU 6: Multiple 1:1 mappings between one O-DU scheduler and one O-RU interface, on the same O-RU and TU. One CTI Session ID is used per O-RU interface.

# 7 Notes
 These high-level use cases may also be combined together (e.g. Multiple flows on multiple O-RU interfaces).

# 9 The protocol also supports such combined use cases.
 The use case of multiple network interfaces per radio carrier (for bonding or redundancy purposes) is out of scope of this version on CTI. This specification only considers a single network interface per radio carrier. In case of multiple radio carriers, it is assumed in this specification that each uses a single O-RU network interface (which could be the same as the other radio instances, or a dedicated one (like O-RU 6 in Figure 2-5).  The CTI client side generating the CTI reports may be implemented as multiple instances per O-DU.  The CTI server side treating the CTI reports may be implemented as multiple instances per TN. There are two possible ways to populate the CTI Session IDs in the O-DUs and TNs, either statically by means of preconfiguration via their OAM systems, or dynamically by means of an auto-discovery mechanism (see section 5.2.1). The CTI operation between the O-DU and the TN is specified independently of the configuration method of the CTI

# 19 Session IDs.

### 4.1.3 Forwarding and addressing of CTI messages
The CTI messages generated by a CTI instance in the O-DU shall be forwarded to and addressed to the corresponding CTI peer in the corresponding TN. Depending on the interconnection between the O-DUs and the TNs, CTI messages are encapsulated at Layer 2 or at Layer 3:  Point to point links; Layer 2 or Layer 3

# 25  Ethernet switches; Layer 2 or Layer 3

# 26  IP Routers; Layer 3

# 27 Encapsulation details are described in section 5.1.

## 4.2 Information Required for Cooperative Transport

### 4.2.1 From O-DU to Transport
The O-DU needs to convey the bandwidth needs per O-RU interface per time interval with a unique identifier of the traffic being reported. There is also the option to convey information about load patterns inside the reported time interval.

# 32 A report carries the following information;
 Time interval End (time at which all fronthaul packets pertaining to that time interval have been sent by the O-

# 34 RU)
 Time interval Start (time at which fronthaul packets pertaining to that time interval start to be sent by the O-RU)

# 36  CTI Session ID + optionally Flow ID
 Required load for the time interval of the session (and flow in the session) The TN needs to correlate the unique identification (CTI Session ID + optionally Flow ID) to a corresponding unique traffic container on a corresponding TU. The TN needs to interpret the required load and convert it to bandwidth allocations corresponding to the reported time interval. The TN should also be aware of the latency budget it has available per O-RU interface (or per flow per O-RU interface in case of differentiation between multiple flows). This is the portion of T34max for the TN-TU segment. It allows the TN to give relative priorities between the fronthaul connections it manages. As this parameter is a fixed value, it is not carried in CTI messages but should be configured on the TN by its OAM.

### 4.2.2 From Transport to O-DU
Uplink CTI messages may be used for the specific case of notification of PON ranging (see Annex A.1.4 for background on PON ranging). The uplink interruptions caused by PON ranging will be felt in the O-DU as jitter or packet drop on the upstream fronthaul packets. In worst case, the interruptions can be in the order of several hundreds of µs. Such relatively short interruptions will not cause an outage of the radio system (no action by the network, no radio link interruption), but can still have detrimental effects, depending on whether the data is protected by HARQ and on the way the O-DU would react to the perceived jitter or loss. However, an adaptive RAN scheduler might conclude the degradation is due to an impaired radio channel, which would be inappropriate and could lead to wrong reactions by the O-DU, further degrading performance. To avoid this, the O- DU can benefit from knowing when the uplink is subject to interruptions due to the transport network. A specific CTI signaling message is defined in section 5.1.3.1 that allows the TN (OLT) to notify the O-DU about an upcoming ranging event. One event has a maximum duration and contains a series of interruptions. A PON ranging notification carries the following information;  Event start and Maximal Event duration in which ranging interruptions will occur  Maximal duration per interruption (corresponding to the quiet window size on the PON)  List of CTI Session IDs impacted by the ranging event The CTI Server in the TN (OLT) sends a ranging notification for a PON to every CTI Client that manages one or multiple

# 25 CTI sessions on that given PON.
The notification message has to arrive at the O-DU at least 10 ms in advance of the event. The O-DU is free to apply whatever proprietary action after reception of the ranging notifications. Figure 4.6 : Notification of PON ranging upstream interruptions

## 4.3 Calculation of CTI reports by O-DU

### 4.3.1 Required load
Uplink fronthaul traffic from O-RU to O-DU can consist of U-plane, C-plane, and M-plane packets. The load reporting by CTI has to allow the TN to follow the traffic variations over time, but this needs prediction of this traffic.

# 11 Layer 2 and/or Layer 3 mapping.
For cases where one O-RU (or O-RU interface) aggregates fronthaul traffic from multiple RAN schedulers (e.g. multiple sectors), the O-DU shall be able to report the full traffic load for the O-RU (or O-RU interface) in an aggregated message, or in separate messages, and the TN has to interpret all information for the O-RU (or O-RU interface).

# 15 4.3.1.2 C-plane
Uplink C-plane messages are not present except for the special case of Licensed Assisted Access (LAA). If LAA is used, the C-plane uplink traffic consists of messages for Listen Before Talk (LBT). LBT is performed per carrier. There can be more than one carrier per RU. It is expected that typical deployments will be maximum 4 carriers. The LBT process depends on the channel utilization and is hence unpredictable, but it is possible to determine the following worst-case assumptions:
- Repetition of LBT_PDSCH_RSP every subframe (1ms) of (message size 25 Bytes). With max 4 carriers this
gives 4 such messages per subframe.
- Repetition of the other messages LBT_DRS_RSP, LBT_Buffer_Error, LBT_CWCONFIG_RSP (message sizes
of 21 Bytes) is much less, the assumption is one of those messages every subframe (1ms)
- Assuming transport over UDP/IPv4/tagged Ethernet gives encapsulation overhead of 50 Bytes per message
- Full burstiness; the O-RU sends these 5 messages back-to-back close to the end of the subframe, but exact timing
can vary.
- The average C-plane uplink load is 3 Mbit/s per O-RU.
In terms of latency, there are two aspects to take care of. First, the typical latency requirement for LBT C-plane messages themselves is 0.5ms (minus some margin for processing). Second, the presence of uplink C-plane messages may not push the latency of uplink U-plane messages above their tolerance threshold. There are two ways to accommodate for the uplink C-plane messages;

# 35 Including C-plane traffic in CTI messaging
The C-plane may be part of the CTI reporting when the CTI client continuously adds a certain fixed bandwidth (eg based on the above worst-case example) for the C-plane traffic in all its reports. The advantage is that the transport network does not need to be aware of the nature of such traffic and does not need extra configuration, and the O-DU can use a simple constant term in its calculations. Such allocated bandwidth for C-plane messages shall ensure that they are not buffered too long, so that their latency is respected (assuming 0.45ms for including processing time). In the example above this requires to include enough extra bandwidth in each report to transmit 3 Mbit/s in less than 0.45ms, being an extra bandwidth of at least 6.6 Mbit/s. (Because the exact timing of the LBT messages is not known, even if the CTI reporting would be more frequent than the frequency of LBT messages (1ms), it would not be accurate to estimate which report would be capturing the LBT messages, so the extra bandwidth shall be granted in each report). The impact of C-plane on U-plane latency is due to the sharing of the same TU buffer for U-plane and C-plane packets, and the TDM nature of the transport network (bandwidth allocation is not (fully) done by line rate adjustment but (also) by TDM burst adjustment). C-plane packets in the head of the queue will impact U-plane packets behind them. U-plane traffic typically has stricter transport latency requirements than the 0.5ms (or 0.45ms) for the C-plane traffic.
- If the U-plane bandwidth gets small compared to the C-plane bandwidth and the combined allocated bandwidth
is just their sum, then the C-plane packets could block the U-plane packets behind them for too long before being transmitted. Hence a floor value of allocated bandwidth (even if U-plane traffic would be very low) could be needed.
- Most of the time the U-plane traffic is much higher than the C-plane traffic, but even so if the allocated bandwidth
is just the sum of C- and U-plane traffic, the U-plane traffic could need more TDM bursts to be fully transmitted than without the C-plane traffic. This increases latency. Using a higher value than the actual C-plane traffic as the extra term in the CTI report calculation could be needed to reduce this impact. This has to be estimated depending on the technology of the Transport network and the latency requirements. In summary, this approach may be chosen by configuring at the CTI client (per CTI session ID) a parameter for a fixed extra bandwidth (#bytes to be added per report) and a parameter for a minimum total bandwidth (minimum #bytes to be used per report independently of the actual need). The CTI server and TN is not aware of the differences between U-plane and C-plane. Separate transport flows for uplink C-plane traffic and uplink U-plane traffic Alternatively, for full latency isolation of C-plane and U-plane traffic, the transport system may offer a dedicated and fixed uplink transport channel that can be used for LBT messages. The C-plane packets would have to be uniquely identified for classification to the transport flow (eg by means of PCP or DSCP marking). The C-plane traffic is then decoupled from the CTI reporting, CTI only handles U-plane uplink traffic in CTI-controlled transport channel. The U- plane traffic will not share the same TU buffer and will experience latency impact from the C-plane traffic. The transport system should provide a dedicated bandwidth to the C-plane transport channel that provides sufficiently low latency. This requires the O-RU to be configured to apply differentiated marking between C-plane and U-plane traffic, and coordination between Transport and Mobile management systems to configure an appropriate value of the dedicated C-plane transport channel bandwidth. In CTI messages there is no need to take C-plane traffic into account, so the fixed extra bandwidth and minimum total bandwidth may be set to 0 in the configuration of the CTI client.

# 28 4.3.1.3 M-plane
The M-plane uplink traffic is not fully predictable by the O-DU. However, that traffic is much less latency-sensitive and can be differentiated by different Layer 2 or Layer 3 marking from U-plane and C-plane. It may be kept out of CTI reporting and transported separately from the U-plane and C-plane traffic by the TN.

### 4.3.2 Time interval of the reported load
The TN shall be informed about the time interval in which the reported load will be arriving at the TU interface. Each CTI message can carry the start and end of uplink fronthaul transmission on the O-RU R3 interface (please see section

# 35 5.1.4.2 and 5.1.4.3).
There is an inherent O-RU latency Ta3 between the antenna interface Ra and the uplink reference point R3, characterized by the O-RU category with a margin of 20µs or 50µs (See Table B-5 in O-RAN CUS [2]). The O-DU is aware of the category per O-RU. In CTI a time of day is communicated as a Base time (granularity in ns) + an Offset (granularity in µs), see section 5.1.4.1. Accuracy of time references (Base + Offset) shall be better than half the category margin, namely 10µs (-5µs/+5µs).

### 4.3.3 Exchange rate of CTI Reporting

# 3 1 ms

# 4 0,5 ms

# 5 0,25 ms
When a CTI_MIN value is specified at O-DU level, it means all active CTI clients on the O-DU shall support the rate, e.g. when multiple clients are used for a same Session ID they have to operate at the same message exchange rate. Alternatively CTI_MIN can be specified per CTI client instance. Note that a category only represents a capability, it does NOT mandate the use of that particular value as actual CTI message exchange rate. The selection of the actual rate is described hereunder.

# 19 4.3.3.2 Determining common nominal CTI rate (CTI_NOM)
A common CTI rate shall be selected for a given combination of O-DU and TN and a given mobile slot duration. The common rate is a nominal value for the spacing between two messages, expressed as CTI_NOM. In principle, the maximum CTI exchange rate that is ever needed is one reporting message per mobile slot duration, as this is the granularity at which the RAN schedulers can allocate traffic. But such high exchange rate will not always be possible or even needed. If the common CTI rate is less than once per every mobile slot, multiple mobile slots have to be grouped in the same CTI reporting message, so CTI_NOM shall always follow an integer number (N ≥ 1) of mobile slot units. CTI_NOM shall comply to both of the following:

# 27 1) Shall be supported by O-DU and TN:

# 28 CTI_NOM ≥ max(CTI_MIN(O-RU), CTI_MIN(TN))
2) Shall be a multiple of mobile slot duration: CTI_NOM = N × (mobile slot duration), where N is a non-zero integer, and depends on the latency requirements. Example: Assuming a mobile slot of 0.5ms, if an O-DU supports a CTI_MIN of 0.5ms and a TN supports a CTI_MIN of 1ms, the fastest common CTI exchange rate would be CTI_NOM = 1ms (containing 2 mobile slots). However, if the required latency can still be reached by applying a higher CTI_NOM like 1.5ms (3 mobile slots) or 2ms (4 mobile slots), it is allowed to use such larger values as well.

# 37 CTI_NOM has to be interpreted as follows:
- If no load is to be reported for some period, CTI messages don’t need to be sent at CTI_NOM rate, so the spacing
may be larger. Keepalives are still exchanged periodically in any case. See section 5.2.2 for background.
- CTI_NOM represents an average rate and not a strict message spacing, there may be some jitter on CTI messages
themselves, see section 4.2 for background. The sequence number inside each CTI message can be used to detect the drop of a CTI message. Further actions for missing or out-of-order sequence numbers are not specified in this specification.

# 5 CTI Message Protocol
This section describes the mandatory functions of the CTI protocol. Figure 5.1 is a reference diagram that includes the ORAN system and transport system functional blocks. The transmission system could be a PON or DOCSIS transport system.

# 7 Figure 5.1 : Fronthaul Reference Diagram
The O-RU can have one or more carriers (e.g., multiple antennas, multiple sectors), each corresponding to one eAxC and one RAN scheduler. One RAN scheduler can manage multiple carriers. The O-RU can also have one or more network interfaces between itself and the TU. The O-RU is responsible for associating byte streams from each carrier (antenna/sector) to a unique network interface. The CTI message describes the byte flow across a single network interface. Requirements are only listed for the ORAN components. This document provides the expectation on the transport network. Any parameter quoted as having a value “N” is a variable that is unique per usage. Note that N:1 and N:N in the above figure indicate many to 1, and many to many relations, respectively.

## 5.1 CTI Packet Format
The bit order and Byte order in which all CTI messages are transported shall follow the order shown in Figure 5.2. Figure 5.2 : Order of transmission of CTI messages The O-DU shall support Ethernet II as Layer 2, including the tagging aspects:

# 21  untagged Ethernet

# 22  single tagged (802.1Q) Ethernet

# 23  dual-tagged (802.1ad) Ethernet
Use of Ethernet by the O-DU is mandatory. The choice of tagging is left to the operator. Support of IPv4 as Layer 3 is mandatory in the O-DU. Use of IPv4 or IPv6 by the O-DU is optional. When IPv4 or IPv6 is used, CTI is carried over UDP. The CTI messages are exchanged between the CTI client located in the O-DU and the CTI server located in the TN. A message is either sent from the O-DU to the TN or from the TN to the O-DU. The CTI client and CTI server shall format the CTI messages specified in Figure 5.3 and Table 5.1, Table 5.3, and Table

# 4 5.7.

# 6 Figure 5.3 : CTI Message Format.
The message is either transported over UDP/IP over Ethernet (using IPv4 or IPv6 Ethertype), or directly over

# 8 Ethernet (using O-RAN Ethertype and O-RAN Protocol subtype).
When IP is not used, the fields are (example for 802.1Q):  Ethernet MAC destination address is the MAC address of the CTI message receiver  Ethernet MAC source address is the MAC address of the CTI message sender  802.1Q TPID value 0x8100 which indicates the presence of a VLAN header

# 4  802.1Q PCP is determined by configuration

# 5  802.1Q VLAN ID is determined by configuration
 EtherType has value of 0x9433, dedicated for use by O-RAN.  A 2-byte Protocol subtype. The protocol subtype for CTI is 0x0001. When IP is used, the fields are (example for 802.1Q):  Ethernet MAC destination address is the MAC address of the CTI message receiver corresponding to its IP address (or the interface of the next hop router)  Ethernet MAC source address is the MAC address of the CTI message sender corresponding to its IP address (or the interface of the last hop router)  802.1Q TPID value 0x8100 which indicates the presence of a VLAN header if it is included

# 15  802.1Q PCP is assigned by the operator
 802.1Q VLAN ID is assigned by the operator  EtherType is value 0x0800 (IPv4) or 0x86DD (IPv6)  IPv4 ToS / IPv6 TC is assigned by configuration  IPv4 Protocol Field = UDP ; IPv6 Next Header Field = UDP  the IP source address is the IP address of the sender  the IP destination address is defined by the sender’s OSS System  the UDP source port is defined by the sender’s OSS System, and  the UDP destination port is defined by the sender’s OSS System The contents of the payload (Ethernet or UDP) contain the CTI message elements as described in Table 5.1, followed by an optional CTI Signature, as defined in Section 5.1.5. The optionality of the CTI Signature and how it is configured is for a future release of this specification. For processing simplicity at TN, a CTI message shall not be fragmented over multiple packets or frames. Note that the configuration of L2/L3 parameters for CTI transport is described in O-RAN CTI TMP [4].

### 5.1.1 CTI Message Format

# A CTI message either conveys CTI reports or CTI signaling. In both cases, the message has a common message header.
For CTI report (CTI-Report) message, the CTI message common header is followed by a single report body. For CTI signaling (CTI-Signaling) message, the CTI message common header is followed by single signaling body, as shown in

# 33 Figure 3-4.
Figure 5.4 : Structure of CTI-Signaling Messages and CTI-Report Messages

# A CTI report body may contain one or more report entries. Each report entry describes one CTI flow or one Pattern of one CTI flow. A CTI flow could correspond to a CoS. A CTI report body can describe:
 One or more mobile slots with a single report entry  More than one mobile slots with multiple report entries  One or more flows within a mobile slot by using multiple report entries  One of more flows across multiple mobile slots by using multiple report entries

# 10 The typical packet length would be as follows.
 (22+20+8+8+9+6) 73 bytes for IPv4 over 802.1Q, 1 CTI Type 1 Row with no CTI Type 1 Extension Row and no CTI Signature  (22+20+8+8+9+4*6) 91 bytes for IPv4 over 802.1Q, 4 CTI Type 1 Rows with no CTI Type 1 Extension Row and no CTI Signature  (22+40+8+8+9+4*6) 111 bytes for IPv6 over 802.1Q, 4 CTI Type 1 Rows with no CTI Type 1 Extension Row and no CTI Signature

### 5.1.2 CTI Common Header

# 18 Table 5.1 : CTI Message Common Header
Information Element Size Description CTI Common Header (8 bytes) Protocol Version 4 bits Version number of CTI message Reserved 2 bits Reserved. Sender sets all bits to zero. Receiver ignores all bits

# 0 = CTI signaling body
Header Format 1 bit

# 0 = Signature is not attached
CTI Signature 1 bit

### 5.1.3 CTI Signaling Messages
The CTI signaling message types and the body content each type contains are listed in Table 5.2.

# 6 Table 5.2 : CTI Signaling Messages
CTI Signaling Message Signaling Body Content CTI-Beacon The CTI-Beacon is sent from the O-DU to the TN. Shall contain:  Message Type, Length CTI-Beacon-Ack The CTI-Beacon-Ack is sent from the TN to the O-DU. Shall contain:  Message Type, Length CTI-Keep-Alive The CTI-Keep-Alive is sent between the O-DU and the TN. Shall contain  Message Type, Length TN Ranging Notification The TN ranging notification is sent from the TN to the O-DU Shall contain  Message Type, Length  TN Ranging TLVs

# 8 5.1.3.1 CTI Signaling Body

# 9 Table 5.3 : CTI Signaling Body
Information Element Size Description CTI Signaling Message Type

# 0 = CTI-Beacon

# 3 = TN Ranging Notification (RN)
The values of 4 to 255 are reserved Length Field 2 bytes Length field from the next byte to the end of the TLV field. Parameter Field N Nested TLVs The signaling body is used to send information that is not request information between the CTI server and CTI client. A signaling message shall not span more than one Ethernet frame.

# 13 5.1.3.2 CTI Signaling TLVs

# 14 Table 5.4 : CTI Signaling TLVs
Type Length Value

# 4 TN Ranging Start Time, PTP format, seconds field

# 4 TN Ranging Start Time, PTP format, nanoseconds field

# 3 TN Ranging Maximum Event Duration, in units of 1.024 µs

# 5 Variable N+1 TN Ranging Impacted Sessions

## 5.1 1 TN Ranging Amount of Session IDs

## 5.2 Variable N TN Ranging List of Session IDs
Table 5.4 shows TLVs within their hierarchy. The type expression “x.y.z” would refer to a sub-type value of “z” that is contained within a next higher level TLV with a sub-type of “y” which in turn is contained within a top level TLV of type “x”. The type field and length field are always one byte in size. The value in the length field is the length of the value field. A length of “N” indicates a variable size of the corresponding value field.

# 6 5.1.3.3 Examples of CTI Signaling Messages
Table 5.5 and Table 5.6 illustrate the structure of some example messages.

# 8 Table 5.5: Example of CTI-Beacon-Ack Signaling Message
Name Length (value) [Header] Version nb 4 bits [Header] Reserved 2 bits [Header] Header format 1 bit (value = 0) [Header] CTI signature 1 bit [Header] Sequence number 1 Byte [Header] CTI session ID 6 Bytes [Body] Message type 1 Byte (value = 0x01) [Body] Length field 2 Bytes (value = 0x00) Table 5.6: Example of TN Ranging Notification Signaling Message with 2 CTI Session IDs Name Length (value) [Header] Version nb 4 bits [Header] Reserved 2 bits [Header] Header format 1 bit (value = 0) [Header] CTI signature 1 bit [Header] Sequence number 1 Byte [Header] CTI session ID 6 Bytes [Body] Message type 1 Byte (value = 0x03) [Body] Length field 2 Bytes (value = 0x29) [Body] TN ranging start time, s – T 1 Byte (value = 0x01) [Body] TN ranging start time, s – L 1 Byte (value = 0x04) [Body] TN ranging start time, s – V 4 Bytes [Body] TN ranging start time, ns – T 1 Byte (value = 0x02) [Body] TN ranging start time, ns – L 1 Byte (value = 0x04) [Body] TN ranging start time, ns – V 4 Bytes [Body] TN ranging max event duration - T 1 Byte (value = 0x03) [Body] TN ranging max event duration – L 1 Byte (value = 0x03) [Body] TN ranging max event duration - V 3 Bytes [Body] TN ranging max interruption size - T 1 Byte (value = 0x04) [Body] TN ranging max interruption size – L 1 Byte (value = 0x01) [Body] TN ranging max interruption size - V 1 Byte [Body] TN ranging impacted sessions - T 1 Byte (value = 0x05) [Body] TN ranging impacted sessions – L 1 Byte (value = 0x13) [Body] TN ranging amount of session IDs – T 1 Byte (value = 0x01) [Body] TN ranging amount of session IDs – L 1 Byte (value = 0x01) [Body] TN ranging amount of session IDs – V 1 Byte (value = 0x02) [Body] TN ranging list of session Ids, nb1 – T 1 Byte (value = 0x02) [Body] TN ranging list of session Ids, nb1 – L 1 Byte (value = 0x06) [Body] TN ranging list of session Ids, nb1 – V 6 Bytes [Body] TN ranging list of session Ids, nb2 – T 1 Byte (value = 0x02) [Body] TN ranging list of session Ids, nb2 – L 1 Byte (value = 0x06) [Body] TN ranging list of session Ids, nb2 – V 6 Bytes

### 5.1.4 CTI Report Body

# 4 Table 5.7 : CTI Report Body
Information Element Size Description CTI Report Message Body (9 bytes) CTI Base seconds 32 bits Absolute time value directly derived from the 1588v2 timestamp based on the lower four bytes of the PTP "seconds" field and the full value of the PTP "nanoseconds" CTI Base nanoseconds 32 bits field. The value typically corresponds to a slot boundary on the O-RU antenna interface. Total number of row entries: CTI Type 1 rows + CTI Type 1 Extension rows (if CTI Table Size 8 bits present) + CTI Type 2 Row (if present) CTI Type 1 Row (Repeated, N*6 bytes) User-defined Flow ID, valid range 0x00 to 0xEF. This ID is agreed upon by TN and Flow ID 8 bits O-DU. bits Offset in units of 210 nanoseconds (1,024 µs) that is added to the Base End Time Offset nanoseconds value to obtain when the last bit of the requested bytes will egress unsigned the R3 reference point of the O-RU. Bytes per Flow ID per time interval that cross the O-RU Network (Ethernet) Bytes Requested 24 bits Interface CTI Type 1 Extension Row (6 bytes, optionally included after a CTI Report) Extension Field 8 bits Value = 0xFF bits Offset in units of 210 nanoseconds (1,024 µs) that is added to the Base Start Time Offset nanoseconds value to obtain when the subinterval described by the pattern ID unsigned begins on the network interface of the O-RU (R3 reference point). Pattern ID within a subinterval that begins with start time and ends with the End CTI Pattern ID 24 bits Time Offset as indicated in the previous CTI Report. The subinterval typically corresponds to a 5G slot CTI Type 2 Row (6 bytes, optionally included, once per CTI message) Extension Field 8 bits Value = 0xFE Offset in units of 210 nanoseconds (1,024 µs) that is added to the Base CTI Message Generation 16 bits nanoseconds value to obtain when the message is generated. This can be useful for TN to calculate message jitter. The upper most bit is signed. A “0” value Time signed represents a positive number while a “1” value represents a negative number. This creates a range of +/- 33,5 ms Reserved 24 bits Reserved field A reporting message shall not span more than one Ethernet frame.

# 10 Figure 5.5 : CTI Offset per Row
Figure 5.6 shows the relationship between the CTI base timestamp and the various offsets. The start and end time offsets are always positive values, while the message generation offset may be a positive or negative value. If the value of CTI message generation time is negative, it indicates it is before the base time. Figure 5.6 : Time offsets within the CTI message

# 17 5.1.4.2 CTI Type 1 Row
Each Type 1 row represents a report entry and is used to request some number of bytes at some future time on a specific CTI flow. Each CTI row entry includes a CTI Flow ID, the end time offset and the number of bytes requested. The CTI Flow ID is defined via OSS and is common between the TN and the O-DU. The purpose of CTI Type 1 Row is to convey the Requested Bytes (3 bytes in length) associated with a particular Flow ID and end time. The valid range of the Flow ID is 0x00 to 0xEF. The value 0x00 indicates there is no differentiation between the flows and that the Flow ID does not need to be interpreted by the CTI server. The reserved types range from 0xF0 to 0xFD, allowing the option to use 0xFE to 0xFF to indicate special row extension types.

# A CTI Flow corresponds to a flow of packets that can be identified with a set of unique L2 and/or L3 headers that all
traverse the same O-RU network interface and share the same QoS. Typically, there is one CTI Flow ID per fronthaul flow, as designated by the eAxC header in the eCPRI message. CTI may report each fronthaul flow individually. Alternatively, CTI may aggregate multiple fronthaul flows that are traversing the same O-RU network interface into one CTI Flow ID. The CTI message may also have more than one entry per CTI Flow ID. This allows for a lower frequency of CTI messages to still cover multiple traffic intervals of the flow.

# 6 5.1.4.3 CTI Type 1 Extension Row
The purpose of CTI Type 1 Extension Row is to convey the start time offset of the considered time interval and the fronthaul traffic pattern descriptor (encoded as the CTI Pattern ID), as defined in Table 5.7. The CTI client may include one or multiple Type 1 Extension Rows in a CTI message and shall respect following rules:
- A Type 1 Extension Row shall be included directly after a CTI Type 1 Row and such Type 1 Extension Row
then applies to all previous Type 1 Rows until a previous Type 1 Extension Row or the first Type 1 Row in the message.
- The CTI client shall not include more than one CTI Type 1 Extension Row directly following a given CTI Type

# 14 1 Row.
- The CTI client shall not include a CTI Type 1 Extension Row without a CTI Type 1 Row.
Examples of combinations of CTI Type 1 Rows and CTI Type 1 Extension Rows in a CTI report message are illustrated below: flow with 2 patterns Flow ID End time offset Start time offset Pattern ID Bytes requested Type 1 Row 1 k X Type 1 Extension row j A Type 1 Row 1 k Y Type 1 Extension row j B flows with single pattern Flow ID End time offset Start time offset Pattern ID Bytes requested per flow Type 1 Row 1 k X Type 1 Row 2 k Y Type 1 Extension row j A flows with 2 patterns per Flow ID End time offset Start time offset Pattern ID Bytes requested flow Type 1 Row 1 k W Type 1 Extension row j A Type 1 Row 1 k X Type 1 Extension row j B Type 1 Row 2 k Y Type 1 Extension row j C Type 1 Row 2 k Z Type 1 Extension row j D flow with single pattern, Flow ID End time offset Start time offset Pattern ID Bytes requested multiple intervals Type 1 Row 1 k X Type 1 Extension row j A Type 1 Row 1 l Y Type 1 Extension row k A The Extension Field uses a reserved value of 0xFF to indicate that the current row is an extension row for fronthaul. The start time of the CTI Type 1 Extension Row and the End time offset of its corresponding (preceding) CTI Type 1 Row(s) together define an interval (e.g., a mobile slot) whose traffic pattern may be described by the CTI Pattern ID field in the CTI Type 1 Extension Row. See Figure 5.6 for the time offsets. The use of the Pattern ID is optional: the Type 1 Extension Row may also be used to only communicate the start time of the time interval without details of the traffic pattern, by using CTI Pattern ID value of 0.

# 9 5.1.4.4 CTI Type 2 Row
The purpose of CTI Type 2 Row is to allow the measurement of message latency by the TN. The Type 2 Row is optional and if used it shall only be included at the end of the CTI report body, with or without the presence of a CTI Type 1 Row. The CTI client shall not include more than one CTI Type 2 Row per CTI message. The Extension Field uses a reserved value of 0xFE to indicate that the current row is a special row. The CTI message generation time (see Figure 5.6) is useful to calculate the transmission time of a CTI message and the jitter between the CTI messages. The value is the offset from the CTI base nanoseconds value.

### 5.1.5 CTI Signature
The CTI Signature is an optional feature that prevents a CTI message from a malicious source (which might have cloned an IP source address) from being accepted. A CTI message is sent in the clear followed by a CTI Signature. This permits implementations to use the contents of the CTI message without having to decrypt or decode each packet. For example, a system could be built in which the CTI message is received in real time but the CTI Signature is sampled on a random basis and not verified in real time. The full details of the CTI Signature are for a future version of this specification.

## 5.2 Operation

### 5.2.1 CTI Discovery & Configuration
For each CTI Session ID, several associations are required for proper CTI operation:  the TN shall have the association of CTI Session ID (pertaining to an O-RU interface) with the corresponding TU interface  the TN shall have the association of CTI Session ID with the corresponding CTI client (in O-DU) to which it has to communicate CTI-Beacon-Ack, CTI-Keep-Alive and possibly PON ranging notifications.  the O-DU shall have the association of CTI Session ID with the corresponding CTI server (in TN) to communicate

# 31 CTI reports and keepalives to.
Before the O-RU is installed, it is assumed that the OSS does not know which O-RU is associated with which transmission system (TU, TN). Further, since fronthaul takes a lot of bandwidth on the transmission system, it has to be a provisioned service. This section describes at least two ways that the two systems can learn of each other. In both of these procedures, the transport system comes up and is initialized. This then provides connectivity for the mobile system to come up and initialize. This implies that there is a least enough bandwidth on the transport system to provide M-plane support between the O-RU and O-DU. The next step is to then associate the mobile system with the transport system. The assumption is that the O-RU is an arbitrary unit that gets installed at an O-RU location.

# 3 Figure 5.7 : CTI Manual Discovery

# 4 Proposed procedure:
1. The installation technician interfaces with the OSS, either verbally or through a user interface, and enters identity information for the O-RU interface and TU interface 2. The TN OSS knows or is able to determine the association of the TU with the TN. The OSS system(s) initializes the O-DU and TN. The TN has the association of TU interface with O-RU interface (its CTI Session ID). The O-DU has the association of O-RU with TN (its CTI server) 3. CTI messaging can commence between the O-DU and TN The advantage of this approach is that it is very simple and, depending on how the cross provisioning is performed, does not necessarily require a coupling between the two OSS systems. The disadvantage is that the system is not automated.

# 14 5.2.1.2 Automatic Discovery using the OSS (Informative)
This section is superseded by section 6.2 of O-RAN CTI-TMP [4].

### 5.2.2 Operations
The CTI server and client shall operate as described in Figure 5.8. Figure 5.8 : CTI Configuration and Operational State Machines

# 3 The following operation is illustrated in Figure 5.8.
After necessary initial configuration, which is to be covered in the future Transport Management Plane Specification, a CTI interaction between a CTI client and a CTI server starts by including an exchange of CTI-Beacon message from the O-DU to the TN and its acknowledgement back from the TN to the O-DU. After reception of the CTI-Beacon-Ack message, both sides are operational for CTI. The CTI client and CTI server then interact according to the following: 1. The CTI client periodically sends a CTI-Report message to the CTI server with request information. This occurs no more than one CTI-Report per CTI Nominal message exchange time interval (CTI_NOM). If there is no internal request information, the CTI client shall not send a CTI-Report message to request bytes. The CTI client shall generate a CTI-Keep-Alive message at least once within the CTI Time Keep-Alive (CTI_KA).

# 13 2 The TN captures and processes CTI messages.
The CTI server shall generate a CTI-Keep-Alive message at least once within the CTI Time Keep-Alive (CTI_KA). 3. If the TN does not receive a CTI message (CTI-Report or CTI-Keep-Alive) within the CTI Time Out (CTI_TO), it shall suspend its CTI operation and return to the CTI configuration state. 4. If the O-DU does not receive a CTI-Keep-Alive message within the CTI Time Out (CTI_TO), it shall suspend its CTI operation and return to the CTI configuration state. The contents of the CTI-Report message are generated by the CTI client, which takes its inputs from the O-DU’s uplink scheduling decisions and from other operating entities within the O-DU. The CTI client gathers the uplink grant information from the RAN uplink scheduler over an interval described by the CTI Nominal message exchange time interval (CTI_NOM). This time is configured to be an integral number of mobile slot times. The choice of CTI_NOM shall follow the rules described in section 4.3.3.2. The CTI client should modify the local grant information from the O- DU RAN scheduler to make it represent future bytes to be transmitted over the Ethernet interface with sufficient margin for allowing for prediction uncertainties on the actual generated uplink fronthaul traffic.

## 5.3 Interface to OSS

### 5.3.1 Timers

# 6 Table 5.8 : CTI Timers
Name OSS OSS Min Max Description to TN to O-DU CTI Nominal x x 0,25 5 ms This value, abbreviated as CTI_NOM, is the minimum average interval message ms that a CTI-Report message is sent from the CTI client to the CTI exchange time server. CTI-Report messages may be sent less often. Because of interval queuing in the system, this value has to be interpreted as a rate and not as a spacing between packets. Typical values could be 1–2 ms for LTE, or lower for 5G. CTI Time Keep- x x 3 s This value, abbreviated as CTI_KA, is the maximum time interval Alive between consecutive CTI-Keep-Alive messages between the CTI client and the CTI server. CTI Time Out x x 10 s This value, abbreviated as CTI_TO, is the timeout value that a CTI Keep-Alive message needs to be received by the CTI client (O-DU) or the CTI server (transport system) before that respective system suspends CTI operations and returns to its CTI configuration state. CTI_TO shall be greater than CTI_KA, for example CTI_TO = N * CTI_KA with N being an integer greater than 1, to allow for the loss of one or several keepalives.

### 5.3.2 Summary of Objects (Informative)
Several parameters have to be configured in the O-DU and the TN by their respective management systems for the connectivity of CTI messages and the operation of CTI. The reader is referred to O-RAN CTI TMP [4] for a full list of parameters and the accompanying YANG models.

## 5.4 Examples of the CTI Pattern Descriptor for Fronthaul
A high-speed transport system such as a 10 Gbps PON system can have the ability to schedule bandwidth with the granularity of an 5G OFDMA symbol time which is on the order of 4.5μs to 71μs. However, sending CTI messages at this rate would result in too high a message rate. Further, describing bytes for every single symbol would result in excessively long CTI messages. In order to balance message frequency and length, a compression scheme based on 5G

# 19 TDD/FDD patterns is allowed.
The CTI pattern object model allows one entry in a CTI message to describe multiple transmissions over the network interface that follow a specific pattern. The intended use is to describe the bytes per symbol for each symbol or group of symbols within a mobile slot. The pattern of bytes per symbol within a mobile slot depends upon the 5G use of TDD or

# 23 FDD.
The total byte count for a pattern is always contained in the CTI table entry. If a non-zero pattern ID is used in the CTI reporting, there are two ways to interpret the CTI pattern parameters at the CTI server: Option 1) The CTI client is configured so that the total byte count is equal to the sum of the bytes per event within the pattern. This implies that for each different load in a mobile slot (different total byte count), a different pattern ID is needed. This can be used when the reporting may be coarse and not too many pattern IDs are needed. It is also possible to use a mix of explicit byte values for some symbols and a residual byte count (indicated by a reserved special value) for the other symbols. The absolute bytes for the residual symbols are deduced based on the CTI total byte count and the per-event explicit byte counts (see example 3 below). Option 2) If option 1 has a scalability issue, the alternative is to normalize the amount of bytes in each symbol so that the sum of all symbols is always the same value independently of the total reported byte count. The CTI server can then deduce the actual amount of bytes per symbol by using a multiplier (the reported total byte count divided by the normalized sum). This allows to re-use the same pattern ID for the same relative distribution of bytes across the symbols, by adding an extra calculation step at the CTI server. The choice between option 1) and option 2) is reflected by a dedicated configuration parameter per CTI session ID, so that the CTI client knows how to generate the values and the CTI server knows how to interpret the values.

# 9 Examples
Example 1: FDD pattern of 1 ms slot (n), 14 symbols, 1,000 bytes per symbol and same pattern but with 2,000 bytes per symbol in another 1 ms slot (m)

# 12 Option 1: Absolute event bytes

# 13 For slot n:

# 14  Pattern ID = 1
 Pattern duration = 8 (because 8×125 μs = 1 ms)  Number of events per pattern = 14 (because each symbol is described)

# 17  Event description
o Event multiplier = 14 (because each event is the same within the pattern) o Bytes per event = 1,000 bytes (because there are 1,000 bytes per symbol)  The sum over the symbols corresponds to the CTI total byte count of 14,000 bytes. This is the total number of bytes transmitted during the entire slot time.

# 23 For slot m:

# 24  Pattern ID = 2
 Pattern duration = 8 (because 8×125 μs = 1 ms)  Number of events per pattern = 14 (because each symbol is described)

# 27  Event description
o Event multiplier = 14 (because each event is the same within the pattern) o Bytes per event = 2,000 bytes (because there are 2,000 bytes per symbol)  The sum over the symbols corresponds to the CTI total byte count of 28,000 bytes. This is the total number of bytes transmitted during the entire slot time.

# 33 Option 2: Normalized event bytes

# 34 For slot n:

# 35  Pattern ID = 1
 Pattern duration = 8 (because 8×125 μs = 1 ms)  Number of events per pattern = 14 (because each symbol is described)

# 38  Event description
o Event multiplier = 14 (because each event is the same within the pattern) o Bytes per event = 100 bytes (normalized sum / 14)  The normalized sum (arbitrary choice) is 1,400 bytes. The CTI total byte count is 14,000 bytes. The per-symbol multiplying factor to be used at the CTI server is 10.

# 44 For slot m:

# 45  Same Pattern ID = 1
 The normalized sum is 1,400 bytes. The CTI total byte count is 28,000 bytes. The per-symbol multiplying factor to be used at the CTI server is 20. Example 2 (Option 1): TDD receive pattern of 500 μs slot; 14 symbols; 1,000 bytes on symbols 0, 1, 2, 10, 11, 12; 0 bytes otherwise

# 4  Pattern ID = 2
 Pattern duration = 4 (because 4×125 μs = 500 μs)  Number of events per pattern = 14 (because each symbol is described)

# 7  Event description
o Event multiplier = 3 for symbols 0–2 o Bytes per event = 1,000 bytes for each of the first three symbols o Event multiplier = 7 for symbols 3–9 o Bytes per event = 0 bytes o Event multiplier = 3 for symbols 10–12 o Bytes per event = 1,000 bytes for each of these three symbols o The entry for symbol 13 is optional because the value is 0 bytes.

# 15  The CTI byte count is 6,000 bytes.
Example 3 (Option 1): A 5G 500 μs slot; 200 bytes total of signaling information on symbols 0 and 1; variable but evenly distributed payload on symbols 4 to 7. An event is two symbols. The CTI byte count is 1,000 bytes.

# 19  Pattern ID = 3
 Pattern duration = 4 (because 4×125 μs = 500 μs)  Number of events per pattern = 7 (because each event is described as a pair of symbols)

# 22  Event description
o Event multiplier = 1 for symbols 0 and 1 o Bytes per event = 200 bytes total for the first two symbols o Event multiplier = 1 for symbols 2 and 3 o Bytes per event = 0 bytes o Event multiplier = 2 for symbols 4–7 o Bytes per event = residual average (0xFFFF) o The entry for symbols 8–13 is optional because the value is 0 bytes per symbol.  Residual average = (1,000–200)/2 = 400 bytes per event o The total byte count is 1,000 bytes. There were 7 events. Each event is two symbols. The first event was explicitly described as 200 bytes. The next event was explicitly described as 0 bytes. The next two events where declared as residual averages. The last four events were not explicitly described, so they are implicitly considered to be 0 bytes per event. o Because each event is two symbols, the byte count for symbols 4–7 is 200 bytes per symbol.

## 5.5 Other O-DU Functional requirements

### 5.5.1 Reporting scope
The O-DU shall be able to generate uplink bandwidth reports per O-RU, aggregated over all corresponding RAN schedulers for that O-RU. The O-DU shall be able to generate uplink bandwidth reports per O-RU interface, aggregated over all corresponding RAN schedulers for that O-RU interface. The CTI protocol additionally allows to generate uplink bandwidth reports per fronthaul Flow (Layer 2 / Layer 3 mapping).

### 5.5.2 Reporting accuracy
The reported bandwidth shall be at least equal to the actual upstream U-plane traffic generated by the O-RU (no underestimation). The accuracy of reported time references (Base + Offset) shall be better than 10µs (-5µs/+5µs).

### 5.5.3 O-DU CTI performance
The O-DU shall be characterized according to a CTI message rate category based on its supported CTI_MIN (as defined in section 4.3.3). When an equipment supports a category, all lower numbered categories shall also be supported. The O-DU shall be characterized according to a value of CTI message timing performance (as defined in section 6.2). These parameters shall be exposed to the OSS for configuration and management.

# 6 Time alignment between O-DU and Transport

## 6.1 Timing architecture options
The Fronthaul O-DU is scheduling in the future. The TN has to follow this by granting allocations aligned in time. This requires the timing of both systems to be time synchronized to a common reference for the grants to line up. There are three options to achieve this;  Using GNSS: Both the O-DU and the TN are independently synchronized using a GNSS source. There is no synchronization interaction needed between the O-DU and the TN.  Using IEEE PTPv2 (1588-2008): Both the O-DU and the TN have access to a common GM clock by using PTPv2. The PTP packets are either independently received by O-DU and TN, or the PTP packets are distributed to the TNs via O-DUs (e.g. when the GM resides in the O-DU).  Mix of both: The O-DU uses either GNSS or PTP, while the TN independently uses the other method. Note that the synchronization of the O-RU itself is not influenced by CTI and is out of scope of the CTI specification (see

# 15 O-RAN CUS [2] instead).

## 6.2 Resource allocation alignment
With CTI, the TN scheduler aligns its granting decisions on reporting by RAN schedulers, in order to follow traffic variations (per slot or per group of slots) of O-RUs. The better the time alignment precision of the TN scheduler to the uplink fronthaul traffic from the O-RUs, the lower the need for buffering uplink packets and hence the lower the upstream latency. The precision of aligment depends on two factors, as shown in Figure 6.1; Firstly, the arrival time of the CTI reporting message at the TN. The TN will need some processing time once the message is received before it can apply the updates of bandwidth scheduling to its TUs. This can be expressed as a minimal spacing (called “TN CTI message timing performance”) needed between the arrival time of the CTI message and the start boundary at Ra of the mobile slot N being reported in the message. A given TN equipment is characterized by a value of

# 26 CTI message timing performance.
The arrival time depends on the O-DU generation time, which depends on the necessary processing time after the RAN scheduler decisions were made for the corresponding slot. This can be expressed as the “O-DU CTI message timing performance”, the minimal spacing guaranteed by the O-DU between the generation time of the CTI message and the start boundary at Ra of the mobile slot N being reported in the message. The O-DU shall be characterized by a value of

# 31 CTI message timing performance.
The arrival time also depends on the transmission latency of the CTI message itself (in case of intermediate nodes between

# 33 O-DU and TN).
Figure 6.1 : Timing of CTI message generation by O-DU and reception at TN, limits for TN being able to apply bandwidth updates for the reported mobile slot. If the O-DU CTI message timing performance after subtraction with the maximal CTI transport latency still respects the TN CTI message timing performance, the TN can update the bandwidth for the mobile slot N on time. Note that as long as this condition is met, the jitter on arrival time of the CTI message will have no effect on the bandwidth updates and on the resulting fronthaul uplink latency. If the CTI messages arrive early, they have to be buffered in the TN until they need to be processed for their associated mobile slot (N). The earliest arrival time is just after the O-DU has made scheduling decisions for mobile slot (N), which is in the order of several mobile slot durations before the start of mobile slot (N). If the CTI messages arrive too late at the TN, the TN will only be able to apply the update for slot N in the next (or one of the next) bandwidth update opportunities by the TN, leading to buffering of the traffic of slot N at the TU, and hence an increase of latency. That latency depends on the granularity of TN to apply bandwidth updates per TU, and the previous bandwidth setting of the TN and buffer status of the TU. Secondly, assuming the CTI reporting message does arrive on time at TN, perfect alignment will not be possible due to sources of uncertainty that cannot be influenced or compensated by the O-DU:  Time granularity of TN to send bandwidth allocations.  Variation on Ta3_max per O-RU (based on its category), typically 20µs (see table B-5 in O-RAN CUS [2])  Possible mix of different O-RU categories on the shared distribution networks of the same TN. Note that the difference in propagation distance between different TUs is compensated by time equalization of the TUs by the TN. The actual latency (buffering + propagation) of each TU is brought to the same level, with the furthest TU having the longest propagation and shortest buffering, and the shortest TU having the shortest propagation and the longest buffering. In other words, the time equalization does not introduce an extra delay penalty, but it brings the propagation delay of all TUs to the level of the furthest TU. Figure 6.2 : Time alignment of O-DU scheduler decisions, CTI message generation, CTI message reception, TN scheduler updates, uplink traffic at O-RU R3 reference point. Example for two TUs at different distance from the TN.

# 7 Conclusion

## 7.1 Summary
This document specifies the TC-plane of CTI. TC-plane messages between O-DU and TN allow for the initialisation and operation of a CTI session, and for the exchange of future load requirements so that the TN scheduler can schedule the transport resource pro-actively, reducing the upstream latency of the fronthaul packets compared to a reactive TN scheduling system. The document includes (Chapter 4) a description of the context (topologies of interconnecting O-RUs to O-DUs via TNs aggregating multiple TUs on shared distribution networks), (Chapter 5) the required functions on the O-DU for supporting CTI exchange with TNs, the role of the parameters needed for CTI, the message types and formats, the protocol operation, the list of parameters, ways for associating the O-RU interface with corresponding TN managed entity, and (Chapter 6) the time alignment aspects between O-DU scheduler and TN scheduler.

## 7.2 Open issue list

# 3 (section 5.1.5) Optionality and details of CTI Signature

# 4 In case of congestion in the transport network, analysis of a feedback mechanism and of the use of priorities between

# 19 O-RUs


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG4.CTI-TMP.0-R003-v04.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG4.CTI-TMP.0-R003-v04.00 Technical Specification Transport Management Procedures Specification"
---

## 7.2 Relationships and unicities in the context of encapsulation of CTI flows between CTI servers and CTI
Foreword This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by O-RAN Alliance. Modal verbs terminology In the present document "shall", "shall not", "should", "should not", "may", "need not", "will", "will not", "can" and "cannot" are to be interpreted as described in clause 3.2 of the O-RAN Drafting Rules (Verbal forms for the expression of provisions). "must" and "must not" are NOT allowed in O-RAN deliverables except when used in direct citation.

# 6 Release xx.yy.zz
where: xx the first digit-group is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc. (the initial approved document will have xx=01). yy the second digit-group is incremented when editorial only changes have been incorporated in the document. zz the third digit-group included only in working versions of the document indicating incremental changes during the editing process. The present document describes the Transport Management Procedures for the Cooperative Transport Interface (CTI). CTI is an interface between O-DUs and Transport Nodes of a packet-based transport network that is used to interconnect the O-DUs to a variety of O-RUs. CTI specifically targets transport Nodes that manage a shared point-to- multipoint access network. Intermediate transport nodes (routers and switches) that only manage point-to-point links do not exchange CTI messages with the O-DUs. CTI consists of a Transport Control plane (TC) and a Transport Management (TM). This document specifies the TM Information Model / Data Model and procedures. The TC-plane is described in [1]. The reader is referred to the TC-plane document for a description of the protocol as well as background, context, motivation and topologies with CTI. This document focuses on the management aspect of CTI. The goals are to define the CTI-related configurable parameters at TN and at O-DU, to define a suitable set of YANG modules to capture these parameters, to describe necessary steps in the configuration of the parameters, and to define an auto-discovery method to automate the correlation between TN specific parameters and CTI parameters.

# 5 Specification” , Cable Television Laboratories, Inc

# 18 (DHCPv4)”
[15] IETF RFC 6939 “Client Link-Layer Address Option in DHCPv6” [16] IETF RFC 6991 “Common YANG Data Types” [17] 3GPP TS 32.160 Management and orchestration; Management service template (Release 16) [18] 3GPP TS 32.156 Fixed Mobile Convergence (FMC) Model repertoire (Release 16)

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [2] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP

# 28 TR 21.905 [2].

# 29 New terms used in this document:
 CTI client: a process in the O-DU that exchanges CTI messages with one or multiple CTI servers, e.g. to request a given transport capacity.  CTI server: a process in the Transport Node that exchanges CTI messages with one or multiple CTI clients, e.g. to receive capacity requests.  CTI message sender: CTI client or CTI server generating a CTI message  CTI message receiver; CTI client or CTI server receiving a CTI message

# 37 Generic terms used in this document:
 Mobile slot: a subframe in 3GPP LTE or a slot in 3GPP NR.

# 40 Conventions used in this document:
 The following convention applies any time a bit field is displayed in a figure. The bit field shall be interpreted by reading the figure from left to right, then from top to bottom, with the MSB being the first bit so read and the LSB being the last bit so read.

## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply.

# 7 BWR Bandwidth Reporting

# 8 CM Cable Modem

# 9 CMTS Cable Modem Termination System

# 10 CoS Class of Service

# 11 CO DBA Cooperative DBA

# 12 CTI Cooperative Transport Interface

# 13 DBA Dynamic Bandwidth Allocation

# 14 DHCP Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol

# 15 DM Data Model

# 16 DN Distinguished Name

# 17 DOCSIS Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification

# 18 DP Destination Port

# 19 DSCP Differentiated Services Code Point

# 20 DT Data Type

# 21 EMS Element Management System

# 22 FQDN Fully Qualified Domain Name

# 23 IM Information Model

# 24 IOC Information Object Class
L2 / L3 / L4 ISO/OSI Layer 2 / Layer 3 / Layer 4

# 26 LLID Logical Link ID

# 27 MAC Media Access Control

# 28 MOI Managed Object Instance

# 29 NA(P)T Network Address (and Port) Translation

# 30 NMS Network Management System

# 31 O-CU O-RAN Central Unit

# 32 O-DU O-RAN Distributed Unit

# 33 O-RU O-RAN Radio Unit

# 34 OLT Optical Line Termination

# 35 ONU Optical Networking Unit

# 36 OSS Operations Support System

# 37 PCP Priority Code Point

# 38 PON Passive Optical Network

# 39 QoS Quality of Service

# 40 RAN Radio Access Network

# 3 SF Service Flow

# 4 SMO Service Management and Orchestration

# 5 SN IP subnet

# 6 SP Source Port

# 7 T-CONT Transmission Container

# 8 TC Traffic Class for IPv6

# 9 TC(P) Transport Control (Plane)

# 10 TDM Time Division Multiplexing

# 11 TM(P) Transport Management (Procedures)

# 12 TN Transport Node

# 13 ToS Type of Service

# 14 TPID Tag Protocol Identifier

# 15 TU Transport Unit

# 16 UDP User Datagram Protocol

# 17 UE User Equipment

# 18 VID VLAN ID

# 19 VLAN Virtual LAN

# 4 High Level Description

## 4.1 General CTI Management Architecture

### 4.1.1 Foreword on management domains
This document refers to separate “transport domain OSS” and “RAN domain SMO”, without any implication of ownership of the domains or use of particular processes or protocols in the transport domain OSS. Each domain is responsible for managing its nodes and can do so independently, but for CTI some level of mutual coordination is needed. Note that using two domains in this document does not preclude alternative approaches such as an integrated OSS for both domains, or an overarching orchestrating function that would select the parameters and forward them to the OSS domains.

### 4.1.2 Summary of architecture
As the configuration of CTI parameters in the O-DU is non real-time, it shall be done over the O-RAN O1 interface using NETCONF/YANG. This document does not make assumptions about the management process in the Transport OSS. Several CTI parameters are common for O-DU and TN side and have to be aligned. There is a need for coordination between both operation domains. This document specifies the needs, but does not make assumptions about the process or protocols to ensure such coordination. The only process described in this document is an automated auto-discovery which allows to link a TN specific transport parameter with each individual CTI session ID. This document does not make assumptions about the integration of functional features into physical nodes. For example, the document does not restrict the realization of the RAN domain DHCP server, which can be integrated with the O-DU, can be provided by the transport system, or can be accessed via a relay.

# 23 Figure 4.1 : Management architecture for CTI

### 4.1.3 Parameters to be configured
There are two types of parameters related to CTI:  Parameters to establish L2 or L2 + L3/L4 connectivity for CTI messages between CTI servers and CTI clients, to be configured by Transport OSS and by RAN SMO, and their corresponding YANG models  Parameters for the operation of CTI, to be configured by Transport OSS and by RAN SMO, and their corresponding YANG models

# 5 CTI Management

## 5.1 CTI connectivity parameters and configuration
This chapter describes how to enable CTI connectivity between the CTI servers and CTI clients. It is a conceptual description of the configuration needs and does not specify protocols or methods or sequences of actions for the configuration.

### 5.1.1 Point-point or switched Ethernet connectivity between TN and O-DU

# 7 5.1.1.1 L2 Connectivity parameters
The packets shall follow the Ethernet encapsulation as described in O-RAN CTI TCP [1]. The CTI packets are encapsulated in Ethernet with the invariant value of O-RAN Ethertype (0x9433), so the Ethertype is not configurable. The Ethernet Protocol Subtype (see O-RAN CTI TCP [1])) for O-RAN CTI is also an invariant value but not formally specified yet, so it is made configurable (value 0x1 is proposed in [1]). Note: This version of the document only specifies the use of single (.1Q) VLAN tag for CTI transport and L2 filter parameter. The use of dual VLAN-tag is to be specified in a later version of this document. Both O-DU and TN need to know the corresponding VLAN(s) and MAC addresses of respectively the CTI servers and CTI clients they have to connect to. As mentioned in O-RAN CTI TCP [1], each TN may host multiple CTI servers, each O-DU may host multiple CTI clients, and connectivity between all clients and servers shall be supported. The operator is free to choose how to segment the network with different VLANs, from a single flat model (option A: same VLAN configuration for CTI in the whole network) to differentiation (a VLAN configuration per TN-O-DU pair

# 20 (Option B) or per client-server pair (Option C)).

# 22 Figure 5.1 : Layer 2 interconnection options
Note (not shown in the figure) that an intermediate switch could perform VLAN translation between Transport domain and RAN domain. Note that the YANG model caters for all possibilities by defining a set of connectivity parameters per pair of CTI server

# 26 – CTI client.

# 27 5.1.1.2 Configuration of L2 connectivity parameters
Figure 5.2 : Configuration of Layer 2 connectivity parameters in case of Ethernet switching

# 4 The process involves following steps:
1) [per CTI server] CTI server MAC addr is stored in Transport OSS [per CTI client] CTI client MAC addr is stored in RAN SMO 2) [per CTI server and per CTI client] Transport OSS and RAN SMO exchange CTI server and CTI client MAC addresses from 1), and exchange [per (CTI client;CTI server) combination] the VLAN ID to be used 3) [per CTI client] Transport OSS configures MAC addr of CTI clients and VLAN IDs in TN [per CTI server] RAN SMO configures MAC addr of CTI servers and VLAN IDs in O-DU

### 5.1.2 IP routing connectivity between TN and O-DU

# 14 5.1.2.1 L2 + L3/L4 Connectivity parameters
The packets shall follow the UDP/IP/Ethernet encapsulation as described in O-RAN CTI TCP [1]. The CTI UDP listening port is invariant but not (yet) defined as a well-known port, so it is also still made configurable. Both O-DU and TN need to know the corresponding L2 and L3/L4 parameters to use for communicating with respectively the CTI servers and CTI clients they have to connect to. As mentioned in O-RAN CTI TCP [1], each TN may host multiple CTI servers, each O-DU may host multiple CTI clients, and connectivity between all clients and servers shall be supported. At Ethernet level, each CTI client and CTI server may have its own MAC address, and VLANs are used based on the subnetting at IP level. At IP level, subnetting defines how many IP addresses are used and how the different nodes will be interconnected;
- If all CTI servers and clients in the whole network are part of a single subnet (Option A), each client may use
single IP address (for communicating with all servers), each server may use a single IP addres (for communicating with all clients), and the TNs and O-DUs are connected by point-point links or intermediate switches.
- Alternatively, the network could be split in multiple subnets on a node level, where communication between
subnets happen via an intermediate router. Option B shows an example of one subnet at O-DU side and one subnet at TN side, interconnected by an intermediate router.
- Alternatively, the network could be split in multiple subnets along TN-O-DU combinations. Option C shows
an example of one subnet per O-DU, shared with all TNs. The CTI servers in the TNs support multiple IP addresses (one per subnet) and there is no need for routing between the TNs and O-DUs (e.g. intermediate switch).
- (note that sharing subnets across transport and RAN domains (options A and C) probably only apply to cases
of a single operator managing both domains). At UDP level, a single UDP listening port value is used for all clients, servers and messages. The source port value may be freely chosen. Its value remains the same during a communication session between the CTI client and CTI server, but may be ephemeral from one communication session to the next. Note that the YANG model caters for all possibilities by defining a set of connectivity parameters per pair of CTI server

# 8 – CTI client.

# 13 Figure 5.3 : Layer 3 interconnection options

# 14 5.1.2.2 Configuration of L2 connectivity parameters
Figure 5.4 a, b: Configuration of Layer 2 connectivity parameters in case of IP routing

# 4 The process involves following steps:
1) If subnets are shared between Transport and RAN domains (options A and C in section 5.1.2.1 and Fig 3-2a), the common VLAN IDs shall be coordinated between the Transport OSS and RAN SMO. Otherwise (Option B in section 5.1.2.1 and Fig 3-2b) this step is not needed. 2) [per CTI client] Transport OSS configures VLAN ID to be used for TC-plane [per CTI server] RAN SMO configures VLAN ID to be used for TC-plane The MAC addresses of the next hop is fetched by normal means (ARP) after configuration of L3 parameters (see section 5.1.2.3).

# 13 5.1.2.3 Configuration of L3 connectivity parameters
Figure 5.5 : Configuration of Layer 3 connectivity parameters in case of IP routing

# 13 5.1.2.4 Remarks about layer 3 connectivity
The O-RU and the O-DU need routing table configuration (multiple subnets), this document doesn’t describe this configuration. Additionally, the DHCP relay agent in the first router facing the O-RU has to be be configured with the IP address of the DHCP server in the RAN domain to allow DHCP communication between the DHCP client in the O-RU and the

# 18 RAN DHCP server.
In some subnet cases there could be a router between the TN and O-DU. The configuration of the router is not described in this document. There could also be a NAT (NAPT) between the TN and O-DU. In that case there are a couple of attention points that need to be considered, namely the impact of destination port translation, the need of NAT traversal, etc… This is out of scope of this document.

# 6 CTI procedures
Proper interpretation of CTI messages by the TNs requires a level of cooperation between the CTI server side and CTI client side to guarantee consistency of the parameter values and and correlation between the parameters. Although it is possible to rely on manual correlation actions, it is beneficial to automate the process. This section describes an automated autodiscovery method of the correlation of the CTI session IDs with the TU/TN transport parameter they correspond to. The same method can also be used to determine which CTI server has to be associated per given CTI session ID.

## 6.1 Correlations to be performed
For proper operation of CTI, several parameters need to be consistent at both TN and at O-DU sides. This means that the same values have to be consistently configured at both CTI server and CTI client side by their respective management systems. The method or protocols for this coordination between Transport OSS and RAN SMO are out of scope of this document. Static parameters such as timer values, CTI Flow ID filters, CTI Pattern IDs etc… can be coordinated at OSS level independently of the topology of the O-RUs and transport nodes. Dynamically allocated parameters such as IP addresses of CTI servers and CTI clients are dependent of the interconnection topology of TNs and O-DUs, but not of the topology of the O-RUs. They can be coordinated at OSS level. The topology of O-RU deployments requires the following correlations for every CTI session ID, based which TU interface each O-RU interface is connected to (see Figure 6.1 for a logical view of the correlations. This figure is conceptual only and does not represent how or where the correlation have to be executed (in the TN or in its management system)):  The TN needs to determine which transport parameter has to be linked to the corresponding CTI session ID (combined with a CTI flow ID if used) in the CTI report messages (note that multiple transport parameters could be configured on a TU interface, only one pertains to a combination CTI session ID + CTI flow ID). CTI flow IDs are only unique per CTI client (different clients could use the same Flow ID for different meanings), so the CTI client shall be taken into account in the correlation.  The TN needs also to keep track of which CTI client is reporting the CTI session ID, to send messages related to that CTI session ID. A single CTI client may report about multiple CTI session IDs.  At O-DU side, the CTI client needs to correlate which CTI session ID to use for each O-RU interface it reports about. This is a one-to-one relationship. For reporting between different flows on the same CTI session ID the O-DU also needs to be aware of the class of service associated to each flow, which in turn is represented by a given set of L2/L3/L4 filter parameters reflecting how uplink traffic is tagged by the O-RU. This tagging could be different in different transport networks (a single O-DU can in principle manage O-RUs in multiple transport networks), so the CTI server (reflecting the TN) shall be taken into account in the correlation.  The O-DU also needs to know to which CTI server to send the reports for a given CTI session ID. Multiple reports could have to be sent to the same CTI server. It is recommended to use the physical MAC address of the O-RU port over which the O-RU has M-plane connectivity as the value of the CTI session ID. Figure 6.1 : O-RU topology-dependent correlations for CTI session IDs (conceptual only, for YANG elements please see Chapter 6)

## 6.2 Auto Discovery for correlation of CTI session ID to transport
parameter in TN This optional method is a means to automate the correlation of CTI session ID with the required transport parameter on the corresponding TU (or TU UNI) on the corresponding TU or TU UNI. It avoids relying on manual correlation during the installation phase of the O-RU to a given TU interface. The method is based on re-using the DHCP exchange from the O-RU that is performed during start up of the O-RU to achieve IP connectivity for the M-plane defined in O-RAN MP [4]. Both cases of layer 2 and layer 3 connectivity are very similar, using the DHCP relay agent in the TN to add the agent circuit ID as the key for the correlation. The only differences are the use of giaddr by the DHCP relay agent in case of layer 3 connectivity, and the mandatory use of IP in the C-plane and U-plane traffic in case of layer 3 connectivity. If the M-plane uses IPv4, the DHCP relay agent adds Option 82 as per IETF RFC 3046 [11], which contains the agent circuit ID (sub option code 1), which is a string uniquely identifying the TU interface on which the DHCP request was received. If the M-plane uses IPv6, the DHCPv6 relay agent adds Option 18 as per IETF RFC 3315 [12], which contains the agent circuit ID. Additionally, the possible use of DHCP Option 60 as per IETF RFC 2132 [13] and DHCP Option 124 as per IETF RFC3925 [14] by the O-RU is specified in O-RAN MP [4]. Even if such options are not used, the O-RU interface will be discovered by the RAN SMO during the autoconfiguration of the O-RU through M-plane exchanges. Once the O-RU is configured, the RAN SMO can correlate the agent circuit ID with the O-RU interface ID based on the allocated IP address. In turn the O-RU interface is uniquely linked to a CTI session ID. The correlation [agent circuit ID, CTI session ID] can then be notified back to the transport OSS, which pushes the correlation to the corresponding

# 25 TN that terminates the given TU.
It is recommended to use the unique MAC address of the O-RU interface as the CTI session ID. For IPv4 this is communicated to the DHCP server in the field “chaddr” of DHCP option 82. For IPv6 it can be communicated as “client link layer address” in DHCPv6 Option 79 as per IETF RFC 6939 [15]. If the O-RU does not use Option 79 in DHCPv6, there needs to be a preconfigured association [O-RU ID; MAC address] in the RAN SMO. The auto discovery method applies to cases where the O-RU shares the same physical interface for the M-plane and for the CUS-plane. The method does not apply to O-RUs using different interfaces for the CUS-plane. The following sections 6.2.1 and 6.2.2 supersede section 3.2.1.2 in O-RAN CTI TCP [1].

### 6.2.1 Switched Ethernet connectivity between O-RU and O-DU
Figure 6.2 : Auto-discovery method with Layer 2 interconnectivity The sequence of steps is as follows (example for IPv4); 1) O-RU starts by issuing DHCP discovery for its M-plane communication. The DHCP relay agent in TN adds option 82 to DHCP Discovery. Note that at start up the O-RU can be unaware of the configured M-plane VLAN ID. It can scan multiple VLAN IDs (and untagged) until receiving an answer from the O-DU side. Only DHCP messages with VLAN ID matching the configured M-plane VLAN ID will be passed through (with option 82 stamped) by the TN, all other messages are discarded by the TN. 2) O-RU gets M-plane IP configuration (by DHCP), starts up and gets configured by M-plane:
- Either options 60 or 124 are used that can fully identify O-RU ID
- Or the O-RU ID is discovered during O-RU configuration by the RAN SMO via the M-plane
3) Two associations are extracted and stored in the RAN SMO:
- RAN DHCP server extracts the association [assigned M-plane IP address; Agent Circuit ID; chaddr]
- If O-RU ID is present in DHCP options 60 or 124, the RAN domain DHCP server extracts the
association [assigned M-plane IP address; O-RU ID]. If the DHCP options 60 or 124 are not used, the association is extracted by RAN SMO.
- If DHCP server is hosted in the O-DU, the information is communicated to the RAN SMO over the

# 22 O1 interface
4) RAN SMO correlates [Agent Circuit ID; chaddr] with [O-RU ID] based on M-plane IP address. 5) RAN SMO configures O-DU (via O1) so that CTI client uses CTI session ID = chaddr for this O-RU ID. 6) RAN SMO informs Transport OSS with association [Agent Circuit ID; CTI session ID] 7) Transport OSS is able to determine the corresponding TN from “Access-Node-Identifier” in Agent Circuit ID, and then configures association (Circuit ID; CTI session ID) to that TN.

### 6.2.2 IP routing connectivity between O-RU and O-DU
Figure 6.3 : Auto-discovery method with Layer 3 interconnectivity The sequence of steps is as follows (example for IPv4); 1) O-RU starts by issuing DHCP discovery for its M-plane communication. The DHCP relay agent in TN adds option 82 to DHCP Discovery, adds “giaddr”, converts the message from broadcast to unicast, and forwards it to RAN DHCP server. Note that this requires that the DHCP relay agent in the TN is pre-configured with the IP address of the RAN DHCP server, as mentioned in section 5.1.2.4. Note that at start up the O-RU can be unaware of the configured M-plane VLAN ID (if it is used between TU and TN). The O-RU can scan multiple VLAN IDs (and untagged) until receiving an answer from the O-DU side. The TN will only process DHCP messages with a VLAN ID matching the configured M-plane VLAN ID, all others are discarded by the TN. The remaining steps 2 – 7 are identical to the steps in section 6.2.1. Note that the same approach can be taken in case the transport domain would be responsible to the IP configuration of the O-RUs (DHCP server hosted in the transport domain). This scenario is not worked out in this document as it is considered to be unlikely.

## 6.3 Auto discovery for correlation of CTI session ID to CTI server
There needs to be a pre-configuration at Transport OSS of Agent cicuit ID (only the relevant fields) to Server (Server Name and MAC address in case of L2 connectivity for CTI). This association needs to be communicated to the RAN

# 21 SMO.
After the auto discovery of 6.2, the RAN SMO knows the Agent circuit ID per O-RU (interface), and the CTI session ID per O-RU (interface). It can then associate the CTI session ID of that O-RU (interface) to its corresponding CTI server based on the TN-identifying portion of the Agent circuit ID.

## 6.4 Performing correlations without Auto Discovery method
In this case the correlations are not facilitated by an automated exchange of messages, and involve a manual configuration during installation of each O-RU, and several extra coordination steps between Transport OSS and RAN

# 29 SMO;
1) the correlation of CTI session ID to O-RU (interface) needs to be done at installation time, by manually populating the association of an O-RU (interface) identifier to a TU (interface) indentifier in the Transport OSS. It is then up to the Transport OSS to correlate the O-RU (interface) further to the transport parameter based on the TU (interface) identifier, and if needed to ask for the associated CTI session ID to the RAN SMO (in case the O-RU identifier that is visible to the Transport operator would be another identifier than the CTI session

# 35 ID).
2) the correlation of CTI session ID to a given CTI server needs an extra level of coordination between the Transport OSS and the RAN SMO. Based on the manual association in step 1), the Transport OSS can deduce the corresponding CTI server for a given CTI session ID based on the TU identifier (which is linked to a given TN user-facing port, which in turn is controlled by a given CTI server). The Transport OSS then communicates the association of CTI session ID (or the O-RU identifier) with the associated CTI Server name (and MAC address in case of L2 connecivity for CTI) to the RAN SMO.

# 7 CTI Information Model

## 7.1 General structure of the Information Model
The model in this document applies to the O-DU. Part of this model is common for the TN, but the specification of the IM of the TN is out of scope of this document. TN considerations (IM and DM) in this document are provided as informational examples. This version of the document provides the CTI IM itself and a partial integration of the CTI IM into the broader O-DU IM (see Figure 7.6). The full integration into the broader O-DU IM (choice of IOC as attachment point for CTIConfig IOC) is subject to further study and optimization in a future version of the document. The logical structure of the CTI IM at O-DU is determined by following facts;  When an O-DU supports the optional CTI functionality, it may have one or multiple CTI clients. Each O-DU has a separate “CTI Function” IOC, that contains one or multiple CTI clients. Each CTI client has a separate

# 13 IOC “CTIClient” that shall be configured.
 For each O-DU, the possible CTI server(s) that its CTI client(s) connect to shall be represented by a MOI

# 15 “CTIServer”.
 In one O-DU, each CTI client may have connectivity to multiple remote CTI servers, and each such CTI server may have connectivity to multiple CTI clients in the O-DU (in other words a full mesh of CTI servers and CTI clients is supported).  Each pair of CTI server and CTI client shall use a “CTIConnProfile” for the exchange of CTI messages between the pair. A CTIConnProfile may be used by multiple server-client pairs.  CTISessions of a given CTI client are grouped per corresponding CTI Server into a “CTISessionGroup”.  CTIFlow(s) are configured per CTI server and e be referred by “CTIFlowsInUse” in one or multiple CTI sessions (of one or multiple CTI clients).  “CTISession” for each CTIClient and “CTIFlowsInUse” for each CTISession shall also be configured before the CTI functionality starts to work.  There are network-wide definitions of CTI patterns. The same pattern has the same meaning for all CTI servers and CTI clients. Depending on its position in the YANG structure, a parameter may be unique for the whole node, or only within a smaller context in the node allowing for multiple values to be configured inside the same node. Additionally, if a parameter needs to be unique across the whole network, this consistency shall be assured by the SMO system to configure the same value in all its managed nodes.

# 34 CTI Session ID:
The CTI Session ID shall be unique across the whole network. Recommendation is to use the MAC address of the O-

# 36 RU interface it is linked to.
The CTI session ID element is used as the cornerstone in the TN and O-DU YANG models.

# 39 CTI Session Group:
In each CTI Client the CTI sessions are regrouped per associated CTI Server.

# 42 O-RU ID or O-RU interface ID:
They are used locally in the O-DU, so in principle only unique within one O-DU. But it is more practical if it is unique across the whole network.

# 45 They are not used in the TN.

# 11 Pattern characteristics linked to a CTI Pattern ID:
From O-DU point of view a Pattern ID shall represent the same pattern characteristics no matter on which TN an O-RU is connected to. The Pattern ID may therefore be unique at O-DU node level. It is up to the RAN SMO to configure consistent values across the different O-DUs. From TN point of view a same Pattern ID could be re-used by accident by two different RAN networks (sets of O-DUs) while representing different pattern characteristics. The CTI Pattern ID is therefore defined at a per-CTI client level in the TN, allowing to make such differentiation.

# 19 L2, L3, L4 Parameters for CTI connectivity:
As mentioned in section 5.1, different sorts of connectivity may be used between pairs of clients and servers. The use of L2, L3 and L4 parameters are part of the network-wide planning. In the O-DU the parameters are kept in the CTI Client, CTI Server, and CTI connectivity profile. The CTI client keeps its MAC address (in case of Ethernet connectivity). The CTI Server keeps its connectivity type, its MAC address (in case of Ethernet connectivity) or its host (in case of UDP/IP connectivity). The CTI connectivity profile may be used between one or multiple pairs of CTI Client and CTI Server and keeps its connectivity type, the VLAN tag in case of Ethernet connectivity or the VLAN tag in case of UDP/IP connectivity, and the client host (in case of UDP/IP connectivity). A similar approach could be taken in the TN to group connectivity parameters per pair of CTI server and CTI client, see

# 33 CTI timers
It is assumed that there is no difference in timer values throughout the network, their values shall be unique.

# 36 UDP listening port
When UDP/IP is used for CTI transport between a CTI client and a CTI server, all messages between all CTI servers and all CTI clients over all networks shall use the same destination port value. Without a well-known IANA port, a single value shall be consistently configured in all TN and O-DU nodes.

# 41 CTI versions
Each TN could support one or more versions, each O-DU may support one or more versions. The supported versions are a list structure in the O-DU and in the TN. Each CTI client shall know what versions are supported by a given CTI server, and vice versa. Hence the CTI version to be used is defined per CTI client in the TN, per CTI server in the O-

# 45 DU.
Please note there is no direct version negociation mechanism in CTI between a CTI client and a CTI server, it is up to the management to select the appropriate version to be used. Ethertype and Protocol subtype values when CTI directly encapsulated in L2 The values for the O-RAN Ethertype and CTI Protocol Subtype are invariant over all networks.

## 7.2 Relationships and unicities in the context of encapsulation of CTI flows between CTI servers and CTI clients
The attributes needed to determine the CTI encapsulation for the CTI sessions contained in one CTI session group are included in the related CTI client, CTI server, and CTI connectivity profile IOCs. Figure 7.1 : Connectivity example of single Connectivity profile per (client, server) pair

# 12 (eg UDP/IP)
Figure 7.2 : Connectivity example of multiple (client, server) pairs in single Connectivity profile

# 16 (eg Ethernet with 1 VLAN per TN)
Figure 7.3 : Connectivity example of multiple (client, server) pairs in single Connectivity profile (eg Ethernet for some servers, UDP/IP for other servers) Figure 7.4 : Connectivity example of multiple (client, server) pairs in single Connectivity profile

# 7 (eg Ethernet with same VLAN for all TNs)

## 7.3 Relationships and unicities in the context of CTI sessions, CTI
flows, CTI Patterns The attributes needed to determine the identification fields in the CTI report (session ID, flow ID and pattern ID) for a given session are included in the related CTI session, CTI server, and CTI pattern IOCs.

# A CTI pattern may be included in CTI messages associated to any CTI flow of any CTI session without the need for explicit configuration per CTI flow or CTI session. This CTI message field is assumed to be generated by the CTI client
on the fly just like other dynamic variable fields (bandwidth, time, etc.). Therefore the CTI session IOC is not represented as a pointer in other IOCs. Figure 7.5 : example with multiple CTI sessions, CTI flows, CTI Patterns

## 7.4 CTI IM for O-DU

### 7.4.1 Imported and associated information

# 7 Table 7.1: imported and associated information
Label reference Local label 3GPP TS 28.622 , IOC, ManagedElement ManagedElement 3GPP TS 28.622 , IOC, Top Top

### 7.4.2 Relationships at O-DU CTI Client

# 11 @startuml

# 13 Class ManagedElement <<InformationObjectClass>>

# 14 Class GNBDUFunction <<InformationObjectClass>>

# 15 Class CTIFunction <<InformationObjectClass>>

# 16 Class CTIConfig <<DataType>>

# 17 Class CTIClient <<InformationObjectClass>>

# 18 Class CTIServer <<DataType>>

# 19 Class CTIFlow <<DataType>>

# 20 Class CTIConnProfile <<DataType>>

# 21 Class CTISessionGroup <<DataType>>

# 22 Class CTISession <<DataType>>

# 23 Class CTIFlowsInUse <<DataType>>

# 24 Class CTIPattern <<DataType>>

# 25 Class L2Filter <<DataType>>

# 26 Class L3and4Filter <<DataType>>

# 27 Class CTIClientServerStatus <<DataType>>

# 30 ManagedElement *-- "*" GNBDUFunction: <<names>>

# 31 GNBDUFunction *-- "0..*" CTIFunction: <<names>>

# 32 CTIFunction *-- "0..*" CTIClient: <<names>>

# 33 CTIFunction *--> "0..*" CTIPattern

# 4 CTIClient *--> "0..*" CTISessionGroup

# 5 CTIClient *--> "0..*" CTIConfig

# 6 CTIClient *--> “0..*” CTIClientServerStatus

# 8 CTIClientServerStatus --> "0..*" CTIServer

# 10 CTIServer *--> "0..*" CTIFlow

# 12 CTIFlow *--> “0..*” L2Filter

# 13 CTIFlow *--> “0..*” L3and4Filter

# 15 CTISessionGroup *--> "0..*" CTISession

# 16 CTISessionGroup "0..*" --> "1" CTIServer

# 17 CTISessionGroup "0..*" --> "1" CTIConnProfile

# 19 CTISession *--> "0..*" CTIFlowsInUse

# 21 CTIFlowsInUse "0..*" --> "1" CTIFlow

# 23 @enduml

### 7.4.3 Inheritance

# 3 @startuml

# 4 Abstract class TOP

# 5 /' general class '/

# 7 Class CTIFunction <<InformationObjectClass >>

# 8 Class CTIClient <<InformationObjectClass >>

# 10 TOP<|-- CTIFunction

# 11 TOP<|-- CTIClient

# 13 @enduml

# 17 Figure 7.7 : Inheritance in CTI IM

### 7.4.4 Class and Type definitions

# 20 7.4.4.1 CTIFunction <<InformationObjectClass>>
This IOC represents the root level of CTI client configuration.

# 22 Rules for configuration:
Each O-DU GNBDUFunction that supports CTI has at least one CTIFunction instance.

# 25 Table 7.2: CTIFunction IOC
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable ctiActivateOnOdu M T T F T ctiPattern (DT) M T T F T ctiServer (DT) M T T F T ctiConnProfile (DT) M T T F T

# 27 7.4.4.2 CTIClient <<InformationObjectClass>>
This IOC represents per-CTI client-wide characteristics (one O-DU may have multiple CTI clients) valid for all its CTI sessions.

# 31 Rules for configuration:
One CTI client could have different connectivity types to different CTI servers.
- Whenever the CTI client has at least one Ethernet connectivity with some CTI server, the CTI client MAC
address shall be configured, otherwise the client can’t be linked to a physical interface on the O-DU and the

# 3 CTI connectivity wouldn’t not work.
- If all CTI connectivities of the CTI client are based on UDP/IP, it is assumed the client hostname (see
“CTIconnProfile” DT) shall be sufficient to deduce the physical interface on the O-DU, and the CTI client

# 6 MAC address does not need to be configured.
- One CTI client may communicate to multiple CTI Servers. For each [CTI client, CTI server] pair it is
independently possible to activate or deactivate the exchange of CTI messages.

# 10 Table 7.3: CTIClient IOC
Support Attribute name Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable ctiClientInfo M T T F T ctiClientMacAddr M T T F T ctiClientServerStatus (DT) M T T F T ctiConfig (DT) M T T F T ctiSessionGroup (DT) M T T F T

# 13 7.4.4.3 CTIClientServerStatus <<DataType>>
This DT groups attributes that describe the status of the exchange of CTI messages between a given CTI Client and a given CTI Server.

# 16 Rules for configuration:
Each CTIClientServerStatus instance describes one pair of CTI Client – CTI Server, hence refers to only one CTI Server. There shall be one instance for each Server that this Client communicates with.

# 19 Monitoring:
The ctiClientServerConnStatus reflects the status of the CTI keep-alive exchange between the client and a given server and is read-only. “True” signifies that the keepalives are received as expected from the given server. “False” signifies that keepalives from the given server have been not been received for longer than the time out duration (ctiTo).

# 24 Table 7.4: CTIClientServerStatus DT
Support Attribute name Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable ctiClientServerActivate M T T F T ctiClientServerConnStatus M T F F T ctiServerRef M T T F T

# 26 7.4.4.4 CTIConfig <<DataType>>

# 28 This DT groups generic CTI client configuration attributes.

# 30 Rules for configuration:
At least one of attributes “subtype” (if CTI is transported over Ethernet) and “UDP port” (if CTI is transported over

# 32 UDP/IP over Ethernet) shall be configured:
* subtype shall be configured if there is any Layer 2 CTI connectivity of the considered CTI client to some CTI server. If there is no such Layer 2 CTI connectivity it does not need to be configured. * UDP port shall be configured if there is any UDP/IP CTI connectivity of the considered CTI client to some CTI server. If there is no such UDP/IP CTI connectivity it does not need to be configured. Both shall be configured when different CTI servers use different encapsulations.

# 7 Table 7.5: CTIConfig DT
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable ctiReportRateCategory M T F F T ctiMessageTimingPerfor M T F F T mance supportedCtiVersions M T F F T minNotificationAdvance O T F F T Time ctiKa M T T F T ctiTo M T T F T protocolSubtype M T T F T ctiListeningUdpPort M T T F T

# 9 7.4.4.5 CTISessionGroup <<DataType>>
This DT regroups all (one or multiple) CTI sessions of the parent CTI Client per corresponding CTI Server (in one TN). In other words there is one CTI Session group per [CTI client, CTI server] pair. See figures 1,2A,2B,3.

# 13 Rules for configuration:
Each CTISessionGroup refers to one CTIServer and to one CTIConnProfile. One CTIConnProfile shall be referred from multiple CTISessionGroups. During configuration, when adding a CTI session to a CTI session group it shall be verified that the CTI session pertains to the CTI server associated with the CTI session group. During configuration, connection type of CTIServer and CTIConnProfile that are referred to by the CTISessionGroup shall be the same (see configuration rule at CTIConnProfile).

# 21 Table 7.6: CTISessionGroup DT
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable ctiServerRef M T T F T ctiConnProfileRef M T T F T ctiSession (DT) M T T F T

# 24 7.4.4.6 CTISession <<DataType>>
This DT represents per-CTI session-specific characteristics (a session runs between a given CTI client and a given CTI server).

# 29 Rules for configuration:
The CTI session ID used in the CTI messages e be configurable while being globally unique in the network. The recommended type for identifying the CTIsession by its ID is the MAC address of the corresponding O-RU interface. The CTI session ID may either represent an O-RU or an O-RU interface. The corresponding attribute (O-RU ID or O- RU interface ID) shall be configured. The unicity of CTI session ID per O-RU ID or per O-RU interface ID shall be checked in the O-DU (across the O-DU). The CTI session ID attribute is linked to an O-RU (or O-RU interface) and should be Invariant (any new O-RU should be configured as a new instance of the DT, not as a change of an existing instance). The enforcement of the Invariant nature shall be provided by the application level.

# 10 Table 7.7: CTISession DT
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable ctiSessionId M T T T T oRuId M T T F T oRuInterfaceId M T T F T ctiNominalReportMsgInt M T T F T erval ctiReportMessagingUseO M T T F T fType1Ext ctiFlowsInUse (DT) M T T F T

# 12 7.4.4.7 CTIServer <<DataType>>
This DT represents per-CTI server characteristics (one O-DU may interact with multiple CTI servers on multiple TNs) .

# 16 Rules for configuration:
Server information may be chosen freely by operator (string). If connectivity type to this CTI Server is set to “Ethernet”, then the CTI Server MAC address shall be configured. If connectivity type is set to “UDPIP”, then CTI Server host shall be configured. In that case the MAC address of the next hop should be obtained by ARP and there is no need to configure the CTI Server MAC address. The DOCSIS Server Info is not currently defined and only mentioned as optional placeholder. It is an optional attribute. The CTI Server MAC address attribute is linked to an O-DU instance and should be Invariant (any new CTI Server should be configured as a new instance of the DT, not as a change of an existing instance). The enforcement of the Invariant nature shall be provided by the application level.

# 27 Table 7.8: CTIServer DT
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable ctiServerId M T T F T ctiServerInfo M T T F T connectivityType M T T F T ctiServerMacAddr M T T T T ctiServerHost M T T F T ctiEnable M T T F T supportedCtiVersions M T T F T ctiReportMessagingUseO M T T F T fType2 ponServerInfoUseNotifi M T T F T cationsFromThisServer docsisServerInfo O T T F T ctiFlow (DT) M T T F T

# 3 7.4.4.8 CTIFlow <<DataType>>
This DT represents per-CTI flow characteristics as defined on a given CTI server, and shall be used by one or multiple

# 6 CTI sessions with that CTI server.

# 8 Rules for configuration:
If filter type is set to “Ethernet”, then the configuration of Layer2Filter shall be used. If this configuration is missing, the function does not work (the CTI client does not know which Flow ID to use in the CTI messages for a given fronthaul flow with these Layer 2 characteristics). If filter type is set to “UDPIP”, then the configuration of Layer3and4Filter shall be used. If this configuration is missing, the function does not work (the CTI client does not know which Flow ID to use in the CTI messages for a given fronthaul flow with these Layer 3 / Layer 4 characteristics).

# 16 Table 7.9: CTIFlow DT
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable ctiFlowId M T T F T filterType M T T F T layer2Filter (DT) M T T F T layer3and4Filter (DT) M T T F T

# 19 7.4.4.9 Layer2Filter <<DataType>>
This DT represents a set of Ethernet-level traffic filter parameters in a given CTI server, to be associated to a CTI flow.

# 22 Rules for configuration:

# A Layer 2 Filter consists of a set of one or more attributes. Each attribute that is configured is considered in the filter. At least one attribute e be configured.

# 26 Table 7.10: Layer2Filter DT
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable source-mac M T T F T destination-mac M T T F T ethertype M T T F T pcp M T T F T vlan-id M T T F T

# 4 7.4.4.10 Layer3and4Filter <<DataType>>
This DT represents a set of UDP/TCP and IP-level traffic filter parameters in a given CTI server, to be associated to a

# 6 CTI flow.

# 8 Rules for configuration:

# A Layer 3 and Layer 4 Filter consists of a set of one or more attributes. Each attribute that is configured is considered in the filter. At least one attribute e be configured.

# 12 Table 7.11: Layer3and4Filter DT
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable source-address M T T F T source-prefix M T T F T destination-address M T T F T destination-prefix M T T F T dscp M T T F T source-port-start M T T F T source-port-end M T T F T desintation-port-start M T T F T destination-port-end M T T F T ipv4-protocol M T T F T ipv6-traffic-class M T T F T ipv6-flow M T T F T ipv6-next-header M T T F T

# 14 7.4.4.11 CTIFlowsInUse <<DataType>>
This DT represents the characteristics of each CTI flow that is used in a given CTI session (between a given CTI client and a given CTI server).

# 18 Rules for configuration:
If flow differentiation is used inside a given CTI session (each flow is associated with a given L2 or L3/L4 filter), each flow in use needs configuration of the associated attributes listed below, including a reference to the corresponding CTI flow (ctiFlowRef). If there is no differentiation between flows in a given CTI session (and hence no filtering), there is only one flow and all corresponding CTI messages shall carry “0x00” as the flow ID value. There is still a need to configure the associated attributes listed below, except that there is no need to reference a specific CTI flow (no need to configure ctiFlowRef).

# 4 7.4.4.12 CTIConnProfile <<DataType>>
This DT represents a group of encapsulation parameters for exchange of CTI messages between a given CTI client on the O-DU and a given CTI server on a TN. All CTI messages between a given CTI client and a given CTI server shall always use the same encapsulation values. But a given CTI client may use different encapsulations for different CTI servers. This is why the VLAN tag and client local IP addr are defined at level of CTIConnProfile DT and not at level of CTIclient IOC. The MAC address of the CTI client on the other hand is assumed to be unique for all its connectivities, and is defined at the level of CTIclient IOC.

# 12 Rules for configuration:
The connectivity type of a given CTIConnProfile instance shall match the connectivity type of the CTI server to which the CTI session group using the CTIConnProfile is associated with. This requires a check during configuration of the

# 15 CTISessionGroup;

# 16 Step 1; CTIConnProfile is created
Setp 2; CTI Session Group is created and refers to a given CTI server and to the CTIConnProfile. Validation is needed to ensure that the connectivity type of the CTIConnProfile matches the connectivity type of the CTI Server referred by the CTI Session Group. If it doesn’t match, this CTI Session Group cannot be created. If connectivity type is set to “Ethernet”, then the connectivity shall use VLAN Tag for L2. If that attribute is not configured, the connectivity does not work. If connectivity type is set to “UDPIP”, then the connectivity shall use VLAN Tag for L3 and L4, and CTI client host. If these attributes are not configured, the connectivity does not work.

# 26 Table 7.13: CTIConnProfile DT
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable ctiConnProfileId M T T F T connectivityType M T T F T vlanTagForL2 M T T F T vlanTagForL3and4 M T T F T ctiClientHost M T T F T

# 29 7.4.4.13 CTIPattern <<DataType>>
This DT represents the characteristics of a given pattern ID. They are valid O-DU-system wide.

# 32 Rules for configuration:
The pattern ID is an integer number (up to 32 bits). If the pattern reflects a well-known TDD symbol sequence, it is recommended to include the 3GPP slot format number in the ID (see 3GPP TS38.213 Table 11.1.1-1). The same Pattern ID shall represent the same content in any CTI client of any O-DU in the network. In case there is no use of TDD pattern information, the CTI messages shall carry the Pattern ID value 0 and there is no need to configure the CTIPattern class.

# 7 Table 7.14: CTIPattern DT
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable patternId M T T F T patternDuration M T T F T patternEvents M T T F T patternEventMultipler M T T F T patternEventBytes M T T F T patternNormalization M T T F T

### 7.4.5 Attribute definitions

# 13 Table 7.15: Attributes definition
Attribute Name Documentation and Values Type and Properties (format & unit, allowed values, reserved values) CTIFunction IOC At least 1 instance per O-DU GNBDUFunction ctiActivateOnOdu Activation of CTI functionality on this O- Type: Boolean DU Multplicity: 1 isOrdered: N/A Unit: none isUnique: N/A Allowed values: N/A defaultValue: N/A Reserved values : N/A isNullable: False CTIconfig DT Only 1 instance per CTI Client ctiReportRateCategory Capability of O-DU to send CTI Type: Integer (Uint8) messages (Category of CTI_MIN). Multiplicity: 1 isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: N/A Unit: none isNullable: False Allowed values: 1..5 Reserved values : N/A ctiMessageTimingPerfo Capability of O-DU to quickly send CTI Type: Integer (uint8) rmance messages. Multiplicity: 1 isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: N/A Unit: 20 µs isNullable: False Allowed values: 1..255 Reserved values : N/A supportedCtiVersions Supported CTI versions on this O-DU. Type: Integer (uint8) Starts with value 1. Multiplicity: 1..15 isOrdered: True isUnique: True defaultValue: N/A isNullable: False Unit: none Allowed Values: 1 .. 15 Reserved values : 0, 16..255 minNotificationAdvance PON ranging min notification advance Type : Integer (Uint16) Time time. If PON ranging is used by one or Multiplicity: 0..1 many TNs, this parameter indicates isOrdered: N/A how soon all CTI clients of this O-DU isUnique: N/A need that information. defaultValue: N/A isNullable: False Unit: ms Allowed Values: 1 .. 65 535 Reserved values : N/A protocolSubtype 2-Byte field when L2 encapsulation of Type : Integer (Uint8) CTI messages Multiplicity: 0..1 isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: 0x1 Unit: none isNullable: False Allowed values: 0x1 Reserved Values: (not defined by WG4 yet) ctiListeningUdpPort Chosen unique value for all nodes in Type : Integer (Uint16) the network. Multiplicity: 0..1 If a well-known port gets assigned by isOrdered: N/A IANA to CTI, that value shall be used. isUnique: N/A If there is no UDP/IP communication for defaultValue: N/A CTI on this O-DU, this value does not isNullable: False need to be configured. Unit: none Allowed values : any unassigned port Reserved Values: already assigned port values by IANA. ctiKa This value (Keep Alive timer) is the Type : Integer (Uint8) maximum time interval between Multiplicity: 1 consecutive CTI-Keep-Alive messages isOrdered: N/A between the CTI client and the CTI isUnique: N/A server. defaultValue: N/A isNullable: False Unit : 0,1 s Allowed values : 1..255 (recommended : 30) Reserved Values :N/A ctiTo This value (Time Out timer) is the Type : Integer (Uint8) timeout value that a CTI-Beacon-Ack Multiplicity: 1 message needs to be received by the isOrdered: N/A CTI client (O-DU) or the CTI server isUnique: N/A (transport system) before that defaultValue: N/A respective system suspends CTI isNullable: False operations and returns to its CTI configuration state. Shall be > N x CTI Keep-alive value, with N≥2 Unit : 0,1 s Allowed values : 1..255 (recommended: 100) Reserved Values : N/A CTIClient IOC Multiple instances possible per O- DU ctiClientInfo Information about this server (free Type: String format) Multiplicity: 1 isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: N/A Unit: none isNullable: False Allowed Values: N/A Reserved Values: N/A ctiClientMacAddr MAC address of CTI client Type : string with pattern constraints as per RFC 6991 [16] Unit : none multiplicity: 0..1 Allowed values : see RFC 6991 [16] isOrdered: N/A Reserved Values : N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: N/A isNullable: False CTIClientServerStatus Multiple instances possible per CTIClient ctiServerRef CTI server ID being referred to Type: string Multiplicity: 0 .. * isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A Unit: N/A defaultValue: N/A Allowed Values: existing CTI Server ID isNullable: False Reserved Values: N/A ctiClientServerActivate Activate CTI connectivity between Type : Boolean client/server pair multiplicity: 1 isOrdered: N/A Unit : none isUnique: N/A Allowed values : true, false defaultValue: N/A Reserved Values :N/A isNullable: False ctiClientServerConnStat Reflects CTI connectivity status of Type : Boolean us keep-alives between client/server pair multiplicity: 1 isOrdered: N/A Unit : none isUnique: N/A Allowed values : true, false defaultValue: N/A Reserved Values :N/A isNullable: False CTISessionGroup DT Multiple instances possible per CTI client ctiServerRef CTI server ID being referred to Type: string Multiplicity: 1 isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A Unit: N/A defaultValue: N/A Allowed Values: existing CTI Server ID isNullable: False Reserved Values: N/A ctiConnProfileRef CTI connectivity profile ID being Type: string referred to Multiplicity: 1 isOrdered: N/A Unit: N/A isUnique: N/A Allowed Values: existing CTI defaultValue: N/A connectivity profile ID isNullable: False Reserved Values: N/A CTISession DT Multiple instances possible per CTI Session Group ctiSessionId Unique reference to TU or TU interface Type: string following MAC address format Multiplicity: 1 isOrdered: N/A Unit : none isUnique: N/A Allowed values: N/A defaultValue: N/A Reserved Values: N/A isNullable: False oRuId Unique reference to O-RU linked to CTI Type: string following format: mfg- session ID name_model-name_serial-num Multiplicity: 0..1 isOrdered: N/A Unit : none Allowed values: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: N/A Reserved values: N/A isNullable: False oRuInterfaceId Unique reference to O-RU interface Type: string following format: mfg- linked to CTI session ID name_model-name_serial- num_macaddr Multiplicity: 0..1 isOrdered: N/A Unit : none isUnique: N/A Allowed values: N/A defaultValue: N/A isNullable: False Reserved values: N/A ctiNominalReportMsgInt This value is the minimum average Type: Integer (Uint8) erval interval that is set for a CTI-Report message to be sent from the CTI client Multiplicity: 1 to the CTI server. CTI_NOM is selected isOrdered: N/A per CTI Session ID based on mobile isUnique: N/A slot length, TN CTI rate category, O-DU defaultValue: N/A rate category. isNullable: False CTI-Report messages may be sent less often. Because of queuing in the system, this value should be interpreted as a rate and not as a spacing between packets. Typical values may be 1–2 ms for LTE, or lower for 5G. Unit: 0,25 ms Allowed Values: 1..20 Reserved Values: 21..255 ctiReportMessagingUse Indicates whether to add extension Type: Boolean OfType1Ext Type 1 for CTI reports of this CTI Multiplicity: 1 session isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: N/A isNullable: False Unit: none Allowed Values: True, False Reserved Values: N/A CTIServer DT Multiple instances possible per O- DU ctiServerId Id of the given server Type: string Multiplicity: 1 Unit: none isOrdered: N/A Allowed Values: N/A isUnique: N/A Reserved Values: N/A defaultValue: N/A isNullable: False ctiServerInfo Information about this server (e.g. Type: String operator, type, …. Free format) Multiplicity: 0..1 isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: N/A Unit: none isNullable: False Allowed Values: N/A Reserved Values: N/A connectivityType Indicates type of connectivity between Type : ENUM any CTI client and this CTI multiplicity: 1 server (Ethernet or UDP/IP/Ethernet) isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A Unit : none defaultValue: N/A Allowed values : Ethernet, UDPIP isNullable: False Reserved Values : N/A ctiServerMacAddr (if connectivityType = Ethernet) MAC Type: String with pattern address of CTI server (to be used in constraints CTI messages in L2 connectivity) multiplicity: 0..1 isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: N/A Unit: none isNullable: False Allowed Values: all valid MAC addr Reserved Values: N/A ctiServerHost (if connectivityType = UDPIP) CTI Type: string with pattern server described as IP host (IPv4, IPv6 constraints or FQDN to be used for DNS) multiplicity: 0..1 isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: N/A Unit: none isNullable: False Allowed Values: all valid hosts Reserved values: N/A ctiEnable Indicates whether CTI communication Type: Boolean is to be enabled to this CTI server multiplicity: 1 isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: N/A Unit: none isNullable: False Allowed Values: True, false Reserved Values: N/A supportedCtiVersions Supported CTI versions on this CTI Type: Integer (Uint8) Server Multiplicity: 1..15 isOrdered: True isUnique: True defaultValue: N/A Unit: none isNullable: False Allowed Values: 1..15 Reserved Values: 0, 16..255 ctiReportMessagingUse Indicates whether to add extension Type: Boolean OfType2 Type 1 for CTI messages with this CTI multiplicity: 1 server isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: N/A isNullable: False Unit: none Allowed Values: True, False Reserved Values: N/A ponServerInfoUseNotifi Indicates whether O-DU does interpret Type: Boolean cationsFromThisServer PON notifications from this CTI server. multiplicity: 0..1 If not, such received messages may be isOrdered: N/A dropped. isUnique: N/A defaultValue: N/A Only needs to be configured for CTI isNullable: False servers inside PON-based TNs Unit: none Allowed Values: True, False Reserved Values: N/A docsisServerInfo Only needs to be configured for CTI Type: String servers inside DOCSIS-based TNs multiplicity: 0..1 isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: N/A isNullable: False CTIFlow DT Multiple instances possible per CTI session ctiFlowId CTI Flow IDs correspond to a set of Type: Integer (Uint8) matching frame and packet classifiers, multiplicity: 1 the matching transport ID (DOCSIS isOrdered: N/A Service Flow ID or PON T-CONT) isUnique: N/A when taken together with CTI session defaultValue: N/A ID, as well as the mobile flow identifier. isNullable: False Unit: none Allowed Values: 0 .. 0xEF Reserved Values: 0xF0..0xFF filterType Indicates type of filter between a given Type : ENUM CTI client and a given CTI multiplicity: 1 server (Ethernet or UDP/IP/Ethernet) isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A Unit : none defaultValue: N/A Allowed Values : Ethernet, UDPIP isNullable: False Reserved Values: N/A layer2Filter (if filterType=Ethernet) Type: Layer2Filter (DT) Multiplicity: 0..1 Unit: N/A Allowed Values: N/A Reserved Values: N/A layer3and4Filter (if filterType=UDPIP) Type: Layer3and4Filter (DT) Multiplicity: 0..1 Unit: N/A Allowed Values: N/A Reserved Values: N/A source-mac Layer 2 filter parameter, from the Type: String with pattern perspective of upstream packets to TU constraints ingress. multiplicity: 0..1 isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: N/A Unit: none isNullable: False Allowed Values: all valid MAC addr Reserved Values: N/A destination-mac Layer 2 filter parameter, from the Type: String with pattern perspective of upstream packets to TU constraints ingress. multiplicity: 0..1 isOrdered: N/A isUnique: True (per CTI flow) defaultValue: N/A Unit: none isNullable: False Allowed Values: all valid MAC addr Reserved Values: N/A ethertype Layer 2 filter parameter, from the Type: Integer (Uint16) perspective of upstream packets to TU multiplicity: 0..1 ingress. isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: N/A isNullable: False Unit: none Allowed Values: all valid ethertypes Reserved Values: N/A pcp Layer 2 filter parameter, from the Type: Integer (Uint8) perspective of upstream packets to TU multiplicity: 0..1 ingress. isOrdered: N/A isUnique: True defaultValue: N/A isNullable: False Unit: none Allowed Values: range 0..7 Reserved Values: all others vlan-id Layer 2 filter parameter, from the Type: Integer (Uint16) perspective of upstream packets to TU multiplicity: 0..1 ingress. isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: N/A isNullable: False Unit: none Allowed Values: 1..4094 Reserved Values: 4095 source-address Layer 3 filter parameter, from the Type: union string (IPv4) & string perspective of upstream packets to TU (IPv6) with pattern constraints ingress. multiplicity: 0..1 isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: N/A Unit: none isNullable: False Allowed Values: valid IP addr Reserved Values: N/A source-prefix Layer 3 filter parameter, from the Type: union string (IPv4) & string perspective of upstream packets to TU (IPv6) with pattern constraints ingress. multiplicity: 0..1 isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: N/A Unit: none isNullable: False Allowed Values: valid IP addr Reserved Values: N/A destination-address Layer 3 filter parameter, from the Type: union string (IPv4) & string perspective of upstream packets to TU (IPv6) with pattern constraints ingress. multiplicity: 0..1 isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: N/A Unit: none isNullable: False Allowed Values: valid IP addr Reserved Values: N/A destination-prefix Layer 3 filter parameter, from the Type: union string (IPv4) & string perspective of upstream packets to TU (IPv6) with pattern constraints ingress. multiplicity: 0..1 isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: N/A Unit: none isNullable: False Allowed Values: valid IP addr Reserved Values: N/A dscp Layer 3 filter parameter, from the Type: Integer (Uint8) perspective of upstream packets to TU Multiplicity: 0..1 ingress. isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: N/A isNullable: False Unit: none Allowed Values: range 0..63 Reserved Values: N/A source-port-start Layer 4 filter parameter, from the Type: Integer (Uint16) perspective of upstream packets to TU multiplicity: 0..1 ingress. isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: N/A isNullable: False Unit: none Allowed Values: 0..65535 Reserved Values: N/A source-port-end Layer 4 filter parameter, from the Type: Integer (Uint16) perspective of upstream packets to TU multiplicity: 0..1 ingress. isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: N/A isNullable: False Unit: none Allowed Values: 0..65535 Reserved Values: N/A desintation-port-start Layer 4 filter parameter, from the Type: Integer (Uint16) perspective of upstream packets to TU multiplicity: 0..1 isOrdered: N/A ingress. isUnique: N/A defaultValue: N/A isNullable: False Unit: none Allowed Values: 0..65535 Reserved Values: N/A destination-port-end Layer 4 filter parameter, from the Type: Integer (Uint16) perspective of upstream packets to TU multiplicity: 0..1 ingress. isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: N/A isNullable: False Unit: none Allowed Values: 0..65535 Reserved Values: N/A ipv4-protocol Layer 3 filter parameter, from the Type: Integer (Uint8) perspective of upstream packets to TU multiplicity: 0..1 ingress. isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: N/A isNullable: False Unit: none Allowed Values: Reserved Values: N/A ipv6-traffic-class Layer 3 filter parameter, from the Type: Integer (Uint8) perspective of upstream packets to TU multiplicity: 0..1 ingress. isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: N/A isNullable: False Unit: none Allowed Values: Reserved Values: N/A ipv6-flow Layer 3 filter parameter, from the Type: Integer (Uint32) perspective of upstream packets to TU multiplicity: 0..1 ingress. isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: N/A isNullable: False Unit: none Allowed Values: range 0..1 048 575 Reserved Values: N/A ipv6-next-header Layer 3 filter parameter, from the Type: Integer (Uint8) perspective of upstream packets to TU multiplicity: 0..1 ingress. isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: N/A isNullable: False Unit: none Allowed Values: Reserved Values: N/A CTIFlowsInUse DT Multiple instances possible per CTI session ctiFlowRef CTI flow ID being referred to Type: Integer (Uint8) multiplicity: 0..1 isOrdered: N/A Unit: none isUnique: N/A Allowed Values: existing CTI Flow ID defaultValue: N/A isNullable: False Reserved Values: N/A timeIntervalPerReport Rate of reporting for given Flow ID in Type: Integer (Uint8) given CTI session ID. Max = CTI_NOM multiplicity: 1 of given CTI session ID isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: N/A isNullable: False Unit: 0,25 ms Allowed Values: CTI_NOM or integer portion (e.g. 1/2, ¼, …) of CTI_NOM Reserved Values: N/A maxT34Latency The maximum latency provides a Type: Integer (Uint16) guideline on the latency bound multiplicity: 1 expected for the CTI flow. The latency isOrdered: N/A bound is defined as one-way and is isUnique: N/A referenced in O-DU between the O-RU defaultValue: N/A and the O-DU (= T34max) isNullable: False Unit: 5 µs Allowed Values: 1..65 535 Reserved Values: N/A minLoad Minimum value (equivalent #Bytes per Type: Integer (Uint8) reported time interval) to be used in the multiplicity: 0..1 “Bytes requested” field for the CTI flow isOrdered: N/A in use. isUnique: N/A defaultValue: 0 isNullable: False Unit: Mbit/s Allowed Values: 0..255 Reserved Values: N/A extraLoadCplane Extra value (equivalent #Bytes per Type: Integer (Uint8) reported time interval) to be added to multiplicity: 0..1 the load field for the CTI flow in use. isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: 0 isNullable: False Unit: Mbit/s Allowed Values: 0..255 Reserved Values: N/A CTIConnProfile DT Multiple instances possible per O- DU ctiConnProfileId Id of a given Connectivity Profile Type: String multiplicity: 1 Unit: N/A isOrdered: N/A Allowed Values: N/A isUnique: N/A Reserved Values: N/A defaultValue: N/A isNullable: False connectivityType: identical to same attribute in CTIServer DT vlanTagForL2 (if connectivityType = Ethernet) Type: ietf multiplicity: 0..1 (priority-tagged is not recommended) isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: N/A isNullable: False Unit: None Allowed Values: 1..4094 Reserved Values: 4095 vlanTagForL3and4 (if connectivityType = UDPIP) Type: ietf multiplicity: 0..1 isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A Unit: none defaultValue: N/A Allowed Values: 0..4094 isNullable: False Reserved Values: N/A ctiClientHost (if connectivityType = UDPIP) Type: inet:host multiplicity: 0..1 isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A Unit: none defaultValue: N/A Allowed Values: valid IP addresses isNullable: False Reserved Values: N/A CTIPattern DT Multiple instances possible per O- DU patternId Uniquely identifies a CTI pattern. The Type: Integer (Uint32) intended use is to describe the bytes multiplicity: 1 per symbol for each symbol or group of isOrdered: N/A symbols within a mobile slot. isUnique: N/A defaultValue: N/A isNullable: False Unit: none Allowed Values: 0x000001 .. 0x00FFFFFF Reserved Values: 0 (means no pattern info) patternDuration The length of a single mobile slot time, Type: Integer (Uint8) in units of 125 µs multiplicity: 1 isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A Unit: 125 µs defaultValue: N/A isNullable: False Allowed Values: 1..255 Reserved Values: N/A patternEvents This is the number of events per Type: Integer (Uint8) pattern. An event is typically a symbol multiplicity: 1 or a group of symbols within a slot. For isOrdered: N/A example, if a slot contained 14 isUnique: N/A symbols, there could be 14 events with defaultValue: N/A each being one symbol or 7 events isNullable: False with each being 2 symbols. Events are defined to be equally spaced within a duration time with the bytes being delivered at the end of the event. Unit: none Allowed Values: 1..255 Reserved Values: N/A patternEventMultipler Number of sequential events that have Type: Integer (Uint8) the same byte count. The multiplier multiplicity: 1..14 variable and the byte count variable are isOrdered: N/A used in pair to describe an event. isUnique: N/A defaultValue: N/A isNullable: False Unit: none Allowed Values: 1..255 Reserved Values: N/A patternEventBytes Number of bytes per event. A byte Type: Integer (Uint16) count is allowed to be 0 bytes. A multiplicity: 1..14 special value of 0xFFFF indicates a isOrdered: N/A residual average, where: isUnique: N/A defaultValue: N/A Residual average = isNullable: False [ CTI byte count - sum(explicit bytes described) ] / sum(events without explicit bytes described) Unit: none Allowed Values: 0 .. 0xFFFF Reserved Values: N/A patternNormalization Indicates whether CTI Pattern Event Type: Boolean Bytes are normalized or not normalized multiplicity: 1 to a fixed value for the sum of all Event isOrdered: N/A Bytes per report isUnique: N/A defaultValue: N/A isNullable: False Unit: none Allowed Values: True, False Reserved Values: N/A

# 8 CTI YANG Data Model
This document specifies the CTI YANG Data Model to be used in the O-DU This document also proposes a CTI YANG Data Model to be used in a TN from a generic perspective, with a specific declination for PON OLT and DOCSIS CMTS. The TN YANG Data Model is provided here as information for further distribution towards the corresponding external bodies for their consideration (Broadband Forum for PON, Cable Labs for DOCSIS).

# 10 The YANG Data Model follows a modular approach.
Structures that are used in the O-DU and that are also proposed for consideration at the TN are defined in module o- ran-cti-common. The specific structures for the O-DU are defined in module o-ran-o1-ctiOdu. Together, the modules o-ran-cti- common and o-ran-o1-ctiOdu specify CTI for the O-DU side and fit into the wider O-DU YANG model. The specific structures for the TN are defined in module o-ran-cti-tn-generic, which contains no TN technology specific structures. Technology-specific structures are defined in the separate modules o-ran-cti-pon and o-ran- cti-tn-docsis respectively. A TN then has to combine o-ran-cti-common, o-ran-cti-tn-generic and one tn-technology module for a full description of CTI YANG, which in turn has to fit into the wider TN YANG model.

# 21 Figure 8.1 : CTI YANG modules and relationships

## 8.1 CTI YANG Data Model Related to O-DU

### 8.1.1 Overview
The o-ran-o1-ctiOdu module imports the o-ran-cti-common module and uses its structures. The o-ran-o1-ctiOdu module only describes the CTI aspect of the O-DU as stand-alone module (together with o- ran-cti-common). It shall be imported in the wider O-DU YANG structure for those O-DUs that support CTI. For O- DUs that do not support CTI there is no change in their YANG structure. 8.1.2 o-ran-cti-common The o-ran-cti-common module defines common structures for the other modules, rather than commonly configured values. The actual configured values have to be coordinated between the different modules (by the RAN SMO and transport OSS) for consistency. As an example, a given CTI flow ID may be re-used in multiple CTI sessions between a CTI server and a CTI client, but then represents the same Ethernet / UDPIP filters. Obviously its filter definition shall be consistent between both TN and O-DU sides. Figure 8.2 : Schematic overview of parameters in module o-ran-cti-common 8.1.3 o-ran-o1-ctiOdu The CTIClient IOC is augmented in the GNBDUFunction IOC of the O-DU. The CTIConfig IOC follows the IM of Figure 7.6, but its integration with augmentation in the YANG file is for further study. O-ran-o1-ctiOdu uses several typedefs and groupings from o-ran-cti-common. Figure 8.3 : Schematic overview of parameters in module o-ran-o1-ctiOdu

# 3 (including using parameters from module o-ran-cti-common in blue)

## 8.2 CTI YANG Model Related to TN (informative)

### 8.2.1 Overview

# 7 The module o-ran-cti-o-tn-generic imports the module CTI common.
The modules o-ran-cti-o-tn-pon and o-ran-cti-o-tn-docsis import the module CTI common. The module o-ran-cti-o-tn-generic is augmented with elements of the corresponding technology-specific module (o-ran-cti-o-tn-pon or o-ran-cti-o-tn-docsis) For TNs that do not support CTI there of course is no change in their YANG model. 8.2.2 o-ran-cti-common

# 4 See 5.1.2
8.2.3 o-ran-cti-tn-generic It includes generic elements, some of which imported from O-RAN-CTI-COMMON CTI server-client pair; groups connectivity parameters at L2 or L2 + L3/L4 to communicate CTI messages between a given CTI client and a given CTI server. This element is augmented with either PON-specific or DOCSIS specific parameters. CTI client name: unique identifier of a given CTI client. The format is free but the values should be aligned between both Transport OSS and Mobile SMO. For example it could be based on concatenation of O-DU Identifier (mfg name_model name_serial nb) + “_” + 2 characters. CTI client; contains elements per client on an O-DU, amongst which the patterns as defined in that CTI client. The client also contains its unique connectivity parameters: in case of L2 connectivity the client’s MAC address, and in case of UDP/IP connectivity the client’s host (IP address or FQDN). CTI server name: unique identifier of a given CTI server. The format is free but but the values should be aligned between both Transport OSS and Mobile SMO. For example it could be based on the concatenation of Access Node Identifier (as used in DHCP Agent Circuit ID) + “_” + 2 characters. The use of Access Node Identifier allows for autodiscovery as described in section 6.3. CTI server; contains elements per server, amongst which the CTI Session IDs managed by that server. The server element also includes a list of server-client pairs. This allows to define CTI connectivity at per client level for this server. CTI Sessions: Per CTI session ID the related parameters like CTI client, CTI server, Nominal time interval for the messages, technology-specific session info, and which flows are in use for that CTI session. Each CTI session ID is linked to a single CTI client and single CTI server, and the CTI connectivity parameters can be deduced from the pair server-client. CTI flows in use: indicates for a given CTI session ID which CTI flows are being used. There is always at least one flow; if there is no classification into different flows this is represented by CTI Flow ID=0x00. Each flow in use also contains the portion of the T34max value that can be spent as latency in the transport system. It also includes technology-specific elements, which are augmented via either o-ran-cti-tn-pon or o-ran-cti-tn-docsis;

# 32 Technology-specific session configuration info:
For PON refers to the Channel Termination, ONU (or ONU UNI) for a given CTI session ID. This allows to collect all CTI session IDs per Channel Termination (for generating PON ranging notifications) and to link a given CTI session ID to the T-CONT corresponding to that ONU (or ONU UNI). For DOCSIS refers to the Cable Modem MAC address

# 37 Technology-specific flow configuration info
For PON this is the T-CONT associated to given CTI session ID + CTI flow ID, to which Cooperative DBA has to allocate bandwidth based on the reports for that CTI flow ID in that CTI session ID, and the associated filter configuration parameters. For DOCSIS this is the Service Class Name and L2 flow or UDP/IP flow configuration parameters associated to given

# 42 CTI session ID + CTI flow ID.
Technology-specific client info: selects whether to enable PON ranging notification, and defines (per CTI client) how much time in advance the messages have to be sent. Technology-specific connectivity parameters (e.g. interface on the TN) are added directly into the server-client pair grouping. Figure 8.4 : Schematic overview of parameters in module o-ran-cti-o-tn-generic

# 6 (including imported parameters from module o-ran-cti-common (in blue),
including parameters augmented from modules o-ran-cti-tn-pon (in yellow) and o-ran-cti-tn-docsis (in green)) Most of the parameters are the equivalent of the same parameters at O-DU side. TN specific parameters are:

# 10 Table 8.1: TN specific parameters
Name Data format Unit Value range Reserved Description values (default value) maxPortionT34Latency Uint16 5 µs 0 .. 65535 N/A The portion of the maximum T34 latency allocated to TN-TU segment (used to optimize the operation of the TN node) 8.2.4 o-ran-cti-tn-pon Figure 8.5 : Schematic overview of parameters in module o-ran-cti-tn-pon

# 8 Table 8.3: DOCSIS-based TN specific parameters
Name Data format Unit Value range Reserved Description values (default value) (parameter used in TN, or O-DU, or both) transport technology Identity N/A “docsis-transport” N/A Indicates which transport technology- base specific module to load in the TN Yang module associatedScn String (len 1..15) (**) N/A (**) N/A Corresponding DOCSIS service class name to tie DOCSIS Service Flow for the combination CTI Flow ID & CTI session ID cmMacAddress String N/A N/A Corresponding Cable Modem MAC address for a CTI session ID (DOCSIS-based TN) Note: parameters marked with (**) are from Cable Labs YANG modules in CL CM-SP-MULPI [10]


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG4.TS.CONF.0-R004-v13.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG4.TS.CONF.0-R004-v13.00"
---

### ALD Communications

#### ALD Communications Test

- Test Description and Applicability
This scenario is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY for a O-RU equipped with a RET port (regardless of whether this is a raw RS-485 port or OOK modem coupled internally to antenna connector(s)).  This scenario shall be performed against each ALD port exposed by the O-RU.  This test is OPTIONAL for O-DU tests.

The purpose of the test is to validate the ALD communications protocol and operation of the O-RU. The following functions are validated in this test.

- Proper transmission of the content if RPC <ald-communication> towards desired ALD port
- Proper calculation of FCS
- Proper application of basic transparency to content to be transmitted
- Proper addition of start / stop flags
- Proper reception of payload injected to ALD port
- Proper removal of start / stop flags
- Proper application of basic transparency to content received from ALD port
- Proper validation of FCS in data received from ALD port.
This scenario corresponds to the following clause in [3]:

- 14.4 Operational aspects of Antenna Line Devices
- Test Entrance Criteria
- The minimum functions of the TER described in clause 2.1 that support validation of the M-Plane are operational, configured and connected to the O-RU.
- It is assumed, that O-RU being a subject of this conformance test scenario is proven to be compliant to the following specifications:
- ISO/IEC 13239:2002 “High-level data link control (HDLC) procedures”
- ETSI TS 125.460 “UTRAN Iuant Interface: General aspects and principles”
- ETSI TS 125.461 ”UTRAN Iuant Interface: Layer 1”
- ETSI TS 125.462 ”UTRAN Iuant Interface: Signalling Transport”
- ETSI TS 125.466 “UTRAN Iuant Interface: Application Part”
- The O-RU uses a 9.6 kbps data rate on its ALD port(s) for transmission and reception, regardless of connector supported by particular ALD port.
- Test Methodology
As O-RU does not verify correctness of the payload that is exchanged between Netconf Client and ALD (except FCS for traffic coming from ALD) - any payload can be used in test vector, under condition, that test vectors are compliant to referenced above set of specification documents (e.g. length is not smaller than minimum size of real message).

RS-485 sniffer / injector is needed for this test. Such a device shall be connected either to O-RU’s RS-485 port or to RS-485 port of Smart BiasT connected to O-RU with coaxial cable (depending on O-RU construction)

Unless not specified otherwise – RS-485 sniffer / injector shall be connected to ALD port corresponding to record “port-id” used in RPC <ald-communication>.

In case O-RU exposes ALD port as antenna port, test environment should utilize Smart BiasT for conversion between OOK modulation at antenna port and RS-485 signaling that RS-485 sniffer / injector can handle. DC voltage for Smart BiasT device shall be provided by O-RU through antenna feeder.

If not specified otherwise, for test purposes RS-485 sniffer / injector is connected to ALD port which will be addressed in RPC <ald-communication> within the scenario.

As this test is intended to verify O-RU functions and there will be no real ALD connected – compliance to the required HDLC message structure is required, whilst the AISG payload can be artificial (unless otherwise specified in test case). The O-RU does not verify if messaging is correct, hence, for test simplicity and ease of test result verification, artificial test vectors can be used.

- Initial Conditions
- The test procedure described in clause 3.1.4.1 is successfully completed.
- Procedure
- Test Case 1: Transmission towards ALD (positive scenario)
Scope: CRC calculation, transparency algorithm application, start / stop flag addition, datagram transmission using desired ALD port

- NETCONF Client sends regular RPC <ald-communication> message containing bytes 0x7D and 0x7E in “ald-req-msg” record.
- O-RU calculates FCS, adds it to datagram provided in record “ald-req-msg”, applies basic transparency (replaces every occurrence of byte “0x7E” with two bytes “0x7D 0x5E”, respectively, replace byte “0x7D” with two bytes “0x7D 0x5D”) and add start/stop flags 0x7E.
- O-RU sends payload calculated in step 2 through ALD port mentioned in record “port-id” of RPC.
- RS-485 sniffer / injector receives payload sent by O-RU. Received payload is subject of analysis for scenario success / failure classification
- Test Case 1 Test Requirement (expected result)
Content received by RS-485 listener / injector is compared with content of RPC <ald-communication>.

a) payload shall be sent by desired ALD port of O-RU

b) FCS shall be properly calculated

c) basic transparency shall be properly applied

d) start / stop flags shall be added to payload that has been received by RS-485 sniffer / injector

Test scenario is considered as completed with success in case all mentioned above conditions are satisfied. Any deviation means test scenario is failed.

- Test Case 2: Reception from ALD (positive case)
Scope: datagram reception, start / stop flag detection and removal, transparency algorithm applications, CRC verification

NOTE: Test case 2 shall be performed just after Test case 1 so that content injected by RS-485 sniffer / injector is considered by O-RU as ALD’s response to message sent towards ALD in Test case 1. Timing between Test case 1 and Test case 2 shall follow 3GPP specifications mentioned above.

- RS485 sniffer / injector sends properly formatted (start / stop flags, FCS and min / max payload size) message containing strings “0x7D 0x5E” and “0x7D 0x5D” towards O-RU’s ALD port used in Test case 1.
- O-RU receives the content.
- O-RU removes start / stop flags, performs basic transparency (replaces “0x7D 0x5E” with “0x7E” and “0x7D 0x5D” with “0x7D”), makes sure if FCS is correct according content of datagram.
- O-RU sends “ald-resp-msg” towards NETCONF Client.  In the response parameter “status” contains value “ACCEPTED”.
- Test Case 2 Requirement (expected result)
Content received by NETCONF Client is compared with content injected by RS-485 sniffer / injector.

a) record “ald-port” shall indicate proper O-RU’s ALD port as source of the payload

b) basic transparency is properly applied

c) counter of received octets is properly incremented

d) counters of frames with wrong FCS (CRC) and frames without stop flags are not incremented

Test scenario is considered as completed with success in case all mentioned above conditions are satisfied. Any deviation means test scenario is failed.

- Test Case 3: Reception from ALD (negative case – wrong FCS)
Scope: datagram reception, start / stop flag detection and removal, transparency algorithm application, CRC verification

NOTE: Test case 3 shall be performed just after Test case 1 so that content injected by RS-485 sniffer / injector is considered by O-RU as ALD’s response to message sent towards ALD in Test case 1. Timing between Test case 1 and Test case 3 shall follow 3GPP specifications mentioned above.

1) RS-485 sniffer / injector sends message containing wrong FCS towards O-RU’s ALD port used in Test case 1.

2) O-RU receives the content.

3) O-RU removes start / stop flags, performs basic transparency (replaces “0x7D 0x5E” with “0x7E” and “0x7D 0x5D” with “0x7D”) and detects, that FCS is incorrect according content of received datagram.

4) O-RU sends “ald-resp-msg” towards NETCONF Client.  In the response parameter “status” contains value “ACCEPTED”.

- Test Case 3 Requirement (expected result)
Content received by NETCONF Client is compared with content injected by RS-485 sniffer / injector.

a) record “ald-port” shall indicate proper O-RU’s ALD port as source of the payload

b) record “ald-resp-msg” is empty

c) counter of frames without stop flags is not incremented

d) counter of received octet and counter of frames with wrong FCS (CRC) are incremented

Test scenario is considered as completed with success in case all mentioned above conditions are satisfied. Any deviation means test scenario is failed.

- Test Case 4: Reception from ALD (negative case – no stop flag)
Scope: datagram reception, start / stop flag detection

NOTE: Test case 4 shall be performed just after Test case 1 so that content injected by RS-485 sniffer / injector is considered by O-RU as ALD’s response to message sent towards ALD in Test case 1. Timing between Test case 1 and Test case 4 shall follow 3GPP specifications mentioned above.

1) RS-485 sniffer / injector sends message not terminated by stop flag “0x7E” towards O-RU’s ALD port used in Test case 1.

2) O-RU receives the content.

3) O-RU reaches the end of reception window without receiving stop flag that would terminate the datagram.

4) O-RU sends “ald-resp-msg” towards NETCONF Client. In the response parameter “status” contains value “ACCEPTED”.

- Test Case 4 Requirement (expected result)
Content received by NETCONF Client is compared with content injected by RS-485 sniffer / injector.

a) record “ald-port” shall indicate proper O-RU’s ALD port as source of the payload

b) record “ald-resp-msg” is empty

c) counter of frames with wrong FCS (CRC) is not incremented

d) counter of received octets and counter of frames without stop flags are incremented

Test scenario is considered as completed with success in case all mentioned above conditions are satisfied. Any deviation means test scenario is failed.

- Test case 5: Transmission towards ALD (negative scenario – wrong ALD port)
Scope: CRC calculation, transparency algorithm application, start / stop flag addition, datagram transmission using desired ALD port (ports are not used by the same HDLC Primary Device)

Scenario is applicable only in case O-RU supports more than one ALD port and under condition that ALD ports do not share single modem.

IMPORTANT: In this scenario RS-485 sniffer / injector shall be connected to ALD port different from than the one indicated in record “port-id” of RPC <ald-communication>.

- NETCONF Client sends regular RPC <ald-communication> message.
- O-RU performs the content processing and sends the content towards ALD port that corresponds to content of record “port-id” of RPC
- RS-485 sniffer / injector does not receive payload sent by O-RU.
- Test Requirement (expected result)
Test scenario is considered as completed with success in case RS-485 sniffer / injector does not receive payload in step 3. Any deviation is considered as failed test case.

- Test case 6: Transmission towards ALD (negative scenario – non-existing ALD port)
Scope: datagram reception

- NETCONF Client sends regular RPC <ald-communication> message. Parameter <port-id> used in RPC does not point to existing ALD port.
- O-RU sends <rpc-error> to NETCONF Client. In the response parameter “error-tag” contains value “data-missing”.
- NETCONF Client receives the <rpc-error> message as described above.
- Test Requirement (expected result)
Test scenario is considered as completed with success in case step 3) is reached.

### Log Management

#### Troubleshooting Test

- Test Description and Applicability
This scenario is MANDATORY for both O-RU and O-DU Tests.

This test validates the capability of the O-RU to upload troubleshooting logs including alarm information.

This scenario corresponds to the following clause in [3]:

- 14.2.2	Troubleshooting Log Management
- Test Entrance Criteria
The minimum functions of the TER described in clause 2.1 that support validation of the M-Plane are operational, configured and connected to the O-RU.

- Test Methodology
- Initial Conditions
- The test procedure described in clause 3.1.4.1 is successfully completed.
- Procedure
- The TER NETCONF Client sends <rpc><start-troubleshooting-logs> to the O-RU NETCONF Server.  The O-RU NETCONF Server responds with <rpc-reply>< troubleshooting-status-grouping >.
- <rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="56">
- <start-troubleshooting-logs xmlns="urn:o-ran:troubleshooting:1.0"/>
- </rpc>
- <rpc-reply message-id="56"
- xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0">
- <status xmlns="urn:o-ran:troubleshooting:1.0">SUCCESS</status>
- </rpc-reply>
- The O-RU NETCONF Server starts generating one or more file(s) containing troubleshooting logs.  When the generation of the log file(s) are completed, the O-RU NETCONF Server sends <notification><troubleshooting-log-generated> with a list of one or more log file names to the TER NETCONF Client.
- NOTE: It is assumed that the generated log file(s) contains troubleshooting logs related to alarm 17 measured in 3.1.5.2 or a  vendor specific alarm, but the content and format are not specified.
- <notification xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:notification:1.0">
- <eventTime>YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.FZ</eventTime>
- <troubleshooting-log-generated xmlns="urn:o-ran:troubleshooting:1.0">
- <log-file-name>o-ran/log/Troubleshootinglog.gz</log-file-name>
- </troubleshooting-log-generated>
- </notification>
- The TER NETCONF Client sends  <rpc><file-upload>log-file-name</file-upload></rpc> to the O-RU NETCONF Server to start uploading the log file(s).  The O-RU NETCONF Server responds with <rpc-reply><file-upload> with status SUCCESS.
- <rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="57">
- <file-upload xmlns="urn:o-ran:file-management:1.0">
- <local-logical-file-path>o-ran/log/Troubleshootinglog.gz</local-logical-file-path>
- <remote-file-path>sftp://oranuser@192.168.3.13:22/local/log</remote-file-path>
- <password>
- <password>1234</password>
- </password>
- </file-upload>
- </rpc>
- <rpc-reply message-id="57"
- xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0">
- <status xmlns="urn:o-ran:file-management:1.0">SUCCESS</status>
- </rpc-reply>
- The O-RU NETCONF Server uploads the log file(s) to NETCONF Client by sFTP/FTPES, using FTPES if the O-RU controller is using NETCONF/TLS to configure the O-RU. When file upload is completed, the O-RU NETCONF Server sends <notification><upload-notification> with status SUCCESS.
- <notification xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:notification:1.0">
- <eventTime>YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.FZ</eventTime>
- <file-upload-notification xmlns="urn:o-ran:file-management:1.0">
- <local-logical-file-path>o-ran/log/Troubleshootinglog.gz</local-logical-file-path>
- <remote-file-path>sftp://oranuser@192.168.3.13:22/local/log </remote-file-path>
- <status>SUCCESS</status>
- </file-upload-notification>
- </notification>
- Test Requirement (expected result)
Test step 4 is performed successfully.

NOTE: The O-RU vendor may check the contents of the uploaded log file in detail for the reported alarm 17, but as noted, the content and format of troubleshooting logs are not defined.

#### Trace Test

- Test Description and Applicability
This scenario is MANDATORY for both O-RU and O-DU Tests.

This test validates the capability of the O-RU to upload trace logs.

This scenario corresponds to the following clause in [3]:

- 14.3	Trace
- Test Entrance Criteria
The minimum functions of the TER described in clause 2.1 that support validation of the M-Plane are operational, configured and connected to the O-RU.

- Test Methodology
- Initial Conditions
- The test procedure described in clause 3.1.4.1 is successfully completed.
- Procedure
- The TER NETCONF Client sends <rpc><start-trace-logs> to the O-RU NETCONF Server.  The O-RU NETCONF Server responds with <rpc-reply> <start-trace-logs>.
- The O-RU NETCONF Server starts generating one or more file(s) containing trace logs.  When the generation of the log file(s) are completed, the O-RU NETCONF Server sends <notification><trace-log-generated> and <is-notification-last> set as false with a list of one or more log file names to the TER NETCONF Client.
- NOTE: It is assumed that the generated log file(s) contains trace logs related to O-RU Vendor specific, but the content and format are not specified.
- The TER NETCONF Client sends <rpc><file-upload>log-file-name</file-upload></rpc> to the O-RU NETCONF Server to start uploading the log file(s).  The O-RU NETCONF Server responds with <rpc-reply><file-upload> with status SUCCESS.
- The O-RU NETCONF Server uploads the log file(s) to NETCONF Client by sFTP/FTPES, using FTPES if the O-RU controller is using NETCONF/TLS to configure the O-RU. When file upload is completed, the O-RU NETCONF Server sends <notification><upload-notification> with status SUCCESS.
- The TER NETCONF Client sends <rpc><stop-trace-logs> to the O-RU NETCONF Server.  The O-RU NETCONF Server responds with <rpc-reply> <stop-trace-logs>.
- The TER NETCONF Client can wait for the notification from the O-RU NETCONF Server.  The O-RU NETCONF Server sends <notification> and set <is-notification-last> to true.
- The TER NETCONF Client sends <rpc><file-upload>log-file-name</file-upload></rpc> to the O-RU NETCONF Server to start uploading the remaining log file(s).  The O-RU NETCONF Server responds with <rpc-reply><file-upload> with status SUCCESS.
- The O-RU NETCONF Server uploads the remaining log file(s) to NETCONF Client by sFTP/FTPES, using FTPES if the O-RU controller is using NETCONF/TLS to configure the O-RU.  When file upload is completed, the O-RU NETCONF Server sends <notification><upload-notification> with status SUCCESS.
- Test Requirement (expected result)
Test step 4 and 8 are performed successfully.

NOTE: The O-RU vendor may check the contents of the uploaded log file in detail for the reported trace logs, but as noted, the content and format of trace logs are not defined.

### Connectivity Check

#### Ethernet Connectivity Monitoring

- Test Description and Applicability
This scenario is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY if the O-RU or O-DU supports C-Plane and U-Plane connectivity over Ethernet.

This test validates the proper operation of LBM on the O-RU.

This scenario corresponds to the following clauses in [3]:

- 7.3 C/U Plane VLAN configuration
- 7.5 Definition of processing elements
- 7.6.1 C/U-Plane transport connectivity verification
- Test Entrance Criteria
- The minimum functions of the TER described in clause 2.1 that support validation of the M-Plane are operational, configured and connected to the O-RU.
- Result validation of this test requires TER capabilities such as a network sniffer that allows for traffic analysis over ETH frames between O-RU and O-DU.
- Test Methodology
- Initial Conditions
The test procedure described in clause 3.1.4.1 is successfully completed.

- Procedure
- The TER NETCONF Client configures the O-RU NETCONF Server with a vlan-id for the C-Plane and U-Plane interfaces.
- The TER NETCONF Client configures a transport-flow in the O-RU processing element:  a combination of VLAN identity, O-DU MAC address and O-RU MAC address.
- The TER sends loopback message to the O-RU MAC address configured for the processing element.
- The O-RU sends loopback responses to the O-DU MAC Address of the loopback message.
- Test Requirement (expected result)
Packets are sent correctly in step 3 and 4, as validated via the TER.

#### UDP Echo Test

- Test Description and Applicability
This scenario is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.  The test is applicable only if the O-RU or O-DU supports C-Plane and U-Plane sessions over IP.

This test validates the proper operation UDP Echo on the O-RU for continuous verification of connectivity.

This scenario corresponds to the following clauses in [3]:

- 7.4 O-RU C/U Plane IP Address Assignment
- 7.5 Definition of processing elements
- 7.6 O-DU Verification of C/U Plane Transport Connectivity
- Test Entrance Criteria
- The minimum functions of the TER described in clause 2.1 that support validation of the M-Plane are operational, configured and connected to the O-RU.
- Result validation of this test requires TER capabilities such as a network sniffer that allows for traffic analysis over ETH frames between O-RU and O-DU.
- Test Methodology
- Initial Conditions
- The test procedure described in clause 3.1.4.1 is successfully completed.
- Procedure
- The TER NETCONF Client configures IP information and udpip-flow in the O-RU processing element for the C-Plane and U-Plane communications.
- The TER NETCONF Client configures the enable-udp-echo leaf = true in the udp-echo YANG model to be enabled operation of the UDP echo server in the O-RU.
- The TER NETCONF Client sends a UDP datagram to UDP port number:7 of the O-RU NETCONF Server.
- The O-RU NETCONF Server sends back the UDP datagram to the TER NETCONF Client.
- The TER NETCONF Client configures the enable-udp-echo leaf = false in the udp-echo YANG model to be disabled operation of the UDP echo server in the O-RU.
- Test Requirement (expected result)
Packets are sent correctly in step 3 and 4 as validated by the TER with sniffer capability.

### Energy Savings

#### Carrier Deactivation and Energy Saving Configuration

A.	Test Description and Applicability

- 15.3.2 Activation, deactivation and sleep
- 20.2 Carrier deactivation for energy saving
- 10.2 Measurement activation and de-activation
B.	Test Entrance Criteria

The minimum functions of the TER described in clause 2.1 that support validation of the M-Plane are operational, configured and connected to the O-RU.

C.	Test Methodology

- Initial Conditions
1.	The test procedure described in clause 3.1.10.1 is successfully completed so that O-RU is configured to receive, process and output the test signal defined in initial condition 4.

2.	    Leaf active is ACTIVE in the tx-array-carrier and rx-array-carrier elements for the carriers under test.

3.	The TER NETCONF Client subscribes to notifications of the measurement-object power, with the measurement-interval of 60 sec.

4.	CUSM Emulator generates proper C/U plane stimulus for 3GPP test waveform with 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in section 3GPP 38.141 -1 NR-FR1-TM1.1 and section 3.2.1.1.5 of this document. If the radio does not support the bandwidth and/or numerology defined here, it will be up to the test developer to modify these parameters in the test waveform to adapt to the O-RU capabilities.

- Procedure
- The TER NETCONF Client retrieves subscribed notifications from the O-RU NETCONF Server on the power consumption performance measurement.
- The TER measures the AC or DC power consumption of the O-RU using power meter.
- The TER compares the difference between the reported power consumption by the O-RU NETCONF Server and the measured power consumption in step 2 to validate it is within acceptable range, e.g. ± 10%.
- The TER NETCONF Client sets the value of the leaf active at tx-array-carrier element / rx-array-carrier element to INACTIVE.
- The O-RU NETCONF Server responds with a <rpc-reply> message indicating successful completion of requested procedure.
- The TER NETCONF Client waits for at least two continuous Notifications of INACTIVE from the O-RU NETCONF Server to ensure a full cycle of INACTIVE state for power measurements is past.
- The TER performs the DC or AC power consumption measurement with the power meter.
- The TER verifies the transmission from the O-RU is turned OFF using a signal analyzer.
- The TER compares the difference between the reported power consumption by the O-RU NETCONF Server and the measured in step 7 to validate it is within acceptable range, e.g. ± 10%. The power consumption should be smaller than the previous one measured in the step 2.
- The TER NETCONF Client sets the value of the parameter energy-saving-enabled element to TRUE.
- The O-RU NETCONF Server responds with a <rpc-reply> message indicating successful completion of requested procedure.
- The power-state of o-ran-hardware is switched to SLEEPING, indicating the O-RU is in energy saving mode. Check O-RU power-state=SLEEPING.
- The TER performs the DC or AC power consumption measurement with the power meter.
- The TER NETCONF Client waits for at least one Notification of Power measurement from the NETCONF Server to ensure a full cycle of power-state=sleeping for power measurement is completed.
- The TER compares the difference between the reported power consumption by the NETCONF Server and the measured power consumption in step 13 to validate it is within acceptable range, e.g. ± 10%. The power consumption measured by the power analyzer is expected to be smaller than that measured in the Step 7.
D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

- The test steps above are performed successfully
- All validation steps above are within expected ranges or correctly match the expected outcome.

#### Carrier Activation

A.	Test Description and Applicability

- 15.3.2 Activation, deactivation and sleep
- 20.2 Carrier deactivation for energy saving
- 10.2 Measurement activation and de-activation
B.	Test Entrance Criteria

The minimum functions of the TER described in section 2.1 that support validation of the M-Plane are operational, configured and connected to the O-RU.

C.	Test Methodology

- Initial Conditions
- The test procedure described in clause 3.1.10.1 is successfully completed so that O-RU is configured to receive, process and output the test signal defined in initial condition 5.
- Leaf active is either INACTIVE or SLEEP in the tx-array-carrier and rx-array-carrier elements for the carriers under test.
- Leaf state is either DISABLED (if leaf active is INACTIVE) or READY (if leaf active is SLEEP) in the tx-array-carrier and rx-array-carrier elements for the carriers under test.
- The TER NETCONF Client subscribes to notifications of the measurement-object power, with the measurement-interval of 60 sec.
- CUSM Emulator generates proper C/U plane stimulus for 3GPP test waveform with 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in clause ETSI TS 138.141 -1 NR-FR1-TM1.1 and clause 3.2.1.1.5 of this document. If the radio does not support the bandwidth and/or numerology defined here, it will be up to the test developer to modify these parameters in the test waveform to adapt to the O-RU capabilities.
- Procedure
- The TER NETCONF Client retrieves subscribed notifications from the O-RU NETCONF Server on the power consumption performance measurement.
- The TER measures the AC or DC power consumption of the O-RU using a power meter.
- The TER compares the difference between the power consumption reported by the O-RU NETCONF Server and the power consumption measured in step 2, validating that it is within an acceptable range, e.g. ± 10%.
- The TER NETCONF Client sets the value of the leaf active at tx-array-carrier element / rx-array-carrier element to ACTIVE.
- The O-RU NETCONF Sever responds with a <rpc-reply> message indicating successful completion of requested procedure.
- The TER NETCONF Client waits for at least two continuous Notifications of ACTIVE from the NETCONF Server to ensure a full cycle of ACTIVE state for power measurements is completed.
- The TER performs the DC or AC power consumption measurement with the power meter.
- The TER verifies transmission is present from the O-RU and the expected signal (defined in C.a.5) is measured successfully with a signal analyzer.
- The TER compares the difference between the DC or AC power consumption reported by the O-RU NETCONF Server and the DC or AC power consumption measured in step 7, validating that it is within an acceptable range, e.g. ± 10%. The power consumption should now be larger than the previous one measured in the step 2.
- The TER records the time from execution of step 4 to the TER receiving the signal from the O-RU.
D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

- The test steps above are performed successfully.
- All validation steps above are within expected ranges or correctly match the expected outcome.

#### Subscription and Reporting of Energy, Power and Environmental (EPE)  Statistics

A.	Test Description and Applicability

- 10.2 Measurement activation and de-activation
B.	Test Entrance Criteria

The minimum functions of the TER described in section 2.1 that support validation of the M-Plane are operational, configured and connected to the O-RU

C.	Test Methodology

- Initial Conditions
- The test procedure described in clause 3.1.1.1 (IPv4/SSH) or 3.1.1.3 (IPv6/SSH) or 3.1.1.5 (IPv4/TLS) or 3.1.1.7 (IPv6/TLS) is successfully completed.
- Procedure
- The TER NETCONF Client activates the Energy, Power and Environmental performance measurement via NETCONF <edit-config> to O-RU NETCONF Server with the following parameters and values:

| Parameters | Value |
| --- | --- |
| Measurement-group | Epe-statistics |
| Measurement-object | POWER |
| Report-info | Average |
| Object-unit | O-RAN-RADIO |
| Measurement-interval | 60 sec |
| Active | True |

- The O-RU NETCONF Sever responds with a <rpc-reply> message indicating successful completion of requested procedure.
- The TER NETCONF Client subscribes to measurement group epe-statistics and measurement-object POWER to collect the measurement result by sending NETCONF <create-subscription> to NETCONF server in the O-RU. The following is an example:
<rpc xmlns:netconf="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="101">

<create-subscription xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:notification:1.0">

<filter netconf:type="subtree">

<measurement-result-statistics

xmlns="urn:o-ran:performance-management:1.0">

<epe-statistics>

<measurement-object>POWER</measurement-object>

</epe-statistics>

</measurement-result-statistics>

</filter>

</create-subscription>

</rpc>

D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

- The test steps above are performed successfully
- All validation steps above are within expected ranges or correctly match the expected outcome.

#### M-Plane based TRX control

- Test Description and Applicability
This scenario is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY for O-RU and O-DU. The test must be executed if the O-RU supports M-plane based TRX control.

This test validates M-plane based TRX control.

The test scenario is intentionally limited in scope to be applicable to any O-RU hardware design that supports Energy Savings.

This scenario corresponds to the following clause in [3]:

- 20.3.2 	TRX control – M-Plane controlled
- 10.2 	Measurement activation and de-activation
- Test Entrance Criteria
- Initial Conditions
- EXAMPLE-1: configuration of a given 32-bit tx antenna mask by specifying the antenna-index 1, which points to an antenna mask that has half ones and the other half zeros:
- <rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="101">
- <edit-config xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0">
- <target>      <running/>   </target>   <config>
- </edit-config>
- </rpc>
- EXAMPLE-2: configuration of a 32-bit tx antenna mask is shown below:
- <rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="101">
- <edit-config xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0">
- <target>      <running/>   </target>   <config>
- </edit-config>
- </rpc>
<rpc-reply xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="101">

- <ok/>
</rpc-reply>

- EXAMPLE-1: mplane-trx-control-ant-mask-update notification by specifying the antenna-index is shown below:
- EXAMPLE-2: mplane-trx-control-ant-mask-update notification by specifying antenna mask is shown below:
- EXAMPLE-1: configuration of a given 32-bit tx antenna mask by specifying the antenna-index 5 which points to all-ones antenna mask:
<rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="102">

<edit-config xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0">

<target>      		<running/>   	</target>   	<config>

</edit-config>

</rpc>

- EXAMPLE-2: configuration of a 32-bit tx antenna mask is shown below:
<rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="102">

- <edit-config xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0">
- <target>         <running/>     </target>     <config>
- </edit-config>
</rpc>

- Note : For resetting antenna mask 15 minutes is specified as an example, actual value may depend on O-RU implementation.
<rpc-reply xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="102">

<ok/>

</rpc-reply>

- EXAMPLE-1: mplane-trx-control-ant-mask-update notification by specifying the antenna-index is shown below:
- EXAMPLE-2: mplane-trx-control-ant-mask-update notification by specifying antenna mask is shown below:

#### Deep-hibernate

- <rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="105">
- <edit-config xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0">
- <target>      <running/>  </target> <config>
- </edit-config>
- </rpc>
- NOTE: hibernate-time is between min-hibernate-time-duration and max-hibernate-time-duration if advertised by the O-RU.
<rpc-reply xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="105">

- <ok/>
</rpc-reply>

<rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="106">

- <close-session xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0"/>
</rpc>

#### Data layer control

## UC-Plane Measurements O-RU

### UC-Plane Standard Test Definitions

The following clauses describe test scenarios for equipment implementing the U-Plane and C-Plane O-RAN option 7.2x protocols.

#### UC-Plane Measurements, O-RU TEST SCENARIO

In these sets of tests, the Device Under Test (DUT) is the O-RU.

This document describes conformance tests for 4 scenarios:

Conducted FDD tests for FR1 radios

Non-conducted (OTA) FDD tests for FR1 radios

Conducted TDD tests for FR1 radios

Non-conducted tests for TDD FR1 and FR2 radios

The O-RU must only be tested for the scenarios that apply to the O-RU capabilities. The fact that there are 4 scenarios defined does not imply that every O-RU must be tested for all scenarios in order to be O-RAN compliant and consequently the O-RU does not have to support all the capabilities required to test all 4 scenarios (i.e. support of FR1, FR2, TDD, FDD, conducted and non-conducted). In other words, depending on whether the O-RU supports capabilities such as FDD, TDD, FR1 and or FR2, only the corresponding scenarios that match the O-RU capabilities will apply. For example, an O-RU that does not have or cannot provide access to antenna ports (or TAB connectors), supports TDD and operates at FR2 bands, the corresponding scenario that the O-RU will need to be tested to be O-RAN conformant is scenario #4 only. Another example, for an O-RU that supports FDD, operates at FR1 bands and has or can provide access to antenna ports (or TAB connectors), scenario #1 or #2 can apply but only one of the two possible scenarios will be selected to test the O-RU for O-RAN conformance.

For scenario #1 and #3 above the RF test setup is as described in ETSI TS 138.141-1[NR] and TS 136.141 [LTE].  For scenarios #2 and #4 the RF test setup is as described in TS 138.141-2. Note that O-RAN conformance testing is expected to be “off-line” and not to be run while an O-DU and/or O-RU is operating and serving actual users.  The O-RU manufacturer must also make available the same declarations described in ETSI TS 138.141-1, TS 138.141-2 [NR] and TS 136.141 [LTE] Section 4.6.  This will determine the radio’s support for multi-carrier operation (e.g. if multi-carrier operation is supported on different connectors)

Since the purpose of this document is to test O-RAN Fronthaul conformance and not to duplicate 3GPP RF tests, only selected parts of TS 138.141-1, TS 138.141-2 [NR] and TS 136.141 [LTE] will be used for RF testing.  These selected test features are only necessary to test whether the O-RU correctly interpreted and generated the O-RAN C-Plane and U-Plane messages correctly. Several testcases require a bandwidth that may not be supported by the O-RU. In such situation, the testcase should be executed by adjusting to a bandwidth that is supported by the O-RU and complies with the channel bandwidth listed in either TS 138.104 clause 5.3.2 for NR or TS 136.104 clause 5.6 for LTE. The adjustment of the bandwidth can be done by reducing the number of physical resource blocks or by selecting another FRC. The bandwidth adjustment may select the minimum bandwidth defined by 3GPP. The adjustment of the bandwidth does not require the execution of the same testcase again with a larger bandwidth.

There will also be some additions to the test waveforms used in TS 138.141-1, TS 138.141-2 [NR] and TS 136.141 [LTE] to fully exercise the features of the O-RAN Fronthaul protocol.  These selected parts and additions are summarized below:

##### For scenario #1 (Conducted FDD tests for FR1 radios)

For downlink tests for type 1-C radios (radios with antenna port connectors and passive antennas) the test configuration described in TS 138.141-1 D.1.1 will be used.  Only a single antenna port will be used unless the test explicitly requires more than one port and the radio supports more than one port.  RF test equipment will be connected at the point described in TS 138.141-1 clause 4.2.1. Note that an antenna port is an electrical conducting port that is connected to an array element.

For uplink tests for type 1-C radios (radios with antenna port connectors and passive antennas) the test configuration described in TS 138.141-1 D.2.1 will be used.  Only a single antenna port will be used unless the test explicitly requires more than one port and the radio supports more than one port.  RF test equipment will be connected at the point described in TS 138.141-1 clause 4.2.1. Note that an antenna port is an electrical conducting port that is connected to an array element.

For downlink tests for type 1-H radios (radios with TAB connectors and active antenna systems) the test configuration described in TS 138.14138.141-1 D.3.1 will be used for conducted tests.  Only a single TAB connector will be used unless the test explicitly requires more than one connector.  RF test equipment will be connected at the point described in TS 138.141-1 clause 4.2.2. Note that a transceiver array boundary (TAB) connector is an electrical conducting port that is connected to an array element via a radio distribution network (RDN).

For uplink tests for type 1-H radios (radios with TAB connectors and active antenna systems) the test configuration described in TS 138.14138.141-1 D.4.1 will be used for conducted tests.  Only a single TAB connector will be used unless the test explicitly requires more than one connector.  RF test equipment will be connected at the point described in TS 138.141-1 clause 4.2.2. Note that a transceiver array boundary (TAB) connector is an electrical conducting port that is connected to an array element via a radio distribution network (RDN).

The basic downlink test will start with the Test model described in NR-FR1-TM1.1 and E-TM1.1.  Subsequent tests will adapt this model to test additional features of the O-RAN interface (e.g. Modifying the payload data, blanking some symbols, etc.).  Note this test model describes the IQ data contained in the O-RAN packets not the O-RAN specific parameters.  This test model will also be augmented with the following O-RAN specific parameters:

Includes “stock” eAxC values as configured via M-Plane:

DU_Port_ID: two bits, nominal value 00b

BandSector: nominal 6 bits, nominal value 000000b

CC_ID: nominal 4 bits, nominal value 0000b (most tests invoke only one component carrier)

RU_port_ID: 4 bits, nominal values 0000b through 0011b or to whatever max value needed for a specific test

If the radio manufacturer declares support for multi-carrier a different eAxC will be assigned for each carrier. Note that most tests described in ETSI TS 138.141-1[NR] and TS 136.141 [LTE]  require testing at the bottom, middle and top of the supported bands of the radio.  This specification relaxes that requirement because the purpose is to test the fronthaul compliance and not the radio performance.

Compression: Static 16-bit fixed point IQ bitwidth in both DL and UL

Beamforming: no beamforming (beamId = 0x0000), assumed to mean boresight radiation (normal to the antenna surface) at some undetermined beamwidth (recall that beam weight magnitudes must be equal to unity)

Transport: L2 Ethernet, eCPRI with no fragmentation and no QOS

- Delay Parameters: The test will be executed with a direct fiber connection to the O-RU and the network delay is considered negligible for the purpose of delay management.  Therefore, T12_min = T12_max = 0 and T34_min = T34_max = 0.
The radio will report its supported values for:

- T2a_min/max_up
- Ta3_min/max_up
- T2a_min/max_cp_ul
- Tcp_adv_dl
These parameters will be used to calculate the delay windows needed for the delay management tests below.  Note that T1a_min_up = T2a_min_up and T1a_max_up = T2a_max_up due to the fixed, zero network delay.  Similarly, Ta4_min_up = Ta3_min_up and Ta4_max_up = Ta3_max_up.  Similarly, T1a_min_cp_ul = T2a_min_cp_ul and T1a_max_cp_ul = T2a_max_cp_ul.

Uplink tests will start with the basic 3GPP test signal for Fixed Reference Channels for receiver sensitivity and in-channel selectivity as described in ETSI TS 138.141-1[NR] and TS 136.141 [LTE].  All O-RAN specific parameters will be the same as described above for downlink testing.  As with downlink testing subsequent tests will build on this basic waveform modifying parameters as needed to exercise O-RAN specific features.

Uplink tests will be conducted using power levels at least 30dB higher than the power levels used to test 3GPP Receiver sensitivity described in ETSI TS 138.141-1 Table 7.2.5-1[NR] and TS 136.141 [LTE]. This is to ensure a clear signal is received by the O-RU so it can be accurately decoded and demodulated to ensure the correct data was received by the O-DU as was sent by the signal source.  Again, the purpose of these tests is to ensure correct operation of the O-RAN fronthaul not to test receiver sensitivity.

##### For scenario #2 (Non-conducted OTA FDD tests for FR1 radios)

- For downlink tests for type 1-H radios that elect to be tested over the air (OTA) rather than conducted, the test configuration is described in TS 138.141-2 E.1.2 where the Test Antenna will be placed inside an OTA chamber and measurements are referenced to the radiated characteristics defined over the air (OTA) at the Radiated Interface Boundary (RIB) defined in TS 138.141-2 4.2-1. The RF analyzer test equipment is connected to the Test Antenna and is located outside of the OTA chamber.
For downlink test for 1-O or 2-O radios (radios with no physical antenna or TAB connectors and consequently only over the air – OTA – measurements are possible) the test configuration is described in TS 138.141-2 E.1.2 where the Test Antenna will be placed inside an OTA chamber and measurements are referenced to the radiated characteristics defined over the air (OTA) at the Radiated Interface Boundary (RIB) defined in TS 138.141-2 4.2-2. The RF analyzer test equipment is connected to the Test Antenna and is located outside of the OTA chamber.

For uplink tests for type 1-H radios that elect to be tested over the air (OTA) rather than conducted, the test configuration is described in TS 138.141-2 E.2.1 where the Test Antenna will be placed inside an OTA chamber and measurements are referenced to the radiated characteristics defined over the air (OTA) at the Radiated Interface Boundary (RIB) defined in TS 138.141-2 4.2-1. The RF generator test equipment is connected to the Test Antenna and is located outside of the OTA chamber.

For uplink test for 1-O or 2-O radios (radios with no physical antenna or TAB connectors and consequently only over the air (OTA) measurements are possible) the test configuration is described in TS 138.141-2 E.2.1 where the Test Antenna will be placed inside an OTA chamber and measurements are referenced to the radiated characteristics defined over the air (OTA) at the Radiated Interface Boundary (RIB) defined in TS 138.141-2 4.2-2. The RF generator test equipment is connected to the Test Antenna and is located outside of the OTA chamber.

For downlink tests for LTE radios that elect to be tested over the air (OTA), the test configuration is described in TS 138.141-2 E.1.2 where the Test Antenna will be placed inside an OTA chamber and measurements are referenced to the radiated characteristics defined over the air (OTA) at the Radiated Interface Boundary (RIB) defined in TS 138.141-2 4.2-1. The RF analyzer test equipment is connected to the Test Antenna and is located out of the OTA chamber.

For uplink tests for LTE radios that elect to be tested over the air (OTA), the test configuration is described in TS 138.141-2 E.2.1 where the Test Antenna will be placed inside an OTA chamber and measurements are referenced to the radiated characteristics defined over the air (OTA) at the Radiated Interface Boundary (RIB) defined in TS 138.141-2 4.2-1. The RF generator test equipment is connected to the Test Antenna and is located out of the OTA chamber.

Note that the chamber shown in TS 138.141-2 E1.2. and E.2.1. are generic and consequently any OTA chamber could be used, i.e. far field, CATR, near field, reverberation, etc.

Likewise, depending on the beamforming measurement technology the positioner in TS 138.141-2 E.1.2 and E.2.1. may or may not be needed.

Furthermore, depending on the beamforming method to be measured more than one test antenna with more than one RF analyzer and/or generator ports may also be needed.

The basic downlink test will start with the Test model described in NR-FR1-TM1.1 and E-TM1.1 in TS 138.141-1 and 36.141 for NR FR1 and LTE radios respectively.  Subsequent tests will adapt this model to test additional features of the O-RAN interface (e.g. Modifying the payload data, blanking some symbols, etc.).  Note this test model describes the IQ data contained in the O-RAN packets not the O-RAN specific parameters.  This test model will also be augmented with the following O-RAN specific parameters:

Includes “stock” eAxC values as configured via M-Plane:

DU_Port_ID: two bits, nominal value 00b

BandSector: nominal 6 bits, nominal value 000000b

CC_ID: nominal 4 bits, nominal value 0000b (most tests invoke only one component carrier)

RU_port_ID: 4 bits, nominal values 0000b through 0011b or to whatever max value needed for a specific test

If the radio manufacturer declares support for multi-carrier a different eAxC will be assigned for each carrier. Note that most tests described in ETSI TS 138.141-2[NR] and TS 136.141 [LTE]  require testing at the bottom, middle and top of the supported bands of the radio.  This specification relaxes that requirement because the purpose is to test the fronthaul compliance and not the radio performance.

Compression: Static 16-bit fixed point IQ bitwidth in both DL and UL

Beamforming: no beamforming (beamId = 0x0000), assumed to mean boresight radiation (normal to the antenna surface) at some undetermined beamwidth (recall that beam weight magnitudes must be equal to unity)

Transport: L2 Ethernet, eCPRI with no fragmentation and no QOS

- Delay Parameters: The test will be executed with a direct fiber connection to the O-RU and the network delay is considered negligible for the purpose of delay management.  Therefore, T12_min = T12_max = 0 and T34_min = T34_max = 0.
The radio will report its supported values for:

- T2a_min/max_up
- Ta3_min/max_up
- T2a_min/max_cp_ul
- Tcp_adv_dl
These parameters will be used to calculate the delay windows needed for the delay management tests below.  Note that T1a_min_up = T2a_min_up and T1a_max_up = T2a_max_up due to the fixed, zero network delay.  Similarly, Ta4_min_up = Ta3_min_up and Ta4_max_up = Ta3_max_up.  Similarly, T1a_min_cp_ul = T2a_min_cp_ul and T1a_max_cp_ul = T2a_max_cp_ul.

Uplink tests will start with the basic 3GPP test signal for Fixed Reference Channels for receiver sensitivity and in-channel selectivity as described in ETSI TS 138.141-2[NR] and TS 136.141 [LTE]. All O-RAN specific parameters will be the same as described above for downlink testing. As with downlink testing subsequent tests will build on this basic waveform modifying parameters as needed to exercise O-RAN specific features.

Uplink tests will be radiated using power levels at least 30dB higher than the reference sensitivity power levels used to test 3GPP Receiver sensitivity described in ETSI TS 138.141-2 Table 7.3.5.2-1, Table 7.3.5.2-2 and Table 7.3.5.2-3[NR FR1], Table 7.3.5.3-1 [NR FR2]  and TS 136.141 Table 7.2-1 to Table 7.2-12 [LTE]. This is to ensure a clear signal is received by the O-RU so it can be accurately decoded and demodulated to ensure the correct data was received by the O-DU as was sent by the signal source.  Again, the purpose of these tests is to ensure correct operation of the O-RAN fronthaul not to test receiver sensitivity.

##### For scenario #3 (Conducted TDD Tests for FR1 Radios)

All provisions of clause 3.2.1.1.1 will apply to FR1 TDD tests however the default test waveform will be a TDD waveform as described in ETSI TS 138.141-1. It will be NR-FR1-TM1.1 (TDD) and G-FR1-A1-5 (SCS30k_51RB) in the uplink.  If the O-RU does not support the UL bandwidth of 51 RB, another FRC test model can be selected.   The TDD test model is derived based on the uplink/downlink configurations described in ETSI TS 138.141-1 Table 4.9.2.2.1 using information element TDD-UL-DL-ConfigCommon as defined in TS 138.331 for 30 kHz SCS as shown below:

| Field name |  |
| --- | --- |
| referenceSubcarrierSpacing (kHz) | 30 |
| Periodicity (ms) for dl-UL-TransmissionPeriodicity | 5 |
| nrofDownlinkSlots | 7 |
| nrofDownlinkSymbols | 6 |
| nrofUplinkSlots | 2 |
| nrofUplinkSymbols | 4 |

This waveform is shown below:

As an alternative to the default test waveform shown in Figure 3.2.1.1-1, it is optional to flexibly use other test waveforms with any TDD configurations allowed by the information element TDD-UL-DL-ConfigCommon as defined in TS 138.331 for 30 kHz SCS. The tester should use the 3GPP prescribed waveform as the recommended waveform but has the option to use any TDD configuration in the IOT profiles defined in [25] with the above constraints.

This test frame consists of a PDCCH in the first two symbols of every downlink slot consisting of 3 PRBs.  All the remaining PRBs in the frame consist of Physical Downlink Shared Channel data. This configuration corresponds to stock data section A (Section 3.2.1.1.5 below) in all symbols that do not contain PDCCH channels. Individual tests may call out other stock data sections as needed. If the radio does not support the numerology described in section 3.2.3.1 the stock test frames can be adapted for smaller numbers of PRBs and should still be used. Symbols number two and eleven contain DMRS signals which are not used to test O-RAN Front Haul capabilities but should be sent to help test equipment synchronize.  In the standard test frame, all PDSCH data is set to zeros if not otherwise described in the testcase and PUSCH is set to PN23 sequences.  For all tests in this document (except the most basic resource allocation test) the PN23 sequence will be used in both uplink and downlink to allow the test to determine whether test data was put in the correct PRBs and whether the test data was accurately transmitted (or received) by the O-RU under test.

For tests for type 1-C and 1-H the test configuration described in TS 138.141-1 for TDD testing will be used.  Only a single antenna port will be used unless the test explicitly requires more than one port and the radio supports more than one port.  RF test equipment will be connected at the point described in TS 138.141-1. Note that an antenna port is an electrical conducting port that is connected to an array element.

The test will start with the Test model described above.  Subsequent tests will adapt this model to test additional features of the O-RAN interface (e.g. Modifying the payload data, blanking some symbols, etc.).  Note this test model describes the IQ data contained in the O-RAN packets not the O-RAN specific parameters.  This test model will also be augmented with the following O-RAN specific parameters:

Includes “stock” eAxC values as configured via M-Plane:

DU_Port_ID: two bits, nominal value 00b

BandSector: nominal 6 bits, nominal value 000000b

CC_ID: nominal 4 bits, nominal value 0000b (most tests invoke only one component carrier)

RU_port_ID: 4 bits, nominal values 0000b through 0011b or to whatever max value needed for a specific test

If the radio manufacturer declares support for multi-carrier a different eAxC will be assigned for each carrier. Note that most tests described in ETSI TS 138.141-1[NR] and TS 136.141 [LTE] require testing at the bottom, middle and top of the supported bands of the radio.  This specification relaxes that requirement because the purpose is to test the fronthaul compliance and not the radio performance.

Compression: Static 16-bit fixed point IQ bitwidth in both DL and UL

Beamforming: no beamforming (beamId = 0x0000), assumed to mean boresight radiation (normal to the antenna surface) at some undetermined beamwidth (recall that beam weight magnitudes must be equal to unity)

Transport: L2 Ethernet, eCPRI with no fragmentation and no QOS

- Delay Parameters: The test will be executed with a direct fiber connection to the O-RU and the network delay is considered negligible for the purpose of delay management.  Therefore, T12_min = T12_max = 0 and T34_min = T34_max = 0.
The radio will report its supported values for:

- T2a_min/max_up
- Ta3_min/max_up
- T2a_min/max_cp_ul
- Tcp_adv_dl
These parameters will be used to calculate the delay windows needed for the delay management tests below.  Note that T1a_min_up = T2a_min_up and T1a_max_up = T2a_max_up due to the fixed, zero network delay.  Similarly, Ta4_min_up = Ta3_min_up and Ta4_max_up = Ta3_max_up.  Similarly, T1a_min_cp_ul = T2a_min_cp_ul and T1a_max_cp_ul = T2a_max_cp_ul.

Uplink tests will start with the basic 3GPP test signal for Fixed Reference Channels for receiver sensitivity and in-channel selectivity as described in ETSI TS 138.141-1[NR] and TS 136.141 [LTE] and described above.  All O-RAN specific parameters will be the same as described above for downlink testing.  As with downlink testing subsequent tests will build on this basic waveform modifying parameters as needed to exercise O-RAN specific features.

Uplink tests will be conducted using power levels at least 30dB higher than the power levels used to test 3GPP Receiver sensitivity described in ETSI TS 138.141-1 Table 7.2.5-1[NR] and TS 136.141 [LTE]. This is to ensure a clear signal is received by the O-RU so it can be accurately decoded and demodulated to ensure the correct data was received by the O-DU as was sent by the signal source.  Again, the purpose of these tests is to ensure correct operation of the O-RAN fronthaul not to test receiver sensitivity.

##### For Scenario #4 (Non-conducted OTA TDD Tests for FR1 and FR2 Radios)

All provisions of clause 3.2.1.1.2 with respect to OTA methodology will apply to this scenario, except applied to TDD FR1 (1-H, 1-O) and FR2 (2-O) radios.  The default test waveform for FR1 will be a TDD waveform as described in Sec. 3.2.1.1.3.  The default test waveform for FR2 will be a 100 MHz bandwidth TDD waveform based on NR-FR2-TM1.1 for the downlink, and G-FR2-A1-3 for 120 kHz subcarrier spacing with 66 RBs in the uplink.  The TDD test model is derived based on the uplink/downlink configurations described in ETSI TS 138.141-2 Table 4.9.2.2-1 using information element TDD-UL-DL-ConfigCommon as defined in TS 138.331 as shown below:

| Field name | Value |
| --- | --- |
| referenceSubcarrierSpacing (kHz) | 120 |
| Periodicity (ms) for dl-UL-TransmissionPeriodicity | 1.25 |
| nrofDownlinkSlots | 7 |
| nrofDownlinkSymbols | 6 |
| nrofUplinkSlots | 2 |
| nrofUplinkSymbols | 4 |

As an alternative to the default test waveform shown in Figure 3.2.1.1-2, it is optional to flexibly use other test waveforms with any TDD configurations allowed by the information element TDD-UL-DL-ConfigCommon as defined in TS 138.331. The tester should use the 3GPP prescribed waveform as the recommended waveform but has the option to use any TDD configuration in the IOT profiles defined in [25] with the above constraints.

This test frame consists of a PDCCH in the first two symbols of every downlink slot consisting of 3 PRBs.  All the remaining PRBs in the frame consist of Physical Downlink Shared Channel data. This configuration corresponds to stock data section A (Section 3.2.1.1.5 below) in all symbols that do not contain PDCCH channels. Individual tests may call out other stock data sections as needed. If the radio does not support the numerology described the stock test frames can be adapted for smaller numbers of PRBs and should still be used. Symbols number two and eleven contain DMRS signals which are not used to test O-RAN Front Haul capabilities but should be sent to help test equipment synchronize.  In the standard test frame, all PDSCH data is set to zeros if not otherwise mentioned in the testcase  and PUSCH is set to PN23 sequences.  For all tests in this document (except the most basic resource allocation test) the PN23 sequence will be used in both uplink and downlink to allow the test to determine whether test data was put in the correct PRBs and whether the test data was accurately transmitted (or received) by the O-RU under test.

For downlink tests for type 1-H radios that elect to be tested over the air (OTA) rather than conducted, the test configuration is described in TS 138.141-2 E.1.2 where the Test Antenna will be placed inside an OTA chamber and measurements are referenced to the radiated characteristics defined over the air (OTA) at the Radiated Interface Boundary (RIB) defined in TS 138.141-2 4.2-1. The RF analyzer test equipment is connected to the Test Antenna and is located outside of the OTA chamber.

For downlink test for 1-O or 2-O radios (radios with no physical antenna or TAB connectors and consequently only over the air – OTA – measurements are possible) the test configuration is described in TS 138.141-2 E.1.2 where the Test Antenna will be placed inside an OTA chamber and measurements are referenced to the radiated characteristics defined over the air (OTA) at the Radiated Interface Boundary (RIB) defined in TS 138.141-2 4.2-2. The RF analyzer test equipment is connected to the Test Antenna and is located outside of the OTA chamber.

For uplink tests for type 1-H radios that elect to be tested over the air (OTA) rather than conducted, the test configuration is described in TS 138.141-2 E.2.1 where the Test Antenna will be placed inside an OTA chamber and measurements are referenced to the radiated characteristics defined over the air (OTA) at the Radiated Interface Boundary (RIB) defined in TS 138.141-2 4.2-1. The RF generator test equipment is connected to the Test Antenna and is located outside of the OTA chamber.

For uplink test for 1-O or 2-O radios (radios with no physical antenna or TAB connectors and consequently only over the air (OTA) measurements are possible) the test configuration is described in TS 138.141-2 E.2.1 where the Test Antenna will be placed inside an OTA chamber and measurements are referenced to the radiated characteristics defined over the air (OTA) at the Radiated Interface Boundary (RIB) defined in TS 138.141-2 4.2-2. The RF generator test equipment is connected to the Test Antenna and is located outside of the OTA chamber.

For downlink tests for LTE radios that elect to be tested over the air (OTA), the test configuration is described in TS 138.141-2 E.1.2 where the Test Antenna will be placed inside an OTA chamber and measurements are referenced to the radiated characteristics defined over the air (OTA) at the Radiated Interface Boundary (RIB) defined in TS 138.141-2 4.2-1. The RF analyzer test equipment is connected to the Test Antenna and is located out of the OTA chamber.

For uplink tests for LTE radios that elect to be tested over the air (OTA), the test configuration is described in TS 138.141-2 E.2.1 where the Test Antenna will be placed inside an OTA chamber and measurements are referenced to the radiated characteristics defined over the air (OTA) at the Radiated Interface Boundary (RIB) defined in TS 138.141-2 4.2-1. The RF generator test equipment is connected to the Test Antenna and is located out of the OTA chamber.

Note that the chamber shown in TS 138.141-2 E1.2. and E.2.1. are generic and consequently any OTA chamber could be used, i.e. far field, CATR, near field, reverberation, etc.

Likewise, depending on the beamforming measurement technology the positioner in TS 138.141-2 E.1.2 and E.2.1. may or may not be needed.

Furthermore, depending on the beamforming method to be measured more than one test antenna with more than one RF analyzer and/or generator may also be needed.

The basic downlink test will start with the Test model described in NR-FR1-TM1.1 and E-TM1.1 in TS 138.141-1 and 36.141 for NR FR1 and LTE radios respectively, and NR-FR2-TM1.1 in TS 138.141-2 for FR2 radios.  Subsequent tests will adapt this model to test additional features of the O-RAN interface (e.g. Modifying the payload data, blanking some symbols, etc.).  Note this test model describes the IQ data contained in the O-RAN packets not the O-RAN specific parameters.  This test model will also be augmented with the following O-RAN specific parameters:

Includes “stock” eAxC values as configured via M-Plane:

DU_Port_ID: two bits, nominal value 00b

BandSector: nominal 6 bits, nominal value 000000b

CC_ID: nominal 4 bits, nominal value 0000b (most tests invoke only one component carrier)

RU_port_ID: 4 bits, nominal values 0000b through 0011b or to whatever max value needed for a specific test

If the radio manufacturer declares support for multi-carrier a different eAxC will be assigned for each carrier. Note that most tests described in ETSI TS 138.141-2[NR] and TS 136.141 [LTE]  require testing at the bottom, middle and top of the supported bands of the radio.  This specification relaxes that requirement because the purpose is to test the fronthaul compliance and not the radio performance.

Compression: Static 16-bit fixed point IQ bitwidth in both DL and UL

Beamforming: no beamforming (beamId = 0x0000), assumed to mean boresight radiation (normal to the antenna surface) at some undetermined beamwidth (recall that beam weight magnitudes must be equal to unity)

Transport: L2 Ethernet, eCPRI with no fragmentation and no QOS

- Delay Parameters: The test will be executed with a direct fiber connection to the O-RU and the network delay is considered negligible for the purpose of delay management.  Therefore, T12_min = T12_max = 0 and T34_min = T34_max = 0.
The radio will report its supported values for:

- T2a_min/max_up
- Ta3_min/max_up
- T2a_min/max_cp_ul
- Tcp_adv_dl
These parameters will be used to calculate the delay windows needed for the delay management tests below.  Note that T1a_min_up = T2a_min_up and T1a_max_up = T2a_max_up due to the fixed, zero network delay.  Similarly, Ta4_min_up = Ta3_min_up and Ta4_max_up = Ta3_max_up.  Similarly, T1a_min_cp_ul = T2a_min_cp_ul and T1a_max_cp_ul = T2a_max_cp_ul.

Uplink tests will start with the basic 3GPP test signal for Fixed Reference Channels for receiver sensitivity and in-channel selectivity as described in ETSI TS 138.141-2[NR] and TS 136.141 [LTE]. All O-RAN specific parameters will be the same as described above for downlink testing. As with downlink testing subsequent tests will build on this basic waveform modifying parameters as needed to exercise O-RAN specific features.

Uplink tests will be radiated using power levels at least 30dB higher than the reference sensitivity power levels used to test 3GPP Receiver sensitivity described in ETSI TS 138.141-2 Table 7.3.5.2-1, Table 7.3.5.2-2 and Table 7.3.5.2-3[NR FR1], Table 7.3.5.3-1 [NR FR2]  and TS 136.141 Table 7.2-1 to Table 7.2-12 [LTE]. This is to ensure a clear signal is received by the O-RU so it can be accurately decoded and demodulated to ensure the correct data was received by the O-DU as was sent by the signal source.  Again, the purpose of these tests is to ensure correct operation of the O-RAN fronthaul not to test receiver sensitivity.

##### Test Configuration for the UC-Plane

The TER shown in Figure 2.1-1 provides M-Plane and S-Plane commands and sequences to correctly set up the O-RU for testing using the fronthaul connection – meaning a criterion and prerequisite for executing all UC-Plane tests is proper operation of the O-RU’s synchronization and M-Plane capabilities.  The TER provides the specific C-Plane and U-Plane data flows and collects data from the radiated energy from the O-RU and evaluates based on the collected RF energy whether the O-RU correctly received and interpreted the fronthaul DL data flow.  For many tests a single RF detector is satisfactory to detect the radiated signal but for beamforming tests an RF pattern must be measured to validate the correct beam is being generated according to the C-Plane commands and U-Plane data flowing across the fronthaul interface.

In addition, the TER generates RF energy using the signal generator and feeds it to the O-RU’s antennas (or antenna connectors) which is expected to be used by the O-RU, in conjunction with the C-Plane UL commands sent by the TER over the fronthaul connection, to generate UL data flows on the fronthaul connection which are received and evaluated by the TER.  For almost all tests a single RF emitter is satisfactory to generate the radiated signal, even beamforming tests wherein the received power level will validate that the beam main lobe was correctly specified across the fronthaul interface, except for the case of uplink channel-information-based beamforming and DMRS based beamforming tests where multiple RF emitters are needed to emulate multiple uplink spatial streams.

3GPP-specified tests will be used here to simplify the testing, because such tests will need to be supported by the O-RU anyway for 3GPP conformance testing.  The specific test cases identify where this is possible and where changes must be made to adequately test O-RAN features.

Note that when testing the O-RU for fronthaul interface conformance, much more than the fronthaul interface is being tested, indeed the entire O-RU is under test, including digital and analog processing having nothing to do with the fronthaul interface.  Therefore a “passed” test can be interpreted with some confidence as indicating a properly operating fronthaul interface, but a “failed” test may indicate a problem with the fronthaul interface or with some other operation within the O-RU therefore failed tests may require some troubleshooting.  While ETSI TS 138.141-1, TS 138.141-2 [NR] and TS 136.141 [LTE] describes the basic waveform used in these tests it does not describe how the various channels should be put into O-RAN sections.  The ETSI TS 138.141-1 NR-FR1-TM1.1 [NR FR1], TS 138.141-2 NR-FR2-TM1.1 [NR FR2], and TSTS 136.141 E-TM1.1 [LTE] signals are tightly packed with data.  All tests will divide that data into “stock” data sections using the sections described below.  To expedite the definition and creation of the tests, a set of standard test environments and patterns is defined in this clause.  This includes a “stock” arrangement of data sections in DL (same is used for UL) which can be used regardless of the specific bandwidth and SCS used in the test.  Specifically, there are “stock” 1-symbol, 2-symbol, and 3-symbol data section sets that shall be cited in test definitions (numbered “A” through “F”) that will support various test cases.  The test cases are expected to specify the data section definition of a test slot and all slots are expected to follow the same data section definition unless a test specifically states otherwise.  In many cases only some symbols within a slot will be subject to testing; the remaining symbols are expected to remain undefined for the test and may have data sections defined according to the normal operation of the O-DU (e.g. set to carry synch or reference signals consistent with LTE or NR).  In cases where a specific type of data section cannot be supported by the DUT, then that data section is omitted in the symbol(s) and the corresponding U-Plane data shall be set to zero in DL (and arranged to have no RF power in UL).  Figure 3.2.1.1-2 shows the “stock” data section definition.

There is also “stock” U-Plane data that is PN23 data, representing user data prior to modulation, as specified within ETSI TS 138.14138.141-1[CCITT Recommendation O.151 (10/92): https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-O.151-199210-I/en] which is assumed to start at a frame boundary and be identical in all frames in both DL and UL, unless a specific test states differently.  The PN sequence is expected to be running for the duration of the frame for whatever is the bandwidth and SCS (this is different from how the data sections are handled, wherein the data sections are truncated based on the number of PRBs per symbol).  However, in many cases only some symbols within a frame will be actually subject to testing (as defined by the specific tests) so will contain the test PN sequence data; the remaining symbols are expected to remain undefined for the test and may contain data according to the normal operation of the O-DU (e.g. set to carry synch or reference signals consistent with LTE or NR).  Note that the PN sequence initial value is provided by a seed which may be included as a Test Command parameter. If the parameter is omitted the PN sequence generator will use a “seed” value of all ones.

For all tests, the test definition shall define the specific slots and symbols subject to test (carrying the “stock” C-Plane data section definition and the “stock” U-Plane data) with the remaining slots and symbols carrying normal 3GPP synch and control data and either allocated user data according to 3GPP or left empty (i.e. no user data allocated).  All slots and symbols subject to test are identical in each frame, so tests do not have to wait for a specific frame number and are not expected to reset or otherwise perturb the normal frame number sequence.  This is intended to allow the test to disrupt normal O-DU and O-RU operation as little as possible. If there is a specific need to validate the construction of a specific frame or slot of data, a test may elect to zero the test data and leave undefined the data sections for all except one slot or frame of data; where this is necessary it will be described in the specific test definition, but this is expected to be an exceptional case.

##### Generic Steps for Test Execution, O-RU TEST SCENARIO

The following are the generic test steps used when testing the O-RU, although specific tests may deviate from this general procedure:

Configure the Test Equipment, O-RU (TER) for test execution, which may include defining the specific test to execute. This may also include using a scripting language for describing the test.

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Send appropriate C-Plane and U-Plane DL data flows and collect the O-RU radiated energy (or collect from antenna connectors) using RF detection equipment.

- Evaluate the RF energy pattern from the O-RU to determine if the O-RU correctly received and interpreted the fronthaul C-Plane and U-Plane data flows.  In some cases, it also includes decoding and demodulating the RF signal to ensure all UC-Plane messages were interpreted correctly.
Send appropriate C-Plane messages to define the desired UL U-Plane flow, at the same time cause the RF signal generator to radiate (or feed into antenna connectors) the appropriate RF energy pattern for the test.  This also means meeting the appropriate timing windows to allow the O-RU to decode and process the C-Plane messages before the signal generator starts sending RF.

Collect the O-RU UL data flows on the fronthaul interface and evaluate for correctness; this will generally be U-Plane data only but in limited cases (LAA) may include UL C-Plane messages too.

- Since FDD uplink and TDD tests require tight timing constraints between the components of the TER it is recommended that CUSM emulator signal the RF test equipment when C-Plane signalling has started for a frame.  How this signal is used by the RF test equipment to synchronize transmission and reception is implementation dependant.

### Minimum Capabilities of the TER for U-Plane and C-Plane Tests

Since many features of the O-RAN protocol rely on the O-DU instructing the O-RU to put data in specific resource blocks using a specific compression method it is imperative that the test equipment support features that allow comparing data on the fronthaul side with data on the RF side of the radio.

#### Signal Analyzer

has the capability of decoding and demodulating an RF signal either received over the air or on a conducted interface.  This data must be made available for comparison with data sent on the fronthaul interface.

is able to determine the Phase and amplitude of any signal for beamforming tests.

Obviously must support the frequency range of the radio being tested.

#### Signal Generator

provides software capable of building a correct 5G or LTE waveform.

Should have the ability to automatically build 3GPP compliant test waveforms and should provide a mechanism for editing the parameters of that waveform.

is able to be synchronized with the O-DU emulator to ensure proper timing of uplink C-Plane and U-Plane messages

For beamforming test cases:

is able to inject beamformed RF signals according to the test requirements.

needs to be able to emulate a static channel according to the test requirements.

#### CUSM-Plane Emulator (CUSM-E)

is able to extract IQ data from uplink U-Plane messages and demodulate and decode the data to ensure it is the same as what was commanded in the uplink C-Plane messages.

has the ability to synchronize with the RF signal source.

Should have the ability to perform as a PTP Master or subordinate depending on the synchronization configuration the radio supports.

has the ability to accept frequency domain IQ and encapsulate it according to user input on the correct sections.

For DMRS BF test cases:

is capable of measuring EVM and BER/BLER measurements of the received signal from DUT (Uplink direction).

is able to operate with and without Channel Estimation and Equalization over the received signal from DUT (Uplink direction).

### FR1 FDD Conducted-Signal Tests

#### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class NR testing Generic (NRG)

Note that all downlink tests in this clause use a 3GPP test wave form with 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in clause ETSI TS 138.141 -1 NR-FR1-TM1.1 and clause 3.2.1.1.5 of this document.  There are several variations on this test signal depending on the capabilities of the radio.  If the radio does not support the numerology used in the example tests as reported in the M-plane it will be up to the test developer to modify their tests to adapt to the radio.  This can usually be accomplished by using stock test patterns described above.  The test is expected to follow the same spirit as the tests in this document but things like symbol numbers, number of PRBs, etc. may have to be changed.

All uplink tests in this clause use a 3GPP test waveform described in 38.141-1 clause A1, in particular G-FR1-A1-5 (30 kHz subcarrier spacing, QPSK, 100 MHz BW). As with downlink tests if the radio does not support this signal it is up to the test developer to modify the parameters of the test without changing the spirit of the test.

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Base 3GPP DL

Test Description and Applicability

This test is MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can meet the most basic downlink requirements for O-RAN fronthaul.  Subsequent tests will build on this to exercise additional capabilities of the Fronthaul.

Using a standard 3GPP NR-FR1-TM1.1 test frame for FDD the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink the standard NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal.  This signal is shown below in Figure 3.2.3.1-1.

This test frame consists of a PDCCH in the first two symbols of every slot consisting of 3 PRBs.  All the remaining PRBs in the frame consist of Physical Downlink Shared Channel data. This configuration corresponds to stock data section A (Section 3.2.1.1.5 above) in all symbols that do not contain PDCCH channels. If the radio does not support the numerology described in clause 3.2.3.1 the stock test frames can be adapted for smaller numbers of PRBs and should still be used.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit a basic 3GPP test frame using the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.5 of this document (or a similar 3GPP waveform) except only one spatial stream on one antenna will be used.  This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required).  As per TM-FR1-TM1.1 all user data in this test will be zeros.

Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.1 of this document.  The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described by TM-FR1-TM1.1.  It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors.

The O-RU must have a conducted antenna port (or TAB connector) to be connected to a signal analyzer.  It must also support the default parameters defined in clause 3.2.1.1.1 above.

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.  Connect the signal analyzer to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator.  Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal. Every symbol should be described by a single section (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.  Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1.  Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.

Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received by the signal analyzer should be the same as the signal described above.  If it contains all the same PRB assignments and all zero data, the test passes.

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended 3GPP DL – Resource allocation

Test Description and Applicability

This test is MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can accurately interpret C-Plane resource allocation messages, transfer U-Plane data into the correct resource blocks and transmit this data accurately in the downlink.  This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required).  The test will be conducted therefore there will be no channel distortion or interference.  It is mandatory the radio pass this test to be considered O-RAN conformant.

Using a standard 3GPP NR-FR1-TM1.1 test frame for FDD the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink the standard NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal.  This signal is shown below in Figure 3.2.3.1-2.

This test frame consists of a PDCCH in the first two symbols of every slot consisting of 3 PRBs.  All the remaining PRBs in the frame consist of Physical Downlink Shared Channel data. This test requires non-zero data (PN23 Sequence)  to populate all allocated resource blocks.  This configuration corresponds to stock data section A in all symbols that do not contain PDCCH channels.

Test Entrance Criteria

The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in section NR-FR1-TM1.1.  It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors.

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.  Connect the signal analyzer to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator.  Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal. Every symbol should be described by a single section (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. The data in the sections must be a PN23 sequence using an initial seed of all ones. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.  Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1.  Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.

Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received by the signal analyzer should be the same as the signal described above.  If it contains all the same PRB assignments and data, the test passes.

##### UC Plane O-RU Base Class FDD Test UL

Test Description and Applicability

This test is MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can meet the most basic uplink requirements for O-RAN fronthaul correctly interpreting C-Plane messages and correctly constructing uplink U-Plane messages from an RF signal. Subsequent tests will build on this to exercise additional capabilities of the Fronthaul.

The test validates that correct uplink operation of the O-RU using 3GPP Reference Sensitivity level definition (clause 7.2 TS 138.141-1) of the Conducted Receiver Characteristic Test (Clause 7 TS 138.141) and power Levels at least 30 dB above Reference Sensitivity power Level described in TS 138.141-1 Table 7.2.5-1.  This is to improve the likelihood that all data will be received by the radio correctly since we are not interested in testing receiver sensitivity but only the O-RAN protocol compliance.

This signal is described by table A.1-1 in ETSI TS 138.141-1 and is referred to as G-FR1-A1-5 with the power increased to up to 30 dB above that described in Table 7.2.5-1.  Under those conditions, a 3GPP compliant O-RU should deliver uplink U-Plane information that matches the uplink signal.

The TER (Test Equipment, O-RU) generates an uplink signal on the antenna connector or TAB connector, together with the corresponding C-Plane messages on the Fronthaul interface.

The TER will capture the U-Plane messages generated by the DUT and validate whether the payload matches the uplink signal.

It applies to the O-RAN CUS Specification [2]:

- Clause 7.4
- Clause 8.3.2
- Clause 8.3.3
Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.1 of this document.  The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in ETSI TS 138.141-1 clause G-FR1-A1-5.  It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors. Note this signal may be changed to any of the 3GPP sensitivity test signals in table A.1-1 in ETSI TS 138.141-1 if the radio does not support the numerology and bandwidth used in this test.  The test signal described in this clause will be used if the radio supports that numerology and bandwidth.

Test Methodology

Leverage from the well-known payload (PN23 sequence) of the uplink signal to compare it with the payload of the signal communicated on the O-RAN interface. The IQ information is extracted from the U-Plane message and demodulated to retrieve payload.

a: Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.  Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna port and configure the source to transmit the required 3GPP test signal upon receiving a trigger signal from the CUSM-E.  The signal source power level should be adjusted to at least 30 dB above the setting used in the 3GPP receiver sensitivity test.

b: Procedure

Load uplink test waveform (G-FR1-A1-5 : SCS30k_51RB) on the RF signal source

Configure signal source to play test waveforms on 10ms frame boundaries starting when it receives a trigger signal from the O-DU emulator that C-Plane messages have been sent.

Load C-Plane message sequence on Test Equipment O-RU (TER)

Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul Messages

Launch test to play the RF uplink frame after the C-Plane messages have been sent honoring timing windows

Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the Antenna port

Extract IQ information

Extract Payload

Compare payload binary sequences

Test Requirement (expected result)

The verdict is “Test pass” if the payload binary sequences match between the uplink test frame sent to the DUT and the received U-Plane data from the DUT

If any of the test conditions are not true, the verdict for the whole test is "Fail"

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using RB Parameter 3GPP DL – Resource Allocation

Test Description and Applicability

This test is MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can accurately interpret C-Plane resource allocation messages with the rb parameter set, transfer U-Plane data into the correct resource blocks and transmit this data accurately in the downlink.  This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required).  The test will be conducted therefore there will be no channel distortion or interference.  It is mandatory the radio pass this test to be considered O-RAN conformant.

Using a standard 3GPP NR-FR1-TM1.1 test frame for FDD the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink the standard NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal.  This signal is shown below in Figure 3.2.3.1-4.

This test frame consists of a PDCCH in the first two symbols of every slot consisting of 3 PRBs.  All the remaining PRBs in the frame consist of Physical Downlink Shared Channel data.

This test requires non-zero data to populate all allocated resource blocks.

Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.1 of this document.  The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in clause NR-FR1-TM1.1.  It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors. The signal analyzer must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel.

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.  Connect the signal analyzer to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator.  Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal.  Every allocated (see below) symbol should be described by sections (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages.  No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.  Symbol #3 of each slot should be Stock data section “D”  as shown in clause 3.2.1.1.5 above. The control plane for symbol #3 will only include PRBs number 5 through 23. C-Plane messages will have the rb bit set to one for this section. All other DL-SCH symbols and PRBs other than PRBs 5-23 will either not contain data (i.e. left empty) or contain user data as defined in the 3GPP NR-FR-TM1.1 FDD test model.  There are two options to conduct the test:

- A single data section with the rb bit set and a PN23 sequence sent as shown below:
A new PN23 sequence will be started but every other PRB will contain only the odd parts of the PN23 sequence (as shown in green).  The other PRBs (shown in orange) will not contain data and will not be sent to the O-RU.  Thus, a single data section will be used, and the corresponding U-Plane message will only contain data for the odd PRBs as shown above.  The parts of the PN23 sequence not used (shown marked with an X) will be discarded.

- Two data sections one containing the odd parts of the PN23 sequence and the other containing the even parts as shown below:
A new PN23 sequence will be started but every other PRB in one section will contain only the odd parts of the PN23 sequence (as shown in green).  The second data section will contain the even parts of the PN23 sequence.  The C-Plane messages for both sections will use the rb bit. The U-Plane messages corresponding to the first data section will contain only the odd parts of the PN23 sequence, the U-Plane message corresponding to the second data section will only contain the even parts.  Thus, a continuous PN23 sequence will be sent only in PRBs 5 through 23.

Additional sections should be included to describe the DCI symbols, Reference Signals and also DL-SCH data (if opted to allocated data for the remining symbols) as described in 38.141-1.  Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1.  Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.

Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received by the signal analyzer should only contain the PN23 sequence data in every other PRB in symbol #3 PRBs 5 to 23 if the test is conducted using option #1.

The test frame received by the signal analyzer should only contain the PN23 sequence data in every PRB in symbol #3 PRBs 5 to 23 if the test is conducted using option #2.

##### UC Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using RB Parameter 3GPP UL – Resource Allocation

Test Description and Applicability

This test is mandatory.

This test adds the capability of interpreting the rb parameter to the basic uplink test

Validate correct uplink operation of the O-RU using 3GPP Reference Sensitivity level definition (clause 7.2 TS 138.141-1) of the Conducted Receiver Characteristic Test (clause 7 TS 138.104) and power Levels at least 30 dB above Reference Sensitivity power Level described in TS 138.141-1 Table 7.2.5-1.  This is to improve the likelihood that all data will be received by the radio correctly since we are not interested in testing receiver sensitivity but only the O-RAN protocol compliance.

Using an RF data source, the test equipment will generate a 3GPP test signal as shown in Figure 3.2.3.1-5 above.  The radio will demodulate and decode this signal and send frequency domain IQ to the O-DU-Emulator as instructed by the O-DU-emulator using uplink C-Plane messages

The TER (Test Equipment, O-RU) generates an uplink signal on the antenna connector or TAB connector, together with the corresponding C-Plane messages on the Fronthaul interface.

The TER will capture the U-Plane messages generated by the DUT and validate if the payload matches with the uplink signal.

It applies to the O-RAN CUS Specification [2]:

- Clause 7.4
- Clause 8.3.2
- Clause 8.3.3
Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.1 of this document.  The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in ETSI TS 138.141-1 clause G-FR1-A1-5.  It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors. The radio must report that it supports the rb parameter. Note this signal may be changed to any of the 3GPP sensitivity test signals in table A.1-1 in ETSI TS 138.141-1 if the radio does not support the numerology and bandwidth used in this test.  The test signal described in this clause will be used if the radio supports that numerology and bandwidth.

Test Methodology

Leverage from the well-known payload (Pseudo Random sequence) of the uplink signal to compare it with the payload of the signal communicated on the O-RAN interface. The IQ information is extracted from the U-Plane message and demodulated to retrieve payload.

a: Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.  Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna port and configure the source to transmit the required 3GPP test signal upon receiving a trigger signal from the CUSM-E.  The signal source power level should be adjusted to at least 30 dB above the setting used in the 3GPP receiver sensitivity test.

b: Procedure

Load uplink test waveform (G-FR1-A1-5 : SCS30k_51RB) on the RF signal source.  Note this signal has a PN23 sequence as user data.

Configure signal source to play test waveforms on 10ms frame boundaries starting when it receives a trigger signal from the O-DU emulator that C-Plane messages have been sent.

Load C-Plane message sequence on Test Equipment O-RU (TER) – In this test only symbol number 6 will be used and all 51 PRBs will be used.   All other symbols will not contain data except required DRMS signals which may be used to synchronize test equipment. There are two options for conducting this test:

- A single data section with the rb bit set and a PN23 sequence sent as shown below:
A new PN23 sequence will be started but every other PRB will contain only the odd parts of the PN23 sequence (as shown in blue).  The other PRBs (shown in orange) will not contain data and will not be sent to the O-RU.  Thus, a single data section will be used, and the corresponding U-Plane message will only contain data for the odd PRBs as shown above.  The parts of the PN23 sequence not used (shown marked with an X) will be discarded.

- Two data sections one containing the odd parts of the PN23 sequence and the other containing the even parts as shown below:
A new PN23 sequence will be started but every other PRB in one section will contain only the odd parts of the PN23 sequence (as shown in blue).  The second data section will contain the even parts of the PN23 sequence (as shown in orange).  The C-Plane messages for both sections will use the rb bit. The U-Plane messages corresponding to the first data section will contain only the odd parts of the PN23 sequence, the U-Plane message corresponding to the second data section will only contain the even parts.  Thus, a continuous PN23 sequence will be sent only in PRBs 0 through 51.

Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul Messages

Launch test to play the C-Plane messages and trigger the source to play the RF signal on a frame boundary.

Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the Antenna port

Extract IQ information

Extract Payload

Compare payload binary sequences

Test Requirement (expected result)

The   verdict is “Test pass” if payload binary sequences match between the uplink test frame sent to the DUT and the received U-Plane data from the DUT.  In particular symbol #6 should contain either every other PRB  of the PN23 sequence or a continuous PN23 sequence in PRBs 0 through 51 depending which test option is chosen.

- If any of the test conditions is not true, the verdict for the whole test is "Fail".

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using SymInc Parameter 3GPP DL – Resource Allocation

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can accurately interpret C-Plane resource allocation messages with the SymInc parameter set, transfer U-Plane data into the correct resource blocks and transmit this data accurately in the downlink.  This test is applicable for  Category A and  Category B radios (No precoding is required).  The test will be conducted therefore there will be no channel distortion or interference.

Using a standard 3GPP NR-FR1-TM1.1 test frame for FDD the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink the standard NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal.  This signal is shown below in Figure 3.2.3.1-6.

This test frame consists of a PDCCH in the first two symbols of every slot consisting of 3 PRBs.  All the remaining PRBs in the frame consist of Physical Downlink Shared Channel data.

This test requires to either populate all allocated resource blocks with non-zero data or leave all resource blocks, except for the resource blocks under test, empty or unallocated.  In the case of nonzero data allocation, this data will be a PN23 sequence with a seed value of all ones.

Two symbols will be reserved for testing the SymInc parameter as described below.

Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.1 of this document.  The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in clause NR-FR1-TM1.1.  It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors.

The Radio must support the SymInc parameter as notified by the M-Plane.  The signal analyzer must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel.

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.  Connect the signal analyzer to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator.  Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal. If all symbols have user data allocated, every symbol may be described by either multiple or a single type 1 section (DL-SCH and DCI) except symbols #5 and #6 which will be used for the SymInc test. The data in these sections must be a PN23 sequence using an initial seed of all ones. Each symbol should be a new PN23 sequence, that is PRB 0 should contain the data from a new PN23 sequence for each symbol. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.

Symbols number 5 and 6 should be stock data sections type “E” as shown above.  This stock data section consists of two adjacent symbols each containing two sections.  The corresponding C-Plane message will contain 4 section IDs in a single C-Plane message describing symbols #5 and #6.  The startSymbolId in the application header will be symbol #5. The third section ID for symbol #6 will have the SymInc bit set informing the O-RU that the third section will begin describing symbol #6.

The corresponding U-Plane messages will be a new PN23 Sequence for each symbol (5 and 6).

Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received by the signal analyzer should only contain the same PN23 signals that were sent in the U-Plane.

##### UC Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using SymInc Parameter 3GPP UL – Resource Allocation

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to add the capability of interpreting the SymInc parameter to the basic uplink test.

Validate correct uplink operation of the O-RU using 3GPP Reference Sensitivity level definition (Clause 7.2 TS 138.141-1) of the Conducted Receiver Characteristic Test (clause 7 TS 138.141) and power Levels at least 30 dB above Reference Sensitivity power Level described in TS 138.141-1 table 7.2.5-1.  This is to improve the likelihood that all data will be received by the radio correctly since we are not interested in testing receiver sensitivity but only the O-RAN protocol compliance. C-Plane messages will contain 4 sections with the SymInc bit set specifying that the radio should increment the current symbol.

Using an RF source, the test equipment will generate a 3GPP test signal as shown in Figure 3.2.3.1-7  above.  The radio will demodulate and decode this signal and send frequency domain IQ to the O-DU-Emulator as instructed by the O-DU-emulator using uplink C-Plane messages.  Note this signal has 20 slots with all symbols populated with only uplink shared data in the only first 51 RBs.  For this test, all the symbols except the ones being under test, symbols #5 and #6, may either be left empty/unallocated or be allocated with user data according to the test model above. If the symbols are populated with user data, PN23 data sequence will be used.

The TER (Test Equipment, O-RU) generates an uplink signal on the antenna connector or TAB connector, together with the corresponding C-Plane messages on the Fronthaul interface.

The TER will capture the U-Plane messages generated by the DUT and validate if the payload matches with the uplink signal.

It applies to the O-RAN CUS Specification [2]:

- Clause 7.4
- Clause 8.3.2
- Clause 8.3.3
Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.1 of this document.  The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in ETSI TS 138.141-1 clause G-FR1-A1-5.  It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors. The radio must report that it supports the SymInc parameter.   Note this signal may be changed to any of the 3GPP sensitivity test signals in table A.1-1 in ETSI TS 138.141-1 if the radio does not support the numerology and bandwidth used in this test.  The test signal described in this clause will be used if the radio supports that numerology and bandwidth.

Test Methodology

Leverage from the well-known payload (Pseudo Random sequence) of the uplink signal to compare it with the payload of the signal communicated on the O-RAN interface. The IQ information is extracted from the U-Plane message and demodulated to retrieve payload.

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.  Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna port and configure the source to transmit the required 3GPP test signal upon receiving a trigger signal from the CUSM-E.  The signal source power level should be adjusted to at least 30 dB above the setting used in the 3GPP receiver sensitivity test.

Procedure

Load uplink test waveform (G-FR1-A1-5 : SCS30k_51RB, 100 MHz) on the RF signal source.  Note this signal has a PN23 sequence as user data.  Configure the source to generate a new PN23 sequence in symbols #5 and #6.

Configure signal source to play test waveforms on 10ms frame boundaries starting when it receives a trigger signal from the O-DU emulator that C-Plane messages have been sent.

Load C-Plane message sequence on Test Equipment O-RU (TER) – Only symbols #5 and #6 in each slot will be used in this test. All other symbols will contain either user data and/or reference signals but will not be considered part of the test.  These two symbols will be used to determine whether the radio properly increments the current symbol ID when the SymInc bit is set. The C-Plane message for symbol #5 should have the SymInc bit set.  This message should have a third section describing symbol #6 (using the SymInc mechanism).  All PRBs in each symbol will be requested (In the example waveform 51 PRBs).

Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul Messages

Launch test to play the C-Plane messages and trigger the source to play the RF signal on a frame boundary.

Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the Antenna port

Extract IQ information

Extract Payload

Compare payload binary sequences

Test Requirement (expected result)

The verdict is “Test pass” if payload binary sequences match between the uplink test frame sent to the DUT and the received U-Plane data from the DUT.  In particular symbols number 5 and 6 should properly contain the correct PN23 sequences that were built by the signal source.

If any of the test conditions is not true, the verdict for the whole test is "Fail"

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using reMask Parameter 3GPP DL – Resource Allocation

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can correctly decode and interpret C-Plane and U-Plane messages putting resource block in the correct place in the transmitted signal using the reMask parameter. In this test stock data section ”D” will be used to exercise the reMask, only PRBs 1 through 5 will be used in this test.

Using a standard 3GPP NR-FR1-TM1.1 test frame for FDD the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink the standard NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal as modified below.  This signal is shown below in Figure 3.2.3.1-8:

This generic 3GPP NR-FR1-TM1.1 test frame consists of a PDCCH in the first two symbols of every slot consisting of 3 PRBs.  All the remaining PRBs in the frame consist of Physical Downlink Shared Channel data.

Resource blocks that are not under test may be filled with non-zero data or may be left unallocated.  If filled with non-zero data, a PN23 sequence with a seed value of all ones must be used.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can accurately interpret C-Plane resource allocation messages with the reMask parameter set, transfer U-Plane data into the correct resource elements and transmit this data accurately in the downlink.  This test is applicable for  Category A and  Category B radios (No precoding is required).  The test will be conducted therefore there will be no channel distortion or interference.  It is mandatory the radio pass this test to be considered O-RAN conformant.

This test will utilize stock data section D described above.

Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.1 of this document.  The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in clause NR-FR1-TM1.1.  It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors.

The Radio must support the reMask parameter as notified by the M-Plane.  The signal analyzer must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel.

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.  Connect the signal analyzer to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator.  Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal as described below. If all symbols have user data allocated, every symbol may be described by type 1 sections (DL-SCH and DCI).   Only symbol #2 will be used for the reMask test. The data in this section must be a PN23 sequence using an initial seed of all ones. The first bits of the PN23 will be in PRB1 and continue in consecutive resource elements to the end of PRB5. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.  The PN23 sequence will be interleaved with DMRS signals as shown below:

Symbol number 2 should be stock data Section Type “D” as shown above.  This test will only be using PRBs 1 through 5.  The corresponding C-Plane message will contain two section IDs in a single C-Plane message describing symbol #2.  The startSymbolId in the application header will be symbol #2. The C-Plane message will have one section with the reMask set to all 101010101010b (only DMRS REs) and another section with the reMask set to all ones.  The first section (reMask = 101010101010b) will be for PRB 1 only, the second section will be for PRBs 2-5 and will have an reMask value of all ones.  The two sections will have different section IDs.  The remainder of the PRBs will not be used and set to zero value.

The corresponding U-Plane messages will be a new PN23 Sequence (initial seed is all ones) in PRBs 1 through 5 of symbol #2 alternated with the DMRS signals.  The first U-Plane message will correspond to sectionID with reMask set to 101010101010b and will contain one PRB with user data and DMRS signals as shown.  The second U-Plane message will correspond to PRBs 2-5 and contain the same alternate data. The purpose of the section ID containing valid data is to ensure the radio sends a signal to synchronize the signal analyzer.

Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received by the signal analyzer should only contain the same PN23 signals that were sent in the U-Plane only for PRBs 2-5.  Only DMRS signals should be sent for PRB1.

##### UC Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using reMask Parameter 3GPP UL – Resource Allocation

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

This test adds the capability of interpreting the reMask parameter to the basic uplink test.

Validate correct uplink operation of the O-RU using 3GPP Reference Sensitivity level definition (Clause 7.2 TS 138.141-1) of the Conducted Receiver Characteristic Test (clause 7 TS 138.141) and power Levels at least 30 dB above Reference Sensitivity power Level described in TS 138.141-1 Table 7.2.5-1.  This is to improve the likelihood that all data will be received by the radio correctly since we are not interested in testing receiver sensitivity but only the O-RAN protocol compliance.

Using an RF source, the test equipment will generate a 3GPP test signal as shown in Figure 3.2.3.1-9 above.  The radio will demodulate and decode this signal and send frequency domain IQ to the O-DU-Emulator as instructed by the O-DU-emulator using uplink C-Plane messages as described below.  This test might either populate all symbols with non-zero data or leave them unallocated/empty. If symbols are populated, a PN23 sequence with seed all ones will be used.

The TER (Test Equipment, O-RU) generates an uplink signal on the antenna connector or TAB connector, together with the corresponding C-Plane messages on the Fronthaul interface.

The TER will capture the U-Plane messages generated by the DUT and validate if the payload matches the uplink signal.

It applies to the O-RAN CUS Specification [2]:

- Clause 7.4
- Clause 8.3.2
- Clause 8.3.3
Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.1 of this document.  The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in ETSI TS 138.141-1 clause G-FR1-A1-5.  It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors. The radio must report that it supports the reMask parameter.   Note this signal may be changed to any of the 3GPP sensitivity test signals in table A.1-1 in ETSI TS 138.141-1 if the radio does not support the numerology and bandwidth used in this test.  The test signal described in this clause will be used if the radio supports that numerology and bandwidth.

Test Methodology

Leverage from the well-known payload PN23 sequence of the uplink signal to compare it with the payload of the signal communicated on the O-RAN interface. The IQ information is extracted from the U-Plane message and demodulated to retrieve payload.

- Initial Conditions
Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.  Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna port and configure the source to transmit the required 3GPP test signal upon receiving a trigger signal from the CUSM-E.  The signal source power level should be adjusted to at least 30 dB above the setting used in the 3GPP receiver sensitivity test.

b: Procedure

Load uplink test waveform (G-FR1-A1-5 : SCS30k_51RB) on the RF signal source.  Note this signal will have a PN23 sequence as user data.

Configure signal source to play the test waveform described below on 10ms frame boundaries starting when it receives a trigger signal from the O-DU emulator that C-Plane messages have been sent.

Load C-Plane message sequence on Test Equipment O-RU (TER).  For symbol #2 only PRBs 1-5 will be sent with the alternating user data and DMRS pattern shown below.  Other symbols may be used in this test or be left unallocated (unused).  However other symbols containing reference signals may be used to ensure the O-RU can synchronize with the TER.  The format of symbol #2 used in this test will be:    The C-Plane message describing symbol #2 should contain two sections with different section IDs.  Only PRBs 1-5 will be used (Matching stock data Section Type “D”).  The first section should only describe PRB 1 and have an reMask of 101010101010b.  The second section should describe PRBs 2-5 and have an reMask of all ones.  The two sections should have different section IDs.

Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul Messages

Launch test to play the C-Plane messages and trigger the source to play the RF signal on a frame boundary.

Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the Antenna port

Extract IQ information

Extract Payload

Compare payload binary sequences

Test Requirement (expected result)

- The verdict is “Test pass” if payload binary sequences match between the uplink test frame sent to the DUT and the received U-Plane data from the DUT.  In particular, there should only be U-Plane messages for PRBs 1-5 with user data and DRMS signals in PRBs 2-5 and only DMRS signals in PRB 1.
- If any of the test conditions is not true, the verdict for the whole test is "Fail"

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using Non-contiguous PRB Allocation Section Extension 3GPP DL – Resource Allocation

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can correctly decode and interpret C-Plane and U-Plane messages putting resource block in the correct place in the transmitted signal using the extension type 6. In this test stock data section definition C will be used to exercise the non-contiguous RB allocation, all 273 PRBs (or the max number of PRBs per symbol for the highest numerology the radio supports) will be used in this test.

Using a standard 3GPP NR-FR1-TM1.1 test frame for FDD the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink the standard NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal with the modifications described below (supporting non-contiguous PRB allocation).  The standard 3GPP NR-FR1-TM1.1 is shown in Figure 3.2.3.1-10 below:

This generic NR-FR1-TM1.1 test frame consists of a PDCCH in the first two symbols of every slot consisting of 3 PRBs.  All the remaining PRBs in the frame consist of Physical Downlink Shared Channel data.

This test might either populate all symbols with non-zero data or leave them unallocated/empty. If symbols are populated, a PN23 sequence with seed all ones will be used.

This test will utilize stock data section definition C described above.  This data section includes 4 RBs in the first RB group, the second group of 4 RBs are blank and the remainder of the RBGs contain user data.  This stock data section will be repeated over three symbols to test the SymbolMask parameter.

Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.1  of this document.  The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in clause NR-FR1-TM1.1.  It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors.  The Radio must support the extension type 6 as notified by the M-Plane.  The signal analyzer must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel.

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.  Connect the signal analyzer to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

Procedure

For this test only symbols number 6 and 7 will be used in each slot.   Other symbols may be used in this test or be left unallocated (unused).  However other symbols containing reference signals may be used to ensure the O-RU can synchronize with the TER.

The starting PRB will be zero and number of PRBs will be chosen from one or more columns in Table 3.2.3-2 below.  The resource block group size will be 16 based on ETSI TS 138.214 Table 5.1.2.2.1-1 as shown in Table 3.2.3-1 below using configuration 2.

| Bandwidth Part Size | Configuration 1 | Configuration 2 |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 1 – 36 | 2 | 4 |
| 37 – 72 | 4 | 8 |
| 73 – 144 | 8 | 16 |
| 145 – 275 | 16 |  |

Using the calculations in the O-RAN CUS Specification [2] clause 7.7.6 for the test waveform described above, the ID of the last RBG will be 17, f(0) will be 16, f(n) will be 16 and f(lastRbgID) will be 1 (17 total RBGs).  StartPrbc will be zero and numPrbc will be 273.  If the radio does not support this numerology the following table will apply.  The number of PRBs correspond to Table 3.2.3-2 Stock Data Sections:

| # PRBs per Symbol (11-79) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| max PRB/sym | 11 | 24 | 25 | 32 | 50 | 51 | 52 | 65 | 66 | 79 |
| numPRBc | 11 | 24 | 25 | 32 | 50 | 51 | 52 | 65 | 66 | 79 |
| rbgSize | 4 | 8 | 16 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| lastRbgID | 2 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 4 |  |  |  |  |
| f(0) | 4 | 8 | 16 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| f(n) | 4 | 8 | 16 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| F(lastRbgID) | 3 | 4 | 1 | 2 | 15 |  |  |  |  |  |
| rbgMask (Hex) | 0000005 | 000003D | 000007D | 00000FD | 00001FD | 000001D |  |  |  |  |

| # PRBs per Symbol (100-273) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| max PRB/sym | 100 | 106 | 107 | 132 | 133 | 135 | 162 | 217 | 270 | 273 |
| numPRBc | 100 | 106 | 107 | 132 | 133 | 135 | 162 | 217 | 270 | 273 |
| rbgSize | 16 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| lastRbgID | 6 | 8 | 10 | 13 | 16 | 17 |  |  |  |  |
| f(0) | 16 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| f(n) | 16 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| F(lastRbgID) | 4 | 10 | 11 | 5 | 7 | 2 | 9 | 14 | 1 |  |
| rbgMask (Hex) | 000007D | 00001FD | 00007FD | 0003FFD | 001FFFD | 003FFFD |  |  |  |  |

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator.  Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal. Every symbol should be described by a single type 1 section (DL-SCH and DCI) except symbols

#6 and #7 which will be used for the section extension 6 test. The data in symbol #6 should be a new PN23 sequence starting in the first PRB and continuing to PRB 273 (RBG number 17).  Symbol #7 should be identical to symbol #6.  The rbgMask value should be set to 0x003FFFD and the symbolMask value should be set to 00000011000000b.  No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.

The O-DU emulator will build a U-Plane message containing the PN23 IQ data for the first 16 PRBs (RBG 0), this message will have the section ID used in the C-Plane message described above.  Another U-Plane message will be created using the same section ID but with the PN23 data for RBGs 2-17 in it.  The same U-Plane messages will be used for symbol #7.

Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received by the signal analyzer should only contain the same PN23 signals that were sent in the U-Plane, that is the PN23 sequence in the first 16 PRBs, nothing in the next 16 PRBs and the remainder of the PN23 sequence in RBGs 2-17.

##### UC Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using Non-contiguous PRB Allocation Section Extension 3GPP UL – Resource Allocation

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to validate the capability of interpreting the section extension 6, non-contiguous PRB allocation to the basic uplink test.

Validate correct uplink operation of the O-RU using 3GPP Reference Sensitivity level definition (clause 7.2 ETSI TS 138.141-1) of the Conducted Receiver Characteristic Test (clause 7 ETSI TS 138.141) and power Levels at least 30 dB above Reference Sensitivity power Level described in ETSI TS 138.141-1 table 7.2.5-1.  This is to improve the likelihood that all data will be received by the radio correctly since we are not interested in testing receiver sensitivity but only the O-RAN protocol compliance. C-Plane messages will contain 2 symbols with the same set of non-contiguous PRBs referenced to test both the symbolMask and the rbgMask.

Using an RF source, the test equipment will generate a 3GPP test signal as shown in Figure 3.2.3.1-11 above.  The radio will demodulate and decode this signal and send frequency domain IQ to the O-DU-Emulator as instructed by the O-DU-emulator using uplink C-Plane messages containing section extension 6.  Note this signal has 20 slots with all symbols populated with only uplink shared data in the only first 51 RBs.  The symbols are populated with PN23 data.

The TER (Test Equipment, O-RU) generates an uplink signal on the antenna connector or TAB connector, together with the corresponding C-Plane messages on the Fronthaul interface.

The TER will capture the U-Plane messages generated by the DUT and validate if the payload matches with the uplink signal.

It applies to the O-RAN CUS Specification [2]:

- Clause 7.4
- Clause 8.3.2
- Clause 8.3.3
Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.1 of this document.  The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in ETSI TS 138.141-1 clause G-FR1-A1-5.  It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors. The radio must report that it supports section extension type 6, non-contiguous PRB allocations.  Note this signal may be changed to any of the 3GPP sensitivity test signals in table A.1-1 in ETSI TS 138.141-1 if the radio does not support the numerology and bandwidth used in this test.  The test signal described in this section will be used if the radio supports that numerology and bandwidth.

Test Methodology

Leverage from the well-known payload (Pseudo Random sequence) of the uplink signal to compare it with the payload of the signal communicated on the O-RAN interface. The IQ information is extracted from the U-Plane message and demodulated to retrieve payload.

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.  Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna port and configure the source to transmit the required 3GPP test signal upon receiving a trigger signal from the CUSM-E.  The signal source power level should be adjusted to at least 30 dB above the setting used in the 3GPP receiver sensitivity test.

Procedure

Load uplink test waveform (G-FR1-A1-5 : SCS130k_51RB) on the RF signal source.  Note this signal should contain a new PN23 sequence as user data in PRBs 0 through 51 for symbols 6 and 7.  The remainder of the test waveform may be left unallocated or allocated as described in 3GPP.

Configure signal source to play test waveforms on 10ms frame boundaries starting when it receives a trigger signal from the O-DU emulator that C-Plane messages have been sent.

Load C-Plane message sequence on Test Equipment O-RU (TER) – Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal. For this test symbols number 6 and 7 will be used in each slot.  The starting PRB will be zero and number of PRBs will be 51.  The resource block group size will be 8.  Using the calculations in the O-RAN CUS Specification [2], clause 7.7.6, the ID of the last RBG will be 6, f(0) will be 8, f(n) will be 8 and f(lastRbgID) will be 3.  StartPrbc will be zero and numPrbc will be 51.

If symbols other than #6 and #7 are allocated, every symbol should be described by multiple type 1 section (DL-SCH and DCI) except symbols #6 and #7 which will be used for the section extension 6 test. The data in symbol #6 is expected to be a new PN23 sequence starting in the first PRB and continuing to PRB 48 (RBG number 2).  Symbol #7 should be identical to symbol #6.  The rbgMask value should be set to 0x000007D  and the symbolMask value should be set to 00000011000000b.  No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.

Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul Messages

Launch test to play the C-Plane messages and trigger the source to play the RF signal on a frame boundary.

Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the Antenna port

Extract IQ information

Extract Payload

Compare payload binary sequences

Test Requirement (expected result)

The verdict is “Test pass” if the test frame received by the signal analyzer contains the same PN23 signals that were sent in the U-Plane, that is the PN23 sequence in the first 16 PRBs, nothing in the next 16 PRBs and the remainder of the PN23 sequence in RBGs 2 (Next 16 PRBs).

If any of the test conditions is not true, the verdict for the whole test is "Fail".

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Section Extension 10 – Multiple Port Grouping DL – Resource allocation

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can accurately interpret C-Plane resource allocation messages when section extension 10 is supported by the radio, transfer U-Plane data into the correct resource blocks and transmit this data accurately in the downlink.  This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required).  The test will be conducted therefore there will be no channel distortion or interference.  Note the purpose of this test is not to test the use of section extension 10 with either section extension 1 or 2 (Real time beam weights or attributes) since these are special conditions.  There are four versions of beam groupings: Common Beam, beam matrix indication, beam vector listing and beamId/ueId listing with associated port-list index.  Each of these will be tested.  The beamforming measurements will be conducted using the method described in clause 3.2.3.2.3 and 3.2.3.2.4 (Predefined beamforming).

Using a standard 3GPP NR-FR1-TM1.1 test frame for FDD the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink the standard NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal.  This signal is shown below in Figure 3.2.3.1-12.

This test frame consists of a PDCCH in the first two symbols of every slot consisting of 3 PRBs.  All the remaining PRBs in the frame consist of Physical Downlink Shared Channel data. This test requires non-zero data (PN23 Sequence)  to populate all allocated resource blocks.  This configuration corresponds to stock data section A in all symbols that do not contain PDCCH channels.

For this test the O-RU will indicate the default eAxC ID to use indicating this port grouping as well as the number of ports in this grouping, call this value nPG.

Test Entrance Criteria

The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in clause NR-FR1-TM1.1.  It will be for 5G New Radio only.

There will be numPortc “layers” or eAxCs referred to in the test.  That is there will be one C-Plane message referencing the port group eAxC ID obtained from the M-Plane but numPortc U-Plane messages. For Test Case#4, (beamGroupType = 11b, beamId/ueId listing with associated port-list index), O-RU will advertise over M-Plane support for Section Extension 10, beamGroupType = 11b by setting the flag se-10-bgt-11b-supported = TRUE.

Manufacturers’ must provide their defined list of beam indices and their associated magnitude and phase relation between antenna ports or TAB connectors and/or beam directions with antenna array characteristics.

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.  Connect the signal analyzer to the O-RU antenna ports being tested and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.  Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.  Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator.  Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane message that describes the signal.  This message should include section extension 10. Note the test will be performed four times exercising all four beam group types. Every symbol should be described by a single section (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. The data in the sections must be a PN23 sequence using an initial seed of all ones. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.  Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages for each layer (i.e. numPortc repetitions).

Test case #1 (beamGroupType = 00b, Common Beam):

For this test the beamGroupType parameter should be set to 00b. It is expected that all layers will be played on the same beam ID and this is the beam ID used in the corresponding C-Plane message. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1.  Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.  Use the signal analyzer to decode at least two beams and ensure they are the same.

Test case #2 (beamGroupType = 01b, beam matrix indication):

For this test the beamGroupType parameter should be set to 01b. It is expected that all layers will be played on consecutive beam IDs starting with the beam ID in the C-Plane message. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1.  Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.  Use the signal analyzer to decode at least two beams and ensure they meet the consecutive beam criteria.

Test case #3 (beamGroupType = 10b, beam vector listing):

For this test the beamGroupType parameter should be set to 10b. In this case the section extension should list “numPortc” beam IDs in section extension 10.  It is expected that all layers will be played on the beam IDs indicated in the section extension. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1.  Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.  Use the signal analyzer to decode at least two beams and ensure they agree with the beam vector listing.

Test case #4 (beamGroupType = 11b, beamId/ueId listing with associated port-list index):

For this test the beamGroupType parameter should be set to 11b. With the usage of this beamGroupType, O-DU can pick arbitrary eAxC-ID value(s)  from the M-Plane configured port-list and specify the associated beamId/ueId in the section extension. Hence, in this case the section extension should list “numPortc” value equal to the number of “portListIndex” values in the section extension. Each “portListIndex” indicates the index of an eAxC-ID in the port-list. It is expected that only the layers associated with specified “portListIndex” will be played on the beam IDs indicated in the section extension. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1.  Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.  Use the signal analyzer to decode at least two beams and ensure they agree with the beam vector listing.

Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received by the signal analyzer should be the same as the signal described above.

If it contains all the same PRB assignments and data, and the beams are measured as described in test cases #1 through #3 above the test passes.

##### UC Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended multiple port grouping using section extension 10 UL– Resource Allocation

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to validate the capability of interpreting the section extension 10, multiple port groupings in the basic uplink test.

Validate correct uplink operation of the O-RU using 3GPP Reference Sensitivity level definition (Section 7.2 ETSI TS 138.141-1) of the Conducted Receiver Characteristic Test section (Section 7 ETSI TS 138.141) and power Levels at least 30 dB above Reference Sensitivity power Level described in ETSI TS 138.141-1 table 7.2.5-1.  This is to improve the likelihood that all data will be received by the radio correctly since we are not interested in testing receiver sensitivity but only the O-RAN protocol compliance. Note the purpose of this test is not to test the use of section extension 10 with either section extension 1 or 2 (Real time beam weights or attributes) since these are special conditions.  There are four versions of beam groupings: Common Beam, beam matrix indication,  beam vector listing and beamId/ueId listing with associated port-list index.  Each of these will be tested.  The beamforming measurements will be conducted using the method described in clause 3.2.3.2.3 and 3.2.3.2.4 (Predefined beamforming).

Only Section Type 1 messages will be used in this test.

Using an RF source, the test equipment will generate a 3GPP test signal as shown in Figure 3.2.3.1-13 above.  The radio will demodulate and decode this signal and send frequency domain IQ to the O-DU-Emulator as instructed by the O-DU-emulator using uplink C-Plane messages containing section extension 10.  Note this signal has 20 slots with all symbols populated with only uplink shared channel data in the only first 51 RBs.  The symbols are populated with PN23 data.

The TER (Test Equipment, O-RU) generates an uplink signal on the antenna connectors or TAB connectors, together with the corresponding C-Plane messages on the Fronthaul interface.

The TER will capture the U-Plane messages generated by the DUT and validate if the payload matches with the uplink signal.

It applies to the O-RAN CUS Specification [2]:

- Clause 7.4
- Clause 8.3.2
- Clause 8.3.3
Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.1 of this document.  The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in ETSI TS 138.141-1 clause G-FR1-A1-5.  It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors. The radio must report that it supports section extension type 10, multiple port groupings. For Test Case#4, (beamGroupType = 11b, beamId/ueId listing with associated port-list index), O-RU will advertise over M-Plane support for Section Extension 10, beamGroupType = 11b by setting the flag se-10-bgt-11b-supported = TRUE.   Note this signal may be changed to any of the 3GPP sensitivity test signals in table A.1-1 in ETSI TS 138.141-1 if the radio does not support the numerology and bandwidth used in this test.  The test signal described in this section will be used if the radio supports that numerology and bandwidth. Manufacturers’ must provide their defined list of beam indices and their associated magnitude and phase relation between antenna ports or TAB connectors and/or beam directions with antenna array characteristics.

Test Methodology

Leverage from the well-known payload (Pseudo Random sequence) of the uplink signal to compare it with the payload of the signal communicated on the O-RAN interface. The IQ information is extracted from the U-Plane message and demodulated to retrieve payload. Signals will be applied to connector ports emulating the phase and amplitude corresponding to the associated beam ID direction or phase relationship provided by the manufacturer.

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.  Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna ports that belong to the beam under test and configure the source to transmit the required 3GPP test signal upon receiving a trigger signal from the CUSM-E.  Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.  The signal source power level should be adjusted to at least 30 dB above the setting used in the 3GPP receiver sensitivity test. Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range

Procedure

Load uplink test waveform (G-FR1-A1-5 : SCS130k_51RB) on the RF signal source.  Note this signal should contain a new PN23 sequence as user data in PRBs 0 through 51 for symbols 6 and 7.  The remainder of the test waveform is as described in 3GPP.

Configure signal source to play test waveforms on 10ms frame boundaries starting when it receives a trigger signal from the O-DU emulator that C-Plane messages have been sent.

Inject the test signal into the O-RU with the application of an initial set of beamweights, or equivalently magnitude and phase relation, between all the TER ports connected to the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) to emulate the phase and magnitude difference “seen” by the antenna elements under test. For example, initial beamweights could be set to be “all equal” (i.e. no beamforming).

Load C-Plane message sequence on Test Equipment O-RU (TER) – Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane message (Single C-Plane message) that describes the signal. For this test symbols number 6 and 7 will be used in each slot.

Every symbol should be described by a single type 1 section (DL-SCH and DCI) except symbols #6 and #7 which will be used as the payload data. The data in symbol #6 is expected to be a new PN23 sequence starting in the first PRB and continuing to PRB 51.  Symbol #7 should be identical to symbol #6. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.  The C-Plane message should include section extension 10 with numPortc equal to what was received on the M-Plane at startup.  The eAxC ID should be the group eAxC ID also received from the M-Plane.  Run the test four times using:

Test Case #1 (beamGroupType = 00b, Common Beam): All layers should have the same beam ID.  The signal sent by the source should correspond to the same beam ID.  It is expected that the source is connected to at least two port groups to ensure the same beam is being used.

Test Case #2 (beamGroupType = 01b, beam matrix indication): All layers should have consecutive beam IDs starting with the beam ID in the C-Plane message.  The signal sent by the source should correspond to the consecutive beam IDs.  It is expected that the source is connected to at least two port groups to ensure the consecutive beams are being used.

Test Case #3 (beamGroupType = 10b, beam vector listing): All layers will be assigned beam IDs based on the list of beam IDs contained in the section extension.  The number of beam IDs must be equal to numPortc.  The signal sent by the source should correspond to the signalled beam IDs.  It is expected that the source is connected to at least two port groups to ensure that the correct beams are being used.

Test case #4 (beamGroupType = 11b, beamId/ueId listing with associated port-list index):

For this test the beamGroupType parameter should be set to 11b. With the usage of this beamGroupType, O-DU can pick arbitrary eAxC-ID value(s)  from the M-Plane configured port-list and specify the associated beamId/ueId in the section extension. Hence, in this case the section extension should list “numPortc” value equal to the number of “portListIndex” values in the section extension. Each “portListIndex” indicates the index of an eAxC-ID in the port-list. The signal sent by the source should correspond to the signalled beam IDs associated with eAxC-ID indexed by specified “portListIndex”.  It is expected that the source is connected to at least two port groups to ensure that the correct beams are being used.

Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul Messages

Launch test to play the C-Plane message and trigger the source to play the RF signal on a frame boundary. Respect all timing windows.

Signal the signal source that C-Plane messages have been sent to allow it to start sending RF.  Respect all timing windows.

Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the Antenna port

Extract IQ information

Extract Payload

Compare payload binary sequences

Test Requirement (expected result)

The test frame received by the signal analyzer must contain the same PN23 signals that were sent in the U-Plane.

The beamweights or magnitude and phase relation at the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) of the test signal that achieves the best performance (i.e. highest EVM, power, SNR, etc.) should match the manufacturer’s declaration of the beam under test.  If this is also true, the test passes.

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended 3GPP DL – Resource allocation – Coupling C and U plane via Frequency and Time

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL  MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can accurately interpret C-Plane resource allocation messages, transfer U-Plane data into the correct resource blocks and transmit this data accurately in the downlink when the radio reports it supports the option feature of coupling C and U plane messages via frequency and time.  This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required).  The test will be conducted therefore there will be no channel distortion or interference.  It is mandatory the radio pass this test if it reports it supports coupling C and U plane via time and frequency.

Using a standard 3GPP NR-FR1-TM1.1 test frame for FDD the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink the standard NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal.  This signal is shown below in Figure 3.2.3.1-14.

This test frame consists of a PDCCH in the first two symbols of every slot consisting of 3 PRBs.  All the remaining PRBs in the frame consist of Physical Downlink Shared Channel data. This test requires non-zero data (PN23 Sequence)  to populate all allocated resource blocks.  This configuration corresponds to stock data section A in all symbols that do not contain PDCCH channels.

Test Entrance Criteria

The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in section NR-FR1-TM1.1.  It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors.

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.  Connect the signal analyzer to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.  This test is only applicable if the radio reports it supports coupling C and U plane via time and frequency.

Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator.  Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal. Every symbol should be described by a single section (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. The data in the sections must be a PN23 sequence using an initial seed of all ones. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.  Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1.  Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.

In this test the C-Plane messages will contain valid values in the following fields:

- EAxC ID
- Datadirection bit (Downlink)
- Frame ID, subframeID, slotID, startsymbolID, and NumSymbol
- SectionID must have a value 4095
- SymInc, rb reMask and section extension #6 are not used in this test
The U-Plane messages generated by the TER must match those values used in the C-Plane corresponding o the section described in the C-plane but the value of sectionID will be 4095.

Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received by the signal analyzer should be the same as the signal described above.  If it contains all the same PRB assignments and data, the test passes.

##### UC-Plane O-RU Base Class FDD Test UL – Coupling C and U plane via time and frequency

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can meet the most basic uplink requirements for O-RAN fronthaul correctly interpreting C-Plane messages and correctly constructing uplink U-Plane messages from an RF signal when the radio reports it supports C and U plane coupling via time and frequency.

The test validates that correct uplink operation of the O-RU using 3GPP Reference Sensitivity level definition (Clause 7.2 ETSI TS 138.141-1) of the Conducted Receiver Characteristic Test (clause 7  ETSI TS 138.141) and power Levels at least 30 dB above Reference Sensitivity power Level described in  ETSI TS 138.141-1 Table 7.2.5-1.  This is to improve the likelihood that all data will be received by the radio correctly since we are not interested in testing receiver sensitivity but only the O-RAN protocol compliance.

This signal is described by table A.1-1 in ETSI TS 138.141-1 and is referred to as G-FR1-A1-5 with the power increased to up to 30 dB above that described in Table 7.2.5-1.  Under those conditions, a 3GPP compliant O-RU should deliver uplink U-Plane information that matches the uplink signal.

The TER (Test Equipment, O-RU) generates an uplink signal on the antenna connector or TAB connector, together with the corresponding C-Plane messages on the Fronthaul interface.

The TER will capture the U-Plane messages generated by the DUT and validate whether the payload matches the uplink signal.

It applies to the O-RAN CUS Specification [2]:

- Clause 7.4
- Clause 8.3.2
- Clause 8.3.3
Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.1 of this document.  The O-RU must indicate it supports coupling C and U plane via time and frequency. The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in ETSI TS 138.141-1 clause G-FR1-A1-5.  It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors. Note this signal may be changed to any of the 3GPP sensitivity test signals in table A.1-1 in ETSI TS 138.141-1 if the radio does not support the numerology and bandwidth used in this test.  The test signal described in this clause will be used if the radio supports that numerology and bandwidth.

Test Methodology

Leverage from the well-known payload (PN23 sequence) of the uplink signal to compare it with the payload of the signal communicated on the O-RAN interface. The IQ information is extracted from the U-Plane message and demodulated to retrieve payload.

a: Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.  Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna port and configure the source to transmit the required 3GPP test signal upon receiving a trigger signal from the CUSM-E.  The signal source power level should be adjusted to at least 30 dB above the setting used in the 3GPP receiver sensitivity test.

b: Procedure

Load uplink test waveform (G-FR1-A1-5 : SCS30k_51RB) on the RF signal source

Configure signal source to play test waveforms on 10ms frame boundaries starting when it receives a trigger signal from the O-DU emulator that C-Plane messages have been sent.

Load C-Plane message sequence on Test Equipment O-RU (TER) C-Plane messages will contain valid values in the following fields:

- EAxC ID
- Datadirection bit (Uplink)
- Frame ID, subframeID, slotID, startsymbolID, and NumSymbol
- SectionID must have a value 4095
- SymInc, rb reMask and section extension #6 are not used in this test
Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul Messages

Launch test to play the RF uplink frame after the C-Plane messages have been sent honoring timing windows

Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the Antenna port

TER will arrange U-Plane messages according to time and frequency

Extract IQ information

Extract Payload

Compare payload binary sequences

Test Requirement (expected result)

The verdict is “Test pass” if the payload binary sequences match between the uplink test frame sent to the DUT and the received U-Plane data from the DUT

If any of the test conditions are not true, the verdict for the whole test is "Fail"

##### UC- Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended 3GPP DL – Resource allocation – Section Description Priorities

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL  MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can accurately interpret C-Plane resource allocation messages, transfer U-Plane data into the correct resource blocks and transmit this data accurately in the downlink when the radio reports it supports the option feature of coupling C and U plane messages via frequency and time and Section Description Priorities.  This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required).  The test will be conducted therefore there will be no channel distortion or interference.  It is mandatory the radio pass this test if it reports it supports coupling C and U plane via time and frequency.  Note, there are two versions of this feature: coupling C and U plane messages via frequency and time and Section Description Priorities and coupling C and U plane messages via frequency and time and Section Description Priorities (optimized).  This test requires both tests to be performed if the radio supports both methods otherwise only one test is to be performed if the radio only supports one of these methods.  These methods are listed under test methodology below.

Using a standard 3GPP NR-FR1-TM1.1 test frame for FDD the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink the standard NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal with exceptions noted in the test procedure.  This signal is shown below in Figure 3.2.3.1-16 .

This test frame consists of a PDCCH in the first two symbols of every slot consisting of 3 PRBs.  All the remaining PRBs in the frame consist of Physical Downlink Shared Channel data. This test requires non-zero data (PN23 Sequence)  to populate all allocated resource blocks.  This configuration corresponds to stock data section A in all symbols that do not contain PDCCH channels.

Test Entrance Criteria

The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in clause NR-FR1-TM1.1.  It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors.

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.  Connect the signal analyzer to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.  This test is only applicable if the radio reports it supports coupling C and U plane via time and frequency and Section Description Priority (including the optimized version).

Procedure for Coupling C and U plane messages via frequency and time with section priorities

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above and below in the O-DU emulator.  Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal. Every symbol should be described by a single section (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. The data in the sections must be a PN23 sequence using an initial seed of all ones. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.  Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1.  Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.

| # | Section ext 6 | priority | symbolMask | startPrbc | numPrbc | reMask | rbgMask | beamId | numSymbol | Note |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | yes | +1 | 00000000000100 | 0 | 192 | 010001000100 | 0xFFFFC00 | CSI reference signal (CSI-RS) |  |  |
| 2 | yes | +1 | 00100000000000 | 0 | 192 | 010001000100 | 0xFFFFC00 | 1 | CSI reference signal (CSI-RS) |  |
| 3 | no | 0 | 11111000000000 Not used in this section without section extension 6. Just shown for information | 273 | 111111111111 | N/A | 100 | 5 | UE1 |  |
| 4 | yes | 0 | 00000000001100 | 15 | 32 | 111111111111 | 0x6000000 | 200 | 2 | UE2 |
| 5 | no | 0 | 00000111110000 Not used in this section without section extension 6. Just shown for information | 31 | 48 | 111111111111 | N/A | 300 | UE3 |  |
| 6 | no | 0 | 00000000000011 Not used in this section without section extension 6. Just shown for information | 10 | 2 | 111111111111 | N/A | 3 | Special channel |  |

In this test the section configuration will be as shown in Table 3.2.3-3 above.  The 6 sections will comprise one slot and this slot will be repeated continuously to synchronize the TER signal analyzer.  The six sections will be sent on one C-Plane message using C and U plane coupling via time and frequency.  The configuration above follows the example given in the CUSM specification.

The section numbers in the above table do not represent SectionID numbers but individual sections. Sections #1 and #2 describe hypothetical CSI-RS signals sent in symbols #2 and #11 in each slot.  These signals have sub-carriers masked by reMask.  The CSI-RS signals generation follows ETSI TS 138.211 V16.2.0 (or after), clause 7.4.1.5 with nID  = 0, row 1, N=1 and L=1.  These sections use section extension 6 and contain a higher priority than all other sections.

Section #3 describes PN23 data sent to hypothetical UE #1 it overlaps REs in sections #1 and #2 but has a lower priority so sections #1 and #2 are valid.  Since section #3 has contiguous symbols section extension 6 is not needed.

Section #4 is for hypothetical UE #2.  It shares symbol 2 with the CSI-RS signal in Section #1.  Since the symbols are not contiguous, it uses section extension 6 but the priority is set to the default 0.

Section #5 is for hypothetical UE #3 and uses a contiguous set of symbols so section extension 6 is not needed.  It does not overlap any other signals.  This section is optional because it does not test Section Description Priority.

Section #6 is a hypothetical special channel using two symbols and does not require section extension 6.  This section is also optional.

U-Plane messages will contain:

- CSI-RS signals as described by section #1 for symbol #2
- CSI-RS signals as described by section #2 for symbol #11
- A new PN23 sequence in each of the last 5 symbols as described in section #3.  Note that for symbol #11 the PN sequence will be pierced by the CSI-RS signals.
- A new PN23 sequence for symbol #2 as described by section #4 as well as a new PN sequence for symbol #3.  These sequences are only 32 PRBs long and start in PRB 15. The sequence in symbol #2 will be pierced by CSI-RS signals.
- The user data for sections number #5 and #6 are standard PN23 sequences only for these symbols and PRBs described in the table above.
Procedure for Coupling C and U plane messages via frequency and time with section priorities (optimized)

This test will be identical to the above test with the following exceptions:

- There will be two C-Plane messages describing the downlink signal to be sent.
- The first two sections listed in the table above (those with higher priorities) will be repeated in both C-Plane messages and will have a section ID equal to a value between 0 and “max-highest-priority-sections-per-slot” as sent on the M-Plane.
- The other sections will be divided between the two C-Plane messages and not repeated.
- The repeated C-plane message will have the “repetition” bit set to one.
Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received by the signal analyzer should be the same PRB assignment and data as the signal described above.

The beamweights or magnitude and phase relation at the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) of the test signal that achieves the highest performance (i.e. best EVM, power, SNR, etc.) should match with the manufacturer’s declaration of the beam under test that has been assigned to each section described above.  The procedure for this beamforming test is the same as test 3.2.3.2.3 (UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Predefined-beam Beamforming).  This result is applicable for either or both forms of this test.

##### (VOID)

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using Non-contiguous PRB Allocation Section Extension 12 3GPP DL – Resource Allocation

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can correctly decode and interpret C-Plane and U-Plane messages putting resource block in the correct place in the transmitted signal using the extension type 12. In this test stock data section definition C will be used to exercise the non-contiguous RB allocation, all 273 PRBs (or the maximum number of PRBs per symbol for the highest numerology the radio supports) will be used in this test.

Using a standard 3GPP NR-FR1-TM1.1 test frame for FDD the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink the standard NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal with the modifications described below (supporting non-contiguous PRB allocation).  The standard 3GPP NR-FR1-TM1.1 is shown in Figure 3.2.3.1-17 below:

Figure 3.2.3.1-17 3GPP NR-FR1-TM1.1 Test Signal

This generic NR-FR1-TM1.1 test frame consists of a PDCCH in the first two symbols of every slot consisting of 3 PRBs.  All the remaining PRBs in the frame consist of Physical Downlink Shared Channel data.

This test requires non-zero data to populate all allocated resource blocks.  This data will be a PN23 sequence with a seed value of all ones as described below.

This test will utilize stock data section definition C described above with the following exception.  This data section will include user data in the first RB group, the second group will be blank and the remainder of the RBGs contain user data.  This stock data section will be repeated over two symbols to test the SymMask parameter.

Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.1  of this document.  The default test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in clause NR-FR1-TM1.1.  It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors.  The Radio must support the extension type 12 as notified by the M-Plane.  The signal analyzer must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel.

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.  Connect the signal analyzer to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

Procedure

For this test only symbols number 6 and 7 will be used in each slot.  Other symbols may contain data including reference signals to ensure test equipment can synchronize with the signal.  The starting PRB will be zero and number of PRBs will be chosen from one or more columns in Table 3.2.3-5 Stock Data Sections below.  The resource block group size will be 16 based on ETSI TS 138.214 Table 5.1.2.2.1-1 as shown in Table 3.2.3-4 below using configuration 2.

| Bandwidth Part Size | Configuration 1 | Configuration 2 |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 1 – 36 | 2 | 4 |
| 37 – 72 | 4 | 8 |
| 73 – 144 | 8 | 16 |
| 145 – 275 | 16 |  |

Table 3.2.3-4 Resource Block Group Size

Using the calculations in O-RAN CUS Specification [2], clause 7.7.6, for the test waveform described above, the ID of the last RBG will be 17, f(0) will be 16, f(n) will be 16 and f(lastRbgID) will be 1 (17 total RBGs).  StartPrbc will be zero and numPrbc will be 273.  If the radio does not support this numerology the following table will apply.  The number of PRBs correspond to Table 3.2.3-2 Stock Data Sections:

| # PRBs per Symbol (11-79) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| max PRB/sym | 11 | 24 | 25 | 32 | 50 | 51 | 52 | 65 | 66 | 79 |
| numPRBc | 11 | 24 | 25 | 32 | 50 | 51 | 52 | 65 | 66 | 79 |
| rbgSize | 4 | 8 | 16 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| lastRbgID | 2 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 4 |  |  |  |  |
| f(0) | 4 | 8 | 16 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| f(n) | 4 | 8 | 16 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| F(lastRbgID) | 3 | 4 | 1 | 2 | 15 |  |  |  |  |  |

| # PRBs per Symbol (100-273) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| max PRB/sym | 100 | 106 | 107 | 132 | 133 | 135 | 162 | 217 | 270 | 273 |
| numPRBc | 100 | 106 | 107 | 132 | 133 | 135 | 162 | 217 | 270 | 273 |
| rbgSize | 16 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| lastRbgID | 6 | 8 | 10 | 13 | 16 | 17 |  |  |  |  |
| f(0) | 16 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| f(n) | 16 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| F(lastRbgID) | 4 | 10 | 11 | 5 | 7 | 2 | 9 | 14 | 1 |  |

Table 3.2.3-5 Stock Data Sections

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator.  Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal. Every symbol should be described by a single type 1 section (DL-SCH and DCI) except symbols

#6 and #7 which will be used for the section extension 12 test. The data in symbol #6 should be a new PN23 sequence starting in the first PRB and continuing to PRB 273 (RBG number 17).  Symbol #7 should be identical to symbol #6.  The symMask value should be set to 00000011000000b.  No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.  The parameters for the default test signal are shown below:

The O-DU emulator will build a U-Plane message containing the PN23 IQ data for the first 16 PRBs (RBG 0), this message will have the section ID used in the C-Plane message described above.  Another U-Plane message will be created using the same section ID but with the PN23 data for RBGs 2-17 in it.  The same U-Plane messages will be used for symbol #7.

Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received by the signal analyzer should only contain the same PN23 signals that were sent in the U-Plane, that is the PN23 sequence in the first 16 PRBs, nothing in the next 16 PRBs and the remainder of the PN23 sequence in RBGs 2-17, or the pattern appropriate for the numerology if a different numerology is chosen as noted above.

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to validate the capability of interpreting the section extension 12, non-contiguous PRB allocation to the basic uplink test.

Validate correct uplink operation of the O-RU using 3GPP Reference Sensitivity level definition (Section 7.2  ETSI TS 138.141-1) of the Conducted Receiver Characteristic Test (clause 7  ETSI TS 138.141) and power Levels at least 30 dB above Reference Sensitivity power Level described in  ETSI TS 138.141-1 table 7.2.5-1.  This is to improve the likelihood that all data will be received by the radio correctly since we are not interested in testing receiver sensitivity but only the O-RAN protocol compliance. C-Plane messages will contain 2 symbols with the same set of non-contiguous PRBs referenced to test both the symMask and the offStartPrb parameters.

Figure 3.2.3.1-18 G-FR1-A1-5 UL FDD Test Signal

Using an RF source, the test equipment will generate a 3GPP test signal as shown in Figure 3.2.3.1-18 above.  The radio will demodulate and decode this signal and send frequency domain IQ to the O-DU-Emulator as instructed by the O-DU-emulator using uplink C-Plane messages containing section extension 12.  Note this signal has 20 slots with all symbols populated with only uplink shared data in the only first 48 RBs.  The symbols are populated with PN23 data.

The TER (Test Equipment, O-RU) generates an uplink signal on the antenna connector or TAB connector, together with the corresponding C-Plane messages on the Fronthaul interface.

The TER will capture the U-Plane messages generated by the DUT and validate if the payload matches with the uplink signal.

It applies to the O-RAN CUS Specification [2]:

- Clause 7.4
- Clause 8.3.2
- Clause 8.3.3
Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.1 of this document.  The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in section ETSI TS 138.141-1 section G-FR1-A1-5.  It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors. The radio must report that it supports section extension type 12, non-contiguous PRB allocations.  Note this signal may be changed to any of the 3GPP sensitivity test signals in table A.1-1 in ETSI TS 138.141-1 if the radio does not support the numerology and bandwidth used in this test.  The test signal described in this section will be used if the radio supports that numerology and bandwidth.

Test Methodology

Leverage from the well-known payload (Pseudo Random sequence) of the uplink signal to compare it with the payload of the signal communicated on the O-RAN interface. The IQ information is extracted from the U-Plane message and demodulated to retrieve payload.

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.  Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna port and configure the source to transmit the required 3GPP test signal upon receiving a trigger signal from the CUSM-E.  The signal source power level should be adjusted to at least 30 dB above the setting used in the 3GPP receiver sensitivity test.

Procedure

Load uplink test waveform (G-FR1-A1-5 : SCS130k_51RB) on the RF signal source.  Note this signal should contain a new PN23 sequence as user data in PRBs 0 through 50 for symbols 6 and 7.  The remainder of the test waveform is as described in 3GPP.

Configure signal source to play test waveforms on 10ms frame boundaries starting when it receives a trigger signal from the O-DU emulator that C-Plane messages have been sent.

Load C-Plane message sequence on Test Equipment O-RU (TER) – Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal. For this test symbols number 6 and 7 will be used in each slot.  The starting PRB will be zero and number of used PRBs will be 48.  The resource block group size will be 16.  Using the calculations in O-RAN CUS Specification [2] clause 7.7.6, the ID of the last RBG will be 17, f(0) will be 16, f(n) will be 16 and f(lastRbgID) will be 1.  Note, if the radio does not support this numerology a suitable replacement can be selected from the table below:

| # PRBs per Symbol (11-79) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| max PRB/sym | 11 | 24 | 25 | 32 | 50 | 51 | 52 | 65 | 66 | 79 |
| numPRBc | 11 | 24 | 25 | 32 | 50 | 51 | 52 | 65 | 66 | 79 |
| rbgSize | 4 | 8 | 16 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| lastRbgID | 2 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 4 |  |  |  |  |
| f(0) | 4 | 8 | 16 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| f(n) | 4 | 8 | 16 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| F(lastRbgID) | 3 | 4 | 1 | 2 | 15 |  |  |  |  |  |

| # PRBs per Symbol (100-273) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| max PRB/sym | 100 | 106 | 107 | 132 | 133 | 135 | 162 | 217 | 270 | 273 |
| numPRBc | 100 | 106 | 107 | 132 | 133 | 135 | 162 | 217 | 270 | 273 |
| rbgSize | 16 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| lastRbgID | 6 | 8 | 10 | 13 | 16 | 17 |  |  |  |  |
| f(0) | 16 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| f(n) | 16 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| F(lastRbgID) | 4 | 10 | 11 | 5 | 7 | 2 | 9 | 14 | 1 |  |

Table 3.2.3-6 Stock Data Sections

A single section ID will describe the non-contiguous resource allocation using section extension 12. The parameters to use for the example wave form are shown below:

Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul Messages

Launch test to play the C-Plane messages and trigger the source to play the RF signal on a frame boundary.

Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the Antenna port

Extract IQ information

Extract Payload

Compare payload binary sequences

Test Requirement (expected result)

The verdict is “Test pass” if the test frame received by the signal analyzer contains the same PN23 signals that were sent in the U-Plane, that is the PN23 sequence in the first 16 PRBs, nothing in the next 16 PRBs and the remainder of the PN23 sequence in RBG 2 (Next 16 PRBs).

If any of the test conditions is not true, the verdict for the whole test is "Fail"

##### UC Plane O-RU Base Class FDD Test UL – Static SRS allocation

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the O-RU can support static SRS configuration through the M-Plane.  This is an uplink only test so there is no corresponding downlink test for FDD.  The O-RU must report through the M-Plane that it supports static configuration of SRS.

The test will have the CUSM emulator configure the O-RU, through the M-Plane, with a section of time/frequency resources reserved for static uplink SRS.  The signal source will be programmed to send simulated SRS signals in a subset of those resources.  The O-RU should receive this SRS signals and pass them through to the CUSM emulator using U-Plane messages.  Note, there will be no C-Plane messages sent from the CUSM emulator and the O-RU.  The signal generator will signal power levels at least 30 dB above Reference Sensitivity power Level described in TS 138.141-1 Table 7.2.5-1.  This is to improve the likelihood that all data will be received by the radio correctly since we are not interested in testing receiver sensitivity but only the O-RAN protocol compliance.

The placement of the time frequency resources is not specified in this test so it may be placed anywhere in the frame.

The TER (Test Equipment, O-RU) generates an uplink SRS signal on the antenna connector or TAB connector. The TER will capture the U-Plane messages generated by the DUT and validate whether the payload matches the uplink signal as well as beam characteristics. The metric used to validate that the signal received by the CUSM emulator matches the signal sent by the signal generator will be EVM as described in Annex H.7 of ETSI TS 138.141.  While some 3GPP test documents (e.g.  ETSI TS 138.521 clause 6.4.2.1.3) suggest treating the EVM requirements for physical Zadoff-Chu sequences such as PRACH the same as QPSK for EVM requirements, this document will decrease the required EVM to the level specified for 64 QAM.  The purpose of this is to ensure that there is no chance of false positives where a random, mistaken signal sent by the O-RU closely mimics the test signal used by the TER.  Since there are no impairments made to the uplink SRS signal this should be well within the capabilities of the O-RU.

- Test Entrance Criteria
The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.1 of this document.  The O-RU must indicate it supports static SRS allocation. The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in ETSI TS 138.141-1 section G-FR1-A1-5.  It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors. Note this signal may be changed to any of the 3GPP sensitivity test signals in table A.1-1 in ETSI TS 138.141-1 if the radio does not support the numerology and bandwidth used in this test.  The test signal described in this clause will be used if the radio supports that numerology and bandwidth.

- Test Methodology
a: Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.  Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna port and configure the source to transmit the required SRS test signal upon receiving a trigger signal from the CUSM-E.  The signal source power level should be adjusted to at least 30 dB above the setting used in the 3GPP receiver sensitivity test.

Implicit in this Initial set up is statically configuring O-RU with a section of time/frequency resources for static SRS signals.

b: Procedure

Build an SRS signal in the signal generator that fits in the preconfigured time frequency resources set in the initial configuration.

Load the waveform into the signal source:

Configure signal source to play test waveforms on 10ms frame boundaries starting when it receives a trigger signal from the O-DU emulator that signals the start of a frame boundary.

Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul Messages

Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the Antenna port connected

TER will arrange U-Plane messages according to time and frequency

Start SRS waveform generation on the signal generator. Ensure the test frame is repeated enough times to generate a statistically significant number of SRS occasions. That is at least 10 occasions.

Extract IQ information

Calculate EVM of the SRS signal received by the CUSM emulator to the ideal signal generated by the signal source. Use the method described in  ETSI TS 138.141 Annex H.7 to perform the calculation.

- Test Requirement (expected result)
The verdict is “Test pass” if the calculated EVM is less than 8% as median EVM measured over the minimum number of SRS occasions of at least 10 occasions.

If any of the test conditions are not true, the verdict for the whole test is "Fail"

UC Plane O-RU Base Class FDD Test UL – Static PRACH allocation

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the O-RU can support static PRACH configuration through the M-Plane.  This is an uplink only test so there is no corresponding downlink test for FDD.  The O-RU must report through the M-Plane capabilities that it supports static configuration of PRACH.  The concept is to repeat test 3.2.3.8.1 (5GNR  PRACH test) without sending any C-Plane type 3 messages and configuring the O-RU using only the M-Plane.

TER will setup the signal generator with a PRACH test waveform according to  ETSI TS 138.141-1 clause 8.4.1 and A.6. The test waveform will contain the same preamble ID repeated by following the timing offset scheme specified in the figures 8.4.1.4.2-2 or 8.4.1.4.2-3  ETSI TS 138.141-1 depending on the selected PRACH format.

This is an example for FR1 – SCS=30 kHz – BW=100MHz – Format A3, at each occasion the time offset of the same preamble index (selected according to table A.6-1  ETSI TS 138.141.1) is incremented by 100nsec starting from 0 up to 800nsec (9 occasions per frame). Each PRACH occasion is at the beginning of the first nine used sub-frames. The scheme is repeated every frame.

Figure 3.2.3.1-19 FR1 SCS 30Kz 100MHz Format A3

According to the PRACH waveform setting, the TER will generate a corresponding sequence of M-Plane messages which include the following parameters (According to the M-Plane specification):

grouping static-prach-configuration

leaf pattern-period - "Period after which static PRACH patterns are repeated. Unit: number of frames."

leaf guard-tone-low-re - "Number of REs occupied by the low guard tones."

leaf num-prach-re - "Number of contiguous PRBs per data section description“

leaf guard-tone-high-re - "Number of REs occupied by the high guard tones.“

leaf sequence-duration - "Duration of single sequence of the PRACH. Sequence may be considered as 'single PRACH symbol’”

list prach-patterns - key prach-pattern-id - "Provides a PRACH pattern. Each record in the list represents a single PRACH occasion. Number of list entries cannot exceed max-prach-patterns“

leaf prach-pattern-id - "Supplementary parameter acting as key for prach-pattern list.“

leaf number-of-repetitions - "This parameter defines number of PRACH repetitions in PRACH occasion, to which the section control is applicable

leaf number-of-occasions - "This parameter informs how many consecutive PRACH occasions is described by the PRACH Pattern”

leaf re-offset – “Offset between the start of the lowest-frequency RE of the lowest frequency PRB and the start of the lowest frequency RE belonging to the PRACH occasion.  The re-offset is configured as number of PRACH REs.

list occasion-parameters – “list of cp-lengths, gp-lengths and beam-ids applicable per each PRACH occasion in PRACH pattern. NOTE: the number of records in this list MUST be equal to value of parameter number-of-occasions.“

leaf occasion-id - "Supplementary parameter acting as key in 'occasion-parameters' list“

leaf cp-length - "Cyclic prefix length. See CUS-Plane specification for detailed description.“

leaf gp-length - "Guard period length.“

leaf beam-id  - "This parameter defines the beam pattern to be applied to the U-Plane data. beamId = 0 means no beamforming operation will be performed."

leaf frame-number - "This parameter is an index inside the pattern-length, such that PRACH occasion is happening for SFN which fulfills following equation: [SFN mod pattern-length = frame-id]“

leaf sub-frame-id - "Identifier of sub-frame of the PRACH occasion. Value is interpreted in the same way as subframeId field in a section description of a C-Plane message.“

leaf time-offset - "This parameter defines the time-offset from the start of the sub-frame to the start of the first Cyclic Prefix of PRACH pattern"

By the corresponding U-Plane messages in the uplink direction, the TER will try to detect the presence of the corresponding preamble at the expected timing offset and calculate the probability of detection Pd according to the definition in TS38.141-1 clause 8.4.1.1.

The signal will be exercised at only one O-RU port without adding any external AWGN power level or multipath fading profile and at a power level avoiding detection errors due to poor SNR (rule described in the sub-section C of this scenario class).

The test will have the CUSM emulator configure the O-RU, through the M-Plane, with a section of time/frequency resources reserved for static uplink PRACH.  The default is the PRACH configuration described in 3GPP above but the test may be conducted with changes if the radio does not support those exact configurations.  The signal source will be programmed to send simulated PRACH signals in those resources.  The O-RU should receive this PRACH signal and pass them through to the CUSM emulator using U-Plane messages.  Note, there will be no C-Plane messages sent from the CUSM emulator and the O-RU.

Test Entrance Criteria

O-RU must have a conducted antenna port (FR1) or TAB connector.

By the M-plane, TER will detect all the supported SCSs, FFT sizes and carrier bandwidths by the O-RU. It is assumed that only one combination of the three above parameters supported by the O-RU is enough to validate the test. TER shall generate M-Plane messages according to one of the PRACH formats in table A.6-1  ETSI TS 138.141. TER will choose the format either according to the manufacturer declaration item D.103 “PRACH format and SCS” in  ETSI TS 138.141-1 or according to the format information obtained by the M-plane in case O-RU implements this feature. If more formats are claimed, only one shall be selected to reduce the test time, preference will be given to a format specified in Table A.6.1  ETSI TS 138.141. It is assumed that the O-RU manufacturer will support at least one in that table. For the case of long preambles, it is assumed format 0 is always supported since this is the only one shown in the table A.6-1  ETSI TS 138.141.

Test Methodology

a: Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.  Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna port and configure the source to transmit the required PRACH test signal upon receiving a trigger signal from the CUSM-E.

Implicit in this Initial set up is statically configuring O-RU with a section of time/frequency resources for static PRACH signals.

b: Procedure

Set signal generator power by the following method:

Select SNR from the scenario with two RX antennas and AWGN propagation condition in table 8.4.1.5-1, 8.4.1.5-2 or 8.4.1.5-3  ETSI TS 138.141-1 depending on the selected SCS and PRACH format.

Select the AWGN power level according to the configured SCS and channel bandwidth in table 8.4.1.4.2-1  ETSI TS 138.141-1 and 38.141-1and multiply by the PRACH signal bandwidth.

The output power will be given by the formula (SNR+Noise power – 3dB) rounded to the first decimal digit. Extra 3dB are to compensate that SNR and noise power are selected from the two RX ports test case and this test procedure requires only one O-RU port.

For example, for the FR1 – SCS=30 kHz – BW=100MHz – Format A3 SNR is -13.5dB and noise level is -70.1dBm/98.28MHz. signal generator power = -13.5dB -70.1dBm/98.28MHz*(139*30 kHz)-3dB =-19.5dBm.

Set signal generator frequency offset to the central carrier frequency. PRACH will be mapped over frequency according to msg1-FrequencyStart () parameter equal to 0. PRACH format is set according to what TER has selected from the manufacturer declarations.

Start PRACH waveform generation on the signal generator. Ensure the test frame is repeated enough times to generate a statistically significant number of PRACH occasions. That is at least 10 occasions.

TER will perform PRACH detection per each PRACH occasion in each frame sent and compare the result with the expected preamble ID and the expected timing offset. Since the external AWGN and fading generator are not present the time error tolerance should be low, TER will use the time error tolerance in table 8.4.1.1-1 for AWGN case according to the corresponding PRACH format and PRACH SCS. A counter of successful detections is incremented at every matching. The probability of detection is given by the ratio between that counter and the number of the expected received PRACH occasions within the test time.

Repeat the test procedure by setting msg1-FrequencyStart () parameter to the right edge of the configured carrier bandwidth in order to exercise a different frequency offset number

Test Requirement (expected result)

Test is pass if the probability of detection is 100% determined across the minimum amount of at least 10 occasions.

##### UC Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using section extension 13 for frequency hopping UL – Resource Allocation

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to validate the capability of the O-RU to correctly interpret section extension 13, frequency hopping, for the uplink.

This test will validate correct uplink operation of the O-RU using 3GPP Reference Sensitivity level definition (clause7.2  ETSI TS 138.141-1) of the Conducted Receiver Characteristic Test (clause 7  ETSI TS 138.141) and power Levels at least 30 dB above Reference Sensitivity power Level described in  ETSI TS 138.141-1 table 7.2.5-1.  This is to improve the likelihood that all data will be received by the radio correctly since we are not interested in testing receiver sensitivity but only the O-RAN protocol compliance. C-Plane message will reference 2 symbols using section extension 13.

Figure 3.2.3.1-20 G-FR1-A1-5 UL FDD Test Signal

Using an RF source, the test equipment will generate a 3GPP test signal as shown in Figure 3.2.3.1-20 above.  The radio will demodulate and decode this signal and send frequency domain IQ to the O-DU-Emulator as instructed by the O-DU-emulator using uplink C-Plane messages containing section extension 13.  Note this signal has 20 slots with all symbols populated with only uplink shared data in the only first 51 RBs.  The symbols are populated with PN23 data.

The TER (Test Equipment, O-RU) generates an uplink signal on the antenna connector or TAB connector, together with the corresponding C-Plane messages on the Fronthaul interface.

The TER will capture the U-Plane messages generated by the DUT and validate if the payload matches with the uplink signal.

It applies to the O-RAN CUS Specification [2]:

- Clause 7.4
- Clause 8.3.2
- Clause 8.3.3
Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.1 of this document.  The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in ETSI TS 138.141-1 clause G-FR1-A1-5.  It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors. The radio must report that it supports section extension type 13, frequency hopping.  Note this signal may be changed to any of the 3GPP sensitivity test signals in table A.1-1 in ETSI TS 138.141-1 if the radio does not support the numerology and bandwidth used in this test.  The test signal described in this section will be used if the radio supports that numerology and bandwidth.

Test Methodology

Leverage from the well-known payload (Pseudo Random sequence) of the uplink signal to compare it with the payload of the signal communicated on the O-RAN interface. The IQ information is extracted from the U-Plane message and demodulated to retrieve payload.

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.  Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna port and configure the source to transmit the required 3GPP test signal upon receiving a trigger signal from the CUSM-E.  The signal source power level should be adjusted to at least 30 dB above the setting used in the 3GPP receiver sensitivity test.

Procedure

Load uplink test waveform (G-FR1-A1-5 : SCS130k_51RB) on the RF signal source.  Note this signal should contain a new PN23 sequence as user data in PRBs 0 through 50 for symbol 6 and PRBs 100 through 151 for symbol 7.  This will be copied for all 20 slots. The remainder of the test waveform is as described in 3GPP.

Configure signal source to play test waveforms on 10ms frame boundaries starting when it receives a trigger signal from the O-DU emulator that C-Plane messages have been sent.

Load a C-Plane message on Test Equipment O-RU (TER) – Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane message that describes this uplink signal. This section should have  startSymbolId = 6, numPrbc = 51, and section extension 13 attached.  The section extension should have nextSymbolId = 7 and nextStartPrbc = 100.

Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul Messages

Launch test to play the C-Plane messages and trigger the source to play the RF signal on a frame boundary.

Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the Antenna port

Extract IQ information

Extract Payload

Compare payload binary sequences

Test Requirement (expected result)

The verdict is “Test pass” if the test frame received by the signal analyzer contains two U-Plane messages for this section ID one containing the PN23 sequence for the first 51 PRBs in symbol 6 and PRBs 100 through 151 for symbol #7 containing the PN23 sequence sent by the signal source for those PRBs.

#### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming (BFM)

This clause describes the beamforming conformance testing for O-RAN fronthaul interface. The tests do not aim to test the O-RU beamforming performance or capabilities but to test that the O-RU under test focuses the RF energy or sensitivity into a specific direction and with a specific granularity following the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) C-Plane messages.

Unless stated otherwise in a test case, the following statements apply to all the test cases defined in this clause:

It is based on conducted testing with a setup such as described in Clause 2.1 and it only applies to O-RU DUTs that have conducted antenna ports or TAB connectors.

It applies to  Category A and  Category B O-RU DUTs.

It applies to LTE and/or 5G New Radio O-RU DUTs.  In both cases, precoding is not required in any test case.

If O-RU DUT supports Analog Beamforming (i.e. time domain beamforming), all the U-Plane test frames are defined by segmenting the Stock Test A: 1 section per symbol.  The definition of this Stock Test A can be found in Figure 3.2.1.1-2 and the description accompanying this figure.  Each slot shall include multiple sections (one per symbol within the slot) and only one beam at a time (i.e. one beamId at a time) and therefore only one beam can be tested per slot.

If O-RU DUT supports Digital Beamforming (i.e. frequency domain beamforming), all the U-Plane test frames are defined by segmenting the Stock Test B: 2 sections per symbol definition as shown in Figure 3.2.1.1-2.  Each slot shall include multiple sections (two per symbol within the slot) and only one beam per section at a time (i.e. one beamId at a time) and therefore up to two different beams can be tested per slot.

If O-RU DUT supports multiple polarizations, it is up to the TER to determine if the testing is carried out for each polarization separately or multiple polarizations at the same time. In any case, it is important to guarantee that the correct eAxC_ID for the correct polarization (or polarizations) is exercised.

For O-RU DUT that support LTE:

Downlink tests will use a standard 3GPP E-TM1.1 test frame for FDD (Clause 6.1.1.1  ETSI TS 136.141-1) with 20MHz bandwidth (100 RB) as shown in Figure 3.2.3.2-1.

If 20MHz is not supported by the O-RU DUT, then it will use the highest bandwidth supported by the O-RU DUT.

Uplink test will use a standard 3GPP UL RMC Configuration definition for FDD (TS36.521-1) and power levels 30dB above Reference Sensitivity power level with 10MHz bandwidth (100 RB) as shown in Figure 3.2.3.2-2.

If 20MHz is not supported by the O-RU DUT, then it will use the highest bandwidth supported by the O-RU DUT.

For O-RU DUT that support 5G NR:

Downlink tests will use a standard 3GPP NR-FR1-TM1.1 test frame for FDD in [19] (clause 4.9.2 TS138.141-1) of the Conducted Transmitter Characteristic Test (clause 6 TS138.141-1) as described in clause 3.2.1.1. The test numerology will be preferably 30kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth. If not supported, then it will use any other supported subcarrier spacing and the highest bandwidth of the O-RU DUT.

Uplink tests will use a standard 3GPP Reference Sensitivity level definition (clause 7.2 and Annex A TS138.141-1) of the Conducted Receiver Characteristic Test (clause 7  ETSI TS 138.141) and power levels 30dB above Reference Sensitivity power level as described in clause 3.2.1.1.  The test numerology will be preferably 30kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth, if supported. Otherwise, it will use any available subcarrier space and the highest bandwidth supported by the O-RU DUT.

The O-RU DUT:

supports the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.1 of this document.

has installed current release of shipping software.

has at least two conducted antenna ports (or TAB connectors) to be connected to a signal analyzer. Likewise, it must have at least two conducted antenna ports or TAB connectors to be connected to a signal generator.

be fully calibrated up to the antenna ports or (TAB connectors) (if needed). It is expected to be calibrated by O-RU vendor prior to testing.

The TER:

is capable of carrying out any signal processing required to generate and demodulate 3GPP compliant waveforms.

is able to calculate or extract beamweights (or magnitude and phase relations) between antenna ports or TAB connectors. Alternatively, and if the O-RU DUT manufacturer provides the list of beam directions supported by the O-RU DUT, TER might calculate or extract the beam direction instead of the beamweights.

is able to generate and deliver signals with the required beamweights (or magnitude and phase relations) at the antenna ports or TAB connectors.

is fully calibrated up to the interfaces where is connected to the O-RU DUT antenna ports (or TAB connectors). For that, a known test signal might be either injected by the TER into the O-RU DUT, or internally generated by the O-RU DUT, and the O-RU DUT must not apply any digital or analog beamweights to the known test signal.  One possible method to perform calibration uses injected C-Plane and U-Plane signals from TER into the O-RU and using C-Plane messages with beamID=0.

The O-DU emulator of the TER:

is capable of generating and sending U-Plane messages containing 3GPP test frames following the corresponding Stock sectioning defined above, as well as be capable of capturing U-Plane messages and extracting 3GPP test frames (i.e. IQ data) from the captured U-Plane messages.

is capable of generating the C-Plane messages for, receiving, extracting and demodulating the 3GPP test frames following the corresponding Stock sectioning defined above.

For DMRS-BF tests, the TER setup modifications are:

RF Signal Generator / System which can be a combination of test equipment, or an integrated one, that provides all the testing capabilities needed:

RF Signal Generator capable of generating wanted signals (3GPP compliant SU-MIMO and MU-MIMO signals).

RF Signal Generator capable of generating Additive white Gaussian Noise and Interference signals. It can be a single device or multiple devices.

Beamformer to apply beam weights to each of the signals under tests

CUSM-Plane emulator with expanded capability:

is able to operate with and without reference Channel Estimation (CE) and Equalization (EQ) over the received signal from DUT (Uplink direction).

NOTE: The definition of the reference algorithms used for Channel Estimation and Equalization in the TER are not defined in the present document,

is capable of measuring and reporting EVM measurements after CE and EQ if receiving unequalized IQ data (when testing O-RU DUT with DMRS-BF-NEQ), or directly from received equalized IQ data (when testing O-RU DUT with DMRS-BF-EQ),

is capable of measuring and reporting BER and/or BLER measurements of the received signal from DUT (Uplink direction) after demapping and decoding,

NOTE: The definition of the reference algorithms used for demapping and decoding in the TER are not defined in the present document,

is capable of parsing ST9 and ST10 messages to extract SINR and RRM measurements.

The TER might have less testing ports than the O-RU DUT conducted antenna ports (or TAB connectors) if testing is carried out sequentially; or as many antenna ports as the number of conducted antenna ports (or TAB connectors) under test if testing is carried out simultaneously.

It is up to the TER on how to extract the beamweights (or magnitude and phase relation) between the antenna ports or TAB connectors, or the beam direction / properties, in order to match it with the manufacturer’s declaration.

The user payload will be generated as PN23 with a seed of all ones.

- It applies to the O-RAN CUS Specification [2]:
Clause 7.4

Clause 8.3.2

Clause 8.3.3

Clause 12

Annex J

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – No Beamforming

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit a basic 3GPP test frame with no beamforming (beamId=0x000) and with one spatial stream (single eAxC).

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

Manufacturers’ declaration that defines list of magnitude and phase relation (or beamweights) between antenna ports or TAB connectors and/or beam directions with antenna array characteristics when O-RU DUT is operating with no beamforming.

C.	Test Methodology

a.	Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.

Connect the signal analyzer to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the beam under test and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

b.	Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator.

Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by either one or two  sections (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.

Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1.

Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.

Extract either the beamweights, or magnitude and phase relation, or beam direction from the measured signal.

D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received by the signal analyzer should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data.

The signal relation (i.e. beamweights, or magnitude and phase relation) between antenna ports or TAB connectors, or the extracted beam direction, should match the expected relation, or beam direction, for the expected no beamforming within a tolerance defined by the manufacturer.

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – No Beamforming

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can receive a basic 3GPP test frame with no beamforming (beamId=0x000) and with one spatial stream (single eAxC).

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

Manufacturers’ declaration that defines list of magnitude and phase relation (or beamweights) between antenna ports or TAB connectors and/or beam directions with antenna array characteristics when O-RU DUT is operating with no beamforming.

C.	Test Methodology

a.	Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.

Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the beam under test and configure the source with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and generate the test signal.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

b.	Procedure

Build an appropriate test signal described above in the signal source of the TER.

Inject the test signal into the O-RU with the application of an initial set of beamweights, or equivalently magnitude and phase relation, between all the TER ports connected to the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) to emulate the phase and magnitude difference “seen” by the antenna elements under test. For example, initial beamweights could be set to be “all equal” (i.e. no beamforming).

Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by either one or two  sections (UL-SCH) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.

Play the C plane messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. while also triggering the signal source.

Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the DUT, allow it to create and send the U plane messages to the O-DU and for the O-DU to demodulate, decode and extract the payload.

Repeat the previous steps but now in step b apply a different set of beamweights or phase relation between all the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) when injecting the test signal into the O-RU. For example, repeating the process for a number of different beamweights will simulate the reception of the test signal from different beam directions. This allows to determine if the O-RU is really focusing the sensitivity to the correct beam direction.

D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

The test frame received by the TER/O-DU should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data.

The beamweights or magnitude and phase relation at the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) of the test signal that achieves the highest performance (i.e. best EVM, power, SNR, etc.) should match with the manufacturer’s declaration of the phase relation expected for no beamforming.

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Predefined-beam Beamforming

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit a basic 3GPP test frame with predefined-beams beamforming (beamId≠0x000) and with one spatial stream (single eAxC).

The transmitted beam direction is measured for each indexed beam required in this measurement, see below. The measured transmitted direction is compared to manufacturer-designated direction. Transmitted direction could be defined by the phase relation between the antenna ports or TAB connectors under test, or directly by extracting the beam direction.

The elevation θ and azimuth Φ angles are defined as in [2] clause 12.4.2.2

The UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Predefined-beam Beamforming conformance test might include multiple tests that the O-RU must comply:

The test should include the following beams:

A beam with 0 degrees azimuth (Φ) and elevation (θ) angles.

A beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ).

A beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ).

A beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ).

A beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ).

If the O-RU only supports one azimuth (Φ) or elevation angle (θ), fewer than 5 beam angles will be measured.

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

Manufacturers’ defined list of beam indices and their associated magnitude and phase relation between antenna ports or TAB connectors and/or beam directions with antenna array characteristics.

C.	Test Methodology

a.	Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.

Connect the signal analyzer to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the beam under test and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

b.	Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator.

Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by either one or two  sections (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.

Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1.

Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.

Extract either the beamweights, or magnitude and phase relation, or beam direction from the measured signal.

D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

- The signal measured by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).
- The test frame received by the signal analyzer should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data.
- The signal relation (i.e. beamweights, or magnitude and phase relation) between antenna ports or TAB connectors, or the extracted beam direction, should match the expected relation, or beam direction, corresponding to the beam under test within a tolerance defined by the manufacturer.

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – Predefined-beam Beamforming

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL mandatory.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can receive a basic 3GPP test frame with predefined-beams beamforming (beamId≠0x000) and with one spatial stream (single eAxC).

The same description and criteria for selecting the beams to be tested applies as in clause 3.2.3.2.3 applies, but instead it is related to the uplink direction.

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

Manufacturers’ defined list of beam indices and their associated magnitude and phase relation between antenna ports or TAB connectors and/or beam directions with antenna array characteristics.

C.	Test Methodology

a.	Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.

Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the beam under test and configure the source with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and generate the test signal.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

b.	Procedure

Build an appropriate test signal described above in the signal source of the TER.

Inject the test signal into the O-RU with the application of an initial set of beamweights, or equivalently magnitude and phase relation, between all the TER ports connected to the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) to emulate the phase and magnitude difference “seen” by the antenna elements under test. For example, initial beamweights could be set to be “all equal” (i.e. no beamforming).

Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by either one or two  sections (UL-SCH) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.

Play the C plane messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. while also triggering the signal source.

Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the DUT, allow it to create and send the U plane messages to the O-DU and for the O-DU to demodulate, decode and extract the payload.

Repeat the previous steps but now in step b apply a different set of beamweights or phase relation between all the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) when injecting the test signal into the O-RU. For example, repeating the process for a number of different beamweights will simulate the reception of the test signal from different beam directions. This allows to determine if the O-RU is really focusing the sensitivity to the correct beam direction.

D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

The test frame received by the TER/O-DU should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data.

The beamweights or magnitude and phase relation at the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) of the test signal that achieves the highest performance (i.e. best EVM, power, SNR, etc.) should match with the manufacturer’s declaration of the beam under test.

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Weight-based Dynamic Beamforming

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit a basic 3GPP test frame with weight-based dynamic beamforming with one spatial stream (single eAxC).

The transmitted beam direction is measured for each weighted beam required in this measurement, see below. The measured transmitted direction is compared to manufacturer-designated direction. Transmitted direction could be defined by the phase relation between the antenna ports or TAB connectors under test, or by directly extracting the beam direction.

The elevation θ and azimuth Φ angles are defined as in [2] clause 12.4.2.2:

The UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Weight-based Dynamic Beamforming conformance test should evaluate the following beams for the O-RU to comply:

A weight-based beam with 0 degrees azimuth (Φ) and elevation (θ) angles.

A weight-based beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ).

A weight-based beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ).

A weight-based beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ).

A weight-based beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ).

If the O-RU only supports one azimuth (Φ) or elevation angle (θ), fewer than 5 beam angles will be measured.

The user/tester selects the bitwidth for the mantissa or scaler of the compression method applied to the beams.

The UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Weight—based Dynamic Beamforming conformance test should also evaluate the following compression methods for each of the supported beams described above (a. to e.) for the O-RU to comply:

No compression method applied to the beamforming weights.

Block floating point compression method applied to the beamforming weights with the selected number of bit  mantissa.

Block scaling compression method applied to the beamforming weights with the selected number of bit scaler.

μ-law compression method applied to the beamforming weights with the selected number of bit fixed width.

Depending on what type of Beamspace compression the DUT supports, either Beamspace compression method applied to the beamforming weights with the selected number of bit scaler or Beamspace compression method applied to the beamforming weights with the selected number of bit mantissa.

If the O-RU does not support all the compression methods described above, fewer than 5 compression methods will be measured.

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

Manufacturers’ defined list of frequency domain (ϕ) and or time domain (θ) weights for each supported beam, or alternatively, list of gain and phase relation, or complex beam weights, between antenna ports or TAB connectors for each supported beam.  Also, the O-RU needs to report to the O-DU the antenna array characteristics.

C.	Test Methodology

a.	Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.

Connect the signal analyzer to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the beam under test and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

b.	Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator.

Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by one or two sections (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages, the sections in the first symbol of the slot will contain section extension extType=0x01 to convey the beam weights, it is not required that the next sections contain extension type 1 since the same beam IDs will not change along the slot. If O-RU does not support a field, then its value should be 0x0. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.

Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1.

Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.

Extract either the beamweights, or magnitude and phase relation, or beam direction from the measured signal.

D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received by the signal analyzer should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data.

The signal relation (i.e. beamweights, or magnitude and phase relation) between antenna ports or TAB connectors, or the extracted beam direction, should match the expected relation, or beam direction, corresponding to the beam under test within a tolerance defined by the manufacturer.

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – Weight-based Dynamic Beamforming

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can receive a basic 3GPP test frame with weight-based beamforming and with one spatial stream (single eAxC).

The same description and criteria for selecting the beams to be tested applies as in clause 3.2.3.2.5 but applies to the uplink direction.

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

Manufacturers’ defined list of frequency domain (ϕ) and or time domain (θ) weights for each supported beam, or alternatively, list of gain and phase relation, or complex beam weights, between antenna ports or TAB connectors for each supported beam . Also, the O-RU needs to report to the O-DU the antenna array characteristics

C.	Test Methodology

a.	Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.

Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the beam under test and configure the source with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and generate the test signal.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

b.	Procedure

Build an appropriate test signal described above in the signal source of the TER.

Inject the test signal into the O-RU with the application of an initial set of beamweights, or equivalently magnitude and phase relation, between all the TER ports connected to the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) to emulate the phase and magnitude difference “seen” by the antenna elements under test. For example, initial beamweights could be set to be “all equal” (i.e. no beamforming).

Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by one or two sections (UL-SCH) using Section Type 1 messages, the sections in the first symbol of the slot will contain section extension extType=0x01 to convey the beam weights, it is not required that the next sections contain extension type 1 since the same beam IDs will not change along the slot. If O-RU does not support a field, then its value should be 0x0. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.

Play the C plane messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. while also triggering the signal source.

Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the DUT, allow it to create and send the U plane messages to the O-DU and for the O-DU to demodulate, decode and extract the payload.

Repeat the previous steps but now in step b apply a different set of beamweights or phase relation between all the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) when injecting the test signal into the O-RU. For example, repeating the process for a number of different beamweights will simulate the reception of the test signal from different beam directions. This allows to determine if the O-RU is really focusing the sensitivity to the correct beam direction.

D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

The test frame received by the TER/O-DU should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data.

- The beamweights or magnitude and phase relation at the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) of the test signal that achieves the highest performance (i.e. best EVM, power, SNR, etc.) should match with the manufacturer’s declaration of the beam under test.

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Attribute-based Dynamic Beamforming

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit a basic 3GPP test frame with attributed-based dynamic beamforming with one spatial stream (single eAxC).

If the O-RU DUT supports Attribute based Dynamic Beamforming, this test is mandatory for the O-RU DUT to be O-RAN conformant.

The transmitted beam direction and attributes are measured for each attributed beam required in this measurement, see below. The measured transmitted direction and attributes, i.e. pointing azimuth and elevation angles, beamwidths and sidelobe suppression, is compared to manufacturer-designated direction and attributes. Transmitted direction and beam attributes are defined by the magnitude and phase relation between the antenna ports or TAB connectors under test, or by directly extracting the beam properties.

The elevation θ and azimuth Φ angles are defined as in  [2] clause 12.4.2.2.

The UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Attribute-based Dynamic Beamforming conformance test should evaluate the following beams for the O-RU to comply:

An attribute-based beam with 0 degrees azimuth (Φ) and elevation (θ) angles with any beamwidth and sidelobe suppression supported by the O-RU under this beam direction.

An attribute-based beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ) with the widest beamwidth and lowest sidelobe suppression supported for this specific beam direction.

An attribute-based beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ) with the narrowest beamwidth and highest sidelobe suppression supported for this specific beam direction.

An attribute-based beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ) with the widest beamwidth and lowest sidelobe suppression supported for this specific beam direction.

An attribute-based beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ) with the narrowest beamwidth and highest sidelobe suppression supported for this specific beam direction.

If the O-RU only supports one azimuth (Φ) or elevation angle (θ), fewer than 5 beam angles and attribute configurations will be measured.

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

Manufacturers’ defined list of supported beam directions (azimuth ϕ and elevation θ angles) attributes that are supported by the O-RU and their associated gain and phase relation, or complex weight, between antenna ports or TAB connectors and/or beam directions with antenna array characteristics.

C.	Test Methodology

a.	Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.

Connect the signal analyzer to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the beam under test and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

b.	Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator.

Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by one or two sections (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages, the sections in the first symbol of the slot will contain section extension extType=0x02 to convey the beam weights, it is not required that the next sections contain extension type 2 since the same beam IDs will not change along the slot.  If O-RU does not support a field, then its value should be 0x0. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.

Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1.

Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.

Extract either the beamweights, or magnitude and phase relation, or beam properties from the measured signal.

D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received by the signal analyzer should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data.

The signal relation (i.e. beamweights, or magnitude and phase relation) between antenna ports or TAB connectors, or the extracted beam properties, should match the expected beam properties corresponding to the beam under test within a tolerance defined by the manufacturer.

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – Attribute-based Dynamic Beamforming

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can receive a basic 3GPP test frame with attribute-based beamforming with one spatial stream (single eAxC).

Same description and criteria for selecting the beams to be tested applies as in clause 3.2.3.2.7 but considering uplink direction.

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

Manufacturers’ defined list of supported beam directions (azimuth ϕ and elevation θ angles) attributes that are supported by the O-RU and their associated gain and phase relation, or complex weight, between antenna ports or TAB connectors and/or beam directions with antenna array characteristics

C.	Test Methodology

a.	Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.

Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the beam under test and configure the source with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and generate the test signal.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

b.	Procedure

Build an appropriate test signal described above in the signal source of the TER.

Inject the test signal into the O-RU with the application of an initial set of beamweights, or equivalently magnitude and phase relation, between all the TER ports connected to the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) to emulate the phase and magnitude difference “seen” by the antenna elements under test. For example, initial beamweights could be set to be “all equal” (i.e. no beamforming).

Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by one or two sections (UL-SCH) using Section Type 1 messages, the sections in the first symbol of the slot will contain section extension extType=0x02 to convey the beam weights, it is not required that the next sections contain extension type 2 since the same beam IDs will not change along the slot. If O-RU does not support a field, then its value should be 0x0. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.

Play the C plane messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. while also triggering the signal source.

Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the DUT, allow it to create and send the U plane messages to the O-DU and for the O-DU to demodulate, decode and extract the payload.

Repeat the previous steps but now in step b apply a different set of beamweights or magnitude and phase relation between all the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) when injecting the test signal into the O-RU. For example, repeating the process for a number of different sets of beamweights will simulate the reception of the test signal from different beam directions. This allows to determine if the O-RU is really focusing the sensitivity to the correct beam properties.

D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

The test frame received by the TER/O-DU should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data.

The beamweights or magnitude and phase relation at the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) of the test signal that achieves the highest performance (i.e. best EVM, power, SNR, etc.) should match with the manufacturer’s declaration of the beam under test.

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Channel-Information-based Beamforming

Test Description and Applicability

This Test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit a basic 3GPP test frame with channel-information-based beamforming with multiple spatial streams from multiple users (i.e. MU-MIMO).

For Category A radios, the test is for each polarization separately and consequently either different or same channel models can be defined for each of the polarization. For Category B, same channel might be used for both polarizations and the test might measure each polarization separately.

The transmitted beam direction is measured for each scenario required in this measurement.  The measured transmitted direction is extracted from the decoded received signal in the TER. Transmitted direction is defined by properly receiving a data transmission between the O-RU and the target User Equipment while destroying or heavily attenuating the data transmission between the O-RU and the other User Equipment.

The UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Channel-Information-based Beamforming conformance test should evaluate the following scenarios for the O-RU to comply and will rely on TER Channel Emulation capabilities as shown in Figure 3.2.3.2-3.

A scenario where two spatial streams, or eAxC flows, are generated for two users (one layer each) with M antenna ports or TAB connectors. The O-DU will report to the O-RU via C plane messages an emulated channel estimate . The emulated channel   shall model a static channel, with rank not lower than the number of spatial streams, and it shall not be a block-diagonal channel. As an example, a Butler channel model could be implemented as emulated channel. The O-RU will calculate and apply the beamweight matrix  in such that the received signal at the users is the same as the generated in the O-DU. It is up to the O-RU on how to calculate the beamforming weights, for example Zero-forcing, regularized zero-forcing / MMSE, etc.

If O-RU supports Analog Beamforming (Time Domain Beamforming), the test should not apply any analog beamforming or time domain beamforming. In this case, M is not the number of antenna ports or TAB connectors but the number of TRX channels supported by the O-RU.

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must have at least two TRX chains with conducted antenna ports (or TAB connectors) to be connected to a signal analyzer.

The TER equipment must either include a channel emulator between the O-RU antenna ports and the signal analyzer or the signal analyzer be capable of applying the required channel matrix being emulated between the O-RU and the users.

Manufacturers’ defined list of number of TRX chains and what antenna ports or TAB connectors are connected to each TRX chain.

C.	Test Methodology

a.	Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.

Connect the signal analyzer to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the scenario under test and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

b.	Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator.

Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the scenario under test. Every symbol should be described by either one or two  sections (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 5 and 6 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.

Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1.

Capture the test signals and pass them through a channel emulator or apply the signal processing required to emulate the channel under test.

Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.

D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received by the signal analyzer should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data.

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – Channel-Information-based Beamforming

Test Description and Applicability

This Test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can receive a basic 3GPP test frame with channel-information-based beamforming with multiple spatial streams from multiple users (i.e. MU-MIMO).

Same description and criteria for selecting the beams to be tested applies as in clause 3.2.3.2.10 but considering uplink direction.

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must have at least two TRX chains with conducted antenna ports (or TAB connectors) to be connected to a signal generator.

The TER equipment must either include a channel emulator between the O-RU antenna ports and the signal generator or the signal generator be capable of applying the required channel matrix being emulated between the users and the O-RU.

Manufacturers’ defined list of number of TRX chains and what antenna ports or TAB connectors are connected to each TRX chain.

C.	Test Methodology

a.	Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.

Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the beam under test and configure the source with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and generate the test signal.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

b.	Procedure

Build an appropriate test signal described above in the signal source of the TER.

Inject the test signals through a channel emulator or apply the required signal processing to emulate the channel under test.

Inject the resulting test signals into the antenna ports (or TAB connectors).

Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by either one or two  sections (UL-SCH) using Section Type 5 and 6. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.

Play the C plane messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 2.4. while also triggering the signal source.

Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the DUT, allow it to create and send the U plane messages to the O-DU and for the O-DU to demodulate, decode and extract the payload.

D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

- The test frame received by the TER/O-DU should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data.

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Flexible Predefined-beam Beamforming

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit a basic 3GPP test frame with predefined-beams beamforming (beamId≠0x000) and with one spatial stream (single eAxC) using section extension 11.

The transmitted beam direction is measured for each indexed beam required in this measurement, see below. The measured transmitted direction is compared to manufacturer-designated direction. Transmitted direction could be defined by the phase relation between the antenna ports or TAB connectors under test, or directly by extracting the beam direction.

The elevation θ and azimuth Φ angles are defined as in [2] clause 12.4.2.2 :

The UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Flexible Predefined-beam Beamforming conformance test might include multiple tests that the O-RU must comply. The test should include any two of the following beams:

A beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ).

A beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ).

A beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ).

A beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ).

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

Manufacturers’ defined list of beam indices and their associated magnitude and phase relation between antenna ports or TAB connectors and/or beam directions with antenna array characteristics.

C.	Test Methodology

a.	Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.

Connect the signal analyzer to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the beam under test and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

b.	Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator.

Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every slot should be described by one section (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 and will contain section extension extType=0x0B to convey the beamIDs for Beam1 and Beam2, i.e. BeamID1 and BeamID2.

The fields in Section Extension 11 should contain the following values:

| disableBFWs | RAD | numBundPrb | bfwCompHdr |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | 0 | floor(allocPRBsymbol /2) | (depends on method) |

| Bundle | bfwCompParam | beamId |
| --- | --- | --- |
| PRB bundle 0 | (depends on Compression method) | beamID1 |
| PRB bundle 1 | (depends on Compression method) | beamID2 |

Where allocPRBsymbol is the number of allocated PRBs per symbol for the Downlink test waveform under a certain Bandwidth and Subcarrier spacing configuration. For example, for a 3GPP NR-FR1-TM1.1 with 100MHz bandwidth and 30kHz subcarrier spacing, the allocPRBsymbol is 273.

If O-RU does not support a field, then its value should be 0x0. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.

No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.

Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1.

Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.

Extract either the beamweights, or magnitude and phase relation, or beam direction from the measured signal.

D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

- The signal measured by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).
- The test frame received by the signal analyzer should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data.
- The signal relation (i.e. beamweights, or magnitude and phase relation) between antenna ports or TAB connectors, or the extracted beam direction, should match the expected relation, or beam direction, corresponding to the beams under test within a tolerance defined by the manufacturer.

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – Flexible Predefined-beam Beamforming

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL mandatory.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can receive a basic 3GPP test frame with predefined-beams beamforming (beamId≠0x000) and with one spatial stream (single eAxC) using section extension 11.

The same description and criteria for selecting the beams to be tested applies as in clause 3.2.3.2.11 applies, but instead it is related to the uplink direction.

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

Manufacturers’ defined list of beam indices and their associated magnitude and phase relation between antenna ports or TAB connectors and/or beam directions with antenna array characteristics.

C.	Test Methodology

a.	Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.

Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the beam under test and configure the source with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and generate the test signal.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

b.	Procedure

Build an appropriate test signal described above in the signal source of the TER.

Inject the test signal into the O-RU with the application of an initial set of beamweights, or equivalently magnitude and phase relation, between all the TER ports connected to the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) to emulate the phase and magnitude difference “seen” by the antenna elements under test. For example, initial beamweights could be set to be “all equal” (i.e. no beamforming).

Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every slot should be described by one section (UL-SCH) using Section Type 1 messages and will contain section extension extType=0x0B to convey the beamIDs for Beam1 and Beam2, i.e. BeamID1 and BeamID2.

The fields in Section Extension 11 should contain the following values:

| disableBFWs | RAD | numBundPrb | bfwCompHdr |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | 0 | floor(allocPRBsymbol/2) | (depends on method) |

| Bundle | bfwCompParam | beamId |
| --- | --- | --- |
| PRB bundle 0 | (depends on Compression method) | beamID1 |
| PRB bundle 1 | (depends on Compression method) | beamID2 |

Where allocPRBsymbol is the number of allocated PRBs per symbol for the Uplink test waveform under a certain Bandwidth and Subcarrier spacing configuration. For example, for a 3GPP G-FR1-A1-5 test waveform with 100MHz bandwidth and 30kHz subcarrier spacing, the allocPRBsymbol is 51.

If O-RU does not support a field, then its value should be 0x0. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.

No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.

Play the C plane messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. while also triggering the signal source.

Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the DUT, allow it to create and send the U plane messages to the O-DU and for the O-DU to demodulate, decode and extract the payload.

Repeat the previous steps but now in step b apply a different set of beamweights or phase relation between all the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) when injecting the test signal into the O-RU. For example, repeating the process for a number of different beamweights will simulate the reception of the test signal from different beam directions. This allows to determine if the O-RU is really focusing the sensitivity to the correct beam direction.

D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

The test frame received by the TER/O-DU should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data.

The beamweights or equivalently the magnitude and phase relation at the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) of the test signal that achieves the highest performance (i.e. best EVM, power, SNR, etc.) should match with the manufacturer’s declaration of the beams under test.

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Flexible Real Time Weights Beamforming

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit a basic 3GPP test frame with flexible weight-based dynamic beamforming with one spatial stream (single eAxC) using section extension 11.

The transmitted beam direction is measured for each weighted beam required in this measurement, see below. The measured transmitted direction is compared to manufacturer-designated direction. Transmitted direction could be defined by the phase relation between the antenna ports or TAB connectors under test, or by directly extracting the beam direction.

The elevation θ and azimuth Φ angles are defined as in [2] clause 12.4.2.2:

The UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Flexible Real Time Weights Beamforming conformance test should evaluate any two of following beams (called henceforth Beam1 and Beam2) for the O-RU to comply:

A weight-based beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ).

A weight-based beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ).

A weight-based beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ).

A weight-based beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ).

The UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Flexible Real Time Weights Beamforming conformance test should also evaluate the following compression methods for each of the supported beams described above (a. to e.) for the O-RU to comply:

- No compression method applied to the beamforming weights.
- Block floating point compression method applied to the beamforming weights with 14-bit mantissa.
- Block scaling compression method applied to the beamforming weights with 14-bit scaler.
- μ-law compression method applied to the beamforming weights with 14-bit fixed width.
- Depending on what type of Beamspace compression the DUT supports, either BBeamspace compression method applied to the beamforming weights with 14-bit scaler or Beamspace compression method applied to the beamforming weights with 14-bit mantissa.
If the O-RU does not support all the compression methods described above, fewer than 5 compression methods will be measured.

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

Manufacturers’ defined list of frequency domain (ϕ) and or time domain (θ) weights for each supported beam, or alternatively, list of gain and phase relation, or complex beam weights, between antenna ports or TAB connectors for each supported beam. Also, the O-RU needs to report to the O-DU the antenna array characteristics.

C.	Test Methodology

a.	Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.

Connect the signal analyzer to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the beam under test and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

b.	Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator.

Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every slot should be described by one section (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 and will contain section extension extType=0x0B to convey the beam weights for Beam1 and Beam2.

The fields in Section Extension 11 should contain the following values:

| disableBFWs | RAD | numBundPrb | bfwCompHdr |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 0 | floor(allocPRBsymbol /2) | (depends on method) |  |

| Bundle | bfwCompParam | beamId | bfwI / bfwQ |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| PRB bundle 0 | (depends on Compression method) | beamID1 | Weights for Beam1 |
| PRB bundle 1 | (depends on Compression method) | beamID2 | Weights for Beam2 |

Where allocPRBsymbol is the number of allocated PRBs per symbol for the TM1.1 test waveform under a certain Bandwidth and Subcarrier spacing configuration. For example, for a TM1.1 with 100MHz bandwidth and 30kHz subcarrier spacing, the allocPRBsymbol is 273.

If O-RU does not support a field, then its value should be 0x0. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.

Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1.

Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.

Extract either the beamweights, or magnitude and phase relation, or beam direction from the measured signal.

D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received by the signal analyzer should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data.

The signal relation (i.e. beamweights, or magnitude and phase relation) between antenna ports or TAB connectors, or the extracted beam direction, should match the expected relation, or beam direction, corresponding to the beams under test within a tolerance defined by the manufacturer.

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – Flexible Real Time Weights Beamforming

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can receive a basic 3GPP test frame with weight-based beamforming and with one spatial stream (single eAxC) using section extension 11.

The same description and criteria for selecting the beams to be tested applies as in clause 3.2.3.2.13 but applies to the uplink direction.

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

Manufacturers’ defined list of frequency domain (ϕ) and or time domain (θ) weights for each supported beam, or alternatively, list of gain and phase relation, or complex beam weights, between antenna ports or TAB connectors for each supported beam. Also, the O-RU needs to report to the O-DU the antenna array characteristics

C.	Test Methodology

a.	Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.

Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the beam under test and configure the source with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and generate the test signal.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

b.	Procedure

Build an appropriate test signal described above in the signal source of the TER.

Inject the test signal into the O-RU with the application of an initial set of beam weights, or equivalently magnitude and phase relation, between all the TER ports connected to the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) to emulate the phase and magnitude difference “seen” by the antenna elements under test. For example, initial beamweights could be set to be “all equal” (i.e. no beamforming).

Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every slot should be described by one section (UL-SCH) using Section Type 1 messages and will contain section extension extType=0x0B to convey the beam weights.

The fields in Section Extension 11 should contain the following values:

| disableBFWs | RAD | numBundPrb | bfwCompHdr |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 0 | floor(allocPRBsymbol /2) | (depends on method) |  |

| Bundle | bfwCompParam | beamId | bfwI / bfwQ |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| PRB bundle 0 | (depends on Compression method) | beamID1 | Weights for Beam1 |
| PRB bundle 1 | (depends on Compression method) | beamID2 | Weights for Beam2 |

Where allocPRBsymbol is the number of allocated PRBs per symbol for the TM1.1 test waveform under a certain Bandwidth and Subcarrier spacing configuration. For example, for a TM1.1 with 100MHz bandwidth and 30kHz subcarrier spacing, the allocPRBsymbol is 273.

If O-RU does not support a field, then its value should be 0x0. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.

Play the C plane messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. while also triggering the signal source.

Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the DUT, allow it to create and send the U plane messages to the O-DU and for the O-DU to demodulate, decode and extract the payload.

Repeat the previous steps but now in step b apply a different set of beamweights or phase relation between all the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) when injecting the test signal into the O-RU. For example, repeating the process for a number of different beamweights will simulate the reception of the test signal from different beam directions. This allows to determine if the O-RU is really focusing the sensitivity to the correct beam direction.

D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

The test frame received by the TER/O-DU should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data.

- The beamweights or equivalently the magnitude and phase relation at the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) of the test signal that achieves the highest performance (i.e. best EVM, power, SNR, etc.) should match with the manufacturer’s declaration of the beams under test.

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Layer nulling Beamforming

Test Description and Applicability

This Test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit a basic 3GPP test frame with channel-information-based beamforming with multiple spatial streams from multiple users (i.e. MU-MIMO) with section extension 14.

For Category A radios, the test is for each polarization separately and consequently either different or same channel models can be defined for each of the polarization. For Category B, same channel might be used for both polarizations and the test might measure each polarization separately.

The transmitted beam direction is measured for each scenario required in this measurement.  The measured transmitted direction is extracted from the decoded received signal in the TER. Transmitted direction is defined by properly receiving a data transmission between the O-RU and the target User Equipment while destroying or heavily attenuating the data transmission between the O-RU and the other User Equipment.

The UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Layer nulling Beamforming conformance test should evaluate the following scenarios for the O-RU to comply and will rely on TER Channel Emulation capabilities as shown in Figure 3.2.3.2-3.

The conformance test will contain two test runs where in each of the test runs, the O-DU will indicate to the O-RU that one of the users/layers to be null at a time. For example, first test run will indicate only UE 0 Layer 0 to be null (i.e. null eAxC 0) while the second test run will indicate only UE 1 layer 0 to be null (i.e. null eAxC 1), see figure Figure 3.2.3.2-4.

A scenario where two spatial streams, or eAxC flows, are generated for two users (one layer each) with M antenna ports or TAB connectors. The O-DU will report to the O-RU via C plane messages using Section Types 5 and Section Types 6 an emulated channel estimate . The emulated channel   shall model a static channel, with rank not lower than the number of spatial streams, and it shall not be a block-diagonal channel. As an example, a Butler channel model could be implemented as emulated channel. The O-RU will calculate the beamweight matrix  for all layers/users but it will only apply the beamweights to the users/layers that have not been indicated as null by the O-DU emulator. The TER should only receive the non-null user/layers for each of the test runs. It is up to the O-RU on how to calculate the beamforming weights, for example Zero-forcing, regularized zero-forcing / MMSE, etc.

If O-RU supports Analog Beamforming (Time Domain Beamforming), the test should not apply any analog beamforming or time domain beamforming. In this case, M is not the number of antenna ports or TAB connectors but the number of TRX channels supported by the O-RU.

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must have at least two TRX chains with conducted antenna ports (or TAB connectors) to be connected to a signal analyzer.

The TER equipment must either include a channel emulator between the O-RU antenna ports and the signal analyzer or the signal analyzer be capable of applying the required channel matrix being emulated between the O-RU and the users.

Manufacturers’ defined list of number of TRX chains and what antenna ports or TAB connectors are connected to each TRX chain.

C.	Test Methodology

a.	Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.

Connect the signal analyzer to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the scenario under test and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

b.	Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator.

Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the scenario under test. Every symbol should be described by either one or two  sections (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 5 and 6 messages. Section type 5 messages will contain section extension 14 indicating the nulling of the eAxC to be nulled under this test run. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.

Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1.

Capture the test signals and pass them through a channel emulator or apply the signal processing required to emulate the channel under test.

Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.

Repeat procedure a. to e. for the other eAxC to be nulled (i.e. the remining eAxC not tested yet).

D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

For each of the test runs, the expected signal (i.e. the expected User containing non-nulled eAxC data) is measured by the signal analyzer and should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM)

For each of the test runs, the non-expected signal (i.e. the non-expected User containing nulled eAxC data) should be measured but no data should be detected (or heavily attenuated) by the signal analyzer.

For each of the test runs, the expected test frame to be received for each test run by the signal analyzer should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data.

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – Layer nulling Beamforming

Test Description and Applicability

This Test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can receive a basic 3GPP test frame with channel-information-based beamforming with multiple spatial streams from multiple users (i.e. MU-MIMO) with section extension 14.

Same description and criteria for selecting the beams to be tested applies as in clause 3.2.3.2.15 but considering uplink direction.

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must have at least two TRX chains with conducted antenna ports (or TAB connectors) to be connected to a signal generator.

The TER equipment must either include a channel emulator between the O-RU antenna ports and the signal generator or the signal generator be capable of applying the required channel matrix being emulated between the users and the O-RU.

Manufacturers’ defined list of number of TRX chains and what antenna ports or TAB connectors are connected to each TRX chain.

C.	Test Methodology

a.	Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.

Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the beam under test and configure the source with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and generate the test signal.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

b.	Procedure

Build an appropriate test signal described above in the signal source of the TER.

Inject both test signals, for both Users, through a channel emulator or apply the required signal processing to emulate the channel under test.

Inject the resulting test signals into the antenna ports (or TAB connectors).

Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by either one or two  sections (UL-SCH) using Section Type 5 and 6. Section type 5 messages will contain section extension 14 indicating the nulling of the eAxC to be nulled under this test run. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.

Play the C plane messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in section 2.4. while also triggering the signal source.

Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the DUT, allow it to create and send the U plane messages to the O-DU and for the O-DU to demodulate, decode and extract the payload.

Repeat procedure a. to f. but now null other eAxC to be nulled (i.e. the remining eAxC not tested yet).

D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

- For each of the test runs, the expected test frame (i.e. the non-nulled eAxC) received by the TER/O-DU should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data.
- For each of the test runs, the non-expected test frame (i.e. the nulled eAxC) received by the TER/O-DU should be measured and confirm that no data or heavily attenuated data is measured.

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Channel-Information-based Beamforming with mixed numerology

Test Description and Applicability

This Test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit a basic 3GPP test frame with channel-information-based beamforming and mixed numerology in combination with a beam-ID-based beamforming and mixed numerology.

For Category A radios, the test is for each polarization separately and consequently either different or same channel models can be defined for each of the polarization. For Category B, same channel might be used for both polarizations and the test might measure each polarization separately.

The two beams share the spectrum equally and the transmitted beam directions for UE-based and beam-ID-based beamforming are either sufficiently separated in space or a guard band can be signaled in between to avoid interference. On each beam, i.e. the beam signaled via beam ID and the beam signaled via UE-ID the testcase emulates a change of the numerology.

The UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Channel-Information-based Beamforming with mixed numerologies conformance test should evaluate the following scenarios for the O-RU to comply and will rely on TER capabilities as shown in Figure 3.2.3.2-5.

A scenario where two spatial streams, or eAxC flows, are generated for two users (one layer each) with M antenna ports or TAB connectors. The O-DU will signal to the O-RU via C plane messages a beam ID based beam and a UE ID based beam that are either sufficiently separated in the spatial domain to avoid interference or a guard band is configured between the frequency domain resources. The two beams share the channel bandwidth in equal parts, depending on the applied numerology. The beam ID beam direction is based on manufacturer declaration and the O-DU may report to the O-RU via C plane messages an emulated channel estimate  allowing the computing of the beamweight matrix  in such that the received signal at the UE ID based beam is the same as the generated in the O-DU. It is up to the O-RU on how to calculate the beamforming weights, for example Zero-forcing, regularized zero-forcing / MMSE, etc.

If O-RU supports Analog Beamforming (Time Domain Beamforming), the test should not apply any analog beamforming or time domain beamforming. In this case, M is not the number of antenna ports or TAB connectors but the number of TRX channels supported by the O-RU.

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must have at least two TRX chains with conducted antenna ports (or TAB connectors) to be connected to a signal analyzer.

The TER equipment must be able to receive the two beams via an RF connection stage. This can for example  include a channel emulator between the O-RU antenna ports and the signal analyzer or a switch matrix with sufficient decoupling between its connectors.

Manufacturers’ defined list of number of TRX chains and what antenna ports or TAB connectors are connected to each TRX chain.

Manufacturer provides information about beam ID based beamforming to allow the signaling of the channel information allowing the UE-based beam in a sufficiently separated spatial direction to avoid interference. Alternatively, a guard band can be signaled between the two frequency allocations on each beam.

C.	Test Methodology

a.	Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.

Connect the signal analyzer to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the scenario under test and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

b.	Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator.

Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the scenario under test. Due to the symbol duration dependency on the subcarrier spacing, the section corresponding to 15 kHz SCS covers 2 OFDMA symbols duration, the section corresponding to 30 kHz SCS covers 4 OFDMA symbols and the section corresponding to 60 kHz SCS covers 8 OFDMA symbol duration to have a common measurement time of 1 ms for each numerology.

The C-Plane message schedules two sections separated in the frequency domain at the same time, the channel bandwidth is divided in two sections of equal size. A guard band between the two frequency sections can be configured. One section presents beam ID based beamforming and the simultaneous section presents the UE ID based beamforming.

The O-DU emulator signals Section Type 1 corresponding to beam ID specific beamforming for the measurement duration of 4 OFDMA symbols and 30 kHz SCS. The user plane data is a new PN23 sequence. After the measurement duration of 4 OFDMA symbols, the O-DU emulator signals Section Type 3 with mixed numerology and schedules an SCS of 15 kHz. The scheduling and measurement duration is 2 OFDMA symbols. The user plane data is a new PN23 sequence. The beam ID value is the same in Section Type 1 and Section Type 3 and the occupied bandwidth for both numerologies should match as much as possible.

The O-DU emulator signals Section Type 5 corresponding to the UE ID based beamforming for the measurement duration of 4 OFDMA symbols and 30 kHz SCS. The user plane data is a new PN23 sequence. After the measurement duration of 4 OFDMA symbols, the O-DU emulator signals Section Type 5 with section extension 15 mixed numerology and schedules an SCS of 60 kHz. The scheduling and measurement duration is 8 OFDMA symbols. The user plane data is a new PN23 sequence. The UE ID value is different for the Section Type 5 and Section Type 5 with section extension 15 case, emulating a situation of time domain beamforming to two separate UE IDs. The occupied bandwidth for both consecutive UE ID beams should match as much as possible.

The O-DU emulator may schedule after the two scheduling periods of 1 ms each (4 OFDMA symbols followed by 2 OFDMA for 15 kHz SCS / 8 OFDMA symbols for 60 kHz SCS) another two sections with 30 kHz SCS and Section Type 1 / Section Type 5 scheduling, see Figure 3.2.3.2-6

Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. As described, there will be 4 user plane data section, each one containing a new PN23 sequence.

Capture the test signals and pass them through a channel emulator or apply the signal processing required to receive the two beams generated by the DUT.

Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.

D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received by the signal analyzer should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data.

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – Bit masking for antenna mapping in Channel-Information-based Beamforming in uplink direction

Test Description and Applicability

This Test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can receive properly a basic 3GPP test frame with bit masking signaling an antenna mapping for channel-information-based beamforming in uplink direction.

The O-DU emulator shall signal antenna port combinations via section extension type 16 as declared by the manufacturer. An uplink signal is fed into the O-RU antenna ports signaled as belonging to the antenna mapping and the received signal should indicate good reception by analysis of EVM and PN pattern matching. In a second analysis, the uplink signal is fed into the O-RU antenna ports that are not signaled as belonging to the antenna mapping and the received signal quality, e.g. EVM should be much worse compared to the proper reception case.

The UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – bit masking for antenna mapping in Channel-Information-based Beamforming should evaluate the following scenarios for the O-RU to comply and will rely on TER capabilities as shown in Figure 3.2.3.2-7.

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must have at least two TRX chains with conducted antenna ports (or TAB connectors) to be connected to a signal generator.

The TER equipment must be able transmit two uplink signals that are fed into the antenna ports of the O-RU. The feeding of the uplink signal into the antenna ports can be done simultaneously or consecutively.

The TER may contain a channel emulation stage or a switch matrix to allow the proper connection of the uplink signal with the O-RU antenna port or a consecutive test with manual connection is possible

Manufacturers’ defined list of number of TRX chains and what antenna ports or TAB connectors are connected to each TRX chain.

Manufacturer provides information about antenna mapping to enable correct signaling via C-plane

C.	Test Methodology

a.	Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.

Connect the signal generator to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the scenario under test and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

b.	Procedure

The uplink signal is described by table A.1-1 in ETSI TS 138.141-1 and is referred to as G-FR1-A1-5 with the power that is about 30 dB higher as the minimum sensitivity. The data content is a new PN23 sequence in each of the two test steps.

Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the scenario under test.

The O-DU emulator signals via section extension type 16 without section extension 10 the antenna masking dependent on manufacturer declaration. The antenna elements belonging to the signaled antenna mask are identified by the first eAxC value in section extension type 16.

Test step 1: The signal generator uplink signal containing a new PN23 sequence in the FRC G-FR1-A1-5 is connected to the antenna port identified as the first eAxC value corresponding to the situation where the uplink signal is properly connected to the receiving antenna port. The received signal should indicate a good EVM signal quality and the PN23 sequence matches between generator and analyzer

Test step 2: A second uplink signal containing a new PN23 sequence in the FRC G-FR1-A1-5 is connected to the antenna port not identified as the first eAxC value in the section extension type 16 message corresponding to the situation where the uplink signal is wrongly connected to the receiving antenna port. The received signal quality should be much worse compared to the signal quality detected in paragraph (d)

Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.

D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

For the situation of the uplink signal fed into the first eAxC antenna port signaled as belonging to the antenna mask, the signal measured by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received in test step 1 by the signal analyzer should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data.

The received uplink signal in test step 2 should indicate a EVM not satisfying the 3GPP performance or indicate a PN pattern mismatch

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – User port grouping in Channel-Information-based Beamforming in downlink direction

Test Description and Applicability

This Test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit a basic 3GPP test frame with UE based antenna port grouping and channel-information-based beamforming. The test emulates a downlink signal with 2 layers belonging to the same UE. Via section extension type 17, the O-DU emulator signals the same UE ID for the two downlink layer signal and the analyzer shall indicate a good signal quality. In a second test step, the signal analyzer is connected to an antenna port of the O-RU that is not signaled as belonging to the user port group and the received signal quality should be much worse compared to test step 1.

The UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – user port grouping for antenna mapping in Channel-Information-based Beamforming should evaluate the following scenarios for the O-RU to comply and will rely on TER capabilities as shown in Figure 3.2.3.2-8

A scenario where two spatial streams, or eAxC flows, are generated for one user. The antenna configuration of the O-RU has M antenna element rows as of manufacturer declaration and R<M antenna elements will be used to transmit the two layers to the user. The O-DU will signal to the O-RU via C plane messages a UE ID based beam and a user port grouping. The O-DU may report to the O-RU via C plane messages an emulated channel estimate  allowing the computing of the beamweight matrix  in such that the  received signal at the UE ID based beam is the same as the generated in the O-DU. It is up to the O-RU on how do the antenna port grouping and the selection of the number of R antenna element rows and to calculate the beamforming weights, for example Zero-forcing, regularized zero-forcing / MMSE, etc.

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must have at least two TRX chains with conducted antenna ports (or TAB connectors) to be connected to a signal analyzer.

The TER equipment must be able to receive the two layers via an RF connection stage. This can for example  include a channel emulator between the O-RU antenna ports and the signal analyzer or a switch matrix.

Manufacturers’ defined list of number of TRX chains and what antenna ports or TAB connectors are connected to each TRX chain.

Manufacturer provides information about antenna mapping to enable correct signaling via C-plane

C.	Test Methodology

a.	Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.

Connect the signal analyzer to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the scenario under test and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

b.	Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator.  The user plane data content is a new PN23 for each of the two layers.

The O-DU emulator signals Section Type 5 with section extension type 10 and section extension type 17 corresponding to the UE ID based beamforming.  Section extension type 17 indicates the value numUeID for the first user on the two layers dedicated to this user

Test step 1: The O-DU emulator provides a user plane data signal representing two layers with a new PN23 sequence on each layer. The C-Plane signals an antenna port grouping using the section extension type 17. The received signal should indicate a good EVM signal quality and the PN23 sequence matches between generator and analyzer on both layers dedicated to the user.

Test step 2: The signal analyzer is connected to an antenna port that is not signaled as belonging to the user port group via section extension type 17. This can be done simultaneously to test step 1 or consecutively. The received signal quality should be much worse compared to the signal quality detected in test step1.

Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.

D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured on the two layers belonging to the user group port by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received by the signal analyzer should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data.

The received downlink signal in test step 2 should indicate a EVM not satisfying the 3GPP performance or indicate a PN pattern mismatch

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – DMRS based Beamforming

Test Description and Applicability

This Test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY, the condition being O-RUs that support either DMRS-EQ or DMRS-NEQ.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can receive a basic 3GPP test frame with Demodulation Reference Signal-based beamforming (DMRS-BF) with multiple spatial streams from multiple users (i.e. MU-MIMO) using Section Extension 24 (SE24).

The UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – DMRS based Beamforming conformance test will rely on TER Beamforming capabilities as shown in Figure 3.2.3.2-8.

As defined in introduction of clause 3.2.3.2 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming, each of the UE layer in Figure 3.2.3.2-8 shall use a standard 3GPP Reference Sensitivity level definition (clause 7.2 and Annex A TS138.141-1) of the Conducted Receiver Characteristic Test (clause 7  ETSI TS 138.141). The power levels shall be at least 30dB above Reference Sensitivity power level as described in clause 3.2.1.1. The test numerology will be preferably 30kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth, if supported. Otherwise, it shall use any available subcarrier space, and the highest bandwidth supported by the O-RU DUT. In addition, the uplink test vector will be generated with UL-SCH in UL slots and allocated to the PRBs 0 to 50 truncated to the carrier bandwidth used for testing.

Note that this test vector is defined for a Single Input Single Output (SISO) scenario. However, for this test, the test vector is expanded to evaluate the test scenario where two spatial streams, or eAxC flows, are scheduled at the same resource allocation for two users (with one layer each) and with M antenna ports or TAB connectors. The CUSM-Plane emulator will signal to the O-RU via C-plane messages the scheduling of the two ueIds, using Section Type 5 and Section Extension 10 with beamGroupType=10b or beamGroupType=11b depending on O-RU capabilities.

This test case does not test allocated IPN measurement (MEAS_IPN_ALLOC =DISABLED), antenna DMRS SNR (andDmrsSnr=0), transform precoding and self assembly. The CUSM-Plane emulator shall assign and schedule the ueIds using any supported number of least significant bits of the ueId to indicate the layers within each user. If an O-RU supports ueId persistence, ueId persistence shall not be used “ueId-persistence-enabled=FALSE”.

The CUSM-Plane emulator will inform the O-RU of the DMRS configurations for the two streams using Section Extension 24 with entryType 1 and 2. The two DMRS configurations are as follows:

|  | UE 0 Layer 0 (DMRS 0) | UE 1 Layer 0 (DMRS 1) |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Ports | 1000 | 1002 |
| scrambling ID (nSCID) | 0 | 1 |
| Scrambling ID 0 () | 2 | 3 |
| Scrambling ID 0 () | 4 | 5 |
| DMRS Power Boosting | 3 dB |  |
| UL DMRS Configuration | Type 1 |  |
| DMRS Duration (maxLength) | len1 (Single Symbol) |  |
| DMRS Additional Position (dmrs-AdditionalPosition) | 1+1 (2) |  |
| UL Mapping Type | A |  |
| l0 | pos2 |  |
| DMRS Uplink Transform Precoding r16 | False |  |
| Transform Precoding | False |  |

Same DMRS signal can be used for all available polarizations. Each polarization might be measured separately.

If O-RU supports any other beamforming, these shall not be exercise and tested. If O-RU supports Analog Beamforming (Time Domain Beamforming), the test should not apply any analog beamforming or time domain beamforming. In this case, M is not the number of antenna ports or TAB connectors but the number of TRX channels supported by the O-RU.

There are two layers with two different DMRS configurations to measure in this scenario, two users with one layer each. A succesful received layer is defined as properly receiving data transmission at the O-DU emulator side from a corresponding layer transmitted by a User Equipment. This received data transmission shall be successfully received when it matches the DMRS configuration being signalled to the O-RU.

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU has at least two TRX chains with conducted antenna ports (or TAB connectors) to be connected to a signal generator.

The O-RU supports enough entry tables of DMRS configuration to process the test vector and configuration under test.

The TER equipment either includes a beamformer between the O-RU antenna ports and the UE signal generator or the signal generator be capable of emulating different AoA for different UE.

The TER equipment is responsible for generating the RF signals for each UE layer as described in Section A, the corresponding matching O-RAN fronthaul traffic with Section ST5, SE10 and SE24 and the configuration of the DUT via M-Plane.

Manufacturers’ defined list of number of TRX chains and what antenna ports or TAB connectors are connected to each TRX chain.

C.	Test Methodology

a.	Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.

Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the beam under test and configure the source with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and generate the test signal.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

b.	Procedure

Build an appropriate test signal described in Section A in the signal source of the TER.

Inject the test signals through a beamformer or apply the required signal processing to the layers under test.

Get the resulting test signals ready to be injected into the antenna ports (or TAB connectors).

Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test using Section Type 5 with Section Extension 10 and Section Extension 24.

Play the C-plane messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 2.4. while also triggering the signal source so the signal is injected into the antenna ports (or TAB connectors).

Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the DUT, allow it to create and send the U-plane messages to the O-DU emulator.

Allow for the O-DU emulator to capture the U-Plane messages sent by the O-RU and to run the following measurements on the extracted IQ data for each of the users/layers:

if O-RU implements DMRS-BF-EQ:

EVM of the received equalized IQ data (no channel estimation and equalization is used in TER).

BER or BLER of the received equalized IQ data after layer demapping and decoding in the TER.

NOTE 1: The measured BER or BLER depends on the algorithms implemented in both the O-RU DUT and the O-DU TER.

NOTE 2: The algorithms for demapping and decoding to be used in TER are left for future study.

if O-RU implements DMRS-BF-NEQ:

EVM of the received non-equalized IQ data after the channel estimation and equalization operation in the TER.

NOTE 3: The measured EVM depends on the algorithms implemented in both the O-RU DUT and the O-DU TER.

NOTE 4: The algorithms for channel estimation and equalization to be used in TER are left for future study.

BER or BLER of the received non-equalized IQ data after Channel Estimation, equalization, layer demapping and decoding in the TER.

NOTE 5: The measured BER or BLER depends on the algorithms implemented in both the O-RU DUT and the O-DU TER.

NOTE 6: The algorithms for demapping and decoding to be used in TER are left for future study.

demodulate, decode and extract the payload.

D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

The test frame received by the TER/O-DU emulator for each of the users/layers should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data (payload).

Report EVM and BER or BLER measured during the test.

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – DMRS based Beamforming about Symbol reordering

The FDD conducted test case for DMRS based beamforming about symbol reordering is the same as the test case described in clause 3.2.5.2.12 for the TDD conducted case with the exception that references made to the clause 3.2.5.2.11 shall be replaced to references to the clause 3.2.3.2.20 for this test case.

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using section extension 24 for DMRS-BF

The FDD conducted test case for extended DMRS based beamforming using section extension 24 is the same as the test case described in clause 3.2.5.2.13 for the TDD conducted case with the exception that references made to the clause 3.2.5.2.11 shall be replaced to references to the clause 3.2.3.2.20 for this test case.

#### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression (CMP)

Validate the correct implementation and interpretation of mandatory and optional IQ data compression formats described in [2]. Also, evaluate the consistency in U-Plane signaling.

It applies to the O-RAN CUS Specification [2]:

- Clause 7.4
- Clause 7.5.2.10
- Clause 8.3.3.13
- Clause 8.3.3.15/16/17
- Clause 8.3.2
- Clause 8.3.3
- Table 10.2-1
- Annex A
- Annex A.6
The objective is primarily to test the protocol, prior to the compression algorithms performance.

Signalling: IQ Compression related fields in UC-Plane messages include:

U-Plane IQ data field

C-Plane udCompHdr (per clause 7.5.2.10 of [2])

U-Plane udComphdr (per clause 8.3.3.13of [2])

U-Plane udCompParam (per clause 8.3.3.15of [2])

Compression: The current specification [2] includes 7 compression modes, including uncompressed mode (fixed point).  Tests should cover each one of these modes

fixed-point

block floating-point

block scaling

mu-law

modulation compression (modulation compression not included in this document)

Block Floating Point + selective RE sending

Modulation Compression + selective RE sending

IQ Bit Width: IQ information can be represented using different bit width (1-16 bits). To optimize test time, tests should be performed on a subset of bit widths

For fixed point, block floation point, block scaling, mu-law compressions the subset of bit widths to be tested are

9 bits

14 bits

For modulation compression bit width 4 is used for the test.

##### Overview of Compression Test Methodology

A common test methodology and structure will be used across all compression test cases. Each one of the test cases will be defined with specific input parameters and expected output values.

To minimize influence of the Radio’s RF performance to the test results, the test methodology will be based on a relative comparison between modulated signal measurements performed on a test frame with uncompressed IQ (fixed 16 bits) and measurements on the same test frame using compressed IQ. The test will verify that the difference between measurements fits within an acceptable range for the test to pass.

For downlink test, the modulated signal measurement is performed by a signal analyzer on the antenna port of the O-RU.

For uplink measurement, the modulated signal measurement is performed with the IQ extracted from the Uplink U-Plane data sent by the O-RU on the O-RAN interface.

The following paragraphs in this overview section outline the details of these common test methodologies.

The test frames used for compression conformance test will be referred in this document as “NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-DL” Downlink Standard Compression Test frame and “NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-UL” Uplink Standard Compression Test frame. They are 5G NR frames based on the description in clause 3.2.1.1.5 with specific attributes described below.

The Downlink UC-Plane test stimulus file includes the C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink the NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-DL test frame.

The Uplink C-Plane test stimulus file includes the C-Plane messages that require the O-RU to provide the uplink U-Plane messages according to the NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-UL test frame received by the O-RU on its antenna port.

Signalling and IQ information will be based on various compression schemes

| Stimulus File Name | Description |
| --- | --- |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-UNC-16B | Static Downlink Uncompressed (CU-plane) |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-UL-UNC-16B | Static Uplink Uncompressed (C-plane only) |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-FPF-9B | Static Downlink Fixed Point 9 Bits (CU-plane) |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-FPF-14B | Static Downlink Fixed Point 14 Bits (CU-plane) |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-UL-FPF-9B | Static Uplink Fixed Point 9 Bits (C-plane only) |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-UL-FPF-14B | Static Uplink Fixed Point 14 Bits (C-plane only) |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-BFP-9B | Static Downlink Block Floating Point 9 Bits (CU-plane) |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-BFP-14B | Static Downlink Block Floating Point 14 Bits (CU-plane) |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-UL-BFP-9B | Static Uplink Block Floating Point 9 Bits (C-plane only) |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-UL-BFP-14B | Static Uplink Block Floating Point 14 Bits (C-plane only) |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-BSC-9B | Static Downlink Block Scaling 9 Bits (CU-plane) |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-BSC-14B | Static Downlink Block Scaling 14 Bits (CU-plane) |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-UL-BSC-9B | Static Uplink Block Scaling 9 Bits (C-plane only) |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-UL-BSC-14B | Static Uplink Block Scaling 14 Bits (C-plane only) |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-MLW-9B | Static Downlink Mu-Law 9 Bits (CU-plane) |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-MLW-14B | Static Downlink Mu-Law 14 Bits (CU-plane) |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-UL-MLW-9B | Static Uplink Mu-Law 9 Bits (C-plane only) |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-UL-MLW-14B | Static Uplink Mu-Law 14 Bits (C-plane only) |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-MC | Static Downlink Modulation Compression |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-UNC-BRE-16B | Static Downlink Uncompressed (CU-plane) with both empty and allocated RE in the same symbol |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-UL-UNC-BRE-16B | Static Uplink Uncompressed (C-plane only) with both empty and allocated RE in the same symbol |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-BRE-9B | Static Downlink Block Floating Point + Selective RE 9 Bits (CU-plane) |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-BRE-14B | Static Downlink Block Floating Point + Selective 14 Bits (CU-plane) |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-UL-BRE-9B | Static Uplink Block Floating Point 9 Bits + Selective RE   (C-plane only) |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-UL-BRE-14B | Static Uplink Block Floating Point 14 Bits + Selective RE (C-plane only) |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-MRE | Static Downlink Modcomp + Selective RE Compression (CU_plane) |

| Stimulus File Name | Description |
| --- | --- |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-UNC-16B | Downlink Uncompressed (CU-plane) |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-UNC-16B | Uplink Uncompressed (C-plane) |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-FPF-9B | Downlink Fixed Point 9 Bits (CU-plane) |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-FPF-14B | Downlink Fixed Point 14 Bits (CU-plane) |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-FPF-9B | Uplink Fixed Point 9 Bits (C-plane only) |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-FPF-14B | Uplink Fixed Point 14 Bits (C-plane only) |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-BFP-9B | Downlink Block Floating Point 9 Bits (CU-plane) |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-BFP-14B | Downlink Block Floating Point 14 Bits (CU-plane) |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-BFP-9B | Uplink Block Floating Point 9 Bits (C-plane only) |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-BFP-14B | Uplink Block Floating Point 14 Bits (C-plane only) |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-BSC-9B | Downlink Block Scaling 9 Bits (CU-plane) |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-BSC-14B | Downlink Block Scaling 14 Bits (CU-plane) |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-BSC-9B | Uplink Block Scaling 9 Bits (C-plane only) |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-BSC-14B | Uplink Block Scaling 14 Bits (C-plane only) |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-MLW-9B | Downlink Mu-Law 9 Bits (CU-plane) |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-MLW-14B | Downlink Mu-Law 14 Bits (CU-plane) |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-MLW-9B | Uplink Mu-Law 9 Bits (C-plane only) |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-MLW-14B | Uplink Mu-Law 14 Bits (C-plane only) |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-MC | Non-Static Downlink Modulation Compression |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-UNC-BRE-16B | Static Downlink Uncompressed (CU-plane) with both empty and allocated RE in the same symbol |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-UNC-BRE-16B | Static Uplink Uncompressed (C-plane only) with both empty and allocated RE in the same symbol |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-BRE-9B | Downlink Block Floating Point + Selective RE 9 Bits  (CU-plane) |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-BRE-14B | Downlink Block Floating Point + Selective RE 14 Bits  (CU-plane) |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-BRE-9B | Uplink Block Floating Point + Selective RE  9 Bits  (C-plane only) |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-BRE-14B | Uplink Block Floating Point + Selective RE 14 Bits  (C-plane only) |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-MRE | Downlink Modcomp + Selective RE Compression |

To ensure that the compressed IQ exponent value is properly tested, each symbol of the test frame will include 3 sections with different power levels.  The Power levels are relative powers to the first group of PRBs transmitted.  Any valid 3GPP power level may be used for the first set of PRBs as long as the power levels of the remaining PRBs are also valid.  Figure 3.2.3.3-1 below shows PRB power relative to the first set of PRBs.

0 dB for the bottom third of total PRBs in the symbol (referred as PDSCH0)

-10 dB for the middle third of total PRBs in the symbol (referred as PDSCH1)

-20 dB for the upper third of total PRBs in the symbol (referred as PDSCH2)

The spectrum representation of the frame shown in Figure 3.2.3.3-1 below highlights the various power levels for each group of PRBS within a symbol.

To validate that user data has not been impacted by compression, the test payload for the 3 sections is each based on an individual PN23 sequence that will be measured and compared by the test apparatus.

To maximise coverage on the compressed IQ mantissa value, the test frame will use the highest possible modulation, limited to 256 QAM modulation for downlink.  An example measurement is show in Figure 3.2.3.3-2.

3 measurements types will be required for downlink tests and 4 measurements will be required for uplink tests.

Power level:  Using the test frames (NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-DL and NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-UL) sent twice with both compressed and uncompressed IQ data, power level measurements are performed to validate compression algorithms influence on Exponent (udCompParam).  The Power level measurements are called:

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH0 in dBm

CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH0 in dBm

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH1 in dBm

CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH1 in dBm

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH2 in dBm

CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH2 in dBm

For the test to pass, the difference between measurements should be within an acceptable range, called

ACC_PWR_PDSCH0 = ± 1dB

ACC_PWR_PDSCH1 = ± 1dB

ACC_PWR_PDSCH2 = ± 1dB

EVM:  Using a common test frame sent twice with both compressed and uncompressed IQ data, EVM measurements comparisons between uncompressed IQ and compressed IQ will help validate acceptable compression influence on signal quality.

These 6 EVM measurements required:

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH0 in %

CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH0  in %

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH1  in %

CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH1  in %

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH2  in %

CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH2  in %

For the test to pass, the difference between the compressed and uncompressed measurements for the same PDSCH signal must be within the following range:

ACC_EVM_PDSCH0 ≤ 4 percentage points

ACC_EVM_PDSCH1 ≤ 4 percentage points

ACC_EVM_PDSCH2 ≤ 4 percentage points

An example measurement showing both power and EVM is shown below in Figure 3.2.3.3-3.

|  |
| --- |

Payload Data Integrity:  comparing user data between the O-RAN test frame and the RF measurement to validate that compression does not influence user data.  The User data measurements are called:

CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH0

CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH1

CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH2

CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH0

CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH1

CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH2

For the data integrity test to pass, the comparison between stimulus payload and the measured payload should be free of any errors (i.e. BER=0).

Presence/Absence of U-Plane Header measurements (uplink only): to validate that in the U-Plane PRB header, the udCompHeader, “reserved” and udCompParam fields are correctly absent for Static compression mode or present for other compression modes.

Table 3.2.3-9 describes the measurements required for each compression option in the downlink.

| Downlink | Power Level | EVM | Data Integrity |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Uncompressed IQ (fixed 16 bits) | Perform power measurements on the 3 groups of PRBs to create 3 power reference points | Perform EVM measurements on the 3 groups of PRBs to create 3 EVM reference points | N/A |
| Fixed point (< 16 bits fixed IQ) | Perform the test using same test waveforms in compressed mode and check if 3 power measurements are within acceptable range | Perform the test using same test waveforms in compressed mode and check if 3 EVM measurements are within acceptable range | If power level and EVM OK, then verify user data integrity with BER measurement on payload |
| Block floating point | Perform the test using same test waveforms in compressed mode and check if 3 power measurements are within acceptable range | Perform the test using same test waveforms in compressed mode and check if 3 EVM measurements are within acceptable range | If power level and EVM OK, then verify user data integrity with BER measurement on payload |
| Block scaling | Same as above |  |  |
| Mu Law | Same as above |  |  |
| Modulation Compression | Same as above |  |  |
| Block floating point + Selective RE | Same as above |  |  |
| Block scaling +  Selective RE | Same as above |  |  |

As the same methodology is used across the different compression modes, the conformance test can be viewed as series of instances of the same test structure with different parameter values as shown below in

| Test name | DL/UL | Compression | IQ Width |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario - Static Format (SF) |  |  |  |
| UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Static Format (SF) Fixed-Point (FPF) | DL | Fixed point | 9 bits  14 bits |
| UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Static Format (SF) Fixed-Point (FPF) | UL | Fixed Point | 9 bits  14 bits |
| UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Static Format (SF) Block Floating Point (BFP) | DL | Block Floating point | 9 bits  14 bits |
| UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Static Format (SF) Block Floating Point (BFP) | UL | Block Floating point | 9 bits  14 bits |
| UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Static Format (SF) Block Scaling (BSC) | DL | Block Scaling | 9 bits  14 bits |
| UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Static Format (SF) Block Scaling (BSC) | UL | Block Scaling | 9 bits  4 bits |
| UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Static Format (SF) Mu-Law (MLW) | DL | Mu-Law | 9 bits  14 bits |
| UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Static Format (SF) Mu-Law (MLW) | UL | Mu-Law | 9 bits  14 bits |
| UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Static Format (SF) Modulation Compressed Format | DL | Modulation Compression | N/A |
| UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Static Format Modulation Compressed Format | DL | Block Floating point + Selective RE | 9 bits  14 bits |
| UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Static Format Modulation Compressed Format | UL | Block Floating point + Selective RE | 9 bits  14 bits |
| UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Static (ST) mod-compr Format + Selective RE (MRE) | DL | Modulation Compression + Selective RE | 4-bits |
| UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario - Non-Static Format Test (NS) |  |  |  |
| UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Non-Static (NS) Fixed-Point (FPF) | DL | Fixed point | 9 bits  14 bits |
| UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Non-Static (NS) Fixed-Point (FPF) | UL | Fixed Point | 9 bits  14 bits |
| UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Non-Static (NS) Block Floating Point (BFP) | DL | Block Floating point | 9 bits  14 bits |
| UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Non-Static (NS) Block Floating Point (BFP) | UL | Block Floating point | 9 bits  14 bits |
| UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Non-Static (NS) Block Scaling (BSC) | DL | Block Scaling | 9 bits  14 bits |
| UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Non-Static (NS) Block Scaling (BSC) | UL | Block Scaling | 9 bits  4 bits |
| UC-Plane O-DU CMP Scenario Non-Static (NS) Mu-Law (MLW) | DL | Mu-Law | 9 bits  14 bits |
| UC-Plane O-DU CMP Scenario Non-Static (NS) Mu-Law (MLW) | UL | Mu-Law | 9 bits  14 bits |
| UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Non-Static (NS) Modulation Compressed Format | DL | Modulation Compression | 4-bits |
| UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Non-Static (NS) Block Floating Point + Selective RE (BRE) | DL | Block Floating point + Selective RE | 9 bits  14 bits |
| UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Non-Static (NS) Block Floating Point + Selective RE (BRE) | UL | Block Floating point + Selective RE | 9 bits  14 bits |
| UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Non-Static (NS) mod-compr Format + Selective RE (MRE) | DL | Modulation Compression + Selective RE | 4-bits |

In general, for each specific Compression Test in this conformance test document, the test will pass if the following conditions are met:

Power measurement differences between Uncompressed and Compressed are within acceptable range

EVM measurement difference between Uncompressed and Compressed are within acceptable range

Data integrity measurements show no data corruption

Uplink U-Plane Header measurements exclude fields for static compression

These test criteria and expected results are summarized below in 3.2.3.3-6.

| Test name | Test Attributes | Acceptance Threshold Criteria |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Test name | DL UL | Compression | IQ Width | Power difference | EVM difference | BER |
| UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Fixed-Point Format (FPF) | DL | Fixed point | 9 bits | ACC_PWR_PDSCH0 = ACC_PWR_PDSCH1 = ACC_PWR_PDSCH2 = +/- 1 dB | ACC_EVM_PDSCH0 = ACC_EVM_PDSCH1 = ACC_EVM_PDSCH2 ≤ 4 percentage points | BER = 0 |
| UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Fixed-Point Format (FPF) | DL | Fixed point | 14 bits | Same as above | BER = 0 |  |
| UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Fixed-Point Format (FPF) | UL | Fixed Point | 9 bits | Same as above | BER = 0 |  |
| UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Fixed-Point Format (FPF) | UL | Fixed Point | 14 bits | Same as above | BER = 0 |  |
| UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Block Floating Point Compression (BFP) | DL | Block Floating point | 9 bits | Same as above | BER = 0 |  |
| UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Block Floating Point Compression (BFP) | DL | Block Floating point | 14 bits | Same as above | BER = 0 |  |
| UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Block Floating Point Compression (BFP) | UL | Block Floating point | 9 bits | Same as above | BER = 0 |  |
| UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Block Floating Point Compression (BFP) | UL | Block Floating point | 14 bits | Same as above | BER = 0 |  |
| UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Block Scaling Compression (BSC) | DL | Block Scaling | 9 bits | Same as above | BER = 0 |  |
| UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Block Scaling Compression (BSC) | DL | Block Scaling | 14 bits | Same as above | BER = 0 |  |
| UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Block Scaling Compression (BSC) | UL | Block Scaling | 9 bits | Same as above | BER = 0 |  |
| UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Block Scaling Compression (BSC) | UL | Block Scaling | 4 bits | Same as above | BER = 0 |  |
| UC-Plane O-DU CMP Scenario Mu-Law Compression (MLW) | DL | Mu-Law | 9 bits | Same as above | BER = 0 |  |
| UC-Plane O-DU CMP Scenario Mu-Law Compression (MLW) | DL | Mu-Law | 14 bits | Same as above | BER = 0 |  |
| UC-Plane O-DU CMP Scenario Mu-Law Compression (MLW) | UL | Mu-Law | 9 bits | Same as above | BER = 0 |  |
| UC-Plane O-DU CMP Scenario Mu-Law Compression (MLW) | UL | Mu-Law | 14 bits | Same as above | BER = 0 |  |
| UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Modulation Compressed Format | DL | Modulation Compression | 4-bits | Same as above | BER = 0 |  |
| UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Block Floating Point Compression  + Selective RE (BRE) | DL | Block Floating point + Selective RE | 9 bits | Same as above | BER = 0 |  |
| UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Block Floating Point Compression  + Selective RE (BRE) | DL | Block Floating point + Selective RE | 14 bits | Same as above | BER = 0 |  |
| UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Block Floating Point Compression  + Selective RE (BRE) | UL | Block Floating point + Selective RE | 9 bits | Same as above | BER = 0 |  |
| UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Block Floating Point Compression  + Selective RE (BRE) | UL | Block Floating point + Selective RE | 14 bits | Same as above | BER = 0 |  |
| UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Modulation Compressed + Selective RE Format | DL | Modulation Compression + Selective RE | 4-bits | Same as above |  |  |

Table 3.2.3-11  Compression Test Acceptance Threshold Criteria

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) Fixed-Point (FP)

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format.

The purpose of this test is to:

Validate correct encoding of IQ data under the following conditions.

RU Static compression configurations

Fixed point IQ data format

Selection of 2 supported bit width: 9 bits, 14 bits

Uplink / downlink

Validate that in the U-Plane PRB header, the udCompHeader, “reserved” and udCompParam fields are not present

Test Entrance Criteria

The test uses the setup and methodology described in clause 3.2.1.1.

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

The O-RU is started

Fronthaul Ethernet interface configured for communication between TER and the DUT.

O-RU synchronized with TER using S-Plane

Communication established between TER and the DUT such that it is possible to exchange U-Plane and C-Plane messages

signal analyzer connected to DUT’s antenna port and setup according to DUT RF output configuration

signal source connected to DUT’s antenna port and setup according to DUT RF input configuration

Procedure

For each supported bit width (9 bits, 14 bits), the following tests need to be performed:

- Downlink test
Via the M-Plane or another suitable mechanism, put the O-RU into a static configuration with the downlink configured as follows: no compression, (16 bits)

- Arm signal analyzer to capture the next Frame
- Send the “uncompressed” NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-UNC-16B test stimulus file to the DUT
With the signal analyzer, perform the 3 power measurements

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH0 in dBm

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH1 in dBm

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH2 in dBm

With the signal analyzer, perform the 3 EVM measurements

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH0 in %

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH1 in %

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH2 in %

With the signal analyzer, check Data integrity measurements

CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH0

CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH1

CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH2

Via the M-Plane or another suitable mechanism, put the O-RU into a static configuration with the downlink configured as follows: Fixed point, 9-bit (then 14 bits)

Send the “Compressed” NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-FPF-9B (then 14B) test stimulus file to the DUT

With the signal analyzer, perform the 3 power measurements

CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH0 in dBm

CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH1 in dBm

CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH2 in dBm

With the signal analyzer, perform the 3 EVM measurements

CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH0 in %

CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH1 in %

CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH2 in %

With the signal analyzer, check Data integrity measurements

CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH0

CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH1

CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH2

Verify the following conditions

Power measurements within acceptable range

Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH0 and CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH0 is within ACC_PWR_PDSCH0 range

Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH1 and CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH1 is within ACC_PWR_PDSCH1 range

Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH2 and CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH2 is within ACC_PWR_PDSCH2 range

EVM  measurements within acceptable range

Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH0 and CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH0 is less than ACC_EVM_PDSCH0

Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH1 and CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH1 is less than ACC_EVM_PDSCH1

Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH2 and CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH2 is less than ACC_EVM_PDSCH2

BER Measurements show no errors

CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH0 =0

CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH1  =0

CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH2 =0

CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH0 =0

CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH1 =0

CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH2 =0

Uplink test

Via the M-Plane or another suitable mechanism, put the O-RU into a static configuration with the uplink configured as follows: no compression, 16-bit

Arm signal source to generate the Frame NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-UL

Arm CUSM-E to send the “uncompressed” NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-UL-UNC-16B test stimulus file to the DUT

ARM CUSM-E to capture the Uplink U-Plane Data from the DUT

Launch the test

Extract IQ information from Capture U-Plane trace

Using the signal analyzer software, perform the 3 power measurements

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH0 in dBm

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH1 in dBm

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH2 in dBm

Using the signal analyzer software, perform the 3 EVM measurements

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH0 in %

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH1 in %

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH2 in %

Using the signal analyzer software, check Data integrity measurements

CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH0

CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH1

CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH2

Via the M-Plane or another suitable mechanism, put the O-RU into a static configuration with the uplink configured as follows: Fixed point, 9-bit (then 14 bits)

Arm signal source to generate the Frame NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-UL

Arm CUSM-E to send the “Compressed” NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-UL-FPF-9B test stimulus file to the DUT

Arm CUSM-E to capture the Uplink U-Plane Data from the DUT

Launch the test

Extract IQ information from Capture U-Plane trace

Using the signal analyzer software, perform the 3 power measurements

CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH0 in dBm

CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH1 in dBm

CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH2 in dBm

Using the signal analyzer software, perform the 3 EVM measurements

CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH0 in %

CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH1 in %

CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH2 in %

Using the signal analyzer software, check Data integrity measurements

CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH0

CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH1

CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH2

- Validate correct U-Plane PRB header structure
- U-Plane udComphdr (per clause 8.3.3.13 of [2])
- U-Plane udCompParam (per clause 8.3.3.15 of [2])
- Validate that the power measurements within acceptable range
Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH0 and CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH0 is withinACC_PWR_PDSCH0 range

Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH1 and CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH1 is withinACC_PWR_PDSCH1 range

Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH2 and CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH2 is withinACC_PWR_PDSCH2 range

EVM measurements within acceptable range

Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH0 and CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH0 is less than ACC_EVM_PDSCH0

Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH1 and CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH1 is less than ACC_EVM_PDSCH1

Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH2 and CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH2 is less than ACC_EVM_PDSCH2

- Validate that the BER Measurements show no errors
CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH0 = 0

CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH1 = 0

CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH2 = 0

CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH0 = 0

CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH1 = 0

CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH2 = 0

Test Requirement (expected result)

- All validation steps above are within expected ranges or correctly match the expected outcome.

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) Block Floating Point (BFP)

Test Description and Applicability

- This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format.
This static format test scenario for Block Floating Point Format will verify DL and UL correct encoding of IQ information for 2 supported bit widths: 9 bits or 14 bits.

Test Entrance Criteria

Same as 3.2.3.3.2 for Block floating point formats.

Test Methodology

Same as 3.2.3.3.2 with Static Block Floating Point test patterns

NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-BFP-9B

NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-BFP-14B

NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-UL-BFP-9B

NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-UL-BFP-14B

Test Requirement (expected result)

- Same as 3.2.3.3.2.

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) Block Scaling

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format.

This static format test scenario for Block Scaling Format will verify DL and UL correct encoding of IQ information for 2 supported bit widths: 9 bits or 14 bits.

Test Entrance Criteria

Same as 3.2.3.3.2 for Block Scaling point formats.

Test Methodology

Same as 3.2.3.3.2 with Static Block Scaling test patterns

NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-BSC-9B

NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-BSC-14B

NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-UL-BSC-9B

NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-UL-BSC-14B

Test Requirement (expected result)

Same as 3.2.3.3.2.

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) Mu-Law (MLW)

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format.

This static format test scenario for Mu-Law Format will verify DL and UL correct encoding of IQ information for 2 supported bit widths: 9 bits or 14 bits.

Test Entrance Criteria

Same as 3.2.3.3.2 for Mu-Law formats.

Test Methodology

Same as 3.2.3.3.2 with Static Mu-Law test patterns

NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-MLW-9B

NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-MLW-14B

NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-UL-MLW-9B

NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-UL-MLW-14B

Test Requirement (expected result)

Same as 3.2.3.3.2

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) Modulation-Compressed Format

- Test Description and Applicability
This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format.

This modulation compression format scenario is a static format scenario, based on 3.2.3.3.2 with some important differences

- The purpose is to validate Radio Unit’s correct interpretation of the Modulation compression parameters used in the Section Extension Type = 4 and/or Section Extension Type 5 , based on the section extensions a radio supports.
If the O-RU only supports section extension 4 on a given endpoint, then:

- Section extension 4 shall be used for all symbols containing PDSCH REs and for symbols containing both PDSCH and DMRS REs.
If the O-RU only supports section extension 5 on a given endpoint, then:

- Section extension 5 shall be used for all symbols containing PDSCH REs and for symbols containing both PDSCH and DMRS REs.
- If the radio supports 4 and 5 on a given endpoint, then
- Section extension 4 shall be used for symbols containing only PDSCH REs .
- Section extensions 5 shall be used for symbols containing DMRS + PDSCH REs.
- When high level modulation is supported by the Device Under Test (DUT), Section Extension Type 5 messages will be tested on the current compression test frame , that includes Mixed MCS test cases where high MCS user data REs and low MCS DMRS signaling data REs are in the same PRB.
- The test will only verify DL correct encoding of IQ information, as the Modulation Compression model is not applicable for uplink
- As the Modulation Compression model does not require IQ bit width to be setup, there is no need to run multiple compression tests for various IQ bit width.

| Stimulus File Name | Description |
| --- | --- |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-UNC-16B | Static Downlink Uncompressed (CU-plane) |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-MC | Static Downlink Modulation Compression |

- Test Entrance Criteria
Same as 3.2.3.3.2.

- Test Methodology
Same as 3.2.3.3.2 with Static Modulation Compression test patterns

NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-MC

Note that this test is only applicable to the downlink and therefore should only follow the downlink steps of the referenced test case above.  Via the M-Plane or another suitable mechanism, put the O-RU into a static configuration with the downlink configured as follows: Modulation Compression.

Test Requirement (expected result)

All validation steps for the downlink referenced in 3.2.3.3.2 are within expected ranges or correctly match the expected outcome.

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static (NS) Fixed-Point (FPF)

- Test Description and Applicability
This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format.

This Fixed-Point Format scenario is a non-static format scenario that will verify DL and UL correct encoding of IQ information for 2 supported bit widths: 9 bits or 14 bits.

- Test Entrance Criteria
Same as 3.2.3.3.2.

- Test Methodology
Initial Conditions

- Same as 3.2.3.3.2  Non-Static Fixed-Point test patterns
Via the M-Plane or another suitable mechanism, disable the O-RU Static IQ and compression format

Procedure

For each supported bit width (9 bits, 14 bits), the following tests need to be performed:

Downlink test

Arm signal analyzer to capture the next Frame

Send the uncompressed” NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-UNC-16B test stimulus file to the DUT

With the signal analyzer, perform the 3 power measurements

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH0in dBm

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH1 in dBm

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH2 in dBm

With the signal analyzer, perform the 3 EVM measurements

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH0 in %

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH1 in %

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH2 in %

With the signal analyzer, check Data integrity measurements

CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH0

CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH1

CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH2

Send the “Compressed” NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-FPF-9B (then 14B) test stimulus file to the DUT

With the signal analyzer, perform the 3 power measurements

CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH0 in dBm

CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH1 in dBm

CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH2 in dBm

With the signal analyzer, perform the 3 EVM measurements

CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH0 in %

CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH1 in %

CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH2 in %

With the signal analyzer, check Data integrity measurements

CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH0

CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH1

CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH2

Validate that the power measurements within acceptable range

Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH0 and CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH0 is within ACC_PWR_PDSCH0 range

Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH1 and CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH1 is within ACC_PWR_PDSCH1 range

Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH2 and CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH2 is within ACC_PWR_PDSCH2 range

Validate that the EVM  measurements within acceptable range

Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH0 and CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH0 is within ACC_EVM_PDSCH0 range

Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH1 and CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH1 is within ACC_EVM_PDSCH1 range

Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH2 and CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH2 is within ACC_EVM_PDSCH2 range

Validate that the BER Measurements show no errors

CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH0 =0

CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH1 =0

CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH2 =0

CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH0 =0

CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH1 =0

CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH2 =0

Uplink test

Arm signal source to generate the Frame NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-UL

Arm CUSM-E to send the “uncompressed” NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-UNC-16B test stimulus file to the DUT

Arm CUSM-E to capture the Uplink U-Plane Data from the DUT

Launch the test

Extract IQ information from Captured U-Plane trace

Using the signal analyzer software, perform the 3 power measurements

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH0 in dBm

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH1 in dBm

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH2 in dBm

Using the signal analyzer software, perform the 3 EVM measurements

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH0 in %

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH1 in %

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH2 in %

Using the signal analyzer software, check Data integrity measurements

CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH0

CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH1

CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH2

Via the M-Plane or another suitable mechanism, put the O-RU into a Non-Static configuration

Arm signal source to generate the Frame NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-UL

Arm CUSM-E to send the “Compressed” NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-CMP-9B (then 14B) test stimulus file to the DUT

ARM CUSM-E to capture the Uplink U-Plane Data from the DUT

Launch the test

Extract IQ information from Captured U-Plane trace

Using the signal analyzer software, perform the 3 power measurements

CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH0 in dBm

CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH1 in dBm

CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH2 in dBm

Using the signal analyzer software, perform the 3 EVM measurements

CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH0 in %

CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH1 in %

CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH2 in %

Using the signal analyzer software, check Data integrity measurements

CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH0

CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH1

CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH2

Validate correct U-Plane PRB header structure

U-Plane udComphdr (per clause 8.3.3.13 of [2])

U-Plane udCompParam (per clause 8.3.3.15 of [2]

Validate that the power measurements within acceptable range

Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH0 and CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH0 is within ACC_PWR_PDSCH0 range.

Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH1 and CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH1 is within ACC_PWR_PDSCH1 range.

Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH2 and CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH2 is within ACC_PWR_PDSCH2 range.

Validate that the EVM measurements within acceptable range

Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH0 and CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH0 is less than ACC_EVM_PDSCH0 value.

Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH1 and CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH1 is less than ACC_EVM_PDSCH1 value.

Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH2 and CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH2 is less than ACC_EVM_PDSCH2 value.

Validate that the BER Measurements show no errors

CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH0 = 0

CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH1 = 0

CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH2 = 0

CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH0 = 0

CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH1 = 0

CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH2 = 0

- Test Requirement (expected result)
1.	All validation steps above are within expected ranges or correctly match the expected outcome.

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static (NS) Block Floating Point

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format

This Block Floating-Point Format scenario is a non-static format scenario that will verify DL and UL correct encoding of IQ information for 2 supported bit widths: 9 bits or 14 bits.

Test Entrance Criteria

Same as 3.2.3.3.7 for Block floating point formats.

Test Methodology

Same as 3.2.3.3.7 with Static Block Floating Point test patterns

NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-BFP-9B

NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-BFP-14B

NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-BFP-9B

NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-BFP-14B

Test Requirement (expected result)

Same as 3.2.3.3.7.

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static (NS) Block Scaling (BSC)

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format.

This Block Scaling Format scenario is a dynamic-format scenario that will verify DL and UL correct encoding of IQ information for 2 supported bit widths: 9 bits or 14 bits.

Test Entrance Criteria

Same as 3.2.3.3.2 for Block Scaling formats.

Test Methodology

Same as 3.2.3.3.2 with Static Block Scaling test patterns

NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-BSC-9B

NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-BSC-14B

NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-BSC-9B

NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-BSC-14B

Test Requirement (expected result)

- Same as 3.2.3.3.7

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static (NS) Mu-Law (MLW)

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format.

This Mu-Law Format scenario is a dynamic-format scenario that will verify DL and UL correct encoding of IQ information for 2 supported bit widths: 9 bits or 14 bits.

Test Entrance Criteria

Same as 3.2.3.3.2 for Mu-Law formats.

Test Methodology

Same as 3.2.3.3.7 with Mu-Law format test patterns

NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-MLW-9B

NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-MLW-14B

NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-MLW-9B

NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-MLW-14B

Test Requirement (expected result)

Same as 3.2.3.3.7.

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static Format (NS) Modulation-Compressed Format

- Test Description and Applicability
This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format.

This modulation compression format scenario is a non-static format scenario, based on 3.2.3.3.2 with some important differences

- The purpose is to validate Radio Unit’s correct interpretation of the Modulation compression parameters used in the Section Extension Type = 4 and/or Section Extension Type 5 , based on the section extensions a radio supports.
If the O-RU only supports section extension 4 on a given endpoint, then:

- Section extension 4 shall be used for all symbols containing PDSCH REs and for symbols containing both PDSCH and DMRS REs.
If the O-RU only supports section extension 5 on a given endpoint, then:

- Section extension 5 shall be used for all symbols containing PDSCH REs and for symbols containing both PDSCH and DMRS REs.
- If the radio supports 4 and 5 on a given endpoint, then
- Section extension 4 shall be used for symbols containing only PDSCH REs .
- Section extensions 5 shall be used for symbols containing DMRS + PDSCH REs.
When high level modulation is supported by the Device Under Test (DUT), Section Extension Type 5 messages will be tested on the current compression test frame , that includes Mixed MCS test cases where high MCS user data REs and low MCS DMRS signaling data REs are in the same PRB.

The test will only verify DL correct encoding of IQ information, as the Modulation Compression model is not applicable for uplink

As the Modulation Compression model does not require IQ bit width to be setup, there is no need to run multiple compression tests for various IQ bit width.

| Stimulus File Name | Description |
| --- | --- |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-UNC-16B | Non-Static Downlink Uncompressed (CU-plane) |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-MC | Non-Static Downlink Modulation Compression |

Test Entrance Criteria

Same as 3.2.3.3.2.

Test Methodology

Same as 3.2.3.3.7 with Static Modulation Compression test patterns

NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-DL-MC

Via the M-Plane or another suitable mechanism, put the O-RU into a static configuration with the downlink configured as follow: Modulation Compression

Test Requirement (expected result)

All validation steps above are within expected ranges or correctly match the expected outcome.

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) Block Floating Point + Selective RE Format

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format.

The Block Floating-Point+ Selective RE Format scenario is a static format scenario that will verify DL and UL correct encoding of IQ information for 2 supported bit widths: 9 bits or 14 bits.

For this test scenario, the compression test methodology will be based on the description in clause 3.2.3.3.1.

However, on top of the test frame requirements from clause 3.2.3.3.1, this test scenario also requires a test frame that MUST include PRBs with a combination of allocated and empty Resource Elements in the same symbol, to verify if the O-RU properly interprets the ReMask value in the udCompParam field (user data compression parameter). The measurements must be performed on the symbols that include a combination of empty and allocated resource elements.

The recommended DL test frame is based on Type 2 DMRS with 2 DMRS CDM groups without data. The resource mapping model for the Resource Blocks is shown Figure 3.2.3.3-, where both symbols #2 and #11 include a combination of empty and allocated Resources.

The uncompressed and compressed test frames are listed in Table 3.2.3-12  Stimulus Files for Static Compression Test

| Stimulus File Name | Description |
| --- | --- |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-UNC-RE-16B | Static Downlink Uncompressed (CU-plane) with both empty and allocated RE in the same symbol |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-UL-UNC-RE-16B | Static Uplink Uncompressed (C-plane only) with both empty and allocated RE in the same symbol |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-BRE-9B | Static Downlink Block Floating Point + Selective RE 9 Bits (CU-plane) |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-BRE-14B | Static Downlink Block Floating Point + Selective 14 Bits (CU-plane) |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-UL-BRE-9B | Static Uplink Block Floating Point 9 Bits + Selective RE   (C-plane only) |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-UL-BRE-14B | Static Uplink Block Floating Point 14 Bits + Selective RE (C-plane only) |

Test Entrance Criteria

Same as 3.2.3.3.2 for static Block floating point + Selective RE formats.

Test Methodology

Same as 3.2.3.3.2 with Static Block Floating Point + Selective RE test patterns.

The uncompressed test frames used for this test are

NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-UNC-RE-16B

NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-UL-UNC-RE-16B

The compressed test frames used for this test are

NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-BRE-9B

NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-BRE-14B

NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-UL-BRE-9B

NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-UL-BRE-14B

Test Requirement (expected result)

Same as 3.2.3.3.2.

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) mod-compr + Selective RE Format

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL- MANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format.

This modulation compression + Selective format scenario is a static format scenario, based on 3.2.3.3.2 with some important differences

The purpose is to validate Radio Unit’s correct interpretation of the Modulation compression parameters used in the Section Extension Type = 4 and Section Extension Type 5

When high level modulation is supported by the Device Under Test (DUT), Section Extension Type 5 messages will be tested on the current compression test frame , that includes Mixed MCS test cases where high MCS user data REs and low MCS DMRS signaling data REs are in the same PRB.

The test will only verify Downlink correct encoding of IQ information, as the Modulation Compression model is not applicable for uplink

As the Modulation Compression model does not require IQ bit width to be setup, there is no need to run multiple compression tests for various IQ bit widths.

On top of the test frame requirements described above , this test scenario requires a test frame that MUST include PRBs with a combination of allocated and empty Resource Elements in the same symbol, to verify if the O-RU properly interprets the ReMask value in the udCompParam field (user data compression parameter).  The measurements must be performed on the symbols that include a combination of empty and allocated resource elements.

The recommended DL test frame is based on Type 2 DMRS with 2 DMRS CDM groups without data. The resource mapping model for the Resource Blocks is shown on the diagram below, where both symbols #2 and #11 include a combination of empty and allocated Resources.

The uncompressed and compressed test frames are listed in the table below

| Stimulus File Name | Description |
| --- | --- |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-UNC-RE-16B | Static Downlink Uncompressed (CU-plane) with both empty and allocated RE in the same symbol |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-MRE | Static Downlink Modulation Compression + Selective RE |

Test Entrance Criteria

Same as 3.2.3.3.2.

Test Methodology

Same as 3.2.3.3.2 with Static Modulation Compression test patterns

The uncompressed test frames used for this test are

NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-UNC-RE-16B

The compressed test frames used for this test are

NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-MRE

Via the M-Plane or another suitable mechanism, put the O-RU into a static configuration with the downlink configured as follow: Modulation Compression  + Selective RE

Test Requirement (expected result)

Same as 3.2.3.3.2.

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static Format (NS) Block Floating Point + Selective RE Format

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format

This Block Floating-Point+ Selective RE Format scenario is a non-static format scenario that will verify DL and UL correct encoding of IQ information for 2 supported bit widths: 9 bits or 14 bits.

For this test scenario, the compression test methodology will be based on the description in clause 3.2.3.3.1

However, on top of the test frame requirements from clause 3.2.3.3.1, this test scenario also requires a test frame that MUST include PRBs with a combination of allocated and empty Resource Elements in the same symbol, to verify if the O-RU properly interprets the sReMask value in the udCompParam field (user data compression parameter). The measurements must be performed on the symbols that include a combination of empty and allocated resource elements.

The recommended DL test frame is based on Type 2 DMRS with 2 DMRS CDM groups without data. The resource mapping model for the Resource Blocks is shown on the diagram below, where both symbols #2 and #11 include a combination of empty and allocated Resources.

The uncompressed and compressed test frames are listed in Table 3.2.3-14.

| Stimulus File Name | Description |
| --- | --- |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-UNC-RE-16B | Non-Static Downlink Uncompressed (CU-plane) with both empty and allocated RE in the same symbol |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-UNC-RE-16B | Non-Static Uplink Uncompressed (C-plane only) with both empty and allocated RE in the same symbol |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-BRE-9B | Non-Static Downlink Block Floating Point + Selective RE 9 Bits (CU-plane) |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-BRE-14B | Non-Static Downlink Block Floating Point + Selective 14 Bits (CU-plane) |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-BRE-9B | Non-Static Uplink Block Floating Point 9 Bits + Selective RE   (C-plane only) |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-BRE-14B | Non-Static Uplink Block Floating Point 14 Bits + Selective RE (C-plane only) |

Test Entrance Criteria

Same as 3.2.3.3.2 for Non-Static Block floating point + Selective RE formats.

Test Methodology

Same as 3.2.3.3.7 with Non-Static Block Floating Point + Selective RE test patterns

The uncompressed test frames used for this test are

NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-UNC-BRE-16B

NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-UNC-BRE-16B

The compressed test frames used for this test are

NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-BRE-9B

NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-BRE-14B

NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-BRE-9B

NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-BRE-14B

Test Requirement (expected result)

Same as 3.2.3.3.7.

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static Format (NS) mod-compr + Selective RE Format

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format

This Modulation Compression + Selective RE Format scenario is a non-static format scenario that will verify DL correct encoding of IQ information.

This is the same as 3.2.3.3.13 with Non-Static test frames.  When high level modulation is supported by the Device Under Test (DUT), Section Extension Type 5 messages will be tested on the current compression test frame , that includes Mixed MCS test cases where high MCS user data REs and low MCS DMRS signaling data REs are in the same PRB.

The uncompressed and compressed test frames are listed in Table 3.2.3-15.

| Stimulus File Name | Description |
| --- | --- |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-UNC-RE-16B | Non Static Downlink Uncompressed (CU-plane) with both empty and allocated RE in the same symbol |
| NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-MRE | Non Static Downlink Modulation Compression + Selective RE |

Test Entrance Criteria

Same as 3.2.3.3.2 for non-static Modulation Compression + Selective RE formats.

Test Methodology

Same as 3.2.3.3.7 with Non-Static Block Floating Point + Selective RE test patterns

The uncompressed test frames used for this test are

NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-UNC-BRE-16B

The compressed test frames used for this test are

NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-MRE

Test Requirement (expected result)

Same as 3.2.3.3.7.

#### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Delay Management (DLM)

This section describes conformance test cases for O-RU Delay Management.

The test setup for these test cases is shown in 2.1.

When performing the conformance test cases for scenario class Delay Management it does not matter which timing method is used. The different timing methods are described in clause 4.4.3, 4.4.4, 4.4.5 and 4.4.6 of [2]

Delay Management downlink tests will test whether the O-RU can accurately transmit data when C and U plane messages are received at the extreme ends of their respective reception windows. Uplink tests will test whether the O-RU can accurately transmit received data to the CUSM-E when the CUSM-E transmits uplink C-Plane messages within the correct uplink reception window.  It also tests whether the O-RU sends its U-Plane messages within the correct reception window.

Figure 3.2.3.4-1 shows a simplified timing relation for the C- and U-Plane messages for downlink.

The size of the control plane reception window on the O-RU will be: (T2a_max_up +Tcp_adv_dl) – (T2a_min_up +Tcp_adv_dl) = C-Plane reception window.   The start-point (before t=0) will be: T2a_max_up + Tcp_adv_dl = start of C-Plane transmission window.

The size of the reception window for the user plane will be: T2a_max_up - T2a_min_up. The start-point (before t=0) will be T2a_max_up.

As an example, if the values are set such as T2a_max_up = 264 µs, Tcp_adv_dl = 63 µs and T2a_min_up = 53 µs, then the C-Plane reception window would be 211 µs, the start of C-plane transmission window would be 327 us, the U-plane reception window would 211 µs and the start of U-plane transmission window would be 264 µs.

The Delay Management uplink test cases for the O-RU will test that if the C-Plane fronthaul messages are received with respective reception window then the corresponding U-Plane messages will be sent in the O-RU’s transmission window.

Figure 3.2.3.4-2 shows a simplified timing relation for the C-Plane and U-Plane messages for uplink.

Similar to the downlink case, the size of the control plane reception window is T2a_max_cp_ul - T2a_min_cp_ul . The start-point of (before t=0) of the C-plane reception window is T2a_max_cp_ul.

The size of the transmission window for the user plane will be: Ta3_max_up  - Ta3_min_up. The start-point (after t=0) will be Ta3_min_up.

If we follow the same example values as the ones set in the downlink case, the C-plane reception window would be 211 µs, the start-point of the C-plane reception window would be 274 µs, the U-plane transmission window would be 70 µs and the start-point of the U-plane transmission window would be 20 µs.

The test frame used for downlink tests will be (by default) will be the 3GPP G-FR1-A1-1 FDD signal shown below in Figure 3.2.3.4-3.   If the radio does not support this signal a 3GPP test wave form that the radio supports can be substituted provided there is at least one symbol in each slot available for test traffic.  This symbol will be a stock data Section Type “B” described in 3.2.1.1.1.  This symbol will contain a new PN23 sequence starting in PRB 0 and extending to all the PRBS in the test signal (274 PRBs in the example below).

The test frame used for uplink tests will be (by default) the 3GPP G-FR1-A1-1 FDD signal shown below in Figure 3.2.3.4-4.  If the radio does not support this signal a 3GPP test wave form that the radio supports can be substituted provided there is at least one symbol in each slot available for test traffic.  This symbol will be a stock data Section Type “B” described in 2.3.1.  This symbol will contain a new PN23 sequence starting in PRB 0 and extending to all the PRBS in the test signal (25 PRBs in the example below).

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class DLM Test #1: Downlink – Positive testing

Test Description and Applicability

This test is MANDATORY.

This test case will validate that the timing on the air interface is according to requirements specified in the CUS Specification when the C-Plane and the U-Plane messages are received within the O-RU’s reception windows.

Four different test cases for downlink can be performed when the expected outcome is positive, i.e. the O-RU shall be able to transmit the received U-Plane-data on the air interface.  These are shown in Figure 3.2.3.4-5.  Note that in these tests the C-Plane reception window may be applicable to the slot or symbol boundaries depending on the Radio’s capabilities.  That is, in some radios, the C-Plane reception window is at the beginning of each slot and all C-Plane messages will be sent at once within this window.  Other radios will require C-Plane messages to be sent in a reception window for each symbol, In all cases U-Plane messages will be sent during reception windows corresponding to each symbol regardless of whether the radio has large enough buffers to store U-Plane data for multiple symbols.

1st case “C-Plane Early – U-Plane Early”; the C-Plane message is received by the O-RU at the beginning of the reception window for the C-Plane messages (indicated with small green box in figure 2.5). The corresponding U-Plane data is received in the beginning of the reception window for the U-Plane messages (indicated with small blue box in figure), i.e. Tcp_adv_dl later.

2nd case “C-Plane Early – U-Plane Late”; the C-Plane message is received by the O-RU at the beginning of the reception window for the C-Plane messages. The corresponding U-Plane data is received earliest Tcp_adv_dl after the C-Plane message i.e. in the end of the U-Plane reception window.

3rd case “C-Plane Late – U-Plane Early”; the C-Plane message is received by the O-RU at the end of the reception window for the C-Plane messages.  The corresponding U-Plane data is received earliest Tcp_adv_dl after the C-Plane message i.e. in the end of the reception window.

4th case “C-Plane Late – U-Plane Late”; this case is greyed out in the figure since it will in practice be the same case as number 3, the U-Plane message cannot be received later than it is in case 3.

Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must have a conducted antenna port (or TAB connector) to be connected to a signal analyzer.  The reception windows will be calculated and used by the CUSM-E based on the delay parameters reported by the radio on the M-Plane.

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. Connect the RF signal analyzer to the O-RU antenna port. Determine the correct reception windows the radio claims to support using delay management parameters repowered by the radio,

Procedure

Configure the CUSM-ECUSM-E to send C-Plane and U-Plane messages so these messages are received within the reception windows for respective plane according to the three cases (1..3) described in Figure 3.2.3.4-5 above. NOTE: Make sure that the C-Plane message is received at least Tcp_adv_dl earlier then the corresponding U-Plane message(s) by the O-RU.  On the RF-signal-analyzer observe the received signal and compare the decoded data on the selected test symbol to the send PN23 sequence for that symbol.

Pass/Fail Criteria (expected result)

- The test passes if the received data matches the transmitted data.

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class DLM Test #2: Uplink – Positive testing

Purpose and Description  This test is MANDATORY.

This test case will validate that the transmission of the U-Plane data in uplink direction are transmitted correctly by the O-RU within its transmission window.  The CUSM-E will send C-Plane messages at both ends of the C-Plane reception window specified by the radio using the M-Plane (Two tests).  The C-Plane messages will describe a test frame as shown above.  The frame will have one designated symbol in each slot (not containing DMRS information).  The C-Plane message will ask the radio to send that symbol’s data from each slot.  After the correct C-Plane messages are sent the CUSM-E will trigger the signal generator to send a valid test signal to the radio’s RF port.  This signal will contain a new, known PN23 sequence in the same symbol (per slot) designated by the C-Plane messages.

The positive test outcome for these uplink test cases is that the corresponding U-Plane data for a specific C-Plane message is transmitted within the O-RU’s transmission window IF the C-Plane message was received within the O-RU’s reception window as shown in Figure 3.2.3.4-6

The data will be transmitted to the radio by an external signal generator and the uplink signal will be as described above.  The test data sent by the signal generator will contain a known, new PN23 sequence in one symbol of each slot.  The CUSM-E will expect to receive the same data for the correct symbol in each slot.

Two different test cases can be identified for the uplink case. The C-Plane message is received in the beginning of the reception window or at the end of the reception window.  These test cases are shown in Figure 3.2.3.4-7 below.

1st case “Early”; the C-Plane message is received by the O-RU at the beginning of the reception window for the C-Plane messages (indicated with small green box in figure).

2nd case “Late”; the C-Plane message is received by the O-RU at the end of the reception window for the C-Plane messages.

Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must have a conducted antenna port (or TAB connector) to be connected to a signal analyzer.

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. Connect the RF Signal Generator to the O-RU antenna port.

Procedure

Configure the CUSM-E to send C-Plane so these messages are received within the reception windows according to the two cases (1..2) described in Figure 3.2.3.4-7 above.  After these messages are sent a trigger signal will be sent to the signal generator instructing it to send the correct RF test frame at t=0.  The CUSM-should receive U-Plane messages on the front haul interface during the uplink transmission window described by the radio over the M-Plane.

Pass/Fail Criteria (expected result)

The test case is passed if the correct data is received at CUSM-E in the correct time window.

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class DLM Test #3: Downlink – Negative testing

Test Description and Applicability

This test is MANDATORY.

This test case will validate that the O-RU will correctly increment relevant M-Plane counters if C-Plane and/or U-Plane messages are not received within the respective O-RU reception windows.

Negative testing for downlink traffic will verify that the O-RU will correctly increment relevant M-Plane counters if C-Plane and/or U-Plane messages are not received within the respective O-RU reception windows.  There are four test cases defined for this Downlink test and are shown in Figure 3.2.3.4-8.  The titles on each diagram show the message arrival time relative to the O-RU receive window for the C-Plane and the U-Plane in that order.  For instance, test 1: Too Early-OK means the C-Plane message arrived early, outside the O-RU C-Plane receive window and the corresponding U-Plane message arrived correctly within the O-RU U-Plane receive window.

Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must support the default parameters defined in clause 3.2.2 above, especially the parameters concerning delay management.

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Procedure

Configure the CUSM-ECUSM-E to send C-Plane and U-Plane messages so these messages are received according to the four test cases shown in figure above.

Test Requirement (expected result)

The test case is passed if the M-Plane performance measurement objects in the list “rx-window-measurement-objects” for RX_EARLY are incremented properly for tests 1 and 2 and RX_LATE are incremented properly for tests 3 and 4.

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class DLM Test #4: Uplink – Negative Testing

Test Description and Applicability

This test is MANDATORY.

This test case will validate that the O-RU will correctly increment relevant M-Plane counters if C-Plane and/or U-Plane messages are not received within the respective O-DU reception windows.

Negative testing for uplink traffic will verify that the O-RU will correctly increment relevant M-Plane counters if C-Plane and/or U-Plane messages are not received within the respective O-DU reception windows.  There are four test cases defined for this Downlink test and are shown in Figure 3.2.3.4-9.  The titles on each diagram show the message arrival time relative to the O-RU receive window for the C-Plane and the U-Plane in that order.  For instance, test 1: Too Early-OK means the C-Plane message arrived early, outside the O-RU C-Plane receive window and the corresponding U-Plane message arrived correctly within the O-RU U-Plane receive window. Negative testing for uplink traffic will verify that the O-RU will not transmit any U-Plane uplink data when C-Plane messages are not received within the window on the O-RU.

Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must support the default parameters defined in clause 3.2.2 above, especially the parameters concerning delay management.

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Procedure

Configure the CUSM-E to send C-Plane messages so these messages are received according to the two test cases shown in figure above.

Pass/Fail (expected result)

The test case is passed if the M-Plane performance measurement objects in the list “rx-window-measurement-objects” for RX_EARLY and RX_LATE are incremented properly for test 1 and test 2 respectively.

#### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Transport (TRN)

This test is for future study.

#### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class LAA (LAA)

The purpose of this clause is to specify LAA test cases to test the compliance of the O-RU to the O-RAN specifications. Although in LAA operation, regular C-Plane and U-Plane messages (used for operation over licensed spectrum as well) are transmitted over the fronthaul interface between the O-DU and O-RU, there exist additional C-Plane messages that are required specifically for LAA operation over unlicensed spectrum. These additional C-Plane messages are based on Section type 7 and are communicated in both UL and DL directions between the O-DU and O-RU.

The LAA test cases only focus on LAA-related messages and operations. Other testing aspects that are applicable to LAA and non-LAA technologies (e.g. delay management, beamforming, compression, etc.) are not considered in this clause; Please refer to other clauses in the conformance test specification document.

LAA considered in this clause is based on 3GPP Rel. 13, which only considers downlink transmission on the unlicensed spectrum (i.e. uplink transmission goes on the licensed component carrier). Hence, all the test cases in this clause will consider downlink operation only. This includes DL U-Plane messages and DL/UL C-Plane messages. Note also that UL C-Plane messages only exist in LAA technology.

The LAA test cases for the O-RU test if the O-RU is capable of conforming with the CUSM-E instructions in terms of:

Correctly performing the listen-before-talk (LBT) procedure (i.e. managing the congestion window).

Timely data transmission based on the spectrum sensing outcome.

Timely deferring from occupying the spectrum based on the messages received from the O-DU.

On the other hand, testing O-RU capabilities (e.g. spectrum sensing) is out of scope of this specifications since it’s not directly related to the O-RAN fronthaul interface.

##### CU-DU-LAA-CWM Test #1: LBT PDSCH Configuration and Response

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.  The test must be executed if the O-RU supports LAA.

This test validates that the O-RU is capable of the following functions

Correctly receiving and interpreting C-Plane messages (Section Type 7 and specifically laaMsgType 0) from the TER to correctly perform LBT.

Correctly receiving U-Plane data from the TER and correctly processes the data (i.e. drop it or transmit it) based on the LBT outcome.

Correctly performing LBT and correctly generating C-Plane messages to inform the TER about the LBT outcomes using Section Type 7 and specifically laaMsgType 2.

This test assumes that the O-RU is capable of processing Section Type 1 C-plane messages and its corresponding U-plane messages.

It applies to the O-RAN CUS Specification [2]:

- Clause 7.4
- Clause 7.5.3.14
- Clause 7.5.3.15
- Clause 7.5.3.16
- Clause 7.5.3.17
- Clause 7.5.3.18
- Clause 7.5.3.19
- Clause 7.5.3.20
- Clause 7.5.3.21
- Clause 7.5.3.22
- Clause 7.5.3.23
- Clause 7.5.3.25
- Clause 7.5.3.27
- Table 10.2-1
The purpose of this test is to:

Validate that the O-RU can correctly interpret C-Plane messages by correctly performing LBT.

Validate that the O-RU can correctly construct the UL C-Plane message as specified in Section Type 7, laaMsgType 2 with the following specialized fields. Specifically,

Verify the laaMsgLen based on the message content.

Verify that the lbtHandle parameter in the DL C-Plane message with laaMsgType 0 matches the corresponding lbtHandle parameter in the UL C-Plane message with laaMsgType 2.

Verify the lbtPdschRes parameter value. Set: {0, 1, 2, 3}.

Verify the inParSF parameter value. Set: {0, 1}

Verify the sfStatus parameter value. Set: {0, 1}.

Verify the sfnSf value.

Validate that the O-RU can correctly interpret U-Plane data received from the TER.

Validate that the O-RU can correctly interpret C-Plane messages received from the TER.

Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must support LAA

The O-RU has passed M-Plane conformance and S-Plane conformance testing.

The O-RU has antenna ports or TAB connectors for TER connections

Test Methodology

The test shall be executed by the TER issuing DL C-Plane messages to the O-RU DUT to cause the O-RU to execute LBT. Furthermore, the TER shall issue other U-Plane and C-Plane messages required for data transmission. The TER needs to emulate external interference to allow the O-RU to do LBT and send the LBT outcome to the TER based on the description in clause 7.2.5 of [2]

Initial Conditions

TER (Test Equipment, O-RU) is initialized and configured.

The O-RU is initialized, synchronized, and configured as normal, except that it shall receive and interpret Test Commands.

- The fronthaul Ethernet interface is up.
- The O-RU is running its usual software, except that it is configured to accept and execute Test Commands to enable O-RU Conformance Testing.
The TER needs to emulate the external interference (e.g. Wi-Fi, other LAA cells) for the O-RU to execute LBT.

Procedure

DL C-Plane message (LBT_PDSCH_REQ):

The TER sends DL C-Plane message to configure the DUT (i.e. O-RU) to execute LBT for PDSCH transmission using the configuration parameters in Table 3.2.3-16 below.

The TER needs to run 4 consecutive LBT trials starting from run index 1 until run index 4.

| Run Index | laaMsgType | laaMsgLen | lbtHandle | lbtOffset | lbtMode | lbtDeferFactor | lbtBackoffCounter | MCOT |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | 0 | 2 | 65,534 |  |  |  |  |  |
| 2 | 0 | 65,535 | 250 | 1 | 4 | 3 |  |  |
| 3 | 0 | 2 | 500 | 8 |  |  |  |  |
| 4 | 0 | 2 | 1 | 750 | 3 | 7 | 16 | 10 |

Table 3.2.3-16: LBT_PDSCH_REQ Configuration Parameters for Different Runs

DL U-Plane data:

TER provides U-Plane DL data to the O-RU at the correct time based on clause 5.3.4 in [2]

TER evaluates the detected U-Plane data for correctness

Note that multiple U-Plane messages are needed for every “run” (i.e. for every MCOT). Some of these U-Plane messages should get dropped by the TER based on the outcome of the LBT process.

DL C-Plane (Section type 1):

TER sends DL C-Plane message to help the DUT interpret the U-Plane data.

UL C-Plane message (LBT_PDSCH_RSP) verification:

The TER generates RF signal to emulate that the channel is busy for the durations shown in Table 3.2.3-17 below starting from the subframe where LBT is scheduled to start:

| Run Index | Channel busy duration |
| --- | --- |
| 1 | 0 |
| 2 | 2 msecs |
| 3 | 2.5 msec |
| 4 | lbt-timer (see Clause 16.2.2 in the M-plane specs) |

TER starts Timeout-Timer “T1”; “T1” is of a suitable length to allow the O-RU to receive the C-Plane and U-Plane messages, process it, and act accordingly (based on the LBT outcome and the description in clause 7.2.5 of [2]) such that timer expiry is a sign of test failure.

Test Requirement (expected result)

TER detects the U-Plane data at the correct time and for the correct duration based on Table 3.2.3-18 below and clause 7.2.5 of [2].

TER correctly detects the LBT response C-Plane messages over the fronthaul interface with results that match the emulated external interference.

TER detects the correct operation of the DUT based on the description in clause 7.2.5 of [2] and Table 3.2.3-18 below:

| Run Index | Expected behavior |
| --- | --- |
| 1 | Data transmission for 2 msecs starts after finishing initial spectrum sensing. |
| 2 | Data transmission for 3 msecs starts after finishing spectrum sensing for a minimum duration of 2 msecs. |
| 3 | Data transmission for 8 msecs starts after finishing spectrum sensing for a minimum duration of 2.5 msecs. |
| 4 | No Data transmission. LBT should fail. |

#### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class LTE (LTE)

This clause describes applicable LTE conformance test cases for O-RAN fronthaul interface. Since there are plenty of the commonalities between the NR and LTE test cases, this clause makes suitable references to the NR specific test cases clauses for the LTE scenarios whenever possible, as below.

LTE UC-Plane O-DU Scenario Class Beamforming (BFM) described in clause 3.2.3.2

LTE UC-Plane O-DU Scenario Class Compression (CMP) described in clause 3.2.3.3

LTE UC-Plane O-DU Scenario Class Delay Management (DLM) described in clause 3.2.3.4

LTE UC-Plane O-DU Scenario Class LAA (LAA) described in clause 3.2.3.6

LTE UC-Plane O-DU Scenario Class Section Type 3 described in clause 3.2.3.8

Subsequently, LTE-only specific generic test cases are explicitly covered below.  One of the key differences applicable for LTE specific test cases as compared to NR is due to the explicit precoding behavior supported by some of the transmission modes for LTE.

In particular, for a Category B O-RU to implement precoding for LTE TM2-TM4, specific C-Plane instructions need to be provided to the O-RU from the O-DU.  This specific aspect of the O-RAN fronthaul interface is enabled by the section extension = 0x3 described in the CUS Plane specification [2].

For all the test cases described in this clause:

Downlink tests will use a standard 3GPP E-TM1.1 test frame for FDD (clause 6.1.1.1  ETSI TS 136.141-1) as shown in Figure 3.2.3.7-1.

Uplink tests will use a standard 3GPP UL FRC Configuration definition for FDD (TS36.521-1) and power levels 30dB above Reference Sensitivity power level as shown in Figure 3.2.3.7-2.

All the downlink tests in this clause use a 3GPP test wave form LTE Test Model 1.1 (E-TM1.1) with 20 MHz Bandwidth as described in  ETSI TS 136.141 clause 6.1.1.1.

There are several variations on this test signal depending on the capabilities of the radio.  If for example the radio does not support the bandwidth used in the example tests as reported in the M-plane it will be up to the test developer to modify their tests to adapt to the radio.  The test is expected to follow the same spirit as the tests in this document may have to be changed.

Likewise, all uplink tests in this clause use a 3GPP test waveform described in 36.141 clause A1.  As with downlink tests if the radio does not support this signal, it is up to the test developer to modify the parameters of the test without changing the spirit of the test.

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit a basic 3GPP test frame using the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.1 of this document except for only one spatial stream on one antenna will be used.

This test is applicable for  Category A and  Category B radios (No precoding is required).

As per E-TM1.1 all user data in this test will be zeros.  The test will be conducted.

Test Entrance Criteria

- The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.13.2.1.1.2 of this document.  The test bandwidth is 20 MHz Bandwidth as described by E-TM1.1.
The O-RU must have a conducted antenna port to be connected to a signal analyzer.

The signal analyzer must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel.

- Procedure
Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Connect the signal analyzer to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors under test and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the E-TM1.1 signal described above in the CUSM-E.

Use the CUSM-E control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal. Every symbol should be described by a single section (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages.

The data in the sections must be all zeros.

No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.

Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1.  Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.

Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received by the signal analyzer should be the same as the signal described above.  If it contains all the same PRB assignments and all zero data, the test passes.

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended 3GPP DL – Resource Allocation

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can accurately interpret C-Plane resource allocation messages, transfer U-Plane data into the correct resource blocks and transmit this data accurately in the downlink.

This test requires non-zero data to populate all allocated resource blocks.  This data will be a PN23 sequence with a seed value of all ones.

This test is applicable for both  Category A and  Category B radios.

Test Entrance Criteria

- The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1 of this document.  The test bandwidth is 20 MHz Bandwidth as described by E-TM1.1.
The O-RU must have a conducted antenna port to be connected to a signal analyzer.

The signal analyzer must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel.

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Connect the signal analyzer to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors under test and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the E-TM1.1 signal described above in the CUSM-E.

Use the CUSM-E control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal. Every symbol should be described by a single section (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages.

The data in the sections must be a PN23 sequence using an initial seed of all ones.

No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.

Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1.  Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.

Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received by the signal analyzer should be the same as the signal described above.  It contains all the same PRB assignments and data the test passes.

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended 3GPP UL – Resource Allocation

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to validate correct uplink operation of the O-RU using 3GPP Reference Sensitivity level definition (Clause 7.2  ETSI TS 136.141) of the Conducted Receiver Characteristic Test (clause 7  ETSI TS 136.104) and power Levels at least 30 dB above Reference Sensitivity power Level described in E-TM1.1.  This is to improve the likelihood that all data will be received by the radio correctly since we are not interested in testing receiver sensitivity but only the O-RAN protocol compliance. The data section will be a PN23 sequence with a seed value of all ones.

Under those conditions, 3GPP compliant O-RU should deliver uplink U-Plane information that matches with the uplink signal.

The TER (Test Equipment, O-RU) generates an uplink signal on the antenna connector or TAB connector, together with the corresponding C-Plane messages on the Fronthaul interface. The TER will capture the U-Plane messages generated by the DUT and validate if the payload matches with the uplink signal.

This test is applicable for both  Category A and  Category B radios.

It applies to the following O-RAN CUS Specification [2]:

- Clause 7.4
- Clause 8.3.2
- Clause 8.3.3
Test Entrance Criteria

- The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1 of this document.  The test bandwidth is 20 MHz Bandwidth as described by E-TM1.1.
The O-RU must have a conducted antenna port to be connected to a signal analyzer.

The signal analyzer must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel.

The Radio must support the reMask parameter as notified by the M-Plane.

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Connect the signal analyzer to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors under test and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

Configure the source to transmit the required 3GPP test signal upon receiving a trigger signal from the CUSM-ECUSM-E.  The signal source power level should be adjusted to setting used in the 3GPP receiver sensitivity test.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

Procedure

Load uplink test waveform (A1-1) on the RF signal source

Configure signal source to play test waveforms on 10ms frame boundaries starting when it receives a trigger signal from the CUSM-E that C-Plane messages have been sent.

Load C-Plane message sequence on Test Equipment O-RU (TER)

Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul messages

Launch test to simultaneously play RF uplink frame and C-Plane messages

Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the Antenna port

Extract IQ information

Extract Payload

Compare payload binary sequences

Test Requirement (expected result)

The verdict is “Test pass” if payload binary sequences match between the uplink test frame sent to the DUT and the received U-Plane data from the DUT

If any of the test conditions is not true, the verdict for the whole test is "Fail"

If the DUT does not support initial conditions, the test verdict is "Inconclusive"

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using reMask parameter 3GPP DL – Resource allocation

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can accurately interpret C-Plane resource allocation messages with the reMask parameter set, transfer U-Plane data into the correct resource elements and transmit this data accurately in the downlink.  This test is applicable for  Category A and  Category B radios (No precoding is required).  The test will be conducted therefore there will be no channel distortion or interference.  It is mandatory the radio pass this test to be considered O-RAN conformant.

This test requires non-zero data to populate all allocated resource blocks.  This data will be a PN23 sequence with a seed value of all ones.  This test is applicable for both  Category A and  Category B radios.

Test Entrance Criteria

- The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1 of this document.  The test bandwidth is 20 MHz Bandwidth as described by E-TM1.1.
The O-RU must have a conducted antenna port to be connected to a signal analyzer.

The signal analyzer must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel.

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Connect the signal analyzer to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors under test and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal described above in the CUSM-E.

Use the CUSM-E control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal.

Every symbol should be described by a single type 1 section (DL-SCH and DCI) except symbols#6 which will be used for the reMask test.

The data in this section must be a PN23 sequence using an initial seed of all ones. The first bits of the PN23 will be in PRB1 and continue in consecutive resource elements to the end of PRB5. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.

Symbol number #6 should be stock data Section Type “D” as shown above.

This test will only be using PRBs 1 through 5.  The corresponding C-Plane message will contain a section IDs in a single C-Plane message describing symbol #6.

The startSymbolId in the application header will be symbol #6.

The C-Plane message will have one section with the reMask set to only the odd number resource elements.  The number of PRBs will be 5. The start PRB will be 1.

The corresponding U-Plane message will be a new PN23 Sequence (initial seed is all ones) in PRBs 1 through 5 of symbol #6.

Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received by the signal analyzer should only contain the same PN23 signals that were sent in the U-Plane but only every other odd resource element.

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class With Precoding (WPR) TxD

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to validate the correct implementation of transmit diversity of a Category B O-RU with two antenna ports.  TxD uses TM2 (transmission Mode 2).  For TxD, information for 2 layers are packed into a PRB for transmission from O-DU and are unpacked at the O-RU.  TxD precoding is applied based on the C Plane configuration before RF transmission.

Using a standard E-TM1.1 test frame for FDD the CUSM-E (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 3.2.2) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink the standard E-TM1.1 signal.

This test is applicable for  Category B radios only.

Test Entrance Criteria

- The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1 of this document.  The test bandwidth is 20 MHz Bandwidth as described by E-TM1.1.
The O-RU must have two conducted antenna ports to be connected to a signal analyzer.

The signal analyzer must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel.

The O-RU must support the Section Extension ExtType=3 parameter as notified by the M-Plane

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Connect the signal analyzer to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors under test and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the E-TM1.1 signal described above in the CUSM-E.

Use the CUSM-E control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal.

Every symbol should be described by a single section (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.

The test configures two antenna ports hence two beamIDs needed (same beamID for user data and CRS REs).  For Antenna Port 0, the beamId is contained in the C-Plane data section header, while the Antenna Ports 1 (“beamIdAP1”) is contained in the ExtType=3 .

Configure different eAxCs are used for each layer

Configure following parameters in the Section Extension ExtType=3

codebookIndex - ‘00000000’ (invalid)

layerID (Layer ID for DL transmission) - layer ID that are used for DL transmission

txScheme (transmission scheme) - ’txD’

numLayers (number of layers used for DL transmission) - 0001 (implies 2)

crsReMask (CRS resource element mask)

crsSymlNum (CRS symbol number indication)

crsShift (crsShift used for DL transmission)

Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.3.4.

Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.

Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received by the signal analyzer should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data.

The signal relation between antenna ports or TAB connectors under test should match the expected result for Tx Diversity transmission as specified in ETSI TS 136.141 clause 4.5.1.1.

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class With Precoding (WPR) SM

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to validate the correct implementation of TM3/4 Spatial Multiplexing transmission mode for a Category B O-RU with two antenna ports.  For TM3/4 Spatial Multiplexing, information for 2 layers are packed into a PRB for transmission from O-DU and are unpacked at the O-RU, subsequently TM3/4 based precoding is applied based on the C Plane configuration before over the air transmission.

Using a standard E-TM1.1 test frame for FDD the CUSM-E (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 3.2.2) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink the standard E-TM1.1 signal.

This test is applicable for  Category B radios only.

Test Entrance Criteria

- The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1 of this document.  The test bandwidth is 20 MHz Bandwidth as described by E-TM1.1.
The signal analyzer must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel.

The O-RU must support the Section Extension ExtType=3 parameter as notified by the M-Plane

The O-RU must have at least two conducted antenna ports (or TAB connectors) to be connected to a signal analyzer.

The TER with connections to the O-RU must be calibrated.

Test Methodology

a. Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Connect the signal analyzer to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors under test and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

b. Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the E-TM1.1 signal described above in the CUSM-E.

Use the CUSM-E control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal.

Every symbol should be described by a single section (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.

The test configures two antenna ports.  Therefore, two beamIDs are needed.  The same beamID is used for user data and CRS REs.

For Antenna Port 0, the beamId is contained in the C-Plane data section header, while the Antenna Ports 1 (“beamIdAP1”) is contained in the ExtType=3

Configure following parameters in the Section Extension ExtType=3 as defined in CUS Plane Specification [2].

codebookIndex - indices of the precoder codebook that are used for precoding

layerID (Layer ID for DL transmission) - layer ID that are used for DL transmission

txScheme (transmission scheme) – set to Spatial multiplexing (no CDD)

numLayers (number of layers used for DL transmission) – set to 0001 (implies 2)

crsReMask (CRS resource element mask)

crsSymlNum (CRS symbol number indication)

crsShift (crsShift used for DL transmission)

Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.3.4.

Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.

Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received by the signal analyzer should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data.

The signal relation between antenna ports or TAB connectors under test should match the expected result for MIMO transmission as specified in ETSI TS 136.141 clause 4.5.1.1.

#### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Section Type 3 (ST3)

This clause will specify the test scenarios to validate the correct decoding of C-Plane messages with Section Type 3. The required test setup is shown in 2.1, where only a stimulus RF signal is applied.

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class ST3 Test #1: NR PRACH

A. Test Description and Applicability {MANDATORY}

This test is MANDATORY.

This test will validate the correct decoding of C-Plane messages containing Section Type 3 in 5G NR scenario by testing the correct detection of a PRACH signal.

TER will setup the signal generator with a PRACH test waveform according to  ETSI TS 138.141-1 clause 8.4.1 and A.6. The test waveform will contain the same preamble ID repeated by following the timing offset scheme specified in the figures 8.4.1.4.2-2 or 8.4.1.4.2-3  ETSI TS 138.141-1 depending on the selected PRACH format.

This is an example for FR1 – SCS=30 kHz – BW=100MHz – Format A3, at each occasion the time offset of the same preamble index (selected according to table A.6-1  ETSI TS 138.141.1) is incremented by 100nsec starting from 0 up to 800nsec (9 occasions per frame). Each PRACH occasion is at the beginning of the first nine used sub-frames. The scheme is repeated every frame.

According to the PRACH waveform setting, the TER will generate a corresponding sequence of C-Plane messages with Section Type 3. By the corresponding U-Plane messages in the uplink direction, the TER will try to detect the presence of the corresponding preamble at the expected timing offset and calculate the probability of detection Pd according to the definition in TS38.141-1 clause 8.4.1.1.

The signal will be exercised at only one O-RU port without adding any external AWGN power level or multipath fading profile and at a power level avoiding detection errors due to poor SNR (rule described in C of this scenario class).

B. Test Entrance Criteria

O-RU must have a conducted antenna port (FR1) or TAB connector.

By the M-plane, TER will detect all the supported SCSs, FFT sizes and carrier bandwidths by the O-RU. To test the correct interpretation of Section Type 3, it is assumed that only one combination of the three above parameters supported by the O-RU is enough to validate the test. TER shall generate C-Plane messages according to one of the PRACH formats in table A.6-1  ETSI TS 138.141. TER will choose the format either according to the manufacturer declaration item D.103 “PRACH format and SCS” in  ETSI TS 138.141-1 or according to the format information obtained by the M-plane in case O-RU implements this feature. If more formats are claimed, only one shall be selected to reduce the test time, preference will be given to a format specified in Table A.6.1  ETSI TS 138.141. It is assumed that the O-RU manufacturer will support at least one in that table. For the case of long preambles, it is assumed format 0 is always supported since the only one shown in the table A.6-1  ETSI TS 138.141.

C. Test Methodology

a. Initial Conditions

The O-RU is synchronized using G.8275.1. The signal generator is connected to the antenna port under test and synchronized to the same frequency reference of the O-RU. CUSM-E has completed the activation of one carrier on the O-RU port and enabled one endpoint supporting Section Type 3. The endpoint is configured with no data compression.

b. Procedure

1. Set signal generator power by the following method:

Select SNR from the scenario with two RX antennas and AWGN propagation condition in table 8.4.1.5-1, 8.4.1.5-2 or 8.4.1.5-3  ETSI TS 138.141-1 depending on the selected SCS and PRACH format.

Select the AWGN power level according to the configured SCS and channel bandwidth in table 8.4.1.4.2-1  ETSI TS 138.141-1 and multiply by the PRACH signal bandwidth.  It is recommended that the selected bandwidth and subcarrier spacing under test to be one of the available combinations in the table  8.4.1.4.2-1  ETSI TS 138.141-1. If the DUT does not support one of them, it is recommended that the AWGN power level to be used for the test to be extracted with the following formula:

where ρawgn is the AWGN power density with value -150dBm/Hz and OCC_BW (Hz) is the selected occupied bandwidth for this test.

If needed for test purposes, the AWGN level can be reduced in the range 0dB to 16dB.

The output power will be given by the formula (SNR + Noise power +3 dB) rounded to the first decimal digit.  Noise power is the AWGN power in the frequency domain overlapping frequency band of the PRACH to be tested.  The extra 3dB are to compensate that SNR and noise power are selected from the two RX ports test case and this test procedure requires only one O-RU port.

For example, for the FR1 – SCS=30 kHz – BW=100MHz – Format A3 SNR is -13.5dB and noise level is -70.1dBm/98.28MHz. signal generator power = -13.5dB -70.1dBm - 10log10(139*30kHz / 98.28MHz) + 3dB = -94.3 dBm.

2. Set signal generator frequency offset to the central carrier frequency. PRACH will be mapped over frequency according to msg1-FrequencyStart () parameter equal to 0. PRACH format is set according to what TER has selected from the manufacturer declarations.

3. Start PRACH waveform generation on the signal generator. Ensure the test frame is repeated enough times to generate a statistically significant number of SRS occasions. That is at least 10 occasions.

4. Configure CUSM-E to generate C-Plane Section Type 3 messages according to the PRACH occasions described in subsection A and by the following approach:

a. In case of a PRACH format with preamble repetitions or not including preamble repetitions, only one C-Plane message with one section ID is generated per PRACH occasion. O-DU emulator will set “cpLength” field according to TS 138the format specified in clauses 7.5.2.14  and 4.4.3 of [2].  The “timeOffset” field will be set according to the PRACH occasion position inside the slot and by following the format value specified clauses 7.5.2.12 and 4.4.3 of [2].

b. In both scenarios “filterIndex” field is setup based on the PRACH format and according to Table 7.5.2.3-1 of [2] and “beamId” field will set to 0 (no beamforming).

5. TER will perform PRACH detection per each PRACH occasion and compare the result with the expected preamble ID and the expected timing offset. Since the external AWGN and fading generator are not present the time error tolerance should be low, TER will use the time error tolerance in table 8.4.1.1-1 for AWGN case according to the corresponding PRACH format and PRACH SCS. A counter of successful detections is incremented at every matching. The probability of detection is given by the ratio between that counter and the number of the expected received PRACH occasions within the test time.

6. Repeat the test procedure by setting msg1-FrequencyStart () parameter to the right edge of the configured carrier bandwidth in order to exercise a different frequency offset number in Section Type 3.

D. Pass/Fail Criteria (expected result)

- Test is pass if the probability of detection is 100% determined across the minimum amount of at least 10 occasions.

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class ST3 Test #2: LTE PRACH

A. Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

This test will validate the correct decoding of C-Plane messages containing Section Type 3 in LTE scenario by testing the correct detection of a PRACH signal.

TER will setup the signal generator with a PRACH test waveform according to  ETSI TS 136.141 clause 8.4.1 and A.6. The test waveform will contain the same preamble ID repeated by the timing offset scheme specified in the figure 8.4.1.4.2-2 and clause 8.4.1.4.2  ETSI TS 136.141.

According to the PRACH waveform setting, TER will generate a corresponding sequence of C-Plane messages with Section Type 3. By the corresponding U-Plane messages in the uplink direction, TER will try to detect the presence of the corresponding preamble at the expected timing offset and calculate the probability of detection Pd according to the definition in TS36.141 clause 8.4.1.1.

The signal will be exercised at only one O-RU port without adding any external AWGN power level or multipath fading profile and at a power level avoiding detection errors due to poor SNR (rule described in the sub-section C of this scenario class).

B. Test Entrance Criteria

O-RU must have a conducted antenna port (FR1) or TAB connector.

By the M-plane, TER will detect all the supported SCSs, FFT sizes and carrier bandwidths by the O-RU. To test the correct interpretation of Section Type 3, it is assumed that only one combination of the three above parameters supported by the O-RU is enough to validate the test. TER will choose the PRACH format according to the manufacturer declarations or according to the format information obtained by the M-plane in case O-RU implements this feature. If more formats are claimed, only one shall be selected to reduce the test time.

C.   Test Methodology

a. Initial Conditions

O-RU is synchronized using G.8275.1. signal generator is connected to the antenna port under test and synchronized to the same frequency reference of the O-RU. CUSM-E has completed the activation of one carrier on the O-RU port and enabled one endpoint supporting Section Type 3. The endpoint is configured with no data compression.

b. Procedure

1. Set signal generator power by the following method:

Select SNR from the scenario with two RX antennas and AWGN propagation condition in table 8.4.1.5-1  ETSI TS 136.141 depending on the selected PRACH format.

Select the AWGN power level according to the configured channel bandwidth in table 8.4.1.4.2-1  ETSI TS 136.141 and multiply by the PRACH signal bandwidth.  It is recommended that the selected bandwidth and subcarrier spacing under test to be one of the available combinations in the table  8.4.1.4.2-1  ETSI TS 136.141. If the DUT does not support one of them, it is recommended that the AWGN power level to be used for the test to be extracted with the following formula:

where ρawgn is the AWGN power density with value -150dBm/Hz and OCC_BW (Hz) is the selected occupied bandwidth for this test.

If needed for test purposes, the AWGN level can be reduced in the range 0dB to 16dB.

- The output power will be given by the formula (SNR + Noise power +3 dB) rounded to the first decimal digit. Noise power is the AWGN power in the frequency domain overlapping frequency band of the PRACH to be tested.  The extra 3dB are to compensate that SNR and noise power are selected from the two RX ports test case and this test procedure requires only one O-RU port.
For example, for the LTE 20MHz – Format 0 SNR is -13.9dB and noise level is -77.4dBm/18MHz. signal generator power = -13.9dB -77.4dBm + 10log10(839*1.25kHz / 18MHz) + 3dB = -100.7dBm .

2. Set signal generator frequency offset to the central carrier frequency. PRACH will be mapped over frequency according to prach-FrequencyOffset (  ) parameter equal to 0. PRACH format is set according to what TER has selected from the manufacturer declarations.

3. Start PRACH waveform generation on the signal generator. Ensure the test frame is repeated enough times to generate a statistically significant number of PRACH occasions. That is at least 10 occasions.

4. Configure CUSM-E to generate C-Plane Section Type 3 messages according to the PRACH occasions described in subsection A and by the following approach:

- In case of a PRACH format with preamble repetitions or not including preamble repetitions, only one C-Plane message with one section ID is generated per PRACH occasion. O-DU emulator will set “cpLength” field according to  ETSI TS 138the format specified in clauses 7.5.2.14 and 4.4.3 of [2].  The timeOffset” field will be set according to the PRACH occasion position inside the slot and by following the format value specified clauses 7.5.2.12 and 4.4.3 of [2].
- In both scenarios “filterIndex” field is setup based on the PRACH format and according to Table 7.5.2.3-1 of [2] and “beamId” field will set to 0 (no beamforming).
5. The TER will perform PRACH detection per each PRACH occasion and compare the result with the expected preamble ID and the expected timing offset. Since the external AWGN and fading generator are not present, the time error tolerance should be low.  The TER will use the time error tolerance defined in clause 8.4.1.1  ETSI TS 136.141 for AWGN (1.04usec).  On the TER, a counter is incremented for each successful preamble detection. The probability of detection is given by the ratio between that counter and the number of the expected received PRACH occasions within the test time.

6. Repeat the test procedure by setting  parameter of PRACH to the right edge of the configured carrier bandwidth in order to exercise a different frequency offset number in Section Type 3.

D.  Pass/Fail Criteria (expected result)

- Test is pass if the probability of detection is 100% determined across the minimum amount of at least 10 occasions.

### FR1 FDD Non-conducted OTA Signal Tests

The generic tests for FR1 FDD Non-conducted OTA are the same as the tests described in clause 3.2.3 FR1 FDD Conducted-Signal Tests.  Only the setup for the tests are different reflecting the difference between non-conductive and conductive mode testing.

This clause describes the beamforming conformance testing for O-RAN fronthaul interface. The tests do not aim to test the O-RU beamforming performance or capabilities but to test that the O-RU under test focuses the RF energy or sensitivity into a specific direction and with a specific granularity following the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) C-Plane messages.

Unless stated otherwise in a test case, the following statements apply to all the test cases defined in this clause:

It is based on Over-the-Air (OTA) testing with a setup such as described in clause 2.1 and it may be applied to any O-RU DUTs, whether the O-RU DUTs have conducted antenna ports or TAB connectors or not.

It applies to  Category A and  Category B O-RU DUTs.

It applies to LTE and/or 5G New Radio O-RU DUTs.  In both cases, precoding is not required in any test case.

If O-RU DUT supports Analog Beamforming (i.e. time domain beamforming), all the U-Plane test frames are defined by segmenting the Stock Test A: 1 section per symbol.  The definition of this Stock Test A can be found in Figure 3.2.1.1-2 and the description accompanying this figure.  Each slot shall include multiple sections (one per symbol within the slot) and only one beam at a time (i.e. one beamId at a time) and therefore only one beam can be tested per slot.

If O-RU DUT supports Digital Beamforming (i.e. frequency domain beamforming), all the U-Plane test frames are defined by segmenting the Stock Test B: 2 sections per symbol definition as shown in Figure 3.2.1.1-2.  Each slot shall include multiple sections (two per symbol within the slot) and only one beam per section at a time (i.e. one beamId at a time) and therefore up to two different beams can be tested per slot.

If O-RU DUT supports multiple polarizations, it is up to the TER to determine if the testing is carried out for each polarization separately or multiple polarizations at the same time. In any case, it is important to guarantee that the correct eAxC_ID for the correct polarization (or polarizations) is exercised.

For O-RU DUT that support LTE:

Downlink tests will use a standard 3GPP E-TM1.1 test frame for FDD (clause 6.1.1.1 TS 136.141) with 20MHz bandwidth (100 RB) as shown in Figure 3.2.4.2-1.

Figure 3.2.4.2-1 E-TM1.1 FDD 20 MHz 100RB

If 20MHz is not supported by the O-RU DUT, then it will use the highest bandwidth supported by the O-RU DUT.

Uplink test will use a standard 3GPP UL FRC Configuration definition for FDD (TS36.521-1) and power levels at least 30dB above Reference Sensitivity power level with 20MHz bandwidth (100 RB) as shown in Figure 3.2.4.2-2.

Figure 3.2.4.2-2 UL FRC FDD 20 MHz 100 RB

If 20MHz is not supported by the O-RU DUT, then it will use the highest bandwidth supported by the O-RU DUT.

For O-RU DUT that support 5G NR:

Downlink tests will use a standard 3GPP NR-FR1-TM1.1 test frame for FDD in [19] (clause 4.9.2 TS138.141-1) of the Conducted Transmitter Characteristic Test (clause 6 TS138.141-1) as described in clause 3.2.1.1. The test numerology will be preferably 30kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth. If not supported, then it will use any other supported subcarrier spacing and the highest bandwidth of the O-RU DUT.

Uplink tests will use a standard 3GPP G-FR1-A1-5 Reference Sensitivity level definition (clause 7.2 and Annex A TS138.141-1) of the Conducted Receiver Characteristic Test (clause 7  ETSI TS 138.141) and power levels at least 30dB above Reference Sensitivity power level as described in clause 3.2.1.1.  The test numerology will be preferably 30kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth, if supported. Otherwise, it will use any available subcarrier space and the highest bandwidth supported by the O-RU DUT.

Radiated tests coordinate system is based on the coordinate system defined in clause 12.5.2 of  [2].

The O-RU DUT must:

support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.2 of this document.

have installed current release of shipping software.

be fully calibrated up to Radiated Interface Boundary (RIB). It is expected to be calibrated by O-RU vendor prior to testing.

The TER must:

be capable of carrying out any signal processing required to generate and demodulate 3GPP compliant waveforms.

be able to calculate or extract the beam direction via OTA measurements.

be able to generate and deliver signals with the required beam direction at the RIB point.

be fully calibrated up to the interface where it interacts with the DUT’s RIB. For that, a known test signal might be either injected by the TER into the O-RU DUT, or internally generated by the O-RU DUT, and the O-RU DUT must not apply any digital or analog beam direction to the known test signal.  One possible method to perform calibration uses injected C-Plane and U-Plane signals from TER into the O-RU and using C-Plane messages with beamID=0. Alternatively, calibration methods for radiated test setups that are described in ETSI TR 137.941 can be used.

The O-DU emulator of the TER must:

be capable of generating and sending U-Plane messages containing 3GPP test frames following the corresponding Stock sectioning defined above, as well as be capable of capturing U-Plane messages and extracting 3GPP test frames (i.e. IQ data) from the captured U-Plane messages.

be capable of generating the C-Plane messages for, receiving, extracting and demodulating the 3GPP test frames following the corresponding Stock sectioning defined above.

The TER might have a single test antenna if a single beam direction and polarization is measured at a time, or multiple test antennas if multiple beam directions and/or polarizations are measured at the same time.

It is up to the TER on how to extract the beam direction and beam properties at the DUT’s RIB in order to match it with the manufacturer’s declaration.

The user payload will be generated as PN23 with a seed of all ones.

It applies to the following O-RAN CUS Specification [2]:

Clause 7.4

Clause 8.3.2

Clause 8.3.3

Clause 12

Annex J

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit a basic 3GPP test frame with no beamforming (beamId=0x000) and with one spatial stream (single eAxC).

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

Manufacturers’ declaration that defines list of beam directions when O-RU DUT is operating with no beamforming.

C.	Test Methodology

a.	Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Ensure that the test antenna/s and TER equipment is calibrated within acceptable tolerance.

Place the test antenna/s to a defined position within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2 and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

Place the O-RU into a test calibrated point within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.

Align the O-RU to a default initial position, i.e. align the O-RU to the origin of coordinates of the declared coordinate reference point and orientation in the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

b.	Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator.

Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by either one or two  sections (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.

Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.2.

Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.

Measure any metric/s that allows for extracting the transmitted beam direction from a single measurement, i.e. transform-based techniques, or take as many measurements of any metric/s from multiple angles, by for example rotating the O-RU, that allows for extracting beam direction from multiple measurement, i.e. beam scanning.

D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured by the signal analyzer at the expected transmitted beam direction should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received at the expected transmitted beam direction by the signal analyzer should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data.

The extracted beam direction is defined as the direction where the best metric/s were measured (i.e. best EVM, power, SNR, etc.) and should match the expected beam direction for the expected no beamforming within a tolerance defined by the manufacturer.

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can receive a basic 3GPP test frame with no beamforming (beamId=0x000) and with one spatial stream (single eAxC).

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

Manufacturers’ declaration that defines list of beam directions when O-RU DUT is operating with no beamforming.

C.	Test Methodology

a.	Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Ensure that the test antenna/s and TER equipment is calibrated within acceptable tolerance.

Place the test antenna/s to a defined position within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2 and configure the signal source with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and generate the test signal.

Place the O-RU into a test calibrated point within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.

Align the O-RU to a default initial position, i.e. align the O-RU to the origin of coordinates of the declared coordinate reference point and orientation in the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

b.	Procedure

Build an appropriate test signal described above in the signal source of the TER.

Inject the test signal into the O-RU with the application of an initial beam direction. This initial beam direction could be the boresight direction of the receiver antenna array.

Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by either one or two  sections (UL-SCH) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.

Play the C plane messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.2 while also triggering the signal source.

Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the DUT, allow it to create and send the U plane messages to the O-DU.

Allow the O-DU to demodulate, decode and extract the payload and to measure and extract any required metric/s from the received signal that will be used later to determine what is the best received direction.

Repeat the previous steps but now in step b apply a different beam direction when injecting the test signal into the O-RU. Repeating the process for a number of different beam directions will exercise the reception of the test signal from different beam directions. This allows to determine if the O-RU is really focusing the sensitivity to the correct beam direction.

D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

The test frame received at the expected beam direction by the TER/O-DU should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data.

The extracted beam direction is defined as the direction where the best metric/s were measured (i.e. best EVM, power, SNR, etc.) and should match the expected beam direction for the expected no beamforming within a tolerance defined by the manufacturer.

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit a basic 3GPP test frame with predefined-beams beamforming (beamId≠0x000) and with one spatial stream (single eAxC).

The transmitted beam direction is measured for each indexed beam required in this measurement, see below. The measured transmitted direction is compared to manufacturer-designated direction. Transmitted direction is defined by extracting the beam direction.

The elevation θ and azimuth Φ angles are defined as in clause 12.4.2.2 of  [2].

The UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Predefined-beam Beamforming conformance test might include multiple test that the O-RU must comply:

“Coarse” beamIds test:

If O-RU supports and reports beamIds that are defined as coarse granularity (coarse beamIds) to the O-DU emulator, the test should include the following beams:

A beam with 0 degrees azimuth (Φ) and elevation (θ) angles.

A beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ).

A beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ).

A beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ).

A beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ).

If the O-RU only supports one azimuth (Φ) or elevation angle (θ), fewer than 5 beam angles will be measured.

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

Manufacturers’ defined list of beam indices and their associated beam directions with antenna array characteristics.

C.	Test Methodology

a.	Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Ensure that the test antenna/s and TER equipment is calibrated within acceptable tolerance.

Place the test antenna/s to a defined position within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2 and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

Place the O-RU into a test calibrated point within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.

Align the O-RU to a default initial position, i.e. align the O-RU to the origin of coordinates of the declared coordinate reference point and orientation in the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

b.	Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator.

Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by either one or two  sections (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.

Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.2.

Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.

Measure any metric/s that allows for extracting the transmitted beam direction from a single measurement, i.e. transform-based techniques, or take as many measurements of any metric/s from multiple angles, by for example rotating the O-RU, that allows for extracting beam direction from multiple measurement, i.e. beam scanning.

D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured by the signal analyzer at the expected transmitted beam direction should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received at the expected transmitted beam direction by the signal analyzer should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data.

The extracted beam direction is defined as the direction where the best metric/s were measured (i.e. best EVM, power, SNR, etc.) and should match the expected beam direction for the beam under test within a tolerance defined by the manufacturer.

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL mandatory.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can receive a basic 3GPP test frame with predefined-beams beamforming (beamId≠0x000) and with one spatial stream (single eAxC).

The same description and criteria for selecting the beams to be tested applies as in clause 3.2.4.2.3 applies, but instead it is related to the uplink direction.

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

Manufacturers’ defined list of beam indices and their associated beam directions with antenna array characteristics.

C.	Test Methodology

a.	Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Ensure that the test antenna/s and TER equipment is calibrated within acceptable tolerance.

Place the test antenna/s to a defined position within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2 and configure the signal source with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and generate the test signal.

Place the O-RU into a test calibrated point within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.

Align the O-RU to a default initial position, i.e. align the O-RU to the origin of coordinates of the declared coordinate reference point and orientation in the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.

- Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range
b.	Procedure

Build an appropriate test signal described above in the signal source of the TER.

Inject the test signal into the O-RU with the application of an initial beam direction. This initial beam direction could be the boresight direction of the receiver antenna array.

Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by either one or two  sections (UL-SCH) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.

Play the C plane messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.2 while also triggering the signal source.

Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the DUT, allow it to create and send the U plane messages to the O-DU.

Allow the O-DU to demodulate, decode and extract the payload and to measure and extract any required metric/s from the received signal that will be used later to determine what is the best received direction.

Repeat the previous steps but now in step b apply a different beam direction when injecting the test signal into the O-RU. Repeating the process for a number of different beam directions will exercise the reception of the test signal from different beam directions. This allows to determine if the O-RU is really focusing the sensitivity to the correct beam direction.

D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

The test frame received at the expected beam direction by the TER/O-DU should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data.

The extracted beam direction is defined as the direction where the best metric/s were measured (i.e. best EVM, power, SNR, etc.) and should match the expected beam direction for the beam under test within a tolerance defined by the manufacturer.

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit a basic 3GPP test frame with weight-based dynamic beamforming with one spatial stream (single eAxC).

The transmitted beam direction is measured for each weighted beam required in this measurement, see below. The measured transmitted direction is compared to manufacturer-designated direction. Transmitted direction is defined by extracting the beam direction.

The elevation θ and azimuth Φ angles are defined in clause 12.4.2.2 of [2].

The UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Weight-based Dynamic Beamforming conformance test should evaluate the following beams for the O-RU to comply:

A weight-based beam with 0 degrees azimuth (Φ) and elevation (θ) angles.

A weight-based beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ).

A weight-based beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ).

A weight-based beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ).

A weight-based beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ).

If the O-RU only supports one azimuth (Φ) or elevation angle (θ), fewer than 5 beam angles will be measured.

The user/tester selects the bitwidth for the mantissa or scaler of the compression method applied to the beams.

The UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Weight—based Dynamic Beamforming conformance test should also evaluate the following compression methods for each of the supported beams described above (a. to e.) for the O-RU to comply:

No compression method applied to the beamforming weights.

Block floating point compression method applied to the beamforming weights with the selected number of bit mantissa.

Block scaling compression method applied to the beamforming weights with the selected number of bit scaler.

μ-law compression method applied to the beamforming weights with the selected number of bit fixed width.

Depending on what type of Beamspace compression the DUT supports, either Beamspace compression method applied to the beamforming weights with the selected number of bit scaler, or Beamspace compression method applied to the beamforming weights with the selected number of bit mantissa.

If the O-RU does not support all the compression methods described above, fewer than 5 compression methods will be measured.

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

Manufacturers’ defined list of frequency domain (ϕ) and/or time domain (θ) weights and their associated beam directions with antenna array characteristics

C.	Test Methodology

a.	Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Ensure that the test antenna/s and TER equipment is calibrated within acceptable tolerance.

Place the test antenna/s to a defined position within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2 and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

Place the O-RU into a test calibrated point within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.

Align the O-RU to a default initial position, i.e. align the O-RU to the origin of coordinates of the declared coordinate reference point and orientation in the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

b.	Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator.

Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by one or two sections (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages, the sections in the first symbol of the slot will contain section extension extType=0x01 to convey the beam weights, it is not required that the next sections contain extension type 1 since the same beam IDs will not change along the slot. If O-RU does not support a field, then its value should be 0x0. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.

Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1.

Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.

Measure any metric/s that allows for extracting the transmitted beam direction from a single measurement, i.e. transform-based techniques, or take as many measurements of any metric/s from multiple angles, by for example rotating the O-RU, that allows for extracting beam direction from multiple measurement, i.e. beam scanning.

D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured by the signal analyzer at the expected transmitted beam direction should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received at the expected transmitted beam direction by the signal analyzer should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data.

The extracted beam direction is defined as the direction where the best metric/s were measured (i.e. best EVM, power, SNR, etc.) and should match the expected beam direction for the beam under test within a tolerance defined by the manufacturer.

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can receive a basic 3GPP test frame with weight-based beamforming and with one spatial stream (single eAxC).

The same description and criteria for selecting the beams to be tested applies as in clause 3.2.3.2.5 but applies to the uplink direction.

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

Manufacturers’ defined list of frequency domain (ϕ) and/or time domain (θ) weights and their associated beam directions with antenna array characteristics.

C.	Test Methodology

a.	Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Ensure that the test antenna/s and TER equipment is calibrated within acceptable tolerance.

Place the test antenna/s to a defined position within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2 and configure the signal source with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and generate the test signal.

Place the O-RU into a test calibrated point within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.

Align the O-RU to a default initial position, i.e. align the O-RU to the origin of coordinates of the declared coordinate reference point and orientation in the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

b.	Procedure

Build an appropriate test signal described above in the signal source of the TER.

Inject the test signal into the O-RU with the application of an initial beam direction. This initial beam direction could be the boresight direction of the receiver antenna array.

Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by one or two sections (UL-SCH) using Section Type 1 messages, the sections in the first symbol of the slot will contain section extension extType=0x01 to convey the beam weights, it is not required that the next sections contain extension type 1 since the same beam IDs will not change along the slot. If O-RU does not support a field, then its value should be 0x0. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.

Play the C plane messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.2 while also triggering the signal source.

Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the DUT, allow it to create and send the U plane messages to the O-DU and for the O-DU to demodulate, decode and extract the payload.

Repeat the previous steps but now in step b apply a different beam direction when injecting the test signal into the O-RU. Repeating the process for a number of different beam directions will exercise the reception of the test signal from different beam directions. This allows to determine if the O-RU is really focusing the sensitivity to the correct beam direction.

D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

The test frame received at the expected beam direction by the TER/O-DU should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data.

The extracted beam direction is defined as the direction where the best metric/s were measured (i.e. best EVM, power, SNR, etc.) and should match the expected beam direction for the beam under test within a tolerance defined by the manufacturer.

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit a basic 3GPP test frame with attributed-based dynamic beamforming with one spatial stream (single eAxC).

If the O-RU DUT supports Attribute based Dynamic Beamforming, this test is mandatory for the O-RU DUT to be O-RAN conformant.

The transmitted beam direction and attributes are measured for each attributed beam required in this measurement, see below. The measured transmitted direction and attributes, i.e. pointing azimuth and elevation angles, beamwidths and sidelobe suppression, is compared to manufacturer-designated direction and attributes. Transmitted direction and beam attributes are defined extracting the beam properties.

The elevation θ and azimuth Φ angles are defined as in clause 12.4.2.2 of  [2].

The UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Attribute-based Dynamic Beamforming conformance test should evaluate the following beams for the O-RU to comply:

An attribute-based beam with 0 degrees azimuth (Φ) and elevation (θ) angles with any beamwidth and sidelobe suppression supported by the O-RU under this beam direction.

An attribute-based beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ) with the widest beamwidth and lowest sidelobe suppression supported for this specific beam direction.

An attribute-based beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ) with the narrowest beamwidth and highest sidelobe suppression supported for this specific beam direction.

An attribute-based beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ) with the widest beamwidth and lowest sidelobe suppression supported for this specific beam direction.

An attribute-based beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ) with the narrowest beamwidth and highest sidelobe suppression supported for this specific beam direction.

If the O-RU only supports one azimuth (Φ) or elevation angle (θ), fewer than 5 beam angles and attribute configurations will be measured.

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

Manufacturers’ defined list of supported beam attributes that are supported by the O-RU and/or their associated beam directions with antenna array characteristics.

C.	Test Methodology

a.	Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Ensure that the test antenna/s and TER equipment is calibrated within acceptable tolerance.

Place the test antenna/s to a defined position within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2 and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

Place the O-RU into a test calibrated point within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.

Align the O-RU to a default initial position, i.e. align the O-RU to the origin of coordinates of the declared coordinate reference point and orientation in the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

b.	Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator.

Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by one or two sections (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages, the sections in the first symbol of the slot will contain section extension extType=0x02 to convey the beam weights, it is not required that the next sections contain extension type 2 since the same beam IDs will not change along the slot.  If O-RU does not support a field, then its value should be 0x0. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.

Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1.

Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.

Measure any metric/s that allows for extracting the transmitted beam attributes from a single measurement, i.e. transform-based techniques, or take as many measurements of any metric/s from multiple angles, by for example rotating the O-RU, that allows for extracting beam attributes from multiple measurement, i.e. beam scanning.

D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured at the expected beam direction by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received by the signal analyzer should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data.

The extracted beam attributes are referenced from the measured beam direction where the best metric/s were measured (i.e. best EVM, power, SNR, etc.) and should match the expected beam direction and attributes for the beam under test within a tolerance defined by the manufacturer.

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can receive a basic 3GPP test frame with attribute-based beamforming with one spatial stream (single eAxC).

Same description and criteria for selecting the beams to be tested applies as in clause 3.2.3.2.7 but considering uplink direction.

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

Manufacturers’ defined list of supported beam attributes that are supported by the O-RU and/or their associated beam directions with antenna array characteristics.

C.	Test Methodology

a.	Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Ensure that the test antenna/s and TER equipment is calibrated within acceptable tolerance.

Place the test antenna/s to a defined position within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2 and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

Place the O-RU into a test calibrated point within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.

Align the O-RU to a default initial position, i.e. align the O-RU to the origin of coordinates of the declared coordinate reference point and orientation in the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

b.	Procedure

Build an appropriate test signal described above in the signal source of the TER.

Inject the test signal into the O-RU with the application of an initial beam direction. This initial beam direction could be the boresight direction of the receiver antenna array.

Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by one or two sections (UL-SCH) using Section Type 1 messages, the sections in the first symbol of the slot will contain section extension extType=0x02 to convey the beam weights, it is not required that the next sections contain extension type 2 since the same beam IDs will not change along the slot. If O-RU does not support a field, then its value should be 0x0. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.

Play the C plane messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.12. while also triggering the signal source.

Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the DUT, allow it to create and send the U plane messages to the O-DU and for the O-DU to demodulate, decode and extract the payload.

Repeat the previous steps but now in step b apply a different beam direction when injecting the test signal into the O-RU. Repeating the process for a number of different beam directions will exercise the reception of the test signal from different beam directions. This allows to determine if the O-RU is really focusing the sensitivity to the correct beam direction with the correct beam attributes.

D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

The test frame received at the expected beam direction by the TER/O-DU should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data.

The extracted beam attributes are referenced from the measured beam direction where the best metric/s were measured (i.e. best EVM, power, SNR, etc.) and should match the expected beam direction and attributes for the beam under test within a tolerance defined by the manufacturer.

Test Description and Applicability

This Test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit a basic 3GPP test frame with channel-information-based beamforming with multiple spatial streams from multiple users (i.e. MU-MIMO).

For Category A radios, the test is for each polarization separately and consequently either different or same channel models can be defined for each of the polarization. For Category B, same channel might be used for both polarizations and the test might measure each polarization separately.

The transmitted beam direction is measured for each scenario required in this measurement.  The measured transmitted direction is extracted from the decoded received signal in the TER. Transmitted direction is defined by properly receiving a data transmission between the O-RU and the target User Equipment while destroying or heavily attenuating the data transmission between the O-RU and the other User Equipment.

The UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Channel-Information-based Beamforming conformance test should evaluate the following scenarios for the O-RU to comply and will rely on TER Channel Emulation capabilities as shown in Figure 3.2.4.2-3.

Figure 3.2.4.2-3 TER with Channel Emulation Capability antennas representing multiple UEs

A scenario where two spatial streams, or eAxC flows, are generated for two users (one layer each) with M antennas ports or TAB connectors. The O-DU will report to the O-RU via C plane messages an channel estimate , which is the effective channel as seen by the antennas representing the multiple UEs, which are spaced sufficiently such that the O-RU can effectively equalize out the interference between the users. The O-RU will calculate and apply the beamweight matrix  in such that the received signal at the users is the same as the generated in the O-DU. It is up to the O-RU on how to calculate the beamforming weights, for example Zero-forcing, regularized zero-forcing / MMSE, etc.

If O-RU supports Analog Beamforming (Time Domain Beamforming), the test should not apply any analog beamforming or time domain beamforming. In this case, M is not the number of antennas ports or TAB connectors but the number of TRX channels supported by the O-RU.

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must have at least two TRX chains with radiating antennas.

The TER equipment must include 2 antennas with sufficient separation to emulate the 2 users such that the O-RU can equalize out the mutual interference of the users due to the effective MU-MIMO channel.

Manufacturers’ defined list of number of TRX chains and what antennas are connected to each TRX chain.

C.	Test Methodology

a.	Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Ensure that the test antennas and TER equipment are calibrated within acceptable tolerance.

Place the test antennas within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2 with sufficient separation for effective MU-MIMO beamforming and configure the analyzer ports with any setup information needed to synch and demodulate the MU-MIMO transmitted signal

Place the O-RU into a test calibrated point within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.

Align the O-RU to a default initial position, i.e. align the O-RU to the origin of coordinates of the declared coordinate reference point and orientation in the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

b.	Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator, with the data symbols for user 1 and user 2 fully overlapping in time and frequency, but with user data initialized using different seeds for the PN23 sequence.

Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the scenario under test. Every symbol should be described by either one or two  sections (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 5 and 6 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.

Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1.

Capture the test signals and pass them through a channel emulator or apply the signal processing required to emulate the channel under test using the 2 test antennas.

Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frames for the 2 users.

D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured by the signal analyzer for each of the expected UE – layer - should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received by the signal analyzer for each of the expected UE – layer - should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data.

Test Description and Applicability

This Test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can receive a basic 3GPP test frame with channel-information-based beamforming with multiple spatial streams from multiple users (i.e. MU-MIMO).

Same description and criteria for selecting the beams to be tested applies as in clause 3.2.3.2.10 but considering the uplink direction.

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must have at least two TRX chains with radiating sensing antennas.

The TER equipment must include 2 antennas with sufficient separation to emulate the 2 users such that the O-RU can equalize out the mutual interference of the users due to the effective MU-MIMO channel.

The TER equipment must have at least two probe transmitting antennas to radiate the test signals to the O-RU.

The TER equipment must either include a channel emulator between the signal generator and the probe transmitting antennas or the signal generator be capable of applying the required channel matrix being emulated between the users and the O-RU.

Manufacturers’ defined list of number of TRX chains and what antennas are connected to each TRX chain.

C.	Test Methodology

a.	Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Ensure that the test antenna/s and TER equipment is calibrated within acceptable tolerance.

Place the test antenna/s to a defined position within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2 with sufficient separation for effective MU-MIMO beamforming and configure the generator with any set-up information needed to transmit the signals from the 2 UEs.

Place the O-RU into a test calibrated point within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.

Align the O-RU to a default initial position, i.e. align the O-RU to the origin of coordinates of the declared coordinate reference point and orientation in the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

b.	Procedure

Build an appropriate test signals for each of the 2 users as described above in the signal sources of the TER using a different seed to initialize the PN23 data for each user.

Inject the test signals through a channel emulator or apply the required signal processing to emulate the channel under test.

Radiate the resulting test signals over the air into the antennas of the O-RU.

Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by either one or two  sections (UL-SCH) using Section Type 5 and 6. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.

Play the C plane messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 2.4. while also triggering the signal source.

Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the DUT, allow it to create and send the U plane messages to the O-DU and for the O-DU to demodulate, decode and extract the payload for each of the users.

D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

The test frame received by the TER/O-DU for each of the expected User – layer - should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data.

The compression tests for FR1 FDD Non-conducted OTA are the same as the tests described in clause 3.2.3.3.  Only the setup for the tests are different reflecting the difference between non-conductive and conductive mode testing.

The delay management tests for FR1 FDD Non-conducted OTA are the same as the tests described in clause 3.2.3.4.  Only the setup for the tests are different reflecting the difference between non-conductive and conductive mode testing.

This test is for future study.

The LAA tests for FR1 FDD Non-conducted OTA are the same as the tests described in clause 3.2.3.6.  Only the setup for the tests are different reflecting the difference between non-conductive and conductive mode testing.

The test description is the same as in clause 3.2.3.7. FR1 FDD Conducted UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class LTE.

Only difference is that the test setup is as described in clause 3.2.1.1.2 Non-conducted OTA FDD tests for FR1 radios.

In addition, depending on the tests, it will require one of the following two setups.

The test description, execution and pass criteria is the same as described in 3.2.3.7.1.  The only difference is that the test setup is as described in clause 3.2.1.1.2 Non-conducted OTA FDD tests for FR1 radios with a single signal analyzer setup as described above in Figure 3.2.4.7-1.

Test Description and Applicability

This test is  CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit a basic 3GPP test frame using the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.1 of this document except for only one spatial stream on one antenna will be used.

This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required).

As per E-TM1.1 all user data in this test will be zeros.  The test will be conducted.

Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.1 of this document.  The test bandwidth is 20 MHz Bandwidth as described by E-TM1.1.

The signal analyzer must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel.

Procedure

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. 23

Ensure that the test antenna/s and TER equipment is calibrated within acceptable tolerance.

Place the test antenna/s to a defined position within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2 and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

Place the O-RU into a test calibrated point within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.

Align the O-RU to a default initial position, i.e. align the O-RU to the origin of coordinates of the declared coordinate reference point and orientation in the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the E-TM1.1 signal described above in the CUSM-E.

Use the CUSM-E control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal. Every symbol should be described by a single section (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages.

The data in the sections must be all zeros sequence .

No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.

Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1.  Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.

Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received by the signal analyzer should be the same as the signal described above.  If it contains all the same PRB assignments and all zero data, the test passes.

The test description, execution and pass criteria is the same as described in clause 3.2.3.7.2. The only difference is that the test setup is as described in 3.2.1.1.2 with a single signal analyzer setup as described above in Figure 3.2.4.7-1.

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can accurately interpret C-Plane resource allocation messages, transfer U-Plane data into the correct resource blocks and transmit this data accurately in the downlink.

This test requires non-zero data to populate all allocated resource blocks.  This data will be a PN23 sequence with a seed value of all ones.

This test is applicable for both Category A and Category B radios.

Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1 of this document.  The test bandwidth is 20 MHz Bandwidth as described by E-TM1.1.

The signal analyzer must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel.

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

Ensure that the test antenna/s and TER equipment is calibrated within acceptable tolerance.

Place the test antenna/s to a defined position within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2 and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

Place the O-RU into a test calibrated point within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.

Align the O-RU to a default initial position, i.e. align the O-RU to the origin of coordinates of the declared coordinate reference point and orientation in the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.

Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the E-TM1.1 signal described above in the CUSM-E.

Use the CUSM-E control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal. Every symbol should be described by a single section (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages.

The data in the sections must be a PN23 sequence using an initial seed of all ones.

No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.

Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1.  Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.

Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received by the signal analyzer should be the same as the signal described above.  It contains all the same PRB assignments and data the test passes.

The test description, execution and pass criteria is the same as described in clause 3.2.3.7.3.  The only difference is that the test setup is as described in clause 3.2.1.1.2 Non-conducted OTA FDD tests for FR1 radios with a single signal analyzer setup as described above in Figure 3.2.4.7-1.

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to validate correct uplink operation of the O-RU using 3GPP Reference Sensitivity level definition (clause 7.2  ETSI TS 136.141) of the Conducted Receiver Characteristic Test (clause 7  ETSI TS 136.104) and power levels at least 30 dB above Reference Sensitivity power Level described in E-TM1.1.  This is to improve the likelihood that all data will be received by the radio correctly since we are not interested in testing receiver sensitivity but only the O-RAN protocol compliance.

Under those conditions, 3GPP compliant O-RU should deliver uplink U-Plane information that matches with the uplink signal.

The TER (Test Equipment, O-RU) generates an uplink signal on the signal generator which is then transmitted over the air via the test antenna, together with the corresponding C-Plane messages on the Fronthaul interface. The TER will capture the U-Plane messages generated by the DUT and validate if the payload matches with the uplink signal.

This test is applicable for both  Category A and  Category B radios.

It applies to the O-RAN CUS Specification [2]:

- Clause 7.4
- Clause 8.3.2
- Clause 8.3.3
Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1 of this document.  The test bandwidth is 20 MHz Bandwidth as described by E-TM1.1.

The signal analyzer must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel.

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Configure the source to transmit the required 3GPP test signal upon receiving a trigger signal from the CUSM-ECUSM-E.  The signal source power level should be adjusted to setting used in the 3GPP receiver sensitivity test.

Ensure that the test antenna/s and TER equipment is calibrated within acceptable tolerance.

Place the test antenna/s to a defined position within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2 and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

Place the O-RU into a test calibrated point within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.

Align the O-RU to a default initial position, i.e. align the O-RU to the origin of coordinates of the declared coordinate reference point and orientation in the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

Procedure

Load uplink test waveform (A1-1) on the RF signal source. Number of allocated RB is 6 as in A1-1 and the data content is a PN23 sequence.

Configure signal source to play test waveforms on 10ms frame boundaries starting when it receives a trigger signal from the CUSM-E that C-Plane messages have been sent.

Load C-Plane message sequence on Test Equipment O-RU (TER)

Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul messages

Launch test to simultaneously play RF uplink frame and C-Plane messages

Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the Antenna port

Extract IQ information

Extract Payload

Compare payload binary sequences

Test Requirement (expected result)

The verdict is “Test pass” if payload binary sequences match between the uplink test frame sent to the DUT and the received U-Plane data from the DUT

If any of the test conditions is not true, the verdict for the whole test is "Fail"

If the DUT does not support initial conditions, the test verdict is "Inconclusive"

The test description, execution and pass criteria is the same as described in clause 3.2.3.7.4.  The only difference is that the test setup is as described in clause 3.2.1.1.2 Non-conducted OTA FDD tests for FR1 radios with a single signal analyzer setup as described above in Figure 3.2.4.7-1.

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can accurately interpret C-Plane resource allocation messages with the reMask parameter set, transfer U-Plane data into the correct resource elements and transmit this data accurately in the downlink.  This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required).  The test will be conducted therefore there will be no channel distortion or interference.  It is mandatory the radio pass this test to be considered O-RAN conformant.

This test requires non-zero data to populate all allocated resource blocks.  This data will be a PN23 sequence with a seed value of all ones.  This test is applicable for both  Category A and  Category B radios.

Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1 of this document.  The test bandwidth is 20 MHz Bandwidth as described by E-TM1.1.

The signal analyzer must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel.

Test Methodology

- Initial Conditions
Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Ensure that the test antenna/s and TER equipment is calibrated within acceptable tolerance.

Place the test antenna/s to a defined position within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2 and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

Place the O-RU into a test calibrated point within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.

Align the O-RU to a default initial position, i.e. align the O-RU to the origin of coordinates of the declared coordinate reference point and orientation in the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

- Procedure
Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the E-TM1.1 signal described above in the CUSM-E.

Use the CUSM-E control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal.

Every symbol should be described by a single type 1 section (DL-SCH and DCI) except symbols#6 which will be used for the reMask test.

The data in this section must be a PN23 sequence using an initial seed of all ones. The first bits of the PN23 will be in PRB1 and continue in consecutive resource elements to the end of PRB5. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.

Symbol number #6 should be stock data Section Type “D” as shown above.

This test will only be using PRBs 1 through 5.  The corresponding C-Plane message will contain a section IDs in a single C-Plane message describing symbol #6.

The startSymbolId in the application header will be symbol #6.

The C-Plane message will have one section with the reMask set to only the odd number resource elements.  The number of PRBs will be 4. The start PRB will be 1.

The corresponding U-Plane message will be a new PN23 Sequence (initial seed is all ones) in PRBs 1 through 5 of symbol #6.

Test Requirement (expected result)

- The signal measured by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).
- The test frame received by the signal analyzer should only contain the same PN23 signals that were sent in the U-Plane but only every other odd resource element.
The test description, execution and pass criteria is the same as described in clause 3.2.3.7.5.  The only difference is that the test setup is as described in clause 3.2.1.1.2 Non-conducted OTA FDD tests for FR1 radios with two signal analyzers setup as described above in Figure 3.2.4.7-2.

- Test Description and Applicability
This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to validate the correct implementation of transmit diversity of a Category B O-RU with two antennas.  TxD uses TM2 (transmission Mode 2).  For TxD, information for 2 layers are packed into a PRB for transmission from O-DU and are unpacked at the O-RU.  TxD precoding is applied based on the C Plane configuration before RF transmission.

Using a standard E-TM1.1 test frame for FDD the CUSM-E (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 3.2.2) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink the standard E-TM1.1 signal.

This test is applicable for Category B radios only.

- Test Entrance Criteria
The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1 of this document.  The test bandwidth is 20 MHz Bandwidth as described by E-TM1.1.

The O-RU must have at least two TRX chains with radiating antennas.

The TER equipment must include 2 antennas with sufficient separation. The TER equipment must have at least two probe receiving antennas to receive each individual layer.

The signal analyzer must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel.

The O-RU must support the Section Extension ExtType=3 parameter as notified by the M-Plane

Test Methodology

- Initial Conditions
Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Ensure that the test antenna/s and TER equipment is calibrated within acceptable tolerance.

Place the test antenna/s to a defined position within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2 and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

Place the O-RU into a test calibrated point within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.

Align the O-RU to a default initial position, i.e. align the O-RU to the origin of coordinates of the declared coordinate reference point and orientation in the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the E-TM1.1 signal described above in the CUSM-E.  the data content is a PN23 sequences starting with an initial seed of ones.

Use the CUSM-E control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal.

Every symbol should be described by a single section (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.

The test configures two antenna ports hence two beamIDs needed (same beamID for user data and CRS REs).  For Antenna Port 0, the beamId is contained in the C-Plane data section header, while the Antenna Ports 1 (“beamIdAP1”) is contained in the ExtType=3 .

Configure different eAxCs are used for each layer

Configure following parameters in the Section Extension ExtType=3

codebookIndex - ‘00000000’ (invalid)

layerID (Layer ID for DL transmission) - layer ID that are used for DL transmission

txScheme (transmission scheme) - ’txD’

numLayers (number of layers used for DL transmission) - 0001 (implies 2)

crsReMask (CRS resource element mask)

crsSymlNum (CRS symbol number indication)

crsShift (crsShift used for DL transmission)

Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.3.4.

Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.

Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received by the signal analyzer should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data.

The signal relation between received signal analyzer or channels of the signal analyzer should match the expected result for Tx Diversity transmission as specified in ETSI TS 136.141 clause 4.5.1.1.

The test description, execution and pass criteria is the same as described in clause 3.2.3.7.6. The only difference is that the test setup is as described in clause 3.2.1.1.2 Non-conducted OTA FDD tests for FR1 radios with two signal analyzers setup as described above in Figure 3.2.4.7-2.

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to validate the correct implementation of TM3/4 Spatial Multiplexing transmission mode for a Category B O-RU with two antennas.  For TM3/4 Spatial Multiplexing, information for 2 layers are packed into a PRB for transmission from O-DU and are unpacked at the O-RU, subsequently TM3/4 based precoding is applied based on the C Plane configuration before over the air transmission.

Using a standard E-TM1.1 test frame for FDD the CUSM-E (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 3.2.2) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink the standard E-TM1.1 signal.

This test is applicable for Category B radios only.

Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1 of this document.  The test bandwidth is 20 MHz Bandwidth as described by E-TM1.1.

The signal analyzer must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel.

The O-RU must have at least two TRX chains with radiating antennas.

The TER equipment must include 2 antennas with sufficient separation. The TER equipment must have at least two probe receiving antennas to receive each individual layer.

The TER with connections to the O-RU must be calibrated.

Test Methodology

a. Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Connect the signal analyzer to the O-RU TAB connectors under test and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

Ensure that the test antenna/s and TER equipment is calibrated within acceptable tolerance.

Place the test antenna/s to a defined position within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2 and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

Place the O-RU into a test calibrated point within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.

Align the O-RU to a default initial position, i.e. align the O-RU to the origin of coordinates of the declared coordinate reference point and orientation in the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

b. Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the E-TM1.1 signal described above in the CUSM-E.  .  The data content is a PN23 sequences starting with an initial seed of ones.

The codeword -to-layer mapping follows table 6.3.3.2-1 of  ETSI TS 136.211 with one codeword to two layer mapping, but does not restrict to use two codeword to two layer mapping.

Use the CUSM-E control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal.

Every symbol should be described by a single section (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.

The test configures two antenna ports.  Therefore, two beamIDs are needed.  The same beamID is used for user data and CRS REs.

For Antenna Port 0, the beamId is contained in the C-Plane data section header, while the Antenna Ports 1 (“beamIdAP1”) is contained in the ExtType=3

Configure following parameters in the Section Extension ExtType=3 as defined in CUS Plane Specification [2].

codebookIndex - indices of the precoder codebook that are used for precoding

layerID (Layer ID for DL transmission) - layer ID that are used for DL transmission

txScheme (transmission scheme) – set to Spatial multiplexing (no CDD)

numLayers (number of layers used for DL transmission) – set to 0001 (implies 2)

crsReMask (CRS resource element mask)

crsSymlNum (CRS symbol number indication)

crsShift (crsShift used for DL transmission)

Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.3.4.

Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.

Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received by the signal analyzer should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23.

The signal relation between the two signal analyzers or two channels of the signal analyzer should match the expected result for MIMO transmission as specified in ETSI TS 136.141 clause 4.5.1.1.

The Section Type 3 tests for FR1 FDD Non-conducted OTA are the same as the tests described in clause 3.2.3.8 .  Only the setup for the tests are different reflecting the difference between non-conductive and conductive mode testing.

### FR1 TDD Conducted Signal Tests

All TDD tests described in this clause will be combined UL and DL tests (i.e. a single test frame describing both uplink and downlink). The default test frame used in this clause is described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 of this document. There are several variations on this test signal depending on the capabilities of the radio.  If the radio does not support the numerology used in the example tests as reported in the M-plane it will be up to the test developer to modify their tests to adapt to the radio.  This can usually be accomplished by using stock test patterns described above.  The test is expected to follow the same spirit as the tests in this document but things like symbol numbers, number of PRBs, etc. may have to be changed.

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Base 3GPP DL/UL

Test Description and Applicability

This test is MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can meet the most basic uplink and downlink requirements for O-RAN fronthaul using a TDD signal.  Subsequent tests will build on this to exercise additional capabilities of the Fronthaul.

Using the standard TDD test frame described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink and uplink the default signal.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit and receive  a basic 3GPP, TDD test frame using the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.5 of this document (or a similar 3GPP waveform) except only one spatial stream on one antenna will be used.  This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required).  As per clause 3.2.1.1.3 this test requires all-zero data to populate all allocated resource blocks.  This configuration corresponds to stock data section A in all symbols that do not contain PDCCH channels.

Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 of this document.  The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described by TM-FR1-TM1.1 in downlink direction and G-FR1-A1-5 (SCS30k_51RB) in the uplink direction. If the O-RU does not support this bandwidth another 3GPP FRC can be selected. In the test frame, all PDSCH data is set to all zeros and PUSCH is set to all zeros.  It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors.

The O-RU must have a conducted antenna port (or TAB connector) to be connected to a signal analyzer and signal source.  It must also support the default parameters defined in clause 3.2.1.1.3 above.

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.  Connect the signal analyzer and signal source to the O-RU antenna ports and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the signal described above in clause 3.2.1.1.3 in the CUSM emulator.  Built the appropriate test frame (uplink slots) for the signal source. Use the CUSM emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal. Every symbol other than the ones used in the test should either be allocated with user data or left unallocated (empty). If allocated with user data, they be described by either a single or multiple sections (DL-SCH that are used for the test, DMRS and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.  Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages for downlink slots only. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.3.  Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.  It will be the responsibility of the TER’s signal analyzer and source to coordinate downlink and uplink TDD transmissions.  The CUSM Emulator of the TER is responsible for receiving uplink U-Plane messages, extracting IQ and decoding it to bits which can be compared to those sent by the signal source.

Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received in downlink direction by the signal analyzer should be the same as the signal described above.  If it contains all the same PRB assignments and all zero data, the test passes.

The test frame received in uplink direction by the TER should be the same as the signal described above.  If it contains all the same PRB assignments and PN23 sequence data, the test passes.

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended 3GPP DL/UL – Resource Allocation

Test Description and Applicability

This test is MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can meet the extended uplink and downlink requirements for O-RAN fronthaul using a TDD signal.  This test modifies the previous test by using a PN23 sequence in all test PDSCH sections.

Using the standard TDD test frame described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink and uplink the default signal.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit and receive  an extended 3GPP TDD test frame using the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 of this document (or a similar 3GPP waveform) except only one spatial stream on one antenna will be used.  This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required).  All downlink user data in this test will be a PN23 sequence and all uplink user data will also be a PN23 sequence.

Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 of this document.  The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described by TM-FR1-TM1.1.  It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors.

The O-RU must have a conducted antenna port (or TAB connector) to be connected to a signal analyzer and signal source.  It must also support the default parameters defined in clause 3.2.1.1.1 above.

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.  Connect the signal analyzer to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the signal described above in clause 3.2.1.1.3 in the CUSM emulator. In this case use a PN23 sequence for the downlink shared channel.  Build the appropriate test frame (uplink slots) for the signal source. Use the CUSM emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the uplink and downlink signals. Every symbol used in the test should be described by a single section (DL-SCH that are used for the test, DMRS and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.  Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages for downlink slots only. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1.  Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.  It will be the responsibility of the TER’s signal analyzer and source to coordinate downlink and uplink TDD transmissions.  The CUSM Emulator of the TER is responsible for receiving uplink U-Plane messages, extracting IQ and decoding it to bits which can be compared to those sent by the signal source.

Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received by the signal analyzer should be the same as the signal described above.  If it contains all the same PRB assignments and PN23 sequence data, the test passes.

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using RB parameter 3GPP DL/UL – Resource Allocation

Test Description and Applicability

This test is MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can accurately interpret C-Plane resource allocation messages with the rb parameter set, transfer U-Plane data into the correct resource blocks and transmit this data accurately in the downlink and interpret and capture the correct resource blocks in the uplink with the rb parameter set.    This test uses a PN23 sequence in all test PDSCH sections.

Using the standard TDD test frame described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink and uplink the specified signal using the rb bit in both uplink and downlink.

Only one spatial stream on one antenna will be used.  This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required).  All downlink user data in this test will be a PN23 sequence and all uplink user data will also be a PN23 sequence.

Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 of this document.  The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in clause 3.2.1.1.3.  It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors.

The O-RU must have a conducted antenna port (or TAB connector) to be connected to a signal analyzer.  It must also support the default parameters defined in clause 3.2.1.1.1 above.

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.  Connect the signal analyzer to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.  Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna port and configure it as described below.

Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the signal described above in clause 3.2.1.1.3 in the CUSM emulator. In this case use a PN23 sequence for the downlink shared channel.  Build the appropriate test frame (uplink slots) for the signal source. Use the CUSM emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the uplink and downlink signals. Every symbol used in the test should be described by a single section (DL-SCH that are used for the test, DMRS and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.  Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages for downlink slots only. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.3.  Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.  It will be the responsibility of the TER’s signal analyzer and source to coordinate downlink and uplink TDD transmissions.  The CUSM Emulator of the TER is responsible for receiving uplink U-Plane messages, extracting IQ and decoding it to bits which can be compared to those sent by the signal source.

For the downlink slots and symbols:

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator.  Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal.  If symbols other than the ones under test are allocated with user data, every allocated (see below) symbol should be described by sections (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages.  No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.  Symbol #3 of each slot should be Stock data section “D”  as shown in clause 3.2.1.1.5 above. The control plane for symbol #3 will only include PRBs number 5 through 23. C-Plane messages will have the rb bit set to one for this section. All other DL-SCH symbols and PRBs other than PRBs 5-23 will not contain data.  There are two ways to conduct the test:

A single data section with the rb bit set and a PN23 sequence sent as shown below:

A new PN23 sequence will be started but every other PRB will contain only the odd parts of the PN23 sequence (as shown in green).  The other PRBs (shown in orange) will not contain data and will not be sent to the O-RU.  Thus, a single data section will be used, and the corresponding U-Plane message will only contain data for the odd PRBs as shown above.  The parts of the PN23 sequence not used (shown marked with an X) will be discarded.

Two data sections one containing the odd parts of the PN23 sequence and the other containing the even parts as shown below:

A new PN23 sequence will be started but every other PRB in one section will contain only the odd parts of the PN23 sequence (as shown in green).  The second data section will contain the even parts of the PN23 sequence.  The C-Plane messages for both sections will use the rb bit. The U-Plane messages corresponding to the first data section will contain only the odd parts of the PN23 sequence, the U-Plane message corresponding to the second data section will only contain the even parts.  Thus, a continuous PN23 sequence will be sent only in PRBs 5 through 23.

Additional sections should be included to describe the DCI symbols as well as Reference Signals described in 38.141-1 as well as if DL-SCH is allocated for all the symbols other than the one under test (Symbol #3). Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1.  Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.

For the uplink sections and symbols: Load uplink test waveform (G-FR1-A1-5 : SCS30k_51RB) on the RF signal source.  Note this signal has a PN23 sequence as user data.  Configure the signal source to play the  TDD test waveforms on 10ms frame boundaries starting when it receives a trigger signal from the O-DU emulator that all C-Plane messages have been sent.  Ensure the O-RU and source are synchronized so downlink slots do not conflict with uplink slots. Load C-Plane message sequence on Test Equipment O-RU (TER) – In this test only symbol number 6 will be used and all 51 PRBs will be used.  Symbol number 6 will be a guard symbol in the flexible slot if the TDD configuration according to table 3.2.1.1 is used, so only 2 uplink slots per frame are possible. If needed, another symbol than symbol number 6 can be selected.  All other symbols may either contain user data or may be left unallocated except for required DRMS signals which may be used to synchronize test equipment. There are two options for conducting this test:

A single data section with the rb bit set and a PN23 sequence sent as shown below:

A new PN23 sequence will be started but every other PRB will contain only the odd parts of the PN23 sequence (as shown in orange).  The other PRBs (shown in  blue and white) may either have allocated user data and will be sent to the O-RU or may be left unallocated and will not be sent to the O-RU.  A single data section will be used for symbol #6, and the corresponding U-Plane message will only contain data for the odd PRBs as shown above.  The parts of the PN23 sequence not used (shown marked with an X) will be discarded.

Two data sections one containing the odd parts of the PN23 sequence and the other containing the even parts as shown below:

A new PN23 sequence will be started but every other PRB in one section will contain only the odd parts of the PN23 sequence (as shown in green).  The second data section will contain the even parts of the PN23 sequence.  The C-Plane messages for both sections will use the rb bit. The U-Plane messages corresponding to the first data section will contain only the odd parts of the PN23 sequence, the U-Plane message corresponding to the second data section will only contain the even parts.  Thus, a continuous PN23 sequence will be sent only in PRBs 0 through 51

Steps:

Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul Messages

Launch test to play the C-Plane messages and the downlink U-Plane messages and trigger the source to play the RF signal on a frame boundary.

Play messages to the O-RU respecting the timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1.  Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the frame.

Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the Antenna port

Extract IQ information from the captured U-Plane messages

Extract IQ information from the signal analyzer for downlink slots

Extract Payload for both signals

Compare payload binary sequences

Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The signal extracted by the U-Plane messages (uplink) should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received by the signal analyzer should be the same as the signal described above.  If it contains all the same PRB assignments and PN23 sequence data, the downlink test passes.

The test frame extracted from the uplink U-Plane messages should be the same as the uplink signal described above.  If it contains all the same PRB assignments and PN23 sequence data, the uplink test passes.

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using SymInc parameter 3GPP DL/UL – Resource Allocation

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can accurately interpret C-Plane resource allocation messages with the SymInc parameter set, transfer U-Plane data into the correct resource blocks and transmit this data accurately in the downlink and interpret and capture the correct resource blocks in the uplink with the SymInc parameter set.    This test uses a PN23 sequence in all test PDSCH sections.

Using the standard TDD test frame described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink and uplink the specified signal using the SymInc bit in both uplink and downlink.

Only one spatial stream on one antenna will be used.  This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required).  All downlink user data in this test will be a PN23 sequence and all uplink user data will also be a PN23 sequence.

Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 of this document.  The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in clause 3.2.1.1.3.  It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors.

The radio must support the SymInc Parameter as notified by the M-Plane.  The signal analyzer must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel.

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.  Connect the signal analyzer to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.  Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna port and configure it as described below.

Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the signal described above in clause 3.2.1.1.3 in the CUSM emulator. In this case use a PN23 sequence for the downlink shared channel.  Build the appropriate test frame (uplink slots) for the signal source. Use the CUSM emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the uplink and downlink signals. Every symbol other than the ones used in the test should either be allocated with user data or left unallocated (empty). If allocated with user data, they may be described by either a single or multiple sections (DL-SCH that are used for the test, DMRS and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.  Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages for downlink slots only. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.3.  Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.  It will be the responsibility of the TER’s signal analyzer and source to coordinate downlink and uplink TDD transmissions.  The CUSM Emulator of the TER is responsible for receiving uplink U-Plane messages, extracting IQ and decoding it to bits which can be compared to those sent by the signal source.

For the downlink slots and symbols: If the symbols other than the ones under test (symbols #5 and #6) have user data allocated, these symbols should be described by a single or multiple type 1 section (DL-SCH and DCI) except symbols #5 and #6 which will be used for the SymInc test. The data in these sections must be a PN23 sequence using an initial seed of all ones. Each symbol should be a new PN23 sequence, that is PRB 0 should contain the data from a new PN23 sequence for each symbol. Symbols number 5 and 6 should be stock data sections type “E” as shown above.  This stock data section consists of two adjacent symbols each containing two sections.  The corresponding C-Plane message will contain 4 section IDs in a single C-Plane message describing symbols #5 and #6.  The startSymbolId in the application header will be symbol #5. The third section ID for symbol #6 will have the SymInc bit set informing the O-RU that this section will begin describing symbol #6. The corresponding U-Plane messages will be a new PN23 Sequence for each symbol (5 and 6). Additional sections should be included to describe the DCI symbols as well as Reference Signals described in 38.141-1.

For the uplink sections and symbols: Load uplink test waveform (G-FR1-A1-5 : SCS30k_51RB, 100 MHz) on the RF signal source.  Note this signal has a PN23 sequence as user data.  Configure the source to generate a new PN23 sequence in symbols #5 and #6.  Configure the signal source to play test waveforms on 10ms frame boundaries starting when it receives a trigger signal from the O-DU emulator that all C-Plane messages have been sent.  Ensure the O-RU and source are synchronized so downlink slots do not conflict with uplink slots.  Load C-Plane message sequence on Test Equipment O-RU (TER) – Only symbols #5 and #6 in each slot will be used in this test. Symbol number 6 will be a guard symbol in the flexible slot if the TDD configuration according to table 3.2.1.1 is used, so only 2 uplink slots per frame are possible. If needed, another symbol than symbol number 6 can be selected.  All other symbols may either contain reference signals only or data and reference signals but will not be considered part of the test.  These two symbols will be used to determine whether the radio properly increments the current symbol ID when the SymInc bit is set. The C-Plane message for symbol #6 should have the SymInc bit set.  This message should have a third section describing symbol #6 (using the SymInc mechanism).  All PRBs in each symbol will be requested (In the example waveform 51 PRBs).

Steps:

Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul Messages

Launch test to play the C-Plane messages and the downlink U-Plane messages and trigger the source to play the RF signal on a frame boundary.

Play messages to the O-RU respecting the timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1.  Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the frame.

Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the Antenna port

Extract IQ information from the captured U-Plane messages

Extract IQ information from the signal analyzer for downlink slots

Extract Payload for both signals

Compare payload binary sequences

Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The signal extracted by the U-Plane messages (uplink) should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received by the signal analyzer should be the same as the signal described above.  If it contains all the same PRB assignments and the correct PN23 data, the downlink test passes.

The test frame extracted from the uplink U-Plane messages should be the same as the uplink signal described above.  If it contains all the same PRB assignments and correct PN23 data, the uplink test passes.

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using reMask parameter 3GPP DL/UL – Resource Allocation

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can accurately interpret C-Plane resource allocation messages with the reMask parameter set, transfer U-Plane data into the correct resource blocks and transmit this data accurately in the downlink and interpret and capture the correct resource blocks in the uplink with the reMask parameter set.    This test uses a PN23 sequence in all test PDSCH sections.

Using the standard TDD test frame described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink and uplink the specified signal using the reMask bit in both uplink and downlink.

Only one spatial stream on one antenna will be used.  This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required).  All downlink user data in this test will be a PN23 sequence and all uplink user data will also be a PN23 sequence.

Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 of this document.  The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in clause 3.2.1.1.3.  It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors.

The radio must support the reMask Parameter as notified by the M-Plane.  The signal analyzer must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel.

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.  Connect the signal analyzer to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.  Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna port and configure it as described below.

Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the signal described above in clause 3.2.1.1.3 in the CUSM emulator and modified as described below. In this case use a PN23 sequence for the downlink shared channel.  Build the appropriate test frame (uplink slots) as described below for the signal source. Use the CUSM emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the uplink and downlink signals. Every symbol other than the ones used in the test should either be allocated with user data or left unallocated (empty). If allocated with user data, they will be described by either a single or multiple sections (DL-SCH that are used for the test, DMRS and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.  Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages for downlink slots only. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.3.  Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.  It will be the responsibility of the TER’s signal analyzer and source to coordinate downlink and uplink TDD transmissions.  The CUSM Emulator of the TER is responsible for receiving uplink U-Plane messages, extracting IQ and decoding it to bits which can be compared to those sent by the signal source.

For the downlink slots and symbols:

Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal as described below. If the symbols other than the ones under test (symbol #2) have user data allocated, these Every symbols should be described by a single or multiple type 1 sections (DL-SCH and DCI).   Only symbol #2 will be used for the reMask test. The data in this section must be a PN23 sequence using an initial seed of all ones. The first bits of the PN23 will be in PRB1 and continue in consecutive resource elements to the end of PRB5. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.  The PN23 sequence will be interleaved with DMRS signals as shown below:

Symbol number 2 should be stock data Section Type “D” as shown above.  This test will only be using PRBs 1 through 5.  The corresponding C-Plane message will contain two section IDs in a single C-Plane message describing symbol #2.  The startSymbolId in the application header will be symbol #2. The C-Plane message will have one section with the reMask set to 101010101010b and another section with the reMask set to all ones.  The first section (reMask = 101010101010b) will be for PRB 1 only, the second section will be for PRBs 2-5 and will have an reMask value of all ones.  The two sections will have different section IDs.

The corresponding U-Plane messages will be a new PN23 Sequence (initial seed is all ones) in PRBs 1 through 5 of symbol #2 alternated with the DMRS signals.  The first U-Plane message will correspond to sectionID with reMask set to 101010101010b and will contain one PRB with user data and DMRS signals as shown.  The second U-Plane message will correspond to PRBs 2-5 and will containing the same alternate data. The purpose of the section ID containing valid data is to ensure the radio sends a signal to synchronize the signal analyzer.

For the uplink sections and symbols:

Load C-Plane message sequence on Test Equipment O-RU (TER) symbol #2 only PRBs 1-5 will be sent with the alternating user data and DMRS pattern shown below. Other symbols may be used in this test or be left unallocated (unused).  However other symbols containing reference signals may be used to ensure the O-RU can synchronize with the TER.    The format of symbol #2 used in this test will be:    The TER will not request any other symbols from the O-RU in this test unless they are needed by the TER for synchronization.  The C-Plane message describing symbol #2 should contain two sections with different section IDs.  Only PRBs 1-5 will be used.  The first section should only describe PRB 1 and have an reMask of 101010101010b.  The second section should describe PRBs 2-5 and have an reMask of all ones.  The two sections should have different section IDs.

Steps:

Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul Messages

Launch test to play the C-Plane messages and the downlink U-Plane messages and trigger the source to play the RF signal on a frame boundary.

Play messages to the O-RU respecting the timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1.  Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the frame.

Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the Antenna port

Extract IQ information from the captured U-Plane messages

Extract IQ information from the signal analyzer for downlink slots

Extract Payload for both signals

Compare payload binary sequences

Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The signal extracted by the U-Plane messages (uplink) should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received by the signal analyzer should only contain the same PN23 signals that were sent in the U-Plane only for PRBs 2-5.  only DMRS signals should be in PRB1.

The test frame extracted from the uplink U-Plane messages should be the same as the uplink signal described above.  In particular the U-Plane messages for PRBs 2-5 should contain user data as well as DMRS signals while PRB1 should only contain DMRS signals.

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using Non-contiguous PRB Allocation Section Extension 3GPP DL/UL – Resource Allocation

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can accurately interpret C-Plane resource allocation messages with section extension 6, transfer U-Plane data into the correct resource blocks and transmit this data accurately in the downlink and interpret and capture the correct resource blocks in the uplink with section extension 6.    This test uses a PN23 sequence in all test PDSCH sections.

Using the standard TDD test frame described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink and uplink the specified signal using section extension 6 in both uplink and downlink.

In this test stock data section definition C will be used to exercise the non-contiguous RB allocation, all 273 PRBs (51 in the uplink slots)or the max number of PRBs per symbol for the highest numerology the radio supports will be used in this test.

Only one spatial stream on one antenna will be used.  This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required).  All downlink user data in this test will be a PN23 sequence and all uplink user data will also be a PN23 sequence.

Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 of this document.  The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in clause 3.2.1.1.3.  It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors.

The radio must support section extension 6 as notified by the M-Plane.  The signal analyzer must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel.

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.  Connect the signal analyzer to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.  Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna port and configure it as described below.

Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the signal described above in clause 3.2.1.1.3 in the CUSM emulator. In this case use a PN23 sequence for the downlink shared channel.  Build the appropriate test frame (uplink slots) for the signal source. Use the CUSM emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the uplink and downlink signals. Every symbol other than the ones used in the test should either be allocated with user data or left unallocated (empty). If allocated with user data, they may be described by either a single or multiple sections  (DL-SCH that are used for the test, DMRS and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.  Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages for downlink slots only. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in section 3.2.1.1.1.  Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.  It will be the responsibility of the TER’s signal analyzer and source to coordinate downlink and uplink TDD transmissions.  The CUSM Emulator of the TER is responsible for receiving uplink U-Plane messages, extracting IQ and decoding it to bits which can be compared to those sent by the signal source.

For the downlink slots and symbols: Only symbols number 6 and 7 will be used in each slot.  Other symbols may be used in this test or be left unallocated (unused).  However other symbols containing reference signals may be used to ensure the O-RU can synchronize with the TER.  The starting PRB will be zero and number of PRBs will be chosen from one or more columns in Table 3.2.5-2 below.  The resource block group size will be 16 based on ETSI TS 138.214 Table 5.1.2.2.1-1 as shown in Table 3.2.5-1 below using configuration 2.

| Bandwidth Part Size | Configuration 1 | Configuration 2 |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 1 – 36 | 2 | 4 |
| 37 – 72 | 4 | 8 |
| 73 – 144 | 8 | 16 |
| 145 – 275 | 16 |  |

Using the calculations in clause 7.7.6 of [2] for the test waveform described above, the ID of the last RBG will be 17, f(0) will be 16, f(n) will be 16 and f(lastRbgID) will be 1 (17 total RBGs).  StartPrbc will be zero and numPrbc will be 273.  If the radio does not support this numerology the following table will apply.  The number of PRBs correspond to Table 3.2.5-2.

| # PRBs per Symbol (11-79) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| max PRB/sym | 11 | 24 | 25 | 32 | 50 | 51 | 52 | 65 | 66 | 79 |
| numPRBc | 11 | 24 | 25 | 32 | 50 | 51 | 52 | 65 | 66 | 79 |
| rbgSize | 4 | 8 | 16 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| lastRbgID | 2 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 4 |  |  |  |  |
| f(0) | 4 | 8 | 16 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| f(n) | 4 | 8 | 16 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| f(lastRbgID) | 3 | 4 | 1 | 2 | 15 |  |  |  |  |  |
| rbgMask (Hex) | 0000005 | 000003D | 000007D | 00000FD | 00001FD | 000001D |  |  |  |  |

| # PRBs per Symbol (100-273) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| max PRB/sym | 100 | 106 | 107 | 132 | 133 | 135 | 162 | 217 | 270 | 273 |
| numPRBc | 100 | 106 | 107 | 132 | 133 | 135 | 162 | 217 | 270 | 273 |
| rbgSize | 16 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| lastRbgID | 6 | 8 | 10 | 13 | 16 | 17 |  |  |  |  |
| f(0) | 16 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| f(n) | 16 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| f(lastRbgID) | 4 | 10 | 11 | 5 | 7 | 2 | 9 | 14 | 1 |  |
| rbgMask (Hex) | 000007D | 00001FD | 00007FD | 0003FFD | 001FFFD | 003FFFD |  |  |  |  |

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator.  Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal. If the symbols other than the ones under test (symbol #6 and #7) have user data allocated, these symbols should be described by a single or multiple type 1 section (DL-SCH and DCI) except symbols

#6 and #7 which will be used for the section extension 6 test. The data in symbol #6 should be a new PN23 sequence starting in the first PRB and continuing to PRB 273 (RBG number 17).  Symbol #7 should be identical to symbol #6.  The rbgMask value should be set to 0x003FFFD and the symbolMask value should be set to 00000011000000b.  No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.

The O-DU emulator will build a U-Plane message containing the PN23 IQ data for the first 16 PRBs (RBG 0), this message will have the section ID used in the C-Plane message described above.  Another U-Plane message will be created using the same section ID but with the PN23 data for RBGs 2-17 in it.  The same U-Plane messages will be used for symbol #7.

For the uplink sections and symbols: For this test symbols number 6 and 7 will be used in each slot.  The starting PRB will be zero and number of PRBs will be 51.  The resource block group size will be 8.  Using the calculations in clause 7.7.6 of [2], the ID of the last RBG will be 6, f(0) will be 8, f(n) will be 8 and f(lastRbgID) will be 3.  Every symbol should be described by a single type 1 section (DL-SCH and DCI) except symbols #6 and #7 which will be used for the section extension 6 test. Symbol number 6 will be a guard symbol in the flexible slot if the TDD configuration according to table 3.2.1.1 is used, so only 2 uplink slots per frame are possible. If needed, another symbol than symbol number 6 can be selected.  The data in symbol #6 is expected to be a new PN23 sequence starting in the first PRB and continuing to PRB 51 (RBG number 6).  Symbol #7 should be identical to symbol #6.  The rbgMask value should be set to 0x000007D and the symbolMask value should be set to 00000011000000b.  No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.  If the radio only supports another numerology see the tables above in the downlink sections and symbols for appropriate modifications.

Steps:

Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul Messages

Launch test to play the C-Plane messages and the downlink U-Plane messages and trigger the source to play the RF signal on a frame boundary.

Play messages to the O-RU respecting the timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1.  Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the frame.

Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the Antenna port

Extract IQ information from the captured U-Plane messages

Extract IQ information from the signal analyzer for downlink slots

Extract Payload for both signals

Compare payload binary sequences

Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The signal extracted by the U-Plane messages (uplink) should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received by the signal analyzer should be the same as the signal described above.  If it contains all the same PRB assignments and the correct PN23 sequence as data, the downlink test passes.

The test frame extracted from the uplink U-Plane messages should be the same as the uplink signal described above.  If it contains all the same PRB assignments and the correct PN23 sequence as data, the uplink test passes.

##### UC- Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended 3GPP DL/UL – Resource Allocation – Coupling C and U plane via time and frequency

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can meet the extended uplink and downlink requirements for O-RAN fronthaul using a TDD signal.  This test uses time and frequency to couple C-Plane and U-Plane messages.

Using the standard TDD test frame described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink and uplink the default signal.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit and receive  an extended 3GPP TDD test frame using the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 of this document (or a similar 3GPP waveform) except only one spatial stream on one antenna will be used.  This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required).  All downlink user data in this test will be a PN23 sequence and all uplink user data will also be a PN23 sequence. The radio must report over the M-Plane that it supports C and U plane coupling via time and frequency.

Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 of this document.  The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described by TM-FR1-TM1.1.  It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must report over the M-Plane that it supports C and U plane coupling via time and frequency.

The O-RU must have a conducted antenna port (or TAB connector) to be connected to a signal analyzer and signal source.  It must also support the default parameters defined in clause 3.2.1.1.1 above.

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.  Connect the signal analyzer to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the signal described above in clause 3.2.1.1.3 in the CUSM emulator. In this case use a PN23 sequence for the downlink shared channel.  Build the appropriate test frame (uplink slots) for the signal source. Use the CUSM emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the uplink and downlink signals. Every symbol used in the test should be described by a single section (DL-SCH that are used for the test, DMRS and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.  Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages for downlink slots only. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in section 3.2.1.1.1.  Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.  It will be the responsibility of the TER’s signal analyzer and source to coordinate downlink and uplink TDD transmissions.  The CUSM Emulator of the TER is responsible for receiving uplink U-Plane messages, extracting IQ and decoding it to bits which can be compared to those sent by the signal source.  All section IDs in C-Plane messages and downlink U-Plane messages must be 4095.

C-Plane and Downlink U-Plane messages sent by the TER will have valid values in the following fields:

- EAxC ID
- Datadirection bit
- Frame ID, subframeID, slotID, startsymbolID, and NumSymbol
- SectionID must have a value 4095
- SymInc, rb reMask and section extension #6 are not used in this test
It is the responsibility of the TER to properly arrange uplink U-Plane messages using only time and frequency resources.

Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

All received U-Plane messages must have section ID equal to 4095

The test frame received by the signal analyzer should be the same as the signal described above.  If it contains all the same PRB assignments and PN23 sequence data, the test passes.

##### UC- Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended 3GPP DL/UL – Coupling C and U plane via Time and Frequency and Section Description Priorities

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to test whether the radio can implement coupling U and C plane via time and frequency and section description priorities requirements for O-RAN fronthaul using a TDD signal.  This test combines the FDD, uplink and downlink tests for these same features.  Note, there are two versions of this feature: coupling C and U plane messages via frequency and time and Section Description Priorities and coupling C and U plane messages via frequency and time and Section Description Priorities (optimized).  This test requires both tests to be performed if the radio supports both methods otherwise only one test is to be performed in the radio only supports one of these methods.  These methods are listed under test methodology below.

Starting with the standard TDD test frame described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink and uplink the signals described below.

Only one spatial stream on one antenna will be used.  This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required).  All downlink user data in this test will be a PN23 sequence and all uplink user data will also be a PN23 sequence.

Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 of this document and those specified below.  The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described by TM-FR1-TM1.1.  It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors.  It will be a TDD signal.

The O-RU must have a conducted antenna port (or TAB connector) to be connected to a signal analyzer and signal source.  It must also support the default parameters defined in clause 3.2.1.1.1 above.

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.  Connect the signal analyzer to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

- Procedure for Coupling C and U plane messages via frequency and time with section priorities
Build an appropriate C and U plane signals for the signals described below in the CUSM emulator. Every slot used in the test should be described by a single C-Plane message with multiple sections (DL-SCH that are used for the test, DMRS and DCI) using a Section Type 1 message. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.  Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages for downlink slots only. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1.  Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.  It will be the responsibility of the TER’s signal analyzer and source to coordinate downlink and uplink TDD transmissions.  The CUSM Emulator of the TER is responsible for receiving uplink U-Plane messages, extracting IQ and decoding it to bits which can be compared to those sent by the signal source.

- Downlink procedure:

| # | Section ext 6 | priority | symbolMask | startPrbc | numPrbc | reMask | rbgMask | beamId | numSymbol | Note |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | yes | +1 | 00000000000100 | 0 | 192 | 010001000100 | 0xFFFFC00 | CSI reference signal (CSI-RS) |  |  |
| 2 | yes | +1 | 00100000000000 | 0 | 192 | 010001000100 | 0xFFFFC00 | 1 | CSI reference signal (CSI-RS) |  |
| 3 | no | 0 | 11111000000000 Not used in this section without section extension 6. Just shown for information | 273 | 111111111111 | N/A | 100 | 5 | UE1 |  |
| 4 | yes | 0 | 00000000001100 | 15 | 32 | 111111111111 | 0x6000000 | 200 | 2 | UE2 |
| 5 | no | 0 | 00000111110000 Not used in this section without section extension 6. Just shown for information | 31 | 48 | 111111111111 | N/A | 300 | UE3 |  |
| 6 | no | 0 | 00000000000011 Not used in this section without section extension 6. Just shown for information | 10 | 2 | 111111111111 | N/A | 3 | Special channel |  |

In this test the section configuration will be as shown in Table 3.2.5-3above.  The 6 sections will comprise one slot and this slot will be repeated continuously in the downlink slots in the TDD frame to synchronize the TER signal analyzer.  The six sections will be sent on one C-Plane message using C and U plane coupling via time and frequency.  The configuration above follows the example given in the CUSM specification.

The section numbers in the above table do not represent SectionID numbers but individual sections. Sections #1 and #2 describe hypothetical CSI-RS signals sent in symbols #2 and #11 in each slot.  These signals have sub-carriers masked by reMask.  The CSI-RS signals generation follows ETSI TS 138.211 V16.2.0 (or after), clause 7.4.1.5 with nID  = 0, row 1, N=1 and L=1.  These sections use section extension 6 and contain a higher priority than all other sections.

Section #3 describes PN23 data sent to hypothetical UE #1 it overlaps REs in sections #1 and #2 but has a lower priority so sections #1 and #2 are valid.  Since section #3 has contiguous symbols section extension 6 is not needed.

Section #4 is for hypothetical UE #2.  It shares symbol 2 with the CSI-RS signal in Section #1.  Since the symbols are not contiguous it uses sections extension 6 but the priority is set to the default 0.

Section #5 is for hypothetical UE #3 and uses a contiguous set of symbols so section extension 6 is not needed.  It does not overlap any other signals. It shares symbol 2 with the CSI-RS signal in Section #1.  This section is optional because it does not test Section Description Priority.

Section #6 is a hypothetical special channel using two symbols and does not require section extension 6.  This section is also optional.

U-Plane messages will contain:

- CSI-RS signals as described by section #1 for symbol #2
- CSI-RS signals as described by section #2 for symbol #11
- A new PN23 sequence in each of the last 5 symbols as described in section #3.  Note that for symbol #11 the PN sequence will be pierced by the CSI-RS signals.
- A new PN23 sequence for symbol #2 as described by section #4 as well as a new PN sequence for symbol #3.  These sequences are only 32 PRBs long and start in PRB 15. The sequence in symbol #2 will be pierced by CSI-RS signals.
- The user data for sections number #5 and #6 are standard PN23 sequences only for these symbols and PRBs described in the table above.
Procedure for Coupling C and U plane messages via frequency and time with section priorities (optimized)

This test will be identical to the above test with the following exceptions:

There will be two C-Plane messages describing the uplink and downlink signals to be sent.

The first two sections listed in the table above (those with higher priorities) will be repeated in both C-Plane messages and will have a section ID equal to a value between 0 and “max-highest-priority-sections-per-slot” as sent on the M-Plane.

The other sections will be divided between the two C-Plane messages and not repeated.

The repeated C-plane message will have the “repetition” bit set to one.

Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received by the signal analyzer must be the same as the signal described above.  It must contain all the same PRB assignments and PN23 sequences.

(VOID)

The beamweights or magnitude and phase relation at the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) of the test signal that achieves the highest performance (i.e. best EVM, power, SNR, etc.) should match with the manufacturer’s declaration of the beam under test.  The procedure for test case 3.2.3.2.3 (UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Predefined-beam Beamforming) should be used.

These expected results are applicable for either or both forms of this test.

If all of the above results are observed the test passes.

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using Non-contiguous PRB Allocation Section Extension using section extension 12 3GPP DL/UL – Resource Allocation

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can accurately interpret C-Plane resource allocation messages with section extension 12, transfer U-Plane data into the correct resource blocks and transmit this data accurately in the downlink and interpret and capture the correct resource blocks in the uplink with section extension 12.    This test uses a PN23 sequence in all test PDSCH sections.

Using the standard TDD test frame described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink and uplink the specified signal using section extension 12 in both uplink and downlink.

In this test stock data section definition C will be used to exercise the non-contiguous RB allocation, all 273 PRBs (48 of the 51 in the uplink slots) or the max number of PRBs per symbol for the highest numerology the radio supports will be used in this test.

Only one spatial stream on one antenna will be used.  This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required).  All downlink user data in this test will be a PN23 sequence and all uplink user data will also be a PN23 sequence.

Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 of this document.  The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in clause 3.2.1.1.3.  It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors.

The radio must support section extension 12 as notified by the M-Plane.  The signal analyzer must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel.

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.  Connect the signal analyzer to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.  Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna port and configure it as described below.

Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal as described above in clause 3.2.1.1.3 in the CUSM emulator. In this case use a PN23 sequence for the downlink shared channel.  Build the appropriate test frame (uplink slots) for the signal source. Use the CUSM emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the uplink and downlink signals. Every symbol used in the test should be described by a single section (DL-SCH that are used for the test, DMRS and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.  Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages for downlink slots only. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1.  Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.  It will be the responsibility of the TER’s signal analyzer and source to coordinate downlink and uplink TDD transmissions.  The CUSM Emulator of the TER is responsible for receiving uplink U-Plane messages, extracting IQ and decoding it to bits which can be compared to those sent by the signal source.

For the downlink slots and symbols: Only symbols number 6 and 7 will be used in each slot.  Other symbols may contain data including reference signals to ensure test equipment can synchronize with the signal.  The starting PRB will be zero and number of PRBs will be chosen from one or more columns in Table 3.2.5-5 below.  The resource block group size will be 16 based on ETSI TS 138.214 Table 5.1.2.2.1-1 as shown in Table 3.2.5-4 below using configuration 2.

| Bandwidth Part Size | Configuration 1 | Configuration 2 |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 1 – 36 | 2 | 4 |
| 37 – 72 | 4 | 8 |
| 73 – 144 | 8 | 16 |
| 145 – 275 | 16 |  |

Using the calculations in clause 7.7.6 of [2] for the test waveform described above, the ID of the last RBG will be 17, f(0) will be 16, f(n) will be 16 and f(lastRbgID) will be 1 (17 total RBGs).  StartPrbc will be zero and numPrbc will be 273.  If the radio does not support this numerology the following table will apply.  The number of PRBs correspond to Table 3.2.5-5.

| # PRBs per Symbol (11-79) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| max PRB/sym | 11 | 24 | 25 | 32 | 50 | 51 | 52 | 65 | 66 | 79 |
| numPRBc | 11 | 24 | 25 | 32 | 50 | 51 | 52 | 65 | 66 | 79 |
| rbgSize | 4 | 8 | 16 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| lastRbgID | 2 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 4 |  |  |  |  |
| f(0) | 4 | 8 | 16 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| f(n) | 4 | 8 | 16 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| f(lastRbgID) | 3 | 4 | 1 | 2 | 15 |  |  |  |  |  |

| # PRBs per Symbol (100-273) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| max PRB/sym | 100 | 106 | 107 | 132 | 133 | 135 | 162 | 217 | 270 | 273 |
| numPRBc | 100 | 106 | 107 | 132 | 133 | 135 | 162 | 217 | 270 | 273 |
| rbgSize | 16 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| lastRbgID | 6 | 8 | 10 | 13 | 16 | 17 |  |  |  |  |
| f(0) | 16 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| f(n) | 16 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| f(lastRbgID) | 4 | 10 | 11 | 5 | 7 | 2 | 9 | 14 | 1 |  |

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator.  Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal. Every symbol should be described by a single type 1 section (DL-SCH and DCI) except symbols

#6 and #7 which will be used for the section extension 12 test. The data in symbol #6 should be a new PN23 sequence starting in the first PRB and continuing to PRB 273 (RBG number 17).  Symbol #7 should be identical to symbol #6.  The symMask value should be set to 00000011000000b.  No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.  The relevant parameters for the downlink C-Plane message are shown in Figure 3.2.5.1-1 below:

The O-DU emulator will build a U-Plane message containing the PN23 IQ data for the first 16 PRBs (RBG 0), this message will have the section ID used in the C-Plane message described above.  Another U-Plane message will be created using the same section ID but with the PN23 data for RBGs 2-17 in it.  The same U-Plane messages will be used for symbol #7.

For the uplink sections and symbols: For this test symbols number 6 and 7 will be used in each slot.  The starting PRB will be zero and number of PRBs will be 48.  The resource block group size will be 16.  Using the calculations in clause 7.7.6 of [2], the ID of the last RBG will be 17, f(0) will be 16, f(n) will be 16 and f(lastRbgID) will be 1.

Every symbol should be described by a single type 1 section (DL-SCH and DCI) except symbols #6 and #7 which will be used for the section extension 6 test. The data in symbol #6 is expected to be a new PN23 sequence starting in the first PRB and continuing to PRB 48 (RBG number 2).  Symbol #7 should be identical to symbol #6.  The symMask value should be set to 00000011000000b.  No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.  If the radio only supports another numerology see the tables above in the downlink sections and symbols for appropriate modifications.  The relevant parameters for the uplink C-Plane message are shown in Figure 3.2.5.1-2 below:

Steps:

Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul Messages

Launch test to play the C-Plane messages and the downlink U-Plane messages and trigger the source to play the RF signal on a frame boundary.

Play messages to the O-RU respecting the timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1.  Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the frame.

Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the Antenna port

Extract IQ information from the captured U-Plane messages

Extract IQ information from the signal analyzer for downlink slots

Extract Payload for both signals

Compare payload binary sequences

Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The signal extracted by the U-Plane messages (uplink) should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received by the signal analyzer should be the same as the signal described above.  If it contains all the same PRB assignments and the correct PN23 sequence as data, the downlink test passes.

The test frame extracted from the uplink U-Plane messages should be the same as the uplink signal described above.  If it contains all the same PRB assignments and the correct PN23 sequence as data, the uplink test passes.

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Static SRS Allocation UL – Resource Allocation

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the O-RU can support static SRS configuration through the M-Plane.  This is an uplink only test so there is no corresponding downlink test for TDD.  The O-RU must report through the M-Plane that it supports static configuration of SRS.

This test will use the standard TDD test frame described in clause 3.2.1.1.  The test will have the CUSM emulator configure the O-RU, through the M-Plane, with a section of time/frequency resources reserved for static uplink SRS, these will be limited to the uplink slots of the TDD frame.  The signal source will be programmed to send simulated SRS signals in a subset of those resources.  The O-RU should receive this SRS signals and pass them through to the CUSM emulator using U-Plane messages.  Note, there will be no C-Plane messages sent from the CUSM emulator and the O-RU.  The signal generator will signal power levels at least 30 dB above Reference Sensitivity power Level described in TS 138.141-1 Table 7.2.5-1.  This is to improve the likelihood that all data will be received by the radio correctly since we are not interested in testing receiver sensitivity but only the O-RAN protocol compliance.  The placement of the time frequency resources is not specified in this test so it may be placed in any uplink slots of the TDD frame.

The TER (Test Equipment, O-RU) generates an uplink SRS signal on the antenna connector or TAB connector. The TER will capture the U-Plane messages generated by the DUT and validate whether the payload matches the uplink signal as well as beam characteristics. The metric used to validate that the signal received by the CUSM emulator matches the signal sent by the signal generator will be EVM as described in Annex H.7 of ETSI TS 138.141.  While some 3GPP test documents (e.g.  ETSI TS 138.521 clause 6.4.2.1.3) suggest treating the EVM requirements for physical Zadoff-Chu sequences such as PRACH the same as QPSK for EVM requirements, this document will decrease the required EVM to the level specified for 64 QAM.  The purpose of this is to ensure that there is no chance of false positives where a random, mistaken signal sent by the O-RU closely mimics the test signal used by the TER.  Since there are no impairments made to the uplink SRS signal this should be well within the capabilities of the O-RU.

Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 of this document.  The O-RU must indicate it supports static SRS allocation. The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth.  It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors. Note this signal may be changed to any of the 3GPP sensitivity test signals in ETSI TS 138.141-1 if the radio does not support the numerology and bandwidth used in this test.  The test signal described in this clause will be used if the radio supports that numerology and bandwidth.

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.  Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna port and configure the source to transmit the required SRS test signal upon receiving a trigger signal from the CUSM-E.  The signal source power level should be adjusted to at least 30 dB above the setting used in the 3GPP receiver sensitivity test.

Implicit in this Initial set up is statically configuring O-RU with a section of time/frequency resources for static SRS signals.

.

Procedure

- Build an SRS signal in the signal generator that fits in the preconfigured time frequency resources set in the initial configuration.
- Load the waveform into the signal source:
Configure signal source to play test waveforms on 10ms frame boundaries starting when it receives a trigger signal from the O-DU emulator that signals the start of a frame boundary.

Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul Messages

Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the Antenna port connected

TER will arrange U-Plane messages according to time and frequency

Start SRS waveform generation on the signal generator. Ensure the test frame is repeated enough times to generate a statistically significant number of SRS occasions. That is at least 10 occasions.

Extract IQ information

Calculate EVM of the SRS signal received by the CUSM emulator to the ideal signal generated by the signal source. Use the method described in  ETSI TS 138.141 Annex H.7 to perform the calculation.

Test Requirement (expected result)

The verdict is “Test pass” if the calculated EVM is less than 8% as median EVM measured over the minimum number of SRS occasions of at least 10 occasions.

If any of the test conditions are not true, the verdict for the whole test is "Fail"

##### UC Plane O-RU Base Class TDD Test UL – Static PRACH allocation

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the O-RU can support static PRACH configuration through the M-Plane.  This is an uplink only test so there is no corresponding downlink test for downlink slots.  The O-RU must report through the M-Plane that it supports static configuration of PRACH.  The concept is to repeat the spirit of test 3.2.3.8.1 (5GNR  PRACH test) without sending any C-Plane type 3 messages and configuring the O-RU using only the M-Plane.

TER will setup the signal generator with a PRACH test waveform according to  ETSI TS 138.141-1 clause 8.4.1 and A.6. The test waveform will contain the same preamble ID repeated by following the timing offset scheme specified in the figures 8.4.1.4.2-2 or 8.4.1.4.2-3  ETSI TS 138.141-1 depending on the selected PRACH format.

This is an example for FR1 – SCS=30 kHz – BW=100MHz – Format A3 configuration index 132 (From Table 6.3.3.2-3, unpaired spectrum), at each occasion the time offset of the same preamble index (selected according to table A.6-1  ETSI TS 138.141.1) is incremented by 100nsec starting from 0 up to 800nsec (9 occasions per frame). Each PRACH occasion is at the beginning of the first nine used sub-frames. The scheme is repeated every frame. The test must be conducted using a PRACH format and configuration index the radio has reported it supports.

According to the PRACH waveform setting, the TER will generate a corresponding sequence of M-Plane messages which include the following parameters (According to the M-Plane specification and the PRACH configuration index supported):

grouping static-prach-configuration

leaf pattern-period - "Period after which static PRACH patterns are repeated. Unit: number of frames."

leaf guard-tone-low-re - "Number of REs occupied by the low guard tones."

leaf num-prach-re - "Number of contiguous PRBs per data section description“

leaf guard-tone-high-re - "Number of REs occupied by the high guard tones.“

leaf sequence-duration - "Duration of single sequence of the PRACH. Sequence may be considered as 'single PRACH symbol’”

list prach-patterns - key prach-pattern-id - "Provides a PRACH pattern. Each record in the list represents a single PRACH occasion. Number of list entries cannot exceed max-prach-patterns“

leaf prach-pattern-id - "Supplementary parameter acting as key for prach-pattern list.“

leaf number-of-repetitions - "This parameter defines number of PRACH repetitions in PRACH occasion, to which the section control is applicable

leaf number-of-occasions - "This parameter informs how many consecutive PRACH occasions is described by the PRACH Pattern”

leaf re-offset – “Offset between the start of the lowest-frequency RE of the lowest frequency PRB and the start of the lowest frequency RE belonging to the PRACH occasion.  The re-offset is configured as number of PRACH REs.

list occasion-parameters – “list of cp-lengths, gp-lengths and beam-ids applicable per each PRACH occasion in PRACH pattern.

NOTE: the number of records in this list MUST be equal to value of parameter number-of-occasions.“

leaf occasion-id - "Supplementary parameter acting as key in 'occasion-parameters' list“

leaf cp-length - "Cyclic prefix length. See CUS-Plane specification for detailed description.“

leaf gp-length - "Guard period length.“

leaf beam-id  - "This parameter defines the beam pattern to be applied to the U-Plane data. beamId = 0 means no beamforming operation will be performed."

leaf frame-number - "This parameter is an index inside the pattern-length, such that PRACH occasion is happening for SFN which fulfills following equation: [SFN mod pattern-length = frame-id]“

leaf sub-frame-id - "Identifier of sub-frame of the PRACH occasion. Value is interpreted in the same way as subframeId field in a section description of a C-Plane message.“

leaf time-offset - "This parameter defines the time-offset from the start of the sub-frame to the start of the first Cyclic Prefix of PRACH pattern"

By the corresponding U-Plane messages in the uplink direction, the TER will try to detect the presence of the corresponding preamble at the expected timing offset and calculate the probability of detection Pd according to the definition in TS38.141-1 clause 8.4.1.1.

The signal will be exercised at only one O-RU port without adding any external AWGN power level or multipath fading profile and at a power level avoiding detection errors due to poor SNR (rule described in the sub-section C of this scenario class).

The test will have the CUSM emulator configure the O-RU, through the M-Plane, with a section of time/frequency resources reserved for static uplink PRACH.  The default is the PRACH configuration described in 3GPP above, but the test may be conducted with changes if the radio does not support those exact configurations.  The signal source will be programmed to send simulated PRACH signals in those resources.  The O-RU should receive this PRACH signal and pass them through to the CUSM emulator using U-Plane messages.  Note, there will be no C-Plane messages sent from the CUSM emulator and the O-RU.

Test Entrance Criteria

O-RU must have a conducted antenna port (FR1) or TAB connector.

By the M-plane or by manufacturer declaration, TER will detect all the supported SCSs, FFT sizes and carrier bandwidths by the O-RU. It is assumed that only one combination of the three above parameters supported by the O-RU is enough to validate the test. TER shall generate M-Plane messages according to one of the PRACH formats in table A.6-1  ETSI TS 138.141. TER will choose the format either according to the manufacturer declaration item D.103 “PRACH format and SCS” in  ETSI TS 138.141-1 or according to the format information obtained by the M-plane in case O-RU implements this feature. If more formats are claimed, only one shall be selected to reduce the test time, preference will be given to a format specified in Table A.6.1  ETSI TS 138.141. It is assumed that the O-RU manufacturer will support at least one in that table. For the case of long preambles, it is assumed format 0 is always supported since this is the only one shown in the table A.6-1  ETSI TS 138.141.

Test Methodology

a: Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.  Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna port and configure the source to transmit the required PRACH test signal upon receiving a trigger signal from the CUSM-E.

Implicit in this Initial set up is statically configuring O-RU with a section of time/frequency resources for static PRACH signals.

b: Procedure

- Set signal generator power by the following method:
Select SNR from the scenario with two RX antennas and AWGN propagation condition in table 8.4.1.5-1, 8.4.1.5-2 or 8.4.1.5-3  ETSI TS 138.141-1 depending on the selected SCS and PRACH format.

Select the AWGN power level according to the configured SCS and channel bandwidth in table 8.4.1.4.2-1  ETSI TS 138.141-1 and 38.141-1and multiply by the PRACH signal bandwidth.

The output power will be given by the formula (SNR+Noise power – 3dB) rounded to the first decimal digit. Extra 3dB are to compensate that SNR and noise power are selected from the two RX ports test case and this test procedure requires only one O-RU port.

For example, for the FR1 – SCS=30 kHz – BW=100MHz – Format A3 SNR is -13.5dB and noise level is -70.1dBm/98.28MHz. signal generator power = -13.5dB -70.1dBm/98.28MHz*(139*30 kHz)-3dB =-19.5dBm.

- Set signal generator frequency offset to the central carrier frequency. PRACH will be mapped over frequency according to msg1-FrequencyStart () parameter equal to 0. PRACH format is set according to what TER has selected from the manufacturer declarations.
- Start PRACH waveform generation on the signal generator.  Ensure the test frame is repeated enough times to generate a statistically significant number of PRACH occasions.  That is at least 10 occasions.
- TER will perform PRACH detection per each PRACH occasion in each frame sent and compare the result with the expected preamble ID and the expected timing offset. Since the external AWGN and fading generator are not present the time error tolerance should be low, TER will use the time error tolerance in table 8.4.1.1-1 for AWGN case according to the corresponding PRACH format and PRACH SCS. A counter of successful detections is incremented at every matching. The probability of detection is given by the ratio between that counter and the number of the expected received PRACH occasions within the test time.
- Repeat the test procedure by setting msg1-FrequencyStart () parameter to the right edge of the configured carrier bandwidth in order to exercise a different frequency offset number
Test Requirement (expected result)

- Test is pass if the probability of detection is 100% determined across the minimum amount of at least 10 occasions.

##### UC Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using section extension 13 for frequency hopping UL/DL – Resource Allocation

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to validate the capability of the O-RU to correctly interpret section extension 13, frequency hopping, for the uplink.  Note, since frequency hopping is only used in uplink in 5G NR this test will be   limited to the uplink slots of the basic TDD signal.

Using the standard TDD test frame described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink and uplink of the specified signal using section extension 13 for the uplink.  The downlink portion of the test is not part of this test and may be any signal or no downlink signal at all.

In this test stock data section definition C will be used to exercise the non-contiguous RB allocation, all 273 PRBs (48 of the 51 in the uplink slots) or the max number of PRBs per symbol for the highest numerology the radio supports will be used in this test.

Only one spatial stream on one antenna will be used.  This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required).

Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 of this document.  The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in clause 3.2.1.1.3.  It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors.

The radio must support section extension 13 as notified by the M-Plane.  The signal analyzer must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel.

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.  Connect the signal analyzer to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.  Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna port and configure it as described below.

Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal as described above in clause 3.2.1.1.3 in the CUSM emulator. In this case use a PN23 sequence for the downlink shared channel.  Build the appropriate test frame (uplink slots) for the signal source. Use the CUSM emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the uplink and downlink signals. Every symbol used in the test should be described by a single section (DL-SCH that are used for the test, DMRS and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.  Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages for downlink slots only. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1.  Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.  It will be the responsibility of the TER’s signal analyzer and source to coordinate downlink and uplink TDD transmissions.  The CUSM Emulator of the TER is responsible for receiving uplink U-Plane messages, extracting IQ and decoding it to bits which can be compared to those sent by the signal source.

For the downlink slots and symbols: Any signal may be used if needed by the TER or no downlink signal may be used.

For the uplink sections and symbols: Load uplink test waveform (G-FR1-A1-5 : SCS130k_51RB) on the RF signal source.  Note this signal should contain a new PN23 sequence as user data in PRBs 0 through 50 for symbol 6 and PRBs 100 through 151 for symbol 7.  This will be copied for all uplink slots. The remainder of the test waveform is as described in 3GPP.  Configure signal source to play test waveforms on 10ms frame boundaries starting when it receives a trigger signal from the O-DU emulator that C-Plane messages have been sent.  Load a C-Plane message on Test Equipment O-RU (TER) – Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane message that describes this uplink signal. This section should have startSymbolId = 6, numPrbc = 51, and section extension 13 attached.  The section extension should have nextSymbolId = 7 and nextStartPrbc = 100.

Steps:

Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul Messages

Launch test to play the C-Plane messages and the downlink U-Plane messages (if needed) and trigger the source to play the RF signal on a frame boundary.

Play messages to the O-RU respecting the timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1.  Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the frame.

Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the Antenna port

Extract IQ information from the captured U-Plane messages

Extract IQ information from the signal analyzer for downlink slots (if needed)

Extract Payload for both signals

Compare payload binary sequences

Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal extracted by the U-Plane messages (uplink) should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The verdict is “Test pass” if the test frame received by the signal analyzer contains two U-Plane messages for this section ID one containing the PN23 sequence for the first 51 PRBs in symbol 6 and PRBs 100 through 151 for symbol #7 containing the PN23 sequence sent by the signal source for those PRBs.

This clause describes the beamforming conformance testing for O-RAN fronthaul interface. The tests do not aim to test the O-RU beamforming performance or capabilities but to test that the O-RU under test focuses the RF energy or sensitivity into a specific direction and with a specific granularity following the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) C-Plane messages.

Unless stated otherwise in a test case, the following statements apply to all the test cases defined in this clause:

It is based on conducted testing with a setup such as described in clause 2.1 and it only applies to O-RU DUTs that have conducted antenna ports or TAB connectors.

It applies to  Category A and  Category B O-RU DUTs.

It applies to LTE and/or 5G New Radio O-RU DUTs.  In both cases, precoding is not required in any test case.

If O-RU DUT supports Analog Beamforming (i.e. time domain beamforming), all the U-Plane test frames are defined by segmenting the Stock Test A: 1 section per symbol.  The definition of this Stock Test A can be found in Figure 3.2.1.1-2 and the description accompanying this figure.  Each slot shall include multiple sections (one per symbol within the slot) and only one beam at a time (i.e. one beamId at a time) and therefore only one beam can be tested per slot.

If O-RU DUT supports Digital Beamforming (i.e. frequency domain beamforming), all the U-Plane test frames are defined by segmenting the Stock Test B: 2 sections per symbol definition as shown in Figure 3.2.1.1-2.  Each slot shall include multiple sections (two per symbol within the slot) and only one beam per section at a time (i.e. one beamId at a time) and therefore up to two different beams can be tested per slot.

If O-RU DUT supports multiple polarizations, it is up to the TER to determine if the testing is carried out for each polarization separately or multiple polarizations at the same time. In any case, it is important to guarantee that the correct eAxC_ID for the correct polarization (or polarizations) is exercised.

For O-RU DUT that support TDD:

- The tests may use any combination of Downlink and Uplink standard 3GPP LTE test frames found in clause 6.1.1.1 of  ETSI TS 136.141-1.
- For example, the following TDD test waveform could be used for this test:
- 20MHz bandwidth with 100 RBs assigned
- Uplink/Downlink Configuration set to 3
- Special Subframe Configuration set to 8
- DwPTS Length set to 11 Symbols
- GP lengths set to 1 Symbol
- UpPTS Length set to 2 Symbols.
- The full test radio frame is shown in Figure 3.2.5.2-1.
If 20MHz is not supported by the O-RU DUT, then it will use the highest bandwidth supported by the O-RU DUT.

For O-RU DUT that support 5G NR:

The tests will use a combination of Downlink and Uplink standard 3GPP 5G NR test frames. See figure .

The Downlink part of the radio frame will use a standard 3GPP NR-FR1-TM1.1 test frame for TDD in [19] (clause 4.9.2 TS138.141-1) of the Conducted Transmitter Characteristic Test (clause 6 TS138.141-1) as described in clause 3.2.1.1. The test numerology will be preferably 30kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth. If not supported, then it will use any other supported subcarrier spacing and the highest bandwidth of the O-RU DUT.

The Uplink part of the radio frame will use a standard 3GPP Reference Sensitivity level definition (clause 7.2 and Annex A TS138.141-1) of the Conducted Receiver Characteristic Test (clause 7  ETSI TS 138.141) and power levels at least 30dB above Reference Sensitivity power level as described in clause 3.2.1.1.  The test numerology will be preferably 30kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth, if supported. Otherwise, it will use any available subcarrier space and the highest bandwidth supported by the O-RU DUT.

The Downlink symbols are allocated at slots 0 to 7 and 10 to 17.

The Uplink symbols are allocated at slots 7 to 9 and 17 to 19.

Note that slots 7 and 17 have symbols allocated for Downlink, symbols 0 to 5, some other symbols assigned as Guard Period where no signal is transmitted or expected to be received, symbols 6 to 9, and finally some other symbols allocated for Uplink, symbols 10 to 13.

The O-RU DUT:

supports the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.1 of this document.

has installed current release of shipping software.

has at least two conducted antenna ports (or TAB connectors) to be connected to a signal analyzer. Likewise, it must have at least two conducted antenna ports or TAB connectors to be connected to a signal generator.

is fully calibrated up to the antenna ports or (TAB connectors) (if needed). It is expected to be calibrated by O-RU vendor prior to testing.

The TER:

is capable of carrying out any signal processing required to generate and demodulate 3GPP compliant waveforms.

is able to calculate or extract beamweights (or magnitude and phase relations) between antenna ports or TAB connectors. Alternatively, and if the O-RU DUT manufacturer provides the list of beam directions supported by the O-RU DUT, TER might calculate or extract the beam direction instead of the beamweights.

is able to generate and deliver signals with the required beamweights (or magnitude and phase relations) at the antenna ports or TAB connectors.

is fully calibrated up to the interfaces where is connected to the O-RU DUT antenna ports (or TAB connectors). For that, a known test signal might be either injected by the TER into the O-RU DUT, or internally generated by the O-RU DUT, and the O-RU DUT must not apply any digital or analog beamweights to the known test signal.  One possible method to perform calibration uses injected C-Plane and U-Plane signals from TER into the O-RU and using C-Plane messages with beamID=0.

The O-DU emulator of the TER:

is capable of generating and sending U-Plane messages containing 3GPP test frames following the corresponding Stock sectioning defined above, as well as be capable of capturing U-Plane messages and extracting 3GPP test frames (i.e. IQ data) from the captured U-Plane messages.

is capable of generating the C-Plane messages for, receiving, extracting and demodulating the 3GPP test frames following the corresponding Stock sectioning defined above.

For DMRS-BF tests, the TER setup modifications are:

RF Signal Generator / System which can be a combination of test equipment, or an integrated one, that provides all the testing capabilities needed:

RF Signal Generator capable of generating wanted signals (3GPP compliant SU-MIMO and MU-MIMO signals).

RF Signal Generator capable of generating Additive white Gaussian Noise and Interference signals. It can be a single device or multiple devices.

Beamformer to apply beam weights to each of the signals under tests

CUSM-Plane emulator with expanded capability:

is able to operate with and without reference Channel Estimation (CE) and Equalization (EQ) over the received signal from DUT (Uplink direction).

NOTE: The definition of the reference algorithms used for Channel Estimation and Equalization in the TER are not specified in the current document,

is capable of measuring and reporting EVM measurements after CE and EQ if receiving unequalized IQ data (when testing O-RU DUT with DMRS-BF-NEQ), or directly from received equalized IQ data (when testing O-RU DUT with DMRS-BF-EQ),

is capable of measuring and reporting BER and/or BLER measurements of the received signal from DUT (Uplink direction) after demapping and decoding,

NOTE: The definition of the reference algorithms used for demapping and decoding in the TER are are not specified in the current document,

is capable of parsing ST9 and ST10 messages to extract SINR and RRM measurements.

The TER might have less testing ports than the O-RU DUT conducted antenna ports (or TAB connectors) if testing is carried out sequentially; or as many antenna ports as the number of conducted antenna ports (or TAB connectors) under test if testing is carried out simultaneously.

It is up to the TER on how to extract the beamweights (or magnitude and phase relation) between the antenna ports or TAB connectors, or the beam direction / properties, in order to match it with the manufacturer’s declaration.

The user payload will be generated as PN23 with a seed of all ones.

It applies to the following O-RAN CUS Specification [2]::

Clause 7.4

Clause 8.3.2

Clause 8.3.3

Clause 12

Annex J

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit a basic 3GPP test frame with no beamforming (beamId=0x000) and with one spatial stream (single eAxC).

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

Manufacturers’ declaration that defines list of magnitude and phase relation (or beamweights) between antenna ports or TAB connectors and/or beam directions with antenna array characteristics when O-RU DUT is operating with no beamforming.

C.	Test Methodology

a.	Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.

Connect the signal analyzer to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the beam under test and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

b.	Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal described above in the O-DU emulator.

Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by either one or two sections (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages.  Section type zero messages will be used to signal Guard Period resources in the test waveform.

Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause3.2.1.1.1.

Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.

Extract either the beamweights, or magnitude and phase relation, or beam direction from the measured signal.

D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received by the signal analyzer should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data.

The signal relation (i.e. beamweights, or magnitude and phase relation) between antenna ports or TAB connectors, or the extracted beam direction, should match the expected relation, or beam direction, for the expected no beamforming within a tolerance defined by the manufacturer.

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can receive a basic 3GPP test frame with no beamforming (beamId=0x000) and with one spatial stream (single eAxC).

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

Manufacturers’ declaration that defines list of magnitude and phase relation (or beamweights) between antenna ports or TAB connectors and/or beam directions with antenna array characteristics when O-RU DUT is operating with no beamforming.

C.	Test Methodology

a.	Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.

Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the beam under test and configure the source with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and generate the test signal.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

b.	Procedure

Build an appropriate test signal described above in the signal source of the TER.

Inject the test signal into the O-RU with the application of an initial set of beamweights, or equivalently magnitude and phase relation, between all the TER ports connected to the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) to emulate the phase and magnitude difference “seen” by the antenna elements under test. For example, initial beamweights could be set to be “all equal” (i.e. no beamforming).

Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by either one or two  sections (UL-SCH) using Section Type 1 messages.

Play the C plane messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. while also triggering the signal source.

Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the DUT, allow it to create and send the U plane messages to the O-DU and for the O-DU to demodulate, decode and extract the payload.

Repeat the previous steps but now in step b apply a different set of beamweights or phase relation between all the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) when injecting the test signal into the O-RU. For example, repeating the process for a number of different beamweights will simulate the reception of the test signal from different beam directions. This allows to determine if the O-RU is really focusing the sensitivity to the correct beam direction.

D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

The test frame received by the TER/O-DU should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data.

The beamweights or magnitude and phase relation at the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) of the test signal that achieves the highest performance (i.e. best EVM, power, SNR, etc.) should match with the manufacturer’s declaration of the phase relation expected for no beamforming.

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit a basic 3GPP test frame with predefined-beams beamforming (beamId≠0x000) and with one spatial stream (single eAxC).

The transmitted beam direction is measured for each indexed beam required in this measurement, see below. The measured transmitted direction is compared to manufacturer-designated direction. Transmitted direction could be defined by the phase relation between the antenna ports or TAB connectors under test, or directly by extracting the beam direction.

Depending on the O-RU beamforming capabilities regarding the ability to generate “coarse”, “fine” and/or “beam groups”, as defined in clause 12.4.2.2 of [2].

The elevation θ and azimuth Φ angles are defined as in [2] clause 10.4.1.1:

The UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Predefined-beam Beamforming conformance test might include multiple test that the O-RU must comply:

“Coarse” beamIds test:

If O-RU supports and reports beamIds that are defined as coarse granularity (coarse beamIds) to the O-DU emulator, the test should include the following beams:

A coarse beam with 0 degrees azimuth (Φ) and elevation (θ) angles.

A coarse beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ).

A coarse beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ).

A coarse beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ).

A coarse beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ).

If the O-RU only supports one azimuth (Φ) or elevation angle (θ), fewer than 5 beam angles will be measured.

“Fine” beamIds test:

If O-RU supports and reports beamIds that are defined as fine granularity (fine beamIds) to the O-DU emulator, the test should include the following beams:

A fine beam with 0 degrees azimuth (Φ) and elevation (θ) angles.

A fine beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ).

A fine beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ).

A fine beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ).

A fine beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ).

If the O-RU only supports one azimuth or elevation angle, fewer than 5 beam angles will be measured.

“beam-group” beamIds test:

If O-RU supports and reports beamIds that belong to same and different beam-groups to the O-DU emulator, the test should include the following beams:

All beams that belong to a beam-group with 0 degrees azimuth (Φ) or elevation (θ) angles.

All beams that belong to a beam-group with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ).

All beams that belong to a beam-group with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ).

All beams that belong to a beam-group with maximum supported elevation angle (θ).

All beams that belong to a beam-group with minimum supported elevation angle (θ).

If the O-RU only supports one azimuth or elevation angle, fewer than 5 beam-groups will be measured.

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

Manufacturers’ defined list of beam indices and their associated magnitude and phase relation between antenna ports or TAB connectors and/or beam directions with antenna array characteristics.

C.	Test Methodology

a.	Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.

Connect the signal analyzer to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the beam under test and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

b.	Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal described above in the O-DU emulator.

Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by either one or two sections (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages.

Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1.

Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.

Extract either the beamweights, or magnitude and phase relation, or beam direction from the measured signal.

D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

- The signal measured by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).
- The test frame received by the signal analyzer should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data.
- The signal relation (i.e. beamweights, or magnitude and phase relation) between antenna ports or TAB connectors, or the extracted beam direction, should match the expected relation, or beam direction, corresponding to the beam under test within a tolerance defined by the manufacturer.
Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL mandatory.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can receive a basic 3GPP test frame with predefined-beams beamforming (beamId≠0x000) and with one spatial stream (single eAxC).

The same description and criteria for selecting the beams to be tested applies as in clause 3.2.3.2.3 applies, but instead it is related to the uplink direction.

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

Manufacturers’ defined list of beam indices and their associated magnitude and phase relation between antenna ports or TAB connectors and/or beam directions with antenna array characteristics.

C.	Test Methodology

a.	Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.

Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the beam under test and configure the source with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and generate the test signal.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

b.	Procedure

Build an appropriate test signal described above in the signal source of the TER.

Inject the test signal into the O-RU with the application of an initial set of beamweights, or equivalently magnitude and phase relation, between all the TER ports connected to the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) to emulate the phase and magnitude difference “seen” by the antenna elements under test. For example, initial beamweights could be set to be “all equal” (i.e. no beamforming).

Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by either one or two  sections (UL-SCH) using Section Type 1 messages.

Play the C plane messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. while also triggering the signal source.

Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the DUT, allow it to create and send the U plane messages to the O-DU and for the O-DU to demodulate, decode and extract the payload.

Repeat the previous steps but now in step b apply a different set of beamweights or phase relation between all the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) when injecting the test signal into the O-RU. For example, repeating the process for a number of different beamweights will simulate the reception of the test signal from different beam directions. This allows to determine if the O-RU is really focusing the sensitivity to the correct beam direction.

D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

The test frame received by the TER/O-DU should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data.

The beamweights or magnitude and phase relation at the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) of the test signal that achieves the highest performance (i.e. best EVM, power, SNR, etc.) should match with the manufacturer’s declaration of the beam under test.

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit a basic 3GPP test frame with weight-based dynamic beamforming with one spatial stream (single eAxC).

The transmitted beam direction is measured for each weighted beam required in this measurement, see below. The measured transmitted direction is compared to manufacturer-designated direction. Transmitted direction could be defined by the phase relation between the antenna ports or TAB connectors under test, or by directly extracting the beam direction.

The elevation θ and azimuth Φ angles are defined in clause 12.4.2.2 of [2].

The UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Weight-based Dynamic Beamforming conformance test should evaluate the following beams for the O-RU to comply:

A weight-based beam with 0 degrees azimuth (Φ) and elevation (θ) angles.

A weight-based beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ).

A weight-based beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ).

A weight-based beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ).

A weight-based beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ).

If the O-RU only supports one azimuth (Φ) or elevation angle (θ), fewer than 5 beam angles will be measured.

The user/tester selects the bitwidth for the mantissa or scaler of the compression method applied to the beams.

The UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Weight—based Dynamic Beamforming conformance test should also evaluate the following compression methods for each of the supported beams described above (a. to e.) for the O-RU to comply:

No compression method applied to the beamforming weights.

Block floating point compression method applied to the beamforming weights with the selected number of bit mantissa.

Block scaling compression method applied to the beamforming weights with the selected number of bit scaler.

μ-law compression method applied to the beamforming weights with the selected number of bit fixed width.

Depending on what type of Beamspace compression the DUT supports, either Beamspace compression method applied to the beamforming weights with the selected number of bit scaler, or Beamspace compression method applied to the beamforming weights with the selected number of bit mantissa.

If the O-RU does not support all the compression methods described above, fewer than 5 compression methods will be measured.

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

Manufacturers’ defined list of frequency domain (ϕ) and or time domain (θ) weights for each supported beam, or alternatively, list of gain and phase relation, or complex beam weights, between antenna ports or TAB connectors for each supported beam . Also, the O-RU needs to report to the O-DU the antenna array characteristics.

C.	Test Methodology

a.	Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.

Connect the signal analyzer to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the beam under test and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

b.	Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal described above in the O-DU emulator.

Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by one or two sections (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages, the sections in the first symbol of the slot will contain section extension extType=0x01 to convey the beam weights, it is not required that the next sections contain extension type 1 since the same beam IDs will not change along the slot. If O-RU does not support a field, then its value should be 0x0.

Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1.

Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.

Extract either the beamweights, or magnitude and phase relation, or beam direction from the measured signal.

D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received by the signal analyzer should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data.

The signal relation (i.e. beamweights, or magnitude and phase relation) between antenna ports or TAB connectors, or the extracted beam direction, should match the expected relation, or beam direction, corresponding to the beam under test within a tolerance defined by the manufacturer.

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can receive a basic 3GPP test frame with weight-based beamforming and with one spatial stream (single eAxC).

The same description and criteria for selecting the beams to be tested applies as in clause 3.2.3.2.5 but applies to the uplink direction.

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

Manufacturers’ defined list of frequency domain (ϕ) and or time domain (θ) weights for each supported beam, or alternatively, list of gain and phase relation, or complex beam weights, between antenna ports or TAB connectors for each supported beam . Also, the O-RU needs to report to the O-DU the antenna array characteristics

C.	Test Methodology

a.	Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.

Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the beam under test and configure the source with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and generate the test signal.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

b.	Procedure

Build an appropriate test signal described above in the signal source of the TER.

Inject the test signal into the O-RU with the application of an initial set of beamweights, or equivalently magnitude and phase relation, between all the TER ports connected to the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) to emulate the phase and magnitude difference “seen” by the antenna elements under test. For example, initial beamweights could be set to be “all equal” (i.e. no beamforming).

Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by one or two sections (UL-SCH) using Section Type 1 messages, the sections in the first symbol of the slot will contain section extension extType=0x01 to convey the beam weights, it is not required that the next sections contain extension type 1 since the same beam IDs will not change along the slot. If O-RU does not support a field, then its value should be 0x0.

Play the C plane messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. while also triggering the signal source.

Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the DUT, allow it to create and send the U plane messages to the O-DU and for the O-DU to demodulate, decode and extract the payload.

Repeat the previous steps but now in step b apply a different set of beamweights or phase relation between all the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) when injecting the test signal into the O-RU. For example, repeating the process for a number of different beamweights will simulate the reception of the test signal from different beam directions. This allows to determine if the O-RU is really focusing the sensitivity to the correct beam direction.

D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

The test frame received by the TER/O-DU should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data.

- The beamweights or magnitude and phase relation at the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) of the test signal that achieves the highest performance (i.e. best EVM, power, SNR, etc.) should match with the manufacturer’s declaration of the beam under test.
Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit a basic 3GPP test frame with attributed-based dynamic beamforming with one spatial stream (single eAxC).

If the O-RU DUT supports Attribute based Dynamic Beamforming, this test is mandatory for the O-RU DUT to be O-RAN conformant.

The transmitted beam direction and attributes are measured for each attributed beam required in this measurement, see below. The measured transmitted direction and attributes, i.e. pointing azimuth and elevation angles, beamwidths and sidelobe suppression, is compared to manufacturer-designated direction and attributes. Transmitted direction and beam attributes are defined by the magnitude and phase relation between the antenna ports or TAB connectors under test, or by directly extracting the beam properties.

The elevation θ and azimuth Φ angles are defined in clause 12.4.2.2 of [2].

The UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Attribute-based Dynamic Beamforming conformance test should evaluate the following beams for the O-RU to comply:

An attribute-based beam with 0 degrees azimuth (Φ) and elevation (θ) angles with any beamwidth and sidelobe suppression supported by the O-RU under this beam direction.

An attribute-based beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ) with the widest beamwidth and lowest sidelobe suppression supported for this specific beam direction.

An attribute-based beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ) with the narrowest beamwidth and highest sidelobe suppression supported for this specific beam direction.

An attribute-based beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ) with the widest beamwidth and lowest sidelobe suppression supported for this specific beam direction.

An attribute-based beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ) with the narrowest beamwidth and highest sidelobe suppression supported for this specific beam direction.

If the O-RU only supports one azimuth (Φ) or elevation angle (θ), fewer than 5 beam angles and attribute configurations will be measured.

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

Manufacturers’ defined list of supported beam directions (azimuth ϕ and elevation θ angles) attributes that are supported by the O-RU and their associated gain and phase relation, or complex weight, between antenna ports or TAB connectors and/or beam directions with antenna array characteristics.

C.	Test Methodology

a.	Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.

Connect the signal analyzer to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the beam under test and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

b.	Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator.

Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by one or two sections (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages, the sections in the first symbol of the slot will contain section extension extType=0x02 to convey the beam weights, it is not required that the next sections contain extension type 2 since the same beam IDs will not change along the slot.  If O-RU does not support a field, then its value should be 0x0.

Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1.

Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.

Extract either the beamweights, or magnitude and phase relation, or beam properties from the measured signal.

D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received by the signal analyzer should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data.

The signal relation (i.e. beamweights, or magnitude and phase relation) between antenna ports or TAB connectors, or the extracted beam properties, should match the expected beam properties corresponding to the beam under test within a tolerance defined by the manufacturer.

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can receive a basic 3GPP test frame with attribute-based beamforming with one spatial stream (single eAxC).

Same description and criteria for selecting the beams to be tested applies as in clause 3.2.3.2.7 but considering uplink direction.

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

Manufacturers’ defined list of supported beam directions (azimuth ϕ and elevation θ angles) attributes that are supported by the O-RU and their associated gain and phase relation, or complex weight, between antenna ports or TAB connectors and/or beam directions with antenna array characteristics

C.	Test Methodology

a.	Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.

Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the beam under test and configure the source with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and generate the test signal.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

b.	Procedure

Build an appropriate test signal described above in the signal source of the TER.

Inject the test signal into the O-RU with the application of an initial set of beamweights, or equivalently magnitude and phase relation, between all the TER ports connected to the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) to emulate the phase and magnitude difference “seen” by the antenna elements under test. For example, initial beamweights could be set to be “all equal” (i.e. no beamforming).

Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by one or two sections (UL-SCH) using Section Type 1 messages, the sections in the first symbol of the slot will contain section extension extType=0x02 to convey the beam weights, it is not required that the next sections contain extension type 2 since the same beam IDs will not change along the slot. If O-RU does not support a field, then its value should be 0x0.

Play the C plane messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. while also triggering the signal source.

Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the DUT, allow it to create and send the U plane messages to the O-DU and for the O-DU to demodulate, decode and extract the payload.

Repeat the previous steps but now in step b apply a different set of beamweights or magnitude and phase relation between all the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) when injecting the test signal into the O-RU. For example, repeating the process for a number of different sets of beamweights will simulate the reception of the test signal from different beam directions. This allows to determine if the O-RU is really focusing the sensitivity to the correct beam properties.

D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

The test frame received by the TER/O-DU should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data.

The beamweights or magnitude and phase relation at the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) of the test signal that achieves the highest performance (i.e. best EVM, power, SNR, etc.) should match with the manufacturer’s declaration of the beam under test.

Test Description and Applicability

This Test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit a basic 3GPP test frame with channel-information-based beamforming with multiple spatial streams from multiple users (i.e. MU-MIMO).

For Category A radios, the test is for each polarization separately and consequently either different or same channel models can be defined for each of the polarization. For Category B, same channel might be used for both polarizations and the test might measure each polarization separately.

The transmitted beam direction is measured for each scenario required in this measurement.  The measured transmitted direction is extracted from the decoded received signal in the TER. Transmitted direction is defined by properly receiving a data transmission between the O-RU and the target User Equipment while destroying or heavily attenuating the data transmission between the O-RU and the other User Equipment.

The UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Channel-Information-based Beamforming conformance test should evaluate the following scenarios for the O-RU to comply and will rely on TER Channel Emulation capabilities as shown in Figure 3.2.5.2-2.

A scenario where two spatial streams, or eAxC flows, are generated for two users (one layer each) with M antenna ports or TAB connectors. The O-DU will report to the O-RU via C plane messages an emulated channel estimate . The emulated channel   shall model a static channel, with rank not lower than the number of spatial streams, and it shall not be a block-diagonal channel. As an example, a Butler channel model could be implemented as emulated channel. The O-RU will calculate and apply the beamweight matrix  in such that the received signal at the users is the same as the generated in the O-DU. It is up to the O-RU on how to calculate the beamforming weights, for example Zero-forcing, regularized zero-forcing / MMSE, etc.

If O-RU supports Analog Beamforming (Time Domain Beamforming), the test should not apply any analog beamforming or time domain beamforming. In this case, M is not the number of antenna ports or TAB connectors but the number of TRX channels supported by the O-RU.

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must have at least two TRX chains with conducted antenna ports (or TAB connectors) to be connected to a signal analyzer.

The TER equipment must either include a channel emulator between the O-RU antenna ports and the signal analyzer or the signal analyzer be capable of applying the required channel matrix being emulated between the O-RU and the users.

Manufacturers’ defined list of number of TRX chains and what antenna ports or TAB connectors are connected to each TRX chain.

C.	Test Methodology

a.	Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.

Connect the signal analyzer to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the scenario under test and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

b.	Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal described above in the O-DU emulator.

Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the scenario under test. Every symbol should be described by either one or two  sections (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 5 and 6 messages.

Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1.

Capture the test signals and pass them through a channel emulator or apply the signal processing required to emulate the channel under test.

Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.

D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received by the signal analyzer should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data.

Test Description and Applicability

This Test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can receive a basic 3GPP test frame with channel-information-based beamforming with multiple spatial streams from multiple users (i.e. MU-MIMO).

Same description and criteria for selecting the beams to be tested applies as in section 3.2.3.2.10 but considering uplink direction.

- Test Entrance Criteria
The O-RU must have at least two TRX chains with conducted antenna ports (or TAB connectors) to be connected to a signal generator.

The TER equipment must either include a channel emulator between the O-RU antenna ports and the signal generator or the signal generator be capable of applying the required channel matrix being emulated between the users and the O-RU.

Manufacturers’ defined list of number of TRX chains and what antenna ports or TAB connectors are connected to each TRX chain.

- Test Methodology
a.	Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.

Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the beam under test and configure the source with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and generate the test signal.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

b.	Procedure

Build an appropriate test signal described above in the signal source of the TER.

Inject the test signals through a channel emulator or apply the required signal processing to emulate the channel under test.

Inject the resulting test signals into the antenna ports (or TAB connectors).

Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by either one or two  sections (UL-SCH) using Section Type 5 and 6.

Play the C plane messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 2.4. while also triggering the signal source.

Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the DUT, allow it to create and send the U plane messages to the O-DU and for the O-DU to demodulate, decode and extract the payload.

- Test Requirement (expected result)
The test frame received by the TER/O-DU should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data.

##### UC- Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – DMRS based Beamforming

Test Description and Applicability

This Test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY, the condition being O-RUs that support either DMRS-EQ or DMRS-NEQ.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can receive a basic 3GPP test frame with Demodulation Reference Signal-based beamforming (DMRS-BF) with multiple spatial streams from multiple users (i.e. MU-MIMO) using Section Extension 24 (SE24).

The UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – DMRS based Beamforming conformance test will rely on TER Beamforming capabilities as shown in Figure 3.2.5.2-3.

As defined in introduction of clause 3.2.5.2 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming, each of the UE layer in Figure 3.2.5.2-3 shall use a standard 3GPP Reference Sensitivity level definition (clause 7.2 and Annex A TS138.141-1) of the Conducted Receiver Characteristic Test (clause 7  ETSI TS 138.141). The power levels shall be at least 30dB above Reference Sensitivity power level as described in clause 3.2.1.1. The test numerology will be preferably 30kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth, if supported. Otherwise, it shall use any available subcarrier space, and the highest bandwidth supported by the O-RU DUT. In addition, the uplink test vector will be generated with UL-SCH in UL slots and allocated to the PRBs 0 to 50 truncated to the carrier bandwidth used for testing.

Note that this test vector is defined for a Single Input Single Output (SISO) scenario. However, for this test, the test vector is expanded to evaluate the test scenario where two spatial streams, or eAxC flows, are scheduled at the same resource allocation for two users (with one layer each) and with M antenna ports or TAB connectors. The CUSM-Plane emulator will signal this test vector configuration using SE24 to the O-RU via C-plane messages the scheduling of the two ueIds, using Section Type 5 and Section Extension 10 with beamGroupType=10b or beamGroupType=11b depending on O-RU capabilities. The CUSM-Plane emulator will signal to the O-RU via C-Plane messages the UE symbol allocation as all fourteen symbols per slot.

This test case does not test allocated IPN measurement (MEAS_IPN_ALLOC =DISABLED), antenna DMRS SNR (andDmrsSnr=0), transform precoding and self assembly. The CUSM-Plane emulator shall assign and schedule the ueIds using any supported number of least significant bits of the ueId to indicate the layers within each user. If an O-RU supports ueId persistence, ueId persistence shall not be used “ueId-persistence-enabled=FALSE”.

The CUSM-Plane emulator will inform the O-RU of the DMRS configurations for the two streams using Section Extension 24 with entryType 1 and 2. The two DMRS configurations are as follows:

|  | UE 0 Layer 0 (DMRS 0) | UE 1 Layer 0 (DMRS 1) |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Ports | 1000 | 1002 |
| scrambling ID (nSCID) | 0 | 1 |
| Scrambling ID 0 () | 2 | 3 |
| Scrambling ID 0 () | 4 | 5 |
| DMRS Power Boosting | 3 dB |  |
| UL DMRS Configuration | Type 1 |  |
| DMRS Duration (maxLength) | len1 (Single Symbol) |  |
| DMRS Additional Position (dmrs-AdditionalPosition) | 1+1 (2) |  |
| UL Mapping Type | A |  |
| l0 | pos2 |  |
| DMRS Uplink Transform Precoding r16 | False |  |
| Transform Precoding | False |  |

Same DMRS signal can be used for all available polarizations. Each polarization might be measured separately.

If O-RU supports any other beamforming, these shall not be exercise and tested. If O-RU supports Analog Beamforming (Time Domain Beamforming), the test should not apply any analog beamforming or time domain beamforming. In this case, M is not the number of antenna ports or TAB connectors but the number of TRX channels supported by the O-RU.

The configuration of DMRS and UE data layers follows configuration in SE 24. For example, there are two layers with two different DMRS configurations to measure in this scenario, two users with one layer each. A succesful received layer is defined as properly receiving data transmission at the O-DU emulator side from a corresponding layer transmitted by a User Equipment. This received data transmission shall be successfully received when it matches the DMRS configuration being signalled to the O-RU.

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU shall have at least two TRX chains with conducted antenna ports (or TAB connectors) to be connected to a signal generator.

The O-RU shall support enough entry tables of DMRS configuration to process the test vector and configuration under test.

The TER equipment shall either include a beamformer between the O-RU antenna ports and the UE signal generator or the signal generator be capable of emulating different AoA for different UE. This AoA should ensure sufficient conditioning / rank of the channel matrix, ensuring that both UE layers can be properly infered by O-RU during channel estimation and equalization.

The TER equipment is responsible for generating the RF signals for each UE layer as described in Section A, the corresponding matching O-RAN fronthaul traffic with Section ST5, SE10 and SE24 and the configuration of the DUT via M-Plane.

Manufacturers’ defined list of number of TRX chains and what antenna ports or TAB connectors are connected to each TRX chain.

C.	Test Methodology

a.	Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.

Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the beam under test and configure the source with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and generate the test signal.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

b.	Procedure

Build an appropriate test signal described in Section A in the signal source of the TER.

Inject the test signals through a beamformer or apply the required signal processing to the layers under test.

Get the resulting test signals ready to be injected into the antenna ports (or TAB connectors).

Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test using Section Type 5 with Section Extension 10 and Section Extension 24.

Play the C-plane messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 2.4. while also triggering the signal source so the signal is injected into the antenna ports (or TAB connectors).

Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the DUT, allow it to create and send the U-plane messages to the O-DU emulator.

Allow for the O-DU emulator to capture the U-Plane messages sent by the O-RU and to run the following measurements on the extracted IQ data for each of the users/layers:

if O-RU implements DMRS-BF-EQ:

EVM of the received equalized IQ data (no channel estimation and equalization is used in TER).

BER or BLER of the received equalized IQ data after layer demapping and decoding in the TER.

NOTE 1: The measured BER or BLER depends on the algorithms implemented in both the O-RU DUT and the O-DU TER.

NOTE 2: The algorithms for demapping and decoding to be used in TER are left for future study.

if O-RU implements DMRS-BF-NEQ:

EVM of the received non-equalized IQ data after the channel estimation and equalization operation in the TER.

NOTE 3: The measured EVM depends on the algorithms implemented in both the O-RU DUT and the O-DU TER.

NOTE 4: The algorithms for channel estimation and equalization to be used in TER are left for future study.

BER or BLER of the received non-equalized IQ data after Channel Estimation, equalization, layer demapping and decoding in the TER.

NOTE 5: The measured BER or BLER depends on the algorithms implemented in both the O-RU DUT and the O-DU TER.

NOTE 6: The algorithms for demapping and decoding to be used in TER are left for future study.

demodulate, decode and extract the payload.

D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

The test frame received by the TER/O-DU emulator for each of the users/layers should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data (payload before channel encoding in the transmission and after channel decoding in the reception).

Report EVM and BER or BLER measured during the test.

Test Description and Applicability

This Test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY, the test condition is O-RU that support either DMRS-EQ or DMRS-NEQ supports SE 25 and at least one symbol reordering method as well.

The Section Extension 25 applies to Section Type 5 with dataDirection bit = 0 and uses with Section Extension 24 which provides DMRS configuration information.

Same description and criteria for selecting the beams to be tested applies as in clause 3.2.5.2.11.A, but considering O-RU supports SE 25 and symbol reordering capability. CUSM-Plane emulator configures symbol reordering method and config-symb-reorder-upSymbId-type based on O-RU capability via M-Plane.

Table 3.2.5.2.12-1: O-RAN symbol reordering related features

| Feature | O-DU support | O-RU support | Additional Information |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Per-window symbol reordering When sending of port reduced DRMS data is enabled | Conditional Mandatory | Condition for O-DU and O-RU: any reordering method is supported. |  |
| Per-window symbol reordering When sending of port reduced DRMS data is disabled | Optional | This is relevant to DMRS-BF. |  |
| Per-section tx-window reassignment | Optional | This is relevant to DMRS-BF. |  |
| U-Plane symbolId interpretation as on-air symbol number for symbol reordering | Optional | This is relevant to DMRS-BF. |  |
| U-Plane symbolId interpretation as transmission window number for symbol reordering | Optional | This is relevant to DMRS-BF. |  |
| SE 25 symbol reordering pattern | Optional |  |  |

The CUSM-Plane emulator will inform the O-RU of the symbol reordering via M-Plane configurations. Depending on O-RU capability of symbol reordering, there are different TER configured choices.

The O-RU capability listed as follows:

Table 3.2.5.2.12-2: O-RAN symbol reordering capability

| O-RU capability | O-RU capability parameters |
| --- | --- |
| supported-symb-reorder-capability | PER-TX-WIN-SYMB-REORDER-WITH-DMRS-SENDING |
| supported-symb-reorder-capability | PER-TX-WIN-SYMB-REORDER-WITHOUT-DMRS-SENDING |
| supported-symb-reorder-capability | PER-SECTION-TX-WINDOW-REASSIGNMENT |
| up-symbolId-type-supported | OVER-AIR-SYMBOL-NUMBER |
| up-symbolId-type-supported | TRANSMISSION-WINDOW-NUMBER |
| max-num-symbol-reordering-pattern-per-slot | uint16 |
| supported-section-extensions | including SE25 |

The TER Possible configuration sets listed as follows:

Table 3.2.5.2.12-3: TER Possible configuration sets

| TER Possible configuration sets | TER configuration parameters |
| --- | --- |
| Configuration Set 1 | PER-TX-WIN-SYMB-REORDERG |
| Configuration Set 1 | OVER-AIR-SYMBOL-NUMBER |
| Configuration Set 1 | port-reduced-dmrs-data-sending-enabled = TRUE |
| Configuration Set 2 | PER-TX-WIN-SYMB-REORDERG |
| Configuration Set 2 | TRANSMISSION-WINDOW-NUMBER |
| Configuration Set 2 | port-reduced-dmrs-data-sending-enabled = TRUE |
| Configuration Set 3 | PER-TX-WIN-SYMB-REORDERG |
| Configuration Set 3 | TRANSMISSION-WINDOW-NUMBER |
| Configuration Set 3 | port-reduced-dmrs-data-sending-enabled = FALSE |
| Configuration Set 4 | PER-SECTION-TX-WINDOW-REASSIGNMENT |
| Configuration Set 4 | OVER-AIR-SYMBOL-NUMBER |
| Configuration Set 4 | port-reduced-dmrs-data-sending-enabled = FALSE |

The CUSM-Plane emulator will inform the O-RU specific symbol reordering configurations using Section Extension 25 as follows:

If TER configured PER-TX-WIN-SYMB-REORDERG (SE25 indicated values corresponding to 14 symbols that are applicable to all layers, U-plane symbolId is interpreted as 'on-air symbol number' or transmission window number based on O-RU capability):

| Extension Type 25 for Section Id=0 and 1 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 0 (msb) | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 (lsb) | # of bytes |  |
| ef | extType = 0x19 | 1 | Octet N |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| extLen = 0x03 | 1 | N+1 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| txWinForOnAirSymbol0 (all layers) = 2 | txWinForOnAirSymbol1 (all layers) = 3 | 1 | N+2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| txWinForOnAirSymbol2 (all layers) = 0 | txWinForOnAirSymbol3 (all layers) = 4 | 1 | N+3 |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| … |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| txWinForOnAirSymbol10 (all layers) = 11 | txWinForOnAirSymbol11 (all layers) = 1 | 1 | N+7 |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| txWinForOnAirSymbol12 (all layers) = 12 | txWinForOnAirSymbol13 (all layers) = 13 | 1 | N+8 |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Zero pad for 4-byte boundary | 3 | N+9 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |

If TER configured PER-SECTION-TX-WINDOW-REASSIGNMENT (SE25 indicated values corresponding to 14 symbols that are applicable separately to each layer, U-plane symbolId is interpreted as 'on-air symbol number'):

| Extension Type 25 for Section Id=0 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 0 (msb) | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 (lsb) | # of bytes |  |
| ef | extType = 0x19 | 1 | Octet N |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| extLen = 0x04 | 1 | N+1 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| txWinForOnAirSymbol0 (1st layer) = 1 | txWinForOnAirSymbol1 (1st layer) = 1 | 1 | N+2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| txWinForOnAirSymbol2 (1st layer) = 0 | txWinForOnAirSymbol3 (1st layer) = 2 | 1 | N+3 |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| … |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| txWinForOnAirSymbol10 (1st layer) = 5 | txWinForOnAirSymbol11 (1st layer) = 0 | 1 | N+7 |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| txWinForOnAirSymbol12 (1st layer) = 6 | txWinForOnAirSymbol13 (1st layer) = 6 | 1 | N+8 |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| txWinForOnAirSymbol0 (2nd layer) = 8 | txWinForOnAirSymbol1 (2nd layer) = 8 | 1 | N+9 |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| txWinForOnAirSymbol2 (2nd layer) = 7 | txWinForOnAirSymbol3 (2nd layer) = 9 | 1 | N+10 |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| … |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| txWinForOnAirSymbol10 (2nd layer) = 12 | txWinForOnAirSymbol11 (2nd layer) = 7 | 1 | N+14 |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| txWinForOnAirSymbol12 (2nd layer) = 13 | txWinForOnAirSymbol13 (2nd layer) = 13 | 1 | N+15 |  |  |  |  |  |  |

This test re-uses the test case description from clause 3.2.5.2.11.A.

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

For the test entrance criteria see clause 3.2.5.2.11.B

C.	Test Methodology

- Initial Conditions
The initial conditions are the same as in see clause 3.2.5.2.11.C.a with the following additions:

Depending on O-RU capability of symbol reordering, there are different TER configured choices (Table 3.2.5.2.12-2: O-RAN symbol reordering capability).

If symb-reorder-method is PER-SECTION-TX-WINDOW-REASSIGNMENT, use OVER-AIR-SYMBOL-NUMBER as up-SymbolId-type according to CUS specification [2].

b.	Procedure

The procedure consists of executing the basic test case defined in clause 3.2.5.2.11.C.b modified by applying configurations described in steps below. The clause 3.2.5.2.11.C.b applies with the following modifications:

- TER shall prepare C-plane message of ST 5 with SE 10, SE 24 and SE 25. The configuration in SE 10, SE 24 and SE 25 shall be compatible with the capabilities reported by the O-RU under test.
Steps:

1.	If the O-RU reports capability for PER-TX-WIN-SYMB-REORDER-WITH-DMRS-SENDING and OVER-AIR-SYMBOL-NUMBER or list including above capabilities (refer to M-plane leaf-list supported-symb-reorder-capability and up-symbolId-type-supported), execute basic test case with other configuration specified in configuration set 1(Table 3.2.5.2.12-3: TER Possible configuration sets).

2.	If the O-RU reports capability for PER-TX-WIN-SYMB-REORDER-WITH-DMRS-SENDING and TRANSMISSION-WINDOW-NUMBER or list including above capabilities (refer to M-plane leaf-list supported-symb-reorder-capability and up-symbolId-type-supported), execute basic test case with other configuration specified in configuration set 2(Table 3.2.5.2.12-3: TER Possible configuration sets).

3.	If the O-RU reports capability for PER-TX-WIN-SYMB-REORDER-WITHOUT-DMRS-SENDING and TRANSMISSION-WINDOW-NUMBER or list including above capabilities (refer to M-plane leaf-list supported-symb-reorder-capability and up-symbolId-type-supported), execute basic test case with other configuration specified in configuration set 3(Table 3.2.5.2.12-3: TER Possible configuration sets).

4.	If the O-RU reports capability for PER-SECTION-TX-WINDOW-REASSIGNMENT and OVER-AIR-SYMBOL-NUMBER or list including above capabilities (refer to M-plane leaf-list supported-symb-reorder-capability and up-symbolId-type-supported), execute basic test case with other configuration specified in configuration set 4 (Table 3.2.5.2.12-3: TER Possible configuration sets).

The execution of the test case will trigger the O-RU to handle symbol-reordering method and report reordered U-Plane data according to SE25, and U-Plane symbolId interpretation will base on TER configuration.

D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

The expected result is as in clause 3.2.5.2.11.D with a separate check of U-Plane symbol order is same as SE25 indicating.

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY with the condition the O-RU supports DMRS-BF-EQ or DMRS-BF-NEQ.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can process SE 24 and process UL signal with DMRS beamforming.

This test case consists of multiple configurations each with defined preconditions. For the description see clause 3.2.5.2.11.A.

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

For the test entrance criteria see clause 3.2.5.2.11.B

C.	Test Methodology

- Initial Conditions
The initial conditions are the same as in see clause 3.2.5.2.11.C.a.

- Procedure
The procedure consists of executing the basic test case defined in clause 3.2.5.2.11.C.b modified by applying various configurations described below. The clause 3.2.5.2.11.C.b applies with the following modifications:

- TER shall check condition defined for each step.
- TER shall build appropriate signal (following UE and UE’s data layer configuration), and C-plane message as specified for given configuration. SE 24 shall be within ST 5 and with SE 10.
TER shall inject signal emulating ideal channel conditions as well as UE and layer spatial separation with power levels at least 30dB higher than the power levels used to test 3GPP.

Steps:

- If the O-RU reports support for SE 24 with entryType = 2 (refer to M-plane leaf-list supported-entry-types), execute basic test case for each configuration specified in configuration set 1.
- If the O-RU reports support for SE 24 with entryType = 3 (refer to M-plane leaf-list supported-entry-types), execute basic test case for each configuration specified in configuration set 2.
- If the O-RU reports support for SE 24 with entryType = 1 and entryType = 2 (refer to M-plane leaf-list supported-entry-types), execute basic test case for each configuration specified in configuration set 3.
- If the O-RU reports support for SE 24 with entryType = 2 and entryType = 3 (refer to M-plane leaf-list supported-entry-types) and multiplexing transform precoding disabled and enabled (refer to M-plane parameter different-transform-precoding-in-user-group-supported = true), execute basic test case for each configuration specified in configuration set 4.
- If the O-RU reports support for persistence of ueId between multiple slots (refer to M-plane feature UEID-PERSISTENCE) and SE 24 with entryType = 2 (refer to M-plane leaf-list supported-entry-types), execute basic test case for the first of parameter values combinations specified in configuration set 1 modified by setting parameter ueIdReset = 1 in the first and every even slot and 0 in other slots in the parameters.
- If the O-RU reports support for ueId persistence over multiple slots (refer to M-plane feature UEID-PERSISTENCE) and SE 24 with entryType = 3 (refer to M-plane leaf-list supported-entry-types), execute basic test case for the first of parameter values combinations specified in configuration set 2 modified by setting parameter ueIdReset = 1 in the first and every even slot and 0 in other slots in the parameters.
- If the O-RU reports support for ueId persistence over multiple slots (refer to M-plane feature UEID-PERSISTENCE) and SE 24 with entryType = 1 and entryType 2 (refer to M-plane leaf-list supported-entry-types), execute basic test case for the configuration specified in configuration set 3 modified by setting parameter ueIdReset = 1 in the first and every even slot and 0 in other slots in the parameters. For slots where ueIdReset = 0 the 2nd entry shall be changed to entryType = 0.
- If the O-RU reports support for ueId persistence over multiple slots (refer to M-plane feature UEID-PERSISTENCE) and SE 24 with entryType = 1 and entryType = 3 (refer to M-plane leaf-list supported-entry-types), execute basic test case for the configuration specified in configuration set 4 modified by setting parameter ueIdReset = 1 in the first and every even slot and 0 in other slots in the parameters. For slots where ueIdReset = 0 the 2nd entry shall be change to entryType = 0.
In principle execution of basic test case in each of the above steps may be performed by TER in parallel provided the O-RU’s and TER have capability for multiplexing of different configurations at different, non-overlapping parts of frequency spectrum.

Configuration Set 1 (entryType 2 - transform precoding disabled):

- 1 UE with 1 data layer with transform precoding disabled and DMRS configuration matching one provided in SE 24
- SE 24 with 1 entry with entryType = 2 and the following parameters:
- ueIdReset = 1
- dmrsSymbolMask = separate configurations for each of values reported as supported by O-RU for transform precoding disabled and other parameters (e.g., dType) fixed to lowest values supported by the O-RU.
- dType = separate configurations for each of values reported as supported by O-RU for transform precoding disabled and other parameters (e.g., dmrsSymbolMask) fixed to lowest values supported by the O-RU.
- dmrsPortNumber, scrambling, nscid, lambda, cdmWithoutData, firstPrb, lastPrb shall have values as per CUS-plane requirements.
Configuration Set 2 (entryType = 3 - transform precoding enabled):

- 1 UE with 1 data layer with transform precoding enabled and DMRS configuration matching one provided in SE 24
- SE 24 with 1 entry with entryType = 3 and the following parameters:
- ueIdReset = 1
- dmrsSymbolMask = separate configuration for each of values reported as supported by O-RU for transform precoding enabled and other parameters (e.g., lowPaprType and hoppingMode) fixed to lowest values supported by the O-RU.
- lowPaprType and hoppingMode = separate configuration for each pair of values reported as supported by O-RU for transform precoding enabled and with other parameters (e.g, dmrsSymbolMask) fixed to lowest values supported by the O-RU.
- dmrsPortNumber, scrambling, nscid, firstPrb, lastPrb shall have values as per CUS-plane requirements.
Configuration Set 3 (entryType = 1 - reuse of configuration from prior entry for transform precoding disabled):

- 1 UE with 2 data layers with transform precoding disabled and DMRS configuration matching one provided in SE 24
- SE 24 with 2 entries:
- 1st entry with entryType = 2 and parameters as in the first of parameter values combinations specified in Configuration Set 1.
- 2nd entry with entryType = 1 and dmrsPortNumber set to the next consecutive value larger than dmrsPortNumber in 1st entry
Configuration Set 4 (mix of transform precoding disabled and enabled):

- 2 UEs with 1 data layer each:
- 1st UE with transform precoding disabled and DMRS configuration matching one provided in 1st entry in SE 24
- 2nd UE with transform precoding enabled and DMRS configuration matching one provided in 2nd entry in SE 24
- SE 24 with 2 entries:
- 1st entry with entryType = 2
- 2nd entry with entryType = 3
- Parameters for both entries shall be within the O-RU reported capabilities and shall be mutually compatible i.e. the same dmrsSymbolMask, dType (given explicitly and implied), cdmWithoutData (given explicitly and implied), etc.
D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

The expected result is as in clause 3.2.5.2.11.D with a separate check of the result for each of the configurations used in this test case.

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class RRM Measurements for DMRS-BF

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY according to Table 10.2-1 section “Measurements” in [2].

The applicability for the different RRM measurements is summarized in table below.

| DMRS-BF Type | Measurements | O-RU Applicability |
| --- | --- | --- |
| DMRS-BF-EQ | MEAS_UE_TAE MEAS_UE_LAYER_POWER MEAS_UE_FREQ_OFFSET MEAS_IPN_ALLOC MEAS_IPN_UNALLOC | MANDATORY |
| DMRS-BF-EQ | MEAS_ANT_DMRS | OPTIONAL |
| DMRS-BF-NEQ | MEAS_UE_TAE | MANDATORY if O-RU does not declare feature DMRS-BF-NEQ_UNALTERED-TAE |
| DMRS-BF-NEQ | MEAS_UE_FREQ_OFFSET | MANDATORY if O-RU does not declare feature DMRS-BF-NEQ_UNALTERED-FREQ-OFFSET |
| DMRS-BF-NEQ | MEAS_UE_LAYER_POWER | MANDATORY for all DMRS-BF-NEQ capable endpoints if any of those supports the RRM measurement. |
| DMRS-BF-NEQ | MEAS_IPN_ALLOC MEAS_IPN_UNALLOC MEAS_ANT_DMRS | OPTIONAL |

The RRM measurements M-Plane capability parameters are: rrm-meas-supported, max-ipn-unalloc-reports-supported, max-ipn-unalloc-symbols-supported, max-ipn-alloc-reports-supported, alloc-ipn-per-dmrs-sym-grp-supported, ta3-min-2g and ta3-max-2g.

The RRM measurements M-Plane configuration parameter is: rrm-meas-enabled.

The purpose of this test is to verify that the O-RU handles the configuration and reporting of RRM measurements according to CUS specification [2]. The purpose is not to verify that the measurements values calculated by O-RU are correct.

This test re-uses the test case description from clause 3.2.5.2.11.A.

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

For the test entrance criteria see clause 3.2.5.2.11.B

C.1.	Test Methodology (UE_TAE, LAYER_POWER, FREQ_OFFSET, ANT_DMRS_SNR)

- Initial Conditions
The initial conditions are the same as in see clause 3.2.5.2.11.C.a with the following additions:

- Depending on which O-RU DMRS-BF type that is tested, different RRM measurements will be supported by the O-RU and enabled by the O-DU. For a description of MEAS_UE_TAE, MEAS_UE_LAYER_POWER, MEAS_UE_FREQ_OFFSET and MEAS_ANT_DMRS see clauses 9.2.2.1, 9.2.2.2, 9.2.2.3 and 9.2.2.6 in CUS Specification [2].
- For a DMRS-BF-EQ O-RU:
- Enable measurements MEAS_UE_TAE, MEAS_UE_LAYER_POWER and MEAS_UE_FREQ_OFFSET via M-Plane.
- Enable MEAS_ANT_DMRS if supported by the O-RU via M-Plane. For MEAS_ANT_DMRS SE24 parameter antDmrsSnr needs to be set to 1 for at least one of the user groups.
- For a DMRS-BF-NEQ O-RU:
- Enable MEAS_UE_TAE, MEAS_UE_LAYER_POWER, MEAS_UE_FREQ_OFFSET and MEAS_ANT_DMRS if supported by the O-RU via M-Plane. For MEAS_ANT_DMRS SE24 parameter antDmrsSnr needs to be set to 1 for at least one of the user groups.
- Procedure
The procedure consists of executing the basic test case defined in clause 3.2.5.2.11.C.b.

The execution of the test case will trigger the O-RU to calculate and report the enabled RRM measurements.

D.1.	Test Requirement (expected result)

The expected result is as in clause 3.2.5.2.11.D with a separate check of:

- The measurements that are enabled are reported to the O-DU.
- For UE_TAE; one value per UE per slot shall be reported.
- For UE_LAYER_POWER; one value per DMRS port per slot shall be reported and power values for all layers of a UE shall be sent in same report, as shown in Table 7.4.12‑3 [2].
- For UE_FREQ_OFFSET; one value per UE per slot shall be reported.
- For ANT_DMRS_SNR; one value per layer per antenna per slot shall be reported.
- The timing of the measurements reports is according to Figure 4.4.3-7 in the CUS Specification [2] Clause 4.4.3.
C.2.	Test Methodology (IPN_ALLOC)

- Initial Conditions
The initial conditions are the same as in see clause 3.2.5.2.11.C.a with the following additions:

- O-RU support for MEAS_IPN_ALLOC depends on both which DMRS-BF type that is tested and on the O-RU's capability. For a description of MEAS_IPN_ALLOC see clause 9.2.2.4 in CUS Specification [2].
- For a DMRS-BF-EQ O-RU:
- Enable measurement MEAS_ IPN_ALLOC via M-Plane on one rx endpoint that supports the measurement, either a DMRS-BF-endpoint, or an endpoint dedicated for IPN measurement.
- For a DMRS-BF-NEQ O-RU:
- If MEAS_IPN_ALLOC is supported by at least one rx endpoint, enable measurement MEAS_ IPN_ALLOC via M-Plane on one rx endpoint that supports the measurement, either a DMRS-BF-endpoint, or an endpoint dedicated for IPN measurement.
- Parameter aIpnPerSym in SE24 shall be set according to the capabilities reported by the O-RU. Each value of aIpnPerSym that is supported by the O-RU shall be tested for at least one user group.
- Procedure
The procedure consists of executing the basic test case defined in clause 3.2.5.2.11.C.b.

The execution of the test case will trigger the O-RU to calculate the IPN for the allocated PRBs and send the report back to O-RU according to the setting of aIpnPerSym etc.

D.2.	Test Requirement (expected result)

The expected result is as in clause 3.2.5.2.11.D with a separate check of:

- The IPN for allocated PRBs are reported to O-DU.
- IPN_ALLOC; one value per PRB, either for one symbol, or as an average over multiple symbols depending on O-RU capability and setting of SE24 parameter aIpnPerSym.
- Verify that symbolMask in report aligns with the request.
- Verify that the eAxC used for the reports corresponds to the rx endpoint that has MEAS_IPN_ALLOC enabled.
- The timing of the measurement reports is according to Figure 4.4.3-7 in the CUS Specification [2] Clause 4.4.3.
C.3.	Test Methodology (IPN_UNALLOC)

- Initial Conditions
The initial conditions for measurement of IPN for unallocated PRBs are different compared to other RRM measurements. The trigger for this measurement is the O-DU sending a Section Type 11 to the O-RU.

- O-RU support for MEAS_IPN_UNALLOC depends on both which DMRS-BF type that is tested and on the O-RU's capability. For a description of MEAS_IPN_UNALLOC see clause 9.2.2.5 in CUS Specification [2].
- For a DMRS-BF-EQ O-RU:
- Enable measurement MEAS_ IPN_UNALLOC via M-Plane on one rx endpoint that supports the measurement.
- For a DMRS-BF-NEQ O-RU:
- If MEAS_IPN_UNALLOC is supported by at least one rx endpoint, enable measurement MEAS_ IPN_ALLOC via M-Plane on one rx endpoint that supports the measurement.
- Procedure
The O-DU requests IPN for unallocated PRBs by sending a Section Type 11 to the O-RU with eAxC set to same as for the rx endpoint that is enabled for IPN_UNALLOC measurements.

D.3.	Test Requirement (expected result)

The expected result is as in clause 3.2.5.2.11.D with a separate check of:

- The IPN for unallocated PRBs are reported to O-DU.
- IPN_UNALLOC; one value per PRB, either for one symbol, or as an average over multiple symbols (controlled via parameter symbolMask in ST11).
- The reports shall follow the ST11 request parameter setting when it comes to symbolMask, possible existence of Section Extensions 6, 12 and/or 20.
- Verify that the eAxC used for the reports corresponds to the same rx endpoint that is used by SE11, which is an endpoint dedicated for IPN measurement .
- The timing of the measurement reports is according to Figure 4.4.3-7 in the CUS Specification [2] Clause 4.4.3.

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using section extension ST9 for DMRS-BF

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY with condition the O-RU supports DMRS-BF-EQ.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the O-RU can process M-plane configuration for SINR and send SINR data in ST 9 messages. For further description see clause 3.2.5.2.11.A.

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

The test entrance criteria is as described in clause 3.2.5.2.11.B with addition:

- The O-RU supports DMRS-BF-EQ.
C.	Test Methodology

- Initial Conditions
The initial conditions are the same as in clause 3.2.5.2.11.C.a.

- Procedure
The procedure consists of executing the basic test case defined in clause 3.2.5.2.11.C.b modified by applying various configurations described below. The clause 3.2.5.2.11.C.b applies with the following modifications:

- TER shall prepare C-plane message of ST 5 with SE 10, SE 24. The configuration in SE 24 shall be compatible with the capabilities reported by the O-RU under test and consist of 1 data layer.
- TER shall build appropriate signal for 1 UEs of rank 1 with DMRS configuration compatible with configuration provided to O-RU in SE 24.
TER shall inject signal emulating ideal channel conditions with power levels at least 30dB higher than the power levels used to test 3GPP.

- The TER shall configure the O-RU via M-plane for DMRS-BF-EQ reception and configure the selected SINR resolution (both sinr-per-prb and sinr-slot-bitmask) to the first of SINR resolutions reported as supported by the O-RU in supported-sinr-resolutions, set sinr-compression to the first element in supported-sinr-compression-methods reported by the O-RU and set sinr-reference-level-config to value of sinr-reference-level-max reported by the O-RU. The TER shall enable SINR reporting by setting sinr-reporting-enabled = true.
Steps:

- The TER shall execute the basic test case observing ST 9 messages sent by the O-RU. The TER shall collect per UE data layer a summary of received SINR including minimum, maximum and average.
D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

The expected result is reception of ST 9 message(s) compliant to the SINR reporting resolution configuration and SINR data format configuration set via M-plane.

In addition, the test report shall include SINR statistics collected by TER (see step C.b.1).

##### UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – DMRS based Beamforming using Frequency offset feedback

Test Description and Applicability

This Test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY, the test condition is O-RU that support either DMRS-EQ or DMRS-NEQ supports SE 26.

The SE 26 is used with Section Type 5 to deliver the UE frequency offset from the O-DU to the O-RU and is valid only when dataDirection bit = 0 and when SE 24 is present and SE 24 precedes SE 26.

The M-Plane configuration parameter is se26-usage-enabled.

TER controls the CUSM-Plane emulator to inform the O-RU specific Frequency offset configurations using Section Extension 26 as follows:

| 0 (msb) | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 (lsb) | # of bytes |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| ef | extType = 0x1A | 1 | Octet N |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| extLen = 0x01 | 1 | N+1 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| reserved | 1 | N+2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| reserved | numFoFb[6:0] = 2 | 1 | N+3 |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| 1st freqOffsetFb = 0x3E8 | 2 | N+4 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| 2nd freqOffsetFb = 0xFC18 | 2 | N+6 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| zero padding to 4-byte boundary | var |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can receive the SE 26 information without generating any errors.  There is no attempt to validate that the O-RU applies the frequency offset correctly because O-RU is not required to use the frequency offset received in SE26.  Specific frequency offset values are required to be included in the SE 26 message, to ensure uniformity of the testing.   Specifically, the values 0x3E8 and 0xFC18 shall be used (see Table 3.2.5.2.16-1), which for SCS = 30 kHz represent positive 500Hz and negative 500Hz.

This test re-uses the test case description from clause 3.2.5.2.11.A.

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

For the test entrance criteria see clause 3.2.5.2.11.B with the following addition:

The TER equipment adds control parameters to turn on the SE 26 frequency offset configuration function (create SE 26 and convey to O-RU).  Note the frequency offset values provided in SE 26 are fixed values under test.

C.	Test Methodology

- Initial Conditions
The initial conditions are the same as in see clause 3.2.5.2.11.C.a with the following addition:

O-RU support SE 26 and M-Plane parameter se26-usage-enabled = TRUE.

b.	Procedure

The procedure consists of executing the basic test case defined in clause 3.2.5.2.11.C.b modified by enabling the SE 26 frequency offset function:

- DU emulator will create C-Plane message including SE 26, the values in SE 26 are frequency offset values configured by TER. DU emulator will convey C-Plane message ST 5 with SE 10, SE 24 and SE 26 to O-RU.
- Inject the test signals with additional frequency offset for each UE.
- Other procedure is same with basic test case defined in clause 3.2.5.2.11.C.b. Records output result EVM and BER or BLER measured during the test.
D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

No fault or error is detected via M-Plane from the O-RU resulting when reception of SE 26.  There is no evaluation of the quality of the received signal (EVM, BLER or BER).

##### UC Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using section extension 27 for DMRS-BF

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY, with condition being O-RU reports support for SE 27.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can process SE 27 and process UL signal with DMRS beamforming.

For further description see clause 3.2.5.2.11.A. This test uses beamforming weight update mechanism of WDBF or predefined beams of PDBF depending on specification provided by the vendor of the O-RU (see also 2nd bullet in 3.2.5.2.17.B).

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

The test entrance criteria is as described in clause 3.2.5.2.11.B with addition:

- The O-RU supports SE 27.
- The vendor of the O-RU provides set of 2 to 4 beams to be used in the test. The beams in the set are defined by documenting beamforming weights to be used. Alternatively, the vendor may provide two sets of beamId values which identify predefined beams supported by the O-RU:
- a set of N values Bn specified in step 3.2.5.2.17.C.b.2 and
- a set of N consecutive values starting with value B specified in step 3.2.5.2.17.C.b.5.
- The vendor of the O-RU provides parameters for positioning 2 UEs of rank 1 to be used for the test. The positioning is to be specified by angle parameters relative to antenna array (see clause 12.5.2 in CUS-plane [2]).
C.	Test Methodology

- Initial Conditions
The initial conditions are the same as in see clause 3.2.5.2.11.C.a.

- Procedure
The procedure consists of executing the basic test case defined in clause 3.2.5.2.11.C.b modified by applying various configurations described in steps below. The clause 3.2.5.2.11.C.b applies with the following modifications:

- TER shall prepare C-plane message of ST 5 with SE 10, SE 24 and SE 27. The configuration in SE 10, SE 24 and SE 27 shall be compatible with the capabilities reported by the O-RU under test.
- TER shall build appropriate signal for 2 UEs of rank 1 with DMRS configuration compatible with configuration provided to O-RU in SE 24.
TER shall inject signal emulating ideal channel conditions with power levels at least 30dB higher than the power levels used to test 3GPP. UE positions shall be as specified by the vendor of the O-RU.

Steps:

- The TER shall select value N such that N is greater or equal the number of beams in the set specified by the O-RU vendor and N is number of beams supported by the O-RU to be commanded via SE 27 (refer to M-plane parameter supported-se-27-num-elements in the list supported-se-27-configurations).
- The TER shall select set of N values Bn where n = 0, 1, …, N-1. The values Bn shall not be consecutive and valid beamId values supported by the O-RU. If the vendor of the O-RU provided beamId values as described in clause 3.2.5.2.17.B then the TER shall use the values Bn provided by the vendor.
- If the vendor of the O-RU provided beamforming weight values described in clause 3.2.5.2.17.B then the TER shall use ST 1 with SE 1 or SE 11 with reMask=0 as described in clause 7.5.3.5 in CUS-plane [2] to associate beamforming weights of the beams specified by the O-RU vendor with beamId = B0, B(N-1), B1, B(N-2), etc. For the remaining Bn values the TER shall associate beamId=Bn with beamforming weights set to 0.
- The TER shall execute the basic test case modified to include in ST 5 also SE 27 with beamType = 0, numElements = N, beamId = B0, B1, …, B(N-1).
- The TER shall select value B such that for n = 0, 1, …, N-1 value B+n is a valid beamId value supported by the O-RU and N is number of beams supported by the O-RU to be commanded via SE 27. If the vendor of the O-RU provided beamId values as described in clause 3.2.5.2.17.B then the TER shall use the value B provided by the vendor.
- If the vendor of the O-RU provided beamforming weight values described in clause 3.2.5.2.17.B then the TER shall use ST 1 with SE 1 or SE 11 with reMask=0 as described in clause 7.5.3.5 in CUS-plane [2] to associate beamforming weights of the beams specified by the O-RU vendor with beamId = B, B+(N-1), B+1, B+(N-2), etc. For the remaining values in range B to B+N-1 the TER shall associate beamId=B+n with beamforming weights set to 0.
- The TER shall execute the basic test case modified to include in ST 5 also SE 27 with beamType = 1, numElements = N, beamId = B.
D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

The expected result is as in clause 3.2.5.2.11.D with a separate check of the result for each execution of the basic test case in the steps 4 and 7 of the procedure described in clause 3.2.5.2.17.C.b.

Validate the correct implementation and interpretation of mandatory and optional IQ data compression formats described in [2]. Also, evaluate the consistency in U-Plane signaling.

It applies to the following O-RAN CUS Specification [2]:

Clause 7.4

Clause 7.5.2.10

Clause 8.3.3.15/16/17

Clause 8.3.2

Clause 8.3.3

Table 10.2-1

Annex A.6

- Annex A.6 Selective RE sending Compression
The objective is primarily to test the protocol, prior to the compression algorithms performance.

Signalling: IQ Compression related fields in UC-Plane messages include:

U-Plane IQ data field

C-Plane udCompHdr (clause 7.5.2.10 of [2])

U-Plane udComphdr (clause 8.3.3.13 of [2])

U-Plane udCompParam (clause 8.3.3.15 of [2])

Modulation compression parameters used in the Section Extension Type =4

csf (constellation shift flag)

modCompScaler (modulation compression scaler value)

Compression: Current specification includes 7 compression modes, including uncompressed mode (fixed point).  Tests should cover each one of these modes

fixed-point

block floating-point

block scaling

mu-law

modulation compression

Block Floating Point + selective RE sending

Modulation Compression + selective RE sending

IQ Bit Width: For fixed-point, block floating point, block scaling and mu-law compression, IQ information can be represented using different bit width (1-16 bits). To optimize test time, tests should be performed on a subset of bit widths

For fixed point, block floation point, block scaling, mu-law compressions the subset of bit widths to be tested are

9 bits

14 bits

For modulation compression bit width 4 is used for the test

A common test methodology and structure will be used across all compression test cases. Each one of the test cases will be defined with specific input parameters and expected output values.

To minimize influence of the Radio’s RF performance to the test results, the test methodology will be based on a relative comparison between modulated signal measurements performed on a TDD test frame with uncompressed IQ (fixed 16 bits) and measurements on the same test frame using compressed IQ. The test will verify that the difference between measurements fits within an acceptable range for the test to pass.

For downlink test, the modulated signal measurement is performed by a signal analyzer on the antenna port of the O-RU.

For uplink measurement, the modulated signal measurement is performed with the IQ extracted from the Uplink U-Plane data sent by the O-RU on the O-RAN interface.

The following paragraphs in this overview clause outline the details of these common test methodologies.

TDD test methodology for compression will combine similar downlink and uplink test patterns used for FDD test. The main difference is that uplink and downlink tests are performed simultaneously for TDD.

The test frames used for compression conformance test will be referred in this document as “NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-DL” TDD Downlink Standard Compression Test frame and “NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-UL” TDD Uplink Standard Compression Test frame. They are 5G NR frames based on the description in clause 3.2.1.1.3 For scenario #3 (Conducted TDD Tests for FR1 Radios) with specific attributes described below.

The Downlink UC-Plane test stimulus file includes the C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink the NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-DL test frame.

The Uplink C-Plane test stimulus file includes the C-Plane messages that require the O-RU to provide the uplink U-Plane messages according to the NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-UL test frame received by the O-RU on its antenna port.

Signalling and IQ information will be based on various compression schemes

| Stimulus File Name | Description |
| --- | --- |
| NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-UNC-16B | Static Downlink Uncompressed (CU-plane) |
| NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-UL-UNC-16B | Static Uplink Uncompressed (C-plane only) |
| NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-FPF-9B | Static Downlink Fixed Point 9 Bits (CU-plane) |
| NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-FPF-14B | Static Downlink Fixed Point 14 Bits (CU-plane) |
| NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-UL-FPF-9B | Static Uplink Fixed Point 9 Bits (C-plane only) |
| NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-UL-FPF-14B | Static Uplink Fixed Point 14 Bits (C-plane only) |
| NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-BFP-9B | Static Downlink Block Floating Point 9 Bits (CU-plane) |
| NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-BFP-14B | Static Downlink Block Floating Point 14 Bits (CU-plane) |
| NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-UL-BFP-9B | Static Uplink Block Floating Point 9 Bits (C-plane only) |
| NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-UL-BFP-14B | Static Uplink Block Floating Point 14 Bits (C-plane only) |
| NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-BSC-9B | Static Downlink Block Scaling 9 Bits (CU-plane) |
| NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-BSC-14B | Static Downlink Block Scaling 14 Bits (CU-plane) |
| NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-UL-BSC-9B | Static Uplink Block Scaling 9 Bits (C-plane only) |
| NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-UL-BSC-14B | Static Uplink Block Scaling 14 Bits (C-plane only) |
| NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-MLW-9B | Static Downlink Mu-Law 9 Bits (CU-plane) |
| NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-MLW-14B | Static Downlink Mu-Law 14 Bits (CU-plane) |
| NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-UL-MLW-9B | Static Uplink Mu-Law 9 Bits (C-plane only) |
| NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-UL-MLW-14B | Static Uplink Mu-Law 14 Bits (C-plane only) |
| NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-MC | Static Downlink Modulation Compression |
| NR-FR1-TDD -CMP-TST -ST-DL-UNC-BRE-16B | Static Downlink Uncompressed (CU-plane) with both empty and allocated RE in the same symbol |
| NR-FR1-TDD -CMP-TST -ST-UL-UNC-BRE-16B | Static Uplink Uncompressed (C-plane only) with both empty and allocated RE in the same symbol |
| NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-BRE-9B | Static Downlink Block Floating Point + Selective RE 9 Bits (CU-plane) |
| NR-FR1- TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-BRE-14B | Static Downlink Block Floating Point + Selective 14 Bits (CU-plane) |
| NR-FR1- TDD-CMP-TST-ST-UL-BRE-9B | Static Uplink Block Floating Point 9 Bits + Selective RE   (C-plane only) |
| NR-FR1- TDD-CMP-TST-ST-UL-BRE-14B | Static Uplink Block Floating Point 14 Bits + Selective RE (C-plane only) |
| NR-FR1- TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-MRE | Static Downlink Modcomp + Selective RE Compression |

| Stimulus File Name | Description |
| --- | --- |
| NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-DL-UNC-16B | Downlink Uncompressed (CU-plane) |
| NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-UL-UNC-16B | Uplink Uncompressed (C-plane) |
| NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-DL-FPF-9B | Downlink Fixed Point 9 Bits (CU-plane) |
| NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-DL-FPF-14B | Downlink Fixed Point 14 Bits (CU-plane) |
| NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-UL-FPF-9B | Uplink Fixed Point 9 Bits (C-plane only) |
| NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-UL-FPF-14B | Uplink Fixed Point 14 Bits (C-plane only) |
| NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-DL-BFP-9B | Downlink Block Floating Point 9 Bits (CU-plane) |
| NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-DL-BFP-14B | Downlink Block Floating Point 14 Bits (CU-plane) |
| NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-UL-BFP-9B | Uplink Block Floating Point 9 Bits (C-plane only) |
| NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-UL-BFP-14B | Uplink Block Floating Point 14 Bits (C-plane only) |
| NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-DL-BSC-9B | Downlink Block Scaling 9 Bits (CU-plane) |
| NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-DL-BSC-14B | Downlink Block Scaling 14 Bits (CU-plane) |
| NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-UL-BSC-9B | Uplink Block Scaling 9 Bits (C-plane only) |
| NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-UL-BSC-14B | Uplink Block Scaling 14 Bits (C-plane only) |
| NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-DL-MLW-9B | Downlink Mu-Law 9 Bits (CU-plane) |
| NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-DL-MLW-14B | Downlink Mu-Law 14 Bits (CU-plane) |
| NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-UL-MLW-9B | Uplink Mu-Law 9 Bits (C-plane only) |
| NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-UL-MLW-14B | Uplink Mu-Law 14 Bits (C-plane only) |
| NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-DL-MC | Non-Static Downlink Modulation Compression |
| NR-FR1-TDD -CMP-TST -NS-DL-UNC-RE-16B | Static Downlink Uncompressed (CU-plane) with both empty and allocated RE in the same symbol |
| NR-FR1-TDD -CMP-TST -NS-UL-UNC-RE-16B | Static Uplink Uncompressed (C-plane only) with both empty and allocated RE in the same symbol |
| NR-FR1-TDD -CMP-TST -NS-DL-BRE-9B | Downlink Block Floating Point + Selective RE 9 Bits  (CU-plane) |
| NR-FR1-TDD -CMP-TST -NS-DL-BRE-14B | Downlink Block Floating Point + Selective RE 14 Bits  (CU-plane) + Selective RE |
| NR-FR1-TDD -CMP-TST -NS-UL-BRE-9B | Uplink Block Floating Point + Selective RE  9 Bits  (C-plane only) |
| NR-FR1-TDD -CMP-TST -NS-UL-BRE-14B | Uplink Block Floating Point + Selective RE 14 Bits  (C-plane only) + Selective RE |
| NR-FR1-TDD -CMP-TST -NS-DL-MRE | Downlink Modcomp + Selective RE Compression |

To ensure that the compressed IQ exponent value is properly tested, each symbol of the test frame will include 3 sections with different power levels.  The Power levels are relative powers to the first group of PRBs transmitted.  Any valid 3GPP power level may be used for the first set of PRBs as long as the power levels of the remaining PRBs are also valid.  Figure 3.2.5.3-1 below shows PRB power relative to the first set of PRBs.

0 dB for the bottom third of total PRBs in the symbol (referred as PDSCH0)

-10 dB for the middle third of total PRBs in the symbol (referred as PDSCH1)

-20 dB for the upper third of total PRBs in the symbol (referred as PDSCH2)

The spectrum representation of the frame shown in Figure 3.2.5.3-1 below highlights the various power levels for each group of PRBS within a symbol.

Figure 3.2.5.3-1 PRB Spectrum Power Visualization

To validate that user data has not been impacted by compression, the test payload for the 3 sections is each based on an  individual PN23 sequence that will be measured and compared by the test apparatus.

To maximise coverage on the compressed IQ mantissa value, the test frame will use the highest possible modulation, limited to 256 QAM modulation for downlink.  An example measurement is show in Table 3.2.5-8.  The data content is a PN23 sequence and the test frame assuming a channel bandwidth of 100 MHz (=273 PRB) is divided into three sections of 91 PRB each. Note that the first section below contains the Coreset in the first 3 PRB according to the 3GPP FRC model.

3 measurements types will be required for downlink tests and 4 measurements will be required for uplink tests.

Power level:  Using the test frames (NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-DL and NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-UL) sent twice with both compressed and uncompressed IQ data, power level measurements are performed to validate compression algorithms influence on Exponent (udCompParam).  The Power level measurements are called: For downlink

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-DL-PDSCH0 in dBm

CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-DL-PDSCH0 in dBm

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-DL-PDSCH1 in dBm

CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-DL-PDSCH1 in dBm

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-DL-PDSCH2 in dBm

CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-DL-PDSCH2 in dBm

For Uplink

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-UL-PUSCH0 in dBm

CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-UL-PUSCH0 in dBm

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-UL-PUSCH1 in dBm

CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-UL-PUSCH1 in dBm

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-UL-PUSCH2 in dBm

CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-UL-PUSCH2 in dBm

For the test to pass, the difference between compressed and uncompressed measurements should be within an acceptable range, called

ACC_PWR_PDSCH0 = ± 1dB

ACC_PWR_PDSCH1 = ± 1dB

ACC_PWR_PDSCH2 = ± 1dB

EVM:  Using a common test frame sent twice with both compressed and uncompressed IQ data, EVM measurements comparisons between uncompressed IQ and compressed IQ will help validate acceptable compression influence on signal quality.

For downlink these 6 EVM measurements required:

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-DL-PDSCH0 in %

CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-DL-PDSCH0  in %

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-DL-PDSCH1  in %

CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-DL-PDSCH1  in %

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-DL-PDSCH2  in %

CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-DL-PDSCH2  in %

For uplink these 6 EVM measurements required:

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-UL-PUSCH0 in %

CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-UL-PUSCH0  in %

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-UL-PUSCH1  in %

CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-UL-PUSCH1  in %

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-UL-PUSCH2  in %

CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-UL-PUSCH2  in %

For the test to pass, the difference between the compressed and uncompressed measurements for the same PDSCH signal must be within the following range:

ACC_EVM_PDSCH0 ≤ 4 percentage points

ACC_EVM_PDSCH1 ≤ 4 percentage points

ACC_EVM_PDSCH2 ≤ 4 percentage points

An example measurement showing both power and EVM is shown below in Figure 3.2.5.3-2.

|  |
| --- |

Figure 3.2.5.3-2 Example Compression EVM Measurement

Payload Data Integrity:  comparing user data between the O-RAN test frame and the RF measurement to validate that compression does not influence user data.  The User data measurements are called:

For Downlink

CMP-Uncompressed-BER-DL-PDSCH0

CMP-Uncompressed-BER-DL-PDSCH1

CMP-Uncompressed-BER-DL-PDSCH2

CMP-Compressed-BER-DL-PDSCH0

CMP-Compressed-BER-DL-PDSCH1

CMP-Compressed-BER-DL-PDSCH2

For Uplink

CMP-Uncompressed-BER-UL-PUSCH0

CMP-Uncompressed-BER-UL-PUSCH1

CMP-Uncompressed-BER-UL-PUSCH2

CMP-Compressed-BER-UL-PUSCH0

CMP-Compressed-BER-UL-PUSCH1

CMP-Compressed-BER-UL-PUSCH2

For the data integrity test to pass, the comparison between stimulus payload and the measured payload should be free of any errors (i.e. BER=0).

Presence/Absence of U-Plane Header measurements (uplink only): to validate that in the U-Plane PRB header, the udCompHeader, “reserved” and udCompParam fields are correctly absent for Static compression mode or present for other compression modes.

Table 3.2.5-9 Measurements Required for Specific Downlink Compression Options below describes the measurements required for each compression option.

| Downlink | Power Level | EVM | Data Integrity |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Uncompressed IQ (fixed 16 bits) | Perform power measurements on the 3 groups of PRBs to create 3 power reference points | Perform EVM measurements on the 3 groups of PRBs to create 3 EVM reference points | N/A |
| Fixed point (< 16 bits fixed IQ) | Perform the test using same test waveforms in compressed mode and check if 3 power measurements are within acceptable range | Perform the test using same test waveforms in compressed mode and check if 3 EVM measurements are within acceptable range | If power level and EVM OK, then verify user data integrity with BER measurement on payload |
| Block floating point | Perform the test using same test waveforms in compressed mode and check if 3 power measurements are within acceptable range | Perform the test using same test waveforms in compressed mode and check if 3 EVM measurements are within acceptable range | If power level and EVM OK, then verify user data integrity with BER measurement on payload |
| Block scaling | Same as above |  |  |
| Mu Law | Same as above |  |  |
| Block floating point + Selective RE | Same as above |  |  |
| Block scaling +  Selective RE | Same as above |  |  |

As the same methodology is used across the different compression modes, the conformance test can be viewed as series of instances of the same test structure with different parameter values as shown below in Table 3.2.5-10 Compression Test Reference Table.

| Test name | DL/UL | Compression | IQ Width |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| TDD UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario - Static Format (SF) |  |  |  |
| TDD UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Static Format (SF) Fixed-Point (FPF) | DL | Fixed point | 9 bits  14 bits |
| TDD UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Static Format (SF) Fixed-Point (FPF) | UL | Fixed Point | 9 bits  14 bits |
| TDD UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Static Format (SF) Block Floating Point (BFP) | DL | Block Floating point | 9 bits  14 bits |
| TDD UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Static Format (SF) Block Floating Point (BFP) | UL | Block Floating point | 9 bits  14 bits |
| TDD UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Static Format (SF) Block Scaling (BSC) | DL | Block Scaling | 9 bits  14 bits |
| TDD UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Static Format (SF) Block Scaling (BSC) | UL | Block Scaling | 9 bits  4 bits |
| TDD UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Static Format (SF) Mu-Law (MLW) | DL | Mu-Law | 9 bits  14 bits |
| TDD UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Static Format (SF) Mu-Law (MLW) | UL | Mu-Law | 9 bits  14 bits |
| TDD UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Static (SF) Block Floating Point + Selective RE (BRE) | DL | Block Floating point + Selective RE | 9 bits  14 bits |
| TDD UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Static (SF) Block Floating Point + Selective RE (BRE) | UL | Block Floating point + Selective RE | 9 bits  14 bits |
| TDD UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Static (SF) mod-compr Format + Selective RE (MRE) | DL | Modulation Compression + Selective RE | 4-bits |
| UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario - Non-Static Format Test (NS) |  |  |  |
| TDD UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Non-Static (NS) Fixed-Point (FPF) | DL | Fixed point | 9 bits  14 bits |
| TDD UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Non-Static (NS) Fixed-Point (FPF) | UL | Fixed Point | 9 bits  14 bits |
| TDD UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Non-Static (NS) Block Floating Point (BFP) | DL | Block Floating point | 9 bits  14 bits |
| TDD UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Non-Static (NS) Block Floating Point (BFP) | UL | Block Floating point | 9 bits  14 bits |
| TDD UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Non-Static (NS) Block Scaling (BSC) | DL | Block Scaling | 9 bits  14 bits |
| TDD UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Non-Static (NS) Block Scaling (BSC) | UL | Block Scaling | 9 bits  4 bits |
| TDD UC-Plane O-DU CMP Scenario Non-Static (NS)  Mu-Law (MLW) | DL | Mu-Law | 9 bits  14 bits |
| TDD UC-Plane O-DU CMP Scenario Non-Static (NS)  Mu-Law (MLW) | UL | Mu-Law | 9 bits  14 bits |
| TDD UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Non-Static (NS) Modulation Compressed Format | DL | Modulation Compression | 4-bits |
| TDD UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Non-Static (NS) Block Floating Point + Selective RE (BRE) | DL | Block Floating point + Selective RE | 9 bits  14 bits |
| TDD UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Non-Static (NS) Block Floating Point + Selective RE (BRE) | UL | Block Floating point + Selective RE | 9 bits  14 bits |
| TDD UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Non-Static (NS) mod-compr Format + Selective RE (MRE) | DL | Modulation Compression + Selective RE | 4-bits |

In general, for each specific Compression Test in this conformance test document, the test will pass if the following conditions are met:

Power measurement differences between Uncompressed and Compressed are within acceptable range

EVM measurement difference between Uncompressed and Compressed are within acceptable range

Data integrity measurements show no data corruption

Uplink U-Plane Header measurements exclude fields for static compression

These test criteria and expected results are summarized below in Table 3.2.5-11 Compression Test Acceptance Threshold Criteria.

| Test name | Test Attributes | Acceptance Threshold Criteria |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Test name | DL UL | Compression | IQ Width | Power difference | EVM difference | BER |
| TDD UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Fixed-Point Format (FPF) | DL | Fixed point | 9 bits | ACC_PWR_PDSCH0 = ACC_PWR_PDSCH1 = ACC_PWR_PDSCH2 = +/- 1 dB | ACC_EVM_PDSCH0 = ACC_EVM_PDSCH1 = ACC_EVM_PDSCH2 ≤ 4 percentage points | BER = 0 |
| TDD UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Fixed-Point Format (FPF) | DL | Fixed point | 14 bits | Same as above | BER = 0 |  |
| TDD UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Fixed-Point Format (FPF) | UL | Fixed Point | 9 bits | Same as above | BER = 0 |  |
| TDD UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Fixed-Point Format (FPF) | UL | Fixed Point | 14 bits | Same as above | BER = 0 |  |
| TDD UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Block Floating Point Compression (BFP) | DL | Block Floating point | 9 bits | Same as above | BER = 0 |  |
| TDD UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Block Floating Point Compression (BFP) | DL | Block Floating point | 14 bits | Same as above | BER = 0 |  |
| TDD UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Block Floating Point Compression (BFP) | UL | Block Floating point | 9 bits | Same as above | BER = 0 |  |
| TDD UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Block Floating Point Compression (BFP) | UL | Block Floating point | 14 bits | Same as above | BER = 0 |  |
| TDD UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Block Scaling Compression (BSC) | DL | Block Scaling | 9 bits | Same as above | BER = 0 |  |
| TDD UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Block Scaling Compression (BSC) | DL | Block Scaling | 14 bits | Same as above | BER = 0 |  |
| TDD UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Block Scaling Compression (BSC) | UL | Block Scaling | 9 bits | Same as above | BER = 0 |  |
| TDD UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Block Scaling Compression (BSC) | UL | Block Scaling | 4 bits | Same as above | BER = 0 |  |
| TDD UC-Plane O-DU CMP Scenario Mu-Law Compression (MLW) | DL | Mu-Law | 9 bits | Same as above | BER = 0 |  |
| TDD UC-Plane O-DU CMP Scenario Mu-Law Compression (MLW) | DL | Mu-Law | 14 bits | Same as above | BER = 0 |  |
| TDD UC-Plane O-DU CMP Scenario Mu-Law Compression (MLW) | UL | Mu-Law | 9 bits | Same as above | BER = 0 |  |
| TDD UC-Plane O-DU CMP Scenario Mu-Law Compression (MLW) | UL | Mu-Law | 14 bits | Same as above | BER = 0 |  |
| UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Modulation Compressed Format | DL | Modulation Compression | 4-bits |  | BER = 0 |  |
| TDD UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Block Floating Point Compression  + Selective RE (BRE) | DL | Block Floating point + Selective RE | 9 bits | Same as above | BER =0 |  |
| TDD UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Block Floating Point Compression  + Selective RE (BRE) | DL | Block Floating point + Selective RE | 14 bits | Same as above | BER =0 |  |
| TDD UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Block Floating Point Compression  + Selective RE (BRE) | UL | Block Floating point + Selective RE | 9 bits | Same as above | BER =0 |  |
| TDD UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Block Floating Point Compression  + Selective RE (BRE) | UL | Block Floating point + Selective RE | 14 bits | Same as above | BER =0 |  |
| TDD UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Modulation Compressed + Selective RE Format | DL | Modulation Compression + Selective RE | 4-bits | Same as above | BER =0 |  |

##### TDD UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) Fixed-Point (FP)

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONALMANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format.

The purpose of this test is to:

Validate correct encoding of IQ data under the following conditions.

RU Static compression configurations

Fixed point IQ data format

Selection of 2 supported bit width: 9 bits, 14 bits

Uplink / downlink

Validate that in the U-Plane PRB header, the udCompHeader, “reserved” and udCompParam fields are not present

Test Entrance Criteria

The test uses the setup and methodology described in clause 3.2.5.3.1.

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

The O-RU is started

Fronthaul Ethernet interface configured for communication between TER and the DUT.

O-RU synchronized with TER using S-Plane

Communication established between TER and the DUT such that it is possible to exchange U-Plane and C-Plane messages

signal analyzer connected to DUT’s antenna port and setup according to DUT RF output configuration

signal source connected to DUT’s antenna port and setup according to DUT RF input configuration

Procedure

For each supported bit width (9 bits, 14 bits), the following tests need to be performed:

Launch Uncompressed Test

Via the M-Plane or another suitable mechanism, put the O-RU into a static configuration with the downlink and uplink configured as follows: no compression, (16 bits)

Arm signal analyzers and signal source

Arm signal analyzer to capture the next Frame

Arm signal source to generate the Frame NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-UL

Arm the CUSM emulator to send the TDD O-RAN test frame, including

Downlink: CU-plane of “uncompressed” NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-UNC-16B test stimulus file to the DUT

Uplink: C-plane of “uncompressed” NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-UL-UNC-16B test stimulus file to the DUT

ARM CUSM-E to capture the Uplink U-Plane Data from the DUT

Launch the test until:

RF signal analyzer has captured the downlink frame

CUSM-E has captured the uplink U_plane data

Uncompressed Downlink Measurements

With the RF signal analyzer, perform the 3 power measurements

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-DL-PDSCH0 in dBm

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-DL-PDSCH1 in dBm

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-DL PDSCH2 in dBm

With the RF signal analyzer, perform the 3 EVM measurements

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-DL-PDSCH0 in %

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-DL-PDSCH1 in %

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-DL-PDSCH2 in %

With the RF signal analyzer, check Data integrity measurements

CMP-Uncompressed-BER-DL-PDSCH0

CMP-Uncompressed-BER-DL-PDSCH1

CMP-Uncompressed-BER-DL-PDSCH2

Uncompressed Uplink Measurements

Extract IQ information from Capture U-Plane trace of the CUSM-E

Using the signal analyzer software, perform the 3 power measurements

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-UL-PDSCH0 in dBm

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-UL-PDSCH1 in dBm

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-UL-PDSCH2 in dB

Using the signal analyzer software, perform the 3 EVM measurements

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-UL-PDSCH0 in %

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-UL-PDSCH1 in %

CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-UL-PDSCH2 in %

Using the signal analyzer software, perform Data integrity measurements

CMP-Uncompressed-BER-UL-PDSCH0

CMP-Uncompressed-BER-UL-PDSCH1

CMP-Uncompressed-BER-UL-PDSCH2

Launch “compressed” Test

Via the M-Plane or another suitable mechanism, put the O-RU into a static configuration with the downlink and uplink configured as follows: Fixed point, 9-bit (then 14 bits)

Arm signal analyzers and signal sources

Arm signal analyzer to capture the next Frame

Arm signal source to generate the Frame NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-UL

Arm the CUSM emulator to send the TDD O-RAN test frame, including

Downlink: CU-plane of the “Compressed” NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-FPF-9B (then 14B) test stimulus file to the DUT

Uplink: CU-plane of the “Compressed” NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-UL-FPF-9B (then 14B) test stimulus file to the DUT

ARM CUSM-E to capture the Uplink U-Plane Data from the DUT

Launch the test until:

RF signal analyzer has captured the downlink frame

CUSM-E has captured the uplink U_plane data

Compressed Downlink Measurements

With the signal analyzer, perform the 3 power measurements

CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-DL-PDSCH0 in dBm

CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-DL-PDSCH1 in dBm

CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-DL-PDSCH2 in dBm

With the signal analyzer, perform the 3 EVM measurements

CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-DL-PDSCH0 in %

CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-DL-PDSCH1 in %

CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-DL-PDSCH2 in %

With the signal analyzer, check Data integrity measurements

CMP-Compressed-BER-DL-PDSCH0

CMP-Compressed-BER-DL-PDSCH1

CMP-Compressed-BER-DL-PDSCH2

Validate Downlink conformance conditions

Power measurements within acceptable range

Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-DL-PDSCH0 and CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-DL-PDSCH0 is within ACC_PWR_PDSCH0 range

Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-DL-PDSCH1 and CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-DL-PDSCH1 is within ACC_PWR_PDSCH1 range

Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-DL-PDSCH2 and CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-DL-PDSCH2 is within ACC_PWR_PDSCH2 range

EVM measurements within acceptable range

Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-DL-PDSCH0 and CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-DL-PDSCH0 is less than ACC_EVM_PDSCH0

Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-DL-PDSCH1 and CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-DL-PDSCH1 is less than ACC_EVM_PDSCH1

Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-DL-PDSCH2 and CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-DL-PDSCH2 is less than ACC_EVM_PDSCH2

BER Measurements show no errors

CMP-Uncompressed-BER-DL-PDSCH0 =0

CMP-Uncompressed-BER-DL-PDSCH1 =0

CMP-Uncompressed-BER-DL-PDSCH2 =0

CMP-Compressed-BER-DL-PDSCH0 =0

CMP-Compressed-BER-DL-PDSCH1 =0

CMP-Compressed-BER-DL-PDSCH2 =0

Compressed Uplink Measurements

Extract IQ information from Capture U-Plane trace

Using the signal analyzer software, perform the 3 power measurements

CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-UL-PDSCH0 in dBm

CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-UL-PDSCH1 in dBm

CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-UL-PDSCH2 in dBm

Using the signal analyzer software, perform the 3 EVM measurements

CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-UL-PDSCH0 in %

CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-UL-PDSCH1 in %

CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-UL-PDSCH2 in %

Using the signal analyzer software, check Data integrity measurements

CMP-Compressed-BER-UL-PDSCH0

CMP-Compressed-BER-UL-PDSCH1

CMP-Compressed-BER-UL-PDSCH2

Validate Uplink conformance conditions

Validate correct U-Plane PRB header structure

U-Plane udComphdr (clause 8.3.3.13 of [2])

U-Plane udCompParam (clause 8.3.3.15 of [2])

Validate that the power measurements within acceptable range

Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-UL-PDSCH0 and CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-UL-PDSCH0 is within ACC_PWR_PDSCH0 range

Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-UL-PDSCH1 and CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-UL_PDSCH1 is within ACC_PWR_PDSCH1 range

Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-UL-PDSCH2 and CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-UL PDSCH2 is within ACC_PWR_PDSCH2 range

Validate EVM measurements within acceptable range

Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-UL-PDSCH0 and CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-UL-PDSCH0 is less than ACC_EVM_PDSCH0

Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-UL-PDSCH1 and CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-UL-PDSCH1 is less than ACC_EVM_PDSCH1

Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-UL-PDSCH2 and CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-UL-PDSCH2 is less than ACC_EVM_PDSCH2

Validate that the BER Measurements show no errors

CMP-Uncompressed-BER-UL-PDSCH0 = 0

CMP-Uncompressed-BER-UL-PDSCH1 = 0

CMP-Uncompressed-BER-UL-PDSCH2 = 0

CMP-Compressed-BER-UL-PDSCH0 = 0

CMP-Compressed-BER-UL-PDSCH1 = 0

CMP-Compressed-BER-UL-PDSCH2 = 0

Test Requirement (expected result)

All validation steps above are within expected ranges or correctly match the expected outcome.

##### TDD UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) Block Floating Point (BFP)

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONALMANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format.

This static format test scenario for Block Floating Point Format will verify DL and UL correct encoding of IQ information for 2 supported bit widths: 9 bits or 14 bits.

Test Entrance Criteria

Same as 3.2.5.3.2 for Block floating point formats.

Test Methodology

Same as  with Static Block Floating Point test patterns

NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-BFP-9B

NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-BFP-14B

NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-UL-BFP-9B

NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-UL-BFP-14B

Via the M-Plane or another suitable mechanism, put the O-RU into a static configuration with the downlink and uplink configured as follows: Block floating Point, 9-bit (then 14 bits)

Test Requirement (expected result)

Same as 3.2.5.3.2.

##### TDD UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) Block Scaling

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format.

This static format test scenario for Block Scaling Format will verify DL and UL correct encoding of IQ information for 2 supported bit widths: 9 bits or 14 bits.

Test Entrance Criteria

Same as 3.2.5.3.2 for Block Scaling point formats.

Test Methodology

Same as 3.2.5.3.2 with Static Block Floating Point test patterns

NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-BSC-9B

NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-BSC-14B

NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-UL-BSC-9B

NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-UL-BSC-14B

Via the M-Plane or another suitable mechanism, put the O-RU into a static configuration with the downlink and uplink configured as follows: Block Scaling, 9-bit (then 14 bits)

Test Requirement (expected result)

Same as 3.2.5.3.2.

TDD UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) Mu-Law (MLW)

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONALMANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format.

This static format test scenario for Mu-Law Format will verify DL and UL correct encoding of IQ information for 2 supported bit widths: 9 bits or 14 bits.

Test Entrance Criteria

Same as 3.2.5.3.2 for Mu-Law formats.

Test Methodology

Same as 3.2.5.3.2 with Static Mu-Law test patterns

NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-MLW-9B

NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-MLW-14B

NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-UL-MLW-9B

NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-UL-MLW-14B

Via the M-Plane or another suitable mechanism, put the O-RU into a static configuration with the downlink and uplink configured as follows: Mu-Law, 9-bit (then 14 bits)

Test Requirement (expected result)

Same as 3.2.5.3.2.

##### TDD UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) Modulation-Compressed Format

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONALMANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format.

This modulation compression format scenario is a static format scenario, based on 3.2.5.3.2 with some important differences

- The purpose is to validate Radio Unit’s correct interpretation of the Modulation compression parameters used in the Section Extension Type =4 and/or Section Extension Type 5, based on the radio support.
If the O-RU only supports section extension 4 on a given endpoint, then:

- Section extension 4 shall be used for all symbols containing PDSCH REs and for symbols containing both PDSCH and DMRS REs.
If the O-RU only supports section extension 5 on a given endpoint, then:

- Section extension 5 shall be used for all symbols containing PDSCH REs and for symbols containing both PDSCH and DMRS REs.
- If the radio supports 4 and 5 on a given endpoint, then
- Section extension 4 shall be used for symbols containing only PDSCH REs .
- Section extensions 5 shall be used for symbols containing DMRS + PDSCH REs.
The test will only verify DL correct encoding of IQ information, as the Modulation Compression model is not applicable for uplink

As the Modulation Compression model does not require IQ bit width to be setup, there is no need to run multiple compression tests for various IQ bit width.

The CUSM_E must generate:

| Stimulus File Name | Description |
| --- | --- |
| NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-UNC-16B | Static Downlink Uncompressed (CU-plane) |
| NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-MC | Static Downlink Modulation Compression |

Test Entrance Criteria

Same as 3.2.5.3.2.

Test Methodology

Same as 3.2.5.3.2 with Static Modulation Compression test patterns

NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-MC

Via the M-Plane or another suitable mechanism, put the O-RU into a static configuration with the downlink configured as follow: Modulation Compression

Validation only of the downlink measurements

Test Requirement (expected result)

All validation steps above are within expected ranges or correctly match the expected outcome.

##### TDD UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static (NS) Fixed-Point (FPF)

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONALMANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format.

This Fixed-Point Format scenario is a non-static format scenario that will verify DL and UL correct encoding of IQ information for 2 supported bit widths: 9 bits or 14 bits.

Test Entrance Criteria

Same as 3.2.5.3.2.

Test Methodology

Same as 3.2.5.3.23.2.3.3.2 with Non-Static Uncompressed test patterns.

NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-DL-UNC-16B

NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-UL-UNC-16B

Same as 3.2.3.3.2 with Non-Static Fixed-Point (FPF) test patterns.

NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-DL-FPF-9B

NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-DL-FPF-14B

NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-UL-FPF-9B

NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-UL-FPF-14B

Via the M-Plane or another suitable mechanism, put the O-RU into a non-static configuration with the downlink and uplink configured as follows: Fixed Point, 9-bit (then 14 bits)

Test Requirement (expected result)

All validation steps above are within expected ranges or correctly match the expected outcome.

##### TDD UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static (NS) Block Floating Point

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONALMANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format

This Block Floating-Point Format scenario is a non-static format scenario that will verify DL and UL correct encoding of IQ information for 2 supported bit widths: 9 bits or 14 bits.

Test Entrance Criteria

Same as 3.2.5.3.7 for Block floating point formats.

Test Methodology

Same as 3.2.5.3.7 with Non-Static Uncompressed test patterns.

NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-DL-UNC-16B

NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-UL-UNC-16B

Same as 3.2.5.3.7 with Non-Static Fixed-Point (FPF) test patterns.

NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-DL-BFP-9B

NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-DL-BFP-14B

NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-UL-BFP-9B

NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-UL-BFP-14B

Via the M-Plane or another suitable mechanism, put the O-RU into a non-static configuration with the downlink and uplink configured as follows: Block Floating Point, 9-bit (then 14 bits)

Test Requirement (expected result)

- Same as 3.2.5.3.7.

##### TDD UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static (NS) Block Scaling (BSC)

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONALMANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format.

This Block Scaling Format scenario is a dynamic-format scenario that will verify DL and UL correct encoding of IQ information for 2 supported bit widths: 9 bits or 14 bits.

Test Entrance Criteria

Same as 3.2.5.3.7 for Block Scaling formats.

Test Methodology

Same as 3.2.5.3.7 with Non-Static Uncompressed test patterns.

NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-DL-UNC-16B

NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-UL-UNC-16B

Same as 3.2.5.3.7 with Non-Static Fixed-Point (FPF) test patterns.

NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-DL-BSC-9B

NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-DL-BSC-14B

NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-UL-BSC-9B

NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-UL-BSC-14B

Via the M-Plane or another suitable mechanism, put the O-RU into a non-static configuration with the downlink and uplink configured as follows: Block Scaling, 9-bit (then 14 bits)

Test Requirement (expected result)

Same as 3.2.5.3.7.

##### TDD UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static (NS) Mu-Law (MLW)

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONALMANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format.

This Mu-Law Format scenario is a dynamic-format scenario that will verify DL and UL correct encoding of IQ information for 2 supported bit widths: 9 bits or 14 bits.

Test Entrance Criteria

Same as 3.2.5.3.7 for Mu-Law formats.

Test Methodology

Same as 3.2.5.3.7 with Non-Static Uncompressed test patterns.

NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-DL-UNC-16B

NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-UL-UNC-16B

Same as 3.2.5.3.7 with Non-Static Fixed-Point (FPF) test patterns.

NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-DL-MLW-9B

NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-DL-MLW-14B

NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-UL-MLW-9B

NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-UL-MLW-14B

Via the M-Plane or another suitable mechanism, put the O-RU into a non-static configuration with the downlink and uplink configured as follows: Mu Law, 9-bit (then 14 bits)

Test Requirement (expected result)

Same as 3.2.5.3.7.

##### TDD UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static Format (NS) Modulation-Compressed Format

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONALMANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format.

This modulation compression format scenario is a non-static format scenario, based on 3.2.4.3.2 with some important differences

- The purpose is to validate Radio Unit’s correct interpretation of the Modulation compression parameters used in the Section Extension Type =4 and/or Section Extension Type 5, based on the radio support.
If the O-RU only supports section extension 4 on a given endpoint, then:

- Section extension 4 shall be used for all symbols containing PDSCH REs and for symbols containing both PDSCH and DMRS REs.
If the O-RU only supports section extension 5 on a given endpoint, then:

- Section extension 5 shall be used for all symbols containing PDSCH REs and for symbols containing both PDSCH and DMRS REs.
- If the radio supports 4 and 5 on a given endpoint, then
- Section extension 4 shall be used for symbols containing only PDSCH REs .
- Section extensions 5 shall be used for symbols containing DMRS + PDSCH REs.
The test will only verify DL correct encoding of IQ information, as the Modulation Compression model is not applicable for uplink

As the Modulation Compression model does not require IQ bit width to be setup, there is no need to run multiple compression tests for various IQ bit width.

The CUSM_E must generate:

| Stimulus File Name | Description |
| --- | --- |
| NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-DL-UNC-16B | Non-Static Downlink Uncompressed (CU-plane) |
| NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-DL-MC | Non-Static Downlink Modulation Compression |

Test Entrance Criteria

Same as 3.2.5.3.7.

Test Methodology

Same as 3.2.5.3.7 with Static Modulation Compression test patterns

NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-DL-MC

Via the M-Plane or another suitable mechanism, put the O-RU into a static configuration with the downlink configured as follow: Modulation Compression

Validation only of the downlink measurements

Test Requirement (expected result)

All validation steps above are within expected ranges or correctly match the expected outcome.

##### TDD UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) Block Floating Point + Selective RE Format

- Test Description and Applicability
This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format

The Block Floating-Point+ Selective RE Format scenario is a static format scenario that will verify DL and UL correct encoding of IQ information for 2 supported bit widths: 9 bits or 14 bits.

For this test scenario, the compression test methodology will be based on the description in clause 3.2.5.3.1

However, on top of the test frame requirements from clause 3.2.5.3.1, this test scenario also requires a test frame that MUST include PRBs with a combination of allocated and empty Resource Elements in the same symbol, to verify if the O-RU properly interprets the sReMask value in the udCompParam field (user data compression parameter). The measurements must be performed on the symbols that include a combination of empty and allocated resource elements.

The recommended test frame is based on Type 2 DMRS with 2 DMRS CDM groups without data. The resource mapping model for the Resource Blocks is shown on the diagram below, where both symbols #2 and #11 include a combination of empty and allocated Resources.

The uncompressed and compressed test frames are listed in Table 3.2.5-14.

| Stimulus File Name | Description |
| --- | --- |
| NR-FR1-TDD -CMP-TST -ST-DL-UNC-RE-16B | Static Downlink Uncompressed (CU-plane) with both empty and allocated RE in the same symbol |
| NR-FR1-TDD -CMP-TST -ST-UL-UNC-RE-16B | Static Uplink Uncompressed (C-plane only) with both empty and allocated RE in the same symbol |
| NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-BRE-9B | Static Downlink Block Floating Point + Selective RE 9 Bits (CU-plane) |
| NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-BRE-14B | Static Downlink Block Floating Point + Selective 14 Bits (CU-plane) |
| NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-UL-BRE-9B | Static Uplink Block Floating Point 9 Bits + Selective RE   (C-plane only) |
| NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-UL-BRE-14B | Static Uplink Block Floating Point 14 Bits + Selective RE (C-plane only) |

Test Entrance Criteria

Same as 3.2.3.3.2 for static Block floating point + Selective RE formats.

Test Methodology

Same as 3.2.3.3.2 with Static Block Floating Point + Selective RE test patterns.

The uncompressed test frames used for this test are

- NR-FR1-TDD -CMP-TST -ST-DL-UNC-RE-16B
- NR-FR1-TDD -CMP-TST -ST-UL-UNC-RE-16B
The compressed test frames used for this test are

- NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-BRE-9B
- NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-BRE-14B
- NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-UL-BRE-9B
- NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-UL-BRE-14B
Test Requirement (expected result)

Same as 3.2.3.3.2.

##### TDD UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) mod-compr + Selective RE Format

- Test Description and Applicability
This test is CONDITIONALMANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format.

This modulation compression + Selective format scenario is a static format scenario, based on 3.2.3.3.2 with some important differences

The purpose is to validate Radio Unit’s correct interpretation of the Modulation compression parameters used in the Section Extension Type =4

The test will only verify Downlink correct encoding of IQ information, as the Modulation Compression model is not applicable for uplink

As the Modulation Compression model does not require IQ bit width to be setup, there is no need to run multiple compression tests for various IQ bit widths.

On top of the test frame requirements described above , this test scenario requires a test frame that MUST include PRBs with a combination of allocated and empty Resource Elements in the same symbol, to verify if the O-RU properly interprets the sReMask value in the udCompParam field (user data compression parameter). The measurements must be performed on the symbols that include a combination of empty and allocated resource elements.

The recommended test frame is based on Type 2 DMRS with 2 DMRS CDM groups without data. The resource mapping model for the Resource Blocks is shown on the diagram below, where both symbols #2 and #11 include a combination of empty and allocated Resources.

The uncompressed and compressed test frames are listed in the table below

| Stimulus File Name | Description |
| --- | --- |
| NR-FR1-TDD -CMP-TST -ST-DL-UNC-RE-16B | Static Downlink Uncompressed (CU-plane) with both empty and allocated RE in the same symbol |
| TDD-NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-MRE | Static Downlink Modulation Compression + Selective RE |

Test Entrance Criteria

Same as 3.2.5.3.2.

Test Methodology

Same as 3.2.3.3.2 with Static Modulation Compression test patterns

The uncompressed test frames used for this test are

- TDD-NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-UNC-RE-16B
The compressed test frames used for this test are

- TDD-NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-MRE
Via the M-Plane or another suitable mechanism, put the O-RU into a static configuration with the downlink configured as follow: Modulation Compression  + Selective RE

Test Requirement (expected result)

Same as 3.2.3.3.2.

##### TDD UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static Format (NS) Block Floating Point + Selective RE Format

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONALMANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format.

This Block Floating-Point+ Selective RE Format scenario is a non-static format scenario that will verify DL and UL correct encoding of IQ information for 2 supported bit widths: 9 bits or 14 bits.

For this test scenario, the compression test methodology will be based on the description in clause 3.2.3.3.1

However, on top of the test frame requirements from clause 3.2.3.3.1, this test scenario also requires a test frame that MUST include PRBs with a combination of allocated and empty Resource Elements in the same symbol, to verify if the O-RU properly interprets the sReMask value in the udCompParam field (user data compression parameter). The measurements must be performed on the symbols that include a combination of empty and allocated resource elements.

A test frame example can be based on Type 2 DMRS with 2 DMRS CDM groups without data. The resource mapping model for the Resource Blocks is shown on the diagram below, where both symbols #2 and #11 include a combination of empty and allocated Resources.

The uncompressed and compressed test frames are listed in the table below

| Stimulus File Name | Description |
| --- | --- |
| TDD-NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-UNC-RE-16B | Non-Static Downlink Uncompressed (CU-plane) with both empty and allocated RE in the same symbol |
| TDD-NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-UNC-RE-16B | Non-Static Uplink Uncompressed (C-plane only) with both empty and allocated RE in the same symbol |
| TDD-NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-BRE-9B | Non-Static Downlink Block Floating Point + Selective RE 9 Bits (CU-plane) |
| TDD-NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-BRE-14B | Non-Static Downlink Block Floating Point + Selective 14 Bits (CU-plane) |
| TDD-NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-BRE-9B | Non-Static Uplink Block Floating Point 9 Bits + Selective RE   (C-plane only) |
| TDD-NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-BRE-14B | Non-Static Uplink Block Floating Point 14 Bits + Selective RE (C-plane only) |

Test Entrance Criteria

Same as 3.2.5.3.7 for Non-Static Block floating point + Selective RE formats.

Test Methodology

Same as 3.2.3.3.2 with Non-Static Block Floating Point + Selective RE test patterns

The uncompressed test frames used for this test are

- TDD-NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-UNC-BRE-16B
- TDD-NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-UNC-BRE-16B
The compressed test frames used for this test are

- TDD-NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-BRE-9B
- TDD-NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-BRE-14B
- TDD-NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-BRE-9B
- TDD-NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-BRE-14B
Test Requirement (expected result)

Same as 3.2.3.3.2.

##### TDD UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static Format (NS) mod-compr + Selective RE Format

- Test Description and Applicability
This test is CONDITIONALMANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format.

This Modulation Compression + Selective RE Format scenario is a non-static format scenario that will verify DL correct encoding of IQ information.

This is the same as 3.2.5.3.13 with Non-Static test frames

The uncompressed and compressed test frames are listed in the table below

| Stimulus File Name | Description |
| --- | --- |
| NR-FR1-TDD -CMP-TST -NS-DL-UNC-RE-16B | Non Static Downlink Uncompressed (CU-plane) with both empty and allocated RE in the same symbol |
| NR-FR1-TDD -CMP-TST -NS-DL-MRE | Non Static Downlink Modulation Compression + Selective RE |

- Test Entrance Criteria
Same as 3.2.5.3.12 for non-static Modulation Compression + Selective RE formats.

- Test Methodology
Same as 3.2.3.3.2 with Non-Static Block Floating Point + Selective RE test patterns

The uncompressed test frames used for this test are

- NR-FR1-TDD -CMP-TST -NS-DL-UNC-RE-16B
The compressed test frames used for this test are

- NR-FR1-TDD -CMP-TST -NS-DL-MRE
- Test Requirement (expected result)
Same as 3.2.3.3.2.

The delay management tests for FR1 TDD Conducted are the same as the tests described in clause 3.2.3.4 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Delay Management (DLM), except that the TDD waveforms are to be used as shown in 3.2.1.1.3. The tests for uplink and downlink may be executed independently as described in the corresponding FDD test case for Delay Management or the tester may choose to combine the uplink and downlink tests into a single test.

This test is for future study.

The LAA tests for FR1 TDD Conducted are the same as the tests described in clause 3.2.3.6.

The LTE tests for FR1 TDD Conducted are the same as the tests described in clause 3.2.3.7.  except that the TDD waveforms are to be used as shown in Figure 3.2.5.2-1 Combined DL and UL TDD 20 MHz 100 RB. The tests for uplink and downlink may be executed independently as described in the corresponding FDD test case for Delay Management or the tester may choose to combine the uplink and downlink tests into a single test.

The Section Type 3 tests for FR1 TDD Conducted are the same as the tests described in clause 3.2.3.8.

### FR1 and FR2 TDD Non-conducted OTA Signal Tests

All TDD tests described in this clause will be combined UL and DL tests (i.e. a single test frame describing both uplink and downlink). The default test frame used in this clause is described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 of this document for FR1 radios and clause 3.2.1.1.4 for FR2 radios.

There are several variations on this test signal depending on the capabilities of the radio.  If the radio does not support the numerology used in the example tests as reported in the M-plane it will be up to the test developer to modify their tests to adapt to the radio.  This can usually be accomplished by using stock test patterns described above.  The test is expected to follow the same spirit as the tests in this document but things like symbol numbers, number of PRBs, etc. may have to be changed.

Test Description and Applicability

This test is MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can meet the most basic uplink and downlink requirements for O-RAN fronthaul using a TDD signal.  Subsequent tests will build on this to exercise additional capabilities of the Fronthaul.

Using the standard TDD test frame described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4 for FR2, the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink and uplink the default signal.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit and receive  a basic 3GPP, TDD test frame using the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.5 of this document (or a similar 3GPP waveform) except only one spatial stream on one antenna will be used.  This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required).  All downlink user data in this test will be a PN23 sequence and all uplink user data will also be a PN23 sequence.

Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4 for FR2 of this document.  The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described by TM-FR1-TM1.1 for FR1 and 120 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz bandwidth as described by TM FR2-TM1.1 for FR2.  It will be for 5G New Radio only.

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.  Connect the signal analyzer and signal source to the O-RU antenna ports and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the signal described above in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4  for FR2 in the CUSM emulator.  Built the appropriate test frame (uplink slots) for the signal source. Use the CUSM emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal. Every symbol used in the test should be described by a single section (DL-SCH that are used for the test, DMRS and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.  Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages for downlink slots only. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4  for FR2.  Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.  It will be the responsibility of the TER’s signal analyzer and source to coordinate downlink and uplink TDD transmissions.  The CUSM Emulator of the TER is responsible for receiving uplink U-Plane messages, extracting IQ and decoding it to bits which can be compared to those sent by the signal source.

Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received by the signal analyzer shall be the same as the signal described above.  If it contains all the same PRB assignments and  the PN23 sequence, the test passes.

Test Description and Applicability

This test is MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can meet the extended uplink and downlink requirements for O-RAN fronthaul using a TDD signal.  This test modifies the previous test by using a PN23 sequence in all test PDSCH sections.

Using the standard TDD test frame described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4  for FR2 the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink and uplink the default signal.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit and receive  an extended 3GPP TDD test frame using the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4  for FR2 of this document (or a similar 3GPP waveform) except only one spatial stream on one antenna will be used.  This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required).  All downlink user data in this test will be a PN23 sequence and all uplink user data will also be a PN23 sequence.

Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4  for FR2 of this document.  The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described by TM-FR1-TM1.1 for FR1 and 120 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz bandwidth as described by TM FR2-TM1.1 for FR2.  It will be for 5G New Radio only.

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.  Connect the signal analyzer to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the signal described above in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4  for FR2 in the CUSM emulator. In this case use a PN23 sequence for the downlink shared channel.  Build the appropriate test frame (uplink slots) for the signal source. Use the CUSM emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the uplink and downlink signals. Every symbol used in the test should be described by a single section (DL-SCH that are used for the test, DMRS and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.  Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages for downlink slots only. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4  for FR2.  Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.  It will be the responsibility of the TER’s signal analyzer and source to coordinate downlink and uplink TDD transmissions.  The CUSM Emulator of the TER is responsible for receiving uplink U-Plane messages, extracting IQ and decoding it to bits which can be compared to those sent by the signal source.

Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received by the signal analyzer shall be the same as the signal described above.  If it contains all the same PRB assignments and the PN23 sequence, the test passes.

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can accurately interpret C-Plane resource allocation messages with the SymInc parameter set, transfer U-Plane data into the correct resource blocks and transmit this data accurately in the downlink and interpret and capture the correct resource blocks in the uplink with the SymInc parameter set.    This test uses a PN23 sequence in all test PDSCH sections.

Using the standard TDD test frame described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4  for FR2 the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink and uplink the specified signal using the SymInc bit in both uplink and downlink.

Only one spatial stream on one antenna will be used.  This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required).  All downlink user data in this test will be a PN23 sequence and all uplink user data will also be a PN23 sequence.

Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4  for FR2 of this document.  The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described by TM-FR1-TM1.1   for FR1 and 120 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz bandwidth as described by TM FR2-TM1.1 for FR2.  It will be for 5G New Radio only.

The radio must support the SymInc Parameter as notified by the M-Plane.  The signal analyzer must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel.

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.  Connect the signal analyzer to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.  Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna port and configure it as described below.

Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the signal described above in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4  for FR2 in the CUSM emulator. In this case use a PN23 sequence for the downlink shared channel.  Build the appropriate test frame (uplink slots) for the signal source. Use the CUSM emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the uplink and downlink signals. Every symbol used in the test should be described by a single section (DL-SCH that are used for the test, DMRS and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.  Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages for downlink slots only. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4  for FR2.  Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.  It will be the responsibility of the TER’s signal analyzer and source to coordinate downlink and uplink TDD transmissions.  The CUSM Emulator of the TER is responsible for receiving uplink U-Plane messages, extracting IQ and decoding it to bits which can be compared to those sent by the signal source.

For the downlink slots and symbols: Every symbol should be described by a single type 1 section (DL-SCH and DCI) except symbols #5 and #6 which will be used for the SymInc test. The data in these sections must be a PN23 sequence using an initial seed of all ones. Each symbol should be a new PN23 sequence, that is PRB 0 should contain the data from a new PN23 sequence for each symbol. Symbols number 5 and 6 should be stock data sections type “E” as shown above.  This stock data section consists of two adjacent symbols each containing two sections.  The corresponding C-Plane message will contain 4 section IDs in a single C-Plane message describing symbols #5 and #6.  The startSymbolId in the application header will be symbol #5. The second section ID for symbol #5 will have the SymInc bit set informing the O-RU that the next section will begin describing symbol #6. The corresponding U-Plane messages will be a new PN23 sequence for each symbol (5 and 6). Symbol #6 contains PTRS in TM FR2-TM1.1. The data payload should be mapped around the PTRS.  Additional sections should be included to describe the DCI symbols as well as Reference Signals described in 38.141-1.

For the uplink sections and symbols: Load uplink test waveform  on the RF signal source.  Note this signal has a PN23 sequence as user data.  Configure the source to generate a new PN23 sequence in symbols #5 and #6.  Configure the signal source to play test waveforms on 10ms frame boundaries starting when it receives a trigger signal from the O-DU emulator that all C-Plane messages have been sent.  Ensure the O-RU and source are synchronized so downlink slots do not conflict with uplink slots.  Load C-Plane message sequence on Test Equipment O-RU (TER) – Only symbols #5 and #6 in each slot will be used in this test. All other symbols will contain either reference signals or data but will not be considered part of the test.  These two symbols will be used to determine whether the radio properly increments the current symbol ID when the SymInc bit is set. The C-Plane message for symbol #5 should have the SymInc bit set.  This message should have a second section describing symbol #6 (using the SymInc mechanism).  All PRBs in each symbol will be requested (In the example waveform 51 PRBs).

Steps:

Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul Messages

Launch test to play the C-Plane messages and the downlink U-Plane messages and trigger the source to play the RF signal on a frame boundary.

Play messages to the O-RU respecting the timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4  for FR2.  Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the frame.

Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the Antenna port

Extract IQ information from the captured U-Plane messages

Extract IQ information from the signal analyzer for downlink slots

Extract Payload for both signals

Compare payload binary sequences

Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The signal extracted by the U-Plane messages (uplink) should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received by the signal analyzer should be the same as the signal described above.  If it contains all the same PRB assignments and the correct PN23 data, the downlink test passes.

The test frame extracted from the uplink U-Plane messages should be the same as the uplink signal described above.  If it contains all the same PRB assignments and correct PN23 data, the uplink test passes.

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can accurately interpret C-Plane resource allocation messages with the reMask parameter set, transfer U-Plane data into the correct resource blocks and transmit this data accurately in the downlink and interpret and capture the correct resource blocks in the uplink with the reMask parameter set.    This test uses a PN23 sequence in all test PDSCH sections.

Using the standard TDD test frame described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4  for FR2 the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink and uplink the specified signal using the rb bit in both uplink and downlink.

Only one spatial stream on one antenna will be used.  This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required).  All downlink user data in this test will be a PN23 sequence and all uplink user data will also be a PN23 sequence.

Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4  for FR2 of this document.  The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described by TM-FR1-TM1.1   for FR1 and 120 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz bandwidth as described by TM FR2-TM1.1 for FR2.  It will be for 5G New Radio only.

The radio must support the reMask Parameter as notified by the M-Plane.  The signal analyzer must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel.

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.  Connect the signal analyzer to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.  Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna port and configure it as described below.

Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the signal described above in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4  for FR2 in the CUSM emulator. In this case use a PN23 sequence for the downlink shared channel.  Build the appropriate test frame (uplink slots) for the signal source. Use the CUSM emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the uplink and downlink signals. Every symbol used in the test should be described by a single section (DL-SCH that are used for the test, DMRS and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.  Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages for downlink slots only. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4  for FR2.  Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.  It will be the responsibility of the TER’s signal analyzer and source to coordinate downlink and uplink TDD transmissions.  The CUSM Emulator of the TER is responsible for receiving uplink U-Plane messages, extracting IQ and decoding it to bits which can be compared to those sent by the signal source.

For the downlink slots and symbols: Symbol number 2 should be stock data Section Type “D” as shown in Figure 3.2.3.1-4.  This test will only be using PRBs 1 through 5.  The corresponding C-Plane message will contain a section IDs in a single C-Plane message describing symbol #6.  The startSymbolId in the application header will be symbol #6. The C-Plane message will have one section with the reMask set to only the odd number resource elements.  The number of PRBs will be 5. The start PRB will be 1.

The corresponding U-Plane message will be a new PN23 Sequence (initial seed is all ones) in PRBs 1 through 5 of symbol #2.

For the uplink sections and symbols: Load C-Plane message sequence on Test Equipment O-RU (TER) symbol #5 in each slot will be used to determine whether the radio properly transmits only every other resource element when the reMask is set. No other symbols will be used in this test, however other symbols containing reference signals should be used to ensure the O-RU can synchronize with the TER.  The TER will not request any other symbols from the O-RU in this test.  The C-Plane message for symbol #5 should have the reMask set to tell the radio to send only every odd resource element. Only the PRBs 1 through 5 will be used in this section (matching stock data Section Type “D”). The number of PRBs will be 4 and the start PRB will be 1.

Steps:

Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul Messages

Launch test to play the C-Plane messages and the downlink U-Plane messages and trigger the source to play the RF signal on a frame boundary.

Play messages to the O-RU respecting the timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4  for FR2.  Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the frame.

Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the Antenna port

Extract IQ information from the captured U-Plane messages

Extract IQ information from the signal analyzer for downlink slots

Extract Payload for both signals

Compare payload binary sequences

Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The signal extracted by the U-Plane messages (uplink) should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received by the signal analyzer should be the same as the signal described above.  If it contains all the same PRB assignments and the correct PN23 sequence as data, the downlink test passes.

The test frame extracted from the uplink U-Plane messages should be the same as the uplink signal described above.  If it contains all the same PRB assignments and the correct PN23 sequence as data, the uplink test passes.

Test Description and Applicability

This test is MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can accurately interpret C-Plane resource allocation messages with the rb parameter set, transfer U-Plane data into the correct resource blocks and transmit this data accurately in the downlink and interpret and capture the correct resource blocks in the uplink with the rb parameter set.    This test uses a PN23 sequence in all test PDSCH sections.

Using the standard TDD test frame described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4  for FR2 the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink and uplink the specified signal using the rb bit in both uplink and downlink.

Only one spatial stream on one antenna will be used.  This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required).  All downlink user data in this test will be a PN23 sequence and all uplink user data will also be a PN23 sequence.

Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4  for FR2 of this document.  The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described by TM-FR1-TM1.1 for FR1 and 120 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz bandwidth as described by TM FR2-TM1.1 for FR2.  It will be for 5G New Radio only.

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.  Connect the signal analyzer to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.  Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna port and configure it as described below.

Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the signal described above in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4  for FR2 in the CUSM emulator. In this case use a PN23 sequence for the downlink shared channel.  Build the appropriate test frame (uplink slots) for the signal source. Use the CUSM emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the uplink and downlink signals. Every symbol used in the test should be described by a single section (DL-SCH that are used for the test, DMRS and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.  Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages for downlink slots only. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4  for FR2.  Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.  It will be the responsibility of the TER’s signal analyzer and source to coordinate downlink and uplink TDD transmissions.  The CUSM Emulator of the TER is responsible for receiving uplink U-Plane messages, extracting IQ and decoding it to bits which can be compared to those sent by the signal source.

For the downlink slots and symbols: Every allocated (see below) symbol should be described by a single section (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.  Symbol #3 of each downlink slot should be Stock data Section Type  “D” as shown in section 3.2.1.1.5 above. The control plane message for symbol #3 will only include PRBs number 5 through 23.  This C-Plane message will have the rb bit set to one for this section. All other DL-SCH symbols will not contain data except required reference signals needed to synchronize the signal analyzer.  Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. U-Plane data in symbol #3 will include a new PN23 sequence starting with an initial seed of all ones starting in PRB number 5. Additional sections should be included to describe the DCI symbols as well as Reference Signals described in TS 138.141-1.

For the uplink sections and symbols: Load uplink test waveform  on the RF signal source.  Note this signal has a PN23 sequence as user data.  Configure the signal source to play the  TDD test waveforms on 10ms frame boundaries starting when it receives a trigger signal from the O-DU emulator that all C-Plane messages have been sent.  Ensure the O-RU and source are synchronized so downlink slots do not conflict with uplink slots. Load C-Plane message sequence on Test Equipment O-RU (TER) – This C-Plane sequence should describe a single section per uplink symbol (51 RBs per symbol).  The C-Plane message for uplink symbol #6 should have the rb bit set.  All other sections should have the rb bit set to zero.

Steps:

Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul Messages

Launch test to play the C-Plane messages and the downlink U-Plane messages and trigger the source to play the RF signal on a frame boundary.

Play messages to the O-RU respecting the timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4  for FR2.  Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the frame.

Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the Antenna port

Extract IQ information from the captured U-Plane messages

Extract IQ information from the signal analyzer for downlink slots

Extract Payload for both signals

Compare payload binary sequences

Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The signal extracted by the U-Plane messages (uplink) should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received by the signal analyzer should be the same as the signal described above.  If it contains all the same PRB assignments and PN23 sequence data, the downlink test passes.

The test frame extracted from the uplink U-Plane messages shall be the same as the uplink signal described above.  If it contains all the same PRB assignments and PN23 sequence data, the uplink test passes.

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can accurately interpret C-Plane resource allocation messages with section extension 6, transfer U-Plane data into the correct resource blocks and transmit this data accurately in the downlink and interpret and capture the correct resource blocks in the uplink with section extension 6.    This test uses a PN23 sequence in all test PDSCH sections.

Using the standard TDD test frame described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4  for FR2 the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink and uplink the specified signal using section extension 6 in both uplink and downlink.

In this test stock data section definition C will be used to exercise the non-contiguous RB allocation, all 273 PRBs (51 in the uplink slots) or the max number of PRBs per symbol for the highest numerology the radio supports will be used in this test.

Only one spatial stream on one antenna will be used.  This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required).  All downlink user data in this test will be a PN23 sequence and all uplink user data will also be a PN23 sequence.

Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4  for FR2 of this document.  The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described by TM-FR1-TM1.1  for FR1 and 120 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz bandwidth as described by TM FR2-TM1.1 for FR2.  It will be for 5G New Radio only.

The radio must support section extension 6 as notified by the M-Plane.  The signal analyzer must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel.

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.  Connect the signal analyzer to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.  Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna port and configure it as described below.

Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the signal described above in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4  for FR2 in the CUSM emulator. In this case use a PN23 sequence for the downlink shared channel.  Build the appropriate test frame (uplink slots) for the signal source. Use the CUSM emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the uplink and downlink signals. Every symbol used in the test should be described by a single section (DL-SCH that are used for the test, DMRS and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.  Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages for downlink slots only. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1.  Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.  It will be the responsibility of the TER’s signal analyzer and source to coordinate downlink and uplink TDD transmissions.  The CUSM Emulator of the TER is responsible for receiving uplink U-Plane messages, extracting IQ and decoding it to bits which can be compared to those sent by the signal source.

For the downlink slots and symbols: Only symbols number 6 and 7 will be used in each slot. Symbol #6 contains PTRS in TM FR2-TM1.1. The data payload should be mapped around the PTRS.  Other symbols may contain data including reference signals to ensure test equipment can synchronize with the signal.  The starting PRB will be zero and number of PRBs will be chosen from one or more columns in Table 3.2.6-2 below.  The resource block group size will be 16 based on ETSI TS 138.214 Table 5.1.2.2.1-1 as shown in Table 3.2.6-1 below using configuration 2.

| Bandwidth Part Size | Configuration 1 | Configuration 2 |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 1 – 36 | 2 | 4 |
| 37 – 72 | 4 | 8 |
| 73 – 144 | 8 | 16 |
| 145 – 275 | 16 |  |

Using the calculations in the O-RAN CUS Specification [2], clause 7.7.6 for the FR1 test waveform described above, the ID of the last RBG will be 17, f(0) will be 16, f(n) will be 16 and f(lastRbgID) will be 1 (17 total RBGs), startPrbc will be zero and numPrbc will be 273.  For the FR2 test waveform, the ID of the last RBG will be 8, f(0) will be 8, f(n) will be 8 and f(lastRbgID) will be 2 (8 total RBGs), startPrbc will be zero and numPrbc will be 66.  If the radio does not support this numerology the following table will apply.  The number of PRBs correspond to Table 3.2.3-2 Stock Data Sections:

| # PRBs per Symbol (11-79) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| max PRB/sym | 11 | 24 | 25 | 32 | 50 | 51 | 52 | 65 | 66 | 79 |
| numPRBc | 11 | 24 | 25 | 32 | 50 | 51 | 52 | 65 | 66 | 79 |
| rbgSize | 4 | 8 | 16 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| lastRbgID | 2 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 4 |  |  |  |  |
| f(0) | 4 | 8 | 16 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| f(n) | 4 | 8 | 16 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| f(lastRbgID) | 3 | 4 | 1 | 2 | 15 |  |  |  |  |  |
| rbgMask (Hex) | 0000005 | 000003D | 000007D | 00000FD | 00001FD | 000001D |  |  |  |  |

| # PRBs per Symbol (100-273) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| max PRB/sym | 100 | 106 | 107 | 132 | 133 | 135 | 162 | 217 | 270 | 273 |
| numPRBc | 100 | 106 | 107 | 132 | 133 | 135 | 162 | 217 | 270 | 273 |
| rbgSize | 16 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| lastRbgID | 6 | 8 | 10 | 13 | 16 | 17 |  |  |  |  |
| f(0) | 16 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| f(n) | 16 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| f(lastRbgID) | 4 | 10 | 11 | 5 | 7 | 2 | 9 | 14 | 1 |  |
| rbgMask (Hex) | 000007D | 00001FD | 00007FD | 0003FFD | 001FFFD | 003FFFD |  |  |  |  |

Table 3.2.6-2 Stock Data Sections

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal for FR1 or NR-FR2-TM1.1 for FR2 as described above in the O-DU emulator.  Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal. Every symbol should be described by a single type 1 section (DL-SCH and DCI) except symbols #6 and #7 which will be used for the section extension 6 test. The data in symbol #6 should be a new PN23 sequence starting in the first PRB and continuing to PRB 273 (RBG number 17) for FR1 and PRB 66 (RBG number 8) for FR2.  Symbol #7 should be identical to symbol #6.  The rbgMask value should be set to 0x3FFFD for FR1 or 0x1FD for FR2, and the symbolMask value should be set to 00000011000000b.  No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.

The O-DU emulator will build a U-Plane message containing the PN23 IQ data for the first 16 PRBs (RBG 0), this message will have the section ID used in the C-Plane message described above.  Another U-Plane message will be created using the same section ID but with the PN23 data for the rest of the RBGs except for RBG 1 in it.  The same U-Plane messages will be used for symbol #7.

For the uplink sections and symbols: For this test symbols number 6 and 7 will be used in each slot.  For the FR1 waveform, the starting PRB will be zero and number of PRBs will be 51.  The resource block group size will be 8.  Using the calculations in the O-RAN CUS Specification [2], clause 7.7.6, the ID of the last RBG will be 6, f(0) will be 8, f(n) will be 8 and f(lastRbgID) will be 3.  For the FR2 waveform the parameters are similar to the downlink indicated above.

Every symbol should be described by a single type 1 section (DL-SCH and DCI) except symbols #6 and #7 which will be used for the section extension 6 test. The data in symbol #6 is expected to be a new PN23 sequence starting in the first PRB and continuing to PRB 51 (RBG number 6) for FR1 or PRB 66 (RBG number 8 for FR2).  Symbol #7 should be identical to symbol #6.  The rbgMask value should be set to 0x7D for FR1 and 0x1FD for FR2,  and the symbolMask value should be set to 00000011000000b.  No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.  If the radio only supports another numerology see the tables above in the downlink sections and symbols for appropriate modifications.

Steps:

Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul Messages

Launch test to play the C-Plane messages and the downlink U-Plane messages and trigger the source to play the RF signal on a frame boundary.

Play messages to the O-RU respecting the timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4  for FR2.  Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the frame.

Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the Antenna port

Extract IQ information from the captured U-Plane messages

Extract IQ information from the signal analyzer for downlink slots

Extract Payload for both signals

Compare payload binary sequences

Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The signal extracted by the U-Plane messages (uplink) should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received by the signal analyzer should be the same as the signal described above.  If it contains all the same PRB assignments and the correct PN23 sequence as data, the downlink test passes.

The test frame extracted from the uplink U-Plane messages should be the same as the uplink signal described above.  If it contains all the same PRB assignments and the correct PN23 sequence as data, the uplink test passes.

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can meet the extended uplink and downlink requirements for O-RAN fronthaul using a TDD signal.  This test uses time and frequency to couple C-Plane and U-Plane messages.

Using the standard TDD test frame described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4  for FR2 the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink and uplink the default signal.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit and receive  an extended 3GPP TDD test frame using the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 of this document (or a similar 3GPP waveform) except only one spatial stream on one antenna will be used.  This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required).  All downlink user data in this test will be a PN23 sequence and all uplink user data will also be a PN23 sequence. The radio must report over the M-Plane that it supports C and U plane coupling via time and frequency.

Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4  for FR2 of this document.  The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described by TM-FR1-TM1.1 and 120 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz bandwidth as described by TM FR2-TM1.1 for FR2.  It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must report over the M-Plane that it supports C and U plane coupling via time and frequency.

The O-RU must have a conducted antenna port (or TAB connector) to be connected to a signal analyzer and signal source.  It must also support the default parameters defined in clause 3.2.1.1.1 above.

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.  Connect the signal analyzer to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the signal described above in clause 3.2.1.1.3 in the CUSM emulator. In this case use a PN23 sequence for the downlink shared channel.  Build the appropriate test frame (uplink slots) for the signal source. Use the CUSM emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the uplink and downlink signals. Every symbol used in the test should be described by a single section (DL-SCH that are used for the test, DMRS and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.  Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages for downlink slots only. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1.  Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.  It will be the responsibility of the TER’s signal analyzer and source to coordinate downlink and uplink TDD transmissions.  The CUSM Emulator of the TER is responsible for receiving uplink U-Plane messages, extracting IQ and decoding it to bits which can be compared to those sent by the signal source.  All section IDs in C-Plane messages and downlink U-Plane messages must be 4095.

C-Plane and Downlink U-Plane messages sent by the TER will have valid values in the following fields:

- EAxC ID
- Datadirection bit
- Frame ID, subframeID, slotID, startsymbolID, and NumSymbol
- SectionID must have a value 4095
- SymInc, rb reMask and section extension #6 are not used in this test
It is the responsibility of the TER to properly arrange uplink U-Plane messages using only time and frequency resources.

Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

All received U-Plane messages must have section ID equal to 4095

The test frame received by the signal analyzer should be the same as the signal described above.  If it contains all the same PRB assignments and all zero data, the test passes.

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to test whether the radio can implement coupling U and C plane via time and frequency and section description priorities requirements for O-RAN fronthaul using a TDD signal.  This test combines the FDD, uplink and downlink tests for these same features.  Note, there are two versions of this feature: coupling C and U plane messages via frequency and time and Section Description Priorities and coupling C and U plane messages via frequency and time and Section Description Priorities (optimized).  This test requires both tests to be performed if the radio supports both methods otherwise only one test is to be performed in the radio only supports one of these methods.  These methods are listed under test methodology below.

Starting with the standard TDD test frame described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4  for FR2 the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink and uplink the signals described below.

Only one spatial stream on one antenna will be used.  This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required).  All downlink user data in this test will be a PN23 sequence and all uplink user data will also be a PN23 sequence.

Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4  for FR2 of this document and those specified below.  The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described by TM-FR1-TM1.1 for FR1 and 120 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz bandwidth as described by TM FR2-TM1.1 for FR2.  It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors.  It will be a TDD signal.

The O-RU must have a conducted antenna port (or TAB connector) to be connected to a signal analyzer and signal source.  It must also support the default parameters defined in clause 3.2.1.1.1 above.

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.  Connect the signal analyzer to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

- Procedure for Coupling C and U plane messages via frequency and time with section priorities
Build an appropriate C and U plane signals for the signals described below in the CUSM emulator. Every slot used in the test should be described by a single C-Plane message with multiple sections (DL-SCH that are used for the test, DMRS and DCI) using a Section Type 1 message. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.  Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages for downlink slots only. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1.  Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.  It will be the responsibility of the TER’s signal analyzer and source to coordinate downlink and uplink TDD transmissions.  The CUSM Emulator of the TER is responsible for receiving uplink U-Plane messages, extracting IQ and decoding it to bits which can be compared to those sent by the signal source.

- Downlink procedure:

| # | Section ext 6 | priority | symbolMask | startPrbc | numPrbc | reMask | rbgMask | beamId | numSymbol | Note |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | yes | +1 | 00000000000100 | 0 | 273 | 101010101010 | 0xFFFFC00 | Reference signal (DMRS) |  |  |
| 2 | yes | +1 | 00100000000000 | 0 | 273 | 101010101010 | 0xFFFFC00 | 1 | Reference signal (DMRS) |  |
| 3 | no | 0 | 11111000000000 Not used in this section without section extension 6. Just shown for information | 273 | 111111111111 | N/A | 100 | 6 | UE1 |  |
| 4 | yes | 0 | 00000100000100 | 15 | 32 | 010101010101 | 0x6000000 | 200 | 2? | UE2 |
| 5 | no | 0 | 00000011111000 Not used in this section without section extension 6. Just shown for information | 31 | 48 | 111111111111 | N/A | 300 | 8 | UE3 |
| 6 | no | 0 | 00000000000001 Not used in this section without section extension 6. Just shown for information | 10 | 2 | 111111111111 | N/A | 3 | 1 | Special channel |

In this test the section configuration will be as shown in Table 3.2.6-3 above.  The 6 sections will comprise one slot and this slot will be repeated continuously in the downlink slots in the TDD frame to synchronize the TER signal analyzer.  The six sections will be sent on one C-Plane message using C and U plane coupling via time and frequency.  The configuration above follows the example given in the CUSM specification.

The section numbers in the above table do not represent SectionID numbers but individual sections. Sections #1 and #2 describe hypothetical DMRS signals sent in symbols #2 and #11 in each slot.  These signals have every other subcarrier masked by reMask. This is the same as shown above in the standard NR-FR1-TM1.1 test signal shown above for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4  for FR2. The DMRS signals in symbol #2 have beam ID 1 and symbol #11 have beam ID 2.  These sections use section extension 6 and contain a higher priority than all other sections.

Section #3 describes PN23 data sent to hypothetical UE #1 it overlaps REs in sections #1 and #2 but has a lower priority so sections #1 and #2 are valid.  Since section #3 has contiguous symbols section extension 6 is not needed.

Section #4 is for hypothetical UE #2. It occupies the same symbols as the DMRS signals but uses a different reMask.  Since the symbols are not contiguous it uses sections extension 6 but the priority is set to the default 0.

Section #5 is for hypothetical UE #3 and uses a contiguous set of symbols so section extension 6 is not needed.  It does not overlap any other signals.  This section is optional because it does not test Section Description Priority.

Section #6 is a hypothetical special channel using only one symbol and does not require section extension 6.  This section is also optional.

U-Plane messages will contain:

- DMRS signals for every odd resource element as described by section #1 for symbol #11
- DMRS signals for every odd resource element as described by section #2 for symbol #2
- A new PN23 sequence in each of the first 5 symbols as described in section #3.  Note that for symbol #2 the PN sequence will be pierced by the DMRS signals.
- A new PN23 sequence for symbol #6 as described by section #4 as well as a new PN sequence for symbol #11.  These sequences are only 32 PRBs long and start in PRB 15. The sequence in symbol #11 will be pierced by DMRS signals.
- The user data for sections number #5 and #6 are standard PN23 sequences only for these symbols and PRBs described in the table above.  Symbol #6 contains PTRS in TM FR2-TM1.1. The data payload should be mapped around the PTRS.
- Uplink Procedure:
Build the following Uplink C-Plane message.

Start with a standard as G-FR1-A1-5 for FR1 or G-FR2-A3-1 for FR2 waveform.  Define the sections shown in table Table 3.2.6-4.  These sections are described below.

| # | Section ext 6 | priority | symbolMask | startPrbc | numPrbc | reMask | rbgMask | beamId | numSymbol | Note |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | yes | +1 | 00000000000100 | 0 | 273 | 101010101010 | 0xFFFFC00 | Reference signal (DMRS) |  |  |
| 2 | yes | +1 | 00100000000000 | 0 | 273 | 101010101010 | 0xFFFFC00 | 1 | Reference signal (DMRS) |  |
| 3 | no | 0 | 11111000000000 Not used in this section without section extension 6. Just shown for information | 64 | 273 | 111111111111 | N/A | 100 | 6 | UE1 |
| 4 | yes | 0 | 00000100000100 | 64 | 273 | 010101010101 | 0x0FFFC00 | 200 | 2? | UE2 |
| 5 | no | 0 | 00000011111000 Not used in this section without section extension 6. Just shown for information | 31 | 48 | 111111111111 | N/A | 300 | 8 | UE3 |
| 6 | no | 0 | 00000000000001 Not used in this section without section extension 6. Just shown for information | 10 | 2 | 111111111111 | N/A | 3 | 1 | Special channel |

In this test the section configuration will be as shown in Table 3.2.6-4 above.  The 6 sections will comprise one slot and this slot will be repeated to fill the entire frame (i.e. 20 times).  The six sections will be sent on one C-Plane message using C and U plane coupling via time and frequency.  The configuration above follows the example given in the CUSM specification.

- The section numbers in the above table do not represent SectionID numbers but individual sections. Sections #1 and #2 describe hypothetical DMRS signals sent in symbols #2 and #11 in each slot.  These signals have every other subcarrier masked by reMask. This is the same as shown above in the standard G-FR1-A1-5 test signal shown above with the exception that the DMRS signals continue for all 273 RBs. The DMRS signals in symbol #2 have beam ID 1 and symbol #11 have beam ID 2.  These sections use section extension 6 and contain a higher priority than all other sections.
- Section #3 describes PN23 data sent to hypothetical UE #1 it overlaps REs in sections #1 and #2 but has a lower priority so sections #1 and #2 are valid.  Since section #3 has contiguous symbols section extension 6 is not needed.  Note it starts in PRM 64 (RBG 4) and continues for the remainder of the 273 RBs.
- Section #4 is for hypothetical UE #2. It occupies the same symbols as the DMRS signals but uses a different reMask.  Since the symbols are not contiguous it uses sections extension 6 but the priority is set to the default 0.  It also starts in RBG 4 (RB 64) and continues to the rest of the 273 RBs.
- Section #5 is for hypothetical UE #3 and uses a contiguous set of symbols so section extension 6 is not needed.  It does not overlap any other signals.  This section is optional because it does not test Section Description Priority.
- Section #6 is a hypothetical special channel using only one symbol and does not require section extension 6.  This section is also optional.
- Load the following waveform into the signal source:
- DMRS signals for every odd resource element as described by section #1 for symbol #11
- DMRS signals for every odd resource element as described by section #2 for symbol #2
- A new PN23 sequence in each of the first 5 symbols as described in section #3.  Note that for symbol #2 the PN sequence will be pierced by the DMRS signals.
- A new PN23 sequence for symbol #6 as described by section #4 as well as a new PN sequence for symbol #11.  These sequences start in PRB 64 and continue to PRB 273. The sequence in symbol #11 will be pierced by DMRS signals.
- The user data for sections number #5 and #6 are standard PN23 sequences only for these symbols and PRBs described in the table above.
Configure signal source to play test waveforms on 10ms frame boundaries starting when it receives a trigger signal from the O-DU emulator that C-Plane messages have been sent.

Load C-Plane message described above on Test Equipment O-RU (TER). The C-Plane message will contain valid values in the following fields:

- EAxC ID
- Datadirection bit (Uplink)
- Frame ID, subframeID, slotID, startsymbolID, and NumSymbol
- SectionID must have a value 4095
Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul Messages

Launch test to play the RF uplink frame after the C-Plane messages have been sent honoring timing windows

Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the Antenna port

TER will arrange U-Plane messages according to time and frequency

Extract IQ information

Extract Payload

Compare payload binary sequences

Procedure for Coupling C and U plane messages via frequency and time with section priorities (optimized)

This test will be identical to the above test with the following exceptions:

There will be two C-Plane messages describing the uplink and downlink signals to be sent.

The first two sections listed in the table above (those with higher priorities) will be repeated in both C-Plane messages and will have a section ID equal to a value between 0 and “max-highest-priority-sections-per-slot” as sent on the M-Plane.

The other sections will be divided between the two C-Plane messages and not repeated.

The repeated C-plane message will have the “repetition” bit set to one.

Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received by the signal analyzer must be the same as the signal described above.  It must contain all the same PRB assignments and PN23 sequences.

The data received from the O-RU on the uplink U-Plane must match the uplink signal sent to the DUT including all the same PRB assignments and PN23 sequences.

The beamweights or magnitude and phase relation at the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) of the test signal that achieves the highest performance (i.e. best EVM, power, SNR, etc.) should match with the manufacturer’s declaration of the beam under test.  The procedures for test case 3.2.3.2.4 (UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – Predefined-beam Beamforming) and test case 3.2.3.2.3 (UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Predefined-beam Beamforming) should be used.

These expected results are applicable for either or both forms of this test.

If all of the above results are observed the test passes.

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can accurately interpret C-Plane resource allocation messages with section extension 12, transfer U-Plane data into the correct resource blocks and transmit this data accurately in the downlink and interpret and capture the correct resource blocks in the uplink with section extension 12.    This test uses a PN23 sequence in all test PDSCH sections.

Using the standard TDD test frame described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4  for FR2 the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink and uplink the specified signal using section extension 12 in both uplink and downlink.

In this test stock data section definition C will be used to exercise the non-contiguous RB allocation, all 273 PRBs (48 of the 51 in the uplink slots) or the max number of PRBs per symbol for the highest numerology the radio supports will be used in this test.

Only one spatial stream on one antenna will be used.  This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required).  All downlink user data in this test will be a PN23 sequence and all uplink user data will also be a PN23 sequence.

Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4  for FR2 of this document.  The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described by TM-FR1-TM1.1  for FR1 and 120 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz bandwidth as described by TM FR2-TM1.1 for FR2.  It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors.

The radio must support section extension 12 as notified by the M-Plane.  The signal analyzer must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel.

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.  Connect the signal analyzer to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.  Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna port and configure it as described below.

Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the signal described above in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4  for FR2 in the CUSM emulator. In this case use a PN23 sequence for the downlink shared channel.  Build the appropriate test frame (uplink slots) for the signal source. Use the CUSM emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the uplink and downlink signals. Every symbol used in the test should be described by a single section (DL-SCH that are used for the test, DMRS and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.  Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages for downlink slots only. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1.  Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.  It will be the responsibility of the TER’s signal analyzer and source to coordinate downlink and uplink TDD transmissions.  The CUSM Emulator of the TER is responsible for receiving uplink U-Plane messages, extracting IQ and decoding it to bits which can be compared to those sent by the signal source.

For the downlink slots and symbols: Only symbols number 6 and 7 will be used in each slot.  Other symbols may contain data including reference signals to ensure test equipment can synchronize with the signal.  The starting PRB will be zero and number of PRBs will be chosen from one or more columns in Table 3.2.6-6 below.  The resource block group size will be 16 based on ETSI TS 138.214 Table 5.1.2.2.1-1 as shown in Table 3.2.6-5Table 3.2.6-6 below using configuration 2.

| Bandwidth Part Size | Configuration 1 | Configuration 2 |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 1 – 36 | 2 | 4 |
| 37 – 72 | 4 | 8 |
| 73 – 144 | 8 | 16 |
| 145 – 275 | 16 |  |

Using the calculations in the O-RAN CUS Specification [2], clause 7.7.6, for the FR1 test waveform described above, the ID of the last RBG will be 17, f(0) will be 16, f(n) will be 16 and f(lastRbgID) will be 1 (17 total RBGs).  StartPrbc will be zero and numPrbc will be 273.  For the FR2 test waveform, the ID of the last RBG will be 8, f(0) will be 8, f(n) will be 8 and f(lastRbgID) will be 2 (8 total RBGs), startPrbc will be zero and numPrbc will be 66.  If the radio does not support this numerology the following table will apply.  The number of PRBs correspond to Table 3.2.3-2 Stock Data Sections:

| # PRBs per Symbol (11-79) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| max PRB/sym | 11 | 24 | 25 | 32 | 50 | 51 | 52 | 65 | 66 | 79 |
| numPRBc | 11 | 24 | 25 | 32 | 50 | 51 | 52 | 65 | 66 | 79 |
| rbgSize | 4 | 8 | 16 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| lastRbgID | 2 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 4 |  |  |  |  |
| f(0) | 4 | 8 | 16 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| f(n) | 4 | 8 | 16 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| f(lastRbgID) | 3 | 4 | 1 | 2 | 15 |  |  |  |  |  |

| # PRBs per Symbol (100-273) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| max PRB/sym | 100 | 106 | 107 | 132 | 133 | 135 | 162 | 217 | 270 | 273 |
| numPRBc | 100 | 106 | 107 | 132 | 133 | 135 | 162 | 217 | 270 | 273 |
| rbgSize | 16 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| lastRbgID | 6 | 8 | 10 | 13 | 16 | 17 |  |  |  |  |
| f(0) | 16 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| f(n) | 16 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| f(lastRbgID) | 4 | 10 | 11 | 5 | 7 | 2 | 9 | 14 | 1 |  |

Table 3.2.6-6 Stock Data Sections

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal for FR1 or NR-FR2-TM1.1 for FR2 as described above in the O-DU emulator.  Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal. Every symbol should be described by a single type 1 section (DL-SCH and DCI) except symbols #6 and #7 which will be used for the section extension 12 test. The data in symbol #6 should be a new PN23 sequence starting in the first PRB and continuing to PRB 273 (RBG number 17). Symbol #6 contains PTRS in TM FR2-TM1.1. The data payload should be mapped around the PTRS.  Symbol #7 should be identical to symbol #6.  The symMask value should be set to 00000011000000b.  No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.  The relevant parameters for the downlink C-Plane message are shown in the diagram below:

The O-DU emulator will build a U-Plane message containing the PN23 IQ data for the first 16 PRBs (RBG 0), this message will have the section ID used in the C-Plane message described above.  Another U-Plane message will be created using the same section ID but with the PN23 data for RBGs 2-17 in it.  The same U-Plane messages will be used for symbol #7.

For the uplink sections and symbols: For this test symbols number 6 and 7 will be used in each slot.  The starting PRB will be zero and number of PRBs will be 48.  The resource block group size will be 16.  Using the calculations in the O-RAN CUS Specification [2], clause 7.7.6, the ID of the last RBG will be 17, f(0) will be 16, f(n) will be 16 and f(lastRbgID) will be 1.

Every symbol should be described by a single type 1 section (DL-SCH and DCI) except symbols #6 and #7 which will be used for the section extension 6 test. The data in symbol #6 is expected to be a new PN23 sequence starting in the first PRB and continuing to PRB 48 (RBG number 2).  Symbol #7 should be identical to symbol #6.  The symMask value should be set to 00000011000000b.  No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.  If the radio only supports another numerology see the tables above in the downlink sections and symbols for appropriate modifications.  The relevant parameters for the uplink C-Plane message are shown in the diagram below:

Steps:

Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul Messages

Launch test to play the C-Plane messages and the downlink U-Plane messages and trigger the source to play the RF signal on a frame boundary.

Play messages to the O-RU respecting the timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4  for FR2.  Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the frame.

Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the Antenna port

Extract IQ information from the captured U-Plane messages

Extract IQ information from the signal analyzer for downlink slots

Extract Payload for both signals

Compare payload binary sequences

Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The signal extracted by the U-Plane messages (uplink) should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received by the signal analyzer should be the same as the signal described above.  If it contains all the same PRB assignments and the correct PN23 sequence as data, the downlink test passes.

The test frame extracted from the uplink U-Plane messages should be the same as the uplink signal described above.  If it contains all the same PRB assignments and the correct PN23 sequence as data, the uplink test passes.

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the O-RU can support static SRS configuration through the M-Plane.  This is an uplink only test so there is no corresponding downlink test for TDD.  The O-RU must report through the M-Plane that it supports static configuration of SRS.

This test will use the standard TDD test frame described in clause 3.2.1.1 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4  for FR2.  The test will have the CUSM emulator configure the O-RU, through the M-Plane, with a section of time/frequency resources reserved for static uplink SRS, these will be limited to the uplink slots of the TDD frame.  The signal source will be programmed to send simulated SRS signals in a subset of those resources.  The O-RU should receive this SRS signals and pass them through to the CUSM emulator using U-Plane messages.  Note, there will be no C-Plane messages sent from the CUSM emulator and the O-RU.  The signal generator will signal power levels at least 30 dB above Reference Sensitivity power Level described in TS 138.141-1 Table 7.2.5-1.  This is to improve the likelihood that all data will be received by the radio correctly since we are not interested in testing receiver sensitivity but only the O-RAN protocol compliance.  The placement of the time frequency resources is not specified in this test so it may be placed in any uplink slots of the TDD frame.

The TER (Test Equipment, O-RU) generates an uplink SRS signal on the antenna connector or TAB connector. The TER will capture the U-Plane messages generated by the DUT and validate whether the payload matches the uplink signal as well as beam characteristics. The metric used to validate that the signal received by the CUSM emulator matches the signal sent by the signal generator will be EVM as described in Annex H.7 of ETSI TS 138.141.  While some 3GPP test documents (e.g.  ETSI TS 138.521 clause 6.4.2.1.3) suggest treating the EVM requirements for physical Zadoff-Chu sequences such as PRACH the same as QPSK for EVM requirements, this document will decrease the required EVM to the level specified for 64 QAM.  The purpose of this is to ensure that there is no chance of false positives where a random, mistaken signal sent by the O-RU closely mimics the test signal used by the TER.  Since there are no impairments made to the uplink SRS signal this should be well within the capabilities of the O-RU.

Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4 for FR2 of this document.  The O-RU must indicate is supports static SRS allocation. The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth for FR1 and 120 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth for FR2.  It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors. Note this signal may be changed to any of the 3GPP sensitivity test signals in ETSI TS 138.141-1 if the radio does not support the numerology and bandwidth used in this test.  The test signal described in this section will be used if the radio supports that numerology and bandwidth.

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.  Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna port and configure the source to transmit the required SRS test signal upon receiving a trigger signal from the CUSM-E.  The signal source power level should be adjusted to at least 30 dB above the setting used in the 3GPP receiver sensitivity test.

Implicit in this Initial set up is statically configuring O-RU with a section of time/frequency resources for statis SRS signals.

.

Procedure

- Build an SRS signal in the signal generator that fits in the preconfigured time frequency resources set in the initial configuration.
- Load the waveform into the signal source:
Configure signal source to play test waveforms on 10ms frame boundaries starting when it receives a trigger signal from the O-DU emulator that signals the start of a frame boundary.

Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul Messages

Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the Antenna port connected

TER will arrange U-Plane messages according to time and frequency

Start SRS waveform generation on the signal generator. Ensure the test frame is repeated enough times to generate a statistically significant number of SRS occasions. That is at least 10 occasions.

Extract IQ information

Calculate EVM of the SRS signal received by the CUSM emulator to the ideal signal generated by the signal source. Use the method described in  ETSI TS 138.141 Annex H.7 to perform the calculation.

Test Requirement (expected result)

The verdict is “Test pass” if the calculated EVM is less than 8% as median EVM measured over the minimum number of SRS occasions of at least 10 occasions.

If any of the test conditions are not true, the verdict for the whole test is "Fail"

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the O-RU can support static PRACH configuration through the M-Plane.  This is an uplink only test so there is no corresponding downlink test for downlink slots.  The O-RU must report through the M-Plane that it supports static configuration of PRACH.  The concept is to repeat the spirit of test 3.2.3.8.1 (5GNR  PRACH test) without sending any C-Plane type 3 messages and configuring the O-RU using only the M-Plane.

TER will setup the signal generator with a PRACH test waveform according to  ETSI TS 138.141-1 clause 8.4.1 and A.6. The test waveform will contain the same preamble ID repeated by following the timing offset scheme specified in the figures 8.4.1.4.2-2 or 8.4.1.4.2-3  ETSI TS 138.141-1 depending on the selected PRACH format.

This is an example for FR1 – SCS=30 kHz – BW=100MHz – Format A3 configuration index 132 (From Table 6.3.3.2-3, unpaired spectrum), at each occasion the time offset of the same preamble index (selected according to table A.6-1  ETSI TS 138.141.1) is incremented by 100nsec starting from 0 up to 800nsec (9 occasions per frame). Each PRACH occasion is at the beginning of the first nine used sub-frames. The scheme is repeated every frame. The test must be conducted using a PRACH format and configuration index the radio has reported it supports

According to the PRACH waveform setting, the TER will generate a corresponding sequence of M-Plane messages which include the following parameters (According to the M-Plane specification and the PRACH configuration index supported):

grouping static-prach-configuration

leaf pattern-period - "Period after which static PRACH patterns are repeated. Unit: number of frames."

leaf guard-tone-low-re - "Number of REs occupied by the low guard tones."

leaf num-prach-re - "Number of contiguous PRBs per data section description“

leaf guard-tone-high-re - "Number of REs occupied by the high guard tones.“

leaf sequence-duration - "Duration of single sequence of the PRACH. Sequence may be considered as 'single PRACH symbol’”

list prach-patterns - key prach-pattern-id - "Provides a PRACH pattern. Each record in the list represents a single PRACH occasion. Number of list entries cannot exceed max-prach-patterns“

leaf prach-pattern-id - "Supplementary parameter acting as key for prach-pattern list.“

leaf number-of-repetitions - "This parameter defines number of PRACH repetitions in PRACH occasion, to which the section control is applicable

leaf number-of-occasions - "This parameter informs how many consecutive PRACH occasions is described by the PRACH Pattern”

leaf re-offset – “Offset between the start of the lowest-frequency RE of the lowest frequency PRB and the start of the lowest frequency RE belonging to the PRACH occasion.  The re-offset is configured as number of PRACH REs.

list occasion-parameters – “list of cp-lengths, gp-lengths and beam-ids applicable per each PRACH occasion in PRACH pattern. NOTE: the number of records in this list MUST be equal to value of parameter number-of-occasions.“

leaf occasion-id - "Supplementary parameter acting as key in 'occasion-parameters' list“

leaf cp-length - "Cyclic prefix length. See CUS-Plane specification for detailed description.“

leaf gp-length - "Guard period length.“

leaf beam-id  - "This parameter defines the beam pattern to be applied to the U-Plane data. beamId = 0 means no beamforming operation will be performed."

leaf frame-number - "This parameter is an index inside the pattern-length, such that PRACH occasion is happening for SFN which fulfills following equation: [SFN mod pattern-length = frame-id]“

leaf sub-frame-id - "Identifier of sub-frame of the PRACH occasion. Value is interpreted in the same way as subframeId field in a section description of a C-Plane message.“

leaf time-offset - "This parameter defines the time-offset from the start of the sub-frame to the start of the first Cyclic Prefix of PRACH pattern"

By the corresponding U-Plane messages in the uplink direction, the TER will try to detect the presence of the corresponding preamble at the expected timing offset and calculate the probability of detection Pd according to the definition in TS38.141-1 clause 8.4.1.1.

The signal will be exercised at only one O-RU port without adding any external AWGN power level or multipath fading profile and at a power level avoiding detection errors due to poor SNR (rule described in the sub-section C of this scenario class).

The test will have the CUSM emulator configure the O-RU, through the M-Plane, with a section of time/frequency resources reserved for static uplink PRACH.  The default is the PRACH configuration described in 3GPP above, but the test may be conducted with changes if the radio does not support those exact configurations.  The signal source will be programmed to send simulated PRACH signals in those resources.  The O-RU should receive this PRACH signal and pass them through to the CUSM emulator using U-Plane messages.  Note, there will be no C-Plane messages sent from the CUSM emulator and the O-RU.

Test Entrance Criteria

O-RU must have a conducted antenna port (FR1) or TAB connector.

By the M-plane or by manufacturer declaration, TER will detect all the supported SCSs, FFT sizes and carrier bandwidths by the O-RU. It is assumed that only one combination of the three above parameters supported by the O-RU is enough to validate the test. TER shall generate M-Plane messages according to one of the PRACH formats in table A.6-1  ETSI TS 138.141. TER will choose the format either according to the manufacturer declaration item D.103 “PRACH format and SCS” in  ETSI TS 138.141-1 or according to the format information obtained by the M-plane in case O-RU implements this feature. If more formats are claimed, only one shall be selected to reduce the test time, preference will be given to a format specified in Table A.6.1  ETSI TS 138.141. It is assumed that the O-RU manufacturer will support at least one in that table. For the case of long preambles, it is assumed format 0 is always supported since this is the only one shown in the table A.6-1  ETSI TS 138.141.

Test Methodology

a: Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.  Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna port and configure the source to transmit the required PRACH test signal upon receiving a trigger signal from the CUSM-E.

Implicit in this Initial set up is statically configuring O-RU with a section of time/frequency resources for static PRACH signals.

b: Procedure

- Set signal generator power by the following method:
Select SNR from the scenario with two RX antennas and AWGN propagation condition in table 8.4.1.5-1, 8.4.1.5-2 or 8.4.1.5-3  ETSI TS 138.141-1 depending on the selected SCS and PRACH format.

Select the AWGN power level according to the configured SCS and channel bandwidth in table 8.4.1.4.2-1  ETSI TS 138.141-1 and 38.141-1and multiply by the PRACH signal bandwidth.

The output power will be given by the formula (SNR+Noise power – 3dB) rounded to the first decimal digit. Extra 3dB are to compensate that SNR and noise power are selected from the two RX ports test case and this test procedure requires only one O-RU port.

For example, for the FR1 – SCS=30 kHz – BW=100MHz – Format A3 SNR is -13.5dB and noise level is -70.1dBm/98.28MHz. signal generator power = -13.5dB -70.1dBm/98.28MHz*(139*30 kHz)-3dB =-19.5dBm.

- Set signal generator frequency offset to the central carrier frequency. PRACH will be mapped over frequency according to msg1-FrequencyStart () parameter equal to 0. PRACH format is set according to what TER has selected from the manufacturer declarations.
- Start PRACH waveform generation on the signal generator.  Ensure the test frame is repeated enough times to generate a statistically significant number of PRACH occasions.  That is at least 10 occasions.
- TER will perform PRACH detection per each PRACH occasion in each frame sent and compare the result with the expected preamble ID and the expected timing offset. Since the external AWGN and fading generator are not present the time error tolerance should be low, TER will use the time error tolerance in table 8.4.1.1-1 for AWGN case according to the corresponding PRACH format and PRACH SCS. A counter of successful detections is incremented at every matching. The probability of detection is given by the ratio between that counter and the number of the expected received PRACH occasions within the test time.
- Repeat the test procedure by setting msg1-FrequencyStart () parameter to the right edge of the configured carrier bandwidth in order to exercise a different frequency offset number
Test Requirement (expected result)

- Test is pass if the probability of detection is 100% determined across the minimum amount of at least 10 occasions.
Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to validate the capability of the O-RU to correctly interpret section extension 13, frequency hopping, for the uplink.  Note, since frequency hopping is only used in uplink in 5G NR this test will be   limited to the uplink slots of the basic TDD signal.

Using the standard TDD test frame described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4  for FR2 the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink and uplink the specified signal using section extension 13 in just the uplink downlink.  The downlink portion of the test is not part of this test and may be any signal or no downlink signal at all.

In this test stock data section definition C will be used to exercise the non-contiguous RB allocation, all 273 PRBs (48 of the 51 in the uplink slots) or the max number of PRBs per symbol for the highest numerology the radio supports will be used in this test.

Only one spatial stream on one antenna will be used.  This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required).  All uplink user data will be a PN23 sequence.

Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4  for FR2 of this document.  The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 and 120 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz bandwidth as described in clause 3.2.1.1.4 for FR2.  It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors.

The radio must support section extension 13 as notified by the M-Plane.  The signal analyzer must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel.

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.  Connect the signal analyzer to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.  Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna port and configure it as described below.

Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal as described above in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4 for FR2 in the CUSM emulator. In this case use a PN23 sequence for the downlink shared channel.  Build the appropriate test frame (uplink slots) for the signal source. Use the CUSM emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the uplink and downlink signals. Every symbol used in the test should be described by a single section (DL-SCH that are used for the test, DMRS and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.  Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages for downlink slots only. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1.  Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.  It will be the responsibility of the TER’s signal analyzer and source to coordinate downlink and uplink TDD transmissions.  The CUSM Emulator of the TER is responsible for receiving uplink U-Plane messages, extracting IQ and decoding it to bits which can be compared to those sent by the signal source.

For the downlink slots and symbols: Any signal may be used if needed by the TER or no downlink signal may be used.

For the uplink sections and symbols: Load uplink test waveform (G-FR1-A1-5: SCS30k_51RB for FR1 or G-FR2-A3-1: SCS120k_66RB for FR2) on the RF signal source.  Note this signal should contain a new PN23 sequence as user data in PRBs 0 through 50 for symbol 6 and PRBs 100 through 151 for symbol 7.  This will be copied for all uplink slots. The remainder of the test waveform is as described in 3GPP.  Configure signal source to play test waveforms on 10ms frame boundaries starting when it receives a trigger signal from the O-DU emulator that C-Plane messages have been sent.  Load a C-Plane message on Test Equipment O-RU (TER) – Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane message that describes this uplink signal. This section should have startSymbolId = 6, numPrbc = 51, and section extension 13 attached.  The section extension should have nextSymbolId = 7 and nextStartPrbc = 100.

Steps:

Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul Messages

Launch test to play the C-Plane messages and the downlink U-Plane messages (if needed) and trigger the source to play the RF signal on a frame boundary.

Play messages to the O-RU respecting the timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1.  Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the frame.

Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the Antenna port

Extract IQ information from the captured U-Plane messages

Extract IQ information from the signal analyzer for downlink slots (if needed)

Extract Payload for both signals

Compare payload binary sequences

Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal extracted by the U-Plane messages (uplink) should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The verdict is “Test pass” if the test frame received by the signal analyzer contains two U-Plane messages for this section ID one containing the PN23 sequence for the first 51 PRBs in symbol 6 and PRBs 100 through 151 for symbol #7 containing the PN23 sequence sent by the signal source for those PRBs.

This clause describes the beamforming conformance testing for O-RAN fronthaul interface. The tests do not aim to test the O-RU beamforming performance or capabilities but to test that the O-RU under test focuses the RF energy or sensitivity into a specific direction and with a specific granularity following the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) C-Plane messages.

Unless stated otherwise in a test case, the following statements apply to all the test cases defined in this clause:

It is based on Over-the-Air (OTA) testing with a setup such as described in clause 2.1 and it may be applied to any O-RU DUTs, whether the O-RU DUTs have conducted antenna ports or TAB connectors or not.

Clause 3.2.1.1.2 for scenario #2 non-conducted OTA FDD FR1 radios contains a description of test setups, as mentioned by ETSI TS 137.843 defines various radiated test systems. If not explicitly mentioned, scenario #4 non-conducted OTA TDD tests for FR1 and FR2 radios will inherit those descriptions.

Additional statements as per clause 3.2.3.2 of the present specification regarding applicability for O-RU Categories, LTE/5G New Radio, Analog Beamforming, Digital Beamforming, and multiple polarizations.

For a O-RU DUT that support LTE:

Downlink tests will use a standard 3GPP E-TM1.1 test frame for TDD, based on uplink/downlink configuration 3 and special subframe configuration 8  (clause 6.1.1.1  ETSI TS 136.141) with 20MHz bandwidth (100 RB) as shown in Figure 3.2.6.2-1.

Figure 3.2.6.2-1 E-TM1.1 TDD 20 MHz 100RB

If 20MHz is not supported by the O-RU DUT, then it will use the highest bandwidth supported by the O-RU DUT.

Uplink test will use a standard 3GPP UL RMC Configuration definition for TDD (TS36.521-1 Annex A.2.3) and power levels at least 30dB above Reference Sensitivity power level with 20MHz bandwidth (100 RB) as shown in Figure 3.2.6.2-2.

Figure 3.2.6.2-2 UL RMC TDD 20 MHz 100 RB.  ETSI TS 136.521-1 A.2.3.1.1

If 20MHz is not supported by the O-RU DUT, then it will use the highest bandwidth supported by the O-RU DUT.

For O-RU DUT that support 5G NR:

NR FR1 test models described in  ETSI TS 138.141-1 are also applicable for BS type 1-O conformance testing. FR1 TDD downlink tests will use a standard 3GPP NR-FR1-TM1.1 test frame for TDD.

FR2 TDD downlink tests will use a standard 3GPP NR-FR2-TM1.1 test frame for TDD in (clause 4.9.2  ETSI TS 138.141-2) of the Radiated Transmitter Characteristic Test (clause 6  ETSI TS 138.141-2) as described in clause 3.2.1.1. The test numerology will be preferably 120kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth, or lower depending on DUT capability. If not supported, then it will use any other supported subcarrier spacing and the highest bandwidth of the O-RU DUT.

NR FR1 test models described in  ETSI TS 138.141-1 are also applicable for BS type 1-O conformance testing. FR1 TDD uplink tests will use a standard 3GPP G-FR1_A1-5_SCS30kHz_51RB test frame for TDD.

FR2 TDD uplink tests will use a standard 3GPP Reference Sensitivity level definition (clause 7.2 and Annex A  ETSI TS 138.141-2) of the Radiated Receiver Characteristic Test (clause 7  ETSI TS 138.141-2). The O-RU manufacturer declares a minimum EIS level for the considered OTA sensitivity direction declaration. The power levels inclining from the angle of arrival that should be tested (RoAoA) is at least 30dB above the OSDD EIS Reference Sensitivity power level. The test numerology will be preferably 120kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth based on G-FR2-A1-3 in  ETSI TS 138.141-2,  or lower depending on DUT capability. Otherwise, it will use any available subcarrier spacing and the highest bandwidth supported by the O-RU DUT.

Radiated tests coordinate system is based on the coordinate system defined in O-RAN CUS Specification [2], clause 12.5.2.

The O-RU DUT must:

support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.2 of this document.

have installed current release of shipping software.

be fully calibrated up to Radiated Interface Boundary (RIB) as defined in ETSI TS 138.141-2. It is expected to be calibrated by O-RU vendor prior to testing.

The TER must:

be capable of carrying out any signal processing required to generate and demodulate 3GPP compliant waveforms.

be able to calculate or extract the spherical beam direction via OTA measurements.

be able to generate and deliver signals with the required beam direction at the RIB point.

be fully calibrated up to the interface where it interacts with the DUT’s RIB. For that, a known test signal might be either injected by the TER into the O-RU DUT, or internally generated by the O-RU DUT, and the O-RU DUT must not apply any digital or analog beam forming to apply a directional characteristic to the known test signal.  One possible method to perform calibration uses injected C-Plane and U-Plane signals from TER into the O-RU and using C-Plane messages with beamID=0.  Alternatively, calibration methods for radiated test setups that are described in ETSI TR 137.941 can be used.

The O-DU emulator of the TER requirements as per clause 3.2.3.2 of the present specification.

The TER might have a single test antenna if a single beam direction and polarization is measured and an optional positioning method to perform directional radiation measurements sequentially, or multiple test antennas to perform directional radiation measurements and/or polarizations at the same time.

It is up to the TER on how to extract the beam direction and beam properties at the DUT’s RIB in order to match it with the manufacturer’s declaration.

The user payload will be generated as PN23 with a seed of all ones.

It applies to the O-RAN CUS Specification [2] as per clause 3.2.3.2 of the present specification.

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit a basic 3GPP test frame with no beamforming (beamId=0x000) and with one spatial stream (single eAxC).

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

Manufacturers’ declaration that defines list of beam directions when O-RU DUT is operating with no beamforming. This list serves as indication of the expected transmitted beam direction in below evaluation.

C.	Test Methodology

a.	Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Ensure that the test antenna/s and TER equipment is calibrated within acceptable tolerance.

Place the test antenna/s to a defined position within the OTA chamber as defined in clause 3.2.1.1.4 and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

Place the O-RU into a test calibrated point within the OTA chamber as defined in clause 3.2.1.1.4.

Align the O-RU to a default initial position, i.e. align the O-RU to the origin of coordinates of the declared coordinate reference point and orientation in the OTA chamber as defined in clause 3.2.1.1.4.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

b.	Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 or NR-FR2-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator.

Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by either one or two  sections (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.

Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.3.2.1.1.4.

Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.

Measure any metric/s that allows for extracting the transmitted beam direction from a single measurement, i.e. transform-based techniques, or take as many measurements of any metric/s from multiple angles, by for example rotating the O-RU, that allows for extracting beam direction from multiple measurement, i.e. beam scanning.

D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured by the signal analyzer at the contemplated transmitted beam direction should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received at the contemplated transmitted beam direction by the signal analyzer should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data.

The extracted or measured beam direction is defined as the direction where the best metric/s were measured (i.e. best EVM, power, SNR, etc.) and should match the expected transmitted beam direction for the expected no beamforming within a tolerance defined by the manufacturer.

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can receive a basic 3GPP test frame with no beamforming (beamId=0x000) and with one spatial stream (single eAxC).

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

Manufacturers’ declaration that defines list of beam directions when O-RU DUT is operating with no beamforming. This list serves as indication of the expected receive beam direction in below evaluation.

C.	Test Methodology

a.	Initial Conditions

Initial conditions as per clause 3.2.6.2.1 of the present specification

b.	Procedure

Build an appropriate test signal described above in the signal source of the TER.

Inject the test signal into the O-RU with the application of an initial beam direction. This initial beam direction could be the boresight direction of the receiver antenna array, corresponding to the manufacturers declaration of the expected receive direction.

Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by either one or two  sections (UL-SCH) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.

Play the C plane messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.3.2.1.1.4 while also triggering the signal source.

Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the DUT, allow it to create and send the U plane messages to the O-DU.

Allow the O-DU to demodulate, decode and extract the payload and to measure and extract any required metric/s from the received signal that will be used later to determine what is the best received direction.

Repeat the previous steps but now in step b apply a different beam direction when injecting the test signal into the O-RU. Repeating the process for a number of different beam directions will exercise the reception of the test signal from different receive beam directions. This allows to determine if the O-RU is really focusing the sensitivity to the correct expected receive beam direction.

D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

The test frame received at the contemplated receive beam direction by the TER/O-DU should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data.

The extracted or measured receive beam direction is defined as the direction where the best metric/s were measured (i.e. best EVM, power, SNR, etc.) and should match the expected receive beam direction for the expected no beamforming within a tolerance defined by the manufacturer.

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit a basic 3GPP test frame with predefined-beams beamforming (beamId≠0x000) and with one spatial stream (single eAxC).

The transmitted beam direction is measured for each indexed beam required in this measurement, see below. The measured transmitted direction is compared to manufacturer-designated direction. Transmitted beam direction is defined by extracting the beam direction from directional measurement samples.

Depending on the O-RU beamforming capabilities regarding the ability to generate “coarse”, “fine” and/or “beam groups”, as defined in O-RAN CUS Specification [2], clause 12.4.2.2.

The elevation θ and azimuth Φ angles are defined in O-RAN CUS Specification [2], clause 12.4.2.2.

The UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Predefined-beam Beamforming conformance test might include multiple test that the O-RU must comply:

“Coarse” beamIds test:

If O-RU supports and reports beamIds that are defined as coarse granularity (coarse beamIds) to the O-DU emulator, the test should include the following beams:

A coarse beam with 0 degrees azimuth (Φ) and elevation (θ) angles.

A coarse beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ).

A coarse beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ).

A coarse beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ).

A coarse beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ).

If the O-RU only supports one azimuth (Φ) or elevation angle (θ), fewer than 5 beam angles will be measured.

“Fine” beamIds test:

If O-RU supports and reports beamIds that are defined as fine granularity (fine beamIds) to the O-DU emulator, the test should include the following beams:

A fine beam with 0 degrees azimuth (Φ) and elevation (θ) angles.

A fine beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ).

A fine beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ).

A fine beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ).

A fine beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ).

If the O-RU only supports one azimuth or elevation angle, fewer than 5 beam angles will be measured.

“beam-group” beamIds test:

If O-RU supports and reports beamIds that belong to same and different beam-groups to the O-DU emulator, the test should include the following beams:

All beams that belong to a beam-group with 0 degrees azimuth (Φ) or elevation (θ) angles.

All beams that belong to a beam-group with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ).

All beams that belong to a beam-group with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ).

All beams that belong to a beam-group with maximum supported elevation angle (θ).

All beams that belong to a beam-group with minimum supported elevation angle (θ).

If the O-RU only supports one azimuth or elevation angle, fewer than 5 beam-groups will be measured.

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

Manufacturers’ defined list of beam indices and their associated beam directions with antenna array characteristics. This list serves as indication of the expected transmitted beam direction in below evaluation.

C.	Test Methodology

a.	Initial Conditions

Initial conditions as per clause 3.2.6.2.1 of the present specification.

b.	Procedure

Procedure as per clause 3.2.6.2.1 of the present specification.

D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

Test Requirement as per clause 3.2.6.2.1 of the present specification .

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL mandatory.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can receive a basic 3GPP test frame with predefined-beams beamforming (beamId≠0x000) and with one spatial stream (single eAxC).

The same description and criteria for selecting the beams to be tested applies as in clause 3.2.6.2.3 applies, but instead it is related to the uplink direction.

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

Manufacturers’ defined list of beam indices and their associated beam directions with antenna array characteristics. This list serves as indication of the expected receive beam direction in below evaluation.

C.	Test Methodology

a.	Initial Conditions

Initial conditions as per clause 3.2.6.2.2 of the present specification

b.	Procedure

Procedure as per clause 3.2.6.2.2 of the present specification

D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

Test Requirement as per Section 3.2.6.2.2 of the present specification

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit a basic 3GPP test frame with weight-based dynamic beamforming with one spatial stream (single eAxC).

The transmitted beam direction is measured for each weighted beam required in this measurement, see below. The measured transmitted direction is compared to manufacturer-designated direction. Transmitted beam direction is obtained by directly extracting the beam direction from the directional samples.

The elevation θ and azimuth Φ angles are defined in O-RAN CUS Specification [2], clause 12.4.2.2.

The UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Weight-based Dynamic Beamforming conformance test should evaluate the following beams for the O-RU to comply:

A weight-based beam with 0 degrees azimuth (Φ) and elevation (θ) angles.

A weight-based beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ).

A weight-based beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ).

A weight-based beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ).

A weight-based beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ).

If the O-RU only supports one azimuth (Φ) or elevation angle (θ), fewer than 5 beam angles will be measured.

The user/tester selects the bitwidth for the mantissa or scaler of the compression method applied to the beams.

The UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Weight—based Dynamic Beamforming conformance test should also evaluate the following compression methods for each of the supported beams described above (a. to e.) for the O-RU to comply:

No compression method applied to the beamforming weights.

Block floating point compression method applied to the beamforming weights with the selected number of bit mantissa.

Block scaling compression method applied to the beamforming weights with the selected number of bit scaler.

μ-law compression method applied to the beamforming weights with the selected number of bit fixed width.

Beamspace compression method applied to the beamforming weights with the selected number of bit scaler.

If the O-RU does not support all the compression methods described above, fewer than 5 compression methods will be measured.

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

Manufacturers’ defined list of frequency domain (ϕ) and/or time domain (θ) weights and their associated beam directions with antenna array characteristics

C.	Test Methodology

a.	Initial Conditions

Initial conditions as per clause 3.2.6.2.1 of the present specification

b.	Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal as per clause 3.2.6.2.1 of the present specification.

Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by one or two sections (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages, the sections in the first symbol of the slot will contain section extension extType=0x01 to convey the beam weights, it is not required that the next sections contain extension type 1 since the same beam IDs will not change along the slot. If O-RU does not support a field, then its value should be 0x0. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.

Perform additional procedure steps c, d, and e as per clause 3.2.6.2.1 of the present specification.

D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

Test Requirement as per Section 3.2.6.2.1 of the present specification

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can receive a basic 3GPP test frame with weight-based beamforming and with one spatial stream (single eAxC).

The same description and criteria for selecting the beams to be tested applies as in clause 3.2.3.2.5 but applies to the uplink direction.

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

Manufacturers’ defined list of frequency domain (ϕ) and/or time domain (θ) weights and their associated beam directions with antenna array characteristics.

C.	Test Methodology

a.	Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Ensure that the test antenna/s and TER equipment is calibrated within acceptable tolerance.

Place the test antenna/s to a defined position within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.3.2.1.1.4 and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

Place the O-RU into a test calibrated point within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.3.2.1.1.4.

Align the O-RU to a default initial position, i.e. align the O-RU to the origin of coordinates of the declared coordinate reference point and orientation in the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.3.2.1.1.4.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

b.	Procedure

Build an appropriate test signal related to either FR1 or FR2 described above in the signal source of the TER.

Inject the test signal into the O-RU with the application of an initial beam direction as fulfilling the expected spherical  RoAoA .For example, initial beam direction could be the boresight of the receive antenna array.

Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by one or two sections (UL-SCH) using Section Type 1 messages, the sections in the first symbol of the slot will contain section extension extType=0x01 to convey the beam weights, it is not required that the next sections contain extension type 1 since the same beam IDs will not change along the slot. If O-RU does not support a field, then its value should be 0x0. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.

Play the C plane messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. while also triggering the signal source.

Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the DUT, allow it to create and send the U plane messages to the O-DU and for the O-DU to demodulate, decode and extract the payload.

Repeat the previous steps but now in step b apply a different inclining beam direction or RoAoA. For example, repeating the process for a number of different beam directions. This allows to determine if the O-RU is really focusing the sensitivity to the correct beam direction.

D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

Test Requirement as per clause 3.2.6.2.2 of the present specification.

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit a basic 3GPP test frame with attributed-based dynamic beamforming with one spatial stream (single eAxC).

If the O-RU DUT supports Attribute based Dynamic Beamforming, this test is mandatory for the O-RU DUT to be O-RAN conformant.

The transmitted beam direction and attributes are measured for each attributed beam required in this measurement, see below. The measured transmitted direction and attributes, i.e. pointing azimuth and elevation angles, beamwidths and sidelobe suppression, is compared to manufacturer-designated direction and attributes. Transmitted direction and beam attributes are defined by the magnitude and phase relation between the antenna ports or TAB connectors under test, or by directly extracting the beam properties.

The elevation θ and azimuth Φ angles are defined in O-RAN CUS Specification [2], clause 12.4.2.2.

The UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Attribute-based Dynamic Beamforming conformance test should evaluate the following beams for the O-RU to comply:

An attribute-based beam with 0 degrees azimuth (Φ) and elevation (θ) angles with any beamwidth and sidelobe suppression supported by the O-RU under this beam direction.

An attribute-based beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ) with the widest beamwidth and lowest sidelobe suppression supported for this specific beam direction.

An attribute-based beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ) with the narrowest beamwidth and highest sidelobe suppression supported for this specific beam direction.

An attribute-based beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ) with the widest beamwidth and lowest sidelobe suppression supported for this specific beam direction.

An attribute-based beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ) with the narrowest beamwidth and highest sidelobe suppression supported for this specific beam direction.

If the O-RU only supports one azimuth (Φ) or elevation angle (θ), fewer than 5 beam angles and attribute configurations will be measured.

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

Manufacturers’ defined list of frequency domain (ϕ) and/or time domain (θ) weights and their associated beam directions with antenna array characteristics.

C.	Test Methodology

a.	Initial Conditions

Initial conditions as per clause 3.2.6.2.1 of the present specification.

b.	Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 or NR-FR2-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator.

Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by one or two sections (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages, the sections in the first symbol of the slot will contain section extension extType=0x02 to convey the beam weights, it is not required that the next sections contain extension type 2 since the same beam IDs will not change along the slot.  If O-RU does not support a field, then its value should be 0x0. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.

- Perform steps c, d, and e as per clause 3.2.6.2.1 of the present specification.
D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

Test Requirement as per clause 3.2.6.2.1 of the present specification.

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can receive a basic 3GPP test frame with attribute-based beamforming with one spatial stream (single eAxC).

Same description and criteria for selecting the beams to be tested applies as in clause 3.2.3.2.7 but considering uplink direction.

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

Manufacturers’ defined list of frequency domain (ϕ) and/or time domain (θ) weights and their associated beam directions with antenna array characteristics.

C.	Test Methodology

a.	Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Ensure that the test antenna/s and TER equipment is calibrated within acceptable tolerance.

Place the test antenna/s to a defined position within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.3.2.1.1.4 and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

Place the O-RU into a test calibrated point within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.3.2.1.1.4.

Align the O-RU to a default initial position, i.e. align the O-RU to the origin of coordinates of the declared coordinate reference point and orientation in the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.3.2.1.1.4.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

b.	Procedure

Build an appropriate test signal either related to FR1 or FR2, described above in the signal source of the TER.

Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by one or two sections (UL-SCH) using Section Type 1 messages, the sections in the first symbol of the slot will contain section extension extType=0x02 to convey the beam weights, it is not required that the next sections contain extension type 2 since the same beam IDs will not change along the slot. If O-RU does not support a field, then its value should be 0x0. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.

Play the C plane messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in section 3.2.1.1.1. while also triggering the signal source.

Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the DUT, allow it to create and send the U plane messages to the O-DU and for the O-DU to demodulate, decode and extract the payload.

Repeat the previous steps but now in step b apply a different inclining beam direction or RoAoA. For example, repeating the process for a number of different beam directions. This allows the tester to determine if the O-RU is really focusing the sensitivity to the correct beam direction.

D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

The test frame received by the TER/O-DU should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data.

The extracted or measured receive beam direction is defined as the direction where the best metric/s were measured (i.e. best EVM, power, SNR, etc.) and should match the expected receive beam direction for the beam under test within a tolerance defined by the manufacturer

Test Description and Applicability

This Test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit a basic 3GPP test frame with channel-information-based beamforming with multiple spatial streams from multiple users (i.e. MU-MIMO).

For Category A radios, the test is for each polarization separately and consequently either different or same channel models can be defined for each of the polarization. For Category B, same channel might be used for both polarizations and the test might measure each polarization separately.

The transmitted beam direction is measured for each scenario required in this measurement.  The measured transmitted direction is extracted from the decoded received signal in the TER. Transmitted direction is defined by properly receiving a data transmission between the O-RU and the target User Equipment while destroying or heavily attenuating the data transmission between the O-RU and the other User Equipment.

The UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Channel-Information-based Beamforming conformance test should evaluate the following scenarios for the O-RU to comply and will rely on TER Channel Emulation capabilities as shown in Figure 3.2.6.2-3.

Figure 3.2.6.2-3 TER with antennas representing multiple UEs

A scenario where two spatial streams, or eAxC flows, are generated for two users (one layer each) with M antennas ports or TAB connectors. The O-DU will report to the O-RU via C plane messages the channel estimate , which is the effective channel as seen by the antennas representing the multiple UEs, which are spaced sufficiently such that the O-RU can effectively equalize out the interference between the users. The O-RU will calculate and apply the beamweight matrix  in such that the received signal at the users is the same as the generated in the O-DU. It is up to the O-RU on how to calculate the beamforming weights, for example Zero-forcing, regularized zero-forcing / MMSE, etc.

If O-RU supports Analog Beamforming (Time Domain Beamforming), the test should not apply any analog beamforming or time domain beamforming. In this case, M is not the number of antennas ports or TAB connectors but the number of TRX channels supported by the O-RU.

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must have at least two TRX chains with radiating antennas

The TER equipment must include 2 antennas with sufficient separation to emulate the 2 users such that the O-RU can equalize out the mutual interference of the users due to the effective MU-MIMO channel.

Manufacturers’ defined list of number of TRX chains and what antennas are connected to each TRX chain

C.	Test Methodology

a.	Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Ensure that the test antennas and TER equipment are calibrated within acceptable tolerance.

Place the test antennas within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.4  with sufficient separation for effective MU-MIMO beamforming and configure the analyzer ports with any setup information needed to synch and demodulate the MU-MIMO transmitted signal

Place the O-RU into a test calibrated point within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.4.

Align the O-RU to a default initial position, i.e. align the O-RU to the origin of coordinates of the declared coordinate reference point and orientation in the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.4.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

b.	Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator, with the data symbols for user 1 and user 2 fully overlapping in time and frequency, but with user data initialized using different seeds for the PN23 sequence.

Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the scenario under test. Every symbol should be described by either one or two  sections (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 5 and 6 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.

Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1.

Capture the test signals and pass them through a channel emulator or apply the signal processing required to emulate the channel under test using the 2 test antennas.

Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyzer and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frames for the 2 users.

D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured by the signal analyzer should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received by the signal analyzer for the 2 users should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the respective  PN23 data.

Test Description and Applicability

This Test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can receive a basic 3GPP test frame with channel-information-based beamforming with multiple spatial streams from multiple users (i.e. MU-MIMO).

Same description and criteria for selecting the beams to be tested applies as in clause 3.2.3.2.103.2.6.2.9 but considering the uplink direction.

B.	Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU must have at least two TRX chains with radiating sensing antennas

The TER equipment must include 2 antennas with sufficient separation to emulate the 2 users such that the O-RU can equalize out the mutual interference of the users due to the effective MU-MIMO channel.

The O-RU must have at least two TRX chains with conducted antenna ports (or TAB connectors) to be connected to a signal generator.

The TER equipment must include 2 antennas with sufficient separation to emulate the 2 users the O-RU need to be able to equalize out the mutual interference of the users due to the effective MU-MIMO channel. Manufacturers’ defined list of number of TRX chains and what antennas are connected to each TRX chain.

C.	Test Methodology

a.	Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

Ensure that the test antennas and TER equipment are calibrated within acceptable tolerance.

Place the test antennas within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.4 with sufficient separation for effective MU-MIMO beamforming and configure the generator ports with any setup information needed to transmit the signals from the 2 UEs

Place the O-RU into a test calibrated point within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.4.

Align the O-RU to a default initial position, i.e. align the O-RU to the origin of coordinates of the declared coordinate reference point and orientation in the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.4.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

b.	Procedure

Build the appropriate test signals for each of the 2 users as described above in the signal source of the TER using a different seed to initialize the PN23 data for each user.

Transmit the test signals over the air with sufficient transmit power according to  3.2.1.1.4

Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by either one or two  sections (UL-SCH) using Section Type 5 and 6. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.

Play the C plane messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 2.4. while also triggering the signal source.

Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the DUT, allow it to create and send the U-plane messages to the O-DU and for the O-DU to demodulate, decode and extract the payload for each of the users.

D.	Test Requirement (expected result)

The test frames received by the TER/O-DU should be the same as the signals described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data of the 2 users.

The compression tests for FR1 and FR2 TDD Non-conducted OTA are the same as the tests described in clause 3.2.5.3 for FR1.  For FR2, similar test frames with 120 kHz SCS shall be used in the test  Only the setup for the tests are different reflecting the difference between non-conductive and conductive mode testing.

The delay management tests for FR1 and FR2 TDD Non-conducted OTA are the same as the tests described in clause 3.2.5.4 for FR1.  For FR2, similar test frames with 120 kHz SCS shall be used in the test.  Only the setup for the tests are different reflecting the difference between non-conductive and conductive mode testing.

This test is for future study.

The LAA tests for FR1TDD Non-conducted OTA are the same as the tests described in clause 3.2.5.6.  Only the setup for the tests are different reflecting the difference between non-conductive and conductive mode testing.  Note that LAA tests are not applicable for the FR2 spectrum.

This test is for future study.

The Section Type 3 tests for FR1 and FR2 TDD Non-conducted OTA are the same as the tests described in clause 3.2.5.8 for FR1.  For FR2, similar test frames with 120 kHz SCS shall be used in the test.  Only the setup for the tests are different reflecting the difference between non-conductive and conductive mode testing.

#### C-Plane based TRX control

##### C-Plane based TRX Control (defined-duration sleep, guaranteed wake-up duration)

- The O-RU shall support the default parameters of at least one of the scenarios given below,

| Scenario | Default parameters |
| --- | --- |
| FR1 FDD Conducted-Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.1 |
| FR1 FDD Non-conducted OTA Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.2 |
| FR1 TDD Conducted Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.3 |
| FR1 TDD Non-conducted OTA Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.4 |

- The test numerology is 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in clause ETSI TS 138.141 -1 NR-FR1-TM1.1. If the O-RU does not support this numerology, any other numerology that the O-RU supports can be used.
- The O-RU shall have a conducted antenna port (or TAB connector) to be connected to a signal analyzer, if the O-RU capabilities matches scenario defined in clause 3.2.1.1.1 or clause 3.2.1.1.3.
Build an appropriate IQ signal  as described above in clause B. Test Entrance Criteria in the CUSM emulator.

Use the CUSM emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the scenario under test . The C-Plane processing and user traffic are enabled.

The TER measures the AC or DC power consumption of the O-RU using power meter.

The O-DU emulator enables energy savings by signalling Section Type 4 (st4CmdType = 3 for TRX_CONTROL) by setting “symbolMask” field to 0x3FFF to indicate all symbols in a slot made or kept inactive, “sleepMode” field to indicate sleep mode, “numSlots”, “numSlotsExt” field for defined-duration sleep and “antMask” field with "0" in each array element that is to be made or kept inactive.

NOTE: Defined-duration sleep needs to be greater than the double the wake-up duration. It is recommended to set longer sleep duration, allowing for the power consumption measurements to be made. It is recommended to set at least half of the array elements off (0 indicates off) in the antenna mask to better observe power changes.

The TER waits for a sufficient duration to ensure some or all of the O-RU’s antenna array elements have reached sleep condition, for example a duration greater than the wake-up duration. This ensures C-Plane processing and user traffic are disabled for some or all of the O-RU’s antenna array elements.

NOTE: Since go-to-sleep duration is unknown and wake-up duration includes go-to-sleep duration , this assures the power measurement is done after all of the O-RU’s antenna array elements have reached sleep condition.

The TER performs the DC or AC power consumption measurement with the power meter.

The power consumption should be smaller than the previous one measured in the step 3.

After defined-duration sleep expiry the C-Plane processing and user traffic are enabled. The TER performs the DC or AC power consumption measurement with the power meter.

The power consumption should be greater than the previous one measured in the step 6.

##### C-Plane based TRX Control (defined-duration sleep, minimum wake-up duration)

- The O-RU shall support the default parameters of at least one of the scenarios given below,

| Scenario | Default parameters |
| --- | --- |
| FR1 FDD Conducted-Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.1 |
| FR1 FDD Non-conducted OTA Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.2 |
| FR1 TDD Conducted Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.3 |
| FR1 TDD Non-conducted OTA Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.4 |

- The test numerology is 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in clause ETSI TS 138.141 -1 NR-FR1-TM1.1. If the O-RU does not support this numerology, any other numerology that the O-RU supports can be used.
- The O-RU shall have a conducted antenna port (or TAB connector) to be connected to a signal analyzer, if the O-RU capabilities matches scenario defined in clause 3.2.1.1.1 or clause 3.2.1.1.3.
Build an appropriate IQ signal as described above in clause B. Test Entrance Criteria in the CUSM emulator.

Use the CUSM emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the scenario under test. The C-Plane processing and user traffic are enabled.

The TER measures the AC or DC power consumption of the O-RU using power meter.

The O-DU emulator enables energy savings by signalling Section Type 4 (st4CmdType = 3 for TRX_CONTROL) by setting “symbolMask” field to 0x3FFF, “sleepMode” field to indicate sleep mode, “numSlots”, “numSlotsExt” field for defined-duration sleep and “antMask” field with "0" in each array element that is to be made or kept inactive.

NOTE: Defined-duration sleep needs to be greater than double the wake-up duration. It is recommended to set longer sleep duration, allowing for the power consumption measurements to be made. It is recommended to set at least half of the array elements off (0 indicates off) in the antenna mask to better observe power changes.

The TER waits for a sufficient duration to ensure some or all of the O-RU’s antenna array elements have reached sleep condition, for example a duration greater than the wake-up duration. This ensures C-Plane processing and user traffic are disabled for some or all of the O-RU’s antenna array elements.

NOTE:  Since go-to-sleep duration is unknown and wake-up duration includes go-to-sleep duration, this assures the power measurement is done after all of the O-RU’s antenna array elements have reached sleep condition.

The TER performs the DC or AC power consumption measurement with the power meter.

The power consumption should be smaller than the previous one measured in the step 3.

The O-RU sends a "ready" message to the O-DU emulator to indicate termination of sleep, by setting ready bit to 1 in Section Type 8 command.

After the slotId value mentioned in the Section Type 8 command , the C-Plane processing and user traffic are enabled. The TER performs the DC or AC power consumption measurement with the power meter.

The power consumption should be greater than the previous one measured in the step 6.

##### C-Plane based TRX Control (undefined-duration sleep, guaranteed wake-up duration)

- The O-RU shall support the default parameters of at least one of the scenarios given below,

| Scenario | Default parameters |
| --- | --- |
| FR1 FDD Conducted-Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.1 |
| FR1 FDD Non-conducted OTA Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.2 |
| FR1 TDD Conducted Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.3 |
| FR1 TDD Non-conducted OTA Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.4 |

- The test numerology is 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in clause ETSI TS 138.141 -1 NR-FR1-TM1.1. If the O-RU does not support this numerology, any other numerology that the O-RU supports can be used.
- The O-RU shall have a conducted antenna port (or TAB connector) to be connected to a signal analyzer, if the O-RU capabilities matches scenario defined in clause 3.2.1.1.1 or clause 3.2.1.1.3.
Build an appropriate IQ signal as described above in clause B. Test Entrance Criteria in the CUSM emulator.

Use the CUSM emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the scenario under test. The C-Plane processing and user traffic are enabled.

The TER measures the AC or DC power consumption of the O-RU using power meter.

The O-DU emulator enables energy savings by signalling Section Type 4 (st4CmdType = 3 for TRX_CONTROL) by setting “sleepMode" field to indicate sleep mode, “symbolMask” field to 0x3FFF to indicate all symbols in a slot made or kept inactive, “numSlots” and “numSlotsExt” fields to 0 to indicate undefined-duration sleep and “antMask” field to "0" in each array element that is to be made or kept inactive.

NOTE: It is recommended to set at least half of the array elements off (0 indicates off) in the antenna mask to better observe power changes.

The TER waits for a sufficient duration to ensure some or all of the O-RU’s antenna array elements have reached sleep condition, for example a duration greater than the wake-up duration. This ensures C-Plane processing and user traffic are disabled for some or all of the O-RU’s antenna array elements.

NOTE: Since go-to-sleep duration is unknown and wake-up duration includes go-to-sleep duration, this assures the power measurement is done after all of the O-RU’s antenna array elements have reached sleep condition.

The TER performs the DC or AC power consumption measurement with the power meter.

The power consumption should be smaller than the previous one measured in the step 3.

The O-DU emulator issues a wake-up command by signalling Section Type 4 (st4CmdType = 3 for TRX_CONTROL) by setting “sleepMode" field to indicate sleep mode, “symbolMask” field to 0x0000 to indicate all symbols in a slot made or kept active, “numSlots” and “numSlotsExt” fields to 0 to indicate undefined-duration sleep and “antMask” field to "1" in each array element that is to be made or kept active.

NOTE: It is recommended to issue wake-up command after a sufficient duration (for example greater than wake-up duration), allowing for the power consumption measurements to be made.

The TER waits for the time interval of wake-up duration.

The C-Plane processing and user traffic are enabled. The TER performs the DC or AC power consumption measurement with the power meter.

The power consumption should be greater than the previous one measured in the step 6.

##### C-Plane based TRX Control (undefined-duration sleep, minimum wake-up duration)

- The O-RU shall support the default parameters of at least one of the scenarios given below,

| Scenario | Default parameters |
| --- | --- |
| FR1 FDD Conducted-Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.1 |
| FR1 FDD Non-conducted OTA Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.2 |
| FR1 TDD Conducted Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.3 |
| FR1 TDD Non-conducted OTA Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.4 |

- The test numerology is 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in clause ETSI TS 138.141 -1 NR-FR1-TM1.1. If the O-RU does not support this numerology, any other numerology that the O-RU supports can be used.
- The O-RU shall have a conducted antenna port (or TAB connector) to be connected to a signal analyzer, if the O-RU capabilities matches scenario defined in clause 3.2.1.1.1 or clause 3.2.1.1.3
Build an appropriate IQ signal as described above in clause B. Test Entrance Criteria in the CUSM emulator.

Use the CUSM emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the scenario under test. The C-Plane processing and user traffic are enabled.

The TER measures the AC or DC power consumption of the O-RU using power meter.

The O-DU emulator enables energy savings by signalling Section Type 4 (st4CmdType = 3 for TRX_CONTROL) by setting “sleepMode” field to indicate sleep mode, “symbolMask” field to 0x3FFF to indicate all symbols in a slot made or kept inactive, “numSlots” and “numSlotsExt” fields to 0, to indicate undefined-duration sleep and “antMask” field to "0" in each array element that is to be made or kept inactive.

- NOTE: It is recommended to set at least half of the array elements off (0 indicates off) in the antenna mask to better observe power changes.
The TER waits for a sufficient duration to ensure some or all of the O-RU’s antenna array elements have reached sleep condition, for example a duration greater than the wake-up duration. This ensures C-Plane processing and user traffic are disabled for some or all of the O-RU’s antenna array elements.

NOTE: Since go-to-sleep duration is unknown and wake-up duration includes go-to-sleep duration, this assures the power measurement is done after all of the O-RU’s antenna array elements have reached sleep condition.

The TER performs the DC or AC power consumption measurement with the power meter.

The power consumption should be smaller than the previous one measured in the step 3.

The O-DU emulator issues a wake-up command by signalling Section Type 4 (st4CmdType = 3 for TRX_CONTROL) by setting “sleepMode" field to indicate sleep mode, “symbolMask” field to 0x0000 to indicate all symbols in a slot made or kept active, “numSlots” and “numSlotsExt” fields to 0 to indicate undefined duration sleep and “antMask” field to "1" in each array element that is to be made or kept active.

NOTE: It is recommended to issue wake-up command after a sufficient duration (for example greater than wake-up duration), allowing for the power consumption measurements to be made.

The O-RU sends a "ready" message to the O-DU emulator to indicate termination of sleep, by setting ready bit to 1 in Section Type 8 command.

After the slotId value mentioned in the Section Type 8 command, the C-Plane processing and user traffic are enabled. The TER performs the DC or AC power consumption measurement with the power meter.

The power consumption should be greater than the previous one measured in the step 6.

##### C-Plane based TRX Control (sleep extension)

- The O-RU shall support the default parameters of at least one of the scenarios given below,

| Scenario | Default parameters |
| --- | --- |
| FR1 FDD Conducted-Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.1 |
| FR1 FDD Non-conducted OTA Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.2 |
| FR1 TDD Conducted Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.3 |
| FR1 TDD Non-conducted OTA Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.4 |

- The test numerology is 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in clause 3GPP 38.141 -1 NR-FR1-TM1.1. If the O-RU does not support this numerology, any other numerology that the O-RU supports can be used.
- The O-RU shall have a conducted antenna port (or TAB connector) to be connected to a signal analyzer, if the O-RU capabilities matches scenario defined in clause 3.2.1.1.1 or clause 3.2.1.1.3.
Build an appropriate IQ signal as described above in clause B. Test Entrance Criteria in the CUSM emulator.

Use the CUSM emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the scenario under test. The C-Plane processing and user traffic are enabled.

The TER measures the AC or DC power consumption of the O-RU using power meter.

The O-DU emulator enables energy savings by signalling Section Type 4 (st4CmdType = 3 for TRX_CONTROL) by setting “symbolMask” field to 0x3FFF, “sleepMode” field to indicate sleep mode, “numSlots”, “numSlotsExt” field for defined-duration sleep and “antMask” field with "0" in each array element that is to be made or kept inactive.

NOTE: Defined-duration sleep needs to be greater than double the wake-up duration. It is recommended to set longer sleep duration, allowing for the power consumption measurements to be made. It is recommended to set at least half of the array elements off (0 indicates off) in the antenna mask to better observe power changes.

The TER waits for a sufficient duration to ensure some or all of the O-RU’s antenna array elements have reached sleep condition, for example a duration greater than the wake-up duration. This ensures C-Plane processing and user traffic are disabled for some or all of the O-RU’s antenna array elements.

NOTE: Since go-to-sleep duration is unknown and wake-up duration includes go-to-sleep duration, this assures the power measurement is done after all of the O-RU’s antenna array elements have reached sleep condition.

The TER performs the DC or AC power consumption measurement with the power meter.

The power consumption should be smaller than the previous one measured in the step 3.

At the start of wake-up duration, the O-DU emulator sends sleep extension command by signaling Section Type 4 (st4CmdType = 3 for TRX_CONTROL) by setting “symbolMask” field to 0x3FFF, “sleepMode” field ( any supported sleepMode other than sleep mode 0) for indicating sleep mode, “numSlots”, “numSlotsExt” field for defined-duration sleep and “antMask” field with "0" in each array element that is to be made or kept inactive.

NOTE: Defined-duration sleep needs to be greater than or equal to the wake-up duration. It is recommended to set longer sleep duration, allowing for the power consumption measurements to be made. It is recommended to set at least half of the array elements off (0 indicates off) in the antenna mask to better observe power changes.

The TER waits for a sufficient duration to ensure some or all of the O-RU’s antenna array elements have reached sleep condition, for example a duration greater than the wake-up duration. This ensures C-Plane processing and user traffic are disabled for some or all of the O-RU’s antenna array elements.

NOTE: Since go-to-sleep duration is unknown and wake-up duration includes go-to-sleep duration, this assures the power measurement is done after all of the O-RU’s antenna array elements have reached sleep condition.

The TER performs the DC or AC power consumption measurement with the power meter.

The power consumption should be smaller than the previous one measured in the step 3.

After defined-duration sleep expiry , the C-Plane processing and user traffic are enabled. The TER performs the DC or AC power consumption measurement with the power meter.

The power consumption should be greater than the previous one measured in the step 6 and step 10.

##### C-Plane based TRX Control (Emergency wake-up)

- The O-RU shall support the default parameters  of at least one of the scenarios given below,

| Scenario | Default parameters |
| --- | --- |
| FR1 FDD Conducted-Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.1 |
| FR1 FDD Non-conducted OTA Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.2 |
| FR1 TDD Conducted Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.3 |
| FR1 TDD Non-conducted OTA Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.4 |

- The test numerology is 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in clause 3GPP 38.141 -1 NR-FR1-TM1.1. If the O-RU does not support this numerology, any other numerology that the O-RU supports can be used.
- The O-RU shall have a conducted antenna port (or TAB connector) to be connected to a signal analyzer, if the O-RU capabilities matches scenario defined in clause 3.2.1.1.1 or clause 3.2.1.1.3.
Build an appropriate IQ signal  as described above in clause B. Test Entrance Criteria in the CUSM emulator.

Use the CUSM emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the scenario under test. The C-Plane processing and user traffic are enabled.

The TER measures the AC or DC power consumption of the O-RU using power meter.

The O-DU emulator enables energy savings by signalling Section Type 4 (st4CmdType = 3 for TRX_CONTROL) by setting “symbolMask” field to 0x3FFF, “sleepMode” field to indicate sleep mode, “numSlots”, “numSlotsExt” field for defined-duration sleep and “antMask” field with "0" in each array element that is to be made or kept inactive.

NOTE: Defined-duration sleep needs to be greater than the double the wake-up duration. It is recommended to set longer sleep duration, allowing for the power consumption measurements to be made. It is recommended to set at least half of the array elements off (0 indicates off) in the antenna mask to better observe power changes.

The TER waits for a sufficient duration to ensure some or all of the O-RU’s antenna array elements have reached sleep condition, for example a duration greater than the wake-up duration. This ensures C-Plane processing and user traffic are disabled for some or all of the O-RU’s antenna array elements.

NOTE: Since go-to-sleep duration is unknown and wake-up duration includes go-to-sleep duration, this assures the power measurement is done after all of the O-RU’s antenna array elements have reached sleep condition. The

TER performs the DC or AC power consumption measurement with the power meter.

The power consumption should be smaller than the previous one measured in the step 3.

The TER NETCONF client sends a <emergency-wake-up> rpc.

<rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="101">

<edit-config xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0">

<target>      		<running/>   </target>   <config>

</edit-config>

</rpc>

The O-RU NETCONF Server responds with a <rpc-reply> message indicating successful completion of requested procedure.

<rpc-reply xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="101">

<ok/>

</rpc-reply>

The TER NETCONF Client waits for emergency-wake-up-complete notification , to ensure wake up is complete, the C-Plane processing and user traffic are enabled.

The TER performs the DC or AC power consumption measurement with the power meter.

The power consumption should be greater than the previous one measured in the step 6.

#### Advanced Sleep Mode

##### Advanced Sleep Mode (defined-duration sleep, guaranteed wake-up duration)

Test Description and Applicability

This scenario is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY

The purpose of this test is to ensure O-RU is capable of advanced sleep mode.

The test scenario is intentionally limited in scope to be applicable to any O-RU hardware design that supports Energy Savings.

This scenario corresponds to the following clause in [2]:

7.2.9	Section Type 4: Slot Configuration Control

7.3.1	Section Types

7.4.6	Section Type 4 elements

7.5.2	Application layer, common

16		Energy-saving functionality

following clause in [3]:

20.4	Advanced sleep modes for energy saving

Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU shall support the default parameters of at least one of the scenarios given below,

| Scenario | Default parameters |
| --- | --- |
| FR1 FDD Conducted-Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.1 |
| FR1 FDD Non-conducted OTA Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.2 |
| FR1 TDD Conducted Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.3 |
| FR1 TDD Non-conducted OTA Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.4 |

The test numerology is 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in clause ETSI TS 138.141 -1 NR-FR1-TM1.1. If the O-RU does not support this numerology, any other numerology that the O-RU supports can be used.

The O-RU shall have a conducted antenna port (or TAB connector) to be connected to a signal analyzer, if the O-RU capabilities matches scenario defined in clause 3.2.1.1.1 or clause 3.2.1.1.3.

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

The O-RU exposes the capability to support energy savings including advanced sleep mode for defined-duration sleep, guaranteed wake-up duration.

Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna ports or TAB connectors within acceptable tolerance.

Connect the signal generator to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the scenario under test and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal as described above in clause B. Test Entrance Criteria in the CUSM emulator.

Use the CUSM emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the scenario under test. The C-Plane processing and user traffic are enabled.

The TER measures the AC or DC power consumption of the O-RU using power meter.

The O-DU emulator enables energy savings by signalling section type 4 (st4CmdType = 4 for Advanced Sleep Mode) by setting “symbolMask” field to 0x3FFF to indicate all symbols in a slot made or kept inactive, “sleepMode” field to indicate sleep mode, “numSlots” and “numSlotsExt” field for defined-duration sleep.

NOTE: Defined-duration sleep needs to be greater than the double the wake-up duration. It is recommended to set longer sleep duration, allowing for the power consumption measurements to be made.

NOTE: It is recommended to set the duration for defined-duration sleep to be greater than the double the wake-up duration. Setting longer sleep duration allows for more appropriate power consumption measurements to be made.

The TER waits for a sufficient duration to ensure all of the O-RU’s antenna array elements have reached sleep condition, for example a duration greater than the “wake-up duration”. This ensures C-Plane processing and user traffic are disabled for all of the O-RU’s antenna array elements.

NOTE: Since go-to-sleep duration is unknown and wake-up duration includes go-to-sleep duration, this assures the power measurement is done after all of the O-RU’s antenna array elements have reached sleep condition.

The TER performs the DC or AC power consumption measurement with the power meter.

The power consumption should be smaller than the previous one measured in the step 3.

After defined-duration sleep expiry the C-Plane processing and user traffic are enabled. The TER performs the DC or AC power consumption measurement with the power meter.

The power consumption should be greater than the previous one measured in the step 6.

Test Requirement (expected result)

Test steps above are performed successfully.

All validation steps mentioned in step 7 and step 9 are within expected power ranges as per the vendor product specifications.

##### Advanced Sleep Mode (defined-duration sleep, minimum wake-up duration)

Test Description and Applicability

This scenario is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure O-RU is capable of advanced sleep mode.

The test scenario is intentionally limited in scope to be applicable to any O-RU hardware design that supports Energy Savings.

This scenario corresponds to the following clause in [2]:

7.2.9		Section Type 4: Slot Configuration Control

7.3.1		Section Types

7.4.6		Section Type 4 elements

7.4.10	Section Type 8 elements

7.5.2		Application layer, common

7.5.3.55	ready

16		Energy-saving

functionality following clause in [3]:

20.4		Advanced sleep modes for energy saving

Test Entrance Criteria

The O-RU shall support the default parameters of at least one of the scenarios given below,

| Scenario | Default parameters |
| --- | --- |
| FR1 FDD Conducted-Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.1 |
| FR1 FDD Non-conducted OTA Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.2 |
| FR1 TDD Conducted Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.3 |
| FR1 TDD Non-conducted OTA Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.4 |

The test numerology is 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in clause ETSI TS 138.141 -1 NR-FR1-TM1.1. If the O-RU does not support this numerology, any other numerology that the O-RU supports can be used.

The O-RU shall have a conducted antenna port (or TAB connector) to be connected to a signal analyzer, if the O-RU capabilities matches scenario defined in clause 3.2.1.1.1 or clause 3.2.1.1.3.

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.

The O-RU exposes the capability to support energy savings including advanced sleep mode for defined-duration sleep, minimum wake-up duration.

Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna ports or TAB connectors within acceptable tolerance.

Connect the signal generator to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the scenario under test and configure the analyzer with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.

Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.

Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal as described above in clause B. Test Entrance Criteria in the CUSM emulator.

Use the CUSM emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the scenario under test. The C-Plane processing and user traffic are enabled.

The TER measures the AC or DC power consumption of the O-RU using power meter.

The O-DU emulator enables energy savings by signalling Section Type 4 (st4CmdType = 4 for Advanced Sleep Mode) by setting “symbolMask” field to 0x3FFF, “sleepMode” field to indicate sleep mode, “numSlots” and “numSlotsExt” field for defined-duration sleep.

NOTE: Defined-duration sleep needs to be greater than double the wake-up duration. It is recommended to set longer sleep duration, allowing for the power consumption measurements to be made.

The TER waits for a sufficient duration to ensure all of the O-RU’s antenna array elements have reached sleep condition, for example a duration greater than the wake-up duration. This ensures C-Plane processing and user traffic are disabled for all of the O-RU’s antenna array elements.

NOTE:  Since go-to-sleep duration is unknown and wake-up duration includes go-to-sleep duration, this assures the power measurement is done after all of the O-RU’s antenna array elements have reached sleep condition.

The TER performs the DC or AC power consumption measurement with the power meter.

The power consumption should be smaller than the previous one measured in the step 3.

The O-RU sends a "ready" message to the O-DU emulator to indicate termination of sleep, by setting ready bit to 1 in Section Type 8 command.

After the slotId value mentioned in the Section Type 8 command, the C-Plane processing and user traffic are enabled. The TER performs the DC or AC power consumption measurement with the power meter.

The power consumption should be greater than the previous one measured in the step 6.

Test Requirement (expected result)

Test steps above are performed successfully.

The validation steps mentioned in step 7 and step 10 are within the expected power ranges as per the vendor product specifications.

##### Advanced Sleep Mode (undefined-duration sleep, guaranteed wake-up duration)

- The O-RU shall support the default parameters of at least one of the scenarios given below,

| Scenario | Default parameters |
| --- | --- |
| FR1 FDD Conducted-Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.1 |
| FR1 FDD Non-conducted OTA Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.2 |
| FR1 TDD Conducted Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.3 |
| FR1 TDD Non-conducted OTA Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.4 |

- The test numerology is 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in clause ETSI TS 138.141 -1 NR-FR1-TM1.1. If the O-RU does not support this numerology, any other numerology that the O-RU supports can be used.
- The O-RU shall have a conducted antenna port (or TAB connector) to be connected to a signal analyzer, if the O-RU capabilities matches scenario defined in clause 3.2.1.1.1 or clause 3.2.1.1.3.
Build an appropriate IQ signal as described above in clause B. Test Entrance Criteria in the CUSM emulator.

Use the CUSM emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the scenario under test. The C-Plane processing and user traffic are enabled.

The TER measures the AC or DC power consumption of the O-RU using power meter.

The O-DU emulator enables energy savings by signalling Section Type 4 (st4CmdType = 4 for Advanced Sleep Mode) by setting “sleepMode" field to indicate sleep mode, “symbolMask” field to 0x3FFF to indicate all symbols in a slot made or kept inactive, “numSlots” and “numSlotsExt” fields to 0 to indicate undefined-duration sleep.

The TER waits for a sufficient duration to ensure all of the O-RU’s antenna array elements have reached sleep condition, for example a duration greater than the wake-up duration.

NOTE: Since go-to-sleep duration is unknown and wake-up duration includes go-to-sleep duration. This assures the power measurement is done after all of the O-RU’s antenna array elements have reached sleep condition.

The TER performs the DC or AC power consumption measurement with the power meter.

The power consumption should be smaller than the previous one measured in the step 3.

The O-DU emulator issues a wake-up command by signalling Section Type 4 (st4CmdType = 4 for Advanced Sleep Mode) by setting “sleepMode" field to indicate sleep mode, “symbolMask” field to 0x0000 to indicate all symbols in a slot made or kept active, “numSlots” and “numSlotsExt” fields to 0 to indicate undefined-duration sleep.

NOTE: It is recommended to issue wake-up command after a sufficient duration (for example greater than wake-up duration), allowing for the power consumption measurements to be made.

The TER waits for the time interval of wake-up duration.

The C-Plane processing and user traffic are enabled. The TER performs the DC or AC power consumption measurement with the power meter.

The power consumption should be greater than the previous one measured in the step 6.

##### Advanced Sleep Mode (undefined-duration sleep, minimum wake-up duration)

- The O-RU shall support the default parameters of at least one of the scenarios given below,

| Scenario | Default parameters |
| --- | --- |
| FR1 FDD Conducted-Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.1 |
| FR1 FDD Non-conducted OTA Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.2 |
| FR1 TDD Conducted Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.3 |
| FR1 TDD Non-conducted OTA Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.4 |

- The test numerology is 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in clause ETSI TS 138.141 -1 NR-FR1-TM1.1. If the O-RU does not support this numerology, any other numerology that the O-RU supports can be used.
- The O-RU shall have a conducted antenna port (or TAB connector) to be connected to a signal analyzer, if the O-RU capabilities matches scenario defined in clause 3.2.1.1.1 or clause 3.2.1.1.3.
Build an appropriate IQ signal as described above in clause B. Test Entrance Criteria in the CUSM emulator.

Use the CUSM emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the scenario under test. The C-Plane processing and user traffic are enabled.

The TER measures the AC or DC power consumption of the O-RU using power meter.

The O-DU emulator enables energy savings by signalling Section Type 4 (st4CmdType = 4 for Advanced Sleep Mode) by setting “sleepMode” field to indicate sleep mode, “symbolMask” field to 0x3FFF to indicate all symbols in a slot made or kept inactive, “numSlots” and “numSlotsExt” fields to 0, to indicate undefined-duration sleep.

The TER waits for a sufficient duration to ensure all of the O-RU’s antenna array elements have reached sleep condition, for example a duration greater than the wake-up duration. This ensures C-Plane processing is halted and there is no possibility of user traffic.

NOTE:  Since go-to-sleep duration is unknown and wake-up duration includes go-to-sleep duration, this assures the power measurement is done after all of the O-RU’s antenna array elements have reached sleep condition.

The TER performs the DC or AC power consumption measurement with the power meter.

The power consumption should be smaller than the previous one measured in the step 3.

The O-DU emulator issues a wake-up command by signalling Section Type 4 (st4CmdType = 4 for Advanced Sleep Mode) by setting “sleepMode" field to indicate sleep mode, “symbolMask” field to 0x0000 to indicate all symbols in a slot made or kept active, “numSlots” and “numSlotsExt” fields to 0 to indicate undefined duration sleep.

NOTE: It is recommended to issue wake-up command after a sufficient duration (for example greater than wake-up duration), allowing for the power consumption measurements to be made.

The O-RU sends a "ready" message to the O-DU emulator to indicate termination of sleep, by setting ready bit to 1 in Section Type 8 command. This enables C-Plane processing and user traffic.

After the slotId value mentioned in the Section Type 8 command, the C-Plane processing and user traffic are enabled. The TER performs the DC or AC power consumption measurement with the power meter.

The power consumption should be greater than the previous one measured in the step 6.

##### Advanced Sleep Mode (sleep extension)

- The O-RU shall support the default parameters of at least one of the scenarios given below,

| Scenario | Default parameters |
| --- | --- |
| FR1 FDD Conducted-Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.1 |
| FR1 FDD Non-conducted OTA Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.2 |
| FR1 TDD Conducted Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.3 |
| FR1 TDD Non-conducted OTA Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.4 |

- The test numerology is 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in clause ETSI TS 138.141 -1 NR-FR1-TM1.1. If the O-RU does not support this numerology, any other numerology that the O-RU supports can be used.
- The O-RU shall have a conducted antenna port (or TAB connector) to be connected to a signal analyzer, if the O-RU capabilities matches scenario defined in clause 3.2.1.1.1 or clause 3.2.1.1.3.
Build an appropriate IQ signal as described above in clause B. Test Entrance Criteria in the CUSM emulator.

Use the CUSM emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the scenario under test. The C-Plane processing and user traffic are enabled.

The TER measures the AC or DC power consumption of the O-RU using power meter.

The O-DU emulator enables energy savings by signalling section type 4 (st4CmdType = 4 for Advanced Sleep Mode) by setting “symbolMask” field to 0x3FFF, “sleepMode” field to indicate sleep mode, “numSlots” and “numSlotsExt” field for defined-duration sleep.

NOTE: Defined-duration sleep needs to be greater than double the wake-up duration. It is recommended to set longer sleep duration, allowing for the power consumption measurements to be made.

The TER waits for a sufficient duration to ensure all of the O-RU’s antenna array elements have reached sleep condition, for example a duration greater than the wake-up duration. This ensures C-Plane processing is halted and there is no possibility of user traffic.

NOTE: Since go-to-sleep duration is unknown and wake-up duration includes go-to-sleep duration, this assures the power measurement is done after all of the O-RU’s antenna array elements have reached sleep condition.

The TER performs the DC or AC power consumption measurement with the power meter.

The power consumption should be smaller than the previous one measured in the step 3.

At the start of wake-up duration, the O-DU emulator sends sleep extension command by signaling section type 4 (st4CmdType = 4 for Advanced Sleep Mode) by setting “symbolMask” field to 0x3FFF, “sleepMode” field (any supported sleepMode other than sleep mode 0) for indicating sleep mode, “numSlots” and “numSlotsExt” field for defined-duration

NOTE: Defined-duration sleep needs to be greater than or equal to the wake-up duration. It is recommended to set longer sleep duration, allowing for the power consumption measurements to be made.

The TER waits for a sufficient duration to ensure all of the O-RU’s antenna array elements have reached sleep condition, for example a duration greater than the wake-up duration. This ensures C-Plane processing is halted and there is no possibility of user traffic.

NOTE: Since go-to-sleep duration is unknown and wake-up duration includes go-to-sleep duration,  this assures the power measurement is done after all of the O-RU’s antenna array elements have reached sleep condition.

The TER performs the DC or AC power consumption measurement with the power meter.

The power consumption should be smaller than the previous one measured in the step 3.

After defined-duration sleep expiry, the C-Plane processing and user traffic are enabled. The TER performs the DC or AC power consumption measurement with the power meter.

The power consumption should be greater than the previous one measured in the step 6 and step 10.

##### Advanced Sleep Mode (Emergency wake-up)

- The O-RU shall support the default parameters of at least one of the scenarios given below,

| Scenario | Default parameters |
| --- | --- |
| FR1 FDD Conducted-Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.1 |
| FR1 FDD Non-conducted OTA Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.2 |
| FR1 TDD Conducted Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.3 |
| FR1 TDD Non-conducted OTA Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.4 |

- The test numerology is 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in clause ETSI TS 138.141 -1 NR-FR1-TM1.1. If the O-RU does not support this numerology, any other numerology that the O-RU supports can be used.
- The O-RU shall have a conducted antenna port (or TAB connector) to be connected to a signal analyzer, if the O-RU capabilities matches scenario defined in clause 3.2.1.1.1 or clause 3.2.1.1.3.
Build an appropriate IQ signal as described above in clause B. Test Entrance Criteria in the CUSM emulator.

Use the CUSM emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the scenario under test. The C-Plane processing and user traffic are enabled.

The TER measures the AC or DC power consumption of the O-RU using power meter.

The O-DU emulator enables energy savings by signalling section type 4 (st4CmdType = 4 for Advanced Sleep Mode) by setting “symbolMask” field to 0x3FFF, “sleepMode” field to indicate sleep mode, “numSlots” and “numSlotsExt” field for defined-duration sleep.

NOTE: Defined-duration sleep needs to be greater than double the wake-up duration. It is recommended to set longer sleep duration, allowing for the power consumption measurements to be made.

The TER waits for a sufficient duration to ensure all of the O-RU’s antenna array elements have reached sleep condition, for example a duration greater than the wake-up duration. This ensures C-Plane processing is halted and there is no possibility of user traffic.

NOTE: Since go-to-sleep duration is unknown and wake-up duration includes go-to-sleep duration, this assures the power measurement is done after all of the O-RU’s antenna array elements have reached sleep condition.

The TER performs the DC or AC power consumption measurement with the power meter.

The power consumption should be smaller than the previous one measured in the step 3.

The TER NETCONF client sends a <emergency-wake-up> rpc.

<rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="101">

<edit-config xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0">

<target>      		<running/>   </target>   <config>

</edit-config>

</rpc>

The O-RU NETCONF Server responds with a <rpc-reply> message indicating successful completion of requested procedure.

<rpc-reply xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="101">

<ok/>

</rpc-reply>

The TER NETCONF Client waits for emergency-wake-up-complete notification, to ensure wake up is complete, the C-Plane processing and user traffic are enabled.

The TER performs the DC or AC power consumption measurement with the power meter.

The power consumption should be greater than the previous one measured in the step 6.

#### Mixed Sleep Modes and Overlapping Commands

##### ASM Overlapping Commands

- The O-RU shall support the default parameters of at least one of the scenarios given below,

| Scenario | Default parameters |
| --- | --- |
| FR1 FDD Conducted-Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.1 |
| FR1 FDD Non-conducted OTA Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.2 |
| FR1 TDD Conducted Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.3 |
| FR1 TDD Non-conducted OTA Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.4 |

- The test numerology is 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in clause ETSI TS 138.141 -1 NR-FR1-TM1.1. If the O-RU does not support this numerology, any other numerology that the O-RU supports can be used.
- The O-RU shall have a conducted antenna port (or TAB connector) to be connected to a signal analyzer, if the O-RU capabilities matches scenario defined in clause 3.2.1.1.1 or clause 3.2.1.1.3.
Build an appropriate IQ signal as described above in clause B. Test Entrance Criteria in the CUSM emulator.

Use the CUSM emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the scenario under test. The C-Plane processing and user traffic are enabled.

The TER measures the AC or DC power consumption of the O-RU using power meter.

The O-DU emulator enables energy savings by signalling Section Type 4 (st4CmdType = 4 for Advanced Sleep Mode) by setting “sleepMode" field to indicate sleep mode, “symbolMask” field to 0x3FFF to indicate all symbols in a slot made or kept inactive, “numSlots” and “numSlotsExt” fields to 0 to indicate undefined-duration sleep.

The TER waits for a sufficient duration to ensure all of the O-RU’s antenna array elements have reached sleep condition, for example a duration greater than the wake-up duration. This ensures C-Plane processing is halted and there is no possibility of user traffic.

NOTE: Since go-to-sleep duration is unknown and wake-up duration includes go-to-sleep duration, this assures the power measurement is done after all of the O-RU’s antenna array elements have reached sleep condition.

The TER performs the DC or AC power consumption measurement with the power meter.

The power consumption should be smaller than the previous one measured in the step 3.

The O-DU emulator sends another ASM command by signalling Section Type 4 (st4CmdType = 4 for Advanced Sleep Mode) by setting “symbolMask” field to 0x3FFF to indicate all symbols in a slot made or kept inactive, “sleepMode” field to indicate sleep mode, “numSlots” and “numSlotsExt” field for defined-duration sleep. Figure 3.2.7.3.1-1 provides an example of overlapping ASM commands.

NOTE: Defined-duration sleep needs to be greater than double the wake-up duration. It is recommended to set longer sleep duration, allowing for the power consumption measurements to be made.

The TER waits for a sufficient duration to ensure all of the O-RU’s antenna array elements have reached sleep condition, for example a duration greater than the “wake-up duration”. This ensures C-Plane processing is halted and there is no possibility of user traffic.

NOTE: Since go-to-sleep duration is unknown and wake-up duration includes go-to-sleep duration, this assures the power measurement is done after all of the O-RU’s antenna array elements have reached sleep condition.

The TER performs the DC or AC power consumption measurement with the power meter.

The power consumption should be smaller than the previous one measured in the step 3.

NOTE: This ensures that reception of the new ASM command does not wake up the O-RU but has replaced the previous ASM command sent in step 4.

After defined-duration sleep expiry, the C-Plane processing and user traffic are enabled. The TER performs the DC or AC power consumption measurement with the power meter.

The power consumption should be greater than the previous one measured in the step 6 and step 10.

##### C-Plane based TRX Control overlapping sleep mode

- The O-RU shall support the default parameters of at least one of the scenarios given below,

| Scenario | Default parameters |
| --- | --- |
| FR1 FDD Conducted-Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.1 |
| FR1 FDD Non-conducted OTA Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.2 |
| FR1 TDD Conducted Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.3 |
| FR1 TDD Non-conducted OTA Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.4 |

- The test numerology is 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in clause ETSI TS 138.141 -1 NR-FR1-TM1.1. If the O-RU does not support this numerology, any other numerology that the O-RU supports can be used.
- The O-RU shall have a conducted antenna port (or TAB connector) to be connected to a signal analyzer, if the O-RU capabilities matches scenario defined in clause 3.2.1.1.1 or clause 3.2.1.1.3.
Build an appropriate IQ signal as described above in clause B. Test Entrance Criteria in the CUSM emulator.

Use the CUSM emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the scenario under test. The C-Plane processing and user traffic are enabled.

The TER measures the AC or DC power consumption of the O-RU using power meter.

The O-DU emulator enables energy savings by signalling Section Type 4 (st4CmdType = 3 for TRX_CONTROL) by setting “sleepMode" field to indicate sleep mode, “symbolMask” field to 0x3FFF to indicate all symbols in a slot made or kept inactive, “numSlots” and “numSlotsExt” fields to 0 to indicate undefined-duration sleep and “antMask” field to "0" for all array elements to place the whole antenna panel to sleep.

The TER waits for a sufficient duration to ensure all of the O-RU’s antenna array elements have reached sleep condition, for example a duration greater than the wake-up duration. This ensures C-Plane processing is halted and there is no possibility of user traffic.

NOTE: Since go-to-sleep duration is unknown and wake-up duration includes go-to-sleep duration, this assures the power measurement is done after all of the O-RU’s antenna array elements have reached sleep condition.

The TER performs the DC or AC power consumption measurement with the power meter.

The power consumption should be smaller than the previous one measured in the step 3.

The O-DU emulator issues a wake-up command to turn on portions of the O-RU’s antenna array (for example, top half of the O-RU’s antenna array) by signalling Section Type 4 (st4CmdType = 3 for TRX_CONTROL) by setting “symbolMask” field to 0x0000 to indicate all symbols in a slot made or kept active, “sleepMode” field to indicate sleep mode, “numSlots” and “numSlotsExt” field to 0 to indicate undefined-duration sleep and “antMask” field to "1" in each array element for portions (for example, top half) of the O-RU’s antenna array that is to be made or kept active. This ensures the C-Plane processing and user traffic are enabled for portions (for example, top half) of the O-RU’s antenna array.

NOTE: It is recommended to issue wake-up command after sufficient duration (for example greater than wake-up duration), allowing for the power consumption measurements to be made.

The TER performs the DC or AC power consumption measurement with the power meter.

The power consumption should be greater than the previous one measured in the step 6.

The O-DU emulator issues a wake-up command to turn on remaining portions of the O-RU’s antenna array (for example, bottom half of the O-RU’s antenna array) by signalling Section Type 4 (st4CmdType = 3 for TRX_CONTROL) by setting “symbolMask” field to 0x0000 to indicate all symbols in a slot made or kept active, “sleepMode” field to indicate sleep mode, “numSlots” and “numSlotsExt” field to 0 to indicate undefined-duration sleep and “antMask” field to "1" in each array element for remaining portions (for example, bottom half) of the O-RU’s antenna array that is to be made or kept active. This ensures the C-Plane processing and user traffic are enabled for remaining portions (for example, bottom half) of the O-RU’s antenna array. Figure 3.2.7.3.2-1 provides an example of overlapping C-Plane based TRX control commands.

NOTE: It is recommended to issue wake-up command after sufficient duration (for example greater than wake-up duration), allowing for the power consumption measurements to be made.

The TER performs the DC or AC power consumption measurement with the power meter.

The power consumption should be greater than the previous one measured in the step 6 and step 9.

##### ASM and C-Plane based TRX control overlapping commands

- The O-RU shall support the default parameters of at least one of the scenarios given below,

| Scenario | Default parameters |
| --- | --- |
| FR1 FDD Conducted-Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.1 |
| FR1 FDD Non-conducted OTA Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.2 |
| FR1 TDD Conducted Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.3 |
| FR1 TDD Non-conducted OTA Signal Tests | clause 3.2.1.1.4 |

- The test numerology is 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in clause ETSI TS 138.141 -1 NR-FR1-TM1.1. If the O-RU does not support this numerology, any other numerology that the O-RU supports can be used.
- The O-RU shall have a conducted antenna port (or TAB connector) to be connected to a signal analyzer, if the O-RU capabilities matches scenario defined in clause 3.2.1.1.1 or clause 3.2.1.1.3.
Build an appropriate IQ signal as described above in clause B. Test Entrance Criteria in the CUSM emulator.

Use the CUSM emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the scenario under test. The C-Plane processing and user traffic are enabled.

The TER measures the AC or DC power consumption of the O-RU using power meter.

The O-DU emulator enables energy savings by signalling section type 4 (st4CmdType = 3 for TRX_CONTROL) by setting “symbolMask” field to 0x3FFF, “sleepMode” field to indicate sleep mode, “numSlots”, “numSlotsExt” field for defined-duration sleep and “antMask” field with "0" in half of array element to make half of antenna panel to sleep.

NOTE: Defined-duration sleep needs to be greater than double the wake-up duration. It is recommended to set longer sleep duration, allowing for the power consumption measurements to be made. It is recommended to set at least half of the array elements off (0 indicates off) in the antenna mask to better observe power changes.

The TER waits for a sufficient duration to ensure some of the O-RU’s antenna array have reached sleep condition, for example a duration greater than the “wake-up duration”. This ensures C-Plane processing is halted and there is no possibility of user traffic.

NOTE: Since go-to-sleep duration is unknown and wake-up duration includes go-to-sleep duration, this assures the power measurement is done after all of the O-RU’s antenna array elements have reached sleep condition.

The TER performs the DC or AC power consumption measurement with the power meter.

The power consumption should be smaller than the previous one measured in the step 3.

At the start of wake-up duration, the O-DU emulator sends sleep extension command by signalling section type 4 (st4CmdType = 3 for TRX_CONTROL) by setting “symbolMask” field to 0x3FFF, “sleepMode” field to indicate sleep mode, “numSlots”, “numSlotsExt” fields to 0 for indicating undefined-duration sleep and “antMask” field with "0" in each array element that is to be made or kept inactive.

NOTE: It is recommended to set at least half of the array elements off (0 indicates off) in the antenna mask to better observe power changes.

The TER waits for a sufficient duration to ensure some of the O-RU’s antenna array have reached sleep condition, for example a duration greater than the “wake-up duration”. This ensures C-Plane processing is halted and there is no possibility of user traffic.

NOTE: Since go-to-sleep duration is unknown and wake-up duration includes go-to-sleep duration. This assures the power measurement is done after all of the O-RU’s antenna array elements have reached sleep condition.

The TER performs the DC or AC power consumption measurement with the power meter.

The power consumption should be smaller than the previous one measured in the step 3.

The O-DU emulator enables energy savings by signalling Section Type 4 (st4CmdType = 4 for Advanced Sleep Mode) by setting “symbolMask” field to 0x3FFF to indicate all symbols in a slot made or kept inactive, “sleepMode” field to indicate sleep mode, “numSlots” and “numSlotsExt” field for defined-duration sleep.

NOTE: Defined-duration sleep needs to be greater than the double the wake-up duration. It is recommended to set longer sleep duration, allowing for the power consumption measurements to be made.

The TER waits for a sufficient duration to ensure all of the O-RU’s antenna array elements have reached sleep condition, for example a duration greater than the “wake-up duration”. This ensures C-Plane processing is halted and there is no possibility of user traffic.

NOTE: Since go-to-sleep duration is unknown and wake-up duration includes go-to-sleep duration, this assures the power measurement is done after all of the O-RU’s antenna array elements have reached sleep condition.

The TER performs the DC or AC power consumption measurement with the power meter.

The power consumption should be smaller than the previous one measured in the step 3, step 6 and step 10.

After defined-duration sleep expiry, the half of antenna array elements become active. i.e. , the C-Plane processing and user traffic are enabled for half of antenna array elements.

The TER performs the DC or AC power consumption measurement with the power meter.

The power consumption should be smaller than the previous one measured in the step 3, and greater than the step 14.

The O-DU emulator disables energy savings by issuing a wake-up command by signalling Section Type 4 (st4CmdType = 3 for TRX_CONTROL) by setting “sleepMode" field to indicate sleep mode, “symbolMask” field to 0x0000 to indicate all symbols in a slot made or kept active, “numSlots” and “numSlotsExt” fields to 0 to indicate undefined-duration sleep and “antMask” field to "1" in each array element that is to be made or kept active. Figure 3.2.7.3.3-1 provides an example of overlapping C-Plane based TRX control commands and ASM command.

The TER waits for the time interval of wake-up duration. This ensures the C-Plane processing and user traffic are enabled.

TER performs the DC or AC power consumption measurement with the power meter.

The power consumption should be greater than the previous one measured in the step 6, step 14 and step 17.

## S-Plane Conformance Tests

This clause describes tests that are used to validate S-Plane functional and performance conformance of network elements using the O-RAN WG4 fronthaul interface defined in [2] and the O-RAN WG4 M-Plane interface defined in [3].  This version of the conformance specification defines both O-DU and O-RU conformance tests.  Future versions of this specification will describe additional S-Plane functional and performance conformance tests of other clocks used in the front haul, e.g. PRTC/T-GM, etc.

S-Plane functionality of the O-RU is determined based on status retrieved from the O-RU using the M-Plane or SMO as appropriate, whereas, S-Plane performance is determined by over-the-air (OTA) or conductive (i.e. a cabled electrical connection to the DUT’s radio interface) measurements of O-RU synchronization signal.

S-Plane functionality of the O-DU is determined based on status retrieved from the O-DU using the SMO.  SMO methods to configure the O-DU and retrieve status from the O-DU can be any method supported by the O-DU including CLI, NM or WG5 specified protocols.

The performance of O-DU is determined by time/frequency error measurements on output signals (such as 1PPS, or fronthaul SyncE+PTP master ports in LLS-C1 and LLS-C2).  When applicable, O-DU tests are based on ITU-T G.8275.1 [5] profile. ITU-T G.8275.2 [6] is not specifically supported in this document version because this standard does not specify performance criteria and is left for further study.

O-DU tests consider both local and remote PRTC connections, as shown in Figure 3.3.1-1. The connection type is relevant for performance tests because the input conditions applied to DUT depends on connection types supported:

Both functional and performance tests require the provision of a test equipment i.e. provision of a test setup that includes a CUSM-E which delivers the necessary stimuli as described in clause 3.3.1.

The S-Plane conformance test suite assumes that the vendor’s equipment is conformant and has been tested to meet the requirements of ITU-T G.8275.1 [5] and IEEE1588v2 [32] and other relevant S-Plane standards. Therefore, this document does not attempt to duplicate tests for these standards.

The below clauses of bullets summarize the test scope in order to validate conformance to the synchronization plane specification referenced by [2] clause 9.

- General points which apply to testing of both functional and performance aspects of the O-DU and O-RU:
- The tests apply to both 4G (LTE/E-UTRA) and 5G (NR) and are applicable to all O-RAN IOT profiles listed in Annex A
- A CUSM-E is needed to generate the necessary M-plane and S-Plane traffic that includes PTP and possibly SyncE SSM over ESMC. It is synchronized to a time reference. For the O-RU testing a CUSM-E must also generate CU-Plane background traffic.
- Shall be done in the lab at constant temperature
- The CUS specification [2] may in the future support different kinds of Physical Layer Frequency Support (PLFS), however the only fully specified PLFS by the current edition of [2] is SyncE. Thus, these S-Plane tests are defined to include SyncE when required.
- Testing of SyncE is optional and is only valid when the SyncE device which can be driven by a master (e.g. O-RU) makes use of it. Therefore, the related SyncE test cases are optional.
- The following bulleted points apply specifically to functional tests of the O-RU in addition to the general points above,
- For validation of S-Plane, the following are used:
- A CUSM-E sends and receives synchronization information over the fronthaul interface.
- A Measurement Equipment to perform frequency/phase/time measurements from any available synchronization interface.
- DUT’s S-Plane reports its state over M-Plane.
- The acceptance criterion for these tests is to comply with specification [2].
- The following bullets points apply specifically to functional test of the O-DU in addition to the general points above:
- On its input ports, O-DU end application like O-RU may optionally use SyncE along with PTP. However, in the case of an LLS-C1/C2 O-DU acting as ITU-T G.8275.1 [5] SyncE+PTP master, SyncE emission is mandatory on the fronthaul for validation of S-plane:
- The acceptance criterion for these tests is to comply with specification [2].
- The CUSM-E also provides local time source input signals to the O-DU:
- GNSS RF signals, delivered by a GNSS generator referenced to the local time reference
- PRTC output signals (1PPS + serial link)
- The following bulleted points apply specifically to performance tests for O-RU and O-DU in addition to the general points above.
- These tests are not defined to fully stress the DUT. Rather they are intended to stress the DUT enough to determine that it can properly operate via the defined front haul protocol.
- The thermal profile is not defined. The tests are defined to be run at a constant temperature, but the thermal profile choice and range is left as a decision for the vendor.
- The variable C/U-Plane profile (for example similar to test case 13 shown in figure VI.11 of ITU-T G.8261 [10]) will be defined as part of the work on the future performance tests.
- All performance tests described in this clause assume the following two components in the procedure (test methodology clauses):
- Establishing the necessary M-plane session to bring up the O-RU or if applicable the O-DU and make it ready for transmission of a measurement signal.
- For the O-RU in addition to the M-plane session, the transmission of a test signal necessitates the provision of a CU plane test vector. The test vector needs to have enough information to set up a synchronization channel within the radio frame transmitted over the air.
- For O-DU performance tests the test cannot be executed unless the O-DU provides an Ethernet port with sync master function and/or a 1PPS output signal.
- The acceptance criterion for the performance tests is to satisfy the 3GPP OTA TAE limits specified in ETSI TS 136.141 [18] for 4G (LTE) and 38.141-2 [20] for 5G (NR), and summarized in eCPRI [11] and ITU-T G.8271 [31]. The conditions applicable to each test will be set out in the relevant clauses below (future work item). OTA TAE limits for MIMO/Tx Diversity is outside the scope of this document because they apply between endpoints belonging to the same O-RU.
- The CUS Specification [2] which follows eCPRI [11] and IEEE802.1 CM [33] recommendation, defines two examples of O-RU types, but these are not strict classes like the T-BC classes specified in ITU-T G.8273.2 [26].

### Test Environment

The following describes the necessary functions and capabilities of the test equipment in order to perform O-RU or O-DU conformance tests. A diagram of the O-RU test set up shown in Figure 3.3.1-2, and a similar diagram of the O-DU test set up is shown in Figure 3.3.1-3.

Referring to Figure 3.3.1-2, the stimulus is applied to the O-RU via an Ethernet interface which simulates an O-RAN CUS-Plane protocols by using equipment to generate an O-DU and/or front haul time reference. This interface carries the PTP and SyncE stimulus to test the O-RU and carries M-Plane information to configure DUT and as needed C-Plane and U-Plane information to generate a test signal to measure time accuracy.  Performance measurements are made at the radio output.  These measurements can be made either over the air (called a non-conductive measurement), or via a cable connection from the radio interface (called conductive measurement).

Figure 3.3.1-2 applies to LLS-C1/C2/C3 topologies.  LLS-C4 topology is for further study.

As shown in Figure 3.3.1-3, the O-DU the setup is similar to the O-RU. In addition to the option to supply timing using PTP via Ethernet (like the O-RU), the input stimulus may be applied to the DUT from a directly connected Time Reference which delivers frequency (e.g. SyncE, 10MHz, 1PPS), phase (e.g.1PPS, 10ms frame boundary) and time (e.g. ToD, PTP) signals.  Directly connecting the Time Reference time via a Local Sync Port simulates topology with an O-DU using a Local PRTC Time Reference. Using PTP via an Ethernet Test Port simulates a topology using a Remote PRTC.

For the O-DU LLS C1/C2 performance tests, the quality of the DUT timing output is measured via the DUT Fronthaul Ethernet Port, which propagates the time and optionally frequency information from the DUT using PTP and optionally SyncE.

CUSM-Plane Emulator: This function implements various planes (C, U, S, M) to simulate a front haul/transport network connecting to DUT (i.e. O-RU, O-DU). It should be capable of testing S-Plane performance under stress with various noise profiles. S-Plane signals sent to DUT and measurement equipment are traceable to reference signals received from the master time reference. Emulator should generate noise free reference signal for Measurement Equipment and (when required) a noise profile for the DUT. The CUSM-Plane emulator may be composed of multiple components or could be a single component containing all the capabilities listed below. When O-RU is the DUT UC-Plane is needed for O-RU to generate a radio information required to measure timing.  For O-DU, CU-Plane functionality is not used since timing is measured directly from an Ethernet or 1PPS test port.

The emulator shall merge all traffic types for transmission over the fronthaul without degrading performance of S-Plane.

| O-DU Input Time Source | Topology and Master Output Time |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| O-DU Input Time Source | LLS-C1 | LLS-C2 | LLS-C3 | LLS-C4 |
| PTP+SyncE Master from Mid Haul (either Local or Remote PRTC) | Yes – Front Haul | Yes - None |  |  |
| PTP+SyncE Master from Front Haul (Remote PRTC) | NA | Yes - None |  |  |
| Local time source, either GNSS RF signals or 1PPS+TOD from PRTC | Yes – Front Haul | Yes - None |  |  |

Measurement Equipment: This equipment is responsible for extracting the desired synchronization information from the test signal transmitted by the DUT, and then measuring this information to determine if the performance is within limits. This could be a single piece of test equipment containing all the capabilities listed below, or it may be created by interconnecting a separate signal analyzer and performance measurement system.

For O-RU testing the following measurement equipment is needed.

For O-DU testing the following measurement equipment is used.

### Functional test of O-RU using ITU-T G.8275.1 profile (LLS-C1/C2/C3)

| Step | PTP Status: | SyncE Status (if applicable): SSM |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 1. | Startup: no clockclass | Startup: no SSM/QL |
| 2. | Nominal clockclass=6 | Nominal QL= (see Note 1) |
| 3. | Degraded clockclass but within the O-RU’s configured accepted range. | Nominal QL= (see Note 1) |
| 4. | Degraded clockclass outside the O-RU’s configured accepted range. | Nominal QL= (see Note 1) |
| 5. | Degraded clockclass outside the O-RU’s configured accepted range. | Degraded QL outside the O-RU’s configured accepted range. |
| 6. | Nominal clockclass=6 | Nominal QL= (see Note 1) |
| 7. | Nominal clockclass=6 | Degraded QL but within the O-RU’s configured accepted range. |
| 8. | Nominal clockclass=6 | Degraded QL outside the O-RU’s configured accepted range. |
| 9. | Nominal clockclass=6 | Nominal QL = (see Note1) |
| 10. | S-Plane lost, no message |  |

| Step | O-RU PTP Status | sync -state | ptp  lock-state | ptp state | ptp  clock-class |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1. | Startup | FREE-RUN | UNLOCKED | DISABLED | 255 |
| 2. | Nominal | LOCKED | PARENT | Rcvd Value |  |
| 3. | Degraded, within range | LOCKED | PARENT | Rcvd Value |  |
| 4. – 5. | Degraded, outside range. | HOLDOVER (Note 1) then FREERUN | (Note 2) | NOK | Rcvd Value |
| 6. – 9. | Nominal | LOCKED | PARENT | Rcvd Value |  |
| 10. | None (disconnected) | HOLDOVER (Note 1) then FREERUN | UNLOCKED | DISABLED | 255 |

| Step | O-RU PTP and SyncE Status | sync-state | ptp lock-state | ptp state | ptp  clock-class | synce lock-state | synce state | synce  quality-level |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1. | Startup | FREE-RUN | UNOCKED | DISABLED | 255 | UN-LOCKED | DIS-ABLED | Note 1 |
| 2. | PTP: Nominal SyncE: Nominal | LOCKED | PARENT | Rcvd Value | PARENT or OK |  |  |  |
| 3. | PTP: Degraded, within range SyncE: Nominal | LOCKED | PARENT | Rcvd Value | PARENT or OK |  |  |  |
| 4. | PTP: Degraded, outside range. SyncE: Nominal | HOLDOVER  (Note 2) then FREERUN (Note 3) | (Note 4) | NOK | Rcvd Value | LOCKED | PARENT |  |
| 5. | PTP: Degraded, outside range. SyncE: Degraded, outside range. | HOLDOVER  (Note 2) then FREERUN (Note 3) | (Note 4) | NOK | Rcvd Value | Note 1 |  |  |
| 6. | PTP: Nominal SyncE: Nominal | LOCKED | PARENT | Rcvd Value | PARENT or OK |  |  |  |
| 7. | PTP: Nominal SyncE: Degraded, within range. | LOCKED | PARENT | Rcvd Value | PARENT or OK |  |  |  |
| 8. | PTP: Nominal SyncE: Degraded, outside range. | Imple- mentation Specific  (Note 3) | LOCKED | PARENT | Rcvd Value | Note 1 | NOK |  |
| 9. | PTP: Nominal SyncE: Nominal | LOCKED | PARENT | Rcvd Value | PARENT or OK |  |  |  |
| 10. | PTP: None (disconnected) SyncE: None (disconnected) | HOLDOVER (Note 2) then FREERUN (Note 3) | UNLOCKED | DISABLED | 255 | UN-LOCKED | DIS-ABLED | Note 1 |

### Performance test of O-RU using ITU-T G.8275.1 Profile (LLS-C1/C2/C3)

| Frequency [Hz] | LLS-C1 | LLS-C2 | LLS-C3 | Test duration [s] |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Frequency [Hz] | Sine wave  amplitude [ns] | Constant Time  Error [ns] | Sine wave amplitude [ns] |  |  |  |  |
| 0.003362 | 710 | 833 | 587 | 187 | 913 | 595 (2 periods) |  |
| 0.010 | 239 | 1181 | 328 | 1092 | 108 | 992 | 500 (5 periods) |
| 0.100 | 24 | 1396 | 78 | 1342 | 68 | 1032 | 50 (5 periods) |
| NOTE: The sine wave amplitudes are zero to peak values. Dynamic time error values (dTE) are peak-to-peak values and equal two times the given sine wave amplitude. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |

For LLS-C3 the noise pattern must meet the conditions in 2c above.

- Ideal Case:

| Requirement | Metric | LLS-C1 & LLS-C2 Limit | LLS-C3 Limit |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| a | Maximum frequency error | ±35 ppb (see Note 1) | ±48 ppb (see Note 3) |
| b | Maximum time error | +/-80ns (see Note 2) | +/-80ns (see Note 4) |
| NOTE 1:	3GPP limit 50 ppb – 15ppb = 35 ppb, where 15ppb is the error of a class A O-DU (worst-case). NOTE 2:	3GPP limit 1500 ns – CUS spec 1420ns = 80 ns, where 1420ns is the error allocated to the O-DU for LLS-C1 and LLS C2 NOTE 3:	50ppb – 2ppb PRTC holdover = 48ppb (PRTC holdover allowance is removed because the ideal case is not a holdover scenario).  At high frequencies, error is mostly generated by the O-RU clock.  NOTE 4:	80ns is the time error budget allocation for the O-RU in CUS specification Table 11.3.2.2-1. |  |  |  |

- Normal Operation Case:

| Requirement | Metric | LLS-C1 & LLS-C2 Limit | LLS-C3 Limit |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| a | Maximum frequency error | ±50 ppb  (3GPP limit) |  |
| b | Maximum time error | ±1500ns (3GPP limit) | ±1180 ns (see Note 1 and Note 2) |
| NOTE 1:	±1180 ns limit is based on ITU-T G.8273.2 [26]. Clause 7.3.2, including short holdover periods. NOTE 2:	Use of the remaining budget (e.g. for O-RU holdover or longer network holdover) between this limit and the 3GPP limit of 1500 ns is not within scope of this conformance test. |  |  |  |

When the 1 PPS output is available, an optional diagnostic test can be performed on this interface. This test’s results provide an indication of the overall O-RU performance by more easily measuring the capabilities of the O-RU’s synchronization implementation.  For this test example reference target requirements for the 1PPS output during the two conditions (ideal and normal)  have been provided in Table 3.3.3-4 and Table 3.3.3-5.

Ideal Case:

| Requirement | Metric | LLS-C1 & LLS-C2 Limit | LLS-C3 Limit |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| a | Maximum frequency error | ±21 ppb  (see Note 1) | ±21 ppb  (see Note 3) |
| b | Maximum time error | +/-60ns (see Note 2) |  |
| NOTE 1:	This case may require further analysis; a conservative value is currently considered. For the ideal operation case, the RMS accumulation of the MTIE and of the high frequency noise specified in ITU-T G.8273.2 [26]. class B clock (40 ns and 70 ns respectively) is used to define the 81 ns plateau. This is then combined with a 21 ppb slope on the shorter observation intervals. NOTE 2:	(3GPP limit 1500 ns – CUS spec 1420ns -20 ns = 60 ns, where 1420ns is the error allocated at the input of the O-RU for LLS-C1 and LLS-C2 (in case of regular O-RU), and 20ns is the time error assumed for the radio part of the O-RU (RF)).   NOTE 3:	This is the same value used for LLS-C1 and LLS-C2 (the test set up is identical in the ideal case and it should be possible to assume the same implementation of the O-RU is used for LLS-C3 and LLS-C1/LLS-C2).  In principle a worst case value could be based on Table H.2.5-3 (30ppb), but removing the contribution from the network, that would not be far from the value of 21ppb. Due to that and considering the diagnostic purpose of this test, 21ppb can be applied to LLS-C3. |  |  |  |

Normal Operation Case:

| Requirement | Metric | LLS-C1 & LLS-C2 Limit | LLS-C3 Limit |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| a | Maximum frequency error | ±36 ppb (see Note 1) | ±32 ppb (see Note 3) |
| b | Maximum time error | ±1480ns (see Note 2) | ±1160 ns (see Note 4) |
| NOTE 1:	((3GPP limit 50 ppb - 14ppb = 36 ppb, where 14ppb is the error assumed for the radio part of the O-RU (RF)) NOTE 2:	(3GPP limit – 20 ns allocated to the RF). NOTE 3:	50 ppb - 18 ppb = 32 ppb (where 18 ppb is the error assumed for the radio part of the O-RU (RF), see table H.2.5-3). NOTE 4:	1180ns – 20 ns = 1160 ns (where 20 ns is allocated to the RF and 1080 ns is the output in case of Normal operation case). |  |  |  |

NOTE: An example method to verify the maximum frequency accuracy of the 1PPS output for the normal and ideal operation is to ensure that the MTIE of the output is below the masks described in Figure 3.3.3-2, Table 3.3.3-6, Table 3.3.3-7, Table 3.3.3-8 and Table 3.3.3-9.

Figure 3.3.3-2 1PPS output MTIE, normal and ideal operation case (measured on the unfiltered signal)

| Observation Interval (s) | MTIE limit unfiltered (ns) LLS-C1, LLS-C2 and LLS-C3 |
| --- | --- |
| 1  <  t  ≤  3.8 | 21 t |
| t >  3.8 | 81 (NOTE 1) |
| NOTE 1:	The limit is derived assuming a class B T-TSC in the O-RU with dTE=sqrt(dTEL2+dTEH2)=sqrt(402+702)=81ns |  |

| Observation Interval (s) | MTIE limit unfiltered (ns) LLS-C1 |
| --- | --- |
| 1  <  t  ≤ 82.5 | 36 t |
| t > 82.5 | 2969 (NOTE 1) |
| NOTE 1:	The limit is derived from CUS-Plane Specification [2]. Table H.2.4-1 unfiltered LLS-C1 mask adding an assumed class B T-TSC in the O-RU with dTE=sqrt(dTEL2+dTEH2)=sqrt(402+702)=81ns |  |

)

| Observation Interval (s) | MTIE limit unfiltered (ns) LLS-C2 |
| --- | --- |
| 1  <  t  ≤ 79 | 36 t |
| t > 79 | 2845 (NOTE 1) |
| NOTE 1:	The limit is derived from CUS-Plane Specification [2]. Table H.2.4-4 adding an assumed class B T-TSC in the O-RU with dTE=sqrt(dTEL2+dTEH2)=sqrt(402+702)=81ns |  |

| Observation Interval (s) | MTIE limit unfiltered (ns) LLS-C3 |
| --- | --- |
| 1  <  t  ≤  6.9 s | 32 t |
| 6.9 s < t ≤  500 s | 207 + 2 t |
| t >  500 s | 1207 |
| NOTE 1:	The limit is derived from CUS-Plane Specification [2]. Table H.2.5-4 adding an assuming a class B T-TSC in the O-RU with dTE=sqrt(dTEL2+dTEH2)=sqrt(402+702)=81ns |  |

The diagnostic test can be considered passed if values are within these limits.

The diagnostic test should be considered not passed when the measured values are too close to the pass / fail criteria applicable at the air interface as defined above (point 1 and 2 of the Pass/Fail criteria). The actual criteria should be defined case by case depending on the characteristics of the O-RU under test. O-RU vendors should provide indication on a target performance in this case.

### Performance test of O-RU using LLS-C4

### Functional test of O-DU Synchronized from ITU-T G.8275.1 profile PRTC/T-GM (LLS-C1/C2/C3/C4)

| Step | PTP Status: | SyncE Status (if applicable): SSM |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 1. | Startup: no clockclass | Startup: no SSM/QL |
| 2. | Nominal clockclass=6 | Nominal QL= (see Note 1) |
| 3. | Degraded clockclass but within the O-DU’s configured accepted range. | Nominal QL= (see Note 1) |
| 4. | Degraded clockclass outside the O-DU’s configured accepted range. | Nominal QL= (see Note 1) |
| 5. | Degraded clockclass outside the O-DU’s configured accepted range. | Degraded QL outside the O-RU’s configured accepted range. |
| 6. | Nominal clockclass=6 | Nominal QL= (see Note 1) |
| 7. | Nominal clockclass=6 | Degraded QL but within the O-DU’s configured accepted range. |
| 8. | Nominal clockclass=6 | Degraded QL outside the O-DU’s configured accepted range. |
| 9. | Nominal clockclass=6 | Nominal QL = (see Note1) |
| 10. | S-Plane lost, no message |  |

| Step | O-DU PTP Status | PTP Input Parameters | PTP/SyncE Output Parameters (Note 5) |  |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Step | O-DU PTP Status | sync -state | ptp sync-source-status | ptp clock-class | ptp master  sync-source-status | ptp master  clock-class | synce master  sync-source-status | synce master quality-level |
| 1. | Startup | FREERUN | NOT_ USABLE | 248 or 255 | 248 | Note 1 |  |  |
| 2. | Nominal | LOCKED | IN_USE | Rcvd Value | PRC |  |  |  |
| 3. | Degraded, within range | LOCKED | IN_USE | Rcvd Value | Note 1 |  |  |  |
| 4. - 5. | Degraded, outside range. | HOLDOVER  (Note 2) then FREERUN | NOT_ USABLE | Rcvd Value | IN_USE (Note 2) then NOT_ USABLE | Notes 1, 4 | Note 1 |  |
| 6. - 9. | Nominal | LOCKED | IN_USE | Rcvd Value | PRC |  |  |  |
| 10. | None (disconnected) | HOLDOVER (Note 2) then FREERUN | NOT_ IN_USE | Notes 1, 4 | IN_USE (Note 2) then NOT_ USABLE | Note 1 |  |  |

| Step | O-DU PTP and SyncE Status | PTP/SyncE Input Parameters | PTP/SyncE Output Parameters (Note 6) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Step | O-DU PTP and SyncE Status | sync -state | ptp sync-source-status | ptp clock-class | synce sync-source-status | synce quality-level | ptp master sync-source-status | ptp master clock-class | synce master sync-source-status | synce master quality-level |
| 1. | Startup | FREERUN | NOT_ USABLE | 248 or 255 | Note 1 | 248 |  |  |  |  |
| 2. | PTP: Nominal SyncE: Nominal | LOCKED | IN_USE | Rcvd Value | IN_USE or USABLE |  |  |  |  |  |
| 3. | PTP: Degraded, in range SyncE: Nominal | LOCKED | IN_USE | Rcvd Value | IN_USE or USABLE |  |  |  |  |  |
| 4. | PTP: Degraded, outside range. SyncE: Nominal | HOLD OVER  (Note 2) then FREERUN | NOT_ USABLE | Rcvd Value | IN_USE | IN_USE (Note 2) then NOT_ USABLE | Notes 1, 4 | IN_USE then NOT_ USABLE |  |  |
| 5. | PTP: Degraded, outside range. SyncE: Degraded, outside range. | HOLD OVER  (Note 2) then FREERUN | NOT_ USABLE | Rcvd Value | IN_USE (Note 2) then NOT_ USABLE | Notes 1, 4 | IN_USE then NOT_ USABLE |  |  |  |
| 6. | PTP: Nominal SyncE: Nominal | LOCKED | IN_USE | Rcvd Value | IN_USE or USABLE |  |  |  |  |  |
| 7. | PTP: Nominal SyncE: Degraded, in range. | LOCKED | IN_USE | Rcvd Value | IN_USE or USABLE |  |  |  |  |  |
| 8. | PTP: Nominal SyncE: Degraded, outside range. | Implementation Specific (Note 5) | IN_USE | Rcvd Value | NOT_ USABLE | Note 1 | IN_USE or (Note 2) NOT_ USABLE |  |  |  |
| 9. | PTP: Nominal SyncE: Nominal | LOCKED | IN_USE | Rcvd Value | IN_USE or USABLE |  |  |  |  |  |
| 10. | PTP: None (disconnected) SyncE: None (disconnected) | HOLDOVER  (Note 2) then FREERUN | NOT_ IN_USE | Notes 1, 4 | Note 1 | IN_USE (Note 2) then NOT_ USABLE | IN_USE then NOT_ USABLE |  |  |  |

### Functional test of O-DU Synchronized from Embedded or Local non-PTP PRTC (LLS-C1/C2/C3/C4)

| Step | GNSS RF or PRTC output Status |
| --- | --- |
| 1. | Startup Status (and GNSS Acquiring Mode if implemented) Note 1. |
| 2. | Nominal |
| 3. | Degraded, |
| 4. | Nominal |
| 5. | Failed (no signal) |

| Step | O-DU GNSS, Status | GNSS Input Parameters | PTP/SyncE Output Parameters |  |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Step | O-DU GNSS, Status | sync -state | gnss sync-source-status | gnss sync-status | ptp master sync-source-status | ptp master clock-class | synce master  sync-source-status | synce master  quality-level |
| 1. | Startup | FREERUN | USABLE | ACQUIRING-SYNC | NOT_ USABLE | 248 | Note 1 |  |
| 2. | Nominal | LOCKED | IN_USE | SYNCH-RONIZED | 6 | PRC |  |  |
| 3. | Degraded | HOLDOVER  (Note 2) then FREERUN | NOT_ IN_USE then NOT_ USABLE | SYNCH-RONIZED | NOT_ IN_USE (Note 2) then NOT_ USABLE | (Notes 1, 3) | Note 1 |  |
| 4. | Nominal | LOCKED | IN_USE | SYNCH-RONIZED | 6 | PRC |  |  |
| 5. | Failed (no signal) | HOLDOVER  (Note 2) then FREERUN | NOT_ IN_USE | ANTENNA-DISCON-NECTED | NOT_ IN_USE (Note 2) then NOT_ USABLE | (Notes 1, 3) | Note 1 |  |

### Performance test of O-DU Synchronized from either Local or Remote PRTC using ITU-T G.8275.1 PTP Profile (LLS-C1/C2/C3/C4)

| Frequency [Hz] | At Reference Point C | At Reference Point B | Test Duration [s] |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Frequency [Hz] | Sine wave amplitude [ns] | Dynamic Time Error [ns] (Note 1) | Constant Time Error [ns] | Dynamic Time Error [ns] (Note 2) | Test Duration [s] |  |  |
| 0.003362 | 214 | 428 | 886 | 30 | 60 | 70 | 595 (2 periods) |
| 0.010 | 165 | 330 | 935 | 19 | 38 | 81 | 500 (5 periods) |
| 0.100 | 141 | 282 | 959 | 13 | 26 | 87 | 50 (5 periods) |

- An alternative and more representative method for reference point C is to apply a noise pattern that meets the network limit mask defined in ITU-T G.8271.1 [7], Table 7-1/Figure 7-2.  This method is described in ITU-T G.8273.2 [26] Appendix IX.  The advantage of this is that it is more representative of real network conditions and transients, and therefore a more effective test of the O-DU under emulated network conditions.  The pattern can be constructed to include both dTE and cTE consistent with the limits for maximum time error at the input to the O-DU.
- Maximum 0.1Hz low pass filtered frequency error for LLS-C1 and LLS-C2 on PTP and SyncE (see Note 1) ±15 ppb for class A O-DU ±5 ppb for class B O-DU
- Maximum 0.1Hz low pass filtered time error (see Note 1) ±1420ns for LLS-C1 on PTP. ±1325ns for LLS-C2 on PTP. ±1500ns for LLS-C3 and LLS-C4 on the measurement point (optional) (see Note 5).

### Performance test of O-DU Synchronized from Embedded GNSS receiver (LLS-C1/C2/C3/C4)

Test Description and Applicability

This test scope is relevant to LLS-C1 to LLS-C4.

This test is CONDITIONAL-MANDATORY. This test is mandatory if the DUT contains an O-DU with an embedded local PRTC using a GNSS receiver (see case a in Figure 3.3.1-1).

This test validates that an O-DU correctly synchronizes to incoming timing information, from a CUSM-plane Emulator which is emulating a GNSS transmitter’s RF signal. The DUT shall contain a GNSS receiver, either embedded within the O-DU, or directly connected to the O-DU.  The CUSM-E may be configured to inject either ideal or normal operating condition noise into the timing information. Frequency and time error measured at the output of the O-DU must be within specified limits, which may differ between LLS-C1-C4 configurations.  NOTE: Configuring the CUSM-E to inject normal operating condition noise is for further study.

This test covers the two classes defined by CUS -plane spec for LLS -C1 and LLS -C2 (class A has ±15 ppb frequency error limit; class B has ±5 ppb limit).

The test intent is to exercise S-Plane performance under ideal and a typical/normal operating condition.  The test is not intended to exercise worst case conditions. It is the vendor’s responsibility to make sure that limits defined in the test are also met in worse-case field conditions.  Variable temperature, degraded GNSS reception (degraded sky view, multipath, jamming, spoofing etc.), holdover and transients are beyond the scope of the CUS-Plane specification [2].

This test is defined assuming a Full Timing Support (FTS) profile on all PTP ports.  Partial timing support is left for further study.

- Test Entrance Criteria
Conformance Functional test 3.3.6 has successfully passed.

O-DU is connected to CUSM-Plane Emulator’s GNSS time reference RF interface.

- Test Methodology
These tests configure the DUT (O-DU) using the using any available method.  The O-DU configuration depends on which LLS-C1-C4 topologies are to be tested.

For LLS-C1 and LLS-C2 configuration, the test is set up to measure frequency and time error on one of the Ethernet master fronthaul ports of the DUT.

For LLS-C3 and LLS-C4 configuration, the test is configured to measure time error on a measurement port of the O-DU, typically a 1PPS signal if available or an unused Ethernet port configured as a PTP master.

CUSM-Plane Emulator is configured to act as a GNSS transmitter, with time reference which is traceable to UTC.

Once the DUT has been configured, the DUT shall have achieved frequency and phase lock prior to starting the test.

- Procedure:
Unlike the functional test defined in clause 3.3.2, where start-up / nominal / degraded scenarios are tested, only nominal scenarios with ideal and normal operation input noise are tested. The test procedure is the same for both ideal and normal scenarios, the only difference is the noise settings for the timing source.

Ideal Operation: The time source provides “ideal” O-DU synchronization input with no implicitly added dynamic or constant time error.

Normal Operation: This test is for further study

- Pass/Fail Criteria (expected results)
The measured results for Ideal and Normal Operation Cases shall be less than or equal to these values:

Maximum 0.1Hz low pass filtered frequency error for LLS-C1 and LLS-C2  ±15 ppb for class A O-DU ±5 ppb for class B O-DU

Maximum 0.1Hz low pass filtered time error  ±1420ns for LLS-C1. ±1325ns for LLS-C2. ±1500ns for LLS-C3 and LLS-C4.

NOTE: This test as currently defined does not provide any allowances for measurement error. It is left to the tester to factor in any errors based on the test equipment used. Defining the allowed measurement error is for future study.

### Performance test of O-RU using ITU-T G.8275.1 Profile (LLS-C1/C2/C3), additional tests for cascaded O-RUs

In addition to tests described in clause 3.3.3, the full validation of an O-RU that is deployed in the synchronization path in cascaded O-RU mode requires the implementation of additional tests. In particular, as per 11.2.2.2 of O-RAN CUS Specification [2], if deployed in this mode, the O-RU shall also implement Recommendation ITU-T G.8273.2 [26], T-BC or Recommendation ITU-T G.8273.3 [28]T-TC.  Therefore, further performance testing to ensure conformance to either or both of those recommendations shall be performed in addition to this performance test.

Details of the additional tests are not yet specified. Until details of the test case to be used are specified in the present document, the tester shall verify proper T-BC and/or T-TC functionality according to ITU-T G.8273.2 [26]and/or ITU-T G.8273.3 [28] utilizing additional test cases that can verify compliance with these Recommendations. These measurement results along with details of the test executed shall be documented in the test report.

## UC-Plane Measurements O-DU

### UC-Plane Tests

This clause describes conformance test scenarios for O-DU equipment implementing the U-Plane and C-Plane O-RAN option 7.2x protocols.  In these set of tests, the device under test (DUT) is either a stand-alone O-DU, or a combined O-CU + O-DU from a single vendor.  Throughout this clause, we may refer to the DUT generically as the O-DU for brevity, keeping in mind that there are these two potential DUT variants.

Clause 2.2 outlines the test configuration for the O-DU tests in this clause and provides an overview of the Test Equipment O-DU (TED) required to conduct the tests.  The following are the generic test steps to be used, although specific tests may deviate from this general procedure:

- Configure the Test Equipment, O-DU (TED) for test execution, which may include defining the specific test to execute. This includes configuring the various components comprising the TED:
- Configure the Core Emulator (and O-CU Emulator in the case of a stand-alone O-DU DUT) and the X2 signalling emulator for NSA mode such that it is ready to communicate with the DUT via the appropriate interfaces for the specific test scenario
- Configure the O-RU + UE Emulator such that it is ready to communicate to the DUT over the CUSM-planes of the open fronthaul interface for the specific test scenario, which may include configuring the O-RU emulator to emulate a certain type of O-RU, e.g. CAT-A, CAT-B, TDD, FDD; and configuring the UE emulator appropriately such that it can connect to the network for the specific test scenario
- Configure the O-DU DUT via the O1 (if available) or EMS interface to provision the DUT in order to place it into the appropriate modes to exercise the specific scenario and features under test.  Note that these should not be special test modes but are instead production modes that are used for provisioning the commercial O-DU to support various deployment configurations
- Instruct the UE Emulator to initiate a connection with the O-DU DUT through the O-RU emulator via the open fronthaul interface and on to the rest of the emulated network via the F1 interface
- Observe that the UE Emulator successfully attaches to the network and has successful data communications in both the downlink and uplink
- Perform detailed observation and analysis of the front haul data stream of the O-DU DUT in order to ascertain compliance to the specifications.

### Minimum Capabilities of the TED for U-Plane and C-Plane Tests

Since many features of the O-RAN protocol rely on the O-DU instructing the O-RU to put data in specific resource blocks using a specific compression method it is imperative that the test equipment support features that allow detailed observation and analysis of the front haul data stream.  Furthermore, since the O-DU is meant to support various classes of O-RU with different feature sets, e.g. CAT-A or CAT-B, FR1 or FR2, different beamforming methods to multiple UEs, different compression schemes, etc., it is important that the TED has the flexibility to effectively emulate the various scenarios in a robust and repeatable manner in order to test the various features.  As noted in Sec 2.2, this specification does not preclude the use of the commercial equivalent elements instead of emulators, but must support a level of configurability and repeatability to ensure that the required features in the O-DU front-haul are effectively and repeatably exercised.  With use of either node emulators or commercial equivalents, the required test outcomes and reports must be effectively and repeatably reproduced.  The rest of this clause shall assume emulators are used for brevity of description.

#### Core + O-CU Emulator for Testing a Stand-alone O-DU DUT

Must have the capability of emulating and observing the appropriate signals at the F1 interface that enables the O-DU DUT to support connecting with the UE Emulator through the O-RU Emulator via the open front haul

Must have the capability of supporting the various modes that the O-DU DUT shall be provisioned to via the O1 or EMS interface for the various test cases and scenarios

#### Core Emulator for Testing a Combined O-CU + O-DU DUT

Must have the capability of emulating an EPC (NSA/LTE) or NGC (SA) and observing the appropriate signals at the NG (SA) or S1 (NSA) interface that enables the O-DU DUT to support connecting with the UE Emulator through the O-RU Emulator via the open front haul

Must have the capability of supporting the various modes that the O-DU DUT shall be provisioned to via the O1 or EMS interface for the various test cases and scenarios

#### X2 Signalling Emulator for NSA

- Must have the capability of emulating the signalling over the X2 interface to the O-CU Emulator for the case of testing a Stand-alone O-DU DUT, or to the actual O-CU for the case of testing combined O-CU+O-DU DUT, in order to support an NSA connection
Must have the capability of supporting the various modes that the O-DU DUT shall be provisioned to via the O1 or EMS interface for the various test cases and scenarios

#### O-RU Emulator

Must have the capability of emulating various types of O-RUs in order to exercise the various features of the open front haul of the O-DU DUT

Must be able to be synchronized with the O-DU DUT to ensure proper timing of uplink C-Plane and U-Plane messages

Must be able to observe and analyze the front haul data stream of the O-DU DUT in order to ascertain compliance to the specifications of the specific test scenario

#### UE Emulator

- Must have the capability of emulating a UE (or multiple UEs in the case of beamforming tests) that can successfully complete a connection with the O-DU DUT all the way through to the Core Emulator
- Must be able to connect with the O-RU Emulator through a digital or RF interface
Must be able to observe and analyze the state of the connection and the uplink and downlink throughput in order to ascertain the successful connection with the network through the O-DU DUT

#### Test Configurator through O1 or EMS Interface

- Must be able to interface with the O1 (if available) or EMS interface of the O-DU DUT
- Must be able to setup test scenarios and coordinate the entities in the TED to perform the required test scenarios

### UC-Plane O-DU Test Scenarios

#### UC-Plane O-DU Scenario Class NR testing Generic (NRG)

The purpose of the tests in this clause are to ensure that the O-DU DUT supports the mandatory open front haul features of the specification as defined in the O-RAN CUS Specification [2], Table 10.2-1.

##### UC-Plane O-DU Scenario Class Base CAT-A O-RU

Test Description and Applicability

This test is MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure that the O-DU can meet the most basic requirements of the O-RAN fronthaul to support connecting with a CAT-A O-RU with no beamforming and 16-bit fixed point IQ format.

Test Entrance Criteria

The O-DU DUT must be provisioned to connect with a CAT-A O-RU for 5G New Radio and be able to synchronize with the O-RU emulator of the TED.  The O-DU DUT could use any of the NR profiles for CAT-A O-RU as specified in the Fronthaul Interoperability Test Specification [25] in Annex A.2 (except using 16-bit fixed point IQ format), or any other suitable profile that satisfies the test scenario.

Test Methodology

- Initial Conditions
Configure the O-DU DUT such that it is ready to accept a UE connection through its interfaces with the appropriate entities in the TED.  Configure the O-RU Emulator to be a CAT-A O-RU with no beamforming and 16-bit fixed point IQ format.

- Procedure
- Instruct the UE Emulator to initiate a connection with the O-DU DUT through the O-RU emulator
- Initiate data transmission on both the downlink and uplink
- Log and analyze the open front haul data stream between the O-DU DUT and O-RU Emulator including used Section Types and section extensions
Test Requirement (expected result)

Non-zero data throughput in both uplink and downlink is observed

Log of Section Types and section extensions successfully used

##### UC-Plane O-DU Scenario Class Base CAT-B O-RU

Test Description and Applicability

This test is MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure that the O-DU can meet the most basic requirements of the O-RAN fronthaul to support connecting with a CAT-B O-RU with beam-index based beamforming and 16-bit fixed point IQ format.

Test Entrance Criteria

The O-DU DUT must be provisioned to connect with a CAT-B O-RU for 5G New Radio and be able to synchronize with the O-RU emulator of the TED.  The O-DU DUT could use any of the NR profiles for a CAT-B O-RU as specified in the Fronthaul Interoperability Test Specification [25], e.g. Annex A.2 (except using 16-bit fixed point IQ format), or any other suitable profile that satisfies the test scenario.

Test Methodology

- Initial Conditions
Configure the O-DU DUT such that it is ready to accept a UE connection through its interfaces with the appropriate entities in the TED.  Configure the O-RU Emulator to be a CAT-B O-RU with beam-index based beamforming and 16-bit fixed point IQ format.

- Procedure
- Instruct the UE Emulator to initiate a connection with the O-DU DUT through the O-RU emulator
- Initiate data transmission on both the downlink and uplink
- Log and analyze the open front haul data stream between the O-DU DUT and O-RU Emulator including used Section Types and section extensions
Test Requirement (expected result)

Non-zero data throughput in both uplink and downlink is observed

Log of Section Types and section extensions successfully used

#### UC-Plane O-DU Scenario Class Beamforming (BFM)

This clause describes beamforming conformance tests for O-RAN fronthaul interface on the O-DU. The tests do not aim to test the O-DU beamforming performance or general capabilities.   The conformance tests are designed to validate that the O-DU correctly describes the Beamforming methods via C-plane messages according to the O-RAN Fronthaul interface spec. The tests are configured following the outline in the clause 2.2 description of the TED.

As noted earlier in clause 2.2, the O-DU is assumed to be a commercial product that may support a limited set of  configurations.  Therefore, these beamforming tests will present a suggested method for evaluating protocol conformance.  The tester may choose other configurations which also clearly evaluate the conformance of the O-DU to the same protocol syntax and semantics.

##### UC-Plane O-DU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP – Predefined-beam Beamforming

- Test Description and Applicability
This test is MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to validate the basic operation of the O-DU DUT when configured to use predefined-beams in a O-RU.

Test Entrance Criteria

The O-DU DUT must be provisioned to connect with an O-RU for 5G New Radio and be able to synchronize to a common sync source with the O-RU emulator of the TED.  The O-DU DUT could use any of the NR BF profiles for O-RU as specified in the Fronthaul Interoperability Test Specification [25] in Annex A.2 (except using 16-bit fixed point IQ format), or any other suitable profile that satisfies the test scenario.

The O-DU DUT must exercise at least two different beams to serve at least two SS Blocks (SSBs) and beam sweeping.  The two beams under test, i.e. beam=A and beam=B, can have neither a vector size of one (i.e. only contains a single beam weight value) nor have identical beam weight values (i.e. no beamforming).   Additionally, O-DU DUT cannot assign beamId=0x0000 (i.e. no beamforming) to any of the two beams when sending beamforming information to the O-RU emulator. The O-DU might retrieve a list of O-RU beam capabilities to be able to generate beam weight vectors supported by the O-RU emulator. The O-DU DUT will use at least any two set of beam weight vectors to converge beamforming information to the O-RU emulator along with the test vectors (IQ data) containing SSB.

The O-RU emulator must be configured to report support for weight-based beamforming in the M-Plane capabilities to allow the O-DU DUT to use weight-based beamforming.  It is assumed that the O-DU can be configured in some way to force the use of dynamic weight-based beamforming.

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-DU DUT such that it carries out the use of SSBs and beam sweeping through its interfaces with the appropriate entities in the TED.  Configure the O-RU Emulator with weight-based beamforming and 16-bit fixed point IQ format.

Procedure

O-DU DUT starts broadcasting procedure and beam sweeping

Log and analyze the open front haul data stream between the O-DU DUT and O-RU Emulator including used Section Types and section extensions

Test Requirement (expected result)

Successful decoding of SSBs

Log of at least two different assigned beamIds (i.e. beamId=A and beamId=B) are used and none of them are beamId=0x0000

Log of at least two different assigned beam weight vectors are used for beam=A and beam=B.

##### UC-Plane O-DU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP – Weight-based Beamforming

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure that the O-DU can meet the most basic requirements of the O-RAN fronthaul to support connecting with a O-RU emulator with weight-based beamforming. This test exercises the beamId field found in the C-plane section descriptions as well as section extension = 1 to converge beamforming information to the O-RU emulator of TED.

Test Entrance Criteria

The O-DU DUT must be provisioned to connect with an O-RU for 5G New Radio and is synchronized with the O-RU emulator of the TED.  The O-DU DUT could use any of the NR BF profiles for O-RU as specified in the Fronthaul Interoperability Test Specification [25] in Annex A.2 (except using 16-bit fixed point IQ format), or any other suitable profile that satisfies the test scenario.

The O-DU must exercise at least two different DL beams. In matrix form, the column dimension of the beam weights, as defined in Section Extension Type 1 defined in the O-RAN CUS Specification [2] clause 7.7.1., corresponds to the number of beamIds, and the row dimension to the number of TRXs of the O-RU emulator. The number of beamIds must be greater than or equal to 2. Additionally, O-DU DUT cannot assign beamId=0x0000 (i.e. no beamforming) to any of the two beams when sending beamforming information to the O-RU emulator.

The O-DU might retrieve a list of O-RU beam capabilities to be able to generate beam weight vectors (i.e. columns of the beam weight matrix) supported by the O-RU emulator. The O-DU DUT will use at least two beam weight vectors to convey beamforming information to the O-RU emulator along with the test vectors (IQ data).

The O-RU emulator must be configured to report support for weight-based beamforming in the M-Plane capabilities to allow the O-DU DUT to use weight-based beamforming.  It is assumed that the O-DU can be configured in some way to force the use of dynamic weight-based beamforming.

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-DU DUT such that it carries out the broadcasting of common control channels (e.g. SSB) through its interfaces with the appropriate entities in the TED.  Configure the O-RU Emulator with weight-based beamforming and 16-bit fixed point IQ format.

Procedure

O-DU DUT starts broadcasting procedure and beam sweeping

Log and analyze the open front haul data stream between the O-DU DUT and O-RU Emulator including used Section Types and section extensions

Test Requirement (expected result)

Successful decoding of one or more SSBs

Log of at least two different assigned beamIds (i.e. beamId=A and beamId=B) are used and none of them are beamId=0x0000

Log of at least two different assigned beam weight vectors are used for beam=A and beam=B.

##### UC-Plane O-DU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP – DMRS-BF-NEQ

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY for DMRS-BF capable O-DU.

The purpose of this test is to ensure that the O-DU can meet protocol conformance on the O-RAN fronthaul to support DMRS-based beamforming without equalization in the O-RU (DMRS-BF-NEQ). It will exercise all the mandatory C-plane section types and extensions required for supporting DMRS-BF-NEQ. An overview of the TED for DMRS-BF is provided in figure 3.4.4.2.3-1.

The O-RU emulator simulates NEQ and EQ outputs when acting as NEQ O-RU and EQ O-RU. It is expected that NEQ O-RU and EQ O-RU outputs are different.

Figure 3.4.4.2.3-1 TED for DMRS-BF

Test Entrance Criteria

The O-DU DUT is provisioned to connect with an O-RU emulator for 5G New Radio and is synchronized with the O-RU emulator of the TED. A single UE emulator which can support at least 2 layers is attached to or included within the O-RU emulator. The O-RU emulator supports DMRS-BF-NEQ in the M-Plane capabilities and establishes conditions that will increase the likelihood of the O-DU DUT choosing to enter DMRS-BF mode (e.g. high UL data rate).

When operating in DMRS-BF mode, the O-DU DUT will convey user group scheduling and multiple port configuration to the O-RU emulator using ST5 and SE10 respectively, where SE10 uses beamGroupType 10b or 11b. The O-DU DUT will convey the DMRS configuration using SE24. The O-RU emulator validates the DMRS configuration sent by the O-DU DUT against the DMRS configuration of the UE emulator.

If configured, the O-DU DUT may send an ST11 RRM measurement request to the O-RU emulator and receive an ST10 measurement report in response from the O-RU emulator. The O-RU emulator captures and logs the ST10 packets that it sends out in response to the SE24 M-Plane configuration that it receives.

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-DU DUT such that it is ready to accept a UE connection through its interfaces with the appropriate entities in the TED

Configure the O-RU emulator for DMRS-BF-NEQ

Procedure

Start the O-DU DUT and O-RU emulator M-plane setup (advertise and configure)

O-DU DUT sends C-plane data request with scheduling decision for each user group (ST5) along with DMRS (SE24) and multiple port configuration (SE10)

O-RU emulator receives PUSCH from UE emulator and sends U-Plane data to the O-DU

Log and analyze the open fronthaul data stream between the O-DU DUT and O-RU emulator including the used section types and section extensions

Test Requirement (expected result)

O-DU DUT successfully decodes PUSCH transmissions (PN9 data payload), verified by NDI bit toggle and no retransmission requests to the UE emulator attached to the O-RU emulator

O-RU emulator reports valid DMRS configurations from the O-DU DUT that match the UE emulator configurations

All the logged C-plane messages and measurement reports are captured and valid

##### UC-Plane O-DU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP – DMRS-BF-EQ

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY for DMRS-BF capable O-DU.

The purpose of this test is to ensure that the O-DU can meet protocol conformance on the O-RAN fronthaul to support DMRS-based beamforming with equalization in the O-RU (DMRS-BF-EQ). It will exercise all the mandatory C-plane section types and extensions required for supporting DMRS-BF-EQ. An overview of the TED for DMRS-BF is provided in figure 3.4.4.2.3-1.

The O-RU emulator simulates NEQ and EQ outputs when acting as NEQ O-RU and EQ O-RU. It is expected that NEQ O-RU and EQ O-RU outputs are different.

Test Entrance Criteria

The O-DU DUT is provisioned to connect with an O-RU emulator for 5G New Radio and is synchronized with the O-RU emulator of the TED. A single UE emulator which can support at least 2 layers is attached to or included within the O-RU emulator. The O-RU emulator reports support for both DMRS-BF-EQ in the M-Plane capabilities and establishes conditions that will increase the likelihood of the O-DU DUT choosing to enter DMRS-BF mode (e.g. high UL data rate).

The O-DU DUT will convey user group scheduling and multiple port configuration to the O-RU emulator using ST5 and SE10 respectively, where SE10 uses beamGroupType 10b or 11b. The O-DU DUT will convey the DMRS configuration and any RRM requests (excluding unallocated IPN) using SE24. The O-RU validates the DMRS configuration sent by the O-DU DUT against the DMRS configuration of the UE emulator.

If configured, the O-DU DUT sends ST11 RRM measurement requests to the O-RU emulator and receives ST10 measurement reports in response. The O-RU captures and logs the ST10 packets that it sends out in response to the SE24 or ST11 packets that it receives.

The O-DU DUT can request either SINR reports or port reduced DMRS; as such, the O-RU logs and captures either the SINR data sent via ST9 or the port reduced DMRS data. The O-DU DUT will receive ST9 SINR reports as per the configured M-plane cadence. The tester will select channel conditions for the TED that ensure successful decoding of PUSCH transmissions at the O-DU DUT.

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-DU DUT such that it is ready to accept a UE connection through its interfaces with the appropriate entities in the TED

Configure the O-RU emulator for DMRS-BF-EQ

Procedure

Start the O-DU DUT and O-RU emulator M-plane setup (advertise and configure)

O-DU DUT sends C-plane data request with scheduling decision for each user group (ST5) along with DMRS and RRM measurement requests (SE24) and multiple port configuration (SE10)

O-DU DUT triggers unallocated IPN RRM requests via ST11, if configured, and correctly receives ST10 and ST9 responses

O-RU emulator receives PUSCH from UE emulator and sends U-Plane data to the O-DU

Log and analyze the open fronthaul data stream between the O-DU DUT and O-RU emulator including the used section types and section extensions

Test Requirement (expected result)

O-DU DUT successfully decodes PUSCH transmissions (PN9 data payload) from the UE emulator, verified by NDI bit toggle and no retransmission requests to the UE attached to the O-RU emulator.

O-RU emulator reports valid DMRS configurations from the O-DU DUT that match the UE configurations.

All the logged C-plane messages and measurement reports are captured and valid.

#### UC-Plane O-DU Scenario Class Compression (CMP)

This clause validates the correct implementation of mandatory and conditional mandatory IQ data compression formats in [2].

It applies to the following O-RAN CUS Specification [2].

Clause 7.4 for layout of C-Plane message, in particular Section Type 1

Clause 7.5.2.10 for applicability of “udCompHdr” and “reserved” fields

Clause 8.3.2 for layout of DL/UL Data

Clause 8.3.3.13/14/15 for applicability of udCompParam

The objective is to test the mandatory and conditional mandatory compression capabilities of  a O-RAN compliant O-DU. These include:

Mandatory: Static Fixed-Point Uncompressed 16-bit IQ

Conditional Mandatory: Static Block floating point compression – 9, 12 & 14-bit mantissa

Overview of Compression Test Methodology

For both downlink and uplink testing, the test will validate that non-zero user data throughput is achieved in both directions and that the section headers for CU plane in the downlink are consistent with the specification [2].

To maximise coverage on the compressed IQ mantissa value, the test frame will use the highest possible modulation supported by the O-DU.  The preferred value is 256 QAM modulation for downlink and uplink.

Presence/Absence of CU-Plane Header measurements (downlink only): Validate that the fields udCompHdr, and “reserved” are absent in downlink U-Plane. For Static Block Floating Point Compression, only udCompParam is present in downlink U-Plane. For downlink C-Plane, validate that the udCompHdr is set to 0.

##### Static Format Fixed-Point (FP) Uncompressed

Test Description and Applicability

This test is MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to:

Validate correct format of Control Plane Section Header

udCompHdr set to 0x0

Validate that in the data section header, udCompHdr, “reserved”, and udCompParam fields are not present

Validate correct encoding/decoding of IQ data

Fixed point 16 Bit IQ data format

Uplink / downlink

The purpose of this test is to ensure that the O-DU can meet the mandatory requirements of the O-RAN fronthaul to support compression.

Test Entrance Criteria

The O-DU DUT must be provisioned to connect with a O-RU for 5G New Radio and be able to synchronize with the O-RU emulator or real O-RU.  The O-DU DUT could use any of the NR profiles as specified in the Fronthaul Interoperability Test Specification [25],  Annex A.2.  Compression is further adjusted as described below.

Test Methodology

- Initial Conditions
- Configure the O-DU DUT such that it is ready to accept a UE connection through its interfaces with the appropriate entities in the TED.
- Configure O-DU for 16-bit fixed point IQ format.
- Configure the O-RU Emulator with 16-bit fixed point IQ format.
- Procedure
- Instruct the UE Emulator or UE to initiate a connection with the O-DU DUT through the O-RU emulator or O-RU
- Initiate data transmission on both the downlink and uplink.
- Record the total throughput in each direction for comparison in additional test cases.
- Note any errors reported by the O-RU emulator for downlink compression.  Alternatively, using the log information from the O-RU emulator, analyze the open front haul data stream between the O-DU DUT and O-RU Emulator to confirm proper transmission of the downlink U-Plane data with 16-bit fixed point format.
- Analyze any C-Plane errors reported by the O-RU emulator related to compression or sample the log file to validate compression header information.
Test Requirement (expected result)

Validate that the Control Plane Section Header has udCompHdr set to 0x0

Validate that udCompHdr, “reserved” and udCompParam fields are absent in Downlink Data Section Header

Non-zero data throughput in both uplink and downlink is observed

There are no errors in step 4 of the procedure

##### UC-Plane O-DU Scenario Class Compression (CMP) Static Format Block Floating Point

Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONALMANDATORY and shall be performed if the emulated O-RU or real O-RU supports this compression format.

The static format test scenario for Block Floating Point Format will verify DL and UL correct encoding of IQ information for 3 supported bit widths: 9, 14 or 12 bits.

The purpose of this test is to:

Validate correct format of Control Plane Section Header

udCompHdr set to 0x00

Validate that in the data section header, udCompHdr and “reserved” fields are not present

Validate correct encoding/decoding of IQ data

9 bits IQ Data

14 bits IQ Data

12 bits IQ Data

Uplink / downlink

Test Entrance Criteria

The O-DU DUT must be provisioned to connect with a O-RU for 5G New Radio and be able to synchronize with the O-RU emulator or real O-RU.  The O-DU DUT could use any of the NR profiles as specified in the Fronthaul Interoperability Test Specification [25],  Annex A.2.  Compression is further adjusted as described below.

Test Methodology

- Initial Conditions
- Configure the O-DU DUT such that it is ready to accept a UE connection through its interfaces with the appropriate entities in the TED.
- Procedure
- Configure O-DU for 14-bit Static Format BFP Compression.
- Configure the O-RU for 14-bit Static Format BFP Compression.
- Instruct the UE Emulator or UE to initiate a connection with the O-DU DUT through the O-RU emulator or O-RU
- Initiate data transmission on both the downlink and uplink.
- Record the total throughput in each direction and validate that user data throughput is non-zero.
- Note any errors reported by the O-RU emulator for downlink compression.  Alternatively, using the log information from the O-RU emulator, analyze the open front haul data stream between the O-DU DUT and O-RU Emulator to confirm proper transmission of the downlink U-Plane data.
- Analyze any C-Plane errors reported by the O-RU emulator related to compression or sample the log file to validate compression header information.
- Repeat steps 1- 7 with the configuration set to 9 bit Static Format Block Floating Point
- Repeat steps 1- 7 with the configuration set to 12 bit Static Format Block Floating Point
Test Requirement (expected result)

Step 5 in each repetition meet the expected results

Steps 6 and 7 for each repetition do not show any errors

#### UC-Plane O-DU Scenario Class Delay Management (DLM)

##### Delay Management On-time arrival

Test Description and Applicability

This test is MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to ensure that the O-DU can meet basic requirements of the O-RAN fronthaul to support configured delay management parameters for transmissions from the O-DU to the O-RU for the C-Plane and U-Plane protocol.  To exercise both the downlink O-DU adherence to the configured delay management and the required counters on the O-DU related to delay management in the uplink, a UE in connected mode is required.

Test Entrance Criteria

The O-DU DUT must be provisioned to connect with a O-RU for 5G New Radio and be able to synchronize with the O-RU emulator or real O-RU.  The O-DU DUT could use any of the NR profiles as specified in the Fronthaul Interoperability Test Specification [25],  Annex A.2.   The counters defined in the O-RAN CUS Specification [2], Table 9.1-1, for on-time reception on the O-DU must be supported and accessible.

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-DU DUT such that it is ready to accept a UE connection through its interfaces with the appropriate entities in the TED.  Configure the O-RU emulator per the parameters of the chosen IOT profile. Using the M-Plane or other manual methods, configure the delay parameters in the O-RAN CUS Specification [2], Table 4.4.3-1 to achieve proper timing on the O-RU emulator.

Procedure

Clear the O-DU delay management receive counters or note the current value.

Instruct the UE Emulator to initiate a connection with the O-DU DUT through the O-RU emulator

Initiate data transmission on both the downlink and uplink

Validate that the O-DU adheres to the downlink delay management parameters using the O-RU emulator receive counters for on-time, early and late arrival for the C-Plane and the U-Plane for each configured eAxC.

Validate that the O-DU receive counters for on-time arrival for the C-Plane and the U-Plane for each configured eAxC increment as expected and that early and late counters remain unchanged (e.g. 0 if the test started with these counters at 0).

Test Requirement (expected result)

O-DU receive (uplink) counters (RX_ON_TIME, RX_EARLY, RX_LATE, RX_ON_TIME) for each configured eAxC for the U-Plane are observed.  Only RX_ON_TIME should show non-zero values or changed values if the counters could not be cleared.

O-RU emulator (downlink) receive counters report that only on-time PDUs are received. No early or late PDUs are received.

##### Delay Management Early Arrival and Late Arrival

Test Description and Applicability

This test is MANDATORY.

The purpose of this test is to validate the operation of the O-DU delay management receive counters for the C-Plane and U-Plane protocol .  To exercise these counters, a UE in connected mode is required.

Test Entrance Criteria

The O-DU DUT must be provisioned to connect with a O-RU for 5G New Radio and be able to synchronize with the O-RU emulator or real O-RU.  The O-DU DUT could use any of the NR profiles as specified in the Fronthaul Interoperability Test Specification [25], Annex A.2.   The counters in the O-RAN CUS Specification [2], Table 9.1-1 for on-time reception on the O-DU must be supported and accessible.

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

Configure the O-DU DUT such that it is ready to accept a UE connection through its interfaces with the appropriate entities in the TED.  Configure the O-RU emulator per the parameters of the chosen IOT profile. Using the M-Plane or other manual methods, for the appropriate step below, configure the delay parameters in the O-RAN CUS Specification [2], Table 4.4.3-1 to force early or late PDU transmission of the U-Plane PDUs to the O-DU.

Procedure

Clear the O-DU delay management receive counters or note the current value

Force the O-RU emulator to send U-Plane PDUs to the O-DU “early” such that they arrive at the O-DU outside the receive window.

Instruct the UE Emulator to initiate a connection with the O-DU DUT through the O-RU emulator.

Initiate data transmission on both the downlink and uplink

Validate that the O-DU counters for RX_EARLY for U-Plane for each configured eAxC are incrementing.

Clear the O-DU delay management receive counters or note the current value

Force the O-RU emulator to send U-Plane PDUs to the O-DU “late” such that they arrive at the O-DU outside the receive window.

Instruct the UE Emulator to initiate a connection with the O-DU DUT through the O-RU emulator.

Initiate data transmission on both the downlink and uplink

Validate that the O-DU counters for RX_LATE for U-Plane for each configured eAxC are incrementing.

Test Requirement (expected result)

Steps 5 and 10 show the expected counter(s) incremented

## Shared-Cell Test Scenarios

This clause describes conformance test scenarios for devices supporting Shared-Cell as defined in [2].  In the present document, only devices supporting the Fronthaul Multiplexor (FHM) mode are considered.

### FHM mode Tests

In this set of tests for Shared Cell, the device under test (DUT) is FHM and is connected to Test Equipment Fronthaul Multiplexor (TEM) with multiple O-RU capabilities as described in clause 2.3.

#### FHM M-Plane Tests

FHM uses the same architecture model defined in clause 5.1.2 of [3].  Therefore, many tests described in this clause are references to previously defined tests in clause 3.1.  Table 3.5.1.1-1 summarize all M-Plane tests for the FHM.  The table also indicates if the specific test case is a reference to existing tests defined in clause 3.1 and if the target NETCONF server is on the FHM or on a south node.

Table 3.5.1.1-1

| Test Clause | Clause 3.1 Test Case | FHM Test Requirement Status | M-Plane Server | Test Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 3.5.1.1.1 | 3.1.1.1 | CONDITIONAL MANDATORY | FHM | Transport and Handshake in IPv4/SSH Environment (positive case) |
| 3.5.1.1.2 | 3.1.1.2 | CONDITIONAL MANDATORY | FHM | Transport and Handshake in IPv4/SSH Environment (negative case) |
| 3.5.1.1.3 | 3.1.1.3 | CONDITIONAL MANDATORY | FHM | Transport and Handshake in IPv6/SSH Environment (positive case) |
| 3.5.1.1.4 | 3.1.1.4 | CONDITIONAL MANDATORY | FHM | Transport and Handshake in IPv6/SSH Environment (negative case) |
| 3.5.1.1.5 | 3.1.1.5 | CONDITIONAL MANDATORY | FHM | Transport and Handshake in IPv4/TLS Environment (positive case) |
| 3.5.1.1.6 | 3.1.1.6 | CONDITIONAL MANDATORY | FHM | Transport and Handshake in IPv4/TLS Environment (negative case) |
| 3.5.1.1.7 | 3.1.1.7 | CONDITIONAL MANDATORY | FHM | Transport and Handshake in IPv6/TLS Environment (positive case) |
| 3.5.1.1.8 | 3.1.1.8 | CONDITIONAL MANDATORY | FHM | Transport and Handshake in IPv6/TLS Environment (negative case) |
| 3.5.1.1.9 | N/A | MANDATORY | FHM | Retrieval of FHM Information (positive case) |
| 3.5.1.1.10 | N/A | MANDATORY | FHM | Retrieval of FHM Information (negative case) |
| 3.5.1.1.11 | N/A | MANDATORY | FHM | U-Plane Configuration and Shared Cell Configuration |
| 3.5.1.1.12 | N/A | MANDATORY | South-Node | MPlane Passthrough Uplane Configuration for South Node RU(positive case) |
| 3.5.1.1.13 | N/A | MANDATORY | South-Node | MPlane Passthrough Uplane Configuration for South Node RU(negative case) |
| 3.5.1.1.14 | N/A | MANDATORY | FHM | Performance Management |
| 3.5.1.1.15 | N/A | MANDATORY | FHM | Delay Management |
| 3.5.1.1.16 | 3.1.6.1 | MANDATORY | FHM | Software Update (positive case) |
| 3.5.1.1.17 | 3.1.6.2 | MANDATORY | FHM | Software Update (negative case) |
| 3.5.1.1.18 | 3.1.7.1 | MANDATORY | FHM | Software Activation without Reset |
| 3.5.1.1.19 | 3.1.7.2 | MANDATORY | FHM | Supplemental Reset after Software Activation |
| 3.5.1.1.20 | N/A | MANDATORY | FHM | File Management Operation: Upload |
| 3.5.1.1.21 | N/A | MANDATORY | FHM | File Management Operation: Retrieve the list |
| 3.5.1.1.22 | N/A | MANDATORY | FHM | File Management Operation: Download |
| 3.5.1.1.23 | 3.1.2 | MANDATORY | FHM | Subscription to Notifications |
| 3.5.1.1.24 | 3.1.5.1 | MANDATORY | FHM | O-RU Alarm Notification Generation |
| 3.5.1.1.25 | 3.1.5.2 | MANDATORY | FHM | Retrieval of Active Alarm List |
| 3.5.1.1.26 | 3.1.3.1 | CONDITIONAL MANDATORY | FHM | M-Plane Connection Supervision (positive case) |
| 3.5.1.1.27 | 3.1.3.2 | CONDITIONAL MANDATORY | FHM | M-Plane Connection Supervision (negative case) |
| 3.5.1.1.28 | 3.1.8.1 | CONDITIONAL MANDATORY | FHM | Sudo on Hybrid M-plane Architecture (positive case) |
| 3.5.1.1.29 | 3.1.8.2 | CONDITIONAL MANDATORY | FHM | Access Control Sudo (negative case) |
| 3.5.1.1.30 | 3.1.8.3 | CONDITIONAL MANDATORY | FHM | Access Control NMS (negative case) |
| 3.5.1.1.31 | 3.1.8.4 | CONDITIONAL MANDATORY | FHM | Access Control FM-PM (negative case) |
| 3.5.1.1.32 | 3.1.8.5 | CONDITIONAL MANDATORY | FHM | Access Control SWM (negative case) |
| 3.5.1.1.33 | 3.1.8.6 | CONDITIONAL MANDATORY | FHM | Sudo on Hierarchical M-plane architecture (positive case) |
| 3.5.1.1.34 | 3.1.8.7 | CONDITIONAL MANDATORY | FHM | Access Control SMO (negative case) |
| 3.5.1.1.35 | 3.1.8.8 | CONDITIONAL MANDATORY | FHM | Access Control Hybrid-ODU (negative case) |

##### Transport and Handshake in IPv4/SSH Environment (positive case)

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY for a FHM that declares support for IPv4 and SSH. Refer to clause 3.1.1.1 for the test procedure.

##### Transport and Handshake in IPv4/SSH Environment (negative case)

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY for a FHM that declares support for IPv4 and SSH. Refer to clause 3.1.1.2 for the test procedure.

##### Transport and Handshake in IPv6/SSH Environment (positive case)

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY for a FHM that declares support for IPv6 and SSH. Refer to clause 3.1.1.3 for the test procedure.

##### Transport and Handshake in IPv6/SSH Environment (negative case)

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY for a FHM that declares support for IPv6 and SSH. Refer to clause 3.1.1.4 for the test procedure.

##### Transport and Handshake in IPv4/TLS Environment (positive case)

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY for a FHM that declares support for IPv4 and TLS. Refer to clause 3.1.1.5 for the test procedure.

##### Transport and Handshake in IPv4/TLS Environment (negative case)

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY for a FHM that declares support for IPv4 and TLS. Refer to clause 3.1.1.6 for the test procedure.

##### Transport and Handshake in IPv6/TLS Environment (positive case)

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY for a FHM that declares support for IPv6 and TLS. Refer to clause 3.1.1.7 for the test procedure.

##### Transport and Handshake in IPv6/TLS Environment (negative case)

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY for a FHM that declares support for IPv6 and TLS. Refer to clause 3.1.1.8 for the test procedure.

##### Retrieval of FHM Information (positive case)

A. Test-Description and Applicability

This scenario is MANDATORY for FHM tests.

This scenario corresponds to the following clause in [3]:

• 17.6.3 Start-up and Installation

B. Test-Entrance Criteria

The minimum functions of the TEM described in clause 2.3 that support validation of the M-Plane are operational, configured and connected to the FHM.

C. Test-Methodology

a. Initial Condition

The test procedure described in clause 3.1.1.1 (IPv4/SSH) or 3.1.1.3 (IPv6/SSH) or 3.1.1.5 (IPv4/TLS) or 3.1.1.7 (IPv6/TLS) is successfully completed

b. Procedure

1. The TEM NETCONF Client triggers <rpc><get> on ietf-yang-library towards FHM.

<get xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0">

<filter xmlns:yanglib="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-yang-library type="xpath"             select="/yanglib:*//."/>

</get>

2. The FHM NETCONF Server responds with <rpc-reply><data> where <data> contains all the yang modules supported by FHM NETCONF server

<rpc-reply xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="3">

<data xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0">

<yang-library xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-yang-library">

<module-set>

<name>Lib</name>

<module>

<name>o-ran-shared-cell</name>

<revision>2021-12-01</revision>

<namespace>urn:o-ran:shared-cell:1.0</namespace>

<feature>FHM</feature>

</module>

</module-set>

</yang-library>

</data>

</rpc-reply>

3. The TEM NETCONF Client triggers <rpc><get> on shared-cell-module towards the FHM NETCONF

<get xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0">

<filter xmlns:o-ran-sc="urn:o-ran:shared-cell:1.0" type="xpath" select="/yanglib:*//."/>

</get>

4. The FHM NETCONF Server responds with <rpc-reply><data> where <data> contains all elements that the FHM NETCONF Server is able to expose.

<rpc-reply xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="3">

<data xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0">

<shared-cell>

<shared-cell-module-cap>

<t-copy>300</t-copy>

<t-combine>300</t-combine>

<ta3-prime-max-upper-range>300</ta3-prime-max-upper-range>

<max-number-node-copy-and-combine></max-number-node-copy-and-combine>

<max-number-eaxcid-copy>11</max-number-eaxcid-copy>

<max-number-eaxcid-combine>11</max-number-eaxcid-combine>

</shared-cell-module-cap>

</shared-cell>

</data>

</rpc-reply>

D. Test Requirement (expected result)

- The fetched yang library contains o-ran-shared-cell module indicating that O-RU supports copy and combine function and FHM feature is defined
- The shared-cell-module-cap container is present in the response from O-RU NETCONF server containing delay management parameters t-copy, t-combine, ta3-prime-max-upper-range, max-number-node-copy-and-combine, max-number-eaxcid-copy, max-number-eaxcid-combine, compression-method-supported.

##### Retrieval of FHM Information (negative case)

A. Test-Description and Applicability

This scenario is MANDATORY for FHM tests. Since FHM doesn't have the capability for transmission and reception of radio signals, Some YANG models are not applicable for FHM, including:

1. o-ran-ald module

2. o-ran-ald-port module

3. o-ran-laa-operations module

4. o-ran-laa module

5. o-ran-module-cap module

6. o-ran-beamforming module

7. o-ran-uplane-conf module

The testcases corresponding to these 7 YANG models can be skipped as it is not applicable to FHM. The <get-rpc> to the mentioned module will return rpc-error. One example for module-cap is discussed in this testcase.

This scenario corresponds to the following clause in [3]:

• 17.6.3 Start-up and Installation

B. Test-Entrance Criteria

The minimum functions of the TEM described in clause 2.3 that support validation of the M-Plane are operational, configured and connected to the FHM.

C. Test-Methodology

a. Initial Condition

The test procedure described in clause 3.1.1.1 (IPv4/SSH) or 3.1.1.3 (IPv6/SSH) or 3.1.1.5 (IPv4/TLS) or 3.1.1.7 (IPv6/TLS) is successfully completed

b. Procedure

1. The TEM NETCONF Client triggers <rpc><get> on urn:o-ran:module-cap towards FHM.

<get xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0">

<filter xmlns:o-ran-module-cap="urn:o-ran:module-cap:1.0"

type="xpath"

select="/o-ran-module-cap:*//."/>

<with-defaults xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-netconf-with-defaults">report-all</with-defaults>

</get>

2. The FHM NETCONF Server throws error <rpc-error><data> where <data> contains all the yang modules supported by FHM NETCONF server

<rpc-reply xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message id="11">

<rpc-error>

<error-type>Module-not-supported</error-type>

<error-tag>Module not supported</error-tag>

<error-severity>error</error-severity>

</rpc-error>

</rpc-reply>

D. Test Requirement (expected result)

- Test Step 2 is performed successfully.

##### U-Plane Configuration and Shared Cell Configuration

A. Test-Description and Applicability

This scenario is MANDATORY for FHM tests.

This scenario corresponds to the following clause in [3]:

• 17.6.4 U-Plane Configuration for FHM

B. Test-Entrance Criteria

The minimum functions of the TEM described in clause 2.3 that support validation of the M-Plane are operational, configured and connected to the FHM.

C. Test-Methodology

a. Initial Conditions

The test procedure described in clause 3.1.1.1 (IPv4/SSH) or 3.1.1.3 (IPv6/SSH) or 3.1.1.5 (IPv4/TLS) or 3.1.1.7 (IPv6/TLS) is successfully completed.

b. Procedure

1. The TEM NETCONF Client configures the FHM NETCONF Server with a vlan-id for the C-Plane and U-Plane interfaces on the north interface and south interface (with same vlan id value).

2. The TEM NETCONF Client configures a transport-flow in the FHM north node processing element: a combination of VLAN identity, North node MAC address and FHM MAC address.

<rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="16">

<edit-config xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0">

<target>

<running/>

</target>

<default-operation>merge</default-operation>

<config>

<processing-elements xmlns="urn:o-ran:processing-element:1.0">

<transport-session-type>SHARED-CELL-ETH-INTERFACE</transport-session-type>

<ru-elements>

<name>XXX_north_node_FHM_processing-element01</name>

<transport-flow>

<interface-name>XXX_if_xyz_vlan1</interface-name>

<north-eth-flow>

<ru-mac-address>A0:CE:C8:17:7A:41</ru-mac-address>

<vlan-id>1</vlan-id>

<north-node-mac-address>0a:00:27:00:00:09</o-du-mac-address>

</north-eth-flow>

</transport-flow>

</ru-elements>

</processing-elements>

</config>

</edit-config>

</rpc>

3. The TEM NETCONF Client configures a transport-flow in the FHM south node processing element: a combination of VLAN identity, South MAC address and FHM MAC address. This step shall be repeated for as any south node O-RUs in the setup with same M-Plane configuration.

<rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="16">

<edit-config xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0">

<target>

<running/>

</target>

<default-operation>merge</default-operation>

<config>

<processing-elements xmlns="urn:o-ran:processing-element:1.0">

<transport-session-type>SHARED-CELL-ETH-INTERFACE</transport-session-type>

<ru-elements>

<name>XXX_south_node_FHM_processing-element01</name>

<transport-flow>

<interface-name>XXX_if_xyz_vlan1</interface-name>

<south-eth-flow>

<ru-mac-address>A0:CE:C8:17:7A:41</ru-mac-address>

<vlan-id>1</vlan-id>

<south-node-mac-address>0a:00:27:00:01:10</o-du-mac-address>

</south-eth-flow>

</transport-flow>

</ru-elements>

</processing-elements>

</config>

</edit-config>

</rpc>

4. The TEM NETCONF Client configures the FHM with the unique eaxc-id value in the shared-cell-copy and shared-cell-combine module of FHM.

<rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="16">

<edit-config xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0">

<target>

<running/>

</target>

<default-operation>merge</default-operation>

<config>

<shared-cell xmlns="urn:o-ran:shared-cell:1.0">

<shared-cell-config>

<shared-cell-copy-entities>

<name>XXX_shared_copy_set01</name>

<north-node-processing-element>XXX_north_node_FHM_processing-element01           </north-node-processing-element>

<south-node-processing-element>XXX_south_node_FHM_processing-element01</south-node-processing-element>

<shared-cell-copy-uplane-config>

<tx-eaxc-id>

<eaxc-id>1</eaxc-id>

</tx-eaxc-id>

<downlink-radio-frame-offset>0 </downlink-radio-frame-offset>

<downlink-sfn-offset>0</downlink-sfn-offset>

<rx-eaxc-id>

<eaxc-id>1</eaxc-id>

</rx-eaxc-id>

</shared-cell-copy-uplane-config>

</shared-cell-copy-entities>

<shared-cell-combine-entities>

<name>XXX_shared_combine_set01</name>

<north-node-processing-element>XXX_north_node_FHM_processing-element0</north-node-processing-element>

<south-node-processing-element>XXX_south_node_FHM_processing-element01</south-node-processing-element>

<shared-cell-combine-uplane-config>

<rx-eaxc-id>

<eaxc-id>2</eaxc-id>

</rx-eaxc-id>

<compression-method>

<compression-type> STATIC </compression-type>

<bitwidth> 14 </bitwidth>

<exponent> 4 </exponent>

</compression-method>

<downlink-radio-frame-offset>0 </downlink-radio-frame-offset>

<downlink-sfn-offset>0</downlink-sfn-offset>

<n-ta-offset>0</<n-ta-offset>>

</shared-cell-combine-uplane-config>

</shared-cell-combine-entities>

</shared-cell-config>

</config>

</edit-config>

</rpc>

5. Enable CU plane monitoring

D. Test Requirement (expected result)

- The FHM NETCONF Server confirms the operations for the above transactions
- Verify that carrier is activated in southern node TEM NETCONF server and C/U plane data flows have commenced.

##### M-Plane Passthrough U-Plane Configuration for South Node RU (positive case)

A. Test-Description and Applicability

This scenario is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY for FHM tests with M-Plane Passthrough.

B. Test-Entrance Criteria

The minimum functions of the TEM described in clause 2.3 that support validation of the M-Plane are operational, configured and connected to the South Node

C. Test-Methodology

a. Initial Conditions

The test procedure described in clause 3.1.1.1 (IPv4/SSH) or 3.1.1.3 (IPv6/SSH) or 3.1.1.5 (IPv4/TLS) or 3.1.1.7 (IPv6/TLS) is successfully completed

b. Procedure

1. The TEM Netconf-Server (which act as O-RU) will initiate the test procedure described in clause 3.1.1.1 (IPv4/SSH) or 3.1.1.3 (IPv6/SSH) or 3.1.1.5 (IPv4/TLS) or 3.1.1.7 (IPv6/TLS) and completed successfully.

2. The TEM Netconf Client initiates the test procedure described in clause 3.1.10.1 towards the TEM Netconf Server and completed successfully.

D. Test Requirement (expected result)

Test Scenario step 2 is performed successfully.

##### M-Plane Passthrough U-Plane Configuration for South Node RU (negative case)

A. Test-Description and Applicability

This scenario is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY for FHM tests with M-Plane Passthrough.

B. Test-Entrance Criteria

The minimum functions of the TEM described in clause 2.3 that support validation of the M-Plane are operational, configured and connected to the South Node

C. Test-Methodology

a. Initial Conditions

The test procedure described in clause 3.1.1.1 (IPv4/SSH) or 3.1.1.3 (IPv6/SSH) or 3.1.1.5 (IPv4/TLS) or 3.1.1.7 (IPv6/TLS) is successfully completed

b. Procedure

1. The TEM Netconf-Server (which act as ORU) will initiate the test procedure described in clause 3.1.1.1 (IPv4/SSH) or 3.1.1.3 (IPv6/SSH) or 3.1.1.5 (IPv4/TLS) or 3.1.1.7 (IPv6/TLS) and completed successfully.

2. The TEM Netconf Client initiates the test procedure described in clause 3.1.10.2 towards the TEM Netconf Server and completed successfully.

D. Test Requirement (expected result)

Test Scenario step 2 is performed successfully.

##### Performance Management

A. Test-Description and Applicability

This scenario is MANDATORY for FHM tests.

This clause defines specific part of Performance Measurement of shared cell

This scenario corresponds to the following clause in [3]:

• 17.4 Performance Management

B. Test-Entrance Criteria

The minimum functions of the TEM described in clause 2.3 that support validation of the M-Plane are operational, configured and connected to the FHM

C. Test-Methodology

a. Initial Conditions

The test procedure described in clause 3.1.1.1 (IPv4/SSH) or 3.1.1.3 (IPv6/SSH) or 3.1.1.5 (IPv4/TLS) or 3.1.1.7 (IPv6/TLS) is successfully completed

b. Procedure

1. The TEM NETCONF Client establishes a connection with the FHM NETCONF Server

2. The TEM NETCONF Client sends edit config for transceiver-measurement-object and epe-stats-object.

<rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="4">

<edit-config xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0">

<target>

<running/>

</target>

<default-operation>merge</default-operation>

<config>

<performance-measurement-objectsxmlns="urn:o-ran:performance-management:1.0"><enable-SFTP-upload>False</enable-SFTP-upload>

<enable-random-file-upload>TRUE</enable-random-file-upload>

<remote-SFTP-uploads>

<remote-SFTP-upload-path>sftp://oranuser@192.168.56.1:22/log</remote-SFTP-upload-path>

<password>

<password>oranuser</password>

</password>

</remote-SFTP-uploads>

<transceiver-measurement-interval>300</transceiver-measurement-interval>

<epe-measurement-interval>300</epe-measurement-interval>

<notification-interval>1200</notification-interval>

<transceiver-measurement-objects>

<measurement-object>TX_BIAS_COUNT</measurement-object>

<active>true</active>

<report-info>MAXIMUM</report-info>

<report-info>MINIMUM</report-info>

<report-info>FIRST</report-info>

<report-info>LATEST</report-info>

<object-unit>PORT_NUMBER</object-unit>

<function>LOG_10</function>

<bin-count>2</bin-count>

</transceiver-measurement-objects>

<epe-measurement-objects>

<measurement-object>RX_ON_TIME</measurement-object>

<active>true</active>

<object-unit>RU</object-unit>

<report-info>COUNT</report-info>

</epe-measurement-objects>

</performance-measurement-objects>

</config>

</edit-config>

</rpc>

3. The FHM sends notification message

<notification xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:notification:1.0">

<eventTime>YYYY-MM-DDTHH:mm:ss</eventTime>

<measurement-result-stats xmlns="urn:o-ran:performance-management:1.0">

<transceiver-stats>

<measurement-object>TEMPERATURE</measurement-object>

<start-time>YYYY-MM-DDTHH:mm:ss</start-time>

<end-time>YYYY-MM-DDTHH:mm:ss</end-time>

<transceiver-measurement-result>

<object-unit-id>PORT1</object-unit-id>

<min>

<value>1</value>

<time>YYYY-MM-DDTHH:mm:ss</time>

</min>

<max>

<value>3</value>

<time>YYYY-MM-DDTHH:mm:ss</time>

</max>

</transceiver-measurement-result>

</transceiver-stats>

<epe-statistics>

<measurement-object>TEMPERATURE</measurement-object>

<start-time>YYYY-MM-DDTHH:mm:ss</start-time>

<end-time>YYYY-MM-DDTHH:mm:ss</end-time>

<epe-measurement-result>

<object-unit-id>O-RAN-HARDWARE</object-unit-id>

<min>24</min>

<max>42</max>

</epe-measurement-result>

</epe-statistics>

<epe-statistics>

</measurement-result-stats>

</notification>

D. Test Requirement (expected result)

The rpc is sent successfully with required parameters and validated via TEM.

##### Delay Management

A. Test-Description and Applicability

This scenario is MANDATORY for FHM tests.

This test verifies the delay operation between O-DU and furthest (southern-most) O-RU.

This scenario corresponds to the following clause in [3]:

• 17.5 Delay Management

B. Test-Entrance Criteria

The minimum functions of the TEM described in clause 2.3 that support validation of the M-Plane are operational, configured and connected to the FHM

C. Test-Methodology

a. Initial Conditions

The test procedure described in clause 3.1.1.1 (IPv4/SSH) or 3.1.1.3 (IPv6/SSH) or 3.1.1.5 (IPv4/TLS) or 3.1.1.7 (IPv6/TLS) is successfully completed

b. Procedure

1. The TEM NETCONF Client establishes a connection with the FHM NETCONF Server

2. The TEM NETCONF Client retrieve delay profile using o-ran-delay-management.yang from TEM NETCONF Server.

3. The TEM NETCONF Client send a <edit-config> with ta3-prime-max value of shared-cell-combine container.

<edit-config xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0">

<target>

<running/>

</target>

<default-operation>merge</default-operation>

<config>

<shared-cell xmlns="urn:o-ran:shared-cell:1.0">

<shared-cell-combine-entities>

<name>XXX_shared_combine_set01</name>

<ta3-prime-max>300</ta3-prime-max>

</shared-cell-combine-entities>

</config>

</edit-config>

4. The FHM will respond with the OK reply to the TEM NETCONF Client.

<rpc-reply xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="1">

<ok/>

</rpc-reply>

D. Test Requirement (expected result)

Test Scenario step 4 is performed successfully.

##### Software Update (positive case)

This test is MANDATORY for a FHM.  Refer to clause 3.1.6.1 for the test procedure.

##### Software Update (negative case)

This test is MANDATORY for a FHM.  Refer to clause 3.1.6.2 for the test procedure.

##### Software Activation without Reset

This test is MANDATORY for a FHM.  Refer to clause 3.1.7.1 for the test procedure.

##### Supplemental Reset after Software Activation

This test is MANDATORY for a FHM.  Refer to clause 3.1.7.2 for the test procedure.

##### File Management Operation: Upload

A. Test-Description and Applicability

This scenario is MANDATORY for FHM tests.

This test verifies the file management operation of the FHM.

This scenario corresponds to the following clause in [3]:

• 12.3 File Management Operation: Upload

B. Test-Entrance Criteria

The functions of the TEM described in clause 2.3 that support validation of the M-Plane are operational, configured and connected to the FHM

C. Test-Methodology

a. Initial Conditions

The test procedure described in clause 3.1.1.1 (IPv4/SSH) or 3.1.1.3 (IPv6/SSH) or 3.1.1.5 (IPv4/TLS) or 3.1.1.7 (IPv6/TLS) is successfully completed.

b. Procedure

1. The TEM NETCONF Client establishes a connection with the FHM NETCONF Server

2. The TEM NETCONF Client uploads a file using the o-ran-file-management YANG model from the TEM NETCONF Server.

3. The TEM NETCONF Client send <rpc><file-upload> towards NETCONF Server

<rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="3">

<file-upload xmlns="urn:o-ran:file-management:1.0">

<local-logical-file-path>latest.log</local-logical-file-path>

<remote-file-path>sftp://guest@192.168.2.2:22/</remote-file-path>

<password>

<password>guest</password>

</password>

</file-upload>

</rpc>

4. The FHM will respond with the status reply to the TEM NETCONF Client.

<rpc-reply xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="3">

<status xmlns="urn:o-ran:file-management:1.0">SUCCESS</status>

</rpc-reply>

5. The NETCONF Server sends notification.

<notification xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:notification:1.0">

<eventTime>YYYY-MM-DDTHH:mm:ss</eventTime>

<file-upload-notification xmlns="urn:o-ran:file-management:1.0">

<local-logical-file-path>latest.log</local-logical-file-path>

<remote-file-path>sftp://guest@192.168.2.2:22/</remote-file-path>

<status>SUCCESS</status>

</file-upload-notification>

</notification>

D. Test Requirement (expected result)

Test Scenario step 4 is performed successfully.

##### File Management Operation: Retrieve the list

A. Test-Description and Applicability

This scenario is MANDATORY for FHM tests.

This test verifies the file management operation of the FHM.

This scenario corresponds to the following clause in [3]:

• 12.4 File Management Operation: Retrieve the list

B. Test-Entrance Criteria

The minimum functions of the TEM described in clause 2.3 that support validation of the M-Plane are operational, configured and connected to the FHM

C. Test-Methodology

a. Initial Conditions

The test procedure described in clause 3.1.1.1 (IPv4/SSH) or 3.1.1.3 (IPv6/SSH) or 3.1.1.5 (IPv4/TLS) or 3.1.1.7 (IPv6/TLS) is successfully completed.

b. Procedure

1. The TEM NETCONF Client establishes a connection with the FHM NETCONF Server

2. The TEM NETCONF Client retrieves the file from TEM NETCONF Server. One or multiple 6 files’ information can be retrieved by one retrieve file list operation (use of wildcard is allowed).

<rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="5">

<retrieve-file-list xmlns="urn:o-ran:file-management:1.0">

<logical-path>.</logical-path>

<file-name-filter>*</file-name-filter>

</retrieve-file-list>

</rpc>

3. The FHM will respond with the status reply to the TEM NETCONF Client whether the TEM NETCONF Server accepts the retrieve-file-list request or rejects due to some reason is replied. If rejected, 2 the human readable reject reason is also replied

<rpc-reply xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="3">

<status xmlns="urn:o-ran:file-management:1.0">SUCCESS</status>

</rpc-reply>

D. Test Requirement (expected result)

Test Scenario step 4 is performed successfully.

##### File Management Operation: Download

A. Test-Description and Applicability

This scenario is MANDATORY for FHM tests.

This test verifies the file management operation of the FHM.

This scenario corresponds to the following clause in [3]:

• 12.5 File Management Operation: Download

B. Test-Entrance Criteria

The minimum functions of the TEM described in clause 2.3 that support validation of the M-Plane are operational, configured and connected to the FHM

C. Test-Methodology

a. Initial Conditions

The test procedure described in clause 3.1.1.1 (IPv4/SSH) or 3.1.1.3 (IPv6/SSH) or 3.1.1.5 (IPv4/TLS) or 3.1.1.7 (IPv6/TLS) is successfully completed

b. Procedure

1. The TEM NETCONF Client establishes a connection with the FHM NETCONF Server

2. The TEM NETCONF Client sends file download request to TEM NETCONF Server.

<rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="4">

<file-download xmlns="urn:o-ran:file-management:1.0">

<local-logical-file-path>.</local-logical-file-path>

<remote-file-path>sftp://guest@192.168.2.2:22/mplane_user_Guide.docx</remote-file-path>

<password> <password>guest</password></password>

</file-download>

</rpc>

3. The FHM will respond with the status reply to the TEM NETCONF Client

<rpc-reply xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="3">

<status xmlns="urn:o-ran:file-management:1.0">SUCCESS</status>

</rpc-reply>

4. The NETCONF Server sends notification.

<notification xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:notification:1.0">

<eventTime>YYYY-MM-DDTHH:mm:ss</eventTime>

<file-download-notification xmlns="urn:o-ran:file-management:1.0">

<local-logical-file-path>latest.log</local-logical-file-path>

<remote-file-path>sftp://guest@192.168.2.2:22/</remote-file-path>

<status>SUCCESS</status>

</file-upload-notification>

</notification>

D. Test Requirement (expected result)

Test Scenario step 4 is performed successfully.

##### Subscription to Notifications

This test is MANDATORY for a FHM.  Refer to clause 3.1.2 for the test procedure.

##### O-RU Alarm Notification Generation

This test is MANDATORY for a FHM.  Refer to clause 3.1.5.1 for the test procedure.

##### Retrieval of Active Alarm List

This test is MANDATORY for a FHM.  Refer to clause 3.1.5.1 for the test procedure

##### M-Plane Connection Supervision (positive case)

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY for a FHM.  Refer to clause 3.1.3.1 for the test procedure.

##### M-Plane Connection Supervision (negative case)

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY for a FHM.  Refer to clause 3.1.3.2 for the test procedure.

##### Sudo on Hybrid M-plane Architecture (positive case)

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY for a FHM.  Refer to clause 3.1.8.1 for the test procedure.

##### Access Control Sudo (negative case)

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY for a FHM.  Refer to clause 3.1.8.2 for the test procedure.

##### Access Control NMS (negative case)

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY for a FHM.  Refer to clause 3.1.8.3 for the test procedure.

##### Access Control FM-PM (negative case)

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY for a FHM.  Refer to clause 3.1.8.4 for the test procedure.

##### Access Control SWM (negative case)

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY for a FHM.  Refer to clause 3.1.8.5 for the test procedure.

##### Sudo on Hierarchical M-plane architecture (positive case)

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY for a FHM.  Refer to clause 3.1.8.6 for the test procedure.

##### Access Control SMO (negative case)

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY for a FHM.  Refer to clause 3.1.8.7 for the test procedure.

##### Access Control Hybrid-ODU (negative case)

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY for a FHM.  Refer to clause 3.1.8.8 for the test procedure.

#### FHM UC-Plane Tests

##### UC-Plane FHM Scenario Class Base 3GPP DL Same Cell Scenario

Test Description and Applicability

The test is MANDATORY for FHM.

The purpose of the test is to ensure the FHM can meet the requirement of the DL copy function to retrieve eCPRI messages coming from the north-node as payload of Ethernet frames, copy them (the entire eCPRI message including eCPRI header and eCPRI payload) without any modifications as payload into Ethernet frames and send them towards all of the south-nodes that are configured.

The FHM is connected to TEM emulating at least two O-RUs as south-nodes that operate as same cell. Each south-node emulated O-RUs must have at least one UE attached to it.

Using the standard TDD or FDD test frame described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 or 3.2.1.1.1 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4 for FR2, the O-DU emulator (i.e. north bound interface of the FHM described in clause 2.3) generates downlink C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the FHM to transmit towards the south-nodes. This configuration corresponds to stock data section A in all symbols that do not contain PDCCH channels.  The remainder of this test description assumes the FR1 TDD FHM.  While the FHM DUT is generally agnostic to the Frequency Range and other similar radio frame configuration, the FHM tests can be conducted using any of the above test frames.

Test Entrance Criteria

South-node O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 of this document. The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described by NR-FR1-TM1.1 in downlink direction, appropriate SSB signal shall also be transmitted for UEs in emulated O-RUs to synchronize and decode PDSCH properly. If the O-RU does not support this bandwidth, another 3GPP FRC can be selected. In the test frame, all PDSCH data is set to all zeros. It will be for 5G New Radio only.

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

Configure the south-node emulated O-RUs which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. Configure UEs in each emulated O-RUs with appropriate parameters that are needed to allow them to synch and demodulate the downlink signal.

The O-DU emulator has determined the topology (adjacency relationships) of O-RUs for the shared cell through topology discovery procedure. Then configure the FHM with appropriate shared-cell-copy-uplane-config parameters using M-Plane commands.

Procedure

Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the signal described above in clause 3.2.1.1.3in the CUSM emulator Use the CUSM emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal. Every symbol other than the ones used in the test shall either be allocated with user data or left unallocated (empty). If allocated with user data, they be described by either a single or multiple sections (DL-SCH that are used for the test, DMRS and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages for downlink slots only. Play those messages to the FHM respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.3. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required for emulated UE to synch to the SSB and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.

Test Requirement (expected result)

The signal measured from the UEs in each south-node emulated O-RU shall satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM).

The test frame received in downlink direction by the UEs shall be the same as the signal described above. If it contains all the same PRB assignments and all zero data, the test passes.

##### UC-Plane FHM Scenario Class Base 3GPP UL

Test Description and Applicability

The test is MANDATORY for FHM.

The purpose of the test is to ensure the FHM can meet the requirement for the UL combine function to combine IQ data corresponding to the same radio resource element from each south-node O-RU to eCPRI messages for UL U-Plane towards north-node O-DU.

The FHM will be connected to TEM emulating at least two O-RUs as south-nodes that operate as same cell. Each south-node emulated O-RUs must have at least two UEs attached to it.

Using the standard TDD or FDD test frame described in clause 3.2.1.1.3, the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate uplink C-Plane that require the FHM to transmit towards the south-nodes. Appropriate SSB signal shall also be transmitted in downlink U plane for UEs supported by emulated O-RUs to synchronize and transmit uplink signals properly.

For each O-RU, it needs to transmit 2 UL signals in same slot, one PUSCH signal from one UE and one PUCCH signal from the other UE. The definition of the signal can be found from Table 3.5.1.2-1 and Table 3.5.1.2-2 below, the value from both tables can be referred to ETSI TS 138.141 clause 8, Table 8.2.1.4.2-2 and Table 8.3.2.1.4.2-2 with slight changes in accommodation for the purpose of this test. The reason for using PUSCH and PUCCH signals in this test is to exercise UL combine function with different scenarios, i.e. PUSCH from each O-RU does not overlap while PUCCH overlaps.

| PUSCH Parameters | Value for O-RU 1 | Value for O-RU 2 |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Transform precoding | Disabled |  |  |
| C-RNTI | 0 | 1 |  |
| Default TDD UL-DL pattern (Note 1) | 30 kHz SCS: 3D1S1U, S=10D:2G:2U 30 kHz SCS: 7D1S2U, S=6D:4G:4U |  |  |
| HARQ | Maximum number of HARQ transmissions | 4 |  |
|  | RV sequence | 0, 2, 3, 1 |  |
| DM-RS | DM-RS configuration type | 1 |  |
|  | DM-RS duration | single-symbol DM-RS |  |
|  | Additional DM-RS position | pos1 |  |
|  | Number of DM-RS CDM group(s) without data | 2 |  |
|  | Ratio of PUSCH EPRE to DM-RS EPRE | -3 dB |  |
|  | DM-RS port(s) | {0}, {0, 1} |  |
|  | DM-RS sequence generation | NID0=0, nSCID =0 |  |
| Time domain resource assignment | PUSCH mapping type | A, B |  |
|  | Start symbol | 0 |  |
|  | Allocation length | 14 |  |
| Frequency domain resource assignment | RB assignment | 1 - 51 | 52 - 102 |
|  | Frequency hopping | Disabled |  |
| TPMI index for 2Tx two layer spatial multiplexing transmission | 0 |  |  |
| Code block group based PUSCH transmission | Disabled |  |  |
| NOTE 1:	The same requirements are applicable to FDD and TDD with different UL-DL patterns. NOTE 2:   If other combinations of numerology and bandwidth are required to be tested, appropriate PUSCH PRB length and location needs to be selected with the following principles:  a) PUSCH from O-RU1 and O-RU2 has the same PRB length, which is between 1/5 and 1/4 of the total bandwidth. b) PUSCH from O-RU1 starts from PRB#1, PUSCH from O-RU1 and O-RU2 needs to be adjacent. |  |  |  |

Table 3.5.1.2-1 PUSCH Parameters for HFM UL Test

| PUCCH Parameters | Value for O-RU1 | Value for O-RU2 |
| --- | --- | --- |
| C-RNTI | 2 | 3 |
| PUCCH format | 1 |  |
| Number of information bits | 2 |  |
| Number of PRBs | 1 |  |
| Number of symbols | 14 |  |
| First PRB prior to frequency hopping | 0 |  |
| Intra-slot frequency hopping | Enabled |  |
| First PRB after frequency hopping | The largest PRB index - (nrofPRBs -1) |  |
| Group and sequence hopping | Neither |  |
| Hopping ID | 0 |  |
| Initial cyclic shift | 0 |  |
| First symbol | 0 |  |
| Index of orthogonal cover code (timeDomainOCC) | 0 | 1 |

Table 3.5.1.2-2 PUCCH Parameters for HFM UL Test

In this case, PUSCH from each O-RU are using different PRB resource in same slot while PUCCH from each O-RU are using same PRB resource but with different OCC.

Test Entrance Criteria

The south-node O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 of this document. The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz. If the O-RU does not support this bandwidth another 3GPP FRC can be selected. In the test frame, all PUSCH data is set to all zeros. It will be for 5G New Radio only.

Test Methodology

Initial Conditions

Configure the south-node emulated O-RUs which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. Configure UEs in each emulated O-RUs with appropriate parameters that needed to allow them to synch and transmit uplink signal.

The O-DU emulator has determined the topology (adjacency relationships) of O-RUs for the shared cell through topology discovery procedure. Then configure the FHM with appropriate shared-cell-combine-uplane-config parameters using M-Plane commands.

Procedure

Build appropriate test signal for each south-node O-RU as described above in the signal source of the TER.

Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages for downlink SSB and describe the uplink signal. For uplink, every symbol shall be described by either one or two sections (UL-SCH) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.

Play the C plane messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1.

Upon synchronizing to SSB, UE in each emulated O-RU shall transmit uplink signal defined above.

Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the DUT, allow it to create and send the U-plane messages to the O-DU and for the O-DU to demodulate, decode and extract the payload.

Test Requirement (expected result)

The test frame received by the TEM/O-DU shall be the same as the signal described above from two O-RUs.

Both PUSCH and PUCCH from 2 south-node O-RUs can be decoded correctly from TEM/O-DU U-Plane extracted IQ with expected payload.


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG4.TS.CONF.0-R004-v14.02.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG4.TS.CONF.0-R004-v14.02 Technical Specification Conformance Test Specification"
---

### 3.3.6 Functional test of O-DU Synchronized from Embedded or Local non-PTP PRTC (LLS- 3.3.7 Performance test of O-DU Synchronized from either Local or Remote PRTC using ITU-T G.8275.1

### 3.3.8 Performance test of O-DU Synchronized from Embedded GNSS receiver (LLS-C1/C2/C3/C4) ... 401
3.3.9 Performance test of O-RU using ITU-T G.8275.1 Profile (LLS-C1/C2/C3), additional tests for

## 1.2 Scope

### 1.2.1 General
The present document defines tests that validate the conformance to the protocols defined in [2] for the Lower Layer Split Option 7.2x interface between the O-RU and the O-DU. A guiding principle for these conformance tests is to use only standard interfaces that are defined by the specification [2] or relevant 3GPP specifications. The construction of these tests avoids the requirement for a device to include any special interfaces used solely for the purpose of these tests. While these tests are not written to evaluate the performance of an O-DU or O-RU device, some tests require obtaining measurements and evaluating the success or failure of the device to process sample data correctly based on portion of the protocol being tested at the time. In general, unless otherwise stated, the tests cover LTE (Stand-Alone), NR Non-Stand-Alone (NSA) and NR Stand- Alone (SA). In the main body of this specification (in any “chapter”) the information contained therein is normative meaning binding on any compliant system, unless explicitly described as informative (a capability described as “optional” may or may not be included in a compliant system but if it is included it must comply with the optional capability description). Information contained in an “Annex” to this specification is always informative.

### 1.2.2 U-Plane and C-Plane Scope
This version of the Conformance Test specification defines tests which validate the conformance of an O-RU and O- DU. The tests are designed to cover a large number of optional functionalities defined in [2]. Therefore, for any given O-RU implementation, a subset of these tests may not be applicable. It is the responsibility of the tester to understand the applicability of each test to the feature provided by a particular O-RU.

### 1.2.3 S-Plane
The Conformance Test specification defines tests for time synchronization of the O-RU and O-DU. The tests defined include both functional and performance tests. Functional tests validate the ability of the O-RU and O-DU to achieve the proper synchronization management state based on a variety of PTP, and optionally SyncE input conditions. Performance tests validate the conformance of the recovered clock for the O-DU or O-RU. Concerning the scope of the S-Plane, various synchronization options have been defined in the O-RAN CUS Specification [2] for distributing synchronization to the O-RU (LLS-C1, LLS-C2, LLS-C3 and LLS-C4). Depending on the specific O-RAN deployment being considered not all of them may be relevant. When testing the S-Plane, the tester shall identify which of the test cases are relevant depending on the specific deployment scenarios addressed. As a general guideline the following applies: 1) Direct connection between O-DU and O-RU: 1) LLS-C1 is generally the main sync option to be validated. 2) LLS-C4 may be considered as alternative or as a complement to C1 2) Synchronization network between O-DU and O-RU 3) LLS-C2 for cases where the synchronization is delivered to the O-RU via the O-DU and over the bridged network. In this topology the PRTC synchronizing the O-DU may be local or remote. 4) LLS-C3 for cases when the synchronization is distributed to the O-RU without involving the O-DU. In this case one or more PRTC may be remote and may also be local. 5) LLS-C4 may be considered as alternative or as a complement to LLS-C2/C3 For LLS-C1 and LLS-C2, a local PRTC is either embedded in or co-located with the O-DU. A remote PRTC is located anywhere in the network (backhaul or fronthaul).

### 1.2.4 Test Requirement Status
The following tables list each test in this conformance specification and status of the test as MANDATORY or CONDITIONAL MANDATORY or OPTIONAL. Note that tests that are MANDATORY are for those functions of the DUT that by specification are required to be supported. describes if an M-Plane test is mandatory conditional mandatory or optional to the O-DU. If a test is MANDATORY, then it shall be included in a conformance test of the DUT. If a test is CONTIONAL MANDATORY, then it shall be included in a conformance test of DUT if the DUT met the testing condition (e.g., the DUT claims to support the functionality). If a test is OPTIONAL, it is not required to be included in a conformance test of the DUT but it might be included if desired. Test Number O-RU Test Requirement Test Description M-Plane for O-RU CONDITIONAL Transport and Handshake in IPv4/SSH Environment (positive case) 3.1.1.1 MANDATORY CONDITIONAL Transport and Handshake in IPv4/SSH Environment (negative case) 3.1.1.2 MANDATORY CONDITIONAL Transport and Handshake in IPv6/SSH Environment (positive case) 3.1.1.3 MANDATORY CONDITIONAL Transport and Handshake in IPv6/SSH Environment (negative case) 3.1.1.4 MANDATORY CONDITIONAL Transport and Handshake in IPv4/TLS Environment (positive case) 3.1.1.5 MANDATORY CONDITIONAL Transport and Handshake in IPv4/TLS Environment (negative case) 3.1.1.6 MANDATORY CONDITIONAL Transport and Handshake in IPv6/TLS Environment (positive case) 3.1.1.7 MANDATORY CONDITIONAL Transport and Handshake in IPv6/TLS Environment (negative case) 3.1.1.8 MANDATORY

#### 3.1.2.1 MANDATORY Subscription to NETCONF Event Stream

#### 3.1.3.1 MANDATORY M-Plane Connection Supervision (positive case)

#### 3.1.3.2 MANDATORY M-Plane Connection Supervision (negative case)

#### 3.1.4.1 MANDATORY Retrieval without Filter Applied

#### 3.1.4.2 MANDATORY Retrieval with Filter Applied
Test Number O-RU Test Requirement Test Description

#### 3.1.5.1 MANDATORY O-RU Alarm Notification Generation

#### 3.1.5.2 MANDATORY Retrieval of Active Alarm List

#### 3.1.6.1 MANDATORY O-RU Software Update (positive case)

#### 3.1.6.2 MANDATORY O-RU Software Update (negative case)

#### 3.1.7.1 MANDATORY Software Activation without Reset

#### 3.1.7.2 MANDATORY Supplemental Reset after Software Activation
CONDITIONAL Sudo on Hybrid M-plane Architecture (positive case) 3.1.8.1 MANDATORY CONDITIONAL Access Control Sudo (negative case) 3.1.8.2 MANDATORY CONDITIONAL Access Control NMS (negative case) 3.1.8.3 MANDATORY CONDITIONAL Access Control FM-PM (negative case) 3.1.8.4 MANDATORY CONDITIONAL Access Control SWM (negative case) 3.1.8.5 MANDATORY

#### 3.1.8.6 MANDATORY Sudo on Hierarchical M-plane architecture (positive case)
CONDITIONAL Access Control SMO (negative case) 3.1.8.7 MANDATORY CONDITIONAL Access Control Hybrid-ODU (negative case) 3.1.8.8 MANDATORY CONDITIONAL Access Control Carrier (negative case) 3.1.8.9 MANDATORY CONDITIONAL Access Control change own password 3.1.8.10 MANDATORY CONDITIONAL External Input / Output Ports 3.1.9.1 MANDATORY CONDITIONAL External Output Port State Control 3.1.9.2 MANDATORY

#### 3.1.10.1 MANDATORY O-RU configurability test (positive case)

#### 3.1.10.2 MANDATORY O-RU configurability test (negative case)
CONDITIONAL ALD Communications Test 3.1.11.1 MANDATORY

#### 3.1.12.1 MANDATORY Troubleshooting Test

#### 3.1.12.2 MANDATORY Trace Test
CONDITIONAL Ethernet Connectivity Monitoring 3.1.13.1 MANDATORY CONDITIONAL

#### 3.1.13.2 UDP Echo Test
MANDATORY CONDITIONAL

#### 3.1.14.1 Carrier Deactivation and Energy Saving Configuration
MANDATORY CONDITIONAL

#### 3.1.14.2 Carrier Activation
MANDATORY CONDITIONAL Subscription and Reporting of Energy, Power and Environmental 3.1.14.3 MANDATORY (EPE) Statistics CONDITIONAL

#### 3.1.14.4 M-plane based TRX control
MANDATORY CONDITIONAL

#### 3.1.14.5 Deep-hibernate
MANDATORY Test Number O-RU Test Requirement Test Description CONDITIONAL

#### 3.1.14.6 Data layer control
MANDATORY Test Number O-DU Test Requirement Test Description M-Plane for O-DU 3.1a.2.1 MANDATORY Subscription to NETCONF Event Stream 3.1a.3.1 MANDATORY M-Plane Connection Supervision O-RU Test Test Number Test Description Requirement UC-Plane: FR1 FDD Conducted-Signal Tests UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class NR testing Generic (NRG)

##### 3.2.3.1.1 MANDATORY UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class NR testing Generic (NRG)

##### 3.2.3.1.2 MANDATORY UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended 3GPP DL – Resource allocation

##### 3.2.3.1.3 MANDATORY Plane O-RU Base Class FDD Test UL
UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using RB Parameter 3GPP DL –

##### 3.2.3.1.4 MANDATORY
Resource Allocation UC Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using RB Parameter 3GPP UL –

##### 3.2.3.1.5 MANDATORY
Resource Allocation CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using SymInc Parameter 3GPP DL 3.2.3.1.6 MANDATORY – Resource Allocation CONDITIONAL UC Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using SymInc Parameter 3GPP UL 3.2.3.1.7 MANDATORY – Resource Allocation CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using reMask Parameter 3GPP DL 3.2.3.1.8 MANDATORY – Resource Allocation CONDITIONAL UC Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using reMask Parameter 3GPP UL 3.2.3.1.9 MANDATORY – Resource Allocation CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using Non-contiguous PRB 3.2.3.1.10 MANDATORY Allocation Section Extension 6 3GPP DL – Resource Allocation CONDITIONAL UC Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using Non-contiguous PRB 3.2.3.1.11 MANDATORY Allocation Section Extension 6 3GPP UL – Resource Allocation CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Section Extension 10 – Multiple Port 3.2.3.1.12 MANDATORY Grouping DL – Resource allocation CONDITIONAL UC Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended multiple port grouping using section 3.2.3.1.13 MANDATORY extension 10 UL– Resource Allocation CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended 3GPP DL – Resource allocation – 3.2.3.1.14 MANDATORY Coupling C and U plane via Frequency and Time CONDITIONAL UC Plane O-RU Base Class FDD Test UL – Coupling C and U plane via time 3.2.3.1.15 MANDATORY and frequency CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended 3GPP DL – Resource allocation – 3.2.3.1.16 MANDATORY Section Description Priorities

##### 3.2.3.1.17 N/A (VOID)
CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using Non-contiguous PRB 3.2.3.1.18 MANDATORY Allocation Section Extension 12 3GPP DL – Resource Allocation CONDITIONAL UC Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using Non-contiguous PRB 3.2.3.1.19 MANDATORY Allocation Section Extension 12 3GPP UL – Resource Allocation CONDITIONAL UC Plane O-RU Base Class FDD Test UL – Static SRS allocation 3.2.3.1.20 MANDATORY O-RU Test Test Number Test Description Requirement CONDITIONAL UC Plane O-RU Base Class FDD Test UL – Static PRACH allocation 3.2.3.1.21 MANDATORY CONDITIONAL UC Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using section extension 13 for 3.2.3.1.22 MANDATORY frequency hopping UL – Resource Allocation UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming (BFM) CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – No Beamforming 3.2.3.2.1 MANDATORY CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – No Beamforming 3.2.3.2.2 MANDATORY CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Predefined-beam 3.2.3.2.3 MANDATORY Beamforming CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – Predefined-beam 3.2.3.2.4 MANDATORY Beamforming CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Weight-based 3.2.3.2.5 MANDATORY Dynamic Beamforming CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – Weight-based 3.2.3.2.6 MANDATORY Dynamic Beamforming CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Attribute-based 3.2.3.2.7 MANDATORY Dynamic Beamforming CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – Attribute-based 3.2.3.2.8 MANDATORY Dynamic Beamforming CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Channel- 3.2.3.2.9 MANDATORY Information-based Beamforming CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – Channel- 3.2.3.2.10 MANDATORY Information-based Beamforming CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Flexible 3.2.3.2.11 MANDATORY Predefined-beam Beamforming CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – Flexible 3.2.3.2.12 MANDATORY Predefined-beam Beamforming CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Flexible Real Time 3.2.3.2.13 MANDATORY Weights Beamforming CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – Flexible Real Time 3.2.3.2.14 MANDATORY Weights Beamforming CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Layer nulling 3.2.3.2.15 MANDATORY Beamforming CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – Layer nulling 3.2.3.2.16 MANDATORY Beamforming CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Channel- 3.2.3.2.17 MANDATORY Information-based Beamforming with mixed numerology UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – Bit masking for CONDITIONAL 3.2.3.2.18 antenna mapping in Channel-Information-based Beamforming in uplink MANDATORY direction CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – User port grouping 3.2.3.2.19 MANDATORY in Channel-Information-based Beamforming in downlink direction CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – DMRS based 3.2.3.2.20 MANDATORY Beamforming CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – DMRS based 3.2.3.2.21 MANDATORY Beamforming about Symbol reordering CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using section extension 24 for 3.2.3.2.22 MANDATORY DMRS-BF UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression (CMP) CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) Fixed-Point 3.2.3.3.2 MANDATORY (FP) CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) Block 3.2.3.3.3 MANDATORY Floating Point (BFP) CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) Block 3.2.3.3.4 MANDATORY Scaling CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) Mu-Law 3.2.3.3.5 MANDATORY (MLW) O-RU Test Test Number Test Description Requirement CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) Modulation- 3.2.3.3.6 MANDATORY Compression CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static (NS) Fixed-Point 3.2.3.3.7 MANDATORY (FPF) CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static (NS) Block Floating 3.2.3.3.8 MANDATORY Point CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static (NS) Block Scaling 3.2.3.3.9 MANDATORY (BSC) CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static (NS) Mu-Law 3.2.3.3.10 MANDATORY (MLW) CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static Format (NS) 3.2.3.3.11 MANDATORY Modulation-Compressed Format CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) Block 3.2.3.3.12 MANDATORY Floating Point + Selective RE Format CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) mod-compr 3.2.3.3.13 MANDATORY + Selective RE Format CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static Format (NS) Block 3.2.3.3.14 MANDATORY Floating Point + Selective RE Format CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static Format (NS) mod- 3.2.3.3.15 MANDATORY compr + Selective RE Format UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Delay Management (DLM)

##### 3.2.3.4.1 MANDATORY UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class DLM Test #1: Downlink – Positive testing

##### 3.2.3.4.2 MANDATORY UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class DLM Test #2: Uplink – Positive testing

##### 3.2.3.4.3 MANDATORY UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class DLM Test #3: Downlink – Negative testing

##### 3.2.3.4.4 MANDATORY UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class DLM Test #4: Uplink – Negative Testing
UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class LAA (LAA) CONDITIONAL CU-DU-LAA-CWM Test #1: LBT PDSCH Configuration and Response 3.2.3.6.1 MANDATORY UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class LTE (LTE) CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Base 3GPP DL 3.2.3.7.1 MANDATORY CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended 3GPP DL – Resource Allocation 3.2.3.7.2 MANDATORY CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended 3GPP UL – Resource Allocation 3.2.3.7.3 MANDATORY CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using reMask parameter 3GPP DL 3.2.3.7.4 MANDATORY – Resource allocation CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class With Precoding (WPR) TxD 3.2.3.7.5 MANDATORY CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class With Precoding (WPR) SM 3.2.3.7.6 MANDATORY UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Section Type 3 (ST3)

##### 3.2.3.8.1 MANDATORY UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class ST3 Test #1: NR PRACH
CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class ST3 Test #2: LTE PRACH 3.2.3.8.2 MANDATORY UC-Plane: FR1 FDD Non-conducted OTA Signal Tests UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class NR testing Generic (NRG)

##### 3.2.4.1.1 MANDATORY UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class NR testing Generic (NRG)

##### 3.2.4.1.2 MANDATORY UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended 3GPP DL – Resource allocation

##### 3.2.4.1.3 MANDATORY Plane O-RU Base Class FDD Test UL
O-RU Test Test Number Test Description Requirement UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using RB Parameter 3GPP DL –

##### 3.2.4.1.4 MANDATORY
Resource Allocation UC Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using RB Parameter 3GPP UL –

##### 3.2.4.1.5 MANDATORY
Resource Allocation CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using SymInc Parameter 3GPP DL 3.2.4.1.6 MANDATORY – Resource Allocation CONDITIONAL UC Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using SymInc Parameter 3GPP UL 3.2.4.1.7 MANDATORY – Resource Allocation CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using reMask Parameter 3GPP DL 3.2.4.1.8 MANDATORY – Resource Allocation CONDITIONAL UC Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using reMask Parameter 3GPP UL 3.2.4.1.9 MANDATORY – Resource Allocation CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using Non-contiguous PRB 3.2.4.1.10 MANDATORY Allocation Section Extension 6 3GPP DL – Resource Allocation CONDITIONAL UC Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using Non-contiguous PRB 3.2.4.1.11 MANDATORY Allocation Section Extension 6 3GPP UL – Resource Allocation CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Section Extension 10 – Multiple Port 3.2.4.1.12 MANDATORY Grouping DL – Resource allocation CONDITIONAL UC Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended multiple port grouping using section 3.2.4.1.13 MANDATORY extension 10 UL– Resource Allocation

##### 3.2.4.1.14 CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended 3GPP DL – Resource allocation –
MANDATORY Coupling C and U plane via Frequency and Time

##### 3.2.4.1.15 CONDITIONAL UC Plane O-RU Base Class FDD Test UL – Coupling C and U plane via time
MANDATORY and frequency

##### 3.2.4.1.16 CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended 3GPP DL – Resource allocation –
MANDATORY Section Description Priorities

##### 3.2.4.1.17 CONDITIONAL UC Plane O-RU Base Class FDD Test UL – Section Description Priorities
MANDATORY CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using Non-contiguous PRB 3.2.4.1.18 MANDATORY Allocation Section Extension 12 3GPP DL – Resource Allocation CONDITIONAL UC Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using Non-contiguous PRB 3.2.4.1.19 MANDATORY Allocation Section Extension 12 3GPP UL – Resource Allocation CONDITIONAL UC Plane O-RU Base Class FDD Test UL – Static SRS allocation 3.2.4.1.20 MANDATORY CONDITIONAL UC Plane O-RU Base Class FDD Test UL – Static PRACH allocation 3.2.4.1.21 MANDATORY CONDITIONAL UC Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using section extension 13 for 3.2.4.1.22 MANDATORY frequency hopping UL – Resource Allocation UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming (BFM) CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – No Beamforming 3.2.4.2.1 MANDATORY CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – No Beamforming 3.2.4.2.2 MANDATORY CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Predefined-beam 3.2.4.2.3 MANDATORY Beamforming CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – Predefined-beam 3.2.4.2.4 MANDATORY Beamforming CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Weight-based 3.2.4.2.5 MANDATORY Dynamic Beamforming CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – Weight-based 3.2.4.2.6 MANDATORY Dynamic Beamforming CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Attribute-based 3.2.4.2.7 MANDATORY Dynamic Beamforming CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – Attribute-based 3.2.4.2.8 MANDATORY Dynamic Beamforming CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Channel- 3.2.4.2.9 MANDATORY Information-based Beamforming CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – Channel- 3.2.4.2.10 MANDATORY Information-based Beamforming UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression (CMP) O-RU Test Test Number Test Description Requirement CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) Fixed-Point 3.2.4.3.2 MANDATORY (FP) CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) Block 3.2.4.3.3 MANDATORY Floating Point (BFP) CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) Block 3.2.4.3.4 MANDATORY Scaling CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) Mu-Law 3.2.4.3.5 MANDATORY (MLW) CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) Modulation- 3.2.4.3.6 MANDATORY Compression CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static (NS) Fixed-Point 3.2.4.3.7 MANDATORY (FPF) CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static (NS) Block Floating 3.2.4.3.8 MANDATORY Point CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static (NS) Block Scaling 3.2.4.3.9 MANDATORY (BSC) CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static (NS) Mu-Law 3.2.4.3.10 MANDATORY (MLW) CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static Format (NS) 3.2.4.3.11 MANDATORY Modulation-Compressed Format CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) Block 3.2.4.3.12 MANDATORY Floating Point + Selective RE Format CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) mod-compr 3.2.4.3.13 MANDATORY + Selective RE Format CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static Format (NS) Block 3.2.4.3.14 MANDATORY Floating Point + Selective RE Format CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static Format (NS) mod- 3.2.4.3.15 MANDATORY compr + Selective RE Format UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Delay Management (DLM)

##### 3.2.4.4.1 MANDATORY UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class DLM Test #1: Downlink – Positive testing

##### 3.2.4.4.2 MANDATORY UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class DLM Test #2: Uplink – Positive testing

##### 3.2.4.4.3 MANDATORY UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class DLM Test #3: Downlink – Negative testing

##### 3.2.4.4.4 MANDATORY UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class DLM Test #4: Uplink – Negative Testing
UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class LAA (LAA) CU-DU-LAA-CWM Test #1: LBT PDSCH Configuration and Response CONDITIONAL 3.2.4.6.1 MANDATORY UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class LTE (LTE) CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Base 3GPP DL 3.2.4.7.1 MANDATORY CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended 3GPP DL – Resource Allocation 3.2.4.7.2 MANDATORY CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended 3GPP UL – Resource Allocation 3.2.4.7.3 MANDATORY CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using reMask parameter 3GPP DL 3.2.4.7.4 MANDATORY – Resource allocation CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class With Precoding (WPR) TxD 3.2.4.7.5 MANDATORY CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class With Precoding (WPR) SM 3.2.4.7.6 MANDATORY UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Section Type 3 (ST3)

##### 3.2.4.8.1 MANDATORY UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class ST3 Test #1: NR PRACH
CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class ST3 Test #2: LTE PRACH 3.2.4.8.2 MANDATORY O-RU Test Test Number Test Description Requirement UC-Plane: FR1 TDD Conducted Signal Tests UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class NR testing Generic (NRG)

##### 3.2.5.1.1 MANDATORY UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Base 3GPP DL/UL
UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended 3GPP DL/UL – Resource

##### 3.2.5.1.2 MANDATORY
Allocation UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using RB parameter 3GPP DL/UL

##### 3.2.5.1.3 MANDATORY
– Resource Allocation CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using SymInc parameter 3GPP 3.2.5.1.4 MANDATORY DL/UL – Resource Allocation CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using reMask parameter 3GPP 3.2.5.1.5 MANDATORY DL/UL – Resource Allocation CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using Non-contiguous PRB 3.2.5.1.6 MANDATORY Allocation Section Extension 6 3GPP DL/UL – Resource Allocation CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended 3GPP DL/UL – Resource 3.2.5.1.7 MANDATORY Allocation – Coupling C and U plane via time and frequency CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended 3GPP DL/UL – Coupling C and U 3.2.5.1.8 MANDATORY plane via Time and Frequency and Section Description Priorities CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using Non-contiguous PRB 3.2.5.1.9 MANDATORY Allocation Section Extension 12 3GPP DL/UL – Resource Allocation CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Static SRS Allocation UL – Resource 3.2.5.1.10 MANDATORY Allocation CONDITIONAL UC Plane O-RU Base Class TDD Test UL – Static PRACH allocation 3.2.5.1.11 MANDATORY CONDITIONAL UC Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using section extension 13 for 3.2.5.1.12 MANDATORY frequency hopping UL/DL – Resource Allocation UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming (BFM) CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – No Beamforming 3.2.5.2.1 MANDATORY CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – No Beamforming 3.2.5.2.2 MANDATORY CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Predefined-beam 3.2.5.2.3 MANDATORY Beamforming CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – Predefined-beam 3.2.5.2.4 MANDATORY Beamforming CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Weight-based 3.2.5.2.5 MANDATORY Dynamic Beamforming CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – Weight-based 3.2.5.2.6 MANDATORY Dynamic Beamforming CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Attribute-based 3.2.5.2.7 MANDATORY Dynamic Beamforming CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – Attribute-based 3.2.5.2.8 MANDATORY Dynamic Beamforming CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Channel- 3.2.5.2.9 MANDATORY Information-based Beamforming CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – Channel- 3.2.5.2.10 MANDATORY Information-based Beamforming CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – DMRS based 3.2.5.2.11 MANDATORY Beamforming CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – DMRS based 3.2.5.2.12 MANDATORY Beamforming about Symbol reordering CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using section 24 for DMRS-BF 3.2.5.2.13 MANDATORY CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class RRM Measurements for DMRS-BF 3.2.5.2.14 MANDATORY CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using section extension ST9 for 3.2.5.2.15 MANDATORY DMRS-BF CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – DMRS based 3.2.5.2.16 MANDATORY Beamforming using Frequency offset feedback O-RU Test Test Number Test Description Requirement CONDITIONAL UC Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using section extension 27 for 3.2.5.2.17 MANDATORY DMRS-BF UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression (CMP) CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) Fixed-Point 3.2.5.3.2 MANDATORY (FP) CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) Block 3.2.5.3.3 MANDATORY Floating Point (BFP) CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) Block 3.2.5.3.4 MANDATORY Scaling CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) Mu-Law 3.2.5.3.5 MANDATORY (MLW) CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) Modulation- 3.2.5.3.6 MANDATORY Compression CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static (NS) Fixed-Point 3.2.5.3.7 MANDATORY (FPF) CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static (NS) Block Floating 3.2.5.3.8 MANDATORY Point CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static (NS) Block Scaling 3.2.5.3.9 MANDATORY (BSC) CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static (NS) Mu-Law 3.2.5.3.10 MANDATORY (MLW) CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static Format (NS) 3.2.5.3.11 MANDATORY Modulation-Compressed Format CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) Block 3.2.5.3.12 MANDATORY Floating Point + Selective RE Format CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) mod-compr 3.2.5.3.13 MANDATORY + Selective RE Format CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static Format (NS) Block 3.2.5.3.14 MANDATORY Floating Point + Selective RE Format CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static Format (NS) mod- 3.2.5.3.15 MANDATORY compr + Selective RE Format UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Delay Management (DLM)

##### 3.2.5.4.1 MANDATORY UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class DLM Test #1: Downlink – Positive testing

##### 3.2.5.4.2 MANDATORY UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class DLM Test #2: Uplink – Positive testing

##### 3.2.5.4.3 MANDATORY UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class DLM Test #3: Downlink – Negative testing

##### 3.2.5.4.4 MANDATORY UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class DLM Test #4: Uplink – Negative Testing
UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class LAA (LAA) CONDITIONAL CU-DU-LAA-CWM Test #1: LBT PDSCH Configuration and Response 3.2.5.6.1 MANDATORY UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class LTE (LTE) CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Base 3GPP DL 3.2.5.7.1 MANDATORY CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended 3GPP DL – Resource Allocation 3.2.5.7.2 MANDATORY CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended 3GPP UL – Resource Allocation 3.2.5.7.3 MANDATORY CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using reMask parameter 3GPP DL 3.2.5.7.4 MANDATORY – Resource allocation CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class With Precoding (WPR) TxD 3.2.5.7.5 MANDATORY CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class With Precoding (WPR) SM 3.2.5.7.6 MANDATORY UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Section Type 3 (ST3) O-RU Test Test Number Test Description Requirement

##### 3.2.5.8.1 MANDATORY UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class ST3 Test #1: NR PRACH
CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class ST3 Test #2: LTE PRACH 3.2.5.8.2 MANDATORY UC-Plane: FR1 and FR2 TDD Non-conducted OTA Signal Tests UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class NR testing Generic (NRG)

##### 3.2.6.1.1 MANDATORY UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Base 3GPP DL/UL
UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended 3GPP DL/UL – Resource

##### 3.2.6.1.2 MANDATORY
Allocation CONDITIONAL 3.2.6.1.3 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using SymInc parameter 3.2.6.1.3 MANDATORY 3GPP DL/UL – Resource Allocation CONDITIONAL 3.2.6.1.4 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using reMask parameter 3.2.6.1.4 MANDATORY 3GPP DL/UL – Resource Allocation

##### 3.2.6.1.5 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using RB parameter

##### 3.2.6.1.5 MANDATORY
3GPP DL/UL – Resource Allocation CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using Non-contiguous PRB 3.2.6.1.6 MANDATORY Allocation Section Extension 6 3GPP DL/UL – Resource Allocation CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended 3GPP DL/UL – Resource 3.2.6.1.7 MANDATORY Allocation – Coupling C and U plane via time and frequency CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended 3GPP DL/UL – Coupling C and U 3.2.6.1.8 MANDATORY plane via Time and Frequency and Section Description Priorities CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using Non-contiguous PRB 3.2.6.1.9 MANDATORY Allocation Section Extension 12 3GPP DL/UL – Resource Allocation CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Static SRS Allocation UL – Resource 3.2.6.1.10 MANDATORY Allocation CONDITIONAL UC Plane O-RU Base Class TDD Test UL – Static PRACH allocation 3.2.6.1.11 MANDATORY CONDITIONAL UC Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using section extension 13 for 3.2.6.1.12 MANDATORY frequency hopping UL/DL – Resource Allocation UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming (BFM) CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – No Beamforming 3.2.6.2.1 MANDATORY CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – No Beamforming 3.2.6.2.2 MANDATORY CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Predefined-beam 3.2.6.2.3 MANDATORY Beamforming CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – Predefined-beam 3.2.6.2.4 MANDATORY Beamforming CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Weight-based 3.2.6.2.5 MANDATORY Dynamic Beamforming CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – Weight-based 3.2.6.2.6 MANDATORY Dynamic Beamforming CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Attribute-based 3.2.6.2.7 MANDATORY Dynamic Beamforming CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – Attribute-based 3.2.6.2.8 MANDATORY Dynamic Beamforming CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Channel- 3.2.6.2.9 MANDATORY Information-based Beamforming CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – Channel- 3.2.6.2.10 MANDATORY Information-based Beamforming UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression (CMP) CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) Fixed-Point 3.2.6.3.2 MANDATORY (FP) CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) Block 3.2.6.3.3 MANDATORY Floating Point (BFP) CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) Block 3.2.6.3.4 MANDATORY Scaling O-RU Test Test Number Test Description Requirement CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) Mu-Law 3.2.6.3.5 MANDATORY (MLW) CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) Modulation- 3.2.6.3.6 MANDATORY Compression CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static (NS) Fixed-Point 3.2.6.3.7 MANDATORY (FPF) CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static (NS) Block Floating 3.2.6.3.8 MANDATORY Point CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static (NS) Block Scaling 3.2.6.3.9 MANDATORY (BSC) CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static (NS) Mu-Law 3.2.6.3.10 MANDATORY (MLW) CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static Format (NS) 3.2.6.3.11 MANDATORY Modulation-Compressed Format CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (NS) Block 3.2.6.3.12 MANDATORY Floating Point + Selective RE Format CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (NS) mod-compr 3.2.6.3.13 MANDATORY + Selective RE Format CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static Format (NS) Block 3.2.6.3.14 MANDATORY Floating Point + Selective RE Format CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static Format (NS) mod- 3.2.6.3.15 MANDATORY compr + Selective RE Format UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Delay Management (DLM)

##### 3.2.6.4.1 MANDATORY UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class DLM Test #1: Downlink – Positive testing

##### 3.2.6.4.2 MANDATORY UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class DLM Test #2: Uplink – Positive testing

##### 3.2.6.4.3 MANDATORY UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class DLM Test #3: Downlink – Negative testing

##### 3.2.6.4.4 MANDATORY UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class DLM Test #4: Uplink – Negative Testing
UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class LAA (LAA) CONDITIONAL CU-DU-LAA-CWM Test #1: LBT PDSCH Configuration and Response 3.2.6.6.1 MANDATORY UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class LTE (LTE)

#### 3.2.6.7 For Future Study
UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Section Type 3 (ST3)

##### 3.2.6.8.1 MANDATORY UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class ST3 Test #1: NR PRACH
CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class ST3 Test #2: LTE PRACH 3.2.6.8.2 MANDATORY UC-Plane: Energy Savings UC-Plane C-Plane based TRX control CONDITIONAL C-plane based TRX control (defined-duration sleep, guaranteed wake-up 3.2.7.1.1 MANDATORY duration) CONDITIONAL C-plane based TRX control (defined-duration sleep, minimum wake-up 3.2.7.1.2 MANDATORY duration) CONDITIONAL C-plane based TRX control (undefined-duration sleep, guaranteed wake-up 3.2.7.1.3 MANDATORY duration) CONDITIONAL C-plane based TRX control (undefined-duration sleep, minimum wake-up 3.2.7.1.4 MANDATORY duration) CONDITIONAL C-plane based TRX control (sleep extension) 3.2.7.1.5 MANDATORY CONDITIONAL C-plane based TRX control (Emergency wake-up) 3.2.7.1.6 MANDATORY UC-Plane Advanced Sleep Mode O-RU Test Test Number Test Description Requirement CONDITIONAL Advanced sleep mode (defined-duration sleep, guaranteed wake-up duration) 3.2.7.2.1 MANDATORY CONDITIONAL Advanced sleep mode (defined-duration sleep, minimum wake-up duration) 3.2.7.2.2 MANDATORY CONDITIONAL Advanced sleep mode (undefined-duration sleep, guaranteed wake-up 3.2.7.2.3 MANDATORY duration) CONDITIONAL Advanced sleep mode (undefined-duration sleep, minimum wake-up duration) 3.2.7.2.4 MANDATORY

##### 3.2.7.2.5 CONDITIONAL Advanced sleep mode (sleep extension)
MANDATORY CONDITIONAL Advanced sleep mode (Emergency wake-up) 3.2.7.2.6 MANDATORY UC-Plane Mixed sleep modes and overlapping commands CONDITIONAL ASM overlapping commands 3.2.7.3.1 MANDATORY CONDITIONAL C-plane based TRX Control overlapping sleep modes 3.2.7.3.2 MANDATORY CONDITIONAL ASM and C-Plane based TRX control overlapping commands 3.2.7.3.3 MANDATORY O-RU or O-DU Test Test Number Test Description Requirement S-Plane Conformance Tests 3.3.2 MANDATORY Functional test of O-RU using ITU-T G.8275.1 Profile (LLS-C1/C2/C3) 3.3.3 MANDATORY Performance test of O-RU using ITU-T G.8275.1 Profile (LLS-C1/C2/C3)

### 3.3.4 For Future Study Performance test of O-RU using LLS-C4
Functional test of O-DU Synchronized from ITU-T G.8275.1 profile

### 3.3.5 MANDATORY
PRTC/T-GM (LLS-C1/C2/C3/C4) CONDITIONAL Functional test of O-DU Synchronized from Embedded or Local non-PTP 3.3.6 MANDATORY PRTC (LLS-C1/C2/C3/C4) CONDITIONAL Performance test of O-DU Synchronized from either Local or Remote 3.3.7 MANDATORY PRTC using ITU-T G.8275.1 PTP Profile (LLS-C1/C2/C3/C4) CONDITIONAL Performance test of O-DU Synchronized from Embedded GNSS receiver 3.3.8 MANDATORY (LLS-C1/C2/C3/C4) O-DU Test Test Number Test Description Requirement UC-Plane Measurements O-DU

##### 3.4.4.1.1 MANDATORY UC-Plane O-DU Scenario Class NR testing Generic (NRG)

##### 3.4.4.1.2 MANDATORY UC-Plane O-DU Scenario Class Base CAT-B O-RU
UC-Plane O-DU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP – Predefined-beam

##### 3.4.4.2.1 MANDATORY
Beamforming CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-DU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP – Weight-based 3.4.4.2.2 MANDATORY Beamforming CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-DU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP – DMRS-BF-NEQ 3.4.4.2.3 MANDATORY CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-DU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP – DMRS-BF-EQ 3.4.4.2.4 MANDATORY

##### 3.4.4.3.1 MANDATORY Static Format Fixed-Point (FP) Uncompressed
CONDITIONAL UC-Plane O-DU Scenario Class Compression (CMP) Static Format Block 3.4.4.3.2 MANDATORY Floating Point

##### 3.4.4.4.1 MANDATORY Delay Management On-time arrival

##### 3.4.4.4.2 MANDATORY Delay Management Early Arrival and Late Arrival
FHM Test Test Number Test Description Requirement FHM M-Plane Measurements See Table 3.5.1.1-1 for FHM M-Plane Test Requirements FHM UC-Plane Measurements

##### 3.5.1.2.1 MANDATORY UC-Plane FHM Scenario Class Base 3GPP DL Same Cell Scenario

##### 3.5.1.2.2 MANDATORY UC-Plane FHM Scenario Class Base 3GPP UL

## 1.3 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this text, constitute provisions of the present document.
- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition number, version number, etc.) or
non-specific.
- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a reference to a 3GPP document
(including a GSM document), a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document. [1] ETSI TR 21.905, “Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications” [2] O-RAN.WG4.TS.CUS.0-R004-v18.00, “Control, User and Synchronization Plane Specification” [3] O-RAN WG4 Management Plane Specification version 17.00 [4] O-RAN Management Plane Yang Models version 17.00 [5] Recommendation ITU-T G.8275.1 (Amendment 2) (03/2018): “Precision time protocol telecom profile for phase/time synchronization with full timing support from the network” [6] Recommendation ITU-T G.8275.2 (Amendment 2) (03/2018): Precision time protocol telecom profile for phase/time synchronization with partial timing support from the network” [7] Recommendation ITU-T G.8271.1 (Amendment 1) (03/2018): “Network limits for time synchronization in packet networks” [8] Recommendation ITU-T G.8271.2 (Amendment 1) (03/2018): “Network limits for time synchronization in packet networks with partial timing support from the network” [9] Recommendation ITU-T G.8273(03/2018): “Framework of phase and time clocks” [10] Recommendation ITU-T G.8261(08/2013): “Timing and synchronization aspects in packet networks” [11] eCPRI Specification v2.0 “Common Public Radio Interface: eCPRI Interface Specification”, May 2019 [12] ETSI TS 136.104, “Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception” [13] ETSI TS 138.104, “NR; Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception” [14] ETSI TS 136.211, “Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) Physical channels and modulation” [15] ETSI TS 138.211, “NR; Physical channels and modulation”, (Release 15), 3GPP [16] ETSI TS 136.331, “Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); Radio Resource Control (RRC)”, Release 15, 3GPP [17] ETSI TS 138.331, “NR; Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol specification”, (Release 15), 3GPP [18] ETSI TS 136.141, “Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); Base Station (BS) conformance testing”, (Release 15), 3GPP [19] ETSI TS 138.141-1, “NR; Base Station (BS) conformance testing Part 1: Conducted conformance testing (Release 15)”, 3GPP [20] ETSI TS 138.141-2, “NR; Base Station (BS) conformance testing Part 2: Radiated conformance testing” (Release 15), 3GPP [21] ETSI TS 123.401, “General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) enhancements for Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) access”, 3GPP [22] ETSI TS 123.502, “Procedures for the 5G System (5GS)”, (Release 15), 3GPP [23] ETSI TS 137.340, “Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and NR; Multi-connectivity”, (Release 15), 3GPP [24] ETSI TS 138.214, “NR; Physical layer procedures for data”, (Release 15), 3GPP [25] O-RAN WG4 Fronthaul Interoperability Test Specification (IOT) version 07.00 [26] Recommendation ITU-T G.8273.2/Y.1368.2 (06/2023): ”Timing characteristics of telecom boundary clocks and telecom time slave clocks” [27] O-RAN WG5 O1 Interface specification for O-DU [28] Recommendation ITU-T G.8273.3 (10/2020): “Timing characteristics of telecom transparent clocks for use with full timing support from the network” [29] Recommendation ITU-T G.8262 (11/2018) “Timing characteristics of a synchronous equipment slave clock” [30] Recommendation ITU-T G.8262.1 (11/2022): “Timing characteristics of enhanced synchronous equipment slave clock” [31] Recommendation ITU-T G.8271 (03/2020): “Time and phase synchronization aspects of telecommunication networks” [32] IEEE Std 1588-2008, "Standard for a Precision Clock Synchronization Protocol for Networked Measurement and Control Systems" [33] IEEE Std 802.1CM-2018, “Standard for a Precision Clock Synchronization Protocol for Networked Measurement and Control Systems” [34] Recommendation ITU-T G.703 (04/2016): “Physical/electrical characteristics of hierarchical digital interfaces” [35] Recommendation ITU-T G.8272 (11/2018): “Timing characteristics of primary reference time clocks” [36] Recommendation ITU-T G.8264 (08/2017): “Distribution of timing information through packet networks” [37] Recommendation ITU-T G.803 (03/2000): “Architecture of transport networks based on the synchronous digital hierarchy (SDH)”

## 1.4 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in ETSI TR 21.905, “Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications”[1]and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in [1] C-Plane Control Plane: refers specifically to real-time control between O-DU and O-RU, and should not be confused with the UE’s control plane DL DownLink: data flow towards the radiating antenna DMRS-BF-EQ Demodulation Reference Signal-based beamforming with equalization in the O-RU. DMRS-BF-NEQ Demodulation Reference Signal-based beamforming without equalization in the O-RU. eNB eNodeB (applies to LTE) <E-UTRAN NodeB / Evolved NodeB> EVM Error Vector Magnitude – see clause 6.5.2 Modulation quality in ETSI TS 138.104 fm-pm Fault Management, Performance Management role gNB gNodeB (applies to NR) <Next Generation NodeB> M-Plane Management Plane: refers to non-real-time management operations between the O-DU and the O- RU NETCONF Network Configuration Protocol. For details see: RFC 6241, “Network Configuration Protocol (NETCONF)”, IETF, June 2011 NSA Non-Stand-Alone network mode that supports operation of SgNB attached to MeNB O-CU O-RAN Central Unit – a logical node hosting PDCP, RRC, SDAP and other control functions O-DU O-RAN Distributed Unit: a logical node hosting RLC/MAC/High-PHY layers based on a lower layer functional split. O-DU in addition hosts an M-Plane instance. O-RU O-RAN Radio Unit <O-RAN Radio Unit: a logical node hosting Low-PHY layer and RF processing based on a lower layer functional split. This is similar to 3GPP’s “TRP” or “RRH” but more specific in including the Low-PHY layer (FFT/iFFT, PRACH extraction).>. O-RU in addition hosts M-Plane instance. PTP Precision Time Protocol (PTP) is a protocol for distributing precise time and frequency over packet networks. PTP is defined in the IEEE Standard 1588. PDCCH Physical Downlink Control Channel applies for LTE and NR air interface PBCH Physical Broadcast Channel applies for LTE and NR air interface SA Stand-Alone network mode that supports operation of gNB attached to a 5G Core Network SCS OFDM Sub Carrier Spacing SSB Synchronization Signal Block, in 5G PBCH and synchronization signal are packaged as a single block subordinate The term “subordinate” is used as a replacement for “slave” and is consistent with its use in CUS specification. When consensus emerges on how to eliminate the use of the term “slave” in the referenced standards organization, that approach will be applied to this specification sudo Super-User Do role S-Plane Synchronization Plane: Data flow for synchronization and timing information between nodes SyncE Synchronous Ethernet, is an ITU-T standard for computer networking that facilitates distribution of clock signals over the Ethernet physical layer T-BC Telecom Boundary Clock TWAMP Two-Way Active Measurement Protocol UDP User Datagram Protocol UE User Equipment terminology for a mobile device in LTE and NR UL UpLink: data flow from the UE towards the core network, that is from the O-RU towards in the O- DU in a Fronthaul context.

## 1.5 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply. C-Plane Control Plane: refers specifically to real-time control between O-DU and O-RU, and should not be confused with the UE’s control plane CUSM-E C-Plane, U-Plane, S-Plane and M-plane emulator – test equipment capable of sending and receiving required messages for all of these protocol planes when the Radio Unit is the device under test DL DownLink: data flow towards the radiating antenna DUT Device Under Test eNB e NodeB (applies to LTE) <E-UTRAN NodeB / Evolved NodeB> gNB g NodeB (applies to NR) <Next Generation NodeB> M-Plane Management Plane: refers to non-real-time management operations between the O-DU and the O- RU NETCONF Network Configuration Protocol. For details see RFC 6241, “Network Configuration Protocol (NETCONF)”, IETF, June 2011 O-DU O-RAN Distributed Unit <O-RAN Distributed Unit: a logical node hosting PDCP/RLC/MAC/High-PHY layers based on a lower layer functional split.> O-RU O-RAN Radio Unit <O-RAN Radio Unit: a logical node hosting Low-PHY layer and RF processing based on a lower layer functional split. This is similar to 3GPP’s “TRP” or “RRH” but more specific in including the Low-PHY layer (FFT/iFFT, PRACH extraction).> SMO Service Management and Orchestration S-Plane Synchronization Plane: refers to traffic between the O-RU or O-DU to a synchronization controller which is generally an IEEE-1588 Grand Master (however, Grand Master functionality may be embedded in the O-DU). TED Test Equipment, O-DU – test equipment used to validate the O-DU TER Test Equipment, O-RU – test equipment used to validate the O-RU UL UpLink: data flow away from the radiating antenna U-Plane User Plane: refers to IQ sample data transferred between O-DU and O-RU

## 2.3 Test Configuration for Shared Cell Configurations
There are two Shared Cell configurations defined as Shared Cell modes in [2]. These configurations are FHM mode and Cascade mode. FHM mode includes a device called the Fronthaul Multiplexor (FHM). The Cascade mode does not include the FHM.

### 2.3.1 Test Configuration for FHM as the Device Under Test
When testing the Fronthaul Multiplexor (FHM), it is connected to test equipment called Test Equipment Fronthaul Multiplexor (TEM). The TEM is shown in Figure 2.3-1 below. TEM surrounds the DUT and connects to both the northbound port and southbound ports of FHM. At the northbound interface, TEM acts as an O-DU-Emulator, connecting to the DUT through the fronthaul interface, with necessary CUSM-Plane capabilities to conduct the test cases described in clause 3.5 of the present specification. At the southbound interface, TEM acts as O-RU+UE Emulator, emulating multiple O-RUs. In the present specification, only the same cell scenario is considered. The TEM also supports multiple UEs attached to each of the emulated O-RUs. TEM connects to multiple physical ports (a minimum of 3) of the DUT. Each of these physical ports is an eCPRI Ethernet link with necessary CUSM-Plane capabilities to conduct the test cases described in chapter 3.5 of this document.

# 3 Conformance Measurements

## 3.1 M-Plane Measurements for O-RU
The O-RAN Fronthaul management plane (M-Plane) protocol conformance tests are described in this clause. The M- Plane is based on the NETCONF network element management protocol and YANG data modelling language. The NETCONF protocol uses a client and server model for all exchanges of information and execution of RPCs. Every NETCONF transaction is a 2-way exchange involving the client and the server. An O-DU supports a NETCONF client. An O-RU supports a NETCONF server. A FHM supports a NETCONF server. Any M-Plane conformance test will require both a NETCONF client and a NETCONF server. Because many YANG models are shared by all applicable fronthaul devices including the O-DU, O-RU and FHM, most M-Plane conformance tests apply to all of these fronthaul devices. However, because some YANG models are applicable only with an O-RU as a NETCONF server and some applicable only to a FHM NETCONF server, FHM M-Plane test cases are described within the FHM clauses (clause 3.5.1.1 FHM M-Plane Tests) of the present document. The following clauses describe Conformance Tests for the M-Plane for an O-RU as the device under test. Table 1.2.4- lists all M-Plane test cases applicable to an O-RU for conformance testing.

### 3.1.1 Transport and Handshake Test Scenarios

#### 3.1.1.1 Transport and Handshake in IPv4/SSH Environment (positive case)
A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY for an O-RU or O-DU that declares support for IPv4. This scenario validates that the O-RU properly executes the session establishment procedure with VLANs and a DHCPv4 server. This test is applicable to IPv4 environments. This scenario corresponds to the following clause in [3]:
- 6.2 Management Plane Transport aspects
- 6.3 NETCONF Call Home to O-RU Controller(s)
B. Test Entrance Criteria The minimum functions of the TER described in clause 2.1 that support validation of the M-Plane are operational, configured and connected to the O-RU C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions 1. The O-RU is powered on and has an ethernet connection to the DHCP-server 2. The configured DHCPv4 server is reachable by the O-RU NETCONF Server through the VLAN configured for M-Plane. 3. Default SSH credentials (sudo) are used by both the O-RU NETCONF Server and the TER NETCONF Client 4. IP details for test purposes are pre-defined and fixed (applies to the DHCP server). b. Procedure 1. The O-RU NETCONF Server can be preconfigured with no VLAN (known in 802.1Q as native ethernet or an untagged VLAN), a VLAN ID or may optionally perform a VLAN scan by issuing DHCP Discover trying to reach the DHCP Server 2. The O-RU NETCONF Server continues the DHCPv4 procedure on the preconfigured VLAN or first VLAN where the Offer from DHCP Server / Relay is received if the scan method is used 3. O-RU NETCONF Server retrieves IP details and the IP address of the controlling TER NETCONF Client from the DHCP Server.
> NOTE: RFC 2131 is followed for DHCPv4
4. The O-RU NETCONF Server establishes TCP connection and performs a Call Home procedure towards the NETCONF Client using the IP details obtained in step 3 5. The TER NETCONF Client establishes a SSH session with the O-RU NETCONF Server. Proper credentials are used. 6. The O-RU NETCONF Server accepts the SSH session establishment from the TER NETCONF Client 7. The TER NETCONF Client and O-RU NETCONF Server exchange capabilities through NETCONF <hello> messages. The following is an abbreviated example of the capabilities exchange. A typical capabilities exchange will have far more parameters included.
> NOTE: RFC 6241 is followed for NETCONF communication.
Server (O-RU) initiates Hello message . <hello xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0"> <capabilities> <capability>urn:ietf:params:netconf:base:1.0</capability> <capability>urn:ietf:params:netconf:base:1.1</capability> <capability>urn:ietf:params:netconf:capability:writable- running:1.0</capability> <capability>urn:ietf:params:netconf:capability:notification:1.0</capab ility> <capability>urn:ietf:params:netconf:capability:interleave:1.0</capabil ity> <capability>http://org/openroadm/user-mgmt?module=org-openroadm- user-mgmt&amp;amp;amp;revision=2017-12-15</capability> …… </capabilities> <session-id>1</session-id> </hello> Client (DU) responds with Hello message … <hello xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0"> <capabilities> <capability>urn:ietf:params:netconf:base:1.0</capability> <capability>urn:ietf:params:netconf:base:1.1</capability> </capabilities> </hello> D. Test Requirement (expected result) Test scenario step 7 is performed successfully.

#### 3.1.1.2 Transport and Handshake in IPv4/SSH Environment (negative case)
A. Test Description and Applicability This scenario is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY for both O-RU and O-DU Tests. This scenario validates that the O-RU properly executes the session establishment procedure with VLANs and a DHCPv4 server. This test is applicable to IPv4 environments. Two negative flows are included in this test:
- The TER NETCONF Client does not trigger a SSH session establishment in reaction to Call Home
initiated by THE O-RU NETCONF Server.
- The TER NETCONF Client uses improper credentials when trying to establish a SSH session with the O-
RU NETCONF Server. This scenario corresponds to the following clause in [3]:
- 6.2 Management Plane Transport aspects
- 6.3 NETCONF Call Home to O-RU Controller(s)
B. Test Entrance Criteria The minimum functions of the TER described in clause 2.1 that support validation of the M-Plane are operational, configured and connected to the O-RU. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions a. O-RU is powered on and has an ethernet connection to the DHCP-server b. Configured DHCPv4 server is reachable for O-RU NETCONF Server through the VLAN configured for M-Plane. c. Default SSH credentials (sudo) are used by both O-RU NETCONF Server and NETCONF Client d. IP details for test purposes are pre-defined and fixed (applies to DHCP server). b. Procedure i. Flow 1 1. The O-RU NETCONF Server can be preconfigured with no VLAN (known in 802.1Q as native ethernet or an untagged VLAN), a VLAN ID or may optionally perform a VLAN scan by issuing a DHCP Discover trying to reach DHCP Server 2. The O-RU NETCONF Server continues the DHCPv4 procedure on the preconfigured VLAN or first VLAN where the Offer from the DHCP Server / Relay is received if the scan method is used 3. The O-RU NETCONF Server retrieves IP details and the IP address of controlling TER NETCONF Client from the DHCP Server.
> NOTE: RFC 2131 is followed for DHCPv4.
4. The O-RU NETCONF Server establishes TCP connection and performs Call Home procedure with the TER NETCONF Client using IP details obtained in step 3 5. The TER NETCONF Client does not initiate the SSH session establishment procedure. 6. The O-RU NETCONF Server periodically repeats the Call Home towards TER NETCONF Client. ii. Flow 2 1. The O-RU NETCONF Server can be preconfigured with a VLAN ID or may optionally perform a VLAN scan by issuing a DHCP Discover trying to reach the DHCP Server 2. The O-RU NETCONF Server continues the DHCPv4 procedure on the preconfigured VLAN or first VLAN where the Offer from the DHCP Server / Relay is received if the scan method is used 3. The O-RU NETCONF Server retrieves IP details and the IP address of the controlling TER NETCONF Client from DHCP Server.
> NOTE: RFC 2131 is followed for DHCPv4.
4. The O-RU NETCONF Server establishes a TCP connection and performs the Call Home procedure with the TER NETCONF Client using IP details obtained in step 3 5. The TER NETCONF Client initiates the SSH session establishment procedure with improper credentials. 6. Due to the incorrect SSH credentials, the O-RU NETCONF Server rejects the SSH session establishment from the TER NETCONF Client. 7. The O-RU NETCONF Server starts periodic Call Home procedure towards the TER NETCONF Client. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. Flow 1: Scenario reaches step 6. The O-RU NETCONF Server falls into Call Home procedure loop. 2. Flow 2: Scenario reaches step 7. The O-RU NETCONF Server falls into Call Home procedure loop.

#### 3.1.1.3 Transport and Handshake in IPv6/SSH Environment (positive case)
The test description, applicability, entrance criteria, methodology and requirements are the same as in clause 3.1.1.1, Transport and Handshake in IPv4/SSH Environment (positive case). The only difference is that this test is applicable to IPv6 environments including DHCPv6. This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

#### 3.1.1.4 Transport and Handshake in IPv6/SSH Environment (negative case)
The test description, applicability, entrance criteria, methodology and requirements are the same as in clause 3.1.1.2, Transport and Handshake in IPv4/SSH Environment (negative case). The only difference is that this test is applicable to IPv6 environments including DHCPv6. This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

#### 3.1.1.5 Transport and Handshake in IPv4/TLS Environment (positive case)
The test description, applicability, entrance criteria, methodology and requirements are the same as in clause 3.1.1.1, Transport and Handshake in IPv4/SSH Environment (positive case). The only difference is that this test is applicable to IPv4 and TLS environments including DHCPv4. This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

#### 3.1.1.6 Transport and Handshake in IPv4/TLS Environment (negative case)
The test description, applicability, entrance criteria, methodology and requirements are the same as in clause 3.1.1.2, Transport and Handshake in IPv4/SSH Environment (negative case). The only difference is that this test is applicable to IPv4 and TLS environments including DHCPv4. This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

#### 3.1.1.7 Transport and Handshake in IPv6/TLS Environment (positive case)
The test description, applicability, entrance criteria, methodology and requirements are the same as in clause 3.1.1.1, Transport and Handshake in IPv4/SSH Environment (positive case). The only difference is that this test is applicable to IPv6 and TLS environments including DHCPv6. This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

#### 3.1.1.8 Transport and Handshake in IPv6/TLS Environment (negative case)
The test description, applicability, entrance criteria, methodology and requirements are the same as in clause 3.1.1.2, Transport and Handshake in IPv4/SSH Environment (negative case). The only difference is that this test is applicable to IPv6 and TLS environments including DHCPv6. This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY.

### 3.1.2 Subscription to Notification

#### 3.1.2.1 Subscription to NETCONF Event Stream
A. Test Description and Applicability This test is MANDATORY for O-RU. This test validates that the O-RU properly handles a NETCONF subscription to the default “NETCONF” event stream. This scenario corresponds to the following clause in [3]:
- 9.1.7 Notification framework.
B. Test Entrance Criteria The minimum functions of the TER described in clause 2.1 that support validation of the M-Plane are operational, configured and connected to the O-RU C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions 1. The test procedure described in clause 3.1.1.1 (IPv4/SSH) or 3.1.1.3 (IPv6/SSH) or 3.1.1.5 (IPv4/TLS) or

#### 3.1.1.7 (IPv6/TLS) is successfully completed.
b. Procedure 1. The TER NETCONF Client triggers the subscription: <rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="0"> <create-subscription xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:notification:1.0"> <stream>NETCONF</stream> </create-subscription> </rpc> to the O-RU NETCONF Server to subscribe to notifications related to the supervision process.
> NOTE: <stream>NETCONF</stream> is intentional, meaning that the TER NETCONF Client
subscribes to all notifications that the O-RU NETCONF Server can generate (including alarm notifications). 2. The O-RU NETCONF Server responds with <rpc-reply xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message- id="0"> <ok/> </rpc-reply> to the TER NETCONF Client.
> NOTE: RFC 6241 is followed for NETCONF communication.
D. Test Requirement (expected result) Test scenario step 2 is performed successfully.

### 3.1.3 M-Plane Connection Supervision

#### 3.1.3.1 M-Plane connection supervision (positive case)
A. Test Description and Applicability This scenario is MANDATORY O-RU. This test validates that the O-RU manages the connection supervision process correctly. This scenario corresponds to the following clause in [3]:
- 6.7 Monitoring NETCONF connectivity
B. Test Entrance Criteria The minimum functions of the TER described in clause 2.1 that support validation of the M-Plane are operational, configured and connected to the O-RU C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions 1. The test procedure described in clause 3.1.1.1 (IPv4/SSH) or 3.1.1.3 (IPv6/SSH) or 3.1.1.5 (IPv4/TLS) or

#### 3.1.1.7 (IPv6/TLS) is successfully completed.
b. Procedure 1. The O-RU NETCONF Server notification timer expires 2. The O-RU NETCONF Server sends a supervision notification message to the TER NETCONF Client. Note that the time in this example is shown generically and will be the current time during this test. <notification xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:notification:1.0"> <eventTime>YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.FZ</eventTime> <supervision-notification xmlns="urn:o-ran:supervision:1.0"/> </notification>
> NOTE: For the O-RU that supports feature SUPERVISION-WITH-SESSION-ID, these supervision-
notification messages indicate the NETCONF session-id associated with the subscription to the event notification, as specified in clause 6.7 of [3]. 3. The TER NETCONF Client responds with <rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message- id="20"> <supervision-watchdog-reset xmlns="urn:o-ran:supervision:1.0"> <supervision-notification-interval>60</supervision- notification-interval> <guard-timer-overhead>10</guard-timer-overhead> </supervision-watchdog-reset> </rpc> to the O-RU NETCONF Server. 4. The O-RU NETCONF Server sends a reply to the TER NETCONF Client <rpc-reply xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message- id="20"> <next-update-at xmlns="urn:o-ran:supervision:1.0">YYYY-MM- DDTHH:MM:SS.FZ </next-update-at> </rpc-reply>
> NOTE: The TER NETCONF Client can change the value of the supervision timer in the supervision
watchdog reset message. The O-RU NETCONF server adjusts the timer accordingly if this optional change of the value of the supervision timer is performed. 5. The O-RU NETCONF Server sends a supervision notification towards the TER NETCONF Client with respect to time-date sent in rpc-reply in step 4. 6. Steps 1 to 5 are looped for a total of 30 iterations including the first pass through steps 1 to 5.
> NOTE: RFC 6241 is followed for NETCONF communication.
D. Test Requirement (expected result) Test scenario step 6 is performed successfully in all iterations.

#### 3.1.3.2 M-Plane Connection Supervision (negative case)
A. Test Description and Applicability This scenario is MANDATORY for both O-RU and O-DU Tests. This test validates that the O-RU manages the connection supervision process correctly. This scenario corresponds to the following clause in [3]:
- 6.7 Monitoring NETCONF connectivity
B. Test Entrance Criteria The minimum functions of the TER described in clause 2.1 that support validation of the M-Plane are operational, configured and connected to the O-RU C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions 1. The test procedure described in clause 3.1.1.1 (IPv4/SSH) or 3.1.1.3 (IPv6/SSH) or 3.1.1.5 (IPv4/TLS) or

#### 3.1.1.7 (IPv6/TLS) is successfully completed.
b. Procedure 1. The O-RU NETCONF Server notification timer expires 2. The O-RU NETCONF Server sends a supervision notification message to the TER NETCONF Client 3. The TER NETCONF Client responds with <rpc supervision-watchdog-reset></rpc> to the O-RU NETCONF Server. 4. The O-RU NETCONF Server sends a reply to the TER NETCONF Client <rpc-reply><next-update-at>date-time</next-update-at></rpc-reply> Note that the TER NETCONF Client can change the value of the supervision timer in the supervision watchdog reset message. The O-RU NETCONF server must adjust the timer accordingly if this optional test is performed. 5. The O-RU NETCONF Server sends a supervision notification towards the TER NETCONF Client with respect to time-date sent in rpc-reply in step 4. 6. The TER NETCONF Client does not issue <rpc supervision-watchdog-reset></rpc> to the O-RU NETCONF Server and causes the supervision timer to expire on the O-RU. 7. The O-RU NETCONF Server enters the Supervision failure scenario. For details, please see O-RAN M- Plane Specification [3], chapter 14.1. D. Test Requirement (expected result) Test scenario step 7 is performed successfully.

### 3.1.4 Retrieval of O-RU's information elements

#### 3.1.4.1 Retrieval without Filter Applied
A. Test Description and Applicability This scenario is MANDATORY for both O-RU and O-DU Tests. This scenario validates that the O-RU NETCONF Server properly executes a general get command. This is a general-purpose high-level test related to NETCONF implementation. There is no direct relationship to a specific chapter in [3]: B. Test Entrance Criteria The minimum functions of the TER described in clause 2.1 that support validation of the M-Plane are operational, configured and connected to the O-RU. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions 1. The test procedure described in clause 3.1.1.1 (IPv4/SSH) or 3.1.1.3 (IPv6/SSH) or 3.1.1.5 (IPv4/TLS) or

#### 3.1.1.7 (IPv6/TLS) is successfully completed.
b. Procedure 1. The TER NETCONF Client triggers <rpc><get> towards the O-RU NETCONF Server. 2. The O-RU NETCONF Server responds with <rpc-reply><data> where <data> contains all information elements that the O-RU NETCONF Server is able to expose D. Test Requirement (expected result) Test step 2 is performed successfully.

#### 3.1.4.2 Retrieval with filter applied
A. Test Description and Applicability This scenario is MANDATORY This scenario validates that the O-RU NETCONF Server properly executes a get command with a filter applied. This is a general-purpose high-level test related to NETCONF implementation. There is no direct relationship to a specific chapter in [3]: B. Minimum Requirements The minimum functions of the TER described in clause 2.1 that support validation of the M-Plane are operational, configured and connected to the O-RU. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions 1. The test procedure described in clause 3.1.1.1 (IPv4/SSH) or 3.1.1.3 (IPv6/SSH) or 3.1.1.5 (IPv4/TLS) or

#### 3.1.1.7 (IPv6/TLS) respectively is successfully completed.
b. Procedure 1. The TER NETCONF Client triggers <rpc><get><filter> towards NETCONF Server. The <filter> argument contains a regular expression that the O-RU NETCONF Server shall apply as a filter. For example, a filter that filters all low-level-rx-endpoints: <rpc message-id="101" xmlns="urn:o-ran:uplane-conf:1.0" > <get xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0"> <filter type = ”subtree”> <user-plane-configuration xmlns="urn:o-ran:uplane-conf:1.0”> <low-level-rx-endpoints> </low-level-rx-endpoints> </user-plane-configuration> </top> </filter> </get> 2. The O-RU NETCONF Server responds with <rpc-reply><data> where <data> contains details for objects as conforming to the <filter> (as per the above example filter: all low-level-rx-endpoints) D. Test Requirement (expected result) Test step 2 is performed successfully.

### 3.1.5 Fault Management

#### 3.1.5.1 O-RU Alarm Notification Generation
A. Test Description and Applicability This scenario is MANDATORY for O-RU tests and OPTIONAL for O-DU tests. This scenario validates that the O-RU NETCONF Server properly sends and alarm notification. This scenario corresponds to the following clause in [3]:
- 11.2 Alarm Notification
B. Test Entrance Criteria The minimum functions of the TER described in clause 2.1 that support validation of the M-Plane are operational, configured and connected to the O-RU. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions i. The test procedure described in clause 3.1.2.1 for Subscription to Notifications is successfully completed. ii. Testing with S-plane: Ensure that the alarm for fault id 17 is not already raised in the system. iii. Testing without S-plane: Ensure that the alarm for fault id which is triggered using a maintenance tool or debug command is not already raised in system. b. Procedure i) Testing with S-Plane: 1. The TER NETCONF Client periodically tests O-RU’s sync-status until the LOCKED state is reached. <get xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0"> <filter type="subtree"> <sync xmlns="urn:o-ran:sync:1.0"> <sync-status/> </sync> </filter> </get> 2. Disable the Sync signal on the TER. 3. After a while (time depends on implementation) the O-RU NETCONF SERVER sends a notification for an alarm related to synchronization failure, e.g. alarm 17: No external sync source” or another vendor specific alarm. The format of alarm notification follows RFC5277. Note that the time in this example is shown generically and will be the current time during this test. <notification xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:notification:1.0"> <eventTime> YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.FZ </eventTime> <alarm-notif xmlns="urn:o-ran:fm:1.0"> <fault-id>17</fault-id> <fault-source>sync</fault-source> <affected-objects> <name>syncE</name> </affected-objects> <fault-severity>MAJOR</fault-severity> <is-cleared>false</is-cleared> <fault-text>No external sync source</fault-text> <event-time> YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.FZ </event-time> </alarm-notif> </notification> ii) Testing without S-Plane:
> NOTE: Since this validation is for O-RU NETCONF Server properly sending the alarm notification, this
is an alternative test method to testing with S-Plane. 1. Raise alarm notification using vendor specific maintenance tool or debug command. The debug command will generate a pseudo fault in the O-RU. The O-RU will add a new alarm caused by detecting the pseudo fault to the active alarm list and send the alarm notification. The O-RU NETCONF SERVER sends a notification for alarm. The format of alarm notification follows RFC5277. Note that the time in this example is shown generically and will be the current time during this test. The details related to fault in this example notification message is shown generically and will be the details for alarm which is triggered using maintenance tool or debug command. <notification xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:notification:1.0"> <eventTime> YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.FZ </eventTime> <alarm-notif xmlns="urn:o-ran:fm:1.0"> <fault-id>2</fault-id> <fault-source>Module</fault-source> <affected-objects> <name>HW</name> </affected-objects> <fault-severity>CRITICAL</fault-severity> <is-cleared>false</is-cleared> <fault-text> Unit dangerously overheating</fault-text> <event-time> YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.FZ </event-time> </alarm-notif> </notification> D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. With S-plane: Test step 3 is performed successfully. 2. Without S-plane: Test step 2 is performed successfully.

#### 3.1.5.2 Retrieval of Active Alarm List
A. Test Description and Applicability This scenario is MANDATORY for O-RU tests and OPTIONAL for O-DU tests. This scenario validates that the O-RU NETCONF Server can send an active alarms list to the TER NETCONF Client. This scenario corresponds to the following clause in [3]:
- 11. Fault Management
B. Test Entrance Criteria The minimum functions of the TER described in clause 2.1 that support validation of the M-Plane are operational, configured and connected to the O-RU. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions The test procedure described in clause 3.1.2.1 for Subscription to Notifications is successfully completed. b. Procedure 1. The TER NETCONF Client sends the O-RU NETCONF Server a command to get the active-alarm-list. <get xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0"> <filter type="subtree"> <active-alarm-list xmlns="urn:o-ran:fm:1.0"> </active-alarm-list> </filter> </get> 2. The O-RU NETCONF Server responds with <rpc-reply><data> where <data> contains at least the same alarm as reported in measurement in clause 3.1.5.1 for the procedure with S-Plane or without S-Plane. <rpc-reply xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message- id="11"> <data xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0"> <active-alarm-list xmlns="urn:o-ran:fm:1.0"> <active-alarms> <fault-id>17</fault-id> <fault-source>sync</fault-source> <affected-objects> <name>syncE</name> </affected-objects> <fault-severity>MAJOR</fault-severity> <is-cleared>false</is-cleared> <fault-text>No external sync source</fault-text> <event-time> YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.FZ </event-time> </active-alarms> </active-alarm-list> </data> </rpc-reply>
> NOTE: There can be more than one Active Alarm in the reply from O-RU. The details related to fault in
this example notification message is shown generically and will be the details for alarm which is triggered using maintenance tool or debug command. D. Test Requirement (expected result) Test step 2 is performed successfully.

### 3.1.6 O-RU Software Update

#### 3.1.6.1 O-RU Software Update and Install (positive case)
A. Test Description and Applicability This scenario is MANDATORY for both O-RU and O-DU Tests. This test validates that the O-RU can successfully perform a software download and software install procedure. This scenario corresponds to the following clause in [3]:
- 8. Software Management
B. Test Entrance Criteria The minimum functions of the TER described in clause 2.1 that support validation of the M-Plane are operational, configured and connected to the O-RU. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions 1. The test procedure described in clause 3.1.4.1 is successfully completed. 2. A correct and internally consistent SW package is available for test purposes. 3. The O-RU provides at least one slot available for SW update procedure. The status of this slot is assumed to be {active = False, running = False, access = READ-WRITE} 4. A sFTP/FTPES server is available with an account for the SW update procedure on the TER, using FTPES if the O-RU controller is using NETCONF/TLS to configure the O-RU. b. Procedure 1. The TER NETCONF Client triggers <rpc><software-download>. The O-RU NETCONF Server responds with <rpc-reply><software-download> <rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="13"> <software-download xmlns="urn:o-ran:software-management:1.0"> <remote-file- path>sftp://oranuser@192.168.3.13:22/software.zip</remote-file-path> </software-download> </rpc> <rpc-reply xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message- id="13"> <status xmlns="urn:o-ran:software-management:1.0">STARTED</status> </rpc-reply> 2. The O-RU NETCONF Server performs a software download procedure. When the download is completed, the O-RU NETCONF Server sends <notification><download-event> with status COMPLETED to TER NETCONF Client <notification xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:notification:1.0"> <eventTime> YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.FZ </eventTime> <download-event xmlns="urn:o-ran:software-management:1.0"> <file-name>sftp://oranuser@192.168.3.13:22/software.zip</file-name> <status>COMPLETED</status> </download-event> </notification> 3. The TER NETCONF Client triggers <rpc><software-install> informing the O-RU NETCONF Client about the desired slot for installation. This slot must have the attributes active = FALSE, running = FALSE, access = READ-WRITE. The O-RU NETCONF Server responds with <rpc-reply><software- install> with status STARTED. <rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="14"> <software-install xmlns="urn:o-ran:software-management:1.0"> <slot-name>"SLOT0"</slot-name> <file-names>"testpkg"</file-names> </software-install> </rpc> <rpc-reply xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message- id="14"> <status xmlns="urn:o-ran:software-management:1.0">STARTED</status> </rpc-reply> 4. The O-RU NETCONF Server examines the downloaded software. The files are error free by design in this test. The O-RU NETCONF Server installs the new software files to the desired slot. 5. The O-RU NETCONF Server sends <notification><install-event><status> to the TER NETCONF Client. Field <status> contains the value COMPLETED to indicate the successful installation of software to the desired slot. <notification xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:notification:1.0"> <eventTime> YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.FZ </eventTime> <install-event xmlns="urn:o-ran:software-management:1.0"> <slot-name>"SLOT0"</slot-name> <status>COMPLETED</status> </install-event> </notification> D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. Test step 5 completed with notification that indicates successful installation of the downloaded software. 2. Status of SW slot used for SW installation is set to VALID. Other parameters of software slot shall not be changed.

#### 3.1.6.2 O-RU Software Update (negative case)
A. Test Description and Applicability This scenario is MANDATORY for O-RU tests and OPTIONAL for O-DU tests. This scenario corresponds the following chapters in [3]:
- 8. Software Management
B. Test Entrance Criteria The minimum functions of the TER described in clause 2.1 that support validation of the M-Plane are operational, configured and connected to the O-RU. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions 1. The test procedure described in clause 3.1.2.1 and 3.1.4.1 is successfully completed. 2. A modified software package is available for test purposes (proper content of manifest.xml, but fake/invalid content of software files) 3. The O-RU provides at least one slot available for the software update procedure (status != INVALID, active = False, running = False, access = READ-WRITE) 4. A sFTP/FTPES server is available with an account dedicated for the software update procedure, using FTPES if the O-RU controller is using NETCONF/TLS to configure the O-RU. b. Procedure Based on how the software package is modified, the failure can be related to software-install or software- download, and is implementation dependent. Flow 1 is given for a failure related to software-download and Flow 2 is given for a failure related to software-install. i. Flow 1 1. The TER NETCONF Client triggers <rpc><software-download>. The O-RU NETCONF Server responds with <rpc-reply><software-download> <rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message- id="13"> <software-download xmlns="urn:o-ran:software-management:1.0"> <remote-file- path>sftp://oranuser@192.168.3.13:22/software.zip</remote-file-path> </software-download> </rpc> <rpc-reply xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message- id="13"> <status xmlns="urn:o-ran:software-management:1.0">STARTED</status> </rpc-reply> 2. The O-RU NETCONF Server determines that the software file is invalid and sends <notification><download-event><status> to the TER NETCONF Client The field <status> is correctly updated with AUTHENTICATION_ERROR or PROTOCOL_ERROR or FILE_NOT_FOUND or APPLICATION_ERROR or TIMEOUT. <notification xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:notification:1.0"> <eventTime> YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.FZ </eventTime> <download-event xmlns="urn:o-ran:software-management:1.0"> <slot-name>"SLOT0"</slot-name> <status> APPLICATION_ERROR </status> </download-event> </notification> ii. Flow 2 1. The TER NETCONF Client triggers <rpc><software-download>. The O-RU NETCONF Server responds with <rpc-reply><software-download> <rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message- id="13"> <software-download xmlns="urn:o-ran:software-management:1.0"> <remote-file- path>sftp://oranuser@192.168.3.13:22/software.zip</remote-file-path> </software-download> </rpc> <rpc-reply xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message- id="13"> <status xmlns="urn:o-ran:software-management:1.0">STARTED</status> </rpc-reply> 2. The O-RU NETCONF Server performs the software download procedure. When the download is complete, the O-RU NETCONF Server sends <notification><download-event> with status COMPLETED to the TER NETCONF Client <notification xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:notification:1.0"> <eventTime> YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.FZ </eventTime> <download-event xmlns="urn:o-ran:software-management:1.0"> <file-name>sftp://oranuser@192.168.3.13:22/software.zip</file- name> <status>COMPLETED</status> </download-event> </notification> 3. The TER NETCONF Client triggers <rpc><software-install> informing the O-RU NETCONF Server about desired slot the software shall be installed to. The O-RU NETCONF Server respond with <rpc-reply><software-install> with status STARTED. <rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="14"> <software-install xmlns="urn:o-ran:software-management:1.0"> <slot-name>"SLOT0"</slot-name> <file-names>"testpkg"</file-names> </software-install> </rpc> <rpc-reply xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message- id="14"> <status xmlns="urn:o-ran:software-management:1.0">STARTED</status> </rpc-reply> 4. The O-RU NETCONF Server determines that the software file is invalid and sends <notification><install-event><status> to the TER NETCONF Client. The Field <status> is correctly updated with one of the following statuses: FILE_ERROR or INTEGRITY_ERROR or APPLICATION_ERROR. <notification xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:notification:1.0"> <eventTime> YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.FZ </eventTime> <install-event xmlns="urn:o-ran:software-management:1.0"> <slot-name>"SLOT0"</slot-name> <status> FILE_ERROR </status> </install-event> </notification> D. Test Requirement (expected result) Flow 1: The test scenario reaches step 2. The O-RU NETCONF Server indicates failure with the Software Download procedure. Parameters of the Software Slot, with the exception of the status, shall not be changed. Flow 2: The test scenario reaches step 4. The O-RU NETCONF Server indicates failure with the Install procedure. The Status of the Software Slot used for software installation is set to its appropriate status. Parameters of the Software Slot, with the exception of the status, shall not be changed.

### 3.1.7 O-RU Software Activation

#### 3.1.7.1 Software Activation without Reset
A. Test Description and Applicability This scenario is MANDATORY for both O-RU and O-DU Tests. This test validates that the O-RU can successfully activate software in a specific slot on the O-RU. This scenario corresponds to the following clause in [3]:
- 8. Software Management
B. Test Entrance Criteria The minimum functions of the TER described in clause 2.1 that support validation of the M-Plane are operational, configured and connected to the O-RU. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions 1. The test procedure described in clause 3.1.6.1 is successfully completed. b. Procedure 1. The TER NETCONF Client triggers <rpc><software-activate> towards the O-RU NETCONF Server. The name of a slot containing a valid software installation to be activated is provided as a parameter in the RPC. <rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="15"> <software-activate xmlns="urn:o-ran:software-management:1.0"> <slot-name>"SLOT0"</slot-name> </software-activate> </rpc> 2. The O-RU NETCONF Server responds with <rpc-reply><software-activate><status>. The parameter "status" is set to STARTED. <rpc-reply xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message- id="15"> <status xmlns="urn:o-ran:software-management:1.0">STARTED</status> </rpc-reply> 3. The O-RU NETCONF Server performs a software activation procedure. When the procedure is completed, the O-RU NETCONF Server sends <notification><activation-event> with a status COMPLETED and the slot-name in the activation event corresponds to the slot-name used in the software-activate RPC to the TER NETCONF Client. <notification xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:notification:1.0"> <eventTime> YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.FZ </eventTime> <activation-event xmlns="urn:o-ran:software-management:1.0"> <slot-name>"SLOT0"</slot-name> <status>COMPLETED</status> </activation-event> </notification> D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. In step 3 of this test, the status of the software slot used for software activation is set to VALID and the parameter "active" is set to "True". The parameter "running" remains "False". 2. Status of the software slot containing the software still used by device remains VALID, the parameter "active" is set to False. The parameter "running" is True.
> NOTE: O-RU reset is required to complete SW activation sequence - meaning: to force device to start
with the software just activated.

#### 3.1.7.2 Supplemental Reset after Software Activation
A. Test Description and Applicability This scenario is MANDATORY for O-RU tests and OPTIONAL for O-DU tests. This test validates that the O-RU can successfully start up with activated software. This scenario corresponds to the following clause in [3]:
- 8. Software Management
B. Test Entrance Criteria The minimum functions of the TER described in clause 2.1 that support validation of the M-Plane are operational, configured and connected to the O-RU. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions 1. The test procedure described in clause 3.1.6.1 is successfully completed. b. Procedure 1. The TER NETCONF Client sends <rpc><reset></rpc> to the O-RU NETCONF Server. <reset xmlns=”urn:o-ran:operations:1.0”> </reset> 2. The O-RU NETCONF Server responds with rpc-reply. <rpc-reply xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message- id="2"><ok/></rpc-reply> 3. The O-RU restarts with a new software version running matching the version activated in test 3.1.7.1. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. In step 3 of this test, the status of the software slot used for software activation remains VALID (it is unchanged) and the parameter "active" remains "True". The parameter "running" is set to True. 2. Status of the software slot containing the previous version of software used by device remains VALID, the parameter "active" remains False. The parameter "running" is set to False.

### 3.1.8 Access Control

#### 3.1.8.1 Sudo on Hybrid M-plane Architecture (positive case)
A. Test Description and Applicability This scenario is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY for an O-RU and O-DU supporting the Hybrid M-plane architecture model. This test validates that user management model can be used to add users to the O-RU This scenario corresponds to the following clauses in [3]:
- 6.4 NETCONF Connection Establishment
- 6.5 NETCONF Access Control
B. Test Entrance Criteria The minimum functions of the TER described in clause 2.1 that support validation of the M-Plane are operational, configured and connected to the O-RU. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions 1. The test procedure described in clause 3.1.1.1 (IPv4/SSH) or 3.1.1.3 (IPv6/SSH) or 3.1.1.5 (IPv4/TLS) or

#### 3.1.1.7 (IPv6/TLS) is successfully completed.
b. Procedure 1. The TER NETCONF Client establishes a connection with the O-RU NETCONF Server 2. The TER NETCONF Client configures sudo user account and password using o-ran-user.mgmt.yang. Additionally, if O-RU NETCONF Server supports the multi-operator Shared O-RU feature the TER NETCONF Client configures the carrier user account and password. The ‘nms’, fm-pm’, swm’, smo’ and ‘hybrid-odu’ privilege groups can optionally be configured.
> NOTE 1: For new user accounts which are <account-type>CERTIFICATE</account-type>, <password>
leaf shall not be present.
> NOTE 2: In this message, the user account with "carrier" privileges may be associated with Shared
Resource Operator IDs (sro-id), as specified in clause 19 of [3]. <rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="16"> <edit-config xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0"> <target> <running/> </target> <default-operation>merge</default-operation> <config> <users xmlns="urn:o-ran:user-mgmt:1.0"> <user> <name>MPLANEUSER0</name> <account-type>PASSWORD</account-type> <password>12345678</password> <enabled>true</enabled> </user> <user> <name>MPLANEUSER1</name> <account-type>PASSWORD</account-type> <password>12345678</password> <enabled>true</enabled> <sro-id>22110</sro-id> </user> </users> </config> </edit-config> </rpc> <rpc-reply xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message- id="16"> <ok/> </rpc-reply> 3. The TER NETCONF Client configures user account to group mappings using ietf-netconf-acm.yang for the user accounts created in Step 2. The ‘nms’, fm-pm’, swm’, smo’ and ‘hybrid-odu’ privilege groups can be mapped if created in step 2. <rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="15"> <edit-config xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0"> <target> <running/> </target> <default-operation>merge</default-operation> <config> <nacm xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-netconf-acm"> <groups> <group> <name>sudo</name> <user-name>MPLANEUSER0</user-name> </group> <groups> <group> <name>carrier</name> <user-name>MPLANEUSER1</user-name> </group> <groups> </nacm> </config> </edit-config> </rpc> 4. The O-RU NETCONF Server confirms the operations for the above transactions 5. The TER NETCONF Client retrieves a list of users from O-RU NETCONF Server. The newly created user accounts and mappings are validated. The password leaf shall not be present. <rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="17"> <get xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0"> <filter xmlns:o-ran-usermgmt="urn:o-ran:user-mgmt:1.0" type="xpath" select="/o-ran-usermgmt:*//."/> <with-defaults xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-netconf- with-defaults">report-all</with-defaults> </get> </rpc> <rpc-reply xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message- id="17"> <data xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0"> <users xmlns="urn:o-ran:user-mgmt:1.0"> <user> <name>oranuser</name> <account-type>PASSWORD</account-type> <enabled>true</enabled> </user> <user> <name>xranuser</name> <account-type>PASSWORD</account-type> <enabled>true</enabled> </user> <user> <name>MPLANEUSER0</name> <account-type>PASSWORD</account-type> <enabled>true</enabled> </user> <user> <name>MPLANEUSER1</name> <account-type>PASSWORD</account-type> <enabled>true</enabled> <sro-id>22110</sro-id> </user> </users> </data> </rpc-reply> D. Test Requirement (expected result) Step 5 is correctly validated.

#### 3.1.8.2 Access Control Sudo (negative case)
A. Test Description and Applicability This scenario is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY for an O-RU supporting the Hybrid M-plane architecture model and OPTIONAL for O-DU tests.
> NOTE 1: This test is only valid for “Password authentication” because “account-type CERTIFICATE” does not set
<password>. This test validates that the O-RU correctly implements NETCONF Access Control security aspects. The scenario corresponds to the following clauses in [3]:
- 6.4 NETCONF Connection Establishment
- 6.5 NETCONF Access Control
B. Test Entrance Criteria The minimum functions of the TER described in clause 2.1 that support validation of the M-Plane are operational, configured and connected to the O-RU. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions 1. The test procedure described in clause 3.1.8.1 is successfully completed. 2. If the O-RU NETCONF Server supports, the multi-operator Shared O-RU feature, the TER NETCONF Client configures the carrier user account and password. The ‘nms’, fm-pm’, swm’, smo’ and ‘hybrid-odu’ privilege groups can optionally be configured. b. Procedure 1. The TER NETCONF Client establishes a connection using a user account with sudo privileges. 2. The TER NETCONF Client gets the password leaves from the user-mgmt.yang model. <rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="17"> <get xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0"> <filter xmlns:o-ran-usermgmt="urn:o-ran:user-mgmt:1.0" type="xpath" select="/o-ran-usermgmt:*//."/> <with-defaults xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-netconf- with-defaults">report-all</with-defaults> </get> </rpc> 3. The O-RU NETCONF Server replies by silently omitting data nodes and their descendants to which the client does not have read access from the <rpc-reply> message.
> NOTE: In this message, the user account with "carrier" privileges may be associated with Shared
Resource Operator IDs (sro-id), as specified in clause 19 of [3]. <rpc-reply xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message- id="17"> <data xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0"> <users xmlns="urn:o-ran:user-mgmt:1.0"> <user> <name>MPLANEUSER0</name> <account-type>PASSWORD</account-type> <enabled>true</enabled> </user> <user> <name>MPLANEUSER1</name> <account-type>PASSWORD</account-type> <enabled>true</enabled> <sro-id>22110</sro-id> </user> </users> </data> </rpc-reply> D. Test Requirement (expected result) Test step 3 is performed successfully.

#### 3.1.8.3 Access Control NMS (negative case)
A. Test Description and Applicability This scenario is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY for an O-RU supporting the Hybrid M-plane architecture model and OPTIONAL for O-DU tests. This test validates that the O-RU correctly implements NETCONF Access Control user privileges. The scenario corresponds to the following clauses in [3]:
- 6.5 NETCONF Access Control
B. Test Entrance Criteria The minimum functions of the TER described in clause 2.1 that support validation of the M-Plane are operational, configured and connected to the O-RU. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions 1. The test procedure described in clause 3.1.8.1 is successfully completed. 2. A nms privileged user account is provisioned on the O-RU NETCONF Server. b. Procedure 1. The TER NETCONF Client establishes a connection. Instead of using the default SUDO account, the NETCONF Client uses a user account with NMS privileges. 2. The TER NETCONF Client attempts to configure a new user/password account on the NETCONF Server using the user-mgmt.yang model.
> NOTE: For new user accounts which are <account-type>CERTIFICATE</account-type>, <password>
leaf shall not be configured. <rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="16"> <edit-config xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0"> <target> <running/> </target> <default-operation>merge</default-operation> <config> <users xmlns="urn:o-ran:user-mgmt:1.0"> <user> <name>MPLANEUSER</name> <account-type>PASSWORD</account-type> <password>12345678</password> <enabled>true</enabled> </user> </config> </edit-config> </rpc> 3. The NETCONF Server replies rejecting the protocol operation with an "access-denied" error. <rpc-reply xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message- id="16"> <rpc-error> <error-type>protocol</error-type> <error-tag>access-denied</error-tag> <error-severity>error</error-severity> </rpc-error> </rpc-reply> D. Test Requirement (expected result) Test step 3 is performed successfully.

#### 3.1.8.4 Access Control FM-PM (negative case)
A. Test Description and Applicability This scenario is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY for an O-RU supporting the Hybrid M-plane architecture model and OPTIONAL for O-DU tests. This test validates that the O-RU correctly implements NETCONF Access Control user privileges. The scenario corresponds to the following clause in [3]:
- 6.5 NETCONF Access Control
B. Test Entrance Criteria The minimum functions of the TER described in clause 2.1 that support validation of the M-Plane are operational, configured and connected to the O-RU. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions 1. The test procedure described in clause 3.1.8.1 is successfully completed. 2. A fm-pm privileged user account is provisioned on the O-RU NETCONF Server. b. Procedure 1. The TER NETCONF Client establishes a connection. Instead of using the default SUDO account, the NETCONF Client uses a user account with fm-pm privileges. 2. The TER NETCONF Client attempts to configure a new processing-element on the NETCONF Server using the o-ran-processing-element yang model <rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="19"> <edit-config xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0"> <target> <running/> </target> <default-operation>merge</default-operation> <config><processing-elements xmlns="urn:o-ran:processing- element:1.0"> <transport-session-type>ETH-INTERFACE</transport-session-type> <ru-elements> <name>HD-BDE_00000600_processing-element01</name> <transport-flow> <interface-name>HD-BDE_00000600_uc-vlan0</interface-name> <eth-flow> <ru-mac-address>00:03:A2:0A:00:00</ru-mac-address> <vlan-id>2</vlan-id> <o-du-mac-address>38:AF:D7:D5:CE:9B</o-du-mac-address> </eth-flow> </transport-flow> </ru-elements> </processing-elements> </config> </edit-config> </rpc> 3. The NETCONF Server replies rejecting the protocol operation with an "access-denied" error. <rpc-reply xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message- id="19"> <rpc-error> <error-type>protocol</error-type> <error-tag>access-denied</error-tag> <error-severity>error</error-severity> </rpc-error> </rpc-reply> D. Test Requirement (expected result) Test step 3 is performed successfully.

#### 3.1.8.5 Access Control SWM (negative case)
A. Test Description and Applicability This scenario is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY for an O-RU supporting the Hybrid M-plane architecture model and OPTIONAL for O-DU tests. This test validates that the O-RU correctly implements NETCONF Access Control user privileges. The scenario corresponds to the following clause in [3]:
- 6.5 NETCONF Access Control
B. Test Entrance Criteria The minimum functions of the TER described in clause 2.1 that support validation of the M-Plane are operational, configured and connected to the O-RU. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions 1. The test procedure described in clause 3.1.8.1 is successfully completed. 2. A swm privileged user account is provisioned on the O-RU NETCONF Server. b. Procedure 1. The TER NETCONF Client establishes a connection. Instead of using the default SUDO account, the NETCONF Client uses a user account with swm privileges. 2. The TER NETCONF Client attempts to get the configuration of the o-ran-fm.yang model <rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="11"> <get xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0"> <filter xmlns:o-ran-fm="urn:o-ran:fm:1.0" type="xpath" select="/o- ran-fm:*//."/> <with-defaults xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-netconf- with-defaults">report-all</with-defaults> </get> </rpc> 3. The NETCONF Server replies by silently ignoring the read access initiated by the <get> request done in step 2. No error or warning will be reported.
> NOTE: a reply rejecting the protocol operation with an "access-denied" error only occurs for a write
request. <rpc-reply xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message- id="0"><data xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0"/> </rpc-reply> D. Test Requirement (expected result) Test step 3 is performed successfully.

#### 3.1.8.6 Sudo on Hierarchical M-plane architecture (positive case)
A. Test Description and Applicability This scenario is MANDATORY for an O-RU and O-DU supporting the Hierarchical M-plane architecture model.
> NOTE: To configure a user account with "carrier" privileges, the O-RU should support the multi-operator shared O-
RU feature, as specified in clause 19 of [3]. This test validates that user management model can be used to add users to the O-RU This scenario corresponds to the following clause in [3]:
- 6.4 NETCONF Connection Establishment
- 6.5 NETCONF Access Control
- 6.8 Closing a NETCONF Session
B. Test Entrance Criteria The minimum functions of the TER described in clause 2.1 that support validation of the M-Plane are operational, configured and connected to the O-RU. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions 1. The test procedure described in clause 3.1.1.1 (IPv4/SSH) or 3.1.1.3 (IPv6/SSH) or 3.1.1.5 (IPv4/TLS) or

#### 3.1.1.7 (IPv6/TLS) is successfully completed.
b. Procedure 1. The TER NETCONF Client establishes connection and creates one or two user accounts depending on the DUT Shared-O-RU capabilities:
- If DUT does not support the multi-operator Shared-O-RU feature, TER NETCONF Client
creates one user account, “oranuser2”, using o-ran-user-mgmt.yang. In addition, the messages below related to oranuser3 shall be deleted.
- If the DUT supports the multi-operator Shared-O-RU feature, TER NETCONF Client creates
two user accounts, “oranuser2” and “oranuser3”, using o-ran-user-mgmt.yang.
> NOTE 1: For new user accounts which are <account-type>CERTIFICATE</account-type>, <password>
leaf shall not be present.
> NOTE 2: In this message, the user account with "carrier" privileges may be associated with Shared
Resource Operator IDs (sro-id), as specified in clause 19 of [3]. <rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message- id="35"> <edit-config xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0"> <target><running/></target> <default-operation>merge</default-operation> <config> <users xmlns="urn:o-ran:user-mgmt:1.0"> <user> <name>oranuser2</name> <account-type>PASSWORD</account-type> <password>o-ran-password</password> <enabled>true</enabled> </user> <user> <name>oranuser3</name> <account-type>PASSWORD</account-type> <password>12345678</password> <enabled>true</enabled> <sro-id>22110</sro-id> </user> </users> </config> </edit-config> </rpc> 2. The O-RU NETCONF Server confirms the operation <rpc-reply message-id="35" xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0"> <ok/> </rpc-reply> 3. The TER NETCONF Client configures user account to group mappings for the one or two new accounts using ietf-netconf-acm.yang respectively one with “sudo” and one with “carrier” privilege. <rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="15"> <edit-config xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0"> <target> <running/> </target> <default-operation>merge</default-operation> <config> <nacm xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-netconf-acm"> <groups> <group> <name>sudo</name> <user-name> oranuser2</user-name> </group> <group> <name>carrier</name> <user-name>oranuser3</user-name> </group> </groups> </nacm> </config> </edit-config> </rpc> 4. The O-RU NETCONF Server confirms the operations for the above transactions. 5. The TER NETCONF Client retrieves a list of users from O-RU NETCONF Server. The account for the user created in step 1 is validated in this list. The password leaf shall not be present <rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message- id="36"> <get xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0"> <filter xmlns:o-ran-usermgmt="urn:o-ran:user-mgmt:1.0" type="xpath" select="/o-ran-usermgmt:*//."/> <with-defaults xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-netconf- with-defaults">report-all</with-defaults> </get> </rpc> <rpc-reply xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message- id="36"> <data xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0"> <users xmlns="urn:o-ran:user-mgmt:1.0"> <user> <name>oranuser</name> <account-type>PASSWORD</account-type> <enabled>true</enabled> </user> <user> <name>oranuser2</name> <account-type>PASSWORD</account-type> <enabled>true</enabled> </user> <user> <name>oranuser3</name> <account-type>PASSWORD</account-type> <enabled>true</enabled> <sro-id>22110</sro-id> </user> </users> </data> </rpc-reply> 6. The TER NETCONF Client closes the NETCONF session. <rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message- id="37"> <close-session xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0"/> </rpc> 7. The O-RU NETCONF Server establishes a TCP connection and performs the Call Home procedure to the TER NETCONF Client using the same IP and VLAN. 8. The TER NETCONF Client establishes a SSH session / TLS connection towards the NETCONF Server. The user account created in step 1 is used (oranuser2). 9. The O-RU NETCONF Server accepts the SSH session / TLS connection establishment from TER NETCONF Client 10. The TER NETCONF Client and O-RU NETCONF Server exchange capabilities through the NETCONF <hello> messages. 11. If the DUT supports the multi-operator Shared-O-RU features, repeat from step 7 to step 10, using oranuser3. D. Test Requirement (expected result) Each step above is correctly validated.

#### 3.1.8.7 Access Control SMO (negative case)
A. Test Description and Applicability This scenario is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY for an O-RU supporting the Hybrid M-plane architecture model and OPTIONAL for O-DU tests. This test validates that the O-RU correctly implements NETCONF Access Control user privileges. The scenario corresponds to the following clause in [3]:
- 6.5 NETCONF Access Control
B. Test Entrance Criteria The minimum functions of the TER described in clause 2.1 that support validation of the M-Plane are operational, configured and connected to the O-RU. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions 1. The test procedure described in clause 3.1.8.1 is successfully completed. 2. A smo privileged user account is provisioned on the O-RU NETCONF Server. b. Procedure 1. The TER NETCONF Client establishes a connection. Instead of using the default SUDO account, the NETCONF Client uses a user account with smo privileges. 2. The TER NETCONF Client attempts to send rpc supervision-watchdog-reset towards the NETCONF Server using the o-ran-supervision yang model. <rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="20"> <supervision-watchdog-reset xmlns="urn:o-ran:supervision:1.0"> <supervision-notification-interval>60</supervision- notification-interval> <guard-timer-overhead>10</guard-timer-overhead> </supervision-watchdog-reset> </rpc> 3. The NETCONF Server replies rejecting the protocol operation with an "access-denied" error. <rpc-reply xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message- id="20"> <rpc-error> <error-type>protocol</error-type> <error-tag>access-denied</error-tag> <error-severity>error</error-severity> </rpc-error> </rpc-reply> D. Test Requirement (expected result) Test step 3 is performed successfully.

#### 3.1.8.8 Access Control Hybrid-ODU (negative case)
A. Test Description and Applicability This scenario is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY for an O-RU supporting the Hybrid M-plane architecture model and OPTIONAL for O-DU tests. This test validates that the O-RU correctly implements NETCONF Access Control user privileges. The scenario corresponds to the following clause in [3]:
- 6.5 NETCONF Access Control
B. Test Entrance Criteria The minimum functions of the TER described in clause 2.1 that support validation of the M-Plane are operational, configured and connected to the O-RU. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions 1. The test procedure described in clause 3.1.8.1 is successfully completed. 2. A hybrid-odu privileged user account is provisioned on the O-RU NETCONF Server. b. Procedure 1. The TER NETCONF Client establishes a connection. Instead of using the default SUDO account, the NETCONF Client uses a user account with hybrid-odu privileges. 2. The TER NETCONF Client attempts to send rpc retrieve-file-list towards the NETCONF Server using the o-ran-file-management yang model <rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="20"> <retrieve-file-list xmlns="urn:o-ran:file-management:1.0"> <input> <logical-path>O-RAN/log/</logical-path> </input> </rpc> 3. The NETCONF Server replies rejecting the protocol operation with an "access-denied" error. <rpc-reply xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message- id="20"> <rpc-error> <error-type>protocol</error-type> <error-tag>access-denied</error-tag> <error-severity>error</error-severity> </rpc-error> </rpc-reply> D. Test Requirement (expected result) Test step 3 is performed successfully.

#### 3.1.8.9 Access Control Carrier (negative case)
The test description, applicability, entrance criteria, methodology and requirements are the same as in clause 3.1.8.8, Access Control Hybrid-ODU (negative case). This test is applicable to the O-RU supporting the multi-operator shared O-RU feature, as specified in clause 19 of [3]. The only difference from clause 3.1.8.8 is this test provisions the carrier privileged user account instead of hybrid-odu user account on the O-RU NETCONF Server. This scenario is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY for an O-RU supporting the Hybrid M-plane architecture model and OPTIONAL for O-DU tests.

#### 3.1.8.10 Access Control change own password
A. Test Description and Applicability This scenario is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY for an O-RU and O-DU supporting the Hybrid M-plane architecture model.
> NOTE: This test is only valid for “Password authentication” because “account-type CERTIFICATE” does not set
<password>. This test validates that the user management model can change password for ‘carrier’, ‘swm’, ‘nms’, ‘fm-pm’ access groups. This scenario corresponds to the following clauses in [3]:
- 6.4 NETCONF Connection Establishment
- 6.5 NETCONF Access Control
B. Test Entrance Criteria The minimum functions of the TER described in clause 2.1 that support validation of the M-Plane are operational, configured and connected to the O-RU. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions 1. The test procedure described in clause 3.1.8.1 is successfully completed. b. Procedure 1. The TER NETCONF Client establishes connection and changes a password for carrier user using o-ran- usermgmt <rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="20"> <chg-password xmlns="urn:o-ran-usermgmt:1.0"> <currentPassword>12345678</currentPassword> <newPassword>23456789</newPassword> <newPasswordConfirm>23456789</newPasswordConfirm> </chg-password> </rpc> 2. The O-RU NETCONF Server confirms the operation <rpc-reply message-id="20" xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0"> <status>Successful</status> <status-message>Current user's password is changed successfully</status-message> </rpc-reply> 3. The TER NETCONF Client closes the NETCONF session. <rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="37"> <close-session xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0"/> </rpc> 4. The O-RU NETCONF Server establishes a TCP connection and performs the Call Home procedure to the TER NETCONF Client using the same IP and VLAN. 5. The TER NETCONF Client establishes a SSH session towards the NETCONF Server. The user password which is configured in step 1 is used. 6. The O-RU NETCONF Server accepts the SSH session establishment from TER NETCONF Client 7. The TER NETCONF Client and O-RU NETCONF Server exchange capabilities through the NETCONF <hello> messages. 8. Repeat this test from step1 with ‘swm’, ‘nms’, ‘fm-pm’ access groups instead of using ‘carrier’ access group. D. Test Requirement (expected result) Each step above is correctly validated.

### 3.1.9 External Input / Output Ports

#### 3.1.9.1 External Input Port State Detection
A. Test Description and Applicability This scenario is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The test is applicable only for O-RUs supporting external input ports. This test validates proper handling of logical input ports. This scenario corresponds to the following clause in [3]:
- 14.5.2 External input
B. Test Entrance Criteria
- The minimum functions of the TER described in clause 2.1 that support validation of the M-Plane are
operational, configured and connected to the O-RU.
- Supplementary circuitry is required to force a change of logical state of input lines belonging to an input port.
It is assumed that logical input ports are internally pulled to logical high state by O-RU, therefore supplementary circuitry shall only allow to change the input port to a logical low. To determine a physical input line for this test, one shall read the customer documentation applicable for the O-RU being tested. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions 1. The test procedure described in clause 3.1.4.1 is successfully completed. b. Procedure 1. The External Input Ports are left in their normal, default state. For the purposes of this test, these input ports are assumed to be a logical high. 2. The TER NETCONF Client retrieves state of chosen input port by issuing <rpc><get><filter type="subtree"><external-io xml...><input><port-in></port-in></input></external- io></filter></get></rpc> <rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="7"> <get xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0"> <filter type="subtree"> <external-io xmlns:o-ran-io="urn:o-ran:external-io:1.0"> <input> <port-in/> </input> </external-io> </filter> <with-defaults xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf- netconf-with-defaults">report-all</with-defaults> </get> </rpc> 3. The O-RU NETCONF Server provides the state of every line-in belonging to the input port under test to the TER NETCONF Client. For all input lines, the state is TRUE, indicating open circuit (no shortage to ground is detected by input lines) <rpc-reply xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message- id="7"> <data xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0"> <external-io xmlns="urn:o-ran:external-io:1.0"> <input> <name>PORT0</name> <port-in>0</port-in> <line-in>TRUE</line-in> </input> </external-io> </data> </rpc-reply> 4. The TER supplementary circuitry randomly shorts one or more input lines to the ground. Changes shall occur with a periodicity greater than 30 seconds. 5. For every change the O-RU NETCONF Server sends notification <external-input-change> to the TER NETCONF Client. The notification contains updated states of input lines belonging to the port under test. A state FALSE indicates shortage to ground detected by particular input line. notification xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:notification:1.0"> <eventTime> YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.FZ </eventTime> <external-input-change xmlns="urn:o-ran:external-io:1.0" > <current-input-notification > <external-input > <name > PORT0</name> <line-in >FALSE</line-in> </external-input> </current-input-notification> </external-input-change> </notification> 6. This test scenario is looped to step 4 for a total of 10 iterations including the first pass through steps 1 to 4. D. Test Requirement (expected result) Step 5 is correctly validated for each of the total of 10 iterations of the test.

#### 3.1.9.2 External Output Port State Control
A. Test Description and Applicability This scenario is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The test is applicable only for O-RUs supporting external output ports. This test validates proper handling of logical output ports. This scenario corresponds to the following clause in [3]:
- 14.5.3 External output
B. Test Entrance Criteria
- The minimum functions of the TER described in clause 2.1 that support validation of the M-Plane are
operational, configured and connected to the O-RU.
- Supplementary circuitry is required to measure voltage of an output port signal. To determine the mapping of
physical output lines to ports, one shall read customer documentation for the O-RU being tested. The definition of voltage levels served by output lines of output ports and the maximum allowed current sourced by single an output line shall be validated against the TER capabilities. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions 1. The test procedure described in clause 3.1.4.1 is successfully completed. b. Procedure 1. The TER NETCONF Client issues :<rpc><edit-config> to the O-RU NETCONF Server requesting all output lines belonging to output port to be set to FALSE. <rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message- id="56"> <edit-config xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0"> <target><running/></target> <default-operation>merge</default-operation> <config> <external-io xmlns="urn:o-ran:external-io:1.0"> <output-setting> <name>External-Output-0</name> <line-out>false</line-out> </output-setting> </external-io> </config> </edit-config> </rpc> 2. The O-RU NETCONF Server sets logical LOW state to output lines corresponding to step 1 and responds to TER NETCONF Client with <rpc-reply> <rpc-reply message-id="56" xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0"> <ok/> </rpc-reply> 3. The TER supplementary circuitry shows that all output lines of the target output port are set to logical LOW state. 4. The TER NETCONF Client issues :<rpc><edit-config> towards NETCONF Server requesting a random change of states of output lines belonging to target output port. Changes shall occur with a periodicity greater than 30 seconds. <rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message- id="58"> <edit-config xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0"> <target><running/></target> <default-operation>merge</default-operation> <config> <external-io xmlns="urn:o-ran:external-io:1.0"> <output-setting> <name>External-Output-0</name> <line-out>true</line-out> </output-setting> </external-io> </config> </edit-config> </rpc> 5. The O-RU NETCONF Server sets the requested states of output lines for the states defined by step 4 and responds to NETCONF Client with <rpc-reply>. The TER supplementary circuitry validates the change. <rpc-reply message-id="58" xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0"> <ok/> </rpc-reply> 6. This test scenario is looped to step 5 for a total of 10 iterations including the first pass through steps 1 to 4. D. Test Requirement (expected result) Step 5 is correctly validated for each of the total of 10 iterations of the test.

### 3.1.10 O-RU Configurability

#### 3.1.10.1 O-RU Configurability Test (positive case)
A. Test Description and Applicability This scenario is MANDATORY for both O-RU and O-DU Tests. This test validates eAxC configuration and validation. The test scenario is intentionally limited in scope to be applicable to any O-RU hardware design. This scenario corresponds to the following clauses in [3]:
- 9 Configuration Management
- 15.2 User plane message routing
B. Test Entrance Criteria The minimum functions of the TER described in clause 2.1 that support validation of the M-Plane is operational, configured and connected to the O-RU. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions 1. The test procedure described in clause 3.1.4.1 is successfully completed. b. Procedure 1. The TER NETCONF Client assigns unique eAxC_IDs to low-level-rx-endpoints. The same set of eAxC_IDs is also assigned to low-level-tx-endpoints. The TER NETCONF Client uses <rpc><edit- config>.
> NOTE: The following is an example and is expected to vary for different equipment or configurations.
<rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="23"> <edit-config xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0"> <target> <running/> </target> <default-operation>merge</default-operation> <config> <user-plane-configuration xmlns="urn:o-ran:uplane- conf:1.0"> <low-level-tx-endpoints> <name>Low-Level-Tx-Endpoint-0</name> <compression> <compression-type>STATIC</compression-type> <iq-bitwidth>14</iq-bitwidth> <exponent>4</exponent> </compression> <frame-structure>193</frame-structure> <cp-type>NORMAL</cp-type> <cp-length>88</cp-length> <cp-length-other>72</cp-length-other> <offset-to-absolute-frequency-center>-3276</offset-to-absolute- frequency-center> <number-of-prb-per-scs> <scs>KHZ_30</scs> <number-of-prb>273</number-of-prb> </number-of-prb-per-scs> <e-axcid> <o-du-port-bitmask>49152</o-du-port-bitmask> <band-sector-bitmask>16128</band-sector-bitmask> <ccid-bitmask>240</ccid-bitmask> <ru-port-bitmask>15</ru-port-bitmask> <eaxc-id>0</eaxc-id> </e-axcid> …. <name>Low-Level-Rx-Endpoint-0</name> <compression> <compression-type>STATIC</compression-type> <bitwidth>14</bitwidth> <exponent>4</exponent> </compression> <frame-structure>193</frame-structure> <cp-type>NORMAL</cp-type> <cp-length>88</cp-length> <cp-length-other>72</cp-length-other> <offset-to-absolute-frequency-center>-3276</offset-to-absolute- frequency-center> <number-of-prb-per-scs> <scs>KHZ_30</scs> <number-of-prb>273</number-of-prb> </number-of-prb-per-scs> <ul-fft-sampling-offsets> <scs>KHZ_30</scs> <ul-fft-sampling-offset>21</ul-fft-sampling-offset> </ul-fft-sampling-offsets> <e-axcid> <o-du-port-bitmask>49152</o-du-port-bitmask> <band-sector-bitmask>16128</band-sector-bitmask> <ccid-bitmask>240</ccid-bitmask> <ru-port-bitmask>15</ru-port-bitmask> <eaxc-id>0</eaxc-id> </e-axcid> <non-time-managed-delay-enabled>false</non-time-managed-delay- enabled> </low-level-rx-endpoints> …. </user-plane-configuration> </config> </edit-config> </rpc> 2. The O-RU NETCONF Sever responds with a <rpc-reply> message indicating successful completion of requested procedure <rpc-reply xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message- id="23"> <ok/> </rpc-reply> 3. Netconf config change notification is generated from O-RU. This step is conditional mandatory, the condition is to support the capability which allows O-RU Controllers to configure the O-RU to provide notifications of modifications to its YANG datastore. <notification xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:notification:1.0"> <eventTime> YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.FZ </eventTime> <netconf-config-change xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf- netconf-notifications"> <changed-by> <session-id>2</session-id> <username>oranuser</username> </changed-by> <datastore>running</datastore> <edit> <target xmlns:o-ran-uplane-conf="urn:o-ran:uplane-conf:1.0">/o- ran-uplane-conf:user-plane-configuration</target> <operation>merge</operation> </edit> </netconf-config-change> </notification> D. Test Requirement (expected result) Test step 1, 2 and 3 are performed successfully if the capability that allows O-RU Controllers to configure the O- RU to provide notifications of modifications to its YANG datastore. Test step 1 and 2 are performed successfully if the O-RU doesn’t provide notifications of modifications to its YANG datastore.

#### 3.1.10.2 O-RU Configurability Test (negative case)
A. Test Description and Applicability This scenario is MANDATORY for O-RU tests and OPTIONAL for O-DU tests. The test scenario is intentionally limited to scope that shall be testable without a need to modify test scenario according to O-RU's hardware design. This test verifies that the O-RU NETCONF Server supports configurability with validation. This scenario corresponds to the following clauses in [3]:
- 9 Configuration Management
- 15.2 User plane message routing
B. Test Entrance Criteria The minimum functions of the TER described in clause 2.1 that support validation of the M-Plane are operational, configured and connected to the O-RU. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions 1. The test procedure described in clause 3.1.4.1 is successfully completed. b. Procedure 1. The TER NETCONF Client assigns eAxC_IDs to low-level-rx-endpoints. The same eAxC_ID is assigned to more than one low-level-tx-endpoint or/and more than one low-level-rx-endpoint. The NETCONF Client uses <rpc><edit-config>. 2. The O-RU NETCONF Sever responds with the <rpc-reply> message indicating rejection of the requested procedure. D. Test Requirement (expected result) Test step 2 is performed successfully.

### 3.1.11 ALD Communications

#### 3.1.11.1 ALD Communications Test
A. Test Description and Applicability This scenario is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY for an O-RU equipped with a RET port (regardless of whether this is a raw RS-485 port or OOK modem coupled internally to antenna connector(s)). This scenario shall be performed against each ALD port exposed by the O-RU. This test is OPTIONAL for O-DU tests. The purpose of the test is to validate the ALD communications protocol and operation of the O-RU. The following functions are validated in this test.
- Proper transmission of the content if RPC <ald-communication> towards desired ALD port
- Proper calculation of FCS
- Proper application of basic transparency to content to be transmitted
- Proper addition of start / stop flags
- Proper reception of payload injected to ALD port
- Proper removal of start / stop flags
- Proper application of basic transparency to content received from ALD port
- Proper validation of FCS in data received from ALD port.
This scenario corresponds to the following clause in [3]:
- 14.4 Operational aspects of Antenna Line Devices
B. Test Entrance Criteria
- The minimum functions of the TER described in clause 2.1 that support validation of the M-Plane are
operational, configured and connected to the O-RU.
- It is assumed, that O-RU being a subject of this conformance test scenario is proven to be compliant to the
following specifications: 1. ISO/IEC 13239:2002 “High-level data link control (HDLC) procedures” 2. ETSI TS 125.460 “UTRAN Iuant Interface: General aspects and principles” 3. ETSI TS 125.461 ”UTRAN Iuant Interface: Layer 1” 4. ETSI TS 125.462 ”UTRAN Iuant Interface: Signalling Transport” 5. ETSI TS 125.466 “UTRAN Iuant Interface: Application Part”
- The O-RU uses a 9.6 kbps data rate on its ALD port(s) for transmission and reception, regardless of connector
supported by particular ALD port. C. Test Methodology As O-RU does not verify correctness of the payload that is exchanged between NETCONF Client and ALD (except FCS for traffic coming from ALD) - any payload can be used in test vector, under condition, that test vectors are compliant to referenced above set of specification documents (e.g. length is not smaller than minimum size of real message). RS-485 sniffer / injector is needed for this test. Such a device shall be connected either to O-RU’s RS-485 port or to RS-485 port of Smart BiasT connected to O-RU with coaxial cable (depending on O-RU construction) Unless not specified otherwise – RS-485 sniffer / injector shall be connected to ALD port corresponding to record “port-id” used in RPC <ald-communication>. In case O-RU exposes ALD port as antenna port, test environment should utilize Smart BiasT for conversion between OOK modulation at antenna port and RS-485 signalling that RS-485 sniffer / injector can handle. DC voltage for Smart BiasT device shall be provided by O-RU through antenna feeder. If not specified otherwise, for test purposes RS-485 sniffer / injector is connected to ALD port which will be addressed in RPC <ald-communication> within the scenario. As this test is intended to verify O-RU functions and there will be no real ALD connected – compliance to the required HDLC message structure is required, whilst the AISG payload can be artificial (unless otherwise specified in test case). The O-RU does not verify if messaging is correct, hence, for test simplicity and ease of test result verification, artificial test vectors can be used. a. Initial Conditions a. The test procedure described in clause 3.1.4.1 is successfully completed. b. Procedure i. Test Case 1: Transmission towards ALD (positive scenario) Scope: CRC calculation, transparency algorithm application, start / stop flag addition, datagram transmission using desired ALD port 1) NETCONF Client sends regular RPC <ald-communication> message containing bytes 0x7D and 0x7E in “ald-req-msg” record. 2) O-RU calculates FCS, adds it to datagram provided in record “ald-req-msg”, applies basic transparency (replaces every occurrence of byte “0x7E” with two bytes “0x7D 0x5E”, respectively, replace byte “0x7D” with two bytes “0x7D 0x5D”) and add start/stop flags 0x7E. 3) O-RU sends payload calculated in step 2 through ALD port mentioned in record “port-id” of RPC. 4) RS-485 sniffer / injector receives payload sent by O-RU. Received payload is subject of analysis for scenario success / failure classification ii. Test Case 1 Test Requirement (expected result) Content received by RS-485 listener / injector is compared with content of RPC <ald-communication>. a) payload shall be sent by desired ALD port of O-RU b) FCS shall be properly calculated c) basic transparency shall be properly applied d) start / stop flags shall be added to payload that has been received by RS-485 sniffer / injector Test scenario is considered as completed with success in case all mentioned above conditions are satisfied. Any deviation means test scenario is failed. iii. Test Case 2: Reception from ALD (positive case) Scope: datagram reception, start / stop flag detection and removal, transparency algorithm applications, CRC verification
> NOTE: Test case 2 shall be performed just after Test case 1 so that content injected by RS-485 sniffer /
injector is considered by O-RU as ALD’s response to message sent towards ALD in Test case 1. Timing between Test case 1 and Test case 2 shall follow 3GPP specifications mentioned above. 1) RS485 sniffer / injector sends properly formatted (start / stop flags, FCS and min / max payload size) message containing strings “0x7D 0x5E” and “0x7D 0x5D” towards O-RU’s ALD port used in Test case 1. 2) O-RU receives the content. 3) O-RU removes start / stop flags, performs basic transparency (replaces “0x7D 0x5E” with “0x7E” and “0x7D 0x5D” with “0x7D”), makes sure if FCS is correct according to content of datagram. 4) O-RU sends “ald-resp-msg” towards NETCONF Client. In the response parameter “status” contains value “ACCEPTED”. iv. Test Case 2 Requirement (expected result) Content received by NETCONF Client is compared with content injected by RS-485 sniffer / injector. a) record “ald-port” shall indicate proper O-RU’s ALD port as source of the payload b) basic transparency is properly applied c) counter of received octets is properly incremented d) counters of frames with wrong FCS (CRC) and frames without stop flags are not incremented Test scenario is considered as completed with success in case all mentioned above conditions are satisfied. Any deviation means test scenario is failed. v. Test Case 3: Reception from ALD (negative case – wrong FCS) Scope: datagram reception, start / stop flag detection and removal, transparency algorithm application, CRC verification
> NOTE: Test case 3 shall be performed just after Test case 1 so that content injected by RS-485 sniffer /
injector is considered by O-RU as ALD’s response to message sent towards ALD in Test case 1. Timing between Test case 1 and Test case 3 shall follow 3GPP specifications mentioned above. 1) RS-485 sniffer / injector sends message containing wrong FCS towards O-RU’s ALD port used in Test case 1. 2) O-RU receives the content. 3) O-RU removes start / stop flags, performs basic transparency (replaces “0x7D 0x5E” with “0x7E” and “0x7D 0x5D” with “0x7D”) and detects, that FCS is incorrect according to content of received datagram. 4) O-RU sends “ald-resp-msg” towards NETCONF Client. In the response parameter “status” contains value “ACCEPTED”. vi. Test Case 3 Requirement (expected result) Content received by NETCONF Client is compared with content injected by RS-485 sniffer / injector. a) record “ald-port” shall indicate proper O-RU’s ALD port as source of the payload b) record “ald-resp-msg” is empty c) counter of frames without stop flags is not incremented d) counter of received octet and counter of frames with wrong FCS (CRC) are incremented Test scenario is considered as completed with success in case all mentioned above conditions are satisfied. Any deviation means test scenario is failed. vii. Test Case 4: Reception from ALD (negative case – no stop flag) Scope: datagram reception, start / stop flag detection
> NOTE: Test case 4 shall be performed just after Test case 1 so that content injected by RS-485 sniffer /
injector is considered by O-RU as ALD’s response to message sent towards ALD in Test case 1. Timing between Test case 1 and Test case 4 shall follow 3GPP specifications mentioned above. 1) RS-485 sniffer / injector sends message not terminated by stop flag “0x7E” towards O-RU’s ALD port used in Test case 1. 2) O-RU receives the content. 3) O-RU reaches the end of reception window without receiving stop flag that would terminate the datagram. 4) O-RU sends “ald-resp-msg” towards NETCONF Client. In the response parameter “status” contains value “ACCEPTED”. viii. Test Case 4 Requirement (expected result) Content received by NETCONF Client is compared with content injected by RS-485 sniffer / injector. a) record “ald-port” shall indicate proper O-RU’s ALD port as source of the payload b) record “ald-resp-msg” is empty c) counter of frames with wrong FCS (CRC) is not incremented d) counter of received octets and counter of frames without stop flags are incremented Test scenario is considered as completed with success in case all mentioned above conditions are satisfied. Any deviation means test scenario is failed. ix. Test case 5: Transmission towards ALD (negative scenario – wrong ALD port) Scope: CRC calculation, transparency algorithm application, start / stop flag addition, datagram transmission using desired ALD port (ports are not used by the same HDLC Primary Device) Scenario is applicable only in case O-RU supports more than one ALD port and under condition that ALD ports do not share single modem. IMPORTANT: In this scenario RS-485 sniffer / injector shall be connected to ALD port different from than the one indicated in record “port-id” of RPC <ald-communication>. 1) NETCONF Client sends regular RPC <ald-communication> message. 2) O-RU performs the content processing and sends the content towards ALD port that corresponds to content of record “port-id” of RPC 3) RS-485 sniffer / injector does not receive payload sent by O-RU. x. Test Requirement (expected result) Test scenario is considered as completed with success in case RS-485 sniffer / injector does not receive payload in step 3. Any deviation is considered as failed test case. xi. Test case 6: Transmission towards ALD (negative scenario – non-existing ALD port) Scope: datagram reception 1) NETCONF Client sends regular RPC <ald-communication> message. Parameter <port-id> used in RPC does not point to existing ALD port. 2) O-RU sends <rpc-error> to NETCONF Client. In the response parameter “error-tag” contains value “data-missing”. 3) NETCONF Client receives the <rpc-error> message as described above. xii. Test Requirement (expected result) Test scenario is considered as completed with success in case step 3) is reached.

### 3.1.12 Log Management

#### 3.1.12.1 Troubleshooting Test
A. Test Description and Applicability This scenario is MANDATORY for both O-RU and O-DU Tests. This test validates the capability of the O-RU to upload troubleshooting logs including alarm information. This scenario corresponds to the following clause in [3]:
- 14.2.2 Troubleshooting Log Management
B. Test Entrance Criteria The minimum functions of the TER described in clause 2.1 that support validation of the M-Plane are operational, configured and connected to the O-RU. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions 1. The test procedure described in clause 3.1.4.1 is successfully completed. b. Procedure 1. The TER NETCONF Client sends <rpc><start-troubleshooting-logs> to the O-RU NETCONF Server. The O-RU NETCONF Server responds with <rpc-reply>< troubleshooting-status-grouping >. <rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message- id="56"> <start-troubleshooting-logs xmlns="urn:o- ran:troubleshooting:1.0"/> </rpc> <rpc-reply message-id="56" xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0"> <status xmlns="urn:o-ran:troubleshooting:1.0">SUCCESS</status> </rpc-reply> 2. The O-RU NETCONF Server starts generating one or more file(s) containing troubleshooting logs. When the generation of the log file(s) are completed, the O-RU NETCONF Server sends <notification><troubleshooting-log-generated> with a list of one or more log file names to the TER NETCONF Client.
> NOTE: It is assumed that the generated log file(s) contains troubleshooting logs related to alarm 17
measured in clause 3.1.5.2 or a vendor specific alarm, but the content and format are not specified. <notification xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:notification:1.0"> <eventTime>YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.FZ</eventTime> <troubleshooting-log-generated xmlns="urn:o- ran:troubleshooting:1.0"> <log-file-name>o-ran/log/Troubleshootinglog.gz</log-file-name> </troubleshooting-log-generated> </notification> 3. The TER NETCONF Client sends <rpc><file-upload>log-file-name</file-upload></rpc> to the O-RU NETCONF Server to start uploading the log file(s). The O-RU NETCONF Server responds with <rpc- reply><file-upload> with status SUCCESS. <rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message- id="57"> <file-upload xmlns="urn:o-ran:file-management:1.0"> <local-logical-file-path>o-ran/log/Troubleshootinglog.gz</local- logical-file-path> <remote-file- path>sftp://oranuser@192.168.3.13:22/local/log</remote-file-path> <password> <password>1234</password> </password> </file-upload> </rpc> <rpc-reply message-id="57" xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0"> <status xmlns="urn:o-ran:file-management:1.0">SUCCESS</status> </rpc-reply> 4. The O-RU NETCONF Server uploads the log file(s) to NETCONF Client by sFTP/FTPES, using FTPES if the O-RU controller is using NETCONF/TLS to configure the O-RU. When file upload is completed, the O-RU NETCONF Server sends <notification><upload-notification> with status SUCCESS. <notification xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:notification:1.0"> <eventTime>YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.FZ</eventTime> <file-upload-notification xmlns="urn:o-ran:file-management:1.0"> <local-logical-file-path>o-ran/log/Troubleshootinglog.gz</local- logical-file-path> <remote-file-path>sftp://oranuser@192.168.3.13:22/local/log </remote-file-path> <status>SUCCESS</status> </file-upload-notification> </notification> D. Test Requirement (expected result) Test step 4 is performed successfully.
> NOTE: The O-RU vendor may check the contents of the uploaded log file in detail for the reported alarm 17, but as
noted, the content and format of troubleshooting logs are not defined.

#### 3.1.12.2 Trace Test
A. Test Description and Applicability This scenario is MANDATORY for both O-RU and O-DU Tests. This test validates the capability of the O-RU to upload trace logs. This scenario corresponds to the following clause in [3]:
- 14.3 Trace
B. Test Entrance Criteria The minimum functions of the TER described in clause 2.1 that support validation of the M-Plane are operational, configured and connected to the O-RU. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions 1. The test procedure described in clause 3.1.4.1 is successfully completed. b. Procedure 1. The TER NETCONF Client sends <rpc><start-trace-logs> to the O-RU NETCONF Server. The O-RU NETCONF Server responds with <rpc-reply> <start-trace-logs>. <rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message- id="57"> <start-trace-logs xmlns="urn:o-ran:trace:1.0"/> </rpc> <rpc-reply message-id=”57” xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0"> <status xmlns="urn:o-ran:trace:1.0">SUCCESS</status> </rpc-reply> 2. The O-RU NETCONF Server starts generating one or more file(s) containing trace logs. When the generation of the log file(s) are completed, the O-RU NETCONF Server sends <notification><trace-log- generated> and <is-notification-last> set as false with a list of one or more log file names to the TER NETCONF Client.
> NOTE: It is assumed that the generated log file(s) contains trace logs related to O-RU Vendor specific,
but the content and format are not specified. <notification xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:notification:1.0"> <eventTime>YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.FZ</eventTime> <trace-log-generated xmlns="urn:o-ran:trace:1.0"> <log-file-name>o-ran/log/Tracelog.gz</log-file-name> <is-notification-last>false</is-notification-last> </trace-log-generated> </notification> 3. The TER NETCONF Client sends <rpc><file-upload>log-file-name</file-upload></rpc> to the O-RU NETCONF Server to start uploading the log file(s). The O-RU NETCONF Server responds with <rpc- reply><file-upload> with status SUCCESS. <rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message- id="58"> <file-upload xmlns="urn:o-ran:file-management:1.0"> <local-logical-file-path>o-ran/log/TraceLog.gz</local- logical-file-path> <remote-file-path>sftp:// oranuser@192.168.3.13:22/local/log</remote-file-path> <password> <password>1234</password> </password> </file-upload> </rpc> <rpc-reply message-id=”58” xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0"> <status xmlns="urn:o-ran:file management:1.0">SUCCESS</status> </rpc-reply> 4. The O-RU NETCONF Server uploads the log file(s) to NETCONF Client by sFTP/FTPES, using FTPES if the O-RU controller is using NETCONF/TLS to configure the O-RU. When file upload is completed, the O-RU NETCONF Server sends <notification><upload-notification> with status SUCCESS. <notification xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:notification:1.0"> <eventTime>YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.FZ</eventTime> <file-upload-notification xmlns="urn:o-ran:file- management:1.0"> <local-logical-file-path>o-ran/log/Tracelog.gz</local- logical-file-path> <remote-file-path>sftp://oranuser@192.168.3.13:22/local/ log</remote-file-path> <status>SUCCESS</status> </file-upload-notification> </notification> 5. The TER NETCONF Client sends <rpc><stop-trace-logs> to the O-RU NETCONF Server. The O-RU NETCONF Server responds with <rpc-reply> <stop-trace-logs>. <rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message- id="59"> <stop-trace-logs xmlns="urn:o-ran:trace:1.0"/> </rpc> <rpc-reply message-id="59" xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0"> <status xmlns="urn:o-ran:trace:1.0">SUCCESS</status> </rpc-reply> 6. The TER NETCONF Client can wait for the notification from the O-RU NETCONF Server. The O-RU NETCONF Server sends <notification> and set <is-notification-last> to true. <notification xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:notification:1.0"> <eventTime> YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.FZ </eventTime> <trace-log-generated xmlns="urn:o-ran:trace:1.0"> <log-file-name>o-ran/log/Tracelog.gz</log-file-name> <is-notification-last>true</is-notification-last> </trace-log-generated> 7. The TER NETCONF Client sends <rpc><file-upload>log-file-name</file-upload></rpc> to the O-RU NETCONF Server to start uploading the remaining log file(s). The O-RU NETCONF Server responds with <rpc-reply><file-upload> with status SUCCESS. <rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message- id="58"> <file-upload xmlns="urn:o-ran:file-management:1.0"> <local-logical-file-path>o-ran/log/TraceLog.gz</local- logical-file-path> <remote-file-path>sftp:// oranuser@192.168.3.13:22/local/log</remote-file-path> <password> <password>1234</password> </password> </file-upload> </rpc> <rpc-reply message-id=”58” xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0"> <status xmlns="urn:o-ran:file management:1.0">SUCCESS</status> </rpc-reply> 8. The O-RU NETCONF Server uploads the remaining log file(s) to NETCONF Client by sFTP/FTPES, using FTPES if the O-RU controller is using NETCONF/TLS to configure the O-RU. When file upload is completed, the O-RU NETCONF Server sends <notification><upload-notification> with status SUCCESS. <notification xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:notification:1.0"> <eventTime>YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.FZ</eventTime> <file-upload-notification xmlns="urn:o-ran:file- management:1.0"> <local-logical-file-path>o-ran/log/Tracelog.gz</local- logical-file-path> <remote-file-path>sftp://oranuser@192.168.3.13:22/local/ log</remote-file-path> <status>SUCCESS</status> </file-upload-notification> </notification> D. Test Requirement (expected result) Test step 4 and 8 are performed successfully.
> NOTE: The O-RU vendor may check the contents of the uploaded log file in detail for the reported trace logs, but as
noted, the content and format of trace logs are not defined.

### 3.1.13 Connectivity Check

#### 3.1.13.1 Ethernet Connectivity Monitoring
A. Test Description and Applicability This scenario is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY if the O-RU or O-DU supports C-Plane and U-Plane connectivity over Ethernet. This test validates the proper operation of LBM on the O-RU. This scenario corresponds to the following clauses in [3]:
- 7.3 C/U Plane VLAN configuration
- 7.5 Definition of processing elements
- 7.6.1 C/U-Plane transport connectivity verification
B. Test Entrance Criteria 1. The minimum functions of the TER described in clause 2.1 that support validation of the M-Plane are operational, configured and connected to the O-RU. 2. Result validation of this test requires TER capabilities such as a network sniffer that allows for traffic analysis over ETH frames between O-RU and O-DU. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions The test procedure described in clause 3.1.4.1 is successfully completed. b. Procedure 1. The TER NETCONF Client configures the O-RU NETCONF Server with a vlan-id for the C-Plane and U-Plane interfaces. 2. The TER NETCONF Client configures a transport-flow in the O-RU processing element: a combination of VLAN identity, O-DU MAC address and O-RU MAC address. 3. The TER sends loopback message to the O-RU MAC address configured for the processing element. 4. The O-RU sends loopback responses to the O-DU MAC Address of the loopback message. D. Test Requirement (expected result) Packets are sent correctly in step 3 and 4, as validated via the TER.

#### 3.1.13.2 UDP Echo Test
A. Test Description and Applicability This scenario is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The test is applicable only if the O-RU or O-DU supports C- Plane and U-Plane sessions over IP. This test validates the proper operation UDP Echo on the O-RU for continuous verification of connectivity. This scenario corresponds to the following clauses in [3]:
- 7.4 O-RU C/U Plane IP Address Assignment
- 7.5 Definition of processing elements
- 7.6 O-DU Verification of C/U Plane Transport Connectivity
B. Test Entrance Criteria 1. The minimum functions of the TER described in clause 2.1 that support validation of the M-Plane are operational, configured and connected to the O-RU. 2. Result validation of this test requires TER capabilities such as a network sniffer that allows for traffic analysis over ETH frames between O-RU and O-DU. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions 1. The test procedure described in clause 3.1.4.1 is successfully completed. b. Procedure 1. The TER NETCONF Client configures IP information and udpip-flow in the O-RU processing element for the C-Plane and U-Plane communications. 2. The TER NETCONF Client configures the enable-udp-echo leaf = true in the udp-echo YANG model to be enabled operation of the UDP echo server in the O-RU. 3. The TER NETCONF Client sends a UDP datagram to UDP port number:7 of the O-RU NETCONF Server. 4. The O-RU NETCONF Server sends back the UDP datagram to the TER NETCONF Client. 5. The TER NETCONF Client configures the enable-udp-echo leaf = false in the udp-echo YANG model to be disabled operation of the UDP echo server in the O-RU. D. Test Requirement (expected result) Packets are sent correctly in step 3 and 4 as validated by the TER with sniffer capability.

### 3.1.14 Energy Savings

#### 3.1.14.1 Carrier Deactivation and Energy Saving Configuration
A. Test Description and Applicability This scenario is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY for O-RU and O-DU. This test validates carrier deactivation and energy saving configuration. The test scenario is intentionally limited in scope to be applicable to any O-RU hardware design that supports energy-saving. This scenario corresponds to the following clause in [3]:
- 15.3.2 Activation, deactivation and sleep
- 20.2 Carrier deactivation for energy saving
- 10.2 Measurement activation and de-activation
B. Test Entrance Criteria The minimum functions of the TER described in clause 2.1 that support validation of the M-Plane are operational, configured and connected to the O-RU. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions 1. The test procedure described in clause 3.1.10.1 is successfully completed so that O-RU is configured to receive, process and output the test signal defined in initial condition 4. 2. Leaf active is ACTIVE in the tx-array-carrier and rx-array-carrier elements for the carriers under test. 3. The TER NETCONF Client subscribes to notifications of the measurement-object power, with the measurement-interval of 60 sec. 4. CUSM Emulator generates proper C/U plane stimulus for 3GPP test waveform with 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in section 3GPP 38.141 -1 NR-FR1-TM1.1 and section 3.2.1.1.5 of this document. If the radio does not support the bandwidth and/or numerology defined here, it will be up to the test developer to modify these parameters in the test waveform to adapt to the O-RU capabilities. b. Procedure 1. The TER NETCONF Client retrieves subscribed notifications from the O-RU NETCONF Server on the power consumption performance measurement. 2. The TER measures the AC or DC power consumption of the O-RU using power meter. 3. The TER compares the difference between the reported power consumption by the O-RU NETCONF Server and the measured power consumption in step 2 to validate it is within acceptable range, e.g. ± 10%. 4. The TER NETCONF Client sets the value of the leaf active at tx-array-carrier element / rx-array-carrier element to INACTIVE. 5. The O-RU NETCONF Server responds with a <rpc-reply> message indicating successful completion of requested procedure. 6. The TER NETCONF Client waits for at least two continuous Notifications of INACTIVE from the O-RU NETCONF Server to ensure a full cycle of INACTIVE state for power measurements is past. 7. The TER performs the DC or AC power consumption measurement with the power meter. 8. The TER verifies the transmission from the O-RU is turned OFF using a signal analyser. 9. The TER compares the difference between the reported power consumption by the O-RU NETCONF Server and the measured in step 7 to validate it is within acceptable range, e.g. ± 10%. The power consumption should be smaller than the previous one measured in the step 2. 10. The TER NETCONF Client sets the value of the parameter energy-saving-enabled element to TRUE. 11. The O-RU NETCONF Server responds with a <rpc-reply> message indicating successful completion of requested procedure. 12. The power-state of o-ran-hardware is switched to SLEEPING, indicating the O-RU is in energy saving mode. Check O-RU power-state=SLEEPING. 13. The TER performs the DC or AC power consumption measurement with the power meter. 14. The TER NETCONF Client waits for at least one Notification of Power measurement from the NETCONF Server to ensure a full cycle of power-state=sleeping for power measurement is completed. 15. The TER compares the difference between the reported power consumption by the NETCONF Server and the measured power consumption in step 13 to validate it is within acceptable range, e.g. ± 10%. The power consumption measured by the power analyser is expected to be smaller than that measured in the Step 7. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The test steps above are performed successfully 2. All validation steps mentioned in step 9 and step 15 are within expected power ranges as per the vendor’s O-RU product specifications.

#### 3.1.14.2 Carrier Activation
A. Test Description and Applicability This scenario is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY for O-RU and O-DU. This test validates carrier activation from SLEEP state. The test scenario is intentionally limited in scope to be applicable to any O-RU hardware design that supports Energy Savings. This scenario corresponds to the following clause in [3]:
- 15.3.2 Activation, deactivation and sleep
- 20.2 Carrier deactivation for energy saving
- 10.2 Measurement activation and de-activation
B. Test Entrance Criteria The minimum functions of the TER described in section 2.1 that support validation of the M-Plane are operational, configured and connected to the O-RU. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions 1. The test procedure described in clause 3.1.10.1 is successfully completed so that O-RU is configured to receive, process and output the test signal defined in initial condition 5. 2. Leaf active is either INACTIVE or SLEEP in the tx-array-carrier and rx-array-carrier elements for the carriers under test. 3. Leaf state is either DISABLED (if leaf active is INACTIVE) or READY (if leaf active is SLEEP) in the tx- array-carrier and rx-array-carrier elements for the carriers under test. 4. The TER NETCONF Client subscribes to notifications of the measurement-object power, with the measurement-interval of 60 sec. 5. CUSM Emulator generates proper C/U plane stimulus for 3GPP test waveform with 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in clause ETSI TS 138.141 -1 NR-FR1-TM1.1 and clause 3.2.1.1.5 of this document. If the radio does not support the bandwidth and/or numerology defined here, it will be up to the test developer to modify these parameters in the test waveform to adapt to the O-RU capabilities. b. Procedure 1. The TER NETCONF Client retrieves subscribed notifications from the O-RU NETCONF Server on the power consumption performance measurement. 2. The TER measures the AC or DC power consumption of the O-RU using a power meter. 3. The TER compares the difference between the power consumption reported by the O-RU NETCONF Server and the power consumption measured in step 2, validating that it is within an acceptable range, e.g. ± 10%. 4. The TER NETCONF Client sets the value of the leaf active at tx-array-carrier element / rx-array-carrier element to ACTIVE. 5. The O-RU NETCONF Sever responds with a <rpc-reply> message indicating successful completion of requested procedure. 6. The TER NETCONF Client waits for at least two continuous Notifications of ACTIVE from the NETCONF Server to ensure a full cycle of ACTIVE state for power measurements is completed. 7. The TER performs the DC or AC power consumption measurement with the power meter. 8. The TER verifies transmission is present from the O-RU and the expected signal (defined in C.a.5) is measured successfully with a signal analyser. 9. The TER compares the difference between the DC or AC power consumption reported by the O-RU NETCONF Server and the DC or AC power consumption measured in step 7, validating that it is within an acceptable range, e.g. ± 10%. The power consumption should now be larger than the previous one measured in the step 2. 10. The TER records the time from execution of step 4 to the TER receiving the signal from the O-RU. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The test steps above are performed successfully. 2. All validation step mentioned in step 9 is within expected power ranges as per the vendor’s O-RU product specifications.

#### 3.1.14.3 Subscription and Reporting of Energy, Power and Environmental (EPE)
Statistics A. Test Description and Applicability This scenario is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY for both O-RU and O-DU Tests. This test validates the Energy, Power and Environmental (EPE) measurement activation/deactivation and collection of measurement results. This scenario corresponds to the following clause in [3]:
- 10.2 Measurement activation and de-activation
B. Test Entrance Criteria The minimum functions of the TER described in section 2.1 that support validation of the M-Plane are operational, configured and connected to the O-RU C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions 1. The test procedure described in clause 3.1.1.1 (IPv4/SSH) or 3.1.1.3 (IPv6/SSH) or 3.1.1.5 (IPv4/TLS) or

#### 3.1.1.7 (IPv6/TLS) is successfully completed.
b. Procedure 1. The TER NETCONF Client activates the Energy, Power and Environmental performance measurement via NETCONF <edit-config> to O-RU NETCONF Server with the following parameters and values: Parameters Value Measurement-group Epe-statistics Measurement-object POWER Report-info Average Object-unit O-RAN-RADIO Measurement-interval 60 sec Active True 2. The O-RU NETCONF Sever responds with a <rpc-reply> message indicating successful completion of requested procedure. 3. The TER NETCONF Client subscribes to measurement group epe-statistics and measurement-object POWER to collect the measurement result by sending NETCONF <create-subscription> to NETCONF server in the O-RU. The following is an example: <rpc xmlns:netconf="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="101"> <create-subscription xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:notification:1.0"> <filter netconf:type="subtree"> <measurement-result-statistics xmlns="urn:o-ran:performance-management:1.0"> <epe-statistics> <measurement-object>POWER</measurement-object> </epe-statistics> </measurement-result-statistics> </filter> </create-subscription> </rpc> 4. The O-RU NETCONF Server responds with <rpc-reply> message indicating successful completion of requested procedure. 5. The O-RU NETCONF Server sends NETCONF notification messages periodically to the client with configured measurement result. 6. TER waits for 5 minutes and then validates that notification messages are generated according to measurement-interval and notification-interval. 7. The TER NETCONF Client deactivates the Energy, Power and Environmental (EPE) performance measurement via NETCONF <edit-config> to O-RU NETCONF Server. 8. The O-RU NETCONF Server stops sending NETCONF notification messages to the client. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The test steps above are performed successfully 2. All validation steps above are within expected ranges or correctly match the expected outcome.

#### 3.1.14.4 M-Plane based TRX control
A. Test Description and Applicability This scenario is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY for O-RU and O-DU. The test must be executed if the O-RU supports M-plane based TRX control. This test validates M-plane based TRX control. The test scenario is intentionally limited in scope to be applicable to any O-RU hardware design that supports Energy Savings. This scenario corresponds to the following clause in [3]:
- 20.3.2 TRX control – M-Plane controlled
- 10.2 Measurement activation and de-activation
B. Test Entrance Criteria The minimum functions of the TER described in clause 2.1 that support validation of the M-Plane are operational, configured and connected to the O-RU C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions 1. The test procedure described in clause 3.1.10.1 is successfully completed so that O-RU is configured to receive, process and output the test signal defined in initial condition 5. 2. The O-RU NETCONF Server exposes the capability to support energy savings. 3. The antenna mask is set to enable all array-elements . 4. The TER NETCONF Client subscribes to notifications of the measurement-object power, with the measurement-interval of 60 sec. 5. CUSM Emulator generates proper C/U plane stimulus for 3GPP test waveform with 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in clause ETSI TS 138.141 -1 NR-FR1-TM1.1 and clause 3.2.1.1.5 of this document. If the radio does not support the bandwidth and/or numerology defined here, it will be up to the test developer to modify these parameters in the test waveform to adapt to the O-RU capabilities. b. Procedure 1. The TER NETCONF Client retrieves subscribed notifications from the O-RU NETCONF Server on the power consumption performance measurement. 2. The TER measures the AC or DC power consumption of the O-RU using power meter. 3. The TER compares the power difference between the reported power consumption by the O-RU NETCONF Server and the measured power consumption in step 2 and validates it is within acceptable range, e.g. ± 10%. 4. The TER NETCONF Client sets the value of antenna mask for the [tr]x-array. It is recommended to set at least half of the antenna mask off in order to have more differentiable power changes. For the case where the O-RU advertises mplane-supported-trx-control-masks list, RPC edit-config shall be used to configure a specific antenna mask value by specifying a given antenna-bitmask-index for the [tr]x- array using the YANG parameter [tr]x-array-antenna-mask-config. EXAMPLE-1: configuration of a given 32-bit tx antenna mask by specifying the antenna-index 1, which points to an antenna mask that has half ones and the other half zeros: <rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="101"> <edit-config xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0"> <target> <running/> </target> <config> <tx-array-antenna-mask-config> <array-name> tx-array-1 </array-name> <antenna-bitmask-index> 1 </antenna-bitmask-index> </tx-array-antenna-mask-config> </config> </edit-config> </rpc> For the case where the O-RU does not advertise mplane-supported-trx-control-masks list for a given [tr]x- array, the RPC edit-config shall be used to configure a specific antenna-bitmask value for the [tr]x-array using the YANG parameter [tr]x-array-antenna-mask-config. EXAMPLE-2: configuration of a 32-bit tx antenna mask is shown below: <rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="101"> <edit-config xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0"> <target> <running/> </target> <config> <tx-array-antenna-mask-config> <array-name>tx-array-1</array-name> <antenna-bitmask>11111111000000000000000011111111</antenna-bitmask > </tx-array-antenna-mask-config> </config> </edit-config> </rpc> 5. The O-RU NETCONF Server responds with a <rpc-reply> message indicating successful completion of requested procedure. For Example, <rpc-reply xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="101"> <ok/> </rpc-reply> 6. The TER NETCONF Client waits for mplane-trx-control-ant-mask-update notification. EXAMPLE-1: mplane-trx-control-ant-mask-update notification by specifying the antenna-index is shown below: <notification xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:notification:1.0"> <eventTime>YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.FZ</eventTime> <mplane-trx-control-ant-mask-update> <array-name>tx-array-1</array-name> <array-type>tx-array</array-type> <updated-antenna-mask-index>1</updated-antenna-mask-index> </mplane-trx-control-ant-mask-update> EXAMPLE-2: mplane-trx-control-ant-mask-update notification by specifying antenna mask is shown below: <notification xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:notification:1.0"> <eventTime>YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.FZ</eventTime> <mplane-trx-control-ant-mask-update> <array-name>tx-array-1</array-name> <array-type>tx-array</array-type> <updated-antenna-mask>11111111000000000000000011111111</updated-antenna-mask> </mplane-trx-control-ant-mask-update> </notification> 7. The TER performs the DC or AC power consumption measurement with the power meter. 8. The TER compares the difference between the reported power consumption by the O-RU NETCONF Server and the measured in step 7 to validate it is within acceptable range, e.g. ± 10%. The power consumption should be smaller than the previous one measured in the step 2. 9. The TER NETCONF Client resets the value of antenna mask for the [tr]x-array after 15 minutes. For the case where the O-RU advertises mplane-supported-trx-control-masks list, RPC edit-config shall be used to configure a specific antenna mask value by specifying a given antenna-bitmask-index for the [tr]x- array using the YANG parameter [tr]x-array-antenna-mask-config. EXAMPLE-1: configuration of a given 32-bit tx antenna mask by specifying the antenna-index 5 which points to all-ones antenna mask: <rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message- id="102"> <edit-config xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0"> <target> <running/> </target> <config> <tx-array-antenna-mask-config> <array-name>tx-array-1</array-name> <antenna-bitmask-index>5</antenna-bitmask-index> </tx-array-antenna-mask-config> </config> </edit-config> </rpc> For the case where the O-RU does not advertise mplane-supported-trx-control-masks list for a given [tr]x- array, the RPC edit-config shall be used to configure a specific antenna-bitmask value for the [tr]x-array using the YANG parameter [tr]x-array-antenna-mask-config. EXAMPLE-2: configuration of a 32-bit tx antenna mask is shown below: <rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="102"> <edit-config xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0"> <target> <running/> </target> <config> <tx-array-antenna-mask-config> <array-name>tx-array-1</array-name> <antenna-bitmask>11111111111111111111111111111111</antenna-bitmask > </tx-array-antenna-mask-config> </config> </edit-config> </rpc> Note : For resetting antenna mask 15 minutes is specified as an example, actual value may depend on O-RU implementation. 10. The O-RU NETCONF Server responds with a <rpc-reply> message indicating successful completion of requested procedure. For Example, <rpc-reply xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="102"> <ok/> </rpc-reply> 11. The TER NETCONF Client waits for mplane-trx-control-ant-mask-update notification. For Example, EXAMPLE-1: mplane-trx-control-ant-mask-update notification by specifying the antenna-index is shown below: <notification xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:notification:1.0"> <eventTime>YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.FZ</eventTime> <mplane-trx-control-ant-mask-update> <array-name>tx-array-1</array-name> <array-type>tx-array</array-type> <updated-antenna-mask-index>5</updated-antenna-mask-index> </mplane-trx-control-ant-mask-update> EXAMPLE-2: mplane-trx-control-ant-mask-update notification by specifying antenna mask is shown below: <notification xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:notification:1.0"> <eventTime>YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.FZ</eventTime> <mplane-trx-control-ant-mask-update> <array-name>tx-array-1</array-name> <array-type>tx-array</array-type> <updated-antenna-mask>11111111111111111111111111111111</updated-antenna-mask> </mplane-trx-control-ant-mask-update> </notification> 12. The TER performs the DC or AC power consumption measurement with the power meter. 13. The TER verifies the expected signal (defined in C.a.5) is measured successfully with a signal analyser. 14. The TER compares the DC or AC power difference between the reported power consumption by the O- RU NETCONF Server and the measured DC or AC power consumption in step 12 to validate it is within acceptable range, e.g. ± 10%. The power consumption should now be larger than the previous one measured in the step 7. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. Test steps above are performed successfully. 2. All validation steps mentioned in step 8 and step 14 are within expected power ranges as per the vendor’s O- RU product specifications.

#### 3.1.14.5 Deep-hibernate
A. Test Description and Applicability This scenario is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY for O-RU and O-DU. The test shall be executed if the O-RU supports deep-hibernate. This test validates deep-hibernate. The test scenario is intentionally limited in scope to be applicable to any O-RU hardware design that supports energy savings. This scenario corresponds to the following clause in [3]:
- 20.5 Deep-hibernate
B. Test Entrance Criteria The minimum functions of the TER described in clause 2.1 that support validation of the M-Plane are operational, configured and connected to the O-RU C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions 1. The test procedure described in clause 3.1.10.1 is successfully completed so that O-RU is configured to receive, process and output the test signal defined in initial condition 4. 2. The O-RU NETCONF Server exposes the capability to support energy savings including deep-hibernate. 3. The TER NETCONF Client subscribes to notifications of the measurement-object power, with the measurement-interval of 60 sec. 4. CUSM Emulator generates proper C/U plane stimulus for 3GPP test waveform with 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in clause ETSI TS 138.141 -1 NR-FR1-TM1.1 and clause 3.2.1.1.5 of this document. If the radio does not support the bandwidth and/or numerology defined here, it will be up to the test developer to modify these parameters in the test waveform to adapt to the O-RU capabilities. b. Procedure 1. The TER NETCONF Client retrieves subscribed notifications from the O-RU NETCONF Server on the power consumption performance measurement. 2. The TER measures the AC or DC power consumption of the O-RU using power meter. 3. The TER compares the power difference between the reported power consumption by the O-RU NETCONF Server and the measured power consumption in step 2 and validates it is within acceptable range, e.g. ± 10%. 4. The TER NETCONF Client sends deep-hibernate rpc command. For Example, <rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="105"> <edit-config xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0"> <target> <running/> </target> <config> <deep-hibernate> <hibernate-time>15</hibernate-time> </deep-hibernate> </config> </edit-config> </rpc>
> NOTE: hibernate-time is between min-hibernate-time-duration and max-hibernate-time-duration if
advertised by the O-RU. 5. The O-RU NETCONF Server responds with a <rpc-reply> message indicating successful completion of requested procedure. For Example, <rpc-reply xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="105"> <ok/> </rpc-reply> 6. The TER NETCONF Client waits for deep-hibernate-activated notification. For Example, <notification xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:notification:1.0"> <eventTime>YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.FZ</eventTime> <deep-hibernate-activated/> <hibernate-time>15</hibernate-time> <deep-hibernate-activated/> </notification> 7. The O-RU NETCONF Server starts deep-hibernate timer. 8. The TER NETCONF Client sends close-session rpc command. For Example, <rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="106"> <close-session xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0"/> </rpc> 9. The O-RU NETCONF Server enters deep-hibernate. 10. Half of hibernate time past, the TER performs the DC or AC power consumption measurement with the power meter. The power consumption should now be smaller than the previous one measured in the step 2. 11. The TER verifies the transmission from the O-RU is turned OFF using a signal analyser. 12. The O-RU NETCONF Server restarts after the expiry of hibernate-time. 13. After restart, the TER verifies restart-cause value is DEEP-HIBERNATE-RESTART. 14. After carrier activation, the TER NETCONF Client waits for at least two continuous Notifications of ACTIVE from the O-RU NETCONF Server to ensure a full cycle of ACTIVE state for power measurements is completed. 15. The TER performs the DC or AC power consumption measurement with the power meter. The power consumption should now be larger than the previous one measured in the step 10. 16. The TER verifies transmission is present from the O-RU and the expected signal (defined in C.a.4) is measured successfully with a signal analyser. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. Test steps above are performed successfully. 2. All validation steps mentioned in step 10 and step 15 are within expected power ranges as per the vendor’s O- RU product specifications.

#### 3.1.14.6 Data layer control
A. Test Description and Applicability This scenario is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY for O-RU and O-DU. The test shall be executed if the O-RU supports Data layer control. This test validates Data layer control. The test scenario is intentionally limited in scope to be applicable to any O-RU hardware design that supports Energy Savings. This scenario corresponds to the following clause in [3]:
- 20.3.3 Data layer control
- 10.2 Measurement activation and de-activation
B. Test Entrance Criteria The minimum functions of the TER described in clause 2.1 that support validation of the M-Plane are operational, configured and connected to the O-RU. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions 1. The test procedure described in clause 3.1.10.1 is successfully completed so that O-RU is configured to receive, process and output the test signal defined in initial condition 4. 2. The O-RU NETCONF Server exposes the capability to support energy savings including Data layer control. 3. The TER NETCONF Client subscribes to notifications of the measurement-object power, with the measurement-interval of 60 sec. 4. CUSM Emulator generates proper C/U plane stimulus for 3GPP test waveform with 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in clause ETSI TS 138.141 -1 NR-FR1-TM1.1 and clause 3.2.1.1.5 of this document. If the radio does not support the bandwidth and/or numerology defined here, it will be up to the test developer to modify these parameters in the test waveform to adapt to the O-RU capabilities. b. Procedure 1. The TER NETCONF Client retrieves subscribed notifications from the O-RU NETCONF Server on the power consumption performance measurement. 2. The TER measures the AC or DC power consumption of the O-RU using power meter. 3. The TER compares the power difference between the reported power consumption by the O-RU NETCONF Server and the measured power consumption in step 2 and validates it is within acceptable range, e.g. ± 10%. 4. The TER NETCONF Client turns off data layers by adding energy-sharing-group-id into energy-sharing- groups-disabled leaf-list parameter. For Example, <rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="103"> <edit-config xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0"> <target> <running/> </target> <config> <energy-sharing-groups-disabled>4</energy-sharing-groups- disabled> </config> </edit-config> </rpc> 5. The O-RU NETCONF Server responds with a <rpc-reply> message indicating successful completion of requested procedure. For Example, <rpc-reply xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="103"> <ok/> </rpc-reply> 6. The TER NETCONF Client waits for 10 seconds. 7. The TER performs the DC or AC power consumption measurement with the power meter. 8. The TER compares the difference between the reported power consumption by the O-RU NETCONF Server and the measured in step 7 to validate it is within acceptable range, e.g. ± 10%. The power consumption should be smaller than the previous one measured in the step 2. 9. The TER NETCONF Client turns on data layers by removing energy-sharing-group-id from energy- sharing-groups-disabled leaf-list parameter after 15 minutes. For Example, <rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="104"> <edit-config xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0"> <target> <running/> </target> <config> <energy-sharing-groups-disabled:operation="delete">4</energy- sharing-groups-disabled> </config> </edit-config> </rpc> 10. The O-RU NETCONF Server responds with a <rpc-reply> message indicating successful completion of requested procedure. For Example, <rpc-reply xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="104"> <ok/> </rpc-reply> 11. The TER NETCONF Client waits for data-layer-control-wakeup-notification. Example, <notification xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:notification:1.0"> <eventTime>YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.FZ</eventTime> <data-layer-control-wakeup-notification> <energy-sharing-group>4</energy-sharing-group> </data-layer-control-wakeup-notification> </notification> 12. The TER performs the DC or AC power consumption measurement with the power meter. 13. The TER verifies the expected signal (defined in C.a.4) is measured successfully with a signal analyser. 14. The TER compares the DC or AC power difference between the reported power consumption by the O- RU NETCONF Server and the measured DC or AC power consumption in step 12 to validate it is within acceptable range, e.g. ± 10%. The power consumption should now be larger than the previous one measured in the step 7. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. Test steps above are performed successfully. 2. All validation steps mentioned in step 8 and step 14 are within expected power ranges as per the vendor’s O- RU product specifications. 3.1a M-Plane Measurements for O-DU 3.1a.1 Transport and Handshake Test Scenarios This test case is no addressed in the current document. 3.1a.2 Subscription to Notifications 3.1a.2.1 Subscription to NETCONF Event Stream A. Test Description and Applicability This test is MANDATORY for O-DU. This test validates that the O-DU properly subscribes the default “NETCONF” event stream for all notifications, including alarm notifications. This scenario corresponds to the following clause in [3]:
- 9.1.7 Notification framework
B. Test Entrance Criteria The minimum functions of the TED described in clause 2.2 that support validation of the M-Plane are operational, configured and connected to the O-DU C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions 1. The tests for NETCONF call home, NETCONF connection establishment, and NETCONF capability discovery are successfully completed. The TED NETCONF Server has indicated its support for “Notifications” via the NETCONF Hello message. b. Procedure 1. The O-DU NETCONF Client triggers the subscription to the TED NETCONF Server to subscribe to the default “NETCONF” event stream for all notifications that the TED NETCONF Server can generate (including alarm notifications), using either of the following two forms of create-subscription RPC: <rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="0"> <create-subscription xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:notification:1.0"> <stream>NETCONF</stream> </create-subscription> </rpc> or <rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="0"> <create-subscription xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:notification:1.0"> </create-subscription> </rpc>
> NOTE 1: message-id = “0” in only an example in the above RPC
> NOTE 2: According to RFC 5277, <stream> is an optional parameter of create-subscription. If it is not
present, events in the default NETCONF stream will be sent. 2. The TED NETCONF Server responds with <rpc-reply xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message- id="0"> <ok/> </rpc-reply> to the O-DU NETCONF Client.
> NOTE: RFC 6241 is followed for NETCONF communication.
D. Test Requirement (expected result) DUT passes this test, if step 1 is performed after all initial conditions are met.
> NOTE: There is no specified timeframe within which the DUT is required to perform step 1 following the
fulfilment of all initial conditions. 3.1a.3 M-Plane Connection Supervision 3.1a.3.1 M-Plane connection supervision A. Test Description and Applicability This scenario is MANDATORY for an O-DU. This test validates that the O-DU handles the connection supervision process correctly. This scenario corresponds to clause 6.7, “Monitoring NETCONF connectivity”, in [3]. B. Test Entrance Criteria The minimum functions of the TED described in clause 2.2 are operational, configured, and connected to the O- DU. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions 1. The call home procedure and the test case notification subscription are successfully completed. b. Procedure 1. The TED NETCONF Server notification timer expires. 2. The TED NETCONF Server sends a supervision notification message to the O-DU NETCONF Client. 3. The O-DU NETCONF Client sends to the TED NETCONF Server with <rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="20"> <supervision-watchdog-reset xmlns="urn:o-ran:supervision:1.0"> <supervision-notification-interval>60</supervision-notification-interval> <guard-timer-overhead>10</guard-timer-overhead> </supervision-watchdog-reset> </rpc>
> NOTE: The values of parameters are examples of message-id, supervision-notification-interval and
guard-timer-overhead. 4. The TED NETCONF Server sends a reply to the O-DU NETCONF Client. <rpc-reply xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="20"> <next-update-at xmlns="urn:o-ran:supervision:1.0">YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.FZ </next-update-at> </rpc-reply>
> NOTE: The values of parameters are examples of message-id and next-update-at.
5. Steps 1 to 4 are looped for a total of 30 iterations including the first pass through steps 1 to 4.
> NOTE: RFC 6241 is followed for NETCONF communication.
D. Test Requirement (expected result) Test scenario step 5 is performed successfully in all iterations.

## 3.2 UC-Plane Measurements O-RU

### 3.2.1 UC-Plane Standard Test Definitions
The following clauses describe test scenarios for equipment implementing the U-Plane and C-Plane O-RAN option 7.2x protocols.

#### 3.2.1.1 UC-Plane Measurements, O-RU TEST SCENARIO
In these sets of tests, the Device Under Test (DUT) is the O-RU. This document describes conformance tests for 4 scenarios: 1. Conducted FDD tests for FR1 radios 2. Non-conducted (OTA) FDD tests for FR1 radios 3. Conducted TDD tests for FR1 radios 4. Non-conducted tests for TDD FR1 and FR2 radios The O-RU must only be tested for the scenarios that apply to the O-RU capabilities. The fact that there are 4 scenarios defined does not imply that every O-RU must be tested for all scenarios in order to be O-RAN compliant and consequently the O-RU does not have to support all the capabilities required to test all 4 scenarios (i.e. support of FR1, FR2, TDD, FDD, conducted and non-conducted). In other words, depending on whether the O-RU supports capabilities such as FDD, TDD, FR1 and or FR2, only the corresponding scenarios that match the O-RU capabilities will apply. For example, an O-RU that does not have or cannot provide access to antenna ports (or TAB connectors), supports TDD and operates at FR2 bands, the corresponding scenario that the O-RU will need to be tested to be O-RAN conformant is scenario #4 only. Another example, for an O-RU that supports FDD, operates at FR1 bands and has or can provide access to antenna ports (or TAB connectors), scenarios #1 or #2 can apply but only one of the two possible scenarios will be selected to test the O-RU for O-RAN conformance. For scenario #1 and #3 above the RF test setup is as described in ETSI TS 138.141-1[NR] and TS 136.141 [LTE]. For scenarios #2 and #4 the RF test setup is as described in TS 138.141-2. Note that O-RAN conformance testing is expected to be “off-line” and not to be run while an O-DU and/or O-RU is operating and serving actual users. The O- RU manufacturer must also make available the same declarations described in ETSI TS 138.141-1, TS 138.141-2 [NR] and TS 136.141 [LTE] Section 4.6. This will determine the radio’s support for multi-carrier operation (e.g. if multi- carrier operation is supported on different connectors) Since the purpose of this document is to test O-RAN Fronthaul conformance and not to duplicate 3GPP RF tests, only selected parts of TS 138.141-1, TS 138.141-2 [NR] and TS 136.141 [LTE] will be used for RF testing. These selected test features are only necessary to test whether the O-RU correctly interpreted and generated the O-RAN C-Plane and U-Plane messages correctly. Several testcases require a bandwidth that may not be supported by the O-RU. In such situation, the testcase should be executed by adjusting to a bandwidth that is supported by the O-RU and complies with the channel bandwidth listed in either TS 138.104 clause 5.3.2 for NR or TS 136.104 clause 5.6 for LTE. The adjustment of the bandwidth can be done by reducing the number of physical resource blocks or by selecting another FRC. The bandwidth adjustment may select the minimum bandwidth defined by 3GPP. The adjustment of the bandwidth does not require the execution of the same testcase again with a larger bandwidth. There will also be some additions to the test waveforms used in TS 138.141-1, TS 138.141-2 [NR] and TS 136.141 [LTE] to fully exercise the features of the O-RAN Fronthaul protocol. These selected parts and additions are summarized below:

##### 3.2.1.1.1 For scenario #1 (Conducted FDD tests for FR1 radios)
- For downlink tests for type 1-C radios (radios with antenna port connectors and passive antennas) the test
configuration described in TS 138.141-1 D.1.1 will be used. Only a single antenna port will be used unless the test explicitly requires more than one port and the radio supports more than one port. RF test equipment will be connected at the point described in TS 138.141-1 clause 4.2.1. Note that an antenna port is an electrical conducting port that is connected to an array element.
- For uplink tests for type 1-C radios (radios with antenna port connectors and passive antennas) the test
configuration described in TS 138.141-1 D.2.1 will be used. Only a single antenna port will be used unless the test explicitly requires more than one port and the radio supports more than one port. RF test equipment will be connected at the point described in TS 138.141-1 clause 4.2.1. Note that an antenna port is an electrical conducting port that is connected to an array element.
- For downlink tests for type 1-H radios (radios with TAB connectors and active antenna systems) the test
configuration described in TS 138.14138.141-1 D.3.1 will be used for conducted tests. Only a single TAB connector will be used unless the test explicitly requires more than one connector. RF test equipment will be connected at the point described in TS 138.141-1 clause 4.2.2. Note that a transceiver array boundary (TAB) connector is an electrical conducting port that is connected to an array element via a radio distribution network (RDN).
- For uplink tests for type 1-H radios (radios with TAB connectors and active antenna systems) the test
configuration described in TS 138.14138.141-1 D.4.1 will be used for conducted tests. Only a single TAB connector will be used unless the test explicitly requires more than one connector. RF test equipment will be connected at the point described in TS 138.141-1 clause 4.2.2. Note that a transceiver array boundary (TAB) connector is an electrical conducting port that is connected to an array element via a radio distribution network (RDN).
- The basic downlink test will start with the Test model described in NR-FR1-TM1.1 and E-TM1.1. Subsequent
tests will adapt this model to test additional features of the O-RAN interface (e.g. Modifying the payload data, blanking some symbols, etc.). Note this test model describes the IQ data contained in the O-RAN packets not the O-RAN specific parameters. This test model will also be augmented with the following O-RAN specific parameters: Includes “stock” eAxC values as configured via M-Plane:
- DU_Port_ID: two bits, nominal value 00b
- BandSector: nominal 6 bits, nominal value 000000b
- CC_ID: nominal 4 bits, nominal value 0000b (most tests invoke only one component carrier)
- RU_port_ID: 4 bits, nominal values 0000b through 0011b or to whatever max value needed for a
specific test
- If the radio manufacturer declares support for multi-carrier a different eAxC will be assigned for each carrier.
Note that most tests described in ETSI TS 138.141-1[NR] and TS 136.141 [LTE] require testing at the bottom, middle and top of the supported bands of the radio. This specification relaxes that requirement because the purpose is to test the fronthaul compliance and not the radio performance.
- Compression: Static 16-bit fixed point IQ bitwidth in both DL and UL
- Beamforming: no beamforming (beamId = 0x0000), assumed to mean boresight radiation (normal to the
antenna surface) at some undetermined beamwidth (recall that beam weight magnitudes must be equal to unity)
- Transport: L2 Ethernet, eCPRI with no fragmentation and no QOS
- Delay Parameters: The test will be executed with a direct fibre connection to the O-RU and the network delay
is considered negligible for the purpose of delay management. Therefore, T12_min = T12_max = 0 and T34_min = T34_max = 0. The radio will report its supported values for: o T2a_min/max_up o Ta3_min/max_up o T2a_min/max_cp_ul o Tcp_adv_dl These parameters will be used to calculate the delay windows needed for the delay management tests below. Note that T1a_min_up = T2a_min_up and T1a_max_up = T2a_max_up due to the fixed, zero network delay. Similarly, Ta4_min_up = Ta3_min_up and Ta4_max_up = Ta3_max_up. Similarly, T1a_min_cp_ul = T2a_min_cp_ul and T1a_max_cp_ul = T2a_max_cp_ul.
- Uplink tests will start with the basic 3GPP test signal for Fixed Reference Channels for receiver sensitivity and
in-channel selectivity as described in ETSI TS 138.141-1[NR] and TS 136.141 [LTE]. All O-RAN specific parameters will be the same as described above for downlink testing. As with downlink testing subsequent tests will build on this basic waveform modifying parameters as needed to exercise O-RAN specific features.
- Uplink tests will be conducted using power levels at least 30dB higher than the power levels used to test 3GPP
Receiver sensitivity described in ETSI TS 138.141-1 Table 7.2.5-1[NR] and TS 136.141 [LTE]. This is to ensure a clear signal is received by the O-RU so it can be accurately decoded and demodulated to ensure the correct data was received by the O-DU as was sent by the signal source. Again, the purpose of these tests is to ensure correct operation of the O-RAN fronthaul not to test receiver sensitivity.

##### 3.2.1.1.2 For scenario #2 (Non-conducted OTA FDD tests for FR1 radios)
- For downlink tests for type 1-H radios that elect to be tested over the air (OTA) rather than conducted, the test
configuration is described in TS 138.141-2 E.1.2 where the Test Antenna will be placed inside an OTA chamber and measurements are referenced to the radiated characteristics defined over the air (OTA) at the Radiated Interface Boundary (RIB) defined in TS 138.141-2 4.2-1. The RF analyser test equipment is connected to the Test Antenna and is located outside of the OTA chamber.
- For downlink test for 1-O or 2-O radios (radios with no physical antenna or TAB connectors and consequently
only over the air – OTA – measurements are possible) the test configuration is described in TS 138.141-2 E.1.2 where the Test Antenna will be placed inside an OTA chamber and measurements are referenced to the radiated characteristics defined over the air (OTA) at the Radiated Interface Boundary (RIB) defined in TS 138.141-2 4.2-2. The RF analyser test equipment is connected to the Test Antenna and is located outside of the OTA chamber.
- For uplink tests for type 1-H radios that elect to be tested over the air (OTA) rather than conducted, the test
configuration is described in TS 138.141-2 E.2.1 where the Test Antenna will be placed inside an OTA chamber and measurements are referenced to the radiated characteristics defined over the air (OTA) at the Radiated Interface Boundary (RIB) defined in TS 138.141-2 4.2-1. The RF generator test equipment is connected to the Test Antenna and is located outside of the OTA chamber.
- For uplink test for 1-O or 2-O radios (radios with no physical antenna or TAB connectors and consequently
only over the air (OTA) measurements are possible) the test configuration is described in TS 138.141-2 E.2.1 where the Test Antenna will be placed inside an OTA chamber and measurements are referenced to the radiated characteristics defined over the air (OTA) at the Radiated Interface Boundary (RIB) defined in TS 138.141-2 4.2-2. The RF generator test equipment is connected to the Test Antenna and is located outside of the OTA chamber.
- For downlink tests for LTE radios that elect to be tested over the air (OTA), the test configuration is described
in TS 138.141-2 E.1.2 where the Test Antenna will be placed inside an OTA chamber and measurements are referenced to the radiated characteristics defined over the air (OTA) at the Radiated Interface Boundary (RIB) defined in TS 138.141-2 4.2-1. The RF analyser test equipment is connected to the Test Antenna and is located out of the OTA chamber.
- For uplink tests for LTE radios that elect to be tested over the air (OTA), the test configuration is described in
TS 138.141-2 E.2.1 where the Test Antenna will be placed inside an OTA chamber and measurements are referenced to the radiated characteristics defined over the air (OTA) at the Radiated Interface Boundary (RIB) defined in TS 138.141-2 4.2-1. The RF generator test equipment is connected to the Test Antenna and is located out of the OTA chamber.
- Note that the chamber shown in TS 138.141-2 E1.2. and E.2.1. are generic and consequently any OTA
chamber could be used, i.e. far field, CATR, near field, reverberation, etc.
- Likewise, depending on the beamforming measurement technology the positioner in TS 138.141-2 E.1.2 and
E.2.1. may or may not be needed.
- Furthermore, depending on the beamforming method to be measured more than one test antenna with more
than one RF analyser and/or generator ports may also be needed.
- The basic downlink test will start with the Test model described in NR-FR1-TM1.1 and E-TM1.1 in TS
138.141-1 and 36.141 for NR FR1 and LTE radios respectively. Subsequent tests will adapt this model to test additional features of the O-RAN interface (e.g. Modifying the payload data, blanking some symbols, etc.). Note this test model describes the IQ data contained in the O-RAN packets not the O-RAN specific parameters. This test model will also be augmented with the following O-RAN specific parameters: Includes “stock” eAxC values as configured via M-Plane:
- DU_Port_ID: two bits, nominal value 00b
- BandSector: nominal 6 bits, nominal value 000000b
- CC_ID: nominal 4 bits, nominal value 0000b (most tests invoke only one component carrier)
- RU_port_ID: 4 bits, nominal values 0000b through 0011b or to whatever max value needed for a
specific test
- If the radio manufacturer declares support for multi-carrier a different eAxC will be assigned for each carrier.
Note that most tests described in ETSI TS 138.141-2[NR] and TS 136.141 [LTE] require testing at the bottom, middle and top of the supported bands of the radio. This specification relaxes that requirement because the purpose is to test the fronthaul compliance and not the radio performance.
- Compression: Static 16-bit fixed point IQ bitwidth in both DL and UL
- Beamforming: no beamforming (beamId = 0x0000), assumed to mean boresight radiation (normal to the
antenna surface) at some undetermined beamwidth (recall that beam weight magnitudes must be equal to unity)
- Transport: L2 Ethernet, eCPRI with no fragmentation and no QOS
- Delay Parameters: The test will be executed with a direct fibre connection to the O-RU and the network delay
is considered negligible for the purpose of delay management. Therefore, T12_min = T12_max = 0 and T34_min = T34_max = 0. The radio will report its supported values for: o T2a_min/max_up o Ta3_min/max_up o T2a_min/max_cp_ul o Tcp_adv_dl These parameters will be used to calculate the delay windows needed for the delay management tests below. Note that T1a_min_up = T2a_min_up and T1a_max_up = T2a_max_up due to the fixed, zero network delay. Similarly, Ta4_min_up = Ta3_min_up and Ta4_max_up = Ta3_max_up. Similarly, T1a_min_cp_ul = T2a_min_cp_ul and T1a_max_cp_ul = T2a_max_cp_ul.
- Uplink tests will start with the basic 3GPP test signal for Fixed Reference Channels for receiver sensitivity and
in-channel selectivity as described in ETSI TS 138.141-2[NR] and TS 136.141 [LTE]. All O-RAN specific parameters will be the same as described above for downlink testing. As with downlink testing subsequent tests will build on this basic waveform modifying parameters as needed to exercise O-RAN specific features.
- Uplink tests will be radiated using power levels at least 30dB higher than the reference sensitivity power levels
used to test 3GPP Receiver sensitivity described in ETSI TS 138.141-2 Table 7.3.5.2-1, Table 7.3.5.2-2 and is to ensure a clear signal is received by the O-RU so it can be accurately decoded and demodulated to ensure the correct data was received by the O-DU as was sent by the signal source. Again, the purpose of these tests is to ensure correct operation of the O-RAN fronthaul not to test receiver sensitivity.

##### 3.2.1.1.3 For scenario #3 (Conducted TDD Tests for FR1 Radios)
All provisions of clause 3.2.1.1.1 will apply to FR1 TDD tests however the default test waveform will be a TDD waveform as described in ETSI TS 138.141-1. It will be NR-FR1-TM1.1 (TDD) and G-FR1-A1-5 (SCS30k_51RB) in the uplink. If the O-RU does not support the UL bandwidth of 51 RB, another FRC test model can be selected. The TDD test model is derived based on the uplink/downlink configurations described in ETSI TS 138.141-1 Table 4.9.2.2.1 using information element TDD-UL-DL-ConfigCommon as defined in TS 138.331 for 30 kHz SCS as shown below: Field name referenceSubcarrierSpacing (kHz) 30 Periodicity (ms) for dl-UL-TransmissionPeriodicity 5 nrofDownlinkSlots 7 nrofDownlinkSymbols 6 nrofUplinkSlots 2 nrofUplinkSymbols 4 This waveform is shown below: As an alternative to the default test waveform shown in Figure 3.2.1.1-1, it is optional to flexibly use other test waveforms with any TDD configurations allowed by the information element TDD-UL-DL-ConfigCommon as defined in TS 138.331 for 30 kHz SCS. The tester should use the 3GPP prescribed waveform as the recommended waveform but has the option to use any TDD configuration in the IOT profiles defined in [25] with the above constraints. This test frame consists of a PDCCH in the first two symbols of every downlink slot consisting of 3 PRBs. All the remaining PRBs in the frame consist of Physical Downlink Shared Channel data. This configuration corresponds to stock data section A (clause 3.2.1.1.5 below) in all symbols that do not contain PDCCH channels. Individual tests may call out other stock data sections as needed. If the radio does not support the numerology described in clause 3.2.3.1 the stock test frames can be adapted for smaller numbers of PRBs and should still be used. Symbols number two and eleven contain DMRS signals which are not used to test O-RAN Front Haul capabilities but should be sent to help test equipment synchronize. In the standard test frame, all PDSCH data is set to zeros if not otherwise described in the testcase and PUSCH is set to PN23 sequences. For all tests in this document (except the most basic resource allocation test) the PN23 sequence will be used in both uplink and downlink to allow the test to determine whether test data was put in the correct PRBs and whether the test data was accurately transmitted (or received) by the O-RU under test.
- For tests for type 1-C and 1-H the test configuration described in TS 138.141-1 for TDD testing will be used. Only
a single antenna port will be used unless the test explicitly requires more than one port and the radio supports more than one port. RF test equipment will be connected at the point described in TS 138.141-1. Note that an antenna port is an electrical conducting port that is connected to an array element.
- The test will start with the Test model described above. Subsequent tests will adapt this model to test additional
features of the O-RAN interface (e.g. Modifying the payload data, blanking some symbols, etc.). Note this test model describes the IQ data contained in the O-RAN packets not the O-RAN specific parameters. This test model will also be augmented with the following O-RAN specific parameters: Includes “stock” eAxC values as configured via M-Plane:
- DU_Port_ID: two bits, nominal value 00b
- BandSector: nominal 6 bits, nominal value 000000b
- CC_ID: nominal 4 bits, nominal value 0000b (most tests invoke only one component carrier)
- RU_port_ID: 4 bits, nominal values 0000b through 0011b or to whatever max value needed for a specific test
- If the radio manufacturer declares support for multi-carrier a different eAxC will be assigned for each carrier. Note
that most tests described in ETSI TS 138.141-1[NR] and TS 136.141 [LTE] require testing at the bottom, middle and top of the supported bands of the radio. This specification relaxes that requirement because the purpose is to test the fronthaul compliance and not the radio performance.
- Compression: Static 16-bit fixed point IQ bitwidth in both DL and UL
- Beamforming: no beamforming (beamId = 0x0000), assumed to mean boresight radiation (normal to the antenna
surface) at some undetermined beamwidth (recall that beam weight magnitudes must be equal to unity)
- Transport: L2 Ethernet, eCPRI with no fragmentation and no QOS
- Delay Parameters: The test will be executed with a direct fibre connection to the O-RU and the network delay is
considered negligible for the purpose of delay management. Therefore, T12_min = T12_max = 0 and T34_min = T34_max = 0. The radio will report its supported values for: o T2a_min/max_up o Ta3_min/max_up o T2a_min/max_cp_ul o Tcp_adv_dl These parameters will be used to calculate the delay windows needed for the delay management tests below. Note that T1a_min_up = T2a_min_up and T1a_max_up = T2a_max_up due to the fixed, zero network delay. Similarly, Ta4_min_up = Ta3_min_up and Ta4_max_up = Ta3_max_up. Similarly, T1a_min_cp_ul = T2a_min_cp_ul and T1a_max_cp_ul = T2a_max_cp_ul.
- Uplink tests will start with the basic 3GPP test signal for Fixed Reference Channels for receiver sensitivity and in-
channel selectivity as described in ETSI TS 138.141-1[NR] and TS 136.141 [LTE] and described above. All O- RAN specific parameters will be the same as described above for downlink testing. As with downlink testing subsequent tests will build on this basic waveform modifying parameters as needed to exercise O-RAN specific features.
- Uplink tests will be conducted using power levels at least 30dB higher than the power levels used to test 3GPP
Receiver sensitivity described in ETSI TS 138.141-1 Table 7.2.5-1[NR] and TS 136.141 [LTE]. This is to ensure a clear signal is received by the O-RU so it can be accurately decoded and demodulated to ensure the correct data was received by the O-DU as was sent by the signal source. Again, the purpose of these tests is to ensure correct operation of the O-RAN fronthaul not to test receiver sensitivity.

##### 3.2.1.1.4 For Scenario #4 (Non-conducted OTA TDD Tests for FR1 and FR2 Radios)
All provisions of clause 3.2.1.1.2 with respect to OTA methodology will apply to this scenario, except applied to TDD FR1 (1-H, 1-O) and FR2 (2-O) radios. The default test waveform for FR1 will be a TDD waveform as described in Sec. 3.2.1.1.3. The default test waveform for FR2 will be a 100 MHz bandwidth TDD waveform based on NR-FR2- TM1.1 for the downlink, and G-FR2-A1-3 for 120 kHz subcarrier spacing with 66 RBs in the uplink. The TDD test model is derived based on the uplink/downlink configurations described in ETSI TS 138.141-2 Table 4.9.2.2-1 using information element TDD-UL-DL-ConfigCommon as defined in TS 138.331 as shown below: Field name Value referenceSubcarrierSpacing (kHz) 120 Periodicity (ms) for dl-UL- 1.25 TransmissionPeriodicity nrofDownlinkSlots 7 nrofDownlinkSymbols 6 nrofUplinkSlots 2 nrofUplinkSymbols 4 As an alternative to the default test waveform shown in Figure 3.2.1.1-2, it is optional to flexibly use other test waveforms with any TDD configurations allowed by the information element TDD-UL-DL-ConfigCommon as defined in TS 138.331. The tester should use the 3GPP prescribed waveform as the recommended waveform but has the option to use any TDD configuration in the IOT profiles defined in [25] with the above constraints. This test frame consists of a PDCCH in the first two symbols of every downlink slot consisting of 3 PRBs. All the remaining PRBs in the frame consist of Physical Downlink Shared Channel data. This configuration corresponds to stock data section A (clause 3.2.1.1.5 below) in all symbols that do not contain PDCCH channels. Individual tests may call out other stock data sections as needed. If the radio does not support the numerology described the stock test frames can be adapted for smaller numbers of PRBs and should still be used. Symbols number two and eleven contain DMRS signals which are not used to test O-RAN Front Haul capabilities but should be sent to help test equipment synchronize. In the standard test frame, all PDSCH data is set to zeros if not otherwise mentioned in the testcase and PUSCH is set to PN23 sequences. For all tests in this document (except the most basic resource allocation test) the PN23 sequence will be used in both uplink and downlink to allow the test to determine whether test data was put in the correct PRBs and whether the test data was accurately transmitted (or received) by the O-RU under test.
- For downlink tests for type 1-H radios that elect to be tested over the air (OTA) rather than conducted, the test
configuration is described in TS 138.141-2 E.1.2 where the Test Antenna will be placed inside an OTA chamber and measurements are referenced to the radiated characteristics defined over the air (OTA) at the Radiated Interface Boundary (RIB) defined in TS 138.141-2 4.2-1. The RF analyser test equipment is connected to the Test Antenna and is located outside of the OTA chamber.
- For downlink test for 1-O or 2-O radios (radios with no physical antenna or TAB connectors and consequently
only over the air – OTA – measurements are possible) the test configuration is described in TS 138.141-2 E.1.2 where the Test Antenna will be placed inside an OTA chamber and measurements are referenced to the radiated characteristics defined over the air (OTA) at the Radiated Interface Boundary (RIB) defined in TS 138.141-2 4.2-2. The RF analyser test equipment is connected to the Test Antenna and is located outside of the OTA chamber.
- For uplink tests for type 1-H radios that elect to be tested over the air (OTA) rather than conducted, the test
configuration is described in TS 138.141-2 E.2.1 where the Test Antenna will be placed inside an OTA chamber and measurements are referenced to the radiated characteristics defined over the air (OTA) at the Radiated Interface Boundary (RIB) defined in TS 138.141-2 4.2-1. The RF generator test equipment is connected to the Test Antenna and is located outside of the OTA chamber.
- For uplink test for 1-O or 2-O radios (radios with no physical antenna or TAB connectors and consequently
only over the air (OTA) measurements are possible) the test configuration is described in TS 138.141-2 E.2.1 where the Test Antenna will be placed inside an OTA chamber and measurements are referenced to the radiated characteristics defined over the air (OTA) at the Radiated Interface Boundary (RIB) defined in TS 138.141-2 4.2-2. The RF generator test equipment is connected to the Test Antenna and is located outside of the OTA chamber.
- For downlink tests for LTE radios that elect to be tested over the air (OTA), the test configuration is described
in TS 138.141-2 E.1.2 where the Test Antenna will be placed inside an OTA chamber and measurements are referenced to the radiated characteristics defined over the air (OTA) at the Radiated Interface Boundary (RIB) defined in TS 138.141-2 4.2-1. The RF analyser test equipment is connected to the Test Antenna and is located out of the OTA chamber.
- For uplink tests for LTE radios that elect to be tested over the air (OTA), the test configuration is described in
TS 138.141-2 E.2.1 where the Test Antenna will be placed inside an OTA chamber and measurements are referenced to the radiated characteristics defined over the air (OTA) at the Radiated Interface Boundary (RIB) defined in TS 138.141-2 4.2-1. The RF generator test equipment is connected to the Test Antenna and is located out of the OTA chamber.
- Note that the chamber shown in TS 138.141-2 E1.2. and E.2.1. are generic and consequently any OTA
chamber could be used, i.e. far field, CATR, near field, reverberation, etc.
- Likewise, depending on the beamforming measurement technology the positioner in TS 138.141-2 E.1.2 and
E.2.1. may or may not be needed.
- Furthermore, depending on the beamforming method to be measured more than one test antenna with more
than one RF analyser and/or generator may also be needed.
- The basic downlink test will start with the Test model described in NR-FR1-TM1.1 and E-TM1.1 in TS
138.141-1 and 36.141 for NR FR1 and LTE radios respectively, and NR-FR2-TM1.1 in TS 138.141-2 for FR2 radios. Subsequent tests will adapt this model to test additional features of the O-RAN interface (e.g. Modifying the payload data, blanking some symbols, etc.). Note this test model describes the IQ data contained in the O-RAN packets not the O-RAN specific parameters. This test model will also be augmented with the following O-RAN specific parameters: Includes “stock” eAxC values as configured via M-Plane:
- DU_Port_ID: two bits, nominal value 00b
- BandSector: nominal 6 bits, nominal value 000000b
- CC_ID: nominal 4 bits, nominal value 0000b (most tests invoke only one component carrier)
- RU_port_ID: 4 bits, nominal values 0000b through 0011b or to whatever max value needed for a
specific test
- If the radio manufacturer declares support for multi-carrier a different eAxC will be assigned for each carrier.
Note that most tests described in ETSI TS 138.141-2[NR] and TS 136.141 [LTE] require testing at the bottom, middle and top of the supported bands of the radio. This specification relaxes that requirement because the purpose is to test the fronthaul compliance and not the radio performance.
- Compression: Static 16-bit fixed point IQ bitwidth in both DL and UL
- Beamforming: no beamforming (beamId = 0x0000), assumed to mean boresight radiation (normal to the
antenna surface) at some undetermined beamwidth (recall that beam weight magnitudes must be equal to unity)
- Transport: L2 Ethernet, eCPRI with no fragmentation and no QOS
- Delay Parameters: The test will be executed with a direct fibre connection to the O-RU and the network delay
is considered negligible for the purpose of delay management. Therefore, T12_min = T12_max = 0 and T34_min = T34_max = 0. The radio will report its supported values for: o T2a_min/max_up o Ta3_min/max_up o T2a_min/max_cp_ul o Tcp_adv_dl These parameters will be used to calculate the delay windows needed for the delay management tests below. Note that T1a_min_up = T2a_min_up and T1a_max_up = T2a_max_up due to the fixed, zero network delay. Similarly, Ta4_min_up = Ta3_min_up and Ta4_max_up = Ta3_max_up. Similarly, T1a_min_cp_ul = T2a_min_cp_ul and T1a_max_cp_ul = T2a_max_cp_ul.
- Uplink tests will start with the basic 3GPP test signal for Fixed Reference Channels for receiver sensitivity and
in-channel selectivity as described in ETSI TS 138.141-2[NR] and TS 136.141 [LTE]. All O-RAN specific parameters will be the same as described above for downlink testing. As with downlink testing subsequent tests will build on this basic waveform modifying parameters as needed to exercise O-RAN specific features.
- Uplink tests will be radiated using power levels at least 30dB higher than the reference sensitivity power levels
used to test 3GPP Receiver sensitivity described in ETSI TS 138.141-2 Table 7.3.5.2-1, Table 7.3.5.2-2 and is to ensure a clear signal is received by the O-RU so it can be accurately decoded and demodulated to ensure the correct data was received by the O-DU as was sent by the signal source. Again, the purpose of these tests is to ensure correct operation of the O-RAN fronthaul not to test receiver sensitivity.

##### 3.2.1.1.5 Test Configuration for the UC-Plane
The TER shown in Figure 2.1-1 provides M-Plane and S-Plane commands and sequences to correctly set up the O-RU for testing using the fronthaul connection – meaning a criterion and prerequisite for executing all UC-Plane tests is proper operation of the O-RU’s synchronization and M-Plane capabilities. The TER provides the specific C-Plane and U-Plane data flows and collects data from the radiated energy from the O-RU and evaluates based on the collected RF energy whether the O-RU correctly received and interpreted the fronthaul DL data flow. For many tests a single RF detector is satisfactory to detect the radiated signal but for beamforming tests an RF pattern must be measured to validate the correct beam is being generated according to the C-Plane commands and U-Plane data flowing across the fronthaul interface. In addition, the TER generates RF energy using the signal generator and feeds it to the O-RU’s antennas (or antenna connectors) which is expected to be used by the O-RU, in conjunction with the C-Plane UL commands sent by the TER over the fronthaul connection, to generate UL data flows on the fronthaul connection which are received and evaluated by the TER. For almost all tests a single RF emitter is satisfactory to generate the radiated signal, even beamforming tests wherein the received power level will validate that the beam main lobe was correctly specified across the fronthaul interface, except for the case of uplink channel-information-based beamforming and DMRS based beamforming tests where multiple RF emitters are needed to emulate multiple uplink spatial streams. 3GPP-specified tests will be used here to simplify the testing, because such tests will need to be supported by the O-RU anyway for 3GPP conformance testing. The specific test cases identify where this is possible and where changes must be made to adequately test O-RAN features. Note that when testing the O-RU for fronthaul interface conformance, much more than the fronthaul interface is being tested, indeed the entire O-RU is under test, including digital and analogue processing having nothing to do with the fronthaul interface. Therefore a “passed” test can be interpreted with some confidence as indicating a properly operating fronthaul interface, but a “failed” test may indicate a problem with the fronthaul interface or with some other operation within the O-RU therefore failed tests may require some troubleshooting. While ETSI TS 138.141-1, TS 138.141-2 [NR] and TS 136.141 [LTE] describes the basic waveform used in these tests it does not describe how the various channels should be put into O-RAN sections. The ETSI TS 138.141-1 NR-FR1-TM1.1 [NR FR1], TS 138.141- NR-FR2-TM1.1 [NR FR2], and TSTS 136.141 E-TM1.1 [LTE] signals are tightly packed with data. All tests will divide that data into “stock” data sections using the sections described below. To expedite the definition and creation of the tests, a set of standard test environments and patterns is defined in this clause. This includes a “stock” arrangement of data sections in DL (same is used for UL) which can be used regardless of the specific bandwidth and SCS used in the test. Specifically, there are “stock” 1-symbol, 2-symbol, and 3-symbol data section sets that shall be cited in test definitions (numbered “A” through “F”) that will support various test cases. The test cases are expected to specify the data section definition of a test slot and all slots are expected to follow the same data section definition unless a test specifically states otherwise. In many cases only some symbols within a slot will be subject to testing; the remaining symbols are expected to remain undefined for the test and may have data sections defined according to the normal operation of the O-DU (e.g. set to carry synch or reference signals consistent with LTE or NR). In cases where a specific type of data section cannot be supported by the DUT, then that data section is omitted in the symbol(s) and the corresponding U-Plane data shall be set to zero in DL (and arranged to have no RF power in UL). Figure 3.2.1.1-2 shows the “stock” data section definition. “ s t o c k ” d a t a s e c t io n d e fin it io n s A - F : A rro w s m a rk e n d -o f-sy m b o l fo r v a rio u s S C S a n d b a n d w id th s 00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000001111111111 1111111111 … … P R B s (m a x= 2 7 3 ) 00000000001111111111222222222233333333334444444444555555555566666666667777777777888888888899999999990000000000 3333333333 01234567890123456789012345678901234567890123456789012345678901234567890123456789012345678901234567890123456789 0123456789

# A : 1 se ctio n … … … ..

# B : 2 se ctio n s … … …

# C : 2 se ctio n s w /g a p **

# D : 6 se ctio n s… … … . ****

# E : 2 sy m b o ls
se ctio n s … … … .

# F : 3 sy m b o ls ********************
co m p le x … … … … * m arks PRBs w ith reM ask N O T all ones ** w hite-colored PRBs represent em pty PRBs

# A : 1 s y m b o l 1 s e c t io n o n ly : s im p le s t c a s e

# B : 1 s y m b o l 2 s e c t io n s : s lig h t ly m o r e c o m p le x

# C : 1 s y m b o l 2 s e c t io n s w / g a p : t e s t s a b ilit y t o h a n d le d a t a g a p s

# D : 1 s y m b o l m a n y s e c t io n s : t e s t s s in g le - P R B s e c t io n , r b b it , u s e o f n o n - a ll- o n e s r e M a s k , m a n y d a t a s e c t

# E : 2 s y m b o l 2 s e c t io n s : t e s t s m u lt i- s y m b o l s e c t io n , s y m In c b it

# F : 3 s y m b o ls m a n y s e c t io n s : t e s t s d a t a g a p s , r e M a s k , m u lt i- s y m b o l s e c t io n s
io n s … 2222222222 … 22222 There is also “stock” U-Plane data that is PN23 data, representing user data prior to modulation, as specified within ETSI TS 138.14138.141-1[CCITT Recommendation O.151 (10/92): https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-O.151-199210- I/en] which is assumed to start at a frame boundary and be identical in all frames in both DL and UL, unless a specific test states differently. The PN sequence is expected to be running for the duration of the frame for whatever is the bandwidth and SCS (this is different from how the data sections are handled, wherein the data sections are truncated based on the number of PRBs per symbol). However, in many cases only some symbols within a frame will be actually subject to testing (as defined by the specific tests) so will contain the test PN sequence data; the remaining symbols are expected to remain undefined for the test and may contain data according to the normal operation of the O-DU (e.g. set to carry synch or reference signals consistent with LTE or NR). Note that the PN sequence initial value is provided by a seed which may be included as a Test Command parameter. If the parameter is omitted the PN sequence generator will use a “seed” value of all ones. For all tests, the test definition shall define the specific slots and symbols subject to test (carrying the “stock” C-Plane data section definition and the “stock” U-Plane data) with the remaining slots and symbols carrying normal 3GPP synch and control data and either allocated user data according to 3GPP or left empty (i.e. no user data allocated). All slots and symbols subject to test are identical in each frame, so tests do not have to wait for a specific frame number and are not expected to reset or otherwise perturb the normal frame number sequence. This is intended to allow the test to disrupt normal O-DU and O-RU operation as little as possible. If there is a specific need to validate the construction of a specific frame or slot of data, a test may elect to zero the test data and leave undefined the data sections for all except one slot or frame of data; where this is necessary it will be described in the specific test definition, but this is expected to be an exceptional case.

##### 3.2.1.1.6 Generic Steps for Test Execution, O-RU TEST SCENARIO
The following are the generic test steps used when testing the O-RU, although specific tests may deviate from this general procedure: 1) Configure the Test Equipment, O-RU (TER) for test execution, which may include defining the specific test to execute. This may also include using a scripting language for describing the test. 2) Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. 3) Send appropriate C-Plane and U-Plane DL data flows and collect the O-RU radiated energy (or collect from antenna connectors) using RF detection equipment. 4) Evaluate the RF energy pattern from the O-RU to determine if the O-RU correctly received and interpreted the fronthaul C-Plane and U-Plane data flows. In some cases, it also includes decoding and demodulating the RF signal to ensure all UC-Plane messages were interpreted correctly. 5) Send appropriate C-Plane messages to define the desired UL U-Plane flow, at the same time cause the RF signal generator to radiate (or feed into antenna connectors) the appropriate RF energy pattern for the test. This also means meeting the appropriate timing windows to allow the O-RU to decode and process the C- Plane messages before the signal generator starts sending RF. 6) Collect the O-RU UL data flows on the fronthaul interface and evaluate for correctness; this will generally be U-Plane data only but in limited cases (LAA) may include UL C-Plane messages too. 7) Since FDD uplink and TDD tests require tight timing constraints between the components of the TER it is recommended that CUSM emulator signal the RF test equipment when C-Plane signalling has started for a frame. How this signal is used by the RF test equipment to synchronize transmission and reception is implementation dependant.

### 3.2.2 Minimum Capabilities of the TER for U-Plane and C-Plane Tests
Since many features of the O-RAN protocol rely on the O-DU instructing the O-RU to put data in specific resource blocks using a specific compression method it is imperative that the test equipment support features that allow comparing data on the fronthaul side with data on the RF side of the radio.

#### 3.2.2.1 Signal Analyser
- has the capability of decoding and demodulating an RF signal either received over the air or on a conducted
interface. This data must be made available for comparison with data sent on the fronthaul interface.
- is able to determine the Phase and amplitude of any signal for beamforming tests.
- Obviously must support the frequency range of the radio being tested.

#### 3.2.2.2 Signal Generator
- provides software capable of building a correct 5G or LTE waveform.
- Should have the ability to automatically build 3GPP compliant test waveforms and should provide a
mechanism for editing the parameters of that waveform.
- is able to be synchronized with the O-DU emulator to ensure proper timing of uplink C-Plane and U-Plane
messages
- For beamforming test cases:
o is able to inject beamformed RF signals according to the test requirements. o needs to be able to emulate a static channel according to the test requirements.

#### 3.2.2.3 CUSM-Plane Emulator (CUSM-E)
- is able to extract IQ data from uplink U-Plane messages and demodulate and decode the data to ensure it is the
same as what was commanded in the uplink C-Plane messages.
- has the ability to synchronize with the RF signal source.
- Should have the ability to perform as a PTP Master or subordinate depending on the synchronization
configuration the radio supports.
- has the ability to accept frequency domain IQ and encapsulate it according to user input on the correct
sections.
- For DMRS BF test cases:
o is capable of measuring EVM and BER/BLER measurements of the received signal from DUT (Uplink direction). o is able to operate with and without Channel Estimation and Equalization over the received signal from DUT (Uplink direction).

### 3.2.3 FR1 FDD Conducted-Signal Tests

#### 3.2.3.1 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class NR testing Generic (NRG)
Note that all downlink tests in this clause use a 3GPP test wave form with 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in clause ETSI TS 138.141 -1 NR-FR1-TM1.1 and clause 3.2.1.1.5 of this document. There are several variations on this test signal depending on the capabilities of the radio. If the radio does not support the numerology used in the example tests as reported in the M-plane it will be up to the test developer to modify their tests to adapt to the radio. This can usually be accomplished by using stock test patterns described above. The test is expected to follow the same spirit as the tests in this document but things like symbol numbers, number of PRBs, etc. may have to be changed. All uplink tests in this clause use a 3GPP test waveform described in 38.141-1 clause A1, in particular G-FR1-A1-5 (30 kHz subcarrier spacing, QPSK, 100 MHz BW). As with downlink tests if the radio does not support this signal, it is up to the test developer to modify the parameters of the test without changing the spirit of the test.

##### 3.2.3.1.1 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Base 3GPP DL
A. Test Description and Applicability This test is MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can meet the most basic downlink requirements for O-RAN fronthaul. Subsequent tests will build on this to exercise additional capabilities of the Fronthaul. Using a standard 3GPP NR-FR1-TM1.1 test frame for FDD the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink the standard NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal. This signal is shown below in Figure 3.2.3.1-1. This test frame consists of a PDCCH in the first two symbols of every slot consisting of 3 PRBs. All the remaining PRBs in the frame consist of Physical Downlink Shared Channel data. This configuration corresponds to stock data section A (clause 3.2.1.1.5 above) in all symbols that do not contain PDCCH channels. If the radio does not support the numerology described in clause 3.2.3.1 the stock test frames can be adapted for smaller numbers of PRBs and should still be used. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit a basic 3GPP test frame using the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.5 of this document (or a similar 3GPP waveform) except only one spatial stream on one antenna will be used. This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required). As per TM-FR1-TM1.1 all user data in this test will be zeros. B. Test Entrance Criteria The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.1 of this document. The test numerology will be kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described by TM-FR1-TM1.1. It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors. The O-RU must have a conducted antenna port (or TAB connector) to be connected to a signal analyser. It must also support the default parameters defined in clause 3.2.1.1.1 above. C. Test Methodology 1. Initial Conditions Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. Connect the signal analyser to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal. 2. Procedure Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator. Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal. Every symbol should be described by a single section (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The signal measured by the signal analyser should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 2. The test frame received by the signal analyser should be the same as the signal described above. If it contains all the same PRB assignments and all zero data, the test passes.

##### 3.2.3.1.2 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended 3GPP DL – Resource allocation
A. Test Description and Applicability This test is MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can accurately interpret C-Plane resource allocation messages, transfer U-Plane data into the correct resource blocks and transmit this data accurately in the downlink. This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required). The test will be conducted therefore there will be no channel distortion or interference. It is mandatory the radio pass this test to be considered O-RAN conformant. Using a standard 3GPP NR-FR1-TM1.1 test frame for FDD the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink the standard NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal. This signal is shown below in Figure 3.2.3.1-2. This test frame consists of a PDCCH in the first two symbols of every slot consisting of 3 PRBs. All the remaining PRBs in the frame consist of Physical Downlink Shared Channel data. This test requires non-zero data (PN23 Sequence) to populate all allocated resource blocks. This configuration corresponds to stock data section A in all symbols that do not contain PDCCH channels. B. Test Entrance Criteria The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in section NR-FR1- TM1.1. It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. Connect the signal analyser to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal. b. Procedure Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator. Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal. Every symbol should be described by a single section (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. The data in the sections must be a PN23 sequence using an initial seed of all ones. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The signal measured by the signal analyser should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 2. The test frame received by the signal analyser should be the same as the signal described above. If it contains all the same PRB assignments and data, the test passes.

##### 3.2.3.1.3 UC Plane O-RU Base Class FDD Test UL
A. Test Description and Applicability This test is MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can meet the most basic uplink requirements for O-RAN fronthaul correctly interpreting C-Plane messages and correctly constructing uplink U-Plane messages from an RF signal. Subsequent tests will build on this to exercise additional capabilities of the Fronthaul. The test validates that correct uplink operation of the O-RU using 3GPP Reference Sensitivity level definition (clause 7.2 TS 138.141-1) of the Conducted Receiver Characteristic Test (Clause 7 TS 138.141) and power Levels at least 30 dB above Reference Sensitivity power Level described in TS 138.141-1 Table 7.2.5-1. This is to improve the likelihood that all data will be received by the radio correctly since we are not interested in testing receiver sensitivity but only the O-RAN protocol compliance. This signal is described by table A.1-1 in ETSI TS 138.141-1 and is referred to as G-FR1-A1-5 with the power increased to up to 30 dB above that described in Table 7.2.5-1. Under those conditions, a 3GPP compliant O-RU should deliver uplink U-Plane information that matches the uplink signal. The TER (Test Equipment, O-RU) generates an uplink signal on the antenna connector or TAB connector, together with the corresponding C-Plane messages on the Fronthaul interface. The TER will capture the U-Plane messages generated by the DUT and validate whether the payload matches the uplink signal. It applies to the O-RAN CUS Specification [2]:
- Clause 7.4
- Clause 8.3.2
- Clause 8.3.3
B. Test Entrance Criteria The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.1 of this document. The test numerology will be kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in ETSI TS 138.141-1 clause G-FR1-A1-5. It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors. Note this signal may be changed to any of the 3GPP sensitivity test signals in table A.1-1 in ETSI TS 138.141-1 if the radio does not support the numerology and bandwidth used in this test. The test signal described in this clause will be used if the radio supports that numerology and bandwidth. C. Test Methodology Leverage from the well-known payload (PN23 sequence) of the uplink signal to compare it with the payload of the signal communicated on the O-RAN interface. The IQ information is extracted from the U-Plane message and demodulated to retrieve payload. a: Initial Conditions Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M- Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna port and configure the source to transmit the required 3GPP test signal upon receiving a trigger signal from the CUSM-E. The signal source power level should be adjusted to at least 30 dB above the setting used in the 3GPP receiver sensitivity test. b: Procedure
- Load uplink test waveform (G-FR1-A1-5 : SCS30k_51RB) on the RF signal source
- Configure signal source to play test waveforms on 10ms frame boundaries starting when it receives a trigger
signal from the O-DU emulator that C-Plane messages have been sent.
- Load C-Plane message sequence on Test Equipment O-RU (TER)
- Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul Messages
- Launch test to play the RF uplink frame after the C-Plane messages have been sent honouring timing
windows
- Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the Antenna port
- Extract IQ information
- Extract Payload
- Compare payload binary sequences
D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The verdict is “Test pass” if the payload binary sequences match between the uplink test frame sent to the DUT and the received U-Plane data from the DUT 2. If any of the test conditions are not true, the verdict for the whole test is "Fail"

##### 3.2.3.1.4 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using RB Parameter 3GPP DL –
Resource Allocation A. Test Description and Applicability This test is MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can accurately interpret C-Plane resource allocation messages with the rb parameter set, transfer U-Plane data into the correct resource blocks and transmit this data accurately in the downlink. This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required). The test will be conducted therefore there will be no channel distortion or interference. It is mandatory the radio pass this test to be considered O-RAN conformant. Using a standard 3GPP NR-FR1-TM1.1 test frame for FDD the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink the standard NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal. This signal is shown below in Figure 3.2.3.1-4. This test frame consists of a PDCCH in the first two symbols of every slot consisting of 3 PRBs. All the remaining PRBs in the frame consist of Physical Downlink Shared Channel data. This test requires non-zero data to populate all allocated resource blocks. B. Test Entrance Criteria The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.1 of this document. The test numerology will be kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in clause NR-FR1-TM1.1. It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors. The signal analyser must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. Connect the signal analyser to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal. b. Procedure Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator. Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal. Every allocated (see below) symbol should be described by sections (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. Symbol #3 of each slot should be Stock data section “D” as shown in clause 3.2.1.1.5 above. The control plane for symbol #3 will only include PRBs number 5 through 23. C-Plane messages will have the rb bit set to one for this section. All other DL-SCH symbols and PRBs other than PRBs 5-23 will either not contain data (i.e. left empty) or contain user data as defined in the 3GPP NR-FR-TM1.1 FDD test model. There are two options to conduct the test: 1. A single data section with the rb bit set and a PN23 sequence sent as shown below: A new PN23 sequence will be started but every other PRB will contain only the odd parts of the PN23 sequence (as shown in green). The other PRBs (shown in orange) will not contain data and will not be sent to the O-RU. Thus, a single data section will be used, and the corresponding U- Plane message will only contain data for the odd PRBs as shown above. The parts of the PN23 sequence not used (shown marked with an X) will be discarded. 2. Two data sections one containing the odd parts of the PN23 sequence and the other containing the even parts as shown below: A new PN23 sequence will be started but every other PRB in one section will contain only the odd parts of the PN23 sequence (as shown in green). The second data section will contain the even parts of the PN23 sequence. The C-Plane messages for both sections will use the rb bit. The U- Plane messages corresponding to the first data section will contain only the odd parts of the PN23 sequence, the U-Plane message corresponding to the second data section will only contain the even parts. Thus, a continuous PN23 sequence will be sent only in PRBs 5 through 23. Additional sections should be included to describe the DCI symbols, Reference Signals and also DL-SCH data (if opted to allocated data for the remining symbols) as described in 38.141-1. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The signal measured by the signal analyser should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 2. The test frame received by the signal analyser should only contain the PN23 sequence data in every other PRB in symbol #3 PRBs 5 to 23 if the test is conducted using option #1. 3. The test frame received by the signal analyser should only contain the PN23 sequence data in every PRB in symbol #3 PRBs 5 to 23 if the test is conducted using option #2.

##### 3.2.3.1.5 UC Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using RB Parameter 3GPP UL –
Resource Allocation A. Test Description and Applicability This test is MANDATORY. This test adds the capability of interpreting the rb parameter to the basic uplink test Validate correct uplink operation of the O-RU using 3GPP Reference Sensitivity level definition (clause 7.2 TS 138.141-1) of the Conducted Receiver Characteristic Test (clause 7 TS 138.104) and power Levels at least 30 dB above Reference Sensitivity power Level described in TS 138.141-1 Table 7.2.5-1. This is to improve the likelihood that all data will be received by the radio correctly since we are not interested in testing receiver sensitivity but only the O-RAN protocol compliance. Using an RF data source, the test equipment will generate a 3GPP test signal as shown in Figure 3.2.3.1-5 above. The radio will demodulate and decode this signal and send frequency domain IQ to the O-DU- Emulator as instructed by the O-DU-emulator using uplink C-Plane messages The TER (Test Equipment, O-RU) generates an uplink signal on the antenna connector or TAB connector, together with the corresponding C-Plane messages on the Fronthaul interface. The TER will capture the U-Plane messages generated by the DUT and validate if the payload matches with the uplink signal. It applies to the O-RAN CUS Specification [2]:
- Clause 7.4
- Clause 8.3.2
- Clause 8.3.3
B. Test Entrance Criteria The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.1 of this document. The test numerology will be kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in ETSI TS 138.141-1 clause G-FR1-A1-5. It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors. The radio must report that it supports the rb parameter. Note this signal may be changed to any of the 3GPP sensitivity test signals in table A.1-1 in ETSI TS 138.141-1 if the radio does not support the numerology and bandwidth used in this test. The test signal described in this clause will be used if the radio supports that numerology and bandwidth. C. Test Methodology Leverage from the well-known payload (Pseudo Random sequence) of the uplink signal to compare it with the payload of the signal communicated on the O-RAN interface. The IQ information is extracted from the U-Plane message and demodulated to retrieve payload. a: Initial Conditions Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna port and configure the source to transmit the required 3GPP test signal upon receiving a trigger signal from the CUSM-E. The signal source power level should be adjusted to at least 30 dB above the setting used in the 3GPP receiver sensitivity test. b: Procedure
- Load uplink test waveform (G-FR1-A1-5 : SCS30k_51RB) on the RF signal source. Note this signal
has a PN23 sequence as user data.
- Configure signal source to play test waveforms on 10ms frame boundaries starting when it receives a
trigger signal from the O-DU emulator that C-Plane messages have been sent.
- Load C-Plane message sequence on Test Equipment O-RU (TER) – In this test only symbol number 6
will be used and all 51 PRBs will be used. All other symbols will not contain data except required DRMS signals which may be used to synchronize test equipment. There are two options for conducting this test: 1. A single data section with the rb bit set and a PN23 sequence sent as shown below: A new PN23 sequence will be started but every other PRB will contain only the odd parts of the PN23 sequence (as shown in blue). The other PRBs (shown in orange) will not contain data and will not be sent to the O-RU. Thus, a single data section will be used, and the corresponding U-Plane message will only contain data for the odd PRBs as shown above. The parts of the PN23 sequence not used (shown marked with an X) will be discarded. 2. Two data sections one containing the odd parts of the PN23 sequence and the other containing the even parts as shown below: A new PN23 sequence will be started but every other PRB in one section will contain only the odd parts of the PN23 sequence (as shown in blue). The second data section will contain the even parts of the PN23 sequence (as shown in orange). The C-Plane messages for both sections will use the rb bit. The U-Plane messages corresponding to the first data section will contain only the odd parts of the PN23 sequence, the U-Plane message corresponding to the second data section will only contain the even parts. Thus, a continuous PN23 sequence will be sent only in PRBs 0 through 51.
- Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul Messages
- Launch test to play the C-Plane messages and trigger the source to play the RF signal on a
frame boundary.
- Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the
Antenna port
- Extract IQ information
- Extract Payload
- Compare payload binary sequences
D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The verdict is “Test pass” if payload binary sequences match between the uplink test frame sent to the DUT and the received U-Plane data from the DUT. In particular symbol #6 should contain either every other PRB of the PN23 sequence or a continuous PN23 sequence in PRBs 0 through 51 depending which test option is chosen. 2. If any of the test conditions is not true, the verdict for the whole test is "Fail".

##### 3.2.3.1.6 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using SymInc Parameter 3GPP DL –
Resource Allocation A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can accurately interpret C-Plane resource allocation messages with the SymInc parameter set, transfer U-Plane data into the correct resource blocks and transmit this data accurately in the downlink. This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required). The test will be conducted therefore there will be no channel distortion or interference. Using a standard 3GPP NR-FR1-TM1.1 test frame for FDD the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink the standard NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal. This signal is shown below in Figure 3.2.3.1-6. This test frame consists of a PDCCH in the first two symbols of every slot consisting of 3 PRBs. All the remaining PRBs in the frame consist of Physical Downlink Shared Channel data. This test requires to either populate all allocated resource blocks with non-zero data or leave all resource blocks, except for the resource blocks under test, empty or unallocated. In the case of nonzero data allocation, this data will be a PN23 sequence with a seed value of all ones. Two symbols will be reserved for testing the SymInc parameter as described below. B. Test Entrance Criteria The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.1 of this document. The test numerology will be kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in clause NR-FR1-TM1.1. It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors. The Radio must support the SymInc parameter as notified by the M-Plane. The signal analyser must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. Connect the signal analyser to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal. b. Procedure Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator. Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal. If all symbols have user data allocated, every symbol may be described by either multiple or a single type 1 section (DL-SCH and DCI) except symbols #5 and #6 which will be used for the SymInc test. The data in these sections must be a PN23 sequence using an initial seed of all ones. Each symbol should be a new PN23 sequence, that is PRB 0 should contain the data from a new PN23 sequence for each symbol. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. Symbols number 5 and 6 should be stock data sections type “E” as shown above. This stock data section consists of two adjacent symbols each containing two sections. The corresponding C-Plane message will contain 4 section IDs in a single C-Plane message describing symbols #5 and #6. The startSymbolId in the application header will be symbol #5. The third section ID for symbol #6 will have the SymInc bit set informing the O-RU that the third section will begin describing symbol #6. The corresponding U-Plane messages will be a new PN23 Sequence for each symbol (5 and 6). D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The signal measured by the signal analyser should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 2. The test frame received by the signal analyser should only contain the same PN23 signals that were sent in the U-Plane.

##### 3.2.3.1.7 UC Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using SymInc Parameter 3GPP UL –
Resource Allocation A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to add the capability of interpreting the SymInc parameter to the basic uplink test. Validate correct uplink operation of the O-RU using 3GPP Reference Sensitivity level definition (Clause 7.2 TS 138.141-1) of the Conducted Receiver Characteristic Test (clause 7 TS 138.141) and power Levels at least 30 dB above Reference Sensitivity power Level described in TS 138.141-1 table 7.2.5-1. This is to improve the likelihood that all data will be received by the radio correctly since we are not interested in testing receiver sensitivity but only the O-RAN protocol compliance. C-Plane messages will contain 4 sections with the SymInc bit set specifying that the radio should increment the current symbol. Using an RF source, the test equipment will generate a 3GPP test signal as shown in Figure 3.2.3.1-7 above. The radio will demodulate and decode this signal and send frequency domain IQ to the O-DU-Emulator as instructed by the O-DU-emulator using uplink C-Plane messages. Note this signal has 20 slots with all symbols populated with only uplink shared data in the only first 51 RBs. For this test, all the symbols except the ones being under test, symbols #5 and #6, may either be left empty/unallocated or be allocated with user data according to the test model above. If the symbols are populated with user data, PN23 data sequence will be used. The TER (Test Equipment, O-RU) generates an uplink signal on the antenna connector or TAB connector, together with the corresponding C-Plane messages on the Fronthaul interface. The TER will capture the U-Plane messages generated by the DUT and validate if the payload matches with the uplink signal. It applies to the O-RAN CUS Specification [2]:
- Clause 7.4
- Clause 8.3.2
- Clause 8.3.3
B. Test Entrance Criteria The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.1 of this document. The test numerology will be kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in ETSI TS 138.141-1 clause G-FR1-A1-5. It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors. The radio must report that it supports the SymInc parameter. Note this signal may be changed to any of the 3GPP sensitivity test signals in table A.1-1 in ETSI TS 138.141-1 if the radio does not support the numerology and bandwidth used in this test. The test signal described in this clause will be used if the radio supports that numerology and bandwidth. C. Test Methodology Leverage from the well-known payload (Pseudo Random sequence) of the uplink signal to compare it with the payload of the signal communicated on the O-RAN interface. The IQ information is extracted from the U-Plane message and demodulated to retrieve payload. a. Initial Conditions Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna port and configure the source to transmit the required 3GPP test signal upon receiving a trigger signal from the CUSM-E. The signal source power level should be adjusted to at least 30 dB above the setting used in the 3GPP receiver sensitivity test. b. Procedure
- Load uplink test waveform (G-FR1-A1-5 : SCS30k_51RB, 100 MHz) on the RF signal source. Note this
signal has a PN23 sequence as user data. Configure the source to generate a new PN23 sequence in symbols #5 and #6.
- Configure signal source to play test waveforms on 10ms frame boundaries starting when it receives a
trigger signal from the O-DU emulator that C-Plane messages have been sent.
- Load C-Plane message sequence on Test Equipment O-RU (TER) – Only symbols #5 and #6 in each slot
will be used in this test. All other symbols will contain either user data and/or reference signals but will not be considered part of the test. These two symbols will be used to determine whether the radio properly increments the current symbol ID when the SymInc bit is set. The C-Plane message for symbol #5 should have the SymInc bit set. This message should have a third section describing symbol #6 (using the SymInc mechanism). All PRBs in each symbol will be requested (In the example waveform 51 PRBs).
- Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul Messages
- Launch test to play the C-Plane messages and trigger the source to play the RF signal on a frame
boundary.
- Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the Antenna
port
- Extract IQ information
- Extract Payload
- Compare payload binary sequences
D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The verdict is “Test pass” if payload binary sequences match between the uplink test frame sent to the DUT and the received U-Plane data from the DUT. In particular symbols number 5 and 6 should properly contain the correct PN23 sequences that were built by the signal source. 2. If any of the test conditions is not true, the verdict for the whole test is "Fail"

##### 3.2.3.1.8 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using reMask Parameter 3GPP DL –
Resource Allocation A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can correctly decode and interpret C-Plane and U-Plane messages putting resource block in the correct place in the transmitted signal using the reMask parameter. In this test stock data section ”D” will be used to exercise the reMask, only PRBs 1 through 5 will be used in this test. Using a standard 3GPP NR-FR1-TM1.1 test frame for FDD the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink the standard NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal as modified below. This signal is shown below in Figure 3.2.3.1-8: This generic 3GPP NR-FR1-TM1.1 test frame consists of a PDCCH in the first two symbols of every slot consisting of 3 PRBs. All the remaining PRBs in the frame consist of Physical Downlink Shared Channel data. Resource blocks that are not under test may be filled with non-zero data or may be left unallocated. If filled with non-zero data, a PN23 sequence with a seed value of all ones must be used. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can accurately interpret C-Plane resource allocation messages with the reMask parameter set, transfer U-Plane data into the correct resource elements and transmit this data accurately in the downlink. This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required). The test will be conducted therefore there will be no channel distortion or interference. It is mandatory the radio pass this test to be considered O-RAN conformant. This test will utilize stock data section D described above. B. Test Entrance Criteria The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.1 of this document. The test numerology will be kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in clause NR-FR1-TM1.1. It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors. The Radio must support the reMask parameter as notified by the M-Plane. The signal analyser must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. Connect the signal analyser to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal. b. Procedure Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator. Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal as described below. If all symbols have user data allocated, every symbol may be described by type 1 sections (DL-SCH and DCI). Only symbol #2 will be used for the reMask test. The data in this section must be a PN23 sequence using an initial seed of all ones. The first bits of the PN23 will be in PRB1 and continue in consecutive resource elements to the end of PRB5. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. The PN23 sequence will be interleaved with DMRS signals as shown below: Symbol number 2 should be stock data Section Type “D” as shown above. This test will only be using PRBs 1 through 5. The corresponding C-Plane message will contain two section IDs in a single C-Plane message describing symbol #2. The startSymbolId in the application header will be symbol #2. The C-Plane message will have one section with the reMask set to all 101010101010b (only DMRS REs) and another section with the reMask set to all ones. The first section (reMask = 101010101010b) will be for PRB 1 only, the second section will be for PRBs 2-5 and will have an reMask value of all ones. The two sections will have different section IDs. The remainder of the PRBs will not be used and set to zero value. The corresponding U-Plane messages will be a new PN23 Sequence (initial seed is all ones) in PRBs 1 through of symbol #2 alternated with the DMRS signals. The first U-Plane message will correspond to sectionID with reMask set to 101010101010b and will contain one PRB with user data and DMRS signals as shown. The second U-Plane message will correspond to PRBs 2-5 and contain the same alternate data. The purpose of the section ID containing valid data is to ensure the radio sends a signal to synchronize the signal analyser. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The signal measured by the signal analyser should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 2. The test frame received by the signal analyser should only contain the same PN23 signals that were sent in the U-Plane only for PRBs 2-5. Only DMRS signals should be sent for PRB1.

##### 3.2.3.1.9 UC Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using reMask Parameter 3GPP UL –
Resource Allocation A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. This test adds the capability of interpreting the reMask parameter to the basic uplink test. Validate correct uplink operation of the O-RU using 3GPP Reference Sensitivity level definition (Clause 7.2 TS 138.141-1) of the Conducted Receiver Characteristic Test (clause 7 TS 138.141) and power Levels at least 30 dB above Reference Sensitivity power Level described in TS 138.141-1 Table 7.2.5-1. This is to improve the likelihood that all data will be received by the radio correctly since we are not interested in testing receiver sensitivity but only the O-RAN protocol compliance. Using an RF source, the test equipment will generate a 3GPP test signal as shown in Figure 3.2.3.1-9 above. The radio will demodulate and decode this signal and send frequency domain IQ to the O-DU-Emulator as instructed by the O-DU-emulator using uplink C-Plane messages as described below. This test might either populate all symbols with non-zero data or leave them unallocated/empty. If symbols are populated, a PN23 sequence with seed all ones will be used. The TER (Test Equipment, O-RU) generates an uplink signal on the antenna connector or TAB connector, together with the corresponding C-Plane messages on the Fronthaul interface. The TER will capture the U-Plane messages generated by the DUT and validate if the payload matches the uplink signal. It applies to the O-RAN CUS Specification [2]:
- Clause 7.4
- Clause 8.3.2
- Clause 8.3.3
B. Test Entrance Criteria The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.1 of this document. The test numerology will be kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in ETSI TS 138.141-1 clause G-FR1-A1-5. It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors. The radio must report that it supports the reMask parameter. Note this signal may be changed to any of the 3GPP sensitivity test signals in table A.1-1 in ETSI TS 138.141-1 if the radio does not support the numerology and bandwidth used in this test. The test signal described in this clause will be used if the radio supports that numerology and bandwidth. C. Test Methodology Leverage from the well-known payload PN23 sequence of the uplink signal to compare it with the payload of the signal communicated on the O-RAN interface. The IQ information is extracted from the U-Plane message and demodulated to retrieve payload. a. Initial Conditions Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna port and configure the source to transmit the required 3GPP test signal upon receiving a trigger signal from the CUSM-E. The signal source power level should be adjusted to at least 30 dB above the setting used in the 3GPP receiver sensitivity test. b: Procedure
- Load uplink test waveform (G-FR1-A1-5 : SCS30k_51RB) on the RF signal source. Note this signal will
have a PN23 sequence as user data.
- Configure signal source to play the test waveform described below on 10ms frame boundaries starting
when it receives a trigger signal from the O-DU emulator that C-Plane messages have been sent.
- Load C-Plane message sequence on Test Equipment O-RU (TER). For symbol #2 only PRBs 1-5 will be
sent with the alternating user data and DMRS pattern shown below. Other symbols may be used in this test or be left unallocated (unused). However other symbols containing reference signals may be used to ensure the O-RU can synchronize with the TER. The format of symbol #2 used in this test will be: The C-Plane message describing symbol #2 should contain two sections with different section IDs. Only PRBs 1-5 will be used (Matching stock data Section Type “D”). The first section should only describe PRB 1 and have an reMask of 101010101010b. The second section should describe PRBs 2-5 and have an reMask of all ones. The two sections should have different section IDs.
- Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul Messages
- Launch test to play the C-Plane messages and trigger the source to play the RF signal on a frame
boundary.
- Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the Antenna
port
- Extract IQ information
- Extract Payload
- Compare payload binary sequences
D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The verdict is “Test pass” if payload binary sequences match between the uplink test frame sent to the DUT and the received U-Plane data from the DUT. In particular, there should only be U-Plane messages for PRBs 1-5 with user data and DRMS signals in PRBs 2-5 and only DMRS signals in PRB 1. 2. If any of the test conditions is not true, the verdict for the whole test is "Fail"

##### 3.2.3.1.10 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using Non-contiguous PRB Allocation
Section Extension 6 3GPP DL – Resource Allocation A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can correctly decode and interpret C-Plane and U-Plane messages putting resource block in the correct place in the transmitted signal using the extension type 6. In this test stock data section definition C will be used to exercise the non-contiguous RB allocation, all 273 PRBs (or the max number of PRBs per symbol for the highest numerology the radio supports) will be used in this test. Using a standard 3GPP NR-FR1-TM1.1 test frame for FDD the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink the standard NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal with the modifications described below (supporting non-contiguous PRB allocation). The standard 3GPP NR-FR1-TM1.1 is shown in Figure 3.2.3.1-10 below: This generic NR-FR1-TM1.1 test frame consists of a PDCCH in the first two symbols of every slot consisting of PRBs. All the remaining PRBs in the frame consist of Physical Downlink Shared Channel data. This test might either populate all symbols with non-zero data or leave them unallocated/empty. If symbols are populated, a PN23 sequence with seed all ones will be used. This test will utilize stock data section definition C described above. This data section includes 4 RBs in the first RB group, the second group of 4 RBs are blank and the remainder of the RBGs contain user data. This stock data section will be repeated over three symbols to test the SymbolMask parameter. B. Test Entrance Criteria The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.1 of this document. The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in clause NR-FR1-TM1.1. It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors. The Radio must support the extension type 6 as notified by the M-Plane. The signal analyser must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. Connect the signal analyser to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal. b. Procedure For this test only symbols number 6 and 7 will be used in each slot. Other symbols may be used in this test or be left unallocated (unused). However other symbols containing reference signals may be used to ensure the O-RU can synchronize with the TER. The starting PRB will be zero and number of PRBs will be chosen from one or more columns in Table 3.2.3-1 below. The resource block group size will be 16 based on ETSI TS 138.214 Table 5.1.2.2.1-1 as shown in Table 3.2.3-1 below using configuration 2. Bandwidth Part Size Configuration 1 Configuration 2

# 37 – 72 4 8

# 73 – 144 8 16

# 145 – 275 16 16
Using the calculations in the O-RAN CUS Specification [2] clause 7.7.6 for the test waveform described above, the ID of the last RBG will be 17, f(0) will be 16, f(n) will be 16 and f(lastRbgID) will be 1 (17 total RBGs). StartPrbc will be zero and numPrbc will be 273. If the radio does not support this numerology the following table will apply. The number of PRBs correspond to Table 3.2.3-2: # PRBs per Symbol (11-79) max

# 24 25 32 50 51 52 65 66 79
PRB/sym numPRBc 11 24 25 32 50 51 52 65 66 79 rbgSize 4 4 4 4 8 8 8 8 8 16 lastRbgID 2 5 6 7 6 6 6 8 8 4 f(0) 4 4 4 4 8 8 8 8 8 16 f(n) 4 4 4 4 8 8 8 8 8 16 F(lastRbgID) 3 4 1 4 2 3 4 1 2 15 rbgMask 0000005 000003D 000007D 00000FD 000007D 000007D 000007D 00001FD 00001FD 000001D (Hex) # PRBs per Symbol (100-273) max PRB/sym 100 106 107 132 133 135 162 217 270 273 numPRBc 100 106 107 132 133 135 162 217 270 273 rbgSize 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 lastRbgID 6 6 6 8 8 8 10 13 16 17 f(0) 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 f(n) 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 F(lastRbgID) 4 10 11 4 5 7 2 9 14 1 rbgMask (Hex) 000007D 000007D 000007D 00001FD 00001FD 00001FD 00007FD 0003FFD 001FFFD 003FFFD Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator. Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal. Every symbol should be described by a single type 1 section (DL-SCH and DCI) except symbols #6 and #7 which will be used for the section extension 6 test. The data in symbol #6 should be a new PN23 sequence starting in the first PRB and continuing to PRB 273 (RBG number 17). Symbol #7 should be identical to symbol #6. The rbgMask value should be set to 0x003FFFD and the symbolMask value should be set to 00000011000000b. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. The O-DU emulator will build a U-Plane message containing the PN23 IQ data for the first 16 PRBs (RBG 0), this message will have the section ID used in the C-Plane message described above. Another U-Plane message will be created using the same section ID but with the PN23 data for RBGs 2-17 in it. The same U- Plane messages will be used for symbol #7. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The signal measured by the signal analyser should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 2. The test frame received by the signal analyser should only contain the same PN23 signals that were sent in the U-Plane, that is the PN23 sequence in the first 16 PRBs, nothing in the next 16 PRBs and the remainder of the PN23 sequence in RBGs 2-17.

##### 3.2.3.1.11 UC Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using Non-contiguous PRB Allocation
Section Extension 6 3GPP UL – Resource Allocation A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to validate the capability of interpreting the section extension 6, non-contiguous PRB allocation to the basic uplink test. Validate correct uplink operation of the O-RU using 3GPP Reference Sensitivity level definition (clause 7.2 ETSI TS 138.141-1) of the Conducted Receiver Characteristic Test (clause 7 ETSI TS 138.141) and power Levels at least 30 dB above Reference Sensitivity power Level described in ETSI TS 138.141-1 Table 7.2.5-1. This is to improve the likelihood that all data will be received by the radio correctly since we are not interested in testing receiver sensitivity but only the O-RAN protocol compliance. C-Plane messages will contain 2 symbols with the same set of non-contiguous PRBs referenced to test both the symbolMask and the rbgMask. Using an RF source, the test equipment will generate a 3GPP test signal as shown in Figure 3.2.3.1-11 above. The radio will demodulate and decode this signal and send frequency domain IQ to the O-DU-Emulator as instructed by the O-DU-emulator using uplink C-Plane messages containing section extension 6. Note this signal has 20 slots with all symbols populated with only uplink shared data in the only first 51 RBs. The symbols are populated with PN23 data. The TER (Test Equipment, O-RU) generates an uplink signal on the antenna connector or TAB connector, together with the corresponding C-Plane messages on the Fronthaul interface. The TER will capture the U-Plane messages generated by the DUT and validate if the payload matches with the uplink signal. It applies to the O-RAN CUS Specification [2]:
- Clause 7.4
- Clause 8.3.2
- Clause 8.3.3
B. Test Entrance Criteria The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.1 of this document. The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in ETSI TS 138.141-1 clause G-FR1-A1-5. It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors. The radio must report that it supports section extension type 6, non-contiguous PRB allocations. Note this signal may be changed to any of the 3GPP sensitivity test signals in Table A.1-1 in ETSI TS 138.141-1 if the radio does not support the numerology and bandwidth used in this test. The test signal described in this section will be used if the radio supports that numerology and bandwidth. C. Test Methodology Leverage from the well-known payload (Pseudo Random sequence) of the uplink signal to compare it with the payload of the signal communicated on the O-RAN interface. The IQ information is extracted from the U-Plane message and demodulated to retrieve payload. a. Initial Conditions Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M- Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna port and configure the source to transmit the required 3GPP test signal upon receiving a trigger signal from the CUSM-E. The signal source power level should be adjusted to at least 30 dB above the setting used in the 3GPP receiver sensitivity test. b. Procedure
- Load uplink test waveform (G-FR1-A1-5 : SCS130k_51RB) on the RF signal source. Note this signal
should contain a new PN23 sequence as user data in PRBs 0 through 51 for symbols 6 and 7. The remainder of the test waveform may be left unallocated or allocated as described in 3GPP.
- Configure signal source to play test waveforms on 10ms frame boundaries starting when it receives a trigger
signal from the O-DU emulator that C-Plane messages have been sent.
- Load C-Plane message sequence on Test Equipment O-RU (TER) – Use the O-DU emulator control
interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal. For this test symbols number 6 and 7 will be used in each slot. The starting PRB will be zero and number of PRBs will be 51. The resource block group size will be 8. Using the calculations in the O-RAN CUS Specification [2], clause 7.7.6, the ID of the last RBG will be 6, f(0) will be 8, f(n) will be 8 and f(lastRbgID) will be 3. StartPrbc will be zero and numPrbc will be 51. If symbols other than #6 and #7 are allocated, every symbol should be described by multiple type 1 section (DL-SCH and DCI) except symbols #6 and #7 which will be used for the section extension 6 test. The data in symbol #6 is expected to be a new PN23 sequence starting in the first PRB and continuing to PRB 48 (RBG number 2). Symbol #7 should be identical to symbol #6. The rbgMask value should be set to 0x000007D and the symbolMask value should be set to 00000011000000b. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.
- Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul Messages
- Launch test to play the C-Plane messages and trigger the source to play the RF signal on a frame boundary.
- Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the Antenna port
- Extract IQ information
- Extract Payload
- Compare payload binary sequences
D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The verdict is “Test pass” if the test frame received by the signal analyser contains the same PN23 signals that were sent in the U-Plane, that is the PN23 sequence in the first 16 PRBs, nothing in the next 16 PRBs and the remainder of the PN23 sequence in RBGs 2 (Next 16 PRBs). 2. If any of the test conditions is not true, the verdict for the whole test is "Fail".

##### 3.2.3.1.12 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Section Extension 10 – Multiple Port Grouping
DL – Resource allocation A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can accurately interpret C-Plane resource allocation messages when section extension 10 is supported by the radio, transfer U-Plane data into the correct resource blocks and transmit this data accurately in the downlink. This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required). The test will be conducted therefore there will be no channel distortion or interference. Note the purpose of this test is not to test the use of section extension 10 with either section extension 1 or 2 (Real time beam weights or attributes) since these are special conditions. There are four versions of beam groupings: Common Beam, beam matrix indication, beam vector listing and beamId/ueId listing with associated port-list index. Each of these will be tested. The beamforming measurements will be conducted using the method described in clause 3.2.3.2.3 and 3.2.3.2.4 (Predefined beamforming). Using a standard 3GPP NR-FR1-TM1.1 test frame for FDD the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink the standard NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal. This signal is shown below in Figure 3.2.3.1-12. This test frame consists of a PDCCH in the first two symbols of every slot consisting of 3 PRBs. All the remaining PRBs in the frame consist of Physical Downlink Shared Channel data. This test requires non-zero data (PN23 Sequence) to populate all allocated resource blocks. This configuration corresponds to stock data section A in all symbols that do not contain PDCCH channels. For this test the O-RU will indicate the default eAxC ID to use indicating this port grouping as well as the number of ports in this grouping, call this value nPG. B. Test Entrance Criteria The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in clause NR-FR1- TM1.1. It will be for 5G New Radio only. There will be numPortc “layers” or eAxCs referred to in the test. That is there will be one C-Plane message referencing the port group eAxC ID obtained from the M-Plane but numPortc U-Plane messages. For Test Case#4, (beamGroupType = 11b, beamId/ueId listing with associated port-list index), O-RU will advertise over M-Plane support for Section Extension 10, beamGroupType = 11b by setting the flag se-10-bgt-11b-supported = TRUE. Manufacturers’ must provide their defined list of beam indices and their associated magnitude and phase relation between antenna ports or TAB connectors and/or beam directions with antenna array characteristics. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. Connect the signal analyser to the O-RU antenna ports being tested and configure the analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal. Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance. Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range. b. Procedure Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator. Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane message that describes the signal. This message should include section extension 10. Note the test will be performed four times exercising all four beam group types. Every symbol should be described by a single section (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. The data in the sections must be a PN23 sequence using an initial seed of all ones. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages for each layer (i.e. numPortc repetitions). Test case #1 (beamGroupType = 00b, Common Beam): For this test the beamGroupType parameter should be set to 00b. It is expected that all layers will be played on the same beam ID and this is the beam ID used in the corresponding C-Plane message. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame. Use the signal analyser to decode at least two beams and ensure they are the same. Test case #2 (beamGroupType = 01b, beam matrix indication): For this test the beamGroupType parameter should be set to 01b. It is expected that all layers will be played on consecutive beam IDs starting with the beam ID in the C-Plane message. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame. Use the signal analyser to decode at least two beams and ensure they meet the consecutive beam criteria. Test case #3 (beamGroupType = 10b, beam vector listing): For this test the beamGroupType parameter should be set to 10b. In this case the section extension should list “numPortc” beam IDs in section extension 10. It is expected that all layers will be played on the beam IDs indicated in the section extension. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame. Use the signal analyser to decode at least two beams and ensure they agree with the beam vector listing. Test case #4 (beamGroupType = 11b, beamId/ueId listing with associated port-list index): For this test the beamGroupType parameter should be set to 11b. With the usage of this beamGroupType, O- DU can pick arbitrary eAxC-ID value(s) from the M-Plane configured port-list and specify the associated beamId/ueId in the section extension. Hence, in this case the section extension should list “numPortc” value equal to the number of “portListIndex” values in the section extension. Each “portListIndex” indicates the index of an eAxC-ID in the port-list. It is expected that only the layers associated with specified “portListIndex” will be played on the beam IDs indicated in the section extension. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame. Use the signal analyser to decode at least two beams and ensure they agree with the beam vector listing. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The signal measured by the signal analyser should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 2. The test frame received by the signal analyser should be the same as the signal described above. 3. If it contains all the same PRB assignments and data, and the beams are measured as described in test cases #1 through #3 above the test passes.

##### 3.2.3.1.13 UC Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended multiple port grouping using section
extension 10 UL– Resource Allocation A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to validate the capability of interpreting the section extension 10, multiple port groupings in the basic uplink test. Validate correct uplink operation of the O-RU using 3GPP Reference Sensitivity level definition (Section 7.2 ETSI TS 138.141-1) of the Conducted Receiver Characteristic Test section (Section 7 ETSI TS 138.141) and power Levels at least 30 dB above Reference Sensitivity power Level described in ETSI TS 138.141-1 Table 7.2.5-1. This is to improve the likelihood that all data will be received by the radio correctly since we are not interested in testing receiver sensitivity but only the O-RAN protocol compliance. Note the purpose of this test is not to test the use of section extension 10 with either section extension 1 or 2 (Real time beam weights or attributes) since these are special conditions. There are four versions of beam groupings: Common Beam, beam matrix indication, beam vector listing and beamId/ueId listing with associated port-list index. Each of these will be tested. The beamforming measurements will be conducted using the method described in clause 3.2.3.2.3 and 3.2.3.2.4 (Predefined beamforming). Only Section Type 1 messages will be used in this test. Using an RF source, the test equipment will generate a 3GPP test signal as shown in Figure 3.2.3.1-13 above. The radio will demodulate and decode this signal and send frequency domain IQ to the O-DU-Emulator as instructed by the O-DU-emulator using uplink C-Plane messages containing section extension 10. Note this signal has 20 slots with all symbols populated with only uplink shared channel data in the only first 51 RBs. The symbols are populated with PN23 data. The TER (Test Equipment, O-RU) generates an uplink signal on the antenna connectors or TAB connectors, together with the corresponding C-Plane messages on the Fronthaul interface. The TER will capture the U-Plane messages generated by the DUT and validate if the payload matches with the uplink signal. It applies to the O-RAN CUS Specification [2]:
- Clause 7.4
- Clause 8.3.2
- Clause 8.3.3
B. Test Entrance Criteria The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.1 of this document. The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in ETSI TS 138.141-1 clause G-FR1-A1-5. It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors. The radio must report that it supports section extension type 10, multiple port groupings. For Test Case#4, (beamGroupType = 11b, beamId/ueId listing with associated port-list index), O-RU will advertise over M-Plane support for Section Extension 10, beamGroupType = 11b by setting the flag se-10-bgt-11b-supported = TRUE. Note this signal may be changed to any of the 3GPP sensitivity test signals in Table A.1-1 in ETSI TS 138.141-1 if the radio does not support the numerology and bandwidth used in this test. The test signal described in this section will be used if the radio supports that numerology and bandwidth. Manufacturers’ must provide their defined list of beam indices and their associated magnitude and phase relation between antenna ports or TAB connectors and/or beam directions with antenna array characteristics. C. Test Methodology Leverage from the well-known payload (Pseudo Random sequence) of the uplink signal to compare it with the payload of the signal communicated on the O-RAN interface. The IQ information is extracted from the U-Plane message and demodulated to retrieve payload. Signals will be applied to connector ports emulating the phase and amplitude corresponding to the associated beam ID direction or phase relationship provided by the manufacturer. a. Initial Conditions Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M- Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna ports that belong to the beam under test and configure the source to transmit the required 3GPP test signal upon receiving a trigger signal from the CUSM-E. Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance. The signal source power level should be adjusted to at least 30 dB above the setting used in the 3GPP receiver sensitivity test. Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range b. Procedure
- Load uplink test waveform (G-FR1-A1-5 : SCS130k_51RB) on the RF signal source. Note this signal
should contain a new PN23 sequence as user data in PRBs 0 through 51 for symbols 6 and 7. The remainder of the test waveform is as described in 3GPP.
- Configure signal source to play test waveforms on 10ms frame boundaries starting when it receives a trigger
signal from the O-DU emulator that C-Plane messages have been sent.
- Inject the test signal into the O-RU with the application of an initial set of beamweights, or equivalently
magnitude and phase relation, between all the TER ports connected to the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) to emulate the phase and magnitude difference “seen” by the antenna elements under test. For example, initial beamweights could be set to be “all equal” (i.e. no beamforming).
- Load C-Plane message sequence on Test Equipment O-RU (TER) – Use the O-DU emulator control
interface to build the appropriate C-Plane message (Single C-Plane message) that describes the signal. For this test symbols number 6 and 7 will be used in each slot. Every symbol should be described by a single type 1 section (DL-SCH and DCI) except symbols #6 and #7 which will be used as the payload data. The data in symbol #6 is expected to be a new PN23 sequence starting in the first PRB and continuing to PRB 51. Symbol #7 should be identical to symbol #6. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. The C-Plane message should include section extension 10 with numPortc equal to what was received on the M-Plane at startup. The eAxC ID should be the group eAxC ID also received from the M-Plane. Run the test four times using: Test Case #1 (beamGroupType = 00b, Common Beam): All layers should have the same beam ID. The signal sent by the source should correspond to the same beam ID. It is expected that the source is connected to at least two port groups to ensure the same beam is being used. Test Case #2 (beamGroupType = 01b, beam matrix indication): All layers should have consecutive beam IDs starting with the beam ID in the C-Plane message. The signal sent by the source should correspond to the consecutive beam IDs. It is expected that the source is connected to at least two port groups to ensure the consecutive beams are being used. Test Case #3 (beamGroupType = 10b, beam vector listing): All layers will be assigned beam IDs based on the list of beam IDs contained in the section extension. The number of beam IDs must be equal to numPortc. The signal sent by the source should correspond to the signalled beam IDs. It is expected that the source is connected to at least two port groups to ensure that the correct beams are being used. Test case #4 (beamGroupType = 11b, beamId/ueId listing with associated port-list index): For this test the beamGroupType parameter should be set to 11b. With the usage of this beamGroupType, O- DU can pick arbitrary eAxC-ID value(s) from the M-Plane configured port-list and specify the associated beamId/ueId in the section extension. Hence, in this case the section extension should list “numPortc” value equal to the number of “portListIndex” values in the section extension. Each “portListIndex” indicates the index of an eAxC-ID in the port-list. The signal sent by the source should correspond to the signalled beam IDs associated with eAxC-ID indexed by specified “portListIndex”. It is expected that the source is connected to at least two port groups to ensure that the correct beams are being used.
- Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul Messages
- Launch test to play the C-Plane message and trigger the source to play the RF signal on a frame boundary.
Respect all timing windows.
- Signal the signal source that C-Plane messages have been sent to allow it to start sending RF. Respect all
timing windows.
- Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the Antenna port
- Extract IQ information
- Extract Payload
- Compare payload binary sequences
D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The test frame received by the signal analyser must contain the same PN23 signals that were sent in the U- Plane. The beamweights or magnitude and phase relation at the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) of the test signal that achieves the best performance (i.e. highest EVM, power, SNR, etc.) should match the manufacturer’s declaration of the beam under test. If this is also true, the test passes.

##### 3.2.3.1.14 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended 3GPP DL – Resource allocation –
Coupling C and U plane via Frequency and Time A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can accurately interpret C-Plane resource allocation messages, transfer U- Plane data into the correct resource blocks and transmit this data accurately in the downlink when the radio reports it supports the option feature of coupling C and U plane messages via frequency and time. This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required). The test will be conducted therefore there will be no channel distortion or interference. It is mandatory the radio pass this test if it reports it supports coupling C and U plane via time and frequency. Using a standard 3GPP NR-FR1-TM1.1 test frame for FDD the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink the standard NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal. This signal is shown below in Figure 3.2.3.1-14. This test frame consists of a PDCCH in the first two symbols of every slot consisting of 3 PRBs. All the remaining PRBs in the frame consist of Physical Downlink Shared Channel data. This test requires non-zero data (PN23 Sequence) to populate all allocated resource blocks. This configuration corresponds to stock data section A in all symbols that do not contain PDCCH channels. B. Test Entrance Criteria The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in section NR-FR1- TM1.1. It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. Connect the signal analyser to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal. This test is only applicable if the radio reports it supports coupling C and U plane via time and frequency. b. Procedure Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator. Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal. Every symbol should be described by a single section (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. The data in the sections must be a PN23 sequence using an initial seed of all ones. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame. In this test the C-Plane messages will contain valid values in the following fields:
- EAxC ID
- Datadirection bit (Downlink)
- Frame ID, subframeID, slotID, startsymbolID, and NumSymbol
- SectionID must have a value 4095
- SymInc, rb reMask and section extension #6 are not used in this test
The U-Plane messages generated by the TER must match those values used in the C-Plane corresponding to the section described in the C-plane but the value of sectionID will be 4095. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The signal measured by the signal analyser should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 2. The test frame received by the signal analyser should be the same as the signal described above. If it contains all the same PRB assignments and data, the test passes.

##### 3.2.3.1.15 UC-Plane O-RU Base Class FDD Test UL – Coupling C and U plane via time and frequency
A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can meet the most basic uplink requirements for O-RAN fronthaul correctly interpreting C-Plane messages and correctly constructing uplink U-Plane messages from an RF signal when the radio reports it supports C and U plane coupling via time and frequency. The test validates that correct uplink operation of the O-RU using 3GPP Reference Sensitivity level definition (Clause 7.2 ETSI TS 138.141-1) of the Conducted Receiver Characteristic Test (clause 7 ETSI TS 138.141) and power Levels at least 30 dB above Reference Sensitivity power Level described in ETSI TS 138.141-1 Table 7.2.5-1. This is to improve the likelihood that all data will be received by the radio correctly since we are not interested in testing receiver sensitivity but only the O-RAN protocol compliance. This signal is described by Table A.1-1 in ETSI TS 138.141-1 and is referred to as G-FR1-A1-5 with the power increased to up to 30 dB above that described in Table 7.2.5-1. Under those conditions, a 3GPP compliant O-RU should deliver uplink U-Plane information that matches the uplink signal. The TER (Test Equipment, O-RU) generates an uplink signal on the antenna connector or TAB connector, together with the corresponding C-Plane messages on the Fronthaul interface. The TER will capture the U-Plane messages generated by the DUT and validate whether the payload matches the uplink signal. It applies to the O-RAN CUS Specification [2]:
- Clause 7.4
- Clause 8.3.2
- Clause 8.3.3
B. Test Entrance Criteria The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.1 of this document. The O-RU must indicate it supports coupling C and U plane via time and frequency. The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in ETSI TS 138.141-1 clause G-FR1-A1-5. It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors. Note this signal may be changed to any of the 3GPP sensitivity test signals in Table A.1-1 in ETSI TS 138.141-1 if the radio does not support the numerology and bandwidth used in this test. The test signal described in this clause will be used if the radio supports that numerology and bandwidth. C. Test Methodology Leverage from the well-known payload (PN23 sequence) of the uplink signal to compare it with the payload of the signal communicated on the O-RAN interface. The IQ information is extracted from the U-Plane message and demodulated to retrieve payload. a: Initial Conditions Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M- Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna port and configure the source to transmit the required 3GPP test signal upon receiving a trigger signal from the CUSM-E. The signal source power level should be adjusted to at least 30 dB above the setting used in the 3GPP receiver sensitivity test. b: Procedure
- Load uplink test waveform (G-FR1-A1-5 : SCS30k_51RB) on the RF signal source
- Configure signal source to play test waveforms on 10ms frame boundaries starting when it receives a trigger
signal from the O-DU emulator that C-Plane messages have been sent.
- Load C-Plane message sequence on Test Equipment O-RU (TER) C-Plane messages will contain valid
values in the following fields:
- EAxC ID
- Datadirection bit (Uplink)
- Frame ID, subframeID, slotID, startsymbolID, and NumSymbol
- SectionID must have a value 4095
- SymInc, rb reMask and section extension #6 are not used in this test
- Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul Messages
- Launch test to play the RF uplink frame after the C-Plane messages have been sent honouring timing
windows
- Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the Antenna port
- TER will arrange U-Plane messages according to time and frequency
- Extract IQ information
- Extract Payload
- Compare payload binary sequences
D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The verdict is “Test pass” if the payload binary sequences match between the uplink test frame sent to the DUT and the received U-Plane data from the DUT 2. If any of the test conditions are not true, the verdict for the whole test is "Fail"

##### 3.2.3.1.16 UC- Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended 3GPP DL – Resource allocation –
Section Description Priorities A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can accurately interpret C-Plane resource allocation messages, transfer U-Plane data into the correct resource blocks and transmit this data accurately in the downlink when the radio reports it supports the option feature of coupling C and U plane messages via frequency and time and Section Description Priorities. This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required). The test will be conducted therefore there will be no channel distortion or interference. It is mandatory the radio pass this test if it reports it supports coupling C and U plane via time and frequency. Note, there are two versions of this feature: coupling C and U plane messages via frequency and time and Section Description Priorities and coupling C and U plane messages via frequency and time and Section Description Priorities (optimized). This test requires both tests to be performed if the radio supports both methods otherwise only one test is to be performed if the radio only supports one of these methods. These methods are listed under test methodology below. Using a standard 3GPP NR-FR1-TM1.1 test frame for FDD the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink the standard NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal with exceptions noted in the test procedure. This signal is shown below in Figure 3.2.3.1-16 . This test frame consists of a PDCCH in the first two symbols of every slot consisting of 3 PRBs. All the remaining PRBs in the frame consist of Physical Downlink Shared Channel data. This test requires non-zero data (PN23 Sequence) to populate all allocated resource blocks. This configuration corresponds to stock data section A in all symbols that do not contain PDCCH channels. B. Test Entrance Criteria The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in clause NR-FR1- TM1.1. It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. Connect the signal analyser to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal. This test is only applicable if the radio reports it supports coupling C and U plane via time and frequency and Section Description Priority (including the optimized version). b. Procedure for Coupling C and U plane messages via frequency and time with section priorities Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above and below in the O-DU emulator. Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal. Every symbol should be described by a single section (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. The data in the sections must be a PN23 sequence using an initial seed of all ones. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame. # Section priority symbolMask start numPrbc reMask rbgMask beamId numSymbol Note ext 6 Prbc yes +1 00000000000100 0 192 010001000100 0xFFFFC00 1 1 CSI reference signal (CSI-RS) yes +1 00100000000000 0 192 010001000100 0xFFFFC00 2 1 CSI reference signal (CSI-RS) no 0 11111000000000 0 273 111111111111 N/A 100 5 UE1 Not used in this section without section extension 6. Just shown for information yes 0 00000000001100 15 32 111111111111 0x6000000 200 2 UE2 no 0 00000111110000 31 48 111111111111 N/A 300 5 UE3 Not used in this section without section extension 6. Just shown for information no 0 00000000000011 10 2 111111111111 N/A 3 2 Special channel Not used in this section without section extension 6. Just shown for information In this test the section configuration will be as shown in Table 3.2.3-2 above. The 6 sections will comprise one slot and this slot will be repeated continuously to synchronize the TER signal analyser. The six sections will be sent on one C-Plane message using C and U plane coupling via time and frequency. The configuration above follows the example given in the CUSM specification. The section numbers in the above Table do not represent SectionID numbers but individual sections. Sections #1 and #2 describe hypothetical CSI-RS signals sent in symbols #2 and #11 in each slot. These signals have sub-carriers masked by reMask. The CSI-RS signals generation follows ETSI TS 138.211 V16.2.0 (or after), clause 7.4.1.5 with nID = 0, row 1, N=1 and L=1. These sections use section extension 6 and contain a higher priority than all other sections. Section #3 describes PN23 data sent to hypothetical UE #1 it overlaps REs in sections #1 and #2 but has a lower priority so sections #1 and #2 are valid. Since section #3 has contiguous symbols section extension 6 is not needed. Section #4 is for hypothetical UE #2. It shares symbol 2 with the CSI-RS signal in Section #1. Since the symbols are not contiguous, it uses section extension 6 but the priority is set to the default 0. Section #5 is for hypothetical UE #3 and uses a contiguous set of symbols so section extension 6 is not needed. It does not overlap any other signals. This section is optional because it does not test Section Description Priority. Section #6 is a hypothetical special channel using two symbols and does not require section extension 6. This section is also optional. U-Plane messages will contain:
- CSI-RS signals as described by section #1 for symbol #2
- CSI-RS signals as described by section #2 for symbol #11
- A new PN23 sequence in each of the last 5 symbols as described in section #3. Note that for
symbol #11 the PN sequence will be pierced by the CSI-RS signals.
- A new PN23 sequence for symbol #2 as described by section #4 as well as a new PN sequence for
symbol #3. These sequences are only 32 PRBs long and start in PRB 15. The sequence in symbol #2 will be pierced by CSI-RS signals.
- The user data for sections number #5 and #6 are standard PN23 sequences only for these symbols
and PRBs described in the Table above. c. Procedure for Coupling C and U plane messages via frequency and time with section priorities (optimized) This test will be identical to the above test with the following exceptions:
- There will be two C-Plane messages describing the downlink signal to be sent.
- The first two sections listed in the Table above (those with higher priorities) will be repeated in both
C-Plane messages and will have a section ID equal to a value between 0 and “max-highest-priority- sections-per-slot” as sent on the M-Plane.
- The other sections will be divided between the two C-Plane messages and not repeated.
- The repeated C-plane message will have the “repetition” bit set to one.
D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The signal measured by the signal analyser should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 2. The test frame received by the signal analyser should be the same PRB assignment and data as the signal described above. 3. The beamweights or magnitude and phase relation at the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) of the test signal that achieves the highest performance (i.e. best EVM, power, SNR, etc.) should match with the manufacturer’s declaration of the beam under test that has been assigned to each section described above. The procedure for this beamforming test is the same as test 3.2.3.2.3 (UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Predefined-beam Beamforming). This result is applicable for either or both forms of this test.

##### 3.2.3.1.17 (VOID)

##### 3.2.3.1.18 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using Non-contiguous PRB Allocation
Section Extension 12 3GPP DL – Resource Allocation A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can correctly decode and interpret C-Plane and U-Plane messages putting resource block in the correct place in the transmitted signal using the extension type 12. In this test stock data section definition C will be used to exercise the non-contiguous RB allocation, all 273 PRBs (or the maximum number of PRBs per symbol for the highest numerology the radio supports) will be used in this test. Using a standard 3GPP NR-FR1-TM1.1 test frame for FDD the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink the standard NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal with the modifications described below (supporting non-contiguous PRB allocation). The standard 3GPP NR-FR1-TM1.1 is shown in Figure 3.2.3.1-17 below: This generic NR-FR1-TM1.1 test frame consists of a PDCCH in the first two symbols of every slot consisting of 3 PRBs. All the remaining PRBs in the frame consist of Physical Downlink Shared Channel data. This test requires non-zero data to populate all allocated resource blocks. This data will be a PN23 sequence with a seed value of all ones as described below. This test will utilize stock data section definition C described above with the following exception. This data section will include user data in the first RB group, the second group will be blank and the remainder of the RBGs contain user data. This stock data section will be repeated over two symbols to test the SymMask parameter. B. Test Entrance Criteria The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.1 of this document. The default test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in clause NR-FR1-TM1.1. It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors. The Radio must support the extension type 12 as notified by the M-Plane. The signal analyser must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. Connect the signal analyser to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal. b. Procedure For this test only symbols number 6 and 7 will be used in each slot. Other symbols may contain data including reference signals to ensure test equipment can synchronize with the signal. The starting PRB will be zero and number of PRBs will be chosen from one or more columns in Table 3.2.3-4 below. The resource block group size will be 16 based on ETSI TS 138.214 Table 5.1.2.2.1-1 as shown in Table 3.2.3-4 using configuration 2. Bandwidth Part Size Configuration 1 Configuration 2

# 37 – 72 4 8

# 73 – 144 8 16

# 145 – 275 16 16
Using the calculations in O-RAN CUS Specification [2], clause 7.7.6, for the test waveform described above, the ID of the last RBG will be 17, f(0) will be 16, f(n) will be 16 and f(lastRbgID) will be 1 (17 total RBGs). StartPrbc will be zero and numPrbc will be 273. If the radio does not support this numerology the following table will apply. The number of PRBs correspond to Table 3.2.3-5: # PRBs per Symbol (11-79) max

# 24 25 32 50 51 52 65 66 79
PRB/sym numPRBc 11 24 25 32 50 51 52 65 66 79 rbgSize 4 4 4 4 8 8 8 8 8 16 lastRbgID 2 5 6 7 6 6 6 8 8 4 f(0) 4 4 4 4 8 8 8 8 8 16 f(n) 4 4 4 4 8 8 8 8 8 16 F(lastRbgID) 3 4 1 4 2 3 4 1 2 15 # PRBs per Symbol (100-273) max 100 106 107 132 133 135 162 217 270 273 PRB/sym numPRBc 100 106 107 132 133 135 162 217 270 273 rbgSize 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 lastRbgID 6 6 6 8 8 8 10 13 16 17 f(0) 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 f(n) 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 F(lastRbgID) 4 10 11 4 5 7 2 9 14 1 Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator. Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal. Every symbol should be described by a single type 1 section (DL-SCH and DCI) except symbols #6 and #7 which will be used for the section extension 12 test. The data in symbol #6 should be a new PN23 sequence starting in the first PRB and continuing to PRB 273 (RBG number 17). Symbol #7 should be identical to symbol #6. The symMask value should be set to 00000011000000b. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. The parameters for the default test signal are shown below: The O-DU emulator will build a U-Plane message containing the PN23 IQ data for the first 16 PRBs (RBG 0), this message will have the section ID used in the C-Plane message described above. Another U-Plane message will be created using the same section ID but with the PN23 data for RBGs 2-17 in it. The same U-Plane messages will be used for symbol #7. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The signal measured by the signal analyser should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 2. The test frame received by the signal analyser should only contain the same PN23 signals that were sent in the U-Plane, that is the PN23 sequence in the first 16 PRBs, nothing in the next 16 PRBs and the remainder of the PN23 sequence in RBGs 2-17, or the pattern appropriate for the numerology if a different numerology is chosen as noted above.

##### 3.2.3.1.19 UC Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using Non-contiguous PRB Allocation
Section Extension 12 3GPP UL – Resource Allocation A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to validate the capability of interpreting the section extension 12, non-contiguous PRB allocation to the basic uplink test. Validate correct uplink operation of the O-RU using 3GPP Reference Sensitivity level definition (Section 7.2 ETSI TS 138.141-1) of the Conducted Receiver Characteristic Test (clause 7 ETSI TS 138.141) and power Levels at least 30 dB above Reference Sensitivity power Level described in ETSI TS 138.141-1 Table 7.2.5-1. This is to improve the likelihood that all data will be received by the radio correctly since we are not interested in testing receiver sensitivity but only the O-RAN protocol compliance. C-Plane messages will contain 2 symbols with the same set of non-contiguous PRBs referenced to test both the symMask and the offStartPrb parameters. Using an RF source, the test equipment will generate a 3GPP test signal as shown in Figure 3.2.3.1-18 above. The radio will demodulate and decode this signal and send frequency domain IQ to the O-DU-Emulator as instructed by the O-DU-emulator using uplink C-Plane messages containing section extension 12. Note this signal has 20 slots with all symbols populated with only uplink shared data in the only first 48 RBs. The symbols are populated with PN23 data. The TER (Test Equipment, O-RU) generates an uplink signal on the antenna connector or TAB connector, together with the corresponding C-Plane messages on the Fronthaul interface. The TER will capture the U-Plane messages generated by the DUT and validate if the payload matches with the uplink signal. It applies to the O-RAN CUS Specification [2]:
- Clause 7.4
- Clause 8.3.2
- Clause 8.3.3
B. Test Entrance Criteria The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.1 of this document. The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in section ETSI TS 138.141-1 section G-FR1-A1-5. It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors. The radio must report that it supports section extension type 12, non-contiguous PRB allocations. Note this signal may be changed to any of the 3GPP sensitivity test signals in Table A.1-1 in ETSI TS 138.141-1 if the radio does not support the numerology and bandwidth used in this test. The test signal described in this section will be used if the radio supports that numerology and bandwidth. C. Test Methodology Leverage from the well-known payload (Pseudo Random sequence) of the uplink signal to compare it with the payload of the signal communicated on the O-RAN interface. The IQ information is extracted from the U-Plane message and demodulated to retrieve payload. a. Initial Conditions Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M- Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna port and configure the source to transmit the required 3GPP test signal upon receiving a trigger signal from the CUSM-E. The signal source power level should be adjusted to at least 30 dB above the setting used in the 3GPP receiver sensitivity test. b. Procedure
- Load uplink test waveform (G-FR1-A1-5 : SCS130k_51RB) on the RF signal source. Note this signal
should contain a new PN23 sequence as user data in PRBs 0 through 50 for symbols 6 and 7. The remainder of the test waveform is as described in 3GPP.
- Configure signal source to play test waveforms on 10ms frame boundaries starting when it receives a trigger
signal from the O-DU emulator that C-Plane messages have been sent.
- Load C-Plane message sequence on Test Equipment O-RU (TER) – Use the O-DU emulator control
interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal. For this test symbols number 6 and 7 will be used in each slot. The starting PRB will be zero and number of used PRBs will be 48. The resource block group size will be 16. Using the calculations in O-RAN CUS Specification [2] clause 7.7.6, the ID of the last RBG will be 17, f(0) will be 16, f(n) will be 16 and f(lastRbgID) will be 1. Note, if the radio does not support this numerology a suitable replacement can be selected from the Table below: # PRBs per Symbol (11-79) max

# 24 25 32 50 51 52 65 66 79
PRB/sym numPRBc 11 24 25 32 50 51 52 65 66 79 rbgSize 4 4 4 4 8 8 8 8 8 16 lastRbgID 2 5 6 7 6 6 6 8 8 4 f(0) 4 4 4 4 8 8 8 8 8 16 f(n) 4 4 4 4 8 8 8 8 8 16 F(lastRbgID) 3 4 1 4 2 3 4 1 2 15 # PRBs per Symbol (100-273) max 100 106 107 132 133 135 162 217 270 273 PRB/sym numPRBc 100 106 107 132 133 135 162 217 270 273 rbgSize 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 lastRbgID 6 6 6 8 8 8 10 13 16 17 f(0) 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 f(n) 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 F(lastRbgID) 4 10 11 4 5 7 2 9 14 1
- A single section ID will describe the non-contiguous resource allocation using section extension 12. The
parameters to use for the example wave form are shown below:
- Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul Messages
- Launch test to play the C-Plane messages and trigger the source to play the RF signal on a frame boundary.
- Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the Antenna port
- Extract IQ information
- Extract Payload
- Compare payload binary sequences
D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The verdict is “Test pass” if the test frame received by the signal analyser contains the same PN23 signals that were sent in the U-Plane, that is the PN23 sequence in the first 16 PRBs, nothing in the next 16 PRBs and the remainder of the PN23 sequence in RBG 2 (Next 16 PRBs). 2. If any of the test conditions is not true, the verdict for the whole test is "Fail"

##### 3.2.3.1.20 UC Plane O-RU Base Class FDD Test UL – Static SRS allocation
A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the O-RU can support static SRS configuration through the M-Plane. This is an uplink only test so there is no corresponding downlink test for FDD. The O-RU must report through the M- Plane that it supports static configuration of SRS. The test will have the CUSM emulator configure the O-RU, through the M-Plane, with a section of time/frequency resources reserved for static uplink SRS. The signal source will be programmed to send simulated SRS signals in a subset of those resources. The O-RU should receive this SRS signals and pass them through to the CUSM emulator using U-Plane messages. Note, there will be no C-Plane messages sent from the CUSM emulator and the O-RU. The signal generator will signal power levels at least 30 dB above Reference Sensitivity power Level described in TS 138.141-1 Table 7.2.5-1. This is to improve the likelihood that all data will be received by the radio correctly since we are not interested in testing receiver sensitivity but only the O-RAN protocol compliance. The placement of the time frequency resources is not specified in this test so it may be placed anywhere in the frame. The TER (Test Equipment, O-RU) generates an uplink SRS signal on the antenna connector or TAB connector. The TER will capture the U-Plane messages generated by the DUT and validate whether the payload matches the uplink signal as well as beam characteristics. The metric used to validate that the signal received by the CUSM emulator matches the signal sent by the signal generator will be EVM as described in Annex H.7 of ETSI TS 138.141. While some 3GPP test documents (e.g. ETSI TS 138.521 clause 6.4.2.1.3) suggest treating the EVM requirements for physical Zadoff-Chu sequences such as PRACH the same as QPSK for EVM requirements, this document will decrease the required EVM to the level specified for 64 QAM. The purpose of this is to ensure that there is no chance of false positives where a random, mistaken signal sent by the O-RU closely mimics the test signal used by the TER. Since there are no impairments made to the uplink SRS signal this should be well within the capabilities of the O-RU. B. Test Entrance Criteria The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.1 of this document. The O-RU must indicate it supports static SRS allocation. The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in ETSI TS 138.141-1 section G-FR1-A1-5. It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors. Note this signal may be changed to any of the 3GPP sensitivity test signals in Table A.1-1 in ETSI TS 138.141-1 if the radio does not support the numerology and bandwidth used in this test. The test signal described in this clause will be used if the radio supports that numerology and bandwidth. C. Test Methodology a: Initial Conditions Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M- Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna port and configure the source to transmit the required SRS test signal upon receiving a trigger signal from the CUSM-E. The signal source power level should be adjusted to at least 30 dB above the setting used in the 3GPP receiver sensitivity test. Implicit in this Initial set up is statically configuring O-RU with a section of time/frequency resources for static SRS signals. b: Procedure
- Build an SRS signal in the signal generator that fits in the preconfigured time frequency resources set in the
initial configuration.
- Load the waveform into the signal source:
- Configure signal source to play test waveforms on 10ms frame boundaries starting when it receives a trigger
signal from the O-DU emulator that signals the start of a frame boundary.
- Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul Messages
- Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the Antenna port
connected
- TER will arrange U-Plane messages according to time and frequency
- Start SRS waveform generation on the signal generator. Ensure the test frame is repeated enough times to
generate a statistically significant number of SRS occasions. That is at least 10 occasions.
- Extract IQ information
- Calculate EVM of the SRS signal received by the CUSM emulator to the ideal signal generated by the
signal source. Use the method described in ETSI TS 138.141 Annex H.7 to perform the calculation. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The verdict is “Test pass” if the calculated EVM is less than 8% as median EVM measured over the minimum number of SRS occasions of at least 10 occasions. 2. If any of the test conditions are not true, the verdict for the whole test is "Fail"

##### 3.2.3.1.21 UC Plane O-RU Base Class FDD Test UL – Static PRACH allocation
A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the O-RU can support static PRACH configuration through the M-Plane. This is an uplink only test so there is no corresponding downlink test for FDD. The O-RU must report through the M- Plane capabilities that it supports static configuration of PRACH. The concept is to repeat test 3.2.3.8.1 (5GNR PRACH test) without sending any C-Plane type 3 messages and configuring the O-RU using only the M-Plane. TER will setup the signal generator with a PRACH test waveform according to ETSI TS 138.211 clause 6.3.3, ETSI TS 138.141-1 clause 8.4.1 and A.6. The test waveform will contain the same preamble ID for every occasion repeated by following the timing offset scheme specified in the figures 8.4.1.4.2-2 or 8.4.1.4.2-3 ETSI TS 138.141-1 depending on the selected PRACH format. This is an example for FR1 – SCS=30 kHz – BW=100MHz – Format A3, on each occasion the time offset of the same preamble index (selected according to Table A.6-1 ETSI TS 138.141.1) is incremented by 100nsec starting from 0 up to 800nsec (9 occasions per frame). Each PRACH occasion is at the beginning of the first nine used sub- frames. The scheme is repeated every frame. According to the PRACH waveform setting, the TER will generate a corresponding sequence of M-Plane messages which include the following parameters (According to the M-Plane specification): grouping static-prach-configuration
- leaf pattern-period - "Period after which static PRACH patterns are repeated. Unit: number of
frames."
- leaf guard-tone-low-re - "Number of REs occupied by the low guard tones."
- leaf num-prach-re - "Number of contiguous PRBs per data section description“
- leaf guard-tone-high-re - "Number of REs occupied by the high guard tones.“
- leaf sequence-duration - "Duration of single sequence of the PRACH. Sequence may be considered as
'single PRACH symbol’”
- list prach-patterns - key prach-pattern-id - "Provides a PRACH pattern. Each record in the list
represents a single PRACH occasion. Number of list entries cannot exceed max-prach-patterns“
- leaf prach-pattern-id - "Supplementary parameter acting as key for prach-pattern list.“
- leaf number-of-repetitions - "This parameter defines number of PRACH repetitions in
PRACH occasion, to which the section control is applicable
- leaf number-of-occasions - "This parameter informs how many consecutive PRACH
occasions is described by the PRACH Pattern”
- leaf re-offset – “Offset between the start of the lowest-frequency RE of the lowest frequency
PRB and the start of the lowest frequency RE belonging to the PRACH occasion. The re- offset is configured as number of PRACH REs.
- list occasion-parameters – “list of cp-lengths, gp-lengths and beam-ids applicable per each
PRACH occasion in PRACH pattern.”
> NOTE: the number of records in this list MUST be equal to value of parameter number-of-
occasions.
- leaf occasion-id - "Supplementary parameter acting as key in 'occasion-parameters'
list“
- leaf cp-length - "Cyclic prefix length. See CUS-Plane specification for detailed
description.“
- leaf gp-length - "Guard period length.“
- leaf beam-id - "This parameter defines the beam pattern to be applied to the U-
Plane data. beamId = 0 means no beamforming operation will be performed."
- leaf frame-number - "This parameter is an index inside the pattern-length, such that PRACH
occasion is happening for SFN which fulfils following equation: [SFN mod pattern-length = frame-id]“
- leaf sub-frame-id - "Identifier of sub-frame of the PRACH occasion. Value is interpreted in
the same way as subframeId field in a section description of a C-Plane message.“
- leaf time-offset - "This parameter defines the time-offset from the start of the sub-frame to
the start of the first Cyclic Prefix of PRACH pattern" By the corresponding U-Plane messages in the uplink direction, the TER will try to detect the presence of the corresponding preamble at the expected timing offset and calculate the probability of detection Pd according to the definition in TS38.141-1 clause 8.4.1.1. The signal will be exercised at only one O-RU port without adding any external AWGN power level or multipath fading profile and at a power level avoiding detection errors due to poor SNR (rule described in the sub-section C of this scenario class). The test will have the CUSM emulator configure the O-RU, through the M-Plane, with a section of time/frequency resources reserved for static uplink PRACH. The default is the PRACH configuration described in 3GPP above but the test may be conducted with changes if the radio does not support those exact configurations. The signal source will be programmed to send simulated PRACH signals in those resources. The O-RU should receive this PRACH signal and pass them through to the CUSM emulator using U-Plane messages. Note, there will be no C- Plane messages sent from the CUSM emulator and the O-RU. B. Test Entrance Criteria O-RU must have a conducted antenna port (FR1) or TAB connector. By the M-plane, TER will detect all the supported SCSs for PUSCH and PRACH, supported PRACH format, and carrier bandwidths by the O-RU. It is assumed that only one combination of the three above parameters supported by the O-RU is enough to validate the test. TER will choose the format either according to the PRACH Configuration Index in ETSI TS 138.211 clause 6.3.3 Table 6.3.3.2-2 and the available frequency resource, according to the manufacturer declaration item D.103 “PRACH format and SCS” in ETSI TS 138.141-1 or according to the format information obtained by the M-plane in case O-RU implements this feature. TER shall generate M-Plane messages conformant to the selected format. If more formats are claimed, only one shall be selected to reduce the test time, preference will be given to a format specified in Table A.6.1 ETSI TS 138.141. It is assumed that the O-RU manufacturer will support at least one in that Table. For the case of long preambles, it is assumed format 0 is always supported since this is the only one shown in the Table A.6-1 ETSI TS 138.141. C. Test Methodology a: Initial Conditions Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M- Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna port and configure the source to transmit the required PRACH test signal upon receiving a trigger signal from the CUSM-E. Implicit in this Initial set up is statically configuring O-RU with a section of time/frequency resources for static PRACH signals. b: Procedure
- Set signal generator power to at least 30 dB above the setting used in the 3GPP receiver sensitivity test
described in ETSI TS 138.141-1 clause 7.2.5.
- Set signal generator frequency offset to the central carrier frequency. PRACH will be mapped over
frequency according to msg1-FrequencyStart (nstart ) parameter equal to 0. PRACH format is set according RA to what TER has selected from the manufacturer declarations.
- Start PRACH waveform generation on the signal generator. Ensure the test frame is repeated enough times
to generate a statistically significant number of PRACH occasions. That is at least 10 occasions.
- TER will perform PRACH detection per each PRACH occasion in each frame sent and compare the result
with the expected preamble ID and the expected timing offset. Since the external AWGN and fading generator are not present the time error tolerance should be low, TER will use the time error tolerance in counter of successful detections is incremented at every matching. The probability of detection is given by the ratio between that counter and the number of the expected received PRACH occasions within the test time.
- Repeat the test procedure by setting msg1-FrequencyStart
(nstart ) parameter to the right edge of the RA configured carrier bandwidth in order to exercise a different frequency offset number D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. Test is pass if the probability of detection is 100% determined across the minimum amount of at least 10 occasions.

##### 3.2.3.1.22 UC Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using section extension 13 for frequency hopping UL – Resource Allocation
A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to validate the capability of the O-RU to correctly interpret section extension 13, frequency hopping, for the uplink. This test will validate correct uplink operation of the O-RU using 3GPP Reference Sensitivity level definition (clause7.2 ETSI TS 138.141-1) of the Conducted Receiver Characteristic Test (clause 7 ETSI TS 138.141) and power Levels at least 30 dB above Reference Sensitivity power Level described in ETSI TS 138.141-1 Table 7.2.5-1. This is to improve the likelihood that all data will be received by the radio correctly since we are not interested in testing receiver sensitivity but only the O-RAN protocol compliance. C-Plane message will reference symbols using section extension 13. Using an RF source, the test equipment will generate a 3GPP test signal as shown in Figure 3.2.3.1-20 above. The radio will demodulate and decode this signal and send frequency domain IQ to the O-DU-Emulator as instructed by the O-DU-emulator using uplink C-Plane messages containing section extension 13. Note this signal has 20 slots with all symbols populated with only uplink shared data in the only first 51 RBs. The symbols are populated with PN23 data. The TER (Test Equipment, O-RU) generates an uplink signal on the antenna connector or TAB connector, together with the corresponding C-Plane messages on the Fronthaul interface. The TER will capture the U-Plane messages generated by the DUT and validate if the payload matches with the uplink signal. It applies to the O-RAN CUS Specification [2]:
- Clause 7.4
- Clause 8.3.2
- Clause 8.3.3
B. Test Entrance Criteria The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.1 of this document. The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in ETSI TS 138.141-1 clause G-FR1-A1-5. It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors. The radio must report that it supports section extension type 13, frequency hopping. Note this signal may be changed to any of the 3GPP sensitivity test signals in Table A.1-1 in ETSI TS 138.141-1 if the radio does not support the numerology and bandwidth used in this test. The test signal described in this section will be used if the radio supports that numerology and bandwidth. C. Test Methodology Leverage from the well-known payload (Pseudo Random sequence) of the uplink signal to compare it with the payload of the signal communicated on the O-RAN interface. The IQ information is extracted from the U-Plane message and demodulated to retrieve payload. a. Initial Conditions Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M- Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna port and configure the source to transmit the required 3GPP test signal upon receiving a trigger signal from the CUSM-E. The signal source power level should be adjusted to at least 30 dB above the setting used in the 3GPP receiver sensitivity test. b. Procedure
- Load uplink test waveform (G-FR1-A1-5 : SCS130k_51RB) on the RF signal source. Note this signal
should contain a new PN23 sequence as user data in PRBs 0 through 50 for symbol 6 and PRBs 100 through 151 for symbol 7. This will be copied for all 20 slots. The remainder of the test waveform is as described in 3GPP.
- Configure signal source to play test waveforms on 10ms frame boundaries starting when it receives a trigger
signal from the O-DU emulator that C-Plane messages have been sent.
- Load a C-Plane message on Test Equipment O-RU (TER) – Use the O-DU emulator control interface to
build the appropriate C-Plane message that describes this uplink signal. This section should have startSymbolId = 6, numPrbc = 51, and section extension 13 attached. The section extension should have nextSymbolId = 7 and nextStartPrbc = 100.
- Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul Messages
- Launch test to play the C-Plane messages and trigger the source to play the RF signal on a frame boundary.
- Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the Antenna port
- Extract IQ information
- Extract Payload
- Compare payload binary sequences
D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The verdict is “Test pass” if the test frame received by the signal analyser contains two U-Plane messages for this section ID one containing the PN23 sequence for the first 51 PRBs in symbol 6 and PRBs 100 through 151 for symbol #7 containing the PN23 sequence sent by the signal source for those PRBs.

#### 3.2.3.2 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming (BFM)
This clause describes the beamforming conformance testing for O-RAN fronthaul interface. The tests do not aim to test the O-RU beamforming performance or capabilities but to test that the O-RU under test focuses the RF energy or sensitivity into a specific direction and with a specific granularity following the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) C-Plane messages. Unless stated otherwise in a test case, the following statements apply to all the test cases defined in this clause:
- It is based on conducted testing with a setup such as described in clause 2.1 and it only applies to O-RU DUTs
that have conducted antenna ports or TAB connectors.
- It applies to Category A and Category B O-RU DUTs.
- It applies to LTE and/or 5G New Radio O-RU DUTs. In both cases, precoding is not required in any test case.
- If O-RU DUT supports Analog Beamforming (i.e. time domain beamforming), all the U-Plane test frames are
defined by segmenting the Stock Test A: 1 section per symbol. The definition of this Stock Test A can be found in Figure 3.2.1.1-2 and the description accompanying this figure. Each slot shall include multiple sections (one per symbol within the slot) and only one beam at a time (i.e. one beamId at a time) and therefore only one beam can be tested per slot.
- If O-RU DUT supports Digital Beamforming (i.e. frequency domain beamforming), all the U-Plane test frames
are defined by segmenting the Stock Test B: 2 sections per symbol definition as shown in Figure 3.2.1.1-2. Each slot shall include multiple sections (two per symbol within the slot) and only one beam per section at a time (i.e. one beamId at a time) and therefore up to two different beams can be tested per slot.
- If O-RU DUT supports multiple polarizations, it is up to the TER to determine if the testing is carried out for
each polarization separately or multiple polarizations at the same time. In any case, it is important to guarantee that the correct eAxC_ID for the correct polarization (or polarizations) is exercised.
- For O-RU DUT that support LTE:
o Downlink tests will use a standard 3GPP E-TM1.1 test frame for FDD (Clause 6.1.1.1 ETSI TS 136.141- 1) with 20MHz bandwidth (100 RB) as shown in Figure 3.2.3.2-1. If 20MHz is not supported by the O-RU DUT, then it will use the highest bandwidth supported by the O- RU DUT. o Uplink test will use a standard 3GPP UL RMC Configuration definition for FDD (TS36.521-1) and power levels 30dB above Reference Sensitivity power level with 10MHz bandwidth (100 RB) as shown in Figure 3.2.3.2-2. If 20MHz is not supported by the O-RU DUT, then it will use the highest bandwidth supported by the O- RU DUT.
- For O-RU DUT that support 5G NR:
o Downlink tests will use a standard 3GPP NR-FR1-TM1.1 test frame for FDD in [19] (clause 4.9.2 TS138.141-1) of the Conducted Transmitter Characteristic Test (clause 6 TS138.141-1) as described in clause 3.2.1.1. The test numerology will be preferably 30kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth. If not supported, then it will use any other supported subcarrier spacing and the highest bandwidth of the O-RU DUT. o Uplink tests will use a standard 3GPP Reference Sensitivity level definition (clause 7.2 and Annex A TS138.141-1) of the Conducted Receiver Characteristic Test (clause 7 ETSI TS 138.141) and power levels 30dB above Reference Sensitivity power level as described in clause 3.2.1.1. The test numerology will be preferably 30kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth, if supported. Otherwise, it will use any available subcarrier space and the highest bandwidth supported by the O-RU DUT.
- The O-RU DUT:
o supports the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.1 of this document. o has installed current release of shipping software. o has at least two conducted antenna ports (or TAB connectors) to be connected to a signal analyser. Likewise, it must have at least two conducted antenna ports or TAB connectors to be connected to a signal generator. o be fully calibrated up to the antenna ports or (TAB connectors) (if needed). It is expected to be calibrated by O-RU vendor prior to testing.
- The TER:
o is capable of carrying out any signal processing required to generate and demodulate 3GPP compliant waveforms. o is able to calculate or extract beamweights (or magnitude and phase relations) between antenna ports or TAB connectors. Alternatively, and if the O-RU DUT manufacturer provides the list of beam directions supported by the O-RU DUT, TER might calculate or extract the beam direction instead of the beamweights. o is able to generate and deliver signals with the required beamweights (or magnitude and phase relations) at the antenna ports or TAB connectors. o is fully calibrated up to the interfaces where is connected to the O-RU DUT antenna ports (or TAB connectors). For that, a known test signal might be either injected by the TER into the O-RU DUT, or internally generated by the O-RU DUT, and the O-RU DUT must not apply any digital or analogue beamweights to the known test signal. One possible method to perform calibration uses injected C-Plane and U-Plane signals from TER into the O-RU and using C-Plane messages with beamID=0.
- The O-DU emulator of the TER:
o is capable of generating and sending U-Plane messages containing 3GPP test frames following the corresponding Stock sectioning defined above, as well as be capable of capturing U-Plane messages and extracting 3GPP test frames (i.e. IQ data) from the captured U-Plane messages. o is capable of generating the C-Plane messages for, receiving, extracting and demodulating the 3GPP test frames following the corresponding Stock sectioning defined above.
- For DMRS-BF tests, the TER setup modifications are:
o RF Signal Generator / System which can be a combination of test equipment, or an integrated one, that provides all the testing capabilities needed: ▪ RF Signal Generator capable of generating wanted signals (3GPP compliant SU-MIMO and MU- MIMO signals). ▪ RF Signal Generator capable of generating Additive white Gaussian Noise and Interference signals. It can be a single device or multiple devices. ▪ Beamformer to apply beam weights to each of the signals under tests o CUSM-Plane emulator with expanded capability: ▪ is able to operate with and without reference Channel Estimation (CE) and Equalization (EQ) over the received signal from DUT (Uplink direction),
> NOTE: The definition of the reference algorithms used for Channel Estimation and Equalization in the
TER are not defined in the present document. ▪ is capable of measuring and reporting EVM measurements after CE and EQ if receiving unequalised IQ data (when testing O-RU DUT with DMRS-BF-NEQ), or directly from received equalized IQ data (when testing O-RU DUT with DMRS-BF-EQ), ▪ is capable of measuring and reporting BER and/or BLER measurements of the received signal from DUT (Uplink direction) after demapping and decoding,
> NOTE: The definition of the reference algorithms used for demapping and decoding in the TER are not
defined in the present document. ▪ is capable of parsing ST9 and ST10 messages to extract SINR and RRM measurements.
- The TER might have less testing ports than the O-RU DUT conducted antenna ports (or TAB connectors) if
testing is carried out sequentially; or as many antenna ports as the number of conducted antenna ports (or TAB connectors) under test if testing is carried out simultaneously.
- It is up to the TER on how to extract the beamweights (or magnitude and phase relation) between the
antenna ports or TAB connectors, or the beam direction / properties, in order to match it with the manufacturer’s declaration.
- The user payload will be generated as PN23 with a seed of all ones.
- It applies to the O-RAN CUS Specification [2]:
o Clause 7.4 o Clause 8.3.2 o Clause 8.3.3 o Clause 12 o Annex J

##### 3.2.3.2.1 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – No Beamforming
A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit a basic 3GPP test frame with no beamforming (beamId=0x000) and with one spatial stream (single eAxC). B. Test Entrance Criteria
- Manufacturers’ declaration that defines list of magnitude and phase relation (or beamweights) between
antenna ports or TAB connectors and/or beam directions with antenna array characteristics when O-RU DUT is operating with no beamforming. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions
- Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation
using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.
- Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna
ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.
- Connect the signal analyser to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the beam under
test and configure the analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.
- Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.
b. Procedure a. Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator. b. Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by either one or two sections (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. c. Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. d. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame. e. Extract either the beamweights, or magnitude and phase relation, or beam direction from the measured signal. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The signal measured by the signal analyser should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 2. The test frame received by the signal analyser should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data. 3. The signal relation (i.e. beamweights, or magnitude and phase relation) between antenna ports or TAB connectors, or the extracted beam direction, should match the expected relation, or beam direction, for the expected no beamforming within a tolerance defined by the manufacturer.

##### 3.2.3.2.2 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – No Beamforming
A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can receive a basic 3GPP test frame with no beamforming (beamId=0x000) and with one spatial stream (single eAxC). B. Test Entrance Criteria
- Manufacturers’ declaration that defines list of magnitude and phase relation (or beamweights) between antenna
ports or TAB connectors and/or beam directions with antenna array characteristics when O-RU DUT is operating with no beamforming. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions
- Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation
using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.
- Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna
ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.
- Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the beam under test
and configure the source with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and generate the test signal.
- Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.
b. Procedure a. Build an appropriate test signal described above in the signal source of the TER. b. Inject the test signal into the O-RU with the application of an initial set of beamweights, or equivalently magnitude and phase relation, between all the TER ports connected to the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) to emulate the phase and magnitude difference “seen” by the antenna elements under test. For example, initial beamweights could be set to be “all equal” (i.e. no beamforming). c. Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by either one or two sections (UL- SCH) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. d. Play the C plane messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. while also triggering the signal source. e. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the DUT, allow it to create and send the U plane messages to the O-DU and for the O-DU to demodulate, decode and extract the payload. f. Repeat the previous steps but now in step b apply a different set of beamweights or phase relation between all the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) when injecting the test signal into the O-RU. For example, repeating the process for a number of different beamweights will simulate the reception of the test signal from different beam directions. This allows to determine if the O-RU is really focusing the sensitivity to the correct beam direction. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The test frame received by the TER/O-DU should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data. 2. The beamweights or magnitude and phase relation at the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) of the test signal that achieves the highest performance (i.e. best EVM, power, SNR, etc.) should match with the manufacturer’s declaration of the phase relation expected for no beamforming.

##### 3.2.3.2.3 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Predefined-beam
Beamforming A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit a basic 3GPP test frame with predefined-beams beamforming (beamId≠0x000) and with one spatial stream (single eAxC). The transmitted beam direction is measured for each indexed beam required in this measurement, see below. The measured transmitted direction is compared to manufacturer-designated direction. Transmitted direction could be defined by the phase relation between the antenna ports or TAB connectors under test, or directly by extracting the beam direction. The elevation θ and azimuth Φ angles are defined as in [2] clause 12.4.2.2 The UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Predefined-beam Beamforming conformance test might include multiple tests that the O-RU must comply: The test should include the following beams: 1. A beam with 0 degrees azimuth (Φ) and elevation (θ) angles. 2. A beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ). 3. A beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ). 4. A beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ). 5. A beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ). If the O-RU only supports one azimuth (Φ) or elevation angle (θ), fewer than 5 beam angles will be measured. B. Test Entrance Criteria
- Manufacturers’ defined list of beam indices and their associated magnitude and phase relation between antenna
ports or TAB connectors and/or beam directions with antenna array characteristics. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions
- Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using
M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.
- Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna
ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.
- Connect the signal analyser to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the beam under
test and configure the analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.
- Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.
b. Procedure a. Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator. b. Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by either one or two sections (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. c. Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. d. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame. e. Extract either the beamweights, or magnitude and phase relation, or beam direction from the measured signal. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The signal measured by the signal analyser should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 2. The test frame received by the signal analyser should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data. 3. The signal relation (i.e. beamweights, or magnitude and phase relation) between antenna ports or TAB connectors, or the extracted beam direction, should match the expected relation, or beam direction, corresponding to the beam under test within a tolerance defined by the manufacturer.

##### 3.2.3.2.4 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – Predefined-beam
Beamforming A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can receive a basic 3GPP test frame with predefined-beams beamforming (beamId≠0x000) and with one spatial stream (single eAxC). The same description and criteria for selecting the beams to be tested applies as in clause 3.2.3.2.3 applies, but instead it is related to the uplink direction. B. Test Entrance Criteria
- Manufacturers’ defined list of beam indices and their associated magnitude and phase relation between antenna
ports or TAB connectors and/or beam directions with antenna array characteristics. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions
- Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using
M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.
- Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna
ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.
- Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the beam under test
and configure the source with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and generate the test signal.
- Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.
b. Procedure a. Build an appropriate test signal described above in the signal source of the TER. b. Inject the test signal into the O-RU with the application of an initial set of beamweights, or equivalently magnitude and phase relation, between all the TER ports connected to the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) to emulate the phase and magnitude difference “seen” by the antenna elements under test. For example, initial beamweights could be set to be “all equal” (i.e. no beamforming). c. Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by either one or two sections (UL- SCH) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. d. Play the C plane messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. while also triggering the signal source. e. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the DUT, allow it to create and send the U plane messages to the O-DU and for the O-DU to demodulate, decode and extract the payload. f. Repeat the previous steps but now in step b apply a different set of beamweights or phase relation between all the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) when injecting the test signal into the O-RU. For example, repeating the process for a number of different beamweights will simulate the reception of the test signal from different beam directions. This allows to determine if the O-RU is really focusing the sensitivity to the correct beam direction. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The test frame received by the TER/O-DU should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data. 2. The beamweights or magnitude and phase relation at the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) of the test signal that achieves the highest performance (i.e. best EVM, power, SNR, etc.) should match with the manufacturer’s declaration of the beam under test.

##### 3.2.3.2.5 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Weight-based
Dynamic Beamforming A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit a basic 3GPP test frame with weight-based dynamic beamforming with one spatial stream (single eAxC). The transmitted beam direction is measured for each weighted beam required in this measurement, see below. The measured transmitted direction is compared to manufacturer-designated direction. Transmitted direction could be defined by the phase relation between the antenna ports or TAB connectors under test, or by directly extracting the beam direction. The elevation θ and azimuth Φ angles are defined as in [2] clause 12.4.2.2: The UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Weight-based Dynamic Beamforming conformance test should evaluate the following beams for the O-RU to comply: a. A weight-based beam with 0 degrees azimuth (Φ) and elevation (θ) angles. b. A weight-based beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ). c. A weight-based beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ). d. A weight-based beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ). e. A weight-based beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ). If the O-RU only supports one azimuth (Φ) or elevation angle (θ), fewer than 5 beam angles will be measured. The user/tester selects the bitwidth for the mantissa or scaler of the compression method applied to the beams. The UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Weight—based Dynamic Beamforming conformance test should also evaluate the following compression methods for each of the supported beams described above (a. to e.) for the O-RU to comply: a. No compression method applied to the beamforming weights. b. Block floating point compression method applied to the beamforming weights with the selected number of bit mantissa. c. Block scaling compression method applied to the beamforming weights with the selected number of bit scaler. d. μ-law compression method applied to the beamforming weights with the selected number of bit fixed width. e. Depending on what type of Beamspace compression the DUT supports, either Beamspace compression method applied to the beamforming weights with the selected number of bit scaler or Beamspace compression method applied to the beamforming weights with the selected number of bit mantissa. If the O-RU does not support all the compression methods described above, fewer than 5 compression methods will be measured. B. Test Entrance Criteria
- Manufacturers’ defined list of frequency domain (ϕ) and or time domain (θ) weights for each supported beam,
or alternatively, list of gain and phase relation, or complex beam weights, between antenna ports or TAB connectors for each supported beam. Also, the O-RU needs to report to the O-DU the antenna array characteristics. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions
- Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation
using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.
- Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna
ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.
- Connect the signal analyser to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the beam under
test and configure the analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.
- Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.
b. Procedure a. Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator. b. Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by one or two sections (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages, the sections in the first symbol of the slot will contain section extension extType=0x01 to convey the beam weights, it is not required that the next sections contain extension type 1 since the same beam IDs will not change along the slot. If O-RU does not support a field, then its value should be 0x0. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. c. Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. d. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame. e. Extract either the beamweights, or magnitude and phase relation, or beam direction from the measured signal. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The signal measured by the signal analyser should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 2. The test frame received by the signal analyser should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data. 3. The signal relation (i.e. beamweights, or magnitude and phase relation) between antenna ports or TAB connectors, or the extracted beam direction, should match the expected relation, or beam direction, corresponding to the beam under test within a tolerance defined by the manufacturer.

##### 3.2.3.2.6 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – Weight-based
Dynamic Beamforming A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can receive a basic 3GPP test frame with weight-based beamforming and with one spatial stream (single eAxC). The same description and criteria for selecting the beams to be tested applies as in clause 3.2.3.2.5 but applies to the uplink direction. B. Test Entrance Criteria
- Manufacturers’ defined list of frequency domain (ϕ) and or time domain (θ) weights for each supported beam,
or alternatively, list of gain and phase relation, or complex beam weights, between antenna ports or TAB connectors for each supported beam . Also, the O-RU needs to report to the O-DU the antenna array characteristics C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions
- Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation
using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.
- Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna
ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.
- Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the beam under test
and configure the source with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and generate the test signal.
- Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.
b. Procedure a. Build an appropriate test signal described above in the signal source of the TER. b. Inject the test signal into the O-RU with the application of an initial set of beamweights, or equivalently magnitude and phase relation, between all the TER ports connected to the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) to emulate the phase and magnitude difference “seen” by the antenna elements under test. For example, initial beamweights could be set to be “all equal” (i.e. no beamforming). c. Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by one or two sections (UL-SCH) using Section Type 1 messages, the sections in the first symbol of the slot will contain section extension extType=0x01 to convey the beam weights, it is not required that the next sections contain extension type 1 since the same beam IDs will not change along the slot. If O-RU does not support a field, then its value should be 0x0. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. d. Play the C plane messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. while also triggering the signal source. e. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the DUT, allow it to create and send the U plane messages to the O-DU and for the O-DU to demodulate, decode and extract the payload. f. Repeat the previous steps but now in step b apply a different set of beamweights or phase relation between all the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) when injecting the test signal into the O-RU. For example, repeating the process for a number of different beamweights will simulate the reception of the test signal from different beam directions. This allows to determine if the O-RU is really focusing the sensitivity to the correct beam direction. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The test frame received by the TER/O-DU should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data. 2. The beamweights or magnitude and phase relation at the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) of the test signal that achieves the highest performance (i.e. best EVM, power, SNR, etc.) should match with the manufacturer’s declaration of the beam under test.

##### 3.2.3.2.7 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Attribute-based
Dynamic Beamforming A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit a basic 3GPP test frame with attributed-based dynamic beamforming with one spatial stream (single eAxC). If the O-RU DUT supports Attribute based Dynamic Beamforming, this test is mandatory for the O-RU DUT to be O-RAN conformant. The transmitted beam direction and attributes are measured for each attributed beam required in this measurement, see below. The measured transmitted direction and attributes, i.e. pointing azimuth and elevation angles, beamwidths and sidelobe suppression, is compared to manufacturer-designated direction and attributes. Transmitted direction and beam attributes are defined by the magnitude and phase relation between the antenna ports or TAB connectors under test, or by directly extracting the beam properties. The elevation θ and azimuth Φ angles are defined as in [2] clause 12.4.2.2. The UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Attribute-based Dynamic Beamforming conformance test should evaluate the following beams for the O-RU to comply: a. An attribute-based beam with 0 degrees azimuth (Φ) and elevation (θ) angles with any beamwidth and sidelobe suppression supported by the O-RU under this beam direction. b. An attribute-based beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ) with the widest beamwidth and lowest sidelobe suppression supported for this specific beam direction. c. An attribute-based beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ) with the narrowest beamwidth and highest sidelobe suppression supported for this specific beam direction. d. An attribute-based beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ) with the widest beamwidth and lowest sidelobe suppression supported for this specific beam direction. e. An attribute-based beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ) with the narrowest beamwidth and highest sidelobe suppression supported for this specific beam direction. If the O-RU only supports one azimuth (Φ) or elevation angle (θ), fewer than 5 beam angles and attribute configurations will be measured. B. Test Entrance Criteria
- Manufacturers’ defined list of supported beam directions (azimuth ϕ and elevation θ angles) attributes that are
supported by the O-RU and their associated gain and phase relation, or complex weight, between antenna ports or TAB connectors and/or beam directions with antenna array characteristics. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions
- Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation
using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.
- Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna
ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.
- Connect the signal analyser to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the beam under
test and configure the analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.
- Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.
b. Procedure a. Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator. b. Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by one or two sections (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages, the sections in the first symbol of the slot will contain section extension extType=0x02 to convey the beam weights, it is not required that the next sections contain extension type 2 since the same beam IDs will not change along the slot. If O-RU does not support a field, then its value should be 0x0. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. c. Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. d. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame. e. Extract either the beamweights, or magnitude and phase relation, or beam properties from the measured signal. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The signal measured by the signal analyser should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 2. The test frame received by the signal analyser should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data. 3. The signal relation (i.e. beamweights, or magnitude and phase relation) between antenna ports or TAB connectors, or the extracted beam properties, should match the expected beam properties corresponding to the beam under test within a tolerance defined by the manufacturer.

##### 3.2.3.2.8 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – Attribute-based
Dynamic Beamforming A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can receive a basic 3GPP test frame with attribute-based beamforming with one spatial stream (single eAxC). Same description and criteria for selecting the beams to be tested applies as in clause 3.2.3.2.7 but considering uplink direction. B. Test Entrance Criteria
- Manufacturers’ defined list of supported beam directions (azimuth ϕ and elevation θ angles) attributes that are
supported by the O-RU and their associated gain and phase relation, or complex weight, between antenna ports or TAB connectors and/or beam directions with antenna array characteristics C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions
- Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using
M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.
- Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna
ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.
- Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the beam under test
and configure the source with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and generate the test signal.
- Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.
b. Procedure a. Build an appropriate test signal described above in the signal source of the TER. b. Inject the test signal into the O-RU with the application of an initial set of beamweights, or equivalently magnitude and phase relation, between all the TER ports connected to the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) to emulate the phase and magnitude difference “seen” by the antenna elements under test. For example, initial beamweights could be set to be “all equal” (i.e. no beamforming). c. Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by one or two sections (UL-SCH) using Section Type 1 messages, the sections in the first symbol of the slot will contain section extension extType=0x02 to convey the beam weights, it is not required that the next sections contain extension type 2 since the same beam IDs will not change along the slot. If O-RU does not support a field, then its value should be 0x0. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. d. Play the C plane messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. while also triggering the signal source. e. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the DUT, allow it to create and send the U plane messages to the O-DU and for the O-DU to demodulate, decode and extract the payload. f. Repeat the previous steps but now in step b apply a different set of beamweights or magnitude and phase relation between all the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) when injecting the test signal into the O-RU. For example, repeating the process for a number of different sets of beamweights will simulate the reception of the test signal from different beam directions. This allows to determine if the O-RU is really focusing the sensitivity to the correct beam properties. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The test frame received by the TER/O-DU should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data. 2. The beamweights or magnitude and phase relation at the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) of the test signal that achieves the highest performance (i.e. best EVM, power, SNR, etc.) should match with the manufacturer’s declaration of the beam under test.

##### 3.2.3.2.9 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Channel-Information- based Beamforming
A. Test Description and Applicability This Test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit a basic 3GPP test frame with channel-information-based beamforming with multiple spatial streams from multiple users (i.e. MU-MIMO). For Category A radios, the test is for each polarization separately and consequently either different or same channel models can be defined for each of the polarization. For Category B, same channel might be used for both polarizations and the test might measure each polarization separately. The transmitted beam direction is measured for each scenario required in this measurement. The measured transmitted direction is extracted from the decoded received signal in the TER. Transmitted direction is defined by properly receiving a data transmission between the O-RU and the target User Equipment while destroying or heavily attenuating the data transmission between the O-RU and the other User Equipment. The UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Channel-Information-based Beamforming conformance test should evaluate the following scenarios for the O-RU to comply and will rely on TER Channel Emulation capabilities as shown in Figure 3.2.3.2-3. a. A scenario where two spatial streams, or eAxC flows, are generated for two users (one layer each) with M antenna ports or TAB connectors. The O-DU will report to the O-RU via C plane messages an emulated channel estimate 𝐻 ≜ [ℎ1,...,ℎ𝑀,ℎ1,...,ℎ𝑀]∈ℂ2𝑥𝑀. The emulated channel 𝐻 shall model a static channel,

##### 3.2.3.2.10 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – Channel-Information- based Beamforming
A. Test Description and Applicability This Test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can receive a basic 3GPP test frame with channel-information-based beamforming with multiple spatial streams from multiple users (i.e. MU-MIMO). Same description and criteria for selecting the beams to be tested applies as in clause 3.2.3.2.10 but considering uplink direction. B. Test Entrance Criteria
- The O-RU must have at least two TRX chains with conducted antenna ports (or TAB connectors) to be
connected to a signal generator.
- The TER equipment must either include a channel emulator between the O-RU antenna ports and the signal
generator or the signal generator be capable of applying the required channel matrix being emulated between the users and the O-RU.
- Manufacturers’ defined list of number of TRX chains and what antenna ports or TAB connectors are
connected to each TRX chain. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions
- Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation
using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.
- Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna
ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.
- Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the beam under test
and configure the source with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and generate the test signal.
- Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.
b. Procedure a. Build an appropriate test signal described above in the signal source of the TER. b. Inject the test signals through a channel emulator or apply the required signal processing to emulate the channel under test. c. Inject the resulting test signals into the antenna ports (or TAB connectors). d. Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by either one or two sections (UL-SCH) using Section Type 5 and 6. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. e. Play the C plane messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 2.4. while also triggering the signal source. f. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the DUT, allow it to create and send the U plane messages to the O-DU and for the O-DU to demodulate, decode and extract the payload. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The test frame received by the TER/O-DU should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data.

##### 3.2.3.2.11 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Flexible Predefined- beam Beamforming
A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit a basic 3GPP test frame with predefined-beams beamforming (beamId≠0x000) and with one spatial stream (single eAxC) using section extension 11. The transmitted beam direction is measured for each indexed beam required in this measurement, see below. The measured transmitted direction is compared to manufacturer-designated direction. Transmitted direction could be defined by the phase relation between the antenna ports or TAB connectors under test, or directly by extracting the beam direction. The elevation θ and azimuth Φ angles are defined as in [2] clause 12.4.2.2: The UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Flexible Predefined-beam Beamforming conformance test might include multiple tests that the O-RU must comply. The test should include any two of the following beams: 1. A beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ). 2. A beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ). 3. A beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ). 4. A beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ). B. Test Entrance Criteria
- Manufacturers’ defined list of beam indices and their associated magnitude and phase relation between antenna
ports or TAB connectors and/or beam directions with antenna array characteristics. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions
- Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using
M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.
- Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna
ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.
- Connect the signal analyser to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the beam under
test and configure the analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.
- Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.
b. Procedure a. Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator. b. Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every slot should be described by one section (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 and will contain section extension extType=0x0B to convey the beamIDs for Beam1 and Beam2, i.e. BeamID1 and BeamID2. The fields in Section Extension 11 should contain the following values: disableBFWs RAD numBundPrb bfwCompHdr

##### 3.2.3.2.12 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – Flexible Predefined- beam Beamforming
A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can receive a basic 3GPP test frame with predefined-beams beamforming (beamId≠0x000) and with one spatial stream (single eAxC) using section extension 11. The same description and criteria for selecting the beams to be tested applies as in clause 3.2.3.2.11 applies, but instead it is related to the uplink direction. B. Test Entrance Criteria
- Manufacturers’ defined list of beam indices and their associated magnitude and phase relation between antenna
ports or TAB connectors and/or beam directions with antenna array characteristics. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions
- Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using
M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.
- Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna
ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.
- Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the beam under test
and configure the source with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and generate the test signal.
- Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.
b. Procedure a. Build an appropriate test signal described above in the signal source of the TER. b. Inject the test signal into the O-RU with the application of an initial set of beamweights, or equivalently magnitude and phase relation, between all the TER ports connected to the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) to emulate the phase and magnitude difference “seen” by the antenna elements under test. For example, initial beamweights could be set to be “all equal” (i.e. no beamforming). c. Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every slot should be described by one section (UL-SCH) using Section Type 1 messages and will contain section extension extType=0x0B to convey the beamIDs for Beam1 and Beam2, i.e. BeamID1 and BeamID2. The fields in Section Extension 11 should contain the following values: disableBFWs RAD numBundPrb bfwCompHdr

##### 3.2.3.2.13 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Flexible Real Time
Weights Beamforming A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit a basic 3GPP test frame with flexible weight-based dynamic beamforming with one spatial stream (single eAxC) using section extension 11. The transmitted beam direction is measured for each weighted beam required in this measurement, see below. The measured transmitted direction is compared to manufacturer-designated direction. Transmitted direction could be defined by the phase relation between the antenna ports or TAB connectors under test, or by directly extracting the beam direction. The elevation θ and azimuth Φ angles are defined as in [2] clause 12.4.2.2: The UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Flexible Real Time Weights Beamforming conformance test should evaluate any two of following beams (called henceforth Beam1 and Beam2) for the O-RU to comply: 1. A weight-based beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ). 2. A weight-based beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ). 3. A weight-based beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ). 4. A weight-based beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ). The UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Flexible Real Time Weights Beamforming conformance test should also evaluate the following compression methods for each of the supported beams described above (a. to e.) for the O-RU to comply: 1. No compression method applied to the beamforming weights. 2. Block floating point compression method applied to the beamforming weights with 14-bit mantissa. 3. Block scaling compression method applied to the beamforming weights with 14-bit scaler. 4. μ-law compression method applied to the beamforming weights with 14-bit fixed width. 5. Depending on what type of Beamspace compression the DUT supports, either Beamspace compression method applied to the beamforming weights with 14-bit scaler or Beamspace compression method applied to the beamforming weights with 14-bit mantissa. If the O-RU does not support all the compression methods described above, fewer than 5 compression methods will be measured. B. Test Entrance Criteria
- Manufacturers’ defined list of frequency domain (ϕ) and or time domain (θ) weights for each supported beam,
or alternatively, list of gain and phase relation, or complex beam weights, between antenna ports or TAB connectors for each supported beam. Also, the O-RU needs to report to the O-DU the antenna array characteristics. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions
- Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using
M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.
- Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna
ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.
- Connect the signal analyser to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the beam under test
and configure the analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.
- Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.
b. Procedure a. Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator. b. Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every slot should be described by one section (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 and will contain section extension extType=0x0B to convey the beam weights for Beam1 and Beam2. The fields in Section Extension 11 should contain the following values: disableBFWs RAD numBundPrb bfwCompHdr

# 0 0 floor(allocPRBsymbol /2) (depends on method)
Bundle bfwCompParam beamId bfwI / bfwQ PRB bundle 0 (depends on Compression method) beamID1 Weights for Beam1 PRB bundle 1 (depends on Compression method) beamID2 Weights for Beam2 Where allocPRBsymbol is the number of allocated PRBs per symbol for the TM1.1 test waveform under a certain Bandwidth and Subcarrier spacing configuration. For example, for a TM1.1 with 100MHz bandwidth and 30kHz subcarrier spacing, the allocPRBsymbol is 273. If O-RU does not support a field, then its value should be 0x0. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. c. Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. d. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame. e. Extract either the beamweights, or magnitude and phase relation, or beam direction from the measured signal. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The signal measured by the signal analyser should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 2. The test frame received by the signal analyser should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data. 3. The signal relation (i.e. beamweights, or magnitude and phase relation) between antenna ports or TAB connectors, or the extracted beam direction, should match the expected relation, or beam direction, corresponding to the beams under test within a tolerance defined by the manufacturer.

##### 3.2.3.2.14 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – Flexible Real Time
Weights Beamforming A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can receive a basic 3GPP test frame with weight-based beamforming and with one spatial stream (single eAxC) using section extension 11. The same description and criteria for selecting the beams to be tested applies as in clause 3.2.3.2.13 but applies to the uplink direction. B. Test Entrance Criteria
- Manufacturers’ defined list of frequency domain (ϕ) and or time domain (θ) weights for each supported beam,
or alternatively, list of gain and phase relation, or complex beam weights, between antenna ports or TAB connectors for each supported beam. Also, the O-RU needs to report to the O-DU the antenna array characteristics C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions
- Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation
using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.
- Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna
ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.
- Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the beam under test
and configure the source with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and generate the test signal.
- Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.
b. Procedure a. Build an appropriate test signal described above in the signal source of the TER. b. Inject the test signal into the O-RU with the application of an initial set of beam weights, or equivalently magnitude and phase relation, between all the TER ports connected to the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) to emulate the phase and magnitude difference “seen” by the antenna elements under test. For example, initial beamweights could be set to be “all equal” (i.e. no beamforming). c. Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every slot should be described by one section (UL-SCH) using Section Type 1 messages and will contain section extension extType=0x0B to convey the beam weights. The fields in Section Extension 11 should contain the following values: disableBFWs RAD numBundPrb bfwCompHdr

# 0 0 floor(allocPRBsymbol /2) (depends on method)
Bundle bfwCompParam beamId bfwI / bfwQ PRB bundle 0 (depends on Compression method) beamID1 Weights for Beam1 PRB bundle 1 (depends on Compression method) beamID2 Weights for Beam2 Where allocPRBsymbol is the number of allocated PRBs per symbol for the TM1.1 test waveform under a certain Bandwidth and Subcarrier spacing configuration. For example, for a TM1.1 with 100MHz bandwidth and 30kHz subcarrier spacing, the allocPRBsymbol is 273. If O-RU does not support a field, then its value should be 0x0. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. d. Play the C plane messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1 while also triggering the signal source. e. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the DUT, allow it to create and send the U plane messages to the O-DU and for the O-DU to demodulate, decode and extract the payload. f. Repeat the previous steps but now in step b apply a different set of beamweights or phase relation between all the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) when injecting the test signal into the O-RU. For example, repeating the process for a number of different beamweights will simulate the reception of the test signal from different beam directions. This allows to determine if the O-RU is really focusing the sensitivity to the correct beam direction. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The test frame received by the TER/O-DU should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data. 2. The beamweights or equivalently the magnitude and phase relation at the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) of the test signal that achieves the highest performance (i.e. best EVM, power, SNR, etc.) should match with the manufacturer’s declaration of the beams under test.

##### 3.2.3.2.15 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Layer nulling
Beamforming A. Test Description and Applicability This Test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit a basic 3GPP test frame with channel-information-based beamforming with multiple spatial streams from multiple users (i.e. MU-MIMO) with section extension 14. For Category A radios, the test is for each polarization separately and consequently either different or same channel models can be defined for each of the polarization. For Category B, same channel might be used for both polarizations and the test might measure each polarization separately. The transmitted beam direction is measured for each scenario required in this measurement. The measured transmitted direction is extracted from the decoded received signal in the TER. Transmitted direction is defined by properly receiving a data transmission between the O-RU and the target User Equipment while destroying or heavily attenuating the data transmission between the O-RU and the other User Equipment. The UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Layer nulling Beamforming conformance test should evaluate the following scenarios for the O-RU to comply and will rely on TER Channel Emulation capabilities as shown in Figure 3.2.3.2-3. a. The conformance test will contain two test runs where in each of the test runs, the O-DU will indicate to the O-RU that one of the users/layers to be null at a time. For example, first test run will indicate only UE

# 0 Layer 0 to be null (i.e. null eAxC 0) while the second test run will indicate only UE 1 layer 0 to be null
(i.e. null eAxC 1), see Figure 3.2.3.2-4. b. A scenario where two spatial streams, or eAxC flows, are generated for two users (one layer each) with M antenna ports or TAB connectors. The O-DU will report to the O-RU via C plane messages using Section Types 5 and Section Types 6 an emulated channel estimate 𝐻 ≜ [ℎ1,...,ℎ𝑀,ℎ1,...,ℎ𝑀]∈ℂ2𝑥𝑀. The

##### 3.2.3.2.16 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – Layer nulling
Beamforming A. Test Description and Applicability This Test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can receive a basic 3GPP test frame with channel-information-based beamforming with multiple spatial streams from multiple users (i.e. MU-MIMO) with section extension 14. Same description and criteria for selecting the beams to be tested applies as in clause 3.2.3.2.15 but considering uplink direction. B. Test Entrance Criteria
- The O-RU must have at least two TRX chains with conducted antenna ports (or TAB connectors) to be
connected to a signal generator.
- The TER equipment must either include a channel emulator between the O-RU antenna ports and the signal
generator or the signal generator be capable of applying the required channel matrix being emulated between the users and the O-RU.
- Manufacturers’ defined list of number of TRX chains and what antenna ports or TAB connectors are
connected to each TRX chain. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions
- Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation
using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.
- Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna
ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.
- Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the beam under test
and configure the source with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and generate the test signal.
- Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.
b. Procedure a. Build an appropriate test signal described above in the signal source of the TER. b. Inject both test signals, for both Users, through a channel emulator or apply the required signal processing to emulate the channel under test. c. Inject the resulting test signals into the antenna ports (or TAB connectors). d. Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by either one or two sections (UL-SCH) using Section Type 5 and 6. Section type 5 messages will contain section extension 14 indicating the nulling of the eAxC to be nulled under this test run. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. e. Play the C plane messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in section 2.4. while also triggering the signal source. f. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the DUT, allow it to create and send the U plane messages to the O-DU and for the O-DU to demodulate, decode and extract the payload. g. Repeat procedure a. to f. but now null other eAxC to be nulled (i.e. the remining eAxC not tested yet). D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. For each of the test runs, the expected test frame (i.e. the non-nulled eAxC) received by the TER/O-DU should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data. 2. For each of the test runs, the non-expected test frame (i.e. the nulled eAxC) received by the TER/O-DU should be measured and confirm that no data or heavily attenuated data is measured.

##### 3.2.3.2.17 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Channel-Information- based Beamforming with mixed numerology
A. Test Description and Applicability This Test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit a basic 3GPP test frame with channel-information-based beamforming and mixed numerology in combination with a beam-ID-based beamforming and mixed numerology. For Category A radios, the test is for each polarization separately and consequently either different or same channel models can be defined for each of the polarization. For Category B, same channel might be used for both polarizations and the test might measure each polarization separately. The two beams share the spectrum equally and the transmitted beam directions for UE-based and beam-ID-based beamforming are either sufficiently separated in space or a guard band can be signalled in between to avoid interference. On each beam, i.e. the beam signalled via beam ID and the beam signalled via UE-ID the testcase emulates a change of the numerology. The UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Channel-Information-based Beamforming with mixed numerologies conformance test should evaluate the following scenarios for the O-RU to comply and will rely on TER capabilities as shown in Figure 3.2.3.2-5. a. A scenario where two spatial streams, or eAxC flows, are generated for two users (one layer each) with M antenna ports or TAB connectors. The O-DU will signal to the O-RU via C plane messages a beam ID based beam and a UE ID based beam that are either sufficiently separated in the spatial domain to avoid interference or a guard band is configured between the frequency domain resources. The two beams share the channel bandwidth in equal parts, depending on the applied numerology. The beam ID beam direction is based on manufacturer declaration and the O-DU may report to the O-RU via C plane messages an emulated channel estimate 𝐻 ≜ [ℎ1,...,ℎ𝑀]∈ℂ2𝑥𝑀 allowing the computing of the beamweight matrix 𝐺 ≜ [𝑔1,...,𝑔𝑀] ∈

##### 3.2.3.2.18 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – Bit masking for antenna mapping in Channel-Information-based Beamforming in uplink direction
A. Test Description and Applicability This Test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can receive properly a basic 3GPP test frame with bit masking signalling an antenna mapping for channel-information-based beamforming in uplink direction. The O-DU emulator shall signal antenna port combinations via section extension type 16 as declared by the manufacturer. An uplink signal is fed into the O-RU antenna ports signalled as belonging to the antenna mapping and the received signal should indicate good reception by analysis of EVM and PN pattern matching. In a second analysis, the uplink signal is fed into the O-RU antenna ports that are not signalled as belonging to the antenna mapping and the received signal quality, e.g. EVM should be much worse compared to the proper reception case. The UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – bit masking for antenna mapping in Channel- Information-based Beamforming should evaluate the following scenarios for the O-RU to comply and will rely on TER capabilities as shown in Figure 3.2.3.2-7. in uplink direction B. Test Entrance Criteria
- The O-RU must have at least two TRX chains with conducted antenna ports (or TAB connectors) to be
connected to a signal generator.
- The TER equipment must be able transmit two uplink signals that are fed into the antenna ports of the O-RU.
The feeding of the uplink signal into the antenna ports can be done simultaneously or consecutively.
- The TER may contain a channel emulation stage or a switch matrix to allow the proper connection of the
uplink signal with the O-RU antenna port or a consecutive test with manual connection is possible
- Manufacturers’ defined list of number of TRX chains and what antenna ports or TAB connectors are
connected to each TRX chain.
- Manufacturer provides information about antenna mapping to enable correct signalling via C-plane
- 
C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions
- Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using
M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.
- Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna
ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.
- Connect the signal generator to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the scenario
under test and configure the analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.
- Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.
b. Procedure a. The uplink signal is described by Table A.1-1 in ETSI TS 138.141-1 and is referred to as G-FR1-A1-5 with the power that is about 30 dB higher as the minimum sensitivity. The data content is a new PN23 sequence in each of the two test steps. b. Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the scenario under test. c. The O-DU emulator signals via section extension type 16 without section extension 10 the antenna masking dependent on manufacturer declaration. The antenna elements belonging to the signalled antenna mask are identified by the first eAxC value in section extension type 16. d. Test step 1: The signal generator uplink signal containing a new PN23 sequence in the FRC G-FR1-A1-5 is connected to the antenna port identified as the first eAxC value corresponding to the situation where the uplink signal is properly connected to the receiving antenna port. The received signal should indicate a good EVM signal quality and the PN23 sequence matches between generator and analyser e. Test step 2: A second uplink signal containing a new PN23 sequence in the FRC G-FR1-A1-5 is connected to the antenna port not identified as the first eAxC value in the section extension type 16 message corresponding to the situation where the uplink signal is wrongly connected to the receiving antenna port. The received signal quality should be much worse compared to the signal quality detected in paragraph (d) f. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. For the situation of the uplink signal fed into the first eAxC antenna port signalled as belonging to the antenna mask, the signal measured by the signal analyser should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 2. The test frame received in test step 1 by the signal analyser should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data. 3. The received uplink signal in test step 2 should indicate a EVM not satisfying the 3GPP performance or indicate a PN pattern mismatch

##### 3.2.3.2.19 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – User port grouping in Channel-Information-based Beamforming in downlink direction
A. Test Description and Applicability This Test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit a basic 3GPP test frame with UE based antenna port grouping and channel-information-based beamforming. The test emulates a downlink signal with 2 layers belonging to the same UE. Via section extension type 17, the O-DU emulator signals the same UE ID for the two downlink layer signal and the analyser shall indicate a good signal quality. In a second test step, the signal analyser is connected to an antenna port of the O-RU that is not signalled as belonging to the user port group and the received signal quality should be much worse compared to test step 1. The UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – user port grouping for antenna mapping in Channel-Information-based Beamforming should evaluate the following scenarios for the O-RU to comply and will rely on TER capabilities as shown in Figure 3.2.3.2-8 mapping in downlink direction a. A scenario where two spatial streams, or eAxC flows, are generated for one user. The antenna configuration of the O-RU has M antenna element rows as of manufacturer declaration and R<M antenna elements will be used to transmit the two layers to the user. The O-DU will signal to the O-RU via C plane messages a UE ID based beam and a user port grouping. The O-DU may report to the O-RU via C plane messages an emulated channel estimate 𝐻 ≜ [ℎ1,...,ℎ𝑀]∈ℂ1𝑥𝑀 allowing the computing of the beamweight matrix 𝐺 ≜

##### 3.2.3.2.20 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – DMRS based
Beamforming A. Test Description and Applicability This Test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY, the condition being O-RUs that support either DMRS-EQ or DMRS-NEQ. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can receive a basic 3GPP test frame with Demodulation Reference Signal-based beamforming (DMRS-BF) with multiple spatial streams from multiple users (i.e. MU-MIMO) using Section Extension 24 (SE24). The UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – DMRS based Beamforming conformance test will rely on TER Beamforming capabilities as shown in Figure 3.2.3.2-8. As defined in introduction of clause 3.2.3.2 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming, each of the UE layer in TS138.141-1) of the Conducted Receiver Characteristic Test (clause 7 ETSI TS 138.141). The power levels shall be at least 30dB above Reference Sensitivity power level as described in clause 3.2.1.1. The test numerology will be preferably 30kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth, if supported. Otherwise, it shall use any available subcarrier space, and the highest bandwidth supported by the O-RU DUT. In addition, the uplink test vector will be generated with UL-SCH in UL slots and allocated to the PRBs 0 to 50 truncated to the carrier bandwidth used for testing. Note that this test vector is defined for a Single Input Single Output (SISO) scenario. However, for this test, the test vector is expanded to evaluate the test scenario where two spatial streams, or eAxC flows, are scheduled at the same resource allocation for two users (with one layer each) and with M antenna ports or TAB connectors. The CUSM-Plane emulator will signal to the O-RU via C-plane messages the scheduling of the two ueIds, using Section Type 5 and Section Extension 10 with beamGroupType=10b or beamGroupType=11b depending on O-RU capabilities. This test case does not test allocated IPN measurement (MEAS_IPN_ALLOC =DISABLED), antenna DMRS SNR (andDmrsSnr=0), transform precoding and self-assembly. The CUSM-Plane emulator shall assign and schedule the ueIds using any supported number of least significant bits of the ueId to indicate the layers within each user. If an O-RU supports ueId persistence, ueId persistence shall not be used “ueId-persistence-enabled=FALSE”. The CUSM-Plane emulator will inform the O-RU of the DMRS configurations for the two streams using Section Extension 24 with entryType 1 and 2. The two DMRS configurations are as follows: UE 0 Layer 0 (DMRS 0) UE 1 Layer 0 (DMRS 1) 1000 1002 Ports

# 4 5
Scrambling ID 0 (𝒏𝟏 ) 𝑰𝑫 DMRS Power Boosting 3 dB UL DMRS Configuration Type 1 DMRS Duration (maxLength) len1 (Single Symbol) DMRS Additional Position 1+1 (2) (dmrs-AdditionalPosition) UL Mapping Type A l0 pos2 DMRS Uplink Transform False Precoding r16 Transform Precoding False Same DMRS signal can be used for all available polarizations. Each polarization might be measured separately. If O-RU supports any other beamforming, these shall not be exercise and tested. If O-RU supports Analog Beamforming (Time Domain Beamforming), the test should not apply any analogue beamforming or time domain beamforming. In this case, M is not the number of antenna ports or TAB connectors but the number of TRX channels supported by the O-RU. There are two layers with two different DMRS configurations to measure in this scenario, two users with one layer each. A successful received layer is defined as properly receiving data transmission at the O-DU emulator side from a corresponding layer transmitted by a User Equipment. This received data transmission shall be successfully received when it matches the DMRS configuration being signalled to the O-RU. B. Test Entrance Criteria
- The O-RU has at least two TRX chains with conducted antenna ports (or TAB connectors) to be connected to a
signal generator.
- The O-RU supports enough entry tables of DMRS configuration to process the test vector and configuration
under test.
- The TER equipment either includes a beamformer between the O-RU antenna ports and the UE signal
generator or the signal generator be capable of emulating different AoA for different UE.
- The TER equipment is responsible for generating the RF signals for each UE layer as described in Section A,
the corresponding matching O-RAN fronthaul traffic with Section ST5, SE10 and SE24 and the configuration of the DUT via M-Plane.
- Manufacturers’ defined list of number of TRX chains and what antenna ports or TAB connectors are
connected to each TRX chain. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions
- Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation
using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.
- Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna
ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.
- Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the beam under test
and configure the source with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and generate the test signal.
- Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.
b. Procedure a. Build an appropriate test signal described in Section A in the signal source of the TER. b. Inject the test signals through a beamformer or apply the required signal processing to the layers under test. c. Get the resulting test signals ready to be injected into the antenna ports (or TAB connectors). d. Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test using Section Type 5 with Section Extension 10 and Section Extension 24. e. Play the C-plane messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 2.4. while also triggering the signal source so the signal is injected into the antenna ports (or TAB connectors). f. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the DUT, allow it to create and send the U- plane messages to the O-DU emulator. g. Allow for the O-DU emulator to capture the U-Plane messages sent by the O-RU and to run the following measurements on the extracted IQ data for each of the users/layers:
- if O-RU implements DMRS-BF-EQ:
- EVM of the received equalized IQ data (no channel estimation and equalization are used in
TER).
- BER or BLER of the received equalized IQ data after layer demapping and decoding in the TER.
> NOTE 1: The measured BER or BLER depends on the algorithms implemented in both the O-RU
DUT and the O-DU TER.
> NOTE 2: The algorithms for demapping and decoding to be used in TER are left for future study.
- if O-RU implements DMRS-BF-NEQ:
- EVM of the received non-equalized IQ data after the channel estimation and equalization
operation in the TER.
> NOTE 3: The measured EVM depends on the algorithms implemented in both the O-RU DUT
and the O-DU TER.
> NOTE 4: The algorithms for channel estimation and equalization to be used in TER are left for
future study.
- BER or BLER of the received non-equalized IQ data after Channel Estimation, equalization,
layer demapping and decoding in the TER.
> NOTE 5: The measured BER or BLER depends on the algorithms implemented in both the O-RU
DUT and the O-DU TER.
> NOTE 6: The algorithms for demapping and decoding to be used in TER are left for future study.
- demodulate, decode and extract the payload.
D. Test Requirement (expected result) The test frame received by the TER/O-DU emulator for each of the users/layers should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data (payload). Report EVM and BER or BLER measured during the test.

##### 3.2.3.2.21 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – DMRS based
Beamforming about Symbol reordering The FDD conducted test case for DMRS based beamforming about symbol reordering is the same as the test case described in clause 3.2.5.2.12 for the TDD conducted case with the exception that references made to the clause 3.2.5.2.11 shall be replaced to references to the clause 3.2.3.2.20 for this test case. UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using section extension 24 for DMRS-BF The FDD conducted test case for extended DMRS based beamforming using section extension 24 is the same as the test case described in clause 3.2.5.2.13 for the TDD conducted case with the exception that references made to the clause 3.2.5.2.11 shall be replaced to references to the clause 3.2.3.2.20 for this test case.

#### 3.2.3.3 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression (CMP)
Validate the correct implementation and interpretation of mandatory and optional IQ data compression formats described in [2]. Also, evaluate the consistency in U-Plane signalling. It applies to the O-RAN CUS Specification [2]:
- Clause 7.4
- Clause 7.5.2.10
- Clause 8.3.3.13
- Clause 8.3.3.15/16/17
- Clause 8.3.2
- Clause 8.3.3
- Table 10.2-1
- Annex A
- Annex A.6
The objective is primarily to test the protocol, prior to the compression algorithms performance. Signalling: IQ Compression related fields in UC-Plane messages include:
- U-Plane IQ data field
- C-Plane udCompHdr (per clause 7.5.2.10 of [2])
- U-Plane udComphdr (per clause 8.3.3.13of [2])
- U-Plane udCompParam (per clause 8.3.3.15of [2])
Compression: The current specification [2] includes 7 compression modes, including uncompressed mode (fixed point). Tests should cover each one of these modes
- fixed-point
- block floating-point
- block scaling
- mu-law
- modulation compression (modulation compression not included in this document)
- Block Floating Point + selective RE sending
- Modulation Compression + selective RE sending
IQ Bit Width: IQ information can be represented using different bit width (1-16 bits). To optimize test time, tests should be performed on a subset of bit widths For fixed point, block floating point, block scaling, mu-law compressions the subset of bit widths to be tested are
- 9 bits
- 14 bits
For modulation compression bit width 4 is used for the test.

##### 3.2.3.3.1 Overview of Compression Test Methodology
A common test methodology and structure will be used across all compression test cases. Each one of the test cases will be defined with specific input parameters and expected output values. To minimize influence of the Radio’s RF performance to the test results, the test methodology will be based on a relative comparison between modulated signal measurements performed on a test frame with uncompressed IQ (fixed bits) and measurements on the same test frame using compressed IQ. The test will verify that the difference between measurements fits within an acceptable range for the test to pass. For downlink test, the modulated signal measurement is performed by a signal analyser on the antenna port of the O- RU. For uplink measurement, the modulated signal measurement is performed with the IQ extracted from the Uplink U- Plane data sent by the O-RU on the O-RAN interface. The following paragraphs in this overview section outline the details of these common test methodologies. 3.2.3.3.1.1 Test Frame The test frames used for compression conformance test will be referred in this document as “NR-FR1-CMP-TST- FRAME-DL” Downlink Standard Compression Test frame and “NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-UL” Uplink Standard Compression Test frame. They are 5G NR frames based on the description in clause 3.2.1.1.5 with specific attributes described below. The Downlink UC-Plane test stimulus file includes the C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink the NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-DL test frame. The Uplink C-Plane test stimulus file includes the C-Plane messages that require the O-RU to provide the uplink U- Plane messages according to the NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-UL test frame received by the O-RU on its antenna port. Signalling and IQ information will be based on various compression schemes Stimulus File Name Description NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-UNC-16B Static Downlink Uncompressed (CU-plane) NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-UL-UNC-16B Static Uplink Uncompressed (C-plane only) NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-FPF-9B Static Downlink Fixed Point 9 Bits (CU-plane) NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-FPF-14B Static Downlink Fixed Point 14 Bits (CU-plane) NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-UL-FPF-9B Static Uplink Fixed Point 9 Bits (C-plane only) NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-UL-FPF-14B Static Uplink Fixed Point 14 Bits (C-plane only) NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-BFP-9B Static Downlink Block Floating Point 9 Bits (CU-plane) NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-BFP-14B Static Downlink Block Floating Point 14 Bits (CU-plane) NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-UL-BFP-9B Static Uplink Block Floating Point 9 Bits (C-plane only) NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-UL-BFP-14B Static Uplink Block Floating Point 14 Bits (C-plane only) NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-BSC-9B Static Downlink Block Scaling 9 Bits (CU-plane) NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-BSC-14B Static Downlink Block Scaling 14 Bits (CU-plane) NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-UL-BSC-9B Static Uplink Block Scaling 9 Bits (C-plane only) NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-UL-BSC-14B Static Uplink Block Scaling 14 Bits (C-plane only) NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-MLW-9B Static Downlink Mu-Law 9 Bits (CU-plane) NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-MLW- Static Downlink Mu-Law 14 Bits (CU-plane) 14B NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-UL-MLW-9B Static Uplink Mu-Law 9 Bits (C-plane only) NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-UL-MLW- Static Uplink Mu-Law 14 Bits (C-plane only) 14B NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-MC Static Downlink Modulation Compression NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-UNC- Static Downlink Uncompressed (CU-plane) with both BRE-16B empty and allocated RE in the same symbol Static Uplink Uncompressed (C-plane only) with both NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-UL-UNC- empty and allocated RE in the same symbol BRE-16B Static Downlink Block Floating Point + Selective RE 9 NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-BRE-9B Bits (CU-plane) Static Downlink Block Floating Point + Selective 14 Bits NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-BRE-14B (CU-plane) Static Uplink Block Floating Point 9 Bits + Selective RE NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-UL-BRE-9B (C-plane only) Static Uplink Block Floating Point 14 Bits + Selective NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-UL-BRE-14B RE (C-plane only) Static Downlink Modcomp + Selective RE Compression NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-MRE (CU_plane) Stimulus File Name Description NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-UNC-16B Downlink Uncompressed (CU-plane) NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-UNC-16B Uplink Uncompressed (C-plane) NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-FPF-9B Downlink Fixed Point 9 Bits (CU-plane) NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-FPF-14B Downlink Fixed Point 14 Bits (CU-plane) NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-FPF-9B Uplink Fixed Point 9 Bits (C-plane only) NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-FPF-14B Uplink Fixed Point 14 Bits (C-plane only) NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-BFP-9B Downlink Block Floating Point 9 Bits (CU-plane) NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-BFP-14B Downlink Block Floating Point 14 Bits (CU-plane) NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-BFP-9B Uplink Block Floating Point 9 Bits (C-plane only) NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-BFP-14B Uplink Block Floating Point 14 Bits (C-plane only) NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-BSC-9B Downlink Block Scaling 9 Bits (CU-plane) NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-BSC-14B Downlink Block Scaling 14 Bits (CU-plane) NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-BSC-9B Uplink Block Scaling 9 Bits (C-plane only) NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-BSC-14B Uplink Block Scaling 14 Bits (C-plane only) NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-MLW-9B Downlink Mu-Law 9 Bits (CU-plane) NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-MLW- Downlink Mu-Law 14 Bits (CU-plane) 14B NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-MLW-9B Uplink Mu-Law 9 Bits (C-plane only) NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-MLW- Uplink Mu-Law 14 Bits (C-plane only) 14B NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-MC Non-Static Downlink Modulation Compression NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-UNC- Static Downlink Uncompressed (CU-plane) with both BRE-16B empty and allocated RE in the same symbol NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-UNC- Static Uplink Uncompressed (C-plane only) with both BRE-16B empty and allocated RE in the same symbol Downlink Block Floating Point + Selective RE 9 Bits NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-BRE-9B (CU-plane) Downlink Block Floating Point + Selective RE 14 Bits NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-BRE-14B (CU-plane) Uplink Block Floating Point + Selective RE 9 Bits NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-BRE-9B (C-plane only) Uplink Block Floating Point + Selective RE 14 Bits NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-BRE-14B (C-plane only) NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-MRE Downlink Modcomp + Selective RE Compression 3.2.3.3.1.2 Test Frame Power To ensure that the compressed IQ exponent value is properly tested, each symbol of the test frame will include 3 sections with different power levels. The Power levels are relative powers to the first group of PRBs transmitted. Any valid 3GPP power level may be used for the first set of PRBs as long as the power levels of the remaining PRBs are also valid. Figure 3.2.3.3-1 below shows PRB power relative to the first set of PRBs.
- 0 dB for the bottom third of total PRBs in the symbol (referred as PDSCH0)
- -10 dB for the middle third of total PRBs in the symbol (referred as PDSCH1)
- -20 dB for the upper third of total PRBs in the symbol (referred as PDSCH2)
The spectrum representation of the frame shown in Figure 3.2.3.3-1 below highlights the various power levels for each 3.2.3.3.1.3 Test Frame User data To validate that user data has not been impacted by compression, the test payload for the 3 sections is each based on an individual PN23 sequence that will be measured and compared by the test apparatus. 3.2.3.3.1.4 Test Frame Modulation Scheme To maximise coverage on the compressed IQ mantissa value, the test frame will use the highest possible modulation, limited to 256 QAM modulation for downlink. An example measurement is show in Figure 3.2.3.3-2. 3.2.3.3.1.5 Summary of Required Measurements for Compression Tests measurements types will be required for downlink tests and 4 measurements will be required for uplink tests.
- Power level: Using the test frames (NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-DL and NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-UL)
sent twice with both compressed and uncompressed IQ data, power level measurements are performed to validate compression algorithms influence on Exponent (udCompParam). The Power level measurements are called: o CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH0 in dBm o CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH0 in dBm o CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH1 in dBm o CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH1 in dBm o CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH2 in dBm o CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH2 in dBm For the test to pass, the difference between measurements should be within an acceptable range, called o ACC_PWR_PDSCH0 = ± 1dB o ACC_PWR_PDSCH1 = ± 1dB o ACC_PWR_PDSCH2 = ± 1dB o
- EVM: Using a common test frame sent twice with both compressed and uncompressed IQ data, EVM
measurements comparisons between uncompressed IQ and compressed IQ will help validate acceptable compression influence on signal quality. These 6 EVM measurements required: o CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH0 in % o CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH0 in % o CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH1 in % o CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH1 in % o CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH2 in % o CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH2 in % For the test to pass, the difference between the compressed and uncompressed measurements for the same PDSCH signal must be within the following range: o ACC_EVM_PDSCH0 ≤ 4 percentage points o ACC_EVM_PDSCH1 ≤ 4 percentage points o ACC_EVM_PDSCH2 ≤ 4 percentage points An example measurement showing both power and EVM is shown below in Figure 3.2.3.3-3.
- Payload Data Integrity: comparing user data between the O-RAN test frame and the RF measurement to
validate that compression does not influence user data. The User data measurements are called: o CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH0 o CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH1 o CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH2 o CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH0 o CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH1 o CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH2 For the data integrity test to pass, the comparison between stimulus payload and the measured payload should be free of any errors (i.e. BER=0).
- Presence/Absence of U-Plane Header measurements (uplink only): to validate that in the U-Plane PRB
header, the udCompHeader, “reserved” and udCompParam fields are correctly absent for Static compression mode or present for other compression modes. Downlink Power Level EVM Data Integrity Uncompressed IQ Perform power Perform EVM N/A (fixed 16 bits) measurements on the measurements on the groups of PRBs to 3 groups of PRBs to create 3 power create 3 EVM reference points reference points Fixed point Perform the test Perform the test If power level and (< 16 bits fixed IQ) using same test using same test EVM OK, then verify waveforms in waveforms in user data integrity compressed mode compressed mode with BER and check if 3 power and check if 3 EVM measurement on measurements are measurements are payload within acceptable within acceptable range range Block floating point Perform the test Perform the test If power level and using same test using same test EVM OK, then verify waveforms in waveforms in user data integrity compressed mode compressed mode with BER and check if 3 power and check if 3 EVM measurement on measurements are measurements are payload within acceptable within acceptable range range Block scaling Same as above Same as above Same as above Mu Law Same as above Same as above Same as above Modulation Same as above Same as above Same as above Compression Block floating point + Same as above Same as above Same as above Selective RE Block scaling + Same as above Same as above Same as above Selective RE 3.2.3.3.1.6 Compression Tests reference table As the same methodology is used across the different compression modes, the conformance test can be viewed as series of instances of the same test structure with different parameter values as shown below in Test name DL/UL Compression IQ Width UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario - Static Format (SF) bits DL Fixed point UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Static 14 bits Format (SF) Fixed-Point (FPF) 9 bits UL Fixed Point bits bits DL Block Floating point UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Static 14 bits Format (SF) Block Floating Point (BFP) 9 bits UL Block Floating point bits bits DL Block Scaling UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Static 14 bits Format (SF) Block Scaling (BSC) 9 bits UL Block Scaling bits bits DL Mu-Law UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Static 14 bits Format (SF) Mu-Law (MLW) 9 bits UL Mu-Law bits UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Static Modulation Format (SF) Modulation Compressed DL N/A Compression Format Block Floating point + 9 bits DL UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Static Selective RE 14 bits Format Modulation Compressed Format Block Floating point + 9 bits UL Selective RE 14 bits Modulation UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Static (ST) DL Compression + 4-bits mod-compr Format + Selective RE (MRE) Selective RE UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario - Non-Static Format Test (NS) bits DL Fixed point UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Non-Static 14 bits (NS) Fixed-Point (FPF) 9 bits UL Fixed Point bits bits DL Block Floating point UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Non-Static 14 bits (NS) Block Floating Point (BFP) 9 bits UL Block Floating point bits bits DL Block Scaling UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Non-Static 14 bits (NS) Block Scaling (BSC) 9 bits UL Block Scaling bits bits DL Mu-Law UC-Plane O-DU CMP Scenario Non-Static 14 bits (NS) Mu-Law (MLW) 9 bits UL Mu-Law bits UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Non-Static Modulation DL 4-bits (NS) Modulation Compressed Format Compression Block Floating point + 9 bits UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Non-Static DL Selective RE 14 bits (NS) Block Floating Point + Selective RE Block Floating point + 9 bits (BRE) UL Selective RE 14 bits UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Non-Static Modulation (NS) mod-compr Format + Selective RE DL Compression + 4-bits (MRE) Selective RE 3.2.3.3.1.7 Results Analysis In general, for each specific Compression Test in this conformance test document, the test will pass if the following conditions are met:
- Power measurement differences between Uncompressed and Compressed are within acceptable range
- EVM measurement difference between Uncompressed and Compressed are within acceptable range
- Data integrity measurements show no data corruption
- Uplink U-Plane Header measurements exclude fields for static compression
These test criteria and expected results are summarized below in 3.2.3.3-6. Acceptance Threshold Test Attributes Criteria Test name DL IQ Compression Power difference EVM difference BER UL Width ACC_EVM_PDSCH0 ACC_PWR_PDSCH0 = = ACC_PWR_PDSCH1 = ACC_EVM_PDSCH1 UC-Plane O- 9 bits BER = 0 ACC_PWR_PDSCH2 = = RU CMP DL Fixed point +/- 1 dB ACC_EVM_PDSCH2 Scenario ≤ 4 percentage points Fixed-Point bits BER = 0 Format (FPF) bits BER = 0 Same as above Same as above UL Fixed Point bits BER = 0 DL 9 bits BER = 0 UC-Plane O- Block Floating bits BER = 0 RU CMP point Scenario bits BER = 0 Block Floating Block Floating UL Point point bits BER = 0 Compression (BFP) UC-Plane O- bits BER = 0 RU CMP DL Block Scaling Scenario 14 bits BER = 0 Block Scaling 9 bits BER = 0 Compression UL Block Scaling bits BER = 0 (BSC) DL Mu-Law 9 bits UC-Plane O- BER = 0 DU CMP 14 bits BER = 0 Scenario Mu-Law UL Mu-Law 9 bits BER = 0 Compression (MLW) 14 bits BER = 0 UC-Plane O- DL Modulation 4-bits RU CMP Compression Scenario Same as above Same as above BER = 0 Modulation Compressed Format UC-Plane O- Same as above Same as above Block Floating 9 bits BER = 0 RU CMP DL point + Scenario Same as above Same as above Selective RE 14 bits BER = 0 Block Floating Same as above Same as above bits BER = 0 Point Block Floating Compression UL point + Same as above Same as above + Selective Selective RE 14 bits BER = 0 RE (BRE) UC-Plane O- RU CMP Modulation Scenario Compression Same as above Same as above Modulation DL 4-bits + Selective Compressed RE + Selective RE Format

##### 3.2.3.3.2 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) Fixed-Point
(FP) A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format. The purpose of this test is to:
- Validate correct encoding of IQ data under the following conditions.
o RU Static compression configurations o Fixed point IQ data format o Selection of 2 supported bit width: 9 bits, 14 bits o Uplink / downlink
- Validate that in the U-Plane PRB header, the udCompHeader, “reserved” and udCompParam fields are
not present B. Test Entrance Criteria The test uses the setup and methodology described in clause 3.2.1.1. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions
- The O-RU is started
- Fronthaul Ethernet interface configured for communication between TER and the DUT.
- O-RU synchronized with TER using S-Plane
- Communication established between TER and the DUT such that it is possible to exchange U-Plane and
C-Plane messages
- signal analyser connected to DUT’s antenna port and setup according to DUT RF output configuration
- signal source connected to DUT’s antenna port and setup according to DUT RF input configuration
b. Procedure For each supported bit width (9 bits, 14 bits), the following tests need to be performed: 1. Downlink test
- Via the M-Plane or another suitable mechanism, put the O-RU into a static configuration with the
downlink configured as follows: no compression, (16 bits)
- Arm signal analyser to capture the next Frame
- Send the “uncompressed” NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-UNC-16B test stimulus file to the
DUT
- With the signal analyser, perform the 3 power measurements
- CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH0 in dBm
- CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH1 in dBm
- CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH2 in dBm
- With the signal analyser, perform the 3 EVM measurements
- CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH0 in %
- CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH1 in %
- CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH2 in %
- With the signal analyser, check Data integrity measurements
- CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH0
- CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH1
- CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH2
- Via the M-Plane or another suitable mechanism, put the O-RU into a static configuration with the
downlink configured as follows: Fixed point, 9-bit (then 14 bits)
- Send the “Compressed” NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-FPF-9B (then 14B) test stimulus
file to the DUT
- With the signal analyser, perform the 3 power measurements
- CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH0 in dBm
- CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH1 in dBm
- CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH2 in dBm
- With the signal analyser, perform the 3 EVM measurements
- CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH0 in %
- CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH1 in %
- CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH2 in %
- With the signal analyser, check Data integrity measurements
- CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH0
- CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH1
- CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH2
- Verify the following conditions
- Power measurements within acceptable range
- Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH0 and CMP-
Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH0 is within ACC_PWR_PDSCH0 range
- Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH1 and CMP-
Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH1 is within ACC_PWR_PDSCH1 range
- Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH2 and CMP-
Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH2 is within ACC_PWR_PDSCH2 range
- 
- EVM measurements within acceptable range
- Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH0 and CMP-
Compressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH0 is less than ACC_EVM_PDSCH0
- Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH1 and CMP-
Compressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH1 is less than ACC_EVM_PDSCH1
- Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH2 and CMP-
Compressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH2 is less than ACC_EVM_PDSCH2
- BER Measurements show no errors
- CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH0 =0
- CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH1 =0
- CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH2 =0
- CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH0 =0
- CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH1 =0
- CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH2 =0
2. Uplink test
- Via the M-Plane or another suitable mechanism, put the O-RU into a static configuration with the
uplink configured as follows: no compression, 16-bit
- Arm signal source to generate the Frame NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-UL
- Arm CUSM-E to send the “uncompressed” NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-UL-UNC-16B test
stimulus file to the DUT
- ARM CUSM-E to capture the Uplink U-Plane Data from the DUT
- Launch the test
- Extract IQ information from Capture U-Plane trace
- Using the signal analyser software, perform the 3 power measurements
- CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH0 in dBm
- CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH1 in dBm
- CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH2 in dBm
- Using the signal analyser software, perform the 3 EVM measurements
- CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH0 in %
- CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH1 in %
- CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH2 in %
- Using the signal analyser software, check Data integrity measurements
- CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH0
- CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH1
- CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH2
- Via the M-Plane or another suitable mechanism, put the O-RU into a static configuration with the
uplink configured as follows: Fixed point, 9-bit (then 14 bits)
- Arm signal source to generate the Frame NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-UL
- Arm CUSM-E to send the “Compressed” NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-UL-FPF-9B test stimulus
file to the DUT
- Arm CUSM-E to capture the Uplink U-Plane Data from the DUT
- Launch the test
- Extract IQ information from Capture U-Plane trace
- Using the signal analyser software, perform the 3 power measurements
- CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH0 in dBm
- CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH1 in dBm
- CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH2 in dBm
- Using the signal analyser software, perform the 3 EVM measurements
- CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH0 in %
- CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH1 in %
- CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH2 in %
- Using the signal analyser software, check Data integrity measurements
- CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH0
- CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH1
- CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH2
- Validate correct U-Plane PRB header structure
- U-Plane udComphdr (per clause 8.3.3.13 of [2])
- U-Plane udCompParam (per clause 8.3.3.15 of [2])
- Validate that the power measurements within acceptable range
- Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH0 and CMP-
Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH0 is withinACC_PWR_PDSCH0 range
- Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH1 and CMP-
Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH1 is withinACC_PWR_PDSCH1 range
- 
- Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH2 and CMP-
Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH2 is withinACC_PWR_PDSCH2 range
- EVM measurements within acceptable range
- Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH0 and CMP-Compressed-
Measured-EVM-PDSCH0 is less than ACC_EVM_PDSCH0
- Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH1 and CMP-Compressed-
Measured-EVM-PDSCH1 is less than ACC_EVM_PDSCH1
- Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH2 and CMP-Compressed-
Measured-EVM-PDSCH2 is less than ACC_EVM_PDSCH2
- Validate that the BER Measurements show no errors
- CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH0 = 0
- CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH1 = 0
- CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH2 = 0
- CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH0 = 0
- CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH1 = 0
- CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH2 = 0
D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. All validation steps above are within expected ranges or correctly match the expected outcome.

##### 3.2.3.3.3 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) Block Floating
Point (BFP) A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format. This static format test scenario for Block Floating Point Format will verify DL and UL correct encoding of IQ information for 2 supported bit widths: 9 bits or 14 bits. B. Test Entrance Criteria Same as in clause 3.2.3.3.2 for Block floating point formats. C. Test Methodology Same as in clause 3.2.3.3.2 with Static Block Floating Point test patterns
- NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-BFP-9B
- NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-BFP-14B
- NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-UL-BFP-9B
- NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-UL-BFP-14B
D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. Same as in clause 3.2.3.3.2.

##### 3.2.3.3.4 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) Block Scaling
A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format. This static format test scenario for Block Scaling Format will verify DL and UL correct encoding of IQ information for 2 supported bit widths: 9 bits or 14 bits. B. Test Entrance Criteria Same as in clause 3.2.3.3.2 for Block Scaling point formats. C. Test Methodology Same as in clause 3.2.3.3.2 with Static Block Scaling test patterns
- NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-BSC-9B
- NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-BSC-14B
- NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-UL-BSC-9B
- NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-UL-BSC-14B
D. Test Requirement (expected result) Same as in clause 3.2.3.3.2.

##### 3.2.3.3.5 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) Mu-Law (MLW)
A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format. This static format test scenario for Mu-Law Format will verify DL and UL correct encoding of IQ information for 2 supported bit widths: 9 bits or 14 bits. B. Test Entrance Criteria Same as in clause 3.2.3.3.2 for Mu-Law formats. C. Test Methodology Same as in clause 3.2.3.3.2 with Static Mu-Law test patterns
- NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-MLW-9B
- NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-MLW-14B
- NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-UL-MLW-9B
- NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-UL-MLW-14B
D. Test Requirement (expected result) Same as in clause 3.2.3.3.2.

##### 3.2.3.3.6 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) Modulation- Compressed Format
A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format. This modulation compression format scenario is a static format scenario, based on 3.2.3.3.2 with some important differences
- The purpose is to validate Radio Unit’s correct interpretation of the Modulation compression parameters
used in the Section Extension Type = 4 and/or Section Extension Type 5 , based on the section extensions a radio supports. If the O-RU only supports section extension 4 on a given endpoint, then: o Section extension 4 shall be used for all symbols containing PDSCH REs and for symbols containing both PDSCH and DMRS REs. If the O-RU only supports section extension 5 on a given endpoint, then: o Section extension 5 shall be used for all symbols containing PDSCH REs and for symbols containing both PDSCH and DMRS REs. If the radio supports 4 and 5 on a given endpoint, then o Section extension 4 shall be used for symbols containing only PDSCH REs . o Section extensions 5 shall be used for symbols containing DMRS + PDSCH REs.
- When high level modulation is supported by the Device Under Test (DUT), Section Extension Type 5
messages will be tested on the current compression test frame , that includes Mixed MCS test cases where high MCS user data REs and low MCS DMRS signalling data REs are in the same PRB.
- The test will only verify DL correct encoding of IQ information, as the Modulation Compression model is
not applicable for uplink
- As the Modulation Compression model does not require IQ bit width to be setup, there is no need to run
multiple compression tests for various IQ bit width. Stimulus File Name Description NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-UNC-16B Static Downlink Uncompressed (CU-plane) NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-MC Static Downlink Modulation Compression B. Test Entrance Criteria Same as in clause 3.2.3.3.2. C. Test Methodology Same as in clause 3.2.3.3.2 with Static Modulation Compression test patterns
- NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-MC
Note that this test is only applicable to the downlink and therefore should only follow the downlink steps of the referenced test case above. Via the M-Plane or another suitable mechanism, put the O-RU into a static configuration with the downlink configured as follows: Modulation Compression. D. Test Requirement (expected result) All validation steps for the downlink referenced in clause 3.2.3.3.2 are within expected ranges or correctly match the expected outcome.

##### 3.2.3.3.7 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static (NS) Fixed-Point (FPF)
A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format. This Fixed-Point Format scenario is a non-static format scenario that will verify DL and UL correct encoding of IQ information for 2 supported bit widths: 9 bits or 14 bits. B. Test Entrance Criteria Same as in clause 3.2.3.3.2. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions
- Same as in clause 3.2.3.3.2 Non-Static Fixed-Point test patterns
- Via the M-Plane or another suitable mechanism, disable the O-RU Static IQ and compression format
b. Procedure For each supported bit width (9 bits, 14 bits), the following tests need to be performed: 1. Downlink test
- Arm signal analyser to capture the next Frame
- Send the uncompressed” NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-UNC-16B test stimulus file to the
DUT
- With the signal analyser, perform the 3 power measurements
- CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH0in dBm
- CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH1 in dBm
- CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH2 in dBm
- With the signal analyser, perform the 3 EVM measurements
- CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH0 in %
- CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH1 in %
- CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH2 in %
- With the signal analyser, check Data integrity measurements
- CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH0
- CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH1
- CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH2
- Send the “Compressed” NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-FPF-9B (then 14B) test stimulus
file to the DUT
- With the signal analyser, perform the 3 power measurements
- CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH0 in dBm
- CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH1 in dBm
- CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH2 in dBm
- With the signal analyser, perform the 3 EVM measurements
- CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH0 in %
- CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH1 in %
- CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH2 in %
- With the signal analyser, check Data integrity measurements
- CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH0
- CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH1
- CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH2
- Validate that the power measurements within acceptable range
- Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH0 and CMP-
Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH0 is within ACC_PWR_PDSCH0 range
- Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH1 and CMP-
Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH1 is within ACC_PWR_PDSCH1 range
- Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH2 and CMP-
Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH2 is within ACC_PWR_PDSCH2 range
- Validate that the EVM measurements within acceptable range
- Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH0 and CMP-
Compressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH0 is within ACC_EVM_PDSCH0 range
- Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH1 and CMP-
Compressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH1 is within ACC_EVM_PDSCH1 range
- Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH2 and CMP-
Compressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH2 is within ACC_EVM_PDSCH2 range
- Validate that the BER Measurements show no errors
- CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH0 =0
- CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH1 =0
- CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH2 =0
- CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH0 =0
- CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH1 =0
- CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH2 =0
2. Uplink test
- Arm signal source to generate the Frame NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-UL
- Arm CUSM-E to send the “uncompressed” NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-UNC-16B
test stimulus file to the DUT
- Arm CUSM-E to capture the Uplink U-Plane Data from the DUT
- Launch the test
- Extract IQ information from Captured U-Plane trace
- Using the signal analyser software, perform the 3 power measurements
- CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH0 in dBm
- CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH1 in dBm
- CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH2 in dBm
- Using the signal analyser software, perform the 3 EVM measurements
- CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH0 in %
- CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH1 in %
- CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH2 in %
- Using the signal analyser software, check Data integrity measurements
- CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH0
- CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH1
- CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH2
- Via the M-Plane or another suitable mechanism, put the O-RU into a Non-Static
configuration
- Arm signal source to generate the Frame NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-UL
- Arm CUSM-E to send the “Compressed” NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-CMP-9B
(then 14B) test stimulus file to the DUT
- ARM CUSM-E to capture the Uplink U-Plane Data from the DUT
- Launch the test
- Extract IQ information from Captured U-Plane trace
- Using the signal analyser software, perform the 3 power measurements
- CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH0 in dBm
- CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH1 in dBm
- CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH2 in dBm
- Using the signal analyser software, perform the 3 EVM measurements
- CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH0 in %
- CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH1 in %
- CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH2 in %
- Using the signal analyser software, check Data integrity measurements
- CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH0
- CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH1
- CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH2
- Validate correct U-Plane PRB header structure
- U-Plane udComphdr (per clause 8.3.3.13 of [2])
- U-Plane udCompParam (per clause 8.3.3.15 of [2]
- Validate that the power measurements within acceptable range
- Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH0 and CMP-
Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH0 is within ACC_PWR_PDSCH0 range.
- Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH1 and CMP-
Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH1 is within ACC_PWR_PDSCH1 range.
- Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH2 and CMP-
Compressed-Measured-Power-PDSCH2 is within ACC_PWR_PDSCH2 range.
- Validate that the EVM measurements within acceptable range
- Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH0 and CMP-
Compressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH0 is less than ACC_EVM_PDSCH0 value.
- Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH1 and CMP-
Compressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH1 is less than ACC_EVM_PDSCH1 value.
- Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH2 and CMP-
Compressed-Measured-EVM-PDSCH2 is less than ACC_EVM_PDSCH2 value.
- Validate that the BER Measurements show no errors
- CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH0 = 0
- CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH1 = 0
- CMP-Uncompressed-BER-PDSCH2 = 0
- CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH0 = 0
- CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH1 = 0
- CMP-Compressed-BER-PDSCH2 = 0
D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. All validation steps above are within expected ranges or correctly match the expected outcome.

##### 3.2.3.3.8 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static (NS) Block Floating
Point A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format This Block Floating-Point Format scenario is a non-static format scenario that will verify DL and UL correct encoding of IQ information for 2 supported bit widths: 9 bits or 14 bits. B. Test Entrance Criteria Same as in clause 3.2.3.3.7 for Block floating point formats. C. Test Methodology Same as in clause 3.2.3.3.7 with Static Block Floating Point test patterns
- NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-BFP-9B
- NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-BFP-14B
- NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-BFP-9B
- NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-BFP-14B
D. Test Requirement (expected result) Same as in clause 3.2.3.3.7.

##### 3.2.3.3.9 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static (NS) Block Scaling
(BSC) A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format. This Block Scaling Format scenario is a dynamic-format scenario that will verify DL and UL correct encoding of IQ information for 2 supported bit widths: 9 bits or 14 bits. B. Test Entrance Criteria Same as in clause 3.2.3.3.2 for Block Scaling formats. C. Test Methodology Same as in clause 3.2.3.3.2 with Static Block Scaling test patterns
- NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-BSC-9B
- NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-BSC-14B
- NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-BSC-9B
- NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-BSC-14B
D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. Same as in clause 3.2.3.3.7.

##### 3.2.3.3.10 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static (NS) Mu-Law (MLW)
A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format. This Mu-Law Format scenario is a dynamic-format scenario that will verify DL and UL correct encoding of IQ information for 2 supported bit widths: 9 bits or 14 bits. B. Test Entrance Criteria Same as in clause 3.2.3.3.2 for Mu-Law formats. C. Test Methodology Same as in clause 3.2.3.3.7 with Mu-Law format test patterns
- NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-MLW-9B
- NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-MLW-14B
- NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-MLW-9B
- NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-MLW-14B
D. Test Requirement (expected result) Same as in clause 3.2.3.3.7.

##### 3.2.3.3.11 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static Format (NS)
Modulation-Compressed Format A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format. This modulation compression format scenario is a non-static format scenario, based on 3.2.3.3.2 with some important differences
- The purpose is to validate Radio Unit’s correct interpretation of the Modulation compression parameters
used in the Section Extension Type = 4 and/or Section Extension Type 5 , based on the section extensions a radio supports. If the O-RU only supports section extension 4 on a given endpoint, then: o Section extension 4 shall be used for all symbols containing PDSCH REs and for symbols containing both PDSCH and DMRS REs. If the O-RU only supports section extension 5 on a given endpoint, then: o Section extension 5 shall be used for all symbols containing PDSCH REs and for symbols containing both PDSCH and DMRS REs. If the radio supports 4 and 5 on a given endpoint, then o Section extension 4 shall be used for symbols containing only PDSCH REs . o Section extensions 5 shall be used for symbols containing DMRS + PDSCH REs.
- When high level modulation is supported by the Device Under Test (DUT), Section Extension Type 5
messages will be tested on the current compression test frame , that includes Mixed MCS test cases where high MCS user data REs and low MCS DMRS signalling data REs are in the same PRB.
- The test will only verify DL correct encoding of IQ information, as the Modulation Compression model is
not applicable for uplink
- As the Modulation Compression model does not require IQ bit width to be setup, there is no need to run
multiple compression tests for various IQ bit width. Stimulus File Name Description NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-UNC-16B Non-Static Downlink Uncompressed (CU-plane) NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-MC Non-Static Downlink Modulation Compression B. Test Entrance Criteria Same as in clause 3.2.3.3.2. C. Test Methodology Same as in clause 3.2.3.3.7 with Static Modulation Compression test patterns
- NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-DL-MC
Via the M-Plane or another suitable mechanism, put the O-RU into a static configuration with the downlink configured as follow: Modulation Compression D. Test Requirement (expected result) All validation steps above are within expected ranges or correctly match the expected outcome.

##### 3.2.3.3.12 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) Block Floating
Point + Selective RE Format A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format. The Block Floating-Point+ Selective RE Format scenario is a static format scenario that will verify DL and UL correct encoding of IQ information for 2 supported bit widths: 9 bits or 14 bits. For this test scenario, the compression test methodology will be based on the description in clause 3.2.3.3.1. However, on top of the test frame requirements from clause 3.2.3.3.1, this test scenario also requires a test frame that MUST include PRBs with a combination of allocated and empty Resource Elements in the same symbol, to verify if the O-RU properly interprets the ReMask value in the udCompParam field (user data compression parameter). The measurements must be performed on the symbols that include a combination of empty and allocated resource elements. The recommended DL test frame is based on Type 2 DMRS with 2 DMRS CDM groups without data. The resource mapping model for the Resource Blocks is shown Figure 3.2.3.3-, where both symbols #2 and #11 include a combination of empty and allocated Resources. The uncompressed and compressed test frames are listed in Table 3.2.3-12: Stimulus File Name Description Static Downlink Uncompressed (CU-plane) with NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-UNC-RE-16B both empty and allocated RE in the same symbol Static Uplink Uncompressed (C-plane only) with NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-UL-UNC-RE-16B both empty and allocated RE in the same symbol Static Downlink Block Floating Point + Selective NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-BRE-9B RE 9 Bits (CU-plane) Static Downlink Block Floating Point + Selective NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-BRE-14B

# 14 Bits (CU-plane)
Static Uplink Block Floating Point 9 Bits + NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-UL-BRE-9B Selective RE (C-plane only) Static Uplink Block Floating Point 14 Bits + NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-UL-BRE-14B Selective RE (C-plane only) B. Test Entrance Criteria Same as in clause 3.2.3.3.2 for static Block floating point + Selective RE formats. C. Test Methodology Same as in clause 3.2.3.3.2 with Static Block Floating Point + Selective RE test patterns. The uncompressed test frames used for this test are
- NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-UNC-RE-16B
- NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-UL-UNC-RE-16B
The compressed test frames used for this test are
- NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-BRE-9B
- NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-BRE-14B
- NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-UL-BRE-9B
- NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-UL-BRE-14B
D. Test Requirement (expected result) Same as in clause 3.2.3.3.2.

##### 3.2.3.3.13 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) mod-compr +
Selective RE Format A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL- MANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format. This modulation compression + Selective format scenario is a static format scenario, based on clause 3.2.3.3.2 with some important differences
- The purpose is to validate Radio Unit’s correct interpretation of the Modulation compression parameters
used in the Section Extension Type = 4 and Section Extension Type 5
- When high level modulation is supported by the Device Under Test (DUT), Section Extension Type 5
messages will be tested on the current compression test frame , that includes Mixed MCS test cases where high MCS user data REs and low MCS DMRS signalling data REs are in the same PRB.
- The test will only verify Downlink correct encoding of IQ information, as the Modulation Compression
model is not applicable for uplink
- As the Modulation Compression model does not require IQ bit width to be setup, there is no need to run
multiple compression tests for various IQ bit widths. On top of the test frame requirements described above , this test scenario requires a test frame that MUST include PRBs with a combination of allocated and empty Resource Elements in the same symbol, to verify if the O-RU properly interprets the ReMask value in the udCompParam field (user data compression parameter). The measurements must be performed on the symbols that include a combination of empty and allocated resource elements. The recommended DL test frame is based on Type 2 DMRS with 2 DMRS CDM groups without data. The resource mapping model for the Resource Blocks is shown on the diagram below, where both symbols #2 and #11 include a combination of empty and allocated Resources. The uncompressed and compressed test frames are listed in the table below Stimulus File Name Description Static Downlink Uncompressed (CU-plane) with NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-UNC-RE-16B both empty and allocated RE in the same symbol Static Downlink Modulation Compression + NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-MRE Selective RE B. Test Entrance Criteria Same as in clause 3.2.3.3.2. C. Test Methodology Same as in clause 3.2.3.3.2 with Static Modulation Compression test patterns The uncompressed test frames used for this test are
- NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-UNC-RE-16B
The compressed test frames used for this test are
- NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-MRE
Via the M-Plane or another suitable mechanism, put the O-RU into a static configuration with the downlink configured as follow: Modulation Compression + Selective RE D. Test Requirement (expected result) Same as in clause 3.2.3.3.2.

##### 3.2.3.3.14 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static Format (NS) Block
Floating Point + Selective RE Format A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format This Block Floating-Point+ Selective RE Format scenario is a non-static format scenario that will verify DL and UL correct encoding of IQ information for 2 supported bit widths: 9 bits or 14 bits. For this test scenario, the compression test methodology will be based on the description in clause 3.2.3.3.1. However, on top of the test frame requirements from clause 3.2.3.3.1, this test scenario also requires a test frame that MUST include PRBs with a combination of allocated and empty Resource Elements in the same symbol, to verify if the O-RU properly interprets the sReMask value in the udCompParam field (user data compression parameter). The measurements must be performed on the symbols that include a combination of empty and allocated resource elements. The recommended DL test frame is based on Type 2 DMRS with 2 DMRS CDM groups without data. The resource mapping model for the Resource Blocks is shown on the diagram below, where both symbols #2 and #11 include a combination of empty and allocated Resources. The uncompressed and compressed test frames are listed in Table 3.2.3-14. Stimulus File Name Description Non-Static Downlink Uncompressed (CU-plane) NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-UNC-RE-16B with both empty and allocated RE in the same symbol Non-Static Uplink Uncompressed (C-plane only) with both empty and allocated RE in the same NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-UNC-RE-16B symbol Non-Static Downlink Block Floating Point + NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-BRE-9B Selective RE 9 Bits (CU-plane) Non-Static Downlink Block Floating Point + NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-BRE-14B Selective 14 Bits (CU-plane) Non-Static Uplink Block Floating Point 9 Bits + NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-BRE-9B Selective RE (C-plane only) Non-Static Uplink Block Floating Point 14 Bits + NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-BRE-14B Selective RE (C-plane only) B. Test Entrance Criteria Same as in clause 3.2.3.3.2 for Non-Static Block floating point + Selective RE formats. C. Test Methodology Same as in clause 3.2.3.3.7 with Non-Static Block Floating Point + Selective RE test patterns The uncompressed test frames used for this test are
- NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-UNC-BRE-16B
- NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-UNC-BRE-16B
The compressed test frames used for this test are
- NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-BRE-9B
- NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-BRE-14B
- NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-BRE-9B
- NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-BRE-14B
D. Test Requirement (expected result) Same as in clause 3.2.3.3.7.

##### 3.2.3.3.15 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static Format (NS) mod- compr + Selective RE Format
A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format This Modulation Compression + Selective RE Format scenario is a non-static format scenario that will verify DL correct encoding of IQ information. This is the same as 3.2.3.3.13 with Non-Static test frames. When high level modulation is supported by the Device Under Test (DUT), Section Extension Type 5 messages will be tested on the current compression test frame , that includes Mixed MCS test cases where high MCS user data REs and low MCS DMRS signalling data REs are in the same PRB. The uncompressed and compressed test frames are listed in Table 3.2.3-15. Stimulus File Name Description Non-Static Downlink Uncompressed (CU-plane) NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-UNC-RE-16B with both empty and allocated RE in the same symbol Non-Static Downlink Modulation Compression + NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-MRE Selective RE B. Test Entrance Criteria Same as in clause 3.2.3.3.2 for non-static Modulation Compression + Selective RE formats. C. Test Methodology Same as in clause 3.2.3.3.7 with Non-Static Block Floating Point + Selective RE test patterns The uncompressed test frames used for this test are
- NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-UNC-BRE-16B
The compressed test frames used for this test are
- NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-MRE
D. Test Requirement (expected result) Same as in clause 3.2.3.3.7.

#### 3.2.3.4 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Delay Management (DLM)
This section describes conformance test cases for O-RU Delay Management. The test setup for these test cases is shown in clause 2.1. When performing the conformance test cases for scenario class Delay Management it does not matter which timing method is used. The different timing methods are described in clause 4.4.3, 4.4.4, 4.4.5 and 4.4.6 of [2] Delay Management downlink tests will test whether the O-RU can accurately transmit data when C and U plane messages are received at the extreme ends of their respective reception windows. Uplink tests will test whether the O- RU can accurately transmit received data to the CUSM-E when the CUSM-E transmits uplink C-Plane messages within the correct uplink reception window. It also tests whether the O-RU sends its U-Plane messages within the correct reception window. The size of the control plane reception window on the O-RU will be: (T2a_max_up +Tcp_adv_dl) – (T2a_min_up +Tcp_adv_dl) = C-Plane reception window. The start-point (before t=0) will be: T2a_max_up + Tcp_adv_dl = start of C-Plane transmission window. The size of the reception window for the user plane will be: T2a_max_up - T2a_min_up. The start-point (before t=0) will be T2a_max_up. As an example, if the values are set such as T2a_max_up = 264 µs, Tcp_adv_dl = 63 µs and T2a_min_up = 53 µs, then the C-Plane reception window would be 211 µs, the start of C-plane transmission window would be 327 us, the U-plane reception window would 211 µs and the start of U-plane transmission window would be 264 µs. t=0 c u TER u Reception window U-Plane DL O-RU T2a_min_up_dl T2a_max_up_dl c Tcp_adv_dl Reception window T2a_min_cp_dl TER C-Plane DL T2a_max_cp_dl symbol #12 symbol #13 symbol #0 The Delay Management uplink test cases for the O-RU will test that if the C-Plane fronthaul messages are received with respective reception window then the corresponding U-Plane messages will be sent in the O-RU’s transmission window. Similar to the downlink case, the size of the control plane reception window is T2a_max_cp_ul - T2a_min_cp_ul . The start-point of (before t=0) of the C-plane reception window is T2a_max_cp_ul. The size of the transmission window for the user plane will be: Ta3_max_up - Ta3_min_up. The start-point (after t=0) will be Ta3_min_up. If we follow the same example values as the ones set in the downlink case, the C-plane reception window would be 211 µs, the start-point of the C-plane reception window would be 274 µs, the U-plane transmission window would be 70 µs and the start-point of the U-plane transmission window would be 20 µs. t=0 TER c u O-RU Ta3_max_up_dl Ta3_min_up_dl Transmission c window U-Plane UL TER Reception window C-Plane UL u T2a_min_cp_ul T2a_max_cp_ul symbol #12 symbol #13 symbol #0 t The test frame used for downlink tests will be (by default) will be the 3GPP G-FR1-A1-1 FDD signal shown below in substituted provided there is at least one symbol in each slot available for test traffic. This symbol will be a stock data Section Type “B” described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. This symbol will contain a new PN23 sequence starting in PRB 0 and extending to all the PRBS in the test signal (274 PRBs in the example below). The test frame used for uplink tests will be (by default) the 3GPP G-FR1-A1-1 FDD signal shown below in Figure 3.2.3.4-4. If the radio does not support this signal a 3GPP test wave form that the radio supports can be substituted provided there is at least one symbol in each slot available for test traffic. This symbol will be a stock data Section Type “B” described in 2.3.1. This symbol will contain a new PN23 sequence starting in PRB 0 and extending to all the PRBS in the test signal (25 PRBs in the example below).

##### 3.2.3.4.1 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class DLM Test #1: Downlink – Positive testing
A. Test Description and Applicability This test is MANDATORY. This test case will validate that the timing on the air interface is according to requirements specified in the CUS Specification when the C-Plane and the U-Plane messages are received within the O-RU’s reception windows. Four different test cases for downlink can be performed when the expected outcome is positive, i.e. the O-RU shall be able to transmit the received U-Plane-data on the air interface. These are shown in Figure 3.2.3.4-5. Note that in these tests the C-Plane reception window may be applicable to the slot or symbol boundaries depending on the Radio’s capabilities. That is, in some radios, the C-Plane reception window is at the beginning of each slot and all C-Plane messages will be sent at once within this window. Other radios will require C-Plane messages to be sent in a reception window for each symbol, In all cases U-Plane messages will be sent during reception windows corresponding to each symbol regardless of whether the radio has large enough buffers to store U-Plane data for multiple symbols. 1: Early - Early t=0 2: Early - Late t=0 T2a_min_up_dl T2a_min_up_dl T2a_max_up_dl T2a_max_up_dl T cp_adv_dl O-RU rec. win. U-plane T cp_adv_dl O-RU rec. win. U-plane O-RU rec. win. C-plane T cp_adv_dl O-RU rec. win. C-plane T cp_adv_dl T2a_min_cp_dl T2a_min_cp_dl T2a_max_cp_dl T2a_max_cp_dl 3: Late - Early t=0 4: Late - Late t=0 T2a_min_up_dl T2a_min_up_dl T2a_max_up_dl T2a_max_up_dl T cp_adv_dl O-RU rec. win. U-plane T cp_adv_dl O-RU rec. win. U-plane O-RU rec. win. C-plane T cp_adv_dl O-RU rec. win. C-plane T cp_adv_dl T2a_min_cp_dl T2a_min_cp_dl T2a_max_cp_dl T2a_max_cp_dl 1st case “C-Plane Early – U-Plane Early”; the C-Plane message is received by the O-RU at the beginning of the reception window for the C-Plane messages (indicated with small green box in figure 2.5). The corresponding U- Plane data is received in the beginning of the reception window for the U-Plane messages (indicated with small blue box in figure), i.e. T later. cp_adv_dl 2nd case “C-Plane Early – U-Plane Late”; the C-Plane message is received by the O-RU at the beginning of the reception window for the C-Plane messages. The corresponding U-Plane data is received earliest T after the cp_adv_dl C-Plane message i.e. in the end of the U-Plane reception window. 3rd case “C-Plane Late – U-Plane Early”; the C-Plane message is received by the O-RU at the end of the reception window for the C-Plane messages. The corresponding U-Plane data is received earliest T after the C-Plane cp_adv_dl message i.e. in the end of the reception window. 4th case “C-Plane Late – U-Plane Late”; this case is greyed out in the figure since it will in practice be the same case as number 3, the U-Plane message cannot be received later than it is in case 3. B. Test Entrance Criteria The O-RU must have a conducted antenna port (or TAB connector) to be connected to a signal analyser. The reception windows will be calculated and used by the CUSM-E based on the delay parameters reported by the radio on the M-Plane. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. Connect the RF signal analyser to the O- RU antenna port. Determine the correct reception windows the radio claims to support using delay management parameters repowered by the radio, b. Procedure Configure the CUSM-ECUSM-E to send C-Plane and U-Plane messages so these messages are received within the reception windows for respective plane according to the three cases (1..3) described in Figure 3.2.3.4-5 above.
> NOTE: Make sure that the C-Plane message is received at least T earlier then the corresponding U-
cp_adv_dl Plane message(s) by the O-RU. On the RF-signal-analyser observe the received signal and compare the decoded data on the selected test symbol to the send PN23 sequence for that symbol. D. Pass/Fail Criteria (expected result) The test passes if the received data matches the transmitted data.

##### 3.2.3.4.2 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class DLM Test #2: Uplink – Positive testing
A. Purpose and Description This test is MANDATORY. This test case will validate that the transmission of the U-Plane data in uplink direction is transmitted correctly by the O-RU within its transmission window. The CUSM-E will send C-Plane messages at both ends of the C-Plane reception window specified by the radio using the M-Plane (Two tests). The C-Plane messages will describe a test frame as shown above. The frame will have one designated symbol in each slot (not containing DMRS information). The C-Plane message will ask the radio to send that symbol’s data from each slot. After the correct C-Plane messages are sent the CUSM-E will trigger the signal generator to send a valid test signal to the radio’s RF port. This signal will contain a new, known PN23 sequence in the same symbol (per slot) designated by the C-Plane messages. The positive test outcome for these uplink test cases is that the corresponding U-Plane data for a specific C-Plane message is transmitted within the O-RU’s transmission window IF the C-Plane message was received within the O- RU’s reception window as shown in Figure 3.2.3.4-6. The data will be transmitted to the radio by an external signal generator and the uplink signal will be as described above. The test data sent by the signal generator will contain a known, new PN23 sequence in one symbol of each slot. The CUSM-E will expect to receive the same data for the correct symbol in each slot.

# O -R U r e c . w in . C -p la n e

# T 2 a _ m a x _ c p

# O -R

# O -R
E U U a re L a re r c c l y . w in t e . w in . C . C -p -p la n e

# T 2 a la n e

# T 2 a _
_ m m a a x_ x_ cp cp

# T 2 a _ u l

# T 2 a _ u l
_ _ m m in in _ _ cp cp _ _ u u l l t t = = 1st case “Early”; the C-Plane message is received by the O-RU at the beginning of the reception window for the C-Plane messages (indicated with small green box in figure). 2nd case “Late”; the C-Plane message is received by the O-RU at the end of the reception window for the C- Plane messages. B. Test Entrance Criteria The O-RU must have a conducted antenna port (or TAB connector) to be connected to a signal analyser. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. Connect the RF Signal Generator to the O- RU antenna port. b. Procedure Configure the CUSM-E to send C-Plane so these messages are received within the reception windows according to the two cases (1..2) described in Figure 3.2.3.4-7 above. After these messages are sent a trigger signal will be sent to the signal generator instructing it to send the correct RF test frame at t=0. The CUSM-should receive U-Plane messages on the front haul interface during the uplink transmission window described by the radio over the M-Plane. D. Pass/Fail Criteria (expected result) The test case is passed if the correct data is received at CUSM-E in the correct time window.

##### 3.2.3.4.3 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class DLM Test #3: Downlink – Negative testing
A. Test Description and Applicability This test is MANDATORY. This test case will validate that the O-RU will correctly increment relevant M-Plane counters if C-Plane and/or U- Plane messages are not received within the respective O-RU reception windows. Negative testing for downlink traffic will verify that the O-RU will correctly increment relevant M-Plane counters if C-Plane and/or U-Plane messages are not received within the respective O-RU reception windows. There are four test cases defined for this Downlink test and are shown in Figure 3.2.3.4-8. The titles on each diagram show the message arrival time relative to the O-RU receive window for the C-Plane and the U-Plane in that order. For instance, test 1: Too Early-OK means the C-Plane message arrived early, outside the O-RU C-Plane receive window and the corresponding U-Plane message arrived correctly within the O-RU U-Plane receive window. : T o o T cp_adv_dl

# O -R U re
: O K T cp_adv_dl

# O -R U re
c c E . w – . w a r l y - O

# T 2 a _ m

# O -R U re c . w in in . C -p la n e

# T 2 a _ m a x_ cp
T o o L a t

# T 2 a _ m

# O -R U re c . w in in . C -p la n e

# T 2 a _ m a x_ cp
K

# T 2 a _ m
a x_ u p _ d l . U -p la n e T cp_adv_dl

# T 2 a _ m
_ d l e

# T 2 a _ m
a x_ u p _ d l . U -p la n e T cp_adv_dl

# T 2 a _ m
_ d l t = in _ u p _ d l in _ cp _ d l t = in _ u p _ d l in _ cp _ d l : O K T cp_adv_dl

# O -R U re
: T o o T cp_adv_dl

# O -R U re
– c c . w L . w T o o E a

# O -R U re c . w
in . C -p la n e

# T 2 a _ m a x_
a t e - O

# O -R U re c . w
in . C -p la n e

# T 2 a _ m a x_
r l y

# T 2 a _ m
_ m a x_ u p _ d l in . U -p la n e T cp_adv_dl

# T 2 a _ m
cp _ d l K

# T 2 a _ m
_ m a x_ u p _ d l in . U -p la n e T cp_adv_dl

# T 2 a _ m
cp _ d l t = in _ u p _ d l in _ cp _ d l t = in _ u p _ d l in _ cp _ d l B. Test Entrance Criteria The O-RU must support the default parameters defined in clause 3.2.2 above, especially the parameters concerning delay management. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. b. Procedure Configure the CUSM-ECUSM-E to send C-Plane and U-Plane messages so these messages are received according to the four test cases shown in figure above. D. Test Requirement (expected result) The test case is passed if the M-Plane performance measurement objects in the list “rx-window-measurement- objects” for RX_EARLY are incremented properly for tests 1 and 2 and RX_LATE are incremented properly for tests 3 and 4.

##### 3.2.3.4.4 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class DLM Test #4: Uplink – Negative Testing
A. Test Description and Applicability This test is MANDATORY. This test case will validate that the O-RU will correctly increment relevant M-Plane counters if C-Plane and/or U- Plane messages are not received within the respective O-DU reception windows. Negative testing for uplink traffic will verify that the O-RU will correctly increment relevant M-Plane counters if C-Plane and/or U-Plane messages are not received within the respective O-DU reception windows. There are four test cases defined for this Downlink test and are shown in Figure 3.2.3.4-9. The titles on each diagram show the message arrival time relative to the O-RU receive window for the C-Plane and the U-Plane in that order. For instance, test 1: Too Early-OK means the C-Plane message arrived early, outside the O-RU C-Plane receive window and the corresponding U-Plane message arrived correctly within the O-RU U-Plane receive window. Negative testing for uplink traffic will verify that the O-RU will not transmit any U-Plane uplink data when C- Plane messages are not received within the window on the O-RU. 1: Too Early t=0 T2a_min_cp_ul O-RU rec. win. C-plane T2a_max_cp_ul 2: Too Late t=0 T2a_min_cp_ul O-RU rec. win. C-plane T2a_max_cp_ul B. Test Entrance Criteria The O-RU must support the default parameters defined in clause 3.2.2 above, especially the parameters concerning delay management. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. b. Procedure Configure the CUSM-E to send C-Plane messages so these messages are received according to the two test cases shown in figure above. D. Pass/Fail (expected result) The test case is passed if the M-Plane performance measurement objects in the list “rx-window-measurement- objects” for RX_EARLY and RX_LATE are incremented properly for test 1 and test 2 respectively.

#### 3.2.3.5 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Transport (TRN)
This test is for future study.

#### 3.2.3.6 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class LAA (LAA)
The purpose of this clause is to specify LAA test cases to test the compliance of the O-RU to the O-RAN specifications. Although in LAA operation, regular C-Plane and U-Plane messages (used for operation over licensed spectrum as well) are transmitted over the fronthaul interface between the O-DU and O-RU, there exist additional C-Plane messages that are required specifically for LAA operation over unlicensed spectrum. These additional C-Plane messages are based on Section type 7 and are communicated in both UL and DL directions between the O-DU and O-RU. The LAA test cases only focus on LAA-related messages and operations. Other testing aspects that are applicable to LAA and non-LAA technologies (e.g. delay management, beamforming, compression, etc.) are not considered in this clause; Please refer to other clauses in the conformance test specification document. LAA considered in this clause is based on 3GPP Rel. 13, which only considers downlink transmission on the unlicensed spectrum (i.e. uplink transmission goes on the licensed component carrier). Hence, all the test cases in this clause will consider downlink operation only. This includes DL U-Plane messages and DL/UL C-Plane messages. Note also that UL C-Plane messages only exist in LAA technology. The LAA test cases for the O-RU test if the O-RU is capable of conforming with the CUSM-E instructions in terms of: 1) Correctly performing the listen-before-talk (LBT) procedure (i.e. managing the congestion window). 2) Timely data transmission based on the spectrum sensing outcome. 3) Timely deferring from occupying the spectrum based on the messages received from the O-DU. On the other hand, testing O-RU capabilities (e.g. spectrum sensing) is out of scope of this specifications since it’s not directly related to the O-RAN fronthaul interface.

##### 3.2.3.6.1 CU-DU-LAA-CWM Test #1: LBT PDSCH Configuration and Response
A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The test must be executed if the O-RU supports LAA. This test validates that the O-RU is capable of the following functions
- Correctly receiving and interpreting C-Plane messages (Section Type 7 and specifically laaMsgType 0)
from the TER to correctly perform LBT.
- Correctly receiving U-Plane data from the TER and correctly processes the data (i.e. drop it or transmit it)
based on the LBT outcome.
- Correctly performing LBT and correctly generating C-Plane messages to inform the TER about the LBT
outcomes using Section Type 7 and specifically laaMsgType 2. This test assumes that the O-RU is capable of processing Section Type 1 C-plane messages and its corresponding U-plane messages. It applies to the O-RAN CUS Specification [2]:
- Clause 7.4
- Clause 7.5.3.14
- Clause 7.5.3.15
- Clause 7.5.3.16
- Clause 7.5.3.17
- Clause 7.5.3.18
- Clause 7.5.3.19
- Clause 7.5.3.20
- Clause 7.5.3.21
- Clause 7.5.3.22
- Clause 7.5.3.23
- Clause 7.5.3.25
- Clause 7.5.3.27
- Table 10.2-1
The purpose of this test is to:
- Validate that the O-RU can correctly interpret C-Plane messages by correctly performing LBT.
- Validate that the O-RU can correctly construct the UL C-Plane message as specified in Section Type 7,
laaMsgType 2 with the following specialized fields. Specifically, o Verify the laaMsgLen based on the message content. o Verify that the lbtHandle parameter in the DL C-Plane message with laaMsgType 0 matches the corresponding lbtHandle parameter in the UL C-Plane message with laaMsgType 2. o Verify the lbtPdschRes parameter value. Set: {0, 1, 2, 3}. o Verify the inParSF parameter value. Set: {0, 1} o Verify the sfStatus parameter value. Set: {0, 1}. o Verify the sfnSf value.
- Validate that the O-RU can correctly interpret U-Plane data received from the TER.
- Validate that the O-RU can correctly interpret C-Plane messages received from the TER.
B. Test Entrance Criteria
- The O-RU must support LAA
- The O-RU has passed M-Plane conformance and S-Plane conformance testing.
- The O-RU has antenna ports or TAB connectors for TER connections
C. Test Methodology The test shall be executed by the TER issuing DL C-Plane messages to the O-RU DUT to cause the O-RU to execute LBT. Furthermore, the TER shall issue other U-Plane and C-Plane messages required for data transmission. The TER needs to emulate external interference to allow the O-RU to do LBT and send the LBT outcome to the TER based on the description in clause 7.2.5 of [2] a. Initial Conditions
- TER (Test Equipment, O-RU) is initialized and configured.
- The O-RU is initialized, synchronized, and configured as normal, except that it shall receive and interpret
Test Commands.
- The fronthaul Ethernet interface is up.
- The O-RU is running its usual software, except that it is configured to accept and execute Test
Commands to enable O-RU Conformance Testing.
- The TER needs to emulate the external interference (e.g. Wi-Fi, other LAA cells) for the O-RU to execute
LBT. b. Procedure
- DL C-Plane message (LBT_PDSCH_REQ):
o The TER sends DL C-Plane message to configure the DUT (i.e. O-RU) to execute LBT for PDSCH transmission using the configuration parameters in Table 3.2.3-16 below. o The TER needs to run 4 consecutive LBT trials starting from run index 1 until run index 4. Run laaMsgType laaMsgLen lbtHandle lbtOffset lbtMode lbtDeferFactor lbtBackoffCounter MCOT Index

# 3 0 2 0 500 3 3 8 8

# 4 0 2 1 750 3 7 16 10
- DL U-Plane data:
o TER provides U-Plane DL data to the O-RU at the correct time based on clause 5.3.4 in [2] o TER evaluates the detected U-Plane data for correctness o Note that multiple U-Plane messages are needed for every “run” (i.e. for every MCOT). Some of these U-Plane messages should get dropped by the TER based on the outcome of the LBT process.
- DL C-Plane (Section type 1):
o TER sends DL C-Plane message to help the DUT interpret the U-Plane data.
- UL C-Plane message (LBT_PDSCH_RSP) verification:
o The TER generates RF signal to emulate that the channel is busy for the durations shown in Run Channel busy duration Index

# 3 2.5 msec
lbt-timer (see Clause 16.2.2 in the M- plane specs) o TER starts Timeout-Timer “T1”; “T1” is of a suitable length to allow the O-RU to receive the C- Plane and U-Plane messages, process it, and act accordingly (based on the LBT outcome and the description in clause 7.2.5 of [2]) such that timer expiry is a sign of test failure. D. Test Requirement (expected result)
- TER detects the U-Plane data at the correct time and for the correct duration based on Table 3.2.3-18 below
and clause 7.2.5 of [2].
- TER correctly detects the LBT response C-Plane messages over the fronthaul interface with results that match
the emulated external interference.
- TER detects the correct operation of the DUT based on the description in clause 7.2.5 of [2] and Table 3.2.3-
below: Run Expected behaviour Index Data transmission for 2 msecs starts after finishing initial spectrum sensing. Data transmission for 3 msecs starts after finishing spectrum sensing for a minimum duration of 2 msecs. Data transmission for 8 msecs starts after finishing spectrum sensing for a minimum duration of 2.5 msecs.

# 4 No Data transmission. LBT should fail.

#### 3.2.3.7 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class LTE (LTE)
This clause describes applicable LTE conformance test cases for O-RAN fronthaul interface. Since there are plenty of the commonalities between the NR and LTE test cases, this clause makes suitable references to the NR specific test cases clauses for the LTE scenarios whenever possible, as below.
- LTE UC-Plane O-DU Scenario Class Beamforming (BFM) described in clause 3.2.3.2
- LTE UC-Plane O-DU Scenario Class Compression (CMP) described in clause 3.2.3.3
- LTE UC-Plane O-DU Scenario Class Delay Management (DLM) described in clause 3.2.3.4
- LTE UC-Plane O-DU Scenario Class LAA (LAA) described in clause 3.2.3.6
- LTE UC-Plane O-DU Scenario Class Section Type 3 described in clause 3.2.3.8
Subsequently, LTE-only specific generic test cases are explicitly covered below. One of the key differences applicable for LTE specific test cases as compared to NR is due to the explicit precoding behaviour supported by some of the transmission modes for LTE. In particular, for a Category B O-RU to implement precoding for LTE TM2-TM4, specific C-Plane instructions need to be provided to the O-RU from the O-DU. This specific aspect of the O-RAN fronthaul interface is enabled by the section extension = 0x3 described in the CUS Plane specification [2]. For all the test cases described in this clause: ▪ Downlink tests will use a standard 3GPP E-TM1.1 test frame for FDD (clause 6.1.1.1 ETSI TS 136.141-1) as shown in Figure 3.2.3.7-1. ▪ Uplink tests will use a standard 3GPP UL FRC Configuration definition for FDD (TS36.521-1) and power levels 30dB above Reference Sensitivity power level as shown in Figure 3.2.3.7-2. All the downlink tests in this clause use a 3GPP test wave form LTE Test Model 1.1 (E-TM1.1) with 20 MHz Bandwidth as described in ETSI TS 136.141 clause 6.1.1.1. There are several variations on this test signal depending on the capabilities of the radio. If for example the radio does not support the bandwidth used in the example tests as reported in the M-plane it will be up to the test developer to modify their tests to adapt to the radio. The test is expected to follow the same spirit as the tests in this document may have to be changed. Likewise, all uplink tests in this clause use a 3GPP test waveform described in 36.141 clause A1. As with downlink tests if the radio does not support this signal, it is up to the test developer to modify the parameters of the test without changing the spirit of the test.

##### 3.2.3.7.1 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Base 3GPP DL
A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit a basic 3GPP test frame using the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.1 of this document except for only one spatial stream on one antenna will be used. This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required). As per E-TM1.1 all user data in this test will be zeros. The test will be conducted. B. Test Entrance Criteria
- The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.1 of this document. The test bandwidth is 20
MHz Bandwidth as described by E-TM1.1.
- The O-RU must have a conducted antenna port to be connected to a signal analyser.
- The signal analyser must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel.
C. Procedure a. Initial Conditions
- Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using
M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.
- Connect the signal analyser to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors under test and configure the
analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.
- Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.
b. Procedure
- Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the E-TM1.1 signal described above in the CUSM-E.
- Use the CUSM-E control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal.
Every symbol should be described by a single section (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages.
- The data in the sections must be all zeros.
- No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.
- Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing
windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The signal measured by the signal analyser should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 2. The test frame received by the signal analyser should be the same as the signal described above. If it contains all the same PRB assignments and all zero data, the test passes.

##### 3.2.3.7.2 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended 3GPP DL – Resource Allocation
A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can accurately interpret C-Plane resource allocation messages, transfer U-Plane data into the correct resource blocks and transmit this data accurately in the downlink. This test requires non-zero data to populate all allocated resource blocks. This data will be a PN23 sequence with a seed value of all ones. This test is applicable for both Category A and Category B radios. B. Test Entrance Criteria
- The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1 of this document. The test bandwidth is 20
MHz Bandwidth as described by E-TM1.1.
- The O-RU must have a conducted antenna port to be connected to a signal analyser.
- The signal analyser must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel.
C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions
- Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation
using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.
- Connect the signal analyser to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors under test and configure the
analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.
- Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.
b. Procedure
- Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the E-TM1.1 signal described above in the CUSM-E.
- Use the CUSM-E control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal.
Every symbol should be described by a single section (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages.
- The data in the sections must be a PN23 sequence using an initial seed of all ones.
- No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.
- Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing
windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame. D. Test Requirement (expected result) A. The signal measured by the signal analyser should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). B. The test frame received by the signal analyser should be the same as the signal described above. It contains all the same PRB assignments and data the test passes.

##### 3.2.3.7.3 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended 3GPP UL – Resource Allocation
A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to validate correct uplink operation of the O-RU using 3GPP Reference Sensitivity level definition (Clause 7.2 ETSI TS 136.141) of the Conducted Receiver Characteristic Test (clause 7 ETSI TS 136.104) and power Levels at least 30 dB above Reference Sensitivity power Level described in E-TM1.1. This is to improve the likelihood that all data will be received by the radio correctly since we are not interested in testing receiver sensitivity but only the O-RAN protocol compliance. The data section will be a PN23 sequence with a seed value of all ones. Under those conditions, 3GPP compliant O-RU should deliver uplink U-Plane information that matches with the uplink signal. The TER (Test Equipment, O-RU) generates an uplink signal on the antenna connector or TAB connector, together with the corresponding C-Plane messages on the Fronthaul interface. The TER will capture the U-Plane messages generated by the DUT and validate if the payload matches with the uplink signal. This test is applicable for both Category A and Category B radios. It applies to the following O-RAN CUS Specification [2]:
- Clause 7.4
- Clause 8.3.2
- Clause 8.3.3
B. Test Entrance Criteria
- The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1 of this document. The test bandwidth is 20
MHz Bandwidth as described by E-TM1.1.
- The O-RU must have a conducted antenna port to be connected to a signal analyser.
- The signal analyser must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel.
- The Radio must support the reMask parameter as notified by the M-Plane.
C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions
- Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation
using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.
- Connect the signal analyser to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors under test and configure the
analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.
- Configure the source to transmit the required 3GPP test signal upon receiving a trigger signal from the
CUSM-ECUSM-E. The signal source power level should be adjusted to setting used in the 3GPP receiver sensitivity test.
- Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.
b. Procedure
- Load uplink test waveform (A1-1) on the RF signal source
- Configure signal source to play test waveforms on 10ms frame boundaries starting when it receives a
trigger signal from the CUSM-E that C-Plane messages have been sent.
- Load C-Plane message sequence on Test Equipment O-RU (TER)
- Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul messages
- Launch test to simultaneously play RF uplink frame and C-Plane messages
- Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the Antenna
port
- Extract IQ information
- Extract Payload
- Compare payload binary sequences
D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The verdict is “Test pass” if payload binary sequences match between the uplink test frame sent to the DUT and the received U-Plane data from the DUT 2. If any of the test conditions is not true, the verdict for the whole test is "Fail" 3. If the DUT does not support initial conditions, the test verdict is "Inconclusive"

##### 3.2.3.7.4 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using reMask parameter 3GPP DL –
Resource allocation A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can accurately interpret C-Plane resource allocation messages with the reMask parameter set, transfer U-Plane data into the correct resource elements and transmit this data accurately in the downlink. This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required). The test will be conducted therefore there will be no channel distortion or interference. It is mandatory the radio pass this test to be considered O-RAN conformant. This test requires non-zero data to populate all allocated resource blocks. This data will be a PN23 sequence with a seed value of all ones. This test is applicable for both Category A and Category B radios. B. Test Entrance Criteria
- The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1 of this document. The test bandwidth is 20
MHz Bandwidth as described by E-TM1.1.
- The O-RU must have a conducted antenna port to be connected to a signal analyser.
- The signal analyser must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel.
C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions
- Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation
using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.
- Connect the signal analyser to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors under test and configure the
analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.
- Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.
b. Procedure
- Build an appropriate IQ signal described above in the CUSM-E.
- Use the CUSM-E control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal.
- Every symbol should be described by a single type 1 section (DL-SCH and DCI) except symbols#6 which
will be used for the reMask test.
- The data in this section must be a PN23 sequence using an initial seed of all ones. The first bits of the
PN23 will be in PRB1 and continue in consecutive resource elements to the end of PRB5. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.
- Symbol number #6 should be stock data Section Type “D” as shown above.
- This test will only be using PRBs 1 through 5. The corresponding C-Plane message will contain a section
IDs in a single C-Plane message describing symbol #6.
- The startSymbolId in the application header will be symbol #6.
- The C-Plane message will have one section with the reMask set to only the odd number resource
elements. The number of PRBs will be 5. The start PRB will be 1.
- The corresponding U-Plane message will be a new PN23 Sequence (initial seed is all ones) in PRBs 1
through 5 of symbol #6. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The signal measured by the signal analyser should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 2. The test frame received by the signal analyser should only contain the same PN23 signals that were sent in the U-Plane but only every other odd resource element.

##### 3.2.3.7.5 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class With Precoding (WPR) TxD
A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to validate the correct implementation of transmit diversity of a Category B O-RU with two antenna ports. TxD uses TM2 (transmission Mode 2). For TxD, information for 2 layers is packed into a PRB for transmission from O-DU and are unpacked at the O-RU. TxD precoding is applied based on the C Plane configuration before RF transmission. Using a standard E-TM1.1 test frame for FDD the CUSM-E (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 3.2.2) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink the standard E-TM1.1 signal. This test is applicable for Category B radios only. B. Test Entrance Criteria
- The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1 of this document. The test bandwidth is 20
MHz Bandwidth as described by E-TM1.1.
- The O-RU must have two conducted antenna ports to be connected to a signal analyser.
- The signal analyser must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel.
- The O-RU must support the Section Extension ExtType=3 parameter as notified by the M-Plane
C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions
- Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation
using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.
- Connect the signal analyser to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors under test and configure the
analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.
- Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.
b. Procedure
- Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the E-TM1.1 signal described above in the CUSM-E.
- Use the CUSM-E control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal.
- Every symbol should be described by a single section (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages.
No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.
- The test configures two antenna ports hence two beamIDs needed (same beamID for user data and CRS
REs). For Antenna Port 0, the beamId is contained in the C-Plane data section header, while the Antenna Ports 1 (“beamIdAP1”) is contained in the ExtType=3.
- Configure different eAxCs are used for each layer
- Configure following parameters in the Section Extension ExtType=3
o codebookIndex - ‘00000000’ (invalid) o layerID (Layer ID for DL transmission) - layer ID that are used for DL transmission o txScheme (transmission scheme) - ’txD’ o numLayers (number of layers used for DL transmission) - 0001 (implies 2) o crsReMask (CRS resource element mask) o crsSymlNum (CRS symbol number indication) o crsShift (crsShift used for DL transmission)
- Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows
described in clause 3.2.3.4.
- Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate
and decode the test frame. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The signal measured by the signal analyser should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 2. The test frame received by the signal analyser should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data. 3. The signal relation between antenna ports or TAB connectors under test should match the expected result for Tx Diversity transmission as specified in ETSI TS 136.141 clause 4.5.1.1.

##### 3.2.3.7.6 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class With Precoding (WPR) SM
A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to validate the correct implementation of TM3/4 Spatial Multiplexing transmission mode for a Category B O-RU with two antenna ports. For TM3/4 Spatial Multiplexing, information for 2 layers is packed into a PRB for transmission from O-DU and are unpacked at the O-RU, subsequently TM3/4 based precoding is applied based on the C Plane configuration before over the air transmission. Using a standard E-TM1.1 test frame for FDD the CUSM-E (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 3.2.2) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink the standard E-TM1.1 signal. This test is applicable for Category B radios only. B. Test Entrance Criteria
- The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1 of this document. The test bandwidth is 20
MHz Bandwidth as described by E-TM1.1.
- The signal analyser must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel.
- The O-RU must support the Section Extension ExtType=3 parameter as notified by the M-Plane
- The O-RU must have at least two conducted antenna ports (or TAB connectors) to be connected to a signal
analyser.
- The TER with connections to the O-RU must be calibrated.
C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions
- Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using
M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.
- Connect the signal analyser to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors under test and configure the
analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.
- Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.
b. Procedure
- Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the E-TM1.1 signal described above in the CUSM-E.
- Use the CUSM-E control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal.
- Every symbol should be described by a single section (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages.
No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.
- The test configures two antenna ports. Therefore, two beamIDs are needed. The same beamID is used for
user data and CRS REs. o For Antenna Port 0, the beamId is contained in the C-Plane data section header, while the Antenna Ports 1 (“beamIdAP1”) is contained in the ExtType=3
- Configure following parameters in the Section Extension ExtType=3 as defined in CUS Plane Specification
[2]. o codebookIndex - indices of the precoder codebook that are used for precoding o layerID (Layer ID for DL transmission) - layer ID that are used for DL transmission o txScheme (transmission scheme) – set to Spatial multiplexing (no CDD) o numLayers (number of layers used for DL transmission) – set to 0001 (implies 2) o crsReMask (CRS resource element mask) o crsSymlNum (CRS symbol number indication) o crsShift (crsShift used for DL transmission)
- Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows
described in clause 3.2.3.4.
- Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to
demodulate and decode the test frame. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The signal measured by the signal analyser should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 2. The test frame received by the signal analyser should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data. 3. The signal relation between antenna ports or TAB connectors under test should match the expected result for MIMO transmission as specified in ETSI TS 136.141 clause 4.5.1.1.

#### 3.2.3.8 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Section Type 3 (ST3)
This clause will specify the test scenarios to validate the correct decoding of C-Plane messages with Section Type 3. The required test setup is shown in clause 2.1, where only a stimulus RF signal is applied.

##### 3.2.3.8.1 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class ST3 Test #1: NR PRACH
A. Test Description and Applicability {MANDATORY} This test is MANDATORY. This test will validate the correct decoding of C-Plane messages containing Section Type 3 in 5G NR scenario by testing the correct detection of a PRACH signal. TER will setup the signal generator with a PRACH test waveform according to ETSI TS 138.211 clause 6.3.3, ETSI TS 138.141-1 clause 8.4.1 and A.6. The test waveform will contain the same preamble ID for every occasion repeated by following the timing offset scheme specified in the figures 8.4.1.4.2-2 or 8.4.1.4.2-3 ETSI TS 138.141-1 depending on the selected PRACH format. This is an example for FR1 – SCS=30 kHz – BW=100MHz – Format A3, on each occasion the time offset of the same preamble index (selected according to Table A.6-1 ETSI TS 138.141.1) is incremented by 100nsec starting from 0 up to 800nsec (9 occasions per frame). Each PRACH occasion is at the beginning of the first nine used sub- frames. The scheme is repeated every frame. According to the PRACH waveform setting, the TER will generate a corresponding sequence of C-Plane messages with Section Type 3. By the corresponding U-Plane messages in the uplink direction, the TER will try to detect the presence of the corresponding preamble at the expected timing offset and calculate the probability of detection Pd according to the definition in TS38.141-1 clause 8.4.1.1. The signal will be exercised at only one O-RU port without adding any external AWGN power level or multipath fading profile and at a power level avoiding detection errors due to poor SNR (rule described in C of this scenario class). B. Test Entrance Criteria O-RU must have a conducted antenna port (FR1) or TAB connector. By the M-plane, TER will detect all the supported SCSs for PUSCH and PRACH, supported PRACH format and carrier bandwidths by the O-RU. To test the correct interpretation of Section Type 3, it is assumed that only one combination of the three above parameters supported by the O-RU is enough to validate the test. TER will choose the format either according to the PRACH Configuration Index in ETSI TS 138.211 clause 6.3.3 Table 6.3.3.2-2 and the available frequency resource, or according to the PRACH Configuration Index in ETSI TS 138.211 clause

### 6.3.3 Table 6.3.3.2-2, or according to the manufacturer declaration item D.103 “PRACH format and SCS” in ETSI
TS 138.141-1 or according to the format information obtained by the M-plane in case O-RU implements this feature. TER shall generate M-Plane messages conformant to the selected format. If more formats are claimed, only one shall be selected to reduce the test time, preference will be given to a format specified in Table A.6.1 ETSI TS 138.141. It is assumed that the O-RU manufacturer will support at least one in that table. For the case of long preambles, it is assumed format 0 is always supported since the only one shown in the Table A.6-1 ETSI TS 138.141. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions The O-RU is synchronized using G.8275.1. The signal generator is connected to the antenna port under test and synchronized to the same frequency reference of the O-RU. CUSM-E has completed the activation of one carrier on the O-RU port and enabled one endpoint supporting Section Type 3. The endpoint is configured with no data compression. b. Procedure 1. Set signal generator power to at least 30 dB above the setting used in the 3GPP receiver sensitivity test described in ETSI TS 138.141-1 clause 7.2.5. 2. Set signal generator frequency offset to the central carrier frequency. PRACH will be mapped over frequency according to msg1-FrequencyStart (nstart ) parameter equal to 0. PRACH format is set according to what TER RA has selected from the manufacturer declarations. 3. Start PRACH waveform generation on the signal generator. Ensure the test frame is repeated enough times to generate a statistically significant number of SRS occasions. That is at least 10 occasions. 4. Configure CUSM-E to generate C-Plane Section Type 3 messages according to the PRACH occasions described in subsection A and by the following approach: a. In case of a PRACH format with preamble repetitions or not including preamble repetitions, only one C-Plane message with one section ID is generated per PRACH occasion. O-DU emulator will set “cpLength” field according to TS 138the format specified in clauses 7.5.2.14 and 4.4.3 of [2]. The “timeOffset” field will be set according to the PRACH occasion position inside the slot and by following the format value specified clauses 7.5.2.12 and 4.4.3 of [2]. b. In both scenarios “filterIndex” field is setup based on the PRACH format and according to Table 7.5.2.3-1 of [2] and “beamId” field will set to 0 (no beamforming). 5. TER will perform PRACH detection per each PRACH occasion and compare the result with the expected preamble ID and the expected timing offset. Since the external AWGN and fading generator are not present the time error tolerance should be low, TER will use the time error tolerance in Table 8.4.1.1-1 for AWGN case according to the corresponding PRACH format and PRACH SCS. A counter of successful detections is incremented at every matching. The probability of detection is given by the ratio between that counter and the number of the expected received PRACH occasions within the test time. 6. Repeat the test procedure by setting msg1-FrequencyStart (nstart ) parameter to the right edge of the RA configured carrier bandwidth in order to exercise a different frequency offset number in Section Type 3. D. Pass/Fail Criteria (expected result) 1. Test is pass if the probability of detection is 100% determined across the minimum amount of at least 10 occasions.

##### 3.2.3.8.2 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class ST3 Test #2: LTE PRACH
A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. This test will validate the correct decoding of C-Plane messages containing Section Type 3 in LTE scenario by testing the correct detection of a PRACH signal. TER will setup the signal generator with a PRACH test waveform according to ETSI TS 136.211 clause 5.7, ETSI TS 136.141 clause 8.4.1 and A.6. The test waveform will contain the same preamble ID for every occasion repeated by the timing offset scheme specified in the figure 8.4.1.4.2-2 and clause 8.4.1.4.2 ETSI TS 136.141. According to the PRACH waveform setting, TER will generate a corresponding sequence of C-Plane messages with Section Type 3. By the corresponding U-Plane messages in the uplink direction, TER will try to detect the presence of the corresponding preamble at the expected timing offset and calculate the probability of detection Pd according to the definition in TS36.141 clause 8.4.1.1. The signal will be exercised at only one O-RU port without adding any external AWGN power level or multipath fading profile and at a power level avoiding detection errors due to poor SNR (rule described in the sub-section C of this scenario class). B. Test Entrance Criteria O-RU must have a conducted antenna port (FR1) or TAB connector. By the M-plane, TER will detect all the supported SCSs for PUSCH and PRACH, supported PRACH format and carrier bandwidths by the O-RU. To test the correct interpretation of Section Type 3, it is assumed that only one combination of the three above parameters supported by the O-RU is enough to validate the test. TER will choose the PRACH format according to the PRACH Configuration Index in ETSI TS 136.211 clause 5.7 Table 5.7.1-2 and the available frequency resource, or according to the PRACH Configuration Index in ETSI TS 136.211 clause 5.7 M-plane in case O-RU implements this feature. TER shall generate M-Plane messages conformant to the selected format. If more formats are claimed, only one shall be selected to reduce the test time. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions O-RU is synchronized using G.8275.1. signal generator is connected to the antenna port under test and synchronized to the same frequency reference of the O-RU. CUSM-E has completed the activation of one carrier on the O-RU port and enabled one endpoint supporting Section Type 3. The endpoint is configured with no data compression. b. Procedure 1. Set signal generator power to at least 30 dB above the setting used in the 3GPP receiver sensitivity test described in ETSI TS 136.141 clause 7.2.5. 2. Set signal generator frequency offset to the central carrier frequency. PRACH will be mapped over frequency according to prach-FrequencyOffset (𝑛RA ) parameter equal to 0. PRACH format is set according to what PRB offset TER has selected from the manufacturer declarations. 3. Start PRACH waveform generation on the signal generator. Ensure the test frame is repeated enough times to generate a statistically significant number of PRACH occasions. That is at least 10 occasions. 4. Configure CUSM-E to generate C-Plane Section Type 3 messages according to the PRACH occasions described in subsection A and by the following approach: a. In case of a PRACH format with preamble repetitions or not including preamble repetitions, only one C- Plane message with one section ID is generated per PRACH occasion. O-DU emulator will set “cpLength” field according to ETSI TS 138the format specified in clauses 7.5.2.14 and 4.4.3 of [2]. The timeOffset” field will be set according to the PRACH occasion position inside the slot and by following the format value specified clauses 7.5.2.12 and 4.4.3 of [2]. b. In both scenarios “filterIndex” field is setup based on the PRACH format and according to Table 7.5.2.3- of [2] and “beamId” field will set to 0 (no beamforming). 5. The TER will perform PRACH detection per each PRACH occasion and compare the result with the expected preamble ID and the expected timing offset. Since the external AWGN and fading generator are not present, the time error tolerance should be low. The TER will use the time error tolerance defined in clause 8.4.1.1 ETSI TS 136.141 for AWGN (1.04usec). On the TER, a counter is incremented for each successful preamble detection. The probability of detection is given by the ratio between that counter and the number of the expected received PRACH occasions within the test time. 6. Repeat the test procedure by setting 𝑛RA parameter of PRACH to the right edge of the configured carrier PRB offset bandwidth in order to exercise a different frequency offset number in Section Type 3. D. Pass/Fail Criteria (expected result) 1. Test is pass if the probability of detection is 100% determined across the minimum amount of at least 10 occasions.

### 3.2.4 FR1 FDD Non-conducted OTA Signal Tests

#### 3.2.4.1 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class NR testing Generic (NRG)
The generic tests for FR1 FDD Non-conducted OTA are the same as the tests described in clause 3.2.3. Only the setup for the tests is different reflecting the difference between non-conductive and conductive mode testing.

#### 3.2.4.2 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming (BFM)
This clause describes the beamforming conformance testing for O-RAN fronthaul interface. The tests do not aim to test the O-RU beamforming performance or capabilities but to test that the O-RU under test focuses the RF energy or sensitivity into a specific direction and with a specific granularity following the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) C-Plane messages. Unless stated otherwise in a test case, the following statements apply to all the test cases defined in this clause:
- It is based on Over-the-Air (OTA) testing with a setup such as described in clause 2.1 and it may be applied to
any O-RU DUTs, whether the O-RU DUTs have conducted antenna ports or TAB connectors or not.
- It applies to Category A and Category B O-RU DUTs.
- It applies to LTE and/or 5G New Radio O-RU DUTs. In both cases, precoding is not required in any test case.
- If O-RU DUT supports Analog Beamforming (i.e. time domain beamforming), all the U-Plane test frames are
defined by segmenting the Stock Test A: 1 section per symbol. The definition of this Stock Test A can be found in Figure 3.2.1.1-2 and the description accompanying this figure. Each slot shall include multiple sections (one per symbol within the slot) and only one beam at a time (i.e. one beamId at a time) and therefore only one beam can be tested per slot.
- If O-RU DUT supports Digital Beamforming (i.e. frequency domain beamforming), all the U-Plane test frames
are defined by segmenting the Stock Test B: 2 sections per symbol definition as shown in Figure 3.2.1.1-2. Each slot shall include multiple sections (two per symbol within the slot) and only one beam per section at a time (i.e. one beamId at a time) and therefore up to two different beams can be tested per slot.
- If O-RU DUT supports multiple polarizations, it is up to the TER to determine if the testing is carried out for
each polarization separately or multiple polarizations at the same time. In any case, it is important to guarantee that the correct eAxC_ID for the correct polarization (or polarizations) is exercised.
- For O-RU DUT that support LTE:
o Downlink tests will use a standard 3GPP E-TM1.1 test frame for FDD (clause 6.1.1.1 TS 136.141) with 20MHz bandwidth (100 RB) as shown in Figure 3.2.4.2-1. If 20MHz is not supported by the O-RU DUT, then it will use the highest bandwidth supported by the O- RU DUT. o Uplink test will use a standard 3GPP UL FRC Configuration definition for FDD (TS36.521-1) and power levels at least 30dB above Reference Sensitivity power level with 20MHz bandwidth (100 RB) as shown in Figure 3.2.4.2-2. If 20MHz is not supported by the O-RU DUT, then it will use the highest bandwidth supported by the O- RU DUT.
- For O-RU DUT that support 5G NR:
o Downlink tests will use a standard 3GPP NR-FR1-TM1.1 test frame for FDD in [19] (clause 4.9.2 TS138.141-1) of the Conducted Transmitter Characteristic Test (clause 6 TS138.141-1) as described in clause 3.2.1.1. The test numerology will be preferably 30kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth. If not supported, then it will use any other supported subcarrier spacing and the highest bandwidth of the O-RU DUT. o Uplink tests will use a standard 3GPP G-FR1-A1-5 Reference Sensitivity level definition (clause 7.2 and Annex A TS138.141-1) of the Conducted Receiver Characteristic Test (clause 7 ETSI TS 138.141) and power levels at least 30dB above Reference Sensitivity power level as described in clause 3.2.1.1. The test numerology will be preferably 30kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth, if supported. Otherwise, it will use any available subcarrier space and the highest bandwidth supported by the O-RU DUT.
- Radiated tests coordinate system is based on the coordinate system defined in clause 12.5.2 of [2].
- The O-RU DUT must:
o support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.2 of this document. o have installed current release of shipping software. o be fully calibrated up to Radiated Interface Boundary (RIB). It is expected to be calibrated by O-RU vendor prior to testing.
- The TER must:
o be capable of carrying out any signal processing required to generate and demodulate 3GPP compliant waveforms. o be able to calculate or extract the beam direction via OTA measurements. o be able to generate and deliver signals with the required beam direction at the RIB point. o be fully calibrated up to the interface where it interacts with the DUT’s RIB. For that, a known test signal might be either injected by the TER into the O-RU DUT, or internally generated by the O-RU DUT, and the O-RU DUT must not apply any digital or analogue beam direction to the known test signal. One possible method to perform calibration uses injected C-Plane and U-Plane signals from TER into the O-RU and using C-Plane messages with beamID=0. Alternatively, calibration methods for radiated test setups that are described in ETSI TR 137.941 can be used.
- The O-DU emulator of the TER must:
o be capable of generating and sending U-Plane messages containing 3GPP test frames following the corresponding Stock sectioning defined above, as well as be capable of capturing U-Plane messages and extracting 3GPP test frames (i.e. IQ data) from the captured U-Plane messages. o be capable of generating the C-Plane messages for, receiving, extracting and demodulating the 3GPP test frames following the corresponding Stock sectioning defined above.
- The TER might have a single test antenna if a single beam direction and polarization is measured at a time, or
multiple test antennas if multiple beam directions and/or polarizations are measured at the same time.
- It is up to the TER on how to extract the beam direction and beam properties at the DUT’s RIB in
order to match it with the manufacturer’s declaration.
- The user payload will be generated as PN23 with a seed of all ones.
- It applies to the following O-RAN CUS Specification [2]:
o Clause 7.4 o Clause 8.3.2 o Clause 8.3.3 o Clause 12 o Annex J

##### 3.2.4.2.1 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – No Beamforming
B. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit a basic 3GPP test frame with no beamforming (beamId=0x000) and with one spatial stream (single eAxC). B. Test Entrance Criteria
- Manufacturers’ declaration that defines list of beam directions when O-RU DUT is operating with no
beamforming. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions
- Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using
M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.
- Ensure that the test antenna/s and TER equipment is calibrated within acceptable tolerance.
- Place the test antenna/s to a defined position within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2 and configure
the analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.
- Place the O-RU into a test calibrated point within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.
- Align the O-RU to a default initial position, i.e. align the O-RU to the origin of coordinates of the declared
coordinate reference point and orientation in the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.
- Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.
b. Procedure a. Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator. b. Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by either one or two sections (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. c. Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.2. d. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame. e. Measure any metric/s that allows for extracting the transmitted beam direction from a single measurement, i.e. transform-based techniques, or take as many measurements as possible of any metric/s from multiple angles, by for example rotating the O-RU, that allows for extracting beam direction from multiple measurement, i.e. beam scanning. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The signal measured by the signal analyser at the expected transmitted beam direction should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 2. The test frame received at the expected transmitted beam direction by the signal analyser should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data. 3. The extracted beam direction is defined as the direction where the best metric/s were measured (i.e. best EVM, power, SNR, etc.) and should match the expected beam direction for the expected no beamforming within a tolerance defined by the manufacturer.

##### 3.2.4.2.2 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – No Beamforming
A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can receive a basic 3GPP test frame with no beamforming (beamId=0x000) and with one spatial stream (single eAxC). B. Test Entrance Criteria
- Manufacturers’ declaration that defines list of beam directions when O-RU DUT is operating with no
beamforming. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions
- Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using
M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.
- Ensure that the test antenna/s and TER equipment is calibrated within acceptable tolerance.
- Place the test antenna/s to a defined position within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2 and configure
the signal source with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and generate the test signal.
- Place the O-RU into a test calibrated point within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.
- Align the O-RU to a default initial position, i.e. align the O-RU to the origin of coordinates of the declared
coordinate reference point and orientation in the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.
- Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.
b. Procedure a. Build an appropriate test signal described above in the signal source of the TER. b. Inject the test signal into the O-RU with the application of an initial beam direction. This initial beam direction could be the boresight direction of the receiver antenna array. c. Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by either one or two sections (UL-SCH) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. d. Play the C plane messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.2 while also triggering the signal source. e. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the DUT, allow it to create and send the U plane messages to the O-DU. f. Allow the O-DU to demodulate, decode and extract the payload and to measure and extract any required metric/s from the received signal that will be used later to determine what is the best received direction. g. Repeat the previous steps but now in step b apply a different beam direction when injecting the test signal into the O-RU. Repeating the process for a number of different beam directions will exercise the reception of the test signal from different beam directions. This allows to determine if the O-RU is really focusing the sensitivity to the correct beam direction. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The test frame received at the expected beam direction by the TER/O-DU should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data. 2. The extracted beam direction is defined as the direction where the best metric/s were measured (i.e. best EVM, power, SNR, etc.) and should match the expected beam direction for the expected no beamforming within a tolerance defined by the manufacturer.

##### 3.2.4.2.3 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Predefined-beam
Beamforming A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit a basic 3GPP test frame with predefined-beams beamforming (beamId≠0x000) and with one spatial stream (single eAxC). The transmitted beam direction is measured for each indexed beam required in this measurement, see below. The measured transmitted direction is compared to manufacturer-designated direction. Transmitted direction is defined by extracting the beam direction. The elevation θ and azimuth Φ angles are defined as in clause 12.4.2.2 of [2]. The UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Predefined-beam Beamforming conformance test might include multiple tests that the O-RU must comply: a. “Coarse” beamIds test: If O-RU supports and reports beamIds that are defined as coarse granularity (coarse beamIds) to the O-DU emulator, the test should include the following beams: 1. A beam with 0 degrees azimuth (Φ) and elevation (θ) angles. 2. A beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ). 3. A beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ). 4. A beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ). 5. A beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ). If the O-RU only supports one azimuth (Φ) or elevation angle (θ), fewer than 5 beam angles will be measured. B. Test Entrance Criteria
- Manufacturers’ defined list of beam indices and their associated beam directions with antenna array
characteristics. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions
- Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using
M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.
- Ensure that the test antenna/s and TER equipment is calibrated within acceptable tolerance.
- Place the test antenna/s to a defined position within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2 and configure
the analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.
- Place the O-RU into a test calibrated point within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.
- Align the O-RU to a default initial position, i.e. align the O-RU to the origin of coordinates of the declared
coordinate reference point and orientation in the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.
- Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.
b. Procedure a. Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator. b. Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by either one or two sections (DL- SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. c. Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.2. d. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame. e. Measure any metric/s that allows for extracting the transmitted beam direction from a single measurement, i.e. transform-based techniques, or take as many measurements as possible of any metric/s from multiple angles, by for example rotating the O-RU, that allows for extracting beam direction from multiple measurement, i.e. beam scanning. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The signal measured by the signal analyser at the expected transmitted beam direction should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 2. The test frame received at the expected transmitted beam direction by the signal analyser should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data. 3. The extracted beam direction is defined as the direction where the best metric/s were measured (i.e. best EVM, power, SNR, etc.) and should match the expected beam direction for the beam under test within a tolerance defined by the manufacturer.

##### 3.2.4.2.4 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – Predefined-beam
Beamforming A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can receive a basic 3GPP test frame with predefined-beams beamforming (beamId≠0x000) and with one spatial stream (single eAxC). The same description and criteria for selecting the beams to be tested applies as in clause 3.2.4.2.3 applies, but instead it is related to the uplink direction. B. Test Entrance Criteria
- Manufacturers’ defined list of beam indices and their associated beam directions with antenna array
characteristics. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions
- Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using
M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.
- Ensure that the test antenna/s and TER equipment is calibrated within acceptable tolerance.
- Place the test antenna/s to a defined position within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2 and configure
the signal source with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and generate the test signal.
- Place the O-RU into a test calibrated point within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.
- Align the O-RU to a default initial position, i.e. align the O-RU to the origin of coordinates of the declared
coordinate reference point and orientation in the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.
- Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range
b. Procedure a. Build an appropriate test signal described above in the signal source of the TER. b. Inject the test signal into the O-RU with the application of an initial beam direction. This initial beam direction could be the boresight direction of the receiver antenna array. c. Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by either one or two sections (UL-SCH) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. d. Play the C plane messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.2 while also triggering the signal source. e. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the DUT, allow it to create and send the U plane messages to the O-DU. f. Allow the O-DU to demodulate, decode and extract the payload and to measure and extract any required metric/s from the received signal that will be used later to determine what is the best received direction. g. Repeat the previous steps but now in step b apply a different beam direction when injecting the test signal into the O-RU. Repeating the process for a number of different beam directions will exercise the reception of the test signal from different beam directions. This allows to determine if the O-RU is really focusing the sensitivity to the correct beam direction. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The test frame received at the expected beam direction by the TER/O-DU should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data. 2. The extracted beam direction is defined as the direction where the best metric/s were measured (i.e. best EVM, power, SNR, etc.) and should match the expected beam direction for the beam under test within a tolerance defined by the manufacturer.

##### 3.2.4.2.5 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Weight-based
Dynamic Beamforming A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit a basic 3GPP test frame with weight-based dynamic beamforming with one spatial stream (single eAxC). The transmitted beam direction is measured for each weighted beam required in this measurement, see below. The measured transmitted direction is compared to manufacturer-designated direction. Transmitted direction is defined by extracting the beam direction. The elevation θ and azimuth Φ angles are defined in clause 12.4.2.2 of [2]. The UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Weight-based Dynamic Beamforming conformance test should evaluate the following beams for the O-RU to comply: a. A weight-based beam with 0 degrees azimuth (Φ) and elevation (θ) angles. b. A weight-based beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ). c. A weight-based beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ). d. A weight-based beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ). e. A weight-based beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ). If the O-RU only supports one azimuth (Φ) or elevation angle (θ), fewer than 5 beam angles will be measured. The user/tester selects the bitwidth for the mantissa or scaler of the compression method applied to the beams. The UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Weight—based Dynamic Beamforming conformance test should also evaluate the following compression methods for each of the supported beams described above (a. to e.) for the O-RU to comply: a. No compression method applied to the beamforming weights. b. Block floating point compression method applied to the beamforming weights with the selected number of bit mantissa. c. Block scaling compression method applied to the beamforming weights with the selected number of bit scaler. d. μ-law compression method applied to the beamforming weights with the selected number of bit fixed width. e. Depending on what type of Beamspace compression the DUT supports, either Beamspace compression method applied to the beamforming weights with the selected number of bit scaler, or Beamspace compression method applied to the beamforming weights with the selected number of bit mantissa. If the O-RU does not support all the compression methods described above, fewer than 5 compression methods will be measured. B. Test Entrance Criteria
- Manufacturers’ defined list of frequency domain (ϕ) and/or time domain (θ) weights and their associated beam
directions with antenna array characteristics C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions
- Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation
using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.
- Ensure that the test antenna/s and TER equipment is calibrated within acceptable tolerance.
- Place the test antenna/s to a defined position within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2 and configure
the analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.
- Place the O-RU into a test calibrated point within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.
- Align the O-RU to a default initial position, i.e. align the O-RU to the origin of coordinates of the declared
coordinate reference point and orientation in the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.
- Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.
b. Procedure a. Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator. b. Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by one or two sections (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages, the sections in the first symbol of the slot will contain section extension extType=0x01 to convey the beam weights, it is not required that the next sections contain extension type 1 since the same beam IDs will not change along the slot. If O-RU does not support a field, then its value should be 0x0. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. c. Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. d. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame. e. Measure any metric/s that allows for extracting the transmitted beam direction from a single measurement, i.e. transform-based techniques, or take as many measurements as possible of any metric/s from multiple angles, by for example rotating the O-RU, that allows for extracting beam direction from multiple measurement, i.e. beam scanning. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The signal measured by the signal analyser at the expected transmitted beam direction should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 2. The test frame received at the expected transmitted beam direction by the signal analyser should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data. 3. The extracted beam direction is defined as the direction where the best metric/s were measured (i.e. best EVM, power, SNR, etc.) and should match the expected beam direction for the beam under test within a tolerance defined by the manufacturer.

##### 3.2.4.2.6 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – Weight-based
Dynamic Beamforming A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can receive a basic 3GPP test frame with weight-based beamforming and with one spatial stream (single eAxC). The same description and criteria for selecting the beams to be tested applies as in clause 3.2.3.2.5 but applies to the uplink direction. B. Test Entrance Criteria
- Manufacturers’ defined list of frequency domain (ϕ) and/or time domain (θ) weights and their associated beam
directions with antenna array characteristics. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions
- Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using
M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.
- Ensure that the test antenna/s and TER equipment is calibrated within acceptable tolerance.
- Place the test antenna/s to a defined position within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2 and configure
the signal source with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and generate the test signal.
- Place the O-RU into a test calibrated point within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.
- Align the O-RU to a default initial position, i.e. align the O-RU to the origin of coordinates of the declared
coordinate reference point and orientation in the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.
- Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.
b. Procedure a. Build an appropriate test signal described above in the signal source of the TER. b. Inject the test signal into the O-RU with the application of an initial beam direction. This initial beam direction could be the boresight direction of the receiver antenna array. c. Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by one or two sections (UL-SCH) using Section Type 1 messages, the sections in the first symbol of the slot will contain section extension extType=0x01 to convey the beam weights, it is not required that the next sections contain extension type 1 since the same beam IDs will not change along the slot. If O-RU does not support a field, then its value should be 0x0. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. d. Play the C plane messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.2 while also triggering the signal source. e. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the DUT, allow it to create and send the U plane messages to the O-DU and for the O-DU to demodulate, decode and extract the payload. f. Repeat the previous steps but now in step b apply a different beam direction when injecting the test signal into the O-RU. Repeating the process for a number of different beam directions will exercise the reception of the test signal from different beam directions. This allows to determine if the O-RU is really focusing the sensitivity to the correct beam direction. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The test frame received at the expected beam direction by the TER/O-DU should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data. 2. The extracted beam direction is defined as the direction where the best metric/s were measured (i.e. best EVM, power, SNR, etc.) and should match the expected beam direction for the beam under test within a tolerance defined by the manufacturer.

##### 3.2.4.2.7 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Attribute-based
Dynamic Beamforming A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit a basic 3GPP test frame with attributed-based dynamic beamforming with one spatial stream (single eAxC). If the O-RU DUT supports Attribute based Dynamic Beamforming, this test is mandatory for the O-RU DUT to be O-RAN conformant. The transmitted beam direction and attributes are measured for each attributed beam required in this measurement, see below. The measured transmitted direction and attributes, i.e. pointing azimuth and elevation angles, beamwidths and sidelobe suppression, is compared to manufacturer-designated direction and attributes. Transmitted direction and beam attributes are defined extracting the beam properties. The elevation θ and azimuth Φ angles are defined as in clause 12.4.2.2 of [2]. The UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Attribute-based Dynamic Beamforming conformance test should evaluate the following beams for the O-RU to comply: a. An attribute-based beam with 0 degrees azimuth (Φ) and elevation (θ) angles with any beamwidth and sidelobe suppression supported by the O-RU under this beam direction. b. An attribute-based beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ) with the widest beamwidth and lowest sidelobe suppression supported for this specific beam direction. c. An attribute-based beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ) with the narrowest beamwidth and highest sidelobe suppression supported for this specific beam direction. d. An attribute-based beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ) with the widest beamwidth and lowest sidelobe suppression supported for this specific beam direction. e. An attribute-based beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ) with the narrowest beamwidth and highest sidelobe suppression supported for this specific beam direction. If the O-RU only supports one azimuth (Φ) or elevation angle (θ), fewer than 5 beam angles and attribute configurations will be measured. B. Test Entrance Criteria
- Manufacturers’ defined list of supported beam attributes that are supported by the O-RU and/or their
associated beam directions with antenna array characteristics. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions
- Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation
using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.
- Ensure that the test antenna/s and TER equipment is calibrated within acceptable tolerance.
- Place the test antenna/s to a defined position within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2 and configure
the analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.
- Place the O-RU into a test calibrated point within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.
- Align the O-RU to a default initial position, i.e. align the O-RU to the origin of coordinates of the declared
coordinate reference point and orientation in the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.
- Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.
b. Procedure a. Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator. b. Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by one or two sections (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages, the sections in the first symbol of the slot will contain section extension extType=0x02 to convey the beam weights, it is not required that the next sections contain extension type 2 since the same beam IDs will not change along the slot. If O-RU does not support a field, then its value should be 0x0. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. c. Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. d. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame. e. Measure any metric/s that allows for extracting the transmitted beam attributes from a single measurement, i.e. transform-based techniques, or take as many measurements as possible of any metric/s from multiple angles, by for example rotating the O-RU, that allows for extracting beam attributes from multiple measurement, i.e. beam scanning. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The signal measured at the expected beam direction by the signal analyser should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 2. The test frame received by the signal analyser should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data. 3. The extracted beam attributes are referenced from the measured beam direction where the best metric/s were measured (i.e. best EVM, power, SNR, etc.) and should match the expected beam direction and attributes for the beam under test within a tolerance defined by the manufacturer.

##### 3.2.4.2.8 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – Attribute-based
Dynamic Beamforming A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can receive a basic 3GPP test frame with attribute-based beamforming with one spatial stream (single eAxC). Same description and criteria for selecting the beams to be tested applies as in clause 3.2.3.2.7 but considering uplink direction. B. Test Entrance Criteria
- Manufacturers’ defined list of supported beam attributes that are supported by the O-RU and/or their
associated beam directions with antenna array characteristics. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions
- Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using
M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.
- Ensure that the test antenna/s and TER equipment is calibrated within acceptable tolerance.
- Place the test antenna/s to a defined position within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2 and configure
the analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.
- Place the O-RU into a test calibrated point within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.
- Align the O-RU to a default initial position, i.e. align the O-RU to the origin of coordinates of the declared
coordinate reference point and orientation in the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.
- Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.
b. Procedure a. Build an appropriate test signal described above in the signal source of the TER. b. Inject the test signal into the O-RU with the application of an initial beam direction. This initial beam direction could be the boresight direction of the receiver antenna array. c. Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by one or two sections (UL-SCH) using Section Type 1 messages, the sections in the first symbol of the slot will contain section extension extType=0x02 to convey the beam weights, it is not required that the next sections contain extension type 2 since the same beam IDs will not change along the slot. If O-RU does not support a field, then its value should be 0x0. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. d. Play the C plane messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.12 while also triggering the signal source. e. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the DUT, allow it to create and send the U plane messages to the O-DU and for the O-DU to demodulate, decode and extract the payload. f. Repeat the previous steps but now in step b apply a different beam direction when injecting the test signal into the O-RU. Repeating the process for a number of different beam directions will exercise the reception of the test signal from different beam directions. This allows to determine if the O-RU is really focusing the sensitivity to the correct beam direction with the correct beam attributes. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The test frame received at the expected beam direction by the TER/O-DU should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data. 2. The extracted beam attributes are referenced from the measured beam direction where the best metric/s were measured (i.e. best EVM, power, SNR, etc.) and should match the expected beam direction and attributes for the beam under test within a tolerance defined by the manufacturer.

##### 3.2.4.2.9 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Channel-Information- based Beamforming
A. Test Description and Applicability This Test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit a basic 3GPP test frame with channel-information-based beamforming with multiple spatial streams from multiple users (i.e. MU-MIMO). For Category A radios, the test is for each polarization separately and consequently either different or same channel models can be defined for each of the polarization. For Category B, same channel might be used for both polarizations and the test might measure each polarization separately. The transmitted beam direction is measured for each scenario required in this measurement. The measured transmitted direction is extracted from the decoded received signal in the TER. Transmitted direction is defined by properly receiving a data transmission between the O-RU and the target User Equipment while destroying or heavily attenuating the data transmission between the O-RU and the other User Equipment. The UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Channel-Information-based Beamforming conformance test should evaluate the following scenarios for the O-RU to comply and will rely on TER Channel Emulation capabilities as shown in Figure 3.2.4.2-3. A scenario where two spatial streams, or eAxC flows, are generated for two users (one layer each) with M antennas ports or TAB connectors. The O-DU will report to the O-RU via C plane messages an channel estimate 𝐻 ≜ [ℎ1,...,ℎ𝑀,ℎ1,...,ℎ𝑀]∈ℂ2𝑥𝑀, which is the effective channel as seen by the antennas representing the multiple

##### 3.2.4.2.10 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – Channel-Information- based Beamforming
A. Test Description and Applicability This Test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can receive a basic 3GPP test frame with channel-information-based beamforming with multiple spatial streams from multiple users (i.e. MU-MIMO). Same description and criteria for selecting the beams to be tested applies as in clause 3.2.3.2.10 but considering the uplink direction. B. Test Entrance Criteria
- The O-RU must have at least two TRX chains with radiating sensing antennas.
- The TER equipment must include 2 antennas with sufficient separation to emulate the 2 users such that the O-
RU can equalize out the mutual interference of the users due to the effective MU-MIMO channel.
- The TER equipment must have at least two probe transmitting antennas to radiate the test signals to the O-RU.
- The TER equipment must either include a channel emulator between the signal generator and the probe
transmitting antennas or the signal generator be capable of applying the required channel matrix being emulated between the users and the O-RU.
- Manufacturers’ defined list of number of TRX chains and what antennas are connected to each TRX chain.
C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions
- Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation
using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.
- Ensure that the test antenna/s and TER equipment is calibrated within acceptable tolerance.
- Place the test antenna/s to a defined position within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2 with sufficient
separation for effective MU-MIMO beamforming and configure the generator with any set-up information needed to transmit the signals from the 2 UEs.
- Place the O-RU into a test calibrated point within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.
- Align the O-RU to a default initial position, i.e. align the O-RU to the origin of coordinates of the declared
coordinate reference point and orientation in the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.
- Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.
b. Procedure a. Build an appropriate test signal for each of the 2 users as described above in the signal sources of the TER using a different seed to initialize the PN23 data for each user. b. Inject the test signals through a channel emulator or apply the required signal processing to emulate the channel under test. c. Radiate the resulting test signals over the air into the antennas of the O-RU. d. Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by either one or two sections (UL-SCH) using Section Type 5 and 6. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. e. Play the C plane messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 2.4. while also triggering the signal source. f. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the DUT, allow it to create and send the U plane messages to the O-DU and for the O-DU to demodulate, decode and extract the payload for each of the users. D. Test Requirement (expected result) The test frame received by the TER/O-DU for each of the expected User – layer - should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data.

#### 3.2.4.3 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression (CMP)
The compression tests for FR1 FDD Non-conducted OTA are the same as the tests described in clause 3.2.3.3. Only the setup for the tests is different reflecting the difference between non-conductive and conductive mode testing.

#### 3.2.4.4 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Delay Management (DLM)
The delay management tests for FR1 FDD Non-conducted OTA are the same as the tests described in clause 3.2.3.4. Only the setup for the tests is different reflecting the difference between non-conductive and conductive mode testing.

#### 3.2.4.5 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Transport (TRN)
This test is for future study.

#### 3.2.4.6 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class LAA (LAA)
The LAA tests for FR1 FDD Non-conducted OTA are the same as the tests described in clause 3.2.3.6. Only the setup for the tests is different reflecting the difference between non-conductive and conductive mode testing.

#### 3.2.4.7 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class LTE (LTE)
The test description is the same as in clause 3.2.3.7. FR1 FDD Conducted UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class LTE. Only difference is that the test setup is as described in clause 3.2.1.1.2 Non-conducted OTA FDD tests for FR1 radios. In addition, depending on the tests, it will require one of the following two setups.

##### 3.2.4.7.1 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Base 3GPP DL
The test description, execution and pass criteria are the same as described in clause 3.2.3.7.1. The only difference is that the test setup is as described in clause 3.2.1.1.2 Non-conducted OTA FDD tests for FR1 radios with a single signal analyser setup as described above in Figure 3.2.4.7-1. A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit a basic 3GPP test frame using the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.1 of this document except for only one spatial stream on one antenna will be used. This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required). As per E-TM1.1 all user data in this test will be zeros. The test will be conducted. B. Test Entrance Criteria
- The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.1 of this document. The test bandwidth is 20
MHz Bandwidth as described by E-TM1.1.
- The signal analyser must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel.
C. Procedure a. Initial Conditions
- Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using
M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. 23
- Ensure that the test antenna/s and TER equipment is calibrated within acceptable tolerance.
- Place the test antenna/s to a defined position within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2 and configure
the analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.
- Place the O-RU into a test calibrated point within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.
- Align the O-RU to a default initial position, i.e. align the O-RU to the origin of coordinates of the declared
coordinate reference point and orientation in the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.
- Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.
b. Procedure
- Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the E-TM1.1 signal described above in the CUSM-E.
- Use the CUSM-E control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal.
Every symbol should be described by a single section (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages.
- The data in the sections must be all zeros sequence.
- No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.
- Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing
windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The signal measured by the signal analyser should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 2. The test frame received by the signal analyser should be the same as the signal described above. If it contains all the same PRB assignments and all zero data, the test passes.

##### 3.2.4.7.2 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended 3GPP DL – Resource Allocation
The test description, execution and pass criteria are the same as described in clause 3.2.3.7.2. The only difference is that the test setup is as described in clause 3.2.1.1.2 with a single signal analyser setup as described above in Figure 3.2.4.7-1. A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can accurately interpret C-Plane resource allocation messages, transfer U-Plane data into the correct resource blocks and transmit this data accurately in the downlink. This test requires non-zero data to populate all allocated resource blocks. This data will be a PN23 sequence with a seed value of all ones. This test is applicable for both Category A and Category B radios. B. Test Entrance Criteria
- The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1 of this document. The test bandwidth is 20
MHz Bandwidth as described by E-TM1.1.
- The signal analyser must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel.
C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions
- Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using
M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.
- Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.
- Ensure that the test antenna/s and TER equipment is calibrated within acceptable tolerance.
- Place the test antenna/s to a defined position within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2 and configure
the analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.
- Place the O-RU into a test calibrated point within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.
- Align the O-RU to a default initial position, i.e. align the O-RU to the origin of coordinates of the declared
coordinate reference point and orientation in the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2. b. Procedure
- Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the E-TM1.1 signal described above in the CUSM-E.
- Use the CUSM-E control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal. Every
symbol should be described by a single section (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages.
- The data in the sections must be a PN23 sequence using an initial seed of all ones.
- No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.
- Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows
described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The signal measured by the signal analyser should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 2. The test frame received by the signal analyser should be the same as the signal described above. It contains all the same PRB assignments and data the test passes.

##### 3.2.4.7.3 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended 3GPP UL – Resource Allocation
The test description, execution and pass criteria are the same as described in clause 3.2.3.7.3. The only difference is that the test setup is as described in clause 3.2.1.1.2 Non-conducted OTA FDD tests for FR1 radios with a single signal analyser setup as described above in Figure 3.2.4.7-1. A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to validate correct uplink operation of the O-RU using 3GPP Reference Sensitivity level definition (clause 7.2 ETSI TS 136.141) of the Conducted Receiver Characteristic Test (clause 7 ETSI TS 136.104) and power levels at least 30 dB above Reference Sensitivity power Level described in E-TM1.1. This is to improve the likelihood that all data will be received by the radio correctly since we are not interested in testing receiver sensitivity but only the O-RAN protocol compliance. Under those conditions, 3GPP compliant O-RU should deliver uplink U-Plane information that matches with the uplink signal. The TER (Test Equipment, O-RU) generates an uplink signal on the signal generator which is then transmitted over the air via the test antenna, together with the corresponding C-Plane messages on the Fronthaul interface. The TER will capture the U-Plane messages generated by the DUT and validate if the payload matches with the uplink signal. This test is applicable for both Category A and Category B radios. It applies to the O-RAN CUS Specification [2]:
- Clause 7.4
- Clause 8.3.2
- Clause 8.3.3
B. Test Entrance Criteria
- The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1 of this document. The test bandwidth is 20
MHz Bandwidth as described by E-TM1.1.
- The signal analyser must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel.
C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions
- Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation
using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.
- Configure the source to transmit the required 3GPP test signal upon receiving a trigger signal from the
CUSM-ECUSM-E. The signal source power level should be adjusted to setting used in the 3GPP receiver sensitivity test.
- Ensure that the test antenna/s and TER equipment is calibrated within acceptable tolerance.
- Place the test antenna/s to a defined position within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2 and
configure the analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.
- Place the O-RU into a test calibrated point within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.
- Align the O-RU to a default initial position, i.e. align the O-RU to the origin of coordinates of the declared
coordinate reference point and orientation in the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.
- Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.
b. Procedure
- Load uplink test waveform (A1-1) on the RF signal source. Number of allocated RB is 6 as in A1-1 and
the data content is a PN23 sequence.
- Configure signal source to play test waveforms on 10ms frame boundaries starting when it receives a
trigger signal from the CUSM-E that C-Plane messages have been sent.
- Load C-Plane message sequence on Test Equipment O-RU (TER)
- Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul messages
- Launch test to simultaneously play RF uplink frame and C-Plane messages
- Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the Antenna
port
- Extract IQ information
- Extract Payload
- Compare payload binary sequences
D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The verdict is “Test pass” if payload binary sequences match between the uplink test frame sent to the DUT and the received U-Plane data from the DUT 2. If any of the test conditions is not true, the verdict for the whole test is "Fail" 3. If the DUT does not support initial conditions, the test verdict is "Inconclusive"

##### 3.2.4.7.4 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using reMask parameter 3GPP DL –
Resource allocation The test description, execution and pass criteria are the same as described in clause 3.2.3.7.4. The only difference is that the test setup is as described in clause 3.2.1.1.2 Non-conducted OTA FDD tests for FR1 radios with a single signal analyser setup as described above in Figure 3.2.4.7-1. A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can accurately interpret C-Plane resource allocation messages with the reMask parameter set, transfer U-Plane data into the correct resource elements and transmit this data accurately in the downlink. This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required). The test will be conducted therefore there will be no channel distortion or interference. It is mandatory the radio pass this test to be considered O-RAN conformant. This test requires non-zero data to populate all allocated resource blocks. This data will be a PN23 sequence with a seed value of all ones. This test is applicable for both Category A and Category B radios. B. Test Entrance Criteria
- The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1 of this document. The test bandwidth is 20
MHz Bandwidth as described by E-TM1.1.
- The signal analyser must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel.
C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions
- Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation
using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.
- Ensure that the test antenna/s and TER equipment is calibrated within acceptable tolerance.
- Place the test antenna/s to a defined position within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2 and
configure the analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.
- Place the O-RU into a test calibrated point within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.
- Align the O-RU to a default initial position, i.e. align the O-RU to the origin of coordinates of the
declared coordinate reference point and orientation in the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.
- Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.
b. Procedure
- Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the E-TM1.1 signal described above in the CUSM-E.
- Use the CUSM-E control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal.
- Every symbol should be described by a single type 1 section (DL-SCH and DCI) except symbols#6
which will be used for the reMask test.
- The data in this section must be a PN23 sequence using an initial seed of all ones. The first bits of the
PN23 will be in PRB1 and continue in consecutive resource elements to the end of PRB5. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.
- Symbol number #6 should be stock data Section Type “D” as shown above.
- This test will only be using PRBs 1 through 5. The corresponding C-Plane message will contain a
section IDs in a single C-Plane message describing symbol #6.
- The startSymbolId in the application header will be symbol #6.
- The C-Plane message will have one section with the reMask set to only the odd number resource
elements. The number of PRBs will be 4. The start PRB will be 1.
- The corresponding U-Plane message will be a new PN23 Sequence (initial seed is all ones) in PRBs 1
through 5 of symbol #6. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The signal measured by the signal analyser should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 2. The test frame received by the signal analyser should only contain the same PN23 signals that were sent in the U-Plane but only every other odd resource element.

##### 3.2.4.7.5 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class With Precoding (WPR) TxD
The test description, execution and pass criteria are the same as described in clause 3.2.3.7.5. The only difference is that the test setup is as described in clause 3.2.1.1.2 Non-conducted OTA FDD tests for FR1 radios with two signal analysers setup as described above in Figure 3.2.4.7-2. A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to validate the correct implementation of transmit diversity of a Category B O-RU with two antennas. TxD uses TM2 (transmission Mode 2). For TxD, information for 2 layers is packed into a PRB for transmission from O-DU and are unpacked at the O-RU. TxD precoding is applied based on the C Plane configuration before RF transmission. Using a standard E-TM1.1 test frame for FDD the CUSM-E (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 3.2.2) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink the standard E-TM1.1 signal. This test is applicable for Category B radios only. B. Test Entrance Criteria
- The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1 of this document. The test bandwidth is 20
MHz Bandwidth as described by E-TM1.1.
- The O-RU must have at least two TRX chains with radiating antennas.
- The TER equipment must include 2 antennas with sufficient separation. The TER equipment must have at least
two probe receiving antennas to receive each individual layer.
- The signal analyser must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel.
- The O-RU must support the Section Extension ExtType=3 parameter as notified by the M-Plane
C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions
- Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation
using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.
- Ensure that the test antenna/s and TER equipment is calibrated within acceptable tolerance.
- Place the test antenna/s to a defined position within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2 and configure
the analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.
- Place the O-RU into a test calibrated point within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.
- Align the O-RU to a default initial position, i.e. align the O-RU to the origin of coordinates of the declared
coordinate reference point and orientation in the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.
- Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.
b. Procedure
- Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the E-TM1.1 signal described above in the CUSM-E. the data
content is a PN23 sequences starting with an initial seed of ones.
- Use the CUSM-E control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal.
- Every symbol should be described by a single section (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages.
No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.
- The test configures two antenna ports hence two beamIDs needed (same beamID for user data and CRS
REs). For Antenna Port 0, the beamId is contained in the C-Plane data section header, while the Antenna Ports 1 (“beamIdAP1”) is contained in the ExtType=3.
- Configure different eAxCs are used for each layer
- Configure following parameters in the Section Extension ExtType=3
o codebookIndex - ‘00000000’ (invalid) o layerID (Layer ID for DL transmission) - layer ID that are used for DL transmission o txScheme (transmission scheme) - ’txD’ o numLayers (number of layers used for DL transmission) - 0001 (implies 2) o crsReMask (CRS resource element mask) o crsSymlNum (CRS symbol number indication) o crsShift (crsShift used for DL transmission)
- Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows
described in clause 3.2.3.4.
- Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate
and decode the test frame. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The signal measured by the signal analyser should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 2. The test frame received by the signal analyser should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data. 3. The signal relation between received signal analyser or channels of the signal analyser should match the expected result for Tx Diversity transmission as specified in ETSI TS 136.141 clause 4.5.1.1.

##### 3.2.4.7.6 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class With Precoding (WPR) SM
The test description, execution and pass criteria are the same as described in clause 3.2.3.7.6. The only difference is that the test setup is as described in clause 3.2.1.1.2 Non-conducted OTA FDD tests for FR1 radios with two signal analysers setup as described above in Figure 3.2.4.7-2. A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to validate the correct implementation of TM3/4 Spatial Multiplexing transmission mode for a Category B O-RU with two antennas. For TM3/4 Spatial Multiplexing, information for 2 layers is packed into a PRB for transmission from O-DU and are unpacked at the O-RU, subsequently TM3/4 based precoding is applied based on the C Plane configuration before over the air transmission. Using a standard E-TM1.1 test frame for FDD the CUSM-E (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 3.2.2) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink the standard E-TM1.1 signal. This test is applicable for Category B radios only. B. Test Entrance Criteria
- The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1 of this document. The test bandwidth is 20
MHz Bandwidth as described by E-TM1.1.
- The signal analyser must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel.
- The O-RU must have at least two TRX chains with radiating antennas.
- The TER equipment must include 2 antennas with sufficient separation. The TER equipment must have at least
two probe receiving antennas to receive each individual layer.
- The TER with connections to the O-RU must be calibrated.
C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions
- Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using
M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.
- Connect the signal analyser to the O-RU TAB connectors under test and configure the analyser with any set-
up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.
- Ensure that the test antenna/s and TER equipment is calibrated within acceptable tolerance.
- Place the test antenna/s to a defined position within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2 and configure
the analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.
- Place the O-RU into a test calibrated point within the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.
- Align the O-RU to a default initial position, i.e. align the O-RU to the origin of coordinates of the declared
coordinate reference point and orientation in the OTA chamber as defined in 3.2.1.1.2.
- Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.
b. Procedure
- Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the E-TM1.1 signal described above in the CUSM-E. The data
content is a PN23 sequences starting with an initial seed of ones.
- The codeword -to-layer mapping follows Table 6.3.3.2-1 of ETSI TS 136.211 with one codeword to two
layer mapping, but does not restrict to use two codeword to two-layer mapping.
- Use the CUSM-E control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal.
- Every symbol should be described by a single section (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages.
No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test.
- The test configures two antenna ports. Therefore, two beamIDs are needed. The same beamID is used for
user data and CRS REs. o For Antenna Port 0, the beamId is contained in the C-Plane data section header, while the Antenna Ports 1 (“beamIdAP1”) is contained in the ExtType=3
- Configure following parameters in the Section Extension ExtType=3 as defined in CUS Plane Specification
[2]. o codebookIndex - indices of the precoder codebook that are used for precoding o layerID (Layer ID for DL transmission) - layer ID that are used for DL transmission o txScheme (transmission scheme) – set to Spatial multiplexing (no CDD) o numLayers (number of layers used for DL transmission) – set to 0001 (implies 2) o crsReMask (CRS resource element mask) o crsSymlNum (CRS symbol number indication) o crsShift (crsShift used for DL transmission)
- Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows
described in clause 3.2.3.4.
- Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate
and decode the test frame. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The signal measured by the signal analyser should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 2. The test frame received by the signal analyser should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23. 3. The signal relation between the two signal analysers or two channels of the signal analyser should match the expected result for MIMO transmission as specified in ETSI TS 136.141 clause 4.5.1.1.

#### 3.2.4.8 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Section Type 3 (ST3)
The Section Type 3 tests for FR1 FDD Non-conducted OTA are the same as the tests described in clause 3.2.3.8 . Only the setup for the tests is different reflecting the difference between non-conductive and conductive mode testing.

### 3.2.5 FR1 TDD Conducted Signal Tests

#### 3.2.5.1 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class NR testing Generic (NRG)
All TDD tests described in this clause will be combined UL and DL tests (i.e. a single test frame describing both uplink and downlink). The default test frame used in this clause is described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 of this document. There are several variations on this test signal depending on the capabilities of the radio. If the radio does not support the numerology used in the example tests as reported in the M-plane it will be up to the test developer to modify their tests to adapt to the radio. This can usually be accomplished by using stock test patterns described above. The test is expected to follow the same spirit as the tests in this document but things like symbol numbers, number of PRBs, etc. may have to be changed.

##### 3.2.5.1.1 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Base 3GPP DL/UL
A. Test Description and Applicability This test is MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can meet the most basic uplink and downlink requirements for O- RAN fronthaul using a TDD signal. Subsequent tests will build on this to exercise additional capabilities of the Fronthaul. Using the standard TDD test frame described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink and uplink the default signal. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit and receive a basic 3GPP, TDD test frame using the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.5 of this document (or a similar 3GPP waveform) except only one spatial stream on one antenna will be used. This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required). As per clause 3.2.1.1.3 this test requires all-zero data to populate all allocated resource blocks. This configuration corresponds to stock data section A in all symbols that do not contain PDCCH channels. B. Test Entrance Criteria The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 of this document. The test numerology will be kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described by TM-FR1-TM1.1 in downlink direction and G-FR1-A1-5 (SCS30k_51RB) in the uplink direction. If the O-RU does not support this bandwidth another 3GPP FRC can be selected. In the test frame, all PDSCH data is set to all zeros and PUSCH is set to all zeros. It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors. The O-RU must have a conducted antenna port (or TAB connector) to be connected to a signal analyser and signal source. It must also support the default parameters defined in clause 3.2.1.1.3 above. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. Connect the signal analyser and signal source to the O-RU antenna ports and configure the analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal. b. Procedure Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the signal described above in clause 3.2.1.1.3 in the CUSM emulator. Built the appropriate test frame (uplink slots) for the signal source. Use the CUSM emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal. Every symbol other than the ones used in the test should either be allocated with user data or left unallocated (empty). If allocated with user data, they be described by either a single or multiple sections (DL-SCH that are used for the test, DMRS and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages for downlink slots only. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.3. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame. It will be the responsibility of the TER’s signal analyser and source to coordinate downlink and uplink TDD transmissions. The CUSM Emulator of the TER is responsible for receiving uplink U-Plane messages, extracting IQ and decoding it to bits which can be compared to those sent by the signal source. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The signal measured by the signal analyser should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 2. The test frame received in downlink direction by the signal analyser should be the same as the signal described above. If it contains all the same PRB assignments and all zero data, the test passes. 3. The test frame received in uplink direction by the TER should be the same as the signal described above. If it contains all the same PRB assignments and PN23 sequence data, the test passes.

##### 3.2.5.1.2 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended 3GPP DL/UL – Resource Allocation
A. Test Description and Applicability This test is MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can meet the extended uplink and downlink requirements for O-RAN fronthaul using a TDD signal. This test modifies the previous test by using a PN23 sequence in all test PDSCH sections. Using the standard TDD test frame described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink and uplink the default signal. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit and receive an extended 3GPP TDD test frame using the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 of this document (or a similar 3GPP waveform) except only one spatial stream on one antenna will be used. This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required). All downlink user data in this test will be a PN23 sequence and all uplink user data will also be a PN23 sequence. B. Test Entrance Criteria The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 of this document. The test numerology will be kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described by TM-FR1-TM1.1. It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors. The O-RU must have a conducted antenna port (or TAB connector) to be connected to a signal analyser and signal source. It must also support the default parameters defined in clause 3.2.1.1.1 above. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. Connect the signal analyser to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal. b. Procedure Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the signal described above in clause 3.2.1.1.3 in the CUSM emulator. In this case use a PN23 sequence for the downlink shared channel. Build the appropriate test frame (uplink slots) for the signal source. Use the CUSM emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the uplink and downlink signals. Every symbol used in the test should be described by a single section (DL-SCH that are used for the test, DMRS and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages for downlink slots only. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame. It will be the responsibility of the TER’s signal analyser and source to coordinate downlink and uplink TDD transmissions. The CUSM Emulator of the TER is responsible for receiving uplink U-Plane messages, extracting IQ and decoding it to bits which can be compared to those sent by the signal source. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The signal measured by the signal analyser should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 2. The test frame received by the signal analyser should be the same as the signal described above. If it contains all the same PRB assignments and PN23 sequence data, the test passes.

##### 3.2.5.1.3 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using RB parameter 3GPP DL/UL –
Resource Allocation A. Test Description and Applicability This test is MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can accurately interpret C-Plane resource allocation messages with the rb parameter set, transfer U-Plane data into the correct resource blocks and transmit this data accurately in the downlink and interpret and capture the correct resource blocks in the uplink with the rb parameter set. This test uses a PN23 sequence in all test PDSCH sections. Using the standard TDD test frame described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink and uplink the specified signal using the rb bit in both uplink and downlink. Only one spatial stream on one antenna will be used. This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required). All downlink user data in this test will be a PN23 sequence and all uplink user data will also be a PN23 sequence. B. Test Entrance Criteria The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 of this document. The test numerology will be kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in clause 3.2.1.1.3. It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors. The O-RU must have a conducted antenna port (or TAB connector) to be connected to a signal analyser. It must also support the default parameters defined in clause 3.2.1.1.1 above. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. Connect the signal analyser to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal. Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna port and configure it as described below. b. Procedure Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the signal described above in clause 3.2.1.1.3 in the CUSM emulator. In this case use a PN23 sequence for the downlink shared channel. Build the appropriate test frame (uplink slots) for the signal source. Use the CUSM emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the uplink and downlink signals. Every symbol used in the test should be described by a single section (DL-SCH that are used for the test, DMRS and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages for downlink slots only. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.3. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame. It will be the responsibility of the TER’s signal analyser and source to coordinate downlink and uplink TDD transmissions. The CUSM Emulator of the TER is responsible for receiving uplink U-Plane messages, extracting IQ and decoding it to bits which can be compared to those sent by the signal source. For the downlink slots and symbols: Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator. Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal. If symbols other than the ones under test are allocated with user data, every allocated (see below) symbol should be described by sections (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. Symbol #3 of each slot should be Stock data section “D” as shown in clause 3.2.1.1.5 above. The control plane for symbol #3 will only include PRBs number 5 through 23. C-Plane messages will have the rb bit set to one for this section. All other DL-SCH symbols and PRBs other than PRBs 5-23 will not contain data. There are two ways to conduct the test: 1. A single data section with the rb bit set and a PN23 sequence sent as shown below: A new PN23 sequence will be started but every other PRB will contain only the odd parts of the PN23 sequence (as shown in green). The other PRBs (shown in orange) will not contain data and will not be sent to the O-RU. Thus, a single data section will be used, and the corresponding U-Plane message will only contain data for the odd PRBs as shown above. The parts of the PN23 sequence not used (shown marked with an X) will be discarded. 2. Two data sections one containing the odd parts of the PN23 sequence and the other containing the even parts as shown below: A new PN23 sequence will be started but every other PRB in one section will contain only the odd parts of the PN23 sequence (as shown in green). The second data section will contain the even parts of the PN23 sequence. The C-Plane messages for both sections will use the rb bit. The U-Plane messages corresponding to the first data section will contain only the odd parts of the PN23 sequence, the U-Plane message corresponding to the second data section will only contain the even parts. Thus, a continuous PN23 sequence will be sent only in PRBs 5 through 23. Additional sections should be included to describe the DCI symbols as well as Reference Signals described in 38.141-1 as well as if DL-SCH is allocated for all the symbols other than the one under test (Symbol #3). Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame.
- For the uplink sections and symbols: Load uplink test waveform (G-FR1-A1-5 : SCS30k_51RB) on
the RF signal source. Note this signal has a PN23 sequence as user data. Configure the signal source to play the TDD test waveforms on 10ms frame boundaries starting when it receives a trigger signal from the O-DU emulator that all C-Plane messages have been sent. Ensure the O-RU and source are synchronized so downlink slots do not conflict with uplink slots. Load C-Plane message sequence on Test Equipment O-RU (TER) – In this test only symbol number 6 will be used and all 51 PRBs will be used. Symbol number 6 will be a guard symbol in the flexible slot if the TDD configuration according to Table 3.2.1.1 is used, so only 2 uplink slots per frame are possible. If needed, another symbol than symbol number 6 can be selected. All other symbols may either contain user data or may be left unallocated except for required DRMS signals which may be used to synchronize test equipment. There are two options for conducting this test: 1. A single data section with the rb bit set and a PN23 sequence sent as shown below: A new PN23 sequence will be started but every other PRB will contain only the odd parts of the PN23 sequence (as shown in orange). The other PRBs (shown in blue and white) may either have allocated user data and will be sent to the O-RU or may be left unallocated and will not be sent to the O-RU. A single data section will be used for symbol #6, and the corresponding U-Plane message will only contain data for the odd PRBs as shown above. The parts of the PN23 sequence not used (shown marked with an X) will be discarded. 2. Two data sections one containing the odd parts of the PN23 sequence and the other containing the even parts as shown below: A new PN23 sequence will be started but every other PRB in one section will contain only the odd parts of the PN23 sequence (as shown in green). The second data section will contain the even parts of the PN23 sequence. The C-Plane messages for both sections will use the rb bit. The U-Plane messages corresponding to the first data section will contain only the odd parts of the PN23 sequence, the U-Plane message corresponding to the second data section will only contain the even parts. Thus, a continuous PN23 sequence will be sent only in PRBs 0 through 51 Steps:
- Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul Messages
- Launch test to play the C-Plane messages and the downlink U-Plane messages and trigger the
source to play the RF signal on a frame boundary.
- Play messages to the O-RU respecting the timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. Repeat
the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the frame.
- Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the
Antenna port
- Extract IQ information from the captured U-Plane messages
- Extract IQ information from the signal analyser for downlink slots
- Extract Payload for both signals
- Compare payload binary sequences
D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The signal measured by the signal analyser should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 2. The signal extracted by the U-Plane messages (uplink) should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 3. The test frame received by the signal analyser should be the same as the signal described above. If it contains all the same PRB assignments and PN23 sequence data, the downlink test passes. 4. The test frame extracted from the uplink U-Plane messages should be the same as the uplink signal described above. If it contains all the same PRB assignments and PN23 sequence data, the uplink test passes.

##### 3.2.5.1.4 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using SymInc parameter 3GPP DL/UL
– Resource Allocation A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can accurately interpret C-Plane resource allocation messages with the SymInc parameter set, transfer U-Plane data into the correct resource blocks and transmit this data accurately in the downlink and interpret and capture the correct resource blocks in the uplink with the SymInc parameter set. This test uses a PN23 sequence in all test PDSCH sections. Using the standard TDD test frame described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink and uplink the specified signal using the SymInc bit in both uplink and downlink. Only one spatial stream on one antenna will be used. This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required). All downlink user data in this test will be a PN23 sequence and all uplink user data will also be a PN23 sequence. B. Test Entrance Criteria The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 of this document. The test numerology will be kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in clause 3.2.1.1.3. It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors. The radio must support the SymInc Parameter as notified by the M-Plane. The signal analyser must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. Connect the signal analyser to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal. Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna port and configure it as described below. b. Procedure Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the signal described above in clause 3.2.1.1.3 in the CUSM emulator. In this case use a PN23 sequence for the downlink shared channel. Build the appropriate test frame (uplink slots) for the signal source. Use the CUSM emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the uplink and downlink signals. Every symbol other than the ones used in the test should either be allocated with user data or left unallocated (empty). If allocated with user data, they may be described by either a single or multiple sections (DL-SCH that are used for the test, DMRS and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages for downlink slots only. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.3. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame. It will be the responsibility of the TER’s signal analyser and source to coordinate downlink and uplink TDD transmissions. The CUSM Emulator of the TER is responsible for receiving uplink U-Plane messages, extracting IQ and decoding it to bits which can be compared to those sent by the signal source. For the downlink slots and symbols: If the symbols other than the ones under test (symbols #5 and #6) have user data allocated, these symbols should be described by a single or multiple type 1 section (DL-SCH and DCI) except symbols #5 and #6 which will be used for the SymInc test. The data in these sections must be a PN23 sequence using an initial seed of all ones. Each symbol should be a new PN23 sequence, that is PRB 0 should contain the data from a new PN23 sequence for each symbol. Symbols number 5 and 6 should be stock data sections type “E” as shown above. This stock data section consists of two adjacent symbols each containing two sections. The corresponding C-Plane message will contain 4 section IDs in a single C-Plane message describing symbols #5 and #6. The startSymbolId in the application header will be symbol #5. The third section ID for symbol #6 will have the SymInc bit set informing the O-RU that this section will begin describing symbol #6. The corresponding U-Plane messages will be a new PN23 Sequence for each symbol (5 and 6). Additional sections should be included to describe the DCI symbols as well as Reference Signals described in 38.141-1. For the uplink sections and symbols: Load uplink test waveform (G-FR1-A1-5: SCS30k_51RB, 100 MHz) on the RF signal source. Note this signal has a PN23 sequence as user data. Configure the source to generate a new PN23 sequence in symbols #5 and #6. Configure the signal source to play test waveforms on 10ms frame boundaries starting when it receives a trigger signal from the O-DU emulator that all C- Plane messages have been sent. Ensure the O-RU and source are synchronized so downlink slots do not conflict with uplink slots. Load C-Plane message sequence on Test Equipment O-RU (TER) – Only symbols #5 and #6 in each slot will be used in this test. Symbol number 6 will be a guard symbol in the flexible slot if the TDD configuration according to Table 3.2.1.1 is used, so only 2 uplink slots per frame are possible. If needed, another symbol than symbol number 6 can be selected. All other symbols may either contain reference signals only or data and reference signals but will not be considered part of the test. These two symbols will be used to determine whether the radio properly increments the current symbol ID when the SymInc bit is set. The C-Plane message for symbol #6 should have the SymInc bit set. This message should have a third section describing symbol #6 (using the SymInc mechanism). All PRBs in each symbol will be requested (In the example waveform 51 PRBs). Steps:
- Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul Messages
- Launch test to play the C-Plane messages and the downlink U-Plane messages and trigger the
source to play the RF signal on a frame boundary.
- Play messages to the O-RU respecting the timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. Repeat
the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the frame.
- Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the
Antenna port
- Extract IQ information from the captured U-Plane messages
- Extract IQ information from the signal analyser for downlink slots
- Extract Payload for both signals
- Compare payload binary sequences
D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The signal measured by the signal analyser should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 2. The signal extracted by the U-Plane messages (uplink) should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 3. The test frame received by the signal analyser should be the same as the signal described above. If it contains all the same PRB assignments and the correct PN23 data, the downlink test passes. 4. The test frame extracted from the uplink U-Plane messages should be the same as the uplink signal described above. If it contains all the same PRB assignments and correct PN23 data, the uplink test passes.

##### 3.2.5.1.5 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using reMask parameter 3GPP DL/UL
– Resource Allocation A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can accurately interpret C-Plane resource allocation messages with the reMask parameter set, transfer U-Plane data into the correct resource blocks and transmit this data accurately in the downlink and interpret and capture the correct resource blocks in the uplink with the reMask parameter set. This test uses a PN23 sequence in all test PDSCH sections. Using the standard TDD test frame described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink and uplink the specified signal using the reMask bit in both uplink and downlink. Only one spatial stream on one antenna will be used. This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required). All downlink user data in this test will be a PN23 sequence and all uplink user data will also be a PN23 sequence. B. Test Entrance Criteria The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 of this document. The test numerology will be kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in clause 3.2.1.1.3. It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors. The radio must support the reMask Parameter as notified by the M-Plane. The signal analyser must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. Connect the signal analyser to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal. Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna port and configure it as described below. b. Procedure Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the signal described above in clause 3.2.1.1.3 in the CUSM emulator and modified as described below. In this case use a PN23 sequence for the downlink shared channel. Build the appropriate test frame (uplink slots) as described below for the signal source. Use the CUSM emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the uplink and downlink signals. Every symbol other than the ones used in the test should either be allocated with user data or left unallocated (empty). If allocated with user data, they will be described by either a single or multiple sections (DL-SCH that are used for the test, DMRS and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages for downlink slots only. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.3. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame. It will be the responsibility of the TER’s signal analyser and source to coordinate downlink and uplink TDD transmissions. The CUSM Emulator of the TER is responsible for receiving uplink U-Plane messages, extracting IQ and decoding it to bits which can be compared to those sent by the signal source. For the downlink slots and symbols: Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal as described below. If the symbols other than the ones under test (symbol #2) have user data allocated, these symbols should be described by a single or multiple type 1 sections (DL-SCH and DCI). Only symbol #2 will be used for the reMask test. The data in this section must be a PN23 sequence using an initial seed of all ones. The first bits of the PN23 will be in PRB1 and continue in consecutive resource elements to the end of PRB5. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. The PN23 sequence will be interleaved with DMRS signals as shown below: Symbol number 2 should be stock data Section Type “D” as shown above. This test will only be using PRBs 1 through 5. The corresponding C-Plane message will contain two section IDs in a single C-Plane message describing symbol #2. The startSymbolId in the application header will be symbol #2. The C-Plane message will have one section with the reMask set to 101010101010b and another section with the reMask set to all ones. The first section (reMask = 101010101010b) will be for PRB 1 only, the second section will be for PRBs 2-5 and will have an reMask value of all ones. The two sections will have different section IDs. The corresponding U-Plane messages will be a new PN23 Sequence (initial seed is all ones) in PRBs 1 through 5 of symbol #2 alternated with the DMRS signals. The first U-Plane message will correspond to sectionID with reMask set to 101010101010b and will contain one PRB with user data and DMRS signals as shown. The second U-Plane message will correspond to PRBs 2-5 and will containing the same alternate data. The purpose of the section ID containing valid data is to ensure the radio sends a signal to synchronize the signal analyser. For the uplink sections and symbols: Load C-Plane message sequence on Test Equipment O-RU (TER) symbol #2 only PRBs 1-5 will be sent with the alternating user data and DMRS pattern shown below. Other symbols may be used in this test or be left unallocated (unused). However other symbols containing reference signals may be used to ensure the O- RU can synchronize with the TER. The format of symbol #2 used in this test will be: The TER will not request any other symbols from the O-RU in this test unless they are needed by the TER for synchronization. The C-Plane message describing symbol #2 should contain two sections with different section IDs. Only PRBs 1-5 will be used. The first section should only describe PRB 1 and have an reMask of 101010101010b. The second section should describe PRBs 2-5 and have an reMask of all ones. The two sections should have different section IDs. Steps:
- Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul Messages
- Launch test to play the C-Plane messages and the downlink U-Plane messages and trigger the
source to play the RF signal on a frame boundary.
- Play messages to the O-RU respecting the timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. Repeat
the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the frame.
- Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the
Antenna port
- Extract IQ information from the captured U-Plane messages
- Extract IQ information from the signal analyser for downlink slots
- Extract Payload for both signals
- Compare payload binary sequences
D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The signal measured by the signal analyser should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 2. The signal extracted by the U-Plane messages (uplink) should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 3. The test frame received by the signal analyser should only contain the same PN23 signals that were sent in the U-Plane only for PRBs 2-5. only DMRS signals should be in PRB1. 4. The test frame extracted from the uplink U-Plane messages should be the same as the uplink signal described above. In particular the U-Plane messages for PRBs 2-5 should contain user data as well as DMRS signals while PRB1 should only contain DMRS signals.

##### 3.2.5.1.6 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using Non-contiguous PRB Allocation
Section Extension 6 3GPP DL/UL – Resource Allocation A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can accurately interpret C-Plane resource allocation messages with section extension 6, transfer U-Plane data into the correct resource blocks and transmit this data accurately in the downlink and interpret and capture the correct resource blocks in the uplink with section extension 6. This test uses a PN23 sequence in all test PDSCH sections. Using the standard TDD test frame described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink and uplink the specified signal using section extension 6 in both uplink and downlink. In this test stock data section definition C will be used to exercise the non-contiguous RB allocation, all 273 PRBs (51 in the uplink slots)or the max number of PRBs per symbol for the highest numerology the radio supports will be used in this test. Only one spatial stream on one antenna will be used. This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required). All downlink user data in this test will be a PN23 sequence and all uplink user data will also be a PN23 sequence. B. Test Entrance Criteria The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 of this document. The test numerology will be kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in clause 3.2.1.1.3. It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors. The radio must support section extension 6 as notified by the M-Plane. The signal analyser must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. Connect the signal analyser to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal. Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna port and configure it as described below. b. Procedure Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the signal described above in clause 3.2.1.1.3 in the CUSM emulator. In this case use a PN23 sequence for the downlink shared channel. Build the appropriate test frame (uplink slots) for the signal source. Use the CUSM emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the uplink and downlink signals. Every symbol other than the ones used in the test should either be allocated with user data or left unallocated (empty). If allocated with user data, they may be described by either a single or multiple sections (DL-SCH that are used for the test, DMRS and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages for downlink slots only. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame. It will be the responsibility of the TER’s signal analyser and source to coordinate downlink and uplink TDD transmissions. The CUSM Emulator of the TER is responsible for receiving uplink U-Plane messages, extracting IQ and decoding it to bits which can be compared to those sent by the signal source. For the downlink slots and symbols: Only symbols number 6 and 7 will be used in each slot. Other symbols may be used in this test or be left unallocated (unused). However other symbols containing reference signals may be used to ensure the O-RU can synchronize with the TER. The starting PRB will be zero and number of PRBs will be chosen from one or more columns in Table 3.2.5-1 below. The resource block group size will be 16 based on ETSI TS 138.214 Table 5.1.2.2.1-1 as shown in Table 3.2.5-1 below using configuration 2. Bandwidth Part Size Configuration 1 Configuration 2

# 37 – 72 4 8

# 73 – 144 8 16

# 145 – 275 16 16
Using the calculations in clause 7.7.6 of [2] for the test waveform described above, the ID of the last RBG will be 17, f(0) will be 16, f(n) will be 16 and f(lastRbgID) will be 1 (17 total RBGs). StartPrbc will be zero and numPrbc will be 273. If the radio does not support this numerology the following table will apply. The number of PRBs correspond to Table 3.2.5-2. # PRBs per Symbol (11-79) max

# 24 25 32 50 51 52 65 66 79
PRB/sym numPRBc 11 24 25 32 50 51 52 65 66 79 rbgSize 4 4 4 4 8 8 8 8 8 16 lastRbgID 2 5 6 7 6 6 6 8 8 4 f(0) 4 4 4 4 8 8 8 8 8 16 f(n) 4 4 4 4 8 8 8 8 8 16 f(lastRbgID) 3 4 1 4 2 3 4 1 2 15 rbgMask 0000005 000003D 000007D 00000FD 000007D 000007D 000007D 00001FD 00001FD 000001D (Hex) # PRBs per Symbol (100-273) max PRB/sym 100 106 107 132 133 135 162 217 270 273 numPRBc 100 106 107 132 133 135 162 217 270 273 rbgSize 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 lastRbgID 6 6 6 8 8 8 10 13 16 17 f(0) 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 f(n) 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 f(lastRbgID) 4 10 11 4 5 7 2 9 14 1 rbgMask (Hex) 000007D 000007D 000007D 00001FD 00001FD 00001FD 00007FD 0003FFD 001FFFD 003FFFD Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator. Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal. If the symbols other than the ones under test (symbol #6 and #7) have user data allocated, these symbols should be described by a single or multiple type 1 section (DL-SCH and DCI) except symbols #6 and #7 which will be used for the section extension 6 test. The data in symbol #6 should be a new PN23 sequence starting in the first PRB and continuing to PRB 273 (RBG number 17). Symbol #7 should be identical to symbol #6. The rbgMask value should be set to 0x003FFFD and the symbolMask value should be set to 00000011000000b. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. The O-DU emulator will build a U-Plane message containing the PN23 IQ data for the first 16 PRBs (RBG 0), this message will have the section ID used in the C-Plane message described above. Another U-Plane message will be created using the same section ID but with the PN23 data for RBGs 2-17 in it. The same U-Plane messages will be used for symbol #7. For the uplink sections and symbols: For this test symbols number 6 and 7 will be used in each slot. The starting PRB will be zero and number of PRBs will be 51. The resource block group size will be 8. Using the calculations in clause 7.7.6 of [2], the ID of the last RBG will be 6, f(0) will be 8, f(n) will be 8 and f(lastRbgID) will be 3. Every symbol should be described by a single type 1 section (DL-SCH and DCI) except symbols #6 and #7 which will be used for the section extension 6 test. Symbol number 6 will be a guard symbol in the flexible slot if the TDD configuration according to Table 3.2.1.1 is used, so only 2 uplink slots per frame are possible. If needed, another symbol than symbol number 6 can be selected. The data in symbol #6 is expected to be a new PN23 sequence starting in the first PRB and continuing to PRB 51 (RBG number 6). Symbol #7 should be identical to symbol #6. The rbgMask value should be set to 0x000007D and the symbolMask value should be set to 00000011000000b. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. If the radio only supports another numerology see the tables above in the downlink sections and symbols for appropriate modifications. Steps:
- Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul Messages
- Launch test to play the C-Plane messages and the downlink U-Plane messages and trigger the
source to play the RF signal on a frame boundary.
- Play messages to the O-RU respecting the timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. Repeat
the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the frame.
- Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the
Antenna port
- Extract IQ information from the captured U-Plane messages
- Extract IQ information from the signal analyser for downlink slots
- Extract Payload for both signals
- Compare payload binary sequences
D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The signal measured by the signal analyser should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 2. The signal extracted by the U-Plane messages (uplink) should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 3. The test frame received by the signal analyser should be the same as the signal described above. If it contains all the same PRB assignments and the correct PN23 sequence as data, the downlink test passes. 4. The test frame extracted from the uplink U-Plane messages should be the same as the uplink signal described above. If it contains all the same PRB assignments and the correct PN23 sequence as data, the uplink test passes.

##### 3.2.5.1.7 UC- Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended 3GPP DL/UL – Resource Allocation –
Coupling C and U plane via time and frequency A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can meet the extended uplink and downlink requirements for O-RAN fronthaul using a TDD signal. This test uses time and frequency to couple C-Plane and U-Plane messages. Using the standard TDD test frame described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink and uplink the default signal. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit and receive an extended 3GPP TDD test frame using the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 of this document (or a similar 3GPP waveform) except only one spatial stream on one antenna will be used. This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required). All downlink user data in this test will be a PN23 sequence and all uplink user data will also be a PN23 sequence. The radio must report over the M-Plane that it supports C and U plane coupling via time and frequency. B. Test Entrance Criteria The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 of this document. The test numerology will be kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described by TM-FR1-TM1.1. It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must report over the M-Plane that it supports C and U plane coupling via time and frequency. The O-RU must have a conducted antenna port (or TAB connector) to be connected to a signal analyser and signal source. It must also support the default parameters defined in clause 3.2.1.1.1 above. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. Connect the signal analyser to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal. b. Procedure Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the signal described above in clause 3.2.1.1.3 in the CUSM emulator. In this case use a PN23 sequence for the downlink shared channel. Build the appropriate test frame (uplink slots) for the signal source. Use the CUSM emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the uplink and downlink signals. Every symbol used in the test should be described by a single section (DL-SCH that are used for the test, DMRS and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages for downlink slots only. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame. It will be the responsibility of the TER’s signal analyser and source to coordinate downlink and uplink TDD transmissions. The CUSM Emulator of the TER is responsible for receiving uplink U-Plane messages, extracting IQ and decoding it to bits which can be compared to those sent by the signal source. All section IDs in C-Plane messages and downlink U-Plane messages must be 4095. C-Plane and Downlink U-Plane messages sent by the TER will have valid values in the following fields:
- EAxC ID
- Datadirection bit
- Frame ID, subframeID, slotID, startsymbolID, and NumSymbol
- SectionID must have a value 4095
- SymInc, rb reMask and section extension #6 are not used in this test
It is the responsibility of the TER to properly arrange uplink U-Plane messages using only time and frequency resources. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The signal measured by the signal analyser should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 2. All received U-Plane messages must have section ID equal to 4095 3. The test frame received by the signal analyser should be the same as the signal described above. If it contains all the same PRB assignments and PN23 sequence data, the test passes.

##### 3.2.5.1.8 UC- Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended 3GPP DL/UL – Coupling C and U
plane via Time and Frequency and Section Description Priorities A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to test whether the radio can implement coupling U and C plane via time and frequency and section description priorities requirements for O-RAN fronthaul using a TDD signal. This test combines the FDD, uplink and downlink tests for these same features. Note, there are two versions of this feature: coupling C and U plane messages via frequency and time and Section Description Priorities and coupling C and U plane messages via frequency and time and Section Description Priorities (optimized). This test requires both tests to be performed if the radio supports both methods otherwise only one test is to be performed in the radio only supports one of these methods. These methods are listed under test methodology below. Starting with the standard TDD test frame described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink and uplink the signals described below. Only one spatial stream on one antenna will be used. This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required). All downlink user data in this test will be a PN23 sequence and all uplink user data will also be a PN23 sequence. B. Test Entrance Criteria The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 of this document and those specified below. The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described by TM-FR1- TM1.1. It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors. It will be a TDD signal. The O-RU must have a conducted antenna port (or TAB connector) to be connected to a signal analyser and signal source. It must also support the default parameters defined in clause 3.2.1.1.1 above. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. Connect the signal analyser to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal. b. Procedure for Coupling C and U plane messages via frequency and time with section priorities Build an appropriate C and U plane signals for the signals described below in the CUSM emulator. Every slot used in the test should be described by a single C-Plane message with multiple sections (DL-SCH that are used for the test, DMRS and DCI) using a Section Type 1 message. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages for downlink slots only. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame. It will be the responsibility of the TER’s signal analyser and source to coordinate downlink and uplink TDD transmissions. The CUSM Emulator of the TER is responsible for receiving uplink U-Plane messages, extracting IQ and decoding it to bits which can be compared to those sent by the signal source.
- Downlink procedure:
# Section priority symbolMask startPrbc numPrbc reMask rbgMask beamId numSymbol Note ext 6 yes +1 00000000000100 0 192 010001000100 0xFFFFC00 1 1 CSI referenc e signal (CSI- RS) yes +1 00100000000000 0 192 010001000100 0xFFFFC00 2 1 CSI referenc e signal (CSI- RS) no 0 11111000000000 0 273 111111111111 N/A 100 5 UE1 Not used in this section without section extension 6. Just shown for information yes 0 00000000001100 15 32 111111111111 0x6000000 200 2 UE2 no 0 00000111110000 31 48 111111111111 N/A 300 5 UE3 Not used in this section without section extension 6. Just shown for information no 0 00000000000011 10 2 111111111111 N/A 3 2 Special channel Not used in this section without section extension 6. Just shown for information In this test the section configuration will be as shown in Table 3.2.5-3above. The 6 sections will comprise one slot and this slot will be repeated continuously in the downlink slots in the TDD frame to synchronize the TER signal analyser. The six sections will be sent on one C-Plane message using C and U plane coupling via time and frequency. The configuration above follows the example given in the CUSM specification. The section numbers in the above table do not represent SectionID numbers but individual sections. Sections #1 and #2 describe hypothetical CSI-RS signals sent in symbols #2 and #11 in each slot. These signals have sub-carriers masked by reMask. The CSI-RS signals generation follows ETSI TS 138.211 V16.2.0 (or after), clause 7.4.1.5 with nID = 0, row 1, N=1 and L=1. These sections use section extension 6 and contain a higher priority than all other sections. Section #3 describes PN23 data sent to hypothetical UE #1 it overlaps REs in sections #1 and #2 but has a lower priority so sections #1 and #2 are valid. Since section #3 has contiguous symbols section extension 6 is not needed. Section #4 is for hypothetical UE #2. It shares symbol 2 with the CSI-RS signal in Section #1. Since the symbols are not contiguous it uses sections extension 6 but the priority is set to the default 0. Section #5 is for hypothetical UE #3 and uses a contiguous set of symbols so section extension 6 is not needed. It does not overlap any other signals. It shares symbol 2 with the CSI-RS signal in Section #1. This section is optional because it does not test Section Description Priority. Section #6 is a hypothetical special channel using two symbols and does not require section extension 6. This section is also optional. U-Plane messages will contain:
- CSI-RS signals as described by section #1 for symbol #2
- CSI-RS signals as described by section #2 for symbol #11
- A new PN23 sequence in each of the last 5 symbols as described in section #3. Note that for
symbol #11 the PN sequence will be pierced by the CSI-RS signals.
- A new PN23 sequence for symbol #2 as described by section #4 as well as a new PN sequence for
symbol #3. These sequences are only 32 PRBs long and start in PRB 15. The sequence in symbol #2 will be pierced by CSI-RS signals.
- The user data for sections number #5 and #6 are standard PN23 sequences only for these symbols
and PRBs described in the table above. c. Procedure for Coupling C and U plane messages via frequency and time with section priorities (optimized) This test will be identical to the above test with the following exceptions:
- There will be two C-Plane messages describing the uplink and downlink signals to be sent.
- The first two sections listed in the table above (those with higher priorities) will be repeated in both C-
Plane messages and will have a section ID equal to a value between 0 and “max-highest-priority- sections-per-slot” as sent on the M-Plane.
- The other sections will be divided between the two C-Plane messages and not repeated.
- The repeated C-plane message will have the “repetition” bit set to one.
D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The signal measured by the signal analyser should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 2. The test frame received by the signal analyser must be the same as the signal described above. It must contain all the same PRB assignments and PN23 sequences. 3. (VOID) 4. The beamweights or magnitude and phase relation at the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) of the test signal that achieves the highest performance (i.e. best EVM, power, SNR, etc.) should match with the manufacturer’s declaration of the beam under test. The procedure for test case 3.2.3.2.3 (UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Predefined-beam Beamforming) should be used. 5. These expected results are applicable for either or both forms of this test. 6. If all of the above results are observed the test passes.

##### 3.2.5.1.9 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using Non-contiguous PRB Allocation
Section Extension 12 3GPP DL/UL – Resource Allocation A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can accurately interpret C-Plane resource allocation messages with section extension 12, transfer U-Plane data into the correct resource blocks and transmit this data accurately in the downlink and interpret and capture the correct resource blocks in the uplink with section extension 12. This test uses a PN23 sequence in all test PDSCH sections. Using the standard TDD test frame described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink and uplink the specified signal using section extension 12 in both uplink and downlink. In this test stock data section definition C will be used to exercise the non-contiguous RB allocation, all 273 PRBs (48 of the 51 in the uplink slots) or the max number of PRBs per symbol for the highest numerology the radio supports will be used in this test. Only one spatial stream on one antenna will be used. This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required). All downlink user data in this test will be a PN23 sequence and all uplink user data will also be a PN23 sequence. B. Test Entrance Criteria The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 of this document. The test numerology will be kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in clause 3.2.1.1.3. It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors. The radio must support section extension 12 as notified by the M-Plane. The signal analyser must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. Connect the signal analyser to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal. Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna port and configure it as described below. b. Procedure Build an appropriate IQ signal as described above in clause 3.2.1.1.3 in the CUSM emulator. In this case use a PN23 sequence for the downlink shared channel. Build the appropriate test frame (uplink slots) for the signal source. Use the CUSM emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the uplink and downlink signals. Every symbol used in the test should be described by a single section (DL-SCH that are used for the test, DMRS and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages for downlink slots only. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame. It will be the responsibility of the TER’s signal analyser and source to coordinate downlink and uplink TDD transmissions. The CUSM Emulator of the TER is responsible for receiving uplink U-Plane messages, extracting IQ and decoding it to bits which can be compared to those sent by the signal source. For the downlink slots and symbols: Only symbols number 6 and 7 will be used in each slot. Other symbols may contain data including reference signals to ensure test equipment can synchronize with the signal. The starting PRB will be zero and number of PRBs will be chosen from one or more columns I as shown in Table 3.2.5-4 below using configuration 2. Bandwidth Part Size Configuration 1 Configuration 2

# 37 – 72 4 8

# 73 – 144 8 16

# 145 – 275 16 16
Using the calculations in clause 7.7.6 of [2] for the test waveform described above, the ID of the last RBG will be 17, f(0) will be 16, f(n) will be 16 and f(lastRbgID) will be 1 (17 total RBGs). StartPrbc will be zero and numPrbc will be 273. If the radio does not support this numerology the following table will apply. The number of PRBs correspond to Table 3.2.5-5. # PRBs per Symbol (11-79) max PRB/sym 11 24 25 32 50 51 52 65 66 79 numPRBc 11 24 25 32 50 51 52 65 66 79 rbgSize 4 4 4 4 8 8 8 8 8 16 lastRbgID 2 5 6 7 6 6 6 8 8 4 f(0) 4 4 4 4 8 8 8 8 8 16 f(n) 4 4 4 4 8 8 8 8 8 16 f(lastRbgID) 3 4 1 4 2 3 4 1 2 15 # PRBs per Symbol (100-273) max PRB/sym 100 106 107 132 133 135 162 217 270 273 numPRBc 100 106 107 132 133 135 162 217 270 273 rbgSize 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 lastRbgID 6 6 6 8 8 8 10 13 16 17 f(0) 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 f(n) 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 f(lastRbgID) 4 10 11 4 5 7 2 9 14 1 Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator. Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal. Every symbol should be described by a single type 1 section (DL-SCH and DCI) except symbols #6 and #7 which will be used for the section extension 12 test. The data in symbol #6 should be a new PN23 sequence starting in the first PRB and continuing to PRB 273 (RBG number 17). Symbol #7 should be identical to symbol #6. The symMask value should be set to 00000011000000b. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. The relevant parameters for the downlink C-Plane message are shown in The O-DU emulator will build a U-Plane message containing the PN23 IQ data for the first 16 PRBs (RBG 0), this message will have the section ID used in the C-Plane message described above. Another U-Plane message will be created using the same section ID but with the PN23 data for RBGs 2-17 in it. The same U-Plane messages will be used for symbol #7. For the uplink sections and symbols: For this test symbols number 6 and 7 will be used in each slot. The starting PRB will be zero and number of PRBs will be 48. The resource block group size will be 16. Using the calculations in clause 7.7.6 of [2], the ID of the last RBG will be 17, f(0) will be 16, f(n) will be 16 and f(lastRbgID) will be 1. Every symbol should be described by a single type 1 section (DL-SCH and DCI) except symbols #6 and #7 which will be used for the section extension 6 test. The data in symbol #6 is expected to be a new PN23 sequence starting in the first PRB and continuing to PRB 48 (RBG number 2). Symbol #7 should be identical to symbol #6. The symMask value should be set to 00000011000000b. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. If the radio only supports another numerology see the tables above in the downlink sections and symbols for appropriate modifications. The relevant parameters for the uplink C-Plane message are shown in Figure 3.2.5.1-2 below: Steps:
- Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul Messages
- Launch test to play the C-Plane messages and the downlink U-Plane messages and trigger the
source to play the RF signal on a frame boundary.
- Play messages to the O-RU respecting the timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. Repeat
the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the frame.
- Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the
Antenna port
- Extract IQ information from the captured U-Plane messages
- Extract IQ information from the signal analyser for downlink slots
- Extract Payload for both signals
- Compare payload binary sequences
D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The signal measured by the signal analyser should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 2. The signal extracted by the U-Plane messages (uplink) should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 3. The test frame received by the signal analyser should be the same as the signal described above. If it contains all the same PRB assignments and the correct PN23 sequence as data, the downlink test passes. 4. The test frame extracted from the uplink U-Plane messages should be the same as the uplink signal described above. If it contains all the same PRB assignments and the correct PN23 sequence as data, the uplink test passes.

##### 3.2.5.1.10 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Static SRS Allocation UL – Resource Allocation
A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the O-RU can support static SRS configuration through the M-Plane. This is an uplink only test so there is no corresponding downlink test for TDD. The O-RU must report through the M-Plane that it supports static configuration of SRS. This test will use the standard TDD test frame described in clause 3.2.1.1. The test will have the CUSM emulator configure the O-RU, through the M-Plane, with a section of time/frequency resources reserved for static uplink SRS, these will be limited to the uplink slots of the TDD frame. The signal source will be programmed to send simulated SRS signals in a subset of those resources. The O-RU should receive this SRS signals and pass them through to the CUSM emulator using U-Plane messages. Note, there will be no C-Plane messages sent from the CUSM emulator and the O-RU. The signal generator will signal power levels at least 30 dB above Reference Sensitivity power Level described in TS 138.141-1 Table 7.2.5-1. This is to improve the likelihood that all data will be received by the radio correctly since we are not interested in testing receiver sensitivity but only the O-RAN protocol compliance. The placement of the time frequency resources is not specified in this test so it may be placed in any uplink slots of the TDD frame. The TER (Test Equipment, O-RU) generates an uplink SRS signal on the antenna connector or TAB connector. The TER will capture the U-Plane messages generated by the DUT and validate whether the payload matches the uplink signal as well as beam characteristics. The metric used to validate that the signal received by the CUSM emulator matches the signal sent by the signal generator will be EVM as described in Annex H.7 of ETSI TS 138.141. While some 3GPP test documents (e.g. ETSI TS 138.521 clause 6.4.2.1.3) suggest treating the EVM requirements for physical Zadoff-Chu sequences such as PRACH the same as QPSK for EVM requirements, this document will decrease the required EVM to the level specified for 64 QAM. The purpose of this is to ensure that there is no chance of false positives where a random, mistaken signal sent by the O-RU closely mimics the test signal used by the TER. Since there are no impairments made to the uplink SRS signal this should be well within the capabilities of the O-RU. B. Test Entrance Criteria The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 of this document. The O-RU must indicate it supports static SRS allocation. The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth. It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors. Note this signal may be changed to any of the 3GPP sensitivity test signals in ETSI TS 138.141-1 if the radio does not support the numerology and bandwidth used in this test. The test signal described in this clause will be used if the radio supports that numerology and bandwidth. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M- Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna port and configure the source to transmit the required SRS test signal upon receiving a trigger signal from the CUSM-E. The signal source power level should be adjusted to at least 30 dB above the setting used in the 3GPP receiver sensitivity test. Implicit in this Initial set up is statically configuring O-RU with a section of time/frequency resources for static SRS signals. . b. Procedure
- Build an SRS signal in the signal generator that fits in the preconfigured time frequency resources set
in the initial configuration.
- Load the waveform into the signal source:
- Configure signal source to play test waveforms on 10ms frame boundaries starting when it receives a
trigger signal from the O-DU emulator that signals the start of a frame boundary.
- Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul Messages
- Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the Antenna
port connected
- TER will arrange U-Plane messages according to time and frequency
- Start SRS waveform generation on the signal generator. Ensure the test frame is repeated enough times
to generate a statistically significant number of SRS occasions. That is at least 10 occasions.
- Extract IQ information
- Calculate EVM of the SRS signal received by the CUSM emulator to the ideal signal generated by the
signal source. Use the method described in ETSI TS 138.141 Annex H.7 to perform the calculation. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The verdict is “Test pass” if the calculated EVM is less than 8% as median EVM measured over the minimum number of SRS occasions of at least 10 occasions. 2. If any of the test conditions are not true, the verdict for the whole test is "Fail"

##### 3.2.5.1.11 UC Plane O-RU Base Class TDD Test UL – Static PRACH allocation
A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the O-RU can support static PRACH configuration through the M-Plane. This is an uplink only test so there is no corresponding downlink test for downlink slots. The O-RU must report through the M-Plane that it supports static configuration of PRACH. The concept is to repeat the spirit of test 3.2.3.8.1 (5GNR PRACH test) without sending any C-Plane type 3 messages and configuring the O-RU using only the M- Plane. TER will setup the signal generator with a PRACH test waveform according to ETSI TS 138.211 clause 6.3.3, ETSI TS 138.141-1 clause 8.4.1 and A.6. The test waveform will contain the same preamble ID for every occasion repeated by following the timing offset scheme specified in the figures 8.4.1.4.2-2 or 8.4.1.4.2-3 ETSI TS 138.141-1 depending on the selected PRACH format. This is an example for FR1 – SCS=30 kHz – BW=100MHz – Format A3 configuration index 132 (From Table 6.3.3.2-3, unpaired spectrum), on each occasion the time offset of the same preamble index (selected according to Table A.6-1 ETSI TS 138.141.1) is incremented by 100nsec starting from 0 up to 800nsec (9 occasions per frame). Each PRACH occasion is at the beginning of the first nine used sub-frames. The scheme is repeated every frame. The test must be conducted using a PRACH format and configuration index the radio has reported it supports. According to the PRACH waveform setting, the TER will generate a corresponding sequence of M-Plane messages which include the following parameters (According to the M-Plane specification and the PRACH configuration index supported):
- grouping static-prach-configuration
- leaf pattern-period - "Period after which static PRACH patterns are repeated. Unit: number of frames."
- leaf guard-tone-low-re - "Number of REs occupied by the low guard tones."
- leaf num-prach-re - "Number of contiguous PRBs per data section description“
- leaf guard-tone-high-re - "Number of REs occupied by the high guard tones.“
- leaf sequence-duration - "Duration of single sequence of the PRACH. Sequence may be considered as
'single PRACH symbol’”
- list prach-patterns - key prach-pattern-id - "Provides a PRACH pattern. Each record in the list represents a
single PRACH occasion. Number of list entries cannot exceed max-prach-patterns“
- leaf prach-pattern-id - "Supplementary parameter acting as key for prach-pattern list.“
- leaf number-of-repetitions - "This parameter defines number of PRACH repetitions in PRACH
occasion, to which the section control is applicable”
- leaf number-of-occasions - "This parameter informs how many consecutive PRACH occasions is
described by the PRACH Pattern”
- leaf re-offset – “Offset between the start of the lowest-frequency RE of the lowest frequency PRB and
the start of the lowest frequency RE belonging to the PRACH occasion. The re-offset is configured as number of PRACH REs.”
- list occasion-parameters – “list of cp-lengths, gp-lengths and beam-ids applicable per each PRACH
occasion in PRACH pattern.”
> NOTE: the number of records in this list MUST be equal to value of parameter number-of-occasions.
- leaf occasion-id - "Supplementary parameter acting as key in 'occasion-parameters' list“
- leaf cp-length - "Cyclic prefix length. See CUS-Plane specification for detailed description.“
- leaf gp-length - "Guard period length.“
- leaf beam-id - "This parameter defines the beam pattern to be applied to the U-Plane data.
beamId = 0 means no beamforming operation will be performed."
- leaf frame-number - "This parameter is an index inside the pattern-length, such that PRACH occasion
is happening for SFN which fulfils following equation: [SFN mod pattern-length = frame-id]“
- leaf sub-frame-id - "Identifier of sub-frame of the PRACH occasion. Value is interpreted in the same
way as subframeId field in a section description of a C-Plane message.“
- leaf time-offset - "This parameter defines the time-offset from the start of the sub-frame to the start of
the first Cyclic Prefix of PRACH pattern" By the corresponding U-Plane messages in the uplink direction, the TER will try to detect the presence of the corresponding preamble at the expected timing offset and calculate the probability of detection Pd according to the definition in TS38.141-1 clause 8.4.1.1. The signal will be exercised at only one O-RU port without adding any external AWGN power level or multipath fading profile and at a power level avoiding detection errors due to poor SNR (rule described in the sub-section C of this scenario class). The test will have the CUSM emulator configure the O-RU, through the M-Plane, with a section of time/frequency resources reserved for static uplink PRACH. The default is the PRACH configuration described in 3GPP above, but the test may be conducted with changes if the radio does not support those exact configurations. The signal source will be programmed to send simulated PRACH signals in those resources. The O-RU should receive this PRACH signal and pass them through to the CUSM emulator using U-Plane messages. Note, there will be no C- Plane messages sent from the CUSM emulator and the O-RU. B. Test Entrance Criteria O-RU must have a conducted antenna port (FR1) or TAB connector. By the M-plane or by manufacturer declaration, TER will detect all the supported SCSs, FFT sizes and carrier bandwidths by the O-RU. It is assumed that only one combination of the three above parameters supported by the O-RU is enough to validate the test. TER will choose the format either according to the PRACH Configuration Index in ETSI TS 138.211 clause 6.3.3 Table 6.3.3.2-2 and the available frequency resource, or according to the manufacturer declaration item D.103 “PRACH format and SCS” in ETSI TS 138.141-1 or according to the format information obtained by the M-plane in case O-RU implements this feature. TER shall generate M-Plane messages conformant to the selected format. If more formats are claimed, only one shall be selected to reduce the test time, preference will be given to a format specified in Table A.6.1 ETSI TS 138.141. It is assumed that the O-RU manufacturer will support at least one in that table. For the case of long preambles, it is assumed format 0 is always supported since this is the only one shown in the Table A.6-1 ETSI TS 138.141. C. Test Methodology a: Initial Conditions Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M- Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna port and configure the source to transmit the required PRACH test signal upon receiving a trigger signal from the CUSM-E. Implicit in this Initial set up is statically configuring O-RU with a section of time/frequency resources for static PRACH signals. b: Procedure
- Set signal generator power to at least 30 dB above the setting used in the 3GPP receiver sensitivity test
described in ETSI TS 138.141-1 clause 7.2.5.
- Set signal generator frequency offset to the central carrier frequency. PRACH will be mapped over
frequency according to msg1-FrequencyStart (nstart ) parameter equal to 0. PRACH format is set according RA to what TER has selected from the manufacturer declarations.
- Start PRACH waveform generation on the signal generator. Ensure the test frame is repeated enough times
to generate a statistically significant number of PRACH occasions. That is at least 10 occasions.
- TER will perform PRACH detection per each PRACH occasion in each frame sent and compare the result
with the expected preamble ID and the expected timing offset. Since the external AWGN and fading generator are not present the time error tolerance should be low, TER will use the time error tolerance in counter of successful detections is incremented at every matching. The probability of detection is given by the ratio between that counter and the number of the expected received PRACH occasions within the test time.
- Repeat the test procedure by setting msg1-FrequencyStart
(nstart ) parameter to the right edge of the RA configured carrier bandwidth in order to exercise a different frequency offset number D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. Test is pass if the probability of detection is 100% determined across the minimum amount of at least 10 occasions.

##### 3.2.5.1.12 UC Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using section extension 13 for frequency hopping UL/DL – Resource Allocation
A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to validate the capability of the O-RU to correctly interpret section extension 13, frequency hopping, for the uplink. Note, since frequency hopping is only used in uplink in 5G NR this test will be limited to the uplink slots of the basic TDD signal. Using the standard TDD test frame described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink and uplink of the specified signal using section extension 13 for the uplink. The downlink portion of the test is not part of this test and may be any signal or no downlink signal at all. In this test stock data section definition C will be used to exercise the non-contiguous RB allocation, all 273 PRBs (48 of the 51 in the uplink slots) or the max number of PRBs per symbol for the highest numerology the radio supports will be used in this test. Only one spatial stream on one antenna will be used. This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required). B. Test Entrance Criteria The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 of this document. The test numerology will be kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in clause 3.2.1.1.3. It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors. The radio must support section extension 13 as notified by the M-Plane. The signal analyser must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. Connect the signal analyser to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal. Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna port and configure it as described below. b. Procedure Build an appropriate IQ signal as described above in clause 3.2.1.1.3 in the CUSM emulator. In this case use a PN23 sequence for the downlink shared channel. Build the appropriate test frame (uplink slots) for the signal source. Use the CUSM emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the uplink and downlink signals. Every symbol used in the test should be described by a single section (DL-SCH that are used for the test, DMRS and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages for downlink slots only. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame. It will be the responsibility of the TER’s signal analyser and source to coordinate downlink and uplink TDD transmissions. The CUSM Emulator of the TER is responsible for receiving uplink U-Plane messages, extracting IQ and decoding it to bits which can be compared to those sent by the signal source. For the downlink slots and symbols: Any signal may be used if needed by the TER or no downlink signal may be used. For the uplink sections and symbols: Load uplink test waveform (G-FR1-A1-5 : SCS130k_51RB) on the RF signal source. Note this signal should contain a new PN23 sequence as user data in PRBs 0 through 50 for symbol 6 and PRBs 100 through 151 for symbol 7. This will be copied for all uplink slots. The remainder of the test waveform is as described in 3GPP. Configure signal source to play test waveforms on 10ms frame boundaries starting when it receives a trigger signal from the O-DU emulator that C-Plane messages have been sent. Load a C-Plane message on Test Equipment O-RU (TER) – Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane message that describes this uplink signal. This section should have startSymbolId = 6, numPrbc = 51, and section extension 13 attached. The section extension should have nextSymbolId = 7 and nextStartPrbc = 100. Steps:
- Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul Messages
- Launch test to play the C-Plane messages and the downlink U-Plane messages (if needed) and
trigger the source to play the RF signal on a frame boundary.
- Play messages to the O-RU respecting the timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. Repeat
the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the frame.
- Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the
Antenna port
- Extract IQ information from the captured U-Plane messages
- Extract IQ information from the signal analyser for downlink slots (if needed)
- Extract Payload for both signals
- Compare payload binary sequences
D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The signal extracted by the U-Plane messages (uplink) should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 2. The verdict is “Test pass” if the test frame received by the signal analyser contains two U-Plane messages for this section ID one containing the PN23 sequence for the first 51 PRBs in symbol 6 and PRBs 100 through 151 for symbol #7 containing the PN23 sequence sent by the signal source for those PRBs.

#### 3.2.5.2 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming (BFM)
This clause describes the beamforming conformance testing for O-RAN fronthaul interface. The tests do not aim to test the O-RU beamforming performance or capabilities but to test that the O-RU under test focuses the RF energy or sensitivity into a specific direction and with a specific granularity following the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) C-Plane messages. Unless stated otherwise in a test case, the following statements apply to all the test cases defined in this clause:
- It is based on conducted testing with a setup such as described in clause 2.1 and it only applies to O-RU DUTs
that have conducted antenna ports or TAB connectors.
- It applies to Category A and Category B O-RU DUTs.
- It applies to LTE and/or 5G New Radio O-RU DUTs. In both cases, precoding is not required in any test case.
- If O-RU DUT supports Analog Beamforming (i.e. time domain beamforming), all the U-Plane test frames are
defined by segmenting the Stock Test A: 1 section per symbol. The definition of this Stock Test A can be found in Figure 3.2.1.1-2 and the description accompanying this figure. Each slot shall include multiple sections (one per symbol within the slot) and only one beam at a time (i.e. one beamId at a time) and therefore only one beam can be tested per slot.
- If O-RU DUT supports Digital Beamforming (i.e. frequency domain beamforming), all the U-Plane test frames
are defined by segmenting the Stock Test B: 2 sections per symbol definition as shown in Figure 3.2.1.1-2. Each slot shall include multiple sections (two per symbol within the slot) and only one beam per section at a time (i.e. one beamId at a time) and therefore up to two different beams can be tested per slot.
- If O-RU DUT supports multiple polarizations, it is up to the TER to determine if the testing is carried out for
each polarization separately or multiple polarizations at the same time. In any case, it is important to guarantee that the correct eAxC_ID for the correct polarization (or polarizations) is exercised.
- For O-RU DUT that support TDD:
- The tests may use any combination of Downlink and Uplink standard 3GPP LTE test frames found in
clause 6.1.1.1 of ETSI TS 136.141-1.
- For example, the following TDD test waveform could be used for this test:
o 20MHz bandwidth with 100 RBs assigned o Uplink/Downlink Configuration set to 3 o Special Subframe Configuration set to 8 o DwPTS Length set to 11 Symbols o GP lengths set to 1 Symbol o UpPTS Length set to 2 Symbols.
- The full test radio frame is shown in Figure 3.2.5.2-1.
If 20MHz is not supported by the O-RU DUT, then it will use the highest bandwidth supported by the O- RU DUT.
- For O-RU DUT that support 5G NR:
o The tests will use a combination of Downlink and Uplink standard 3GPP 5G NR test frames. See figure. o The Downlink part of the radio frame will use a standard 3GPP NR-FR1-TM1.1 test frame for TDD in [19] (clause 4.9.2 TS138.141-1) of the Conducted Transmitter Characteristic Test (clause 6 TS138.141-1) as described in clause 3.2.1.1. The test numerology will be preferably 30kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth. If not supported, then it will use any other supported subcarrier spacing and the highest bandwidth of the O-RU DUT. o The Uplink part of the radio frame will use a standard 3GPP Reference Sensitivity level definition (clause 7.2 and Annex A TS138.141-1) of the Conducted Receiver Characteristic Test (clause 7 ETSI TS 138.141) and power levels at least 30dB above Reference Sensitivity power level as described in clause 3.2.1.1. The test numerology will be preferably 30kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth, if supported. Otherwise, it will use any available subcarrier space and the highest bandwidth supported by the O-RU DUT. o The Downlink symbols are allocated at slots 0 to 7 and 10 to 17. o The Uplink symbols are allocated at slots 7 to 9 and 17 to 19. o Note that slots 7 and 17 have symbols allocated for Downlink, symbols 0 to 5, some other symbols assigned as Guard Period where no signal is transmitted or expected to be received, symbols 6 to 9, and finally some other symbols allocated for Uplink, symbols 10 to 13.
- The O-RU DUT:
o supports the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.1 of this document. o has installed current release of shipping software. o has at least two conducted antenna ports (or TAB connectors) to be connected to a signal analyser. Likewise, it must have at least two conducted antenna ports or TAB connectors to be connected to a signal generator. o is fully calibrated up to the antenna ports or (TAB connectors) (if needed). It is expected to be calibrated by O-RU vendor prior to testing.
- The TER:
o is capable of carrying out any signal processing required to generate and demodulate 3GPP compliant waveforms. o is able to calculate or extract beamweights (or magnitude and phase relations) between antenna ports or TAB connectors. Alternatively, and if the O-RU DUT manufacturer provides the list of beam directions supported by the O-RU DUT, TER might calculate or extract the beam direction instead of the beamweights. o is able to generate and deliver signals with the required beamweights (or magnitude and phase relations) at the antenna ports or TAB connectors. o is fully calibrated up to the interfaces where is connected to the O-RU DUT antenna ports (or TAB connectors). For that, a known test signal might be either injected by the TER into the O-RU DUT, or internally generated by the O-RU DUT, and the O-RU DUT must not apply any digital or analogue beamweights to the known test signal. One possible method to perform calibration uses injected C-Plane and U-Plane signals from TER into the O-RU and using C-Plane messages with beamID=0.
- The O-DU emulator of the TER:
o is capable of generating and sending U-Plane messages containing 3GPP test frames following the corresponding Stock sectioning defined above, as well as be capable of capturing U-Plane messages and extracting 3GPP test frames (i.e. IQ data) from the captured U-Plane messages. o is capable of generating the C-Plane messages for, receiving, extracting and demodulating the 3GPP test frames following the corresponding Stock sectioning defined above.
- For DMRS-BF tests, the TER setup modifications are:
o RF Signal Generator / System which can be a combination of test equipment, or an integrated one, that provides all the testing capabilities needed: ▪ RF Signal Generator capable of generating wanted signals (3GPP compliant SU-MIMO and MU- MIMO signals). ▪ RF Signal Generator capable of generating Additive white Gaussian Noise and Interference signals. It can be a single device or multiple devices. ▪ Beamformer to apply beam weights to each of the signals under tests o CUSM-Plane emulator with expanded capability: ▪ is able to operate with and without reference Channel Estimation (CE) and Equalization (EQ) over the received signal from DUT (Uplink direction).
> NOTE: The definition of the reference algorithms used for Channel Estimation and Equalization in the
TER are not specified in the current document. ▪ is capable of measuring and reporting EVM measurements after CE and EQ if receiving unequalised IQ data (when testing O-RU DUT with DMRS-BF-NEQ), or directly from received equalized IQ data (when testing O-RU DUT with DMRS-BF-EQ), ▪ is capable of measuring and reporting BER and/or BLER measurements of the received signal from DUT (Uplink direction) after demapping and decoding,
> NOTE: The definition of the reference algorithms used for demapping and decoding in the TER are not
specified in the current document. ▪ is capable of parsing ST9 and ST10 messages to extract SINR and RRM measurements.
- The TER might have less testing ports than the O-RU DUT conducted antenna ports (or TAB connectors) if
testing is carried out sequentially; or as many antenna ports as the number of conducted antenna ports (or TAB connectors) under test if testing is carried out simultaneously.
- It is up to the TER on how to extract the beamweights (or magnitude and phase relation) between the antenna
ports or TAB connectors, or the beam direction / properties, in order to match it with the manufacturer’s declaration.
- The user payload will be generated as PN23 with a seed of all ones.
- It applies to the following O-RAN CUS Specification [2]:
o Clause 7.4 o Clause 8.3.2 o Clause 8.3.3 o Clause 12 o Annex J

##### 3.2.5.2.1 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – No Beamforming
A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit a basic 3GPP test frame with no beamforming (beamId=0x000) and with one spatial stream (single eAxC). B. Test Entrance Criteria
- Manufacturers’ declaration that defines list of magnitude and phase relation (or beamweights) between
antenna ports or TAB connectors and/or beam directions with antenna array characteristics when O-RU DUT is operating with no beamforming. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions
- Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation
using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.
- Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna
ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.
- Connect the signal analyser to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the beam under
test and configure the analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.
- Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.
b. Procedure a. Build an appropriate IQ signal described above in the O-DU emulator. b. Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by either one or two sections (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. Section type zero messages will be used to signal Guard Period resources in the test waveform. c. Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause0. d. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame. e. Extract either the beamweights, or magnitude and phase relation, or beam direction from the measured signal. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The signal measured by the signal analyser should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 2. The test frame received by the signal analyser should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data. 3. The signal relation (i.e. beamweights, or magnitude and phase relation) between antenna ports or TAB connectors, or the extracted beam direction, should match the expected relation, or beam direction, for the expected no beamforming within a tolerance defined by the manufacturer. 3.2.5.2.2. UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – No Beamforming A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can receive a basic 3GPP test frame with no beamforming (beamId=0x000) and with one spatial stream (single eAxC). B. Test Entrance Criteria
- Manufacturers’ declaration that defines list of magnitude and phase relation (or beamweights) between antenna
ports or TAB connectors and/or beam directions with antenna array characteristics when O-RU DUT is operating with no beamforming. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions
- Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation
using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.
- Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna
ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.
- Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the beam under test
and configure the source with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and generate the test signal.
- Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.
b. Procedure a. Build an appropriate test signal described above in the signal source of the TER. b. Inject the test signal into the O-RU with the application of an initial set of beamweights, or equivalently magnitude and phase relation, between all the TER ports connected to the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) to emulate the phase and magnitude difference “seen” by the antenna elements under test. For example, initial beamweights could be set to be “all equal” (i.e. no beamforming). c. Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by either one or two sections (UL-SCH) using Section Type 1 messages. d. Play the C plane messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. while also triggering the signal source. e. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the DUT, allow it to create and send the U plane messages to the O-DU and for the O-DU to demodulate, decode and extract the payload. f. Repeat the previous steps but now in step b apply a different set of beamweights or phase relation between all the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) when injecting the test signal into the O-RU. For example, repeating the process for a number of different beamweights will simulate the reception of the test signal from different beam directions. This allows to determine if the O-RU is really focusing the sensitivity to the correct beam direction. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The test frame received by the TER/O-DU should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data. 2. The beamweights or magnitude and phase relation at the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) of the test signal that achieves the highest performance (i.e. best EVM, power, SNR, etc.) should match with the manufacturer’s declaration of the phase relation expected for no beamforming.

##### 3.2.5.2.3 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Predefined-beam
Beamforming A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit a basic 3GPP test frame with predefined-beams beamforming (beamId≠0x000) and with one spatial stream (single eAxC). The transmitted beam direction is measured for each indexed beam required in this measurement, see below. The measured transmitted direction is compared to manufacturer-designated direction. Transmitted direction could be defined by the phase relation between the antenna ports or TAB connectors under test, or directly by extracting the beam direction. Depending on the O-RU beamforming capabilities regarding the ability to generate “coarse”, “fine” and/or “beam groups”, as defined in clause 12.4.2.2 of [2]. The elevation θ and azimuth Φ angles are defined as in [2] clause 10.4.1.1: The UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Predefined-beam Beamforming conformance test might include multiple tests that the O-RU must comply: a. “Coarse” beamIds test: If O-RU supports and reports beamIds that are defined as coarse granularity (coarse beamIds) to the O-DU emulator, the test should include the following beams: 1. A coarse beam with 0 degrees azimuth (Φ) and elevation (θ) angles. 2. A coarse beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ). 3. A coarse beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ). 4. A coarse beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ). 5. A coarse beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ). If the O-RU only supports one azimuth (Φ) or elevation angle (θ), fewer than 5 beam angles will be measured. b. “Fine” beamIds test: If O-RU supports and reports beamIds that are defined as fine granularity (fine beamIds) to the O-DU emulator, the test should include the following beams: 1. A fine beam with 0 degrees azimuth (Φ) and elevation (θ) angles. 2. A fine beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ). 3. A fine beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ). 4. A fine beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ). 5. A fine beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ). If the O-RU only supports one azimuth or elevation angle, fewer than 5 beam angles will be measured. c. “beam-group” beamIds test: If O-RU supports and reports beamIds that belong to same and different beam-groups to the O-DU emulator, the test should include the following beams: 1. All beams that belong to a beam-group with 0 degrees azimuth (Φ) or elevation (θ) angles. 2. All beams that belong to a beam-group with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ). 3. All beams that belong to a beam-group with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ). 4. All beams that belong to a beam-group with maximum supported elevation angle (θ). 5. All beams that belong to a beam-group with minimum supported elevation angle (θ). If the O-RU only supports one azimuth or elevation angle, fewer than 5 beam-groups will be measured. B. Test Entrance Criteria
- Manufacturers’ defined list of beam indices and their associated magnitude and phase relation between antenna
ports or TAB connectors and/or beam directions with antenna array characteristics. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions
- Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using
M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.
- Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna
ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.
- Connect the signal analyser to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the beam under
test and configure the analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.
- Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.
b. Procedure a. Build an appropriate IQ signal described above in the O-DU emulator. b. Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by either one or two sections (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. c. Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. d. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame. e. Extract either the beamweights, or magnitude and phase relation, or beam direction from the measured signal. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The signal measured by the signal analyser should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 2. The test frame received by the signal analyser should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data. 3. The signal relation (i.e. beamweights, or magnitude and phase relation) between antenna ports or TAB connectors, or the extracted beam direction, should match the expected relation, or beam direction, corresponding to the beam under test within a tolerance defined by the manufacturer.

##### 3.2.5.2.4 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – Predefined-beam
Beamforming A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can receive a basic 3GPP test frame with predefined-beams beamforming (beamId≠0x000) and with one spatial stream (single eAxC). The same description and criteria for selecting the beams to be tested applies as in clause 3.2.3.2.3 applies, but instead it is related to the uplink direction. B. Test Entrance Criteria
- Manufacturers’ defined list of beam indices and their associated magnitude and phase relation between antenna
ports or TAB connectors and/or beam directions with antenna array characteristics. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions
- Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using
M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.
- Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna
ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.
- Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the beam under test
and configure the source with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and generate the test signal.
- Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.
b. Procedure a. Build an appropriate test signal described above in the signal source of the TER. b. Inject the test signal into the O-RU with the application of an initial set of beamweights, or equivalently magnitude and phase relation, between all the TER ports connected to the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) to emulate the phase and magnitude difference “seen” by the antenna elements under test. For example, initial beamweights could be set to be “all equal” (i.e. no beamforming). c. Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by either one or two sections (UL-SCH) using Section Type 1 messages. d. Play the C plane messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. while also triggering the signal source. e. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the DUT, allow it to create and send the U plane messages to the O-DU and for the O-DU to demodulate, decode and extract the payload. f. Repeat the previous steps but now in step b apply a different set of beamweights or phase relation between all the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) when injecting the test signal into the O-RU. For example, repeating the process for a number of different beamweights will simulate the reception of the test signal from different beam directions. This allows to determine if the O-RU is really focusing the sensitivity to the correct beam direction. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The test frame received by the TER/O-DU should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data. 2. The beamweights or magnitude and phase relation at the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) of the test signal that achieves the highest performance (i.e. best EVM, power, SNR, etc.) should match with the manufacturer’s declaration of the beam under test.

##### 3.2.5.2.5 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Weight-based
Dynamic Beamforming A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit a basic 3GPP test frame with weight-based dynamic beamforming with one spatial stream (single eAxC). The transmitted beam direction is measured for each weighted beam required in this measurement, see below. The measured transmitted direction is compared to manufacturer-designated direction. Transmitted direction could be defined by the phase relation between the antenna ports or TAB connectors under test, or by directly extracting the beam direction. The elevation θ and azimuth Φ angles are defined in clause 12.4.2.2 of [2]. The UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Weight-based Dynamic Beamforming conformance test should evaluate the following beams for the O-RU to comply: a. A weight-based beam with 0 degrees azimuth (Φ) and elevation (θ) angles. b. A weight-based beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ). c. A weight-based beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ). d. A weight-based beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ). e. A weight-based beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ). If the O-RU only supports one azimuth (Φ) or elevation angle (θ), fewer than 5 beam angles will be measured. The user/tester selects the bitwidth for the mantissa or scaler of the compression method applied to the beams. The UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Weight—based Dynamic Beamforming conformance test should also evaluate the following compression methods for each of the supported beams described above (a. to e.) for the O-RU to comply: a. No compression method applied to the beamforming weights. b. Block floating point compression method applied to the beamforming weights with the selected number of bit mantissa. c. Block scaling compression method applied to the beamforming weights with the selected number of bit scaler. d. μ-law compression method applied to the beamforming weights with the selected number of bit fixed width. e. Depending on what type of Beamspace compression the DUT supports, either Beamspace compression method applied to the beamforming weights with the selected number of bit scaler, or Beamspace compression method applied to the beamforming weights with the selected number of bit mantissa. If the O-RU does not support all the compression methods described above, fewer than 5 compression methods will be measured. B. Test Entrance Criteria
- Manufacturers’ defined list of frequency domain (ϕ) and or time domain (θ) weights for each supported beam,
or alternatively, list of gain and phase relation, or complex beam weights, between antenna ports or TAB connectors for each supported beam. Also, the O-RU needs to report to the O-DU the antenna array characteristics. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions
- Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation
using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.
- Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna
ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.
- Connect the signal analyser to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the beam under
test and configure the analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.
- Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.
b. Procedure a. Build an appropriate IQ signal described above in the O-DU emulator. b. Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by one or two sections (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages, the sections in the first symbol of the slot will contain section extension extType=0x01 to convey the beam weights, it is not required that the next sections contain extension type 1 since the same beam IDs will not change along the slot. If O-RU does not support a field, then its value should be 0x0. c. Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. d. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame. e. Extract either the beamweights, or magnitude and phase relation, or beam direction from the measured signal. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The signal measured by the signal analyser should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 2. The test frame received by the signal analyser should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data. 3. The signal relation (i.e. beamweights, or magnitude and phase relation) between antenna ports or TAB connectors, or the extracted beam direction, should match the expected relation, or beam direction, corresponding to the beam under test within a tolerance defined by the manufacturer.

##### 3.2.5.2.6 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – Weight-based
Dynamic Beamforming A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can receive a basic 3GPP test frame with weight-based beamforming and with one spatial stream (single eAxC). The same description and criteria for selecting the beams to be tested applies as in clause 3.2.3.2.5 but applies to the uplink direction. B. Test Entrance Criteria
- Manufacturers’ defined list of frequency domain (ϕ) and or time domain (θ) weights for each supported beam,
or alternatively, list of gain and phase relation, or complex beam weights, between antenna ports or TAB connectors for each supported beam. Also, the O-RU needs to report to the O-DU the antenna array characteristics C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions
- Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation
using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.
- Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna
ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.
- Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the beam under test
and configure the source with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and generate the test signal.
- Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.
b. Procedure a. Build an appropriate test signal described above in the signal source of the TER. b. Inject the test signal into the O-RU with the application of an initial set of beamweights, or equivalently magnitude and phase relation, between all the TER ports connected to the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) to emulate the phase and magnitude difference “seen” by the antenna elements under test. For example, initial beamweights could be set to be “all equal” (i.e. no beamforming). c. Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by one or two sections (UL-SCH) using Section Type 1 messages, the sections in the first symbol of the slot will contain section extension extType=0x01 to convey the beam weights, it is not required that the next sections contain extension type 1 since the same beam IDs will not change along the slot. If O-RU does not support a field, then its value should be 0x0. d. Play the C plane messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. while also triggering the signal source. e. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the DUT, allow it to create and send the U plane messages to the O-DU and for the O-DU to demodulate, decode and extract the payload. f. Repeat the previous steps but now in step b apply a different set of beamweights or phase relation between all the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) when injecting the test signal into the O-RU. For example, repeating the process for a number of different beamweights will simulate the reception of the test signal from different beam directions. This allows to determine if the O-RU is really focusing the sensitivity to the correct beam direction. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The test frame received by the TER/O-DU should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data. 2. The beamweights or magnitude and phase relation at the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) of the test signal that achieves the highest performance (i.e. best EVM, power, SNR, etc.) should match with the manufacturer’s declaration of the beam under test.

##### 3.2.5.2.7 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Attribute-based
Dynamic Beamforming A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit a basic 3GPP test frame with attributed-based dynamic beamforming with one spatial stream (single eAxC). If the O-RU DUT supports Attribute based Dynamic Beamforming, this test is mandatory for the O-RU DUT to be O-RAN conformant. The transmitted beam direction and attributes are measured for each attributed beam required in this measurement, see below. The measured transmitted direction and attributes, i.e. pointing azimuth and elevation angles, beamwidths and sidelobe suppression, is compared to manufacturer-designated direction and attributes. Transmitted direction and beam attributes are defined by the magnitude and phase relation between the antenna ports or TAB connectors under test, or by directly extracting the beam properties. The elevation θ and azimuth Φ angles are defined in clause 12.4.2.2 of [2]. The UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Attribute-based Dynamic Beamforming conformance test should evaluate the following beams for the O-RU to comply: a. An attribute-based beam with 0 degrees azimuth (Φ) and elevation (θ) angles with any beamwidth and sidelobe suppression supported by the O-RU under this beam direction. b. An attribute-based beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ) with the widest beamwidth and lowest sidelobe suppression supported for this specific beam direction. c. An attribute-based beam with maximum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ) with the narrowest beamwidth and highest sidelobe suppression supported for this specific beam direction. d. An attribute-based beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and maximum supported elevation angle (θ) with the widest beamwidth and lowest sidelobe suppression supported for this specific beam direction. e. An attribute-based beam with minimum supported azimuth angle (Φ) and minimum supported elevation angle (θ) with the narrowest beamwidth and highest sidelobe suppression supported for this specific beam direction. If the O-RU only supports one azimuth (Φ) or elevation angle (θ), fewer than 5 beam angles and attribute configurations will be measured. B. Test Entrance Criteria
- Manufacturers’ defined list of supported beam directions (azimuth ϕ and elevation θ angles) attributes that are
supported by the O-RU and their associated gain and phase relation, or complex weight, between antenna ports or TAB connectors and/or beam directions with antenna array characteristics. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions
- Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation
using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.
- Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna
ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.
- Connect the signal analyser to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the beam under
test and configure the analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal.
- Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.
b. Procedure a. Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal described above in the O-DU emulator. b. Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by one or two sections (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages, the sections in the first symbol of the slot will contain section extension extType=0x02 to convey the beam weights, it is not required that the next sections contain extension type 2 since the same beam IDs will not change along the slot. If O-RU does not support a field, then its value should be 0x0. c. Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. d. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame. e. Extract either the beamweights, or magnitude and phase relation, or beam properties from the measured signal. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The signal measured by the signal analyser should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 2. The test frame received by the signal analyser should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data. 3. The signal relation (i.e. beamweights, or magnitude and phase relation) between antenna ports or TAB connectors, or the extracted beam properties, should match the expected beam properties corresponding to the beam under test within a tolerance defined by the manufacturer.

##### 3.2.5.2.8 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – Attribute-based
Dynamic Beamforming A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can receive a basic 3GPP test frame with attribute-based beamforming with one spatial stream (single eAxC). Same description and criteria for selecting the beams to be tested applies as in clause 3.2.3.2.7 but considering uplink direction. B. Test Entrance Criteria
- Manufacturers’ defined list of supported beam directions (azimuth ϕ and elevation θ angles) attributes that are
supported by the O-RU and their associated gain and phase relation, or complex weight, between antenna ports or TAB connectors and/or beam directions with antenna array characteristics C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions
- Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using
M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.
- Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna
ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.
- Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the beam under test
and configure the source with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and generate the test signal.
- Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.
b. Procedure a. Build an appropriate test signal described above in the signal source of the TER. b. Inject the test signal into the O-RU with the application of an initial set of beamweights, or equivalently magnitude and phase relation, between all the TER ports connected to the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) to emulate the phase and magnitude difference “seen” by the antenna elements under test. For example, initial beamweights could be set to be “all equal” (i.e. no beamforming). c. Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by one or two sections (UL-SCH) using Section Type 1 messages, the sections in the first symbol of the slot will contain section extension extType=0x02 to convey the beam weights, it is not required that the next sections contain extension type 2 since the same beam IDs will not change along the slot. If O-RU does not support a field, then its value should be 0x0. d. Play the C plane messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. while also triggering the signal source. e. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the DUT, allow it to create and send the U plane messages to the O-DU and for the O-DU to demodulate, decode and extract the payload. f. Repeat the previous steps but now in step b apply a different set of beamweights or magnitude and phase relation between all the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) when injecting the test signal into the O-RU. For example, repeating the process for a number of different sets of beamweights will simulate the reception of the test signal from different beam directions. This allows to determine if the O-RU is really focusing the sensitivity to the correct beam properties. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The test frame received by the TER/O-DU should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data. 2. The beamweights or magnitude and phase relation at the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) of the test signal that achieves the highest performance (i.e. best EVM, power, SNR, etc.) should match with the manufacturer’s declaration of the beam under test.

##### 3.2.5.2.9 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Channel-Information- based Beamforming
A. Test Description and Applicability This Test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit a basic 3GPP test frame with channel-information-based beamforming with multiple spatial streams from multiple users (i.e. MU-MIMO). For Category A radios, the test is for each polarization separately and consequently either different or same channel models can be defined for each of the polarization. For Category B, same channel might be used for both polarizations and the test might measure each polarization separately. The transmitted beam direction is measured for each scenario required in this measurement. The measured transmitted direction is extracted from the decoded received signal in the TER. Transmitted direction is defined by properly receiving a data transmission between the O-RU and the target User Equipment while destroying or heavily attenuating the data transmission between the O-RU and the other User Equipment. The UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Channel-Information-based Beamforming conformance test should evaluate the following scenarios for the O-RU to comply and will rely on TER Channel Emulation capabilities as shown in Figure 3.2.5.2-2. A scenario where two spatial streams, or eAxC flows, are generated for two users (one layer each) with M antenna ports or TAB connectors. The O-DU will report to the O-RU via C plane messages an emulated channel estimate 𝐻 ≜ [ℎ1,...,ℎ𝑀,ℎ1,...,ℎ𝑀]∈ℂ2𝑥𝑀. The emulated channel 𝐻 shall model a static channel, with rank not lower

##### 3.2.5.2.10 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – Channel-Information- based Beamforming
A. Test Description and Applicability This Test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can receive a basic 3GPP test frame with channel-information-based beamforming with multiple spatial streams from multiple users (i.e. MU-MIMO). Same description and criteria for selecting the beams to be tested applies as in clause 3.2.3.2.10 but considering uplink direction. B. Test Entrance Criteria
- The O-RU must have at least two TRX chains with conducted antenna ports (or TAB connectors) to be
connected to a signal generator.
- The TER equipment must either include a channel emulator between the O-RU antenna ports and the signal
generator or the signal generator be capable of applying the required channel matrix being emulated between the users and the O-RU.
- Manufacturers’ defined list of number of TRX chains and what antenna ports or TAB connectors are
connected to each TRX chain. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions
- Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation
using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.
- Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna
ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.
- Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the beam under test
and configure the source with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and generate the test signal.
- Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.
b. Procedure a. Build an appropriate test signal described above in the signal source of the TER. b. Inject the test signals through a channel emulator or apply the required signal processing to emulate the channel under test. c. Inject the resulting test signals into the antenna ports (or TAB connectors). d. Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test. Every symbol should be described by either one or two sections (UL-SCH) using Section Type 5 and 6. e. Play the C plane messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 2.4. while also triggering the signal source. f. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the DUT, allow it to create and send the U plane messages to the O-DU and for the O-DU to demodulate, decode and extract the payload. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The test frame received by the TER/O-DU should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data.

##### 3.2.5.2.11 UC- Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – DMRS based
Beamforming A. Test Description and Applicability This Test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY, the condition being O-RUs that support either DMRS-EQ or DMRS-NEQ. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can receive a basic 3GPP test frame with Demodulation Reference Signal-based beamforming (DMRS-BF) with multiple spatial streams from multiple users (i.e. MU-MIMO) using Section Extension 24 (SE24). The UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – DMRS based Beamforming conformance test will rely on TER Beamforming capabilities as shown in Figure 3.2.5.2-3. As defined in introduction of clause 3.2.5.2 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming, each of the UE layer in TS138.141-1) of the Conducted Receiver Characteristic Test (clause 7 ETSI TS 138.141). The power levels shall be at least 30dB above Reference Sensitivity power level as described in clause 3.2.1.1. The test numerology will be preferably 30kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth, if supported. Otherwise, it shall use any available subcarrier space, and the highest bandwidth supported by the O-RU DUT. In addition, the uplink test vector will be generated with UL-SCH in UL slots and allocated to the PRBs 0 to 50 truncated to the carrier bandwidth used for testing. Note that this test vector is defined for a Single Input Single Output (SISO) scenario. However, for this test, the test vector is expanded to evaluate the test scenario where two spatial streams, or eAxC flows, are scheduled at the same resource allocation for two users (with one layer each) and with M antenna ports or TAB connectors. The CUSM-Plane emulator will signal this test vector configuration using SE24 to the O-RU via C-plane messages the scheduling of the two ueIds, using Section Type 5 and Section Extension 10 with beamGroupType=10b or beamGroupType=11b depending on O-RU capabilities. The CUSM-Plane emulator will signal to the O-RU via C- Plane messages the UE symbol allocation as all fourteen symbols per slot. This test case does not test allocated IPN measurement (MEAS_IPN_ALLOC =DISABLED), antenna DMRS SNR (andDmrsSnr=0), transform precoding and self-assembly. The CUSM-Plane emulator shall assign and schedule the ueIds using any supported number of least significant bits of the ueId to indicate the layers within each user. If an O-RU supports ueId persistence, ueId persistence shall not be used “ueId-persistence-enabled=FALSE”. The CUSM-Plane emulator will inform the O-RU of the DMRS configurations for the two streams using Section Extension 24 with entryType 1 and 2. The two DMRS configurations are as follows: UE 0 Layer 0 (DMRS 0) UE 1 Layer 0 (DMRS 1) 1000 1002 Ports

# 4 5
Scrambling ID 0 (𝒏𝟏 ) 𝑰𝑫 DMRS Power Boosting 3 dB UL DMRS Configuration Type 1 DMRS Duration (maxLength) len1 (Single Symbol) DMRS Additional Position 1+1 (2) (dmrs-AdditionalPosition) UL Mapping Type A l0 pos2 DMRS Uplink Transform False Precoding r16 Transform Precoding False Same DMRS signal can be used for all available polarizations. Each polarization might be measured separately. If O-RU supports any other beamforming, these shall not be exercise and tested. If O-RU supports Analog Beamforming (Time Domain Beamforming), the test should not apply any analogue beamforming or time domain beamforming. In this case, M is not the number of antenna ports or TAB connectors but the number of TRX channels supported by the O-RU. The configuration of DMRS and UE data layers follows configuration in SE 24. For example, there are two layers with two different DMRS configurations to measure in this scenario, two users with one layer each. A successful received layer is defined as properly receiving data transmission at the O-DU emulator side from a corresponding layer transmitted by a User Equipment. This received data transmission shall be successfully received when it matches the DMRS configuration being signalled to the O-RU. B. Test Entrance Criteria
- The O-RU shall have at least two TRX chains with conducted antenna ports (or TAB connectors) to be
connected to a signal generator.
- The O-RU shall support enough entry tables of DMRS configuration to process the test vector and
configuration under test.
- The TER equipment shall either include a beamformer between the O-RU antenna ports and the UE signal
generator or the signal generator be capable of emulating different AoA for different UE. This AoA should ensure sufficient conditioning / rank of the channel matrix, ensuring that both UE layers can be properly inferred by O-RU during channel estimation and equalization.
- The TER equipment is responsible for generating the RF signals for each UE layer as described in Section A,
the corresponding matching O-RAN fronthaul traffic with Section ST5, SE10 and SE24 and the configuration of the DUT via M-Plane.
- Manufacturers’ defined list of number of TRX chains and what antenna ports or TAB connectors are
connected to each TRX chain. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions
- Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation
using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1.
- Ensure that the RF connections and cables are calibrated so there is phase coherence between the antenna
ports (or TAB connectors) within acceptable tolerance.
- Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna ports or TAB connectors that belong to the beam under test
and configure the source with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and generate the test signal.
- Let the DUT and TER to warm to the normal operating temperature within specified range.
b. Procedure a. Build an appropriate test signal described in Section A in the signal source of the TER. b. Inject the test signals through a beamformer or apply the required signal processing to the layers under test. c. Get the resulting test signals ready to be injected into the antenna ports (or TAB connectors). d. Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal and the beam under test using Section Type 5 with Section Extension 10 and Section Extension 24. e. Play the C-plane messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 2.4. while also triggering the signal source so the signal is injected into the antenna ports (or TAB connectors). f. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the DUT, allow it to create and send the U- plane messages to the O-DU emulator. g. Allow for the O-DU emulator to capture the U-Plane messages sent by the O-RU and to run the following measurements on the extracted IQ data for each of the users/layers:
- if O-RU implements DMRS-BF-EQ:
- EVM of the received equalized IQ data (no channel estimation and equalization are used in
TER).
- BER or BLER of the received equalized IQ data after layer demapping and decoding in the TER.
> NOTE 1: The measured BER or BLER depends on the algorithms implemented in both the O-RU
DUT and the O-DU TER.
> NOTE 2: The algorithms for demapping and decoding to be used in TER are left for future study.
- if O-RU implements DMRS-BF-NEQ:
- EVM of the received non-equalized IQ data after the channel estimation and equalization
operation in the TER.
> NOTE 3: The measured EVM depends on the algorithms implemented in both the O-RU DUT
and the O-DU TER.
> NOTE 4: The algorithms for channel estimation and equalization to be used in TER are left for
future study.
- BER or BLER of the received non-equalized IQ data after Channel Estimation, equalization,
layer demapping and decoding in the TER.
> NOTE 5: The measured BER or BLER depends on the algorithms implemented in both the O-RU
DUT and the O-DU TER.
> NOTE 6: The algorithms for demapping and decoding to be used in TER are left for future study.
- demodulate, decode and extract the payload.
D. Test Requirement (expected result) The test frame received by the TER/O-DU emulator for each of the users/layers should be the same as the signal described above and should contain all the same PRB assignments and all the original PN23 data (payload before channel encoding in the transmission and after channel decoding in the reception). Report EVM and BER or BLER measured during the test.

##### 3.2.5.2.12 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – DMRS based
Beamforming about Symbol reordering A. Test Description and Applicability This Test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY; the test condition is O-RU that support either DMRS-EQ or DMRS-NEQ supports SE 25 and at least one symbol reordering method as well. The Section Extension 25 applies to Section Type 5 with dataDirection bit = 0 and uses with Section Extension 24 which provides DMRS configuration information. Same description and criteria for selecting the beams to be tested applies as in clause 3.2.5.2.11.A, but considering O-RU supports SE 25 and symbol reordering capability. CUSM-Plane emulator configures symbol reordering method and config-symb-reorder-upSymbId-type based on O-RU capability via M-Plane. Feature O-DU support O-RU support Additional Information Per-window symbol reordering Conditional Conditional Condition for O-DU and O-RU: any When sending of port reduced Mandatory Mandatory reordering method is supported. DRMS data is enabled Per-window symbol reordering When sending of port reduced Optional Optional This is relevant to DMRS-BF. DRMS data is disabled Per-section tx-window Optional Optional This is relevant to DMRS-BF. reassignment U-Plane symbolId interpretation as on-air symbol number for Optional Optional This is relevant to DMRS-BF. symbol reordering U-Plane symbolId interpretation as transmission window number Optional Optional This is relevant to DMRS-BF. for symbol reordering SE 25 symbol reordering pattern Optional Optional The CUSM-Plane emulator will inform the O-RU of the symbol reordering via M-Plane configurations. Depending on O-RU capability of symbol reordering, there are different TER configured choices. The O-RU capability listed as follows: O-RU capability O-RU capability parameters PER-TX-WIN-SYMB-REORDER-WITH-DMRS-SENDING supported-symb-reorder-capability PER-TX-WIN-SYMB-REORDER-WITHOUT-DMRS-SENDING PER-SECTION-TX-WINDOW-REASSIGNMENT The TER Possible configuration sets listed as follows: TER Possible configuration sets TER configuration parameters PER-TX-WIN-SYMB-REORDERG Configuration Set 1 OVER-AIR-SYMBOL-NUMBER port-reduced-dmrs-data-sending-enabled = TRUE PER-TX-WIN-SYMB-REORDERG Configuration Set 2 TRANSMISSION-WINDOW-NUMBER port-reduced-dmrs-data-sending-enabled = TRUE PER-TX-WIN-SYMB-REORDERG Configuration Set 3 TRANSMISSION-WINDOW-NUMBER port-reduced-dmrs-data-sending-enabled = FALSE PER-SECTION-TX-WINDOW-REASSIGNMENT Configuration Set 4 OVER-AIR-SYMBOL-NUMBER port-reduced-dmrs-data-sending-enabled = FALSE The CUSM-Plane emulator will inform the O-RU specific symbol reordering configurations using Section Extension 25 as follows: If TER configured PER-TX-WIN-SYMB-REORDERG (SE25 indicated values corresponding to 14 symbols that are applicable to all layers, U-plane symbolId is interpreted as 'on-air symbol number' or transmission window number based on O-RU capability):

# 0220 11

# T A sym

# T A sym
- p la n e
- p la n e
b o l n u m b e b o l n u m b e sym b o lId w sym b o lId w r r o f th e IQ d h ich u p - sym h ich u p - sym a ta in U - p la n e m e ssa g e b o lId - typ e is O V E R - A IR - S Y b o lId - typ e is T R A N S M IS S IO M N B - O W L- IN N D

# U M

# O W

# B E R
- N U M B E R
OVER-AIR-SYMBOL-NUMBER up-symbolId-type-supported TRANSMISSION-WINDOW-NUMBER max-num-symbol-reordering-pattern-per-slot uint16 supported-section-extensions including SE25 Extension Type 25 for Section Id=0 and 1

# 0 (msb) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 (lsb) # of bytes
ef extType = 0x19 1 Octet N extLen = 0x03 1 N+1 txWinForOnAirSymbol0 (all layers) = 2 txWinForOnAirSymbol1 (all layers) = 3 1 N+2 txWinForOnAirSymbol2 (all layers) = 0 txWinForOnAirSymbol3 (all layers) = 4 1 N+3 … txWinForOnAirSymbol10 (all layers) = 11 txWinForOnAirSymbol11 (all layers) = 1 1 N+7 txWinForOnAirSymbol12 (all layers) = 12 txWinForOnAirSymbol13 (all layers) = 1 N+8 Zero pad for 4-byte boundary 3 N+9 If TER configured PER-SECTION-TX-WINDOW-REASSIGNMENT (SE25 indicated values corresponding to 14 symbols that are applicable separately to each layer, U-plane symbolId is interpreted as 'on-air symbol number'): Extension Type 25 for Section Id=0

# 0 (msb) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 (lsb) # of bytes
ef extType = 0x19 1 Octet N extLen = 0x04 1 N+1 txWinForOnAirSymbol0 (1st layer) = 1 txWinForOnAirSymbol1 (1st layer) = 1 1 N+2 txWinForOnAirSymbol2 (1st layer) = 0 txWinForOnAirSymbol3 (1st layer) = 2 1 N+3 … txWinForOnAirSymbol10 (1st layer) = 5 txWinForOnAirSymbol11 (1st layer) = 0 1 N+7 txWinForOnAirSymbol12 (1st layer) = 6 txWinForOnAirSymbol13 (1st layer) = 6 1 N+8 txWinForOnAirSymbol0 (2nd layer) = 8 txWinForOnAirSymbol1 (2nd layer) = 8 1 N+9 txWinForOnAirSymbol2 (2nd layer) = 7 txWinForOnAirSymbol3 (2nd layer) = 9 1 N+10 … txWinForOnAirSymbol10 (2nd layer) = 12 txWinForOnAirSymbol11 (2nd layer) = 7 1 N+14 txWinForOnAirSymbol12 (2nd layer) = 13 txWinForOnAirSymbol13 (2nd layer) = 13 1 N+15 This test re-uses the test case description from clause 3.2.5.2.11.A. B. Test Entrance Criteria For the test entrance criteria see clause 3.2.5.2.11.B C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions The initial conditions are the same as in see clause 3.2.5.2.11.C.a with the following additions:
- Depending on O-RU capability of symbol reordering, there are different TER configured choices (Table
3.2.5.2.12-2: O-RAN symbol reordering capability).
- If symb-reorder-method is PER-SECTION-TX-WINDOW-REASSIGNMENT, use OVER-AIR-
SYMBOL-NUMBER as up-SymbolId-type according to CUS specification [2].

# 8 9

# 0 3

# 0 3

##### 3.2.5.2.13 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using section extension 24 for DMRS- BF
A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY with the condition the O-RU supports DMRS-BF-EQ or DMRS-BF- NEQ. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can process SE 24 and process UL signal with DMRS beamforming. This test case consists of multiple configurations each with defined preconditions. For the description see clause 3.2.5.2.11.A. B. Test Entrance Criteria For the test entrance criteria see clause 3.2.5.2.11.B C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions The initial conditions are the same as in see clause 3.2.5.2.11.C.a. b. Procedure The procedure consists of executing the basic test case defined in clause 3.2.5.2.11.C.b modified by applying various configurations described below. The clause 3.2.5.2.11.C.b applies with the following modifications:
- TER shall check condition defined for each step.
- TER shall build appropriate signal (following UE and UE’s data layer configuration), and C-plane
message as specified for given configuration. SE 24 shall be within ST 5 and with SE 10.
- TER shall inject signal emulating ideal channel conditions as well as UE and layer spatial separation with
power levels at least 30dB higher than the power levels used to test 3GPP. Steps: a. If the O-RU reports support for SE 24 with entryType = 2 (refer to M-plane leaf-list supported-entry- types), execute basic test case for each configuration specified in configuration set 1. b. If the O-RU reports support for SE 24 with entryType = 3 (refer to M-plane leaf-list supported-entry- types), execute basic test case for each configuration specified in configuration set 2. c. If the O-RU reports support for SE 24 with entryType = 1 and entryType = 2 (refer to M-plane leaf-list supported-entry-types), execute basic test case for each configuration specified in configuration set 3. d. If the O-RU reports support for SE 24 with entryType = 2 and entryType = 3 (refer to M-plane leaf-list supported-entry-types) and multiplexing transform precoding disabled and enabled (refer to M-plane parameter different-transform-precoding-in-user-group-supported = true), execute basic test case for each configuration specified in configuration set 4. e. If the O-RU reports support for persistence of ueId between multiple slots (refer to M-plane feature UEID- PERSISTENCE) and SE 24 with entryType = 2 (refer to M-plane leaf-list supported-entry-types), execute basic test case for the first of parameter values combinations specified in configuration set 1 modified by setting parameter ueIdReset = 1 in the first and every even slot and 0 in other slots in the parameters. f. If the O-RU reports support for ueId persistence over multiple slots (refer to M-plane feature UEID- PERSISTENCE) and SE 24 with entryType = 3 (refer to M-plane leaf-list supported-entry-types), execute basic test case for the first of parameter values combinations specified in configuration set 2 modified by setting parameter ueIdReset = 1 in the first and every even slot and 0 in other slots in the parameters. g. If the O-RU reports support for ueId persistence over multiple slots (refer to M-plane feature UEID- PERSISTENCE) and SE 24 with entryType = 1 and entryType 2 (refer to M-plane leaf-list supported- entry-types), execute basic test case for the configuration specified in configuration set 3 modified by setting parameter ueIdReset = 1 in the first and every even slot and 0 in other slots in the parameters. For slots where ueIdReset = 0 the 2nd entry shall be changed to entryType = 0. h. If the O-RU reports support for ueId persistence over multiple slots (refer to M-plane feature UEID- PERSISTENCE) and SE 24 with entryType = 1 and entryType = 3 (refer to M-plane leaf-list supported- entry-types), execute basic test case for the configuration specified in configuration set 4 modified by setting parameter ueIdReset = 1 in the first and every even slot and 0 in other slots in the parameters. For slots where ueIdReset = 0 the 2nd entry shall be change to entryType = 0. In principle execution of basic test case in each of the above steps may be performed by TER in parallel provided the O-RU’s and TER have capability for multiplexing of different configurations at different, non-overlapping parts of frequency spectrum. Configuration Set 1 (entryType 2 - transform precoding disabled):
- 1 UE with 1 data layer with transform precoding disabled and DMRS configuration matching one provided
in SE 24
- SE 24 with 1 entry with entryType = 2 and the following parameters:
- ueIdReset = 1
- dmrsSymbolMask = separate configurations for each of values reported as supported by O-RU for transform
precoding disabled and other parameters (e.g., dType) fixed to lowest values supported by the O-RU.
- dType = separate configurations for each of values reported as supported by O-RU for transform precoding
disabled and other parameters (e.g., dmrsSymbolMask) fixed to lowest values supported by the O-RU.
- dmrsPortNumber, scrambling, nscid, lambda, cdmWithoutData, firstPrb, lastPrb shall have values as per
CUS-plane requirements. Configuration Set 2 (entryType = 3 - transform precoding enabled):
- 1 UE with 1 data layer with transform precoding enabled and DMRS configuration matching one provided
in SE 24
- SE 24 with 1 entry with entryType = 3 and the following parameters:
- ueIdReset = 1
- dmrsSymbolMask = separate configuration for each of values reported as supported by O-RU for transform
precoding enabled and other parameters (e.g., lowPaprType and hoppingMode) fixed to lowest values supported by the O-RU.
- lowPaprType and hoppingMode = separate configuration for each pair of values reported as supported by
O-RU for transform precoding enabled and with other parameters (e.g, dmrsSymbolMask) fixed to lowest values supported by the O-RU.
- dmrsPortNumber, scrambling, nscid, firstPrb, lastPrb shall have values as per CUS-plane requirements.
Configuration Set 3 (entryType = 1 - reuse of configuration from prior entry for transform precoding disabled):
- 1 UE with 2 data layers with transform precoding disabled and DMRS configuration matching one
provided in SE 24
- SE 24 with 2 entries:
a. 1st entry with entryType = 2 and parameters as in the first of parameter values combinations specified in Configuration Set 1. b. 2nd entry with entryType = 1 and dmrsPortNumber set to the next consecutive value larger than dmrsPortNumber in 1st entry Configuration Set 4 (mix of transform precoding disabled and enabled):
- 2 UEs with 1 data layer each:
a. 1st UE with transform precoding disabled and DMRS configuration matching one provided in 1st entry in SE 24 b. 2nd UE with transform precoding enabled and DMRS configuration matching one provided in 2nd entry in SE 24
- SE 24 with 2 entries:
a. 1st entry with entryType = 2 b. 2nd entry with entryType = 3 c. Parameters for both entries shall be within the O-RU reported capabilities and shall be mutually compatible i.e. the same dmrsSymbolMask, dType (given explicitly and implied), cdmWithoutData (given explicitly and implied), etc. D. Test Requirement (expected result) The expected result is as in clause 3.2.5.2.11.D with a separate check of the result for each of the configurations used in this test case.

##### 3.2.5.2.14 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class RRM Measurements for DMRS-BF
A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY according to Table 10.2-1 section “Measurements” in [2]. The applicability for the different RRM measurements is summarized in table below. DMRS-BF Type Measurements O-RU Applicability MEAS_UE_TAE MEAS_UE_LAYER_POWER MEAS_UE_FREQ_OFFSET MANDATORY DMRS-BF-EQ MEAS_IPN_ALLOC MEAS_IPN_UNALLOC MEAS_ANT_DMRS OPTIONAL MANDATORY if O-RU does not declare feature MEAS_UE_TAE DMRS-BF-NEQ_UNALTERED-TAE MANDATORY if O-RU does not declare feature MEAS_UE_FREQ_OFFSET DMRS-BF-NEQ_UNALTERED-FREQ-OFFSET MANDATORY for all DMRS-BF-NEQ capable DMRS-BF-NEQ MEAS_UE_LAYER_POWER endpoints if any of those supports the RRM measurement. MEAS_IPN_ALLOC MEAS_IPN_UNALLOC OPTIONAL MEAS_ANT_DMRS The RRM measurements M-Plane capability parameters are: rrm-meas-supported, max-ipn-unalloc-reports-supported, max-ipn-unalloc-symbols-supported, max-ipn-alloc-reports-supported, alloc-ipn-per-dmrs-sym-grp-supported, ta3-min-2g and ta3-max-2g. The RRM measurements M-Plane configuration parameter is: rrm-meas-enabled. The purpose of this test is to verify that the O-RU handles the configuration and reporting of RRM measurements according to CUS specification [2]. The purpose is not to verify that the measurements values calculated by O-RU are correct. This test re-uses the test case description from clause 3.2.5.2.11.A. B. Test Entrance Criteria For the test entrance criteria see clause 3.2.5.2.11.B C.1. Test Methodology (UE_TAE, LAYER_POWER, FREQ_OFFSET, ANT_DMRS_SNR) a. Initial Conditions The initial conditions are the same as in see clause 3.2.5.2.11.C.a with the following additions:
- Depending on which O-RU DMRS-BF type that is tested, different RRM measurements will be
supported by the O-RU and enabled by the O-DU. For a description of MEAS_UE_TAE, MEAS_UE_LAYER_POWER, MEAS_UE_FREQ_OFFSET and MEAS_ANT_DMRS see clauses 9.2.2.1, 9.2.2.2, 9.2.2.3 and 9.2.2.6 in CUS Specification [2].
- For a DMRS-BF-EQ O-RU:
o Enable measurements MEAS_UE_TAE, MEAS_UE_LAYER_POWER and MEAS_UE_FREQ_OFFSET via M-Plane. o Enable MEAS_ANT_DMRS if supported by the O-RU via M-Plane. For MEAS_ANT_DMRS SE24 parameter antDmrsSnr needs to be set to 1 for at least one of the user groups.
- For a DMRS-BF-NEQ O-RU:
o Enable MEAS_UE_TAE, MEAS_UE_LAYER_POWER, MEAS_UE_FREQ_OFFSET and MEAS_ANT_DMRS if supported by the O-RU via M-Plane. For MEAS_ANT_DMRS SE24 parameter antDmrsSnr needs to be set to 1 for at least one of the user groups. b. Procedure The procedure consists of executing the basic test case defined in clause 3.2.5.2.11.C.b. The execution of the test case will trigger the O-RU to calculate and report the enabled RRM measurements. D.1. Test Requirement (expected result) The expected result is as in clause 3.2.5.2.11.D with a separate check of:
- The measurements that are enabled are reported to the O-DU.
o For UE_TAE; one value per UE per slot shall be reported. o For UE_LAYER_POWER; one value per DMRS port per slot shall be reported and power values for all layers of a UE shall be sent in same report, as shown in Table 7.4.12‑3 [2]. o For UE_FREQ_OFFSET; one value per UE per slot shall be reported. o For ANT_DMRS_SNR; one value per layer per antenna per slot shall be reported.
- The timing of the measurements reports is according to Figure 4.4.3-7 in the CUS Specification [2] Clause
4.4.3. C.2. Test Methodology (IPN_ALLOC) a. Initial Conditions The initial conditions are the same as in see clause 3.2.5.2.11.C.a with the following additions:
- O-RU support for MEAS_IPN_ALLOC depends on both which DMRS-BF type that is tested and on the O-
RU's capability. For a description of MEAS_IPN_ALLOC see clause 9.2.2.4 in CUS Specification [2].
- For a DMRS-BF-EQ O-RU:
o Enable measurement MEAS_ IPN_ALLOC via M-Plane on one rx endpoint that supports the measurement, either a DMRS-BF-endpoint, or an endpoint dedicated for IPN measurement.
- For a DMRS-BF-NEQ O-RU:
o If MEAS_IPN_ALLOC is supported by at least one rx endpoint, enable measurement MEAS_ IPN_ALLOC via M-Plane on one rx endpoint that supports the measurement, either a DMRS-BF- endpoint, or an endpoint dedicated for IPN measurement.
- Parameter aIpnPerSym in SE24 shall be set according to the capabilities reported by the O-RU. Each value
of aIpnPerSym that is supported by the O-RU shall be tested for at least one user group. b. Procedure The procedure consists of executing the basic test case defined in clause 3.2.5.2.11.C.b. The execution of the test case will trigger the O-RU to calculate the IPN for the allocated PRBs and send the report back to O-RU according to the setting of aIpnPerSym etc. D.2. Test Requirement (expected result) The expected result is as in clause 3.2.5.2.11.D with a separate check of:
- The IPN for allocated PRBs are reported to O-DU.
o IPN_ALLOC; one value per PRB, either for one symbol, or as an average over multiple symbols depending on O-RU capability and setting of SE24 parameter aIpnPerSym.
- Verify that symbolMask in report aligns with the request.
- Verify that the eAxC used for the reports corresponds to the rx endpoint that has MEAS_IPN_ALLOC
enabled.
- The timing of the measurement reports is according to Figure 4.4.3-7 in the CUS Specification [2] Clause
4.4.3. C.3. Test Methodology (IPN_UNALLOC) a. Initial Conditions The initial conditions for measurement of IPN for unallocated PRBs are different compared to other RRM measurements. The trigger for this measurement is the O-DU sending a Section Type 11 to the O-RU.
- O-RU support for MEAS_IPN_UNALLOC depends on both which DMRS-BF type that is tested and on
the O-RU's capability. For a description of MEAS_IPN_UNALLOC see clause 9.2.2.5 in CUS Specification [2].
- For a DMRS-BF-EQ O-RU:
o Enable measurement MEAS_ IPN_UNALLOC via M-Plane on one rx endpoint that supports the measurement.
- For a DMRS-BF-NEQ O-RU:
o If MEAS_IPN_UNALLOC is supported by at least one rx endpoint, enable measurement MEAS_ IPN_ALLOC via M-Plane on one rx endpoint that supports the measurement. b. Procedure The O-DU requests IPN for unallocated PRBs by sending a Section Type 11 to the O-RU with eAxC set to same as for the rx endpoint that is enabled for IPN_UNALLOC measurements. D.3. Test Requirement (expected result) The expected result is as in clause 3.2.5.2.11.D with a separate check of:
- The IPN for unallocated PRBs are reported to O-DU.
o IPN_UNALLOC; one value per PRB, either for one symbol, or as an average over multiple symbols (controlled via parameter symbolMask in ST11).
- The reports shall follow the ST11 request parameter setting when it comes to symbolMask, possible
existence of Section Extensions 6, 12 and/or 20.
- Verify that the eAxC used for the reports corresponds to the same rx endpoint that is used by SE11, which
is an endpoint dedicated for IPN measurement .
- The timing of the measurement reports is according to Figure 4.4.3-7 in the CUS Specification [2] Clause
4.4.3.

##### 3.2.5.2.15 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using section extension ST9 for DMRS-BF
A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY with condition the O-RU supports DMRS-BF-EQ. The purpose of this test is to ensure the O-RU can process M-plane configuration for SINR and send SINR data in ST 9 messages. For further description see clause 3.2.5.2.11.A. B. Test Entrance Criteria The test entrance criteria is as described in clause 3.2.5.2.11.B with addition:
- The O-RU supports DMRS-BF-EQ.
C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions The initial conditions are the same as in clause 3.2.5.2.11.C.a. b. Procedure The procedure consists of executing the basic test case defined in clause 3.2.5.2.11.C.b modified by applying various configurations described below. The clause 3.2.5.2.11.C.b applies with the following modifications:
- TER shall prepare C-plane message of ST 5 with SE 10, SE 24. The configuration in SE 24 shall be
compatible with the capabilities reported by the O-RU under test and consist of 1 data layer.
- TER shall build appropriate signal for 1 UEs of rank 1 with DMRS configuration compatible with
configuration provided to O-RU in SE 24.
- TER shall inject signal emulating ideal channel conditions with power levels at least 30dB higher than the
power levels used to test 3GPP.
- The TER shall configure the O-RU via M-plane for DMRS-BF-EQ reception and configure the selected
SINR resolution (both sinr-per-prb and sinr-slot-bitmask) to the first of SINR resolutions reported as supported by the O-RU in supported-sinr-resolutions, set sinr-compression to the first element in supported-sinr-compression-methods reported by the O-RU and set sinr-reference-level-config to value of sinr-reference-level-max reported by the O-RU. The TER shall enable SINR reporting by setting sinr- reporting-enabled = true. Steps: 1. The TER shall execute the basic test case observing ST 9 messages sent by the O-RU. The TER shall collect per UE data layer a summary of received SINR including minimum, maximum and average. D. Test Requirement (expected result) The expected result is reception of ST 9 message(s) compliant to the SINR reporting resolution configuration and SINR data format configuration set via M-plane. In addition, the test report shall include SINR statistics collected by TER (see step C.b.1).

##### 3.2.5.2.16 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – DMRS based
Beamforming using Frequency offset feedback A. Test Description and Applicability This Test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY; the test condition is O-RU that support either DMRS-EQ or DMRS-NEQ supports SE 26. The SE 26 is used with Section Type 5 to deliver the UE frequency offset from the O-DU to the O-RU and is valid only when dataDirection bit = 0 and when SE 24 is present and SE 24 precedes SE 26. The M-Plane configuration parameter is se26-usage-enabled. TER controls the CUSM-Plane emulator to inform the O-RU specific Frequency offset configurations using Section Extension 26 as follows:

# 0 (msb) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 (lsb) # of bytes
ef extType = 0x1A 1 Octet N extLen = 0x01 1 N+1 reserved 1 N+2 reserved numFoFb[6:0] = 2 1 N+3 1st freqOffsetFb = 0x3E8 2 N+4 2nd freqOffsetFb = 0xFC18 2 N+6 zero padding to 4-byte boundary var var The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can receive the SE 26 information without generating any errors. There is no attempt to validate that the O-RU applies the frequency offset correctly because O-RU is not required to use the frequency offset received in SE26. Specific frequency offset values are required to be included in the SE message, to ensure uniformity of the testing. Specifically, the values 0x3E8 and 0xFC18 shall be used (see This test re-uses the test case description from clause 3.2.5.2.11.A. B. Test Entrance Criteria For the test entrance criteria see clause 3.2.5.2.11.B with the following addition:
- The TER equipment adds control parameters to turn on the SE 26 frequency offset configuration function
(create SE 26 and convey to O-RU). Note the frequency offset values provided in SE 26 are fixed values under test. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions The initial conditions are the same as in see clause 3.2.5.2.11.C.a with the following addition:
- O-RU support SE 26 and M-Plane parameter se26-usage-enabled = TRUE.
b. Procedure The procedure consists of executing the basic test case defined in clause 3.2.5.2.11.C.b modified by enabling the SE 26 frequency offset function:
- DU emulator will create C-Plane message including SE 26, the values in SE 26 are frequency offset values
configured by TER. DU emulator will convey C-Plane message ST 5 with SE 10, SE 24 and SE 26 to O-RU.
- Inject the test signals with additional frequency offset for each UE.
- Other procedure is same with basic test case defined in clause 3.2.5.2.11.C.b. Records output result EVM
and BER or BLER measured during the test. D. Test Requirement (expected result) No fault or error is detected via M-Plane from the O-RU resulting when reception of SE 26. There is no evaluation of the quality of the received signal (EVM, BLER or BER).

##### 3.2.5.2.17 UC Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using section extension 27 for DMRS- BF
A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY, with condition being O-RU reports support for SE 27. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can process SE 27 and process UL signal with DMRS beamforming. For further description see clause 3.2.5.2.11.A. This test uses beamforming weight update mechanism of WDBF or predefined beams of PDBF depending on specification provided by the vendor of the O-RU (see also 2nd bullet in 3.2.5.2.17.B). B. Test Entrance Criteria The test entrance criteria is as described in clause 3.2.5.2.11.B with addition:
- The O-RU supports SE 27.
- The vendor of the O-RU provides set of 2 to 4 beams to be used in the test. The beams in the set are
defined by documenting beamforming weights to be used. Alternatively, the vendor may provide two sets of beamId values which identify predefined beams supported by the O-RU: o a set of N values Bn specified in step 3.2.5.2.17.C.b.2 and o a set of N consecutive values starting with value B specified in step 3.2.5.2.17.C.b.5.
- The vendor of the O-RU provides parameters for positioning 2 UEs of rank 1 to be used for the test. The
positioning is to be specified by angle parameters relative to antenna array (see clause 12.5.2 in CUS-plane [2]). C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions The initial conditions are the same as in see clause 3.2.5.2.11.C.a. b. Procedure The procedure consists of executing the basic test case defined in clause 3.2.5.2.11.C.b modified by applying various configurations described in steps below. The clause 3.2.5.2.11.C.b applies with the following modifications:
- TER shall prepare C-plane message of ST 5 with SE 10, SE 24 and SE 27. The configuration in SE 10,
SE 24 and SE 27 shall be compatible with the capabilities reported by the O-RU under test.
- TER shall build appropriate signal for 2 UEs of rank 1 with DMRS configuration compatible with
configuration provided to O-RU in SE 24.
- TER shall inject signal emulating ideal channel conditions with power levels at least 30dB higher than
the power levels used to test 3GPP. UE positions shall be as specified by the vendor of the O-RU. Steps: 1. The TER shall select value N such that N is greater or equal the number of beams in the set specified by the O-RU vendor and N is number of beams supported by the O-RU to be commanded via SE 27 (refer to M-plane parameter supported-se-27-num-elements in the list supported-se-27-configurations). 2. The TER shall select set of N values Bn where n = 0, 1, …, N-1. The values Bn shall not be consecutive and valid beamId values supported by the O-RU. If the vendor of the O-RU provided beamId values as described in clause 3.2.5.2.17.B then the TER shall use the values Bn provided by the vendor. 3. If the vendor of the O-RU provided beamforming weight values described in clause 3.2.5.2.17.B then the TER shall use ST 1 with SE 1 or SE 11 with reMask=0 as described in clause 7.5.3.5 in CUS-plane [2] to associate beamforming weights of the beams specified by the O-RU vendor with beamId = B0, B(N-1), B1, B(N-2), etc. For the remaining Bn values the TER shall associate beamId=Bn with beamforming weights set to 0. 4. The TER shall execute the basic test case modified to include in ST 5 also SE 27 with beamType = 0, numElements = N, beamId = B0, B1, …, B(N-1). 5. The TER shall select value B such that for n = 0, 1, …, N-1 value B+n is a valid beamId value supported by the O-RU and N is number of beams supported by the O-RU to be commanded via SE 27. If the vendor of the O-RU provided beamId values as described in clause 3.2.5.2.17.B then the TER shall use the value B provided by the vendor. 6. If the vendor of the O-RU provided beamforming weight values described in clause 3.2.5.2.17.B then the TER shall use ST 1 with SE 1 or SE 11 with reMask=0 as described in clause 7.5.3.5 in CUS-plane [2] to associate beamforming weights of the beams specified by the O-RU vendor with beamId = B, B+(N-1), B+1, B+(N-2), etc. For the remaining values in range B to B+N-1 the TER shall associate beamId=B+n with beamforming weights set to 0. 7. The TER shall execute the basic test case modified to include in ST 5 also SE 27 with beamType = 1, numElements = N, beamId = B. D. Test Requirement (expected result) The expected result is as in clause 3.2.5.2.11.D with a separate check of the result for each execution of the basic test case in the steps 4 and 7 of the procedure described in clause 3.2.5.2.17.C.b.

#### 3.2.5.3 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression (CMP)
Validate the correct implementation and interpretation of mandatory and optional IQ data compression formats described in [2]. Also, evaluate the consistency in U-Plane signalling. It applies to the following O-RAN CUS Specification [2]:
- Clause 7.4
- Clause 7.5.2.10
- Clause 8.3.3.15/16/17
- Clause 8.3.2
- Clause 8.3.3
- Table 10.2-1
- Annex A.6
- Annex A.6 Selective RE sending Compression
The objective is primarily to test the protocol, prior to the compression algorithms performance. Signalling: IQ Compression related fields in UC-Plane messages include:
- U-Plane IQ data field
- C-Plane udCompHdr (clause 7.5.2.10 of [2])
- U-Plane udComphdr (clause 8.3.3.13 of [2])
- U-Plane udCompParam (clause 8.3.3.15 of [2])
- Modulation compression parameters used in the Section Extension Type =4
- csf (constellation shift flag)
- modCompScaler (modulation compression scaler value)
Compression: Current specification includes 7 compression modes, including uncompressed mode (fixed point). Tests should cover each one of these modes
- fixed-point
- block floating-point
- block scaling
- mu-law
- modulation compression
- Block Floating Point + selective RE sending
- Modulation Compression + selective RE sending
IQ Bit Width: For fixed-point, block floating point, block scaling and mu-law compression, IQ information can be represented using different bit width (1-16 bits). To optimize test time, tests should be performed on a subset of bit widths For fixed point, block floating point, block scaling, mu-law compressions the subset of bit widths to be tested are
- 9 bits
- 14 bits
For modulation compression bit width 4 is used for the test

##### 3.2.5.3.1 Overview of Compression Test Methodology
A common test methodology and structure will be used across all compression test cases. Each one of the test cases will be defined with specific input parameters and expected output values. To minimize influence of the Radio’s RF performance to the test results, the test methodology will be based on a relative comparison between modulated signal measurements performed on a TDD test frame with uncompressed IQ (fixed 16 bits) and measurements on the same test frame using compressed IQ. The test will verify that the difference between measurements fits within an acceptable range for the test to pass. For downlink test, the modulated signal measurement is performed by a signal analyser on the antenna port of the O- RU. For uplink measurement, the modulated signal measurement is performed with the IQ extracted from the Uplink U- Plane data sent by the O-RU on the O-RAN interface. The following paragraphs in this overview clause outline the details of these common test methodologies. 3.2.5.3.1.1 Test Frame TDD test methodology for compression will combine similar downlink and uplink test patterns used for FDD test. The main difference is that uplink and downlink tests are performed simultaneously for TDD. The test frames used for compression conformance test will be referred in this document as “NR-FR1-TDD-CMP- TST-DL” TDD Downlink Standard Compression Test frame and “NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-UL” TDD Uplink Standard Compression Test frame. They are 5G NR frames based on the description in clause 3.2.1.1.3 For scenario #3 (Conducted TDD Tests for FR1 Radios) with specific attributes described below. The Downlink UC-Plane test stimulus file includes the C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink the NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-DL test frame. The Uplink C-Plane test stimulus file includes the C-Plane messages that require the O-RU to provide the uplink U- Plane messages according to the NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-UL test frame received by the O-RU on its antenna port. Signalling and IQ information will be based on various compression schemes Stimulus File Name Description NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-UNC-16B Static Downlink Uncompressed (CU-plane) NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-UL-UNC-16B Static Uplink Uncompressed (C-plane only) NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-FPF-9B Static Downlink Fixed Point 9 Bits (CU-plane) NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-FPF-14B Static Downlink Fixed Point 14 Bits (CU-plane) NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-UL-FPF-9B Static Uplink Fixed Point 9 Bits (C-plane only) NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-UL-FPF-14B Static Uplink Fixed Point 14 Bits (C-plane only) NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-BFP-9B Static Downlink Block Floating Point 9 Bits (CU-plane) NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-BFP-14B Static Downlink Block Floating Point 14 Bits (CU-plane) NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-UL-BFP-9B Static Uplink Block Floating Point 9 Bits (C-plane only) NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-UL-BFP-14B Static Uplink Block Floating Point 14 Bits (C-plane only) NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-BSC-9B Static Downlink Block Scaling 9 Bits (CU-plane) NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-BSC-14B Static Downlink Block Scaling 14 Bits (CU-plane) NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-UL-BSC-9B Static Uplink Block Scaling 9 Bits (C-plane only) NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-UL-BSC-14B Static Uplink Block Scaling 14 Bits (C-plane only) NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-MLW-9B Static Downlink Mu-Law 9 Bits (CU-plane) NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-MLW-14B Static Downlink Mu-Law 14 Bits (CU-plane) NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-UL-MLW-9B Static Uplink Mu-Law 9 Bits (C-plane only) NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-UL-MLW-14B Static Uplink Mu-Law 14 Bits (C-plane only) NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-MC Static Downlink Modulation Compression NR-FR1-TDD -CMP-TST -ST-DL-UNC-BRE- Static Downlink Uncompressed (CU-plane) with both 16B empty and allocated RE in the same symbol Static Uplink Uncompressed (C-plane only) with both NR-FR1-TDD -CMP-TST -ST-UL-UNC-BRE- empty and allocated RE in the same symbol 16B Static Downlink Block Floating Point + Selective RE 9 NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-BRE-9B Bits (CU-plane) Static Downlink Block Floating Point + Selective 14 Bits NR-FR1- TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-BRE-14B (CU-plane) Static Uplink Block Floating Point 9 Bits + Selective RE NR-FR1- TDD-CMP-TST-ST-UL-BRE-9B (C-plane only) Static Uplink Block Floating Point 14 Bits + Selective NR-FR1- TDD-CMP-TST-ST-UL-BRE-14B RE (C-plane only) NR-FR1- TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-MRE Static Downlink Modcomp + Selective RE Compression Stimulus File Name Description NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-DL-UNC-16B Downlink Uncompressed (CU-plane) NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-UL-UNC-16B Uplink Uncompressed (C-plane) NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-DL-FPF-9B Downlink Fixed Point 9 Bits (CU-plane) NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-DL-FPF-14B Downlink Fixed Point 14 Bits (CU-plane) NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-UL-FPF-9B Uplink Fixed Point 9 Bits (C-plane only) NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-UL-FPF-14B Uplink Fixed Point 14 Bits (C-plane only) NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-DL-BFP-9B Downlink Block Floating Point 9 Bits (CU-plane) NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-DL-BFP-14B Downlink Block Floating Point 14 Bits (CU-plane) NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-UL-BFP-9B Uplink Block Floating Point 9 Bits (C-plane only) NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-UL-BFP-14B Uplink Block Floating Point 14 Bits (C-plane only) NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-DL-BSC-9B Downlink Block Scaling 9 Bits (CU-plane) NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-DL-BSC-14B Downlink Block Scaling 14 Bits (CU-plane) NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-UL-BSC-9B Uplink Block Scaling 9 Bits (C-plane only) NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-UL-BSC-14B Uplink Block Scaling 14 Bits (C-plane only) NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-DL-MLW-9B Downlink Mu-Law 9 Bits (CU-plane) NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-DL-MLW-14B Downlink Mu-Law 14 Bits (CU-plane) NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-UL-MLW-9B Uplink Mu-Law 9 Bits (C-plane only) NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-UL-MLW-14B Uplink Mu-Law 14 Bits (C-plane only) NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-DL-MC Non-Static Downlink Modulation Compression NR-FR1-TDD -CMP-TST -NS-DL-UNC-RE- Static Downlink Uncompressed (CU-plane) with both 16B empty and allocated RE in the same symbol Static Uplink Uncompressed (C-plane only) with both NR-FR1-TDD -CMP-TST -NS-UL-UNC-RE- empty and allocated RE in the same symbol 16B Downlink Block Floating Point + Selective RE 9 Bits NR-FR1-TDD -CMP-TST -NS-DL-BRE-9B (CU-plane) Downlink Block Floating Point + Selective RE 14 Bits NR-FR1-TDD -CMP-TST -NS-DL-BRE-14B (CU-plane) + Selective RE Uplink Block Floating Point + Selective RE 9 Bits NR-FR1-TDD -CMP-TST -NS-UL-BRE-9B (C-plane only) Uplink Block Floating Point + Selective RE 14 Bits NR-FR1-TDD -CMP-TST -NS-UL-BRE-14B (C-plane only) + Selective RE NR-FR1-TDD -CMP-TST -NS-DL-MRE Downlink Modcomp + Selective RE Compression 3.2.5.3.1.2 Test Frame Power To ensure that the compressed IQ exponent value is properly tested, each symbol of the test frame will include 3 sections with different power levels. The Power levels are relative powers to the first group of PRBs transmitted. Any valid 3GPP power level may be used for the first set of PRBs as long as the power levels of the remaining PRBs are also valid. Figure 3.2.5.3-1 below shows PRB power relative to the first set of PRBs.
- 0 dB for the bottom third of total PRBs in the symbol (referred as PDSCH0)
- -10 dB for the middle third of total PRBs in the symbol (referred as PDSCH1)
- -20 dB for the upper third of total PRBs in the symbol (referred as PDSCH2)
The spectrum representation of the frame shown in Figure 3.2.5.3-1 below highlights the various power levels for each 3.2.5.3.1.3 Test Frame User data To validate that user data has not been impacted by compression, the test payload for the 3 sections is each based on an individual PN23 sequence that will be measured and compared by the test apparatus. 3.2.5.3.1.4 Test Frame Modulation Scheme To maximise coverage on the compressed IQ mantissa value, the test frame will use the highest possible modulation, limited to 256 QAM modulation for downlink. An example measurement is show in Table 3.2.5-8. The data content is a PN23 sequence and the test frame assuming a channel bandwidth of 100 MHz (=273 PRB) is divided into three sections of 91 PRB each. Note that the first section below contains the Coreset in the first 3 PRB according to the 3GPP FRC model. 3.2.5.3.1.5 Summary of Required Measurements for Compression Tests measurements types will be required for downlink tests and 4 measurements will be required for uplink tests.
- Power level: Using the test frames (NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-DL and NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-UL)
sent twice with both compressed and uncompressed IQ data, power level measurements are performed to validate compression algorithms influence on Exponent (udCompParam). The Power level measurements are called: For downlink o CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-DL-PDSCH0 in dBm o CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-DL-PDSCH0 in dBm o CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-DL-PDSCH1 in dBm o CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-DL-PDSCH1 in dBm o CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-DL-PDSCH2 in dBm o CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-DL-PDSCH2 in dBm For Uplink o CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-UL-PUSCH0 in dBm o CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-UL-PUSCH0 in dBm o CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-UL-PUSCH1 in dBm o CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-UL-PUSCH1 in dBm o CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-UL-PUSCH2 in dBm o CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-UL-PUSCH2 in dBm For the test to pass, the difference between compressed and uncompressed measurements should be within an acceptable range, called o ACC_PWR_PDSCH0 = ± 1dB o ACC_PWR_PDSCH1 = ± 1dB o ACC_PWR_PDSCH2 = ± 1dB o
- EVM: Using a common test frame sent twice with both compressed and uncompressed IQ data, EVM
measurements comparisons between uncompressed IQ and compressed IQ will help validate acceptable compression influence on signal quality. For downlink these 6 EVM measurements required: o CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-DL-PDSCH0 in % o CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-DL-PDSCH0 in % o CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-DL-PDSCH1 in % o CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-DL-PDSCH1 in % o CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-DL-PDSCH2 in % o CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-DL-PDSCH2 in % For uplink these 6 EVM measurements required: o CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-UL-PUSCH0 in % o CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-UL-PUSCH0 in % o CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-UL-PUSCH1 in % o CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-UL-PUSCH1 in % o CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-UL-PUSCH2 in % o CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-UL-PUSCH2 in % For the test to pass, the difference between the compressed and uncompressed measurements for the same PDSCH signal must be within the following range: o ACC_EVM_PDSCH0 ≤ 4 percentage points o ACC_EVM_PDSCH1 ≤ 4 percentage points o ACC_EVM_PDSCH2 ≤ 4 percentage points An example measurement showing both power and EVM is shown below in Figure 3.2.5.3-2.
- Payload Data Integrity: comparing user data between the O-RAN test frame and the RF measurement to
validate that compression does not influence user data. The User data measurements are called: For Downlink o CMP-Uncompressed-BER-DL-PDSCH0 o CMP-Uncompressed-BER-DL-PDSCH1 o CMP-Uncompressed-BER-DL-PDSCH2 o CMP-Compressed-BER-DL-PDSCH0 o CMP-Compressed-BER-DL-PDSCH1 o CMP-Compressed-BER-DL-PDSCH2 For Uplink o CMP-Uncompressed-BER-UL-PUSCH0 o CMP-Uncompressed-BER-UL-PUSCH1 o CMP-Uncompressed-BER-UL-PUSCH2 o CMP-Compressed-BER-UL-PUSCH0 o CMP-Compressed-BER-UL-PUSCH1 o CMP-Compressed-BER-UL-PUSCH2 For the data integrity test to pass, the comparison between stimulus payload and the measured payload should be free of any errors (i.e. BER=0).
- Presence/Absence of U-Plane Header measurements (uplink only): to validate that in the U-Plane PRB
header, the udCompHeader, “reserved” and udCompParam fields are correctly absent for Static compression mode or present for other compression modes. Downlink Power Level EVM Data Integrity Uncompressed IQ Perform power Perform EVM N/A (fixed 16 bits) measurements on the measurements on the groups of PRBs to 3 groups of PRBs to create 3 power create 3 EVM reference points reference points Fixed point Perform the test Perform the test If power level and (< 16 bits fixed IQ) using same test using same test EVM OK, then verify waveforms in waveforms in user data integrity compressed mode compressed mode with BER and check if 3 power and check if 3 EVM measurement on measurements are measurements are payload within acceptable within acceptable range range Block floating point Perform the test Perform the test If power level and using same test using same test EVM OK, then verify waveforms in waveforms in user data integrity compressed mode compressed mode with BER and check if 3 power and check if 3 EVM measurement on measurements are measurements are payload within acceptable within acceptable range range Block scaling Same as above Same as above Same as above Mu Law Same as above Same as above Same as above Block floating point + Same as above Same as above Same as above Selective RE Block scaling + Same as above Same as above Same as above Selective RE 3.2.5.3.1.6 Compression Tests reference table As the same methodology is used across the different compression modes, the conformance test can be viewed as series of instances of the same test structure with different parameter values as shown below in Table 3.2.5-10. Test name DL/UL Compression IQ Width TDD UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario - Static Format (SF) bits DL Fixed point TDD UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Static 14 bits Format (SF) Fixed-Point (FPF) 9 bits UL Fixed Point bits bits DL Block Floating point TDD UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Static 14 bits Format (SF) Block Floating Point (BFP) 9 bits UL Block Floating point bits bits DL Block Scaling TDD UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Static 14 bits Format (SF) Block Scaling (BSC) 9 bits UL Block Scaling bits bits DL Mu-Law TDD UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Static 14 bits Format (SF) Mu-Law (MLW) 9 bits UL Mu-Law bits Block Floating point + 9 bits TDD UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Static DL Selective RE 14 bits (SF) Block Floating Point + Selective RE Block Floating point + 9 bits (BRE) UL Selective RE 14 bits TDD UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Static Modulation (SF) mod-compr Format + Selective RE DL Compression + 4-bits (MRE) Selective RE UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario - Non-Static Format Test (NS) bits DL Fixed point TDD UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Non- 14 bits Static (NS) Fixed-Point (FPF) 9 bits UL Fixed Point bits bits DL Block Floating point TDD UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Non- 14 bits Static (NS) Block Floating Point (BFP) 9 bits UL Block Floating point bits bits DL Block Scaling TDD UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Non- 14 bits Static (NS) Block Scaling (BSC) 9 bits UL Block Scaling bits bits DL Mu-Law TDD UC-Plane O-DU CMP Scenario Non- 14 bits Static (NS) Mu-Law (MLW) 9 bits UL Mu-Law bits TDD UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Non- Modulation DL 4-bits Static (NS) Modulation Compressed Format Compression Block Floating point + 9 bits TDD UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Non- DL Selective RE 14 bits Static (NS) Block Floating Point + Selective Block Floating point + 9 bits RE (BRE) UL Selective RE 14 bits TDD UC-Plane O-RU CMP Scenario Non- Modulation Static (NS) mod-compr Format + Selective DL Compression + 4-bits RE (MRE) Selective RE 3.2.5.3.1.7 Results Analysis In general, for each specific Compression Test in this conformance test document, the test will pass if the following conditions are met:
- Power measurement differences between Uncompressed and Compressed are within acceptable range
- EVM measurement difference between Uncompressed and Compressed are within acceptable range
- Data integrity measurements show no data corruption
- Uplink U-Plane Header measurements exclude fields for static compression
These test criteria and expected results are summarized below in Table 3.2.5-11. Test name Test Attributes Acceptance Threshold Criteria DL Compression IQ Power difference EVM difference BER UL Width ACC_EVM_PDSCH0 ACC_PWR_PDSCH0 = = TDD UC- ACC_PWR_PDSCH1 = ACC_EVM_PDSCH1 bits BER = 0 Plane O-RU DL Fixed point ACC_PWR_PDSCH2 = = CMP +/- 1 dB ACC_EVM_PDSCH2 Scenario ≤ 4 percentage points Fixed-Point 14 bits BER = 0 Format (FPF) 9 bits BER = 0 UL Fixed Point bits BER = 0 TDD UC- Same as above Same as above bits BER = 0 Plane O-RU DL Block Floating CMP point 14 bits BER = 0 Scenario Block Block Floating 9 bits BER = 0 Floating UL point bits BER = 0 Point Test name Test Attributes Acceptance Threshold Criteria DL Compression IQ Power difference EVM difference BER UL Width Compression (BFP) TDD UC- bits BER = 0 Plane O-RU DL Block Scaling CMP 14 bits BER = 0 Scenario Block 9 bits BER = 0 Scaling UL Block Scaling Compression 4 bits BER = 0 (BSC) TDD UC- DL Mu-Law 9 bits BER = 0 Plane O-DU CMP 14 bits BER = 0 Scenario UL Mu-Law 9 bits BER = 0 Mu-Law Compression 14 bits BER = 0 (MLW) UC-Plane O- DL Modulation 4-bits BER = 0 RU CMP Compression Scenario Modulation Compressed Format TDD UC- Block Floating 9 bits BER =0 Plane O-RU DL point + Same as above Same as above CMP Selective RE 14 bits BER =0 Scenario Block 9 bits BER =0 Floating Block Floating Point UL point + Same as above Same as above Compression Selective RE 14 bits BER =0 + Selective RE (BRE) TDD UC- Plane O-RU CMP Modulation Scenario Compression DL 4-bits Same as above Same as above BER =0 Modulation + Selective Compressed RE + Selective RE Format

##### 3.2.5.3.2 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) Fixed-Point
(FP) A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONALMANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format. The purpose of this test is to:
- Validate correct encoding of IQ data under the following conditions.
o RU Static compression configurations o Fixed point IQ data format o Selection of 2 supported bit width: 9 bits, 14 bits o Uplink / downlink
- Validate that in the U-Plane PRB header, the udCompHeader, “reserved” and udCompParam fields are
not present B. Test Entrance Criteria The test uses the setup and methodology described in clause 3.2.5.3.1. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions
- The O-RU is started
- Fronthaul Ethernet interface configured for communication between TER and the DUT.
- O-RU synchronized with TER using S-Plane
- Communication established between TER and the DUT such that it is possible to exchange U-Plane and
C-Plane messages
- signal analyser connected to DUT’s antenna port and setup according to DUT RF output configuration
- signal source connected to DUT’s antenna port and setup according to DUT RF input configuration
b. Procedure For each supported bit width (9 bits, 14 bits), the following tests need to be performed: 1. Launch Uncompressed Test
- Via the M-Plane or another suitable mechanism, put the O-RU into a static configuration with the
downlink and uplink configured as follows: no compression, (16 bits)
- Arm signal analysers and signal source
- Arm signal analyser to capture the next Frame
- Arm signal source to generate the Frame NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-UL
- Arm the CUSM emulator to send the TDD O-RAN test frame, including
- Downlink: CU-plane of “uncompressed” NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-UNC-16B test stimulus
file to the DUT
- Uplink: C-plane of “uncompressed” NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-UL-UNC-16B test stimulus file
to the DUT
- ARM CUSM-E to capture the Uplink U-Plane Data from the DUT
- Launch the test until:
o RF signal analyser has captured the downlink frame o CUSM-E has captured the uplink U-plane data 2. Uncompressed Downlink Measurements
- With the RF signal analyser, perform the 3 power measurements
o CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-DL-PDSCH0 in dBm o CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-DL-PDSCH1 in dBm o CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-DL PDSCH2 in dBm
- With the RF signal analyser, perform the 3 EVM measurements
o CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-DL-PDSCH0 in % o CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-DL-PDSCH1 in % o CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-DL-PDSCH2 in %
- With the RF signal analyser, check Data integrity measurements
o CMP-Uncompressed-BER-DL-PDSCH0 o CMP-Uncompressed-BER-DL-PDSCH1 o CMP-Uncompressed-BER-DL-PDSCH2 3. Uncompressed Uplink Measurements
- Extract IQ information from Capture U-Plane trace of the CUSM-E
- Using the signal analyser software, perform the 3 power measurements
o CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-UL-PDSCH0 in dBm o CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-UL-PDSCH1 in dBm o CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-UL-PDSCH2 in dB
- Using the signal analyser software, perform the 3 EVM measurements
o CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-UL-PDSCH0 in % o CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-UL-PDSCH1 in % o CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-UL-PDSCH2 in %
- Using the signal analyser software, perform Data integrity measurements
o CMP-Uncompressed-BER-UL-PDSCH0 o CMP-Uncompressed-BER-UL-PDSCH1 o CMP-Uncompressed-BER-UL-PDSCH2 4. Launch “compressed” Test
- Via the M-Plane or another suitable mechanism, put the O-RU into a static configuration with the
downlink and uplink configured as follows: Fixed point, 9-bit (then 14 bits)
- Arm signal analysers and signal sources
- Arm signal analyser to capture the next Frame
- Arm signal source to generate the Frame NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-UL
- Arm the CUSM emulator to send the TDD O-RAN test frame, including
- Downlink: CU-plane of the “Compressed” NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-FPF-9B (then 14B)
test stimulus file to the DUT
- Uplink: CU-plane of the “Compressed” NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-UL-FPF-9B (then 14B) test
stimulus file to the DUT
- ARM CUSM-E to capture the Uplink U-Plane Data from the DUT
- Launch the test until:
o RF signal analyser has captured the downlink frame o CUSM-E has captured the uplink U-plane data 5. Compressed Downlink Measurements
- With the signal analyser, perform the 3 power measurements
o CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-DL-PDSCH0 in dBm o CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-DL-PDSCH1 in dBm o CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-DL-PDSCH2 in dBm
- With the signal analyser, perform the 3 EVM measurements
o CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-DL-PDSCH0 in % o CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-DL-PDSCH1 in % o CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-DL-PDSCH2 in %
- With the signal analyser, check Data integrity measurements
o CMP-Compressed-BER-DL-PDSCH0 o CMP-Compressed-BER-DL-PDSCH1 o CMP-Compressed-BER-DL-PDSCH2 6. Validate Downlink conformance conditions
- Power measurements within acceptable range
- Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-DL-PDSCH0 and CMP-Compressed-
Measured-Power-DL-PDSCH0 is within ACC_PWR_PDSCH0 range
- Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-DL-PDSCH1 and CMP-Compressed-
Measured-Power-DL-PDSCH1 is within ACC_PWR_PDSCH1 range
- Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-DL-PDSCH2 and CMP-Compressed-
Measured-Power-DL-PDSCH2 is within ACC_PWR_PDSCH2 range
- EVM measurements within acceptable range
- Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-DL-PDSCH0 and CMP-Compressed-
Measured-EVM-DL-PDSCH0 is less than ACC_EVM_PDSCH0
- Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-DL-PDSCH1 and CMP-Compressed-
Measured-EVM-DL-PDSCH1 is less than ACC_EVM_PDSCH1
- Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-DL-PDSCH2 and CMP-Compressed-
Measured-EVM-DL-PDSCH2 is less than ACC_EVM_PDSCH2
- BER Measurements show no errors
o CMP-Uncompressed-BER-DL-PDSCH0 =0 o CMP-Uncompressed-BER-DL-PDSCH1 =0 o CMP-Uncompressed-BER-DL-PDSCH2 =0 o CMP-Compressed-BER-DL-PDSCH0 =0 o CMP-Compressed-BER-DL-PDSCH1 =0 o CMP-Compressed-BER-DL-PDSCH2 =0 7. Compressed Uplink Measurements
- Extract IQ information from Capture U-Plane trace
- Using the signal analyser software, perform the 3 power measurements
o CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-UL-PDSCH0 in dBm o CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-UL-PDSCH1 in dBm o CMP-Compressed-Measured-Power-UL-PDSCH2 in dBm
- Using the signal analyser software, perform the 3 EVM measurements
o CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-UL-PDSCH0 in % o CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-UL-PDSCH1 in % o CMP-Compressed-Measured-EVM-UL-PDSCH2 in %
- Using the signal analyser software, check Data integrity measurements
o CMP-Compressed-BER-UL-PDSCH0 o CMP-Compressed-BER-UL-PDSCH1 o CMP-Compressed-BER-UL-PDSCH2 8. Validate Uplink conformance conditions
- Validate correct U-Plane PRB header structure
- U-Plane udComphdr (clause 8.3.3.13 of [2])
- U-Plane udCompParam (clause 8.3.3.15 of [2])
- Validate that the power measurements within acceptable range
o Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-UL-PDSCH0 and CMP- Compressed-Measured-Power-UL-PDSCH0 is within ACC_PWR_PDSCH0 range o Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-UL-PDSCH1 and CMP- Compressed-Measured-Power-UL_PDSCH1 is within ACC_PWR_PDSCH1 range o Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-Power-UL-PDSCH2 and CMP- Compressed-Measured-Power-UL PDSCH2 is within ACC_PWR_PDSCH2 range
- Validate EVM measurements within acceptable range
o Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-UL-PDSCH0 and CMP- Compressed-Measured-EVM-UL-PDSCH0 is less than ACC_EVM_PDSCH0 o Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-UL-PDSCH1 and CMP- Compressed-Measured-EVM-UL-PDSCH1 is less than ACC_EVM_PDSCH1 o Difference between CMP-Uncompressed-Measured-EVM-UL-PDSCH2 and CMP- Compressed-Measured-EVM-UL-PDSCH2 is less than ACC_EVM_PDSCH2
- Validate that the BER Measurements show no errors
o CMP-Uncompressed-BER-UL-PDSCH0 = 0 o CMP-Uncompressed-BER-UL-PDSCH1 = 0 o CMP-Uncompressed-BER-UL-PDSCH2 = 0 o CMP-Compressed-BER-UL-PDSCH0 = 0 o CMP-Compressed-BER-UL-PDSCH1 = 0 o CMP-Compressed-BER-UL-PDSCH2 = 0 D. Test Requirement (expected result) All validation steps above are within expected ranges or correctly match the expected outcome.

##### 3.2.5.3.3 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) Block Floating
Point (BFP) A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONALMANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format. This static format test scenario for Block Floating Point Format will verify DL and UL correct encoding of IQ information for 2 supported bit widths: 9 bits or 14 bits. B. Test Entrance Criteria Same as in clause 3.2.5.3.2 for Block floating point formats. C. Test Methodology Same as with Static Block Floating Point test patterns
- NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-BFP-9B
- NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-BFP-14B
- NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-UL-BFP-9B
- NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-UL-BFP-14B
Via the M-Plane or another suitable mechanism, put the O-RU into a static configuration with the downlink and uplink configured as follows: Block floating Point, 9-bit (then 14 bits) D. Test Requirement (expected result) Same as in clause 3.2.5.3.2.

##### 3.2.5.3.4 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) Block Scaling
A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format. This static format test scenario for Block Scaling Format will verify DL and UL correct encoding of IQ information for 2 supported bit widths: 9 bits or 14 bits. B. Test Entrance Criteria Same as in clause 3.2.5.3.2 for Block Scaling point formats. C. Test Methodology Same as in clause 3.2.5.3.2 with Static Block Floating Point test patterns
- NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-BSC-9B
- NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-BSC-14B
- NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-UL-BSC-9B
- NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-UL-BSC-14B
Via the M-Plane or another suitable mechanism, put the O-RU into a static configuration with the downlink and uplink configured as follows: Block Scaling, 9-bit (then 14 bits) D. Test Requirement (expected result) Same as in clause 3.2.5.3.2.

##### 3.2.5.3.5 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) Mu-Law (MLW)
A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONALMANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format. This static format test scenario for Mu-Law Format will verify DL and UL correct encoding of IQ information for 2 supported bit widths: 9 bits or 14 bits. B. Test Entrance Criteria Same as in clause 3.2.5.3.2 for Mu-Law formats. C. Test Methodology Same as in clause 3.2.5.3.2 with Static Mu-Law test patterns
- NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-MLW-9B
- NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-MLW-14B
- NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-UL-MLW-9B
- NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-UL-MLW-14B
Via the M-Plane or another suitable mechanism, put the O-RU into a static configuration with the downlink and uplink configured as follows: Mu-Law, 9-bit (then 14 bits) D. Test Requirement (expected result) Same as in clause 3.2.5.3.2.

##### 3.2.5.3.6 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) Modulation- Compression
A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONALMANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format. This modulation compression format scenario is a static format scenario, based on clause 3.2.5.3.2 with some important differences
- The purpose is to validate Radio Unit’s correct interpretation of the Modulation compression parameters
used in the Section Extension Type =4 and/or Section Extension Type 5, based on the radio support. If the O-RU only supports section extension 4 on a given endpoint, then: o Section extension 4 shall be used for all symbols containing PDSCH REs and for symbols containing both PDSCH and DMRS REs. If the O-RU only supports section extension 5 on a given endpoint, then: o Section extension 5 shall be used for all symbols containing PDSCH REs and for symbols containing both PDSCH and DMRS REs. If the radio supports 4 and 5 on a given endpoint, then o Section extension 4 shall be used for symbols containing only PDSCH REs . o Section extensions 5 shall be used for symbols containing DMRS + PDSCH REs.
- The test will only verify DL correct encoding of IQ information, as the Modulation Compression model is
not applicable for uplink
- As the Modulation Compression model does not require IQ bit width to be setup, there is no need to run
multiple compression tests for various IQ bit width.
- The CUSM_E must generate:
Stimulus File Name Description NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-UNC-16B Static Downlink Uncompressed (CU-plane) NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-MC Static Downlink Modulation Compression B. Test Entrance Criteria Same as in clause 3.2.5.3.2. C. Test Methodology Same as in clause 3.2.5.3.2 with Static Modulation Compression test patterns
- NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-MC
Via the M-Plane or another suitable mechanism, put the O-RU into a static configuration with the downlink configured as follow: Modulation Compression
- Validation only of the downlink measurements
D. Test Requirement (expected result) All validation steps above are within expected ranges or correctly match the expected outcome.

##### 3.2.5.3.7 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static (NS) Fixed-Point (FPF)
A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONALMANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format. This Fixed-Point Format scenario is a non-static format scenario that will verify DL and UL correct encoding of IQ information for 2 supported bit widths: 9 bits or 14 bits. B. Test Entrance Criteria Same as in clause 3.2.5.3.2. C. Test Methodology Same as in clause 3.2.5.3.2 and clause 3.2.3.3.2 with Non-Static Uncompressed test patterns.
- NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-DL-UNC-16B
- NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-UL-UNC-16B
Same as in clause 3.2.3.3.2 with Non-Static Fixed-Point (FPF) test patterns.
- NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-DL-FPF-9B
- NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-DL-FPF-14B
- NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-UL-FPF-9B
- NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-UL-FPF-14B
Via the M-Plane or another suitable mechanism, put the O-RU into a non-static configuration with the downlink and uplink configured as follows: Fixed Point, 9-bit (then 14 bits) D. Test Requirement (expected result) All validation steps above are within expected ranges or correctly match the expected outcome.

##### 3.2.5.3.8 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static (NS) Block Floating
Point A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONALMANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format This Block Floating-Point Format scenario is a non-static format scenario that will verify DL and UL correct encoding of IQ information for 2 supported bit widths: 9 bits or 14 bits. B. Test Entrance Criteria Same as in clause 3.2.5.3.7 for Block floating point formats. C. Test Methodology Same as in clause 3.2.5.3.7 with Non-Static Uncompressed test patterns.
- NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-DL-UNC-16B
- NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-UL-UNC-16B
Same as in clause 3.2.5.3.7 with Non-Static Fixed-Point (FPF) test patterns.
- NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-DL-BFP-9B
- NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-DL-BFP-14B
- NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-UL-BFP-9B
- NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-UL-BFP-14B
Via the M-Plane or another suitable mechanism, put the O-RU into a non-static configuration with the downlink and uplink configured as follows: Block Floating Point, 9-bit (then 14 bits) D. Test Requirement (expected result) Same as in clause 3.2.5.3.7.

##### 3.2.5.3.9 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static (NS) Block Scaling
(BSC) A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONALMANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format. This Block Scaling Format scenario is a dynamic-format scenario that will verify DL and UL correct encoding of IQ information for 2 supported bit widths: 9 bits or 14 bits. B. Test Entrance Criteria Same as in clause 3.2.5.3.7 for Block Scaling formats. C. Test Methodology Same as in clause 3.2.5.3.7 with Non-Static Uncompressed test patterns.
- NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-DL-UNC-16B
- NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-UL-UNC-16B
Same as in clause 3.2.5.3.7 with Non-Static Fixed-Point (FPF) test patterns.
- NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-DL-BSC-9B
- NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-DL-BSC-14B
- NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-UL-BSC-9B
- NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-UL-BSC-14B
Via the M-Plane or another suitable mechanism, put the O-RU into a non-static configuration with the downlink and uplink configured as follows: Block Scaling, 9-bit (then 14 bits) D. Test Requirement (expected result) Same as in clause 3.2.5.3.7.

##### 3.2.5.3.10 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static (NS) Mu-Law (MLW)
A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONALMANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format. This Mu-Law Format scenario is a dynamic-format scenario that will verify DL and UL correct encoding of IQ information for 2 supported bit widths: 9 bits or 14 bits. B. Test Entrance Criteria Same as in clause 3.2.5.3.7 for Mu-Law formats. C. Test Methodology Same as in clause 3.2.5.3.7 with Non-Static Uncompressed test patterns.
- NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-DL-UNC-16B
- NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-UL-UNC-16B
Same as in clause 3.2.5.3.7 with Non-Static Fixed-Point (FPF) test patterns.
- NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-DL-MLW-9B
- NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-DL-MLW-14B
- NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-UL-MLW-9B
- NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-UL-MLW-14B
Via the M-Plane or another suitable mechanism, put the O-RU into a non-static configuration with the downlink and uplink configured as follows: Mu Law, 9-bit (then 14 bits) D. Test Requirement (expected result) Same as in clause 3.2.5.3.7.

##### 3.2.5.3.11 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static Format (NS)
Modulation-Compressed Format A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONALMANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format. This modulation compression format scenario is a non-static format scenario, based on 3.2.4.3.2 with some important differences
- The purpose is to validate Radio Unit’s correct interpretation of the Modulation compression parameters
used in the Section Extension Type =4 and/or Section Extension Type 5, based on the radio support. If the O-RU only supports section extension 4 on a given endpoint, then: o Section extension 4 shall be used for all symbols containing PDSCH REs and for symbols containing both PDSCH and DMRS REs. If the O-RU only supports section extension 5 on a given endpoint, then: o Section extension 5 shall be used for all symbols containing PDSCH REs and for symbols containing both PDSCH and DMRS REs. If the radio supports 4 and 5 on a given endpoint, then o Section extension 4 shall be used for symbols containing only PDSCH REs . o Section extensions 5 shall be used for symbols containing DMRS + PDSCH REs.
- The test will only verify DL correct encoding of IQ information, as the Modulation Compression model is
not applicable for uplink
- As the Modulation Compression model does not require IQ bit width to be setup, there is no need to run
multiple compression tests for various IQ bit width.
- The CUSM_E must generate:
Stimulus File Name Description NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-DL-UNC-16B Non-Static Downlink Uncompressed (CU-plane) NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-DL-MC Non-Static Downlink Modulation Compression B. Test Entrance Criteria Same as in clause 3.2.5.3.7. C. Test Methodology Same as in clause 3.2.5.3.7 with Static Modulation Compression test patterns
- NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-NS-DL-MC
Via the M-Plane or another suitable mechanism, put the O-RU into a static configuration with the downlink configured as follow: Modulation Compression
- Validation only of the downlink measurements
D. Test Requirement (expected result) All validation steps above are within expected ranges or correctly match the expected outcome.

##### 3.2.5.3.12 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) Block Floating
Point + Selective RE Format A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format The Block Floating-Point+ Selective RE Format scenario is a static format scenario that will verify DL and UL correct encoding of IQ information for 2 supported bit widths: 9 bits or 14 bits. For this test scenario, the compression test methodology will be based on the description in clause 3.2.5.3.1 However, on top of the test frame requirements from clause 3.2.5.3.1, this test scenario also requires a test frame that MUST include PRBs with a combination of allocated and empty Resource Elements in the same symbol, to verify if the O-RU properly interprets the sReMask value in the udCompParam field (user data compression parameter). The measurements must be performed on the symbols that include a combination of empty and allocated resource elements. The recommended test frame is based on Type 2 DMRS with 2 DMRS CDM groups without data. The resource mapping model for the Resource Blocks is shown on the diagram below, where both symbols #2 and #11 include a combination of empty and allocated Resources. The uncompressed and compressed test frames are listed in Table 3.2.5-14. Stimulus File Name Description Static Downlink Uncompressed (CU-plane) with NR-FR1-TDD -CMP-TST -ST-DL-UNC-RE-16B both empty and allocated RE in the same symbol Static Uplink Uncompressed (C-plane only) with NR-FR1-TDD -CMP-TST -ST-UL-UNC-RE-16B both empty and allocated RE in the same symbol Static Downlink Block Floating Point + Selective NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-BRE-9B RE 9 Bits (CU-plane) Static Downlink Block Floating Point + Selective NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-BRE-14B

# 14 Bits (CU-plane)
Static Uplink Block Floating Point 9 Bits + NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-UL-BRE-9B Selective RE (C-plane only) Static Uplink Block Floating Point 14 Bits + NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-UL-BRE-14B Selective RE (C-plane only) B. Test Entrance Criteria Same as in clause 3.2.3.3.2 for static Block floating point + Selective RE formats. C. Test Methodology Same as in clause 3.2.3.3.2 with Static Block Floating Point + Selective RE test patterns. The uncompressed test frames used for this test are
- NR-FR1-TDD -CMP-TST -ST-DL-UNC-RE-16B
- NR-FR1-TDD -CMP-TST -ST-UL-UNC-RE-16B
The compressed test frames used for this test are
- NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-BRE-9B
- NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-DL-BRE-14B
- NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-UL-BRE-9B
- NR-FR1-TDD-CMP-TST-ST-UL-BRE-14B
D. Test Requirement (expected result) Same as in clause 3.2.3.3.2.

##### 3.2.5.3.13 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Static Format (SF) mod-compr +
Selective RE Format A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONALMANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format. This modulation compression + Selective format scenario is a static format scenario, based on 3.2.3.3.2 with some important differences
- The purpose is to validate Radio Unit’s correct interpretation of the Modulation compression parameters
used in the Section Extension Type =4
- The test will only verify Downlink correct encoding of IQ information, as the Modulation Compression
model is not applicable for uplink
- As the Modulation Compression model does not require IQ bit width to be setup, there is no need to run
multiple compression tests for various IQ bit widths. On top of the test frame requirements described above, this test scenario requires a test frame that MUST include PRBs with a combination of allocated and empty Resource Elements in the same symbol, to verify if the O-RU properly interprets the sReMask value in the udCompParam field (user data compression parameter). The measurements must be performed on the symbols that include a combination of empty and allocated resource elements. The recommended test frame is based on Type 2 DMRS with 2 DMRS CDM groups without data. The resource mapping model for the Resource Blocks is shown on the diagram below, where both symbols #2 and #11 include a combination of empty and allocated Resources. The uncompressed and compressed test frames are listed in the table below Stimulus File Name Description Static Downlink Uncompressed (CU-plane) with NR-FR1-TDD -CMP-TST -ST-DL-UNC-RE-16B both empty and allocated RE in the same symbol Static Downlink Modulation Compression + TDD-NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-MRE Selective RE B. Test Entrance Criteria Same as 3.2.5.3.2. C. Test Methodology Same as in clause 3.2.3.3.2 with Static Modulation Compression test patterns The uncompressed test frames used for this test are
- TDD-NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-UNC-RE-16B
The compressed test frames used for this test are
- TDD-NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-ST-DL-MRE
Via the M-Plane or another suitable mechanism, put the O-RU into a static configuration with the downlink configured as follow: Modulation Compression + Selective RE D. Test Requirement (expected result) Same as in clause 3.2.3.3.2.

##### 3.2.5.3.14 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static Format (NS) Block
Floating Point + Selective RE Format A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONALMANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format. This Block Floating-Point+ Selective RE Format scenario is a non-static format scenario that will verify DL and UL correct encoding of IQ information for 2 supported bit widths: 9 bits or 14 bits. For this test scenario, the compression test methodology will be based on the description in clause 3.2.3.3.1 However, on top of the test frame requirements from clause 3.2.3.3.1, this test scenario also requires a test frame that MUST include PRBs with a combination of allocated and empty Resource Elements in the same symbol, to verify if the O-RU properly interprets the sReMask value in the udCompParam field (user data compression parameter). The measurements must be performed on the symbols that include a combination of empty and allocated resource elements. A test frame example can be based on Type 2 DMRS with 2 DMRS CDM groups without data. The resource mapping model for the Resource Blocks is shown on the diagram below, where both symbols #2 and #11 include a combination of empty and allocated Resources. The uncompressed and compressed test frames are listed in the table below. Stimulus File Name Description Non-Static Downlink Uncompressed (CU-plane) TDD-NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-UNC-RE- with both empty and allocated RE in the same 16B symbol Non-Static Uplink Uncompressed (C-plane only) TDD-NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-UNC-RE- with both empty and allocated RE in the same 16B symbol Non-Static Downlink Block Floating Point + TDD-NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-BRE-9B Selective RE 9 Bits (CU-plane) Non-Static Downlink Block Floating Point + TDD-NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-BRE-14B Selective 14 Bits (CU-plane) Non-Static Uplink Block Floating Point 9 Bits + TDD-NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-BRE-9B Selective RE (C-plane only) Non-Static Uplink Block Floating Point 14 Bits + TDD-NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-BRE-14B Selective RE (C-plane only) B. Test Entrance Criteria Same as 3.2.5.3.7 for Non-Static Block floating point + Selective RE formats. C. Test Methodology Same as in clause 3.2.3.3.2 with Non-Static Block Floating Point + Selective RE test patterns The uncompressed test frames used for this test are
- TDD-NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-UNC-BRE-16B
- TDD-NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-UNC-BRE-16B
The compressed test frames used for this test are
- TDD-NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-BRE-9B
- TDD-NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-DL-BRE-14B
- TDD-NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-BRE-9B
- TDD-NR-FR1-CMP-TST-FRAME-NS-UL-BRE-14B
D. Test Requirement (expected result) Same as in clause 3.2.3.3.2.

##### 3.2.5.3.15 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Compression Non-Static Format (NS) mod- compr + Selective RE Format
A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONALMANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU supports this compression format. This Modulation Compression + Selective RE Format scenario is a non-static format scenario that will verify DL correct encoding of IQ information. This is the same as 3.2.5.3.13 with Non-Static test frames The uncompressed and compressed test frames are listed in the table below Stimulus File Name Description Non-Static Downlink Uncompressed (CU-plane) NR-FR1-TDD -CMP-TST -NS-DL-UNC-RE-16B with both empty and allocated RE in the same symbol Non-Static Downlink Modulation Compression + NR-FR1-TDD -CMP-TST -NS-DL-MRE Selective RE B. Test Entrance Criteria Same as 3.2.5.3.12 for non-static Modulation Compression + Selective RE formats. C. Test Methodology Same as in clause 3.2.3.3.2 with Non-Static Block Floating Point + Selective RE test patterns The uncompressed test frames used for this test are
- NR-FR1-TDD -CMP-TST -NS-DL-UNC-RE-16B
The compressed test frames used for this test are
- NR-FR1-TDD -CMP-TST -NS-DL-MRE
D. Test Requirement (expected result) Same as in clause 3.2.3.3.2.

#### 3.2.5.4 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Delay Management (DLM)
The delay management tests for FR1 TDD Conducted are the same as the tests described in clause 3.2.3.4, except that the TDD waveforms are to be used as shown in clause 3.2.1.1.3. The tests for uplink and downlink may be executed independently as described in the corresponding FDD test case for Delay Management or the tester may choose to combine the uplink and downlink tests into a single test.

#### 3.2.5.5 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Transport (TRN)
This test is for future study.

#### 3.2.5.6 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class LAA (LAA)
The LAA tests for FR1 TDD Conducted are the same as the tests described in clause 3.2.3.6.

#### 3.2.5.7 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class LTE (LTE)
The LTE tests for FR1 TDD Conducted are the same as the tests described in clause 3.2.3.7. except that the TDD waveforms are to be used as shown in Figure 3.2.5.2-1 Combined DL and UL TDD 20 MHz 100 RB. The tests for uplink and downlink may be executed independently as described in the corresponding FDD test case for Delay Management or the tester may choose to combine the uplink and downlink tests into a single test.

#### 3.2.5.8 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Section Type 3 (ST3)
The Section Type 3 tests for FR1 TDD Conducted are the same as the tests described in clause 3.2.3.8.

### 3.2.6 FR1 and FR2 TDD Non-conducted OTA Signal Tests

#### 3.2.6.1 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class NR testing Generic (NRG)
All TDD tests described in this clause will be combined UL and DL tests (i.e. a single test frame describing both uplink and downlink). The default test frame used in this clause is described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 of this document for FR1 radios and clause 3.2.1.1.4 for FR2 radios. There are several variations on this test signal depending on the capabilities of the radio. If the radio does not support the numerology used in the example tests as reported in the M-plane it will be up to the test developer to modify their tests to adapt to the radio. This can usually be accomplished by using stock test patterns described above. The test is expected to follow the same spirit as the tests in this document but things like symbol numbers, number of PRBs, etc. may have to be changed.

##### 3.2.6.1.1 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Base 3GPP DL/UL
A. Test Description and Applicability This test is MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can meet the most basic uplink and downlink requirements for O- RAN fronthaul using a TDD signal. Subsequent tests will build on this to exercise additional capabilities of the Fronthaul. Using the standard TDD test frame described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4 for FR2, the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink and uplink the default signal. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit and receive a basic 3GPP, TDD test frame using the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.5 of this document (or a similar 3GPP waveform) except only one spatial stream on one antenna will be used. This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required). All downlink user data in this test will be a PN23 sequence and all uplink user data will also be a PN23 sequence. B. Test Entrance Criteria The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4 for FR2 of this document. The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described by TM-FR1-TM1.1 for FR1 and 120 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz bandwidth as described by TM FR2-TM1.1 for FR2. It will be for 5G New Radio only. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. Connect the signal analyser and signal source to the O-RU antenna ports and configure the analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal. b. Procedure Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the signal described above in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4 for FR2 in the CUSM emulator. Built the appropriate test frame (uplink slots) for the signal source. Use the CUSM emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the signal. Every symbol used in the test should be described by a single section (DL-SCH that are used for the test, DMRS and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages for downlink slots only. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4 for FR2. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame. It will be the responsibility of the TER’s signal analyser and source to coordinate downlink and uplink TDD transmissions. The CUSM Emulator of the TER is responsible for receiving uplink U-Plane messages, extracting IQ and decoding it to bits which can be compared to those sent by the signal source. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The signal measured by the signal analyser should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 2. The test frame received by the signal analyser shall be the same as the signal described above. If it contains all the same PRB assignments and the PN23 sequence, the test passes.

##### 3.2.6.1.2 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended 3GPP DL/UL – Resource Allocation
A. Test Description and Applicability This test is MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can meet the extended uplink and downlink requirements for O-RAN fronthaul using a TDD signal. This test modifies the previous test by using a PN23 sequence in all test PDSCH sections. Using the standard TDD test frame described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4 for FR2 the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink and uplink the default signal. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit and receive an extended 3GPP TDD test frame using the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4 for FR2 of this document (or a similar 3GPP waveform) except only one spatial stream on one antenna will be used. This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required). All downlink user data in this test will be a PN23 sequence and all uplink user data will also be a PN23 sequence. B. Test Entrance Criteria The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4 for FR2 of this document. The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described by TM-FR1-TM1.1 for FR1 and 120 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz bandwidth as described by TM FR2-TM1.1 for FR2. It will be for 5G New Radio only. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. Connect the signal analyser to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal. b. Procedure Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the signal described above in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4 for FR2 in the CUSM emulator. In this case use a PN23 sequence for the downlink shared channel. Build the appropriate test frame (uplink slots) for the signal source. Use the CUSM emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the uplink and downlink signals. Every symbol used in the test should be described by a single section (DL-SCH that are used for the test, DMRS and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages for downlink slots only. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4 for FR2. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame. It will be the responsibility of the TER’s signal analyser and source to coordinate downlink and uplink TDD transmissions. The CUSM Emulator of the TER is responsible for receiving uplink U-Plane messages, extracting IQ and decoding it to bits which can be compared to those sent by the signal source. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The signal measured by the signal analyser should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 2. The test frame received by the signal analyser shall be the same as the signal described above. If it contains all the same PRB assignments and the PN23 sequence, the test passes.

##### 3.2.6.1.3 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using SymInc parameter 3GPP DL/UL
– Resource Allocation A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can accurately interpret C-Plane resource allocation messages with the SymInc parameter set, transfer U-Plane data into the correct resource blocks and transmit this data accurately in the downlink and interpret and capture the correct resource blocks in the uplink with the SymInc parameter set. This test uses a PN23 sequence in all test PDSCH sections. Using the standard TDD test frame described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4 for FR2 the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink and uplink the specified signal using the SymInc bit in both uplink and downlink. Only one spatial stream on one antenna will be used. This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required). All downlink user data in this test will be a PN23 sequence and all uplink user data will also be a PN23 sequence. B. Test Entrance Criteria The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4 for FR2 of this document. The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described by TM-FR1-TM1.1 for FR1 and 120 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz bandwidth as described by TM FR2-TM1.1 for FR2. It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must support the SymInc Parameter as notified by the M-Plane. The signal analyser must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. Connect the signal analyser to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal. Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna port and configure it as described below. b. Procedure Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the signal described above in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4 for FR2 in the CUSM emulator. In this case use a PN23 sequence for the downlink shared channel. Build the appropriate test frame (uplink slots) for the signal source. Use the CUSM emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the uplink and downlink signals. Every symbol used in the test should be described by a single section (DL-SCH that are used for the test, DMRS and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages for downlink slots only. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4 for FR2. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame. It will be the responsibility of the TER’s signal analyser and source to coordinate downlink and uplink TDD transmissions. The CUSM Emulator of the TER is responsible for receiving uplink U-Plane messages, extracting IQ and decoding it to bits which can be compared to those sent by the signal source. For the downlink slots and symbols: Every symbol should be described by a single type 1 section (DL- SCH and DCI) except symbols #5 and #6 which will be used for the SymInc test. The data in these sections must be a PN23 sequence using an initial seed of all ones. Each symbol should be a new PN23 sequence, that is PRB 0 should contain the data from a new PN23 sequence for each symbol. Symbols number 5 and should be stock data sections type “E” as shown above. This stock data section consists of two adjacent symbols each containing two sections. The corresponding C-Plane message will contain 4 section IDs in a single C-Plane message describing symbols #5 and #6. The startSymbolId in the application header will be symbol #5. The second section ID for symbol #5 will have the SymInc bit set informing the O-RU that the next section will begin describing symbol #6. The corresponding U-Plane messages will be a new PN23 sequence for each symbol (5 and 6). Symbol #6 contains PTRS in TM FR2-TM1.1. The data payload should be mapped around the PTRS. Additional sections should be included to describe the DCI symbols as well as Reference Signals described in 38.141-1. For the uplink sections and symbols: Load uplink test waveform on the RF signal source. Note this signal has a PN23 sequence as user data. Configure the source to generate a new PN23 sequence in symbols #5 and #6. Configure the signal source to play test waveforms on 10ms frame boundaries starting when it receives a trigger signal from the O-DU emulator that all C-Plane messages have been sent. Ensure the O-RU and source are synchronized so downlink slots do not conflict with uplink slots. Load C-Plane message sequence on Test Equipment O-RU (TER) – Only symbols #5 and #6 in each slot will be used in this test. All other symbols will contain either reference signals or data but will not be considered part of the test. These two symbols will be used to determine whether the radio properly increments the current symbol ID when the SymInc bit is set. The C-Plane message for symbol #5 should have the SymInc bit set. This message should have a second section describing symbol #6 (using the SymInc mechanism). All PRBs in each symbol will be requested (In the example waveform 51 PRBs). Steps:
- Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul Messages
- Launch test to play the C-Plane messages and the downlink U-Plane messages and trigger the
source to play the RF signal on a frame boundary.
- Play messages to the O-RU respecting the timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or
3.2.1.1.4 for FR2. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the frame.
- Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the
Antenna port
- Extract IQ information from the captured U-Plane messages
- Extract IQ information from the signal analyser for downlink slots
- Extract Payload for both signals
- Compare payload binary sequences
D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The signal measured by the signal analyser should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 2. The signal extracted by the U-Plane messages (uplink) should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 3. The test frame received by the signal analyser should be the same as the signal described above. If it contains all the same PRB assignments and the correct PN23 data, the downlink test passes. 4. The test frame extracted from the uplink U-Plane messages should be the same as the uplink signal described above. If it contains all the same PRB assignments and correct PN23 data, the uplink test passes.

##### 3.2.6.1.4 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using reMask parameter 3GPP DL/UL
– Resource Allocation A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can accurately interpret C-Plane resource allocation messages with the reMask parameter set, transfer U-Plane data into the correct resource blocks and transmit this data accurately in the downlink and interpret and capture the correct resource blocks in the uplink with the reMask parameter set. This test uses a PN23 sequence in all test PDSCH sections. Using the standard TDD test frame described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4 for FR2 the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink and uplink the specified signal using the rb bit in both uplink and downlink. Only one spatial stream on one antenna will be used. This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required). All downlink user data in this test will be a PN23 sequence and all uplink user data will also be a PN23 sequence. B. Test Entrance Criteria The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4 for FR2 of this document. The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described by TM-FR1-TM1.1 for FR1 and 120 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz bandwidth as described by TM FR2-TM1.1 for FR2. It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must support the reMask Parameter as notified by the M-Plane. The signal analyser must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. Connect the signal analyser to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal. Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna port and configure it as described below. b. Procedure Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the signal described above in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4 for FR2 in the CUSM emulator. In this case use a PN23 sequence for the downlink shared channel. Build the appropriate test frame (uplink slots) for the signal source. Use the CUSM emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the uplink and downlink signals. Every symbol used in the test should be described by a single section (DL-SCH that are used for the test, DMRS and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages for downlink slots only. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4 for FR2. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame. It will be the responsibility of the TER’s signal analyser and source to coordinate downlink and uplink TDD transmissions. The CUSM Emulator of the TER is responsible for receiving uplink U-Plane messages, extracting IQ and decoding it to bits which can be compared to those sent by the signal source. For the downlink slots and symbols: Symbol number 2 should be stock data Section Type “D” as shown in Figure 3.2.3.1-4. This test will only be using PRBs 1 through 5. The corresponding C-Plane message will contain a section IDs in a single C-Plane message describing symbol #6. The startSymbolId in the application header will be symbol #6. The C-Plane message will have one section with the reMask set to only the odd number resource elements. The number of PRBs will be 5. The start PRB will be 1. The corresponding U-Plane message will be a new PN23 Sequence (initial seed is all ones) in PRBs 1 through 5 of symbol #2. For the uplink sections and symbols: Load C-Plane message sequence on Test Equipment O-RU (TER) symbol #5 in each slot will be used to determine whether the radio properly transmits only every other resource element when the reMask is set. No other symbols will be used in this test, however other symbols containing reference signals should be used to ensure the O-RU can synchronize with the TER. The TER will not request any other symbols from the O-RU in this test. The C-Plane message for symbol #5 should have the reMask set to tell the radio to send only every odd resource element. Only the PRBs 1 through 5 will be used in this section (matching stock data Section Type “D”). The number of PRBs will be 4 and the start PRB will be 1. Steps:
- Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul Messages
- Launch test to play the C-Plane messages and the downlink U-Plane messages and trigger the
source to play the RF signal on a frame boundary.
- Play messages to the O-RU respecting the timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or
3.2.1.1.4 for FR2. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the frame.
- Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the
Antenna port
- Extract IQ information from the captured U-Plane messages
- Extract IQ information from the signal analyser for downlink slots
- Extract Payload for both signals
- Compare payload binary sequences
D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The signal measured by the signal analyser should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 2. The signal extracted by the U-Plane messages (uplink) should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 3. The test frame received by the signal analyser should be the same as the signal described above. If it contains all the same PRB assignments and the correct PN23 sequence as data, the downlink test passes. 4. The test frame extracted from the uplink U-Plane messages should be the same as the uplink signal described above. If it contains all the same PRB assignments and the correct PN23 sequence as data, the uplink test passes.

##### 3.2.6.1.5 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using RB parameter 3GPP DL/UL –
Resource Allocation A. Test Description and Applicability This test is MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can accurately interpret C-Plane resource allocation messages with the rb parameter set, transfer U-Plane data into the correct resource blocks and transmit this data accurately in the downlink and interpret and capture the correct resource blocks in the uplink with the rb parameter set. This test uses a PN23 sequence in all test PDSCH sections. Using the standard TDD test frame described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4 for FR2 the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink and uplink the specified signal using the rb bit in both uplink and downlink. Only one spatial stream on one antenna will be used. This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required). All downlink user data in this test will be a PN23 sequence and all uplink user data will also be a PN23 sequence. B. Test Entrance Criteria The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4 for FR2 of this document. The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described by TM-FR1-TM1.1 for FR1 and 120 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz bandwidth as described by TM FR2-TM1.1 for FR2. It will be for 5G New Radio only. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. Connect the signal analyser to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal. Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna port and configure it as described below. b. Procedure Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the signal described above in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4 for FR2 in the CUSM emulator. In this case use a PN23 sequence for the downlink shared channel. Build the appropriate test frame (uplink slots) for the signal source. Use the CUSM emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the uplink and downlink signals. Every symbol used in the test should be described by a single section (DL-SCH that are used for the test, DMRS and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages for downlink slots only. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4 for FR2. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame. It will be the responsibility of the TER’s signal analyser and source to coordinate downlink and uplink TDD transmissions. The CUSM Emulator of the TER is responsible for receiving uplink U-Plane messages, extracting IQ and decoding it to bits which can be compared to those sent by the signal source. For the downlink slots and symbols: Every allocated (see below) symbol should be described by a single section (DL-SCH and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. Symbol #3 of each downlink slot should be Stock data Section Type “D” as shown in clause 3.2.1.1.5 above. The control plane message for symbol #3 will only include PRBs number 5 through 23. This C-Plane message will have the rb bit set to one for this section. All other DL-SCH symbols will not contain data except required reference signals needed to synchronize the signal analyser. Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages. U-Plane data in symbol #3 will include a new PN23 sequence starting with an initial seed of all ones starting in PRB number 5. Additional sections should be included to describe the DCI symbols as well as Reference Signals described in TS 138.141-1. For the uplink sections and symbols: Load uplink test waveform on the RF signal source. Note this signal has a PN23 sequence as user data. Configure the signal source to play the TDD test waveforms on 10ms frame boundaries starting when it receives a trigger signal from the O-DU emulator that all C-Plane messages have been sent. Ensure the O-RU and source are synchronized so downlink slots do not conflict with uplink slots. Load C-Plane message sequence on Test Equipment O-RU (TER) – This C-Plane sequence should describe a single section per uplink symbol (51 RBs per symbol). The C-Plane message for uplink symbol #6 should have the rb bit set. All other sections should have the rb bit set to zero. Steps:
- Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul Messages
- Launch test to play the C-Plane messages and the downlink U-Plane messages and trigger the
source to play the RF signal on a frame boundary.
- Play messages to the O-RU respecting the timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or
3.2.1.1.4 for FR2. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the frame.
- Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the
Antenna port
- Extract IQ information from the captured U-Plane messages
- Extract IQ information from the signal analyser for downlink slots
- Extract Payload for both signals
- Compare payload binary sequences
D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The signal measured by the signal analyser should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 2. The signal extracted by the U-Plane messages (uplink) should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 3. The test frame received by the signal analyser should be the same as the signal described above. If it contains all the same PRB assignments and PN23 sequence data, the downlink test passes. 4. The test frame extracted from the uplink U-Plane messages shall be the same as the uplink signal described above. If it contains all the same PRB assignments and PN23 sequence data, the uplink test passes.

##### 3.2.6.1.6 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using Non-contiguous PRB Allocation
Section Extension 6 3GPP DL/UL – Resource Allocation A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can accurately interpret C-Plane resource allocation messages with section extension 6, transfer U-Plane data into the correct resource blocks and transmit this data accurately in the downlink and interpret and capture the correct resource blocks in the uplink with section extension 6. This test uses a PN23 sequence in all test PDSCH sections. Using the standard TDD test frame described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4 for FR2 the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink and uplink the specified signal using section extension 6 in both uplink and downlink. In this test stock data section definition C will be used to exercise the non-contiguous RB allocation, all 273 PRBs (51 in the uplink slots) or the max number of PRBs per symbol for the highest numerology the radio supports will be used in this test. Only one spatial stream on one antenna will be used. This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required). All downlink user data in this test will be a PN23 sequence and all uplink user data will also be a PN23 sequence. B. Test Entrance Criteria The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4 for FR2 of this document. The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described by TM-FR1-TM1.1 for FR1 and 120 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz bandwidth as described by TM FR2-TM1.1 for FR2. It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must support section extension 6 as notified by the M-Plane. The signal analyser must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. Connect the signal analyser to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal. Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna port and configure it as described below. b. Procedure Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the signal described above in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4 for FR2 in the CUSM emulator. In this case use a PN23 sequence for the downlink shared channel. Build the appropriate test frame (uplink slots) for the signal source. Use the CUSM emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the uplink and downlink signals. Every symbol used in the test should be described by a single section (DL-SCH that are used for the test, DMRS and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages for downlink slots only. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame. It will be the responsibility of the TER’s signal analyser and source to coordinate downlink and uplink TDD transmissions. The CUSM Emulator of the TER is responsible for receiving uplink U-Plane messages, extracting IQ and decoding it to bits which can be compared to those sent by the signal source. For the downlink slots and symbols: Only symbols number 6 and 7 will be used in each slot. Symbol #6 contains PTRS in TM FR2-TM1.1. The data payload should be mapped around the PTRS. Other symbols may contain data including reference signals to ensure test equipment can synchronize with the signal. The starting PRB will be zero and number of PRBs will be chosen from one or more columns in Table 3.2.6-1 below. The resource block group size will be 16 based on ETSI TS 138.214 Table 5.1.2.2.1-1 as shown in 3.2.6-1 RBG Group Size. Bandwidth Part Size Configuration 1 Configuration 2

# 37 – 72 4 8

# 73 – 144 8 16

# 145 – 275 16 16
Using the calculations in the O-RAN CUS Specification [2], clause 7.7.6 for the FR1 test waveform described above, the ID of the last RBG will be 17, f(0) will be 16, f(n) will be 16 and f(lastRbgID) will be (17 total RBGs), startPrbc will be zero and numPrbc will be 273. For the FR2 test waveform, the ID of the last RBG will be 8, f(0) will be 8, f(n) will be 8 and f(lastRbgID) will be 2 (8 total RBGs), startPrbc will be zero and numPrbc will be 66. If the radio does not support this numerology the following table will apply. The number of PRBs correspond to Table 3.2.6-2: 3.2.6-2 Stock Data Sections. # PRBs per Symbol (11-79) max

# 24 25 32 50 51 52 65 66 79
PRB/sym numPRBc 11 24 25 32 50 51 52 65 66 79 rbgSize 4 4 4 4 8 8 8 8 8 16 lastRbgID 2 5 6 7 6 6 6 8 8 4 f(0) 4 4 4 4 8 8 8 8 8 16 f(n) 4 4 4 4 8 8 8 8 8 16 f(lastRbgID) 3 4 1 4 2 3 4 1 2 15 rbgMask 0000005 000003D 000007D 00000FD 000007D 000007D 000007D 00001FD 00001FD 000001D (Hex) # PRBs per Symbol (100-273) max PRB/sym 100 106 107 132 133 135 162 217 270 273 numPRBc 100 106 107 132 133 135 162 217 270 273 rbgSize 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 lastRbgID 6 6 6 8 8 8 10 13 16 17 f(0) 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 f(n) 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 f(lastRbgID) 4 10 11 4 5 7 2 9 14 1 rbgMask (Hex) 000007D 000007D 000007D 00001FD 00001FD 00001FD 00007FD 0003FFD 001FFFD 003FFFD Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal for FR1 or NR-FR2-TM1.1 for FR2 as described above in the O-DU emulator. Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C- Plane messages that describe the signal. Every symbol should be described by a single type 1 section (DL-SCH and DCI) except symbols #6 and #7 which will be used for the section extension 6 test. The data in symbol #6 should be a new PN23 sequence starting in the first PRB and continuing to PRB 273 (RBG number 17) for FR1 and PRB 66 (RBG number 8) for FR2. Symbol #7 should be identical to symbol #6. The rbgMask value should be set to 0x3FFFD for FR1 or 0x1FD for FR2, and the symbolMask value should be set to 00000011000000b. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. The O-DU emulator will build a U-Plane message containing the PN23 IQ data for the first 16 PRBs (RBG 0), this message will have the section ID used in the C-Plane message described above. Another U-Plane message will be created using the same section ID but with the PN23 data for the rest of the RBGs except for RBG 1 in it. The same U-Plane messages will be used for symbol #7. For the uplink sections and symbols: For this test symbols number 6 and 7 will be used in each slot. For the FR1 waveform, the starting PRB will be zero and number of PRBs will be 51. The resource block group size will be 8. Using the calculations in the O-RAN CUS Specification [2], clause 7.7.6, the ID of the last RBG will be 6, f(0) will be 8, f(n) will be 8 and f(lastRbgID) will be 3. For the FR2 waveform the parameters are similar to the downlink indicated above. Every symbol should be described by a single type 1 section (DL-SCH and DCI) except symbols #6 and #7 which will be used for the section extension 6 test. The data in symbol #6 is expected to be a new PN23 sequence starting in the first PRB and continuing to PRB 51 (RBG number 6) for FR1 or PRB 66 (RBG number for FR2). Symbol #7 should be identical to symbol #6. The rbgMask value should be set to 0x7D for FR1 and 0x1FD for FR2, and the symbolMask value should be set to 00000011000000b. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. If the radio only supports another numerology see the tables above in the downlink sections and symbols for appropriate modifications. Steps:
- Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul Messages
- Launch test to play the C-Plane messages and the downlink U-Plane messages and trigger the
source to play the RF signal on a frame boundary.
- Play messages to the O-RU respecting the timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or
3.2.1.1.4 for FR2. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the frame.
- Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the
Antenna port
- Extract IQ information from the captured U-Plane messages
- Extract IQ information from the signal analyser for downlink slots
- Extract Payload for both signals
- Compare payload binary sequences
D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The signal measured by the signal analyser should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 2. The signal extracted by the U-Plane messages (uplink) should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 3. The test frame received by the signal analyser should be the same as the signal described above. If it contains all the same PRB assignments and the correct PN23 sequence as data, the downlink test passes. 4. The test frame extracted from the uplink U-Plane messages should be the same as the uplink signal described above. If it contains all the same PRB assignments and the correct PN23 sequence as data, the uplink test passes.

##### 3.2.6.1.7 UC- Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended 3GPP DL/UL – Resource Allocation –
Coupling C and U plane via time and frequency A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can meet the extended uplink and downlink requirements for O-RAN fronthaul using a TDD signal. This test uses time and frequency to couple C-Plane and U-Plane messages. Using the standard TDD test frame described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4 for FR2 the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink and uplink the default signal. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can transmit and receive an extended 3GPP TDD test frame using the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 of this document (or a similar 3GPP waveform) except only one spatial stream on one antenna will be used. This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required). All downlink user data in this test will be a PN23 sequence and all uplink user data will also be a PN23 sequence. The radio must report over the M-Plane that it supports C and U plane coupling via time and frequency. B. Test Entrance Criteria The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4 for FR2 of this document. The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described by TM-FR1-TM1.1 and 120 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz bandwidth as described by TM FR2-TM1.1 for FR2. It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must report over the M-Plane that it supports C and U plane coupling via time and frequency. The O-RU must have a conducted antenna port (or TAB connector) to be connected to a signal analyser and signal source. It must also support the default parameters defined in clause 3.2.1.1.1 above. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. Connect the signal analyser to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal. b. Procedure Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the signal described above in clause 3.2.1.1.3 in the CUSM emulator. In this case use a PN23 sequence for the downlink shared channel. Build the appropriate test frame (uplink slots) for the signal source. Use the CUSM emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the uplink and downlink signals. Every symbol used in the test should be described by a single section (DL-SCH that are used for the test, DMRS and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages for downlink slots only. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame. It will be the responsibility of the TER’s signal analyser and source to coordinate downlink and uplink TDD transmissions. The CUSM Emulator of the TER is responsible for receiving uplink U-Plane messages, extracting IQ and decoding it to bits which can be compared to those sent by the signal source. All section IDs in C-Plane messages and downlink U-Plane messages must be 4095. C-Plane and Downlink U-Plane messages sent by the TER will have valid values in the following fields:
- EAxC ID
- Datadirection bit
- Frame ID, subframeID, slotID, startsymbolID, and NumSymbol
- SectionID must have a value 4095
- SymInc, rb reMask and section extension #6 are not used in this test
It is the responsibility of the TER to properly arrange uplink U-Plane messages using only time and frequency resources. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The signal measured by the signal analyser should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 2. All received U-Plane messages must have section ID equal to 4095 3. The test frame received by the signal analyser should be the same as the signal described above. If it contains all the same PRB assignments and all zero data, the test passes.

##### 3.2.6.1.8 UC- Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended 3GPP DL/UL – Coupling C and U
plane via Time and Frequency and Section Description Priorities A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to test whether the radio can implement coupling U and C plane via time and frequency and section description priorities requirements for O-RAN fronthaul using a TDD signal. This test combines the FDD, uplink and downlink tests for these same features. Note, there are two versions of this feature: coupling C and U plane messages via frequency and time and Section Description Priorities and coupling C and U plane messages via frequency and time and Section Description Priorities (optimized). This test requires both tests to be performed if the radio supports both methods otherwise only one test is to be performed in the radio only supports one of these methods. These methods are listed under test methodology below. Starting with the standard TDD test frame described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4 for FR2 the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink and uplink the signals described below. Only one spatial stream on one antenna will be used. This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required). All downlink user data in this test will be a PN23 sequence and all uplink user data will also be a PN23 sequence. B. Test Entrance Criteria The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4 for FR2 of this document and those specified below. The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described by TM-FR1-TM1.1 for FR1 and 120 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz bandwidth as described by TM FR2-TM1.1 for FR2. It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors. It will be a TDD signal. The O-RU must have a conducted antenna port (or TAB connector) to be connected to a signal analyser and signal source. It must also support the default parameters defined in clause 3.2.1.1.1 above. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. Connect the signal analyser to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal. b. Procedure for Coupling C and U plane messages via frequency and time with section priorities Build an appropriate C and U plane signals for the signals described below in the CUSM emulator. Every slot used in the test should be described by a single C-Plane message with multiple sections (DL-SCH that are used for the test, DMRS and DCI) using a Section Type 1 message. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages for downlink slots only. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame. It will be the responsibility of the TER’s signal analyser and source to coordinate downlink and uplink TDD transmissions. The CUSM Emulator of the TER is responsible for receiving uplink U-Plane messages, extracting IQ and decoding it to bits which can be compared to those sent by the signal source.
- Downlink procedure:
3.2.6-3 Time and Frequency Coupling with Priority TDD DL. # Section priority symbolMask startPrbc numPrbc reMask rbgMask beamId numSymbol Note ext 6 yes +1 00000000000100 0 273 101010101010 0xFFFFC00 1 1 Reference signal (DMRS) yes +1 00100000000000 0 273 101010101010 0xFFFFC00 2 1 Reference signal (DMRS) no 0 11111000000000 0 273 111111111111 N/A 100 6 UE1 Not used in this section without section extension 6. Just shown for information yes 0 00000100000100 15 32 010101010101 0x6000000 200 2? UE2 no 0 00000011111000 31 48 111111111111 N/A 300 8 UE3 Not used in this section without section extension 6. Just shown for information no 0 00000000000001 10 2 111111111111 N/A 3 1 Special channel Not used in this section without section extension 6. Just shown for information In this test the section configuration will be as shown in Table 3.2.6-3 above. The 6 sections will comprise one slot and this slot will be repeated continuously in the downlink slots in the TDD frame to synchronize the TER signal analyser. The six sections will be sent on one C-Plane message using C and U plane coupling via time and frequency. The configuration above follows the example given in the CUSM specification. The section numbers in the above table do not represent SectionID numbers but individual sections. Sections #1 and #2 describe hypothetical DMRS signals sent in symbols #2 and #11 in each slot. These signals have every other subcarrier masked by reMask. This is the same as shown above in the standard NR-FR1-TM1.1 test signal shown above for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4 for FR2. The DMRS signals in symbol #2 have beam ID 1 and symbol #11 have beam ID 2. These sections use section extension 6 and contain a higher priority than all other sections. Section #3 describes PN23 data sent to hypothetical UE #1 it overlaps REs in sections #1 and #2 but has a lower priority so sections #1 and #2 are valid. Since section #3 has contiguous symbols section extension 6 is not needed. Section #4 is for hypothetical UE #2. It occupies the same symbols as the DMRS signals but uses a different reMask. Since the symbols are not contiguous it uses sections extension 6 but the priority is set to the default 0. Section #5 is for hypothetical UE #3 and uses a contiguous set of symbols so section extension 6 is not needed. It does not overlap any other signals. This section is optional because it does not test Section Description Priority. Section #6 is a hypothetical special channel using only one symbol and does not require section extension 6. This section is also optional. U-Plane messages will contain:
- DMRS signals for every odd resource element as described by section #1 for symbol #11
- DMRS signals for every odd resource element as described by section #2 for symbol #2
- A new PN23 sequence in each of the first 5 symbols as described in section #3. Note that for
symbol #2 the PN sequence will be pierced by the DMRS signals.
- A new PN23 sequence for symbol #6 as described by section #4 as well as a new PN sequence for
symbol #11. These sequences are only 32 PRBs long and start in PRB 15. The sequence in symbol #11 will be pierced by DMRS signals.
- The user data for sections number #5 and #6 are standard PN23 sequences only for these symbols
and PRBs described in the table above. Symbol #6 contains PTRS in TM FR2-TM1.1. The data payload should be mapped around the PTRS.
- Uplink Procedure:
Build the following Uplink C-Plane message. Start with a standard as G-FR1-A1-5 for FR1 or G-FR2-A3-1 for FR2 waveform. Define the sections shown in Table 3.2.6-4. These sections are described below. 3.2.6-4 Time and Frequency Coupling with Priority TDD UL. # Section priority symbolMask startPrbc numPrbc reMask rbgMask beamId numSymbol Note ext 6 yes +1 00000000000100 0 273 101010101010 0xFFFFC00 1 1 Reference signal (DMRS) yes +1 00100000000000 0 273 101010101010 0xFFFFC00 2 1 Reference signal (DMRS) no 0 11111000000000 64 273 111111111111 N/A 100 6 UE1 Not used in this section without section extension 6. Just shown for information yes 0 00000100000100 64 273 010101010101 0x0FFFC00 200 2? UE2 no 0 00000011111000 31 48 111111111111 N/A 300 8 UE3 Not used in this section without section extension 6. Just shown for information no 0 00000000000001 10 2 111111111111 N/A 3 1 Special channel Not used in this section without section extension 6. Just shown for information In this test the section configuration will be as shown in Table 3.2.6-4 above. The 6 sections will comprise one slot and this slot will be repeated to fill the entire frame (i.e. 20 times). The six sections will be sent on one C-Plane message using C and U plane coupling via time and frequency. The configuration above follows the example given in the CUSM specification. o The section numbers in the above table do not represent SectionID numbers but individual sections. Sections #1 and #2 describe hypothetical DMRS signals sent in symbols #2 and #11 in each slot. These signals have every other subcarrier masked by reMask. This is the same as shown above in the standard G-FR1-A1-5 test signal shown above with the exception that the DMRS signals continue for all 273 RBs. The DMRS signals in symbol #2 have beam ID 1 and symbol #11 have beam ID 2. These sections use section extension 6 and contain a higher priority than all other sections. o Section #3 describes PN23 data sent to hypothetical UE #1 it overlaps REs in sections #1 and #2 but has a lower priority so sections #1 and #2 are valid. Since section #3 has contiguous symbols section extension 6 is not needed. Note it starts in PRM 64 (RBG 4) and continues for the remainder of the 273 RBs. o Section #4 is for hypothetical UE #2. It occupies the same symbols as the DMRS signals but uses a different reMask. Since the symbols are not contiguous it uses sections extension 6 but the priority is set to the default 0. It also starts in RBG 4 (RB 64) and continues to the rest of the 273 RBs. o Section #5 is for hypothetical UE #3 and uses a contiguous set of symbols so section extension 6 is not needed. It does not overlap any other signals. This section is optional because it does not test Section Description Priority. o Section #6 is a hypothetical special channel using only one symbol and does not require section extension 6. This section is also optional.
- Load the following waveform into the signal source:
o DMRS signals for every odd resource element as described by section #1 for symbol #11 o DMRS signals for every odd resource element as described by section #2 for symbol #2 o A new PN23 sequence in each of the first 5 symbols as described in section #3. Note that for symbol #2 the PN sequence will be pierced by the DMRS signals. o A new PN23 sequence for symbol #6 as described by section #4 as well as a new PN sequence for symbol #11. These sequences start in PRB 64 and continue to PRB 273. The sequence in symbol #11 will be pierced by DMRS signals. o The user data for sections number #5 and #6 are standard PN23 sequences only for these symbols and PRBs described in the table above.
- Configure signal source to play test waveforms on 10ms frame boundaries starting when it receives a
trigger signal from the O-DU emulator that C-Plane messages have been sent.
- Load C-Plane message described above on Test Equipment O-RU (TER). The C-Plane message will
contain valid values in the following fields:
- EAxC ID
- Datadirection bit (Uplink)
- Frame ID, subframeID, slotID, startsymbolID, and NumSymbol
- SectionID must have a value 4095
- Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul Messages
- Launch test to play the RF uplink frame after the C-Plane messages have been sent honouring timing
windows
- Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the Antenna
port
- TER will arrange U-Plane messages according to time and frequency
- Extract IQ information
- Extract Payload
- Compare payload binary sequences
c. Procedure for Coupling C and U plane messages via frequency and time with section priorities (optimized) This test will be identical to the above test with the following exceptions:
- There will be two C-Plane messages describing the uplink and downlink signals to be sent.
- The first two sections listed in the table above (those with higher priorities) will be repeated in both C-
Plane messages and will have a section ID equal to a value between 0 and “max-highest-priority- sections-per-slot” as sent on the M-Plane.
- The other sections will be divided between the two C-Plane messages and not repeated.
- The repeated C-plane message will have the “repetition” bit set to one.
D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The signal measured by the signal analyser should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 2. The test frame received by the signal analyser must be the same as the signal described above. It must contain all the same PRB assignments and PN23 sequences. 3. The data received from the O-RU on the uplink U-Plane must match the uplink signal sent to the DUT including all the same PRB assignments and PN23 sequences. 4. The beamweights or magnitude and phase relation at the antenna ports (or TAB connectors) of the test signal that achieves the highest performance (i.e. best EVM, power, SNR, etc.) should match with the manufacturer’s declaration of the beam under test. The procedures for test case 3.2.3.2.4 (UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP UL – Predefined-beam Beamforming) and test case 3.2.3.2.3 (UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming 3GPP DL – Predefined-beam Beamforming) should be used. 5. These expected results are applicable for either or both forms of this test. 6. If all of the above results are observed the test passes.

##### 3.2.6.1.9 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using Non-contiguous PRB Allocation
Section Extension 12 3GPP DL/UL – Resource Allocation A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the radio can accurately interpret C-Plane resource allocation messages with section extension 12, transfer U-Plane data into the correct resource blocks and transmit this data accurately in the downlink and interpret and capture the correct resource blocks in the uplink with section extension 12. This test uses a PN23 sequence in all test PDSCH sections. Using the standard TDD test frame described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4 for FR2 the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink and uplink the specified signal using section extension 12 in both uplink and downlink. In this test stock data section definition C will be used to exercise the non-contiguous RB allocation, all 273 PRBs (48 of the 51 in the uplink slots) or the max number of PRBs per symbol for the highest numerology the radio supports will be used in this test. Only one spatial stream on one antenna will be used. This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required). All downlink user data in this test will be a PN23 sequence and all uplink user data will also be a PN23 sequence. B. Test Entrance Criteria The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4 for FR2 of this document. The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described by TM-FR1-TM1.1 for FR1 and 120 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz bandwidth as described by TM FR2-TM1.1 for FR2. It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors. The radio must support section extension 12 as notified by the M-Plane. The signal analyser must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. Connect the signal analyser to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal. Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna port and configure it as described below. b. Procedure Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the signal described above in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4 for FR2 in the CUSM emulator. In this case use a PN23 sequence for the downlink shared channel. Build the appropriate test frame (uplink slots) for the signal source. Use the CUSM emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the uplink and downlink signals. Every symbol used in the test should be described by a single section (DL-SCH that are used for the test, DMRS and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. Encapsulate the IQ data in U-Plane messages for downlink slots only. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame. It will be the responsibility of the TER’s signal analyser and source to coordinate downlink and uplink TDD transmissions. The CUSM Emulator of the TER is responsible for receiving uplink U-Plane messages, extracting IQ and decoding it to bits which can be compared to those sent by the signal source. For the downlink slots and symbols: Only symbols number 6 and 7 will be used in each slot. Other symbols may contain data including reference signals to ensure test equipment can synchronize with the signal. The starting PRB will be zero and number of PRBs will be chosen from one or more columns in as shown in Table 3.2.6-5 below using configuration 2. 3.2.6-5 Resource Block Group Size. Bandwidth Part Size Configuration 1 Configuration 2

# 37 – 72 4 8

# 73 – 144 8 16

# 145 – 275 16 16
Using the calculations in the O-RAN CUS Specification [2], clause 7.7.6, for the FR1 test waveform described above, the ID of the last RBG will be 17, f(0) will be 16, f(n) will be 16 and f(lastRbgID) will be (17 total RBGs). StartPrbc will be zero and numPrbc will be 273. For the FR2 test waveform, the ID of the last RBG will be 8, f(0) will be 8, f(n) will be 8 and f(lastRbgID) will be 2 (8 total RBGs), startPrbc will be zero and numPrbc will be 66. If the radio does not support this numerology the following table will apply. The number of PRBs correspond to Table 3.2.6-6: 3.2.6-6 Stock Data Sections # PRBs per Symbol (11-79) max PRB/sym 11 24 25 32 50 51 52 65 66 79 numPRBc 11 24 25 32 50 51 52 65 66 79 rbgSize 4 4 4 4 8 8 8 8 8 16 lastRbgID 2 5 6 7 6 6 6 8 8 4 f(0) 4 4 4 4 8 8 8 8 8 16 f(n) 4 4 4 4 8 8 8 8 8 16 f(lastRbgID) 3 4 1 4 2 3 4 1 2 15 # PRBs per Symbol (100-273) max PRB/sym 100 106 107 132 133 135 162 217 270 273 numPRBc 100 106 107 132 133 135 162 217 270 273 rbgSize 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 lastRbgID 6 6 6 8 8 8 10 13 16 17 f(0) 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 f(n) 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 f(lastRbgID) 4 10 11 4 5 7 2 9 14 1 Build an appropriate IQ signal describing the NR-FR1-TM1.1 signal for FR1 or NR-FR2-TM1.1 for FR2 as described above in the O-DU emulator. Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C- Plane messages that describe the signal. Every symbol should be described by a single type 1 section (DL-SCH and DCI) except symbols #6 and #7 which will be used for the section extension 12 test. The data in symbol #6 should be a new PN23 sequence starting in the first PRB and continuing to PRB 273 (RBG number 17). Symbol #6 contains PTRS in TM FR2-TM1.1. The data payload should be mapped around the PTRS. Symbol #7 should be identical to symbol #6. The symMask value should be set to 00000011000000b. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. The relevant parameters for the downlink C-Plane message are shown in the diagram below: The O-DU emulator will build a U-Plane message containing the PN23 IQ data for the first 16 PRBs (RBG 0), this message will have the section ID used in the C-Plane message described above. Another U-Plane message will be created using the same section ID but with the PN23 data for RBGs 2-17 in it. The same U-Plane messages will be used for symbol #7. For the uplink sections and symbols: For this test symbols number 6 and 7 will be used in each slot. The starting PRB will be zero and number of PRBs will be 48. The resource block group size will be 16. Using the calculations in the O-RAN CUS Specification [2], clause 7.7.6, the ID of the last RBG will be 17, f(0) will be 16, f(n) will be 16 and f(lastRbgID) will be 1. Every symbol should be described by a single type 1 section (DL-SCH and DCI) except symbols #6 and #7 which will be used for the section extension 6 test. The data in symbol #6 is expected to be a new PN23 sequence starting in the first PRB and continuing to PRB 48 (RBG number 2). Symbol #7 should be identical to symbol #6. The symMask value should be set to 00000011000000b. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. If the radio only supports another numerology see the tables above in the downlink sections and symbols for appropriate modifications. The relevant parameters for the uplink C-Plane message are shown in the diagram below: Steps:
- Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul Messages
- Launch test to play the C-Plane messages and the downlink U-Plane messages and trigger the
source to play the RF signal on a frame boundary.
- Play messages to the O-RU respecting the timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or
3.2.1.1.4 for FR2. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the frame.
- Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the
Antenna port
- Extract IQ information from the captured U-Plane messages
- Extract IQ information from the signal analyser for downlink slots
- Extract Payload for both signals
- Compare payload binary sequences
D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The signal measured by the signal analyser should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 2. The signal extracted by the U-Plane messages (uplink) should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 3. The test frame received by the signal analyser should be the same as the signal described above. If it contains all the same PRB assignments and the correct PN23 sequence as data, the downlink test passes. 4. The test frame extracted from the uplink U-Plane messages should be the same as the uplink signal described above. If it contains all the same PRB assignments and the correct PN23 sequence as data, the uplink test passes.

##### 3.2.6.1.10 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Static SRS Allocation UL – Resource Allocation
A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the O-RU can support static SRS configuration through the M-Plane. This is an uplink only test so there is no corresponding downlink test for TDD. The O-RU must report through the M-Plane that it supports static configuration of SRS. This test will use the standard TDD test frame described in clause 3.2.1.1 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4 for FR2. The test will have the CUSM emulator configure the O-RU, through the M-Plane, with a section of time/frequency resources reserved for static uplink SRS, these will be limited to the uplink slots of the TDD frame. The signal source will be programmed to send simulated SRS signals in a subset of those resources. The O-RU should receive this SRS signals and pass them through to the CUSM emulator using U-Plane messages. Note, there will be no C-Plane messages sent from the CUSM emulator and the O-RU. The signal generator will signal power levels at least 30 dB above Reference Sensitivity power Level described in TS 138.141-1 Table 7.2.5-1. This is to improve the likelihood that all data will be received by the radio correctly since we are not interested in testing receiver sensitivity but only the O-RAN protocol compliance. The placement of the time frequency resources is not specified in this test so it may be placed in any uplink slots of the TDD frame. The TER (Test Equipment, O-RU) generates an uplink SRS signal on the antenna connector or TAB connector. The TER will capture the U-Plane messages generated by the DUT and validate whether the payload matches the uplink signal as well as beam characteristics. The metric used to validate that the signal received by the CUSM emulator matches the signal sent by the signal generator will be EVM as described in Annex H.7 of ETSI TS 138.141. While some 3GPP test documents (e.g. ETSI TS 138.521 clause 6.4.2.1.3) suggest treating the EVM requirements for physical Zadoff-Chu sequences such as PRACH the same as QPSK for EVM requirements, this document will decrease the required EVM to the level specified for 64 QAM. The purpose of this is to ensure that there is no chance of false positives where a random, mistaken signal sent by the O-RU closely mimics the test signal used by the TER. Since there are no impairments made to the uplink SRS signal this should be well within the capabilities of the O-RU. B. Test Entrance Criteria The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4 for FR2 of this document. The O-RU must indicate is supports static SRS allocation. The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth for FR1 and 120 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth for FR2. It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors. Note this signal may be changed to any of the 3GPP sensitivity test signals in ETSI TS 138.141-1 if the radio does not support the numerology and bandwidth used in this test. The test signal described in this section will be used if the radio supports that numerology and bandwidth. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna port and configure the source to transmit the required SRS test signal upon receiving a trigger signal from the CUSM-E. The signal source power level should be adjusted to at least 30 dB above the setting used in the 3GPP receiver sensitivity test. Implicit in this Initial set up is statically configuring O-RU with a section of time/frequency resources for statis SRS signals. . b. Procedure
- Build an SRS signal in the signal generator that fits in the preconfigured time frequency resources set in
the initial configuration.
- Load the waveform into the signal source:
- Configure signal source to play test waveforms on 10ms frame boundaries starting when it receives a
trigger signal from the O-DU emulator that signals the start of a frame boundary.
- Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul Messages
- Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the Antenna
port connected
- TER will arrange U-Plane messages according to time and frequency
- Start SRS waveform generation on the signal generator. Ensure the test frame is repeated enough times to
generate a statistically significant number of SRS occasions. That is at least 10 occasions.
- Extract IQ information
- Calculate EVM of the SRS signal received by the CUSM emulator to the ideal signal generated by the
signal source. Use the method described in ETSI TS 138.141 Annex H.7 to perform the calculation. D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The verdict is “Test pass” if the calculated EVM is less than 8% as median EVM measured over the minimum number of SRS occasions of at least 10 occasions. 2. If any of the test conditions are not true, the verdict for the whole test is "Fail"

##### 3.2.6.1.11 UC Plane O-RU Base Class TDD Test UL – Static PRACH allocation
A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to ensure the O-RU can support static PRACH configuration through the M-Plane. This is an uplink only test so there is no corresponding downlink test for downlink slots. The O-RU must report through the M-Plane that it supports static configuration of PRACH. The concept is to repeat the spirit of test 3.2.3.8.1 (5G NR PRACH test) without sending any C-Plane type 3 messages and configuring the O-RU using only the M-Plane. TER will setup the signal generator with a PRACH test waveform according to ETSI TS 138.141-1 clause 8.4.1 and A.6. The test waveform will contain the same preamble ID repeated by following the timing offset scheme specified in the figures 8.4.1.4.2-2 or 8.4.1.4.2-3 ETSI TS 138.141-1 depending on the selected PRACH format. This is an example for FR1 – SCS=30 kHz – BW=100MHz – Format A3 configuration index 132 (From Table 6.3.3.2-3, unpaired spectrum), on each occasion the time offset of the same preamble index (selected according to Table A.6-1 ETSI TS 138.141.1) is incremented by 100nsec starting from 0 up to 800nsec (9 occasions per frame). Each PRACH occasion is at the beginning of the first nine used sub-frames. The scheme is repeated every frame. The test must be conducted using a PRACH format and configuration index the radio has reported it supports According to the PRACH waveform setting, the TER will generate a corresponding sequence of M-Plane messages which include the following parameters (According to the M-Plane specification and the PRACH configuration index supported): grouping static-prach-configuration
- leaf pattern-period - "Period after which static PRACH patterns are repeated. Unit: number of
frames."
- leaf guard-tone-low-re - "Number of REs occupied by the low guard tones."
- leaf num-prach-re - "Number of contiguous PRBs per data section description“
- leaf guard-tone-high-re - "Number of REs occupied by the high guard tones.“
- leaf sequence-duration - "Duration of single sequence of the PRACH. Sequence may be considered as
'single PRACH symbol’”
- list prach-patterns - key prach-pattern-id - "Provides a PRACH pattern. Each record in the list
represents a single PRACH occasion. Number of list entries cannot exceed max-prach-patterns“
- leaf prach-pattern-id - "Supplementary parameter acting as key for prach-pattern list.“
- leaf number-of-repetitions - "This parameter defines number of PRACH repetitions in
PRACH occasion, to which the section control is applicable
- leaf number-of-occasions - "This parameter informs how many consecutive PRACH
occasions is described by the PRACH Pattern”
- leaf re-offset – “Offset between the start of the lowest-frequency RE of the lowest frequency
PRB and the start of the lowest frequency RE belonging to the PRACH occasion. The re- offset is configured as number of PRACH REs.
- list occasion-parameters – “list of cp-lengths, gp-lengths and beam-ids applicable per each
PRACH occasion in PRACH pattern.”
> NOTE: the number of records in this list MUST be equal to value of parameter number-of-
occasions.
- leaf occasion-id - "Supplementary parameter acting as key in 'occasion-parameters'
list“
- leaf cp-length - "Cyclic prefix length. See CUS-Plane specification for detailed
description.“
- leaf gp-length - "Guard period length.“
- leaf beam-id - "This parameter defines the beam pattern to be applied to the U-
Plane data. beamId = 0 means no beamforming operation will be performed."
- leaf frame-number - "This parameter is an index inside the pattern-length, such that PRACH
occasion is happening for SFN which fulfils following equation: [SFN mod pattern-length = frame-id]“
- leaf sub-frame-id - "Identifier of sub-frame of the PRACH occasion. Value is interpreted in
the same way as subframeId field in a section description of a C-Plane message.“
- leaf time-offset - "This parameter defines the time-offset from the start of the sub-frame to
the start of the first Cyclic Prefix of PRACH pattern" By the corresponding U-Plane messages in the uplink direction, the TER will try to detect the presence of the corresponding preamble at the expected timing offset and calculate the probability of detection Pd according to the definition in TS38.141-1 clause 8.4.1.1. The signal will be exercised at only one O-RU port without adding any external AWGN power level or multipath fading profile and at a power level avoiding detection errors due to poor SNR (rule described in the sub-section C of this scenario class). The test will have the CUSM emulator configure the O-RU, through the M-Plane, with a section of time/frequency resources reserved for static uplink PRACH. The default is the PRACH configuration described in 3GPP above, but the test may be conducted with changes if the radio does not support those exact configurations. The signal source will be programmed to send simulated PRACH signals in those resources. The O-RU should receive this PRACH signal and pass them through to the CUSM emulator using U-Plane messages. Note, there will be no C- Plane messages sent from the CUSM emulator and the O-RU. B. Test Entrance Criteria O-RU must have a conducted antenna port (FR1) or TAB connector. By the M-plane or by manufacturer declaration, TER will detect all the supported SCSs, FFT sizes and carrier bandwidths by the O-RU. It is assumed that only one combination of the three above parameters supported by the O-RU is enough to validate the test. TER shall generate M-Plane messages according to one of the PRACH formats in Table A.6-1 ETSI TS 138.141. TER will choose the format either according to the manufacturer declaration item

## D.103 “PRACH format and SCS” in ETSI TS 138.141-1 or according to the format information obtained by the M- plane in case O-RU implements this feature. If more formats are claimed, only one shall be selected to reduce the
test time, preference will be given to a format specified in Table A.6.1 ETSI TS 138.141. It is assumed that the O- RU manufacturer will support at least one in that table. For the case of long preambles, it is assumed format 0 is always supported since this is the only one shown in the Table A.6-1 ETSI TS 138.141. C. Test Methodology a: Initial Conditions Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M- Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna port and configure the source to transmit the required PRACH test signal upon receiving a trigger signal from the CUSM-E. Implicit in this Initial set up is statically configuring O-RU with a section of time/frequency resources for static PRACH signals. b: Procedure
- Set signal generator power by the following method:
a. Select SNR from the scenario with two RX antennas and AWGN propagation condition in Table 8.4.1.5-1, 8.4.1.5-2 or 8.4.1.5-3 ETSI TS 138.141-1 depending on the selected SCS and PRACH format. b. Select the AWGN power level according to the configured SCS and channel bandwidth in Table 8.4.1.4.2-1 ETSI TS 138.141-1 and 38.141-1and multiply by the PRACH signal bandwidth. c. The output power will be given by the formula (SNR+Noise power – 3dB) rounded to the first decimal digit. Extra 3dB are to compensate that SNR and noise power are selected from the two RX ports test case and this test procedure requires only one O-RU port. For example, for the FR1 – SCS=30 kHz – BW=100MHz – Format A3 SNR is -13.5dB and noise level is -70.1dBm/98.28MHz. signal generator power = -13.5dB -70.1dBm/98.28MHz*(139*30 kHz)-3dB =- 19.5dBm.
- Set signal generator frequency offset to the central carrier frequency. PRACH will be mapped over
frequency according to msg1-FrequencyStart (nstart ) parameter equal to 0. PRACH format is set according RA to what TER has selected from the manufacturer declarations.
- Start PRACH waveform generation on the signal generator. Ensure the test frame is repeated enough times
to generate a statistically significant number of PRACH occasions. That is at least 10 occasions.
- TER will perform PRACH detection per each PRACH occasion in each frame sent and compare the result
with the expected preamble ID and the expected timing offset. Since the external AWGN and fading generator are not present the time error tolerance should be low, TER will use the time error tolerance in counter of successful detections is incremented at every matching. The probability of detection is given by the ratio between that counter and the number of the expected received PRACH occasions within the test time.
- Repeat the test procedure by setting msg1-FrequencyStart
(nstart ) parameter to the right edge of the RA configured carrier bandwidth in order to exercise a different frequency offset number D. Test Requirement (expected result) a. Test is pass if the probability of detection is 100% determined across the minimum amount of at least 10 occasions.

##### 3.2.6.1.12 UC Plane O-RU Scenario Class Extended using section extension 13 for frequency hopping UL/DL – Resource Allocation
A. Test Description and Applicability This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The purpose of this test is to validate the capability of the O-RU to correctly interpret section extension 13, frequency hopping, for the uplink. Note, since frequency hopping is only used in uplink in 5G NR this test will be limited to the uplink slots of the basic TDD signal. Using the standard TDD test frame described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4 for FR2 the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) will generate C-Plane and U-Plane messages that require the O-RU to transmit on the downlink and uplink the specified signal using section extension 13 in just the uplink downlink. The downlink portion of the test is not part of this test and may be any signal or no downlink signal at all. In this test stock data section definition C will be used to exercise the non-contiguous RB allocation, all 273 PRBs (48 of the 51 in the uplink slots) or the max number of PRBs per symbol for the highest numerology the radio supports will be used in this test. Only one spatial stream on one antenna will be used. This test is applicable for Category A and Category B radios (No precoding is required). All uplink user data will be a PN23 sequence. B. Test Entrance Criteria The O-RU must support the default parameters in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4 for FR2 of this document. The test numerology will be 30 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth as described in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 and 120 kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz bandwidth as described in clause 3.2.1.1.4 for FR2. It will be for 5G New Radio only. The radio must have conducted antenna ports (FR1) or TAB connectors. The radio must support section extension 13 as notified by the M-Plane. The signal analyser must have the ability to decode the downlink shared channel. C. Test Methodology a. Initial Conditions Configure the O-RU which includes collecting O-RU capabilities, configuring the O-RU for operation using M-Plane commands, and synchronizing the O-RU using G.8275.1. Connect the signal analyser to the O-RU antenna port and configure the analyser with any set-up information needed to allow it to synch and demodulate the transmitted signal. Connect the signal source to the O-RU antenna port and configure it as described below. b. Procedure Build an appropriate IQ signal as described above in clause 3.2.1.1.3 for FR1 or 3.2.1.1.4 for FR2 in the CUSM emulator. In this case use a PN23 sequence for the downlink shared channel. Build the appropriate test frame (uplink slots) for the signal source. Use the CUSM emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane messages that describe the uplink and downlink signals. Every symbol used in the test should be described by a single section (DL-SCH that are used for the test, DMRS and DCI) using Section Type 1 messages. No Section Type zero messages will be used for this test. Encapsulate the IQ data in U- Plane messages for downlink slots only. Play those messages to the O-RU respecting timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. Repeat the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the test frame. It will be the responsibility of the TER’s signal analyser and source to coordinate downlink and uplink TDD transmissions. The CUSM Emulator of the TER is responsible for receiving uplink U-Plane messages, extracting IQ and decoding it to bits which can be compared to those sent by the signal source. For the downlink slots and symbols: Any signal may be used if needed by the TER or no downlink signal may be used. For the uplink sections and symbols: Load uplink test waveform (G-FR1-A1-5: SCS30k_51RB for FR1 or G-FR2-A3-1: SCS120k_66RB for FR2) on the RF signal source. Note this signal should contain a new PN23 sequence as user data in PRBs 0 through 50 for symbol 6 and PRBs 100 through 151 for symbol 7. This will be copied for all uplink slots. The remainder of the test waveform is as described in 3GPP. Configure signal source to play test waveforms on 10ms frame boundaries starting when it receives a trigger signal from the O-DU emulator that C-Plane messages have been sent. Load a C-Plane message on Test Equipment O-RU (TER) – Use the O-DU emulator control interface to build the appropriate C-Plane message that describes this uplink signal. This section should have startSymbolId = 6, numPrbc = 51, and section extension 13 attached. The section extension should have nextSymbolId = 7 and nextStartPrbc = 100. Steps:
- Arm Test Equipment O-RU (TER) to capture DUT fronthaul Messages
- Launch test to play the C-Plane messages and the downlink U-Plane messages (if needed) and
trigger the source to play the RF signal on a frame boundary.
- Play messages to the O-RU respecting the timing windows described in clause 3.2.1.1.1. Repeat
the entire frame the number of times required to synch the signal analyser and allow it to demodulate and decode the frame.
- Record U-Plane messages from DUT for a complete frame and the eAxC corresponding to the
Antenna port
- Extract IQ information from the captured U-Plane messages
- Extract IQ information from the signal analyser for downlink slots (if needed)
- Extract Payload for both signals
- Compare payload binary sequences
D. Test Requirement (expected result) 1. The signal extracted by the U-Plane messages (uplink) should satisfy a basic 3GPP signal performance requirement for this radio category (i.e. EVM). 2. The verdict is “Test pass” if the test frame received by the signal analyser contains two U-Plane messages for this section ID one containing the PN23 sequence for the first 51 PRBs in symbol 6 and PRBs 100 through 151 for symbol #7 containing the PN23 sequence sent by the signal source for those PRBs.

#### 3.2.6.2 UC-Plane O-RU Scenario Class Beamforming (BFM)
This clause describes the beamforming conformance testing for O-RAN fronthaul interface. The tests do not aim to test the O-RU beamforming performance or capabilities but to test that the O-RU under test focuses the RF energy or sensitivity into a specific direction and with a specific granularity following the O-DU emulator (i.e. O-RAN interface of the TER described in clause 2.1) C-Plane messages. Unless stated otherwise in a test case, the following statements apply to all the test cases defined in this clause:
- It is based on Over-the-Air (OTA) testing with a setup such as described in clause 2.1 and it may be applied to
any O-RU DUTs, whether the O-RU DUTs have conducted antenna ports or TAB connectors or not.
- Clause 3.2.1.1.2 for scenario #2 non-conducted OTA FDD FR1 radios contains a description of test setups, as
mentioned by ETSI TS 137.843 defines various radiated test systems. If not explicitly mentioned, scenario #4 non-conducted OTA TDD tests for FR1 and FR2 radios will inherit those descriptions.
- Additional statements as per clause 3.2.3.2 of the present specification regarding applicability for O-RU
Categories, LTE/5G New Radio, Analog Beamforming, Digital Beamforming, and multiple polarizations.
- For an O-RU DUT that support LTE:
o Downlink tests will use a standard 3GPP E-TM1.1 test frame for TDD, based on uplink/downlink configuration 3 and special subframe configuration 8 (clause 6.1.1.1 ETSI TS 136.141) with 20MHz bandwidth (100 RB) as shown in Figure 3.2.6.2-1. If 20MHz is not supported by the O-RU DUT, then it will use the highest bandwidth supported by the O- RU DUT. o Uplink test will use a standard 3GPP UL RMC Configuration definition for TDD (TS36.521-1 Annex A.2.3) and power levels at least 30dB above Reference Sensitivity power level with 20MHz bandwidth (100 RB) as shown in Figure 3.2.6.2-2. o If 20MHz is not supported by the O-RU DUT, then it will use the highest bandwidth supported by the O- RU DUT.
- For O-RU DUT that support 5G NR:
o NR FR1 test models described in ETSI TS 138.141-1 are also applicable for BS type 1-O conformance testing. FR1 TDD downlink tests will use a standard 3GPP NR-FR1-TM1.1 test frame for TDD. o FR2 TDD downlink tests will use a standard 3GPP NR-FR2-TM1.1 test frame for TDD in (clause

### 4.9.2 ETSI TS 138.141-2) of the Radiated Transmitter Characteristic Test (clause 6 ETSI TS
138.141-2) as described in clause 3.2.1.1. The test numerology will be preferably 120kHz subcarrier spacing and 100 MHz Bandwidth, or lower depending on DUT capability. If not supported, then it will use any other supported subcarrier spacing and the highest bandwidth of the O-RU DUT. o NR FR1 test models described in ETSI TS 138.141-1 are also applicable for BS type 1-O conformance testing. FR1 TDD uplink tests will use a standard 3GPP G-FR1_A1-5_SCS30kHz_51RB test frame for TDD. o FR2 TDD uplink tests will use a standard 3GPP Reference Sensitivity level definition (clause 7.2 and


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG4.TS.CUS.0-R004-v19.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG4.TS.CUS.0-R004-v19.00 Technical Specification Control, User and Synchronization Plane Specification"
---


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG4.TS.IOT.0-R004-v13.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG4.TS.IOT.0-R004-v13.00"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1].

- **C-Plane**: Control Plane: refers specifically to real-time control between O-DU and O-RU, and should not be confused with the UE’s control plane
- **Customized IOT Configuration**: A set of IOT parameters not matching any specific IOT Profile Test Configuration that may be defined by anyone wanting to execute an interoperability test defined in this specification but instead using a custom set of test parameters
- **DL**: DownLink: data flow towards the radiating antenna
- **Delay Set**: Collection of timing values specific to one (or more) beamforming methods. A Delay Set (DS) can include all or part of the timing values of a beamforming method
- **eNB**: eNodeB (applies to LTE) <E-UTRAN NodeB / Evolved NodeB>
- **fm-pm**: Fault Management, Performance Management role
- **gNB**: gNodeB (applies to NR) <Next Generation NodeB>
- **IOT Profile**: A high-level interoperability test configuration definition under which multiple more-detailed IOT Profile Test Configurations may fit, allowing the grouping of test cases in broad categories
- **IOT Profile Test Configuration**: An interoperability test configuration defined within this specification that includes detailed parameter values that are representative of typical deployment cases, such that the results of interoperability tests using such a configuration may guide an understanding of the ability of a multi-vendor deployment to interoperate
- **M-Plane**: Management Plane: refers to non-real-time management operations between the O-DU and the O-RU
- **NETCONF**: Network Configuration Protocol. For details see RFC 6241, “Network Configuration Protocol (NETCONF)”, IETF, June 2011
- **NMS**: A Network Management System dedicated to O-RU operations
- **nms**: NMS role
- **NOT REQ**: No requirement on the O-DU or O-RU as an entry criterion for IOT testing for a given functionality. The O-DU may support the functionality. The O-RU may support the functionality. See Table A.1-1
- **NSA**: Non-Stand-Alone network mode that supports operation of SgNB attached to MeNB
- **O-CU**: O-RAN Central Unit – a logical node hosting PDCP, RRC, SDAP and other control functions
- **O-DU**: O-RAN Distributed Unit: a logical node hosting RLC/MAC/High-PHY layers based on a lower layer functional split. O-DU in addition hosts an M-Plane instance
- **O-RU**: O-RAN Radio Unit <O-RAN Radio Unit: a logical node hosting Low-PHY layer and RF processing based on a lower layer functional split. This is similar to 3GPP’s “TRP” or “RRH” but more specific in including the Low-PHY layer (FFT/iFFT, PRACH extraction).>. O-RU in addition hosts M-Plane instance
- **O-RU REQ**: The O-RU supports the functionality as an entry criterion for IOT testing. The O-DU may support the functionality. See Table A.1-1
- **PLFS**: Physical Layer Frequency Support, as per ITU-T G.8271.1. SyncE is one example
- **PTP**: Precision Time Protocol (PTP) is a protocol for distributing precise time and frequency over packet networks. PTP is specified in the IEEE Standard 1588
- **PDCCH**: Physical Downlink Control Channel applies for LTE and NR air interface
- **PBCH**: Physical Broadcast Channel applies for LTE and NR air interface
- **REQ**: The O-DU and O-RU support the functionality as an entry criterion for IOT testing. See Table A.1-1
- **SA**: Stand-Alone network mode that supports operation of gNB attached to a 5G Core Network
- **SCS**: OFDM Sub Carrier Spacing
- **SSH**: Secure Shell protocol for remote login
- **SSB**: Synchronization Signal Block, in 5G PBCH and synchronization signal are packaged as a single block
- **sudo**: Super-User Do role
- **subordinate**: The term “subordinate” is used as a replacement for “slave” and is consistent with its use in O-RAN WG4 CUS Specification [2]. When consensus emerges on how to eliminate the use of the term “slave” in the referenced standards organization, that approach will be applied to this specification
- **swm**: Software fault management role
- **S-Plane**: Synchronization Plane: Data flow for synchronization and timing information between nodes
- **SyncE**: Synchronous Ethernet, is an ITU-T standard for computer networking that facilitates distribution of clock signals over the Ethernet physical layer
- **T-BC**: Telecom Boundary Clock
- **TLS**: Transport Layer Security protocol
- **TWAMP**: Two-Way Active Measurement Protocol
- **UDP**: User Datagram Protocol
- **UE**: User Equipment terminology for a mobile device in LTE and NR
- **UL**: UpLink: data flow from the UE towards the core network, that is from the O-RU towards in the O-DU in a Fronthaul context
- **U-Plane**: User Plane: refers to IQ sample data transferred between O-DU and O-RU

## 3.2 Abbreviations

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1].

- **5GS**: 5G System, comprises the access network, core network and user equipment
- **ARFCN**: Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
- **BFN**: Beamforming network
- **CC**: Component Carrier
- **CN**: Core Network
- **C/U-Plane**: C-Plane and U-Plane
- **DHCP**: Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol
- **DL**: DownLink
- **DS**: Delay Set
- **DUT**: Device Under Test
- **eNB**: eNodeB
- **EARFCN**: E-UTRA ARFCN
- **EVM**: Error Vector Magnitude
- **FH**: Fronthaul
- **GSCN**: Global Synchronization Channel Number
- **gNB**: gNodeB
- **MeNB**: Master eNB
- **MIMO**: Multiple Input Multiple Output
- **M-MIMO**: Massive MIMO
- **mMIMO**: M-MIMO
- **NETCONF**: Network Configuration Protocol
- **NMS**: Network Management System
- **NSA**: Non-Stand-Alone
- **O-CU**: O-RAN Central Unit
- **O-DU**: O-RAN Distributed Unit
- **O-RU**: O-RAN Radio Unit
- **OTA**: Over the Air
- **PBCH**: Physical Broadcast Channel
- **PCI**: Physical Cell Identity
- **PRTC**: Primary Reference Time Clock
- **PTC**: Profile Test Configuration
- **RF**: Radio Frequency
- **RSRP**: Reference Signal Received Power
- **SA**: Stand-Alone
- **SCS**: Sub Carrier Spacing
- **SDAP**: Service Data Adaptation Protocol
- **SgNB**: Secondary gNB
- **SSB**: Synchronization Signal Block
- **UE**: User Equipment
- **UL**: UpLink
- **U-Plane**: User Plane

# 4 Fronthaul Interoperability

## 4.1 General

O-RAN WG4 has specified and published the O-RAN FH interface specifications (CUS-Plane [2] and M-Plane [3]) with the objective to enable interoperability of O-DU and O-RU from different vendors. The aim of the present document is to further facilitate such multi-vendor IOT using the O-RAN FH interface by defining standard test configurations, IOT profiles and interoperability test cases.

It shall be possible to perform interoperability testing in a non-intrusive manner; that is, in a manner in which the network elements under test are not required to support any functionality or mode of operation beyond that required for normal operation in a telecommunication network. However, making the endpoints of the FH interface between the O-DU and O-RU visible would require definition of new interfaces which may entail caching and transport of data. Furthermore, and more importantly, operators require that the total radio system functions and performs adequately when integrating O-DU and O-RU from different vendors. Consequentially, this specification approaches interoperability testing by means of system level testing.

FH interoperability testing by way of system test involves creation of a stimulus in the O-DU to O-RU direction using an actual or emulated O-CU, potentially with CN support/emulation, and measurement of the result at the output of the O-RU in the RF domain by an actual or emulated UE together with an RF signal/spectrum analyzer as required. Likewise, in the reverse direction, the stimulus to probe the FH in the O-RU to O-DU direction is provided by an actual or emulated UE and is measured at the output of the O-DU by an actual or emulated O-CU with CN support/emulation as required.

Inasmuch as the interoperability testing by way of system test involves configuring and collecting results from the O-RU it shall be effected by means of the M-Plane FH interface. For elements that fall outside of this scope, such as the O-DU, the configuration and collection of data and status information for testing purposes may be accomplished by NMS.

Interoperability involves testing the FH interface in terms of M-Plane, S-Plane, C-Plane and U-Plane. Some aspects of these planes may be tested independently. However, some tests, such as those that require the devices to be brought into service and a call established entail simultaneous activity across multiple planes.

The status of the test can be MANDATORY, CONDITIONAL MANDATORY or OPTIONAL. Note that test that is MANDATORY is required to be performed for interoperability testing. The test that is CONDIONAL MANDATORY is only required to be performed if the specific condition(s) are met. If a test is OPTIONAL, it does not need to be included in interoperability testing but could be included if desired.

## 4.2  Summary of Test Scenarios

The following set of interoperability test cases are defined for the current version of WG4 FH IOT specification.

## 4.3  Future Enhancements

Additional test cases are under consideration for the future versions of the present document. A non-exhaustive list of candidate test cases for future versions is provided below:

## 4.4 Fronthaul M-Plane Architectural options

As described in the “O-RAN WG4 Management Plane Specification” [3], two architectural models are supported, namely a “hierarchical” and a “hybrid” model. As a general guideline the following apply,

## 4.5 Fronthaul Synchronization options

Various synchronization options have been specified in the O-RAN WG4 CUS-Plane Specification [2] (LLS-C1, LLS-C2, LLS-C3 and LLS-C4). Depending on the specific O-RAN deployment being considered, not all of them might be relevant. When testing the S-Plane, the System Integrator shall identify which of the test cases are relevant depending on the specific deployment scenarios addressed. As a general guideline the following applies:

The FH focused tests for S-Plane for the current version of this specification covers LLS-C1, LLS-C2 and LLS-C3 using the ITU-T G.8275.1 [5] profile (Full Timing Support). FH focused tests for S-Plane for LLS-C1, LLS-C2 and LLS-C3 using the ITU-T G.8275.2 [6] profile (Partial Timing Support), and LLS-C4 are not addressed in the present document.

# 5 Interoperability Measurements

## 5.1 Interoperability Standard Test Definitions

### 5.1.1  Standard Test Configurations

Interoperability testing is performed to prove that the end-to-end functionality between the O-DU and O-RU is as required by the O-RAN FH CUS-Plane [2] and M-Plane [3] specifications on which these components are based. This requires system level testing with O-DU and O-RU as an integrated system.

### 5.1.2  Device Under Test (DUT)

The case where the O-DU and O-RU are provided by different vendors is the focus of the present document, but the case where both are from the same vendor is also valid.

The O-DU and O-RU, with their interconnecting FH, is considered as the DUT. This is the same whether the O-CU and O-DU are implemented as an aggregated node, or as disaggregated nodes.

For simplicity and without prejudice the tests in the following sections are defined with reference to a disaggregated O-DU. However, the tests apply equally when the O-DU is replaced by the O-DU functionality of an aggregated O-CU/O-DU and where the Layer 2 and Layer 3 radio processing on the network side is provided by the O-CU functionality of the combined-node. Any differences to the test due to replacement of the disaggregated O-DU with an aggregated O-CU/O-DU are detailed as they arise.

The simplest test configuration involves a single O-DU and a single O-RU. In this configuration, the O-DU and O-RU are labelled as DUT1(O-DU) and DUT1(O-RU) respectively.

More advanced test configurations will involve defining the cardinality between the 1…M O-DU(s) and 1…N O-RU(s) as part of the test scenario which will determine the configuration required.

An example of such test configuration is to have a single O-DU connected to multiple N O-RUs. In this example, the O-DU is labelled as DUT1(O-DU) and the O-RU(s) are labelled as DUT1(O-RU) ... DUTN(O-RU) accordingly.

A second example is to have multiple M O-DUs connected to multiple N O-RUs. In this second example, the O-DUs are labelled as DUT1(O-DU) … DUTM(O-DU) and the O-RU(s) are labelled as DUT1(O-RU) ... DUTN(O-RU) accordingly. However, deployment scenarios where a single O-RU is managed and used by more than one O-DU is not addressed in this version of the WG4 FH IOT Specification.

External physical and or logical connection between the O-DUs and O-RUs are to be specified in the IOT profiles (eg, number of 10/25/40GE).

The IOT profile specifies a complete DL and UL configuration to be used for the DUT subject to IOT. An O-DU and an O-RU are considered interoperable under a PTC if the DUT can pass all mandatory and applicable conditional mandatory tests using the specific PTC.

Figure 5.1.2-1: The simplest DUT configuration

### 5.1.3  Network Management System (NMS)

Network Management System (NMS) is required to support M-Plane testing particularly in the Hybrid architecture model as the O-RU has logical connection with the NMS [3]. In the hierarchical model, the NMS manages the O-DU and the O-DU manages the O-RU respectively.

Figure 5.1.3-1: The relationship between DUT and NMS (hybrid mode connection to O-RU shown dashed)

External physical and or logical connection between the NMS and O-DUs and O-RUs are to be specified in the IOT profiles (eg, number of 10/25/40GE), see Annex A for details.

### 5.1.4  Testing Tools

One of the key objectives of interoperability testing is to validate the functionality of production grade DUTs. Hence it is important to ensure that the DUTs are not negatively impacted with the utilization of internal functions solely to support interoperability testing. ie, DUTs are not expected to be testing tools when deployed in production networks and therefore DUTs should not be used as testing tools during interoperability tests.

Interoperability tests are performed with a set of testing tools which are used to both apply active stimulus and as well as passive monitoring and measurements of the DUTs.

The test is applicable to deployment scenarios where the O-CU and O-DU are implemented as disaggregated nodes connected by an F1 interface and scenarios where they are implemented as an aggregated node without an accessible F1 interface.

The deployment scenario where the 4G LTE eNB is implemented as disaggregated 4G O-CU and 4G O-DU nodes connected by a W1 interface is not addressed in the present document.

Active stimulus testing tools:

Figure 5.1.4-1: Test setup when O-CU is disaggregated from O-DU (left) and when O-CU is aggregated with O-DU (right).

- Figure 5.4.1-1 illustrates the test set-up for disaggregated O-CU/O-DU and aggregated O-CU/O-DU. The beamforming network is optional, indicated by the grey box with dashed outline; it is used for beamforming IOT profiles.
Passive monitoring and measurements testing tools:

Figure 5.1.4-2: Test setup when O-CU is disaggregated from O-DU (left) and when O-CU is aggregated with O-DU (right).

Figure 5.4.1-2 illustrates the test set-up for disaggregated O-CU/O-DU and aggregated O-CU/O-DU. The beamforming network is optional, indicated by the grey box with dashed outline; it is used for beamforming IOT profiles.

### 5.1.5  Time Synchronization

All the components including the DUTs (O-DUs and O-RUs) and the Testing Tools are required to be synchronized to a common system time and master time source unless otherwise stated.

Synchronization Plane (S-Plane) configuration for the DUTs is specified in the IOT profiles (see Annex A for details).

Test tools shall be time synchronized to the master timing source with PTP.

### 5.1.6  Assumptions

In this version of the WG4 FH IOT specifications, the following assumptions apply

### 5.1.7  Specifications to be used for testing

In this version of the WG4 FH IOT specifications, the following sets of specifications and releases/versions shall be supported

### 5.1.8  Interoperability (IOT) Test Profiles

The IOT Profiles are specified in Annex A. Under each profile, one or more Profile Test Configurations is defined, which specify test entry criteria (parameter values supported) on O-DU and O-RU undergoing IOT testing.  There may be cases where the precise values of parameters in an IOT Profile Test Configuration cannot be used, perhaps due to equipment limitations or licensing rules.  For example, a tester may only be licensed to utilize 90MHz of spectrum, for which no relevant IOT Profile Test Configuration is defined.  In such a case the tester may choose to define a Customized IOT Configuration which will generally be similar to a defined IOT Profile Test Configuration but with some variations in parameter values.  For example, a tester may choose to define a Customized IOT Configuration that would fall under the “NR-TDD-FR2-CAT-A-ABF” IOT Profile but use five 100MHz component carriers, which is not defined in any of the IOT Profile Test Configurations under the “NR-TDD-FR2-CAT-A-ABF” IOT Profile.

Some IOT profiles specify multiple beamforming methods, with each beamforming method specifying different C/U-Plane timing relationships (delay values). In such cases, allowed delay values can be specified separately from the profile table. The allowed delay values are specified as Delay Sets. A Delay Set (DS) is a collection of timing values specific to one beamforming method. If a separate delay table is specified for an IOT profile enumerating allowed Delay Sets, then the IOT test entry criterion includes that the O-DU and O-RU both can be configured with at least one common Delay Set for each beamforming method specified in the IOT profile.

Normally when reporting the result of an interoperability test, the tester may cite only the IOT Profile Test Configuration name (along with the relevant version of the present document containing the IOT Profile Test Configuration definition), which can be used to understand the full test situation by consulting Annex A.  In the case of reporting the results of an interoperability test using a Customized IOT Configuration, the tester should also provide a complete list of parameter values to allow a reader to understand the full test scenario. Table A.1-2 identifies whether a particular IOT profile parameter is modifiable or forbidden in definition of a Customized IOT Configuration.

### 5.1.9  Measurements of interest

## 5.2  Standard Test Data Configurations

The test data configurations are specified as part of the IOT profiles in Annex A.

## 5.3  Standard Test Execution

Most interoperability tests will follow a standard execution plan although individual tests are expected to deviate from this in some way. By defining the standard execution plan an understanding of how tests are arranged can be gained, thereafter examining individual tests can reveal how deviations from the standard execution plan may be defined.

## 5.4  Interoperability Test Cases

As stated in the introduction, interoperability involves testing the FH interface in terms of M-Plane, S-Plane, C-Plane and U-Plane. Some aspects of these planes may be tested independently. However, some tests, such as those that require the devices to be brought into service and a call established entail simultaneous activity across multiple planes

Each interoperability test provides 1) test description and applicability, 2) the minimum requirements and prerequisites listing required testing tools as required, 3) test purpose and scope, 4) testability requirements imposed on the O-RU and O-DU, 5) test methodology with procedural description as required, 6) the test requirement and expected test result.

Failure conditions are not addressed.

The following set of IOT cases are defined in the present document.

M-Plane IOT Test

S-Plane IOT Tests

C/U-Plane IOT Tests

C/U-Plane Delay Management Test

## 5.5 Reporting and validation of used capabilities

Since the interoperability tests are designed to be non-intrusive in nature, the tests may pass without invoking a certain capability supported by O-RU and O-DU, even if the capability is indicated by the PTC as test entry criterion. See Table A.1-1 for terminology of IOT test entry requirements. It is possible that a subset of capabilities might not be exercised during a test, and it may not be clear which capability was exercised or not during a test. For C/U-plane IOT tests, the utilization of “to be reported” capabilities associated with each PTC shall be reported. This aids in understanding which capabilities of the DUT were positively tested as part of the IOT tests. Furthermore, the utilization of “to be validated” capabilities shall be validated in C/U-plane IOT tests. “To be reported” capabilities and “to be validated” capabilities are described for each C/U-plane IOT test and for some PTCs in Annex A.

If the utilization of a “to be validated” capability cannot be confirmed, then the inconclusive outcome of the test shall be documented as a “fail”. The utilization of a “to be reported” capability does not change test outcome, ie, the result of a C/U-plane test is a “pass” if the performance acceptance criteria are met, even if the utilization of one or more “to be reported” capabilities are not confirmed.

How to validate a capability is outside the scope of the present document. Examples of validation methods include analysing FH protocol logs, DUT using the capability by design or demonstrated by DUT test logs, inferring from the support declaration and enablement via M-plane, etc.

- NOTE: In the present document, “to be reported” capabilities and “to be validated” capabilities are listed only for NR TDD DMRS-BF IOT profiles and C/U-plane IOT tests.

# 6  M-Plane IOT Test

## 6.1 Overview

The M-Plane IOT test for hierarchical mode is described in Section 6.1 and the respective test for hybrid mode is described in Section 6.2. Two IOT profiles are defined for each mode, the first addressing IPv4 with SSH and the second addressing IPv6 with a choice of SSH or TLS. In this version of the specification NMS operation in hybrid mode is limited to read-only operation.

## 6.2  Start-up in hierarchical mode

### 6.2.1  Test Description and Applicability

This test case is MANDATORY.

The DUT is composed of single O-DU and single O-RU.

Test scenario refers to Chapter 6 “Start-up” in hierarchical architecture for M-Plane [3].

### 6.2.2  Minimum Requirements (Prerequisites)

Single O-DU (DUT1(O-DU)) and a single O-RU (DUT1(O-RU))

Assumptions which are required for this test scenario

Testing tools which are required for this test scenario

### 6.2.3 Test Purpose and Scope

Purpose of this test is to validate the startup sequence of O-RU and the interface to DHCP server and NETCONF client in O-DU for the start-up scenario.

The detailed steps outlined in this test case are for informational purposes and can be useful for troubleshooting purposes in the event that the test case fails. Procedures which are not encrypted can be observed with the FH Protocol Analyzer for validation of the test progress.

Notwithstanding this being an M-Plane test, correct evaluation of the success of the M-Plane operation requires also that the fronthaul C-Plane and U-Plane also be operational, at least in the DL direction.

### 6.2.4  Testability requirements imposed on O-RU and O-DU

The appropriate software runs on the O-RU and O-DU for the test purpose.

### 6.2.5  Methodology and Initial Conditions

### 6.2.6  Procedure: M-Plane start up test

#### 6.2.6.1  Step: Transport layer initialization

#### 6.2.6.2  Step: RU calls home to NETCONF client (TCP connection establishment)

#### 6.2.6.3  Step: SSH/TLS Secure connection establishment

#### 6.2.6.4  Step: NETCONF Capability discovery

#### 6.2.6.5  Step: Optional provisioning of new management accounts

Note: this step is intentionally omitted as pre-provisioned O-RU is expected for IOT (meaning: no need to perform optional step and configure supplementary management accounts).

#### 6.2.6.6  Step: Initial process of NETCONF Subscribe for each stream

#### 6.2.6.7  Step: Supervision of NETCONF connection

Note: in above sequence following timers shall be respected: “supervision-notification-interval”, “guard-timer-overhead” sent as parameters in RPC supervision-watchdog-reset (O-DU -> O-RU) and “next-update-at” sent as parameter in RPC reply (O-RU -> O-DU).

#### 6.2.6.8  Step: Retrieval of O-RU information and Additional configuration

#### 6.2.6.9  Step: Software management

#### 6.2.6.10  Step: C/U-Plane transport connectivity check between O-DU and O-RU

#### 6.2.6.11  Step: U-Plane configuration between O-DU and O-RU

#### 6.2.6.12  Step: Fault Management activation

#### 6.2.6.13  Step: Performance measurement activation (if required at start-up timing)

Note: Step for Retrieval of O-RU information may cover the configuration of o-ran-performance-management.yang if it is required at start-up installation timing.

#### 6.2.6.14  Step: Retrieval of O-RU state, including synchronization information, from O-RU

If O-DU already knows at the moment this step is going to be performed (eg, from notification “synchronization-state-change”), that “sync-state” of O-RU is ‘LOCKED’, O-DU may skip this step.

S-Plane has to be operational.

#### 6.2.6.15  Step: Configuring the O-RU operational parameters: carrier activation

S-Plane has to be operational (sync-state != FREERUN, preferable sync-state = LOCKED) prior to running this step

Note: C/U-Plane service is available at this step.

### 6.2.7  Test Requirement (expected result)

Observe that both the O-DU and O-RU get in service successfully by monitoring correct transmission of synchronization signals and broadcast channel (ie, PSS/SSS and PBCH for LTE and SSB for NR).

Record downlink carrier frequency (EARFCN for LTE as specified in 3GPP TS 36.104 [12] and GSCN/NR-ARFCN for NR as specified in 3GPP TS 38.104 [13]), cell (PCI for LTE and for NR as specified in 3GPP TS 36.211 [14] and TS 38.211 [15], respectively) and system information (MIB for LTE and NR as specified in 3GPP TS 36.331 [16] and TS 38.331 [17], respectively). In case that beam sweeping is applied to SSB, system information should be recorded for each of the SSB indices detected.

The parameter values for downlink carrier frequency, cell, system information and SSB indices are part of the radio test setup configuration. This test is considered successful if the recorded measurements values match up with the values which are used for the radio test setup configuration.

### 6.2.8  Test Report (Failure)

If the test case fails, vendor specific methods will be relied on to assist with troubleshooting the root cause(s) which led to the failure. The steps outlined in this test case can be used to guide the troubleshooting process.

## 6.3  Start-up in hybrid mode

### 6.3.1  Test Description and Applicability

This test case is conditional MANDATORY. The condition is, the O-DU supports hybrid M-Plane deployment.

The DUT is composed of single O-DU, a single O-RU and a single NMS.

Test scenario refers to Chapter 5.1.2 “M-Plane Architectural Model” and Chapter 6 “Start-up” in hybrid architecture for M-Plane [3]. As per M-Plane Chapter 5.1.2, all compliant O-RUs shall be able to support both hierarchical and hybrid deployment. If the O-DU supports hybrid M-Plane deployment, the testing of hybrid use case shall therefore include being able to demonstrate that an O-RU is able to support simultaneous NETCONF sessions to the O-DU and NMS. In order to ensure limited impacts to the baseline hierarchical O-DU to NMS configuration management tasks, in this test the second NETCONF client associated with “nms” user privileges is limited to demonstrating that it is able to retrieve the configuration and operational state from an O-RU which has been configured by an O-DU.

### 6.3.2  Minimum Requirements (Prerequisites)

Single O-DU (DUT1(O-DU)), a single O-RU (DUT1(O-RU)) and a single NMS (DUT1(NMS).

Assumptions which are required for this test scenario

Testing tools which are required for this test scenario

### 6.3.3  Test Purpose and Scope

Purpose of this test is to validate the startup sequence of O-RU and the interface to DHCP server and NETCONF clients in the O-DU and NMS for the start-up scenario. As described in [3], all O-RUs supporting the M-Plane specification shall support multiple NETCONF sessions, and hence all compliant O-RUs shall be able to support both hierarchical and hybrid deployment.

The detailed steps outlined in this test case are for informational purposes and can be useful for troubleshooting purposes in the event that the test case fails. Procedures which are not encrypted can be observed with the FH Protocol Analyzer for validation of the test progress.

Notwithstanding this being an M-Plane test, correct evaluation of the success of the M-Plane operation requires also that the fronthaul C-Plane and U-Plane also be operational, at least in the DL direction.

### 6.3.4  Testability requirements imposed on O-RU, O-DU and NMS

The appropriate software runs on the O-RU, O-DU and NMS for the test purpose.

### 6.3.5  Methodology and Initial Conditions

### 6.3.6  Procedure: M-Plane start up test

#### 6.3.6.1  Step: Transport layer initialization

#### 6.3.6.2  Step: RU calls home to discovered NETCONF client (TCP connection establishment)

#### 6.3.6.3  Step: SSH/TLS Secure connection establishment

#### 6.3.6.4  Step: NETCONF Capability discovery

#### 6.3.6.5  Step: Optional provisioning of new management accounts

Note: this step is intentionally omitted as pre-provisioned O-RU is expected for IOT (meaning: no need to perform optional step and configure supplementary management accounts).

#### 6.3.6.6  Step: Initial process of NETCONF Subscribe for each stream

Note: subsequent steps use the NMS to retrieve the configuration and operational state of the O-RU and are performed after step 6.2.6.7 through 6.2.6.15 that complete O-RU start-up.

#### 6.3.6.7  Step: NMS retrieval of O-RU information and Additional configuration

ietf-hardware augmented by o-ran-hardware

ietf-interface augmented by o-ran-interfaces

o-ran-operations

o-ran-transceiver

o-ran-sync

o-ran-mplane-int

o-ran-lbm

o-ran-performance-management

o-ran-delay-management

o-ran-module-cap

o-ran-uplane-conf

o-ran-alarm-id

o-ran-fan

### 6.3.7  Test Requirement (expected result)

Observe that the O-RU calls home to both the O-DU and NMS and then is able to establish simultaneous NETCONF sessions between the O-RU and O-DU and between the O-RU and NMS.

Observe that the NMS is able to retrieve configuration and operational state from models to which it does have NACM read privileges.

### 6.3.8  Test Report (Failure)

If the test case fails, vendor specific methods will be relied on to assist with troubleshooting the root cause(s) which led to the failure. The steps outlined in this test case can be used to guide the troubleshooting process.

### 6.3.9  Supplementary test: NETCONF Access Control (Failure)

This is a supplementary test to verify correct handling of NMS read attempt with incorrect privilege per 6.2.6.8.

Expected result is to that an O-RU will deny access to an NMS that tries to read configuration and/or operational state from models to which it does not have NACM privileges.

If the test case fails, that is access is granted, vendor specific methods will be relied on to assist with troubleshooting the root cause(s) which led to the failure.

# 7  S-Plane IOT Test

## 7.1 Overview

This Section describes system level tests that are used to validate both S-Plane functionality and S-Plane performance between O-DU and O-RU from different vendors connected using the O-RAN WG4 FH interface specified in [2] and the O-RAN WG4 M-Plane interface specified in [3].

S-Plane functionality is determined by retrieval of the O-DU and O-RU synchronization state using the M-Plane or NMS as appropriate, whereas, S-Plane performance is determined by over-the-air (OTA) measurements or conductive (ie, a cabled electrical connection to the DUT’s radio interface) measurements of O-RU synchronization signal.

This Section provides a common high-level list of the items that are expected to be covered in order to validate interoperability with the relevant standard, both functional and performance aspects are addressed:

At least one of the synchronization options (LLS-C1, LLS-C2, LLS-C3 or LLS-C4), depending on the relevant O-RAN deployment as described in Clause 4.5, shall be tested for functionality and performance.

Figure 7.1-1: Test setup for lls-C1

## 7.2 Functional test of O-DU + O-RU using ITU-T G.8275.1 profile (LLS-C1)

### 7.2.1  Test Description and Applicability

### 7.2.2  Minimum Requirements (Prerequisites)

### 7.2.3  Purpose and Scope

The O-RU is synchronizing from the O-DU with the ITU-T G.8275.1 [5] profile. This test case validates the correct synchronization status of the O-RU.

### 7.2.4  Testability Requirements imposed on O-RU and O-DU

### 7.2.5  Test Methodology

The O-DU acts as a PTP master compliant with the ITU-T G.8275.1 [5] profile.

Three conditions shall be covered:

#### 7.2.5.1  Procedure: Startup conditions

#### 7.2.5.2  Procedure: Nominal conditions

#### 7.2.5.3  Procedure: Degraded conditions

### 7.2.6  Test Requirements (expected results)

#### 7.2.6.1  Startup conditions

#### 7.2.6.2  Nominal conditions

#### 7.2.6.3  Degraded conditions

## 7.3 Functional test of O-DU + bridged network + O-RU using ITU-T G.8275.1 profile (LLS-C2)

### 7.3.1  Test Description and Applicability

### 7.3.2  Minimum Requirements (Prerequisites)

### 7.3.3  Purpose and Scope

### 7.3.4  Testability Requirements imposed on O-RU and O-DU

### 7.3.5  Test Methodology

#### 7.3.5.1  Procedure: Startup conditions

#### 7.3.5.2  Procedure: Nominal conditions

#### 7.3.5.3  Procedure: Degraded conditions

### 7.3.6  Test Requirements (expected results)

#### 7.3.6.1 Startup conditions

#### 7.3.6.2  Nominal conditions

#### 7.3.6.3  Degraded conditions

## 7.4 Functional test of O-DU + bridged network + O-RU using ITU-T G.8275.1 profile (LLS-C3)

### 7.4.1  Test Description and Applicability

### 7.4.2  Minimum Requirements (Prerequisites)

### 7.4.3  Purpose and Scope

### 7.4.4  Testability Requirements imposed on O-RU, O-DU and bridged network

### 7.4.5  Test Methodology

Three conditions shall be covered:

#### 7.4.5.1  Procedure: Startup conditions

#### 7.4.5.2  Procedure: Nominal conditions

#### 7.4.5.3  Procedure: Degraded conditions

### 7.4.6  Test Requirements (expected results)

#### 7.4.6.1  Startup conditions

#### 7.4.6.2  Nominal conditions

#### 7.4.6.3  Degraded conditions

## 7.5 Functional test of O-DU + O-RU using ITU-T G.8275.2 profile (LLS-C1)

## 7.6 Functional test of O-DU + bridged network + O-RU using ITU-T G.8275.2 profile (LLS-C2)

## 7.7 Functional test of O-DU + bridged network + O-RU using ITU-T G.8275.2 profile (LLS-C3)

## 7.8 Functional test of O-DU + bridged network + O-RU (LLS-C4)

This test case is not addressed in the present document.

## 7.9 Performance test of O-DU + Two O-RUs using ITU-T G.8275.1 profile (LLS-C1)

### 7.9.1  Test Description and applicability

This test case is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU and O-DU declare support of LLS-C1 synchronization option (see Clause 4.5).

This test validates that the two O-RUs meet the 3GPP limits at their air interface, when

### 7.9.2  Minimum Requirements (Prerequisites)

### 7.9.3  Purpose and scope

The O-DU synchronize the O-RUs with the ITU-T G.8275.1 profile [5]. This test validates that the frequency and time error on the O-RU air interfaces are within the limits of the 3GPP, in both constant and variable temperature and traffic load conditions.

Only LOCKED state is tested; HOLDOVER state test is not addressed in the present document.

### 7.9.4 Testability Requirements imposed on O-RU and O-DU

Synchronization requirement: O-DU and test equipment is connected to a local PRTC or source traceable to PRTC.

Test 7.2.6.2 is successfully passed and both O-DU and O-RUs report LOCKED status.

### 7.9.5 Test Methodology

After O-DU and O-RUs are frequency and phase locked to their PRTC synchronization source using the LLS-C1 configuration, the frequency and phase errors are measured on the O-RUs air interface using a test equipment referenced to the same PRTC.

The O-DU input time error on the O-DU is as specified in the Conformance Test Specification [24],

Either “ideal” with zero value

Or “normal”, with configured values with standard masks

### 7.9.6  Test Requirement (expected result)

For both constant and variable conditions tests, the acceptance criterion is to measure with the test equipment:

## 7.10 Performance test of O-DU + bridged network + Two O-RUs using ITU-T G.8275.1 profile (LLS-C2)

### 7.10.1  Test Description and applicability

### 7.10.2  Minimum Requirements (Prerequisites)

### 7.10.3  Purpose and Scope

The O-DU synchronizes the O-RUs with the ITU-T G.8275.1 [5] profile via the bridged network elements.

This test validates that the frequency and time error on the O-RU air interfaces are within the limits of the 3GPP, in both constant and variable temperature and traffic load conditions.

Only LOCKED state is tested; HOLDOVER state test is not addressed in the present document.

### 7.10.4 Testability Requirements imposed on O-RU and O-DU

Synchronization requirement: O-DU and test equipment is connected to a local PRTC or source traceable to PRTC.

Test  7.3.6.2 is successfully passed and both O-DU and O-RUs report LOCKED status.

### 7.10.5 Test Methodology

After O-DU and O-RUs are frequency and phase locked to their PRTC synchronization source using the LLS-C2 configuration, the frequency and phase errors are measured on the O-RUs air interface using a test equipment referenced to the same PRTC.

The O-DU input time error on the O-DU is as specified in the Conformance Test Specification [24],

Either “ideal” with zero value

Or “normal”, with configured values with standard masks

### 7.10.6  Test Requirement (expected result)

For both constant and variable conditions tests, the acceptance criterion is to measure with the test equipment:

## 7.11 Performance test of O-DU + bridged network + Two O-RUs using ITU-T G.8275.1 profile (LLS-C3)

### 7.11.1  Test Description and applicability

This test case is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU and O-DU declare support of LLS-C3 synchronization option (see Clause 4.5).

This test validates that the two O-RUs are meeting the 3GPP limits at their air interface, and the O-DU is meeting time error limits specified in O-RAN WG4 CUS Specification [2] when

### 7.11.2  Minimum Requirements (Prerequisites)

### 7.11.3  Purpose and scope

The FH network synchronizes all O-DU and O-RUs with the ITU-T G.8275.1 [5] profile via the bridged network elements.

This test validates that the frequency and time error on the O-RU air interfaces and O-DU are within the limits of the 3GPP, in both constant and variable temperature and traffic load conditions.

Only LOCKED state is tested; HOLDOVER state test is not addressed in the present document.

### 7.11.4 Testability Requirements imposed on O-RU and O-DU

Synchronization requirement: FH network and test equipment is connected to a local PRTC or source traceable to PRTC.

Test 7.4.6.2 is successfully passed and both O-DU and O-RUs report LOCKED status.

### 7.11.5 Test Methodology

After O-DU and O-RUs are frequency and phase locked to their PRTC synchronization source using the LLS-C3 configuration, the frequency and phase errors are measured at the O-RUs air interface using a test equipment referenced to the same PRTC.

The PRTC output time error on the O-DU is as specified in the Conformance Test Specification  [24],

Either “ideal” with zero value

Or “normal”, with configured values with standard masks

### 7.11.6 Test Requirement (expected result)

For both constant and variable conditions tests, the acceptance criterion is to measure with the test equipment:

## 7.12 Performance test of O-DU + Two O-RUs using ITU-T G.8275.2 profile (LLS-C1)

## 7.13 Performance test of O-DU + bridged network + Two O-RUs using ITU-T G.8275.2 profile ((LLS-C2)

## 7.14 Performance test of O-DU + bridged network + Two O-RUs using ITU-T G.8275.2 profile (LLS-C3)

## 7.15 Performance test of O-DU + bridged network + Two O-RUs (LLS-C4)

# 8  C/U-Plane IOT Test

## 8.1  Overview

C/U-Plane IOT tests are used to validate the performance of DUT and interoperability of O-DU and O-RU from different vendors using O-RAN specified or customized IOT profile test configuration(s). IOT profiles and associated PTCs to be tested are selected by the participating vendors. Not all PTCs within a profile are required to be tested. See Annex A for details on the IOT profiles and PTCs.

The test environment should be arranged to match the expectations of the test eg, provide a noise-free channel and a traffic demand matching the intent of the test.

An O-DU and O-RU are considered interoperable under a profile test configuration (PTC) if the DUT can pass all mandatory and applicable conditional mandatory tests using that PTC, such passing being subject to the DUT using “to be validated” capabilities that may be listed in that PTC. The usage of such capabilities need not be continuous, eg, neither in every section description nor in every slot. The exact means to validate the usage of such capabilities is out of scope of the present document. Exemplary means include,

- a.	Proprietary capability of the DUT, eg, a special test port or test log readout
- b.	O-RAN FH protocol analysis, including that data packets are sent to appropriately configured endpoints
The PTC may also contain a list of “to be reported” capabilities. The usage, or absence of usage, of these capabilities shall be reported in the test report. The usage of these capabilities is not required to pass the test. The means of determination of the usage of these capabilities is out of the scope of the present document

It is expected that the DUT is capable of meeting each test and PTC requirement. The exact means to achieve this is out of scope of the present document. Exemplary means include,

- a.	By design of the DUT
- b.	Proprietary capability of the DUT such as a special configuration mechanism

## 8.2  Radio Layer 3 C-Plane establishment and Initial Radio U-Plane data transfer

### 8.2.1  Test Description and Applicability

This test case is MANDATORY.

This is a Radio system level test which is used to validate the radio system functionalities, performance and multi-vendor interoperability of the O-DU and O-RU from different vendors connected using the O-RAN WG4 specified FH interface [2], [3].

This test validates if a UE can perform Radio Layer 3 C-Plane establishment and initial Radio U-Plane data transfer procedures with the network which includes the O-DU and O-RU as an integrated system under test in this test setup.

Although there is no FH focused testing for C/U-Plane in this test, it is still possible to observe successful interoperability via positive test outcomes for this test. ie, if radio system level test passes, it can be inferred that O-RAN WG4 specified FH interface C/U-Plane is successfully working.

The DUT shall comprise a single O-DU (DUT1(O-DU)) and a single O-RU (DUT1(O-RU)).

### 8.2.2  Minimum Requirements (Prerequisites)

Single O-DU (DUT1(O-DU)) and a single O-RU (DUT1(O-RU))

Testing tools which are required for this test scenario

Testing tools which can be useful for this test scenario particularly for validating that the DUTs are configured and operating correctly during the test, troubleshooting and detailed validation purposes

### 8.2.3  Test Purpose and Scope

Purpose of this test is to validate key radio operation after M-Plane startup, ie, Radio Layer 3 C-Plane establishment and initial Radio U-Plane data transfer on system level with integration of O-DU and O-RU from different vendors.

Note that this test requires both Downlink and Uplink Radio Layer 3 C-Plane message. This means that this test also validates both transfer of Downlink and Uplink FH U-Plane message and related Downlink FH C-Plane messages.

### 8.2.4  Testability requirements imposed on O-RU and O-DU

Nominal software runs on the O-RU and O-DU.

### 8.2.5  Test Methodology

#### 8.2.5.1  Initial Conditions

#### 8.2.5.2  Procedure: Nominal test

Performs Radio Layer 3 C-Plane establishment procedure using the Test UE or UE emulator. Note that Radio Layer 3 C-Plane establishment procedure depends on the 5G NR operation mode. In the case when the DUTs are operating in NSA mode, Radio Layer 3 C-Plane establishment procedure includes Attach procedure and/or service request procedure specified in 3GPP TS 23.401 [20] and EN-DC setup procedure specified in 3GPP TS 37.340 [22]. In the case when the DUTs are operating in SA mode, Radio Layer 3 C-Plane establishment procedure includes Registration procedure and service request procedure specified in 3GPP TS 23.502 [21].

Performs data transfer from the application test server to the Test UE or UE emulator. The application test server generates and transmits 10 IP packets with each packet 32 bytes in size.

Note that data transfer depends on the operation mode. In the case when the DUTs are operating in NSA mode, data transfers can be performed over Default EPS bearer using SN terminated split bearer specified in 3GPP TS 37.340 [22]. In case when the DUTs are operating in SA mode, data transfers can be performed over PDU Session and QoS flow specified in 3GPP TS 23.502 [21].

This test case does not specify the test data pattern generated by the application test server, but it is recommended that the test data pattern should include some level of randomness (ie, avoiding all zeros).

### 8.2.6  Test Requirement (expected result)

Observe the Test UE or emulated UE can perform Radio Layer 3 C-Plane establishment successfully and can perform data transfers over the network particularly through the O-DU and O-RU.

Record Test UE or UE emulator logs that the Radio Layer 3 (eg, RRC/NAS) message flows are per 3GPP TS 23.401 [20] Sections 5.3.4, 5.4 and 3GPP TS 37.340 [22] in NSA mode and 3GPP TS 23.502 [21] Sections 4.2.3, 4.3 in SA mode.

Record Test UE or UE emulator Radio U-Plane logs that the data packets transferred by application test server (ie, 10 IP packets of 32 bytes) are received correctly.

## 8.3  Radio U-Plane downlink data transfer (Downlink throughput performance)

### 8.3.1  Radio U-Plane downlink data transfer performance with one UE

#### 8.3.1.1  Test Description and Applicability

This test case is MANDATORY.

The DUT shall comprise a single O-DU (DUT1(O-DU)) and a single O-RU (DUT1(O-RU)).This scenario allows to test if a UE can perform Radio U-Plane data transfers with the network through O-DU and O-RU from different vendors.

#### 8.3.1.2  Minimum Requirements (Prerequisites)

Single O-DU (DUT1(O-DU)) and a single O-RU (DUT1(O-RU)):

Testing tools which are required for this test scenario:

Testing tools which can be useful for this test scenario particularly for validating that the DUTs are configured and operating correctly during the test, troubleshooting and detailed validation purposes:

#### 8.3.1.3  Test Purpose and Scope

Purpose of this test is to validate key radio operation after Radio Layer 3 C-Plane establishment and initial Radio U-Plane data transfer, the Radio U-Plane data transfer including throughput performance on system level with integration of O-DU and O-RU from different venders.

Note that this test requires Maximum Layer 1 Radio data rate (with some margin). This means that this test also validates transfer of Downlink FH C/U-Plane message with higher MIMO layers and higher order modulation schemes.

#### 8.3.1.4  Testability requirements imposed on O-RU and O-DU

Nominal software runs on the O-RU and O-DU.

#### 8.3.1.5  Test Methodology

##### 8.3.1.5.1 Initial Conditions

##### 8.3.1.5.2  Procedure: Nominal test

Performs downlink data transfer from application test server to the Test UE or UE emulator. The application test server generates and transmits downlink data with data size large enough to achieve the maximum Layer 1 Radio data rate, which is specified in 8.2.6, for the duration of the test. The duration of the test is 20 seconds.

Note that data transfer depends on the operation mode. In case when the DUTs are operating in NSA mode, data transfers can be performed over Default EPS bearer using SN terminated split bearer specified in 3GPP TS 37.340 [22]. In case when the DUTs are operating in SA mode, data transfers can be performed over PDU Session and QoS flow specified in 3GPP TS 23.502 [21].

This test case does not specify the test data pattern generated by the application test server, but it is recommended that the test data pattern should include some level of randomness (ie, avoiding all zeros).

#### 8.3.1.6  Test Requirement (expected result)

Observe that the Test UE or emulated UE can perform Radio U-Plane data transfers over the network particularly through the O-DU and O-RU at the target data rate.

Record the Test UE or UE emulator Radio U-Plane logs and determine that they contain measurements such as the measured Radio U-Plane data rates during the test. The acceptance criterion is that Radio U-Plane data rate on average during the test duration achieves the performance level defined as follows

Performance level

Margin is assumed in order to account for issues other than the FH. The value of Margin is 0.8.

### 8.3.2  Radio U-Plane downlink data transfer performance with two UEs

#### 8.3.2.1  Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY; the condition being the DUT supports at least two simultaneous UE data layers. Any PTC not stating a UE data layer configuration is not required to execute the test.

The DUT shall comprise a single O-DU (DUT1(O-DU)) and a single O-RU (DUT1(O-RU)).

This scenario allows to test that two UEs can simultaneously perform Radio U-Plane data transfer with the network through O-DU and O-RU from different vendors as set out below.

#### 8.3.2.2  Minimum Requirements (Prerequisites)

Single O-DU (DUT1(O-DU)) and a single O-RU (DUT1(O-RU))

- 1.	Are connected through the O-RAN FH
- 2.	Are synchronized with the common S-Plane configuration
Testing tools which are required for this test scenario:

- 1.	Two UEs, either test UEs or UE emulator capable to support two UEs, where each UE supports a single layer: used to perform Radio U-Plane data transfer with the network
- 2.	BFN able to simultaneously provide two downlink channels with different effective angle of departure for the UEs. The angle of departure and channel conditioning to provide sufficient rank of channel matrix such that each UE can respectively receive the UE layer directed to it. The BFN shall provide symmetrical uplink and downlink channels
- 3.	O-CU or O-CU emulator either as a disaggregated node or as an aggregated node with the (DUT1) O-DU. In case of disaggregated node, O-CU or O-CU emulator terminates the 3GPP 5G F1 interface with the DUT1 (O-DU)
- 4.	5G Core Network or 5G Core Network emulator: used to terminate UEs (emulator) NAS protocol
- 5.	Application test server: used to generate and terminate application layer traffic (eg UDP, TWAMP, etc) and provide application layer processing on the network side
Testing tools which can be useful for this test scenario particularly for validating that the DUTs are configured and operating correctly during the test, troubleshooting and detailed validation purposes:

- 1.	RF Spectrum and Beam Signal Analyzer: used for RF and Beam power and quality analysis ensuring that the O-RU (DUT1(O-RU)) is correctly transmitting the configured broadcast and synchronization signals on the downlink
- 2.	FH Protocol Analyzer: For protocol analysis of O-RAN FH protocols and message flows (for example to verify or report used capabilities)
Additional requirements for this test scenario:

- 1.	A means to determine that the DUT has used the capabilities declared in the “to be validated” and “to be reported” tables associated with the PTC. The exact means of determination is out of scope of the present document

#### 8.3.2.3  Test Purpose and Scope

Purpose of this test is to validate, after Radio Layer 3 C-Plane establishment and initial Radio U-Plane data transfer when 2 UEs are connected to the network according to the relevant constraints in the PTC, the Radio U-Plane data transfer including throughput performance on system level with integration of O-DU and O-RU from different vendors.

This test requires Maximum Layer 1 Radio data rate (with some margin) for successful completion. This means that this test also validates transfer of Downlink FH C/U-Plane messages with two layers, one per mobile, and higher order modulation schemes.

#### 8.3.2.4  Testability requirements imposed on O-RU and O-DU

Nominal software runs on the O-RU and O-DU.

#### 8.3.2.5  Test Methodology

##### 8.3.2.5.1 Initial Conditions

- 1.	O-RU and O-DU are both in service, ie, M-Plane start-up procedure has been completed and broadcast channels are being transmitted
- The two UEs, either test UE or UE emulator, have registered to the network, ie, Radio Layer 3 C-Plane establishment procedures are completed. Radio Layer 3 C-Plane establishment procedure includes Registration procedure and service request procedure specified in 3GPP TS 23.502 [21]

##### 8.3.2.5.2  Procedure: Nominal test

Perform downlink data transfer from the application test server on the network side to the UEs. The application test server connected to the UEs generates and transmits data with data size that, when aggregated across both UEs, is large enough to achieve the maximum Layer 1 Radio data rate, which is specified in 8.3.2.6, for the duration of the test. The duration of the test is 20 seconds.

Data transfers shall be performed over PDU Session and QoS flow specified in 3GPP TS 23.502 [21].

This test case does not specify the test data pattern generated by the application test server connected to the UEs, but it is recommended that the test data pattern should include some level of randomness (ie, avoid all zeros).

#### 8.3.2.6  Test Requirement (expected result)

Observe that both UEs perform Radio U-Plane data reception over the network through the O-DU and O-RU, with aggregated UE transfer rate achieving the target data rate.

Collect the Radio U-Plane logs of both UEs and analyze to determine each contains measurements such as the measured Radio U-Plane data rates during the test

Observe, for example by analyzing message flows over FH, that “to be validated” capabilities listed in the PTC are used and such usage is recorded in the test report.

Observe that the usage or absence of usage of the “to be reported” capabilities listed in the PTC is recorded in the test report.

The performance acceptance criterion is that for the duration of the test both UEs simultaneously receive downlink data such that the aggregated Radio U-Plane rate achieves the performance level defined as follows,

Performance level

Target data rate = Maximum Layer 1 Radio data rate * (1 – Margin),

where

[Equation 8.3.2.6-1]

If the data throughput performance achieves the necessary performance level but use of “to be validated” capabilities listed in the PTC is NOT confirmed, the inconclusive outcome of the test is marked as failure.

## 8.4  Radio U-Plane uplink data transfer (Uplink throughput performance)

### 8.4.1  Radio U-Plane uplink data transfer performance with one UE

#### 8.4.1.1  Test Description and Applicability

This test case is MANDATORY.

The DUT shall comprise a single O-DU (DUT1(O-DU)) and a single O-RU (DUT1(O-RU)).

This scenario allows to test if a UE can perform Radio U-Plane data transfers with the network through O-DU and O-RU from different vendors.

#### 8.4.1.2  Minimum Requirements (Prerequisites)

Single O-DU (DUT1(O-DU)) and a single O-RU (DUT1(O-RU))

Testing tools which are required for this test scenario

Testing tools which can be useful for this test scenario particularly for validating that the DUTs are configured and operating correctly during the test, troubleshooting and detailed validation purposes

#### 8.4.1.3  Test Purpose and Scope

Purpose of this test is to validate key radio operation after Radio Layer 3 C-Plane establishment and initial Radio U-Plane data transfer, the Radio U-Plane data transfer including throughput performance on system level with integration of O-DU and O-RU from different venders.

Note that this test requires Maximum Layer 1 Radio data rate (with some margin). This means that this test also validates transfer of Uplink FH C/U-Plane message with higher MIMO layers and higher order modulation schemes.

#### 8.4.1.4  Testability requirements imposed on O-RU and O-DU

Nominal software runs on the O-RU and O-DU.

#### 8.4.1.5  Test Methodology

##### 8.4.1.5.1 Initial Conditions

##### 8.4.1.5.2  Procedure: Nominal test

Performs uplink data transfer from the Test UE or UE emulator to application test server on the network side. Either the Test UE or UE emulator, or application test server connected with UE generates and transmits uplink data with data size large enough to achieve the maximum Layer 1 Radio data rate, which is specified in 8.3.6, for the duration of the test. The Test UE or UE emulator transmits the uplink data. The duration of the test is 20 seconds.

Note that data transfer depends on the operation mode. In case when the DUTs are operating in NSA mode, data transfers can be performed over Default EPS bearer using SN terminated split bearer specified in 3GPP TS 37.340 [22]. In case when the DUTs are operating in SA mode, data transfers can be performed over PDU Session and QoS flow specified in 3GPP TS 23.502 [21].

This test case does not specify the test data pattern generated by either the Test UE or UE emulator, or application test server connected with UE, but it is recommended that the test data pattern should include some level of randomness (ie, avoiding all zeros).

#### 8.4.1.6  Test Requirement (expected result)

Observe that the Test UE or emulated UE can perform Radio U-Plane data transfers over the network particularly through the O-DU and O-RU at the target data rate.

Record the Test UE or UE emulator Radio U-Plane logs and determine that they contain measurements such as the measured Radio U-Plane data rates during the test. The acceptance criterion is that Radio U-Plane data rate on average during the test duration achieves the performance level defined as follows

Performance level

### 8.4.2  Radio U-Plane uplink data transfer performance with two UEs

#### 8.4.2.1  Test Description and Applicability

This test is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY; the condition being the DUT supports at least two simultaneous UE data layers. Any PTC not stating a UE data layer configuration is not required to execute the test.

The DUT shall comprise a single O-DU (DUT1(O-DU)) and a single O-RU (DUT1(O-RU)).

This scenario allows to test that two UEs can simultaneously perform Radio U-Plane data transfer with the network through O-DU and O-RU from different vendors as set out below.

#### 8.4.2.2  Minimum Requirements (Prerequisites)

Single O-DU (DUT1(O-DU)) and a single O-RU (DUT1(O-RU))

- 1.	Are connected through the O-RAN FH
- 2.	Are synchronized with the common S-Plane configuration
Testing tools which are required for this test scenario:

- 1.	Two UEs, either test UEs or UE emulator capable to support two UEs, where each UE supports a single layer: used to perform Radio U-Plane data transfer with the network
- 2.	BFN able to simultaneously provide two uplink channels with different effective angle of arrival for the UEs. The angle of arrival and channel conditioning to provide sufficient rank of the channel matrix, such that both UE layers can be properly detected by the DUT during channel estimation and equalisation. The BFN shall provide symmetrical uplink and downlink channels
- 3.	O-CU or O-CU emulator either as a disaggregated node or as an aggregated node with the (DUT1) O-DU. In case of disaggregated node, O-CU or O-CU emulator terminates the 3GPP 5G F1 interface with the DUT1 (O-DU)
- 4.	5G Core Network or 5G Core Network emulator: used to terminate UEs (emulator) NAS protocol
- 5.	Application test server: used to generate and terminate application layer traffic (eg UDP, TWAMP, etc) and provide application layer processing on the network side
Testing tools which can be useful for this test scenario particularly for validating that the DUTs are configured and operating correctly during the test, troubleshooting and detailed validation purposes:

- 1.	RF Spectrum and Beam Signal Analyzer: used for RF and Beam power and quality analysis ensuring that the O-RU (DUT1(O-RU)) is correctly transmitting the configured broadcast and synchronization signals on the downlink
- 2.	FH Protocol Analyzer: For protocol analysis of O-RAN FH protocols and message flows (for example to verify or report used capabilities)
Additional requirements for this test scenario:

- 1.	A means to determine that the DUT has used the capabilities declared in the “to be validated” and “to be reported” tables associated with the PTC. The exact means of determination is out of scope of the present document

#### 8.4.2.3  Test Purpose and Scope

#### 8.4.2.4  Testability requirements imposed on O-RU and O-DU

#### 8.4.2.5  Test Methodology

##### 8.4.2.5.1 Initial Conditions

- 1.	O-RU and O-DU are both in service, ie, M-Plane start-up procedure has been completed and broadcast channels are being transmitted
- The two UEs, either test UE or UE emulator, have registered to the network, ie, Radio Layer 3 C-Plane establishment procedures are completed. Radio Layer 3 C-Plane establishment procedure includes Registration procedure and service request procedure specified in 3GPP TS 23.502 [21]

##### 8.4.2.5.2  Procedure: Nominal test

Perform uplink data transfer from the UEs to the application test server on the network side. Both UEs, or application test server connected to the UEs, generate and transmit uplink data with data size, when aggregated across both UEs, is large enough to achieve the maximum Layer 1 Radio data rate, which is specified in 8.4.2.6, for the duration of the test. The duration of the test is 20 seconds.

Data transfers shall be performed over PDU Session and QoS flow specified in 3GPP TS 23.502 [21].

This test case does not specify the test data pattern generated by the UEs, or application test server connected to the UEs, but it is recommended that the test data pattern should include some level of randomness (ie, avoid all zeros).

#### 8.4.2.6  Test Requirement (expected result)

Observe that both UEs perform Radio U-Plane data transfer over the network through the O-DU and O-RU, with aggregated UE transfer rate achieving the target data rate.

Collect the Radio U-Plane logs of both UEs and analyze to determine each contains measurements such as the measured Radio U-Plane data rates during the test

Observe, for example by analyzing message flows over FH, that “to be validated” capabilities listed in the PTC are used and such usage is recorded in the test report.

Observe that the usage or absence of usage of the “to be reported” capabilities listed in the PTC is recorded in the test report.

The performance acceptance criterion is that for the duration of the test both UEs simultaneously transmit uplink data such that the aggregated Radio U-Plane rate achieves the performance level defined as follows,

- Target data rate = Maximum Layer 1 Radio data rate * (1 – Margin),
- where
- Maximum Layer 1 Radio data rate is calculated based on TS 38.306, clause 4.1.2 [26], Equation 8.3.2.6-1 above defines the relationship, with ʋ= 2 (for two layers, one per UE). The data rate shall be pro-rated with the TDD configuration specified in IOT profile. Parameter values for number of carriers (J), numerology (µ), and total channel bandwidth (BW) are also specified in the IOT profiles. Maximum supported modulation order (Qm) is DUT’s maximum supported modulation order in UL for the PTC being tested. Scaling factor (f) shall be set to one. Any parameters in Equation 8.3.2.6-1 not defined in the IOT profiles are defined in TS 38.306 [26]
- Margin is assumed in order to account for impairments other than the FH. The value of Margin is 0.2
- Multi-layer operation is implicitly tested as achievement of target performance requires that each UEs nominally consumes all available resources on its respective layer
If the performance acceptance criterion has been met, but use of “to be validated” capabilities listed in the PTC is NOT confirmed, the inconclusive outcome of the test is marked as failure.

# 9  C/U-Plane Delay Management IOT Test

## 9.1 General

The test cases defined in this section will validate that the transmitted Control- and User-data packets sent from the O-DU are received within the reception windows at the O-RU by checking that the frame timing on the air interface is correct.

The same is applicable for uplink direction, ie, that the User-data packets sent from the O-RU are received within the reception window on the O-DU, this is done by checking that it is possible for a test UE to attach and send data.

For all currently defined IOT Profiles the O-DU timing advance type is ‘Fixed Timing Advance’. The Figure below is copied from the O-RAN WG4 CUS Specification [2] section 4.4.6 “Latency Categories for O-DU with fixed timing advance”.

Figure 9.1-1: O-RAN WG4 CUS Specification [2] section 4.4.6 “Latency Categories for O-DU with fixed timing advance”.

The Figure shows the downlink timing when fixed timing is used, the point TXDL_Start is a fixed point in relation to the “OTA transmission” point.

The O-DU needs only to be configured with T12max, T12min and Tcp_adv_dl the values are taken from the profile that is used when running these test cases. The Tcp_adv_dl value is the time in advance the O-RU needs the C-Plane messages before the U-Plane information is received by the O-RU. These test cases assume a symmetric latency in the Fronthaul Network, ie, T12=T34.

These test cases assume that the difference between “fixed timing advance” and “dynamic timing advance” is that for “fixed timing advance” the O-DU will advance the transmission of downlink data the same amount of time for all connected O-RUs regardless of the individual fronthaul latency, for “dynamic timing advance” the advancement could be different per O-RU and thus eg, T12max shall be configured per O-RU.

An O-DU running in “Fixed Timing Advance”-mode is an O-DU that has the ability to handle a specific value for T1a (sum of fronthaul latency T12 and O-RU processing delay T2a). The O-DU will set the TXDL_Start to this fixed value independent on actual T12_max value.

TXmaxlls-CU will vary due to different line-rates of the fronthaul interface and amount of data (control+user) that is sent for a specific symbol.

## 9.2  Test environment

Testing tools which are required for the delay management test cases.

Figure 9.2-1: Delay-management test environment

Testing tools which can be useful for this test scenario particularly for validating that the DUTs are configured and operating correctly during the test, troubleshooting and detailed validation purposes

## 9.3  Timing accuracy definition

When in “Test Requirement (expected result)” it is stated “… timing accuracy at the antenna reference point is according to requirement” the following is applicable.

In ORAN WG4 CUS Specification [2] section 11.2.5.5 “Air interface maximum time error”, tables 11.2.5.5-1 and 11.2.5.5-2 list the 3GPP air interface timing accuracy for different LTE and 5G features. The timing accuracy requirements are divided into 2 alternatives, relative or absolute time errors.

Depending on what 3GPP features that are to be supported by a specific IOT-profile different timing accuracy requirement is thus applicable.

## 9.4  Delay Management #1, minimum fronthaul latency

### 9.4.1  Test Description and Applicability

This test case is OPTIONAL.

This is a Radio system level test which is used to validate the radio system functionalities, performance and multi-vendor interoperability of the O-DU and O-RU from different vendors connected using the O-RAN WG4 specified FH interface [2], [3].

This test validates that the O-RU will transmit the user data at correct point in time and with correct content during different conditions related to the fronthaul interface latency between the O-DU and the O-RU.

### 9.4.2  Minimum Requirements

Single O-DU (DUT1(O-DU)) and a single O-RU (DUT1(O-RU))

### 9.4.3  Test Purpose

Purpose of this test is to validate that correct timing is achieved on the air interface regardless of the O-RU processing time and using the minimum feasible fronthaul latency.

### 9.3.4  Testability requirements imposed on O-RU and O-DU

Nominal software runs on the O-RU and O-DU.

### 9.4.5  Test Methodology

#### 9.4.5.1  Initial Conditions

#### 9.4.5.2  Procedure: Nominal test

Performs downlink and uplink data transfer to/from the test UE.

### 9.4.6  Test Requirement (expected result)

Observe that:

## 9.5  Delay Management #2, maximum fronthaul latency

### 9.5.1  Test Description and Applicability

This test case is OPTIONAL.

This is a Radio system level test which is used to validate the radio system functionalities, performance and multi-vendor interoperability of the O-DU and O-RU from different vendors connected using the O-RAN WG4 specified FH interface [2], [3].

This test validates that the O-RU will transmit the user data at correct point in time and with correct content during different conditions related to the fronthaul interface between the O-DU and the O-RU.

### 9.5.2  Minimum Requirements

Single O-DU (DUT1(O-DU)) and a single O-RU (DUT1(O-RU))

### 9.5.3  Test Purpose

Purpose of this test is to validate that correct timing is achieved on the air interface regardless of the O-RU processing time and using the maximum supported fronthaul latency as per the corresponding IOT profile.

### 9.5.4  Testability requirements imposed on O-RU and O-DU

Nominal software runs on the O-RU and O-DU.

### 9.5.5  Test Methodology

#### 9.5.5.1  Initial Conditions

#### 9.5.5.2  Procedure: Nominal test

Performs downlink and uplink data transfer to/from the test UE.

### 9.5.6  Test Requirement (expected result)

Observe that:

## 9.6  Delay Management #3, normal fronthaul latency

### 9.6.1  Test Description and Applicability

This test case is OPTIONAL.

This is a Radio system level test which is used to validate the radio system functionalities, performance and multi-vendor interoperability of the O-DU and O-RU from different vendors connected using the O-RAN WG4 specified FH interface [2], [3].

This test validates that the O-RU will transmit the user data at correct point in time and with correct content during different conditions related to the fronthaul interface between the O-DU and the O-RU.

### 9.6.2  Minimum Requirements

Single O-DU (DUT1(O-DU)) and a single O-RU (DUT1(O-RU))

### 9.6.3  Test Purpose

Purpose of this test is to validate that correct timing is achieved on the air interface regardless of the O-RU processing time and using a normal fronthaul latency as per the corresponding IOT profile.

### 9.6.4  Testability requirements imposed on O-RU and O-DU

Nominal software runs on the O-RU and O-DU.

### 9.6.5  Test Methodology

#### 9.6.5.1  Initial Conditions

The fronthaul latency should be set to an arbitrary value between 0 and 160µs eg, 75µs

O-RU and O-DU are both in service, ie, M-Plane start-up procedure is completed and broadcast channels are being transmitted

Test UE or UE emulator has registered to the network, ie, Radio Layer 3 C-Plane establishment procedure is completed

#### 9.6.5.2  Procedure: Nominal test

Performs downlink and uplink data transfer to/from the test UE.

### 9.6.6  Test Requirement (expected result)

Observe that:

With Fronthaul Protocol Analyzer (connected at the O-DU-end of fronthaul interface), observe that the fronthaul C- and U-Plane messages transmitted by the O-DU are transmitted within respective plane’s transmission windows.

With Fronthaul Protocol Analyzer (connected at the O-RU-end of fronthaul interface), observe that the fronthaul C- and U-Plane messages in downlink direction are received within respective plane’s reception window by the O-RU.

With the RF Spectrum Analyzer, observe that the air interface transmission timing accuracy at the antenna reference point is according to requirements as specified in section 9.3.

With Fronthaul Protocol Analyzer (connected at the O-RU-end of fronthaul interface), observe that the U-Plane messages transmitted by the O-RU (uplink direction) are transmitted within the O-RU’s transmission window.

## 9.7  Delay Management #4, larger fronthaul latency then supported

### 9.7.1  Test Description and Applicability

This test case is OPTIONAL.

This is a Radio system level test which is used to validate the radio system functionalities, performance and multi-vendor interoperability of the O-DU and O-RU from different vendors connected using the O-RAN WG4 specified FH interface [2], [3].

This test validates that the O-RU will not transmit anything on the air interface when the latency in the fronthaul network is larger than is supported by the O-RU, ie, the C- and U-Plane messages will be received too late on the O-RU (outside its reception window) and thus be dropped by the O-RU.

### 9.7.2  Minimum Requirements

Single O-DU (DUT1(O-DU)) and a single O-RU (DUT1(O-RU))

### 9.7.3  Test Purpose

Validate that the O-RU will not transmit anything OTA when the configured fronthaul latency is larger than the maximum supported value as per the corresponding IOT profile.

### 9.7.4  Testability requirements imposed on O-RU and O-DU

Nominal software runs on the O-RU and O-DU.

### 9.7.5  Test Methodology

#### 9.7.5.1  Initial Conditions

#### 9.7.5.2  Procedure: Nominal test

-

### 9.7.6  Test Requirement (expected result)

## A.1 General

This Annex contains the IOT Profiles and the IOT Profile Test Configurations (PTC) within each IOT Profile.

Sometimes the value of existing IOT Profile Test Configuration parameter will change from one version of the specification to the next. Therefore, it is necessary to refer to both the IOT Profile Test Configuration name and the particular version of the WG4 IOT specification to ensure that the appropriate set of profile parameters are referenced.

For IOT testing, the Profile Test Configuration serves as entry criteria for O-DU and O-RU. The terminology used in the IOT profiles is listed in Table A.1-1.

| Terminology | O-DU entry criterion | O-RU entry criterion | Additional information |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| REQ | Capability is supported | Capability is expected to be used in the IOT test but actual usage is not guaranteed |  |
| O-RU REQ | Capability may be supported (not a test entry criterion) | Capability is supported | The capability is supported by the O-RU and thus depending on O-DU support, O-DU may use the capability. In the IOT testing, the capability need not be invoked. This allows many O-DU designs to match an O-RU capabilities |
| NOT REQ | Capability may be supported (not a test entry criterion) | There is no support requirement on O-DU and O-RU and O-DU is allowed to use the capability in IOT testing if O-RU supports it. This enables a wide variety of equipment to be tested without increasing the number of PTCs |  |
| N/A |  | The capabilities that are not directly relevant to a test configuration or are not expected to be invoked during an IOT test are categorized under N/A |  |

The intent of an IOT Profile Test Configuration is to characterize the parameters for an interoperability test such that, for a given DUT, the same result will be obtained irrespective of where the test is conducted and who conducts the test; future releases of the present document may amend an IOT Profile Test Configuration description as required to achieve this intent. In particular, test definitions including parameter lists as defined by O-RAN shall be complete, and the test creator shall have no discretion when creating the test but shall follow the test definitions in the present document exactly. However, in cases where no IOT Profile Test Configuration matches the needs of the test creator, a Customized IOT Configuration may be used; see clause 5.1.8 for more information on the use of Customized IOT Configurations.

The IOT Profiles refer to the specific versions of the CUS-Plane and M-Plane specifications referenced in clause 2.1 of the present document.

In some cases deployment/implementation specific constraints make it desirable to customize the parameters in the IOT profiles in this specification. M-Plane parameters are excluded from customization. To generate a customized profile, an existing CUS IOT profile is chosen and Table A.1-2 provides a list of CUS-Plane IOT Profile parameters that may be modified for the Custom IOT Configuration.

Table A.1-2: Modifiable and Forbidden CUS-Plane Parameters

| Category | Item | Related O-RAN CUS-Plane specification section(s) |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| General | Radio access technology | - | Forbidden |
| General | TDD configuration | - | Modifiable |
| General | Nominal sub-carrier spacing | - | Modifiable |
| General | SSB sub-carrier spacing | - | Modifiable |
| General | Nominal FFT size | - | Modifiable |
| General | Total channel bandwidth | - | Modifiable |
| General | Number of spatial/antenna streams | - | Modifiable |
| General | Fronthaul Ethernet link | - | Modifiable |
| General | PRACH preamble format | - | Modifiable |
| General | O-RU category | 4.2.1 | Forbidden |
| General | LAA | - | Forbidden |
| ` Delay management | Network delay determination | 4.4.4.2 | Forbidden |
| ` Delay management | RU adaptation of delay profile information (based on O-DU delay profile and transport delay) | 4.4.4.3 | Forbidden |
| ` Delay management | O-DU timing advance type | 4.4.5-4.4.6, Annex B | Forbidden |
| ` Delay management | T1a_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | Forbidden |
| ` Delay management | T1a_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | Forbidden |
| ` Delay management | T2a_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | Forbidden |
| ` Delay management | T2a_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | Forbidden |
| ` Delay management | Tcp_adv_dl | 4.3.2, Annex B | Forbidden |
| ` Delay management | Ta3_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | Forbidden |
| ` Delay management | Ta3_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | Forbidden |
| ` Delay management | Ta4_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | Forbidden |
| ` Delay management | Ta4_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | Forbidden |
| ` Delay management | Ta3_max_up (scs=1.25kHz) | 4.4, Annex B | Forbidden |
| ` Delay management | Ta3_min_up (scs=1.25kHz) | 4.4, Annex B | Forbidden |
| ` Delay management | Ta4_max_up (scs=1.25kHz) | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | Forbidden |
| ` Delay management | Ta4_min_up (scs=1.25kHz) | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | Forbidden |
| ` Delay management | T1a_max_cp_ul | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | Forbidden |
| ` Delay management | T1a_min_cp_ul | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | Forbidden |
| ` Delay management | T2a_max_cp_ul | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | Forbidden |
| ` Delay management | T2a_min_cp_ul | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | Forbidden |
| ` Delay management | T12_max | 4.4, Annex B | Forbidden |
| ` Delay management | T12_min | 4.4, Annex B | Forbidden |
| ` Delay management | T34_max | 4.4, Annex B | Forbidden |
| ` Delay management | T34_min | 4.4, Annex B | Forbidden |
| ` Delay management | Non-delay managed U-Plane traffic | 4.4.7 | Forbidden |
| C/U-Plane Transport | eAxC ID DU_Port_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | Modifiable |
| C/U-Plane Transport | eAxC ID BandSector_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | Modifiable |
| C/U-Plane Transport | eAxC ID CC_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | Modifiable |
| C/U-Plane Transport | eAxC ID RU_Port_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | Modifiable |
| C/U-Plane Transport | All other C/U-plane transport items as defined in baseline IOT profile |  | All other C/U-plane transport parameters shall align with base IOT profile selected (ie Forbidden) |
| Digital Power Scaling | UL gain_correction | 8.1.3.2 | Forbidden |
| Beamforming | All items as defined in baseline IOT profile |  | All Beamforming parameters shall align with base IOT profile selected (ie Forbidden) |
| IQ compression | All items as defined in baseline IOT profile |  | All IQ compression parameters shall align with base IOT profile selected (ie Forbidden) |
| C-Plane | All items as defined in baseline IOT profile |  | All C-plane parameters shall align with base IOT profile selected (ie Forbidden) |
| S-Plane | All items as defined in baseline IOT profile |  | All S-plane parameters shall align with base IOT profile selected (ie Forbidden) |

## A.2 M-Plane IOT Profile

### A.2.1 M-Plane IOT Profile 1 Hierarchical-sudo

Table A.2.1-1: Hierarchical-sudo

| Category | Item | Related O-RAN M-Plane/ YANG specification section(s) |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| High Level Description | Architectural models | 5.1.2 M-Plane architecture model | Hierarchical model |
| High Level Description | IP version | 5.1.3 Transport network | IPv4 |
| High Level Description | Hash algorithm for data integrity | 5.4 Security | HMAC-SHA2-256 |
| High Level Description | Cyphering algorithm | 5.4 Security | AES128-CTR |
| “Start up” installation | O-RU identification by DHCP option | 6.2.2 O-RU identification in DHCP | DHCPv4(Option: 60) |
| “Start up” installation | VLAN Discovery | 6.2.3 Management plane VLAN discovery aspects | support VLAN SCAN |
| “Start up” installation | IP address assignment | 6.2.4 O-RU management plane IP address assignment | IPv4 configuration using DHCPv4 |
| “Start up” installation | O-RU controller discovery | 6.2.5 O-RU controller discovery | DHCPv4 option 43 |
| “Start up” installation | DHCP format of O-RU controller discovery | 6.2.5 O-RU controller discovery | O-RU Controller IP Address |
| “Start up” installation | NETCONF Call Home | 6.3 NETCONF call home to O-RU controller(s) | call home(port4334) |
| “Start up” installation | SSH/TLS Connection Establishment | 6.4 NETCONF connection establishment | SSH: password-based authentication |
| “Start up” installation | TCP port for SSH/TLS establishment (for test purpose) | 6.4.1 NETCONF security  YANG (4) o-ran-mplane-int.yang | SSH: Default (port 830) |
| “Start up” installation | NETCONF Authentication | 6.4.2 NETCONF authentication | password-based authentication |
| “Start up” installation | User Account Provisioning | 6.4.3 User account provisioning | default sudo |
| “Start up” installation | sudo | 6.5 NETCONF access control | used |
| “Start up” installation | nms | 6.5 NETCONF access control | not used |
| “Start up” installation | fm-pm | 6.5 NETCONF access control | not used |
| “Start up” installation | swm | 6.5 NETCONF access control | not used |
| “Start up” installation | NETCONF capability | 6.6 NETCONF capability discovery | yang-library, Writable-running Capability, XPATH capability, Notifications, Interleave capability |
| “Start up” installation | Watchdog timer | 6.7 Monitoring NETCONF connectivity | used |
| O-RU to O-DU Interface Management | VLAN tagging for C/U/M-Plane | 6.2.3 Management plane VLAN discovery aspects 7.3 C/U-Plane VLAN configuration | used for C/U/M-Plane |
| O-RU to O-DU Interface Management | C/U-Plane IP Address Assignment | 7.4 O-RU C/U-Plane IP address assignment | not used |
| O-RU to O-DU Interface Management | Definition of processing elements | 7.5 Definition of processing elements | a combination of VLAN identity and MAC address |
| O-RU to O-DU Interface Management | C/U-Plane Transport Connectivity | 7.6 O-DU verification of C/U-Plane transport connectivity | Loop-back Protocol (LBM/LBR) |
| O-RU to O-DU Interface Management | O-RU Monitoring of C/U-Plane Connectivity | 7.10 O-RU Monitoring of C/U-Plane connectivity | not used |
| Configuration Management | Baseline configuration | 9.1 Baseline configuration | 1 phase |
| Fault Management | subscribe notification | 11.3 Manage alarm subscription to NETCONF clients | default stream |
| Synchronization Aspects | Sync Capability Object | 13.3 Sync capability object | CLASS_B |
| Details of O-RU Operations | Activation, deactivation and sleep | 15.3.2 Activation, deactivation and sleep | used |

### A.2.2 M-Plane IOT Profile 2 Hybrid-sudo+nms

Profile Test Configurations:

Table A.2.2-1: Hybrid-sudo+nms

| Category | Item | Related O-RAN M-Plane/ YANG specification section(s) |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| High Level Description | Architectural models | 5.1.2 M-Plane architecture model | Hybrid model |
| High Level Description | IP version | 5.1.3 Transport network | IPv4 |
| High Level Description | Hash algorithm for data integrity | 5.4 Security | HMAC-SHA2-256 |
| High Level Description | Cyphering algorithm | 5.4 Security | AES128-CTR |
| “Start up” installation | O-RU identification by DHCP option | 6.2.2 O-RU identification in DHCP | DHCPv4(Option: 60) |
| “Start up” installation | VLAN Discovery | 6.2.3 Management plane VLAN discovery aspects | support VLAN SCAN |
| “Start up” installation | IP address assignment | 6.2.4 O-RU management plane IP address assignment | IPv4 configuration using DHCPv4 |
| “Start up” installation | O-RU controller discovery | 6.2.5 O-RU controller discovery | Entry 1) DHCPv4 option 43 Entry 2) Configured by o-ran-mplane-int.yang |
| “Start up” installation | DHCP format of O-RU controller discovery | 6.2.5 O-RU controller discovery | O-RU Controller IP Address |
| “Start up” installation | NETCONF Call Home | 6.3 NETCONF call home to O-RU controller(s) | call home(port4334) |
| “Start up” installation | SSH/TLS Connection Establishment | 6.4 NETCONF connection establishment | SSH: password-based authentication |
| “Start up” installation | TCP port for SSH/TLS establishment (for test purpose) | 6.4.1 NETCONF security YANG (4) o-ran-mplane-int.yang | SSH: Default (port 830) |
| “Start up” installation | NETCONF Authentication | 6.4.2NETCONF authentication | password-based authentication |
| “Start up” installation | User Account Provisioning | 6.4.3 User account provisioning | default sudo |
| “Start up” installation | sudo | 6.5 NETCONF access control | used |
| “Start up” installation | nms | 6.5 NETCONF access control | used |
| “Start up” installation | fm-pm | 6.5 NETCONF access control | not used |
| “Start up” installation | swm | 6.5 NETCONF access control | not used |
| “Start up” installation | NETCONF capability | 6.6 NETCONF capability discovery | yang-library, Writable-running Capability, XPATH capability, Notifications, Interleave capability |
| “Start up” installation | Watchdog timer | 6.7 Monitoring NETCONF connectivity | used |
| O-RU to O-DU Interface Management | VLAN tagging for C/U/M-Plane | 6.2.3 Management plane VLAN discovery aspects 7.3 C/U-Plane VLAN configuration | used for C/U/M-Plane |
| O-RU to O-DU Interface Management | C/U-Plane IP Address Assignment | 7.4 O-RU C/U-Plane IP address assignment | not used |
| O-RU to O-DU Interface Management | Definition of processing elements | 7.5 Definition of processing elements | a combination of VLAN identity and MAC address |
| O-RU to O-DU Interface Management | C/U-Plane Transport Connectivity | 7.6 O-DU verification of C/U-Plane transport connectivity | Loop-back Protocol (LBM/LBR) |
| O-RU to O-DU Interface Management | O-RU Monitoring of C/U-Plane Connectivity | 7.10 O-RU monitoring of C/U-Plane connectivity | not used |
| Configuration Management | Baseline configuration | 9.1 Baseline configuration | 1 phase |
| Fault Management | subscribe notification | 11.3 Manage alarm subscription to NETCONF clients | default stream |
| Synchronization Aspects | Sync Capability Object | 13.3 Sync capability object | CLASS_B |
| Details of O-RU Operations | Activation, deactivation and sleep | 15.3.2 Activation, deactivation and sleep | not used |

### A.2.3 M-Plane IOT Profile 3 Hierarchical-sudo-IPv6

Profile Test Configurations:

Table A.2.3-1: Hierarchical-sudo-IPv6

| Category | Item | Related O-RAN M-Plane/ YANG specification section(s) |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| High Level Description | Architectural models | 5.1.2 M-Plane architecture model | Hierarchical model |
| High Level Description | IP version | 5.1.3 Transport network | IPv6 |
| High Level Description | Hash algorithm for data integrity | 5.4 Security | Entry 1) SSHv2 -HMAC-SHA2-256 Entry 2) TLS1.2 - SHA256 |
| High Level Description | Cyphering algorithm | 5.4 Security | Entry 1) SSHv2 - AES128-CTR Entry 2) TLS1.2 -AES128-GCM |
| “Start up” installation | O-RU identification by DHCP option | 6.2.2 O-RU identification in DHCP | DHCPv6 (Option: 16) |
| “Start up” installation | VLAN Discovery | 6.2.3 Management plane VLAN discovery aspects | support VLAN SCAN |
| “Start up” installation | IP address assignment | 6.2.4 O-RU management plane IP address assignment | Entry 1) State-full address configuration Entry 2) Stateless Address Auto-Configuration (SLAAC) |
| “Start up” installation | O-RU controller discovery | 6.2.5 O-RU controller discovery | DHCPv6 (Option: 17) |
| “Start up” installation | DHCP format of O-RU controller discovery | 6.2.5 O-RU controller discovery | O-RU Controller IP Address |
| “Start up” installation | NETCONF Call Home | 6.3 NETCONF call home to O-RU controller(s) | Entry 1) SSH - call home port:4334  Entry 2) TLS - call home port 4335 |
| “Start up” installation | SSH/TLS Connection Establishment | 6.4 NETCONF connection establishment | Entry 1) SSH - password-based authentication Entry 2) TLS - X.509 Certificate |
| “Start up” installation | TCP port for SSH/TLS establishment (for test purpose) | 6.4.1 NETCONF security YANG (4) o-ran-mplane-int.yang | Entry 1) SSH Default (port 830) Entry 2) TLS Default (port 6513) |
| “Start up” installation | NETCONF Authentication | 6.4.2 NETCONF authentication | Entry 1) SSH password-based authentication Entry 2) TLS - X.509 Certificate |
| “Start up” installation | User Account Provisioning | 6.4.3 User account provisioning | default sudo |
| “Start up” installation | sudo | 6.5 NETCONF access control | used |
| “Start up” installation | nms | 6.5 NETCONF access control | not used |
| “Start up” installation | fm-pm | 6.5 NETCONF access control | not used |
| “Start up” installation | swm | 6.5 NETCONF access control | not used |
| “Start up” installation | NETCONF capability | 6.6 NETCONF capability discovery | yang-library, Writable-running Capability, rollback on error, XPATH capability, Notifications, Interleave capability |
| “Start up” installation | Watchdog timer | 6.7 Monitoring NETCONF connectivity | used |
| O-RU to O-DU Interface Management | VLAN tagging for C/U/M-Plane | 6.2.3 Management plane VLAN discovery aspects 7.3 C/U-Plane VLAN configuration | used for C/U/M-Plane |
| O-RU to O-DU Interface Management | C/U-Plane IP Address Assignment | 7.4 O-RU C/U-Plane IP address assignment | not used |
| O-RU to O-DU Interface Management | Definition of processing elements | 7.5 Definition of processing elements | a combination of VLAN identity and MAC address |
| O-RU to O-DU Interface Management | C/U-Plane Transport Connectivity | 7.6 O-DU verification of C/U-Plane transport connectivity | Loop-back Protocol (LBM/LBR) |
| O-RU to O-DU Interface Management | O-RU Monitoring of C/U-Plane Connectivity | 7.10 O-RU monitoring of C/U-Plane connectivity | not used |
| Configuration Management | Baseline configuration | 9.1 Baseline configuration | 1 phase |
| Fault Management | subscribe notification | 11.3 Manage alarm subscription to NETCONF clients | default stream |
| Synchronization Aspects | Sync Capability Object | 13.3 Sync capability object | Entry 1: CLASS_B Entry 2: ENHANCED |
| Details of O-RU Operations | Activation, deactivation and sleep | 15.3.2 Activation, deactivation and sleep | used |

### A.2.4 M-Plane IOT Profile 4 Hybrid-sudo+nms-IPv6

Profile Test Configurations:

Table A.2.4-1: Hybrid-sudo+nms-IPv6

| Category | Item | Related O-RAN M-Plane/ YANG specification section(s) |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| High Level Description | Architectural models | 5.1.2 M-Plane architecture model | Hybrid model |
| High Level Description | IP version | 5.1.3 Transport network | IPv6 |
| High Level Description | Hash algorithm for data integrity | 5.4 Security | Entry 1) SSHv2 -HMAC-SHA2-256 Entry 2) TLS1.2 - SHA256 |
| High Level Description | Cyphering algorithm | 5.4 Security | Entry 1) SSHv2 - AES128-CTR Entry 2) TLS1.2 -AES128-GCM |
| “Start up” installation | O-RU identification by DHCP option | 6.2.2 O-RU identification in DHCP | DHCPv6 (Option: 16) |
| “Start up” installation | VLAN Discovery | 6.2.3 Management plane VLAN discovery aspects | support VLAN SCAN |
| “Start up” installation | IP address assignment | 6.2.4 O-RU Management plane IP address assignment | Entry 1) State-full address configuration Entry 2) Stateless Address Auto-Configuration (SLAAC) |
| “Start up” installation | O-RU controller discovery | 6.2.5 O-RU controller discovery | Entry 1) DHCPv6 (Option: 17) Entry 2) Configured by o-ran-mplane-int.yang |
| “Start up” installation | DHCP format of O-RU controller discovery | 6.2.5 O-RU controller discovery | O-RU Controller IP Address |
| “Start up” installation | NETCONF Call Home | 6.3 NETCONF call home to O-RU controller(s) | Entry 1) SSH - call home port:4334  Entry 2) TLS - call home port 4335 |
| “Start up” installation | SSH/TLS Connection Establishment | 6.4 NETCONF connection establishment | Entry 1) SSH - password-based authentication Entry 2) TLS - X.509 Certificate |
| “Start up” installation | TCP port for SSH/TLS establishment (for test purpose) | 6.4.1 NETCONF security YANG (4) o-ran-mplane-int.yang | Entry 1) SSH Default (port 830) Entry 2) TLS Default (port 6513) |
| “Start up” installation | NETCONF Authentication | 6.4.2 NETCONF authentication | Entry 1) SSH password-based authentication Entry 2) TLS - X.509 Certificate |
| “Start up” installation | User Account Provisioning | 6.4.3 User account provisioning | default sudo |
| “Start up” installation | sudo | 6.5 NETCONF access control | used |
| “Start up” installation | nms | 6.5 NETCONF access control | used |
| “Start up” installation | fm-pm | 6.5 NETCONF access control | not used |
| “Start up” installation | swm | 6.5 NETCONF access control | not used |
| “Start up” installation | NETCONF capability | 6.6 NETCONF capability discovery | yang-library, Writable-running Capability, rollback on error, XPATH capability, Notifications, Interleave capability |
| “Start up” installation | Watchdog timer | 6.7 Monitoring NETCONF connectivity | used |
| O-RU to O-DU Interface Management | VLAN tagging for C/U/M-Plane | 6.2.3 Management plane VLAN discovery aspects 7.3 C/U-Plane VLAN configuration | used for C/U/M-Plane |
| O-RU to O-DU Interface Management | C/U-Plane IP Address Assignment | 7.4 O-RU C/U-Plane IP address assignment | not used |
| O-RU to O-DU Interface Management | Definition of processing elements | 7.5 Definition of processing elements | a combination of VLAN identity and MAC address |
| O-RU to O-DU Interface Management | C/U-Plane Transport Connectivity | 7.6 O-DU verification of C/U-Plane transport connectivity | Loop-back Protocol (LBM/LBR) |
| O-RU to O-DU Interface Management | O-RU Monitoring of C/U-Plane Connectivity | 7.10 O-RU monitoring of C/U-Plane connectivity | not used |
| Configuration Management | Baseline configuration | 9.1 Baseline configuration | 1 phase |
| Fault Management | subscribe notification | 11.3 Manage alarm subscription to NETCONF clients | default stream |
| Synchronization Aspects | Sync Capability Object | 13.3 Sync capability object | Entry 1: CLASS_B Entry 2: ENHANCED |
| Details of O-RU Operations | Activation, deactivation and sleep | 15.3.2 Activation, deactivation and sleep | not used |

## A.3 CUS-Plane IOT Profiles

### A.3.1 NR TDD

#### A.3.1.1  NR TDD IOT Profile 1 - NR-TDD-FR1-CAT-A-NoBF

Table A.3.1.1-1: NR TDD IOT Profile 1 - NR-TDD-FR1-CAT-A-NoBF

| Category | Item | Related O-RAN CUS-Plane specification section(s) |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| General | Radio access technology | - | NR TDD |
| General | TDD configuration | - | Entry1:  pattern1{ dl-UL-TransmissionPeriodicity ms3 nrofDownlinkSlots 3 nrofDownlinkSymbols 6 nrofUplinkSlots 2 nrofUplinkSymbols 4}  pattern2{ dl-UL-TransmissionPeriodicity ms2 nrofDownlinkSlots 4 nrofDownlinkSymbols 0 nrofUplinkSlots 0 nrofUplinkSymbols 0}  Entry2:  dl-UL-TransmissionPeriodicity ms5 nrofDownlinkSlots 7 nrofDownlinkSymbols 6 nrofUplinkSlots 2 nrofUplinkSymbols 4  Entry3: dl-UL-TransmissionPeriodicity ms2p5  nrofDownlinkSlots 3 nrofDownlinkSymbols 10  nrofUplinkSlots 1  nrofUplinkSymbols 2  Entry4:  pattern1{ dl-UL-TransmissionPeriodicity ms3 nrofDownlinkSlots 3 nrofDownlinkSymbols 6 nrofUplinkSlots 2 nrofUplinkSymbols 4}  pattern2{ dl-UL-TransmissionPeriodicity ms2 nrofDownlinkSlots 1 nrofDownlinkSymbols 10 nrofUplinkSlots 2 nrofUplinkSymbols 0} |
| General | Nominal sub-carrier spacing | - | 30 kHz |
| General | SSB sub-carrier spacing | - | 30 kHz |
| General | Nominal FFT size | - | 4096 |
| General | Total channel bandwidth | - | 100MHz x 1CC |
| General | Number of spatial/antenna streams | - | Entry1: 2 Entry2: 4 |
| General | Fronthaul Ethernet link | - | Entry1: 25Gbps x 1lane Entry2: 10Gbps x 2lane Entry3: 10Gbps x 1lane |
| General | PRACH preamble format | - | Entry1: B4 Entry2: C2 Entry3: Long preamble F0 |
| General | RU category | 4.2.1 | Category A |
| General | LAA | - | FALSE |
| Delay management | Network delay determination | 4.4.4.2 | Defined Transport Method |
| Delay management | RU adaptation of delay profile information (based on O-DU delay profile and transport delay) | 4.4.4.3 | FALSE |
| Delay management | O-DU timing advance type | 4.4.5-4.4.6, Annex B | Fixed Timing Advance |
| Delay management | T1a_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 345us |
| Delay management | T1a_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 294us |
| Delay management | T2a_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 345us |
| Delay management | T2a_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 134us |
| Delay management | Tcp_adv_dl | 4.3.2, Annex B | 125 us |
| Delay management | Ta3_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 171us |
| Delay management | Ta3_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 50us |
| Delay management | Ta4_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 331us |
| Delay management | Ta4_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 50us |
| Delay management | Ta3_max_up (scs=1.25kHz) | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 1650us |
| Delay management | Ta3_min_up (scs=1.25kHz) | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 827us |
| Delay management | Ta4_max_up (scs=1.25kHz) | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 1810us |
| Delay management | Ta4_min_up (scs=1.25kHz) | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 827us |
| Delay management | T1a_max_cp_ul | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 336us |
| Delay management | T1a_min_cp_ul | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 285us |
| Delay management | T2a_max_cp_ul | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 336us |
| Delay management | T2a_min_cp_ul | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 125us |
| Delay management | T12_max | 4.4, Annex B | 160 us |
| Delay management | T12_min | 4.4, Annex B | 0 us |
| Delay management | T34_max | 4.4, Annex B | 160 us |
| Delay management | T34_min | 4.4, Annex B | 0 us |
| Delay management | Non-delay managed U-Plane traffic | 4.4.7 | FALSE |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport encapsulation | 5.1.1-5.1.2 | Ethernet |
| C/U-Plane transport | Jumbo frames | 5.1.2 | FALSE |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport header | 5.1.3 | eCPRI |
| C/U-Plane transport | eCPRI concatenation | 5.1.3.1-5.1.3.2 | FALSE |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID DU_Port_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | Entry1: 2 Entry2: 4 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID BandSector_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | Entry1: 6 Entry2: 2 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID CC_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | 4 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID RU_Port_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | Entry1: 4 Entry2: 6 |
| C/U-Plane transport | Fragmentation | 5.5 | Application layer fragmentation |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport prioritization across C/U/S/M-Plane | 5.3 | Default L2 CoS priority |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport prioritization within U-Plane | 5.3 | False (Default U-Plane priority applies) |
| C/U-Plane transport | Separation of C/U-Plane and M-Plane traffic | 5.4 | VLAN ID |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport-based separation within C/U-Plane traffic | 5.4 | FALSE |
| Digital Power Scaling | UL gain_correction | 8.1.3.2 | 0dB |
| Beamforming | RU beamforming type | 4.2.1..(10.1) | No beamforming |
| Beamforming | Beamforming control method | 7.3, Annex J | Beamforming ID based (always "0") |
| IQ compression | U-Plane data compression method | 8, Annex A | Block floating point |
| IQ compression | U-Plane data IQ bitwidth | 8, Annex D | Entry1: 8 Entry2: 14 Entry3: 9 |
| IQ compression | IQ data frame format not including udCompHdr field | 8.3.3.13 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 0 | 7.4.2 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 1 | 7.4.3 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 3 | 7.4.5 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 5 | 7.4.7 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 6 | 7.4.8 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 7 | 7.4.9 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | "symInc" flag | 7.5.3.3 | FALSE (always set to '0') |
| C-Plane | C-Plane for PRACH formats with preamble repetition | 7.2.3.4 | Single C-Plane message |
| C-Plane | Section extension 1 | 7.7.1 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 2 | 7.7.2 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 3 | 7.7.3 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 4 | 7.7.4 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 5 | 7.7.5 | FALSE |
| S-Plane | PTP Full Timing Support (G.8275.1) | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | TRUE |
| S-Plane | PTP Partial Timing Support (G.8275.2) | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | FALSE |
| S-Plane | Local PRTC | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | FALSE |
| S-Plane | Topology configuration | 11.2.2 10, 11.2.3 (for PLFS) | Entry1: lls-C1 (can also apply lls-C2) Entry2: lls-C3 |

#### A.3.1.2  NR TDD IOT Profile 2 - NR-TDD-FR1-CAT-A-DBF

Profile Test Configurations:

Table A.3.1.2-1: NR TDD IOT Profile 2 - NR-TDD-FR1-CAT-A-DBF

| Category | Item | Related O-RAN CUS-Plane specification section(s) |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| General | Radio access technology | - | NR TDD |
| General | TDD configuration | - | Entry1:  pattern1{ dl-UL-TransmissionPeriodicity ms3 nrofDownlinkSlots 3 nrofDownlinkSymbols 6 nrofUplinkSlots 2 nrofUplinkSymbols 4}  pattern2{ dl-UL-TransmissionPeriodicity ms2 nrofDownlinkSlots 4 nrofDownlinkSymbols 0 nrofUplinkSlots 0 nrofUplinkSymbols 0}  Entry2:  pattern1{ dl-UL-TransmissionPeriodicity ms3 nrofDownlinkSlots 3 nrofDownlinkSymbols 6 nrofUplinkSlots 2 nrofUplinkSymbols 4}  pattern2{ dl-UL-TransmissionPeriodicity ms2 nrofDownlinkSlots 1 nrofDownlinkSymbols 10 nrofUplinkSlots 2 nrofUplinkSymbols 0} |
| General | Nominal sub-carrier spacing | - | 30 kHz |
| General | SSB sub-carrier spacing | - | 30 kHz |
| General | Nominal FFT size | - | 4096 |
| General | Total channel bandwidth | - | Entry1: 100MHz x 1CC Entry2: 80MHz x 1CC |
| General | Number of spatial/antenna streams | - | 4 |
| General | Fronthaul Ethernet link | - | 25Gbps x 1lane |
| General | PRACH preamble format | - | Entry1: B4 Entry2: Long preamble F0 |
| General | RU category | 4.2.1 | Category A |
| General | LAA | - | FALSE |
| Delay management | Network delay determination | 4.4.4.2 | Defined Transport Method |
| Delay management | RU adaptation of delay profile information (based on O-DU delay profile and transport delay) | 4.4.4.3 | FALSE |
| Delay management | O-DU timing advance type | 4.4.5-4.4.6, Annex B | Fixed Timing Advance |
| Delay management | T1a_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 345us |
| Delay management | T1a_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 294us |
| Delay management | T2a_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 345us |
| Delay management | T2a_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 134us |
| Delay management | Tcp_adv_dl | 4.3.2, Annex B | 125 us |
| Delay management | Ta3_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 171us |
| Delay management | Ta3_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 50us |
| Delay management | Ta4_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 331us |
| Delay management | Ta4_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 50us |
| Delay management | Ta3_max_up (scs=1.25kHz) | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 1650us |
| Delay management | Ta3_min_up (scs=1.25kHz) | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 827us |
| Delay management | Ta4_max_up (scs=1.25kHz) | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 1810us |
| Delay management | Ta4_min_up (scs=1.25kHz) | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 827us |
| Delay management | T1a_max_cp_ul | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 336us |
| Delay management | T1a_min_cp_ul | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 285us |
| Delay management | T2a_max_cp_ul | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 336us |
| Delay management | T2a_min_cp_ul | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 125us |
| Delay management | T12_max | 4.4, Annex B | 160 us |
| Delay management | T12_min | 4.4, Annex B | 0 us |
| Delay management | T34_max | 4.4, Annex B | 160 us |
| Delay management | T34_min | 4.4, Annex B | 0 us |
| Delay management | Non-delay managed U-Plane traffic | 4.4.7 | FALSE |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport encapsulation | 5.1.1-5.1.2 | Ethernet |
| C/U-Plane transport | Jumbo frames | 5.1.2 | FALSE |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport header | 5.1.3 | eCPRI |
| C/U-Plane transport | eCPRI concatenation | 5.1.3.1-5.1.3.2 | FALSE |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID DU_Port_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | 2 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID BandSector_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | 6 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID CC_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | 4 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID RU_Port_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | 4 |
| C/U-Plane transport | Fragmentation | 5.5 | Application layer fragmentation |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport prioritization across C/U/S/M-Plane | 5.3 | Default L2 CoS priority |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport prioritization within U-Plane | 5.3 | False (Default U-Plane priority applies) |
| C/U-Plane transport | Separation of C/U-Plane and M-Plane traffic | 5.4 | VLAN ID |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport-based separation within C/U-Plane traffic | 5.4 | FALSE |
| Digital Power Scaling | UL gain_correction | 8.1.3.2 | 0dB |
| Beamforming | RU beamforming type | 4.2.1..(10.1) | Digital beamforming |
| Beamforming | Beamforming control method | 7.3, Annex J | Beamforming ID based |
| IQ compression | U-Plane data compression method | 8, Annex A | Block floating point |
| IQ compression | U-Plane data IQ bitwidth | 8, Annex D | 14 |
| IQ compression | IQ data frame format not including udCompHdr field | 8.3.3.13 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 0 | 7.4.2 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 1 | 7.4.3 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 3 | 7.4.5 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 5 | 7.4.7 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 6 | 7.4.8 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 7 | 7.4.9 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | "symInc" flag | 7.5.3.3 | FALSE (always set to '0') |
| C-Plane | C-Plane for PRACH formats with preamble repetition | 7.2.3.4 | Single C-Plane message |
| C-Plane | Section extension 1 | 7.7.1 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 2 | 7.7.2 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 3 | 7.7.3 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 4 | 7.7.4 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 5 | 7.7.5 | FALSE |
| S-Plane | PTP Full Timing Support (G.8275.1) | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | TRUE |
| S-Plane | PTP Partial Timing Support (G.8275.2) | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | FALSE |
| S-Plane | Local PRTC | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | FALSE |
| S-Plane | Topology configuration | 11.2.2 10, 11.2.3 (for PLFS) | Entry1: lls-C1 (can also apply lls-C2) Entry2: lls-C3 |

#### A.3.1.3  NR TDD IOT Profile 3 - NR-TDD-FR2-CAT-A-ABF

Profile Test Configurations:

Table A.3.1.3-1: NR TDD IOT Profile 3 - NR-TDD-FR2-CAT-A-ABF

| Category | Item | Related O-RAN CUS-Plane specification section(s) |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| General | Radio access technology | - | NR TDD |
| General | TDD configuration | - | dl-UL-TransmissionPeriodicity: ms0p625 nrofDownlinkSlots: 3 nrofDownlinkSymbols: 10 nrofUplinkSlots: 1 nrofUplinkSymbols: 2 |
| General | Nominal sub-carrier spacing | - | 120 kHz |
| General | SSB sub-carrier spacing | - | Entry1: 240kHz Entry2: 120KHz |
| General | Nominal FFT size | - | 1024 |
| General | Total channel bandwidth | - | Entry1: 100MHz x 1CC Entry2: 100MHz x 2CC Entry3: 100MHz x 3CC Entry4: 100MHz x 4CC Entry5: 100MHz x 6CC Entry6: 100MHz x 8CC |
| General | Number of spatial/antenna streams | - | 2 |
| General | Fronthaul Ethernet link | - | 25Gbps x 1lane for 100MHz x 1,2,3,4CC, 25Gbps x 2lane for 100MHz x 6,8CC |
| General | PRACH preamble format | - | Entry1: C0 Entry2: A3 Entry3: C2 |
| General | RU category | 4.2.1 | Category A |
| General | LAA | - | FALSE |
| Delay management | Network delay determination | 4.4.4.2 | Defined Transport Method |
| Delay management | RU adaptation of delay profile information (based on O-DU delay profile and transport delay) | 4.4.4.3 | FALSE |
| Delay management | O-DU timing advance type | 4.4.5-4.4.6, Annex B | Fixed Timing Advance |
| Delay management | T1a_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 264us |
| Delay management | T1a_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 213us |
| Delay management | T2a_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 264us |
| Delay management | T2a_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 53us |
| Delay management | Tcp_adv_dl | 4.3.2, Annex B | 63 us |
| Delay management | Ta3_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 90us |
| Delay management | Ta3_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 20us |
| Delay management | Ta4_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 250us |
| Delay management | Ta4_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 20us |
| Delay management | T1a_max_cp_ul | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 274us |
| Delay management | T1a_min_cp_ul | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 223us |
| Delay management | T2a_max_cp_ul | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 274us |
| Delay management | T2a_min_cp_ul | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 63us |
| Delay management | T12_max | 4.4, Annex B | 160 us |
| Delay management | T12_min | 4.4, Annex B | 0 us |
| Delay management | T34_max | 4.4, Annex B | 160 us |
| Delay management | T34_min | 4.4, Annex B | 0 us |
| Delay management | Non-delay managed U-Plane traffic | 4.4.7 | FALSE |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport encapsulation | 5.1.1-5.1.2 | Ethernet |
| C/U-Plane transport | Jumbo frames | 5.1.2 | FALSE |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport header | 5.1.3 | eCPRI |
| C/U-Plane transport | eCPRI concatenation | 5.1.3.1-5.1.3.2 | FALSE |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID DU_Port_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | Entry1: 2 Entry2: 4 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID BandSector_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | Entry1: 6 Entry2: 2 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID CC_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | 4 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID RU_Port_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | Entry1: 4 Entry2: 6 |
| C/U-Plane transport | Fragmentation | 5.5 | Application layer fragmentation |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport prioritization across C/U/S/M-Plane | 5.3 | Default L2 CoS priority |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport prioritization within U-Plane | 5.3 | False (Default U-Plane priority applies) |
| C/U-Plane transport | Separation of C/U-Plane and M-Plane traffic | 5.4 | VLAN ID |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport-based separation within C/U-Plane traffic | 5.4 | FALSE |
| Digital Power Scaling | UL gain_correction | 8.1.3.2 | 0dB |
| Beamforming | RU beamforming type | 4.2.1..(10.1) | Analog beamforming |
| Beamforming | Beamforming control method | 7.3, Annex J | Beamforming ID based |
| IQ compression | U-Plane data compression method | 8, Annex A | Block floating point |
| IQ compression | U-Plane data IQ bitwidth | 8, Annex D | 14 |
| IQ compression | IQ data frame format not including udCompHdr field | 8.3.3.13 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 0 | 7.4.2 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 1 | 7.4.3 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 3 | 7.4.5 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 5 | 7.4.7 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 6 | 7.4.8 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 7 | 7.4.9 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | "symInc" flag | 7.5.3.3 | FALSE (always set to '0') |
| C-Plane | C-Plane for PRACH formats with preamble repetition | 7.2.3.4 | Single C-Plane message |
| C-Plane | Section extension 1 | 7.7.1 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 2 | 7.7.2 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 3 | 7.7.3 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 4 | 7.7.4 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 5 | 7.7.5 | FALSE |
| S-Plane | PTP Full Timing Support (G.8275.1) | 7.2.3, 10.1, 11 | TRUE |
| S-Plane | PTP Partial Timing Support (G.8275.2) | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | FALSE |
| S-Plane | Local PRTC | 5.2.3, 11 | FALSE |
| S-Plane | Topology configuration | 11.2.2 10, 11.2.3 (for PLFS) | Entry1: lls-C1 (can also apply lls-C2) Entry2: lls-C3 |

#### A.3.1.4  NR TDD IOT M-MIMO Profile 1 - NR-TDD-FR1-CAT-B-mMIMO-RTWeights-BFP

Profile Test Configurations:

Table A.3.1.4-1: NR TDD IOT M-MIMO Profile 1 - NR-TDD-FR1-CAT-B-mMIMO-RTWeights-BFP

| Category | Item | Related O-RAN CUS-Plane specification section(s) |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| General | Radio access technology | - | NR TDD |
| General | TDD configuration | - | Entry1: DDDFUUDDDD Entry2: DDDFU |
| General | Nominal sub-carrier spacing | - | 30kHz |
| General | SSB sub-carrier spacing | - | 30kHz |
| General | Nominal FFT size | - | 4096(100MHz_BW) |
| General | Total channel bandwidth | - | 100MHz x 1 CC |
| General | Number of spatial/antenna streams | - | Entry1: 8L (DL), 8 streams (UL) Entry2: 16L (DL), 16 streams (UL) |
| General | Fronthaul Ethernet link | - | 25Gbps x 2 lane (16L, 1CC) |
| General | PRACH preamble format | - | Entry1: Long preamble F0 Entry2: B4 Entry3: C2 |
| General | RU category | 4.2.1 | Category B |
| General | LAA | - | FALSE |
| Delay management | Network delay determination | 4.4.4.2 | Defined Transport Method |
| Delay management | RU adaptation of delay profile information | 4.4.4.3 | FALSE |
| Delay management | (based on O-DU delay profile and transport delay) | 4.4.4.3 | FALSE |
| Delay management | O-DU timing advance type | 4.4.5-4.4.6, Annex B | Fixed timing Advance |
| Delay management | T1a_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to Entry1:345us Entry2: 475us (Note 2) |
| Delay management | T1a_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to Entry1: 294us Entry2: 400us |
| Delay management | T1a_max_cp_dl | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to Entry1: 669us Entry2: 971us |
| Delay management | T1a_min_cp_dl | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal t Entry1: 419us Entry2: 550us |
| Delay management | T2a_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to Entry1: 345us Entry2: 475us |
| Delay management | T2a_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to Entry1: 134us Entry2: 240us |
| Delay management | T2a_max_cp_dl | 4.3.2, Annex B | More than or equal to Entry1: 669us Entry2: 971us |
| Delay management | T2a_min_cp_dl | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to Entry1: 259us Entry2: 390us |
| Delay management | Tcp_adv_dl | 4.4, Annex B | Entry1: 125us Entry2: 150us |
| Delay management | Ta3_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to Entry1: 171us Entry2: 280us |
| Delay management | Ta3_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 50us |
| Delay management | Ta4_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to Entry1: 331us Entry2: 440us |
| Delay management | Ta4_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 50us |
| Delay management | Ta3_max_up (scs=1.25kHz) | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 1650us |
| Delay management | Ta3_min_up (scs=1.25kHz) | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 827us |
| Delay management | Ta4_max_up (scs=1.25kHz) | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 1810us |
| Delay management | Ta4_min_up (scs=1.25kHz) | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 827us |
| Delay management | T1a_max_cp_ul | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to Entry1: 535us Entry2: 840us |
| Delay management | T1a_min_cp_ul | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to Entry1: 285us Entry2: 419us |
| Delay management | T2a_max_cp_ul | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to Entry1: 535us Entry2: 840us |
| Delay management | T2a_min_cp_ul | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to Entry1: 125us Entry2: 259us |
| Delay management | T12_max | 4.4, Annex B | 160us |
| Delay management | T12_min | 4.4, Annex B | 0us |
| Delay management | T34_max | 4.4, Annex B | 160us |
| Delay management | T34_min | 4.4, Annex B | 0us |
| Delay management | Non-delay managed U-Plane traffic | 4.4.7 | Support |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport encapsulation | 5.1.1-5.1.2 | Ethernet |
| C/U-Plane transport | Jumbo frames | 5.1.2 | Entry1: TRUE  Entry2: FALSE |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport header | 5.1.3 | eCPRI |
| C/U-Plane transport | eCPRI concatenation | 5.1.3.1-5.1.3.2 | FALSE |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID DU_Port_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | 5 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID BandSector_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | 1 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID CC_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | 2 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID RU_Port_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | 8 |
| C/U-Plane transport | Fragmentation | 5.5 | Application layer fragmentation |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport prioritization across C/U/S/M-Plane | 5.3 | Default L2 CoS Priority |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport prioritization within U-Plane | 5.3 | TRUE |
| C/U-Plane transport | Seperation of C/U-Plane and M-Plane traffic | 5.4 | VLAN ID |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport-based separation within C/U-Plane traffic | 5.4 | FALSE |
| Digital Power Scaling | UL gain_correction | 8.1.3.2 | 0 dB |
| Beamforming | O-RU beamforming type | 4.2.1..(10.1) | Digital beamforming |
| Beamforming | Beamforming control method | 7.3, Annex J | RT Weights (Frequency Domain) |
| Beamforming | BFW IQ | 7.4, Annex J | Entry 1: Fixed Point, 12-bit Entry 2: BFP, 9-bit |
| IQ compression | U-Plane data compression method | 8, Annex A | BFP |
| IQ compression | U-Plane (DL/UL) data IQ bitwidth | 8, Annex D | 9 |
| IQ compression | IQ data frame format not including udCompHdr field | 8.3.3.13 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 0 | 7.4.2 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 1 | 7.4.3 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 3 | 7.4.5 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 5 | 7.4.7 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 6 | 7.4.8 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 7 | 7.4.9 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | "symInc" flag | 7.5.3.3 | FALSE (always set to "0") |
| C-Plane | C-Plane for PRACH formats with preamble repetition | 7.2.3.4 | Single C-Plane message |
| C-Plane | Section extension 1 (beamforming weights) | 7.7.1 | Entry 1: FALSE Entry 2: TRUE (Note 1) |
| C-Plane | Section extension 2 (beamforming attributes) | 7.7.2 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 3 (DL Precoding configuration parameters and indications) | 7.7.3 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 4 (modulation compr. params) | 7.7.4 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 5 (modulation compression additional scaling parameters) | 7.7.5 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 6 (Non-contiguous PRB allocation) | 7.7.6 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 7 (Multiple-eAxC designation) | 7.7.7 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 8 (regularization factor) | 7.7.8 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 9 (Dynamic Spectrum Sharing parameters) | 7.7.9 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 10 (Multiple ports grouping) | 7.7.10 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 11 (Flexible BF weights) | 7.7.11 | Entry 1: TRUE Entry 2: FALSE (Note 1) |
| C-Plane | Section extension 12 | 7.7.12 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 13 | 7.7.13 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 14 | 7.7.14 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 15 | 7.7.15 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 16 | 7.7.16 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 17 | 7.7.17 | FALSE |
| S-Plane | PTP Full Timing Support (G.8275.1) | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | TRUE |
| S-Plane | PTP Partial Timing Support (G.8275.2) | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | FALSE |
| S-Plane | Local PRTC | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | FALSE |
| S-Plane | Topology configuration | 11.2.2 10, 11.2.3 (for PLFS) | Entry 1) lls-C1 (can also apply lls-C2) Entry 2) lls-C1 (PLFS not required by O-RU) Entry 3) lls-C3 |

Note 1: Either Section extension 1 or Section extension 11 should be used for IOT (ie, (FALSE, TRUE) or (TRUE, FALSE)).

Note 2: When two entries are present for parameters in section ‘Delay Management’, DM1 refers to Entry1 and DM2 to Entry2. DM1/2 are used as identifiers in list “Profile Test Configurations”.

#### A.3.1.5  NR TDD IOT M-MIMO Profile 2 - NR-TDD-FR1-CAT-B-mMIMO-RTWeights-ModComp

Profile Test Configurations:

Table A.3.1.5-1: NR TDD IOT M-MIMO Profile 2 - NR-TDD-FR1-CAT-B-mMIMO-RTWeights-ModComp

| Category | Item | Related O-RAN CUS-Plane specification section(s) |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| General | Radio access technology | - | NR TDD |
| General | TDD configuration | - | Entry1: DDDFUUDDDD Entry2: DDDFU |
| General | Nominal sub-carrier spacing | - | 30kHz |
| General | SSB sub-carrier spacing | - | 30kHz |
| General | Nominal FFT size | - | 4096(100MHz_BW) |
| General | Total channel bandwidth | - | Entry1: 100MHz x 1 CC Entry2: 100 MHz x 2 CC |
| General | Number of spatial/antenna streams | - | Entry1: 8L (DL), 8 streams (UL) Entry2: 16L (DL), 16 streams (UL) |
| General | Fronthaul Ethernet link | - | Entry1: 25Gbps x 2 lane (16L, 1CC) Entry2: 25Gbps x 3 lane (16L, 2CC) |
| General | PRACH preamble format | - | Entry1: Long preamble F0 Entry2: B4 Entry3: C2 |
| General | O-RU category | 4.2.1 | Category B |
| General | LAA | - | FALSE |
| Delay management | Network delay determination | 4.4.4.2 | Defined Transport Method |
| Delay management | O-RU adaptation of delay profile information (based on lls-CU delay profile and transport delay) | 4.4.4.3 | FALSE |
| Delay management | O-DU timing advance type | 4.4.5-4.4.6, Annex B | Fixed timing Advance |
| Delay management | T1a_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to Entry1: 345us Entry2: 475us (Note 3) |
| Delay management | T1a_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to Entry1: 294us Entry2: 400us |
| Delay management | T1a_max_cp_dl | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to Entry1: 669us Entry2: 971us |
| Delay management | T1a_min_cp_dl | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to Entry1: 419us Entry2: 550us |
| Delay management | T2a_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to Entry1: 345us Entry2: 475us |
| Delay management | T2a_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to Entry1: 134us Entry2: 240us |
| Delay management | T2a_max_cp_dl | 4.3.2, Annex B | More than or equal to Entry1: 669us Entry2: 971us |
| Delay management | T2a_min_cp_dl | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to Entry1: 259us Entry2: 390us |
| Delay management | Tcp_adv_dl | 4.4, Annex B | Entry1: 125us Entry2: 150us |
| Delay management | Ta3_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to Entry1: 171us Entry2: 280us |
| Delay management | Ta3_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 50us |
| Delay management | Ta4_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to Entry1: 331us Entry2: 440us |
| Delay management | Ta4_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 50us |
| Delay management | Ta3_max_up (scs=1.25kHz) | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 1650us |
| Delay management | Ta3_min_up (scs=1.25kHz) | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 827us |
| Delay management | Ta4_max_up (scs=1.25kHz) | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 1810us |
| Delay management | Ta4_min_up (scs=1.25kHz) | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 827us |
| Delay management | T1a_max_cp_ul | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to Entry1: 535us Entry2: 840us |
| Delay management | T1a_min_cp_ul | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to Entry1: 285us Entry2: 419us |
| Delay management | T2a_max_cp_ul | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to Entry1: 535us Entry2: 840us |
| Delay management | T2a_min_cp_ul | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to Entry1: 125us Entry2: 259us |
| Delay management | T12_max | 4.4, Annex B | 160us |
| Delay management | T12_min | 4.4, Annex B | 0us |
| Delay management | T34_max | 4.4, Annex B | 160us |
| Delay management | T34_min | 4.4, Annex B | 0us |
| Delay management | Non-delay managed U-Plane traffic | 4.4.7 | Support |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport encapsulation | 5.1.1-5.1.2 | Ethernet |
| C/U-Plane transport | Jumbo frames | 5.1.2 | Entry1: TRUE  Entry2: FALSE |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport header | 5.1.3 | eCPRI |
| C/U-Plane transport | eCPRI concatenation | 5.1.3.1-5.1.3.2 | FALSE |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID DU_Port_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | 5 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID BandSector_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | 1 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID CC_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | 2 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID RU_Port_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | 8 |
| C/U-Plane transport | Fragmentation | 5.5 | Application layer fragmentation |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport prioritization across C/U/S/M-Plane | 5.3 | Default L2 CoS Priority |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport prioritization within U-Plane | 5.3 | TRUE |
| C/U-Plane transport | Seperation of C/U-Plane and M-Plane traffic | 5.4 | VLAN ID |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport-based separation within C/U-Plane traffic | 5.4 | FALSE |
| Digital Power Scaling | UL gain_correction | 8.1.3.2 | 0 dB |
| Beamforming | O-RU beamforming type | 4.2.1..(10.1) | Digital beamforming |
| Beamforming | Beamforming control method | 7.4, Annex J | RT Weights (Frequency Domain) |
| Beamforming | BFW IQ | 7.4, Annex J | Entry 1: Fixed Point, 12-bit Entry 2: BFP, 9-bit |
| IQ compression | U-Plane data compression method | 8, Annex A | DL: Mod COMP, UL: BFP |
| IQ compression | U-Plane (DL/UL) data IQ bitwidth | 8, Annex D | DL: Mod COMP, 4 bits (max)  UL: BFP, 9 bits |
| IQ compression | IQ data frame format not including udCompHdr field | 8.3.3.13 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 0 | 7.4.2 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 1 | 7.4.3 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 3 | 7.4.5 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 5 | 7.4.7 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 6 | 7.4.8 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 7 | 7.4.9 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | "symInc" flag | 7.5.3.3 | FALSE (always set to "0") |
| C-Plane | C-Plane for PRACH formats with preamble repetition | 7.2.3.4 | Single C-Plane message |
| C-Plane | Section extension 1 (beamforming weights) | 7.7.1 | Entry 1: FALSE Entry 2: TRUE (Note 1) |
| C-Plane | Section extension 2 (beamforming attributes) | 7.7.2 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 3 (DL Precoding configuration parameters and indications) | 7.7.3 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 4 (modulation compr. params) | 7.7.4 | Entry 1: TRUE Entry 2: FALSE (Note 2) |
| C-Plane | Section extension 5 (modulation compression additional scaling parameters) | 7.7.5 | Entry 1: FALSE Entry 2: TRUE (Note 2) |
| C-Plane | Section extension 6 (Non-contiguous PRB allocation) | 7.7.6 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 7 (Multiple-eAxC designation) | 7.7.7 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 8 (regularization factor) | 7.7.8 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 9 (Dynamic Spectrum Sharing parameters) | 7.7.9 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 10 (Multiple ports grouping) | 7.7.10 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 11 (Flexible BF weights) | 7.7.11 | Entry 1: TRUE Entry 2: FALSE (Note 1) |
| C-Plane | Section extension 12 | 7.7.12 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 13 | 7.7.13 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 14 | 7.7.14 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 15 | 7.7.15 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 16 | 7.7.16 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 17 | 7.7.17 | FALSE |
| S-Plane | PTP Full Timing Support (G.8275.1) | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | TRUE |
| S-Plane | PTP Partial Timing Support (G.8275.2) | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | FALSE |
| S-Plane | Local PRTC | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | FALSE |
| S-Plane | Topology configuration | 11.2.2 10, 11.2.3 (for PLFS) | Entry 1) lls-C1 (can also apply lls-C2) Entry 2) lls-C1 (PLFS not required by O-RU) Entry 3) lls-C3 |

Note 1: Either Section extension 1 or Section extension 11 should be used for IOT (ie, (FALSE, TRUE) or (TRUE, FALSE)).

Note 2: Either Section extension 4 or Section extension 5 should be used for IOT (ie, (FALSE, TRUE) or (TRUE, FALSE)).

Note 3: When two entries are present for parameters in section ‘Delay Management’, DM1 refers to Entry1 and DM2 to Entry2. DM1/2 are used as identifiers in list “Profile Test Configurations”

#### A.3.1.6  NR TDD IOT M-MIMO Profile 3 - NR-TDD-FR1-CAT-B-mMIMO-ChInfo-BFP

Profile Test Configurations:

- NR-TDD-FR1-CAT-B-mMIMO-ChInfo-BFP_[ConfigDDDFU-100MHz1CC-16SS-25Gbpsx2lane-PRACHC2-Jumbo-llsC3]
Table A.3.1.6-1: NR TDD IOT M-MIMO Profile 3 - NR-TDD-FR1(30kHzSRS)-CAT-B-mMIMO-ChInfo-BFP

| Category | Item | Related O-RAN CUS-Plane specification section(s) |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| General | Radio access technology | - | NR TDD |
| General | TDD configuration | - | Entry1: DDDFUUDDDD Entry2: DDDFU |
| General | Nominal sub-carrier spacing | - | 30kHz |
| General | SSB sub-carrier spacing | - | 30kHz |
| General | Nominal FFT size | - | 4096(100MHz_BW) |
| General | Total channel bandwidth | - | 100MHz x 1 CC |
| General | Number of spatial/antenna streams | - | Entry1: 8L (DL), 8 streams (UL) Entry2: 16L (DL), 16 streams (UL) |
| General | Fronthaul Ethernet link | - | 25Gbps x 2 lane (16L, 1CC) |
| General | PRACH preamble format | - | Entry1: Long preamble F0 Entry2: B4 Entry3: C2 |
| General | O-RU category | 4.2.1 | Category B |
| General | LAA | - | FALSE |
| Delay management | Network delay determination | 4.4.4.2 | Defined Transport Method |
| Delay management | O-RU adaptation of delay profile information (based on lls-CU delay profile and transport delay) | 4.4.4.3 | FALSE |
| Delay management | O-DU timing advance type | 4.4.5-4.4.6, Annex B | Fixed timing Advance |
| Delay management | T1a_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 345us |
| Delay management | T1a_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 294us |
| Delay management | T1a_max_cp_dl | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 820us |
| Delay management | T1a_min_cp_dl | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 769us |
| Delay management | T2a_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 345us |
| Delay management | T2a_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 134us |
| Delay management | T2a_max_cp_dl | 4.3.2, Annex B | More than or equal to 820us |
| Delay management | T2a_min_cp_dl | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 609us |
| Delay management | Tcp_adv_dl | 4.4, Annex B | 475us |
| Delay management | Ta3_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 171us |
| Delay management | Ta3_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 50us |
| Delay management | Ta4_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 331us |
| Delay management | Ta4_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 50us |
| Delay management | Ta3_max_up (scs=1.25kHz) | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 1650us |
| Delay management | Ta3_min_up (scs=1.25kHz) | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 827us |
| Delay management | Ta4_max_up (scs=1.25kHz) | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 1810us |
| Delay management | Ta4_min_up (scs=1.25kHz) | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 827us |
| Delay management | T1a_max_cp_ul | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 336us |
| Delay management | T1a_min_cp_ul | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 285us |
| Delay management | T2a_max_cp_ul | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 336us |
| Delay management | T2a_min_cp_ul | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 125us |
| Delay management | T12_max | 4.4, Annex B | 160us |
| Delay management | T12_min | 4.4, Annex B | 0us |
| Delay management | T34_max | 4.4, Annex B | 160us |
| Delay management | T34_min | 4.4, Annex B | 0us |
| Delay management | Non-delay managed U-Plane traffic | 4.4.7 | Support |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport encapsulation | 5.1.1-5.1.2 | Ethernet |
| C/U-Plane transport | Jumbo frames | 5.1.2 | Entry1: TRUE  Entry2: FALSE |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport header | 5.1.3 | eCPRI |
| C/U-Plane transport | eCPRI concatenation | 5.1.3.1-5.1.3.2 | FALSE |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID DU_Port_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | 5 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID BandSector_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | 1 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID CC_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | 2 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID RU_Port_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | 8 |
| C/U-Plane transport | Fragmentation | 5.5 | Application layer fragmentation |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport prioritization across C/U/S/M-Plane | 5.3 | Default L2 CoS Priority |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport prioritization within U-Plane | 5.3 | TRUE |
| C/U-Plane transport | Seperation of C/U-Plane and M-Plane traffic | 5.4 | VLAN ID |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport-based separation within C/U-Plane traffic | 5.4 | FALSE |
| Digital Power Scaling | UL gain_correction | 8.1.3.2 | 0 dB |
| Beamforming | O-RU beamforming type | 4.2.1..(10.1) | Digital beamforming |
| Beamforming | Beamforming control method | 7.4, Annex J | Chan Info (Frequency Domain) |
| Beamforming | BFW IQ | 7.4, Annex J | NA |
| IQ compression | U-Plane data compression method | 8, Annex A | BFP |
| IQ compression | U-Plane (DL/UL) data IQ bitwidth | 8, Annex D | 9 |
| IQ compression | IQ data frame format not including udCompHdr field | 8.3.3.13 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 0 | 7.4.2 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 1 | 7.4.3 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 3 | 7.4.5 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 5 | 7.4.7 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 6 | 7.4.8 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 7 | 7.4.9 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | "symInc" flag | 7.5.3.3 | FALSE (always set to "0") |
| C-Plane | C-Plane for PRACH formats with preamble repetition | 7.2.3.4 | Single C-Plane message |
| C-Plane | Section extension 1 (beamforming weights) | 7.7.1 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 2 (beamforming attributes) | 7.7.2 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 3 (DL Precoding configuration parameters and indications) | 7.7.3 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 4 (modulation compr. params) | 7.7.4 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 5 (modulation compression additional scaling parameters) | 7.7.5 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 6 (Non-contiguous PRB allocation) | 7.7.6 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 7 (Multiple-eAxC designation) | 7.7.7 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 8 (regularization factor) | 7.7.8 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 9 (Dynamic Spectrum Sharing parameters) | 7.7.9 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 10 (Multiple ports grouping) | 7.7.10 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 11 (Flexible BF weights) | 7.7.11 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 12 | 7.7.12 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 13 | 7.7.13 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 14 | 7.7.14 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 15 | 7.7.15 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 16 | 7.7.16 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 17 | 7.7.17 | FALSE |
| S-Plane | PTP Full Timing Support (G.8275.1) | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | TRUE |
| S-Plane | PTP Partial Timing Support (G.8275.2) | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | FALSE |
| S-Plane | Local PRTC | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | FALSE |
| S-Plane | Topology configuration | 11.2.2 10, 11.2.3 (for PLFS) | Entry 1) lls-C1 (can also apply lls-C2) Entry 2) lls-C1 (PLFS not required by O-RU) Entry 3) lls-C3 |

#### A.3.1.7  NR TDD IOT M-MIMO Profile 4 - NR-TDD-FR1-CAT-B-mMIMO-ChInfo-ModComp

Profile Test Configurations:

Table A.3.1.7-1: NR TDD IOT M-MIMO Profile 4 - NR-TDD-FR1-CAT-B-mMIMO-ChInfo-ModComp

| Category | Item | Related O-RAN CUS-Plane specification section(s) |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| General | Radio access technology | - | NR TDD |
| General | TDD configuration | - | Entry1: DDDFUUDDDD Entry2: DDDFU |
| General | Nominal sub-carrier spacing | - | 30kHz |
| General | SSB sub-carrier spacing | - | 30kHz |
| General | Nominal FFT size | - | 4096(100MHz_BW) |
| General | Total channel bandwidth | - | Entry1: 100MHz x 1 CC Entry2: 100 MHz x 2 CC |
| General | Number of spatial/antenna streams | - | Entry1: 8L (DL), 8 streams (UL) Entry2: 16L (DL), 16 streams (UL) |
| General | Fronthaul Ethernet link | - | Entry1: 25Gbps x 2 lane (16L, 1CC) Entry2: 25Gbps x 3 lane (16L, 2CC) |
| General | PRACH preamble format | - | Entry1: Long preamble F0 Entry2: B4 Entry3: C2 |
| General | O-RU category | 4.2.1 | Category B |
| General | LAA | - | FALSE |
| Delay management | Network delay determination | 4.4.4.2 | Defined Transport Method |
| Delay management | O-RU adaptation of delay profile information (based on lls-CU delay profile and transport delay) | 4.4.4.3 | FALSE |
| Delay management | O-DU timing advance type | 4.4.5-4.4.6, Annex B | Fixed timing Advance |
| Delay management | T1a_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 345us |
| Delay management | T1a_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 294us |
| Delay management | T1a_max_cp_dl | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 820us |
| Delay management | T1a_min_cp_dl | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 769us |
| Delay management | T2a_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 345us |
| Delay management | T2a_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 134us |
| Delay management | T2a_max_cp_dl | 4.3.2, Annex B | More than or equal to 820us |
| Delay management | T2a_min_cp_dl | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 609us |
| Delay management | Tcp_adv_dl | 4.4, Annex B | 475us |
| Delay management | Ta3_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 171us |
| Delay management | Ta3_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 50us |
| Delay management | Ta4_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 331us |
| Delay management | Ta4_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 50us |
| Delay management | Ta3_max_up (scs=1.25kHz) | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 1650us |
| Delay management | Ta3_min_up (scs=1.25kHz) | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 827us |
| Delay management | Ta4_max_up (scs=1.25kHz) | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 1810us |
| Delay management | Ta4_min_up (scs=1.25kHz) | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 827us |
| Delay management | T1a_max_cp_ul | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 336us |
| Delay management | T1a_min_cp_ul | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 285us |
| Delay management | T2a_max_cp_ul | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 336us |
| Delay management | T2a_min_cp_ul | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 125us |
| Delay management | T12_max | 4.4, Annex B | 160us |
| Delay management | T12_min | 4.4, Annex B | 0us |
| Delay management | T34_max | 4.4, Annex B | 160us |
| Delay management | T34_min | 4.4, Annex B | 0us |
| Delay management | Non-delay managed U-Plane traffic | 4.4.7 | Support |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport encapsulation | 5.1.1-5.1.2 | Ethernet |
| C/U-Plane transport | Jumbo frames | 5.1.2 | Entry1: TRUE  Entry2: FALSE |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport header | 5.1.3 | eCPRI |
| C/U-Plane transport | eCPRI concatenation | 5.1.3.1-5.1.3.2 | FALSE |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID DU_Port_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | 5 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID BandSector_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | 1 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID CC_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | 2 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID RU_Port_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | 8 |
| C/U-Plane transport | Fragmentation | 5.5 | Application layer fragmentation |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport prioritization across C/U/S/M-Plane | 5.3 | Default L2 CoS Priority |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport prioritization within U-Plane | 5.3 | TRUE |
| C/U-Plane transport | Seperation of C/U-Plane and M-Plane traffic | 5.4 | VLAN ID |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport-based separation within C/U-Plane traffic | 5.4 | FALSE |
| Digital Power Scaling | UL gain_correction | 8.1.3.2 | 0 dB |
| Beamforming | O-RU beamforming type | 4.2.1..(10.1) | Digital beamforming |
| Beamforming | Beamforming control method | 7.4, Annex J | Chan Info (Frequency Domain) |
| Beamforming | BFW IQ | 7.4, Annex J | NA |
| IQ compression | U-Plane data compression method | 8, Annex A | DL: Mod COMP, UL: BFP |
| IQ compression | U-Plane (DL/UL) data IQ bitwidth | 8, Annex D | DL: Mod COMP, 4 bits (max) UL: BFP, 9 bits |
| IQ compression | IQ data frame format not including udCompHdr field | 8.3.3.13 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 0 | 7.4.2 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 1 | 7.4.3 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 3 | 7.4.5 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 5 | 7.4.7 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 6 | 7.4.8 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 7 | 7.4.9 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | "symInc" flag | 7.5.3.3 | FALSE (always set to "0") |
| C-Plane | C-Plane for PRACH formats with preamble repetition | 7.2.3.4 | Single C-Plane message |
| C-Plane | Section extension 1 (beamforming weights) | 7.7.1 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 2 (beamforming attributes) | 7.7.2 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 3 (DL Precoding configuration parameters and indications) | 7.7.3 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 4 (modulation compr. params) | 7.7.4 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 5 (modulation compression additional scaling parameters) | 7.7.5 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 6 (Non-contiguous PRB allocation) | 7.7.6 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 7 (Multiple-eAxC designation) | 7.7.7 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 8 (regularization factor) | 7.7.8 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 9 (Dynamic Spectrum Sharing parameters) | 7.7.9 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 10 (Multiple ports grouping) | 7.7.10 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 11 (Flexible BF weights) | 7.7.11 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 12 | 7.7.12 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 13 | 7.7.13 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 14 | 7.7.14 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 15 | 7.7.15 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 16 | 7.7.16 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 17 | 7.7.17 | FALSE |
| S-Plane | PTP Full Timing Support (G.8275.1) | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | TRUE |
| S-Plane | PTP Partial Timing Support (G.8275.2) | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | FALSE |
| S-Plane | Local PRTC | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | FALSE |
| S-Plane | Topology configuration | 11.2.2 10, 11.2.3 (for PLFS) | Entry 1) lls-C1 (can also apply lls-C2) Entry 2) lls-C1 (PLFS not required by O-RU) Entry 3) lls-C3 |

#### A.3.1.8  NR TDD IOT M-MIMO Profile 5 - NR-TDD-FR1-CAT-B-mMIMO-WDBF-DMRS-BF-EQ-Base

Table A.3.1.8-1 describes the base profile. The following PTCs are defined.

- 1)	NR-TDD-FR1-CAT-B-mMIMO-WDBF-DMRS-BF-EQ-Base_PTC1_[12bitFP.BFW]
- 2)	NR-TDD-FR1-CAT-B-mMIMO-WDBF-DMRS-BF-EQ-Base_PTC2_[8bitBFP.BFW]
Table A.3.1.8-1: NR TDD IOT M-MIMO Profile 5: NR-TDD-FR1-CAT-B-mMIMO-WDBF-DMRS-BF-EQ-Base

| Category | Item | Related O-RAN CUS-Plane specification section(s) |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| General | Radio access technology | - | NR TDD |
| General | TDD configuration | - | DDDSUUDDDD |
| General | Nominal sub-carrier spacing | - | 30kHz |
| General | SSB sub-carrier spacing | - | 30kHz |
| General | Nominal FFT size |  | 4096 |
| General | Total channel bandwidth | - | 100MHz x 1 CC |
| General | Number of user layers | - | DL: 2 – 16 UL: 2 – 8 |
| General | Fronthaul Ethernet link | - | 25Gbps x 1 lane |
| General | PRACH preamble format | - | O-RU REQ: F0 |
| General | O-RU category | 4.2.1 | Category B |
| General | LAA | 7.2.5 | N/A |
| Delay management, general | Network delay determination | 4.4.4 | Defined Transport Method |
| Delay management, general | O-RU adaptation of delay profile information (based on lls-CU delay profile and transport delay) | 4.4.4.3 | NOT REQ |
| Delay management, general | O-DU timing advance type | 4.4.5-4.4.6, Annex B | REQ: Fixed timing Advance |
| Delay management, general | SRS transfer | 4.4.7 | REQ: Non-delay managed U-Plane |
| Delay management, default | Delay Sets for timing parameters |  | REQ: Table A.4.1-1 |
| Delay management, default | T12_max | 4.4, Annex B | 160us |
| Delay management, default | T12_min | 4.4, Annex B | 0us |
| Delay management, default | T34_max | 4.4, Annex B | 160us |
| Delay management, default | T34_min | 4.4, Annex B | 0us |
| Delay management, non default | non-default beamforming methods #1 | 12.6.3 | REQ: DMRS-BF-EQ |
| Delay management, non default | Delay Sets for timing parameters |  | REQ: Table A.4.3-1 |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport encapsulation | 5.1.1-5.1.2 | Ethernet |
| C/U-Plane transport | Jumbo frames | 5.1.2 | NOT REQ |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport header | 5.1.3 | REQ: eCPRI |
| C/U-Plane transport | eCPRI concatenation | 5.1.3.2 | NOT REQ |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID DU_Port_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | O-RU REQ: 3 and 2 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID BandSector_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | O-RU REQ: 2 and 3 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID CC_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | O-RU REQ: 3 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID RU_Port_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | O-RU REQ: 8 |
| C/U-Plane transport | Fragmentation | 5.5 | Application layer fragmentation  REQ |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport prioritization across C/U/S/M-Plane | 5.3 | Default L2 CoS Priority REQ |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport prioritization within U-Plane | 5.3 | NOT REQ |
| C/U-Plane transport | Separation of C/U-Plane and M-Plane traffic | 5.4 | VLAN ID REQ |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport-based separation within C/U-Plane traffic | 5.4 | NOT REQ |
| Digital Power Scaling | UL gain_correction (not applicable to  DMRS-BF-EQ) | 8.1.3.2 | 0 dB |
| Digital Power Scaling | equalization-data-scaling | 12.6.3.5 | REQ: Scaling-function1 or Scaling-function2 |
| Beamforming | O-RU beamforming type | 4.2.1 | REQ: Digital beamforming |
| Beamforming | Beamforming control method | 7.2.1, 12.6, Annex J | DL: REQ: WDBF and PDBF UL: REQ: DMRS-BF for PUSCH, WDBF or PDBF for non-PUSCH |
| Beamforming | BFW IQ | 7.7.1, Annex J | REQ  PTC1: Fixed point, 12 bits PTC2: BFP, 8 bits |
| IQ compression | U-Plane data compression method | 8, Annex A | REQ: BFP |
| IQ compression | U-Plane (DL/UL) data IQ bitwidth | 8, Annex D | DL: REQ: 9 bits UL: REQ: 8 and 9 bits  (PUSCH), 9 bits for other UL channels |
| IQ compression | IQ data frame format not including udCompHdr field | 8.3.3.13 | REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 0 | 7.4.2 | O-RU REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 1 | 7.4.3 | REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 3 | 7.4.5 | REQ (for PRACH ) |
| C-Plane | Section Type 4 | 7.4.6 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 5 | 7.4.7 | REQ (for DMRS-BF) |
| C-Plane | Section Type 6 | 7.4.8 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 7 | 7.4.9 | N/A |
| C-Plane | Section Type 8 | 7.4.10 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 9 | 7.4.11 | REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 10 | 7.4.12 | REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 11 | 7.4.13 | O-RU REQ |
| C-Plane | "symInc" flag | 7.5.3.3 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | C-Plane for PRACH formats with preamble repetition | 7.2.3.4 | REQ: Single C-Plane message |
| C-Plane | Section extension 1 (beamforming weights) | 7.7.1 | REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 2 (beamforming attributes) | 7.7.2 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 3 (DL Precoding configuration parameters and indications) | 7.7.3 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 4 (modulation compr. params) | 7.7.4 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 5 (modulation compression additional scaling parameters) | 7.7.5 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 6 (Non-contiguous PRB allocation) | 7.7.6 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 7 (Multiple-eAxC designation) | 7.7.7 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 8 (regularization factor) | 7.7.8 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 9 (Dynamic Spectrum Sharing parameters) | 7.7.9 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 10 (Multiple ports grouping) | 7.7.10 | REQ (for DMRS-BF) |
| C-Plane | Section extension 11 (Flexible BF weights) | 7.7.11 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 12 | 7.7.12 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 13 | 7.7.13 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 14 | 7.7.14 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 15 | 7.7.15 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 16 | 7.7.16 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 17 | 7.7.17 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 18 | 7.7.18 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 19 | 7.7.19 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 20 | 7.7.20 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 21 | 7.7.21 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 22 | 7.7.22 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 23 | 7.7.23 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 24 | 7.7.24 | REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 25 | 7.7.25 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 26 | 7.7.26 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 27 | 7.7.27 | NOT REQ |
| DMRS-BF | Port reduced DMRS data sending | 12.6.3.1 | O-RU REQ |
| DMRS-BF | User group self assembly | 7.7.24 | NOT REQ |
| DMRS-BF | Per-window symbol reordering with DMRS sending | 7.7.25, 12.6.1.5 | NOT REQ |
| DMRS-BF | Per section tx-window reassignment | 7.7.25, 12.6.1.5 | NOT REQ |
| DMRS-BF | symbolid meaining when reordering (up-symbolId-type-supported) | 7.7.25 | N/A |
| DMRS-BF | Transform precoding supported | 7.7.24 | O-RU REQ |
| DMRS-BF | PUSCH and DMRS mux supported | 7.7.24 | NOT REQ |
| DMRS-BF | DMRS configuration Type (dType) | 7.7.24, 7.7.24.14 | REQ: Type 1 (dType=0) |
| DMRS-BF | dmrsSymbolMask | 7.7.24 | REQ: 1+1 (symbol location: 2, 11) |
| DMRS-BF | different-transform-precoding-in-user-group-supported | 7.7.24 | NOT REQ |
| DMRS-BF | different-cdm-without-data-in-user-group-supported | 7.7.24 | NOT REQ |
| Measurements | SINR reporting | 7.2.11, 7.4.11 | O-RU REQ |
| Measurements | MEAS-UE-TAE (UE timing advance error) | 9.2.1 | O-RU REQ |
| Measurements | MEAS-UE-LAYER-POWER | 9.2.1 | O-RU REQ |
| Measurements | MEAS-UE-FREQ-OFFSET | 9.2.1 | O-RU REQ |
| Measurements | MEAS-IPN-ALLOC | 9.2.1 | O-RU REQ |
| Measurements | MEAS-IPN-UNALLOC | 9.2.1 | O-RU REQ |
| Measurements | MEAS-ANT-DMRS-SNR | 9.2.1 | NOT REQ |
| S-Plane | PTP Full Timing Support (G.8275.1) | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | REQ |
| S-Plane | PTP Partial Timing Support (G.8275.2) | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | NOT REQ |
| S-Plane | Local PRTC | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | N/A |
| S-Plane | Topology configuration | 11.2.2, 11.2.3 (for PLFS) | REQ: LLS-C1 or LLS-C3 |

Table A.3.1.8-2 lists “to be reported” and “to be validated” capabilities in radio layer 3 C-plane establishment and initial radio U-plane data transfer test. Table A.3.1.8-3 lists “to be reported” and “to be validated” capabilities in U-plane DL data transfer test. Table A.3.1.8-4 lists “to be reported” and “to be validated” capabilities in U-plane UL data transfer test.

| PTCs |  |
| --- | --- |
| PTC1 | Capabilities to be validated: WDBF for DL, DMRS-BF-EQ for PUSCH |
| PTC1 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, BFW Fixed point 12 bits, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), PUSCH data IQ bitwidth (8 bits or 9 bits), Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer |
| PTC2 | Capabilities to be validated: WDBF for DL, DMRS-BF-EQ for PUSCH |
| PTC2 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, BFW BFP 8 bits, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), PUSCH data IQ bitwidth (8 bits or 9 bits), Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer |

Table A.3.1.8-3: Capability to be reported or validated for NR TDD IOT M-MIMO profile 5 in U-Plane DL data transfer test

| PTCs |  |
| --- | --- |
| PTC1 | Capabilities to be validated: WDBF for DL |
| PTC1 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, BFW Fixed point 12 bits, DMRS-BF-EQ for PUSCH, Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), PUSCH data IQ bitwidth (8 bits or 9 bits) |
| PTC2 | Capabilities to be validated: WDBF for DL |
| PTC2 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, BFW BFP 8 bits, DMRS-BF-EQ for PUSCH, Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), PUSCH data IQ bitwidth (8 bits or 9 bits) |

Table A.3.1.8-4: Capability to be reported or validated for NR TDD IOT M-MIMO profile 5 in U-Plane data UL transfer test

| PTCs |  |
| --- | --- |
| PTC1 | Capabilities to be validated: DMRS-BF-EQ for PUSCH |
| PTC1 | Capabilities to be reported: WDBF or PDBF for DL, BFW Fixed point 12 bits, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), PUSCH data IQ bitwidth (8 bits or 9 bits), Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer |
| PTC2 | Capabilities to be validated: DMRS-BF-EQ for PUSCH |
| PTC2 | Capabilities to be reported: WDBF or PDBF for DL, BFW BFP 8 bits, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), PUSCH data IQ bitwidth (8 bits or 9 bits), Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer |

#### A.3.1.9  NR TDD IOT M-MIMO Profile 6 - NR-TDD-FR1-CAT-B-mMIMO-WDBF-DMRS-BF-NEQ-Base

Table A.3.1.9-1 describes the base profile. The following PTCs are defined.

- 1)	NR-TDD-FR1-CAT-B-mMIMO-WDBF-DMRS-BF-NEQ-Base_PTC1_[12bitFP.BFW]
- 2)	NR-TDD-FR1-CAT-B-mMIMO-WDBF-DMRS-BF-NEQ-Base_PTC2_[8bitBFP.BFW]
Table A.3.1.9-1: NR TDD IOT M-MIMO Profile 6: NR-TDD-FR1-CAT-B-mMIMO-WDBF-DMRS-BF-NEQ-Base

| Category | Item | Related O-RAN CUS-Plane specification section(s) |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| General | Radio access technology | - | NR TDD |
| General | TDD configuration | - | DDDSUUDDDD |
| General | Nominal sub-carrier spacing | - | 30kHz |
| General | SSB sub-carrier spacing | - | 30kHz |
| General | Nominal FFT size |  | 4096 |
| General | Total channel bandwidth | - | 100MHz x 1 CC |
| General | Number of user layers | - | DL: 2 – 16 UL: 2 – 8 |
| General | Fronthaul Ethernet link | - | 25Gbps x 1 lane |
| General | PRACH preamble format | - | O-RU REQ: F0 |
| General | O-RU category | 4.2.1 | Category B |
| General | LAA | 7.2.5 | N/A |
| Delay management, general | Network delay determination | 4.4.4 | Defined Transport Method |
| Delay management, general | O-RU adaptation of delay profile information (based on lls-CU delay profile and transport delay) | 4.4.4.3 | NOT REQ |
| Delay management, general | O-DU timing advance type | 4.4.5-4.4.6, Annex B | REQ: Fixed timing Advance |
| Delay management, general | SRS transfer | 4.4.7 | REQ: Non-delay managed U-Plane |
| Delay management, default | Delay Sets for timing parameters |  | REQ: Table A.4.1-1 |
| Delay management, default | T12_max | 4.4, Annex B | 160us |
| Delay management, default | T12_min | 4.4, Annex B | 0us |
| Delay management, default | T34_max | 4.4, Annex B | 160us |
| Delay management, default | T34_min | 4.4, Annex B | 0us |
| Delay management, non default | non-default beamforming methods #1 | 12.6.3 | REQ: DMRS-BF-NEQ |
| Delay management, non default | Delay Sets for timing parameters |  | REQ: Table A.4.3-1 |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport encapsulation | 5.1.1-5.1.2 | Ethernet |
| C/U-Plane transport | Jumbo frames | 5.1.2 | NOT REQ |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport header | 5.1.3 | REQ: eCPRI |
| C/U-Plane transport | eCPRI concatenation | 5.1.3.2 | NOT REQ |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID DU_Port_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | O-RU REQ: 3 and 2 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID BandSector_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | O-RU REQ: 2 and 3 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID CC_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | O-RU REQ: 3 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID RU_Port_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | O-RU REQ: 8 |
| C/U-Plane transport | Fragmentation | 5.5 | Application layer fragmentation  REQ |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport prioritization across C/U/S/M-Plane | 5.3 | Default L2 CoS Priority REQ |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport prioritization within U-Plane | 5.3 | NOT REQ |
| C/U-Plane transport | Separation of C/U-Plane and M-Plane traffic | 5.4 | VLAN ID REQ |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport-based separation within C/U-Plane traffic | 5.4 | NOT REQ |
| Digital Power Scaling | UL gain_correction (not applicable to  DMRS-BF-EQ) | 8.1.3.2 | 0 dB |
| Digital Power Scaling | equalization-data-scaling | 12.6.3.5 | N/A |
| Beamforming | O-RU beamforming type | 4.2.1 | REQ: Digital beamforming |
| Beamforming | Beamforming control method | 7.2.1, 12.6, Annex J | DL: REQ: WDBF and PDBF UL: REQ: DMRS-BF for PUSCH, WDBF or PDBF for non-PUSCH |
| Beamforming | BFW IQ | 7.7.1, Annex J | REQ PTC1: Fixed point, 12 bits PTC2: BFP, 8 bits |
| IQ compression | U-Plane data compression method | 8, Annex A | REQ: BFP |
| IQ compression | U-Plane (DL/UL) data IQ bitwidth | 8, Annex D | DL: REQ: 9 bits UL: REQ: 9 bits |
| IQ compression | IQ data frame format not including udCompHdr field | 8.3.3.13 | REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 0 | 7.4.2 | O-RU REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 1 | 7.4.3 | REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 3 | 7.4.5 | REQ (for PRACH ) |
| C-Plane | Section Type 4 | 7.4.6 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 5 | 7.4.7 | REQ (for DMRS-BF) |
| C-Plane | Section Type 6 | 7.4.8 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 7 | 7.4.9 | N/A |
| C-Plane | Section Type 8 | 7.4.10 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 9 | 7.4.11 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 10 | 7.4.12 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 11 | 7.4.13 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | "symInc" flag | 7.5.3.3 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | C-Plane for PRACH formats with preamble repetition | 7.2.3.4 | REQ: Single C-Plane message |
| C-Plane | Section extension 1 (beamforming weights) | 7.7.1 | REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 2 (beamforming attributes) | 7.7.2 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 3 (DL Precoding configuration parameters and indications) | 7.7.3 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 4 (modulation compr. params) | 7.7.4 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 5 (modulation compression additional scaling parameters) | 7.7.5 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 6 (Non-contiguous PRB allocation) | 7.7.6 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 7 (Multiple-eAxC designation) | 7.7.7 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 8 (regularization factor) | 7.7.8 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 9 (Dynamic Spectrum Sharing parameters) | 7.7.9 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 10 (Multiple ports grouping) | 7.7.10 | REQ (for DMRS-BF) |
| C-Plane | Section extension 11 (Flexible BF weights) | 7.7.11 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 12 | 7.7.12 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 13 | 7.7.13 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 14 | 7.7.14 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 15 | 7.7.15 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 16 | 7.7.16 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 17 | 7.7.17 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 18 | 7.7.18 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 19 | 7.7.19 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 20 | 7.7.20 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 21 | 7.7.21 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 22 | 7.7.22 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 23 | 7.7.23 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 24 | 7.7.24 | REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 25 | 7.7.25 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 26 | 7.7.26 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 27 | 7.7.27 | NOT REQ |
| DMRS-BF | Port reduced DMRS data sending | 12.6.3.1 | REQ |
| DMRS-BF | User group self assembly | 7.7.24 | N/A |
| DMRS-BF | Per-window symbol reordering with DMRS sending | 7.7.25, 12.6.1.5 | NOT REQ |
| DMRS-BF | Per section tx-window reassignment | 7.7.25, 12.6.1.5 | NOT REQ |
| DMRS-BF | symbolid meaining when reordering (up-symbolId-type-supported) | 7.7.25 | N/A |
| DMRS-BF | Transform precoding supported | 7.7.24 | O-RU REQ |
| DMRS-BF | PUSCH and DMRS mux supported | 7.7.24 | NOT REQ |
| DMRS-BF | DMRS configuration Type (dType) | 7.7.24, 7.7.24.14 | REQ: Type 1 (dType=0) |
| DMRS-BF | dmrsSymbolMask | 7.7.24 | REQ: 1+1 (symbol location: 2, 11) |
| DMRS-BF | different-transform-precoding-in-user-group-supported | 7.7.24 | NOT REQ |
| DMRS-BF | different-cdm-without-data-in-user-group-supported | 7.7.24 | NOT REQ |
| Measurements | SINR reporting | 7.2.11, 7.4.11 | N/A |
| Measurements | MEAS-UE-TAE (UE timing advance error) | 9.2.1 | NOT REQ. O-RU declares feature DMRS-BF-NEQ-UNALTERED-TAE. |
| Measurements | MEAS-UE-LAYER-POWER | 9.2.1 | NOT REQ |
| Measurements | MEAS-UE-FREQ-OFFSET | 9.2.1 | NOT REQ. O-RU declares feature DMRS-BF-NEQ-UNALTERED-FREQ-OFFSET. |
| Measurements | MEAS-IPN-ALLOC | 9.2.1 | NOT REQ |
| Measurements | MEAS-IPN-UNALLOC | 9.2.1 | NOT REQ |
| Measurements | MEAS-ANT-DMRS-SNR | 9.2.1 | NOT REQ |
| S-Plane | PTP Full Timing Support (G.8275.1) | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | REQ |
| S-Plane | PTP Partial Timing Support (G.8275.2) | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | NOT REQ |
| S-Plane | Local PRTC | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | N/A |
| S-Plane | Topology configuration | 11.2.2, 11.2.3 (for PLFS) | REQ: LLS-C1 or LLS-C3 |

Table A.3.1.9-2 lists “to be reported” and “to be validated” capabilities in radio layer 3 C-plane establishment and initial radio U-plane data transfer test. Table A.3.1.9-3 lists “to be reported” and “to be validated” capabilities in U-plane DL data transfer test. Table A.3.1.9-4 lists “to be reported” and “to be validated” capabilities in U-plane UL data transfer test.

| PTCs |  |
| --- | --- |
| PTC1 | Capabilities to be validated: WDBF for DL, DMRS-BF-NEQ for PUSCH |
| PTC1 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, BFW Fixed point 12 bits, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer |
| PTC2 | Capabilities to be validated: WDBF for DL, DMRS-BF-NEQ for PUSCH |
| PTC2 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, BFW BFP 8 bits, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer |

| PTCs |  |
| --- | --- |
| PTC1 | Capabilities to be validated: WDBF for DL |
| PTC1 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, BFW Fixed point 12 bits, DMRS-BF-NEQ for PUSCH, Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338) |
| PTC2 | Capabilities to be validated: WDBF for DL |
| PTC2 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, BFW BFP 8 bits, DMRS-BF-NEQ for PUSCH, Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338) |

| PTCs |  |
| --- | --- |
| PTC1 | Capabilities to be validated: DMRS-BF-NEQ for PUSCH |
| PTC1 | Capabilities to be reported: WDBF or PDBF for DL, BFW Fixed point 12 bits, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer |
| PTC2 | Capabilities to be validated: DMRS-BF-NEQ for PUSCH |
| PTC2 | Capabilities to be reported: WDBF or PDBF for DL, BFW BFP 8 bits, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer |

#### A.3.1.10  NR TDD IOT M-MIMO Profile 7 - NR-TDD-FR1-CAT-B-mMIMO-WDBF-DMRS-BF-EQ-Enhanced

Table A.3.1.10-1 describes the base profile. The following PTCs are defined.

- 1)	NR-TDD-FR1-CAT-B-mMIMO-WDBF-DMRS-BF-EQ-Enh_PTC1_[12bitFP.BFW-nondelay.SRS-SE4.ModComp-noSE5-noSE6-noSE11-noSE12-noSE23-noSE27-noSelRE-noSA]
- 2)	NR-TDD-FR1-CAT-B-mMIMO-WDBF-DMRS-BF-EQ-Enh_PTC2_[8bitBFP.BFW-nondelay.SRS-SE4.ModComp-noSE5-noSE6-noSE11-noSE12-noSE23-noSE27-noSelRE-noSA]
- 3)	NR-TDD-FR1-CAT-B-mMIMO-WDBF-DMRS-BF-EQ-Enh_PTC3_[8bitBFP.BFW-nondelay.SRS-SE4.SE5.ModComp-SE6-SE11-SE12-noSE23-noSE27-noSelRE-noSA]
- 4)	NR-TDD-FR1-CAT-B-mMIMO-WDBF-DMRS-BF-EQ-Enh_PTC4_[8bitBFP.BFW-MplaneTxWindow.SRS-SE4.ModComp-noSE5-SE6-SE11-SE12-noSE23-noSE27-noSelRE-noSA]
- 5)	NR-TDD-FR1-CAT-B-mMIMO-WDBF-DMRS-BF-EQ-Enh_PTC5_[8bitBFP.BFW-MplaneTxWindow.SRS-SE4.ModComp-noSE5-SE6-SE11-SE12-noSE23-SE27-noSelRE-noSA]
- 6)	NR-TDD-FR1-CAT-B-mMIMO-WDBF-DMRS-BF-EQ-Enh_PTC6_[8bitBeamSpaceII.8bitBFP.BFW-MplaneTxWindow.SRS-SE4.SE5.ModComp-SE6-SE11-SE12-SE23-noSE27-SelRE-SAID]

| Category | Item | Related O-RAN CUS-Plane specification section(s) |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| General | Radio access technology | - | NR TDD |
| General | TDD configuration | - | DDDSUUDDDD |
| General | Nominal sub-carrier spacing | - | 30kHz |
| General | SSB sub-carrier spacing | - | 30kHz |
| General | Nominal FFT size |  | 4096 |
| General | Total channel bandwidth | - | 100MHz x 1 CC |
| General | Number of user layers | - | DL: 2 – 16 UL: 2 – 8 |
| General | Fronthaul Ethernet link | - | 25Gbps x 1 lane |
| General | PRACH preamble format | - | O-RU REQ: F0 |
| General | O-RU category | 4.2.1 | Category B |
| General | LAA | 7.2.5 | N/A |
| Delay management, general | Network delay determination | 4.4.4 | Defined Transport Method |
| Delay management, general | O-RU adaptation of delay profile information (based on lls-CU delay profile and transport delay) | 4.4.4.3 | NOT REQ |
| Delay management, general | O-DU timing advance type | 4.4.5-4.4.6, Annex B | REQ: Fixed timing Advance |
| Delay management, general | SRS transfer | 4.4.7, 4.6.4 | PTC4, PTC5, PTC6: M-Plane static window control (STATIC-TRANSMISSION-WINDOW-CONTROL) REQ PTC1, PTC2, PTC3: Non-delay managed U-Plane  REQ |
| Delay management, default | Delay Sets for timing parameters |  | REQ: Table A.4.1-1 |
| Delay management, default | T12_max | 4.4, Annex B | 160us |
| Delay management, default | T12_min | 4.4, Annex B | 0us |
| Delay management, default | T34_max | 4.4, Annex B | 160us |
| Delay management, default | T34_min | 4.4, Annex B | 0us |
| Delay management, non default | non-default beamforming methods #1 | 12.6.3 | REQ: DMRS-BF-EQ |
| Delay management, non default | Delay Sets for timing parameters |  | REQ: Table A.4.3-1 |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport encapsulation | 5.1.1-5.1.2 | Ethernet |
| C/U-Plane transport | Jumbo frames | 5.1.2 | O-RU REQ |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport header | 5.1.3 | REQ: eCPRI |
| C/U-Plane transport | eCPRI concatenation | 5.1.3.2 | NOT REQ |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID DU_Port_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | O-RU REQ: 3 and 2 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID BandSector_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | O-RU REQ: 2 and 3 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID CC_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | O-RU REQ: 3 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID RU_Port_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | O-RU REQ: 8 |
| C/U-Plane transport | Fragmentation | 5.5 | Application layer fragmentation  REQ |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport prioritization across C/U/S/M-Plane | 5.3 | Default L2 CoS Priority REQ |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport prioritization within U-Plane | 5.3 | NOT REQ |
| C/U-Plane transport | Separation of C/U-Plane and M-Plane traffic | 5.4 | VLAN ID REQ |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport-based separation within C/U-Plane traffic | 5.4 | NOT REQ |
| Digital Power Scaling | UL gain_correction (not applicable to  DMRS-BF-EQ) | 8.1.3.2 | 0 dB |
| Digital Power Scaling | equalization-data-scaling | 12.6.3.5 | REQ: Scaling-function1 or Scaling-function2 |
| Beamforming | O-RU beamforming type | 4.2.1 | REQ: Digital beamforming |
| Beamforming | Beamforming control method | 7.2.1, 12.6, Annex J | DL: REQ: WDBF and PDBF UL: REQ: DMRS-BF for PUSCH, WDBF or PDBF for non-PUSCH |
| Beamforming | BFW IQ | 7.7.1, Annex J | REQ:  PTC1: Fixed point, 12 bits PTC2, PTC3, PTC4, PTC5: BFP, 8 bits O-RU REQ: PTC6: Beamspace compression Type II (8 bits) and BFP (8 bits) |
| IQ compression | U-Plane data compression method | 8, Annex A | DL: O-RU REQ PTC1, PTC2, PTC3, PTC4, PTC5: Mod Comp, no sel RE PTC6: Mod Comp, with sel RE. UL: REQ BFP |
| IQ compression | U-Plane (DL/UL) data IQ bitwidth | 8, Annex D | REQ for Mod Comp in DL: 4 bits  for BFP in UL: 8 and 9 bits for DMRS-BF and 9 bits for other BF methods |
| IQ compression | IQ data frame format not including udCompHdr field | 8.3.3.13 | REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 0 | 7.4.2 | O-RU REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 1 | 7.4.3 | REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 3 | 7.4.5 | REQ (for PRACH ) |
| C-Plane | Section Type 4 | 7.4.6 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 5 | 7.4.7 | REQ (for DMRS-BF) |
| C-Plane | Section Type 6 | 7.4.8 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 7 | 7.4.9 | N/A |
| C-Plane | Section Type 8 | 7.4.10 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 9 | 7.4.11 | REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 10 | 7.4.12 | REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 11 | 7.4.13 | O-RU REQ |
| C-Plane | "symInc" flag | 7.5.3.3 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | C-Plane for PRACH formats with preamble repetition | 7.2.3.4 | REQ: Single C-Plane message |
| C-Plane | Section extension 1 (beamforming weights) | 7.7.1 | REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 2 (beamforming attributes) | 7.7.2 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 3 (DL Precoding configuration parameters and indications) | 7.7.3 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 4 (modulation compr. params) | 7.7.4 | O-RU REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 5 (modulation compression additional scaling parameters) | 7.7.5 | PTC1, PTC2, PTC,4, PTC5: NOT REQ PTC3, PTC6: O-RU REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 6 (Non-contiguous PRB allocation) | 7.7.6 | PTC1, PTC2: NOT REQ PTC3, PTC4, PTC5, PTC6: O-RU REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 7 (Multiple-eAxC designation) | 7.7.7 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 8 (regularization factor) | 7.7.8 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 9 (Dynamic Spectrum Sharing parameters) | 7.7.9 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 10 (Multiple ports grouping) | 7.7.10 | REQ (for DMRS-BF) |
| C-Plane | Section extension 11 (Flexible BF weights) | 7.7.11 | PTC1, PTC2: NOT REQ PTC3, PTC4, PTC5, PTC6: REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 12 | 7.7.12 | PTC1, PTC2: NOT REQ PTC3, PTC4, PTC5, PTC6: O-RU REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 13 | 7.7.13 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 14 | 7.7.14 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 15 | 7.7.15 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 16 | 7.7.16 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 17 | 7.7.17 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 18 | 7.7.18 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 19 | 7.7.19 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 20 | 7.7.20 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 21 | 7.7.21 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 22 | 7.7.22 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 23 | 7.7.23 | PTC1, PTC2, PTC3, PTC4, PTC5: NOT REQ PTC6: O-RU REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 24 | 7.7.24 | REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 25 | 7.7.25 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 26 | 7.7.26 | O-RU REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 27 | 7.7.27 | PTC1, PTC2, PTC3, PTC4, PTC6: NOT REQ PTC5: REQ |
| DMRS-BF | Port reduced DMRS data sending | 12.6.3.1 | O-RU REQ |
| DMRS-BF | User group self assembly | 7.7.24 | PTC1, PTC2, PTC3, PTC4, PTC5: NOT REQ (no self-assembly = noSA) PTC6: O-RU REQ: SAID (self assembly with id) |
| DMRS-BF | Per-window symbol reordering with DMRS sending | 7.7.25, 12.6.1.5 | NOT REQ |
| DMRS-BF | Per section tx-window reassignment | 7.7.25, 12.6.1.5 | NOT REQ |
| DMRS-BF | symbolid meaining when reordering (up-symbolId-type-supporte) | 7.7.25 | N/A |
| DMRS-BF | Transform precoding supported | 7.7.24 | O-RU REQ |
| DMRS-BF | PUSCH and DMRS mux supported | 7.7.24 | O-RU REQ |
| DMRS-BF | DMRS configuration Type (dType) | 7.7.24, 7.7.24.14 | REQ: Type 1 (dType=0) |
| DMRS-BF | dmrsSymbolMask | 7.7.24 | REQ: 1+1 (symbol location: 2, 11) |
| DMRS-BF | different-transform-precoding-in-user-group-supported | 7.7.24 | NOT REQ |
| DMRS-BF | different-cdm-without-data-in-user-group-supported | 7.7.24 | NOT REQ |
| Measurements | SINR reporting | 7.2.11, 7.4.11 | O-RU REQ |
| Measurements | MEAS-UE-TAE (UE timing advance error) | 9.2.1 | O-RU REQ |
| Measurements | MEAS-UE-LAYER-POWER | 9.2.1 | O-RU REQ |
| Measurements | MEAS-UE-FREQ-OFFSET | 9.2.1 | O-RU REQ |
| Measurements | MEAS-IPN-ALLOC | 9.2.1 | O-RU REQ |
| Measurements | MEAS-IPN-UNALLOC | 9.2.1 | O-RU REQ |
| Measurements | MEAS-ANT-DMRS-SNR | 9.2.1 | NOT REQ |
| S-Plane | PTP Full Timing Support (G.8275.1) | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | REQ |
| S-Plane | PTP Partial Timing Support (G.8275.2) | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | NOT REQ |
| S-Plane | Local PRTC | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | N/A |
| S-Plane | Topology configuration | 11.2.2, 11.2.3 (for PLFS) | REQ: LLS-C1 or LLS-C3 |

Table A.3.1.10-2 lists “to be reported” and “to be validated” capabilities in radio layer 3 C-plane establishment and initial radio U-plane data transfer test. Table A.3.1.10-3 lists “to be reported” and “to be validated” capabilities in U-plane DL data transfer test. Table A.3.1.10-4 lists “to be reported” and “to be validated” capabilities in U-plane UL data transfer test.

| PTCs |  |
| --- | --- |
| PTC1 | Capabilities to be validated: WDBF for DL, DMRS-BF-EQ for PUSCH, modulation compression |
| PTC1 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, BFW Fixed point 12 bits, SE4, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), PUSCH data IQ bitwidth (8 bits or 9 bits), Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer |
| PTC2 | Capabilities to be validated: WDBF for DL, DMRS-BF-EQ for PUSCH, modulation compression |
| PTC2 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, BFW BFP 8 bits, SE4, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), PUSCH data IQ bitwidth (8 bits or 9 bits), Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer |
| PTC3 | Capabilities to be validated: WDBF for DL, DMRS-BF-EQ for PUSCH, modulation compression |
| PTC3 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, BFW BFP 8 bits, SE4, SE5, SE6, SE12, SE11, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), PUSCH data IQ bitwidth (8 bits or 9 bits), Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer |
| PTC4 | Capabilities to be validated: WDBF for DL, DMRS-BF-EQ for PUSCH, modulation compression |
| PTC4 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, BFW BFP 8 bits, SE4, SE6, SE12, SE11, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), PUSCH data IQ bitwidth (8 bits or 9 bits), M-Plane static window control for SRS transfer |
| PTC5 | Capabilities to be validated: WDBF for DL, DMRS-BF-EQ for PUSCH, modulation compression |
| PTC5 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, BFW BFP 8 bits, SE4, SE6,.SE12, SE11, SE27, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), PUSCH data IQ bitwidth (8 bits or 9 bits), M-Plane static window control for SRS transfer |
| PTC6 | Capabilities to be validated: WDBF for DL, DMRS-BF-EQ for PUSCH, modulation compression |
| PTC6 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, BFW Beamspace II + BFP 8 bits, SE4, SE5, SE6, SE12, SE11, SE23, Selective RE sending, User group self assembly, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), PUSCH data IQ bitwidth (8 bits or 9 bits), M-Plane static window control for SRS transfer |

| PTCs |  |
| --- | --- |
| PTC1 | Capabilities to be validated: WDBF for DL, modulation compression |
| PTC1 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, PUSCH-BF-EQ for PUSCH, Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer, BFW Fixed point 12 bits, SE4, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), PUSCH data IQ bitwidth (8 bits or 9 bits) |
| PTC2 | Capabilities to be validated: WDBF for DL, modulation compression |
| PTC2 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, PUSCH-BF-EQ for PUSCH, Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer, BFW BFP 8 bits, SE4, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), PUSCH data IQ bitwidth (8 bits or 9 bits) |
| PTC3 | Capabilities to be validated: WDBF for DL, modulation compression |
| PTC3 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, PUSCH-BF-EQ for PUSCH, Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer, BFW BFP 8 bits, SE4, SE5, SE6, SE12, SE11, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), PUSCH data IQ bitwidth (8 bits or 9 bits) |
| PTC4 | Capabilities to be validated: WDBF for DL, modulation compression |
| PTC4 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, PUSCH-BF-EQ for PUSCH, M-Plane static window control for SRS transfer, BFW BFP 8 bits, SE4, SE6, SE12, SE11, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), PUSCH data IQ bitwidth (8 bits or 9 bits) |
| PTC5 | Capabilities to be validated: WDBF for DL, modulation compression |
| PTC5 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, PUSCH-BF-EQ for PUSCH, M-Plane static window control for SRS transfer, BFW BFP 8 bits, SE4, SE6, SE12, SE11, SE27, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), PUSCH data IQ bitwidth (8 bits or 9 bits) |
| PTC6 | Capabilities to be validated: WDBF for DL, modulation compression |
| PTC6 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, PUSCH-BF-EQ for PUSCH, M-Plane static window control for SRS transfer, BFW Beamspace II + BFP 8 bits, SE4, SE5, SE6, SE12, SE11, SE23, Selective RE sending, User group self assembly, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), PUSCH data IQ bitwidth (8 bits or 9 bits) |

| PTCs |  |
| --- | --- |
| PTC1 | Capabilities to be validated: DMRS-BF-EQ for PUSCH, modulation compression |
| PTC1 | Capabilities to be reported: WDBF or PDBF for DL, BFW Fixed point 12 bits, SE4, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), PUSCH data IQ bitwidth (8 bits or 9 bits), Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer |
| PTC2 | Capabilities to be validated: DMRS-BF-EQ for PUSCH, modulation compression |
| PTC2 | Capabilities to be reported: WDBF or PDBF for DL, BFW BFP 8 bits, SE4, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), PUSCH data IQ bitwidth (8 bits or 9 bits), Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer |
| PTC3 | Capabilities to be validated: DMRS-BF-EQ for PUSCH, modulation compression |
| PTC3 | Capabilities to be reported: WDBF or PDBF for DL, BFW BFP 8 bits, SE4, SE5, SE6, SE12, SE11, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), PUSCH data IQ bitwidth (8 bits or 9 bits), Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer |
| PTC4 | Capabilities to be validated: DMRS-BF-EQ for PUSCH, modulation compression |
| PTC4 | Capabilities to be reported: WDBF or PDBF for DL, BFW BFP 8 bits, SE4, SE6, SE12, SE11, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), PUSCH data IQ bitwidth (8 bits or 9 bits), M-Plane static window control for SRS transfer |
| PTC5 | Capabilities to be validated: DMRS-BF-EQ for PUSCH, modulation compression |
| PTC5 | Capabilities to be reported: WDBF or PDBF for DL, BFW BFP 8 bits, SE4, SE6, SE12, SE11, SE27, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), PUSCH data IQ bitwidth (8 bits or 9 bits), M-Plane static window control for SRS transfer |
| PTC6 | Capabilities to be validated: DMRS-BF-EQ for PUSCH, modulation compression |
| PTC6 | Capabilities to be reported: WDBF or PDBF for DL, BFW Beamspace II + BFP 8 bits, SE4, SE5, SE6, SE12, SE11, SE23, Selective RE sending, User group self assembly, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), PUSCH data IQ bitwidth (8 bits or 9 bits), M-Plane static window control for SRS transfer |

#### A.3.1.11  NR TDD IOT M-MIMO Profile 8 - NR-TDD-FR1-CAT-B-mMIMO-WDBF-DMRS-BF-NEQ-Enhanced

Table A.3.1.11-1 describes the base profile. The following PTCs are defined.

- 1)	NR-TDD-FR1-CAT-B-mMIMO-WDBF-DMRS-BF-NEQ-Enh_PTC1_[12bitFP.BFW-nondelay.SRS-SE4.ModComp-noSE5-noSE6-noSE11-noSE12-noSE23-noSE27-noSelRE-noSA]
- 2)	NR-TDD-FR1-CAT-B-mMIMO-WDBF-DMRS-BF-NEQ-Enh_PTC2_[8bitBFP.BFW-nondelay.SRS-SE4.ModComp-noSE5-noSE6-noSE11-noSE12-noSE23-noSE27-noSelRE-noSA]
- 3)	NR-TDD-FR1-CAT-B-mMIMO-WDBF-DMRS-BF-NEQ-Enh_PTC3_[8bitBFP.BFW-nondelay.SRS-SE4.SE5.ModComp-SE6-SE11-SE12--noSE23-noSE27-noSelRE-noSA]
- 4)	NR-TDD-FR1-CAT-B-mMIMO-WDBF-DMRS-BF-NEQ-Enh_PTC4_[8bitBFP.BFW-MplaneTxWindow.SRS-SE4.ModComp-noSE5-SE6-SE11-SE12-noSE23-noSE27-noSelRE-noSA]
- 5)	NR-TDD-FR1-CAT-B-mMIMO-WDBF-DMRS-BF-NEQ-Enh_PTC5_[8bitBFP.BFW-MplaneTxWindow.SRS-SE4.ModComp-noSE5-SE6-SE11-SE12-noSE23-SE27-noSelRE-noSA]
- 6)	NR-TDD-FR1-CAT-B-mMIMO-WDBF-DMRS-BF-NEQ-Enh_PTC6_[8bitBeamSpaceII.8bitBFP.BFW-MplaneTxWindow.SRS-SE4.SE5.ModComp-SE6-SE11-SE12-SE23-noSE27-SelRE-SAID]

| Category | Item | Related O-RAN CUS-Plane specification section(s) |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| General | Radio access technology | - | NR TDD |
| General | TDD configuration | - | DDDSUUDDDD |
| General | Nominal sub-carrier spacing | - | 30kHz |
| General | SSB sub-carrier spacing | - | 30kHz |
| General | Nominal FFT size |  | 4096 |
| General | Total channel bandwidth | - | 100MHz x 1 CC |
| General | Number of user layers | - | DL: 2 – 16 UL: 2 – 8 |
| General | Fronthaul Ethernet link | - | 25Gbps x 1 lane |
| General | PRACH preamble format | - | O-RU REQ: F0 |
| General | O-RU category | 4.2.1 | Category B |
| General | LAA | 7.2.5 | N/A |
| Delay management, general | Network delay determination | 4.4.4 | Defined Transport Method |
| Delay management, general | O-RU adaptation of delay profile information (based on lls-CU delay profile and transport delay) | 4.4.4.3 | NOT REQ |
| Delay management, general | O-DU timing advance type | 4.4.5-4.4.6, Annex B | REQ: Fixed timing Advance |
| Delay management, general | SRS transfer | 4.4.7, 4.6.4 | PTC4, PTC5, PTC6: M-Plane static window control (STATIC-TRANSMISSION-WINDOW-CONTROL) REQ PTC1, PTC2, PTC3: Non-delay managed U-Plane  REQ |
| Delay management, default | Delay Sets for timing parameters |  | REQ: Table A.4.1-1 |
| Delay management, default | T12_max | 4.4, Annex B | 160us |
| Delay management, default | T12_min | 4.4, Annex B | 0us |
| Delay management, default | T34_max | 4.4, Annex B | 160us |
| Delay management, default | T34_min | 4.4, Annex B | 0us |
| Delay management, non default | non-default beamforming methods #1 | 12.6.3 | REQ: DMRS-BF-NEQ |
| Delay management, non default | Delay Sets for timing parameters |  | REQ: Table A.4.3-1 |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport encapsulation | 5.1.1-5.1.2 | Ethernet |
| C/U-Plane transport | Jumbo frames | 5.1.2 | O-RU REQ |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport header | 5.1.3 | REQ: eCPRI |
| C/U-Plane transport | eCPRI concatenation | 5.1.3.2 | NOT REQ |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID DU_Port_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | O-RU REQ: 3 and 2 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID BandSector_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | O-RU REQ: 2 and 3 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID CC_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | O-RU REQ: 3 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID RU_Port_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | O-RU REQ: 8 |
| C/U-Plane transport | Fragmentation | 5.5 | Application layer fragmentation REQ |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport prioritization across C/U/S/M-Plane | 5.3 | Default L2 CoS Priority REQ |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport prioritization within U-Plane | 5.3 | NOT REQ |
| C/U-Plane transport | Separation of C/U-Plane and M-Plane traffic | 5.4 | VLAN ID REQ |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport-based separation within C/U-Plane traffic | 5.4 | NOT REQ |
| Digital Power Scaling | UL gain_correction (not applicable to  DMRS-BF-EQ) | 8.1.3.2 | 0 dB |
| Digital Power Scaling | equalization-data-scaling | 12.6.3.5 | N/A |
| Beamforming | O-RU beamforming type | 4.2.1 | REQ: Digital beamforming |
| Beamforming | Beamforming control method | 7.2.1, 12.6, Annex J | DL: REQ: WDBF and PDBF UL: REQ: DMRS-BF for PUSCH, WDBF or PDBF for non-PUSCH |
| Beamforming | BFW IQ | 7.7.1, Annex J | REQ  PTC1: Fixed point, 12 bits PTC2, PTC3, PTC4, PTC5: BFP, 8 bits O-RU REQ PTC6: Beamspace compression Type II (8 bits) and BFP (8 bits) |
| IQ compression | U-Plane data compression method | 8, Annex A | DL: O-RU REQ PTC1, PTC2, PTC3, PTC4, PTC5: Mod Comp, no sel RE PTC6: Mod Comp, with sel RE. UL: REQ BFP |
| IQ compression | U-Plane (DL/UL) data IQ bitwidth | 8, Annex D | DL: REQ: Mod Comp with 4 bits UL: REQ: BFP with 9 bits |
| IQ compression | IQ data frame format not including udCompHdr field | 8.3.3.13 | REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 0 | 7.4.2 | O-RU REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 1 | 7.4.3 | REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 3 | 7.4.5 | REQ (for PRACH ) |
| C-Plane | Section Type 4 | 7.4.6 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 5 | 7.4.7 | REQ (for DMRS-BF) |
| C-Plane | Section Type 6 | 7.4.8 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 7 | 7.4.9 | N/A |
| C-Plane | Section Type 8 | 7.4.10 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 9 | 7.4.11 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 10 | 7.4.12 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 11 | 7.4.13 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | "symInc" flag | 7.5.3.3 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | C-Plane for PRACH formats with preamble repetition | 7.2.3.4 | REQ: Single C-Plane message |
| C-Plane | Section extension 1 (beamforming weights) | 7.7.1 | REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 2 (beamforming attributes) | 7.7.2 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 3 (DL Precoding configuration parameters and indications) | 7.7.3 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 4 (modulation compr. params) | 7.7.4 | O-RU REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 5 (modulation compression additional scaling parameters) | 7.7.5 | PTC1, PTC2, PTC4, PTC5: NOT REQ PTC3, PTC6: O-RU REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 6 (Non-contiguous PRB allocation) | 7.7.6 | PTC1, PTC2: NOT REQ PTC3, PTC4, PTC5, PTC6: O-RU REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 7 (Multiple-eAxC designation) | 7.7.7 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 8 (regularization factor) | 7.7.8 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 9 (Dynamic Spectrum Sharing parameters) | 7.7.9 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 10 (Multiple ports grouping) | 7.7.10 | REQ (for DMRS-BF) |
| C-Plane | Section extension 11 (Flexible BF weights) | 7.7.11 | PTC1, PTC2: NOT REQ PTC3, PTC4, PTC5, PTC6: O-RU REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 12 | 7.7.12 | PTC1, PTC2: NOT REQ PTC3, PTC4, PTC5, PTC6: O-RU REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 13 | 7.7.13 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 14 | 7.7.14 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 15 | 7.7.15 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 16 | 7.7.16 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 17 | 7.7.17 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 18 | 7.7.18 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 19 | 7.7.19 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 20 | 7.7.20 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 21 | 7.7.21 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 22 | 7.7.22 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 23 | 7.7.23 | PTC1, PTC2, PTC3, PTC4, PTC5: NOT REQ PTC6: O-RU REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 24 | 7.7.24 | REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 25 | 7.7.25 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 26 | 7.7.26 | O-RU REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 27 | 7.7.27 | PTC1, PTC2, PTC3, PTC4, PTC6: NOT REQ PTC5: REQ |
| DMRS-BF | Port reduced DMRS data sending | 12.6.3.1 | REQ |
| DMRS-BF | User group self assembly | 7.7.24 | PTC1, PTC2, PTC3, PTC4, PTC5: NOT REQ (no self-assembly = noSA) PTC6: O-RU REQ: SAID (self assembly with id) |
| DMRS-BF | Per-window symbol reordering with DMRS sending | 7.7.25, 12.6.1.5 | NOT REQ |
| DMRS-BF | Per section tx-window reassignment | 7.7.25, 12.6.1.5 | NOT REQ |
| DMRS-BF | symbolid meaining when reordering (up-symbolId-type-supporte) | 7.7.25 | N/A |
| DMRS-BF | Transform precoding supported | 7.7.24 | O-RU REQ |
| DMRS-BF | PUSCH and DMRS mux supported | 7.7.24 | O-RU REQ |
| DMRS-BF | DMRS configuration Type (dType) | 7.7.24, 7.7.24.14 | REQ: Type 1 (dType=0) |
| DMRS-BF | dmrsSymbolMask | 7.7.24 | REQ: 1+1 (symbol location: 2, 11) |
| DMRS-BF | different-transform-precoding-in-user-group-supported | 7.7.24 | NOT REQ |
| DMRS-BF | different-cdm-without-data-in-user-group-supported | 7.7.24 | NOT REQ |
| Measurements | SINR reporting | 7.2.11, 7.4.11 | N/A |
| Measurements | MEAS-UE-TAE (UE timing advance error) | 9.2.1 | NOT REQ. O-RU declares feature DMRS-BF-NEQ-UNALTERED-TAE. |
| Measurements | MEAS-UE-LAYER-POWER | 9.2.1 | NOT REQ |
| Measurements | MEAS-UE-FREQ-OFFSET | 9.2.1 | NOT REQ. O-RU declares feature DMRS-BF-NEQ-UNALTERED-FREQ-OFFSET. |
| Measurements | MEAS-IPN-ALLOC | 9.2.1 | NOT REQ |
| Measurements | MEAS-IPN-UNALLOC | 9.2.1 | NOT REQ |
| Measurements | MEAS-ANT-DMRS-SNR | 9.2.1 | NOT REQ |
| S-Plane | PTP Full Timing Support (G.8275.1) | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | REQ |
| S-Plane | PTP Partial Timing Support (G.8275.2) | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | NOT REQ |
| S-Plane | Local PRTC | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | N/A |
| S-Plane | Topology configuration | 11.2.2, 11.2.3 (for PLFS) | REQ: LLS-C1 or LLS-C3 |

Table A.3.1.11-2 lists “to be reported” and “to be validated” capabilities in radio layer 3 C-plane establishment and initial radio U-plane data transfer test. Table A.3.1.11-3 lists “to be reported” and “to be validated” capabilities in U-plane DL data transfer test. Table A.3.1.11-4 lists “to be reported” and “to be validated” capabilities in U-plane UL data transfer test.

| PTCs |  |
| --- | --- |
| PTC1 | Capabilities to be validated: WDBF for DL, DMRS-BF-NEQ for PUSCH, modulation compression |
| PTC1 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, BFW Fixed point 12 bits, SE4, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer |
| PTC2 | Capabilities to be validated: WDBF for DL, DMRS-BF-NEQ for PUSCH, modulation compression |
| PTC2 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, BFW BFP 8 bits, SE4, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer |
| PTC3 | Capabilities to be validated: WDBF for DL, DMRS-BF-NEQ for PUSCH, modulation compression |
| PTC3 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, BFW BFP 8 bits, SE4, SE5, SE6, SE12, SE11, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer |
| PTC4 | Capabilities to be validated: WDBF for DL, DMRS-BF-NEQ for PUSCH, modulation compression |
| PTC4 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, BFW BFP 8 bits, SE4, SE6, SE12, SE11, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), M-Plane static window control for SRS transfer |
| PTC5 | Capabilities to be validated: WDBF for DL, DMRS-BF-NEQ for PUSCH, modulation compression |
| PTC5 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, BFW BFP 8 bits, SE4, SE6, SE12, SE11, SE27, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), M-Plane static window control for SRS transfer |
| PTC6 | Capabilities to be validated: WDBF for DL, DMRS-BF-NEQ for PUSCH, modulation compression |
| PTC6 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, BFW Beamspace II + BFP 8 bits, SE4, SE5, SE6, SE12, SE11, SE23, Selective RE sending, User group self assembly, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), M-Plane static window control for SRS transfer |

| PTCs |  |
| --- | --- |
| PTC1 | Capabilities to be validated: WDBF for DL, modulation compression |
| PTC1 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, DMRS-BF-NEQ for PUSCH, Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer, BFW Fixed point 12 bits, SE4, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338) |
| PTC2 | Capabilities to be validated: WDBF for DL, modulation compression |
| PTC2 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, DMRS-BF-NEQ for PUSCH, Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer, BFW BFP 8 bits, SE4, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338) |
| PTC3 | Capabilities to be validated: WDBF for DL, modulation compression |
| PTC3 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, DMRS-BF-NEQ for PUSCH, Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer, BFW BFP 8 bits, SE4, SE5, SE6, SE12, SE11, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338) |
| PTC4 | Capabilities to be validated: WDBF for DL, modulation compression |
| PTC4 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, DMRS-BF-NEQ for PUSCH, M-Plane static window control for SRS transfer, BFW BFP 8 bits, SE4, SE6, SE12, SE11, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338) |
| PTC5 | Capabilities to be validated: WDBF for DL, modulation compression |
| PTC5 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, DMRS-BF-NEQ for PUSCH, M-Plane static window control for SRS transfer, BFW BFP 8 bits, SE4, SE6, SE12, SE11, SE27, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338) |
| PTC6 | Capabilities to be validated: WDBF for DL, modulation compression |
| PTC6 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, DMRS-BF-NEQ for PUSCH, M-Plane static window control for SRS transfer, BFW Beamspace II + BFP 8 bits, SE4, SE5, SE6, SE12, SE11, SE23, Selective RE sending, User group self assembly, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338) |

| PTCs |  |
| --- | --- |
| PTC1 | Capabilities to be validated: DMRS-BF-NEQ for PUSCH, modulation compression |
| PTC1 | Capabilities to be reported: WDBF or PDBF for DL, BFW Fixed point 12 bits, SE4, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer |
| PTC2 | Capabilities to be validated: DMRS-BF-NEQ for PUSCH, modulation compression |
| PTC2 | Capabilities to be reported: WDBF or PDBF for DL, BFW BFP 8 bits, SE4, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer |
| PTC3 | Capabilities to be validated: DMRS-BF-NEQ for PUSCH, modulation compression |
| PTC3 | Capabilities to be reported: WDBF or PDBF for DL, BFW BFP 8 bits, SE4, SE5, SE6, SE12, SE11, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer |
| PTC4 | Capabilities to be validated: DMRS-BF-NEQ for PUSCH, modulation compression |
| PTC4 | Capabilities to be reported: WDBF or PDBF for DL, BFW BFP 8 bits, SE4, SE6, SE12, SE11, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), M-Plane static window control for SRS transfer |
| PTC5 | Capabilities to be validated: DMRS-BF-NEQ for PUSCH, modulation compression |
| PTC5 | Capabilities to be reported: WDBF or PDBF for DL, BFW BFP 8 bits, SE4, SE6, SE12, SE11, SE27, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), M-Plane static window control for SRS transfer |
| PTC6 | Capabilities to be validated: DMRS-BF-NEQ for PUSCH, modulation compression |
| PTC6 | Capabilities to be reported: WDBF or PDBF for DL, BFW Beamspace II + BFP 8 bits, SE4, SE5, SE6, SE12, SE11, SE23, Selective RE sending, User group self assembly, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), M-Plane static window control for SRS transfer |

#### A.3.1.12  NR TDD IOT M-MIMO Profile 9 - NR-TDD-FR1-CAT-B-mMIMO-WDBF-DMRS-BF-EQ-Reordering

Table A.3.1.12-1 shows the base profile. It is expected that re-ordering feature is used when using reordering PTCs for IOT testing. The following PTCs are defined.

- 1)	NR-TDD-FR1-CAT-B-mMIMO-WDBF-DMRS-BF-EQ-Reordering_PTC1_[8bitBFP.BFW-nondelay.SRS-PerWindows.reord-onair.upsymbolId-SE4.ModComp-noSE5-noJumbo]
- 2)	NR-TDD-FR1-CAT-B-mMIMO-WDBF-DMRS-BF-EQ-Reordering_PTC2_[8bitBFP.BFW-nondelay.SRS-PerWindow.reord-txwindow.upsymbolId-SE4.SE5.ModComp-noJumbo]
- 3)	NR-TDD-FR1-CAT-B-mMIMO-WDBF-DMRS-BF-EQ-Reordering_PTC3_[8bitBFP.BFW-MplaneTxWindow.SRS-PerWindows.reord-txwindow.upsymbolId-noModComp-noJumbo]
- 4)	NR-TDD-FR1-CAT-B-mMIMO-WDBF-DMRS-BF-EQ-Reordering_PTC4_[12bitFP.BFW-nondelay.SRS-PerSection.reord-onair.upsymbolId-SE4.ModComp-noSE5-Jumbo]
- 5)	NR-TDD-FR1-CAT-B-mMIMO-WDBF-DMRS-BF-EQ-Reordering_PTC5_[8bitBFP.BFW-MplaneTxWindow.SRS-PerSection.reord-onair.upsymbolId-SE4.ModComp-noSE5-Jumbo]

| Category | Item | Related O-RAN CUS-Plane specification section(s) |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| General | Radio access technology | - | NR TDD |
| General | TDD configuration | - | DDDSUUDDDD |
| General | Nominal sub-carrier spacing | - | 30kHz |
| General | SSB sub-carrier spacing | - | 30kHz |
| General | Nominal FFT size |  | 4096 |
| General | Total channel bandwidth | - | 100MHz x 1 CC |
| General | Number of user layers | - | DL: 2 – 16 UL: 2 – 8 |
| General | Fronthaul Ethernet link | - | 25Gbps x 1 lane |
| General | PRACH preamble format | - | O-RU REQ: F0 |
| General | O-RU category | 4.2.1 | Category B |
| General | LAA | 7.2.5 | N/A |
| Delay management, general | Network delay determination | 4.4.4 | Defined Transport Method |
| Delay management, general | O-RU adaptation of delay profile information (based on lls-CU delay profile and transport delay) | 4.4.4.3 | NOT REQ |
| Delay management, general | O-DU timing advance type | 4.4.5-4.4.6, Annex B | REQ: Fixed timing Advance |
| Delay management, general | SRS transfer | 4.4.7, 4.6.4 | PTC3, PTC5: M-Plane static window control (STATIC-TRANSMISSION-WINDOW-CONTROL) REQ PTC1, PTC2, PTC4: Non-delay managed U-Plane  REQ |
| Delay management, default | Delay Sets for timing parameters |  | REQ: Table A.4.1-1 |
| Delay management, default | T12_max | 4.4, Annex B | 160us |
| Delay management, default | T12_min | 4.4, Annex B | 0us |
| Delay management, default | T34_max | 4.4, Annex B | 160us |
| Delay management, default | T34_min | 4.4, Annex B | 0us |
| Delay management, non default | non-default beamforming methods #1 | 12.6.3 | REQ: DMRS-BF-EQ |
| Delay management, non default | Delay Sets for timing parameters |  | REQ: Table A.4.3-1 |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport encapsulation | 5.1.1-5.1.2 | Ethernet |
| C/U-Plane transport | Jumbo frames | 5.1.2 | PTC4, PTC5: O-RU REQ PTC1, PTC2, PTC3: NOT REQ |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport header | 5.1.3 | REQ: eCPRI |
| C/U-Plane transport | eCPRI concatenation | 5.1.3.2 | NOT REQ |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID DU_Port_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | O-RU REQ: 3 and 2 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID BandSector_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | O-RU REQ: 2 and 3 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID CC_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | O-RU REQ: 3 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID RU_Port_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | O-RU REQ: 8 |
| C/U-Plane transport | Fragmentation | 5.5 | Application layer fragmentation  REQ |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport prioritization across C/U/S/M-Plane | 5.3 | Default L2 CoS Priority REQ |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport prioritization within U-Plane | 5.3 | NOT REQ |
| C/U-Plane transport | Separation of C/U-Plane and M-Plane traffic | 5.4 | VLAN ID REQ |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport-based separation within C/U-Plane traffic | 5.4 | NOT REQ |
| Digital Power Scaling | UL gain_correction (not applicable to  DMRS-BF-EQ) | 8.1.3.2 | 0 dB |
| Digital Power Scaling | equalization-data-scaling | 12.6.3.5 | REQ: Scaling-function1 or Scaling-function2 |
| Beamforming | O-RU beamforming type | 4.2.1 | REQ: Digital beamforming |
| Beamforming | Beamforming control method | 7.2.1, 12.6, Annex J | DL: REQ: WDBF and PDBF UL: REQ: DMRS-BF for PUSCH, WDBF or PDBF for non-PUSCH |
| Beamforming | BFW IQ | 7.7.1, Annex J | REQ:  PTC4: Fixed point, 12 bits PTC1, PTC2, PTC3, PTC5: BFP, 8 bits |
| IQ compression | U-Plane data compression method | 8, Annex A | DL: O-RU REQ PTC1, PTC2, PTC4, PTC5: Mod Comp, no sel RE PTC3: BFP UL: REQ: BFP |
| IQ compression | U-Plane (DL/UL) data IQ bitwidth | 8, Annex D | DL: O-RU REQ PTC1, PTC2, PTC4, PTC5:  4 bits (Mod Comp) PTC3: 9 bits, BFP UL: REQ: 9 bits |
| IQ compression | IQ data frame format not including udCompHdr field | 8.3.3.13 | REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 0 | 7.4.2 | O-RU REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 1 | 7.4.3 | REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 3 | 7.4.5 | REQ (for PRACH ) |
| C-Plane | Section Type 4 | 7.4.6 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 5 | 7.4.7 | REQ (for DMRS-BF) |
| C-Plane | Section Type 6 | 7.4.8 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 7 | 7.4.9 | N/A |
| C-Plane | Section Type 8 | 7.4.10 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 9 | 7.4.11 | REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 10 | 7.4.12 | REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 11 | 7.4.13 | O-RU REQ |
| C-Plane | "symInc" flag | 7.5.3.3 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | C-Plane for PRACH formats with preamble repetition | 7.2.3.4 | REQ: Single C-Plane message |
| C-Plane | Section extension 1 (beamforming weights) | 7.7.1 | REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 2 (beamforming attributes) | 7.7.2 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 3 (DL Precoding configuration parameters and indications) | 7.7.3 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 4 (modulation compr. params) | 7.7.4 | PTC3: NOT REQ PTC1, PTC2, PTC4, PTC5: O-RU REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 5 (modulation compression additional scaling parameters) | 7.7.5 | PTC1, PTC3, PTC4, PTC5: NOT REQ PTC2: O-RU REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 6 (Non-contiguous PRB allocation) | 7.7.6 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 7 (Multiple-eAxC designation) | 7.7.7 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 8 (regularization factor) | 7.7.8 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 9 (Dynamic Spectrum Sharing parameters) | 7.7.9 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 10 (Multiple ports grouping) | 7.7.10 | REQ (for DMRS-BF) |
| C-Plane | Section extension 11 (Flexible BF weights) | 7.7.11 | O-RU REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 12 | 7.7.12 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 13 | 7.7.13 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 14 | 7.7.14 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 15 | 7.7.15 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 16 | 7.7.16 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 17 | 7.7.17 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 18 | 7.7.18 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 19 | 7.7.19 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 20 | 7.7.20 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 21 | 7.7.21 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 22 | 7.7.22 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 23 | 7.7.23 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 24 | 7.7.24 | REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 25 | 7.7.25 | REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 26 | 7.7.26 | O-RU REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 27 | 7.7.27 | NOT REQ |
| DMRS-BF | Port reduced DMRS data sending | 12.6.3.1 | O-RU REQ |
| DMRS-BF | User group self assembly | 7.7.24 | NOT REQ |
| DMRS-BF | Per-window symbol reordering | 7.7.25, 12.6.1.5 | PTC4, PTC5: NOT REQ PTC1, PTC2, PTC3: REQ If "per-window symbol reordering" is used, then "per-section tx-window reassignment" is not used. |
| DMRS-BF | Per section tx-window reassignment | 7.7.25, 12.6.1.5 | PTC1, PTC2, PTC3: NOT REQ PTC4, PTC5: REQ If "per-section tx-window reassignment" is used, then "per-window symbol reordering" is not used. |
| DMRS-BF | symbolid meaining when reordering (up-symbolId-type-supported) | 7.7.25 | REQ PTC2, PTC3: Transmission window number PTC1, PTC4, PTC5: on-air symbol number |
| DMRS-BF | Transform precoding supported | 7.7.24 | O-RU REQ |
| DMRS-BF | PUSCH and DMRS mux supported | 7.7.24 | O-RU REQ |
| DMRS-BF | DMRS configuration Type (dType) | 7.7.24, 7.7.24.14 | REQ: Type 1 (dType=0) |
| DMRS-BF | dmrsSymbolMask | 7.7.24 | REQ: 1+1 (symbol location: 2, 11) |
| DMRS-BF | different-transform-precoding-in-user-group-supported | 7.7.24 | NOT REQ |
| DMRS-BF | different-cdm-without-data-in-user-group-supported | 7.7.24 | NOT REQ |
| Measurements | SINR reporting | 7.2.11, 7.4.11 | O-RU REQ |
| Measurements | MEAS-UE-TAE (UE timing advance error) | 9.2.1 | O-RU REQ |
| Measurements | MEAS-UE-LAYER-POWER | 9.2.1 | O-RU REQ |
| Measurements | MEAS-UE-FREQ-OFFSET | 9.2.1 | O-RU REQ |
| Measurements | MEAS-IPN-ALLOC | 9.2.1 | O-RU REQ |
| Measurements | MEAS-IPN-UNALLOC | 9.2.1 | O-RU REQ |
| Measurements | MEAS-ANT-DMRS-SNR | 9.2.1 | NOT REQ |
| S-Plane | PTP Full Timing Support (G.8275.1) | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | REQ |
| S-Plane | PTP Partial Timing Support (G.8275.2) | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | NOT REQ |
| S-Plane | Local PRTC | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | N/A |
| S-Plane | Topology configuration | 11.2.2, 11.2.3 (for PLFS) | REQ: LLS-C1 or LLS-C3 |

Table A.3.1.12-2 lists “to be reported” and “to be validated” capabilities in radio layer 3 C-plane establishment and initial radio U-plane data transfer test. Table A.3.1.12-3 lists “to be reported” and “to be validated” capabilities in U-plane DL data transfer test. Table A.3.1.12-4 lists “to be reported” and “to be validated” capabilities in U-plane UL data transfer test.

| PTCs |  |
| --- | --- |
| PTC1 | Capabilities to be validated: WDBF for DL, DMRS-BF-EQ for PUSCH, modulation compression, Per-window symbol reordering using on-air symbol number |
| PTC1 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, BFW BFP 8 bits, SE4, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer |
| PTC2 | Capabilities to be validated: WDBF for DL, DMRS-BF-EQ for PUSCH, modulation compression, Per-window symbole reordering using tx-window symbold number |
| PTC2 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, BFW BFP 8 bits, SE4, SE5, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer |
| PTC3 | Capabilities to be validated: WDBF for DL, DMRS-BF-EQ for PUSCH, Per-window symbol reordering using tx-window symbol number |
| PTC3 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, BFW BFP 8 bits, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), M-Plane static window control for SRS transfer |
| PTC4 | Capabilities to be validated: WDBF for DL, DMRS-BF-EQ for PUSCH, modulation compression, Per-section tx-window reassignment using on-air symbol number |
| PTC4 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, BFW Fixed point 12 bits, SE4, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer |
| PTC5 | Capabilities to be validated: WDBF for DL, DMRS-BF-EQ for PUSCH, modulation compression, Per-section tx-window reassignment using on-air symbol number |
| PTC5 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, BFW BFP 8 bits, SE4, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), M-Plane static window control for SRS transfer |

| PTCs |  |
| --- | --- |
| PTC1 | Capabilities to be validated: WDBF for DL, modulation compression |
| PTC1 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, DMRS-BF-EQ for PUSCH, Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer, BFW BFP 8 bits, SE4, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), Per-window symbol reordering using on-air symbol number |
| PTC2 | Capabilities to be validated: WDBF for DL, modulation compression |
| PTC2 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, DMRS-BF-EQ for PUSCH, Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer, BFW BFP 8 bits, SE4, SE5, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), Per-window symbol reordering using tx-window symbold number |
| PTC3 | Capabilities to be validated: WDBF for DL |
| PTC3 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, DMRS-BF-EQ for PUSCH, M-Plane static window control for SRS transfer, BFW BFP 8 bits, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), Per-window symbol reordering using tx-window symbol number |
| PTC4 | Capabilities to be validated: WDBF for DL, modulation compression |
| PTC4 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, DMRS-BF-EQ for PUSCH, Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer, BFW Fixed point 12 bits, SE4, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), Per-section tx-window reassignment using on-air symbol number |
| PTC5 | Capabilities to be validated: WDBF for DL, modulation compression |
| PTC5 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, DMRS-BF-EQ for PUSCH, M-Plane static window control for SRS transfer, BFW BFP 8 bits, SE4, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), Per-section tx-window reassignment using on-air symbol number |

| PTCs |  |
| --- | --- |
| PTC1 | Capabilities to be validated: DMRS-BF-EQ for PUSCH, modulation compression, Per-window symbol reordering using on-air symbol number |
| PTC1 | Capabilities to be reported: WDBF or PDBF for DL, BFW BFP 8 bits, SE4, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer |
| PTC2 | Capabilities to be validated: DMRS-BF-EQ for PUSCH, modulation compression, Per-window symbol reordering using tx-window symbold number |
| PTC2 | Capabilities to be reported: WDBF or PDBF for DL, BFW BFP 8 bits, SE4, SE5, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer |
| PTC3 | Capabilities to be validated: DMRS-BF-EQ for PUSCH, Per-window symbol reordering using tx-window symbol number |
| PTC3 | Capabilities to be reported: WDBF or PDBF for DL, BFW BFP 8 bits, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), M-Plane static window control for SRS transfer |
| PTC4 | Capabilities to be validated: DMRS-BF-EQ for PUSCH, modulation compression, Per-section tx-window reassignment using on-air symbol number |
| PTC4 | Capabilities to be reported: WDBF or PDBF for DL, BFW Fixed point 12 bits, SE4, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer |
| PTC5 | Capabilities to be validated: DMRS-BF-EQ for PUSCH, modulation compression, Per-section tx-window reassignment using on-air symbol number |
| PTC5 | Capabilities to be reported: WDBF or PDBF for DL, BFW BFP 8 bits, SE4, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), M-Plane static window control for SRS transfer |

#### A.3.1.13  NR TDD IOT M-MIMO Profile 10 - NR-TDD-FR1-CAT-B-mMIMO-WDBF-DMRS-BF-NEQ-Reordering

Table A.3.1.13-1 describes the base profile. It is expected that reordering feature is used when using reordering PTCs for IOT testing. The following PTCs are defined.

- 1)	NR-TDD-FR1-CAT-B-mMIMO-WDBF-DMRS-BF-NEQ-Reordering_PTC1_[8bitBFP.BFW-nondelay.SRS-PerWindows.reord-txwindow.upsymbolId-SE4.ModComp]
- 2)	NR-TDD-FR1-CAT-B-mMIMO-WDBF-DMRS-BF-NEQ-Reordering_PTC2_[12bitFP.BFW-MplaneTxWindow.SRS-PerWindows.reord-txwindow.upsymbolId-noModComp]

| Category | Item | Related O-RAN CUS-Plane specification section(s) |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| General | Radio access technology | - | NR TDD |
| General | TDD configuration | - | DDDSUUDDDD |
| General | Nominal sub-carrier spacing | - | 30kHz |
| General | SSB sub-carrier spacing | - | 30kHz |
| General | Nominal FFT size |  | 4096 |
| General | Total channel bandwidth | - | 100MHz x 1 CC |
| General | Number of user layers | - | DL: 2 – 16 UL: 2 – 8 |
| General | Fronthaul Ethernet link | - | 25Gbps x 1 lane |
| General | PRACH preamble format | - | O-RU REQ: F0 |
| General | O-RU category | 4.2.1 | Category B |
| General | LAA | 7.2.5 | N/A |
| Delay management, general | Network delay determination | 4.4.4 | Defined Transport Method |
| Delay management, general | O-RU adaptation of delay profile information (based on lls-CU delay profile and transport delay) | 4.4.4.3 | NOT REQ |
| Delay management, general | O-DU timing advance type | 4.4.5-4.4.6, Annex B | REQ: Fixed timing Advance |
| Delay management, general | SRS transfer | 4.4.7, 4.6.4 | PTC2: M-Plane static window control (STATIC-TRANSMISSION-WINDOW-CONTROL) REQ PTC1: Non-delay managed U-Plane  REQ |
| Delay management, default | Delay Sets for timing parameters |  | REQ: Table A.4.1-1 |
| Delay management, default | T12_max | 4.4, Annex B | 160us |
| Delay management, default | T12_min | 4.4, Annex B | 0us |
| Delay management, default | T34_max | 4.4, Annex B | 160us |
| Delay management, default | T34_min | 4.4, Annex B | 0us |
| Delay management, non default | non-default beamforming methods #1 | 12.6.3 | REQ: DMRS-BF-NEQ |
| Delay management, non default | Delay Sets for timing parameters |  | REQ: Table A.4.3-1 |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport encapsulation | 5.1.1-5.1.2 | Ethernet |
| C/U-Plane transport | Jumbo frames | 5.1.2 | NOT REQ |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport header | 5.1.3 | REQ: eCPRI |
| C/U-Plane transport | eCPRI concatenation | 5.1.3.2 | NOT REQ |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID DU_Port_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | O-RU REQ: 3 and 2 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID BandSector_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | O-RU REQ: 2 and 3 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID CC_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | O-RU REQ: 3 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID RU_Port_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | O-RU REQ: 8 |
| C/U-Plane transport | Fragmentation | 5.5 | Application layer fragmentation  REQ |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport prioritization across C/U/S/M-Plane | 5.3 | Default L2 CoS Priority REQ |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport prioritization within U-Plane | 5.3 | NOT REQ |
| C/U-Plane transport | Separation of C/U-Plane and M-Plane traffic | 5.4 | VLAN ID REQ |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport-based separation within C/U-Plane traffic | 5.4 | NOT REQ |
| Digital Power Scaling | UL gain_correction (not applicable to  DMRS-BF-EQ) | 8.1.3.2 | 0 dB |
| Digital Power Scaling | equalization-data-scaling | 12.6.3.5 | N/A |
| Beamforming | O-RU beamforming type | 4.2.1 | REQ: Digital beamforming |
| Beamforming | Beamforming control method | 7.2.1, 12.6, Annex J | DL: REQ: WDBF and PDBF UL: REQ: DMRS-BF for PUSCH, WDBF or PDBF for non-PUSCH |
| Beamforming | BFW IQ | 7.7.1, Annex J | REQ  PTC2: Fixed point, 12 bits PTC1: BFP, 8 bits |
| IQ compression | U-Plane data compression method | 8, Annex A | DL: O-RU REQ PTC1: Mod Comp, no sel RE PTC2: BFP UL: REQ BFP |
| IQ compression | U-Plane (DL/UL) data IQ bitwidth | 8, Annex D | DL: O-RU REQ PTC1:  4 bits (Mod Comp) PTC2: 9 bits, BFP UL: REQ: 9 bits |
| IQ compression | IQ data frame format not including udCompHdr field | 8.3.3.13 | REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 0 | 7.4.2 | O-RU REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 1 | 7.4.3 | REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 3 | 7.4.5 | REQ (for PRACH ) |
| C-Plane | Section Type 4 | 7.4.6 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 5 | 7.4.7 | REQ (for DMRS-BF) |
| C-Plane | Section Type 6 | 7.4.8 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 7 | 7.4.9 | N/A |
| C-Plane | Section Type 8 | 7.4.10 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 9 | 7.4.11 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 10 | 7.4.12 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 11 | 7.4.13 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | "symInc" flag | 7.5.3.3 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | C-Plane for PRACH formats with preamble repetition | 7.2.3.4 | REQ: Single C-Plane message |
| C-Plane | Section extension 1 (beamforming weights) | 7.7.1 | REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 2 (beamforming attributes) | 7.7.2 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 3 (DL Precoding configuration parameters and indications) | 7.7.3 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 4 (modulation compr. params) | 7.7.4 | PTC2: NOT REQ PTC1: O-RU REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 5 (modulation compression additional scaling parameters) | 7.7.5 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 6 (Non-contiguous PRB allocation) | 7.7.6 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 7 (Multiple-eAxC designation) | 7.7.7 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 8 (regularization factor) | 7.7.8 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 9 (Dynamic Spectrum Sharing parameters) | 7.7.9 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 10 (Multiple ports grouping) | 7.7.10 | REQ (for DMRS-BF) |
| C-Plane | Section extension 11 (Flexible BF weights) | 7.7.11 | O-RU REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 12 | 7.7.12 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 13 | 7.7.13 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 14 | 7.7.14 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 15 | 7.7.15 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 16 | 7.7.16 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 17 | 7.7.17 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 18 | 7.7.18 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 19 | 7.7.19 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 20 | 7.7.20 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 21 | 7.7.21 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 22 | 7.7.22 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 23 | 7.7.23 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 24 | 7.7.24 | REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 25 | 7.7.25 | REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 26 | 7.7.26 | O-RU REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 27 | 7.7.27 | NOT REQ |
| DMRS-BF | Port reduced DMRS data sending | 12.6.3.1 | REQ |
| DMRS-BF | User group self assembly | 7.7.24 | NOT REQ |
| DMRS-BF | Per-window symbol reordering | 7.7.25, 12.6.1.5 | REQ |
| DMRS-BF | Per section tx-window reassignment | 7.7.25, 12.6.1.5 | NOT REQ |
| DMRS-BF | symbolid meaining when reordering (up-symbolId-type-supported) | 7.7.25 | REQ: Transmission window number |
| DMRS-BF | Transform precoding supported | 7.7.24 | O-RU REQ |
| DMRS-BF | PUSCH and DMRS mux supported | 7.7.24 | O-RU REQ |
| DMRS-BF | DMRS configuration Type (dType) | 7.7.24, 7.7.24.14 | REQ: Type 1 (dType=0) |
| DMRS-BF | dmrsSymbolMask | 7.7.24 | REQ: 1+1 (symbol location: 2, 11) |
| DMRS-BF | different-transform-precoding-in-user-group-supported | 7.7.24 | NOT REQ |
| DMRS-BF | different-cdm-without-data-in-user-group-supported | 7.7.24 | NOT REQ |
| Measurements | SINR reporting | 7.2.11, 7.4.11 | N/A |
| Measurements | MEAS-UE-TAE (UE timing advance error) | 9.2.1 | NOT REQ. O-RU declares feature DMRS-BF-NEQ-UNALTERED-TAE. |
| Measurements | MEAS-UE-LAYER-POWER | 9.2.1 | NOT REQ |
| Measurements | MEAS-UE-FREQ-OFFSET | 9.2.1 | NOT REQ. O-RU declares feature DMRS-BF-NEQ-UNALTERED-FREQ-OFFSET. |
| Measurements | MEAS-IPN-ALLOC | 9.2.1 | NOT REQ |
| Measurements | MEAS-IPN-UNALLOC | 9.2.1 | NOT REQ |
| Measurements | MEAS-ANT-DMRS-SNR | 9.2.1 | NOT REQ |
| S-Plane | PTP Full Timing Support (G.8275.1) | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | REQ |
| S-Plane | PTP Partial Timing Support (G.8275.2) | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | NOT REQ |
| S-Plane | Local PRTC | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | N/A |
| S-Plane | Topology configuration | 11.2.2, 11.2.3 (for PLFS) | REQ: LLS-C1 or LLS-C3 |

Table A.3.1.13-2 lists “to be reported” and “to be validated” capabilities in radio layer 3 C-plane establishment and initial radio U-plane data transfer test. Table A.3.1.13-3 lists “to be reported” and “to be validated” capabilities in U-plane DL data transfer test. Table A.3.1.13-4 lists “to be reported” and “to be validated” capabilities in U-plane UL data transfer test.

| PTCs |  |
| --- | --- |
| PTC1 | Capabilities to be validated: WDBF for DL, DMRS-BF-NEQ for PUSCH, modulation compression, Per-window symbol reording using tx-window symbol number |
| PTC1 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, BFW BFP 8 bits, SE4, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer |
| PTC2 | Capabilities to be validated: WDBF for DL, DMRS-BF-NEQ for PUSCH, Per-window symbol reording using tx-window symbol number |
| PTC2 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, BFW Fixed point 12 bits, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), M-Plane static window control for SRS transfer |

| PTCs |  |
| --- | --- |
| PTC1 | Capabilities to be validated: WDBF for DL, modulation compression |
| PTC1 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, DMRS-BF-NEQ for PUSCH, Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer, BFW BFP 8 bits, SE4, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), Per-window symbol reording using tx-window symbol number |
| PTC2 | Capabilities to be validated: WDBF for DL |
| PTC2 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, DMRS-BF-NEQ for PUSCH, M-Plane static window control for SRS transfer, BFW Fixed point 12 bits, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), Per-window symbol reording using tx-window symbol number |

| PTCs |  |
| --- | --- |
| PTC1 | Capabilities to be validated: DMRS-BF-NEQ for PUSCH, modulation compression, Per-window symbol reording using tx-window symbol number |
| PTC1 | Capabilities to be reported: WDBF or PDBF for DL, BFW BFP 8 bits, SE4, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer |
| PTC2 | Capabilities to be validated: DMRS-BF-NEQ for PUSCH, Per-window symbol reording using tx-window symbol number |
| PTC2 | Capabilities to be reported: WDBF or PDBF for DL, BFW Fixed point 12 bits, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), M-Plane static window control for SRS transfer |

#### A.3.1.14  NR TDD IOT M-MIMO Profile 11 - NR-TDD-FR1-CAT-B-mMIMO-CIBF-DMRS-BF-EQ

Table A.3.1.14-1 shows the base profile. The following PTCs are defined.

- 1)	NR-TDD-FR1-CAT-B-mMIMO-CIBF-DMRS-BF-EQ_PTC1_[SE4.ModComp-noSE25-noReorder]
- 2)	NR-TDD-FR1-CAT-B-mMIMO-CIBF-DMRS-BF-EQ_PTC2_[SE4.ModComp-SE25-PerWindow.reord-txwindow.upsymbolId]
- 3)	NR-TDD-FR1-CAT-B-mMIMO-CIBF-DMRS-BF-EQ_PTC3_[SE4.ModComp-SE25-PerSection.reord-onair.upsymbolId]

| Category | Item | Related O-RAN CUS-Plane specification section(s) |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| General | Radio access technology | - | NR TDD |
| General | TDD configuration | - | DDDSUUDDDD |
| General | Nominal sub-carrier spacing | - | 30kHz |
| General | SSB sub-carrier spacing | - | 30kHz |
| General | Nominal FFT size |  | 4096 |
| General | Total channel bandwidth | - | 100MHz x 1 CC |
| General | Number of user layers | - | DL: 2 – 16 UL: 2 – 8 |
| General | Fronthaul Ethernet link | - | 25Gbps x 1 lane |
| General | PRACH preamble format | - | O-RU REQ: F0 |
| General | O-RU category | 4.2.1 | Category B |
| General | LAA | 7.2.5 | N/A |
| Delay management, general | Network delay determination | 4.4.4 | Defined Transport Method |
| Delay management, general | O-RU adaptation of delay profile information (based on lls-CU delay profile and transport delay) | 4.4.4.3 | NOT REQ |
| Delay management, general | O-DU timing advance type | 4.4.5-4.4.6, Annex B | REQ: Fixed timing Advance |
| Delay management, general | SRS transfer | 4.4.7 | REQ: Non-delay managed U-Plane |
| Delay management, default | Delay Sets for timing parameters |  | REQ: Table A.4.2-1 |
| Delay management, default | T12_max | 4.4, Annex B | 160us |
| Delay management, default | T12_min | 4.4, Annex B | 0us |
| Delay management, default | T34_max | 4.4, Annex B | 160us |
| Delay management, default | T34_min | 4.4, Annex B | 0us |
| Delay management, non default | non-default beamforming methods #1 | 12.6.3 | REQ: DMRS-BF-EQ |
| Delay management, non default | Delay Sets for timing parameters |  | REQ: Table A.4.3-1 |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport encapsulation | 5.1.1-5.1.2 | Ethernet |
| C/U-Plane transport | Jumbo frames | 5.1.2 | O-RU REQ |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport header | 5.1.3 | REQ: eCPRI |
| C/U-Plane transport | eCPRI concatenation | 5.1.3.2 | NOT REQ |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID DU_Port_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | O-RU REQ: 3 and 2 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID BandSector_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | O-RU REQ: 2 and 3 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID CC_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | O-RU REQ: 3 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID RU_Port_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | O-RU REQ: 8 |
| C/U-Plane transport | Fragmentation | 5.5 | Application layer fragmentation  REQ |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport prioritization across C/U/S/M-Plane | 5.3 | Default L2 CoS Priority REQ |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport prioritization within U-Plane | 5.3 | NOT REQ |
| C/U-Plane transport | Separation of C/U-Plane and M-Plane traffic | 5.4 | VLAN ID REQ |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport-based separation within C/U-Plane traffic | 5.4 | NOT REQ |
| Digital Power Scaling | UL gain_correction (not applicable to  DMRS-BF-EQ) | 8.1.3.2 | 0 dB |
| Digital Power Scaling | equalization-data-scaling | 12.6.3.5 | REQ: Scaling-function1 or Scaling-function2 |
| Beamforming | O-RU beamforming type | 4.2.1 | REQ: Digital beamforming |
| Beamforming | Beamforming control method | 7.2.1, 12.6, Annex J | DL: REQ: CIBF and PDBF UL: REQ: DMRS-BF for PUSCH, PDBF for non-PUSCH |
| Beamforming | BFW IQ | 7.7.1, Annex J | N/A |
| IQ compression | U-Plane data compression method | 8, Annex A | DL: REQ: Modulation compression, no selective RE UL: REQ: BFP |
| IQ compression | U-Plane (DL/UL) data IQ bitwidth | 8, Annex D | REQ for Mod Comp in DL: 4 bits  for BFP in UL: 8 and 9 bits for DMRS-BF and 9 bits for other BF methods |
| IQ compression | IQ data frame format not including udCompHdr field | 8.3.3.13 | REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 0 | 7.4.2 | O-RU REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 1 | 7.4.3 | REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 3 | 7.4.5 | REQ (for PRACH ) |
| C-Plane | Section Type 4 | 7.4.6 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 5 | 7.4.7 | REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 6 | 7.4.8 | REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 7 | 7.4.9 | N/A |
| C-Plane | Section Type 8 | 7.4.10 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 9 | 7.4.11 | REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 10 | 7.4.12 | REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 11 | 7.4.13 | O-RU REQ |
| C-Plane | "symInc" flag | 7.5.3.3 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | C-Plane for PRACH formats with preamble repetition | 7.2.3.4 | REQ: Single C-Plane message |
| C-Plane | Section extension 1 (beamforming weights) | 7.7.1 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 2 (beamforming attributes) | 7.7.2 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 3 (DL Precoding configuration parameters and indications) | 7.7.3 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 4 (modulation compr. params) | 7.7.4 | REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 5 (modulation compression additional scaling parameters) | 7.7.5 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 6 (Non-contiguous PRB allocation) | 7.7.6 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 7 (Multiple-eAxC designation) | 7.7.7 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 8 (regularization factor) | 7.7.8 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 9 (Dynamic Spectrum Sharing parameters) | 7.7.9 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 10 (Multiple ports grouping) | 7.7.10 | REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 11 (Flexible BF weights) | 7.7.11 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 12 | 7.7.12 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 13 | 7.7.13 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 14 | 7.7.14 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 15 | 7.7.15 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 16 | 7.7.16 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 17 | 7.7.17 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 18 | 7.7.18 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 19 | 7.7.19 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 20 | 7.7.20 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 21 | 7.7.21 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 22 | 7.7.22 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 23 | 7.7.23 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 24 | 7.7.24 | REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 25 | 7.7.25 | PTC1: NOT REQ PTC2, PTC3: REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 26 | 7.7.26 | O-RU REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 27 | 7.7.27 | NOT REQ |
| DMRS-BF | Port reduced DMRS data sending | 12.6.3.1 | O-RU REQ |
| DMRS-BF | User group self assembly | 7.7.24 | NOT REQ |
| DMRS-BF | Per-window symbol reordering | 7.7.25, 12.6.1.5 | PTC1, PTC3: NOT REQ PTC2: REQ If "per-window symbol reordering" is used, then "per-section tx-window reassignment" is not used. |
| DMRS-BF | Per section tx-window reassignment | 7.7.25, 12.6.1.5 | PTC1, PTC2: NOT REQ PTC3: REQ If "per-section tx-window reassignment" is used, then "per-window symbol reordering" is not used. |
| DMRS-BF | symbolid meaining when reordering (up-symbolId-type-supported) | 7.7.25 | PTC1: N/A PTC2: Transmission window number REQ PTC3: on-air symbol number REQ |
| DMRS-BF | Transform precoding supported | 7.7.24 | O-RU REQ |
| DMRS-BF | PUSCH and DMRS mux supported | 7.7.24 | O-RU REQ |
| DMRS-BF | DMRS configuration Type (dType) | 7.7.24, 7.7.24.14 | REQ: Type 1 (dType=0) |
| DMRS-BF | dmrsSymbolMask | 7.7.24 | REQ: 1+1 (symbol location: 2, 11) |
| DMRS-BF | different-transform-precoding-in-user-group-supported | 7.7.24 | NOT REQ |
| DMRS-BF | different-cdm-without-data-in-user-group-supported | 7.7.24 | NOT REQ |
| Measurements | SINR reporting | 7.2.11, 7.4.11 | O-RU REQ |
| Measurements | MEAS-UE-TAE (UE timing advance error) | 9.2.1 | O-RU REQ |
| Measurements | MEAS-UE-LAYER-POWER | 9.2.1 | O-RU REQ |
| Measurements | MEAS-UE-FREQ-OFFSET | 9.2.1 | O-RU REQ |
| Measurements | MEAS-IPN-ALLOC | 9.2.1 | O-RU REQ |
| Measurements | MEAS-IPN-UNALLOC | 9.2.1 | O-RU REQ |
| Measurements | MEAS-ANT-DMRS-SNR | 9.2.1 | NOT REQ |
| S-Plane | PTP Full Timing Support (G.8275.1) | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | REQ |
| S-Plane | PTP Partial Timing Support (G.8275.2) | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | NOT REQ |
| S-Plane | Local PRTC | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | N/A |
| S-Plane | Topology configuration | 11.2.2, 11.2.3 (for PLFS) | REQ: LLS-C1 or LLS-C3 |

Table A.3.1.14-2 lists “to be reported” and “to be validated” capabilities in radio layer 3 C-plane establishment and initial radio U-plane data transfer test. Table A.3.1.14-3 lists “to be reported” and “to be validated” capabilities in U-plane DL data transfer test. Table A.3.1.14-4 lists “to be reported” and “to be validated” capabilities in U-plane UL data transfer test.

| PTCs |  |
| --- | --- |
| PTC1 | Capabilities to be validated: CIBF for DL, DMRS-BF-EQ for PUSCH, modulation compression |
| PTC1 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, SE4, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), PUSCH data IQ bitwidth (8 bits or 9 bits), Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer |
| PTC2 | Capabilities to be validated: CIBF for DL, DMRS-BF-EQ for PUSCH, modulation compression, Per-window symbol reording using tx-window symbol number |
| PTC2 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, SE4, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), PUSCH data IQ bitwidth (8 bits or 9 bits), Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer |
| PTC3 | Capabilities to be validated: CIBF for DL, DMRS-BF-EQ for PUSCH, modulation compression, Per-section tx-window reassignment using on-air symbol number |
| PTC3 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, SE4, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), PUSCH data IQ bitwidth (8 bits or 9 bits), Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer |

| PTCs |  |
| --- | --- |
| PTC1 | Capabilities to be validated: CIBF for DL, modulation compression |
| PTC1 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, SE4, DMRS-BF-EQ for PUSCH, Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), PUSCH data IQ bitwidth (8 bits or 9 bits) |
| PTC2 | Capabilities to be validated: CIBF for DL, modulation compression |
| PTC2 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, SE4, DMRS-BF-EQ for PUSCH, Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), PUSCH data IQ bitwidth (8 bits or 9 bits), Per-window symbol reording using tx-window symbol number |
| PTC3 | Capabilities to be validated: CIBF for DL, modulation compression |
| PTC3 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, SE4, DMRS-BF-EQ for PUSCH, Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), PUSCH data IQ bitwidth (8 bits or 9 bits), Per-section tx-window reassignment using on-air symbol number |

| PTCs |  |
| --- | --- |
| PTC1 | Capabilities to be validated: DMRS-BF-EQ for PUSCH, modulation compression |
| PTC1 | Capabilities to be reported: CIBF or PDBF for DL, SE4, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), PUSCH data IQ bitwidth (8 bits or 9 bits), Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer |
| PTC2 | Capabilities to be validated: DMRS-BF-EQ for PUSCH, modulation compression, Per-window symbol reording using tx-window symbol number |
| PTC2 | Capabilities to be reported: CIBF or PDBF for DL, SE4, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), PUSCH data IQ bitwidth (8 bits or 9 bits), Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer |
| PTC3 | Capabilities to be validated: DMRS-BF-EQ for PUSCH, modulation compression, Per-section tx-window reassignment using on-air symbol number |
| PTC3 | Capabilities to be reported: CIBF or PDBF for DL, SE4, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), PUSCH data IQ bitwidth (8 bits or 9 bits), Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer |

#### A.3.1.15  NR TDD IOT M-MIMO Profile 12 - NR-TDD-FR1-CAT-B-mMIMO-CIBF-DMRS-BF-NEQ

Table A.3.1.15-1 describes the base profile. The following PTC is defined.

- 1)	NR-TDD-FR1-CAT-B-mMIMO-CIBF-DMRS-BF-NEQ_PTC1_[SE4.ModComp-noReorder]

| Category | Item | Related O-RAN CUS-Plane specification section(s) |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| General | Radio access technology | - | NR TDD |
| General | TDD configuration | - | DDDSUUDDDD |
| General | Nominal sub-carrier spacing | - | 30kHz |
| General | SSB sub-carrier spacing | - | 30kHz |
| General | Nominal FFT size |  | 4096 |
| General | Total channel bandwidth | - | 100MHz x 1 CC |
| General | Number of user layers | - | DL: 2 – 16 UL: 2 – 8 |
| General | Fronthaul Ethernet link | - | 25Gbps x 1 lane |
| General | PRACH preamble format | - | O-RU REQ: F0 |
| General | O-RU category | 4.2.1 | Category B |
| General | LAA | 7.2.5 | N/A |
| Delay management, general | Network delay determination | 4.4.4 | Defined Transport Method |
| Delay management, general | O-RU adaptation of delay profile information (based on lls-CU delay profile and transport delay) | 4.4.4.3 | NOT REQ |
| Delay management, general | O-DU timing advance type | 4.4.5-4.4.6, Annex B | REQ: Fixed timing Advance |
| Delay management, general | SRS transfer | 4.4.7 | REQ: Non-delay managed U-Plane |
| Delay management, default | Delay Sets for timing parameters |  | REQ: Table A.4.2-1 |
| Delay management, default | T12_max | 4.4, Annex B | 160us |
| Delay management, default | T12_min | 4.4, Annex B | 0us |
| Delay management, default | T34_max | 4.4, Annex B | 160us |
| Delay management, default | T34_min | 4.4, Annex B | 0us |
| Delay management, non default | non-default beamforming methods #1 | 12.6.3 | REQ: DMRS-BF-NEQ |
| Delay management, non default | Delay Sets for timing parameters |  | REQ: Table A.4.3-1 |
| C/U-Plan e transport | Transport encapsulation | 5.1.1-5.1.2 | Ethernet |
| C/U-Plan e transport | Jumbo frames | 5.1.2 | O-RU REQ |
| C/U-Plan e transport | Transport header | 5.1.3 | REQ: eCPRI |
| C/U-Plan e transport | eCPRI concatenation | 5.1.3.2 | NOT REQ |
| C/U-Plan e transport | eAxC ID DU_Port_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | O-RU REQ: 3 and 2 |
| C/U-Plan e transport | eAxC ID BandSector_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | O-RU REQ: 2 and 3 |
| C/U-Plan e transport | eAxC ID CC_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | O-RU REQ: 3 |
| C/U-Plan e transport | eAxC ID RU_Port_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | O-RU REQ: 8 |
| C/U-Plan e transport | Fragmentation | 5.5 | Application layer fragmentation  REQ |
| C/U-Plan e transport | Transport prioritization across C/U/S/M-Plane | 5.3 | Default L2 CoS Priority REQ |
| C/U-Plan e transport | Transport prioritization within U-Plane | 5.3 | NOT REQ |
| C/U-Plan e transport | Separation of C/U-Plane and M-Plane traffic | 5.4 | VLAN ID REQ |
| C/U-Plan e transport | Transport-based separation within C/U-Plane traffic | 5.4 | NOT REQ |
| Digital Power Scaling | UL gain_correction (not applicable to  DMRS-BF-EQ) | 8.1.3.2 | 0 dB |
| Digital Power Scaling | equalization-data-scaling | 12.6.3.5 | N/A |
| Beamforming | O-RU beamforming type | 4.2.1 | REQ: Digital beamforming |
| Beamforming | Beamforming control method | 7.2.1, 12.6, Annex J | DL: REQ:  CIBF and PDBF  UL: REQ: DMRS-BF for PUSCH, PDBF for non-PUSCH |
| Beamforming | BFW IQ | 7.7.1, Annex J | N/A |
| IQ compression | U-Plane data compression method | 8, Annex A | DL: REQ: Modulation compression, no selective RE UL: REQ: BFP |
| IQ compression | U-Plane (DL/UL) data IQ bitwidth | 8, Annex D | DL: REQ: 4 bits  UL: REQ: 9 bits |
| IQ compression | IQ data frame format not including udCompHdr field | 8.3.3.13 | REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 0 | 7.4.2 | O-RU REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 1 | 7.4.3 | REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 3 | 7.4.5 | REQ (for PRACH ) |
| C-Plane | Section Type 4 | 7.4.6 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 5 | 7.4.7 | REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 6 | 7.4.8 | REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 7 | 7.4.9 | N/A |
| C-Plane | Section Type 8 | 7.4.10 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 9 | 7.4.11 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 10 | 7.4.12 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section Type 11 | 7.4.13 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | "symInc" flag | 7.5.3.3 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | C-Plane for PRACH formats with preamble repetition | 7.2.3.4 | REQ: Single C-Plane message |
| C-Plane | Section extension 1 (beamforming weights) | 7.7.1 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 2 (beamforming attributes) | 7.7.2 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 3 (DL Precoding configuration parameters and indications) | 7.7.3 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 4 (modulation compr. params) | 7.7.4 | REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 5 (modulation compression additional scaling parameters) | 7.7.5 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 6 (Non-contiguous PRB allocation) | 7.7.6 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 7 (Multiple-eAxC designation) | 7.7.7 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 8 (regularization factor) | 7.7.8 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 9 (Dynamic Spectrum Sharing parameters) | 7.7.9 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 10 (Multiple ports grouping) | 7.7.10 | REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 11 (Flexible BF weights) | 7.7.11 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 12 | 7.7.12 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 13 | 7.7.13 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 14 | 7.7.14 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 15 | 7.7.15 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 16 | 7.7.16 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 17 | 7.7.17 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 18 | 7.7.18 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 19 | 7.7.19 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 20 | 7.7.20 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 21 | 7.7.21 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 22 | 7.7.22 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 23 | 7.7.23 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 24 | 7.7.24 | REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 25 | 7.7.25 | NOT REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 26 | 7.7.26 | O-RU REQ |
| C-Plane | Section extension 27 | 7.7.27 | NOT REQ |
| DMRS-BF | Port reduced DMRS data sending | 12.6.3.1 | REQ |
| DMRS-BF | User group self assembly | 7.7.24 | NOT REQ |
| DMRS-BF | Per-window symbol reordering with DMRS sending | 7.7.25, 12.6.1.5 | NOT REQ |
| DMRS-BF | Per section tx-window reassignment | 7.7.25, 12.6.1.5 | NOT REQ |
| DMRS-BF | symbolid meaining when reordering (up-symbolId-type-supported) | 7.7.25 | N/A |
| DMRS-BF | Transform precoding supported | 7.7.24 | O-RU REQ |
| DMRS-BF | PUSCH and DMRS mux supported | 7.7.24 | O-RU REQ |
| DMRS-BF | DMRS configuration Type (dType) | 7.7.24, 7.7.24.14 | REQ: Type 1 (dType=0) |
| DMRS-BF | dmrsSymbolMask | 7.7.24 | REQ: 1+1 (symbol location: 2, 11) |
| DMRS-BF | different-transform-precoding-in-user-group-supported | 7.7.24 | NOT REQ |
| DMRS-BF | different-cdm-without-data-in-user-group-supported | 7.7.24 | NOT REQ |
| Measurements | SINR reporting | 7.2.11, 7.4.11 | N/A |
| Measurements | MEAS-UE-TAE (UE timing advance error) | 9.2.1 | NOT REQ. O-RU declares feature DMRS-BF-NEQ-UNALTERED-TAE. |
| Measurements | MEAS-UE-LAYER-POWER | 9.2.1 | NOT REQ |
| Measurements | MEAS-UE-FREQ-OFFSET | 9.2.1 | NOT REQ. O-RU declares feature DMRS-BF-NEQ-UNALTERED-FREQ-OFFSET. |
| Measurements | MEAS-IPN-ALLOC | 9.2.1 | NOT REQ |
| Measurements | MEAS-IPN-UNALLOC | 9.2.1 | NOT REQ |
| Measurements | MEAS-ANT-DMRS-SNR | 9.2.1 | NOT REQ |
| S-Plane | PTP Full Timing Support (G.8275.1) | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | REQ |
| S-Plane | PTP Partial Timing Support (G.8275.2) | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | NOT REQ |
| S-Plane | Local PRTC | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | N/A |
| S-Plane | Topology configuration | 11.2.2, 11.2.3 (for PLFS) | REQ: LLS-C1 or LLS-C3 |

Table A.3.1.15-2 lists “to be reported” and “to be validated” capabilities in radio layer 3 C-plane establishment and initial radio U-plane data transfer test. Table A.3.1.15-3 lists “to be reported” and “to be validated” capabilities in U-plane DL data transfer test. Table A.3.1.15-4 lists “to be reported” and “to be validated” capabilities in U-plane UL data transfer test.

| PTCs |  |
| --- | --- |
| PTC1 | Capabilities to be validated: CIBF for DL, DMRS-BF-NEQ for PUSCH, modulation compression |
| PTC1 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, SE4, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer |

| PTCs |  |
| --- | --- |
| PTC1 | Capabilities to be validated: CIBF for DL, modulation compression |
| PTC1 | Capabilities to be reported: PDBF for DL, SE4, DMRS-BF-NEQ for PUSCH, Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338) |

| PTCs |  |
| --- | --- |
| PTC1 | Capabilities to be validated: DMRS-BF-NEQ for PUSCH, modulation compression |
| PTC1 | Capabilities to be reported: CIBF or PDBF for DL, SE4, eAxC-ID format (3238 or 2338), Non-delay managed U-plane for SRS transfer |

### A.3.2 NR FDD

#### A.3.2.1  NR FDD IOT Profile 1 - NR-FDD-FR1(15kHzSCS)-CAT-B-DBF

Profile Test Configurations:

Table A.3.2.1-1: NR FDD IOT Profile 1 - NR-FDD-FR1(15kHzSCS)-CAT-B-DBF

| Category | Item | Related O-RAN CUS-Plane specification section(s) |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| General | Radio access technology | - | NR FDD |
| General | TDD configuration | - | NA |
| General | Nominal sub-carrier spacing | - | 15 kHz |
| General | SSB sub-carrier spacing | - | 15 kHz |
| General | Nominal FFT size | - | 2048 |
| General | Total channel bandwidth | - | Entry1: 20MHz Entry2: 20MHz+10MHz |
| General | Number of spatial/antenna streams | - | Entry1: 8 Entry2: 16 |
| General | Fronthaul Ethernet link | - | 25Gbps x 1lane for 8 spatial streams, 25Gbps x 2lane for 16 spatial streams |
| General | PRACH preamble format | - | Entry1: 0 Entry2: C2 |
| General | RU category | 4.2.1 | Category B |
| General | LAA | - | FALSE |
| Delay management | Network delay determination | 4.4.4.2 | Defined Transport Method |
| Delay management | RU adaptation of delay profile information (based on O-DU delay profile and transport delay) | 4.4.4.3 | FALSE |
| Delay management | O-DU timing advance type | 4.4.5-4.4.6, Annex B | Fixed Timing Advance |
| Delay management | T1a_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 437us |
| Delay management | T1a_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 366us |
| Delay management | T2a_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 437us |
| Delay management | T2a_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 206us |
| Delay management | Tcp_adv_dl | 4.3.2, Annex B | 125 us |
| Delay management | Ta3_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 232us |
| Delay management | Ta3_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 70us |
| Delay management | Ta4_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 392us |
| Delay management | Ta4_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 70us |
| Delay management | T1a_max_cp_ul | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 356us |
| Delay management | T1a_min_cp_ul | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 285us |
| Delay management | T2a_max_cp_ul | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 356us |
| Delay management | T2a_min_cp_ul | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 125us |
| Delay management | T12_max | 4.4, Annex B | 160 us |
| Delay management | T12_min | 4.4, Annex B | 0 us |
| Delay management | T34_max | 4.4, Annex B | 160 us |
| Delay management | T34_min | 4.4, Annex B | 0 us |
| Delay management | Non-delay managed U-Plane traffic | 4.4.7 | FALSE |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport encapsulation | 5.1.1-5.1.2 | Ethernet |
| C/U-Plane transport | Jumbo frames | 5.1.2 | FALSE |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport header | 5.1.3 | eCPRI |
| C/U-Plane transport | eCPRI concatenation | 5.1.3.1-5.1.3.2 | FALSE |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID DU_Port_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | 2 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID BandSector_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | 3 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID CC_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | 3 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID RU_Port_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | 8 |
| C/U-Plane transport | Fragmentation | 5.5 | Application layer fragmentation |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport prioritization across C/U/S/M-Plane | 5.3 | Default L2 CoS priority |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport prioritization within U-Plane | 5.3 | False (Default U-Plane priority applies) |
| C/U-Plane transport | Separation of C/U-Plane and M-Plane traffic | 5.4 | VLAN ID |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport-based separation within C/U-Plane traffic | 5.4 | FALSE |
| Digital Power Scaling | UL gain_correction | 8.1.3.2 | 0dB |
| Beamforming | RU beamforming type | 4.2.1  (10.1) | Digital beamforming |
| Beamforming | Beamforming control method | 7.3, Annex J | Beamforming ID based |
| IQ compression | U-Plane data compression method | 8, Annex A | Block floating point |
| IQ compression | U-Plane data IQ bitwidth | 8, Annex D | Entry1: 9 Entry2: 12 |
| IQ compression | IQ data frame format not including udCompHdr field | 8.3.3.13 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 0 | 7.4.2 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 1 | 7.4.3 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 3 | 7.4.5 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 5 | 7.4.7 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 6 | 7.4.8 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 7 | 7.4.9 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | "symInc" flag | 7.5.3.3 | FALSE (always set to '0') |
| C-Plane | C-Plane for PRACH formats with preamble repetition | 7.2.3.4 | Single C-Plane message |
| C-Plane | Section extension 1 | 7.7.1 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 2 | 7.7.2 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 3 | 7.7.3 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 4 | 7.7.4 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 5 | 7.7.5 | FALSE |
| S-Plane | PTP Full Timing Support (G.8275.1) | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | TRUE |
| S-Plane | PTP Partial Timing Support (G.8275.2) | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | FALSE |
| S-Plane | Local PRTC | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | FALSE |
| S-Plane | Topology configuration | 11.2.2 10, 11.2.3 (for PLFS) | Entry1: lls-C2 Entry2: lls-C3 |

#### A.3.2.2  NR FDD IOT Profile 2 - NR-FDD-FR1-CAT-B-DBF

Profile Test Configurations:

Table A.3.2.2-1: NR FDD IOT Profile 2 - NR-FDD-FR1-CAT-B-DBF

| Category | Item | Related O-RAN CUS-Plane specification section(s) |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| General | Radio access technology | - | NR FDD |
| General | TDD configuration | - | NA |
| General | Nominal sub-carrier spacing | - | 30 kHz |
| General | SSB sub-carrier spacing | - | 30 kHz |
| General | Nominal FFT size | - | 1024 |
| General | Total channel bandwidth | - | Entry1: 20MHz Entry2: 20MHz+10MHz |
| General | Number of spatial/antenna streams | - | Entry1: 8 Entry2: 16 |
| General | Fronthaul Ethernet link | - | 25Gbps x 1lane for 8 spatial streams, 25Gbps x 2lane for 16 spatial streams |
| General | PRACH preamble format | - | 0 |
| General | RU category | 4.2.1 | Category B |
| General | LAA | - | FALSE |
| Delay management | Network delay determination | 4.4.4.2 | Defined Transport Method |
| Delay management | RU adaptation of delay profile information (based on O-DU delay profile and transport delay) | 4.4.4.3 | FALSE |
| Delay management | O-DU timing advance type | 4.4.5-4.4.6, Annex B | Fixed Timing Advance |
| Delay management | T1a_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 345us |
| Delay management | T1a_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 294us |
| Delay management | T2a_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 345us |
| Delay management | T2a_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 134us |
| Delay management | Tcp_adv_dl | 4.3.2, Annex B | 125 us |
| Delay management | Ta3_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 171us |
| Delay management | Ta3_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 50us |
| Delay management | Ta4_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 331us |
| Delay management | Ta4_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 50us |
| Delay management | T1a_max_cp_ul | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 336us |
| Delay management | T1a_min_cp_ul | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 285us |
| Delay management | T2a_max_cp_ul | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 336us |
| Delay management | T2a_min_cp_ul | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 125us |
| Delay management | T12_max | 4.4, Annex B | 160 us |
| Delay management | T12_min | 4.4, Annex B | 0 us |
| Delay management | T34_max | 4.4, Annex B | 160 us |
| Delay management | T34_min | 4.4, Annex B | 0 us |
| Delay management | Non-delay managed U-Plane traffic | 4.4.7 | FALSE |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport encapsulation | 5.1.1-5.1.2 | Ethernet |
| C/U-Plane transport | Jumbo frames | 5.1.2 | FALSE |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport header | 5.1.3 | eCPRI |
| C/U-Plane transport | eCPRI concatenation | 5.1.3.1-5.1.3.2 | FALSE |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID DU_Port_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | 2 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID BandSector_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | 3 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID CC_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | 3 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID RU_Port_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | 8 |
| C/U-Plane transport | Fragmentation | 5.5 | Application layer fragmentation |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport prioritization across C/U/S/M-Plane | 5.3 | Default L2 CoS priority |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport prioritization within U-Plane | 5.3 | False (Default U-Plane priority applies) |
| C/U-Plane transport | Separation of C/U-Plane and M-Plane traffic | 5.4 | VLAN ID |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport-based separation within C/U-Plane traffic | 5.4 | FALSE |
| Digital Power Scaling | UL gain_correction | 8.1.3.2 | 0dB |
| Beamforming | RU beamforming type | 4.2.1..(10.1) | Digital beamforming |
| Beamforming | Beamforming control method | 7.3, Annex J | Beamforming ID based |
| IQ compression | U-Plane data compression method | 8, Annex A | Block floating point |
| IQ compression | U-Plane data IQ bitwidth | 8, Annex D | Entry1: 9 Entry2: 12 |
| IQ compression | IQ data frame format not including udCompHdr field | 8.3.3.13 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 0 | 7.4.2 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 1 | 7.4.3 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 3 | 7.4.5 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 5 | 7.4.7 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 6 | 7.4.8 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 7 | 7.4.9 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | "symInc" flag | 7.5.3.3 | FALSE (always set to '0') |
| C-Plane | C-Plane for PRACH formats with preamble repetition | 7.2.3.4 | Single C-Plane message |
| C-Plane | Section extension 1 | 7.7.1 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 2 | 7.7.2 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 3 | 7.7.3 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 4 | 7.7.4 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 5 | 7.7.5 | FALSE |
| S-Plane | PTP Full Timing Support (G.8275.1) | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | TRUE |
| S-Plane | PTP Partial Timing Support (G.8275.2) | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | FALSE |
| S-Plane | Local PRTC | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | FALSE |
| S-Plane | Topology configuration | 11.2.2 10, 11.2.3 (for PLFS) | Entry1: lls-C2 Entry2: lls-C3 |

#### A.3.2.3  NR FDD IOT Profile 3 - NR-FDD-FR1-CAT-A-NoBF

Profile Test Configurations:

Table A.3.2.3-1: NR FDD IOT Profile 3 - NR-FDD-FR1-CAT-A-NoBF

| Category | Item | Related O-RAN CUS-Plane specification section(s) |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| General | Radio access technology | - | NR FDD |
| General | TDD configuration | - | NA |
| General | Nominal sub-carrier spacing | - | 30 kHz |
| General | SSB sub-carrier spacing | - | 30 kHz |
| General | Nominal FFT size | - | 1024 |
| General | Total channel bandwidth | - | Entry1: 20MHz Entry2: 20MHz+10MHz |
| General | Number of spatial/antenna streams | - | 4 |
| General | Fronthaul Ethernet link | - | 10Gbps x 1 lane |
| General | PRACH preamble format | - | 0 |
| General | RU category | 4.2.1 | Category A |
| General | LAA | - | FALSE |
| Delay management | Network delay determination | 4.4.4.2 | Defined Transport Method |
| Delay management | RU adaptation of delay profile information (based on O-DU delay profile and transport delay) | 4.4.4.3 | FALSE |
| Delay management | O-DU timing advance type | 4.4.5-4.4.6, Annex B | Fixed Timing Advance |
| Delay management | T1a_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 345us |
| Delay management | T1a_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 294us |
| Delay management | T2a_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 345us |
| Delay management | T2a_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 134us |
| Delay management | Tcp_adv_dl | 4.3.2, Annex B | 125 us |
| Delay management | Ta3_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 171us |
| Delay management | Ta3_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 50us |
| Delay management | Ta4_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 331us |
| Delay management | Ta4_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 50us |
| Delay management | T1a_max_cp_ul | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 336us |
| Delay management | T1a_min_cp_ul | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 285us |
| Delay management | T2a_max_cp_ul | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 336us |
| Delay management | T2a_min_cp_ul | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 125us |
| Delay management | T12_max | 4.4, Annex B | 160 us |
| Delay management | T12_min | 4.4, Annex B | 0 us |
| Delay management | T34_max | 4.4, Annex B | 160 us |
| Delay management | T34_min | 4.4, Annex B | 0 us |
| Delay management | Non-delay managed U-Plane traffic | 4.4.7 | FALSE |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport encapsulation | 5.1.1-5.1.2 | Ethernet |
| C/U-Plane transport | Jumbo frames | 5.1.2 | FALSE |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport header | 5.1.3 | eCPRI |
| C/U-Plane transport | eCPRI concatenation | 5.1.3.1-5.1.3.2 | FALSE |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID DU_Port_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | 2 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID BandSector_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | 3 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID CC_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | 3 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID RU_Port_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | 8 |
| C/U-Plane transport | Fragmentation | 5.5 | Application layer fragmentation |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport prioritization across C/U/S/M-Plane | 5.3 | Default L2 CoS priority |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport prioritization within U-Plane | 5.3 | False (Default U-Plane priority applies) |
| C/U-Plane transport | Separation of C/U-Plane and M-Plane traffic | 5.4 | VLAN ID |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport-based separation within C/U-Plane traffic | 5.4 | FALSE |
| Digital Power Scaling | UL gain_correction | 8.1.3.2 | 0dB |
| Beamforming | RU beamforming type | 4.2.1..(10.1) | No beamforming |
| Beamforming | Beamforming control method | 7.3, Annex J | Beamforming ID based (always "0") |
| IQ compression | U-Plane data compression method | 8, Annex A | Block floating point |
| IQ compression | U-Plane data IQ bitwidth | 8, Annex D | Entry1: 9 Entry2: 12 |
| IQ compression | IQ data frame format not including udCompHdr field | 8.3.3.13 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 0 | 7.4.2 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 1 | 7.4.3 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 3 | 7.4.5 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 5 | 7.4.7 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 6 | 7.4.8 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 7 | 7.4.9 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | "symInc" flag | 7.5.3.3 | FALSE (always set to '0') |
| C-Plane | C-Plane for PRACH formats with preamble repetition | 7.2.3.4 | Single C-Plane message |
| C-Plane | Section extension 1 | 7.7.1 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 2 | 7.7.2 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 3 | 7.7.3 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 4 | 7.7.4 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 5 | 7.7.5 | FALSE |
| S-Plane | PTP Full Timing Support (G.8275.1) | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | TRUE |
| S-Plane | PTP Partial Timing Support (G.8275.2) | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | FALSE |
| S-Plane | Local PRTC | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | FALSE |
| S-Plane | Topology configuration | 11.2.2 10, 11.2.3 (for PLFS) | Entry1: lls-C2 Entry2: lls-C3 |

#### A.3.2.4  NR FDD IOT Profile 4 - NR-FDD-FR1(15kHzSCS)-CAT-A-NoBF

Profile Test Configurations:

Table A.3.2.4-1: NR FDD IOT Profile 4 - NR-FDD-FR1(15kHzSCS)-CAT-A-NoBF

| Category | Item | Related O-RAN CUS-Plane specification section(s) |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| General | Radio access technology | - | NR FDD |
| General | TDD configuration | - | NA |
| General | Nominal sub-carrier spacing | - | 15 kHz |
| General | SSB sub-carrier spacing | - | 15 kHz |
| General | Nominal FFT size | - | 1024 for 10MHz BW, 2048 for 20MHz BW |
| General | Total channel bandwidth | - | Entry1: 10MHz Entry2: 20MHz |
| General | Number of spatial/antenna streams | - | Entry1: 4 Entry2: 2 |
| General | Fronthaul Ethernet link | - | 10Gbps x 1 lane |
| General | PRACH preamble format | - | Entry1: Long preamble F0 Entry2: Long preamble F1 |
| General | RU category | 4.2.1 | Category A |
| General | LAA | - | FALSE |
| Delay management | Network delay determination | 4.4.4.2 | Defined Transport Method |
| Delay management | RU adaptation of delay profile information (based on O-DU delay profile and transport delay) | 4.4.4.3 | FALSE |
| Delay management | O-DU timing advance type | 4.4.5-4.4.6, Annex B | Fixed Timing Advance |
| Delay management | T1a_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 437us |
| Delay management | T1a_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 366us |
| Delay management | T2a_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 437us |
| Delay management | T2a_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 206us |
| Delay management | Tcp_adv_dl | 4.3.2, Annex B | 125 us |
| Delay management | Ta3_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 232us |
| Delay management | Ta3_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 70us |
| Delay management | Ta4_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 392us |
| Delay management | Ta4_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 70us |
| Delay management | Ta3_max_up (scs=1.25kHz) | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 1650us |
| Delay management | Ta3_min_up (scs=1.25kHz) | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 827us |
| Delay management | Ta4_max_up (scs=1.25kHz) | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 1810us |
| Delay management | Ta4_min_up (scs=1.25kHz) | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 827us |
| Delay management | T1a_max_cp_ul | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 356us |
| Delay management | T1a_min_cp_ul | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 285us |
| Delay management | T2a_max_cp_ul | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 356us |
| Delay management | T2a_min_cp_ul | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 125us |
| Delay management | T12_max | 4.4, Annex B | 160 us |
| Delay management | T12_min | 4.4, Annex B | 0 us |
| Delay management | T34_max | 4.4, Annex B | 160 us |
| Delay management | T34_min | 4.4, Annex B | 0 us |
| Delay management | Non-delay managed U-Plane traffic | 4.4.7 | FALSE |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport encapsulation | 5.1.1-5.1.2 | Ethernet |
| C/U-Plane transport | Jumbo frames | 5.1.2 | FALSE |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport header | 5.1.3 | eCPRI |
| C/U-Plane transport | eCPRI concatenation | 5.1.3.1-5.1.3.2 | FALSE |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID DU_Port_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | 2 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID BandSector_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | 6 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID CC_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | 4 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID RU_Port_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | 4 |
| C/U-Plane transport | Fragmentation | 5.5 | Application layer fragmentation |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport prioritization across C/U/S/M-Plane | 5.3 | Default L2 CoS priority |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport prioritization within U-Plane | 5.3 | False (Default U-Plane priority applies) |
| C/U-Plane transport | Separation of C/U-Plane and M-Plane traffic | 5.4 | VLAN ID |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport-based separation within C/U-Plane traffic | 5.4 | FALSE |
| Digital Power Scaling | UL gain_correction | 8.1.3.2 | 0dB |
| Beamforming | RU beamforming type | 4.2.1..(10.1) | No beamforming |
| Beamforming | Beamforming control method | 7.3, Annex J | Beamforming ID based (always "0") |
| IQ compression | U-Plane data compression method | 8, Annex A | Block floating point |
| IQ compression | U-Plane data IQ bitwidth | 8, Annex D | Entry1: 9 Entry2: 12 Entry3: 14 |
| IQ compression | IQ data frame format not including udCompHdr field | 8.3.3.13 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 0 | 7.4.2 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 1 | 7.4.3 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 3 | 7.4.5 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 5 | 7.4.7 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 6 | 7.4.8 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 7 | 7.4.9 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | "symInc" flag | 7.5.3.3 | FALSE (always set to '0') |
| C-Plane | C-Plane for PRACH formats with preamble repetition | 7.2.3.4 | Single C-Plane message |
| C-Plane | Section extension 1 | 7.7.1 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 2 | 7.7.2 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 3 | 7.7.3 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 4 | 7.7.4 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 5 | 7.7.5 | FALSE |
| S-Plane | PTP Full Timing Support (G.8275.1) | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | TRUE |
| S-Plane | PTP Partial Timing Support (G.8275.2) | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | FALSE |
| S-Plane | Local PRTC | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | FALSE |
| S-Plane | Topology configuration | 11.2.2 10, 11.2.3 (for PLFS) | Entry1: lls-C2 (can also apply lls-C1) Entry2: lls-C3 |

### A.3.3 LTE FDD

#### A.3.3.1  LTE FDD IOT Profile 1 - LTE-FDD-FR1-CAT-B-DBF

Profile Test Configurations:

Table A.3.3.1-1: LTE FDD IOT Profile 1 - LTE-FDD-FR1-CAT-B-DBF

| Category | Item | Related O-RAN CUS-Plane specification section(s) |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| General | Radio access technology | - | LTE FDD |
| General | TDD configuration | - | NA |
| General | Nominal sub-carrier spacing | - | 15 kHz |
| General | SSB sub-carrier spacing | - | NA |
| General | Nominal FFT size | - | 2048 |
| General | Total channel bandwidth | - | Entry1: 20MHz Entry2: 20MHz+10MHz |
| General | Number of spatial/antenna streams | - | Entry1: 8 Entry2: 16 |
| General | Fronthaul Ethernet link | - | 25Gbps x 1lane for 8 spatial streams, 25Gbps x 2lane for 16 spatial streams |
| General | PRACH preamble format | - | 0 |
| General | RU category | 4.2.1 | Category B |
| General | LAA | - | FALSE |
| Delay management | Network delay determination | 4.4.4.2 | Defined Transport Method |
| Delay management | RU adaptation of delay profile information (based on O-DU delay profile and transport delay) | 4.4.4.3 | FALSE |
| Delay management | O-DU timing advance type | 4.4.5-4.4.6, Annex B | Fixed Timing Advance |
| Delay management | T1a_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 437us |
| Delay management | T1a_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 366us |
| Delay management | T2a_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 437us |
| Delay management | T2a_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 206us |
| Delay management | Tcp_adv_dl | 4.3.2, Annex B | 125 us |
| Delay management | Ta3_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 232us |
| Delay management | Ta3_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 70us |
| Delay management | Ta4_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 392us |
| Delay management | Ta4_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 70us |
| Delay management | T1a_max_cp_ul | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 356us |
| Delay management | T1a_min_cp_ul | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 285us |
| Delay management | T2a_max_cp_ul | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 356us |
| Delay management | T2a_min_cp_ul | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 125us |
| Delay management | T12_max | 4.4, Annex B | 160 us |
| Delay management | T12_min | 4.4, Annex B | 0 us |
| Delay management | T34_max | 4.4, Annex B | 160 us |
| Delay management | T34_min | 4.4, Annex B | 0 us |
| Delay management | Non-delay managed U-Plane traffic | 4.4.7 | FALSE |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport encapsulation | 5.1.1-5.1.2 | Ethernet |
| C/U-Plane transport | Jumbo frames | 5.1.2 | FALSE |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport header | 5.1.3 | eCPRI |
| C/U-Plane transport | eCPRI concatenation | 5.1.3.1-5.1.3.2 | FALSE |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID DU_Port_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | 2 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID BandSector_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | 3 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID CC_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | 3 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID RU_Port_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | 8 |
| C/U-Plane transport | Fragmentation | 5.5 | Application layer fragmentation |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport prioritization across C/U/S/M-Plane | 5.3 | Default L2 CoS priority |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport prioritization within U-Plane | 5.3 | False (Default U-Plane priority applies) |
| C/U-Plane transport | Separation of C/U-Plane and M-Plane traffic | 5.4 | VLAN ID |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport-based separation within C/U-Plane traffic | 5.4 | FALSE |
| Digital Power Scaling | UL gain_correction | 8.1.3.2 | 0dB |
| Beamforming | RU beamforming type | 4.2.1..(10.1) | Digital beamforming |
| Beamforming | Beamforming control method | 7.3, Annex J | Beamforming ID based |
| IQ compression | U-Plane data compression method | 8, Annex A | Block floating point |
| IQ compression | U-Plane data IQ bitwidth | 8, Annex D | Entry1: 9 Entry2: 12 |
| IQ compression | IQ data frame format not including udCompHdr field | 8.3.3.13 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 0 | 7.4.2 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 1 | 7.4.3 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 3 | 7.4.5 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 5 | 7.4.7 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 6 | 7.4.8 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 7 | 7.4.9 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | "symInc" flag | 7.5.3.3 | FALSE (always set to '0') |
| C-Plane | C-Plane for PRACH formats with preamble repetition | 7.2.3.4 | Single C-Plane message |
| C-Plane | Section extension 1 | 7.7.1 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 2 | 7.7.2 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 3 | 7.7.3 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 4 | 7.7.4 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 5 | 7.7.5 | FALSE |
| S-Plane | PTP Full Timing Support (G.8275.1) | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | TRUE |
| S-Plane | PTP Partial Timing Support (G.8275.2) | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | FALSE |
| S-Plane | Local PRTC | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | FALSE |
| S-Plane | Topology configuration | 11.2.2 10, 11.2.3 (for PLFS) | Entry1: lls-C2 Entry2: lls-C3 |

#### A.3.3.2  LTE FDD IOT Profile 2 - LTE-FDD-FR1-CAT-A-NoBF

Profile Test Configurations:

Table A.3.3.2-1: LTE FDD IOT Profile 2 - LTE-FDD-FR1-CAT-A-NoBF

| Category | Item | Related O-RAN CUS-Plane specification section(s) |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| General | Radio access technology | - | LTE FDD |
| General | TDD configuration | - | NA |
| General | Nominal sub-carrier spacing | - | 15 kHz |
| General | SSB sub-carrier spacing | - | NA |
| General | Nominal FFT size | - | 1024 for 10MHz BW, 1536 for 15MHz BW, 2048 for 20MHz BW |
| General | Total channel bandwidth | - | Entry1: 5MHz Entry2: 10MHz Entry3: 15MHz Entry4: 20MHz Entry5: 20MHz+20MHz Entry6: 20MHz+20MHz+20MHz |
| General | Number of spatial/antenna streams | - | Entry1: 2 Entry2: 4 |
| General | Fronthaul Ethernet link | - | 10Gbps x 1lane |
| General | PRACH preamble format | - | 0 |
| General | RU category | 4.2.1 | Category A |
| General | LAA | - | FALSE |
| Delay management | Network delay determination | 4.4.4.2 | Defined Transport Method |
| Delay management | RU adaptation of delay profile information (based on O-DU delay profile and transport delay) | 4.4.4.3 | FALSE |
| Delay management | O-DU timing advance type | 4.4.5-4.4.6, Annex B | Fixed Timing Advance |
| Delay management | T1a_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 437us |
| Delay management | T1a_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 366us |
| Delay management | T2a_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 437us |
| Delay management | T2a_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 206us |
| Delay management | Tcp_adv_dl | 4.3.2, Annex B | 125 us |
| Delay management | Ta3_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 232us |
| Delay management | Ta3_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 70us |
| Delay management | Ta4_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 392us |
| Delay management | Ta4_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 70us |
| Delay management | T1a_max_cp_ul | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 356us |
| Delay management | T1a_min_cp_ul | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 285us |
| Delay management | T2a_max_cp_ul | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 356us |
| Delay management | T2a_min_cp_ul | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 125us |
| Delay management | T12_max | 4.4, Annex B | 160 us |
| Delay management | T12_min | 4.4, Annex B | 0 us |
| Delay management | T34_max | 4.4, Annex B | 160 us |
| Delay management | T34_min | 4.4, Annex B | 0 us |
| Delay management | Non-delay managed U-Plane traffic | 4.4.7 | FALSE |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport encapsulation | 5.1.1-5.1.2 | Ethernet |
| C/U-Plane transport | Jumbo frames | 5.1.2 | Entry1: FALSE Entry2: TRUE |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport header | 5.1.3 | eCPRI |
| C/U-Plane transport | eCPRI concatenation | 5.1.3.1-5.1.3.2 | FALSE |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID DU_Port_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | 2 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID BandSector_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | 6 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID CC_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | 4 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID RU_Port_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | 4 |
| C/U-Plane transport | Fragmentation | 5.5 | Application layer fragmentation |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport prioritization across C/U/S/M-Plane | 5.3 | Default L2 CoS priority |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport prioritization within U-Plane | 5.3 | False (Default U-Plane priority applies) |
| C/U-Plane transport | Separation of C/U-Plane and M-Plane traffic | 5.4 | VLAN ID |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport-based separation within C/U-Plane traffic | 5.4 | FALSE |
| Digital Power Scaling | UL gain_correction | 8.1.3.2 | 0dB |
| Beamforming | RU beamforming type | 4.2.1..(10.1) | No beamforming |
| Beamforming | Beamforming control method | 7.3, Annex J | Beamforming ID based (always "0") |
| IQ compression | U-Plane data compression method | 8, Annex A | Entry1: Block floating point Entry2: No compression |
| IQ compression | U-Plane data IQ bitwidth | 8, Annex D | For Block floating point: Entry1: 9 Entry2: 12 For No compression: 16 |
| IQ compression | IQ data frame format not including udCompHdr field | 8.3.3.13 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 0 | 7.4.2 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 1 | 7.4.3 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 3 | 7.4.5 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 5 | 7.4.7 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 6 | 7.4.8 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 7 | 7.4.9 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | "symInc" flag | 7.5.3.3 | FALSE (always set to '0') |
| C-Plane | C-Plane for PRACH formats with preamble repetition | 7.2.3.4 | Single C-Plane message |
| C-Plane | Section extension 1 | 7.7.1 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 2 | 7.7.2 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 3 | 7.7.3 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 4 | 7.7.4 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 5 | 7.7.5 | FALSE |
| S-Plane | PTP Full Timing Support (G.8275.1) | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | TRUE |
| S-Plane | PTP Partial Timing Support (G.8275.2) | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | FALSE |
| S-Plane | Local PRTC | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | FALSE |
| S-Plane | Topology configuration | 11.2.2 10, 11.2.3 (for PLFS) | Entry1: lls-C1 (can also apply lls-C2) Entry2: lls-C3 |

### A.3.4 LTE TDD

#### A.3.4.1  LTE TDD IOT Profile 1 - LTE-TDD-FR1-CAT-A-DBF

Profile Test Configurations:

Table A.3.4.1-1: LTE TDD IOT Profile 1 - LTE-TDD-FR1-CAT-A-DBF

| Category | Item | Related O-RAN CUS-Plane specification section(s) |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| General | Radio access technology | - | LTE TDD |
| General | TDD configuration | - | subframeAssignment sa2 |
| General | Nominal sub-carrier spacing | - | 15 kHz |
| General | SSB sub-carrier spacing | - | NA |
| General | Nominal FFT size | - | 1024 for 10MHz BW, 2048 for 20MHz BW |
| General | Total channel bandwidth | - | Entry1: 20MHz Entry2: 20MHz+10MHz Entry3: 20MHz+20MHz |
| General | Number of spatial/antenna streams | - | 8 |
| General | Fronthaul Ethernet link | - | 10Gbps x 1 lane for 20MHz 10Gbps x 2 lane for 20MHz+10MHz, 20MHz+20MHz |
| General | PRACH preamble format | - | 0 |
| General | RU category | 4.2.1 | Category A |
| General | LAA | - | FALSE |
| Delay management | Network delay determination | 4.4.4.2 | Defined Transport Method |
| Delay management | RU adaptation of delay profile information (based on O-DU delay profile and transport delay) | 4.4.4.3 | FALSE |
| Delay management | O-DU timing advance type | 4.4.5-4.4.6, Annex B | Fixed Timing Advance |
| Delay management | T1a_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 437us |
| Delay management | T1a_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 366us |
| Delay management | T2a_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 437us |
| Delay management | T2a_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 206us |
| Delay management | Tcp_adv_dl | 4.3.2, Annex B | 125 us |
| Delay management | Ta3_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 232us |
| Delay management | Ta3_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 70us |
| Delay management | Ta4_max_up | 4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 392us |
| Delay management | Ta4_min_up | 4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 70us |
| Delay management | T1a_max_cp_ul | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 356us |
| Delay management | T1a_min_cp_ul | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 285us |
| Delay management | T2a_max_cp_ul | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | More than or equal to 356us |
| Delay management | T2a_min_cp_ul | 4.4.3-4.4.4, Annex B | Less than or equal to 125us |
| Delay management | T12_max | 4.4, Annex B | 160 us |
| Delay management | T12_min | 4.4, Annex B | 0 us |
| Delay management | T34_max | 4.4, Annex B | 160 us |
| Delay management | T34_min | 4.4, Annex B | 0 us |
| Delay management | Non-delay managed U-Plane traffic | 4.4.7 | FALSE |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport encapsulation | 5.1.1-5.1.2 | Ethernet |
| C/U-Plane transport | Jumbo frames | 5.1.2 | FALSE |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport header | 5.1.3 | eCPRI |
| C/U-Plane transport | eCPRI concatenation | 5.1.3.1-5.1.3.2 | FALSE |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID DU_Port_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | 4 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID BandSector_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | 3 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID CC_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | 3 |
| C/U-Plane transport | eAxC ID RU_Port_ID bitwidth | 5.1.3.2.7 | 6 |
| C/U-Plane transport | Fragmentation | 5.5 | Application layer fragmentation |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport prioritization across C/U/S/M-Plane | 5.3 | Default L2 CoS priority |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport prioritization within U-Plane | 5.3 | False (Default U-Plane priority applies)-Plane |
| C/U-Plane transport | Separation of C/U-Plane and M-Plane traffic | 5.4 | VLAN ID |
| C/U-Plane transport | Transport-based separation within C/U-Plane traffic | 5.4 | FALSE |
| Digital Power Scaling | UL gain_correction | 8.1.3.2 | 0dB |
| Beamforming | RU beamforming type | 4.2.1..(10.1) | Digital beamforming |
| Beamforming | Beamforming control method | 7.3, Annex J | Beamforming weight based |
| IQ compression | U-Plane data compression method | 8, Annex A | Entry1: Block floating point Entry2: No compression |
| IQ compression | U-Plane data IQ bitwidth | 8, Annex D | 9 for Block floating point, 16 for No compression |
| IQ compression | IQ data frame format not including udCompHdr field | 8.3.3.13 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 0 | 7.4.2 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 1 | 7.4.3 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 3 | 7.4.5 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 5 | 7.4.7 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 6 | 7.4.8 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section Type 7 | 7.4.9 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | "symInc" flag | 7.5.3.3 | FALSE (always set to '0') |
| C-Plane | C-Plane for PRACH formats with preamble repetition | 7.2.3.4 | Single C-Plane message |
| C-Plane | Section extension 1 | 7.7.1 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 2 | 7.7.2 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 3 | 7.7.3 | TRUE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 4 | 7.7.4 | FALSE |
| C-Plane | Section extension 5 | 7.7.5 | FALSE |
| S-Plane | PTP Full Timing Support (G.8275.1) | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | TRUE |
| S-Plane | PTP Partial Timing Support (G.8275.2) | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | FALSE |
| S-Plane | Local PRTC | 5.2.3, 10.1, 11 | FALSE |
| S-Plane | Topology configuration | 11.2.2 10, 11.2.3 (for PLFS) | Entry1: lls-C2 Entry2: lls-C3 |

## A.4 Delay Sets

### A.4.1 NR TDD FR1 Cat-B mMIMO WDBF Delay Sets for DMRS-BF profiles

Table A.4.1-1 defines the Delay Sets for NR TDD FR1 Cat-B mMIMO WDBF when used in DMRS-BF profiles. For IOT entry, both O-DU and O-RU shall share at least one common Delay Set.

| C/U-Plane timing parameters | Range | DS-W1 (WDBF DS1) | DS-W2 (WDBF DS2) |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| T1a_max_up | Less than or equal to | 345 us | 475 us |
| T1a_min_up | More than or equal to | 294 us | 400 us |
| T1a_max_cp_dl | Less than or equal to | 669 us | 971 us |
| T1a_min_cp_dl | More than or equal to | 419 us | 550 us |
| T2a_max_up | More than or equal to | 345 us | 475 us |
| T2a_min_up | Less than or equal to | 134 us | 240 us |
| T2a_max_cp_dl | More than or equal to | 669 us | 971 us |
| T2a_min_cp_dl | Less than or equal to | 259 us | 390 us |
| Tcp_adv_dl |  | 125 us | 150 us |
| Ta3_max_up | Less than or equal to | 171 us | 280 us |
| Ta3_min_up | More than or equal to | 50 us |  |
| Ta4_max_up | More than or equal to | 331 us | 440 us |
| Ta4_min_up | Less than or equal to | 50 us |  |
| Ta3_max_up (scs=1.25kHz) | Less than or equal to | 1650 us |  |
| Ta3_min_up (scs=1.25kHz) | More than or equal to | 827 us |  |
| Ta4_max_up (scs=1.25kHz) | More than or equal to | 1810 us |  |
| Ta4_min_up (scs=1.25kHz) | Less than or equal to | 827 us |  |
| T1a_max_cp_ul | Less than or equal to | 840 us |  |
| T1a_min_cp_ul | More than or equal to | 660 us |  |
| T2a_max_cp_ul | More than or equal to | 840 us |  |
| T2a_min_cp_ul | Less than or equal to | 500 us |  |

### A.4.2 NR TDD FR1 Cat-B mMIMO CIBF Delay Sets

Delay Set for NR TDD FR1 Cat-B mMIMO CIBF is defined in Table A.4.2-1.

| C/U-Plane timing parameters | Range | DS-C1 (CIBF DS1) |
| --- | --- | --- |
| T1a_max_up | Less than or equal to | 345 us |
| T1a_min_up | More than or equal to | 294 us |
| T1a_max_cp_dl | Less than or equal to | 820 us |
| T1a_min_cp_dl | More than or equal to | 769 us |
| T2a_max_up | More than or equal to | 345 us |
| T2a_min_up | Less than or equal to | 134 us |
| T2a_max_cp_dl | More than or equal to | 820 us |
| T2a_min_cp_dl | Less than or equal to | 609 us |
| Tcp_adv_dl |  | 475 us |
| Ta3_max_up | Less than or equal to | 171 us |
| Ta3_min_up | More than or equal to | 50 us |
| Ta4_max_up | More than or equal to | 331 us |
| Ta4_min_up | Less than or equal to | 50 us |
| Ta3_max_up (scs=1.25kHz) | Less than or equal to | 1650 us |
| Ta3_min_up (scs=1.25kHz) | More than or equal to | 827 us |
| Ta4_max_up (scs=1.25kHz) | More than or equal to | 1810 us |
| Ta4_min_up (scs=1.25kHz) | Less than or equal to | 827 us |
| T1a_max_cp_ul | Less than or equal to | 336 us |
| T1a_min_cp_ul | More than or equal to | 285 us |
| T2a_max_cp_ul | More than or equal to | 336 us |
| T2a_min_cp_ul | Less than or equal to | 125 us |

### A.4.3 NR TDD FR1 Cat-B mMIMO DMRS-BF Delay Sets

The Delay Sets specified in Table A.4.3-1 apply to both DMRS-BF-EQ and DMRS-BF-NEQ. For entry to IOT testing, both O-DU and O-RU shall share at least one common Delay Set. DS-D1 (DMRS-BF DS 1) is recommended for interoperability testing. DS-D2 (DMRS-BF DS 2) may alternatively be used for interoperability testing. For profiles in which measurements are not required, support for 2g timing parameters is optional.

| C/U-Plane timing parameters | Range | DS-D1 (DMRS-BF DS 1) | DS-D2 (DMRS-BF DS 2) |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Ta3_max_2g | Less than or equal to | 1280 us |  |
| Ta3_min_2g | More than or equal to | 571 us |  |
| Ta4_max_2g | More than or equal to | 1440 us |  |
| Ta4_min_2g | Less than or equal to | 571 us |  |
| Ta3_max_up | Less than or equal to | 1080 us | 1180 us |
| Ta3_min_up | More than or equal to | 823 us | 886 us |
| Ta4_max_up | More than or equal to | 1240 us | 1340 us |
| Ta4_min_up | Less than or equal to | 823 us | 886 us |
| T1a_max_cp_ul (NOTE) | Less than or equal to | 840 us |  |
| T1a_min_cp_ul (NOTE) | More than or equal to | 660 us |  |
| T2a_max_cp_ul (NOTE) | More than or equal to | 840 us |  |
| T2a_min_cp_ul (NOTE) | Less than or equal to | 500 us |  |
| NOTE:	This is applicable to all C-plane messages constrained by T2a_max_cp_ul and T2a_min_cp_ul sent to the DMRS-BF endpoint. |  |  |  |


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG4.TS.IOT.0-R004-v14.01.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG4.TS.IOT.0-R004-v14.01 Technical Specification Fronthaul Interoperability Test Specification (IOT)"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1]. C-Plane Control Plane: refers specifically to real-time control between O-DU and O-RU, and should not be confused with the UE’s control plane Customized IOT Configuration A set of IOT parameters not matching any specific IOT Profile Test Configuration that may be defined by anyone wanting to execute an interoperability test defined in this specification but instead using a custom set of test parameters DL DownLink: data flow towards the radiating antenna Delay Set Collection of timing values specific to one (or more) beamforming methods. A Delay Set (DS) can include all or part of the timing values of a beamforming method eNB eNodeB (applies to LTE) <E-UTRAN NodeB / Evolved NodeB> fm-pm Fault Management, Performance Management role gNB gNodeB (applies to NR) <Next Generation NodeB> IOT Profile A high-level interoperability test configuration definition under which multiple more-detailed IOT Profile Test Configurations may fit, allowing the grouping of test cases in broad categories IOT Profile Test Configuration An interoperability test configuration defined within this specification that includes detailed parameter values that are representative of typical deployment cases, such that the results of interoperability tests using such a configuration may guide an understanding of the ability of a multi-vendor deployment to interoperate M-Plane Management Plane: refers to non-real-time management operations between the O-DU and the O- RU NETCONF Network Configuration Protocol. For details see RFC 6241, “Network Configuration Protocol (NETCONF)”, IETF, June 2011 NMS A Network Management System dedicated to O-RU operations nms NMS role NOT REQ No requirement on the O-DU or O-RU as an entry criterion for IOT testing for a given functionality. The O-DU may support the functionality. The O-RU may support the functionality. See Table A.1-1 NSA Non-Stand-Alone network mode that supports operation of SgNB attached to MeNB O-CU O-RAN Central Unit – a logical node hosting PDCP, RRC, SDAP and other control functions O-DU O-RAN Distributed Unit: a logical node hosting RLC/MAC/High-PHY layers based on a lower layer functional split. O-DU in addition hosts an M-Plane instance O-RU O-RAN Radio Unit <O-RAN Radio Unit: a logical node hosting Low-PHY layer and RF processing based on a lower layer functional split. This is similar to 3GPP’s “TRP” or “RRH” but more specific in including the Low-PHY layer (FFT/iFFT, PRACH extraction).>. O-RU in addition hosts M-Plane instance O-RU REQ The O-RU supports the functionality as an entry criterion for IOT testing. The O-DU may support the functionality. See Table A.1-1 PLFS Physical Layer Frequency Support, as per ITU-T G.8271.1. SyncE is one example PTP Precision Time Protocol (PTP) is a protocol for distributing precise time and frequency over packet networks. PTP is specified in the IEEE Standard 1588 PDCCH Physical Downlink Control Channel applies for LTE and NR air interface PBCH Physical Broadcast Channel applies for LTE and NR air interface REQ The O-DU and O-RU support the functionality as an entry criterion for IOT testing. See Table A.1-1 SA Stand-Alone network mode that supports operation of gNB attached to a 5G Core Network SCS OFDM Sub Carrier Spacing SSH Secure Shell protocol for remote login SSB Synchronization Signal Block, in 5G PBCH and synchronization signal are packaged as a single block sudo Super-User Do role subordinate The term “subordinate” is used as a replacement for “slave” and is consistent with its use in O- RAN WG4 CUS Specification [2]. When consensus emerges on how to eliminate the use of the term “slave” in the referenced standards organization, that approach will be applied to this specification swm Software fault management role S-Plane Synchronization Plane: Data flow for synchronization and timing information between nodes SyncE Synchronous Ethernet, is an ITU-T standard for computer networking that facilitates distribution of clock signals over the Ethernet physical layer T-BC Telecom Boundary Clock TLS Transport Layer Security protocol TWAMP Two-Way Active Measurement Protocol UDP User Datagram Protocol UE User Equipment terminology for a mobile device in LTE and NR UL UpLink: data flow from the UE towards the core network, that is from the O-RU towards in the O- DU in a Fronthaul context U-Plane User Plane: refers to IQ sample data transferred between O-DU and O-RU

## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1]. 5GS 5G System, comprises the access network, core network and user equipment ARFCN Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number BFN Beamforming network CC Component Carrier CN Core Network C/U-Plane C-Plane and U-Plane DHCP Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol DL DownLink DS Delay Set DUT Device Under Test eNB eNodeB EARFCN E-UTRA ARFCN EVM Error Vector Magnitude FH Fronthaul GSCN Global Synchronization Channel Number gNB gNodeB MeNB Master eNB MIMO Multiple Input Multiple Output M-MIMO Massive MIMO mMIMO M-MIMO NES Network Energy Saving NETCONF Network Configuration Protocol NMS Network Management System NSA Non-Stand-Alone O-CU O-RAN Central Unit O-DU O-RAN Distributed Unit O-RU O-RAN Radio Unit OTA Over the Air PBCH Physical Broadcast Channel PCI Physical Cell Identity PRTC Primary Reference Time Clock PTC Profile Test Configuration RF Radio Frequency RSRP Reference Signal Received Power SA Stand-Alone SCS Sub Carrier Spacing SDAP Service Data Adaptation Protocol SgNB Secondary gNB SSB Synchronization Signal Block UE User Equipment UL UpLink U-Plane User Plane

# 4 Fronthaul Interoperability

## 4.1 General
O-RAN WG4 has specified and published the O-RAN FH interface specifications (CUS-Plane [2] and M-Plane [3]) with the objective to enable interoperability of O-DU and O-RU from different vendors. The aim of the present document is to further facilitate such multi-vendor IOT using the O-RAN FH interface by defining standard test configurations, IOT profiles and interoperability test cases. It shall be possible to perform interoperability testing in a non-intrusive manner; that is, in a manner in which the network elements under test are not required to support any functionality or mode of operation beyond that required for normal operation in a telecommunication network. However, making the endpoints of the FH interface between the O- DU and O-RU visible would require definition of new interfaces which may entail caching and transport of data. Furthermore, and more importantly, operators require that the total radio system functions and performs adequately when integrating O-DU and O-RU from different vendors. Consequentially, this specification approaches interoperability testing by means of system level testing. FH interoperability testing by way of system test involves creation of a stimulus in the O-DU to O-RU direction using an actual or emulated O-CU, potentially with CN support/emulation, and measurement of the result at the output of the O-RU in the RF domain by an actual or emulated UE together with an RF signal/spectrum analyzer as required. Likewise, in the reverse direction, the stimulus to probe the FH in the O-RU to O-DU direction is provided by an actual or emulated UE and is measured at the output of the O-DU by an actual or emulated O-CU with CN support/emulation as required. Inasmuch as the interoperability testing by way of system test involves configuring and collecting results from the O- RU it shall be effected by means of the M-Plane FH interface. For elements that fall outside of this scope, such as the O-DU, the configuration and collection of data and status information for testing purposes may be accomplished by NMS. Interoperability involves testing the FH interface in terms of M-Plane, S-Plane, C-Plane and U-Plane. Some aspects of these planes may be tested independently. However, some tests, such as those that require the devices to be brought into service and a call established entail simultaneous activity across multiple planes. The status of the test can be MANDATORY, CONDITIONAL MANDATORY or OPTIONAL. Note that test that is MANDATORY is required to be performed for interoperability testing. The test that is CONDIONAL MANDATORY is only required to be performed if the specific condition(s) are met. If a test is OPTIONAL, it does not need to be included in interoperability testing but could be included if desired.

## 4.2 Summary of Test Scenarios
The following set of interoperability test cases are defined for the current version of WG4 FH IOT specification.
- FH tests focused on the M-Plane:
o Start-up (O-RU start-up from the power-on of O-RU to the availability of service) o Network energy saving: deep-hibernate technique
- FH tests focused on the S-Plane:
o Synchronization status detection o Frequency and time error (performance)
- FH tests focused on the C/U-Planes:
o Radio Layer 3 C-Plane establishment and Initial Radio U-Plane data transfer o Radio downlink U-Plane data transfer (Downlink throughput performance) o Radio uplink U-Plane data transfer (Uplink throughput performance)
- FH tests focused on the C/U-Plane Delay Management
o Test with minimum, intermediate, maximum, and excess latency

## 4.3 Future Enhancements
Additional test cases are under consideration for the future versions of the present document. A non-exhaustive list of candidate test cases for future versions is provided below:
- FH tests focused on the M-Plane:
o Software management (O-RU software update) o Fault management o File management
- FH tests focused on the C/U-Plane:
o Beamforming (testing the actual characteristics of the radiated/received signals at O-RU) o Compression (testing different compression methods and IQ bitwidth and validating expected performance) Note: beamforming and compression are tested as part of the IOT cases already specified in Clause 8 and the relevant IOT profiles (refer to Annex A for more details). The test cases above extend the capability to test the fronthaul interface in respect of these features. o Multiple O-RUs o Multiple UEs

## 4.4 Fronthaul M-Plane Architectural options
As described in the “O-RAN WG4 Management Plane Specification” [3], two architectural models are supported, namely a “hierarchical” and a “hybrid” model. As a general guideline the following apply, 1. Hierarchical model: The O-RU is entirely managed by one O-DU (sudo) using a NETCONF based M-Plane interface. 2. Hybrid model: The architecture allows one or more direct logical interface(s) between management system(s) (performing different roles, nms, fm-pm, swm, etc) and O-RU in addition to a logical interface between O-DU (sudo role) and the O-RU.

## 4.5 Fronthaul Synchronization options
Various synchronization options have been specified in the O-RAN WG4 CUS-Plane Specification [2] (LLS-C1, LLS- C2, LLS-C3 and LLS-C4). Depending on the specific O-RAN deployment being considered, not all of them might be relevant. When testing the S-Plane, the System Integrator shall identify which of the test cases are relevant depending on the specific deployment scenarios addressed. As a general guideline the following applies: 1. Direct connection between O-DU and O-RU: LLS-C1 is generally the main sync option to be validated LLS-C4 may be considered as an alternative or as a complement to LLS-C1 2. Bridged network between O-DU and O-RU LLS-C2 for cases where the synchronization is delivered to the O-RU via the O-DU and over the bridged network. In this case the PRTC/PRC may be embedded in the O-DU or may be located anywhere in the network (connected via backhaul or FH transport). LLS-C3 for cases when the synchronization is distributed to the O-RU without involving the O-DU In this case the PRTC/PRC may be located anywhere in the network (connected via backhaul or FH transport) and may also be co-located with the O-DU. LLS-C4 may be considered as alternative or as a complement to LLS-C2/LLS-C3. LLS-C4 is not addressed in the present document. The FH focused tests for S-Plane for the current version of this specification covers LLS-C1, LLS-C2 and LLS-C3 using the ITU-T G.8275.1 [5] profile (Full Timing Support). FH focused tests for S-Plane for LLS-C1, LLS-C2 and LLS-C3 using the ITU-T G.8275.2 [6] profile (Partial Timing Support), and LLS-C4 are not addressed in the present document.

# 5 Interoperability Measurements

## 5.1 Interoperability Standard Test Definitions

### 5.1.1 Standard Test Configurations
Interoperability testing is performed to prove that the end-to-end functionality between the O-DU and O-RU is as required by the O-RAN FH CUS-Plane [2] and M-Plane [3] specifications on which these components are based. This requires system level testing with O-DU and O-RU as an integrated system.

### 5.1.2 Device Under Test (DUT)
The case where the O-DU and O-RU are provided by different vendors is the focus of the present document, but the case where both are from the same vendor is also valid. The O-DU and O-RU, with their interconnecting FH, is considered as the DUT. This is the same whether the O-CU and O-DU are implemented as an aggregated node, or as disaggregated nodes. For simplicity and without prejudice the tests in the following sections are defined with reference to a disaggregated O- DU. However, the tests apply equally when the O-DU is replaced by the O-DU functionality of an aggregated O-CU/O- DU and where the Layer 2 and Layer 3 radio processing on the network side is provided by the O-CU functionality of the combined-node. Any differences to the test due to replacement of the disaggregated O-DU with an aggregated O- CU/O-DU are detailed as they arise. The simplest test configuration involves a single O-DU and a single O-RU. In this configuration, the O-DU and O-RU are labelled as DUT1(O-DU) and DUT1(O-RU) respectively. More advanced test configurations will involve defining the cardinality between the 1…M O-DU(s) and 1…N O-RU(s) as part of the test scenario which will determine the configuration required. An example of such test configuration is to have a single O-DU connected to multiple N O-RUs. In this example, the O- DU is labelled as DUT1(O-DU) and the O-RU(s) are labelled as DUT1(O-RU) ... DUTN(O-RU) accordingly. A second example is to have multiple M O-DUs connected to multiple N O-RUs. In this second example, the O-DUs are labelled as DUT1(O-DU) … DUTM(O-DU) and the O-RU(s) are labelled as DUT1(O-RU) ... DUTN(O-RU) accordingly. However, deployment scenarios where a single O-RU is managed and used by more than one O-DU is not addressed in this version of the WG4 FH IOT Specification. External physical and or logical connection between the O-DUs and O-RUs are to be specified in the IOT profiles (eg, number of 10/25/40GE). The IOT profile specifies a complete DL and UL configuration to be used for the DUT subject to IOT. An O-DU and an O-RU are considered interoperable under a PTC if the DUT can pass all mandatory and applicable conditional mandatory tests using the specific PTC.

### 5.1.3 Network Management System (NMS)
Network Management System (NMS) is required to support M-Plane testing particularly in the Hybrid architecture model as the O-RU has logical connection with the NMS [3]. In the hierarchical model, the NMS manages the O-DU and the O-DU manages the O-RU respectively. External physical and or logical connection between the NMS and O-DUs and O-RUs are to be specified in the IOT profiles (eg, number of 10/25/40GE), see Annex A for details.

### 5.1.4 Testing Tools
One of the key objectives of interoperability testing is to validate the functionality of production grade DUTs. Hence it is important to ensure that the DUTs are not negatively impacted with the utilization of internal functions solely to support interoperability testing. ie, DUTs are not expected to be testing tools when deployed in production networks and therefore DUTs should not be used as testing tools during interoperability tests. Interoperability tests are performed with a set of testing tools which are used to both apply active stimulus and as well as passive monitoring and measurements of the DUTs. The test is applicable to deployment scenarios where the O-CU and O-DU are implemented as disaggregated nodes connected by an F1 interface and scenarios where they are implemented as an aggregated node without an accessible F1 interface. The deployment scenario where the 4G LTE eNB is implemented as disaggregated 4G O-CU and 4G O-DU nodes connected by a W1 interface is not addressed in the present document. Active stimulus testing tools:
- 5G NR O-CU or O-CU emulator: either as a disaggregated node or as an aggregated node with O-DUs
(DUT): used to provide Layer 2 and Layer 3 radio processing on the network side. In case of disaggregated nodes, terminates the 3GPP 5G F1 interface with the O-DU (DUT) o O-CU and O-CU emulator can be connected to either a real Core network or emulated Core. An emulated Core can be simpler to deploy for interoperability testing purposes o External physical and or logical connection between the O-CU or O-CU emulator with the O-DU (DUT), if any, will be lab setup dependent either through physical or wireless medium DU (right). beamforming network is optional, indicated by the grey box with dashed outline; it is used for beamforming IOT profiles.
- 4G LTE MeNB or MeNB emulator: used to terminate the 3GPP EN-DC X2 interface with the 5G NR O-CU
or O-CU emulator o Required when the DUTs (O-DU and O-RU) are configured to operate 5G NR NSA option 3/3a/3x o 4G LTE MeNB or MeNB emulator can either have physical or logical connection with the Test UE or UE emulator. RF connection between the 4G LTE MeNB or MeNB emulator with the Test UE or UE emulator will be either through cabled connection or Over the Air (OTA)
- Test UEs and/or UEs emulator and optional beamforming network (for beamforming IOT profiles):
used to generate stateful device connections and traffic to validate the O-DU and O-RU implementation of the O-RAN FH interface protocols as these are stimulated by the 3GPP upper layer protocols. The beamforming network (BFN), for example a Butler Matrix, is used to generate a static RF channel with rank not lower than the number of spatial streams required for the beamforming IOT profiles o Required so that the O-RU which is the DUT does not need to be put into a “test mode” which does not happen in live deployments o Test UEs will require SIM cards which are pre-provisioned with subscriber profiles. UEs used for testing can be simpler to setup but given that these Test UEs are designed to be commercial UEs with possibly certain diagnostic functions enabled for logging purposes, they are limited in terms of configurability o UEs emulator will require SIM profile configuration with the subscriber’s profiles. UEs emulator can be used in test scenarios which require multiple UEs’ sessions, more flexibility and configurability to help drive test scenarios o RF connection between the Test UEs or UEs emulator with the O-RU (DUT) will be either through cabled connection or OTA. However, in case BFN is used, the RF connection between the Test UEs or UEs emulator and the BFN is via cable and the RF connection between BFN and O-RU (DUT) is also via cable. The use of OTA for beamforming IOT profiles is not addressed in the present document Passive monitoring and measurements testing tools:
- Test UEs and/or UEs emulator: used to produce measurements and logs
o Measurements and KPIs logs for test case validation and reporting o Diagnostics logs for troubleshooting purposes which can help with test setup validation and root cause analysis for failed test cases o Diagnostics mode is enabled on the Test UEs for diagnostic logging purposes. Device logging tools are connected to the Test UEs for logging purposes o UEs used for testing can be simpler to setup but given that these Test UEs are designed to be commercial UEs, they are limited in terms of diagnostic logging capabilities due to limited processing and buffer space o UEs emulator can be used in test scenarios which require extensive diagnostics capabilities
- Application Test Server: An endpoint application test traffic emulator which can be used to generate
and/terminate various traffic streams to or from the Test UEs/UEs emulator respectively. May provide one or more of these options, o Stateful traffic, eg, TCP, TWAMP o Stateless traffic eg, UDP o Required to place traffic load on the DUT o External physical and or logical connection between Application Test Server and O-CU/O-CU emulator is out of scope of the specification
- Test results and KPIs reporting: which can be provided through one or more of these options
o UE logging tools which are connected to the Test UEs o Device emulator reporting dashboards typically built in as part of the Device emulator solution o External dashboard and reporting applications
- FH Protocol Analyzer: used for protocol analysis of O-RAN FH protocols to achieve the following:
o Test case validation which can help with test setup validation and troubleshooting purposes for root cause analysis for test cases which fail o Understanding which capabilities were used during test execution o Decoding and validation of M-Plane flow sequencing prior to SSH/TLS secure connection establishment o Monitoring traffic from the O-RAN FH typically through a tap or span port. Taps are typically preferred as span ports are less reliable but can be used if taps are not readily available in the test lab. Connectivity specifics (eg, number of 10/25/40GE) are to be specified in the IOT profiles
- RF Spectrum and Beam Signal Analyzer: used for RF and Beam power and quality analysis for:
o Test case validation and troubleshooting which can help with test setup validation and root cause analysis for test cases which fail Eg, the Beam Signal Analyzer can be used to validate that the O-RUs (DUT) are in-service, configured and operating correctly, which in case of 5G, includes validating that the SS/PBCH blocks (SSB) are configured with the correct Sub Carrier Spacing (SCS), transmitted at the correct frequency locations (can be offset from the center frequency), and in case of both 4G and 5G, burst periods with the correct Physical Cell Identities (PCI), Beam Identifiers and, expected power and quality o RF Spectrum and Beam Signal Analyzer performs OTA RF measurements and signal analysis
- O-CU or O-CU emulator
- MeNB or MeNB emulator
- Core or Core emulator:
o Used to produce measurements and diagnostics logs for troubleshooting purposes which can help with test setup validation and root cause analysis for test cases which fail DU (right). network is optional, indicated by the grey box with dashed outline; it is used for beamforming IOT profiles.

### 5.1.5 Time Synchronization
All the components including the DUTs (O-DUs and O-RUs) and the Testing Tools are required to be synchronized to a common system time and master time source unless otherwise stated. Synchronization Plane (S-Plane) configuration for the DUTs is specified in the IOT profiles (see Annex A for details). Test tools shall be time synchronized to the master timing source with PTP.

### 5.1.6 Assumptions
In this version of the WG4 FH IOT specifications, the following assumptions apply
- All wireline transport interfaces and the air interface are assumed to conform to ideal conditions (no
impairments).
- All wireless connection assumed to adopt 3GPP approaches for “ideal” RF environment for test setup.
- O-DU and O-RU comply to the same version of the O-RAN FH interface specifications.
- All elements in the interoperability test and the supporting test environment, where 3GPP support is relevant,
comply to the same version of the 3GPP Specification.
- All O-RUs involved in a test are of the same category; all A or all B.

### 5.1.7 Specifications to be used for testing
In this version of the WG4 FH IOT specifications, the following sets of specifications and releases/versions shall be supported
- O-RAN FH
o Control, User and Synchronization Plane Specification [2] o Management Plane Specification [3] o Management Plane Yang Models [4]
- eCPRI
o eCPRI Specification V1.0 “Common Public Radio Interface: eCPRI Interface Specification” [11] It is important to ensure that all DUTs (O-DU and O-RU) and Testing Tools use compatible release/version of the O-RAN FH and eCPRI specifications [11] which in this version of the WG4 FH IOT Specification is ensured by use of the same version.
- 3GPP
o Release 15 December 2018 and later versions specifications It is important to ensure that all DUTs (O-DU and O-RU) and Testing Tools use compatible release/version of the 3GPP specifications, which in this version of the WG4 FH IOT Specification is ensured by use of the same version.

### 5.1.8 Interoperability (IOT) Test Profiles
The IOT Profiles are specified in Annex A. Under each profile, one or more Profile Test Configurations is defined, which specify test entry criteria (parameter values supported) on O-DU and O-RU undergoing IOT testing. There may be cases where the precise values of parameters in an IOT Profile Test Configuration cannot be used, perhaps due to equipment limitations or licensing rules. For example, a tester may only be licensed to utilize 90MHz of spectrum, for which no relevant IOT Profile Test Configuration is defined. In such a case the tester may choose to define a Customized IOT Configuration which will generally be similar to a defined IOT Profile Test Configuration but with some variations in parameter values. For example, a tester may choose to define a Customized IOT Configuration that would fall under the “NR-TDD-FR2-CAT-A-ABF” IOT Profile but use five 100MHz component carriers, which is not defined in any of the IOT Profile Test Configurations under the “NR-TDD-FR2-CAT-A-ABF” IOT Profile. Some IOT profiles specify multiple beamforming methods, with each beamforming method specifying different C/U- Plane timing relationships (delay values). In such cases, allowed delay values can be specified separately from the profile table. The allowed delay values are specified as Delay Sets. A Delay Set (DS) is a collection of timing values specific to one beamforming method. If a separate delay table is specified for an IOT profile enumerating allowed Delay Sets, then the IOT test entry criterion includes that the O-DU and O-RU both can be configured with at least one common Delay Set for each beamforming method specified in the IOT profile.
- EXAMPLE 1: If an O-DU can configure DS1 and DS3 for a beamforming method and the O-RU supports
DS2 for the same beamforming method, they cannot be tested together
- EXAMPLE 2: If an O-DU can configure DS1 and DS2 for a beamforming method and the O-RU supports
DS2 for the same beamforming method, they can be tested (using DS2)
- EXAMPLE 3: If an O-DU can configure DS1 for beamforming method #1 and DS2 and DS3 for beamforming
method #2, and the profile specifies both beamforming methods to be tested, the IOT testing using this profile requires an O-RU which can support DS1 for beamforming method #1 and either supports DS2 or DS3 (or both) for beamforming method #2 Normally when reporting the result of an interoperability test, the tester may cite only the IOT Profile Test Configuration name (along with the relevant version of the present document containing the IOT Profile Test Configuration definition), which can be used to understand the full test situation by consulting Annex A. In the case of reporting the results of an interoperability test using a Customized IOT Configuration, the tester should also provide a complete list of parameter values to allow a reader to understand the full test scenario. Table A.1-2 identifies whether a particular IOT profile parameter is modifiable or forbidden in definition of a Customized IOT Configuration.

### 5.1.9 Measurements of interest
- Availability (eg, are the DUTs in service)
- Accessibility (eg, can the device connect to the network)
- Retainability (eg, can the device connection be maintained)
- Mobility (eg, moving between two O-RUs)
- Integrity (eg, data transfers between the device and the network)

## 5.2 Standard Test Data Configurations
The test data configurations are specified as part of the IOT profiles in Annex A.

## 5.3 Standard Test Execution
Most interoperability tests will follow a standard execution plan although individual tests are expected to deviate from this in some way. By defining the standard execution plan an understanding of how tests are arranged can be gained, thereafter examining individual tests can reveal how deviations from the standard execution plan may be defined.

## 5.4 Interoperability Test Cases
As stated in the introduction, interoperability involves testing the FH interface in terms of M-Plane, S-Plane, C-Plane and U-Plane. Some aspects of these planes may be tested independently. However, some tests, such as those that require the devices to be brought into service and a call established entail simultaneous activity across multiple planes Each interoperability test provides 1) test description and applicability, 2) the minimum requirements and prerequisites listing required testing tools as required, 3) test purpose and scope, 4) testability requirements imposed on the O-RU and O-DU, 5) test methodology with procedural description as required, 6) the test requirement and expected test result. Failure conditions are not addressed. The following set of IOT cases are defined in the present document. M-Plane IOT Test 1. Startup Installation: O-DU and O-RU getting in Service 2. Functional test of NES technique Deep-hibernate S-Plane IOT Tests 1. Functional test of O-DU + O-RU using ITU-T G.8275.1 profile (LLS-C1) 2. Functional test of O-DU + bridged network + O-RU using ITU-T G.8275.1 profile (LLS-C2) 3. Functional test of O-DU + bridged network + O-RU using ITU-T G.8275.1 profile (LLS-C3) 4. Performance test of O-DU + Two O-RUs using ITU-T G.8275.1 profile (LLS-C1) 5. Performance test of O-DU + bridged network + Two O-RUs using ITU-T G.8275.1 profile (LLS-C2) 6. Performance test of O-DU + bridged network + Two O-RUs using ITU-T G.8275.1 profile (LLS-C3) C/U-Plane IOT Tests 1. Radio Layer 3 C-Plane establishment and Initial Radio U-Plane data transfer 2. Radio U-Plane downlink data transfer (Downlink throughput performance) 3. Radio U-Plane uplink data transfer (Uplink throughput performance) C/U-Plane Delay Management Test 1. Test with minimum fronthaul latency 2. Test with maximum fronthaul latency 3. Test with a fronthaul latency value between maximum and minimum 4. Test larger fronthaul latency then supported

## 5.5 Reporting and validation of used capabilities
Since the interoperability tests are designed to be non-intrusive in nature, the tests may pass without invoking a certain capability supported by O-RU and O-DU, even if the capability is indicated by the PTC as test entry criterion. See Table A.1-1 for terminology of IOT test entry requirements. It is possible that a subset of capabilities might not be exercised during a test, and it may not be clear which capability was exercised or not during a test. For C/U-plane IOT tests, the utilization of “to be reported” capabilities associated with each PTC shall be reported. This aids in understanding which capabilities of the DUT were positively tested as part of the IOT tests. Furthermore, the utilization of “to be validated” capabilities shall be validated in C/U-plane IOT tests. “To be reported” capabilities and “to be validated” capabilities are described for each C/U-plane IOT test and for some PTCs in Annex A. If the utilization of a “to be validated” capability cannot be confirmed, then the inconclusive outcome of the test shall be documented as a “fail”. The utilization of a “to be reported” capability does not change test outcome, ie, the result of a C/U-plane test is a “pass” if the performance acceptance criteria are met, even if the utilization of one or more “to be reported” capabilities are not confirmed. How to validate a capability is outside the scope of the present document. Examples of validation methods include analysing FH protocol logs, DUT using the capability by design or demonstrated by DUT test logs, inferring from the support declaration and enablement via M-plane, etc.
> NOTE: In the present document, “to be reported” capabilities and “to be validated” capabilities are listed only
for NR TDD DMRS-BF IOT profiles and C/U-plane IOT tests.

# 6 M-Plane IOT Test

## 6.1 Overview
The M-Plane IOT test for hierarchical mode is described in Section 6.1 and the respective test for hybrid mode is described in Section 6.2. Two IOT profiles are defined for each mode, the first addressing IPv4 with SSH and the second addressing IPv6 with a choice of SSH or TLS. In this version of the specification NMS operation in hybrid mode is limited to read-only operation. The M-plane IOT tests focusing on NES techniques are described in clause 6.4.

## 6.2 Start-up in hierarchical mode

### 6.2.1 Test Description and Applicability
This test case is MANDATORY. The DUT is composed of single O-DU and single O-RU. Test scenario refers to Chapter 6 “Start-up” in hierarchical architecture for M-Plane [3].

### 6.2.2 Minimum Requirements (Prerequisites)
Single O-DU (DUT1(O-DU)) and a single O-RU (DUT1(O-RU)) 1. Are connected through the O-RAN FH Assumptions which are required for this test scenario 1. DHCP server is configured for test purposes (either function served by O-DU or external DHCP server with O- DU or router as relay – that should have no impact on test scenario). In case of external DHCP server, Configuration of DHCP server and DHCP procedures are excluded from validation of IOT. 2. IPv4 and IPv6 are conditional mandatory from v07 of [3] and either IPv4 or IPv6 transport connection for M- Plane is used in this test. 3. A combination of VLAN identity and MAC address is only used for C/U- Plane connectivity. 4. Network between O-DU and O-RU allows for connectivity between actors. 5. O-RU has account configured with sudo access privilege. O-DU knows credentials of sudo account available at O-RU. 6. Appropriate software file for O-RU is pre-installed in O-RU and corresponding manifest.xml is located in O- DU. No software upgrade is required during startup test sequence of O-RU for this IOT test case. Testing tools which are required for this test scenario
- FH Protocol Analyzer monitoring traffic between O-DU and O-RU is used for validation of M-Plane
procedural flows and contents of messages prior to the establishment of the SSH/TLS connection for M-Plane and when certain procedures do not use encryption (eg, loopback messages and responses of IEEE 802.1Q).

### 6.2.3 Test Purpose and Scope
Purpose of this test is to validate the startup sequence of O-RU and the interface to DHCP server and NETCONF client in O-DU for the start-up scenario. The detailed steps outlined in this test case are for informational purposes and can be useful for troubleshooting purposes in the event that the test case fails. Procedures which are not encrypted can be observed with the FH Protocol Analyzer for validation of the test progress. Notwithstanding this being an M-Plane test, correct evaluation of the success of the M-Plane operation requires also that the fronthaul C-Plane and U-Plane also be operational, at least in the DL direction.

### 6.2.4 Testability requirements imposed on O-RU and O-DU
The appropriate software runs on the O-RU and O-DU for the test purpose.

### 6.2.5 Methodology and Initial Conditions
1. There is physical connectivity between O-RU and O-DU 2. O-DU is powered up and in service or running 3. DHCP server is connected and available 4. O-RU is powered up for this start-up test scenario 5. The credential information (per the used M-Plane IOT profile) is commonly pre-installed in O-DU and O-RU as one of test assumptions in 6.2.2.

### 6.2.6 Procedure: M-Plane start up test

#### 6.2.6.1 Step: Transport layer initialization
1. Depending on initial condition – either power-on to O-RU or physical network connection is enabled between O-RU and O-DU. 2. FH Protocol Analyzer observation: DHCP Discovery coming from O-RU’s MAC address Note: message is sent as part of VLAN scan procedure, hence it can be in serial sequence “VID after VID with timer in between” or in parallel sequence “burst to subset of VIDs, timer, another burst to different subset of VIDs”. FH Protocol Analyzer confirms that the O-RU includes an appropriate option in the DHCP DISCOVER per the used IOT profile. 3. FH Protocol Analyzer observation: VLAN scan continues until response from DHCP server is received. 4. FH Protocol Analyzer observation: O-RU continues DHCP procedure using only the VID on which response from DHCP server has been received. 5. FH Protocol Analyzer observation: DHCP procedure is finished by DHCP Acknowledgement message sent towards O-RU. As a result of DHCP procedure, O-RU obtains its own IP details plus IP per the used IOT profile of corresponding NETCONF Client in O-DU.

#### 6.2.6.2 Step: RU calls home to NETCONF client (TCP connection establishment)
1. FH Protocol Analyzer observes Call Home – a TCP session establishment initiated by O-RU towards O-DU per the used IOT profile

#### 6.2.6.3 Step: SSH/TLS Secure connection establishment
1. SSH session/TLS connection establishment initiated by O-DU towards O-RU.

#### 6.2.6.4 Step: NETCONF Capability discovery
1. NETCONF Hello message sent by O-RU towards O-DU. The message exposes capability of ietf-yang-library 2. NETCONF Hello message sent by O-DU towards O-RU 3. <rpc><get> message sent by O-DU to O-RU. The <rpc><get> has < yang-library xlsnm = “urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-yang-library”> subtree filter imposed 4. <rpc><reply> message sent by O-RU to O-DU. The message contains content of leaf “yang-library” of ietf- yang-library.yang module

#### 6.2.6.5 Step: Optional provisioning of new management accounts
Note: this step is intentionally omitted as pre-provisioned O-RU is expected for IOT (meaning: no need to perform optional step and configure supplementary management accounts).

#### 6.2.6.6 Step: Initial process of NETCONF Subscribe for each stream
1. NETCONF “create-subscription” RPC message(s) sent by O-DU towards O-RU. Number of NETCONF subscriptions is up to O-DU. Note: O-DU can subscribe itself to default event stream or to specific streams of events. In case no subscription to default stream is performed, then O-DU shall subscribe itself at least to event streams “supervision- notification” and “alarm-notif”. Subscription to other streams is optional, however not prohibited. 2. NETCONF “create-subscription” RPC Reply messages sent by O-RU for each RPC message

#### 6.2.6.7 Step: Supervision of NETCONF connection
1. Periodic sequence of NETCONF messages: a. supervision-notification sent by O-RU towards O-DU b. RPC supervision-watchdog-reset sent by O-DU towards O-RU c. RPC reply sent by O-RU towards O-DU Note: in above sequence following timers shall be respected: “supervision-notification-interval”, “guard-timer- overhead” sent as parameters in RPC supervision-watchdog-reset (O-DU -> O-RU) and “next-update-at” sent as parameter in RPC reply (O-RU -> O-DU).

#### 6.2.6.8 Step: Retrieval of O-RU information and Additional configuration
1. O-DU sends <rpc><get><filter=“subtree”> to get each yang module listed in ietf-yang-library.yang in O-RU, for example o ietf-hardware augmented by o-ran-hardware o ietf-interface augmented by o-ran-interfaces o o-ran-operations o o-ran-transceiver o o-ran-sync o o-ran-mplane-int o o-ran-lbm o o-ran-performance-management o o-ran-delay-management o o-ran-module-cap o o-ran-alarm-id o o-ran-fan o o-ran-supervision o o-ran-user mgmt 2. O-RU responds with <rpc-reply><data> for each yang module per <rpc><get> 3. O-DU sends <rpc><edit-config> to each configurable yang module for additional configuration to O-RU whenever it is necessary 4. O-RU responds with <rpc-reply><ok/> Note: The configurable yang modules are o-ran-sync, o-ran-lbm, o-ran-operations and others (up to O-DU implementation) except o-ran-uplane-conf, o-ran-processing-element, ietf-interface augmented by o-ran- interfaces. Additional configuration of step 3 and 4 can be examined between Chapters 6.2.6.9 and 6.2.6.10.

#### 6.2.6.9 Step: Software management
1. O-DU sends <rpc><get><filter="subtree"> to get o-ran-software-management.yang 2. O-RU responds with <rpc-reply><data> for <software-inventory>< software-slot>. At least 2 slots are contained in software-inventory Note: software update is not applied as the pre-condition that appropriate software file for O-RU is pre- installed in O-RU and corresponding manifest.xml is located in O-DU.

#### 6.2.6.10 Step: C/U-Plane transport connectivity check between O-DU and O-RU
1. O-DU configures by <rpc><edit-config> vlan-id for the usage of C/U-Plane in ietf-interface augmented by o- ran-interfaces to O-RU. O-RU responds with <rpc-reply><ok/> 2. O-DU sends loopback message to O-RU with MAC address and vlan-id periodically. The O-RU MAC address and vlan-id used in LBM is same as the one that set in ietf-interface augmented by o-ran-interfaces. 3. O-RU sends loopback response to O-DU per received loopback message respectively

#### 6.2.6.11 Step: U-Plane configuration between O-DU and O-RU
1. O-DU sends <rpc><get><user-plane-configuration> to determine the presence of following instances: multiple static-low-level-[tr]x-endpoints, multiple [tr]x-arrays and the relations between them. O-RU replies <rpc- reply><data> including key information on number of endpoints, band number, number of arrays and polarization. 2. O-DU sends <rpc><edit-config> to create low-level-[tr]x-endpoints, with the same name as static-low-level- [tr]x-endpoints. The NETCONF Client is responsible for assigning unique values to the "eaxc-id" addresses of all low-level-rx-endpoint elements and low-level-tx-endpoint elements, within the O-RU when operating in the same direction (Tx or Rx), even when these operate across different named interfaces of the O-RU. Number of instances of low-level-[tr]x-endpoints depend on contents of selected test profile, eg, for number of CCs. It may be less than number of instances of static-low-level-[tr]x-endpoints. O-RU replies <rpc-reply><ok/></rpc- reply>. 3. O-DU sends <rpc><edit-config> to create [tr]x-array-carriers. Number of created instances of [tr]x-array- carriers is equivalent to number of CCs times number of arrays, where number of CCs is defined by operator. Appropriate values are configured to absolute-frequency-center, channel-bandwidth, gain, and so on. In provided configuration the value of leaf “active” is set as ‘INACTIVE’ (or leaf is omitted in configuration and O-RU uses its default value 'INACTIVE') for all just created [tr]x-array-carriers. O-RU replies <rpc- reply><ok/></rpc-reply>. 4. O-DU sends <rpc><edit-config> to create processing-elements related to interfaces offering access to desired endpoints. The key information such as MAC address is configured according to selected transport flow, eg, o- ru-mac-address, o-du-mac-address and vlan-id for C/U-Plane in case of Ethernet flow. O-RU replies <rpc- reply><ok/></rpc-reply>. 5. O-DU sends <rpc><edit-config> to create low-level-[tr]x-link(s) to make relationship between low-level-[tr]x- endpoint(s), [tr]x-array-carriers and processing elements belonging to transport. The number of instance(s) for low-level-[tr]x-links is equivalent to that of instance(s) of low-level-[tr]x-endpoints.

#### 6.2.6.12 Step: Fault Management activation
1. O-DU sends <rpc><get><filter=“subtree”> to get o-ran-fm.yang 2. O-RU responds with <rpc-reply><data> for <active-alarm-list><active-alarms> Note: subscription to NETCONF default event stream fulfils the condition to signal notification alarm-notif when O-RU detects any alarm.

#### 6.2.6.13 Step: Performance measurement activation (if required at start-up timing)
Note: Step for Retrieval of O-RU information may cover the configuration of o-ran-performance-management.yang if it is required at start-up installation timing.

#### 6.2.6.14 Step: Retrieval of O-RU state, including synchronization information, from O-RU
If O-DU already knows at the moment this step is going to be performed (eg, from notification “synchronization-state- change”), that “sync-state” of O-RU is ‘LOCKED’, O-DU may skip this step. S-Plane has to be operational. 1. O-DU sends <rpc><get><sync> to O-RU 2. S-Plane in O-RU has been locked, sends <rpc-reply><data> <sync-status><sync-state> LOCKED

#### 6.2.6.15 Step: Configuring the O-RU operational parameters: carrier activation
S-Plane has to be operational (sync-state != FREERUN, preferable sync-state = LOCKED) prior to running this step 1. O-DU sends <rpc><edit-config> to perform activation by setting the value of the parameter “active” at [tr]x- array-carriers to “ACTIVE”. O-RU sends <rpc-reply><ok/> 2. O-RU sends notification [tr]x-array-carriers-state-change that indicates all [tr]x-array-carriers’ names with “state” = “READY” Note: C/U-Plane service is available at this step.

### 6.2.7 Test Requirement (expected result)
Observe that both the O-DU and O-RU get in service successfully by monitoring correct transmission of synchronization signals and broadcast channel (ie, PSS/SSS and PBCH for LTE and SSB for NR). Record downlink carrier frequency (EARFCN for LTE as specified in 3GPP TS 36.104 [12] and GSCN/NR-ARFCN for NR as specified in 3GPP TS 38.104 [13]), cell (PCI for LTE and for NR as specified in 3GPP TS 36.211 [14] and TS 38.211 [15], respectively) and system information (MIB for LTE and NR as specified in 3GPP TS 36.331 [16] and TS 38.331 [17], respectively). In case that beam sweeping is applied to SSB, system information should be recorded for each of the SSB indices detected. The parameter values for downlink carrier frequency, cell, system information and SSB indices are part of the radio test setup configuration. This test is considered successful if the recorded measurements values match up with the values which are used for the radio test setup configuration.

### 6.2.8 Test Report (Failure)
If the test case fails, vendor specific methods will be relied on to assist with troubleshooting the root cause(s) which led to the failure. The steps outlined in this test case can be used to guide the troubleshooting process.

## 6.3 Start-up in hybrid mode

### 6.3.1 Test Description and Applicability
This test case is conditional MANDATORY. The condition is, the O-DU supports hybrid M-Plane deployment. The DUT is composed of single O-DU, a single O-RU and a single NMS. Test scenario refers to Chapter 5.1.2 “M-Plane Architectural Model” and Chapter 6 “Start-up” in hybrid architecture for M-Plane [3]. As per M-Plane Chapter 5.1.2, all compliant O-RUs shall be able to support both hierarchical and hybrid deployment. If the O-DU supports hybrid M-Plane deployment, the testing of hybrid use case shall therefore include being able to demonstrate that an O-RU is able to support simultaneous NETCONF sessions to the O-DU and NMS. In order to ensure limited impacts to the baseline hierarchical O-DU to NMS configuration management tasks, in this test the second NETCONF client associated with “nms” user privileges is limited to demonstrating that it is able to retrieve the configuration and operational state from an O-RU which has been configured by an O-DU.

### 6.3.2 Minimum Requirements (Prerequisites)
Single O-DU (DUT1(O-DU)), a single O-RU (DUT1(O-RU)) and a single NMS (DUT1(NMS). 1. Are connected through the O-RAN FH Assumptions which are required for this test scenario 1. DHCP server is configured for test purposes (either function served by O-DU or external DHCP server with O- DU or router as relay – that should have no impact on test scenario). In case of external DHCP server - Configuration of DHCP server and DHCP procedures are excluded from validation of IOT. 2. IPv4 and IPv6 are conditional mandatory from v07 of [3] and either IPv4 or IPv6 transport connection for M- Plane is used in this test. 3. A combination of VLAN identity and MAC address is used for C/U- Plane connectivity. 4. A common VLAN is used for M-Plane connectivity between the O-RU and O-DU and between the O-RU and the NMS. 5. Network between O-DU and O-RU and between NMS and O-RU allows for connectivity between actors. 6. An account user-name has been configured for group “nms” access control privileges in a previous O-DU/O- RU testing step as specified in sub-section 6.2.6.5. 7. O-RU has two accounts configured. One account has sudo access privilege with credentials used by the O-DU. The other account has nms access privilege and the credentials used by the NMS. 8. Appropriate software file for O-RU is pre-installed in O-RU and corresponding manifest.xml is located in O- DU. No software upgrade is required during startup test sequence of O-RU for this IOT test case. 9. An NMS is configured for supporting NETCONF Call Home functionality. Testing tools which are required for this test scenario
- FH Protocol Analyzer monitoring traffic between O-DU and O-RU and between NMS and O-RU is used for
validation of M-Plane procedural flows and contents of messages prior to the establishment of the SSH connection for M-Plane and when certain procedures do not use encryption (eg, loopback messages and responses of IEEE 802.1Q).

### 6.3.3 Test Purpose and Scope
Purpose of this test is to validate the startup sequence of O-RU and the interface to DHCP server and NETCONF clients in the O-DU and NMS for the start-up scenario. As described in [3], all O-RUs supporting the M-Plane specification shall support multiple NETCONF sessions, and hence all compliant O-RUs shall be able to support both hierarchical and hybrid deployment. The detailed steps outlined in this test case are for informational purposes and can be useful for troubleshooting purposes in the event that the test case fails. Procedures which are not encrypted can be observed with the FH Protocol Analyzer for validation of the test progress. Notwithstanding this being an M-Plane test, correct evaluation of the success of the M-Plane operation requires also that the fronthaul C-Plane and U-Plane also be operational, at least in the DL direction.

### 6.3.4 Testability requirements imposed on O-RU, O-DU and NMS
The appropriate software runs on the O-RU, O-DU and NMS for the test purpose.

### 6.3.5 Methodology and Initial Conditions
1. There is physical and or logical connectivity between O-RU and O-DU and between the O-RU and NMS 2. O-DU and NMS are powered up and in service or running 3. DHCP server is connected and available 4. O-RU is powered up for this start-up test scenario 5. The credential information (per the used M-Plane IOT profile) is configured on the O-RU according to one of test assumptions listed in in 6.3.2.

### 6.3.6 Procedure: M-Plane start up test

#### 6.3.6.1 Step: Transport layer initialization
1. Depending on initial condition – either power-on to O-RU or physical or logical network connection is enabled between O-RU and O-DU/NMS. 2. FH Protocol Analyzer observation: DHCP Discovery coming from O-RU’s MAC address Note: message is sent as part of VLAN scan procedure, hence it can be in serial sequence “VID after VID with timer in between” or in parallel sequence “burst to subset of VIDs, timer, another burst to different subset of VIDs”. FH Protocol Analyzer confirms that the O-RU includes an appropriate in the DHCP DISCOVER per the used IOT profile. 3. FH Protocol Analyzer observation: VLAN scan continues until response from DHCP server is received. 4. FH Protocol Analyzer observation: O-RU continues DHCP procedure using only the VID on which response from DHCP server has been received. 5. FH Protocol Analyzer observation: DHCP procedure is finished by DHCP Acknowledgement message sent towards O-RU. As a result of DHCP procedure, O-RU obtains its own IP details plus IP of corresponding NETCONF Clients in O-DU and in NMS per used IOT profile.

#### 6.3.6.2 Step: RU calls home to discovered NETCONF client (TCP connection
establishment) 1. FH Protocol Analyzer observes Call Home – a TCP session establishment initiated by O-RU towards O-DU per used IOT profile 2. FH Protocol Analyzer observes Call Home – a TCP session establishment initiated by O-RU towards NMS per used IOT profile

#### 6.3.6.3 Step: SSH/TLS Secure connection establishment
1. SSH session/TLS connection establishment initiated by O-DU towards O-RU using sudo account privilege. 2. SSH session/TLS connection establishment initiated by NMS towards O-RU using nms account privilege.

#### 6.3.6.4 Step: NETCONF Capability discovery
1. NETCONF Hello message sent by O-RU towards NETCONF clients (O-DU and NMS). The message exposes capability of ietf-yang-library 2. NETCONF Hello message sent by NETCONF clients (O-DU and NMS) towards O-RU. 3. <rpc><get> message sent by NETCONF clients (O-DU and NMS) to O-RU. The <rpc><get> has <yang-library xlsnm = “urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-yang-library”> subtree filter imposed 4. <rpc><reply> message sent by O-RU to NETCONF Clients (O-DU and NMS). The message contains content of leaf “yang-library” of ietf-yang-library.yang module

#### 6.3.6.5 Step: Optional provisioning of new management accounts
Note: this step is intentionally omitted as pre-provisioned O-RU is expected for IOT (meaning: no need to perform optional step and configure supplementary management accounts).

#### 6.3.6.6 Step: Initial process of NETCONF Subscribe for each stream
1. NETCONF “create-subscription” RPC message(s) sent by O-DU towards O-RU. Number of NETCONF subscriptions is up to O-DU. Note: O-DU can subscribe itself to default event stream or to specific streams of events. In case no subscription to default stream is performed, then O-DU shall subscribe itself at least to event streams “supervision- notification” and “alarm-notif”. Subscription to other streams is optional, however not prohibited. 2. NETCONF “create-subscription” RPC Reply messages sent by O-RU for each RPC message Note: subsequent steps use the NMS to retrieve the configuration and operational state of the O-RU and are performed after step 6.2.6.7 through 6.2.6.15 that complete O-RU start-up.

#### 6.3.6.7 Step: NMS retrieval of O-RU information and Additional configuration
1. NMS sends <rpc><get><filter=“subtree”> to get each yang module listed in ietf-yang-library.yang in O-RU, with the exception of o-ran-usermgmt and o-ran-supervision, for example ietf-hardware augmented by o-ran-hardware ietf-interface augmented by o-ran-interfaces o-ran-operations o-ran-transceiver o-ran-sync o-ran-mplane-int o-ran-lbm o-ran-performance-management o-ran-delay-management o-ran-module-cap o-ran-uplane-conf o-ran-alarm-id o-ran-fan 2. O-RU responds with <rpc-reply><data> for each yang module per <rpc><get>

### 6.3.7 Test Requirement (expected result)
Observe that the O-RU calls home to both the O-DU and NMS and then is able to establish simultaneous NETCONF sessions between the O-RU and O-DU and between the O-RU and NMS. Observe that the NMS is able to retrieve configuration and operational state from models to which it does have NACM read privileges.

### 6.3.8 Test Report (Failure)
If the test case fails, vendor specific methods will be relied on to assist with troubleshooting the root cause(s) which led to the failure. The steps outlined in this test case can be used to guide the troubleshooting process.

### 6.3.9 Supplementary test: NETCONF Access Control (Failure)
This is a supplementary test to verify correct handling of NMS read attempt with incorrect privilege per 6.2.6.8. 1. The NETCONF client in the NMS attempts to read user accounts provisioned on the O-RU. The NMS sends <rpc><get><filter=“subtree”> to get the configuration and operational state for the o-ran-usermgmt yang module. 2. O-RU responds with <rpc-error> response with “access-denied”. Expected result is to that an O-RU will deny access to an NMS that tries to read configuration and/or operational state from models to which it does not have NACM privileges. If the test case fails, that is access is granted, vendor specific methods will be relied on to assist with troubleshooting the root cause(s) which led to the failure.

## 6.4 Network Energy Saving

### 6.4.1 Overview
This section describes system level tests that are used to validate NES functionality between O-DU and O-RU from different vendors connected using the O-RAN WG4 FH CUS-Plane interface specified in [2] and the O-RAN WG4 M- Plane interface specified in [3]. The M-Plane IOT test for NES technique Deep-hibernate is described in clause 6.4.2.

### 6.4.2 Deep-hibernate (Hierarchical-sudo)

#### 6.4.2.1 Test Description and Applicability
This test case is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. The condition is, both O-RU and O-DU supports Network Energy Saving technique Deep-hibernate. The DUT is composed of single O-DU and single O-RU Test scenario refers to Clause 20.5 “Deep-hibernate” in M-Plane specification [3]. This test is based on the Hierarchical-sudo M-plane IOT profile specified in clause A.2.5

#### 6.4.2.2 Minimum Requirements (Prerequisites)
Single O-DU (DUT1(O-DU)) and a single O-RU (DUT1(O-RU)) 1. Are connected through the O-RAN FH. Assumptions which are required for this test scenario, 1. C-Plane and M-Plane communication between O-DU and O-RU is properly set and active. 2. Energy saving policy with hibernate-time is available for configuring the O-DU, where hibernate-time is smaller than the max-hibernate-time-duration supported by the O-RU. If O-RU advertises min-hibernate-time-duration, hibernate-time has to be within the range of max-hibernate-time-duration and min-hibernate-time-duration supported by the O-RU. The energy saving policy will trigger the O-DU to issue a deep hibernate command based on the lack of user traffic imposed within the test. 3. Alternative to assumption #2, the O-DU supports the reception of an O1 command issued by the test equipment (test SMO) to explicitly force the O-DU to issue a deep hibernate command to the O-RU. Note: This test case does not require active UEs or CUS-Plane communication. Testing tools which can be useful for this test scenario particularly for validating that the DUTs are configured and operating correctly during the test, troubleshooting and detailed validation purposes,
- FH Protocol Analyzer monitoring traffic between O-DU and O-RU is used for validation of M-Plane
procedural flows and contents of messages.

#### 6.4.2.3 Test Purpose and Scope
The purpose of this test is to validate the Deep-hibernate technique.

#### 6.4.2.4 Testability requirements imposed on O-RU and O-DU
The appropriate software runs on the O-RU and O-DU for test purposes.

#### 6.4.2.5 Methodology and Initial Conditions
1. O-RU and O-DU are both in service, ie, M-Plane start-up procedure has been completed using M-Plane IOT profile #1 – hierarchical sudo. 2. The O-RU exposes its ability to support Deep-hibernate technique.

#### 6.4.2.6 Procedure
1. The O-DU is configured by an energy saving policy, eg, sent by an SMO/NMS. 2. The O-DU sends deep-hibernate command, with hibernate-time as defined in the energy saving policy. 3. The O-RU responds with a <rpc-reply> message indicating successful completion of requested procedure. 4. The O-DU waits for deep-hibernate-activated notification from O-RU and triggers close-session rpc command. 5. It is required to verify that M-Plane NETCONF session is disconnected. 6. The O-RU enters deep-hibernate mode. 7. Verify the O-RU restarts after the expiry of hibernate-time, NETCONF call home procedure is triggered.

#### 6.4.2.7 Test Requirement (expected result)
- Observe that O-DU receives deep-hibernate-activated notification from the O-RU.
- Observe M-Plane NETCONF session is disconnected following the deep-hibernate-activated notification.
- Observe that the O-RU restarts successfully and the NETCONF call home procedure is triggered after the
expiry of hibernate-time.

#### 6.4.2.8 Test Report (Failure)
- If the test case fails, vendor specific methods will be relied on to assist with troubleshooting the root cause(s)
which led to the failure.

# 7 S-Plane IOT Test

## 7.1 Overview
This Section describes system level tests that are used to validate both S-Plane functionality and S-Plane performance between O-DU and O-RU from different vendors connected using the O-RAN WG4 FH interface specified in [2] and the O-RAN WG4 M-Plane interface specified in [3]. S-Plane functionality is determined by retrieval of the O-DU and O-RU synchronization state using the M-Plane or NMS as appropriate, whereas, S-Plane performance is determined by over-the-air (OTA) measurements or conductive (ie, a cabled electrical connection to the DUT’s radio interface) measurements of O-RU synchronization signal. This Section provides a common high-level list of the items that are expected to be covered in order to validate interoperability with the relevant standard, both functional and performance aspects are addressed:
- The tests apply to both 4G(LTE) and 5G(NR) and are applicable to all O-RAN IOT profiles listed in Annex A
- The O-RAN WG4 CUS Specification [2] Section validated is §11.3.2
- SyncE Master test case is optional and only valid when the SyncE clock (eg, Implemented in the O-RU) takes
advantage of it. Therefore, the related SyncE Master test cases are optional
- Several test cases involve configuring the O-DU or O-RU
- M-Plane connection is established, meaning whole protocol stack ETH/IP/TCP/SSH/TLS is up and running,
Capabilities are exchanged between NETCONF Client and Server, Subscriptions to notifications are created o Several test cases involve the configuration and collection of status of T-BC. However, as this is not specified in the Management Plane Specification [3], the parts of the tests below that require such functionality are not addressed in the present document. o Further work needs to be done to align and refine the definition of the states in the O-RAN WG4 CUS Specification [2] and M-Plane [3] specifications for the next releases At least one of the synchronization options (LLS-C1, LLS-C2, LLS-C3 or LLS-C4), depending on the relevant O-RAN deployment as described in Clause 4.5, shall be tested for functionality and performance. The following bulleted notes apply specifically to S-Plane IOT functional tests in addition to the general notes above,
- Tests shall be done in the lab at constant temperature
- Test equipment is needed to generate a reference S-Plane signal
- For validation of synchronization information, use the FH M-Plane interface for the O-RU, and other interfaces
such as NMS for O-DU
- Retrieving sync-state of O-DU using the NMS is not addressed in the present document
- O-RU reports over M-Plane the degraded received clock-class and clock-accuracy as well as locked state;
details of how to do this are not addressed in the present document
- With the exception of lls-C1, that doesn't include any T-BC in the fronthaul link, the test configuration shall
use from 1 up to the maximum number of T-BCs specified for performance test, as set out in the performance test specific notes set out below, according to the preference of the tester The following bulleted notes apply specifically to S-Plane IOT performance tests in addition to the general notes above,
- All tests should be done in lab under constant and variable C/U-Plane profile. The variable C/U-Plane profile
(for example similar to the test case 13 shown in figure VI.11 of ITU-T G.8261 [10]) should be defined for this test
- A previous version of the present document (v 1.00) contained a requirement to perform the IOT performance
tests under variable temperature conditions. That requirement was removed, and instead replaced with the following text that was also used in the Conformance Test Specification [24]: The thermal profile is not defined. The tests are defined to be run at a constant temperature, but the thermal profile choice and range is left as a decision for the vendor
- Use the maximum number of T-BC devices as shown in O-RAN WG4 CUS Specification [2] in Annex H
Note: Annex H includes example deployment cases that capture the influence of factors including, target end- to-end timing error requirement, clock type used in the network, and characteristics of the O-RU clock. Additional cases including, addressing O-RUs with different levels of clock performance, and different noise accumulation models etc are not addressed in the present document
- The acceptance criterion for the tests is to satisfy the 3GPP OTA TAE limits specified in 3GPP TS 36.141 [18]
for 4G(LTE) and 38.141-2 [19] for 5G(NR), and summarized in eCPRI [11] and ITU-T G.8271 [7]. The particular conditions applicable to each test are set out in the relevant sections below To perform the IOT S-Pane tests, following test set ups (Figure 7.1-1, 7.1-2 and 7.1-3) are proposed. The selection of the test setup is dependent on the configuration mode lls-C1, lls-C2, or lls-C3. This version of the document does not cover lls-C4:
- Each diagram covers both functional test and performance test of the respective synchronization configuration
mode. The main difference between the setups for functional and performance test is the need for a measurement equipment at the radio interface for performance test as indicated in previous paragraphs.
- Each setup gives the option to select different types of S-Plane signals for the input of the O-DU. The selection
of the option depends on the capability of the O-DU and operator’s synchronization architecture. In lls-C3 mode, the O-DU has the option of selecting a master through its fronthaul interface or directly connecting to a T-GM.
- T-GM via a midhaul network (for ls-C1 or lls-C2) or a fronthaul network (for lls-C3) over an Ethernet
interface with PTP and SyncE (if applicable)
- T-GM over an Ethernet interface with PTP and SyncE (if applicable)
- PRTC: 1pps according to ITU-T G.703, 10MHz, and ToD according to G.8271 Annex A or any other
proprietary ToD decoding specification supported by the O-DU
- GNSS: RF input directly from an antenna used for GNSS signal reception
- The measurement equipment has to be synchronized with the DUT, thus the need for a line arriving at the
measurement equipment.
- The arrows in these diagrams represent the direction of S-Plane messages (from master to subordinate), or
from any source synchronization signal to the receiver. 7.2 Functional test of O-DU + O-RU using ITU-T G.8275.1 profile (LLS-C1)

### 7.2.1 Test Description and Applicability
This test case is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU and O-DU declare support of LLS-C1 synchronization option (see Clause 4.4). This test validates that O-RU is synchronizing from an O-DU that incorporates a PTP grand master and SyncE Master with ITU-T G.8275.1 [5] profile and is traceable to a PRTC. This test involves one O-DU and one O-RU.

### 7.2.2 Minimum Requirements (Prerequisites)
1. O-RU is connected to O-DU via direct fiber O-RAN links. 2. The O-DU is connected to a PRTC traceable time source, directly (GNSS Receiver either embedded or connected to the O-DU) or via PTP, as described in Conformance Test Specification [24].

### 7.2.3 Purpose and Scope
The O-RU is synchronizing from the O-DU with the ITU-T G.8275.1 [5] profile. This test case validates the correct synchronization status of the O-RU.

### 7.2.4 Testability Requirements imposed on O-RU and O-DU
Requirements for M-Plane: is properly operating (as specified in 6.2). Synchronization requirement: O-DU is connected to a local or remote PRTC.

### 7.2.5 Test Methodology
These tests use the O-RAN M-Plane and O-DU NMS features. The O-DU acts as a PTP master compliant with the ITU-T G.8275.1 [5] profile. Three conditions shall be covered:
- startup
- nominal
- degraded

#### 7.2.5.1 Procedure: Startup conditions
1. Not yet configured. External frequency and time source are available to the O-DU and deliver nominal status O-DU is not yet configured to select the time source and align its frequency and time to it O-DU not yet configured to act as PTP master on the FH ports 2. Configured. O-DU is configured to align to the selected frequency and time source 3. Until disciplining Until O-DU disciplining of the frequency and time to the selected source has completed, Startup conditions persists The O-RUs are configured to synchronize from PTP in ITU-T G.8275.1 [5] profile and report their status

#### 7.2.5.2 Procedure: Nominal conditions
1. O-DU is configured to start acting as a PTP master compliant with the ITU-T G.8275.1 [5] profile on selected FH ports. 2. O-DU acts as a PTP grand master or as a boundary clock with ports towards the FH interface in Master state, compliant with the ITU-T G.8275.1 [5] profile advertising “nominal” status. 3. O-DU reports status, acting as PTP master clock towards the FH interface.

#### 7.2.5.3 Procedure: Degraded conditions
1. O-DU is configured to enter HOLDOVER based on local oscillator frequency. 2. O-DU acts as configured clock, with PTP ports in master state, compliant to ITU-T G.8275.1 profile advertising HOLDOVER status with degraded clockClass and clockAccuracy as specified by ITU-T G.8275.1 [5]. 3. O-DU is configured to exit HOLDOVER and resumes normal frequency and phase disciplining using the source. 4. O-DU acts as configured clock, with PTP ports towards the FH interface in master state compliant to ITU-T G.8275.1 [5] in “nominal” status.

### 7.2.6 Test Requirements (expected results)

#### 7.2.6.1 Startup conditions
The acceptance criterion is that the following status is observed for steps 1 to 3 (7.2.5.1 above):
- the FREERUN sync-state of the O-RU using the M-Plane
- the UNLOCKED PTP lock-state of the O-RU using the M-Plane
- the UNLOCKED SyncE lock-state of the O-RU using the M-Plane (optional)
- the FREERUN sync-state of the O-DU using the NMS

#### 7.2.6.2 Nominal conditions
The acceptance criterion is that the following status is observed for steps 1 to 3 (7.2.5.2 above):
- the LOCKED sync-state of the O-DU using the NMS
- the received PTP clockClass level of the O-RU using the M-Plane
- the received SyncE SSM level of the O-RU using the M-Plane (optional)
- the LOCKED sync-state of the O-RU using the M-Plane
- the LOCKED PTP lock-state and PARENT PTP state of the O-RU using the M-Plane
- the LOCKED SyncE lock-state and OK or PARENT SyncE state of the O-RU using the M-Plane (optional)

#### 7.2.6.3 Degraded conditions
The acceptance criterion is that the following status is observed for all steps 1 to 2 (7.2.5.3 above) (for steps 3 and 4, same criterion as “Nominal conditions” apply):
- the HOLDOVER sync-state of the O-DU using the NMS
- the received PTP clockClass level of the O-RU using the M-Plane
- the received SyncE SSM level of the O-RU using the M-Plane (optional). Note that if SyncE state is NOK, it is
also permitted that the local default SSM level is reported using the M-Plane.
- the sync-state of the O-RU using the M-Plane is LOCKED if the received clockClass (or optional SSM QL)
value matches the configured list of accepted values, otherwise HOLDOVER or FREERUN
- the PTP lock-state of the O-RU using the M-Plane is LOCKED,
and the PTP state of the O-RU using the M-Plane is PARENT if the received clockClass matches the configured list of accepted values, otherwise NOK.
- the SyncE lock-state (optional) of the O-RU using the M-Plane is LOCKED or OK,
and the SyncE state of the O-RU using the M-Plane is PARENT or OK if the received SSM matches the configured list of accepted values, otherwise NOK. Note: If the NETCONF client triggers a reset procedure of the O-RU by FREERUN of the sync-state at these degraded conditions, the status observation using M-plane is not available for NETCONF client. It is observed that the alarm- notification is sent from the O-RU using M-Plane and the regular start-up procedures is performed.

## 7.3 Functional test of O-DU + bridged network + O-RU using ITU-T
G.8275.1 profile (LLS-C2)

### 7.3.1 Test Description and Applicability
This test case is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU and O-DU declare support of LLS-C2 synchronization option (see Clause 4.5). This test validates that O-RU is synchronizing from an O-DU via a chain of T-BC using ITU-T G.8275.1 [5] profile. This test involves one O-DU, one O-RU and multiple T-BCs. The configuration, management, and retrieval of status of the T-BC are not addressed in the present document.

### 7.3.2 Minimum Requirements (Prerequisites)
1. O-RU is connected to O-DU via a chain of T-BCs. 2. The T-BCs are class B. The subordinate port of the first T-BC is connected to O-DU. The master clock of the last T-BC is connected to the O-RU. 3. The O-DU is connected to a PRTC traceable time source, directly (GNSS Receiver connected to the O-DU) or via PTP.

### 7.3.3 Purpose and Scope
The O-RU is synchronizing from the O-DU with the ITU-T G.8275.1 [5] profile over a bridged network that can deploy several T-BCs. This test case validates the correct synchronization status of the O-RU.

### 7.3.4 Testability Requirements imposed on O-RU and O-DU
Requirements for M-Plane: is properly operating (as specified in 6.2). Synchronization requirement: O-DU is connected to a local PRTC/source traceable to PRTC.

### 7.3.5 Test Methodology
These tests use the O-RAN M-Plane and O-DU NMS features. Three conditions shall be covered:
- startup
- nominal
- degraded

#### 7.3.5.1 Procedure: Startup conditions
1. Not yet configured. External frequency and time source are available to the O-DU and deliver nominal status. O-DU is not yet configured to select the time source and align its frequency and time to it. O-DU not yet configured to act as PTP master on the FH ports. 2. Configured. O-DU is configured to align to the selected frequency and time source. 3. Until disciplining Until O-DU disciplining of the frequency and time to the selected source has completed, Startup conditions persists. The O-RUs are configured to synchronize from PTP in ITU-T G.8275.1 [5] profile and report their status.

#### 7.3.5.2 Procedure: Nominal conditions
1. O-DU is configured to start acting as a PTP master compliant with the ITU-T G.8275.1 [5] profile on selected FH ports. 2. O-DU acts as a PTP grand master or as a boundary clock with ports towards the FH interface in Master state, compliant with the ITU-T G.8275.1 [5] profile advertising “nominal” status. 3. O-DU reports status, acting as PTP master clock towards the FH interface.

#### 7.3.5.3 Procedure: Degraded conditions
1. O-DU is configured to enter HOLDOVER based on local oscillator frequency. 2. O-DU acts as configured clock, with PTP ports in master state, compliant to ITU-T G.8275.1 profile advertising HOLDOVER status with degraded clockClass and clockAccuracy as specified by ITU-T G.8275.1 [5]. 3. O-DU is configured to exit HOLDOVER and resumes normal frequency and phase disciplining using the source. 4. O-DU acts as configured clock, with PTP ports towards the FH interface in master state compliant to ITU-T G.8275.1 [5] in “nominal” status.

### 7.3.6 Test Requirements (expected results)

#### 7.3.6.1 Startup conditions
The acceptance criterion is that the following status is observed for steps 1 to 3 (7.4.5.1 above):
- the FREERUN sync-state of the O-DU using the NMS
- the FREERUN sync-state of the O-RU using the M-Plane
- the UNLOCKED PTP lock-state of the O-RU using the M-Plane
- the UNLOCKED SyncE lock-state of the O-RU using the M-Plane (optional)

#### 7.3.6.2 Nominal conditions
The acceptance criterion is that the following status is observed for steps 1 to 3 (7.4.5.2 above):
- the LOCKED sync state of the O-DU using the NMS
- the LOCKED PTP lock-state of the O-DU using the NMS
- the “Master Enabled” SyncE status of the O-DU using the NMS (optional)
- the received PTP clockClass level of the O-RU using the M-Plane
- the received SyncE SSM level of the O-RU using the M-Plane (optional)
- the LOCKED sync-state of the O-RU using the M-Plane
- the LOCKED PTP lock-state and PARENT PTP state of the O-RU using the M-Plane
- the LOCKED SyncE lock-state and OK or PARENT SyncE state of the O-RU using the M-Plane (optional)
- the synchronization status of the deployed T-BC using the respective NMS

#### 7.3.6.3 Degraded conditions
The acceptance criterion is that the following status is observed for all steps 1 to 2 (7.4.5.3 above) (for steps 3 and 4, same acceptance criterion as “Nominal conditions” apply)
- the HOLDOVER sync-state of the O-DU using the NMS
- the received PTP clockClass level of the O-RU using the M-Plane
- the received SyncE SSM level of the O-RU using the M-Plane (optional). Note that if SyncE state is NOK, it is
also permitted that the local default SSM level is reported using the M-Plane.
- the sync-state of the O-RU using the M-Plane is LOCKED if the received clockClass (or optional SSM QL)
value matches the configured list of accepted values, otherwise HOLDOVER or FREERUN
- the PTP lock-state of the O-RU using the M-Plane is LOCKED,
and the PTP state of the O-RU using the M-Plane is PARENT or OK if the received SSM matches the configured list of accepted values, otherwise NOK
- the SyncE lock-state (optional) of the O-RU using the M-Plane is LOCKED or OK,
and the SyncE state of the O-RU using the M-Plane is PARENT or OK if the received SSM matches the configured list of accepted values, otherwise NOK Note: If the NETCONF client triggers a reset procedure of the O-RU by FREERUN of the sync-state at these degraded conditions, the status observation using M-plane is not available for NETCONF client. It is observed that the alarm- notification is sent from the O-RU using M-Plane and the regular start-up procedures is performed.

## 7.4 Functional test of O-DU + bridged network + O-RU using ITU-T
G.8275.1 profile (LLS-C3)

### 7.4.1 Test Description and Applicability
This test case is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU and O-DU declare support of LLS-C3 synchronization option (see Clause 4.5). This test validates that both the O-DU and O-RU are synchronizing from a common PRTC via a chain of T-BCs using ITU-T G.8275.1 [5] profile. This test involves one O-DU, one O-RU, a PRTC/T-GM and multiple T-BCs. The configuration, management, and retrieval of status of the T-BC are not addressed in the present document.

### 7.4.2 Minimum Requirements (Prerequisites)
1. Both O-RU and O-DU are connected to a common PRTC via a chain of T-BCs that are either directly connected to a PRTC/T-GM in the FH network or are connected to another T-BC that is traceable to a PRTC. 2. The T-BCs are class B. The subordinate port of the first T-BC is connected to a PRTC/T-GM. The O-DU and O-RU are connected to master ports of either the same T-BC or different ones.

### 7.4.3 Purpose and Scope
Both O-DU and O-RU are synchronized via a chain of T-BC from a common PRTC/T-GM located in the FH networks using ITU-T G.8275.1 [5] profile. This test case validates the correct synchronization status of the O-RU and O-DU.

### 7.4.4 Testability Requirements imposed on O-RU, O-DU and bridged
network Requirements for M-Plane: is properly operating (as specified in 6.2) Synchronization requirement: The T-BC is connected to a local PRTC or to another T-BC that is traceable to a PRTC.

### 7.4.5 Test Methodology
These tests use the O-RAN M-Plane and O-DU NMS features. Three conditions shall be covered:
- startup
- nominal
- degraded

#### 7.4.5.1 Procedure: Startup conditions
1. Not yet configured. External frequency and time source are available to the PRTC/T-GM and deliver nominal status. PRTC/T-GM is not yet configured to select the time source and align its frequency and time to it. PRTC/T-GM not yet configured to act as PTP master on the FH ports. 2. Configured. PRTC/T-GM is configured (eg, via proprietary) interface to align to the selected frequency and time source. 3. Until disciplining Until PRTC/T-GM disciplining of the frequency and time to the selected source has completed, Startup conditions persists. The O-RUs are configured to synchronize from PTP in ITU-T G.8275.1 [5] profile and report their status.

#### 7.4.5.2 Procedure: Nominal conditions
1. PRTC/T-GM is configured to start acting as a PTP master compliant with the ITU-T G.8275.1 [5] profile on selected FH ports. 2. PRTC/T-GM acts as a PTP grand master towards the FH interface in Master state, compliant with the ITU-T G.8275.1 [5] profile advertising “nominal” status. 3. PRTC/T-GM reports status, acting as PTP master clock towards the FH interface.

#### 7.4.5.3 Procedure: Degraded conditions
1. PRTC/T-GM is configured to enter HOLDOVER based on local oscillator frequency. 2. PRTC/T-GM acts as configured clock, with PTP ports in master state, compliant to ITU-T G.8275.1 profile advertising HOLDOVER status with degraded clockClass and clockAccuracy as specified by ITU-T G.8275.1 [5]. 3. PRTC/T-GM is configured to exit HOLDOVER and resumes normal frequency and phase disciplining using the source. 4. PRTC/T-GM acts as configured clock, with PTP ports towards the FH interface in master state compliant to ITU-T G.8275.1 [5] in “nominal” status.

### 7.4.6 Test Requirements (expected results)

#### 7.4.6.1 Startup conditions
The validation is done by checking the correct synchronization state is observed for steps 1 to 3 (7.4.6.1 above):
- the FREERUN sync-state of the O-DU using the NMS
- the UNLOCKED PTP lock-state of the O-DU using the NMS
- the UNLOCKED SyncE lock-state of the O-DU using the NMS (optional)
- the FREERUN sync-state of the O-RU using the M-Plane
- the UNLOCKED PTP lock-state of the O-RU using the M-Plane
- the UNLOCKED SyncE lock-state of the O-RU using the M-Plane (optional)
- the synchronization status of the deployed T-BC using the respective NMS

#### 7.4.6.2 Nominal conditions
The validation is done by checking the correct synchronization state is observed for steps 1 to 3 (7.4.6.2 above):
- the LOCKED sync-state of the O-DU using the NMS
- the LOCKED PTP lock-state of the O-DU using the NMS
- the “Master Enabled” SyncE status of the O-DU using the NMS (optional)
- the received PTP clockClass level of the O-RU using the M-Plane
- the received SyncE SSM level of the O-RU using the M-Plane (optional).
- the LOCKED sync-state of the O-RU using the M-Plane
- the LOCKED PTP lock-state and PARENT PTP state of the O-RU using the M-Plane
- the LOCKED SyncE lock-state and OK or PARENT SyncE state of the O-RU using the M-Plane (optional)
- the synchronization status of the deployed T-BC using the respective NMS

#### 7.4.6.3 Degraded conditions
The validation is done by checking the correct synchronization state is observed for all steps 1 to 2 (7.4.5.3 above) (for steps 3 and 4, same acceptance criterion as “Nominal conditions” apply):
- the HOLDOVER sync-state of the O-DU using the NMS
- the received PTP clockClass level of the O-DU using the NMS
- the received SyncE SSM level of the O-DU using the NMS (optional)
- the received PTP clockClass level of the O-RU using the M-Plane
- the received SyncE SSM level of the O-RU using the M-Plane (optional). Note that if SyncE state is NOK, it is
also permitted that the local default SSM level is reported using the M-Plane
- the synchronization status of the deployed T-BC using the respective NMS - the sync-state of the O-RU using
the M-Plane is LOCKED if the received clockClass (or optional SSM QL) value matches the configured list of accepted values, otherwise HOLDOVER or FREERUN
- the PTP lock-state of the O-RU using the M-Plane is LOCKED,
and the PTP state of the O-RU using the M-Plane is PARENT if the received clockClass matches the configured list of accepted values, otherwise NOK
- the SyncE lock-state (optional) of the O-RU using the M-Plane is LOCKED or OK,
and the SyncE state of the O-RU using the M-Plane is PARENT or OK if the received SSM matches the configured list of accepted values, otherwise NOK Note: If the NETCONF client triggers a reset procedure of the O-RU by FREERUN of the sync-state at these degraded conditions, the status observation using M-plane is not available for NETCONF client. It is observed that the alarm- notification is sent from the O-RU using M-Plane and the regular start-up procedures is performed. 7.5 Functional test of O-DU + O-RU using ITU-T G.8275.2 profile (LLS-C1) This test is not addressed in the present document.

## 7.6 Functional test of O-DU + bridged network + O-RU using ITU-T
G.8275.2 profile (LLS-C2) This test is not addressed in the present document.

## 7.7 Functional test of O-DU + bridged network + O-RU using ITU-T
G.8275.2 profile (LLS-C3) This test is not addressed in the present document.

## 7.8 Functional test of O-DU + bridged network + O-RU (LLS-C4)
This test case is not addressed in the present document. 7.9 Performance test of O-DU + Two O-RUs using ITU-T G.8275.1 profile (LLS-C1)

### 7.9.1 Test Description and applicability
This test case is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU and O-DU declare support of LLS-C1 synchronization option (see Clause 4.5). This test validates that the two O-RUs meet the 3GPP limits at their air interface, when
- the O-DU gets its synchronization from a PRTC using either a local or remote PRTC as specified in the
Conformance Test Specification [24], under either ideal or normal conditions
- and is connected to two O-RUs via direct FH links
- and distributes frequency and time to these O-RUs using the ITU-T G.8275.1 (SyncE + PTP) profile

### 7.9.2 Minimum Requirements (Prerequisites)
1. IOT Functional test 7.2 is successfully passed and all O-DU, and O-RUs report LOCKED status 2. O-RUs are connected to the O-DU via direct fiber O-RAN links 3. O-RUs are suitable for Case 1.1 or 1.2 as specified in eCPRI [11]

### 7.9.3 Purpose and scope
The O-DU synchronize the O-RUs with the ITU-T G.8275.1 profile [5]. This test validates that the frequency and time error on the O-RU air interfaces are within the limits of the 3GPP, in both constant and variable temperature and traffic load conditions. Only LOCKED state is tested; HOLDOVER state test is not addressed in the present document.

### 7.9.4 Testability Requirements imposed on O-RU and O-DU
Both O-DU and O-RU are running nominal software. Requirements for M-Plane: is “up and running.” Synchronization requirement: O-DU and test equipment is connected to a local PRTC or source traceable to PRTC. Test 7.2.6.2 is successfully passed and both O-DU and O-RUs report LOCKED status.

### 7.9.5 Test Methodology
After O-DU and O-RUs are frequency and phase locked to their PRTC synchronization source using the LLS-C1 configuration, the frequency and phase errors are measured on the O-RUs air interface using a test equipment referenced to the same PRTC. The O-DU input time error on the O-DU is as specified in the Conformance Test Specification [24],
- Either “ideal” with zero value
- Or “normal”, with configured values with standard masks

### 7.9.6 Test Requirement (expected result)
For both constant and variable conditions tests, the acceptance criterion is to measure with the test equipment:
- ±50 ppb maximum frequency error at the air interface
- ITU-T Level 4, eCPRI Cat C (mandatory): ± 1500ns maximum absolute time error at the O-RU air interface
- ITU-T Level 6A, eCPRI Cat B (optional): ± 260ns maximum relative time error between the two O-RUs air
interfaces Note: This level of accuracy assumes an O-RU implementation suitable for Case 1.1 and case 1.2 as specified in eCPRI [11].
- ITU-T Level 6B, eCPRI Cat A (optional) ± 130ns maximum relative time error between the two O-RUs air
interfaces Note: This level of accuracy assumes an O-RU implementation suitable for Case 1.2 as specified in eCPRI [11]. It also assumes co-location of the O-RUs and O-DU.

## 7.10 Performance test of O-DU + bridged network + Two O-RUs
using ITU-T G.8275.1 profile (LLS-C2)

### 7.10.1 Test Description and applicability
This test case is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU and O-DU declare support of LLS-C2 synchronization option (see Clause 4.5). This test validates that the two O-RUs are meeting the 3GPP limits at their air interface, when:
- the O-DU gets its synchronization from a PRTC using a local or remote PRTC as specified in the
Conformance Test Specification [24], under either ideal or normal conditions
- and is connected to two O-RUs via eCPRI FH links via bridged network elements acting as class B T-BCs
- and distributes frequency and time to these O-RUs using the ITU-T G.8275.1 (SyncE + PTP) profile [5]

### 7.10.2 Minimum Requirements (Prerequisites)
1. IOT Functional Test 7.3 is successfully passed and all O-DU, bridged network elements and O-RUs report LOCKED status 2. O-RUs are connected to O-DU via bridged network elements acting as ITU-T G.8275.1 class B T-BCs using O-RAN links [5] 3. O-RUs are suitable for Case 1.1 or 1.2 as specified in eCPRI [11]

### 7.10.3 Purpose and Scope
The O-DU synchronizes the O-RUs with the ITU-T G.8275.1 [5] profile via the bridged network elements. This test validates that the frequency and time error on the O-RU air interfaces are within the limits of the 3GPP, in both constant and variable temperature and traffic load conditions. Only LOCKED state is tested; HOLDOVER state test is not addressed in the present document.

### 7.10.4 Testability Requirements imposed on O-RU and O-DU
Both O-DU and O-RU are running nominal software. Requirements for M-Plane: is “up and running” Synchronization requirement: O-DU and test equipment is connected to a local PRTC or source traceable to PRTC. Test 7.3.6.2 is successfully passed and both O-DU and O-RUs report LOCKED status.

### 7.10.5 Test Methodology
After O-DU and O-RUs are frequency and phase locked to their PRTC synchronization source using the LLS-C2 configuration, the frequency and phase errors are measured on the O-RUs air interface using a test equipment referenced to the same PRTC. The O-DU input time error on the O-DU is as specified in the Conformance Test Specification [24],
- Either “ideal” with zero value
- Or “normal”, with configured values with standard masks

### 7.10.6 Test Requirement (expected result)
For both constant and variable conditions tests, the acceptance criterion is to measure with the test equipment:
- ±50 ppb maximum frequency error
- ITU-T Level 4, eCPRI Cat C (mandatory): ± 1500ns maximum absolute time error at the O-RU air interface
- ITU-T Level 6A, eCPRI Cat B (optional): ± 260ns maximum relative time error between the two O-RUs air
interfaces Note: This level of accuracy assumes up to 1 (respectively 2) class B T-BC on the path between the branching one and each O-RU implementation suitable for case 1.1 (respectively case 1.2) as specified in eCPRI [11].
- ITU-T Level 6B, eCPRI Cat A (optional) ± 130ns maximum relative time error between the two O-RUs air
interfaces Note: This level of accuracy assumes direct fiber link between the branching class B T-BC and each O-RU implementation suitable case 1.2 as specified in eCPRI [11] (not supported by case 1.1). It also assumes co- location of the O-RUs and O-DU.

## 7.11 Performance test of O-DU + bridged network + Two O-RUs
using ITU-T G.8275.1 profile (LLS-C3)

### 7.11.1 Test Description and applicability
This test case is CONDITIONAL MANDATORY and shall be performed if the O-RU and O-DU declare support of LLS-C3 synchronization option (see Clause 4.5). This test validates that the two O-RUs are meeting the 3GPP limits at their air interface, and the O-DU is meeting time error limits specified in O-RAN WG4 CUS Specification [2] when
- both O-DU and O-RUs get their synchronization from a PRTC using SyncE + PTP over a Full Timing Support
network (ITU-T G.8275.1 profile [5], ITU-T G.8271.1 network limits [7])

### 7.11.2 Minimum Requirements (Prerequisites)
1. IOT Functional Test 7.4 is successfully passed and all O-DU, bridged network elements and O-RUs report LOCKED status 2. O-RUs and O-DU are connected to bridged network elements acting as ITU-T G.8275.1 class B T-BCs using O-RAN links [5]. This FH network has a local PRTC distributing SyncE and PTP to both O-DU and O-RUs. 3. O-RUs are suitable for Case 1.1 or 1.2 as specified in eCPRI [11]

### 7.11.3 Purpose and scope
The FH network synchronizes all O-DU and O-RUs with the ITU-T G.8275.1 [5] profile via the bridged network elements. This test validates that the frequency and time error on the O-RU air interfaces and O-DU are within the limits of the 3GPP, in both constant and variable temperature and traffic load conditions. Only LOCKED state is tested; HOLDOVER state test is not addressed in the present document.

### 7.11.4 Testability Requirements imposed on O-RU and O-DU
Both O-DU and O-RU are running nominal software. Requirements for M-Plane: is “up and running” Synchronization requirement: FH network and test equipment is connected to a local PRTC or source traceable to PRTC. Test 7.4.6.2 is successfully passed and both O-DU and O-RUs report LOCKED status.

### 7.11.5 Test Methodology
After O-DU and O-RUs are frequency and phase locked to their PRTC synchronization source using the LLS-C3 configuration, the frequency and phase errors are measured at the O-RUs air interface using a test equipment referenced to the same PRTC. The PRTC output time error on the O-DU is as specified in the Conformance Test Specification [24],
- Either “ideal” with zero value
- Or “normal”, with configured values with standard masks

### 7.11.6 Test Requirement (expected result)
For both constant and variable conditions tests, the acceptance criterion is to measure with the test equipment:
- ±50 ppb maximum frequency error (mandatory): at the O-RU air interface
- ITU-T Level 4, eCPRI Cat C (mandatory): ± 1500ns maximum absolute time error at the O-RU air interface
and at the O-DU output test signal (for example 1PPS)
- ITU-T Level 6A, eCPRI Cat B (optional): ± 260ns maximum relative time error between the two O-RUs air
interfaces Note: This level of accuracy assumes up to 1 (respectively 2) class B T-BC on the path between the branching one and each O-RU implementation suitable for case 1.1 (respectively case 1.2) as specified in eCPRI [11].
- ITU-T Level 6B, eCPRI Cat A (optional) ± 130ns maximum relative time error between the two O-RUs air
interfaces Note: This level of accuracy assumes direct fiber link between the branching class B T-BC and each O-RU implementation suitable case 1.2 as specified in eCPRI [11] (not supported by case 1.1). It also assumes co- location of the O-RUs and O-DU.

## 7.12 Performance test of O-DU + Two O-RUs using ITU-T
G.8275.2 profile (LLS-C1) This test is not addressed in the present document.

## 7.13 Performance test of O-DU + bridged network + Two O-RUs
using ITU-T G.8275.2 profile ((LLS-C2) This test is not addressed in the present document.

## 7.14 Performance test of O-DU + bridged network + Two O-RUs
using ITU-T G.8275.2 profile (LLS-C3) This test is not addressed in the present document.

## 7.15 Performance test of O-DU + bridged network + Two O-RUs
(LLS-C4) This test is not addressed in the present document.

# 8 C/U-Plane IOT Test

## 8.1 Overview
C/U-Plane IOT tests are used to validate the performance of DUT and interoperability of O-DU and O-RU from different vendors using O-RAN specified or customized IOT profile test configuration(s). IOT profiles and associated PTCs to be tested are selected by the participating vendors. Not all PTCs within a profile are required to be tested. See


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG4.TS.MP.0-R004-v19.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG4.TS.MP.0-R004-v19.00 Technical Specification Management Plane Specification"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1] and the following apply.
> NOTE: A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1]. Ad-Hoc O-RU Controller: O-RU controllers that are not configured by DHCP when O-RU performs M-plane transport resolution and not configured by an O-RU controller using o-ran-mplane-int YANG model.
> NOTE: An O-RU does not perform call home to any Ad-Hoc O-RU Controller.
Advanced Sleep Mode (ASM): Advanced sleep mode is used to achieve energy saving by disabling some fraction of the O-RU's processing for a defined or undefined period of time. alarm: a representation of an error or failure that requires attention or reaction by an operator or some machine. Alarms have state. Refer to [82] for definition. antenna line: connection between O-RU and antenna. call home O-RU Controller: O-RU controllers that are configured by DHCP when O-RU performs M-plane transport resolution as part of start-up installation procedure or that are provisioned by an O-RU controller in o-ran-mplane- int.yang. cascade mode: Mode of Shared cell which is realized by several O-RUs cascaded in chain topology. Control Plane (C-Plane): refers specifically to real-time control between O-DU and O-RU, and should not be confused with the UE's control plane data layer control: Data layer control is used to achieve energy saving in the O-RU through reducing the number of data layers independent of TRX-Control. deep-hibernate: Deep-hibernate is an O-RU operational mode used to achieve maximum energy saving by disabling all carriers. This also includes turning off the C/U/S/M Plane processing units and functions of the O-RU for a defined time period. This implies that O-RU is powered off with only the deep-hibernate timer running. DownLink (DL): data flow towards the radiating antenna (generally on the LLS interface). Event-Collector: A REST server to which an O-RU supporting NON-PERSISTENT-MPLANE feature can send a JSON notification, for example PNF registration. Event-collectors are configured when O-RU performs M-plane transport resolution as part of start-up installation procedure. extended Antenna-Carrier (eAxC): data flow for a single antenna (or spatial stream) for a single carrier in a single sector. fault: the (hypothesized or adjudged) cause for an error or a failure (such as system malfunctions, a defect in system design, a defect in software, or external interference). Refer to [82] for definition. FHM mode: Mode of Shared cell which is realized by FHM and several O-RUs in star topology. Hierarchical O-DU: an O-DU that is operated in isolation, or in concert with other O-DUs, e.g., in a shared O-RU deployment, such that the O-DU(s) is(are) solely responsible for the management of the O-RU. High-PHY: those portions of the PHY processing on the O-DU side of the fronthaul interface, including FEC encode/decode, scrambling, and modulation/demodulation. Hybrid O-DU: an O-DU that is operated such that it shares the responsibilities for the management of the O-RU with other non-O-DU systems, e.g. SMO. Lower Layer Split (LLS): Lower Layer Split: logical interface between O-DU and O-RU when using a lower layer (intra-PHY based) functional split. Lower Layer Split Control-plane (LLS-C): Lower Layer Split Control-plane: logical interface between O-DU and O- RU when using a lower layer functional split. Lower Layer Split Synchronisation-plane (LLS-S): Lower Layer Split Synchronisation-plane: logical interface between O-DU and O-RU when using a lower layer functional split. Lower Layer Split User-plane (LLS-U): Lower Layer Split User-plane: logical interface between O-DU and O-RU when using a lower layer functional split. Low-PHY: those portions of the PHY processing on the O-RU side of the fronthaul interface, including FFT/iFFT, digital beamforming, and PRACH extraction and filtering. Management Plane (M-Plane): refers to non-real-time management operations between the O-DU and the O-RU. Multi O-DU O-RU: O-RU that supports the SHARED-ORU-MULTI-ODU feature. Multi-Operator O-RU: An O-RU that supports the SHARED-ORU-MULTI-OPERATOR and SHARED-ORU- MULTI-ODU features. Network Management System (NMS): From an Open Fronthaul perspective, a generic Network Management System used to support O-RU operations. north-node: O-DU or connected O-RU closer to the O-DU for the O-RU. EXAMPLE: The cascade O-RU#1 connected to O-RU#2 is north-node for O-RU#2, when O-DU, O-RU#1 and O-RU#2 are in cascade chain topology. The O-DU in star topology connected to an FHM is north- node for the FHM. port: end of a transport link.
> NOTE 3: In most cases this is an optical port.
port number: A number which identifies a port (see Port).
> NOTE 1: In case of SFP/SFP+ port, port number value is 0 to N-1 where N is number of ports in the device.
> NOTE 2: Numbers 0 to N-1 are assigned to ports in order following order of labels on the device (labels for ports
are not necessarily numbers starting from zero). PRACH symbol: resource in the time domain having the duration of (1/Subcarrier Spacing), following cyclic prefix (excluded) in a PRACH occasion.
> NOTE: Cyclic prefix and one or more of such consecutive PRACH Symbols constitute a PRACH preamble or a
NPRACH symbol group defined in 3GPP TS 36.211 [74] and 3GPP TS 38.211 [75]. O-RAN Distributed Unit (O-DU): logical node hosting PDCP/RLC/MAC/High-PHY layers based on a lower layer functional split. O-RAN Radio Unit (O-RU): logical node hosting Low-PHY layer and RF processing based on a lower layer functional split.
> NOTE: This is similar to 3GPP's "TRP" or "RRH" but more specific in including the Low-PHY layer (FFT/iFFT,
PRACH extraction). O-RU Controller: network function that is permitted to control the configuration of an O-RU.
> NOTE: Examples of O-RU controllers include, an O-DU, a classical NMS, an O-RAN Service Management and
Orchestration function, or other network automation platforms. Service Management and Orchestration (SMO) system: the O-RAN defined system that is responsible for RAN domain management. shared cell: operation for the same cell by several O-RUs. shared cell network: network for several cascade O-RUs in a chain topology or the network for one FHM and several O-RUs in a star topology. shared O-RU Host: role performed by the NETCONF client associated with the operator of a Multi-Operator O-RU who determines how the resources of a Multi-Operator O-RU are partitioned between Shared Resource Operators. Shared Resource Operator: role performed by the NETCONF client associated with an operator that utilizes the carrier resources of a Multi-Operator O-RU.
> NOTE 1: The Shared Resource Operator is allocated a Shared Resource Operator identity by the Shared O-RU
Host.
> NOTE 2: A NETCONF client of an operator can simultaneously perform the Shared O-RU Host role and the
Shared Resource Operator role. Alternatively, a NETCONF client of an operator can only perform the Shared O-RU Host role and not Shared Resource Operator role, in which case the operator corresponds to a neutral host operator. software build: consistent set of software files used for a specific radio type of a defined HW version.
> NOTE 1: Software build is subject of versioning and maintenance.
> NOTE 2: Software build is contained within a software package.
software package: archive delivered by an O-RU vendor.
> NOTE: It contains one or multiple builds and can be used for one or several radio products.
south-node: connected O-RU far from O-DU for the O-RU. EXAMPLE: The cascade O-RU#2 connected to O-RU#1 is south-node for O-RU#1, when O-DU, O-RU#1 and O-RU#2 are in cascade chain topology. The O-RU in star topology connected to an FHM is south- node for the FHM. spatial stream: data flow on the DL associated with precoded data (may be same as layers or different if there is expansion in the precoding), and on UL associated with the number of outputs from the digital beamforming (sometimes called "beams"). Synchronization Plane (S-Plane): refers to traffic between the O-RU or O-DU to a synchronization controller which is generally an IEEE-1588 Grand Master (however, Grand Master functionality may be embedded in the O-DU) Synchronization Status Message (SSM): part of ITU G.781 and G.8264 standards. Transport Endpoint: for O-RU, it is identified by an O-RU interface name, plus optional alias MAC address or optional IP address and UDP-port. For O-DU, it is identified by O-DU address and optional UDP port. TRX: refers to the specific processing chain in an O-RU associated with D/A or A/D converters.
> NOTE: Due to digital beamforming the number of TRXs may exceed the number of spatial streams, and due to
analogue beamforming, the number of TRXs may be lower than the number of array elements. TRX Control: TRX control is used to achieve energy saving through disabling one or more O-RU array elements for a defined or undefined period of time. Up-Link (UL): data flow away from the radiating antenna (generally on the LLS interface). User Plane (U-Plane): refers to IQ sample data transferred between O-DU and O-RU. Virtual Connection: a connection between O-RU and O-RU controller.
> NOTE: This connection is established by means of autodetection procedure and is supervised by supervision
procedure.

## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1] and the following apply:
> NOTE: An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1]. ALD Antenna Line Device ASM Advanced Sleep Mode AVP AVerage Power CA Certificate Authority CA/RA Certificate Authority/Registration Authority CBRS Citizens Broadband Radio Service CCM Continuity Check Message CMP Certificate Management Protocol CRC Cyclic Redundancy Check CUS Control/User/Synchronisation DHCP Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol DMTC DRS Measurement Timing Configuration DRS Discovery Reference Signal DSCP Differentiated Services Code Point EAP Extensible Authentication Protocol EAPOL EAP encapsulation over LANs FPGA Field Programmable Gate Array FHM FrontHaul Multiplexer FTPES File Transfer Protocol Explicit-mode Secure GPU Graphics Processing Unit HDLC High-level Data Link Control ISS (MAC layer) Internal Sublayer Service KaY Key Agreement Entity LAA Licensed Assisted Access LBM Loop-Back Message LBR Loop Back Reply LBT Listen Before Talk LLS-M Lower Layer Split Management plane MACsec Media Access Control Security ME Maintenance Entity MEP Maintenance association End Point MKA MACsec Key Agreement MSS Maximum Segment Size NAT Network Address Translation NDM Non-Delay Managed NETCONF NETwork CONFiguration Protocol O-DU O-RAN Distributed Unit
> NOTE: See clause 3.1.
O-RU O-RAN Radio Unit PAE Port Access Entity PLFS Physical Layer Frequency Synchronization PNF Physical Network Function RET Remote Electrical Tilt RPC Remote Procedure Call SAS Spectrum Access Service SecTAG MAC Security TAG SecY MAC Security Entity SFP Small Form-factor Pluggable sFTP secure File Transfer Protocol or SSH File Transfer Protocol SLAAC StateLess Address Auto Configuration SMO Service Management and Orchestration SRS Sounding Reference Signal SSH Secure Shell TEC ThermoElectric Cooler TLS Transport Layer Security TRX Transceiver T-TSC Telecom Time Subordinate Clock.
> NOTE: This is what ITU-T standards refer to as a Telecom Time Slave Clock
VLAN Virtual LAN YANG Yet Another Next Generation

# 4 General

## 4.1 Conventions
This management plane specification includes cross references to a set of associated YANG models. Text may reference particular YANG leafs, notifications and remote procedure calls (RPCs). In order to assist in readability, all cross references to YANG defined elements will keep the identical case format as defined in the corresponding YANG model, with the font-weight set to bold. This convention applies only to text and not to YANG elements embedded into figures. If there is any conflict between the YANG models and the accompanying text description in the present document, the definition of the YANG models shall take precedence.

## 4.2 Void

## 4.3 Revision and compatibility handling
The revision statement in the YANG models shall be used to describe future revisions to the models that are backwards compatible, where backwards compatibility changes follow the rules specified in RFC 7950 [4], clause 11. The format of the namespace used in all O-RAN YANG models is "urn:o-ran:"<model-name>" :"<model-number>, where the initial <model-number> used in a newly defined YANG model is "1.0". Where this document makes reference to models, irrespective of their backward compatibility, a generic <model-number> of "x.y" is used to enable reference to all versions of the namespace for a particular <model-name>. Backwards incompatible changes shall be addressed by incrementing the number used as part of the model name and namespace and updating the name of the model, effectively creating a new YANG model. Any backwards incompatible change to a model will change the model name from <original-model-name>.yang to <original-model-name>"x".yang, where the value "x" in the model name matches the value of "x" used in the namespace. For example, the first backwards incompatible change to o-ran-ald.yang will be included in the model named o-ran-ald2.yang and a subsequent backwards incompatible change to o-ran-ald2.yang will be included in the model named o-ran-ald3.yang. The revision statement in all YANG models shall include a reference statement used to cross-reference to the first version of this document where the corresponding description was introduced. For example, the reference in all revision statements for the initial O-RAN models include cross-reference to "ORAN-WG4.MP.0-v01.00". The revision statement of the YANG models shall also include a description which is used to track the versioning of the YANG model. All revision statement descriptions begin with "version "<a>"."<b>"."<c>", where <a>, <b> and <c> are used to reflect the version of the YANG model, where: <a> corresponds to the first digit of the O-RAN WG4 management plane specification version where the corresponding description was first introduced, corresponding to <x> in clause 1. <b> is incremented when errors in the YANG model have been corrected. <c> is incremented only in working versions of the YANG model indicating incremental changes during the editing process. An O-RU shall use the supported-mplane-version leaf in o-ran-operations YANG model to provide the highest version of the O-RAN.WG4.MP.0 specification that the O-RU is compliant with. An O-RU declaring compliance to a version shall ensure that when its YANG library contains a YANG model listed in Tables E.1 and E.2 specified in the corresponding version of the O-RAN.WG4.MP.0 specification, that the revision statement date of the YANG model is no earlier than the revision date as listed in the corresponding Tables E-1 and E.2 while ensuring backwards compatibility. If an O-RU indicates it supports a particular supported-mplane-version and one or more modules in its YANG library have a revision statement later than the date listed in the corresponding Tables E-1 and E.2, then an O- RU controller that supports the later module revision can exercise the functionality introduced in the later revision. O-RU Controllers that receive YANG library information from the O-RU with a module revision that is a higher version than the module revision currently used by the O-RU Controller can assume that models with the same namespace have been updated to ensure backwards compatibility. The O-RU Controller can continue to use its current module version and any unknown schema nodes and/or unknown notifications received from the O-RU, i.e. those introduced in later revisions, should be ignored by the O-RU Controller.
> NOTE 1: This allows an O-RU to be incrementally enhanced with functionality introduced in newer versions of the
compliant with the present document.
> NOTE 2: There have been non-backwards compatibility changes made during the development of earlier versions
of the present document. This means that the YANG backwards compatibility rules described above do not accommodate these specific changes. In particular: ▪ "ORAN-WG4.MP.0-v05.00" : Switched the mandatory cipher 3DES-CBC to AES128-CTR. ▪ "ORAN-WG4.MP.0-v06.00" : Switched from all O-RUs required to support IPv4 to enable IPv6 only O-RUs. ▪ "ORAN-WG4.MP.0-v07.00" : Added data-direction to the eaxc-measured-result list. An O-DU compliant to an earlier version of the document will ignore the leaf and not understand whether a counter corresponds to messages with dataDirection bit set to 1 or 0. ▪ "ORAN-WG4.MP.0-v12.00" : Switched IEEE 802.1X supplicant functionality support in O-RU from recommended to mandatory. ▪ "ORAN-WG4.MP.0-v16.01" : Added Simple Public Key-based SSH Client authentication by SSH server as an option for default user authentication. ▪ "ORAN-WG4.MP.0-v17.00" : Switched from importing ietf-crypto-types revision date 2022-12-12 to importing ietf-crypto-types revision date 2024-10-10. YANG features have been renamed in this switch, including: i) feature "p10-based-csrs" in revision date 2022-12-12 is renamed "p10-csr- format" in revision data 2024-10-10, and ii) feature "hidden-keys" in revision date 2022-12-12 is renamed " hidden-private-keys" in revision data 2024-10-10.

## 4.4 Namespace compatibility handling
If backwards incompatible changes have been made, the <model-number> used in the YANG model namespace shall be incremented. Following such changes, an O-RU may include multiple backwards incompatible model names and namespaces in its YANG library, for example "urn:o-ran:"<model-name>":1.0" and "urn:o-ran:"<model-name>":2.0". The O-RAN Alliance's IPR policy defines terms regarding the modification of O-RAN defined specifications. When such modifications are necessary, the preferred approach for realizing such is for the third-party licensee to publish their own augmentations to the O-RAN defined YANG models and procedures. An O-RU that supports such third-party modifications shall include such model augmentations in its YANG library. Consequently, an O-RU Controller should be prepared to ignore any unknown models, e.g. developed according to such a procedure, as well as ignoring any unknown notifications defined in such models and received by an O-RU Controller that has subscribed to the O-RU's default event stream, as described in clause 9.1.7.2.

# 5 High level description

## 5.1 Top level functional description, terminology, including
hybrid, hierarchical

### 5.1.1 Architecture for O-RAN WG4 fronthaul functional split
This O-RAN FH specification addresses the lower layer functional split as depicted in Figure 5.1.1-1. Refer to the O- RAN CUS plane specification [2], clause 4.1 for more details on the split architecture. The Lower-Layer Split M-plane (LLS-M) facilitates the initialisation, configuration and management of the O-RU to support the stated functional split.

### 5.1.2 M-Plane architecture model

# A NETCONF/YANG based M-Plane is used for supporting the management features including "start up" installation,
software management, configuration management, performance management, fault management and file management towards the O-RU. The M-Plane supports two architectural models: 1) Hierarchical model. As shown on the left side Figure 5.1.2-1, the O-RU is managed entirely by one or more O-DU(s) using a NETCONF based M-Plane interface. 2) Hybrid model. As shown on the right side of Figure 5.1.2-1, the hybrid architecture enables one or more direct logical interface(s) between management system(s) and O-RU in addition to a logical interface between O-DU and the O-RU. In the hybrid model, the accounts of the NETCONF clients connecting to the O-RU shall be configured with one or more privilege groups that reflect the NETCONF client's responsibilities, allowing functions like O-RU software management, performance management, configuration management, carrier configuration and fault management to be managed directly by the management system(s).
> NOTE 1: This avoids the situation where a NETCONF client is configured with a privilege group that does not
reflect its responsibilities, and where a non-compliant client can configure aspects of an O-RU which are intended to be configured by systems associated with other NETCONF clients.

# A Multi-Operator O-RU shall additionally support M-Plane architecture models which involve one or more O-DUs
operated by one or more different Shared Resource Operators. Clause 19.2 describes the high level shared O-RU architecture, including hybrid and hierarchical architecture models for Multi-Operator O-RU operation with one or more different Shared Resource Operators. O-DUs managing an O-RU using the hierarchical model are termed "hierarchical O-DUs" and O-DUs managing an O- RU using the hybrid model are termed "hybrid O-DUs". An O-DU may be designed to operate only as a hierarchical O- DU, only as a hybrid O-DU or as both a hierarchical and hybrid O-DU, i.e. when operating with different O-RUs.
> NOTE 2: How an O-DU that is designed to manage an O-RU (either as a hierarchical or hybrid O-DU) is
configured to operate in a specific mode with a particular O-RU is outside the scope of the present document. In the hybrid model, the O-RU has end to end IP layer connectivity with the SMO. From a physical network point of view, this connectivity could be via the hybrid O-DU, where the hybrid O-DU is acting as an IP/Ethernet packet forwarder, forwards the packets between O-RU and the SMO. Direct logical communication between an O-RU and SMO can be enabled via O-RUs being assigned routable IPs or local private IPs resolved by a NAT function in the network (or implemented at the hybrid O-DU). Refer to clause 6 for details how O-RU acquires the IP address of O-DU and SMO for the M-plane communication. As described in clause 6, there is no explicit signalling to indicate that an O-RU is operating in a hierarchical or hybrid configuration. All NETCONF servers supporting this M-Plane specification shall support multiple NETCONF sessions. All O-RUs shall be able to support both hierarchical and hybrid deployment. NETCONF/YANG is used as the network element management protocol [3] and data modelling language [4]. Use of such a standardised framework and common modelling language simplifies integration between O-DU and O-RU as well as operator network integration (in terms of running service) in case of elements sharing a common set of capabilities. The framework supports integration of products with differing capabilities enabled by well-defined published data models. NETCONF also natively supports a hybrid architecture which enables multiple clients to subscribe and receive information originating at the NETCONF server in the O-RU.

### 5.1.3 Transport network
Based on the transport topology, various modes of network connectivity are possible between O-RU and O-DU and SMO. The basic requirement for M-Plane is to have end to end IP connectivity between the O-RU and the elements managing it (O-DU, SMO, or so called "O-RU Controllers"). The connectivity between the O-DU and SMO and its management plane are not in scope of the present document. The O-RU shall support either IPv4 or IPv6 and optionally support dual stack (IPv4 and IPv6).
> NOTE: In previous versions of the present document, only IPv4 was mandatory. In order to ensure backwards
compatibility with equipment supporting earlier versions of the present document, an operator and vendor can agree to use a common IP version in the O-RU, O-DU and any other O-RU controllers.

### 5.1.4 M-Plane functional description
The M-Plane provides the following major functionalities to the O-RU. These features are implemented using the NETCONF provided functions. "Start-up" installation During start-up, the O-RU shall acquire its network layer parameters either via static (pre-configured in the O-RU) or dynamically via DHCP or DHCPv6. During this process the O-RU may acquire the IP address of the O-RU controller(s), in which case the O-RU establishes the NETCONF connectivity using the "call home" feature. When the O-RU is operating in an environment which include the O-RAN defined SMO, the O-RU may acquire the IP address of the event-collector(s), in which case the O-RU performs a pnfRegistration which triggers the SMO to establish NETCONF connectivity using the information recovered from the pnfRegistration procedure. The capability exchange shall be performed between the client and server as part of the initial NETCONF Hello exchanges. Details of these steps are provided in clause 6.
> NOTE 1: The use of "start up" terminology in the present document is distinct from the "start-up" capability used in
a NETCONF environment to indicate that a device supports separate running and startup configuration datastores.
> NOTE 2: The O-RU Controller can also be used to configure additional network layer parameters, as described in
clause 6.2.1. The present document makes specific reference to configuration which is required to be stored in "reset persistent memory". The O-RU shall use this stored configuration as its "startup" configuration. SW management The M-Plane is used for software download, installation, validation and activation of new SW when requested by O-RU Controller. The software download is triggered by NETCONF RPC procedures, and the actual software download is performed using sFTP with SSH or FTPES with TLS as specified in RFC 4217 [54]. Configuration management Configuration management covers various scenarios like Retrieve Resource State, Modify Resource State, Modify Parameters and Retrieve Parameters. NETCONF get-config and edit-config RPCs shall be used for configuration parameter retrieval and updates at the O-RU Performance management Performance management describes the measurements and counters used to collect data related to O-RU operations. The purpose of Performance Management is optimizing the operation of the O-RU. The measurement results are reported by two options: 1) YANG Notification: This option uses the stats definition of YANG model per measurement group. In this case, get RPC and/or notification are used (see clause 10 for more details). 2) File Upload: This option uses the file upload procedure defined in clause12. The measurement results are saved to a data file periodically. Fault Management Fault management is used for sending alarm notifications to the NETCONF Client. Fault Management allows alarm notifications to be disabled or enabled as well as alarm subscription. File Management File management allows the O-RU Controller to trigger an O-RU to perform upload of files stored on O-RU to O-RU Controller. The O-RU may provide different kinds of files and retrieved files can be used for various purposes. Simultaneous multiple file upload operations can be supported under the same sFTP or FTPES connection between O- RU to O-DU/SMO.

## 5.2 Interfaces
The M-Plane interface is defined between the O-RU Controller and the O-RU. The protocol stack of the M-Plane interface is shown in Figure 5.2-1 below. The transport network layer built on IP transport, SSH/TCP, and TLS, is used to carry the M-Plane message between the O-RU Controller and the O-RU. As an option, the O-RU may support the capability to support asynchronous notifications to be sent using HTTPS. This option enables system optimisation when the O-RU Controller corresponds to the SMO which is operating with a non-persistent NETCONF session to the O-RU. NDP MPlane Notif Notif ( note 1) (note 2) (note 3) SFTP FTPES CMPv2 DHCP DHCPv6 NETCONF HTTP UDPECHO ICMP 802.1X ARP ICMPv6 SSH or TLS TLS SSH TLS HTTP LBM UDP UDP TCP UDP IPv4 IPv6 IPv4 or IPv6 802.1Q tagged or (opt) untagged ETH frames Physical Layer
> NOTE 1: Management Plane Configuration Management
> NOTE 2: Asynchronous Notification over NETCONF
> NOTE 3: Asynchronous Notification over JSON/REST (Optional)

## 5.3 YANG module introduction
The data models representing the M-Plane are organized as a set of reusable YANG modules. It is also the intent to reuse the publicly available and generic YANG models as much as possible instead of developing customized O-RAN specific modules. Refer to the various clauses, clause D and the repository of YANG models for more details on each of these modules.

## 5.4 Security

### 5.4.1 General
Clause 5.4 specifies the security requirements for the O-RU. The O-RU shall provide end to end security for all OAM procedures. All O-RUs shall support SSH based security described in clause 5.4.2 and TLS based security described in clause 5.4.3. Corresponding file transfer protocols are defined in clause 5.4.4, including SFTP-based transfer over SSH and FTPES-based transfer over TLS. As per requirements in [79] clause 5.3.4.1, all O-RUs should implement robust implementations of SSH and TLS transport protocols.
> NOTE: It is recommended that operators use NETCONF/TLS and FTPES in production networks
A summary of the mandatory and optional O-RU authentications features is shown in Table 5.4.1-1. Certificate PKIX (Public Key lifecycle Infrastructure with Password-based Protocol management X.509 Certificates) Simple Public Key Authentication TLS 1.2 Mandatory to Mandatory to support / not specified for use Not specified for use (Mandatory) support CMPv2, Optional to use with TLS with NETCONF TLS 1.3 optional to support (Optional) vendor certificate lifecycle management SSHv2 Optional to Optional to Used for SSH Used for SSH Client (Mandatory) support CMPv2, support/Optional to use Server authentication by SSH optional to support authentication by server. Mandatory to vendor certificate SSH client (RFC support / Optional to use lifecycle 4253 [7]). management Mandatory to support / Optional to use. Used for SSH Client authentication by SSH server (RFC 4252 [6]). Optional to support / Optional to use.

### 5.4.2 Secure Shell (SSH)
The O-RU shall support NETCONF/SSHv2 as specified in RFC 6242 [5]. If there are multiple NETCONF sessions established with a single O-RU, each session should be established over a separate SSH tunnel. SSHv2 may be used to perform SSH client authentication, SSH server host authentication, key exchange, encryption, and integrity protection. It also derives a unique session ID that may be used by higher-level protocols. The end point (SSH client) authentication should be done as specified in RFC 4252 [6]. Clause 6.4.2 of the present document describes NETCONF authentication approach. The authentication mechanism and protocol for operators to use are as shown in Table 5.4.1-1. The SSHv2 transport level security (encryption algorithms, data integrity algorithms) shall be as specified in RFC 4253 [7]. The O-RU shall support the mandatory symmetric algorithms for encrypting transferred data as specified in clause 4.1.2.2 of [56], with the following deviation:
- support for aes256-gcm, aes128-gcm, aes256-ctr and aes192-ctr are optional for the O-RU to support.
For data integrity, the O-RU shall support the mandatory message authentication codes (MACs) specified in clause 4.1.2.4 of [56], with the following deviation:
- support for hmac-sha2-512-etm, hmac-sha2-512, hmac-sha2-256-etm and umac-128 are optional for the O-RU
to support. Public key-based host authentication shall be used for authenticating the server by the clients, and username/password- based client authentication shall be done by the server as part of the SSH session establishment as specified in RFC 4253 [7]. The O-RU shall support the host key algorithms and key exchange methods for securing the Secure Shell (SSH) transport, as specified in clause 10.1 of RFC 5656 [63]. The O-RU shall support the mandatory key agreement algorithms, may support the optional key agreement algorithms and shall not support the prohibited key agreement algorithms, as specified in clause 4.1.2.1 of [56], with the following deviation:
- support for ssh-ed25519 is optional for the O-RU to support.
The O-RU shall support the mandatory key exchange methods and shall not support the prohibited key exchange methods as specified in clause 4.1.2.3 of [56], with the following deviation:
- support for diffie-hellman-group-exchange-sha256 and curve25519-sha256 are optional for the O-RU to
support. The O-RU should support the following host key algorithms as specified in RFC 8332 [68]:
- rsa-sha2-256
- rsa-sha2-512
In order to ensure backwards compatibility with equipment supporting earlier versions of the present document, a vendor may provide support for other, optional non-broken host key algorithms and key exchange methods.
> NOTE 1: A "non-broken" algorithm is an algorithm without publicly available/published vulnerabilities.
As an additional option, both client and server may implement authentication based on X.509 certificates. With this option, RSA 2048 bit shall be supported for the Public Key algorithm, aes128-ctr shall be supported for the ciphering algorithm and hmac-sha2-256 shall be supported for integrity algorithm.
> NOTE 2: The vendor and operator need to be prepared to replace integrity and/or ciphering algorithms if the
current algorithm in use is compromised or deprecated.

### 5.4.3 Transport Layer Security (TLS)
TLS requirements specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specifications [56] clause 4.2 shall apply, with the following deviations:
- TLS 1.3 as specified in clause 4.2.3 of O-RAN Security Protocols Specification [56] may be supported.
RFC 7589 [41] provide the procedures for TLS interoperability with NETCONF implementations. TLS as specified in O-RAN Security Protocols Specification [56] performs mutual authentication, key exchange, encryption, and integrity protection to ensure trusted communication between the NETCONF server (O-RU) and the NETCONF client (O-DU or SMO). NETCONF implementations shall support X.509 certificate-based authentication using TLS as specified in RFC 7589 [41]. When X.509 based authentication is used, NETCONF server identity shall be as specified in clause 4 of RFC 9525 [84] and NETCONF client identity shall be as specified in clause 7 of RFC 7589 [41]. If there are multiple NETCONF sessions established with a single O-RU, each session should be established over a separate TLS connection. It is mandatory that TLS implementations follow the rules on allowed cipher suites specified in clause 4.2.2 of the O- RAN Security Protocols Specifications [56]. TLS implementations shall support the TLS Cipher Suites with SHA-256 and AES Galois Counter Mode as specified in clause 9.2 of RFC 7540 [42] and clause 7 of 3GPP TS 33.210 [46]: Implementations may include additional TLS cipher suites that provide mutual authentication and confidentiality as required by NETCONF in RFC 6241 [3]. Only cipher suites with AEAD (e.g. GCM) and PFS (e.g. ECDHE, DHE) and recommended by IANA [45] may be optionally supported. The disallowed cipher suites in RFC 7540 [49], Appendix A, shall not be used. The vendor and operator need to be prepared to replace integrity and/or ciphering algorithms if the current algorithm in use is compromised or deprecated. TLS 1.2 shall follow TLS profiling defined in clause 6.2.3 of 3GPP TS 33.210 [46]. TLS cipher suites and TLS versions acceptable by O-RU are configurable using hello-params container in o-ran-mplane- int.yang module and stored in reset-persistent memory. The configuration provided in this hello-params container shall be used as the default configuration for all the TLS-protocols (NETCONF, FTPEs, HTTPS) which may be refined by a protocol-specific YANG model.

### 5.4.4 File Transfer Protocol (SFTP, FTPeS)
An O-RU shall support SFTP based secure file transfer over SSH and FTPES based secure file transfer over TLS. Security file transfer requirements specified in O-RAN Security Protocol Specifications [56] clauses 6.2 and 6.3 shall apply.

### 5.4.5 Representational State Transfer
An O-RU may optionally support of JSON/REST transported over HTTPS.
> NOTE: JSON/REST is be used by O-RUs supporting the NON-PERSISTENT-MPLANE feature and the
configured subscriptions capability described in clause 18. HTTPS requirements specified in O-RAN Security Protocol Specifications [56] clause 6.4 shall apply. "Start-up" installation

## 6.1 General
This clause provides the overall start-up mechanism from the power-on of O-RU to available in service. Pre-condition:
- Power-ON for O-RU/NETCONF Server or O-RU restart operation. O-RU enables its port(s).
- O-RU controller/NETCONF Client(s) and/or event-collector is/are in operation.
- Physical interface(s) is(are) connected to a compatible Ethernet port.
Post-condition:
- O-RU is running software from slot with active = TRUE
- O-RU has marked slot with currently used software as running = TRUE
- O-RU is ready for the radio transmission to the air on at least one carrier if packet transmission received from
O-DU
- O-RU is ready for the packet transmission to the O-DU if radio reception received at the air on at least one
carrier.
- At least one O-RU Controller/NETCONF client with either "sudo" or "hybrid-odu" access privileges can
control the carrier configuration of the O-RU/NETCONF server in O-RU. At the power-on of O-RU or following an O-RU restart, the following procedures are performed, as illustrated in Figure 6.1-1. 1) (opt) Supplicant PAE is enabled on the port(s). 2) (opt) The O-RU initiates authentication and attempts to perform an EAP authentication dialogue with a peer Authenticator PAE.
> NOTE 1: This does not limit the ability of an Authenticator PAE to initiate the authentication, as defined in clause
8.1 of [70] 3) (alt) EAP failure results in O-RU providing unauthenticated connectivity. 4) (alt) EAP Success results in O-RU providing authenticated connectivity. 5) O-RU performs M-Plane transport layer resolution (DHCP, MAC, VLAN, IP, etc.) and recovers IP address(es) of O-RU controller(s) and/or pnfRegistration event-collector. 6) (opt) If DHCP response contains CA/RA address information and the O-RU has not already enrolled in the operator PKI, or the certificate issued during previous enrolment has expired, the O-RU attempts to enrol. 7) (opt) After installing the operator issued certificate, the O-RU re-initializes its start-up procedure (jump to step 1). 8) O-RU begins synchronisation of the O-RU against a Primary Reference Clock. Step 8 may be in parallel with step 5 for some O-RU implementation. 9) (opt) O-RU performs NETCONF Call Home to discovered O-RU controller(s). 10) (opt) O-RU performs pnfRegistration to discovered event-collector. 11) O-RU controller performs SSH or TLS connection establishment. 12) O-RU and O-RU controller perform NETCONF capability discovery. 13) (opt) O-RU controller retrieves O-RU schemas using <get-schema> RPC [67]. 14) O-RU controller performs optional provisioning of new management accounts (typically only performed once during pre-staging). O-RU controller may perform provisioning of certificate-to-NETCONF username mapping information to the O-RU after account provisioning in case certificate-based client authentication is used. O-RU controller may perform provisioning of ordered cipher suite and TLS versions acceptable by O- RU (see hello-params container in o-ran-mplane-int.yang module). 15) O-RU and O-RU controller perform supervision of NETCONF connection. 16) O-RU controller performs retrieval of O-RU information. (opt) O-RU controller retrieves O-RU S-Plane information and if necessary, it updates the O-RU's S-Plane configuration. (This step may be started any time after step 15 but needs to be completed before step 28). 17) O-RU controller performs SW management.
> NOTE 2: If an O-RU is running with factory default software, the O-RU functionality is permitted to comprise a
sub-set of a fully operating O-RU. In such scenarios, it is recommended that the O-RU controller triggers a software update to fully functioning O-RU software. 18) O-DU performs CU-Plane transport configuration. 19) (opt) O-DU performs LBM configuration (CU-Plane over ETH) or enables UDP Echo (CU-Plane over IP). 20) (opt) O-DU performs initial C/U-Plane transport connectivity checking between O-DU and O-RU. 21) O-RU controller retrieves the O-RU delay profile from the O-RU. 22) O-RU controller performs U-Plane configuration between O-DU and O-RU. C/U-Plane transport connectivity between O-DU and O-RU is configured as part of this step. 23) O-DU optionally performs C/U-Plane delay measurements between O-DU and O-RU if the O-RU supports it. 24) O-RU controller performs Fault Management activation by creating a subscription to the YANG notifications defined in the o-ran-fm.yang model. Additionally, the O-RU controller uses the same YANG model to retrieve the list of O-RU's active alarms. See Clause 11 for details. 25) O-RU controller activates performance measurement (if required at start-up timing). 26) O-RU controller retrieves O-RU state, including synchronisation information, from O-RU. 27) O-RU controller configures the O-RU operational parameters. 28) Service available. Additional Start-up considerations:
- The synchronisation procedures started in step 8 needs to be completed before service is available. If the O-
RU's power-on S-Plane settings are incompatible with the network's S-Plane design, then at step 16 the O-RU controller should reconfigure the O-RU's S-Plane settings.
- Periodic CU-Plane connectivity check is not considered as the part of start-up. Once configured in start-up
phase, CU-Plane connectivity check can later be performed periodically and at any time in run-time.
- The details of the above start-up procedure are covered in sub-clauses 6.3 to 6.7.
Cross Reference to other clauses:
- The details of 8, 16 and 26. Synchronisation management is described in clause 13.
- The method of 13 and 26 retrieval of O-RU information is described in clause 9.
- The detail of 17. SW management is described in clause 8.
- The detail of 20. C/U-Plane transport connectivity checking between O-DU and O-RU is described in clause 7.
- The detail of 21. Retrieval of the O-RU delay profile and 23. C/U-Plane delay measurements are described in
clause 7.
- The detail of 22. U-plane configuration is described in clause 15, and C/U-Plane transportation configuration is
described in clause 7.
- The detail of 25. Performance management is described in clause 10.
- The detail of 24. Fault management is described in clause 11.
- The method of 27. Control to make service available is described in clause 15.

## 6.2 Management plane transport aspects

### 6.2.1 Transport establishment
This clause provides the M-plane transport establishment scenario between O-RU and O-RU controller(s), such as O- DU and/or SMO. The transport layer address of M-plane is only the target in this clause. Transport aspects of the C plane and U plane are covered in clause 7. Pre-condition:
- Physical interface is connected to a compatible Ethernet port.
- When operating in an environment using call-home, the NETCONF server and NETCONF Client(s) have an
identical NETCONF call home port configured, to ensure the NETCONF client listens on the same port used by the NETCONF Server. Post-condition:
- Transport Layer address(es) for M-plane are known to O-RU and O-RU controllers.
- O-RU is aware of the physical port(s) for M-plane, e.g. if there are multiple ports in the O-RU.
- O-RU is aware of the VLAN(s) to be used for M-Plane, e.g. if VLANs are used in the transport network.
- Then O-RU is ready to establish TCP connection for NETCONF call home and/or for PNF registration.
For the transport establishment, there are the following alternatives, as illustrated in Figure 6.2.1-1: a) Manual transport layer address configuration in O-RU. This configuration contains the addresses for O-RU and NETCONF client(s) and/or the event-collector. The method to manually configure the O-RU is out of scope in the present document. Assuming manual configuration is successful, the NETCONF server shall be able to recover this configured information and use the client-info container in the o-ran-mplane-int.yang model to expose this information to a NETCONF client. b) If IPv4 is supported, DHCP server provides O-RU's transport layer address information together with the identity of the NETCONF client and/or the identity of the event-collector. This identity encodes either the transport layer address or FQDN of the NETCONF client or event-collector. If an FQDN is signalled, the O- RU shall use the DNS server address provided by the DHCP server to recover the IP address corresponding to FQDN of the NETCONF client or event-collector. c) If IPv6 is supported, Stateless Address Auto-Configuration (SLAAC) is used to configure the O-RU's transport address with the DHCPv6 server providing the identity of the NETCONF client and/or event-collector. This identity encodes either the transport layer address or FQDN of the NETCONF client or event-collector. If an FQDN is signalled, the O-RU shall use the DNS server address provided by the DHCPv6 server to recover the IP address corresponding to FQDN of the NETCONF client or event-collector. d) A NETCONF Client with suitable privileges can use the ietf-interfaces YANG module augmented by ietf-ip and o-ran-interfaces YANG modules to configure the O-RU's IPv4 and/or IPv6 ip address and associated subnet/prefix, together with port-reference and optional vlan-id. In this case the origin parameter from ietf- ip.yang module shall be set to "static". Assuming configuration is successful, the NETCONF server shall be able to operate with the configured network layer parameters provided by the NETCONF Client. The NETCONF server shall use the client-info container in the o-ran-mplane-int.yang model to expose NETCONF client information to other NETCONF clients.
> NOTE: A NETCONF client can receive a hint as to whether an O-RU supports a particular IP version by using
the get RPC to recover the list of interfaces supported by the O-RU and using the presence of the augmented ipv4 container or ipv6 container in the o-ran-interfaces module as an indication that a particular IP version is supported. The O-RU uses the o-ran-dhcp.yang model to be able to expose information signalled by the DHCP server. Transport Layer interface related information for M-plane contains at least the physical port number, the hardware address of the Ethernet port, VLAN-ID, local IP address, remote IP address, Default Gateway address and Subnet mask. In the case of option b) and c), the following clauses are used:
- O-RU identification in DHCP messages from O-RU (clause 6.2.2).
- VLAN discovery aspect for M-plane (clause 6.2.3).
- IP address assignment to O-RU (clause 6.2.4).
- Discovery of address information of O-RU controller(s) and/or Event-Collector (clause 6.2.5 and/or clause
6.2.7).

### 6.2.2 O-RU identification in DHCP
The O-RU shall use the DHCP Vendor Class option(s) with the vendor-class-data string within the o-ran-dhcp YANG model or vendor identifying vendor class option with enterprise number and vendor-class-data to identify itself as an O-RU to DHCP servers. When the O-RU supports IPv4, it shall identify itself either 1) use option 60 Vendor Class Identifier, as specified in RFC 2132 [8], OR 2) use option 124 Vendor Identifying Vendor Class Option, as specified in RFC 3925 [9]. When the O-RU supports IPv6, it shall identify itself using the DHCPv6 Vendor Class Option 16. O-RU can identify itself with both O-RAN registered IANA Enterprise Number and 3GPP registered Enterprise Number when using option 124 to retrieve O-RU controller, event controller and CA/RA information in DHCPv4 server. If an O-RU intends to get only O-RAN domain information, O-RU can use opt 60 or opt 124 with only O-RAN enterprise number.
> NOTE: To support DHCP server implementations that are limited in their support for multiple instances of the
Vendor-Specific Information Options, an operator and vendor can agree to use the O-RAN registered IANA Enterprise Number in DHCPv4/DHCPv6 messages to identify itself to signal the CA/RA server information. DHCPv4 Vendor Class Option:
- Option: 60
- Vendor Class Identifier Option 60: string
The format of the vendor class string shall be configured to one of the following three options: 1) "o-ran-ru2/<vendor>", e.g. "o-ran-ru2/vendorA". OR 2) "o-ran-ru2/<vendor>/<product-code>", e.g. "o-ran-ru2/vendorA/ORUAA100". OR 3) "o-ran-ru2/<vendor>/<product-code>/<serial-number>", e.g. "o-ran- ru2/vendorA/ORUAA100/FR1918010111". The Vendor Class Identifier should be selected to avoid the likelihood that different vendors select identical strings, e.g. using a vendor namespace registry or ensuring that the identifier includes the <product-code> information. DHCPv4 Vendor-Identifying Vendor Class Option:
- Option: 124
- Enterprise number: O-RAN-alliance 53148
- Vendor-Class-Data: the format of the string shall follow the rules defined for the DHCPv4 Vendor Class
Option DHCPv6 Vendor Class Option:
- Option: 16
- Enterprise number: O-RAN-alliance 53148
- Vendor-Class-Data: the format of the string shall follow the rules defined for the DHCPv4 Vendor Class
Option The DHCP Server may use the information when selecting an address pool from which to allocate an IP address to the O-RU or when selecting which management plane O-RU Controller information to configure in the O-RU.

### 6.2.3 Management plane VLAN discovery aspects
The O-RU is connected to one or more Ethernet ports. The transport systems may be realized such that these Ethernet ports is/are configured either as an access port, where untagged Ethernet frames are used, or as a trunk port, where multiple VLANs are configured. During start up, the O-RU is typically unable to immediately determine whether its ports are attached to remote transport equipment configured for access or trunk mode operation. Once an O-RU completes its boot-up sequence and Ethernet connectivity is detected on at least one of its Ethernet interfaces, the O-RU starts management plane connection establishment. The O-RU shall determine whether it is connected to an access port or a trunk port. In particular, when connected to a trunk port, the O-RU shall additionally determine the VLAN identity/ies used to support the management plane communication(s). The VLAN(s) used to support management plane communications can be identified by the DHCP server replying to the DHCP DISCOVER message, as described in clause 6.2.5, clause 6.2.7 or clause 6.2.6.1.
> NOTE 1: An O-RU which supports IPv6 can infer that a VLAN is not used to support management plane
communications if it receives an IPv6 Router Advertisement without either the "managed address configuration" or "other configuration" bits set.
> NOTE 2: Versions prior v12.0 of the present document did not define management plane VLAN discovery based
on CA/RA server identity as specified in clause 6.2.6.1. When operating with O-RUs that support an earlier version of this documents, an operator wanting to operate a VLAN that restricts access to production O-RU controllers, e.g. offering sole access to a CA/RA server, can configure a dummy NETCONF client identity to be returned to the O-RU in the DHCP OFFER message. If the O-RU does not have previously configured management plane VLAN information, the O-RU shall attempt to discover DHCP servers on all its Ethernet ports using untagged Ethernet frames. When the O-RU has been previously configured with management plane VLAN information, the O-RU may use this information to optimize its discovery of the VLAN ID(s) used for management plane connectivity. Previously configured management plane VLAN information includes an O-RU that stores the last VLAN(s) used for management plane connectivity, and/or an O-RU which has been previously configured with a range of management plane VLANs by a NETCONF client using the contents of the searchable-mplane-access-vlans-info container that have been stored in reset-persistent memory. The O-RU may use this information to optimize its discovery of the VLAN ID(s) used for management plane connectivity. If the O-RU does not receive a DHCP OFFER from a DHCP server using untagged frames, or previously configured VLANs, the O-RU should attempt to contact a DHCP server using the full range of VLAN IDs (1~4094) on all its Ethernet ports. The individual VLAN search algorithm used by an O-RU should ensure timely activation of the M-Plane while accommodating scenarios whereby there may be an intermittent or temporary connectivity problem between the O-RU and the DHCP server causing no DHCP response to be received on the M-Plane VLAN. The O-RU should repeatedly search using untagged frames and previously configured VLANs whenever it searches across the full range of VLAN IDs. The O-RU controller is able to recommend the maximum interval between repeatedly scanning for M-Plane connectivity on the untagged and configured VLANs using the scan-interval schema node. For example, the default scan-interval is 60 seconds. If the O-RU takes 1 second to scan an individual VLAN, then after scanning every 60 out of the full range of VLAN IDs, the O-RU should repeat the scan for M-Plane connectivity on untagged and configured VLANs.

### 6.2.4 O-RU management plane IP address assignment
Automatic IP address assignment for the O-RU management plane can be achieved using different techniques: 1) IPv4 configuration using DHCPv4, as described in RFC 2131 [10] enables DHCP servers to configure IPv4 network address(es) on the O-RU. An O-RU implementing IPv4 shall support the behaviour specified in clause 6.1 of RFC 4361 [33], using stable DHCPv4 node identifiers in their dhcp-client-identifier option. A network realized with multiple DHCP servers should ensure that their configurations are coordinated to ensure a common default gateway is provisioned in an O-RU which receives multiple DHCPv4 responses, e.g. when received over different interfaces. An O-RU may indicate that it supports configuration of routing information as specified in RFC 3442 [62], enabling static routes to be used by the O-RU when determining how to route uplink packets, e.g. when the O- RU supports multiple interfaces. For O-RUs that support IPv6, both stateful and stateless address assignment procedures are supported: 2) IPv6 Stateless Address Auto-Configuration (SLAAC), RFC 4862 [11] enables the O-RU to generate link-local and global addresses. A network realized with multiple IPv6-enabled routers that support dynamic address assignment should use the extensions to Router Advertisements as specified in RFC 4191 [61] to configure the preference of the default route prefixes learnt by the O-RU using SLAAC. 3) IPv6 State-full address configuration uses DHCPv6, as specified in RFC 8415 [58] and enables DHCP servers to configure IPv6 network address(es) on the O-RU. DHCPv6 is transported using UDP, using the link-local address on the O-RU and a link-scoped multicast address on the DHCP server.
> NOTE 1: The above does not restrict the realisation of the DHCP server, which can be integrated with the O-DU,
can be provided by the transport system, or can be accessed via a relay. O-RUs that support more than one network interface should use a different client-identifier on each interface using a combination of Identity Association Unique Identifier and DHCP Unique Identifier, as specified in clause 6.1 of RFC 4361 [33] for DHCPv4 and clause 11 and 12 of RFC 8415 [58] for DHCPv6.
> NOTE 2: An O-RU Controller can learn the particular client identifier(s) used by an O-RU by using the o-ran-dhcp
YANG model. The DHCP server should operate using static bindings, i.e. ensuring an O-RU identified by a particular client hardware address is re-allocated the same management plane IP address, e.g. after performing an O-RU reset procedure. The O-RU shall bind operation of its NETCONF server to the assigned IP address. If an IPv6 capable O-RU operates using IPv6 Stateless Address Auto-Configuration (SLAAC), the O-RU shall bind operation of its NETCONF server to at least one configured globally unique IPv6 address.

### 6.2.5 O-RU controller discovery
This clause provides how to automatically discover the O-RU Controller address(es). O-RUs that have obtained their IPv6 addresses by stateless address auto-configuration, shall use stateless DHCPv6 as specified in RFC 8415 [58], to obtain management plane configuration information. Other O-RUs operating using stateful IPv4 or IPv6 address allocations shall obtain management plane configuration information during IP address allocation. Other O-RUs which have had their IP address(es) manually configured, shall also have their O-RU Controller(s) manually configured. O-RAN defined vendor specific option shall be used to signal all NETCONF client information to the O-RU using option 43 or option 125 for DHCPv4 and option 17 for DHCPv6. The O-RU shall request this option. Multiple instances of NETCONF client information may be signalled, encoded as a sequence of type/length/value fields. The O- RU shall consider these DHCP options as concatenation-requiring-options, as specified in RFC 3396 [78].
> NOTE: Previous versions of the present document (prior to v15.0) did not require support of RFC3396 [78]. For
previous versions, the support for RFC3396 [78] can be agreed between an operator and vendor. The definition of the types used within the DHCPv4 option 43, option 125/DHCPv6 Option 17 depends on the vendor- class option reported by the O-RU in its DHCP messages. When a legacy O-RU reports its vendor-class using the "o-ran-ru" prefix, the following types are defined:
- Type: 0x01 - O-RU Controller IP Address
- Type: 0x02 - O-RU Controller Fully Qualified Domain Name
When the O-RU reports its vendor-class using the "o-ran-ru2" prefix, the following types are defined:
- Type: 0x81 - O-RU Controller IP Address
- Type: 0x82 - O-RU Controller Fully Qualified Domain Name
- Type: 0x86 - O-RU Call home protocol
In all cases, the Type is followed by the length, which is the hexadecimal encoding of length of value field in octets, and the Value. When Type corresponds to an O-RU Controller IP Address, the value encodes IPv4 address(es) in hexadecimal format. For example, a single server with IPv4 address 198.185.159.144 is encoded in an option 43 or option 125 TLV as
- Type 0x81 (or x01 for legacy)
- Length: 0x04
- Value: C6 B9 9F 90
When Type corresponds to an O-RU Controller Fully Qualified Domain Name, this encodes the string representation of domain name, using ACSII encoding (i.e. following for encoding used for the domain name in the Host Name DHCP Option 12). For example, a server with FQDN "controller.operator.com" is encoded in an option 43 or option 125 TLV as:
- Type 0x82 (or x02 for legacy)
- Length: 0x17
- Value: 63 6F 6E 74 72 6F 6C 6C 65 72 2E 6F 70 65 72 61 74 6F 72 2E 63 6F 6D
The format of the DHCPv6 option 17 follows the format of the DHCPv4 encoding, with the additional inclusion of an Enterprise Number prior to the TLV option data. The IANA allocated private enterprise number to be used with DHCPv6 option 17 is 53148. When Type corresponds to the call home protocol, the value encodes whether an O-RU shall call home using NETCONF/SSH or NETCONF/TLS using the IANA defined ports as specified in clause 6 of RFC 8071 [15]. If no call home protocol type is provided, the O-RU shall use NETCONF/SSH. The format is encoded as follows:
- Value 00 - O-RU shall attempt to call home using NETCONF/SSH
- Value 01 - O-RU shall attempt to call home using NETCONF/TLS
For example, a DHCP server wanting to trigger the call home procedure using NETCONF/TLS encodes the option 43 or option 125 TLV as
- Type: 0x86
- Length: 0x01
- Value: 01
> NOTE: A previous version of the present document defined the use of OPTION_V4_SZTP_REDIRECT and
OPTION_V6_SZTP_REDIRECT DHCP options to allow an O-RU to recover NETCONF Client information. In order to ensure backwards compatibility with equipment supporting earlier versions of the present document, an operator and vendor can agree to continue to use OPTION_V4_SZTP_REDIRECT and/or OPTION_V6_SZTP_REDIRECT DHCP options to recover NETCONF Client information.

### 6.2.6 Certificate handling

#### 6.2.6.0 Trust anchor provisioning
Before an O-RU can establish a mutual TLS connection with a signalling peer, e.g. with an O-RU Controller, an O-RU needs to be able to trace the peer's certificate path to a valid trust anchor. To validate against a trust anchor, the O-RU shall be able to be provisioned with one or more trust anchor certificates. The O-RU shall ensure that all trust anchor certificates are stored in reset persistent memory and protected from unauthorised external modification. The O-RU shall be able to be provisioned with new trust anchors. Provisioning of trust anchors is done using one of the options in clause 5.3.11 in [83] or through configuration in ietf-truststore. The O-RU shall be able to have an existing trust anchor replaced, e.g. because it has expired. The O-RU should support ietf-truststore YANG model to enable an O-RU Controller to manage (read, add, delete) the list of provisioned trust anchors and associated public keys.
> NOTE 1: If the O-RU is configured to perform certificate enrolment, the CMPv2 Initialization Response message
allows the discovered CA/RA server to provision a trust anchor.
> NOTE 2: The CA/RA Server identity is configured by the DHCP server using techniques described in clause
6.2.6.1. The DHCP server is not considered by the O-RU as a trusted source of security bootstrapping data. When shipped, an O-RU only trusts information that is signed or encrypted using a certificate chain leading to a pre- loaded trust anchor.

#### 6.2.6.1 Certificate enrolment
An O-RU shall support certificate enrolment using CMPv2. 3GPP TS 32.509 [52] specifies how the O-RU supporting certificate enrolment over IPv4 can be configured with the IP address or FQDN of one or more Certification Authority (CA/RA) servers using DHCP Option 43 as specified in clause 4.2.2 of 3GPP TS 32.509 [52]. The DHCP Options specified in 3GPP 32.509 [52] do not specify how to signal a CA/RA server identity using DHCPv6. Hence, O-RU certificate enrolment using CMPv2 over IPv6 shall support the signalling of vendor specific options using DHCPv6 option 17. The format of the DHCPv6 option 17 follows the format of the DHCPv4 encoding as specified in clause 4.2.2 of 3GPP TS 32.509 [52], with the additional inclusion of an Enterprise Number prior to the TLV option data. The IANA allocated private enterprise number to be used with DHCPv6 option 17 shall be 53148 (as allocated by IANA to O-RAN Alliance). 3GPP has since published 3GPP TS 28.316 [72] which now specifies how to signal a CA/RA server identity with DHCPv6 option 17 messages using the 3GPP registered IANA Enterprise Number (10415). The DHCP Options defined in [52] are a subset of those defined in [72]. An operator and vendor can agree to use the 3GPP registered IANA Enterprise Number in DHCPv6 messages that signal the CA/RA server information instead of the O-RAN registered IANA Enterprise Number. If an O-RU has a point-to-point connection between the O-RU and the O-DU, or if an O-RU has a bridged connection between the O-RU and the O-DU and the O-DU is operating as the default gateway to provide connectivity between the O-RU and a remote CA/RA server, when the O-RU is required to perform certificate enrolment using CMPv2, the O- DU shall provide means for the O-RU to access the operator CA/RA for the O-RU certificate enrolment at the IP address conveyed as described above. If the FQDN option is used instead, the O-DU shall provide means for the O-RU to access an operator DNS server in addition. Examples of providing such access include:
- An IP forwarding function within the O-DU providing access to the operators PKI.
- A Network Address Translation function within the O-DU providing access to the operators PKI.
- A Registration Authority (RA) function accessible by the O-DU (in the same domain), which is part of the
operator PKI. An O-RU shall report any discovered multi-vendor plug-and-play servers using the o-ran-dhcp YANG model.

#### 6.2.6.2 CMPv2 based certificate enrolment
This clause covers the use case where an O-RU is configured with the identity of a CMPv2 capable CA/RA server that the operator uses for certificate enrolment. The O-RU shall attempt to enrol in the operator-PKI and may be issued an operator-signed certificate. The Initialization Request (IR) message used to signal the initial certificate enrolment shall be signed using the private key of the manufacturer installed certificate.
> NOTE: The pre-conditions for certificate enrolment described in clause 5.5 of [i.7] includes the condition that the
vendor’s root certificate is pre-provisioned in the CA/RA server. Clause 9 of 3GPP TS 33.310 [51] specifies the use of CMPv2 used by base stations to obtain an operator-signed certificate using a secured communication based on the vendor-signed certificate in the base station and a vendor root certificate pre-installed in the CA/RA server. While the approach has been defined for provisioning certificates for use in either IPSec or TLS, the same techniques defined for provisioning TLS certificates are specified to be re-used here to provision certificates for use in securing the SSHv2 based M-Plane connection as specified in RFC 6187 [31]. Hence, the TLS client CA issues certificates to NETCONF clients, irrespective of whether NETCONF is secured using TLS or SSHv2. Similarly, the TLS server CA issues certificates to NETCONF servers, irrespective of whether NETCONF is secured using TLS or SSHv2. The handling of certificates, including certificate profiles, shall follow the rules defined in 3GPP TS 33.310 for TLS CA certificates. In addition:
- when an O-RU has not been provided with information regarding how to generate a certificate signing request,
e.g. when the O-RU sends an Initialization Request message to signal the initial certificate enrolment, the O- RU shall generate the certificate signing request populating the Subject Distinguished Name field with a string that includes the O-RU manufacturer's name, model and serial number. There are various characters that may not be permissible in the Subject Distinguished Name Field, e.g. ":" (colon, hexadecimal character 0x34), "." (period, hexadecimal character 0x2E), "_" (underscore, hexadecimal character 0x5F), "#" (hash, hexadecimal 0x23), "£" (pound, hexadecimal 0xa3), "*" (asterisk, hexadecimal 0x2a) or """ (double quote, hexadecimal 0x22). Manufacturers that include such characters in their name, model and/or serial number should ensure such characters are removed before including in the Subject Distinguished Name Field.
- in other cases, e.g. when the O-RU receives csr-info in an action statement <generate-csr> as specified in
clause 6.2.6.4.3, the O-RU shall generate the certificate signing request using the provided information. When transferring messages to the CA/RA server, the O-RU shall use the "port number of the CA/RA server" and the "path to the CA/RA directory" as signalled using the DHCP options as specified in clause 4.2.2 of 3GPP TS 32.509 [52]. If no DHCP based configuration is received by an O-RU, the O-RU shall use the default port 443 and default directory "/pkix/". The CA/RA server shall include the trust anchor for the operator issued certificate and the appropriate certificate chains in the initialization response message. The O-RU shall store the operator issued certificate and corresponding certificate chain in reset persistent memory. When configured to operate with TLS, an O-RU that has a valid certificate issued by an operator PKI shall use this certificate to establish a mutually authenticated TLS connection for secure signalling with its O-RU Controller(s).

#### 6.2.6.3 Operation with vendor-signed certificates
All O-RUs should be provisioned with a unique device vendor-signed certificate and its entire certificate chain up to the root. If the DHCP response does not contain CA/RA address information to allow certificate enrolment for O-RUs, or if an O-RU fails to enrol in an operator-PKI, as specified in clause 6.2.6.2, or the certificate issued during previous enrolment has expired, an O-RU configured to operate with TLS may use its vendor-signed certificate for setting up mTLS connections to its O-RU Controller(s), for example using the procedures specified in clause 6.2.5 to call home using NETCONF/TLS. Operators are then recommended to agree with the vendor on the life cycle management of these vendor-signed certificates, but life cycle management of Vendor Certificates is out of scope for the present document.
> NOTE: To achieve mTLS connections, the O-RU needs to be provided with necessary trust anchors from the
operator, either through configuration in ietf-truststore YANG model, or using one of the options in clause 5.3.11 in [83].

#### 6.2.6.4 Certificate lifecycle management

##### 6.2.6.4.1 Introduction
An O-RU indicates its support for O-RAN defined certificate lifecycle management by including the ietf-keystore in its YANG library. Clause 6.2.6.4 applies to those O-RUs that support O-RAN defined certificate lifecycle management. The O-RU shall support the life cycle management of certificates as specified in 3GPP TS 33.310 [51] clause 7.2, including the renewal of certificates using CMPv2 before their expiry. The O-RU takes the role of a network element (NE) when following this clause. The O-RU shall support configurations for setting the policy for certificates re-issuance using the cert-lcm-policy leaf defined in o-ran-certificates.yang. The defined policies are:
- REISSUE_ON_DEMAND
When configured with a cert-lcm-policy set to REISSUE_ON_DEMAND, the O-RU shall not autonomously initiate certificate re-issuance or re-key procedure. Instead, the O-RU Controller shall be responsible for triggering the initiation of the CMPv2 Certificate Request/Response procedure, as specified in clause 6.2.6.4.3
> NOTE: When the certificates are re-issued, trust anchors can also be updated through provisioning as specified in
clause 6.2.6.0.

##### 6.2.6.4.2 Void
> NOTE: This section is kept void for specifying autonomous rekeying or certificate re-issuance procedure from O-
RU. These are not defined in the present document.

##### 6.2.6.4.3 On-demand certificate re-issuance
An O-RU controller wanting to trigger the re-issuance of a certificate to the O-RU shall configure the cert-lcm-policy to REISSUE_ON_DEMAND. The O-RU controller can trigger the issuance of a certificate by using the action statement <generate-csr> defined in RFC 9640 [92]. After having responded with a rpc-reply <ok/>, an O-RU receiving the <generate-csr> shall recover the SubjectPublicKeyInfo from the csr-info and trigger the generation of a new key pair. After a new key pair has been generated, the O-RU shall use the csr-info to create a certificate signing request which it shall use in a CMPv2 certificate request exchange with the CA/RA server. The procedure is shown in

##### 6.2.6.4.4 Certificate Life Cycle Notifications
The O-RU shall support configurations for "advance certificate about to expire notification timer" for different severities. The O-RU shall notify all the O-RU controller(s) that have subscribed to receive fault ID 39 specified in clause A.1 as follows:
- With severity as minor minor-alarm-advance-time prior to expiry [units days, default: 30];
- With severity as major major-alarm-advance-time prior to expiry [units days, default: 10]; and
- With severity as critical critical-alarm-advance-time prior to expiry [units days, default: 2].
The O-RU shall notify the subscribing O-RU controller(s) of certificate expiry using fault ID 40 as specified in clause A.1. After the O-RU successfully completes the CMPv2 process for certificate issuance, it shall notify all the subscribing O- RU controller(s) by sending a certificate-lcm notification. If the triggered certificate issuance process fails, the O-RU shall notify all the subscribing O-RU controller(s) using faults specified in clause A.1.

### 6.2.7 Event-Collector discovery
This clause describes how an O-RU automatically discovers the Event-Collector to which it shall send its pnfRegistration notification. The support by an O-RU of PNF Registration to a discovered Event-Collector is optional and hence this clause only applies to those O-RUs that support this optional capability. O-RUs that have obtained their IPv6 addresses by stateless address auto-configuration, shall use stateless DHCPv6, as specified in RFC 8415 [58], to obtain Event-Collector information. Other O-RUs operating using stateful IPv4 or IPv6 address allocations shall obtain Event-Collector information during IP address allocation. Other O-RUs which have had their IP address(es) manually configured, shall also have their Event-Collector(s) and Event-Collector Notification Format manually configured. The O-RU supporting PNF Registration shall be able to recover Event-Collector information using O-RAN defined vendor specific option to signal Event-Collector information to the O-RU using option 43 or option 125 for DHCPv4 and option 17 for DHCPv6. To achieve that, the O-RU shall request the option 43 or option 125 for DHCPv4 and option for DHCPv6 as defined in clause 6.2.5. If the network provides an Event-Collector for the O-RU to send its pnfRegistration notification to, a DHCPv4 server shall respond with option 43 or option 125 if so requested, and a DHCPv6 server shall respond with option 17 if so requested. The definition of the types used within the DHCPv4 option 43 or option 125/DHCPv6 Option 17 are as follows:
- Type: 0x83 – Event-Collector IP Address
- Type: 0x84 – Event-Collector Fully Qualified Domain Name
- Type: 0x85 – Event-Collector Notification Format
In this version of the present document, the operation of an O-RU when receiving multiple instances of the Event- Collector IP Address and/or Event-Collector FQDN information is not defined. In all cases, the Type is followed by the length, which is the hexadecimal encoding of length of value field in octets, and the Value. When Type corresponds to an Event-Collector IP Address, the value encodes IPv4 address(es) in hexadecimal format. For example, an Event-Collector with IPv4 address 198.185.159.144 is encoded in an option 43 or option 125 TLV as:
- Type 0x83
- Length: 0x04
- Value: C6 B9 9F 90
When Type corresponds to an Event-Collector Fully Qualified Domain Name, this encodes the string representation of domain name, using ACSII encoding (i.e. following for encoding used for the domain name in the Host Name DHCP Option 12). For example, a server with FQDN "collector.operator.com" is encoded in an option 43 or option 125 TLV as:
- Type 0x84
- Length: 0x17
- Value: 63 6F 6C 6C 65 63 74 6F 72 2E 6F 70 65 72 61 74 6F 72 2E 63 6F 6D
In this version of the present document, the operation of an O-RU when receiving an Event-Collector FQDN that is subsequently resolved by the O-RU to more than one IP address (i.e. returning multiple Address records) is not defined. The format of the DHCPv6 option 17 shall follow the format of the DHCPv4 encoding, with the additional inclusion of an Enterprise Number prior to the TLV option data. The IANA allocated private enterprise number to be used with DHCPv6 option 17 is 53148. When Type corresponds to an Event-Collector Notification Format, the value shall encode the format the Event- Collector expects to receive asynchronous notifications. In the present document, only a single format is defined: Value 00 - Event-Collector expects the notification to be signalled using the format as specified in the ONAP VES event listener specification [i.2]. For example, an Event-Collector expecting the pnfRegistration notification to be signalled using the ONAP defined format is encoded in the option 43 or option 125 TLV as:
- Type 0x85
- Length: 0x01
- Value: 00

### 6.2.8 Static routing of IP traffic
An O-RU may support static routing. This is an optional capability, and this clause only applies to those O-RUs that support static routing. An O-RU that supports IPv4 shall support configuration of routing information as specified in RFC 3442 [62] and shall indicate its support of RFC 3442 using the rfc3442-supported leaf specified in o-ran-interfaces YANG model. An O- RU that supports IPv6 shall support configuration of default router preferences and more-specific routes as specified in RFC 4191 [90] and shall indicate its support of RFC 4191 using the rfc4191-supported leaf specified in o-ran- interfaces YANG model.

## 6.3 NETCONF call home to O-RU controller(s)
The O-RU aims to have NETCONF sessions with all of the call home O-RU Controller(s), either discovered using the DHCP options defined in clause 6.2.5, provisioned by an existing NETCONF client, or statically configured. An O-RU controller may attempt to autonomously initiate a NETCONF session with the O-RU, e.g. triggered by the pnfRegistration procedure. In order to support NETCONF clients corresponding to call home O-RU Controllers that either do not attempt to initiate a NETCONF session with the O-RU, or are prevented from doing so, e.g. because of Network Address Translation limitations, the O-RU shall call home to all call home O-RU Controller identities with which it does not already have an active NETCONF session. When the O-RU discovers, or is provisioned with, a call home O-RU Controller identity represented as an FQDN, the O-RU shall use DNS to resolve the IP address(es) of the FQDN identity. If as result of the resolution of the O-RU Controller FQDN to IP address, an O-RU receives multiple A and/or AAAA records, the O-RU should cycle through the received IP addresses in the A and/or AAAA records until it is able to establish a NETCONF session with a particular O-RU Controller identity. The O-RU should report the O-RU controller IP address used in the established NETCONF session in the client-info container in the o-ran-mplane-int YANG model. As a consequence, the O-RU is expected to have a single M-Plane session established per each O-RU controller's FQDN, regardless how many A/AAAA records were returned by the DNS server for each O-RU Controller FQDN. An O-RU that supports more than one network interface shall be able to perform O-RU Controller discovery on each of its network interfaces. If an O-RU recovers identical O-RU controller identity information on multiple network interfaces, then it should select which one out of the multiple interfaces to use for its call home operation.
> NOTE 1: The operation of an O-RU that discovers different O-RU Controller identities on separate network
interfaces is not currently defined in the present document. If the O-RU is unable to establish a NETCONF session with some of the call home O-RU Controller identities, the O- RU shall use the re-call-home-no-ssh-timer to repeatedly re-perform the call home procedure to all call home O-RU Controller identities with which the O-RU does not have an established NETCONF session, cycling through the A and/or AAAA records until it is able to establish a NETCONF session with a particular call home O-RU Controller identity. The same value of timer shall be used, irrespective of whether SSH or TLS is being used to transport the NETCONF session.
> NOTE 2: The O-RU can cache the returned A/AAAA records for a period of time according to the DNS time to
live. The setting of the DNS time to live is an operator name server configuration parameter. As an example, if an operator knows in advance of a change in the IP address(es) used by its O-RU controller(s), the operator can configure the name server with a minimum time to live value to ensure O- RUs request the new IP address(es) in a timely fashion. Name server configuration is outside the scope of the present document. If the O-RU is unable to trigger the establishment of NETCONF session with at least one call home O-RU Controller after having repeated the call home procedure a total of max-call-home-attempts per O-RU Controller, then the O-RU should perform an autonomous reset. The O-RU shall call home as specified in clause 4 of RFC 8071 [15] whereby the O-RU (NETCONF Server) initiates a TCP connection to the NETCONF client. When calling home to the NETCONF clients in the container client-info, O- RU shall use the port signalled using the RFC 8572 [14] DHCP option or manually configured during installation, and when calling home to the NETCONF clients in the container configured-client-info, O-RU shall use the port configured by other NETCONF Client. If no port was signalled or manually configured in the container client-info, or not configured in the container configured-client-info, O-RU shall use the port configured in call-home-ssh-port to indicate that the O-RU uses SSHv2 to secure the NETCONF connection and use the port configured in call-home-tls- port to indicate that the O-RU uses TLS to secure the NETCONF connection. If call-home-ssh-port does not exist, the O-RU shall use the IANA-assigned port 4334 to indicate that the O-RU uses SSHv2 to secure the NETCONF connection, and if call-home-tls-port does not exist, the O-RU shall use the IANA-assigned port 4335 to indicate that the O-RU uses TLS to secure the NETCONF connection. As illustrated in Figure 6.3-1, when the NETCONF client accepts a TCP connection on the allocated port, it shall initiate an SSH session/TLS connection with the NETCONF Server. Using this SSH session/TLS connection, the NETCONF client shall initiate a NETCONF session. The O-RU shall ensure that a persistent connection to all call-home O-RU controllers is maintained by actively testing the aliveness of the connection. The O-RU should support TLS heartbeat/SSH using the keep-alive mechanism as specified in clause 4.1 of RFC 8071 [15] and may support TCP keep-alive. The establishment of NETCONF client privileges is covered in clause 6.5.

## 6.4 NETCONF connection establishment

### 6.4.0 General
The authentication mechanism and protocol to use are described in Table 5.4.1-1. The identity of the NETCONF server (O-RU) shall be verified and authenticated by the NETCONF client according to local policy for authentication described in Table 5.4.1-1 before password-based authentication data or any configuration or state data is sent to or received from the NETCONF server. When using SSHv2, public key-based host authentication shall be used for authenticating the server (RFC 4253 [7]) by the clients. In addition, server authentication based on X.509 certificates may also be provided as specified in RFC 6187 [31]. When using TLS, X.509 certificate-based authentication shall be used for mutual authentication between the NETCONF client and NETCONF server.
> NOTE: SSHv2 based public key-based host authentication requires that the SSH server (O-RU) public keys are
provisioned in the NETCONF client (e.g. O-DU and/or SMO). As an alternative, RFC 4251 [79] mentions that "a possible strategy is to only accept a host key without checking the first time a host is connected, save the key in a local database, and compare against that key on all future connections to that host. ". This option simplifies the key management procedure as it does not require to pre-populate them in O-DU/SMO (SSH client) but obviously at the price of degraded security, therefore the support of this option shall be configurable and left to operator's choice. In case the O-RU is not configured to perform certificate enrolment, or enrolment failed the O-RU may use its unique device vendor-signed certificate. The first NETCONF session during start-up installation using the default NETCONF account will in this case be authenticated by the O-RU controller but not by the O-RU, unless the O-RU has been provisioned with trust anchors using one of the options in clause 5.3.11 in [83]. If an O-RU is not configured with a valid, non-manufacturer trust anchor, the O-RU may skip the verification of the client certificate exchanged during the mTLS handshake.

### 6.4.1 NETCONF security
As specified in clause 5.4, this version of the O-RU Management Plane Specification uses TLS 1.2, TLS 1.3, or SSHv2 for mutual authentication between the NETCONF server (O-RU) and the NETCONF client (O-DU or SMO). If multiple NETCONF sessions are established to an O-RU, those sessions shall be established over separate SSH tunnels/TLS connections.

### 6.4.2 NETCONF authentication
The authentication mechanism and protocol to use are described in clause 5.4. This version of the O-RU Management Plane Specification supports SSHv2 using password authentication method for SSHv2 as specified in clause 8 of RFC 4252 [6] and client authentication based on X.509 certificates as specified in RFC 6187 [31], and TLS 1.2, or TLS 1.3, using X.509 certificate-based authentication. The identity of the NETCONF server (O-RU) shall be verified and authenticated by the NETCONF client (O-DU or SMO) according to local policy for authentication described in Table 5.4.1-1 before authentication data or any configuration or state data is sent to or received from the server. The identity of the NETCONF client (O-DU or SMO) shall be verified and authenticated by the NETCONF server (O- RU) according to local policy for authentication described in Table 5.4.1-1 to ensure that the incoming NETCONF client request is legitimate before any configuration or state data is sent to or received from the NETCONF client. The server shall also perform proper authorisation of the client before accepting any request. If authentication is based on X.509 certificates, for the purposes of user authentication, the mapping between certificates and user-name is provided by the subjectAltName field of the X.509 certificate, which means that the user name is coded in the subjectAltName. The username is determined from the subjectAltName using the rules as specified in RFC 7589 [41]. For the purposes of NETCONF server authentication, RFC 7589 [41] specifies server identity as specified in clause 4 of RFC 9525 [84]. Upon initial system initialisation, the O-RU is configured with a default account. The specific details of the default account are to be agreed between operator and vendor. An example of a default user account for account-type PASSWORD is one with username "oranuser". An example of a default user account for account-type CERTIFICATE is map type "san-rfc822-name" with an rfc822-name of "oranuser@o-ran.org". An example of a default user account for account-type SSHPUBLICKEY is "oranuser". The default account may be of account-type PASSWORD, in which case a default password needs to be defined and configured in the O-RU, for example "o-ran-password". The default account may be of account-type SSHPUBLICKEY, in which case the default public key and associated algorithm need to be configured in the O-RU. As the default account may be operator specific, this may require that the O-RU provides facilities to configure securely this default account and cert-to-name mapping list at installation time (i.e. before the O-RU is connected to the O-RU Controller).
> NOTE: The account-type SSHPUBLICKEY was first defined in v16.01 of the present document. The support for
a default account type SSHPUBLICKEY can be agreed between operator and vendor, depending upon O- RU controller capabilities. If user authentication is based on X.509v3 certificate during O-RU plug and play, to support zero touch for the first NETCONF connection, the O-RU shall support the default mapping between certificate and default NETCONF account which maps any authenticated X.509 v3 certificate to this default O-RAN account. The trust anchor for O-RU shall be provisioned automatically with online CA server during O-RU Plug and Play, and it shall be same as the trust anchor of the O-RU Controller(s), thus avoiding the need for manual configuration of the peer trust anchor for O-RU. The default account is a member of the "sudo" privilege group (see clause 6.5 for details of groups/privileges) as it is intended to be used to create other accounts, as specified in clause 6.4.3. As the default account credential may be common across different deployments of a vendor's equipment, it is strongly recommended to only use the default account to create other operator specific user accounts on the O-RU. Clause 6.4.3.1 specifies the conditions whereby the creation of a NETCONF server account triggers the automatic disabling of the default account. The operator and vendor shall agree how the default account can be determined by a NETCONF client operating in a multi-vendor O-RU environment based on the SSH response message sent by the O-RU. It is recommended that the vendor and operator agree on a particular format of the "SSH-protoversion-softwareversion SP comments CR LF" identification string, as defined in RFC 4253 [7] clause 4.2, used by the SSH Server in the O-RU to identify the O-RU vendor and consequently the default account to be used by the NETCONF client. Upon initial system initialisation, the NETCONF client can authenticate itself to the O-RU using SSH Authentication either with the agreed default username and password or with simple public key. If authentication based on X.509 certificates according to [31] is supported by SSH and TLS client and server, the certificates need to be installed at initial system initialisation, or can be obtained through certificate enrolment with operator's PKI (certificate enrolment as defined by 3GPP with CMPv2 protocol between the NE and the operator's CA). After having enrolled in an Operator PKI, when establishing a new TLS session using X.509 certificate-based authentication, the O-RU shall select a valid certificate issued by the operator PKI with the longest time to its expiration.

### 6.4.3 User account provisioning

#### 6.4.3.1 General
The NETCONF client with suitable privileges may provision user accounts on the O-RU, including the accounts (users) name, password, group (see clause 6.5 for details of groups/privileges) and whether a particular account is enabled or disabled. The provisioning of new accounts is typically performed once during pre-staging, as described in step 14 of
- The name for the user is a string which should be between 3-32 characters. For account-type PASSWORD,
the first character should be a lowercase letter. The remaining characters should be lowercase letters or numbers. For account-type CERTIFICATE or SSHPUBLICKEY, the characters should be lowercase letters, numbers, periods (ASCII code 0x2E) or @ sign (ASCII code 0x40).
- The account-type is an enumeration, indicating authentication method such as password, certificate, or simple
public key.
- The password is a string between 8-128 characters. Allowed characters in the password field include
lowercase and uppercase letters, numbers and the special characters: ! $ % ^ ( ) _ + ~ { } [ ] . The password leaf is present only for those user accounts associated with password-based authentication.
- Whether an account is enabled. The YANG model ensures that at least one user account is always enabled on
the O-RU.
- When the O-RU supports the SHARED-ORU-MULTI-OPERATOR feature, the user account may be
associated with zero or more Shared Resource Operator IDs (sro-id). Clause 19 describes the operation of the SHARED-ORU-MULTI-OPERATOR feature in more detail. When an sro-id is configured with a user account with "carrier" group/role privileges, the multi-operator shared O-RU feature is enabled. The new account information (user name, password, optional sro-id, account-type and whether the account is enabled) shall be stored in reset-persistent memory in O-RU. Each account name in o-ran-usermgmt YANG model is identical to the user-name used in ietf-netconf-acm YANG model. User account provisioning shall include using the ietf-netconf-acm module to define which groups are associated with a particular user-name (see clause 6.5 for details of groups/privileges). The definition of a privilege the group name "sudo" is intended to be used when configured as a NACM group for a user-name associated with the NECTONF client of a hierarchical O-DU. Conversely, the group name "hybrid-odu" is intended to be used when configured as a NACM group for a user-name associated with the NECTONF client of a hybrid O-DU. For client authentication based on certificate or Simple Public Key, no password needs to be provisioned. For certificate based authentication, at time of SSH or TLS connection, user's authorisation is done based on the X.509 certificate's SubjectAltName field that codes the associated account's name. When a NETCONF client using the default account is used to successfully commit the configuration for another user account with account privileges "sudo", the NETCONF client should close existing NETCONF session as described in clause 6.8. Then, the O-RU disables the default account and default account stays disabled over the resets. The default account becomes enabled when the O-RU is reset to the factory default software by following the procedures defined in clause 8.8. Any other way to enable the default account is not precluded as O-RU vendor implementation matter.
> NOTE 1: Configuring a new user account with "sudo" privileges enables that account to have full permissions over
the o-ran-usermgmt.yang model which then permits that account to create other user accounts on the O- RU's NETCONF server. The security principle defined in this clause shall follow those defined for the default account and default mapping, i.e. the O-RU Controller shall create a new mapping.
> NOTE 2: Depending on the EE/CA certificate of the O-RU Controller, the map type can still be specified but with
specific fingerprint of the EE/CA certificate or based on SubjectAltName of EE/CA certificate as specified in clause 6.4.2.

#### 6.4.3.2 Certificates to NETCONF usernames mapping list provisioning
The O-RU controller with suitable privileges may provision list cert-to-name to define how certificates are mapped to NETCONF usernames at the O-RU using o-ran-certificates.yang. This list shall be stored in reset persistent memory. Each entry of the mapping list contains a certificate fingerprint, a map-type and optional username.
- The certificate fingerprint is a digest of NETCONF client end-entry (EE) certificate or a digest of a trusted
certificate authority (CA) which is part of the CA certificate chain of the NETCONF client EE certificate in X.509 binary format. From security consideration, it is recommended to use EE certificate fingerprint instead of CA certificate fingerprint.
- The map-type indicates how the NETCONF username associated with the certificate should be determined. O-
RU shall support map-types A and B defined in section 7 of RFC 7589 [41]. Support for other map-types is optional. Support for map-type F, "common-name", is deprecated.
- The username name is a NETCONF account's name which is specified only when map-type is 'specified'.
In case a X.509v3 certificate that is used for client authentication is updated e.g. due to it being close to expiry, the O- RU controller shall update the X.509v3 certificate and if necessary re-provision the cert-to-name entry to O-RU Configuration using o-ran-certificates.yang.

## 6.5 NETCONF access control
This clause defines the access control for NETCONF clients. Its motivation is that when multiple NETCONF clients (users) are defined, the NETCONF access control mechanism enables the NETCONF server to limit some operations for one client but allow full access for another client. In particular, for hybrid access configuration as introduced in clause 5, this allows the privileges associated with the NETCONF client in the hybrid O-DU to be distinct and different from the privileges associated with the NETCONF client in the SMO. In order to support interoperable access control management, the NETCONF Server shall use the IETF NETCONF Access Control Model as specified in RFC 8341 [64]. Currently seven access control groups corresponding to different NETCONF client roles are defined and can be mapped to the user-name for a NETCONF session: "sudo", "smo", "hybrid-odu", "carrier", "nms", "fm-pm", and "swm". Table 6.5-1 maps the group/role name to different privileges. Privileges are defined per namespace for read "R", write "W" and execute "X" where "X" indicates access privilege to use RPC operations or to subscribe to Notifications. The NACM module is used to store the association between the groups and user-names and enables a user-name to be associated with multiple different groups. The configuration of the NACM module shall be stored in reset-persistent memory in O- RU. During access control procedure, groups associated to the user are determined based on user-name that an O-RU controller provided or derived from O-RU controller's certificate. The user's access privileges are the combination (union) of the privileges associated with those groups. Refer to Table 6.5-1 for privilege details. O-RU shall support access control enforcement procedure defined in RFC 8341 [64] clause 3.4. The NETCONF client in the hybrid O-DU should be associated with the "hybrid-odu" privilege group and the NETCONF client in the SMO should be associated with the "smo" privilege group.

# A NECTONF client can perform read operations on the o-ran-usermgmt and ietf-netconf-acm YANG models to determine the group privileges its NETCONF account has been granted.
When operating with a NETCONF client with user name user-list entry containing a configured sro-id and with "carrier" privileges, e.g. a client operated by a Shared Resource Operator, a Multi-Operator O-RU shall have its read, write and execute privileges for certain models further refined based on the sro-id associated with the name of the NETCONF client as configured using the o-ran-usermgmt YANG model. Further details are described in clause 19. Module Rules sudo nms fm-pm swm smo hybrid- carrier odu "urn:o-ran:supervision:x.y" RWX --- --- --- RW- RWX R-X (note 4) "urn:o-ran:hardware:x.y" RWX RW- --- --- RWX R-- R-- "urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf- RWX RWX R-X --- RWX R-X R-X hardware" "urn:o-ran:user-mgmt:x.y" RWX --X --X --X RWX RWX --X (note 1) (note 8) (note 8) (note 8) (note 1) (note 1) (notes 7 and 8) "urn:o-ran:fm: x.y " R-X R-X R-X --- R-X R-X R-X "urn:o-ran:fan: x.y " R-- R-- R-- --- R-- R-- R-- "urn:o-ran:sync: x.y " RWX RWX R-- --- RWX R-X R-X "urn:o-ran:delay: x.y " RW- R-- R-- --- R-- RW- R-- "urn:o-ran:module-cap: x.y " RW- R-- R-- --- R-- RW- R-- "urn:o-ran:udpecho: x.y " RW- R-- --- --- RW- R-- R-- "urn:o-ran:operations: x.y " RWX RW- R-- --- RWX RWX R-X (note 10) "urn:o-ran:uplane-conf: x.y " RWX RWX R-- --- R-- RWX RWX (note 6) "urn:o-ran:beamforming: x.y" R-X R-X R-- --- R-- R-X R-- "urn:o-ran:lbm: x.y " RW- RW- R-- --- RW- R-- R-- "urn:o-ran:software-management: x.y " R-X R-X R-- R-X R-X R-- R-- "urn:o-ran:file-management: x.y " R-X R-X R-X --- R-X --- --- " urn:o-ran:message5: x.y " RW- R-- R-- --- R-- RW- R— (note 6) "urn:o-ran:performance-management: RWX RWX RWX --- RWX R-X R-X x.y " (note 6) "urn:o-ran:transceiver: x.y " RW- RW- R-- --- RW- R-- R-- "urn:o-ran:externalio: x.y " RWX RWX --- --- RWX R-- R-- "urn:o-ran:ald-port: x.y " RWX RWX --- --- RWX RWX --- (note 3) "urn:o-ran:interfaces: x.y " RWX RWX R-- --- RWX R-- R-- "urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-ip" RW- RW- R-- --- RW- R-- R-- "urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf- RW- RW- R-- --- RW- R-- R-- interfaces" "urn:o-ran:processing-elements: x.y " RW- RW- R-- --- RW- RW- R-- (note 6) " urn:o-ran:mplane-interfaces: x.y " RW- RW- R-- --- RW- R-- R-- (note 2) "urn:o-ran:dhcp: x.y " R-- R-- R-- --- R-- R-- R-- "urn:o-ran:ald: x.y" --X --- --- --- --X --X --- (note 3) "urn:o-ran:troubleshooting: x.y" R-X R-X R-X --- R-X --- --- " urn:o-ran:trace: x.y" R-X R-X R-X --- R-X --- --- "urn:o-ran:laa: x.y " RW- RW- --- --- R-- RW- R-- "urn:o-ran:laa-operations: x.y " R-X --- --- --- --- R-X --- "urn:o-ran:antcal: x.y " RWX R-- --- --- R-- RWX R-X "urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf- RW- R-- R-- R-- RW- RW- R-- netconf-acm" "urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-yang- R-X R-X R-X R-X R-X R-X R-X library" "urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf- R-X R-X R-X R-X R-X R-X R-X netconf-monitoring" "urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf- R-X R-X R-X R-X R-X R-X R-X netconf-notifications" "urn:o-ran:shared-cell:x.y" RW- RW- --- --- R-- RW- R-- (note 6) "urn:o-ran:ethernet-fwd:x.y" RW- RW- --- --- RW- R-- R-- "urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf- --- --- --- --- RWX --- --- subscribed-notifications" "urn:o-ran:ves-sn:x.y" --- --- --- --- RW- --- --- "urn:ieee:std:802.1X:yang:ieee802- RW- RW- R-- --- RW- R-- R-- dot1x" Module Rules sudo nms fm-pm swm smo hybrid- carrier odu "urn:ieee:std:802.1X:yang:ieee802- RW- RW- R-- --- RW- R-- R-- dot1x-eapol" "urn:ieee:std:802.1Q:yang:ieee802- RW- RW- R-- --- RW- R-- R-- dot1q-cfm" "urn:o-ran:o-ran-ieee802-dot1q-cfm" RW- RW- R-- --- RW- R-- R-- "urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf- RW- RW- R— --- RW- R-- R— system" (note 5) (note 5) (note 5) (note 5) (note 5) (note 6) "urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf- RW- R-- --- --- RW- R-- R-- truststore" "urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf- R-X R-X --- --- R-X R-X R-- keystore" (note 11) (note 11) (note 11) (note 11) (note 11) "urn:o-ran:certificates:x.y" RW- --- --- --- RW- RW- --- "urn:o-ran:frequency-band- R-X R-- --- --- R-X R-X --- measurement:x.y"
> NOTE 1: The rule list for "urn:o-ran:user-mgmt:1.0" shall additionally deny reading of the password leaf by any
NETCONF client
> NOTE 2: The rule list for "urn:o-ran:mplane-int:1.0" shall additionally deny the writing of the configured-client-info
container for NETCONF sessions with "nms" group privileges.
> NOTE 3: While the rule list for models related to Antenna Line Devices (ALD) permit SMO configuration privileges, the
operation of the current architecture, including requiring the use of regular NETCONF RPCs to tunnel heartbeat messages to the ALD, may limit the scalability of scenarios where the SMO is providing for the ALD Controller function described in clause 14.4.
> NOTE 4: The rule list for "urn:o-ran:supervision:x.y" shall additionally deny writing of the cu-plane-monitoring
container for NETCONF sessions with "smo" group privileges.
> NOTE 5: The rule list for "urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-system" shall additionally deny write access to the clock
container and the authentication container and deny read access to the system-state container for all
> NOTE 6: Clause 19 describes further details of how carrier privileges are refined based on sro-id for O-RUs that
support the SHARED-ORU-MULTI-OPERATOR feature.
> NOTE 7: The carrier rule list prohibits read and write to o-ran-usermgmt YANG model, but allows access to the sro-id
leaf instance defined in o-ran-usermgmt from different data structures by reference.
> NOTE 8: Execution access privilege applies to chg-password RPC only.
> NOTE 9: Void.
> NOTE 10: Execution access privilege applies to subscription for the notification emergency-wake-up-complete and
notification deep-hibernate-activated only. Privilege to execute the deep-hibernate RPC shall be denied.
> NOTE 11: The present document only supports CMPv2 as the method to issue a certificate. An O-RU controller can
use the ietf-keystore model to read the installed certificate(s) and/or trigger the generation of a certificate signing request. The O-RU shall encode the mappings defined in Table 6.5-1 in the rule list in ietf-netconf-acm.yang model. Only Multi-Operator O-RUs are required to support the "carrier" privilege group. The sudo access control group shall be supported by all O-RUs. This rule list shall be unmodifiable by any NETCONF client. O-RU shall use the same model for configuring the mapping between different user-names and groups.
> NOTE : The operation of an O-RU when using other vendor defined pre-configured groups is not defined in the
present document.

## 6.6 NETCONF capability discovery
The O-RU shall advertise its NETCONF capabilities in the NETCONF Hello message. The Hello message sent by the O-RU shall include the <session-id> element containing the session ID for the NETCONF session and shall provide an indication of support for standard features defined in NETCONF RFCs as well as support for specific namespaces. NETCONF capabilities are exchanged between the O-RU and the NETCONF client(s). Examples of capabilities are specified in clause 8 of RFC 6241 [3] and include the following capability items:
- Writable-running Capability
- Candidate Configuration Capability and associated Commit operation
- Discard change operation
- Lock and un-lock operations
- Confirmed commit Capability
- Cancel commit operation
- Rollback on error capability
- Validate Capability
- Startup configuration capability
- URL capability
- XPATH capability
- Notifications
- Interleave capability
O-RUs shall support the "XPATH capability". O-RUs shall support "Notifications".
- O-RUs shall support subscribing to receive event notifications, as specified in clause 2 of RFC5277 [21]
- O-RUs may support dynamic subscriptions to receive event notifications, as specified in clause 2.4 or
RFC8639 [37]. The use of <create-subscription> RPC in the present document can be understood as being equivalent to the <establish- subscription> RPC for those NETCONF servers and NETCONF clients that support dynamic subscriptions as specified in RFC8639 [37]. O-RUs shall support at least one of the following capabilities:
- "writable-running capability"
- "candidate configuration capability and associated Commit operation".
In addition, an O-RU that supports "writable-running capability" should support the "rollback on error capability" and an O-RU that supports "candidate configuration capability and associated Commit operation" should support the "confirmed commit capability". The NETCONF client uses the get RPC together with sub-tree based <filter> and XPATH based <filter> to recover particular sub-trees from the O-RU. See clause 9 for more information on NETCONF based configuration management. In order to avoid interactions between the operation of supervision watchdog timer (see clause 6.7) and the confirmed commit timer (default value set to 600 seconds in RFC 6241 [3]), when using the NETCONF confirmed commit capability, a NETCONF client with "sudo" privileges shall ensure the confirmed-timeout is less than the supervision- notification-interval timer (default value 60 seconds in o-ran-supervision.yang).

## 6.7 Monitoring NETCONF connectivity
This clause provides description of NETCONF connectivity monitoring for persistent NETCONF session. Additional procedures for O-RUs that support the optional NON-PERSISTENT-MPLANE feature to monitor the communication path between the O-RU and Event-Collector are defined in clause 18.6. When having a session with a NETCONF client that has subscribed to receive the supervision-notification, the O-RU shall operate watchdog timers (supervision timer and notification timer) to ensure that the session to the NETCONF client is persistent, as illustrated in Figure 6.7-1. The O-RU provides NETCONF Notifications to indicate to remote systems that its management system is operational. For the O-RU that supports feature SUPERVISION-WITH-SESSION-ID, these supervision-notification messages shall also indicate the NETCONF session-id associated with the subscription to the event notification. When subscribing to receive the supervision-notification, a NETCONF client may use its own NETCONF session-id in the subscription filter criteria to indicate to the O-RU which supervision-notification events the O-RU shall forward to the NETCONF client. The session-id is provided by the NETCONF server to the NETCONF client in the initial Hello exchange, see clause 6.6. An O-RU controller that has subscribed to the supervision-notification shall use the <supervision-watchdog-reset> RPC to indicate to O-RU the O-RU controller is operational.
> NOTE 1: This supervision is intended to be used with the NETCONF client associated with the operation of the
peer to the O-RU's lower layer split and clause 6.5 describes which NETCONF clients have privileges to subscribe to the supervision-notification.

# A NETCONF server shall support the operation of individual supervision watchdog timers for each NETCONF client
which has subscribed to supervision-notification. The privileged NETCONF client may enable the operation of the watchdog timers by creating supervision-notification subscription. After operation of watchdog timers is enabled - the timers are considered as running. The O-RU shall use two timers, referred generically as watchdog timers, to support the bi-directional monitoring of NETCONF connectivity:
- Notification timer:
Value: Equal to supervision-notification-interval (default value: 60s) Operation: The O-RU sends supervision-notification to those NETCONF clients that have subscribed to receive such notifications. The O-RU sends supervision-notification, at the latest when the timer expires. The O-RU Controller confirms that NETCONF connectivity to the O-RU is operational by receiving the notification.
- Supervision timer:
Value : Equal to supervision-notification-interval (default value: 60s) + guard-timer-overhead (default value: 10s) Operation: The O-RU identifies supervision failure operation when the timer expires. To avoid supervision timer expiration, a NETCONF client who has subscribed to receive the supervision-notification should repeatedly reset this supervision timer. Such supervision timer reset is considered by O-RU as confirmation that NETCONF connectivity to the O-RU Controller is operational. The O-RU shall enable dedicated watchdog timers for specific NETCONF client when it receives a <create- subscription> RPC from a NETCONF client with required privileges. The notification timer shall be started when the O-RU receives a <create-subscription> RPC, but how the O-RU treats the supervision timer is up to O-RU's implementation based on the above definition. After the watchdog timers have been enabled, the O-RU shall send supervision-notification after the expiry of the notification timer. An O-RU Controller who has subscribed to the supervision-notification shall be prepared to receive the notification at any time when the watchdog timers are running.

# A NETCONF client that has triggered operation of watchdog supervision by using the <establish-subscription> RPC to subscribe to the supervision-notification may cancel the subscription by using the <delete-subscription> RPC, as
specified in clause 9.1.7.3. An O-RU receiving a <delete-subscription> RPC from a NETCONF client for an existing supervision-notification shall cease operation of the watchdog supervision with that NETCONF client.
> NOTE 2: In case there are active carriers and watchdog supervision is active, it is not recommended to delete the
subscription to the supervision-notification. The NETCONF client should send supervision-watchdog-reset RPC in order not to cause the Supervision timer to expire, and the O-RU should send next notification timestamp as next-update-at in reply.
> NOTE 3: next-update-at is just informative.
In the supervision-watchdog-reset RPC, the NETCONF client may configure new values for the watchdog timers using RPC parameters "supervision-notification-interval" and "guard-timer-overhead. When the O-RU receives the supervision-watchdog-reset RPC, it shall reset its supervision timer and notification timer. When the watchdog timers are running, the O-RU shall be prepared to receive supervision-watchdog-reset RPC at any time - also within supervision timer period. The NETCONF client can set new value of watchdog timers without receiving supervision-notification from the O- RU. The new values are taken into use immediately with respect to supervision-watchdog-reset RPC content. The next notification should be expected not later than at the moment addressed in timestamp provided by RPC reply. If another NETCONF client has locked the running configuration, e.g. when operating in hybrid mode of operation, and if the O-RU Controller attempts to configure a new value of the watchdog timer(s) by sending the supervision- watchdog-reset RPC, then the RPC operation to reset the watchdog timer will succeed, but the related backend implementation to modify the watchdog timer(s) may fail. In such circumstances, the O-RU may use the error-message in the RPC output to indicate to the O-RU Controller that the configuration modification has failed. If the supervision timer expires, the O-RU shall enter "supervision failure" condition, as described in clause 14. If all NETCONF sessions to NETCONF clients with "sudo" privileges are closed, the O-RU shall immediately disable operation of the supervision timer.
> NOTE 4: A NETCONF client can use the create-subscription for the single supervision-notification event
stream, or alternatively subscribe to the default event-stream using additional filter criteria to identify the supervision notification. In order to subscribe to multiple notifications, the appropriate create- subscription message is required. Refer to clause 11.3 for the appropriate example of create- subscription of multiple notifications. 1) The supervision timer expires. In such case, the O-RU shall perform Supervision Failure handling as described in clause 14.1.1. 2) The NETCONF client terminates the subscription to the supervision-notification. The NETCONF client can either close the subscription session, terminate the NETCONF session or wait for the subscription stop time to be reached. In such case the O-RU performs Supervision Termination handling as described in clause 14.1.2.

## 6.8 Closing a NETCONF session

# A NETCONF client closes an existing NETCONF session by issuing the RPC close-session command. The O-RU shall
respond and close the SSH session or TLS connection. If the NETCONF client is a Call home O-RU controller, the O- RU shall then re-commence call home procedures, as described in clause 6.3. In case the O-RU is operating in deep- hibernate mode and the hibernate-time timer is operational, as specified in clause 20.5, the O-RU shall suspend call home procedures. Under normal operations, it is expected that at least one NETCONF session with "sudo" or "hybrid-odu" privileges are long-lived and used to repeatedly reset the O-RU's supervision watchdog timer for the NETCONF session. NETCONF clients associated with other privilege groups are not required to operate using persistent NETCONF sessions. If a NETCONF client has been previously become known to an O-RU by being configured using NETCONF, and the NETCONF client is subsequently removed from the O-RU's configuration, e.g. by a second NETCONF client with "sudo" privileges, the NETCONF server shall force the termination of the NETCONF session to the removed client.

## 6.9 PNF registration

### 6.9.1 Introduction
The support by an O-RU of PNF Registration to a discovered Event-Collector is optional and hence clause 6.9 only applies to those O-RUs that support this optional capability. An O-RU that support pnfRegistration shall also support the Monitoring the Communications Channel between O-RU and Event-Collector as defined in clause 18.6. In case the O-RU is operating in in deep-hibernate mode and the hibernate-time timer is operational, as specified in clause 20.5, the O-RU shall suspend PNF Registration procedures.

### 6.9.2 PNF registration procedure
The pnfRegistration notification is a JSON encoded message sent from the O-RU to the discovered Event-Collector using REST/HTTPS. As a pre-condition to performing PNF Registration, the O-RU first receives the Event-Collector information encoded in a DHCP/DHCPv6 option as described in clause 6.2.7. The O-RU shall attempt to establish a HTTP connection to the discovered Event-Collector using TLS to authenticate the connection. It shall then signal the pnfRegistration notification over the HTTP/TLS connection. The sending of the pnfRegistration notification is repeated periodically until the SMO establishes a NETCONF session with the O-RU. These procedures are illustrated in Figure 6.9.2-1. An O-RU that is performing the PNF registration procedure whilst simultaneously performing the call home procedure described in clause 6.3, shall be able to determine that the SMO has established a NETCONF session with the O-RU. This is identified by the O-RU analysing the source IP address from which the NETCONF originates, based on the assumption that the NETCONF session from the SMO originates from an IP address that is distinct from the IP address(es) of the call home O-RU Controller(s) to which the O-RU is simultaneously performing the call home procedure.

### 6.9.3 Encoding of PNF registration notification
In the present document, the encoding of the pnfRegistration notification follows the ONAP definition [i.2]. The pnfRegistration notification shall include the IP address information necessary for a NETCONF client to establish IP connectivity to the NETCONF Server in the O-RU. The contents of the pnfRegistration notification are derived from the O-RU's configuration database using Table 6.9.3- 1. An O-RU shall support the o-ran-hardware.yang model revision 5.0.0, or later, which defines the schema nodes corresponding to unitFamily and unitType values and the o-ran-operations.yang model revision 5.0.0, or later, which defines the schema nodes corresponding to the version of pnfRegistration fields. PnfRegistration YANG Operational Data O-RU pnfRegistration requirements Notification Field lastServiceDate /hw:hardware/hw:component/or-hw:last- The O-RU may include the lastServiceDate service-date field macAddress /if:interfaces/if:interface/o-ran-int:mac-address The O-RU may include the macAddress field manufactureDate /hw:hardware/hw:component/hw:mfg-date The O-RU may include the manufactureDate field modelNumber /hw:hardware/hw:component/hw:model-name The O-RU shall include the modelNumber field oamV4IpAddress /if:interfaces/if:interface/ip:ipv4/ip:address/ip:ip When the O-RU has IPv4 address assigned for management plane (as specified in clause 6.2.4), it shall include the oamV4IpAddress field (note 1) oamV6IpAddress /if:interfaces/if:interface/ip:ipv6/ip:address/ip:ip When the O-RU has IPv6 address assigned for management plane (as specified in clause 6.2.4), it shall include the oamV6IpAddress field (note 1) pnfRegistrationFields Version /o-ran-ops:operational-info/o-ran- The O-RU shall include the ops:declarations/o-ran-ops:supported-pnf- pnfRegistrationFieldsVersion field registration-fields-version serialNumber /hw:hardware/hw:component/hw:serial-num The O-RU shall include the serialNumber field softwareVersion /hw:hardware/hw:component/hw:software-rev The O-RU shall include the softwareVersion field vendorName /hw:hardware/hw:component/hw:mfg-name The O-RU shall include the vendorName field
> NOTE 1: The PNF registration operation of an O-RU that uses o-ran-mplane-int YANG model to report multiple m-plane-sub-
interfaces list entries of the same IP address type is not defined in the present document.

## 6.10 On-demand renewal of Call Home procedure
The O-RU that exposes presence of feature CALL-HOME-REACTIVATION-SUPPORTED can be triggered to re- active O-RU controller having necessary permissions shall cause O-RU to re-start call home towards all not actively connected call home O-RU controllers as described in clause 6.3. Once restarted, the call home flows shall continue until M-Plane session with lost call home O-RU controller(s) is successfully re-established or until counter max-call-home-attempts is exhausted. For every call home O-RU controller for which supervision is recovered in(as) result of RPC <restart-call-home>, the O-RU shall cancel alarm 35 "Lost O-DU ID based Supervision" when supervision is successfully recovered This RPC has no impact on O-RU operations with call home controllers that have M-Plane session established with O- RU. In case O-RU is performing call home procedure towards call home O-RU controller, the RPC shall trigger the O-RU to re-initialize its internal counter based on value of node max-call-home-attempts and continues call home procedure.

## 6.11 TLS sessions and certificate expiry
After a certificate has been re-issued, an O-RU may continue to use M-Plane sessions (e.g. NETCONF, FTPeS) authenticated using a previously issued, un-expired certificate. New M-Plane sessions shall use the certificate with the longest time to expiration, as described in clause 6.4.2. After having received a notification that an O-RU has been re-issued a certificate by the Operator PKI, an O-RU controller should schedule the closing of existing NETCONF session by issuing the RPC close-session command following the procedure specified in clause 6.8.
> NOTE 1: The timing of the scheduled session closing can be arranged to minimize any service impacting effects.
> NOTE 2: The operation of the O-RU when the certificate used to authenticate an on-going M-Plane session expires
is not defined.

# 7 O-RU to O-DU interface management

## 7.1 O-RU interfaces
An O-RU has a number of network interfaces, including Ethernet, VLAN and IP interfaces. This clause describes the management of these network interfaces. The O-RU's configuration for its interfaces is defined using the o-ran-interfaces.yang module. This module augments the standard ietf-interfaces.yang and ietf-ip.yang modules. The O-RU's interfaces are built on a layering principle where each interface has a unique name. All interfaces are referenced by their port-number and name. The base interface corresponds to the Ethernet interface. These leafs describe the maximum transmission unit (l2-mtu), the hardware-address as well as optional alias mac addressees that may be used to transport the CU plane. An O-RU can indicate the maximum Ethernet payload size per O-RU Ethernet interface it supports by using the maximum-ethernet-payload-size leaf. The O-RU shall reject any configuration where the Ethernet payload configured using l2-mtu for an Ethernet interface exceeds the value of maximum-ethernet-payload-size.
> NOTE 1: If an O-RU does not indicate a value of maximum-ethernet-payload-size in its operational state, the
operator and O-RU vendor can agree on a maximum Ethernet frame size.
> NOTE 2: The definition of the read-only maximum-ethernet-payload-size is different from the l2-mtu definition.
The description in the YANG model defines how to map between the two and Figure 7.1-0a illustrates an example subset of configuration and operational data. <interfaces xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-interfaces"> <interface> <name>10Geth0</name> <type xmlns:ianaift="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:iana-if-type">ianaift:ethernetCsmacd</type> <enabled>true</enabled> <l2-mtu xmlns="urn:o-ran:interfaces:1.0"> </l2-mtu> <maximum-ethernet-payload-size xmlns="urn:o-ran:interfaces:1.0"> </maximum-ethernet-payload-size> <vlan-tagging xmlns="urn:o-ran:interfaces:1.0"> true </vlan-tagging> </interface> </interfaces> Additionally, for O-RUs that include the ieee802-dot1x and ietf-system models in their YANG library the /if:interfaces/if:interface/dot1x:pae/dot1x:port-capabilities/dot1x:supp schema node enables an O-RU Controller to configure operation of IEEE 802.1X Port based Access Control, as specified in [70]. Above the Ethernet interface are VLAN interfaces. Both Ethernet and VLAN interfaces can support IP interfaces. IP interfaces are defined using the standard ietf-ip.yang model. The O-RU controller can restrict the maximum size of IP packets using the /if:interfaces/if:interface/ip:ipv4/ip:mtu and/or the /if:interfaces/if:interface/ip:ipv6/ip:mtu leaves. Accordingly, each IP interface can have an IPv4 and/or IPv6 interface(s) defined. An O-RU may support the PER-INT- TCP-MSS feature that allows an O-RU controller to configure the TCP Maximum Segment Size (MSS). When the O- RU supports the PER-INT-TCP-MSS feature, the O-RU shall reject any configuration where the mss-adjust leaf for an interface exceeds the value of /ip:mtu configured on the same interface. When a value of the mss-adjust leaf is configured, an O-RU shall set its value of MSS option to the configured value, independently of any MSS value derived using discovered MTU procedures. Figure 7.1-0b illustrates a subset of configuration data that enables a UDP/IP based CUS-Plane to benefit from 9000 byte payload, compared with the TCP based M-plane that is restricted to a payload of 1500 bytes. <interfaces xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-interfaces"> <interface> <name>10Geth0</name> <type xmlns:ianaift="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:iana-if-type">ianaift:ethernetCsmacd</type> <enabled>true</enabled> <vlan-tagging xmlns="urn:o-ran:interfaces:1.0"> false </vlan-tagging> <ipv4 xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-ip"> <mtu>9000</mtu> <tcp xmlns="urn:o-ran:interfaces:1.0"> <mss-adjust>1460</mss-adjust> </tcp> </ipv4> <ipv6 xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-ip"> <mtu>9000</mtu> <tcp xmlns="urn:o-ran:interfaces:1.0"> <mss-adjust>1440</mss-adjust> </tcp> </ipv6> </interface> </interfaces> and M-Plane The O-RU shall provide operational state associated with the layer 3 configuration of these interfaces, including prefix(es), using the ietf-ip YANG model, and domain name servers and default gateway addresses, using the o-ran- dhcp YANG model. An example of such operational state for the ietf-ip YANG model is shown in Figure 7.1-1. <ipv4 xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-ip"> <enabled>true</enabled> <address> <ip>10.10.0.17</ip> <netmask>255.255.255.0</netmask> <origin>dhcp</origin> </address> </ipv4> Finally, leafs associated with CoS and DSCP marking are defined, enabling independent configuration of CoS and DSCP markings for u-plane, c-plane and m-plane traffic. As a default, all user-plane flows are marked identically by the O-RU. Optionally, the interfaces can be configured to support enhanced user plane marking for up-link traffic whereby different CoS or DSCP values can be configured. This enables individual receive endpoints in the O-RU to be configured with different markings to then enable differentiated handling of up-link flows by the transport system. Because the o-ran-interfaces model defines augments to the ietf-interfaces model, the O-RU can leverage the definition of operational state in ietf-interfaces to optionally report packet and byte counts on a per interface basis. A single RPC is defined in the o-ran-interfaces module, to enable these counters to be reset.

## 7.2 Transceiver

### 7.2.1 General
The o-ran-transceiver YANG module is used to define operational state for the pluggable transceiver module (like SFP, SFP+, SFP28, XFP and QSFP, QSFP+, QSFP28, QSFP56). Each transceiver is associated with a unique interface- name and port-number. Interfaces accessible through the transceiver are provided by the interface-name, interface- names and additional-multi-lane-reporting/interface-names leaves in the o-ran-transceiver YANG module. A digital diagnostic monitoring interface for optical transceivers is used to allow access to device operating parameters. As specified in SFF-8472 [16] and SFF-8636 [34], data is typically retrieved from the transceiver module in a file. This file may be obtained from O-RU by the NETCONF client. See clause 9 for more details. With QSFP form factor, the optical links may be multi-wavelengths (4xTx & 4xRx) and/or multi-fibres (MPO - Multifibre Parallel Optic). The QSFP digital diagnostic interface as specified in SFF-8636 [34] describes the use of optical lanes and the O-RU interface management defines alarm 29 :"transceiver fault" for all media lanes. The byte with offset i (i=0, …, 511) from the beginning of the file is the byte read from data address i of the transceiver memory at two-wire interface address 0xA0 if i<256, otherwise it is the byte read from data address i-256 of the transceiver memory at two-wire interface address 0xA2. The retrieved data is stored in the file without any conversion in binary format. The O-RU stores data from the transceiver module on transceiver module detection during start-up. The data from the transceiver module is saved in the file. A NETCONF client can upload it by using the File Upload procedure defined in clause 12. The O-RU does not synchronise contents of the file with transceiver memory in runtime, therefore bytes representing dynamic information are expected to be outdated. The O-RU does not remove the file on transceiver module removal. If a transceiver module is inserted during File Upload procedure, then the procedure may provide a file with previous content or fail (with failure reason as listed in File Upload procedure). If the O-RU is unable to retrieve the data from the transceiver module or it is not present, then the O-RU does not create the file or removes the file created earlier
> NOTE: File Upload procedure requesting non-existing file will fail.
The file name shall have the following syntax:
- sfp_{portNumber}.sffcap
where {portNumber} is the value of port-number leaf of the corresponding list of port-transceiver data. Examples: sfp_0.sffcap, sfp_1.sffcap.

### 7.2.2 Transceiver presence change notification
The O-DU may subscribe to transceiver presence change notifications, which report the status of the transceiver presence. The following notification is defined in the YANG model:
- transceiver-presence-change - conveys the port-transceiver-data information (transceiver-presence, name,
port-number, interface-name). The above notification is sent to the subscribed O-RU controllers whenever O-RU detects that presence of a transceiver module has changed, as illustrated in Figure 7.2.2-1.

## 7.3 C/U-Plane VLAN configuration
Within the o-ran-interfaces YANG model, each named Ethernet interface includes a leaf to indicate whether VLAN tagging is supported. By default, VLAN tagging shall be enabled on all interfaces. This permits an O-RU to autonomously discover that it is connected to a trunk port, as described in clause 6.2.3. When an O-RU is connected to a trunk port, VLANs will also typically be assigned to the C/U plane connections. The VLAN(s) used to support C/U plane transport may be different from the VLAN(s) used to support management plane connectivity. The VLAN assigned to the U-Plane shall be the same as the VLAN assigned to the C-Plane for any given eAxC_ID. When different VLANs are used, the C/U plane VLANs shall be configured in the O-RU by the NETCONF client. In such circumstances, as defined in o-ran-interfaces, the NETCONF client shall configure separate named interfaces for each active VLAN. This configuration will define a C/U-Plane named VLAN interface as being the higher-layer-if reference for the underlying Ethernet interface and the underlying Ethernet interface is defined as being the lower-layer-if reference for the named VLAN interface.

## 7.4 O-RU C/U-Plane IP address assignment
In this release, the support for C/U plane transport over UDP/IP is optional and hence this clause only applies to those O-RUs that support this optional capability. An O-RU that supports C/U plane transport over UDP/IP shall support IPv4 and/or IPv6 based transport. A NETCONF client can receive a hint as to whether an O-RU supports a particular IP version by using the get RPC to recover the list of interfaces supported by the O-RU and using the presence of the augmented ipv4 container or ipv6 container in the o- ran-interfaces YANG module as an indication that a particular IP version is supported. The IP interface(s) used to support UDP/IP based C/U plane transport may be different than the IP interface(s) dynamically discovered using the procedures defined in clause 6.2.4. When different IP interface(s) is/are used, the C/U plane IP interfaces shall be configured in the O-RU by the NETCONF client by using the ietf-ip YANG model, as specified in RFC 8344 [91], to configure the IPv4 container and/or IPv6 container. When configured by the NETCONF client, this interface shall be configured using either a named Ethernet interface (i.e. where the interface type is set to ianaift:ethernetCsmacd) and/or a named VLAN interface (i.e. where the interface type is set to ianaift:l2vlan), depending upon whether VLANs are used to support IP based C/U plane traffic. When a separate C/U plane IP interface is configured by the NETCONF client, additionally the NETCONF client may statically configure IP address(es) on this interface. If the NETCONF client does not statically configure an IP address, the O-RU shall be responsible for performing IP address assignment procedures on the configured interfaces. When an O-RU Controller has configured an IP interface with enabled set to true, but where the O-RU Controller has not configured a static IP address, the NETCONF client can use the autoconf container to control the O-RU's use of autoconfiguration of IPv6 addresses as specified in RFC 8344 [91] by using the create-global-addresses parameter. When an IPv6 container is configured by a NETCONF client with a create-global-addresses set to false, the O-RU shall attempt to configure a dynamic IPv6 address using IPv6 State-full address configuration using DHCPv6 as specified in RFC 8415 [58]. When an IPv4 container is configured by a NETCONF client an IP interface with enabled set to true, but where the O-RU Controller has not configured a static IP address, the O-RU shall attempt to configure a dynamic IPv4 address using DHCPv4 as specified in RFC 2131 [10]. As specified in clause 6.2.8, an O-RU that supports static routing shall route IP-based C/U plane traffic towards a destination IP address based on its routing table.

## 7.5 Definition of processing elements
The CU-plane application needs to be uniquely associated with specific transport flows. This association is achieved by defining an O-RU "processing element" which can then be associated with a particular C/U plane endpoint eAxC ID, as specified in [2] clause 5.4 or delay measurement operation, as specified in [2] clause 4.4.3.3. Unless specified otherwise, a common processing element is required to be configured for the control and user-plane application components associated with any individual eAxC_ID. The O-RU management plane supports different options for defining the transport endpoint identifiers used by a particular processing element (used depending on transport environment), supporting the following 3 options:
- Processing element definition based on usage of different (alias) MAC addresses;
- Processing element definition based on a combination of VLAN identity and MAC address; and
- Processing element definition based on UDP-ports and IP addresses.
> NOTE: There is no well-defined source port currently allocated by IANA for the o-ran application and hence the
NETCONF client can configure this port number in the O-RU. A processing element consists of both the local and remote transport endpoints and is used as a logical transport path. The processing element definition includes its element name which is then used by other systems to refer to a particular processing element instance. The o-ran-interfaces YANG model is used to define feature support for C/U plane transport based on alias MAC addresses and UDP/IP. The exchange of NETCONF capabilities is used to signal which optional capabilities are supported by the O-RU, as described in clause C. The o-ran-processing-elements YANG model uses a processing-elements container to define a list of processing elements. Each processing element is identified by a unique element name. Each processing element references a particular interface-name used to support the data flows associated with a particular processing element. Depending upon the type of C/U plane transport session, additionally leafs are configured that specify MAC addresses, and/or VLANs and/or IP addresses and/or UDP ports used to identify a particular processing element. If the O-RU reports the capability of supporting feature MULTIPLE-TRANSPORT-SESSION-TYPE, which indicates the O-RU supports multiple transport-session-type, the NETCONF client may configure processing-elements with more than one transport-session-type to the O-RU, using the list additional-transport-session-type-elements with the key transport-session-type. When a processing element configured by the list additional-transport-session-type- elements is referenced by other modules, the transport-session-type shall also be configured as a key to the list additional-transport-session-type-elements. The O-RU may discard any received CU-plane messages, i.e. eCPRI/IEEE 1914 frames/packets, which are not transported using a configured processing element.

## 7.6 O-DU verification of C/U-Plane transport connectivity

### 7.6.1 C/U-Plane transport connectivity verification
As described above, there will likely be multiple C/U-plane data flows being exchanged between the O-DU and the O- RU. In order to enable checks verifying C/U-Plane end-to-end transport connectivity between the O-DU and O-RU, the O-RU shall support C/U-Plane connectivity verification capabilities using a request/reply function, as illustrated in Using that connectivity verification procedure, bi-directional reachability/connectivity verification between tranport endpoints can be performed by the O-DU:
- During O-RU configuration, to validate the transport configuration.
- At runtime to regularly perform bi-directional network connectivity verification.
The periodicity for bi-directional connectivity verification is usually between 1 and 60 seconds. Two different network protocols are defined for performing the bi-directional transport connectivity verification procedure:
- For C/U sessions over Ethernet: Loop-back Protocol (LBM/LBR) as specified in IEEE 802.1Q-2018 [69].
- When the O-RU is configured to support C/U sessions over IP: UDP echo, as specified in RFC 862 [18].

### 7.6.2 Ethernet connectivity monitoring procedure

#### 7.6.2.1 Transport connectivity verification monitoring Procedure
When the O-RU and O-DU are operating their C/U sessions transported over Ethernet, the transport connectivity verification checks operate at the Ethernet layer. The protocol for Ethernet connectivity verification shall use the Loop- back Protocol as defined by IEEE 802.1Q-2018 [69]. For the purpose of regular connectivity verification, all transport endpoints used for C/U-plane messaging in the fronthaul network shall be configured to be part of the same Maintenance Entity (ME). The O-RU Controller shall configure each O-RU, assigning them the role of a Maintenance association End Point (MEP) for LBM. The sending of Loop-back Messages (LBMs) is administratively initiated and stopped in the O-DU. Therefore, sending LBM requests needs to be requested by an administration entity, specifying an Ethernet interface of the O-RU responder. If administratively initiated, the O-DU shall send the LBM request. When sending the LBM request, support for setting the destination MAC address as the unicast MAC address of the specified O-RU Ethernet interface as per IEEE 802.1Q-2018 [67] is mandatory while the support for setting the destination MAC address as the group destination MAC address 01-80-C2-00-00-3x as specified in Recommendation ITU-T Y.1731 [25] clause 7.2.2, where the LSB 4 bits are derived from the md-level configuration in o-ran-lbm.yang, is optional. See also clause 10.1 of Recommendation ITU-T Y.1731 [25]. An O-RU that supports LBM configuration using the ieee802-dot1q-cfm YANG model shall include the ieee802-dot1q- cfm model in its YANG library. Such an O-RU can have a common LBM configuration datastore and operational data, exposed by both ieee802-dot1q-cfm and o-ran-lbm YANG models. For example, an O-RU can ensure the value of replies-transmitted in o-ran-lbm YANG model to be set as identical to that value of mep-lbr-out in the ieee802-dot1q-cfm YANG model. In case the coordination of LBM configuration happens external to the O-RU, when LBM configuration is inconsistent between two models, the LBM behaviour of the O-RU is not specified by the present document. O-RUs that supports ieee802-dot1q-cfm.yang shall support the Notification of Updates to its Configuration Datastore functionality, as specified in clause 9.4. Hence, any NETCONF clients connected to the O-RU may configure subscriptions to receive notifications of modifications to ieee802-dot1q-cfm.yang and/or o-ran-lbm.yang configuration changes.

#### 7.6.2.2 Validating the transport configuration
After setting up a U/C-plane session between an O-DU and an O-RU, the O-DU can test whether connectivity exists as per the configuration. To achieve that, at the time a transport endpoint becomes operational at an O-RU, it starts an LBM responder application which automatically responds to incoming LBM requests on that transport endpoint. Based on a configuration command the O-DU starts sending out a predefined number of LBM requests to its O-RU(s) at a predefined interval, storing the information received in LBM responses from the O-RU(s) in an internal database. O- RU(s) are identified by both Ethernet MAC address and the CU plane VLAN. The O-RU shall be able to respond to Loopback Messages received from different remote Maintenance Association Endpoints, when the destination MAC address is the O-RU's MAC address. The O-RU should respond to Loopback Messages received from different remote Maintenance Association Endpoints, when the destination MAC address is a mode and the hibernate-time timer is operational, as specified in clause 20.5, the O-RU may suspend Loopback Message processing. In case the configuration of the session is indeed correct, the O-DU should receive LBM responses from the O-RU(s) within a time frame dependent on the network latency and the O-RU's reaction time. If LBMs from the O-RU(s) are being received, the session is determined to be operational.

#### 7.6.2.3 Monitor network connectivity
After the procedure described in clause 7.6.2.2 has been executed successfully, a further procedure may be executed continuously to maintain the connectivity status. To achieve this the O-DU can continually send out LBM requests at the configured interval. It also keeps track of LBM responses received. Based on the LBM responses received the O-DU shall decide on the connectivity status. Connectivity shall be assumed to be available as long as LBM responses from the O-RU(s) are being received at the configured interval. Connectivity shall be assumed not available if no LBM response from the particular O-RU has been received for an interval that is as long as 3 x the configured LBM request interval or longer. Optionally, for those O-RUs that advertise support for the ieee802-dot1q-cfm.yang, the O-DU can enable O-RU sending of Connectivity Check Messages (CCM) by configuring ccm-enabled to "true" on the O-RU. The O-DU can monitor network connectivity by received CCM message from the O-RU. These CCM messages are sent to a multicast destination address which encodes the maintenance domain level as specified in Table 8-18 of IEEE 802.1Q[67].

#### 7.6.2.4 Managing ethernet connectivity monitoring procedure
An O-DU may have one or more Ethernet interfaces that have to support the Ethernet connectivity monitoring procedure. This clause describes the management of this function. The module described here is based on (i.e. a subset of) the mef-cfm module defined by the Metro Ethernet Forum [i.3]. This is to allow for a later extension of the module to the full feature set of mef-cfm. The YANG module provided below supports the configuration and fault management of the Loop-back Protocol as defined by IEEE 802.1Q-2018 [69]. Derived from MEF CFM YANG, the subset of type definitions is defined as part of the o-ran-lbm.yang.

### 7.6.3 IP connectivity monitoring procedure

#### 7.6.3.1 Monitoring procedure
If the O-RU and O-DU are connected using IP (and UDP/IP is being used to transport the C/U plane), these transport connectivity verification checks operate at layer 3. Layer 3 connection verification is based on the O-RU supporting the UDP echo server functionality, as specified in RFC 862 [18]. The NETCONF client should enable the UDP echo server in the O-RU, triggering the O-RU to listen for UDP datagrams on the well-known port 7. When a datagram is received by the O-RU, the data from it is sent back towards the sender, where its receipt can be used to confirm UDP/IP connectivity between the transport endpoints.

#### 7.6.3.2 Managing IP connectivity monitoring procedure
This clause describes the management of the UDP echo functionality. The NETCONF client uses the enable-udp-echo leaf in the udp-echo YANG model to control operation of the UDP echo server in the O-RU. The NETCONF client is able to control the DSCP marking used by the O-RU when it echoes back datagrams using the dscp-config leaf. Additionally, the NETCONF client can recover the number of UDP Echo messages sent by the O-RU by using echo- replies-transmitted operational state. An O-DU may have one or more IP interfaces that have to support the UDP/IP connectivity monitoring procedure. An O-RU with its UDP echo server enabled shall be able to respond to UDP datagrams originated from any valid source IP address.

## 7.7 C/U-Plane delay management

### 7.7.1 Introduction
The Intra-PHY lower layer fronthaul split has the characteristic of a stringent bandwidth and tight latency requirement. The CUS-Plane specification [2] clause 4.4 describes how the propagation delay incurred due to distance between the O- DU and O-RU is an important parameter in defining the optimisation of windowing and receive-side buffering operations. This clause describes the procedures that are used to manage the delay parameters for the fronthaul split.

### 7.7.2 Delay parameters
The reference points for delay management are specified in the CUS-Plane Specification [2], clauses 4.4 and 4.7. Important delay parameters related to the operation of the O-RU are referred to as the O-RU delay profile. As the delay characteristics for an O-RU may vary based on air interface properties, a table of the parameters is provided based on a combination of sub-carrier spacing (SCS) and channel bandwidth. Other parameters related to delays to external antennas may vary according to specific tx/rx-array-carriers. These parameters are shown in Table 7.7.2-1. YANG parameter Delay management parameters in CUS t2a-min-up T2a_min_up t2a-max-up T2a_max_up t2a-min-cp-dl T2a_min_cp_dl t2a-max-cp-dl T2a_max_cp_dl tcp-adv-dl Tcp_adv_dl t-da-offset Tda ta3-min Ta3_min ta3-max Ta3_max t2a-min-cp-ul T2a_min_cp_ul t2a-max-cp-ul T2a_max_cp_ul ta3-min-2g Ta3_min_2g ta3-max-2g Ta3_max_2g t-au-offset Tau ta3-min-ack Ta3_min_ack ta3-max-ack Ta3_max_ack If the O-RU supports multiple beamforming methods, some beamforming methods can have different delay parameters from others. In this case, the O-RU uses non-default-ru-delay-profile to report the additional sets of delay profile values based on a combination of SCS and bandwidth, the O-RU may only report the parameters that differ from ru- delay-profile. The delay parameter not reported in the non-default-ru-delay-profile uses the default value defined in ru-delay-profile. The delay-profile-id shall be used to identify additional sets of delay profiles supported by the O-RU in addition to the default delay profile. One delay profile may be common for multiple beamforming methods or may be specific to a beamforming method. Multiple BF methods used simultaneously can have the same set of delay profiles identified by the delay-profile-id. When requested, all O-RUs shall signal the table of statically "pre-defined" values of the above parameters, for different supported combinations of SCS and channel bandwidth over the management plane interface. This will typically occur during the initial start-up phase.

### 7.7.3 Reception window monitoring
The O-RU shall monitor operation of its reception window, monitoring the arrival of packets received over the fronthaul interface relative to the earliest and latest allowable times as defined by the values of t2a-max-up, t2a-max-cp- dl and t2a-min-up, t2a-min-cp-dl respectively. See clause B.3 for information on reception window counters.

### 7.7.4 External antenna delay control
An O-RU may optionally support the external antenna delay control by indicating that it supports the EXT-ANT- DELAY-CONTROL feature in its o-ran-wg4-features YANG model. Such an O-RU uses the ext-ant-delay-capability schema node in o-ran-module-cap YANG model to indicate to the O-RU Controller the type of external delay configuration supported by the O-RU:
- PER-O-RU: The O-RU only supports a single value of t-da-offset and a single value of t-au-offset across all
tx-array-carriers and rx-array-carriers respectively.
- PER-ARRAY: The O-RU supports separate values of t-da-offset and t-au-offset across individual tx-arrays
and rx-arrays respectively.
- PER-ARRAY-CARRIER: The O-RU supports separate values of t-da-offset and t-au-offset across separate tx-
array-carriers and rx-array-carriers respectively.

## 7.8 O-RU adaptive delay capability
O-RUs may optionally support the ability to optimize their buffers based on information signalled concerning the configuration of the O-DU, e.g. including the O-DU delay profile, together with transport delay information, which may have been derived by the O-DU by using a delay measurement procedure operated by the O-DU or by other techniques. This clause describes such optional O-RU buffer optimisation functionality. The reference parameters are specified in the CUS-Plane Specification [2], clauses 4.4. An O-RU that supports the optional adaptive timing capability shall indicate such to the O-RU Controller client by exchanging NETCONF capabilities, as described in clause 9.2 and clause C indicating that it supports the ADAPTIVE-RU-PROFILE feature. An O-RU Controller may then provide the O-RU with the O-DU delay profile based on a combination of sub-carrier spacing (SCS) and channel bandwidth, as shown in Table 7.8-1. YANG parameter Delay management parameters in CUS t1a-max-up T1a_max_up tx-max TXmaxO-DU ta4-max Ta4_max rx-max RXmaxO-DU t1a-max-cp-dl T1a_max_cp_dl In addition to the O-DU delay profile, the O-RU-Controller provides the O-RU with the transport network timing parameters, as shown in Table 7.8-2. YANG parameter Delay management parameters in CUS t12-min T12_min t12-max T12_max t34-min T34_min t34-max T34_max As per [2] clause 4.7, the O-RU Controller shall configure values of t12-max and t34-max as if there is no external delay, i.e. Tau = Tda = 0 (zero). The O-RU may use this information to adapt its delay profile, ensuring that the inequalities defined in clause B of [2] are still valid The O-RU controller should provide this information during the O-RU's start-up procedure. If an O-RU receives the adaptive delay configuration information when operating a carrier, the O-RU shall not adapt its O-RU delay profile until all carriers operating using the O-RU buffers have been disabled. Once an O-RU has adapted its O-RU profile, it shall include the newly adapted timing values when signalling its delay parameters to a NETCONF client.

## 7.9 Measuring transport delay parameters
An O-RU may optionally indicate that it supports the eCPRI based measurement of transport delays between O-DU and O-RU. If O-RU supports measured transport delay, it shall implement the protocol as described in the CUS-Plane Specification [2] clause 4.4.3.3. An O-RU that supports the eCPRI based delay measurement capability, shall be able to support the operation of delay measurements whenever any processing element has been configured as described in clause 7.5. For each processing element configured, the O-RU shall be able to respond to any messages when received and keep a record of the number of responses, requests and follow-up messages transmitted by the O-RU.

## 7.10 O-RU monitoring of C/U-Plane connectivity
The O-RU should monitor the C/U plane connection and should raise an alarm if the logical C/U-plane connection associated with a processing-element fails. The O-RU uses a timer to monitor the C/U plane connection on a per processing-element basis. This timer is enabled only when at least one array-carrier using the processing-element is in the active state and is reset whenever it receives any C/U plane data flows associated with the particular processing- element. Because of the variety of PHY and C/U plane configurations, the O-RU cannot independently determine the minimum frequency of messages across the fronthaul interface. When an O-RU is monitoring the C/U plane, as a default, the O-RU uses a timer value of 160 milliseconds for monitoring the C/U plane connection. An O-RU may indicate that its C/U-plane monitoring timer is configurable, by the presence of the cu-plane-monitoring container in the o-ran-supervision.yang model. A NETCONF client can use the configured-cu-monitoring-interval leaf to configure the O-RU's timer value, including being able to disable the operation of C/U Plane monitoring. If the O-RU supports this timer, then depending on how long the O-DU takes to initiate sending of C/U plane data flows, it is advisable for the NETCONF client to initially disable the operation of the timer before carrier activation. Such an approach avoids the O-RU sending spurious alarm notifications triggered by O-DU delays in initializing the sending of C/U plane data that exceed the default timer value. Once C/U plane data flows have commenced, the NETCONF client can re-configure the timer with the desired value and hence activate monitoring of the C/U plane connectivity by the O-RU.

## 7.11 Bandwidth management
An O-RU can indicate the maximum bitrate able to be supported on those interfaces associated with a particular physical port using the optional nominal-bitrate leaf in the o-ran-transceiver YANG module. When the sustainable bitrate able to be supported by an O-RU is less than the combined bitrates of all its physical ports, an O-RU can use the optional interface-grouping container in the o-ran-interfaces YANG model to define the maximum sustainable rate able to be supported by an interface-group-id corresponding to a group of one or more physical interfaces. The same YANG model is used to augment the ietf-interfaces defined interface list with the interface-group-id to which the interface belongs.
> NOTE: The maximum sustainable bandwidth is calculated over one radio frame, meaning that the peak
bandwidth can exceed the defined value over time periods shorter than one radio frame.

## 7.12 IEEE 802.1X port based access control

### 7.12.1 Configuring port based access control
The O-RU shall support IEEE 802.1X port based access control supplicant functionality.
> NOTE 1: IEEE 802.1X port based authentication is useful in those deployment scenarios where the O-RU is
connected to a physically secure point-to-point Ethernet LAN used to transport the fronthaul traffic.
> NOTE 2: A previous version of the present document did not mandate IEEE 802.1X port-based network access
control supplicant functionality in the O-RU. Operators that enable IEEE 802.1X authenticator PAE functionality in the fronthaul need to accommodate legacy O-RUs that do not support supplicant PAE functionality.
> NOTE 3: The present document does not define operation of an authenticator PAE in the O-RU. When operating
an O-RU in shared cell configuration (i.e. in FHM or cascade mode), operators wanting to benefit from the port based access control supplicant functionality in an O-RU will need to rely on the transport network equipment to implement the authenticator PAE functionality. Clause 17.4 of O-RAN Xhaul Packet Switched Architectures and Solutions [73], requires each port connection from the transport network equipment towards the O-RU supports IEEE 802.1X authenticator functionality. O-RUs indicate they support IEEE 802.1X port based access control by including the ieee802-dot1x and ietf-system models in their YANG library. An O-RU Controller can use the /sys:system/dot1x:pae-system/dot1x:system-access- control parameter to enable or disable operation of IEEE 802.1X port based access control. Once configured, an O-RU shall store the system-access-control parameter in reset persistent memory. This means that, unless the O-RU has performed a factory reset procedure as described in clause 8.8, the O-RU shall always use the last configured value of system-access-control during its next start-up procedure.
> NOTE 4: The leaf sys:system/dot1x:pae-system/dot1x:system-access-control in ieee802-dot1x YANG model
does not have a default value and hence IEEE 802.1X operation will normally be disabled in factory software. An operator and vendor can agree that an O-RU uses a default value for this leaf in factory software. The configuration parameters and operational data related to IEEE 802.1X are defined in the pae container defined in the ieee802-dot1x YANG model defined augmentation of ietf-interfaces YANG model. An O-RU uses the port- capabilities container to indicate to an O-RU controller its PAE capabilities on a per-port basis. An O-RU indicates it supports a supplicant on a particular port by setting the supp leaf to true. When an O-RU indicates it supports a supplicant, an O-RU controller can use the supplicant container to configure authentication timers and re-try behaviour. The O-RU controller can use the sys:system/dot1x:pae-system/o-ran-cert:credential container to configure the trust anchor and the client certificate to be used by the supplicant PAE. The O-RU shall store this supplicant and credential configuration in reset persistent memory. When using a group destination address for transmitting or receiving EAP encapsulation over LAN (EAPOL) messages, an O-RU including the model ieee802-dot1x-eapol in its YANG library shall use the value configured for the PAE using the eapol-group-address leaf. In other cases, an O-RU shall use the IEEE Std 802.1X PAE Address, as specified in clause 11.1.1 of IEEE 802.1X [70].

### 7.12.2 EAP authentication
The operation of a successful EAP authentication is described O-RAN Security Requirements Specifications [83], clause 3.2.5.5.3. An O-RU that supports IEEE 802.1X and which has its supplicant functionality enabled shall support EAP-TLS authentication. An O-RU that has a valid operator-signed certificate shall use the certificate in the EAP-TLS authentication. An O-RU that does not have a valid operator-signed certificate shall use its manufacturer installed certificate in the EAP-TLS authentication. All O-RUs that have a supplicant enabled shall set their unauthAllowed variable to AuthFail, as specified in IEEE 802.1X [70],, clause 12.5.1. Accordingly, the O-RU's PAE controlled port state machine shall enable unauthenticated connectivity on a port with supplicant enabled only after the EAP authentication procedure has failed.
> NOTE: The PAE authenticator can decide to permit unauthenticated connectivity from an O-RU based on
operator determined policy, e.g. based on matching the source Ethernet MAC address used by the Supplicant PAE against a register of O-RU MAC addresses. Such policies and their enforcement are outside the scope of the present document.

### 7.12.3 Certificate time validation
Operation of the EAP-TLS method requires the O-RU verify the certificate chain presented by the authenticator PAE, including confirming the certificate's validity periods. O-RUs using IEEE 802.1X port based access control shall be able to verify the certificate validity periods during the EAP-TLS exchange, e.g. by employing a persistent clock or using GNSS-based time synchronisation . If the O-RU cannot verify the certificates validity, e.g. because a persistent clock has failed, the EAP authentication procedure will fail. According to clause 7.12.2, this will result in the O-RU providing un-authenticated connectivity. If the O-RU uses a persistent clock for certificate validity checking and detects a persistent clock failure, it shall, as soon as possible, set its clock to the current time recovered from available external sources, e.g. PTP or GNSS.
> NOTE: The scenario corresponding to a failed clock source and resulting O-RU operation using un-authenticated
connectivity, is identical to the O-RU operation prior to the introduction of IEEE 802.1X port based access control in version 10 of the present document.

## 7.13 Media Access Control (MAC) security

### 7.13.1 General
Clause 7.13 describes requirements for those O-RUs that support MACsec. The support by an O-RU of MACsec is optional and hence clause 7.13 only applies to those O-RUs that support this optional capability. MACsec can be used in scenarios where the O-RU is not connected to a physically secure point-to-point Ethernet LAN. When configured, MACsec is used to secure the communications between the authenticated and authorised MAC Security Entity (SecY) associated with the O-RU’s PAE and the SecY in the authenticator PAE. The present document places no restrictions on which element hosts the SecY associated with the authenticator PAE function which is a peer of the O-RU’s supplicant PAE function.

### 7.13.2 MACsec and MACsec key agreement
An O-RU that supports MACsec shall implement MAC Security Entity requirements as specified in clause 5.3 of IEEE 802.1AE [85], MACsec Key Agreement (MKA) functionality for authentication and cryptographic key distribution as specified in clauses 5.10 and 5.11 of IEEE 802.1X [70] and the cipher suite GCM-AES-128, as specified in clause 14.4 of IEEE 802.1AE [85]. An O-RU shall indicate it supports MACsec and MKA on a particular interface name by setting the following schema nodes to true:
- /if:interfaces/if:interface/dot1x:pae/dot1x:port-capabilities/dot1x:macsec,
- /if:interfaces/if:interface/dot1x:pae/dot1x:port-capabilities/dot1x:mka and
- /if:interfaces/if:interface/dot1x:pae/dot1x:kay/dot1x:macsec/dot1x:capable.
When an O-RU Controller configures the value of /if:interfaces/if:interface/dot1x:pae/dot1x:kay/dot1x:enable to True on an interface, the O-RU shall enable the PAE Supplicant Key Agreement entitY (KaY) on the interface. The MACsec format used between the PAE Supplicant SecY and the peer PAE Authenticator SecY shall depend on whether the interface corresponds to the base-interface of an O-RU port, or a VLAN interfaces layered above a base-interface, as specified in clause 7.13.3. When the O-RU indicates multiple individual interfaces are MACsec capable, the O-RU shall support configuration and operation of multiple instances of the PAE Supplicant SecY on the individual interfaces. An O-RU that has a PAE Supplicant SecY configured on a VLAN interface which has secured communication with an authenticator PAE SecY shall be able to simultaneously support the configuration of a PAE Supplicant with IEEE 802.1X on the base-interface, as described in clause 7.12.
> NOTE: Clause 5.2.5.6 of the O-RAN Security Requirements Specifications [83] defines three different MACsec
"encryption modes". "LAN mode MACsec" corresponds to configuring the KaY/SecY on an O-RU base interface and configuring an EAPOL group address corresponding to the Nearest non-TPMR Bridge corresponds to configuring the KaY/SecY on an O-RU VLAN interface and configuring an EAPOL The present document does not specify a solution for the third mode "WAN mode MACsec".

### 7.13.3 MACsec frame format
The O-RU shall use the MACsec Ethertype 88-E5 to distinguish secure frames from other insecure frames. When the PAE Supplicant with SecY is configured on an O-RU base-interface, the VLAN tag, including the priority field, shall be encapsulated within the secure data portion of the MACsec frame, as illustrated in Figure 7.13.3-1. When the PAE Supplicant with SecY is configured on an O-RU VLAN interface, i.e. an interface name entry which includes a vlan-id leaf, the VLAN tag, including the priority field, shall be put in a cleartext VLAN header before the SecTag and shall also include the VLAN header in the secure data, as illustrated in Figure 7.13.3-2.

### 7.13.4 Controlled and uncontrolled port
The O-RU shall permit simultaneous access to secure MAC layer Internal Sublayer Services (ISS) using the controlled port of the SecY and insecure MAC ISS using the uncontrolled port, as illustrated in Figure 7.13.4-1. The O-RU shall permit operation of other protocols and entities that make use of the service provided by the SecY’s uncontrolled port to communicate independently of the operation of the MKA state machine.

### 7.13.5 MACsec bypass policy
An O-RU may indicate it supports MACsec bypass policies on its base-interface by including the MAC-BYPASS- POLICY in its yang library feature list. This clause applies to those O-RUs that include the feature in their YANG library. MACsec bypass policies on the base-interface are defined to allow matching Ethernet frames egressing the O-RU to bypass MACsec protection being applied at the base-interface, instead forwarding the matching frames using the uncontrolled port. Three different types of policies are defined: 1) matching on destination MAC address, 2) matching on ethernet type, and 3) matching on vlan-id. O-RUs supporting MACsec bypass policy shall use the macsec-bypass-capabilities container to indicate the type(s) of MACsec bypass policy supported as well as the number of policy elements that can be configured by the O-RU controller. For O-RUs that support the MACSEC-BYPASS-POLICY feature, an O-RU controller can use the o-ran-interfaces YANG model to configure a base-interface on which it has enabled a SecY with a macsec-bypass-policy container. This container allows an O-RU controller to configure the policies to apply to egress packets from the base-interface. When an O-RU controller enables a SecY on a base-interface and does not configure a corresponding macsec-bypass- policy, all traffic egressing the base-interface shall be protected by MACsec.
> NOTE 1: The MACSEC-BYPASS-POLICY feature applies when the SecY is operating at the base-interface.
Configuring SecY to operate at the VLAN-ID level automatically establishes MACsec bypass polices based on vlan-id.
> NOTE 2: The MACSEC-BYPASS-POLICY feature allows an O-RU controller to configure bypass policies for
the PTP Message Ethernet Type (88F7). In such a scenario, an O-RU configured with a physical port with time-transmitter-only = True that corresponds to a MACsec enabled base-interface, will use the un- controlled port for all PTP frames egressing the O-RU.

# 8 Software management

## 8.1 General

### 8.1.1 Introduction
The Software Management function provides a set of operations allowing the desired software package or build to be downloaded, files to be installed and slot containing installed software to be activated at O-RU. There are two types of software management processing. Some O-RUs expect a software package (in form of a zip file) to be downloaded to O-RU, while other O-RUs expect individual files in a build to be downloaded. The O-RUs that do not support download of an archived package and require downloading of individual files in a build can be distinguished by the existence of data node build-content-download. For such O-RU, the O-RU controller shall provide remote-file-path of file in the desired build as input for software-download RPC. Refer to clause 8.5 for details. If the build-content-download is not exposed by an O-RU, the O-RU controller shall provide remote-file-path of the software package zip file as input for software-download RPC. Successful software activation operation does not mean an O-RU is running the just activated software build. An O-RU reset RPC is required to trigger the O-RU to take the activated software build into operational use. The software management functions involve the O-RU controller subscribing to receive particular YANG notifications from the O-RU. All O-RUs support the NETCONF Create-Subscription method, enabling those notifications to be transported using NETCONF notifications. In addition, those O-RUs that support the optional NON-PERSISTENT- MPLANE feature, the O-RU Controller can create a configured subscription from the O-RU, enabling those notifications to be transported over HTTPS to an Event-Collector as described in clause 18. It is also Vendor's responsibility to handle SW Build / package / file integrity check. The O-RU controller shall be able to obtain information contained in the manifest.xml.

### 8.1.2 Software slots
The O-RU provides a set of so called "software slots" or "slots". Each slot provides an independent storage location for a single software build. The number of slots offered by O-RU depends on the device's capabilities. At least two writable slots shall be available at the O-RU for failsafe update operation. If the read-only slot is supported by an O-RU, the software that is present in the read only slot is termed factory default software and can be used in factory reset procedure. Refer to clause 8.9 for detailed information. Presence of read only slot is optional. The software slots are resources provided by the O-RU and as such are not the subject of creation and deletion. The size of individual software slots is fixed and determined by the O-RU's vendor and sufficient to accommodate the full software build.

### 8.1.3 Software management procedures
Software management procedures are described in clause 8.4, clause 8.5 and clause 8.6. Procedures used in Software Management are covered by o-ran-software-management.yang module.

## 8.2 Software build
A single software build is considered as set of internally consistent files compliant within such a build. Replacement of files within a build is prohibited, as this will cause software version incompatibility. Software build is a subject of versioning and maintenance and as such cannot be broken. Whether a file is included in a build is defined in manifest.xml. The manifest.xml enables mapping from radio product type to files. Revision and name of the build in each slot is provided as result by the inventory procedure to ensure visibility of radio software installation status. The use of compression and ciphering for the content of the software build is left to vendor implementation.

## 8.3 Software package

### 8.3.1 Software package name
The name of a software package shall conform to the following format: "<Vendor Code><Vendor Specific Field>[#NUMBER].EXT" Where:
- Vendor Code is a mandatory part which either has two capital characters or 1-5 digits. The vendor code prefix
in the software package file name is used to avoid conflict between file names of SW packages provided by different vendors,
- Vendor Specific Field is any set of characters allowed in filename. The value shall not include character "_"
(underscore) or "#" (hash). The value can be defined per vendor for the human readable information. Version information is necessary in the Vendor Specific Field which defines load version,
- NUMBER is optional and used when the software package is split into multiple files, e.g. when a zipped file is
split into multi-part zip file - number after "#" indicates the part number of a split file. Numbering starts from 1 and shall be continuous,
- EXT is a mandatory part which defines the extension of filename. A vendor provides one or more software
packages. Each software package shall be compressed by zip. <EXT > in the file name shall be ".zip". The O-RUs that do not expose build-content-download shall support ZIP functionality. For O-RUs that expose build-content-download, support of ZIP functionality is implementation dependent.

### 8.3.2 File server storage of software package
The operator needs to manage and control which O-RU files will be stored and used in the file server. The software package can be stored on the file sever as one or more archived file(s) or as multiple files that are extracted from a software package zip file. The O-RU controller triggers the O-RU to download software file from a file server and should ensure that all the files necessary for the O-RU are transferred from the file server to the O-RU.

### 8.3.3 Software package content and manifest.xml file
Each software package includes:
- manifest.xml
- software files
> NOTE: Those software files are intended to be installed on software slot. Those software files are intended to be
used for one or several O-RU products. An example of archive structure for the software files is: ../o-ru-sw/version1.0/xxxx ../o-ru-sw/version1.0/yyyy ../o-ru-sw/version2.0/yyyy ../o-ru-sw/version1.5/zzzz The content of the manifest.xml file allows to maintain software update process correctly in terms of compatibility between O-RU hardware and software files to be downloaded. The content of the manifest.xml file enables the O-RU controller to trigger the installation of files of a software build designed for device based on different product code. The manifest.xml file is contained in a software package and shall not be ciphered. The format of the manifest.xml file is illustrated below using example data: <xml> <manifest version="1.0"> /// @version describes version of file format (not the content) <products> <product vendor="XX" code="0818820\.x11" name="RUXX.x11" build-Id="1"/> <product vendor="XX" code="0818820\.x12" name="RUXX.x12" build-Id="1"/> <product vendor="XX" code="0818818\…" name="RUYY" build-Id="2"/> /// @vendor is as reported by O-RU /// @code is a regular expression that is checked against productCode reported by O-RU /// @name is optional and used for human reading - SHALL NOT be used for other purposes! /// @buildId is value of build@id (see below) </products> <builds> <build id="1" bldName="xyz" bldVersion="1.0"> /// @id is index of available builds and corresponds to attribute build-Id in the tag "product". /// @bldName and @bldVersion are used in YANG (build-name, build-version) <file fileName="xxxx" fileVersion="1.0" path="full-file_name-with-path-relative-to- package -root-folder" checksum="FAA898"/> <file fileName="yyyy" fileVersion="2.0" path="full-file_name-with-path-relative-to- package -root-folder" checksum="AEE00C"/ > /// @fileName and @fileVersion are used in YANG (name, version) /// @fileVersion may be used as a handle to identify a specific path used when archiving different file versions /// @path is full path (with name and extension) of a physical file, relative to package root folder, used in YANG (local-path) /// @checksum is used to check file integrity on O-RU side </build> <build id="2" bldName="xyz" bldVersion="1.0"> <file fileName="xxxx" fileVersion="1.0" path="full-file_name-with-path-relative-to- package -root-folder" checksum="FAA898"/> <file fileName="yyyy" fileVersion="2.0" path="full-file_name-with-path-relative-to- package -root-folder" checksum="AEE00C"/ > <file fileName="zzzz" fileVersion="1.5" path="full-file_name-with-path-relative-to- package -root-folder" checksum="ABCDEF"/ > </build> </builds> </manifest> </xml> Keywords in manifest.xml example are in bold, the keywords shall be strictly followed. Correspondence between content of manifest.xml tags, their attributes and content of o-ran-software-management.yang is:
- XML tag "product", attribute "vendor" corresponds to content leaf "vendor-code",
- XML tag "product", attribute "code" corresponds to content of leaf "product-code",
- XML tag "product", attribute "build-Id" corresponds to content of leaf "build-id",
- XML tag "build", attribute "id" corresponds to leaf "build-id",
- XML tag "build", attribute "bldName" corresponds to content of leaf "build-name",
- XML tag "build", attribute "bldVersion" corresponds to content of leaf "build-version",
- XML tag "file", attribute "fileName" corresponds to content of leaf "name" in list "files",
- XML tag "file", attribute "fileVersion" corresponds to content of leaf "version" in list "files".

## 8.4 Software inventory
Pre-condition:
- M-Plane NETCONF session established.
Post-condition:
- NETCONF client successfully collected the software inventory information from NETCONF server.
get RPC filtered over the software-slot container. The response contains information about each software slot and its contents. The following information is provided by software-inventory reply message: a) name - name of the software slot (the name is defined by the O-RU vendor) b) status - status of the software slot. Status of the software in the slot can be
- VALID - Slot contains a software build considered as proven valid.
- INVALID - software build in the software slot cannot be used by O-RU. The software is considered
by the O-RU as damaged (e.g. wrong CRC). Failed software install operation can cause a slot status to change to "Invalid".
- NETCONF client shall not activate a software slot that is invalid. Activation of a software slot containing
an invalid software build shall be rejected by O-RU.
- EMPTY - software slot does not contain any software files. NETCONF client shall not activate an
empty software slot. Activation of an empty software slot shall be rejected by O-RU. c) active - indicates if the software stored in particular slot is activated at the moment.
- True - software slot is activated. Active::True can be assigned only for slots with status "Valid". At
any time, only one slot in the O-RU shall be marked as active::True. The O-RU shall reject activation for software slots with status "Empty" and "Invalid".
- False - software slot is not active.
d) running - informs if software stored in particular slot is used at the moment.
- True - software slot contains the software build used by the O-RU in its current run.
- False - software slot does not contain the software build used by O-RU at the moment.
e) access – informs about access rights for the current slot.
- READ_ONLY – The slot is intended only for factory software. Activation of such software slot means
performing a factory reset operation and a return to factory defaults settings.
- READ_WRITE – slot used for updating software.
f) product-code - product code provided by the vendor, specific to the product. g) vendor-code - unique code of the vendor. h) build-id - Identity associated with the software build. This id is used to find the appropriate build-version for the product consist of the vendor-code and the product-code. i) build-name - Name of the software build. j) build-version - Version of the software build for the product consist of the vendor-code and the product-code. k) files - list of files in the software slot
- name - name of one particular file
- version - version of the file
- local-path - complete path of the file on local file system
- integrity - result of the file integrity check
▪ OK - file integrity is correct ▪ NOK - file is corrupted If a slot contains a file with integrity::NOK, the O-RU shall mark the slot with status::INVALID. The content of a software-slot is fully under O-RU's management - including removal of the content occupying the slot (in case the slot is subject of software update procedure), control of file system consistency and so on. The slot content shall not be removed until there is a need for new software to be installed. The empty slot parameters shall be as follows: name: up to vendor, not empty status: "EMPTY" active: False running: False access: READ_WRITE product-code: up to vendor vendor code: up to vendor build-name: null (empty string) build-version: null (empty string) files: empty list

## 8.5 Download
Pre-condition:
- M-Plane NETCONF session established.
- O-RU Controller has subscribed to receive download-event notifications.
- O-RU controller has validated presence of data node build-content-download at O-RU.
Post-condition:
- O-RU has downloaded the file specified and has successfully stored the downloaded file in the O-RU's file
system. software-download: a) password for RU authentication and list of public keys (see clause 5.4 in the present document) for sFTP server authentication. Following types of authentications may be supported for software-download: b) X.509 certificate for authentication of FTPES client (O-RU) and FTPES server. c) certificate for both O-RU and sFTP server authentication. The software-download RPC is used to trigger the downloading of software files to the O-RU. The download shall be performed using either sFTP or FTPES. Based on presence of data node build-content-download, O-RU controller shall provide either path to a file in a build or path to a software package file as input to software-download RPC. The RPC shall specify the URI of the remote location of the software files using the remote-file-path leaf, where the URI scheme is used to signal whether to use sFTP or FTPES. An O-RU Controller shall only trigger software-download using FTPES if it is using NETCONF/TLS to configure the O-RU. The O-RU shall send an immediate rpc-reply message with one of following statuses: a) STARTED – software download operation has been started. b) FAILED – software download operation could not be proceeded, reason for failure in error-message. The O-RU shall download the file from file server. When the O-RU completes the software download or software download fails, the O-RU shall send the download-event notification with one of the following statuses: a) COMPLETED. b) AUTHENTICATION_ERROR - source available, wrong credentials. c) PROTOCOL_ERROR – sFTP or FTPES protocol error. d) FILE_NOT_FOUND - source not available. e) APPLICATION_ERROR - operation failed due to internal reason. f) TIMEOUT - source available, credentials OK, Operation timed out (e.g. source becomes unavailable during ongoing operation). g) INTEGRITY_ERROR – file is corrupted. An O-RU that supports integrity check at download shall expose YANG feature cINTEGRITY-CHECK-AT-SW- DOWNLOAD". O-DU can enable the feature by configuring type empty parameter integrity-check-at-download- enabled. O-RU may send download-event with status INTEGRITY_ERROR when integrity-check-at-download- enabled is presented.
> NOTE: O-RU can obtain information of expected checksum either from manifest.xml or from information
embedded in the file. O-RU controller shall repeat the above procedure until all files which are required by the O-RU have been downloaded to the O-RU. To determine all files needed by O-RU, the O-RU Controller uses content of manifest.xml and relies on presence of data node build-content-download.

## 8.6 Install
Pre-condition:
- M-Plane NETCONF session established.
- At least one software slot with status active::False and running::False exists in O-RU.
- Software Download has been completed successfully and all files required by the O-RU are available in O-RU.
- O-RU Controller has subscribed to receive install-event notifications.
Post-condition:
- O-RU software file(s) is/are installed in the specified target software-slot.
downloaded software (i.e. all necessary) to the specified target software-slot on O-RU. The list of file-names in install-input shall not be empty. This slot shall have status active::False and running::False. The O-RU shall send an immediate rpc-reply message with one of following statuses: a) STARTED - software install operation has been started. b) FAILED - software install operation could not be proceeded, reason for failure in error-message. When O-RU completes the software install or software install procedure fails, the O-RU shall send the install-event notification with one of the following statuses: a) COMPLETED - Install procedure is successfully completed. b) FILE_ERROR - operation on the file resulted in in error, disk failure, not enough disk space, incompatible file format c) INTEGRITY_ERROR - file is corrupted. d) APPLICATION_ERROR - operation failed due to internal reason. e) TIMEOUT - install operation timed out. When the software install commences, the O-RU shall set the slot status to INVALID. After the install procedure finishes, the O-RU shall change the slot status to its appropriate status. O-RU shall not change the status of the slot when the install procedure is ongoing or when it is interrupted (e.g. by spurious reset operation).

## 8.7 Bringing software into operation

### 8.7.1 Procedure
Two steps are required to bring O-RU software into operation. The first step uses RPC software-activate to activate software in a slot. The second step, which may be delayed as per operator's decision until a suitable time, uses a reset RPC to take the activated software into operation. The information about which slot is active shall be reset persistent.
> NOTE: In certain circumstances, for example when performing a vendor defined O-RU recovery mechanism, the
O-RU can start up using other software than the software in active slot before reset (e.g. factory default software).

### 8.7.2 Software activation
Pre-condition:
- M-Plane NETCONF session established.
- Software slot to be activated has status VALID.
- O-RU Controller has subscribed to receive activation-event notifications.
Post-condition:
- For activated slot the parameter active is set to TRUE. At the same time the parameter active for previously
operational slot is set to FALSE by the O-RU. Parameter running is not changed for any of O-RU's software slots. This indicates that O-RU is still running software from previously active slot. The name of the software-slot is specified in the activate request. The O-RU shall send an immediate rpc-reply message with one of following statuses: a) STARTED - software activation operation has been started. b) FAILED - software activation operation could not be proceeded, reason for failure in error-message. When the activation is completed, the O-RU shall send the activation-event notification with the status of activation. The following status is returned in the activation-event notifications. a) COMPLETED - Activation procedure is successfully completed. O-RU can be restarted via NETCONF reset rpc for the new software to be activated. b) APPLICATION_ERROR - operation failed due to internal reason. Only one software slot can be active at any time. Thus, successful software-activate command sets active to true for the slot that was provided in the RPC and O-RU sets active to false for the previously active slot.

### 8.7.3 Reset

# A O-RU reset is required to take the activated software into operation. See clause 9.5 for details of how an O-RU
controller can trigger reset operation.

## 8.8 Software update scenario
An example scenario of a successful software update procedure can be as follows. The present document does not distinguish between a software upgrade and a downgrade. 1) NETCONF client performs a software inventory operation and identifies that an inactive and not-running slot for installing software is available so that it can download and install a software package. 2) NETCONF client validates whether the O-RU has data node build-content-download. 3) In case the O-RU does not expose build-content-download, NETCONF client, knowing target SW version, O-RU product type and manifest.xml content, determines the software package zip file(s) to be downloaded. 4) In case the O-RU exposes data node build-content-download, NETCONF client, knowing target SW version, O-RU product type and manifest.xml content, determines the desired build name, build version and software files in the build to be downloaded. 5) NETCONF client using the software-download RPC triggers the O-RU to download a file (if several files are required, steps 5-7 need to be performed repeatedly until all files needed by O-RU have been downloaded). 6) O-RU sends RPC response that download was started. 7) O-RU finishes downloading the file(s) and reports this by sending the download-event notification. 8) NETCONF client requests installation of the software using software-install RPC, and provides the slot name where the software needs to be installed along with a list of filenames to be installed.
> NOTE: list of files to be installed cannot be empty.
9) O-RU sends RPC response that installation was started 10) O-RU sets installation slot status to INVALID. 11) O-RU installs the software and after successful installation (with checksum control) changes status of the slot to VALID. 12) O-RU notifies the notification subscriber that the installation is finished using install-event notification. 13) NETCONF client requests the O-RU to activate the slot that contains the newly installed software using the software-activate rpc. 14) O-RU sends RPC response that activation was started. 15) For requested slot, O-RU changes active to true and at the same time sets active to false for previously active slot. 16) O-RU notifies the notification subscriber about activation finished using the activation-event notification. 17) NETCONF client restarts the O-RU forcing it to use the newly installed and activated software. Refer to clause

## 9.5 O-RU reset for detailed information.

## 8.9 Factory reset
An O-RU that support a read only slot can perform this procedure. O-RU can be reset to the factory default software by activating the software-slot containing the factory default software and initiating NETCONF reset RPC. O-RU may clear persistent memory data during factory reset as vendor implementation option. Factory default software may have limited functionality and O-RU that runs on factory default SW will typically require a software update before it can be fully functional (for example carry traffic). Factory default software shall support all functionality needed to perform a software update.

# 9 Configuration management

## 9.1 Baseline configuration

### 9.1.1 NETCONF operations
The O-RU shall use the ietf-yang-library mode, as specified in RFC 8525 [59] to signal the namespaces of the YANG models supported by the NETCONF Server. When the O-RU signals it supports the YANG module for NETCONF Monitoring, as specified in RFC 6022 [67], an O-RU Controller shall be able to retrieve the models from the O-RU using the <get-schema> operation. Clause 9 describes NETCONF standard operation (edit-config/get-config/get) as specified in clause 7 of RFC 6241 [3] which belongs to the CM in Module to modify/retrieve any parameters in YANG modules. Examples below use o-ran- hardware as an example YANG module. The following scenarios are feasible for Configuration Management purposes: 1) 1 phase (modify) operation using writable running datastore. 2) 2 phase (modify/commit) operation using candidate datastore. 3) 3 phase (modify/commit/confirm) operation using candidate datastore. As described in clause 6.6, the NETCONF client can use sub-tree based <filter> and XPath based <filter> to recover particular sub-trees from the O-RU. When using XPath filtering, the O-RU returns a node-set which matches the criteria expressed in the XPath. An example of a get operation with XPath based filtering is shown in Figure 9.1.1-1. <rpc message-id="101" xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0"> <get> <source> <running/> </source> <!-- get all critical alarms --> <filter xmlns:o-ran-fm="urn:o-ran:fm:1.0" type="xpath" select="/o-ran-fm:active-alarm-list/o-ran-fm:active-alarms[o-ran-fm:fault- severity='CRITICAL']"/> </get> </rpc>

### 9.1.2 Retrieve state
O-RU Controller is able to retrieve state which is defined in o-ran-hardware by using NETCONF <get> procedure, as illustrated in Figure 9.1.2-1. Preconditions:
- O-RU Controller has completed exchange of NETCONF capabilities as part of connection establishment
between O-RU and O-RU Controllers. Post conditions:
- O-RU controller has retrieved O-RU state as per <get> request.

### 9.1.3 Modify state
For O-RUs that support the optional hardware-state feature defined in ietf-hardware, the O-RU Controller is able to change state which can be configurable by using NETCONF <edit-config> procedure without reset, as illustrated in The configurable state is admin-state defined in o-ran-hardware YANG model. In case of a failure, an error shall be returned. Refer to RFC 6241 [3] Appendix A for error codes. The vendor can define the behaviour after the error occurred. The power-state is read-only state defined in o-ran-hardware.yang. This state is only exposed by the O-RUs supporting ENERGYSAVING feature and is used by O-RU to inform if unit is in energy saving state, not in energy saving state or in transition between energy saving state and non-energy saving state. The followings are the information of state transition for each state. [admin-state] The admin-state transition diagram for the O-RU is illustrated in Figure 9.1.3-2.
- locked: This state indicates that any resource activation is prohibited for the O-RU and all resources have been
deactivated administratively. The O-RU shall ensure all RF emissions have been shut down. When O-RU's admin state is locked, all its tx-array-carriers and rx-array-carriers parameter active are set by NETCONF server autonomously to "INACTIVE" and state are "DISABLED". When O-RU's administrative-state is LOCKED, O-RU shall reject NETCONF client’s request to set tx-array-carrier and rx-array-carrier parameter active to "ACTIVE". Antenna lines and ALD ports on the O-RU are powered off. O-RU shall reject NETCONF configuration to power on the ALD port and antenna lines.
- shutting-down: That usage is administratively limited to current instances of use. It is optional. For admin state
transition using autonomous trigger from shutting-down to state locked, refer to X.731 [77] Figures 5 and 6.
- unlocked: This state indicates that any resource activation is allowed and any resources can be active. The state
"unlocked" is the initial state after the reset of the O-RU. [power-state] The power-state transition diagram for O-RU is presented in Figure 9.1.3-3. This state can be indirectly controlled by editing the parameters energy-saving-enabled and [tr]x-array-carrier::active, as illustrated in Figure 9.1.3-3.
- AWAKE: This value of power-state node indicates that the O-RU is operating normally, i.e. not in energy
saving mode. AWAKE is the initial value of power-state node after the reset of the O-RU. AWAKE is power- state of O-RU in case energy-saving-enabled is FALSE or when at least one carrier is active.
- SLEEPING: This value of power-state node indicates that the O-RU is in energy saving mode. M-plane
connection and functions are alive whereas other C/U/S functions may be autonomously stopped by the O-RU if there is no active carrier and value of energy-saving-enabled is TRUE - to reduce energy consumption.
- UNKNOWN: This value of power-state node can be exposed by the O-RU e.g. in case the O-RU does not
know its power-state value is AWAKE or SLEEPING. This value of power-state node is optional. When the value of any of the following states changes, an O-RU supporting feature hardware-state shall send the hardware-state-change notification to the notification subscriber:
- admin-state, oper-state, usage-state (as specified in ietf-hardware.yang)
- power-state, availability-state (as specified in o-ran-hardware.yang)
In case of 'oper-state' change, if the O-RU supports the feature hardware-state, the O-RU shall send two notifications to the notification subscriber(s): the hardware-state-change notification and the hardware-state-oper- disabled/enabled notification. On receiving the notification, the notification subscriber should read the state by using get RPC operation. [oper-state] O-RU’s oper-state is not configurable. It reflects whether the O-RU can provide service or not. The oper-state transition diagram for O-RU is presented in Figure 9.1.3-5. enabled: O-RU is partially or fully operational. disabled: O-RU is not operational. This is the initial state of oper-state after the reset of the O-RU
- O-RU Controller is able to reset the O-RU, even if the O-RU state is "disabled" or "enabled".
[availability-state] The availability-state transition diagram for the O-RU is presented in Figure 9.1.3-6. The availability state is derived from detected and active faults and their impact to O-RU's operation. The availability state is not affected by faults caused by external reasons.
- normal: There is no fault.
- degraded: When major or critical fault affecting module or any of O-RU's subcomponents (e.g. transmitter) is
active.
- faulty: The critical fault affecting whole O-RU is active and O-RU cannot continue any services.
[usage-state] The usage-state transition diagram for the O-RU is presented in Figure 9.1.3-7.
- idle: No carrier is configured in O-RU.
- active: The carrier(s) is(are) configured in O-RU.
- busy: No more carrier can be configured in O-RU.

### 9.1.4 Retrieve parameters
O-RU Controller is able to retrieve parameters of the YANG module by using NETCONF <get> or <get-config> procedure, as illustrated in Figure 9.1.4-1. Preconditions:
- O-RU Controller has completed exchange of NETCONF capabilities as part of connection establishment
between O-RU and O-RU Controller(s). Post conditions:
- O-RU controller has retrieved O-RU parameters as per <get><source><running/><filter> or <get-
config><source><running/><filter> request.

### 9.1.5 Modify parameters
Before an O-RU Controller modifies the configuration (candidate or running) of an O-RU, it shall first lock the target configuration. This prevents other NETCONF clients from changing the shared configuration database until the O-RU Controller releases the lock. If another NETCONF client has already locked the configuration datastore, then the O-RU shall respond with a NETCONF error indicating that the requested lock is denied. In such circumstances, the O-RU controller should wait for a period of time before re-attempting to modify the O-RU's configuration. O-RU Controller is able to modify parameters of the YANG module by using the NETCONF <edit-config> procedure, as illustrated in Figure 9.1.5-1. When supported by an O-RU, the O-RU Controller shall perform any required modify operations ONLY on the candidate configuration datastore before committing the validated configuration to the running configuration datastore. When an O-RU does not support the candidate configuration datastore, the O-RU Controller should take extreme care whenever modifying the running configuration datastore as such will likely impact system operation.
> NOTE: Validation of the modified configuration is based on:
1) basic YANG constraints (e.g. min-elements, range, pattern), 2) XPATH based YANG constraints (e.g. leafref, must and when statements), and 3) external code which implements YANG constraints (e.g. defined in O-RAN specifications, YANG description statements, etc.). In case of failures, an error shall be returned. Refer to RFC 6241 [3] Appendix A for error codes. The vendor can define the behaviour after error occurred. Preconditions:
- O-RU Controller has completed exchange of NETCONF capabilities as part of connection establishment
between the O-RU and O-RU Controller(s).
- O-RU Controller has locked the target configuration.
Post conditions:
- O-RU controller has retrieved O-RU resource state as per <edit-config> request:
- Success case: The update is confirmed to O-RU Controller.
- Failure case: Failure reason is provided to O-RU Controller
Sequential processing is assumed. Only a single <edit-config> rpc is allowed at a time. Next <edit-config> rpc shall be performed after previous <edit-config> rpc reply. O-RU shall be allowed to reject <edit-config> in case the content is found to be against e.g. functions supported by O- RU - like carrier configured out of band. After the modification procedure is complete, the O-RU Controller releases the lock on the target configuration.

### 9.1.6 Deleting parameters
Before an O-RU Controller deletes any configuration (candidate or running) of an O-RU, it shall first lock the target configuration. This prevents other NETCONF clients from changing the shared configuration database until the O-RU Controller releases the lock. If another NETCONF client has already locked the configuration datastore, then the O-RU shall respond with a NETCONF error indicating that the requested lock is denied. In such circumstances, the O-RU controller should wait for a period of time before re-attempting to delete the O-RU's configuration. O-RU Controller is able to delete parameters of the YANG module by using the NETCONF <edit-config> procedure with the "operation" attribute set to delete, as illustrated in Figure 9.1.6-1. If the configuration data does not exist, an <rpc-error> element is returned with an <error-tag> value of "data-missing". When supported by an O-RU, the O-RU Controller shall perform any required delete operations ONLY on the candidate configuration datastore before committing the validated configuration to the running configuration datastore. When an O-RU does not support the candidate configuration datastore, the O-RU Controller should take extreme care whenever modifying the running configuration datastore as such will likely impact system operation. Preconditions:
- O-RU Controller has completed exchange of NETCONF capabilities as part of connection establishment
between the O-RU and O-RU Controller(s).
- O-RU Controller has locked the target configuration.
Post conditions:
- O-RU controller has updated the O-RU resource state as per <edit-config> request:
- Success case: The delete is confirmed to O-RU Controller.
- Failure case: Failure reason is provided to O-RU Controller
Sequential processing is assumed. Only a single <edit-config> rpc is allowed at a time. Next <edit-config> rpc shall be performed after previous <edit-config> rpc reply. Delete Parameters is used to:
- delete parameters of existing configuration.
After the delete procedure is complete, the O-RU Controller releases the lock on the target configuration.

### 9.1.7 Notification framework

#### 9.1.7.1 General
YANG notifications are used to signal event information to notification subscribers. The present document support two types of subscriptions for receiving YANG notifications:
- dynamic, which is supported by all O-RUs, and
- configured, which is supported by O-RUs that support the NON-PERSISTENT-MPLANE feature.

#### 9.1.7.2 Event streams
All O-RUs shall support the default "NETCONF" event stream, as specified in clause 3.2.3 of RFC 5277 [21]. In addition to the default event stream, O-RUs should support the following event streams:
- "fault-management" used to subscribe to YANG notification events defined in o-ran-fm YANG model.
- "measurement-result-stats" used to subscribe to YANG notification events defined in o-ran-performance-
management YANG model.
- "supervision-notification" used to subscribe to YANG notification events defined in o-ran-supervision YANG
model.

#### 9.1.7.3 Event stream discovery and subscription
An O-RU controller discovers the O-RU's ability to process and send event notifications via capability exchange, as defined in clause 3.1 of RFC 5277 [21]. The O-RU shall support event stream discovery as defined in clause 3.2.5 of RFC 5277 [21]. Prior to initiating a dynamic subscription to an event stream, an O-RU controller can discover the O-RU's supported event streams. Refer to clause 3.2.5 of RFC 5277 [21] for detail. All O-RUs shall support event stream subscription using the <create-subscription> RPC specified in clause 2 of RFC 5277 [21]. An O-RU may support event stream subscription using <establish-subscription> RPC specified in clause 2.4 of RFC8639 [37]. An O-RU indicates it supports <establish-subscription> by including the ietf-subscribed-notifications YANG model in its YANG library. An O-RU supporting event stream subscription using <establish-subscription> RPC shall be able to support concurrent operation of <establish-subscription> and <create-subscription> RPCs on separate NETCONF sessions. If the O-RU supports the NON-PERSISTENT-MPLANE feature, the O-RU shall maintain the streams container as defined in clause 3.1 of RFC 8639 [37]. An O-RU controller supporting RFC 8639 [37] operating with an O-RU that supports the NON-PERSISTENT-MPLANE feature may use the streams container to recover the list of available streams supported by the O-RU. The O-RU supported event streams can be subscribed using dynamic subscriptions and, for those O-RUs that support the NON-PERSISTENT-MPLANE feature, using configured subscriptions. These are transported using NETCONF and VES respectively.
- When no <stream> parameter is provided at creation of subscription, the default "NETCONF" stream is
subscribed.
- The "NETCONF" default event stream can be subscribed to by all O-RU controllers. Events defined in the
YANG modules to which the O-RU controller does not have "execute" access privileges, i.e. modules without an "X" in Table 6.5-1, shall be excluded before the events which are sent to the subscriber.
- For non-default streams, the NACM "execute" privileges defined in clause 6.5 shall be used by the O-RU to
determine whether an O-RU controller has privileges to establish a subscription to a particular non-default event-stream. An O-RU Controller that has used the <establish-subscription> RPC to subscribe to an event stream may cancel the subscription by using the <delete-subscription> RPC. An O-RU receiving a <delete-subscription> RPC for an existing subscription-id shall cease sending notification messages for this subscription.

### 9.1.8 Transactions and configuration data validity
An O-RU shall ensure that its configuration datastore has always been updated with any modified configuration before sending the <rpc-reply><ok/></rpc-reply> in response to a transaction that is intended to update the O-RU’s system configuration. Except when using the o-ran-uplane-conf YANG model to configure the carrier configuration as described in clause 15.3, the O-RU’s system implementation of the modification to its running configuration should occur before sending the <rpc-reply> message. In the case of o-ran-uplane-conf YANG model based carrier configuration, because implementation of the carrier activation/deactivation/energy savings can require operation of some closed loop control system, the YANG model defines the following notifications that allow a subscribing O-RU controller to be signalled when a configuration change has been implemented:
- tx-array-carriers-state-change: used to be able to notify subscribers that the changes to a tx-array-carrier
have been implemented.
- rx-array-carriers-state-change: used to be able to notify subscribers that the changes to an rx-array-carrier
have been implemented.
- data-layer-control-wakeup-notification: used to be able to notify subscribers that the changes to energy-
savings group have been implemented.
- mplane-trx-control-ant-mask-update: used to be able to notify subscribers that the changes to the antenna
mask have been implemented.
- max-power-level-used: used to indicate max output power level that is used for a tx-array.
In the above cases, the O-RU may send the <rpc-reply><ok/></rpc-reply> before the updated configuration has been implemented. This avoids extended periods of time when the configuration would otherwise be locked while configuration changes are implemented.

### 9.1.9 YANG model support for target value configuration and used-value
retrieval An O-RU may support target value configuration which means that the O-DU configures a target value for a configuration and the O-RU returns its used-value which is an approximation of the target value that is suitable for the O-RU. Parameters can have individual restrictions regarding how this approximation or selection shall be done (see relevant clauses describing the parameters in CUS-plane specification). The following steps show the general procedure to perform such target value configuration method, as illustrated in 1) The O-DU configures the O-RU using <rpc><edit-config> consisting of one or more parameter(s) (e.g. eq- scale-offset-config, sinr-reference-level-config, etc.) with target value(s). 2) The O-RU sets the used-value(s) in corresponding read-only parameter(s) (e.g. eq-scale-offset-used, sinr- reference-level-used) for the configured target value(s). 3) The O-RU replies <rpc-reply>. 4) The O-DU receives the O-RU’s rpc reply, which indicates the configuration process in steps 1 and 2 is finished. The used-value(s) of the read-only parameter(s) (e.g. eq-scale-offset-used, sinr-reference-level- used) are available. 5) The O-DU retrieves the used-value(s) from the O-RU using <rpc><get> when the O-DU wants, e.g. before carrier activation. 6) The O-DU receives the used-value(s) of the read-only parameter(s), so the O-DU is aware of precise value(s) selected and used by the O-RU.

## 9.2 Framework for optional feature handling
This clause describes the common and optional features about Configuration Management. An O-RU may have some features which are not supported by other O-RUs, i.e. optional feature(s). In this case, the O- RU needs to inform the O-RU controller which features the O-RU can provide, and this can be achieved by exchanging NETCONF capabilities. Some of the YANG models are optional for the O-RU to support. For example, in this version of the management plane specification, those models associated with External IO and Antenna Line Devices are not essential for the operation of the O-RAN fronthaul interface. Other mandatory models define optional feature capabilities. Both the NETCONF Server and NETCONF Client shall use the ietf-yang-library mode, as specified in RFC 8525 [59] to signal the namespaces of the models supported by the NETCONF Server. If an O-RU/NETCONF Server does not return the namespace associated with an optional YANG model, the NETCONF Client determines that the O- RU/NETCONF Server does not support the optional capability associated with the model. In addition, for each supported schema, the ietf-yang-library lists the YANG feature names from this module that are supported by the server. The details of optional models and features are defined in clause C.

## 9.3 M-Plane operational state
The o-ran-mplane-int YANG model allows the O-RU to report the connectivity to NETCONF clients on a per sub- interface level. The client information shall include the IP address(es) for the client(s) as well as the link-layer address used to forward packets towards the various management plane clients.

## 9.4 Notification of updates to configuration datastore

### 9.4.1 Introduction
This clause defines an optional O-RU capability which allows O-RU Controllers to configure the O-RU to provide notifications of modifications to its YANG datastore. This capability can be used when the O-RU is operating in a hybrid environment with multiple simultaneous NETCONF sessions established to different O-RU controllers. Using this capability, one particular O-RU controller uses the NETCONF notifications functionality as specified in RFC 6470 [35] to enable it to be automatically signalled changes to the O-RU's configuration made by a second O-RU controller. Additionally, if the O-RU supports a vendor specific interface to allow manual configuration, this functionality can also be used to signal such configuration modifications to an O-RU Controller.

### 9.4.2 Subscribing to updates from an O-RU
When an O-DU receives an indication from an O-RU that it supports the optional capability to support notification of updates to its configuration data store, as a minimum, it may subscribe to the netconf-config-change notification. An example event notification is shown in Figure 9.4.2-1, where a notification indicates that the configuration of the O- RU's timezone offset has been modified by a second O-RU controller. <notification xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:notification:1.0"> <eventTime>2020-03-01T08:00:14.12Z</eventTime> <netconf-config-change xmlns= "urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-netconf- notifications"> <id>102</id> <changed-by> <username>nms-user</username> <session-id>1099</session-id> <source-host>10.10.10.10</source-host> </changed-by> <datastore>running</datastore> <edit> <target>/oran-ops:operational-info/oran-ops:clock/oran- ops:timezoneutc-offset</target> <operation>replace</operation> </edit> </netconf-config-change> </notification>

## 9.5 Resetting O-RU

### 9.5.1 O-RU reset procedure
An O-RU reset may be triggered by an O-RU controller or autonomously triggered by an O-RU, e.g. as a result of supervision failure specified in clause 14.1.1.

### 9.5.2 O-RU controller triggered O-RU reset operation
The reset procedure can be used by an O-RU controller to trigger the reset of the O-RU. The reset of an O-RU shall trigger the O-RU to perform a re-start and follow the procedures defined in clause 6.

### 9.5.3 O-RU controller triggered O-RU reset procedure
O-RU Controller is able to trigger the reset of an O-RU by using the reset rpc, as illustrated in Figure 9.5.3-1. Pre-condition:
- M-Plane connection is established and running between O-RU and O-RU controller.
Post-condition:
- O-RU performs reset followed by start-up sequence described in clause 6.

# 10 Performance management

## 10.1 General
This clause provides the description of scenarios related to performance management. It consists of 2 functions. One is for the measurement activation and the other is the collection of measurement results. Performance management key concepts: Measurement group: A group of measurement objects that belong to the same category, e.g. tx-stats. Each measurement-group is associated with a measurement-group identifier that is used in file management processing (See clause 10.3.2) Measurement object: Object on which performance is measured, e.g. RX_POWER, TX_POWER. Only when combined with a report-info, it defines a metric. Object unit: Granularity to measure the performance per measurement object, e.g. PORT_NUMBER, EAXC_ID. Report info: Type of the measurement, e.g. MAXIMUM, MINIMUM. Only when combined with a measurement- object, it defines a metric.

## 10.2 Measurement configuration, activation and de-activation
The measurement activation at the start-up installation is described in clause 6. This clause provides information about how to configure, activate and de-activate the performance measurement in an O-RU. The performance measurement schema nodes are defined in o-ran-performance-management YANG module. In case of multiple NETCONF clients, only one NETCONF client shall activate/deactivate the measurements in the O-RU. The O-RU shall support those measurements described as mandatory in clause 9.1 of the O-RAN CUS plane specification [2].
> NOTE 1: The naming convention of schema nodes that report capability for each measurement-group (in container
measurement-capabilities) uses an abbreviated form of the measurement-group name (enough to uniquely identify the measurement-group), ending with "-objects". e.g. transceiver-objects, rx-window- objects.
> NOTE 2: The naming convention of schema nodes that are used to configure each measurement-group uses an
abbreviated form of the measurement-group name (enough to uniquely identify the measurement-group), ending with "-measurement-objects". e.g. transceiver-measurement-objects, rx-window- measurement-objects.
> NOTE 3: The naming convention for schema node (list) to define notification content of each measurement-group
(as part of notification measurement-result-stats) uses measurement-group name, for example, ethernet-stats, tx-output-power-stats, etc. The detail of the measurement-group(s), including measurement-object(s), object-unit(s) and report-info(s) supported by M-Plane are defined in clause Annex B. For each measurement-group, at least one of the capabilities may be reported: supported measurement-object(s), supported report-info(s) per measurement-object and supported object-unit(s) per measurement-object. For each active measurement, the NETCONF client shall configure measurement-interval per measurement-group using respective measurement-interval parameter. It defines performance measurement periodicity, e.g. 300, 600, 900 seconds. measurement-objects belong to a measurement-group inherit the measurement-group measurement- interval. NETCONF client can configure a measurement-group with measurement-objects belonging to it. For each measurement-object, object-unit and report-info(s) are configured. For selected report-info, the NETCONF Client may configure additional parameters, e.g. function, bin-count, upper-bound, lower-bound. Measurement shall be activated using parameter active per measurement-object when report-info(s) and measurement-interval for the measurement-object is/are configured. A measurement-object can be activated and deactivated at any time.
- When different measurement-group(s) have intervals with a common factor, the O-RU shall synchronise the
boundary of these intervals with this factor, irrespective of when the different measurement-objects are activated, as illustrated in Figure 10.2-1. All of start points of the measurement-intervals of measurement- groups shall be synchronised to zero o'clock mid-night by using an equation {full seconds (hour, minute and second) modulo 'measurement-interval' = 0}, in order to ensure the same start and end of the measurement- intervals between O-RUs. For more details see the following illustration.
- The start-time and end-time indicate the time of measurement start and end for the measurement-object at
each measurement-interval. The modification of the configurable parameters (except active) for the measurement-object shall be allowed only while active for the corresponding measurement-object has value FALSE. Removal of measurement-object(s) from a measurement-group configurations (by configuring schema nodes, e.g. transceiver-measurement-objects, rx- window-measurement-objects, etc.) shall be allowed only when active for those intended to be removed measurement-object(s) has value FALSE. An O-RU Controller may configure multiple report-info(s) for a measurement-object. A metric is defined by a measurement-object and a report-info. The metric value is re-initialised at the beginning of each measurement- interval. For the first measurement-interval, due to varying start-time (due to varying activation time), if the duration of the first interval is insufficient for the O-RU to calculate valid measurement values, the O-RU may skip sending the measurement report for the first measurement-interval.

## 10.3 Collection and reporting of measurement result

### 10.3.0 Introduction
This clause provides the description of scenarios used to collect measurement results. There are three options: 1) NETCONF process: Create-subscription from NETCONF client and NETCONF notification from NETCONF server are used. 2) File Management process: File upload mechanism is used to transfer the measurement file from O-RU to configured file server(s) that O-RU can reach to. 3) Configured subscription process: Create configured subscription from O-RU as Event-Producer to Event- Collector. Methods 1 and 2 are mandatory for the O-RU. Method 3 shall be supported by those O-RUs that support the optional NON-PERSISTENT-MPLANE feature. The method(s) to be used is the matter of NETCONF client. In case of multiple NETCONF clients and/or Event-Collectors, the O-RU shall report the same notification-based measurement results to all subscribed NETCONF clients/Event-Collectors, and the O-RU shall upload file-based results to all configured fileservers.

### 10.3.1 NETCONF process for dynamic subscriptions
This process needs the NETCONF capability: urn:ietf:params:netconf:capability:notification:1.0. 1) NETCONF client subscribes to one or more measurement group(s) and/or measurement-object(s) to collect the measurement result by sending NETCONF <create-subscription> to NETCONF server in the O-RU. In this message, startTime and stopTime for the notification may be configurable. NETCONF client can configure the notification-interval in the performance-management YANG module. 2) NETCONF server sends NETCONF notification messages periodically to the client as configured by the notification-interval. The NETCONF notification message contains subscribed measurement group(s) and/or measurement-object(s). The notification-interval does not need to be same as the measurement-interval. The notification timing different from the measurement-interval is a matter to O-RU implementation. This procedure is described in Figure 10.3.1-1.

# A NETCONF client may use the create-subscription for the single event-stream "measurement-result-stats", or alternatively subscribe the default event-stream using additional filter criteria to identify those measurements of interest
to the client. In order to subscribe multiple notifications, the appropriate create-subscription message is required. Refer to clause 11.3 for the appropriate example of create-subscription of multiple notifications. In order to terminate the subscription, the NETCONF client shall send <close-session> operation from the subscription session or configuring the <stopTime> parameter when the subscription was created. If NETCONF session is terminated by <kill-session>, the subscribed notification is terminated as well. This procedure is described in Figure 10.3.1-2. When notification-interval is larger than measurement-interval, O-RUs implementing v07.00 or later of the present document may use a single notification that contains multiple stats included in the list such as multiple-transceiver- measurement-result, multiple-rx-window-measurement-result, multiple-tx-measurement-result, multiple-epe- measurement-result or multiple-symbol-rssi-measurement-result which have consecutive periods indicating start- time and end-time for the measurement.
> NOTE 2: When multiple measurements stats corresponding to the same measurement-group are available in an O-
RU that implements an earlier version of the present document, the O-RU is only able to include a single statistic in the notification. In such circumstances, the O-RU should report the latest available statistic in the notification.
> NOTE 3: An O-RU Controller that implements an earlier version of the present document can ensure that the
configuration of notification-interval and measurement-interval results in only a single measurement statistic corresponding to a specific measurement-group being reported by the O-RU in any one notification. In other cases, the O-RU Controller can use the rules defined in clause 4.3 to ignore the newly introduced schema-nodes for reporting multiple measurements. When notification-interval is smaller than measurement-interval, one notification may not contain the stats which start-time and end-time are not applicable to the period for the notification. For example, when notification-interval = 60min, measurement-interval for measurement-object#A= 30min and measurement-interval for measurement-object#B = 15min, one notification contains 2 measurement results for measurement-object#A with consecutive start-time and end-time, and 4 measurement results for measurement- object#B with consecutive start-time and end-time. For the other example, when notification-interval = 15min, measurement-interval for measurement-object#A= 30min and measurement-interval for measurement-object#B = 15min, one notification contains one measurement results for measurement-object#B but not for measurement-object#A. next notification contains both measurements result for measurement-object#A and #B.

### 10.3.2 File management process
NETCONF client needs to configure a parameter of performance measurement YANG module 'enable-file-upload' to enable or disable the periodic file upload mechanism via NETCONF <edit-config>. Its default is FALSE. In addition, the performance measurement YANG module defines file-upload-interval, remote-file-upload-path, credentials information of the file server and enable-random-file-upload as configurable parameters. Following types of authentications shall be supported for performance file upload: a) Password for RU authentication and list of public keys (see clause 5.4 in the present document) for sFTP server authentication. Following types of authentications may be supported for performance file upload: b) X.509 Certificate for FTPES client (O-RU) and FTPES server. c) Certificate for both O-RU and sFTP server authentication. When the parameter enable-file-upload is set to TRUE, O-RU shall store the performance measurement files in the generic folder in O-RU, i.e. O-RAN/PM/ or o-ran/pm/. Every file-upload-interval, O-RU pushes the latest file to upload to the remote-file-upload-path of the configured SFTP/FTPES servers if enable-file-upload is set to TRUE. Otherwise, the performance measurement file is not created and uploaded. The O-RU shall use the URI scheme of the remote-file-path leaf to determine whether to use sFTP or FTPES for the file upload. The number of maximum performance files to be stored in O-RU simultaneously is a matter for O-RU implementation. The O-RU shall manage its own storage space by deleting the older files autonomously. An O-RU Controller shall only trigger file upload using FTPES if it is using NETCONF/TLS to configure the O-RU. The O-RU shall ensure that the start-time and the end-time within the name of the performance measurement file are synchronised with the same manner as measurement-interval by using file-upload-interval. If the parameter enable-random-file-upload is set to TRUE, the O-RU shall randomize the timing to upload SFTP or FTPES file after the performance measurement file is ready to upload. The randomized timing is an O-RU implementation matter and shall not be later than next file-upload-interval. The file name of the performance measurement is: C<start-time>_<end-time>_<name>.csv
- Starting with a capital letter "C".
- Format of <start-time> and <end-time> can be local time or UTC.
Local time format is YYYYMMDDHHMM+HHMM, indicating, year, month, day, hour, minute, timezone "+" or "-" , hour and minute for the time zone. UTC format is YYYYMMDDHHMMZ, indicating, year, month, day, hour, minute and with a special UTC designator ("Z") Time zone offset is provided by timezone-utc-offset in o-ran-operation.yang.
- <name> in ietf-hardware is used.
- "_" underscore is located between <start-time>, <end-time> and <name>.
- File extension is "csv" as csv format file.
Example of measurement file is:
- C201805181300+0900_201805181330+0900_ABC0123456.csv.
The file format of the performance measurement has following rule: 1) Each line starts with an identifier. The identifier should be used to identify each measurement-group defined by its row in Table B.1-1, e.g. transceiver-stats should be identified by an identifier of "1", rx-window-stats should be identified by a measurement-group identifier of "2" and tx-measurement-objects should be identified by a measurement-group of "3", etc.
> NOTE 1: The use of the identifier to identify a measurement group is only recommended in order to accommodate
an earlier release of the present document where the use of the identifier was ambiguous. 2) After the measurement-object identifier, the name of measurement-object, start-time, end-time are appended. 3) Then the object-unit and object-unit-id are appended, followed by the set of report-info are repeated in one line.
> NOTE 2: If the leading identifier is not used to signal a measurement-group, the measurement-group needs to be
derived from the object-unit. For example, an object-unit of "PORT_NUMBER" is used to identify the transceiver-stats measurement-group, and an object-unit of "ianahw:port" is used to identify an epe-stats measurement group for the ianahw:port hardware class.
> NOTE 3: If a measurement is referenced by multiple object-units, each object-unit and corresponding object-
unit-id are appended in turn. 4) When the YANG definition of the measurement-result-grouping includes one or more lists and multiple report-info parameters exist per object-unit, all of the report-info are consecutively listed until the next object-unit-id. The order of parameters, such as object-unit-id, report-info and additional information for the report-info, shall be same as the order of those listed in NETCONF notification defined in o-ran-performance- management YANG module. 5) When the YANG definition of the measurement-result-grouping includes one or more containers, the container name is included in the report-info.
> NOTE 4: In versions prior v13.0 of the present document, the use of the container name in the report-info was not
defined and hence how such measurement reports were encoded was not specified. Example of multiple transceiver measurements on one line is: 1, RX_POWER, 2018-05-18T13:00:00+09:00, 2018-05-18T13:15:00+09:00, PORT_NUMBER, 0, min, 0.10232, 2018-05-18T13:01:12+09:00, max, 1.5849, 2018-05-18T13:09:54+09:00
- Measurement-group identifier: 1 (transceiver-stats)
- Name of measurement-object: RX_POWER
- start-time: 2018-05-18T13:00:00+09:00 as measurement start-time.
- end-time: 2018-05-18T13:30:00+09:00 as measurement end-time
- object-unit: PORT_NUMBER
- object-unit-id: 0 (Port number 0)
- Report-Info:
- Minimum 0.10232 mW Rx input Power measured at 2018-05-18T13:01:12+09:00
- Maximum 1.589 mW Rx input Power measured at 2018-05-18T13:09:54+09:00
Example of multiple rx-window measurement results on one line is: 2, RX_LATE, 2018-05-18T13:00:00+09:00, 2018-05-18T13:30:00+09:00, EAXC_ID, 0, 123, 1, 153
- Measurement-group identifier: 2 (rx-window-stats)
- Name of measurement-object: RX_LATE
- start-time: 2018-05-18T13:00:00+09:00 as measurement start-time.
- end-time: 2018-05-18T13:30:00+09:00 as measurement end-time
- object-unit: EAXC_ID
- object-unit-id: 0 (EAXC_ID: 0)
- Count for EAXC_ID#0 : 123
- object-unit-id: 1 (EAXC_ID: 1)
- Count for EAXC_ID#1 : 153
Example of hardware class based reporting of epe statistics: 4, TEMPERATURE, 2018-05-18T13:00:00+09:00, 2018-05-18T13:15:00+09:00, or-hw:O-RU-POWER-AMPLIFIER, PA1, min, 25, max, 44, avg, 33
- Measurement-group identifier: 4 (epe-stats object)
- Name of measurement-object: TEMPERATURE
- start-time: 2018-05-18T13:00:00+09:00 as measurement start-time.
- end-time: 2018-05-18T13:30:00+09:00 as measurement end-time
- object-unit: or-hw:O-RU-POWER-AMPLIFIER (Power amplifier hardware class)
- object-unit-id: PA1 (the name associated with a power amplifier)
- Report-Info:
- minimum 25 degrees
- maximum 44 degrees
- average 33 degrees
Example of frequency bin based reporting of multiple symbol RSSI measurements: 5, ALL-UL-SYMBOLS, 2018-05-18T13:00:00+09:00, 2018-05-18T13:15:00+09:00, rx-array-carrier, RX-ARRAY- CARRIER1, frequency-bin-table, 0, 2046, 1, 9718, 2, 19437, 3, 15345, 4, 4092, 5, 511
- Measurement-group identifier: 5 (symbol-rssi-stats object)
- Name of measurement-object: ALL-UL-SYMBOLS
- start-time: 2018-05-18T13:00:00+09:00 as measurement start-time.
- end-time: 2018-05-18T13:30:00+09:00 as measurement end-time
- object-unit: rx-array-carrier
- object-unit-id: RX-ARRAY-CARRIER1 (the name associated with rx-array carrier)
- Report-Info corresponding to a frequency bin table:
- bin-id 0, value 2046
- bin-id 1, value 9718
- bin-id 2, value 19437
- bin-id 3, value 15345
- bin-id 4, value 4092
- bin-id 5, value 511
Example of combine reporting requiring multiple object-unit-id values: 6, RX_UP_UL_COMBINED, 2018-05-18T13:00:00+09:00, 2018-05-18T13:10:00+09:00, TRANSPORT, PROC_ELEMENT1, 123400, PROC_ELEMENT2, 123400
- Measurement-group identifier: 6 (shared-cell statistics object)
- Name of measurement-object: RX_UP_UL_COMBINED
- start-time: 2018-05-18T13:00:00+09:00 as measurement start-time.
- end-time: 2018-05-18T13:30:00+09:00 as measurement end-time
- object-unit: TRANSPORT
- object-unit-id: PROC_ELEMENT1 (Processing element name: "PROC_ELEMENT1")
- Count for PROC_ELEMENT1: 123400
- object-unit-id: PROC_ELEMENT2 (Processing element name: "PROC_ELEMENT2")
- Count for PROC_ELEMENT2: 102431
Example of frequency bin based reporting of VSWR measurements: 7, VSWR, 2023-10-02T13:00:00+02:00, 2023-10-02T13:30:00+02:00, ARRAY_ELEMENT, tx-array1:2, frequency-bin-table, 0, 21, 1, 37, 2, 77, 3, 11, 4, 101, 5, 1
- Measurement-group identifier: 7 (tx-antenna-stats object)
- Name of measurement-object: VSWR
- start-time: 2023-10-02T13:00:00+02:00 as measurement start-time.
- end-time: 2023-10-02T13:30:00+02:00 as measurement end-time
- object-unit: ARRAY_ELEMENT
- object-unit-id: tx-array1:2 (an array element k=2 on the tx-array named “tx-array-1”)
- Report-Info corresponding to a frequency bin table:
- bin-id 0, value 21
- bin-id 1, value 37
- bin-id 2, value 77
- bin-id 3, value 11
- bin-id 4, value 101
- bin-id 5, value 1
Example of reporting of TSSI measurements: 8, TSSI-IQ-POWER-LEVEL, 2023-10-02T13:00:00+02:00, 2023-10-02T13:30:00+02:00, TX-ARRAY-CARRIER, TX- ARRAY-CARRIER1, per-tx-array-element-index-result, tx-array1:2, min, -39.40, max, -16.33, avg, - 26.93
- Measurement-group identifier: 8 (tssi-stats-object)
- Name of measurement-object: TSSI-IQ-POWER-LEVEL
- start-time: 2023-10-02T13:00:00+02:00 as measurement start-time.
- end-time: 2023-10-02T13:30:00+02:00 as measurement end-time
- object-unit: TX-ARRAY-CARRIER
- object-unit-id: TX-ARRAY-CARRIER1 (the name associated with tx-array carrier)
- per-tx-array-element-index-result
- tx-array1:2 (an array element k=2 on the tx-array named "tx-array-1")
- Report-Info:
- minimum -39.40
- maximum -16.33
- average -26.93
Example of reporting of RSSI measurements: 9, RSSI, 2023-10-02T13:00:00+02:00, 2023-10-02T13:30:00+02:00, RX-ARRAY-CARRIER, RX-ARRAY-CARRIER1, per-rx-array-element-index-result, rx-array1:2, min, -106.1, max, -52.8, avg, -89.2
- Measurement-group identifier: 9 (rssi-stats-object)
- Name of measurement-object: RSSI
- start-time: 2023-10-02T13:00:00+02:00 as measurement start-time.
- end-time: 2023-10-02T13:30:00+02:00 as measurement end-time
- object-unit: RX-ARRAY-CARRIER
- object-unit-id: RX-ARRAY-CARRIER1 (the name associated with rx-array carrier)
- per-rx-array-element-index-result
- rx-array1:2 (an array element k=2 on the rx-array named "rx-array-1")
- Report-Info:
minimum -106.1 maximum -52.8 average -89.2 Example of reporting of TX-OUTPUT-POWER measurements: 10, TX-OUTPUT-POWER, 2024-08-06T13:00:00+02:00, 2024-08-06T13:30:00+02:00, TX-ARRAY-CARRIER, TX- ARRAY-CARRIER1, per-tx-array-element-index-result, tx-array-1:0, min, 42.90, max 43.24, avg 43.01, tx-array-1:1, min, 42.92, max 43.26, avg 43.03.
- Measurement-group identifier: 10 (tx-output-power-stats-object)
- Name of measurement-object: TX-OUTPUT-POWER
- start-time: 2024-08-06T13:00:00+02:00 as measurement start-time.
- end-time: 2024-08-06T13:30:00+02:00 as measurement end-time
- object-unit: CARRIER-ARRAY-ELEMENT
- object-unit-id: TX-ARRAY-CARRIER1(the name associated with tx-array-carrier)
- per-tx-array-element-index-result
- tx-array-1:0 (an array element k=0 on the tx-array named "tx-array-1")
- Report-Info:
minimum 42.90 maximum 43.24 average 43.01
- tx-array-1:1 (an array element k=1 on the tx-array named "tx-array-1")
- Report-Info:
minimum 42.92 maximum 43.26 average 43.03 Example of multiple ethernet measurements on one line is: 11, RECEIVED-CRC-ERRORED-FRAMES, 2018-05-18T13:00:00+09:00, 2018-05-18T13:15:00+09:00, ETH_INTERFACE, 10Geth0.100, count, 1499
- Measurement-group identifier: 11 (ethernet-stats object)
- Name of measurement-object: IN-CRC-ERRORS
- start-time: 2018-05-18T13:00:00+09:00 as measurement start-time.
- end-time: 2018-05-18T13:30:00+09:00 as measurement end-time
- object-unit: ETH_INTERFACE
- object-unit-id: 10Geth0.100 (Ethernet interface with name 10Geth0.100)
- Report-Info:
- Count for 10Geth0.100: 1499.
When file-upload-interval is larger than measurement-interval, one performance measurement file may contain multiple lines for the stats which have consecutive periods indicating start-time and end-time for the measurement. When file-upload-interval is smaller than measurement-interval, one performance measurement file may not contain the line for the stats which start-time and end-time are not applicable to the period for the performance measurement file. For example, when file-upload-interval = 60 min, measurement-interval for measurement-object#A= 30 min and measurement-interval for measurement-object#B = 15 min, one performance measurement file contains 2 measurement result lines for measurement-object#A with consecutive start-time and end-time, and 4 measurement result lines for measurement-object#B with consecutive start-time and end-time as follows: 1, RX_POWER, 2018-05-18T13:00:00+09:00, 2018-05-18T13:15:00+09:00, PORT_NUMBER, 0, max, 1.5849, 2018-05-18T13:09:54+09:00 1, RX_POWER, 2018-05-18T13:15:00+09:00, 2018-05-18T13:30:00+09:00, PORT_NUMBER, 0, max, 1.4125, 2018-05-18T13:21:08+09:00 2, RX_LATE, 2018-05-18T13:00:00+09:00, 2018-05-18T13:30:00+09:00, EAXC_ID, 0, 123, 1, 153 1, RX_POWER, 2018-05-18T13:30:00+09:00, 2018-05-18T13:45:00+09:00, PORT_NUMBER, 0, max, 1.2882, 2018-05-18T13:44:00+09:00 1, RX_POWER, 2018-05-18T13:45:00+09:00, 2018-05-18T14:00:00+09:00, PORT_NUMBER, 0, max, 1.2022, 2018-05-18T13:49:44+09:00 2, RX_LATE, 2018-05-18T13:30:00+09:00, 2018-05-18T14:00:00+09:00, EAXC_ID, 0, 13, 1, 23 For the other example, when file-upload-interval = 15 min, measurement-interval for measurement-object#A= 30 min and measurement-interval for measurement-object#B = 15 min, one performance measurement file contains one measurement result line for measurement-object#B but not for measurement-object#A. next performance measurement file contains both measurements result for measurement-object#A and #B as follows: C201805181300Z+0900_201805181315+0900_ABC0123456.csv. 1, RX_POWER, 2018-05-18T13:00:00+09:00, 2018-05-18T13:15:00+09:00, PORT_NUMBER, 0, max, 1.5849, 2018-05-18T13:09:54+09:00 C201805181315Z+0900_201805181330+0900_ABC0123456.csv. 1, RX_POWER, 2018-05-18T13:15:00+09:00, 2018-05-18T13:30:00+09:00, PORT_NUMBER, 0, max, 1.4125, 2018-05-18T13:21:08+09:00 2, RX_LATE, 2018-05-18T13:00:00+09:00, 2018-05-18T13:30:00+09:00, EAXC_ID, 0, 123, 1, 153 The performance measurement files stored in O-RAN/PM or o-ran/pm/ can be uploaded on-demand. For the file upload mechanism by on-demand way, retrieve-file-list and file-upload operations are used. For more detail, refer to clause 12.

### 10.3.3 Configured subscription process
This optional process requires the O-RU to support configured subscriptions, as described in clause 18. The structure of the process follows the NETCONF process described in clause 10.3.1. However, instead of sending a NETCONF <create-subscription > to the NETCONF server in the O-RU to subscribe to the measurement-result-stats notifications, the NETCONF client installs the subscription via configuration of the O-RU's datastore. Based on configured subscriptions, the O-RU sends asynchronous YANG notifications over HTTPS to the configured Event- Collector. In order to terminate the subscription, the NETCONF client shall delete the corresponding configuration in the O-RU. Immediately after the subscription is successfully deleted, the O-RU shall send to a subscription state change notification indicating that the subscription has ended to the Event-Collector.
> NOTE: Unlike the NETCONF process described in clause 10.3.1, the subscription to the subscribed notifications
is not terminated when the NETCONF session used to establish the subscription is terminated.

# 11 Fault management

## 11.1 Introduction
Fault management is used to manage active-alarm-list and optionally historical-alarm-list; handle alarm subscription and send alarm notifications to subscribers, which will typically be the NETCONF Client unless the O-RU supports the configured subscription capability, as described in clause 18, when the configured subscriber may be an Event- Collector. The NETCONF Server shall manage the active-alarm-list. Alarms with fault-severity set to WARNING are excluded from this list. When the raise alarm criteria are met, an alarm is raised and it is added to the list; when clear alarm conditions are fulfilled then the alarm is cleared and removed from the active-alarm-list. Furthermore, when the element that was the fault-source of an alarm is deleted then all related alarms are removed from the active-alarm-list. Optionally, the NETCONF Server is also responsible for managing the historical-alarm-list. Alarms with fault-severity set to WARNING are excluded from this list. When an alarm is cleared, it is added to this list with is-cleared set to "true". The NETCONF Client can read " active-alarm-list" by get RPC operation, as illustrated in Figure 11.1-1.

## 11.2 Alarm notification
The O-RU shall send <alarm-notif> to a subscriber when the NETCONF Client has established a subscription to alarm notification and:
- a new alarm is added to active-alarm-list;
- an alarm is removed from the list.
Removal of alarms from the active-alarm-list due to deletion of "fault-source" element is considered as clearing and cause sending of <alarm-notif> to the notification subscriber. This applies to alarms which were explicitly related to the deleted "fault-source" element. The rationale for such is to avoid misalignment between NETCONF Clients when one NETCONF Client deletes an element. The O-RU reports in <alarm-notif> only for new active or cancelled alarms, not all active alarms, as illustrated in

## 11.3 Manage alarm subscription to NETCONF clients
The NETCONF Client can "subscribe" to alarm notifications by sending create-subscription, as specified in clause 2.1 of RFC 5277 [21], to NETCONF Server. RFC 5277 [21] allows <create-subscription> below: <netconf:rpc netconf:message-id="101" xmlns:netconf="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0"> <create-subscription xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:notification:1.0"> <filter netconf:type="subtree"> <event xmlns="http://example.com/event/1.0"> <eventClass>fault</eventClass> <severity>critical</severity> </event> <event xmlns="http://example.com/event/1.0"> <eventClass>fault</eventClass> <severity>major</severity> </event> <event xmlns="http://example.com/event/1.0"> <eventClass>fault</eventClass> <severity>minor</severity> </event> </filter> </create-subscription> </netconf:rpc>
> NOTE: The NETCONF Client can define the filter for alarm notification base on severity.
The appropriate example for O-RAN YANG modules for create-subscription is as follows: Case 1) NETCONF client subscribes alarm-notif filtering fault-severity: CRITICAL, MAJOR and MINOR and measurement-result-stats filtering transceiver-stats and rx-window-stats which measurement-object is RX_ON_TIME only: <rpc xmlns:netconf="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="101"> <create-subscription xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:notification:1.0"> <filter netconf:type="subtree"> <alarm-notif xmlns="urn:o-ran:fm:1.0"> <fault-severity>CRITICAL</fault-severity> </alarm-notif> <alarm-notif xmlns="urn:o-ran:fm:1.0"> <fault-severity>MAJOR</fault-severity> </alarm-notif> <alarm-notif xmlns="urn:o-ran:fm:1.0"> <fault-severity>MINOR</fault-severity> </alarm-notif> <measurement-result-stats xmlns="urn:o-ran:performance-management:1.0"> <transceiver-stats/> </measurement-result-stats> <measurement-result-stats xmlns="urn:o-ran:performance-management:1.0"> <rx-window-stats> <measurement-object>RX_ON_TIME</measurement-object> </rx-window-stats> </measurement-result-stats> </filter> </create-subscription> </rpc> Case 2) NETCONF client subscribes default event stream NETCONF to receive all notifications defined in O- RAN YANG modules: <rpc xmlns:netconf="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0" message-id="101"> <create-subscription xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:notification:1.0"> <stream>NETCONF</stream> </create-subscription> </rpc> A high-level view of a NETCONF Client subscribing is shown in Figure 11.3-1. After the NETCONF Client requests a subscription, the server sends an alarm-notif notification to the client when there is any change in the active alarms matching the filter specified in the subscription request. To terminate the subscription, the NETCONF client shall send a <close-session> operation from the subscription's session, as illustrated in Figure 11.3-2.

## 11.4 Fault sources
Alarm notifications reported by NETCONF Server contain element "fault-source" which indicates the origin of an alarm. In general values of "fault-source" are derived from names defined as YANG leafs:
- Source (Examples: fan, module, PA, port)
indicates that origin of the alarm within the O-RU. Value of "fault-source" is derived from element name.
- Source (other than when an element is within the O-RU)
Value of fault-source may identify the O-RU external resource; for example, antenna line. Alarm instance can be identified by value combination of fault-id, fault-source and fault-severity. Alarms with different "fault-id", "fault-source" or "fault-severity" are independent:
- Multiple alarms with same "fault-id" may be reported with different "fault-source".
- Multiple alarms with same "fault-source" may be reported with different "fault-id".
- Among alarms with same value of fault-id and fault-source and different value of fault-severity, only one of
them can be in the active-alarm-list at a given time. When an alarm with a "fault-id" and a "fault-source" is reported with a "fault-severity", and there is already an alarm in the active-alarm-list with same fault-id, fault-source value, but with a different fault-severity, NETCONF server shall simultaneously add the alarm with new fault-severity in active-alarm-list and clear the previous alarm with different fault-severity by setting is-cleared to TRUE and shall remove the alarm with previous fault-severity from the active-alarm- list. NETCONF server shall notify subscribers of added and removed alarms. The range of "fault-id" is separated to common and vendor specific. The common fault-ids are defined in clause A and more numbers may be used in future. The vendor specific range for the fault-id shall be [1000 .. 65535]. Alarm notifications reported by the NETCONF Server contain names of the "affected-objects" which indicate elements affected by the fault. In case the origin of the alarm is within the O-RU, other elements than "fault-source" which do not function correctly due to the fault are reported via "affected-objects". In case the origin of the fault is outside of the O- RU, the O-RU elements which do not function correctly due to the fault are reported via "affected-objects".

## 11.5 Manage alarm notification to event-collector
This optional capability requires the O-RU to support configured subscriptions, as described in Clause 18. For details for alarm subscription and notification sending to event-collector, refer to Clause 18.

## 11.6 Historical Alarms List
The O-RU may optionally support the historical-alarm-list container, enabling alarm events with is-cleared status is "true" to be captured. The procedures for aging out entries in the historical-alarms list based on time and/or memory is left to vendor specific implementation of the O-RU.
> NOTE: The persistence of historical-alarms list entries on O-RU upon reset is left to vendor specific
implementation The NETCONF Client can read historical-alarm-list by get RPC operation, as illustrated in Figure 11.6-1. In case of multiple NETCONF clients and/or Event-Collectors, the O-RU shall report the same notification to all subscribed NETCONF clients/Event-Collectors.

# 12 File management

## 12.1 Introduction
This clause specifies File Management for the O-RU. Following operations are supported as a File Management.
- upload (see clause 12.3)
File upload from O-RU to file server triggered by O-RU Controller.
- retrieve file list (see clause 12.4)
O-RU Controller retrieves the file list in O-RU.
- download (see clause 12.5)
File download from file server to O-RU triggered by O-RU Controller
> NOTE 1: file-download has different purpose with software-download specified in clause 8.5. For example, file-
download can be used for Beamforming configuration in clause 15.4. File transfers are done with sFTP or FTPES. Following types of authentications shall be supported for file management: a) Password for RU authentication and list of public keys (see clause 5.4 in the present document) for sFTP server authentication. b) X.509 Certificate for TLS between O-RU and FTPES file server. In addition to the X.509 certificate, the O-RU shall use any configured application password, appl-password, to authenticate to the FTPES server for the associated username defined in the remote-file-path.
> NOTE 2: The appl-password is optional for FTPES server authentication to support scenarios where the username
embedded in the remote-file-path corresponds to an anonymous account as defined in RFC 1635 [i.5]. Following types of authentications may be supported for file management: c) Certificate for both O-RU and sFTP server authentication. Following other clauses are related with File Management:
- clause 10.3.2: File management process (can be used for on demand file upload purpose, since clause 10.3.2
covers periodic file upload).
- clause 14.2: Log management.
- clause 14.3: Trace.
- clause 15.4.3: Beamforming configuration update.
> NOTE 3: The file management functions involve the O-RU controller subscribing to receive particular YANG
notifications from the O-RU. All O-RUs support the NETCONF Create-Subscription method, enabling those notifications to be transported using NETCONF notifications. In addition, those O-RUs that support the optional NON-PERSISTENT-MPLANE feature, the O-RU Controller can create a configured subscription from the O-RU, enabling those notifications to be transported over HTTPS to an Event- Collector as described in clause 18.

## 12.2 File system structure
The file System structure of the O-RU is represented as a logical structure that is used by the file management procedures defined in the rest of this clause. If the O-RU's physical file structure differs from the logical file structure defined below, the O-RU performs the mapping between the two structures. The O-RU shall support the standardised logical folders. Prior to version 10.0, the following standardised folders were defined:
- O-RAN/log/
- O-RAN/PM/
- O-RAN/transceiver/
And for those O-RU's supporting beamforming
- O-RAN/beamforming/
The folders listed above are inconsistent with the folders used in figures elsewhere in the present document. Because of such inconsistencies, the use of the folders listed above is not preferred. These folders may be subject to removal in a future version of the present document. To avoid interoperability issues between case-sensitive and non-case sensitive file systems, the following additional standardised folders are defined and are preferred in the present document:
- o-ran/log/ - used to store troubleshooting and trace logs
- o-ran/pm/ - used to store performance measurement files
- o-ran/transceiver/ - used to store data recovered from the transceiver module
and for those O-RUs supporting beamforming:
- o-ran/beamforming/ - used to store beamforming configuration files
and for those O-RUs supporting O-RAN defined security logging:
- o-ran/security/ - used to store security log files
The O-RU may additionally support vendor defined folders which are out of scope of the present document. Versions of the present document prior to v17.0 did not define the standardised folder "o-ran/security/" and consequently O-RUs compliant to versions earlier than v17.0 should use vendor defined folders for supporting security logging functionality.

## 12.3 File management operation: upload
This clause describes file upload method from O-RU to the fileserver. sFTP or FTPES is used for File management, and one file can be uploaded by one upload operation. The O-RU Controller triggers file upload operation to O-RU. Simultaneous multiple file upload operations can be supported under the same FTP connection between O-RU to the fileserver. If the O-RU has a limitation with regard to the ability to upload files simultaneously, it is allowed that O-RU reports failure notification for the simultaneous upload request which exceeds its capability. The behaviour of O-RU Controller is out of scope when O-RU Controller receives failure notification from the O-RU. Following rpc is used for upload operation.
- rpc: file-upload
- input
▪ local-logical-file-path: the logical path of file to be uploaded (no wildcard is allowed) ▪ remote-file-path: URI of file on the fileserver ▪ credentials: authentication credentials for file server access ▪ application-layer-credential: application layer level authentication credentials for file server access
- output
▪ status: whether O-RU accepted or rejected the upload request ▪ reject-reason: the human readable reason why O-RU rejects the request (only applicable if status is rejected) In the rpc-reply, status whether the O-RU receives the upload request or rejects due to some reason (e.g. the number of limitation to upload simultaneously) is replied. If rejected, the human readable reject reason is also replied. In notification, the result of the upload process (successfully uploaded or failed upload) is replied in addition to local- logical-file-path and remote-file-path. If failure, the human readable reason is also replied. Figure 12.3-1 shows the file upload sequence diagram.

## 12.4 File management operation: retrieve file list
This clause describes file retrieve method which the O-RU Controller retrieves the file list from the O-RU. One or multiple files' information can be retrieved by one retrieve file list operation (use of wildcard is allowed). The O-RU Controller triggers the retrieve file list operation from the O-RU. The following rpc is used for retrieve file list operation. rpc: retrieve-file-list
- input
- logical path: the logical path of files to be retrieved (* is allowed as wild-card)
- file-name-filter: the files which has the "file name filter" in the file name (* is allowed as wild-card)
- output
- status: whether O-RU accepted or rejected the retrieve file list request
- reject-reason: the human readable reason why O-RU rejects the request (only applicable if status is
rejected)
- file list
In rpc-reply, status whether the O-RU accepts the retrieve-file-list request or rejects due to some reason is replied. If rejected, the human readable reject reason is also replied.

## 12.5 File management operation: download
This clause describes the file download method from O-RU Controller to O-RU. sFTP or FTPES is used for File management, and one file can be downloaded by one download operation. O-RU Controller triggers the file download operation to O-RU. Simultaneous multiple file download operations can be supported under the same FTP connection between the O-RU and O-DU/SMO. If the O-RU has the number of limitation to download simultaneously as a capability, it is allowed that the O-RU reports a failure notification for the download request which is larger than the capability. The behaviour of the O-RU Controller is out of scope when O-DU/SMO receives failure notification from O-RU. The following rpc is used for download operation. rpc: file-download
- input
- local-logical-file-path: the logical path of file to be downloaded (no wildcard is allowed)
- remote-file-path: URI of file on the file server
- credentials: authentication credentials for file server access
- application-layer-credential: application layer level authentication credentials for file server access
- output
- status: whether O-RU accepted or rejected the download request
- reject-reason: the human readable reason why O-RU rejects the request (only applicable if status is
rejected) The O-RU shall reject any file-download rpc where the local-logical-file-path starts with "o-ran/log/", "o-ran/pm/", "o- ran/transceiver/" or "o-ran/security/". In rpc-reply, status whether the O-RU receives the download request or rejects due to some reason (e.g. the number of limitation to download simultaneously) is replied. If rejected, the human readable reject reason is also replied. In notification, the result of the download process (successfully downloaded or download is failure) is replied in addition to the local-logical-file-path and remote-file-path. If failure, the human readable reason is also replied. Figure 12.5-1 below shows the file download sequence diagram.

# 13 Synchronisation aspects

## 13.1 Introduction
This clause describes the YANG model (o-ran-sync.yang) containers that are used for the Management Plane's interactions with various aspects of the time synchronisation of the O-RU. In general, the O-RU shall manage its synchronisation status and select one or more synchronisation input source(s) (based on vendor specific implementation). Additional information regarding the interactions between M-Plane and S-Plane are described in the current specification's clause 15.3.3 and in the CUS-Plane specification [2], clause 11.4. The o-ran-sync.yang YANG model defines configuration, status and notification containers which are used to enable O-RU controller to recover the state of the O-RU's S-Plane. Before going into the details of each of these an overview of these objects is provided here. The YANG model defines several configuration containers. These containers comprise read/write parameters that can be read or set by the O-RU controller. The O-RU controller can read them (to determine O-RU configuration) or set them (to change the O-RU's configuration). These are:
- PTP Configuration - ptp-config: O-RU controller can set or read PTP parameters like PTP Full/Partial timing
support profiles, accepted clock classes, and set network address among other parameters
- PLFS/SyncE Configuration - synce-config: This container provides SyncE information such as the acceptable
list of SSMs.
- GNSS (Global Network Satellite System) Configuration - gnss-config: This container comprises leaves which
define whether GNNS can be used, and if so which satellite constellation to use.
- Sync Capability - sync-capability: This is a read-only container indicates to the O-RU controller the time
accuracy of the T-TSC or T-BC that is integrated into the O-RU. The O-RU should store the above synchronisation configuration in reset persistent memory. During the start -up installation process (see clause 6.1) the O-RU's default startup configuration settings may allow the O-RU's S-Plane to become operational without any configuration by the O-RU controller. The O-RU uses its default configuration settings to execute the PTP and/or PLFS/SyncE protocols, or GNSS settings to complete the synchronisation process (including optional features such as PER-PORT-PTP-CONFIG, PER-PORT-SYNCE- CONFIG, GNSS, ANTI-JAM). During the start-up installation flow the startup settings may be changed. This may be necessary if the default synchronisation settings are incompatible with the network implementation. If the startup configuration requires changes, the O-RU controller first retrieves the synchronisation configuration and status from O- RU, and then the O-RU controller modifies the configuration. The O-RU shall then execute the synchronisation process using the updated settings. Having these settings stored in reset persistent memory typically simplifies subsequent startup flows by enabling O-RU to start up without reconfiguration. Once the O-RU is operational, the O-RU controller can subscribe to several synchronisation notifications which report to the O-RU controller the status of the O-RU. The following notifications are defined in the YANG model.
- synchronization-state-change - conveys the sync-state.
- ptp-state-change - conveys the ptp-status.
- synce-state-change - If SyncE or another PLFS is used, this conveys the synce-status
- gnss-state-change - If a O-RU supports GNSS capability, this conveys the gnss-status.
During normal operation, the O-DU should monitor the operational state of the O-RU's S-Plane. This is accomplished by subscribing to receive the synchronization-state-change notification. If the O-DU is notified that the O-RU's state has changed to UNLOCKED, the O-DU shall stop sending data to the O-RU and shall ignore any data from that O-RU. Clause 15.3.3 describes in more detail the interactions between S-Plane and M-Plane when synchronisation is lost and when synchronisation is recovered.
> NOTE: Except for possible configuration during the start-up installation process, the synchronisation start-up and
reference clock selection are accomplished via S-Plane protocols independent of M-Plane. The remainder of this clause describes in more detail the main objects within the configuration, status, and notification containers. However, this clause does not describe all of the leafs/objects within the containers. Some items for example time-error, frequency-error, supported-reference-types are not mentioned in this clause, but are defined and described in o-ran-sync.yang.

## 13.2 Sync status object
This sync-state container provides synchronisation state of the module. If the O-RU Controller is interested in receiving Synchronization status state information, it may configure a subscription to the synchronization-state-change notification from the O-RU. Event notifications will be sent whenever the state of the O-RU synchronisation changes. For an O-DU that is communicating with an O-RU, the synchronization-state-change notification is the primary mechanism by which the O-DU knows whether the O-RU is synchronised and is ready to transmit/receive when fully configured. This notification is the primary mechanism to transfer status information required to implement the flows described in clause 15.3.3. The state diagram of O-RU synchronisation is shown in Figure 13.2-1, and is indicated by the following allowed values:
- LOCKED: O-RU is in the locked mode, as defined in Recommendation ITU-T G.810 [23].
- HOLDOVER: O-RU clock is in holdover mode.
- FREERUN: O-RU clock is not locked to an input reference and is not in the holdover mode.
The sync-state container allows the O-RU to list via an array of the synchronisation sources, called supported- reference-types, which it can support. The allowed values are:
- GNSS
- PTP
- SYNCE
> NOTE: HOLDOVER mode is optional and depends on internal O-RU design.

## 13.3 Sync capability object
The module's synchronisation capability is provided via the sync-t-tsc object. This object indicates the accuracy of the O-RU's derived Telecom Subordinate Clock (T-TSC). For details on the actual capability levels, see clause 11.3 of the O-RAN WG4 CUS plane specification [2]. There are two enumerations possible:
- CLASS_B: Regular accuracy (previously referred to class B) for synchronisation is supported by the device as
per IEEE 802.1CM [80] clause 6.4.1, Case 1.1.
- ENHANCED: Enhanced accuracy for synchronisation is supported by the device as per IEEE802.1CM [80]
clause 6.4.1, Case 1.2. Other leaves in this container include:
- a Boolean called boundary-clock-supported, which indicates whether the O-RU supports T-BC profiles
defined in ITU-T 8275.1 [22].
- a Boolean called extended-ql-tlv-supported, which indicates whether the O-RU supports the extended
Quality Level TLV defined in ITU-T 8264 [76] clause 11.3.

## 13.4 PTP configuration

### 13.4.1 Introduction
The ptp-config container contains information about the O-RU's configuration of Precision Time Protocol. This clause describes the definitions of the items contained within ptp-config. domain-number: This parameter indicates the Domain Number for PTP announce messages. Allowed values: 0 ~ 255.
- Recommendation ITU-T G.8275.1 [22] uses domain numbers in the range 24...43, but the entire range is
allowed to ensure flexibility of the M-Plane specification. For Recommendation ITU-T G.8275.2 domain numbers from range 44…63 shall be used. default: 24. accepted-clock-classes: Contains the list of PTP acceptable Clock Classes, sorted in the descending order.
- The sender shall generate the list of acceptable clock classes. The list shall be sorted in descending order. Each
accepted Clock Class value shall appear only once in the list. Depending on implementation, the receiver may interpret the list in either of two ways: a) use only the first (i.e. the maximum) item in the list, interpreting it as a threshold value for acceptable clock classes, while ignoring all other items in the list; b) use the whole list, interpreting it as an explicit list of acceptable clock classes. default: 7, 6 clock-classes: The PTP Clock Class accepted by the O-RU. Allowed values: 0 ~ 255.
- Not all values are compliant to [22], but the entire range is allowed in M-plane specification to ensure
flexibility. The values can be validated/filtered on the receiver side, if necessary. ptp-profile: Defines which PTP profile will be used. Allowed values:
- G_8275_1 (multicast over Ethernet will be used, see Recommendation ITU-T G.8275.1 [22])
- G_8275_2 (unicast over IP will be used, see Recommendation ITU-T G.8275.2)
default: G_8275_1. delay-asymmetry: Defines the static phase error in the recovered PTP timing signal to be compensated at the O-RU. The error is defined in units of nanoseconds in the range ±10 000 ns. This is a single global value that is common for all the O-RU's ports. As specified in Recommendation ITU-T G.810 [23] and IEEE1588 [24] and [50], the sign of the parameter shall be interpreted as follows:
- If the phase error to be compensated is negative, then the recovered timing signal shall be advanced by the
time interval equal to the configured value to compensate the error.
- If the phase error to be compensated is positive, then the recovered timing signal shall be delayed by the time
interval equal to the configured value to compensate the error. default: 0 Modification of this parameter may have impact on RF transmission but shall occur without unit restart. This parameter is optional for support. If the O-RU does not support this value, the O-RU shall use the default value. If the O-RU does not support manual compensation, it shall ignore the parameter setting. Granularity of the applied value depends on the architecture and implementation of the system clock, and therefore, may vary across vendors. 13.4.2 G.8275.1 specific parameters This container within ptp-config, called g-8275-1-config, is used when ptp-profile is set to G_8275_1. When enabled it instantiates multicast-mac -address. The parameter defines the destination MAC address, used by the O-RU in the egress PTP messages. This is a common configuration parameter for all G.8275.1 compliant ports of the O-RU. Allowed values:
- FORWARDABLE (means that PTP shall use 01-1B-19-00-00-00 destination MAC address)
- NONFORWARDABLE (means that PTP shall use 01-80-C2-00-00-0E destination MAC address)
default: FORWARDABLE. sources: When PER-PORT-PTP-CONFIG optional feature is supported, this parameter contains several ITU-T G.8275.1-specific configuration parameters determining optional attributes for each of the physical ports defined by local-port-number. Descriptions for these can be found in o-ran-sync.yang.
- time-transmitter-only: (default : FALSE)
When set to TRUE, this optional parameter forces all PTP ports assigned to the physical port to act only as a TimeTransmitter one, i.e. they cannot be selected as time source for the O-RU. When set to FALSE, the O-RU can determine the port state without this restriction.
- not-time-transmitter: (default : FALSE)
When set to TRUE, this optional parameter prevents all PTP ports assigned to the physical port from acting as a TimeTransmitter one, i.e. they cannot deliver time from the O-RU. When set to FALSE, the O-RU can determine the port state without this restriction.
- local-priority: (default : 128)
This optional parameter allows configuring a common local priority for all PTP ports assigned to the physical port, used in the ITU-T G.8275.1 best PTP source selection (ABTCA). The lower the value, the higher the priority. time-transmitter-only and not-time-transmitter shall not be set to TRUE simultaneously. 13.4.3 G.8275.2 specific parameters This container, g-8275-2-config, within ptp-config contains G.8275.2 specific parameters. It is used with ptp-profile is set to G_8275_2. The full list of fields within this container and their meaning are listed directly in the YANG model. local-ip-port: The parameter defines local IP address which will be used as a port for receiving ptp signal. master-ip-configuration: The parameter defines list of IP configuration of devices acting as PTP signal source. local-priority: The parameter defines local priority or underlying master IP address. ip-address: This parameter defines master IP address. log-inter-sync-period: The parameter defines number of sync message during 1 second. Allowed values: 0 ~ -7 (this represents the value from 1 message per second to 128 messages per second). log-inter-announce-period: The parameter defines number of announce message during 1 second Allowed values: 0 ~ -3 (this represents the value from 1 message per second to 8 messages per second).

## 13.5 PTP status
The PTP Status container is used to collect operational status information of the PTP clock, controlled by the O-RU. The object may be used to display operational information, which facilitates troubleshooting, to the operator. The information in the object shall not be used by the O-DU to autonomously alter its operation. If the O-RU Controller is interested in PTP status, it may configure a subscription to the ptp-state-change notification in the O-RU. Notifications will only indicate changes to the lock-state. Before requesting or subscribing to PTP status information, the O-RU Controller shall ensure that PTP is supported by the O-RU by requesting the supported-reference-types, as defined in clause 13.2. The following list includes the related parameters of this container. reporting-period: This parameter defines minimum period in seconds between reports, sent by the O-RU, for parameters in this container. default: 10 lock-state: This parameter indicates whether the integrated clock is synchronising to the reference, recovered from PTP flow. The exact definition when to indicate locked or unlocked is up to specific implementation.
- LOCKED: The integrated clock is synchronising to the reference, recovered from PTP flow.
- UNLOCKED: The integrated clock is not synchronising to the reference, recovered from PTP flow.
clock-class: This parameter contains the clock class of the clock, controlled by the O-RU. sources: This parameter contains several parameters describing the characteristics of PTP sources of the clock, controlled by the O-RU. Descriptions for these can be found in o-ran-sync.yang. state: This parameter indicates status of the PTP port:
- PARENT: Indicates that the PTP signal from this source is currently used as a synchronisation reference.
- OK: Indicates that the PTP signal from this source can be potentially used as a synchronisation reference, i.e.
Announce messages, received from this source, contain acceptable content (domain-number, clock-class, flags, etc).
- NOK: Indicates that the PTP signal from this source cannot be used as a synchronisation reference, i.e.
Announce messages, received from this source, contain unacceptable content (domain number, clockclass, flags, etc).
- DISABLED: Indicates that PTP connection is not available from this PTP source.
See the related o-ran-sync YANG Model for additional information on the contents of the ptp-status container.

## 13.6 PLFS/SyncE configuration
The CUS-Plane Specification allows for different methods of PLFS (Physical Layer Frequency Synchronisation), however only the use of SyncE is defined in the present document. The synce-config container defines the configuration of SyncE. The following list includes the related parameters of this container. acceptance-list-of-ssm: The parameter contains the list of SyncE acceptable Synchronisation Status Messages (SSM). Allowed values:
- ePRTC (enhanced Primary Reference Time Clock, note 2)
- PRTC (Primary Reference Time Clock, note 2)
- ePRC (enhanced Primary Reference Clock, note 2)
- PRC (Primary Reference Clock)
- PRS (Primary Reference Source-Stratum 1)
- SSU_A (Synchronization Supply Unit A)
- SSU_B (Synchronization Supply Unit B)
- ST2 (Stratum 2)
- ST3 (Stratum 3)
- ST3E (Stratum 3E)
- eEEC (enhanced Ethernet Equipment Clock, note 2)
- EEC1 (Ethernet Equipment Clock 1)
- EEC2 (Ethernet Equipment Clock 2)
- DNU (Do Not Use)
- NONE
> NOTE: These values are ignored when extended-ql-tlv-supported capability is FALSE.
ssm-timeout: The parameter contains the value of maximum duration in seconds for which the actual SSM value may be different than configured values. sources: When PER-PORT-SYNCE-CONFIG optional feature is supported, this parameter contains several ITU-T G.781-specific configuration parameters determining more detailed attributes for each of the physical ports defined by local-port-number. Descriptions for these can be found in o-ran-sync.yang.
- - ssm-send-enable: (default : FALSE)
When set to TRUE, this optional parameter allows all SyncE ports assigned to the physical port to send SSM Quality Level, i.e. it can be used to synchronize downstream clocks. When set to FALSE, the O-RU does not send the SSM Quality Level.
- - local-priority: (default : 0)
This optional parameter allows configuring a common local priority for all SyncE ports assigned to the physical port, used in the Recommendation ITU-T G.781 [81] best SyncE source selection. The lower the value, the higher the priority, except for value 0 that removes the port from the selection process.

## 13.7 PLFS/SyncE status
The synce-status container is used to collect operational status information of SyncE reference on a node, controlled by O-RU. If the O-RU Controller is interested in SyncE status, it may configure a subscription to the synce-state-change notification in the O-RU. Notifications will only indicate changes to the lock-state. Before requesting or subscribing to SyncE status information, the O-RU Controller shall ensure that SyncE is supported at the O-RU by requesting the supported timing reference types, as defined earlier in clause 13.2. The following list summarizes the related parameters of this container. reporting-period: This parameter defines minimum period in seconds between reports, sent by the O-RU, for parameters in this container. default: 10 lock-state: This parameter indicates whether the integrated ordinary clock is synchronising to the reference, recovered from the SyncE signal. The exact definition when to indicate locked or unlocked is up to specific implementation.
- LOCKED: The integrated ordinary clock is synchronising to the reference, recovered from the SyncE signal.
- UNLOCKED: The integrated ordinary clock is not synchronising to the reference, recovered from the SyncE
signal. sources: This parameter contains characteristics of SyncE sources of the clock, controlled by the NETCONF Server, and reporting optional attributes for each of the physical ports defined by local-port-number. Descriptions for these can be found in o-ran-sync.yang. state: This parameter indicates status of the SyncE source:
- PARENT: Indicates that the SyncE signal from this source is currently used as a synchronisation reference.
- OK: Indicates that the SyncE signal from this source can be potentially used as a synchronisation reference,
i.e. SSM messages, received from this source, contain acceptable clock quality level.
- NOK: Indicates that the SyncE signal from this source cannot be used as a synchronisation reference, i.e. SSM
messages, received from this source, contain unacceptable clock quality level.
- DISABLED: Indicates that SSMs are not received from this SyncE source.
quality-level: This parameter contains value of the SSM clock quality level, received in SSM messages from the SyncE source. Unit is uint8, e.g. PRC SSM QL is reported as 0x02. ssm-quality-level: this parameter contains human-readable value of the extended clock quality level, received in SSM messages from the SyncE source. Unit is ssm-code enumeration as specified in clause 13.6 of the present document, e.g. ePRC enhanced SSM QL is reported as ePRC. The following optional parameters can also be reported if extended-ql-tlv-supported capability is TRUE, as per Recommendation ITU-T G.8264 [76] clause 11.3. They report what is received on the port in SSM messages from the SyncE source:
- enhanced-ssm-code: Unit is uint8, e.g. ePRC enhanced SSM QL is reported as 0x23.
- originator-synce-clock-id: this parameter contains the clockIdentity of the originator clock. Unit is uint64,
e.g. 0x0123456789ABCDEF.
- flag0-mixed-eec-eeec: Boolean meaning mixed EEC/eEEC (i.e. TRUE if at least one of the clocks is not an
eEEC; FALSE if all clocks are eEEC).
- flag1-partial-chain: Boolean meaning means partial chain (i.e. TRUE , if the TLV has been generated in the
middle of the chain and the count of the EEC/eEEC is incomplete, FALSE otherwise).
- number-of-eeec: the number of cascaded eEECs from the nearest SSU/PRC/ePRC. Unit is uint8.
- number-of-eec: the number of cascaded EECs from the nearest SSU/PRC/ePRC. Unit is uint8.
See the related o-ran-sync.yang YANG Model for the full details.

## 13.8 GNSS configuration
The gnss-config container defines the configuration of Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS). The following list summarizes the related parameters of this container. enable: This parameter defines if GNSS receiver shall be enabled or not. Allowed values: true/false; default: false satellite-constelation-list (sic): This parameter defines list of constellations to be used to acquire synchronisation. Allowed values:
- GPS
- GLONASS
- GALILEO
- BEIDOU
polarity: This parameter defines pulse polarity. Allowed values:
- POSITIVE
- NEGATIVE
default: POSITIVE cable-delay: This parameter is used to compensate cable delay. Allowed values: 0 ~ 1000. default: 5
> NOTE: This value is given in ns (nanoseconds) it is recommended to compensate 5ns per each meter of the cable.
anti-jam-enable {if feature GNSS-ANTI-JAM}: This parameter is used to enable or disable anti-jamming. Allowed values: true/false. default: false.

## 13.9 GNSS status
An O-RU supporting GNSS capability shall use the gnss-status container to report the state of its GNSS receiver. If the O-RU Controller is interested in GNSS status, it may configure a subscription to the gnss-state-change notification in the O-RU before requesting or subscribing the GNSS status information. Notifications will only provide changes to the gnss-status. The O-RU Controller shall ensure that GNSS is supported by the O-RU by requesting supported timing reference types, as defined in clause 13.2. The following list summarizes the related parameters of this container. gnss-status: This parameter indicates the status of the GNSS receiver:
- SYNCHRONIZED: Indicates that the GNSS receiver is synchronised.
- ACQUIRING-SYNC: Indicates the GNSS receiver is functioning correctly, but has not acquired
synchronisation
- ANTENNA-DISCONNECTED: Indicates the GNSS receiver is reporting that its antenna is disconnected.
- BOOTING: Indicates that the GNSS functionality is booting.
- ANTENNA-SHORT-CIRCUIT: Indicates that the GNSS receiver is reporting that its antenna is short
circuited. Additionally, when the GNSS receiver is synchronised, the O-RU can report the following additional information:
- satellites-tracked: The number of satellites being tracked by the O-RU receiver.
- altitude, latitude and longitude: The geospatial location reported by the GNSS receiver.

# 14 Operations use cases

## 14.1 Supervision failure handling and supervision termination
handling

### 14.1.1 Supervision failure handling
This clause clarifies Supervision Failure Handling and Supervision Termination Handling. When Supervision Failure is detected by O-RU, the O-RU shall immediately disable operation of the watchdog timers for the corresponding NETCONF session. O-RU assumes NETCONF session related to failed supervision is no longer valid. O-RU shall terminate this invalid NETCONF session by closing underlying SSH or TLS connection. Then O-RU shall start performing the call home procedure towards the NETCONF client, using the re-call-home-no-ssh-timer to repeat the call home attempts. This activity is repeated by the O-RU until, either: 1) A new NETCONF session is established with the original NETCONF client. Or, 2) the original NETCONF client is no longer a "call home O-RU Controller" as defined in clause 6.3, e.g. when reperforming DHCP configuration, the O-RU Controller identity corresponding to the NETCONF client is no longer signalled by the DHCP server, and/or the NETCONF client was previously configured using the configured-client-info container and this configuration has been deleted. Or, 3) After max-call-home-attempts has been reached and a new NETCONF session cannot be established with the original NETCONF client. Scenario 2 and 3 result in one of the two described cases: Case #1: The O-RU is still having at least one running and valid NETCONF session with a NETCONF client that has subscribed to receive the supervision-notification and where the per-odu-monitoring container is not present in the O-RU's configuration. The O-RU remains operational and stops performing call home to this O-RU controller. Case #2: The O-RU does not have running NETCONF session with any NETCONF client that has subscribed to receive the supervision-notification. The O-RU ceases all radio transmission and performs autonomous reset. When an O-RU indicates it supports the SHARED-ORU-MULTI-ODU feature, an O-RU Controller can enable supervision operation on a per O-DU identity basis by configuring one or more odu-id parameters in the per-odu- monitoring container in o-ran-supervision YANG model. When an odu-id has been configured in the per-odu- monitoring container, the O-RU shall enable operation of watchdog supervision timers (supervision timer and notification timer) on a per odu-id basis. When enabled, an O-RU controller that has subscribed to the supervision- notification is expected to configure one of the odu-id values in the supervision-watchdog-reset rpc. Operation of watchdog supervision timers on a per o-du basis does not obviate the O-RU from performing autonomous reset according to the scenario described in case #2 above.
> NOTE: The format of the odu-id string is not defined and not interpreted by the shared O-RU.
Case #3: If the supervision timer associated with an odu-id expires, the O-RU shall set the state leaf of the following array carriers to DISABLED and the active leaf of the same carriers to INACTIVE: ▪ Any tx-array-carriers list entry including a list of odu-ids containing only expired odu-id. ▪ Any rx-array-carriers list entry including a list of odu-ids containing only expired odu-id. O-RU shall raise an alarm. The specific alarm #35 "Lost O-DU ID based Supervision " is described in clause A. The O-RU sends tx-array-carriers-state-change and rx-array-carriers-state-change notifications to any notification subscribers. O-RU shall not perform an autonomous reset unless the requirements described in case #2 are met.

### 14.1.2 Supervision termination handling
If NETCONF session used for the supervision subscription is terminated by NETCONF client, the O-RU disables operation of the watchdog timers for terminated NETCONF session and starts performing Call Home procedure towards call home O-RU Controllers, following specification in clause 6.3. Before terminating its NETCONF session, a NETCONF client that has subscribed to receive supervision notification, should at least de-activate all carriers previously configured by this NETCONF client. Optionally, such a NETCONF client can also remove (full or partial) configuration applied by this NETCONF client to the O-RU. If the per-odu-monitoring container is not present in the O-RU's configuration, in case when entering Supervision Termination handling, if the O-RU does not have running NETCONF session with any NETCONF client that has subscribed to receive the supervision-notification, the O-RU ceases all radio transmission. If the per-odu-monitoring container is present in the O-RU's configuration, in case when entering Supervision Termination handling, the O-RU deactivates the array carriers associated with the odu-id value in its supervision- watchdog-reset rpc as specified in clause 14.1.1.

## 14.2 Log management

### 14.2.1 Introduction
There are three type of log managements, troubleshooting log, security log and trace log. They are independent each other. Troubleshooting log file contains the logs continuously collected before <start-troubleshooting-logs> rpc. Any logs collected after <start-troubleshooting-logs> rpc are not contained. Trace log file contains the logs continuously collected after <start-trace-logs> rpc. Any logs collected before <start- trace-logs> rpc are not contained. Security log files contain logs of security event information. The creation and storage of security log-data by the O-RU shall always be possible, i.e., there is no O-RAN defined procedure for starting or stopping the logging of security events. An O-RU indicates it supports O-RAN defined security logging procedures by including the SECURITY- LOGGING feature in its YANG library.

### 14.2.2 Troubleshooting log management
By requesting trouble shooting log files an O-RU controller is able to obtain collected log data files that can be used for troubleshooting purposes. The O-RU can provide all possible troubleshooting log files. The contents and log formats are dependent on O-RU implementation. The number and size of files provided by O-RU is not restricted but the O-RU may keep the number and size of files reasonably small to allow completion of the whole "Troubleshooting data upload" scenario (all files) within 15 minutes (with target to complete within 3 minutes) - assuming no additional upload restrictions from connectivity bandwidth or file server implementation. It is also recommended to provide more useful files first.
> NOTE 1: The detailed O-RU controller behaviour is not specified. An O-RU controller can continue the scenario
till completion past the allowed time or skip requesting further files The files should be compressed with compression method indicated by file name extension:
- .gz (DEFLATE),
- .lz4 (LZ4),
- .xz (LZMA2 - xz utils),
- .zip (DEFLATE - zlib library).
O-RU shall collect log information. The RPC <start-troubleshooting-logs> shall trigger the O-RU to start generating troubleshooting log files containing troubleshooting logs, as illustrated in Figure 14.2.2-1. Completed generation of files shall be indicated by NETCONF server to NETCONF client in form of a notification. If an O-RU reports support for the LOG-FILTER feature, then the O-RU Controller may request selected troubleshooting log data to be generated by providing values in the filter list in the RPC <start-troubleshooting-logs>. In Troubleshooting Data Upload procedure NETCONF Server provides data, which match the provided filters in the filter list.
> NOTE 2: If the filter-type/value provided in the filter list is not supported by the O-RU, the O-RU can either
ignore the filter-type/value, or reply with a status of FAILURE that indicates the failure reason being the non-support of the filter-type/value. The notification <troubleshooting-log-generated> shall be signalled to the notification subscriber after the O-RU has finished generation of all troubleshooting log files, indicating to the subscriber that the troubleshooting log files are ready to be uploaded. The O-RU shall include file names for troubleshooting log files in the <troubleshooting-log-generated> notification, with illustrative notification contents shown in Figure 14.2.2-2. After sending the notification, the O-RU shall stop generating further troubleshooting log files unless a new RPC <start- troubleshooting-logs> is triggered. The file transfer for the generated troubleshooting log files shall be handled by the file management defined in Clause 12.
> NOTE 3: Prior to version 10 of the present document, this document contained inconsistent definition of the log-
file-name string between Figure 14.2.2-2 and associated YANG models. In present document previously permitted content of node log-file-name is considered as not preferred. Not preferred file formats may be subject to removal in a future version of the present document. NETCONF client cancels generation of troubleshooting logs files using RPC <stop-troubleshooting-logs>. The NETCONF client is no longer interested in troubleshooting log files and O-RU does not need to send <troubleshooting- log-generated> notification, as illustrated in Figure 14.2.2-3. The overall troubleshooting log behaviour is illustrated in Figure 14.2.2-4. It contains 2 cases, successful notification case with illustrative notification contents and no notification as abnormal case.
> NOTE 4: Prior to version 10 of the present document, this document contained inconsistent definition of the log-
file-name string between Figure 14.2.2-4 and associated YANG models. In present document previously permitted content of node log-file-name is considered as not preferred. Not preferred file formats may be subject to removal in a future version of the present document.

### 14.2.3 Security logs

#### 14.2.3.1 Security log format
An O-RU supporting the SECURITY-LOGGING feature shall ensure that the fields of individual security logs comply with the security log field requirements as specified in clause 5.3.8.8 of O-RAN Security Requirements Specifications [83]. The security logging by such an O-RU shall include the events mapped to an O-RAN Network Function in table 5.3.8.11.1-1 of [83].

#### 14.2.3.2 Security log management
There is no defined procedure for starting or stopping the logging of security events. The security log data shall be integrity protected and persistently stored in a non-volatile memory. An O-RU supporting the SECURITY-LOGGING feature shall support the configuration of log-data rotation functionality. Log-rotation refers to closing a first log file and opening a second new log file. A log file can be closed based on a configured time interval, using the security-log-max-duration leaf, and/or a configured maximum size, using the security-log-max-size leaf. An O-RU may expose read-only data pertaining to the maximum size of the security log storage media using the leaf security-folder-memory-size. The O-RU controller should configure log rotation parameters such that the size of a security log file does not exceed the maximum storage available in the O-RU.
> NOTE 1: How the O-RU Controller uses the value of security-folder-memory-size and/or other available
information to determine the log rotation parameters is out of scope of the present document. The O-RU controller can arbitrarily decide to trigger the rotation of the current security log by sending the rotate- security-log rpc to the O-RU. An O-RU receiving the rotate-security-log rpc shall close the current security log file and open a new security log file. When a log file is rotated, the preserved integrity protected log file should be stored. The O-RU shall store the security log files in the o-ran/security/ folder in O-RU.
> NOTE 2: The details of the process used for file integrity protection is out of scope of the present document. The
use by an O-RU of an encrypted file systems and/or encrypted folders to protect security logging data at rest are out of scope of the present document. The filename name for security logs shall be of the format: S<start-time>_<end-time>_<name>.<ext>
- Starting with a capital letter "S".
- Format of <start-time> and <end-time> can be local time or UTC.
Local time format is YYYYMMDDHHMM+HHMM, indicating, year, month, day, hour, minute, timezone "+" or "-" , hour and minute for the time zone. UTC format is YYYYMMDDHHMMZ, indicating, year, month, day, hour, minute and with a special UTC designator ("Z") Time zone offset is provided by timezone-utc-offset in o-ran-operation.yang.
- <name> in ietf-hardware is used.
- "_" underscore is located between <start-time>, <end-time> and <name>.
- <ext> being the file extension. The extension shall indicate the archiving/encryption/compression method.
The O-RU Controller shall configure one or more remote-security-log-upload-path and associated credential information in the O-RU. Once a security log file is closed, the O-RU shall upload the integrity protected preserved log file to the one or more configured security log servers. After successful upload to at least one server, the O-RU marks the file as being eligible to be overwritten. The O-RU shall send the security-log-upload-notification to notification subscribers indicating the output status of the security upload procedure. The overall security log procedure is illustrated in Figure 14.3.2-1.

## 14.3 Trace
By requesting trace log files an O-RU controller is able to get them. Those trace log files contain collected log data files that can be used for trace purposes. The O-RU can provide all possible trace log files. The contents and log formats are dependent on O-RU implementation. The files should be compressed with compression method indicated by file name extension. O-RU shall start collecting the trace logs at the moment of receiving <start-trace-logs> rpc. Notification <trace-log- generated> shall be periodically sent to O-RU controller whenever generated trace log files is(are) ready. File names of newly created log file(s) shall be included in notification. The number and size of files provided by O-RU in a single <trace-log-generated> notification is not restricted but the O-RU may keep the number and size of files reasonably small to allow completion of the whole "Trace data upload" scenario (all files from notification) within 15 minutes (with target to complete within 3 minutes) - assuming no additional upload restrictions from connectivity bandwidth or file server implementation.
> NOTE 1: Timing of creating new group of trace log files is up to O-RU implementation.
After <stop-trace-logs> rpc received from O-RU controller, O-RU shall stop collecting trace logs and start generating trace log files which contain log data already collected after previous <trace-log-generated> notification. The overall procedure is shown in Figure 14.3-1, with illustrative notification contents. Figure 14.3-1 shows the O-RU last <trace-log-generated> notification with the is-notification-last::'true' and file names of trace log files being signalled to the notification subscriber. The file transfer mechanism for the created trace log files shall be handled by the file management described in clause

# 12 File management.
> NOTE 2: Prior to version 10 of the present document, this document contained inconsistent definition of the log-
file-name string between Figure 14.3-1 and associated YANG models. In present document previously permitted content of node log-file-name is considered as not preferred. Not preferred file formats may be subject to removal in a future version of the present document.

## 14.4 Operational aspects of antenna line devices

### 14.4.1 Introduction
An O-RU can connect to one or more external equipment including antenna line devices such as a RET, MultiRET, MHA, RAE and etc.
- For the communication with antenna line devices, AISG 2.0 protocol [26] as Layer 7 application and HDLC
protocol as Layer 2 data link are used.
- HDLC protocol as specified in ISO/IEC 13239 [65]. Detailed information can also be found in 3GPP TS
37.462 [27].
- AISG 2.0 protocol is standardised by "Control interface for antenna line devices Standard No. AISG v2.0" [26]
which is an adaptation of Iuant interface application layer defined in 3GPP TS 37.466 [28]. An O-RU may provide one or more ALD ports supporting connection with Antenna Line Devices. Each ALD port shall be able to support more than one ALD (i.e. a chained ALD configuration). Through the model O-RU may optionally inform about hardware relation between ALD port and O-RU connector(s) used by specific ALD port. In case more than one O-RU connector is used by single ALD port, O-RU may extend “overcurrent-report” notification by adding exact list of O-RU connectors for which overcurrent condition is detected. This clause describes the communication mechanisms based on AISG 2.0 protocol as specified in AISG 2.0 [26]. For communication with external equipment, AISG 2.0 uses Application Part protocols (RETAP, TMAAP etc.) at Layer 7 and HDLC as a Layer 2 datalink protocol.

### 14.4.2 HDLC interworking
HDLC protocol is standardised by ISO/IEC 13239 [65]. Detailed information can also be found in 3GPP TS 37.462 [27].
> NOTE: The assumed HDLC communication speed is 9 600 bits per second.
In order to handle collision detection in the HDLC branch, an O-RU supporting the ALD functionality shall support the following running counters reported using the corresponding YANG model:
- Frames with wrong FCS
- Frames without stop flag
- Number of received octets
For running counters served by the O-RU, both the O-RU and NETCONF Client shall handle wrap-over mechanism in a way, that wrap over zero is not considered as erroneous situation.

# A NETCONF client can recover these counters. From the changes observed in above counters, a NETCONF Client can
deduce the presence of a collision on the HDLC bus. Additional diagnostic information may be derived from how these counters are incrementing. Additionally, the O-RU implements "RPC Status" to indicate status of last "ald-communication" RPC to requestor.
- Status - flow control indicator of last requested operation (Status of RPC).
Prior to any communication with ALD(s), the O-RU shall provide ALDs with DC power. The way of how DC power is managed is out of scope of this interface specification. In order to support collision detection and flow control, Figure 14.4.2-1 defines the reference architecture with functional split is defined: AISG (I-frame, U-frame), RETAP, TMAAP Netconf RU Client

# S R ta P t C us calc F u C la S t ion ad F d C it S io n st B u y ff t i e n g f S la t g a r a t d / d s i t t o io p n Modulation Antenna
Line FCS FCS Byte Start / stop Start / stop Octet Device con A t L ro D l ler Netconf / Yang N h e Y a t n a c d n o l g n e f r / removal control un-stuffing flag removal flag detection forming Modem HDLC note: F w ra ro m n e g s F w C i S th wit F h r o f a la u m g t e s s to p N r u e o c m c e t b e iv e t e s r d o f can o f b A e L c D h s ain Flow control The result of the above architecture is that below mentioned parts of HDLC message are processed by entities as illustrated in Figure 14.4.2-2. F la g o c te 0 x 7 E

# R U
t S

# A D
o e c o s ta a d d

# D R
c te t n d a r tio n re s s y C o n tro o c te C o n tro b its N e tc o

# A IS G
lt l

# H D L C
n f C lie m e V a fr a n t s s a g e IN F O N o c te ts ria b le le n m e g th F o C Cc R Ste C ts

# R U
F la o c 0 x 7 gte E t

### 14.4.3 ALD operations
1) The NETCONF Client sends RPC <ald-communication> to the O-RU. The RPC has following input parameters:
- leaf: port-id (uint8) - contains the identity of the ALD port. The O-RU shall output the data to
(corresponds to O-RU resources provided to NETCONF Client as inventory information).
- leaf: ald-req-msg (up to 1 200 bytes) - may contain HDLC address, control bits and payload (see: 3GPP
TS 37.462 for details). The O-RU shall perform HDLC communication with the ALD as specified in [27] clause 4.5 "Message timing". 2) Immediately after the requested payload is sent to the ALD over the desired ALD port, the O-RU switches the ALD port into reception mode. 3) Bits received within reception window are formed to octets and inserted as payload into ald-resp-msg. 4) The O-RU responds to the NETCONF Client using the <rpc-reply> message containing following parameters:
- leaf: port-id (uint8)
- leaf: status
- leaf: ald-resp-msg (up to 1 200 bytes)
- leaf: frames-with-wrong-crc (4 bytes)
- leaf: frames-without-stop-flag (4 bytes)
- leaf: number-of-received-octets (4 bytes)
In case there is no response from the ALD received within the reception window, the record "ald-resp-msg" in <rpc-reply> sent by the O-RU shall be empty. 5) After reception, the O-RU shall wait a minimum of 3ms before the next transmission as per 3GPP TS 37.462, clause 4.5 "Message timing". General scenario for HDLC link establishment Precondition: M-Plane connectivity between NETCONF Client and NETCONF Server is successfully established. NETCONF Server reports presence of the supported HDLC Primary Devices. Procedure: 1) NETCONF Client triggers DC voltage on desired ALD ports using NETCONF <edit-config> RPC. After DC is turned on - NETCONF Client shall wait at least 3 s. 2) NETCONF Client performs HDLC bus scan using desired HDLC Primary Device offered by O-RU. 3) NETCONF Client determines presence of HDLC Secondary Devices connected to the ALD port. 4) NETCONF Client assigns HDLC addresses to desired HDLC Secondary Devices using HDLC Secondary Device unique id obtained from step 3-4 or from other pre-configured sources. 5) NETCONF Client initiates link establishment with secondary devices by sending SNRM command and the secondary device answers with UA command which will be used in ald-resp-msg. 6) NETCONF Client starts polling procedure for every HDLC-addressed Secondary Device. NETCONF client may skip step 2 and/or 3 in the procedure. HDLC speed alignment between ALD ports and secondary device(s) that supports multiple speeds is performed prior to step 2, 3, 4. For detail of speed alignment, please refer to [88] clause 4.1. Postcondition: Detected and addressed HDLC Secondary Devices are available for configuration.

## 14.5 Operational aspects of external IO

### 14.5.1 Introduction
An O-RU can connect to one or more input and output ports for external device supervision and control. The External IO has the following functions:
- INPUT: Supervising external devices.
- OUTPUT: Controlling external devices.
Also, external IO function includes signalling to get the O-RU and O-RU controller in sync, enables port monitoring on the O-RU and provides notification from the O-RU to an O-RU controller, and provides control from an O-RU controller to the O-RU and enables output port controlling on the O-RU. The O-RU only implements external IO yang module if the O-RU supports External IO aspect. Through the model O-RU may optionally inform about hardware relation between External IO and O-RU connector(s) used by specific External IO. Separate O-RU connectors may be reported for single External IO. A change in condition of the external IO shall not affect other O-RU services such as RF transmission / reception behaviour.

### 14.5.2 External input
This clause explains single external input line case. For multiple external inputs case, same behaviour for each input shall be processed individually. For input, the O-RU and O-RU controller shall support two scenarios, as illustrated in Figure 14.5.2-1. 1) To retrieve input state from O-RU controller and respond the input state from the O-RU to O-RU controller. 2) To send notification from the O-RU to O-RU controller when input state is changed. The value shall be:
- TRUE: Circuit is open.
- FALSE: Circuit is closed
When nothing is connected to the line the value shall be TRUE.

### 14.5.3 External output
This clause explains single external output line case. For multiple external outputs case, same behaviour for each output shall be processed individually. For output, the O-RU and O-RU controller shall support two scenarios, as illustrated in Figures 14.5.3-1 and 14.5.3-2. 1) To retrieve output state from O-RU controller and respond the output state from the O-RU to O-RU controller. 2) To send edit-config from the O-RU to O-RU controller when output state change is required. The value shall be:
- TRUE: Circuit is open.
- FALSE: Circuit is closed
The default values shall be TRUE.

## 14.6 O-RU connectors

### 14.6.1 Introduction to O-RU connectors
The O-RU may indicate presence and label of its physical connectors of specific type. The O-RU connectors can be exposed through o-ran-hardware.yang module as objects of class "O-RU-CONNECTOR". In the present document, coaxial antenna connectors serving for antenna feeders and beamforming-calibration lines are introduced.

### 14.6.2 Connectors related to antennas and antenna arrays

#### 14.6.2.1 Antenna connectors
This clause describes usage of antenna connectors related to feeders (used to carry air interface signals between O-RU and external antennas or external antenna arrays) and beamforming calibration lines (used by O-RU i.e. to handle supplementary signals needed for external antenna arrays calibration). Exposed O-RU Connectors of class "O-RU-ANTENNA-CONNECTOR" are based on class "O-RU-CONNECTOR" and are used in o-ran-uplane-conf.yang module to show how feeders and beamforming calibration lines are related to antenna arrays and their array elements. This allows to align configuration with physical cabling that technicians need to connect between O-RU and external physical antenna array.

#### 14.6.2.2 Distinguishable types of antenna connectors

##### 14.6.2.2.1 Feeder
Exposed O-RU connectors of class "O-RU-FEEDER" are based on class "O-RU-ANTENNA-CONNECTOR". Objects of this class are intended to represent physical connectors for coaxial feeders between O-RU and external antennas or antenna arrays. The feeder connector can be referenced by single array element of specific array, however in case the array element is shared between tx-array and rx-array or by multiband arrays, such O-RU connector is expected to be referenced by each of arrays containing array element fed with RF signals through such connector. For this class of O-RU connectors, name shown in the model shall be identical to the label of physical connector visible on the O-RU's enclosure.

##### 14.6.2.2.2 Beamforming calibration
Exposed O-RU connectors of class "O-RU-BF-CAL" are based on class "O-RU-ANTENNA-CONNECTOR". Objects of this class are intended to represent physical connectors for supplementary coaxial cables used in antenna calibration process for external antenna arrays. The beamforming calibration connector is to be referenced by group of array elements belonging to single array. This is also possible, that there will be references to few groups of array elements belonging to different antenna arrays (e.g. related tx-array and rx-array or arrays for different bands that share array elements). For this class of O-RU connectors, name shown in the model shall be identical to the label of physical connector visible on the O-RU's enclosure.

### 14.6.3 Connectors related to other O-RU functions

#### 14.6.3.1 Overview
This clause describes usage of other types of O-RU connectors physically available on O-RU's enclosure. Exposed O-RU Connectors of classes described in this clause are based on class "O-RU-CONNECTOR" and are used in o-ran-ald-port.yang and o-ran-externalio.yang module to show how these connectors are related to internal O-RU elements.

#### 14.6.3.2 RS-485 connectors
Exposed O-RU connectors of class "RS-485" are based on class "O-RU-CONNECTOR". Objects of this class are intended to represent physical connectors for RS-485 interface used e.g. for communication between O-RU and Antenna Line Devices. For this class of O-RU connectors, name shown in the model shall be identical to the label of physical connector visible on the O-RU's enclosure.

#### 14.6.3.3 External IO connectors
Exposed O-RU connectors of class "O-RU-EXTIO" are based on class "O-RU-CONNECTOR". Objects of this class are intended to represent physical connectors for externally available input / output lines that may optionally be offered by the O-RU. For this class of O-RU connectors, name shown in the model shall be identical to the label of physical connector visible on the O-RU's enclosure.

# 15 Details of O-RU operations

## 15.1 Retrieval of O-RU information
This clause provides handling for O-RU controller(s) to retrieve O-RU information from O-RU. The further actions such as SW Management, U-plane configuration and Performance Management use these retrieved O-RU information. The following information, for example, can be retrieved from the O-RU: hw/hardware/component
- retrieve mfg-name - the name of the O-RU manufacturer
- retrieve serial-num –- the serial number of the O-RU
- retrieve software-rev - the version of the O-RU software build
o-ran-hardware/hardware/component/
- retrieve product-code - the O-RAN defined product code
o-ran-operations/operational-info/declarations
- retrieve supported-mplane-version - the version of the O-RAN M-Plane interface
- retrieve supported-cusplane-version - the version of the O-RAN CUS-Plane interface
- retrieve supported-header-mechanism - the type of C/U plane headers supported by the O-RU
o-ran-operations/operational-state
- retrieve restart-cause – the reason for the last restart
o-ran-sync/sync
- retrieve sync-state – the synchronisation state of the O-RU
The detail of O-RU information, see corresponding YANG modules in clause D.

## 15.2 User plane message routing

### 15.2.1 Introduction
The purpose of U-Plane configuration is to define the relationship between U-Plane application endpoints in the O-DU and those in the O-RU. After such relationships are defined, the application endpoints are able to exchange IQ data using the U-Plane application protocol defined in clause 5.4 of [2]. Precondition:
- M-Plane connectivity is established between NETCONF Client and NETCONF Server.

### 15.2.2 Configurable format for eAxC_ID
The eAxC_ID is used by C/U-plane application to manage eCPRI communication between desired C/U-Plane application components in O-DU and O-RU. As defined in clause 5.1.3.2.7 of [2], the eAxC_ID consists of four parameters: DU_Port_ID, RU_Port_ID, CC_ID and BandSector_ID. Order of parameters in eAxC_ID shall follow definitions in CUS-Plane spec. In this version of the O- RAN WG4 specification, the length of eAxC_ID is constant and equal to 16 bits. To enable optimal sharing of the 16 bits between these four parameters, the assignment of eAxC_ID bits to parameters is not fixed. As a consequence, there is a need for NETCONF client to configure the bit assignment to parameters mappings using the M-Plane interface.
> NOTE 1: [2] refers to the eAxC_ID parameters as DU_Port_ID, RU_Port_ID, CC_ID and BandSector_ID and the
present document and associated YANG models refer to the eaxc-id parameters as du-ports, ru-ports, cc- ids and band-sectors. To handle flexible bit assignment, configurable bitmasks are defined for each parameter.
> NOTE 2: Flexible configuration means, that bits of eAxC_ID can be assigned to parameters in runtime.
Rules to be followed by NETCONF Client when configuring bit assignments:
- notation used for parameters forming eAxC_ID is from the LSB.
- each parameter uses consecutive bits.
- each parameter can occupy 0-16 bits.
- single bit of eAxC_ID cannot be assigned to more than one parameter.
RPC edit-config shall be used to configure bit assignments to O-RU. Bit assignment change for parameters related to an existing carrier is not allowed. (Impacted carriers need to be deactivated and deleted prior to any change in eAxC_ID configuration, and then be subsequently created and activated.) An example of bit assignment usage where 3 bits are assigned to the BAND-SECTOR-ID, 3 bits for CC-ID, 7 bit for DU-PORT-ID and 3 bits for RU-PORT-ID is shown below: <o-du-port-bitmask>1111111000000000</o-du-port-bitmask> <band-sector-bitmask>0000000111000000</band-sector-bitmask> <ccid-bitmask>0000000000111000</ccid-bitmask> <ru-port-bitmask>0000000000000111</ru-port-bitmask>

### 15.2.3 U-Plane endpoint addressing
Parameter "eaxc-id" for low-level-tx-endpoint and low-level-rx-endpoint, defined using an unsigned 16-bit integer, shall follow the eaxc-id addressing schema defined in clause 15.2.2. Refer to the eaxc-id parameter description in CUS plane specification clause 5.1.3.2.7 of [2]. The NETCONF Client shall assign unique values to the "eaxc_id" addresses to all low-level-rx-endpoint elements and low-level-tx-endpoint elements, within the O-RU when operating in the same direction (Tx or Rx), even when these operate across different named interfaces of the O-RU. More precisely, the same eaxc-id cannot be simultaneously assigned to multiple low-level-rx-endpoints or to multiple and low-level-tx-endpoints. Clarifying eaxc-id assignment by example, and unless otherwise specified, within the same O-RU (considering a 2 × 2 MIMO): Case 1: Allowed eaxc-id assignment (same antenna ports used for Tx and Rx) ▪ low-level-rx-endpoint (name 1) - eaxc-id=1 ▪ low-level-tx-endpoint (name 1) - eaxc-id=1 ▪ low-level-rx-endpoint (name 2) - eaxc-id=2 ▪ low-level-tx-endpoint (name 2) - eaxc-id=2 Case 2: Allowed eaxc-id assignment (separate antenna ports used for Tx and Rx) ▪ low-level-rx-endpoint (name 1) - eaxc-id=1 ▪ low-level-tx-endpoint (name 1) - eaxc-id=2 ▪ low-level-rx-endpoint (name 2) - eaxc-id=3 ▪ low-level-tx-endpoint (name 2) - eaxc-id=4 Case 3: Prohibited eaxc-id assignment (separate antenna ports used for Tx and Rx) ▪ low-level-rx-endpoint (name 1) - eaxc-id=1 ▪ low-level-tx-endpoint (name 1) - eaxc-id=2 ▪ low-level-rx-endpoint (name 2) - eaxc-id=1 ▪ low-level-tx-endpoint (name 2) – eaxc-id=2 The O-RU shall reject any configuration that corresponds to a prohibited eaxc-id assignment.

### 15.2.4 General configuration scenario
Below is the general scenario to be followed by a NETCONF Client in order to properly configure communication between C/U-Plane endpoints in the O-DU and O-RU. Operations can be performed in other order (including combining some of them in one request) than provided below assumed the highlighted rules are followed and result (overall configuration) of each request sent by NETCONF Client is valid.
> NOTE 1: Selected highlighted rules below:
▪ eaxc-id shall be unique for all low-level-[tr]x-endpoints within the O-RU in the same direction (Tx or Rx) and linked with any low-level-rx-link or low-level-tx-link. ▪ at the moment of creation, every low-level-rx-link shall be linked to an existing rx-array-carrier, an existing low-level-rx-endpoint and an existing processing-element (or an existing transport- qualified-processing-element when the processing element is configured by the list additional- transport-session-type-elements). In this latter case, the O-RU shall use the /user-plane- configuration/low-level-rx-links/transport-qualified-processing-element schema nodes instead of the /user-plane-configuration/low-level-rx-links/processing-element schema node, an O-RU Controller shall still configure the processing-element schema node in the low-level-rx-links list with a leafref to valid ru-element, but this shall not be used by the O-RU. ▪ at the moment of creation, every low-level-tx-link shall be linked to an existing tx-array-carrier, an existing low-level-tx-endpoint and an existing processing-element (or an existing transport- qualified-processing-element when the processing element is configured by the list additional- transport-session-type-elements). In this latter case, the O-RU shall use the /user-plane- configuration/low-level-tx-links/transport-qualified-processing-element schema nodes instead of the /user-plane-configuration/low-level-tx-links/processing-element schema node, an O-RU Controller shall still configure the processing-element schema node in the low-level-tx-links list with a leafref to valid ru-element, but this shall not be used by the O-RU. 1) NETCONF Client determines the presence of following operational data offered by NETCONF Server:
- tx-array(s) - by fetching the list of tx-arrays in o-ran-uplane-conf.yang
- rx-array(s) – by fetching the list of rx-arrays in o-ran-uplane-conf.yang
- endpoint-type(s) – by fetching list endpoint-types in o-ran-uplane-conf.yang
- static-low-level-tx-endpoint element(s) – by fetching the list static-low-level-tx-endpoints in o-ran-
uplane-conf.yang
- static-low-level-rx-endpoint element(s) – by fetching the list static-low-level-rx-endpoints in o-ran-
uplane-conf.yang
- endpoint-capacity-sharing-group(s)- by fetching list endpoint-capacity-sharing-groups in o-ran-uplane-
conf.yang if it is reported
- endpoint-bf-profile-group(s) - by fetching list endpoint-bf-profile-group in o-ran-uplane-conf.yang if
O-RU supports YANG feature BF-DELAY-PROFILE
- interface(s)– by fetching list of interfaces in o-ran-interfaces.yang
- O-RU's connector(s) – by fetching list of related-o-ru-connectors (if exist) in o-ran-uplane-conf.yang
2) NETCONF Client determines capabilities exposed by endpoint-type(s), static-low-level-tx-endpoint(s) and static-low-level-rx-endpoint(s). Additionally. NETCONF Client determines capabilities exposed by endpoint-capacity-sharing-groups and specific parameters proprietary to [tr]x-array(s). 3) For operational data determined in step 1) NETCONF Client examines the relationship between:
- static-low-level-tx-endpoint(s) and tx-array(s) in o-ran-uplane-conf.yang
- static-low-level-rx-endpoint(s) and rx-array(s) in o-ran-uplane-conf.yang
- endpoint-type and all static-low-level-[tr]x-endpoint(s) of this endpoint-type
- each endpoint-capacity-sharing-group and member static-low-level-[tr]x-endpoint(s)
- each endpoint-type and all endpoint-bf-profile-group(s) it supports
- each static-low-level-tx-endpoint and interface
- each static-low-level-rx-endpoint and interface
- tx-array(s), rx-array(s) and their elements in o-ran-uplane-conf.yang
- o-ru-connector(s) and [tr]x-array in o-ran-uplane-conf.yang (if available)
- interface(s) and port(s) in ietf-interfaces.yang (with o-ran port-reference augmentation)
> NOTE 2: NETCONF Client retrieves the content of o-ran-beamforming.yang module to obtain knowledge
regarding beamforming-related parameters that apply for particular NETCONF Server. This step is optional, as o-ran-beamforming.yang module exists only in case NETCONF Server supports beamforming. Obtained parameters are needed by Netconf Client to perform beamforming control. 4) NETCONF Client determines the endpoint's ability of all supported beamforming methods list and related delay profiles. Information about beamforming method lists supported by endpoints is exposed through parameter endpoint-bf-profile-group. If the beamforming method list does not report its associated supported-delay-profile, it uses the default bandwidth-scs-delay-state list to find its delay parameter values. Each bf-profile-id is used to identify an endpoint-bf-profile-group which indicates a list of beamforming methods that can be used simultaneously, and delay profiles associated with each list of beamforming methods. When O-RU indicates support for a combination of BF-METHOD(s) and associated delay-profile per endpoint, all endpoints supporting the same combination of BF-METHOD(s) shall advertise the same delay-profile value. Multiple bf-profile-id(s) capabilities can be exposed by endpoint-types. 5) NETCONF Client determines each static-low-level-rx-endpoint's ability to support non-time managed and/or time managed traffic. Information about managed delayed traffic type supported by an endpoint-type is exposed through parameter managed-delay-support (enumeration) and it indicates whether the endpoints of this particular endpoint-type can support time managed traffic (MANAGED), non-time managed traffic (NON_MANAGED), or both (BOTH). 6) NETCONF Client determines and selects static-low-level-rx-endpoint(s) and static-low-level-tx-endpoint(s), that are suitable for the desired O-DU cell configuration to be used for configuring array carriers. Example considerations for selection are listed below: ▪ Transport aspect: static-low-level-rx-endpoint and static-low-level-tx-endpoint selected should be accessible via the intended interface(s), extra consideration is needed for optional interface restrictions declared by static-low-level-[tr]x-endpoints ▪ Antenna array: O-DU's intention of which antenna array is going to be used by the O-DU cell related configuration will be input for selection ▪ Type of traffic: O-DU's intention of type of traffic to be used on endpoint, for example, non-time managed traffic or time managed traffic will be input for selection ▪ Beamforming type: O-DU's intention for beamforming type to be used for UL and DL will impact selection 7) NETCONF Client performs C/U-Plane transport configuration between O-DU and O-RU. NETCONF Client configures interfaces and creates processing-elements related to the interfaces offering access to selected endpoints (suitable in terms of capabilities and able to process signals related with desired [tr]x-array) and ports (suitable in terms of capabilities and able to transfer signals from/to a desired interface). Details of configuring interfaces and processing-elements are described in clause 7. 8) Once transport layer is configured, O-DU may perform initial verification of C/U Plane Transport Connectivity as described in clause 7.6 - with respect to content of list "restricted-interfaces" every selected endpoint is reachable through. 9) NETCONF Client creates low-level-tx-endpoints and low-level-rx-endpoints referring to static-low-level-tx- endpoints and static-low-level-rx-endpoints determined and selected in step 6) as suitable for desired array- carrier configuration. NETCONF Client assigns unique eaxc-id(s) values to every created low-level-[tr]x- endpoint. Obtained information from step 2)-5) shall be respected when NETCONF Client configures low- level-[tr]x-endpoints referenced to static-low-level[tr]x-endpoints by parameter name.
> NOTE 3: Uniqueness of eaxc-id is mandatory within the O-RU in the same direction (Tx or Rx) even across
interface elements having relationship to low-level-rx-endpoint elements or low-level-tx-endpoint elements. In case NETCONF Client wants particular value of eAxC_ID to be used for non-time managed traffic, NETCONF Client shall assign this eAxC_ID to parameter "eaxc-id" belonging to low-level-rx-endpoint, that is capable to support non-time managed traffic (as per reference to capabilities exposed by corresponding static-low-level-rx-endpoint corresponding to low-level-rx-endpoint by name). When assigning eAxC_ID to a low-level-rx-endpoint, NETCONF Client shall also configure whether the low- level-rx-endpoint is to work in non-time-managed mode (when applicable) or not using non-time-managed- delay-enabled. NETCONF client shall not change time management types of a low-level-rx-endpoint in case there is traffic served by the endpoint. Configuration is assumed to be static for run-time. When NETCONF server declares that an endpoint supports multiple bf-profile-id(s), NETCONF Client may configure configured-bf-profile-id in the list of low-level-[tr]x-endpoint to one of the values reported in bf- profile-group reported in the related endpoint-type and the O-RU shall use it. If the NETCONF Client does not configure configured-bf-profile-id per endpoint, the O-RU shall use the beamforming method determined by section type supported by endpoint and default delay profile. 10) NETCONF Client creates tx-array-carrier(s) and rx-array-carrier(s). The tx-array-carriers and rx-array-carriers can be configured with type set to LTE, NR or DSS-LTE-NR. The configuration of array carrier with type DSS-LTE-NR is only allowed when the O-RU supports Dynamic Spectrum Sharing (DSS) feature as indicated by feature DSS_LTE_NR in o-ran-module-cap.yang. If the O-RU indicates it supports the feature DSS_LTE_NR but does not support Section Extension 9, then instead of configuring a carrier as DSS-LTE- NR, the O-DU shall configure DSS by using different eAxC ids (i.e. different endpoints) as described in CUS plane specification clause 7.2.6 of [2]. Type NRB Centre of channel bandw T id S t h

# 3 8
(s .1 a m e S a e s c t F io RE n F a . s

# 4 .
d 2. e f i [ n e d ]) in clause 5.4.2.1 of 3GPP LTE or NRBmod2=1 Between (k-1) RE and k RE of nPRB RB DSS NRBmod2=0 Between the highest RE of (nPRB-1) RB and k RE of nPRB RB NR N NRBm m o o d d = = Centre of kth RE of nPRB RB RB The parameters k, n and N referenced here are specified in Table 5.4.2.2-1 of 3GPP TS 38.104. PRB RB 11) NETCONF Client creates low-level-[tr]x-link(s) to make relationship between low-level-[tr]x-endpoint(s), [tr]x-array-carriers and processing-elements belonging to transport. Respective TX path and RX path linkage shall be followed. This is illustrated in Figure 15.2.4-1.
> NOTE 4: C/U-Plane traffic can be prioritized by reference user-plane-uplink-marking indicated by low-level-rx-
link in o-ran-uplane-conf.yang. The reference is to o-ran-processing-element.yang, where it is linked to up-marking-name. Further the up-marking-name points to o-ran-interfaces.yang, where it ends up pointing to priority depending on actually used u-plane transport (either PCP for Ethernet or DSCP for IP). For details regarding priorities see [2], clause 5.3. Detailed contents of objects shown in "u-plane configuration" box in Figure 15.2.4-1 are defined in the o-ran-uplane- conf.yang module. High level sequences about carrier creation are described in clause 15.3.1.

## 15.3 Carrier configuration

### 15.3.1 Carrier creation
This clause provides high level scenario for carrier creation procedure. Precondition for below steps are steps 1 to 6 from clause 15.2.4. The below steps are covered by steps 7 and 9 to 11 in clause 15.2.4 where those steps are described with more details. 1) NETCONF Client creates the tx-array-carriers in relation to the desired tx-arrays.
> NOTE 1: Generally the number of tx-array-carriers is the same as multiple of the desired number of tx-arrays
and the number of component carriers. 2) NETCONF Client creates the rx-array-carriers in relation to the desired rx-arrays.
> NOTE 2: Generally the number of rx-array-carriers is the same as multiple of the desired number of rx-arrays
and the number of component carriers. 3) NETCONF Client creates the processing-elements related to interfaces offering access to endpoints. 4) NETCONF Client creates low-level-tx-endpoints and low-level-rx-endpoints related to desired static-low- level-tx endpoints and static-low-level-rx-endpoints respectively. 5) NETCONF Client creates the low-level-tx-links containing relationship to the existing tx-array-carriers, low-level-tx-endpoints and existing processing-elements. 6) NETCONF Client creates the low-level-rx-links containing the relationship to existing rx-array-carriers, low-level-rx-endpoints and existing processing-elements. With the above steps successfully performed, the relationship between C/U-Plane application endpoints at O-DU and O-RU is configured.

### 15.3.2 Activation, deactivation and sleep
The NETCONF Client performs activation of a tx/rx-array-carrier by setting the value of the parameter "active" at tx- array-carrier element / rx-array-carrier element to "ACTIVE". The NETCONF Client performs deactivation of a tx/rx-array-carrier by setting the value of the parameter "active" at tx- array-carrier element / rx-array-carrier element to "INACTIVE" Communication between related U-Plane endpoints is enabled under condition, that for corresponding tx-array-carrier or rx-array-carrier value of parameter "active" is "ACTIVE" and value of parameter "state" is "READY". Otherwise, communication is disabled. The NETCONF Client can put the tx-array-carrier / rx-array-carrier to sleep by setting value of parameter "active" in the corresponding tx-array-carrier element / rx-array-carrier element to "SLEEP". A particular tx-array-carrier / rx-array-carrier is in sleep mode when value of its parameter "active" is "SLEEP" and value of its parameter "state" is "READY". To save energy, O-RU may disable all elements of tx-array / rx-array associated with the tx-array-carrier / rx-array-carrier in sleep mode provided there is no impact to operation of other tx- array-carriers / rx-array-carriers. This means that, the O-RU may disable tx-array / rx-array elements only if all affected tx-array-carriers / rx-array-carriers (associated with the tx-array / rx-array or any tx-array / rx-array that shares elements with the tx-array / rx-array) are in sleep mode, as defined in this clause. For any newly activated tx-array-carrier / rx- array-carrier, the O-RU shall use the antenna mask (refer to clause 20.3.2), if an antenna mask is configured, for the tx- array / rx-array associated with the tx-array-carrier / rx-array-carrier. If a tx-array-carrier / rx-array-carrier is assigned to a tx-array / rx-array all of whose elements are at that time disabled due to sleep mode as defined in this clause, O-RU shall enable all those elements of the tx-array / rx-array to allow carrier activation. O-RU shall not autonomously change [tr]x-array-carrier::active to "ACTIVE". For detailed description of tx-array-carriers and rx-array-carriers, refer to description substatement in YANG models. and O-DU during carrier activation procedure. during carrier deactivation procedure. The O-RU may optionally expose parameter availability-status for configured [tr]x-array-carrier(s). This availability-status parameter is intended to supplement parameter state. This allows O-RU to provide the current status about various conditions related to a [tr]x-array-carrier, as shown in Table 15.3.2-1. Value of availability- Current condition of [tr]x-array-carrier Notes status (empty) There are no faults that impact the [tr]x-array-carrier state FAILED There is at least one fault related to source internal to O-RU that made the ACTIVE [tr]x-array-carrier to turn to INACTIVE and/or makes INACTIVE [tr]x-array-carrier not able to become ACTIVE. DEPENDENCY There is at least one fault related to source external to O-RU Example of fault related to that made the ACTIVE [tr]x-array-carrier to turn to INACTIVE external source can be the and/or makes INACTIVE [tr]x-array-carrier not able to one related to lost become ACTIVE. synchronisation source. or transitions outside of below diagram is not allowed. parameters
> NOTE: BUSY state is only available during transition and existence of this state depends on internal O-RU
design.

### 15.3.3 Carrier state's relationship to synchronization state

#### 15.3.3.1 Synchronization state and carrier state transitions
The O-RU shall update tx-array-carrier and rx-array-carrier states based on the O-RU's sync-state. The flow chart shown in Figure 15.3.3.1-1 illustrate the possible transitions and associated parameters values for the two array-carrier in the possible synchronization state. When the O-RU implements HOLDOVER, tx-array-carrier and rx-array- carrier possible states and transitions shall be the same for sync LOCKED and HOLDOVER mode. When O-RU transitions to the FREERUN state the only possible tx-array-carrier and rx-array-carrier state is DISABLE/INACTIVE.

# O -D U
c o n tro lle d c a rrie r a c tiv a tio n (a c tiv e - > A C T IV E ) e x te rn a l tim e so u rc e re sto re d

# O -D U
c o n tro lle d c a rrie r a c tiv a tio n (a c tiv e - > A C T IV E ) c a rrie r_ c a rrie r_ a c tiv e e x te rn a l tim e so u rc e lo st c a rrie r_ c a rrie r_ a c tiv e sy n c ::L O C K E D c a rrie r_ s ta te ::D IS A B L E D c a rrie r_ a c tiv e ::IN A C T IV E

# O -D U c o n tro lle d
c a rrie r a c tiv a tio n (a c tiv e -> A C T IV E ) c a rrie r_ sta te ::B U S Y a c tiv e ::A C T IV E c a rrie r_ a c tiv e ::IN A C T IV E

# O -D U c o n tro lle d c a r rie r d e a c tiv a tio n
(a c tiv e -> IN A C T IV E ) c a rrie r_ sta te ::R E A D Y

# O -D U c o n tro lle d c a rrie r g o in g
::A C T IV E c a rrie r_ to sle e p (a c tiv e -> S L E E P )

# O -D U c o n tro lle d c a r rie r
a c tiv a tio n (a c tiv e -> A C T IV E ) sy n c ::F R E E R U N e x te rn a l tim e s o u r c e c a rrie r_ s ta te ::D IS A B L E D re sto re d c a rrie r_ a c tiv e ::IN A C T IV E H o ld o v e r tim e e la p se d sy n c ::H O L D O V E R c a rrie r_ s ta te ::D IS A B L E D c a rrie r_ a c tiv e ::IN A C T IV E

# O -D U c o n tro lle d
c a rrie r a c tiv a tio n (a c tiv e -> A C T IV E ) c a rrie r_ s ta te ::B U S Y a c tiv e ::A C T IV E c a rrie r_ a c tiv e ::IN A C T IV E

# O -D U c o n tro lle d c a r rie r d e a c tiv a tio n
(a c tiv e -> IN A C T IV E ) c a rrie r_ s ta te ::R E A D Y

# O -D U c o n tro lle d c a rrie r g o in g
::A C T IV E c a rrie r_ to sle e p (a c tiv e -> S L E E P )

# O -D U c o n tro lle d c a r rie r
a c tiv a tio n (a c tiv e -> A C T IV E ) a a c c tiv e tiv e

# F A U L T Y C A S E
(o th e r th a n sy n c )

# O -R U a u to n o m o u s
re c o v e r a c tio n

# O -D U c o n tro lle d
c a rrie r d e a c tiv a tio n (a c tiv e -> IN A C T IV E ) ::S L E E P e x te rn a l sy n c lo (w ith o u t

# H O L D O V E R
m o d e )

# F A U L T Y C A S E
(o th e r th a n sy n c )

# O -R U a u to n o m o u s
re c o v e r a c tio n

# O -D U c o n tro lle d
c a rrie r d e a c tiv a tio n (a c tiv e -> IN A C T IV E ) ::S L E E P st compared to sync state When an O-RU changes its synchronization state sync-state to FREERUN, it shall perform carrier deactivation of all active tx-array-carrier(s) and rx-array-carrier(s). The O-RU shall communicate the synchronization-state-change, tx-array-carriers-state-change and rx-array-carriers-state-change notifications to all notification subscribers. The following two sections describe the tx-array-carrier/rx-array-carrier behaviour and O-RU/O-DU communication when synchronization is lost, and when synchronization is restored.

#### 15.3.3.2 Synchronization lost and HOLDOVER mode expired
between the O-RU and O-DU when O-RU loose synchronization and enters to FREERUN mode. The process can be divided into 5 steps as shown in Figure 15.3.3.2-1and briefly described below. 1) If the O-RU implements the optional HOLDOVER state, once the O-RU detects that it has lost connection to its timing source and its sync-state moves to HOLDOVER, the O-RU will send a synchronization-state- change notification to one (or more) subscribed O-DU(s) indicating that the O-RU is in HOLDOVER. If the O-RU does not implement HOLDOVER, then this step is skipped. 2) After the O-RU HOLDOVER timer expires, or if the O-RU does not implement HOLDOVER, the O-RU moves the sync-state to FREERUN. 3) The O-RU sends a synchronization-state-change notification to all subscribed O-DUs indicating that the O- RU is in FREERUN. 4) The O-RU deactivates all active array-carriers, stops RF transmission and ceases sending traffic to O-DU.

#### 15.3.3.3 External timing source restored
restored, and it illustrates the communication between O-RU and O-DU to restore operation between O-RU and O-DU. The restoration process can be divided into 4 steps as shown in Figure 15.3.3.2-1 and described below. 1) Once the O-RU detects that synchronization has been restored, it changes the sync-state to LOCKED, and then sends a synchronization-state-change notification to all subscribed O-DUs. 2) The O-RU then waits for the O-DU reaction. 3) O-DU triggers activation of all O-RUs carriers. For activation of a carrier, see figure 15.3.2-0a.

## 15.4 Beamforming

### 15.4.1 Beamforming configuration
The beamforming functionality allows the O-RU to influence the angle of the main lobe of the signal which is radiated from/received by the O-RU. Beamforming support is optional, and an O-RU shall indicate that it supports such functionality by indicating that it supports the "urn:o-ran:beamforming:x.y" namespace. A multi-band capable O-RU shall be able to support independent beamforming configuration on each of its supported tx-arrays and/or rx-arrays depends on O-RU antenna configuration. An O-RU indicates the support of a beamforming mode of operation per endpoint. Endpoints capable of either BF or non-BF operation are distinguished by the capabilities exposed by endpoint-types in endpoint-beam-capacity grouping. Arrays capable of BF operation are distinguished by the relation to the endpoints and the reference from o-ran- beamforming yang module.

### 15.4.2 Pre-defined beamforming configuration
In case the O-RU supports beamforming, the o-ran-beamforming.yang and o-ran-uplane-conf.yang modules are used to report the pre-defined relationship between supported beams to a NETCONF client. A capabilities-group is used to uniquely identify separate tx-arrays and/or rx-arrays supported by an O-RU with the beamforming configuration referencing the set of tx-arrays and rx-arrays that are associated with this capabilities-group. A default service area of the O-RU is determined as the grid of pre-defined beams. When O-RU updates beamforming configuration as described in 15.4.3, the grid of pre-defined beams can be newly defined. In this case, the default service area is changed accordingly. O-RU may support new service area by applying tilt-offset to the given default service area in elevation and/or azimuth domains as described in 15.4.3.

### 15.4.3 Beamforming configuration update
This clause provides the method to modify and to apply the beamforming configuration (weights, attributes and/or beam properties). The modification of the beamforming information is allowed only if O-RU supports the feature "MODIFY- BF-CONFIG" used for defining the modification of beamforming configuration. The beamforming configuration is stored in the O-RU and comes from the O-RU's software, treated in clause 8. The O- RU shall locate the beamforming configuration file in the generic folder, i.e. O-RAN/beamforming/ or o- ran/beamforming/. To modify the beamforming configuration, the following steps are applied. 1) NETCONF client can retrieve the file list of the O-RU's folder: O-RAN/beamforming/ or o-ran/beamforming/. 2) NETCONF client can trigger the upload of the beamforming configuration file from the O-RU's folder. 3) Operator can recover the uploaded file and edit the beamforming configuration file offline. 4) NETCONF client can download the file to the original folder. The modified beamforming configuration file shall not have the same name as any other file in the folder. Its file name is the matter of implementation. The beam properties in o-ran-beamforming YANG module contain coarse-fine, coarse-fine-beam-relation and neighbour-beam for each beam-id. This information is received from the O-RU as O-RU's capability at O-RU start-up and typically are used by the scheduler in O-DU. A NETCONF client (O-RU Controller) can modify the beamforming information via file described in this clause. When the beamforming configuration (weight, attribute and beam properties) is modified via file, the configuration of the beam properties list in the o-ran-beamforming YANG module should be modified together via the same file if affected by the modified weight and/or attribute. An O-RU supporting the modification of beamforming configuration shall support the storage of at least two beamforming files per capabilities-group supported. For each capabilities-group, one file corresponds to the pre- defined (factory, read-only) beamforming configuration and at least one file corresponds to a modified (read-write) beamforming file. The O-RU has the responsibility to remove existing file and prepares space for new file when the NETCONF client file-download rpc is issued. When the O-RU only supports the storage of a single modified (read- write) beamforming file per band of operation, i.e. number-of-writeable-beamforming-files (sic) = 1 the file- download operation for the modified beamforming configuration needs to be done while neither tx-array-carriers nor rx-array-carriers are configured in the O-RU to avoid the removal of the modified beamforming configuration file for the current active software. If the O-RU supports the capability to store two or more modified beamforming configuration files per band of operation in the O-RU, i.e. number-of-writeable-beamforming-files > 1, the NETCONF file-download operation can be performed without any timing limitation. That's because the modified beamforming configuration file for the current beamforming configuration can be kept during the file-download operation. To apply the new modified beamforming configuration, the following steps are applied: 1) The NETCONF client can download the file to the beamforming folder if the O-RU supports the capability number-of-writeable-beamforming-files > 1. 2) If the O-RU doesn’t support in-service-bf-update, the NETCONF client shall deactivate tx-array-carriers and rx-array-carriers in the U-Plane configuration by setting "INACTIVE" for the active parameters if they are ACTIVE. When the supported capability in-service-bf-update is advertised by the O-RU, and if the NETCONF client supports the beamforming configuration update in service, the NETCONF client can array-carriers in the U-Plane configuration. 3) Optionally, the NETCONF client shall delete tx-array-carriers and rx-array-carriers and the capability in- service-bf-update shall not be supported, if O-RU does not support the capability update-bf-non-delete. 4) Alternatively, the NETCONF client can trigger the download of the modified beamforming configuration file to the folder if the O-RU's capability is number-of-writeable-beamforming-files =1. 5) Regardless of whether or not to deactivate tx-array-carriers and rx-array-carriers, the NETCONF client shall activate the modified beamforming configuration by using:
- activate-beamforming-config-by-capability-group rpc and selecting the modified beamforming
configuration file and the capabilities-group for which this modified configuration applies. 6) If a NETCONF client subscribes to the notification capability-group-beamforming-information-update in advance, the O-RU sends such notification to the notification subscriber. Then the NETCONF client can subsequently retrieve beam properties in o-ran-beamforming YANG module via NETCONF <get> operation. If the O-RU supports in-service-bf-update and completes the update beamforming, and the O-RU applies the new update beamforming information to the tx-array-carriers and rx-array-carriers, the O-RU sends the notification to the NETCONF client that have subscribed to receive the notification.
> NOTE: In service updating of beamforming weights without carrier deactivation entails an uncertainty of
beamforming weight usage limited to the time between O-RU sending notifications to the time the NETCONF client receives the notification. This uncertainty could cause an interruption of user data traffic, so should be done with caution. Disabling the active carriers prior to making any configuration changes and then re-enabling the carriers after configuration changes are completed does not involve this uncertainty. 7) Optionally, the NETCONF client shall create tx-array-carriers and rx-array-carriers again, if the O-RU does not support the capability update-bf-non-delete. 8) The NETCONF Client shall activate tx-array-carriers and rx-array-carriers in the U-Plane configuration by setting "ACTIVE" for active parameters. If the NETCONF client did not deactivate tx-array-carriers and rx- array-carriers (in the step 2 of the procedure), the NETCONF client doesn’t need to activate tx-array- carriers and rx-array-carriers. Then the new edited beamforming information is applied to the new tx-array-carriers and rx-array-carriers in the U- Plane configuration. [Abnormal handling] If the O-RU fails to activate the edited beamforming configuration file correctly, i.e. rpc error for rpc activate-beamforming-config-by-capability-group, the O-RU shall revert back to the pre-defined/factory beamforming configuration file and report this to the NETCONF client. At the reset rpc, the beamforming configuration information is switched to the pre-defined beamforming configuration. Even though the reset operation is issued, the O-RU may store the modified beamforming configuration file in the folder, which is not used, if O-RU supports the capability persistent-bf-files to store them in the reset-persistent memory. The file format of the beamforming configuration is O-RU implementation specific. Figures 15.4.3-1 and 15.4.3-2 show two methods to successfully modify the file of beamforming configuration information plus the method how to apply the modified file for beamforming configuration conformation to use.

### 15.4.4 Tilting pre-defined beams
This clause describes the optional capability by which the O-RU's pre-defined beams may be tilted by using the "BEAM-TILT" feature defined in the o-ran-beamforming YANG model. This capability is an O-RU specific functionality, enabling adaptation of the service area associated with an O-RU without the need for operation of additional ALDs described in clause 14, or modifying the beamforming configuration using the "MODIFY-BF- CONFIG" feature described in clause 15.4.3.
> NOTE 1: The operation of the feature "BEAM-TILT" is independent to the operation of the "MODIFY-BF-
CONFIG". When the "MODIFY-BF-CONFIG" feature is used to define a new default service area, the "BEAM-TILT" feature can be used to apply tilt-offsets to the newly defined service area. O-RU can change the service area by applying a tilt-offset to the elevation and/or azimuth pointing angles for the pre- defined beams. This feature allows to shift beam characteristic of all predefined-beams in elevation and/or azimuth direction (i.e. changing the service area or sector coverage) while preserving the beam adjacency among the beams within grid of beams.
> NOTE 2: elevation-tilt-offset-angle values smaller than 0 represents an up-shift of the default service area towards
the zenith (i.e. corresponding to a decrease in zenith angle) and values larger than 0 represent a down- shift of the default service area away from the zenith (i.e. corresponding to an increase in zenith angle). RU in a different direction, O-RU controller shall check whether the O-RU supports feature BEAM-TILT feature during capabilities negotiation of the NETCONF session. In the case that O-RU supports the BEAM-TILT feature, the O-RU shall ensure that at least one of the elevation-tilt-offset-granularity and azimuth-tilt-offset-granularity is greater than zero value from O-RU. Tilting is a per band operation and hence the parameters are defined per band. If O- RU supports BEAM-TILT feature, O-RU controller can configure the values of elevation-tilt-offset-angle and/or azimuth-tilt-offset-angle and the configuration values should meet the ranges and granularity information retrieved from predefined-beam-tilt-offset-information. Depending on O-RU's implementation, the O-RU may need some time to complete the change of service area according to the updated elevation-tilt-offset-angle and/or azimuth-tilt-offset-angle for a particular band-number. The O-RU shall report its capability via the parameter, run-time-tilt-offset-supported. For O-RU with run-time-tilt-offset- supported = FALSE, changing the values in elevation-tilt-offset-angle and/or azimuth-tilt-offset-angle for a specific band shall be allowed only if all tx-array-carriers/rx-array-carriers corresponding to the band is INACTIVE. When the service area change is completed in O-RU, the O-RU delivers the notification predefined-beam-tilt-offset- complete to inform the O-RU Controller which then may request to activate tx-array-carriers/rx-array-carriers in O- RU. For O-RU with run-time-tilt-offset-supported = TRUE, neither changing the state of tx-array-carriers/rx- array-carriers nor delivering notification predefined-beam-tilt-offset-complete is required.

### 15.4.5 Dynamic beamforming control option
As option, O-RU may support dynamic beamforming control mode. Support for this type of beamforming control can be recognized in the case of weights-based dynamic beamforming from value of parameter rt-bf-weights-update-support (TRUE), and in the case of attributes-based dynamic beamforming from the value of parameter beamforming-trough- attributes-supported (TRUE), in o-ran-beamforming.yang module In dynamic beamforming control mode DU updates content of lookup table in O-RU using eCPRI C-Plane messages. For details of eCPRI messaging, see ORAN-WG4.CUS specification, clause "Scheduling and Beamforming Commands". Dynamically updated content of lookup table is further addressed by DU in the same way as it is done for static beamforming - by requesting particular Beam ID to be applied. In case dynamic beamforming control is supported, O-RU indicates following supplementary information using parent leaf "static-properties" in o-ran-beamforming.yang module:
- beamforming type (frequency domain, time domain, hybrid).
- beamforming weight compression format (optional).
- available range of Beam IDs, that can be dynamically updated by DU.
- supported time and frequency granularity for time domain and hybrid beamforming control.
> NOTE: Neighbourhood relations between beams produced by beam IDs controlled by DU are unknown to O-RU,
hence are not exposed. In the case of weights-based dynamic beamforming, to properly calculate beamforming weights DU needs to know antenna array geometry. This information DU obtains by reading the content of o-ran-uplane-conf.yang (list of tx-arrays and rx-arrays with their child parameters). Details of beamforming weight calculations are not a subject for M-Plane activity and as such are intentionally not covered in the present document.

### 15.4.6 Multiple beamId tables support
The O-RU may choose to support multiple beamId tables instead of supporting a single global beamId table in the O- RU by advertising O-RU support for M-Plane feature MULTIPLE-BEAMID-TABLES-SUPPORTED. The O-DU may choose to enable or disable this feature using the O-DU configurable flag multiple-beamId-tables-support- enabled.

#### 15.4.6.1 O-RU advertised parameters and restrictions
1) The maximum number of beamId tables which can be supported by the O-RU is advertised by the O-RU using the parameter max-beamId-tables-supported within ru-capabilities.
> NOTE: If max-beamId-tables-supported is advertised as 1, it implies that O-RU supports single global beamId
table. 2) Each beamId table is identified by a unique beamId table index. Multiple beamId tables supported by the O- RU are expected to be linearly indexed from 1 to 255. The list of beamId tables supported are advertised by the O-RU using a leaf-list tx-array-beamId-table-indexes/rx-array-beamId-table-indexes per capabilities[] list entry per tx-array and per rx-array respectively. 3) The maximum number of entries advertised by the O-RU in the leaf-list tx-array-beamId-table-indexes/rx- array-beamId-table-indexes shall be restricted by the O-RU level parameter max-beamId-tables-supported advertised by the O-RU which is a global value for the entire O-RU.

#### 15.4.6.2 O-DU configuration and restrictions
1) When O-DU configures tx-array-carrier and/or rx-array-carrier, O-DU shall associate configured-tx-beamId- table-index/configured-rx-beamId-table-index with each tx-array-carrier and/or rx-array-carrier respectively. 2) The O-DU configured [tr]x-array-carrier(s) are expected to be configured based on parameters specified in capabilities[] list and hence configured-[tr]x-beamId-table-index value used for a given [tr]x-array-carrier is expected to be chosen from leaf-list [tr]x-array-beamId-table-indexes advertised by the O-RU per tx- array/rx-array.

#### 15.4.6.3 Restrictions, assumptions, and other impacts
1) To ensure that legacy single beamId table is also supported by the O-RU after O-DU enables the feature MULTIPLE-BEAMID-TABLES-SUPPORTED, the first list entry in tx-array-beamId-table-indexes/rx- array-beamId-table-indexes shall always point to default global beamId table which shall be of size 32767. 2) O-RU shall use the beamId table configured for the array carrier associated with the endpoint receiving the beamId value in a C-plane message. 3) Per beamforming method beamId range is defined separately per beamId table. The new ranges are defined in defined in o-ran-beamforming.yang as a leaf-list parameter beamforming-params-for-mul-beamId-tables advertised by the O-RU. The range values initial-beam-id and max-number-of-beam-ids defined for each beamforming type shall be same for each beamId table supported by the O-RU. Since the first list entry points to the global beamId table, the first entry in beamforming-params-for-mul-beamId-tables shall contain ranges for the global beamId table.

## 15.5 Antenna calibration

### 15.5.1 Background
Some antennas need to be calibrated to ensure their intended performance. Antenna calibration operation is an optional capability whose operation is dependent on O-RU design, i.e. different O-RUs may support different types of calibration, periodic vs on-demand, different calibration duration, short/medium/long, etc. In this clause, a common framework is defined which can accommodate various types of antenna calibration implementations. In this framework, the NETCONF client (O-DU) retrieves resource requirements for antenna calibration operation, e.g. timing and number of iterations/steps, from O-RU by getting the antenna-calibration-capabilities container defined in the o-ran-antenna-calibration YANG model. The O-DU can subscribe to antenna-calibration-required notifications to receive indications from the O-RU that calibration is required. When the O-RU indicates antenna calibration is required, or when the NETCONF Client decides to calibrate the O-RU, the NETCONF Client allocates time resources for antenna calibration and configures them in the O-RU using the start-antenna-calibration RPC request. The NETCONF client shall allocate the time resources for the calibration operation ensuring that these meet the minimum time necessary as reported by the O-RU using the antenna-calibration-capabilities. When available, the NETCONF client (O-DU) shall ensure that the frequency resources indicated in the dl-calibration-frequency-chunk and ul- calibration-frequency-chunk lists in the antenna-calibration-required notification are reserved for calibration operation, otherwise the NETCONF client shall consider that the full bandwidth of the carrier is being reserved for calibration operation. The O-RU shall perform antenna calibration operation using the time resources allocated in the start-antenna- calibration RPC and frequency resources declared in antenna-calibration-required notification and shall notify the completion of the antenna calibration operation to the notification subscriber. The O-DU should be configured to not schedule user data using the time frequency resources identified for antenna calibration operation. The O-DU may schedule data during calibration operation using time frequency resources not identified for calibration operation. When the O-DU is scheduling user data during calibration process using resources not used for calibration, it shall only schedule DL user data in DL calibration symbols and UL user data in UL calibration symbols.

### 15.5.2 Overall operation

#### 15.5.2.1 General
During the O-RU "start-up" procedure, the NETCONF client (O-DU) retrieves the O-RU's antenna calibration capability information including antenna calibration capability related parameters defined in o-ran-antenna- calibration.yang model. These parameters describe the O-RU's time resource requirements for calibration and the O- RU's capability of performing "self-calibration". The O-RU time resource requirements are described using the parameters number-of-calibration-symbols-per-block-dl and number-of-calibration-symbols-per-block-ul. One symbol block corresponds to a set of consecutive symbols in time required for the calibration operation, and it is the basic time unit of calibration. Sets of symbol blocks are grouped into one calibration step and the O-RU shall indicate how many symbol blocks constitute one calibration step using the number-of-calibration-blocks-per-step-dl and number-of-calibration-blocks-per-step-ul parameters. The O-RU indicates these parameters separately for downlink and uplink calibration. The O-RU shall also indicate the minimum time gap required between consecutive symbol block allocations (interval-between-calibration-blocks), number of calibration steps needed (number-of-calibration-steps) and the minimum required time gap between consecutive calibration step allocations (interval-between-calibration- steps). Based on these parameters, the O-DU shall be able to allocate the time resources required for antenna calibration operation meeting the necessary time resources indicated by the O-RU. If the O-RU supports mixed numerology, the highest possible numerology supported by the O-RU shall be used as the common reference per component carrier according to the CUS plane definition for slot indexing with mixed numerologies.

#### 15.5.2.2 Initiation
Either the O-RU or O-DU may initiate calibration operation. The trigger condition for the O-DU and/or O-RU to initiate calibration is out of scope of the present document. The NETCONF client is assumed to have subscribed to the notifications defined in the o-ran-antenna-calibration YANG model. When an O-RU determines that it needs to perform antenna calibration operation, it notifies the notification subscriber using the notification antenna-calibration- required, including a list of frequency ranges corresponding to the minimum frequency resources required for calibration, or, when the O-RU supports the optional O-RU-COORDINATED-ANT-CAL feature, by using the antenna-calibration-coordinated notification. Upon reception of the antenna-calibration-required notification, the O-DU can allocate time frequency resources for calibration and can send the start-antenna-calibration RPC request, including the time resource allocation information for the antenna calibration. This operation is referred as 'O-RU initiated antenna calibration' operation. When coordinated-calibration-support is set to true, this indicates that the O-RU is able to determine a priori the time-frequency resources required for antenna self-calibration and the O-RU uses antenna-calibration-coordinated notification to indicate these to the O-DU instead of antenna-calibration-required notification. When the coordinated- calibration is supported and permitted, i.e. coordinated-calibration-support is true and coordinated-calibration- allowed is true, the O-RU may perform a coordinated self-calibration procedure. An O-RU may also report the optional capability of configured-preparation-timer-supported which indicates that it supports configuration of the preparedness timer that controls how far in advance of the coordinated self-calibration procedure the O-RU is required to send the notification of impacted resources. If configured by the NETCONF Client, the O-RU shall send the antenna- calibration-coordinated notification at least coordinated-ant-calib-prep-timer seconds before the operation of the coordinated antenna calibration procedure. If such an optional capability is not supported, the O-RU shall indicate that time-frequency resources are sent to a subscribed O-DU at least 60 seconds before the operation of the coordinated antenna calibration procedure. SFN wrap around will occur multiple times during these 60 seconds, this is handled according to statements in clause 15.5.2.4. The O-DU shall not send a start-antenna-calibration RPC request when a coordinated antenna calibration period is in progress. The O-RU is allowed to reject such a request if it is received during a coordinated antenna calibration period. An O-DU receiving an antenna-calibration-coordinated notification can beneficially use the indicated time-frequency resources to adapt its operation during the antenna calibration operation, e.g. consider the time-frequency resources as reserved for calibration. If no UL and/or DL frequency-chunk lists are provided in the notification, the O-DU may consider the full bandwidth of all configured UL and/or DL carriers reserved for calibration operation. If such U-Plane resources are scheduled by the O-DU, the operation of the O-RU may be degraded, including performance of the calibration procedure and handling of DL and UL U-plane traffic and any associated performance counters. The O-DU may also autonomously initiate calibration operation, using the same start-antenna-calibration RPC request, i.e. without receiving the antenna-calibration-required notification message from O-RU. This operation is referred as 'O-DU initiated antenna calibration' operation. If the O-RU has indicated the need for the calibration through sending the antenna-calibration-required notification, the O-DU shall consider that the use of frequency resources indicated using frequency range list within the notification as being affected during the calibration operation and if no frequency list is available, consider the full bandwidth of all configured carriers reserved is affected during calibration. After receiving "start-antenna-calibration RPC request" (antenna calibration start command), the O-RU shall send an RPC reply (antenna calibration start response) including ACCEPTED status to the NETCONF client, if the O-RU is able to start the calibration operation according to the time resources allocation information in the RPC request. Otherwise, the O-RU shall include a REJECTED status in the RPC reply, with a suitable error reason such as "resource mask mismatch with O-RU antenna calibration capability", "overlapped DL and UL masks", "insufficient memory", "O-RU internal reason" (if no other error reason matches the error condition) etc. If the O-RU does not receive a start- antenna-calibration RPC request within 60 seconds after triggering the sending of the first antenna-calibration- required notification, the O-RU shall raise a major alarm "Triggering failure of antenna calibration" (see clause A for fault details). After the alarm is raised, the O-RU may resend the antenna-calibration-required notification multiple times. The O-RU shall not re-send the antenna-calibration-required notification in periods shorter than 60 seconds.

#### 15.5.2.3 Self-calibration operation
When the alarm "triggering failure of antenna calibration" alarm remains uncancelled, if self-calibration is supported and permitted, i.e. self-calibration-support is true and self-calibration-allowed is true, the O-RU may perform a self- calibration procedure. The O-RU shall wait a minimum 60 seconds after raising a major alarm and receiving no start- antenna-calibration RPC request from the NETCONF client before initiating its self-calibrate procedure. When self- calibration is not supported or not permitted, i.e. self-calibration-support is false or self-calibration-allowed is false, the O-RU may upgrade the severity of the alarm to critical according to clause 11.4. During the self-calibration, i.e. when O-RU exposes self-calibration-support with value TRUE and when O-DU sets self-calibration-allowed with value TRUE to O-RU, there could be no coordination of time-frequency resources between the O-RU and O-DU. The O-DU can continue to schedule user data during calibration process using the resources identified in antenna-calibration-required notification without impacting the operation of the calibration procedure. Scheduled user data will be affected by ongoing calibration procedure.

#### 15.5.2.4 Calibration completion
The O-RU shall indicate completion of all types of calibration procedures (i.e. rpc triggered, self-calibration and co- ordinated self-calibration) using the antenna-calibration-result notification (Calibration results) to the notification subscriber. If a self-calibration or co-ordinated self-calibration procedure completes but with status set to FAILURE, the O-RU may upgrade the severity of the alarm to critical. In some situations, SFN wrap around may happen causing O-DU and O-RU to interpret the 'start-sfn' parameter to point to different GPS seconds elapsed since GPS epoch. To avoid this situation, the O-DU to may decide not to schedule any user-plane data on the calibration time-frequency resources in all SFN cycles until the O-DU receives an antenna- calibration-result notification message from the O-RU. Once the calibration is complete, the O-DU schedules user data and sends C/U-Plane message as in normal operation state.

#### 15.5.2.5 Antenna calibration procedure

### 15.5.3 O-RU antenna calibration capability parameter configuration
The antenna calibration framework is a generic framework designed to support various vendor specific implementations of O-RU calibration. Therefore, the framework does not describe the details of how the O-RU calibrates its antenna, rather it defines a generic framework with necessary message flows and parameters for ensuring that the time and frequency resources required for calibration are coordinated between the O-DU and O-RU. The following parameters describe the O-RU's time resource needed for calibration.
- self-calibration-support: Boolean value indicates whether O-RU is capable of supporting self-calibration.
- number-of-calibration-symbols-per-block-dl: indicates how many consecutive symbols are required for DL
antenna calibration operation, i.e. the size of DL Symbol-block.
- number-of-calibration-symbols-per-block-ul: indicates how many consecutive symbols are required for UL
antenna calibration operation, i.e. the size of UL Symbol-block.
- interval-between-calibration-blocks: if a time interval is required between consecutive antenna calibration
operation, this indicates the required time value as unit of symbols. A common value is used here for the intervals between DL-DL blocks, UL-UL blocks, DL-UL blocks and UL-DL blocks, which is the largest minimum interval required between any two adjacent calibration blocks. It shall be any value that O-RU implementation requires within this parameter range.
- number-of-calibration-blocks-per-step-dl: indicates how many blocks are required for one step of DL
antenna calibration operation.
- number-of-calibration-blocks-per-step-ul: indicates how many blocks are required for one step of UL
antenna calibration operation.
- interval-between-calibration-steps: if a time interval is required between consecutive steps of antenna
calibration operation, define indicates the required time value as unit of radio frames. It can be any value that the O-RU implementation requires within the defined parameter range.
- number-of-calibration-steps: shows how many steps is required for whole DL/UL antenna calibration
operation. start-SFN Symbol Block Symbol Block Interval #1 Start of First Symbol block within the first calibration slot (need not be slot#0) within the Calib Start SFN Calibration Step #1 Symbol Block Symbol Block interval ….. #2 Symb Blk Interval is the minimum time b/n two symb blocks, it is not mandatory that O-DU allocate next symbol block right after the end of the Symb Blk Interval. But the Symbol pattern is expected to be same across all the calibration slots Symbol Block #m Symbol Block interval One Calibration Duration Calibrati on Step Calibration Step #2, … Interval #n-1 End of the radio End of the last radio frame containing last frame of cal step symbol block within the cal step Sym bol Block #1 Sym bol Block interval ….. Calibration Step #n Sym bol Block #m Sym bol Block interval Calibration Step Interval 15.5.4 antenna-calibration-required notification parameters If the O-RU initiates the calibration operation, the O-RU notifies the notification subscriber (O-DU) using the antenna- calibration-required notification message, including the O-RU's frequency resource requirements. The O-RU is able to indicate non-contiguous frequency "chunks" necessary for calibration using the dl-calibration-frequency-chunk and ul-calibration-frequency-chunk lists. These lists use the parameters below to describe the frequency resources required for calibration:
- start-calibration-frequency-dl: indicates the lowest frequency value in Hz of the frequency range is required
for DL antenna calibration operation.
- end-calibration-frequency-dl: indicates the highest frequency value in Hz of the frequency range is required
for DL antenna calibration operation.
- start-calibration-frequency-ul: indicates the lowest frequency value in Hz of the frequency range is required
for UL antenna calibration operation.
- end-calibration-frequency-ul: indicates the highest frequency value in Hz of the frequency range is required
for UL antenna calibration operation.

### 15.5.5 Start-antenna-calibration RPC request parameters
The NETCONF Client sends the "start-antenna-calibration RPC request" including the time resource allocation parameters. These parameters indicate the exact symbols, slots, and frames that can be used for calibration.
> NOTE: Because the NETCONF Client (O-DU) allocates the time resources for calibration with the knowledge of
UL and DL configuration, dynamic TDD operation is implicitly supported. The resource allocation information about symbol, slot, and frame are indicated using bitmasks for downlink and uplink calibration separately. The start SFN of the first calibration step is sent to the O-RU to synchronise the calibration starting point at both O-DU and O-RU. When indicated, the O-RU shall use the frequency resources indicated using the frequency ranges in the "NETCONF antenna-calibration-required notification" message for calibration. Parameters Type / Range Descriptions symbol-bitmask-dl string Bitmask indicating DL calibration symbol within a calibration slot. First character in the string indicates first symbol, next character in the string indicates second symbol and so on. Value 1 indicates that the symbol is allocated for calibration and 0 means the symbol shall not be used for calibration. symbol-bitmask-ul string Bitmask indicating UL calibration symbol within a calibration slot. First character in the string indicates first symbol, next character in the string indicates second symbol and so on. Value 1 indicates that the symbol is allocated for calibration and 0 means the symbol shall not be used for calibration. slot-bitmask-dl string Bitmask indicating DL calibration slot within a calibration frame. First character in the string indicates first slot, next character in the string indicates second slot and so on. Value 1 indicates that the slot is allocated for calibration and 0 means the slot shall not be used for calibration. slot-bitmask-ul string Bitmask indicating UL calibration slot within a calibration frame. First character in the string indicates first slot, next character in the string indicates second slot and so on. Value 1 indicates that the slot is allocated for calibration and 0 means the slot shall not be used for calibration. frame-bitmask-dl string Bitmask indicating DL calibration frame within a calibration step. First character in the string indicates first radio frame equal to the start-SFN, next character in the string indicates the next frame and so on. Value 1 indicates that the frame is allocated for calibration and 0 means the frame shall not be used for calibration. frame-bitmask-ul string Bitmask indicating UL calibration frame within a calibration step. First character in the string indicates first radio frame equal to the start-SFN, next character in the string indicates the next frame and so on. Value 1 indicates that the frame is allocated for calibration and 0 means the frame shall not be used for calibration. calibration-step-size uint8 Number of frames within a calibration step. calibration-step-number uint8 Number of calibration steps. start-sfn unt16 SFN number of the first calibration step.

### 15.5.6 Example antenna calibration operation
This clause illustrates an example of antenna calibration operation. For simplicity, the O-RU is the initiator in this example, but either O-RU or O-DU could initiate antenna calibration operation. In this example, the TDD configuration is assumed as shown in Figure 15.5.6-1. DL = Downlink slot

# F = Flexible slot
This example illustrates calibration operation where an O-RU requires DL and UL antenna calibration operation in o- ran-antenna-calibration.yang with 2 calibration steps; within each step, 64 DL calibration blocks with 4 continuous DL symbols in each calibration block and 32 UL calibration blocks with 1 continuous UL symbol in each calibration block are required. Between each calibration block, a length of minimum 3 symbols interval is required, and a length of minimum 5 frames interval is required between consecutive calibration steps. Once antenna calibration operation is required by the O-RU, an antenna-calibration-required notification is sent to the notification subscriber (O-DU), including the O-RU's frequency resources requirement in a list of frequency ranges in Hz, which in this example uses a single chunk of frequencies from 1.8GHz to 1.82GHz. The O-DU considers that the frequency range indicated in the antenna-calibration-required notification will be subsequently used during antenna calibration. The O-DU allocates time resources for antenna calibration based on the TDD configuration together with the O-RU DL and UL antenna calibration capability, then configure the antenna calibration using the start-antenna- calibration RPC request. In this example, 64 DL calibration blocks in each calibration step are allocated in 4 frames, within each frame, 8 DL slots are allocated and within each DL slot, 2 calibration blocks are allocated for DL calibration. In parallel, 32 UL calibration blocks in each calibration step are allocated in 4 frames, within each frame, 4 UL slots are allocated and within each UL slot, 2 calibration blocks are allocated for UL calibration. To guarantee the interval between 2 calibration steps, the size of each calibration step is set to 10 frames. At least 3 symbols interval between each calibration block is also guaranteed in symbol bitmasks. The O-DU may allocate larger intervals than O- RU requires as shown in this example where a 9 symbols interval is allocated instead of the minimum of 3 symbols after second UL symbol block in all UL calibration slots.

### 15.5.7 Calibration with multiple timing resource sets
The O-RU may indicate its ability to support multiple time resource configuration sets for antenna calibration by support of the feature O-RU-COORDINATED-ANT-CAL-MULTIPLE-TIME-RESOURCE in o-ran-antenna- calibration.yang module. The feature is intended to extend the antenna calibration framework to support multiple time resources instead of single time resource supported. This capability can be used by the O-RU to specify unique calibration time resources for different calibration types. O-RU which supports this capability, exposes a list of time resources (antenna-calibration-multiple-time-resource-list). O-RU indicates desired set of time resources in 'antenna- calibration-multiple-time-resource' notification using specific value of 'antenna-calibration-time-resource-index' parameter. This feature applies to O-RU initiated calibration where O-RU supporting this feature can use new notification 'antenna- calibration-multiple-time-resource' containing the parameter 'antenna-calibration-time-resource-index', defined in clause 15.5.8. Based on the index value in the notification respective antenna calibration time resource values should apply while initiating "start-antenna-calibration RPC request". O-RU can use this calibration feature only in case O-DU configured parameter 'coordinated-calibration-multiple-time-resources-allowed' is set to TRUE.
> NOTE: At any point in time only one calibration timing resources should be indicated the O-RU.
15.5.8 antenna-calibration-multiple-time-resource-params notification parameters If the O-RU supports O-RU-COORDINATED-ANT-CAL-MUL-TIMING-RES-CONFIG, to initiate the calibration operation, the O-RU notifies the notification subscriber (O-DU) using the antenna-calibration-multiple-time- resource-params notification message. Remaining parameter list of this notification includes the frequency resources required for calibration same as 'antenna-calibration-required' described in clause 15.5.3:
- antenna-calibration-time-resource-index: key value to index the list 'antenna-calibration-multiple-time-
resource-list' based on the calibration duration required by the O-RU.

## 15.6 Static configuration for PRACH and SRS

### 15.6.1 Background
PRACH and raw SRS are periodic. Their location in time and frequency resources is constant for all periods. This makes it feasible to configure PRACH and raw SRS with M-Plane in a sense that handling PRACH and / or raw SRS processing by assigned low-level-rx-endpoints does not require real-time control through C-Plane messages. Static configuration of PRACH and SRS with M-Plane needs to cover following aspects:
- Configuration of frequency resources assigned to PRACH / SRS
- Configuration of time resources assigned to PRACH / SRS (including PRACH / SRS periodicity)
- Configuration of compression, iFFT and SCS
- Assignment of HW resources (low-level-rx-endpoints) for processing of PRACH / SRS
Static configurations shall be provided to the O-RU as part of carrier configuration - before the configured carrier is activated. Static PRACH / SRS configuration provided for already active carrier shall be rejected by the O-RU.
> NOTE: In case a static-low-level-rx-endpoint exposes parameter static-config-supported with value NONE -
such endpoint does not offer support for static configuration of PRACH nor SRS reception. In case the configuration provided to O-RU contains records for TDD pattern(s), PRACH patterns and/or SRS patterns, the O-RU validates consistency between patterns. Configuration where there is collision between patterns detected, shall be rejected by the O-RU.

### 15.6.2 Static configuration for PRACH processing
The O-RU exposes its ability to support static PRACH configuration by support of the feature PRACH-STATIC- CONFIGURATION-SUPPORTED in o-ran-module-cap.yang module. Presence of this feature means, that at least one of static-low-level-rx-endpoints offered by the O-RU supports static configuration for PRACH. From the model perspective, static PRACH configuration is supported by static-low-level-rx-endpoints having the parameter static- config-supported exposed as PRACH. Such static-low-level-rx-endpoint can be referenced by low-level-rx-endpoint designated for reception of PRACH. Specific PRACH configuration may be utilized by the low-level-rx-endpoint according to the optional parameter static-prach-configuration.
> NOTE: A single low-level-rx-endpoint can only reference to single instance of static-prach-configuration.
However, a single static-prach-configuration may be referenced by many low-level-rx-endpoints. If parameters related to static PRACH configuration are set by NETCONF Client – real-time C-Plane control for PRACH opportunities shall not be provided to the O-RU, allowing for static configuration to be utilized.

### 15.6.3 Frequency domain configuration
The meaning of frequency-related parameters is illustrated using Figure 15.6.3-1.
> NOTE: Parameter offset-to-absolute-frequency-center belongs to low-level-rx-endpoint.

# P R A C H R E s

# P R A C H g u a rd to n
O th e r R E s

# R B # 0
re -o ffs e o ffs e t-to -a b s o lu te e R t -fre E q s u ... e n c y -c e n te r

# R B # 9 6
g u a rd -to

# F R E F
n e s ta -lo w rtP rb -re c

# R B # 9 7
n n u u m m P -p rb ra c c h R -re

# B # 9 8
g u a rd R -to n B e # -h

# 9 9
ig h -re fre q u e n c y Relations between parameters allow to calculate startPrbc and numPrbc. For details of startPrbc and numPrbc, see O- RAN Fronthaul Working Group; Control, User and Synchronisation Plane Specification [2], clause 7.5.3.2.

### 15.6.4 Time domain configuration
Meaning of parameters is illustrated using Figure 15.6.4-1. fn = 0 tim e - o ffs e t c p P
- le

# R A C
n CP g th H s P y R m A b C o l- H d u S n r a y m u m tio b b n o l e r - o f- r e p e titio s y

# P R
n m A s b C o l- H d u S r y a m tio n b o l g p P
- le

# R A G
n CP g th H tim e shown on figure for single PRACH occasion for simplified view). The corresponding parameters for Figure 15.6.4-2 are: ("number-of-prach-occasions" = 2, "number-of-repetitions" = 2)
> NOTE 1: time-offset is defined with reference to parameters frame-number and sub-frame-id under static-
prach-configuration. This parameter applies for the first occasion of a PRACH pattern. For subsequent occasions of the same PRACH pattern, the O-RU utilizes the parameters cp-length, gp-length and beam- id to determine the time boundaries. The parameters are taken from the list occasion-parameters such that, the first occasion uses the first set of elements from the list. Subsequent occasions use consecutive sets of parameters. The number of sets of parameters in this list is equal to value of the parameter number-of-occasions. One static-prach-configuration instance allows to configure a set of PRACH patterns. For a single PRACH configuration, all corresponding PRACH patterns repeat over the period defined by the pattern-period parameter for such PRACH configuration. The PRACH patterns of single PRACH configuration shall not overlap in terms of time and frequency. At most one PRACH pattern shall start in a subframe (subframes in different frames are distinguished). PRACH pattern shall not cross boundary between subframes except PRACH pattern for long PRACH format with one occasion that spans boundary between subframes. An O-RU shall reject any configuration where the number of patterns in single static PRACH configuration exceeds the number exposed by capability parameter max-prach-patterns in o-ran-uplane-conf.yang module. sub-fram e x F ra m e # 0 F ra m e # 1 beam -id #1 beam -id #1 beam -id #1 beam -id #1 beam -id #2 sym 0 sym 1 sym 2 sym 3 sym 0 C P 1 G P C P 2 tim e-offset #1 sub-fram e y F ra m e # 5 F ra m e # 6 beam -id #4 beam -id #4 beam -id #4 beam -id #4 beam -id #4 beam -id #4 sym 0 sym 1 sym 2 sym 3 sym 4 sym 5 C P 1 tim e-offset #2 F ra m e # 1 0 F ra m e # 1 1 beam -id #1 beam -id #1 beam -id #1 beam -id #1 beam -id #2 sym 0 sym 1 sym 2 sym 3 sym 0 C P 1 G P C P 2 prach-occasion F ra m e # 1 5 F ra m e # 1 6 beam -id #4 beam -id #4 beam -id #4 beam -id #4 beam -id #4 beam -id #4 sym 0 sym 1 sym 2 sym 3 sym 4 sym 5 C P 1 F ra m e # 2 F ra m e # 3 beam -id #2 beam -id #2 beam -id #2 beam -id #3 beam -id #3 beam -id #3 beam -id #3 sym 1 sym 2 sym 3 sym 0 sym 1 sym 2 sym 3 G P C P 3 prach-pattern #1 F ra m e # 7 F ra m e # 8 beam -id #5 beam -id #5 beam -id #5 beam -id #5 beam -id #5 beam -id #5 sym 0 sym 1 sym 2 sym 3 sym 4 sym 5 G P C P 2 G P prach-pattern #2 F ra m e # 1 2 F ra m e # 1 3 beam -id #2 beam -id #2 beam -id #2 beam -id #3 beam -id #3 beam -id #3 beam -id #3 sym 1 sym 2 sym 3 sym 0 sym 1 sym 2 sym 3 G P C P 3 F ra m e # 1 7 F ra m e # 1 8 beam -id #5 beam -id #5 beam -id #5 beam -id #5 beam -id #5 beam -id #5 sym 0 sym 1 sym 2 sym 3 sym 4 sym 5 G P C P 2 G P G G P P F ra m F ra m F ra m F ra m e # 4 e # 9 e # 1 4 e # 1 9 number of PRACH Symbols
> NOTE 2: PRACH occasions are expanded for visual clarity.
> NOTE 3: Figure 15.6.4-3 shows a theoretical configuration – not necessarily standardised by 3GPP. This is to
demonstrate the flexibility of the solution of static PRACH configuration offered by M-Plane configuration. The above configuration uses 2 prach-patterns:
- Pattern #1 is having: number-of-repetitions = 4, number-of-occasions = 3
- Pattern #2 is having: number-of-repetitions = 6, number-of-occasions = 2
For the PRACH configuration shown in Figure 15.6.4-3, the parameter pattern-period = 10 as this is the number of frames after which PRACH pattern repeats.
> NOTE 4: Such a static PRACH configuration can be supported by static-low-level-rx-endpoints having parameter
max-prach-patterns ≥ 2 as this configuration consists of 2 patterns.

### 15.6.5 Operation
Static PRACH configuration shall be set and rx-endpoints shall be linked to it before rx-array-carrier activation. On carrier activation, the O-RU starts receiving RF signals corresponding to the configured prach-patterns list. Specifically, the O-RU receives RF signals corresponding to the prach-pattern p when: mod( 𝑛 , pattern-period ) = frame-number and 𝑓 p 𝑛 = sub-frame-id and 𝑠𝑓 p t = time-offset p where: 𝑛 is the system frame number, 𝑓 mod( x, y ) is remainder of division of x by y, 𝑛 is the subframe number within system frame 𝑛 , 𝑠𝑓 𝑓 t is the time since start of subframe 𝑛 , 𝑠𝑓 frame-number, sub-frame-id and time-offset are parameters of prach-pattern p, p p pattern-period is a parameter of PRACH configuration. Offset to the start of pattern periods can be configured either in low-level-rx-endpoint or in static-prach-configuration with sfn-number parameter. If the value is provided in static-prach-configuration, then it takes the precedence over the value configured in low-level-rx-endpoint. Once the RF signal corresponding to the PRACH Symbol 𝑛 in PRACH occasion 𝑛 is received and processed, the O- 𝑟 𝑜 RU sends the corresponding IQ values in a U-plane message or messages with header fields set as follows: frameId = mod( floor( 𝑛 / pattern-period ) • pattern-period + frame-number , 256 ) 𝑓 p
> NOTE: This corresponds to 𝑛 value captured when prach-pattern p started)
𝑓 subframeId = sub-frame , p slotId = zero-based PRACH occasion number within PRACH pattern, symbolId = zero-based PRACH Symbol number within PRACH occasion, sectionId = 4095, startPrbu = floor( ( re-offset + guard-tone-low-re ) / 12 ), p numPrbu = ceil( (re-offset + guard-tone-low-re + num-prach-re ) / 12 ) - startPrbu. p Where: 𝑛 is the system frame number, 𝑓 mod( x, y ) is remainder of division of x by y, floor( x ) is largest integer smaller than or equal to x, ceil( x ) is smallest integer greater than or equal to x, frame-number , sub-frame-number and re-offset are parameters of prach-pattern p. p p p pattern-period, guard-tone-low-re and num-prach-re are parameters of PRACH configuration. If data section is subdivided due to application level fragmentation, resulting values of startPrbu and numPrbu shall be calculated as per general rules. If multiple PRACH Symbols are scheduled at the same time at different re-offset frequencies, the O-RU shall send corresponding data sections in one U-Plane message following message size restrictions.

### 15.6.6 Static configuration for raw SRS processing
The O-RU exposes its ability to support static raw SRS configuration by support of the feature SRS-STATIC- CONFIGURATION-SUPPORTED in o-ran-module-cap.yang module. Presence of this feature means, that at least one of static-low-level-rx-endpoints offered by the O-RU supports static configuration for raw SRS reception. From the model perspective, static SRS configuration is supported by static-low-level-rx-endpoints having the parameter static- config-supported exposed as SRS. Such static-low-level-rx-endpoint can be referenced by a low-level-rx-endpoint designated for reception of SRS. Specific SRS configuration may be utilized by the low-level-rx-endpoint according to the optional parameter static-srs-configuration.
> NOTE: A single low-level-rx-endpoint can only reference to single instance of static-srs-configuration. However,
a single static-srs-configuration can be referenced by many low-level-rx-endpoints. If parameters related to static SRS configuration are set by NETCONF Client – real-time C-Plane control for SRS shall not be provided to the O-RU, allowing for static configuration to be utilized. Static SRS configuration is used to configure NDM (Non-Delay Managed) raw SRS (Sounding Reference Signal) patterns in a static manner, such that raw SRS U-Plane traffic can be processed by the O-RU without receiving C-Plane messages conveying real-time raw SRS configuration. Raw SRS may capture non-beamformed (beam-id = 0) or beamformed (beam-id != 0) signals and uses non-delay managed U-Plane messages. One static-srs-configuration instance allows to configure a set of SRS patterns. For a single SRS configuration, all SRS patterns repeat over the period defined by pattern-period parameter for such SRS configuration. SRS patterns corresponding to a single SRS configuration shall not overlap in terms of time and frequency. An O-RU shall reject any configuration where the number of patterns in single static SRS configuration exceeds the number exposed by capability parameter max-srs-patterns in o-ran-uplane-conf.yang module.

### 15.6.7 Operation
Static SRS configuration shall be set and rx-endpoints shall be linked to it before rx-array-carrier activation. On carrier activation, the O-RU starts receiving RF signals corresponding to the configured srs-patterns list. Specifically, the O- RU receives RF signal and sends corresponding U-plane messages as if, for each configured srs-pattern p, each rx- endpoint linked with the SRS configuration received C-plane messages with fields: dataDirection = 0 (RX), payloadVersion = 0, filterIndex = 0, frameId = mod( 𝑛 , 256 ), 𝑓 subframeId = sub-frame-id , p slotId = slot-id p, startSymbolId = start-symbol-id p, numberOfSections = 1, sectionId = 4095, rb = 0, symInc = 0, startPrbc = start-prbc , p numPrbc = num-prbc , p reMask = 0xFFF, numSymbol = num-symbol , p ef=0, beamId = beam-id p, where: 𝑛 is the system frame number, 𝑓 mod( x, y ) is remainder of division of x by y, sub-frame-id p slot-id p , start-symbol-id p , beam-id p , start-prbc p and num-prbc p are parameters of srs-pattern p.

## 15.7 TDD pattern configuration
The O-RU exposes its ability to support TDD pattern configuration by support of the feature CONFIGURABLE-TDD- PATTERN-SUPPORTED in o-ran-module-cap.yang module. Presence of this feature means, that at least one of static-low-level-[tr]x-endpoints offered by the O-RU supports configuration for TDD pattern, so that these static-low- level-[tr]x-endpoints can be used (through low-level-[tr]x-endpoints) by [tr]x-array-carriers having configurable TDD pattern assigned. Configured TDD pattern shall not be violated by C-Plane and U-Plane messages. In case configuration provided to O- RU contains records for TDD pattern(s), PRACH patterns and/or SRS patterns, O-RU validates consistency between patterns. Configuration where there is collision between patterns detected, shall be rejected by O-RU. From the model perspective, configuration for TDD pattern is supported by static-low-level-[tr]x-endpoints having parameter configurable-tdd-pattern exposed as TRUE. Such static-low-level-[tr]x-endpoint can be respectively referenced by low-level-[tr]x-endpoint designated to serve for [tr]x-array-carrier having preconfigured TDD pattern assigned. Specific configuration of the TDD pattern may be utilized by [tr]x-array-carrier according to the optional parameter configurable-tdd-pattern. Absence of leaf configurable-tdd-pattern at [tr]x-array-carrier means, that such [tr]x-array-carrier has no configurable-tdd-pattern assigned. A configurable TDD pattern can be assigned to a [tr]x-array-carrier under the condition, that all static-low-level-[tr]x- endpoints serving such an [tr]x-array-carrier expose value of capability configurable-tdd-pattern-supported as TRUE. A single [tr]x-array-carrier can only reference to single instance of configurable-tdd-pattern. Whereas a single configurable-tdd-pattern shall be referenced by all cooperating [tr]x-array-carriers serving for a specific [tr]x-array. Linkage between tx-array-carriers and rx-array-carriers configured to use the same configurable-tdd-pattern shall be assured by the entity responsible for configuration provisioning to O-RU. For example, ensuring that all cooperating [tr]x-array-carriers use static-low-level-[tr]x-endpoints (through low-level-[tr]x-endpoints) having the same value of tdd-group. The practical implication of this is that static-low-level-[tr]x-endpoints exposing the same value of parameter tdd-group shall be used by low-level-[tr]x-endpoints serving for [tr]x-array-carriers having the same TDD switching points and the same directions to the air interface granted by TDD patterns they are configured to use.
> NOTE 1: M-Plane model allows an O-RU to be configured with more than one TDD patterns. This is capability can
be used by O-RUs having more than one [tr]x-array. A single TDD pattern configuration consists of list of records. Each single record contains details for frame-offset and direction of signal that shall be applied at the moment a specific frame-offset occurs at air interface. Supported directions are UL (uplink), DL (downlink) and GP (neither uplink nor downlink).
> NOTE 2: Assignment of configurable-tdd-pattern to a [tr]x-array-carrier is only possible in case all following
conditionals are met: ▪ O-RU supports feature CONFIGURABLE-TDD-PATTERN-SUPPORTED. ▪ all static-low-level-[tr]x-endpoint configured to serve for a specific [tr]x-array-carrier have capability configurable-tdd-pattern set to TRUE.

## 15.8 C-Plane message limits
The O-RU exposes its ability to support C-Plane message limits by including support of the feature CPLANE- MESSAGE-PROCESSING-LIMITS in o-ran-wg4-features.yang module. Refer to clause 7.8.2.2 of CUS-Plane specification to understand details of this feature. The presence of this feature means, that in addition to an O-RU’s “per-endpoint processing limits” e.g. endpoint-section-capacity, endpoint-beam-capacity, endpoint-prb-capacity, an O- RU may also have “per-cplane message limits”. To support this feature on a per endpoint basis, a new flag ‘cplane- message-processing-limits-required’ is added to ‘endpoint-types’ to indicate an endpoint's requirement to support C- Plane message processing limits. The flag shall be set to true for the endpoints to which C-Plane message processing limits apply. An additional configuration flag 'cplane-message-processing-limits-enabled' is added to low-level-[tr]x- endpoints (applicable only for endpoints to which C-Plane limit requirement is exposed by O-RU) to enable the O-DU to use this feature on a per endpoint basis. 1) If the O-DU supports C-Plane message processing limits, it can choose to indicate it adheres to the limits by configuring schema node 'cplane-message-processing-limits-enabled= true'. In such case, the O-DU shall follow limits specified by the parameters, e.g. 'max-beams-per-slot-with-cplane-limits' and 'max-highest- priority-sections-per-slot-with-cplane-limits' when forming C-Plane messages. 2) If O-DU does not support C-Plane message processing limits by configuring schema node 'cplane-message- processing-limits-enabled= false' OR O-RU does not indicate it supports the CPLANE-MESSAGE- PROCESSING-LIMITS YANG feature, no C-Plane message limits shall apply and O-RU continues to use endpoint capacity limits specified in existing endpoint by per-endpoint limits e.g. endpoint-section-capacity, endpoint-beam-capacity, endpoint-prb-capacity.

## 15.9 Advanced endpoint capability report
Both endpoint-types and endpoint-capacity-sharing-groups provide an optional method for advanced endpoint capability and capacity reporting by using supported-configuration-combinations. The report is provided through supported-configuration-combinations which allows the O-RU to convey its supported configurations of endpoint UL/DL signal transmission/reception and processing as a function of different combinations. In short, the O-RU may report a different processing capacity dependent on a specified set of configurations. This clause describes the data structure of supported-configuration-combinations and provides examples of its usage. three-level list consisting of the levels: supported-configuration-combinations, set, config. The parameter supported-configuration-combinations will henceforth be referred to as combination for the sake of brevity. An entry of config provides a specific configuration with several parameters to represent the processing capacity of one or more internal components of the O-RU when these are configured to a certain state via endpoint mapping. The parameters carrier-types and center-from-freqoffset may be omitted to indicate that their value does not affect the O- RU's resource usage, i.e. a wildcard entry. An entry of set provides a list of one or more config entries. The value of max-overlapping-instances indicates the number of config entries which may be activated simultaneously in time, including multiple activations of the same config entry within a set. When max-overlapping-instances is 1 the O-DU can only utilize one config entry from the set. Simultaneously overlapping is defined by the DL or UL signals overlapping in time when transmitted or received by the O-RU at the antenna connector. The config entries are indirectly activated when the O-RU receives C-plane messages which can be processed by the capabilities reported in those entries.
> NOTE: When Section Type 3 C-plane messages are received the O-RU may rely on fields such as filterIndex,
timeOffset, frameStructure and freqOffset to map to internal processing resources. An entry of combination provides a list of one or more sets from which one or more config entries (dependent on the value of max-overlapping-instances of the specific set) may be activated at an overlapping moment in time. At any overlapping moment in time only a single combination entry shall be applied to the O-RU. I.e. config entries from different combination entries shall not be activated simultaneously. The combination entry which the O-DU intents to utilize shall be conveyed to the O-RU via combination-configuration as part of the general carrier configuration procedure. Optionally the O-DU may convey its intent to utilize a subset of sets and configs of the selected combination via the same parameter. If the list of configurations is not populated by the O-DU, the O-RU shall assume that the combination entry will be utilized to the greatest extent possible. In all cases the activation of a particular configuration is performed indirectly by a combination of M-plane configuration and received C-plane messages as they are mapped to the internal processing resources of the O-RU. In cases where conflicts arise between the capabilities of the endpoint conveyed via supported-configuration- combinations and other endpoint level capabilities it is the most restrictive capacity restriction option that shall apply. In other words, all applicable restrictions shall be met. Once the supported combinations are advertised by the O-RU, the O-DU is expected to comply with a given combination capability advertised by the O-RU. However, if the O-DU for any reason violates the O-RU advertised capabilities, the O-RU shall send an alarm notification, e.g. 'fault-id = 31' to subscribers following the procedures defined in clause 11 and Table A.1-1. c o m b s i n e a t [ m t ] i o a x c n
- o
o n [ v ] e r la p p in g - in s t a n c e s f i g [ ] s c s c a r r ie r - t y p e s f ilt e r - p a s s - b a n d w id t m a x - p r b - r a n g e c e n t e r - f r o m - f r e q o f f s s u p p o r t e d - f ilt e r - in d ic h ee ts The config listed parameter center-from-freqoffset indicates whether deriving a new carrier center from a C-plane section type 3 message (as defined in [2] clause 15.4.1) is expected to be enabled for the activate configuration. It shall be enabled via the endpoint level parameter center-from-freqoffset-enabled. If an endpoint supports this capability, it shall report so by setting center-from-freqoffset-supported to TRUE. The config listed parameter filter-pass-bandwidth conveys the maximum size of the passband filter relative to the host carrier center, as defined by center-of-channel-bandwidth, and therefore defines the frequency range from which PRBs can be extracted with the endpoint. In turn, the O-DU configures the expected occupied bandwidth to the O-RU via occupied-bandwidth, e.g. refer to [2] clause 15.4.1, 15.4.2 and 15.4.3. A list of supported filter pass bandwidths is provided in supported-filter-pass-bandwidths. The config leaf-list parameter supported-filter-indices conveys the filter indices supported or intended by the config. As an example, the O-RU may use the parameter to restrict an endpoint to only support NB-IoT or a specific NB-IoT channel such as NPUSCH. A static-low-level-rx-endpoint intended to support a NB-IoT carrier with an NPUSCH and two NPRACH channels may be conveyed in a single combination entry, as illustrated in Figure 15.9-2. c o m b s s i n e e a t t [ 0 c o t [ 1 c o i o ] n ] n n [ f ig f ig [ [ s ] m a x -..o

# 0 ]
s c s = 1 5 c a r rie r-ty p m a x -..o

# 0 ]
c s = 3 .7 5 c a r rie r-ty p v e v e e s e s r la m = lt r la m = lt p a e p a e ..= x -p ..= x -p r r b b -r -r a a n c n c g e g e e n e n = t = t e r e r -fr -fr o o m m filt -fr e filt -fr e e q e q r -..b o ff s r -..b o ff s a e a e n d w t = T R n d w t = T R id U id U th E th E O n e s e t -c o n fig is a n e n d p o in in s t a n c e o f c o n fig u ra tio n / c a p a c it y M u lt ip le in s ta n c e s m a y b e s u p p o r te d w ith m a x - o v e rla p p in g -in s t a n c e s M a x im u m a v a ila b le c o n f ig u r a t io n : s e t [ 0 ] c o n f ig [ 0 ] + s e t [ 1 ] c o n f ig [ 0 ] x 2 t support with one NPUSCH and two NPRACH channels A static-low-level-rx-endpoint may additionally support an LTE carrier and PRACH, however, not at the same time as an NB-IoT carrier. In which case, an additional combination entry may be listed to convey support for either NB-IoT or an LTE carrier as shown in Figure 15.9-3. c o m b in a tio n [0 ] se t[0 ] m ax-..overlap..=1 c o n fig [0 ] scs=15 m ax-prb-range=1 carrier-types=lte center-from se t[1 ] m ax-..overlap..=2 c o n fig [0 ] scs=3.75 m ax-prb-range=4 carrier-types=lte center-from Center-from -freq -offset set to TR U E im plies N B -IoT due to new indication of carrier center c o m b in a tio n [1 ] se t[0 ] m ax-..overlap..=1 c o n fig [0 ] filter-..bandw idth scs=15 m ax-prb-range=100 -freqoffset=TRU E carrier-types=lte center-from se t[1 ] m ax-..overlap..=1 c o n fig [0 ] filter-..bandw idth scs=1.25 m ax-prb-range=72 -freqoffset=TRU E carrier-types=lte center-from c o n fig [1 ] scs=7.5 m ax-prb-range=14 carrier-types=lte center-from M a xim u m a v a ila b le co n figu ra tio n : se t[0 ]co n fig [0 ] + se t[1 ]co n fig [0 ]x 2 O r th e a lte rn a tiv e co m b in a tio n : co m b [1 ]se t[0 ][co n fig [0 ]+ co m b [1 ]se t[1 ][co n fig [0 /1 ] filter-..bandw idth -freqoffset=FALSE filter-..bandw idth -freqoffset=FALSE filter-..bandw idth -freqoffset=FALSE carrier, however, not both at the same time Finally, an endpoint capability report may be structured to indicate a large degree of flexibility in terms of active configs as illustrated in combination-1 of Figure 15.9-4 which shows any three combinations of the listed configs may be utilized. Whereas combination-0 can only support a single instance of a 15 kHz channel. combination[0] combination[1] set[0] set[0] max-..overlap..=1 max-..overlap..=3 config[0] config[0] scs=15 max-prb-range=1 filter-..bandwidth scs=15 max-prb-range=1 filter-..bandwidth carrier-types=lte center-from-freqoffset=TRUE carrier-types=lte center-from-freqoffset=TRUE config[1] set[1] scs=3.75 max-prb-range=4 filter-..bandwidth max-..overlap..=2 carrier-types=lte center-from-freqoffset=FALSE config[0] scs=3.75 max-prb-range=4 filter-..bandwidth carrier-types=lte center-from-freqoffset=TRUE more flexibility in the right-hand side combination

## 15.10 U-Plane message limits
O-RU may indicate that its endpoints have U-Plane message processing limits, as specified in clause 8.5.1 of [2], by including feature UPLANE-MESSAGE-PROCESSING-LIMITS in o-ran-wg4-features.yang. The presence of this feature means, an O-RU may expose data node uplane-message-processing-limits-required per static-low-level-tx- endpoint via endpoint-types. uplane-message-processing-limits-required indicates whether an endpoint has U-Plane message processing limits or not. 1) If O-DU supports feature UPLANE-MESSAGE-PROCESSING-LIMITS and supports the leaf max- section-headers-per-uplane-message , it should set uplane-message-section-header-limit-enabled to 'true' and should comply with O-RU limit specified by the parameters max-section-headers-per-uplane- message when forming U-Plane messages. 2) When the O-DU does not configure the leaf uplane-message-section-header-limit-enabled to 'true', O-RU shall process the U-Plane messages that exceed the limits even though the O-RU may operate with degraded performance or capacity, (refer to [2] clause 8.5.1 for more details). 3) When U-Plane message exceeds the limit reported by O-RU, O-RU may raise alarm to indicate the degraded performance or capacity. For details about alarm notification 'fault-id = 31', refer to Table A.1-1.

## 15.11 DRMS-BF capability and configuration management

### 15.11.1 Overview
The DMRS based beamforming method is beamforming method where the O-RU computes beamforming or beamforming + equalization weights based on DMRS configuration from O-DU. The DMRS-BF feature comprises of new O-RU advertised feature capabilities, O-RU advertised limits and O-DU configurations which are described in detail in the following clauses.

### 15.11.2 O-RU advertised capabilities and capacity limits
To support the DMRS based beamforming feature O-RU advertises to the O-DU a set of capability parameters which are mandatory to be supported by the O-RU and few other are optional. To support DMRS-BF new section type, new section extensions and various new functionalities have been added to the fronthaul CUS-Plane specification, each sub- functionality requires the O-RU to advertise a set of capabilities and maximum capacity limits. Below table intends to summarize all the parameters advertised by the O-RU and there scope i.e. at what granularity the parameters are advertised by the O-RU. Refer to the Table C.2-1, feature numbers 67 to 77 and 81 for DMRS-BF related features in o- ran-wg4-features.yang. S.No (feature num.param O-RU advertised DMRS-BF Capability/Limit num) parameter name Scope of parameter 1.1 r rm-meas-supported Per endpoint-type 1.2 max-ipn-unalloc-reports-supported Per endpoint-type max-ipn-unalloc-symbols-supported

## 1.3 Per endpoint-type
1.4 max-ipn-alloc-reports-supported Per endpoint-type 1.5 alloc-ipn-per-dmrs-sym-grp-supported Per endpoint-type 2.1 equalization-data-scaling O-RU level 2.2 eq-scale-offset-min Per endpoint-type 2.3 eq-scale-offset-max Per endpoint-type 3.1 supported-symb-reorder-capability Per endpoint-type 3.2 max-num-symbol-reordering-pattern-per-slot Per endpoint-type 3.3 up-symbolId-type-supported Per endpoint-type ta3-min-2g Per non-default-ru-delay-profile 4.1 and ru-delay-profile ta3-max-2g Per non-default-ru-delay-profile 4.2 and ru-delay-profile 5.1 sinr-reporting-supported Per endpoint-type supported-sinr-resolutions sinr-max-data-layers,

## 5.2 Per endpoint-type
sinr-per-prb (listleaf), sinr-slot-mask (listleaf) 5.3 sinr-reference-level-min Per endpoint-type 5.4 sinr-reference-level-max Per endpoint-type Per endpoint-type 5.5 sinr-compression-method Per entry in supported-sinr- compression-methods sinr-bitwidth Per endpoint-type

## 5.6 Per entry in supported-sinr- compression-methods
sinr-block-size Per endpoint-type

## 5.7 Per entry in supported-sinr- compression-methods
6.1 supported-entry-types Per endpoint-type max-user-groups-per-slot Per endpoint-type, per group of 6.2 endpoints sharing a capacity max-entries-per-slot Per endpoint-type, per group of 6.3 endpoints sharing a capacity 6.4 max-dmrs-configs-per-user-group-incl-first-last-prb Per endpoint-type 6.5 max-dmrs-configs-per-user-group-excl-first-last-prb Per endpoint-type 6.6 dmrs-symbol-mask Per endpoint-type 6.7 max-dmrs-ant-port-number Per dmrs-symbol-mask 6.8 max-user-data-layers Per dmrs-symbol-mask 6.9 list of supported pairs of { low-papr-type and hopping-mode } Per endpoint-type list of supported pairs of { d-type, pusch-dmrs-muxing-

## 6.10 Per endpoint-type
supported } 6.11 different-transform-precoding-in-user-group-supported Per endpoint-type 6.12 different-cdm-without-data-in-user-group-supported Per endpoint-type 7.1 se-10-bgt-11b-supported Per endpoint-type 7.2 se10-member-candidate-list Per endpoint user-group-self-assembly-mode Per endpoint-type continuity-block-sizes-supported Per endpoint-type 10.1 ueid-max-layer-bits O-RU level 10.2 max-num-ues-supported O-RU level 10.3 max-num-ueids O-RU level simultaneous-sinr-and-dmrs-sending-supported Per endpoint-type 12.1 ue-time-partial-overlap-supported Per endpoint-type 12.2 ue-freq-partial-overlap-supported Per endpoint-type max-user-groups-per-ue-in-time Per endpoint-type

### 15.11.3 O-DU configurations of parameters
Following O-RU capability advertisement, the O-DU is required to configure a set of parameters with restrictions on the scope of configuration. Below table intends to summarize all the parameters configured by the O-DU to enable the sub- functionalities/features advertised by the O-RU. Along with the parameter list the table also captures the scope of configuration of all the parameters to be configured by the O-DU. S.No (feature num.param num) Configuration parameter Configuration Scope 1.1 rrm-meas-enabled Per endpoint 2.1 eq-scale-offset-config Per endpoint 2.2 eq-scale-offset-used Per endpoint 3.1 se26-usage-enabled Per endpoint 4.1 config-symb-reorder-method Per O-RU 4.2 config-symb-reorder-upSymbId-type Per O-RU 5.1 sinr-reporting-enabled Per endpoint 5.2 sinr-per-prb Per endpoint 5.3 sinr-slot-mask Per endpoint 5.4 sinr-reference-level-config Per endpoint 5.5 sinr-reference-level-used Per endpoint 5.6 sinr-compression-method Per endpoint 5.7 sinr-bitwidth Per endpoint 5.8 sinr-block-size Per endpoint user-group-mode Per rx-array-carrier 7.1 continuity-block-size-configured Per rx-array-carrier 8.1 ueid-layer-bits-configured Per O-RU 9.1 port-reduced-dmrs-data-sending-enabled Per rx-array-carrier 9.2 point-a-offset-to-absolute-frequency-center Per rx-array-carrier ueid-persistence-enabled Per O-RU bf-methods Per endpoint

### 15.11.4 DMRS-BF-EQ target value configuration
For DMRS-BF-EQ, there are two parameters, eq-scale-offset-config (see clause 8.1.3.4 in CUS-plane specification [2]) and sinr-reference-level-config (see clause 7.2.10 in CUS-plane specification [2]), that use the method of target value configuration and used-value retrieval described in clause 9.1.9. The O-DU configures a target value for each of the parameters eq-scale-offset-config and sinr-reference-level-config as part of endpoint creation or reconfiguration including these two parameters. It is important for the O-DU to know (with sufficiently high precision) the actual values used, but it is possible that the O-RU cannot implement the target values precisely. The O-RU will instead report and use the value it is able to support but close to the target value. To report the used-values, the O-RU sets the read-only parameters eq-scale-offset-used and sinr-reference-level-used to the values that the O-RU used. The O-DU can retrieve the used-values before carrier activation and will then be aware of the precise value (to the precision of the M-plane data formats for each used-value) used by the O-RU. Refer to clause 9.1.9 for procedure details.

## 15.12 Description of feature SE10-MEMBER-CANDIDATE-LIST
Support for the feature SE10-MEMBER-CANDIDATE-LIST enables the O-RU to explicitly advertise one or multiple entries in the list se10-member-candidate-[tr]x-lists. This list is advertised separately for TX endpoints and RX endpoints at the O-RU level. Each static-low-level-tx-endpoint and each static-low-level-rx-endpoint supporting Section Extension 10 points to one entry from the list se10-member-candidate-tx-lists/ se10-member-candidate-rx- lists using the parameter se10-member-candidate-list respectively. By virtue of an endpoint belonging to a given se10- member-candidate-[tr]x-list entry, the endpoints can be used as member eAxC_ID entry in the O-DU configured [tr]x-eaxc-id-group. Below tables explains the advertisement of shared list by the O-RU and association of shared list entry per endpoint. se10-member-candidate-rx- Member static-low-level-rx-endpoint of member-candidates list lists index static-low-level-rx-endpoint-1 static-low-level-rx-endpoint-2 static-low-level-rx-endpoint-3 static-low-level-rx-endpoint-4 (note) static-low-level-rx-endpoint-8 (note) static-low-level-rx-endpoint-3 static-low-level-rx-endpoint-5 static-low-level-rx-endpoint-6 static-low-level-rx-endpoint-7 static-low-level-rx-endpoint-8 (note) static-low-level-rx-endpoint-9
> NOTE: These endpoints may also be representative endpoints, See table 15.12-2
candidates list association O-RU advertised representative endpoint Associated se10-member-candidate-[tr]x-lists index (endpoints supporting SE-10) static-low-level-rx-endpoint-4 1 or 2 (note) static-low-level-rx-endpoint-8 1 or 2
> NOTE: In this example static-low-level-rx-endpoint-4 can represent list se10-member-candidate-rx-lists index
but cannot be a member of se10-member-candidate-rx-lists index 2 Based on se10-member-candidate-list declared for endpoint that support Section Extension 10 by the O-RU, the O- DU configures a list tx/rx-eaxc-id-group, where each entry of this list comprises of representative-tx/rx-eaxc-id as the key/index of the list, where each list entry comprises of a list of member-tx/rx-eaxc-id (s) from one specific entry advertised in se10-member-candidate-list[] by the O-RU.
> NOTE: O-DU while configuring a given rx-eaxc-id-group[] entry, the O-DU excludes representative endpoint
from the configured member-list RU advertised se10-member-candidate-list-ref[] O-DU configured member-rx-eaxc-id within rx-eaxc-id-group[] rx-eaxc-id-group[] indexed by entry with members picked from se10-member-candidate-list[] representative-rx-eaxc-id as key list advertised by the O-RU low-level-rx-endpoint-1 low-level-rx-endpoint-2 low-level-rx-endpoint-4 low-level-rx-endpoint-3 low-level-rx-endpoint-8 low-level-rx-endpoint-5 low-level-rx-endpoint-6 low-level-rx-endpoint-8 low-level-rx-endpoint-7 low-level-rx-endpoint-9

# 16 Licensed assisted access

## 16.1 Introduction
Licensed-assisted access (LAA) leverages the carrier-aggregation (CA) functionality. With LAA, CA is performed between licensed and unlicensed component carriers (CCs). This enables the LAA system to opportunistically benefit from using unlicensed spectrum (e.g. UNII bands in the 5 GHz spectrum) to enhance the aggregated capacity of the O- RU with the objective of enhancing the downlink throughput. Several modifications in the RAN are needed to enable LAA in the O-DU and O-RU such as listen-before-talk (LBT), discontinuous transmission, carrier-selection, discovery reference signal (DRS) transmission, etc. This clause is focused on the LAA-related messages and procedures needed in the M-plane. The C-plane related messages are defined in clause 7.2.5.2 of the CUS-plane spec [2]. This version of the M-plane spec supports only LAA based on Rel. 13 of the 3GPP specs, where transmission on the unlicensed spectrum can be done only in the downlink direction. The support of eLAA Rel. 14 (i.e. enabling UL transmission on the unlicensed spectrum) may be included in a later version of the M-plane spec. The modifications at M-plane to Support LAA can be summarized as follows: 1) LAA-initiation process: O-DU learns about O-RU capabilities and configures it.
- O-RU LAA Support: The O-RU indicates it supports LAA by including support for the "urn:o-
ran:laa:x.y" and "urn:o-ran:laa-operations:x.y" namespaces in its ietf-yang-library model as specified in RFC 8525 [59].
- O-RU LAA Capability Information: When the LAA feature is enabled, leafs corresponding to LAA-
related O-RU capabilities, such as the number of supported LAA SCarriers, maximum LAA buffer size, etc, are conveyed via the M-plane to the O-DU as part of the o-ran-module-cap.yang module.
- O-RU LAA Configuration: The NETCONF client configures the unlicensed LAA component carrier
with the LAA-related parameters such as the energy-detection threshold, DRS measurement timing configuration (DMTC) period, etc. as part of the o-ran-uplane-config.yang module. The configuration of the number of LAA SCarriers, multi-carrier type, etc. is performed using the o-ran-laa.yang Module.
- For explanation of the LAA-initiation process, refer to Figure 6.1-1 in clause 6, where the O-RU LAA
capability info is conveyed within the "Retrieval of O-RU information" step, while the O-RU LAA configurations are conveyed in "Configuring the O-RU operational parameters" step in Figure 6.1-1. 2) Carrier-selection: Selecting the best channel in the unlicensed band, both initially and dynamically over time, as illustrated in Figure 16.1-1.

## 16.2 LAA-initiation process

### 16.2.1 LAA module capabilities
During LAA-initiation, the O-RU reports its LAA capabilities to the NETCONF client. These capabilities are sent at the start up as part of the o-ran-module-cap.yang module. The attributes included are: 1) sub-band-frequency-ranges: The unlicensed sub-bands (e.g. 46A, 46B, etc.) that are supported at the O-RU and their frequency ranges 2) number-of-laa-scarriers (uint8): Number of LAA SCarriers that the O-RU can support. 3) maximum-laa-buffer-size (uint16): Maximum O-RU buffer size in Kilobytes (KB) per CC. This parameter is needed at the O-DU to know how much data can be sent in advance and stored at the O-RU to address the LBT uncertainty. 4) maximum-processing-time (uint16): Maximum O-RU Processing time in microseconds at the O-RU to handle the received/transmitted packets from/to the O-DU. This parameter is needed at the O-DU to determine the time where it needs to send the data to the O-RU. 5) self-configure (Boolean): Capability to manage the contention window at the O-RU. Based on the CUS-spec, there are two modes of operation for LAA, 1) when the contention window is managed by the O-DU, and 2) when the contention window is managed by the O-RU. This field is set to True if the O-RU can manage the contention window locally.

### 16.2.2 LAA O-RU parameter configuration
The second stage of the LAA-initiation process is the configuration message (using RPC edit-config). In this message, the O-DU configures the O-RU with the required parameters in the downlink direction. LAA parameters can be configured by Netconf Client after capability exchange is finished. It can also be sent as needed, to reconfigure the O- RU with new parameters (e.g. ed-threshold-pdsch, etc.). The attributes of this message (o-ran-laa.yang Module) include: 1) number-of-laa-scarriers (uint8): Number of LAA SCarriers to be used at the O-RU. This number should be less than or equal the number reported by the O-RU in its module capabilities. 2) multi-carrier-type (Enumeration): This value indicates the list of multi carrier types (A1, A2, B1, B2) as specified in clause 15.1.5 of 3GPP TS 36.213 [32]. 3) multi-carrier-tx (Boolean): This value indicates whether self-deferral is activated or not. "True" indicates transmission on channel access win (i.e. no self-deferral). "False" indicates mutual transmission on multiple carriers. 4) multi-carrier-freeze (Boolean): This value indicates if the absence of other technology in the unlicensed band can be guaranteed. This attribute can only be used when the multi-carrier-type is A1. "False" indicates that absence of other technology is not guaranteed. 5) laa-ending-dwpts-supported (Boolean): This value indicates whether LAA ending in Downlink Pilot Time Slot (DwPTS) is supported. 6) laa-starting-in-second-slot-supported (Boolean): This value indicates LAA starting in second slot is supported. LAA carrier configurations (o-ran-uplane-conf.yang Module) include: 1) ed-threshold-pdsch (int8): This value indicates the energy detection (ED) threshold for LBT for PDSCH and for measurements in dBm. 2) ed-threshold-drs (int8): This value indicates the ED threshold for LBT for DRS in dBm. 3) tx-antenna-ports (uint8): This value indicates the Tx antenna ports for DRS. 4) transmission-power-for-drs (int8): This value indicates the offset of CRS power to reference signal power (dB). 5) dmtc-period (enumeration): This value indicates DMTC period in milliseconds. 6) dmtc-offset (uint8): This value indicates DMTC offset in Subframes. 7) lbt-timer (uint16): This value indicates LBT Timer in milliseconds. If Self Configure capability is set to "true", the following parameters are also needed to be configured. For every traffic priority class, the O-DU needs to configure maximum CW usage counter. This value indicates the maximum value of counter which shows how many max congestion window value is used for back off number of each priority class traffic. This value, as specified in clause 15.1.3 of 3GPP TS 36.213 [32], is represented as K. Based on the 3GPP specification, this value is selected by O-RU from the set of values {1, 2, …, 8}.

## 16.3 Carrier selection

### 16.3.1 LAA measurements
The function of the message "rpc start-measurements" is to order the O-RU to start measurements. This message can be used for carrier selection initially or dynamically over time. O-RU sends RPC response where status=ACCEPTED (positive case) or REJECTED (negative case). O-RU performs measurement and delivers result with respect to max response time. If result is not ready on time - O-RU sends notification with "measurement-success"=FALSE and with appropriate failure reason. For every configured band, the O-RU informs the NETCONF client whether the measurement was successful or not. For bands with successful measurements, the O-RU reports the occupancy ratio and average RSSI for each channel. For bands with failure measurements, the O-RU includes the reason (e.g. TIMEOUT when the O-RU is not able to finish the measurement for this specific band). The occupancy ratio of a given channel is defined as the percentage of the busy duration (i.e. measured signal power is larger than the energy-detection threshold) to the total measurement duration of this specific channel. The energy- detection threshold is specified in the o-ran-uplane-conf.yang module using the ed-threshold-pdsch leaf. Note that this threshold is the same as the energy-detection threshold used for LBT for PDSCH transmission. The total measurement duration per channel is specified in o-ran-laa-operation module using the duration-per-channel leaf. The range of the occupancy ratio is from 0% (no signal is detected over the total measurement duration per channel) to 100% (i.e. channel was always occupied during measurement). The average RSSI of the measured channel is the measured power of this specific channel averaged over the total measurement duration per channel. This parameter is reported to the NETCONF client in dBm and takes a value from the range 0 dBm to -128 dBm.

### 16.3.2 LAA carrier frequency configuration
After receiving the measurements, the NETCONF client configures the O-RU with the new channel(s), if needed. To start radio transmission and reception with a new centre frequency, for every component carrier (CC) that needs to be re-configured with a new centre frequency, the O-DU shall first deactivate the TX carrier, delete it, then create a new TX carrier (using the new centre carrier frequency as well as any other new configurations), and then activate the TX carrier again to start OTA operation. The procedure for deactivating/deleting/creating/activating the carrier is explained in clause 15.3: Carrier Configuration, in the M-plane specification and elaborated in Figure 15.2.4-1.
> NOTE 1: The creation of LAA carriers is identical to the creation of regular carriers but in the unlicensed bands. O-
RU responds to the configuration request with success or failure.
> NOTE 2: The carrier-selection algorithm at the O-DU (i.e. selecting the "best" channel based on the reported
measurements from the O-RU) is an implementation issue and is out of the scope of the present document.

# 17 Shared cell

## 17.1 Introduction
This clause specifies the support of the "Shared Cell" O-RU use case. The features of C/U-Plane aspects are described in clause 13 of [2]. The M-Plane aspects necessary to support Shared Cell are described in this clause 17.

## 17.2 Architecture
The NETCONF client (O-RU Controller) establishes M-Plane connection individually to each O-RU, where the O-RUs are operating in either cascade mode or FHM mode, as illustrated in Figure 17.2-1. In Figure 17.2-1, solid lines indicate C/U-plane interface and dotted lines indicate M-plane interface. Therefore, from the M-Plane point of view, the same architecture model can be applied as specified in clause 5.1.2. New functionality which is required to be added, together with existing functionality which is required to be enhanced are specified in clauses 17.3 to 17.6. There are no changes to the functionality described in the following clauses and their associated YANG models:
- Clause 8 : Software management
- Clause 11 : Fault management
- Clause 12 : File management

# A NETCONF client with suitable privileges is able to trigger a reset procedure for each O-RU. It is strongly
recommended that when triggering the reset procedures for multiple O-RUs, a NETCONF client should order the procedures such that a reset of an individual O-RU does not affect the operation of other O-RUs operating in either cascade or FHM mode. This can be achieved by correct ordering of the triggering of the reset procedure between the different O-RUs. For example, when triggering a reset involving multiple O-RUs operating in cascade mode, the ordering of the reset trigger sent by the NETCONF client should be done beginning with the last (most-southern) O-RU to the first (most northern) O-RU in chain. In configuration where FHM is used - when FHM reset is needed, O-RUs connected through this FHM should be reset first, then FHM reset can be performed. It is strongly recommended to disable carriers affected by such a reset procedure prior to the triggering of the reset to minimize the impact on C/U- plane traffic as much as possible. In case an O-RU connected through FHM requires to be reset - the reset does not impact to other O-RUs.
> NOTE: There is no difference between Hierarchical M-plane architecture and Hybrid M-plane architecture from
the point of reset ordering in either cascade mode (chain topology), or FHM mode (tree topology). Using this approach, a NETCONF client can performs software management on multiple O-RUs. Since this procedure may require the reset of the O-RU to update the appropriate software file(s) for the O-RUs, the NETCONF client is recommended to order the software management procedures such that the reset procedure issued against one O-RU shall not impact the other O-RUs or FHM.

## 17.3 Start-up and Installation
This clause provides the consideration regarding the shared cell specific additional mechanism for the overall start-up mechanism for "O-RUs with Copy and Combine function" and for "O-RUs without Copy and Combine function". Each O-RU establishes M-Plane connection individually to the NETCONF client in the O-RU Controller. The procedures through Transport Layer initialisation (DHCP process and VLAN scanning) and supervision of NETCONF connection are the same as Figure 6.1-1 in clause 6 for both “O-RUs with Copy and Combine function” and “O-RUs without Copy and Combine function”. For the transport layer initialisation, the following assumptions are made:
- The order of each O-RU's M-plane establishment is not restricted because of the network transparency at O-
RU (FHM and Cascade).
- For simplification, the network should be configured using a common management plane vlan-id or untagged
interface for all O-RUs within one shared cell network managed by same NETCONF client. As a result, the same vlan-id is learned by VLAN scanning by all O-RUs within the shared cell network. In the step "retrieval of O-RU information", the NETCONF client retrieves the O-RUs' capability from the NETCONF servers by using individual M-plane connection in parallel. The Copy and Combine related capability is defined in clause 17.6.1. After the retrieval of O-RU information, the NETCONF client performs the topology discovery procedure in order to discover the topology of NETCONF servers within one shared cell network. (See clause 17.6.2) The NETCONF client performs software management per O-RU as described in clause 8. As described in clause 17.2, as the reset procedure is required during the software management procedure, it is recommended that the NETCONF client resets the O-RU while taking account of the topology of O-RUs and whether a reset of one O-RU will affect other O-RUs in the chain or star topology. After the software management steps are completed for all NETCONF servers, the NETCONF client performs shared cell configuration. (See clause 17.6.3.) The NETCONF client performs transport configuration, connectivity check configuration, C/U-plane transport connectivity check procedure, Retrieval of the O-RU Delay Profile and U-plane configuration procedures for all O- RUs. In this version of the specification, the only processing element definition used for supporting shared cell is the Ethernet-type-flow which is a combination of VLAN identity and MAC address. The vlan-id(s) used for C/U-plane transport-flows is/are common to all O-RUs operating within one shared cell network. The Ethernet bridging functionality in an O-RU with Copy and Combine function is able to bridge the Ethernet Loopback messages between the O-DU and other O-RUs configured as part of the shared cell operation. For more details, see clause 17.6.2. The u-plane configuration in o-ran-uplane-conf module shall have identical configuration except config-false instances' names and low-level-tx(rx)-endpoints' names for all O-RUs operating within the one shared cell network. The value of gain in tx-array-carriers can be independently configured per O-RU (, i.e. a common value is not mandatory). The u-plane configuration in o-ran-uplane-conf module is no longer required for O-RU (FHM). Instead, shared-cell- copy-uplane-config and shared-cell-combine-uplane-config in o-ran-shared-cell.yang module are used. (See clause 17.6.4)
> NOTE: In this version of the specification, only eCPRI headers are supported for the C/U-Plane protocol (, i.e.
support of the IEEE 1914.3 header is not defined). The NETCONF client performs further steps for the regular start-up procedure as described in clause 6.

## 17.4 Performance management
This clause provides description of the specific part of Performance Management for shared cell.
> NOTE 1: Clause 9.1 of CUS specification [2] indicates whether a particular performance measurement is
mandatory or optional for Cascade/FHM O-RU. transceiver-stats: O-RU (Cascade / FHM) has multiple connections to O-DU and O-RU (Cascade/Normal). The baseline O-RU models permit O-RUs to be defined with multiple ports and multiple transceiver modules. Transceiver module is defined by o-ran-transceiver which refers the port-number for these interfaces. Refer to clause 17.6.1 O-RU Information for Shared Cell. In this case, the O-RU (Cascade / FHM) reports transceiver-stats per port-number. Rx-window-stats: O-RU (Cascade) monitors rx-window-stats per eaxc-id, per transport or per hardware component (O-RU) because it receives data flow from the north-node. An FHM has no radio transmission/reception functionality and hence cannot support RX_ON_TIME, RX_EARLY, RX_LATE, RX_ON_TIME_C, RX_EARLY_C, RX_LATE_C in rx- window-stats.
> NOTE 2: This version of the specification does support rx-window-stats to monitor the downlink reception
window and does not support monitoring by an O-RU of the uplink traffic from south-node. Tx-stats: O-RU (Cascade / FHM) monitors tx-stats per eaxc-id, per transport or per hardware component (O-RU) because it transmits data flow to the north-node.
> NOTE 3: This version of the specification does support tx-stats to monitor uplink traffic and does not support
monitoring by an O-RU of the downlink traffic to south-node. Shared-cell-stats: Cascade O-RU/FHM monitors shared-cell-stats on per TRANSPORT object-unit.
> NOTE 4: Monitoring by an O-RU of the uplink traffic from south-node can be achieved using shared-cell-stats.
Epe-stats: O-RU (Cascade / FHM) monitors epe-stats per hardware component. Symbol-rssi-stats: O-RU monitors symbol-rssi-stats per rx-array-carrier.
> NOTE 5: O-RU without radio transmission/reception capability (FHM) does not support monitoring of symbol-
rssi-stats Tx-antenna-stats: O-RU monitors tx-antenna-stats per tx-array element, or connector and band number.
> NOTE 6: O-RU without radio transmission/reception capability (FHM) does not support monitoring of tx-antenna-
stats. Tssi-stats-object: O-RU monitors tssi-stats-object per carrier_array_element.
> NOTE 7: O-RU without radio transmission/reception capability (FHM) does not support monitoring of tssi-stats-
object. Rssi-stats-object: O-RU monitors rssi-stats-object per carrier_array_element.
> NOTE 8: O-RU without radio transmission/reception capability (FHM) does not support monitoring of rssi-stats-
object. Tx-output-power-stats-object: O-RU monitors tx-output-power-stats-object per tx-array-carrier, tx-array-element, connector, carrier_array_element or array-carrier-connector.
> NOTE 9: O-RU without radio transmission/reception capability (FHM) does not support monitoring of tx-output-
power-stats-object. ethernet-stats: O-RU (Cascade / FHM) has multiple connections to O-DU and O-RU (Cascade/Normal). The baseline O-RU models permit O-RUs to be defined with multiple ethernet ports. Refer to clause 17.6.1 O-RU Information for Shared Cell. In this case, the O-RU (Cascade / FHM) reports ethernet-stats per port-number. Measurement-group measurement-units transceiver-stats port-number (multiple) rx-window-stats eaxc-id, transport or hardware component (O-RU) tx-stats eaxc-id, transport or hardware component (O-RU) shared-cell-stats transport epe-stats hardware component symbol-rssi-stats- rx-array-carrier object tx-antenna-stats tx-array element, or connector and band number tssi-stats-object carrier_array_element rssi-stats-object carrier_array_element tx-output-power- tx-array-carrier, tx-array-element, connector, carrier- stats-object array-element or array-carrier-connector ethernet-stats ethernet inteface name (multiple) For more detail, refer to Table B.2-1 Counters definition in clause B.

## 17.5 Delay management
In the shared cell environment, the use of O-RU Adaptive Delay capability is not permitted. The O-DU and each O-RU have their own delay parameters and supported transmission window and reception window. Also, the topology of the O-RU configuration can be detected by the topology discovery procedure. The O-DU can determine the delay budget between itself and the O-RUs considering the O-RUs' topology and delay parameters and its own transmission window and reception window. During this discovery, the required processing time of the O-RU is also considered. The O-RU processing time includes the copy operation for downlink operation, and the combine operation for uplink operation, and the delay periods for the copy and combine operations are defined as t- copy and t-combine in o-ran-shared-cell.yang module:
- t-copy: Corresponding to the maximum FHM or cascade O-RU processing delay between receiving an IQ
sample over the fronthaul interface from the north-node, coping it and transmitting it over the fronthaul interface to the south-node.
- t-combine: Corresponding to the maximum FHM or cascade O-RU processing delay between receiving an IQ
sample over the fronthaul interface from the south-node(s), combing them and transmitting it over the fronthaul interface to the north-node. Therefore, based on the above information, the O-DU can determine how many O-RUs are configured to operate in a shared cell instance. After the delay budget between the O-DU and the furthest (southern-most) O-RU in the chain is determined, multiple O-RUs can be configured to operate in between the O-DU and the furthest O-RU. The time budget between the O-DU and the furthest O-RU is constant and is shared for all O-RUs operating in cascade mode. For combine function operation, the O-RU shall await the successful reception of the eCPRI frame(s) from the south- node(s). Once the FHM receives the eCPRI frame from all of the south-nodes, the O-RU (FHM) can perform the combine operation. Once the cascade O-RU receives the eCPRI frame from the south-node, the O-RU can perform the combine operation using the eCPRI frame and received radio information. The maximum time an O-RU is permitted to wait for the required eCPRI frames is set by the ta3-prime-max configured by NETCONF client. If the O-RU cannot commence the combination procedure until a time after the configured ta3-prime-max minus t-combine, e.g. due to the delayed reception of eCPRI frame(s), the O-RU shall discard the delayed eCPRI frames if received and combine other received frames (for FHM mode) or radio information (for Cascade mode). The configurable ta3-prime-max shall be equal to or less than ta3-prime-max-upper-range which is the capability of O-RU, related to the internal memory for combine operation. The detail for C/U-plane aspects is described in clause 13.4.3 of [2]. The ta3-prime-max schema node is relevant to the timing on each symbol. The scs schema node indicates each symbol timing. The capability of supported SCSes is reported by leaf-list scs-supported. Among them the intended SCSes should be informed to FHM/Cascade O-RU as scs schema node, associating with eaxc-id. SCS in an eaxc-id can be different from that of another eaxc-id. SCS in an eaxc-id can be also plural. FHM/Cascade O-RU reports the capability of supporting multiple SCS in a single eaxc-id as the feature MULTIPLE-SCS-IN-EAXC, and O-DU should check before configuring multiple SCS in a single eaxc-id.
- ta3-prime-max: The latest time that FHM or cascade O-RU is allowed to send UL U-plane message to north-
node relative to reception timing at O-RU antenna.
- ta3-prime-max-upper-range: The upper limit for the configurable ta3-prime-max value. This is the capability
information of O-RU that comes from the O-RU internal memory for the combine operation. Clause 13.5.3 of the CUS specification [2] introduces new parameters for controlling combine operations: t-combine-net: is the read-only processing delay as the reported by the FHM/Cascade O-RU tx-duration: is a configurable parameter by O-DU or a calculated parameter by FHM/Cascade O-RU, corresponding to the message transmission duration. Where: the sum of t-combine-net processing delay and the maximum tx-duration transmission duration corresponds to the t-combine duration.
> NOTE: CUS Plane [2] refers to these parameters as T_Combine_net, Tx_Duration and T_Comb.
An FHM/Cascade O-RU can signal to an O-RU Controller that it supports these parameters by indicating it supports the ENHANCED-T-COMBINE YANG feature. The O-DU configures such an FHM/Cascade O-RU to use the new parameters by setting the enhanced-t-combine-enabled to 'true'. In this case, the FHM/Cascade O-RU shall use t- combine-net and tx-duration to calculate the T_waiting (Refer to 13.5.3 of [2]) instead of t-combine. If enhanced-t- combine-enabled is set to ' true' and if no value of tx-duration is configured by the O-DU, the FHM/Cascade O-RU shall calculate tx-duration from shared-cell-combine-entities, ensuring that the maximum amount of calculation does not exceed the symbol duration without cyclic prefix designated by ta3-prime-max. When multiple SCSes are supported by FHM/Cascade O-RU, there are multiple combine delays according to SCSes or configured tx-duration per SCS. This capability may be exposed by FHM/Cascade O-RU through combine-delay-per- scs.

## 17.6 Details of O-RU operations for shared cell

### 17.6.1 O-RU information for shared cell
This clause provides the function detail of O-RU operations for a shared cell. Interfaces to south-node of O-RU with Copy and Combine function Cascade O-RU may have one additional transport interface to south-node and FHM may have more than one additional transport interfaces to south-nodes, illustrated in Figure 17.6.1-1. Both the interface to north-node and the interface to south-node can be defined by ietf-interface YANG model with type = ethernetCsmacd, augmented by o-ran-interface for mac-address and port-number. Transceiver module is defined by o-ran-transceiver which refers the port-number for these interfaces. The maximum number of the interfaces is just the number of physical interfaces within the O-RU.
> NOTE: The present document defines the use of IEEE 802.1X port based access control, as described in clause
7.12. In order to use IEEE 802.1X, a supplicant PAE in an O-RU needs to signal with an authenticator PAE. The present document does not define operation of an authenticator PAE in an O-RU, instead only defining operation of the supplicant PAE functionality. Operators wanting to benefit from IEEE 802.1X when operating a shared cell configuration need to consider which network element(s) is/are responsible for supporting the authenticator PAE function. The role of interfaces shall be detected by topology discovery procedure described in clause 17.6.2. If the O-RU has any interfaces to south-node and if they are utilized for shared cell scenario, the NETCONF client shall configure the higher layer ietf-interface (type = l2vlan) including configuring the corresponding mac-address and C/U- plane vlan-id configuration for each ietf-interface (type = ethernetCsmacd) to south-node, in addition to the higher layer ietf-interface (type = l2vlan) configured for the ietf-interface (type =ethernetCsmacd) to north-node in clause 7.3. If an interface to a south-node is not used for shared cell scenario, the NETCONF client does not need to configure the higher layer ietf-interface (type = l2vlan) for it. Capability of O-RU with Copy and Combine function The configuration for Copy and Combine function is defined in the o-ran-shared-cell.yang module. The presence of this yang module signalled in O-RU's YANG library indicates that O-RU can support the copy and combine function. The shared-cell-module-cap container includes the information for the internal maximum processing delay for both the copy function and the combine function required for delay management operations. The shared-cell-module-cap container also includes the information defining the maximum numbers of copy and combine functions supported. This information is used by the NETCONF client to determine how many south-nodes can be supported and how many eaxc- ids can be used for copy and combine procedures. It also contains the information defining the compression capability supported by the FHM. It contains scs-supported capability of FHM in the present document. For the cascade mode, the cascade O-RU shall support normal O-RU operations, i.e. radio transmission and reception. For the FHM mode, the FHM does not have the capability for radio transmission and reception. The o-ran-shared- cell.yang module defines the feature FHM to indicate that O-RU acts as FHM and does not have the capability of radio transmission and reception. Yang modules for FHM mode Especially for the FHM mode, some of the yang modules are not necessary because the FHM does not have the capability for radio transmission and reception. The following yang modules are not applicable for O-RU (FHM). For more detail, see clause C.1.
- o-ran-ald module and o-ran-ald-port: Antenna Line device is directly connected to O-RU.
- o-ran-laa-operations and o-ran-laa: out-scope for LAA and radio transmission related only.
- o-ran-module-cap: radio transmission related parameters only.
- o-ran-beamforming: radio transmission (beamforming) specific parameters only.
- o-ran-uplane-conf: radio transmission (uplane configuration) specific parameters only.

### 17.6.2 Topology discovery procedure
The O-DU shall determine the topology (adjacency relationships) of O-RUs for the shared cell. In this version of the specification, only Ethernet based transport of C/U sessions for shared cells is supported. The shared cell topology discovery procedure operates at the Ethernet layer, using the LBM/LBR connectivity checking procedure defined in clause 7.6 to fill the Ethernet Forwarding Information Base (FIB), and is based on the O-DU recovering the FIB. The transparent bridge functionality is used in the shared cell capable O-RUs operating in FHM and/or cascade mode. In a typical operation, an O-DU performs a two-stage procedure for determining the topology: 1) In a first stage, the O-DU performs Ethernet connectivity monitoring on all discovered O-RU MAC addresses, using the procedures defined in clause 7.6.1. The sending of the Ethernet Loopback responses from the discovered MAC addresses ensures that the transparent bridges in the O-RUs operating in FHM and cascade mode automatically learns the MAC addresses switched through these devices.
> NOTE: In addition to Ethernet connectivity monitoring, DHCP discovery, call home and M-plane connection
establishment can also be used to populate information in the FIB and so may be sufficient when an O- RU only has a single port configured for interfacing to its north-node. 2) In a second stage, the O-DU uses the o-ran-ethernet-forwarding.yang module to discover which MAC addresses have been learnt by the Ethernet bridge functionality. The O-DU uses the individual Ethernet forwarding table entries to determine the adjacency relationships. If the topology of the cascade architecture does not ensure that Ethernet frames sent between a south-node and a north- node are bridged by an O-RU, the O-DU needs information in addition to the O-RU FIB to perform topology discovery. How an O-DU becomes aware that additional information is required, together with the definition of such information, is outside the scope of the present document. mode and FHM mode of operations, together with the associated Transparent Bridge FIB tables.

### 17.6.3 Shared cell configuration on transport flow
Shared cell configuration consists shared-cell-copy-entities and shared-cell-combine-entities. Both define the transport-flows for the processing elements of the interface to north-node and the interface to south-node. The container shared-cell-combine-entities contains the ta3-prime-max and scs to be used in delay management as described in clause 17.5. As per conventional o-ran-processing-element.yang, the transport-flow (eth-flow) of the processing element is a combination of o-du-mac-address, ru-mac-address and vlan-id for legacy eth-flow. The present document introduces 2 more eth-flow options for shared cell scenario:
- The transport-flow definition for the interface to north-node: north-eth-flow is a combination of north-node-
mac-address, ru-mac-address and vlan-id.
- The transport-flow definition for the interface to south-node: south-eth-flow is a combination of south-node-
mac-address, ru-mac-address and vlan-id. Either legacy eth-flow or north-eth-flow can be used for last (southern) O-RUs in tree or chain topology. The leaf o- du-mac-address, north-node-mac-address, south-node-mac-address and ru-mac-address are configured as follows:
- For FHM or Cascade O-RU which performs DL Copy function and UL Combine function:
- north-eth-flow for the interface to north-node:
▪ north-node-mac-address: MAC address of the north-node (O-DU) ▪ ru-mac-address: MAC address of the interface to north-node in FHM/Cascade O-RU ▪ vlan-id
- south-eth-flow for the interface to south-node:
▪ south-node-mac-address: MAC address of the south-node (O-RU) ▪ ru-mac-address: MAC address of the interface to south-node in FHM/Cascade O-RU ▪ vlan-id
> NOTE 1: Same vlan-id is configured on both sets of processing elements.
- For Cascasde O-RU in the last node, which doesn't perform DL Copy function and UL Combine function:
- north-eth-flow for the interface to north-node:
▪ north-node-mac-address: MAC address of the north-node ▪ ru-mac-address: MAC address of the interface to north-node in O-RU ▪ vlan-id or
- eth-flow for the interface to north-node:
▪ o-du-mac-address: MAC address of the north-node ▪ ru-mac-address: MAC address of the interface to north-node in O-RU ▪ vlan-id
- For O-RU in the last node, but not cascade O-RU:
- eth-flow for the interface to north-node:
▪ o-du-mac-address: MAC address of the north-node ▪ ru-mac-address: MAC address of the interface to north-node in O-RU ▪ vlan-id Copy and Combine functions are disabled if not configured, meaning the functions are disabled by default. For the cascade O-RU, the processing element for north-node shall be connected to the low-level-[tr]x-links in u-plane configuration as in Figure 15.2.4-1 in clause 15.2.4. In the FHM, there is no radio transmission, so no low-level-[tr]x- links exists. Figure 17.6.3-2 illustrates the example of topology diagram and shared cell copy/combine entities. Each thick blue line indicates the transport-flow in the processing element. The following is the information for this example of topology configuration. FHM mode)
- One transport-flow for north-node corresponds to the two transport-flows for south-nodes: O-RU#2a and 2b
respectively. O-RU#2a and #2b have same u-plane configuration.
- Two transport-flows for north-node correspond to the two times two transport-flows for south-nodes: O-
RU#2x and #2y respectively. O-RU#2x and #2y have same u-plane configuration. Cascade mode)
- Two transport-flows for north-node correspond to two transport-flows for south-node and own u-plane-
configuration. O-RU#1 and O-RU#2 have same u-plane configuration.
> NOTE 2: "two transport-flows" above is just the example scenario that two optical physical lines are used for
fronthaul connection, which has been supported in the present document. The total capacity of the interfaces to north-node for FHM is assumed that required traffic can be transported for multiple shared cells. O-RU Controller shall ensure that the capacity of any link shall not be exceeded due to copy and combine configuration. Information only for the C/U-plane behaviour as the background at COMMON/SELECTIVE-BEAM-ID shared cell copy and combine mode. For the traffic from the north-node to O-RU (FHM / cascade), there are DL C-plane and U-plane traffic and UL C-plane traffic in the transport interface. When operating with COMMON shared cell copy and combine mode, all C/U-plane traffic received from north-node is copied and forwarded to the south-node(s). For the traffic from south-node, there is UL U-plane traffic only in each transport interface to south-node. When operating with COMMON shared cell copy and combine mode, all U-plane traffic received from the south-node(s) is combined and forwarded to the north-node. It is assumed that common compression mechanism for uplink is configured by M-plane for all O-RUs in one shared cell network. When operating with SELECTIVE-BEAM-ID shared cell copy and combine mode, some selected C/U-plane traffic received from the north-node are copied and forwarded to the south-node and some selected U-plane traffic received from south-node are combined and forwarded to the north-node. This version of the specification supports SELECTIVE-BEAM-ID.

### 17.6.4 U-plane configuration for FHM
FHM does not have u-plane configuration defined in o-ran-uplane-conf.yang module. Instead, FHM has shared-cell specific u-plane configuration in shared-cell-copy-entities/shared-cell-combine-entities for DL Copy function and UL Combine function, See clause 13.2 of CUS specification [2] for the details of those functions. DL Copy function is performed on the received CU-Plane message to make multiple its messages to the specific south nodes. Different eAxC flow can arrive at its specific south node differently, so transport-flow is associated with eaxc- id, which is unique in shared-cell-copy-entities per data direction (DL/UL). The shared-cell-copy-uplane-config is the eaxc-id list used by DL C-plane, DL U-plane and UL C-plane traffic. UL Combine function is performed on the received U-Plane messages from the specific multiple south nodes to make a message to a single north node on the certain timing. Combine function extracts IQ data per RE from U-Plane message and combine multiple IQ data into a single IQ data. The shared-cell-combine-uplane-config includes the compression method of the UL U-plane messages from O-RUs within the shared cell network in shared cell combine function. The compression method is configurable per eaxc-id. It also contains downlink-radio-frame-offset, downlink-sfn-offset and n-ta-offset to define the uplink timing of t=0 for the configured ta3-prime-max. In addition, number-of-prb is also contained for the cases that all PRBs in numPrbc are controlled by C-plane message or tx-duration is calculated by FHM. FHM may have multiple sets of shared cell networks as described in Figure 17.6.3-2. E.g. O-RU#2a and O-RU#2b are one shared cell network. O-RU#2x and O-RU#2y are another shared cell network. These two shared cell networks are separated transport layer level definitions using separate processing-element/transport-flows. Nevertheless, the O-RU Controller shall ensure that the eaxc-id allocation for the shared cell networks shall be unique per link (downlink or uplink) in one O-RU (FHM). NETCONF client (O-RU Controller) shall ensure to allocate unique eaxc-id for O-RU(s) per link within the shared cell network(s) in one O-RU (FHM).
> NOTE 1: shared-cell-copy-uplane-config and shared-cell-combine-uplane-config are not applicable to the
cascade mode. Instead, o-ran-uplane-conf.yang module is applied.
> NOTE 2: If the FHM supports the C/U-plane monitoring timer described in clause 7.10, then depending on how
long the O-DU takes to initiate sending of C/U plane data flows, it may be advisable for the NETCONF client to initially disable the operation of the timer for the FHM before carrier activation to O-RUs that are south-nodes for the FHM. Such an approach avoids the FHM sending spurious alarm notifications triggered by O-DU delays in initializing the sending of C/U plane data that exceed the default timer value. Once C/U plane data flows have commenced, the NETCONF client can re-configure the timer with the desired value and hence activate monitoring of the C/U plane connectivity by the FHM.

### 17.6.5 Support of selective transmission and reception function
This clause describes M-Plane support for selective transmission and reception function which is specified in clause 13.3 of [2]. There are two things to be introduced for supporting the function from M-Plane perspective:
- Feature which indicates FHM support for selective transmission and reception function.
- Configuration parameters which indicate the mapping information between global beamId, O-RU(s) and O-RU
local beamId. If FHM indicates the feature "SELECTIVE-BEAM-ID" to O-DU, O-DU can configure the mapping information between global beamId, O-RU(s) and O-RU local beamId to the FHM to use selective transmission and reception function. For configuring the information, mapping-table-for-selective-beam-id is used.

## 17.7 Cascade-FHM mode

### 17.7.1 Background
The introduction of Cascade-FHM mode is described in clause 13.7 of [2]. This clause describes mainly shared cell configuration on cascaded FHMs. For other common parts, like start-up procedures, topology discovery procedure etc., refer to relevant parts in clause 17. In this version of the specification, the maximum level of cascaded FHMs is limited to 2. The first cascade FHM nearest to O-DU is named FHM#1, the second FHM is named FHM#2.

### 17.7.2 Shared cell configuration on cascaded FHMs
The NETCONF client shallconfigure shared cell copy entities and shared cell combine entities on FHM#1 and FHM#2 respectively. In Figure 17.7.2-1 there are two types of FHM to FHM traffic: 1) Type 1: the cell of traffic is on O-RUs of both FHM#1 and FHM#2. For example, the Cell#1 of Same cell scenario; 2) Type 2: the cell of traffic is only on O-RUs of FHM#2. For example, the Cell#2 of Two cells Scenario. In this scenario a single SCS per FHM is assumed. When multiple SCS are used in FHM, shared-cell-combine-entities are increased accordingly. For Type 1, taking Cell#1 of Same cell scenario as example, the shared cell configuration on FHM#1 and FHM#2 are as follows: FHM#1:
- In DL direction, it needs one element of shared-cell-copy-entities with one of south nodes connecting to
FHM#2 and other south nodes connecting to the O-RUs serving FHM#1, and with north node connecting to O-DU. NETCONF Client selects eaxc-ids carried by the CU-Plane messages who will go to FHM#2 and fills them to eaxc-id list of shared-cell-copy-uplane-config.
- In UL direction, it needs one element of shared-cell-combine-entities with one of south nodes
connecting to FHM#2 and other south nodes connecting to the O-RUs serving FHM#1, and with north node connecting to O-DU. NETCONF Client selects eaxc-ids carried by the U-Plane messages who are from FHM#2 and fills them to eaxc-id list of shared-cell-combine-uplane-config. FHM#2:
- In DL direction, it needs one element of shared-cell-copy-entities with north node connecting to
FHM#1 and south nodes connecting to the O-RUs serving FHM#2. NETCONF Client selects eaxc-ids carried by the CU-Plane messages who are from FHM#1 and fills them to eaxc-id list of shared-cell- copy-uplane-config.
- In UL direction, it needs one element of shared-cell-combine-entities with north node connecting to
FHM#1 and south nodes connecting to the O-RUs serving FHM#2. NETCONF Client selects eaxc-ids carried by the U-Plane messages who will go to FHM#1 and fills them to eaxc-id list of shared-cell- combine-uplane-config. For Type 2, taking Cell#2 of Two cells scenario as example, the shared cell configuration on FHM#1 and FHM#2 are as follows: FHM#1:
- In DL or UL direction, existing only one south node which connects to FHM#2 and other steps are no
difference with FHM#1 of Type 1;
> NOTE: In Two cells scenario, there will be two elements of shared-cell-copy-entities in DL direction in FHM#1,
one is for Cell#1 and another is for Cell#2. Similarly, there will be two elements of shared-cell-combine- entities in UL direction in FHM#1, one is for Cell#1 and another is for Cell#2. FHM#2:
- There is no difference with FHM#2 of Type 1.
Both FHM#1 and FHM#2 do not need to have u-plane configuration defined in o-ran-uplane-conf.yang module since no radio transmission on the two FHMs.

# 18 Configured subscriptions

## 18.1 Introduction
The support by an O-RU of configured subscriptions is an optional capability, advertised by the O-RU indicating it supports the ietf-subscribed-notifications YANG model as specified in RFC 8639 [37] in its YANG library together with the configured feature. This capability enables an O-RU Controller to install a subscription via configuration of the O-RU's datastore. Importantly, the lifetime of such a configured subscription is not limited to the lifetime of the NETCONF session used to establish it, enabling a configured subscription to persist even when an O-RU has been temporarily disconnected from the network. An O-RU may store configured subscription information in its reset- persistent memory. The ietf-subscribed-notifications YANG model defines a transport agnostic mechanism for subscribing to and receiving content from an event stream in an O-RU. An O-RU that supports configured subscriptions shall also support the encode-json feature together with the augmentation of the ietf-subscribed-notifications YANG model by the o- ran-ves-subscribed-notifications YANG model.

## 18.2 Description
An O-RU controller can discover the event-streams supported by an O-RU. The O-RU Controller may then establish a configured subscription to a particular event-stream. The same NACM privileges defined in clause 6.5 shall be used by the O-RU in determining whether an O-RU controller has privileges to establish a configured subscription to a particular event-stream. Based on configured subscriptions, the O-RU shall send asynchronous notifications over HTTPS to the configured Event-Collector. This capability can be used with any existing YANG notification, e.g. defined in YANG models published by the O-RAN Alliance or imported from other organisations.

## 18.3 Procedure
The overall procedure is illustrated in Figure 18.3-1. Pre-condition:

# A NETCONF sessions is established between the O-RU and an O-RU Controller.
1) The O-RU controller gets the streams container and discovers the event-streams supported by an O-RU. 2) The O-RU controller uses the "edit-config" RPC to configure a subscription to an event-stream. The RPC includes the receiver container augmented with the notification-recipient schema node that encodes the URI of the Event-Collector. 3) If the O-RU controller has the correct privileges, the O-RU accepts the configured subscription. 4) As the lifetime of the configured subscription is not limited by the lifetime of the NETCONF session, the O- RU controller may terminate the NETCONF session without causing the subscription to be suspended. 5) After a subscription is successfully established, the O-RU immediately sends a "subscription-started" notification to the Event-Collector, as specified in clause 2.5 of RFC 8639 [37]. 6) Upon an event that triggers a YANG notification, the O-RU sends a notification over HTTPS , according to clause 2.5 of RFC8639. Post-condition: The Event-Collector is able to update its operational-state datastore with the information received in the notification.

## 18.4 Notification encoding
The O-RU shall support JSON encoding as specified in RFC 7951 [38]. An example notification object generated using the o-ran-file-management.yang model and encoded following RFC 7951 [38] is illustrated in Figure 18.4-1. { "ietf-restconf:notification": { "eventTime": "2020-11-11T20:20:00Z", "o-ran-file-management:file-upload-notification": { "local-logical-file-path": "o-ran/pm /C201805181300+0900_201805181330+0900_ABC0123456.csv", "remote-file-path": "sftp://nms-user@10.10.10.10/home/pm/ C201805181300+0900_201805181330+0900_ABC0123456.csv", "status": "SUCCESS" } } }

## 18.5 Notification transport
As described in RFC 8639 [37] clause 2.5.7, an O-RU supporting configured subscriptions shall provide a YANG data model capturing the necessary transport-specific configuration parameters. O-RAN compliant Event-Producers shall support the o-ran-ves-subscribed-notifications YANG model. For transport, the notification JSON objects encoded according to clause 18.4 are further encapsulated in VES events. In order to enable the notifications sent to the Event-Collector to retain their native notification format/schema as defined in O-RAN, IETF and other YANG models, the ONAP/VES header is used to enable the decoupling of the notification payload from the overall VES event format, as illustrated in Figure 18.4-1. The VES common header shall include the following fields:
- The value of the eventName field shall be set to " ORU-YANG/<model-identifier>:<notification-identifier>".
- The value of the eventID field shall be set to "stndDefined-ORU-YANG-nnnnnnnnn", where nnnnnnnnn
represents the integer key for the event.
- The value of the sourceName and reportingEntityName fields shall both be set to the value of the ru-instance-
id leaf defined in the o-ran-operations YANG model. { "event": { "commonEventHeader": { "version": "4.1", "vesEventListenerVersions": "7.2", "domain": "stndDefined", "eventName": "ORU-YANG/o-ran-file-management:file-upload-notification", "eventID": "stndDefined-ORU-YANG-000000249", "sequence": 0, "priority": "Normal", "sourceName": "vendorA_ORUAA100_FR1918010111", "reportingEntityName": "vendorA_ORUAA100_FR1918010111", "stndDefinedNamespace": "urn:o-ran:file-management:1.0" "startEpochMicrosec": 1605126000000000, "lastEpochMicrosec": 1605126000000000 }, "stndDefinedFields": { "schemaReference": "https://gerrit.o-ran- sc.org/r/gitweb?p=scp/oam/modeling.git;a=blob;f=data-model/yang/published/o-ran/ru-fh/o-ran- file-management.yang", "data": { "ietf-restconf:notification": { "eventTime": "2020-11-11T20:20:00Z", "o-ran-file-management:file-upload-notification": { "local-logical-file-path": "o-ran/pm /C201805181300+0900_201805181330+0900_ABC0123456.csv", "remote-file-path": "sftp://nms-user@10.10.10.10/home/pm/ C201805181300+0900_201805181330+0900_ABC0123456.csv", "status": "SUCCESS" } } }, "stndDefinedFieldsVersion": "1.0" } }} The VES events carrying the notifications are sent to the Event-Collector over HTTPS with a POST operation following the VES specification [i.2]. The complete protocol stack is illustrated in Figure 18.5-2.

## 18.6 Monitoring the communications channel between O-RU and Event-Collector

### 18.6.1 Background
An O-RU controller can use the NETCONF monitoring capability described in clause 6.7 to trigger the repeated sending of a supervision-notification by the O-RU to a subscribed O-RU Controller to ensure the channel is operational and able to transport asynchronous notifications using NETCONF. An equivalent capability is required to be supported by those O-RUs that support configured subscriptions transported using JSON/HTTPS, to enable the monitoring of the communications channel from the O-RU to the Event-Collector. The format of the heartbeat notifications is identical to the Event-Collector Notification Format determined for the operation of pnfRegistration as described in clause 6.2.7, i.e. in this version of the specification, this capability adopts the ONAP defined guidelines for Heartbeat, as defined in [i.2].

### 18.6.2 Heartbeat encoding
The VES common header shall include the following fields:
- The value of the sourceName and reportingEntityName fields shall both be set to the value of the ru-instance-
id leaf defined in the o-ran-operations YANG model. An example heartbeat encoding is illustrated in Figure 18.6.2-1. { "event": { "commonEventHeader": { "version": "4.1", "vesEventListenerVersions": "7.2", "domain": "heartbeat", "eventID": "heartbeat-00000001", "eventName": "heartbeat-oru", "sequence": 0, "priority": "Normal", "sourceName": "vendorA_ORUAA100_FR1918010111", "reportingEntityName": "vendorA_ORUAA100_FR1918010111", "startEpochMicrosec": 1605126000000000, "lastEpochMicrosec": 1605126000000000 }, "heartbeatFields": { "heartbeatFieldsVersion": "3.0", "heartbeatInterval": "60" } }}

### 18.6.3 Heartbeat control
Control of the heartbeat does not use the configured subscriptions capability. An O-RU controller configures heartbeat operation using the o-ran-supervision YANG model. An O-RU Controller shall configure the heartbeat-recipient-id to the address(es) of the Heartbeat Event-Collector and optionally configure the heartbeat-interval leaf to a non-default heartbeat interval. In order to terminate operation of the monitoring the communications channel between O-RU and the Event-Collector, the O-RU Controller shall delete the configuration in the event-collector-monitoring container.

### 18.6.4 Heartbeat procedure
In contrast to the monitoring of NETCONF connectivity described in clause 6.7 which define O-RU procedures when monitoring of NETCONF connectivity fails, there is no equivalent O-RU functionality defined if an O-RU determines that monitoring of the communications channel between O-RU and event-collector fails, e.g. if the O-RU is unable to establish a TLS connection to the event-collector. Operation of the SMO when it determines that the monitoring of the communications channel between an O-RU and event-collector fails is out of scope of the present document.

# 19 Multi-Operator O-RU Operation

## 19.1 Introduction
The support by an O-RU of Multi-Operator O-RU operation is an optional capability, advertised by the O-RU indicating it supports the SHARED-ORU-MULTI-OPERATOR feature in its o-ran-wg4-features YANG model. All O-RUs that support the SHARED-ORU-MULTI-OPERATOR feature shall also support the SHARED-ORU- MULTI-ODU feature. These capabilities enable an O-RU to connect to multiple O-DUs that belong to different Shared Resource Operators. The Multi-Operator O-RU architecture enables a Shared Resource Operator to configure an agreed subset of shared O- RU resources independently from configuration and operating strategies of the other Shared Resource Operators. More specifically, a Shared O-RU Host makes available its shared O-RUs to enable connectivity to the O-DUs of one or more Shared Resource Operators allowing these Shared Resource Operators to configure and control such Shared O-RU.
> NOTE: How a Shared O-RU Host defines the partitioning of shared O-RU resources and communicates that
information to a Shared Resource Operator is outside the scope of the present document.

## 19.2 High level shared O-RU architecture
When an O-RU is being configured by an independent Shared Resource Operator, a separate O-RU Controller associated with the Shared O-RU Host is required to configure the common aspects of the shared O-RU. Such a deployment is illustrated in Figure 19.2-1. When the Shared O-RU Host also operates an O-DU, the shared O-RU host may operate the M-Plane in either hybrid or hierarchical approach, as illustrated in Figures 19.2-2 and 19.2-3 respectively. In either case, the Shared O-RU Host uses a NETCONF client with "sudo" privileges, as defined in clause 6.5, to configure the shared O-RU. Each Shared Resource Operator uses NETCONF clients with " carrier" privileges that have parallel M-Plane connections with the shared O-RU. Resource Operator(s). Shared Resource Operator managing Shared O-RU using hybrid approach Shared Resource Operator managing Shared O-RU using hierarchical approach As illustrated in Figures 19.2-1, 19.2-2 and 19.2-3, from an Open Fronthaul perspective, the Shared O-RU is able to be deployed in variety of architectures. Clause 5.1.2 requires all O-RUs to support multiple NETCONF sessions, with the number of simultaneous sessions exposed using the maximum-simultaneous-netconf-sessions schema node in o-ran-operations YANG model. A Multi- Operator O-RU that is able to support (n) simultaneous NETCONF sessions, shall be able to support (m) Shared Resource Operators, where the cumulative NETCONF sessions operated by the (m) Shared Resource Operators is less than (n).

## 19.3 Shared O-RU "start up" procedure

### 19.3.1 NETCONF server user account provisioning for shared resource
operators The Shared O-RU Host shall use the procedures defined in clause 6.4 and the o-ran-usermgmt YANG model to configure separate user accounts on the shared O-RU's NETCONF server for each Shared Resource Operator. The user account for a Shared Resource Operator that is not also a Shared O-RU Host should only be configured with "carrier" access control group, as defined in clause 6.5. A user account is identified as being associated with a Shared Resource Operator by having one or more configured sro-ids. The sro-id is allocated by the Shared O-RU Host to the Shared Resource Operator(s) and is used in partitioning shared O-RU resources.
> NOTE 1: How a Shared O-RU Host communicates NETCONF user account information, including sro-id
information, to a Shared Resource Operator is outside the scope of the present document.
> NOTE 2: The format of the sro-id string is not defined and not interpreted by the shared O-RU. In one example, the
operators can agree to use a PLMN-Id corresponding to the Shared Resource Operator as the sro-id.

### 19.3.2 NETCONF call home to shared resource operator O-DUs
The user account provisioning procedures defined in clauses 6.4.3 and 19.3.1 should be performed before the shared-O- RU calls home to the shared resource operator O-DUs.
> NOTE 1: This avoids the possibility of the shared resource operator using the default account procedures in clause
6.4.2, e.g. by leveraging knowledge of a default account credential that is common across different deployments of a vendor's equipment. The procedures defined in clauses 6.2.5 and 6.3 are used by the Shared O-RU Host to trigger the establishment of the NETCONF session with a NETCONF client of the Shared O-RU Host. The Shared O-RU Host can subsequently use the o-ran-mplane-int YANG model and the configured-client-info container to configure the Multi-Operator O-RU with NETCONF client information corresponding to the individual Shared Resource Operator(s) of the shared O-RU. Standard DHCP-based procedure, as specified in clause 5.1.4, still apply to retrieve NETCONF client information corresponding to the individual Shared Resource Operator(s) of the shared O-RU.
> NOTE 2: How the Shared O-RU Host becomes aware of information to identify the Shared Resource Operator's
NETCONF clients to be used with a specific shared O-RU is out of scope of the present document. If the O-RU supports static routing as specified in clause 6.2.8, the O-RU shall use its routing table to route the M-Plane traffic towards the Shared Resource operator's O-RU Controller/NETCONF client. Following procedures defined in clause 6.3, this will trigger the Multi-Operator O-RU to perform additional call home procedures to any configured clients, which in this scenario will be the NETCONF clients corresponding to individual Shared Resource Operators.

### 19.3.3 Enhanced sro-id based NETCONF access control
The resource configuration framework defines particular named list entries in the shared O-RU's configuration that can be allocated to an sro-id. The enhanced NACM privileges defined in this clause enable the Shared Resource Operator to configure the shared O-RU's list entries that have been previously configured by the Shared O-RU Host with the shared resource operator's sro-id. The O-RU NETCONF access control techniques defined in clause 6.5 are enhanced for operation with NETCONF clients corresponding to Shared Resource Operators of a shared O-RU, i.e. those where the user account of the NETCONF client has been configured with an sro-id. Specifically, the NETCONF access control read permissions for
- urn:o-ran:processing-elements:x.y
- urn:o-ran:uplane-conf:x.y
- urn:o-ran:performance-management:x.y
- urn:o-ran:message5:x.y
- urn:o-ran:shared-cell:x.y
For the above models, the read privileges for specific node-instance-identifiers defined in Table 19.3.3-1 through Table 19.3.3-5 are refined based on the sro-id(s) associated with the user account of the NETCONF client. Normal NACM rules shall apply to any node-instance identifier not listed in the table. module o-ran:processing-elements:x.y Restricted node- Refined privileges for "carrier" group for NETCONF clients with user name user- instance-identifier list entry containing a configured sro-id o-ran- A NETCONF client with user name user-list entry containing a configured sro-id shall elements:processing- only have read privileges for those list entries where the o-ran-elements:processing- elements/o-ran- elements/o-ran-elements:ru-elements/o-ran-elements:sro-id leaf matches the sro- elements:ru-elements id of the NETCONF client. module o-ran:uplane-conf:x.y Restricted node- Refined privileges for "carrier" group for NETCONF clients with user name user- instance-identifier list entry containing a configured sro-id o-ran-uplane-conf:user- A NETCONF client with user name user-list entry containing a configured sro-id shall plane-configuration/o- only have read privileges for those list entries where the o-ran-uplane-conf:user- ran-uplane-conf:low- plane-configuration/o-ran-uplane-conf:low-level-tx-links/o-ran-uplane-conf:sro-id level-tx-links leaf-list includes the sro-id of the NETCONF client. o-ran-uplane-conf:user- A NETCONF client with user name user-list entry containing a configured sro-id shall plane-configuration/o- only have read privileges for those list entries where the o-ran-uplane-conf:user- ran-uplane-conf:low- plane-configuration/o-ran-uplane-conf:low-level-rx-links/o-ran-uplane-conf:sro-id level-rx-links leaf-list includes the sro-id of the NETCONF client. o-ran-uplane-conf:user- A NETCONF client with user name user-list entry containing a configured sro-id shall plane-configuration/o- only have read privileges for those list entries where the o-ran-uplane-conf:user- ran-uplane-conf:low- plane-configuration/o-ran-uplane-conf:low-level-tx-endpoints/o-ran-uplane- level-tx-endpoints conf:sro-id leaf-list includes the sro-id of the NETCONF client. o-ran-uplane-conf:user- A NETCONF client with user name user-list entry containing a configured sro-id shall plane-configuration/o- only have read privileges for those list entries where the o-ran-uplane-conf:user- ran-uplane-conf:low- plane-configuration/o-ran-uplane-conf:low-level-rx-endpoints/o-ran-uplane- level-rx-endpoints conf:sro-id leaf-list includes the sro-id of the NETCONF client. o-ran-uplane-conf:user- A NETCONF client with user name user-list entry containing a configured sro-id shall plane-configuration/o- only have read privileges for those list entries where the o-ran-uplane-conf:user- ran-uplane-conf:tx-array- plane-configuration/o-ran-uplane-conf:tx-array-carriers/o-ran-uplane-conf:sro-id carriers leaf-list includes the sro-id of the NETCONF client. o-ran-uplane-conf:user- A NETCONF client with user name user-list entry containing a configured sro-id shall plane-configuration/o- only have read privileges for those list entries where the o-ran-uplane-conf:user- ran-uplane-conf:rx-array- plane-configuration/o-ran-uplane-conf:rx-array-carriers/o-ran-uplane-conf:sro-id carriers leaf-list includes the sro-id of the NETCONF client. module o-ran:performance-management:x.y Restricted node- Refined privileges for "carrier" group for NETCONF clients with user name user- instance-identifier list entry containing a configured sro-id o-ran-pm:performance- A NETCONF client with user name user-list entry containing a configured sro-id shall measurement-objects/o- only have read privileges for those list entries where the o-ran-pm:performance- ran-pm:rx-window- measurement-objects/o-ran-pm:rx-window-measurement-objects/o-ran-pm:tr- measurement-objects measured-result/o-ran-pm:name leaf refers to an o-ran-elements:processing-elements/o-ran-elements:ru-elements list entry where the o-ran-elements:processing-elements/o-ran-elements:ru- elements/o-ran-elements:sro-id leaf represents the sro-id of the NETCONF client or where the o-ran-pm:performance-measurement-objects/o-ran-pm:rx-window- measurement-objects/o-ran-pm:eaxc-measured-result/o-ran-pm:eaxc-id leaf matches a value of eaxcid in the container o-ran-uplane-conf:user-plane- configuration/o-ran-uplane-conf:low-level-rx-endpoints/o-ran-uplane-conf:e-axcid where the sro-id in o-ran-uplane-conf:user-plane-configuration/o-ran-uplane- conf:low-level-rx-endpoints/o-ran-uplane-conf:sro-id matches the sro-id of the NETCONF client or where the o-ran-pm:performance-measurement-objects/o-ran- pm:rx-window-measurement-objects/o-ran-pm:eaxc-measured-result/o-ran- pm:eaxc-id leaf matches a value of eaxcid in the container o-ran-uplane-conf:user- plane-configuration/o-ran-uplane-conf:low-level-tx-endpoints/o-ran-uplane- conf:e-axcid where the sro-id in o-ran-uplane-conf:user-plane-configuration/o-ran- uplane-conf:low-level-tx-endpoints/o-ran-uplane-conf:sro-id matches the sro-id of the NETCONF client. o-ran-pm:performance- A NETCONF client with user name user-list entry containing a configured sro-id shall measurement-objects/o- only have read privileges for those list entries where the o-ran-pm:performance- ran-pm:tx-measurement- measurement-objects/o-ran-pm:tx-measurement-objects/o-ran-pm:tr-measured- objects result/o-ran-pm:name leaf refers to an o-ran-elements:processing-elements/o-ran-elements:ru-elements list entry where the o-ran-elements:processing-elements/o-ran-elements:ru- elements/o-ran-elements:sro-id leaf represents the sro-id of the NETCONF client or where the o-ran-pm:performance-measurement-objects/o-ran-pm:tx- measurement-objects/o-ran-pm:eaxc-measured-result/o-ran-pm:eaxc-id leaf matches a value of eaxcid in the container o-ran-uplane-conf:user-plane- configuration/o-ran-uplane-conf:low-level-rx-endpoints/o-ran-uplane-conf:e-axcid where the sro-id in o-ran-uplane-conf:user-plane-configuration/o-ran-uplane- conf:low-level-rx-endpoints/o-ran-uplane-conf:sro-id matches the sro-id of the NETCONF client or where the o-ran-pm:performance-measurement-objects/o-ran- pm:tx-measurement-objects/o-ran-pm:eaxc-measured-result/o-ran-pm:eaxc-id leaf matches a value of eaxcid in the container o-ran-uplane-conf:user-plane- configuration/o-ran-uplane-conf:low-level-tx-endpoints/o-ran-uplane-conf:e-axcid where the sro-id in o-ran-uplane-conf:user-plane-configuration/o-ran-uplane- conf:low-level-tx-endpoints/o-ran-uplane-conf:sro-id matches the sro-id of the NETCONF client.
> NOTE: The enhanced sro-id based NACM privileges in Table 19.3.3-3 do not limit the privileges of a
NETCONF client associated with an sro-id to read Rx and Tx performance management results when the object-unit-id is configured as RU. A Shared O-RU Host can exclude such value of object-unit-id from the configuration of the o-ran-performance-management YANG model to avoid enabling a first Shared Resource Operator from recovering aggregate O-RU level performance data that may include performance data related to the resources of a second Shared Resource Operator. module o-ran:message5:x.y Restricted node- Refined privileges for "carrier" group for NETCONF clients with user name user- instance-identifier list entry containing a configured sro-id o-ran-msg5:ecpri-delay- A NETCONF client with user name user-list entry containing a configured sro-id shall message/o-ran- only have read privileges those list entries where the o-ran-msg5:ecpri-delay- msg5:message5- message/o-ran-msg5:message5-sessions/o-ran-msg5:session-parameter/o-ran- sessions/o-ran- msg5:processing-element-name msg5:session- leaf refers to an o-ran-elements:processing-elements/o-ran-elements:ru-elements parameters list entry where the o-ran-elements:processing-elements/o-ran-elements:ru- elements/o-ran-elements:sro-id leaf represents the sro-id of the NETCONF client. module o-ran:shared-cell:x.y Restricted node- Refined privileges for "carrier" group for NETCONF clients with user name user- instance-identifier list entry containing a configured sro-id o-ran-sc:shared-cell/o- A NETCONF client with user name user-list entry containing a configured sro-id shall ran-sc:shared-cell- only have read privileges for those list entries where the o-ran-sc:shared-cell/o-ran- config/o-ran-sc:shared- sc:shared-cell-config/o-ran-sc:shared-cell-copy-entities/o-ran-sc:sro-id leaf-list cell-copy-entities includes the sro-id of the NETCONF client. o-ran-sc:shared-cell/o- A NETCONF client with user name user-list entry containing a configured sro-id shall ran-sc:shared-cell- only have read privileges for those list entries where the o-ran-sc:shared-cell/o-ran- config/o-ran-sc:shared- sc:shared-cell-config/o-ran-sc:shared-cell-combine-entities/o-ran-sc:sro-id leaf-list cell-combine-entities includes the sro-id of the NETCONF client. o-ran-sc:shared-cell/o- A NETCONF client with user name user-list entry containing a configured sro-id shall ran-sc:shared-cell- only have read privileges for those list entries where the o-ran-sc:shared-cell/o-ran- config/o-ran-sc:shared- sc:shared-cell-config/o-ran-sc:shared-cell-copy-entities-selective-beam-id /o-ran- cell-copy-entities- sc:sro-id leaf-list includes the sro-id of the NETCONF client. selective-beam-id o-ran-sc:shared-cell/o- A NETCONF client with user name user-list entry containing a configured sro-id shall ran-sc:shared-cell- only have read privileges for those list entries where the o-ran-sc:shared-cell/o-ran- config/o-ran-sc:shared- sc:shared-cell-config/o-ran-sc:shared-cell-combine-entities-for-selective-beam-id cell-combine-entities-for- /o-ran-sc:sro-id leaf-list includes the sro-id of the NETCONF client. selective-beam-id For example, if the Shared O-RU has been configured to operate with two Shared Resource Operators, sro-id "23415" and sro-id "23410", then when a NETCONF client of the first Shared Resource Operator attempts to read the processing element configuration of the shared O-RU it can receive a reply as shown Figure 19.3.3-1, where the O-DU of the first Shared Resource Operator has an Ethernet MAC-address of 11:95:a0:af:5f:b9 and VLAN 100 is being used for the control and user-plane traffic between the shared O-RU and the O-DU of the first Shared Resource Operator. <rpc-reply message-id="101" xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0"> <data> <processing-elements xmlns="urn:o-ran:processing-element:1.0"> <ru-elements> <name>element1</name> <sro-id>23415</sro-id> <transport-flow> <interface-name>10Geth0.100</interface-name> <eth-flow> <ru-mac-address>00:e0:fe:00:23:30</ru-mac-address> <vlan-id>100</vlan-id> <o-du-mac-address>11:95:a0:af:5f:b9</o-du-mac-address> </eth-flow> </transport-flow> <ru-elements> <processing-elements> </data> </rpc-reply> Conversely, if the NETCONF client of the second Shared Resource Operator attempts to read the processing element configuration it can receive a reply as shown in Figure 19.3.3-2, where the O-DU of the second Shared Resource Operator has an Ethernet MAC-address of 5a:2a:a7:61:98:f0 and VLAN 200 is being used for the control and user- plane traffic between the Shared O-RU and the O-DU of the second Shared Resource Operator. <rpc-reply message-id="101" xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0"> <data> <processing-elements xmlns="urn:o-ran:processing-element:1.0"> <ru-elements> <name>element2</name> <sro-id>23410</sro-id> <transport-flow> <interface-name>10Geth0.200</interface-name> <eth-flow> <ru-mac-address>00:e0:fe:00:23:30</ru-mac-address> <vlan-id>200</vlan-id> <o-du-mac-address>5a:2a:a7:61:98:f0</o-du-mac-address> </eth-flow> </transport-flow> <ru-elements> <processing-elements> </data> </rpc-reply> In addition to the enhanced read access privileges, the NETCONF server of the shared O-RU shall implement additional write access privileges for the following YANG model:
- urn:o-ran:uplane-conf:x.y
For the above model, the write privileges for specific node-instance-identifiers are refined based on the sro-id associated with the user account of the NETCONF client, as described in the Table 19.3.3-6. module o-ran:uplane-conf:x.y Restricted node-instance- Refined privileges for "carrier" group for NETCONF clients with user name identifier user-list entry containing a configured sro-id o-ran-uplane-conf:user-plane- The NETCONF client shall be prohibited from writing to this schema node for all configuration/o-ran-uplane- list entries. conf:low-level-tx-links/o-ran- uplane-conf:name o-ran-uplane-conf:user-plane- The NETCONF client shall be prohibited from writing to this schema node for all configuration/o-ran-uplane- list entries. conf:low-level-tx-links/o-ran- uplane-conf:sro-id o-ran-uplane-conf:user-plane- A NETCONF client with user name user-list entry containing a configured sro-id configuration/o-ran-uplane- shall be prohibited from creating list entries. A NETCONF client with user name conf:low-level-tx-links user-list entry containing a configured sro-id shall only have write privileges to enable updating of those list entries where the o-ran-uplane-conf:user-plane- configuration/o-ran-uplane-conf:low-level-tx-links/o-ran-uplane-conf:sro-id leaf-list includes the sro-id of the NETCONF client. o-ran-uplane-conf:user-plane- The NETCONF client shall be prohibited from writing to this schema node for all configuration/o-ran-uplane- list entries. conf:low-level-rx-links/o-ran- uplane-conf:name o-ran-uplane-conf:user-plane- The NETCONF client shall be prohibited from writing to this schema node for all configuration/o-ran-uplane- list entries. conf:low-level-rx-links/o-ran- uplane-conf:sro-id o-ran-uplane-conf:user-plane- A NETCONF client with user name user-list entry containing a configured sro-id configuration/o-ran-uplane- shall be prohibited from creating list entries. A NETCONF client with user name conf:low-level-rx-links user-list entry containing a configured sro-id id shall only have write privileges to enable updating of those list entries where the o-ran-uplane-conf:user-plane- configuration/o-ran-uplane-conf:low-level-rx-links/o-ran-uplane-conf:sro-id leaf-list includes the sro-id of the NETCONF client. o-ran-uplane-conf:user-plane- The NETCONF client shall be prohibited from writing to this schema node for all configuration/o-ran-uplane- list entries. conf:low-level-tx-endpoints/o- ran-uplane-conf:sro-id o-ran-uplane-conf:user-plane- A NETCONF client with user name user-list entry containing a configured sro-id configuration/o-ran-uplane- shall be prohibited from creating list entries. A NETCONF client with user name conf:low-level-tx-endpoints user-list entry containing a configured sro-id id shall only have write privileges to enable updating of those list entries where the o-ran-uplane-conf:user-plane- configuration/o-ran-uplane-conf:low-level-tx-endpoints/o-ran-uplane- conf:sro-id leaf-list includes the sro-id of the NETCONF client. o-ran-uplane-conf:user-plane- The NETCONF client shall be prohibited from writing to this schema node for all configuration/o-ran-uplane- list entries. conf:low-level-rx-endpoints/o- ran-uplane-conf:sro-id o-ran-uplane-conf:user-plane- A NETCONF client with user name user-list entry containing a configured sro-id configuration/o-ran-uplane- shall be prohibited from creating list entries. A NETCONF client with user name conf:low-level-rx-endpoints user-list entry containing a configured sro-id id shall only have write privileges to enable updating of those list entries where the o-ran-uplane-conf:user-plane- configuration/o-ran-uplane-conf:low-level-rx-endpoints/o-ran-uplane- conf:sro-id leaf-list includes the sro-id of the NETCONF client. module o-ran:uplane-conf:x.y (continued) Restricted node-instance- Refined privileges for "carrier" group for NETCONF clients with user name identifier user-list entry containing a configured sro-id o-ran-uplane-conf:user-plane- The NETCONF client shall be prohibited from writing to this schema node for all configuration/o-ran-uplane- list entries. conf:tx-array-carriers/o-ran- uplane-conf:sro-id o-ran-uplane-conf:user-plane- A NETCONF client with user name user-list entry containing a configured sro-id configuration/o-ran-uplane- shall be prohibited from creating list entries. A NETCONF client with user name conf:tx-array-carriers user-list entry containing a configured sro-id id shall only have write privileges to enable updating of those list entries where the o-ran-uplane-conf:user-plane- configuration/o-ran-uplane-conf:tx-array-carriers/o-ran-uplane-conf:sro-id leaf-list includes the sro-id of the NETCONF client. o-ran-uplane-conf:user-plane- The NETCONF client shall be prohibited from writing to this schema node for all configuration/o-ran-uplane- list entries. conf:rx-array-carriers/o-ran- uplane-conf:sro-id o-ran-uplane-conf:user-plane- A NETCONF client with user name user-list entry containing a configured sro-id configuration/o-ran-uplane- shall be prohibited from creating list entries. A NETCONF client with user name conf:rx-array-carriers user-list entry containing a configured sro-id id shall only have write privileges to enable updating of those list entries where the o-ran-uplane-conf:user-plane- configuration/o-ran-uplane-conf:rx-array-carriers/o-ran-uplane-conf:sro-id leaf-list includes the sro-id of the NETCONF client.

### 19.3.4 Supervision monitoring between shared O-RU and shared resource
operator O-DUs An O-RU Controller associated with a Shared Resource Operator shall use the per O-DU monitoring capability specified in clause 14.1.1. The Shared O-RU Host shall configure the per-odu-monitoring container in o-ran- supervision YANG model with the sro-id and odu-id values agreed to be used by the Shared Resource Operator.

## 19.4 Shared O-RU interface management

### 19.4.1 VLAN and IP address management
The procedures defined in clauses 7.3 and 7.4 are used by the Shared O-RU Host to manage the VLAN and IP address configuration of the shared O-RU.

### 19.4.2 Processing element configuration
The procedures defined in clause 7.5 are used by the Shared O-RU Host to configure the processing elements in the shared O-RU. The optional sro-id leaf shall be used by the Shared O-RU Host to configure a particular ru-element list entry as being uniquely associated with a particular Shared Resource Operator.
> NOTE 1: How the Shared O-RU Host becomes aware of information to identify the remote CU-Plane endpoints
corresponding to the address(es) used by individual Shared Resource Operator O-DUs for control and user-plane traffic and included in the configuration of an ru-element list entry is out of scope of the present document. The Shared Resource Operator O-DU needs to become aware of the local endpoint(s) in the O-RU configured for use in processing element(s) used by a particular Shared Resource Operator. One approach for the Shared Resource Operator O-DU to become aware of such information is for the NETCONF client of the Shared Resource Operator O-DU to subscribe to receive notifications due to updates of the O-RU's configuration datastore, using the techniques described in clause 6.4.
> NOTE 2: Any other approaches by with the operator of a Shared Resource Operator O-DU becomes aware of
information related to the configured processing elements is out of scope of the present document.

### 19.4.3 Shared resource operator O-DU verification of C/U-Plane transport
connectivity The procedures defined in clause 7.6 are used by the Shared O-RU Host to configure the operation of C/U plane transport connectivity checks. These checks are able to be simultaneously performed between the individual Shared Resource Operator O-DUs and the shared O-RU. A Shared Resource Operator O-DU is able to recover details of the configured Maintenance End Point (MEP) and other necessary information on the Shared O-RU by reading the configuration associated with the o-ran-lbm YANG model.

## 19.5 Shared O-RU C/U-Plane delay management

### 19.5.1 Adaptive delay operation with shared O-RU
Clause 14.2 of [2] specifies that the Shared O-RU Host configures shared O-RU aspects related to delay management. When a shared O-RU indicates that it supports the optional ADAPTIVE-RU-PROFILE feature, the Shared O-RU Host can decide not to employ such a feature. If the Shared O-RU Host decides to use the ADAPTIVE-RU-PROFILE feature, the Shared O-RU Host shall be responsible for configuring the adaptive-delay-configuration container.
> NOTE 1: How the Shared O-RU Host determines the parameters to use in the o-du-delay-profile container and/or
the transport-delay container is out of scope of the present document.
> NOTE 2: Operation of the optional O-RU adaptive delay capability defined in clause 7.8 requires carriers to be
disabled prior to the O-RU adapting its delay profile. If used by the Shared O-RU Host, how the shared O-RU host co-ordinates disablement of carriers amongst the Shared Resource Operators is out of scope of the present document.

### 19.5.2 Measuring transport delay parameters with Shared O-RU
As defined in clause 7.9, an O-RU that supports the optional eCPRI based delay measurement capability shall be able to support simultaneous operation of delay measurements over any configured processing element. Where these processing elements correspond to remote endpoints from different Shared Resource Operator O-DUs, the operation of eCPRI delay measurements will allow each Shared Resource Operator O-DU to recover the necessary timing compensation information from the O-RU.

## 19.6 Shared O-RU configuration management

### 19.6.1 Carrier configuration of the shared O-RU
The "carrier" NACM privileges defined in clauses 6.5 and 19.3.3 prevent a NETCONF client with "carrier" privileges, and whose user account is configured with an sro-id, from creating particular named list entries for the following lists:
- o-ran-uplane-conf:user-plane-configuration/o-ran-uplane-conf:low-level-tx-links
- o-ran-uplane-conf:user-plane-configuration/o-ran-uplane-conf:low-level-rx-links
- o-ran-uplane-conf:user-plane-configuration/o-ran-uplane-conf:low-level-tx-endpoints
- o-ran-uplane-conf:user-plane-configuration/o-ran-uplane-conf:low-level-rx-endpoints
- o-ran-uplane-conf:user-plane-configuration/o-ran-uplane-conf:tx-array-carriers
- o-ran-uplane-conf:user-plane-configuration/o-ran-uplane-conf:rx-array-carriers

# A NETCONF client with "carrier" privileges and whose user account is configured with an sro-id shall only be
permitted to update list entries after the list entry has been created and configured with a sro-id associated with the Shared Resource Operator.

### 19.6.2 Notification of configuration updates to shared resource operators
All Multi-Operator O-RUs shall support the Notification of Updates to its Configuration Datastore functionality, as described in clause 9.4. Hence, any Shared Resource Operator may configure subscriptions to receive notifications of modifications to a shared O-RU's datastore, according to the defined NETCONF access control privileges for NETCONF client of the Shared Resource Operator. In particular, such an approach can be used by a Shared Resource Operator to determine when the shared O-RU host has configured o-ran-uplane-conf list entries which include the Shared Resource Operator's sro-id.

## 19.7 Shared O-RU performance management
The NETCONF client of a Shared Resource Operator is identified by using a user list entry in o-ran-usermgmt YANG model that contains a configured sro-id. Such a NETCONF client shall have restricted access privileges to the o-ran- performance-management YANG model as described in clause 19.3.3. An O-RU supporting the SHARED-ORU-MULTI-OPERATOR feature should support the GRANULARITY- TRANSPORT-MEASUREMENT and/or the GRANULARITY-EAXC-ID-MEASUREMENT features. These allow the O-RU to report rx-window-measurement-objects on a per ru-element and/or eaxcid basis, meaning window measurements pertain to the transport flows and/or eaxcids associated with a particular Shared Resource Operator.

# A Shared O-RU Host can configure multiple remote-file-uploads list entries corresponding to the individual file
servers of different Shared Resource Operators. However, there is currently no role-based access control applied to file management based performance management reporting, as specified in clause 10.3.2. If access to configured measurement results needs to be controlled on a per Shared Resource Operator basis, file management based performance management should not be used.

## 19.8 Shared O-RU fault management
There is no role-based access control applied to O-RU fault management. Any NETCONF client, including those corresponding to Shared Resource Operator NETCONF client, are able to recover the active-alarm-list from the shared O-RU and are able to subscribe to receive notifications of future alarms as described in clause 11.

## 19.9 Synchronisation aspects of shared O-RU
Clause 14.3 of [2] specifies the synchronisation aspects of shared O-RU. Each individual Shared Resource Operator should subscribe to receive the notifications defined in the o-ran-sync YANG model.

## 19.10 Co-ordinating service impacting procedures

### 19.10.1 Reset operation
The various procedures required to be performed by Shared O-RU Host may necessitate performing reset of the shared O-RU. The Shared O-RU Host should co-ordinate such procedures with the individual Shared Resource Operators.
> NOTE: How the Shared O-RU Host performs such co-ordination is out of scope of the present document.

### 19.10.2 Locked administrative state
The Shared O-RU Host can configure the admin-state of the shared O-RU which permits the Shared O-RU Host to set the admin-state to locked. The Shared O-RU Host should co-ordinate any changes to the admin-state of the shared O- RU with the individual Shared Resource Operators.
> NOTE: How the Shared O-RU Host performs such co-ordination is out of scope of the present document.

### 19.10.3 Antenna calibration
When the shared O-RU supports antenna calibration, the Shared O-RU Host shall be responsible for co-ordinating the operation of the antenna calibration procedure with individual Shared Resource Operators.
> NOTE: How the Shared O-RU Host performs such co-ordination is out of scope of the present document.

## 19.11 Partitioning of shared O-RU carrier resources

### 19.11.1 Partitioning of Shared O-RU advertised resources
O-RU capabilities as a whole shall be advertised by the O-RU (e.g. parameters defined in o-ran-module-cap.yang, o- ran-beamforming.yang) at start-up to each SRO and Shared O-RU Host. Hence, each SRO sharing the O-RU shall be aware of complete O-RU resources. These O-RU resources shall be partitioned between multiple SROs based on pre- defined agreement (outside the scope of WG4). Each SRO is expected to configure and use it's partitioned O-RU resources so that the maximum O-RU capacity is not exceeded. To clarify this with an example, value of parameters 'max-gain' and 'min-gain' in o-ran-uplane-conf YANG model, shall not be exceeded when multiple SROs use the same tx-array for the carriers configured by each of them.

### 19.11.2 Partitioning of eAxC identities
The eAxC-IDs shall be unique within the shared O-RU in the same direction (Tx or Rx) even across different processing elements that may correspond to connection to different Shared Resource Operators. The Shared O-RU Host partitions the eAxC-IDs between different Shared Resource Operators.
> NOTE: How the Shared O-RU Host decides on the eAxC-ID partitioning policy and how the partition policy
information is signalled to the respective Shared Resource Operators is out of scope of the present document. The procedures described in clause 19.6.2 can be used by the Shared O-RU Host to confirm whether a Shared Resource Operator is adhering to the eAxC-ID partitioning policy.

### 19.11.3 Partitioning of links, endpoints and array carriers
The Shared O-RU Host creates the list entries for low-level-tx-links, low-level-rx-links, low-level-tx-endpoints, low- level-rx-endpoints, tx-array-carriers and rx-array-carriers, including unique configured name and one or more configured sro-id. The sro-id is used to partition links and array carriers between separate Shared Resource Operators.

### 19.11.4 Partitioning of static endpoints
The Shared O-RU Host allocates static-low-level-rx-endpoints and static-low-level-tx-endpoints to individual Shared Resource Operators. This allocation may take into account Shared Resource Operator requirements related to static configuration for PRACH and SRS as well as TDD pattern configuration. To allocate a static-low-level-tx-endpoint to a Shared Resource Operator, the Shared O-RU Host shall configure the low-level-tx-endpoints list entry with the name of the static-low-level-tx-endpoint and the sro-id of the Shared Resource Operator. To allocate a static-low-level-rx- endpoint to a Shared Resource Operator, the Shared O-RU Host shall configure a low-level-rx-endpoints list entry with the name of the static-low-level-rx-endpoint and the sro-id of the Shared Resource Operator. The procedures described in clause 19.6.2 can be used by the Shared O-RU Host to confirm whether a Shared Resource Operator is adhering to the static endpoint partitioning policy.

### 19.11.5 Shared O-RU beamforming configuration
When the shared O-RU supports the o-ran-beamforming YANG model, the allocation of array carrier resources and band configuration to individual Shared Resource Operators will refer to any corresponding static beamforming configuration of the shared O-RU. In this version of the specification, the operation of a shared O-RU with rt-bf-weights-update-support set to true is not defined.

### 19.11.6 Shared O-RU with antenna line devices
When the shared O-RU is connected to one or more antenna line devices as described in clause 14.4, the shared O-RU host shall be responsible for the operation of the antenna line devices.
> NOTE 1: How the details of the configuration of the one or more antenna line devices are shared with the
respective Shared Resource Operators is out of scope of the present document. The Shared O-RU Host may be required to co-ordinate antenna line operations with the different Shared Resource Operators, e.g. remote electrical tilt.
> NOTE 2: How the Shared O-RU Host coordinates such operations is out of scope of the present document.

## 19.12 Example shared O-RU carrier configuration and operation
procedure An example procedure for configuring a shared O-RU is as follows: 1) The Shared O-RU Host is assigned "sudo" privileges. The Shared O-RU Host allocates an sro-id to the Shared Resource Operator and creates account(s) for the Shared Resource Operator's NETCONF client(s) on the O- RU's NETCONF server which includes the sro-id. The Shared O-RU Host communicates the account information to the Shared Resource Operator. Optionally, the Shared O-RU Host can subscribe to be notified of updates to the O-RU's configuration datastore, using the techniques specified in clause 9.4 2) The Shared O-RU Host configures the list of ru-elements for the Shared Resource Operator based on agreed O-DU transport identifiers. Each such element has the corresponding sro-id parameter set to the value allocated to the Shared Resource Operator.
> NOTE 1: How the Shared O-RU Host becomes aware of information to identify the remote CU-Plane endpoints
corresponding to the address(es) used by individual Shared Resource Operator O-DUs for control and user-plane traffic and included in the configuration of an ru-element list entry is out of scope of the present document. 3) The Shared O-RU Host creates the tx-array-carriers and rx-array-carriers list entries in relation to the agreed tx-arrays and rx-arrays for use by the Shared Resource Operator. Each of the list entries will have the corresponding sro-id allocated to the Shared Resource Operator configured in the list of sro-ids associated with the array carriers.
> NOTE 2: Configuring the tx-array-carriers and rx-array carriers list entries includes mandatory leaves which
are specific to the Shared Resource Operator's configuration. The Shared O-RU Host can agree with the Shared Resource Operator how it will configure any mandatory parameters in its initial list configuration. 4) The Shared O-RU Host creates low-level-tx-endpoints and low-level-rx-endpoints related to agreed partitioned static-low-level-tx endpoints and static-low-level-rx-endpoints respectively. Each of the list entries will have the corresponding sro-id allocated to the Shared Resource Operator configured in the list of sro-ids associated with the endpoints.
> NOTE 3: Configuring the low-level-tx-endpoints and low-level-rx-endpoints list entries includes mandatory
leaves which are specific to the Shared Resource Operator's configuration. The Shared O-RU Host can agree with the Shared Resource Operator how it will configure any mandatory parameters in its initial configuration.
> NOTE 4: The Shared O-RU Host and the Shared Resource Operator can agree how information describing the list
entries created in steps 2, 3 and 4 are to be shared. In one example, information is shared out of band between the two operators. In a second example, the operators can agree that the Shared Resource Operator will use a GET RPC to read the list entries configured by the Shared O-RU Host. Using this second approach, the NACM privileges ensure that the Shared Resource Operator only has permissions to read list entries that have been configured with its sro-id. 5) The Shared Resource Operator enters the pre-configured list entry information into its management systems. 6) The Shared O-RU Host configures the configured-client-info container with IP address(es) of the NETCONF client(s) used by the Shared Resource Operator. This triggers the shared O-RU to call home to the configured client. The Shared Resource Operator uses the shared account information to establish a NETCONF session to the shared O-RU. 7) The Shared Resource Operator uses the NETCONF session to complete the configuration of the relevant o- ran-uplane-conf defined list entries for tx-array-carriers, rx-array-carriers, low-level-tx-endpoints and low-level-rx-endpoints. As the list entries are all configured with the sro-id of the Shared Resource Operator, then the NACM privileges described in clause 19.3.3 permit the Shared Resource Operator to over-write the initial mandatory parameters configured by the Shared O-RU Host with its required operational values. If the Shared O-RU Host subscribed to be notified of modifications to the O-RU’s configuration store in step 1, then the Shared O-RU Host will be automatically notified of the committed changes to the shared O-RU’s configuration by the Shared Resource Operator. 8) The Shared O-RU Host can read the modified configuration of the shared O-RU and the information used to determine whether the configuration by the Shared Resource Operator adheres to pre-agreed sharing policies.
> NOTE 5: How to determine whether the configuration adheres to a pre-agreed policy as well as any response
triggered by determining that a configuration does not adhere to a pre-agreed policy are not defined in the present document. With the above steps successfully performed, the relationship between C/U-Plane application endpoints at Shared Resource Operator's O-DU and shared O-RU is configured. 9) The Shared O-RU Host and Shared Resource Operator can subscribe to receive notifications of O-RU alarms. 10) The Shared O-RU Host configures the performance measurements performed by the shared O-RU.
> NOTE 6: The Shared O-RU Host and the Shared Resource Operator can agree how information describing the
configured performance measurements are to be shared. In one example, information is shared out of band between the two operators. In a second example, the operators can agree that the Shared Resource Operator will use a GET RPC to read the performance management configuration. Using this second approach, the NACM privileges ensure that the Shared Resource Operator only has permissions to read performance management configuration associated with the ru-elements list entries and/or exacid values associated with the Shared Resource Operator's sro-id. 11) The Shared Resource Operator can subscribe to receive notifications related to the shared O-RU's performance management counters. The NACM privileges defined in clause 19.3.3 restricts the Shared Resource Operator to only be able to recover measurements associated with the ru-elements list entries and/or exacid values associated with the Shared Resource Operator's sro-id. 12) The Shared Resource Operator performs carrier activation by setting the value of the parameter "active" at tx- array-carrier element / rx-array-carrier element to "ACTIVE" for those list entries configured with the sro-id of the Shared Resource Operator. 13) The Shared Resource Operator performs shared resource operator supervision as specified in clause 19.3.4. If an O-RU enters shared resource supervision failure, then as described in clause 19.3.4, the shared O-RU will notification indicating that it has lost SRO based supervision.

## 19.13 Shared O-RU and LAA operation
Operation of M-Plane procedures as specified in clause 16 by a Shared Resource Operator using a NETCONF account with "carrier" privileges is not defined in the present document.
> NOTE: This does not prevent the Shared O-RU Host from configuring LAA operation to operate in combination
with its own component carriers.

## 19.14 Shared O-RU operation in combination with shared cell
Operation of M-plane procedures as specified in clause 17 by a Shared Resource Operator using a NETCONF account with "carrier" privileges is restricted based on the sro-id configured in the user-list entry for the NETCONF account. A shared O-RU that indicates it supports the o-ran-shared-cell model in its YANG library shall support the partitioning of copy and combine entities on an sro-id basis and limit read access to those list-entries where the configured sro-id matches that of the NETCONF account, as specified in clause 19.3.3. The present document further restricts all write access to the shared-cell YANG model from NETCONF accounts with user name user-list entry containing a configured sro-id and "carrier" privileges. As a consequence, the Shared O-RU Host shall be responsible for configuring shared cell copy and combine parameters on behalf of each Shared Resource Operator.
> NOTE: How the Shared O-RU Host co-ordinates the configuration of copy and combine parameters between one
or more Shared Resource Operators is outside the scope of the present document.

## 19.15 Certificate and trust anchor management
For mTLS, both the client and the server need to have access to a trust anchor to verify the peer.
> NOTE : It is the responsibility of the Shared Resource Operator and Shared O-RU Host to develop Trust Anchor
management processes. Such processes are outside the scope of the present document. As explained in clause 6.2.6.0, a shared O-RU needs to be able to trace the peer's certificate path to a valid trust anchor. Also, the peer needs to be able to trace the shared O-RU's certificate path to a valid trust anchor. Peers of a shared O- RU include O-RU controllers operated by either the Shared O-RU Host or a Shared Resource Operator (SRO). In order to achieve mutual authentication:
- The shared O-RU shall be enrolled with the Shared O-RU Host PKI as defined in clause 6.2.6.1 and enable
new trust anchors to be provisioned as defined in clause 6.2.6.0.
- An O-RU controller operated by the Shared O-RU Host should be enrolled with the Shared O-RU Host PKI
and be provided with the trust anchor of the Shared O-RU Host PKI
- An O-RU controller owned by an SRO should be enrolled with that SRO's PKI and provide capabilities to be
provisioned with new trust anchors. This allows a Shared O-RU Host to install the trust anchor(s) corresponding to SRO PKI(s) involved in the shared O- RU operation. This enables the O-RU to authenticate the O-RU controllers of all SROs and also allows all SROs involved in shared O-RU operation to install the trust anchor of the Shared O-RU Host PKI, enabling the O-RU controllers to authenticate the shared O-RU.

# 20 Network energy saving

## 20.1 Introduction
This clause describes the requirements and scope of energy savings techniques relevant to the lower layer split M-Plane interface. The following techniques are optionally supported by O-RUs to implement energy savings:
- Carrier deactivation.
- RF channel switch off/on (C-Plane controlled and M-Plane controlled).
- Advanced sleep modes.
- Deep hibernate.
- Max output power control.

## 20.2 Carrier deactivation for energy saving

### 20.2.1 High level principle of carrier deactivation for energy saving
This clause provides basic description of how an O-RU's carrier can be deactivated to achieve the energy savings within an O-RU. In order to achieve the energy saving, NETCONF Client uses the existing parameter [tr]x-array-carrier::active to specific carrier. This causes the parameter [tr]x-array-carrier::state transition to DISABLED (can go through BUSY). In a result, power consumption of O-RU is reduced because O-RU does not need to process C-Plane and U-plane traffic. Additionally, when [tr]x-array-carriers are inactive and when energy-saving-enabled is set to true, the O-RU may turn off circuitry associated with carrier processing to further reduce power consumption.
> NOTE 1: The actual reduced value of power consumption depends on the O-RU's implementation.
> NOTE 2: Prior to version 14 of the present document, the O-RU operation when active is set to SLEEP was not
defined. Clause 15.3.2 now defines O-RU operation for such cases.
> NOTE 3: For details about how parameters energy-saving-enabled and [tr]x-array-carrier::active interact - see
clause 9.1.3 "Modify state".

### 20.2.2 Synchronisation aspects for carrier deactivation for energy saving
When power-state of o-ran-hardware is SLEEPING, C/U/S functions on O-RU may be stopped to reduce energy consumption. If O-RU stops S-plane function, a certain period which depends on the O-RU implementation will be required to make carrier activation again. NETCONF client should set energy-saving-enabled to FALSE to ensure O- RU is ready to immediately activate a carrier.

## 20.3 RF channel switch off/on for energy saving

### 20.3.1 TRX control – C-Plane controlled

#### 20.3.1.1 Introduction
TRX control via C-Plane messages is used to achieve energy saving through disabling one or more O-RU array elements for a defined or undefined period of time. For example, an O-DU can switch off 32 out of 64 array elements of a massive MIMO antenna array. The TRX control capability is described below.

#### 20.3.1.2 TRX control module capabilities
The O-RU exposes the capability to support energy saving through disabling some or all of the O-RU's array elements by including support of the feature TRX-CONTROL in its o-ran-wg4-features.yang YANG module. If the feature is supported, then an O-RU controller can use the NETCONF session to recover the associated O-RU TRX control capability information and parameters. These capability attributes are defined for each [tr]x-arrays. These capabilities can be recovered by an O-RU controller at the O-RU start up as part of the o-ran-uplane-conf.yang YANG module operations. The attributes are: 1) trx-control-capability-info: A container in o-ran-uplane-conf.yang YANG module with capabilities that are specific to TRX Control for each [tr]x-arrays. The parameters in the container include the following:
- supported-trx-control-masks: A list of TRX control configurations that are supported by the O-RU
which are reported with their corresponding mask-name and antenna-mask values. Refer to the O-RAN CUS plane specification [2], clause 16.2 for more details on the usage of antenna masks. The absence of the list supported-trx-control-masks indicates that any combination of antenna mask is supported by the O-RU for a particular [tr]x-array.
- sleep-mode-type: This value indicates the sleep modes supported by the O-RU for a particular [tr]x-
array as specified in the O-RAN CUS plane specification [2], Table 16.1-1.
- wake-up-duration: This value indicates the reported wake-up time (in microseconds) for each
individual sleep mode for the TRX(s) corresponding to a particular [tr]x-array. The O-DU can convert the wake-up duration in microseconds to the respective number of slots based on the SCS(s) supported by the O-RU (for more details, refer to O-RAN CUS plane specification [2], clause 16.1).
- wake-up-duration-guaranteed: The capability of the O-RU to guarantee the complete wake-up
operation or to become active within the duration reported in wake-up-duration. The guaranteed wake- up time indicate a wake-up duration that is invariant to any O-RU condition. This field shall be reported as "FALSE" if the O-RU cannot assure the wake-up time, in which case the value reported in wake-up- duration is considered as the minimum wake-up duration. For sleep-mode-type reported as "SLEEP_MODE_0", the wake-up-duration-guaranteed shall be reported as "TRUE". Refer to the O- RAN CUS plane specification [2], clause 16.6 for more details on the differences between guaranteed and minimum wake-up durations.
- defined-duration-sleep-supported: The capability of the O-RU to support the defined sleep
functionality as specified in O-RAN CUS plane specification [2], clause 16.4.
- undefined-duration-sleep-supported: The capability of the O-RU to support the un-defined sleep
functionality as specified in O-RAN CUS plane specification [2], clause 16.5. 2) energy-saving-capability-common-info: A container in o-ran-module.cap.yang YANG module used to expose the O-RU capabilities common to both TRX control and advanced sleep modes. The parameters in the container include the following:
- ST8-ready-message-supported: The capability of the O-RU to support the "ready" message via Section
Type 8 command. This message is used to indicate the O-RU readiness after waking up from a commanded sleep mode having a non-guaranteed wake-up time. Refer to the O-RAN CUS plane specification [2], clauses 7.5.3.55 and 16.6.2 for more details on the ST8 ready command.
- sleep-duration-extension-supported: The capability of the O-RU to support the extension of a defined
sleep interval. Refer to the O-RAN CUS plane specification [2], clause 16.8 for more details on the sleep extension.
- emergency-wake-up-command-supported: The capability of the O-RU to support emergency wake-up
procedure. Refer to the clause 20.3.1.3 for more details on the emergency wake-up procedure.

#### 20.3.1.3 Emergency wake-up procedure for TRX control
This clause describes the optional capability by which the O-RU's CU plane processing units and/or array elements and/or other components that were put to sleep by a TRX Control command (or ASM command) can be woken up by the NETCONF client as specified in O-RAN CUS plane specification [2], clause 16.11. The O-RU exposes this ability to support emergency wake-up by including the leaf emergency-wake-up-command-supported in o-ran-module- cap.yang YANG module.

# A NETCONF client can send a <emergency-wake-up> RPC in order to wake-up the O-RU's CU plane processing units
and/or array elements and/or other components that have been put to sleep by a TRX Control command as illustrated in In the case of Shared O-RU (O-RUs that support the SHARED-ORU-MULTI-OPERATOR feature), only the Shared O-RU Host can send a <emergency-wake-up> RPC which may include one or more optional sro-ids. Therefore, only the CU plane processing units and/or array elements that are specific to the O-DU that is associated with the received sro-id are woken-up. If sro-id is not included in the RPC, the O-RU shall wake-up all the CU plane processing units and/or array elements irrespective of the O-DU. Subsequently, a notification shall be sent by the O-RU to all subscribed O-DUs when the emergency wake-up procedure is complete, after which the O-DUs may activate carriers (if needed) and then operate the C-Plane and U- Plane to support user traffic. In the case of Shared O-RU (O-RUs that support the SHARED-ORU-MULTI- OPERATOR feature), separate notification shall be sent for each sro-id received in the RPC.

#### 20.3.1.4 Interaction with M-Plane processing
An O-RU supporting RF channel switch off/on for energy saving shall be able to disable C/U plane monitoring (see clause 7.10). For example, an O-RU may support the cu-plane-monitoring container in its o-ran-supervision.yang model, allowing an O-DU to disable C/U plane monitoring operation. Operation of other M-plane procedures, including measuring of transport delay (clause 7.9), C/U plane transport connectivity verification (clause 7.6) and O-RU synchronisation (clause 13) shall not be affected by network energy savings functionality.

### 20.3.2 TRX control – M-Plane controlled

#### 20.3.2.1 Introduction
TRX control via M-Plane messages is used to achieve energy saving through disabling one or more O-RU array elements for an undefined period of time (until a next command is received). For example, an O-DU can switch off 32 out of 64 array elements of a massive MIMO antenna array. The TRX control capability and configuration are described in clauses 20.3.2.2 and 20.3.2.3.
> NOTE: Clause 15.3.2 specifies another set of conditions allowing O-RU to save energy by disabling array
elements.

#### 20.3.2.2 TRX control capability
The O-RU exposes the capability to support energy saving through disabling some or all of the O-RU’s antenna array elements by including support of the feature MPLANE-TRX-CONTROL in its o-ran-wg4-features.yang YANG module. If the feature is supported, then an O-RU controller can use the NETCONF session to recover the associated O- RU TRX control capability information and parameters. These capability attributes are defined for each [tr]x-arrays. These capabilities can be recovered by an O-RU controller at the O-RU start up as part of the o-ran-uplane-conf.yang YANG module operations. The attributes are: 1) mplane-trx-control-txarr-capability-info: A container in o-ran-uplane-conf.yang YANG module with capabilities that are specific to TRX Control for each tx-arrays. The parameters in the container include the following:
- mplane-trx-control-supp-antenna-masks: A grouping which contains the list mplane-supported-trx-
control-masks, which is a list of TRX control configurations that are supported by the O-RU which are reported with their corresponding antenna-mask values. Refer to the O-RAN CUS plane specification [2], clause 16.2 for more details on the usage of antenna masks. The absence of the list mplane- supported-trx-control-masks indicates that any combination of antenna mask is supported by the O-RU for a particular [tr]x-array. If an antenna mask list is present, an all-ones antenna mask shall be included in the list to assure all array elements can be turned on.
> NOTE: If the mplane-supported-trx-control-masks contains a single all-ones antenna mask, that means the
only valid antenna mask to configure is all array elements activated, meaning the TRX Control capability is not present. 2) mplane-trx-control-rxarr-capability-info: A container in o-ran-uplane-conf.yang YANG module with capabilities that are specific to TRX Control for each rx-array. The parameters in the container include the following:
- mplane-trx-control-supp-antenna-masks: Same as this parameter description within mplane-trx-
control-txarr-capability-info above.

#### 20.3.2.3 TRX control configuration
To support [tr]x-array level O-DU controlled antenna array configuration, new O-RU level node array-config-group is introduced. For M-Plane TRX control the node contains two lists tx-array-antenna-mask-config and rx-array- antenna-mask-config, one each for specifying tx-array and rx-array configuration for TRX control respectively. The list is indexed using array-name and contains parameters antenna-bitmask and antenna-bitmask-index. These two parameters per tx-array and rx-array list entry may be used by the O-RU controller to perform TRX Control. It is problematic if TRX Control commands are issued for sub-arrays of a larger array due to the potential interaction of multiple TRX Control commands affecting the same array elements which are part of multiple [tr]x-arrays. Therefore, the antenna mask configuration shall be done for the largest tx or rx array that is advertised by the O-RU, not for the tx- array or rx-array which is a subset of the largest array (multiple non-overlapping largest arrays are possible). The effect of the configuration command shall be to impact the largest array (whether that largest array has any carriers assigned to it or not). For the case where the O-RU advertises mplane-supported-trx-control-masks list, RPC edit-config shall be used to configure a specific antenna mask value by specifying a given antenna-bitmask-index for the [tr]x-array using the YANG parameter [tr]x-array-antenna-mask-config . EXAMPLE 1: configuration of a given 32-bit tx antenna mask by specifying the antenna-index: <tx-array-antenna-mask-config> <array-name> tx-array-1 </array-name> <antenna-bitmask-index> 1 </antenna-bitmask-index> </tx-array-antenna-mask-config> For the case where the O-RU does not advertise mplane-supported-trx-control-masks list for a given [tr]x-array, the RPC edit-config shall be used to configure a specific antenna-bitmask value for the [tr]x-array using the YANG parameter [tr]x-array-antenna-mask-config . EXAMPLE 2: configuration of a 32-bit tx antenna mask is shown below: <tx-array-antenna-mask-config> <array-name> tx-array-1 </array-name> <antenna-bitmask >11111111000000000000000011111111</antenna-bitmask > </tx-array-antenna-mask-config>
> NOTE: Binary values are encoded with a base-64 encoding (see reference [4]) so the above mask would actually
be represented as "/wAA/w==". Prior to any M-Plane TRX Control antenna mask or associated antenna index being configured, the value of the antenna mask shall be considered to be all-ones, meaning all array-elements are enabled. Because updating an antenna mask via M-Plane is an asynchronous operation, the O-RU shall notify all notification subscribers that the [tr]x-array specific commanded mask or antenna mask index has been implemented, using the mplane-trx-control-ant-mask-update notification, as detailed in the Figure 20.3.2.3-1. To reduce unexpected transient related to the turning-off process, the O-DU may send zero-value beamforming weights for any array element to be turned off prior to issuing the edit-config command turning off any array-elements, and may keep them at zero-value while the array-elements are off. To reduce unexpected transient related to the turning-on process, the O-DU may send zero-value beamforming weights for any disabled array element to be turned on prior to issuing the edit-config command turning on the array-elements, and may keep them at zero-value until receiving the notification that the new antenna mask activating those array elements is received. When TRX Control has disabled all array elements in a [tr]x-array, the O-RU may disable CU-Plane processing associated with all array-carriers using that [tr]x-array, and the O-DU should assume that the CU-Plane processing for those array-carrier has been halted by the O-RU.

#### 20.3.2.4 Interaction with M-Plane processing
An O-RU supporting M-Plane controlled TRX Control for energy saving shall be able to disable C/U plane monitoring (see clause 7.10). For example, an O-RU may support the cu-plane-monitoring container in its o-ran-supervision.yang model, allowing an O-DU to disable C/U plane monitoring operation. Operation of other M-plane procedures, including measuring of transport delay (clause 7.9), C/U plane transport connectivity verification (clause 7.6) and O-RU synchronization (clause 13) shall not be affected by this network energy savings feature’s functionality.

#### 20.3.2.5 Interaction with C-Plane TRX Control and ASM
An O-DU using M-Plane TRX Control for energy saving shall be able to also use C-Plane TRX Control when an O-RU supports both. However, the O-DU shall ensure the current M-Plane-commanded antenna mask (using antenna-mask or antenna-index pointing to O-RU advertised supported antenna mask) is all-ones (all array elements active) prior to issuing any C-Plane TRX Control commands, and the O-DU shall ensure the current C-Plane-commanded antenna mask is all-ones (all array-elements active) prior to issuing any M-Plane TRX Control commands. An O-DU using M-Plane TRX Control for energy saving shall be able to also use C-Plane ASM when an O-RU supports both. However, the O-DU shall ensure the current M-Plane-commanded antenna mask is all-ones (all array elements active) prior to issuing any C-Plane ASM commands, and the O-DU shall ensure the current C-Plane- commanded ASM conditions are terminated prior to issuing any M-Plane TRX Control commands.
> NOTE: The antenna mask is considered to be all-ones prior to any M-Plane or C-Plane TRX Control command
being issued.

### 20.3.3 Data layer control

#### 20.3.3.1 Introduction
Data layer control is used to achieve energy saving through reducing the number of data layers independent of TRX- Control. For example, the energy consumption of an O-RU can be reduced by turning off certain HW components like processing units of FPGA/GPUs or CPU/GPU cores or by running at a lower clock speed along with reduced processing requirements [i6]. The methodology of data layer control using endpoint switch off/on is described in clause 20.3.3.2.

#### 20.3.3.2 Capability and configuration of data layer control
This clause provides basic description of how an O-RU's data layers can be reduced to achieve the energy savings within an O-RU. The O-RU exposes the capability to support energy saving by including support of the feature MPLANE-DATA-LAYER-CONTROL in its o-ran-wg4-features.yang YANG module. The support of this feature means an O-RU shall advertise the data node energy-sharing-group-id per static-low-level-[tr]x-endpoints. Multiple endpoints that have the same energy-sharing-group-id value signifies that these endpoints share common underlying HW components. When an O-RU indicates it supports the MPLANE-DATA-LAYER-CONTROL feature, a global configuration leaf- list parameter energy-sharing-groups-disabled is available in the o-ran-uplane-conf YANG model. An O-RU Controller may turn off a group of data layers by adding one or more energy-sharing-group-id into the energy- sharing-groups-disabled list. When one or more energy-sharing-group-id is included in the energy-sharing-groups- disabled list, the O-RU shall switch off the underlying HW components common to that energy-sharing-group-id thereby resulting in energy savings. If an endpoint has multiple energy-sharing-group-id, the underlying HW components associated with the endpoint shall be turned off if any of the energy-sharing-group-id corresponding to the endpoint is added to the leaf-list energy-sharing-groups-disabled. The O-RU controller shall trigger data layer control only for the energy-sharing-group of endpoints all of whose eAxC-id values are currently not being used by the O-DU (i.e. not referenced, either directly or indirectly, within any CU-plane messages, e.g. by using Section Extension 10). An O-RU controller may turn on a group of data layers by removing the energy-sharing-group-id from the energy- sharing-groups-disabled list. When the energy-sharing-group-id is removed from the energy-sharing-groups- disabled list, the O-RU shall switch on the underlying HW components common to that energy-sharing-group-id. If an endpoint has multiple energy-sharing-group-id, the underlying HW components associated with the endpoint shall be turned on only if all the energy-sharing-group-id corresponding to the endpoint are removed from the leaf-list energy-sharing-groups-disabled. Subsequently, when the wake-up procedure is complete a notification shall be sent by the O-RU to all subscribed O-RU controllers as detailed in the Figure 20.3.3.2-1.

## 20.4 Advanced sleep modes for energy saving

### 20.4.1 ASM module capabilities
The O-RU exposes its ability to support energy saving by disabling some part of the processing, which impacts the O- RU’s array elements (based on the command scope of the received ST4 message) by including support of the feature ADVANCED-SLEEP-MODE in o-ran-wg4-features.yang YANG module. If the feature is supported, then an O-RU controller can use the NETCONF session to recover the O-RU ASM capabilities. These capability attributes are defined for each [tr]x-arrays. These capabilities can be recovered by an O-RU controller at the O-RU start up as part of the o- ran-uplane-conf.yang YANG module. The attributes are: 1) asm-capability-info: A container in o-ran-uplane-conf.yang YANG module with capabilities that are specific to Advanced sleep modes for each [tr]x-arrays. The parameters in the container include the following:
- sleep-mode-type: This value indicates the sleep mode supported by the O-RU for a particular [tr]x-array
as specified in the O-RAN CUS plane specification [2], Table 16.1-1.
- wake-up-duration: This value indicates the reported wake-up time (in microseconds) for a particular
sleep mode for a particular [tr]x-array. The O-DU can convert the wake-up duration in microseconds to the respective number of slots based on the SCS(s) supported by the O-RU (for more details, refer to O- RAN CUS plane specification [2], clause 16.1).
- wake-up-duration-guaranteed: The capability of the O-RU to guarantee full wake-up operation within
the time reported in wake-up-duration. This field shall be reported as "FALSE" if the O-RU cannot assure the wake-up time, in which case the value reported in wake-up-duration is considered as the minimum wake-up time. For sleep-mode-type reported as "SLEEP_MODE_0", the wake-up-duration- guaranteed shall be reported as "TRUE". Refer to the O-RAN CUS plane specification [2], clause 16.6 for more details on the differences between guaranteed and minimum wake-up durations.
- defined-duration-sleep-supported: The capability of the O-RU to support the defined sleep
functionality as specified in O-RAN CUS plane specification [2], clause 16.4.
- undefined-duration-sleep-supported: The capability of the O-RU to support the un-defined sleep
functionality as specified in O-RAN CUS plane specification [2], clause 16.5.
> NOTE: The leafs sleep-mode-type, wake-up-duration, wake-up-duration-guaranteed, defined-duration-sleep-
supported, undefined-duration-sleep-supported defined in this section are distinct from the leafs of the same name defined in clause 20.3.1.2. 2) The container energy-saving-capability-common-info as defined in clause 20.3.1.2 is also applicable for ASM.

### 20.4.2 Emergency wake-up procedure for ASM
The O-RU shall support emergency wake-up procedure for Advanced sleep modes similar to TRX control as described in clause 20.3.1.3.

### 20.4.3 Interaction with M-Plane processing
An O-RU supporting advanced sleep modes for energy saving shall be able to disable C/U plane monitoring (see clause 7.10). For example, an O-RU may support the cu-plane-monitoring container in its o-ran-supervision.yang model, allowing an O-DU to disable C/U plane monitoring operation. Operation of other M-plane procedures, including measuring of transport delay (clause 7.9), C/U plane transport connectivity verification (clause 7.6) and O-RU synchronisation (clause 13) shall not be affected by network energy savings functionality.

## 20.5 Deep-hibernate

### 20.5.1 Introduction
Deep-hibernate is an O-RU mode used to achieve relatively higher energy saving by disabling all carriers and stopping the C/U/S/M functions and corresponding processing units when compared to power-state defined in clause 9.1.3 or advanced sleep mode defined in clause 20.4.

### 20.5.2 Deep-hibernate module capabilities
The O-RU exposes its ability to support deep hibernate functionality by including support of the feature DEEP- HIBERNATE in its o-ran-wg4-features.yang YANG module. The support of this feature means an O-RU shall advertise the data node max-hibernate-time-duration and optionally advertise data node min-hibernate-time- duration.

### 20.5.3 Configuration of deep-hibernate
This clause provides description of how deep-hibernate can be activated in the O-RU. An O-RU Controller shall send an RPC <deep-hibernate> to activate the deep-hibernate in O-RU, which initiates the corresponding timer. The RPC shall include the hibernate-time duration. Before the O-DU sends the deep-hibernate RPC, the O-DU shall ensure that all [tr]x-array-carrier(s) shall be deactivated as defined in Figure 15.3.2-0b. If an O-RU receives a deep-hibernate RPC while one or more [tr]x-array- carriers are active, then it shall reject the RPC, including in the error-message the reason why deep-hibernation cannot be activated. If the deep-hibernate RPC is accepted by the O-RU, the O-RU shall cease processing control-plane, user-plane and synchronization plane operations. If accepted, the O-RU shall send a notification to all subscribed O-RU Controllers to indicate the deep-hibernate is activated, where the notification shall also indicate the hibernate-time. Upon receiving notification from an O-RU, a subscribed O-RU Controller shall send the RPC <close-session> to the O-RU. The O-RU shall suspend all NECTONF call home operations and/or PNF Registration operations after deep-hibernate mode activated. Once all NETCONF sessions are terminated, the M-Plane functions on O-RU shall then be stopped to reduce the further energy consumption and O-RU enters deep-hibernate. The O-RU shall not respond to any incoming NECTONF session while in deep-hibernate mode.
> NOTE: If any NETCONF session is not closed by NETCONF Client then the O-RU behavior is unspecified.
At the end of hibernate-time, the O-RU shall perform a re-start and follow the procedures defined in Figure 6.1-1. Upon restart, the O-RU shall set the restart-cause to DEEP-HIBERNATE-RESTART using o-ran-operations.yang YANG module. In case of autonomous O-RU restart while in deep-hibernate mode, e.g. because of some software failure, the O-RU is not expected to continue the deep-hibernate mode. In the case the O-RU is operating as a Shared O-RU as described in clause 19, an O-DU operating with "carrier" privileges as defined in Table 6.5-1 shall be prohibited from sending the RPC <deep-hibernate>. How the Shared O-RU Host coordinates with other O-DU(s) for the deep-hibernate activation is out of scope of this document.

## 20.6 Maximum output power control

### 20.6.1 Introduction
Maximum output power control is an energy saving method used to reduce power consumption in O-RU. To achieve this, the number of scheduled PRBs may be restricted by the O-DU, allowing the O-RU to adapt Power Amplifier (PA) accordingly.

### 20.6.2 Maximum output power control capability
The O-RU exposes the capability to save energy through adjusting the maximum tx power by reporting support of the feature MAX-POWER-CONTROL in its o-ran-wg4-features.yang YANG module. O-RU supporting MAX- POWER-CONTROL reports capabilities using following YANG schema nodes: 1) max-power-control-methods-supported: The control methods used to define the capabilities supported by the O-RU at two granularities:
- MAX-POWER-PER-TX-ARRAY-CONTROL: Enable the O-DU to configure the power reduction for
each tx-array.
- MAX-POWER-PER-TX-ARRAY-CARRIER-CONTROL: Enables the O-DU to configure the power
reduction for each tx-array-carrier. 2) supported-max-power-level: List of supported maximum output power levels per tx-array for energy saving.
- index: The leaf indicates the level of maximum output power control. If index = 0, it means this tx-array
is in the normal mode.
- array-max-power-reduction: The leaf indicates the reduced upper power compared to the rated
maximum power per tx-array for the index. For normal mode, this value shall be mapped to 0.

### 20.6.3 Maximum output power control configuration
The maximum output power is controlled by the O-RU Controller through configuration of the max-power-level-index parameter or carrier-max-power-reduction. The O-DU restricts the number of scheduled PRBs upper limit based on network load or predictive analysis, with implementation specifics excluded from this document. To control the maximum output power, the O-RU Controller shall configure the max-power-control-method value according to the methods exposed by the O-RU in max-power-control-methods-supported, MAX-POWER-PER- TX-ARRAY-CONTROL or MAX-POWER-PER-TX-ARRAY-CARRIER-CONTROL. 1) If method MAX-POWER-PER-TX-ARRAY-CONTROL is selected: The O-DU may only configure the max-power-level-index if the related tx-array reports supported-max-power-level. In this mode, the O-RU controller should select and configure the leaf max-power-level-index per tx-array, then the O-RU calculates and applies the corresponding level with array-max-power-reduction. The O-RU controller shall also ensure that maximum power level that is scheduled to be transmitted at the tx-array is less than the configured maximum tx power. Refer to the CUS-Plane specification [2] clause 8.1.3.3 for the restrictions on input IQ power level. 2) If method MAX-POWER-PER-TX-ARRAY-CARRIER-CONTROL is selected: The O-DU may only configure the carrier-max-power-reduction if the related tx-array reports supported-max-power-level. In this mode, the O-RU controller should configure the power reduction via carrier-max-power-reduction per tx-array-carrier. Then the O-RU calculates and applies the corresponding carrier-max-power-reduction per related tx-array-carrier. The O-RU controller shall also ensure that maximum power that is scheduled to be transmitted at the tx-array-carrier is less than one scheduled for the configured maximum tx power. Refer to the CUS-Plane specification [2] clause 8.1.3.3 for the restrictions on input IQ power level. If any O-RU abnormality or traffic abnormality is detected, O-RU controller can transfer the O-RU from energy saving mode to normal mode through set max-power-level-index to 0 per tx-array or set carrier-max-power-reduction to 0 per tx-array-carrier, and the O-DU should lift scheduling constraints after maximum power level recovery is completed. If the O-DU chooses to retrieve the currently used power-level, the O-DU shall read the read-only max-power-level- used parameter. The O-RU shall set this parameter to indicate the currently used energy saving level per tx-array, where the default value should be normal mode. When the maximum power control procedure has been completed, a notification shall be sent by the O-RU with the current max-power-level-used to all subscribed O-RU controllers as detailed in the Figure 20.6.3-1. When the O-DU configures array-max-power-reduction or carrier-max-power-reduction to a new value, then the O- DU shall adhere to the following constraints: 1) If the new value results in increased power reduction, then the O-DU shall reduce the power (e.g., by scheduling less PRBs) for the affected carriers before requesting the new configuration. 2) If the new value that results in decreased power reduction, then the O-DU shall not increase the power (e.g., by scheduling more PRBs) for the affected carriers before it received max-power-level-used notification. The O-RU may not guarantee service performance between reception of a request for configuration of array-max- power-reduction/carrier-max-power-reduction to a new value and sending of the max-power-level-used notification that signals implementation of the change.

### 20.6.4 Interaction with M-Plane processing
In the case of Shared O-RU, if different O-DUs configure carrier-max-power-reduction for carriers related to the same tx-array, then the values of carrier-max-power-reduction can be agreed via offline negotiation, which is outside the scope of the present document.

# 21 Received power measurements for shared spectrum
bands

## 21.1 Introduction
There exists some spectrum that is designated as shared spectrum. To improve the sharing experience, received power measurements can be beneficial in understanding the level to which the shared spectrum is being used. Citizens Broadband Radio Service (CBRS) is an example of such a shared spectrum allocation, corresponding to 150MHz of spectrum in the 3.5GHz band (3550 MHz to 3700 MHz) in the United States. CBRS band is lightly licensed and the use is expected to reduce the cost of data transmissions. The CBRS architecture introduces the Spectrum Access System (SAS) function that is responsible for authorisation and manages use of the shared spectrum [i.7]. To help inform the SAS of the wireless environment, the O-RU can optionally support measurements of shared spectrum bands. An O-RU supporting such optional capability shall include the o-ran-frequency-band-measurement model in its YANG library. This clause 21 applies to O-RUs that support this optional capability.
> NOTE: This clause 21 defines the use of NETCONF-based procedures between an O-RU and an O-RU controller
for performing measurements of shared spectrum bands. Signalling between the O-RU Controller and the SAS are out of scope of the present document.

## 21.2 Measurement Procedure
An O-RU controller can use the received-power-measurement-request RPC to trigger the O-RU to start measurements, as illustrated in Figure 21.2-1. The O-RU can report its capabilities to the NETCONF client. These capabilities are defined in o-ran-frequency-band- measurement.yang module. The attributes included are:
- measurement-bands-supported: The supported requency range for which an O-RU can perform the received
power measurement.
- in-service-measurement: Indicates whether O-RU can support measurements when tx-array carriers are
active in measurement band.
- in-service-measurement-only-carrier-freq: Indicate an O-RU only support measurement on frequency range
as carrier is configured on when in-service-measurement is TRUE.
- supported-measurement-points: Indicates which measurement point(s) are supported by the O-RU. Defined
measurement points are NO_ARRAY, ONE_ARRAY and MULTIPLE_ARRAYS. Depending on the reported measurement points, the O-RU supports measurements without an rx-array name provided (NO_ARRAY), with a single rx-array name provided (ONE_ARRAY) and/or with multiple rx-array names provided (MULTIPLE_ARRAYS). If ONE_ARRAY or MULTIPLE_ARRAY is reported by the O-RU, then the O-RU controller shall configure the rx-array name(s) as the measurement point in the rx-array leaf-list in the received-power-measurement-request rpc.

## 21.3 Measurement attributes
Following received-power-measurement-request rpc is used to trigger the measurement and subsequent notification of the measurement results.
- rpc: received-power-measurement-request
- input
▪ measurement-bandwidth: This is the measurement unit. ▪ measurement-start-frequency: This is the start frequency range requested for measurement. For band n48, the limited range is 3550...3700Mhz. O-RU can report the measurement of continuous spectrum or the limited discontinuous spectrum. When the O-RU does not have a spectrum grant from the CBRS system, received power shall be measured and reported over the entire CBRS band in segments that do not exceed 10 MHz per measurement report. When the O-RU has a spectrum grant from the CBRS system, received power shall be measured and reported over one or more frequency ranges that do not exceed 10 MHz per measurement report. ▪ rx-array: The measurement point for which the O-RU shall provide measurements. The supported values depend on the supported-measurement-points capability. If multiple rx-array names are provided, then the rx-arrays must be allocated in the same sector and for each measurement (identified by measurement-start-frequency), only one value of received-power shall be reported.
- output
▪ status: whether O-RU accepted or rejected the measure request. ▪ error-message: The detailed error message when the operation is failed. If the requested range is out of O-RU's Instantaneous BandWidth(IBW) then it can output status as FAILED with a detailed error-message. ▪ wait-time: Declare the expected time for report delivery in notification. ▪ measurement-id: Identify an RPC for one measurement.
- notification: power-measurement-result
- status: whether O-RU accepted or rejected the measure request.
- error-message: The detailed error message when the operation is failed.
- measurement-id: Identify an RPC for one measurement.
- received-power-measurement: This list indicates the List of RSSI measurements.
If O-RU controller uses "rpc received-power-measurement-request" to request measurement report, then O-RU performs and reports received power measurements over the requested-spectrum band in segments of measurement- bandwidth per measurement report. O-RU sends RPC response where status= SUCCEED or FAILED. O-RU performs measurement and delivers result to O-RU controller. O-RU sends error-message when status = FAILED and with appropriate failure reason. For CBRS, O-RU performs the received power measurement in segments with 5 or 10MHz measurement bandwidth per measurement report. The range bounded by measurement-start-frequency as the lower bound and measurement-start- frequency+ measurement-bandwidth as the upper bound expresses the frequency range used in making the measurement. Measurement bandwidth is fixed during each measurement. The possible expression range of the measurement parameter for CBRS is -100 dBm... -25dBm. When the measurement result in O-RU is out of the range:
- O-RU should report -100 dBm when result is lower than -100dBm.
- O-RU should report -25 dBm when result is higher than -25dBm.


---

<!-- SOURCE: combined_oran_wg5.md -->
<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG5.O-CU-O1.0-R003-v07.00 (1).md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG5.O-CU-O1.0-R003-v07.00 Technical Specification O-RAN Work Group 5"
---

# 2024 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. All Rights Reserved 1
ORAN-WG5.O-CU-O1.0-R003-v07.00 Contents specification ORAN-WG5.O-CU-O1.0-R003-v07.00 specification ORAN-WG5.O-CU-O1.0-R003-v07.00

### A.14.10 Number of RRC Connections completions for retransmission RRC Connections requests each
specification ORAN-WG5.O-CU-O1.0-R003-v07.00

### A.16.9 Interrupted PDU Session Resource configuration for emergency and high priority access by O-DU Error

### A.16.10 Interrupted PDU Session Resource configuration for emergency and high priority access by O-CU
specification ORAN-WG5.O-CU-O1.0-R003-v07.00

### A.18.2 Number of RRC re-establishment request completions for initial RRC re-establishment requests when UE

### A.18.4 Number of RRC re-establishment request completions for retransmission RRC re-establishment request

### A.18.6 Number of RRC re-establishment request completions for initial RRC re-establishment requests when UE

### A.18.8 Number of RRC re-establishment request completions for retransmission RRC re-establishment requests

### A.18.10 Number of RRC re-establishment request completions for initial RRC re-establishment requests during

### A.18.11 Number of retransmission RRC re-establishment requests during Voice call when UE context can be

### A.18.12 Number of RRC re-establishment request completions for retransmission RRC re-establishment request
List of Figures specification ORAN-WG5.O-CU-O1.0-R003-v07.00 List of Tables Foreword This Technical Specification (TS) has beed produced by WG5 of the O-RAN Allance. The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within O-RAN WG5 and may change following formal O-RAN approval. Should the O-RAN.org modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released by O-RAN Alliance with an identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as follows:

# 9 Release x.y.z
where: x the first digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

# 12 (the initial approved document will have x=01).
y the second digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been incorporated in the document. z the third digit included only in working versions of the document indicating incremental changes during the editing process. Modal verbs terminology In the present document "shall", "shall not", "should", "should not", "may", "need not", "will", "will not", "can" and "cannot" are to be interpreted as described in clause 3.2 of the O-RAN Drafting Rules (Verbal forms for the expression of provisions). "must" and "must not" are NOT allowed in O-RAN deliverables except when used in direct citation. specification ORAN-WG5.O-CU-O1.0-R003-v07.00

# 14 Alliance, Working Group 10
[4] 3GPP TS 28.541, “Management and orchestration; 5G Network Resource Model (NRM); Stage 2 and stage 3”, Release 17, v17.2.1, 2021-04 [5] 3GPP TS 32.342, “File Transfer (FT); Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)”, Release 16, v16.0.0, 2020-07 [6] 3GPP TS 32.302, “Configuration Management (CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP) ; Information Service (IS)”, Release 16, v16.0.0, 2020-07 [7] 3GPP TS 28.622, “Telecommunication management; Generic Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)”, Release 16, v16.7.1, 2021-04 [8] 3GPP TS 28.552: “Management and orchestration; 5G performance measurements”, Release 17, v17.4.0, 2021-

# 24 09
[9] 3GPP TS 32.156: “Telecommunication management; Fixed Mobile Convergence (FMC) Model repertoire”, 3GPP, Release 17, v17.1.0, 2022-06 [10] 3GPP TS 32.160: “Management and orchestration; Management service template”, 3GPP, Release 17, v17.4.0, 2022-06 [11] 3GPP TS 38.401: “NG-RAN; Architecture description”, 3GPP, Release 17, v17.1.1, 2022-07 [12] 3GPP TS 38.331: “NR; Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol specification”, 3GPP, Release 17 [13] 3GPP TS 38.463: “NG-RAN; E1 Application Protocol (E1AP)”, 3GPP, Release 17

# 3 Definitions of terms symbols and abbreviation s

## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the O1 interface specification [3] apply.

## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the symbols given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A symbol defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same symbol, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].

## 3.3 Abbreviations and acronyms
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in

# 12 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].

# 13 5QI 5G QoS Identifier

# 14 MnS Management Service

# 15 NETCONF Network Configuration Protocol

# 16 NMS Network Management System

# 17 O-CU O-RAN Central Unit

# 18 O-CU-CP O-RAN Central Unit Control Plane

# 19 O-CU-UP O-RAN Central Unit User Plane

# 20 O-DU O-RAN Distributed Unit

# 21 O-RU O-RAN Radio Unit

# 22 OAM Operations And Maintenance

# 23 PNF Physical Network Function

# 24 QoS Quality of Service

# 25 RPC Remote Procedure Call
sFTP Secure File Transfer Protocol or SSH File Transfer Protocol

# 27 SMO Service Management and Orchestration

# 28 SSH Secure Shell

# 29 VES Virtual-function Event Streaming

# 30 VLAN Virtual LAN

# 31 YANG Yet Another Next Generation

## 3.4 Conventions
This specification includes cross references to a set of associated YANG models. Text may reference particular YANG leafs, notifications and remote procedure calls (RPCs). In order to assist in readability, all cross references to YANG defined elements will keep the identical case format as defined in the corresponding YANG model, with the font-weight set to bold. This convention applies only to text and not to YANG elements embedded into figures. specification ORAN-WG5.O-CU-O1.0-R003-v07.00 If there is any conflict between the YANG models and the accompanying text description in this specification, the definition of the YANG models shall take precedence.

## 3.5 Revision and compatibility handling
The revision statement in the YANG models shall be used to describe future revisions to the models that are backwards compatible. Backwards incompatible changes will be addressed by incrementing the number used as part of the model name and namespace, effectively creating a new YANG model. The format of the namespace used in all O-RAN YANG models is “urn:o-ran:”<model-name>“:”<model-number>, where the initial <model-number> used in a newly defined YANG model is “1.0”. Where this document makes reference to models, irrespective of their backward compatibility, a generic <model-number> of “x.y” is used to enable reference to all versions of the namespace for a particular <model- name>. The revision statement in all YANG models includes a reference statement used to cross-reference to the first version of this document where the corresponding description was introduced. For example, the reference in all revision statements for the initial O-RAN models should include cross-reference to “O-RAN.WG5.O-CU-O1.0-v01.00”. The revision statement of the YANG models also includes a description which is used to track the versioning of the YANG model. All revision statement descriptions will begin with “version ”<a>“.”<b>“.”<c>, where <a>, <b> and <c> are used to reflect the version of the YANG model, where <a> corresponds to the first digit of the O-RAN WG5 management plane specification version where the corresponding description was first introduced, corresponding to <x> in clause 1 <b> is incremented when errors in the YANG model have been corrected <c> is incremented only in working versions of the YANG model indicating incremental changes during the editing process

# 4 High Level Description

## 4.1 Top level functional description and terminology

### 4.1.1 Architecture for O-RAN WG5 functional split
This O1 interface facilitates the initialization, configuration and management of the O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP. Please refer to O-RAN OAM Architecture [2] for more details on the architecture.

### 4.1.2 O1 interface for O-CU architecture model
O1 interface for O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP is used for supporting the management features including “start up” installation, PNF software management, provisioning management, performance management, fault management and file management towards the O-CU.

### 4.1.3 Transport Network
Based on the transport topology, various modes of network connectivity are possible between O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP and SMO, as defined in the O-RAN OAM Architecture document [2].

## 4.2 Interfaces
The interface between the management system and the O-CU is as defined in the O1 specification [3]. specification ORAN-WG5.O-CU-O1.0-R003-v07.00

# 5 PNF Startup and Registration Management
O-CU (including O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP) may be deployed as PNF as described in O1 Interface Specification [3], clause 6.7 PNF Startup and Registration Management Services.

## 5.1 PNF Plug-n-Play
PNF Plug-n-Play for O-CU is aligned with O1 Interface Specification [3], clause 6.7.1 PNF Plug-n-Connect.

## 5.2 PNF Registration
PNF Registration for O-CU is aligned with O1 Interface Specification [3], clause 6.7.2 PNF Registration.

# 6 Heartbeat Management Services

## 6.1 Heartbeat Notification
Heartbeat Notification for both O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP are aligned with O1 Interface Specification [3], clause 6.6.1 Heartbeat Notification. Figure 6-1 shows the example of notifyHeartbeat notification by using ‘SDO O1 format’.

# 17 Figure 6-1: Heartbeat Notification

## 6.2 Heartbeat Control
Heartbeat Control for both O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP are aligned with O1 Interface Specification [3], clause 6.6.2

# 21 Heartbeat Control.
specification ORAN-WG5.O-CU-O1.0-R003-v07.00

# 7 PNF Software Management Services

## 7.1 Software Package Naming and Content
Software Package Naming and Content for O-CU is aligned with O1 Interface Specification [3], clause 6.8.1 Software

# 6 Package Naming and Content.

## 7.2 Software Inventory
Software Inventory for O-CU is aligned with O1 Interface Specification [3], clause 6.8.2 Software Inventory.

## 7.3 Software Download
Software Download for O-CU is aligned with O1 Interface Specification [3], clause 6.8.3Software Download.

## 7.4 Software Activation Pre-Check
Software Activation Pre-Check for O-CU is aligned with O1 Interface Specification [3], clause 6.8.4 Software

# 13 Activation Pre-Check.

## 7.5 Software Activate
Software Activate for O-CU is aligned with O1 Interface Specification [3], clause 6.8.5 Software Activate.

# 8 Performance Management

## 8.1 Performance Data File Reporting
Performance Data File Reporting for O-CU is aligned with O1 Interface Specification [3], clause 6.3.1 Performance

# 20 Data File Reporting.
The Measurement Type and definitions for performance counters are described in both clause 6.3 of O1 interface specification [3] and Annex A of this specification. All measurements are optional and can be selected based on service deployment.

## 8.2 Performance Data Streaming
Performance Data Streaming for O-CU is aligned with O1 Interface Specification [3] , clause 6.3.2 Performance Data

# 26 Streaming.

## 8.3 Measurement Job Control
Measurement Job Control for O-CU is aligned with O1 Interface Specification [3] , clause 6.3.3 Measurement Job

# 29 Control.
specification ORAN-WG5.O-CU-O1.0-R003-v07.00

# 9 Fault Management
Fault supervision management services allow a Fault Supervision MnS Provider to report errors and events to a Fault Supervision MnS Consumer and allow a Fault Supervision MnS Consumer to perform fault supervision operations on the Fault Supervision MnS Provider, such as get alarm list. O-CU-UP and O-CU-CP Fault Supervision Management services are aligned with O1 Interface Specification [3], clause

# 7 6.2 Fault Supervision Management Services.

## 9.1 Fault Notification
O-CU-UP and O-CU-CP Fault notification events are aligned with O1 Interface Specification [3], clause 6.2.1 Fault

# 10 Notification.

## 9.2 Fault Supervision Control
O-CU-UP and O-CU-CP Fault supervision control is aligned with O1 Interface Specification [3], clause 6.2.2 Fault

# 13 Supervision Control.

# 10 File Management
This clause illustrate File Management between the O-CU-CP and SMO and between the O-CU-UP and SMO. The File Management Service is applied to manage file transfer for different types of data file such as Bulk CM file, Call and UE trace file, Performance Measurement result file, etc. The following file management use cases are supported for the O-

# 19 CU-CP and O-CU-UP:

# 20 • List available files

# 21 • Transfer file

# 22 • Download file

# 23 • File ready notification
The detailed description of the use cases including file management operations and procedures as well as sequence diagram can be found in the O-RAN O1 interface specification [3], clause 6.5. This clause shall describe the handling of files that are stored in the O-CU-CP which are generated by the O-CU-CP itself and O-CU-UP which are generated by the O-CU-UP itself. The data files that are stored in the O-CU shall follow clause 10.1 of this specification.

## 10.1 File Structure
The file system structure for the O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP is defined as for file management procedures defined in the rest of this clause. If the O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP’s physical file structure differs from the logical file structure defined below, the O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP shall perform the mapping related files into defined structure. The O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP shall support the standardized folders for files generated by the O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP itself. The following standardized folders are defined: specification ORAN-WG5.O-CU-O1.0-R003-v07.00

# 3 › O-RAN/O-CU-CP/CM/ for configuration files (except inventory)

# 4 › O-RAN/O-CU-CP/NL/ for notification log file

# 5 › O-RAN/O-CU-CP/CT/ for call trace files

# 6 › O-RAN/O-CU-CP/OT/ for other files

# 7 O-CU-UP

# 8 › O-RAN/O-CU-UP/PM/ for performance data files

# 9 › O-RAN/O-CU-UP/CM/ for configuration files (except inventory)

# 10 › O-RAN/O-CU-UP/NL/ for notification log file

# 11 › O-RAN/O-CU-UP/CT/ for call trace files

# 12 › O-RAN/O-CU-UP/OT/ for other files
The O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP may additionally support vendor defined folders which are out of scope of this specification.

## 10.2 Notification notifyFileReady
The file ready notification is applied to when the management data files have been prepared ready in O-CU-CP and O- CU-UP. The O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP will send notification using notifyFileReady VES event to subscribed SMO in order to notify the availability of the file(s) as defined in O1 Interface Specification [3]. The following input parameters are provided by the file ready notification (see also 3GPP TS 32.342 [5]): objectClass Notification header – see 3GPP TS 32.302[6]. It shall carry the FTIRP class name. objectInstance Notification header - see 3GPP TS 32.302[6]. It shall carry the DN of the FTIRP. notificationId Notification header - see 3GPP TS 32.302[6] . eventTime Notification header - see 3GPP TS 32.302[6] . systemDN Notification header - see 3GPP TS 32.302[6] . notificationType Notification header – see 3GPP TS 32.302[6] . fileInfoList It specifies the information of the available file. additionalText It carries vendor-specific semantics not defined in the present document.

# 22 Table 1: Parameters list for Notification notifyFileReady
When a file is available, the O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP sends a FileReady notification to the SMO using HTTP/TLS as defined in O1 Interface Specification [3]. The FileReady notification for O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP is performed independently.

# 27 @startuml

# 28 Title File Ready Notification
participant "SMO/OAM\n(File Management Service Consumer)” as L participant "O-CU-CP\n(File Management Service Provider)" as M participant "O-CU-UP\n(File Management Service Provider)" as N specification ORAN-WG5.O-CU-O1.0-R003-v07.00

# 3 L <- N: HTTP/TLS<notifyFileReady>

# 4 @enduml

# 8 Figure 10-1: File Ready Notification

## 10.3 File Management Operation: listAvailableFiles
This listAvailableFiles operation for the SMO is applied to obtain the available file list with files location and type from the O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP by reading the AvailableFileList IOC as specified in O1 Interface Specification [3], clause 6.5.2. The listAvailableFiles operation for O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP can be performed independently.

## 10.4 File Management Operation: transferFile
The Transfer File Service provides the capability for the SMO to transfer files from or to the O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP. SMO/OAM may perform this action as a result of a FileReady notification from the O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP informing SMO that a file is now available to transfer. In any case, the file transfer is performed using a secure file transfer protocol (SFTP or FTPeS) from or to the location provided by O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP. The SMO triggers file transfer operation to O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP. Detailed procedure can be found in clause 6.5.3 of O1 Interface Specification [3]. The transferFile operation for O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP is performed independently.

## 10.5 File Management Operation: downloadFile
The Download File Service provides the capability for the SMO to request the O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP to download the file(s) when the SMO has a file that needs to be downloaded. In any case, the file download is performed using a secure file transfer protocol (SFTP or FTPeS) from the location provided by the SMO. The O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP replies to the SMO with the result of the download procedure. Detailed procedure can be found in clause 6.5.4 of O1 Interface Specification [3]. The downloadFile operation for O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP is performed independently. specification ORAN-WG5.O-CU-O1.0-R003-v07.00

# 11 Provisioning Management
This clause describes the Provisioning Management for O-CU specific aspects.

## 11.1 Configuration for O-CU

# 6 SMO configures the O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP.

# 8 Data Model configurations:

# 9 1. SA5 data model
The following 3GPP SA5 YANG modules are imported in the O-CU YANG modules published along with this specification. See TS 28.541 [4]

# 12 - _3gpp-common-top.yang

# 13 - _3gpp-common-yang-types.yang

# 14 - _3gpp-common-managed-element.yang

# 15 - _3gpp-nr-nrm-gnbcucpfunction.yang

# 16 - _3gpp-nr-nrm-nrcellcu.yang

# 17 - _3gpp-nr-nrm-nrfreqrelation.yang

# 18 - _3gpp-nr-nrm-gnbcuupfunction.yang

# 19 - _3gpp-nr-nrm-ep.yang

# 21 2. O-RAN augmentation of SA5 data models

# 22 O-CU-CP

# 23 - o-ran-cu-security-handling.yang

# 25 O-CU-UP

# 26 --- The O-CU YANG modules listed above, are published along with this specification document, and augment SA5 data
models. SupportQualifier(SQ) property for each attribute in the O-CU YANG modules, specifies whether it is mandatory for vendor to support the attribute in the implementation and in the data model. Meaning of this property, follows the definition in 3GPP TS 32.156 [9], clause 6. Values can be M, O, CM, CO. If SQ=O, for an attribute, and if vendor does not support it, then this lack of support shall be indicated, as specified in

# 34 3GPP TS 32.160 [10] clause 6.2.26.
If SQ is not specified, then a default value of 'O' is to be assumed. specification ORAN-WG5.O-CU-O1.0-R003-v07.00

## 11.2 Notification aspect

### 11.2.1 Subscribing for O-CU notification from SMO
The O-CU would represent the parameters in its YANG model. The SMO is responsible of subscribing to the parameters of interest from the O-CU data model using subscription mechanism described in O1 Interface specification [3] clause 6.1.7 Subscription Control.

## 11.3 Information model for O-CU-CP

### 11.3.1 Imported and associated information entities

# 8 11.3.1.1 Imported information entities and local labels
Label reference Local label 3GPP TS 28.622 [7], IOC, Top Top

# 9 11.3.1.2 Accociated information entities and local labels
Label reference Local label 3GPP TS 28.622 [7], IOC, ManagedElement ManagedElement

### 11.3.2 Class diagram

# 12 11.3.2.1 Relationships

# 13 @startuml
skin rose

# 15 Class ManagedElement <<InformationObjectClass >> << (A,CadetBlue) >>
Class GNBCUCPFunction <<InformationObjectClass >> << (L, #FF7700) >> class SecurityHandling <<InformationObjectClass >> << (L, #FF7700) >>

# 19 SecurityHandling : <color:Blue> cipheringAlgoPrio </color>

# 20 SecurityHandling : <color:Blue> integrityProtectAlgoPrio </color>
class CUCountGroup <<InformationObjectClass >> << (L, #FF7700) >>

# 23 CUCountGroup : <color:Blue> cu-count-group-index </color>

# 24 CUCountGroup : <color:Blue> drb-id </color>

# 25 CUCountGroup : <color:Blue> qci </color>

# 26 CUCountGroup : <color:Blue> srb-id </color>

# 27 CUCountGroup : <color:Blue> fiveQi </color>

# 28 CUCountGroup : <color:Blue> sd </color>

# 29 CUCountGroup : <color:Blue> sst </color>

# 30 CUCountGroup : <color:Blue> plmn-id </color>

# 31 CUCountGroup : <color:Blue> arp </color>

# 33 ManagedElement *-- "0..*" GNBCUCPFunction

# 35 GNBCUCPFunction *-- "0..1" SecurityHandling

# 37 GNBCUCPFunction *-- "0..30" CUCountGroup

# 38 @enduml
specification ORAN-WG5.O-CU-O1.0-R003-v07.00

# 4 @startuml
skin rose class GNBCUCPFunction <<InformationObjectClass>> class "PDCPConfig" <<InformationObjectClass>> "PDCPConfig" : qci "PDCPConfig" : fiveQI "PDCPConfig" : discard-timer "PDCPConfig" : pdcp-sn-size-ul "PDCPConfig" : pdcp-sn-size-dl "PDCPConfig" : t-reordering "PDCPConfig" : t-reordering-ul "PDCPConfig" : rlc-mode "PDCPConfig" : header-compression-enabled "PDCPConfig" : ul-data-split-threshold

# 21 GNBCUCPFunction *-- "0..32" "PDCPConfig" : <<names>>

# 23 @enduml
specification ORAN-WG5.O-CU-O1.0-R003-v07.00

# 4 11.3.2.2 Inheritance

# 5 @startuml
skin rose hide empty members abstract class Top <<InformationObjectClass>> class CUCountGroup <<InformationObjectClass>>

# 12 Top <|-d- CUCountGroup
class SecurityHandling <<InformationObjectClass>>

# 14 Top <|-d- SecurityHandling
class "PDCPConfig" <<InformationObjectClass>>

# 16 Top <|-d- "PDCPConfig"
note right of Top defined in

# 19 3GPP TS 28.622
clause 4.3.29

# 22 @enduml
specification ORAN-WG5.O-CU-O1.0-R003-v07.00

### 11.3.3 Class definition

# 5 11.3.3.1 SecurityHandling <<InformationObjectClass>>

# 6 11.3.3.1.1 Definition
This IOC represents the CU-CP security related handling function.

# 8 11.3.3.1.2 Attributes
Support Attribute name Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable cipheringAlgoPrio O T T F T integrityProtectAlgoPrio O T T F T

# 9 11.3.3.1.3 Attribute constraints

# 10 None

# 11 11.3.3.1.4 Notifications

# 12 There are no notifications defined.

# 13 11.3.3.1.5 State diagram

# 14 None

# 15 11.3.3.2 CUCountGroup <<InformationObjectClass>>

# 16 11.3.3.2.1 Definition

# 17 This IOC represents the cucountgroup function.
specification ORAN-WG5.O-CU-O1.0-R003-v07.00

# 3 None

# 4 11.3.3.2.4 Notifications

# 5 There are no notifications defined.

# 6 11.3.3.2.5 State diagram

# 7 None

# 8 11.3.3.3 PDCPConfig <<InformationObjectClass>>

# 9 11.3.3.3.1 Definition

# 10 This IOC represents PDCP configurations for O-CU-CP.

# 11 11.3.3.3.2 Attributes
Support Attribute name Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable qci O T T F T fiveQI O T T F T discard-timer O T T F T pdcp-sn-size-ul O T T F T pdcp-sn-size-dl O T T F T t-reordering O T T F T t-reordering-ul O T T F T rlc-mode O T T F T header-compression- O T T F T enabled ul-data-split-threshold O T T F T

# 12 11.3.3.3.3 Attribute constraints

# 13 None

# 14 11.3.3.3.4 Notifications

# 15 There are no notifications defined.
specification ORAN-WG5.O-CU-O1.0-R003-v07.00

### 11.3.4 Attribute definitions

# 5 11.3.4.1 Attribute properties
Attribute Name Documentation and Allowed Values Properties cipheringAlgoPrio The attribute provides allowed ciphering algorithms with Type: ENUM priority order. CipheringAlgorithmID multiplicity: 1..4 Algorithm in index zero has highest priority. Each isOrdered: True algorithm written only once in array. isUnique: True defaultValue: NEA1,NEA2,NEA0 AllowedValues: isNullable: False NEA0, NEA1, NEA2, NEA3 Default value: NEA1,NEA2,NEA0 integrityProtectAl The attribute provides allowed integrity algorithms with Type: ENUM goPrio priority order. IntegrityAlgorithmID multiplicity: 1..3 Algorithm in index zero has highest priority. Each isOrdered: True algorithm written only once in array. isUnique: True defaultValue: NIA2,NIA1 AllowedValues: isNullable: False NIA1, NIA2, NIA3 DefaultValue: NIA2,NIA1 cu-count-group- The attribute provides Cu Counter Group index. Type: uint8 index multiplicity: 1 AllowedValues: isOrdered: N/A 0..30 isUnique: N/A defaultValue: - isNullable: False drb-id The attribute provides DRB ID which is used for Type: uint8 concerned CuCountGroup. Value 0 indicates that this multiplicity: 1 DRB ID is not counted in this CuCountGroup isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A AllowedValues: defaultValue: - 0..32 isNullable: False CUCountGroup.qci The attribute provides QoS Class Identifier defined in Type: uint8 TS 23.401. Logical range and coding specified in TS multiplicity: 1 23.203. Value 0 indicates that this QCI shall NOT be isOrdered: N/A counted in the CuCountGroup. isUnique: N/A defaultValue: - AllowedValues: isNullable: False 0..255 srb-id The attribute provides SRB ID used for concerned Type: uint8 CuCountGroup. Value 0 indicates that this SRB ID is multiplicity: 1 not counted in this CuCountGroup. isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A AllowedValues; defaultValue: - 0..3 isNullable: False CUCountGroup.fiveQ The attribute provides 5QI identifier. Value 0 indicates Type: uint8 i that this 5QI shall NOT be counted in the multiplicity: 1 CuCountGroup. isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A AllowedValues; defaultValue: - 0..255 isNullable: False specification ORAN-WG5.O-CU-O1.0-R003-v07.00 sd This parameter indicates the slice differentiator. Value Type: uint8

# 16777215 (0xFFFFFF) means no SD value associated multiplicity: 1
with the SST. isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A AllowedValues; defaultValue: - 0..16777215 isNullable: False sst This parameter indicates the slice service type. Type: uint8 multiplicity: 1 AllowedValues; isOrdered: N/A 0..255 isUnique: N/A defaultValue: - isNullable: False plmn-id 3-octet string, representing PLMN ID. Type: string multiplicity: 1 isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: - isNullable: False arp This parameter indicates the allocation and retention Type: uint8 priority. Value 0 indicates that this ARP is not counted multiplicity: 1 in this CuCountGroup. isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A AllowedValues; defaultValue: - 0..15 isNullable: False PDCPConfig.qci List of QCIs for which this PDCP configuration is Type: Integer applied. multiplicity: 0..* isOrdered: False allowedValues: 0..255 isUnique: True defaultValue: - isNullable: False PDCPConfig.fiveQI List of 5QIs for which this PDCP configuration is Type: Integer applied. multiplicity: 0..* isOrdered: False allowedValues: 0..255 isUnique: True defaultValue: - isNullable: False discard-timer Discard timer in milliseconds for this PDCP Type: Integer Configuration. See TS 38.331 [12]. multiplicity: 0..1 isOrdered: N/A If no value set, implies infinity. isUnique: N/A defaultValue: - allowedValues: 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 75, 100, 150, isNullable: False 200, 250, 300, 500, 750, 1500 pdcp-sn-size-ul PDCP SN size in Uplink for this PDCP Configuration. Type: ENUM pdcpSNSize Not used when rlc-mode set to RLC-TM. See TS multiplicity: 1 38.331 [12]. isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A allowedValues: LEN-12-BITS, LEN-18-BITS defaultValue: - isNullable: False pdcp-sn-size-dl PDCP SN size in Downlink for this PDCP Configuration. Type: ENUM pdcpSNSize Not used when rlc-mode set to RLC-TM. See TS multiplicity: 1 38.331 [12]. isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A allowedValues: LEN-12-BITS, LEN-18-BITS defaultValue: - isNullable: False t-reordering Reordering timer in milliseconds for this PDCP Type: Integer Configuration. This timer is used by the receiving side multiplicity: 0..1 of PDCP entity to detect loss of RLC PDUs at lower isOrdered: N/A layer. See TS 38.331 [12]. isUnique: N/A defaultValue: - If no value set, implies infinity. isNullable: False allowedValues: 0, 1, 2, 4, 5, 8, 10, 15, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 80, 100, 120, 140, 160, 180, 200, 220, 240, 260, 280, 300, 500, 750, 1000, 1250, 1500, 1750, 2000, 2250, 2500, 2750, 3000 specification ORAN-WG5.O-CU-O1.0-R003-v07.00 t-reordering-ul Uplink Reordering Timer in milliseconds for this PDCP Type: Integer Configuration. Used by CU-UP for Uplink. See TS multiplicity: 0..1 38.463 [13]. isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A If no value set, implies infinity. defaultValue: - isNullable: False allowedValues: 0, 1, 2, 4, 5, 8, 10, 15, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 80, 100, 120, 140, 160, 180, 200, 220, 240, 260, 280, 300, 500, 750, 1000, 1250, 1500, 1750, 2000, 2250, 2500, 2750, 3000 rlc-mode RLC mode for this PDCP Configuration. See TS 38.463 Type: ENUM rlcModeType [13]. multiplicity: 1 isOrdered: N/A allowedValues: RLC-TM, RLC-AM, RLC-UM- isUnique: N/A BIDIRECTIONAL, RLC-UM-BIDIRECTIONAL-UL, RLC- defaultValue: - UM-UNIDIRECTIONAL-DL isNullable: False header- Specifies whether ROHC should be enabled for this Type: Boolean compression- PDCP Configuration. See TS 38.331 [12]. multiplicity: 1 enabled isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: - isNullable: False ul-data-split- Uplink Data Split Threshold in bytes for this PDCP Type: Integer threshold Configuration. See TS 38.331 [12]. multiplicity: 0..1 isOrdered: N/A If no value set, implies infinity. isUnique: N/A defaultValue: - allowedValues: 0, 100, 200, 400, 800, 1600, 3200, isNullable: False 6400, 12800, 25600, 51200, 102400, 204800, 409600, 819200, 1228800, 1638400, 2457600, 3276800, 4096000, 4915200, 5734400, 6553600

# 12 Trace Management Services
Trace Management Service for both O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP are aligned with O1 Interface Specification [3], clause 6.4. The O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP can be Trance MnS Provider independently

## 12.1 Call Trace
Call Trace for both O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP are aligned with O1 Interface Specification [3], clause 6.4.1.

## 12.2 Minimization of Drive Testing (MDT)
Minimization of Drive Testing for both O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP are aligned with O1 Interface Specification [3], clause

# 10 6.4.2.

## 12.3 Radio Link Failure (RLF)
Radio Link Failure for both O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP are aligned with O1 Interface Specification [3], clause 6.4.3. specification ORAN-WG5.O-CU-O1.0-R003-v07.00

## 12.4 RRC Connection Establishment Failure (RCEF)
RRC Connection Establishment Failure for both O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP are aligned with O1 Interface Specification [3], clause 6.4.4.

## 12.5 Trace Control
Trace Control for both O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP are aligned with O1 Interface Specification [3], clause 6.4.5.

## 12.6 Streaming Trace
Streaming Trace for both O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP are aligned with O1 Interface Specification [3], clause 6.4.6. specification ORAN-WG5.O-CU-O1.0-R003-v07.00


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG5.O-DU-O1.0-R003-v09.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG5.O-DU-O1.0-R003-v09.00 Technical Specification O-RAN Work Group 5"
---

# 4 Release x.y.z
where: x the first digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc. (the initial approved document will have x=01). y the second digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been incorporated in the document. z the third digit included only in working versions of the document indicating incremental changes during the editing process. Modal verbs terminology In the present document "shall", "shall not", "should", "should not", "may", "need not", "will", "will not", "can" and "cannot" are to be interpreted as described in clause 3.2 of the O-RAN Drafting Rules (Verbal forms for the expression of provisions). "must" and "must not" are NOT allowed in O-RAN deliverables except when used in direct citation. Copyright © 2024 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Your use is subject to copyright statement on the cover page of this specification

# 18 Alliance, Working Group 10
[7] 3GPP 28.545, “Management and orchestration; Fault Supervision (FS)”, 3GPP, v16.1.0, 2020-09 [8] 3GPP 28.541, “Management and orchestration; 5G Network Resource Model (NRM)”, 3GPP, v17.4.0, 2021-04 [9] ORAN-WG4.CUS.0-v12.00 “Control, User and Synchronization Plane Specification”, O-RAN Alliance, Working

# 22 Group 4
[10] 3GPP 32.342, “File Transfer (FT); Integration Reference Point (IRP)”, 3GPP, v17.0.0, 2022-04 [11] 3GPP 32.302, “Configuration Management (CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP)”, 3GPP, v16.0.0, 2020-07 [12] O-RAN.SFG.O-RAN-Security-Requirements-Specifications-v01.00 “O-RAN Security Requirements

# 27 Specification”, O-RAN Alliance, Security Focus Group
[13] 3GPP TS 28.622: Telecommunication management; Generic Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS), 3GPP, v16.7.1, 2021-04 [14] 3GPP TS 28.552: “Management and orchestration; 5G performance measurements”, 3GPP, v17.4.0 (2021-09) [15] RFC 7589, “Using the NETCONF Protocol over Transport Layer Security (TLS) with Mutual X.509 Authentication”, IETF, June 2015 [16] 3GPP TS 38.141-1: “Base Station (BS) conformance testing Part 1: Conducted conformance testing”, 3GPP, v16.9.0 (2021-10) [17] 3GPP TS 38.141-2: “Base Station (BS) conformance testing Part 2: Radiated conformance testing”, 3GPP, v16.9.0 (2021-10) [18] 3GPP TS 38.104: “Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception”, 3GPP, v16.9.0 (2021-10) Copyright © 2024 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Your use is subject to copyright statement on the cover page of this specification

# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP

# 26 TR 21.905 [1].
Advanced Sleep Mode (ASM): Advanced sleep mode may be used to achieve energy saving by disabling some fraction of the O-RU’s processing for a defined or undefined period of time.

# 29 Antenna Line: connection between O-RU and antenna
C-Plane: Control Plane: refers specifically to real-time control between O-DU and O-RU, and should not be confused with the UE’s control plane c_eAxC: component eAxC: a portion of an eAxC flow assigned to a specific O-DU processing element. DL: Downlink: data flow towards the radiating antenna (generally on the LLS interface) DU: Distributed Unit: a logical node hosting RLC/MAC/High-PHY/Low-PHY layers and RF processing layers based on a higher layer functional split for integrated model eAxC: extended Antenna-Carrier: a data flow for a single antenna (or spatial stream) for a single carrier in a single sector. Emergency Wake-up: In TRX Control and Advanced Sleep Mode energy saving techniques, the CU-Plane processing unit of O-RU may be turned off, hence O-DU can’t wake-up the O-RU from sleep through C-Plane. When C-Plane is disabled, M-Plane shall be used to abort the ongoing Advanced Sleep Modes and TRX Control. Energy Saving Policy: A set of rules and conditions defined by the MnS Consumer that, when provided to O-DU, shall be used by O-DU to decide when and for how long to utilize specific type of Energy Saving. As such, Energy Saving Copyright © 2024 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Your use is subject to copyright statement on the cover page of this specification Policy is not exact command that triggers addressee to immediately apply specific Advanced Sleep Mode or to activate / Note: It is not prohibited for single policy to contain rules and conditionals for more than one Energy Saving Mode. FFT/iFFT: Fast Fourier Transform/inverse Fast Fourier Transform: an algorithm that computes discrete Fourier transform or its inverse. High-PHY: those portions of the PHY processing on the O-DU side of the fronthaul interface, including FEC encode/decode, scrambling, and modulation/demodulation.

# 8 IOC: Information Object Class.
LLS: Lower Layer Split: logical interface between O-DU and O-RU when using a lower layer (intra-PHY based) functional split. LLS-C: Lower Layer Split Control-plane: logical interface between O-DU and O-RU when using a lower layer functional split. Low-PHY: those portions of the PHY processing on the O-RU side of the fronthaul interface, including FFT/iFFT, digital beamforming, and PRACH extraction and filtering. M-Plane: Management Plane: refers to non-real-time management operations between the O-DU and the O-RU MnS Consumer: The Network Element that consumes and utilizes Management Services (here SMO or non-RT RIC). MnS Producer: The Network Element that produces Management Services (here O-DU or O-CU). Multi O-DU O-RU: An O-RU that supports the SHARED-ORU-MULTI-ODU feature Multi-Operator O-RU: An O-RU that supports the SHARED-ORU-MULTI-OPERATOR and SHARED-ORU-

# 20 MULTI-ODU features
O-CU: O-RAN Central Unit: a logical node hosting in the Control Plane (O-CU-CP) the RRC and the Control Plane part of the PDCP protocol and in the User Plane (O-CU-UP) the user plane part of the PDCP protocol and the SDAP protocol. O-CU-CP: O-RAN Central Unit: Control Plane: a logical node hosting the RRC and the control plane part of the PDCP protocol. O-CU-UP: O-RAN Central Unit: User Plane: a logical node hosting the user plane part of the PDCP protocol and the

# 26 SDAP protocol.
O-DU: O-RAN Distributed Unit — A logical node hosting RLC/MAC/High-PHY layers based on a lower layer functional split. O-RU: O-RAN Radio Unit: a logical node hosting Low-PHY layer and RF processing based on a higher layer functional split in 3-box model. This is similar to 3GPP’s “TRP” or “RRH” but more specific in including the Low-PHY layer

# 31 (FFT/iFFT, PRACH extraction).
Port: End of a transport link – in most cases this is an optical port Port Number: A number which identifies a port (see Port). In case of SFP/SFP+ port, port number value is 0 to N-1 where N is number of ports in the device. Numbers 0 to N-1 are assigned to ports in order following order of labels on the device (labels for ports are not necessarily numbers starting from zero) S-Plane: Synchronization Plane: refers to traffic between the O-RU or O-DU to a synchronization controller which is generally an IEEE-1588 Grand Master (however, Grand Master functionality may be embedded in the O-DU). Shared O-RU Host: The role performed by the NETCONF client associated with the operator of a Multi-Operator O- RU who determines how the resources of a Multi-Operator O-RU are partitioned between Shared Resource Operators. Shared O-RU Host O-DU: The O-DU performing Shared O-RU Host role. Shared Resource Operator: The role performed by the NETCONF client associated with an operator that utilizes the carrier resources of a Multi-Operator O-RU. The Shared Resource Operator is allocated a Shared Resource Operator identity by the Shared O-RU Host.
> NOTE: A NETCONF client of an operator can simultaneously perform the Shared O-RU Host role and the Shared
Resource Operator role. Alternatively, a NETCONF client of an operator can only perform the Shared O-RU Host role and not Shared Resource Operator role, in which case the operator corresponds to a neutral host operator. Shared Resource Operator O-DU: The O-DU performing Shared Resource Operator role. Copyright © 2024 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Your use is subject to copyright statement on the cover page of this specification Spatial stream: the data flow on the DL associated with precoded data (may be same as layers or different if there is expansion in the precoding), and on UL associated with the number of outputs from the digital beamforming (sometimes called “beams”). SSM: Synchronization Status Message: part of ITU G.781 and G.8264 standards. TRX Control: TRX control may be used to achieve energy saving through disabling one or more O-RU antenna array elements for a defined or undefined period of time. U-Plane: User Plane: refers to IQ sample data between O-DU and O-RU. UL: Uplink: data flow away from the radiating antenna (generally on the LLS interface)

## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the symbols [given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A symbol defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same symbol, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].

## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in

# 16 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].

# 17 ALD Antenna Line Device

# 18 ASM Advanced Sleep Mode

# 19 AVP Average Power

# 20 BCN BTS Clock Number

# 21 CRC Cyclic Redundancy Check

# 22 CUS Control/User/Synchronization

# 23 CU-CP Central Unit Control Plane

# 24 CU-UP Central Unit User Plane

# 25 DHCP Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol

# 26 DMTC DRS Measurement Timing Configuration

# 27 DRS Discovery Reference Signal

# 28 DSCP Differentiated Services Code Point

# 29 DU Distributed Unit

# 30 ESP Energy Saving Policy

# 31 FH Fronthaul

# 32 HDLC High-Level Data Link Control
lls-M Lower Layer Split Management plane

# 34 LAA Licensed Assisted Access

# 35 LBM Loop-Back Message

# 36 LBR Loop Back Reply

# 37 LBT Listen Before Talk

# 38 ME Maintenance Entity

# 39 MEP Maintenance association End Point

# 40 MnS Management Service
Copyright © 2024 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Your use is subject to copyright statement on the cover page of this specification

# 3 NETCONF Network Configuration Protocol

# 4 NMS Network Management System

# 5 O-CU O-RAN Central Unit

# 6 O-CU-CP O-RAN Central Unit Control Plane

# 7 O-CU-UP O-RAN Central Unit User Plane

# 8 O-DU O-RAN Distributed Unit

# 9 O-RU O-RAN Radio Unit

# 10 PDV Packet Delay Variation

# 11 PNF Physical Network Function

# 12 QoS Quality of Service

# 13 RET Remote Electrical Tilt

# 14 RPC Remote Procedure Call

# 15 SFP Small Form-factor Pluggable
sFTP Secure File Transfer Protocol or SSH File Transfer Protocol

# 17 SLAAC Stateless Address Auto Configuration

# 18 SMO Service Management and Orchestration

# 19 SRO Shared Resource Operator

# 20 SSH Secure Shell

# 21 TRX Transceiver

# 22 VLAN Virtual LAN

# 23 YANG Yet Another Next Generation

## 3.4 Conventions
This management plane specification includes cross references to a set of associated YANG models. Text may reference particular YANG leafs, notifications and remote procedure calls (RPCs). In order to assist in readability, all cross references to YANG defined elements will keep the identical case format as defined in the corresponding YANG model, with the font-weight set to bold. This convention applies only to text and not to YANG elements embedded into figures. If there is any conflict between the YANG models and the accompanying text description in this specification, the definition of the YANG models shall take precedence.

## 3.5 Revision and compatibility handling
The revision statement in the YANG models shall be used to describe future revisions to the models that are backwards compatible. Backwards incompatible changes will be addressed by incrementing the number used as part of the model name and namespace, effectively creating a new YANG model. The format of the namespace used in all O-RAN YANG models is “urn:o-ran:”<model-name>“:”<model-number>, where the initial <model-number> used in a newly defined YANG model is “1.0”. Where this document makes reference to models, irrespective of their backward compatibility, a generic <model-number> of “x.y” is used to enable reference to all versions of the namespace for a particular <model- name>. Copyright © 2024 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Your use is subject to copyright statement on the cover page of this specification The revision statement in all YANG models includes a reference statement used to cross-reference to the first version of this document where the corresponding description was introduced. For example, the reference in all revision statements for the initial O-RAN models include cross-reference to “ORAN-WG5.MP.0-v01.00”. The revision statement of the YANG models also includes a description which is used to track the versioning of the YANG model. All revision statement descriptions will begin with “version ”<a>“.”<b>“.”<c>, where <a>, <b> and <c> are used to reflect the version of the YANG model, where <a> corresponds to the first digit of the O-RAN WG5 O1 interface specification for O-DU version where the corresponding description was first introduced, corresponding to <x> in subclause 1.1 <b> is incremented when errors in the YANG model have been corrected <c> is incremented only in working versions of the YANG model indicating incremental changes during the editing process

# 4 High Level Description

## 4.1 Top level functional description, terminology, including hybrid,
hierarchical

### 4.1.1 Architecture for O-RAN WG5 functional split
This O1 interface facilitates the initialization, configuration and management of the O-DU to support the functional split. Please refer to O-RAN OAM Architecture [i.5] for more details on architecture and functional split.

### 4.1.2 O1 interface for O-DU architecture model
O1 interface for O-DU is used for supporting the management features including “start up” installation, PNF software management, provisioning management, performance management, fault management and file management towards the

# 25 O-DU.
The O1 interface for O-DU is also used to support O-RU management. For this purpose, specific models are used to aggregate the configuration of individual O-RU functions (deployed as separate entities) and present them over the O1 interface of the O-DU(s) connected to them. The management of these O-RUs may be performed according to either Hierarchical model or Hybrid model, depending on the particular deployment; see clause 12 for details regarding these two models.

### 4.1.3 Transport Network
Based on the transport topology, various modes of network connectivity are possible between O-DU and O-CU and SMO. The basic requirement for O1 interface for O-DU is to have end to end IP connectivity between the O-DU and the elements managing it. The O-DU shall support either IPv4 or IPv6 and optionally support dual stack (IPv4 and IPv6). This version of the O1 interface for O-DU has not been defined to be able to operate in the presence of any Network Address Translation (NAT) between the O-DU and elements managing it.

## 4.2 Interfaces
The interface between the management system and the O-DU is O1. The general requirement for O1 interface for O-DU is aligned with [6], clause 4 General Requirements. Heartbeat Notification for O-DU is aligned with [6], clause 6.6.1 Heartbeat Notification. Copyright © 2024 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Your use is subject to copyright statement on the cover page of this specification

# 5 PNF Startup and Registration Management

## 5.1 Introduction
O-DU may be deployed as PNF as described in O1 Interface Specification 0, clause 6.7 PNF Startup and Registration

# 4 Management Services.

## 5.2 PNF Plug-n-Play
PNF Plug-n-Play for O-DU is aligned with O1 Interface Specification 0, clause 6.7.1 PNF Plug-n-Play.

## 5.3 PNF Registration
PNF Registration for O-DU is aligned with O1 Interface Specification 0, clause 6.7.2 PNF Registration.

## 5.4 NETCONF Connection Establishment

### 5.4.1 NETCONF Authentication
This version of the O1 Specification uses mutual authentication based on X.509 certificates [3]. Mutual Public key-based client/server authentication shall be used for authenticating the server (RFC 4253 [4]) by the clients. and authenticating the client by the server. For the purposes of NETCONF user authentication, the mapping between certificates and user-names is provided by the SubjectAltName field of the X.509 certificate [3], which means that the user name is coded in the subjectAltName. The username is determined from the subjectAltName using the rules defined in RFC 7589 [15]. Note: In RFC7589, different user-name and SubjectAltName mappings are possible. O-RAN SFG is working on extensive solution designed for O1 interface. Further alignment with generic O1 Interface Specification [6] will be needed once done.

## 5.5 NETCONF Access Control
This subclause provides the access control for NETCONF client. Its motivation is when multiple NETCONF clients (users) exist, access control mechanism allows to limit some operation for one client but full access for the other client. For the O1 interface, in order to support interoperable access control management, the NETCONF Server shall follow privilege access control requirements which are specified in O-RAN Security Requirements Specification [12] clause

# 25 3.2.2.1.2.
For accessing O-RU YANG data models access control please refer to clause 6.5 of [2].

## 5.6 NETCONF Protocol Aspects

### 5.6.1 Introduction
This clause covers aspects of NETCONF protocol usage by the O-DU. For full list of supported services please refer to clause 6.1 of [6].

### 5.6.2 NETCONF Capability Discovery
The O-DU advertises its NETCONF capabilities in the NETCONF Hello message. The Hello message provides an indication of support for standard features defined in NETCONF RFCs [i.1] as well as support for specific namespaces. Copyright © 2024 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Your use is subject to copyright statement on the cover page of this specification NETCONF capabilities are exchanged between the O-DU and the NETCONF client(s). For full list of supported operations and capabilities please refer to clause 6.1.1. of [6]

### 5.6.3 NETCONF Session Termination
For O-DU NETCONF Session Termination functionality description, please refer to clause 6.1.9 of [6].

### 5.6.4 NETCONF Session Establishment
The O-DU NETCONF Session Establishment functionality description, please refer to clause 6.1.8 of [6].

# 6 Heartbeat Management Services

## 6.1 Heartbeat Notification
Heartbeat Notification for O-DU is aligned with [6], clause 6.6.1 Heartbeat Notification.

## 6.2 Heartbeat Control
Heartbeat Control for O-DU is aligned with [6], clause 6.6.2 Heartbeat Control.

# 7 PNF Software Management

## 7.1 Introduction
The PNF Software Management Services specified in O1 Interface Specification [6] is adapted to the software management for O-DU. Please refer clause 6.8 of [6]. This clause describes the behaviour of O-DU in the software management process between the SMO, O-DU and O-RU.

## 7.2 O-DU Software Management

# 20 Please refer to clause 6.8 of [6].

## 7.3 O-RU Software Management

### 7.3.1 Hierarchical Model

# 23 7.3.1.1 Preparation

# 24 7.3.1.1.1 Aggregated YANG data model
O-DU provides the software inventory information of each connected O-RU to the SMO by o-ran-agg-software- management.yang that has a mount point. To mount the software-inventory instance in o-ran-software- management.yang defined in [6] under the mount point, O-DU shall prepare the ietf-yang-schema-mount.yang with appropriate configuration as shown in the following example. Copyright © 2024 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Your use is subject to copyright statement on the cover page of this specification Example: configuration of the ietf-yang-schema-mount.yang in xml format for software management.

# 3 <namespace>

# 4 <prefix>o-ran-swm</prefix>

# 5 <uri>urn:o-ran:software-management:1.0</uri>

# 6 </namespace>

# 7 <mount-point>

# 8 <module>o-ran-agg-software-management</module>

# 9 <label>swm-root</label>

# 10 <config>false</config>

# 11 <inline></inline>

# 12 </mount-point>

# 13 </schema-mounts>
In this case, building the data tree such as following image, which is not created or validated by a tool (e.g. pyang), is expected and the SMO will retrieve it from O-DU. module: o-ran-aggregation-base

# 18 +--rw aggregated-o-ru

# 19 +--ro recovered-ru-instance-ids* [ru-instance-id]

# 20 | +--ro ru-instance-id ru-ref

# 21 +--rw aggregation* [ru-instance]

# 22 +--rw ru-instance -> /aggregated-o-ru/recovered-ru-instance-ids/ru-instance-id

# 23 +--rw or-agg-swm:software-management-model

# 24 +--mp swm-root

# 25 +--ro software-inventory

# 26 +--ro software-slot* [name]

# 27 +--ro name string

# 28 +--ro status enumeration

# 29 +--ro active? boolean

# 30 +--ro running? boolean

# 31 +--ro access? enumeration

# 32 +--ro product-code? -> /hw:hardware/component/o-ran-hw:product-code

# 33 +--ro vendor-code? string

# 34 +--ro build-id? string

# 35 +--ro build-name? string

# 36 +--ro build-version? string

# 37 +--ro files* [name]

# 38 +--ro name string

# 39 +--ro version? string

# 40 +--ro local-path string

# 41 +--ro integrity? enumeration

# 42 7.3.1.2 Software inventory

# 43 7.3.1.2.1 Description
The SMO retrieves the software inventory information of O-RU by using the aggregated yang data model.

# 45 7.3.1.2.2 Procedures

# 46 Precondition:
- O-DU has the software inventory information of connected O-RUs, which is retrieved in startup with O-RU.
Copyright © 2024 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Your use is subject to copyright statement on the cover page of this specification

# 3 1. SMO establishes NETCONF session with O-DU.
2. O-DU receives NETCONF <rpc><get><filter> from SMO where software aggregated model is indicated to retrieve information of software slot of O-RU. 3. O-DU returns requested data in NETCONF <rpc-reply> response.

# 7 4. SMO terminates NETCONF session with O-DU.

# 9 7.3.1.3 Software Download

# 10 7.3.1.3.1 Description
The SMO triggers the software download to O-RU by sending software download rpc defined in [6] with ru-instance-id which identifies a target O-RU. After software download for O-RU, O-DU performs the software install to O-RU according to [2].

# 14 7.3.1.3.2 Procedures
Copyright © 2024 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Your use is subject to copyright statement on the cover page of this specification

# 3 1. SMO establishes NETCONF session with O-DU.

# 4 2. SMO sends NETCONF <rpc><software-download><remote-file-path><softwarePackage> with ru-instance-id to trigger a download of the software and to identify the target O-RU.
a. O-DU validates the request.

# 7 3. O-DU returns NETCONF <rpc-reply><software-download-status>.

# 8 4. SMO terminates NETCONF session with O-DU.
Alternative 1: O-RU directly downloads the software package from software server

# 10 5. O-DU sends <rpc><software-download> toward O-RU with remote-file-path.

# 11 6. O-RU returns <rpc-reply><software-download>.

# 12 7. O-RU downloads the software package.
Alternative 2: O-RU indirectly downloads the software package from software server 8. O-DU downloads software package of O-RU from software server and temporarily stores in the storage on itself.
> NOTE: storing SW package in O-DU may be removed after step 14.
b. O-DU decides whether download is needed or not by comparing manifest file and information of software slot.

# 18 9. O-DU sends <rpc><software-download> toward O-RU with remote-file-path.

# 19 10. O-RU returns <rpc-reply><software-download>.

# 20 11. O-RU downloads the software package.
12. O-RU sends <notification><download-event> to notify the result of download process. Copyright © 2024 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Your use is subject to copyright statement on the cover page of this specification 13. O-DU sends <rpc><software-install> to perform the software install for O-RU. O-DU selects an install slot based on [2].

# 3 14. O-RU returns <rpc-reply><software-install>.
15. O-RU sends <notification><install-event> to notify the result of install process. 16. When download operation is completed, O-DU sends download-event NETCONF downloadFile notification to SMO with the final status of the download (success or the reason for failure).

# 9 7.3.1.4 SW activate

# 10 7.3.1.4.1 Description
When O-DU receives NETCONF <rpc><software-activate><softwarePackage> with ru-instance-id from the SMO, O- DU executes the software activation mechanism to O-RU indicated by ru-instance-id.

# 13 7.3.1.4.2 Procedures

# 15 Figure 7-3: Software Activate

# 17 1. SMO establishes NETCONF session with O-DU.
2. SMO sends NETCONF <rpc><software-activate><softwarePackage> with ru-instance-id to trigger an activation of the software slot on O-RU. a. O-DU validates the request. 3. O-DU returns status to the SMO in the NETCONF <rpc-reply> response.

# 22 4. SMO terminates NETCONF session with O-DU.
5. O-DU sends <rpc><software-activation> to activate the software slot on O-RU. The most recently used slot to install is selected.

# 25 6. O-RU returns status into <rpc-reply>.

# 26 7. O-DU recieves <notification><activation-event>.
Copyright © 2024 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Your use is subject to copyright statement on the cover page of this specification 8. O-DU sends <rpc><reset> toward O-RU to apply the newly installed and activated software.

### 7.3.2 Hybrid Model
In the hybrid architecture for O-RU, this clause is not applicable as O-DU is not responsible for the SW management of O-RU. In such case, the SMO performs the software management of O-DU by [6], and the software management of O- RU by O-RAN WG4 Management Plane Specification [2]. The SMO may perform the software management of O-RU by O1 Interface Specification [6] if O-RU supports [6] for its management.

# 8 Performance Assurance Management

## 8.1 Performance Data File Reporting
Performance Data File Reporting function for O-DU is aligned with O1 Interface Specification [6] except following part.

# 16 O-RU performance counters measured at O-RU:
In the hierarchical architecture of O-RAN WG4 Management Plane Specification [2], O-DU as NETCONF client will control the performance measurement of O-RU as NETCONF server. The information to be collected in O-RU is also controlled by SMO via O-DU by [2]. They are defined in Annex A.14. The measured result file created by O-RU will be periodically uploaded to O-DU’s internal storage aligned with [2] and O-DU will handle it by Performance Data File Reporting function aligned with O1 interface spec [6]. As the alternative way, the measured result file created by O-RU will be forwarded to the FTP server configured by O-DU. For the latter case, Performance Assurance MnS Consumer shall provide the remote-SFTP-upload-path and its credential to O-RU that can upload the PM data file directly.

### 8.1.1 PM File Content
The Measurement Type and definitions for performance counters are described in both clause 6.3 of O1 interface specification [6] and Annex A of this specification. All measurements are optional and can be selected based on service deployment.

### 8.1.2 PM File Naming
PM file naming is specified in [6] clause 6.3.1.7.

### 8.1.3 PM File XML Format
PM file XML format is specified in [6] clause 6.3.1.8.

## 8.2 Performance Data Streaming
Performance Data Streaming for O-DU is aligned with [6]

## 8.3 Performance Assurance Control
Performance Assurance Control for “O1 interface for O-DU” is aligned with [6]. Copyright © 2024 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Your use is subject to copyright statement on the cover page of this specification In addition to the parameters defined in Measurement Control, the following two parameters are additionally defined for

### 8.3.1 Performance Assurance Control for O-RU performance counters

# 13 O-RU performance counters measured at O-DU:
In the hierarchical architecture of O-RAN WG4 Management Plane Specification [2], O-DU as NETCONF client will measure the performance counters defined in Annex A.13. The measurementTypes and gPs for O-RU performance counters measured at O-DU are defined in aggregation model. A part of yang tree structure related to this subclause is shown as follows. module: o-ran-aggregation-base

# 19 +--rw aggregated-o-ru

# 20 +--ro recovered-ru-instance-ids* [ru-instance-id]

# 21 | +--ro ru-instance-id ru-ref

# 22 +--rw aggregation* [ru-instance]

# 23 +--rw ru-instance -> /aggregated-o-ru/recovered-ru-instance-ids/ru-instance-id

# 24 +--ro or-agg-pm:measurementsList* [idx]

# 25 | +--ro or-agg-pm:idx uint32

# 26 | +--ro or-agg-pm:measurementTypes* string

# 27 | +--ro or-agg-pm:gPs* uint32
On the other hand, the measurement control such as selecting the counters to be reported is performed using 3GPP SA5 data model in the same way as other measurement counters for O-DU.

# 31 O-RU performance counters measured at O-RU:
The measurement activation and de-activation of O-RU are controlled by SMO by aggregation model according to [2] clause 10.2. The details of configuration method of aggregation model are described in clause 12.

# 9 Fault Supervision Management

## 9.1 General
Fault Supervision Management allows a managed element to provide asynchronous Fault notification to the authorized manager of the managed element. O-DU should have a capability to send fault notifications and corresponding authorized manager should have a capability to receive and handle the fault notifications for managed element. The requirement of Fault Supervision Management is based on the Fault Supervision Management Services of O1 interface specification [6] that contains 3GPP TS 28.545 [7] such as the requirement of fault notification and control. This clause describes the fault supervision management for O-DU specific aspects. General architecture of Fault Supervision Management is aligned with the Fault Supervision Management Services of

# 44 O1 interface specification [6].
Copyright © 2024 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Your use is subject to copyright statement on the cover page of this specification

## 9.2 Definition of the Operations for Fault Events
O-DU Fault Supervision Management is specified in clause 6.2.2 of O1 interface specification [6]. Fault Supervision Management subscription is specified in clause 6.1.7 of O1 interface specification [6].

## 9.3 Definition of Notifications as Fault Events
O-DU as for Fault Supervision Data Report service producer notifies the JSON encoded asynchronous notifications to Fault Supervision MnS Consumer using REST/HTTPS. All O1 fault notification types are specified in clause 6.2.1.4 of

# 7 O1 interface specification [6].

## 9.4 Message Format for Fault Events
An O-RAN fault notification format is specified in clause 6.2.1.4 of O1 interface specification [6].

## 9.5 O-RU Alarms Management by O-DU in Hierarchical Model
In hierarchical model, O-DU is responsible for managing AlarmRecords in the AlarmList, including O-DU alarms and O-RU alarms. O-DU receives NETCONF based alarm notification from the O-RU, converts NETCONF based alarm notification to O-RAN fault notification, updates AlarmRecords and delivers it to SMO. O-DU alarms and O-RU alarms may have the same alarm-id, they are distinguished using nfcNamingCode in the VES common event header. Figure 9-1: Operation to merge O-RU Alarms by O-DU The field mapping between NETCONF based alarm notification and VES based Fault3gpp notification is as in the following table: Copyright © 2024 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Your use is subject to copyright statement on the cover page of this specification O-RU NETCONF SQ ONAP VES common ONAP VES event SQ Remark based fault event header field parameter name notification name in ‘fault3gppFields’ fault-id M - alarmId O fault-source M - additionalInformation O affected-objects

# M - additionalInformation O
- name
fault-severity M - If is-cleared is TRUE, perceivedSeverity shall be updated with "Cleared". perceivedSeverity M If is-cleared is FALSE, notificationType is-cleared M - shall be updated with fault-severity. fault-text O - additionalInformation O If is-cleared is TRUE, event-time shall be mapped to lastEpochMicrosec. startEpochMicrosec event-time M - M If is-cleared is FALSE, event-time shall lastEpochMicrosec be mapped to both startEpochMicrosec and lastEpochMicrosec. Table 1: Mapping of O-RU NETCONF based fault notification to ONAP VES in ‘fault3gppFields’

# 10 File Management

## 10.1 Introduction
This clause illustrates File Management between the O-DU and the SMO/OAM. The File Management Service is applied to manage file transfer for different types of data file such as Bulk CM file, Call and UE trace file, Performance Measurement result file, etc. The following file management use cases are supported for the O-DU:

# 10 • List available files

# 11 • Transfer file

# 12 • Download file

# 13 • File ready notification
The detailed description of the use cases including file management operations and procedures as well as sequence diagram can be found in the O1 Interface Specification [6], clause 6.5. This clause shall describe the handling of files that are stored in the O-DU which are generated by the O-DU itself or transferred from another server like O-RU(s). One scenario would be that files stored in the O-DU file repository are transferred from the O-RU or from some other file servers. The files handling between O-DU and O-RU are defined in the O-RAN WG4 Management Plane Specification [2]. The data files that are stored in the O-DU shall follow clause 8.1 of this specification. Copyright © 2024 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Your use is subject to copyright statement on the cover page of this specification

## 10.2 File Structure
The file system structure for the O-DU is defined as for file management procedures defined in the rest of this clause. If the O-DU’s physical file structure differs from the logical file structure defined below, the O-DU shall perform the mapping of related files into defined structure. The O-DU shall support the standardized folders for files generated by the O-DU itself and files transferred from O-RUs.

# 6 The following standardized folders are defined:

# 7 › O-RAN/O-DU/PM/ for performance data files

# 8 › O-RAN/O-DU/CM/ for configuration files (except inventory),

# 9 › O-RAN/O-DU/NL/ for notification log file

# 10 › O-RAN/O-DU/CT/ for call trace files

# 11 › O-RAN/O-DU/OT/ for other files
› O-RAN/O-DU/O-RU<RC>/ for files from O-RU which shall follow [2] logical file structure. The RC parameter is a running count, starting with the value of "1", and shall be appended only if the filename is not unique, i.e. more than one file is generated, and all other parameters of the file name are identical. › The O-DU may additionally support vendor defined folders which are out of scope of this specification.

## 10.3 Notification notifyFileReady
The file ready notification is applied when the management data files have been prepared in the O-DU. The O-DU will send notification using notifyFileReady VES event to subscribed SMO/OAM, in order to notify the availability of the file(s) as defined in [6]. The following input parameters are provided by the file ready notification (see also 3GPP TS 32.342 [10]): objectClass Notification header – see 3GPP TS 32.302 [11]. It shall carry the FTIRP class name. objectInstance Notification header - see 3GPP TS 32.302 [11]. It shall carry the DN of the FTIRP. notificationId Notification header - see 3GPP TS 32.302 [11]. eventTime Notification header - see 3GPP TS 32.302 [11]. systemDN Notification header - see 3GPP TS 32.302 [11]. notificationType Notification header – see 3GPP TS 32.302 [11]. fileInfoList It specifies the information of the available file. additionalText It carries vendor-specific semantics not defined in the present document.

# 21 Table 2: Parameters list for Notification notifyFileReady
When a file is available, the O-DU sends a notifyFileReady notification to the SMO using HTTP/TLS as defined in [6]. Copyright © 2024 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Your use is subject to copyright statement on the cover page of this specification

## 10.4 File Management Operation: listAvailableFiles
This listAvailableFiles operation for the SMO/OAM is applied to obtain the available file list with files location and type from the O-DU by reading the AvailableFileList IOC as specified in [10]. SMO/OAM may read the O-RU available files which are already stored in the O-DU and can be represented with AvailableFileList IOC as specified in [10]. Detailed procedure can be found in clause 6.5.2 of [6].

## 10.5 File Management Operation: transferFile
The Transfer File Service provides the capability for the SMO/OAM to transfer files from or to the O-DU. The SMO/OAM may perform this action as a result of a FileReady notification from the O-DU informing SMO/OAM that a file is now available to transfer. In any case, the file transfer is performed using a secure file transfer protocol (SFTP or FTPeS) from or to the location provided by the O-DU. The SMO/OAM triggers file transfer operation to the O-DU. Detailed procedure can be found in clause 6.5.3 of [6].

## 10.6 File Management Operation: downloadFile
The Download File Service provides the capability for the SMO/OAM to request the O-DU to download the file(s) when the SMO/OAM has a file that needs to be downloaded. In any case, the file download is performed using a secure file transfer protocol (SFTP or FTPeS) from the location provided by the SMO/OAM. The O-DU replies to the SMO/OAM with the result of the download procedure. Detailed procedure can be found in clause 6.5.4 of [6]

# 11 Synchronization Aspects

## 11.1 Introduction
This clause provides the Management Plane’s interactions with various aspects of the time synchronization of the O-DU. In general, the O-DU is responsible for managing its synchronization status, to select one or more synchronization input source(s) in the LLS-C1/LLS-C2/LLS-C3 deployments and act as synchronization master in LLS-C1/LLS-C2 deployments.

# 27 Synchronization deployment options are defined in the [9].
O-RU synchronization is defined by WG4, refer for details to the [2]. Refer to ITU-T recommendations [i.6], [i.4], [i.2], [i.3] for details of synchronization. Copyright © 2024 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Your use is subject to copyright statement on the cover page of this specification Prerequisite is that the O-DU synchronization parameters have been provisioned to the O-DU;
- Before O-DU can start to synchronize its internal clock by external timing source.
- Before O-DU begins its function as master clock.
Following clauses contain main parameters required for O-DU when it is receiving synchronization from external timing source. All parameters are defined in o-ran-synchronization.yang, which shall be read together with this document.

## 11.2 Synchronization

### 11.2.1 Synchronization status

# 8 The read-only sync-state indicates O-DU synchronization status:
- LOCKED: O-DU clock timing is phase-locked to a reference timing signal. Refer also to [i.4] definition.
- HOLDOVER: O-DU clock has lost its controlling reference input and is using stored data, acquired while in locked
operation, to control its output. Refer also to [i.4] definition.

# 13 Note: HOLDOVER state is optional.
- FREERUN: O-DU clock has lost its controlling reference input and the output frequency accuracy is outside of
required accuracy. Refer also to [i.4] definition. When state of O-DU synchronization changes, O-DU shall send notifyMOIAttributeValueChange notification VES event about change. O-DU shall raise appropriate alarm in case of state change to HOLDOVER or FREERUN. O-DU shall cancel alarm when state changes back to LOCKED. O-DU shall update information which timing source(s) O-DU is using to synchronize its own clock. O-DU shall update this to ptp-status, synce-status and gnss-status containers described in following clauses. Copyright © 2024 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Your use is subject to copyright statement on the cover page of this specification

### 11.2.2 Synchronization capabilities
The read-only container sync-capability tells which timing source type(s) O-DU is capable to support.

### 11.2.3 Synchronization configuration

# 8 The container sync-config contains:
Configurable list sync-priority-config, which is priority order list to control O-DU to select timing source(s).

# 10 Timing source types:

# 11 • GNSS

# 12 • PTP

# 13 • SYNCE
Because SyncE only provides a frequency signal, it can only be used in combination with another timing source providing phase synchronization. Specific configurable parameter synce-enabled is used to control SyncE usage.

### 11.2.4 PTP configuration

# 17 The container ptp-config contains:
- needed parameters for G.8275.1 and G.8275.2 configuration.
Copyright © 2024 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Your use is subject to copyright statement on the cover page of this specification
- domain-number. This indicates Domain Number for PTP announce messages.
- accepted-clock-classes. This is a list of PTP acceptable Clock Classes
- delay-asymmetry. The parameter defines static phase error in the recovered PTP timing signal to be
compensated at the device

# 5 • local-priority. The parameter defines local priority.
PTP profile selection of G.8275.1 or G.8275.2 The container g-8275-1-config contains:
- multicast-mac-address. The parameter defines the destination MAC address, used by the O-DU in the egress PTP
messages. Allowed values:
- FORWARDABLE (means that PTP shall use 01-1B-19-00-00-00 destination MAC address)
- NONFORWARDABLE (means that PTP shall use 01-80-C2-00-00-0E destination MAC address)
The container g-8275-2-config contains:
- list master-ip-configuration. Defines list of ip configuration of devices acting as ptp signal source.

# 14 - ip-address. The parameter defines master IP address.

### 11.2.5 PTP status

# 17 Container ptp-status contains:
- reporting-period, which defines minimum time between ptp-status VES notification reports sent by O-DU.
- sync-source-status, which contains status of PTP as timing source:
- IN_USE - Indicates that this source is the current master clock, i.e. the clock, which the clock, controlled by
the device, is synchronized to.
- USABLE - Indicates that this source is an alternate master, which the clock, controlled by the device, can
potentially synchronize to, i.e. clock class and priority, announced by the master clock is lower, compared to those of the clock, controlled by the device, and the clock class is accepted.
- NOT_USABLE - Indicates that this source is an alternate master, which the clock, controlled by the device,
has an operational connection to, but the class or priority of the master clock is higher or equal to those of the clock, controlled by the device, or the clock class is not accepted.
- NOT_IN_USE - Indicates that this source is an alternate master, which the clock controlled by the device,
has no operational connection to.
- clock-class, which contains clock class of the clock, controlled by the O-DU
- clock-identity, which is received form the PTP source
- sources, which contains a list of PTP sources per local-port-number.
- steps-removed, which value is received PTP Announce message stepsRemoved attribute +1.

# 34 - other attributes from the PTP Announce messages.

### 11.2.6 SyncE configuration
The container synce-config contains configuration parameters for the SyncE: Copyright © 2024 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Your use is subject to copyright statement on the cover page of this specification

### 11.2.7 SyncE status

# 5 Container synce-status contains:
- reporting-period, which defines minimum time between synce-status VES notification reports sent by O-DU.
- sync-source-status, which contains status of SyncE as timing source:
- IN_USE - Indicates that this source is the current master clock, i.e. the clock, which the clock, controlled by
the device, is synchronized to.
- USABLE - Indicates that this source is an alternate master, which the clock, controlled by the device, can
potentially synchronize to, i.e. when the clock quality of the primary SyncE signal (SSM value) is lower, when compared to the alternate master, controlled by the device, and the SSM value is accepted.
- NOT_USABLE - Indicates that this source is an alternate master, which the clock, controlled by the device,
has an operational connection to, but the SSM value is not accepted (i.e clock quality is not in the acceptable range).
- NOT_IN_USE - Indicates that this source is an alternate SyncE clock, which the clock controlled by the
device, has no operational connection to. Note, master identity is not generally available unless ESMC is in use.
- sources, which contains list of SyncE sources per local-port-number, as reference to source MAC address, from
which the SyncE signal is received.

### 11.2.8 GNSS Configuration
If O-DU Yang if-feature GNSS is true and O-DU is connected to GNSS RX (e.g. having some specific non radio interface, which is an example of local PRTC), then container gnss-config contains configuration parameters for the

# 24 GNSS:
- enable, which defines if GNSS receiver shall be enabled or not
- satellite-constellation-list, which defines list of constellations to be used to acquire synchronization:

# 27 • GLONASS

# 28 • GALILEO

# 29 • BEIDOU

# 30 • GPS

### 11.2.9 GNSS Status
If O-DU supports GNSS feature, then container gnss-status contains GNSS status parameters:
- reporting-period, which defines minimum time between gnss-status VES notification reports sent by O-DU.
- sync-source-status, which contains status of GNSS as timing source:
- IN_USE - Indicates that this source is the current master clock, i.e. the clock, which the clock, controlled by
the device, is synchronized to. Copyright © 2024 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Your use is subject to copyright statement on the cover page of this specification
- USABLE - Indicates that this source is an alternate master, which the clock, controlled by the device, can
potentially synchronize to, i.e. clock class and priority, announced by the master clock is lower, compared to those of the clock, controlled by the device, and the SSM value is accepted.
- NOT_USABLE - Indicates that this source is an alternate master, which the clock, controlled by the device,
has an operational connection to, but the class or priority of the master clock is higher or equal to those of the clock, controlled by the device, or the SSM value is not accepted.
- NOT_IN_USE - Indicates that this source is an alternate master, which the clock controlled by the device,
has no operational connection to.

# 9 - gnss-sync-status:
- SYNCHRONIZED - Indicates that GNSS functionality is synchronized.
- ACQUIRING-SYNC - Indicates that GNSS functionality is acquiring sync.
- ANTENNA-DISCONNECTED - Indicates that GNSS functionality has its antenna disconnected.
- BOOTING - Indicates that GNSS functionality is booting.
- ANTENNA-SHORT-CIRCUIT - Indicates that GNSS functionality has an antenna short circuit.

## 11.3 Synchronization master

### 11.3.1 Introduction
O-DU acts as synchronization master for fronthaul in LLS-C1/LLS-C2 deployments. Synchronization deployment options are defined in the [9]. Prerequisite for O-DU to act as synchronization master is that O-DU´s sync-state is LOCKED. Container sync-master-capabilities contains information of O-DU capability to act as a synchronization master and needed configuration parameters. Following clauses contain main parameters required for O-DU acting as synchronization master. All parameters are defined in o-ran-synchronization.yang, which shall be read together with this document.

### 11.3.2 Synchronization master capabilities
Container sync-master-capabilities contains information of O-DU capability to act as a synchronization master:

# 27 - ptp-sync-master-capabilities contains:

# 28 • ptp-sync-master-supported:
TRUE – O-DU can serve as PTP synchronization master. FALSE – O-DU cannot serve as PTP synchronization master.

# 31 - synce-sync-master-capabilities contains:

# 32 • synce-sync-master-supported:
TRUE – O-DU can serve as SyncE synchronization master. FALSE – O-DU cannot serve as SyncE synchronization master.

# 36 Note: [9] considers only SyncE + PTP.
Copyright © 2024 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Your use is subject to copyright statement on the cover page of this specification

### 11.3.3 Synchronization master configuration
Container sync-master-configuration contains configuration parameters for O-DU to act as a synchronization master.

# 3 - ptp-master-configuration contains configuration for PTP master:
- ptp-master-enabled-local-port-numbers. This is reference to portNumber of ExternalEthernetPort to identify
the port, where the PTP is provided.
- domain-number. This parameter indicates Domain Number for PTP announce messages.
- multicast-mac-address. This parameter indicates Ethernet MAC address to be used as destination address

# 8 (forwardable, nonforwardable)
- priority2. This parameter reflects value of the priority2 attribute in PTP Announce messages.

# 10 - synce-master-configuration contains configuration for SyncE master:
- synce-master-enabled-local-port-numbers. This is reference to portNumber of ExternalEthernetPort to
identify the port, where the SyncE is provided. Note! If configuration change is applied during O-DU run time, i.e. transmission to air is ongoing, configuration change may cause service interruption.

### 11.3.4 Master PTP status

# 16 Container ptp-master-status contains
- reporting-period, which defines minimum time between ptp-master-status VES notification reports sent by O-DU.
- ptp-status containing PTP status and PTP message attributes. Refer to [i.2], [i.5] and o-ran-synchronization.yang. In
case O-DU is synchronized using PTP, O-DU will forward PTP message attributes received from the sync-source to master port. In case O-DU is synchronized from GNSS, O-DU shall compute locally PTP message attributes to be sent on the PTP master port.

## 11.4 O-DU and O-RU synchronization relation with cell and carrier
activation / in-activation

### 11.4.1 Cell and carrier activation
O-DU sync-state and O-RU sync-state shall be LOCKED (or HOLDOVER) before O-DU is allowed to send gNB-DU Configuration Update to CU, because it contains Served NR Cells To Add/Modify/Delete IE indicating cells which O-

# 28 CU can activate.
When O-DU receives GNB-CU CONFIGURATION UPDATE including Cells to be Activated List Item IE from CU, O-DU shall check that O-DU sync-state and O-RU sync-state are LOCKED (or HOLDOVER) before O-DU configures to O-RU the value of the parameter “active” at tx-array-carrier element / rx-array-carrier element to “ACTIVE” for the carriers serving the cell(s) requested to be activated. If O-DU sync-state is not LOCKED (and not HOLDOVER), then O-DU shall not activate any cells from Cells to be Activated List Item IE. O-DU shall report back to CU Cells failed to be activated list IE. If O-RU(s) sync-state is not LOCKED (and not HOLDOVER), then O-DU shall not activate carriers related to Cells to be Activated List Item IE, to those O-RU(s) which sync-state is not LOCKED (and not HOLDOVER). O-DU shall report back to CU Cells failed to be activated list IE for cells that O-DU did not activate carrier(s) to O-RU(s). Copyright © 2024 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Your use is subject to copyright statement on the cover page of this specification

### 11.4.2 Cell and carrier in-activation
When O-DU sync-state transits to FREERUN state, O-DU shall disable all carriers in all O-RUs and report to CU in gNB-DU Configuration update Cells Status IE all O-DU cells as inactive. When O-DU receives notification from O-RU that O-RU sync-state transit to FREERUN, O-DU shall disable all carriers in that O-RU and report to CU in gNB-DU Configuration update Cells Status IE all affected cells as inactive. Refer to the [9] clause 9.4.1.3 and [2] clause 15.3.3 for more details.

# 12 Provisioning Management

## 12.1 Introduction
The requirement of Provisioning Management is described in clause 6.1 Provisioning Management Services of O1 Interface Specification [6]. This clause describes the Provisioning Management for O-DU specific aspects in addition to [6]. There are 2 models to be considered for configuration of O-DU:

# 14 A) Hierarchical model
➢ SMO configures O-DU with all instances which are necessary for O-DU and each O-RU under O-DU. These instances are based on 3GPP SA5 data model specified in 3GPP TS 28.541 [8] and O-RAN WG4

# 17 Management Plane Specification [2] YANG data model.
Note: This spec focuses on the model as the first step.

# 19 B) Hybrid model
➢ SMO configures O-DU with all instances which are necessary for O-DU and some O-RAN WG4 Management Plane Specification [2] data model instances which are necessary for each O-RU under O- DU to be configured by O-DU (not by SMO). In such case, SMO configures O-RUs directly using remaining [2] data model instances which don’t need to be configured via O-DU. Note: The categorize of [2] data model instances (either via O-DU or not) is for further study, and this spec will reflect the agreement in future release.

## 12.2 Configuration for Hierarchical Model

### 12.2.1 Configuration Step

# 30 Configuration steps for hierarchical model are following:

# 32 Step1: SMO configures the instances to O-DU
Regarding the data model configured from SMO, there are 4 types:

# 34 1. 3GPP SA5 data model
Following modules are necessary since these are related to O-DU. See TS 28.541 [8] Copyright © 2024 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Your use is subject to copyright statement on the cover page of this specification

# 3 - _3gpp-nr-nrm-nrcelldu.yang

# 4 - _3gpp-nr-nrm-ep.yang

# 5 - _3gpp-nr-nrm-nrsectorcarrier.yang

# 6 - _3gpp-nr-nrm-bwp.yang

# 7 - _3gpp-nr-nrm-beam.yang

# 8 - _3gpp-nr-nrm-commonbeamformingfunction.yang
2. O-RAN WG5 modified model based on 3GPP SA5 These are added prefix “o-ran-“ to the module name of 3GPP SA5. Note: Additional instances should be expected to be proposed to 3GPP for having alignment between 3GPP and O-RAN WG5. Study on the model will be included in the next version of this specification.

# 13 3. O-RAN WG4 data model
O-RAN WG4 data model instances which cannot be mapped from SA5 data model and cannot be created by O-DU’s internal logic, needs to be set from SMO to O-DU by aggregation model based on O-RAN WG4 data model. Which parameters needs to be configured from SMO is described in Annex D

# 17 4. O-RAN WG5 original data model
O-RAN WG5 introduces original data model in order to configure instances which are related to fronthaul operation at O-DU side (such as O-DU transmission/reception window). 3GPP does not assume non integrated O-DU, so O-RAN WG5 introduces original model for supporting fronthaul operations. Note: These modules are not expected to be proposed to 3GPP since these are for fronthaul management operation and 3GPP does not assume fronthaul management. This version includes o-ran-wg5-delay- management.yang. Whether other modules are necessary or not will be studied in the next version of this specification.

# 27 Step2: O-DU configures to O-RU

# 28 O-DU configures to O-RU by several ways:

# 29 1. Mapping 3GPP SA5 parameters to WG4 parameters.

# 30 2. Creating WG4 parameters by internal logic

# 31 3. Configuring based on aggregation model

### 12.2.2 Aggregation model for configuration to O-RU via SMO
In order to configure WG4 data model to O-RU via O-DU from SMO, aggregation model which has a mount point is used. The following is an example of o-ran-uplane-conf.yang: Copyright © 2024 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Your use is subject to copyright statement on the cover page of this specification

# 10 }
import ietf-yang-schema-mount { prefix "yangmnt";

# 14 }
organization "O-RAN Alliance"; contact "www.o-ran.org"; description "This module defines the augmentation of the base aggregation module to configure o-ran-uplane-conf.yang instances to O-RUs.

# 25 ==omitted==
augment "/agg:aggregated-o-ru/agg:aggregation" { container uplane-conf-model { yangmnt:mount-point "uplane-conf-root" { description "Root for o-ran-uplane-conf.yang model supported per O-RU instance";

# 32 }

# 33 }

# 34 }

# 35 }
SMO configures ietf-yang-schema-mount.yang in xml format for uplane configuration.

# 39 <schema-mounts>

# 40 <namespace>

# 41 <prefix> o-ran-uplane-conf</prefix>

# 42 <uri> urn:o-ran:uplane-conf:1.0</uri>

# 43 </namespace>

# 44 <mount-point>

# 45 <module> o-ran-agg-uplane-conf</module>

# 46 <label>uplane-conf-root</label>

# 47 <config>true</config>

# 48 <inline></inline>

# 49 </mount-point>

# 50 </schema-mounts>
SMO configures O-DU for each O-RU by using o-ran-aggregation-base.yang as below. ru-instance indicates O-RU to be configured, with provided aggregated yang module.

# 54 <rpc xmlns=”urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0”…>

# 55 <edit-config>

# 56 <config>

# 57 <aggregated-o-ru xmlns="urn:o-ran:agg-uplane-conf:1.0">

# 58 <aggregation>

# 59 <ru-instance>(mfg-name)_(model-name)_(serial-num)</ru-instance>

# 60 <uplane-conf-model xmlns=”urn:o-ran:agg-uplane-conf:1.0”>

# 61 <uplane-conf-root>

# 62 <user-plane-configuration xmlns=”urn:o-ran:uplane-conf:1.0”>

# 63 <low-level-tx-links>

# 64 <name>low-level-tx-links1</name>

# 65 …

# 66 </rpc>
Copyright © 2024 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Your use is subject to copyright statement on the cover page of this specification id in NRCellDU should be equal to ru-instance-id of O-RU which the NRCellDU belongs to in order to link between

# 3 NRCellDU and O-RU.
After configuring from SMO, O-DU configures to each O-RU based on configured instances from SMO. O-DU distinguishes which O-RU to be configured by ru-instance at above xml from SMO.

## 12.3 Configuration for Hybrid model
This clause will be described in the next version of this specification.

## 12.4 Cell Activation

### 12.4.1 Hierarchical Model
After cell configuration and carrier configuration which are described at clause 12.2, SMO activates cells as Figure 9

# 14 Figure 12-1: Cell activation procedure

### 12.4.2 Hybrid Model
This clause will be described at the next version. Copyright © 2024 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Your use is subject to copyright statement on the cover page of this specification Note: This subclause will follow O-RAN WG4 O1 Alignment WI output.

## 12.5 Notification aspect in hierarchical model

### 12.5.1 Introduction
There are 2 topics to be specified in this specification on notification aspect:
- Subscribing for the O-RU notification from the SMO
➢ Subscription for the O-RU notification specified in WG4 M-Plane specification [2] shall be done by the O-DU and corresponding parameters values shall be stored in the aggregated model of the O-RU. The SMO shall subscribe for parameters of interest changes from the O-RU aggregated model.

# 11 - Forwarding the notification from O-RU via O-DU
➢ Some of the O-RU notification specified in WG4 M-Plane specification [2] should be forwarded to the SMO via the O-DU. In such case the SMO will receive notifications from the O-DU, after subscribing to the parameters of interest from the O-RU aggregated model. Note: Some of the notifications are not necessary to be forwarded to the SMO via the O-DU since it is enough to be noticed by the O-DU. In such case it is not needed for the SMO to make subscription to those parameters in the O-RU aggregated model. Note: In Hybrid model, no additional description is necessary in this spec since O-RU can send notification to SMO directly (no need to send notification via O-DU).

### 12.5.2 Subscribing for O-RU notification from SMO
The O-DU is responsible for representing parameters of the O-RU using aggregated YANG model. The SMO is responsible of subscribing to the parameters of interest from aggregated model using subscription mechanism described in O1 Interface specification [6] clause 6.1.7 Subscription Control.

### 12.5.3 Forwarding the notification from O-RU via O-DU
Once the SMO is subscribed to the parameters of interest as described in clause 12.5.2 of this specification, the SMO will receive notification about each value change of parameter(s) in the O-DU. Copyright © 2024 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Your use is subject to copyright statement on the cover page of this specification Figure 12-2: Notification to the SMO preceded by the O-RU notification Figure 12-3: Notification to the SMO preceded by the O-DU <get> operation Copyright © 2024 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Your use is subject to copyright statement on the cover page of this specification

# 13 Fronthaul Delay Management Support
O-RAN WG4 [2] specifies delay management between O-DU and O-RU, where transmission of data over fronthaul is governed by O-DU transmission/reception window and O-RU transmission/reception window. O-RU transmission/reception window is decided by O-RU itself, and the relevant procedures and data models are specified in WG4 spec [2]. This clause addresses how O-DU transmission/reception window can be determined and the relevant procedures and data models.

# 8 O-DU may support the following alternatives:

# 9 A) Not Configured by O1
➢ O-DU determines O-DU transmission/reception window. How O-DU determines the window is up to O- DU, it may be hardcoded value at O-DU, or calculated from O-RU transmission/reception window and FH delay based on O-RAN WG4 Management Plane Specification [2]. Note: WG4 IOT profile describes O-DU transmission/reception window values. O-DU transmission/reception window can be hardcoded based on these values. ➢ There is no impact to this specification, since O-DU transmission/reception window is determined at O-

# 16 DU.

# 17 B) Configured by O1
➢ SMO configures the O-DU transmission/reception window by O1. The SMO configured parameters should be taken by the O-DU as the maximum or minimum allowed values for the respective transmission/reception window parameters. Having the SMO configure maximum or minimum allowed values instead of the exact value, provides necessary flexibility for the O-DU implementation. SMO may take into account O-RU reported window and FH delay to determine O-DU transmission/reception window. ➢ There is impact to this specification, where the details are described below. Note: This version focuses on hierarchical model. Next version will include hybrid model since this scheme can be extended to hybrid model.

# 29 Pre-condition
- Connection is established between SMO - O-DU / O-DU - O-RU

# 31 Post -condition
- Delay management between O-DU and O-RU is operational
Steps of Fronthaul delay management support are as follows: 1. SMO sends <rpc><get><window-determine-capability> to O-DU for getting the capability of O-DU 2. O-DU replies the rpc with O-DU’s capability. There are 3 capabilities: Not-Configured: O-DU transmission/reception window can be determined by O-DU Configured: O-DU transmission/reception window can be determined by configured value from SMO

# 39 Both: O-DU has both capabilities, Not-Configured and Configured
Copyright © 2024 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Your use is subject to copyright statement on the cover page of this specification 3. SMO decides the method how O-DU transmission/reception window is determined from capability supported by O-DU 4. SMO sends <rpc><edit-config><window-determine-method> based on the decision of step3. 5. In parallel with step1,2,3, O-DU gets O-RU transmission/reception window based on O-RAN WG4 specification [2] 6. If SMO directs Not-Configured as window-determine-method to O-DU at step4, O-DU transmission/reception window is determined by O-DU. How O-DU determines the window is up to O-DU, it may be hardcoded value at O-DU, or calculated from O-RU transmission/reception window and FH delay based on O-RAN WG4 CUS spec [9]. If SMO has pre-configured FH delay, SMO sends it in rpc window- determine-method for O-DU to calculate O-DU transmission/reception window. 7. If SMO directs Configured as window-determine-method to O-DU at step4, 1. SMO sends <rpc><get><o-ru-window> and/or <measured-transport-delay> to O-DU as necessary (SMO may have such information apriori and may not need to get them from O-DU). 2. SMO determines O-DU transmission/reception window taking into account the following WG4 instances:

# 16 • FH delay (pre-defined or measured):

# 17 - t12-min, t12-max,

# 18 - t34-min, t-34max

# 19 • O-RU transmission/reception window:

# 20 - t2a-min-up, t2a-max-up

# 21 - t2a-min-cp-dl, t2a-max-cp-dl

# 22 - tcp-adv-dl

# 23 - ta3-min, ta3-max

# 24 - t2a-min-cp-ul, t2a-max-cp-ul
SMO determines the following parameters for O-DU transmission/reception window:

# 26 • maximum-t1a-max-up:

# 27 ➢ the maximum allowed value of T1a_max_up

# 28 • minimum-t1a-min-up:

# 29 ➢ the minimum allowed value of T1a_min_up

# 30 • maximum-t1a-max-cp-dl:

# 31 ➢ the maximum allowed value of T1a_max_cp_dl

# 32 • minimum-t1a-min-cp-dl:

# 33 ➢ the minimum allowed value of T1a_min_cp_dl

# 34 • maximum-t1a-max-cp-ul:

# 35 ➢ the maximum allowed value of T1a_max_cp_ul

# 36 • minimum-t1a-min-cp-ul:

# 37 ➢ the minimum allowed value of T1a_min_cp_ul

# 38 • maximum-ta4-max:
Copyright © 2024 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Your use is subject to copyright statement on the cover page of this specification

# 3 ➢ the maximum allowed value of Ta4_min
Note: The above maximum or minimum allowed values for the respective O-DU transmission/reception window parameters that the SMO determines should satisfy the relations specified in 4.4.3 U-Plane/ C-

# 6 Plane Timing in O-RAN WG4 CUS-Plane Specification [9].
3. SMO sends <rpc><edit-config><o-du-window> with determined maximum or minimum allowed values for the respective O-DU transmission/reception window parameters at the previous step. 4. O-DU sets O-DU transmission/reception window based on o-du-window from SMO. 8. If O-RU has the capability to set O-RU transmission/reception window adaptively as specified at 7.8 O-RU Adaptive Delay Capability in O-RAN WG4 M-Plane spec, O-DU sends O-DU transmission/reception window and FH delay to O-RU. O-RU may set O-RU transmission/reception window adaptively based on O-DU transmission/reception window and FH delay. 9. Delay management between O-DU and O-RU is operational Copyright © 2024 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Your use is subject to copyright statement on the cover page of this specification

# 14 Trace Management Services

## 14.1 Introduction
Trace Management Service for O-DU is aligned with O1 Interface Specification [6], clause 6.4.

## 14.2 Call Trace
Call Trace for for O-DU is aligned with O1 Interface Specification [6], clause 6.4.1.

## 14.3 Minimization of Drive Testing (MDT)
Minimization of Drive Testing for O-DU is aligned with O1 Interface Specification [6], clause 6.4.2.

## 14.4 Radio Link Failure (RLF)
Radio Link Failure for O-DU is aligned with O1 Interface Specification [6], clause 6.4.3.

## 14.5 RRC Connection Establishment Failure (RCEF)
RRC Connection Establishment Failure for O-DU is aligned with O1 Interface Specification [6], clause 6.4.4.

## 14.6 Trace Control
Trace Control for O-DU is aligned with O1 Interface Specification [6], clause 6.4.5.

## 14.7 Streaming Trace
Streaming Trace for O-DU is aligned with O1 Interface Specification [6], clause 6.4.6.

# 15 Shared O-RU

## 15.1 Introduction

# A Shared O-RU deployment allows one or more operators to connect their O-DUs to an O-RU and share its resources.
An O-DU should simultaneously support connections to non-Shared O-RUs, Multi O-DU O-RUs and/or Multi-Operator O-RUs, dependent on which Shared O-RU features the O-DU supports. Refer to [2] for more details of Shared O-RU. Copyright © 2024 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Your use is subject to copyright statement on the cover page of this specification

## 15.2 Single Operator Shared O-RU

### 15.2.1 O-DU(s) roles
In Single Operator Shared O-RU deployment, O-DUs do not have specific access privilege roles as in Multi-Operator Shared O-RU. O-DUs use the same access control groups as in non-Shared O-RU. In hierarchical deployment, O-DUs all use the same access control group “sudo” toward the Multi O-DU O-RU. One O- DU acts as primary O-DU responsible for configuring general OAM related configuration, supervision per O-DU,

# 7 NETCONF call home and managing general OAM functions.
Refer to clause 12 and [2] clause 6.5 for further details.

### 15.2.2 Configuring O-RU

# 11 15.2.2.1 Configuring O-RU general OAM related configuration
In hierarchical deployment, it is recommended that SMO configures general OAM related configuration for each Multi O-DU O-RU using O1 toward only one sharing O-DU (primary). That O-DU then consequently uses the configuration data to configure the Multi O-DU O-RU over its fronthaul interface. If SMO configures the same Multi O-DU O-RU through more than one sharing O-DU, it is recommended that SMO validates outside of the O-DUs that the configuration is aligned in all the sharing O-DUs to avoid configuration discrepancy. How validation is done is out of the scope of the present document.
> NOTE: O-RU does not check which O-DU(s) is configuring it, nor does it validate if e.g., same parameter is
configured to different allowed values by O-DUs. In hybrid deployment, it is recommended that SMO directly configures all general OAM related configuration for each

# 21 Multi O-DU O-RU over its Fronthaul M-plane interface.

# 22 Refer to clause 12 for further details.

# 24 15.2.2.2 Managing O-RU general OAM related functions
In hierarchical deployment, it is recommended that SMO manages Multi O-DU O-RU general OAM functions using O1 toward only one sharing O-DU (primary), for example: software management, file Management, synchronization aspects, antenna line devices, operational aspects of external IO, O-RU connectors, beamforming configuration update, user account provisioning. If SMO manages general OAM functions for the same Multi O-DU O-RU through more than one sharing O-DU, it is recommended that SMO co-ordinates the O-DUs that the management is aligned in all of the sharing O-DUs to avoid discrepancy. How validation is done is out of the scope of the present document. In hybrid deployment, it is recommended that SMO directly manages all Multi O-DU O-RU general OAM functions for each Multi O-DU O-RU over its Fronthaul M-plane interface. O-DUs may manage other O-RU functions independently e.g., NETCONF connection establishment, performance management, fault management, static configuration for PRACH and SRS. Refer to clause 12 and [2] clauses 8, 12, 13, 14.4, 14.5, 14.6, 15.4 for further details.

# 37 15.2.2.3 Configuring carrier configuration
SMO shall configure only the cells that the O-DU serves and their corresponding carriers over O1 towards that O-DU. The O-DU shall then consequently configure the corresponding tx/rx-array-carriers on the Multi O-DU O-RUs over their fronthaul interfaces. Copyright © 2024 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Your use is subject to copyright statement on the cover page of this specification

# 3 O-DU serves.
When an O-DU receive a notification from a Shared O-RU indicating tx/rx-array-carrier state change, the O-DU shall treat the notification in the same way as for a non-shared O-RU, i.e., O-DU shall ignore the notifications that do not relate to the O-DU cell´s NRSectorCarriers.

### 15.2.3 Supervision Monitoring per O-DU
In hierarchical deployment, SMO may configure SecondaryODuInfo including attribute supervisionPerODu over O1 on the primary O-DU. The primary O-DU shall then consequently configure Shared Resource Operator O-DU supervision on each Shared O-RU. In hybrid deployment, SMO instead may configure Shared Resource Operator O-DU supervision directly on each

# 13 Shared O-RU over its Fronthaul M-plane interface.
Refer to [2] clause 6.7, 19.3.4 for further details.

### 15.2.4 NETCONF call home
In hierarchical deployment, SMO may configure the SecondaryODuInfo including attribute callHomeClientInfo over O1 only on the primary O-DU. If callHomeClientInfo has been configured, the primary O-DU shall then consequently configure call home addresses on each Shared O-RU. In hybrid deployment, SMO instead may configure call home addresses directly on each Shared O-RU over its

# 21 Fronthaul M-plane interface.

## 15.3 Multi Operator Shared O-RU

### 15.3.1 O-DU(s) roles
O-DU possible roles towards a Multi Operator Shared O-RU are defined in [2]. O-DU role towards all connected Multi Operator Shared O-RUs is configured over O1 by setting oDuRoleOfSharedORu to one of the values:

# 27 “HOST_AND_SRO”, “HOST” or “SRO”.
When O-DU role is set to “HOST_AND_SRO”, the O-DU simultaneously perform the Shared O-RU Host role and the Shared Resource Operator roles towards all connected Multi Operator Shared O-RUs. When O-DU role is set to “HOST”, the O-DU only performs the Shared O-RU Host role, equaling Neutral Host. That O-DU configures and manages all connected Multi Operator Shared O-RUs but does not have carriers in those O-RUs. For each Multi Operator Shared O-RU, at most only one connected O-DU should perform the Shared O-RU Host role. If no connected O-DU performs the Shared O-RU Host role, it is assumed that an SMO performs that role, acting as Neutral Host. However, the scenario in which the Neutral Host is provided by SMO is not considered in this version of the document. In a hierarchical deployment containing Multi Operator Shared O-RUs, the O-DU performing the Shared O-RU Host role uses the access control group “sudo” toward all connected Multi Operator Shared O-RUs. The O-DUs performing only the Shared Resource Operator role (i.e., not together with the Shared O-RU Host role) use the access control group

# 39 “carrier” towards all connected Multi Operator Shared O-RUs.
In a hybrid deployment containing Multi Operator Shared O-RUs, if an O-DU performs the Shared O-RU Host role, it uses the access control group “hybrid-odu” toward the Multi O-DU O-RU. The O-DUs performing only the Shared Copyright © 2024 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Your use is subject to copyright statement on the cover page of this specification Resource Operator role (i.e., not together with the Shared O-RU Host role) use the access control group “carrier” towards all connected Multi Operator Shared O-RUs. Following sub-clauses define what shall be configured over O1 to O-DU to realize O-DU functions defined in [2].

### 15.3.2 Configuring O-RU general OAM related configuration
In hierarchical deployment, it is recommended that SMO configures O-RU general OAM related configuration over O1 toward only the single Shared O-RU Host O-DU. The Shared O-RU Host O-DU shall then consequently configure general OAM related configuration on the Multi Operator O-RUs over their fronthaul interfaces. In hybrid deployment, it is recommended that SMO directly configures general OAM related configuration for each

# 10 Multi O-DU O-RU over its Fronthaul M-plane interface.

### 15.3.3 Managing O-RU general OAM related functions
In hierarchical deployment, it is recommended that SMO manages O-RU general OAM related functions over O1 toward only the single shared O-RU Host O-DU. The Shared O-RU Host O-DU shall then consequently manage general OAM related functions on the Multi Operator O-RUs over their fronthaul interfaces. In hybrid deployment, it is recommended that SMO directly manages Multi O-DU O-RU general OAM functions for each Multi O-DU O-RU over its Fronthaul M-plane interface.

### 15.3.4 NETCONF server user account provisioning for shared resource
operators In hierarchical deployment, SMO shall configure the SecondaryODuInfo over O1 only on the Shared O-RU Host O- DU. The Shared O-RU Host O-DU shall then consequently configure Shared Resource Operator user accounts with “carrier” access privilege and sro-id=sharedResourceOperatorId on the connected Multi Operator O-RUs over their fronthaul interfaces.
> NOTE: Value of each sharedResourceOperatorId shall be unique and associated with a particular Shared Resource

# 26 Operator only.
In hybrid deployment, SMO instead configures Shared Resource Operator user accounts with “carrier” access privilege and sro-id=sharedResourceOperatorId directly on each Multi Operator O-RU over its Fronthaul M-plane interface.

# 29 Refer to [2] clause 19.3.1 for further details.

### 15.3.5 NETCONF call home
In hierarchical deployment, SMO may configure the SecondaryODuInfo including attribute callHomeClientInfo over O1 only on the Shared O-RU Host O-DU. If callHomeClientInfo has been configured, the Shared O-RU Host O-DU shall then consequently configure call home addresses on each Shared O-RU. In hybrid deployment, SMO instead may configure call home addresses directly on each Shared O-RU using its

# 36 Fronthaul M-plane interface.

# 37 Refer to [2] clause 19.3.2 for further details.
Copyright © 2024 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Your use is subject to copyright statement on the cover page of this specification

### 15.3.6 Enhanced sro-id based NETCONF access control
SMO shall configure the attribute sharedResourceOperatorId over O1 with a unique value on each Shared Resource Operator O-DU. The Shared Resource Operator O-DU shall then consequently use the value of sharedResourceOperatorId for the user account of the NETCONF client with sro-id configured on the Multi Operator

# 5 Shared O-RUs.

# 6 Refer to [2] clause 19.3.3 for further details.

### 15.3.7 Supervision Monitoring per O-DU
In hierarchical deployment, SMO may configure SecondaryODuInfo including attribute supervisionPerODu over O1 on the Shared O-RU Host. The Shared O-RU Host shall then consequently configure Shared Resource Operator O-DU supervision on each Shared O-RU. In hybrid deployment, SMO instead may configure Shared Resource Operator O-DU supervision directly on each

# 13 Shared O-RU using its Fronthaul M-plane interface.
Refer to [2] clause 6.7, 19.3.4 for further details.

### 15.3.8 Processing element configuration
Shared O-RU Host O-DU shall use the value of each Shared Resource Operator O-DUs sharedResourceOperatorId attribute to configure a particular O-RU´s ru-element list entry as being uniquely associated with a particular Shared Resource Operator. Shared O-RU Host O-DU gets sharedResourceOperatorId as defined in 13.3.6.

# 20 Refer to [2] clause 19.4.2.

### 15.3.9 Carrier Partitioning and Configuration in Shared O-RU
Only Shared O-RU Host O-DU has access privileges over Fronthaul M-plane to create tx/rx-array-carrier configuration in the Shared O-RU.
> NOTE: How Shared Resource Operators agree configuration partitioning is outside the scope of the present
document. It is assumed that operators mutually agree partitioning.
> NOTE: How Shared Resource Operators configurations are validated is outside the scope of the present document.
It is assumed that operators mutually validate as part of configuration partitioning.
> NOTE: How Shared Resource Operators agree eAxC-IDs partitioning is out of the scope of the present document. It
is assumed that operators mutually agree partitioning. Refer to clause 12.1 and [2] clause 19.6.1, 19.11.

### 15.3.10 Notification of configuration updates

# A Shared Resource Operator O-DU may configure subscriptions to receive notifications of modifications to a connected
shared O-RU’s datastore, according to the defined NETCONF access control privileges for the NETCONF client of that

# 36 Shared Resource Operator.
Refer to clause 12 and [2] clause 19.6.2 for further details. Copyright © 2024 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Your use is subject to copyright statement on the cover page of this specification

### 15.3.11 Shared O-RU Reset Co-ordination
Co-ordination of Shared O-RU reset is outside the scope of the current specification.
> NOTE: It is assumed that operator mutually agree time when Shared O-RU Host O-DU reset Shared O-RU.
> NOTE: It is assumed that SMO(s) disable cell(s) in a controlled manner before Shared O-RU reset.

# 5 Refer to [2] clause 19.10.1 for further details.

### 15.3.12 Locked administrative state
Co-ordination of Shared O-RU administrate state change to locked is outside the scope of the current specification.
> NOTE: It is assumed that operators mutually agree time when Shared O-RU Host O-DU change Shared O-RU
administrative state to locked.
> NOTE: It is assumed that SMO(s) disable cell(s) in a controlled manner before Shared O-RU state is changed to
locked.

# 13 Refer to [2] clause 19.10.2 for further details.

### 15.3.13 Antenna calibration
Co-ordination of Shared O-RU antenna calibration timing is outside the scope of the current specification.
> NOTE: It is assumed that operators mutually agree timing for Shared O-RU antenna calibrations.

# 18 Refer to [2] clause 19.10.3 for further details.

### 15.3.14 Shared O-RU with antenna line devices
The Shared O-RU Host O-DU is responsible for configuring and controlling antenna line devices.
> NOTE: It is assumed that operators mutually share antenna line devices configuration and co-ordinate antenna line
operations e.g., remote electrical tilt.

# 24 Refer to [2] clause 14.4, 19.11.6.

### 15.3.15 Shared O-RU operation in combination with shared cell
The Shared O-RU Host O-DU is responsible for configuring shared cell copy and combine parameters on behalf of each

# 28 Shared Resource Operator O-DU.
> NOTE: How Shared Resource Operators agree Shared Cell configuration of copy and combine is outside the scope
of the present document. It is assumed that operators mutually agree partitioning. Refer to [2] clause 17, 19.14 for further details. Copyright © 2024 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Your use is subject to copyright statement on the cover page of this specification

## 15.4 Content of Fronthaul M-plane ODU ID
O-DU uses the value of the attribute oDuIdForSharedORu as the Fronthaul M-plane odu-id, which is a free text string and can be set to e.g.., concatenated gNBId and gNBDUId.

## 15.5 Content of Fronthaul M-plane SRO ID
O-DU uses the value of the attribute sharedResourceOperatorId as the Fronthaul M-plane sro-id, which is a free text string and can be set to e.g.., PLMN ID.

# 16 Information Model definition

## 16.1 Imported and associated information entities

### 16.1.1 Imported information entities and local labels
Label reference Local label 3GPP TS 28.622 [13], IOC, Top Top 3GPP TS 28.541 [8], IOC, GNBDUFunction GNBDUFunction

### 16.1.2 Associated information entities and local labels
Label reference Local label TS 28.541 [8], IOC, GNBDUFunction GNBDUFunction

## 16.2 Class diagrams

### 16.2.1 Relationships

# 19 Figure 16-1: SharedOruConfiguration containment
Copyright © 2024 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Your use is subject to copyright statement on the cover page of this specification Figure 16-2: RF Channel Reconfiguration (TRx Control) (NESPolicy) containment

# 5 Figure 16-3: AdvancedSleepMode (NESPolicy) containment

### 16.2.2 Inheritance

# 10 Figure 16-4: SharedOruConfiguration inheritance
Copyright © 2024 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Your use is subject to copyright statement on the cover page of this specification

## 16.3 Class definitions

### 16.3.1 SharedOruConfiguration <<IOC>>

# 6 16.3.1.1 Definition
This Information Object Class (IOC) provides attribute(s) that are needed to configure O-DU to work with Shared O-

# 8 RU.

# 9 16.3.1.2 Attributes
The SharedOruConfiguration IOC includes attributes inherited from Top IOC (defined in 3GPP TS 28.622, clause

# 11 4.3.29) and contain the following attributes:
Attribute name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable oDuRoleOfSharedORu CM T T F T sharedResourceOperatorId CM T T F T oDuIdForSharedORu CM T T F T secondaryODuInfoList CM T T F T

# 13 16.3.1.3 Attribute constraints
Name Definition oDuRoleOfSharedORu CM support qualifier Condition: When O-RU supports Multiple Operator Shared O-RU configuration and O-RU is configured to work in shared O-RU mode, this parameter is mandatory sharedResourceOperatorId CM support qualifier Condition: When O-RU supports Multiple Operator Shared O-RU configuration and O-RU is configured to work in shared O-RU mode, this parameter is mandatory oDuIdForSharedORu CM support qualifier Condition: When O-RU supports Multiple Operator Shared O-RU or Shared O-RU Multi O-DU configuration and O-RU is configured to work in shared O-RU mode, this parameter is mandatory secondaryODuInfoList CM support qualifier Condition: This parameter is mandatory when oDuRoleOfSharedORu is HOST or HOST_AND_SRO in Multi Operator Shared O-RU or primary in Single Operator Shared O-RU. When the role of the O-DU is SRO or secondary, this parameter is not used. Copyright © 2024 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Your use is subject to copyright statement on the cover page of this specification

# 3 16.3.1.5 State diagram

# 4 None

### 16.3.2 SecondaryODuInfo <<dataType>>

# 6 16.3.2.1 Definition
“This data type provides fields that are needed to configure an O-DU that performs the Shared Resource Operator (SRO) role. The O-DU that has the Shared O-RU Host role configures this data on the Shared O-RUs connected to the

# 9 SRO O-DU.”

# 10 16.3.2.2 Attributes

# 11 The SecondaryODuInfo data type contains the following fields:
Attribute name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable oDuIdForSharedORu M T T F T sharedResourceOperatorId CM T T F T accessControlGroup CM T T F T supervisionPerODu O T T F T callHomeClientInfo O T T F T sharedORuList O T T F T

# 13 16.3.2.3 Attribute constraints
Name Definition sharedResourceOperatorId CM support Condition: When O-RU supports Multiple Operator Shared O- qualifier RU configuration and O-RU is configured to work in shared O- RU mode, this parameter is mandatory accessControlGroup CM support qualifier Condition: When O-RU supports Multiple Operator Shared O- RU configuration and O-RU is configured to work in shared O- RU mode, this parameter is mandatory

# 15 16.3.2.4 Notifications

# 16 None

# 17 16.3.2.5 State diagram

# 18 None

### 16.3.3 CallHomeClientInfo <<dataType>>

# 20 16.3.3.1 Definition
“This data type provides fields that are needed to configure a call home address for an O-DU that performs the Shared Resource Operator (SRO) role. The O-DU that has the Shared O-RU Host role configures this data on the Shared O-

# 23 RUs connected to the SRO O-DU.”

# 24 16.3.3.2 Attributes

# 25 The callHomeClientInfo data type contains the following fields:
Copyright © 2024 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Your use is subject to copyright statement on the cover page of this specification Attribute name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable host O T T F T portNumber O T T F T

# 3 None

# 4 16.3.3.4 Notifications

# 5 None

# 6 16.3.3.5 State diagram

# 7 None

### 16.3.4 NESPolicy <<IOC>>

# 10 16.3.4.1 Definition
This Information Object Class (IOC) is O-RAN specific class and provides attribute(s) that are needed to provide the policy or policies to O-DU to enable or disable the energy saving uses (TRx Control (RF Channel Reconfiguration) and

# 14 Advanced Sleep Mode) in O-RU.

# 16 16.3.4.2 Attributes
NESPolicy IOC includes attributes inherited from Top IOC (defined in 3GPP TS 28.622, clause 4.3.29) and contains the following attributes that are intended to be used for O-RAN specific NES use cases: Attribute name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable trxCtrlPolicyList O T T F T asmPolicyList O T T F T Copyright © 2024 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Your use is subject to copyright statement on the cover page of this specification

## 16.4 Attribute definitions
Copyright © 2024 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Your use is subject to copyright statement on the cover page of this specification Attribute Name Documentation and Allowed Values Properties oDuRoleOfSharedORu This attribute defines the role of O-DU. type: enum When O-DU role is set to “HOST_AND_SRO”, O-DU multiplicity: 0..1 simultaneously perform the Shared O-RU Host role and isOrdered: N/A the Shared Resource Operator roles. isUnique: N/A defaultValue: None allowedValues: “HOST_AND_SRO”, isNullable: False “HOST”, “SRO”. sharedResourceOperatorI This parameter defines Shared Resource Operator ID of type: string d O-DUs, which Shared Resource Operator O-DU shall use multiplicity: 0..1 for the user account of the NETCONF client with sro-id isOrdered: N/A configured. When the role of the O-DU is HOST, this isUnique: N/A attribute is not used. defaultValue: None isNullable: True oDuIdForSharedORu This parameter defines O-DUs own oduidforsharedoru to type: string be used for fronthaul O-DU ID. multiplicity: 0..1 isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: None isNullable: False accessControlGroup Defines the Netconf access control group per SRO O-DU, type: string which is then created by the Shared O-RU Host in the multiplicity: 0..1 Shared O-RUs. If the role for a O-DU already exists, then isOrdered: N/A that role is updated with the new enum “carrier”. When the isUnique: N/A role of the O-DU is SRO, this attribute is not used. defaultValue: None isNullable: False supervisionPerODu Operator may activate O-RU supervision per Shared type: boolean Resource Operator O-DU by configuring over O1 multiplicity: 1 supervisionperodu to “true”, which triggers Shared O-RU isOrdered: N/A Host in Multi OperatorShared O-RU or primary O-DU in isUnique: N/A Single Operator Shared O-RU to configure odu-id defaultValue: None parameter in the per-odu-monitoring over Fronthaul M- isNullable: False plane. When the role of the O-DU is SRO in Multi Operator Shared O-RU or secondary in Single Operator Shared O- RU, this attribute is not used. secondaryODuInfoList List containing information about all SRO O-DUs or type: SecondaryODuInfo secondary O-DUs, which shared O-RU Host in Multi multiplicity: 0..* Operator Shared O-RU or primary O-DU in Single isOrdered: N/A Operarator Shared O-RU shall use to configure the Shared isUnique: N/A O-RUs included in the sharedORuList field. defaultValue: None isNullable: False callHomeClientInfo In Multi Operator Shared O-RU, over O1 is send only to type: CallHomeClientInfo the Shared O-RU Host O-DU callhomeclientinfo, which multiplicity: 0..1 Shared O-RU Host O-DU shall use to configure in each isOrdered: N/A Shared O-RU multiple call home addresses towards O-DU. isUnique: N/A defaultValue: None In Single Operator Shared O-RU, over O1 is send only to isNullable: False the primary O-DU callhomeclientinfo, which primary O-DU shall use to configure in each Shared O-RU multiple call home addresses towards O-DU. sharedORuList In Multi Operator Shared O-RU, list of Shared O-RU type: string identities connected to the Shared O-RU Host O-DU and multiplicity: 0..* Shared Resource Operator O-DU isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A In Single Operator Shared O-RU, list of Shared O-RU defaultValue: None identities connected to the primary O-DU and secondary isNullable: False O-DU. Copyright © 2024 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Your use is subject to copyright statement on the cover page of this specification host Represents an IP address or DNS type: string domain name (see RFC6991). multiplicity: 0..1 isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: None isNullable: False portNumber Represents a 16-bit port number of an type: integer Internet transport-layer protocol (see RFC6991). multiplicity: 0..1 isOrdered: N/A isUnique: N/A defaultValue: None isNullable: False

# 17 O-DU behavior for 3GPP conformance testing

## 17.1 Introduction
This clause describes O-DU behavior to evaluate O-RU performance based on the 3GPP standardized conformance tests. To guarantee the minimum performance of gNB, O-RAN WG5 follows tests definition from [16], [17], and [18]. Any points not mentioned in this clause are expected to be in accordance with the corresponding test specifications in [16], [17], and [18]. Note: The present version of this specification considers only PNF-deployed O-DU.

## 17.2 O-DU behavior for O-RU uplink evaluation
O-DU behavior for uplink tests specified in clauses 7 and 8 in [18] is as follows: Step 1: O-DU receives a request, by O1, to conduct a test with the configuration parameters defined in Table 12 of

# 17 O-DU exits the test mode.
Note: A test of “Receiver spurious emissions” defined in clause 7.6 in [18] is not applicable to the above steps as it is not measured at the O-DU.

## 17.3 O-DU behavior for O-RU downlink evaluation
O-DU behavior for downlink tests specified in clause 6 in [18] is as follows: Step 1: O-DU receives a request, by O1, to conduct a test with the configuration parameters defined in Table 13 of


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG5.TS.C.1-R004-v16.01.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG5.TS.C.1-R004-v16.01"
---

# 3 Definitions and abbreviations

## 3.1 Definitions

Definitions used in this specification refer to the ones defined in the referenced 3GPP specifications.

## 3.2 Abbreviations

Abbreviations used in this specification refer to the ones defined in the referenced 3GPP specifications.

# 4 Non-UE associated procedures

## 4.1 X2-C and F1-C for EN-DC

This section provides the relevant profiling information to achieve interoperability for non-UE associated procedures as defined in TS 36.423 [2] and TS 38.473 [3]. In this version of the profile, the following procedures are defined:

- EN-DC X2 Setup
- Reset (for X2 and F1)
- EN-DC Configuration Update
- Partial Reset
- F1 Setup
- gNB-DU Configuration Update
- gNB-CU Configuration Update
- Mobility Load Balancing

### 4.1.1 EN-DC X2 Setup

#### 4.1.1.1 EN-DC X2 Setup (eNB initiated)

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| eNB ID | Only Macro eNB ID is used. |
| SUL Information | Not used |
| NR Neighbour Information indicated by eNB | Optionally used for UC1 |
| NR Neighbour Information indicated by en-gNB | Optionally used for UC2 |
| Protected E-UTRA Resource Indication IE | Optionally included in case Dynamic Spectrum Sharing is used |

NR neighbour information IE can optionally be used for:

- UC1:	eNB sending NR neighbour cell information per E-UTRAN cell to en-gNB for inter en-gNB mobility
- UC2:	en-gNBs sending NR neighbour cell information per NR cell to eNB for building NR neighbour relations

##### 4.1.1.1.1 Message flow for X2

##### 4.1.1.1.2 X2-C IE handling

#### 4.1.1.2 EN-DC X2 Setup (en-gNB initiated)

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| eNB ID | Only Macro eNB ID is used |
| SUL Information | Not used |
| NR Neighbour Information indicated by eNB | Optionally used for UC1 |
| NR Neighbour Information indicated by en-gNB | Optionally used for UC2 |
| Protected E-UTRA Resource Indication IE | Optionally included in case Dynamic Spectrum Sharing is used |

NR neighbour information IE can optionally be used for:

- UC1:	eNB sending NR neighbour cell information per E-UTRAN cell to en-gNB for inter en-gNB mobility
- UC2:	en-gNBs sending NR neighbour cell information per NR cell to eNB for building NR neighbour relations

##### 4.1.1.2.1 Message flow for X2

##### 4.1.1.2.2 X2-C IE handling

### 4.1.2 Reset

#### 4.1.2.1 Reset (eNB initiated)

##### 4.1.2.1.1 Message flow for X2

##### 4.1.2.1.2 X2-C IE handling

#### 4.1.2.2 Reset (en-gNB initiated)

##### 4.1.2.2.1 Message flow for X2

##### 4.1.2.2.2 X2-C IE handling

#### 4.1.2.3 Reset (gNB-DU initiated)

##### 4.1.2.3.1 Message flow for X2 and F1

NOTE1:	If part of UE associations over the X2 interface are affected by F1 Reset procedure, then PARTIAL RESET REQUIRED message is sent from the gNB-CU and PARTIAL RESET CONFIRM message is sent from the MeNB.

NOTE2:	If all of UE associations over the X2 interface are affected by F1 Reset procedure, then up to implementation, either PARTIAL RESET REQUIRED message or RESET REQUEST message is sent from the gNB-CU. PARTIAL RESET CONFIRM message or RESET RESPONSE message is sent from the MeNB/eNB accordingly.

##### 4.1.2.3.2 F1-C IE handling

#### 4.1.2.4 Reset (gNB-CU initiated)

##### 4.1.2.4.1 Message flow for X2 and F1

NOTE1:	The timing of sending the Step 1a RESET message is an example, it may be sent e.g. after step 2 and it is up to implementation.

##### 4.1.2.4.2 F1-C IE handling

### 4.1.3 EN-DC Configuration Update

#### 4.1.3.1 Served NR cell information Update (en-gNB initiated)

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| SUL Information | Not used |
| Served NR Cells to Add/Modify/Delete | Used |
| NR Deactivation Indication | Optionally used in case of Cell deactivation. Otherwise not used |
| NR Neighbour Information indicated by en-gNB | Optionally used for UC2 |

NR neighbour information IE can optionally be used for:

UC2:	en-gNBs sending NR neighbour cell information per NR cell to eNB for building NR neighbour relations

##### 4.1.3.1.1 Message flow for X2

##### 4.1.3.1.2 X2-C IE handling

#### 4.1.3.2 Served LTE cell information Update (eNB initiated)

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| SUL Information | Not used |
| Served E-UTRA Cells to Add/Modify/Delete | Used |
| NR Neighbour Information indicated by eNB | Optionally used for UC1 |
| NR Neighbour Information indicated by en-gNB | Optionally used for UC2 |
| Protected E-UTRA Resource Indication IE | Optionally included in case Dynamic Spectrum Sharing is used |

NR neighbour information IE can optionally be used for:

- UC1:	eNB sending NR neighbour cell information per E-UTRAN cell to en-gNB for inter en-gNB mobility
UC2:	en-gNBs sending NR neighbour cell information per NR cell to eNB for building NR neighbour relations

##### 4.1.3.2.1 Message flow for X2

##### 4.1.3.2.2 X2-C IE handling

### 4.1.4 Partial Reset

#### 4.1.4.1 Partial Reset (MeNB initiated)

##### 4.1.4.1.1 Message flow for X2

##### 4.1.4.1.2 X2-C IE handling

##### 4.1.4.1.3 Message flow for X2 and F1

NOTE1:	If multiple gNB-DUs are configured and a certain gNB-DU has allocated one or more UE contexts, the gNB-CU performs OPT.

NOTE2:	The timing of sending the Step 1a RESET message is an example, it may be sent e.g. before step 2 and it is up to implementation.

NOTE3:	The timing of sending the Step 2 PARTIAL RESET CONFIRM message is an example, it may be sent e.g. after step 1a or step 1b and it is up to implementation.

##### 4.1.4.1.4 F1-C IE handling

#### 4.1.4.2 Partial Reset (en-gNB initiated)

##### 4.1.4.2.1 Message flow for X2

##### 4.1.4.2.2 X2-C IE handling

#### 4.1.4.3 Partial Reset (gNB-DU initiated)

##### 4.1.4.3.1 Message flow for X2 and F1

##### 4.1.4.3.2 F1-C IE handling

#### 4.1.4.4 Partial Reset (gNB-CU initiated)

##### 4.1.4.4.1 Message flow for X2 and F1

NOTE1:	If multiple gNB-DUs are configured and a certain gNB-DU has allocated one or more UE contexts, the gNB-CU performs OPT.

NOTE2:	The timing of sending the Step 1a RESET message is an example, it may be sent e.g. after step 2 and it is up to implementation.

##### 4.1.4.4.2 F1-C IE handling

### 4.1.5 F1 Setup

#### 4.1.5.1 F1 Setup

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| TAI Slice Support List | Not used |
| SUL Information | Not used |
| RANAC | Not used |
| gNB-DU System Information | Not used |
| gNB-CU System Information | Not used |

##### 4.1.5.1.1 Message flow for X2 and F1

NOTE1:	If the gNB-CU requests the gNB-DU to activate cells via F1 SETUP RESPONSE message, then the gNB-DU will initiate gNB-DU Configuration Update procedure for cell activation use case, i.e. to indicate Service Status for activated cells (OPT1).

NOTE2:	If the gNB-CU requests the gNB-DU to activate cells which have been reported by F1 SETUP REQUEST message some time after it sends F1 SETUP RESPONSE message, then it initiates gNB-CU Configuration Update procedure for cell activation use case (OPT2).

NOTE3:	If the F1 SETUP REQUEST message does not contain gNB-DU Served Cells List, then neither OPT1 nor OPT2 will be conducted.

##### 4.1.5.1.2 F1-C IE handling

### 4.1.6 gNB-DU Configuration Update

#### 4.1.6.1 gNB-DU Configuration Update

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| TAI Slice Support List | Not used |
| SUL Information | Not used |
| RANAC | Not used |
| gNB-DU System Information | Not used |
| Dedicated SI Delivery Needed UE List | Not used |
| gNB-CU System Information | Not used |

##### 4.1.6.1.1 Message flow for X2 and F1

NOTE1:	If the gNB-CU requests the gNB-DU to activate cells via GNB-DU CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE message in step 2, then the gNB-DU will trigger additional GNB-DU CONFIGURATION UPDATE procedure to inform the Service Status for activated cells (OPT1).

NOTE2:	If the gNB-DU uses this procedure to add, delete or modify cells, and if the X2 interface has been established between the gNB-CU and the eNB, then the addition, deletion or modification of the cells will be propagated over the X2 interface as described in Chapter 4.1.3.1.

NOTE3:	If the gNB-DU uses this procedure to inform the Service Status for activated cells, and if the X2 interface has been established between the gNB-CU and the eNB, the change of Service Status will not be propagated over the X2 interface.

##### 4.1.6.1.2 F1-C IE handling

Cell activation can be achieved by including Cells to be Activated List IE in GNB-DU CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE message of any of the use cases Cell addition (chapter 4.1.6.1.2.1), Cell deletion (chapter 4.1.6.1.2.2), Cell modification (chapter 4.1.6.1.2.3) or Service Status change (chapter 4.1.6.1.2.6).

Cell deactivation can be achieved by including Cells to be Deactivated List IE in GNB-DU CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE message of any of the use cases Cell addition (chapter 4.1.6.1.2.1), Cell deletion (chapter 4.1.6.1.2.2), Cell modification (chapter 4.1.6.1.2.3) or Service Status change (chapter 4.1.6.1.2.6).

### 4.1.7 gNB-CU Configuration Update

#### 4.1.7.1 gNB-CU Configuration Update

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| gNB-CU System Information | Not used |
| TNL Association Transport Layer Information | Optionally used |
| Dedicated SI Delivery Needed UE List | Not used |
| SUL Information | Not used |
| Protected E-UTRA Resource Indication IE | Optionally included in case Dynamic Spectrum Sharing is used. |

##### 4.1.7.1.1 Message flow for X2 and F1

NOTE1:	In case of cell activation, the gNB-DU will initiate the gNB-DU Configuration Update procedure towards the gNB-CU to report the Service Status for activated cells (step 3).

NOTE2:	In case of TNL association, the gNB-DU will establish the TNL associations with the gNB-CU. The gNB-CU may add or modify or delete additional TNL Endpoint(s) to be used for F1-C signaling between the gNB-CU and the gNB-DU pair using the gNB-CU Configuration Update procedure.

##### 4.1.7.1.2 F1-C IE handling

### 4.1.8 Mobility Load Balancing

#### 4.1.8.1 EN-DC Resource Status Reporting Initiation

The purpose is to request the reporting of load measurements to the en-gNB/eNB by the eNB/en-gNB.

##### 4.1.8.1.1 Message flow for X2

##### 4.1.8.1.2 X2-C IE handling

#### 4.1.8.2 EN-DC Resource Status Reporting

The purpose is to report the result of load measurements admitted by the en-gNB/eNB following a successful EN-DC Resource Status Reporting Initiation procedure.

##### 4.1.8.2.1 Message flow for X2

##### 4.1.8.2.2 X2-C IE handling

## 4.2 Xn-C and F1-C for NR Stand-Alone

This section provides the relevant profiling information to achieve interoperability for non-UE associated procedures as defined in TS 38.423 [5] and TS 38.473 [3]. The following use cases are profiled for NR Stand-Alone (SA):

- Xn Setup
- Reset
- F1-Setup
- gNB-DU configuration update
- gNB-CU configuration update
- Paging
- Write-Replace-Warning
- NG-RAN Node Configuration Update
- Mobility Load Balancing

### 4.2.1 Xn Setup

The purpose of the Xn Setup procedure is to exchange application level configuration data needed for two NG-RAN nodes to interoperate correctly over the Xn-C interface.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| SUL Information | Not used |
| Neighbour Information E-UTRA | Not used |

#### 4.2.1.1 Xn message flow

#### 4.2.1.2 Xn-C IE handling

### 4.2.2 Reset

The purpose of the Xn Reset procedure is to align resources in gNB1 and gNB2 in the event of an abnormal failure. The procedure either resets the complete Xn interface or selected UE contexts depending on the Reset Request TypeInfo IE. The procedure does not affect the application level configuration data exchanged during e.g. an Xn Setup procedure.

#### 4.2.2.1 Message flow on Xn

#### 4.2.2.2 Xn-C IE handling

##### 4.2.2.2.1 Reset

##### 4.2.2.2.2 Partial Reset

#### 4.2.2.3 Reset (gNB-CU initiated)

##### 4.2.2.3.1 Message flow on Xn and F1

NOTE:	Step 1 and 2 are only applicable if the Xn interface is configured, these messages are defined in section 4.2.2.2 above

##### 4.2.2.3.2 F1-C IE handling

#### 4.2.2.4 Reset (gNB-DU initiated)

##### 4.2.2.4.1 Message flow on Xn and F1

NOTE1:	Step 1 and 2 are only applicable if the Xn interface is configured, these messages are defined in section 4.2.2.2 above

NOTE2:	The order of sending message 2a is an example, it may be sent e.g. after step 1 or 2 and is up to implementation

##### 4.2.2.4.2 F1-C IE handling

Message IE content is same as in 4.2.2.3.2.1 .

Message IE content is same as in 4.2.2.3.2.2 .

### 4.2.3 F1 Setup

#### 4.2.3.1 F1 Setup

The purpose of the F1 Setup procedure is to exchange application level data needed for the gNB-DU and the gNB-CU to correctly interoperate on the F1 interface.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| SUL Information | Not used |

##### 4.2.3.1.1 Message flow for F1

NOTE1:	If the gNB-CU requests the gNB-DU to activate cells via F1 SETUP RESPONSE message, then the gNB-DU will initiate gNB-DU Configuration Update procedure for cell activation use case, i.e. to indicate Service Status for activated cells (OPT1).

NOTE2:	If the gNB-CU requests the gNB-DU to activate cells which have been reported by F1 SETUP REQUEST message some time after it sends F1 SETUP RESPONSE message, then it initiates gNB-CU Configuration Update procedure for cell activation use case (OPT2).

##### 4.2.3.1.2 F1-C IE handling

### 4.2.4 gNB-DU configuration update

#### 4.2.4.1 gNB-DU Configuration Update

The purpose of the gNB-DU Configuration Update procedure is to update application level configuration data needed for the gNB-DU and the gNB-CU to interoperate correctly on the F1 interface.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| SUL Information | Not used |
| Dedicated SI Delivery Needed UE List | Not used |
| gNB-DU TNL Association To Remove List | Not used |

##### 4.2.4.1.1 Message flow for F1

NOTE1:	If the gNB-CU requests the gNB-DU to activate cells via GNB-DU CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE message in step 2, then the gNB-DU will trigger additional GNB-DU CONFIGURATION UPDATE procedure to inform the Service Status for activated cells. (OPT1)

##### 4.2.4.1.2 F1-C IE handling

### 4.2.5 gNB-CU configuration update

#### 4.2.5.1 gNB-CU Configuration Update

The purpose of the gNB-CU Configuration Update procedure is to update application level configuration data needed for the gNB-DU and gNB-CU to interoperate correctly on the F1 interface.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| TNL Association Transport Layer Information | Not used |
| Dedicated SI Delivery Needed UE List | Not used |
| SUL Information | Not used |
| Protected E-UTRA Resource List | Not used |

##### 4.2.5.1.1 Message flow for F1

NOTE1:	In case of cell activation, the gNB-DU will initiate the gNB-DU Configuration Update procedure towards the gNB-CU to report the Service Status for activated cells (step 3).

##### 4.2.5.1.2 F1-C IE handling

### 4.2.6 Paging (CN-initiated)

The purpose of the Paging procedure is to enable the gNB to page a UE in RRC_IDLE state.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 2 (NR stand alone) |

#### 4.2.6.1 Message flow for F1

#### 4.2.6.2 F1-C IE handling

### 4.2.7 Write-Replace Warning

The purpose of Write-Replace Warning procedure is to start or overwrite the broadcasting of warning messages.

##### 4.2.7.1.1 Message flow for F1

NOTE1:	In step 2, if the Cell to be Broadcast List IE is not included in the WRITE-REPLACE WARNING REQUEST message, the gNB-DU shall broadcast the indicated message in all the served cells.

##### 4.2.7.1.2 F1-C IE handling

### 4.2.8 NG-RAN Node Configuration Update

The purpose of the NG-RAN node Configuration Update procedure is to update application level configuration data needed for two NG-RAN nodes to interoperate correctly over the Xn-C interface.

#### 4.2.8.1 Served Cell information update

The purpose is to update the Served Cell Information between gNBs.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| SUL Information | Not used |

##### 4.2.8.1.1 Message flow for Xn

##### 4.2.8.1.2 Xn-C IE handling

##### 4.2.8.1.3 Message flow for Xn and F1

NOTE1:	If the gNB1 DU requests to add, modify or delete cells via GNB-DU CONFIGURATION UPDATE message, the step1a and step 1b (OPT1) will be performed. The gNB1 CU may deactivate cells via GNB-DU CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE message in step 1b (OPT1).

NOTE2:	If the gNB1 CU requests the gNB1 DU to activate cells via GNB-DU CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE message in step 1b (OPT1), then the gNB1 DU will trigger additional GNB-DU CONFIGURATION UPDATE procedure to inform the Service Status for activated cells (OPT2, chapter 4.2.4.1.2.3).

NOTE3:	If the gNB1 CU requests the gNB1 DU to activate or deactivate cells via GNB-CU CONFIGURATION UPDATE message, steps 1c and 1d (OPT3) will be performed with the IE handling as described in section 4.2.5.1.2.

##### 4.2.8.1.4 F1-C IE handling

The cell deletion is achieved by including Served Cells To Delete List IE in GNB-DU CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE message of use case Cell Deletion (chapter 4.2.4.1.2.2).

The cell deactivation may be achieved by including Cells to be Deactivated List IE in GNB-DU CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE message of any of the use cases Cell addition (chapter 7.4.1.4.1), Cell modification (chapter 7.4.1.4.2) Cell deletion (chapter 4.2.4.1.2.2), or Service Status change (chapter 4.2.4.1.2.3).

The cell deactivation may be achieved by including Cells to be Deactivated List IE in GNB-CU CONFIGURATION UPDATE message from the gNB-CU of use case Cell deactivation (chapter 4.2.5.1.2.2).

### 4.2.9 Mobility Load Balancing

#### 4.2.9.1 Resource Status Reporting Initiation

The purpose is to request the reporting of load measurements to the target node by the source node.

##### 4.2.9.1.1 Message flow for Xn

##### 4.2.9.1.2 Xn-C IE handling

##### 4.2.9.1.3 Message flow for F1

##### 4.2.9.1.4 F1-C IE handling

#### 4.2.9.2 Resource Status Reporting

The purpose is to report the result of load measurements admitted by the target node following a successful Resource Status Reporting Initiation procedure.

##### 4.2.9.2.1 Message flow for Xn

##### 4.2.9.2.2 Xn-C IE handling

##### 4.2.9.2.3 Message flow for F1

##### 4.2.9.2.4 F1-C IE handling

# 5 EN-DC procedures

This section provides the control plane profile to achieve interoperability for UE associated procedures as defined in TS 36.423 [2], TS 38.473 [3] and TS 38.331 [4]. In this version of the profile, the following procedures are defined:

- Secondary Node Addition
- Secondary Node Release
- Secondary Node Change
- Inter-Master Node Handover
- Master Node to eNB/gNB Change
- Secondary Node Modification
- RRC Transfer
- E-UTRA-NR Cell Resource Coordination

## 5.1 Secondary Node Addition

### 5.1.1 Secondary Node Addition (Option 3x)

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 3x (i.e. SN terminated split bearer) |
| Signalling radio bearer | SRB1 (SRB3 optionally used) |
| Bearer type | Non-GBR bearer |
| Split SRB | Not used |
| PDCP SN Length | MeNB: 12bit PDCP SN or 18bit PDCP SN SgNB: 18bit PDCP SN |
| DL data forwarding | Used |
| UL data forwarding | Optionally Used |

#### 5.1.1.1 Message flow for X2

NOTE1:	SN Status Transfer is executed in step 7 for the bearers using RLC AM

NOTE2:	UL Data forwarding handling is executed optionally in step 8

NOTE3:	This is a clarification of Step1, CG-ConfigInfo>configRestrictInfo. The list of band combinations sent by MN shall not restrict SN's selection process for suitable SCG bands provided by UE. Any down-selection by MN shall only be applied on PCell band.

NOTE4:	This is a clarification of Step1, CG-ConfigInfo>configRestrictInfo. MN sorts Allowed BC (bandCombinationIndex, FeatureSetEntryIndex) in order of MN recommendation and transmits to SN. And SN decides on its own priorities. In case there are multiple matches with same priorities for SN only then the MN preference takes effect by fetching the one that is matching SN preference AND is highest on MN preference.

NOTE5:	This use case also supports MN initiated measurement Id coordination.

#### 5.1.1.2 X2-C IE handling

#### 5.1.1.3 Message flow for X2 and F1

NOTE1:	SN Status Transfer is executed in step 7 for the bearers using RLC AM

NOTE2:	UL Data forwarding handling is executed optionally in step 8

NOTE3:	This is a clarification of Step1, CG-ConfigInfo>configRestrictInfo. The list of band combinations sent by MeNB shall not restrict gNB-DU's selection process for suitable SCG bands provided by UE. Any down-selection by MeNB shall only be applied on PCell band.

NOTE4:	This is a clarification of Step1, CG-ConfigInfo>configRestrictInfo. MeNB sorts Allowed BC (bandCombinationIndex, FeatureSetEntryIndex) in order of MeNB recommendation and transmits to gNB-CU. And gNB-DU decides on its own priorities. In case there are multiple matches with the same priorities for gNB-DU only then the MeNB preference takes effect by fetching the one that is matching gNB-DU preference AND is highest on MeNB preference.

#### 5.1.1.4 F1-C IE handling

### 5.1.2 Secondary Node Addition (Option 3a)

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 3a (i.e. SN terminated SCG bearer) |
| Signalling radio bearer | SRB1 (SRB3 optionally used) |
| Bearer type | Non-GBR bearer |
| Split SRB | Not used |
| PDCP SN Length | 18bit PDCP SN |
| DL data forwarding | Used |
| UL data forwarding | Optionally Used |

#### 5.1.2.1 Message flow for X2

NOTE1:	SN Status Transfer is executed in step 7 for the bearers using RLC AM

NOTE2:	UL Data forwarding handling is executed optionally in step 8

NOTE3:	This is a clarification of Step1, CG-ConfigInfo>configRestrictInfo. The list of band combinations sent by MN shall not restrict SN's selection process for suitable SCG bands provided by UE. Any down-selection by MN shall only be applied on PCell band.

NOTE4:	This is a clarification of Step1, CG-ConfigInfo>configRestrictInfo. MN sorts Allowed BC (bandCombinationIndex, FeatureSetEntryIndex) in order of MN recommendation and transmits to SN. And SN decides on its own priorities. In case there are multiple matches with same priorities for SN only then the MN preference takes effect by fetching the one that is matching SN preference AND is highest on MN preference.

NOTE5:	This use case also supports MN initiated measurement Id coordination

#### 5.1.2.2 X2-C IE handling

#### 5.1.2.3 Message flow for X2 and F1

NOTE1:	SN Status Transfer is executed in step 7 for the bearers using RLC AM

NOTE2:	UL Data forwarding handling is executed optionally in step 8

NOTE3:	This is a clarification of Step1, CG-ConfigInfo>configRestrictInfo. The list of band combinations sent by MeNB shall not restrict gNB-DU's selection process for suitable SCG bands provided by UE. Any down-selection by MeNB shall only be applied on PCell band.

NOTE4:	This is a clarification of Step1, CG-ConfigInfo>configRestrictInfo. MeNB sorts Allowed BC (bandCombinationIndex, FeatureSetEntryIndex) in order of MeNB recommendation and transmits to gNB-CU. And gNB-DU decides on its own priorities. In case there are multiple matches with same priorities for gNB-DU only then the MeNB preference takes effect by fetching the one that is matching gNB-DU preference AND is highest on MeNB preference.

#### 5.1.2.4 F1-C IE handling

## 5.2 Secondary Node Release

### 5.2.1 Secondary Node Release (MN initiated, Option 3x or SN terminated MCG bearer)

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 3x (i.e. SN terminated split bearer) or SN terminated MCG bearer |
| PDCP SN Length | 18bit PDCP SN |
| DL data forwarding | Used |
| UL data forwarding | Optionally Used |

#### 5.2.1.1 Message flow for X2

NOTE1:	It does not necessarily need to involve signalling towards the UE in step 3 and 4, e.g., in case of the RRC connection re-establishment due to Radio Link Failure in MN.

NOTE2:	SN Status Transfer is executed in step 5 for the bearers using RLC AM

NOTE3:	UL Data forwarding handling is executed optionally in step 6

NOTE4:	UL Data forwarding handling won’t be done in step 6, if UE connection is released by MME.

NOTE5:	Secondary RAT Data Usage Report is executed optionally in step 7, if SN supports this procedure.

NOTE6:	If data forwarding is applied, step 7 can take place before step 6. The SN does not need to wait for the end of data forwarding to send the Secondary RAT Data Usage Report.

#### 5.2.1.2 X2-C IE handling

#### 5.2.1.3 Message flow for X2 and F1

NOTE1:	If the gNB has SN terminated split bearer (i.e. option 3x), the gNB-CU performs UE Context Modification procedure to the gNB-DU in order to stop the data transmission for the UE in step 2a/2b. It is up to gNB-DU implementation when to stop the UE scheduling.

NOTE2:	It does not necessarily need to involve signalling towards the UE in step 3 and 4, e.g., in case of the RRC connection re-establishment due to Radio Link Failure in MN.

NOTE3:	SN Status Transfer is executed in step 5 for the bearers using RLC AM

NOTE4:	UL Data forwarding handling is executed optionally in step 6.

NOTE5:	Secondary RAT Data Usage Report is executed optionally in step 7, if SN supports this procedure.

NOTE6:	If data forwarding is applied, step 7 can take place before step 6. The SN does not need to wait for the end of data forwarding to send the Secondary RAT Data Usage Report.

NOTE7:	If the gNB has SN terminated split bearer (i.e. option 3x), the gNB-CU performs UE Context Release procedure in step 9a/9b.

#### 5.2.1.4 F1-C IE handling

### 5.2.2 Secondary Node Release (SN initiated, Option 3x or SN terminated MCG bearer)

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 3x (i.e. SN terminated split bearer) or SN terminated MCG bearer |
| PDCP SN Length | 18bit PDCP SN |
| DL data forwarding | Used |
| UL data forwarding | Optionally Used |

#### 5.2.2.1 Message flow for X2

NOTE1:	It does not necessarily need to involve signalling towards the UE in step 3 and 4, e.g., in case of the RRC connection re-establishment due to Radio Link Failure in MN.

NOTE2:	SN Status Transfer is executed in step 5 for the bearers using RLC AM

NOTE3:	UL Data forwarding handling is executed optionally in step 6

NOTE4:	Secondary RAT Data Usage Report is executed optionally in step 7, if SN supports this procedure.

NOTE5:	If data forwarding is applied, step 7 can take place before step 6. The SN does not need to wait for the end of data forwarding to send the Secondary RAT Data Usage Report.

#### 5.2.2.2 X2-C IE handling

#### 5.2.2.3 Message flow for X2 and F1

NOTE1:	In case of gNB-DU initiated use case, the gNB-DU may send UE Context Release Request message to the gNB-CU in step 1a.

NOTE2:	If the gNB has SN terminated split bearer (i.e. option 3x), the gNB-CU performs UE Context Modification procedure to the gNB-DU in order to stop the data transmission for the UE in step 2a/2b. It is up to gNB-DU implementation when to stop the UE scheduling.

NOTE3:	It does not necessarily need to involve signalling towards the UE in step 3 and 4, e.g., in case of the RRC connection re-establishment due to Radio Link Failure in MN.

NOTE4:	SN Status Transfer is executed in step 5 for the bearers using RLC AM

NOTE5:	UL Data forwarding handling is executed optionally in step 6

NOTE6:	Secondary RAT Data Usage Report is executed optionally in step 7, if SN supports this procedure.

NOTE7:	If data forwarding is applied, step 7 can take place before step 6. The SN does not need to wait for the end of data forwarding to send the Secondary RAT Data Usage Report.

NOTE8:	If the gNB has SN terminated split bearer (i.e. option 3x), the gNB-CU performs UE Context Release procedure in step 9a/9b.

#### 5.2.2.4 F1-C IE handling

### 5.2.3 Secondary Node Release (MN initiated, Option 3a)

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 3a (i.e. SN terminated SCG bearer) |
| PDCP SN Length | 18bit PDCP SN |
| DL data forwarding | Used |
| UL data forwarding | Optionally Used |

#### 5.2.3.1 Message flow for X2

NOTE1:	It does not necessarily need to involve signalling towards the UE in step 3 and 4, e.g., in case of the RRC connection re-establishment due to Radio Link Failure in MN.

NOTE2:	SN Status Transfer is executed in step 5 for the bearers using RLC AM.

NOTE3:	UL Data forwarding handling is executed optionally in step 6

NOTE4:	Data forwarding handling won’t be done in step 6, if UE connection is released by MME.

NOTE5:	Secondary RAT Data Usage Report is executed optionally in step 7, if SN supports this procedure.

NOTE6:	If data forwarding is applied, step 7 can take place before step 6. The SN does not need to wait for the end of data forwarding to send the Secondary RAT Data Usage Report.

#### 5.2.3.2 X2-C IE handling

#### 5.2.3.3 Message flow for X2 and F1

NOTE1:	If the gNB has SN terminated SCG bearer (i.e. option 3a), the gNB-CU performs UE Context Modification procedure to the gNB-DU in order to stop the data transmission for the UE in step 2a/2b. It is up to gNB-DU implementation when to stop the UE scheduling.

NOTE2:	It does not necessarily need to involve signalling towards the UE in step 3 and 4, e.g., in case of the RRC connection re-establishment due to Radio Link Failure in MN.

NOTE3:	SN Status Transfer is executed in step 5 for the bearers using RLC AM

NOTE4:	UL Data forwarding handling is executed optionally in step 6

NOTE5:	Secondary RAT Data Usage Report is executed optionally in step 7, if SN supports this procedure.

NOTE6:	If data forwarding is applied, step 7 can take place before step 6. The SN does not need to wait for the end of data forwarding to send the Secondary RAT Data Usage Report.

#### 5.2.3.4 F1-C IE handling

### 5.2.4 Secondary Node Release (SN initiated, Option 3a)

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 3a (i.e. SN terminated SCG bearer) |
| PDCP SN Length | 18bit PDCP SN |
| DL data forwarding | Used |
| UL data forwarding | Optionally Used |

#### 5.2.4.1 Message flow for X2

NOTE1:	It does not necessarily need to involve signalling towards the UE in step 3 and 4, e.g., in case of the RRC connection re-establishment due to Radio Link Failure in MN.

NOTE2:	SN Status Transfer is executed in step 5 for the bearers using RLC AM

NOTE3:	UL Data forwarding handling is executed optionally in step 6

NOTE4:	Secondary RAT Data Usage Report is executed optionally in step 7, if SN supports this procedure.

NOTE5:	If data forwarding is applied, step 7 can take place before step 6. The SN does not need to wait for the end of data forwarding to send the Secondary RAT Data Usage Report.

#### 5.2.4.2 X2-C IE handling

#### 5.2.4.3 Message flow for X2 and F1

NOTE1:	In case of gNB-DU initiated use case, the gNB-DU may send UE Context Release Request message to the gNB-CU in step 1a.

NOTE2:	If the gNB has SN terminated SCG bearer (i.e. option 3a), the gNB-CU performs UE Context Modification procedure to the gNB-DU in order to stop the data transmission for the UE in step 2a/2b. It is up to gNB-DU implementation when to stop the UE scheduling.

NOTE3:	It does not necessarily need to involve signalling towards the UE in step 3 and 4, e.g., in case of the RRC connection re-establishment due to Radio Link Failure in MN.

NOTE4:	SN Status Transfer is executed in step 5 for the bearers using RLC AM

NOTE5:	UL Data forwarding handling is executed optionally in step 6

NOTE6:	Secondary RAT Data Usage Report is executed optionally in step 7, if SN supports this procedure.

NOTE7:	If data forwarding is applied, step 7 can take place before step 6. The SN does not need to wait for the end of data forwarding to send the Secondary RAT Data Usage Report.

#### 5.2.4.4 F1-C IE handling

## 5.3 Secondary Node Change

### 5.3.1 Secondary Node Change (MN initiated, Option 3x, SN term. MCG bearer)

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 3x (i.e. SN terminated split bearer) , Option “SN terminated MCG bearer”. |
| Signalling radio bearer | SRB1 (SRB3 optionally used) |
| Bearer type | Non-GBR bearer |
| Split SRB | Not used |
| PDCP SN Length | 18bit PDCP SN |
| DL data forwarding | Used |
| UL data forwarding | Optionally Used |

#### 5.3.1.1 Message flow for X2

NOTE1:	Step 10 is optional

NOTE2:	This is a clarification of Step1, CG-ConfigInfo>configRestrictInfo. However, this clarification is only applicable in case of transition from SN terminated MCG bearer to SN terminated split bearer. The list of band combinations sent by MN shall not restrict T-SN's selection process for suitable SCG bands provided by UE. Any down-selection by MN shall only be applied on PCell band.

NOTE3:	This is a clarification of Step1, CG-ConfigInfo>configRestrictInfo. However, this clarification is only applicable in case of transition from SN terminated MCG bearer to SN terminated split bearer. MN sorts Allowed BC (bandCombinationIndex, FeatureSetEntryIndex) in order of MN recommendation and transmits to T-SN. And T-SN decides on its own priorities. In case there are multiple matches with same priorities for T-SN only then the MN preference takes effect by fetching the one that is matching T-SN preference AND is highest on MN preference.

#### 5.3.1.2 X2-C IE handling

#### 5.3.1.3 Message flow for X2 and F1

NOTE1:	In case SN terminated MCG bearer, MN may decide to continue to keep E-RABs as SN terminated MCG bearers in new target SN, when steps 1a/b are not needed.

NOTE2:	In case of SN change is triggered when E-RABs are in SN terminated MCG bearer, Steps 3a/b and 17a/b are not needed.

NOTE3:	This is a clarification of Step1, CG-ConfigInfo>configRestrictInfo. However, this clarification is only applicable in case of transition from SN terminated MCG bearer to SN terminated split bearer. The list of band combinations sent by MN shall not restrict T-SN-DU's selection process for suitable SCG bands provided by UE. Any down-selection by MN shall only be applied on PCell band.

NOTE4:	This is a clarification of Step1, CG-ConfigInfo>configRestrictInfo. However, this clarification is only applicable in case of transition from SN terminated MCG bearer to SN terminated split bearer. MN sorts Allowed BC (bandCombinationIndex, FeatureSetEntryIndex) in order of MN recommendation and transmits to T-SN-CU. And T-SN-DU decides on its own priorities. In case there are multiple matches with same priorities for T-SN-DU only then the MN preference takes effect by fetching the one that is matching T-SN-DU preference AND is highest on MN preference.

#### 5.3.1.4 F1-C IE handling

### 5.3.2 Secondary Node Change (SN initiated, Option 3x)

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 3x (i.e. SN terminated split bearer) |
| Signalling radio bearer | SRB1 (SRB3 optionally used) |
| Bearer type | Non-GBR bearer |
| Split SRB | Not used |
| PDCP SN Length | 18bit PDCP SN |
| DL data forwarding | Used |
| UL data forwarding | Optionally Used |

#### 5.3.2.1 Message flow for X2

NOTE1:	Step 11 is optional

NOTE2:	This use case also supports SN initiated measurement Id coordination

#### 5.3.2.2 X2-C IE handling

#### 5.3.2.3 Message flow for X2 and F1

#### 5.3.2.4 F1-C IE handling

## 5.4 Inter-Master Node Handover

### 5.4.1 Inter-Master Node Handover (without SN Change, Option 3x)

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 3x (i.e. SN terminated split bearer) |
| Signalling radio bearer | SRB1 (SRB3 optionally used) |
| Bearer type | Non-GBR bearer |
| Split SRB | Not used |
| PDCP SN Length | 18bit PDCP SN |
| DL data forwarding | Used |
| UL data forwarding | Optionally Used |

#### 5.4.1.1 Message flow for X2

#### 5.4.1.2 X2-C IE Handling

#### 5.4.1.3 Message flow for X2 and F1- Inter gNB-DU PSCell change

#### 5.4.1.4 F1-C IE handling

#### 5.4.1.5 Message flow for X2 and F1 – Intra gNB-DU PSCell change or Security key change only

NOTE:	gNB-DU configuration query is not necessarily needed for the Intra gNBDU PSCell changes, but it is implementation specific if used or not.

#### 5.4.1.6 F1-C IE handling

### 5.4.2 Inter-Master Node Handover (with SN Change, Option 3x)

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 3x (i.e. SN terminated split bearer) |
| Signalling radio bearer | SRB1 (SRB3 optionally used) |
| Bearer type | Non-GBR bearer |
| Split SRB | Not used |
| PDCP SN Length | 18bit PDCP SN |
| DL data forwarding | Used |
| UL data forwarding | Optionally Used |

#### 5.4.2.1 Message flow for X2

NOTE1:	SN Status Transfer is executed in steps 12, 13 and 14 for the bearers using RLC AM

NOTE2:	UL Data forwarding handling is executed optionally in step 15

NOTE3:	This procedure can also be used for intra-MN handover procedures

NOTE4:	The SCG configuration query (MN initiated) procedure is described in more detail in section 5.6.4	SCG config query (MN initiated)

#### 5.4.2.2 X2-C IE Handling

#### 5.4.2.3 Message flow for X2 and F1- Inter gNB-DU PSCell change

NOTE1:	SN Status Transfer is executed in steps 12, 13 and 14 for the bearers using RLC AM

NOTE2:	UL Data forwarding handling is executed optionally in step 15

NOTE3:	This procedure can also be used for intra-MN handover procedures

NOTE4:	The SCG configuration query (MN initiated) and the gNB-DU-configuration query procedures are described in more detail in section 5.6.4	SCG config query (MN initiated).

#### 5.4.2.4 F1-C IE handling

## 5.5 Master Node to eNB/gNB Change

### 5.5.1 Master Node to eNB Change

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 3x (i.e. SN terminated split bearer) |
| Bearer type | Non-GBR bearer |
| Split SRB | Not used |
| PDCP SN Length | 18bit PDCP SN |
| DL data forwarding | Used |
| UL data forwarding | Optionally Used |

#### 5.5.1.1 Message flow for X2

NOTE:	Steps 10a and 10b are optional

#### 5.5.1.2 X2-C IE Handling

#### 5.5.1.3 Message flow for X2 and F1

#### 5.5.1.4 F1-C IE handling

## 5.6 Secondary Node Modification

### 5.6.1 PCell change (Intra MN) (MN initiated)

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 3x (i.e. SN terminated split bearer) or SN terminated MCG bearer |
| Split SRB | Not used |

#### 5.6.1.1 Message flow for X2

NOTE1:	In case of SN terminated MCG bearer, Random Access Procedure isn’t performed in step 9

#### 5.6.1.2 X2-C IE handling

#### 5.6.1.3 Message flow for X2 and F1

NOTE1:	In case of SN terminated MCG bearer, steps 3a/b, 8a/b and 9 are not performed.

#### 5.6.1.4 F1-C IE handling

### 5.6.2 Allowed Band Combination list update (MN initiated)

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Used for Option 3x (i.e. SN terminated split bearer) or optionally used for SN terminated MCG bearer |
| Split SRB | Not used |

#### 5.6.2.1 Message flow for X2

NOTE1:	In step 1, Allowed Band Combination list update may be triggered by e.g., at PCell or SCell change or when removing an LTE-SCell.

NOTE2:	In case of SN terminated MCG bearer, steps 4-6 are not performed.

NOTE3:	In steps 4-6, if the UE Connectivity option is SN terminated split bearer (i.e. option 3x) and MN received NR RRCReconfiguration from SN, MN shall send X2AP: SgNB Reconfiguration Complete message to SN after receiving RRC: RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete message.

#### 5.6.2.2 X2-C IE handling

#### 5.6.2.3 Message flow for X2 and F1

NOTE1:	In step 1, Allowed Band Combination list update may be triggered by e.g., at PCell or SCell change or when removing an LTE-SCell.

NOTE2:	In case of SN terminated MCG bearer, steps 2a/b and 4-6b are not performed.

NOTE3:	In steps 4-6b, if the UE Connectivity option is SN terminated split bearer (i.e. option 3x) and MN-CU received NR RRCReconfiguration from SN-CU, MN-CU shall send X2AP: SgNB Reconfiguration Complete message to SN-CU after receiving RRC: RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete message.

#### 5.6.2.4 F1-C IE handling

### 5.6.3 Configured Band Combination update by PSCell/SCell change (SN initiated)

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 3x (i.e. SN terminated split bearer) |
| Signalling radio bearer | SRB1 (SRB3 optionally used) |
| Split SRB | Not used |

#### 5.6.3.1 Message flow for X2

NOTE1:	If PSCell and/or SCell Change procedure using SRB3 for RRC Reconfiguration is successfully completed and selectedBandCombination is updated, SgNB initiates this procedure.

#### 5.6.3.2 X2-C IE handling

### 5.6.4 SCG config query (MN initiated)

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 3x (i.e. SN terminated split bearer) or SN terminated MCG bearer |
| Split SRB | Not used |

#### 5.6.4.1 Message flow for X2

#### 5.6.4.2 X2-C IE handling

#### 5.6.4.3 Message flow for X2 and F1

NOTE:	In case of SN terminated MCG bearer gNB-DU configuration query is not done.

#### 5.6.4.4 F1-C IE handling

See 5.6.20.2

### 5.6.5 Security Key Change Procedure (MN initiated)

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 3x (i.e. SN terminated split bearer) or SN terminated MCG bearer |
| Split SRB | Not used |

#### 5.6.5.1 Message flow for X2

NOTE1:	In case of S-KgNB update scenario, Random Access Procedure in step 4 isn’t performed

NOTE2:	In step 7, Random Access Procedure isn’t performed in case of SN terminated MCG bearer

#### 5.6.5.2 X2-C  IE handling

#### 5.6.5.3 Message flow for X2 and F1

NOTE1:	In case of S-KgNB update scenario, Random Access Procedure in step 4 isn’t performed.

NOTE2:	Steps 1a/1b and steps 6a/6b aren’t performed in case of SN terminated MCG bearer.

NOTE3:	In step 7, Random Access Procedure isn’t performed in case of SN terminated MCG bearer.

#### 5.6.5.4 F1-C IE handling

### 5.6.6 Measurement Gap Coordination Procedure (MN initiated)

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 3x (i.e. SN terminated split bearer) |
| Split SRB | Not used |

#### 5.6.6.1 Message flow for X2

NOTE:	In step 2, SN should include scg-CellGroupConfig IE in X2AP: SgNB Modification Request Acknowledge message to receive X2AP: SgNB Reconfiguration Complete message in step 5.

#### 5.6.6.2 X2-C IE handling

#### 5.6.6.3 Message flow for X2 and F1

NOTE:	In step 2, SN should include scg-CellGroupConfig IE in X2AP: SgNB Modification Request Acknowledge message to receive X2AP: SgNB Reconfiguration Complete message in step 5.

#### 5.6.6.4 F1-C IE handling

### 5.6.7 Measurement Gap Coordination for per FR1 or per UE gap Procedure (SN initiated)

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 3x (i.e. SN terminated split bearer) |
| Split SRB | Not used |

#### 5.6.7.1 Message flow for X2

NOTE1:	MN ignores the 1st scg-CellGroupConfig IE received in SgNB Modification Required message in step 1 if it receives a 2nd scg-CellGroupConfig IE in SgNB Modification Request Acknowledge message in step 3.

NOTE2:	Step 6 uses X2AP: SgNB Modification Confirm message because SN initiated SN modification procedure is handled as the exception scenario described in TS 37.340 [1]

#### 5.6.7.2 X2-C IE handling

#### 5.6.7.3 Message flow for X2 and F1

NOTE1:	MN ignores the 1st scg-CellGroupConfig IE received in SgNB Modification Required message in step 1 if it receives a 2nd scg-CellGroupConfig IE in SgNB Modification Request Acknowledge message in step 3.

NOTE2:	Step 6 uses X2AP: SgNB Modification Confirm message because SN initiated SN modification procedure is handled as the exception scenario described in TS 37.340 [1].

#### 5.6.7.4 F1-C IE handling

### 5.6.8 Measurement Gap Coordination for per FR2 gap (with MN involvement) Procedure (SN initiated)

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 3x (i.e. SN terminated split bearer) |
| Split SRB | Not used |

#### 5.6.8.1 Message flow for X2

#### 5.6.8.2 X2-C IE handling

#### 5.6.8.3 Message flow for X2 and F1

#### 5.6.8.4 F1-C IE handling

### 5.6.8a Measurement Gap Coordination for per FR2 gap (without MN involvement) Procedure (SN initiated)

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| Signalling radio bearer | SRB3 used |

#### 5.6.8a.1 Message flow for F1

#### 5.6.8a.2 F1-C IE handling

### 5.6.9 UL Configuration Update Procedure (SN initiated)

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 3x (i.e. SN terminated split bearer) |
| Split SRB | Not used |

#### 5.6.9.1 Message flow for X2

#### 5.6.9.2 X2-C IE handling

#### 5.6.9.3 Message flow for X2 and F1

#### 5.6.9.4 F1-C IE handling

### 5.6.10 Addition of SN terminated split bearer (MN initiated)

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 3x (i.e. SN terminated split bearer) |
| Bearer type | Non-GBR bearer |
| Split SRB | Not used |
| PDCP SN Length | 18bit PDCP SN |
| DL data forwarding | Optionally needed |
| UL data forwarding | Optionally needed |

#### 5.6.10.1 Message flow for X2

#### 5.6.10.2 X2-C IE handling

#### 5.6.10.3 Message flow for X2 and F1

#### 5.6.10.4 F1-C IE handling

### 5.6.11 Removal of SN terminated split bearer (MN initiated)

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 3x (i.e. SN terminated split bearer) |
| Split SRB | Not used |
| PDCP SN Length | 18bit PDCP SN |
| DL data forwarding | Optionally Used |
| UL data forwarding | Optionally Used |

#### 5.6.11.1 Message flow for X2

NOTE:	Step 8 is optional

#### 5.6.11.2 X2-C IE handling

#### 5.6.11.3 Message flow for X2 and F1

#### 5.6.11.4 F1-C IE handling

### 5.6.12 Bearer type change from SN terminated split bearer to SN terminated MCG bearer (MN initiated)

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | From option 3x (i.e. SN terminated split bearer) to SN terminated MCG bearer |
| Split SRB | Not used |

#### 5.6.12.1 Message flow for X2

#### 5.6.12.2 X2-C IE handling

#### 5.6.12.3 Message flow for X2 and F1

NOTE1:	This version of the specification assumes all SN terminated split bearers of the UE are changed to SN terminated MCG bearer

NOTE2:	It is possible that all SN terminated split bearers are not changed at the same time to SN terminated MCG bearer. In that case UE Context Modification Request/Response is used to remove Bearer context from gNB-DU, allowing UE context to be kept in gNB-DU. This option is not part of this version of specification.

#### 5.6.12.4 F1-C IE handling

### 5.6.13 Bearer type change from SN terminated MCG bearer to SN terminated split bearer (MN initiated)

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | From SN terminated MCG bearer to Option 3x (i.e. SN terminated split bearer) |
| Signalling radio bearer | SRB1 (SRB3 optionally used) |
| Bearer type | Non-GBR bearer |
| Split SRB | Not used |
| PDCP SN Length | 18bit PDCP SN |

#### 5.6.13.1 Message flow for X2

NOTE1:	Step 6. RA procedure is not needed in case of UE has already another existing 3x bearer. This option is not part of this version of the specification.

NOTE2:	This is a clarification of Step1, CG-ConfigInfo>configRestrictInfo. The list of band combinations sent by MeNB shall not restrict SgNB's selection process for suitable SCG bands provided by UE. Any down-selection by MeNB shall only be applied on PCell band.

NOTE3:	This is a clarification of Step1, CG-ConfigInfo>configRestrictInfo. MeNB sorts Allowed BC (bandCombinationIndex, FeatureSetEntryIndex) in order of MeNB recommendation and transmits to SgNB. And SgNB decides on its own priorities. In case there are multiple matches with same priorities for SgNB only then the MeNB preference takes effect by fetching the one that is matching SgNB preference AND is highest on MeNB preference.

#### 5.6.13.2 X2-C IE handling

#### 5.6.13.3 Message flow for X2 and F1

NOTE1:	This version of the specification assumes all SN terminated MCG bearers of the UE are changed to SN terminated split bearers

NOTE2:	It is possible that all SN terminated MGG bearers are not changed at the same time to SN terminated split bearer. In that case, if UE has already SN terminated split bearer, RA procedure is not needed, and UE Context Modification Request/Response is used to add Bearer context to gNB-DU. This option is not part of this version of specification.

NOTE3:	This is a clarification of Step1, CG-ConfigInfo>configRestrictInfo. The list of band combinations sent by MeNB shall not restrict gNB-DU's selection process for suitable SCG bands provided by UE. Any down-selection by MeNB shall only be applied on PCell band.

NOTE4:	This is a clarification of Step1, CG-ConfigInfo>configRestrictInfo. MeNB sorts Allowed BC (bandCombinationIndex, FeatureSetEntryIndex) in order of MeNB recommendation and transmits to gNB-CU. And gNB-DU decides on its own priorities. In case there are multiple matches with the same priorities for gNB-DU only then the MeNB preference takes effect by fetching the one that is matching gNB-DU preference AND is highest on MeNB preference.

#### 5.6.13.4 F1-C IE handling

### 5.6.14 Bearer type change from SN terminated split bearer to SN terminated MCG bearer (SN initiated)

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | From option 3x (i.e. SN terminated split bearer) to SN terminated MCG bearer |
| Split SRB | Not used |

#### 5.6.14.1 Message flow for X2

#### 5.6.14.2 X2-C IE handling

#### 5.6.14.3 Message flow for X2 and F1

NOTE1:	This version of the specification assumes all SN terminated split bearers of the UE are changed to SN terminated MCG bearer.

NOTE2:	It is possible that all SN terminated split bearers are not changed at the same time to SN terminated MCG bearer. In that case UE Context Modification Request/Response is used to remove Bearer context from gNB-DU, allowing UE context to be kept in gNB-DU. This option is not part of this version of specification.

#### 5.6.14.4 F1-C IE handling

### 5.6.15 PSCell Change using SRB1 for RRC Reconfiguration – full configuration option

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 3x (i.e. SN terminated split bearer) |
| Bearer type | Non-GBR bearer |
| Split SRB | Not used |
| RRC config indication | “full config” |

#### 5.6.15.1 Message flow for X2

#### 5.6.15.2 X2-C IE Handling

#### 5.6.15.3 Message flow for X2 and F1 - Inter gNB-DU scenario

NOTE1:	If MeNB sends MeNB Resource Coordination Information IE in step 7, step 7a is done to send Resource Coordination Transfer Container IE to gNB-DU.

#### 5.6.15.4 F1-C IE Handling

### 5.6.16 PSCell Change using SRB1 for RRC Reconfiguration – delta configuration option

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 3x (i.e. SN terminated split bearer) |
| Bearer type | Non-GBR bearer |
| Split SRB | Not used |
| RRC config indication | “delta config” |

#### 5.6.16.1 Message flow for X2

NOTE1:	It is optional to change security key during PSCell change using delta configuration. This option is not used in this version of the specification and the message flow does not show the corresponding signalling.

#### 5.6.16.2 X2-C IE Handling

#### 5.6.16.3 Message flow for X2 and F1 - Inter gNB-DU scenario

NOTE1:	It is optional to change security key during PSCell change using delta config. This option is not used in this version of the specification and the message flow does not show the corresponding signalling.

NOTE2:	If MeNB sends MeNB Resource Coordination Information IE in step 5, step 5a is done to send Resource Coordination Transfer Container IE to gNB-DU.

NOTE3:	If the gNB-DU decides to perform full configuration after receiving the source cell group configuration in step2c, “PSCell Change using SRB1 for RRC Reconfiguration – full configuration option (Inter gNB-DU scenario)” described from step 2d in the section 5.6.15 is applied.

#### 5.6.16.4 F1-C IE Handling

### 5.6.17 Intra gNB-DU PSCell Change using SRB1 for RRC Reconfiguration

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 3x (i.e. SN terminated split bearer) |
| Bearer type | Non-GBR bearer |
| Split SRB | Not used |

#### 5.6.17.1 Message flow for X2 and F1 - Intra gNB-DU scenario

NOTE:	It is optional to change security key during intra gNB-DU PSCell change. This option is not used in this version of the specification and the message flow does not show the corresponding signalling.

#### 5.6.17.2 X2-C IE Handling

#### 5.6.17.3 F1-C IE Handling

### 5.6.18 Inter gNB-DU PSCell Change using SRB3 for RRC Reconfiguration

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 3x (i.e. SN terminated split bearer) |
| Bearer type | Non-GBR bearer |
| Split SRB | Not used |
| Full Configuration in Target gNB-DU | delta |
| Signalling radio bearer | SRB3 used |

#### 5.6.18.1 Message flow for F1 - Inter gNB-DU scenario

NOTE1:	In step 6, if the target gNB-DU doesn’t support the delta configuration option, the gNB-DU includes Full Configuration IE in this message. In this case, “PSCell Change using SRB1 for RRC Reconfiguration – full configuration option (Inter gNB-DU scenario)” described in section 5.6.15.1 is applied.

NOTE2:	If gNB-DU sends Resource Coordination Transfer Container IE to gNB-CU in step 6, the procedure described in section 5.6.15 or section 5.6.16 is used to send SgNB Resource Coordination Information IE to MeNB.

#### 5.6.18.2 F1-C IE Handling

### 5.6.19 Intra gNB-DU PSCell Change using SRB3 for RRC Reconfiguration

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 3x (i.e. SN terminated split bearer) |
| Bearer type | Non-GBR bearer |
| Split SRB | Not used |
| Signalling radio bearer | SRB3 used |

#### 5.6.19.1 Message flow for F1 - Intra gNB-DU scenario

NOTE:	If gNB-DU sends Resource Coordination Transfer Container IE to gNB-CU in step 1c, the procedure described in section 5.6.15 or section 5.6.16 is used to send SgNB Resource Coordination Information IE to MeNB.

#### 5.6.19.2 F1-C IE Handling

### 5.6.20 gNB-DU configuration query

#### 5.6.20.1 Message flow for F1 - gNB-DU configuration query

#### 5.6.20.2 F1-C IE handling

### 5.6.21 DRB ID change/Security Key Change (SN initiated)

The purpose of the DRB ID change procedure is to allow SgNB to request new DRB ID from MeNB in EN-DC for an already established SN terminated bearer in case of PDCP Count wrap around. Alternatively, Security Key change can be used also with this scenario, also to avoid PDCP Count wrap around for any of DRBs or SRBs.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 3x (i.e. SN terminated split bearer) |
| Bearer type | Non-GBR bearer |
| Split SRB | Not used |
| PDCP SN Length | 18bit PDCP SN |

#### 5.6.21.1 Message flow for X2

#### 5.6.21.2 X2-C IE handling

#### 5.6.21.3 Message flow for X2 and F1

#### 5.6.21.4 F1-C IE handling

### 5.6.22 Full Reconfiguration (SN initiated)

The purpose of the full reconfiguration procedure (SN initiated) is to reset PDCP COUNT using full reconfiguration option in case of PDCP Count wrap around.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 3x (i.e. SN terminated split bearer) |
| Bearer type | Non-GBR bearer |
| Split SRB | Not used |
| RRC config indication | “full config” |

#### 5.6.22.1 Message Flow for X2

NOTE:	In step 1, SgNB needs to set PDCP Change Indication IE to update S-KgNB.

#### 5.6.22.2 X2-C IE Handling

#### 5.6.22.3 Message Flow for X2 and F1

NOTE1:	In step 1a/1b, gNB-CU needs to get the full configuration information from gNB-DU.

NOTE2:	In step 1, SgNB needs to set PDCP Change Indication IE to update S-KgNB.

#### 5.6.22.4 F1-C IE Handling

### 5.6.23 Change of QCI (MN initiated)

The purpose of the Change of QCI procedure (MN initiated) is to modify QCI (and/or ARP) of the SN terminated split bearer. Modification is limited inside of non-GBR bearer. Trigger for the QCI change is always coming from MME.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 3x (i.e. SN terminated split bearer) |
| Bearer type | Non-GBR bearer |
| Split SRB | Not used |

#### 5.6.23.1 Message Flow for X2

#### 5.6.23.2 X2-C IE Handling

#### 5.6.23.3 Message Flow for X2 and F1

#### 5.6.23.4 F1-C IE Handling

### 5.6.24 Measurement ID Coordination (MN initiated)

The purpose of the measurement Id coordination performed between MN and SN is to ensure that configured measurements do not exceed the UE capabilities. In MN initiated measurement Id coordination, MN sends the maximum number of measurement identities of intra-frequency measurement to SN.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 3x (i.e. SN terminated split bearer) |
| Split SRB | Not used |

#### 5.6.24.1 Message flow for X2

Figure 5.6.24.1-1: Measurement ID Coordination – X2 message flow

NOTE1:	Steps 3-5 are optional and performed if there is conflict in measurement Id coordination. In this case, MN receives NR RRCReconfiguration from SN, and MN sends X2AP: SgNB Reconfiguration Complete message to SN after receiving RRC: RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete message.

#### 5.6.24.2 X2-C IE Handling

#### 5.6.24.3  Message flow for X2 and F1

NOTE1:	Steps 3-5 (including 5a and 5b) are optional and performed if there is conflict in measurement Id coordination. In this case, MN receives NR RRCReconfiguration from SN-CU, and MN sends X2AP: SgNB Reconfiguration Complete message to SN-CU after receiving RRC: RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete message.

#### 5.6.24.4 F1-C IE Handling

### 5.6.25 Measurement ID Coordination (SN initiated)

The purpose of the measurement Id coordination performed between MN and SN is to ensure that configured measurements do not exceed the UE capabilities. In SN initiated measurement Id coordination, SN requests MN for new maximum values of the number of measurement identities that it can configure for intra-frequency measurement on each serving frequency. MN responds with the maximum number of measurement identities to SN.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 3x (i.e. SN terminated split bearer) |
| Split SRB | Not used |

#### 5.6.25.1 Message flow for X2

Figure 5.6.25.1-1: Measurement ID Coordination (SN initiated) – X2 message flow

NOTE1:	Steps 4-6 are optional and performed if there is conflict in measurement Id coordination. In this case, MN receives NR RRCReconfiguration from SN, and MN sends X2AP: SgNB Modification Confirm message to SN after receiving RRC: RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete message.

#### 5.6.25.2 X2-C IE Handling

#### 5.6.25.3 Message flow for X2 and F1

Figure 5.6.25.3-1: Measurement ID Coordination (SN initiated) – X2 and F1 message flow

NOTE1:	Steps 4-6 (including 6a and 6b) are optional and performed if there is conflict in measurement Id coordination. In this case, MN receives NR RRCReconfiguration from SN-CU, and MN sends X2AP: SgNB Modification Confirm message to SN-CU after receiving RRC: RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete message.

#### 5.6.25.4 F1-C IE Handling

## 5.7 RRC Transfer

### 5.7.1 UE measurement transfer

The purpose of this procedure is to enable transfer of the NR RRC message container with the NR measurements or NR failure information from the MeNB to the en-gNB, when received from the UE.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 3x (i.e. SN terminated split bearer) |
| Split SRB | Not used |

#### 5.7.1.1 Message flow for X2

#### 5.7.1.2 X2-C IE handling

## 5.8 E-UTRA – NR Cell Resource Coordination

This section provides the relevant profiling information to achieve Dynamic Spectrum Sharing (DSS) interoperability for non-UE associated procedures as defined in TS 36.423 [2] and TS 38.473 [3]. In this version of the profile, the following procedures are defined:

- E-UTRA - NR Cell Resource Coordination Request (MN initiated, Option 3x/3a)
- E-UTRA - NR Cell Resource Coordination Request (SN initiated, Option 3x/3a)

### 5.8.1 E-UTRA - NR Cell Resource Coordination (MN initiated, Option 3x/3a)

The purpose of the procedure is to exchange DSS information between MN and SN, procedure is initiated by MN.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 3x (i.e. SN terminated split bearer)      (or) Option 3a (i.e. SN terminated SCG bearer) |

#### 5.8.1.1 Message flow for X2

#### 5.8.1.2 X2-C IE handling

#### 5.8.1.3 Message flow for X2 and F1

#### 5.8.1.4 F1-C IE handling

### 5.8.2 E-UTRA - NR Cell Resource Coordination (SN initiated, Option 3x/3a)

The purpose of the procedure is to exchange DSS information between MN and SN, procedure is initiated by SN.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 3x (i.e. SN terminated split bearer)    (or)  Option 3a (i.e. SN terminated SCG bearer) |

#### 5.8.2.1 Message flow for X2

#### 5.8.2.2 X2-C IE handling

#### 5.8.2.3 Message flow for X2 and F1

#### 5.8.2.4 F1-C IE handling

# 6 NR procedures

This section provides description of control plane procedures to achieve interoperability for UE associated procedures as defined in 3GPP TS 38.401. In this version of the profile, the following procedures are defined:

- UE Initial Access and Registration Procedures
- UE Context Release
- UE Context Modification
- Inter gNB-Handover
- Intra gNB-Handover
- Inter gNB-DU Handover
- Inter RAT Handover
- RRC state transition
- RRC Connection Re-establishment
- System Information Procedures

## 6.1 UE Initial Access and Registration Procedures

This section provides a description for an Initial UE Context setup request procedure and Registration Procedures.

### 6.1.1 UE context creation (service request)

The purpose of the Attach/Service Request procedure is to register a new UE in the network i.e., create a new UE context in NG-RAN. In this use case the UE context creation includes setup of DRB.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 2 (NR stand alone) |
| SUL Access Indication | Not used |
| Signalling radio bearer | SRB0 – for RRCSetupRequest and RRCSetup SRB1 and SRB2 – after RRCSettupComplete |
| QoS Characteristics | Non-dynamic 5QI |
| PDU session setup requested | Yes, PDU Session Resource Setup Request List is included in INITIAL CONTEXT SETUP REQUEST message |
| UEAssistanceInformation reporting by UE | Not used |
| Bearer type | Non-GBR bearer & GBR bearer |

#### 6.1.1.1 Message Flow

In case optional F1 interface is not used the use-case description collapses to Uu and NG interface which are both outside scope of this specification. Hence no further details are provided here, however the message sequences can be easily derived from the flow on the following section.

#### 6.1.1.2 Message Flow over F1

NOTE1:	In case UE Capabilities are not provided by AMF in message 8. INITIAL UE CONTEXT SETUP REQUEST the message sequence as shown in the options box apply with additional UE CapabilityEnquiry procedure and related RRC Transfer messages.

NOTE2:	Messages 10. and 11 are send only once - depending on the need for UE capability Enquiry procedure.

NOTE3:	According to Ref [4] chapter 5.3.1.1 messages 11 and 12 (UE CapabilityEnquiry) or 17 and 18 (RRC Reconfiguration) can be initiated by gNB-CU after having activated AS security before receiving message 10 and 6 (SecurityModeComplete).

#### 6.1.1.3 F1-C IE handling

### 6.1.2 UE context creation (registration request)

The purpose of the procedure is to perform an initial registration of a UE in the network i.e., create a new UE context in NG- RAN for signaling only connection.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 2 (NR stand alone) |
| SUL Access Indication | Not used |
| Signalling radio bearer | SRB0 – for RRCSetupRequest and RRCSetup SRB1 – after RRCSetupComplete |
| QoS Characteristics | Not applicable |
| PDU session setup requested | No |

#### 6.1.2.1 Message Flow

In case optional F1 interface is not used the use-case description collapses to Uu and NG interface which are both outside scope of this specification. Hence no further details are provided here, however the message sequences can be easily derived from the flow in the following section.

#### 6.1.2.2 Message Flow over F1

NOTE1:	In case UE Capabilities are not provided by AMF in message 8. INITIAL CONTEXT SETUP REQUEST the message sequence as shown in the options box applies with additional UE CapabilityEnquiry procedure and related DL and UL RRC Transfer messages

NOTE2:	According to Ref [4] chapter 5.3.1.1 messages 11 / 16 can be initiated by gNB-CU after having activated ASsecurity before receiving message 10

NOTE3:	It is AMF decision to include NAS message Registration Accept either in message 8 or send separate optional message 15. The illustration here is used as example and outside scope of this specification

NOTE4:	NAS Authentication and Security depend on the AMF. It is outside the scope of this specification.

#### 6.1.2.3 F1-C IE handling

### 6.1.3 Registration Update

#### 6.1.3.1 Registration Update with Follow-on request

The purpose is to perform a registration update with Follow-on request in the network.

The parameter conditions, the F1 message flow and the F1-C IE handling from section 6.1.2 apply.

#### 6.1.3.2 Registration Update without Follow-on request

The purpose is to perform a registration update without Follow-on request in the network.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 2 (NR stand alone) |
| SUL Access Indication | Not used |
| Signalling radio bearer | SRB0 – for RRCSetupRequest and RRCSetup SRB1 – after RRCSetupComplete |
| QoS Characteristics | Not applicable |
| PDU Session setup requested | No |

##### 6.1.3.2.1 Message flow for F1

NOTE:	NAS Authentication and Security depend on the AMF. It is outside the scope of this specification.

##### 6.1.3.2.2 F1-C IE handling

## 6.2 UE Context Release

This section provides description for a UE Context Release procedure.

### 6.2.1 gNB-DU initiated UE Context Release

The purpose of the UE Context Release procedure is to release the logical NG-AP signaling connection and the associated User Plane connections, and RRC signaling and resources.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 2 (NR stand alone) |
| Signalling radio bearer | SRB1 |

#### 6.2.1.1 Message flow for F1

NOTE1:	In case of the gNB-DU initiated UE Context Release procedure, the gNB-DU will send the UE Context Release Request message to the gNB-CU in step 1

NOTE2:	In case of the NG-RAN (gNB-CU/gNB-DU) initiated UE Context Release procedure, the gNB-CU will send the UE Context Release Request message to the AMF in step 2

NOTE3:	In step 4, the gNB-CU may not include the RRC-Container IE to avoid sending the RRCRelease message if it detects the disconnection from the UE.

#### 6.2.1.2 F1-C IE handling

### 6.2.2 gNB-CU initiated UE Context Release

The purpose of the UE Context Release procedure is to release the logical NG-AP signaling connection and the associated User Plane connections, and RRC signaling and resources.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 2 (NR Stand Alone) |
| Signalling radio bearer | SRB1,SRB2 |

#### 6.2.2.1 Message flow for F1

There are more than one trigger to perform gNB-CU initiated UE Context Release procedure for UE state as RRC connected, for example, EPS fallback for IMS emergency call by UE Context Modification Request/Response, or EPS fallback for IMS voice call by PDU Session Resource Modify Request/Response. Both examples are depicted in the figure below with OPT1 and OPT2, respectively. OPT 3 represents the measurement based redirection procedure which is implementation specific and optionally needed for the gNB-CU initiated UE Context Release.

NOTE 1:	NGAP message UE Context Modification Request in step 1a is received with Emergency Fallback Request Indicator for IMS emergency call

NOTE 2:	NGAP message PDU Session Resource Modify Request in step 1c is received containing a request to add a “QoS Flow for 5QI=1 triggering EPS Fallback” for IMS voice call

NOTE 3:	NGAP message UE Context Release Request contains UE release cause as “Redirection” for both IMS voice and IMS emergency call

#### 6.2.2.2 F1-C IE handling

## 6.3 UE Context Modification

This section provides a description for a UE Context Modification procedure.

### 6.3.1 gNB-CU initiated UE Context Modification

NOTE:	Random Access Procedure in Step 5 shall be performed if the RRC Reconfiguration message in steps 3 and step 4 is a reconfiguration with sync

#### 6.3.1.1 SCell to be setup/removed

The purpose of this procedure is to setup or remove SCell(s) for a UE.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 2 (NR stand alone) |

##### 6.3.1.1.1 F1-C IE handling

#### 6.3.1.2 DRB to be setup

The purpose of this procedure is to setup DRB(s) for a UE.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 2 (NR stand alone) |
| Bearer type | Non-GBR bearer & GBR bearer |
| PDCP SN Length | 18bit PDCP SN |
| PDCP Duplication | Optionally used for DRBs with NR-CA based PDCP duplication with the logical channels belonging to a common MAC entity. NR-CA is between Intra or Inter band carriers that are supporting Intra gNB-DU CA with common MAC entity. Duplication in UL and DL. |

NOTE1:	There are more than one trigger to setup DRBs, for example, addition of QoS Flows by PDU Session Resource Setup/ Modification Request, or based on internal decision by gNB-CU

##### 6.3.1.2.1 F1-C IE handling

#### 6.3.1.3 DRB to be released

The purpose of this procedure is to release DRB(s) for a UE.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 2 (NR stand alone) |

NOTE1:	There are more than one trigger to release DRBs, for example, release of QoS Flows by PDU Session Resource Release/ Modification Request, or based on internal decision by gNB-CU.

##### 6.3.1.3.1 F1-C IE handling

#### 6.3.1.4 DRX cycle activation/deactivation

The purpose of this procedure is to activate or deactivate DRX cycle for a UE.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 2 (NR stand alone) |

##### 6.3.1.4.1 F1-C IE handling

#### 6.3.1.5 Void

Void

#### 6.3.1.6 DRB to be modified

The purpose of this procedure is to modify DRB(s) for a UE.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 2 (NR stand alone) |
| Bearer type | Non-GBR bearer & GBR bearer |
| PDCP SN Length | 18bit PDCP SN |
| PDCP Duplication | Optionally used for DRBs with NR-CA based PDCP duplication with the logical channels belonging to a common MAC entity. NR-CA is between Intra or Inter band carriers that are supporting Intra gNB-DU CA with common MAC entity. Duplication in UL and DL. |
| E-UTRAN QoS | Not used |

NOTE1:	There are more than one trigger to modify DRBs, for example, modification of QoS Flows by PDU Session Resource Modify Request, or based on internal decision by gNB-CU.

##### 6.3.1.6.1 F1-C IE handling

#### 6.3.1.7 UE AMBR (for UL) modification

The purpose of this procedure is to modify the UE AMBR for UL.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 2 (NR stand alone) |

NOTE1:	In this use case, only the UE Context Modification procedure in Step 1-2 is performed.

NOTE2:	Trigger for this use case can be a new UE AMBR received from AMF.6.3.1.7.1	F1-C IE handling

##### 6.3.1.7.1 F1-C IE handling

### 6.3.2 gNB-DU initiated UE Context Modification

The gNB-DU initiated UE Context Modification procedure has two variants which are supported by 3GPP. The first variant uses an explicit indication of the RRC Reconfiguration completion procedure by using the UE CONTEXT MODIFICATION REQUEST/RESPONSE message sequence. The second variant uses an implicit indication sent with the UE CONTEXT MODIFICATION CONFIRM message. Both variants are depicted in the figure below with OPT1 and OPT2, respectively.

NOTE1:	The message sequence depicted as OPT 1 represents the explicit RRC reconfiguration completed indication variant

NOTE2:	The message sequence depicted as OPT2 represent the implicit RRC reconfiguration completed indication variant

#### 6.3.2.1 DRB to be released

The purpose of this procedure is to release DRB(s) for a UE. For this procedure both flow variants as described in section 6.3.2 apply.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 2 (NR stand alone) |

NOTE1:	The trigger to release DRBs is based on internal decision by the gNB-DU.

##### 6.3.2.1.1 F1-C IE handling

#### 6.3.2.2 DRB to be Modified

The purpose of this procedure is to modify DRB(s) for a UE. For this procedure both flow variants as described in section 6.3.2 apply.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 2 (NR stand alone) |
| PDCP Duplication | Optionally used for DRBs with NR-CA based PDCP duplication with the logical channels belonging to a common MAC entity. NR-CA is between Intra or Inter band carriers that are supporting Intra gNB-DU CA with common MAC entity. Duplication in UL and DL. |

NOTE1:	The trigger to modify DRBs is based on internal decision by the gNB-DU. One possible trigger for this use case is PDCP CA duplication.

##### 6.3.2.2.1 F1-C IE handling

#### 6.3.2.3 CellGroupConfig change

The purpose of this procedure is to change CellGroupConfig. For this procedure both flow variants as described in section 6.3.2 apply.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 2 (NR stand alone) |

NOTE1:	The trigger to initiate the context modification is based on an internal decision by the gNB-DU or by node parameter configuration.

##### 6.3.2.3.1 F1-C IE handling

### 6.3.3 QoS and QFI management

#### 6.3.3.1 PDU session establishment

The purpose of the PDU session establishment procedure is to create either the first PDU session after a UE has successfully registered with the network or an additional PDU session when one or more PDU sessions were established after registration. This procedure may include the setup of additional DRBs.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 2 (NR stand alone) |
| QoS Characteristics | Non-dynamic 5QI |
| PDCP SN Length | 18bit PDCP SN |

##### 6.3.3.1.1 Message Flow for F1

The message flow includes the F1 interface with messages applicable to this use case. The messages 1, 2 and 12 are included to depict the context of this use case. They are not part of the F1 use cases profile specified in section 6.3.3.1.2.

NOTE1:	During the QFI mapping decision the gNB-CU, in addition to establishing one or more DRBs, decides if existing DRBs used by already established PDU sessions are to be modified or released due to gNB-CU internal decisions. In this case, the F1-C profiles specified in section 6.3.1.6 and 6.3.1.3 apply.

##### 6.3.3.1.2 F1-C IE handling

F1-C profile specified in section 6.3.1.2 applies. In detail, steps 4 – 11 in this use case refer to steps 1 – 8 in section 6.3.1.2.

#### 6.3.3.2 New QoS Flow with Explicit NAS Signalling

The purpose of this use case is to add a New QoS flow with explicit NAS signalling when the gNB-CU receives a new QoS flow establishment request from CN. This procedure sets up a new DRB.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 2 (NR stand alone) |
| Bearer type | Non-GBR bearer & GBR bearer |
| QoS Characteristics | Non-dynamic 5QI |
| PDCP SN Length | 18bit PDCP SN |

##### 6.3.3.2.1 Message flow for F1

NOTE1:	In step 2, the gNB-CU receives a PDU SESSION RESOURCE MODIFY REQUEST message from AMF for a new QoS flow.

NOTE2:	During the QFI mapping decision, the gNB-CU may decide to reuse an existing DRB, or it may decide to establish a new DRB for the new QoS flow. In the case of reusing an existing DRB, the F1-C profile specified in section 6.3.1.6 applies.

##### 6.3.3.2.2 F1-C IE handling

The F1-C profile specified in section 6.3.1.2 applies. In detail, steps 4 – 11 in this use case refer to steps 1 – 8 in section 6.3.1.2.

#### 6.3.3.3 Release of QoS Flow with Explicit Signalling

The purpose is to release of QoS flow with explicit signalling when the gNB-CU receives a request to release QoS flow from CN.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 2 (NR stand alone) |
| Bearer type | Non-GBR bearer & GBR bearer |
| QoS Characteristics | Non-dynamic 5QI |
| PDCP SN Length | 18bit PDCP SN |

##### 6.3.3.3.1 Message flow for F1

NOTE1:	AMF initiates the PDU SESSION RESOURCE MODIFY REQUEST message to release a QoS flow.

NOTE2:	The gNB-CU decides to release corresponding the QFI to DRB mapping rule. If the DRB carries other QoS flows, the DRB is not released.

##### 6.3.3.3.2 F1-C IE handling

## 6.4 Inter gNB-Handover

### 6.4.1 Inter gNB HO

The purpose of the Inter gNB HO is to move UE to the cell of another gNB.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 2 (NR stand alone) |
| SUL Information | Not used |
| QoS Characteristics | Non-dynamic 5QI is assumed used by AMF |
| PDCP duplication | Optionally used for DRBs with NR-CA based PDCP duplication with the logical channels belonging to a common MAC entity. NR-CA is between Intra or Inter band carriers that are supporting Intra gNB-DU CA with common MAC entity. Duplication in UL and DL. |
| DL data forwarding | Used |
| UL data forwarding | Optionally Used |
| Bearer type | Non-GBR bearer & GBR bearer |

#### 6.4.1.1 Inter gNB Handover message flow for Xn

#### 6.4.1.2 Xn-C IE handling

#### 6.4.1.3 Inter gNB Handover message flow for Xn and F1

NOTE:	It is implementation specific if or when step 0 gNB-DU Configuration Query is needed for the source gNB-CU to obtain source cell configuration, in order to enable delta configuration to be used during Handover

#### 6.4.1.4 F1-C IE handling

#### 6.4.1.5 Inter gNB Handover message flow without Xn for F1

Note:	NG messages replacing the Xn messages in 6.4.1.1 and 6.4.1.3 are presented with same numbers in steps 1, 2, and 4.

#### 6.4.1.6 F1-C IE handling

See section 6.4.1.4.

## 6.5 Intra gNB-Handover

### 6.5.1 Intra gNB-DU, Intra Cell Handover

The purpose of the procedure is to provide Intra Cell HO e.g., in case of Security Key Change, DRBid change (PDCP Count wrap around) or Full Reconfiguration (PDCP Count wrap around) during NR operation.

In alternative 1, the gNB-CU sends the Transmission Action Indicator in UE Context Modification Request (Step 1) and the RRCReconfiguration in DL RRC Message Transfer (Step 3) to the gNB-DU.

In alternative 2, the gNB-CU sends the Transmission Action Indicator and RRCReconfiguration in UE Context Modification Request (Step 3) to the gNB-DU and the gNB-DU sends UE Context Modification Response in Step 5, in response to Step 3, to the gNB-CU.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 2 (NR stand alone) |
| Bearer type | Non-GBR bearer |
| PDCP SN Length | 18bit PDCP SN |
| SUL Access Indication | Not used |
| QoS Characteristics | Non-dynamic 5QI |

#### 6.5.1.1 Intra gNB-DU, Intra Cell Handover message flow, Alternative 1

NOTE:	It is up to gNB-CU implementation whether to start sending DL User Data to gNB-DU before or after reception of the Downlink Data Delivery Status.

#### 6.5.1.2 F1-C IE handling

#### 6.5.1.3 Intra gNB-DU, Intra Cell Handover message flow, Alternative 2

NOTE:	It is up to the gNB-CU implementation whether to start sending DL User Data to gNB-DU before or after reception of the 2nd Downlink Data Delivery Status

#### 6.5.1.4 F1-C IE handling

### 6.5.2 Intra gNB-DU, Inter Cell Handover

The purpose of the procedure is to provide UE connected mode mobility between cells of the same gNB-DU during NR operation.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 2 (NR stand alone) |
| Bearer type | Non-GBR bearer |
| PDCP SN Length | 18bit PDCP SN |
| PDCP Duplication | Optionally used for DRBs with NR-CA based PDCP duplication with the logical channels belonging to a common MAC entity. NR-CA is between Intra or Inter band carriers that are supporting Intra gNB-DU CA with common MAC entity. Duplication in UL and DL. |
| SUL Access Indication | Not used |

#### 6.5.2.1 Intra gNB-DU, Inter Cell Handover message flow, Alternative 1

NOTE:	It is up to gNB-CU implementation whether to start sending DL User Data to gNB-DU before or after reception of the Downlink Data Delivery Status

#### 6.5.2.2 F1-C IE handling

#### 6.5.2.3 Intra gNB-DU, Inter Cell Handover message flow, Alternative 2

NOTE:	It is up to gNB-CU implementation whether to start sending DL User Data to gNB-DU before or after reception of the 2nd Downlink Data Delivery Status

#### 6.5.2.4 F1-C IE handling

### 6.5.3 Inter gNB-DU Handover

The purpose of the procedure is to provide UE connected mode mobility within the same gNB-CU by moving to another gNB-DU during NR operation.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 2 (NR stand alone) |
| Bearer type | Non-GBR bearer |
| PDCP SN Length | 18bit PDCP SN |
| PDCP Duplication | Optionally used for DRBs with NR-CA based PDCP duplication with the logical channels belonging to a common MAC entity. NR-CA is between Intra or Inter band carriers that are supporting Intra gNB-DU CA with common MAC entity. Duplication in UL and DL. |
| SUL Access Indication | Not used |
| QoS Characteristics | Non-dynamic 5QI is assumed used by AMF |

#### 6.5.3.1 Inter gNB-DU Handover message flow

NOTE1:	It is implementation specific if or when step 3. gNB-DU Configuration Query is needed for gNB-CU to obtain source cell configuration, in order to enable delta configuration to be used during Handover

NOTE2:	It is up to gNB-CU implementation whether to start sending DL User Data to gNB-DU before or after reception of the Downlink Data Delivery Status.

#### 6.5.3.2 F1-C IE handling

### 6.5.4 Intra gNB-DU Handover with L1/L2 Triggered Mobility (LTM)

This procedure is used for handover cases when the UE moves between cells of the same gNB-DU. The gNB-CU applies LTM and defers the actual handover decision to the gNB-DU to reduce mobility latency.

The following parameter conditions are applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 2 (NR stand alone) |
| Bearer type | Non-GBR bearer |
| PDCP SN Length | 18bit PDCP SN |
| SUL Access Indication | Not used |
| QoS Characteristics | Non-dynamic 5QI is assumed used by AMF |

#### 6.5.4.1 Intra gNB-DU Handover with L1/L2 Triggered Mobility (LTM) message flow

NOTE1:	After step 2 the gNB-CU decides whether to apply LTM or not. This decision is implementation specific.

NOTE2: 	Steps 3 and 4 are repeated if the gNB-CU prepares multiple LTM candidate cells

NOTE3:	Early synchronization procedure of the UE for DL and UL on the candidate cell is in the scope of this specification

NOTE4:	Steps 17 and 18 are optional and apply if the gNB-CU decides to release candidate cells for LTM, which were defined in steps 3 and 4

#### 6.5.4.2 F1-C IE handling

## 6.6 <void>

## 6.7 <void>

## 6.8 Inter RAT Handover

### 6.8.1 Inter RAT HO to LTE

The purpose of the Inter RAT HO to LTE is to move UE from the NR cell to the LTE cell.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 2 (NR stand alone) |
| DL data forwarding | Optionally Used |
| UL data forwarding | Not Used |

#### 6.8.1.1 Inter RAT Handover to LTE message flow

#### 6.8.1.2 F1-C IE handling

### 6.8.2 Inter RAT HO to NR

The purpose of the Inter RAT HO to NR is to move UE from the LTE cell to NR cell.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 2 (NR stand alone) |
| DL data forwarding | Optionally Used |
| UL data forwarding | Not Used |
| Bearer type | Non-GBR and GBR. |

#### 6.8.2.1 Inter RAT Handover to NR message flow

Note:	gNB-CU may receive Data forwarding also optionally “directly” from eNB instead of via UPF

#### 6.8.2.2 F1-C IE handling

## 6.9 RRC state transition

### 6.9.1 RRC connected to RRC inactive

This use case profiles F1 procedures for the RRC state transition of a UE from RRC connected to RRC inactive. The use case is specified in [7] chapter 8.6.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 2 (NR stand alone) |

#### 6.9.1.1 RRC connected to RRC inactive message flow

#### 6.9.1.2 F1-C IE handling

### 6.9.2 RRC inactive to RRC connected (Intra gNB-CU)

This use case describes the F1 procedures use during UE transition from RRC inactive to RRC connected state with UP data exchange option.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 2 (NR stand alone) |

#### 6.9.2.1 RRC inactive to RRC connected message flow

NOTE1:	Optionally in case of DL data or DL signaling arrival paging procedure as shown in step 1 is triggered by gNB-CU

#### 6.9.2.2 F1-C IE handling

### 6.9.3 RRC inactive to RRC connected (Inter gNB-CU)

This use case describes the procedures during UE transition from RRC inactive to RRC connected state.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 2 (NR stand alone) |
| DL data forwarding | Optionally used |
| UL data forwarding | Not used |

#### 6.9.3.1 RRC inactive to RRC connected message flow for Xn

NOTE1:	The UE resumes from RRC_INACTIVE due to a network triggered transition, i.e. a RAN paging event occurs (due to e.g., incoming DL User plane traffic or DL signalling from 5GC) or due to a UE triggered transition.

NOTE2:	The Receiving gNB may trigger the Xn-U Address Indication procedure (step 6) with forwarding addresses to prevent loss of DL user data buffered in the last serving gNB.

#### 6.9.3.2 Xn-C IE handling

#### 6.9.3.3 RRC inactive to RRC connected message flow for Xn and F1

NOTE1:	The UE resumes from RRC_INACTIVE due to a network triggered transition, i.e. a RAN paging event occurs (due to e.g., incoming DL User plane traffic or DL signalling from 5GC) or due to a UE triggered transition.

NOTE2:	The Receiving gNB may trigger the Xn-U Address Indication procedure (step 6) with forwarding addresses to prevent loss of DL user data buffered in the last serving gNB

#### 6.9.3.4 F1-C IE handling

## 6.10 RRC Connection Re-establishment

### 6.10.1 RRC Connection Re-establishment (Intra gNB-DU)

The purpose of the RRC Connection Re-establishment (Intra gNB-DU) procedure is to reestablish the RRC connection to the same gNB-DU that was serving the UE prior to the failure.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 2 (NR stand alone) |
| Signalling radio bearer | SRB0, SRB1 |

#### 6.10.1.1 Message flow for F1

#### 6.10.1.2 F1-C IE handling

### 6.10.2 RRC Connection Re-establishment (Inter gNB-DU)

The purpose of the RRC Connection Re-establishment (Inter gNB-DU) procedure is to reestablish the RRC connection to the new gNB-DU other than the gNB-DU that was serving the UE prior to the failure.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 2 (NR stand alone) |
| Signalling radio bearer | SRB0, SRB1 |

#### 6.10.2.1 Message flow for F1

NOTE1:	It is implementation specific if or when gNB-DU Configuration Query procedure is needed for the gNB-CU to obtain source cell configuration in order to enable delta configuration to be used during re-establishment

#### 6.10.2.2 F1-C IE handling

### 6.10.3 Void

Void

### 6.10.4 RRC Connection Re-establishment (Inter gNB-CU)

The purpose of the RRC Connection Re-establishment (Inter gNB-CU) procedure is to reestablish the RRC connection to a new (target) gNB-CU and gNB-DU other than the source gNB-CU and gNB-DU that served the UE prior to the failure.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 2 (NR stand alone) |
| Signalling radio bearer | SRB0, SRB1 |
| DL data forwarding | Optionally Used |
| UL data forwarding | Optionally Used |

#### 6.10.4.1 Message flow for Xn

#### 6.10.4.2 Xn-C IE handling

#### 6.10.4.3 Message flow for Xn and F1

#### 6.10.4.4 F1-C IE handling

## 6.11 System Information Procedures

### 6.11.1 System Information Delivery

The purpose of the System Information Delivery procedure is to command the gNB-DU to broadcast the requested Other SI. The procedure uses non-UE associated signalling.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | NR stand alone |

#### 6.11.1.1 Message flow for F1

NOTE1:	The gNB-DU Configuration Update procedure may be performed in OPT1 to indicate for UEs that are unable to receive system information from broadcast. The gNB-CU shall inform the UEs with the updated system information via the dedicated RRC message, these procedures are outside scope of this version of the specification.

#### 6.11.1.2 F1-C IE handling

## 6.12 PDU session establishment after signalling-only connection

The purpose of the PDU session establishment after signalling-only connection procedure is to create a PDU session before establishment of SRB2 and DRB.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | Option 2 (NR stand alone) |
| Signalling radio bearer | SRB0, SRB1 |
| QoS Characteristics | Non-dynamic 5QI |
| Bearer type | Non-GBR bearer & GBR bearer |

### 6.12.1 Message Flow for F1

### 6.12.2 F1-C IE handling

# 7 NR-DC procedures

This section provides description of control plane procedures to achieve interoperability for NR-DC procedures as defined in Ref [1]. In this version of the profile, the following procedures are defined:

- S-NG-RAN node addition
- S-NG-RAN node modification
- S-NG-RAN node release
- NG-RAN node configuration update
- RRC Transfer
- Master Node to gNB Change
- Inter-Master Node Handover
- S-NG-RAN Node Change
- Intra Master Node Handover

## 7.1 S-NG-RAN NODE ADDITION

This section provides description of S-NG-RAN node addition procedure. Purpose is to establish a UE context at the SN in order to provide resources from the SN to the UE.

### 7.1.1 S-NG-RAN Node Addition

The purpose of the S-NG-RAN Node Addition procedure is to establish the UE context and relevant resources at the S-NG-RAN node.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | NR-DC stand alone, SN terminated split bearer option |
| Signalling radio bearer | SRB1 (SRB3 optionally used) |
| Bearer type | Non-GBR bearer |
| Split SRB | Not used |
| QoS Characteristics | Non-dynamic 5QI |
| PDCP duplication | Optionally used for DRBs; duplication in UL and DL, but limited to 1 RLC per gNB-DU. DC based PDCP duplication may be activated or deactivated e.g., due to changes in the radio quality of the S-NG-RAN node, changed need for redundancy or resource utilization, etc. |
| PDU Session split at UPF | Not supported |
| SUL Information | Not used |
| DL data forwarding | Used |
| UL data forwarding | Optionally Used |

#### 7.1.1.1 Message flow for Xn

NOTE1:	UL Data Forwarding is executed optionally in step 9

NOTE2:	This is a clarification of Step1, CG-ConfigInfo>configRestrictInfo. The list of band combinations sent by MN shall not restrict SN's selection process for suitable SCG bands provided by UE. Any down-selection by MN shall only be applied on PCell band.

NOTE3:	This is a clarification of Step1, CG-ConfigInfo>configRestrictInfo. MN sorts Allowed BC (bandCombinationIndex, FeatureSetEntryIndex) in order of MN recommendation and transmits to SN. And SN decides on its own priorities. In case there are multiple matches with same priorities for SN only then the MN preference takes effect by fetching the one that is matching SN preference AND is highest on MN preference.

#### 7.1.1.2 Xn-C IE handling

#### 7.1.1.3 Message flow for Xn and F1

NOTE1:	UL Data Forwarding is executed optionally in step 9

NOTE2:	This is a clarification of Step1, CG-ConfigInfo>configRestrictInfo. The list of band combinations sent by MN-CU shall not restrict SN-DU's selection process for suitable SCG bands provided by UE. Any down-selection by MN-CU shall only be applied on PCell band.

NOTE3:	This is a clarification of Step1, CG-ConfigInfo>configRestrictInfo. MN-DU sorts Allowed BC (bandCombinationIndex, FeatureSetEntryIndex) in order of MN-DU recommendation and MN-CU transmits to SN-CU. And SN-DU decides on its own priorities. In case there are multiple matches with same priorities for SN-DU only then the MN-DU preference takes effect by fetching the one that matches SN-DU preference AND is highest on MN-DU preference.

#### 7.1.1.4 F1-C IE handling

## 7.2 S-NG-RAN NODE MODIFICATION

This section provides description of S-NG-RAN node modification. It can be initiated either by the MN or by the SN and be used to modify the current user plane resource configuration or to modify other properties of the UE context within the same SN.

### 7.2.1 M-NG-RAN node initiated SN modification

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | NR-DC stand alone, SN terminated split bearer option. |
| Bearer type | Non-GBR bearer |
| Split SRB | Not used |
| Signaling radio bearer | SRB1 |
| SUL Information | Not used |
| QoS Characteristics | Non-dynamic 5QI |
| PDU Session split at UPF | Not supported |

#### 7.2.1.1 PDU Session addition

The purpose of the PDU Session Addition is to setup new PDU Session as SN terminated split bearer. PDU Session Addition will always result in new DRB addition in SN.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| PDCP duplication | Optionally used for DRBs; duplication in UL and DL, but limited to 1 RLC per gNB-DU. DC based PDCP duplication may be activated or deactivated e.g., due to changes in the radio quality of the S-NG-RAN node, changed need for redundancy or resource utilization, etc. |

##### 7.2.1.1.1 Message flow for Xn

NOTE1:	If SN terminated split bearer is added directly from new PDU Session Setup from AMF(blind addition), without PDU Session in MN terminated MCG bearer on MN side, step 7 and step 8 are not needed.

##### 7.2.1.1.2 Xn-C IE handling

##### 7.2.1.1.3 Message flow for Xn and F1

NOTE1:	If SN terminated split bearer is added directly from new PDU Session Setup from AMF (blind addition), without PDU Session in MN terminated MCG bearer on MN side, step 7 and step 8 are not needed and the DRB to Be Setup List IE of step 2a and DRB Setup List IE of step 2b are used as the 7.1.1.4 F1-C IE handling.

##### 7.2.1.1.4 F1-C IE handling

#### 7.2.1.2 PDU Session Release

The purpose of the MN initiated PDU Session release is to release all QoS flows of the PDU Session(s) from the UE and UE will keep at least one PDU Session after the completion of the PDU Session Release procedure. PDU Session Release will always result in at least one DRB release also.

##### 7.2.1.2.1 Message flow for Xn

NOTE1:	Steps 3, 7 and step 8 are needed when PDCP termination point is moved from SN to MN with data forwarding of the released DRB/PDU session is requested by SN and MN accepted.

NOTE2:	Step 9 is optional

##### 7.2.1.2.2 Xn-C IE handling

##### 7.2.1.2.3 Message flow for Xn and F1

NOTE:	In Step 2a, DRB(s) modification is done in case of PDU Session is kept in MN and PDCP termination point moved from SN to MN. DRB(s) Release is done when PDU Session is released also from MN.

##### 7.2.1.2.4 F1-C IE handling

#### 7.2.1.3 PDU Session Modification

##### 7.2.1.3.1 PDU Session Modification with QoS flow addition

The purpose of the PDU Session Modification with QoS flow addition is to add QoS Flow to existing PDU Session. Since PDU Session split at UPF, is not supported, the QoS flow will be added always directly as SN terminated split bearer without data forwarding/QoS flow offloading needed from MN. QoSs flow addition may cause DRB addition or DRB modification for DRB which has already QoSs flow(s) from same PDU Session.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| PDCP duplication | Optionally used for DRBs; duplication in UL and DL, but limited to 1 RLC per gNB-DU. DC based PDCP duplication may be activated or deactivated e.g., due to changes in the radio quality of the S-NG-RAN node, changed need for redundancy or resource utilization, etc. |

NOTE1:	Step 3 is needed only if a DRB is added

##### 7.2.1.3.2 PDU Session Modification with QoS flow release

The purpose of the PDU Session Modification with QoS flow release is to release a QoS flow from existing PDU Session without releasing the complete PDU Session. Since PDU Session split at UPF, is not supported, data forwarding/QoS flow offloading cannot be supported. QoS flow release may cause DRB release or DRB modification with removing QoS flow from DRB containing QoS flow(s) from same PDU Session.

NOTE:	The secondary RAT data volume reporting function is performed optionally in Step 6

##### 7.2.1.3.3 PDU Session Modification with 5QI change

The purpose of the PDU Session Modification with 5QI change is to modify a 5QI (and/or ARP) of the SN terminated split QoS flow from an existing PDU Session. A 5QI change is always triggered by an AMF.

Note:	Steps 2a/b can be also before Step 1, depending on the MN decision when DL UP tunneling end points of the split bearer on MN side is located in MN-DU.

#### 7.2.1.4 Security Key change

The purpose of the Security Key Change procedure is for the MN to initiate Security Key Change in both the SN and the MN and inform the UE.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| PDCP duplication | Optionally used for DRBs; duplication in UL and DL, but limited to 1 RLC per gNB-DU. DC based PDCP duplication may be activated or deactivated e.g., due to changes in the radio quality of the S-NG-RAN node, changed need for redundancy or resource utilization, etc. |

##### 7.2.1.4.1 Message flow for Xn

##### 7.2.1.4.2 Xn-C IE handling

##### 7.2.1.4.3 Message flow for Xn and F1

##### 7.2.1.4.4 F1-C IE handling

#### 7.2.1.5 SCG Configuration Query

The MN uses the procedure to query the current SCG configuration, e.g. when delta configuration is applied in an MN initiated SN change.

##### 7.2.1.5.1 Message flow for Xn

##### 7.2.1.5.2 Xn-C IE handling

##### 7.2.1.5.3 Message flow for Xn and F1

##### 7.2.1.5.4 F1-C IE handling

#### 7.2.1.6 Allowed Band Combination list update

The purpose of this section is to describe how the MN updates the Allowed Band Combination list previously notified to the SN to the current Allowed Band Combinations.

##### 7.2.1.6.1 Message flow for Xn

NOTE1:	In step 1, Allowed Band Combination list update may be triggered by e.g. at PCell or SCell change or when removing an NR-SCell.

NOTE2:	In steps 4-6, if MN received NR RRCReconfiguration from SN, MN shall send XnAP: S-Node Reconfiguration Complete message to SN after receiving RRC: RRCReconfigurationComplete message.

##### 7.2.1.6.2 Xn-C IE handling

##### 7.2.1.6.3 Message flow for Xn and F1

NOTE1:	In step 1, Allowed Band Combination list update may be triggered by e.g. at PCell or SCell change or when removing an NR-SCell.

NOTE2:	In steps 3a-6b, if MN-CU received NR RRCReconfiguration from SN-CU, MN-CU shall send XnAP: S-Node Reconfiguration Complete message to SN-CU after receiving RRC: RRCReconfigurationComplete message.

##### 7.2.1.6.4 F1-C IE handling

#### 7.2.1.7 PCell Change (Intra-MN)

The purpose of the PCell Change (Intra MN) (MN initiated) procedure is to update the SCG configuration in the S-NG-RAN node, as a result of the PCell Change procedure being performed in the M-NG-RAN node.

##### 7.2.1.7.1 Message flow for Xn

NOTE1:	If the PCell Change that requires an SN security key change is performed at the MN, step 2 (OPT) shall be performed.

##### 7.2.1.7.2 Xn-C IE handling

##### 7.2.1.7.3 Message flow for Xn and F1

NOTE1:	If the PCell Change that requires an SN security key change is performed at the MN, step 2 (OPT) shall be performed.

##### 7.2.1.7.4 F1-C IE handling

#### 7.2.1.8 Measurement Gap Coordination Procedure (MN initiated)

The purpose of the measurement gap coordination is to update the measurement configuration in the SN, when a measurement report is received by the MN from the UE or triggered by configuration data in the MN.

##### 7.2.1.8.1 Message flow for Xn

Figure 7.2.1.8.1-1: Measurement Gap Coordination (MN initiated) – Xn message flow

##### 7.2.1.8.2 Xn-C IE Handling

##### 7.2.1.8.3 Message flow for Xn and F1

Figure 7.2.1.8.3-1: Measurement Gap Coordination (MN-initiated) - Xn and F1 message flow

NOTE1:	Steps 5a and 5b are optional, executed if SCG CellGroupConfig was changed

##### 7.2.1.8.4 F1-C IE Handling

### 7.2.2 S-NG-RAN node initiated SN modification with MN involvement

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | NR-DC stand alone, SN terminated split bearer option. |
| Bearer type | Non-GBR bearer |
| Split SRB | Not used |
| SUL Information | Not used |
| QoS Characteristics | Non-dynamic 5QI |
| PDU Session split at UPF | Not supported |

#### 7.2.2.1 Void

Void

#### 7.2.2.2 PDU Session Release

The purpose of the procedure is for SN initiated PDU Session release with releasing all QoS flows of the PDU Session(s) from the UE and UE will keep at least one PDU Session after the completion of the PDU Session Release procedure. The procedure will result always in at least one DRB release.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| PDCP duplication | Optionally used for DRBs; duplication in UL and DL, but limited to 1 RLC per gNB-DU. DC based PDCP duplication may be activated or deactivated e.g., due to changes in the radio quality of the S-NG-RAN node, changed need for redundancy or resource utilization, etc. |

##### 7.2.2.2.1 Message flow for Xn

NOTE1:	Steps 5 and 6 are needed when PDU session is kept in MN and related SN terminated split bearers moved to MN terminated MCG bearers with forwarding supported

NOTE2:	Step 7 is optional

##### 7.2.2.2.2 Xn-C IE handling

##### 7.2.2.2.3 Message flow for Xn and F1

##### 7.2.2.2.4 F1-C IE handling

#### 7.2.2.3 Security Key Change

The purpose of the Security Key Change procedure is for the SN to initiate Security Key Change in both the SN and the MN and inform the UE.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| PDCP duplication | Optionally used for DRBs; duplication in UL and DL, but limited to 1 RLC per gNB-DU. DC based PDCP duplication may be activated or deactivated e.g., due to changes in the radio quality of the S-NG-RAN node, changed need for redundancy or resource utilization, etc. |

##### 7.2.2.3.1 Message flow for Xn

NOTE:	Since only SN security key is provided in step 2, the MN does not need to wait for the reception of step 3 to initiate the RRC connection reconfiguration procedure.

##### 7.2.2.3.2 Xn-C IE handling

##### 7.2.2.3.3 Message flow for Xn and F1

##### 7.2.2.3.4 F1-C IE handling

#### 7.2.2.4 PSCell change, Intra gNB-DU

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | NR-DC stand alone, SN terminated split bearer option |
| Bearer type | Non-GBR bearer |
| Conditinal PSCell change | Not used |
| Split SRB | Not used |
| Signaling radio bearer | SRB1 |
| RRC config indication | “delta config” or “full config” |

##### 7.2.2.4.1 Message flow for Xn

Figure 7.2.2.4-1: SN initiated SN Modification with MN involvement – PSCell Change

NOTE1:	Above message flow represents the case where RRC Measurement Report (section 7.5.1) is handled via SRB1

NOTE2:	The step 9 message SN Status Transfer is sent when RRC full configuration is not used

NOTE3:	The step 10 message Secondary RAT Data Usage Report is optionally sent

##### 7.2.2.4.2 Xn-C IE Handling

##### 7.2.2.4.3 Message flow for Xn and F1

Figure 7.2.2.4-2: SN initiated SN Modification with MN involvement – PSCell Change

##### 7.2.2.4.4 F1-C IE Handling

#### 7.2.2.5 PSCell change, Inter gNB-DU

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | NR-DC stand alone, SN terminated split bearer option |
| Bearer type | Non-GBR bearer |
| Conditional PSCell change | Not used |
| Split SRB | Not used |
| Signaling radio bearer | SRB1 |
| RRC config indication | “delta config” or “full config” |
| PDCP duplication | Optionally used for DRBs; duplication in UL and DL, but limited to 1 RLC per gNB-DU. DC based PDCP duplication may be activated or deactivated e.g., due to changes in the radio quality of the S-NG-RAN node, changed need for redundancy or resource utilization, etc. |

##### 7.2.2.5.1 Message flow for Xn

Figure 7.2.2.5-1: SN initiated SN Modification with MN involvement – PSCell Change, Inter gNB-DU

NOTE1:	Above message flow represents the case where RRC Measurement Report (section 7.5.1) is handled via SRB1

NOTE2:	The step 9 message SN Status Transfer is sent when RRC full configuration is not used

NOTE3:	The step 10 message Secondary RAT Data Usage Report is optionally sent

##### 7.2.2.5.2 Xn-C IE Handling

##### 7.2.2.5.3 Message flow for Xn and F1

Figure 7.2.2.5-2: SN initiated SN Modification with MN involvement – PSCell Change, Inter gNB-DU

NOTE1:	The step 1a and 1b is not needed when the SN-CU determines the RRC full configuration information

NOTE2:	If the CU to DU RRC Information IE does not include source cell group configuration in the step 1c, the gNB-DU shall generate the cell group configuration using full configuration. Otherwise, delta configuration is allowed.

##### 7.2.2.5.4 F1-C IE Handling

#### 7.2.2.6 UL Configuration Update

The purpose of the UL Configuration Update (SN initiated) procedure is to update the UL PDCP configuration for the S-NG-RAN node and indicate it to the M-NG-RAN node.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| PDCP duplication | Optionally used for DRBs; duplication in UL and DL, but limited to 1 RLC per gNB-DU. DC based PDCP duplication may be activated or deactivated e.g., due to changes in the radio quality of the S-NG-RAN node, changed need for redundancy or resource utilization, etc. |

##### 7.2.2.6.1 Message flow for Xn

##### 7.2.2.6.2 Xn-C IE handling

##### 7.2.2.6.3 Message flow for Xn and F1

Figure 7.2.2.6.3-1: SN initiated SN Modification with MN involvement – UL Configuration Update

NOTE1:	If the MN-CU decides to update the MCG UL Configuration, steps 2a and 2b shall be performed to indicate to the MN-DU that the UL Configuration is to be updated.

##### 7.2.2.6.4 F1-C IE handling

#### 7.2.2.7 Measurement Gap Coordination Procedure (SN initiated)

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | NR-DC stand alone, SN terminated split bearer option |
| Bearer type | Non-GBR bearer |
| Split SRB | Not used |
| Signaling radio bearer | SRB1 |

##### 7.2.2.7.1 Message flow for Xn

Figure 7.2.2.7.1-1: Measurement Gap Coordination (SN initiated) – Xn message flow

NOTE1:	MN ignores the 1st scg-CellGroupConfig IE received in S-Node Modification Required message in step 1 if it receives a 2nd scg-CellGroupConfig IE in S-Node Modification Request Acknowledge message in step 3.

##### 7.2.2.7.2 Xn-C IE Handling

##### 7.2.2.7.3 Message flow for Xn and F1

Figure 7.2.2.7.3-1: Measurement Gap Coordination (SN initiated) - Xn and F1 message flow

##### 7.2.2.7.4 F1-C IE Handling

#### 7.2.2.8 CellGroupConfig change (SN-DU initiated)

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure. The purpose of this procedure is to change the CellGroupConfig.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | NR-DC stand alone, SN terminated split bearer option |
| Bearer type | Non-GBR bearer |
| Split SRB | Not used |
| Signaling radio bearer | SRB1 |

NOTE1:	The trigger to initiate the context modification is based on an internal decision by the gNB-DU or by node parameter configuration.

##### 7.2.2.8.1 Message flow for Xn

Figure: 7.2.2.8.1-1: CellGroupConfig change (SN-DU initiated) – Xn message flow

##### 7.2.2.8.2 Xn-C IE Handling

##### 7.2.2.8.3 Message flow for Xn and F1

Figure 7.2.2.8.3-1: CellGroupConfig change (SN-DU initiated) - Xn and F1 message flow

##### 7.2.2.8.4 F1-C IE Handling

### 7.2.3 S-NG-RAN node initiated SN modification without MN involvement

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | NR-DC stand alone, SN terminated split bearer option. |
| Bearer type | Non-GBR bearer |
| Split SRB | Not used |
| SUL Information | Not used |
| QoS Characteristics | Non-dynamic 5QI |
| PDU Session split at UPF | Not supported |

#### 7.2.3.1 SRB3 not supported

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| Signalling radio bearer | SRB3 not used |

##### 7.2.3.1.1 SN Modification – SCell(s) Addition / Release

The purpose of the SN Modification is to add or release SCell(s) to SN without MN involvement. Since SRB3 is not supported, RRC messages used to configure UE are sent via MN, but MN is not involved in other way in procedure.

#### 7.2.3.2 SRB3 supported

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| Signalling radio bearer | SRB3 used |

##### 7.2.3.2.1 Intra gNB-DU PSCell Change using SRB3

The purpose of the procedure is to provide Intra gNB-DU PSCell Change using SRB3.

##### 7.2.3.2.2 Inter gNB-DU PSCell Change using SRB3

The purpose of the procedure is to provide Inter gNB-DU PSCell Change using SRB3.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| PDCP duplication | Optionally used for DRBs; duplication in UL and DL, but limited to 1 RLC per gNB-DU. DC based PDCP duplication may be activated or deactivated e.g., due to changes in the radio quality of the S-NG-RAN node, changed need for redundancy or resource utilization, etc. |

NOTE1:	Step 1b is optional and the handling is described in section 5.6.20. It is used when the SN-CU doesn’t apply RRC full configuration information.

## 7.3 S-NG-RAN NODE RELEASE

This section provides description of S-NG-RAN node release procedure. It can be initiated either by the MN or by the SN and is used to initiate the release of the UE context at the SN.

### 7.3.1 M-NG-RAN node initiated S-NG-RAN Node Release without keeping UE

The purpose of the M-NG-RAN node initiated S-NG-RAN Node Release without keeping UE is to release the UE context and relevant resources at both the M-NG-RAN node and the S-NG-RAN node.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | NR-DC stand alone, SN terminated split bearer option |
| Signalling radio bearer | SRB1 |
| DL data forwarding | Not used |
| UL data forwarding | Not used |

#### 7.3.1.1 Message flow for Xn

NOTE1:	If the M-NG-RAN node receives the UE Context Release Command message from the AMF in step 1, it shall initiate this procedure.

NOTE2:	The secondary RAT data volume reporting function is performed optionally in step 4

#### 7.3.1.2 Xn-C IE handling

#### 7.3.1.3 Message flow for Xn and F1

NOTE1:	If the M-NG-RAN node receives the UE Context Release Command message from the AMF in step 1, it shall initiate this procedure.

NOTE2:	Step 2a may apply to the case that the gNB-DU triggers the M-NG-RAN node initiated S-NG-RAN Node Release.

NOTE3:	The secondary RAT data volume reporting function is performed optionally in step 4

#### 7.3.1.4 F1-C IE handling

### 7.3.2 M-NG-RAN node initiated S-NG-RAN Node Release with keeping UE

The purpose of the M-NG-RAN node initiated S-NG-RAN Node Release with keeping UE is to release the UE context and relevant resources at the S-NG-RAN node, and to keep the UE context and relevant resources at the M-N-RAN node.

At the M-NG-RAN node, the UE context is kept and the M-NG-RAN node decides to either change bearer type and keep the relevant PDU session resources or to release them.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | NR-DC stand alone, SN terminated split bearer option |
| Signalling radio bearer | SRB1 |
| DL data forwarding | Used |
| UL data forwarding | Optionally used |

#### 7.3.2.1 Message flow for Xn

NOTE0:	Step 3 may take place before or after step 2

NOTE1:	Step 3, 6 and 7 shall be performed in case the M-NG-RAN node decides to change the bearer type.

NOTE2:	The secondary RAT data volume reporting function is performed optionally in Step 8

NOTE3:	Steps 6-8 may take place any time after step 3

NOTE4:	In step 9, when the M-NG-RAN node decides to change the bearer type, PDU Session Path Update procedure shall be executed, but when it decides to release the PDU sessions released from the S-NG-RAN node, PDU Session Path Release procedure shall be executed.

#### 7.3.2.2 Xn-C IE handling

#### 7.3.2.3 Message flow for Xn and F1

NOTE0:	Step 3 may take place before or after step 2

NOTE1:	Step 3, 6 and 7 shall be performed in case the MN-CU decides to change the bearer type

NOTE2:	The secondary RAT data volume reporting function is performed optionally in Step 8

NOTE3:	Steps 6-8 may take place any time after step 4b

NOTE4:	In step 9, when the MN-CU decides to change the bearer type, PDU Session Path Update procedure shall be executed, but when it decides to release the PDU sessions released from the S-NG-RAN node, PDU Session Path Release procedure shall be executed.

#### 7.3.2.4 F1-C IE handling

### 7.3.3 S-NG-RAN node initiated S-NG-RAN Node Release

The purpose of the S-NG-RAN node initiated S-NG-RAN Node Release procedure is to release the UE context and relevant resources at the S-NG-RAN node.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | NR-DC stand alone, SN terminated split bearer option |
| Signalling radio bearer | SRB1 |
| DL data forwarding | OPT1: Used OPT2: Not used |
| UL data forwarding | OPT1: Optionally used OPT2: Not used |

#### 7.3.3.1 Message flow for Xn

NOTE1:	Steps 5 and 6 shall be performed in case the M-NG-RAN node decides to change the bearer type.

NOTE2:	In step 5, if the PDCP termination point is changed, the S-NG-RAN node sends the SN Status Transfer message.

NOTE3:	When the S-NG-RAN node proposes data forwarding, step 6 is performed if the M-NG-RAN node accepts the proposed forwarding.

NOTE4:	UL data Forwarding is performed optionally in step 6

NOTE5:	The secondary RAT data volume reporting function is performed optionally in Step 7

NOTE6:	Steps 5-7 may take place any time after step 2

NOTE7:	When the M-NG-RAN node decides to change the bearer type, PDU Session Path Update procedure shall be executed, but when it decides to release the PDU sessions released from the S-NG-RAN node and the M-NG-RAN node, PDU Session Path Release procedure shall be executed.

NOTE8:	In case of the S-NG-RAN node initiated S-NG-RAN Node Release with keeping the UE in the MN side, the MN shall perform the RRC reconfiguration procedure to modify the RRC connection and execute the PDU Session Path Update or PDU Session Path Release procedure to 5GC (OPT1).

NOTE9:	In case of the S-NG-RAN node initiated S-NG-RAN Node Release without keeping the UE in the MN side, the MN shall perform the RRC connection release procedure to release the RRC connection and UE Context Release procedure towards AMF. Steps 10 and 11 may be executed in any order (OPT2).

#### 7.3.3.2 Xn-C IE handling

#### 7.3.3.3 Message flow for Xn and F1

NOTE1:	Step 1a may apply to the case that the SN-DU triggers the S-NG-RAN node initiated S-NG-RAN Node Release

NOTE2:	Steps 5 and 6 shall be performed in case the MN-CU decides to change the bearer type

NOTE3:	In step 5, if the PDCP termination point is changed, the S-NG-RAN node sends the SN Status Transfer message.

NOTE4:	When the S-NG-RAN node proposes data forwarding, step 6 is performed in case the M-NG-RAN node accepts the proposed forwarding.

NOTE5:	UL data Forwarding is performed optionally in step 6

NOTE6:	The secondary RAT data volume reporting function is performed optionally in Step 7

NOTE7:	Steps 5-7 may take place any time after step 2

NOTE8:	When the MN-CU decides to change the bearer type, PDU Session Path Update procedure shall be executed, but when it decides to release the PDU sessions released from the S-NG-RAN node and the M-NG-RAN node, PDU Session Path Release procedure shall be executed.

NOTE9:	In case of the S-NG-RAN node initiated S-NG-RAN Node Release with keeping the UE in the MN side, the MN-CU shall perform the UE Context Modification procedure to indicate the Bearer Type Change IE in the UE Context Modification Request message and execute the PDU Session Path Update procedure to 5GC, or it shall perform the UE Context Modification procedure to indicate the DRB to Be Released List IE in the UE Context Modification Request message and execute the PDU Session Path Release procedure to 5GC(OPT1).

NOTE10:	In case of the S-NG-RAN node initiated S-NG-RAN Node Release without keeping the UE in the MN side, the MN-CU shall perform the UE Context Release procedure to release whole UE context and UE Context Release procedure towards AMF. Steps 10 and 11 may be executed in any order (OPT2).

#### 7.3.3.4 F1-C IE handling

## 7.4 NG-RAN NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE

The purpose of the NG-RAN node Configuration Update procedure is to update application level configuration data needed for two NG-RAN nodes to interoperate correctly over the Xn-C interface.

NOTE:	This procedure is moved to Chapter 4.2.8

## 7.5 RRC TRANSFER

### 7.5.1 UE measurement transfer

The purpose of this procedure is to enable transfer of the NR RRC message container with the NR measurements information from the MN to the SN, when received from the UE.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | NR-DC stand alone, SN terminated split bearer option. |
| Signalling radio bearer | SRB1 |

#### 7.5.1.1 Message flow for Xn

#### 7.5.1.2 Xn-C IE handling

## 7.6 Master Node to gNB Change

### 7.6.1 Master Node to gNB Change

The purpose of the MN to gNB procedure is to transfer UE context data from a source MN to a target gNB.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | NR-DC stand alone, SN terminated split bearer option |
| Signalling radio bearer | SRB1 |
| PDCP duplication | Optionally used for DRBs; duplication in UL and DL, but limited to 1 RLC per gNB-DU. DC based PDCP duplication may be activated or deactivated e.g., due to changes in the radio quality of the S-NG-RAN node, changed need for redundancy or resource utilization, etc. |
| PDCP SN Length | 18bit PDCP SN |
| DL data forwarding | Used |
| UL data forwarding | Optionally Used |
| Bearer Type | Non-GBR bearer |
| QoS Characteristics | Non-dynamic 5QI |

#### 7.6.1.1 Message flow for Xn

NOTE 1:	If PDCP termination point is changed for bearers using RLC AM, the SN sends the SN Status Transfer, which the source MN sends then to the target gNB.

NOTE 2:	The order the SN sends the Secondary RAT Data Usage Report message and performs data forwarding with MN is not defined. The SN may send the report when the transmission of the related QoS flow is stopped.

#### 7.6.1.2 Xn-C IE handling

#### 7.6.1.3 Message flow for Xn and F1

#### 7.6.1.4 F1-C IE handling

## 7.7 Inter-Master Node handover

### 7.7.1 Inter-Master Node handover without Secondary Node change

The purpose of the Inter-Master Node handover without Secondary Node change is to transfer UE context data from a source MN to a target MN while the UE context at the SN is kept.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | NR-DC stand alone, SN terminated split bearer option |
| Signalling radio bearer | SRB1 (SRB3 Optionally Used) |
| PDCP duplication | Optionally used for DRBs; duplication in UL and DL, but limited to 1 RLC per gNB-DU. DC based PDCP duplication may be activated or deactivated e.g., due to changes in the radio quality of the S-NG-RAN node, changed need for redundancy or resource utilization, etc. |
| DL data forwarding | Used |
| UL data forwarding | Optionally Used |
| Bearer Type | Non-GBR bearer |
| QoS Characteristics | Non-dynamic 5QI |

#### 7.7.1.1 Message flow for Xn

NOTE 1:	The source MN may trigger the MN-initiated SN Modification procedure to retrieve the current SCG configuration and to allow provision of data forwarding related information before step 1.

NOTE 2:	The order the UE performs Random Access towards the MN (step 10) and performs the Random Access procedure towards the SN (step 12) is not defined.

NOTE 3:	The order the SN sends the Secondary RAT Data Usage Report message and performs data forwarding with MN is not defined. The SN may send the report when the transmission of the related QoS is stopped.

#### 7.7.1.2 Xn-C IE handling

#### 7.7.1.3 Message flow for Xn and F1

#### 7.7.1.4 F1-C IE handling

### 7.7.2 Inter-Master Node handover with Secondary Node change

The purpose of the Inter-Master Node handover with Secondary Node change is to transfer UE context data from a source MN to a target MN while the UE context at the SN is moved to another SN.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | NR-DC stand alone, SN terminated split bearer option |
| Signalling radio bearer | SRB1 |
| PDCP duplication | Optionally used for DRBs; duplication in UL and DL, but limited to 1 RLC per gNB-DU. DC based PDCP duplication may be activated or deactivated e.g., due to changes in the radio quality of the S-NG-RAN node, changed need for redundancy or resource utilization, etc. |
| DL data forwarding | Used |
| UL data forwarding | Optionally Used |
| Bearer Type | Non-GBR bearer |
| QoS Characteristics | Non-dynamic 5QI |

#### 7.7.2.1 Message flow for Xn

NOTE 1:	The source MN may trigger the MN-initiated SN Modification procedure to retrieve the current SCG configuration and to allow provision of data forwarding related information before step 1

NOTE 2:	The order the UE performs Random Access towards the MN (step 10) and performs the Random Access procedure towards the SN (step 12) is not defined

NOTE 3:	The order the SN sends the Secondary RAT Data Usage Report messages and performs data forwarding with MN is not defined. The SN may send the report when the transmission of the related QoS is stopped.

#### 7.7.2.2 Xn-C IE handling

#### 7.7.2.3 Message flow for Xn and F1

#### 7.7.2.4 F1-C IE handling

## 7.8 S-NG-RAN NODE CHANGE

### 7.8.1 SN Initiated SN Change

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | NR-DC stand alone, SN terminated split bearer option |
| Signalling radio bearer | SRB1 (SRB3 Optionally Used) |
| Bearer type | Non-GBR bearer |
| Split SRB | Not used |
| DL data forwarding | Used |
| UL data forwarding | Optionally used |
| PDCP duplication | Optionally used for DRBs; duplication in UL and DL, but limited to 1 RLC per gNB-DU. DC based PDCP duplication may be activated or deactivated e.g., due to changes in the radio quality of the S-NG-RAN node, changed need for redundancy or resource utilization, etc. |

#### 7.8.1.1 Message flow for Xn

> NOTE 1: 	The order the SN sends the Secondary RAT Data Usage Report message and performs data forwarding with MN/target SN is not defined. The SN may send the report when the transmission of the related QoS flow is stopped.

#### 7.8.1.2 Xn-C IE handling

#### 7.8.1.3 Message flow for Xn and F1

#### 7.8.1.4 F1-C IE handling

### 7.8.2 MN Initiated SN Change

The purpose of the MN initiated SN change is to transfer a UE context from the source SN to a target SN and to change the SCG configuration in UE from one SN to another.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | NR-DC stand alone, SN terminated split bearer option |
| Signalling radio bearer | SRB1 (SRB3 is Optionally Used) |
| PDCP duplication | Optionally used for DRBs; duplication in UL and DL, but limited to 1 RLC per gNB-DU. DC based PDCP duplication may be activated or deactivated e.g., due to changes in the radio quality of the S-NG-RAN node, changed need for redundancy or resource utilization, etc. |
| DL data forwarding | Used |
| UL data forwarding | Optionally Used |
| Bearer Type | Non-GBR bearer |
| QoS Characteristics | Non-dynamic 5QI |
| Split SRB | Not Used |
| PDU Session split at UPF | Not Supported |

#### 7.8.2.1 Message flow for Xn

NOTE 1:	The SCG Configuration Query (via a M-NG-RAN node initiated S-NG-RAN node Modification procedure) is optionally performed before this procedure.

NOTE 2:	If PDCP termination point is changed for bearers using RLC AM, the source SN sends the SN Status Transfer message, which the MN sends then to the target SN, if needed.

NOTE 3:	The order the SN sends the Secondary RAT Data Usage Report message and performs data forwarding with MN is not defined. The SN may send the report when the transmission of the related QoS flow is stopped.

#### 7.8.2.2 Xn-C IE handling

#### 7.8.2.3 Message flow for Xn and F1

#### 7.8.2.4 F1-C IE handling

## 7.9 ACTIVITY NOTIFICATION

### 7.9.1 SN initiated Activity Notification

The purpose of this procedure is to send a notification to M-NG-RAN node by S-NG-RAN node with user plane traffic activity report of already established QoS flows or PDU sessions or the UE.

Upon reception of the Activity Notification the M-NG-RAN node may take no action or may trigger the SN Modification Procedure to either release or suspend the lower layer MCG and SCG resources for the UE in RRC_INACTIVE state or reactivate the SN terminated bearers for the UE. The M-NG-RAN node may also decide to initiate the SN release procedure.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | NR-DC stand alone, SN terminated split bearer option |
| Bearer type | Non-GBR bearer |

##### 7.9.1.1 Message flow for Xn

##### 7.9.1.2 Xn-C IE handling

## 7.10 Intra Master Node handover

### 7.10.1 Intra Master Node, intra gNB-DU intra Cell handover with Secondary Node change

An MN initiated Intra Master Node, intra gNB-DU intra Cell handover, due to e.g. Security Key Change, with Secondary Node change is described below.

The purpose of the Intra Master Node, intra gNB-DU HO with SN change is to change a UE context within a gNB-DU of a Master Node and to change from the source SN to a target SN and to change the SCG configuration in a UE from one SN to another.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE Connectivity option | NR-DC stand alone, SN terminated split bearer option |
| Signalling radio bearer | SRB1 |
| DL data forwarding | Used |
| UL data forwarding | Optionally Used |
| Bearer Type | Non-GBR bearer |
| QoS Characteristics | Non-dynamic 5QI |
| Split SRB | Not Used |
| PDU Session split at UPF | Not Supported |

#### 7.10.1.1 Message flow for Xn

NOTE 1:	The SCG Configuration Query (via a M-NG-RAN node initiated S-NG-RAN node Modification procedure) is optionally performed before step 2 in this procedure.

NOTE 2:	If PDCP termination point is changed for bearers using RLC AM, the source SN sends the SN Status Transfer message, which the MN sends then to the target SN, if needed.

NOTE 3:	The order the SN sends the Secondary RAT Data Usage Report message and performs data forwarding with MN is not defined. The SN may send the report when the transmission of the related QoS flow is stopped.

NOTE 4:	The MN may handle the RRC Reconfiguration in steps 8, 9,10 and 11 and the S-Node Release in steps 5, 6 and 7 in parallel

NOTE 5:	The order the UE performs Random Access procedure towards the MN (step 9) and performs the Random Access procedure towards the SN (step 12) is not defined

#### 7.10.1.2 Xn-C IE handling

#### 7.10.1.3 Message flow for Xn and F1

#### 7.10.1.4 F1-C IE handling

### 7.10.2 Intra Master Node, intra gNB-DU inter Cell handover with Secondary Node change

An MN initiated Intra Master Node, intra gNB-DU inter Cell handover with Secondary Node change is described below.

The purpose of the Intra Master Node, intra gNB-DU Inter Cell HO with SN change is to change a UE context within a gNB-DU of a Master Node and to change from the source SN to a target SN and to change the SCG configuration in a UE from one SN to another.

The same parameter condition applies for this procedure as for the Intra Master Node, intra gNB-DU intra Cell handover with Secondary Node change.

#### 7.10.2.1 Message flow for Xn

NOTE 1:	The SCG Configuration Query (via a M-NG-RAN node initiated S-NG-RAN node Modification procedure) is optionally performed before this procedure.

NOTE 2:	If PDCP termination point is changed for bearers using RLC AM, the source SN sends the SN Status Transfer message, which the MN sends then to the target SN, if needed.

NOTE 3:	The order the SN sends the Secondary RAT Data Usage Report message and performs data forwarding with MN is not defined. The SN may send the report when the transmission of the related QoS flow is stopped.

NOTE 4:	The MN may handle the RRC Reconfiguration in steps 8, 9,10 and 11 and the S-Node Release in steps 5, 6 and 7 in parallel

NOTE 5:	The order the UE performs Random Access procedure towards the MN (step 9) and performs the Random Access procedure towards the SN (step 12) is not defined

#### 7.10.2.2 Xn-C IE handling

#### 7.10.2.3 Message flow for Xn and F1

#### 7.10.2.4 F1-C IE handling

### 7.10.3 Intra Master Node, inter gNB-DU handover with Secondary Node change

An MN initiated Intra Master Node handover with Secondary Node change, changing the gNB-DU is described below.

The purpose of the Intra Master Node, inter gNB-DU HO with SN change is to change a UE context between gNB-DU’s of a Master Node and to change from the source SN to a target SN and to change the SCG configuration in a UE from one SN to another.

The same parameter condition applies for this procedure as for the Intra Master Node, intra gNB-DU intra Cell handover with Secondary Node change.

#### 7.10.3.1 Message flow for Xn

The message flow is identical to the flow in section 7.10.2.1.

#### 7.10.3.2 Xn-C IE handling

#### 7.10.3.3 Message flow for Xn and F1

#### 7.10.3.4 F1-C IE handling

# 8 Integrated Access and Backhaul (IAB) Procedures

## 8.1 IAB procedures in Standalone mode

In this version of the profile, the following procedures based on [7] are defined for successful integration of IAB into the network:

- IAB Donor DU Setup
- IAB-MT Setup
- BH RLC Channel Setup
- Routing Update
- IAB -DU Setup
The access UEs gaining services via cells supported by an IAB-Node may be served in both NSA and SA modes as described in section 1.1.

### 8.1.1 IAB Donor DU Setup

This section describes IAB Donor DU Setup. The purpose of this procedure is to exchange application-level data needed for IAB Donor DU and IAB Donor CU to interoperate over the F1 interface. This procedure also allocates a BAP address to the IAB Donor DU during F1 Setup/Cell activation procedures by the IAB Donor CU.

Note:	As captured in section 8.2.3 of [3], it is implementation specific how an O-CU would determine if an O-DU is an IAB Donor DU.

#### 8.1.1.1 IAB Donor DU Setup message flow

Please refer to chapters 4.2.3, 4.2.4 and 4.2.5.

For the purposes of the IAB Donor DU setup procedural flow, the gNB-DU and gNB-CU identified in sections 4.2.3, 4.2.4 and 4.2.5 shall be considered an IAB Donor DU and IAB Donor CU respectively.

#### 8.1.1.2 F1-C IE handling

Please refer to sections 4.2.3.1.2, 4.2.4.1.2 and 4.2.5.1.2.

### 8.1.2 IAB Node1 integration

This section describes how IAB Node1 is integrated into the IAB Network. IAB Node1 shall be interpreted as any 1st hop IAB Node downstream of a Donor DU, for example, as shown in Figure 6.1.4-1 of [7].

#### 8.1.2.1 IAB-MT Setup and BH RLC channel Setup

IAB-MT of the new IAB-Node connects to the network in the same way as a 5G UE, by performing RRC connection setup procedure with IAB Donor CU and authentication with the 5G core network.

The IAB-Node can select the parent node for access based on an over-the-air indication from potential parent node IAB-DU. The potential parent node indicates IAB support capability in system information (transmitted in SIB1).

##### 8.1.2.1.1 IAB-MT and BH RLC Channel Setup message flow for F1

The following parameter conditions are applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| UE connectivity option used by IAB-MT | Option 2 (NR SA) |
| IAB node indication | IE iab-NodeIndication in RRCSetupComplete |
| PDU session setup requested | No |

Figure 8.1.2.1.1-1 shows the flow for IAB-MT setup in SA mode.

##### 8.1.2.1.2 F1-C IE handling

#### 8.1.2.2 Routing Update

In this phase, IAB-MT requests TNL addresses for the collocated IAB-DU and secondly the BAP sublayer of the IAB Donor DU is updated with configuration to support routing between the new IAB-node and the IAB Donor DU.

As per section 8.12.1 of [7], TNL address request by IAB-MT can be support at any time after successful RRC Connection establishment. In that case, RRCReconfiguration in Step 5 of Figure 8.1.2.2.1-1 can be combined into the RRCReconfiguration in Step 18 of Figure 8.1.2.1.1-1.

The normative procedures in section 8.12.1 of [7] discusses TNL Address request as part of Phase 2-2: “Routing Update”.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| IAB-MT connectivity option | Option 2 (NR SA) |

##### 8.1.2.2.1 TNL Address Request message flow for F1

Figure 8.1.2.2.1-1 shows the flow whereby the IAB-MT requests one or more TNL Addresses for the collocated IAB-DU.

##### 8.1.2.2.2 F1-C IE handling

##### 8.1.2.2.3 Routing Update message flow for F1

Figure 8.1.2.2.3-1 shows the flow for configuring BAP Routing information at a Donor DU. In a 1-hop IAB network, this procedure is only applied at the Donor DU.

##### 8.1.2.2.4 F1-C IE handling

#### 8.1.2.3 IAB-DU Setup

This section describes the setup of an IAB-DU. The purpose of this procedure is to exchange application-level data needed for IAB-DU and IAB Donor CU to interoperate over the F1 interface.

The following parameter condition is applied for this procedure.

| Category | Condition |
| --- | --- |
| SUL Information | Not used |

##### 8.1.2.3.1 IAB-DU message flow for F1

Please refer to chapters 4.2.3, 4.2.4 and 4.2.5.

For the purposes of the IAB-DU setup procedural flow, the gNB-DU and gNB-CU identified in sections 4.2.3, 4.2.4 and 4.2.5 shall be considered an IAB-DU and Donor CU respectively.

##### 8.1.2.3.2 F1-C IE handling

Please refer to sections 4.2.3.1.2, 4.2.4.1.2 and 4.2.5.1.2.

#### 8.1.2.4 gNB-DU Resource Configuration

This section describes the resource configuration procedure initiated by the Donor CU in order to configure resource usage at the Donor DU and at the IAB-DU.

##### 8.1.2.4.1 gNB-DU Resource configuration message flow for F1

Figure 8.1.2.4.1-1 shows the message flow whereby the Donor CU provides resource configuration to the Donor DU and at the IAB-DU.

##### 8.1.2.4.2 F1-C IE handling

#### 8.1.2.5 Additional BH RLC Setup and Routing update

##### 8.1.2.5.1 UE Accessing in SA mode

This section describes the user-plane traffic mapping to BH RLC channel configuration procedure initiated by the Donor CU for the integration of SA Access UEs. In this procedure, additional BH RLC channels are added, in addition to default BH RLC channels, if they have not been added already in section 8.1.2.1.

Figure 8.1.2.5.1-1 shows the message flow for additional BH RLC channels and routing update configuration at the Donor DU and the configuration of UL UP traffic mapping to BH RLC channel configuration at IAB Node.

For messages in steps 1 to 8 and in step 15 detailed in Figure 8.1.2.5.1-1, please refer to F1-C IE handling in section 6.1.1.3 with corresponding message names and message number.

For the remaining messages in steps 9 to 14 detailed in Figure 8.1.2.5.1-1, please refer to F1-C IE handling below.

##### 8.1.2.5.2 UE accessing in EN-DC mode

This section describes the user-plane traffic mapping to BH RLC channel configuration procedure initiated by the Donor CU for the integration of EN-DC Access UEs. Figure 8.1.2.5.2-1 shows the message flow whereby the Donor CU providing additional BH RLC channels and routing update configuration for Donor DU and UL UP traffic mapping to BH RLC channel configuration for IAB DU.

For messages in steps 9 to 15 detailed in Figure 8.1.2.5.2-1, please refer to F1-C IE handling in section 8.1.2.5.1.1.

## A.1 Multiple PLMN-IDs used in a RAN

### A.1.1 Multiple PLMN-IDs for non-UE associated procedures

#### A.1.1.1 X2-C and F1-C for EN-DC

In case multiple PLMN IDs are configured in a RAN, the following IE is included in the message for the effected use cases in section 4.1.

- -	Broadcast PLMNs IE in Served E-UTRA Cell Information IE or Served PLMNs IE and/or Additional PLMNs IE in Served NR Cell Information IE are included in EN-DC X2 SETUP REQUEST message for X2.
- -	Broadcast PLMNs IE in Served E-UTRA Cell Information IE or Served PLMNs IE and/or Additional PLMNs IE in Served NR Cell Information IE are included in EN-DC X2 SETUP RESPONSE message for X2.
- -	Broadcast PLMNs IE in Served E-UTRA Cell Information IE or Served PLMNs IE and/or Additional PLMNs IE in Served NR Cell Information IE are included in EN-DC CONFIGURATION UPDATE message for X2.
- -	Served PLMNs IE and/or Additional PLMNs IE in Served NR Cell Information IE are included in EN-DC CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE message for X2.
- -	Served PLMNs IE and/or Extended Served PLMNs List IE are included in F1 SETUP REQUEST message for F1.
- -	Served PLMNs IE and/or Extended Served PLMNs List IE are included in GNB-DU CONFIGURATION UPDATE message for F1.

#### A.1.1.2 Xn-C and F1-C for NR Stand-Alone

In case multiple PLMN IDs are configured in a RAN, the following IE is included in the message for the effected use cases in section 4.2.

- -	Broadcast PLMNs IE in Served Cell Information NR IE is included in XN SETUP REQUEST message for Xn.
- -	Broadcast PLMNs IE in Served Cell Information NR IE is included in XN SETUP RESPONSE message for Xn.
- -	Broadcast PLMNs IE in Served Cell Information NR IE is included in NG-RAN NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE message for Xn.
- -	Broadcast PLMNs IE in Served Cell Information NR IE is included in NG-RAN NODE CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE message for Xn.
- -	Served PLMNs IE and/or Extended Served PLMNs List IE are included in F1 SETUP REQUEST message for F1.
- -	Served PLMNs IE and/or Extended Served PLMNs List IE are included in GNB-DU CONFIGURATION UPDATE message for F1.

### A.1.2 Multiple PLMN-IDs for UE associated procedures

#### A.1.2.1 Multiple PLMN-IDs for EN-DC

In case multiple PLMN IDs are configured in a RAN, the following IE is included in the message for the effected use cases in section 5.

- -	Serving PLMN IE is included in UE CONTEXT SETUP REQUEST message for F1.
- -	Selected PLMN IE is included in SGNB ADDITION REQUEST message for X2.
- -	Serving PLMN IE for Handover Restriction List IE is included in HANDOVER REQUEST message for X2.
- -	Selected PLMN IE is included in SGNB MODIFICATION REQUEST message for X2.
- Note:	The inclusion of the Handover Restriction List IE depends on implementation and is received from AMF.
The applicability of the Selected PLMN IE in the SGNB MODIFICATION REQUEST message and the Serving PLMN IE in the UE CONTEXT SETUP REQUEST message is shown as an example for the procedure ‘Bearer type change from SN terminated MCG bearer to SN terminated split bearer (MN initiated)’, as specified for X2-C IE handling and F1-C IE handling in the sections 5.6.13.2 and 5.6.13.4.

#### A.1.2.2 Multiple PLMN-IDs for NR

In case multiple PLMN IDs are configured in a RAN, the following IE is included in the message for the effected use cases in section 6.

- -	Serving PLMN IE is included in UE CONTEXT SETUP REQUEST message for F1.
- -	Serving PLMN IE for Mobility Restriction List IE is included in HANDOVER REQUEST message for Xn.
- -	Serving PLMN IE for Mobility Restriction List IE is included in RETRIEVE UE CONTEXT RESPONSE for Xn.
- Note:	The inclusion of the Mobility Restriction List IE depends on implementation and is received from AMF.
The applicability of the Serving PLMN IE in the UE CONTEXT SETUP REQUEST message is shown as an example for the procedure ‘UE context creation (service request)’, as specified for F1-C IE handling in section 6.1.1.3.

#### A.1.2.3 Multiple PLMN-IDs for NR-DC

In case multiple PLMN IDs are configured in a RAN, the following IE is included in the message for the effected use cases in section 7.

- -	Serving PLMN IE is included in UE CONTEXT SETUP REQUEST message for F1.
- -	Selected PLMN IE is included in S-NODE ADDITION REQUEST message for Xn.
- -	Serving PLMN IE for Mobility Restriction List IE is included in HANDOVER REQUEST message for Xn.
- Note:	The inclusion of the Mobility Restriction List IE depends on implementation and is received from AMF.
The applicability of the Selected PLMN IE in the S-NODE ADDITION REQUEST message and the Serving PLMN IE in UE CONTEXT SETUP REQUEST message is shown as an example for the procedure ‘S-NG-RAN Node Addition’, as specified for Xn-C IE handling and F1-C IE handling in the sections 7.1.1.2 and 7.1.1.4.

## A.2 Location Information Reporting at SN

### A.2.1 X2-C for EN-DC

In case of location information reporting at SgNB, the following IE is included in the message for the effected use cases in section 5.1, 5.3, 5.4 and 5.6.

- -	Location Information at SgNB reporting IE is included in SGNB ADDITION REQUEST message.
- -	Location Information at SgNB IE is included in SGNB ADDITION REQUEST ACKNOWLEDGE message.
- -	Location Information at SgNB IE is included in SGNB MODIFICATION REQUIRED message.

### A.2.2 Xn-C for NR-DC

In case of location information reporting at S-Node, the following IE is included in the message for the effected use cases in section 7.1, 7.2, 7.7 and 7.8.

- -	Location Information at S-NODE reporting IE is included in S-NODE ADDITION REQUEST message.
- -	Location Information at S-NODE IE is included in S-NODE ADDITION REQUEST ACKNOWLEDGE message.
- -	Location Information at S-NODE IE is included in S-NODE MODIFICATION REQUIRED message.

## A.3 Measurement Gap Coordination

### A.3.1 X2-C for EN-DC

In case the SN required per UE/FR1 gap measurement is ongoing, the following IE is included in the message for the affected use cases in section 5.6.

- -	The measConfigSN IE in CG-Config is included in the following messages:
- SGNB MODIFICATION REQUIRED
- SGNB MODIFICATION REQUEST ACKNOWLEDGE
For ongoing gap measurements as an example, the following Use Case applies the measConfigSN IE in the SGNB MODIFICATION REQUIRED message:

- -	5.6.9 UL Configuration Update Procedure (SN initiated)

### A.3.2 Xn-C for NR-DC

In case the SN required per UE/FR1/FR2 gap measurement is ongoing, the following IE is included in the message for the affected use cases in section 7.2.

- -	The measConfigSN IE in the CG-Config is included in the following messages:
- S-NODE MODIFICATION REQUIRED
- S-NODE MODIFICATION REQUEST ACKNOWLEDGE
For ongoing gap measurements as an example, the following Use Case applies the measConfigSN IE in the S-NODE MODIFICATION REQUEST ACKNOWLEDGE message:

- -	7.2.1.1 M-NG-RAN node initiated SN modification: PDU Session Addition


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG5.TS.D2GAP.0-R004-v02.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG5.TS.D2GAP.0-R004-v02.00"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms

For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in [i.1] and the following apply:

D2 interface: The inter O-DU interface to enable multi-vendor carrier aggregation in NR is named as D2 according to WG1 ATG definitions.

PCell O-DU:  O-DU, where the PCell is configured for a UE to support inter O-DU carrier aggregation.

SCell O-DU:  O-DU, where only SCell(s) are configured for a UE to support inter O-DU carrier aggregation.

## 3.2 Symbols

## 3.3 Abbreviations

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations [given in [i.1]] and the following apply:

- **D2-c**: D2 Control plane interface
- **D2CP**: D2 Control Protocol
- **D2-u**: D2 User Plane interface
- **D2UP**: D2 User Plane Protocol
- **DL**: Downlink
- **HARQ**: Hybrid Automatic Repeat Request
- **MAC**: Medium Access Control
- **MNO**: Mobile Network Operator
- **O-CU-CP**: O-RAN Central Unit – Control Plane
- **O-CU-UP**: O-RAN Central Unit – User Plane
- **O-DU**: O-RAN Distributed Unit
- **O-RU**: O-RAN Radio Unit
- **PDCCH**: Physical downlink control channel
- **PUCCH**: Physical uplink control channel
- **PUSCH**: Physical uplink shared channel
- **RLC**: Radio Link Control
- **SCTP**: Stream Control Transmission Protocol
- **SMO**: Service Management and Orchestration
- **TB**: Transport Block
- **UE**: User Equipment

# 4 General aspects

## 4.1 D2 interface general principles

The general principles for the specification of the D2 interface are as follows:

- the D2 interface is open;
- the D2 interface supports the exchange of signalling information between the endpoints. In addition, the interface supports data transmission to the respective endpoints;
- the D2 is a point-to-point interface between the endpoints on two O-DUs. A point-to-point logical interface should be feasible even in the absence of a physical direct connection between the two O-DUs.
- the D2 interface supports control plane(D2-c)  and user plane (D2-u) separation;
- the D2 interface enables exchange of UE associated information and non-UE associated information;
- the D2 interface is designed in a future proof way to fulfil new requirements, and services;
- the D2 interface supports NR carrier aggregation of carriers configured in different O-DU nodes. The schedulers in the O-DUs operate independently of each other.

## 4.2 D2 interface within O-RAN architecture

O-DUs can be interconnected by the D2 interface. Figure 4.2-1 shows the D2 interface in the O-RAN WG1.OAD Figure 5.1-2 [1]. In the present document, O-DUs interconnected by the D2 interface are connected to a single O-CU-CP as shown in Figure 4.2-1.

NOTE:	O-DUs interconnected by the D2 interface can be connected to different O-CU-UP. Figure 4.2-1 shows the connection between O-DUs connected to a single O-CU-CP.

The D2 interface is a logical interface connecting two O-DUs for supporting inter O-DU carrier aggregation. A pair of O-DUs can be connected with each other by the D2 interface.

F1 (F1-c, F1-u) and E1 are logical 3GPP interfaces, whose protocols, termination points and cardinalities are specified in 3GPP TS 38.401 [6]. Open FH is O-RAN defined interface as specified in O-RAN WG4.CUS [3].

Using D2 interface, the O-DUs are able to exchange user data and control information to support inter O-DU carrier aggregation. Configuration for establishment and functioning of D2 interface (for example  peer O-DU IP address etc) is provided to O-DU by SMO over O1 interface, or by other means such as local node configuration.

## 4.3 Functional split for PCell O-DU and SCell O-DU

The functional split in the PCell and SCell O-DU for supporting inter O-DU DL CA is as follows:

- The user data and control information message exchange take place at MAC level.
- Single RLC per UE resides in the PCell O-DU as shown in Figure 4.3-1.
- For supporting DL CA using D2 interface PUCCH allocation and reception of PUCCH data from UE is performed by the PCell O-DU for both PCell and SCells. The PCell O-DU shares the received information with the SCell O-DU as shown in Figure 4.3-1

## 4.4 D2 interface specification objectives

The D2 interface specifications facilitate the following:

- inter connection between two O-DUs.
- inter O-DU carrier aggregation by exchanging user and control information between O-DUs.

## 4.5 D2 interface capabilities

The D2 interface supports:

- procedures to establish, maintain and release D2 connection between two O-DUs.
- procedures to establish, maintain and release D2 context for storing the UE information across O-DUs for supporting inter O-DU CA.
- procedures to exchange user data and control data across O-DUs to support the inter O-DU CA.

# 5 Functions of the D2 interface

## 5.1  General

The D2 interface provides connectivity between O-DUs to facilitate inter O-DU carrier aggregation. Its functionality is divided into two parts: control plane (D2-c) and user plane(D2-u). The following clauses describe the functions supported over D2-c and D2-u.

## 5.2 D2-c function

### 5.2.1 Interface management function

The D2 setup function allows for the initial setup of a D2 connection between two O-DUs, including exchange of the cell-level data. Configuration of the D2 interface endpoints can be managed by the SMO to O-DU via the O1 interface. D2 configuration can also be provided through node specific O&M systems. The D2 setup can be initiated by any O-DU that successfully completes the cell setup procedure. During this process, both the originating and destined O-DUs share cell capabilities, for example sub-carrier spacing, duplexing methods, and TDD DL-UL configurations etc.

Once the D2 connection is established, any changes for the cells used for inter O-DU CA, such as a cell being locked, cell unlocked, overloaded or changes to cell configuration (including cell addition and removal) are communicated to its peer O-DU using the D2 configuration update function. If cell status is changed to locked or disabled, context for all the UEs configured for inter O-DU CA in that SCell is released.

D2 release function is used to remove the D2 connection between the two O-DUs, so that all the related resources between the two O-DUs are cleared.

The error indication function is used by the O-DU to indicate to the peer O-DU that an error has occurred. For example, if parsing of D2 Configuration Update Acknowledge or D2 Setup Response fails, O-DU can inform the peer O-DU about the failure using error indication function.

Figure 5.2.1-1 shows the interface management functions.

### 5.2.2 UE management function

The UE management function supports the establishment and modification of D2 context for SCells for a UE. These functions include establishment, modification and release of the SCells in PCell and SCell O-DUs. The procedures include addition, deletion or modification of a SCell for a UE in the O-DUs.

The establishment of UE addition is initiated by the PCell O-DU. It is accepted or rejected by the SCell O-DU based on the admission control criteria for example resource availability, loading etc. Upon reception of successful addition response for the UE from the SCell O-DU, the PCell O-DU sends UE Context Setup/Modification response to O-CU-CP. RRC Reconfiguration procedure is triggered towards UE for SCell addition. Once RRC Reconfiguration Complete is received from UE, the PCell O-DU sends the UE Reconfiguration Completion message to the SCell O-DU.

The modification of SCell configuration for a UE is initiated by the	 PCell O-DU. If an SCell for a UE is already configured in the SCell O-DU, PCell O-DU can use modification function to add another SCell. The modification function is also used by the PCell O-DU to update any of the UE configuration parameters for example change of security key, UL configuration, DRX cycle, change of measurement gap, PDU session add/rel/mod (QoS flow add/rel, 5QI Change), DRB etc in the SCell O-DU. If multiple SCells are configured in an SCell O-DU for a UE, this function can also be used to release some of the SCells.

PCell O-DU uses UE release function to clear the UE context in the SCell O-DU. This function can be used if UE is released in the PCell O-DU or all the SCells in an SCell O-DU are deleted for a UE. Upon successful completion, the UE information for the SCell is cleared in the SCell O-DU.

SCell O-DU uses the modification required function to request the release of SCell(s) for a UE. This can be triggered due to any scenario taking place in SCell O-DU for example overloading, or cell lock or cell down. The PCell O-DU removes the corresponding SCell reference for the UE for which the message is received. The PCell O-DU responds back with confirm message after successful deletion of SCells. The SCell O-DU then clears the SCell(s) for the UE.

Figure 5.2.2-1 captures the UE management functions.

## 5.3 D2-u function

### 5.3.1 D2-u general principles

The following principles apply to D2-u for inter O-DU DL carrier aggregation.

- The PCell O-DU requests the SCell O-DU to schedule new user data and/or retransmissions due to HARQ feedback for the UE indicating a range of time slots, where data can be scheduled by the SCell O-DU. The range is configurable.
- Data retransmission due to HARQ feedback is executed in the same node where the first transmission was executed. The SCell O-DU stores the TB until retransmission is successful or the HARQ process is cleared by the PCell O-DU.
- CSI-RS transmission for a UE that is added by D2 interface is triggered when an SCell is added for the UE.

### 5.3.2 Transfer of user data

Transfer of user data comprises of two functions, the data transfer function and the UCI transfer function.

The data transfer function allows the transfer of user data between O-DUs to support inter O-DU carrier aggregation. For DL CA, PCell O-DU sends the user data to SCell O-DU.

The data transfer function consists of procedures that allow the exchange of user data, scheduling related information (range of slots) and associated control information between PCell O-DU and SCell O-DU for supporting inter O-DU CA.

The PCell O-DU may initiate a procedure to request the SCell O-DU to schedule a user data transmission or to schedule a HARQ retransmission for a particular UE. With each request the PCell O-DU also indicates the range of slots which can be used by the SCell O-DU to schedule new user data or HARQ retransmission. The PCell O-DU may also provide the CSI information to the SCell O-DU. The PCell O-DU may send one or more scheduling requests. The SCell O-DU may reply with the scheduled user data size and/or scheduled HARQ retransmission, as well as the air interface timing details (i.e. slot number). The SCell O-DU may send one or more replies to the PCell O-DU.  Requests from the PCell O-DU and replies from the SCell O-DU are sent asynchronously.

The PCell O-DU may send the user data matching the scheduled user data size together with the needed PUCCH information to the SCell O-DU.

The UCI transfer function enables the PCell O-DU to share CSI reports and/or HARQ feedback to the SCell O-DU. The PCell O-DU may also send a TB clear-flag to indicate that no more re-transmission is needed for a particular HARQ process. Upon reception of the TB clear-flag the SCell O-DU may delete the TB buffer and reuse the HARQ process ID for a new user data transmission.

Figure 5.3.2-1 captures the flow control of user data exchange over D2 connection.

# 6 Procedures of the D2 interface

## 6.1 Control plane procedures

Table 6.1-1 below captures all the procedures defined for D2-c interface.

| Procedure | Initiating Message | Successful Outcome | Unsuccessful Outcome |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Procedure | Initiating Message | Response Message | Failure Message |
| D2 Setup | D2 SETUP REQUEST | D2 SETUP RESPONSE | D2 SETUP FAILURE |
| D2 Configuration Update | D2 CONFIGURATION UPDATE | D2 CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE | D2 CONFIGURATION UPDATE FAILURE |
| D2 Release | D2 RELEASE REQUEST | D2 RELEASE RESPONSE |  |
| Error Indication | D2 ERROR INDICATION |  |  |
| UE Addition | UE ADDITION REQUEST | UE ADDITION RESPONSE | UE ADDITION FAILURE |
| UE Modification Update | UE MODIFICATION REQUEST | UE MODIFICATION RESPONSE | UE MODIFICATION FAILURE |
| UE Reconfiguration Complete | UE RECONFIGURATION COMPLETE |  |  |
| UE Modification Update Required | UE MODIFICATION REQUIRED (Cause) | UE MODIFICATION UPDATE CONFIRM (status) |  |
| UE Release | UE DELETION REQUEST | UE DELETION RESPONSE |  |

### 6.1.1  Interface management procedures

The D2 Interface management procedures are listed below:

- D2 Setup procedure
- D2 Configuration Update procedure
- Error Indication
- D2 Release procedure

### 6.1.2  UE management procedures

The D2 UE management procedures are listed below:

- UE Addition procedure
- UE Modification Update procedure
- UE Modification Update Required procedure
- UE Reconfiguration Complete
- UE Release procedure

## 6.2 User plane procedures

### 6.2.1  Downlink data transfer

Transfer of user data and associated scheduling control information related messages are listed below:

- DL Schedule Request
- DL Data Required
- DL Data Transfer
- PUCCH Resource Transfer
- UCI Transfer

# 7 D2 application protocol structure

## 7.1 D2 control plane protocol (D2-c)

Figure 7.1-1 shows the protocol structure of D2-c. The application layer signalling protocol is referred to as D2CP

The Transport Network Layer is based on IP transport, comprising the SCTP on top of IP. SCTP (IETF RFC 4960 [9] ) shall be supported as the transport layer of D2-c control bearer (D2CP). SCTP refers to the Stream Control Transmission Protocol developed by the Sigtran working group of the IETF for the purpose of transporting various signalling protocols over IP network. There shall be only one SCTP association established between two O-DUs. No SCTP Destination Port number value was assigned by IANA for the D2CP protocol and so networks shall rely on O-DU configuration to select a suitable port number.

The application layer signalling protocol is referred to as D2CP (D2 Control Protocol). The Payload Protocol Identifier assigned by IANA to be used by SCTP for the application layer protocol D2CP is 71. This value is to be used for all deployment configurations described in the present document. The byte order of the Payload Protocol Identifier shall be big-endian. The O-DUs shall support a configuration with a single SCTP association per O-DU pair.

The support of any suitable Data Link Layer protocol, e.g. PPP, Ethernet, etc., shall not be prevented.

The O-DUs shall support IPv6 (IETF RFC 8200 [10]) and/or IPv4 (IETF RFC 791 [11]). The IP layer of D2-c only supports point-to-point transmission for delivering D2CP message.

Between two O-DUs connected by D2 interface:

- A single pair of stream identifiers shall be reserved over the SCTP association for the sole use of D2CP elementary procedures for D2 interface management.
- At least one pair of stream identifiers shall be reserved for the sole use of D2CP elementary procedures are utilized for D2 UE management signalling. However, a few pairs (i.e. more than one) should be reserved.
- For a single UE-associated signalling, the O-DU shall use one SCTP association and one SCTP stream, and the association/stream should not be changed during the communication of the UE-associated signalling.

## 7.2 D2 user plane protocol (D2-u)

Figure 7.2-1 shows the protocol stack for D2-u.

The D2UP (D2 user plane protocol) messages are transported by UDP over IP. Between a pair of O-DU nodes, one or more UDP ports may be used for D2-u.

# 8 D2 interface transport requirements

The D2 interface is specified to accommodate the latency class High75, High100 & High200 as described in O-RAN WG9.XTRP [2], section 7.2. D2 interface can also function when using High500 latency but it may have impact on performance.

# 9 D2 interface management and configuration aspects

The configuration for establishing and functioning of D2 interface is provided by SMO via O1 interface or manualy or via node specific OAM to O-DUs. Parameters such as IP addresses of peer O-DUs, support of CA (UL, DL, both or None) for each cell in O-DU are needed for functioning of D2 interface.

NOTE:	Detailed definition of configuration parameters will be in O1 specification.

# 10 D2 interface security requirements

Authentication and authorization of O-DUs that exchange control or data information over D2 interface shall be supported. Existing security algorithm for example IPSec can be used to protect the D2 interface. User data exchanged over D2 interface is protected by PDCP (Packet Data Convergence Protocol)[8].

NOTE:	Security requirement for protecting the D2 interface will be defined in security specifications.

## A.1 General deployment considerations

## A.2 Deployment model A: Co-located deployments

This model considers the deployment scenarios where relevant O-RAN NFs for carrier aggregation are co-located at a cell site. O-RAN NFs may be supporting the same or different band/duplexing capability.

In this deployment scenario, depicted in Figure A.2-1and Figure A.2-2, the MNO may deploy a new O-RU and O-DU to add a new frequency band to the existing infrastructure. The O-DUs will be connected to the single O-CU-CP. The O-DUs can be connected to the multiple O-CU-UPs as shown in Figure A.2-2. O-DUs are connected by D2 interface to support the inter O-DU carrier aggregation.

## A.3 Deployment model B: Non-co-located deployments

This model considers the deployment scenarios where aggregated frequencies are served by equipment that are not co-located at a cell site. O-CU-CP/O-CU-UP might be residing at a centralized location while O-DUs may be located at cell site or at a centralized location.

In this deployment scenario, depicted in Figure A.3-1 and Figure A.3-2, the MNO may deploy a new O-RU and O-DU to add a new frequency band, that is not co-located with other O-RUs and O-DUs serving the same geographic area. The O-DUs will be connected to the single O-CU-CP. The O-DUs can be connected to the multiple O-CU-UPs as shown in Figure A.3-2. O-DUs are connected by D2 interface to support the inter O-DU carrier aggregation.

## B.1 O-CU-CP/O-CU-UP

- O-CU-CP will be able to add, delete or modify the SCells from peer O-DUs, connected by D2 interface and to same O-CU-CP, in UE Context Request/Modification procedures.
- No impact on O-CU-UP is expected.

## B.2  Synchronization Requirements

Existing synchronization requirement specified in O-RAN WG9.XTRP  [4] section 6.3.3 is sufficient to meet the carrier aggregation requirement as mentioned in 3GPP 38.133 [7].


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG5.TS.IOT.0-R004-v14.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG5.TS.IOT.0-R004-v14.00"
---


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG5.Transport.0-v01.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG5.Transport.0-v01.00"
---

# 3 Definitions and abbreviations

## 3.1 Definitions

The key words "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in IETF RFC 2119 [25]. All key words must be in upper case, bold text.

Items that are REQUIRED (contain the words SHALL or SHALL NOT) will be labeled as [Rx] for required. Items that are RECOMMENDED (contain the words SHOULD or SHOULD NOT) will be labeled as [Dx] for desirable. Items that are OPTIONAL (contain the words MAY or OPTIONAL) will be labeled as [Ox] for optional.

Items, if supported, are not meant to be active at all times, but should be available for use. Their state (active or not active) should be based on configuration.

In this document the phrase ‘equipment’ generally refers to entities implementing F1- and/or X2- interfaces.

## 3.2 Abbreviations

Abbreviations defined in this document take precedence over the definition of 3GPP

ARP		Address Resolution Protocol

CBS		committed burst size

CIR		committed information rate

DHCP		Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol

DSCP		Differentiated Services Codepoint

ICMP		Internet Control Message Protocol

MAC		Media Access Control

OAM		Operation, Administration and Maintenance

O-CU		O-RAN Central Unit

O-DU		O-RAN Distributed Unit

PHB		Per-hop behaviour

QoS		Quality of Service

TBD		To Be Defined

FFS		For Further Study

# 4 Interface classification

## 4.1 General

This chapter provides for a classification of Interface types, grouping different sets of mandatory features according to them into interface classes.

## 4.2 Class 1: Basic network interoperability

This class provides mandatory support for basic network interoperability.

### 4.2.1 Network Layer Interface (layer 3)

This section complies with and reuses the relevant parts of 3GPP TS 38.472 [1], TS 38.474 [23], TS 36.424 [22] and TS 36.422 [21].

#### 4.2.1 1 IP version 4

##### 4.2.1.1.1 General

- IP version 4 SHALL be supported according to RFC791 [27] and RFC1918 [28].
Note: Address ranges specified in [28] are commonly used in operator networks.

- O-RAN equipment SHALL NOT send IPv4 packets with any IPv4 header option field.  If the IPv4 header option field is detected in the received packet, the contents of this option field SHALL be ignored at the receiving equipment.
- IP addresses SHALL be supported on
- Logical interfaces: network interfaces that do not have a physical representation, e.g. Ethernet VLAN terminations
- Physical interfaces: Network interfaces that have a physical representation, e.g. a Network Interface Controller (a.k.a. plain Ethernet interfaces)
- Virtual IP interfaces (loopback interfaces). These IP addresses are not attached to any network interface
These may be located in the same or in different subnets.

- For a particular Network Interface Controller IP addresses SHALL be supported on either the physical or the logical interface(s).
- The resolution of Ethernet MAC addresses is done via ARP according to [7].

##### 4.2.1.1.2 ICMP for IPv4

- The equipment SHALL support the function of sending and receiving ICMP according to [8]. Clause 4.2.4.1.1.2 in [24] shall generally be adhered to, with the differences as defined in [R7]:
- The following message types SHALL be supported:
destination unreachable (‘Permitted’ in [24])

time exceeded with Code field=1 (‘Optional’ in [24])

echo request/reply (echo request ‘Permitted’ and echo reply ‘Optional’ in [24])

- The following message types SHALL NOT be supported, i.e. shall never be sent, and shall be discarded (existence of packet may be logged) when received:
Source quench (not listed in [24])

Information request/reply (not listed in [24])

- The support of all other types of ICMP messages is optional.
- Depending on the type of the received ICMP message the equipment SHALL terminate the ICMP messages, create and send the correct responses, or drop it. Incoming fragmented ICMP messages will be reassembled as necessary.
- For IPsec tunnels ICMP messages towards and from inner IP address and outer IP address SHALL be supported.

##### 4.2.1.1.3 DHCPv4

- DHCP according to [14] SHOULD be supported. In addition, the equipment SHOULD support the behavior specified in [15], using stable DHCPv4 node identifiers in their dhcp-client-identifier option.

#### 4.2.1.2 IP version 6

##### 4.2.1.2.1 General

- IP version 6 SHOULD be supported according to [9].
If IP version 6 is supported,

- All header fields SHALL be supported.
- The following extension headers SHALL be supported:
Fragment Header

Encapsulating Security Payload Header

Hop-by-Hop Options Header

No Next header

- IP addresses SHALL be supported on
- Logical interfaces: network interfaces that do not have a physical representation, e.g. Ethernet VLAN terminations
- Physical interfaces: Network interfaces that have a physical representation, e.g. a Network Interface Controller (a.k.a. plain Ethernet interfaces)
- Virtual IP interfaces (loopback interfaces). These IP addresses are not attached to any network interface
These may be located in the same or in different subnets.

- For a particular interface, IP addresses SHALL be supported on either the physical or the logical interface(s).

##### 4.2.1.2.2 ICMP for IPv6

If IP version 6 is supported,

- The equipment SHALL support the function of sending and receiving ICMPv6 according to [11] and Neighbor Discovery as defined in [10]. Clause 4.2.4.1.1.2 in [24] shall generally be adhered to, with the differences as defined in [R16]:.
- The following message types SHALL be supported:
neighbor solicitation/advertisement

router solicitation

router advertisement (only receive)

destination unreachable

time exceeded with Code field=1

echo request/reply

- Depending on the type of the received ICMPv6 message the equipment SHALL terminate the ICMP messages, create and send the correct responses, or drop it. Incoming fragmented ICMPv6 will be reassembled as necessary.
- The support of all other types of ICMPv6 messages is OPTIONAL.
- For IPsec tunnels ICMPv6 messages towards and from inner IP addresses and outer IP addresses SHALL be supported.

##### 4.2.1.2.3 DHCPv6

- DHCP according to [16] SHOULD be supported.

##### 4.2.1.2.4 SLAAC

- SLAAC according to [17] SHOULD be supported.

#### 4.2.1.3 Address space

- The whole IP address space SHALL be supported by all O-RAN nodes. However, the special purpose of some IP ranges as defined in [12] (updated by [13]) SHALL be respected.

#### 4.2.1.4 Packet marking

- IP packets SHALL be marked with up to 64 different DSCP values according to [3], as also defined in [23] section 5.3 and [1] section 6.

#### 4.2.1.5 Traceroute

- Traceroute based on UDP SHALL be supported by the equipment.
Traceroute is done at the indication from the m-plane application. A sequence of UDP packets is being sent, with the TTL of first packet being set to 1. This field is gradually incremented, usually with every third packet sent.

- The Source IP address SHALL be indicated by the m-plane application and SHALL be one of the addresses assigned to the equipment.

#### 4.2.1.6 Network OAM

##### 4.2.1.6.1 TWAMP

- TWAMP according to [29] SHOULD be supported, or its variant TWAMP-light as defined in Appendix 1 of [29].

##### 4.2.1.6.2 OWAMP

- OWAMP according to [30] SHOULD be supported.

##### 4.2.1.6.3 ITU-T Y.1731

- ITU-T Recommendation G.8013/Y.1731 according to [31] SHOULD be supported.
- Support should be limited to:
- Ethernet continuity check (ETH-CC) ([31] section 7.1)
- Ethernet loopback (ETH-LB) ([31] section 7.2)
- Ethernet link trace (ETH-LT) ([31] section 7.3)
- All features not listed in [D8] are OPTIONAL.

#### 4.2.1.7 Nework layer setup

- Networking parameters (IP addresses, IP routing entries, …) SHALL be assigned to interfaces based on one of the following methods, with 1. at the highest and 4. at the lowest priority:
- Manual assignment
- SLAAC (IP address, default route) with optional DHCPv6-support for additional parameters
- DHCPv6
- DHCPv4
Note: a more detailed automatic setup procedure is FFS.

### 4.2.2 Transport Layer Interface (layer 4)

#### 4.2.2.1 UDP

- UDP SHALL be supported according to [18], as defined in [22] and [23].

#### 4.2.2.2 SCTP

- SCTP SHALL be supported according to [32], as defined in [1], section 7.
- A node SHALL support a single SCTP association per node pair
- Multiple SCTP associations per node pair SHOULD be supported.
- The minimum size of the receive buffer per socket shall be 128 Kilobytes.
- The SCTP implementation SHALL allow any endpoint to be the initiator of an SCTP association.
Note: the application should define client- and server role of an SCTP association.

#### 4.2.2.3 PTP

The content of this section is FFS.

#### 4.2.2.4 GTP-U

- GTP-U SHALL be supported according to [33].

#### 4.2.2.5 DNS

- DNS according to [50] SHOULD be supported.

### 4.2.3 Security

#### 4.2.3.1 PKI

- A Public Key Infrastructure according to [36] SHOULD be supported.

#### 4.2.3.2 DTLS

- DTLS according to [37] SHALL be supported for the SCTP association(s) of the F1-C interface, as defined in [38] subsections 9.8.2, 9.8.3 and 9.4.

#### 4.2.3.3 IPsec

##### 4.2.3.3.1 Overview

The security of the F1/W1/E1/X2/Xn - interface control, user, synchronization and management plane protocols is increased by providing encryption, integrity protection and communication peer authentication with IPsec according [39]. IPSec can be applied to all IP traffic. It is possible to enable / disable IPsec and to configure IPsec connections to peer-entities independently in terms of security settings for each remote IPsec peer, e.g. per neighbor node or per plane. Further, it is possible to define connections to remote peers which shall not be covered by IPsec although IPsec is enabled (bypassing traffic).

The supported IPsec capabilities follow [40] for interworking purposes and further appliance rules given in [41], [42], [38] and [43]. Since IPsec standards include a high number of selectable security parameters options, 3GPP has recommended to cut down the number of these options in order to guarantee interoperability between different security domains.

##### 4.2.3.3.2 Supported IPsec capabilities

- Services that SHALL be supported (see also [38], section 9.8.2):
Confidentiality, can be enabled/disabled (via ENCR_NULL)

integrity protection, always enabled

data origin authentication, always enabled

anti-replay protection, can be enabled/disabled

extended sequence numbers, can be enabled/disabled

- Protocol that SHALL be supported: ESP ([44], as profiled by [40])
IPsec mode: Tunnel mode

for encrypted packets the DSCP value of the inner packet will be copied to the outer packet

NAT traversal

- ESP encryption transforms that SHALL be supported (including authenticated encryption transforms, see also [40], section 5.3.3):
as in [45] (the ones marked with ‘MUST’)

- ESP authentication transforms that SHALL be supported:
as in [45] (the ones marked with ‘MUST’ or “MUST-”)

AES-GMAC with AES-128 shall be supported.

NULL authentication algorithm is explicitly not allowed for use, unless an authenticated encryption algorithm is used.

- Identification that SHALL be supported:
IP address

Fully Qualified domain name (FQDN) (if DNS is supported)

- Authentication that SHALL be supported:
Pre-shared Keys

Digital certificates in X.509v3 format provided by a Certificate Authority solution. (optional)

- Key exchange that SHALL be supported:
IKEv2 (RFC 4306)

profile as described in [41]

certificate-based authentication according to [41]

certificates according to the profile described by [41]

DH groups 14 and 19

- Security Association multiplicity that SHALL be supported:
multiple IKE SAs (multiple IPsec tunnels)

multiple IPsec SAs

multiple IPsec SAs per IPsec tunnel

- IKE SA(s) and IPSEC SA(s) SHALL be regularly re-established.
- When the full sequence number space of an IPSEC SA(s) is used, the transmission for that SA SHALL stop.
- Dead-Peer-Detection (DPD) SHALL be supported as defined in [46].
- Each node SHALL support a traffic narrowing function for the traffic selector ([46]): If the traffic selector notified from the peer (e.g. Security GW or neighboring node) is wider than the Local/Remote Address range in the SPD information set on the node side, the peers set the traffic selector values to the narrower range.

##### 4.2.3.3.3 Parallel usage of IPsec and other secure transport protocols

- The equipment SHALL support configuration of IPsec (one or more dedicated connections) in parallel with other secure transport protocols like SSH.
For instance, it is possible to run SSH connections within an IPsec tunnel or in parallel to IPsec tunnel(s).

##### 4.2.3.3.4 Responder mode and Initiator/Responder mode support

- The equipment SHALL support a configurable option per IKE Security Association to use "Responder mode" instead of "Responder/Initiator mode".
The mode is related to IKE SA establishment only. The introduction of "Responder mode" does not change the IKE SA rekeying behavior: Each node operates as initiator and responder in IKE_SA rekeying.

## 4.3 Class 2: UNI type interfaces

- Support of this class SHALL include all mandatory features supported in class 1.

### 4.3.1 Class 2.1: Ethernet

#### 4.3.1.1 Data link layer Interface (layer 2)

##### 4.3.1.1.1 General

- The only data link layer to be supported SHALL be Ethernet as defined in IEEE 802.3-2018 [26]
- The supported frame format SHALL be Ethernet frame with type interpretation of the type length field (see [2] section 3). The Length-interpretation and multiplexing data with LLC (IEEE 802.2 LLC standard) SHALL NOT be supported.
- The Ethernet termination feature SHALL support frames with an MTU (i.e. Ethernet SDU) of up to 1500 bytes as in [2], Section 3.2.7 item a).
- The Ethernet termination feature SHOULD support frames with an MTU (i.e. Ethernet SDU) of 1982 bytes as in [2], Section 3.2.7 item c).
- A single VLAN tag for the traffic (i.e. a C-VLAN tag) SHALL be supported according to IEEE 802.1Q-2018 [2].
- Priority tagged frames (i.e, frames tagged with VLAN ID=0) SHALL always be received, as required by the standard.
- Transmitting priority tagged frames is OPTIONAL.
- The UNI to a transport network depicted in Figure 2, specified in MEF 22.3 [49] and amended by MEF 22.3.1, MAY be supported.

##### 4.3.1.1.2 QoS Marking

- VLAN- tagged frames SHALL be marked with up to 8 different PCP values (see [2] for details on the PCP field), to allow for proper traffic scheduling in a VLAN- aware Ethernet network.

##### 4.3.1.1.3 Packet Queuing, -scheduling and -shaping

- Traffic Queuing and -scheduling SHALL be provided for outgoing traffic. At the minimum, a single stage of queuing/scheduling per outgoing interface SHALL be supported.
- Traffic shaping SHOULD be provided for outgoing traffic. At the minimum, a single stage of shaping per outgoing interface SHOULD be supported.
- Scheduling/shaping SHOULD account for all bytes of the IP packet.
- Scheduling/shaping SHALL account for all bytes of the Ethernet frame, including Ethernet header and FCS.
- Schedulers SHALL support at least 6 different per-hop behaviours (PHB):
EF: at least one class of Expedited Forwarding PHB (Defined in [4])

AF1-4: 4 classes of Assured Forwarding PHB (Defined in [5])

BE: Default PHB (Defined in [3])

- PHBs SHALL be selected based on the DSCP value of the packet.
- PHBs SHOULD be selected based on the PCP values of the frame.
- The scheduling discipline to be supported by the scheduler SHALL be priority queueing and, if supported, rate queuing as defined in [6], where AF1-4 are scheduled using a either a priority or a rate queuing scheduling discipline. The result of this scheduling discipline, EF and BE are being scheduled using the priority queuing discipline with EF scheduled at the highest priority and BE scheduled at the lowest priority.
- If implemented, the traffic shaping functionality SHALL allow to configure an average rate (CIR: committed information rate) and a burst size (CBS: committed burst size) to be committed. Range and granularity of these parameters depend on the implementation. In its default state (i.e. without any configuration done) the traffic shaping function SHALL be inacticve.

### 4.3.2  Class 2.2: [Vn-Nf]/N/L3 Service

- A VNF SHOULD be able to use the network services provided by the Vn-Nf/N/L3 service as defined in [47] subsection 5.1.1.2.

## Section 1: DEFINITIONS

1.1 “Affiliate” means an entity that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with another entity, so long as such control exists. For the purpose of this Section, “Control” means beneficial ownership of fifty (50%) percent or more of the voting stock or equity in an entity.

1.2 “Compliant Implementation” means any system, device, method or operation (whether implemented in hardware, software or combinations thereof) that fully conforms to a Final Specification.

1.3 “Adopter(s)” means all entities, who are not Members, Contributors or Academic Contributors, including their Affiliates, who wish to download, use or otherwise access O-RAN Specifications.

1.4 “Minor Update” means an update or revision to an O-RAN Specification published by O-RAN Alliance that does not add any significant new features or functionality and remains interoperable with the prior version of an O-RAN Specification. The term “O-RAN Specifications” includes Minor Updates.

1.5 “Necessary Claims” means those claims of all present and future patents and patent applications, other than design patents and design registrations, throughout the world, which (i) are owned or otherwise licensable by a Member, Contributor or Academic Contributor during the term of its Member, Contributor or Academic Contributorship; (ii) such Member, Contributor or Academic Contributor has the right to grant a license without the payment of consideration to a third party; and (iii) are necessarily infringed by a Compliant Implementation (without considering any Contributions not included in the Final Specification). A claim is necessarily infringed only when it is not possible on technical (but not commercial) grounds, taking into account normal technical practice and the state of the art generally available at the date any Final Specification was published by the O-RAN Alliance or the date the patent claim first came into existence, whichever last occurred, to make, sell, lease, otherwise dispose of, repair, use or operate a Compliant Implementation without infringing that claim. For the avoidance of doubt in exceptional cases where a Final Specification can only be implemented by technical solutions, all of which infringe patent claims, all such patent claims shall be considered Necessary Claims.

1.6 “Defensive Suspension” means for the purposes of any license grant pursuant to Section 3, Member, Contributor, Academic Contributor, Adopter, or any of their Affiliates, may have the discretion to include in their license a term allowing the licensor to suspend the license against a licensee who brings a patent infringement suit against the licensing Member, Contributor, Academic Contributor, Adopter, or any of their Affiliates.

## Section 2: COPYRIGHT LICENSE

2.1 Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, O-RAN Alliance hereby grants to Adopter a nonexclusive, nontransferable, irrevocable, non-sublicensable, worldwide copyright license to obtain, use and modify O-RAN Specifications, but not to further distribute such O-RAN Specification in any modified or unmodified way, solely in furtherance of implementations of an ORAN

Specification.

2.2 Adopter shall not use O-RAN Specifications except as expressly set forth in this Agreement or in a separate written agreement with O-RAN Alliance.

## Section 3: FRAND LICENSE

3.1 Members, Contributors and Academic Contributors and their Affiliates are prepared to grant based on a separate Patent License Agreement to each Adopter under Fair Reasonable And Non- Discriminatory (FRAND) terms and conditions with or without compensation (royalties) a nonexclusive, non-transferable, irrevocable (but subject to Defensive Suspension), non-sublicensable, worldwide patent license under their Necessary Claims to make, have made, use, import, offer to sell, lease, sell and otherwise distribute Compliant Implementations; provided, however, that such license shall not extend: (a) to any part or function of a product in which a Compliant Implementation is incorporated that is not itself part of the Compliant Implementation; or (b) to any Adopter if that Adopter is not making a reciprocal grant to Members, Contributors and Academic Contributors, as set forth in Section 3.3. For the avoidance of doubt, the foregoing licensing commitment includes the distribution by the Adopter’s distributors and the use by the Adopter’s customers of such licensed Compliant Implementations.

3.2 Notwithstanding the above, if any Member, Contributor or Academic Contributor, Adopter or their Affiliates has reserved the right to charge a FRAND royalty or other fee for its license of Necessary Claims to Adopter, then Adopter is entitled to charge a FRAND royalty or other fee to such Member, Contributor or Academic Contributor, Adopter and its Affiliates for its license of Necessary Claims to its licensees.

3.3 Adopter, on behalf of itself and its Affiliates, shall be prepared to grant based on a separate Patent License Agreement to each Members, Contributors, Academic Contributors, Adopters and their Affiliates under Fair Reasonable And Non-Discriminatory (FRAND) terms and conditions with or without compensation (royalties) a nonexclusive, non-transferable, irrevocable (but subject to Defensive Suspension), non-sublicensable, worldwide patent license under their Necessary Claims to make, have made, use, import, offer to sell, lease, sell and otherwise distribute Compliant Implementations; provided, however, that such license will not extend: (a) to any part or function of a product in which a Compliant Implementation is incorporated that is not itself part of the Compliant Implementation; or (b) to any Members, Contributors, Academic Contributors, Adopters and their Affiliates that is not making a reciprocal grant to Adopter, as set forth in Section 3.1. For the avoidance of doubt, the foregoing licensing commitment includes the distribution by the Members’, Contributors’, Academic Contributors’, Adopters’ and their Affiliates’ distributors and the use by the Members’, Contributors’, Academic Contributors’, Adopters’ and their Affiliates’ customers of such licensed Compliant Implementations.

## Section 4: TERM AND TERMINATION

4.1 This Agreement shall remain in force, unless early terminated according to this Section 4.

4.2 O-RAN Alliance on behalf of its Members, Contributors and Academic Contributors may terminate this Agreement if Adopter materially breaches this Agreement and does not cure or is not capable of curing such breach within thirty (30) days after being given notice specifying the breach.

4.3 Sections 1, 3, 5 - 11 of this Agreement shall survive any termination of this Agreement. Under surviving Section 3, after termination of this Agreement, Adopter will continue to grant licenses (a) to entities who become Adopters after the date of termination; and (b) for future versions of ORAN Specifications that are backwards compatible with the version that was current as of the date of termination.

## Section 5: CONFIDENTIALITY

Adopter will use the same care and discretion to avoid disclosure, publication, and dissemination of O-RAN Specifications to third parties, as Adopter employs with its own confidential information, but no less than reasonable care. Any disclosure by Adopter to its Affiliates, contractors and consultants should be subject to an obligation of confidentiality at least as restrictive as those contained in this Section. The foregoing obligation shall not apply to any information which is: (1) rightfully known by Adopter without any limitation on use or disclosure prior to disclosure; (2) publicly available through no fault of Adopter; (3) rightfully received without a duty of confidentiality; (4) disclosed by O-RAN Alliance or a Member, Contributor or Academic Contributor to a third party without a duty of confidentiality on such third party; (5) independently developed by Adopter; (6) disclosed pursuant to the order of a court or other authorized governmental body, or as required by law, provided that Adopter provides reasonable prior written notice to O-RAN Alliance, and cooperates with O-RAN Alliance and/or the applicable Member, Contributor or Academic Contributor to have the opportunity to oppose any such order; or (7) disclosed by Adopter with O-RAN Alliance’s prior written approval.

## Section 6: INDEMNIFICATION

Adopter shall indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the O-RAN Alliance, its Members, Contributors or Academic Contributors, and their employees, and agents and their respective successors, heirs and assigns (the “Indemnitees”), against any liability, damage, loss, or expense (including reasonable attorneys’ fees and expenses) incurred by or imposed upon any of the Indemnitees in connection with any claims, suits, investigations, actions, demands or judgments arising out of Adopter’s use of the licensed O-RAN Specifications or Adopter’s commercialization of products that comply with O-RAN Specifications.

## Section 7: LIMITATIONS ON LIABILITY; NO WARRANTY

EXCEPT FOR BREACH OF CONFIDENTIALITY, ADOPTER’S BREACH OF SECTION 3, AND ADOPTER’S INDEMNIFICATION OBLIGATIONS, IN NO EVENT SHALL ANY PARTY BE LIABLE TO ANY OTHER PARTY OR THIRD PARTY FOR ANY INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, PUNITIVE OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES RESULTING FROM ITS PERFORMANCE OR NON-PERFORMANCE UNDER THIS AGREEMENT, IN EACH CASE WHETHER UNDER CONTRACT, TORT, WARRANTY, OR OTHERWISE, AND WHETHER OR NOT SUCH PARTY HAD ADVANCE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. O-RAN SPECIFICATIONS ARE PROVIDED “AS IS” WITH NO WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS WHATSOEVER, WHETHER EXPRESS, IMPLIED, STATUTORY, OR OTHERWISE. THE O-RAN ALLIANCE AND THE MEMBERS, CONTRIBUTORS OR ACADEMIC CONTRIBUTORS EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM ANY WARRANTY OR CONDITION OF MERCHANTABILITY, SECURITY, SATISFACTORY QUALITY, NONINFRINGEMENT, FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE, ERROR-FREE OPERATION, OR ANY WARRANTY OR CONDITION FOR O-RAN SPECIFICATIONS.

## Section 8: ASSIGNMENT

Adopter may not assign the Agreement or any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement or make any grants or other sublicenses to this Agreement, except as expressly authorized hereunder, without having first received the prior, written consent of the O-RAN Alliance, which consent may be withheld in O-RAN Alliance’s sole discretion. O-RAN Alliance may freely assign this Agreement.

## Section 9: THIRD-PARTY BENEFICIARY RIGHTS

Adopter acknowledges and agrees that Members, Contributors and Academic Contributors (including future Members, Contributors and Academic Contributors) are entitled to rights as a third-party beneficiary under this Agreement, including as licensees under Section 3.

## Section 10: BINDING ON AFFILIATES

Execution of this Agreement by Adopter in its capacity as a legal entity or association constitutes that legal entity’s or association’s agreement that its Affiliates are likewise bound to the obligations that are applicable to Adopter hereunder and are also entitled to the benefits of the rights of Adopter hereunder.

## Section 11: GENERAL

This Agreement is governed by the laws of Germany without regard to its conflict or choice of law provisions.

This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties as to its express subject matter and expressly supersedes and replaces any prior or contemporaneous agreements between the parties, whether written or oral, relating to the subject matter of this Agreement.

Adopter, on behalf of itself and its Affiliates, agrees to comply at all times with all applicable laws, rules and regulations with respect to its and its Affiliates’ performance under this Agreement, including without limitation, export control and antitrust laws. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Adopter acknowledges that this Agreement prohibits any communication that would violate the antitrust laws.

By execution hereof, no form of any partnership, joint venture or other special relationship is created between Adopter, or O-RAN Alliance or its Members, Contributors or Academic Contributors. Except as expressly set forth in this Agreement, no party is authorized to make any commitment on behalf of Adopter, or O-RAN Alliance or its Members, Contributors or Academic Contributors.

In the event that any provision of this Agreement conflicts with governing law or if any provision is held to be null, void or otherwise ineffective or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, (i) such provisions will be deemed stricken from the contract, and (ii) the remaining terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions of this Agreement will remain in full force and effect.

Any failure by a party or third party beneficiary to insist upon or enforce performance by another party of any of the provisions of this Agreement or to exercise any rights or remedies under this Agreement or otherwise by law shall not be construed as a waiver or relinquishment to any extent of the other parties’ or third party beneficiary’s right to assert or rely upon any such provision, right or remedy in that or any other instance; rather the same shall be and remain in full force and effect.


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG5.U.0-R003-v07.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG5.U.0-R003-v07.00 O-RAN Work Group 5 (Open F1/W1/E1/X2/Xn Interfaces Working Group)   NR U-plane profile"
---

# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms

Definitions used in this specification refer to the ones defined in the referenced 3GPP specifications.

## 3.2 Symbols

Void

## 3.2 Abbreviations

Abbreviations defined in this document take precedence over the definition of the referenced 3GPP specifications.

DDDS				DL DATA DELIVERY STATUS

AID				ASSISTANCE INFORMATION DATA

# 4 User plane function

This section provides NR U-plane profile to achieve interoperability. In this version of the profile, RLC-AM and RLC-UM are supported. In this version of the profile, the following procedure is defined.

Flow control

## 4.1 Flow control

### 4.1.1 Elementary procedures

#### 4.1.1.1 Node behaviour of the corresponding node

When the corresponding node indicates Radio Link Outage over NR-U, the corresponding node shall not interpret the Radio Link Outage indication as a trigger to discard any remaining packets for RLC-AM and RLC-UM and shall not discard the packets unless receiving indication from the higher layer, e.g. RLC entity re-establishment/release, or buffer discard indication from the node hosting the NR PDCP entity.

Unless a situation of overload at the corresponding node is encountered, the corresponding node may send DDDS in the following cases in addition to the cases TS 38.425 [2] defines:

Lost packet detection

Radio link outage

Stop scheduling for the data bearer

### 4.1.2 Elements for the NR user plane protocols

#### 4.1.2.1 General

For the optional fields of DDDS, if the corresponding value is not available yet (e.g. no valid corresponding PDCP SN to be reported as the corresponding node hasn't yet transmitted any NR PDCP PDU to the lower layer), the corresponding node shall not include the corresponding IEs (including the corresponding indication for presence) in the DDDS. Once the value comes to be valid or updated, the corresponding node shall include them at least in the next DDDS.

> NOTE:	For Lost Packet Report fields, if the value is continuously reported in the consecutive DDDS, the node hosting the NR PDCP entity cannot identify whether the reported lost NR-U Sequence Number is for before or after the wrap around. How to prevent this is up to implementation.

#### 4.1.2.2 Report polling

The node hosting the NR PDCP entity shall use this IE to trigger the corresponding node to send DDDS when the Report Polling Flag set to 1.

The corresponding node shall send DDDS when the Report Polling Flag set to 1, unless a situation of overload at the corresponding node is encountered.

#### 4.1.2.3 Buffer discard Indication

The corresponding node shall support both DL Discard Blocks and DL Flush for the buffer discard indication.

#### 4.1.2.4 User data existence flag

In case of split bearer, when the corresponding node does not support the IE, e.g. for the corresponding node compliant with the former version of 3GPP specification, the node hosting the NR PDCP entity shall send the actual user data to notify the existence of user data.

#### 4.1.2.5 Assistance Information Report Polling Flag

The node hosting the NR PDCP entity shall use this IE to trigger the corresponding node sending AID whenever it needs.

> NOTE:	Whether the corresponding node sends AID by itself is up to implementation.

#### 4.1.2.6 Radio quality assistance information

It is configured via M-plane which assistance information to be included in AID.

For the information configured to be reported and supported by the corresponding node:

if corresponding value is not available yet (e.g. no valid Power Headroom Report to be reported as the corresponding node hasn't yet received any Power Headroom Report from the UE):

the corresponding node shall not include the corresponding information in the reporting AID.

else:

the corresponding node shall include the latest value as the corresponding information in the consecutive AID, even when there is no update from the previous reported AID.

when Power Headroom Report is configured to be reported and multiple data bearers are configured to one UE, the corresponding node shall include Power Headroom Report information in all the reporting AID.

For the information configured not to be reported or not supported by the corresponding node, the corresponding node shall not include the corresponding information in the AID.

#### 4.1.2.7 DL report NR PDCP PDU SN

The node hosting the NR PDCP entity may use this IE to trigger the corresponding node to send DDDS when the NR PDCP PDU with this sequence number has been successfully delivered.

The corresponding node, if supported, shall send DDDS when the NR PDCP PDU with the indicated DL report NR PDCP PDU SN has been successfully delivered, unless a situation of overload at the corresponding node is encountered. The DDDS sent as a response to a specific DL report NR PDCP PDU SN shall be sent only when all PDCP PDU SNs up to this DL report NR PDCP PDU have been successfully delivered in-sequence.


---

<!-- SOURCE: combined_oran_wg6.md -->
<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN-WG6.AppLCM-Deployment-R003-v02.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN-WG6.AppLCM-Deployment-R003-v02.00"
---

### 5.1.4 Recommended Requirements ...................................................................... Error! Bookmark not defined.

## 1.1 Revision History per Topic
TOPIC REVISION STATUS Application Package Concepts & Security Clause 4.2 / Reviewed / March 2023 Release Train Deployment Flow for ASD and Cloud Native Artifacts Clause 5.1 / Reviewed / March 2023 Release Train Use Case Deployment Flow for VNFD Use Case Clause 5.2 / Reviewed / March 2023 Release Train Potential & Recommended Requirements Clause 5.2 / Reviewed / March 2023 Release Train Deployment Descriptor with ASD (Information Clause 6.1 / Reviewed / March 2023 Release Train Requirements for K8s-aware solution) Deployment Descriptor with VM (Information Clause 6.x / Requirements for ETSI VNF VM-aware solution)

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols, and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms apply: DeploymentDescriptor: a template validated by the Solution Provider describing the deployment options for the application that includes one or more DeploymentItems. DeploymentItem: a template that describes the requirements for the deployment of a component of the application on the O-Cloud.

## 3.2 Symbols
Void O-RAN-WG6.AppLCM-Deployment-R003-v02.00

## 3.3 Abbreviations & Acronyms
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations apply: Abbreviation & Acronyms Definition AI / ML Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning ASD Application Service Descriptor CSAR Cloud Service Archive DMS Deployment Management Services ETSI European Telecommunications Standards Institute IMS Infrastructure Management Services K8s Kubernetes LCM Life Cycle Management OA&M Operations, Administration & Management O-RAN Open Radio Access Network SMO Service Management & Orchestration VNFD VNF Descriptor

# 4 Background

## 4.1 Introduction
This section describes the Common Application Life Cycle Management of applications that are developed by a Solution Provider and delivered to a Service Provider or Network Operator for deployment in an O-Cloud. Once the Solution Provider delivers the NF deployment, it is validated in a test environment prior to giving to operations to deploy. The description of the delivery of the NF deployments to the Service Provider as part of LCM is detailed in the OAM architecture document. The framework for Lifecycle Management is defined in the OAM Architecture document [1]. The O-RAN Cloudification & Orchestration aspects described here complements the concepts in the OAM Architecture specification. The following diagram in Error! Reference source not found. is an example that applies to the ASD solution for didactic purposes. O-RAN-WG6.AppLCM-Deployment-R003-v02.00 The above diagram depicts some of the key steps in basic application package orchestration:
- Step 1, DELIVER: a solution provider (vendor) delivers an application package (app package) which may include a
variety of artifacts. These artifacts may include application descriptors, model descriptors, informational artifacts, cloud native artifacts, metadata, and dictionaries.
- Step 2, ONBOARDING: Onboarding involves the ingestion, verification, and unpacking of the package and
storage into a catalog. The SMO performs these onboarding activities and may usea cloud-native onboarding tools for that purpose. During this process, an AI/ML model can be trained. o Security Package Validation – During onboarding, the security validation of the package or package artifact(s) is performed. See the OAM Architecture document [1] clause 4.1.3, and clause 4.1.4.
- Step 3, CERTIFICATION PROCESS: After onboarding, the package undergoes a certification process from the
catalog in the SMO. Afterwards, it is published to an artifact repository (aka the run-time library). Certification of the package may include the following: security validation of artifacts, metadata verification, artifact verification against indicated metadata locations. See the OAM Architecture document [1]. o Note: The package cannot be certified until training is finished. If the AI/ML training cannot complete, the package is not certified. o Note: The package cannot be certified until security validation of the package is completed. o Note: For some operators, the package may go through part of the certification process before onboarding (Step 1 and Step 2).
- Step 4, DEPLOY: In deployment, The deployment tool is given a reference to the image repository entry from
which the image can be pulled. Inventory is updated.

## 4.2 App Package

### 4.2.1 App Package Concepts
The package concepts are motivated from the ETSI GS NFV-SOL 004 [2] standards which describe the directory structure and required files for a package. O-RAN-WG6.AppLCM-Deployment-R003-v02.00 The Application Package contains: Manifest file – The manifest file describes the location and types of files in the package. Metadata – The metadata contains reference information related to the package itself. It is information about the information in the package, hence it is called metadata. Other artifacts – The package can also contain other artifacts as well such as informational artifacts. Note: The OAM Architecture specification [1] does not cover details about the application package.

### 4.2.2 App Package Security
An important aspect of managing application packages of CNFs, VNFs, rApps, and xApps as it relates to O-RAN Cloudification & Orchestration are the security aspects. The WG11 Security Requirements specification [12] covers security requirements and controls related to package security. These requirements follow ETSI GS NFV-SEC 021 [11], ETSI GS NFV-IFA011 [3] (stage 2) and ETSI GS NFV-SOL 004 [2] Clause 5.1 (stage 3) which describes two options for package security: Option 1 Per Artifact: The VNF package shall contain a Digest (a.k.a. hash) for each of the components of the VNF package. The table of hashes is included in the manifest file, which is signed with the VNF provider private key. In addition, the VNF provider shall include a signing certificate that includes the VNF provider public key, following a pre-defined naming convention and located either at the root of the archive or in a predefined location (e.g., directory). The certificate may also be included in the signature container if the signature format allows that. For example, the CMS format allows to include the certificate in the same container as the signature. All package artifacts shall be individually signed by the VNF provider as per ETSI GS NFV-SOL 004 [2] Clause 5.4 (stage 3) and the WG11 Security Requirements specification [12]. Option 2 Per CSAR Package: The complete CSAR file shall be digitally signed with the VNF provider private key. The VNF provider delivers one zip file consisting of the CSAR file, a signature file and a certificate file that includes the VNF provider public key. Only one signature of the CSAR file shall be present. The certificate may also be included in the signature container if the signature format allows that. The manifest shall be signed in both option 1 and option 2. Only one signature of the manifest shall be present. O-RAN-WG6.AppLCM-Deployment-R003-v02.00

### 4.2.3 App Package DeploymentDescriptor
This section describes the Application Package (App Package) as it relates to O-RAN Cloudification & Orchestration. The OAM Architecture document (see reference [1]) details the Application Package model which details the high-level composition of the Application Package (AppPackage). This is shown in figure 2. The part of that model that is pertinent to O-RAN cloudification & orchestration that is within scope of the [Work Item Technical Report] is demarcated with a blue box in figure 2. This section also describes the Application Service Descriptor (ASD) and the VNF Descriptor (VNFD) in the application package. These two things serve the same function in their respective profiles, and these terms are used interchangeably through the rest of the document. The ASD is a simplified deployment descriptor compared to the VNFD for CNFs, xApps and rApps to leverage enhancements in orchestrators. In figure 2, the part of the model highlighted with the blue box, shows that the DeploymentDescriptor is contained within an AppPackage. The DeploymentDescriptor has a composition relationship to Deployment Item(s). The Deployment Item(s) has a composition (containment) relationship to one cloud native descriptor files. The DeploymentItem has an association relationship with the ExecutableImage(s) which has a cardinality of zero to many. In figure 2, the part of the model highlighted with the blue box, ties back to the application package model management descriptor which is described in more detail in this TR. Note: future versions of this document will further describe this part of the model (in the blue box). This TR suggests that the DeploymentDescriptor and DeploymentItem(s) be contained within one artifact in the package as an Application Service Descriptor (ASD) or VNF Descriptor (VNFD). The DeploymentItem is part of the ASD. However, it is possible that the DeploymentDescriptor and DeploymentItem(s) could be in separate artifact. There will be metadata pertaining to the cloud native descriptor file. The metadata will include the checksum/hash, and type of file (helm, K8s manifest, SOL doc). From a workflow perspective, it uses the metadata to determine the appropriate action to take. The ASD allows the SMO to determine the resource requirements based on variables of the cloud native descriptor file. The deployment requirements can be derived for the executable image from the deployment item and the cloud native descriptor file. O-RAN-WG6.AppLCM-Deployment-R003-v02.00 The OAM architecture document and Information Model specification in reference [1] in the Lifecycle Management section describes the full model and the components show in more detail.

### 4.2.4 CloudNativeDescriptorFile and ExecutableImage

# 5 Use Cases

## 5.1 Deployment Flow for ASD And Cloud Native Artifacts Use
Case

### 5.1.1 Introduction
This describes a use case and flow to deploy an application (such as a NF deployment) into the O-Cloud. The deployment uses a deployment tool that is appropriate for the artifactType in the DeploymentItem. This use case is for an application deployment on a K8s Cluster with an ASD.
> NOTE 2: The use case flow illustrates interactions among entities within the SMO and between the SMO and the O-
Cloud. O-RAN-WG6.AppLCM-Deployment-R003-v02.00

### 5.1.2 UML Sequence Diagram
O-RAN-WG6.AppLCM-Deployment-R003-v02.00 O-RAN-WG6.AppLCM-Deployment-R003-v02.00

### 5.1.3 Sequence Table
<<Uses>> USE CASE EVOLUTION / SPECIFICATION STAGE Related Use Use Case Title Deployment Flow using ASD and Cloud Native Artifacts Use Case The SMO uses the data available in the respective Deployment Descriptor to extract the specific xNF constraints (e.g., additional connectivity requirements, specific infrastructure capabilities needed, the specific input values provided in the lifecycle Parameters, etc.). Goal The SMO makes the homing decision (choses a Kubernetes cluster) that matches the xNFs deployment requirements and parameterizes the cloud artifacts according to the received input (such as K8s resource descriptions, ASD, and other relevant data available for respective deployment). Cloud Operator – An operator of the Cloud. SMO: Orchestrator – One of the components in the SMO that coordinates orchestration. Actors and Roles SMO: Deployment Tool – One of the components in the SMO that manages the cloud native deployment. O-Cloud DMS – The O-Cloud Deployment Management Services. Deployment tool – It is assumed that the SMO has the proper deployment tool that corresponds to the artifactType in the DeploymentItem. For example, helm. Assumptions Deployment descriptors – This consists of a DeploymentDescriptor and one to many CloudNativeDescriptorFiles. Onboarded & Cataloged – The App Package for NF Deployment is onboarded and cataloged. Preconditions Connectivity – SMO has connectivity to O-Cloud. O-Cloud Operational – O-Cloud has registered its DMS with the SMO. This use case begins when the Cloud Operator initiates the creation of a NF Begins when Deployment. The Cloud operator initiates a deployment operation which consists of a set of a DeploymentItem, which supports complex applications that require multiple artifacts (like Helm charts) to be installed in a particular order. Step 1 (M) Each deploymentOrder is from a list of DeploymentItem constructs. Each DeploymentItem has lifeCycleParameters that show how the input parameters for that deployment are mapped into their respective CloudNativeDescriptorFiles. Step 2 (M) EXTRACTS xNF CONSTRAINTS O-RAN-WG6.AppLCM-Deployment-R003-v02.00 The orchestrator extracts xNF constraints from the NF deployment descriptor, in this case the ASD. COLLECT INPUT & PARAMETERIZATIONS(Optional) The purpose of the collect input & parameterizations step is to use input received from the Cloud operator for this deployment and map it into the CloudNativeDescriptorFiles according to mapping provided by the lifeCycleParameters and determine a K8s Resource Descriptor. Step 3 (ALT, OPT) The deployment tool receives and processes the cloud artifacts and lifeCycleParameters native to the cloud artifact. The artifactType defines the type of artifacts within the DeploymentItem and what will be native to those artifacts. The lifeCycleParameters are the list of parameters that can be overridden at deployment time (e.g., the list of parameters in the values.yaml). OUTPUT K8s MANIFEST FILES Step 4 (ALT, OPT) The deployment tool returns the K8s manifest files and collects the resources requirements. PROCESS K8s MANIFEST FILE Step 5 (ALT, OPT) K8s Manifest is processed to update the xNF constraints. CALCULATE RESOURCE REQUIREMENTS Step 6 (M) The orchestrator calculates the resource requirements. HOMING DECISION (CLUSTER ID IS NOT PROVIDED) The orchestrator performs the homing step. The homing decision uses the aggregated resource requirements, constraints fetched from the DeploymentDescriptor (e.g., ASD) and data available locally for the SMO to process the decision. Note: data may be anything that the SMO knows Step 7 (ALT) out of the scope of the ASD and K8s resource descriptor. The orchestrator makes a homing decision that matches the NF deployment requirements. It identifies a K8s cluster type or instance to deploy upon. The Homing operation selects the DMS that will be used. If an operator has multiple clouds (each one with multiple DMSes), the orchestrator will identify which cloud and DMS that are used. HOMING DECISION (CLUSTER ID IS AVAILABLE) Step 8 (ALT) The orchestrator checks that the inventory has the referred cluster with free resources for placement based on the aggregated resource requirements. Also, it checks that the cluster fulfils the constraints from the DeploymentDescriptor. POSSIBLE ALTERNATIVE FLOW: HOMING DECISION (CLUSTER ID PROVIDED BUT NO FREE RESOURCES OR CONSTRAINTS NOT FULFILED) The cluster designated by the Cluster ID doesn’t have the free resources needed for Step 9 (ALT) the application deployment. A failure notification is sent. The orchestrator continues to seek a suitable cluster, going back to step 5. O-RAN-WG6.AppLCM-Deployment-R003-v02.00 Note: The repetition, defaults for retries of the homing decision are implementation specific. ALT FLOW: ADDITIONAL CLUSTER PROVISIONING IS NEEDED This alt flow is used if additional cluster provisioning is required. Step 10 (ALT) For example, it might be the case that the deployment requires an inter-cluster network. The deployment may span more than one cluster. In this case, the orchestrator may have to go back to FOCOM/IMS because the cluster networks would need to be provisioned in the IMS. ALT FLOW: CONFIGURE THE CLUSTER Step 11 (ALT) The orchestrator will instruct FOCOM/IMS to configure the cluster. DEPLOYMENT REQUEST Step 12 (M) The deployment is performed with the cluster ID, and the required cloud artifacts (e.g., K8s manifest). DEPLOYMENT REQUEST Step 13 (M) The orchestrator (SMO) requests for the deployment tools (SMO) for the deployment operation with the Cluster ID, lifeCycle Parameters and Cloud Artifacts. DEPLOYMENT The deployment tool requests for the deployment operation towards O2 DMS over Step 14 (M) the O2dms Interface. The Inventory is updated within the SMO for the deployment. The application has been deployed to the appropriate cluster. This use case ends Ends When when the containerized workload is up and running in a suitable Kubernetes cluster. Exceptions – A failed deployment occurs; thus, the application could not be Exceptions deployed. A cluster that matches the requirements was not available for this deployment. Success – In a successful post-condition, the containerized workload is up and running in the chosen Kubernetes cluster with a given cluster ID. O1 registration occurs with the PNF/xNF registering with O1. Failure – The post-condition upon a failure the deployment did not occur. It is Post-conditions expected that the O-Cloud & O-Cloud infrastructure resources are in the same state. For further details see the instantiate use case in K8s [12] and NFV profiles [11]. and instantiate Use Case in Orchestration Use Case. (See Requirements Below) [REQ-ORC-xx+1], [REQ-ORC-xx+2], [REQ-ORC- Traceability xx+3], [REQ-ORC-xx+4], [REQ-ORC-xx+5], [REQ-ORC-xx+6]

### 5.1.4 Recommended Requirements for Deployment Flow for ASD and Cloud
Native Artifacts Use Cases O-RAN-WG6.AppLCM-Deployment-R003-v02.00 ORCHESTRATION REQUIREMENTS RELATED TO O2 (Recommended section for the Orchestration & Cloudification Use Case document) POTENTIAL NEW REQUIREMENTS: Deployment Flow The deployment descriptors provided for the NF deployment shall for ASD And contain necessary information to enable the SMO, together with other [REQ-ORC-xx+1] Cloud Native input data received from the cloud operator to perform a homing Artifacts Use decision. Case Deployment Flow The DeploymentDescriptor (e.g., ASD) shall contain deployment for ASD And parameters to enable the SMO to perform application deployment. [REQ-ORC-xx+2] Cloud Native Note: for further information on the DeploymentDescriptor and Artifacts Use Information Model (IM) see reference [13]. Case The DeploymentDescriptor (e.g., ASD) shall contain Deployment Flow “lifecycleParameters” to support the SMO to map cloud operator for ASD And [REQ-ORC-xx+3] customizable deployment parameters for the application deployment. Cloud Native Artifacts Use Note: For further information about the “lifecycleParameters” see Case reference [13]. Deployment Flow The DeploymentDescriptor shall support providing default values in for ASD And the chart enabling the SMO (Orchestrator & Deployment Tools) to [REQ-ORC-xx+4] Cloud Native complement them with instance specific parameter values in order to Artifacts Use construct a values file. Case The DeploymentDescriptor (e.g., ASD) shall contain necessary Deployment Flow deployment information enabling the SMO (Orchestrator & for ASD And Deployment Tools) to render corresponding concrete K8s manifest Cloud Native [REQ-ORC-xx+5] descriptions. Artifacts Use Case Note: This aspect is under investigation and will be reflected in a future version of this document. Deployment Flow The DeploymentDescriptor (e.g., ASD) shall have workload for ASD And descriptors that can be parsed by the SMO. [REQ-ORC-xx+6] Cloud Native Note: This aspect is under investigation and will be reflected in a future Artifacts Use version of this document Case Deployment Flow The DeploymentDescriptor (e.g., ASD) shall support describing for ASD And resource requirements to enble the SMO (Orchestrator & Deployment [REQ-ORC-xx+7] Cloud Native Tools) to extract cloud resource requirements including but not limited Artifacts Use to quantitative requirements. Case

## 5.2 Deployment flow for VNFD use case

### 5.2.1 Introduction
Clause 5.2 describes a use case and flow to deploy an application, such as an NF Deployment into the O-Cloud, using the ETSI NFV defined Virtualised Network Function (VNF) Descriptor (VNFD) specified in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 011 [3]. O-RAN-WG6.AppLCM-Deployment-R003-v02.00
> NOTE 1: It is assumed in the use case flow that the SMO interacts with an O-Cloud DMS based on the O2-D
demarcation #1 documented in the O-RAN.WG6.O2DMS-INTERFACE-ETSI-NFV-PROFILE [4]. The use case flow could be revisited, or new ones be derived, in future versions of the present document based on further updates performed to the referenced document.
> NOTE 2: The use case flow illustrates interactions among entities within the SMO and between the SMO and the
O-Cloud. Clause 2.3.2 of O-RAN.WG6.O2DMS-INTERFACE-ETSI-NFV-PROFILE [4] provides the mapping and correspondence of management functions and functional blocks between the O-RAN and ETSI NFV architectural frameworks.

### 5.2.2 UML sequence diagram
O-RAN-WG6.AppLCM-Deployment-R003-v02.00

### 5.2.3 Sequence table
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use O-RAN-WG6.AppLCM-Deployment-R003-v02.00 Goal Application deployment (NF Deployment) into the O-Cloud using VNFD. Cloud operator: an operator of the O-RAN NF and O-Cloud. SMO logical functions: NFO, FOCOM Package repository within SMO (see note 1) O-Cloud DMS: the O-Cloud Deployment Management Services. Actors and Roles
> NOTE 1: It is out of scope of the present document to specify whether
the SMO supports package repository functions and/or services. O-Cloud DMS offers NF Deployment management functionality Assumptions according to the O2-D demarcation #1 documented in O- RAN.WG6.O2DMS-INTERFACE-ETSI-NFV-PROFILE [4]. 1) The Cloud operator has required privileges to instantiate the NF 2) The Application Package for NF Deployment, which includes the VNFD and other artifacts, is onboarded and catalogued, and it is valid Pre-conditions as per VNF Package and VNFD specification (reference is provided to ETSI GS NFV-IFA 011 [3] as "VNF Package and VNFD specification"). 3) SMO has connectivity to O-Cloud 4) O-Cloud has registered its DMS with the SMO. Begins when Cloud operator requests the instantiation of an NF Deployment. Cloud operator requests to instantiate an NF Deployment based on a VNFD, which is identified in the request. The VNFD contains one or Step 1 (M) more DeploymentItems describing the requirements for the NF Deployment. NFO queries the Package repository to get the VNFD from the Step 2 (M) Application Package corresponding to the NF Deployment requested to be instantiated. NFO checks the NF Deployment metadata, resource requirements Step 3 (M) (types and amount), deployment lifecycle parameters and deployment items information from the VNFD. NFO coordinates with FOCOM to check O-Cloud inventory, capacity and resources availability of the O-Cloud. The request could include a list of identified O-Cloud Sites, if a pre-selection or requirements about Step 4 (M) specific NF Deployment location are available to the NFO (e.g., provided by the Cloud operator), so that O-Cloud DMS instance that matches the application requirements is selected NFO performs an NF Deployment homing, which determines the O- Cloud (see note 2) and the respective O-Cloud DMS responsible for the NF Deployment instantiation. Step 5 (M)
> NOTE 2: It is assumed that the NF Deployment instantiation is
confided to a single O-Cloud. In case of successful homing, the NFO updates inventory information in Step 6 (M) the SMO based on the homing decision. The NFVO also prepares necessary input data for the NF Deployment instantiation request. In case of unsuccessful homing, the NFO informs the Cloud operator of Step 7 (M) unsuccessful NF Deployment instantiation. NFO requests the O-Cloud DMS to instantiate the NF Deployment. The instantiation request(s) can provide necessary input lifecycle and Step 8 (M) configuration data for the instantiation. Information about granted resources, target O-Cloud and placement constraints for the NF Deployment can also be provided. In case the O-Cloud DMS does not have the VNFD and/or other information needed for the instantiation of the NF Deployment (e.g., Step 9 (M) certain artifacts), the DMS fetches from the Package repository the necessary content of the Application Package. O-Cloud DMS proceeds with NF Deployment instantiation as described Clause 2.4.2.1 of in clause 2.4.2.1 of O-RAN.WG6.O2DMS-INTERFACE-ETSI-NFV- O- PROFILE. The O-Cloud DMS uses the information provided at runtime RAN.WG6.O2DMS- on the request, information from the VNFD and contents from the INTERFACE-ETSI- Application Package to perform the allocation of necessary O-Cloud NFV-PROFILE resources for the NF Deployment. In case of successful instantiation of the NF Deployment, the O-Cloud Step 10 (M) DMS updates the runtime information of the NF Deployment and informs to the NFO of the successful instantiation. NFO updates the inventory information according to the successful NF Step 11 (M) Deployment instantiation. O-RAN-WG6.AppLCM-Deployment-R003-v02.00 In case of unsuccessful instantiation of the NF Deployment, the O- Step 12 (M) Cloud DMS informs to the NFO about the failures/errors. The O-Cloud DMS proceed with the rollback of the instantiation. NFO proceeds with necessary rollback handling, freeing any of the Step 13 (M) granted/reserved resources for the NF Deployment and updating the inventory information considering the unsuccessful instantiation. NFO informs the Cloud operator about the result (either successful or Step 14 (M) not successful) of the instantiation of the NF Deployment. The Cloud operator is informed about the NF Deployment instantiation Ends when result.
- NF Deployment homing fails: O-Cloud does not have enough or
required resources for the NF Deployment. Exceptions - NF Deployment instantiation fails: O-Cloud DMS notifies SMO and SMO informs Cloud operator, and granted/reserved resources are freed, and inventory data is updated accordingly. Post-conditions The NF Deployment is instantiated on the O-Cloud. REQ-SMO-VNFD.0a, REQ-SMO-VNFD.0b, REQ-SMO-VNFD.0c, REQ- Traceability SMO-VNFD.0d, REQ-SMO-VNFD.0e, REQ-SMO-VNFD.0f O-RAN-WG6.AppLCM-Deployment-R003-v02.00

### 5.3.2 Potential New Requirements for Deployment flow for VNFD Use
Case Identifier Requirement Additional notes The deployment descriptors provided for the NF Deployment shall REQ-SMO- contain necessary information to enable the SMO, together with other Deployment flow for VNFD.0a input data received from the Cloud operator, perform a homing decision VNFD use case for the application deployment. The DeploymentDescriptor (e.g., VNFD) shall contain NF Deployment resource requirements (type and amount) and NF Deployment units’ REQ-SMO- Deployment flow for affinity/anti-affinity constraints to enable the SMO (NFO) to parse, VNFD.0b VNFD use case process and use the deployment information for the application deployment. The DeploymentDescriptor (e.g., VNFD) shall support defining lifecycle REQ-SMO- parameters for the corresponding NF Deployment to enble the SMO Deployment flow for VNFD.0c (NFO) to parse, process and determine the lifecycle operation to VNFD use case perform. The DeploymentDescriptor (e.g., VNFD) shall support defining REQ-SMO- necessary input lifecycle parameters to enable the SMO (NFO) to Deployment flow for VNFD.0d assign corresponding values from input data provided to the SMO when VNFD use case requesting the O-Cloud DMS the NF Deployment lifecycle operation. The DeploymentDescriptor (e.g., VNFD) shall support defining necessary input lifecycle parameters to enable the SMO (NFO) REQ-SMO- Deployment flow for generate, based on orchestration runtime data, corresponding values VNFD.0e VNFD use case when requesting the O-Cloud DMS the NF Deployment lifecycle operation. Deployment flow for VNFD use case. Reference is The DeploymentDescriptor (e.g., VNFD) shall conform to a VNF provided to ETSI REQ-SMO-VNFD.0f Package and VNFD specification to enable the SMO (NFO) to check if GS NFV-IFA 011 an onboarded application package is valid. [3] as "VNF Package and VNFD specification".

# 6 Information Requirements for K8s-Aware Solution

## 6.1 DeploymentDescriptor with Application Service Descriptor
Application Service Descriptor (ASD) describes application metadata for the orchestrator to be used as input for deployment of an application workload that is described by the ASD. O-RAN-WG6.AppLCM-Deployment-R003-v02.00

### 6.1.1 Conventions
The attributes of the ASD information elements are described in the tables provided in section 6.1. Each table has 5 columns, with the following significance:
- The "Attribute" column provides the attribute name.
- The "Qualifier" column indicates whether the support of the attribute is mandatory, optional or conditional
from the SMO perspective.
- The "Cardinality" column contains the minimum and maximum cardinality of this information element
(e.g., 1, 0 … N, 1 … N). A cardinality range starting with 0 indicates that the attribute need not always be included and 1 indicates that the attribute needs to be always included.
- The "Type" column provides information on the type of the attribute values. It can be the name of an
Information Element. If a cell in the "Type" is marked as "Not specified", which indicates that the specification of the type is left to the data model.
- The "Description" provides a brief explanatory description, additional constraints, and examples.
The ASD is a complementary descriptor to the cloud-native deployment artifacts hence it contains design-time information provided by the application vendor that is not described/available in the cloud native artifacts. Such complementary information in the ASD can include specific infrastructure capabilities requirements for the deployment of the application software workload, constraints on the Kernel type needed, additional networking requirements needed beyond primary connectivity described in the cloud native artifacts, any special CNI (Container Network Interfaces), etc. ASD can support an application workload deployment on OS container infrastructures, and it is applicable to O-RAN NFs, xApps, and rApps. The following figure illustrates the representation of O-RAN OAM Application Packaging Model [WG10. Common Package] and shows how the Application Service Descriptor is positioned within the Application Package Model. ASD (DeploymentDescriptor) has ASD DeploymentItem (DeploymentItem) has Helm Chart (CloudNative DescriptorFile) May have DockerImage (ExecutableImage) Deployment related artifacts O-RAN-WG6.AppLCM-Deployment-R003-v02.00

### 6.1.2 Application Service Descriptor
For the O-RAN NFs the Application Service Descriptor (ASD) is a main top level descriptor template which consists of the attributes described in Table 6.2-1 below. Attribute Qualifier Cardinality Type Description asdId M 1 Identifier Identifier of this ASD information element. This attribute shall be globally unique. The format will be defined in the data model specification phase. asdVersion M 1 String Identifies the version of the ASD asdSchemaVersion M 1 Version Specifies the version of the ASD’s schema. Note 1: asdProvider M 1 String Provider of the application and of the ASD. asdApplicationName M 1 String Name to identify the application. Invariant for the application lifetime. asdApplicationVersion M 1 Version Specifies the version of the application. Note 2. asdApplicationInfoName M 0..1 String Human readable name for the application. Can change during the ASD lifetime. asdInfoDescription M 0..1 String Human readable description of the application. Can change during the ASD lifetime. asdExtCpd M 0..N ExtCpd Describes the externally exposed connection points of the application. enhancedClusterCapabilities M 0..1 EnhancedClus A list of expected capabilities of the target deployment terCapabilities cluster to aid placement of the application on a suitable cluster. deploymentItems M 1..N DeploymentIt Cloud native deployment artifacts associated with the em application. asdInvariantId M 1 Identifier Identifier of this descriptor in a version independent manner. This attribute is invariant across versions of ASD. It is in UUID format as specified in RFC 4122 Note 1: Version change when a change is made to any one of the ASD attributes. Note 2: Version value change when software or ASD values changes

### 6.1.3 Deployment Item (DeploymentItems) Information Element
The CloudNativeDescriptorFile defined in [WG10. Common Package] is realized by the deploymentItems IE which has the DeploymentItems structure described in Table 6.3-1 below. DeploymentItems IE describes the type of cloud native artifact, its order of deployment in case multiple cloud native artifacts are employed with the same ASD, and the list of parameters that can be parameterized in this cloud native deployment artifact at deployment time. .Attribute Qualifier Cardinality Type Description O-RAN-WG6.AppLCM-Deployment-R003-v02.00 deploymentItemId M 1 Identifier The identifier of this deployment item artifactType M 1 String Specifies the artifact type. One of following values can be chosen: "helm_chart", "helmfile", "crd", "terraform". artifactId M 1 String Unique reference to a deployment item (cloud native deployment artifact). It can be a URI or file path. deploymentOrder M 0..1 Integer Specifies the deployment order of the deployment item. A lower value specifies that the deployment item belongs to an earlier deployment stage, i.e., needs to be installed prior to a deployment item with higher deploymentOrder values. If not specified, the deployment of the deployment itemt can be done in arbitrary order and decided by the orchestrator. lifecycleParameters M 0..N String The list of parameters that can be overridden at deployment time (e.g., the list of parameters in the values.yaml which can be overridden at deployment time) Note 1: An initial list of artifactType. Other type of artifact is for further study

### 6.1.4 External connection point (asdExtCpd) Information Element
ExtCpd describes application exposing endpoints to enable orchestrators to string together or optimally place linked applications. Attribute Qualifier Cardinality Content Description id M 1 String The identifier of this ExtCpdData description M 1 String Describes the service exposed. virtualLinkRequirement M 1 String Refers in an abstract way to the network that the ExtCpd shall be exposed for (ex: OAM, EndUser, backhaul, LI, etc). The intent is to enable a network operator to identify which extCpd was designed to be connected to which VPN. . networkInterfaceRealizati M 0..1 NetworkInte Details container implementation specific requirements onRequirements rfaceRealiza on the NetworkAttachmentDefinition. See Note 1 & 2. tionRequire ments inputParamMappings M 0..1 ExtCpd.Para Information on what parameters is required to be mMappings provided to the deployment tools for the asdExtCpd instance. resourceMapping M 0..1 String Resource name for the cloud native resource manifest, as specified in the cloud native descriptor declaring the network interface (e.g., in the helm.chart, for the: service, ingress or pod resource). Enables, together with knowledge on namespace, the orchestrator to lookup the runtime data related to the extCpd. Note 1: Applies only for ExtCpd representing secondary network interfaces in a POD. Note 2: Several ExtCpd may refer to same additional network interface requirements.

### 6.1.5 NetworkInterfaceRealizationRequirements Information Element
NetworkInterfaceRealizationRequirements IE describes details related to secondary networks that attach the OS containers to the logical or physical networks. O-RAN-WG6.AppLCM-Deployment-R003-v02.00 Attribute Qualifier Cardinality Content Description trunkMode M 0..1 ”false” or “true” If not present or set to”false”, means that this interface shall connect to single network. If set to ”true” then the network interface shall be a trunk interface (connects to multiple VLANS). ipam M 0..1 "infraProvided", "orchestrated", The default value ("infraProvided") means "userManaged" that the CNI specifies how IPAM is done and assigns the IP address to the pod interface. interfaceType M 0..1 "kernel.netdev", "direct.userdriver", This attribute is applicable for passthrough "direct.kerneldriver", "direct.bond", and memif interfaces. Value default value is "userspace ”kernel.netdev”. interfaceOptions M 0..N "virtio", Alternative vNIC configurations the network "memif" interface is verified to work with. interfaceRedundancy M 0..1 "infraProvided", ”infraProvided” The application sees one vNIC, but the infrastructure provides "left", "right", redundant access to the network via both switch planes. For interface of type "activeActiveBond", kernel.netdev the redundancy is provided by "activePassiveBond", the vSwitch or Linux bonding. For " activePassivel3", interfaces of type direct, it requires that the physical NIC is connected to both switch planes (a.k.a. smartNIC). Thus, it imposes hardware requirements on the infrastructure. For interface of type userspace redundancy handled by a DPDK-OVS or VPP vSwitch ”left” and ”right” indicates a vNIC connected non-redundantly to the network via one specific (left or right) switchplane. All other attributes indicate a mated vNIC pair in the Pod, one connecting to the network via left switchplane and the other connecting to the network via the right switchplane, and with application using them together as a redundant network interface using a particular redundancy method that need to be accomodated in the node infrastructure. "activeActiveBond": Requires a static multi- chassis LAG in active-active mode from the infrastructure. Typically corresponds to bonding mode-2 “balance-xor” "activePassiveBond": The interfaces are bonded in active-passive mode in the application with move of bond MAC address. No specific requirements on DC fabric. Typically corresponds to bonding mode-1 “active-backup” "activePassivel3": Application moves its IP address by attaching it to one of the two MACs by use of GARP messages. Editor's note: Change the link to reference section https://nfvwiki.etsi.org/index.php?title=Cni.. nicOptions M 0..N "i710", nics a direct user space driver the application is verified to work with. The "e810", content aligned with ETSI HPC registry Editor's note: Change the link to reference "mlx-cx5", section https://nfvwiki.etsi.org/index.php?title=Cni. "mlx-cx6" O-RAN-WG6.AppLCM-Deployment-R003-v02.00

### 6.1.6 ExtCpdParamMappings Information Element
ExtCpdParamMappings IE describes required information on what parameters to be provided to the deployment tools for the ExtCpd instance. Attribute Qualifier Cardinality Content Description loadbalancerIP M 0..1 String When present, this attribute specifies the name of the deployment artifact input parameter through which the orchestrator can configure the loadbalancerIP parameter of the K8s service or ingress controller that the ExtCpd represents. Note 2 externalIPs M 0..N String When present, this attribute specifies the name of the deployment artifact input parameter through which the orchestrator can configure the extermalIPs parameter of the K8s service or ingress controller, or the pod network interface annotation, that the ExtCpd represents. The param name and provided IP address(es) value will be passed to the deployment tool when deploying the DeploymentArtifacts. Note 2 nadNames M 0..N String These attributes specify, for an ExtCpd representing a secondary network interface, the name(s) of the deployment artifact input parameter(s) through which the orchestrator can provide the names of the network attachment definitions (NADs) the orchestrator has created as base for the network interface the ExtCpd represents. It is expected that the NADs themselves have been created prior to the deployment of the deployment artifacts. Note 1,2,3 nadNamespace M 0..1 String Specifies, for an ExtCpd representing a secondary network interface, the name of the deployment artifact input parameter through which the orchestrator can provide the namespace where the NADs are located. Attribute may be omitted if the namespace is same as the application namespace. Note 2 Note 1: When the ExtCpd represent a networkRedundant/mated pair of sriov interfaces, there are references to 2 or 3 related NADs needed to be passed, while for other interface types only one NAD reference is needed to be passed. Note 2: The format of the Content strings is specific for each different orchestration templating technology used (Helm, Teraform, etc.). Currently only a format for use with Helm charts is suggested: "<helmchartname>:[<subchartname>.] 0 ... N[<parentparamname>.] 0 … N<paramname>”. Whether the optional parts of the format are present depends on how the parameter is declared in the helm chart. An example is: "chartName:subChart1.subChart2.subChart3.Parent1.Parent2.Parent3.parameter". Note 3: A direct attached (passthrough) network interface, such as an sriov interface, attaches to a network via only one of the two switch planes in the infrastructure. When using a direct attached network interface one therefore commonly in a pod uses a mated pair of sriov network attachments, where each interface attaches same network but via different switchplane. The application uses the mated pair of network interfaces as a single logical “swith-path-redundant” network O-RAN-WG6.AppLCM-Deployment-R003-v02.00 interface – and this is represented by a single ExtCpd. Also, there is a case where a third “bond” attachment interface is used in the pod, bonding the two direct interfaces so that the application does not need to handle the redundancy issues – application just uses the bond interface. In this case all three attachments are together making up a logical “switch-path-redundant” network interface represented by a single ExtCpd. When three NADs are used in the ExtCpd the NAD implementing the bond attachment interface is provided through the parameter indicated in the third place in the nadNames attribute.

### 6.1.7 EnhancedClusterCapabilities Information Element
EnhancedClusterCapabilities IE describes information which is used to aid placement of the application service on a suitable cluster. Attribute Qualifier Cardinality Content Description minKernelVersion M 1 String Describes the minimal required Kernel version, e.g., 4.15.0. Coded as displayed by linux command uname –r requiredKernelModules M 0..N String Required kernel modules are coded as listed by linux lsmod command, e.g., ip6_tables, cryptd, nf_nat etc. conflictingKernelModules M 0..N String Kernel modules, which must not be present in the target environment. The kernel modules are coded as listed by linux lsmod command, e.g., ip6_tables, cryptd, nf_nat etc. Example: Linux kernel SCTP module, which may conflict with use of proprietary user space SCTP stack provided by the application. r equiredCustomResources M 0..N Structure List the required custom resource types in the target (inlined) environment, identifying each by the "kind" and "apiVersion" field in the K8S resource manifests and in the application. The list shall include those custom resource types which are not delivered with the application. Example: requiredCustomResources: -{kind: "Redis", apiVersion: "kubedb.com/v1alpha1"} >kind M 0..1 String Kind of the custom resource >apiVersion M 0..1 String apiVersion of the custom resource clusterLabels M 0..N String This attribute indicates the required O-Cloud Node Cluster capabilities. These can indicate special infrastructure capabilities (e.g., NW acceleration, GPU compute, etc.). The intent of these O-Cloud Node Cluster capabilities is to serve as a set of values that can support the SMO in application placement decisions. See note 1. clusterLabels follow the Kubernetes label key-value- nomenclature [5] . This attribute should use the standardized values for the O-RAN O-Cloud Node Cluster capabilities [reference tbd], the existing values for node features [6], and any new capabilities identified in O-RAN s pecifications and allows also vendor-specific extensions. requiredPlugin M 0..N Structure A list of the names and versions of the required K8s plugin (inlined) (e.g., multus v3.8) >requiredPluginName M 0..1 String The names of the required K8s plugin (e.g., multus) >requiredPluginVersion M 0..1 String The version of the required plugin (e.g., 3.8) Note 1: The SMO uses the set of standardized capabilities to identify O-Cloud Node cluster capabilities required in the DeploymentDescriptors and to match them to the capabilities available in the O-Cloud. O-RAN-WG6.AppLCM-Deployment-R003-v02.00

### 6.1.8 Metadata
> NOTE: Content is expected in future versions of the present document.

### 6.1.9 Security
> NOTE: Content is expected in future versions of the present document.

### 6.1.10 Resource Requirements
> NOTE: Content is expected in future versions of the present document.

### 6.1.11 DeploymentItems
> NOTE: Content is expected in future versions of the present document.

### 6.1.12 Other
> NOTE: Content is expected in future versions of the present document.

## 6.2 DeploymentItem

### 6.2.1 Deployment Sequencing
> NOTE: Content is expected in future versions of the present document.

### 6.2.2 Lifecycle Requirements
> NOTE: Content is expected in future versions of the present document.
O-RAN-WG6.AppLCM-Deployment-R003-v02.00

# 7 Information Requirements for ETSI-based Solution

## 7.1 DeploymentDescriptor
> NOTE: Content is expected in future versions of the present document.

## 7.2 DeploymentItems
> NOTE: Content is expected in future versions of the present document.

# 8 Formatting Recommendations

## 8.1 CSAR
> NOTE: Content is expected in future versions of the present document.

## 8.2 SOL004
> NOTE: Content is expected in future versions of the present document.

# 9 Recommendations

## 9.1 Introduction
This TR is structured in a modular fashion organized by major topics and the following sections provide relevant recommendations by topic.

## 9.2 Recommendation for Deploy flow use case & requirements
The deployment flow use case for ASD is recommended to be incorporated into the Cloudification & Orchestration Use Case and Requirements document. Some part of the flow is relevant to WG1 & WG10 OAM Architecture document. Some part of the flow is relevant to WG6 for interaction between NFO & DMS. O-RAN-WG6.AppLCM-Deployment-R003-v02.00 The deployment flow based on ASD does not show interactions between NFO & DMS beyond those that are just stating “request to deploy”. So, it is not clear what needs to be documented in the Orchestration Use Case Specification. This still has yet to be resolved. SUMMARY: The recommendation from this TR is that Deployment Flow Use cases should go into the Cloudification & Orchestration Use Case and Requirements specification.

## 9.3 Recommendation for DeploymentDescriptor based on ASD
This is described in Clause 6.1 and Clause 6.2 The team producing this TR has considered four options for where that content might be placed: (1) O2 DMS Interface Spec (new) WG6 Stage 2 – The O2 DMS Interface Specification would be a sister document in WG6 to the existing O2 IMS Interface Specification. It would be a new document which would also be the home for other O2 DMS topics, such as O2 DMS fault and O2 DMS performance management. So, it could be created for DeploymentDescription as well as the other O2 DMS topic areas. (2) WG10 App Pkg Spec [out of place wrong WG] Another possibility is to put into the WG10 App Package Specification; however, it is not proper working group. (3) O2 DMS LCM - O2 DeploymentDesc for ASD (new WG6 document) A new separate dedicated for ASD modelling could be an option. (4) O2 DMS K8s Profile [this is a Stage 2 material being put into Stage 3 document] Incorporating the material into the Stage 3 O2 DMS K8s Profile document. The problem with that is that it is stage 2 material going into a stage 3 document. SUMMARY: This TR recommends that a new specification is created for the ASD content as described in Option #3. The content in Clause 6 from the present document can be used as the seed content and baseline for the new ASD specification.

## 9.4 Recommendation for DeploymentDescriptor based on VNFD
Recommendation for Deployment Flow for VNFD Use Case Some part of the flow is relevant to WG1 & WG10 OAM Architecture document Some part of the flow is relevant to WG6 for interaction between NFO & DMS. SUMMARY: The recommendation from this TR is that Deployment Flow for Deployment Descriptor based on VNF use cases should go into the Cloudification & Orchestration Use Case and Requirements specification. O-RAN-WG6.AppLCM-Deployment-R003-v02.00 Revision History Table – Revision History Date Revis Description ion July , 02.00 Incorporated CR to update Security and Recommendations section: 2023 - NOK-2023.06.30-CR0060-WG6 AppLCMDeployment-v01.00 Mar 08, 00.10 Addition of Deployment Flow for VNFD Use Case
- Clause 5.2.1 and Clause 5.2.2 addition of Deployment Flow for VNFD Use Case
June 02, 00.01 Initial Draft Discussion versions O-RAN-WG6.AppLCM-Deployment-R003-v02.00 History History of the Document Table - History of the Document Date Revision Description

## 2023.03 01.00 Published as Final version 01.00


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG6.AAL FEC.R004-v04.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG6.AAL FEC.R004-v04.00 O-RAN Work Group 6 Acceleration Abstract Layer FEC Profiles   Testing Template"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols, and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in [7] apply.

## 3.2 Symbols

For the purposes of the present document, the symbols given in apply: Not applicable

## 3.3 Abbreviations

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviationsapply:

- **AAL**: Acceleration Abstraction Layer
- **AALi**: Acceleration Abstraction Layer interface
- **AAL-LPU**: Accelleration Abstraction Layer Logical Processing Unit
- **CB**: Code Block
- **CNF**: Containerized Network Function
- **NF**: Network Function
- **O-CU**: O-RAN Centralized Unit
- **O-DU**: O-RAN Distributed Unit
- **O-RU**: O-RAN Radio Unit
- **OS**: Operating System
- **OSC**: O-RAN Software Community
- **TB**: Transport Block

# 4 Overview

## 4.1 Purpose

The AAL General Aspects and Principles is described in [7] including a high-level architecture of the AAL and definition of the AAL profiles. This document details the AAL specification consisting of the description of the interface, information models and requirements to implement an AALi, for the AAL_PUSCH_FEC and AAL_PDSCH_FEC Profiles, shown below in Figure 4.1-1and Figure 4.1-2.

## 4.2 Document Structure

This present document is structured as follows: chapter 4 presents the overview and main purpose of this specification. Chapter 5 presents the AAL Hardware Acceleration Management specification for the AAL_PUSCH_FEC and AAL_PDSCH_FEC Profiles. Chapter 6 presents the common AALi requirements for an AAL-LPU supporting one or more AAL_PUSCH_FEC and/or AAL_PDSCH_FEC Profiles.

# 5 AALi Configuraton and Management

The chapter defines the common configuration and management aspects of the AALi as they relate to the AAL_PUSCH_FEC and AAL_PDSCH_FEC profiles. The AALi configuration and management APIs are the API’s that an AAL application (O-DU) executes to configure and manage the AAL-LPU(s) that have been allocated to the application by the O-Cloud.

The below section describes the requirements of the AALi presented to the Application.

## 5.1 AAL Configuration and Management

## 5.2 Initalization and Configuration

As per sequence diagram in Chapter 4.1.1.3 in [7] the below list of high-level configuration and management interfaces shall be supported.

- Get Number of AAL LPU’s
- Get AAL LPU Fine Grain capabilities
- Setup and Allocate AAL LPU Queues
- Configure AAL LPU Queues

### 5.2.1 Get Number of AAL LPU’s

The AALi shall provide an interface to retrieve a count of the number of AAL-LPU’s available to be used by the application.

### 5.2.2 Get AAL-LPU Fine Grained Capabilities

The AALi shall provide an interface to retrieve the capabilities of an AAL-LPU. The capabilities that shall be reported by the AALi are defined in Table 5.2.2-1.

| Capability |
| --- |
| The AAL Profile(s) supported by this instance of the AAL-LPU, AAL_PUSCH_FEC or AAL_PDSCH_FEC. |
| Maximum number of AAL-LPU Queues Supported by this instance of the AAL-LPU |
| Number of AAL-LPU Queues Currently configured by this instance of the AAL-LPU |
| AAL-LPU State (started, stop) |
| AAL-LPU Queue Size restrictions if any. |
| AAL-LPU maximum priority if the AAL-LPU supports Queues Priorities. |
| Whether the AAL-LPU supports per-queue interrupts (If not supported poll mode must be supported) |
| Any memory alignment requirements on input and output buffers to the AAL-LPU |
| External Memory sizes available to the LPU, in the case of HARQ for AAL_PUSCH_FEC profile this would be the size of the HARQ memory available to store HARQ buffers in. This size shall be reported in kB. |
| Any AAL Profile Specific capabalities that are supported as defined in Table 6.1.1.1-1:  and |

### 5.2.3 Setup and Allocate AAL LPU Queues

The AALi shall provide an interface to setup and allocate AAL-LPU Queues.

### 5.2.4 Configure AAL-LPU Queues

The AALi shall provide an interface to configure the AAL-LPU’s queues setup from section 5.2.3. The AAL-LPU Queue configuration API shall support the configurations defined in Table 5.2.4-1.

| Queue Configuration |
| --- |
| The size of the queue to configure. This is the number of entries a queue can hold. |
| The priority of the queue if priority is supported. |
| AAL Profile that is supported, either AAL_PUSCH_FEC or AAL_PDSCH_FEC |

## 5.3 AAL-LPU Management and AAL-LPU Queue management

As per sequence diagram in Clause 5.3.2 in [8] the below list defines the high-level AAL-LPU and AAL-LPU Queue management interfaces shall be supported by an AAL Implementation.

- Start AAL-LPU
- AAL-LPU Queue Start
- AAL-LPU Queue Stop
- AAL-LPU Stop
- Close AAL-LPU

## 5.4. AAL Statistics

The AALi shall provide an interface to retrieve statistics from an AAL-LPU Device and/or AAL-LPU Queue. The statistics shall include error counts. In addition, the AAL Implementation shall provide an interface to reset statistic counters in the AAL-LPU.

# 6 AAL Profile Specifications

## 6.1 Profile Specifications Overview

This section contains information for each supported AAL profile . A profile may provide several APIs for specific profile configuration in addition to the general AAL configuration APIs. Profile specific configuration shall be applied on a per queue basis and only for functionality that cannot be changed at run time. Each profile shall define a capabilities list that will be used to define the operations supported by the AAL-LPU.

### 6.1.1 Operation Representation

Operations offloaded to the AAL-LPU are represented by a single operation context that shall include all necessary information required by the AAL Implementation to process the operation.

The operation context defines the operation type as supported by the AAL Profile. It includes an operation status, a reference to the operation specific data, which can vary in size and content depending on the operation/profile being provisioned. Application software is responsible for specifying all the operation-specific fields that are then used by the AAL-LPU to process the requested operation.

Scheduling of AAL operations on an application data path is performed using a burst oriented asynchronous API set. A queue on an AAL-LPU accepts a burst of operations (1 to N number of operations) using enqueue API. The enqueue API will place the operations to be processed on the AAL-LPU’s hardware input. The dequeue API will retrieve any processed operations available from the queue on the AAL-LPU.

### 6.1.2 Profile Capabaillities

Each Profile has a set of capabilities which capture the functions supported by each implementation. This includes optional features such a interrupts and debug interfaces. The AAL shall provide an API to report the capabilities of the underlying AAL implementation as per clause 5.2.2.

### 6.1.3 Memory Management

The AAL Implementation shall provide any profile specific memory management (examples allocate and free memory) as required by the AAL Implementation.

## 6.2 O-DU AAL PDSCH FEC Profile Specification

As per O-RAN AAL GAnP document [7] the PDSCH FEC Profile shall support

- CRC Generation
- LDPC Encoding
- PDSCH Rate Matching

### 6.2.1 AAL FEC PDSCH Profile Capabilities

The AAL FEC PDSCH Profile interface shall support operations on both a code block (CB) and a transport block (TB) basis.

An operation can be performed on one CB at a time "CB-mode". An operation can be performed on one or multiple CBs that logically belong to a TB "TB-mode".  The input data is the CB or TB input to the encoder. The output data is the ratematched CB or TB data.

The input and output buffers shall be allocated by the application according to 6.1.3.

The input buffer shall contain the input code block or transport block data the operation is to be performed on.

The output buffer is mandatory and is the encoded CB(s). In CB-mode it contains the encoded CB of size e (E in 3GPP TS 38.212 section 6.2.5). In TB-mode it contains multiple contiguous encoded CBs of size ea or eb. The output buffer is allocated by the application with enough room for the output data.

The following modes of operation shall be supported:

CB-mode: one CB (with CRC24B appended to the output buffer if required)

CB-mode: one CB making up one TB (with CRC16 or CRC24A appended to the output buffer if required)

TB-mode: one or more CB of a partial TB (with CRC24B(s) appended to the output buffer if required)

TB-mode: one or more CB of a complete TB (with CRC16, CRC24A and CRC24B(s) appended to the output buffer if required)

In TB-mode, the input data length shall equal the total size of the CBs inclusive of any CRC24A and CRC24B..

In the case of a partial  TB  the AAL Application shall provide the index of the first CB in the group of CBs and the number of CBs in the group..

The number of CBs in the group should not be confused with c, the total number of CBs in the full TB (C as per 3GPP TS 38.212 section 5.2.2).

When using CB-mode, concatentation of the output code blocks into a transport block, is not performaned by the AAL Implementation.

The AAL_PDSCH_FEC Profile capabilities shall be reported to the application as per Table 5.2.2-1: AAL-LPU Capabilities . The AAL_PDSCH_FEC Profile capabilities are defined in Table 6.1.1.1-1: AAL_PDSCH_FEC Profile Capabilities, these capabilities shall be reported to the application andmay not be implemented by the AALi implementation. BG: a bit unlcear what’s being specified- the application function of AAL functions here.

#### 6.1.1.1 Summary of AAL_PDSCH_FEC Profile capabilities

Table 6.1.1.1-1 lists the AAL_PDSCH_FEC profile capabilities that shall be reported to the application.

| Capabilities |
| --- |
| Whether interrupts are supported by this AAL-LPU |
| What CRCs are supported (CRC24A, CRC24B, CRC16) |
| Support for input Scatter Gather |
| Support for concatenation of non-byte-aligned output code blocks |

### 6.2.2 AAL PDSCH FEC Profile Operations

The following parameters shall be supported by the AAL Implementation when offloading operations.

| Parameters |
| --- |
| The input TB or CB data. |
| The encoded rate matched TB or CB output buffer. |
| Capabilities selection for CRC Types required to be applied |
| Rate matching redundancy version [3GPP TS38.212, section 5.4.2] |
| LDPC Base graph 1 or LDPC Base graph 2.  [3GPP TS38.212, section 5.2.2] |
| Zc, LDPC lifting size. [3GPP TS38.212, section 5.2.2] |
| Ncb, length of the circular buffer in bits. [3GPP TS38.212, section 5.4.2.1] |
| Qm, modulation order {2,4,6,8}. [3GPP TS38.212, section 5.4.2.2] |
| Number of Filler bits, n_filler = K – K’ [3GPP TS38.212 section 5.2.2] |
| Whether transport block or code block applies to this operation. |

#### 6.2.2.1 CB-Mode Parameters

When using code block mode the following additional parameters shall be supported by the AALi implementation

| Parameters |
| --- |
| E, length after rate matching in bits. [3GPP TS38.212, section 5.4.2.1] |

#### 6.2.2.2 TB-Mode Parameters

| Description |
| --- |
| Ea, length after rate matching in bits, r < cab. [3GPP TS38.212, section 5.4.2.1] |
| Eb, length after rate matching in bits, r >= cab.  [3GPP TS38.212, section 5.4.2.1] |
| The total number of CBs in the TB or partial TB |
| The index of the first CB in the inbound mbuf data, default is 0 |
| cab, The number of CBs that use Ea before switching to Eb, [0:255] |

## 6.3 O-DU AAL PUSCH FEC Profile Specification

This section defines the AAL PUSCH FEC Profile specification. As per O-RAN AAL GAnP document [7] the AAL_PUSCH_FEC Profile shall upport the following functions

- PUSCH Rate De-matching
- LDPC Decoder
- CRC Check
NOTE:  the AAL_PUSCH_FEC Profile only supports PUSCH Forward Error Correction. It shall not include support for PUSCH UCI

### 6.3.1 AAL FEC PUSCH Profile Capabilities

The decode operations are invoked through enqueue and dequeue functions. The operation context defines the parameters used to configure the operation to be accelerated. These parameters are defined in 6.3.2.

The input and output buffers shall be allocated by the application according to 6.1.3.The input buffer shall contain the encoded CB data to be decoded and is the Virtual Circular Buffer data stream with null padding. Each byte in the input circular buffer is the LLR value of each bit of the original CB.

The output buffer shall contain the hard_output which is the decoded CBs of size K’ (CRC24A/B or CRC16 is the last 24bit or 16bits in each decoded CB. The AAL Implementation shall give the option to drop the CRC. Where CRC Drop is set then the CRC will not be present at the end of the buffer). In transport block mode the hard_output will contain the decoded transport block.

The AAL Implementation may support the optional soft output buffer which is an LLR rate matched output of size e (this is E as per 3GPP TS 38.212 section 6.2.5).

The AAL Implementation may support optional harq input buffer which is a buffer with the input to the HARQ combination function. If the AAL-LPU supports internal memory capability and is enabled, then the HARQ shall be  stored in the  AAL-LPU internal memory and shall not visible to the application.

The AAL Implementation may support the optional HARQ Combined output which is a buffer for the output of the HARQ combination function of the AAL-LPU. If the AAL-LPU supports internal memory capability and is enabled, then the  HARQ is stored in memory internal to the AAL-LPU and not visible to application.

As with the AAL PDSCH FEC Profile, the decode interface works on both a code block (CB) and a transport block (TB) basis.

The following modes of operation shall be supported:

CB-mode: one CB (CRC24B if required)

CB-mode: one CB making up one TB (CRC16 or CRC24A if required)

TB-mode: one or more CB making up a partial TB (CRC24B(s) if required)

TB-mode: one or more CB making up a complete TB (CRC16, CRC24A and CRC24B(s) if required)

The buffer length is inclusive of CRC24A/B where present and is equal the code block size K’.

The first CB Virtual Circular Buffer (VCB) index is given by r but the number of the remaining CB VCBs shall be calculated  by the AAL implementation.

The input buffer length shall equal the total size of the CBs inclusive of any CRC24A and CRC24B in case they were appended by the application.

#### 6.3.1.1 LLR Compression

The AAL PUSCH FEC Profile may support compression of the LLR bits used for the HARQ data. This improves PCIE memory bandwidth and memory storage. LLR compression support shall be reported through the AAL to the application..

#### 6.3.1.2 Summary of AAL_PUSCH_FEC Profile capabilities

Table 6.3.1.2-1 lists the AAL_PUSCH_FEC profile capabilities that shall be reported to the application.

| Capabilities |
| --- |
| LLR size in bits. Each LLR is a two’s complement number. This can be AAL-LPU implementation specific. |
| LLR numbers of decimals bit for arithmetic representation. This can be AAL-LPU implementation specific. |
| Type of CRC Support (CRC24A, CRC24B, CRC16) |
| CRC Dropping supported and configurable |
| HARQ Combine input enabling and disabling |
| HARQ Combine output enabling and disabling |
| Soft Output enabling and disabling |
| LDPC Iteration stop enabling and disabling, that is stopping on successful decode (syndrome check) |
| Whether Scatter Gather of input buffers is supported |
| Support for concatenation of non byte aligned output code blocks |
| If an AAL-LPU supports input/output HARQ compression. Compressed would be packed 6bit LLRs as opposed to 6bit LLR per byte |
| If an AAL-LPU supports input LLR compression. Packed 6bit LLR inputs. |
| If an AAL-LPU supports HARQ input to/from AAL-LPU's internal memory. |
| If an AAL-LPU supports HARQ output to/from AAL-LPU's internal memory. |
| If an AAL-LPU includes LLR filler bits in the circular buffer for HARQ memory. If not enabled, it is assumed the filler are not in HARQ memory and handled directory by the LDPC decoder. |

### 6.3.2 AAL PUSCH FEC Profile Operations

The following parameters shall be supported by the AAL Implementation when offloading operations.

| Description |
| --- |
| The input Virtual Circular Buffer for this code block, one LLR per bit of the original CB or TB. See Error! Reference source not found. |
| The hard decisions buffer for the decoded output, size K’ for each CB when in code block mode, otherwise TB or partial TB output. See Error! Reference source not found. |
| The soft LLR output LLR stream buffer - optional |
| The HARQ combined LLR stream input buffer - optional. See Error! Reference source not found. |
| The HARQ combined LLR stream output buffer - optional. See Error! Reference source not found. |
| Optional capabilities configuration as per |
| Rate matching redundancy version [3GPP TS38.212, section 5.4.2.1] |
| The maximum number of iterations to perform in decoding CB in this operation - input |
| The number of iterations that were performed in decoding CB in this decode operation - output |
| LDPC Base graph 1 or  2. [3GPP TS38.212, section 5.2.2] |
| Zc, LDPC lifting size. [3GPP TS38.212, section 5.2.2] |
| Ncb, length of the circular buffer in bits. [3GPP TS38.212, section 5.4.2.1] |
| Qm, modulation order {1,2,4,6,8}. [3GPP TS38.212, section 5.4.2.2] |
| Number of Filler bits, n_filler = K-K’ [3GPP TS38.212 section 5.2.2] |
| Code Block or Transport Block |

#### 6.3.2.1 CB-Mode Parameters

When CB-Mode is used, the following additional parameters shall be suppored

| Description |
| --- |
| Rate matching output sequence length in bits or LLRs. [3GPP TS38.212, section 5.4.2.1] |

#### 6.3.2.2 TB-Mode Parameters

When TB-Mode is used, the following additional parameters shall be supported

| Description |
| --- |
| Ea, length after rate matching in bits, r < cab. [3GPP TS38.212, section 5.4.2.1] |
| Eb, length after rate matching in bits, r >= cab. [3GPP TS38.212, section 5.4.2.1] |
| The total number of CBs in the TB or partial TB |
| The index of the first CB in the inbound mbuf data, default is 0 |
| cab, The number of CBs that use Ea before switching to Eb, [0:255] |

## 6.4 AAL Profile API Definitions

O-RAN and the O-RAN Software Community[7] has published a normative definition of the AAL FEC API’s. The AAL FEC API definitions are based on the WG6 AAL FEC profile requirements in [7] and this document. Refer to AAL Repository  [9] in the OSC for APIs decription details. This current version uses the git tag version oran_e_maintenance_release_v1.0

### 6.4.1 O-RAN AAL FEC API Terminology

The O-RAN AAL FEC API definition is based on DPDK, as such the naming convention and coding styles follow DPDK guidelines [i2]. This section gives an overview of the DPDK terminology mapping to the profile specification[9].

| AAL FEC Profile Terminology | AAL FEC API Terminology |
| --- | --- |
| AAL-LPU | Device ID |
| AAL Queue | Queue ID |
| AAL_PDSCH_FEC | RTE_BBDEV_OP_LDPC_ENC |
| AAL_PUSCH_FEC | RTE_BBDEV_OP_LDPC_DEC |

#### 6.4.1.1 Configuration and Management

The configuration and management interfaces are defined in rte_bbdev.h in the O-RAN AAL Speciffication repo [9]

#### 6.4.1.2 FEC Profile Operations

The AAL profile operations are defined in rte_bbdev_op.h in the the O-RAN AAL Speciffication repo [9]. The mapping of profile definition to the API implementation for the AAL_PDSCH_FEC Profile parameters as defined previously in Table 6.2.2-1 is demonstrated below in

| Parameters from Table 6.2.2-1: 6.2.2-1 | DPDK rte_bbdev_op_ldpc_enc structure data field |
| --- | --- |
| The input TB or CB data. | struct rte_bbdev_op_data input |
| The encoded rate matched TB or CB output buffer. | struct rte_bbdev_op_data output |
| Capabilities selection for CRC Types required to be applied | /** Flags from rte_bbdev_op_ldpcenc_flag_bitmasks */ uint32_t op_flags; |
| Rate matching redundancy version [3GPP TS38.212, section 5.4.2] | uint8_t rv_index; |
| LDPC Base graph 1 or LDPC Base graph 2.  [3GPP TS38.212, section 5.2.2] | uint8_t basegraph; |
| Zc, LDPC lifting size. [3GPP TS38.212, section 5.2.2] | uint16_t z_c; |
| Ncb, length of the circular buffer in bits. [3GPP TS38.212, section 5.4.2.1] | uint16_t n_cb; |
| Qm, modulation order {2,4,6,8}. [3GPP TS38.212, section 5.4.2.2] | uint8_t q_m; |
| Number of Filler bits, n_filler = K – K’ [3GPP TS38.212 section 5.2.2] | uint16_t n_filler; |
| Whether transport block or code block applies to this operation. | /** [0 - TB : 1 - CB] */ uint8_t code_block_mode; |


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG6.AAL-Common-API-R004-v10.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG6.AAL Common API-R004-v10.00 Technical Specification"
---

## 5.3 AALI-C-App Operations and Events Sequence and State Diagram ........................................................................... 6 2
Chapter 1 Introductory Material

## 1.1 Scope
This Technical Specification has been produced by the O-RAN Alliance. The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within O-RAN and may change following formal O-RAN approval. Should the O-RAN Alliance modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released by O- RAN with an identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as follows: Release x.y.z where: x the first digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e., technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc. (the initial approved document will have x=01). y the second digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been incorporated in the document. z the third digit included only in working versions of the document indicating incremental changes during the editing process. The present document describes the functional requirements for the Hardware Accelerator Manager (HAM) and interface requirements for the AAL Common API (i.e., AALI-C-Mgmt and AALI-C-App interfaces). It also provides the specification of the AALI-C-Mgmt and AALI-C-App interfaces as well as the information elements exchanged over those interfaces.

## 1.2 References
[1] 3GPP-TR-21.905: “Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications”. [2] Void [3] O-RAN O-RAN.WG1.O-RAN-Architecture-Description [4] O-RAN O2 Interface General Aspects and Principles [5] O-RAN Cloudification and Orchestration Use Cases and Requirements for O-RAN Virtualized RAN [6] O-RAN O2ims Interface Specification [7] O-RAN Acceleration Abstraction Layer General Aspects and Principles [8] O-RAN Acceleration Abstraction Layer FEC Profiles [9] O-RAN Acceleration Abstraction Layer High-PHY Profiles [10] 3GPP TS 28.620: Telecommunication management; Fixed Mobile Convergence (FMC); Federated Network Information Model (FNIM); Umbrella Information Model (UIM)) [11] 3GPP TS 28.622: Telecommunication management; Generic Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS) [12] 3GPP TS 32.156: " Model repertoire". [13] OAS 3.0 Specification: OpenAPI Specification [14] ITU-T X.731: Information Technology - Opens Systems Interconnection: State Management Function [15] IETF RFC 4122: “A Universally Unique IDentifier (UUID) URN Namespace” [16] IETF RFC 3986: IETF RFC 3986: "Uniform Resource Identifier (URI): Generic Syntax"

## 1.3 Definitions and Abbreviations

### 1.3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in O-RAN Acceleration Abstraction Layer General Aspects and Principles [7] apply. UUID Universally Unique Identifier [15] URI Uniform Resource Identifier [16]

### 1.3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in the O-RAN Acceleration Abstraction Layer General Aspects and Principles [7] apply. There are no additional abbreviations that are required aside from those in O-RAN Acceleration Abstraction Layer General Aspects and Principles [7]. Chapter 2 Overview

## 1.2 AALI-C-Mgmt: Interface used for common administrative operations, actions, and events
between the O-Cloud IMS and the HW Accelerator Manager (HAM) for resources exposed by this interface. The IMS provides the O2 interface towards the SMO. The HAM exposes the AALI-C-Mgmt interface towards IMS.

## 1.3 AALI-C-App: Interface used for common operations/actions/events toward an AAL Application
for resources exposed by this interface. These operations are between the AAL Implementation and the AAL Application (AAL-App). 2. AALI-P: A set of AAL-Profile specific interfaces dependent upon the AAL-Profile selected e.g., FEC. The AALI-P interfaces are specified in FEC[8] and High-PHY specifications [9]. 3. O2IMS: The O2 IMS exposes the AAL functionality required to configure, manage and orchestrate the AAL implementation in an O-Cloud as defined in the AAL GAnP document[4]. See chapter 6 in the present document for details. The present document specifies the list of AALI-C-Mgmt and AALI-C-App interface operations and events, description with input/outputs, information models, object models, state transition diagrams and requirements.


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG6.AAL-GAnP-R004-v13.00 (1).md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG6.AAL-GAnP-R004-v13.00 Technical Specification"
---

# 17 Always 2 digits with leading zero if needed.
zz: the third digit-group included only in working versions of the document indicating incremental changes during the editing process. External versions never include the third digit-group. Always 2 digits with leading zero if needed. Modal verbs terminology In the present document "shall", "shall not", "should", "should not", "may", "need not", "will", "will not", "can" and "cannot" are to be interpreted as described in clause 3.2 of the O-RAN Drafting Rules (Verbal forms for the expression of provisions). "must" and "must not" are NOT allowed in O-RAN deliverables except when used in direct citation. 1. Scope This document defines O-RAN O-Cloud hardware accelerator interface functions and protocols for the O-RAN AAL interface. The document studies the functions conveyed over the interface, including configuration and management functions, procedures, operations and corresponding solutions, and identifies existing standards and industry work that can serve as a basis for O-RAN work. 2. References

# 14 VNF Interfaces Specification"
[5] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 019: "Network Function Virtualization (NFV); Acceleration Technologies; Acceleration

# 16 Resource Management Interface Specification; Release 3"
[6] 5G; NR; Physical Channels and Modulation 3GPP TS 38.211 v15.2.0 Release 15 [7] 5G; NR; Multiplexing and Channel Coding 3GPP TS 38.212 v15.2.0 Release 15 [8] LTE; E-UTRA Physical Channels and Modulation 3GPP TS 36.211 v15.2.0 Release 15 [9] LTE; E-UTRA Multiplexing and Channel Coding 3GPP TS36.212 v15.2.1 Release 15 [10] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 001: "Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV); Acceleration Technologies; Report on

# 22 Acceleration Technologies & Use Cases"
[11] O-RAN WG6 O2 General Aspects and Principles [12] O-RAN WG6 Cloudification and Orchestration Use Cases and Requirements for O-RAN Virtualized RAN [13] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 011: "Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV) Release 4; Management and Orchestration;

# 26 VNF Descriptor and Packaging Specification"
[14] ETSI GR NFV-IFA 046: "Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV) Release 5; Architectural Framework;

# 28 Report on NFV support for virtualisation of RAN"
[15] O-RAN WG6 AAL Common API R003 [16] O-RAN WG4 Control, User and Synchronization (CUS) Plane Specification

## 3.1 Terms
For the purpose of this document the terms and definitions given in O-RAN WG6 Cloudification and Orchestration Use Cases (UC) and Requirements for O-RAN Virtualized RAN [13], ETSI GS NFV-IFA 002 [4], and the following apply: Hardware (HW) Accelerator (HWA) is a specialized HW implementation that can offload processing from application(s) running on a General-Purpose Processor. The Hardware (HW) Accelerator is a physical Managed Element as defined in [13].
> NOTE: Examples of Hardware Accelerators include ASIC, FPGA, DSP and GPU.
> NOTE: Throughout this document, the term “Accelerator” and “Hardware (HW) accelerator” are used
interchangeably. Acceleration Abstraction Layer (AAL) specifies a common and consistent set of interfaces used by different entities to enable interaction with different types of HW Accelerators within an O-Cloud instance. AAL Implementation is a realization of an AAL including but not limited to the software libraries, drivers and the

# 14 Hardware Accelerator
Accelerated Function (AF) is a representation of a workload building block that an accelerator processes on behalf of an AAL Application within an O-RAN Network Function in an O-Cloud [1]. AAL Application (AAL-App) is defined as a workload that can offload Accelerated Functions to AAL-LPU(s).
> NOTE: Unless explicitly noted, the term Application refers to an AAL Application in AAL specifications.
> NOTE: Unless explicitly noted, the terms Application, NF Application, L2 Application, VNF/CNF, or NF workload
accessing the AAL in figures of this present document refers to an AAL Application. AAL Profile(s) (AAL-Profile) specify one or more Accelerated Functions that an accelerator processes on behalf of an AAL Application within an O-RAN Network Function in an O-Cloud [1].

# 23 AAL Operations actions supported by the AAL interface.
AAL Profile Instance (AAL-Profile-Instance) is an executing instance of an AAL profile that can be used by an AAL Application via the AAL interface. The AAL-Profile-Instance executes within an AAL-LPU execution environment. AAL Logical Processing Unit (AAL-LPU) is a logical representation of resources within an instance of a HW Accelerator (example: there can be multiple processing units or subsystems on a hardware accelerator, or resource partitioning (hard – dedicated resources, soft – soft resources) and these can be logically represented as a AAL Logical

# 29 Processing Unit)
AAL Profile Queue is a logical grouping construct and may be used by the AAL Application to group operations together. For example, AAL Profile Queues may access specific resources (compute, I/O) of an AAL-LPU executing specific AAL

# 32 Profile Instances(s).
AAL Profile Queue ID is a unique index used to designate the AAL Profile Queue in function exposed by specific AAL profile.
> NOTE: An AAL Profile Queue or an AAL Profile Queue ID does not reflect a HW design or an AAL Implementation
specification HW Accelerator Manager (HAM) is an acceleration management function, that provides management capabilities for the HW Accelerator(s) and the AAL-LPU's in the O-Cloud Node. Management capabilities include but not limited to lifecycle management, configuration, updates/upgrades and failure handling of the HWA and the LPUs. The HAM may use the services of an external software repository to securely transfer approved software artifacts, for example FW/SW images, binaries, libraries and configuration data. The specification of a software repository and the communication with the HAM are outside the scope of O-RAN specifications. The HW Accelerator Manager is considered an O-Cloud

# 43 Platform Software.

## 3.2 Symbols

## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in [i.1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in [i.1] .

# 6 AF Accelerated Function

# 7 AAL Acceleration Abstraction Layer

# 8 AAL-App Acceleration Abstraction Layer - Application

# 9 AAL-LPU Acceleration Abstraction Layer - LPU

# 10 AALI-C Acceleration Abstraction Layer Interface-Common

# 11 AALI-C-Mgmt Acceleration Abstraction Layer Interface-Common-Management

# 12 AALI-C-App Acceleration Abstraction Layer Interface-Common-Application

# 13 AALI-P Acceleration Abstraction Layer Interface-Profile

# 14 BF Beam-forming

# 15 CNF Cloudified Network Function
DFT/iDFT Discrete Fourier Transform / Inverse Discrete Fourier Transform

# 17 DMS Deployment Management Services

# 18 FCAPS Fault, Configuration, Accounting, Performance, Security

# 19 FEC Forward Error Correction
FFT/iFFT Fast Fourier Transform / inverse Fast Fourier Transform

# 21 HWA Hardware Accelerator

# 22 IMS Infrastructure Management Services

# 23 LPU Logical Processing Unit

# 24 RB Resource Block

# 25 SMO Service Management and Orchestration

# 26 UC Use Case

# 27 VNF Virtual Network Function
4. General Aspects

## 4.1 Hardware Acceleration
In the design of digital computing systems, ranging from general-purpose processors to fully customized hardware, there is a tradeoff between flexibility and efficiency, with efficiency increasing by orders of magnitude when any given application is implemented in hardware. The range of implementation options includes general-purpose processors (GPPs) such as CPUs, more specialized processors such as Graphics Processing Units (GPUs), functions implemented on field-programmable gate arrays (FPGAs), and fixed-functions implemented on application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs). Hardware accelerator is a specialized HW implementation that can offload processing from application(s) running on the General-Purpose Processor (GPP). Any transformation of data or computation can be implemented purely in software running on a generic CPU, or purely in a specialized hardware accelerator, or using a combination of both. The implementation of computing tasks in hardware to improve performance is known as hardware acceleration. The hardware acceleration can be implemented in the form of lookaside or inline mode where in the former case, the host CPU invokes an accelerator for data processing and receives the result after processing is complete, while in the latter case, the accelerator, after being invoked by the host CPU with the request for data processing, completes the processing request of data received from a source node and directly transfers the post- processed data to a destination node, where the source or destination node can be different than host CPU (e.g., an Ethernet Interface). The principle of hardware acceleration and functional offloading in lookaside mode and inline is illustrated in Figure 4.1-1, allowing the application to offload workload to a hardware accelerator and to continue performing other work in parallel- this could be to continue to execute other software tasks in parallel or to sleep and wait for the accelerator hardware to complete. The hardware acceleration boosts application performance in environments with compute-intensive, deeply pipelined, massively parallel operations as shown in Figure 4.1-1. This model requires the support of two operations, one for initiating the offload and another for retrieving the operation once complete. A A W it h o u t h

# C P U
W it h h a r L o o k a s id

# C P U
c c e le r a t o r In lin e

# C P U
c c e le r a t o r a d e r w d a w r a e r a e a c c e F u n c 1 c c e le r F u n c 1 F u n c 1 le a r a t io t io n – n – m s e r ia l e a s s iv e ly F F u n c 3 F F u n c 3 x e p u n u n c a c c u t io n F u n c 2 r a lle l e x F u n c 4 F u n c 4 e c u t F u n c F u n c F u n c

# 3 4 5
io n w it h in a n d a c r o s s f u n c t io n s F u n c A c c e le r a t o r h a n d le s c o m p u t e -in t e n s iv e , d e e p p ip e lin e d , m a s s iv e ly p a r a lle l o p e r a t io n s . T h e C h a n d le s o t h e r o p e ra tio n s F u n c ly

# P U
Figure 4.1-1: Example illustration of the effect of hardware acceleration on functional compute performance.

## 4.2 AAL Architecture and concepts

### 4.2.1 Overview
The goal of the acceleration abstraction layer (AAL) is to specify a common and consistent set of interfaces to enable interactions with the HW Accelerators and facilitates decoupling of an AAL Application, from a specific HW implementation. To accommodate the many different combinations of HW and SW implementation and many different network deployment scenarios, the AAL introduces the concept of an AAL profile which is used to distinguish between the different combinations of accelerated functions to be offloaded. The AAL specifications shall define the AAL interface between the AAL Application and AAL Implementation in the O-Cloud instance. This includes the APIs, information models, operations and input/outputs used by the AAL Application to interface with the AAL Implementation. When the AAL APIs are utilized:
- AAL Applications that utilize the AAL APIs render the same functionality as described in the O-RAN
specifications describing the AAL Application [1].
- AAL Applications that utilize the AAL APIs shall preserve the interface definitions and behave the same way
as described in the O-RAN specifications describing those interfaces.
- O-RAN NFs that utilize the AAL APIs shall preserve the synchronization topologies as defined in [16].
In addition, the AAL Specification shall define the requirements for managing the hardware accelerator in the O-Cloud instance. The AAL Implementation itself shall not be defined by the AAL GAnP specification. ETSI GS NFV-IFA 002 [5] defines several abstraction models including pass through and abstracted models that can be used to realize an AAL

# 9 Implementation.

# 10 The AAL specification facilitates the following:
An O-cloud provides the flexibility of deploying multiple software implementations from different software vendors on a common CPU-based (e.g., x86/ARM) platform with hardware accelerators (e.g., FPGA/DSP/ASIC/GPU) for specific functions, and conversely, also allows multiple physical deployment scenarios in terms of centralizing or distributing each network element with the same software implementation. A disaggregated and cloudified multi-vendor RAN requires common vendor-neutral APIs for managed element discovery, lifecycle management, FM/PM, and orchestration across both PNFs and VNFs in order to function as a cohesive unit that supports key lifecycle use cases such as scale-out, slice management, fault tolerance, and hitless software upgrades.

### 4.2.2 AAL Architecture
The end-to-end high-level AAL architecture block diagram is shown in Figure 4.2.2-1. For AAL Applications O1 interface usage is optional. Interaction between DMS and AAL Application is out of the scope of this document. For further understanding of the deployment and operation of AAL-LPUs please refer to section 6.2. Service Management and Orchestration (SMO) Planning, Manifest, Federated O-Cloud artifacts etc.. Network Function Orchestration and Orchestrator (NFO) Management O2ims Including AAL extensions O2dms (e.g. declarative approach) DMS IMS DMS AAL-C-Mgmt AAL AAL AAL Application Application Application AAL-C-App AAL-P Artifacts that describe the AAL Implementation accelerator and AAL AAL AAL it s profile Profile Profile Profile Queue Queue Queue AAAALL P Prorofifliel e AAAALL P Prorofifliel e AAAALL P Prorofilfiel e InInstsatanncece InInstsatanncece InInstsatanncece AAL-LPU0 AAL-LPU0 AAL-LPU0 HW Accelerator Manager HW Accelerator (Physical) O-Cloud Compute Node In scope for WG6 AAL Subgroup Standardized by WG6 O2 Subgroup For Future Study Not specified in O-RAN AAL Note: The diagram shows two scopes to manage accelerators, AAL-C-Mgmt and declarative approach

# 4 Figure 4.2.2-1: High Level AAL Architecture Diagram
Figure 4.2.2-2: shows a pictorial view of the entity relationship and cardinality between AAL entities that constitute the AAL architecture. It is not meant to be the basis of a class diagram or object model which would normally be the start of an information model. Its purpose is just to help the reader mentally conceptualize the concepts depicted. See clause 4.2.4 of the present document for a high-level description of the AAL-C-Mgmt interface and the AAL-C-App interface. See [15] for a detailed description of the specification of the AAL-C-Mgmt, AAL-C-App and declarative interfaces and the operations supported.. AAL Managed Elements and Managed Functions are managed by SMO via the O2 interface exposed by the IMS and DMS using the AALI-C-MGMT interface terminated by the HW Accelerator Manager. Specifically, AAL Managed Elements and Managed Functions do not utilize the O1 interface for management of AAL Managed Elements and

# 15 Managed Functions.
The HW Accelerator, the HW Accelerator Manager, AAL-LPU and AAL drivers are defined as O-Cloud Platform Software for the purposes of management and orchestration [1]. The O-Cloud Infrastructure and O-Cloud Platform Software use case flows in [12] are applicable for these AAL elements.

### 4.2.3 HW Accelerator Manager
The HW Accelerator Manager (HAM) is responsible for exposing a consistent mechanism to the O-Cloud platform for the discovery, lifecycle management, fault, state/status, performance, configuration, updates/upgrades, and error handling of the HW Accelerator(s) that are part of the O-Cloud Platform Hardware. The HW Accelerator Manager exposes the AALI-C-Mgmt interface towards the IMS. The interfaces between the HW Accelerator and the HAM are vendor specific and not in the scope of AAL specifications. The HW Accelerator Manager is managed by IMS as per Figure 4.2.2-1: High Level AAL Architecture Diagram of this document. The identifier of the HW Accelerator Manager used within the IMS is unique within an O-Cloud instance. The HW Accelerator Manager is under the control of the O-Cloud Infrastructure. It is integrated into the Cloud Infrastructure using the O-Cloud Infrastructure's installation procedures. The HW Accelerator Manager shall be certified by the O-Cloud vendor. The following list provides a description of capabilities offered by HAM. The list is not exhaustive:

# 15 • Discovery and Life Cycle Management:
o The HW Accelerator Manager provides a mechanism to expose inventory information and capabilities of the physical and logical partitioning of the hardware and software. o The HW Accelerator Manager provides the ability to discover the capabilities of the HW

# 19 Accelerator(s).

# 6 • Configuration
o The HW Accelerator Manager allows the configuration of the HW Accelerator as prescribed by the IMS through the AALI-C-Mgmt interface. The configuration of the HW Accelerator Manager may include HW Accelerator resource assignment to AAL-LPUs.

# 10 • Fault and Performance Monitoring:
o The HW Accelerator Manager allows exposure of faults, logs and performance measurements toward the IMS.

# 13 Deployment Scenarios
The HAM’s software is deployed as part of the O-Cloud Platform software. The installation and update of the HAM’s software, deployed as a part of O-Cloud platform software, is described section 3.1.2 and section 3.1.6 of Cloudification and Orchestration Use Cases and Requirements for O-RAN Virtualized

# 17 RAN [13].
The HAM may be located on O-Cloud Nodes designated as part of the clusters used to deploy the AAL Applications (NFs) or otherwise as shown below. The figure shows HAM from the perspective of AAL-C- Mgmt interface termination point. The actual software entities (i.e., vendor specific libraries used by the HAM) for managing the HWA can reside in other locations as well. N

# O 2 IM
IM S

# O SO

# S O D E O S H A M s e r v e r N O D E

# N O D E s e r v e r
s e r v e r

# O -C lo u d N o d e C lu s te r
(N o t h o stin g N F s )

# H A M C o n ta in e r/V M o n n o d e
c lu ste r n o t u se d fo r N F d e p lo y m e n t S

# D M
O c o

# O S N O D E S

# O S N O D E O S N O D E s e r v e r H W A s e r v e r
s e r v e r -C lo u d N o d e C lu s te r (h o stin g N F s) C e n tra liz e d H A M re m o te n tro l o f th e d e p lo y e d c lu ster

# H W A re so u rc e s

# O -C lo
O u D H d

# D M S

# O S N O D E M S

# O S N O D E O S N O D E s e r v e r A M H W A s e r v e r
s e r v e r

# O -C lo u d N o d e C lu s te r
(h o stin g N F s)

# H A M c o n ta in e r/V M w ith in c lu ste r d ep lo y in g N F

# D M
O

# H A S
-C M

# O S N O D E O S N O D E

# O S N O D E H A M s e r v e r H W A s e r v e r
s e r v e r lo u d N o d e C lu s te r (h o stin g N F s) d riv e r w ith in lo c a l se rv e r

# O S
> NOTE 1: The scenarios depicted are considered an exemplification of the most common deployment scenarios.

# 24 Other locations and modelling approaches are not precluded.

# 25 Figure 4.2.3-1 Example HAM software deployment scenarios

### 4.2.4 AAL Interfaces
The AAL interface API has two distinct parts, the first part corresponds to a set of common APIs (AALI-C) to address all the profile independent aspects of the underlying AAL Implementation(s) within an O-Cloud platform. The second part corresponds to a set of AAL profile specific APIs (AALI-P) which is specific to each defined AAL profile.

# 30 There are two categories of AALI-C interface:
- AALI-C-Mgmt: OAM management from the HAM toward the O-Cloud IMS for acceleration resources
exposed by this interface.
- AALI-C-App: Common operations/actions/events towards the RAN AAL Application for resources exposed
by this interface. A candidate set of functionalities for AAL services supported by the AAL common API(s) potentially includes (but is not limited to) the following:

# 7 • Inventory Management, Fault, Performance, Configuration Management

# 8 • Software/ Firmware upgrade services

# 9 • Operations (Query status, Reset/Restart)
- Life Cycle Management of resources exposed by the interface. The AALI-C-Mgmt provides the Life Cycle
Management of the HW Accelerator and the AAL-LPU resources.
- Configuration of the state of these AAL-LPU(s) (for example, start, stop, or reset of an AAL-LPU).
- Configuration of various counters and resources associated with AAL-LPU(s) (for example, performance
measurements/indicators, performance monitoring metrics, events, faults etc.).
- Discovery of AAL-profile(s) supported by these AAL-LPU(s) and associated configurations etc.
- Abstraction of transport mechanism between the AAL Application and AAL Implementation
The information model and the exact list of operations and actions applicable across AAL-C-Mgmt and AAL-C-App are defined in [15]. The second part of AAL interface corresponds to a set of AAL profile specific APIs (AALI-P) which is specific to each defined AAL profile. The AAL profile can be common across the different AAL Implementation accelerating the same set of AFs. It enables the AAL Application to efficiently offload an AAL profile workload to the AAL Implementation in a consistent way without requiring the HW implementations to expose every single detail of the underlying HW implementation to the AAL Applications. Figure 4.2.4-1 shows examples of the AAL APIs presented to an AAL

# 25 Application in three different scenarios.
The AALI-C-App & AALI-P APIs are internal to the AAL Application that utilize them. AAL Application AAL Application AAL Application AAL AAL AAL AAL Profile AAL Profile AAL Profile AAL Profile Common Common Common

# A APIs B APIs B APIs C APIs
APIs APIs APIs AAL Interface AAL Interface AAL Interface

# 29 Figure 4.2.4-1: AAL Application Common and profile APIs

### 4.2.5 AAL Deployment in O-Cloud environments
O-RAN Network O-RAN Network Function in a Function in a container Virtual Machine AAL Application e n AAL Application ih c a API/Library M API/Library la E.g., AAL FEC Profile u tr O-Cloud Node E.g., AAL FEC Profile iV Guest OS Acc. Driver O-Cloud Node Acc. Driver Host OS Acc. Driver Host OS Acc. Driver DMS DMS Compute Svc, with Acceleration Compute Svc, with Acceleration IMS IMS O-Cloud Instance O-Cloud Instance Figure 4.2.5-1: Accelerator APIs/Libraries in Container (left) and Virtual Machine Implementations

# 5 (right)
The AAL specifications define the AAL interfaces (i.e AAL-C and AAL-P) and the AAL profiles that may be supported. The AAL-C-App interface is used by AAL Application to access the AAL Implementation encompassing HW Accelerator and associated SW libraries, drivers etc. In Figure 4.2.5-1 two deployment scenarios are shown, one with Containers and the other with Virtual Machines. Figure 4.2.5-1 also shows the O-Cloud Infrastructure Management Services and Accelerator management entity (i.e. the HAM). The orchestration of the HAM as a managed entity is outside the scope of the AAL and shall be specified in the

# 12 O-RAN WG6 O2 specification [11].

# 13 4.2.5.1 AAL Implementation Software Deployment Options
The following figures describe AAL Implementation software deployment options. In Figure 4.2.5.1-1: there is an example where the entire AAL Implementation software is deployed as part of the O-Cloud Platform Software [3], and there is no software component dependency between NF Deployments and O-Cloud Platform Software. While in Figure 4.2.5.1-2: and Figure 4.2.5.1-3: there are other examples where part of the AAL Implementation software is deployed as part of the NF Deployment and part of O-Cloud Platform Software. In these and similar cases there is a software component dependency between the NF Deployment and the O-Cloud Platform Software, as such updating AAL Implementation software in the O-Cloud Platform Software may require an update to the NF Deployment, this is outside the scope of the AAL. The installation and update of the AAL Implementation software including but not limited to device drivers and libraries, deployed as a part of O-Cloud Platform Software, is described in Cloudification and Orchestration Use Cases and Requirements for O-RAN Virtualized RAN [12], clause 3.1.2 and 3.1.6. In the diagrams below, ‘Container image(s)’ and ‘VM image(s)’ refer specifically to containers or VMs which are being used to run AAL Applications and do not preclude the existence of other containers or images. These diagrams depict several different possible ways in which the AAL Implementation software may be deployed. The AAL Implementation software may exist wholly or partially inside or outside of the specific containers or VMs which are being used to enclose the AAL Applications. (s h a r Ae d O

# A L
lib
- C
C

# A A I m
r a r lo u o py d n ta i n e r I m a g e

# L A p p l ic a t i o n
le m e n t a t io n S o ft w a r e , K e r n e l s p a c e d r iv e r s P la tf o r m S o f t w a r e e tc ..) Figure 4.2.5.1-1: Example AAL Implementation Software deployment contained within O-Cloud

# 3 Platform Software only
(s h a r A Ae d O

# A L(s

# A L
lib
- C
C o n ta i n e r I m a g e

# A A L A p p l ic a t i o n
I m p le m e n t a t io n S o ft w a r e ta tic lib r a r y , u s e r s p a c e d r iv e r s e tc ..) I m p le m e n t a t io n S o ft w a r e r a r y , K e r n e l s p a c e d r iv e r s lo u d P la tf o r m S o f t w a r e e tc ..) Figure 4.2.5.1-2: Example AAL Implementation Software Deployment split between O-Cloud Platform

# 6 Software and NF Deployment
(s G h a u r

# V M I m a g e

# A A L A p p l ic a t i o n

# A A L I m p le m e n t a t io n S o ft w a r e
(s ta tic lib r a r y , u s e r s p a c e d r iv e r s e tc ..)

# A A L I m p le m e n t a t io n S o ft w a r e
(s h a r e d lib r a r y , k e r n e l s p a c e d r iv e r s e tc ..) e s t O S

# A A L I m p le m e n t a t io n S o ft w a r e
e d lib r a r y , K e r n e l s p a c e d r iv e r s

# O - C lo u d P la tf o r m S o f t w a r e
e tc ..) Figure 4.2.5.1-3: Example AAL Implementation Software Deployment split between O-Cloud Platform Software and NF Deployment in a virtual machine environment

## 4.3 Relationship with Standards
The O-RAN AAL interface shall leverage existing standards wherever possible.

### 4.3.1 Relationship with ETSI
In [4,5,10], ETSI has specified a generic acceleration and abstraction model as well as acceleration resource management that have served as the basis of this specification. ETSI GS NFV-IFA 001 [10] provides a classification of acceleration types and describes several related uses cases, for example about compute acceleration when considering Virtual Base Stations (VBS). ETSI GS NFV-IFA 002 [4] specifies an acceleration architectural model for NFV. The acceleration model considers that a single HW device exposes multiple abstract virtual accelerators and multiple instances of these virtual accelerators per VNF. ETSI GS NFV-IFA 002 [4] defines the interfaces between the NFVI and the VNF instances to support this concept. ETSI GS NFV-IFA 019 [5] defines acceleration resource management interfaces between the VIM and the NFVI (e.g., Acceleration Image Management interface). From an NFV orchestration and management perspective, acceleration capabilities are defined as part of the relevant Virtual Compute Resource information elements, i.e., a virtual compute resource (e.g., a VM) can have associated acceleration capabilities from the set of capabilities offered by the acceleration resources. For the relevant descriptors, ETSI GS NFV-IFA 011 [14] details the VirtualComputeDesc information element in VNFD which describes CPU, Memory and acceleration requirements of the virtualisation container (e.g., a VM or a set of OS containers, such as a Pod) realizing a VNFC (i.e., a component of a VNF). For containerized deployments required acceleration capabilities can be described by the extendedResourcesRequests attribute in the OsContainerDesc information element. In addition, in the case of a containerized deployment, requirements about constraints on the placement of the set of one or more OS containers (a Pod) to cluster nodes with certain capabilities, such as acceleration, can also be defined. In both cases (VM-based and OS container-based), the VDU information element also supports an attribute to request for additional capabilities, being acceleration related capabilities as one possible example. In ETSI NFV the concept of the abstract virtual accelerator has been devised based on the idea of an extensible para- virtualised device. However, the concept has only been defined considering its use in hypervisor-based virtualization systems and is not ad-hoc applicable to the case of containerized deployments without further analysis. Also, there is no relevant ETSI NFV stage 3 work which can be referenced for the interfaces described in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 002 [4] and ETSI GS NFV-IFA 019 [5].This specification builds upon the concepts described by the aforementioned ETSI NFV specifications but also goes beyond to consider the advances introduced by cloud native solutions, for example by introducing the concept of LPUs. . ETSI GR NFV-IFA 046 [15] profiles the NFV-MANO acceleration abstraction framework and compares it to the O- RAN acceleration abstraction solution developed in the context of O-RAN, from which several challenges are further described. A set of recommendations about future work in the NFV framework are derived in the same referenced expressive to support additional functionality. 5. AAL Interface definition General Principles and Requirements

## 5.1 General Principles
The set of generic and profile-specific features of the AAL interface between the AAL application and the AAL implementation described in the following subsections are defined from an AAL Application point of view and are related to the AAL-C-App general principles and requirements.

### 5.1.1 Extensibility
O-RAN has defined the functions that can be accelerated by the cloud platform based on 3GPP specifications and O-RAN deployment scenarios. However, the AAL should not limit innovation of future implementations and should evolve as the specification requires. To that end, the AAL Application interface shall be extensible to accommodate future revisions of the specification.

### 5.1.2 Interrupt and Poll Mode
The AAL Application interface shall support multiple design choices for AAL Application vendors and shall not preclude an AAL Application/HW Accelerator vendor from adopting/supporting an interrupt-driven design or poll-mode design or any combination of both. As such, the AAL Application interface shall support both interrupt mode, poll mode and any combination of interrupt and poll modes for the data-path AAL Application interface.

### 5.1.3 HW Independence
AAL Application interface shall be independent of the underlying AAL Implementation.

### 5.1.4 Discovery and Configuration
The AAL Application interface shall enable AAL Application to discover and configure AAL-LPU(s). The AAL Application interface shall allow an AAL Application to discover what physical resources have been assigned to it from the upper layers and then to configure said resources for offload operations.

### 5.1.5 Multiple AAL-LPU Support
There may be scenarios where multiple AAL-LPUs (either implementing the same or different AAL profile(s) are assigned to a single AAL Application, which uses one or more of these AAL-LPU(s) as needed. The AAL Application interface shall support an AAL Application using one or more AAL-LPU(s) at the same time, as shown in Figure 5.1.5-

# 27 1.
A A

# A L
A P

# L - r
L o P

# A A f ile
U

# L I n t e
A r f A a c L e A p p l ic A a A t i L o n In te r fa A c A e

# A L
A P

# L - r
L o P f ile U Figure 5.1.5-1: Logical Representation of AAL Application interface support for multiple AAL-LPUs

### 5.1.6 AAL offload capabilities
The AAL Application interface in supporting different AAL profiles and AAL Implementations shall support different offload architectures including look-aside, inline, and any combination of both. An AAL Implementation shall support one or more of these offload architectures depending on the supported AAL profile(s).

### 5.1.7 Look-aside Acceleration Model
The AAL Application interface shall support look-aside acceleration model where the AAL Application invokes a HW Accelerator for data processing and receives the result after processing is complete. A look-aside architecture, illustrated in Figure 5.1.7-1, allows the AAL Application to offload AF(s) specified by AAL profiles(s) to a HW Accelerator and continue to perform other work in parallel—this could be to continue to execute other software tasks in parallel or to sleep and wait for the HW Accelerator to complete. This model requires the AAL Application interface to support two operations, one for initiating the offload and another for retrieving the output data once complete. CPU AAL Application AAL Interface AAL Profile Instance(s) HW Accelerator Input to Accelerator Output to Accelerator Figure 5.1.7-1: AAL Application interface look-aside acceleration model - Data flow

### 5.1.8 Inline Acceleration Model
The AAL Application interface shall support inline acceleration model where the AAL Application, after invoking a HW Accelerator for offloading AF(s) specified by AAL profile(s), does not necessarily retrieve the post processed data. Unlike the look-aside acceleration model where data source/sink is always the AAL Application (i.e., the HW Accelerator always receives the data to be processed from the AAL Application and returns the post processed data to the same), a HW Accelerator operating in inline acceleration mode receives/returns data from/to a different source/destination endpoint than the AAL Application, depending on the direction of data flow (e.g., in downlink (DL) direction versus uplink (UL) direction). Figure 5.1.8-1 shows one possible implementation of an inline acceleration model. AI An

# L P r
s ta n c T x A oe

# A L
f ile ( s )

# C P U
p p l ic a t i o n In te r fa c e

# A A L P r o f ile
I n s ta n c e ( s ) R x In p u t to A O u tp u t to A c c c WH e le r c e le rotareleccA a to r r a to r Figure 5.1.8-1: AAL Application interface inline acceleration model - Data flow In Figure 5.1.8-1, “Tx” refers to the transmission of the data from the HW Accelerator through an egress port (e.g., an Ethernet interface) to a destination node (e.g., O-RU), while “Rx” refers to the reception of data through an ingress port (e.g., Ethernet interface) to the HW Accelerator from a source node (e.g O-RU). While the look-aside architecture (in DL) shall support dataflow from the CPU to the HW Accelerator and back to the CPU before being sent to the egress port (front-haul interface), the inline architecture (in DL) shall support data flow from the CPU to the HW Accelerator and directly from the HW Accelerator to the egress port (front-haul interface), instead of being sent back to the CPU. The typical user plane data flows for accelerating the O-DU High-PHY functions for the look-aside and inline architectures are as follows.

# 19 Look-aside architecture user plane dataflow
CPU ↔ HW Accelerator ↔ CPU ↔ front-haul: for a set of consecutive PHY functions offload (e.g., FEC) CPU ↔ HW Accelerator ↔ CPU ↔ HW Accelerator ↔…↔ CPU ↔ front-haul: for a set of non-consecutive PHY functions offload

# 23 Inline architecture user plane dataflow
CPU ↔ HW Accelerator ↔ front-haul: for a set of consecutive PHY functions offload (up to the end of the PHY pipeline) Figure 5.1.8-2: illustrates one possible implementation of the look-aside and inline architectures. While a set of PHY- layer functions are offloaded to the HW Accelerator for look-aside acceleration, the entire end-to-end High-PHY pipeline is offloaded to the accelerator for inline acceleration. L2+ on CPU High Phy on CPU L1/L2 Func. Func. Func. Func. L2 Interface* 1 3 4 n AAL Interface Func. Func. on N-1 on accelerator accelerator HW Accelerator O-DU L2+ PHY *e.g. FAPI FH L2+ on CPU High Phy on CPU L1/L2 L2 Accelerator Interface on CPU Interface* AAL Interface Input to Accelerator Func. Func. Func. Func. Func.

### 5.1.9 AAL Application interface Concurrency and Parallelism
To enable greater flexibility and design choice by AAL Application vendors, the AAL Application interface shall support multi-threading environment allowing an AAL Application to offload acceleration requests in parallel from several threads.

### 5.1.10 Separation of Control and User Plane AAL Application interface APIs
For efficiency and flexibility of AAL Implementation, AAL Application interface shall support separation of control and user plane APIs with appropriate identifiers, as required by different AAL profiles.

### 5.1.11 Support of Versatile Acceleration Payload
Range of payload sizes can vary widely, depending on the specific layer of the RAN protocol stack from which the workload for AAL profile(s) is offloaded to a HW Accelerator. AAL Application interface API shall be flexible to support various ranges of payload sizes as required by different AAL profiles.

### 5.1.12 Support of Different Transport Mechanisms
The transport between an AAL Application and an AAL Implementation can be of different types (e.g., based on shared memory, PCIe interconnect, over ethernet). The AAL Application interface shall support abstraction of these various transport mechanisms between the AAL Application and the AAL Implementation.

### 5.1.13 AAL API namespace
For convenience of AAL Implementation, the AAL shall follow a unique name space for all AAL API functions.

### 5.1.14 Chaining of AAL Profiles
AAL profiles specify one or multiple AFs in specific order offloaded to the HWA. To take advantage of multiple AFs offloaded to the same or different HWAs, the AAL Implementation can permit the chaining of AAL Profile(s) executing the AF or set thereof. In such a case, the AAL Implementation redirects the output of preceding AAL Profile as input to the subsequent AAL Profile belonging to the same or different LPU(s) on the same or different HWA(s). Such a chaining of AAL Profiles allows data to be transferred from one AAL Profile to another AAL Profile without the intervention of the AAL Application thereby reducing transfer latencies. Chained AAL Profile Instances can reside on the same or different LPUs and HWAs. However, in this version of specification, only considers the chaining of AAL Profiles on single AAL-LPU, and the HAM announces chained AAL Profiles which can be satisfied on the single AAL- LPU and HWA. Other cases where the chained AAL Profile straddles across multiple AAL-LPUs and HWAs are for further study. The use of chaining two AAL Profiles is optional for the AAL Implementation and depends on the AAL Profiles requested by the AAL Application. During CNF deployment as per K8s profile, or VNF deployment as per ETSI profile, AAL Implementation can chain the AAL Profiles to create a chained AAL Profile with more AFs implemented as part of the chained AAL Profile. The chained AAL Profile should conform to the AAL Profile requested by the AAL Application, i.e., the chained AAL Profile has same properties towards the AAL Application as well as the IMS and the DMS. It is the responsibility of the AAL Implementation to announce that the chained profile as an AAL Profile as defined in AAL specifications to which the chain conforms. The first AAL Profile in the chain takes data from the AAL Application and the last AAL Profile returns the transformed data to the AAL Application. A chained AAL Profile Instance is valid only if the two or more AAL Profiles form semantically correct sequence of consecutive blocks in the AF processing chain and no intervention is required by the AAL Application for control or data exchanged between the two AAL Profiles. Additionally, the output format of the preceding AAL Profile should match with the input format of the succeeding AAL Profile. AAL Profile chaining may be applicable to both inline and look-aside acceleration. The data flows in these cases are depicted in Figure 5.1.14-3: and Figure 5.1.14-4:. AAL Application AAL Profile AAL Profile AAL Profile Instance 1 Instance 2 Instance n

# 29 Figure 5.1.14-1: Data flow through unchained AAL Profiles

# A A L P r o f il e 1
A A A A A L

# A L

# L P
C h a A p p l r o f il e 2 in e d P r o i c a f ile t i In o s n t a n c e

# A A L P r o f il e n
> NOTE 1: In Figure 5.1.14-1 and Figure 5.1.14-2 above, the chained AAL Profile Instance is a data stream transformer
that works upon the input data stream to produce output stream. Input data and parameters are passed on from preceding AAL Profile to next. These are provided by the AAL Application in case of the first AAL Profile. The difference is that in Figure 5.1.14-1:, the AAL Application would call a series of AAL Profile Instances, while in Error! Not a valid bookmark self-reference., the AAL Application calls only one AAL Profile Instance, which happens to be the chained AAL Profile instance.
> NOTE 2: The mechanisms for transfer of data and parameters to each of the AAL Profile Instances in unchained
mode and to the chained AAL Profile Instances follow the AAL-C-App interface’s transport as defined in AAL Common API Specifications [14]. The AAL Profiles in the chained mode shall continue to follow the

# 11 AAL-C-App Interface specified in [14]
> NOTE 3: The AAL-Implementation can configure the chaining of AAL-Profiles during its initialization in order to avoid
disruption in the processing chain while the AAL Application is in service.

# 14 Figure 5.1.14-2: Data flow through chained AAL Profiles
The chaining of AAL Profiles is possible across the HWAs and LPUs, however, it is beyond the current scope of document and for future studies. The chained look-aside acceleration architecture follows the same dataflow models as look-aside acceleration functions with subtle difference. The first and the last blocks in the chain interfacing the CPU to HW Accelerator support respectively dataflow from the CPU to the accelerator and then from accelerator back to the CPU. All the intermediate blocks support dataflow to and from the preceding and succeeding accelerated functions when those are configured as links in the chain. When not configured as chained accelerated functions, these should support dataflow as in look-aside acceleration.

# 23 Look-aside chained architecture user plane dataflow.
CPU ↔ HW Accelerator (AF1) ↔ HW Accelerator (AF2) ↔ … ↔ HW Accelerator (AFn) ↔ CPU ↔ front-haul: for offload of a set of consecutive PHY functions (e.g., FEC) CPU ↔ HW Accelerator (AF1) ↔… ↔HW Accelerator (AFn) ↔ CPU ↔ HW Accelerator ↔…↔ CPU ↔ front- haul: for offload of a set of non-consecutive PHY functions Figure 5.1.14-3: illustrates the data flow through the chained HW Accelerated functions within an accelerator when configured for consecutive PHY function offload while Figure 5.1.14-4 represents it for non-consecutive PHY function offload.

# O -D U

# L 2 +

# P H Y

# F H
L o ok -aside ch ain ing M o del

# L 2 + o
L n C

# P U
In

# L 1 /L 2
terface* F u n1 c . a c I/O F u n c . o n c e le r a to d ata flow r H H ig h A W P h y o n C P

# A L In terface
A c c e le ra to U r a

# P H

# P H
F u n c .

# N -1 o n
c c e le r a to Y d ow n lin Y u plink r k F u nn c . luaH tnorF ecafretnI

# F H (7.2) O -R U
Figure 5.1.14-3: Dataflow through chained lookaside HW Accelerator for consecutive Hi-PHY functions. L2+ on CPU High Phy on CPU L ch o a o i k n - i a n s g i d M e odel L2 In L te rf /L ac e* Fu nc. Fu nc. Fu n nc. lu a H tn o rF eca fretn I FH (7.2) O-RU O-DU AAL Interface L2+ PHY FH Func. Func. Func. Func.

# 4 PHY uplink
Figure 5.1.14-4: Dataflow through chained lookaside HW Accelerator for consecutive and non- consecutive PHY.

### 5.1.15 Fault notification
There would be cases where AAL applications would keep doing unnecessary and inefficient processing (e.g. UL/DL scheduling) for duration of inconsistent knowledge between HWA and AAL application when HWA falls into unexpected failures or conditions (e.g. DL Transmission failure, UL HARQ buffer release, etc.). The fault notification in AALI-C-App interface should be supported, and the notification from HWA should contain related information with which AAL applications could react quickly on abnormal HWA related events and avoid unnecessary and inefficient processing.

## 5.2 High-PHY Profile Specific Principles
The set of features of AAL described in the following subsections are relevant for inline High-PHY AAL profiles (profile names with suffix ‘_HIGH-PHY’) defined in Chapter 5

### 5.2.1 Separation of Cell and Slot Level Parameter Configurations
In general, “cell-specific” (typically static or semi-static in nature) parameters change less frequently than “slot-specific” (typically dynamic in nature, specific to PHY channels/signals) parameters associated with inline, High-PHY AAL profiles. Hence, for optimizing signalling overhead, the AAL Application interface shall support configuration of “cell- specific” and “slot-specific” parameters to the AAL Implementation using separate AAL Application interface API functions. It is noteworthy that the cell/slot specific configurations can include both control and user planes.

### 5.2.2 SFN/slot-based Synchronization
The AAL Application interface shall support system frame number (SFN) based or slot-based synchronization between the AAL Application and the AAL Implementation supporting inline, high-PHY AAL profiles.

### 5.2.3 Compatibility with O-RAN FH interface
The functional split between the O-DU and the O-RU remains as defined by the WG4 OFH interface [17] and the AAL Application interface API shall be compatible with O-RAN FH interface (7.2-x split) to enable communication between the O-DU AAL Application and O-RU via AAL Implementation as required by inline, High-PHY AAL profile(s).

### 5.2.4 Inline Profile for High-PHY Stack
Inline data flow for the AAL Profile that specifies a complete stack of High-PHY functions implies that the set of Accelerated Functions is constituted by the entire U-plane processing of the High-PHY channels or signals (with 7-2x PHY functional split) and the IQ data (in DL) or decoded bits (in UL) (post processing) and these are transferred directly from the HW Accelerator to the Fronthaul interface (in DL) or to the Layer 2 (in UL). Inline acceleration for AAL Profiles that specify a partial stack of the High-PHY for UL and for DL Accelerated Functions is also possible; in such case only parts of the U-Plane, i.e., not all the functions of the High-PHY stack of a given channel, may be offloaded to a HW Accelerator. For inline acceleration of a partial High-PHY stack, the IQ data or decoded bits are also transferred directly from the HW Accelerator to the Fronthaul (in DL) and to the non- accelerated part of the High-PHY stack (in UL). The set of Accelerated Functions that are offloaded in Inline mode for acceleration of a partial High-PHY stack would be AAL Profile specific. The support of AAL Profiles that specify the support of partial High-PHY stack is for future study. L2+ on CPU High Phy on CPU P M a o rt d ia e l l Inline L2 In L te rf /L ac e* Fu nc. Fu nc. Fu n nc. lu a H tn o rF eca fretn I FH (7.2) O-RU O-DU AAL Interface L2+ PHY FH Func. Func. Func.

# 3 4 N-1
HW Accelerator PHY downlink I/O data flow

# 20 PHY uplink
Figure 5.2.4-1: Partial Inline Model for AAL Hi-PHY Profile 6. AAL-LPU Principles

## 6.1 Overview
This section discusses about AAL-LPU(s) presented to AAL Applications using the AAL Application interface. An AAL-LPU should not be confused with a physical HW Accelerator. Within a process address space each AAL-LPU shall abstract the AAL Application from underlying HW Accelerator. The following list provides a description of capabilities and characteristics of AAL-LPUs:
- An AAL-LPU maps to a single HW Accelerator. An AAL-LPU can be identified uniquely within a HW

# 8 Accelerator.
- A HW Accelerator may support 1 to N AAL-LPU’s.
- Each AAL-LPU shares the resources of the associated HW Accelerator with other AAL-LPU(s) mapped to the
same HW Accelerator. AAL-LPU can also represent a hard partition of the HW Accelerator where resources are dedicated to the partition.
- Mapping of HW Accelerator resources to AAL-LPU shall be configurable from O2 interface
- An AAL-LPU may support more than one AAL profile. For each supported AAL profile, an AAL-LPU may
execute 0 to N AAL-Profile-Instances.
- An AAL-LPU can be assigned to a single POD or VM. Multiple LPU's can be assigned to a POD or VM.
- An AAL-LPU can provide service to 0 or more AAL Applications within a POD or VM.
- AAL-LPU is a virtual Managed Element as defined in [13].
Depending on HW design and implementation choice, a HW Accelerator may accelerate multiple profiles or offer support for sharing HW Accelerator resources between multiple threads, processes, VMs, PODs. For this reason, a second abstract construct known as AAL Profile Queue can optionally be used to
- distinguish between multiple supported AAL profiles per AAL-LPU

# 23 • prioritize access to AAL-LPU resources

# 24 • group operation requests
- allow parallel access through AAL Application interface for multiple threads
As an abstract construct, an AAL Profile Queue does not reflect a HW design specification or requirement. From the AAL Application point of view, an AAL Profile queue is exposed by an AAL Profile Instance
- an AAL Profiles Instances exposes one or more AAL Profile Queues
- The AAL Profile Queue optionally also supports priority, allowing the AAL Application to schedule jobs of
different priorities.
> NOTE: An AAL Profile Queue can be used by an AAL Application to share AAL-LPU resources between
threads/cores belonging to the same process address space
> NOTE: An AAL Application may use multiple AAL Profile Queues to access different AAL Profile Instances
supported by an AAL-LPU

## 6.2 LPU Deployment and Operation

### 6.2.1 Example AAL-LPU Mapping
The following Section contains example deployments mapping AAL-LPUs to AAL Applications. The labels ‘profile- instanceID’ and ‘queueID’ in the following diagrams denote AAL Profile Instance object handle and identifier of an

# 5 AAL Profile Queue respectively.
- Scenario 1: Basic implementation: A HW Accelerator supports a single AAL-LPU which exposes a single

# 7 AAL-Profile-Instance for one AAL Application to use
AAL Application API(profile-instanceID, queueID) AAL Profile Instance AAL-LPU0 HW Accelerator (Physical)

# A HW Accelerator supports a single AAL LPU which
exposes a single AAL Profile Queue for one application to use Figure 6.2.1-1: Scenario 1: A single AAL LPU exposes a single AAL Profile Queue used by a single

# 11 AAL Application.
Scenario 2: Basic Multi Application Support: A HW Accelerator supports multiple AAL LPUs for multiple AAL

# 16 Applications
A E P x

# A A I(p ro
a m

# L A p p l ic a tio n
file -in sta n c e ID , q u e u e ID

# A A L P r o f ile
In s ta n c e

# A A L - L P U 0

# H W A c c e
M u lt i a p p p l e s h o w in g m u b y a s i n g le ) le ra to li c a t lti p le

# H W

# A P
r (P i o n a p a c

# A A L A p p l ic a tio n
I(p ro file -in sta n c e ID , q u e u e ID

# A A L P r o f ile
In s ta n c e

# A A L - L P U 0
h y s ic a l) s u p p o r t p lic a ti o n s s u p p o r t e d c e l e r a t o r ) Figure 6.2.1-2: A single HW Accelerator supporting two LPU's each assigned to individual AAL

# 3 Applications
- Scenario 3: Multiple Accelerator Support: Mapping example showing multiple HW Accelerators assigned
to a single AAL Application AAL Application API(profile-instanceID, queueID) API(profile-instanceID, queueID) AAL Profile AAL Profile Instance Instance AAL-LPU0 AAL-LPU1 HW Accelerator (Physical) HW Accelerator (Physical) Multi accelerator support Example showing multiple HW accelerators assigned to a single application Figure 6.2.1-3: Two HW Accelerators each supporting a single AAL-LPU assigned to a single AAL

# 12 Application.
- Scenario 4: Multi Queue Support: AAL LPU mapping showing multiple AAL Profile Queue support
A

# A P

# H W
M s i n t w o u s

# A A L A p p l i c a t i o n
I( p r o f ile -in s ta n c e I D , q u e u e I D )

# A A L P r o f il e
I n s ta n c e

# A A L - L P U 0
A c c e l e r a t o r ( P h y s i c a l ) u l t i q u e u e s u p p o r t g l e A A L L P U e x p o s e

# A A L P r o f i l e Q u e u e s
e d b y a s i n g l e A A L A p p l i c a t i o n s Figure 6.2.1-4: A single AAL LPU exposes two AAL Profile Queues used by a single AAL Application.
- Scenario 5: Multi Profile Support: Mapping example showing multi-function support
AAL Application API(profile-instanceID, queueID) API(profile-instanceID, queueID) AAL Profile AAL Profile Instance Instance AAL-LPU0 HW Accelerator (Physical) Multi Profile Support A single AAL LPU supporting two AAL Profile Instances exposes two AAL Profile Queues used by a single AAL Application Figure 6.2.1-5: A single AAL LPU supporting two AAL Profile Instances exposes two AAL Profile

# 8 Queues used by a single AAL Application.
- Scenario 6: Chained Profile Support: Mapping example showing a multi-profile chained AAL Profile

# 10 Instance on an AAL-LPU
E x a m c hP ar pio lnf

# A A L A p p l ic a tio n

# A P I(p ro file -in sta n c e ID , q u e u e ID )

# A A L P r o f ile 1 A A L P r o f ile 2

# A A L C h a in e d P ro file I n s ta n c e

# A A L - L P U 0

# H W A c c e le ra to r (P h y s ic a l)
C h a i n e d P r o f il e S u p p o r t e s h o w in g m u lti p le A A L P r o f il e s ( 1 e d t o g e t h e r t o i m p le m e n t a s i n g l e A ile I n s t a n c e o n a n A A L - L P U w h ic h e q u i v a le n t to P r o f il e 1 + P r o f i le 2 &

# A L
i s

### 6.2.2 Statistics
The AAL Application interface shall provide an AAL Application with general statistics upon request. Statistics may include but not limited to operation counts and error counts.

### 6.2.3 Memory Management
O-RAN network functions (O-DU, O-CU, etc.) will be responsible for input, output and operation structure memory allocation and freeing, using AAL defined memory management functions. All other AAL Application memory is not required to use the AAL memory management functions. Device Drivers are free to manage their own internal memory, DMA implementation as needed, the AAL specification does not add any memory requirements to device driver. Each AAL Implementation shall define its own memory requirements and implement its own memory backing if needed. Each AAL Implementation may define its own operation memory structure and allocation if needed.

### 6.2.4 Run Time Configurations
Operations are requested to the AAL-LPU to execute specific HW Accelerated Function(s). Each operation shall be represented by an operation struct that shall define all necessary metadata, configurations and information required for the operation to be processed on an AAL-LPU. The operation structs shall define the operation type to be performed, including an operation status and reference to the AAL profile specific operation data which can vary in size and content depending on the AAL profile. Each AAL profile shall define its own operation structure for its specific functions.

### 6.2.5 AAL Profile(s) offload, processing status query and processed data
retrieval

# 3 6.2.5.1 Overview
An AAL Application aggregates one or more AAL profile(s) and offload to the AAL Implementation using a single AAL Application interface API invocation. As one example, for High-PHY AAL profiles defined in clause7, multiple AAL profiles (where an AAL profile refers to a PHY channel/signal for one or more than one cell(s) and one or more than one UE(s)) scheduled within a slot can be aggregated and offloaded to an AAL-LPU by the AAL Application using a single AAL Application interface API invocation. The processing status of offloaded/enqueued AAL profile(s) can be queried by the AAL Application in an ‘asynchronous’ manner, i.e., not necessarily in the same order in which the AAL profile(s) are offloaded. In case the AAL Application retrieves the post-processed data from the AAL Implementation, a ‘processing status query’ request can be bundled with a ‘processed data retrieval/dequeue’ request. In general, status query and dequeue request corresponding to multiple enqueue requests can be bundled together by the AAL Application and invoked through a single AAL Application interface API function.

# 15 6.2.5.2 AAL Profile Functionality Bypass
An AAL Profile specifies a series of one or more Accelerated Functions (AFs) which can be offloaded to Hardware Accelerator by the AAL Application. These AFs are linked internally and interface to each other in a manner transparent to the AAL Application. However, under certain situations, it is desirable to bypass certain AFs implemented by the AAL Profile. For example, consider an AAL Profile that has 3 AFs as shown in Figure-6.2.5.1-1 (a) below. With bypass mode, it is possible to get functionalities in (b), (c), (d), (e), (f) and (g). T F o ro A m A

# A A L A p p lica tio n

# A F 1

# A F 2

# A F 3

# L A p p lica tio n or N
(a) IC T F o ro A m A

# A A L A p p lica tio n

# A F 1

# A F 2

# L A p p lica tio n or N
(b) IC T F o ro A m A

# A A L A p p lica tio n

# A F 1

# L A p p lica tio n or N
(c) IC T F o ro A m A

# A A L A p p lica tio n

# A F 2

# A F 3

# L A p p lica tio n or N
(d) IC T o F ro m A A L A p p lica tio n

# A F 3

# A A L A p p lica tio n or N IC
(e) T F o ro A m A

# A A L A p p lica tio n

# A F 1

# A F 3

# L A p p lica tio n or N
(f) IC T F o ro A m A

# A A L A p p lica tio n

# A F 2

# L A p p lica tio n or N
(g) IC

# 22 Figure 6.2.5.1- 1 Various AAL Bypass scenarios
Any AF in the set of processing functions may be bypassed as long as the processing chain of the AAL Profile remains unaffected. Bypass modes apply to both inline and look-aside accelerators. The capability of the AAL Profile to support bypassing of certain AFs (“bypass mode” of operation) and the list of AFs which can be bypassed is advertised by the LPU. The AAL Profile definition shall continue to include all the mandatory accelerated functions that need to be supported by the vendors to comply with the O-RAN profile specification.

### 6.2.6 AAL-LPU Exposure

# 30 6.2.6.1 Overview
After using the HW Accelerator Manager to create the AAL-LPU(s) and the profiles supported, we can then expose it to the AAL Application (e.g. in KubernetesⓇ it will be part of the POD environment variables). The goal of this section is to abstract the way the AAL-LPU and its supported profiles are exposed to the AAL Application in order to achieve AAL Application portability. Hence, the AAL-LPU and its profile(s) shall be exposed the AAL Application in an abstracted descriptor. As of today many implementations refer to the AAL-LPU by its PCI address and describe a single profile for the entire HW Accelerator, meaning exposure of one single profile for all LPUs supported. This section provides step-by-step example that shows how the AAL-LPU could be exposed to abstract the PCIe address and the profile(s) supported by the AAL-LPU. Although the below example is a KubernetesⓇ example, the outcome of it is independent of orchestration technology supported.

# 3 6.2.6.2 Example

# 4 6.2.6.2.1 AAL-LPU Configuration
1. A given HW Accelerator can support 16 AAL-LPUs and FEC LDPC, PHY profiles but the default setup of the

# 6 AAL-LPUs is FEC:
LPU-1 LPU-2 LPU-3 LPU-16 FEC FEC FEC FEC HW Accelerator (Physical)

# 9 Figure 6.2.6.2.1-1: Example AAL-LPU and profile supported
2. Now assume HW Accelerator Manager configured the HW Accelerator as follow:
- LPU-1 supports FEC version 01, PHY and LDPC version 01 profiles

# 13 • LPU-2 supports LDPC version 02 profile

# 14 • LPU-3 supports LDPC version 02 profile

# 15 • LPU-4 supports LDPC version 02 profile
F L L EPD P CHP UvYC
- 1

# 17 Figure 6.2.6.2.1-2: Example HW Accelerator configuration
3. Assigning it to a vDU POD and exposing the two LPU/Profiles needed by vDU (in green):

# L P U -1

# F E C v 0 1 &

# P H Y &

# L D P C v 0 1

# L P U -2

# L D P C v 0 2 L
ccelerator (P hysical) LD PP UC -3 v 0 2 Figure 6.2.6.2.1-3: Example assignment of AAL-LPUs and supported profiles to POD We can see that the AAL-LPU resources requested in the manifest is translated in the POD environment to three AAL- LPU addresses plus the strings that describe the profiles supported by the LPU. Please note that the AAL Application will be able to query the AAL-LPUs and their supported profiles via the AAL-C-App API.

# 7 Figure 6.2.6.2.2-1: Example AAL Application configured AAL-Profile-Instances

# 8 6.2.6.2.3 AAL-LPU resource tracking
It is a key to be able to track the AAL-LPU as a resource for providing the AAL Application with acceleration resources it needs otherwise the attempt to create the NF will fail due to insufficient resources available. There are few notes related to the tracking of the AAL-LPU resources in relation to the example’s above in :
- If another POD needs to use the LDPC profile, Kubernetes will allow it as 2 out of 3 were used (LPU-4
supports it).
- If another POD needs to use FEC and PHY profiles (FEC&PHY), Kubernetes will reject it as only one LPU is
configured this way.
- We need to consider if a logic is needed to track the AAL-LPU availability from the SMO. For example, a
total of ten AAL-LPU/FEC profiles available in a cluster, three is being used by a deployment, seven left for a new deployment. The seven available could be revealed to the user or automation at the SMO level when considering additional deployments. The conclusion is that the SMO shall be able to track the AAL-LPU as a resource and its availability.

### 6.2.7 Accelerator configuration options between IMS & FOCOM

# 23 6.2.7.1 Declarative approach
Declarative approach defines a desired system state and software is responsible for bringing the system to that state. In context of accelerator management, it is the desired state of the accelerator configuration to support certain profile(s) characteristics. This approach is flexible, reliable and repeatable, reducing or eliminating the need for imperative deployment techniques such as scripting and manual command entry. The O-RAN WG6 O2 General Aspects and Principles [11] clause 3.4.3.8 discusses the Cluster Template concept that this supports. The following are examples of a desired state for an accelerator to support an AAL-Profile version 1.9.0 with two

# 4 … …

# 5 Profile_Name: AAL-PROFILE LPUs_Request: 2

# 6 { {
Pro file _V ersi on: 1.9 .0 Or Profile_Name: AAL-PROFILE

# 8 LPUs_Request: 2 Profile_Version: 1.9.0

# 9 } }

# 10 …

# 11 …
> NOTE 1: The SMO represented Cluster Template instance characteristics such as Capabilities and Capacities are not
described in the present document. 7. AAL Profiles An AAL profile specifies a set of Accelerated Functions that a Hardware Accelerator processes on behalf of an AAL Application within an O-RAN Cloudified Network Function (e.g. O-DU, O-CU etc.). Accordingly, AAL profiles can be categorized as O-DU AAL profiles, O-CU AAL profiles and so on. The following sections describe these different

# 5 AAL profile categories in further details.

## 7.1 O-DU AAL Profiles
An O-DU AAL profile can specify a set of Accelerated Functions within the O-DU protocol stack. These functions may belong to a single layer (e.g., PHY) or span across multiple layers (e.g., PHY and MAC) within O-DU. The current O- DU AAL profiles being studied by O-RAN WG6 are focusing on Accelerated Functions from PHY layer of O-DU.

### 7.1.1 O-DU Protocol Stack Reference
Figure 7.1.1-1: illustrates the building blocks for processing various O-DU PHY layer Downlink (DL) channels and signals (with 7.2-x functional split between O-DU and O-RU) defined by 3GPP in [6] & [7] as part of 5G NR specification. Figure 7.1.1-1: O-DU PHY processing blocks for 5G NR Downlink The O-DU PHY layer in downlink consists of the following physical channels and reference signals:
- Physical Downlink Shared Channel (PDSCH) and associated Demodulation Reference Signal (PDSCH DM-RS).
- Physical Downlink Control Channel (PDCCH) and associated Demodulation Reference Signal (PDCCH DM-RS).

# 19 • Synchronization Signal Block (SSB) consisting of o Physical Broadcast Channel (PBCH) and associated DMRS (PBCH DM-RS).
o Primary Synchronization Signal (PSS). o Secondary Synchronization Signal (SSS).

# P D S C H T B (s )

# T B C R C a t ta c h m e n t

# C B s e g m e n ta tio n +

# C B C R C a tt a c h m e n t

# L D P C e n c o d in g
R a t e m a tc h in g

# C B c o n c a te n a t io n

# P D S C H D M -R
S c r a m b lin g S e q u e n c e g e n e ra tio n M o d u la t io n M o d u la t io n L a y e r m a p p in g P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p re s s io n * S

# L 2 +

# P D C C H (D C I)

# C R C a tt a c h m e n t
P o la r e n c o d in g

# P D C C H D M -R S R a t e m a tc h in g
S e q u e n c e S c r a m b lin g g e n e ra tio n M o d u la t io n M o d u la t io n (Q P S K ) P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p re s s io n *

# O -R A N F H (7 -2 x lo w e r la y e r s p

# P B C H T B

# P B C H p a y lo a d
g e n e ra tio n S c r a m b lin g

# T B C R C
a tta c h m e n t P o la r e n c o d in g

# P S S / S S S
R a t e m a tc h in g P B C H D M -R S D a ta S e q u e n c e s c r a m b lin g G e n e r a tio n M o d u la t io n M o d u la t io n (Q P S K ) P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p re s s io n * lit)

# C S
IQ I-R S / P T -R S / T S e q u e n c e G e n e r a tio n M o d u la t io n P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
c o m p re s s io R n S *
- Channel State Information-Reference Signal (CSI-RS) and Tracking Reference Signal (TRS).

# 4 2 and above).
The downlink physical layer processing of data channel (PDSCH) carrying transport blocks consists of the following steps: TB CRC attachment: Error detection is provided on each transport block (TB) through a Cyclic Redundancy Check (CRC). Refer to Subclause 7.2.1 in [7] for details. CB segmentation and CRC attachment: The transport block is segmented when it exceeds the code block (CB) size specified by 3GPP [7]. Code block segmentation and code block CRC attachment are performed according to

# 11 Subclauses 7.2.3 and 5.2.2 of [7].
LDPC encoding: Refer to Subclauses 7.2.4 and 5.3.2 in [7] for details. Rate matching: Refer to Subclauses 7.2.5 and 5.4.2 in [7] for details. CB concatenation: Refer to Subclauses 7.2.6 and 5.5 in [7] for details. Scrambling: Refer to Subclause 7.3.1.1 in [6] for details. Modulation: Refer to Subclause 7.3.1.2 in [6] for details. Layer mapping: Refer to Subclause 7.3.1.3 in [6] for details. RE mapping: Refer to Subclause 7.3.1.5 and 7.3.1.6 in [6] for details on Resource Element (RE) mapping. The downlink physical layer processing of control channel (PDCCH) carrying Downlink Control Information (DCI) consists of the following steps: CRC attachment: Error detection is provided on DCI transmissions through a Cyclic Redundancy Check (CRC). Refer to Subclause 7.3.2 in [7] for details. Polar encoding: Refer to Subclauses 7.3.3 and 5.3.1 in [7] for details. Rate matching: Refer to Subclauses 7.3.4 and 5.4.1 in [7] for details. Scrambling: Refer to Subclause 7.3.2.3 in [6] for details. Modulation: Refer to Subclause 7.3.2.4 in [6] for details. RE mapping: Refer to Subclause 7.3.2.5 in [6] for details. The downlink physical layer processing of broadcast channel (PBCH) carrying maximum one transport block consists of the following steps: PBCH payload generation: Refer to Subclause 7.1.1 in [7] for details. Scrambling: Refer to Subclause 7.1.2 in [7] for details. TB CRC attachment: Refer to Subclause 7.1.3 in [7] for details. Polar encoding: Refer to Subclauses 7.1.4 and 5.3.1 in [7] for details. Rate matching: Refer to Subclauses 7.1.5 and 5.4.1 in [7] for details. Data scrambling: Refer to Subclause 7.3.3.1 in [6] for details. Modulation: Refer to Subclause 7.3.3.2 in [6] for details. RE mapping: Refer to Subclause 7.3.3.3 in [6] for details. The downlink physical signals (DM-RS, PSS, SSS, CSI-RS/TRS, PT-RS) correspond to a set of resource elements used by the physical layer but does not carry information originated from higher layers (i.e. layer 2 and above). Reference Signals (DM-RS, CSI-RS/TRS, PT-RS) and Synchronization Signals (PSS/SSS) are generated using the following steps: Sequence Generation and Modulation: Refer to Subclauses 7.4.1.1.1 (PDSCH DM-RS), 7.4.1.3.1 (PDCCH DM-RS),

##### 7.4.1.4.1 (PBCH DM-RS), 7.4.1.5.2 (CSI-RS/TRS), 7.4.1.2.1 (PT-RS), 7.4.2.2.1 (PSS) and 7.4.2.3.1 (SSS) in [6] for details.
RE mapping: Refer to Subclauses 7.4.1.1.2 (PDSCH DM-RS), 7.4.1.3.2 (PDCCH DM-RS), 7.4.1.4.2 (PBCH DM-RS),

##### 7.4.1.5.3 (CSI-RS/TRS), 7.4.1.2.2 (PT-RS), 7.4.2.2.2 (PSS) and 7.4.2.3.2 (SSS) in [6] for details.
An O-DU AAL profile for 5G NR downlink shall specify a set of accelerated functions corresponding to one or more than one physical downlink channel(s) and/or physical downlink signal(s). In addition to the processing blocks mentioned above, each of these downlink physical channels/signals may include some additional functional blocks (e.g. precoding, IQ compression) which are implementation specific and may also depend on system configurations/capabilities (for example, whether a O-DU is connected to a CAT-A/CAT-B O-RU). Each of these physical channels/signals can be implemented with/without these optional functional blocks. The AAL Application interface shall expose to the AAL Application whether these functional blocks are supported or not within the AAL Implementation. Figure 7.1.1-2: illustrates the building blocks for processing various O-DU PHY layer Uplink (UL) channels and signals (with 7.2-x functional split between O-DU and O-RU) defined by 3GPP [6] as part of 5G NR specification. L2 + PUSCH UL data TB CRC check CB CRC + CB Desegmentation PUCCH format 2/3/4 UCI LDPC decoding CRC check Rate dematching Polar/Block decoding CB Deconcatenation Rate dematching PRACH Descrambling Descrambling Preamble detection + Demodulation PUCCH format 1 Demodulation delay estimation IDFT for DFT-s- UCI IDFT for DFT-s-OFDM Peak search OFDM Demodulation Noise estimation Channel Channel PUCCH format 0 Channel equalization equalization UCI equalization IFFT SRS PT-RS Channel Sequence Channel Root sequence Channel Sequence Channel estimation estimation detection estimation correlation estimation detection RE demapping RE demapping RE demapping RE demapping RE demapping RE demapping RE demapping IQ IQ IQ IQ IQ IQ IQ decompression* decompression* decompression* decompression* decompression* decompression* decompression* O-RAN FH (7-2x lower layer split) Figure 7.1.1-2: O-DU PHY processing blocks for 5G NR Uplink The O-DU PHY layer in uplink consists of the following physical channels and reference signals:

# 24 • Physical Uplink Shared Channel (PUSCH).
- Physical Uplink Control Channels (PUCCH) with formats 0/1/2/3/4.

# 26 • Physical Random-Access Channel (PRACH).

# 8 Channel estimation and equalization: up to O-DU implementation.
Transform precoding (IDFT): optional, only required for DFT-s-OFDM waveform. Refer to Subclause 6.3.1.4 of [6] for details on transform precoding (if applicable) applied at the transmitter. Demodulation: Refer to Subclause 6.3.1.2 in [6] for details on modulation applied at the transmitter. Descrambling: Refer to Subclause 6.3.1.1 in [6] for details on scrambling applied at the transmitter. CB de-concatenation: Refer to Subclause 6.2.6 in [7] for details on CB concatenation applied at the transmitter. Rate de-matching: Refer to Subclause 6.2.5 in [7] for details on rate matching applied at the transmitter. LDPC decoding: Refer to Subclause 6.2.4 in [7] for details on LDPC encoding applied at the transmitter. CB de-segmentation and CB CRC check: Refer to Subclause 6.2.3 in [7] for details on CB segmentation and CB CRC attachment applied at the transmitter. TB CRC check: Refer to Subclause 6.2.1 in [7] for details on TB level CRC attachments applied at the transmitter. The uplink physical layer processing for control channel (PUCCH) carrying UCI depends on PUCCH formats. PUCCH format 0 processing consists of the following steps at the receiver (O-DU): RE de-mapping: Refer to subclause 6.3.2.3.2 of [6] for details on RE mapping applied at the transmitter. Sequence detection: The transmitted sequence (refer to Subclause 6.3.2.3 in [6] for details) is detected at O-DU using a non-coherent detector, since PUCCH format 0 does not carry any DM-RS. The detailed design is up to O-DU implementation. PUCCH format 1 processing consists of the following steps at the receiver (O-DU): RE de-mapping: Refer to Subclauses 6.3.2.4.2 and 6.4.1.3.1.2 of [6] for details on RE mapping applied at the transmitter.

# 28 Channel estimation and equalization: up to O-DU implementation.
Demodulation: Refer to Subclause 6.3.2.4.1 in [6] for details on modulation applied at the transmitter. PUCCH formats 2/3/4 processing consists of the following steps at the receiver (O-DU): RE de-mapping: Refer to Subclauses 6.3.2.5.3 and 6.4.1.3.2.2 (format 2); 6.3.2.6.5 and 6.4.1.3.3.2 (formats 3/4) of [6] for details on RE mapping applied at the transmitter.

# 33 Channel estimation and equalization: up to O-DU implementation.
Transform precoding (IDFT): optional, only required for DFT-s-OFDM waveform. Refer to Subclause 6.3.2.6.4 of [6] for details on transform precoding (applicable for formats 3/4) applied at the transmitter. Demodulation: Refer to Subclause 6.3.2.5.2 (format 2) and 6.3.2.6.2 (formats 3/4) in [6] for details on modulation applied at the transmitter. Descrambling: Refer to Subclause 6.3.2.5.1 (format 2) and 6.3.2.6.1 (formats 3/4) in [6] for details on scrambling applied at the transmitter. Rate de-matching: Refer to Subclause 6.3.1.4 in [7] for details on rate matching applied at the transmitter. Polar/Block decoding: Refer to Subclause 6.3.1.3 in [7] for details on Polar/Block encoding applied at the transmitter. CRC check: Refer to Subclause 6.3.1.2 in [7] for details on CRC attachment applied at the transmitter. The uplink physical layer processing for random access channel (PRACH) carrying preamble consists of the following steps at the receiver (O-DU): RE de-mapping: Refer to Subclause 6.3.3.2 in [6] for details on RE mapping applied at the transmitter. Root sequence correlation: Perform correlation operation between root sequence and received signals. Refer to Subclause 6.3.3.1 in [6] for details on root sequence generation. IFFT: perform the inverse Fast Fourier Transform (iFFT) operation on the received signal(s).

# 10 Noise estimation: perform the noise estimation operation.
Peak search: detect the peak for different root sequences. Preamble detection and Timing Advance (TA) or delay estimation: determine the preamble sequence(s) received and the corresponding timing advance estimate(s). The uplink physical signals (SRS, PT-RS) do not carry any information from the higher layers (i.e. layer 2 and above). The Sounding Reference Signal (SRS) in uplink is received at O-DU using the following steps: RE de-mapping: Refer to Subclauses 6.4.1.4.3 and 6.4.1.4.4 in [6] for details on RE mapping applied at the transmitter. Sequence detection and Channel estimation: Up to O-DU implementation. Refer to 6.4.1.4.2 in [6] for details on SRS sequence generation at the transmitter. Channel condition in uplink is estimated at the O-DU based on the processing of received SRS. The Phase-Tracking Reference Signal (PT-RS) in uplink is received at the O-DU using the following steps: RE de-mapping: Refer to Subclause 6.4.1.2.2 in [6] for details on RE mapping applied at the transmitter. Sequence detection: Up to O-DU implementation. Refer to Subclause 6.4.1.2.1 in [6] for details on sequence generation at the transmitter. An O-DU AAL profile for 5G NR uplink shall specify a set of accelerated functions corresponding to one or more than one physical uplink channel(s) and/or physical uplink signal(s). In addition to the processing blocks mentioned above, each of these uplink physical channels/signals may include an additional functional block, viz. IQ decompression, which is implementation specific and may depend on system configuration/capability. Each of these physical channels/signals can be implemented with/without this optional functional block. The AAL Application interface shall expose to the AAL Application whether these functional blocks are supported or not within the AAL Implementation.

### 7.1.2 O-DU Protocol Stack Reference for mMTC
Figure 7.1.2-1 illustrates the building blocks for processing various O-DU PHY layer Downlink (DL) channels and signals (with 7.2-x functional split between O-DU and O-RU) defined by 3GPP in [8] & [9] as part of 4G/5G NR specification. Figure 7.1.2-1: O-DU PHY processing blocks for mMTC Downlink. The O-DU PHY layer in downlink consists of the following physical channels and reference signals:

# 5 • Narrow-band Physical Downlink Shared Channel (NPDSCH).

# 6 • Narrow-band Physical Downlink Control Channel (NPDCCH).

# 7 • Narrow-band Physical Broadcast Channel (NPBCH).

# 8 • Narrow-band Primary Synchronization Signal (NPSS).

# 9 • Narrow-band Secondary Synchronization Signal (NSSS).
- Narrow-band Reference Signal (NRS) and Narrow-band Position Reference Signal (NPRS).

# 11 • Narrow-band Wake-Up Signal (NWUS)
The Narrow-band downlink physical channels (NPDSCH, NPDCCH, NPBCH) carry information originating from higher layers (i.e. layer 2 and above). The Narrow-band downlink physical layer processing of data channel (NPDSCH) carrying transport blocks consists of the following steps: TB CRC attachment: Error detection is provided on each transport block (TB) through a Cyclic Redundancy Check (CRC). Refer to Subclause 6.4 in [9] for details. CRC attachment: CRC attachment is performed according to Subclauses 6.4 of [9] T

# N P D S C H T B ( s )

# B C R C a t t a c h m e n
T a il B it in g C o n v o lu t io n a l C o d in g R a t e m a t c h in g

# C B c o n c a t e n a t io n
S c r a m b lin g M o d u la t io n L a y e r m a p p in g P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p r e s s io n * t

# N P D C C H ( D C I)

# C R C a t t a c h m e n t
T a il B it in g C o n v o lu t io n a l C o d in g R a t e m a t c h in g S c r a m b lin g M o d u la t io n ( Q P S K ) P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p r e s s io n *

# O - R A N F H ( 7 - 2

# L 2 +

# N P B C H T B

# P B C H p a y lo a d
g e n e r a t io n

# C R C
a t t a c h m e n t T a il B it in g C o n v o lu t io n a l C o d in g R a t e M a t c h in g

# N P S S / N S

# N R S S c r a m b lin g
S e q u e n M o d u la t io n G e n e r a t L a y e r M a p p in g M o d u la t P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p r e s s io n * x lo w e r la y e r s p lit )

# S S /
c e io n io n IQ

# N P R S / N W U S
S e q u e n c e G e n e r a t io n M o d u la t io n P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
c o m p r e s s io n * Tail-biting Convolutional coding: Refer to Subclauses 6.2 and 5.1.3.1 in [9] for details. Rate matching: Refer to Subclauses 6.4 in [9] for details. Scrambling: Refer to Subclause 10.2.5.2 in [8] for details. Modulation: Refer to Subclause 10.2.5.3 in [8] for details. Layer mapping: Refer to Subclause 10.2.5.3in [8] for details. RE mapping: Refer to Subclause 10.2.5.5in [8] for details on Resource Element (RE) mapping. The downlink physical layer processing of control channel (PDCCH) carrying Downlink Control Information (DCI) consists of the following steps: CRC attachment: Error detection is provided on DCI transmissions through a Cyclic Redundancy Check (CRC). Refer to Subclause 6.4 in [9] for details. Tail-biting Convolutional coding: Refer to Subclauses 6.2 and 5.1.3.1 in [9] for details. Scrambling: Refer to Subclause 10.2.5.2 in [8] for details. Modulation: Refer to Subclause 10.2.5.3 in [8] for details. Layer mapping: Refer to Subclause 10.2.5.3 in [8] for details. RE mapping: Refer to Subclause 10.2.5.5 in [8] for details on Resource Element (RE) mapping. The downlink physical layer processing of broadcast channel (NPBCH) carrying maximum one transport block consists of the following steps: NPBCH payload generation: Refer to Subclause 6.4.1 in [9] for details. TB CRC attachment: Error detection is provided on each transport block (TB) through a Cyclic Redundancy Check (CRC). Refer to Subclause 6.4 in [9] for details. Scrambling: Refer to Subclause 10.2.5.2 in [8] for details. Modulation: Refer to Subclause 10.2.5.3 in [8] for details. Layer mapping: Refer to Subclause 10.2.5.3 in [8] for details. RE mapping: Refer to Subclause 10.2.5.5 in [8] for details on Resource Element (RE) mapping. The downlink physical signals (NRS, NPSS, NSSS, NPRS, NWUS) correspond to a set of resource elements used by the physical layer but does not carry information originated from higher layers (i.e., layer 2 and above). Reference Signals and Synchronization signals (NPSS/NSSS) are generated using the following steps: Sequence Generation and Modulation and RE mapping: Refer to Subclauses, 10.2.6B (NWUS), 10.2.7.1 (NPSS) and

#### 10.2.7.2 (NSSS), 10.2.6 (NRS), 10.2.6A (NPRS) in [8] for details.
An O-DU AAL profile for 4G NR downlink shall specify a set of accelerated functions corresponding to one or more than one physical downlink channel(s) and/or physical downlink signal(s). In addition to the processing blocks mentioned above, each of these downlink physical channels/signals may include some additional functional blocks (e.g., precoding, IQ compression) which are implementation specific and may also depend on system configurations/capabilities (for example, whether a O-DU is connected to a CAT-A/CAT-B O-RU). Each of these physical channels/signals can be implemented with/without these optional functional blocks. The AAL Application interface shall expose to the AAL Application whether these functional blocks are supported or not within the AAL Implementation. Figure 7.1.2-2 illustrates the building blocks for processing various O-DU PHY layer Uplink (UL) channels and signals (with 7.2-x functional split between O-DU and O-RU) defined by 3GPP in [8] & [9] as part of 4G/5G NR specification.

# N P U S C H

# C R C c h e c k
T u r b o d e c o d in g R a t e d e m a t c h in g D e s c r a m b lin g D e m o d u la t io n L a y e r D e m a p p in g

# O F D M
C h a n n e l e q u a l i z a t i o n C h a n n e l e s t im a t io n

# R E d e m a p p in g

# I Q
d e c o m p r e s s io n *

# D M
d F R e Ro E E c S w it h P U r m a t 1 a n F o r m a t 2 C h a n n e l s t im a t io n d e m a p p in

# I Q
o m p r e s s io

# O - R A N F H

# S C H
d g n * ( 7 - 2 L x

# P U S C H F o r m a t 2

# U C I

# A C - N A C K d e t e c t i o n
C h a n n e l d e c o d in g R a t e d e m a t c h in g D e s c r a m b l i n g D e m o d u la t io n C h a n n e l e q u a liz a t io C h a n n e l e s t im a t io n

# R E d e m a p p in g

# I Q d e c o m p r e s s io n *
lo w e r la y e r s p lit ) n d N d e o R R e

# N P R A C H
P r e a m b le d e t e c t io n + la y e s t im a t io P e a k s e a r c h is e e s t im a t io

# I F F T
o o t s e q u e n c e c o r r e la t io n E d e m a p p in g

# I Q
c o m p r e s s io n n n * Figure 7.1.2-2: O-DU PHY processing blocks for mMTC Uplink The O-DU PHY layer in uplink consists of the following physical channels and reference signals:

# 4 • Narrow-band Physical Uplink Shared Channel (NPUSCH).

# 5 • Narrow-band Physical Random-Access Channel (NPRACH).
The uplink physical channels (NPUSCH, NPRACH) carry information originating from higher layers (i.e., layer 2 and above). The uplink physical layer processing of shared channel (NPUSCH) carrying uplink data with or without Uplink Control Information (UCI) consists of the following steps at the receiver (O-DU): RE (de)mapping: Refer to Subclauses 5.3.4 of [8] for details on RE mapping at the transmitter/receiver.

# 11 Channel estimation and equalization: up to O-DU implementation.
Transform precoding (IDFT): optional, only required for DFT-s-OFDM waveform. Refer to Subclause 5.3.3A of [8] for details on transform precoding (if applicable) applied at the transmitter. Demodulation: Refer to Subclause 5.3.2 in [8] for details on modulation applied at the transmitter. Descrambling: Refer to Subclause 5.3.1 in [8] for details on scrambling applied at the transmitter. Rate de-matching: Refer to Subclause 5.1.4.1 in [9] for details on rate matching applied at the transmitter. Turbo decoding: Refer to Subclause 5.1.3.2 in [9] for details on Turbo decoding applied at the transmitter. CRC check: Refer to Subclauses 5.1.1 in [9] for details on TB and CB level CRC attachments applied at the transmitter. The uplink physical layer processing for shared channel (NPUSCH) carrying UCI depends on NPUSCH formats. An O-DU AAL profile for 4G/5G NR uplink shall specify a set of accelerated functions corresponding to one or more than one physical uplink channel(s) and/or physical uplink signal(s). In addition to the processing blocks mentioned above, each of these uplink physical channels/signals may include an additional functional block, viz. IQ decompression, which is implementation specific and may depend on system configuration/capability. Each of these physical channels/signals can be implemented with/without this optional functional block. The AAL Application interface shall expose to the AAL Application whether these functional blocks are supported or not within the AAL Implementation.

### 7.1.3 O-DU AAL Profile Definitions
O-DU AAL profiles are defined below with future specification(s) to define the AAL Application interface for each profile.

# 14 7.1.3.1 Profile Definitions General Guidelines

# 15 7.1.3.1.1 Naming
As discussed above O-DU AAL profiles are specific to one or more physical channel(s) or signal(s) as such should follow the naming guidelines
- O-DU AAL profiles shall be prefixed with “AAL_”
- O-DU AAL profiles when specific to a single channel or signal shall include the channel or signal in the name
e.g. “AAL_PUSCH”
- O-DU AAL profiles when common across multiple channels or signals shall not include the channel or signal
name, instead just reference the Accelerated Function(s), e.g. AAL_RE-MAPPING
- O-DU AAL profiles that include a subset of the functional blocks within a channel or signal shall include a
functional description after the channel name e.g. AAL_PUSCH_CHANNEL_ESTIMATION

# 26 7.1.3.1.2 Data Flow
O-DU AAL profiles shall specify the data flow supported by the AAL Profile. Look aside data flow implies the remaining functions not included in the Profile that comprise the channel or signal are implemented on the AAL Application or other entity associated with the AAL Application and not implemented in the

# 30 HW Accelerator.
Inline data flow implies that the signal (with a 7-2x PHY functional split) and the IQ data from the AAL Application (in DL) or the decoded bits (in UL) (post processing) are transferred directly from the HW Accelerator to the Fronthaul interface (in DL) or to the AAL Application (in UL). The profile shall specify if the data flow includes only user plane, or only control plane, or both.

# 4 Figure 7.1.3.2.1-1: AAL_MU-MIMO_PRECODER_WEIGHTS_CALC
The AAL_MU-MIMO_PRECODER_WEIGHTS_CALC is used by AAL Application to offload beamforming (precoding) weight calculation to the hardware accelerator (HWA) in look-aside acceleration mode. The AAL Application shall provide HWA with all the information required to calculate precoding weights. This profile is implemented as a look aside accelerator. The below figure shows an example use of the AAL_MU-MIMO_PRECODER_WEIGHTS_CALC in an O-DU with

# 10 AAL_DOWNLINK_HIGH-PHY and AAL_UPLINK_HIGH-PHY
LPc ora o k - a o f ile l c u l a s i d e A f o r p r t io n

# A L
e c o W d e r P e i g rhF et csu o Cn d c eat rlc i o / Bun Fla t A io A n H L W

# G P
A A P p c / C p l c e P ic le U a r t i o a t o n H r i g h P H Y P r o f I n P r d a il e l i n o f t a ei l p H i e f o a t h g h P r s l p r o h y A o t l e v c e d u Aer e l L

# 12 Figure 7.1.3.2.1-2: Example AAL_MU-MIMO_PRECODER_WEIGHTS_CALC use.

# P U S C H

# U L d a ta

# T B C R C c h e ck

# C B C R C + C B
d e s e g m e n ta tio n

# L D P C d e c o d in g
R a te d e m a tc h in g

# C B
d e c o n c a te n ta tio n D e sc ra m b lin g D e m o d u la tio n ID F T fo r D F T -s -

# O F D M
C h a n n e l e q u a liza tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n *

# P U C C H fo rm a t 0

# U C I
S e q u e n c e d e te ctio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n *

# P U C C H fo rm a t 1

# U C I
D e m o d u la tio n C h a n n e l e q u a liza tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n *

# O -R A N

# L 2 +

# P U C C H fo rm a t 2 / 3 / 4

# U C I

# C R C c h e ck
P o la r/B lo ck d e co d in g R a te d e m a tc h in g D e sc ra m b lin g D e m o d u la tio n ID F T fo r D F T -s -

# O F D M
C h a n n e l e q u a liz a tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re ssio n *

# F H (7 -2 x lo w e r la y e r sp lit)

# P R A C H
P re a m b le d e te ctio n + d e la y e stim a tio n P e a k se a rc h N o is e e stim a tio n IF F T R o o t se q u e n c e c o rre la tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n * d R e

# S R S
C h a n n e l e stim a tio n E d e m a p p in IQ c o m p re s sio g n * d R e E c

# P T -R S
S e q u e n c e d e te ctio n d e m a p p in g IQ o m p re s sio n *

# 3 Figure 7.1.3.2.2-1: AAL_FFT
The AAL_FFT is used by application to offload FFT/iFFT processing to the hardware accelerator (HWA) in look- aside acceleration mode. The application shall provide HW Accelerator with all the information required to perform the FFT operations. The AAL_FFT Profile can be used for 3GPP specification 38.211 clause 5.3, and clause 6.4.1.4. The below list and Figure 7.1.3.2.2-1: AAL_FFT highlights the set of accelerated functions that define the AAL_FFT Profile.

# 8 • Zero Padding

# 9 • iDFT

# 10 • Windowing

# 11 • DFT

# 12 • De padding

# 13 • Timing Error Correction

# 14 • Frequency De-Windowing

# 15 • Frequency Re-Sampling
The below figure shows an example use of the AAL_FFT Profile for accelerating the SRS processing in an O-DU. The highlighted blocks show the set the accelerated functions while the clear blocks are implemented in software. Zadoff-Chu, RB/ Comb Extraction Zero Padding L2 + iDFT Ncs Windowing SRS Channel Ncs DFT estimation RE demapping Depadding IQ Time Error decompression* Correction* O-RAN FH (7-2x lower layer split) De-windowing* FFT Power* Freq re-sample* SNR and Channel Estimate. Note The figure represents the two data outputs from the profile, the FFT Power estimate and the frequency samples. Note The figure is a representative example implementation of SRS Channel estimation only

# 5 Figure 7.1.3.2.2-2: AAL_FFT example for SRS Processing
This profile is implemented as a look aside accelerator.

# 7 7.1.3.3 O-DU AAL Profiles for Downlink

# 8 7.1.3.3.1 AAL_PDSCH_FEC
Figure 7.1.3.3.1-1 highlights the set of accelerated functions that define the AAL_PDSCH_FEC Profile. These include:

# 10 • CRC Generation

# 11 • LDPC Encoding

# 12 • PDSCH Rate Matching
The AAL_PDSCH_FEC Profile is implemented as a look aside accelerator. The AAL_PDSCH_FEC Profile will support both Transport Block and Code Block operations. C

# P D S C H T B (s )

# T B C R C
a tt a c h m e n t B se g m e n ta tio n + C B

# C R C a tta c h m e n t

# L D P C e n c o d in g
R a te m a t c h in g

# C B c o n c a te n a t io n

# P D S C H D M -R
S c r a m b lin g S e q u e n c e g e n e ra tio n M o d u la t io n M o d u la t io n L a y e r m a p p in g P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p re s s io n * S

# L 2 +

# P D C C H (D C I)

# C R C a tt a c h m e n t
P o la r e n c o d in g

# P D C C H D M -R S R a t e m a tc h in g
S e q u e n c e S c r a m b lin g g e n e ra tio n M o d u la t io n M o d u la t io n (Q P S K ) P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p re s s io n *

# O -R A N F H (7 -2 x lo w e r la y e r s p

# P B C H T B

# P B C H p a y lo a d
g e n e ra tio n S c r a m b lin g

# T B C R C
a tta c h m e n t P o la r e n c o d in g

# P S S / S S S
R a t e m a tc h in g P B C H D M -R S D a ta S e q u e n c e s c r a m b lin g G e n e r a tio n M o d u la t io n M o d u la t io n (Q P S K ) P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p re s s io n * lit)

# C S
IQ I-R S / P T -R S / T R S S e q u e n c e G e n e r a tio n M o d u la t io n P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
c o m p re s s io n *

# 3 7.1.3.3.2 AAL_PDSCH_HIGH-PHY
Figure 7.1.3.3.2-1 highlights the set of accelerated functions that defines the AAL_PDSCH_HIGH-PHY Profile, which includes the processing of PDSCH TB(s) and associated DM-RS. The set of accelerated functions associated with the processing of PDSCH TB(s) is as follows:

# 7 • TB CRC attachment

# 8 • CB segmentation and CRC attachment

# 9 • LDPC encoding

# 10 • Rate matching

# 11 • CB concatenation

# 12 • Scrambling

# 13 • Modulation

# 14 • Layer mapping

# 15 • Precoding 1

# 16 • RE mapping

# 17 • IQ compression1
Configurable functional block, depends on implementation and/or system configuration The set of accelerated functions associated with the processing of PDSCH DM-RS is as follows:

# 3 • PDSCH DM-RS sequence generation

# 4 • Modulation

# 5 • Precoding1

# 6 • RE mapping

# 7 • IQ compression1
The AAL_PDSCH_HIGH-PHY Profile is executed in inline acceleration mode.

# P D S C H T B (s )

# T B C R C
a tt a c h m e n t

# C B s e g m e n ta t io n +

# C R C a tta c h m e n t

# L D P C e n c o d in g
R a te m a t c h in g

# C B c o n c a t e n a tio n
S c r a m b lin g M o d u la t io n L a y e r m a p p in g P r e c o d in

# R E m a p p

# I Q c o m p r e s

# P D S C H D M -R
S e q u e n c e g e n e r a t io n M o d u la t io n g * in g s io n * S

# L 2 +

# P D C C H (D C I)

# C R C a tt a c h m e n t
P o la r e n c o d in g

# P D C C H D M -R S R a t e m a tc h in g
S e q u e n c e S c r a m b lin g g e n e ra tio n M o d u la t io n M o d u la t io n (Q P S K ) P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p re s s io n *

# O -R A N F H (7 -2 x lo w e r la y e r s p

# P B C H T B

# P B C H p a y lo a d
g e n e ra tio n S c r a m b lin g

# T B C R C
a tta c h m e n t P o la r e n c o d in g

# P S S / S S S
R a t e m a tc h in g P B C H D M -R S D a ta S e q u e n c e s c r a m b lin g G e n e r a tio n M o d u la t io n M o d u la t io n (Q P S K ) P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p re s s io n * lit)

# C S
IQ I-R S / P T -R S / T R S S e q u e n c e G e n e r a tio n M o d u la t io n P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
c o m p re s s io n *

# 12 Figure 7.1.3.3.2-1: AAL_PDSCH_HIGH-PHY Profile

# 13 7.1.3.3.3 AAL_PDCCH_HIGH-PHY
Figure 7.1.3.3.3-1 highlights the set of accelerated functions that defines the AAL_PDCCH_HIGH-PHY Profile, which includes the processing of PDCCH DCI and associated DM-RS. The set of accelerated functions associated with the processing of PDCCH TB(s) is as follows:

# 17 • CRC attachment

# 18 • Polar encoding

# 19 • Rate matching

# 20 • Scrambling

# 21 • Modulation (QPSK)

# 3 • IQ compression1
The set of accelerated functions associated with the processing of PDCCH DM-RS is as follows:

# 6 • PDCCH DM-RS sequence generation

# 7 • Modulation

# 8 • Precoding1

# 9 • RE mapping

# 10 • IQ compression1
The AAL_PDCCH_HIGH-PHY Profile is executed in inline acceleration mode.

# P D S C H T B (s )

# T B C R C a t ta c h m e n t

# C B s e g m e n ta tio n +

# C R C a tt a c h m e n t

# L D P C e n c o d in g
R a t e m a tc h in g

# C B c o n c a te n a t io n
P S c r a m b lin g M o d u la t io n L a y e r m a p p in g P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p re s s io n

# D S C H D M -R
S e q u e n c e g e n e ra tio n M o d u la t io n * S P R

# L 2 +

# P D C C H (D C I)

# C R C
a tt a c h m e n t o la r e n c o d in g

# P D C C H D M -R S a te m a t c h in g
S e q u e n c e S c r a m b lin g g e n e r a t io n M o d u la t io n M o d u la t io n (Q P S K ) P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g

# I Q c o m p r e s s io n *

# O -R A N F H (7 -2 x lo w e r la y e r s p

# P B C H T B

# P B C H p a y lo a d
g e n e ra tio n S c r a m b lin g

# T B C R C
a tta c h m e n t P o la r e n c o d in g

# P S S / S S S
R a t e m a tc h in g P B C H D M -R S D a ta S e q u e n c e s c r a m b lin g G e n e r a tio n M o d u la t io n M o d u la t io n (Q P S K ) P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p re s s io n * lit)

# C S
IQ I-R S / P T -R S / T R S S e q u e n c e G e n e r a tio n M o d u la t io n P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
c o m p re s s io n *

# 13 Figure 7.1.3.3.3-1: AAL_PDCCH_HIGH-PHY Profile

# 14 7.1.3.3.4 AAL_PBCH_HIGH-PHY
Figure 7.1.3.3.4-1 highlights the set of accelerated functions that defines the AAL_PBCH_HIGH-PHY Profile, which includes the processing of PBCH TB and associated DM-RS, PSS and SSS, or in other words, the processing of SSB. The set of accelerated functions associated with the processing of PBCH TB is as follows:

# 18 • PBCH payload generation

# 19 • Scrambling

# 20 • TB CRC attachment

# 21 • Polar encoding

# 3 • Modulation (QPSK)

# 4 • Precoding1

# 5 • RE mapping

# 6 • IQ compression1
The set of accelerated functions associated with the processing of PBCH DM-RS/PSS/SSS is as follows:

# 9 • PDCCH DM-RS/PSS/SSS sequence generation

# 10 • Modulation

# 11 • Precoding1

# 12 • RE mapping

# 13 • IQ compression1
The AAL_PBCH_HIGH-PHY Profile is executed in inline acceleration mode.

# P D S C H T B (s )

# T B C R C a t ta c h m e n t

# C B s e g m e n ta tio n +

# C B C R C a tt a c h m e n t

# L D P C e n c o d in g
R a t e m a tc h in g

# C B c o n c a te n a t io n

# P D S C H D M -R
S c r a m b lin g S e q u e n c e g e n e ra tio n M o d u la t io n M o d u la t io n L a y e r m a p p in g P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p re s s io n * S

# L 2 +

# P D C C H (D C I)

# C R C a tt a c h m e n t
P o la r e n c o d in g

# P D C C H D M -R S R a t e m a tc h in g
S e q u e n c e S c r a m b lin g g e n e ra tio n M o d u la t io n M o d u la t io n (Q P S K ) P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p re s s io n *

# O -R A N F H (7 -2 x lo w e r la y e r s p

# P B C H T B

# P B C H p a y lo a d
g e n e r a tio n S c ra m b lin g

# T B C R C
a tta c h m e n t P o la r e n c o d in g

# P S S / S S S
R a te m a tc h in g P B C H D M -R S D a ta S e q u e n c e s c r a m b lin g G e n e ra tio n M o d u la tio n M o d u la tio n (Q P S K ) P re c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p r e s s io n * lit)

# C S
IQ I-R S / P T -R S / T R S S e q u e n c e G e n e r a tio n M o d u la t io n P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
c o m p re s s io n *

# 17 Figure 7.1.3.3.4-1: AAL_PBCH_HIGH-PHY Profile

# 19 7.1.3.3.5 AAL_CSI-RS_HIGH-PHY
Figure 7.1.3.3.5-1 highlights the set of accelerated functions that defines the AAL_CSI-RS_HIGH-PHY Profile, which includes the following:

# 3 • Precoding1

# 4 • RE mapping

# 5 • IQ compression1
The AAL_CSI-RS_HIGH-PHY Profile is executed in inline acceleration mode.

# P D S C H T B (s )

# T B C R C a t ta c h m e n t

# C B s e g m e n ta tio n +

# C B C R C a tt a c h m e n t

# L D P C e n c o d in g
R a t e m a tc h in g

# C B c o n c a te n a t io n

# P D S C H D M -R
S c r a m b lin g S e q u e n c e g e n e ra tio n M o d u la t io n M o d u la t io n L a y e r m a p p in g P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p re s s io n * S

# L 2 +

# P D C C H (D C I)

# C R C a tt a c h m e n t
P o la r e n c o d in g

# P D C C H D M -R S R a t e m a tc h in g
S e q u e n c e S c r a m b lin g g e n e ra tio n M o d u la t io n M o d u la t io n (Q P S K ) P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p re s s io n *

# O -R A N F H (7 -2 x lo w e r la y e r s p

# P B C H T B

# P B C H p a y lo a d
g e n e ra tio n S c r a m b lin g

# T B C R C
a tta c h m e n t P o la r e n c o d in g

# P S S / S S S
R a t e m a tc h in g P B C H D M -R S D a ta S e q u e n c e s c r a m b lin g G e n e r a tio n M o d u la t io n M o d u la t io n (Q P S K ) P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p re s s io n * lit)

# C S I-R S / P T -R S / T
S e q u e n c e G e n e ra tio n M o d u la tio n P re c o d in g *

# R E M a p p in g
IQ c o m p r e s s io R n S *

# 9 Figure 7.1.3.3.5-1: AAL_CSI-RS_HIGH-PHY Profile

# 11 7.1.3.3.6 AAL_PT-RS-DL_HIGH-PHY
Figure 7.1.3.3.6-1 highlights the set of accelerated functions that defines the AAL_PT-RS-DL_HIGH-PHY Profile, which includes the following:

# 14 • PT-RS sequence generation

# 15 • Modulation

# 16 • Precoding1

# 17 • RE mapping

# 18 • IQ compression1
The AAL_PT-RS-DL_HIGH-PHY Profile is executed in inline acceleration mode.

# P D S C H T B (s )

# T B C R C a t ta c h m e n t

# C B s e g m e n ta tio n +

# C B C R C a tt a c h m e n t

# L D P C e n c o d in g
R a t e m a tc h in g

# C B c o n c a te n a t io n

# P D S C H D M -R
S c r a m b lin g S e q u e n c e g e n e ra tio n M o d u la t io n M o d u la t io n L a y e r m a p p in g P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p re s s io n * S

# L 2 +

# P D C C H (D C I)

# C R C a tt a c h m e n t
P o la r e n c o d in g

# P D C C H D M -R S R a t e m a tc h in g
S e q u e n c e S c r a m b lin g g e n e ra tio n M o d u la t io n M o d u la t io n (Q P S K ) P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p re s s io n *

# O -R A N F H (7 -2 x lo w e r la y e r s p

# P B C H T B

# P B C H p a y lo a d
g e n e ra tio n S c r a m b lin g

# T B C R C
a tta c h m e n t P o la r e n c o d in g

# P S S / S S S
R a t e m a tc h in g P B C H D M -R S D a ta S e q u e n c e s c r a m b lin g G e n e r a tio n M o d u la t io n M o d u la t io n (Q P S K ) P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p re s s io n * lit) IQ

# P T -R S -D L
S e q u e n c e G e n e ra tio n M o d u la tio n P re c o d in g *

# R E M a p p in g
c o m p r e s s io n *

# 3 7.1.3.3.7 AAL_DOWNLINK_HIGH-PHY
Figure 7.1.3.3.7-1 highlights the set of accelerated functions that defines the AAL_DOWNLINK_HIGH-PHY Profile. This profile includes the aggregation of all the individual downlink channel profiles as follows:

# 6 PDSCH
- Data: see list of accelerated functions associated with the processing of PDSCH TB(s), per section 7.1.3.3.2
- DM-RS: see list of accelerated functions associated with the processing of PDSCH DM-RS, per section

# 9 7.1.3.3.2.
- PT-RS: see list of accelerated functions listed in section 7.1.3.3.6.

# 12 PDCCH:
- Data: see list of accelerated functions associated with the processing of PDCCH TB(s), per section 7.1.3.3.3
- DM-RS: see list of accelerated functions associated with the processing of PDCCH DM-RS, per section

# 15 7.1.3.3.3

# 17 SSB:
- PSS + SSS: see list of accelerated functions associated with the processing of PSS/SSS, per section 7.1.3.3.4
- PBCH DM-RS: see list of accelerated functions associated with the processing of PBCH DM-RS, per section

# 20 7.1.3.3.4
- PBCH: see list of accelerated functions associated with the processing of PBCH TB(s), per section 7.1.3.3.4

# 23 CSI-RS:
- see list of accelerated functions listed in section 7.1.3.3.5
The AAL_DOWNLINK_HIGH-PHY Profile is executed in inline acceleration mode.

# P D S C H T B (s )

# T B C R C
a tt a c h m e n t

# C B s e g m e n ta t io n +

# C R C a tta c h m e n t

# L D P C e n c o d in g
R a te m a t c h in g

# C B c o n c a t e n a tio n
S c r a m b lin g M o d u la t io n L a y e r m a p p in g P r e c o d in

# R E m a p p

# I Q c o m p r e s

# P D S C H D M -R
S e q u e n c e g e n e r a t io n M o d u la t io n g * in g s io n * S C P R

# L 2 +

# P D C C H (D C I)

# R C a tta c h m e n t
o la r e n c o d in g

# P D C C H D M -R S a te m a t c h in g
S e q u e n c e S c r a m b lin g g e n e r a t io n M o d u la t io n M o d u la t io n (Q P S K ) P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g

# I Q c o m p r e s s io n *

# O -R A N F H (7 -2 x lo w e r la y e r s p

# P B C H T B

# P B C H p a y lo a d
g e n e r a tio n S c r a m b lin g

# T B C R C
a tt a c h m e n t P o la r e n c o d in g

# P S S / S S S
R a te m a tc h in g P B C H D M -R S D a ta S e q u e n c e s c r a m b lin g G e n e r a tio n M o d u la t io n M o d u la t io n (Q P S K ) P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g

# I Q c o m p r e s s io n *
lit)

# C S I-R S / P T -R S / T
S e q u e n c e G e n e ra tio n M o d u la tio n P re c o d in g *

# R E M a p p in g
IQ c o m p r e s s io R n S *

# 3 7.1.3.4 O-DU AAL Profiles for Uplink

# 4 7.1.3.4.1 AAL_PUSCH_FEC
Figure 7.1.3.4.1-1 highlights the set of accelerated functions that define the AAL_PUSCH_FEC Profile. These include:

# 6 • PUSCH Rate De-matching

# 7 • LDPC Decoder

# 8 • CRC Check
The AAL_PUSCH_FEC Profile is implemented as a look aside accelerator. The AAL_PUSCH_FEC Profile will support both Transport Block and Code Block operations.

# P U S C H

# U L d a ta

# T B C R C c h e c k

# C B C R C + C B
d e se g m e n ta tio n

# L D P C d e c o d in g
R a te d e m a tc h in g

# C B
d e c o n c a te n ta tio n D e sc ra m b lin g D e m o d u la tio n ID F T fo r D F T -s -

# O F D M
C h a n n e l e q u a liza tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n *

# P U C C H fo rm a t 0

# U C I
S e q u e n c e d e te ctio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n *

# P U C C H fo rm a t 1

# U C I
D e m o d u la tio n C h a n n e l e q u a liza tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n *

# O -R A N

# L 2 +

# P U C C H fo rm a t 2 / 3 / 4

# U C I

# C R C c h e ck
P o la r/B lo ck d e co d in g R a te d e m a tc h in g D e sc ra m b lin g D e m o d u la tio n ID F T fo r D F T -s -O F D M C h a n n e l e q u a liz a tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re ssio n *

# F H (7 -2 x lo w e r la y e r sp lit)

# P R A C H
P re a m b le d e te ctio n + d e la y e stim a tio n P e a k se a rc h N o is e e stim a tio n IF F T R o o t se q u e n c e c o rre la tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n * d R e

# S R S
C h a n n e l e stim a tio n E d e m a p p in IQ c o m p re s sio g n * d R e E c

# P T -R S
S e q u e n c e d e te ctio n d e m a p p in g IQ o m p re s sio n *

# 3 7.1.3.4.2 AAL_PUSCH_HIGH-PHY
Figure 7.1.3.4.2-1 highlights the set of accelerated functions that defines the AAL_PUSCH_HIGH-PHY Profile, which includes the processing of PUSCH data (with or without UCI). The set of accelerated functions associated with the processing of PUSCH data is as follows:

# 7 • IQ decompression1

# 8 • RE de-mapping

# 9 • Channel estimation

# 10 • Channel equalization
- Transform precoding (optional- only required for DFT-s-OFDM waveform)

# 12 • Demodulation

# 13 • Descrambling

# 14 • Rate de-matching

# 15 • LDPC decoding

# 16 • CRC check
The AAL_PUSCH_HIGH-PHY Profile is executed in inline acceleration mode.

# P U S C H

# U L d a ta

# T B C R C c h e c k

# C B C R C + C B
d e se g m e n ta tio n

# L D P C d e c o d in g
R a te d e m a tc h in g

# C B
d e c o n c a te n ta tio n D e sc r a m b lin g D e m o d u la tio n ID F T fo r D F T -s -

# O F D M
C h a n n e l e q u a liz a tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p r e ssio n *

# P U C C H fo rm a t 0

# U C I
S e q u e n c e d e te ctio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n *

# P U C C H fo rm a t 1

# U C I
D e m o d u la tio n C h a n n e l e q u a liza tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n *

# O -R A N

# L 2 +

# P U C C H fo rm a t 2 / 3 / 4

# U C I

# C R C c h e ck
P o la r/B lo ck d e co d in g R a te d e m a tc h in g D e sc ra m b lin g D e m o d u la tio n ID F T fo r D F T -s -O F D M C h a n n e l e q u a liz a tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re ssio n *

# F H (7 -2 x lo w e r la y e r sp lit)

# P R A C H
P re a m b le d e te ctio n + d e la y e stim a tio n P e a k se a rc h N o is e e stim a tio n IF F T R o o t se q u e n c e c o rre la tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n * d R e

# S R S
C h a n n e l e stim a tio n E d e m a p p in IQ c o m p re s sio g n * d R e E c

# P T -R S
S e q u e n c e d e te ctio n d e m a p p in g IQ o m p re s sio n *

# 3 Figure 7.1.3.4.2-1 : AAL_PUSCH_HIGH-PHY Profile

# 5 7.1.3.4.3 AAL_PUCCH_HIGH-PHY
Figure 7.1.3.4.3.1-1, Figure 7.1.3.4.3.2-1 and Figure 7.1.3.4.3.2-1 highlight the set of accelerated functions that defines the AAL_PUCCH_HIGH-PHY Profile, which includes the processing of UCI. The set of accelerated functions associated with the processing of PUCCH UCI depends on the PUCCH format being configured by the AAL Application.

# 10 7.1.3.4.3.1 PUCCH format 0
The set of accelerated functions associated with the processing of PUCCH UCI using PUCCH format 0 is as follows:

# 12 • IQ decompression1

# 13 • RE de-mapping

# 14 • Sequence detection

# P U S C H

# U L d a ta

# T B C R C c h e ck

# C B C R C + C B
D e se g m e n ta tio n

# L D P C d e c o d in g
R a te d e m a tc h in g

# C B
D e c o n c a te n a tio n D e sc ra m b lin g D e m o d u la tio n ID F T fo r D F T -s -

# O F D M
C h a n n e l e q u a liza tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n *

# P U C C H fo rm a t 0

# U C I
S e q u e n c e d e te c tio n

# R E m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p r e ssio n *

# P U C C H fo rm a t 1

# U C I
D e m o d u la tio n C h a n n e l e q u a liza tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n *

# O -R A N

# L 2 +

# P U C C H fo rm a t 2 / 3 / 4

# U C I

# C R C c h e ck
P o la r/B lo ck d e co d in g R a te d e m a tc h in g D e sc ra m b lin g D e m o d u la tio n ID F T fo r D F T -s -O F D M C h a n n e l e q u a liz a tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re ssio n *

# F H (7 -2 x lo w e r la y e r sp lit)

# P R A C H
P re a m b le d e te ctio n + d e la y e stim a tio n P e a k se a rc h N o is e e stim a tio n IF F T R o o t se q u e n c e c o rre la tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n * d R e

# S R S
C h a n n e l e stim a tio n E d e m a p p in IQ c o m p re s sio g n * d R e E c

# P T -R S
S e q u e n c e d e te ctio n d e m a p p in g IQ o m p re s sio n *

# 4 7.1.3.4.3.2 PUCCH format 1
The set of accelerated functions associated with the processing of PUCCH UCI using PUCCH format 1 is as follows:

# 6 • IQ decompression1

# 7 • RE de-mapping

# 8 • Channel estimation

# 9 • Channel equalization

# 10 • Demodulation

# P U S C H

# U L d a ta

# T B C R C c h e ck

# C B C R C + C B
D e se g m e n ta tio n

# L D P C d e c o d in g
R a te d e m a tc h in g

# C B
D e c o n c a te n a tio n D e sc ra m b lin g D e m o d u la tio n ID F T fo r D F T -s -

# O F D M
C h a n n e l e q u a liza tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n *

# P U C C H fo rm a t 0

# U C I
S e q u e n c e d e te ctio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n *

# P U C C H fo rm a t 1

# U C I
D e m o d u la tio n C h a n n e l e q u a liz a tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p r e ssio n *

# O -R A N

# L 2 +

# P U C C H fo rm a t 2 / 3 / 4

# U C I

# C R C c h e ck
P o la r/B lo ck d e co d in g R a te d e m a tc h in g D e sc ra m b lin g D e m o d u la tio n ID F T fo r D F T -s -O F D M C h a n n e l e q u a liz a tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re ssio n *

# F H (7 -2 x lo w e r la y e r sp lit)

# P R A C H
P re a m b le d e te ctio n + d e la y e stim a tio n P e a k se a rc h N o is e e stim a tio n IF F T R o o t se q u e n c e c o rre la tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n * d R e

# S R S
C h a n n e l e stim a tio n E d e m a p p in IQ c o m p re s sio g n * d R e E c

# P T -R S
S e q u e n c e d e te ctio n d e m a p p in g IQ o m p re s sio n *

# 4 7.1.3.4.3.3 PUCCH format 2/3/4
The set of accelerated functions associated with the processing of PUCCH UCI using PUCCH format 2/3/4 is as follows:

# 7 • IQ decompression1

# 8 • RE de-mapping

# 9 • Channel estimation

# 10 • Channel equalization
- Transform precoding (optional- only required for DFT-s-OFDM waveform)

# 12 • Demodulation

# 13 • Descrambling

# 14 • Rate de-matching

# 15 • Polar/Block decoding

# 16 • CRC check

# P U S C H

# U L d a ta

# T B C R C c h e ck

# C B C R C + C B
D e se g m e n ta tio n

# L D P C d e c o d in g
R a te d e m a tc h in g

# C B
D e c o n c a te n a tio n D e sc ra m b lin g D e m o d u la tio n ID F T fo r D F T -s -

# O F D M
C h a n n e l e q u a liza tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n *

# P U C C H fo rm a t 0

# U C I
S e q u e n c e d e te ctio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n *

# P U C C H fo rm a t 1

# U C I
D e m o d u la tio n C h a n n e l e q u a liza tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n *

# O -R A N

# L 2 +

# P U C C H fo rm a t 2 / 3 / 4

# U C I

# C R C c h e c k
P o lar/B lo ck d eco d in g R a te d e m a tc h in g D e sc r a m b lin g D e m o d u la tio n ID F T fo r D F T -s -

# O F D M
C h a n n e l e q u a liz a tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p r e ss io n *

# F H (7 -2 x lo w e r la y e r sp lit)

# P R A C H
P re a m b le d e te ctio n + d e la y e stim a tio n P e a k se a rc h N o is e e stim a tio n IF F T R o o t se q u e n c e c o rre la tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n * d R e

# S R S
C h a n n e l e stim a tio n E d e m a p p in IQ c o m p re s sio g n * d R e E c

# P T -R S
S e q u e n c e d e te ctio n d e m a p p in g IQ o m p re s sio n *

# 3 Figure 7.1.3.4.3.3-1: AAL_PUCCH_HIGH-PHY Profile (PUCCH format 2/3/4)
The AAL_ PUCCH_ HIGH -PHY profile is executed in inline acceleration mode.

# 5 7.1.3.4.4 AAL_PRACH_HIGH-PHY
Figure 7.1.3.4.4-1 highlights the set of accelerated functions that defines the AAL_PRACH_HIGH-PHY Profile. The set of accelerated functions associated with the processing of PRACH preamble is as follows:

# 8 • IQ decompression1

# 9 • RE de-mapping

# 10 • Root sequence generation and correlation

# 11 • IFFT

# 12 • Noise estimation

# 13 • Peak search for power delay profile

# 14 • Preamble detection and delay/timing advance estimation

# P U S C H

# U L d a ta

# T B C R C c h e ck

# C B C R C + C B
D e se g m e n ta tio n

# L D P C d e c o d in g
R a te d e m a tc h in g

# C B
D e c o n c a te n a tio n D e sc ra m b lin g D e m o d u la tio n ID F T fo r D F T -s -

# O F D M
C h a n n e l e q u a liza tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n *

# P U C C H fo rm a t 0

# U C I
S e q u e n c e d e te ctio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n *

# P U C C H fo rm a t 1

# U C I
D e m o d u la tio n C h a n n e l e q u a liza tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n *

# O -R A N

# L 2 +

# P U C C H fo rm a t 2 / 3 / 4

# U C I

# C R C c h e ck
P o la r/B lo ck d e co d in g R a te d e m a tc h in g D e sc ra m b lin g D e m o d u la tio n ID F T fo r D F T -s -O F D M C h a n n e l e q u a liz a tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re ssio n *

# F H (7 -2 x lo w e r la y e r sp lit)

# P R A C H
P rea m b le d etectio n + d ela y estim a tion P e a k se a r c h N oise estim ation IF F T R o o t se q u e n c e c o r r e la tio n

# R E m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p r e ssio n * d R e

# S R S
C h a n n e l e stim a tio n E d e m a p p in IQ c o m p re s sio g n * d R e E c

# P T -R S
S e q u e n c e d e te ctio n d e m a p p in g IQ o m p re s sio n *

# 4 7.1.3.4.5 AAL_SRS_HIGH-PHY
Figure 7.1.3.4.5-1 highlights the set of accelerated functions that defines the AAL_SRS_HIGH-PHY Profile. The set of accelerated functions associated with the processing of SRS is as follows:

# 7 • IQ decompression1

# 8 • RE de-mapping

# 9 • Channel estimation

# P U S C H

# U L d a ta

# T B C R C c h e ck

# C B C R C + C B
D e se g m e n ta tio n

# L D P C d e c o d in g
R a te d e m a tc h in g

# C B
D e c o n c a te n a tio n D e sc ra m b lin g D e m o d u la tio n ID F T fo r D F T -s -

# O F D M
C h a n n e l e q u a liza tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n *

# P U C C H fo rm a t 0

# U C I
S e q u e n c e d e te ctio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n *

# P U C C H fo rm a t 1

# U C I
D e m o d u la tio n C h a n n e l e q u a liza tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n *

# O -R A N

# L 2 +

# P U C C H fo rm a t 2 / 3 / 4

# U C I

# C R C c h e ck
P o la r/B lo ck d e co d in g R a te d e m a tc h in g D e sc ra m b lin g D e m o d u la tio n ID F T fo r D F T -s -O F D M C h a n n e l e q u a liz a tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re ssio n *

# F H (7 -2 x lo w e r la y e r sp lit)

# P R A C H
P re a m b le d e te ctio n + d e la y e stim a tio n P e a k se a rc h N o is e e stim a tio n IF F T R o o t se q u e n c e c o rre la tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n * d

# S R S
C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E m a p p in g
IQ e c o m p r e ssio n * d R e E c

# P T -R S
S e q u e n c e d e te ctio n d e m a p p in g IQ o m p re s sio n *

# 4 7.1.3.4.6 AAL_PT-RS-UL_HIGH-PHY
Figure 7.1.3.4.6-1 highlights the set of accelerated functions that defines the AAL_PT-RS-UL_HIGH-PHY Profile. The set of accelerated functions associated with the processing of PT-RS-UL sequence is as follows:

# 7 • IQ decompression1

# 8 • RE de-mapping

# 9 • Sequence detection

# P U S C H

# U L d a ta

# T B C R C c h e ck

# C B C R C + C B
D e se g m e n ta tio n

# L D P C d e c o d in g
R a te d e m a tc h in g

# C B
D e c o n c a te n a tio n D e sc ra m b lin g D e m o d u la tio n ID F T fo r D F T -s -

# O F D M
C h a n n e l e q u a liza tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n *

# P U C C H fo rm a t 0

# U C I
S e q u e n c e d e te ctio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n *

# P U C C H fo rm a t 1

# U C I
D e m o d u la tio n C h a n n e l e q u a liza tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n *

# O -R A N

# L 2 +

# P U C C H fo rm a t 2 / 3 / 4

# U C I

# C R C c h e ck
P o la r/B lo ck d e co d in g R a te d e m a tc h in g D e sc ra m b lin g D e m o d u la tio n ID F T fo r D F T -s -O F D M C h a n n e l e q u a liz a tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re ssio n *

# F H (7 -2 x lo w e r la y e r sp lit)

# P R A C H
P re a m b le d e te ctio n + d e la y e stim a tio n P e a k se a rc h N o is e e stim a tio n IF F T R o o t se q u e n c e c o rre la tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n * d R e

# S R S
C h a n n e l e stim a tio n E d e m a p p in IQ c o m p re s sio g n * d R e c Sd E o

# P T -R S
e q u e n c e e te c tio n m a p p in g IQ m p r e ssio n *

# 4 7.1.3.4.7 AAL_UPLINK_HIGH-PHY
Figure 7.1.3.4.7-1 highlights the set of accelerated functions that defines the AAL_UPLINK_HIGH-PHY Profile, this profile includes the aggregation of all the individual uplink channel profiles as follows:

# 7 PUSCH:
- Data: see list of accelerated functions associated with the processing of PUSCH data, per section 7.1.3.4.2
- DM-RS: see list of accelerated functions listed in section 7.1.3.4.6, implemented to process DM-RS IQ
samples.
- PT-RS: see list of accelerated functions listed in section 7.1.3.4.6

# 13 PUCCH:
- Format 0: see list of accelerated functions listed in section 7.1.3.4.3.1

# 15 • Format 1:
o UCI: see list of accelerated functions listed in section 7.1.3.4.3.2 o DM-RS: see list of accelerated functions listed in section 7.1.3.4.6, implemented to process DM-RS

# 18 IQ samples.

# 19 • Formats 2/3/4:
o UCI: see list of accelerated functions listed in section 7.1.3.4.3.3 o DM-RS: see list of accelerated functions listed in section 7.1.3.4.6, implemented to process DM-RS

# 22 IQ samples.

# 24 PRACH:
- see list of accelerated functions listed in section 7.1.3.4.4

# P U S C H

# U L d a ta

# T B C R C c h e c k

# C B C R C + C B
d e se g m e n ta tio n

# L D P C d e c o d in g
R a te d e m a tc h in g

# C B
d e c o n c a te n ta tio n D e sc r a m b lin g D e m o d u la tio n ID F T fo r D F T -s -

# O F D M
C h a n n e l e q u a liz a tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p r e ssio n *

# P U C C H fo rm a t 0

# U C I
S e q u e n c e d e te c tio n

# R E m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p r e ssio n *

# P U C C H fo rm a t 1

# U C I
D e m o d u la tio n C h a n n e l e q u a liz a tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p r e ssio n *

# O -R A N F

# L 2 +

# P U C C H fo rm a t 2 / 3 / 4

# U C I

# C R C c h e c k
P o lar/B lo ck d eco d in g R a te d e m a tc h in g

# P R A C H
D e sc r a m b lin g P rea m b le d etectio n + d ela y estim a tion D e m o d u la tio n ID F T fo r D F T -s - P e a k se a r c h

# O F D M
N oise estim ation C h a n n e l e q u a liz a tio n IF F T R o o t se q u e n c e C h a n n e l e stim a tio n c o r r e la tio n

# R E m a p p in g R E m a p p in g
IQ IQ d e c o m p r e ss io n * d e c o m p r e ssio n *

# H (7 -2 x lo w e r la y e r sp lit)
d

# S R S
C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E m a p p in g
IQ e c o m p r e ssio n * d R e c Sd E o

# P T -R S
e q u e n c e e te c tio n m a p p in g IQ m p r e ssio n *

# 7 Figure 7.1.3.4.7-1: AAL_UPLINK_ HIGH-PHY Profile

# 9 7.1.3.5 O-DU AAL Profiles for mMTC

# 10 7.1.3.5.1 AAL_NPDSCH_FEC
Figure 7.1.3.5.1-1: highlights the set of accelerated functions that define the AAL_NPDSCH_FEC Profile. These include:

# 13 • CRC Generation

# 14 • Tail-Biting Convolutional Coding

# 15 • Rate Matching
The AAL_NPDSCH_FEC Profile is implemented as a look aside accelerator. L2+ NPDSCH TB(s) NPBCH TB TB CRC PBCH payload attachment generation CRC Tail Biting attachment Convolutional N PDCCH (DCI) Coding Tail Biting CRC attachment Convolutional Rate matching Tail Biting Coding Convolutional Rate Matching CB concatenation Coding NPSS/NSSS/ Rate matching Scrambling NRS NPRS/NWUS Scrambling Sequence Sequence Scrambling Modulation Generation Generation Modulation Modulation Layer Mapping Modulation Modulation Layer mapping (QPSK) Precoding* Precoding* Precoding* Precoding* RE mapping RE mapping RE mapping RE mapping IQ compression* IQ compression* IQ compression* IQ compression* O-RAN FH (7-2x lower layer split)

# 3 Figure 7.1.3.5.1-1: AAL_NPDSCH_FEC Profile

# 4 7.1.3.5.2 AAL_NPDCCH_FEC
Figure 7.1.3.5.2-1 highlights the set of accelerated functions that define the AAL_NPDCCH_FEC Profile. These include

# 7 • CRC Generation

# 8 • Tail-Biting Convolutional Coding

# 9 • Rate Matching
The AAL_NPDCCH_FEC Profile is implemented as a look aside accelerator. T

# N P D S C H T B ( s )

# B C R C a t t a c h m e n
T a il B it in g C o n v o lu t io n a l C o d in g R a t e m a t c h in g

# C B c o n c a t e n a t io n
S c r a m b lin g M o d u la t io n L a y e r m a p p in g P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p r e s s io n * t N C C R IQ

# P D C C H ( D C I)

# R C a tt a c h m e n t
T a il B i t in g o n v o l u t i o n a l C o d i n g a t e m a t c h in g S c r a m b lin g M o d u la t io n ( Q P S K ) P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
c o m p r e s s io n *

# O - R A N F H ( 7 - 2

# L 2 +

# N P B C H T B

# P B C H p a y lo a d
g e n e r a t io n

# C R C
a t t a c h m e n t T a il B it in g C o n v o lu t io n a l C o d in g R a t e M a t c h in g

# N P S S / N S S S /

# N R S S c r a m b lin g
S e q u e n c e M o d u la t io n G e n e r a t io n L a y e r M a p p in g M o d u la t io n P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p r e s s io n * x lo w e r la y e r s p lit ) IQ

# N P R S / N W U S
S e q u e n c e G e n e r a t io n M o d u la t io n P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
c o m p r e s s io n *

# 3 7.1.3.5.3 AAL_NPBCH_FEC
Figure 7.1.3.5.3-1 highlights the set of accelerated functions that define the AAL_NPBCH_FEC Profile. These include

# 5 • CRC Generation

# 6 • Tail-Biting Convolutional Coding

# 7 • Rate Matching
The AAL_NPBCH_FEC Profile is implemented as a look aside accelerator. T

# N P D S C H T B ( s )

# B C R C a t t a c h m e n
T a il B it in g C o n v o lu t io n a l C o d in g R a t e m a t c h in g

# C B c o n c a t e n a t io n
S c r a m b lin g M o d u la t io n L a y e r m a p p in g P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p r e s s io n * t

# N P D C C H ( D C I)

# C R C a t t a c h m e n t
T a il B it in g C o n v o lu t io n a l C o d in g R a t e m a t c h in g S c r a m b lin g M o d u la t io n ( Q P S K ) P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p r e s s io n *

# L 2 +

# N P B C H T B

# P B C H p a y lo a d
g e n e r a t io n

# C R C
a t t a c h m e n t T a il B i t in g C o n v o l u t i o n a l C o d i n g R a t e M a t c h i n g

# N P S S / N S S S /

# N R S S c r a m b lin g
S e q u e n c e M o d u la t io n G e n e r a t io n L a y e r M a p p in g M o d u la t io n P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p r e s s io n * x lo w e r la y e r s p lit ) IQ

# N P R S / N W U S
S e q u e n c e G e n e r a t io n M o d u la t io n P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
c o m p r e s s io n *

# 3 7.1.3.5.4 AAL_NPUSCH_FEC
Figure 7.1.3.5.4-1 highlights the set of accelerated functions that define the AAL_NPUSCH_FEC Profile. These include

# 5 • CRC Generation

# 6 • Turbo Decoding

# 7 • Rate Matching
The AAL_NPUSCH_FEC Profile is implemented as a look aside accelerator. T d

# N P U S C H

# C R C c h e c k
u r b o d e c o d i n g R a t e d e m a t c h in g D e s c r a m b lin g D e m o d u la t io n L a y e r D e m a p p in g

# O F D M
C h a n n e l e q u a liz a t io n C h a n n e l e s t im a t io n

# R E d e m a p p in g

# I Q
e c o m p r e s s io n *

# D M
d F R e Ro E E c S w it h P U r m a t 1 a n F o r m a t 2 C h a n n e l s t im a t io n d e m a p p in

# I Q
o m p r e s s io

# O - R A N F H

# S C H
d g n * ( 7 - 2 L x

# P U S C H F o r m a t 2

# U C I

# A C - N A C K d e t e c t io n
C h a n n e l d e c o d in g R a t e d e m a t c h in g D e s c r a m b lin g D e m o d u la t io n C h a n n e l e q u a liz a t io C h a n n e l e s t im a t io n

# R E d e m a p p in g

# I Q d e c o m p r e s s io n *
lo w e r la y e r s p lit ) n d N d e o R R e

# N P R A C H
P r e a m b le d e t e c t io n + la y e s t im a t io P e a k s e a r c h is e e s t im a t io

# I F F T
o o t s e q u e n c e c o r r e la t io n E d e m a p p in g

# I Q
c o m p r e s s io n n n *

## 7.2 O-CU AAL Profiles
The O-CU AAL profiles shall be part of further study for O-RAN WG6.


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG6.AAL-GAnP-R004-v13.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG6.AAL-GAnP-R004-v13.00 Technical Specification"
---

# 17 Always 2 digits with leading zero if needed.
zz: the third digit-group included only in working versions of the document indicating incremental changes during the editing process. External versions never include the third digit-group. Always 2 digits with leading zero if needed. Modal verbs terminology In the present document "shall", "shall not", "should", "should not", "may", "need not", "will", "will not", "can" and "cannot" are to be interpreted as described in clause 3.2 of the O-RAN Drafting Rules (Verbal forms for the expression of provisions). "must" and "must not" are NOT allowed in O-RAN deliverables except when used in direct citation. 1. Scope This document defines O-RAN O-Cloud hardware accelerator interface functions and protocols for the O-RAN AAL interface. The document studies the functions conveyed over the interface, including configuration and management functions, procedures, operations and corresponding solutions, and identifies existing standards and industry work that can serve as a basis for O-RAN work. 2. References

# 14 VNF Interfaces Specification"
[5] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 019: "Network Function Virtualization (NFV); Acceleration Technologies; Acceleration

# 16 Resource Management Interface Specification; Release 3"
[6] 5G; NR; Physical Channels and Modulation 3GPP TS 38.211 v15.2.0 Release 15 [7] 5G; NR; Multiplexing and Channel Coding 3GPP TS 38.212 v15.2.0 Release 15 [8] LTE; E-UTRA Physical Channels and Modulation 3GPP TS 36.211 v15.2.0 Release 15 [9] LTE; E-UTRA Multiplexing and Channel Coding 3GPP TS36.212 v15.2.1 Release 15 [10] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 001: "Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV); Acceleration Technologies; Report on

# 22 Acceleration Technologies & Use Cases"
[11] O-RAN WG6 O2 General Aspects and Principles [12] O-RAN WG6 Cloudification and Orchestration Use Cases and Requirements for O-RAN Virtualized RAN [13] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 011: "Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV) Release 4; Management and Orchestration;

# 26 VNF Descriptor and Packaging Specification"
[14] ETSI GR NFV-IFA 046: "Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV) Release 5; Architectural Framework;

# 28 Report on NFV support for virtualisation of RAN"
[15] O-RAN WG6 AAL Common API R003 [16] O-RAN WG4 Control, User and Synchronization (CUS) Plane Specification

## 3.1 Terms
For the purpose of this document the terms and definitions given in O-RAN WG6 Cloudification and Orchestration Use Cases (UC) and Requirements for O-RAN Virtualized RAN [13], ETSI GS NFV-IFA 002 [4], and the following apply: Hardware (HW) Accelerator (HWA) is a specialized HW implementation that can offload processing from application(s) running on a General-Purpose Processor. The Hardware (HW) Accelerator is a physical Managed Element as defined in [13].
> NOTE: Examples of Hardware Accelerators include ASIC, FPGA, DSP and GPU.
> NOTE: Throughout this document, the term “Accelerator” and “Hardware (HW) accelerator” are used
interchangeably. Acceleration Abstraction Layer (AAL) specifies a common and consistent set of interfaces used by different entities to enable interaction with different types of HW Accelerators within an O-Cloud instance. AAL Implementation is a realization of an AAL including but not limited to the software libraries, drivers and the

# 14 Hardware Accelerator
Accelerated Function (AF) is a representation of a workload building block that an accelerator processes on behalf of an AAL Application within an O-RAN Network Function in an O-Cloud [1]. AAL Application (AAL-App) is defined as a workload that can offload Accelerated Functions to AAL-LPU(s).
> NOTE: Unless explicitly noted, the term Application refers to an AAL Application in AAL specifications.
> NOTE: Unless explicitly noted, the terms Application, NF Application, L2 Application, VNF/CNF, or NF workload
accessing the AAL in figures of this present document refers to an AAL Application. AAL Profile(s) (AAL-Profile) specify one or more Accelerated Functions that an accelerator processes on behalf of an AAL Application within an O-RAN Network Function in an O-Cloud [1].

# 23 AAL Operations actions supported by the AAL interface.
AAL Profile Instance (AAL-Profile-Instance) is an executing instance of an AAL profile that can be used by an AAL Application via the AAL interface. The AAL-Profile-Instance executes within an AAL-LPU execution environment. AAL Logical Processing Unit (AAL-LPU) is a logical representation of resources within an instance of a HW Accelerator (example: there can be multiple processing units or subsystems on a hardware accelerator, or resource partitioning (hard – dedicated resources, soft – soft resources) and these can be logically represented as a AAL Logical

# 29 Processing Unit)
AAL Profile Queue is a logical grouping construct and may be used by the AAL Application to group operations together. For example, AAL Profile Queues may access specific resources (compute, I/O) of an AAL-LPU executing specific AAL

# 32 Profile Instances(s).
AAL Profile Queue ID is a unique index used to designate the AAL Profile Queue in function exposed by specific AAL profile.
> NOTE: An AAL Profile Queue or an AAL Profile Queue ID does not reflect a HW design or an AAL Implementation
specification HW Accelerator Manager (HAM) is an acceleration management function, that provides management capabilities for the HW Accelerator(s) and the AAL-LPU's in the O-Cloud Node. Management capabilities include but not limited to lifecycle management, configuration, updates/upgrades and failure handling of the HWA and the LPUs. The HAM may use the services of an external software repository to securely transfer approved software artifacts, for example FW/SW images, binaries, libraries and configuration data. The specification of a software repository and the communication with the HAM are outside the scope of O-RAN specifications. The HW Accelerator Manager is considered an O-Cloud

# 43 Platform Software.

## 3.2 Symbols

## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in [i.1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in [i.1] .

# 6 AF Accelerated Function

# 7 AAL Acceleration Abstraction Layer

# 8 AAL-App Acceleration Abstraction Layer - Application

# 9 AAL-LPU Acceleration Abstraction Layer - LPU

# 10 AALI-C Acceleration Abstraction Layer Interface-Common

# 11 AALI-C-Mgmt Acceleration Abstraction Layer Interface-Common-Management

# 12 AALI-C-App Acceleration Abstraction Layer Interface-Common-Application

# 13 AALI-P Acceleration Abstraction Layer Interface-Profile

# 14 BF Beam-forming

# 15 CNF Cloudified Network Function
DFT/iDFT Discrete Fourier Transform / Inverse Discrete Fourier Transform

# 17 DMS Deployment Management Services

# 18 FCAPS Fault, Configuration, Accounting, Performance, Security

# 19 FEC Forward Error Correction
FFT/iFFT Fast Fourier Transform / inverse Fast Fourier Transform

# 21 HWA Hardware Accelerator

# 22 IMS Infrastructure Management Services

# 23 LPU Logical Processing Unit

# 24 RB Resource Block

# 25 SMO Service Management and Orchestration

# 26 UC Use Case

# 27 VNF Virtual Network Function
4. General Aspects

## 4.1 Hardware Acceleration
In the design of digital computing systems, ranging from general-purpose processors to fully customized hardware, there is a tradeoff between flexibility and efficiency, with efficiency increasing by orders of magnitude when any given application is implemented in hardware. The range of implementation options includes general-purpose processors (GPPs) such as CPUs, more specialized processors such as Graphics Processing Units (GPUs), functions implemented on field-programmable gate arrays (FPGAs), and fixed-functions implemented on application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs). Hardware accelerator is a specialized HW implementation that can offload processing from application(s) running on the General-Purpose Processor (GPP). Any transformation of data or computation can be implemented purely in software running on a generic CPU, or purely in a specialized hardware accelerator, or using a combination of both. The implementation of computing tasks in hardware to improve performance is known as hardware acceleration. The hardware acceleration can be implemented in the form of lookaside or inline mode where in the former case, the host CPU invokes an accelerator for data processing and receives the result after processing is complete, while in the latter case, the accelerator, after being invoked by the host CPU with the request for data processing, completes the processing request of data received from a source node and directly transfers the post- processed data to a destination node, where the source or destination node can be different than host CPU (e.g., an Ethernet Interface). The principle of hardware acceleration and functional offloading in lookaside mode and inline is illustrated in Figure 4.1-1, allowing the application to offload workload to a hardware accelerator and to continue performing other work in parallel- this could be to continue to execute other software tasks in parallel or to sleep and wait for the accelerator hardware to complete. The hardware acceleration boosts application performance in environments with compute-intensive, deeply pipelined, massively parallel operations as shown in Figure 4.1-1. This model requires the support of two operations, one for initiating the offload and another for retrieving the operation once complete. A A W it h o u t h

# C P U
W it h h a r L o o k a s id

# C P U
c c e le r a t o r In lin e

# C P U
c c e le r a t o r a d e r w d a w r a e r a e a c c e F u n c 1 c c e le r F u n c 1 F u n c 1 le a r a t io t io n – n – m s e r ia l e a s s iv e ly F F u n c 3 F F u n c 3 x e p u n u n c a c c u t io n F u n c 2 r a lle l e x F u n c 4 F u n c 4 e c u t F u n c F u n c F u n c

# 3 4 5
io n w it h in a n d a c r o s s f u n c t io n s F u n c A c c e le r a t o r h a n d le s c o m p u t e -in t e n s iv e , d e e p p ip e lin e d , m a s s iv e ly p a r a lle l o p e r a t io n s . T h e C h a n d le s o t h e r o p e ra tio n s F u n c ly

# P U
Figure 4.1-1: Example illustration of the effect of hardware acceleration on functional compute performance.

## 4.2 AAL Architecture and concepts

### 4.2.1 Overview
The goal of the acceleration abstraction layer (AAL) is to specify a common and consistent set of interfaces to enable interactions with the HW Accelerators and facilitates decoupling of an AAL Application, from a specific HW implementation. To accommodate the many different combinations of HW and SW implementation and many different network deployment scenarios, the AAL introduces the concept of an AAL profile which is used to distinguish between the different combinations of accelerated functions to be offloaded. The AAL specifications shall define the AAL interface between the AAL Application and AAL Implementation in the O-Cloud instance. This includes the APIs, information models, operations and input/outputs used by the AAL Application to interface with the AAL Implementation. When the AAL APIs are utilized:
- AAL Applications that utilize the AAL APIs render the same functionality as described in the O-RAN
specifications describing the AAL Application [1].
- AAL Applications that utilize the AAL APIs shall preserve the interface definitions and behave the same way
as described in the O-RAN specifications describing those interfaces.
- O-RAN NFs that utilize the AAL APIs shall preserve the synchronization topologies as defined in [16].
In addition, the AAL Specification shall define the requirements for managing the hardware accelerator in the O-Cloud instance. The AAL Implementation itself shall not be defined by the AAL GAnP specification. ETSI GS NFV-IFA 002 [5] defines several abstraction models including pass through and abstracted models that can be used to realize an AAL

# 9 Implementation.

# 10 The AAL specification facilitates the following:
An O-cloud provides the flexibility of deploying multiple software implementations from different software vendors on a common CPU-based (e.g., x86/ARM) platform with hardware accelerators (e.g., FPGA/DSP/ASIC/GPU) for specific functions, and conversely, also allows multiple physical deployment scenarios in terms of centralizing or distributing each network element with the same software implementation. A disaggregated and cloudified multi-vendor RAN requires common vendor-neutral APIs for managed element discovery, lifecycle management, FM/PM, and orchestration across both PNFs and VNFs in order to function as a cohesive unit that supports key lifecycle use cases such as scale-out, slice management, fault tolerance, and hitless software upgrades.

### 4.2.2 AAL Architecture
The end-to-end high-level AAL architecture block diagram is shown in Figure 4.2.2-1. For AAL Applications O1 interface usage is optional. Interaction between DMS and AAL Application is out of the scope of this document. For further understanding of the deployment and operation of AAL-LPUs please refer to section 6.2. Service Management and Orchestration (SMO) Planning, Manifest, Federated O-Cloud artifacts etc.. Network Function Orchestration and Orchestrator (NFO) Management O2ims Including AAL extensions O2dms (e.g. declarative approach) DMS IMS DMS AAL-C-Mgmt AAL AAL AAL Application Application Application AAL-C-App AAL-P Artifacts that describe the AAL Implementation accelerator and AAL AAL AAL it s profile Profile Profile Profile Queue Queue Queue AAAALL P Prorofifliel e AAAALL P Prorofifliel e AAAALL P Prorofilfiel e InInstsatanncece InInstsatanncece InInstsatanncece AAL-LPU0 AAL-LPU0 AAL-LPU0 HW Accelerator Manager HW Accelerator (Physical) O-Cloud Compute Node In scope for WG6 AAL Subgroup Standardized by WG6 O2 Subgroup For Future Study Not specified in O-RAN AAL Note: The diagram shows two scopes to manage accelerators, AAL-C-Mgmt and declarative approach

# 4 Figure 4.2.2-1: High Level AAL Architecture Diagram
Figure 4.2.2-2: shows a pictorial view of the entity relationship and cardinality between AAL entities that constitute the AAL architecture. It is not meant to be the basis of a class diagram or object model which would normally be the start of an information model. Its purpose is just to help the reader mentally conceptualize the concepts depicted. See clause 4.2.4 of the present document for a high-level description of the AAL-C-Mgmt interface and the AAL-C-App interface. See [15] for a detailed description of the specification of the AAL-C-Mgmt, AAL-C-App and declarative interfaces and the operations supported.. AAL Managed Elements and Managed Functions are managed by SMO via the O2 interface exposed by the IMS and DMS using the AALI-C-MGMT interface terminated by the HW Accelerator Manager. Specifically, AAL Managed Elements and Managed Functions do not utilize the O1 interface for management of AAL Managed Elements and

# 15 Managed Functions.
The HW Accelerator, the HW Accelerator Manager, AAL-LPU and AAL drivers are defined as O-Cloud Platform Software for the purposes of management and orchestration [1]. The O-Cloud Infrastructure and O-Cloud Platform Software use case flows in [12] are applicable for these AAL elements.

### 4.2.3 HW Accelerator Manager
The HW Accelerator Manager (HAM) is responsible for exposing a consistent mechanism to the O-Cloud platform for the discovery, lifecycle management, fault, state/status, performance, configuration, updates/upgrades, and error handling of the HW Accelerator(s) that are part of the O-Cloud Platform Hardware. The HW Accelerator Manager exposes the AALI-C-Mgmt interface towards the IMS. The interfaces between the HW Accelerator and the HAM are vendor specific and not in the scope of AAL specifications. The HW Accelerator Manager is managed by IMS as per Figure 4.2.2-1: High Level AAL Architecture Diagram of this document. The identifier of the HW Accelerator Manager used within the IMS is unique within an O-Cloud instance. The HW Accelerator Manager is under the control of the O-Cloud Infrastructure. It is integrated into the Cloud Infrastructure using the O-Cloud Infrastructure's installation procedures. The HW Accelerator Manager shall be certified by the O-Cloud vendor. The following list provides a description of capabilities offered by HAM. The list is not exhaustive:

# 15 • Discovery and Life Cycle Management:
o The HW Accelerator Manager provides a mechanism to expose inventory information and capabilities of the physical and logical partitioning of the hardware and software. o The HW Accelerator Manager provides the ability to discover the capabilities of the HW

# 19 Accelerator(s).

# 6 • Configuration
o The HW Accelerator Manager allows the configuration of the HW Accelerator as prescribed by the IMS through the AALI-C-Mgmt interface. The configuration of the HW Accelerator Manager may include HW Accelerator resource assignment to AAL-LPUs.

# 10 • Fault and Performance Monitoring:
o The HW Accelerator Manager allows exposure of faults, logs and performance measurements toward the IMS.

# 13 Deployment Scenarios
The HAM’s software is deployed as part of the O-Cloud Platform software. The installation and update of the HAM’s software, deployed as a part of O-Cloud platform software, is described section 3.1.2 and section 3.1.6 of Cloudification and Orchestration Use Cases and Requirements for O-RAN Virtualized

# 17 RAN [13].
The HAM may be located on O-Cloud Nodes designated as part of the clusters used to deploy the AAL Applications (NFs) or otherwise as shown below. The figure shows HAM from the perspective of AAL-C- Mgmt interface termination point. The actual software entities (i.e., vendor specific libraries used by the HAM) for managing the HWA can reside in other locations as well. N

# O 2 IM
IM S

# O SO

# S O D E O S H A M s e r v e r N O D E

# N O D E s e r v e r
s e r v e r

# O -C lo u d N o d e C lu s te r
(N o t h o stin g N F s )

# H A M C o n ta in e r/V M o n n o d e
c lu ste r n o t u se d fo r N F d e p lo y m e n t S

# D M
O c o

# O S N O D E S

# O S N O D E O S N O D E s e r v e r H W A s e r v e r
s e r v e r -C lo u d N o d e C lu s te r (h o stin g N F s) C e n tra liz e d H A M re m o te n tro l o f th e d e p lo y e d c lu ster

# H W A re so u rc e s

# O -C lo
O u D H d

# D M S

# O S N O D E M S

# O S N O D E O S N O D E s e r v e r A M H W A s e r v e r
s e r v e r

# O -C lo u d N o d e C lu s te r
(h o stin g N F s)

# H A M c o n ta in e r/V M w ith in c lu ste r d ep lo y in g N F

# D M
O

# H A S
-C M

# O S N O D E O S N O D E

# O S N O D E H A M s e r v e r H W A s e r v e r
s e r v e r lo u d N o d e C lu s te r (h o stin g N F s) d riv e r w ith in lo c a l se rv e r

# O S
> NOTE 1: The scenarios depicted are considered an exemplification of the most common deployment scenarios.

# 24 Other locations and modelling approaches are not precluded.

# 25 Figure 4.2.3-1 Example HAM software deployment scenarios

### 4.2.4 AAL Interfaces
The AAL interface API has two distinct parts, the first part corresponds to a set of common APIs (AALI-C) to address all the profile independent aspects of the underlying AAL Implementation(s) within an O-Cloud platform. The second part corresponds to a set of AAL profile specific APIs (AALI-P) which is specific to each defined AAL profile.

# 30 There are two categories of AALI-C interface:
- AALI-C-Mgmt: OAM management from the HAM toward the O-Cloud IMS for acceleration resources
exposed by this interface.
- AALI-C-App: Common operations/actions/events towards the RAN AAL Application for resources exposed
by this interface. A candidate set of functionalities for AAL services supported by the AAL common API(s) potentially includes (but is not limited to) the following:

# 7 • Inventory Management, Fault, Performance, Configuration Management

# 8 • Software/ Firmware upgrade services

# 9 • Operations (Query status, Reset/Restart)
- Life Cycle Management of resources exposed by the interface. The AALI-C-Mgmt provides the Life Cycle
Management of the HW Accelerator and the AAL-LPU resources.
- Configuration of the state of these AAL-LPU(s) (for example, start, stop, or reset of an AAL-LPU).
- Configuration of various counters and resources associated with AAL-LPU(s) (for example, performance
measurements/indicators, performance monitoring metrics, events, faults etc.).
- Discovery of AAL-profile(s) supported by these AAL-LPU(s) and associated configurations etc.
- Abstraction of transport mechanism between the AAL Application and AAL Implementation
The information model and the exact list of operations and actions applicable across AAL-C-Mgmt and AAL-C-App are defined in [15]. The second part of AAL interface corresponds to a set of AAL profile specific APIs (AALI-P) which is specific to each defined AAL profile. The AAL profile can be common across the different AAL Implementation accelerating the same set of AFs. It enables the AAL Application to efficiently offload an AAL profile workload to the AAL Implementation in a consistent way without requiring the HW implementations to expose every single detail of the underlying HW implementation to the AAL Applications. Figure 4.2.4-1 shows examples of the AAL APIs presented to an AAL

# 25 Application in three different scenarios.
The AALI-C-App & AALI-P APIs are internal to the AAL Application that utilize them. AAL Application AAL Application AAL Application AAL AAL AAL AAL Profile AAL Profile AAL Profile AAL Profile Common Common Common

# A APIs B APIs B APIs C APIs
APIs APIs APIs AAL Interface AAL Interface AAL Interface

# 29 Figure 4.2.4-1: AAL Application Common and profile APIs

### 4.2.5 AAL Deployment in O-Cloud environments
O-RAN Network O-RAN Network Function in a Function in a container Virtual Machine AAL Application e n AAL Application ih c a API/Library M API/Library la E.g., AAL FEC Profile u tr O-Cloud Node E.g., AAL FEC Profile iV Guest OS Acc. Driver O-Cloud Node Acc. Driver Host OS Acc. Driver Host OS Acc. Driver DMS DMS Compute Svc, with Acceleration Compute Svc, with Acceleration IMS IMS O-Cloud Instance O-Cloud Instance Figure 4.2.5-1: Accelerator APIs/Libraries in Container (left) and Virtual Machine Implementations

# 5 (right)
The AAL specifications define the AAL interfaces (i.e AAL-C and AAL-P) and the AAL profiles that may be supported. The AAL-C-App interface is used by AAL Application to access the AAL Implementation encompassing HW Accelerator and associated SW libraries, drivers etc. In Figure 4.2.5-1 two deployment scenarios are shown, one with Containers and the other with Virtual Machines. Figure 4.2.5-1 also shows the O-Cloud Infrastructure Management Services and Accelerator management entity (i.e. the HAM). The orchestration of the HAM as a managed entity is outside the scope of the AAL and shall be specified in the

# 12 O-RAN WG6 O2 specification [11].

# 13 4.2.5.1 AAL Implementation Software Deployment Options
The following figures describe AAL Implementation software deployment options. In Figure 4.2.5.1-1: there is an example where the entire AAL Implementation software is deployed as part of the O-Cloud Platform Software [3], and there is no software component dependency between NF Deployments and O-Cloud Platform Software. While in Figure 4.2.5.1-2: and Figure 4.2.5.1-3: there are other examples where part of the AAL Implementation software is deployed as part of the NF Deployment and part of O-Cloud Platform Software. In these and similar cases there is a software component dependency between the NF Deployment and the O-Cloud Platform Software, as such updating AAL Implementation software in the O-Cloud Platform Software may require an update to the NF Deployment, this is outside the scope of the AAL. The installation and update of the AAL Implementation software including but not limited to device drivers and libraries, deployed as a part of O-Cloud Platform Software, is described in Cloudification and Orchestration Use Cases and Requirements for O-RAN Virtualized RAN [12], clause 3.1.2 and 3.1.6. In the diagrams below, ‘Container image(s)’ and ‘VM image(s)’ refer specifically to containers or VMs which are being used to run AAL Applications and do not preclude the existence of other containers or images. These diagrams depict several different possible ways in which the AAL Implementation software may be deployed. The AAL Implementation software may exist wholly or partially inside or outside of the specific containers or VMs which are being used to enclose the AAL Applications. (s h a r Ae d O

# A L
lib
- C
C

# A A I m
r a r lo u o py d n ta i n e r I m a g e

# L A p p l ic a t i o n
le m e n t a t io n S o ft w a r e , K e r n e l s p a c e d r iv e r s P la tf o r m S o f t w a r e e tc ..) Figure 4.2.5.1-1: Example AAL Implementation Software deployment contained within O-Cloud

# 3 Platform Software only
(s h a r A Ae d O

# A L(s

# A L
lib
- C
C o n ta i n e r I m a g e

# A A L A p p l ic a t i o n
I m p le m e n t a t io n S o ft w a r e ta tic lib r a r y , u s e r s p a c e d r iv e r s e tc ..) I m p le m e n t a t io n S o ft w a r e r a r y , K e r n e l s p a c e d r iv e r s lo u d P la tf o r m S o f t w a r e e tc ..) Figure 4.2.5.1-2: Example AAL Implementation Software Deployment split between O-Cloud Platform

# 6 Software and NF Deployment
(s G h a u r

# V M I m a g e

# A A L A p p l ic a t i o n

# A A L I m p le m e n t a t io n S o ft w a r e
(s ta tic lib r a r y , u s e r s p a c e d r iv e r s e tc ..)

# A A L I m p le m e n t a t io n S o ft w a r e
(s h a r e d lib r a r y , k e r n e l s p a c e d r iv e r s e tc ..) e s t O S

# A A L I m p le m e n t a t io n S o ft w a r e
e d lib r a r y , K e r n e l s p a c e d r iv e r s

# O - C lo u d P la tf o r m S o f t w a r e
e tc ..) Figure 4.2.5.1-3: Example AAL Implementation Software Deployment split between O-Cloud Platform Software and NF Deployment in a virtual machine environment

## 4.3 Relationship with Standards
The O-RAN AAL interface shall leverage existing standards wherever possible.

### 4.3.1 Relationship with ETSI
In [4,5,10], ETSI has specified a generic acceleration and abstraction model as well as acceleration resource management that have served as the basis of this specification. ETSI GS NFV-IFA 001 [10] provides a classification of acceleration types and describes several related uses cases, for example about compute acceleration when considering Virtual Base Stations (VBS). ETSI GS NFV-IFA 002 [4] specifies an acceleration architectural model for NFV. The acceleration model considers that a single HW device exposes multiple abstract virtual accelerators and multiple instances of these virtual accelerators per VNF. ETSI GS NFV-IFA 002 [4] defines the interfaces between the NFVI and the VNF instances to support this concept. ETSI GS NFV-IFA 019 [5] defines acceleration resource management interfaces between the VIM and the NFVI (e.g., Acceleration Image Management interface). From an NFV orchestration and management perspective, acceleration capabilities are defined as part of the relevant Virtual Compute Resource information elements, i.e., a virtual compute resource (e.g., a VM) can have associated acceleration capabilities from the set of capabilities offered by the acceleration resources. For the relevant descriptors, ETSI GS NFV-IFA 011 [14] details the VirtualComputeDesc information element in VNFD which describes CPU, Memory and acceleration requirements of the virtualisation container (e.g., a VM or a set of OS containers, such as a Pod) realizing a VNFC (i.e., a component of a VNF). For containerized deployments required acceleration capabilities can be described by the extendedResourcesRequests attribute in the OsContainerDesc information element. In addition, in the case of a containerized deployment, requirements about constraints on the placement of the set of one or more OS containers (a Pod) to cluster nodes with certain capabilities, such as acceleration, can also be defined. In both cases (VM-based and OS container-based), the VDU information element also supports an attribute to request for additional capabilities, being acceleration related capabilities as one possible example. In ETSI NFV the concept of the abstract virtual accelerator has been devised based on the idea of an extensible para- virtualised device. However, the concept has only been defined considering its use in hypervisor-based virtualization systems and is not ad-hoc applicable to the case of containerized deployments without further analysis. Also, there is no relevant ETSI NFV stage 3 work which can be referenced for the interfaces described in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 002 [4] and ETSI GS NFV-IFA 019 [5].This specification builds upon the concepts described by the aforementioned ETSI NFV specifications but also goes beyond to consider the advances introduced by cloud native solutions, for example by introducing the concept of LPUs. . ETSI GR NFV-IFA 046 [15] profiles the NFV-MANO acceleration abstraction framework and compares it to the O- RAN acceleration abstraction solution developed in the context of O-RAN, from which several challenges are further described. A set of recommendations about future work in the NFV framework are derived in the same referenced expressive to support additional functionality. 5. AAL Interface definition General Principles and Requirements

## 5.1 General Principles
The set of generic and profile-specific features of the AAL interface between the AAL application and the AAL implementation described in the following subsections are defined from an AAL Application point of view and are related to the AAL-C-App general principles and requirements.

### 5.1.1 Extensibility
O-RAN has defined the functions that can be accelerated by the cloud platform based on 3GPP specifications and O-RAN deployment scenarios. However, the AAL should not limit innovation of future implementations and should evolve as the specification requires. To that end, the AAL Application interface shall be extensible to accommodate future revisions of the specification.

### 5.1.2 Interrupt and Poll Mode
The AAL Application interface shall support multiple design choices for AAL Application vendors and shall not preclude an AAL Application/HW Accelerator vendor from adopting/supporting an interrupt-driven design or poll-mode design or any combination of both. As such, the AAL Application interface shall support both interrupt mode, poll mode and any combination of interrupt and poll modes for the data-path AAL Application interface.

### 5.1.3 HW Independence
AAL Application interface shall be independent of the underlying AAL Implementation.

### 5.1.4 Discovery and Configuration
The AAL Application interface shall enable AAL Application to discover and configure AAL-LPU(s). The AAL Application interface shall allow an AAL Application to discover what physical resources have been assigned to it from the upper layers and then to configure said resources for offload operations.

### 5.1.5 Multiple AAL-LPU Support
There may be scenarios where multiple AAL-LPUs (either implementing the same or different AAL profile(s) are assigned to a single AAL Application, which uses one or more of these AAL-LPU(s) as needed. The AAL Application interface shall support an AAL Application using one or more AAL-LPU(s) at the same time, as shown in Figure 5.1.5-

# 27 1.
A A

# A L
A P

# L - r
L o P

# A A f ile
U

# L I n t e
A r f A a c L e A p p l ic A a A t i L o n In te r fa A c A e

# A L
A P

# L - r
L o P f ile U Figure 5.1.5-1: Logical Representation of AAL Application interface support for multiple AAL-LPUs

### 5.1.6 AAL offload capabilities
The AAL Application interface in supporting different AAL profiles and AAL Implementations shall support different offload architectures including look-aside, inline, and any combination of both. An AAL Implementation shall support one or more of these offload architectures depending on the supported AAL profile(s).

### 5.1.7 Look-aside Acceleration Model
The AAL Application interface shall support look-aside acceleration model where the AAL Application invokes a HW Accelerator for data processing and receives the result after processing is complete. A look-aside architecture, illustrated in Figure 5.1.7-1, allows the AAL Application to offload AF(s) specified by AAL profiles(s) to a HW Accelerator and continue to perform other work in parallel—this could be to continue to execute other software tasks in parallel or to sleep and wait for the HW Accelerator to complete. This model requires the AAL Application interface to support two operations, one for initiating the offload and another for retrieving the output data once complete. CPU AAL Application AAL Interface AAL Profile Instance(s) HW Accelerator Input to Accelerator Output to Accelerator Figure 5.1.7-1: AAL Application interface look-aside acceleration model - Data flow

### 5.1.8 Inline Acceleration Model
The AAL Application interface shall support inline acceleration model where the AAL Application, after invoking a HW Accelerator for offloading AF(s) specified by AAL profile(s), does not necessarily retrieve the post processed data. Unlike the look-aside acceleration model where data source/sink is always the AAL Application (i.e., the HW Accelerator always receives the data to be processed from the AAL Application and returns the post processed data to the same), a HW Accelerator operating in inline acceleration mode receives/returns data from/to a different source/destination endpoint than the AAL Application, depending on the direction of data flow (e.g., in downlink (DL) direction versus uplink (UL) direction). Figure 5.1.8-1 shows one possible implementation of an inline acceleration model. AI An

# L P r
s ta n c T x A oe

# A L
f ile ( s )

# C P U
p p l ic a t i o n In te r fa c e

# A A L P r o f ile
I n s ta n c e ( s ) R x In p u t to A O u tp u t to A c c c WH e le r c e le rotareleccA a to r r a to r Figure 5.1.8-1: AAL Application interface inline acceleration model - Data flow In Figure 5.1.8-1, “Tx” refers to the transmission of the data from the HW Accelerator through an egress port (e.g., an Ethernet interface) to a destination node (e.g., O-RU), while “Rx” refers to the reception of data through an ingress port (e.g., Ethernet interface) to the HW Accelerator from a source node (e.g O-RU). While the look-aside architecture (in DL) shall support dataflow from the CPU to the HW Accelerator and back to the CPU before being sent to the egress port (front-haul interface), the inline architecture (in DL) shall support data flow from the CPU to the HW Accelerator and directly from the HW Accelerator to the egress port (front-haul interface), instead of being sent back to the CPU. The typical user plane data flows for accelerating the O-DU High-PHY functions for the look-aside and inline architectures are as follows.

# 19 Look-aside architecture user plane dataflow
CPU ↔ HW Accelerator ↔ CPU ↔ front-haul: for a set of consecutive PHY functions offload (e.g., FEC) CPU ↔ HW Accelerator ↔ CPU ↔ HW Accelerator ↔…↔ CPU ↔ front-haul: for a set of non-consecutive PHY functions offload

# 23 Inline architecture user plane dataflow
CPU ↔ HW Accelerator ↔ front-haul: for a set of consecutive PHY functions offload (up to the end of the PHY pipeline) Figure 5.1.8-2: illustrates one possible implementation of the look-aside and inline architectures. While a set of PHY- layer functions are offloaded to the HW Accelerator for look-aside acceleration, the entire end-to-end High-PHY pipeline is offloaded to the accelerator for inline acceleration. L2+ on CPU High Phy on CPU L1/L2 Func. Func. Func. Func. L2 Interface* 1 3 4 n AAL Interface Func. Func. on N-1 on accelerator accelerator HW Accelerator O-DU L2+ PHY *e.g. FAPI FH L2+ on CPU High Phy on CPU L1/L2 L2 Accelerator Interface on CPU Interface* AAL Interface Input to Accelerator Func. Func. Func. Func. Func.

### 5.1.9 AAL Application interface Concurrency and Parallelism
To enable greater flexibility and design choice by AAL Application vendors, the AAL Application interface shall support multi-threading environment allowing an AAL Application to offload acceleration requests in parallel from several threads.

### 5.1.10 Separation of Control and User Plane AAL Application interface APIs
For efficiency and flexibility of AAL Implementation, AAL Application interface shall support separation of control and user plane APIs with appropriate identifiers, as required by different AAL profiles.

### 5.1.11 Support of Versatile Acceleration Payload
Range of payload sizes can vary widely, depending on the specific layer of the RAN protocol stack from which the workload for AAL profile(s) is offloaded to a HW Accelerator. AAL Application interface API shall be flexible to support various ranges of payload sizes as required by different AAL profiles.

### 5.1.12 Support of Different Transport Mechanisms
The transport between an AAL Application and an AAL Implementation can be of different types (e.g., based on shared memory, PCIe interconnect, over ethernet). The AAL Application interface shall support abstraction of these various transport mechanisms between the AAL Application and the AAL Implementation.

### 5.1.13 AAL API namespace
For convenience of AAL Implementation, the AAL shall follow a unique name space for all AAL API functions.

### 5.1.14 Chaining of AAL Profiles
AAL profiles specify one or multiple AFs in specific order offloaded to the HWA. To take advantage of multiple AFs offloaded to the same or different HWAs, the AAL Implementation can permit the chaining of AAL Profile(s) executing the AF or set thereof. In such a case, the AAL Implementation redirects the output of preceding AAL Profile as input to the subsequent AAL Profile belonging to the same or different LPU(s) on the same or different HWA(s). Such a chaining of AAL Profiles allows data to be transferred from one AAL Profile to another AAL Profile without the intervention of the AAL Application thereby reducing transfer latencies. Chained AAL Profile Instances can reside on the same or different LPUs and HWAs. However, in this version of specification, only considers the chaining of AAL Profiles on single AAL-LPU, and the HAM announces chained AAL Profiles which can be satisfied on the single AAL- LPU and HWA. Other cases where the chained AAL Profile straddles across multiple AAL-LPUs and HWAs are for further study. The use of chaining two AAL Profiles is optional for the AAL Implementation and depends on the AAL Profiles requested by the AAL Application. During CNF deployment as per K8s profile, or VNF deployment as per ETSI profile, AAL Implementation can chain the AAL Profiles to create a chained AAL Profile with more AFs implemented as part of the chained AAL Profile. The chained AAL Profile should conform to the AAL Profile requested by the AAL Application, i.e., the chained AAL Profile has same properties towards the AAL Application as well as the IMS and the DMS. It is the responsibility of the AAL Implementation to announce that the chained profile as an AAL Profile as defined in AAL specifications to which the chain conforms. The first AAL Profile in the chain takes data from the AAL Application and the last AAL Profile returns the transformed data to the AAL Application. A chained AAL Profile Instance is valid only if the two or more AAL Profiles form semantically correct sequence of consecutive blocks in the AF processing chain and no intervention is required by the AAL Application for control or data exchanged between the two AAL Profiles. Additionally, the output format of the preceding AAL Profile should match with the input format of the succeeding AAL Profile. AAL Profile chaining may be applicable to both inline and look-aside acceleration. The data flows in these cases are depicted in Figure 5.1.14-3: and Figure 5.1.14-4:. AAL Application AAL Profile AAL Profile AAL Profile Instance 1 Instance 2 Instance n

# 29 Figure 5.1.14-1: Data flow through unchained AAL Profiles

# A A L P r o f il e 1
A A A A A L

# A L

# L P
C h a A p p l r o f il e 2 in e d P r o i c a f ile t i In o s n t a n c e

# A A L P r o f il e n
> NOTE 1: In Figure 5.1.14-1 and Figure 5.1.14-2 above, the chained AAL Profile Instance is a data stream transformer
that works upon the input data stream to produce output stream. Input data and parameters are passed on from preceding AAL Profile to next. These are provided by the AAL Application in case of the first AAL Profile. The difference is that in Figure 5.1.14-1:, the AAL Application would call a series of AAL Profile Instances, while in Error! Not a valid bookmark self-reference., the AAL Application calls only one AAL Profile Instance, which happens to be the chained AAL Profile instance.
> NOTE 2: The mechanisms for transfer of data and parameters to each of the AAL Profile Instances in unchained
mode and to the chained AAL Profile Instances follow the AAL-C-App interface’s transport as defined in AAL Common API Specifications [14]. The AAL Profiles in the chained mode shall continue to follow the

# 11 AAL-C-App Interface specified in [14]
> NOTE 3: The AAL-Implementation can configure the chaining of AAL-Profiles during its initialization in order to avoid
disruption in the processing chain while the AAL Application is in service.

# 14 Figure 5.1.14-2: Data flow through chained AAL Profiles
The chaining of AAL Profiles is possible across the HWAs and LPUs, however, it is beyond the current scope of document and for future studies. The chained look-aside acceleration architecture follows the same dataflow models as look-aside acceleration functions with subtle difference. The first and the last blocks in the chain interfacing the CPU to HW Accelerator support respectively dataflow from the CPU to the accelerator and then from accelerator back to the CPU. All the intermediate blocks support dataflow to and from the preceding and succeeding accelerated functions when those are configured as links in the chain. When not configured as chained accelerated functions, these should support dataflow as in look-aside acceleration.

# 23 Look-aside chained architecture user plane dataflow.
CPU ↔ HW Accelerator (AF1) ↔ HW Accelerator (AF2) ↔ … ↔ HW Accelerator (AFn) ↔ CPU ↔ front-haul: for offload of a set of consecutive PHY functions (e.g., FEC) CPU ↔ HW Accelerator (AF1) ↔… ↔HW Accelerator (AFn) ↔ CPU ↔ HW Accelerator ↔…↔ CPU ↔ front- haul: for offload of a set of non-consecutive PHY functions Figure 5.1.14-3: illustrates the data flow through the chained HW Accelerated functions within an accelerator when configured for consecutive PHY function offload while Figure 5.1.14-4 represents it for non-consecutive PHY function offload.

# O -D U

# L 2 +

# P H Y

# F H
L o ok -aside ch ain ing M o del

# L 2 + o
L n C

# P U
In

# L 1 /L 2
terface* F u n1 c . a c I/O F u n c . o n c e le r a to d ata flow r H H ig h A W P h y o n C P

# A L In terface
A c c e le ra to U r a

# P H

# P H
F u n c .

# N -1 o n
c c e le r a to Y d ow n lin Y u plink r k F u nn c . luaH tnorF ecafretnI

# F H (7.2) O -R U
Figure 5.1.14-3: Dataflow through chained lookaside HW Accelerator for consecutive Hi-PHY functions. L2+ on CPU High Phy on CPU L ch o a o i k n - i a n s g i d M e odel L2 In L te rf /L ac e* Fu nc. Fu nc. Fu n nc. lu a H tn o rF eca fretn I FH (7.2) O-RU O-DU AAL Interface L2+ PHY FH Func. Func. Func. Func.

# 4 PHY uplink
Figure 5.1.14-4: Dataflow through chained lookaside HW Accelerator for consecutive and non- consecutive PHY.

### 5.1.15 Fault notification
There would be cases where AAL applications would keep doing unnecessary and inefficient processing (e.g. UL/DL scheduling) for duration of inconsistent knowledge between HWA and AAL application when HWA falls into unexpected failures or conditions (e.g. DL Transmission failure, UL HARQ buffer release, etc.). The fault notification in AALI-C-App interface should be supported, and the notification from HWA should contain related information with which AAL applications could react quickly on abnormal HWA related events and avoid unnecessary and inefficient processing.

## 5.2 High-PHY Profile Specific Principles
The set of features of AAL described in the following subsections are relevant for inline High-PHY AAL profiles (profile names with suffix ‘_HIGH-PHY’) defined in Chapter 5

### 5.2.1 Separation of Cell and Slot Level Parameter Configurations
In general, “cell-specific” (typically static or semi-static in nature) parameters change less frequently than “slot-specific” (typically dynamic in nature, specific to PHY channels/signals) parameters associated with inline, High-PHY AAL profiles. Hence, for optimizing signalling overhead, the AAL Application interface shall support configuration of “cell- specific” and “slot-specific” parameters to the AAL Implementation using separate AAL Application interface API functions. It is noteworthy that the cell/slot specific configurations can include both control and user planes.

### 5.2.2 SFN/slot-based Synchronization
The AAL Application interface shall support system frame number (SFN) based or slot-based synchronization between the AAL Application and the AAL Implementation supporting inline, high-PHY AAL profiles.

### 5.2.3 Compatibility with O-RAN FH interface
The functional split between the O-DU and the O-RU remains as defined by the WG4 OFH interface [17] and the AAL Application interface API shall be compatible with O-RAN FH interface (7.2-x split) to enable communication between the O-DU AAL Application and O-RU via AAL Implementation as required by inline, High-PHY AAL profile(s).

### 5.2.4 Inline Profile for High-PHY Stack
Inline data flow for the AAL Profile that specifies a complete stack of High-PHY functions implies that the set of Accelerated Functions is constituted by the entire U-plane processing of the High-PHY channels or signals (with 7-2x PHY functional split) and the IQ data (in DL) or decoded bits (in UL) (post processing) and these are transferred directly from the HW Accelerator to the Fronthaul interface (in DL) or to the Layer 2 (in UL). Inline acceleration for AAL Profiles that specify a partial stack of the High-PHY for UL and for DL Accelerated Functions is also possible; in such case only parts of the U-Plane, i.e., not all the functions of the High-PHY stack of a given channel, may be offloaded to a HW Accelerator. For inline acceleration of a partial High-PHY stack, the IQ data or decoded bits are also transferred directly from the HW Accelerator to the Fronthaul (in DL) and to the non- accelerated part of the High-PHY stack (in UL). The set of Accelerated Functions that are offloaded in Inline mode for acceleration of a partial High-PHY stack would be AAL Profile specific. The support of AAL Profiles that specify the support of partial High-PHY stack is for future study. L2+ on CPU High Phy on CPU P M a o rt d ia e l l Inline L2 In L te rf /L ac e* Fu nc. Fu nc. Fu n nc. lu a H tn o rF eca fretn I FH (7.2) O-RU O-DU AAL Interface L2+ PHY FH Func. Func. Func.

# 3 4 N-1
HW Accelerator PHY downlink I/O data flow

# 20 PHY uplink
Figure 5.2.4-1: Partial Inline Model for AAL Hi-PHY Profile 6. AAL-LPU Principles

## 6.1 Overview
This section discusses about AAL-LPU(s) presented to AAL Applications using the AAL Application interface. An AAL-LPU should not be confused with a physical HW Accelerator. Within a process address space each AAL-LPU shall abstract the AAL Application from underlying HW Accelerator. The following list provides a description of capabilities and characteristics of AAL-LPUs:
- An AAL-LPU maps to a single HW Accelerator. An AAL-LPU can be identified uniquely within a HW

# 8 Accelerator.
- A HW Accelerator may support 1 to N AAL-LPU’s.
- Each AAL-LPU shares the resources of the associated HW Accelerator with other AAL-LPU(s) mapped to the
same HW Accelerator. AAL-LPU can also represent a hard partition of the HW Accelerator where resources are dedicated to the partition.
- Mapping of HW Accelerator resources to AAL-LPU shall be configurable from O2 interface
- An AAL-LPU may support more than one AAL profile. For each supported AAL profile, an AAL-LPU may
execute 0 to N AAL-Profile-Instances.
- An AAL-LPU can be assigned to a single POD or VM. Multiple LPU's can be assigned to a POD or VM.
- An AAL-LPU can provide service to 0 or more AAL Applications within a POD or VM.
- AAL-LPU is a virtual Managed Element as defined in [13].
Depending on HW design and implementation choice, a HW Accelerator may accelerate multiple profiles or offer support for sharing HW Accelerator resources between multiple threads, processes, VMs, PODs. For this reason, a second abstract construct known as AAL Profile Queue can optionally be used to
- distinguish between multiple supported AAL profiles per AAL-LPU

# 23 • prioritize access to AAL-LPU resources

# 24 • group operation requests
- allow parallel access through AAL Application interface for multiple threads
As an abstract construct, an AAL Profile Queue does not reflect a HW design specification or requirement. From the AAL Application point of view, an AAL Profile queue is exposed by an AAL Profile Instance
- an AAL Profiles Instances exposes one or more AAL Profile Queues
- The AAL Profile Queue optionally also supports priority, allowing the AAL Application to schedule jobs of
different priorities.
> NOTE: An AAL Profile Queue can be used by an AAL Application to share AAL-LPU resources between
threads/cores belonging to the same process address space
> NOTE: An AAL Application may use multiple AAL Profile Queues to access different AAL Profile Instances
supported by an AAL-LPU

## 6.2 LPU Deployment and Operation

### 6.2.1 Example AAL-LPU Mapping
The following Section contains example deployments mapping AAL-LPUs to AAL Applications. The labels ‘profile- instanceID’ and ‘queueID’ in the following diagrams denote AAL Profile Instance object handle and identifier of an

# 5 AAL Profile Queue respectively.
- Scenario 1: Basic implementation: A HW Accelerator supports a single AAL-LPU which exposes a single

# 7 AAL-Profile-Instance for one AAL Application to use
AAL Application API(profile-instanceID, queueID) AAL Profile Instance AAL-LPU0 HW Accelerator (Physical)

# A HW Accelerator supports a single AAL LPU which
exposes a single AAL Profile Queue for one application to use Figure 6.2.1-1: Scenario 1: A single AAL LPU exposes a single AAL Profile Queue used by a single

# 11 AAL Application.
Scenario 2: Basic Multi Application Support: A HW Accelerator supports multiple AAL LPUs for multiple AAL

# 16 Applications
A E P x

# A A I(p ro
a m

# L A p p l ic a tio n
file -in sta n c e ID , q u e u e ID

# A A L P r o f ile
In s ta n c e

# A A L - L P U 0

# H W A c c e
M u lt i a p p p l e s h o w in g m u b y a s i n g le ) le ra to li c a t lti p le

# H W

# A P
r (P i o n a p a c

# A A L A p p l ic a tio n
I(p ro file -in sta n c e ID , q u e u e ID

# A A L P r o f ile
In s ta n c e

# A A L - L P U 0
h y s ic a l) s u p p o r t p lic a ti o n s s u p p o r t e d c e l e r a t o r ) Figure 6.2.1-2: A single HW Accelerator supporting two LPU's each assigned to individual AAL

# 3 Applications
- Scenario 3: Multiple Accelerator Support: Mapping example showing multiple HW Accelerators assigned
to a single AAL Application AAL Application API(profile-instanceID, queueID) API(profile-instanceID, queueID) AAL Profile AAL Profile Instance Instance AAL-LPU0 AAL-LPU1 HW Accelerator (Physical) HW Accelerator (Physical) Multi accelerator support Example showing multiple HW accelerators assigned to a single application Figure 6.2.1-3: Two HW Accelerators each supporting a single AAL-LPU assigned to a single AAL

# 12 Application.
- Scenario 4: Multi Queue Support: AAL LPU mapping showing multiple AAL Profile Queue support
A

# A P

# H W
M s i n t w o u s

# A A L A p p l i c a t i o n
I( p r o f ile -in s ta n c e I D , q u e u e I D )

# A A L P r o f il e
I n s ta n c e

# A A L - L P U 0
A c c e l e r a t o r ( P h y s i c a l ) u l t i q u e u e s u p p o r t g l e A A L L P U e x p o s e

# A A L P r o f i l e Q u e u e s
e d b y a s i n g l e A A L A p p l i c a t i o n s Figure 6.2.1-4: A single AAL LPU exposes two AAL Profile Queues used by a single AAL Application.
- Scenario 5: Multi Profile Support: Mapping example showing multi-function support
AAL Application API(profile-instanceID, queueID) API(profile-instanceID, queueID) AAL Profile AAL Profile Instance Instance AAL-LPU0 HW Accelerator (Physical) Multi Profile Support A single AAL LPU supporting two AAL Profile Instances exposes two AAL Profile Queues used by a single AAL Application Figure 6.2.1-5: A single AAL LPU supporting two AAL Profile Instances exposes two AAL Profile

# 8 Queues used by a single AAL Application.
- Scenario 6: Chained Profile Support: Mapping example showing a multi-profile chained AAL Profile

# 10 Instance on an AAL-LPU
E x a m c hP ar pio lnf

# A A L A p p l ic a tio n

# A P I(p ro file -in sta n c e ID , q u e u e ID )

# A A L P r o f ile 1 A A L P r o f ile 2

# A A L C h a in e d P ro file I n s ta n c e

# A A L - L P U 0

# H W A c c e le ra to r (P h y s ic a l)
C h a i n e d P r o f il e S u p p o r t e s h o w in g m u lti p le A A L P r o f il e s ( 1 e d t o g e t h e r t o i m p le m e n t a s i n g l e A ile I n s t a n c e o n a n A A L - L P U w h ic h e q u i v a le n t to P r o f il e 1 + P r o f i le 2 &

# A L
i s

### 6.2.2 Statistics
The AAL Application interface shall provide an AAL Application with general statistics upon request. Statistics may include but not limited to operation counts and error counts.

### 6.2.3 Memory Management
O-RAN network functions (O-DU, O-CU, etc.) will be responsible for input, output and operation structure memory allocation and freeing, using AAL defined memory management functions. All other AAL Application memory is not required to use the AAL memory management functions. Device Drivers are free to manage their own internal memory, DMA implementation as needed, the AAL specification does not add any memory requirements to device driver. Each AAL Implementation shall define its own memory requirements and implement its own memory backing if needed. Each AAL Implementation may define its own operation memory structure and allocation if needed.

### 6.2.4 Run Time Configurations
Operations are requested to the AAL-LPU to execute specific HW Accelerated Function(s). Each operation shall be represented by an operation struct that shall define all necessary metadata, configurations and information required for the operation to be processed on an AAL-LPU. The operation structs shall define the operation type to be performed, including an operation status and reference to the AAL profile specific operation data which can vary in size and content depending on the AAL profile. Each AAL profile shall define its own operation structure for its specific functions.

### 6.2.5 AAL Profile(s) offload, processing status query and processed data
retrieval

# 3 6.2.5.1 Overview
An AAL Application aggregates one or more AAL profile(s) and offload to the AAL Implementation using a single AAL Application interface API invocation. As one example, for High-PHY AAL profiles defined in clause7, multiple AAL profiles (where an AAL profile refers to a PHY channel/signal for one or more than one cell(s) and one or more than one UE(s)) scheduled within a slot can be aggregated and offloaded to an AAL-LPU by the AAL Application using a single AAL Application interface API invocation. The processing status of offloaded/enqueued AAL profile(s) can be queried by the AAL Application in an ‘asynchronous’ manner, i.e., not necessarily in the same order in which the AAL profile(s) are offloaded. In case the AAL Application retrieves the post-processed data from the AAL Implementation, a ‘processing status query’ request can be bundled with a ‘processed data retrieval/dequeue’ request. In general, status query and dequeue request corresponding to multiple enqueue requests can be bundled together by the AAL Application and invoked through a single AAL Application interface API function.

# 15 6.2.5.2 AAL Profile Functionality Bypass
An AAL Profile specifies a series of one or more Accelerated Functions (AFs) which can be offloaded to Hardware Accelerator by the AAL Application. These AFs are linked internally and interface to each other in a manner transparent to the AAL Application. However, under certain situations, it is desirable to bypass certain AFs implemented by the AAL Profile. For example, consider an AAL Profile that has 3 AFs as shown in Figure-6.2.5.1-1 (a) below. With bypass mode, it is possible to get functionalities in (b), (c), (d), (e), (f) and (g). T F o ro A m A

# A A L A p p lica tio n

# A F 1

# A F 2

# A F 3

# L A p p lica tio n or N
(a) IC T F o ro A m A

# A A L A p p lica tio n

# A F 1

# A F 2

# L A p p lica tio n or N
(b) IC T F o ro A m A

# A A L A p p lica tio n

# A F 1

# L A p p lica tio n or N
(c) IC T F o ro A m A

# A A L A p p lica tio n

# A F 2

# A F 3

# L A p p lica tio n or N
(d) IC T o F ro m A A L A p p lica tio n

# A F 3

# A A L A p p lica tio n or N IC
(e) T F o ro A m A

# A A L A p p lica tio n

# A F 1

# A F 3

# L A p p lica tio n or N
(f) IC T F o ro A m A

# A A L A p p lica tio n

# A F 2

# L A p p lica tio n or N
(g) IC

# 22 Figure 6.2.5.1- 1 Various AAL Bypass scenarios
Any AF in the set of processing functions may be bypassed as long as the processing chain of the AAL Profile remains unaffected. Bypass modes apply to both inline and look-aside accelerators. The capability of the AAL Profile to support bypassing of certain AFs (“bypass mode” of operation) and the list of AFs which can be bypassed is advertised by the LPU. The AAL Profile definition shall continue to include all the mandatory accelerated functions that need to be supported by the vendors to comply with the O-RAN profile specification.

### 6.2.6 AAL-LPU Exposure

# 30 6.2.6.1 Overview
After using the HW Accelerator Manager to create the AAL-LPU(s) and the profiles supported, we can then expose it to the AAL Application (e.g. in KubernetesⓇ it will be part of the POD environment variables). The goal of this section is to abstract the way the AAL-LPU and its supported profiles are exposed to the AAL Application in order to achieve AAL Application portability. Hence, the AAL-LPU and its profile(s) shall be exposed the AAL Application in an abstracted descriptor. As of today many implementations refer to the AAL-LPU by its PCI address and describe a single profile for the entire HW Accelerator, meaning exposure of one single profile for all LPUs supported. This section provides step-by-step example that shows how the AAL-LPU could be exposed to abstract the PCIe address and the profile(s) supported by the AAL-LPU. Although the below example is a KubernetesⓇ example, the outcome of it is independent of orchestration technology supported.

# 3 6.2.6.2 Example

# 4 6.2.6.2.1 AAL-LPU Configuration
1. A given HW Accelerator can support 16 AAL-LPUs and FEC LDPC, PHY profiles but the default setup of the

# 6 AAL-LPUs is FEC:
LPU-1 LPU-2 LPU-3 LPU-16 FEC FEC FEC FEC HW Accelerator (Physical)

# 9 Figure 6.2.6.2.1-1: Example AAL-LPU and profile supported
2. Now assume HW Accelerator Manager configured the HW Accelerator as follow:
- LPU-1 supports FEC version 01, PHY and LDPC version 01 profiles

# 13 • LPU-2 supports LDPC version 02 profile

# 14 • LPU-3 supports LDPC version 02 profile

# 15 • LPU-4 supports LDPC version 02 profile
F L L EPD P CHP UvYC
- 1

# 17 Figure 6.2.6.2.1-2: Example HW Accelerator configuration
3. Assigning it to a vDU POD and exposing the two LPU/Profiles needed by vDU (in green):

# L P U -1

# F E C v 0 1 &

# P H Y &

# L D P C v 0 1

# L P U -2

# L D P C v 0 2 L
ccelerator (P hysical) LD PP UC -3 v 0 2 Figure 6.2.6.2.1-3: Example assignment of AAL-LPUs and supported profiles to POD We can see that the AAL-LPU resources requested in the manifest is translated in the POD environment to three AAL- LPU addresses plus the strings that describe the profiles supported by the LPU. Please note that the AAL Application will be able to query the AAL-LPUs and their supported profiles via the AAL-C-App API.

# 7 Figure 6.2.6.2.2-1: Example AAL Application configured AAL-Profile-Instances

# 8 6.2.6.2.3 AAL-LPU resource tracking
It is a key to be able to track the AAL-LPU as a resource for providing the AAL Application with acceleration resources it needs otherwise the attempt to create the NF will fail due to insufficient resources available. There are few notes related to the tracking of the AAL-LPU resources in relation to the example’s above in :
- If another POD needs to use the LDPC profile, Kubernetes will allow it as 2 out of 3 were used (LPU-4
supports it).
- If another POD needs to use FEC and PHY profiles (FEC&PHY), Kubernetes will reject it as only one LPU is
configured this way.
- We need to consider if a logic is needed to track the AAL-LPU availability from the SMO. For example, a
total of ten AAL-LPU/FEC profiles available in a cluster, three is being used by a deployment, seven left for a new deployment. The seven available could be revealed to the user or automation at the SMO level when considering additional deployments. The conclusion is that the SMO shall be able to track the AAL-LPU as a resource and its availability.

### 6.2.7 Accelerator configuration options between IMS & FOCOM

# 23 6.2.7.1 Declarative approach
Declarative approach defines a desired system state and software is responsible for bringing the system to that state. In context of accelerator management, it is the desired state of the accelerator configuration to support certain profile(s) characteristics. This approach is flexible, reliable and repeatable, reducing or eliminating the need for imperative deployment techniques such as scripting and manual command entry. The O-RAN WG6 O2 General Aspects and Principles [11] clause 3.4.3.8 discusses the Cluster Template concept that this supports. The following are examples of a desired state for an accelerator to support an AAL-Profile version 1.9.0 with two

# 4 … …

# 5 Profile_Name: AAL-PROFILE LPUs_Request: 2

# 6 { {
Pro file _V ersi on: 1.9 .0 Or Profile_Name: AAL-PROFILE

# 8 LPUs_Request: 2 Profile_Version: 1.9.0

# 9 } }

# 10 …

# 11 …
> NOTE 1: The SMO represented Cluster Template instance characteristics such as Capabilities and Capacities are not
described in the present document. 7. AAL Profiles An AAL profile specifies a set of Accelerated Functions that a Hardware Accelerator processes on behalf of an AAL Application within an O-RAN Cloudified Network Function (e.g. O-DU, O-CU etc.). Accordingly, AAL profiles can be categorized as O-DU AAL profiles, O-CU AAL profiles and so on. The following sections describe these different

# 5 AAL profile categories in further details.

## 7.1 O-DU AAL Profiles
An O-DU AAL profile can specify a set of Accelerated Functions within the O-DU protocol stack. These functions may belong to a single layer (e.g., PHY) or span across multiple layers (e.g., PHY and MAC) within O-DU. The current O- DU AAL profiles being studied by O-RAN WG6 are focusing on Accelerated Functions from PHY layer of O-DU.

### 7.1.1 O-DU Protocol Stack Reference
Figure 7.1.1-1: illustrates the building blocks for processing various O-DU PHY layer Downlink (DL) channels and signals (with 7.2-x functional split between O-DU and O-RU) defined by 3GPP in [6] & [7] as part of 5G NR specification. Figure 7.1.1-1: O-DU PHY processing blocks for 5G NR Downlink The O-DU PHY layer in downlink consists of the following physical channels and reference signals:
- Physical Downlink Shared Channel (PDSCH) and associated Demodulation Reference Signal (PDSCH DM-RS).
- Physical Downlink Control Channel (PDCCH) and associated Demodulation Reference Signal (PDCCH DM-RS).

# 19 • Synchronization Signal Block (SSB) consisting of o Physical Broadcast Channel (PBCH) and associated DMRS (PBCH DM-RS).
o Primary Synchronization Signal (PSS). o Secondary Synchronization Signal (SSS).

# P D S C H T B (s )

# T B C R C a t ta c h m e n t

# C B s e g m e n ta tio n +

# C B C R C a tt a c h m e n t

# L D P C e n c o d in g
R a t e m a tc h in g

# C B c o n c a te n a t io n

# P D S C H D M -R
S c r a m b lin g S e q u e n c e g e n e ra tio n M o d u la t io n M o d u la t io n L a y e r m a p p in g P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p re s s io n * S

# L 2 +

# P D C C H (D C I)

# C R C a tt a c h m e n t
P o la r e n c o d in g

# P D C C H D M -R S R a t e m a tc h in g
S e q u e n c e S c r a m b lin g g e n e ra tio n M o d u la t io n M o d u la t io n (Q P S K ) P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p re s s io n *

# O -R A N F H (7 -2 x lo w e r la y e r s p

# P B C H T B

# P B C H p a y lo a d
g e n e ra tio n S c r a m b lin g

# T B C R C
a tta c h m e n t P o la r e n c o d in g

# P S S / S S S
R a t e m a tc h in g P B C H D M -R S D a ta S e q u e n c e s c r a m b lin g G e n e r a tio n M o d u la t io n M o d u la t io n (Q P S K ) P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p re s s io n * lit)

# C S
IQ I-R S / P T -R S / T S e q u e n c e G e n e r a tio n M o d u la t io n P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
c o m p re s s io R n S *
- Channel State Information-Reference Signal (CSI-RS) and Tracking Reference Signal (TRS).

# 4 2 and above).
The downlink physical layer processing of data channel (PDSCH) carrying transport blocks consists of the following steps: TB CRC attachment: Error detection is provided on each transport block (TB) through a Cyclic Redundancy Check (CRC). Refer to Subclause 7.2.1 in [7] for details. CB segmentation and CRC attachment: The transport block is segmented when it exceeds the code block (CB) size specified by 3GPP [7]. Code block segmentation and code block CRC attachment are performed according to

# 11 Subclauses 7.2.3 and 5.2.2 of [7].
LDPC encoding: Refer to Subclauses 7.2.4 and 5.3.2 in [7] for details. Rate matching: Refer to Subclauses 7.2.5 and 5.4.2 in [7] for details. CB concatenation: Refer to Subclauses 7.2.6 and 5.5 in [7] for details. Scrambling: Refer to Subclause 7.3.1.1 in [6] for details. Modulation: Refer to Subclause 7.3.1.2 in [6] for details. Layer mapping: Refer to Subclause 7.3.1.3 in [6] for details. RE mapping: Refer to Subclause 7.3.1.5 and 7.3.1.6 in [6] for details on Resource Element (RE) mapping. The downlink physical layer processing of control channel (PDCCH) carrying Downlink Control Information (DCI) consists of the following steps: CRC attachment: Error detection is provided on DCI transmissions through a Cyclic Redundancy Check (CRC). Refer to Subclause 7.3.2 in [7] for details. Polar encoding: Refer to Subclauses 7.3.3 and 5.3.1 in [7] for details. Rate matching: Refer to Subclauses 7.3.4 and 5.4.1 in [7] for details. Scrambling: Refer to Subclause 7.3.2.3 in [6] for details. Modulation: Refer to Subclause 7.3.2.4 in [6] for details. RE mapping: Refer to Subclause 7.3.2.5 in [6] for details. The downlink physical layer processing of broadcast channel (PBCH) carrying maximum one transport block consists of the following steps: PBCH payload generation: Refer to Subclause 7.1.1 in [7] for details. Scrambling: Refer to Subclause 7.1.2 in [7] for details. TB CRC attachment: Refer to Subclause 7.1.3 in [7] for details. Polar encoding: Refer to Subclauses 7.1.4 and 5.3.1 in [7] for details. Rate matching: Refer to Subclauses 7.1.5 and 5.4.1 in [7] for details. Data scrambling: Refer to Subclause 7.3.3.1 in [6] for details. Modulation: Refer to Subclause 7.3.3.2 in [6] for details. RE mapping: Refer to Subclause 7.3.3.3 in [6] for details. The downlink physical signals (DM-RS, PSS, SSS, CSI-RS/TRS, PT-RS) correspond to a set of resource elements used by the physical layer but does not carry information originated from higher layers (i.e. layer 2 and above). Reference Signals (DM-RS, CSI-RS/TRS, PT-RS) and Synchronization Signals (PSS/SSS) are generated using the following steps: Sequence Generation and Modulation: Refer to Subclauses 7.4.1.1.1 (PDSCH DM-RS), 7.4.1.3.1 (PDCCH DM-RS),

##### 7.4.1.4.1 (PBCH DM-RS), 7.4.1.5.2 (CSI-RS/TRS), 7.4.1.2.1 (PT-RS), 7.4.2.2.1 (PSS) and 7.4.2.3.1 (SSS) in [6] for details.
RE mapping: Refer to Subclauses 7.4.1.1.2 (PDSCH DM-RS), 7.4.1.3.2 (PDCCH DM-RS), 7.4.1.4.2 (PBCH DM-RS),

##### 7.4.1.5.3 (CSI-RS/TRS), 7.4.1.2.2 (PT-RS), 7.4.2.2.2 (PSS) and 7.4.2.3.2 (SSS) in [6] for details.
An O-DU AAL profile for 5G NR downlink shall specify a set of accelerated functions corresponding to one or more than one physical downlink channel(s) and/or physical downlink signal(s). In addition to the processing blocks mentioned above, each of these downlink physical channels/signals may include some additional functional blocks (e.g. precoding, IQ compression) which are implementation specific and may also depend on system configurations/capabilities (for example, whether a O-DU is connected to a CAT-A/CAT-B O-RU). Each of these physical channels/signals can be implemented with/without these optional functional blocks. The AAL Application interface shall expose to the AAL Application whether these functional blocks are supported or not within the AAL Implementation. Figure 7.1.1-2: illustrates the building blocks for processing various O-DU PHY layer Uplink (UL) channels and signals (with 7.2-x functional split between O-DU and O-RU) defined by 3GPP [6] as part of 5G NR specification. L2 + PUSCH UL data TB CRC check CB CRC + CB Desegmentation PUCCH format 2/3/4 UCI LDPC decoding CRC check Rate dematching Polar/Block decoding CB Deconcatenation Rate dematching PRACH Descrambling Descrambling Preamble detection + Demodulation PUCCH format 1 Demodulation delay estimation IDFT for DFT-s- UCI IDFT for DFT-s-OFDM Peak search OFDM Demodulation Noise estimation Channel Channel PUCCH format 0 Channel equalization equalization UCI equalization IFFT SRS PT-RS Channel Sequence Channel Root sequence Channel Sequence Channel estimation estimation detection estimation correlation estimation detection RE demapping RE demapping RE demapping RE demapping RE demapping RE demapping RE demapping IQ IQ IQ IQ IQ IQ IQ decompression* decompression* decompression* decompression* decompression* decompression* decompression* O-RAN FH (7-2x lower layer split) Figure 7.1.1-2: O-DU PHY processing blocks for 5G NR Uplink The O-DU PHY layer in uplink consists of the following physical channels and reference signals:

# 24 • Physical Uplink Shared Channel (PUSCH).
- Physical Uplink Control Channels (PUCCH) with formats 0/1/2/3/4.

# 26 • Physical Random-Access Channel (PRACH).

# 8 Channel estimation and equalization: up to O-DU implementation.
Transform precoding (IDFT): optional, only required for DFT-s-OFDM waveform. Refer to Subclause 6.3.1.4 of [6] for details on transform precoding (if applicable) applied at the transmitter. Demodulation: Refer to Subclause 6.3.1.2 in [6] for details on modulation applied at the transmitter. Descrambling: Refer to Subclause 6.3.1.1 in [6] for details on scrambling applied at the transmitter. CB de-concatenation: Refer to Subclause 6.2.6 in [7] for details on CB concatenation applied at the transmitter. Rate de-matching: Refer to Subclause 6.2.5 in [7] for details on rate matching applied at the transmitter. LDPC decoding: Refer to Subclause 6.2.4 in [7] for details on LDPC encoding applied at the transmitter. CB de-segmentation and CB CRC check: Refer to Subclause 6.2.3 in [7] for details on CB segmentation and CB CRC attachment applied at the transmitter. TB CRC check: Refer to Subclause 6.2.1 in [7] for details on TB level CRC attachments applied at the transmitter. The uplink physical layer processing for control channel (PUCCH) carrying UCI depends on PUCCH formats. PUCCH format 0 processing consists of the following steps at the receiver (O-DU): RE de-mapping: Refer to subclause 6.3.2.3.2 of [6] for details on RE mapping applied at the transmitter. Sequence detection: The transmitted sequence (refer to Subclause 6.3.2.3 in [6] for details) is detected at O-DU using a non-coherent detector, since PUCCH format 0 does not carry any DM-RS. The detailed design is up to O-DU implementation. PUCCH format 1 processing consists of the following steps at the receiver (O-DU): RE de-mapping: Refer to Subclauses 6.3.2.4.2 and 6.4.1.3.1.2 of [6] for details on RE mapping applied at the transmitter.

# 28 Channel estimation and equalization: up to O-DU implementation.
Demodulation: Refer to Subclause 6.3.2.4.1 in [6] for details on modulation applied at the transmitter. PUCCH formats 2/3/4 processing consists of the following steps at the receiver (O-DU): RE de-mapping: Refer to Subclauses 6.3.2.5.3 and 6.4.1.3.2.2 (format 2); 6.3.2.6.5 and 6.4.1.3.3.2 (formats 3/4) of [6] for details on RE mapping applied at the transmitter.

# 33 Channel estimation and equalization: up to O-DU implementation.
Transform precoding (IDFT): optional, only required for DFT-s-OFDM waveform. Refer to Subclause 6.3.2.6.4 of [6] for details on transform precoding (applicable for formats 3/4) applied at the transmitter. Demodulation: Refer to Subclause 6.3.2.5.2 (format 2) and 6.3.2.6.2 (formats 3/4) in [6] for details on modulation applied at the transmitter. Descrambling: Refer to Subclause 6.3.2.5.1 (format 2) and 6.3.2.6.1 (formats 3/4) in [6] for details on scrambling applied at the transmitter. Rate de-matching: Refer to Subclause 6.3.1.4 in [7] for details on rate matching applied at the transmitter. Polar/Block decoding: Refer to Subclause 6.3.1.3 in [7] for details on Polar/Block encoding applied at the transmitter. CRC check: Refer to Subclause 6.3.1.2 in [7] for details on CRC attachment applied at the transmitter. The uplink physical layer processing for random access channel (PRACH) carrying preamble consists of the following steps at the receiver (O-DU): RE de-mapping: Refer to Subclause 6.3.3.2 in [6] for details on RE mapping applied at the transmitter. Root sequence correlation: Perform correlation operation between root sequence and received signals. Refer to Subclause 6.3.3.1 in [6] for details on root sequence generation. IFFT: perform the inverse Fast Fourier Transform (iFFT) operation on the received signal(s).

# 10 Noise estimation: perform the noise estimation operation.
Peak search: detect the peak for different root sequences. Preamble detection and Timing Advance (TA) or delay estimation: determine the preamble sequence(s) received and the corresponding timing advance estimate(s). The uplink physical signals (SRS, PT-RS) do not carry any information from the higher layers (i.e. layer 2 and above). The Sounding Reference Signal (SRS) in uplink is received at O-DU using the following steps: RE de-mapping: Refer to Subclauses 6.4.1.4.3 and 6.4.1.4.4 in [6] for details on RE mapping applied at the transmitter. Sequence detection and Channel estimation: Up to O-DU implementation. Refer to 6.4.1.4.2 in [6] for details on SRS sequence generation at the transmitter. Channel condition in uplink is estimated at the O-DU based on the processing of received SRS. The Phase-Tracking Reference Signal (PT-RS) in uplink is received at the O-DU using the following steps: RE de-mapping: Refer to Subclause 6.4.1.2.2 in [6] for details on RE mapping applied at the transmitter. Sequence detection: Up to O-DU implementation. Refer to Subclause 6.4.1.2.1 in [6] for details on sequence generation at the transmitter. An O-DU AAL profile for 5G NR uplink shall specify a set of accelerated functions corresponding to one or more than one physical uplink channel(s) and/or physical uplink signal(s). In addition to the processing blocks mentioned above, each of these uplink physical channels/signals may include an additional functional block, viz. IQ decompression, which is implementation specific and may depend on system configuration/capability. Each of these physical channels/signals can be implemented with/without this optional functional block. The AAL Application interface shall expose to the AAL Application whether these functional blocks are supported or not within the AAL Implementation.

### 7.1.2 O-DU Protocol Stack Reference for mMTC
Figure 7.1.2-1 illustrates the building blocks for processing various O-DU PHY layer Downlink (DL) channels and signals (with 7.2-x functional split between O-DU and O-RU) defined by 3GPP in [8] & [9] as part of 4G/5G NR specification. Figure 7.1.2-1: O-DU PHY processing blocks for mMTC Downlink. The O-DU PHY layer in downlink consists of the following physical channels and reference signals:

# 5 • Narrow-band Physical Downlink Shared Channel (NPDSCH).

# 6 • Narrow-band Physical Downlink Control Channel (NPDCCH).

# 7 • Narrow-band Physical Broadcast Channel (NPBCH).

# 8 • Narrow-band Primary Synchronization Signal (NPSS).

# 9 • Narrow-band Secondary Synchronization Signal (NSSS).
- Narrow-band Reference Signal (NRS) and Narrow-band Position Reference Signal (NPRS).

# 11 • Narrow-band Wake-Up Signal (NWUS)
The Narrow-band downlink physical channels (NPDSCH, NPDCCH, NPBCH) carry information originating from higher layers (i.e. layer 2 and above). The Narrow-band downlink physical layer processing of data channel (NPDSCH) carrying transport blocks consists of the following steps: TB CRC attachment: Error detection is provided on each transport block (TB) through a Cyclic Redundancy Check (CRC). Refer to Subclause 6.4 in [9] for details. CRC attachment: CRC attachment is performed according to Subclauses 6.4 of [9] T

# N P D S C H T B ( s )

# B C R C a t t a c h m e n
T a il B it in g C o n v o lu t io n a l C o d in g R a t e m a t c h in g

# C B c o n c a t e n a t io n
S c r a m b lin g M o d u la t io n L a y e r m a p p in g P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p r e s s io n * t

# N P D C C H ( D C I)

# C R C a t t a c h m e n t
T a il B it in g C o n v o lu t io n a l C o d in g R a t e m a t c h in g S c r a m b lin g M o d u la t io n ( Q P S K ) P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p r e s s io n *

# O - R A N F H ( 7 - 2

# L 2 +

# N P B C H T B

# P B C H p a y lo a d
g e n e r a t io n

# C R C
a t t a c h m e n t T a il B it in g C o n v o lu t io n a l C o d in g R a t e M a t c h in g

# N P S S / N S

# N R S S c r a m b lin g
S e q u e n M o d u la t io n G e n e r a t L a y e r M a p p in g M o d u la t P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p r e s s io n * x lo w e r la y e r s p lit )

# S S /
c e io n io n IQ

# N P R S / N W U S
S e q u e n c e G e n e r a t io n M o d u la t io n P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
c o m p r e s s io n * Tail-biting Convolutional coding: Refer to Subclauses 6.2 and 5.1.3.1 in [9] for details. Rate matching: Refer to Subclauses 6.4 in [9] for details. Scrambling: Refer to Subclause 10.2.5.2 in [8] for details. Modulation: Refer to Subclause 10.2.5.3 in [8] for details. Layer mapping: Refer to Subclause 10.2.5.3in [8] for details. RE mapping: Refer to Subclause 10.2.5.5in [8] for details on Resource Element (RE) mapping. The downlink physical layer processing of control channel (PDCCH) carrying Downlink Control Information (DCI) consists of the following steps: CRC attachment: Error detection is provided on DCI transmissions through a Cyclic Redundancy Check (CRC). Refer to Subclause 6.4 in [9] for details. Tail-biting Convolutional coding: Refer to Subclauses 6.2 and 5.1.3.1 in [9] for details. Scrambling: Refer to Subclause 10.2.5.2 in [8] for details. Modulation: Refer to Subclause 10.2.5.3 in [8] for details. Layer mapping: Refer to Subclause 10.2.5.3 in [8] for details. RE mapping: Refer to Subclause 10.2.5.5 in [8] for details on Resource Element (RE) mapping. The downlink physical layer processing of broadcast channel (NPBCH) carrying maximum one transport block consists of the following steps: NPBCH payload generation: Refer to Subclause 6.4.1 in [9] for details. TB CRC attachment: Error detection is provided on each transport block (TB) through a Cyclic Redundancy Check (CRC). Refer to Subclause 6.4 in [9] for details. Scrambling: Refer to Subclause 10.2.5.2 in [8] for details. Modulation: Refer to Subclause 10.2.5.3 in [8] for details. Layer mapping: Refer to Subclause 10.2.5.3 in [8] for details. RE mapping: Refer to Subclause 10.2.5.5 in [8] for details on Resource Element (RE) mapping. The downlink physical signals (NRS, NPSS, NSSS, NPRS, NWUS) correspond to a set of resource elements used by the physical layer but does not carry information originated from higher layers (i.e., layer 2 and above). Reference Signals and Synchronization signals (NPSS/NSSS) are generated using the following steps: Sequence Generation and Modulation and RE mapping: Refer to Subclauses, 10.2.6B (NWUS), 10.2.7.1 (NPSS) and

#### 10.2.7.2 (NSSS), 10.2.6 (NRS), 10.2.6A (NPRS) in [8] for details.
An O-DU AAL profile for 4G NR downlink shall specify a set of accelerated functions corresponding to one or more than one physical downlink channel(s) and/or physical downlink signal(s). In addition to the processing blocks mentioned above, each of these downlink physical channels/signals may include some additional functional blocks (e.g., precoding, IQ compression) which are implementation specific and may also depend on system configurations/capabilities (for example, whether a O-DU is connected to a CAT-A/CAT-B O-RU). Each of these physical channels/signals can be implemented with/without these optional functional blocks. The AAL Application interface shall expose to the AAL Application whether these functional blocks are supported or not within the AAL Implementation. Figure 7.1.2-2 illustrates the building blocks for processing various O-DU PHY layer Uplink (UL) channels and signals (with 7.2-x functional split between O-DU and O-RU) defined by 3GPP in [8] & [9] as part of 4G/5G NR specification.

# N P U S C H

# C R C c h e c k
T u r b o d e c o d in g R a t e d e m a t c h in g D e s c r a m b lin g D e m o d u la t io n L a y e r D e m a p p in g

# O F D M
C h a n n e l e q u a l i z a t i o n C h a n n e l e s t im a t io n

# R E d e m a p p in g

# I Q
d e c o m p r e s s io n *

# D M
d F R e Ro E E c S w it h P U r m a t 1 a n F o r m a t 2 C h a n n e l s t im a t io n d e m a p p in

# I Q
o m p r e s s io

# O - R A N F H

# S C H
d g n * ( 7 - 2 L x

# P U S C H F o r m a t 2

# U C I

# A C - N A C K d e t e c t i o n
C h a n n e l d e c o d in g R a t e d e m a t c h in g D e s c r a m b l i n g D e m o d u la t io n C h a n n e l e q u a liz a t io C h a n n e l e s t im a t io n

# R E d e m a p p in g

# I Q d e c o m p r e s s io n *
lo w e r la y e r s p lit ) n d N d e o R R e

# N P R A C H
P r e a m b le d e t e c t io n + la y e s t im a t io P e a k s e a r c h is e e s t im a t io

# I F F T
o o t s e q u e n c e c o r r e la t io n E d e m a p p in g

# I Q
c o m p r e s s io n n n * Figure 7.1.2-2: O-DU PHY processing blocks for mMTC Uplink The O-DU PHY layer in uplink consists of the following physical channels and reference signals:

# 4 • Narrow-band Physical Uplink Shared Channel (NPUSCH).

# 5 • Narrow-band Physical Random-Access Channel (NPRACH).
The uplink physical channels (NPUSCH, NPRACH) carry information originating from higher layers (i.e., layer 2 and above). The uplink physical layer processing of shared channel (NPUSCH) carrying uplink data with or without Uplink Control Information (UCI) consists of the following steps at the receiver (O-DU): RE (de)mapping: Refer to Subclauses 5.3.4 of [8] for details on RE mapping at the transmitter/receiver.

# 11 Channel estimation and equalization: up to O-DU implementation.
Transform precoding (IDFT): optional, only required for DFT-s-OFDM waveform. Refer to Subclause 5.3.3A of [8] for details on transform precoding (if applicable) applied at the transmitter. Demodulation: Refer to Subclause 5.3.2 in [8] for details on modulation applied at the transmitter. Descrambling: Refer to Subclause 5.3.1 in [8] for details on scrambling applied at the transmitter. Rate de-matching: Refer to Subclause 5.1.4.1 in [9] for details on rate matching applied at the transmitter. Turbo decoding: Refer to Subclause 5.1.3.2 in [9] for details on Turbo decoding applied at the transmitter. CRC check: Refer to Subclauses 5.1.1 in [9] for details on TB and CB level CRC attachments applied at the transmitter. The uplink physical layer processing for shared channel (NPUSCH) carrying UCI depends on NPUSCH formats. An O-DU AAL profile for 4G/5G NR uplink shall specify a set of accelerated functions corresponding to one or more than one physical uplink channel(s) and/or physical uplink signal(s). In addition to the processing blocks mentioned above, each of these uplink physical channels/signals may include an additional functional block, viz. IQ decompression, which is implementation specific and may depend on system configuration/capability. Each of these physical channels/signals can be implemented with/without this optional functional block. The AAL Application interface shall expose to the AAL Application whether these functional blocks are supported or not within the AAL Implementation.

### 7.1.3 O-DU AAL Profile Definitions
O-DU AAL profiles are defined below with future specification(s) to define the AAL Application interface for each profile.

# 14 7.1.3.1 Profile Definitions General Guidelines

# 15 7.1.3.1.1 Naming
As discussed above O-DU AAL profiles are specific to one or more physical channel(s) or signal(s) as such should follow the naming guidelines
- O-DU AAL profiles shall be prefixed with “AAL_”
- O-DU AAL profiles when specific to a single channel or signal shall include the channel or signal in the name
e.g. “AAL_PUSCH”
- O-DU AAL profiles when common across multiple channels or signals shall not include the channel or signal
name, instead just reference the Accelerated Function(s), e.g. AAL_RE-MAPPING
- O-DU AAL profiles that include a subset of the functional blocks within a channel or signal shall include a
functional description after the channel name e.g. AAL_PUSCH_CHANNEL_ESTIMATION

# 26 7.1.3.1.2 Data Flow
O-DU AAL profiles shall specify the data flow supported by the AAL Profile. Look aside data flow implies the remaining functions not included in the Profile that comprise the channel or signal are implemented on the AAL Application or other entity associated with the AAL Application and not implemented in the

# 30 HW Accelerator.
Inline data flow implies that the signal (with a 7-2x PHY functional split) and the IQ data from the AAL Application (in DL) or the decoded bits (in UL) (post processing) are transferred directly from the HW Accelerator to the Fronthaul interface (in DL) or to the AAL Application (in UL). The profile shall specify if the data flow includes only user plane, or only control plane, or both.

# 4 Figure 7.1.3.2.1-1: AAL_MU-MIMO_PRECODER_WEIGHTS_CALC
The AAL_MU-MIMO_PRECODER_WEIGHTS_CALC is used by AAL Application to offload beamforming (precoding) weight calculation to the hardware accelerator (HWA) in look-aside acceleration mode. The AAL Application shall provide HWA with all the information required to calculate precoding weights. This profile is implemented as a look aside accelerator. The below figure shows an example use of the AAL_MU-MIMO_PRECODER_WEIGHTS_CALC in an O-DU with

# 10 AAL_DOWNLINK_HIGH-PHY and AAL_UPLINK_HIGH-PHY
LPc ora o k - a o f ile l c u l a s i d e A f o r p r t io n

# A L
e c o W d e r P e i g rhF et csu o Cn d c eat rlc i o / Bun Fla t A io A n H L W

# G P
A A P p c / C p l c e P ic le U a r t i o a t o n H r i g h P H Y P r o f I n P r d a il e l i n o f t a ei l p H i e f o a t h g h P r s l p r o h y A o t l e v c e d u Aer e l L

# 12 Figure 7.1.3.2.1-2: Example AAL_MU-MIMO_PRECODER_WEIGHTS_CALC use.

# P U S C H

# U L d a ta

# T B C R C c h e ck

# C B C R C + C B
d e s e g m e n ta tio n

# L D P C d e c o d in g
R a te d e m a tc h in g

# C B
d e c o n c a te n ta tio n D e sc ra m b lin g D e m o d u la tio n ID F T fo r D F T -s -

# O F D M
C h a n n e l e q u a liza tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n *

# P U C C H fo rm a t 0

# U C I
S e q u e n c e d e te ctio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n *

# P U C C H fo rm a t 1

# U C I
D e m o d u la tio n C h a n n e l e q u a liza tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n *

# O -R A N

# L 2 +

# P U C C H fo rm a t 2 / 3 / 4

# U C I

# C R C c h e ck
P o la r/B lo ck d e co d in g R a te d e m a tc h in g D e sc ra m b lin g D e m o d u la tio n ID F T fo r D F T -s -

# O F D M
C h a n n e l e q u a liz a tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re ssio n *

# F H (7 -2 x lo w e r la y e r sp lit)

# P R A C H
P re a m b le d e te ctio n + d e la y e stim a tio n P e a k se a rc h N o is e e stim a tio n IF F T R o o t se q u e n c e c o rre la tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n * d R e

# S R S
C h a n n e l e stim a tio n E d e m a p p in IQ c o m p re s sio g n * d R e E c

# P T -R S
S e q u e n c e d e te ctio n d e m a p p in g IQ o m p re s sio n *

# 3 Figure 7.1.3.2.2-1: AAL_FFT
The AAL_FFT is used by application to offload FFT/iFFT processing to the hardware accelerator (HWA) in look- aside acceleration mode. The application shall provide HW Accelerator with all the information required to perform the FFT operations. The AAL_FFT Profile can be used for 3GPP specification 38.211 clause 5.3, and clause 6.4.1.4. The below list and Figure 7.1.3.2.2-1: AAL_FFT highlights the set of accelerated functions that define the AAL_FFT Profile.

# 8 • Zero Padding

# 9 • iDFT

# 10 • Windowing

# 11 • DFT

# 12 • De padding

# 13 • Timing Error Correction

# 14 • Frequency De-Windowing

# 15 • Frequency Re-Sampling
The below figure shows an example use of the AAL_FFT Profile for accelerating the SRS processing in an O-DU. The highlighted blocks show the set the accelerated functions while the clear blocks are implemented in software. Zadoff-Chu, RB/ Comb Extraction Zero Padding L2 + iDFT Ncs Windowing SRS Channel Ncs DFT estimation RE demapping Depadding IQ Time Error decompression* Correction* O-RAN FH (7-2x lower layer split) De-windowing* FFT Power* Freq re-sample* SNR and Channel Estimate. Note The figure represents the two data outputs from the profile, the FFT Power estimate and the frequency samples. Note The figure is a representative example implementation of SRS Channel estimation only

# 5 Figure 7.1.3.2.2-2: AAL_FFT example for SRS Processing
This profile is implemented as a look aside accelerator.

# 7 7.1.3.3 O-DU AAL Profiles for Downlink

# 8 7.1.3.3.1 AAL_PDSCH_FEC
Figure 7.1.3.3.1-1 highlights the set of accelerated functions that define the AAL_PDSCH_FEC Profile. These include:

# 10 • CRC Generation

# 11 • LDPC Encoding

# 12 • PDSCH Rate Matching
The AAL_PDSCH_FEC Profile is implemented as a look aside accelerator. The AAL_PDSCH_FEC Profile will support both Transport Block and Code Block operations. C

# P D S C H T B (s )

# T B C R C
a tt a c h m e n t B se g m e n ta tio n + C B

# C R C a tta c h m e n t

# L D P C e n c o d in g
R a te m a t c h in g

# C B c o n c a te n a t io n

# P D S C H D M -R
S c r a m b lin g S e q u e n c e g e n e ra tio n M o d u la t io n M o d u la t io n L a y e r m a p p in g P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p re s s io n * S

# L 2 +

# P D C C H (D C I)

# C R C a tt a c h m e n t
P o la r e n c o d in g

# P D C C H D M -R S R a t e m a tc h in g
S e q u e n c e S c r a m b lin g g e n e ra tio n M o d u la t io n M o d u la t io n (Q P S K ) P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p re s s io n *

# O -R A N F H (7 -2 x lo w e r la y e r s p

# P B C H T B

# P B C H p a y lo a d
g e n e ra tio n S c r a m b lin g

# T B C R C
a tta c h m e n t P o la r e n c o d in g

# P S S / S S S
R a t e m a tc h in g P B C H D M -R S D a ta S e q u e n c e s c r a m b lin g G e n e r a tio n M o d u la t io n M o d u la t io n (Q P S K ) P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p re s s io n * lit)

# C S
IQ I-R S / P T -R S / T R S S e q u e n c e G e n e r a tio n M o d u la t io n P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
c o m p re s s io n *

# 3 7.1.3.3.2 AAL_PDSCH_HIGH-PHY
Figure 7.1.3.3.2-1 highlights the set of accelerated functions that defines the AAL_PDSCH_HIGH-PHY Profile, which includes the processing of PDSCH TB(s) and associated DM-RS. The set of accelerated functions associated with the processing of PDSCH TB(s) is as follows:

# 7 • TB CRC attachment

# 8 • CB segmentation and CRC attachment

# 9 • LDPC encoding

# 10 • Rate matching

# 11 • CB concatenation

# 12 • Scrambling

# 13 • Modulation

# 14 • Layer mapping

# 15 • Precoding 1

# 16 • RE mapping

# 17 • IQ compression1
Configurable functional block, depends on implementation and/or system configuration The set of accelerated functions associated with the processing of PDSCH DM-RS is as follows:

# 3 • PDSCH DM-RS sequence generation

# 4 • Modulation

# 5 • Precoding1

# 6 • RE mapping

# 7 • IQ compression1
The AAL_PDSCH_HIGH-PHY Profile is executed in inline acceleration mode.

# P D S C H T B (s )

# T B C R C
a tt a c h m e n t

# C B s e g m e n ta t io n +

# C R C a tta c h m e n t

# L D P C e n c o d in g
R a te m a t c h in g

# C B c o n c a t e n a tio n
S c r a m b lin g M o d u la t io n L a y e r m a p p in g P r e c o d in

# R E m a p p

# I Q c o m p r e s

# P D S C H D M -R
S e q u e n c e g e n e r a t io n M o d u la t io n g * in g s io n * S

# L 2 +

# P D C C H (D C I)

# C R C a tt a c h m e n t
P o la r e n c o d in g

# P D C C H D M -R S R a t e m a tc h in g
S e q u e n c e S c r a m b lin g g e n e ra tio n M o d u la t io n M o d u la t io n (Q P S K ) P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p re s s io n *

# O -R A N F H (7 -2 x lo w e r la y e r s p

# P B C H T B

# P B C H p a y lo a d
g e n e ra tio n S c r a m b lin g

# T B C R C
a tta c h m e n t P o la r e n c o d in g

# P S S / S S S
R a t e m a tc h in g P B C H D M -R S D a ta S e q u e n c e s c r a m b lin g G e n e r a tio n M o d u la t io n M o d u la t io n (Q P S K ) P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p re s s io n * lit)

# C S
IQ I-R S / P T -R S / T R S S e q u e n c e G e n e r a tio n M o d u la t io n P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
c o m p re s s io n *

# 12 Figure 7.1.3.3.2-1: AAL_PDSCH_HIGH-PHY Profile

# 13 7.1.3.3.3 AAL_PDCCH_HIGH-PHY
Figure 7.1.3.3.3-1 highlights the set of accelerated functions that defines the AAL_PDCCH_HIGH-PHY Profile, which includes the processing of PDCCH DCI and associated DM-RS. The set of accelerated functions associated with the processing of PDCCH TB(s) is as follows:

# 17 • CRC attachment

# 18 • Polar encoding

# 19 • Rate matching

# 20 • Scrambling

# 21 • Modulation (QPSK)

# 3 • IQ compression1
The set of accelerated functions associated with the processing of PDCCH DM-RS is as follows:

# 6 • PDCCH DM-RS sequence generation

# 7 • Modulation

# 8 • Precoding1

# 9 • RE mapping

# 10 • IQ compression1
The AAL_PDCCH_HIGH-PHY Profile is executed in inline acceleration mode.

# P D S C H T B (s )

# T B C R C a t ta c h m e n t

# C B s e g m e n ta tio n +

# C R C a tt a c h m e n t

# L D P C e n c o d in g
R a t e m a tc h in g

# C B c o n c a te n a t io n
P S c r a m b lin g M o d u la t io n L a y e r m a p p in g P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p re s s io n

# D S C H D M -R
S e q u e n c e g e n e ra tio n M o d u la t io n * S P R

# L 2 +

# P D C C H (D C I)

# C R C
a tt a c h m e n t o la r e n c o d in g

# P D C C H D M -R S a te m a t c h in g
S e q u e n c e S c r a m b lin g g e n e r a t io n M o d u la t io n M o d u la t io n (Q P S K ) P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g

# I Q c o m p r e s s io n *

# O -R A N F H (7 -2 x lo w e r la y e r s p

# P B C H T B

# P B C H p a y lo a d
g e n e ra tio n S c r a m b lin g

# T B C R C
a tta c h m e n t P o la r e n c o d in g

# P S S / S S S
R a t e m a tc h in g P B C H D M -R S D a ta S e q u e n c e s c r a m b lin g G e n e r a tio n M o d u la t io n M o d u la t io n (Q P S K ) P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p re s s io n * lit)

# C S
IQ I-R S / P T -R S / T R S S e q u e n c e G e n e r a tio n M o d u la t io n P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
c o m p re s s io n *

# 13 Figure 7.1.3.3.3-1: AAL_PDCCH_HIGH-PHY Profile

# 14 7.1.3.3.4 AAL_PBCH_HIGH-PHY
Figure 7.1.3.3.4-1 highlights the set of accelerated functions that defines the AAL_PBCH_HIGH-PHY Profile, which includes the processing of PBCH TB and associated DM-RS, PSS and SSS, or in other words, the processing of SSB. The set of accelerated functions associated with the processing of PBCH TB is as follows:

# 18 • PBCH payload generation

# 19 • Scrambling

# 20 • TB CRC attachment

# 21 • Polar encoding

# 3 • Modulation (QPSK)

# 4 • Precoding1

# 5 • RE mapping

# 6 • IQ compression1
The set of accelerated functions associated with the processing of PBCH DM-RS/PSS/SSS is as follows:

# 9 • PDCCH DM-RS/PSS/SSS sequence generation

# 10 • Modulation

# 11 • Precoding1

# 12 • RE mapping

# 13 • IQ compression1
The AAL_PBCH_HIGH-PHY Profile is executed in inline acceleration mode.

# P D S C H T B (s )

# T B C R C a t ta c h m e n t

# C B s e g m e n ta tio n +

# C B C R C a tt a c h m e n t

# L D P C e n c o d in g
R a t e m a tc h in g

# C B c o n c a te n a t io n

# P D S C H D M -R
S c r a m b lin g S e q u e n c e g e n e ra tio n M o d u la t io n M o d u la t io n L a y e r m a p p in g P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p re s s io n * S

# L 2 +

# P D C C H (D C I)

# C R C a tt a c h m e n t
P o la r e n c o d in g

# P D C C H D M -R S R a t e m a tc h in g
S e q u e n c e S c r a m b lin g g e n e ra tio n M o d u la t io n M o d u la t io n (Q P S K ) P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p re s s io n *

# O -R A N F H (7 -2 x lo w e r la y e r s p

# P B C H T B

# P B C H p a y lo a d
g e n e r a tio n S c ra m b lin g

# T B C R C
a tta c h m e n t P o la r e n c o d in g

# P S S / S S S
R a te m a tc h in g P B C H D M -R S D a ta S e q u e n c e s c r a m b lin g G e n e ra tio n M o d u la tio n M o d u la tio n (Q P S K ) P re c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p r e s s io n * lit)

# C S
IQ I-R S / P T -R S / T R S S e q u e n c e G e n e r a tio n M o d u la t io n P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
c o m p re s s io n *

# 17 Figure 7.1.3.3.4-1: AAL_PBCH_HIGH-PHY Profile

# 19 7.1.3.3.5 AAL_CSI-RS_HIGH-PHY
Figure 7.1.3.3.5-1 highlights the set of accelerated functions that defines the AAL_CSI-RS_HIGH-PHY Profile, which includes the following:

# 3 • Precoding1

# 4 • RE mapping

# 5 • IQ compression1
The AAL_CSI-RS_HIGH-PHY Profile is executed in inline acceleration mode.

# P D S C H T B (s )

# T B C R C a t ta c h m e n t

# C B s e g m e n ta tio n +

# C B C R C a tt a c h m e n t

# L D P C e n c o d in g
R a t e m a tc h in g

# C B c o n c a te n a t io n

# P D S C H D M -R
S c r a m b lin g S e q u e n c e g e n e ra tio n M o d u la t io n M o d u la t io n L a y e r m a p p in g P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p re s s io n * S

# L 2 +

# P D C C H (D C I)

# C R C a tt a c h m e n t
P o la r e n c o d in g

# P D C C H D M -R S R a t e m a tc h in g
S e q u e n c e S c r a m b lin g g e n e ra tio n M o d u la t io n M o d u la t io n (Q P S K ) P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p re s s io n *

# O -R A N F H (7 -2 x lo w e r la y e r s p

# P B C H T B

# P B C H p a y lo a d
g e n e ra tio n S c r a m b lin g

# T B C R C
a tta c h m e n t P o la r e n c o d in g

# P S S / S S S
R a t e m a tc h in g P B C H D M -R S D a ta S e q u e n c e s c r a m b lin g G e n e r a tio n M o d u la t io n M o d u la t io n (Q P S K ) P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p re s s io n * lit)

# C S I-R S / P T -R S / T
S e q u e n c e G e n e ra tio n M o d u la tio n P re c o d in g *

# R E M a p p in g
IQ c o m p r e s s io R n S *

# 9 Figure 7.1.3.3.5-1: AAL_CSI-RS_HIGH-PHY Profile

# 11 7.1.3.3.6 AAL_PT-RS-DL_HIGH-PHY
Figure 7.1.3.3.6-1 highlights the set of accelerated functions that defines the AAL_PT-RS-DL_HIGH-PHY Profile, which includes the following:

# 14 • PT-RS sequence generation

# 15 • Modulation

# 16 • Precoding1

# 17 • RE mapping

# 18 • IQ compression1
The AAL_PT-RS-DL_HIGH-PHY Profile is executed in inline acceleration mode.

# P D S C H T B (s )

# T B C R C a t ta c h m e n t

# C B s e g m e n ta tio n +

# C B C R C a tt a c h m e n t

# L D P C e n c o d in g
R a t e m a tc h in g

# C B c o n c a te n a t io n

# P D S C H D M -R
S c r a m b lin g S e q u e n c e g e n e ra tio n M o d u la t io n M o d u la t io n L a y e r m a p p in g P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p re s s io n * S

# L 2 +

# P D C C H (D C I)

# C R C a tt a c h m e n t
P o la r e n c o d in g

# P D C C H D M -R S R a t e m a tc h in g
S e q u e n c e S c r a m b lin g g e n e ra tio n M o d u la t io n M o d u la t io n (Q P S K ) P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p re s s io n *

# O -R A N F H (7 -2 x lo w e r la y e r s p

# P B C H T B

# P B C H p a y lo a d
g e n e ra tio n S c r a m b lin g

# T B C R C
a tta c h m e n t P o la r e n c o d in g

# P S S / S S S
R a t e m a tc h in g P B C H D M -R S D a ta S e q u e n c e s c r a m b lin g G e n e r a tio n M o d u la t io n M o d u la t io n (Q P S K ) P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p re s s io n * lit) IQ

# P T -R S -D L
S e q u e n c e G e n e ra tio n M o d u la tio n P re c o d in g *

# R E M a p p in g
c o m p r e s s io n *

# 3 7.1.3.3.7 AAL_DOWNLINK_HIGH-PHY
Figure 7.1.3.3.7-1 highlights the set of accelerated functions that defines the AAL_DOWNLINK_HIGH-PHY Profile. This profile includes the aggregation of all the individual downlink channel profiles as follows:

# 6 PDSCH
- Data: see list of accelerated functions associated with the processing of PDSCH TB(s), per section 7.1.3.3.2
- DM-RS: see list of accelerated functions associated with the processing of PDSCH DM-RS, per section

# 9 7.1.3.3.2.
- PT-RS: see list of accelerated functions listed in section 7.1.3.3.6.

# 12 PDCCH:
- Data: see list of accelerated functions associated with the processing of PDCCH TB(s), per section 7.1.3.3.3
- DM-RS: see list of accelerated functions associated with the processing of PDCCH DM-RS, per section

# 15 7.1.3.3.3

# 17 SSB:
- PSS + SSS: see list of accelerated functions associated with the processing of PSS/SSS, per section 7.1.3.3.4
- PBCH DM-RS: see list of accelerated functions associated with the processing of PBCH DM-RS, per section

# 20 7.1.3.3.4
- PBCH: see list of accelerated functions associated with the processing of PBCH TB(s), per section 7.1.3.3.4

# 23 CSI-RS:
- see list of accelerated functions listed in section 7.1.3.3.5
The AAL_DOWNLINK_HIGH-PHY Profile is executed in inline acceleration mode.

# P D S C H T B (s )

# T B C R C
a tt a c h m e n t

# C B s e g m e n ta t io n +

# C R C a tta c h m e n t

# L D P C e n c o d in g
R a te m a t c h in g

# C B c o n c a t e n a tio n
S c r a m b lin g M o d u la t io n L a y e r m a p p in g P r e c o d in

# R E m a p p

# I Q c o m p r e s

# P D S C H D M -R
S e q u e n c e g e n e r a t io n M o d u la t io n g * in g s io n * S C P R

# L 2 +

# P D C C H (D C I)

# R C a tta c h m e n t
o la r e n c o d in g

# P D C C H D M -R S a te m a t c h in g
S e q u e n c e S c r a m b lin g g e n e r a t io n M o d u la t io n M o d u la t io n (Q P S K ) P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g

# I Q c o m p r e s s io n *

# O -R A N F H (7 -2 x lo w e r la y e r s p

# P B C H T B

# P B C H p a y lo a d
g e n e r a tio n S c r a m b lin g

# T B C R C
a tt a c h m e n t P o la r e n c o d in g

# P S S / S S S
R a te m a tc h in g P B C H D M -R S D a ta S e q u e n c e s c r a m b lin g G e n e r a tio n M o d u la t io n M o d u la t io n (Q P S K ) P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g

# I Q c o m p r e s s io n *
lit)

# C S I-R S / P T -R S / T
S e q u e n c e G e n e ra tio n M o d u la tio n P re c o d in g *

# R E M a p p in g
IQ c o m p r e s s io R n S *

# 3 7.1.3.4 O-DU AAL Profiles for Uplink

# 4 7.1.3.4.1 AAL_PUSCH_FEC
Figure 7.1.3.4.1-1 highlights the set of accelerated functions that define the AAL_PUSCH_FEC Profile. These include:

# 6 • PUSCH Rate De-matching

# 7 • LDPC Decoder

# 8 • CRC Check
The AAL_PUSCH_FEC Profile is implemented as a look aside accelerator. The AAL_PUSCH_FEC Profile will support both Transport Block and Code Block operations.

# P U S C H

# U L d a ta

# T B C R C c h e c k

# C B C R C + C B
d e se g m e n ta tio n

# L D P C d e c o d in g
R a te d e m a tc h in g

# C B
d e c o n c a te n ta tio n D e sc ra m b lin g D e m o d u la tio n ID F T fo r D F T -s -

# O F D M
C h a n n e l e q u a liza tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n *

# P U C C H fo rm a t 0

# U C I
S e q u e n c e d e te ctio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n *

# P U C C H fo rm a t 1

# U C I
D e m o d u la tio n C h a n n e l e q u a liza tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n *

# O -R A N

# L 2 +

# P U C C H fo rm a t 2 / 3 / 4

# U C I

# C R C c h e ck
P o la r/B lo ck d e co d in g R a te d e m a tc h in g D e sc ra m b lin g D e m o d u la tio n ID F T fo r D F T -s -O F D M C h a n n e l e q u a liz a tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re ssio n *

# F H (7 -2 x lo w e r la y e r sp lit)

# P R A C H
P re a m b le d e te ctio n + d e la y e stim a tio n P e a k se a rc h N o is e e stim a tio n IF F T R o o t se q u e n c e c o rre la tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n * d R e

# S R S
C h a n n e l e stim a tio n E d e m a p p in IQ c o m p re s sio g n * d R e E c

# P T -R S
S e q u e n c e d e te ctio n d e m a p p in g IQ o m p re s sio n *

# 3 7.1.3.4.2 AAL_PUSCH_HIGH-PHY
Figure 7.1.3.4.2-1 highlights the set of accelerated functions that defines the AAL_PUSCH_HIGH-PHY Profile, which includes the processing of PUSCH data (with or without UCI). The set of accelerated functions associated with the processing of PUSCH data is as follows:

# 7 • IQ decompression1

# 8 • RE de-mapping

# 9 • Channel estimation

# 10 • Channel equalization
- Transform precoding (optional- only required for DFT-s-OFDM waveform)

# 12 • Demodulation

# 13 • Descrambling

# 14 • Rate de-matching

# 15 • LDPC decoding

# 16 • CRC check
The AAL_PUSCH_HIGH-PHY Profile is executed in inline acceleration mode.

# P U S C H

# U L d a ta

# T B C R C c h e c k

# C B C R C + C B
d e se g m e n ta tio n

# L D P C d e c o d in g
R a te d e m a tc h in g

# C B
d e c o n c a te n ta tio n D e sc r a m b lin g D e m o d u la tio n ID F T fo r D F T -s -

# O F D M
C h a n n e l e q u a liz a tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p r e ssio n *

# P U C C H fo rm a t 0

# U C I
S e q u e n c e d e te ctio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n *

# P U C C H fo rm a t 1

# U C I
D e m o d u la tio n C h a n n e l e q u a liza tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n *

# O -R A N

# L 2 +

# P U C C H fo rm a t 2 / 3 / 4

# U C I

# C R C c h e ck
P o la r/B lo ck d e co d in g R a te d e m a tc h in g D e sc ra m b lin g D e m o d u la tio n ID F T fo r D F T -s -O F D M C h a n n e l e q u a liz a tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re ssio n *

# F H (7 -2 x lo w e r la y e r sp lit)

# P R A C H
P re a m b le d e te ctio n + d e la y e stim a tio n P e a k se a rc h N o is e e stim a tio n IF F T R o o t se q u e n c e c o rre la tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n * d R e

# S R S
C h a n n e l e stim a tio n E d e m a p p in IQ c o m p re s sio g n * d R e E c

# P T -R S
S e q u e n c e d e te ctio n d e m a p p in g IQ o m p re s sio n *

# 3 Figure 7.1.3.4.2-1 : AAL_PUSCH_HIGH-PHY Profile

# 5 7.1.3.4.3 AAL_PUCCH_HIGH-PHY
Figure 7.1.3.4.3.1-1, Figure 7.1.3.4.3.2-1 and Figure 7.1.3.4.3.2-1 highlight the set of accelerated functions that defines the AAL_PUCCH_HIGH-PHY Profile, which includes the processing of UCI. The set of accelerated functions associated with the processing of PUCCH UCI depends on the PUCCH format being configured by the AAL Application.

# 10 7.1.3.4.3.1 PUCCH format 0
The set of accelerated functions associated with the processing of PUCCH UCI using PUCCH format 0 is as follows:

# 12 • IQ decompression1

# 13 • RE de-mapping

# 14 • Sequence detection

# P U S C H

# U L d a ta

# T B C R C c h e ck

# C B C R C + C B
D e se g m e n ta tio n

# L D P C d e c o d in g
R a te d e m a tc h in g

# C B
D e c o n c a te n a tio n D e sc ra m b lin g D e m o d u la tio n ID F T fo r D F T -s -

# O F D M
C h a n n e l e q u a liza tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n *

# P U C C H fo rm a t 0

# U C I
S e q u e n c e d e te c tio n

# R E m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p r e ssio n *

# P U C C H fo rm a t 1

# U C I
D e m o d u la tio n C h a n n e l e q u a liza tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n *

# O -R A N

# L 2 +

# P U C C H fo rm a t 2 / 3 / 4

# U C I

# C R C c h e ck
P o la r/B lo ck d e co d in g R a te d e m a tc h in g D e sc ra m b lin g D e m o d u la tio n ID F T fo r D F T -s -O F D M C h a n n e l e q u a liz a tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re ssio n *

# F H (7 -2 x lo w e r la y e r sp lit)

# P R A C H
P re a m b le d e te ctio n + d e la y e stim a tio n P e a k se a rc h N o is e e stim a tio n IF F T R o o t se q u e n c e c o rre la tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n * d R e

# S R S
C h a n n e l e stim a tio n E d e m a p p in IQ c o m p re s sio g n * d R e E c

# P T -R S
S e q u e n c e d e te ctio n d e m a p p in g IQ o m p re s sio n *

# 4 7.1.3.4.3.2 PUCCH format 1
The set of accelerated functions associated with the processing of PUCCH UCI using PUCCH format 1 is as follows:

# 6 • IQ decompression1

# 7 • RE de-mapping

# 8 • Channel estimation

# 9 • Channel equalization

# 10 • Demodulation

# P U S C H

# U L d a ta

# T B C R C c h e ck

# C B C R C + C B
D e se g m e n ta tio n

# L D P C d e c o d in g
R a te d e m a tc h in g

# C B
D e c o n c a te n a tio n D e sc ra m b lin g D e m o d u la tio n ID F T fo r D F T -s -

# O F D M
C h a n n e l e q u a liza tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n *

# P U C C H fo rm a t 0

# U C I
S e q u e n c e d e te ctio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n *

# P U C C H fo rm a t 1

# U C I
D e m o d u la tio n C h a n n e l e q u a liz a tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p r e ssio n *

# O -R A N

# L 2 +

# P U C C H fo rm a t 2 / 3 / 4

# U C I

# C R C c h e ck
P o la r/B lo ck d e co d in g R a te d e m a tc h in g D e sc ra m b lin g D e m o d u la tio n ID F T fo r D F T -s -O F D M C h a n n e l e q u a liz a tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re ssio n *

# F H (7 -2 x lo w e r la y e r sp lit)

# P R A C H
P re a m b le d e te ctio n + d e la y e stim a tio n P e a k se a rc h N o is e e stim a tio n IF F T R o o t se q u e n c e c o rre la tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n * d R e

# S R S
C h a n n e l e stim a tio n E d e m a p p in IQ c o m p re s sio g n * d R e E c

# P T -R S
S e q u e n c e d e te ctio n d e m a p p in g IQ o m p re s sio n *

# 4 7.1.3.4.3.3 PUCCH format 2/3/4
The set of accelerated functions associated with the processing of PUCCH UCI using PUCCH format 2/3/4 is as follows:

# 7 • IQ decompression1

# 8 • RE de-mapping

# 9 • Channel estimation

# 10 • Channel equalization
- Transform precoding (optional- only required for DFT-s-OFDM waveform)

# 12 • Demodulation

# 13 • Descrambling

# 14 • Rate de-matching

# 15 • Polar/Block decoding

# 16 • CRC check

# P U S C H

# U L d a ta

# T B C R C c h e ck

# C B C R C + C B
D e se g m e n ta tio n

# L D P C d e c o d in g
R a te d e m a tc h in g

# C B
D e c o n c a te n a tio n D e sc ra m b lin g D e m o d u la tio n ID F T fo r D F T -s -

# O F D M
C h a n n e l e q u a liza tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n *

# P U C C H fo rm a t 0

# U C I
S e q u e n c e d e te ctio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n *

# P U C C H fo rm a t 1

# U C I
D e m o d u la tio n C h a n n e l e q u a liza tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n *

# O -R A N

# L 2 +

# P U C C H fo rm a t 2 / 3 / 4

# U C I

# C R C c h e c k
P o lar/B lo ck d eco d in g R a te d e m a tc h in g D e sc r a m b lin g D e m o d u la tio n ID F T fo r D F T -s -

# O F D M
C h a n n e l e q u a liz a tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p r e ss io n *

# F H (7 -2 x lo w e r la y e r sp lit)

# P R A C H
P re a m b le d e te ctio n + d e la y e stim a tio n P e a k se a rc h N o is e e stim a tio n IF F T R o o t se q u e n c e c o rre la tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n * d R e

# S R S
C h a n n e l e stim a tio n E d e m a p p in IQ c o m p re s sio g n * d R e E c

# P T -R S
S e q u e n c e d e te ctio n d e m a p p in g IQ o m p re s sio n *

# 3 Figure 7.1.3.4.3.3-1: AAL_PUCCH_HIGH-PHY Profile (PUCCH format 2/3/4)
The AAL_ PUCCH_ HIGH -PHY profile is executed in inline acceleration mode.

# 5 7.1.3.4.4 AAL_PRACH_HIGH-PHY
Figure 7.1.3.4.4-1 highlights the set of accelerated functions that defines the AAL_PRACH_HIGH-PHY Profile. The set of accelerated functions associated with the processing of PRACH preamble is as follows:

# 8 • IQ decompression1

# 9 • RE de-mapping

# 10 • Root sequence generation and correlation

# 11 • IFFT

# 12 • Noise estimation

# 13 • Peak search for power delay profile

# 14 • Preamble detection and delay/timing advance estimation

# P U S C H

# U L d a ta

# T B C R C c h e ck

# C B C R C + C B
D e se g m e n ta tio n

# L D P C d e c o d in g
R a te d e m a tc h in g

# C B
D e c o n c a te n a tio n D e sc ra m b lin g D e m o d u la tio n ID F T fo r D F T -s -

# O F D M
C h a n n e l e q u a liza tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n *

# P U C C H fo rm a t 0

# U C I
S e q u e n c e d e te ctio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n *

# P U C C H fo rm a t 1

# U C I
D e m o d u la tio n C h a n n e l e q u a liza tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n *

# O -R A N

# L 2 +

# P U C C H fo rm a t 2 / 3 / 4

# U C I

# C R C c h e ck
P o la r/B lo ck d e co d in g R a te d e m a tc h in g D e sc ra m b lin g D e m o d u la tio n ID F T fo r D F T -s -O F D M C h a n n e l e q u a liz a tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re ssio n *

# F H (7 -2 x lo w e r la y e r sp lit)

# P R A C H
P rea m b le d etectio n + d ela y estim a tion P e a k se a r c h N oise estim ation IF F T R o o t se q u e n c e c o r r e la tio n

# R E m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p r e ssio n * d R e

# S R S
C h a n n e l e stim a tio n E d e m a p p in IQ c o m p re s sio g n * d R e E c

# P T -R S
S e q u e n c e d e te ctio n d e m a p p in g IQ o m p re s sio n *

# 4 7.1.3.4.5 AAL_SRS_HIGH-PHY
Figure 7.1.3.4.5-1 highlights the set of accelerated functions that defines the AAL_SRS_HIGH-PHY Profile. The set of accelerated functions associated with the processing of SRS is as follows:

# 7 • IQ decompression1

# 8 • RE de-mapping

# 9 • Channel estimation

# P U S C H

# U L d a ta

# T B C R C c h e ck

# C B C R C + C B
D e se g m e n ta tio n

# L D P C d e c o d in g
R a te d e m a tc h in g

# C B
D e c o n c a te n a tio n D e sc ra m b lin g D e m o d u la tio n ID F T fo r D F T -s -

# O F D M
C h a n n e l e q u a liza tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n *

# P U C C H fo rm a t 0

# U C I
S e q u e n c e d e te ctio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n *

# P U C C H fo rm a t 1

# U C I
D e m o d u la tio n C h a n n e l e q u a liza tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n *

# O -R A N

# L 2 +

# P U C C H fo rm a t 2 / 3 / 4

# U C I

# C R C c h e ck
P o la r/B lo ck d e co d in g R a te d e m a tc h in g D e sc ra m b lin g D e m o d u la tio n ID F T fo r D F T -s -O F D M C h a n n e l e q u a liz a tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re ssio n *

# F H (7 -2 x lo w e r la y e r sp lit)

# P R A C H
P re a m b le d e te ctio n + d e la y e stim a tio n P e a k se a rc h N o is e e stim a tio n IF F T R o o t se q u e n c e c o rre la tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n * d

# S R S
C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E m a p p in g
IQ e c o m p r e ssio n * d R e E c

# P T -R S
S e q u e n c e d e te ctio n d e m a p p in g IQ o m p re s sio n *

# 4 7.1.3.4.6 AAL_PT-RS-UL_HIGH-PHY
Figure 7.1.3.4.6-1 highlights the set of accelerated functions that defines the AAL_PT-RS-UL_HIGH-PHY Profile. The set of accelerated functions associated with the processing of PT-RS-UL sequence is as follows:

# 7 • IQ decompression1

# 8 • RE de-mapping

# 9 • Sequence detection

# P U S C H

# U L d a ta

# T B C R C c h e ck

# C B C R C + C B
D e se g m e n ta tio n

# L D P C d e c o d in g
R a te d e m a tc h in g

# C B
D e c o n c a te n a tio n D e sc ra m b lin g D e m o d u la tio n ID F T fo r D F T -s -

# O F D M
C h a n n e l e q u a liza tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n *

# P U C C H fo rm a t 0

# U C I
S e q u e n c e d e te ctio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n *

# P U C C H fo rm a t 1

# U C I
D e m o d u la tio n C h a n n e l e q u a liza tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n *

# O -R A N

# L 2 +

# P U C C H fo rm a t 2 / 3 / 4

# U C I

# C R C c h e ck
P o la r/B lo ck d e co d in g R a te d e m a tc h in g D e sc ra m b lin g D e m o d u la tio n ID F T fo r D F T -s -O F D M C h a n n e l e q u a liz a tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re ssio n *

# F H (7 -2 x lo w e r la y e r sp lit)

# P R A C H
P re a m b le d e te ctio n + d e la y e stim a tio n P e a k se a rc h N o is e e stim a tio n IF F T R o o t se q u e n c e c o rre la tio n

# R E d e m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p re s sio n * d R e

# S R S
C h a n n e l e stim a tio n E d e m a p p in IQ c o m p re s sio g n * d R e c Sd E o

# P T -R S
e q u e n c e e te c tio n m a p p in g IQ m p r e ssio n *

# 4 7.1.3.4.7 AAL_UPLINK_HIGH-PHY
Figure 7.1.3.4.7-1 highlights the set of accelerated functions that defines the AAL_UPLINK_HIGH-PHY Profile, this profile includes the aggregation of all the individual uplink channel profiles as follows:

# 7 PUSCH:
- Data: see list of accelerated functions associated with the processing of PUSCH data, per section 7.1.3.4.2
- DM-RS: see list of accelerated functions listed in section 7.1.3.4.6, implemented to process DM-RS IQ
samples.
- PT-RS: see list of accelerated functions listed in section 7.1.3.4.6

# 13 PUCCH:
- Format 0: see list of accelerated functions listed in section 7.1.3.4.3.1

# 15 • Format 1:
o UCI: see list of accelerated functions listed in section 7.1.3.4.3.2 o DM-RS: see list of accelerated functions listed in section 7.1.3.4.6, implemented to process DM-RS

# 18 IQ samples.

# 19 • Formats 2/3/4:
o UCI: see list of accelerated functions listed in section 7.1.3.4.3.3 o DM-RS: see list of accelerated functions listed in section 7.1.3.4.6, implemented to process DM-RS

# 22 IQ samples.

# 24 PRACH:
- see list of accelerated functions listed in section 7.1.3.4.4

# P U S C H

# U L d a ta

# T B C R C c h e c k

# C B C R C + C B
d e se g m e n ta tio n

# L D P C d e c o d in g
R a te d e m a tc h in g

# C B
d e c o n c a te n ta tio n D e sc r a m b lin g D e m o d u la tio n ID F T fo r D F T -s -

# O F D M
C h a n n e l e q u a liz a tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p r e ssio n *

# P U C C H fo rm a t 0

# U C I
S e q u e n c e d e te c tio n

# R E m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p r e ssio n *

# P U C C H fo rm a t 1

# U C I
D e m o d u la tio n C h a n n e l e q u a liz a tio n C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E m a p p in g
IQ d e c o m p r e ssio n *

# O -R A N F

# L 2 +

# P U C C H fo rm a t 2 / 3 / 4

# U C I

# C R C c h e c k
P o lar/B lo ck d eco d in g R a te d e m a tc h in g

# P R A C H
D e sc r a m b lin g P rea m b le d etectio n + d ela y estim a tion D e m o d u la tio n ID F T fo r D F T -s - P e a k se a r c h

# O F D M
N oise estim ation C h a n n e l e q u a liz a tio n IF F T R o o t se q u e n c e C h a n n e l e stim a tio n c o r r e la tio n

# R E m a p p in g R E m a p p in g
IQ IQ d e c o m p r e ss io n * d e c o m p r e ssio n *

# H (7 -2 x lo w e r la y e r sp lit)
d

# S R S
C h a n n e l e stim a tio n

# R E m a p p in g
IQ e c o m p r e ssio n * d R e c Sd E o

# P T -R S
e q u e n c e e te c tio n m a p p in g IQ m p r e ssio n *

# 7 Figure 7.1.3.4.7-1: AAL_UPLINK_ HIGH-PHY Profile

# 9 7.1.3.5 O-DU AAL Profiles for mMTC

# 10 7.1.3.5.1 AAL_NPDSCH_FEC
Figure 7.1.3.5.1-1: highlights the set of accelerated functions that define the AAL_NPDSCH_FEC Profile. These include:

# 13 • CRC Generation

# 14 • Tail-Biting Convolutional Coding

# 15 • Rate Matching
The AAL_NPDSCH_FEC Profile is implemented as a look aside accelerator. L2+ NPDSCH TB(s) NPBCH TB TB CRC PBCH payload attachment generation CRC Tail Biting attachment Convolutional N PDCCH (DCI) Coding Tail Biting CRC attachment Convolutional Rate matching Tail Biting Coding Convolutional Rate Matching CB concatenation Coding NPSS/NSSS/ Rate matching Scrambling NRS NPRS/NWUS Scrambling Sequence Sequence Scrambling Modulation Generation Generation Modulation Modulation Layer Mapping Modulation Modulation Layer mapping (QPSK) Precoding* Precoding* Precoding* Precoding* RE mapping RE mapping RE mapping RE mapping IQ compression* IQ compression* IQ compression* IQ compression* O-RAN FH (7-2x lower layer split)

# 3 Figure 7.1.3.5.1-1: AAL_NPDSCH_FEC Profile

# 4 7.1.3.5.2 AAL_NPDCCH_FEC
Figure 7.1.3.5.2-1 highlights the set of accelerated functions that define the AAL_NPDCCH_FEC Profile. These include

# 7 • CRC Generation

# 8 • Tail-Biting Convolutional Coding

# 9 • Rate Matching
The AAL_NPDCCH_FEC Profile is implemented as a look aside accelerator. T

# N P D S C H T B ( s )

# B C R C a t t a c h m e n
T a il B it in g C o n v o lu t io n a l C o d in g R a t e m a t c h in g

# C B c o n c a t e n a t io n
S c r a m b lin g M o d u la t io n L a y e r m a p p in g P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p r e s s io n * t N C C R IQ

# P D C C H ( D C I)

# R C a tt a c h m e n t
T a il B i t in g o n v o l u t i o n a l C o d i n g a t e m a t c h in g S c r a m b lin g M o d u la t io n ( Q P S K ) P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
c o m p r e s s io n *

# O - R A N F H ( 7 - 2

# L 2 +

# N P B C H T B

# P B C H p a y lo a d
g e n e r a t io n

# C R C
a t t a c h m e n t T a il B it in g C o n v o lu t io n a l C o d in g R a t e M a t c h in g

# N P S S / N S S S /

# N R S S c r a m b lin g
S e q u e n c e M o d u la t io n G e n e r a t io n L a y e r M a p p in g M o d u la t io n P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p r e s s io n * x lo w e r la y e r s p lit ) IQ

# N P R S / N W U S
S e q u e n c e G e n e r a t io n M o d u la t io n P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
c o m p r e s s io n *

# 3 7.1.3.5.3 AAL_NPBCH_FEC
Figure 7.1.3.5.3-1 highlights the set of accelerated functions that define the AAL_NPBCH_FEC Profile. These include

# 5 • CRC Generation

# 6 • Tail-Biting Convolutional Coding

# 7 • Rate Matching
The AAL_NPBCH_FEC Profile is implemented as a look aside accelerator. T

# N P D S C H T B ( s )

# B C R C a t t a c h m e n
T a il B it in g C o n v o lu t io n a l C o d in g R a t e m a t c h in g

# C B c o n c a t e n a t io n
S c r a m b lin g M o d u la t io n L a y e r m a p p in g P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p r e s s io n * t

# N P D C C H ( D C I)

# C R C a t t a c h m e n t
T a il B it in g C o n v o lu t io n a l C o d in g R a t e m a t c h in g S c r a m b lin g M o d u la t io n ( Q P S K ) P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p r e s s io n *

# L 2 +

# N P B C H T B

# P B C H p a y lo a d
g e n e r a t io n

# C R C
a t t a c h m e n t T a il B i t in g C o n v o l u t i o n a l C o d i n g R a t e M a t c h i n g

# N P S S / N S S S /

# N R S S c r a m b lin g
S e q u e n c e M o d u la t io n G e n e r a t io n L a y e r M a p p in g M o d u la t io n P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
IQ c o m p r e s s io n * x lo w e r la y e r s p lit ) IQ

# N P R S / N W U S
S e q u e n c e G e n e r a t io n M o d u la t io n P r e c o d in g *

# R E m a p p in g
c o m p r e s s io n *

# 3 7.1.3.5.4 AAL_NPUSCH_FEC
Figure 7.1.3.5.4-1 highlights the set of accelerated functions that define the AAL_NPUSCH_FEC Profile. These include

# 5 • CRC Generation

# 6 • Turbo Decoding

# 7 • Rate Matching
The AAL_NPUSCH_FEC Profile is implemented as a look aside accelerator. T d

# N P U S C H

# C R C c h e c k
u r b o d e c o d i n g R a t e d e m a t c h in g D e s c r a m b lin g D e m o d u la t io n L a y e r D e m a p p in g

# O F D M
C h a n n e l e q u a liz a t io n C h a n n e l e s t im a t io n

# R E d e m a p p in g

# I Q
e c o m p r e s s io n *

# D M
d F R e Ro E E c S w it h P U r m a t 1 a n F o r m a t 2 C h a n n e l s t im a t io n d e m a p p in

# I Q
o m p r e s s io

# O - R A N F H

# S C H
d g n * ( 7 - 2 L x

# P U S C H F o r m a t 2

# U C I

# A C - N A C K d e t e c t io n
C h a n n e l d e c o d in g R a t e d e m a t c h in g D e s c r a m b lin g D e m o d u la t io n C h a n n e l e q u a liz a t io C h a n n e l e s t im a t io n

# R E d e m a p p in g

# I Q d e c o m p r e s s io n *
lo w e r la y e r s p lit ) n d N d e o R R e

# N P R A C H
P r e a m b le d e t e c t io n + la y e s t im a t io P e a k s e a r c h is e e s t im a t io

# I F F T
o o t s e q u e n c e c o r r e la t io n E d e m a p p in g

# I Q
c o m p r e s s io n n n *

## 7.2 O-CU AAL Profiles
The O-CU AAL profiles shall be part of further study for O-RAN WG6.


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG6.AAL-MUMIMO-BF-Calc-Profile-R004-v01.01.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG6.AAL-MIMO BF Calc Profile Technical Specification O-RAN Work Group 6"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms
Void R004-v01.01

## 3.2 Symbols
Void

## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations [given in [1] and the following] apply: AAL Acceleration Abstraction Layer AALI Acceleration Abstraction Layer interface AAL-LPU Acceleration Abstraction Layer Logical Processing Unit BF Beam Forming CNF Containerized Network Function HWA Hardware Accelator NF Network Function O-CU O-RAN Centralized Unit O-DU O-RAN Distributed Unit O-RU O-RAN Radio Unit OS Operating System

# 4 Overview

## 4.1 Purpose
The AAL General Aspects and Principles is described in [7] including a high-level architecture of the AAL and definition of the AAL profiles. This document details the AAL specification consisting of the description of the interface, information models, and requirements to implement an AALI for AAL_MUMIMO_PRECODER_WEIGHTS_CAL profile [7] The purpose of the AAL_MUMIMO_PRECODER_WEIGHTS_CAL profile is to support look-aside acceleration of beamforming (precoding) weight calculation by the Application. This profile compliments the High-PHY profiles specified in [8].

## 4.2 Document Structure
This present document is structured as follows: Chapter 4 presents the overview and main purpose of this specification. Chapter 5 presents the high level AALI configuration and management principles for the AAL_MU MIMO_PRECODER_WEIGHTS_CAL profile. Chapter 6 presents the Profile Overview for the profile, sample capabilities, inputs, and outputs as well as HWA parameters for the profile.

# 5 AAL Configuration and Management
The AALI configuration and management APIs are the APIs that an Application (O-DU) executes to configure and manage the AAL-LPU(s) that have been allocated to the Application by the O-Cloud. The high-level Configuration and Management Principles are presented in [7]. R004-v01.01

# 6 AAL Profile Specifications

## 6.1 Introduction
Void

## 6.2 Naming Coventions
Void

## 6.3 MUMIMO Precoder/BeamFormer Calculation Profile
Specification

### 6.3.1 Introduction
The AAL_MU MIMO_PRECODER_WEIGHTS_CALC is used to support look-aside acceleration of beamforming (precoding) weight calculation by the Application

### 6.3.2 Profile Operation
The Application provides HWA (aka AF in [8]) with all the information required to calculate precoding weights, as shown in method being block diagonalization. HWA returns to the Application a handle* (optional) to the precoding weights for the layers of the selected UEs together with precoding weights themselves. The precoding weights can be used by the Application to compute SINR per UE and per layer to assist with MCS selection. Application sends the precoding weights (optional) or handle (optional) to AF [8] via AAL_DOWNLINK_High-PHY Profile [8]. *Handle represents an index to “Beamforming (precoding) weights per PRG for the layers of the selected UEs” uniquely. This is an optional parameter. It is introduced to enable following example implementation option: After precoding weights calculation, HWA stores the precoding weights locally together with the associated handle. HWA returns to Application the handle to the precoding weights as well as the precoding weights for the layers of the selected UEs. This provides option to Application to send just the handle to AF [8] in AAL_DOWNLINK_High-PHY Profile [8]. In this case, AF can use the handle to retrieve precoding weights stored locally.
> NOTE: This is applicable only for the sencario in which same HWA is used for “high Phy function” and “precoding
weights calculation function”.

### 6.3.3 MUMIMO Precoder/BeamFormer Calculation Profile Capabilities and Configurations

#### 6.3.3.1 Summary of Capabilities
Void R004-v01.01

#### 6.3.3.2 Summary of Configurations
Void

### 6.3.4 AAL Profile Specific Interface
Parameters Summary HWA Role Application → HWA UEs Ordered list of UEs selected for scheduling Number of layers, per UE Number of layers scheduled per UE Channel Estimation Abstraction A representation of SRS-based Compute beamforming weights for the channel observations, as documented selected UEs and layers, e.g. based on in [7] (e.g. SVD, raw channel). Sent block diagonalization based precoding. for each PRG and for each UE scheduled in the PRG. HWA → Application B eamforming (precoding) weights Beamforming (precoding) weights Compute precoding weights for the per PRG for the layers of the selected selected UEs and layers, e.g. based on UEs. the representation of SRS-based channel observations Handle Index to Beamforming (precoding) weights per PRG for the layers of the (OPTIONAL) selected UEs. R004-v01.01


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG6.ASD-R004-v02.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG6.ASD-R004-v02.00 Technical Specification O-RAN Work Group 6"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in [2] and the following apply: Descriptor: set of attributes with values that contains information necessary to lifecycle manage an application or a resource, expressed in a template.
> NOTE: The term Descriptor is always qualified, explicitly or implicitly by the context, to refer to a specific type, like
Application Service Descriptor, External Connection Point Descriptor, among others.

## 3.2 Symbols
Void.

## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply: ASD Application Service Descriptor CNI Container Network Interface DC Data Center DPDK Data Plane Development Kit ExtCpd External Connection Point Descriptor GARP Gratuitous ARP (Address Resolution Protocol) GPU Graphics Processing Unit IPAM IP Address Management K8s Kubernetes LAG Link Aggregation Group LI Lawful Interception MAC Media Access Control NAD Network Attachment Definition NF Network Function NW Network OAM Operations, Administration and Management O-RAN Open Radio Access Network OVS Open vSwitch PCIe Peripheral Component Interconnect Express PF Physical Function SMO Service Management and Orchestration SR-IOV Single Root I/O Virtualization URI Uniform Resource Identifier UUID Universally Unique Identifier VLAN Virtual Local Area Network VF Virtual Function vNIC virtual Network Interface Card VPN Virtual Private Network VPP Vector Packet Processing

# 4 Objective
The present document delivers a specification of the information elements and attributes applicable to the ASD and a specification of a TOSCA data model of the ASD.

# 5 Conventions
The attributes of the ASD information elements are described in the tables provided in section 6.2. Each table has 5 columns, with the following significance:
- The "Attribute" column provides the attribute name.
- The "Qualifier" column indicates whether the support of the attribute is mandatory, optional or conditional from
the SMO perspective.
- The "Cardinality" column contains the minimum and maximum cardinality of this information element (e.g., 1, 0
… N, 1 … N). A cardinality range starting with 0 indicates that the attribute need not always be included and 1 indicates that the attribute needs to be always included.
- The "Type" column provides information on the type of the attribute values. It can be the name of an Information
Element. If a cell in the "Type" is marked as "Not specified", which indicates that the specification of the type is left to the data model.
- The "Description" provides a brief explanatory description, additional constraints, and examples.

# 6 Application Service Descriptor information elements

## 6.1 Overview
The Application Service Descriptor (ASD) contains data that describes an application and that is used by the SMO as input for the deployment of the application workload. The ASD is a complementary descriptor to the cloud-native deployment artifacts. Hence, it contains design-time information provided by the application vendor that is not described/available in the cloud native artifacts. Such complementary information in the ASD can include specific infrastructure capabilities requirements for the deployment of the application software workload, constraints on the Kernel type needed, additional networking requirements needed beyond primary connectivity described in the cloud native artifacts, any special CNI (Container Network Interfaces), etc [i.1]. The ASD can support an application workload deployment on OS container infrastructures. It is only applicable to O-RAN NF Deployments. and the ExecutableImageFile. ASD (DeploymentDescriptor) has ASD DeploymentItem (DeploymentItem) has Helm Chart (CloudNative DescriptorFile) Deployment related artifacts May have DockerImage (ExecutableImageFile)

## 6.2 Application Service Descriptor Information Element
For the O-RAN NF Deployments the Application Service Descriptor (ASD) is a main top level descriptor template which consists of the attributes described in Table 6.2-1 below. Attribute Qualifier Cardinality Type Description asdId M 1 String Identifier of this ASD information element. This attribute shall be globally unique. The format will be defined in the data model specification phase. asdVersion M 1 String Identifies the version of the ASD. See note 1. asdSchemaVersion M 1 String Specifies the version of the ASD’s schema, i.e. the version of this specification the ASD is compliant with. asdProvider M 1 String Provider of the application and of the ASD. asdApplicationName M 1 String Name to identify the application. Invariant for the application lifetime. asdApplicationSwVersion M 1 String Specifies the version of the software of the application. See note 2. asdApplicationInfoName M 0..1 String Human readable name for the application. Can change during the ASD lifetime. asdInfoDescription M 0..1 String Human readable description of the application. Can change during the ASD lifetime. asdExtCpd M 0..N ExtCpd Describes the externally exposed connection points of the application. enhancedClusterCapabilities M 0..1 EnhancedClus A list of expected capabilities of the target deployment terCapabilities cluster to aid placement of the application on a suitable cluster. deploymentItem M 1..N DeploymentIt Cloud native deployment artifacts associated with the em application. executableImageItem M 0..N ExecutableIm Contains data (e.g. name, location) related to an ageItem executable software image used to implement the application. asdInvariantId M 1 String Identifier of this descriptor in a version independent manner. This attribute is invariant across versions of ASD. It is in UUID format as specified in IETF RFC 4122 [3].
> NOTE 1: Version changes when a change is made to any one of the ASD attributes.
> NOTE 2: Version changes when software (software images or deployment items artifacts) of the ASD changes.
The asdVersion changes whenever anything in the ASD changes. That includes changes in the software images or in the deployment artifacts, as changes in those items are reflected in changes in ASD attributes. The asdApplicationSwVersion changes only when there are changes in the software of the application described by the ASD, i.e. changes in the software images or in the deployment artifacts. Thus, a change in the asdApplicationSwVersion implies a change in the asdVersion, but not vice versa. The asdSchemaVersion indicates the version of the standard the ASD is compliant with, e.g. 2.0.0. It allows the entity processing the ASD to correctly parse and interpret its values. It can be noted that a change in the asdSchemaVersion, e.g. to indicate compliance with a newer version of the standard, implies a change in the asdVersion, since it is a change in an ASD attribute. Changes in any of the above three attributes do not result in a change in the asdInvariantId as long as the ASD is describing the same application. It is expected that the asdInvariantId rarely changes. It is up to the application vendor to define how it changes.

## 6.3 Deployment Item (DeploymentItem) Information Element
The deploymentItem defined in O-RAN Operations and Maintenance Architecture [i.2] is realized by the DeploymentItem IE which has the DeploymentItem structure described in Table 6.3-1 below. The DeploymentItem IE describes the type of cloud native artifact, its order of deployment in case multiple cloud native artifacts are employed with the same ASD, and the list of parameters that can be parameterized in this cloud native deployment artifact at deployment time. Attribute Qualifier Cardinality Type Description deploymentItemId M 1 String The identifier of this deployment item artifactType M 1 String Specifies the artifact type. One of following values can be chosen: "helm_chart", "helmfile", "crd", "terraform". artifactId M 1 String Unique reference to a deployment item (cloud native deployment artifact). It can be a URI or file path. deploymentOrder M 0..1 Integer Specifies the deployment order of the deployment item. A lower value specifies that the deployment item belongs to an earlier deployment stage, i.e., needs to be installed prior to a deployment item with higher deploymentOrder values. If not specified, the deployment of the deployment itemt can be done in arbitrary order and decided by the SMO. deploymentParameter M 0..N String The list of parameters that can be overridden at deployment time (e.g., the list of parameters in the values.yaml which can be overridden at deployment time)

## 6.4 External connection point descriptor (ExtCpd) Information
Element The ExtCpd IE describes endpoints exposed by the application to enable orchestrators to string together or optimally place linked applications. Attribute Qualifier Cardinality Content Description id M 1 String The identifier of this ExtCpd. description M 1 String Describes the service exposed. virtualLinkRequirement M 1 String Refers in an abstract way to the network that the external connection point shall be exposed for (for example, OAM, EndUser, backhaul, LI, etc). The intent is to enable a network operator to identify which external connection point was designed to be connected to which VPN. networkInterfaceRealizati M 0..1 NetworkInte Details container implementation specific requirements onRequirements rfaceRealiza on the NetworkAttachmentDefinition. See note 1. tionRequire ments inputParamMappings M 0..1 ExtCpdPara Information on what parameters are required to be mMappings provided to the deployment tools for the external connection point. resourceMapping M 0..1 String Resource name for the cloud native resource manifest, as specified in the cloud native descriptor declaring the network interface (e.g., in the helm chart, for the: service, ingress or pod resource). Enables, together with knowledge on namespace, the SMO to lookup the runtime data related to the external connection point. See note 2.
> NOTE 1: Applies only for ExtCpd representing secondary network interfaces in a POD.
> NOTE 2: The format of the string is specific for each different orchestration templating technology used (Helm, Terraform, etc.).
Currently only the format for use with Helm charts is specified: helmchartname:resourcename.

## 6.5 NetworkInterfaceRealizationRequirements Information Element
The NetworkInterfaceRealizationRequirements IE describes details related to secondary networks that attach the OS containers to the logical or physical networks. Attribute Qualifier Cardinality Content Description trunkMode M 0..1 Boolean Specifies whether the interface is capable of carrying traffic for multiple VLANs. If not present or set to false: this interface shall connect to single network. If set to true: the network interface shall be a trunk interface (connects to multiple VLANs). ipam M 0..1 Enum Specifies which mode is used for the IP address assignment. Attribute Qualifier Cardinality Content Description Values:
- "infraProvided": the CNI specifies
how IPAM is done and assigns the IP address to the pod interface.
- "orchestrated": the IP address to
be assigned to the pod interface is expected from the orchestration function as input parameter to the deployment request.
- "userManaged": the IP address is
provided directly to the application via an external management entity. Default value is "infraProvided". interfaceType M 0..1 E num Specifies the type of network interface. Different types of interfaces are supported by different CNIs. Values:
- "kernel.netdev”: Linux kernel or
vSwitch based. It is supported by CNIsTM like: OVS, MACVLAN, IPVLAN, BRIDGE, PTP, etc.
- "direct.userspace": Provides direct
access to network PCIe, typically an SR-IOV VF, but could also be a PF. Uses application specific driver contained in the image. The device is bound to a driver by the cloud provider which supports user space control by the application (e.g. vfio_pci, igb_uio). It is supported by the following CNIsTM: SRIOV, HOST-DEVICE.
- "direct.kerneldriver": Similar to
direct.userspace but device is bound to a kernel driver by the cloud provider and can be consumed in the same way as a kernel netdev. It is supported by the following CNIsTM: SRIOV, HOST-DEVICE.
- "direct.bond": Based on the
BOND CNITM. Requires the existence of a mated pair of direct kernel network attachments prior to the creation of the bond. Thus, when this interface type is indicated, three attachments definitions to the secondary container cluster network are expected: two providing the direct kerneldriver functionality and one with the BOND CNITM Attribute Qualifier Cardinality Content Description
- "userspace": Based on the
userspace CNITM. requires infrastructure to support a DPDK- OVS or VPP based vSwitch. Default value is "kernel.netdev". interfaceOption M 0..N E num vNIC configurations the network interface is verified to work with. This attribute is applicable for interfaces of type "userspace". Values:
- "virtio"
- "memif"
interfaceRedundancy M 0..1 Enum Method required from the infrastructure to provide redundancy for the interface. Values: "infraProvided", "left", "right", "activeActiveBond", "activePassiveBond", "activePassivel3"
- "infraProvided": The application
sees one vNIC, but the infrastructure provides redundant access to the network via both switch planes. For interface of type kernel.netdev the redundancy is provided by the vSwitch or Linux bonding. For interfaces of type direct, it requires that the physical NIC is connected to both switch planes (a.k.a. smartNIC). Thus, it imposes hardware requirements on the infrastructure. For interface of type userspace redundancy handled by a DPDK- OVS or VPP vSwitch
- "left" and "right": indicates
a vNIC connected non- redundantly to the network via one specific (left or right) switchplane. Redundancy is implemented by having two external connection points, indicating different values (left/right) in the descriptor. For the the following values, the infrastructure provides for a single external connection point a mated vNIC pair in the Pod, one connecting to the network via left switchplane and the other connecting to the network via the right switchplane, and with the application using them together as a redundant network interface using a particular redundancy method that Attribute Qualifier Cardinality Content Description need to be accomodated in the node infrastructure:
- "activeActiveBond": Requires a
static multi-chassis LAG in active- active mode from the infrastructure. Typically corresponds to bonding mode-2 “balance-xor”
- "activePassiveBond": The
interfaces are bonded in active- passive mode in the application with move of bond MAC address. No specific requirements on DC fabric. Typically corresponds to bonding mode-1 “active-backup”
- "activePassivel3": Application
moves its IP address by attaching it to one of the two MACs by use of GARP messages.

## 6.6 ExtCpdParamMappings Information Element
The ExtCpdParamMappings IE describes required information on what parameters to be provided to the deployment tools for the ExtCpd. Attribute Qualifier Cardinality Content Description loadbalancerIP M 0..1 String When present, this attribute specifies the name of the deployment artifact input parameter through which the SMO can configure the loadbalancerIP parameter of the K8s service or ingress controller that the ExtCpd represents. The param name and provided IP address value will be passed to the deployment tool when deploying the deployment artifacts. See note 2. externalIPs M 0..1 String When present, this attribute specifies the name of the deployment artifact input parameter through which the SMO can configure the externalIPs parameter of the K8s service or ingress controller, or the pod network interface annotation, that the ExtCpd represents. The param name and provided IP address(es) value will be passed to the deployment tool when deploying the deployment artifacts. See note 2. nadName M 0..N String These attributes specify, for an ExtCpd representing a secondary network interface, the name(s) of the deployment artifact input parameter(s) through which the SMO can provide the names of the network attachment definitions (NADs) the SMO has created as base for the network interface the ExtCpd represents. The param name(s) and provided NAD name value(s) will be passed to the deployment tool when deploying the deployment artifacts. It is expected that the NADs themselves have been created prior to the deployment of the deployment artifacts. See notes 1, 2, and 3. nadNamespace M 0..1 String Specifies, for an ExtCpd representing a secondary network interface, the name of the deployment artifact input parameter through which the SMO can provide the namespace where the NADs are located. The param name and provided namespace value will be passed to the deployment tool when Attribute Qualifier Cardinality Content Description deploying the deployment artifacts. Attribute may be omitted if the namespace is the same as the application namespace. See note 2.
> NOTE 1: When the ExtCpd represent a network redundant/mated pair of sriov interfaces, there are references to 2 or 3 related NADs
needed to be passed, while for other interface types only one NAD reference is needed to be passed.
> NOTE 2: The format of the string content is specific for each different orchestration templating technology used (Helm, Teraform, etc.).
Currently only a format for use with Helm charts is specified: "<helmchartname>:[<subchartname>.] 0 ... N[<parentparamname>.] 0 … N<paramname>”. Whether the optional parts of the format are present depends on how the parameter is declared in the helm chart. An example is: "chartName:subChart1.subChart2.subChart3.Parent1.Parent2.Parent3.parameter".
> NOTE 3: A direct attached (passthrough) network interface, such as a sriov interface, attaches to a network via only one of the two
switch planes in the infrastructure. When using a direct attached network interface one therefore commonly in a pod uses a mated pair of sriov network attachments, where each interface attaches to the same network but via a different switchplane. The application uses the mated pair of network interfaces as a single logical “swith-path-redundant” network interface – and this is represented by a single ExtCpd. Also, there is a case where a third “bond” attachment interface is used in the pod, bonding the two direct interfaces so that the application does not need to handle the redundancy issues – application just uses the bond interface. In this case all three attachments are together making up a logical “switch-path-redundant” network interface represented by a single ExtCpd. When three NADs are used in the ExtCpd the NAD implementing the bond attachment interface is provided through the parameter indicated in the third place in the nadName attribute.

## 6.7 EnhancedClusterCapabilities Information Element
The EnhancedClusterCapabilities IE describes information which is used to aid placement of the application service on a suitable cluster. Attribute Qualifier Cardinality Content Description minKernelVersion M 1 String Describes the minimal required Kernel version, e.g., 4.15.0. Coded as displayed by linux command uname –r requiredKernelModule M 0..N String Required kernel modules are coded as listed by linux lsmod command, e.g., ip6_tables, cryptd, nf_nat etc. conflictingKernelModule M 0..N String Kernel modules, which shall not be present in the target environment. The kernel modules are coded as listed by linux lsmod command, e.g., ip6_tables, cryptd, nf_nat etc. Example: Linux kernel SCTP module, which may conflict with use of proprietary user space SCTP stack provided by the application. requiredCustomResource M 0..N Structure List of the required custom resource types in the target environment, (inlined) identifying each by the "kind" and "apiVersion" field in the K8S resource manifests and in the application. The list shall include those custom resource types which are not delivered with the application. Example: requiredCustomResources: -{kind: "Redis", apiVersion: "kubedb.com/v1alpha1"} >kind M 1 String Kind of the custom resource Attribute Qualifier Cardinality Content Description >apiVersion M 0..1 String apiVersion of the custom resource. If not indicated, any apiVersion of the custom resource is valid. clusterLabel M 0..N String This attribute indicates the required O-Cloud Node Cluster capabilities. These can indicate special infrastructure capabilities (e.g., NW acceleration, GPU compute, etc.). The intent of these O-Cloud Node Cluster capabilities is to serve as a set of values that can support the SMO in application placement decisions. See note 1. clusterLabel follow the Kubernetes label key-value-nomenclature [1] . This attribute should use the standardized values for the O-RAN O- Cloud Node Cluster capabilities, the existing values for node features [i.3], and any new capabilities identified in O-RAN specifications. The attribute supports also extensions for non standardized values. See note 2. requiredPlugin M 0..N Structure A list of the names and versions of the required K8s plugin (e.g., (inlined) multus v3.8) >requiredPluginName M 1 String The names of the required K8s plugin (e.g., multus) >requiredPluginVersion M 0..1 String The version of the required plugin (e.g., 3.8). If not indicated, any version of the plugin is valid.
> NOTE 1: The SMO uses the set of standardized capabilities to identify O-Cloud Node cluster capabilities required in the
DeploymentDescriptors and to match them to the capabilities available in the O-Cloud.
> NOTE 2: References to standandardized values for the O-RAN O-Cloud Node Cluster capabilities and/or new capabilities identified in O-
RAN specifications will be added in future versions of the present document.

## 6.8 Executable Image Item (ExecutableImageItem) Information
Element The ExecutableImageItem IE contains metadata related to an executable software image and the reference to its location. Attribute Qualifier Cardinality Type Description swImageName M 1 String Name of the software image swImageVersion M 1 String Version of the software image swImageLocation M 1 String URI (a file path, external URL, etc.) referring to the location where the image file is located.

# 7 TOSCA data model of the ASD

## 7.1 General concept of using TOSCA to model the ASD
The ASD shall be written as a TOSCA YAML service template using the grammar specified in TOSCA Simple Profile in YAML v1.3 [4]. However, only a limited set of the TOSCA modelling entities and grammar features specified in [4] are supported in an O- RAN compliant ASD. Clause 7.2 lists entities and features excluded from the ASD. Clauses 7.3, 7.4 and 7.5 specifies O-RAN data types, artifact types and node types to be used in an ASD. These clauses also list the keynames that shall, may or shall not be included in the vendor specific node template and artifact definitions. Definition of additional, vendor specific, types, is not supported.


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG6.CADS-v08.01 (2).md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG6.CADS-v08.01 Cloud Architecture and Deployment Scenarios"
---

# 108 Figure 9: Example of O-Cloud Resources mapped to O-Cloud Nodes and O-Cloud Networks in an O-Cloud Node

# 130 Figure 30: Scenario B – MR-DC (inter-RAT NR and E-UTRA) regardless of the Core Network type (either EPC or Table of Tables

# 154 This Technical Report has been produced by the O-RAN Alliance.

# 155 The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within O-RAN and may change following formal

# 156 O-RAN approval. Should O-RAN modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released by O-RAN with an 157 identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as follows:

# 158 Version x.y.z
159 where: 160 x the first digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical enhancements, corrections, updates, 161 etc. (the initial approved document will have x=01). 162 y the second digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been incorporated in the document. 163 z the third digit included only in working versions of the document indicating incremental changes during the 164 editing process.

## 1.1 Context; Relationship to Other O-RAN Work

# 166 This document introduces and examines different scenarios and use cases for O-RAN deployments of Network

# 167 Functionality into Cloud Platforms, O-RAN Cloudified NFs and O-RAN Physical NFs. Deployment scenarios are
168 associated with meeting customer and service requirements, while considering technological constraints and the need to 169 create cost-effective solutions. It will also reference management considerations covered in more depth elsewhere.

# 170 The following O-RAN documents will be referenced (see Section 5.6):

# 171 • OAM architecture specification [8]

# 172 • OAM interface specification (O1) [9]

# 173 • O-RAN Architecture Description [10]

# 175 Figure 1.

# 177 Figure 1: Relationship of this Document to Scenario Documents and O-RAN Management Documents

# 178 This document also draws on some other work from other O-RAN working groups, as well as sources from other industry
179 bodies.

## 1.2 Objectives

# 181 The O-RAN Alliance seeks to improve RAN flexibility and deployment velocity, while at the same time reducing the 182 capital and operating costs through the adoption of cloud architectures. The structure of the Orchestration and

# 183 Cloudification work is shown graphically below. This document focuses on the Cloudification deployment aspects as 184 indicated.
M a n a g e m e n t d o c u m e n t s

# O A M
A rch ite c tu re

# O A M In te rfa c e
S p e c ific a tio n S c e n a rio R e fe re n c e D e s ig n C lo a n u d A r c h it e c d D e p lo y m S c e n a r io s S c e n a rio R e fe re n c e D e s ig n te un r et … S c e n a rio R e fe re n c e D e s ig n A r c h ite c t u r e d o c u m e n t s

# O -R A N
A rc h ite c tu re D e sc rip tio n

# 185 Editor’s note: O-RU cloudification and O-RU AAL are future study items.

# 187 Figure 2: Major Components Related to the Orchestration and Cloudification Effort

# 189 CU-CP and O-CU-UP), O-DU, and O-RU, and the deployment of software components on commodity server
190 architectures supplemented with programmable accelerators where necessary.

# 191 Key characteristics of cloud architectures which we will reference in this document are:
192 a) Decoupling of hardware from software. This aims to improve flexibility and choice for operators by decoupling 193 selection and deployment of hardware infrastructure from software selection, 194 b) Standardization of hardware specifications across software implementations, to simplify physical deployment 195 and maintenance. This aims to promote the availability of a multitude of software implementation choices for a 196 given hardware configuration. 197 c) Sharing of hardware. This aims to promote the availability of a multitude of hardware implementation choices 198 for a given software implementation. 199 d) Flexible instantiation and lifecycle management through orchestration automation. This aims to reduce 200 deployment and ongoing maintenance costs by promoting simplification and automation throughout the 201 hardware and software lifecycle through common chassis specifications and standardized orchestration 202 interfaces.

# 203 This document will define various deployment scenarios that can be supported by the O-RAN specifications and are of 204 either current or relatively near-term interest. Each scenario is identified by a specific grouping of functionality (Tiered

# 205 Clouds) at different key locations (Cell Site, Edge Cloud, Regional Cloud and Central Cloud, which will be defined
206 shortly), and an identification of whether functionality at a given location is provided by an O-RAN Physical NF based 207 solution where software and hardware are tightly integrated and sharing a single identity, or by an O-RAN cloud 208 infrastructure architecture (O-Cloud) that meets the above requirements.

# 210 Standalone (NSA) and 5GC architectures. This implies that cloud/orchestration aspects of NSA (E-UTRA) are also
211 supported. However, this version primarily addresses 5G SA deployments.

# 212 This technical report examines the constraints that drive a specific solution, and discuss the hierarchical properties of each
213 solution, including a rough scale of the size of each Tiered Cloud and a sense of the number of sub clouds expected to be 214 served by a higher tiered cloud. Figure 3 shows as example of how multiple Cell Sites feed into a smaller number of

# 215 Edge Clouds, and how in turn multiple Edge Clouds feed into a Regional Cloud that can feed into a Central Cloud. For 216 a given scenario, the Logical Functions are distributed in a certain way among each type of Tiered Cloud, and the

# 217 “cardinality” of the different functions will be discussed.

# 218 The present document describes that the Cloud Infrastructure is deployed as managed O-Cloud(s). Tiered Cloud is a 219 conceptual construct of grouped functions in an O-RAN. Their physical manifestation is realized in O-Clouds on Cloud

# 220 Sites. Cell Sites connect into the Cloud Site O-Cloud Resources through the Fronthaul network. Cloud Sites and Cell

# 221 Sites could be collocated at the same site location or separately on their own individual site locations. The document also
BB

# S / W

# H / W
la c k b

# B U
o x O r c h e s t r a t CmaP io n F le x ib le O rc h . Inventory, Discovery, Registration Policy, M etrics o m m o n L C M e c h a n is m s c ro s s V N F &

# N F s
C lo u d ific a t io n

# O - C U

# A A L
C lo u d sta c k ( C C e n tra liz e d C U /D U (C -R A N ) o n ta O in e C
- D U

# A A L
rs/V M

# U /D U
s, O S s p lit , C lo u d

# O - R U

# A A L
M g m t. )

# A S IC
D is trib u te

# C U /D U
(D -R A N ) d A Soc Ma MmCd ll R A N m o d u le s u p p o rt 1 0 ,0 0 0 s f d is trib u te d lo u d s ite s u ltitu d e o f s ilic o n c c e le ra to rs u ltitu d e o f d e p lo y o d e ls : C lo u d R A N

# U -D U s p lit,

# R A N o n w h ite b o x
m e n , o r D t C 222 describes how the O-Cloud Resources are used in O-Cloud Node Clusters that execute the Network Function

# 223 Deployments. All of these are orchestrated from the Service Management and Orchestration framework (SMO).

# 224 This has implications on the processing power needed in each type of cloud, as well as implications on the environmental
225 requirements. This document will also discuss considerations of hardware chassis and components that are reasonable in 226 each scenario, and the implications of managing such a cloud.

# 230 Figure 3: Example of Tiered Clouds/mapped to O-Clouds and Sites

# 231 Additional major areas for this document are listed below:

# 232 • Mapping of logical functions to physical elements and locations, and implications of that mapping.

# 233 • High-level assessment of critical performance requirements, and how that influences architecture.

# 234 • Processor and accelerator options (e.g., x86, FPGA, GPU). In order to determine whether a Network Function
235 is a candidate for openness, there needs to be the possibility to have multiple suppliers of software for given 236 hardware, and multiple sources of required chip/accelerators.

# 237 • The Hardware Abstraction Layer, aka “Acceleration Abstraction Layer” needs to be addressed in light of 238 various hardware options that could be used.

# 239 • Cloud infrastructure makeup. This includes considerations such as:

# 240 • Deployments are allowed to use VMs, Containers in VMs, or just Containers.

# 242 Yocto Linux-based distributions, or selected proprietary OSs.

# 243 • Management of a cloudified RAN introduces some new management considerations because the mapping
244 between Network Functionality and cloud platforms can be done in multiple ways, depending on the scenario 245 that is chosen. Thus, management of aspects that are related to platform aspects rather than RAN functional 246 aspects need to be designed with flexibility in mind from the start. For example, logging of physical functions, 247 scale out actions, and survivability considerations are affected.

# 248 • These management considerations are introduced in this document, but management documents will
249 address the solutions.

# 250 • The transport layer will be discussed, but only to the extent that it affects the architecture and design of the 251 network. For example, the chosen L1 technology may affect the performance of transport. As another example,
252 the use of a Fronthaul Gateway/Fronthaul Multiplexer will affect economics as well as the placement options of 253 certain Network Functions. And of course, the existence of L2 switches in a cloud platform deployment will be 254 required for efficient use of server resources.

# 255 Additional areas could be considered in the future.

# 257 The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this text, constitute provisions of this report.
258 [1] 3GPP TS 38.470, NG-RAN; F1 general aspects and principles. 259 [2] 3GPP TR 21.905, Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications. 260 [3] eCPRI Interface Specification V1.2, Common Public Radio Interface: eCPRI Interface Specification. 261 [4] eCPRI Transport Network V1.2, Requirements Specification, Common Public Radio Interface:

# 262 Requirements for the eCPRI Transport Network.
263 [5] IEEE Std 802.1CM-2018, Time-Sensitive Networking for Fronthaul. 264 [6] ITU-T Technical Report, GSTR-TN5G - Transport network support of IMT-2020/5G. 265 [7] O-RAN WG4, Control, User and Synchronization Plane Specification, Technical Specification. See 266 https://www.o-ran.org/specifications. 267 [8] O-RAN WG1, Operations and Maintenance Architecture, Technical Specification. See https://www.o- 268 ran.org/specifications. 269 [9] O-RAN WG1, Operations and Maintenance Interface Specification, Technical Specification. See 270 https://www.o-ran.org/specifications. 271 [10] O-RAN WG1, O-RAN Architecture Description, Technical Specification. See https://www.o- 272 ran.org/specifications. 273 [11] 3GPP TS 28.622, Telecommunication management; Generic Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration

# 274 Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS).
275 [12] O-RAN WG6, Cloud Platform Reference Design for Deployment Scenario B, Technical Specification. See 276 https://www.o-ran.org/specifications. 277 [13] O-RAN WG7 OMAC HAR 0-v01.00 O-RAN White Box Hardware Working Group Outdoor Macrocell

# 278 Hardware Architecture and Requirements (FR1) Specification.
279 [14] O-RAN WG1, Use Cases Detailed Specifications – v05.00, Technical Specification. See https://www.o- 280 ran.org/specifications. 281 [15] O-RAN.WG7.DSC.0-v04.00 O-RAN White Box Hardware Working Group Deployment Scenarios and Base

# 282 Station Classes.

# 3 Definitions and Abbreviations

## 3.1 Definitions

# 285 For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [2] and the following apply.

# 286 A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP

# 287 TR 21.905 [2].

# 288 Cell Site This refers to the location of Radio Units (RUs); e.g., placed on same structure as the Radio

# 289 Unit or at the base. The Cell Site in general will support multiple sectors and hence multiple

# 290 O-RUs.

# 291 Cloud Infrastructure (CInf) This refers to a set of computation, storage and networking equipment with related software
292 that offers physical and/or virtual cloud resources and services into the O-Cloud as an under- 293 cloud from the Cloud Infrastructure provider organization that could be operator internal or 294 external. The Cloud Infrastructure resources are not addressed by the present document and 295 not specified as part of O2ims and O2dms.

# 296 CInf Management This is a vendor or operator software operated by the Cloud Infrastructure provider
297 organization. It handles discovery, health and maintenance of the Cloud Infrastructure 298 included equipment and its offered physical and logical services that can be distributed over 299 multiple Cloud Sites. The Cloud Infrastructure Management are not addressed by the present 300 document and not specified as part of O2ims and O2dms.

# 301 Central Cloud This is the highest location tier, that supports virtualized RAN and other functions, and 302 provides the centralization of functionality that has the least strict network latency
303 requirements.

# 305 Clouds and potentially other non-O-Cloud resources.

# 306 CIDR Classless Inter-Domain Routing (also known as Subnet Mask)

# 307 Edge Cloud This is a location that supports virtualized RAN functions for multiple Cell Sites and provides
308 centralization of functions for those sites and associated economies of scale. An Edge Cloud 309 might serve a large physical area or a relatively small one close to its cell sites, depending on 310 the Operator’s use case. However, the sites served by the Edge Cloud must be near enough to 311 the O-RUs to meet the network latency requirements of the O-DU functions.

# 312 F1 Interface The open interface between O-CU and O-DU in this document is the same as that defined by 313 the CU and DU split in 3GPP TS 38.473. It consists of an F1-u part and an F1-c part.

# 314 Managed Element [11]Refer to the 3GPP TS 28.622 [11] .

# 315 Managed Function Refer to the 3GPP TS 28.622 [11]

# 316 Network Function The O-RAN Network Functions (O-RAN NFs) are defined in the O-RAN Architecture

# 317 Description [10].

# 318 Regional Cloud This is a location that supports virtualized RAN functions for many Cell Sites in multiple Edge

# 319 Clouds and provides high centralization of functionality. The sites served by the Regional

# 321 CU and near-RT RIC.

# 322 O-Cloud This refers to a collection of O-Cloud Resource Pools at one or more location and the software
323 to manage Nodes and Deployments hosted on them. An O-Cloud will include functionality to 324 support both Deployment-plane and Management services. The O-Cloud provides a single 325 logical reference point for all O-Cloud Resource Pools within the O-Cloud boundary.

# 326 O-Cloud Capability One or more features provided by the O-Cloud Platform and exposed to consumers for 327 performing certain tasks.

# 328 NOTE 1: Consumers include software deployments, such as NF Deployments, and management services (e.g. NFO
329 and FOCOM) interacting with the O-Cloud.

# 330 NOTE 2: An O-Cloud Capability can be associated with certain capacity.

# 331 EXAMPLE: Examples of O-Cloud Capabilities are computing processing, acceleration, storage, etc.

# 332 O-RAN Physical NF A RAN NF software deployed on tightly integrated hardware sharing a single Managed

# 333 Element identity.

# 334 Cloudified NF A RAN Network Function software that is deployed in the O-Cloud via one or more NF

# 335 Deployments.

# 336 NF Deployment A software deployment on O-Cloud resources that realizes, all or part of, a Cloudified NF.

# 337 PE Provider Edge

# 338 Tiered Cloud The definition of Tiered Clouds is a grouping of O-RAN related functionality called Cell Site,

# 339 Edge Cloud, Regional Cloud and Central Cloud where each tier has increasing latency and 340 increasing maximum area covered per tier.

# 341 NOTE: The Tiered Cloud and its different locations are conceptual and intended to enable discussions around
342 functional placement and its requirements in O-RAN. It is not an exact definition, and it doesn’t have a 343 direct mapping to the realization of the functionality.

## 3.2 Abbreviations

# 346 For the purposes of this document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [2] and the following apply.

# 348 3GPP TR 21.905 [2].

# 349 3GPP Third Generation Partnership Project

# 350 5G Fifth-Generation Mobile Communications

# 351 AAL Acceleration Abstraction Layer

# 352 API Application Programming Interface

# 353 ASIC Application-Specific Integrated Circuit

# 354 BBU BaseBand Unit

# 355 BS Base Station

# 356 CI Cloud Infrastructure

# 357 CoMP Co-Ordinated Multi-Point transmission/reception

# 358 CNF Cloud-Native Network Function

# 359 CNI Container Networking Interface

# 360 CPU Central Processing Unit

# 361 CR Cell Radius

# 362 CU Centralized Unit as defined by 3GPP

# 363 DFT Discrete Fourier Transform

# 364 DL Downlink

# 365 DPDK Data Plan Development Kit

# 366 DMS Deployment Management Services

# 367 DU Distributed Unit as defined by 3GPP
368 eMBB enhanced Mobile BroadBand

# 369 EPC Evolved Packet Core

# 370 E-UTRA Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access

# 371 FCAPS Fault Configuration Accounting Performance Security

# 372 FEC Forward Error Correction

# 373 FFT Fast Fourier Transform

# 374 FH Fronthaul

# 375 FHGW Fronthaul Gateway

# 376 FHM Fronthaul Multiplexer

# 377 FPGA Field Programmable Gate Array

# 378 GNSS Global Navigation Satellite System

# 379 GPP General Purpose Processor

# 380 GPS Global Positioning System

# 381 GPU Graphics Processing Unit

# 382 HARQ Hybrid Automatic Repeat ReQuest

# 383 HW Hardware

# 384 IEEE Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers

# 385 IM Information Modelling, or Information Model

# 386 IMS Infrastructure Management Services

# 387 IRQ Interrupt ReQuest

# 388 ISA Instruction Set Architecture

# 389 ISD Inter-Site Distance

# 390 ITU International Telecommunications Union

# 391 KPI Key Performance Indicator

# 392 LCM Life Cycle Management

# 393 LDPC Low-Density Parity-Check

# 394 LLS Lower Layer Split

# 395 LTE Long Term Evolution

# 396 LVM Logic Volume Manager

# 397 MEC Mobile Edge Computing
398 mMTC massive Machine Type Communications

# 399 MNO Mobile Network Operator

# 400 NF Network Function

# 401 NFD Node Feature Discovery

# 402 NFVI Network Function Virtualization Infrastructure

# 403 NIC Network Interface Card

# 404 NMS Network Management System

# 405 NR New Radio

# 406 NSA Non-Standalone

# 407 NTP Network Time Protocol

# 408 NUMA Non-Uniform Memory Access

# 409 NVMe Non-Volatile Memory Express

# 410 O-Cloud O-RAN Cloud Platform

# 411 OCP Open Compute Project

# 412 O-CU O-RAN Central Unit

# 413 O-CU-CP O-CU Control Plane

# 414 O-CU-UP O-CU User Plane

# 415 O-DU O-RAN Distributed Unit (uses Lower-level Split)

# 416 O-RU O-RAN Radio Unit

# 417 OTII Open Telecom IT Infrastructure

# 418 OWD One-Way Delay

# 419 PCI Peripheral Component Interconnect

# 420 PNF Physical Network Function

# 421 PoE Power over Ethernet

# 422 PoP Point of Presence

# 423 PRTC Primary Reference Time Clock

# 424 PTP Precision Time Protocol

# 425 QoS Quality of Service

# 426 RAN Radio Access Network

# 427 RAT Radio Access Technology

# 428 RIC RAN Intelligent Controller

# 429 RT Real Time

# 430 RTT Round Trip Time

# 431 RU Radio Unit

# 432 SA Standalone

# 433 SFC Service Function Chaining

# 434 SMO Service Management and Orchestration

# 435 SMP Symmetric MultiProcessing

# 436 SoC System on Chip

# 437 SR-IOV Single Root Input/ Output Virtualization

# 438 SW Software

# 439 TCO Total Cost of Ownership

# 440 TNE Transport Network Element

# 441 TR Technical Report

# 442 TRP Transmission Reception Point

# 443 TS Technical Specification

# 444 TSC (T-TSC) Telecom Slave Clock

# 445 Tx Transmitter

# 446 UE User Equipment

# 447 UL Uplink

# 448 UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System

# 449 UP User Plane

# 450 UPF User Plane Function

# 451 URLLC Ultra-Reliable Low-Latency Communications
452 vCPU virtual CPU

# 453 VIM Virtualized Infrastructure Manager

# 454 VM Virtual Machine

# 455 VNF Virtualized Network Function
456 vO-CU Virtualized O-RAN Central Unit 457 vO-CU-CP Virtualized O-CU Control Plane 458 vO-CU-UP Virtualized O-CU User Plane 459 vO-DU Virtualized O-RAN Distributed Unit

# 4 Overall Architecture

# 461 This section addresses the overall architecture in terms of the Network Functions and infrastructure (O-RAN Physical

# 462 NFs, servers, and clouds) that are in scope. Figure 4 provides a high-level view of the O-RAN architecture as depicted in 463 [10].

# 466 Figure 4: High Level Architecture of O-RAN

## 4.1 O-RAN Functions Definitions

# 468 This section reviews key O-RAN functions definitions in O-RAN.

# 469 • The O-DU/ O-RU split is defined as using Option 7-2x. See [7].

# 470 • The O-CU/ O-DU split is defined as using the CU/ DU split F1 as defined in 3GPP TS 38.470 [1].

# 471 This document assumes these two splits.

# 472 Figure 5 shows the logical architecture of O-RAN (as depicted in [10]) with O-Cloud platform at the bottom, where any
473 given O-RAN function could be supported by O-Cloud, depending on the deployment scenario. For example, the figure 474 here illustrates a case where the O-RU is implemented as an O-RAN Physical NF, and the other functions within the 475 dashed line are supported by O-Cloud.

# 477 Figure 5: Logical Architecture of O-RAN

## 4.2 Degree of Openness

# 479 In theory, every architecture component could be open in every sense imaginable, but in practice it is likely that different
480 components will have varying degrees of openness due to economic and other implementation considerations. Some 481 factors are significantly affected by the deployment scenario; for example, what might be viable in an indoor deployment 482 might not be viable in an outdoor deployment.

# 483 Increasing degrees of openness for an O-RAN Physical Network Function or O-RAN Cloudified Network Function(s)
484 are:

# 485 A. Interfaces among Network Functions are open, e.g., E2, F1, and Open Fronthaul are used. Therefore, Network

# 486 Functions in different O-RAN Physical NFs/clouds from different vendors can interconnect.

# 487 B. In addition to having open connections as described above, the chassis of servers in a cloud are open and can
488 accept blades/sleds from multiple vendors. However, the blades/sleds have RAN software that is not decoupled 489 from the hardware.

# 490 C. In addition to having open connections and an open chassis, a specific blade/sled uses software that is decoupled
491 from the hardware. In this scenario, the software could be from one supplier, the blade/sled could be from another, 492 and the chassis could be from another.

# 494 Cloud and is subject to the cloudification discussion and requirements.

# 495 In this document, the degree of openness for each O-RAN Physical NF/cloud can vary by scenario. The question of which

# 496 Network Functions should be split vs. combined, and the degree of openness in each one, is addressed in the discussion
497 of scenarios.

## 4.3 Decoupling of Hardware and Software

# 499 Editor’s note: O-RU AAL is a future study item.

# 500 There are three layers that we must consider when we discuss decoupling of hardware and software:

# 501 • The hardware layer, shown at the bottom in Figure 6. (In the case of a VM deployment, this maps basically to 502 the ETSI NFVI hardware sub-layer.)

# 503 • A middle layer that includes Cloud Stack functions as well as Acceleration Abstraction Layer functions. (In the 504 case of a VM deployment, these map to the ETSI NFVI virtualization sub-layer + VIM.)

# O -e N B
p e n ro n th a u l -P la n e a n a g e m e n t a N o n -R N e a In te llig

# O F H C U
n d O r c h e s tr a tio n F r e a l T im e R IC

# O -C U -C P

# F 1 -c

# O -D

# S -P la n e

# O -R

# O -C lo
a U U u m d e w o r

# O F H
O M -C -P

# U -U P

# F 1 -u
la n e

# X 2 -c

# N G -u
X n -c

# N G -c
X X n -u -u

# 505 • A top layer that supports the virtual RAN functions.

# 506 Each layer can come from a different supplier. The first aspect of decoupling has to do with ensuring that a Cloud Stack
507 can work on multiple suppliers’ hardware, i.e., it does not require vendor-specific hardware.

# 508 The second aspect of decoupling has to do with ensuring that a Cloud Platform can support RAN virtualized functions
509 from multiple RAN software suppliers. If this is possible, then we say that the Cloud Platform (which includes the 510 hardware that it runs on) is an O-RAN Cloud Platform, or “O-Cloud”. See Figure 6 below.

# 512 Figure 6: Decoupling, and Illustration of the O-Cloud Concept
The O-Cloud

# 514 The general definition of the O-Cloud Platform includes the following characteristics:

# 515 - The O-Cloud Platform is a set of hardware and software components that provide O-Cloud Capabilities and 516 services to execute RAN network functions.

# 517 - The O-Cloud Platform hardware includes compute, networking and storage components, and can also
518 include various acceleration technologies required by the RAN network functions to meet their performance 519 objectives.

# 520 - The O-Cloud Platform software exposes open and well-defined APIs that enable the orchestration and 521 management of the NF Deployment’s life cycle.

# 522 - The O-Cloud Platform software exposes open and well-defined APIs that enable the orchestration and 523 management of the O-Cloud.

# 524 - The O-Cloud Platform software is decoupled from the O-Cloud Platform hardware (i.e., it can typically be
525 sourced from different vendors).

# 526 The management aspects of the O-Cloud Platform are discussed in 5.6. The scope of the present document includes listing
527 specific requirements of the O-Cloud Platform to support orchestration and execution of the various O-RAN Network

# 528 Functions.

# 529 An example of an O-Cloud Platform is an OpenStack and/or a Kubernetes Cluster deployment on a set of COTS servers

# 530 (including FPGA and GPU cards), interconnected by a spine/leaf networking fabric.

# 531 There is an important interplay between specific virtualized RAN functions and the hardware that is needed to meet
532 performance requirements and to support the functionality economically. Therefore, a hardware/ cloud platform 533 combination that can support, say, a vO-CU function might not be appropriate to adequately support a vO-DU function.

# 534 When RAN functions are combined in different ways in each specific deployment scenario, these aspects must be
535 considered.

# 536 Such infrastructure requirements of the Cloudified NFs and/or their constituent NF Deployments are among the Service

# 537 Management and Orchestration (SMO) considerations for the homing decision. The SMO is responsible to make the 538 homing decision, which results in the SMO selection of the appropriate O-Cloud Node Cluster(s) matching the
539 requested capabilities for the NF Deployment(s) and makes the determination of the specific Deployment Management

# 540 Service (DMS) that the SMO deems adequate for an NF Deployment.

# O - C lo u d
O C
- C U

# A A L
lo u d s t a c k ( C o n t a O in e
- D

# A A r s /
L V U M s , O S , C lo u d O M A
- R

# A A g m

# S IC
U L t . ) H a r d w a r e

# 541 The O-Cloud DMS(s) is responsible to decide on the placement of the workloads for an NF Deployment, internally
542 inside the O-Cloud Node Cluster(s) based on the SMO’s homing decision and using other NF Deployment requirements 543 that it receives through the O2dms.

# 544 Below is a high-level conceptual example of how different accelerators, along with their associated O-Cloud Capabilities,
545 can be required for different RAN functions. Although the present document does not specify any particular hardware 546 requirement or O-Cloud Capability, some specific examples can be devised. For example, any RAN function that involves 547 real-time movement of user traffic might require the O-Cloud Platform to control for delay and jitter, which can in turn 548 require features such as real-time OSs, avoidance of frequent interrupts, CPU pinning, etc.

# 550 Figure 7: Relationship between RAN Functions and Demands on Cloud Infrastructure and Hardware

# 551 Finally, it is to be highlighted, that any cloud that has features required for a given function (e.g., for O-DU) can also
552 support functions that do not require such features. For example, an O-Cloud that can support O-DU can also support 553 functions such as O-CU-CP. Key O-Cloud Concepts

# 557 Figure 8 illustrates key components of an O-Cloud and its management.

# 562 Figure 8: Key Components Involved in/with an O-Cloud

# 563 Key terms in this figure are defined below:

# 564 • The SMO is defined in [10].

# 565 • An O-Cloud refers to a collection of O-Cloud Resources, Resource Pools and O-Cloud Services at one or more

# 567 Deployments hosted on them. An O-Cloud will include functionality to support both Deployment-plane (aka.
568 user-plane) and Management services. The O-Cloud provides a single logical reference point for all O-Cloud

# 569 Resources, Resource Pools and Services within the O-Cloud boundary, i.e. for the distributed O-Cloud.

# 570 • An O-Cloud Site refers to a set of O-Cloud Resources at a Cloud Site with a geographical location. The size of 571 the O-Cloud Site can be from a single to thousands of O-Cloud Resources. O-Cloud Resources are generally
572 interconnected through one or more O-Cloud Site Network Fabrics that are the demarcation for direct O-Cloud

# 573 Site internal L2 switching. Multiple O-Cloud Sites can be interconnected into a distributed O-Cloud which
574 generally would require bridging, routing or stitching on any other networking layer in between each O-Cloud

# 575 Site and its respective external transport network attachment point.
576 o NOTE: Very small O-Cloud Sites with just a few O-Cloud Resources can be directly connected to 577 networks outside of the O-Cloud Site, supporting e.g. fronthaul and backhaul networks, without an O-

# 578 Cloud Site Network Fabric.

# 580 O-Cloud platform to the SMO. The services are categorized into two logical groups: (i) Infrastructure

# 581 Management Services (IMS), which include the subset of O2 functions that are responsible for deploying and 582 managing cloud infrastructure. (ii) Deployment Management Services (DMS), which include the subset of O2
583 functions that are responsible for managing the lifecycle of virtualized/containerized deployments on the cloud 584 infrastructure. The O2 interfaces associated with the O-Cloud Infrastructure and Deployment Management

# 585 Services will be specified in the upcoming O2 specification. Any definitions of SMO functional elements needed
586 to consume these services shall be described in OAM architecture. Further details of these key concepts and how 587 they relate to each other can be found in the O-RAN O2 Interface General Aspects and Principles (GAnP).

# 588 • O-Cloud IMS related concepts and views of the Cloud Infrastructure
589 o An O-Cloud Resource represent a unit of defined capabilities and characteristics within an O-Cloud

# 590 Cloud Site that can be provisioned and used for the O-Cloud Deployment Plane. There are some
591 different sorts of O-Cloud Resources e.g. Compute, HW-Accelerator, Storage, Gateway and Site

# 592 Network Fabric. Note: Exact classes of O-Cloud Resources are FFS and needs alignment to existing
593 other specifications e.g. GAnP and IMS Interface Specification. 594 o An O-Cloud Resource Pool is a collection of O-Cloud Resources with homogeneous capabilities and 595 characteristics as defined by the operator within an O-Cloud Site. 596 o The Unspecified O-Cloud Resource Pool is the collection of O-Cloud Resources that are exposed in 597 the O-Cloud IMS inventory without a classification or being placed in any O-Cloud Resource Pool.

# 598 Note: Exact classes of O-Cloud Resources are FFS.
599 o An O-Cloud Site Network Fabric is an O-Cloud Resource that connects the O-Cloud Resources that 600 can connect to other O-Cloud Resources in an O-Cloud Site. 601 o An O-Cloud Site Network is a provisioned Network Resource with its configured defined capabilities 602 and characteristics out of an O-Cloud Site Network Fabric.

# 603 • O-Cloud DMS related concepts and views of the O-Cloud Resources that are created/updated through IMS
604 provisioning 605 o O-Cloud Deployment Plane is a logical construct representing the O-Cloud Nodes, O-Cloud Networks 606 and O-Cloud Node Clusters which are used to create NF Deployments. The O-Cloud Deployment Plane 607 is created using IMS provisioned O-Cloud Resources from O-Cloud Resource Pools and O-Cloud Site

# 608 Network Fabrics.
609 o NF Deployment, see term definition in 3.1. 610 o An O-Cloud Node is a network connected (physical and/or logical) computer or a network connection 611 terminating function. An O-Cloud Node can be provisioned by the IMS into the O-Cloud Node Cluster.

# 612 O-Cloud Nodes are typically comprised of physical and/or logical CPUs, Memories, Storages, NICs,

# 613 HW Accelerators, etc. and a loaded Operating System with relevant Cluster SW. The O-Cloud Node
614 software discovers, abstracts and exposes the IMS-assigned O-Cloud Resources or partitions of them 615 as O-Cloud Deployment Plane constructs. Note that an O-Cloud Node could also exist as a stand-alone

# 616 O-Cloud Node.
617 o An O-Cloud Node Cluster is a collection of O-Cloud Nodes that work in concert with each other, 618 through a set of interconnecting O-Cloud Node Cluster Site Networks. The O-Cloud Nodes Operating

# 619 System and Cluster SW discover its capabilities, characteristics and initial parameters with additional
620 configuration done through the IMS. The cluster concepts will be further specified in the GAnP 621 document. 622 o An O-Cloud Node Cluster Site Network is an O-Cloud Site Network assigned to an O-Cloud Node

# 623 Cluster.
624 o An O-Cloud Node Group is a set of O-Cloud Nodes within an O-Cloud Node Cluster that are to be 625 treated as equal by some aspects e.g., the O-Cloud Node Cluster scheduler. These O-Cloud Nodes are 626 interconnected through the set of O-Cloud Node Cluster Site Networks and an optional set of O-Cloud

# 627 Node Group Site Networks. These O-Cloud Nodes would commonly have similar capabilities and 628 characteristics exposed from their set of used computational, storage and networking Resources.
629 o An O-Cloud Node Group Site Network is an O-Cloud Site Network assigned to an O-Cloud Node

# 630 Group in a O-Cloud Node Cluster.
631 o An O-Cloud Distributed Node Cluster Network is a logical network that spans across multiple O-

# 632 Cloud Sites. It is realized by connecting multiple O-Cloud Node Cluster Site Networks in O-Cloud

# 633 Sites through transport network(s).

# 635 Figure 9 illustrates an example of how O-Cloud Resources and parts of O-Cloud Resources are mapped into O-Cloud

# 636 Nodes and O-Cloud Node Clusters which is done through the O-Cloud IMS Provisioning services. The depicted O-Cloud

# 637 Node Groups and their related O-Cloud Node Group Site Networks are dashed to indicate that this grouping level is 638 optional.

# 643 Figure 9: Example of O-Cloud Resources mapped to O-Cloud Nodes and O-Cloud Networks in an O-Cloud

# 644 Node Cluster

# 645 An O-Cloud Resource Pool comprises one or more O-Cloud Resources, each with one or more network connections and 646 optionally, one or more internal HW accelerators and storage devices. The O-Cloud Site Network Fabric Resources may
647 provide connectivity between the pooled O-Cloud Resources of O-Cloud Compute, O-Cloud HW-Accelerator, O-Cloud

# 649 O-Cloud Gateways may bridge or stitch O-Cloud Site Networks across multiple O-Cloud Resource Pools in different

# 650 Cloud Sites inside a distributed O-Cloud. The O-Cloud Site Network Fabrics are managed by the Infrastructure

# 651 Management Services (IMS) described earlier. Interconnection of the different O-Cloud Sites in a distributed O-Cloud is 652 typically done through an externally provisioned and managed WAN Transport but could also be done through Cloud

# 653 Infrastructure internally managed WAN Transport. Figure 10 shows an example of the architecture and usage of one or 654 more O-Cloud Compute Resource Pools, comprising multiple servers interconnected over an O-Cloud Site Network

# 655 Fabric.

# 661 Figure 10: Edge O-Cloud Site deployment example with an O-Cloud Site Network Fabric (Hub)

# 662 An O-Cloud Resource Pool may also comprise one or a set of single servers without any associated O-Cloud Site

# 663 Network Fabric, e.g., infrastructure deployed at a cell site. In such a scenario where an O-Cloud Site Network Fabric is 664 not present, the O-Cloud Compute Resources may be directly connected to the O-RU through an O-RAN compliant
665 front haul connection and to an externally provisioned backhaul or midhaul Transport. Figure 11 shows an example of 666 the architecture and usage of an O-Cloud Compute Resource Pool in such a configuration without the O-Cloud Site

# 667 Network Fabric.

# 670 Figure 11: Edge O-Cloud Site deployment example without an O-Cloud Site Network Fabric (Single servers)

# 671 The requirements on the O-Cloud Site Network Fabric such as clock/sync requirements, latency and jitter
672 recommendations shall be described in a future version of this document. We note that the architecture of a regional cloud 673 may be similar to that of an edge cloud but may not include some requirements such as time source. O-Cloud Platform Management Functionalities

# 675 An O-Cloud Platform can provide a degree of automation and autonomous handling of its functionalities (including DMS
676 and IMS). In such cases, the O-Cloud Platform can detect, trigger and handle autonomously and without any SMO 677 intervention, tasks with a certain level of complexity. An example is an O-Cloud Platform based on Kubernetes® (as 678 specified by the CNCF®), where this O-Cloud Platform is capable of placing the workloads (for NF Deployments) on 679 suitable O-Cloud Nodes based on deployment artifacts and orchestration policies, as well as detect, trigger and execute

# 680 O-Cloud Node self-repair, or to execute autonomously a horizontal auto-scaling of running workloads for the NF

# 681 Deployments based on the scaling data made available in the deployment artifacts.

# 683 Examples of the main tasks that the DMS handles based on the information received over O2dms, includes (non- 684 exhaustive list):

# 685 - The placement of the workloads for O-RAN NF Deployments, internally within the O-Cloud Node Cluster(s);

# 686 - The LCM of the respective workloads, including:
687 o The allocation of resources inside the O-Cloud Node Clusters that the workloads will run on, 688 o the configuration of the allocated resources as needed for the deployment (e.g., IP addresses, connection 689 points, etc). 690 o The execution, either autonomously/automatically or on-demand, of any necessary workload LCM 691 operations within the allocated O-Cloud Node Cluster, such as scaling out/in, or self-healing. 692 o The move of NF Deployment workloads in different O-Cloud Nodes within the same O-Cloud Node

# 693 Cluster when errors in the allocated resources fail to meet the expected service levels previously
694 indicated over O2dms, 695 o The termination of the deployment of NF Deployments when requested by SMO over O2dms,

# 696 - The updates to the O-Cloud inventory with latest status information about O-Cloud resources used for NF

# 697 Deployment workloads that it lifecycle manages.

# 699 Example of main tasks (non-exhaustive list) that the IMS handles based on the information received over O2ims:

# 700 - Provisioning requests for the O-Cloud Node Clusters, with an allocation of resources and their configuration.

# 701 The main task is to keep track of available resources, their capabilities, their capacities and to allocate them into
702 the SMO requested Node Clusters with appropriate configuration that makes the Node Clusters usable for the

# 703 NF Deployments.
704 o The Node Cluster and Resource capabilities and capacities, along with the resulting mapping of Node

# 705 Clusters to Resources, are exposed over the O2ims inventory service.

# 706 - Fault management of the O-Cloud Node Clusters and O-Cloud Resources that will limit the O-Cloud total
707 capabilities and capacities. Alarms are available for SMO consumption over the O2ims interface with relevant 708 information about the faults.

# 709 - Performance management and reporting of the O-Cloud Node Clusters and O-Cloud Resources. The 710 measurements are available for SMO consumption over the O2ims interface with relevant information about the
711 measurements.

# 712 - O-Cloud inventory reporting, exposed via O2ims inventory services, of the O-Cloud Sites, Deployment

# 713 Management Services, Node Clusters and Resources including their capabilities, capacities, allocations, and 714 availabilities that enables the SMO to understand how requested allocations have been met by the O-Cloud and
715 what the O-Cloud available capabilities and capacities are. O-Cloud life cycle management, where the O-Cloud 716 infrastructure management Services, Sites, Deployment Manager Services and Resources are registered, 717 structured and configured to have agreed settings and API versions for O2ims communication with SMO.

# 718 - Performing maintenance operations in the O-Cloud Platform, either autonomously/automatically or on demand,
719 e.g., switching the operational mode of O-Cloud Node(s) into the maintenance mode when an O-Cloud Node 720 within an O-Cloud Node Cluster requires maintenance or is scheduled for decommissioning.

## 4.4 O-Cloud Multi-Site Networking

# 724 Clouds or O-Cloud sites. These sites or O-Clouds are generally interconnected via Transport Networks.

# 726 For these disaggregated NFs to communicate with each other, end-to-end connectivity needs to be established, which
727 includes networking within O-Cloud site and as well Transport Network as shown in the figure below. O-Cloud Site O-Cloud Site NF(S) O-CLOUD TNE Transport TNE O-CLOUD NF(S) GW GW Network Site Fabric O-Cloud Site Transport Network O-Cloud Site Network Network

# 728 Figure 4.4-1: Logical view of multi-site connectivity through Transport Network

# 729 O-Cloud Site Network connects the NFs to the O-Cloud Gateway. If an O-Cloud site has a site fabric, this connectivity
730 is achieved through the fabric. This connectivity is local within O-Cloud site. However, the connectivity between the O-

# 731 Cloud Gateway and Transport Network Element (TNE) (a.k.a. Transport Endpoint) needs to be established to achieve
732 end-to-end connectivity. O-Cloud and Transport Network Shared Connectivity Information

# 734 O-Cloud and Transport Networks generally belong to different administrative domains and are orchestrated
735 independently; hence a mechanism is needed to orchestrate the connectivity between the O-Cloud Gateway and the

# 736 Transport Network Element.

# 738 The subnet between the O-Cloud gateway and the TNE needs to be configured with appropriate Identifiers (such as VLAN

# 739 ID, subnet CIDR, Getaway IP). These identifiers must match on both sides of the administrative domains to achieve
740 successful configuration of the subnet. Hence, an appropriate mechanism is needed so that these identifiers can be 741 exchanged to allow each side independently to configure their side of the subnet.

# 743 Depending upon the deployment scenarios, the operators may make the choice as to which domain will manage the 744 selection and allocation of these identifiers. For instance, if O-Cloud is the manager for the allocation of these identifiers,
745 it will first configure the O-Cloud gateway port connecting to the TNE. These identifiers are then passed to the Transport

# 746 Network domain to configure the TNE port that connects to the O-Cloud gateway.

# 747 Conversely, if Transport Network Domain is the manager for allocation of these identifiers, the TNE is configured first
748 and then the identifiers are passed to the O-Cloud.

# 5 Deployment Scenarios: Common Considerations

# 750 In any implementation of logical network functionality, decisions need to be made regarding which logical functions are
751 mapped to which Cloud Platforms, and therefore which functions are to be co-located with other logical functions. In 752 this document we do not prescribe one specific implementation, but we do understand that in order to establish agreements 753 and requirements, the manner in which the Network Functions are mapped to the same or different Cloud Platforms must 754 be considered.

# 755 We refer to each specific mapping as a “deployment scenario”. In this section, we examine the deployment scenarios that
756 are receiving the most consideration. Then we will select the one or ones that should be the focus of initial scenario 757 reference design efforts.

## 5.1 Mapping Logical Functionality to Physical Implementations

# 759 There are many aspects that need to be considered when deciding to implement logical functions in distinct O-Clouds.

# 760 Some aspects have to do with fundamental technical constraints and economic considerations, while others have to do
761 with the nature of the services that are being offered. Technical Constraints that Affect Hardware Implementations

# 763 Below are some factors that will affect the cost of implementations and can drive a carrier to require separation of or 764 combining of different logical functions.

# 765 • Environment: Equipment may be deployed in indoor controlled environments (e.g., Central Offices), semi- 766 controlled environments (e.g., cabinets with fans and heaters), and exposed environments (e.g., Radio Units on
767 a tower). In general, the less controlled the environment, the more difficult and expensive the equipment will 768 be. The required temperature range is a key design factor and can drive higher power requirements.

# 769 • Dimensions: The physical dimensions can also drive deployment constraints – e.g., the need to fit into a tight
770 cabinet, or to be placed safely on a tower or pole.

# 771 • Transport technology: The transport technology used for Fronthaul, Midhaul, and Backhaul is often fiber,
772 which has an extremely low and acceptable loss rate. However, there are options other than fiber, in particular 773 wireless/ microwave, where the potential for data loss must be considered. This will be discussed further in the 774 next section.

# 775 • Acceleration Hardware: The need for acceleration hardware can be driven by the need to meet basic
776 performance requirements but can also be tied to some of the above considerations. For example, a hardware 777 acceleration chip (COTS or proprietary) can result in lower power use, less generated heat, and smaller physical 778 dimensions than if acceleration is not used. On the other hand, some types of hardware acceleration chips might 779 not be “hardened” (i.e., they might only operate properly in a restricted environment) and could require a more 780 controlled environment such as in a central office.

# 781 The acceleration hardware most often referred to includes:

# 782 • Field Programmable Gate Arrays (FPGAs)

# 783 • Graphical Processing Units (GPUs)

# 784 • System on Chip (SoC)

# 785 • Standardized Hardware: Use of standardized hardware designs and standardized form factors can have
786 advantages such as helping to reduce operations complexity, e.g., when an operator makes periodic technology 787 upgrades of selected components. An example would be to use an Open Compute Project (OCP) or Open

# 788 Telecom IT Infrastructure (OTII) –based design.
Service Requirements that Affect Implementation Design

# 790 RANs can serve a wide range of services and customer requirements, and each market can drive some unique
791 requirements. Some examples are below.

# 792 • Indoor or outdoor deployment: Indoor deployments (e.g., in a public venue like a sports stadium, train station,
793 shopping mall, etc.) often enjoy a controlled environment for all elements, including the Radio Units. This can 794 improve the economics of some indoor deployment scenarios. The distance between Network Functions tends 795 to be much lower, and the devices that support O-RU functionality may be much easier and cheaper to install 796 and maintain. This can affect the density of certain deployments, and the frequency that certain scenarios are 797 deployed.

# 798 • Bands supported, and Macro cell vs. Small cell: The choice of bands (e.g., Sub-6 GHz vs. mmWave) might
799 be driven by whether the target customers are mobile vs. fixed, and whether a clear line of sight to the customer 800 is available or is needed. The bands to be supported will of course affect O-RU design. In addition, because 801 mmWave carriers can support much higher channel width (e.g., 400 MHz vs. 20 MHz), mmWave deployments 802 can require a great deal more O-DU and O-CU processing power. And of course, the operations costs of 803 deploying Macro cells vs. Small cells differ in other ways.

# 804 • Performance requirements of the Application / Network Slice: Ultimately, user applications drive
805 performance requirements, and RANs are expected to support a very wide range of applications. For example, 806 the delay requirements to support a Connected Car application using Ultra Reliable Low Latency

# 807 Communications (URLLC) will be more demanding than the delay requirements for other types of applications.

# 808 In our discussion of 5G, we can start by considering requirements separately for URLLC, enhanced Mobile

# 809 Broadband (eMBB), and massive Machine Type Communications (mMTC).

# 810 The consideration of performance requirements is a primary one and is the subject of Section 5.2.
Rationalization of Centralizing O-DU Functionality

# 812 Almost all Scenarios to be discussed in this document involve a degree of centralization of O-DU. In this section it is 813 assumed that O-DU resources for a set of O-RUs are centralized at the same location.

# 814 Editor’s Note: While most Scenarios also centralize O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, and near-RT RIC in one form or 815 another, the benefits of centralizing them are not discussed in this section.

# 816 Managing O-DU in equipment at individual cell sites (via on-site BBUs today) has multiple challenges, including:

# 817 • If changes are needed at a site (e.g., adding radio carriers), then adding equipment is a coarse-grained activity –
818 i.e., one cannot generally just add “another 1/5 of a box”, if that is all that is needed. Adding the minimum 819 increment of additional capacity might result in poor utilization and thereby prevent expansion at that site.

# 820 • Cell sites are in many separate locations, and each requires establishment and maintenance of an acceptable
821 environment for the equipment. In turn this requires separate visits for any physical operations.

# 822 • Micro sites tend to have much lower average utilization than macro sites, but each can experience considerable
823 peaks.

# 824 • “Planned obsolescence” occurs, due to ongoing evolution of smartphone capabilities and throughput
825 improvements, as well as introduction of new features and services. It is common practice today to upgrade

# 826 (“forklift replace”) BBUs every 36-60 months.

# 827 These factors motivate the centralization of resources where possible. For the O-DU function, we can think of two types
828 of centralization: simple centralization and pooled centralization.

# 829 If the equipment uses O-DU centralization in an Edge Cloud, at any given hour an O-RU will be using a single specific

# 830 O-DU resource that is assigned to it (e.g., via Kubernetes). On a broad time scale, traffic from any cell site can be
831 rehomed, without any physical work, to use other/additional resources that are available at that Edge Cloud location. This 832 would likely be done infrequently, e.g., about as often as cell sites are expanded.

# 833 Centralization can have some additional benefits, such as only having to maintain a single large controlled environment
834 for many cell sites rather than creating and maintaining many distributed locations that might be less controlled (e.g., 835 outside cabinets or huts). Capacity can be added at the central site and assigned to cell sites as needed. Note that simple 836 centralization still assigns each O-RU to a single O-DU resource1, as shown below, and that traffic from one O-RU is not 837 split into subsets that could be assigned to different O-DUs. Also note that a Fronthaul Gateway (FHGW)/Fronthaul

# 838 Multiplexer (FHM) may exist between the cell site and the centralized resources, not only to improve economics but also
839 to enable traffic re-routing when desired.

# 841 Figure 12: Simple Centralization of O-DU Resources
In this figure, each O-DU block can be thought of as a unit of server resources that includes a hardware accelerator, a GPP, memory and any other associated hardware.

# 842 By comparison, with pooled centralization, traffic from an O-RU (or subsets of the O-RU’s traffic) can be assigned more
843 dynamically to any of several shared O-DU resources. So, if one cell site is mostly idle and another experiences high 844 traffic demand, the traffic can be routed to the appropriate O-DU resources in the shared pool. The total resources of this 845 shared pool can be smaller than resources of distributed locations, because the peak of the sum of the traffic will be 846 markedly lower than the sum of the individual cell site traffic peaks.

# 848 Figure 13: Pooling of Centralized O-DU Resources

# 849 We note that being able to share/ O-DU resources somewhat dynamically is expected to be a solvable problem, although
850 we understand that it is by no means a trivial problem. There are management considerations, among others. There may 851 be incremental steps toward true shared pooling, where rehoming of O-RUs to different O-DUs can be performed more 852 dynamically, based on traffic conditions.

# 853 It is noted that O-DU centralization benefits the densest networks where several cell sites are within the O-RU to O-DU
854 latency limits. Sparsely populated areas most probably will be addressed by vO-CU centralization only.

# 855 Figure 14 shows the results of an analysis of a simulated greenfield deployment as an attempt to visualize the relative
856 merit of simple centralization of O-DU (“oDU”) vs. pooled centralization of O-DU (“poDU”) vs. legacy DU (“BBU”), 857 plotted against the realizable Cell Site pool size.

# 859 Figure 14: Comparison of Merit of Centralization Options vs. Number of Cell Sites in a Pool

# 860 An often-used measure is related to the power required to support a given number of carrier MHz. The lower the power
861 used per carrier, the more efficient is the implementation. In Figure 14, the values of each curve are normalized to the 862 metric of Watts/MHz for distributed legacy BBUs, normalized to equal 1. Please note that in this diagram, a lower value 863 is better. The following assumptions apply to the figure:

# 864 • A legacy BBU processes X MHz (for carriers) and consumes Y watts. For example, a specific BBU might
865 process 1600 MHz and consume 160 watts.

# 866 • N legacy BBUs will process N x X MHz and consume N x Y watts and have a merit figure of 1, per
867 normalization. If a given site requires less than X MHz, it will still be necessary to deploy an X MHz BBU. For 868 example, we may need only 480 MHz but still deploy a 1600 MHz BBU.

# 869 • Simple Centralization (the “oDU” line): In this case, active TRPs are statically mapped to specific VMs and 870 vO-DU tiles2. Fewer vO-DU tiles are required to support the same number of TRPs, because MHz per site is
871 not a constant.

# 872 • Independent of resources to support active user traffic, a fixed power level is required to power Ethernet

# 873 “frontplane” switches and hardware to support management and orchestration processes.

# 874 • In a pool, processing capacity will be added over time as required.

# 875 • Due to mobility traffic behavior, tiles will not be fully utilized, although centralization of resources will
876 improve utilization when compared with a legacy BBU approach.

# 877 • Centralization with more dynamic pooling (the “poDU” line): In addition to active load balancing, individual
878 traffic flows (which can last from a few hundreds of msecs to several seconds) will be routed to the least used 879 tile, further optimizing (reducing) vO-DU tile requirements.

# 880 • As in the simple centralization approach above, there is a fixed power level required for hardware that
881 supports switching, management and orchestration processes.

# 882 As a final note, any form of centralization requires efficient transport between the O-RU and the O-DU resources. When

# 883 O-RU functionality is distributed over a relatively large area (e.g., not concentrated in a single large building), the 884 existence of a Fronthaul Gateway/Fronthaul Multiplexer is a key enabler.

## 5.2 Performance Aspects

# 886 Performance requirements drive architectural and design considerations. Performance can include attributes such as 887 delay, packet loss, transmission loss, and delay variation (aka “jitter”).

# 888 Editor’s Note: While all aspects are of interest, delay has the largest impact on network design and will
889 be the focus of this version. Future versions can address other performance aspects if desired and is

# 890 FFS.
User Plane Delay

# 892 This section discusses the framework for discussing delay of user-plane packets3, and also general delay numbers that it
893 can be agreed that apply across all scenarios. Details relevant to a specific Scenario will be discussed in each Scenario’s 894 subsection, as applicable. The purpose of these high-level targets is to act as a baseline for allocating the total latency 895 budget to subsystems that are on the path of each constraint, as required for system engineering and dimensioning 896 calculations, and to assess the impact on the function placement within the specific network site tiers.

# 897 The goal is to establish reasonable maximum delay targets, as well as to identify and document the major infrastructure
898 as well as O-RAN NF-specific delay contributing components. For each service or element, minimum delay should be 899 considered to be zero. The implication of this is that any of the elements can be moved towards the Cell Site (e.g., in a 900 fully distributed Cloud RAN configuration, all of O-CU-UP, O-DU and O-RU would be distributed to Cell Site).

# 901 In real network deployments, the expectation is that, depending on the operator-specific implementation constraints such
902 as location and fiber availability, deployment area density, etc., deployments result in anything between the fully 903 distributed and maximally centralized configuration. Even on one operator’s network, it is common that there are many 904 different sizes of Edge Cloud instances, and combinations of Centralized and Distributed architectures in same network 905 are also common (e.g. network operator may choose to centralize the deployments on dense Metro areas to the extent 906 possible and distribute the configurations on suburban/rural areas with larger cell sizes / cell density that do not translate 907 to pooling benefits from more centralized architecture). However, the maximum centralization within the constraints of

# A “vO-DU tile” refers to a chip or System on Chip (SoC) that provides hardware acceleration for math-intensive functionality such as that required
for Digital Signal Processing. With the Option 7.2x split, acceleration of Forward Error Correction (FEC) functionality is required (FEC is optional for e.g. low band.), and other functionality could be considered for acceleration if desired. Delay of control plane or OAM traffic is not considered in this section. 908 latencies that can be tolerable is useful for establishing the basis for dimensioning of the maximum sizes, especially for 909 the Edge and Regional Cloud PoPs. Figure 15 below illustrates the relationship among some key delay parameters.

# 911 Figure 15: Major User Plane Latency Components, by 5G Service Slice and Function Placement

# 912 Please note the following:

# 913 • NOTE 1: If the T2 or/and T3 transport network(s) is/are Packet Transport Network(s), then time allocation for 914 the transport network elements processing and queuing delays will require some portion of maximum latency
915 allocation and will require reduction of the maximum area accordingly.

# 916 • NOTE 2: Site Internal / fabric networks are not shown for clarity but need some latency allocation (effectively
917 extensions or part of transport delays; per PoP tier designations T , T , T and T ). E1 E2 E3 C

# 918 • NOTE 3: To maximize the potential for resource pooling benefits, minimize network function redundancy cost,
919 and minimize the amount of hardware / power in progressively more distributed sites (towards UEs), target 920 design should attempt to maximize the distances and therefore latencies available for transport networks within 921 the service- and RAN-specific time constraints, especially for T . T1

# 922 • NOTE 4: UPF, like EC/MEC, is outside of the scope of O-RAN, so UPF shown as a “black box” to illustrate
923 where it needs to be placed in context of specific services to be able to take advantage of the RAN service- 924 specific latency improvements.

# 925 Figure 15 represents User Equipment locations on the right, and network tiers towards the left, with increasing latency
926 and increasing maximum area covered per tier towards the left. These Mobile Network Operator’s (MNO’s) Edge tiers 927 are nominated as Cell Site, Edge Cloud, and Regional Cloud, with one additional tier nominated as Central Cloud in the 928 figure.

# 929 The summary of the associated latency constraints as well as major latency contributing components as depicted in Figure

# 930 15 above is given in Table 1, below.

# 931 Table 1: Service Delay Constraints and Major Delay Contributors
RAN Service-Specific User Plane Delay Constraints Max. OWD Max. RTT Identifier Brief Description (ms) (ms) URLLC Ultra-Reliable Low Latency Communications (3GPP) 0.5 1 URLLC Ultra-Reliable Low Latency Communications (ITU) 1 2 eMBB enhanced Mobile Broadband 4 8 mMTC massive Machine Type Communications 15 30 Transport Specific Delay Components

# T Transport propagation delay over air interface
AIR

# T Cell Site Switch/Router delay
E1

# T Transport delay between Cell Site and Edge Cloud 0.1 0.2
T1

# T Edge Cloud Site Fabric delay
E2

# T Transport delay between Edge and Regional Cloud 1 2
T2

# T Regional Cloud Site Fabric delay
E3

# T Transport delay between Regional and Central Cloud 10 20
T3

# T Central Cloud Site Fabric delay
C Network Function Specific Delay Components

# T Delay Through the UE SW and HW stack
UE

# T Delay Through the O-RU User Plane
RU

# T Delay Through the O-DU User Plane
DU

# T Delay Through the O-CU User Plane
CU-UP

# 933 The transport network delays are specified as maximums, and link speeds are considered to be symmetric for all
934 components with exception of the air interface (T ). For the S-Plane services utilizing PTP protocol, it is a requirement AIR 935 that the link lengths, link speeds and forward-reverse path routing for PTP are all symmetric.

# 936 Radios (O-RUs) are always located in the Cell Site tier, while O-DU can be located “up to” Edge Cloud tier. It is possible
937 to move any of the user plane NF instances closer towards the cell site, as implicitly they would be inside the target 938 maximum delay, but it is not necessarily possible to move them further away from the Cell Sites while remaining within 939 the RAN internal and/or RAN service-specific timing constraints. A common expected deployment case is one where O-

# 940 DU instances are moved towards or even to the Cell Site and O-RUs (e.g. in Distributed Cloud-RAN configurations), or 941 in situations where the Edge Cloud needs to be located closer to the Cell Site due to fiber and/or location availability, or
942 other constraints. While this is expected to work well from the delay constraints perspective, the centralization and 943 pooling-related benefits will be potentially reduced or even eliminated in the context of such deployment scenarios.

# 944 The maximum transport network latency between the site hosting O-DU(s) and sites hosting associated O-RU(s) is 945 primarily determined by the RAN internal processes time constraints (such as HARQ loop, scheduling, etc., time-sensitive
946 operations). For the purposes of this document, we use 100us latency, which is commonly used as a target maximum 947 latency for this transport segment in related industry specifications for user-plane, specifically “High100” on E-CPRI 948 transport requirements [4] section 4.1.1, as well as “Fronthaul” latency requirement in ITU technical report GSTR-TN5G 949 [6], section 7-2, and IEEE Std 802.1CM-2018 [5], section 6.3.3.1. Based on the 5us/km fiber propagation delay, this 950 implies that in a 2D Manhattan tessellation model, which is a common simple topology model for dense urban area fiber 951 routing, the maximum area that can be covered from a single Edge Cloud tier site hosting O-DUs is up to a 400km2 area 952 of Cell Sites and associated RUs. Based on the radio inter-site distances, number of bands and other radio network 953 dimensioning specific parameters, this can be used to estimate the maximum number of Cell Sites and cell sectors that 954 can be covered from single Edge Cloud tier location, as well as maximum number of UEs in this coverage area.

# 955 The maximum transport network latencies towards the entities located at higher tiers are constrained by the lower of F1
956 interface latency (max 10 ms as per GSTR-TN5G [6], section 7.2), or alternatively service-specific latency constraints, 957 for the edge-located services that are positioned to take advantage of improved latencies. For eMBB, UE-CU latency 958 target is 4ms one-way delay, while for the URLLC it is 0.5ms as per 3GPP (or 1ms as per ITU requirements). The 959 placement of the O-CU-UP as well as associated UPF, to be able to provide URLLC services would have to be at most at 960 the Edge Cloud tier to satisfy the service latency constraint. For the eMBB services with 4ms OWD target, it is possible 961 to locate O-CU-UP and UPF on next higher latency location tier, i.e. Regional Cloud tier. Note that while not shown in 962 the picture, Edge compute / Multi-Access Edge Compute (MEC) services for a given RAN service type are expected to 963 be collocated with the associated UPF function to take advantage of the associated service latency reduction potential.

# 964 For the services that do not have specific low-latency targets, the associated O-CU-UP and UPF can be located on higher
965 tier, similar to deployments in typical LTE network designs. This is designated as Central Cloud tier in the example in

# 966 Figure 15 above. For eMBB services, if there are no local service instances in the Edge or Regional clouds to take
967 advantage of the 4ms OWD enabled by eMBB service definition, but the associated services are provided from either

# 968 Central Clouds, transport networks or from other Edge Cloud / RAN instances (in case of user-to-user traffic), the 969 associated non-constrained (i.e. over 4ms from subscriber) eMBB O-CU-UP and UPF instances can be located in Central

# 970 Cloud sites without perceivable impact to the service user, as in such cases the transport and/or service-specific latencies
971 are dominant latency components.

# 972 The intent of this section is not to micromanage the latency budget, but to rather establish a reasonable baseline for 973 dimensioning purposes, particularly to provide basic assessment to enable sizing of the cloud tiers within the context of
974 the service-specific constraints and transport allocations. As such, we get the following “allowances” for the aggregate 975 unspecified elements:

# 976 • URLLC : 0.5ms - 0.1ms (T ) = 0.4ms ≥ T + T + T + T + 2(T ) + T + T
3GPP T1 UE AIR E1 RU E2 DU CU-UP

# 977 • URLLC : 1ms - 0.1ms (T ) = 0.9ms ≥ T + T + T + T + 2(T ) + T + T
ITU T1 UE AIR E1 RU E2 DU CU-UP

# 978 • eMBB: 4ms - 0.1ms (T ) - 1ms (T ) = 2.9ms ≥ T + T + T + T + 2(T ) + T + T + T
T1 T2 UE AIR E1 RU E2 DU E3 CU-UP

# 979 • mMTC : 15ms - 0.1ms (T ) - 1ms (T ) - 10ms (T ) = 3.9ms ≥ T + T + T + T + 2(T ) + T + T +
T1 T2 T3 UE AIR E1 RU E2 DU E3

# 980 T + T
CU-UP C

# 982 If required, we may provide more specific allocations in later versions of the document, as we gain more implementation
983 experience and associated test data, but at this stage it is considered to be premature to do so. It should also be noted that 984 the URLLC specification is still work in progress at this stage in 3GPP, so likely first implementations will focus on 985 eMBB service, which leaves 2.9ms for combined O-RAN NFs, air interface, UE and cloud fabric latencies.

# 986 It is possible that network queuing delays may be the dominant delay contributor for some service classes. However, these
987 delay components should be understood to be in context of the most latency-sensitive services, particularly on RU-DU 988 interfaces, and relevant to the system level dimensioning. It is expected that if we will have multiple QoS classes, then 989 the delay and loss parameters are specified on per-class basis, but such specification is outside of scope of this section.

# 990 The delay components in this section are based on presently supported O-RAN splits, i.e., 3GPP reference split
991 configurations 7-2 & 8 for the RU-DU split (as defined in O-RAN), and 3GPP split 2 for F1 (as defined in O-RAN) and 992 associated transport allocations, and constraints are based on the 5G service requirements from ITU & 3GPP.

# 993 Other extensions have been approved and included in version 2.0 of the O-RAN Fronthaul specification [7], which allow
994 for so called “non-ideal” Fronthaul. It should be noted that while they allow substantially larger delays (e.g., 10 ms FH 995 splits have been described and implemented outside of O-RAN), they cannot be considered for all possible 5G use cases, 996 as for example it is clearly impossible to meet the 5G service-specification requirements over such large delay values 997 over the FH for URLLC or even 4 ms eMBB services. In addition, in specific scenarios (e.g., high-speed users), adding 998 latency to the fronthaul interface can result in reduced performance, and lower potential benefits, e.g. in Co-Ordinated

# 999 Multi-Point (CoMP) mechanisms.

## 5.3 Hardware Acceleration and Acceleration Abstraction Layer
(AAL)

# 1002 As stated in Section 4.3.2, an O-Cloud Node is a collection of CPUs, Memory, Storage, NICs, BIOSes, BMCs, etc., and 1003 may include hardware accelerators to offload computational-intense functions with the aim of optimizing the performance
1004 of the O-RAN Cloudified NF (e.g., O-RU, O-DU, O-CU-CP, O-CU-UP, near-RT RIC). There are many different types 1005 of hardware accelerators, such as FPGA, ASIC, DSP, GPU, and many different types of acceleration functions, such as

# 1006 Low-Density Parity-Check (LDPC), Forward Error Correction (FEC), end-to-end high-PHY for O-DU, security
1007 algorithms for O-CU, and Artificial Intelligence for RIC. The combination of hardware accelerator and acceleration 1008 function, and indeed the option to use hardware acceleration, is the vendor’s choice; however, all types of hardware 1009 acceleration on the cloud platform should ensure the decoupling of software from hardware. This decoupling implies the 1010 following key objectives:

# 1012 Cloud platforms (including agreed-upon Acceleration Abstraction Layer as defined in an upcoming
1013 specification) from multiple vendors, which in turn can support the software providing RAN functionality.

# 1015 UP, O-DU, and possibly O-RU functionality in the future) from multiple vendors.

# 1016 There are different concepts that should be considered for the hardware acceleration abstraction layer on the cloud
1017 platform; these are usually the following:

# 1018 • Accelerator Deployment Model

# 1019 • Acceleration Abstraction Layer (AAL) Interface (i.e., the APIs used by the NFs)

# 1021 Figure 16: Hardware Abstraction Considerations
Accelerator Deployment Model

# 1023 Figure 16 above presents two common hardware accelerator deployment models as examples: an abstracted
1024 implementation utilizing a vhost_user and virtIO type deployment, and a pass-through model using SR-IOV. While the 1025 abstracted model allows a full decoupling of the Network Function (NF) from the hardware accelerator, this model may 1026 not suit real-time latency sensitive NFs such as the O-DU. For better acceleration capabilities, SR-IOV pass through may 1027 be required, as it is supported in both VM and container environments. Acceleration Abstraction Layer (AAL) Interface

# 1029 To allow multiple NF vendors to utilize a given accelerator through its Acceleration Abstraction Layer (AAL) interface,
1030 the accelerators must provide an open-sourced API. Likewise, this API shall allow NFs applications to discover, 1031 configure, select and use (one or more) acceleration functions provided by a given accelerator on the cloud platform.

# 1032 Moreover, this API shall also support different offload architectures including look aside, inline and any combination of 1033 both. Examples of open APIs include DPDK’s CryptoDev, EthDev, EventDev, and Base Band Device (BBDEV).

# 1035 Network Function, but it will also package the appropriate Accelerator Driver (possibly provided by a 3rd party) and will
1036 indicate the corresponding AAL profile needed in the Operator’s O-Cloud. Figure 17 illustrates this for both Container 1037 and Virtual Machine (VM) deployments.

# 1040 Figure 17: Accelerator APIs/Libraries in Container and Virtual Machine Implementations
Accelerator Management and Orchestration Considerations

# 1042 Note that Figure 17 shows the APIs/Libraries as used by the NF application running in a Container or a VM, but there are
1043 several entities that require management. Accordingly, the figure also shows the Accelerator Management and

# 1044 Accelerator Driver in the O-Cloud. As will be discussed in Section 5.6, these entities (in addition to any hardware
1045 accelerator considerations) will be managed via O2, specifically the Infrastructure Management Services. Figure 17 also 1046 shows that the Accelerator Driver (e.g., the PMD driver) needs to be supported both by the O-Cloud Platform, by the

# 1047 Guest OS in case of VMs, and by the NF packaged into a container.

# 1048 In general, the hardware accelerators shall be capable of being managed and orchestrated. In particular, hardware
1049 accelerators shall support feature discovery and life cycle management. Existing Open-Source solutions may be leveraged 1050 for both VMs and containers as defined in an upcomingO2 specification. Examples include OpenStack Nova and Cyborg, 1051 while in Kubernetes we can leverage the device plugin framework for vendors to advertise their device and associated 1052 resources for the accelerator management.

## 5.4 Cloud Considerations

# 1054 In this section we talk about the list of cloud platform capabilities which is expected to be provided by the cloud platform
1055 to be able to support the deployment of the scenarios which are covered by this document.

# 1057 Container managed/orchestrated by Kubernetes, and therefore this section will cover both options.

# 1058 The discussion in most sub-sections of this section is structured into (up to) three parts: (1) Common, (2) Container
1059 only, and (3) VM only. Networking requirements

# 1061 A Cloud Platform should have the ability to support high performance N – S and E – W networking, with high throughput
1062 and low latency.

# 1063 5.4.1.1 Support for Multiple Networking Interfaces

# 1064 Common: In the different scenarios, near-RT RIC, vO-CU, and vO-DU all depend on having support for multiple
1065 network interfaces. The Cloud Platform is required to support the ability to assign multiple networking interfaces to a 1066 single container or VM instance, so that the cloud platform could support successful deployment for the different 1067 scenarios.

# 1068 Container-only: For example, the cloud platform can achieve this by supporting the implementation of Multus Container

# 1069 Networking Interface (CNI) Plugin. For more details, please see https://github.com/intel/multus-cni.

# 1071 Figure 18: Illustration of the Network Interfaces Attached to a Pod, as Provisioned by Multus CNI

# 1072 VM-only: OpenStack provides the Neutron component for networking. For more details, please see
1073 https://docs.openstack.org/neutron/stein/

# 1074 5.4.1.2 Support for High Performance N-S Data Plane

# 1075 Common: The Fronthaul connection between the O-RU/RU and vO-DU requires high performance and low latency.

# 1076 This means handling packets at high speed and low latency. As per the different scenarios covered in this document,
1077 multiple vO-DUs may be running on the same physical cloud platform, which will result in the need for sharing the same 1078 physical networking interface with multiple functions. Typically, the SR-IOV networking interface is used for this.

# 1079 The cloud platform will need to provide support for assigning SR-IOV networking interfaces to a container or VM
1080 instance, so the instance can use the network interface (physical function or virtual function) directly without using a 1081 virtual switch.

# 1082 If only one container needs to use the networking interface, the PCI pass-through network interface can provide high
1083 performance and low latency without using a virtual switch.

# 1084 In general, the following two items are needed for high performance N-S data throughput:

# 1085 • Support for SR-IOV, i.e., the ability to assign SR-IOV NIC interfaces to the containers/ VMs

# 1086 • Support for PCI pass-through for direct access to the NIC by the container/ VM

# 1088 IOV Network device plugin for Kubernetes. For more details, please refer to https://github.com/intel/sriov-network- 1089 device-plugin

# 1090 VM-only: OpenStack provides the Neutron component for networking. For more details, please see
1091 https://docs.openstack.org/neutron/stein/admin/config-sriov.html .

# 1092 5.4.1.3 Support for High-Performance E-W Data Plane

# 1094 RT RIC, vO-CU, and vO-DU scenarios which are covered in this document.

# 1095 One of commonly used options for E-W high-performance data plane is the use of a virtual switch which provides basic
1096 communication capability for instances deployed at either the same machine or different machines. It provides L2 and L3 1097 network functions.

# 1098 To get the high performance required, one of the options is to use a Data Plan Development Kit (DPDK)-based virtual
1099 switch. Using this method, the packets will not go into Linux kernel space networking, and instead will implement 1100 userspace networking which will improve the throughput and latency. To support this, the container or VM instance will 1101 need to use DPDK to accelerate packet handling.

# 1102 The cloud platform will need to provide the mechanism to support the implementation of userspace networking for 1103 container(s) / VM(s).

# 1104 Container-only: As an example, the cloud platform can achieve this by supporting implementation of Userspace CNI

# 1105 Plugin. For more details, please refer to https://github.com/intel/userspace-cni-network-plugin.

# 1107 Figure 19: Illustration of the Userspace CNI Plugin

# 1108 VM-only: OVS DPDK is an example of a Host userspace virtual switch and could provide high performance L2/L3
1109 packet receive and transmit.

# 1110 5.4.1.4 Support for Service Function Chaining

# 1111 Common: Support for a Service Function Chaining (SFC) capability requires the ability to create a service function
1112 chain between multiple VMs or containers. In the virtualization environment, multiple instances will usually be deployed, 1113 and being able to efficiently connect the instances to provide service will be a fundamental requirement.

# 1114 The ability to dynamically configure traffic flow will provide flexibility to Operators. When the service requirement or 1115 flow direction needs to be changed, the Service Function Chaining capability can be used to easily implement it instead
1116 of having to restart and reconfigure the services, networking configuration and Containers/VMs.

# 1117 Container-only: An example of SFC functionality is found at: https://networkservicemesh.io/

# 1119 Service Function Chaining capability.

# 1120 5.4.1.5 Support for VLAN based networking

# 1121 Common: VLAN based networking is the most common and fundamental form of networking. VLANs are typically
1122 used to provide the isolation of various types of traffic in cloud environments. Cloud platforms must support the traffic 1123 isolation requirements of the application.

# 1124 The O-RAN slicing use cases specified in [14] require the use of VLANs by O-RAN NFs to distinguish traffic belonging
1125 to different slices. To support this requirement, the O-Cloud platform must provide support for trunked VLAN network 1126 interfaces to be made available to Cloudified NFs (VMs and Containers) so that packets tagged with different VLANs 1127 can be transported on the same virtual network interface.

# 1130 Cloudified NFs in the Data Center as specified in [14]. Therefore, the O-Cloud must also ensure that any VLAN tags
1131 applied by the O-RAN NFs are carried over to the transport network.

# 1133 Container-only: For example, the cloud platform can achieve this by supporting the implementation of Multus Container

# 1134 Networking Interface (CNI) Plugin. For more details, please see https://github.com/k8snetworkplumbingwg/multus-cni

# 1135 VM only: OpenStack provides the Neutron component for networking. For more details, please see
1136 https://docs.openstack.org/neutron/stein/

# 1138 5.4.1.6 Support for O-Cloud Gateways to connect O-Cloud Sites with Transport Networks

# 1139 In disaggregated O-RAN deployments, the Network Functions (NFs) may be deployed in multiple O-Clouds or different
1140 locations within a given distributed O-Cloud. As an example, O-DU and O-CU-CP may be deployed in two different O-

# 1141 Clouds or different distributed O-Cloud sites. For O-CU-CP to communicate with O-DU, the networking needs to span
1142 across the O-Clouds or distributed O-Cloud sites via external transport networks.

# 1144 O-Cloud Attachment Circuit (OCAC), in each of the O-Cloud Sites. For the sake of this architecture, an OCAC is a 1145 logical connection enabling connectivity of O-Cloud Site Networks deployed within the O-Cloud Site to the outside of
1146 the O-Cloud Site. An O-Cloud Bearer is a physical or logical link that establishes connectivity between the O-Cloud Site 1147 and transport networks. It’s possible to carry one or more OCAC over the same O-Cloud Bearer. An O-Cloud Gateway 1148 can encapsulate, bridge, or stitch the O-Cloud Site Networks in different O-Cloud Sites e.g., for distributed O-Cloud

# 1149 Node Cluster Networks. In the deployment scenario where an O-Cloud Site includes the gateway functionality, one or 1150 more OCACs can exist on the O-Cloud Gateway.

# 1152 Beside the interconnection of O-Clouds and distributed O-Cloud sites, there are other external connections that also need
1153 to terminate the O-Clouds and O-Cloud sites domains in an O-Cloud Gateway function to ensure a clear demarcation of 1154 the different network domains. It is FFS which other gateway functions are needed as how they are to be named and how 1155 they are to be managed for example seeking inspiration in the ETSI GS NVF-SOL.005.

# 1157 O-Cloud shall provide support for one or more O-Cloud Gateway instances to provide connectivity to one or more
1158 transport networks. This does not restrict or impose any networking models within the O-Cloud as long as the O-Cloud 1159 provides a mechanism to connect the NFs to the O-Cloud Gateway so that the deployed NFs could reach other NFs 1160 deployed in other O-Clouds or O-Cloud sites, while maintaining the segmentation of the traffic between the NFs. It shall 1161 also be noted that each network domain can have its own networking model and segmentation scheme.

# 1163 O-Cloud Gateway augments the O-Cloud architecture model depicted by figure 10 and 11 in section 4.3.2.
Assignment of Acceleration Resources

# 1165 Common: For both container and VM solutions, specific devices such as accelerator (e.g., FPGA, GPU) may be needed.

# 1166 In this case, the cloud platform needs to be able to assign the specified device to container instance or VM instance.

# 1167 For example, some L1 protocols require an FFT algorithm (to compute the DFT) that could be implemented in an FPGA
1168 or GPU, and the vO-DU would need the PCI Pass-Through to assign the accelerator device to the vO-DU for access and 1169 use. Real-time / General Performance Feature Requirements

# 1171 5.4.3.1 Host Linux OS

# 1172 5.4.3.1.1 Support for Pre-emptive Scheduling

# 1173 Support may be required to support Pre-emptive Scheduling (real time Linux uses the preempt_rt patch). Generally,
1174 without real time features, it is very difficult for an application to get deterministic response times for events, interrupts 1175 and other reasons4. In addition, during the housekeeping processes in Linux system, the application also cannot guarantee 1176 the running time (CPU cycle), so from the wireless application design perspective, it needs the real time feature. In 1177 addition, to support the requirements of high throughput, multiple accesses and low latency, some wireless applications 1178 need the priority-based OS environment.

# 1179 5.4.3.2 Support for Node Feature Discovery

# 1180 Common: Automated and dynamic placement of Cloud-Native Network Functions (CNFs) / microservices and VMs is 1181 needed, based on the hardware requirements imposed on the vO-DU, vO-CU and near-RT RIC functions. This requires
1182 the cloud platform to support the ability to discover the hardware capabilities on each node and advertise it via labels vs. 1183 nodes, and allows O-RAN Cloudified NFs’ descriptions to have hardware requirements via labels. This mechanism is 1184 also known as Node Feature Discovery (NFD).

# 1185 Container-only: For example, the cloud platform can achieve this by supporting implementation of NFD for Kubernetes.

# 1186 For more details, please see https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/node-feature-discovery.

# 1187 VM-only: VMs can use OpenStack mechanisms. For example, the OpenStack Nova filter, host aggregates and 1188 availability zones can be used to implement the same function.

# 1189 5.4.3.3 Support for CPU Affinity and Isolation

# 1190 Common: The vO-DU, vO-CU and even the near-RT RIC are performance sensitive and require the ability to consume
1191 a large amount of CPU cycles to work correctly. They depend on the ability of the cloud platform to provide a mechanism 1192 to guarantee performance determinism even when there are noisy neighbors.

# 1193 Container-only: This requires the cloud platform to support using affinity and isolation of cores, so high performance

# 1194 Kubernetes Pod cores also can be dedicated to specified tasks. For example, the cloud platform can achieve this by 1195 implementing CPU Manager for Kubernetes. For more details, please refer to https://github.com/intel/CPU-Manager-for-

# 1196 Kubernetes .

# 1197 VM-only: For example the modern Linux operating system uses the Symmetric MultiProcessing (SMP) mode, so the 1198 system process and application will be located at different CPU cores. To run the VM and guarantee the VM performance,
1199 the capability to assign the specific CPU cores to a VM is the way to do that. And at the same time, CPU isolation will 1200 reduce the inter-core affinity. Please refer to https://docs.openstack.org/senlin/pike/scenarios/affinity.html Other options include things such as Linux signal, softwareirq, and perhaps using a common process. Because the pre-emptive kernel could interrupt the low priority process and occupy the CPU, it will get more chance to run the high priority process. Then through proper application design, it will have guaranteed time/resource and can have deterministic performance.

# 1201 5.4.3.4 Support for Dynamic HugePages Allocation

# 1202 Common: When an application requires high performance and performance determinism, the reduction of paging is very
1203 helpful. vO-DU, vO-CU and even near-RT RIC can require performance determinism. The cloud platform needs to be 1204 able to support the ability to provide this mechanism to applications that require it.

# 1205 This requires the cloud platform to support ability to dynamically allocate the necessary amount of the faster memory

# 1206 (a.k.a. HugePages) to the container or VM as necessary, and also to relinquish this memory allocation in the event of 1207 unexpected termination.

# 1208 Container-only: For example, the cloud platform can achieve this by supporting implementation of Manage HugePages
1209 in Kubernetes. For more details please refer to https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/manage-hugepages/scheduling- 1210 hugepages/ .

# 1211 VM-only: For example, the OpenStack Nova flavor setting can be used to configure the HugePage size for a VM instance.

# 1212 See https://docs.openstack.org/nova/pike/admin/huge-pages.html

# 1213 5.4.3.5 Support for Topology Manager

# 1214 Common: Some of the cloud infrastructure which is targeted in the scenarios in this document may have servers which
1215 utilize a multiple-socket configuration which comes with multiple memory regions. Each core5 is connected to a memory 1216 region. While each CPU on one socket can access the memory region of the CPUs on another socket of the same board, 1217 the access time is significantly slower when crossing socket boundaries, and this will affect performance significantly.

# 1218 The configuration of hardware with multiple memory regions is also known as Non-Uniform Memory Access (NUMA)
1219 regions. To support automated and dynamic placement of CNFs/microservices or VMs based on cloud infrastructure that 1220 has multiple NUMA regions and guarantee the response time of the application (especially for vO-DU), it is critical to be 1221 able to ensure that all the containers/VMs are associated with core(s) which are connected to the same NUMA region. In 1222 addition, if the application relies on access to hardware accelerators and/or I/O which uses memory as a way to interact 1223 with the application, it is also critical that those also use the same NUMA region that the application uses.

# 1224 The cloud platform will need to provide the mechanism to enable managing the NUMA topology to ensure the placement
1225 of specified containers/VMs on cores which are on the same NUMA region, as well as making sure that the devices which 1226 the application uses are also connected to the same NUMA region.

# 1228 Figure 20: Example Illustration of Two NUMA Regions

# 1229 5.4.3.6 Support for Scale In/Out

# 1230 Common: The act of scaling in/out of containers/ VMs can be based on triggers such as CPU load, network load, and 1231 storage consumption. The network service usually is not just a single container or VM, and in order to leverage the
1232 container/ VM benefit, the network service usually will have multiple containers/ VMs. But if demand is changing In this document, we use the terms core and socket in the following way. A socket, or more precisely the multichip platform that fits into a server socket, contains multiple cores, each of which is a separate CPU. Each core in a socket has some dedicated memory, and also some shared memory among other cores of the same socket, which are within the same NUMA zone. 1233 dynamically, especially for the O-CU, the service needs to be scaled in/out according to service requirements such as 1234 subscriber quantity.

# 1235 For example, when the number of subscribers increases, the system needs to start more container/ VM instances to ensure
1236 the service quality. From the cloud platform perspective, it could monitor the CPU load; if the load reaches a level such 1237 as 80%, it needs to scale out. If the CPU load drops 40%, it could then scale in.

# 1238 Different services can scale in/out depending on different criteria, such as the CPU load, network load and storage
1239 consumption. Support for scale in/out can be helpful in implementing on-demand services.

# 1240 Editor’s Note: Support for scale up/down is not discussed at this time but may be revisited in the 1241 future.

# 1242 5.4.3.7 Support for Device Plugin

# 1244 GPUs may be required to meet performance objectives that can’t be met by using software only implementations. In 1245 other cases, such accelerators can be useful as an option to reduce the consumption of CPU cycles to achieve better cost
1246 efficiency.

# 1247 The cloud platform will need to provide the mechanism to support those accelerators. This in turn requires support the 1248 ability to discover, advertise, schedule and manage devices such as SR-IOV, GPU, and FPGA.

# 1250 Kubernetes. For more details please check: https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/compute-storage- 1251 net/device-plugins/.

# 1252 VM-only: The PCI passthrough feature in OpenStack allows full access and direct control of a physical PCI device in 1253 guests. This mechanism is generic for any kind of PCI device, and runs with a Network Interface Card (NIC), Graphics

# 1254 Processing Unit (GPU), or any other devices that can be attached to a PCI bus. Correct driver installation is the only
1255 requirement for the guest to properly use the devices.

# 1256 Some PCI devices provide Single Root I/O Virtualization and Sharing (SR-IOV) capabilities. When SR-IOV is used, a 1257 physical device is virtualized and appears as multiple PCI devices. Virtual PCI devices are assigned to the same or
1258 different guests. In the case of PCI passthrough, the full physical device is assigned to only one guest and cannot be shared.

# 1259 See https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Cyborg

# 1260 5.4.3.8 Support for Direct IRQ Assignment

# 1261 VM-only: The general-purpose platform has many devices that will generate the IRQ to the system. To develop a 1262 performance-sensitive application, inclusion of low-latency and deterministic timing features, and assigning the IRQ to a
1263 specific CPU core, will reduce the impact of housekeeping processes and decrease the response time to desired IRQs.

# 1264 5.4.3.9 Support for No Over Commit CPU

# 1265 VM-only: The “No Over Commit CPU” VM creation option is able to guarantee VM performance with a “dedicated

# 1266 CPU” model.

# 1267 In traditional telecom equipment design, this will maintain the level of CPU utilization to avoid burst and congestion
1268 situations. In a virtualization environment, performance-sensitive applications such as vO-DU, vO-CU, and near-RT RIC 1269 will need the platform to provide a mechanism to secure the CPU resource.

# 1270 5.4.3.10 Support for Specifying CPU Model

# 1273 “host-passthrough”. This allows VMs to leverage advanced features of selected CPU architectures. For the vO-CU and 1274 vO-DU design and implementation, there will be some algorithm and computing functions that can leverage host CPU
1275 instructions to realize some benefits such as performance. The cloud platform needs to provide this capability to VMs. Storage Requirements

# 1277 The storage requirements are the same for both VM and Container based implementations.

# 1278 For O-RAN components, the O-RAN Cloudified NF needs storage for the image and for the O-RAN Cloudified NF itself.

# 1279 It should support different scale, e.g., for a Regional Cloud vs. an Edge Cloud. The cloud platform needs to support a 1280 large-scale storage solution with redundancy, medium and small-scale storage solutions for two or more servers, and a
1281 very small-scale solution for a single server. Notification Subscription Framework

# 1284 DU needs to know that the node that it starts on has a PTP clock in sync with the master clock.

# 1285 Rationale – Application functionality often relies on but is not limited to O-Cloud platform HW resources such as FPGA,

# 1286 GPU, PHC. Hence, these application(s) should have the ability to select the resources that will provide them notifications
1287 about the status of these resources, initial state and changing state. This requires the applications to use a privilege mode 1288 in order to access the O-Cloud platform drivers and retrieve the status. However, in a Cloud Native environment, 1289 applications should not have a privilege mode for accessing the O-Cloud resources. This framework allows applications 1290 to subscribe for their necessary notifications without claiming a privilege mode and comply with O-Cloud Native 1291 requirements.

# 1292 5.4.5.1 O-Cloud Notification Subscription Requirements

# 1293 Tracking function:

# 1294 • tracks for resource(s) state of relevant data (for example, change in class of a master clock)

# 1295 • tracking function can be configured with tracking frequency per the resource being tracked (default value will
1296 be defined)

# 1297 Registration function:

# 1298 • allows application(s) and/or SMO (or other entities) to query for the resources that provide notifications

# 1299 • allows application(s) and/or SMO (or other entities) to subscribe to receiving notifications from the selected
1300 resource(s)

# 1301 • allows application(s) and/or SMO (or other entities) to subscribe to pulling notifications/data from the selected
1302 resource(s)

# 1303 • allows application(s) and/or SMO (or other entities) to unsubscribe to notification(s) which were previously
1304 subscribed to for either receiving or pulling notifications

# 1305 • The registration function updates the notification function about the state of the subscription and its request type

# 1306 (receiving or pulling notifications)

# 1307 Notification function:

# 1308 • used by the tracking function to message registered listeners of the resource state and/or its relevant data

# 1309 • pulls the tracking function per the application and/or SMO request

# 1310 • as soon as an application and/or SMO registers it receives a notification of the resource(s) status it is subscribed
1311 to

# 1312 Figure 21 illustrates the architecture for implementing a framework for notification subscription. This diagram shows the 1313 functionally and interaction from a logical perspective, however, where these functions reside or how they are
1314 implemented is not in scope of this document and will be described by Cloud Platform Reference Design [12].

# 1316 Figure 21: O-Cloud Notification Framework Architecture

## 5.5 Sync Architecture

# 1318 Synchronization mechanisms and options are receiving significant attention in the industry.

# 1319 Editor’s Note: O-RAN Working Groups 4 and 5 are addressing some aspects of synchronization, and more
1320 discussion of Sync is expected in future versions of this document.

# 1321 Version 2 of the Control, User and Synchronization (CUS) Plane Specification [7] discusses, in chapter 9.2.2, “Clock

# 1323 C1 – LLS-C4) that are required to support different O-RAN deployment scenarios. Configuration LLS-C3 is seen as the 1324 most likely initial option for deployment and is discussed below. This section will provide a summary of what is required
1325 to support the LLS-C1 and LLS-C3 synchronization topology from the cloud platform perspective.

# 1326 Note that in chapter 6 “Deployment Scenarios and Implementation Considerations” of this document, we call the site
1327 which runs the vO-DU the “Edge Cloud”, while the Control, User and Synchronization (CUS) Plane Specification [7] 1328 calls it the “Central Site”. However, the meaning is the same. Cloud Platform Time Synchronization Architecture

# 1330 The Time Sync deployment architecture which is described below relies on usage of Precision Time Protocol (PTP) IEEE
1331 1588-2008 (a.k.a. IEEE 1588 Version 2) to synchronize clocks throughout the Edge Cloud site.

# 1332 For LLS-C3 in the CUS specification [7], vO-DU may act as a Telecom Slave Clock (T-TSC) and select the time source
1333 the same SyncE and PTP distribution from fronthaul as O-RU. Please note that the following synchronization topology 1334 for LLS-C3 will address only the case where O-DU and O-RU are synchronized from the same time source connected to 1335 the fronthaul network, other cases are for Further Study.

# 1336 For LLS-C1, the O-Cloud running the vO-DU acts as synchronization master towards the fronthaul interface to 1337 synchronize the O-RU. Please note that the following synchronization topology for LLS-C1 will address only the case
1338 where O-DU synchronization source is from a local PRTC (GNSS receiver), other cases are for Further Study.

# 1340 5.5.1.1 Edge Cloud Site Level – LLS-C3 Synchronization Topology

# 1341 This section outlines what the time synchronization architecture should be from the cloud platform perspective and 1342 identifies requirements that the Cloud Platform and Edge Site need to support in order to support the O-RAN deployment
1343 scenarios that use the LLS-C3 synchronization topology described in CUS specification [7].

# 1344 5.5.1.1.1 LLS-C3 Synchronization Topology Edge Site Time Synchronization Architecture

# 1345 The deployment architecture at the Edge Cloud site level includes:

# 1346 • Primary Reference Time Clock (PRTC)-traceable time source (i.e., Grandmaster Clocks):
1347 o External precision time source for the PTP networks, usually based on Global Navigation

# 1348 Satellite System/Global Positioning System (GNSS/GPS)

# 1349 • Compute Nodes:
1350 o Compute Nodes synchronize their clocks to a Grandmaster Clock via the Fronthaul Network

# 1351 • Controller Nodes:
1352 o Controller Nodes synchronize their clocks to the Network Time Protocol (NTP) via the

# 1353 Management Network

# 1355 Figure 22 illustrates the relationship of these entities where the Controller functions are hosted on separate
1356 nodes from the Compute nodes. Figure 23 illustrates the relationships where each Compute node also includes 1357 the Controller functions (i.e., the hyperconverged case).

# 1360 Figure 22: Edge Cloud Site Time Sync Architecture for LLS-C3
M M D a n a g e m e n t N e tw o rk

# O -C lo u d
M a n a g e m e n t (O C M ) a n a g e m e n t N e tw o rk

# O -C lo u d
C o m p u te N o d e a ta N e tw o rk F ro n th a u l N e tw o S C e ll S ite (O -R U ) r k c o m C c p u te -0 S S e ll S ite (O o n -R tro

# U )
lle r-0 c o m … p u S

# N T P
… te -1 C e c o n tro lle … S ll S ite (O r-N c -R U o m ) p u S te -N

# P T P
G ra C C lo c n d m lo c k k S o M a s te (s ) u rc e r T P -B C

# T P S w
M S itc h M S a ste la v e r

# 1362 Figure 23: Hyperconverged Edge Cloud Time Sync Architecture for LLS-C3

# 1363 5.5.1.1.2 LLS-C3 Synchronization Topology Edge Site Requirements

# 1364 To support time synchronization at the Edge site, the cloud platform (O-Cloud) used at the Edge site needs to support
1365 implementation of the PTP IEEE 1588-2008 (a.k.a. IEEE 1588 Version 2) standard. The compute nodes should meet the

# 1366 “Time and Frequency Synchronization Requirements” described in CUS specification [7]. The following software and 1367 hardware capabilities are required:

# 1368 5.5.1.1.2.1 Software

# 1369 Support for PTP will be needed in all the Edge Site O-Cloud nodes that support compute roles and will run vO-DU service
1370 operating as a Slave Clock. The following PTP configuration options should be provided: 1371 o Network Transport – L2, UDPv4, UDPv6 1372 o Delay Measurement Mechanism – utilize E2E to measure the delay 1373 o Time Stamping – support for hardware time stamping

# 1375 For example: in the case when an O-Cloud is based on the Linux OS, this will require support for Linux PTP (see
1376 http://linuxptp.sourceforge.net) with the following: 1377 o ptp4l – implementation of PTP (Ordinary Clock, Boundary Clock), HW timestamping, E2E delay measurement 1378 mechanism. 1379 o phc2sys – Synchronization of two clocks, PHC and system clock (Linux clock) when using HW timestamping

# 1381 5.5.1.1.2.2 Hardware

# 1382 Use of High speed, low latency Network Interface Card (NIC) with support for PTP Hardware Clock (PHC) subsystem
1383 for the data interface (fronthaul) on all the compute node(s) that will run the vO-DU function. When vO-DU requires

# 1384 SyncE, the NIC must support it.

# 1385 5.5.1.2 Edge Cloud Site Level – LLS-C1 Synchronization Topology

# 1386 This section outlines what the time synchronization architecture should be from the cloud platform perspective and 1387 identifies requirements that the Cloud Platform and Edge Site need to support in order to support the O-RAN deployment
1388 scenarios that use the LLS-C1 synchronization topology described in CUS specification [7].

# 1389 5.5.1.2.1 LLS-C1 Synchronization Topology Edge Site Time Synchronization Architecture

# 1390 The deployment architecture at the Edge Cloud site level includes:

# 1391 • Primary Reference Time Clock (PRTC)-traceable time source (i.e., Grandmaster Clocks):
1392 o External precision time source for the PTP networks, usually based on Global Navigation

# 1393 Satellite System/Global Positioning System (GNSS/GPS)
D M a C a n a g e m e n t N

# O -C lo u d
H y p e r c o n v e ta N e tw o rk F r o n t h a u l N S e ll S ite (O -R e tw r g e e t w

# U )
o rk d o r k c o n t c o m C e ll S r o lle r-0 p u te -0 S S ite (O -R U ) . … C o c o n m t r o lle r-1 p u te -1 S P S C e ll S ite (O

# T P
-R U ) G C ra n d m C lo c k lo c k S o M a s te r (s ) u r c e

# T -B C

# P T P S w itc h
M S M S a ste la v e r

# 1394 • Compute Nodes:
1395 o Compute Node as acts synchronization master towards the fronthaul interface

# 1396 • Controller Nodes:
1397 o Controller Nodes synchronize their clocks to the Network Time Protocol (NTP) via the

# 1398 Management Network

# 1400 Figure 24 illustrates the relationship of these entities where the Controller functions are hosted on separate
1401 nodes from the Compute nodes. Figure 25 illustrates the relationships where each Compute node also includes 1402 the Controller functions (i.e., the hyperconverged case).

# 1404 Figure 24: Edge Cloud Site Time Sync Architecture for LLS-C1

# 1406 Figure 25: Hyperconverged Edge Cloud Time Sync Architecture for LLS-C1

# 1407 5.5.1.2.2 LLS-C1 Synchronization Topology Edge Site Requirements

# 1408 To support time synchronization at the Edge site, the cloud platform (O-Cloud) used at the Edge site needs to support
1409 implementation of the PTP IEEE 1588-2008 (a.k.a. IEEE 1588 Version 2) standard. The compute nodes should meet the

# 1410 “Time and Frequency Synchronization Requirements” described in CUS specification [7]. The following software and 1411 hardware capabilities are required:

# 1412 5.5.1.2.2.1 Software

# 1413 Support for PTP will be needed in all the Edge Site O-Cloud node that supports compute role and will run vO-DU service
1414 operating as a Master Clock. The following PTP configuration options should be provided: 1415 o Network Transport – L2, UDPv4, UDPv6 1416 o Delay Measurement Mechanism – utilize E2E to measure the delay 1417 o Time Stamping – support for hardware time stamping

# 1419 5.5.1.2.2.2 Hardware

# 1420 Use of High speed, low latency Network Interface Card (NIC) with support for PTP Hardware Clock (PHC) subsystem
1421 for the data interface (fronthaul) on all the compute node(s) that will run the vO-DU function.

# 1422 When vO-DU requires SyncE, the NIC must support it.
Loss of Synchronization Notification

# 1424 Applications that rely on a Precision Time Protocol for synchronization (such as vO-DU but not limited to) should have
1425 the ability to retrieve the relevant data that can indicate the status of the PHC clock related to the worker node that the 1426 application is running on (for example a source clock class). Once an application subscribes to PTP notifications it 1427 receives the initial data which shows the PHC synchronization state and it will receive notifications when there is a state 1428 change to the sync status and/or per request for notification (pull), please refer to the notification subscription framework

# 1429 (section 5.4.5) how to subscribe for a PTP Notification.

# 1431 O-RU time synchronization.

# 1432 • For example, if an vO-DU transits to the FREERUN state, because the synchronizing network delivers
1433 unacceptable synchronization quality, the vO-DU shall disable RF transmission on all connected O-RUs, and 1434 keep it turned off until synchronization is reacquired again.

# 1435 It should be noted that since vO-DU may need to take an action upon the synchronization notification (see example above)
1436 it is required to handle these notifications at the scope of the edge cloud (at the site location where the vO-DU is running) 1437 for two main reasons: ensuring that the vO-DU receives the notifications regardless of the communication state of its 1438 backhaul link and reducing the round trip delay for notifying the vO-DU.

# 1439 Figure 26 illustrates an vO-DU subscribes to retrieve PTP Notification based on the subscription framework described at 1440 section 5.4.5.

# 1442 Figure 26: vO-DU Subscribes to PTP Notification

## 5.6 Operations and Maintenance Considerations

# 1445 Management of cloudified RAN Network Functions introduces some new management considerations, because the 1446 mapping between Network Functionality and physical hardware can be done in multiple ways, depending on the Scenario
1447 that is chosen. Thus, management of aspects that are related to physical aspects rather than logical aspects need to be 1448 designed with flexibility in mind from the start. For example, logging of physical functions, scale out actions, and 1449 survivability considerations are affected.

# 1450 The O-RAN Alliance has defined key fundamentals of the OAM framework (see [8] and [9], and refer to Figure 1). Given
1451 the number of deployment scenario options and possible variations of O-RAN Managed Functions (MFs) being mapped 1452 into Managed Elements (MEs) in different ways, it is important for all MEs to support a consistent level of visibility and 1453 control of their contained Managed Functions to the Service Management & Orchestration Framework. This consistency 1454 will be enabled by support of the common OAM Interface Specification [9] for Fault Configuration Accounting

# 1455 Performance Security (FCAPS) and Life Cycle Management (LCM) functionality, and a common Information Modelling

# 1456 Framework that will provide underlying information models used for the MEs and MFs in a particular deployment.
The O1 Interface

# 1458 As described in [8], the O1 is an interface between management entities in Service Management and Orchestration

# 1459 Framework and O-RAN managed elements, for operation and management, by which FCAPS management, Software
1460 management, File management shall be achieved. The O2 Interface

# 1462 The O2 Interface is a collection of services and their associated interfaces that are provided by the O-Cloud platform to 1463 the SMO. The services are categorized into two logical groups:

# 1464 • Infrastructure Management Services: which include the subset of O2 functions that are responsible for 1465 deploying and managing cloud infrastructure.

# 1466 • Deployment Management Services: which include the subset of O2 functions that are responsible for 1467 managing the lifecycle of virtualized/containerized deployments on the cloud infrastructure.

# 1469 SMO functional elements needed to consume these services shall be described in OAM architecture. O2 interface would
1470 also address the management of hardware acceleration and supporting software in the O-Cloud platform.

## 5.7 Transport Network Architecture

# 1472 While a Transport Network is a necessary foundation upon which to build any O-RAN deployment, a great many of the 1473 aspects of transport do not have to be addressed or specified in O-RAN Alliance documents. For example, any location
1474 with cloud servers will be connected by layer 2 or layer 3 switches, but we do not need to specify much if anything about 1475 them in this document.

# 1476 The transport media used, particularly for fronthaul, can have an effect on aspects such as performance. However, in the 1477 current version of this document we have been assuming that fiber transport is used.

# 1478 Editor’s Note: Other transport technologies (e.g., microwave) are also possible, and could be addressed
1479 at a later date.

# 1480 That said, the use of an (optional) Fronthaul Gateway (FHGW)/Fronthaul Multiplexer (FHM) will have noteworthy
1481 effects on any O-RAN deployment that uses it.

# 1482 The use of a FHGW or FHM depends on whether protocol translation between O-DU and O-RU is necessary [15].

# 1483 Fronthaul Gateway translates fronthaul protocol from an O-DUx with split option x to an O-RUy with split option y,
1484 wherein currently the translation between option 7-2→8 is available. A Fronthaul Multiplexer does not translate between 1485 fronthaul split options, i.e., both O-DUx and O-RUx necessarily support the same split option x; currently options 6→6,

# 1486 7-2→7-2 and 8→8 are available.
Fronthaul Gateways/Fronthaul Multiplexers

# 1488 In the deployment scenarios that follow, when the O-DU and O-RU functions are not implemented in the same physical
1489 node, a Fronthaul Gateway/Fronthaul Multiplexer is shown as an optional element between them. A Fronthaul

# 1490 Gateway/Fronthaul Multiplexer can be motivated by different factors depending on a carrier’s deployment and may
1491 perform different functions.

# 1492 The O-RAN Alliance does not currently have a single definition of a Fronthaul Gateway, and this document does not
1493 attempt to define one. However, the Fronthaul Gateway/Fronthaul Multiplexer is included in the diagrams as an optional 1494 implementation to acknowledge the fact that carriers are considering Fronthaul Gateways/Fronthaul Multiplexer in their 1495 plans. Below are some examples of the functionality that could be provided:

# 1496 • A FHGW can convert CPRI connections to the node supporting the O-RU function to eCPRI connections to the 1497 node that provides O-DU functionality.

# 1499 O-DU uses Option 7-2, as mentioned earlier in Section 4.1. When there is a FHGW, it may have an Option

# 1500 7-2 interface to both the O-DU and the O-RU, but it is also possible for the FHGW to have a different
1501 interface to the O-RU/RU; for example, where CPRI is supported.

# 1502 • A FHGW/FHM can support the aggregation of fiber pairs.

# 1503 • A FHGW/FHM must support the following forwarding functions:

# 1504 • Downlink: Transport the traffic from O-DU to each O-RU (and cascading FHGW/FHM, if present)

# 1505 • Uplink: Summation of traffic from O-RUs

# 1506 • A FHGW/FHM can provide power to the NEs supporting the O-RU function, e.g. via Power over Ethernet (PoE)
1507 or hybrid cable/fibers

## 5.8 Overview of Deployment Scenarios

# 1509 The description of logical functionality in O-RAN includes the definition of key interfaces E2, F1, and Open Fronthaul.

# 1511 RAN Physical NF/O-RAN Cloudified NF. Multiple logical functions can be implemented in a single O-RAN Physical

# 1512 NF/O-RAN Cloudified NF (for example O-DU and O-RU may be packaged as a single appliance).

# 1513 We assume that when Network Functions are implemented as different O-RAN Physical NFs/O-RAN Cloudified NFs,
1514 the interfaces between them must conform to the O-RAN specifications. However, when multiple Network Functions 1515 are implemented by a single O-RAN Physical NF/O-RAN Cloudified NF, it is up to the operator to decide whether to 1516 enforce the O-RAN interfaces between the embedded Network Functions. However, note that the OAM requirements 1517 for each separate Network Function will still need to be met.

# 1518 The current deployment scenarios for discussion are summarized in the figure below. This includes options that are
1519 deployable in both the short and long term. Each will be discussed in some detail in the following sections, followed by 1520 a summary of which one or ones are candidates for initial focus. Please note that, to help ease the high-level depiction of 1521 functionality, a single O-CU box is shown with an F1 interface, but in detailed discussions of specific scenarios, this will 1522 need to be discussed properly as composed of an O-CU-CP function with an F1-c interface and an O-CU-UP function 1523 with an F1-u interface. Furthermore, there would in general be an unequal number of O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP instances.

# 1524 Figure 27 below shows the Network Functions at the top, and each identified scenario shows how these Network

# 1525 Functions are deployed as O-RAN Physical NFs or as O-RAN Cloudified NFs running on an O-RAN compliant O-Cloud.

# 1526 The term O-Cloud is defined in Section 4. Please note that the requirements for an O-Cloud are driven by the Network

# 1527 Functions that need to be supported by the hardware, so for instance an O-Cloud that supports an O-RU function would
1528 be different from an O-Cloud that supports O-CU functionality.

# 1529 Finally, note that in the high-level figure below, the User Plane (UP) traffic is shown being delivered to the UPF. As will
1530 be discussed, in specific scenarios it is sometimes possible for UP traffic to be delivered to edge applications that are 1531 supported by Mobile Edge Computing (MEC). However, note that the specification of MEC itself is out of scope of this 1532 document.

# 1533 Note that vendors are not required to support all scenarios – it is a business decision to be made by each vendor. Similarly,
1534 each operator will decide which scenarios it wishes to deploy. E2 Open Near-RT E2 F1 fronthaul RIC O-CU O-DU O-RU UPF Key Open FH “O-Cloud” indicates that an O-RAN Scenario A O-Cloud O-RAN Cloud Platform is used to support Physical NF the RAN functions. This will E2 Edge Cloud Cell Site optionally use hardware accelerator O-RAN add-ons as required by each RAN O-Cloud O-Cloud Scenario B Physical NF function, and the software stack is Regional Cloud Edge Cloud Cell Site decoupled from the hardware. Each F1, E2 O-Cloud uses open interfaces. O-RAN Scenario C O-Cloud O-Cloud Physical NF Regional Cloud Edge Cloud Cell Site Network Functions O-RAN (e.g., O-CU + O-DU) Scenario C.1 & C.2 O-Cloud O-Cloud Physical NF Regional Cloud Edge Cloud Cell Site O-Cloud O-RAN O-RAN Scenario D O-Cloud Physical NF Physical NF Could be 100% O-RAN Physical NF Regional Cloud Edge Location Cell Site (potentially in an open chassis, open O-Cloud & optional O-RAN HW design). Uses Open interfaces. Scenario E & E.1 O-Cloud Physical NF Regional Cloud Cell Site O-RAN Physical NF Scenario F O-Cloud O-Cloud O-Cloud

# 1535 Regional Cloud Edge Cloud Cell Site

# 1536 Figure 27: High-Level Comparison of Scenarios

# 1537 Each scenario is discussed in the next section.

# 6 Deployment Scenarios and Implementation
Considerations

# 1542 O-RAN Physical NFs, O-RAN Cloudified NFs or O-Cloud platforms may become more specific and unique, while many
1543 of the logical Network Function requirements will remain the same.

# 1544 Please note that in all of the scenario figures of this section, the interfaces are logical interfaces (e.g., F1, E2, etc.). This
1545 has a couple of implications. First, the two functions on each side of an interface could be on different devices separated 1546 by physical transport connections (e.g., fiber or Ethernet transport connections), could be on different devices within the 1547 same cloud platform, or could even exist within the same server. Second, the functions on each side of an interface could 1548 be from the same vendor or different vendors.

# 1549 In addition, please note that all User Plane interfaces are shown with a solid lines, and all Control Plane interfaces use
1550 dashed lines.

# 1551 Editor’s note: The terms vO-CU and vO-DU represent virtualized or containerized O-CU and O-DU, and 1552 are used interchangeably with O-CU and O-DU in the scenarios (with the exception when the O-DU
1553 is explicitly stated as a non-virtualized O-DU).

# 1556 In this scenario, the near-RT RIC, O-CU, and O-DU functions are all virtualized on the same cloud platform, and 1557 interfaces between those functions are within the same cloud platform.

# 1558 This scenario supports deployments in dense urban areas with an abundance of fronthaul capacity that allows BBU
1559 functionality to be pooled in a central location with sufficiently low latency to meet the O-DU latency requirements.

# 1560 Therefore, it does not attempt to centralize the near-RT RIC more than the limit that O-DU functionality can be
1561 centralized.

# 1566 DU and O-RU/RU is necessary.

# 1568 RAN Fronthaul requirements (e.g., it might be an Option 8 interface), in which case the Radio Unit could be referred to 1569 as an “RU”, not an “O-RU”. However, if FHGWs are defined to support an interface such as Option 8, it could be argued
1570 that the O-RU definition at that time will support Option 8. Key Use Cases and Drivers

# 1572 Editor’s Note: This section is FFS.

## 6.2 Scenario B

# 1575 DU functions are virtualized on an Edge Cloud hardware platform that in general will be at a different location. The 1576 interface between the Near-RT RIC network function and the O-CU/O-DU network functions is E2. Interfaces between
1577 the O-CU and O-DU Network Functions are within the same Cloud Platform.

# 1580 Figure 29: Scenario B – NR Stand-alone

# 1581 This scenario addresses deployments in locations with limited remote fronthaul capacity and O-RUs spread out in an area
1582 that limits the number of O-RUs that can be supported by pooled vO-CU/vO-DU functionality while still meeting the O-

# 1583 DU latency requirements. The use of a FHGW in the architecture allows significant savings in providing transport
1584 between the O-RU and vO-DU functionality.

# 1586 DU and O-RU/RU is necessary.

# 1589 Figure 30: Scenario B – MR-DC (inter-RAT NR and E-UTRA) regardless of the Core Network type (either EPC
1590 or 5GC)

# 1591 An Alternative to NR Standalone scenario B is given by the MR-DC (inter-RAT NR/E-UTRA) scenarios which extend
1592 requirements on the cloud platform to additionally support E-UTRA network functions (subscript E) and required 1593 interfaces Xn, open fronthaul and W1. The W1 interface, defined in 3GPP TS 37.470, only applies to E-UTRA nodes 1594 connected to 5G Core Network, i.e., ng-eNB as defined in 3GPP TS 38.300 and TS 38.401. Moreover, the foreseen MR-

# 1595 DC (inter-RAT NR/E-UTRA) scenarios also include the EPC-connected E-UTRA-NR Dual Connectivity (EN-DC) by 1596 properly replacing the Xn interface with the X2 interface interconnecting E-UTRA nodes (eNBs) and NR ones (en-gNBs),
1597 with the possibility to exploit vO-CU/vO-DU functional split only for the en-gNBs6.

# 1598 As discussed earlier in Section 5.1.3, the O-CU and O-DU functions can be virtualized using either simple centralization
1599 or pooled centralization. The desire is to have support for pooled centralization, although we need to understand what 1600 needs to be developed to enable such sharing. Perhaps pooling will be a later feature, but any initial solution should not 1601 preclude a future path to a pooled solution.

# 1603 DU and O-RU/RU is necessary.
Key Use Cases and Drivers

# 1605 In this case, there are multiple O-RUs distributed in an area served by a centralized vO-DU functionality that can meet
1606 the latency requirements. Depending on the concentration of the O-RUs, N could vary, but in general is expected to be 1607 engineered to support < 64 TRPs per O-DU.7 The near-RT RIC is centralized further to allow for optimization based on 1608 a more global view (e.g., a single large metropolitan area), and to reduce the number of separate near-RT RIC instances 1609 that need to be managed.

# 1610 The driving use case for this is to support an outdoor deployment of a mix of Small Cells and Macro cells in a relatively
1611 dense urban setting. This can support mmWave as well as Sub-6 deployments.

# 1612 In this scenario, a given “virtual BBU” supports both vO-CU and vO-DU functions and can connect many O-RUs.

# 1613 Current studies show that savings from pooling are significant but level off once more than 64 Transmission Reception

# 1614 Points (TRPs) are pooled. This would imply N would be around 32-64. This deployment should support tens of thousands
1615 of O-RUs per near-RT RIC, so L could easily exceed 100.

# 1616 Below is a summary of the cardinality requirements assumed for this scenario.

# 1617 Table 2: Cardinality and Delay Performance for Scenario B
Attribute RIC – O-CU O-CU – O-DU O-DU – O-RU/RU Example Cardinality L = 100+ M=1 N = 1-64

## 6.3 Scenario C

# 1619 In this scenario, the near-RT RIC and O-CU Network Functions are virtualized on a Regional Cloud Platform with a 1620 general server hardware platform, and the O-DU Network Functions are virtualized on an Edge Cloud hardware platform
1621 that is expected to include significant hardware accelerator capabilities. Interfaces between the near-RT RIC and the O-

# 1622 CU network functions are within the same Cloud Platform. The interface between the Regional Cloud and the Edge cloud
1623 is F1, and an E2 interface from the near-RT RIC to the O-DU must also be supported. O-eNB vO-CU/vO-DU split (foreseen in 3GPP), is pending O-RAN architecture alignment in wg1.

# E E
It is assumed that one O-RU is associated with one TRP. For example, if a cell site has three sectors, then each sector would have at least one TRP and hence at least three O-RUs.

# 1626 Figure 31: Scenario C

# 1627 This scenario is to support deployments in locations with limited remote Fronthaul capacity and O-RUs spread out in an 1628 area that limits the number of O-RUs that can be pooled while still meeting the O-DU latency requirements. It also applies
1629 to some whitebox macrocell deployments. The O-CU Network Function is further pooled to increase the efficiency of the 1630 hardware platform which it shares with the near-RT RIC Network Function.

# 1631 However, note that if a service type has tighter O-CU delay requirements than other services, then that may either severely
1632 limit the number of O-RUs supported by the Regional cloud, or a method will be needed to separate the processing of 1633 such services. This will be discussed further in the following C.1 and C.2 Scenarios.

# 1634 The use of a FH GW in the architecture allows significant savings in providing transport between the O-RU and vO-DU
1635 functionality.

# 1637 DU and O-RU/RU is necessary.
Key Use Cases and Drivers

# 1639 In this case, there are multiple O-RUs distributed in an area where each O-RU can meet the latency requirement for the 1640 pooled vO-DU function. The near-RT RIC and O-CU Network Functions are further centralized to realize additional
1641 efficiencies.

# 1642 A use case for this is to support an outdoor deployment of a mix of Small Cells and Macro cells in a relatively dense
1643 urban setting. This can support mmWave as well as Sub-6 deployments.

# 1644 In this scenario, as in Scenario B, the Edge Cloud is expected to support roughly 32-64 O-RUs. This deployment should
1645 support tens of thousands of O-RUs per near-RT RIC.

# 1646 Below is a summary of the cardinality and the distance/delay requirements assumed for this scenario.

# 1647 Table 3: Cardinality and Delay Performance for Scenario C
Attribute RIC – O-CU O-CU – O-DU O-DU – O-RU/RU Example Cardinality L= 1 M=100+ N=Roughly 32-64 Scenario C.1, and Use Case and Drivers

# 1649 This is a variation of Scenario C, driven by the fact that different types of traffic (network slices) have different latency
1650 requirements. In particular, URLLC has more demanding user-plane latency requirements, and Figure 32 below shows 1651 how the vO-CU User Part (vO-CU-UP) could be terminated in different places for different network slices. Below, 1652 network slice 3 is terminated in the Edge Cloud. This scenario is also suitable in case there isn’t enough space or power 1653 supply to install all vO-CUs and vO-DUs in one Edge Cloud site.

# 1655 Figure 32: Treatment of Network Slices: MEC for URLLC at Edge Cloud, Centralized Control, Single vO-DU

# 1656 In Scenario C.1, all O-CU control is placed in the Regional Cloud, and there is a single vO-DU for all Network Slices.

# 1657 Only the placement of the vO-CU-CP differs, depending on the network slice. Below is the diagram of this scenario,
1658 using the common diagram conventions of all scenarios.

# 1661 Figure 33: Scenario C.1

# 1662 Below is a summary of the cardinality and the distance/delay requirements assumed for this scenario. The URLLC user
1663 plane requirements are what drive the placement of the vO-CU-UP function to be in the Edge cloud.

# 1664 Table 4: Cardinality and Delay Performance for Scenario C.1
Attribute RIC – O-CU O-CU – O-DU O-DU – O-RU/RU Example Cardinality L= 1 M=320 N=100 x )e mMTC NA 625 μ (125 km) 100 μ (20 km) ac n y Ma ts id eMBB NA 625 μ (125 km) 100 μ (20 km) a le y a ( URLLC (user/control) NA 100 μ (20 km)/625 μ (125 100 μ (20 km) Dw 1- km)

# 1666 DU and O-RU/RU is necessary.
Scenario C.2, and Use Case and Drivers

# 1668 This is a second variation of Scenario C, which utilizes the same method of placing some vO-CU user plane functionality
1669 in the Edge Cloud, and some in the Regional Cloud. However, instead of having one vO-DU for all network slices, there 1670 are different vO-DU instances in the Edge Cloud.

# 1671 It is driven by factors including the following two use cases:

# 1672 • One driver is RAN (O-RU) sharing among operators. In this use case, any operator can flexibly launch vO-CU
1673 and vO-DU instances at Edge or Regional Cloud site. For example, as shown in Figure 34, Operator #1 wants 1674 to launch the vO-CU1 instance in the Regional Cloud, and the vO-DU1 instance at subtending Edge Cloud sites.

# 1675 On the other hand, Operator #2 wants to install both the vO-CU2 and vO-DU2 instances at the same Regional

# 1676 Cloud site. Note that both operators will share the O-RU).

# 1677 • Another driver is that, even within a single operator, that operator can customize scheduler functions depending
1678 on the network slice types and can place the vO-CU and vO-DU instances depending on the network slice types.

# 1679 For example, an operator may launch both vO-CU and vO-DU at the edge cloud site (see Operator #2 below) to 1680 provide a URLLC service.

# 1682 Figure 34: Treatment of Network Slice: MEC for URLLC at Edge Cloud, Separate vO-DUs

# 1683 The multi-Operator use case has the following pros and cons:

# 1684 Pros:

# 1685 • O-RU sharing can reduce TCO

# 1686 • Flexible CU/DU location allows deployments to consider not only service requirements but also limitations of 1687 space or power in each site

# 1688 Cons:

# 1689 • Allowing multiple operators to share O-RU resources is expected to require changes to the Open Fronthaul
1690 interface (especially the handshake among more than one vO-DU and a given O-RU).

# 1691 • This change seems likely to have M-plane specification impact. Therefore, this approach would need O-RAN
1692 buy-in and approval.

# 1693 Figure 35 below illustrates how different Component Carriers can be allocated to different operators, at the same O-RU
1694 at the same time. Note that some updates of not only M-plane but also CUS-plane specifications will be required when 1695 considering frequency resource sharing among DUs.

# 1697 Figure 35: Single O-RU Being Shared by More than One Operator

# 1698 The diagram of how Network Functions map to Networks Elements for Scenario C.2 is shown below.

# 1701 Figure 36: Scenario C.2

# 1702 The performance requirements are the same as those discussed earlier for Scenario C.1 in Section 6.3.2.

# 1704 DU and O-RU/RU is necessary.

## 6.4 Scenario D

# 1706 This scenario is a variation on Scenario C, but in this case the O-DU functionality is supported by an O-RAN Physical

# 1707 NF rather than an O-Cloud.

# 1708 The general assumption is that Scenario D has the same use cases and performance requirements as Scenario C, and the 1709 primary difference is in the business decision of how the O-RAN Physical NF based solution compares with the O-RAN
1710 compliant O-Cloud solution. Implementation considerations (discussed in Section 5.1) could lead a carrier to decide that 1711 an acceptable O-Cloud solution is not available in a deployment’s timeframe.

# 1714 Figure 37: Scenario D

# 1716 DU and O-RU/RU is necessary.

## 6.5 Scenario E

# 1720 Cloud, which has acceleration hardware if required by either or both the O-RU and O-DU.

# 1721 Note, this seems to be a future scenario, and is not part of our initial focus.

# 1723 Figure 38: Scenario E
Key Use Cases and Drivers

# 1725 Because the O-DU and O-RU are implemented in the same O-Cloud in this Scenario, it seems that the O-DU
1726 implementation must meet the environmental and accessibility requirements typically associated with an O-RU.

# 1727 Therefore, an indoor use case seems most appropriate.
Scenario E.1 vO-DU with O-RU

# 1729 For Macrocell deployment with the Open Hardware approach that is used in WG7, the O-DU 7-2 of O-RAN WG7

# 1732 RUs implemented with the Open HW design, possibly but not necessarily in the same chassis.

# 1735 Figure 39: Scenario E.1

# 1737 DU and O-RU/RU is necessary.

## 6.6 Scenario F

# 1740 This is a variation on Scenario E in which the O-DU and O-RU are both virtualized, but in different O-Clouds. This means
1741 that:

# 1742 • The O-DU function can be placed in a more convenient location in terms of accessibility for maintenance and 1743 upgrades.

# 1744 • The O-DU function can be placed in an environment that is semi-controlled or controlled, which reduces some
1745 of the implementation complexity.

# 1749 Figure 40: Scenario F
Key Use Cases and Drivers

# 1751 Because this assumes that the O-RU is virtualized, this is a future use case.

# 1752 This use case seems to be better suited for outdoor deployments (e.g., pole mounted) than Scenario E.

# 1754 DU and O-RU is necessary.

## 6.7 Scenarios of Initial Interest

# 1756 More scenarios have been identified than can be addressed in the initial release of this document. Scenario B has been
1757 selected as the one to address initially, and to be the subject of detailed treatment in a Scenario document (refer back to

# 1758 Figure 1). Other scenarios are expected to be addressed in later work.

# 7 Appendix A (informative): Extensions to Current
Deployment Scenarios to Include NSA

# 1762 In this appendix, some extensions to (some of) the current deployment scenarios are proposed with the aim of introducing

# 1763 Non-Standalone (NSA) in the pictures, consistently with the scope O-RAN cloud architecture. These extensions will be
1764 the basis of the discussion for next version of the present document. In the following charts the subscript ‘N’ is indicating 1765 blocks related to NR, while the subscript ‘E’ is indicating blocks related to E-UTRA.8 For E-UTRA, the W1 interface is 1766 indicated. Its definition is ongoing in a 3GPP work item. No UPF or MEC blocks are explicitly indicated in the figures of this appendix, as the focus of this appendix is on the radio part.

# 1770 Figure 41: Scenario A, Including NSA

## 7.2 Scenario B

# 1772 Editor’s Note: Scenario B, Including NSA has been incorporated into 6.2.

## 7.3 Scenario C

# 1776 Figure 42: Scenario C, Including NSA

## 7.4 Scenario C.2

# 1778 The scenario addresses both the single and multi-operator cases. To reduce the complexity in the figure the multi operator
1779 case is considered, so no X2/Xn interface is present between CU 1 and CU 2 or between CU 1 and CU 2.

# N E E N

# 1782 Figure 43: Scenario C.2, Including NSA

## 7.5 Scenario D

# 1786 Figure 44: Scenario D, Including NSA
Annex (Informative): Change History Date Revision Description 2019.01.18 V0000 Template with initial scenarios.

### 2019.01.29 V00.00 Updates to terminology, miscellaneous other updates

### 2019.02.07 V00.00 More definitions in 2.1, New Sec 4 on Overall Architecture,
expansion/ updates of sec 5 Profiles, added Sec 6 OAM placeholder.

### 2019.03.18 V00.00 Many additions in content and section structure.

### 2019.04.01 V00.00 Some restructuring and combining of early sections, and more
discussion on scope and context. Addition of implementation consideration section, including performance. Added optional Fronthaul GW. Provided framework discussion in each scenario’s subsection. Other updates.

### 2019.04.10 V00.00 Updates to include comments before April 11 review.
Comments from RaviKanth (Aricent), Pasi (Red Hat), Shinobu (KDDI), and Lyndon (Ciena).

### 2019.04.15 V00.00 Updates to include some updates from comments from April 11
review.

### 2019.04.24 V00.00 Updates of diagrams to address comments, additional figures on scope, and other changes to address April 11 review comments.

### 2019.05.01 V00.00 Updates to diagrams for Scenarios A and B. Modifications per
KDDI regarding C.2.

### 2019.05.12 V00.00 Updates based on meeting discussions, subsection additions
based on proposals.

### 2019.05.15 V00.00 Clean-up in preparation of creating a baseline document –
marking of many comments as done, adding editor notes where needed, and other clarifications.

### 2019.05.20 V00.00 Continued clean-up in preparation of a baseline.

### 2019.05.29 V00.00 Continued clean-up in preparation of a baseline.

### 2019.06.04 V00.00 Major additions to the Cloud requirements in section 5.4 and Appendix B by Wind River, plus updates to the Fronthaul
section from China Mobile. Various additional minor updates.

### 2019.06.13 V00.01 This is the same as V00.00.13, but with renumbering to indicate
this is the initial baseline for comment, V00.01.00

### 2019.06.14 V00.01 This includes updates from CRs discussed and agreed to on the June 13 call:
- Wind River contributions on adding a figure for NUMA
illustration and a major enhancement of Sec 9.1 on cache
- AT&T contribution to add material on centralization of O-
DU/O-CU resources, to Sections 5.1 and 6.2
- Update of figures to address Open Fronthaul comments
(discussed June 6)

### 2019.07.05 V00.01 Updates to address several CRs:
- Multiple editorial items:
o Draft text to address 5G/4G scope in Sec 1.2 – further discussion via separate CR o Statement in 5.2 about performance to focus on delay o Statement in 5.7 about transport o 5.8; update of Figure 13 to indicate cloud locations. Added MEC text that to address MEC comment during call. o Delay and loss table updates in 6, and statement in 5.2
- Former 9.1 and 9.3 sections of Appendix B (on cache and
storage details) will be transferred to Tong’s document (Reference Design).
- Update the O-DU pooling analysis in Section 5.1.3.

### 2019.07.18 V00.01 Updates to address multiple CRs, through July 18:
- Address NSA aspects in scope
- Addition of 5.3 (Acceleration)
- Removal of Scale up/down appendix, and note for future
study
- Update of delay figure in 5.2.
- Update of Figure 4
- Replacement of Zbox concept with O-Cloud, and all
related updates.

### 2019.08.02 V00.01 Updates to address multiple CRs, discussed on Aug 1:
- Update Section 5.6, merge in sec 7, explain some
fundamental operations concepts.
- Update the sync section to point to work in other WGs,
and say that text will wait until CAD version 2.
- Update the delay section (5.2.1)
- Remove notes that refer to items that will not receive
contributions in version 1. Remove comments that are no longer relevant.
- Remove Appendix A

### 2019.08.09 V00.01 Updates to address multiple CRs and DT review comments,
discussed on Aug 8.
- Update 5.2.1 to address non-optimal fronthaul, and to
correct some equations
- Update 5.6 to add a figure showing the O1* interface
- Addressed a range of comments by DT, some editorial,
some more involved.

### 2019.08.16 V00.01 Updates to address multiple CRs and DT review comments,
discussed on Aug 15.
- Updates to address Ericsson’s comments
- Update to address DT’s request to define vO-DU tile
- Update of the Cloud Considerations section (5.4), mostly
for restructuring to remove duplication, but to also add material for VMs or Containers where necessary to provide balanced coverage.
- Additional updates: Many resolved and obsolete Word
comments have been removed in anticipation of finalization.
- References to documents that are not finalized have been
removed.

### 2019.08.23 V00.01 Updates to reflect:
- Updates of the O-DU pooling section based on Aug 20
discussion
- Management section updates are to address comments
made on Aug 15 discussion, particularly regarding the use of the term domain manager and its role in an ME, and the location of O1 terminations
- Edits to remove references to O-RAN WGs, and make
updates of the revision history.
- Addition of standard O-RAN Annex ZZZ

### 2019.08.26 V00.01 • Clean up of references and cross references to them
- Removed Word comments
- Removed cardinality questions in Scenarios A (removed
6.1.1) and Scenario B

### 2019.08.26 V00.01 Final minor comments during Aug 27 WG6 call, in preparation
for vote.

### 2020.01.17 V01.00 Merged the following CRs, but with • ATT-2019-11-19 CADS-C CR ATT-CAD-010
acceleration 01.00.00
- WRS 2019-12-04 CAD-C 01.00.00 rev 1

### 2020.02.09 V01.00 Simplified 5.6.
- Removed 5.6.1, 5.6.2 – replaced it with pointers to O1,
and O2 specification.
- Incorporated NVD comments on 5.3 and 5.4 addressing
inline acceleration as an option

### 2020.03.03 V01.00 • Updated 4, 4.1 to reflect the latest O-RAN architecture
- Incorporated comments on 5.6 to include O1, O2
references.
- Updated 4.3 with O-Cloud description and definitions
of key components of O-Cloud
- Updated 5.3, Figure 15 to reflect O-Cloud reference
figure in 4.3

### 2020.03.09 V01.00 • Various minor editorial modifications, take them as suggestions for better readability…

### 2020.03.10 V01.05 • Incorporated Ericsson comments provided on v01.00.02
- Updated 1.1 to include O-RAN Architecture description
- Added definitions for O-RAN Physical NF, O-RAN
Cloudified NF

### 2020.03.14 V01.06 Minor editorial modifications, make this version ready
for WG6 internal review and voting

### 2020.03.20 V02.00 Minor editorial, make this version ready for TSC
review and voting

### 2020.07.04 V02.01 Incorporated the following CRs:
- TIM.AO-2020.05.18-WG6-CR-0001-CADS Scenario B
Extension-v05
- WRS-2020-04-24 CAD-v02.00 CR for PTP
Notifications v05

### 2020.07.06 V02.01 Added architecture of O-Cloud Resource Pool

### 2020.07.14 V02.01 Addressed minor editorial comments received, making it ready
for TSC review and voting

### 2021.07.01 V02.02 Incorporated the following CRS:
- DIS-2020-08-03 CAD-v02.01 CR for OMAC v02
- WRS-2020-09-15 CAD 2.01 CR for LLS-C1 Time
Sync Requirements
- JNPR-2021.05.13-WG6-CR-0001-
VLAN_Based_Networking-v04 Editorial changes:
- Rename references to O-vDU as vO-DU

### 2021.07.15 V02.02 Fixed broken reference for O-RAN WG4, Control, User and Synchronization Plane Specification.

### 2022.03.31 V03.00 Merged three CRs
1. Clarification about synchronization requirements of CAD scenarios 2. O-Cloud Gateway 3. Terminology Update

### 2022.03.31 V03.01 Corrections from comment wiki

### 2022.04.05 V3.02 Merged CR
O-Cloud API

### 2022.04.05 V3.03 Per discussion on approval call, removed version numbers for references to O-RAN’s own documents. References are just to
whatever the latest version is.

### 2022.07.25 V4.00 Merged two CRs
1. PTP Support over UDP 2. IMS Provisioning CADS Concepts update

### 2023.07.14 V05.00.01 Merged four CRs
1. Tiered Clouds Clarification 2. Change “Core Cloud” to “Central Cloud” 3. Terminology Alignment 4. Clarification of SMO and O-Cloud responsibilities

### 2023.11.10 V05.00.02 Merged one CR
1. Networking concepts related updates to CADS Accepted Microsoft Word grammar recommendations on use or non-use of commas, semicolons and hyphens where the appeared to be correct

### 2024.03.18 V6.00.01 Merged one CR
1. CADS O-Cloud capabilities definition

### 2024.07.01 V08.00 Merged one CR
1. O-Cloud Networking Terminology Alignment 2. Clarification of descriptions of Fronthaul Gateway and Fronthaul Multiplexer

### 2024.11.20 V08.01 Merged one CR
1. Clarify the network to which O-Cloud connects


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG6.CLOUD-REF-v02.00 (2).md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG6.CLOUD-REF-v02.00 Technical Specification"
---

### 2020.01.31 Baseline Lucian Suciu (Orange) Integrated contributions from Intel and Mavenir,
implemented agreed resolutions for several comments 01.00.01 received from RH, ERI, NVD (a few are still open…), generated the Baseline document

### 2020.02.12 Baseline Tong Li (Lenovo) Revision based on WG6 group discussion and various
edits 01.00.02

### 2020.02.12 Baseline Arjun Nanjundappa Time Synchronization Requirements and Figure Caption

### 01.00.03 (Mavenir) update

### 2020.02.26 Baseline- Lopamudra Kundu (Nvidia) Revised section 4.3.2, appended lookaside and in-line
v01.00.05 acceleration dataflows and associated Fig. in section 4.3.1, added/revised figs. in section 5.1.6.2 related to GPU based inline PHY acceleration reference design and high-level edge cloud platform for inline acceleration, provided additional Kubernetes plugins in section 5.2.3.

### 2020.03.04 Baseline- Arjun Nanjundappa Included both In-line and Look-aside acceleration
v01.00.07 (Mavenir) diagrams for O-DU and Accelerators to other nodes have been kept generic for section 4.3.2.

### 2020.03.12 Baseline- Marge Hillis (Nokia), Various edits.
v01.00.11 Lopamudra Kundu (Nvidia), Tong Li (Lenovo), Arjun Nanjundappa (Mavenir), Niall Power (Intel), Lucian Suciu (Orange), Guy Turgeon (Wind River), Xiaogang Yan (China Mobile), Tao Yang (China Telecom)

### 2020.03.17 V00.16 Lenovo, Red Hat, Orange Time Sync modifications, minor editorial, make this
version ready for WG6 internal review and voting

### 2020.03.19 V00.17 Nokia, Red Hat Time Sync section modifications proposal from Nokia
(mostly editorial), and clarifications from Red Hat.

### 2020.03.20 V01.00 Version ready for TSC review and voting

### 2020.07.10 V01.01 Udi Schwager (Wind River) Added support for container.d

### 2020.07.10 V01.01 Niall Power (Intel) Added reference accelerator cards for acceleration

### 2020.07.10 V01.01 Lopamudra Kundu (Nvidia) Added reference design for edge cloud server with GPU
based acceleration

### 2020.09.01 V01.01.01 KDDI Initial version applied changes to some text and figures

### 2020.09.30 V01.01.01 Lucian Suciu (Orange) Merged KDDI version with latest Cloud Ref. Design
spec, also handled the comments received from Ericsson, CMCC and Nvidia

### 2020.10.21 V01.01.01 Lucian Suciu (Orange) Incorporated the CR on Time Sync, and the input from CTC, KDDI, Dell

### 2020.11.05 V02.00 Version ready for WG6 internal review and voting
Table of Contents Table of Figures Table of Tables Chapter 1 Introductory Material Scope

# 116 This Technical Specification has been produced by the O-RAN ALLIANCE.

# 117 The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within O-RAN and may change following formal

# 119 O-RAN with an identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as follows:

# 120 Release x.y.z
121 where: 122 x the first digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical enhancements, corrections, updates, 123 etc. (the initial approved document will have x=01). 124 y the second digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been incorporated in the document. 125 z the third digit included only in working versions of the document indicating incremental changes during the 126 editing process.

# 127 The present document focuses on cloud deployment scenario B and C (including C.1 and C.2), as defined in the O-RAN

# 128 WG6 Cloud Architecture document [1], and specifies requirements and reference designs for the cloud platform hardware
129 and software. References

# 131 The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this text, constitute provisions of this
132 specification. 133 [1] O-RAN WG6, Cloud Architecture and Deployment Scenarios for O-RAN Virtualized RAN. 134 [2] O-RAN WG4, Control, User and Synchronization Plane Specification. 135 [3] GR-63-CORE for Network Switching Systems (NEBS) Seismic Rated Enclosures, Telecordia. 136 [4] GR-1089-CORE Electromagnetic Compatibility and Electrical Safety, Telcordia. 137 [5] OTII Server Technical Specification, 2019. 138 [6] OCP openEDGE Project, https://www.opencompute.org/wiki/Telcos/openEDGE. 139 [7] ETSI EN300 019-1-3 Class 3.2 Equipment Engineering (EE) Environmental Conditions and Environmental Tests 140 for Telecommunications Equipment Part 1-3: Classification of Environmental Conditions Stationary Use at

# 141 Weather-protected Locations.
142 [8] ETSI EN300386 (v1.6.1) Terrestrial Trunked Radio (TETRA); Direct Mode Operation (DMO); Part 6: Security 143 [9] FCC CFR47 15 (class A), FCC, Rules and Regulations for Title 47 Telecommunications. 144 [10] CISPR 22/32 (Class A) International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) International Special Committee on

# 145 Radio Interference, Radiated Emission Limits.
146 [11] CISPR 24, IEC Information Technology Equipment – Immunity Characteristics. 147 [12] TEC/EMI/TEL-001/01/FEB-09 – Information Technology Equipment. 148 [13] TEC/IR/SWN-2MB/07/MAR-10 – Information Technology Equipment. 149 [14] IEC 62368-1:2014, Safety Standard for Information Technology Equipment and Audio Video Equipment. 150 [15] O-RAN WG4 Management Plane Specification. 151 [16] 3GPP TS 23.501: “System architecture for the 5G System (5GS)”. 152 [17] O-RAN WG8, Base Station O-DU and O-CU Software Architecture and APIs. 153 [18] O-RAN Infrastructure Project, https://wiki.o-ran-sc.org/display/IN/Infrastructure+Home. Abbreviations

# 155 For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply.

# 156 AAL Acceleration Abstraction Layer

# 157 API Application Programming Interface

# 158 ASIC Application-specific Integrated Circuit

# 159 BIOS Basic Input Output System

# 160 BBU Base Band Unit

# 161 CNF Containerized Network Function

# 162 CPU Central Processing Unit

# 163 DSP Digital Signal Processing

# 164 FPGA Field Programmable Gate Array

# 165 DPDK Data Plane Development Kit
166 eNB eNodeB (applies to LTE)

# 167 EPA Enhanced Platform Awareness

# 168 FEC Forward Error Correcting

# 169 FFS For Further Study

# 170 FFT Fast Fourier Transform

# 171 FHGW Front-haul Gateway

# 172 FTS Full Timing Support
173 gNB gNodeB (applies to NR)

# 174 GNSS Global Navigation Satellite System

# 175 GPU Graphics Processing Unit

# 176 HA High Availability

# 177 HW Hardware

# 178 LLS-C3 Lower Layer Split Configuration 3

# 179 NFV Network Functions Virtualization

# 180 NFVI Network Functions Virtualization Infrastructure

# 181 NIC Network Interface Card

# 182 NSA Non-standalone

# 183 NUMA Non-uniform Memory Access

# 184 O-CU O-RAN Centralized Unit

# 185 O-DU O-RAN Distributed Unit

# 186 O-RU O-RAN Radio Unit

# 187 OS Operating System

# 188 PHC PTP Hardware Clock

# 189 PIM Physical Infrastructure Manager

# 190 PRACH Physical Random Access Channel

# 191 PRTC Primary Reference Time Clock

# 192 PSU Power Supply Unit

# 193 PTP Precision Time Protocol

# 194 PTS Partial Timing Support

# 195 RAID Redundant Array of Inexpensive Disks

# 196 RIC RAN Intelligent Controller

# 197 RT Real-time

# 198 SA Standalone

# 199 SMO Service Management and Orchestration

# 200 SR-IOV Single Root I/O Virtualization

# 201 SW Software

# 202 T-BC Telecom Boundary Clock

# 203 T-GM Telecom Grand Master

# 204 T-TSC Telecom Time Slave Clock

# 205 UEFI Unified Extensible Firmware Interface
206 vBBU Virtual Baseband Unit

# 207 VF Virtual Function

# 208 VIM Virtualized Infrastructure Manager

# 209 VM Virtual Machine

# 210 VNF Virtualized Network Function
Chapter 2 Deployment Scenarios

# 216 Cloud Architecture document [1] are FFS.

# 217 O-Clouds are deployed at both regional and edge locations. At a given location, the edge O-Cloud can scale from a single
218 server to a clustered configuration with possibly hundreds of servers. This version of the document focuses on a container- 219 based cloud platform (see Ch.5.2 for a reference design example) and it will address VM-based designs in a future release.

# 220 For the time synchronization aspects, this version of the document focuses on the LLS-C3 configuration [2], i.e., O-DU
221 and O-RU are synchronized from the fronthaul network (see Ch.5.3 for a reference design example).

# 222 The terms, vO-CU and vO-DU, represent virtualized or containerized O-CU and O-DU, and are used interchangeably
223 with O-CU and O-DU in this document. The optional use of a Front-haul Gateway (FHGW) in the architecture allows 224 significant savings in providing transport between the O-RU and O-DU functionalities. Scenario B

# 227 O-CU and O-DU functions are virtualized or containerized on an edge O-Cloud that typically resides at a different location.

# 228 The interface that the near-RT RIC uses between the regional O-Cloud and the edge O-Cloud is E2. Interfaces between
229 the O-CU and O-DU managed functions are either within the same single managed element, or among multiple managed 230 elements within the same edge O-Cloud.

# 232 Figure 2-1. Cloud deployment scenario B.

# 233 This scenario is to support deployments in locations with limited remote front-haul capacity and a set of O-RUs spread
234 out in a limited area, supported by pooled vO-CU/vO-DU functionality while still meeting the O-DU latency requirements.

# 235 The optional use of a Front-haul Gateway (FHGW) in the architecture allows significant savings in providing transport
236 between the O-RU and vO-DU functionalities.

# 237 Figure 2-2 shows the O-Cloud high-level deployment diagram. One vO-CU and one vO-DU together form a virtual BBU

# 239 O-RUs per near-RT RIC, and therefore L could easily exceed 100.

# 241 Figure 2-2. Scenario B – O-Cloud high-level deployment diagram.
Scenario C

# 243 Figure 2-3 illustrates scenario C, where the near-RT RIC and the vO-CU functions are virtualized or containerized on a 244 regional O-Cloud, and the O-DU function is virtualized or containerized on an edge O-Cloud that typically resides at a
245 different location.

# 246 The interfaces that the near-RT RIC and O-CU use between the regional O-Cloud and the edge O-Cloud are E2 and,
247 respectively, F1 (i.e., F1-c and F1-u). Interfaces between the near-RT RIC and O-CU managed functions are either within 248 the same single managed element, or among multiple managed elements within the same regional O-Cloud.

# 250 Figure 2-3. Cloud deployment scenario C.

# 251 This scenario is to support deployments in locations with limited remote front-haul capacity and a set of O-RUs spread
252 out in a small area that restricts the number of O-RUs that can be pooled while still meeting the O-DU latency requirements.

# 253 The O-CU function is further pooled to increase the efficiency of the hardware platform which it shares with the near-RT

# 254 RIC function.

# 255 Figure 2-4 shows the O-Cloud high-level deployment diagram. The edge O-Cloud is expected to connect to N O-RUs

# 256 (typically up to 64, see [1]). This deployment should support tens of thousands of O-RUs per near-RT RIC, and therefore

# 257 M could easily exceed 100.

# 259 Figure 2-4. Scenario C – O-Cloud high-level deployment diagram.
Scenario C.1

# 261 This is a variation of Scenario C, driven by the fact that different types of traffic (network slices) have different latency
262 requirements. In particular, URLLC has more demanding user-plane latency requirements, and Figure 2-5 below shows 263 how the vO-CU User Plane (vO-CU-UP) could be terminated in different places for different network slices. Below, 264 network slice 3 is terminated in the edge O-Cloud. This scenario is also suitable in case there is not enough space or power 265 supply to install all vO-CUs and vO-DUs in one edge O-Cloud.

# 267 Figure 2-5. Treatment of Network Slice: MEC for URLLC at Edge Cloud, Centralized Control, Single vO-DUs

# 268 In Scenario C.1, all O-CU control is placed in the regional O-Cloud, and there is a single vO-DU for all network slices.

# 269 Only the placement of the vO-CU-UP differs, depending on the network slice. The diagram of how network functions
270 map to network elements for scenario C.1 is shown in Figure 2-6 (please note that in Scenario C.1, the E1 interface 271 between CU-CP and CU-UP is explicitly used, unlike in Scenario C or C.2).

# 273 Figure 2-6. Cloud deployment scenario C.1.

# 274 Table 2-1 is a summary of the cardinality and the distance/delay requirements assumed for this scenario. The URLLC
275 user plane requirements are what drive the placement of the vO-CU-UP function to be in the edge O-Cloud.

# 276 Table 2-1. Cardinality and Delay Performance for Scenario C.1
Attribute RIC – O-CU O-CU – O-DU O-DU – O-RU/RU Example Cardinality L= 1 M=320 N=100 x e) mMTC NA 625 μs (125 km) 100 μs (20 km) an c M y di st a eMBB NA 625 μs (125 km) 100 μs (20 km) D el a w a y ( URLLC (user/control) NA 100 μs (20 km)/625 μs (125 100 μs (20 km) 1- km) Scenario C.2

# 278 This is a second variation of Scenario C, which utilizes the same method of placing some vO-CU user plane functionality
279 in the edge O-Cloud, and some in the regional O-Cloud. However, instead of having one vO-DU for all network slices, 280 there are different vO-DU instances in the edge O-Cloud.

# 281 It is driven by factors including the following two use cases:

# 282  One driver is RAN (O-RU) sharing among operators. In this use case, any operator can flexibly launch vO-CU
283 and vO-DU instances at edge or regional O-Cloud site. For example, as shown in Figure 2-7, Operator #1 wants 284 to launch the vO-CU1 instance in the regional O-Cloud, and the vO-DU1 instance at subtending edge O-Cloud 285 sites. On the other hand, Operator #2 wants to install both the vO-CU2 and vO-DU2 instances at the same 286 regional O-Cloud site. Note that both operators will share the O-RU.

# 287  Another driver is that, even within a single operator, that operator can customize scheduler functions depending
288 on the network slice types, and can place the vO-CU and vO-DU instances depending on the network slice types.

# 289 For example, an operator may launch both vO-CU and vO-DU at the edge O-Cloud site (see Operator #2 below)
290 to provide a URLLC service.

# 292 Figure 2-7. Treatment of Network Slice: MEC for URLLC at Edge Cloud, Separate vO-DUs

# 293 The diagram of how network functions map to network elements for scenario C.2 is shown in Figure 2-8.

# 295 Figure 2-8. Cloud deployment scenario C.2.

# 296 The performance requirements are the same as those discussed earlier for Scenario C.1 in Section 2.2.1, with one
297 exception, namely, for the URLLC slice in Scenario C.2 the CU-CP and CU-UP delays are the same (i.e., they are 298 collocated on the edge cloud in this particular example). Chapter 3 Operator Requirements Typical Use Cases

# 302 Table 3-1 to Table 3-7.
Carrier Type Component Carrier Number of Layers Number of Total Aggregated Bandwidth (Downlink) Aggregated Carriers Bandwidth LTE 20 MHz 4 layers 5 carriers 400 MHz NR Sub-6 GHz 20 MHz 16 layers 5 carriers 1600 MHz mmWave 100 MHz 2 layers 8 carriers 1600 MHz

# 303 Table 3-1. AT&T Carrier aggregation requirements.
Carrier Type Component Carrier Number of Layers Number of Total Aggregated Bandwidth Aggregated Carriers Bandwidth LTE 5-20 MHz 2, 4 layers 3-5 carriers 80-400 MHz NR Sub-6 GHz 20-100 MHz 4 - 16 layers 1-3 carriers Up to 2240 MHz mmWave FFS FFS FFS FFS

# 305 Table 3-2. Deutsche Telekom carrier aggregation requirements.
Carrier Type Component Carrier Number of Layers Number of Total Aggregated Bandwidth Aggregated Carriers Bandwidth LTE 20 MHz 4 layers 4 carriers 320 MHz NR Sub-6 GHz 100 MHz 8 or 16 layers 1 carrier Up to 1600 MHz mmWave FFS FFS FFS FFS

# 307 Table 3-3. Orange carrier aggregation requirements.
Carrier Type Component Carrier Number of Layers Number of Total Aggregated Bandwidth (Downlink) Aggregated Carriers Bandwidth LTE 5-20 MHz 4 layers 3-5 carriers Up to 400 MHz NR Sub-6 GHz 100 MHz 8 - 16 layers 2 carriers Up to 3200 MHz mmWave 100 MHz 2 layers 4 carriers 800 MHz

# 309 Table 3-4. KDDI carrier aggregation requirements.
Carrier Type Component Carrier Number of Layers Number of Total Aggregated Bandwidth (Downlink) Aggregated Carriers Bandwidth LTE 10MHz, 20MHz 2, 4 2, 3, 4 carriers 30~80MHz NR Sub-6 GHz 30MHz, 60MHz, 2, 4 2 carriers 130~200MHz 100MHz mmWave FFS FFS FFS FFS

# 311 Table 3-5. CMCC carrier aggregation requirements.
Carrier Type Component Carrier Number of Layers Number of Total Aggregated Bandwidth (Downlink) Aggregated Carriers Bandwidth LTE 5MHz, 10MHz, 2 2, 3 carriers Up to 50MHz 15MHz, 20MHz NR Sub-6 GHz 40MHz, 50MHz, 2, 4 2 , 3 carriers Up to 300MHz 55MHz, 100MHz mmWave FFS FFS FFS FFS

# 313 Table 3-6. CTC carrier aggregation requirements.
Active UEs (95th percentile) supported per macro sub-6 GHz TRP 256 (AT&T, others FFS) Active UEs (95th percentile) supported per mmWave TRP 64 (AT&T, others FFS) Carrier capacity (MHz) per O-DU pool Up to 56,000 MHz (AT&T, others FFS) O-DU pooling model Pooled centralization [1] Minimum number of TRPs that an O-DU pool supports 32 (AT&T and Orange, others FFS) Fronthaul interface to O-DU O-RAN 7.2x, with low phy in O-RU or FHGW Physical interface to the cloud platform supporting O-DU (e.g., At least 2x 25Gbps (or higher depending on site from FHGW) configuration) aggregated links to minimize switching latency (2x is for redundancy purposes).

# 315 Table 3-7. BBU pooling requirements.
Cloud Deployment Requirements

# 317 As Figure 2-1 shows, deployment of a cloud platform occurs in two locations: regional and edge clouds. The physical
318 environment of a regional cloud is typically a modern data center, hosting standard server racks with a 19-inch wide rack 319 enclosure, 42U height, and external depth between 1 and 1.2 meters. In this environment, the cloud platform hardware 320 can use standard rack-mount servers and switches, and does not impose special requirements on the hardware form factors.

# 321 The edge cloud often resides in a traditional telecommunications equipment room with limited space, cooling capacity,
322 floor loading, and so forth. The limitations can impose special requirements on the cloud platform hardware that may 323 require telecommunications standard certifications, such as the Network Equipment Building System (NEBS) 324 requirements found in GR-63-CORE [3] and GR-1089-CORE [4]. For example, the Open Telecom IT Infrastructure

# 325 (OTII) Project specifies a 2U rack server with depth less than 450 mm [5][3]. In addition, the Open Compute Project

# 326 (OCP) operates an openEDGE project [6], which specifies a compact cloud platform that has the extended environmental
327 requirements often needed in edge deployments. Regional Cloud

# 329 A regional cloud hosts the near-RT RIC, which includes Radio Connection Management, Mobility Management, QoS

# 330 Management, Interference Management, Radio-Network Information Base, and possibly 3rd-party applications. A typical
331 regional cloud has the following characteristics:

# 332  Standard Internet Data Center (IDC) environment;

# 333  At least one standard 19-inch rack with a top-of-rack (TOR) switch and five servers;

# 334  Highly available cloud platform software;

# 335  Highly available network topology;

# 336  Highly available storage system in the form of traditional storage area network (SAN), software-defined storage

# 337 (SDS), or combination of the two.

# 338 In Scenario C (and its variants C.1/C.2), a regional cloud will also host the O-CU functions.
Edge Cloud

# 340 The edge cloud is often deployed in a relatively rough physical environment with typical characteristics in Table 3-8.
Rack Form Factors 19-inch width, 600mm depth Temperature Range Long-term: -5°C to 45°C (ETSI EN300 019-1-3 Class 3.2 [7]) Short-term: -5°C to 55°C (GR-63-CORE [3]) Humidity Operating humidity: 5% to 95% Long-term: 5% to 85% Short-term: 5% to 90% EMC EN300386 (v1.6.1) [8] FCC CFR47 15 (class A) [9], CISPR 22/32 (class A) [10], CISPR 24 [11] TEC/EMI/TEL-001/01/FEB-09 [12] and TEC/IR/SWN-2MB/07/MAR-10 [13] GR-1089-CORE [4] Equipment Center Class A (Telecom center); Class B (Non-telecom center) Seismic GR-63-CORE (Zone 4) [3] Safety IEC 62368-1:2014 [14] GR-63-CORE (Electrical safety, grounding and bonding) [3] Acoustic Noise GR-63-CORE (equipment room criteria) [3] Fire Resistance GR-63-CORE (shelf level criteria) [3] Power Supply 208V AC, 220V AC, or -48V DC (-60V DC in Germany)

# 341 Table 3-8. Edge cloud environmental characteristics.
Chapter 4 O-Cloud Requirements

# 343 This chapter describes design requirements for the O-Cloud. While most requirements apply to both the regional and edge

# 344 O-Clouds, the edge O-Cloud may impose unique requirements, e.g., hardware accelerators, which will be noted
345 specifically. In addition, depending on the implementation choices for O-CU, O-DU, and near-RT RIC, the O-Cloud 346 needs to provide support for virtual machines or containers. O-Cloud Architectural Components and Requirements

# 349 Figure 4-1. Architecture component requirements for the cloud platform.

# 350 Figure 4-1depicts the high-level architecture components for deploying VM/container-based O-RAN functions in the 351 regional and edge O-Clouds.

# 352 The Virtualized/Containerized O-RAN Functions include the O-DU, O-CU and other workloads deployed on the O-Cloud
353 via the O2 interface.

# 355 Kubernetes for container deployments.

# 356 The Cloud Platform Management represents the O-Cloud infrastructure management functions required for life cycle
357 management, high availability, fault management and configuration of the O-Cloud platform.

# 358 The Cloud Platform Runtime represents the additional cloud platform run-time capabilities required to host O-RAN
359 functions as compared to 5G core network functions. Hardware Requirements

# 361 Table 4-1 shows requirements for the cloud platform hardware.
Components Description Server  Regional cloud: standard COTS server  Edge cloud: depth ≤ 450mm, height ≤ 2RU, width ≤ 19in  Minimum 16-core CPU at 2.2 GHz base frequency and 128 GB DDR4  At least 2x 25GbE ports for front-haul interface (or higher, depending on site), 2x 10GbE ports for backhaul interface, and 1x 1GbE out-of-band management port  SR-IOV-capable NICs with network link aggregation enabled  For single-socket, at least 3 PCI-E slots for 3x HHHL or 1x FHFL + 2x HHHL cards; for dual-socket, at least 4 slots for 4x HHHL or 1x FHFL DW + 3x LP cards  All hard disk drives require hot-pluggable  Management interfaces support IPMI, SNMP, and Redfish (preferred)  UEFI secure boot enabled Hardware Accelerator  Required for O-DU in the edge cloud in forms such as FPGA, ASIC, and GPU  At least 2 ports at 10 or 25 Gbps eCPRI/RoE open front-haul interface  Acceleration for functions such as LDPC encoding and decoding, and end-to-end high PHY Switch  Standard COTS TOR switch Storage  Software-defined storage (e.g., Ceph) based on COTS servers

# 362 Table 4-1. Requirements for the cloud platform hardware.
Operating System Requirements

# 364 Table 4-2 shows requirements for the cloud platform operating system.
Operating System Description Linux  Linux kernel with real-time preemption patches for O-DU workloads (i.e., SMP PREEMPT RT). Real-time kernel patch for O-CU is optional.  Deterministic interrupt handling with a maximum latency of 20 µs as measured by cyclictest for system interrupts (e.g., external I/O) and interrupt-based O-CU and O-DU implementations (e.g., those that rely on OS timers)  CRI-O and/or CRI plugin containerd support  QEMU/KVM (or other types of hypervisor) for virtual machines

# 365 Table 4-2. Requirements for the cloud platform operating system.
Cloud Platform Runtime Requirements

# 367 Table 4-3 shows requirements for the cloud platform runtime.
Runtime Components Description Accelerator Driver  Edge cloud: driver for loading, configuring, managing and interfacing with accelerator hardware providing offload functions for O-DU container or VM Crypto Driver  Crypto offload driver for networking and O-CU wireless cipher (optional) Network Driver  Network driver(s) for front-haul, back-haul, mid-haul, inter container or VM communication, management and storage networks Board Management  Board management for interfacing with server hardware and sensors PTP  Precision time protocol for distributing phase, time and synchronization over a packet- based network Software-defined  Software implementation of block storage running on COTS servers, optional for edge Storage (SDS) cloud and required for regional cloud  If used in edge cloud, required to be hyperconverged; in regional cloud, either hyperconverged or deployed on dedicated storage nodes Container Runtime  Executes and manages container images on a node Hypervisor  Allows host to run multiple isolated VMs  Low performance overhead, compared with non-virtualized execution of specified benchmarks, e.g., SPECcpu, fio, L2Fwd, etc. (quantitative requirements FFS)

# 368 Table 4-3. Requirements for the cloud platform runtime.
Generic Requirements for Cloud Platform Management

# 370 Table 4-4 shows the generic requirements for management of the cloud platform.
Components Description Configuration  Auto-discovery of new servers added to an O-Cloud Management  Management of installation parameters such as console, root disks  Configuration of core, memory, huge-page assignments on each server node  Network interfaces and storage assignments  Hardware discovery of CPUs, cores, storage, network ports, hardware accelerators, etc.  Virtual-to-physical CPU core and NUMA node pinning  Virtual NUMA topology configuration  Huge-page memory  Interrupt and thread pinning to virtual and physical cores Host Management  Life-cycle and availability management of the server  Host failure detection and recovery  Fault monitoring and reporting  Cluster connectivity failure detection and recovery  VM/container failure detection and recovery  Critical process failure detection and recovery  Resource utilization thresholds (e.g., CPU, memory, storage limits)  Network interface states  Hardware sensors and faults  Watchdog  Board management interfaces and out-of-band server management  Hardware sensor monitoring Service Management  Monitoring of critical platform infrastructure services and processes  Automatic recovery of failed platform infrastructure services and processes HA Management  High-availability services for supporting cloud platform redundancy Fault management  Cloud platform infrastructure alarm and fault management.  Ability to set, clear, query, filter, suppress, log and collect alarms Software Management  Ability to deploy software updates  Support for rolling updates across all nodes of the local O-Cloud  Support for migrating VMs and/or containers within the local O-Cloud for software upgrade procedures User Management  User authentication and authorization  Isolation of control and resources among different users Node Feature  Detection and setting of node-level policies to align resource allocation choices (i.e. Management NUMA, SR-IOV, CPU, etc.) HW Accelerator  Support for managing hardware accelerators, mapping them to O-RAN applications Management VMs and/or containers, and updating accelerator firmware

# 371 Table 4-4. Cloud platform management requirements.
VM/Container Management and Orchestration Requirements

# 373 Table 4-5 shows requirements for VM/container management and orchestration as part of the cloud platform.
Components Description VM/Container  VM management and scheduling with OpenStack Nova Management  Container management and scheduling with Kubernetes kube-apiserver, kube- scheduler, etcd, kube-controller-manager VM/Container  VM orchestration with Heat templates Orchestration  Container orchestration with HELM charts VM/Container Storage  VM storage and image services with OpenStack Glance and Cinder  Container persistent volume claims (PVCs)  VM/Container Ceph backends for persistent storage (optional) VM/Container  VM networking with OpenStack Neutron Networking  Container networking with kube-proxy and CNI

# 374 Table 4-5. Requirements for VM/container management and orchestration.
Time Synchronization Requirements

# 376 The synchronization requirements addressed in this document cover only the synchronization aspects of the O-Cloud
377 nodes that are part of the edge cloud. O-Cloud nodes capable of supporting O-DU deployments shall comply with the 378 synchronization requirements associated with the O-DU instances when instantiated on the O-Cloud nodes, as in CUS 379 specification [2]. The requirements in the section address the LLS-C3 configuration where O-DU and O-RU are 380 synchronized from the fronthaul network. Additional configurations are for future study.

# 381 This section assumes that the O-DU is not on the synchronization path to the O-RU, which is the case with the LLS-C3
382 and LLS-C4 configurations. O-RAN Fronthaul Working Group Control, User and Synchronization Specification (CUS) 383 [2] specifies the time synchronization requirements for the LLS topology configurations.

# 385 O-RU. O-DU is able to meet synchronization requirements while selecting PTP source from connected networks,
386 provided that the synchronization accuracy requirements for the network as specified in CUS [2] are met in such an 387 implementation. As an end application, O-DU may optionally use SyncE along with PTP, or local time source (typically 388 a GNSS receiver), but these options are not considered in this section. For more details on time synchronization 389 requirements, refer to CUS [2].

### G.8275.1 Full Timing Support (FTS)

# 391 Figure 4-2 illustrates a synchronization architecture for an edge site aligned with the CAD [1] LLS-C3 Synchronization

# 392 Topology where Compute Nodes synchronize their clocks to a Grandmaster Clock via the Fronthaul Network.

# 394 Figure 4-2. Key LLS-C3 Fronthaul Synchronization in an example implementation in O-Cloud.

# 395 A distinction is made between the O-Cloud network and the fronthaul network. The O-Cloud network includes all
396 switches and routers in any network path between two O-Cloud nodes. The fronthaul network includes all switches and 397 other transport equipment in any network path between an O-DU capable O-Cloud node and an O-RU. These networks 398 may overlap, with some routers/switches (e.g., the leaf and spine switches in the O-Cloud resource pool) participating in 399 both the O-Cloud network and the fronthaul network. In the case of such overlap, irrespective of the management 400 responsibilities associated with fabric and transport network elements, all network elements in the timing transfer path 401 between the Grandmaster Clock(s) and Slave (subordinate) Clocks are considered to be part of the fronthaul 402 synchronization network from the associated synchronization functionality and profile compliance point of view.

# 403 An O-Cloud synchronized from the fronthaul network, based on full time support, shall follow the following requirements:

# 404 O-Cloud node requirements:

# 405 (1) All O-DU capable O-Cloud nodes shall have at-least one NIC connected to the fronthaul network. Such nodes
406 shall implement PTP Slaves (subordinate) to the fronthaul network that provides the PTP timing synchronization.

# 407 (2) The PTP Slave (subordinate) NICs shall support T-TSC functionality that is fully compliant with PTP profile
408 ITU-T G.8275.1. 409 (3) These Slave (subordinate) PTP NICs shall implement according to “1588-2008 - IEEE Standard for a Precision

# 410 Clock Synchronization Protocol for Networked Measurement and Control Systems”, section “6.6.5 Generation
411 of PTP message timestamps” reference point A.

# 412 (4) The O-Cloud shall track which nodes supports PTP capable NICs that are connected to the fronthaul network
413 for the purpose of inventorying O-Cloud nodes that satisfy vO-DU synchronization requirements.

# 414 (5) The O-Cloud shall provide the ability to configure an O-Cloud node’s PTP physical port(s) that receives PTP
415 traffic as a PTP Slave (subordinate). The following minimum configuration shall be supported: 416 - Network Transport – G.8275.1 synchronization over Ethernet (Layer 2);

# 417 - Time Stamping – support for hardware time stamping.
418 (6) The O-Cloud operating environment (software stack) shall support PTP protocol implementation (1588-2008 -

# 419 IEEE Standard). For example: in the case when an O-Cloud is based on the Linux OS, this will require support
420 for ptp4l and phc2sys.

# 421 (7) The node clock on each node shall be synchronized from the NIC T-TSC clock(s). For example: in the case when
422 an O-Cloud is based on the Linux OS, this will require support for phc2sys – Synchronization of two clocks,

# 423 PHC and node clock (a.k.a system clock) when using HW timestamping.

# 424 (8) Administrative access to the PHCs from deployment instances shall not be allowed, as that would interfere with 425 the PHC management from the cloud platform software. The O-Cloud may provide direct read-only access to
426 the PHC counters from the deployment instances.

# 427 (9) When the Slave (subordinate) PTP NIC is connected two at least two ports to the fronthaul network the PTP

# 428 Slave (subordinate) NIC shall run the Alternative BMCA in order to select its best master clock.

# 430 O-Cloud network requirements:

# 431 (1) All O-Cloud switches that are also part of the fronthaul network shall provide full timing support with the 432 G.8275.1 Telecom Profile. The synchronization performance requirements are specified in the CUS specification
433 [2] for the O-DU LLS-C3 configuration. Although the CUS allows the ITU-T G8275.2 Telecom Profile for partial 434 timing support, O-Cloud requirements and performance with G8275.2 is for future study.

# 435 (2) Time synchronization redundancy should be supported and is up to the operator’s discretion.

# 436 (3) O-Cloud network switches that are also part of the fronthaul network shall support untagged L2 Ethernet transport
437 for S-Plane traffic.

# 438 (4) The fronthaul network elements between the GM and RUs shall require implementing SyncE based on O-RU
439 requirements.

# 441 Recommendations:

# 442 All physical network elements that are in the synchronization transfer path (i.e. PRTC/T-GM, switches that act as T-BC,
443 and all O-Cloud node Slaves (subordinate) that act as T-TSC) should implement a 1PPS output interface of the associated

# 444 Network Elements local clock to facilitate connection to external performance test equipment for performance validation
445 purposes.

# 447 DU related synchronization requirements determine the performance classes of the PRTC/T-GM and T-BCs that are on 448 the synchronization distribution path towards the O-RUs.

# 449 Note: The Alternative Best Master Selection Algorithm (BMCA) running in Ordinary Clock or Boundary Clock performs
450 the GM selection. A-BMCA is used for improving the accuracy, to optimize the time distribution with multiple PRTC/T-

# 451 GMs and providing redundancy. By default, the BMCA runs at least once every Announce message interval. There are
452 two steps for the selection:

# 454 Announce message from Multiple Sources.

# 455 - State Selection Update the state of each port based on the selection. This is to set the state of all the ports in the clock
456 to a new state, if needed, to sync with better source of a GM.

### G.8275.2 Partial Timing Support (PTS)

# 459 As specified in the CUS specification [2], DU synchronization requirements are more relaxed than the requirements
460 associated with the RU, and CUS specification [2] also allows separate PRTC sources to be used for the synchronization 461 of the RUs and DUs. The use of G.8275.2 Partial Timing Support is allowed for the synchronization of O-Cloud nodes

# 462 (and instantiated O-DU's), provided that the synchronization accuracy requirements for the O-DU as specified in CUS
463 specification [2] are met in such implementation. The detailed implementation of this configuration is subject for the 464 further study. Hardware Acceleration Requirements

# 466 The O-RAN Cloud Architecture document [1] discusses the hardware abstraction considerations for the O-Cloud. It lists
467 two levels of abstraction referring to the deployment model and APIs, and also discusses the management and 468 orchestration considerations that should be supported by such hardware accelerators deployed on the cloud platform. This 469 section describes the types of acceleration as background information and then specifies requirements applicable to the

# 470 O-Cloud for acceleration hardware abstraction.
Background on Acceleration Types

# 472 Hardware acceleration for the managed functions, such as O-DU and O-CU, can be classified into two types:

# 473  Interface acceleration: acceleration of I/O data transfers on any interface between 3GPP or O-RAN network
474 functions [16];

# 475  Algorithm acceleration: acceleration of any algorithm processing within an O-RAN network function.

# 477 Interface acceleration mostly exhibits as acceleration of network traffic transmission and reception, for which SR-IOV

# 478 NICs, combined with software mechanisms such as DPDK, is commonly used.

# 479 Algorithm acceleration includes acceleration of compute-intensive algorithms in the O-DU and O-CU, utilizing
480 accelerator hardware such as FPGA, GPU, DSP, and ASIC.

# 481 Acceleration for the O-DU

# 482 Figure 4-3 illustrates acceleration of the interfaces between the O-DU and other O-RAN network functions and 483 acceleration of the high-PHY algorithms within the O-DU. Table 4-6 shows in more detail the accelerated functions.

# 485 Figure 4-3. O-DU interface and algorithm acceleration.
Accelerated Function Interface Name Acceleration Type I/O between O-DU and O-CU-CP F1-C Interface acceleration (optional) I/O between O-DU and O-CU-UP F1-U Interface acceleration I/O between O-DU and SMO O1 Interface acceleration (optional) I/O between O-DU and Near-RT RIC E2 Interface acceleration (optional) I/O between O-DU and O-RU FH7.2 Interface acceleration High-PHY algorithms N/A Algorithm acceleration

# 487 Table 4-6. O-DU acceleration types.

# 488 Acceleration for the O-CU-CP

# 489 Figure 4-4 illustrates acceleration of the interfaces between the O-CU-CP and other O-RAN network functions and 490 acceleration of the security algorithms within the O-CU-CP. Table 4-7 shows in more detail the accelerated functions.

# 492 Figure 4-4. O-CU-CP interface and algorithm acceleration.
Accelerated Function Interface Name Acceleration Type I/O between O-CU-CP and O-DU F1-C Interface acceleration (optional) I/O between O-CU-CP and SMO O1 Interface acceleration (optional) I/O between O-CU-CP and Near-RT RIC E2 Interface acceleration (optional) I/O between O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP E1 Interface acceleration (optional) I/O between O-CU-CP and O-CU-CP Xn Interface acceleration (optional) I/O between O-CU-CP and O-CU X2 Interface acceleration (optional) I/O between O-CU-CP and MME S1AP Interface acceleration (optional) I/O between O-CU-CP and AMF NG-C Interface acceleration (optional) Security algorithms N/A Algorithm acceleration

# 494 Table 4-7. O-CU-CP acceleration types.

# 495 Acceleration for the O-CU-UP

# 496 Figure 4-5 illustrates acceleration of the interfaces between the O-CU-UP and other O-RAN network functions and 497 acceleration of the security algorithms within the O-CU-UP. Table 4-8 shows in more detail the accelerated functions.

# 500 Figure 4-5. O-CU-UP interface and algorithm acceleration.
Accelerated Function Interface Name Acceleration Type I/O between O-CU-UP and O-DU F1-U Interface acceleration I/O between O-CU-UP and SMO O1 Interface acceleration (optional) I/O between O-CU-UP and Near-RT RIC E2 Interface acceleration (optional) I/O between O-CU-UP and O-CU-CP E1 Interface acceleration (optional) I/O between O-CU-UP and SAE-GW S1U Interface acceleration I/O between O-CU-UP and UPF NG-U Interface acceleration Security algorithms N/A Algorithm acceleration

# 502 Table 4-8. O-CU-UP acceleration types.
Hardware Acceleration Abstraction Layer Requirements

# 504 The Acceleration Abstraction Layer (AAL) provides a set of APIs to VNF/CNF software for offloading certain functions
505 that, for instance, are compute- and power-intensive, to hardware accelerators supported on the O-Cloud platform. The 506 objective of the AAL is to hide the different implementations of hardware accelerators and present APIs to VNF/CNF 507 applications to enable portability and software-and-hardware decoupling. Full listing of the functions that can be offloaded 508 through the AAL is outside the scope of this document.

# 509 Generic Requirements

# 510 Extensibility

# 511 O-RAN has defined the functions that can be accelerated by the cloud platform based on 3GPP specifications and O-RAN
512 deployment scenarios. However, the AAL API should not limit innovation of future implementations and should evolve 513 as the specification requires. In this way, the API shall be extensible to accommodate future revisions of the specification.

# 514 Interrupt and Poll Mode

# 515 The API shall allow multiple design choices for application vendors and shall not preclude a vendor from adopting an 516 interrupt-driven design or poll-mode design or any combination of both. As such, the API shall support both interrupt
517 mode and poll mode for the data-path application interface.

# 518 Discovery and Configuration

# 519 The API shall support application software to discover and configure the accelerator hardware. The API shall allow an 520 application to discover what physical resources have been assigned to it from the upper layers and then to configure said
521 resources for offload operations.

# 522 Multiple Device Support

# 523 There may be scenarios where multiple hardware accelerators (either implementing the same acceleration function or 524 different) are assigned to a single application, which uses one or more of these accelerators as needed. The API shall
525 support an application using one or more accelerator devices at the same time, as Figure 4-6 illustrates.

# 527 Figure 4-6. AAL support for multiple devices.

# 528 API offload requirements

# 529 The API in supporting different implementations shall support different offload architectures including look-aside, inline,
530 and any combination of both.

# 531 Look-aside Acceleration Model

# 532 The API shall support look-aside acceleration model where the host CPU invokes an accelerator for data processing and 533 receives the result after processing is complete. A look-aside architecture, illustrated in Figure 4-7, allows the application
534 to offload work to a hardware accelerator and continue to perform other work in parallel—this could be to continue to 535 execute other software tasks in parallel or to sleep and wait for the accelerator hardware to complete. This model requires 536 the API to support two operations, one for initiating the offload and another for retrieving the operation once complete.

# 538 Figure 4-7. AAL look-aside acceleration model.

# 539 Inline Acceleration Model

# 540 The API shall support inline acceleration model where acceleration by function and I/O-based acceleration are performed
541 on the physical interface as the packet ingresses/egresses the platform. Figure 4-8 shows one possible implementation of 542 an inline acceleration model.

# 544 Figure 4-8. AAL inline acceleration model.

# 545 In Figure 4-8, a “Func” block refers to some algorithmic function that is accelerated in the device before the data egresses
546 or ingresses from the acceleration device. “Tx” refers to the transmission of the data from the acceleration device to an

# 547 Ethernet interface, while ‘Rx’ refers to the reception of data from the Ethernet interface to the acceleration device.

# 548 While the look-aside architecture shall support dataflow from the CPU to the accelerator and back to the CPU before
549 being sent to the front-haul interface, the inline architecture shall support data flow from the CPU to the accelerator and 550 directly from the accelerator to the front-haul interface, instead of being sent back to the CPU. The typical data flows for 551 accelerating the O-DU high-PHY functions for the look-aside and inline architectures are as follows.

# 552 Look-aside architecture dataflow

# 553 CPU ↔ accelerator ↔ CPU ↔ front-haul: for a set of consecutive PHY functions offload (e.g., FEC)

# 554 CPU ↔ accelerator ↔ CPU ↔ accelerator ↔…↔ CPU ↔ front-haul: for a set of non-consecutive PHY functions offload

# 555 Inline architecture dataflow

# 556 CPU ↔ accelerator ↔ front-haul: for a set of consecutive PHY functions offload (up to the end of the PHY pipeline)

# 557 Figure 4-9 illustrates one possible implementation of the look-aside and inline architectures. While a set of PHY-layer
558 functions are offloaded to the accelerator hardware for look-aside acceleration, the entire end-to-end high PHY pipeline 559 is offloaded to the accelerator for inline acceleration. High PHY on CPU Lo m ok o - d as e i l de L2 C + P U on int L e 1 r / f L a 2 ce * Fu 1 nc. Fu 3 nc. Fu 4 nc. ... Fu n nc. lu a h t n e c a fr e RRU ot rn AAL Fi O-DU Func. 2 on Func. (n-1) on accelerator accelerator

# L P *e.g. FAPI
F

# 561 Figure 4-9. Dataflow paths in look-aside and inline acceleration architectures.

# 562 API Concurrency and Parallelism

# 563 To enable greater flexibility and design choice by application vendors, the API shall support multi-threading environment
564 allowing an application to offload acceleration requests in parallel from several threads. Chapter 5 (Informative) Cloud Platform Design Example

# 566 This chapter includes some possible platform configurations for the regional and edge clouds for both the cloud platform
567 hardware and software. These platform configurations are informative examples only, not normative, and focus on sub-

# 568 6GHz scenarios. Support for mmWave and quantification of capacities of these example designs (such as the number of 569 cells, data rates, and so forth) have not been systemized or validated and will be further studied in the next release of this
570 document. Cloud Platform Hardware Design Example

# 572 This section specifies the cloud platform hardware with a focus on server and accelerator hardware. These informative
573 designs are some examples only. This document focuses on x86 processor-based cloud server design; it will address ARM 574 processor-based designs in a future release. Regional Cloud Server Example

# 576 Table 5-1 shows an example design for the regional cloud servers.
Processor 2x 20-core CPUs at 2.4 GHz, e.g., 2nd-generation Intel Xeon Scalable Processor Memory 12x 32 GB, 2400 MHz TruDDR4 Expansion Slots 6x PCIe 3.0 Drive Bays 14x 3.5” or 24x 2.5” hot-swap bays or 24x NVMe bays RAID support RAID 1, 12 Gb/s Network 4x 10GbE/25GbE ports, 1 dedicated 1GbE management port, e.g., 1x Fortville 40GbE Ethernet Interface PCIe XL710-QDA2 Dual Port QSFP+ (PCI-E card direct to CPU 0) Network link Enabled aggregation Power 2x hot swap/redundant; support 220V/380V AC, 480V and -48V DC Security TPM or TCM Availability Hot-swap fans/PSUs; 45℃ continuous operation; light path diagnostic LEDs; front-access diagnostics via dedicated USB port Manageability Support for IPMI, SNMP, and Redfish

# 577 Table 5-1. Regional cloud server example design.
Edge Cloud Server Example

# 579 Table 5-2 shows an example design for the edge cloud servers with FPGA based acceleration.
Form factors Depth ≤ 450mm, height ≤ 2RU, width ≤ 19in Processor 2nd-generation Intel Xeon Gold (e.g., 6210U) or Xeon D-2187NT (16-core) or Xeon D-2177NT (14-core); hyperthreading enabled for O-CU, disabled for O-DU Note: the NT models have Intel QAT integrated with the CPU and can perform PDCP crypto acceleration in the vO-CU (when applicable, i.e., for Scenario B and C.1/C2). Memory 12x 32 GB, 2400 MHz TruDDR4 Expansion Slots At least 2x half-height half-length (HHHL) or 1x HHHL and 1x FHFL Drive Bays 6x hot-swappable 2.5-inch SATA or SAS drives; 2x NVMe drives; all drives accessible from front panel RAID support RAID1 Network 4x 10GbE/25GbE ports, 1 dedicated 1GbE management port, 1x Fortville 40GbE Ethernet PCIe Interface XL710-QDA2 Dual Port QSFP+ (PCI-E card direct to CPU 0), network cabling at front panel PSU  1+1 redundant  Hot-swappable  Support for 220V AC or -48V DC  PSUs are connected through the rear panel (AT&T, China Mobile) or front panel (China Telecom, DT, KDDI, Orange) Temperature -5 °C ~ 55 °C (-10 °C to 60 °C preferred) Security TPM or TCM Availability Hot-swap fans/PSUs; 45℃ continuous operation; light path diagnostic LEDs; front-access diagnostics via dedicated USB port Manageability Support for IPMI, SNMP, and Redfish Acceleration Intel® Programable Acceleration Card N3000, PCIe x16 Gen3, FHHL, I/O 2x25Gbe per QSFP28, FEC Profile 15Gbps Uplink, 5Gbps Downlink, Up to 8 VFs. (look-aside, FEC profile)

# 580 Table 5-2. Edge cloud server example design with FPGA acceleration.

# 581 Table 5-3 shows an example design for the edge cloud servers with GPU based acceleration.
Form factors Depth ≤ 450mm, height ≤ 2RU, width ≤ 19in Processor 12C x86 CPU complex or better (e.g. Xeon) Memory 64 GB, 2400 MHz; or higher Expansion Slots At least 1x HHHL and 1x FHFL Dual Slot Drive Bays 6x hot-swappable 2.5-inch SATA or SAS drives; 2x NVMe drives; all drives accessible from front panel RAID support RAID1 Network 2x 100/50/25/10 GbE ports, 1 dedicated 1GbE management port, 1x Mellanox ConnectX®-6 Dx Interface (with crypto offload support, eCPRI offload with 5T for 5G technology) Efficient peer-to-peer support, either through root complex, or external PCIe switch (such as ExpressLane™ PEX 8747) recommended for high bandwidth use cases (like multi-carrier 100MHz massive MIMO systems) PSU  1+1 redundant  Hot-swappable  Support for 220V AC or -48V DC  PSUs are connected through the rear panel (AT&T, China Mobile) or front panel (China Telecom, DT, KDDI, Orange) Temperature -5 °C ~ 55 °C (-10 °C to 60 °C preferred) Security TPM Availability Hot-swap fans/PSUs; 45℃ continuous operation; light path diagnostic LEDs; front-access diagnostics via dedicated USB port Manageability Support for IPMI, SNMP, and Redfish Acceleration NVIDIA® T4, PCIe x16/x8 Gen3, HHHL (for smaller capacity, low band deployments). (inline, end-to- NVIDIA® Tesla® V100, PCIe x16 Gen3, FHFL (for higher capacity, to enable support for multi- profile)

# 582 Table 5-3. Edge cloud server example design with GPU acceleration.
BIOS/UEFI Configurations

# 584 Table 5-4 shows recommended settings for the various edge cloud deployment types.
BIOS Setting Description Regional Regional & Edge Cloud Cloud Edge Cloud with Strict Settings for with Real Real Time Maximum Time Configuration Performance for O-DU (with Turbo mode enabled) System Power Favor high performance over low power Optional Enabled Enabled and Performance consumption for the entire system (e.g., CPU Policy and memory). Intel Hyper- Enabling HT doubles the number of (logical) Enabled Optional Optional Threading CPU cores. But threads on the same physical Technology core share various core data structures and (HT) caches, causing performance interference. It is recommended to enable HT to ensure high system throughput, but for applications such as O-DU in the edge cloud, carefully pin latency-sensitive threads to dedicated cores to ensure real-time performance. Prefetching Memory cache prefetching technologies Enabled Enabled Enabled allow prefetching data and instructions into the cache before they are used. In general, prefetching reduces cache misses and increases application performance. Intel CPU hardware support for virtualization. Enabled Enabled Enabled virtualization support (VT-x) Intel VT for Support for PCI-E passthrough and SRIOV. Enabled Enabled Enabled direct I/O (VT-d) Intel Turbo Enabling this feature allows individual CPU Enabled Disabled Enabled Boost cores to run at frequencies higher than the Technology base frequency when the processor has sufficient thermal headroom. Frequent transition between normal and turbo modes, however, can cause non-predictive performance and impact system real-time characteristics. Enhanced Intel Enhanced SpeedStep is a series of dynamic Enabled Disabled Enabled SpeedStep frequency scaling technologies built into Technology modern Intel microprocessors that allow the clock speed of the processor to be Intel dynamically changed (to different P-states) by Nominal Nominal Level 2 Configurable software. This allows the processor to meet TDP instantaneous performance needs of the operation being performed, while minimizing power draw and heat generation. In general, disabling this feature avoids CPU frequency changing dynamically and thus facilitates deterministic performance. Enabling this but setting the configurable TDP level in the next setting allows finer control on the frequency that the CPU will run at. Energy-efficient Transitions in and out of turbo mode incur Disabled Disabled Disabled Turbo extra power and overly frequent transitions are energy inefficient. This feature enables more energy-efficient turbo operation. Hardware P- Disabling hardware-controlled P-states Disabled C0/C1 state C0/C1 state States avoids unpredicted frequency change and helps achieve deterministic performance. Hardware PM Disabled Disabled Disabled Interrupt EPP Enable Disabled Disabled Disabled APS Rocketing Disabled Disabled Disabled Scalability Disabled Disabled Disabled PP0-Budget Disabled Disabled Disabled CPU C State Disabling C-state transitions prevents CPU Enabled Disabled Disabled Control & C1E cores from entering sleep states when there is & Processor C6 no task to execute. C-states that are often seen in BIOS settings include C1E, C3, and C6 states. As C-state transitions introduce delay, disabling them helps real-time performance, though at the cost of higher power consumption. Direct Cache DCA can only reduce packet reception delay. Enabled Enabled Enabled Access (DCA) & Another technology, DDIO, reduces delay for Data Direct I/O both transmission and reception. It is (DDIO) recommended to enable DDIO instead of DCA when both settings are present. Uncore Allow the voltage and frequency of the uncore Enabled Disabled Enabled Frequency to be programmed independently. Uncore Scaling activities are monitored to optimize the frequency in real time. Memory RAS Enable ACPI tables that are required for Optional Optional Optional and Performance NUMA-aware operating systems. Configuration & NUMA Optimized

# 585 Table 5-4. BIOS configurations for strong real-time systems.
Firmware Versions 587 Table 5-5 shows firmware versions for the example reference design based on the Intel Server Board S2600WF family. BIOS/IFWI SE5C620.86B.00.01.0013.030920180427 Baseboard Management Controller (BMC) 1.43.91f76955 Download link https://downloadcenter.intel.com/download/27632/Intel- Server-Board-S2600WF-Family-BIOS-and-Firmware- Update-Package-for-UEFI-?product=89005 588 Table 5-5. Firmware for example reference design based on Intel server board S2600WF. Accelerator Hardware

# 590 For deployment scenario B (see [1] and Section 2.1), the O-DU and the O-CU functions are deployed as VNF(s) or CNF(s)
591 on the edge cloud platform and the Near-RT RIC is deployed as a VNF or CNF on the regional cloud platform. Likewise, 592 for deployment scenario C and its variants C.1/C.2 (see [1] and Section 2.2), the O-CU functions are also deployed as

# 593 VNF(s) or CNF(s) on the regional cloud platform. This section details the hardware acceleration options for these

# 594 VNFs/CNFs that the cloud platforms shall provide.

# 595 Regional Cloud Platform

# 596 In deployment scenario B, the regional cloud platform provides support for the Near-RT RIC. There is currently no
597 hardware acceleration options required for the Near-RT RIC at this stage of definition but this may evolve in future.

# 599 Near-RT RIC. The O-CU, depending on performance requirements, may choose to use hardware acceleration (e.g., Intel

# 600 QAT) for wireless cipher processing, namely 128-EEA3, 128-EIA3, UEA2 and UIA2—depending on configurations.

# 601 Edge Cloud Platform

# 602 The O-CU and O-DU may follow the software architecture as defined in the O-RAN WG8 specification [17].

# 603 O-CU Acceleration

# 604 When the O-CU functions are deployed on the edge cloud platform (i.e., scenarios B and C.1/C2), the O-CU, depending
605 on performance requirements, may choose to use hardware acceleration (e.g., Intel QAT) for wireless cipher processing, 606 namely 128-EEA3, 128-EIA3, UEA2 and UIA2—depending on configurations.

# 607 O-DU Acceleration

# 608 The O-DU is assumed to use the 7.2 split with the front-end processing (FFT, PRACH) implemented in the O-RU. The 609 remaining O-DU functions are implemented as software running on the edge cloud platform. Depending on the
610 performance requirements, the compute-intense workloads may be accelerated in hardware using look-aside acceleration 611 or inline acceleration or any combination of both.

# 612 Figure 5-1 shows a high-level architecture of look-aside acceleration with proposed Forward Error Correcting (FEC)
613 functions to be hardware-accelerated for the O-DU.

# 614 Figure 5-1. Hardware-accelerated FEC functions with look-aside model.

# 615 Figure 5-2 shows an example of an inline solution for the O-DU that accelerates the front-end compression and 616 decompression (e.g., Mu-Law and BFP) functions in accelerator hardware before sending to the O-RU.

# 619 Figure 5-2. Hardware-accelerated front-end functions with inline model.

# 620 Figure 5-3 shows a high-level architecture of inline acceleration with end-to-end high PHY functions to be hardware- 621 accelerated.

# R M CRC
LDPC Rate Mod. Layer RE

# L A Generation + Scrambler Precoder RRU
Encoder Matching Mapper Mapper Mapper

# C C segmentation
Downlink PDSCH pipeline

# R M
L1/L2 CRC LDPC De-Rate De- MIMO Channel RE

# L A Demod. RRU
interface check Decoder Matching Scrambler Equalizer Estimator Demapper

# C C
Uplink PUSCH pipeline

# 622 GPU CPU

# 623 Figure 5-3. Hardware-accelerated end-to-end high-PHY functions with inline model.

# 624 High-level Platform Architecture Examples

# 625 Based on the hardware acceleration options above, Figure 5-4 to Figure 5-6 illustrate the system-level platform
626 components required for the cloud platform to support various acceleration architectures for the O-DU and the O-CU, 627 and depicting also both scenarios B and C.

# 628 A cloud platform can also support a combination of accelerator functions, such as inline front-end acceleration and FEC
629 look-aside acceleration. Note that hardware acceleration for O-RAN network functions is desired but a software-only 630 implementation is also possible.

# 631 Example 1: O-DU and O-CU look-aside acceleration

# 632 Figure 5-4 shows an example cloud platform and its data flows with look-aside acceleration for both the O-DU (FEC)
633 and O-CU (wireless cipher). Example 2: O-DU inline and O-CU look-aside acceleration inline model for front-haul processing and the O-CU adopts look-aside acceleration for wireless ciphering.

# 634 Example 3: O-DU end-to-end high-PHY inline acceleration and O-CU look-aside acceleration.

# 635 Figure 5-6 shows an example cloud platform, where the O-DU uses the inline model for the entire high-PHY processing
636 and the O-CU adopts look-aside acceleration for wireless ciphering.

# 638 Figure 5-6. Cloud platform for O-DU inline acceleration of end-to-end high-PHY.
Cloud Platform Software Reference Design

# 640 This section shows an example reference design for the regional and edge cloud platform software. A single installable
641 package supporting various profiles of the platform software runs in both the regional and edge clouds, and can adjust to 642 the different physical environments and scale requirements. As mentioned in Chapter 2, this document focuses on a 643 container-based cloud platform design and will address VM-based designs in a future release.

# 644 Kubernetes is a common implementation for container orchestration and management. Platform infrastructure
645 management and additional components, such as Kubernetes plugins, must be added for hosting accelerated O-DU and

# 646 O-CU network functions.

# 647 The regional and edge cloud platform requirements also differ based on the network functions they host. Generally, the 648 edge cloud platform requirements are a superset of the functional requirements of the regional cloud platform. The primary
649 differences relate to hardware acceleration features, real-time Linux, precision time protocol and server node scalability 650 down to a single node for cell-site deployments.

# 651 This reference design focuses on deployment scenario B and C (with its variants C.1/C.2), LLS-C3 clock synchronization,
652 and FPGA and GPU hardware acceleration at the edge cloud. It defines two reference configuration profiles, for the 653 regional cloud and edge cloud. Common Reference Configurations for all Profiles

# 655 Table 5-6 lists the primary platform software components that are common across the two cloud platform reference
656 configuration profiles. A complete list of packages, version information and build recipes to create a cloud platform 657 meeting the requirements of Section 4.1.3 for container deployment are available in O-RAN SC INF project release B

# 658 (Bronze release). See [18] for further details.
Platform Description Components Ansible Orchestration engine for automating configuration management and application deployment. ansible.com Ceph Provides object storage, block storage and POSIX-compliant network file system. See ceph.io. Collectd Collects system and application performance metrics and provides mechanisms to store values. collectd.org Dhcp Assigns IP address and other network information to hosts. Dnsmasq Provides Domain Name System forwarder. en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dnsmasq docker-distribution Docker registry for storing and distributing images. github.com/docker/distribution Drbd Replicated storage. Etcd Distributed key-value store. etcd.io Helm Kubernetes package manager. helm.sh helm-charts Tool for managing charts. Charts are packages of pre-configured Kubernetes resources. github.com/helm/charts ima Detects if files have been accidentally or maliciously altered, both remotely and locally. linux-ima.sourceforge.net iptables Configures the tables from the Linux kernel firewall and the chains and rules it sores. en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iptables Kubernetes Automates deployment, scaling and management of containerized applications. kubernetes.io mariadb Relational databases. mariadb.org nginx High-performance HTTP server, reverse proxy and load balancer. pxe-network- Provides PXE (preboot execution environment) install server. installer rabbit-mq Highly-available and scalable message broker. rabbitmq.com redfishtool Industry standard protocol providing a RESTful interface for the management of servers. tpm2 Provides trusted platform module support. Kubernetes Description Components etcd Distributed key-value store used as Kubernetes backing store for cluster data. etcd.io coredns Kubernetes cluster DNS service. armada Manages helm chart dependences. calico Enables networking and network policy in Kubernetes clusters. Calico uses a pure IP networking fabric to provide high-performance networking. nginx-ingress- Enables Kubernetes to configure nginx for load balancing Kubernetes based services controller tiller Service that communicates with the Kubernetes API to manage helm packages.

# 659 Table 5-6. Common cloud platform reference configurations for all profiles.
Regional Cloud Reference Configuration Profile

# 661 The regional edge cloud profile is a cluster-based implementation with two redundant cloud platform controller nodes
662 and worker node scalability from one to 200 nodes. In addition to providing a cloud platform for the Near-RT RIC and, 663 additionally for the O-CU in Scenario C, the regional cloud platform provides zero-touch deployment and provisioning 664 and management of the edge clouds.

# 665 The SMO interfaces to the regional cloud platform for deployment of new edge clouds as well as updating and upgrading
666 of the edge cloud platform software. The regional controller functionality is provided by the distributed cloud component.

# 667 The regional cloud platform requires the common components in Table 5-6, as well as the components in Table 5-7.
Components Description distributed-cloud Provides centralized controller functions for management (e.g., lifecycle) of edge clouds.

# 668 Table 5-7. Regional cloud reference configuration profile.
Edge Cloud Reference Configuration Profile

# 670 Based on the hardware acceleration choice, the Linux kernel can be “standard” for inline GPU-based acceleration or “real- 671 time” for look-aside FPGA-based acceleration. See Section 5.2.4 for the real-time Linux kernel configuration details. In
672 addition, the edge cloud platform requires the common components in Table 5-6, as well as the components in Table 5-8. Platform Description Components distributed-cloud- Provides edge cloud client services for distributed cloud function. client e1000e-kmod E1000e driver for Intel® Gigabit NIC (optional – leveraged only if specific Intel hardware support is required). gdrcopy Provides GPU memory copy library (optional – leveraged only if specific Nvidia hardware support is required). i40e-kmod I40e driver for Intel® 40G NIC (optional – leveraged only if specific Intel hardware support is required). iavf-kmod Driver for Intel® Ethernet adaptive virtual function (optional – leveraged only if specific Intel hardware support is required). integrity-kmod Kernel module for IMA ixgbe-kmod Ixgbe driver for Intel® 82598 and 82599 based 10G NIC (optional – leveraged only if specific Intel hardware support is required). ixgbevf-kmod Driver for Intel® Ethernet adaptive virtual function for 10 Gig NIC (optional – leveraged only if specific Intel hardware support is required). libibverbs-31mlnx1- Allows user-space processes to use RDMA verbs directly (optional – leveraged only if specific ofed Mellanox hardware support is required). mlnx-ofa-kernel Driver for Mellanox NICs (optional – leveraged only if specific Mellanox hardware support is required). opae-intel-fpga- Open Programmable Acceleration Engine (OPAE) Kernel module for Intel FPGA. driver-kmod qat17 Driver for Intel® QuickAssist Technology (optional – leveraged only if specific Intel hardware support is required). rdma-core-45mlnx1 Driver for Mellanox RDMA-based interconnect (optional – leveraged only if specific Mellanox hardware support is required) Linuxptp Provides Precision Time Protocol according to IEEE standard 1588 and telecom profiles G.8265.1, G.8275.1 and G.8275.2 linuxptp.sourceforge.net Kubernetes Description Plugin/Operators Multus Multus is a Multi CNI plugin to support the Multi Networking feature in Kubernetes using CRD-based network objects in Kubernetes. The Multus plugin should be used on the master on all nodes to enable the use of multiple network interfaces inside a K8 pod. github.com/intel/multus-cni. FPGA FPGA Device plugin for FPGA passthrough (optional – leveraged only if specific Intel hardware support is required). github.com/intel/intel-device-plugins-for-kubernetes#fpga-device-plugin QAT QAT Device plugin for Intel® QAT adapters (optional – leveraged only if specific Intel hardware support is required). github.com/intel/intel-device-plugins-for-kubernetes/blob/master/cmd/qat_plugin/ SR-IOV The SR-IOV plugin is required to enable the assignment of VFs to containers. SR-IOV provides a low-latency interface for both packet I/O and acceleration interfaces. github.com/hustcat/sriov-cni CPU Manager The CPU manager for Kubernetes can be used to provide basic core affinity for VNFs and CNFs. It is required to pin real- time threads to specific CPU cores in order to improve performance and meet real-time latency. github.com/intel/CPU-Manager-for-Kubernetes. Node Feature The Node Feature Discovery plugin enables discovering server hardware node features for Discovery Kubernetes. It detects hardware features available on each node in a Kubernetes cluster, and advertises those features using node labels. github.com/kubernetes-sigs/node-feature-discovery Node Topology Node Topology Manager can be used to support NUMA awareness and pinning via the Manager scheduler. kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/topology-manager/ GPU Operator The GPU operator manages NVIDIA GPU and automates tasks related to boostrapping GPU enabled nodes (optional – leveraged only if specific Nvidia hardware support is required). nvidia.github.io/gpu-operator/

# 673 Table 5-8 Edge Cloud Reference Configuration Profile
Example Real-time Linux Configurations

# 675 Table 5-9 shows the reference configurations for the real-time Linux OS.
Linux Kernel 3.10.0-957.21.3.rt56.935.el7.x86_64 Host or Guest Linux rcu_nocbs=1-N rcu_nocb_poll N is the total number of logical CPU cores. Kernel Parameters isolcpus=1-N irqaffinity=0 tsc=perfect nohz_full=1-N idle=poll noswap Use the “tuna” tool, provided in some Linux distributions, to configure run-time CPU isolation and thread priorities, if permanent isolation with isolcpus kernel option is not desired. selinux=0 enforcing=0 Disable SELinux policies can help improve latency but should only be done if the security considerations are fully understood. default_hugepagesz=1G hugepagesz=1G Use huge pages to minimize TLB miss overhead; hugepages=21 use 2MB huge pages when system memory is limited. usbcore.autosuspend=-1 General configurations for real time. nmi_watchdog=0 softlockup_panic=0 cgroup_disable=memory skew_tick=1 nosoftlockup kthread_cpus=0 Limit host kernel threads to the OS core. Used also in guest assuming a pure user space application design. intel_pstate=disable Disabling P-states and limiting C-states in the intel_idle.max_cstate=0 kernel helps improve real time performance. processor.max_cstate=1 Host Linux GRUB intel_iommu=on iommu=pt Enable SR-IOV and optimal PCI performance. Parameters pci=pcie_bus_perf Host and Guest Turn off graphical desktop and Tuning unnecessary daemons in the system If ext3 or ext4 file system is used, consider using noatime in fstab Host Kernel BOOT_IMAGE=/vmlinuz-3.10.0-957.21.3.rt56.935.el7.x86_64 root=/dev/mapper/centos- Command Line root ro crashkernel=auto nomodeset rd.lvm.lv=centos/root rd.lvm.lv=centos/swap rhgb quiet example hugepagesz=1G hugepages=35 default_hugepagesz=1G intel_iommu=on iommu=pt LANG=en_GB.UTF-8 tboot=false biosdevname=0 usbcore.autosuspend=-1 selinux=0 enforcing=0 nmi_watchdog=0 softlockup_panic=0 cgroup_disable=memory skew_tick=1 isolcpus=1-N rcu_nocbs=1-N kthread_cpus=0 irqaffinity=0 nohz_full=1-N nopti clock=pit no_timer_check pci=pcie_bus_perf clocksource=tsc tsc=perfect idle=poll intel_pstate=disable intel_idle.max_cstate=0 processor.max_cstate=1 nohz=on mce=off nosoftlockup

# 676 Table 5-9. Real-time Linux configurations.
Time Synchronization Reference Design

# 678 Figure 5-7 illustrates an example of the redundant synchronization network for an edge site aligned with the requirements.

# 679 The O-RUs are expected to be connected to the same leaf-spine fabric, and as such the O-Cloud network is considered to 680 also be part of the fronthaul network.

# 682 Figure 5-7. Key synchronization chain elements in an example implementation in O-Cloud for LLS-C3.

# 684 The salient features of this design example are:

# 685  The synchronization reference sources (PRTC/T-GM) are redundant and located in the edge cloud. In this
686 example, the references are derived from the GNSS system, but any other implementation compliant with the 687 CUS specification [2] requirements (and references therein), which acts as G.8275.1 T-GM, is acceptable.

# 688  The synchronization reference sources are connected to the leaf-spine fabric with redundant Ethernet
689 interconnects. Specifically, each grandmaster connects to at least two leaf switches.

# 690  For larger site configurations (i.e. in which the switch capacity and port count requirements exceed the capabilities
691 of the single physical switch), the structure is expanded in a “leaf-spine” fabric configuration, as illustrated in [2].

# 692 For most edge site configurations, it is expected that a two-tier structure is sufficient, which implies that the 693 maximum length of any active synchronization transfer path from co-located sources is three boundary clocks
694 between the grandmaster and any node in the edge cloud. Therefore, the synchronization path “length” in terms 695 of number of boundary clocks that needs to be supportable in this configuration is typically from one to three.

# 696 Capability to support more nodes in the path is desirable to allow for configurations where the grandmasters are
697 not co-located at the edge cloud.

# 698  All edge O-Cloud nodes are attached to at least two physically separated, independent leaf switches to provide
699 network redundancy and tolerance against a single point of failure that can affect more than one node (i.e. switch 700 failures). In addition to normal network fault tolerance, this is also useful for maintaining the synchronization 701 network fault tolerance.

# 703 Many alternative variations and physical realizations of the above design are possible (e.g. PRTCs/GMs can be combined
704 with switches or routers, leaf-spine structure can be integrated onto physical box, sizes of elements can vary, etc.), but 705 functionally with respect to the synchronization transfer chain, all of the entities are expected to be present (i.e. PRTC/T-

# 706 GMs, Telecom Boundary Clock nodes, as well Telecom subordinate Clock nodes).

# 707 For this design example, the O-DU synchronization performance requirements as specified in the CUS specification [2]
708 for the O-DU LLS-C3 configuration expected to be met with the following set of elements in the synchronization transfer 709 path: 710  T-GM A and T-GM B clocks with performance class ITU-T G.8272 PRTC/T-GM type PRTC-B serving as 711 grandmasters for O-DUs as well as O-RUs (O-DUs require PRTC-A or better while O-RUs require PRTC-B)

# 712  The Fronthaul Leafs acting as T-BCs in both the O-RU and O-DU synchronization path, with support for a 713 minimum performance class ITU-T G.8273.2 T-BC Class B (Class C is recommended);

# 714  The Spine and O-Cloud Leaf switches acting as T-BCs in the O-DU synchronization path only, with the least
715 demanding T-BC performance class ITU-T G.8273.2 T-BC Class A or better; 716  T-TSC implementation on the O-Cloud nodes with the least demanding performance class ITU-T G.8273.2,


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG6.O-CLOUD-IOT-R004-v02.02.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG6.O-CLOUD-IOT-R004-v02.02 Technical Specification O-RAN Work Group 6 O-Cloud Interoperability Test (IOT) Specification"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1]. O-Cloud This refers to a collection of O-Cloud Resource Pools at one or more location and the software to manage Nodes and Deployments hosted on them. An O-Cloud will include functionality to support both Deployment-plane and Management services. The O-Cloud provides a single logical reference point for all O-Cloud Resource Pools within the O-Cloud boundary. O-CU O-RAN Centralized Unit – a logical node hosting PDCP, RRC, SDAP and other control functions. O-DU O-RAN Distributed Unit–a logical node hosting RLC/MAC/High-PHY layers based on a lower layer functional split. O-RU O-RAN Radio Unit–a logical node hosting Low-PHY layer and RF processing based on a lower layer functional split. This is similar to 3GPP’s “TRP” or “RRH”, but more specific in including the Low-PHY layer (FFT/iFFT, PRACH extraction).

## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of this document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1]. 3GPP Third Generation Partnership Project AAL Acceleration Abstraction Layer AALI-C Acceleration Abstraction Layer Interface-Common AALI-C-Mgmt Acceleration Abstraction Layer Interface-Common-Management AALI-C-App Acceleration Abstraction Layer Interface-Common-Application AALI-P Acceleration Abstraction Layer Interface-Profile API Application Programming Interface CPU Central Processing Unit CU Centralized Unit as defined by 3GPP DU Distributed Unit as defined by 3GPP DUT Device Under Test EC Event Producer EP Event Consumer HAM Hardware Acceleration Manager IMS Infrastructure Management Services IOT Interoperability Test O-Cloud O-RAN Cloud Platform O-CU O-RAN Centralized Unit O-DU O-RAN Distributed Unit O-RU O-RAN Radio Unit OS Operating System PTP Precision Time Protocol RAN Radio Access Network RIC RAN Intelligent Controller SMO Service Management and Orchestration SUT System Under Test TS Technical Specification vCPU Virtual CPU VM Virtual Machine WG Working Group

# 4 Testing methodology

## 4.1 System under test
Interoperability testing is performed to validate the end-to-end functionality between the O-Cloud and peer devices or systems from different vendors connected by interfaces as defined in,[3],[4],[9],[10] and [11]. This document primarily focuses on scenarios where the System Under Test (SUT) for interoperability testing is comprised of different Device Under Test (DUTs) and its interconnecting IOT interface. SUT for O-Cloud IOT refers to the O-Cloud platform, peer devices, and interfaces provided by O-Cloud, as illustrated in Figure 5.1-1 of O-RAN WG1 O-RAN Architecture Description, Clause 5.1[1] and Architecture Diagram in Figure 4.2-1 of O-RAN WG6 AAL GAnP, Clause 4.2 [5] O-Cloud provides following APIs and Interfaces:
- O2ims interface as described in O-RAN.WG6.TS.O2IMS-INTERFACE [8].O2dms interface as described in
- O2dms interface as described in O-RAN.WG6.O2DMS-INTERFACE-K8S-PROFILE [10] for NF
Deployments.
- O-Cloud Notification API, as described in O-RAN.WG6.O-Cloud Notification API.[1].
- AAL interface, as described in O-RAN.WG6.AAL-Common-API [4].
Test scenarios encompass O-Cloud Notification API IOT, AAL interface IOT and O2 interface IOT as shown in Table 4.1-1, which summarizes the scope of O-Cloud IOT, and corresponding SUTs and DUTs for different test cases which can include Security, Synchronization, Error Handling, Rest Resource verification etc over the interfaces mentioned in the table below. DUTs SUT Test Interface/API Device1 Device2 Device1, Device2 and interconnecting IOT Interface Notification APIs O-Cloud O-CU/O-DU O-Cloud, O-CU/O-DU, Notification APIs IOT Notification APIs AAL Interface AAL AAL Application AAL implementation(O-Cloud), (AALI-C- implementation (O-CU/O-DU/…) AAL Application, AAL Interface App/AALI-P) (O-Cloud) (AALI-C-App/AALI-P) AAL Interface IOT AAL Interface O-Cloud (IMS) AAL HAM O-Cloud (IMS), AAL HAM, AAL (AALI-M) Interface (AALI-M) O2IMS Interface O-Cloud (IMS) SMO O-Cloud, SMO, O2IMS O2 Interface IOT O2DMS Interface O-Cloud (DMS) SMO O-Cloud, SMO, O2DMS The test configurations will involve defining the device pair and interface/API as part of the test scenario. The following figures show the high level SUT configurations for those IOT respectively. The test configurations for each specific test scenario will be detailed in their corresponding test clauses.

## 4.2 Test method

### 4.2.1 Objective
O-Cloud IOT test focus on verifying the functional correctness between device peers. Performance test and security test are not in the scope. To validate the functionality of production grade DUTs, it is important that the DUTs are not negatively impacted with the utilization of internal functions, so the Device in production environment should not be used for test. The DUTs are used as black boxes for positive testing, negative testing, abnormal testing, etc.

### 4.2.2 Testing Tools and set-up
Interoperability tests are performed with a set of testing tools which are used to both apply active stimulus and as well as monitoring and measurements of the DUTs. Non-DUT devices or corresponding emulation tools can be used as active stimulus during the test. Passive monitoring and measurement tools can be used to watch the status of DUTs, collect the information exchanges, and capture the logs during the test. There is no constrain on the number of DUTs, but there shall be at least one for each DUT. DUTs shall be connected by corresponding interface before the test. For each test is differ from others, the suggested tools and the set-up are be detailed in the corresponding configuration section of each test.

### 4.2.3 Testing procedure
In adherence to the specifications, the System Under Test (SUT) and the test tool are meticulously configured and connected to the device, strictly following the predefined conditions for each test case. The test steps outlined in the test case are executed sequentially. The tester is responsible for diligently documenting crucial test information during and after the testing process, enabling detailed comparisons and analyses against the expected outcomes. It is crucial to note that each test case remains independent of one another.

### 4.2.4 Statistics and analysis of key indicators
The test execution adheres to the predefined conditions and procedures specified in the test case. During the testing process, the tester may capture and record test result, including success or failure, along with corresponding metric data, such as throughput, latency, and device volume. The expected test results serve as the benchmark for evaluating the test success. If the actual test results align with the expected outcomes, the test is considered successful.

# 5 Notification API IOT

## 5.1 General
The main objective is to test the interoperability of different vendors' O-CU/O-DU with O-Cloud using notification- related APIs. This includes both push and pull modes for event notifications. As stated in Section 4.1, the SUT (System Under Test) for the Notification IOT test includes components such as O- Cloud and O-CU/O-DU/SMO. Each IOT test case offers a test purpose, test entrance criteria, initialization conditions, test procedure, and expected results. The main test scenarios covered are as follows: 1) Functional test of O-Cloud and O-CU/O-DU using notification subscription, query, deletion and event notification API. 2) Functional test of O-Cloud and O-CU/O-DU using notification pull API.

## 5.2 Test Configuration

### 5.2.1 System Under Test requirements
As shown in 5.2-1, the System Under Test (SUT) for the O-Cloud Notification IOT test consists of individual O-CU or O-DU components, along with the O-Cloud, which provides the notification framework. The notification framework includes an API producer; O-CU/O-DU act as consumers. O-Cloud, serving as an event generator, provides APIs to consumers for utilizing these events. These APIs can be used for subscribing to events, unsubscribing, querying subscriptions, and communicating with consumers using pull/push modes. At least one O-CU/O-DU and one O-Cloud is required for this test. O-CU/O-DU and O-Cloud are connected through network, and O-CU/O-DU is configured with the endpoint of notification API for the communication. Additionally, O-Cloud may need to support traffic mirroring for Protocol Analyzer to capture the requests and responses for analysing.

### 5.2.2 Test Tools and Simulators capabilities
A summary of the recommended testing tools for functional testing is shown as following: Protocol Analyzer is required for recording and validating Notification API functionary message sequences and contents and issuing of verdicts related to the procedures in the test cases and thereby enabling determination of the DUTs level of interoperability.

## 5.3 Test Cases

### 5.3.1 Push mode event notification

#### 5.3.1.1 Test Purpose
The purpose of this test case is to confirm that O-CU/O-DU, irrespective of the vendor, can manage the subscription resource and receive event notifications from O-Cloud. This test is conditional mandatory; for push mode, this case applies.

#### 5.3.1.2 Test Entrance Criteria
1) DUTs: O-CU/O-DU and O-Cloud. 2) CU/O-DU supports push mode Event Notification. 3) O-Cloud supports push mode Event Notification.

#### 5.3.1.3 Initial conditions
1) Protocol Analyzer has started. 2) Configure the O-Cloud or the network between the O-CU/O-DU and O-Cloud so that Protocol Analyzer can capture the messages between DUTs, as needed. 3) Activate the Protocol Analyzer to capture and decode Notification API message flows between the DUTs.

#### 5.3.1.4 Procedure
Step 1. Initiate a subscription procedure of the event notifications from O-CU/O-DU. Step 2. Initiate a query procedure from O-CU/O-DU, to get the list of subscription resources, check the output. Step 3. Initiate a query procedure from O-CU/O-DU, to get a specific subscription resource, check the output. Step 4. Trig a subscribed event. Step 5. Initiate a delete procedure from O-CU/O-DU, to delete a specific subscription resource, check the output. Step 6. Check the message flow recorded by Protocol Analyzer for interoperability verification. Example of how those procedures can be performed (or triggered) are listed below. The exact method to perform (or trigger) this procedure is out of scope of this specification and is left up to the implementation of the DUTs: a. O&M command in O-CU/O-DU to enable the subscription, query and deletion, for Step 1, 2, 3, 5, or to trig an event for Step 4. b. Reboot/restart O-CU/O-DU if O-CU/O-DU subscribes the notification automatically, for Step 1. c. Change the Synchronization status of the compute node if O-CU/O-DU subscribes the Synchronization Event, for Step 4.

#### 5.3.1.5 Expected Results
Successful completion of the test steps with interoperable communication between O-CU/O-DU and O-Cloud with the output as expected. Examine the message flow specified in O-RAN.O-Cloud Notification API [3] Section 4 and 5: In Step 1, a POST request from O-CU/O-DU to O-Cloud and a response from O-Cloud to O-CU/O-DU shall present, and followed with a sanity check of the notification endpoint if communication to the notification endpoint is successful. In Step 2, 3 and 5, a Get request and a response shall present. In Step 4, a notification of the event to O-CU/O-DU from O-Cloud shall present.

### 5.3.2 Pull mode event notification

#### 5.3.2.1 Test Purpose
The purpose of this test case is to verify O-CU/O-DU from a vendor different from O-Cloud can pull the event from Notification API Producer as specified in O-RAN.WG6.O-Cloud Notification API [3] clause 6. This test is conditional mandatory; for pull mode, this case applies.

#### 5.3.2.2 Test Entrance Criteria
1) DUTs: O-CU/O-DU and O-Cloud. 2) CU/O-DU has the capability to initiate an Event query, and the O-Cloud supports to response to the query requests. 3) O-Cloud supports pull mode Event Notification.

#### 5.3.2.3 Initial conditions
1) Protocol Analyzer has started. 2) Configure the O-Cloud or the network between the O-CU/O-DU and O-Cloud so that the Protocol Analyzer can capture the messages between DUTs. 3) Activate the Protocol Analyzer to capture and decode Notification API message flows between the DUTs.

#### 5.3.2.4 Procedure
Step 1. Initiate an event pull procedure from O-CU/O-DU. Step 2. Check the message flow recorded by Protocol Analyzer. Example of how those procedures can be performed (or triggered) are listed below. The exact method to perform (or trigger) this procedure is out of scope of this specification and is left up to the implementation of the DUTs: a. O&M command in O-CU/O-DU to initiate the pulling. b. O-CU/O-DU pulls events periodically, without human intervention.

#### 5.3.2.5 Expected Results
The procedures are successfully completed during the test. Examine the message flow specified in O-RAN.WG6.O-Cloud Notification API [3] clause 6: a GET request from O- CU/O-DU to O-Cloud and a response from O-Cloud to O-CU/O-DU shall present.

# 6 AAL Interface IOT

## 6.1 General
> NOTE: The interoperability tests for the AAL interface have not been specified in this
present document version. Future versions of the present document are expected to specify these interoperability tests.

## 6.2 Test Configuration

### 6.2.1 System Under Test requirements

### 6.2.2 Test Tools and Simulators capabilities

## 6.3 Test Cases

# 7 O2 Interface IOT

## 7.1 General
> NOTE: The interoperability tests for the O2 interface have not been specified in this
present document version. Future versions of the present document are expected to specify these interoperability tests.

## 7.2 Test Configuration

### 7.2.1 System Under Test requirements

### 7.2.2 Test Tools and Simulators capabilities

## 7.3 O2 IMS Test

### 7.3.1 General
The main objective of these O2IMS IOT tests is to validate the interoperability of IMS and FOCOM(SMO) over the O2 interface involving the use cases in ORAN WG6.ORCH-USE-CASES, clause 3 [12]. This can include orchestration use cases which have completed the Stage 3 specifications for O2IMS in ORAN WG6.TS.O2IMS-INTERFACE [9]. Some examples include fault use cases such as alarm subscription, notification or performance use cases such as performance management job creation in compliance with ORAN WG6.TS.O2IMS-INTERFACE [9] and O-Cloud Interface Conformance Test Specification ORAN WG6.TS.O-CLOUD-INTF-CONF [13].

### 7.3.2 Test Configurations

#### 7.3.2.1 System Under Test (SUT) Requirements
As shown in Figure 7.3.2.1-1, the system under test for the O-Cloud IMS IOT consist of FOCOM and IMS interconnected via O2ims interface which supports the O2ims API defined in [9]. The testing environment should include one FOCOM and one IMS to test interoperability from the same or different vendors.

#### 7.3.2.2 Test Tools and Simulators Capabilities
The following tools and simulator capabilities are recommended to effectively validate O2ims test cases
- Fault injection simulator to simulate hardware and software failures in O-Cloud to trigger certain alarm
conditions

## 7.4 O2 DMS Test

### 7.4.1 General

### 7.4.2 O2 DMS ETSI NFV Profile Test

#### 7.4.2.1 Test configuration

#### 7.4.2.2 Test case 1

### 7.4.3 O2 DMS Kubernetes Profile Test

#### 7.4.3.1 Test configuration

#### 7.4.3.2 Test case 1


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG6.O-Cloud Notification API-v04.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG6.O-Cloud Notification API-v04.00"
---

#### PTP Synchronization State

Table 37: Synchronization State Notification

| Property | Value | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| type | event.sync.ptp-status.ptp-state-change | Notification used to inform about ptp synchronization state change |
| source | /sync/ptp-status/lock-state | ptp-state-change notification is signalled from equipment at state change |
| value_type | enumeration |  |
| value | LOCKED | Equipment is in the locked mode, as defined in ITU-T G.810 |
| value | HOLDOVER | Equipment clock is in holdover mode, as defined in ITU-T G.810 |
| value | FREERUN | Equipment clock isn't locked to an input reference, and is not in the holdover mode, as defined in ITU-T G.810 |

#### Void

#### GNSS-Sync-State

Table 40: GNSS-Sync-State Notification

| Property | Value | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| type | event.sync.gnss-status.gnss-state-change | Notification used to inform about gnss synchronization state change |
| source | /sync/gnss-status/gnss-sync-status | gnss-state-change notification is signalled from equipment at state change |
| value_type | enumeration |  |
| value | SYNCHRONIZED | GNSS functionality is synchronized |
| value | ACQUIRING-SYNC | GNSS functionality is acquiring sync |
| value | ANTENNA-DISCONNECTED | GNSS functionality has its antenna disconnected |
| value | BOOTING | GNSS functionality is booting |
| value | ANTENNA-SHORT-CIRCUIT | GNSS functionality has an antenna short circuit |
| value | FAILURE-MULTIPATH | GNSS Sync Failure -  Multipath condition detected |
| value | FAILURE-NOFIX | GNSS Sync Failure - Unknown |
| value | FAILURE-LOW-SNR | GNSS Sync Failure - Low SNR condition detected |
| value | FAILURE-PLL | GNSS Sync Failure - PLL is not functioning |

#### OS Clock Sync-State

Table 37: OS clock Sync-State Notification

| Property | Value | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| type | event.sync.sync-status.os-clock-sync-state-change | The object contains information related to a notification |
| source | /sync/sync-status/os-clock-sync-state | State of node OS clock synchronization is notified at state change |
| value_type | enumeration |  |
| value | LOCKED | Operating System real-time clock is in the locked mode, node operating system clock is synchronized to traceable & valid time/phase source |
| value | HOLDOVER | Operating System real-time clock is in holdover mode |
| value | FREERUN | Operating System real-time clock isn't locked to an input reference, and is not in the holdover mode |

#### SyncE Lock-Status-Extended

This notification is a SyncE Lock-state notification that provides detail about the synce PLL states.

Table 39: SyncE-Extended Lock-State Notification

| Property | Value | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| type | event.sync.synce-status.synce-state-change | Notification used to inform about synce synchronization state change, enhanced state information |
| source | /sync/synce-status/lock-state | synce-state change notification is signalled from equipment at state change, enhanced information |
| value_type | enumeration |  |
| value | LOCKED | The integrated ordinary clock is synchronizing to the reference, recovered from SyncE signal |
| value | HOLDOVER | The integrated ordinary clock is not synchronizing to the reference recovered from the SyncE signal, and is in holdover mode |
| value | FREERUN | The integrated ordinary clock is not synchronizing to the reference, recovered from SyncE signal |
|  |  |  |

#### PTP Clock Class Change

A PTP Clock Class change notification is generated when the PTP clock change attribute in the Announce message changes.

Table 36: PTP Clock class change Notification

| Property | Value | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| type | event.sync.ptp-status.ptp-clock-class-change | Notification used to inform about ptp clock class changes. |
| source | /sync/ptp-status/clock-class | ptp-clock-class-change notification is generated when the clock-class changes. |
| value_type | metric |  |
| value | Uint8 | New clock class attribute |

#### SyncE Clock Quality Change

A SyncE Clock Quality change notification is generated when the SyncE clock quality attribute in the ESMC message changes.

Table 43: SyncE Clock class change Notification

| Property | Value | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| type | event.sync.synce-status.synce-clock-quality-change | Notification used to inform about changes in the clock quality of the primary SyncE signal advertised in ESMC packets |
| source | /sync/synce-status/clock-quality | synce-clock-quality-change notification is generated when the clock-quality changes. |
| value_type | metric |  |
| value | Uint8 | New clock quality attribute |

|  |
| --- |

## Appendix A

### Helper/Sidecar containers

Reference: https://kubernetes.io/blog/2015/06/the-distributed-system-toolkit-patterns/

Helper/Sidecar containers extend and enhance the "main" container, they take existing containers and make them better.

As an example, consider a container that runs the Nginx web server.  Add a different container that syncs the file system with a git repository, share the file system between the containers and one has built built Git push-to-deploy. And it has been done in a modular manner where the git synchronizer can be built by a different team, and can be reused across many different web servers (Apache, Python, Tomcat, etc).  Because of this modularity, the git synchronizer may be written and tested only once and reused across numerous apps.

### Helper/Sidecar value:

Interacts with the notification framework on behalf of the vO-DU

Decouples the app logic from the notification framework, hence removes the burden of implementing a lot of code on the vO-DU and maintaining this code

Single secure and reliable API endpoint since it is exposed over the localhost

- Eliminating the discovery of an external pod implementation


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG6.O2-GAnP-v01.02.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG6.O2-GA&P-v01.02 Technical Specification"
---


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG6.O2DMS-INTERFACE-ETSI-NFV-PROFILE-R004-v09.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG6.O2DMS-INTERFACE- Technical Specification O2dms Interface Specification: Profile based on ETSI NFV"
---


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG6.O2DMS-INTERFACE-K8S-PROFILE-R004-v06.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG6.O2DMS-INTERFACE-K8S- Technical Specification O2dms Interface Specification: Kubernetes Native API Profile"
---

# 3 O2dms Service Definitions

## 3.1 General
This section provides details of the O2dms interface capabilities for NF Deployment lifecycle management exposed to the SMO using the O2dms Kubernetes profile. The O2dms Kubernetes profile exposes a REST based interface to the SMO from the API Server function of Kubernetes native control plane. The protocol stack used by O2dms Kubernetes profile for secure communication between the SMO and the target Kubernetes cluster is depicted in Figure 3.1-1. This protocol stack enables a secure transfer of the Kubernetes native API resource manifests from the SMO to the target Kubernetes cluster.

### 3.1.1 The O2dms Services Supported
In this specification, the Kubernetes native APIs provide all the required capabilities to the SMO for NF Deployment lifecycle management in a Kubernetes cluster. The Kubernetes native APIs are exposed by the API Server function of the Kubernetes native control plane and is the common denominator for the SMO to manage containerized workloads on Kubernetes based O-Clouds. The Kubernetes API Sever exposes a REST based interface, offering CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) operations using Kubernetes native resource manifests. Aligned with this REST interface, the ORAN WG6 use cases captured in [2] for lifecycle management of NF Deployments are realized by using the API Server’s supported operations (CRUD) and data model (Kubernetes native resource manifests).

### 3.1.2 Instantiate NF Deployment
The instantiate NF Deployment use case enables the SMO to start the execution of a NF Deployment on a Kubernetes cluster that meets the NF Deployment’s execution requirements. In the O2dms Kubernetes profile, the instantiate NF Deployment use case is realized by secured transfer of the Kubernetes native resource manifests of the Kubernetes native resource objects from the SMO to the API Server function in the target Kubernetes cluster. An NF Deployment is usually composed of different Kubernetes native resource objects (e.g., Deployments, ConfigMaps, etc.) and a secured transfer of all Kubernetes manifests is required for successful completion of the instantiate NF Deployment use case. the NF Deployment instantiation use case in [2]. Use Case Stage Evolution/Specification Use Case Instantiate NF Deployment on a selected Kubernetes cluster Goal The goal of this use case is to instantiate an NF Deployment on a Kubernetes cluster that has been selected by the SMO to host that NF Deployment Actors and roles - NFO: The NFO initiates the NF Deployment instantiation process
- Kubernetes API Server: O2dms termination point in Kubernetes cluster
Preconditions - NFO is active and running normally
- Kubernetes API server is accessible via O2dms interface
Begins when The SMO decides to instantiate an NF Deployment on a Kubernetes cluster Step 1 (M) A request to instantiate a new NF Deployment is received by the NFO from an authorised NFO service consumer (e.g., rApp) with an identifier for the NF Deployment. (NOTE 1,
> NOTE 2)
Step 2 (M) The NFO sends the Kubernetes native resource manifests to the API Server function in the chosen Kubernetes cluster using O2dms interface by making an HTTP POST call(s) to the respective resource URL with the Kubernetes resource manifest as payload. Step 3 (M) The API Server function authenticates the request and validates the resource manifests and creates the respective resource objects in the Kubernetes cluster. (NOTE 3, NOTE 4) Step 4 (M) The API Server responds to the NFO by acknowledging the creation of the requested resource objects in the Kubernetes cluster. (NOTE 5) Ends when This use case ends when the NF Deployment is up and running in the chosen Kubernetes cluster.
> NOTE 1: The NF Deployment identifier provided is used by the NFO to get related artifacts for that NF
Deployment (e.g., ASD, Helm Charts).
> NOTE 2: The NFO generates parameterized Kubernetes native resource manifests from the NF Deployment
artifacts (e.g., ASD, Helm Charts).
> NOTE 3: The creation of a Kubernetes resource object results in an internal notification to the worker nodes that
the NF Deployment resources need to be instantiated.
> NOTE 4: A worker node responsible for the workload execution fetches the container images from the image
registery specified in the Kubernetes resource manifests files and starts its execution on that node.
> NOTE 5: There may be a delay between the Success response from the API Server to the NFO and the actual
execution of the containerized workload on the Kubernetes cluster due to several reasons including, for example, the time it takes to pull the container images from the registry, the allocation of the resources to the container and the initialization of the application inside the containers. The NFO may check the status of the NF Deployment instantiation via O2dms to validate successful instantiation of the NF Deployment.

### 3.1.3 Terminate NF Deployment
The terminate NF Deployment use case requires the SMO to stop the execution of a NF Deployment on a Kubernetes cluster and release all resources that are used by that NF Deployment. In the O2dms Kubernetes profile, the terminate NF Deploymnt use case is realized by deleting all Kubernetes native resource objects belonging to the NF Deployment from the Kubernetes cluster that is running the NF Deployment. Figure 3.1.3-1 exemplifies the terminate NF Deployment use case flow in O2dms Kubernetes profile aligned with the NF Deployment termination use case in [2]. Use Case Stage Evolution/Specification Use Case Terminate NF Deployment on a selected Kubernetes cluster Goal The goal of this use case is to terminate an NF Deployment on a Kubernetes cluster that is hosting it and release all resources used by that NF Deployment Actors and roles - NFO: The NFO executes the NF Deployment termination process
- Kubernetes API Server: O2dms termination point in Kubernetes cluster
Preconditions - NFO is active and running normally
- Kubernetes cluster is running normally
- Kubernetes API server is accessible via O2dms interface
Begins when The SMO decides to terminate an NF Deployment on a Kubernetes cluster Step 1 (M) A request to terminate an NF Deployment is received by the NFO with an identifier for that workload. (NOTE 1, NOTE 2) Step 2 (M) The NFO requests the deletion of all Kubernetes resource objects belonging to the NF Deployment from the API Server function in the target Kubernetes cluster by sending HTTP DELETE request(s) to the respective resource URL. Step 3 (M) The API Server function authenticates the request and deletes the requested resource objects from the Kubernetes cluster. (NOTE 3, NOTE 4) Step 4 (M) The API Server responds to the NFO by informing it about the resource objects that have been deleted from Kubernetes cluster. (NOTE 5) Ends when This use case ends when an NF Deployment running in a Kubernetes cluster is terminated, and all resources used by that NF Deployment are released.
> NOTE 1: The SMO may use the provided NF Deployment instance identifier for determining the Kubernetes cluster
running that NF Deployment instance.
> NOTE 2: The NFO determines all the Kubernetes resources objects that collectively represent the NF Deployment in
the target Kubernetes cluster.
> NOTE 3: The deletion of a Kubernetes resource object results in an internal notification to the worker nodes to
release any resources used by the terminated NF Deployment.
> NOTE 4: The Kubernetes worker nodes automatically stop the execution of any workloads for which the Kubernetes
native resource objects have been deleted from the Kubernetes cluster.
> NOTE 5: There may be a delay between the Success response from the API Server to the SMO and the actual
termination of NF Deployment and release of resources in the Kubernetes cluster. The NFO may check the status of the NF Deployment termination via O2dms to validate successful termination of the NF Deployment.

### 3.1.4 Heal NF Deployment
Recovery of an NF Deployment from failures is documented in [2] clause 3.6.2, which describes an NF Deployment level healing use case based on either auto-healing support in the O-Cloud platform or SMO triggered healing over O2dms interface. Based on these healing triggers, the use case describes corrective actions that can be taken for NF Deployment healing in the O-Cloud such as restarting, replacing and/or reallocating O-Cloud resources belonging to the NF Deployment. This section describes the NF Deployment level healing use case for healing NF Deployments on a K8s cluster using O2dms K8s profile.

#### 3.1.4.1 Auto Healing of NF Deployment in a Kubernetes cluster
Auto-healing of NF Deployment refers to the intrinsic capabilities of the O-Cloud platform to monitor the workloads and initiate corrective actions automatically when runtime errors/faults are detected by the O-Cloud platform. The Kubernetes platform provides auto-healing features based on continuous monitoring of the running containerized workloads (e.g., Pods) using liveness checks at the application layer. A workload designed for Kubernetes is expected to pass these liveness checks to be considered as healthy workload running in the K8s cluster. If the liveness checks fail for a workload, the Kubernetes control plane automatically replaces the failing workload with a new copy. When the restart and replacement mechanics of Kubernetes auto-healing process are not sufficient for the full recovery of the NF Deployment, the SMO may trigger NF Deployment healing using O2dms interface.

#### 3.1.4.2 SMO triggered Healing of NF Deployment in a Kubernetes cluster
Based on monitoring of the NF Deployment using O2 interface, the SMO may detect the need and decide to heal an NF Deployment using O2dms interface. This SMO triggered healing over O2dms may occur independently from any auto- healing features running in the O-Cloud platform for healing NF Deployment. In the O2dms K8s profile, the SMO triggered NF Deployment healing is realized by creating, modifying and/or deleting K8s native resource objects belonging to the NF Deployment experiencing failures. Figure 3.1.4-1 exemplifies the SMO triggered healing of NF Deployment using the O2dms K8s profile. Use Case Stage Evolution/Specification Use Case Healing of an NF Deployment on a Kubernetes cluster Goal The goal of this use case is to heal an NF Deployment by the SMO using O2dms K8s profile Actors and roles - NFO: The NFO executes the NF Deployment healing process
- Kubernetes API Server: O2dms termination point in Kubernetes cluster
Preconditions The NF Deployment has been previously instantiated by the SMO Begins when The SMO decides to heal an NF Deployment on a Kubernetes cluster Step 1 The NFO receives a request to initiate NF Deploymet healing e.g., from an rApp. (NOTE) Step 2, 3, 4 If the NFO decides to heal the NF Deployment by creating additional K8s resource objects, it shall send the new K8s resource manifests using HTTP POST request(s) to the K8s API server (2). The K8s API server will create the new resource objects (3) and informs the NFO about the resource object creation (4). Step 5, 6, 7 If the NFO decides to heal the NF Deployment by modifying its K8s resource objects, it shall send updated K8s resource manifests using HTTP PUT/PATCH request(s) to the K8s API server (5). The K8s API server will update the NF Deployment resource objects (6) and informs the NFO about the resource object updates (7). Step 8, 9, 10 If the NFO decides to heal the NF Deployment by deleting some of the K8s resource objects belong to the NF Deployment, it shall delete those K8s resource objects using HTTP DELETE request(s) to the K8s API server (8). The K8s API server will delete the requested resource objects (9) and informs the NFO about the resource object deletion (10). Ends when This use case ends when the NF Deployment running in a Kubernetes cluster is recovered from failures.
> NOTE: The NFO determines the K8s resource objects belonging to the NF Deployment requiring updates
(CRUD operations) for healing the NF Deployment.

### 3.1.5 Software Upgrade of NF Deployment
This section describes the use case for SMO managed software upgrade of an NF Deployment and its realization based on O2dms K8s API profile.

#### 3.1.5.1 Build-and-Replace Software Upgrade
This section illustrates a build-and-replace NF Deployment upgrade approach in which an NF Deployment using old software version is replaced by a new and independently deployed instance using newer software version. This approach utilizes a graceful or soft upgrade where the old NF Deployment is not removed from a K8s cluster until this can be done without disrupting existing traffic that the NF Deployment supports. Upon receiving a request to upgrade software of a particular NF Deployment, the SMO instantiates a new NF Deployment according to the procedure described in section 3.1.2 (Instantiate NF Deployment). The new instance is created independently and uses newer software version of the NF Deployment. If an exception occurs during the instantiation step that causes the new NF Deployment not to be created successfully, the operation is rolled back and further actions aborted i.e., the new NF Deployment instance is removed, and the old NF Deployment continues to provide service as before. After the new NF Deployment instantiation is successful, the SMO may trigger further actions e.g., O1 configuration of parts of the NF related to the NF Deployment. Once the new NF Deployment is up and running, the old NF Deployment is terminated according to the procedure described in section 3.1.3 (Terminate NF Deployment).

### 3.1.6 Scale NF Deployment

#### 3.1.6.1 Overview
The Scale NF Deployment use case concerns allocation of additional or deallocation of existing K8s resources to/from an NF Deployment. This enables the SMO to increase or decrease the NF Deployment’s service capacity to the required service level. The allocation or deallocation of resources for scaling and subsequent change in NF Deployment service level happens within the bounds of resources available in the K8s cluster running that NF Deployment. In the O2dms K8s profile, Scale NF Deployment may be realized either by SMO managed scaling or by automatic scaling in the K8s cluster. These approaches enable different types of scaling such as scale-out, scale-in, scale-up, and scale-down of NF Deployment.

#### 3.1.6.2 SMO managed scale
The SMO may initiate scaling of NF Deployment by creating new or updating the existing K8s resources belonging to that NF Deployment in the K8s cluster. The SMO may explicitly set parameters for K8s workload resources of the NF Deployment (e.g., Deployments, StatefulSets) or manage K8s HorizontalPodAutoscaler (HPA) resource (see clause 4.3.1.4) for auto-scaling. These approaches to scaling may manifest in the following ways:
- SMO setting min/max replica count values for the HPA resource belonging to an NF Deployment. See clause
3.1.6.3 for HPA resource.
- SMO setting explicit replica counts values for K8s workload resource e.g., Deployments, Statefulsets.
- SMO creating new or updating existing NF Deployment resources for which K8s auto-scaling does not apply
e.g., storage, networking etc. Scale NF Deployment in a K8s cluster may result in allocation/deallocation of K8s resources related to compute, storage, networking, acceleration, etc. As part of the SMO managed scaling, K8s resources belonging to one or multiple DeploymentItems in the NF Deployment ASD package may be updated (e.g., executing a “helm upgrade” with updated lifecycle parameter values for one or multiple helm charts in the ASD package). Use Case Stage Evolution/Specification Use Case Scale NF Deployment on a Kubernetes cluster to desired service level. Goal The goal of this use case is to scale an NF Deployment to a desired service level by the SMO using O2dms K8s profile. Actors and roles - SMO: The SMO initiates the scaling of NF Deployment.
- Kubernetes API Server: O2dms termination point in Kubernetes cluster.
Preconditions The NF Deployment has been previously instantiated by the SMO. Begins when The SMO decides to scale an NF Deployment on a K8s cluster. Step 1 The SMO receives a trigger to scale an NF Deployment to a new service level. (Alt choice) The SMO decides to scale the NF Deployment by creating additional K8s resources. The additional resources may belong to one or multiple of the DeploymentItems specified in the ASD package of the NF Deployment. Step 2 (M) The SMO sends new K8s native resource objects using HTTP POST request(s) to the K8s API server. Step 3 (M) The K8s API server creates the new K8s resources for the NF Deployment. Step 4 (M) The K8s API server informs the SMO about resource creation. (Alt choice) The SMO decides to scale an NF Deployment by updating/modifying its existing resources in the K8s cluster. Step 5 (M) The SMO sends updated K8s resource objects using HTTP PUT/PATCH request(s) to the K8s API server. Step 6 (M) The K8s API server updates the NF Deployment resources for scaling the workload. Step 7 (M) The K8s API server informs the SMO about the resource updates. Ends when This use case ends when the NF Deployment running in a Kubernetes cluster is scaled to the desired service level.

#### 3.1.6.3 Kubernetes sutoscaling
K8s inherently supports automatic scaling of workloads based on autoscaling triggers specified for K8s workload resources such as K8s Deployments and StatefulSets. The K8s HorizontalPodAutoscaler resource (see clause 4.3.1.4) may be used to specify minimum and maximum replica count for K8s Pods belonging to an NF Deployment. The HorizontalPodAutoscaler resources may be created as part of NF Deployment instantiation process or as part of a later update. To scale an NF Deployment and increase/decrease its service capacity, the K8s cluster running the NF Deployment will automatically create new K8s Pods or reduce the number of existing Pods in the K8s cluster. These changes in the number of Pods are governed by specified minimum and maximum replica count numbers in the HPA resource and resource availability in the K8s cluster. Autoscaling of the NF Deployment resources is performed by K8s within the bounds of the HPA resources. The criteria based on which Kubernetes decides when to invoke automatic scaling or how the autoscaling is achieved are outside the scope of the present document.

# 4 O2dms Service Definitions for Kubernetes

## 4.1 General
The O2dms profile for Kubernetes is based on the usage of Kubernetes native APIs and data model as O2dms interface. Kubernetes offers a native REST based, secured interface with a large set of cluster-scoped and namespace-scoped resource objects as data model. This chapter provides the details of these K8s native APIs and data model.

## 4.2 Referenced Cloud-Native APIs and Data Model Solutions

### 4.2.1 Kubernetes API overview
At high-level, the Kubernetes API [4] structure has a grouping of the managed K8s resource objects which represent K8s resource categories. The generic concepts are introduced regarding the data model of the managed K8s resource objects in Kubernetes.

#### 4.2.1.1 API Structure
The Kubernetes API [4] managed objects represent a concrete instance of a K8s resource type on the Kubernetes cluster. Kubernetes leverages standard RESTful terminology to describe the API concepts:
- A K8s resource is a single instance of a K8s resource type (Note: Throughout this document, to distinguish a
"resource" in context of Kubernetes from the "resources" used in a different O-RAN context, this will now be called a "K8s resource")
- A K8s resource type is the name used in the URL
- All K8s resource types have a representation in JSON (their object schema) which is called a kind
- A list of instances of a K8s resource type is known as a collection
All K8s resource types are either scoped by the Kubernetes cluster (e.g., /apis/GROUP/VERSION/*) or to a namespace (e.g., /apis/GROUP/VERSION/namespaces/NAMESPACE/*).

##### 4.2.1.1.1 API Verbs
API verbs GET, CREATE, UPDATE, PATCH, DELETE and PROXY support single K8s resources only. These verbs with single K8s resource support have no support for submitting multiple K8s resources together in an ordered or unordered list or transaction. API verbs LIST and WATCH support getting multiple K8s resources, and DELETECOLLECTION supports deleting multiple K8s resources.

##### 4.2.1.1.2 K8s resource Objects
The Kubernetes API [4] supports read and write operations on the K8s resource objects via a Kubernetes API endpoint. Kubernetes differentiates the following categories of K8s resource objects managed via their APIs:
- Workloads: objects used to manage and run OS containers on the Kubernetes cluster.
- Discovery & Loadbalancing: objects used to inter-connect the workloads into externally accessible, load-
balanced services.
- Configuration & Storage: objects used to inject initialization data into the containerized applications, and to
persist data that is external to the OS containers.
- Cluster: objects define how the Kubernetes cluster itself is configured.
- Metadata: objects used to configure the behavior of other K8s resources within the Kubernetes cluster.
Note: There are some Kubernetes resource objects (e.g., ClusterRoles, CustomResourceDefinitions, StorageClasses etc.) which the SMO may manage separately from the containerized workload resource management. These are FFS.

#### 4.2.1.2 Data model concepts
The K8s resource objects are modelled with individual object schemas. All K8s resource objects typically have 3 components:
- K8s resource ObjectMeta: The metadata about the K8s resource object, such as its name, type, api version,
annotations, and labels. This schema, which is common to all K8s resource types, contains fields that maybe updated both by the SMO and the Kuberneters cluster’s internal control plane.
- K8s resourceSpec: It is defined by the SMO and describes the desired state of system concerning the K8s
resource object. Specified when creating or modifying a K8s resource object is requested.
- K8s resourceStatus: Provided by the Kubernetes cluster’s internal control plane and represents the current
state of the system concerning the K8s resource object.

#### 4.2.1.3 O2dms Procedures
The following are the list of Kubernetes procedures supported by the O2dms:
- CREATE: The CREATE procedure enables the SMO to instantiate a workload on the target Kubernetes
cluster. This procedure requires a namespace and a specified K8s resource type.
- READ:
o GET: The GET procedure enables the SMO to retrieve and read a specified workload from a target Kubernetes cluster. This procedure requires a namespace, a specified K8s resource type, and the name of the K8s resource. o LIST: The LIST procedure enables the SMO to list or watch a specified workload type from a target Kubernetes cluster. This procedure requires a namespace and a specified K8s resource type.
- UPDATE:
o PATCH: The PATCH procedure enables the SMO to partially update a workload in a Kubernetes cluster. This procedure requires a namespace, a specified K8s resource type, and the name of the K8s resource. o REPLACE: The REPLACE procedure enables the SMO to replace a workload in a target Kubernetes cluster. This procedure requires a namespace, a specified K8s resource type, the name of the K8s resource.
- DELETE: The DELETE procedure enables the SMO to terminate a workload(s) in a target Kubernetes
cluster. This procedure requires a namespace, a specified K8s resource type, and the name of the K8s resource.

## 4.3 Referenced K8s resource objects
The Kubernetes APIs and resource objects are fully specified by the open-source Kubernetes project and this document adopts those definitions, APIs, and resource objects [5]. For the purposes of this document, the terms and definitions for Kubernetes API resource objects given in [5] would apply. This section provides details of relevant K8s APIs and resource objects along with recommended use and constraints, if any.

### 4.3.1 Kubernetes Native Namespace Scoped Resource Objects

#### 4.3.1.1 Kubernetes native workload resources

##### 4.3.1.1.1 Pod

# A Pod is the smallest and most basic deployable unit of functionality in a K8s cluster. A Pod resource represents a single instance of one or multiple containers that are scheduled and run on a single worker node in a K8s cluster. The
containers in a Pod are managed as a single unit and share the Pod’s networking and storage resources. Resource Field Resource Field Type Resource Field Description apiVerison string Defines the versioned schema of the Pod resource. kind string Represents the REST resource for Pod resource. The K8s API Server may infer this from the endpoint the client submits the request to. The value cannot be updated. metadata ObjectMeta Standard metadata of the Pod resource [6]. spec PodSpec Specifies the desired behavior of the Pod resource. status PodStatus Represents the most recent observed status of the Pod resource. the SMO to lifecycle manage a K8s Pod resource in a chosen K8s cluster using O2dms K8s profile, it shall use the URIs, and HTTP methods listed in Table 4.3.1.1.1-2 with K8s standard query and body parameters for Pod resource included in the HTTP request [5]. Relevant Pod Resource URIs Supported HTTP Methods /api/v1/namespaces/{namespace}/pods • POST: Create a Pod resource in the specified namespace
- GET: List or watch Pod resources in the namespace
- DELETE: Delete all Pods resources from the
namespace /api/v1/namespaces/{namespace}/pods/{name} • PUT: Replace the Pod resource in the namespace
- PATCH: Partial update the Pod resource in the
namespace
- DELETE: Delete the Pod resource from the namespace
- GET: Get status of the Pod resource in the namespace
/api/v1/namespaces/{namespace}/pods/{name}/eviction • POST: Terminate the running Pod instance
> NOTE: A Pod resource should not be created directly via O2dms because a Pod resource created directly is not
managed by K8s control plane and it cannot repair or replace itself. A Pod resources should be created through K8s controller resources instead (e.g., Deployment, Job, Statefulset).

##### 4.3.1.1.2 Deployment

# A K8s deployment resource is used for running one or multiple identical stateless Pods in a K8s cluster. A Deployment
resource ensures that the desired number of replicas of a Pod are running at any given time by replacing any failed or unresponsive Pod instances. The Deployment resource object contains the Pod resource template which specifies the details of the Pods to be created and instantiated on K8s worker node/s. Deployment resource is generally used for running stateless applications in K8s clusters since it does not provide a unique identity to the Pods it manages. Resource Field Resource Field Type Resource Field Description apiVerison string Defines the versioned schema of the Deployment resource. kind string Represents the REST resource for Deployment resource. The K8s API Server may infer this from the endpoint the client submits the request to. The value cannot be updated. metadata ObjectMeta Standard metadata of the Deployment resource [6]. spec DeploymentSpec Specifies the desired behavior of the Deployment resource. status DeploymentStatus Represents the most recent observed status of the Deployment resource. interface. For the SMO to lifecycle manage a K8s Deployment resource in a chosen K8s cluster using O2dms K8s profile, it shall use the URIs, and HTTP methods listed in Table 4.3.1.1.2-2 with K8s standard query and body parameters for Deployment resource included in the HTTP request [5]. Relevant Deployment Resource URIs Supported HTTP Methods /apis/apps/v1/namespaces/{namespace}/deployments • POST: Create a Deployment resource in the specified namesapce
- GET: List or watch Deployment resources in the
namespace
- DELETE: Delete all Deployment resources from the
namespace /apis/apps/v1/namespaces/{namespace}/deployments/ • PUT: Replace the Deployment resource in the {name} namespace
- PATCH: Partial update the Deployment resource in the
namespace
- DELETE: Delete the Deployment resource from the
namespace
- GET: Read the Deployment resource in the namespace
> NOTE: The creation of a Deployment resource in a K8s cluster also results in the creation of the K8s ReplicaSet
resource in the same cluster. The ReplicaSet resource ensures that the number of Pods running in the cluster are equal to the number requested in the Deployment resource. A Deployment resource should be used instead of creating the ReplicaSet resource directly. The K8s Deployment resource fully substitutes the ReplicaSet functions and should be used in most cases.

##### 4.3.1.1.3 StatefulSet

# A K8s statefulset resource is used for running one or multiple stateful Pods that maintain unique and persistent
identities and hostnames during their lifetime. The Pods belonging to a StatefulSet resource are created from the same Pod spec but maintain their individual identities across any rescheduling events caused by Pod failures. In addition, statefulsets provide an ordered and graceful deployment and scaling of Pods in K8s clusters. By default, the Pod deployment for statefulsets is done in sequential order and termination in reverse order but this behavior can be overridden. For state persistency, StatefulSet resources are generally paired with persistent storage volumes and this paired relationship is maintained across Pod rescheduling events. Resource Field Resource Field Type Resource Field Description apiVerison string Defines the versioned schema of the StatefulSet resource. kind string Represents the REST resource for StatefulSet resource. The K8s API Server may infer this from the endpoint the client submits the request to. The value cannot be updated. metadata ObjectMeta Standard metadata of the StatefulSet resource [6]. spec StatefulSetSpec Specifies the desired identities of the Pods in the StatefulSet resource. status StatefulSetStatus Represents the most recent observed status of the Pods in the StatefulSet. interface. For the SMO to lifecycle manage a K8s StatefulSet resource in a chosen K8s cluster using O2dms K8s profile, it shall use the URIs, and HTTP methods listed in Table 4.3.1.1.3-2 with K8s standard query and body parameters for StatefulSet resource included in the HTTP request [5]. Relevant StatefulSet Resource URIs Supported HTTP Methods /apis/apps/v1/namespaces/{namespace}/statefulsets • POST: Create a StatefulSet resource in the specified namespace
- GET: List or watch all StatefulSet resources in the
namespace
- DELETE: Delete all StatefulSet resources from the
namespace /apis/apps/v1/namespaces/{namespace}/statefulsets/ • PUT: Replace the StatefulSet resource in the namespace {name} • PATCH: Partial update the StatefulSet resource in the namespace
- DELETE: Delete the StatefulSet resource from the
namespace
- GET: Read the StatefulSet resource in the namespace

##### 4.3.1.1.4 DaemonSet

# A K8s DaemonSet resource is used for running a Pod instance on all or a subset of the worker nodes in a K8s cluster. If
the cluster scales up or down i.e., worker nodes are added ore removed from the cluster, the daemonset Pods are scaled accordingly to ensure that one Pod per worker node requirement is met. Resource Field Resource Field Type Resource Field Description apiVerison string Defines the versioned schema of the DaemonSet resource. kind string Represents the REST resource for DaemonSet resource. The K8s API Server may infer this from the endpoint the client submits the request to. The value cannot be updated. metadata ObjectMeta Standard metadata of the DaemonSet resource [6]. spec DaemonSetSpec Specifies the desired behavior of the DaemonSet resource. status DaemonSetStatus Represents the most recent observed status of the DaemonSet resource. interface. For the SMO to lifecycle manage a K8s DeamonSet resource in a K8s cluster using O2dms K8s profile, it shall use the URIs, and HTTP methods listed in Table 4.3.1.1.4-2 with K8s standard query and body parameters for DeamonSet resource included in the HTTP request [5]. Relevant DaemonSet Resource URIs Supported HTTP Methods /apis/apps/v1/namespaces/{namespace}/daemonsets • POST: Create a DaemonSet resource in specified namespace
- GET: List or watch all DaemonSet resources in the
namespace
- DELETE: Delete all DaemonSet resources from the
namespace /apis/apps/v1/namespaces/{namespace}/daemonsets/ • PUT: Replace the DaemonSet resource in the {name} namespace
- PATCH: Partial update the DaemonSet resource in the
namespace
- DELETE: Delete the DaemonSet resource from the
namespace
- GET: Read the DaemonSet resource in the namespace

##### 4.3.1.1.5 Job

# A K8s Job resource is used for running workloads in K8s clusters that run to completion and are terminated after
completion. A Job resource can create one or more Pods and execute them until a specified number of Jobs are successfully terminated. A Job resource tracks successful completions of Pod executions and upon reaching the desired number of completions, the Job is considered complete. Resource Field Resource Field Type Resource Field Description apiVerison string Defines the versioned schema of the Job resource. kind string Represents the REST resource for Job resource. The K8s API Server may infer this from the endpoint the client submits the request to. The value cannot be updated. metadata ObjectMeta Standard metadata of the Job resource [6]. spec JobSpec Specifies the desired behavior of the Job resource. status JobStatus Represents the most recent observed status of the Job resource. the SMO to lifecycle manage a Job resource in a chosen K8s cluster using O2dms K8s profile, it shall use the URIs, and HTTP methods listed in Table 4.3.1.1.5-2 with K8s standard query and body parameters for Job resource included in the HTTP request [5]. Relevant Job Resource URIs Supported HTTP Methods /apis/batch/v1/namespaces/{namespace}/jobs • POST: Create a Job resource in specified namespace
- GET: List or watch all Job resources in the namespace
- DELETE: Delete all Job resources from the namespace
/apis/batch/v1/namespaces/{namespace}/jobs/ • PUT: Replace the Job resource in the namespace {name} • PATCH: Partial update the Job resource in the namespace
- DELETE: Delete the Job resource from the namespace
- GET: Read the Job resource in the namespace

##### 4.3.1.1.6 CronJob

# A K8s CronJob resource is used for running K8s Jobs on a pre-defined time schedule provided in Linux/Unix Cron
format. The time schedule of the CronJob resource follows the timezone set for the K8s native kube-controller-manager function. Resource Field Resource Field Type Resource Field Description apiVerison string Defines the versioned schema of the CronJob resource. kind string Represents the REST resource for CronJob resource. The K8s API Server may infer this from the endpoint the client submits the request to. The value cannot be updated. metadata ObjectMeta Standard metadata of the CronJob resource [6]. spec CronJobSpec Specifies the desired behavior of the CronJob resource. status CronJobStatus Represents the most recent observed status of the CronJob resource. For the SMO to lifecycle manage a CronJob resource in a chosen K8s cluster using O2dms K8s profile, it shall use the URIs, and HTTP methods listed in Table 4.3.1.1.6-2 with K8s standard query and body parameters for CronJob resource included in the HTTP request [5]. Relevant CronJob Resource URIs Supported HTTP Methods /apis/batch/v1/namespaces/{namespace}/cronjobs • POST: Create a CronJob resource in specified namespace
- GET: List or watch all CronJob resources in the namespace
- DELETE: Delete all CronJob resources from the namespace
/apis/batch/v1/namespaces/{namespace}/cronjobs/ • PUT: Replace the CronJob resource in the namespace {name} • PATCH: Partial update the CronJob resource in the namespace
- DELETE: Delete the CronJob resource from the namespace
- GET: Read the CronJob resource in the namespace

#### 4.3.1.2 Kubernetes native discovery and load balancing resources

##### 4.3.1.2.1 Service

# A K8s Service resource is used for exposing a containerized workload/application running in a K8s cluster to internal
and external clients. The Service resource also abstracts the ephemeral nature of Pods and containers by creating a constant point of entry to the group of Pods that provide the same functionality. Each Service gets an IP address and port number that does not change during the lifetime of the Service resource in the K8s cluster. In addition, the Service resource provides load-balancing across all Pod instances that provide the same functionality. Kubernetes supports five types of Service resources identified as ClusterIP, NodePort, LoadBalancer, ExternalName and Headless Service with ClusterIP being the default Service type. Resource Field Resource Field Resource Field Description Type apiVersion string Defines the versioned schema of the Service resource. kind string Represents the REST resource for Service resource. The K8s API Server may infer this from the endpoint the client submits the request to. The value cannot be updated. metadata ObjectMeta Standard metadata of the Service resource [6] spec ServiceSpec Specifies the desired behavior and type of the Service resource status ServiceStatus Read only. Represents the most recent observed status of the Service resource For the SMO to lifecycle manage a Service resource in a chosen K8s cluster using O2dms K8s profile, it shall use the URIs, and HTTP methods listed in Table 4.3.1.2.1-2 with K8s standard query and body parameters for Service resource included in the HTTP request [5]. Relevant Service Resource URIs Supported HTTP Methods /api/v1/namespaces/{namespace}/services • POST: Create a Service resource in the specified namespace
- GET: List or watch all Service resources in the namespace
- DELETE: Delete all Service resources from the namespace
/api/v1/namespaces/{namespace}/services/{name} • PUT: Replace the Service resource in the namespace
- PATCH: Partial update the Service resource in the
namespace
- DELETE: Delete the Service resource from the namespace
- GET: Read the Service resource in the namespace

##### 4.3.1.2.2 Ingress

# A K8s Ingress resource is used for defining HTTP(s) routing rules that control external access to applications running
inside the K8s cluster. A K8s Ingress resource can be associated with one or more K8s Service resources (each of which can expose a different set of Pods) and offers load-balancing and SSL termination features. The Ingress resource can assign a specific externally reachable URL to each Service resource associated with it. Resource Field Resource Field Type Resource Field Description apiVersion string Defines the versioned schema of the Ingress resource. kind string Represents the REST resource for Ingress resource. The K8s API Server may infer this from the endpoint the client submits the request to. The value cannot be updated. metadata ObjectMeta Standard metadata of the Ingress resource [6] spec IngressSpec Specifies the desired behavior of the Ingress resource status IngressStatus Represents the most recent observed status of the Ingress resource For the SMO to lifecycle manage an Ingress resource in a chosen K8s cluster using O2dms K8s profile, it shall use the URIs, and HTTP methods listed in Table 4.3.1.2.2-2 with K8s standard query and body parameters for Ingress resource included in the HTTP request [5]. Relevant Ingress Resource URIs Supported HTTP Methods /apis/networking.k8s.io/v1/namespaces/{namespace}/ingresses • POST: Create an Ingress resource in the specified namespace
- GET: List or watch all Ingress resources
in the namespace
- DELETE: Delete all Ingress resources
from the namespace /apis/networking.k8s.io/v1/namespaces/{namespace}/ingresses/{name} • PUT: Replace the Ingress resource in the namespace
- PATCH: Partial update the Ingress
resource in the namespace
- DELETE: Delete the Ingress resource
from the namespace
- GET: Read the specified Ingress
resource in the namespace
> NOTE: For an Ingress resource to work, an Ingress controller (i.e., an additional controller to the default K8s
controllers) shall be running inside the K8s cluster. K8s does not offer a default ingress controller and leaves the choice of ingress controller to the cluster administrator. In the ORAN context, the K8s cluster may have a default ingress controller installed at the time of cluster creation, or the SMO may decide to extend the K8s cluster with any specific ingress controller after cluster creation using O2dms interface.

##### 4.3.1.2.3 NetworkPolicy

# A K8s NetworkPolicy resource is used to control traffic flow to/from a K8s workloads at the IP address or port level
using ingress and egress rules. These rules may apply to other K8s Pods, Namespaces, or generic IP blocks to restrict or allow traffic from these entities. Selectors and IP blocks (CIDR ranges) are used to enforce the NetworkPolicy constraints specified in the NetworkPolicy resource specification. Resource Field Resource Field Type Resource Field Description apiVerison string Defines the versioned schema of the NetworkPolicy resource. kind string Represents the REST resource for NetworkPolicy. The K8s API Server may infer this from the endpoint the client submits the request to. The value cannot be updated. metadata ObjectMeta Standard metadata of the NetworkPolicy resource [6] spec NetworkPolicySpec Specifies the desired behavior of the NetworkPolicy resource and the ingress and/or egress traffic rules to be enforced in the cluster. status NetworkPolicyStatus Describes the current state of the NetworkPolicy interface. For the SMO to lifecycle manage a K8s NetworkPolicy resource in a K8s cluster using O2dms K8s profile, it shall use the URIs, and HTTP methods listed in Table 4.3.1.2.3-2 with K8s standard query and body parameters for NetworkPolicy resource included in the HTTP request [5]. Relevant NetworkPolicy Resource URIs Supported HTTP Methods /apis/networking.k8s.io/v1/namespaces/{namespace}/ • POST: Create a new NetworkPolicy networkpolicies resource in the specified namespace
- GET: List or watch all NetworkPolicy
resources in the namespace
- DELETE: Delete all NetworkPolicy
resources from the namespace /apis/networking.k8s.io/v1/namespaces/{namespace}/ • PUT: Replace the NetworkPolicy resource networkpolicies/{name} in the namespace
- PATCH: Partial update the NetworkPolicy
resource in the namespace
- DELETE: Delete the NetworkPolicy
resource from the namespace
- GET: Read the NetworkPolicy resource in
the namespace
> NOTE: The functionality of the NetworkPolicy resource depends on the presence of a compatible K8s network
plugin that supports K8s network policies. Without a supporting network plugin, the NetworkPolicy resource creation will have no impact on the ingress and egress traffic to/from a K8s workload.

#### 4.3.1.3 Kubernetes native storage and workload configuration resources

##### 4.3.1.3.1 ConfigMap

# A K8s ConfigMap resource is used for storing non-confidential data in the form of key-value pairs that can be read as runtime configurations by Pods in a K8s cluster. ConfigMap resource can be used to store configuration files,
environment variables or command line arguments for workloads to use at runtime. A ConfigMap resource decouples the workload containers from environment specific configuration data thereby making the K8s Pods easily portable across the worker nodes in a K8s cluster. The data stored in a ConfigMap cannot exceed 1 MiB. Resource Field Resource Field Type Resource Field Description apiVersion string Defines the versioned schema of the ConfigMap resource. kind string Represents the REST resource for ConfigMap resource. The K8s API Server may infer this from the endpoint the client submits the request to. The value cannot be updated. metadata ObjectMeta Standard metadata of the ConfigMap resource [6] data object Contains the configuration data in key-value pairs. Keys shall be alphanumeric characters and ‘- ‘, ‘_’ or ‘.’ Values shall be UTF-8 byte sequence. Keys in the data field shall not overlap with keys in binaryData field to pass validation checks at ConfigMap creation time. binaryData object Contains binary data in key-value pairs. Keys shall be alphanumeric characters and ‘-‘, ‘_’, or ‘.’ Values can contain byte sequences that are not in UTF-8 range. Keys in the binaryData field shall not overlap with keys in the data field to pass validation checks at ConfigMap creation time. immutable boolean When true, the data stored in the ConfigMap cannot be updated. When false, the data can be modified at any time. interface. For the SMO to lifecycle manage an ConfigMap resource in a chosen K8s cluster using O2dms K8s profile, it shall use the URIs, and HTTP methods listed in Table 4.3.1.3.1-2 with K8s standard query and body parameters for ConfigMap resource included in the HTTP request [5]. Relevant ConfigMap Resource URIs Supported HTTP Methods /api/v1/namespaces/{namespace}/configmaps • POST: Create a ConfigMap resource in the specified namespace
- GET: List or watch all ConfigMap resources in the
namespace
- DELETE: Delete all ConfigMap resources from the
namespace /api/v1/namespaces/{namespace}/configmaps/{name} • PUT: Replace the ConfigMap resource in the namespace
- PATCH: Partial update the ConfigMap resource in the
namespace
- DELETE: Delete the ConfigMap resource from the
namespace
- GET: Read the specified ConfigMap resource in the
namespace

##### 4.3.1.3.2 Secret

# A K8s Secret resource is used for storing sensitive or confidential data in key value pairs format. Secrets are like
ConfigMaps but specifically intended to be used for storing confidential data such as passwords, OAuth tokens, SSH keys etc. By default, data stored in Secrets is not encrypted in a K8s cluster. Resource Field Resource Field Type Resource Field Description apiVersion string Defines the versioned schema of the Secret resource. kind string Represents the REST resource for Secret resource. The K8s API Server may infer this from the endpoint the client submits the request to. The value cannot be updated. metadata ObjectMeta Standard metadata of the Secret resource [6] data object Contains the secret data in key-value pairs. Keys shall be alphanumeric characters and ‘- ‘, ‘_’ or ‘.’ Values are serialized form of the secret data specified as based64 encoded string. stringData object Contains non-binary secret data in string form. immutable boolean When true, the data stored in the ConfigMap cannot be updated. When false, the data can be modified at any time. type String A non-constrained string value. Used to facilitate programmatic handling of secret data. Defaults to Opaque (arbitrary user-defined data) the SMO to lifecycle manage a Secret resource in a chosen K8s cluster using O2dms K8s profile, it shall use the URIs, and HTTP methods listed in Table 4.3.1.3.2-2 with K8s standard query and body parameters for Secret resource included in the HTTP request [5]. Relevant Secret Resource URIs Supported HTTP Methods /api/v1/namespaces/{namespace}/secrets • POST: Create a Secret resource in the specified namespace
- GET: List or watch all Secret resources in the namespace
- DELETE: Delete all Secret resources from the namespace
/api/v1/namespace/{namespace/secrets/{name} • PUT: Replace the Secret resource in the namespace
- PATCH: Partial update the Secret resource in the
namespace
- DELETE: Delete the Secret resource from the namespace
- GET: Read the specified Secret resource in the
namespace

##### 4.3.1.3.3 PersistentVolumeClaim
The K8s PersistentVolumeClaim resource is used for requesting and claiming a K8s PersistentVolume resource. The PersistentVolume may pre-exist in the K8s cluster or created dynamically in response to the creation of PersistentVolumeClaim resource. A PersistentVolumeClaim provides a way to request a persistent storage for Pods without knowing the underlying storage technology. Pods can use PersistentVolumeClaims as volumes and mount them as part of the Pod specification. Resource Field Resource Field Type Resource Field Description apiVersion string Defines the versioned schema of the PersistentVolumeClaim resource. kind string Represents the REST resource for PersistentVolumeClaim resource. The K8s API Server may infer this from the endpoint the client submits the request to. The value cannot be updated. metadata ObjectMeta Standard metadata of the PersistentVolumeClaim resource [6] spec PersistentVolumeClaimSpec Specifies the desired characteristics of the persistent volume requested for the Pod. status PersistentVolumeClaimStatus Read only. Represents the most recent observed status of the PersistentVolumeClaim resource. O2dms interface. For the SMO to lifecycle manage a PersistentVolumeClaim resource in a chosen K8s cluster using O2dms K8s profile, it shall use the URIs, and HTTP methods listed in Table 4.3.1.3.3-2 with K8s standard query and body parameters for PersistentVolumeClaim resource included in the HTTP request [5]. profile Relevant PersistentVolumeClaim Supported HTTP Methods Resource URIs /api/v1/namespaces/{namespace}/ • POST: Create a PersistentVolumeClaim resource in the specified persistentvolumeclaims namespace
- GET: List or watch all PersistentVolumeClaim resources in the
namespace
- DELETE: Delete all PersistentVolumeClaim resources from the
namespace /api/v1/namespaces/{namespace}/ • PUT: Replace the PersistentVolumeClaim resource in the namespace persistentvolumeclaims/{name} • PATCH: Partial update the PersistentVolumeClaim resource in the namespace
- DELETE: Delete the PersistentVolumeClaim resource from the
namespace
- GET: Read the PersistentVolumeClaim resource in the namespace

#### 4.3.1.4 Kubernetes native metadata and cluster configuration resources

##### 4.3.1.4.1 LimitRange

# A K8s LimitRange resource is used to set constraints on the resource utilization of Pods and containers in a namespace.
By default, a container can use as much compute resources as it needs in the namespace and that can lead to resource contention problems among Pods and containers that share the namespace and may belong to different priority classes.

# A LimitRange resource an enforce defaults or min-max values for different resources in the namespace (e.g., CPU,
memory, storage) at Pod or container level. Resource Field Resource Field Type Resource Field Description apiVersion string Defines the versioned schema of the LimitRange resource. kind string Represents the REST resource for LimitRange resource. The K8s API Server may infer this from the endpoint the client submits the request to. The value cannot be updated. metadata ObjectMeta Standard metadata of the LimitRange resource [6] spec LimitRangeSpec Specifies the limits that will be enforced on resources in a namespace. interface. For the SMO to lifecycle manage a LimitRange resource in a chosen K8s cluster using O2dms K8s profile, it shall use the URIs, and HTTP methods listed in Table 4.3.1.4.1-2 with K8s standard query and body parameters for LimitRange resource included in the HTTP request [5]. Relevant LimitRange Resource URIs Supported HTTP Methods /api/v1/namespaces/{namespace}/limitranges • POST: Create a LimitRange resource in the specified namespace
- GET: List or watch all LimitRange resources in the namespace
- DELETE: Delete all LimitRange resources from the namespace
/api/v1/namespaces/{namespace}/limitranges/ • PUT: Replace the LimitRange resource in the namespace {name} • PATCH: Partial update the LimitRange resource in the namespace
- DELETE: Delete the LimitRange resource from the namespace
- GET: Read the LimitRange resource in the namespace

##### 4.3.1.4.2 ResourceQuota

# A K8s ResourceQuota resource is used to set limits on the total/aggregate resource consumption in a namespace. A ResourceQuota object can specify limits for other K8s resource objects (by resource type) and compute resources (e.g.,
memory, CPU, storage). A single K8s namespace can have multiple ResourceQuota resources with unique names for limiting different types of namespace scoped resources. The ResourceQuota specified limits are enforced at K8s resource creation time and have no impact on exsting Pods and resources in the namespace. Resource Field Resource Field Type Resource Field Description apiVersion string Defines the versioned schema of the ResourceQuota resource. kind string Represents the REST resource for ResourceQuota. The K8s API Server may infer this from the endpoint the client submits the request to. The value cannot be updated. metadata ObjectMeta Standard metadata of the ResourceQuota resource [6] spec ResourceQuotaSpec Specifies the desired quota of K8s resource objects and/or compute resources imposed on the namespace status ResourceQuotaStatus Defines the actual enforced quota and its current usage interface. For the SMO to lifecycle manage a K8s ResourceQuota resource in a K8s cluster using O2dms K8s profile, it shall use the URIs, and HTTP methods listed in Table 4.3.1.4.2-2 with K8s standard query and body parameters for ResourceQuota resource included in the HTTP request [5]. Relevant ResourceQuota Resource URIs Supported HTTP Methods /api/v1/namespaces/{namespace}/resourcequotas • POST: Create a new ResourceQuota resource in the specified namespace
- GET: List or watch all ResourceQuota resources in the
namespace
- DELETE: Delete all ResourceQuota resources from the
namespace /api/v1/namespaces/{namespace}/resourcequotas/ • PUT: Replace the ResourceQuota resource in the {name} namespace
- PATCH: Partial update the ResourceQuota resource in
the namespace
- DELETE: Delete the ResourceQuota resource from the
namespace
- GET: Read the ResourceQuota resource in the
namespace

##### 4.3.1.4.3 HorizontalPodAutoscaler

# A K8s HorizontalPodAutoscaler resource is used to automatically scale up or down, the number of Pod instances
belonging to a workload resource that supports horizontal scaling (e.g., Deployments and StatefulSets). The scale-up and scale-down levels are controlled by defined minimum and maximum values in the HorizontalPodAutoscaler resource. The HorizontalPodAutoscaler resource works by changing the “scale” property of a workload resource e.g., Deployment, based on observed metrics such as CPU and Memory utilization.
> NOTE: For the K8s cluster to horizontally scale a workload based on the metrics specified in the K8s
HorizontalPodAutoscaler resource, it should have a metrics collection service running in the cluster. Resource Field Resource Field Type Resource Field Description apiVersion string Defines the versioned schema of the HorizontalPodAutoscaler resource. kind string Represents the REST resource for HorizontalPodAutoscaler resource. The K8s API Server may infer this from the endpoint the client submits the request to. The value cannot be updated. metadata ObjectMeta Standard metadata of the HorizontalPodAutoscaler resource [6]. spec HorizontalPodAutoscalerSpec Specifies the min-max replica count and behavior of the HorizontalPodAutoscaler resource. status HorizontalPodAutoscalerStatus Represents the most recent observed status of the HorizontalPodAutoscaler resource. O2dms interface. For the SMO to lifecycle manage a K8s HorizontalPodAutoscaler resource in a chosen K8s cluster using O2dms K8s profile, it shall use the URIs, and HTTP methods listed in Table 4.3.1.4.3-2 with K8s standard query and body parameters for HorizontalPodAutoscaler resource included in the HTTP request [5]. profile Relevant HorizontalPodAutoscaler Resource Supported HTTP Methods URIs /apis/autoscaling/v2/namespaces/{namespace}/ • POST: Create a HorizontalPodAutoscaler resource in the horizontalpodautoscalers specified namespace
- GET: List or watch HorizontalPodAutoscaler resources in the
namespace
- DELETE: Delete all HorizontalPodAutoscaler resources from
the namespace /apis/autoscaling/v2/namespaces/{namespace}/ • PUT: Replace the HorizontalPodAutoscaler resource in the horizontalpodautoscalers/{name} namespace
- PATCH: Partial update the HorizontalPodAutoscaler
resource in the namespace
- DELETE: Delete the HorizontalPodAutoscaler resource from
the namespace
- GET: Read the HorizontalPodAutoscaler resource in the
namespace

##### 4.3.1.4.4 PodDisruptionBudget

# A K8s PodDisruptionBudget resource is used to ensure that a specific number of Pod instances belonging to a workload
resource (e.g., Deployments, StatefulSets) are available in the cluster in a healthy running state in the event of planned or unplanned Pod disruptions. A K8s PodDisruptionBudget resource ensures that the application or service offered by the Pods remains available in the event of concurrent disruptions due to Pod termination events. The number of healthy Pod instances required during disruption events can be specified as a minimum-available or maximum-unavialable number. Resource Field Resource Field Type Resource Field Description apiVersion string Defines the versioned schema of the PodDisruptionBudget resource. kind string Represents the REST resource for PodDisruptionBudget resource. The K8s API Server may infer this from the endpoint the client submits the request to. The value cannot be updated. metadata ObjectMeta Standard metadata of the PodDisruptionBudget resource [6]. spec PodDisruptionBudgetSpec Specifies the desired behavior of PodDisruptionBudge resource. status PodDisruptionBudgetStatus Represents the most recent observed status of the PodDisruptionBudget resource. O2dms interface. For the SMO to lifecycle manage a K8s PodDisruptionBudget resource in a chosen K8s cluster using O2dms K8s profile, it shall use the URIs, and HTTP methods listed in Table 4.3.1.4.4-2 with K8s standard query and body parameters for PodDisruptionBudget resource included in the HTTP request [5]. Relevant PodDisruptionBudget Resource URIs Supported HTTP Methods /apis/policy/v1/namespaces/{namespace}/ • POST: Create a PodDisruptionBudget resource in the poddisruptionbudgets specified namespace
- GET: List or watch PodDisruptionBudget resources in the
namespace
- DELETE: Delete all PodDisruptionBudget resources from the
namespace /apis/policy/v1/namespaces/{namespace}/ • PUT: Replace the PodDisruptionBudget resource in the poddisruptionbudgets/{name} namespace
- PATCH: Partial update the PodDisruptionBudget resource in
the namespace
- DELETE: Delete the PodDisruptionBudget resource from the
namespace
- GET: Read the PodDisruptionBudget resource in the
namespace

### 4.3.2 Kubernetes Native Cluster Scoped Resource Objects
The Kubernetes native cluster scoped resource objects are not included in the present version of the document.


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG6.ORCH-USE-CASES-R004-v14.00.md -->
---
title: "Technical Specification"
---

# 3 Orchestration Use Cases
These Use Cases focus on the private cloud case where the cloud is managed by the operator. Applicability to the public cloud case is for further study. The present document provides Use Cases related to Network Function, O-Cloud, SMO and Near-RT RIC. At a high level, the use cases cover similar functionality/scope applicable to O-Cloud and O-Cloud-based Network Functions, such as:  Instantiation and deployment of O-Cloud and Network Functions  Updating of O-Cloud and Network Functions  Scaling of O-Cloud and Network Functions Instantiation and deployment of O-Cloud in the O-RAN is triggered by the “Service Request” towards SMO and a sequential process involving the use cases described in clauses 3.1.1, 3.1.2, 3.1.3. The instantiation of Network Function is described in clause 3.2.1. Updating of O-Cloud and Network Function can be performed independently and be triggered by the SMO as described in clauses 3.1.6 and 3.2.4, respectively. Scaling of Network Function is triggered by the SMO as described in clause 3.2.2 (for the scaling out) and clause 3.2.3 (for the scaling in). Scaling of O-Cloud is described in clause 3.1.5. The roles and actors described in Table 3-1 are used in the use case descriptions. Actor/Role Description RAN Planner Operator planning area deployment of RAN. Cloud Planner Operator planning O-Cloud instance. Cloud Installation Operator designing each O-Cloud instance. Project Manager O-Cloud Vendor Provider of the O-Cloud software. Network Function Install Project Operator designing each Network Function instance. Manager Network operator Operator operating operator’s network. Cloud Installer Operator installing O-Cloud Node Cloud Maintainer Operator that operates and manages O-Cloud Nodes SMO See [3]. SMO is further divided into FOCOM, NFO and OAM Functions. IMS See [9] DMS See [9] O-Cloud Node(s) See [7] Near-RT RIC See [3] xAPP See [10] Network Function Network Function that is instantiated and managed. (Application) Network Entity responsible for managing, controlling and setting up network connectivity. Controller
> NOTE 1: The UML® Sequence Diagrams in the use cases follow the template defined in the OAM Architecture [5]
Appendix B. An arrow with dashed lines is used to indicate a synchronous return message.
> NOTE 2: UML® is a registered trademark of the Object Management Group, in the United States and other countries.
O-RAN is not affiliated with, endorsed or sponsored by the Object Management Group. There might be various situations where the IMS software or its data store itself has become corrupt. In this situation, the IMS as a producer entity might not be able to perform its functions over the O2ims interface. This problem applies to all the following use cases. Ways or strategies of how to recover or react to a non-functional IMS will be covered in the Loss of O2ims of Management Link Use Case [NOTE 3: use case to be added in future]. For all the following use cases, there are common messaging framework errors and exceptions that can occur. For example, if a response message is never received because of a network outage, it is expected that eventually the system will time out. These standard code responses will apply to all the following use cases and are not mentioned explicitly as separate exceptions within the use cases. For all the following use cases, it is possible that the IMS is processing a request while another new request operating on the same objects arrives from the same or another authorized entity. This is a race condition. A race condition can occur either at the management level (SMO), or at the transaction level (O2ims or O2dms Interface). For example, a PM subscription query request is being processed by the IMS and while the IMS is processing that operation, a new PM subscription query request arrives. NOTE 4: This would be resolved in the management implementation (SMO) or in the stage 3 (O2ims or O2dms interface) implementation. Some possible solution implementations are a semaphore flag (managing entity side) that only allows one entity to access the resources at a time. Another possible implementation is a “currency” field that would be a token mechanism that can be used to identify transactions.

## 3.1 O-Cloud Basic Use Cases
Cloud Platforms are identified in order for the SMO to take advantage of them. In traditional data center clouds these have been manually or externally added to the SMO for homing of NF deployments since the numbers are typically low from hundreds of cloud regions to even several thousand. However, in the case of edge clouds the number of deployments scale into the 10K to 100K range, in which case this process needs to more closely resemble the way RAN elements are “discovered”. Even in this latter case, the rationale for edge clouds is for specific performance requirements, therefore not all edge clouds are equivalent. This Use Case describes how the SMO discovers and manages a cloud implementation that meets the O-RAN specifications as described in the Cloud Architecture and Deployment Scenarios for O-RAN virtualized RAN [7]. Such a cloud instance is generally referred to as an O-Cloud which is comprised of O-Cloud Nodes (Compute, Storage, and Network), dedicated resources for the O-Cloud. This group of Use Cases includes the following:
- Pre-processing where before the O-Cloud is activated the SMO is configured with the identity of the O-Cloud so
that registration can be done
- Basic platform software installation by the SMO and IMS
- O-Cloud deployment processing where the O-Cloud registers with SMO and has its identity and software version
checked
- Capabilities Exchange where the SMO either queries for O-Cloud capabilities or is notified autonomously that
there has been a change in O-Cloud capabilities
- O-Cloud hardware upgrade where a new O-Cloud Node is added
- O-Cloud software update where the platform software version is upgraded or downgraded in the O-Cloud
The end result of the group of use cases is an active O-Cloud registered with SMO and ready for the deployment of Network Functions.
> NOTE 1: Where Personnel are shown as part of the Use Case, the roles and terminology used are given for
purposes of illustration only.
> NOTE 2: Regarding security and authentication of an entity that interacts with the IMS, which typically the
FOCOM in the SMO, the topic of security and authentication will be addressed by the O-RAN security focus group (SFG). A common solution which affects all the following use cases will be studied and specified by the SFG. This is currently FFS. When these are better understood, each of the following use cases will be updated to reflect the security & authentication requirements.

### 3.1.1 O-Cloud Pre-Deployment Processing Use Case

#### 3.1.1.1 High Level Description
This Use Case describes the SMO being configured to add an O-Cloud into its inventory prior to the O-Cloud itself being activated and attempting to register with the SMO. The Use Case assumes that this will be part of a sequence of “Service Requests” to the SMO, one for the deployment of the O-Cloud and one for the Network Function(s) that will run on that O-Cloud instance. In the latter request, information is assumed to be present on the NF Service Requests to identify the O-Cloud instance, as described in a later Use Case.
> NOTE: In some cases, there could potentially be a single “Service Request” to SMO containing information
about both the O-Cloud and Network Function(s) that will run on that O-Cloud instance, but this is not covered in the Use Case.

#### 3.1.1.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use SMO creates an object in its Inventory and generates Global O-Cloud ID that is provided as input to the O-Cloud genesis and used in the O-Cloud Registration Goal 3.1.3 (see 3.1.3 O-Cloud Registration and Initialization Use Case). . RAN Planner Cloud Planner Actors and Roles Cloud Installation Project Manager

# S MO
Assumptions 1) SMO is available. 2) The cloud blueprint (see Annex A of the present specification) is available to the Cloud Installation Project Manager, which has been Preconditions created based on the requirements from the RAN Buildout Plan of Record. Decision to deploy an O-Cloud to support RAN growth/coverage has been made Begins when jointly by the RAN Planner and the Cloud Planner Cloud Installation Project Manager issues a “service request” to the SMO to Step 1 (M) update its Inventory, i.e., indicate that a new O-Cloud is to be inventoried. SMO generates Global O-Cloud ID, and creates an inventory record with the Global O-Cloud ID. The Global O-Cloud ID represents a globally unique Step 2 (M) identifier for the new O-Cloud instance by the SMO and for handling the registration process. SMO confirms update to Cloud Installation Project Manager. Step 3 (M) Ends when SMO has updated inventory with the Global O-Cloud ID of the planned O-Cloud. Exceptions None identified. SMO has created an inventory record with the Global O-Cloud ID for the Post Conditions planned O-Cloud. Traceability REQ-ORC-GEN1; REQ-ORC-GEN2

#### 3.1.1.3 UML sequence diagram

### 3.1.2 O-Cloud Platform Software Installation Use Case

#### 3.1.2.1 High Level Description
The Use Case describes the deployment of the O-Cloud and installation of O-Cloud Platform Software on an O-Cloud Node. The Cloud Installer begins the installation by installing the hardware for the O-Cloud Nodes and notifying SMO to begin Cloud Build. SMO then loads O-Cloud Platform Software on a first O-Cloud Node in the O-Cloud, which then brings up any additional O-Cloud Nodes in the O-Cloud. During activation of other O-Cloud Nodes, the O-Cloud Management Plane activates IMS, which then notifies the SMO of its availability. The SMO then sends IMS the required set of O-Cloud Node Roles and Personalities to support. The IMS loads necessary basic software for O-Cloud onto the other O-Cloud Nodes and also configures and activates one or more DMSs. It is assumed that hardware to deploy O-Cloud Management Software is pre-configured and ready. Network connectivity between O-Cloud network gateways(s) and SMO is assumed to be ready, as per the “O-Cloud Pre- Deployment Processing Use Case” described in clause 3.1.1. For O-Cloud resources managed by a Hardware Accelerator Manager (HAM), which is defined in O-RAN WG6.AAL- GAnP [11], Clause 3.1, the IMS informs the HAM what SW artifacts to be installed and activated for HWA resources managed by that HAM. The HAM is responsible for obtaining, installing and activating the SW artifacts. For further information, see O-RAN WG6.AAL-GAnP [11], Clause 4.2.1.

#### 3.1.2.2 Sequence Description
Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification <<Uses>> Related use Goal The O-Cloud is initialized and communicating with the SMO. Cloud Installation Project Manager: Cloud Installer: SMO: FOCOM Actors and Roles IMS DMS O-Cloud Node Network Controller 1) Through some means (e.g., manual installation), an application will be loaded to the O-Cloud, that application at minimum having the following abilities: a. Having knowledge of its own O-Cloud ID, IP address, the IP address endpoint or url of the SMO and any necessary security keys or passwords for communication using O2. Assumptions b. Being able to communicate at least the IMS Address endpoint and Cloud Id of this O-Cloud instance. c. Being able to generate a registration event to the SMO including its Cloud ID. d. Being able to process requests to load SW onto an O-Cloud Node in the O-Cloud 1) SMO is available 2) Network connectivity exists between the O-Cloud and SMO 3) SMO has basic software for the O-Cloud available for Preconditions download 4) SMO holds inventory that includes the O-Cloud ID for the O- Cloud. Begins when Work order triggers O-Cloud installation processing. Cloud Installation Project Manager generates a work order to the Cloud Installer for the new O-Cloud; Step 1, 2 (M) Cloud Installer installs the new O-Cloud Nodes, sets up connectivity of the O-Cloud Nodes to the O-Cloud network gateway(s) (e.g., with Network Controller) and responds to Cloud Installation Project Manager Cloud Installer notifies SMO of the new O-Cloud Build. (NOTE 1) Step 3 (M) SMO loads basic software for O-Cloud on the first O-Cloud Node; Step 4 (M) First O-Cloud Node then brings up additional O-Cloud Nodes in the O- Cloud including IMS. (NOTE 2) If network connectivity has not been established between O-Cloud Nodes and with transport network via O-Cloud Gateway, IMS performs the network resource provisioning for the base O-Cloud Site Network, realized on the O-Cloud Site Network Fabric, providing infrastructure- Step 5 (O) level network connectivity for the O-Cloud Node(s), which means the configuration of O-Cloud Node(s) and if necessary, configuration of the O-Cloud Network Fabric for L2 level connectivity and O-Cloud Gateway for L3 level connectivity. (NOTE 3) IMS loads basic O-Cloud software onto the other O-Cloud Nodes, Step 6 (M) activates DMS and creates SW inventory. Ends when O-Cloud has IMS and DMS activated and has created SW inventory. Exceptions None identified O-Cloud software has been installed. In addition, network resources for the O-Cloud Site Network providing infrastructure-level connectivity have been provisioned and network connectivity has been established between O-Cloud Nodes and with transport network via O-Cloud Post Conditions Gateway. O-Cloud ready to register with SMO, with information to connect to SMO and activated IMS with SW inventory and activated DMS(s). REQ-ORC-GEN3; REQ-ORC-GEN4; REQ-ORC-GEN5; REQ-ORC- Traceability O2-1; REQ-ORC-O2-2; REQ-ORC-O2-45; REQ-ORC-O2-46
> NOTE 1: Cloud Installer shall provide SMO with information to connect with the new O-Cloud Build, including the
target O-Cloud Node in the O-Cloud and identity of the basic software for O-Cloud to be loaded on the O- Cloud
> NOTE 2: Details of how the IMS and other O-Cloud Nodes are brought up are specific to the O-Cloud
implementation.
> NOTE 3: Network resource provisioning for the O-Cloud Site Network can be also performed independently as
described in clause 3.11.1.

#### 3.1.2.3 UML sequence diagram

### 3.1.3 O-Cloud Registration and Initialization Use Case

#### 3.1.3.1 High Level Description
This Use Case describes the sequence for registration and initialization of the newly deployed O-Cloud. The SMO queries the O-Cloud for its SW inventory, checks to see if this requires any updates, configures the O-Cloud and queries the O-Cloud for available DMS. Following this sequence, the O-Cloud is available for NF deployments to be instantiated.

#### 3.1.3.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use O-Cloud is initialized and registered with the SMO, ready for NF deployments Goal to be instantiated. SMO: FOCOM IMS Actors and Roles DMS O-Cloud Node Assumptions None 1) SMO and O-Cloud IMS are available 2) Network connectivity exists between O-Cloud and SMO and between all nodes of O-Cloud. All O-cloud nodes are preconfigured for the O- Preconditions Cloud. 3) SMO has been configured with O-Cloud ID in its inventory and is ready for O-Cloud registration Begins when IMS and DMS are ready to register O-Cloud to accept new NF deployments IMS initiates the O2 O-Cloud Registration Process using O2ims services (for Step 1 (M) details see [9]) SMO queries IMS for current SW inventory, and IMS responds with SW Step 2-3 (M) inventory data. SMO checks SW inventory. 1) If SW inventory does not match required inventory: a. SMO executes software update (see clauses 3.1.6, 3.1.9 and 3.1.10) Step 4-5 (ALT) b. IMS installs new software, activates and notifies SMO it is available c. return to Step 2 2) If SW inventory matches the required inventory, continue to next Step Step 6 (M) SMO configures O-Cloud using O2 SMO queries O-Cloud to discover and Inventory new DMS using O2 Infrastructure Inventory Services [9] O-Cloud returns list of new O-Cloud Deployment Management Services end Step 7-9 (M) points.
> NOTE: O-Cloud Inventory Services may provide additional information such as
a Cloud Inventory reference. For each DMS, SMO retrieves DMS capabilities using O-Cloud Inventory Step 10-12 (M) Update (see clause 3.1.4) and registers DMS in its inventory. O-Cloud has registered with SMO and SMO has checked software version, Ends when configuration, and available DMS Exceptions O-Cloud ID not found in inventory Post Conditions O-Cloud ready to support new NF deployments REQ-ORC-GEN6; REQ-ORC-GEN7; REQ-ORC-GEN8; REQ-ORC-GEN9; Traceability REQ-ORC-O2-3; REQ-ORC-O2-4; REQ-ORC-O2-5; REQ-ORC-O2-6

#### 3.1.3.3 UML sequence diagram

### 3.1.4 O-Cloud Inventory Update Use Case

#### 3.1.4.1 High Level Description
This Use Case describes the procedure for the SMO and O-Cloud to update inventory information about its type and current capabilities using O2 Infrastructure Inventory Services [9], including resource build configurations (aka “flavors”), capacity, utilization and availability. This procedure is invoked initially at deployment of the O-Cloud and can be invoked at later times to identify changes in the capabilities of the O-Cloud. Two patterns are possible, one using query/response from the SMO in order to get current inventory, e.g., before instantiating a new NF deployment and one triggered by autonomous indications from the O-Cloud when there has been a change in inventory status.

#### 3.1.4.2 Sequence Description
Use Case <<Uses>> Evolution / Specification Stage Related use O-Cloud is initialized and communicating with the SMO, ready for Goal deployments to be instantiated. Actors and SMO: FOCOM Roles I MS Notification Event has been configured into the IMS by the SMO Assumptions 1) SMO is available Preconditions 2) O-Cloud has been installed and activated 3) SMO has registered O-Cloud and software version in its inventory 1) SMO is deploying or scaling up a new O-cloud or 2) SMO determines that it needs to query O-cloud to determine if O- Begins when Cloud can support a new NF deployment or 3) Capabilities change has occurred in the O-cloud and SMO has previously subscribed to notification of capability changes. In the Query/Response pattern, the SMO uses O2 Inventory Services to Step 1,2 (ALT) update its inventory record for the O-Cloud IMS/DMS capabilities. IMS responds with what it supports In the Event Notification pattern, using O2 O-Cloud Monitoring Services [9] Step 3 (ALT) IMS sends notification event to the SMO due to a change in inventory SMO receives up-to-date capabilities information from IMS and updates the Ends when O-Cloud inventory record Exceptions None identified Post Conditions SMO holds updated inventory REQ-ORC-GEN10; REQ-ORC-GEN11; REQ-ORC-GEN12; REQ-ORC- Traceability GEN13; REQ-ORC-O2-7; REQ-ORC-O2-8

#### 3.1.4.3 UML sequence diagram

### 3.1.5 Hardware Infrastructure Scaling of O-Cloud Post Deployment

#### 3.1.5.1 High Level Description
After the initial deployment of an O-Cloud, it may be necessary to scale up resources. In this use case, we examine how the SMO will discover and manage a new O-Cloud Node that has been cabled and powered up to be part of an existing O-Cloud.

#### 3.1.5.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Additional O-Cloud Nodes are powered on for an existing O-Cloud; O-Cloud Goal initializes new O-Cloud Node and communicates the presence of additional resources to SMO. Cloud Planner Cloud Installer Actors and Roles SMO/ FOCOM IMS O-Cloud Node 1) Notification Event has been configured into the IMS by the SMO Assumptions 2) The additional O-Cloud Node is cabled to be part of the existing O-Cloud at the site 1) SMO is available 2) O-Cloud is operational and known to SMO 3) Network connectivity exists between the O-Cloud and the SMO 4) Network connectivity exists between the new O-Cloud Node and IMS Preconditions 5) Cloud Installer knows (from Cloud Planner) the need to add O-Cloud Node(s) to the existing O-Cloud 6) IMS has been configured with the O-Cloud blueprint for the new O-Cloud Node Decision to add additional resources to an existing O-Cloud has been made and Begins when new O-Cloud Node is installed and powered on. New O-Cloud Node interacts with IMS to get basic software for O-Cloud load Step 1 (M) and configuration SMO executes the O-Cloud Inventory Update procedure (clause 3.1.4), in this use case using the Event Notification Pattern, IMS informs SMO of change in Step 2 (M) inventory due to the new O-Cloud Node and SMO updates its inventory record with the information in the notification. Ends when O-Cloud has added new O-Cloud Node Exceptions None identified Additional O-Cloud Node is available in O-Cloud. Post Conditions SMO holds updated inventory. Traceability REQ-ORC-GEN14; REQ-ORC-GEN15; REQ-ORC-O2-8

#### 3.1.5.3 UML sequence diagram

### 3.1.6 O-Cloud Platform Software Update Use Case

#### 3.1.6.1 High Level Description
Edge clouds deployments can range in the 10K to 100K range across an operator network. Rolling O-Cloud software updates (upgrades and downgrades) need to be performed without service disruption for both VM and container-based workloads. Across a region, it may be necessary to update all edge O-Clouds in a serial fashion in order to minimize potential disruptions or in a parallel fashion where a set amount of edge O-Clouds in a region are simultaneously updated. Compute and storage nodes of individual edge O-Clouds can also be updated in a serial or parallel hitless fashion. Within an individual O-Cloud, the IMS migrates Network Function deployments from the affected O-Cloud Nodes before the software update in order to avoid service disruption (in this use case, it is assumed that IMS does this autonomously). From an SMO perspective, offloading the update strategy of an edge O-Cloud to a regional and local controller substantially reduces the update complexity. Fault handling of an O-Cloud update is critical. Individual nodes can fail during the update process and may need to be replaced. Rolling back of the update prior to a successful completion shall also be supported. In this use case, we examine how the SMO will update a single O-Cloud. It is assumed that the software update does not affect the IMS itself, and that the IMS is capable of performing the software update and migrating NF deployments from the affected O-Cloud Nodes without affecting active services. For O-Cloud resources managed by a Hardware Accelerator Manager (HAM), which is defined in O-RAN WG6.AAL- GAnP [11], Clause 3.1, the IMS informs the HAM what SW artifacts to be updated for HWA resources managed by that HAM. The HAM is responsible for obtaining and updating the SW artifacts. For further information, see O-RAN WG6.AAL-GAnP [11], Clause 4.2.1.

#### 3.1.6.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal Update (upgrade or downgrade) the platform software of an existing O-Cloud Cloud Maintainer SMO: FOCOM/OAM Functions Actors and Roles IMS O-Cloud Node Software update to O-Cloud is available Assumptions IMS supports software update, including software update rollback mechanism, and NF deployment migration 1) SMO is available 2) O-Cloud is operational and known to SMO 3) Affected O-Cloud Nodes have no NF deployments running or NF Preconditions deployments can be migrated to other O-Cloud Nodes. 4) O-Cloud Node spare resources are available at the O-Cloud in order to support NF deployment migration during the update process. Begins when Decision to update the platform software is made. Cloud Maintainer requests that SMO update platform software on an existing Step 1 (M) O-Cloud instance. Cloud Maintainer can specify the version of software to be upgraded or downgraded. SMO triggers software download and validation procedure at the O-Cloud using Step 2,3 (M) O2 Software Management Services IMS gets software package of the requested version from SMO and validates Step 4-6 (M) internally; IMS notifies SMO that software download is complete SMO requests pre-check procedure be done by IMS to determine if software Step 7-8 (M) update is acceptable or not acceptable; IMS responds with pre-check response If the pre-check indicates update is acceptable: 1) SMO directs IMS to activate the software update; 2) IMS determines the update process (software parts to update, points of control for rolling back, etc.) before starting the software update; 3) IMS migrates NF deployments from affected O-Cloud Nodes – note original requirements for these NF deployments shall continue to be met; Step 9-10 (M) 4) IMS updates software image (e.g., hypervisor) on the affected O-Cloud Nodes; 5) IMS checks the request from SMO; if restart is required, IMS performs restart. If the pre-check indicates update is not acceptable, stop update procedure and SMO returns failure response to O-Cloud operator. IMS determines that O-Cloud Node has updated software and is in running state; Step 11-13 (ALT) IMS updates its SW inventory. IMS notifies SMO that O-Cloud software has been updated and SMO updates its inventory. In case of software update failure, IMS rolls back to the original version (the Step 14-15 (ALT) version which was running before initiating the software update). IMS notifies SMO that IMS failed in O-Cloud software update. The O-Cloud Software Update response is returned to O-Cloud operator by Step 16 (M) SMO. SUCCESS: O-Cloud has updated software successfully. Ends when FAILURE: The O-Cloud software has been rolled back to the original version. Software update is not acceptable, in which case update does not proceed. Exceptions The O-Cloud software has been rolled back to the original version. SUCCESS: (1) SMO holds updated inventory (2) O-Cloud running with updated O-Cloud software Post Conditions (3) IMS holds updated SW inventory FAILURE: The O-Cloud software has been rolled back to the original version. Traceability REQ-ORC-GEN16; REQ-ORC-GEN17; REQ-ORC-O2-9

#### 3.1.6.3 UML sequence diagram

### 3.1.7 Functional Status Query Use Case

#### 3.1.7.1 High Level Description
The purpose of the functional status query use case is to allow for the request of state and status information from the O-Cloud. Standardized state and status information can be found in ITU-T X.731 (see reference [15]). While X.731 concepts originate in a wireless RAN context, they are useful and applicable to the management and reporting of O- Cloud resources.
> NOTE 1: For an operator to indicate something is in maintenance, the Administrative State Attribute (from X.731)
values of “locked” and “shutting down” could be used.
> NOTE 2: For an operator to indicate something is undergoing test, the Availability Status attribute (X.731) “in test” and
the Control Status Attribute (X.731) “subject to test” and “reserved for test” could be used. For example, an operator wants to see that things are “healthy” and operating with no faults. They could issue a functional status query on the O-Cloud; and the query would return an operational state of “enabled” with no alarm status of “alarm outstanding” for all resources.

#### 3.1.7.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use The goal of this use case is to inform an operator, SMO user, or entity of the functional status of the O-Cloud Resources. This allows a user to query states and their attending status. The supported states of the O-Cloud Resources are: Operational, Administrative, and Usage. Each of the states have status attributes associated with them: alarm status, procedural status, availability status, control status, standby status and unknown status. The full description is defined in ITU-T X.731 TMN reference [15]. Goal Some logical resources: the O-Cloud in aggregate, and O-Cloud resource pools, which are a collection of resources may or may not have a status. The three status indicators above give a sense of the current performance and current fault situation for the O-Cloud resource. Status can be requested by the SMO to the O-Cloud IMS. Furthermore, the API can be used by any entity. The Status query also has query criteria that is evaluated when resolving the query request. O-Cloud Operator – The O-Cloud operator is a user that is interested in getting functional status query results. SMO (FOCOM) – The FOCOM within the SMO is used in this use case to Actors and Roles represent any consumer of the status query service. IMS – The IMS within the O-Cloud is used to represent any provider of the functional status query service. A requesting entity does not need a subscription of any kind to query for Assumptions Status. The O-Cloud is operational. The FOCOM (SMO) has connectivity to IMS. Preconditions Security authorization, and privilege access has been established between the FOCOM (SMO) and IMS. This use case begins when either of the following two situations happens: 1. The O-Cloud Operator initiates a functional status query for an O- Cloud resource. Begins when 2. The SMO initiates a functional status query
> NOTE 1: while not depicted in the flow, any other entity with the proper
credentials can initiate a functional status query of the O-Cloud resource. FUNCTIONAL STATUS QUERY INITIATED FROM OPERATOR – A status query is initiated from the Operator to the FOCOM (SMO) with functional status Step 1.1 (ALT) query criteria that specifies what type of O-Cloud resource states and state values the operator is interested in. FUNCTIONAL STATUS QUERY INITIATED FROM SMO – A status query may also be initiated from the FOCOM (SMO) directly with functional status query Step 1.2 (ALT) criteria that specifies what type of O-Cloud resource states and state values to retrieve from the IMS. FUNCTIONAL STATUS QUERY REQUEST FROM FOCOM TO IMS – A status Step 2 (M) query is processed by the FOCOM (SMO) towards the IMS in the O-Cloud with the functional status query criteria. SUCCESSFUL STATUS RESPONSE – The response is returned for the functional status query with state status content matching the status query Step 3 (ALT) criteria.
> NOTE 2: A functional status query on the O-Cloud resource with no status
criteria will return a successful status for the full-service object. STATUS OBJECT NOT FOUND – This is an alt step. This is an exception case for the Functional Status Query basic case. In this situation, the service object Step 4 (ALT) to be queried was not found. A “status not found” response is sent to the subscriber. For example, a status query was performed on a non-existent O- Cloud resource. STATUS NO CONTENT – This is an alt step. This is an exception case for the Functional Status Query basic case. In this situation, the evaluation of the query parameters returned no content (an empty set). A “no content” response is sent Step 5 (ALT) to the subscriber. For example, if the given criteria [(only operational state = disabled) and (only operational state= operational)] would never return any result. STATUS OTHER QUERY FAILURE – This is an alt step. This exception case Step 6 (ALT) occurs when the Functional Status Query encounters a problem that is not defined as part of this scenario. OPERATOR FUNCTIONAL STATUS QUERY RESPONSE – This is an optional step. When the situation requires that a response to the operator is needed, the Step 7 (O) Functional Status Query response is returned to the requester with the status query information matching the criteria given in the request. This scenario ends at any of the ALT cases, or with a successful Functional Ends when Status Query response. This use case can encounter three basic alternate cases. OBJECT NOT FOUND – The first a Functional Status query is attempted on a non-existent O-Cloud resource. Exceptions NO CONTENT – The second alternate case is a “No Content” case where the Query parameters return an empty set. OTHER QUERY FAILURE – A problem occurs that is not defined as part of this use case. SUCCESS: Functional Status information is returned successfully matching the Post-conditions criteria in the functional status query request. FAILURE: An exception notification has been issued. Traceability REQ-ORC-O2-19, REQ-ORC-O2-20

#### 3.1.7.3 UML Sequence Diagram

### 3.1.8 Functional Status Update Use Case

#### 3.1.8.1 High Level Description
The purpose of the functional status update use case is to update the state and status of the O-Cloud Resources.

#### 3.1.8.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use The goal of this use case is to allow SMO to request to update the functional status of the O-Cloud Resources. This allows a user to update the state and status information of the O-Cloud Resources.
> NOTE 1: Some logical resources: the O-Cloud in aggregate, and O-Cloud
Resource pools, which are a collection of resources may or may not have a Goal status.
> NOTE 2: The state indicators give a sense of the current performance and
current fault situation for the O-Cloud Resource. Status update can be requested by the SMO (FOCOM) to the O-Cloud IMS. Furthermore, the API can be used by any entity. O-Cloud Operator – A Cloud Service Provider (CSP) or entity using the SMO. FOCOM/SMO – The FOCOM within the SMO is used in this use case to represent the initiator of the Functional Status Update request. IMS – The IMS in the O-Cloud responds to the Functional Status Update Actors and Roles request.
> NOTE 3: It is assumed in the use case flow that managed objects refer to
underlying O-Cloud Resources, so the interactions are shown towards the IMS. The use case could be revisited in future versions of the present document once additional analysis on the impacts of functional status update is done on various t ypes of managed objects, e.g., objects managed by the DMS. Assumptions O-CLOUD OPERATIONAL - The O-Cloud is operational. CONNECTIVITY - The SMO (FOCOM) has connectivity to IMS. Preconditions SECURITY - Security authorization, and privilege access has been established between the SMO (FOCOM) and IMS. This use case begins when either of the following two situations happens: 1. The O-Cloud Operator initiates a functional status update for an O- Cloud Resource. Begins when 2. The SMO initiates a functional status update.
> NOTE 4: while not depicted in the flow, any other entity with the proper
credentials can initiate a functional status update of the O-Cloud Resource. FUNCTIONAL STATUS UPDATE INITIATED FROM OPERATOR – A status Step 1.1 (ALT) update is initiated from the Operator to the SMO (FOCOM). FUNCTIONAL STATUS UPDATE INITIATED FROM SMO – A status update is Step 1.2 (ALT) initiated from the SMO (FOCOM) directly. FUNCTIONAL STATUS UPDATE REQUEST FROM FOCOM TO IMS – A Step 2 (M) status update request is sent by the SMO (FOCOM) to the IMS. IMS updates the status of O-Cloud Resources. SUCCESSFUL STATUS RESPONSE – The response is returned to the SMO Step 3 (ALT) (FOCOM) for the functional status update. STATUS OBJECT NOT FOUND – This is an alt step. This is an exception case for the Functional Status Update basic case. In this situation, the managed Step 4 (ALT) object to be updated was not found. An “object not found” response is sent to the SMO (FOCOM). For example, a status update was requested to be performed on a non-existent O-Cloud Resource. STATUS OTHER UPDATE FAILURE – This is an alt step. This exception case occurs when the Functional Status Update encounters a problem that is not Step 5 (ALT) defined as part of this scenario. An “other update failure” response is sent to the SMO (FOCOM). OPERATOR FUNCTIONAL STATUS UPDATE RESPONSE – This is an optional step. When the situation requires that a response to the O-Cloud Step 6 (O) Operator is needed, the Functional Status Update response is returned to the requester by the SMO (FOCOM). This scenario ends at any of the ALT cases, or with a successful Functional Ends when Status Update response. This use case can encounter two basic exception cases. OBJECT NOT FOUND – The first a functional status update is attempted on a Exceptions non-existent O-Cloud Resource. OTHER UPDATE FAILURE – A problem occurs that is not defined as part of this use case. SUCCESS: Functional Status is updated successfully. Post-conditions FAILURE: An exception notification has been issued. Traceability REQ-ORC-O2-50, REQ-ORC-O2-51

#### 3.1.8.3 UML Sequence Diagram

### 3.1.9 IMS Software Update Use Case

#### 3.1.9.1 High Level Description
This use case focuses on the update of IMS software. For the O-Cloud Platform Software update, please see 3.1.6.

#### 3.1.9.2 Sequence Description
>>Uses<< Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal Update the O-Cloud IMS software. O-Cloud Operator Actors and Roles SMO: FOCOM Functions IMS Software updates to O-Cloud IMS are available. Assumptions IMS supports software update. 1) SMO is available 2) O-Cloud is operational and known to SMO Preconditions 3) Required IMS software image(s) are available in SMO (details on how IMS obtains the image(s) are FFS) 4) The IMS is healthy Begins when Decision to update the O-Cloud IMS software is made. O-Cloud Operator requests that SMO update O-Cloud IMS software Step 1 (M) version. SMO (FOCOM) queries IMS for current SW inventory, and IMS responds Step 2-3 (M) with SW inventory data. If SW inventory does not match required inventory: Step 4 (OPT) - SMO (FOCOM) triggers software download and validation procedure at the O-Cloud. The IMS triggers the download of the requested software version image(s) Step 5 (M) NOTE: IMS gets requested software package from the SMO (either using push or pull mechanism). IMS notifies SMO (FOCOM) that valid software is now available Step 6.1(ALT) ALT EXCEPTION: Requested IMS software version could not be downloaded Step 6.2 (ALT) IMS notifies SMO (FOCOM) that requested software could not be downloaded SMO (FOCOM) notifies the O-Cloud Operator that the IMS Software Update Step 6.3 (ALT) was unsuccessful SMO (FOCOM) requests pre-check procedure be done by IMS to determine Step 7 (M) if requested software update is acceptable or not. The IMS performs the pre-check on requested software version Step 8 (M) IMS responds to indicate that requested update is acceptable. Step 9.1 (ALT) ALT EXCEPTION: Requested IMS software version is not acceptable Step 9.2 (ALT) IMS notifies SMO (FOCOM) that requested IMS software version is not acceptable SMO (FOCOM) notifies the O-Cloud Operator that the requested IMS Step 9.3 (ALT) Software Update was unsuccessful If the pre-check indicates update is acceptable SMO (FOCOM) directs IMS Step 10 (M) to activate the software update. The IMS:
- Ensures its specific update conditions are met
Step 11 (M)
- Performs the update
- Performs its specific testing procedure(s)
IMS updates the O-Cloud Software Inventory Step 12.1 (ALT) IMS notifies SMO (FOCOM) that the Software Update procedure was Step 12.2 (ALT) performed successfully ALT EXCEPTION: Activation of requested software failed During the Update procedure, IMS encounters some failure and rolls back Step 12.3 (ALT) any update(s) made. IMS notifies SMO (FOCOM) that the IMS Software Update procedure was unsuccessful SMO (FOCOM) sends O-Cloud Software Update response Step 13 (M) IMS software update has been performed successfully or when one of the Ends when Exception cases have been encountered Requested IMS software version could not be downloaded – This exception is encountered when the requested software could not be downloaded by IMS Requested IMS software version is not acceptable – This exception is Exceptions encountered when the IMS determines that the downloaded software version is not acceptable Activation of requested software failed - This exception is encountered when the IMS encounters an error during the Update procedure Update is successful:
- O-Cloud running with the requested IMS software version.
- IMS holds updated SW inventory.
- SMO holds updated inventory.
Post Conditions An Exception occurred:
- O-Cloud is running with the same IMS software version as at onset
of the Use Case Traceability [REQ-ORC-O2-75], [REQ-ORC-O2-76]

#### 3.1.9.3 UML Sequence Diagram

### 3.1.10 DMS Software Update Use Case

#### 3.1.10.1 High Level Description
This use case focuses on the update (upgrade/downgrade) of a DMS software within an O-Cloud. For the O-Cloud platform upgrade (e.g., Kubernetes), please see 3.1.6.

#### 3.1.10.2 Sequence Description
>>Uses<< Use Case Evolution / Specification Stage Related use Goal Software Update (upgrade/downgrade) of a DMS within an O-Cloud. O-Cloud Operator Actors and SMO: FOCOM Functions Roles IMS

# A DMS within the O-Cloud
IMS supports update (upgrade/downgrade) of a DMS software Assumptions within the O-Cloud 1. SMO is available Preconditions 2. O-Cloud is operational and known to SMO 3. Required DMS software is available 4. The IMS is healthy Decision to update the software of a DMS within an O-Cloud is Begins when made. O-Cloud Operator requests that SMO updates the software version Step 1 (M) of a DMS within an O-Cloud. SMO (FOCOM) queries IMS for current SW inventory, and IMS Step 2-3 (M) responds with SW inventory data. If SW inventory does not match required inventory: Step 4 (OPT) SMO (FOCOM) provides the software version information to the IMS. When the SMO (FOCOM) has not provided the actual software Step 5 (M) image(s), the IMS obtains the requested DMS software version image(s). IMS notifies SMO (FOCOM) that requested software is now Step 6.1(ALT) available ALT EXCEPTION: Requested DMS software version could not be obtained Step 6.2 (ALT) IMS notifies SMO (FOCOM) that requested DMS software could not be obtained SMO (FOCOM) notifies the O-Cloud Operator that the DMS Step 6.3 (ALT) Software Update was unsuccessful SMO (FOCOM) requests pre-check procedure be done by IMS to Step 7 (M) determine if requested DMS software update is acceptable or not. The IMS performs the pre-check on requested DMS software Step 8 (M) version Step 9.1 (ALT) IMS responds to indicate that requested DMS update is acceptable. ALT EXCEPTION: Requested DMS software version is not acceptable Step 9.2 (ALT) IMS notifies SMO (FOCOM) that requested DMS software version is not acceptable SMO (FOCOM) notifies the O-Cloud Operator that the requested Step 9.3 (ALT) DMS Software Update was unsuccessful If the pre-check indicates update is acceptable, SMO (FOCOM) Step 10 (M) directs IMS to install the new software. The IMS allocates needed resources (if necessary) and installs the requested DMS software The IMS: Step 11 (M)
- Marks the DMS as modified
- Performs its specific testing procedure(s)
The updated DMS performs basic testing (e.g., pre-flight checks) Step 12.1(ALT) IMS updates the O-Cloud SW inventory IMS sends Inventory Change Notification if SMO (FOCOM) has Step 12.2 (O) subscribed IMS notifies SMO (FOCOM) that the DMS Software Update Step 12.3(ALT) procedure was performed successfully ALT EXCEPTION: Activation of requested software failed During the Update procedure, IMS encounters some failure and rolls Step 12.4 back any update(s) made. (ALT) IMS notifies SMO (FOCOM) that the DMS Software Update procedure was unsuccessful SMO (FOCOM) sends O-Cloud Software Update response Step 13 (M) DMS software update has been performed successfully or when one Ends when of the Exception cases have been encountered Requested DMS software version could not be obtained – This exception is encountered when the requested DMS software could not be obtained by IMS Requested DMS software version is not acceptable – This Exceptions exception is encountered when the IMS determines that the DMS software version is not acceptable Activation of requested software failed - This exception is encountered when the IMS encounters an error during the DMS Update procedure Update is successful:
- O-Cloud is running with the updated DMS active with the
requested software version. Post - IMS holds updated SW inventory. Conditions - SMO holds updated inventory. An Exception occurred: O-Cloud is running with the same DMS software version as at onset of the Use Case Traceability [REQ-ORC-O2-79], [REQ-ORC-O2-80]

#### 3.1.10.3 UML Sequence Diagram

### 3.1.11 Query Information Use Case

#### 3.1.11.1 High Level Description
This is an O-Cloud basic use case that governs the behavior and flow for getting readable attributes of objects in the O2 Information Model by a qualified entity. The entity would usually be the SMO or O-Cloud Operator; however, it could also be another authorized user/technician, or authorized management function. The Query Information Use Case enables an authorized consumer to query and retrieve various information related to the O-Cloud infrastructure and its resources. The Query filter identifies a set of objects of interest for the Query operation. If no filter is given with the Query, then all objects are qualified, and the Query would return information on all objects. The attribute selector within the Query request is used to indicate the attributes that are of interest from the set of objects identified in the filter. If no attribute selector is specified, then the Query response returns all information of the qualified objects given in the filter.
> NOTE: The Query operation could return attributes of the Read/Write property that is read-only, read & write but not
write-only. There are existing Query use cases in this document that act on specific objects in the information model. This Query Information use case describes the overall behavior applicable to query use cases.

#### 3.1.11.2 Sequence Description
Use Case Evolution / Specification >>Uses<< Stage Use Case Title Query Information Use Case The goal of the Query Information Use Case is the following:
- To return information on objects of interest specified in the Query filter
within the Query Information request. If the Query filter contains both objects that do and do not exist, then the request will return information only for those objects that do exist.
- To return all information on all objects if no objects are specified in the
Goal Query filter within the Query Information request.
- To return read-only and read & write attribute value(s) of objects of
interest specified in the attribute selector within the Query Information request. If the attribute selector contains both attributes that do and do not exist, then the request will return information only for the attribute(s) that do exist. NOTE 1: queries for write-only attributes are not honored.
- To return all attribute value(s) of object(s) of interest if no attribute selector
is specified within the Query Information request.
- To Provide a framework for Query Information that applies to all APIs.
Cloud Operator – The Cloud operator is a consumer (or entity) using or interfacing with the SMO (FOCOM). Actors and SMO (FOCOM) – The FOCOM within the SMO is used in this use case to Roles represent any consumer of the Query information response. IMS – The IMS within the O-Cloud processes the Query Information request and receives the request over the O2ims interface. Assumptions There are no assumptions for this use case Connectivity – The Subscriber has connectivity to the publisher by some mechanism. O-Cloud Operational – The O-Cloud is installed, operating, and registered with Preconditions the SMO. Privilege – The consumer identification and privileges of a SMO user have been verified to be able to perform O2 operations. The use case begins when: Begins when (1) An operator at the SMO wishes to query for information in the O- Cloud, or (2) A management entity, typically the SMO, autonomously wishes to query for information in the O-Cloud QUERY INFORMATION REQUEST INITIATED FROM OPERATOR (ALT) – The authorized entities initiate a Query Information request with a query filter and an attribute selector. An authorized entity would usually be the O-Cloud Operator; however, it could also be another authorized management function. Step 1.1 (ALT) The query filter specifies the objects of interest for the Query Information request. The attribute selector specifies the relevant attributes for the objects of interest. QUERY INFORMATION REQUEST INITIATED FROM SMO (ALT) – The SMO autonomously initiates a Query Information request with a query filter and an attribute selector. Step 1.2 (ALT) The query filter specifies the objects of interest for the Query Information request. The attribute selector specifies the relevant attributes for the objects of interest. QUERY INFORMATION REQUEST OVER O2 INTERFACE – Either the Operator initiated, or the SMO autonomously initiated a Query Information Request from Steps 1.1 or 1.2 which both result in a Query Step 2 (M) Information Request over the O2 interface. Connection authentication is verified by the IMS. The IMS process the Query Information request. IMS PROCESSES REQUEST The IMS authenticates the connection. The IMS processes the Query Information request. SUCCESSFUL QUERY INFORMATION – Step 3 (ALT) If the Query Information operation was successful, the IMS passes to FOCOM (SMO) the results matching the Query filter and attribute selector in the Query Information request. See the goals (above) for how the filter and selector are expected to work.
> NOTE 2: If the attribute selector requests for a write-only attribute, this would be
a valid query information request, but it would not return a value (see the goals above). It would be left to implementation on the specific behavior. EXCEPTION: QUERY WITH NO EXISTING OBJECTS OR ATTRIBUTES Step 4 (ALT) (ALT) This exception is encountered when a Query Information request specifies objects and attributes that do not exist. There are no objects that match in the query filter and/or there are no attributes that match in the attribute selector. EXCEPTION: QUERY WITH NO EXISTING OBJECTS OR ATTRIBUTES (ALT) Step 5 (ALT) The SMO returns to the requesting entity that a query with no existing objects or attributes exception was encountered. The IMS encountered an unexpected condition, such as an internal software fault. Step 6 (ALT) EXCEPTION: UNEXPECTED CONDITION (ALT) – If possible, the IMS returns to FOCOM (SMO) that it has encountered an unexpected condition (software fault). EXCEPTION: UNEXPECTED CONDITION (ALT) – A response is sent to the requesting entity from the SMO, that the IMS Step 7 (ALT) encountered an unexpected condition processing the request. The Use Case ends. QUERY INFORMATION RESPONSE The SMO returns to the requesting entity a Query Information response with the results matching the Query filter and attribute selector in the Query Information Step 8 (ALT) request. See the goals (above) for how the filter and selector are expected to work. This step is a matching to step 1.1 This Use Case ends when the Query Information operation has either Ends when successfully been accomplished or one of the two exception cases have been encountered. EXCEPTION: QUERY WITH NO EXISTING OBJECTS OR ATTRIBUTES This exception is encountered when a Query Information request specifies objects and attributes that do not exist. An exception notification will be returned; and the use case will end this this situation. Exceptions EXCEPTION: UNEXPECTED CONDITION The IMS encountered an unexpected condition, such as an internal software fault. An exception notification will be returned; and the use case will end this this situation. SUCCESS – The requests objects and requested attributes from the Query filter and attribute selector respectively are enclosed in the Query Information response back to the requesting entity or the SMO if the request was Post-conditions autonomously initiated by the SMO. FAILURE – The request was not able to be completed. No other “clean up” needs to occur. An exception notification has been issued. Traceability [REQ-ORC-O2-3], [REQ-ORC-O2-96]

#### 3.1.11.3 UML Sequence Diagram

## 3.2 Network Function Basic Use Cases

### 3.2.1 NF Deployment Instantiation

#### 3.2.1.1 High Level Description
This Use Case describes the instantiation of a new NF Deployment on an O-Cloud. The following Use Case adopts terms from the high-level model described in Clause 4 of the OAM Architecture [5]. For definition purposes the terms adopted are defined below. However, if the definition is in conflict with the OAM Architecture, then the OAM Architecture will supersede these definitions. DeploymentDescriptor: The Deployment Descriptor describes a deployment option that has been validated by the Solution Provider of the application. The Deployment Descriptor contains design-time information and data that describes an application and that is used by the SMO for the deployment of the application workload. The NF Deployment instantiation on the O-Cloud may be part of a larger procedure instantiating multiple NF Deployments and of multiple connected Cloudified NFs, in which case the SMO will coordinate the timing of instantiation across O-Clouds and O-Cloud Nodes, the configuration of transport needed between O-Cloud Nodes and other requirements such as addressing and security used for connecting the Network Functions. The NF Deployment instantiation can also be performed in the context of an upgrade of a Cloudified NF.

#### 3.2.1.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal Instantiate an NF Deployment on the O-Cloud. NFO – Network Function Orchestration Actors and Roles

# D MS – Deployment Management Services
Assumptions There are no assumptions for this use case. 1) SMO is available. 2) The O-Cloud instance has been installed successfully as per “O- Cloud Deployment Processing” use case. 3) NF Deployment package has been onboarded onto the SMO. The NF Deployment package contains a DeploymentDescriptor that provides the deployment and resource requirements for the NF Deployment. 4) The DeploymentDescriptor for the NF Deployment has been selected and runtime variables for the selected Preconditions DeploymentDescriptor are determined. 5) Homing of the NF Deployment has been determined based on the infrastructure requirements in the DeploymentDescriptor and the specific absolute homing requirements (e.g., target O-Cloud) or relative constraints (e.g., affinities/anti-affinities). See note 1. 6) The O-Cloud Node Cluster has been provisioned (through the IMS) with capabilities required for the NF Deployments. 7) The DMS in the O-Cloud is available and connected to the SMO. Begins when New NF Deployment is determined to be deployed on the O-Cloud. NFO requests the DMS to instantiate the new NF Deployment. Step 1 (M) See note 2. DMS allocates the resources according to the NF Deployment request. During the NF Deployment instantiation, initial configuration based on NFO’s Step 2 (M) provided configuration values can take place, e.g., to enable NF Deployment connectivity. NFO receives information about the NF Deployment instantiation Step 3 (M) completion. NF Deployment has been instantiated on the O-Cloud. Ends when Exceptions None identified. NFO updates the composition of the Cloudified NF based on the NF Deployment instantiation, and Cloudified NF Registration follows (O-RAN Post Conditions WG10.O1-Interface [6], clause 6.10.1, which is out of scope for the present use case). REQ-ORC-GEN18; REQ-ORC-GEN19; REQ-ORC-GEN20; REQ-ORC-O1- Traceability 1; REQ-ORC-O2-10; REQ-DESC-1, REQ-DESC-2, REQ-DESC-3
> NOTE 1: This can range from a trivial exercise (e.g., the NF Deployment Request identifies the target O-Cloud by
Cloud Id) to a highly complex exercise (if the SMO were to determine an appropriate vacant O-Cloud instance based on homing policies such as latency tolerance, NF Deployment requirements to cloud capability matching, etc.).
> NOTE 2: It is not precluded that one or multiple interactions between the NFO and DMS are performed for the NF
Deployment instantiation.

#### 3.2.1.3 UML sequence diagram

### 3.2.2 NF Deployment Scale Out

#### 3.2.2.1 High Level Description
This use case describes an SMO initiated scale out of an NF Deployment in order to expand its capacity. This results in horizontal elasticity as allocating additional resources to the NF Deployment enables it to provide its functionality at the desired performance and capacity level.
> NOTE: An NF Deployment is part of a Cloudified NF, thus expanding the capacity of the NF Deployment
consequently also expands the capacity of a Cloudified NF.

#### 3.2.2.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use To allocate additional resources to an NF Deployment on the O-Cloud to Goal meet its service demands. SMO: NFO Actors and Roles DMS NF Deployment 1) SMO has collected the necessary information to scale out the NF Deployment e.g., information from NF Deployment descriptor. Assumptions 2) The NFO receives a trigger to scale out an NF Deployment.

# 3 ) NF Deployment monitoring is operational.
1) SMO is available Preconditions 2) The DMS in the O-Cloud is available and connected to the SMO. 3) N F Deployment is instantiated. SMO determines that scale out is needed and triggers the NFO to begin NF Begins when D eployment scale out. The NFO requests the DMS to scale out the NF Deployment by providing Step 1 (M) updated scaling information. The DMS scales the NF Deployment as per the received request by Step 2 (M) allocating the required resources to the NF Deployment. The DMS informs the NFO that the NF Deployment scaling was performed Step 3 (M) successfully. NF Deployment has been scaled out on the O-Cloud. Ends when DMS cannot allocate the required resources to scale out the NF Deployment. Exceptions If needed, reconfiguration of the NF Deployment may occur via the Cloudified Post Conditions NF and O1. REQ-ORC-GEN22 Traceability

#### 3.2.2.3 UML sequence diagram

#### 3.2.3.1 High Level Description
This Use Case describes an SMO initiated scale in of an NF Deployment in order to reduce its capacity to the desired level. This results in horizontal elasticity and allows the NF Deployment to consume only the resources it needs based on the level of demand.

#### 3.2.3.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use To deallocate O-Cloud resources from an NF Deployment to reduce its Goal capacity to the desired level. SMO: NFO Actors and Roles DMS NF Deployment 1) SMO has collected the necessary information to scale in the NF Deployment e.g., information from NF Deployment Assumptions descriptor. 2) The NFO receives a trigger to scale in an NF Deployment. 3) NF Deployment monitoring is operational. 1) SMO is available Preconditions 2) The DMS in the O-Cloud is available and connected to the SMO. 3) T he NF Deployment is instantiated. SMO determines that NF Deployment scale in is needed and triggers the Begins when NFO to begin NF Deployment Scale In. The NFO requests the DMS to scale in the NF Deployment by providing Step 1 (M) updated scaling information. The DMS scales the NF Deployment as per the received request by Step 2 (M) deallocating resources from the NF Deployment. The DMS informs the NFO that the NF Deployment scaling was Step 3 (M) performed successfully. NF Deployment has been scaled in on the O-Cloud. Ends when DMS cannot deallocate the resources to scale in the NF Deployment. Exceptions If needed, reconfiguration of the NF Deployment may occur via the Post Conditions Cloudified NF and O1. REQ-ORC-GEN23 Traceability

#### 3.2.3.3 UML sequence diagram

### 3.2.4 NF Deployment Software Modification

#### 3.2.4.1 Introduction
NF Deployment software modification Use Case describes SMO-managed modification (upgrade or downgrade) to the software of the NF Deployment. Various approaches, such as build and replace, canary, blue-green, rolling deployment, and more complex scenarios can be used to minimize the risk of traffic loss and ensure smooth transitions during the NF Deployment software modification process.

#### 3.2.4.2 Build and Replace Approach for NF Deployment Software Modification

##### 3.2.4.2.1 High Level Description
This Use Case describes SMO-managed modification (upgrade or downgrade) to the software of the NF Deployment implementing a build and replace approach. This approach utilizes a graceful or soft upgrade or downgrade where the existing NF Deployment is not deleted until a desired NF Deployment instance can substitute its functionality.

##### 3.2.4.2.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use To modify (upgrade or downgrade) the software version of a NF Deployment Goal to the desired one. NFO Actors and Roles DMS 1) The NF Deployment running in the O-Cloud has a software version Assumptions different than the one desired in SMO. 1) SMO is available. 2) O-Cloud is available. 3) The DMS in the O-Cloud is available and connected to the SMO. 4) The existing (to be replaced) NF Deployment has been deployed. Preconditions 5) The desired version of the NF Deployment software is available on the O-Cloud software image repository. 6) The O-Cloud platform has enough resources to support the instantiation and operation of the NF Deployment. NF Deployment is determined to be modified on the O-Cloud with a desired Begins when software version. NFO instantiates the desired NF Deployment (see clause 3.2.1). 3.2.1 NF Step 1 (M) NFO verifies if the desired NF Deployment is properly instantiated. Deployment Instantiation If the desired NF Deployment is behaving as expected, NFO triggers 3.2.5 NF Step 2.1 (ALT) termination of the existing NF Deployment (see clause 3.2.5). Deployment Termination If there is a problem with the desired NF Deployment, NFO triggers 3.2.5 NF Step 2.2 (ALT) termination of the desired NF Deployment (see clause 3.2.5). Deployment Termination The NF Deployment software has been modified to the desired version Ends when substituting the functionality of the existing NF Deployment. 1) Errors are encountered by the DMS or NFO on the desired NF Exceptions Deployment software that trigger the rollback of the operation. Post Conditions NF Deployment is changed to desired software version. REQ-ORC-GEN33, REQ-ORC-GEN34, REQ-ORC-GEN35 Traceability

##### 3.2.4.2.3 UML sequence diagram

### 3.2.5 NF Deployment Termination

#### 3.2.5.1 High Level Description
This Use Case describes the termination of a NF Deployment on an O-Cloud, and response to the SMO once the termination of resources for the NF Deployment has been completed.

#### 3.2.5.2 Sequence description
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal To terminate NF Deployment that has been instantiated in the O-Cloud. NFO Actors and Roles DMS 1) The SMO has identified the NF Deployment to be terminated. Assumptions 2) The NF Deployment to be terminated does not provide services. 1) SMO is available. Pre-condition 2) NF Deployment is instantiated. 3) The DMS in the O-Cloud is available and connected to the SMO. Begins when Existing NF Deployment is determined to be terminated on the O-Cloud. Step 1 (M) The NFO requests the DMS to terminate the NF Deployment by providing relevant information e.g. NF Deployment identifier. Step 2 (M) The DMS terminates the NF Deployment and deallocates the O-Cloud resources assigned to that NF Deployment. The DMS informs the NFO about the NF Deployment termination result. Step 3 (M) NF Deployment in the O-Cloud has been terminated. Ends when DMS cannot terminate the requested NF Deployment due to, e.g. incorrect NF Exceptions Deployment identifier, internal O-Cloud error, etc. Termination is successful:
- NF Deployment has been terminated.
Post Conditions An Exception occurred:
- O-Cloud did not terminate NF Deployment.
REQ-ORC-O2-11 Traceability

#### 3.2.5.3 UML sequence diagram

## 3.3 Near-RT RIC/xAPP Use Cases

### 3.3.1 Configure O-Cloud for Near-RT RIC

#### 3.3.1.1 High Level Description
This Use Case defines an optional procedure using Custom Resources to configure a Kubernetes O-Cloud to support the Near-RT RIC function by using, as an example, the Kubernetes® Custom Resource Definitions (CRD).
> NOTE 1: Similar procedure may be used for O-Cloud configuration for other functions as well.
> NOTE 2: Kubernetes® and K8s® are registered trademarks of the Linux Foundation, in the United States and other
countries. O-RAN is not affiliated with, endorsed or sponsored by the Linux Foundation. The Near-RT RIC may require a Custom Resource to ensure proper lifecycle management of the near-RT RIC and its xAPPs. This capability has to be added to the O-Cloud prior to a near-RT RIC service deployment. There are multiple ways to add a custom resource. For example, Custom Resource Definitions (CRD) is easier and requires no programming. Another possibility is to use API Aggregation which requires programming but is more flexible in terms of API behaviors. Both options require a "service" in Kubernetes to be deployed. The following example illustrates the CRD initial installation.

#### 3.3.1.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Enable the cloud to advertise to the SMO that it supports a Near-RT RIC Goal deployment. Cloud Installation Project Manager Actors and Roles SMO: NFO DMS O-Cloud is Kubernetes based and an instance of the Near-RT RIC Custom Assumptions Resource Definition has not been previously installed 1) SMO is available 2) O-Cloud is available Preconditions 3) Near-RT RIC Service Type Descriptor has been onboarded to the SMO Cloud Installation Project Manager identifies that the O-Cloud is intended to Begins when support the deployment of a Near-RT RIC Cloud Install Project Manager makes request to SMO to deploy the CRD Step 1 (M) Service to an O-Cloud enabling it to support Near-RT RIC deployments The SMO decomposes the service request and identifies all O-Clouds to be Step 2 (M) enabled. These steps are repeated for each O-Cloud to be enabled. Steps 3-5 SMO request O-Cloud to create the CRD (Deploy Service) Step 3 (M) DMS returns status update when created Step 4 (M) The SMO recognizes that the O-Cloud can now support Near-RT RIC Step 5 (M) deployments and updates the O-Cloud Capabilities using the O-Cloud Inventory Update process in clause 3.1.4. The SMO informs the Cloud Installation Project Manager of the overall Step 6 (M) success or failure of the request. O-Cloud cannot support CRD Service deployment or deployment fails. Exceptions Deployment is cancelled and SMO is notified of failure. SMO informs Project Manager. O-Cloud can support Near-RT RIC deployments. Post Conditions SMO holds updated inventory. Traceability

#### 3.3.1.3 UML Sequence Diagram

### 3.3.2 Deploy xAPP in Near-RT RIC

#### 3.3.2.1 High Level Description
xAPPs are developed independent of the near-RT RIC in which they execute. This Use Case describes how an xAPP is instantiated and associated with a near-RT RIC.

#### 3.3.2.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use xAPP deployment is instantiated on Near-RT RIC, resulting in enhanced Goal capabilities. Configuration and communication between xAPP and SMO is mediated by the ME containing the Near-RT RIC MF. xAPP Install Project Manager NFO – Network Function Orchestration OAM Functions Actors and Roles DMS – Deployment Management Services Near-RT RIC xAPP The “Service Request” to the SMO for the new xAPP(s) may include Assumptions information for the SMO to use for homing purposes, such as desired xAPP or xAPP type(s) associated with O-Cloud or RIC Instance 1) SMO is available 2) The O-Cloud instance has been installed successfully as per “O- Cloud Deployment Processing” use case. 3) Near-RT RIC NF has been deployed successfully on the O-Cloud instance and has been activated and has connected to the SMO using O1 Preconditions 4) xAPP has been onboarded onto the SMO containing an xAPP descriptor that provides the deployment requirements for the xAPP. 5) No MOI exists for the xAPP in the Near-RT RIC 6) xAPP Install Project Manager has selected a deployment option from the Run Time Library and determined runtime variables for the selected option Begins when New xAPP(s) are to be instantiated on a Near-RT RIC hosted on an O-Cloud Network Function Install Project Manager makes request to SMO to deploy Step 1 (M) new xAPP(s) on the Near-RT RIC The SMO decomposes the service request and identifies all xAPPs to be Step 2 (M) deployed and the order in which they should be deployed. These steps are repeated for each xAPP to be deployed as part of the service Steps 3-15 request. The SMO determines which O-Cloud and Near-RT RIC Instance to deploy the xAPP to. This can be done using Policies which match operator input or Step 3 (M) other more complex homing policies or can be explicitly identified by the Project Manager. If SMO needs additional deployment-related information for the template override, e.g., the Near-RT RIC API NodePort assignment, SMO uses O1 to Step 4 (O) retrieve configuration data from the Near-RT RIC, otherwise SMO uses internal stored data 1) SMO maps known RIC variables to xAPP variables to allow RIC and xAPP to interoperate and fills in the xAPP configuration with Step 5 (M) assigned values. 2) SMO uses config information to determine template override parameters for xAPP and create an override file (see Note) For each xAPP Deployment of the xAPP, steps 6 - 10 take place: Step 6 (M) SMO retrieves the CloudNativeDescriptor from the Run Time Library for the current xAPP Deployment. SMO directs the O-Cloud DMS using O2 to create the xAPP Deployment Step 7 (M) DMS allocates the resources according to the xAPP Deployment request. Step 8 (M) During xAPP Deployment instantiation, initial SMO connectivity configuration can take place. DMS returns notification to SMO over O2 indicating that the xAPP Step 9 (M) deployment has been created and the Deployment ID SMO updates its xAPP inventory with the received Deployment ID Step 10 (M) The xAPP reads its initial configuration. Once complete, xAPP registers with the Near-RT RIC and exchanges its schemas and initial configuration as Steps 11-14 (M) needed. Near-RT RIC uses this information to create and populate the xAPP MOI(s), including configuring E2 subscriptions, A1 Policies supported, A1 Enrichment Subscriptions, and inter xAPP data sharing. If the SMO has previously subscribed to CM notifications from the Near-RT RIC, then the Near-RT RIC sends SMO notification of an MOI create event. Step 15 (O) Note SMO will restart a new Netconf session to receive an update on Near- RT RIC capabilities including the newly deployed xAPP The SMO informs the Network Function Install Project Manager of the overall Steps 16 (M) success or failure of the request. xAPP(s) have been instantiated on the O-Cloud and configured by the SMO Ends when via the Near-RT RIC MOI Creation fails – Near RT RIC notifies SMO and SMO informs Network Function Install Project Manager Exceptions xAPP Deploy fails – DMS notifies SMO and SMO informs Network Function Install Project Manager xAPP is instantiated and incorporated under near-RT RIC management. Post Conditions SMO holds updated inventory that includes “deployment ID” Near-RT RIC holds MOI of the xAPP. REQ-ORC-GEN19, REQ-ORC-O1-2, REQ-ORC-O2-4 Traceability
> NOTE: Information could be, for example, RIC namespace, IP address or ports needed to access RIC services, as
determined by WG3

#### 3.3.2.3 UML Sequence Diagram

## 3.4 Multi-vendor network provisioning in a mixed PNF/VNF
environment

# A Use Case description of multi-vendor provisioning of an O-RAN service can be found in the O-RAN OAM
Architecture specification [5].

## 3.5 Reconfiguration of O-RAN Virtual Network Function(s)

### 3.5.1 High Level Description
A common orchestration request is the reconfiguration of one or a set of cloud-based O-RAN Virtual Network Functions in order to affect the behavior of the RAN. The action taken could be, for example, to re-optimize network traffic patterns or update the load balancing of traffic across the RAN network. The trigger for this action could be any number of events such as non-real time traffic analysis by the Non-RT RIC, or input from non-RAN sources such as upcoming natural events or scheduled human events. In such cases the SMO will either be told or determine by its own analysis which Virtual Network Functions need reconfiguration and in which order this is done if multiple Virtual Network Functions are involved. If a problem develops during reconfiguration then SMO may optionally invoke a fallback procedure to revert the Virtual Network Functions to their original configuration. As in reconfiguration of PNFs, O1 Interface [6] Provisioning Management is used.
> NOTE: There may be a need for SMO to initially reroute traffic away from the affected Virtual Network
Functions and subsequently revert traffic to the original patterns. This could be done by using Network Function Reconfiguration on adjacent Network Functions that send or receive information from the affected Network Functions.

### 3.5.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Reconfigure O-RAN Virtual Network Functions based on the need to modify Goal RAN network behavior, for example re-optimize traffic patterns or load balance traffic in response to new conditions. SMO: OAM Functions Actors and Roles SMO/Non-RT RIC: source point for RAN policy control function Other RAN Elements: O-CU, O-DU 1) All relevant functions and components are instantiated. 2) O1 interface connectivity is established with RAN elements. Assumptions 3) SMO will reconfigure transport as needed to accommodate traffic rerouting, reconfigured network functions and traffic reversion 1) Network is operational. 2) SMO has established the data collection and sharing process, and Preconditions SMO/Non-RT RIC has access to this data. 3) Trigger conditions for reconfiguration are set in the SMO/Non-RT RIC, e.g., by the network operator. SMO/Non-RT RIC analyses performance data or other inputs and determines Begins when that reconfiguration of RAN network functions is required. SMO/Non-RT RIC request NF reconfiguration. SMO/OAM Functions Step 1 (M) determines an order of reconfiguration across affected RAN network functions. SMO performs relevant configuration updates in RAN over O1 interface for each network function that needs to be reconfigured, in an order determined by SMO Step 2-4 (M) or specified to SMO. Detailed procedures for O1 provisioning follow [6] section 2.1. SMO determines via notification from the affected network functions that Step 5-7 (M) reconfiguration has been successful SMO/Non-RT RIC monitors the performance of the RAN following Step 8 (M) reconfiguration by collecting and monitoring the relevant performance KPIs and counters using O1 If a fallback procedure has been identified by SMO and it determines that Step 9-11 (O) reconfiguration has not been successful, SMO initiates fallback by configuring the affected network functions back to their original configuration. The SMO/Non-RT RIC verifies that the O-RAN Virtual Network Function’s Ends when performance monitoring conforms to the reconfiguration. Exceptions None identified O-RAN Virtual Network Functions have been reconfigured. Post Conditions SMO/Non-RT RIC continues to monitor the performance of the RAN by collecting and monitoring the relevant performance KPIs and counters using O1 Traceability REQ-ORC-GEN21; REQ-ORC-O1-2

### 3.5.3 UML sequence diagram

## 3.6 Recovery Use Cases

### 3.6.1 Introduction
When an operator experiences problems with an O-Cloud NF Deployment(s), O-Cloud Node(s), or O-Cloud instance, it is possible for the operator to initiate a recovery at different levels of the O-Cloud. These can include the following: 1. Application-level healing This causes an application within an NF on the O-Cloud to be healed on operator request, and is accomplished through the O1 interface between SMO and the associated NF. Typically, the network operator tries to execute the Application level healing as part of recovering from NF’s application failures via O1. The Application level healing is out of scope of the present document since it is foreseen that the interactions are only on the O1 interface. 2. NF Deployment level healing (refer to clause 3.6.2) Another level of healing is by acting upon the NF Deployments (e.g., workloads in Kubernetes case) that realize an NF instance, where either the network operator can execute the NF Deployment level healing via O2dms, or the O-Cloud internal deployment management functions can execute built-in or configured procedures for auto- healing of the NF Deployment, e.g., based on workload monitoring in O-Cloud. When the healing of an NF Deployment within an O-Cloud is triggered via an operator request, it is accomplished through the O2dms interface between SMO and the DMS responsible for the deployment management services of the NF Deployment of concern. In the case of auto-healing, the DMS may automatically trigger healing of the NF Deployment, where no operator request over O2dms interface is necessary. 3. O-Cloud Node level healing (refer to clause 3.6.3) This causes one or more O-Cloud Nodes within an O-Cloud to be healed on operator request, and is accomplished through the O2ims interface between SMO and the IMS responsible for infrastructure management services for that O-Cloud Node. This can be used as part of recovery of the resources within the O-Cloud, i.e., the O-Cloud Node level healing. It is also possible that IMS executes built-in or configured procedures for auto-healing of the O-Cloud Node. This level of healing needs extra trigger considerations because it can affect multiple NFs running on the O-Cloud Node(s). For instance, "draining" the O-Cloud Node (i.e., migrating the NF deployments out from the affected O-Cloud Node) and/or setting the O-Cloud Node into maintenance mode can be done before requesting the O-Cloud Node healing. Related NF deployment requirements from the NF deployment descriptor and cloud native descriptors that are available to the O-Cloud DMS are taken into consideration as part of the O- Cloud Node healing (e.g., graceful evacuation of Pods based on Pod disruption budgets set for that NF). In the case of auto-healing, the IMS may automatically trigger healing of the O-Cloud Node, where no operator requires over O2ims interface is necessary. 4. O-Cloud instance level healing This causes an O-Cloud instance to be healed on operator request. This last level of healing, i.e., O-Cloud instance level healing, can be seen as a last resort action and it needs extra trigger considerations because it can affect multiple NFs and O-Cloud Nodes residing in the O-Cloud instance. Editor’s Note: It is for further study whether this can be accomplished through the O2 interface. The ordering or which one of the healings to use or execute is up to network operator policies, e.g., in some cases a cascading might be tried, while in other cases the operator might decide to activate a specific healing without cascading among them. For illustrative purposes, the following is explanation about typical system reset cases in legacy deployments. In legacy deployment cases, when the xNB experiences some issue at the software level, e.g., the software on the xNB is not responding to the operations of the remote management tool due to possible software failures, “physical hardware” level reset is performed to re-gain software level control. For performing this action, typically an OSS sends a “system reset” signal to the target xNB. This procedure is necessary to reset the system (CU and DU) in xNB without performing a “manual intervention” at the radio antenna site, e.g., “personnel pushing power button”. Figure 3-16 illustrates an example of remote system reset in the legacy deployment case. System reset does not apply in exactly the same way for recovery of NF and O-Cloud systems but healing at different levels can be supported using O2 as described above.

### 3.6.2 Network Function Deployment Level Healing Use Case

#### 3.6.2.1 High Level Description
Depending on the O-Cloud technology, in some cases the capability of auto-healing of the NF deployments is available intrinsically in the O-Cloud platform. In that case, the NF deployment requirements from the NF deployment descriptors and cloud native descriptors are taken into account together with the runtime state of the NF Deployment in O-Cloud, to activate the NF Deployment auto-healing process. When such O-Cloud DMS capability is not available or there is a need for an operator triggered recovery as one or more O-RAN NF(s) is (are) experimenting some failure, and the error could not be fixed by using the O1 interface services, then as a possible step, the network operator could trigger SMO to request the DMS to perform an NF Deployment level healing to attempt to fix the problem. The healing of an NF Deployment may be performed via different means depending on the type of resources required for the NF Deployment (e.g., VM or container). For instance, both in VM-based and container-based NF Deployments, the capability to restart the VM or OS Container/Pod can be leveraged. The NF Deployment could be restarted (stop and start), or its associated resources be reallocated/replaced on the same or different O-Cloud Nodes.
> NOTE: Alternatively, if the O-Cloud cannot perform the healing, new NF Deployment instances can be created on
O-Cloud Nodes with resources of equivalent characteristics and profile as defined in that NF deployment descriptors and cloud native descriptors. This can be performed in the context of service recovery, not a healing of a specific NF Deployment. This use case describes the procedure to attempt to heal specific NF Deployments using the O2dms interface services.

#### 3.6.2.2 Sequence description
Evolution / Specification <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Related use SMO and DMS attempt to fix the failure on O-RAN NF’s responsiveness, via Goal the O2 interface by requesting the healing of the associated NF Deployments. Network Operator SMO: NFO/OAM Functions Actors and Roles DMS NF Deployment 1) Notification Event has been configured in the DMS by the SMO to inform SMO of issues with NF deployments Assumptions 2) NF does not respond on O1 3) SMO can be aware of NF Deployments failures, e.g., via notifications (see 1)) 1) SMO is available 2) The O-Cloud has been installed and activated and is known to SMO Preconditions 3) The O2 interface exists between the O-Cloud and SMO and is functional. This use case begins when either of the following two situations happens: 1. Network operations has determined, either by explicit request or via some network operation policies , to trigger the NF Deployment level Begins when healing and SMO has a work order with the specific set of NF Deployments to heal. 2. DMS detects some faults with NF Deployment and triggers auto- healing SMO requests to the DMS using O2dms services to heal one or more NF Step 1.1 (ALT) Deployments. DMS initiates auto-healing Step 1.2 (ALT) If SMO has previously subscribed to the status update of the NF Deployment, DMS notifies SMO of the start of healing. Step 2(O)
> NOTE 1: The notification may be sent in both cases before SMO-initiated
healing and auto-healing. The DMS performs the healing of the NF Deployments indicated in the request or determined via auto-healing. Step 3 (M)
> NOTE 2: Step 3 can be looped for each NF Deployments to heal.
> NOTE 3: Regarding the “healing” mechanisms, see also description in clause
3.6.2.1. STATUS UPDATE NOTIFICATION – When the situation requires that a NF Deployment status change notification to the SMO is needed, the NF Deployment status change notification is returned to the SMO by the DMS. Step 4 (O)
> NOTE 4: The notification may be sent in both cases after SMO initiated
healing and auto-healing. Healing of NF Deployment(s) is completed. Ends when None identified. Exceptions NF Deployments have been healed. Post Conditions REQ-ORC-O2-12, REQ-ORC-O2-77 Traceability

#### 3.6.2.3 UML sequence diagram

### 3.6.3 O-Cloud Node Level Healing Use Case

#### 3.6.3.1 High Level Description
Depending on the O-Cloud technology, in some cases the capability of auto-healing of the O-Cloud Nodes is available intrinsically in the O-Cloud platform. When such O-Cloud IMS capability is not available or there is a need for an operator triggered recovery as one or more O-RAN NF(s) is (are) experiencing some failure, and the error could not be fixed by using the O1 or O2dms interface services, then as a possible step, the network operator could trigger SMO to request the IMS to perform an O-Cloud Node level healing to attempt to fix the problem. In addition, certain events received by SMO about malfunctioning O- Cloud Node resources could indicate or trigger the need to heal those resources, even in the case that such resource is not actually being allocated for running the whole or part of an O-RAN NF. The healing of an O-Cloud Node may be performed via different means. For instance, the O-Cloud Node could be restarted (stop and start the node) or reallocated to use other O-Cloud Resources or O-Cloud Infrastructure resources. This use case describes the procedure to attempt to heal specific O-Cloud Nodes using the O2ims interface services. This procedure can be invoked when some faults are identified that could be resolved by healing O-Cloud Nodes.

#### 3.6.3.2 Sequence description
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use SMO and IMS attempt to fix the failure on O-RAN NF’s responsiveness via O1 Goal interface by requesting the healing of O-Cloud Nodes. Network Operator SMO: FOCOM Actors and Roles IMS O-Cloud Node 1) Notification Event has been configured in the IMS by the SMO Assumptions 2) NF does not respond on O1 3) SMO can be aware of O-Cloud Nodes failures 1) SMO is available Preconditions 2) The O-Cloud has been installed and activated and is known to SMO 3) Network connectivity exists between the O-Cloud and SMO This use case begins when either of the following two situations happens: 1. Work order from the network operator triggers the O-Cloud Node level Begins when healing. The work order can indicate a specific set of O-Cloud Nodes. 2. IMS detects some faults with O-Cloud Node and triggers auto-healing. SMO sends a request to the IMS using O2ims services to heal one or more O- Step 1.1 (ALT) Cloud Nodes. IMS initiates auto-healing Step 1.2 (ALT) If SMO has previously subscribed to the status update of the O-Cloud Node. IMS notifies the start of healing. Step 2 (O)
> NOTE 1: The notification may be sent in both cases before SMO initiated
healing and auto-healing. The IMS performs the healing of the O-Cloud Nodes indicated in the request. Step 3 (M) NOTE 2: Steps 3 and 4 can be looped for each O-Cloud Nodes to heal.
> NOTE 3: NF Deployments running on the O-Cloud Node may need to be healed
in conjunction with the O-Cloud Node healing. NF Deployments are reallocated as needed. Step 4 (O) STATUS UPDATE NOTIFICATION – When the situation requires that an O- Cloud Node status change notification to the SMO is needed, the O-Cloud Node status change notification is returned to the SMO by the IMS. Step 5 (O)
> NOTE 4: The notification may be sent in both cases after SMO initiated healing
and auto-healing. Healing of the O-Cloud Node is completed. Ends when Exceptions None identified. O-Cloud Nodes have been healed. Post Conditions REQ-ORC-O2-13, REQ-ORC-O2-78 Traceability

#### 3.6.3.3 UML sequence diagram

### 3.6.4 O-Cloud Node Backup Use Cases

#### 3.6.4.1 Introduction
The use cases introduced in clause 3.6.4 concern about O-Cloud Node backup. When an O-Cloud Node experiences some failure, the O-Cloud Node can be healed by restarting or reallocating the O- Cloud Node on other O-Cloud Resources, as described in the O-Cloud Node Level Healing Use Case, clause 3.6.3 of the present document. In order to reallocate an O-Cloud Node, information and current state data about the O-Cloud Node is necessary. This is referred in the following as "O-Cloud Node backup". The O-Cloud Node backup might be automatically created by the O-Cloud based on certain policy or configuration. In other cases, O-Cloud Operator might explicitly request to create an O-Cloud Node backup. The following set of use cases describe the procedure to create an O-Cloud Node backup initiated by O-Cloud Operator, SMO, or IMS based on backup criteria. SMO can specify the information to backup within the O-Cloud Node Backup request. The specific items to backup for each O-Cloud Node could differ based on implementation, but in all cases, it needs to contain the necessary items for restoration and rollback. The followings are the examples of information and data to be backed up:
- Running configurations of O-Cloud Node, or
- O-Cloud inventory information (such as its type, capabilities, and resource build configurations, for example, a
reference to the Initiation Configuration Set (ICS) that has been used for O-Cloud Node initialization) as described in O-Cloud Inventory Update Use Case, clause 3.1.4, or
- O-Cloud blueprint of the functionality and resources as described in [REQ-ORC-GEN14].
It is useful to create a backup before update in order to be able to rollback to the original state in case of a failure during the update procedure. In addition to the backup before update, automatic or periodic backup is also useful to restore the latest information in case of unexpected failure of O-Cloud Node. The probable triggers to create an O-Cloud Node Backup are:
- after initialization of new O-Cloud Node,
- before software update on O-Cloud Node for rollback in case of update failure,
- before reconfiguration of O-Cloud Node for fallback in case of problem during reconfiguration,
- on a request from O-Cloud Operator,
- periodical backup timer (done in case of unexpected failure of O-Cloud Node), and
- automatic backup based on backup criteria configured on the IMS.
> NOTE 1: It is not a mandatory procedure to create a backup after O-Cloud Node initialization or before O-Cloud
Node update. SMO can configure the backup criteria on the IMS such as backup target, interval, threshold, and trigger for automatic/periodic backup. O-Cloud Node backup can be initiated by the O-Cloud Operator and SMO. O-Cloud Node backup can be also initiated by IMS based on backup criteria. O-Cloud Operator can query the backup status of O-Cloud Node or backed-up O- Cloud Node information itself by using the O-Cloud Node Backup Query Use Case (see clause 3.6.4.4). In the following, clause 3.6.4.2 describes the O-Cloud Node backup creation initiated by O-Cloud Operator or SMO. Clause 3.6.4.3 describes the backup criteria configuration on the IMS and O-Cloud Node backup creation based on the backup criteria. And finally, clause 3.6.4.4 describes the O-Cloud Node backup query.
> NOTE 2: O-Cloud Node backup request and O-Cloud Node backup criteria configuration by SMO provide the
means to SMO and O-Cloud Operator to control the backup process considering aspects beyond the current status of the O-Cloud, e.g., network wide level management, etc. However, it is also possible that IMS can have pre-configured or perform by design O-Cloud Node backups by itself.
> NOTE 3: The present use case considers only aspects of backup applied to O-Cloud Nodes. However, backup
processes can also be applicable to other O-Cloud components and resources. How the use case could be further evolved or related to other use cases of backing up other O-Cloud components is not handled in the present document version, and it might be considered in future ones to realize a broader concept of O- Cloud Backup.
> NOTE 4: Requirements for these use cases are for further study in future train.

#### 3.6.4.2 O-Cloud Node Backup Creation Use Case

##### 3.6.4.2.1 High Level Description
This use case describes the creation of an O-Cloud Node backup triggered by the O-Cloud Operator or SMO.

##### 3.6.4.2.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Create an O-Cloud Node backup, i.e., a backup of specified information on an Goal existing O-Cloud Node. O-Cloud Operator – The O-Cloud Operator is an entity interfacing with the SMO. SMO: FOCOM – The FOCOM within the SMO is the consumer that will request Actors and Roles the O-Cloud Node backup. IMS – The IMS processes the request of O-Cloud Node backup. IMS supports backup mechanism without affecting related NF deployments Assumptions and consumed O-Cloud resources. 1) SMO is available Pre-conditions 2) The O-Cloud has been installed and activated and is known to SMO 3) Network connectivity exists between the O-Cloud and SMO 4) Privilege - The consumer identification and privileges have been verified to be able to perform O2 operations This use case begins in either of these two cases: Begins when 1. The O-Cloud Operator initiates an O-Cloud Node backup creation request 2. The SMO initiates an O-Cloud Node backup creation request BACKUP CREATION INITIATED BY OPERATOR – An O-Cloud Node backup Step 1.1 (ALT) creation request is initiated from the O-Cloud Operator towards SMO. O-Cloud Operator can specify the information to backup. BACKUP CREATION INITIATED BY SMO – An O-Cloud Node backup creation Step 1.2 (ALT) is initiated by the SMO. BACKUP CREATION REQUEST - The O-Cloud Node backup creation request Step 2 (M) is composed by the SMO and sent to the IMS. IMS PROCESSES BACKUP CREATION REQUEST - The IMS processes the backup creation request. The IMS creates a backup of the requested O-Cloud Step 3 (M) Node information. BACKUP SUCCESS – The backup creation was successfully performed by the IMS without any issues. A success response is returned to the SMO by the Step 4.1 (ALT) IMS. The response can include information about the backup that has been performed, such as time of backup, backed-up version, etc. EXCEPTION: UNEXPECTED CONDITION – The IMS might not be able to Step 4.2 (ALT) comply to the request. A response is sent from the IMS to the SMO. BACKUP CREATION RESPONSE – If the backup creation request has been initiated by the O-Cloud Operator, a backup creation response is sent back to Step 5 (M) the requesting entity. The response can include information about the backup that has been performed, such as time of backup, backed-up version, etc. The O-Cloud Node backup has been created successfully or when IMS Ends when encounters an unexpected condition. IMS was unable to create a backup of the O-Cloud Node due to unexpected Exceptions conditions. SUCCESS: The O-Cloud Node backup is created and a response to the backup Post-conditions creation request is sent to the requesting entity. FAILURE: The exception response has been sent to the requesting entity. Traceability The requirement traceability is not present in this document version.

##### 3.6.4.2.3 UML Sequence Diagram

#### 3.6.4.3 Criteria-Based O-Cloud Node Backup Creation Use Case

##### 3.6.4.3.1 High Level Description
This use case describes the criteria-based backup of O-Cloud Node information, i.e., the IMS triggers the O-Cloud Node backup creation automatically based on some configured backup criteria. It also describes how the SMO can configure the backup criteria on the IMS for automatic or periodic backups. By configuring the backup criteria, SMO can specify the backup target, backup interval/threshold/trigger, and retention period. The backup criteria can also include an endpoint to notify the result of criteria-based backup. Authorization policy for updating the backup criteria can be included in the backup criteria.

##### 3.6.4.3.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Create an O-Cloud Node backup, i.e., backup of specified information on an Goal existing O-Cloud Node, based on configured backup criteria. Actors and Roles O-Cloud Operator – The O-Cloud Operator is an entity interfacing with the SMO. SMO: FOCOM – The FOCOM within the SMO is the entity that will configure the O-Cloud Node backup criteria on the IMS. IMS – The IMS processes the request for configuration of O-Cloud Node backup criteria. It also initiates the O-Cloud Node backup creation based on the backup criteria. IMS supports backup mechanism without affecting related NF deployments and Assumptions consumed O-Cloud resources. 1) SMO is available 2) The O-Cloud has been installed and activated and is known to SMO Preconditions 3) Network connectivity exists between the O-Cloud and SMO 4) Privilege - The consumer identification and privileges have been verified to be able to perform O2 operations This use case begins when the O-Cloud Operator initiates a backup criteria Begins when configuration request. BACKUP CRITERIA CONFIGURATION Steps BACKUP CRITERIA CONFIGURATION REQUEST – An O-Cloud Node backup Step 1 (M) criteria configuration request is initiated from the O-Cloud Operator towards SMO. The request includes backup criteria to be configured on the IMS. BACKUP CRITERIA CONFIGURATION REQUEST – The O-Cloud Node Step 2 (M) backup criteria configuration request is sent from the SMO towards IMS. The request includes backup criteria to be configured on the IMS. IMS PROCESSES BACKUP CRITERIA CONFIGURATION - IMS processes the backup criteria configuration request. The IMS configures the backup criteria for automatic/periodic backup of O-Cloud Node. The backup criteria configuration can either: Step 3 (M)
- be newly set up, e.g., by providing the necessary backup criteria
- be updated, e.g., to update existing backup criteria
The backup criteria can include the backup target, interval, threshold, trigger, retention period, an endpoint to notify about events related to the backup. BACKUP CRITERIA CONFIGURATION SUCCESS – The backup criteria was Step 4.1 (ALT) successfully configured on the IMS without any issues. A success response is returned to the SMO by the IMS. EXCEPTION: UNEXPECTED CONDITION – The IMS might not be able to Step 4.2 (ALT) comply to the request. A response is sent from the IMS to the SMO. BACKUP CRITERIA CONFIGURATION RESPONSE – A backup criteria Step 5 (M) configuration response is sent back to the requesting entity. CRITERIA-BASED BACKUP CREATION Steps BACKUP CREATION TRIGGER BASED ON CRITERIA – IMS triggers an O- Step 6 (M) Cloud Node backup based on configured criteria. IMS CREATE BACKUP - The IMS creates a backup of O-Cloud Node Step 7 (M) information. BACKUP SUCCESS – The backup creation was successfully performed by the IMS without any issues. A notification can be sent from the IMS to the SMO to Step 8.1 (ALT) notify that the new backup of O-Cloud Node has been created based on backup criteria. The notification is mandatory if the backup criteria include an endpoint to notify. EXCEPTION: UNEXPECTED CONDITION – The IMS might not be able to comply to the request. A notification is sent from the IMS to the SMO to notify Step 8.2 (ALT) that the criteria-based O-Cloud Node backup has failed. The notification is mandatory if the backup criteria include an endpoint to notify. O-Cloud Node backup criteria has been configured successfully and O-Cloud Ends when Node backup has been created successfully or when IMS encounters an unexpected condition. (1) IMS was unable to configure backup criteria due to unexpected conditions. Exceptions (2) IMS was unable to create a backup of O-Cloud Node based on backup criteria due to unexpected conditions. SUCCESS: O-Cloud backup criteria is configured and O-Cloud Node backup is Post-conditions created. FAILURE: The exception response has been sent to the SMO. Traceability The requirement traceability is not present in this document version.

##### 3.6.4.3.3 UML Sequence Diagram

#### 3.6.4.4 O-Cloud Node Backup Query Use Case

##### 3.6.4.4.1 High Level Description
This use case concerns the query of O-Cloud Node backup information. O-Cloud Operator can query the backup status of O-Cloud Node (such as time of backup, backed-up version) or backed-up O-Cloud Node information itself (such as backed-up software and status of O-Cloud Node) based on query filtering criteria.

##### 3.6.4.4.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal Query information of one or more O-Cloud Node backups. O-Cloud Operator – The O-Cloud Operator is an entity interfacing with the SMO. SMO: FOCOM – The FOCOM within the SMO is the consumer that will query Actors and Roles the O-Cloud Node backup information. IMS – The IMS processes the request to query information about the O-Cloud Node backup. Assumptions No assumptions. 1) SMO is available 2) The O-Cloud has been installed and activated and is known to SMO Pre conditions 3) Network connectivity exists between the O-Cloud and SMO 4) Privilege - The consumer identification and privileges have been verified to be able to perform O2 operations This use case begins when the O-Cloud Operator initiates an O-Cloud Node Begins when backup query. BACKUP QUERY REQUEST – A request to query backup information is Step 1 (M) initiated from the O-Cloud Operator towards SMO. O-Cloud Operator can declare query filter to indicate the information to query. BACKUP QUERY REQUEST – A request to query backup information is sent Step 2 (M) from the SMO towards IMS. The request can include query filter to indicate the information to query. BACKUP QUERY SUCCESS – The query of backup information is Step 3.1 (ALT) successfully processed by the IMS without any issues. The requested backup information of the O-Cloud Node(s) is returned to the SMO by the IMS. EXCEPTION: UNEXPECTED CONDITION – The IMS might not be able to Step 3.2 (ALT) comply to the request. A response is sent from the IMS to the SMO. BACKUP QUERY RESPONSE – A response about the query of backup Step 4 (M) information is sent back to the requesting entity. The response includes the requested information of the O-Cloud Node backup as specified by the request. O-Cloud Node backup information has been returned to the requesting entity Ends when successfully or when IMS encounters an unexpected condition. IMS was unable to return a target O-Cloud Node backup information due to Exceptions unexpected conditions. SUCCESS: O-Cloud Node backup information has been returned to the Post-conditions requesting entity. FAILURE: The exception response has been sent to the requesting entity. Traceability The requirement traceability is not present in this document version.

##### 3.6.4.4.3 UML Sequence Diagram

## 3.7 Fault Use Cases

### 3.7.1 Alarm Subscription Use Case

#### 3.7.1.1 High Level Description
This Use Case supports IMS Alarm Event Subscription as described in ETSI Sol15 Clause 5.9 [12] as a pattern, 3GPP TS29.501-G50 [13]. An alarm subscription allows for one or more consumers to receive alarm event notifications. This is accomplished by the potential subscriber(s) issuing a subscription to the publisher of alarm events.

#### 3.7.1.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use This use case describes a flow where one or more consumers to receive alarm event notifications can issue a subscription to IMS which publishes alarm events. Goal Each SUBSCRIBER has a consumer subscription identifier. There is one consumer subscription identifier per subscription. It doesn’t have to be unique for that subscription. The consumer subscription identifier is a character string that can be associated with meta-data within the SMO. Alarm Event Subscriber (1..n) [e.g. SMO, could be a Proxy]. Actors and Roles Alarm Event Publisher [e.g., IMS, DMS] There can be multiple subscribers to a single publisher. The subscriber- publisher cardinality is not enforced nor monitored. Each subscription is associated with one subscriber. Each subscription provides information about a single endpoint for receiving alarm related Assumptions notifications. Thus, there cannot be multiple endpoints for sending alarm related notifications from a single subscription. The subscriber may not be the ultimate consumer of notifications. The subscriber is not necessarily the same entity as the endpoint for notifications. Operational Subscriber [1…n], Publisher. Connectivity (Precondition) – The Subscriber has connectivity to the publisher by some mechanism. The mechanism by which the subscriber achieves connectivity to the publisher is out of the scope of this Use Case. Preconditions O-Cloud is installed, operating, and registered with SMO. Privilege – The consumer identification and privileges of an SMO user have been verified to be able to perform O2 operations. The use case is triggered when a subscriber wishes to: (1) NOTIFICATION – A subscriber wishes to be notified of O-Cloud Faults (2) ALARM SUBSCRIPTION CHANGE – To change the characteristics of an alarm subscription a user would need to create a new alarm subscription Begins when followed by deleting the previous alarm subscription. This is done because there is no alarm subscription update procedure. The sequence is recommended to ensure that no alarms are missed during these two independent operations. (3) TRIGGER - An O-Cloud operator may also initiate a subscription. NOTIFICATION CRITERIA – This gives a notification criterion which initiates Step 1 (M) the subscription. SUBSCRIPTION – The subscriber sends an alarm event subscription TO the Step 2 (M) publisher. The subscription includes the Consumer Subscription Identifier CALLBACK NOTIFICATION CHECK (Should) – A Reachability Check can be performed between the subscriber and publisher. This is a connectivity and Step 3 (M) authorization check. This check is optional. However, it is recommended that a reachability check is performed. This step should be performed; though it is stated as optional in ETSI SOL00015. (ALT) REACHABILITY SUCCESS – This step indicates that the reachability Step 4 (M) check has passed successfully. (ALT) REACHABILITY FAILURE – This step indicates that the reachability Step 5 (M) check has failed. (ALT) Subscription Denied (FAILURE) – The IMS has failed the reachability Step 6 (M) check. IMS will proceed to deny the subscription. (ALT) SUBSCRIPTION STATUS (FAILURE) – If the reachability check has Step 7 (M) failed, the subscription status will indicate a failure. The use case will end at this point. This is a return to Step 2. SUBSCRIPTION ACKNOWLEDGE – The published indicates a subscription acknowledge. This essentially indicates a success for the subscription. Step 8 (M) (Optional) The consumer subscription identifier may be passed back in the subscription acknowledge. SUBSCRIPTION STATUS (SUCCESS) – A subscription status will indicate a Step 9 (M) success back to cloud operator. This is a return to Step 1. This use case ends when a subscription status has been sent successfully or Ends when on one of the failure cases, when there was a subscription failure. FAIL CASE 1: FAILURE INDICATION - The Subscription acknowledge indicates a failure. FAIL CASE 2: CONNECTIVITY ISSUE - Can’t reach the publisher. EXCEPTION CASE 1: NON-SEQUITUR FILTER – The specified filter for the subscription has been formulated such that no alarms would ever be sent. For Exceptions example, if a filter specified to give [(all severity = major) and (all severity = not major)] would never return any alarms. ALTERNATE CASE 1: VALIDITY CHECK (Optional) – A validity check confirms the reachability of the callback endpoint, checking that the publisher has permission to reach the consumer through a TLS connection. If a validity check is performed AND it fails, this would lead to Fail Case 2 (Connectivity Issue). (1) The publisher has the subscriber call-back (a fully qualified URL) and it is persisted. Post Conditions (2) The publisher has created its own internal association for subscription which includes the consumer subscription identifier, the call-back URL and filter criteria. REQ-ORC-O2-21, REQ-ORC-O2-22 Traceability

#### 3.7.1.3 UML sequence diagram

### 3.7.2 Alarm Notification Use Case

#### 3.7.2.1 High Level Description
This Use Case supports Alarm Notification(s) by the alarm publisher (IMS). A condition occurs on an O-Cloud resource which causes the current alarm list to change. This triggers an evaluation of the alarm subscription criteria by the publisher (IMS). If deemed relevant by the subscription criteria, the alarm is sent to the subscription endpoint. The alarm is sent in an alarm notification which is an event that carries the details of these relevant alarms. Alarm notifications are sent from a publisher to subscriber(s). See the Alarm subscription use case for more details on Alarm subscriptions. When the fault(s) that caused an alarm has been cleared, the IMS determines which alarm to be cleared, clears the alarm, logs the alarm clearance, and reports it to alarm subscriber (FOCOM).

#### 3.7.2.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use This use case describes the series of actions that occur when a O-Cloud resource encounters a fault that eventually results in an alarm being published by the Alarm Event Publisher (IMS). Goal All faults are logged by the O-Cloud. Note that simple devices may not have the ability to log their faults, hence the O-Cloud would log faults for them. Log management is an area of LCM/FCAPS. O-Cloud Resource – This is a resource in the O-Cloud that encounters a fault. See WG6 O2 CADS [7] for definition of an O-Cloud Resource. Alarm Event Publisher – The IMS is the owner of the O-Cloud alarms. The IMS raises the Alarm. The IMS may use other internal functions to help Actors and Roles determine whether faults should become alarms. The O-Cloud or O-Cloud resource might remediate a fault obviating the need to raise an alarm. Alarm Event Subscriber (1..n) – This entity has subscribed to the publisher successfully. For the IMS case, it would be the FOCOM. There can be multiple subscribers (SMOs) to a single publisher (IMS). Each subscription is associated with a particular subscriber. You do not get multiple endpoints for multiple consumers of it. The subscriber could be a proxy. Assumptions A fault is an error that the O-Cloud resource detects. All faults should be stored and logged in the O-Cloud resource. An Alarm is a notification to an need to be raised and reported as alarms from the publisher. The subscriber has successfully completed an alarm event subscription (Use Preconditions Case) This use case begins in one of two cases: 1. A fault or fault clearance is detected or reported from an O-Cloud Begins when resource. 2. Alarm has been cleared. FAULT 1 DETECTED – An O-Cloud resource encounters failure #1, or fault Step 1.1 (M) #1 is detected. FAULT 2 DETECTED – That O-Cloud resource also detects another fault: Step 1.2 (M) failure #2, or fault #2. FAULT LOGGED – The O-Cloud resource logs both the faults. Fault #1 and Step 1.3 (M) Fault #2 are logged internally to the resource. ALARM ANALYSIS (OPTIONAL) – The O-Cloud itself remediates faults if possible. For example, the resource or O-Cloud may resolve fault 1. The O- Cloud evaluates what faults should become alarms. For example, it may determine that fault 2 should be raised as an alarm and not fault 1. Analysis Step 2 (O) is done to determine if the fault(s) should become alarms. The O-Cloud or O- Cloud resource might remediate a fault obviating the need to raise an alarm. The O-Cloud implementer decides what O-Cloud resource faults should become alarms. ALARM ENRICHMENT & CORRELATION (OPTIONAL) – Alarm analysis Step 3 (O) might be performed. Alarm correlation might be performed as described in the O2 GA&P [9]. ALARM ESCALATION (OPTIONAL) – Alarm escalation might be performed Step 4 (O) as described in the O2 GA&P [9]. Step 5 (M) ALARM LOGGED – The IMS logs all alarm(s). ALARM FILTERING & PUBLISHING – Alarm Filters are evaluated. If the alarm is not filtered by the subscription criteria, the Alarm is published by the alarm event publisher (IMS) for any subscriber. The Alarm is then reported Step 6 (M) to the FOCOM subscriber. This use case flow illustrates that even though multiple faults were raised on an O-Cloud resource only one alarm was raised in this case. Either success or failure of the alarm notification should be logged. Step 7.1-7.2 FAULT CLEARED AND LOGGED – An O-Cloud resource fault(s) has been (ALT) cleared and the O-Cloud resource logs the fault(s) clearance. ALARM ANALYSIS –The IMS determines which alarm to be cleared by the Step 8 (M) fault clearance. ALARM CORRELATION (OPTIONAL) – Alarm correlation might be Step 9 (O) performed as described in the O2 GA&P [9]. ALARM CLEARANCE BY SMO OR IMS REQUEST – The Alarm is cleared by FOCOM or IMS using the Alarm Acknowledge/Clear Use Case. One of the following sets of steps is used;

### 3.7.7 Alarm
(1) For SMO-initiated Alarm clearance, Step 2 Alarm Clear Request of SMO- ALT Acknowledge/Clear initiated Alarm Clear case in Alarm Acknowledge/Clear Use Case Use Case (2) For IMS-initiated Alarm clearance, Step 1 Autonomously Initiated Alarm Clear of IMS-initiated Alarm Clear case in Alarm Acknowledge/Clear Use Case ALARM CLEARANCE LOGGED – The IMS logs all alarm clearances. Step 10 (M) ALARM CLEARANCE REPORTED – The Alarm clearance is published by Step 11 (ALT) the alarm event publisher (IMS) for any subscriber. The Alarm clearance is then reported to the FOCOM subscriber. EXCEPTION: UNEXPECTED CONDITION – The IMS might not be able to ALT process the Alarm Clearance Notification operation. No notification to the SMO is possible for the failure case. This use case ends when the Alarm Notification has been sent, or on one of Ends when the error cases. (Alt 1) – Faults are filtered by the O-Cloud. For example, fault 1 has been resolved/filtered, and only fault 2 is reported. Exceptions (Alt 2) – IMS filters on what should be reported, and in this example, alarm 2 passed the filter so it is reported. Post Conditions Alarms that pass filters are published to subscribers with a valid subscription. REQ-ORC-O2-16 Traceability

#### 3.7.2.3 UML sequence diagram

### 3.7.3 Alarm Query Use Case

#### 3.7.3.1 High Level Description
This Use Case supports Alarm Query (Alarm History) for O2ims. Alarm query allows for the SMO to query for specific kinds of alarms or groups of alarms based on the alarm query criteria. This is useful for an operator to investigate, track, or debug a system.

#### 3.7.3.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use This Use Case describes the query for alarm(s) from resources. The SMO queries for specific kinds of alarms or groups of alarms through query criteria. Alarms are managed by the O-Cloud and this use case allows a user (SMO) to request for a set of alarms based on the query criteria. The alarm query criteria specify the alarm characteristics which are to be matched by IMS alarms to be returned as an alarm query results. In the IMS case, A fault query is a message which is expecting a response Goal message from the IMS which matches the query criteria. FOCOM (SMO) queries the IMS for alarms over O2ims. Alarm queries within certain periods of time can be used for reconciliation. Combinations of alarm queries can be used for analysis. An “alarm status” for all the O-Cloud resources can be accomplished by an alarm query with a criterion of “all O-Cloud resources” and “all alarms” (on those resources). SMO – The FOCOM within the SMO is used in this use case to represent any consumer of the query service. Actors and Roles IMS – The IMS within the O-Cloud is used to represent any provider of the query service. The NFO (SMO) can query for alarms WITHOUT an alarm subscription to the IMS. Assumptions There is no relationship between an alarm subscription’s filter criteria and an alarm query’s criteria. SMO has connectivity to IMS/DMS. Preconditions Privilege – The consumer identification and privileges of an SMO user have been verified to be able to perform O2 operations. This use case begins when the cloud operator at the SMO (subscriber) initiates Begins when an Alarm Query. (Alt) ALARM QUERY INITIATED FROM OPERATOR – An alarm query is Step 1.1 (O) initiated from the Operator to the FOCOM with query criteria that specifies what type of alarms the operator is interested in. (Alt) ALARM QUERY INITIATED FROM SMO – An alarm query may also be Step 1.2 (O) initiated from the FOCOM (SMO) with query criteria that specifies what type of alarms to retrieve from the IMS. ALARM QUERY FROM FOCOM TO IMS – An alarm query is processed by the Step 2 (M) FOCOM (SMO) towards the IMS in the O-Cloud with the alarm query criteria. (ALT) SUCCESSFUL ALARM RESPONSE – The response is returned in response for the Alarm Query with alarm content matching the alarm query criteria.
> NOTE 1: An alarm query on an O-Cloud resource with no alarms will return a
Step 3 (M) successful alarm response with a null set of alarms.
> NOTE 2: To get historical alarms the cloud operator would just perform an
alarm query with the appropriate criteria. For example, an alarm query with the criteria to request for all alarms with cleared status would return historical alarms based on the retention policy of the alarm list. (ALT) ALARM OBJECT NOT FOUND – This is an alt step. This is an exception case for the Alarm Query basic case. In this situation, the alarm that Step 4 (M) was to be queried was not found. A “alarm not found” response is sent to the subscriber. For example, an alarm query was performed on a non-existent O- Cloud resource. (ALT) ALARM NO CONTENT – This is an alt step. This is an exception case for the Alarm Query basic case. In this situation, the query parameters returned no Step 5 (M) content (an empty set). A “no content” response is sent to the subscriber. For example, if the given criteria [(all severity = major) and (all severity = not major)] would never return any alarms. (ALT) ALARM OTHER QUERY FAILURE – This is an alt step. This exception Step 6 (M) case occurs when the Alarm Query encounters a problem that is not defined as part of this scenario. This scenario ends at any of the ALT cases, or with a successful Alarm Query Ends when response. This use case can encounter three basic alternate cases. OBJECT NOT FOUND - The first an alarm query is attempted on a non- existent O-Cloud resource. Exceptions NO CONTENT - The second alternate case is a “No Content” case where the Query parameters return an empty set. OTHER QUERY FAILURE – A problem occurs that is not defined as part of this use case. Post Conditions Alarms are returned matching the criteria in the query have been returned REQ-ORC-O2-17, REQ-ORC-O2-18 Traceability

#### 3.7.3.3 UML sequence diagram

### 3.7.4 IMS Alarm Subscription Query Use Case

#### 3.7.4.1 High Level Description
This use case is about the Management of Alarm Subscriptions; in particular, the query service operation. The create and delete of an Alarm Subscription is documented in separate use cases. This use case only concerns the query of an Alarm Subscription. Query (cf. query-response) and Read (cf. CRUD operations) are synonymous in this situation. The query of an Alarm Subscription is the ability of an authorized entity to get the details of an Alarm Subscription including its criteria. An entity here would usually be the SMO or O-Cloud Operator; however, it could also be another authorized user/technician, or authorized management function. Typically, an entity would perform a subscription query to cross-check their alarm subscription. Though, it could also be utilized for management purposes as well.

#### 3.7.4.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use An entity (typically the SMO), desires to query the Alarm Subscription(s) from the IMS. Hence, this use case will describe the query of Alarm Subscription(s). Query (cf. query-response) and Read (cf. CRUD operations) are synonymous in this situation.
> NOTE 1: An entity may be any authorized user or authorized management
function. Goal
> NOTE 2: This use case is one in a series of use cases related to alarm
subscription management (CRD operations). The create and delete Alarm Subscription operations are described in other use cases.
> NOTE 3: The IMS could have more than one alarm subscription. This use case
covers the query of one or multiple alarm subscription(s). O-Cloud Operator – The O-Cloud operator is a user that is interested in getting alarm subscription query results. SMO (FOCOM) – The FOCOM within the SMO is used in this use case to Actors and Roles represent any consumer of the alarm subscription query service. IMS – The IMS within the O-Cloud is used to represent any provider of the alarm subscription status query service. There are no assumptions. Assumptions Connectivity – The Subscriber has connectivity to the publisher by some mechanism. The mechanism by which the subscriber achieves connectivity to the publisher is out of the scope of this Use Case. O-Cloud Operational – The O-Cloud is installed, operating, and registered with Preconditions the SMO. Privilege – The consumer identification and privileges of a SMO user have been verified to be able to perform O2 operations. QUERY SUBSCRIPTION – The use case begins when an operator at the Begins when SMO wishes to query the alarm subscription(s). QUERY ALARM SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST – The O-Cloud operator initiates Step 1 (M) a query for alarm subscription(s) with query criteria. QUERY ALARM SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST – The query subscriber subscription request is issued from FOCOM (SMO) to the publisher (IMS) with query criteria. Step 2 (M)
> NOTE 4: The query criteria could include the Consumer Subscription
Identifier(s). SUCCESSFUL ALARM SUBSCRIPTION QUERY – A connection authentication is verified by the publisher (IMS). This is a standard type of check and a standard response would be issued in this case. The query Step 3 (ALT) request operation is processed by the publisher. If the query request results in alarm subscription(s) matching the query criteria, then a success response is sent to FOCOM (SMO). EXCEPTION: QUERY OF NON-EXISTING ALARM SUBSCRIPTION – If the query operation results in no alarm subscription that matches the query criteria, then an alarm subscription not found is issued back to the requestor. Step 4 (ALT) For example, if a consumer subscription identifier does not match any alarm subscription, this exception would be encountered. EXCEPTION: Unexpected Condition – The IMS might not be able to comply to the request. There might have been a software issue trying to process the Step 5 (ALT) alarm subscription query request. QUERY ALARM SUBSCRIPTION RESPONSE – The result of the Alarm Subscription Query is communicated from FOCOM back to O-Cloud operator. Step 6 (M) This is a return/response for Step 1. This Use Case ends under two cases: EXCEPTION CASE – The use case ends when there an exception case is encountered. For example, when a requestor tries to perform a query Ends when operation on a non-existent alarm subscription. QUERY OPERATION SUCCEEDS – The use case will end if the query operation of alarm subscription successfully completed. EXCEPTION CASE: NON-EXISTENT SUBSCRIPTION – The query operation requesting a non-existent alarm subscription. Exceptions EXCEPTION CASE: Unexpected Condition – The IMS might not be able to comply to the alarm subscription query request. In this case, the unexpected condition exception is encountered. SUCCESS: The alarm subscription has been returned to the requestor (O- Cloud operator) Post-conditions FAILURE: An exception notification of a non-existent subscription has been issued. REQ-ORC-O2-21, REQ-ORC-O2-22, REQ-ORC-O2-15 Traceability

#### 3.7.4.3 UML Sequence Diagram

### 3.7.5 IMS Alarm Subscription Delete Use Case

#### 3.7.5.1 High Level Description
This use case is about the Management of Alarm Subscriptions; in particular, the delete service operation. The create and query of an Alarm Subscription is documented in separate use cases. This use case only concerns the delete of an Alarm Subscription. The delete of an Alarm Subscription is the ability of an authorized entity to delete an Alarm Subscription at the IMS. It is also possible to delete all alarm subscriptions associated with the consumer subscription identifier. An entity here would usually be the SMO; however, it could also be another authorized user/technician, or authorized management function. There is no update operation for an Alarm Subscription. To accomplish an update, an entity would need to first delete a subscription and then create a subscription with the desired subscription criteria. Any subscription operations that change a subscription shall be logged. Therefore, the delete and create of an alarm subscription shall also be logged. The logging occurs at the O-Cloud IMS.

#### 3.7.5.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use An entity (typically the SMO), desires to delete an Alarm Subscription in the IMS. Hence, this use case will describe the delete of an Alarm Subscription.
> NOTE 1: An entity may be any authorized user or authorized management
function). Goal
> NOTE 2: This use case is one in a series of use cases related to alarm
subscription management (CRD operations). The Alarm Subscription Create and Alarm Subscription Query operations are described in other sister use cases. O-Cloud Operator – The O-Cloud operator is a user that is interested in deleting an alarm subscription. SMO (FOCOM) – The FOCOM within the SMO is used in this use case to Actors and Roles represent any entity interested in deleting an alarm subscription. IMS – The IMS within the O-Cloud is used to represent any owner of the alarm subscription. The entity that owns the alarm subscription owns the security associated with Assumptions the alarm subscription. This would be FFS to resolve. Connectivity – The IMS and FOCOM has connectivity to each other. O-Cloud Operational – The O-Cloud is installed, operating, and registered with the SMO. Preconditions Privilege - The SMO user identification and privileges have been verified to access the delete alarm subscription API. The use case begins when an operator at the SMO wishes to delete an Begins when existing subscription Delete Alarm Subscription Request – A request to delete an alarm subscription(s) is initiated by an authorized entity towards the FOCOM. Step 1 (M)
> NOTE 3: The request may also delete all alarm subscriptions associated with
the consumer subscription identifier. Delete Alarm Subscription Request – A request to delete an alarm subscription(s) is processed by the FOCOM. Privileges are verified. Then, if Step 2 (M) allowed, FOCOM initiates a request towards the IMS. EXCEPTION: Alarm Subscription Not Found – Alarm subscriptions are searched to see if it exists at the IMS. If they do not exist, then the IMS Step 3 (ALT) responds with an alarm subscription not found. Alarm Subscription Not Found – An alarm subscription not found is returned to Step 4 (M) the requestor by the SMO. In this situation, the Use case ends. EXCEPTION: Privilege Not Found – The IMS verifies that the requestor has the privilege to delete the alarm subscription. If privilege check fails, then the IMS responds with an unauthorized request.
> NOTE 4: The details about how the IMS verifies that the user has the
authentication (privilege) to delete an alarm subscription is FFS. Step 5 (ALT)
> NOTE 5: The Alarm Subscription identifier is an identifier associated with the
Alarm Subscription which is created and associated by the IMS. Additionally, an Alarm Subscription also has a Consumer Subscription Identifier which is the owner of that Alarm Subscription. See the Alarm Subscription Use Case to see how these are used. EXCEPTION: Privilege Not Found – The SMO sends an unauthorized request Step 6 (M) is returned to the requestor. In this situation, the Use case ends. EXCEPTION: Unexpected Condition – The IMS might not be able to comply to the request. There might have been a software issue trying to process the Step 7 (ALT) alarm subscription query request. The IMS informs the SMO of the response. EXCEPTION: Unexpected Condition – A response is sent to the requesting entity from the SMO, that the IMS encountered an unexpected condition Step 8 (M) processing the request. The Use Case ends. Delete Subscription Success – The IMS processes the delete alarm Step 9 (ALT) subscription operation. A response is sent from the IMS to the SMO. Delete Alarm Subscription Response – The delete alarm subscription Step 10 (M) response is sent to the requestor. The Use Case Ends when either an alarm subscription deletion has successfully been accomplished or one of the three alt & exception cases Ends when have been encountered. Alarm Subscription Not Found – If the requested alarm subscription to be deleted is not found, this alt case is encountered. Privilege Not Found – If the requestor does not have the proper privilege to Exceptions delete the alarm subscription this exception is encountered. Unexpected Condition – The IMS might not be able to comply to the request. SUCCESS: The requested alarm subscription to be deleted has been removed at the IMS. Post-conditions FAILURE: The request was not able to be completed, and either the alarm subscription was not deleted, or it never existed in the first place. REQ-ORC-O2-23, REQ-ORC-O2-24, REQ-ORC-O2-15 Traceability

#### 3.7.5.3 UML Sequence Diagram

### 3.7.6 Alarm Synchronization Use Case

#### 3.7.6.1 High Level Description
This use case is for Alarm Synchronization. This is a special case, though commonly employed situation, for Alarm Query. Alarm Synchronization is an Alarm Query on all the alarms of interest. Synchronization is just an alarm query operation with a specific query for all alarm changes within a specific time frame. The Alarm Synchronization result is the same as a “Get Alarm List” with the entire list requested. Alarm synchronization may be performed on demand left up to the consumer when to issue the operation. One example of where alarm synchronization would be used is a situation where the communication link between the client (such as the SMO) and source of truth (such as the O-Cloud) might become disconnected or disrupted. In this case, the client will want to synchronize with the source of truth after a connect is re-established. A situation might arise such that during the time of disconnection between the O-Cloud and the management layer (FOCOM/SMO), an alarm appeared and was cleared. From the Alarm Query Use case: to get historical alarms, the cloud operator would just perform an alarm query with the appropriate criteria. For example, an alarm query with the criteria to request for all alarms with cleared status would return the historical alarms based on the retention policy of the alarm list. Thus, to perform an Alarm Synchronization for alarm with a long communication outage time an operator could perform this type of operation to synchronize historical alarm lists as well.

#### 3.7.6.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use There are many potential situations where a client and source of truth might become disconnected or disrupted. In this case, the client will need to synchronize with the source of truth after it is able to reconnect. The Alarm synchronization is a Query on all the active alarms or all alarms of interest. Goal For example, network fault might prevent communication between the FOCOM/SMO (client), IMS and the O-Cloud infrastructure resources. By the time connectivity has been restored, many new alarm conditions might have arisen and logged. This would motivate the FOCOM/SMO to resynchronize to get the current alarms again. A variety of mechanisms might be used to trigger alarm resynchronization. It might also trigger an upload of the most recent alarm logs. O-Cloud Operator – A Cloud Service Provider (CSP) or entity using the SMO. FOCOM/SMO – The FOCOM within the SMO is used in this use case to Actors and Roles represent any consumer of the alarm notification service. IMS – The IMS in the O-Cloud is the publisher Each subscription is associated with a particular subscriber. You do not get multiple endpoints for multiple consumers of it. Furthermore, the subscriber could be a proxy. Assumptions
> NOTE 1: As per the GA&P basic concepts, the O-Cloud is the source of truth
for the alarms. CONNECTIVITY: SMO has connectivity to IMS in O-Cloud. Preconditions SUBSCRIPTION: The subscription Use Case has been successfully executed resulting in the subscriber having a subscription to IMS alarm notifications.
> NOTE 2: there might have previously been a network disruption between the
SMO and IMS, but that connection has been restored. Privilege – The consumer identification and privileges of an SMO user have been verified to be able to perform O2 operations. This use case begins when in one of three cases: 1. When the cloud operator at the SMO (subscriber) initiates an Alarm Synchronization operation. Begins when 2. When the SMO initiates an alarm synchronization. Or when the IMS has determined that an alarm synchronization should be performed. ALARM QUERY – An alarm synchronization request is initiated from the O- Cloud Operator towards SMO. The alarm synchronization operation is a query Step 1.1 (ALT) for all alarms of interest. ALARM QUERY – An automatically initiated alarm synchronization from the SMO (FOCOM) towards IMS. Some service in the SMO would trigger this Step 1.2 (ALT) operation. The alarm synchronization operation is a query for all alarms of interest. ALARM QUERY – Steps 2-6 of the alarm Query Use Case are performed with a filter of “return all alarms of interest”. (See the Alarm Query Use Case for more details). (REF) The Alarm Query occurs FROM the FOCOM (SMO) TOWARDS the IMS. CORRELATE DATA – The response from the IMS is received by the SMO. The SMO performs a correlation between the alarm data that it has with the Step 2 (M) alarm data it received from the IMS to identify and resolve discrepancies. IMS Initiated alarm synchronization IMS INITIATE SYNCHRONIZATION – An automatically initiated request to perform an alarm synchronization operation is generated from the IMS Step 3 (M) towards the SMO (FOCOM). Some condition or service in the IMS has determined that an alarm synchronization should be performed. ALARM QUERY – Steps 2-6 of the alarm Query Use Case are performed with a filter of “return all alarms of interest”. (See the Alarm Query Use Case for more details). (REF) The Alarm Query occurs FROM the FOCOM (SMO) TOWARDS the IMS. CORRELATE DATA – The response from the IMS is received by the SMO. The SMO performs a correlation between the alarm data that it has with the Step 4 (M) alarm data it received from the IMS to identify and resolve discrepancies. This use Case ends when an exception case is encountered, or the alarm query has been successfully performed. Ends when No new end conditions come with this use case. See the Alarm Query Use Case for more details on the exception cases. Typically, when an alarm synchronization is performed, it will perform a query on all the alarms of interest. The “object not found” and “alarm no content” are exceptions that would not be Exceptions expected to be encountered performing this use case. The only exception might be “ALARM OTHER QUERY FAILURE”. It might be possible that these other exceptions might be encountered in rare circumstances. See the Alarm Query Use Case for more details. SUCCESS: Alarms are returned matching the criteria in the query have been Post-conditions returned. In this case, all alarms of interest have been received. FAILURE: An exception has been encountered and the use case ends with an exception response. REQ-ORC-O2-25, REQ-ORC-O2-26 Traceability

#### 3.7.6.3 UML Sequence Diagram

### 3.7.7 Alarm Acknowledge/Clear Use Case

#### 3.7.7.1 High Level Description
This Use Case relates to Alarm Supervision. It is expected that some O-Cloud infrastructure resources can experience alarm conditions that need to be managed or cleared. This use case is used for a management entity to acknowledge or request for alarm(s) to be cleared. It is also used for the IMS to clear alarm(s) autonomously. It is expected that some resources could have some alarms that can be manually cleared while other alarms would be automatically cleared. Acknowledgement of alarms means that a resource type has defined alarms that may require further human intervention; and that the acknowledge function allows an entity to recognize that the condition exists, and that further action might need to be taken. Some alarms, based on the resource type, may have alarms that can be manually cleared after they have been raised.

#### 3.7.7.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use This use case related to alarm acknowledge and alarm clear. Alarms can either be automatically or manually cleared. This use case deals with clearing of O-Cloud alarms manually by a managing Goal entity. Acknowledge alarms allows for the IMS to track a state change related to an alarm condition that requires acknowledgement. O-Cloud Operator – A Cloud Service Provider (CSP) or entity using the SMO. FOCOM (SMO) – The FOCOM within the SMO is used in this use case to Actors and Roles represent any consumer of the alarm notification service. IMS – The IMS in the O-Cloud is the publisher. The source of truth for the alarm request to be acknowledged or cleared.

### 3.7.1 Alarm
The SMO is subscribed to notifications from the IMS related to fault Assumptions Subscription management such as clear alarm notifications. Use Case Connectivity – SMO has connectivity to IMS in O-Cloud. Registered – O-Cloud has registered its IMS with the SMO. Preconditions Privilege – The consumer identification & privileges of an SMO user has been verified to be able to perform O2 operations. This use case begins when in one of two cases: Begins when 1. The O-Cloud operator initiates an alarm acknowledge / clear request. 2. The FOCOM (SMO) initiates an alarm acknowledge / clear request. Operator/SMO-INITIATED ALARM ACKNOWLEDGE/CLEAR Steps ALARM ACKNOWLEDGE/CLEAR INITIATED – An alarm acknowledge/clear request is initiated from the O-Cloud Operator towards FOCOM (SMO). The Step 1.1 (ALT) alarm acknowledge/clear operation will request for one or more alarm(s) that are present at the O-Cloud Operator to be either acknowledged or cleared.
> NOTE 1: Either Step 1.1 or Step 1.2 is performed.
ALARM ACKNOWLEDGE/CLEAR INITIATED – An alarm acknowledge/clear request is initiated by the FOCOM (SMO) to the IMS. The alarm Step 1.2 (ALT) acknowledge/clear operation will request for one or more alarm(s) that are present at the FOCOM to be either acknowledged or cleared.
> NOTE 2: Either Step 1.1 or Step 1.2 is performed.
ALARM ACKNOWLEDGE/CLEAR REQUEST – An alarm acknowledge/clear Step 2 (M) request is composed and sent to the IMS. IMS PERFORMS ALARM ACKNOWLEDGE/CLEAR – The IMS performs the Step 3 (M) alarm acknowledge/clear on the O-Cloud alarms. The IMS is the manager of O-Cloud alarms. ALARM ACKNOWLEDGE/CLEAR SUCCESS – The alarm acknowledge/clear operation was successfully performed by the IMS without any issues. A success response is returned to the FOCOM by the IMS. Step 4 (ALT) For an alarm clear success – the IMS has cleared the alarm. For an alarm acknowledge success – the IMS has registered the acknowledgement of the alarm; but the alarm remains present. EXCEPTION: ALARM NOT FOUND – If the alarm acknowledge/clear operation was requested on an alarm that does not exist at the IMS, then an alarm not found is returned to FOCOM. Step 5 (ALT) NOTE 3: This means that the FOCOM or O-Cloud Operator has the alarm present, but a mismatch has occurred between them and the IMS. In this case, an Alarm Synchronization operation might be appropriate. It might also require additional human intervention to rectify the problem. EXCEPTION: UNEXPECTED CONDITION– The IMS might not be able to comply to the request, or there is an issue with the IMS interworking with the O-Cloud resource such that it is not able to perform the alarm/events acknowledge/clear operation. A response is sent from the IMS to the SMO.
> NOTE 4: It is expected that the IMS will clear its alarm. Subsequently, it will try
Step 6 (ALT) to clear the fault associated with the alarm on the actual O-Cloud resource. If that operation fails, an unexpected condition will result.
> NOTE 5: The implementation should as far as possible, try to give a response
to indicate if it is necessary to acknowledge / clear the alarm again, and what state the resource would be left in. ALARM ACKNOWLEDGE/CLEAR STATUS RESPONSE – An alarm Step 7 (O) acknowledge/clear status response is sent back to the requesting entity. The Use Case ends. ALARM ACKNOWLEDGE/CLEAR NOTIFICATION – After alarm 3.7.2 Alarm Step 8 (O) acknowledge/clear, an alarm acknowledge/clear notification may be sent to Notification Use the FOCOM by the IMS using the Alarm Notification Use Case. Case IMS-INITIATED ALARM CLEAR Steps Step 1 (M) ALARM CLEAR INITIATED – An alarm clear is initiated by the IMS. ALARM CLEAR NOTIFICATION – The alarm clear operation was successfully 3.7.2 Alarm ALT performed by the IMS without any issues. An alarm clear notification is sent to Notification Use the FOCOM by the IMS using the Alarm Notification Use Case. Case EXCEPTION: UNEXPECTED CONDITION – The IMS might not be able to ALT process the Alarm Clear operation. No notification to the SMO is possible for the failure case. This use case ends if the Alarm is not found, or the IMS encounters an unexpected condition, or a successful alarm acknowledge/clear has been Ends when performed and Alarm Acknowledge / Clear Notification is sent to the FOCOM by the IMS. ALARM NOT FOUND – if the request alarm(s) to be acknowledge/clear are not present at the IMS, this exception is encountered. Exceptions UNEXPECTED CONDITION – If the IMS was unable to perform the alarm acknowledge/clear operation, this exception is encountered. SUCCESS:(1) Response to the Alarm Acknowledge & Clear request is sent to the requesting entity (2) (clear) The alarm(s) at the O-Cloud have been cleared. (3) (acknowledge) The alarm(s) at the O-Cloud have been acknowledge. (4) Alarm Acknowledge / Clear Notification is sent to the Post-conditions FOCOM. FAILURE:(1) One of the exception responses has been sent to the requesting entity (see above). (2) Depending on the exception, the alarm may still exist at the O-Cloud/IMS. Traceability REQ-ORC-O2-27, REQ-ORC-O2-28, REQ-ORC-O2-29, REQ-ORC-O2-30

#### 3.7.7.3 UML Sequence Diagram

### 3.7.8 Log Query

#### 3.7.8.1 High Level Description
This use case describes log query. Logs could be queried by the SMO to the IMS via O2. A user, application, or entity can query for logs that are available in the Cloud: both O-Cloud (exposed /IMS) and Cloud Infrastructure. Any log kept in the Cloud infrastructure might be queried through a user interface client or file transfer client such as CLI, SSH2, SFTP; this would be implementation specific. There are three basic kinds of logs that might be kept within the Cloud (both exposed O-Cloud and Cloud infrastructure): ALARM LOGS – Alarm logs are a record of the alarms that have been raised by the IMS. The IMS keeps and produces an Alarm Log. It is expected that the IMS logs every alarm that it sends to the FOCOM (SMO). Faults are transformed into Alarms by the IMS. Alarm Logs are exposed in an O-Cloud to northbound entities. FAULT LOGS – Faults are kept in the Cloud infrastructure. Faults are raised by a Cloud Infrastructure Resource. Faults are transformed into alarms by the IMS. Thus, not every fault is an alarm. Not all faults are necessarily logged, and the Cloud Infrastructure Resource may keep fault log(s). The creation and operation of Fault Logs is up to implementation. Disclaimer: some implementations could combine Fault and Debug logs together. Fault logs are not necessarily exposed to northbound entities. DEBUG LOGS – The creation and operation of Debug Logs is up to implementation. They might be able to be turned off. The log level would typically be configurable (at the source, middle, and end user level). For example, a typical implementation may use syslog (defined in RFC5424 [21]) which defines a “log level” to show informational (most detail), trace, warnings, errors, to critical (least detail) messages. Disclaimer: some implementations could combine Fault logs and Debug logs together. Debug logs are not necessarily exposed to northbound entities. OTHER LOGS – There may be other logs besides Alarm, Fault and Debug logs that might be kept in the O-Cloud. This would be left to implementation. The conclusion of this use case may provide either:  Pull Case – A consumer retrieve the log(s) after being given an endpoint, or  Push Case – The producer gives a consumer log(s) that match input criteria. Because this is left to implementation, this use case will address both types as alternate flows. For example, an endpoint might be an IP address, where a user, application, or entity could then use a file transfer client to get logs from. When it is an endpoint, it can have data related to the endpoint not just an IP address.
> NOTE: the SMO will likely need to be able to inter-operate with different and sometimes legacy IMS
implementations. It is expected that the SMO would need to be able to support both paradigms: one where the IMS returns Log Files from a Log Query request and another where the IMS returns an endpoint and then for the SMO to later fetch Log Files.

#### 3.7.8.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> USE CASE EVOLUTION / SPECIFICATION STAGE Related Use Use Case Title Log Query Use Case This use case deals with the query of the Logs kept in the O-Cloud. This use case has three basic goals: 1. RETRIEVE LOGS – It allows an entity to query for logs based on the request query filter. For example, you could ask for all the alarms and faults in the O-Cloud or ask for all the faults within a certain timeframe, or query for log entries that are occurring frequently. This use case concerns the retrieval and reading of logs within the O-Cloud that are present and Goal managed by the IMS. 2. SYSTEM PROBING – To emulate a “get status” an operator or entity could query for logged faults and alarms that have not been cleared. 3. ASSISTING INVESTIGATIONS – Logs are typically used to assist in investigations. (NOTE 1) The IMS may store Faults and Debug Logs, however this would be implementation specific. (NOTE 2) O-Cloud Operator – A Cloud Service Provider (CSP) or entity using the SMO. FOCOM (SMO) – The FOCOM within the SMO is used in this use case to represent Actors and Roles any consumer of Logs in the O-Cloud. IMS – The IMS in the O-Cloud creates Logs. (NOTE 3) All faults are logged by the O-Cloud. Note that simple devices may not have the ability to log their faults, hence the O-Cloud would log faults for them. Log events have a severity and source associated with them. Assumptions Logs are not kept indefinitely. Logs will be retained based on the configurable retention period attribute. Also, an expiry method attribute allows for an implementation to communicate how log rotation can be handled; however, implementation specific rotation would also be supported. Connectivity – SMO has connectivity to IMS in O-Cloud. Registered – O-Cloud has registered its IMS with the SMO. Preconditions Privilege – The consumer identification & privileges of an SMO user has been verified to be able to perform O2 operations. This use case begins when an entity, typically an O-Cloud operator, wishes to get a Begins when log, get a status from logs, or start an investigation that involves logs. LOG QUERY REQUEST – The Log Query Request comes from the O-Cloud Operator to the SMO (FOCOM). Step 1 (M) The Log Query Request contains filters that indicate the logs the consumer is interested in. For example, these filters may include the date (ranges), types of logs, types of events, log level (severity), and device(s)/resource(s) or types of resources. LOG QUERY REQUEST – The Log Query Request goes from the SMO (FOCOM) to the IMS in the O-Cloud to be processed. Step 2 (M) The connection authentication is verified. The Log Query request matching the request filter is processed by the IMS. There are two sets of alternate steps: Alt 1 – steps 3.1, 3.2, and 3.3. This describes a Log Query that returns Log files. Alt 2 – steps 4.1, 4.2, and 4.3. This describes a Log Query that just returns an endpoint for a requesting entity to then retrieve files later. Only one of the Alt series of steps will be used in any given cloud implementation. They are both equivalently viable options. REQUESTED LOG FILES RETURNED – Step 3.1 (ALT) This is a successful case, where the Log Query request results in the return of Log files that match the request filter. (NOTE 4) EXCEPTION: NON-EXISTENT LOGS – This exception occurs when the Log Query filter results in no data. An object not Step 3.2 (ALT) found is returned. For example, as from the Step 3.1 example, a request for Logs on the 4th day where there was no log data would result in a non-existent logs exception. (NOTE 5) EXCEPTION: NO CONTENT – In this exception, the evaluation of the Log Query filter returned no content (an empty Step 3.3 (ALT) set). A “no content” response is sent to the subscriber. For example, a filter which asks for all logs within the last 7 days, and all logs not within the last 7 days would be a null request. EXCEPTION: FILE UNAVAILABLE FOR IMS PARSING – In this exception the Log Files exist, however, the records are not available for IMS parsing or retrieval. This might happen because the Log File is not under the management of the IMS. Step 3.4 (ALT) For example, the log(s) might be in a remote location or in an unknown format. In the former case, a consumer could get an endpoint in order to retrieve the log(s) of interest. In the latter case it would be left to a consumer how to interpret the log(s) of interest. END POINT RETURNED – Step 4.1 (ALT) This is a successful case, where the Log Query request results in an endpoint being returned, where an entity can then later retrieve the Log files that match the request filter. FILE RETRIEVAL The consumer, after successfully getting an endpoint from the producer, can then Step 4.2 (ALT) later retrieve the Log file(s) matching the request filter. The specific method by which the consumer obtains the Log file(s) is left up to implementation. (NOTE 6) EXCEPTION: ENDPOINT UNREACHABLE Step 4.3 (ALT) This exception occurs when the consumer attempts to reach the endpoint (in Step 4.2), however, it is unable to reach the provided endpoint from Step 4.1. (NOTE 7) EXCEPTION: NON-EXISTENT LOGS – This exception occurs when the Log Query filter results in no data (no files). An Step 4.4 (ALT) object not found is returned. The use case ends with this failure case. EXCEPTION: NO CONTENT – In this exception, the evaluation of the Log Query filter returned no content (an empty set). A “no content” response is sent to the consumer. Step 4.5 (ALT) For example, a filter which asks for all logs within the last 7 days, and all logs not within the last 7 days would be a null request. The use case ends with this failure case. QUERY STATUS RESPONSE - A query status response is sent back to the Step 5 (M) requesting entity. This scenario ends when any of the exception cases are encountered, or with one of Ends when the two successful Log Query responses (Step 3.1 or Step 4.1). This use case can encounter four exception (alternate) cases that apply to each of Exceptions the two sets of Log Query paradigms: EXCEPTION: NON-EXISTENT LOGS – The first exception is a Log Query request that results in a non-existent log. In this case, an object not found is returned and the use case ends. EXCEPTION: NO CONTENT – The second type of exception case is a “No Content” case, where the Log Query filter returns an empty set. The use case ends with this failure case. EXCEPTION: ENDPOINT UNREACHABLE – This exception occurs when the consumer attempts to reach the endpoint. However, it is unable to reach the provided endpoint. EXCEPTION: FILE UNAVAILABLE FOR IMS PARSING – In this exception the Log Files exist, however, the records are not available for IMS parsing or retrieval. This might happen because the Log File is not under the management of the IMS. SUCCESSFUL – In a successful post-condition, either the requested Log(s) matching the request filter are returned or an endpoint is provided for a requesting entity to retrieve logs. Post-conditions FAILURE – In a failure case, one of the exception cases described above was encountered. A corresponding error is returned to the requesting entity. REQ-ORC-O2-33, REQ-ORC-O2-34, REQ-ORC-O2-35, REQ-ORC-O2-36, REQ- Traceability ORC-GEN36
> NOTE 1: The IMS shall store Alarm Logs. Log management is an area of LCM/FCAPS. 3GPP uses the term “Alarms
list”.
> NOTE 2: see GA&P basic concepts, not all faults are transformed into Alarms.
> NOTE 3: the O-Cloud infrastructure resources may also create fault and debug logs.
> NOTE 4: In the successful case, it is possible that some Logs matching filter could be returned. For example, a
request for Logs in the past week for which there were no logs on the 4th day would still successfully return logs for 6 of the 7 days.
> NOTE 5: Absolutely no data (non-existent logs exception) is different than returning some data (success).
> NOTE 6: The endpoint for the consumer is not likely to be the O2ims endpoint but another endpoint within the O-
Cloud.
> NOTE 7: The server or networking implementation will create the error.

#### 3.7.8.3 UML Sequence Diagram

### 3.7.9 Alarm Dictionary Discovery Use Case

#### 3.7.9.1 High Level Description
When a new O-Cloud Resource Type is discovered in the O-Cloud infrastructure either on O-Cloud genesis or during run-time, the IMS would inform FOCOM (SMO) about that new Resource Type so that the appropriate corresponding alarm dictionary can be identified. NOTE: every version of a Resource has its own Resource Type and thus an Alarm Dictionary associated with it. It is expected that the SMO would have already onboarded the associated Resource Type before it is discovered by the O-Cloud infrastructure, as described in O2 IMS Specification [17]. The four situations where an alarm dictionary could be discovered are: a. SOFTWARE UPDATE – A software update creates a new resource type with its attendant alarm dictionary in inventory. Existing resources can either remain pointing to the existing Resource Type or be software updated to the newly loaded Resource Type. Each Resource Type has its own unique alarm dictionary associated with it at the SMO. b. QUERY & SYNCHRONIZATION – A query service may also result in the discovery of new Resource Types in the O-Cloud infrastructure. Additionally, the initial synchronization of the model between the O- Cloud and management system (SMO) may result in the discovery of Resource Types to be managed. Each Resource Type has its own unique alarm dictionary associated with it. c. NEW RESOURCES ADDED – New objects have been added to the O-Cloud infrastructure. Subsequently, new Resource Types corresponding to those new objects may be added which then may result in an Infrastructure Inventory Event being generated to a consumer (FOCOM/SMO) or subscriber. Each Resource Type has its own unique alarm dictionary associated with it. d. IMS LIFE CYCLE SOFTWARE UPDATE – When the software of the O-Cloud is updated new Resource Types can be discovered. There are two possible ways the IMS gets the Alarm Dictionary. The SMO might update the IMS with the Alarm Dictionary. In another method, the IMS might get the Alarm Dictionary from the O-Cloud Resource (or external proxy for the resource). See the Resource Type Onboarding LCM Use Case for more details. The source of truth is in the cloud for Cloud Resource types.

#### 3.7.9.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> USE CASE EVOLUTION / SPECIFICATION STAGE Related Use Use Case Title Alarm Dictionary Discovery (IMS) The primary goal of this use case is where the consumer (SMO) adds an alarm dictionary corresponding to a new discovered Resource Type in the O-Cloud infrastructure. Goal A consequence is that the consumer (SMO) has a corresponding alarm dictionary that corresponds to every Resource Type that would emit alarms. The triggers for this use case revolve around insuring that consistency. O-Cloud Operator – The O-Cloud operator is a consumer (or entity) using or interfacing with the SMO (FOCOM). Actors and SMO (FOCOM) – The FOCOM within the SMO is used in this use case to represent any consumer Roles of this use case. IMS – The IMS within the O-Cloud is used to represent any provider of the responses to the use case triggers. Assumptions No Assumptions Connectivity – The producer has connectivity to the consumer by some mechanism. The mechanism by which the subscriber achieves connectivity to the publisher is out of the scope of this Use Case. O-Cloud Operational – The O-Cloud is installed, operating, and registered with the SMO. Preconditions Privilege – The consumer identification and privileges of an SMO user has been verified to be able to perform O2 operations. Alarm Dictionaries Onboarded – Alarm Dictionar(ies) are onboarded with the Resource Type definition(s) into the O-Cloud Infrastructure Inventory. This is performed by software in the O-Cloud that manages Resource Types. There are four triggers that invokes this Use Case: Software update of an O-Cloud Resource – When software is updated for an O-Cloud Infrastructure Resource(s), a new Resource Type might be discovered which will trigger this use case. New Resources deployed – When new Resources are deployed to the O-Cloud Infrastructure, it may cause new Resource Types to be discovered which would subsequently trigger this use case. Begins when Query Infrastructure Inventory – A Query Infrastructure Inventory for a Resource Type triggers this use case. One place this occurs is in O-Cloud Registration & Initialization during O-Cloud genesis, the consumer performs a Query Infrastructure Inventory. The consumer then gets the alarm dictionaries for all of the Resource Types discovered during genesis. See the O-Cloud Registration & Initialization use case. IMS Life Cycle Software Update – When the software of the O-Cloud is updated new Resource Types can be discovered which will trigger this use case. Resource Type Record Created - A new Resource Type record is created during O-Cloud onboarding which is when an Alarm dictionary corresponding to that Resource Type is onboarded within the O-Cloud (see pre-conditions). These triggers cause a new Resource Type record to be created: Software update of an O-Cloud Resource – When software is updated for an O-Cloud Infrastructure Resource(s), a new Resource Type is created. IMS Life Cycle Software Update – When the software of the O-Cloud is updated new Resource Types record is created. Step 1 (M) New Resources deployed – When new Resources are deployed to the O-Cloud Infrastructure, it may cause new Resource Type to be created. These two triggers would cause a new Resource Type record to be discovered by SMO: Query Infrastructure Inventory – A Query Infrastructure Inventory for a Resource Type is discovered for a previously created Resource Type record. Infrastructure Inventory Notification – A Infrastructure Inventory notification from the O-Cloud to the subscriber, the IMS will send a copy of the Resource Type record. O-Cloud Infrastructure Inventory Event Notification (Alt) – Step 2 occurs if a subscription already exists and the Step 1 triggers for creation of new Resource Type(s) or discovery of Resource Type(s). An O-Cloud Infrastructure Inventory Event Notification Step 2 (ALT) is sent from the IMS in the O-Cloud over O2ims interface to the consumer, FOCOM/SMO to communicate the Resource Type(s) information.
> NOTE 1: For the definition of the InfrastructureInventoryEventNotification see Reference [17].
Step 3 (ALT) Query O-Cloud Info Request – The consumer, FOCOM/SMO, can send a request to Query the O-Cloud for inventory information. This request will result in the SMO discovering new Resource Type(s). Query O-Cloud Info Response – The producer, IMS processes the Query request and returns any new Resource Types that have been discovered for a previously created Resource Type record. Step 4 (ALT)
> NOTE 2: Upon receipt, the consumer, SMO, is expected to associate the new Alarm Dictionaries
with the newly discovered Resource Types. The Resource Type object contains the Alarm Dictionary associate with the Resource ID or vendor make & model data. Alarm Dictionary associated – It is expected that the consumer, SMO, will associate the Alarm Dictionar(ies) for the new Resource Type(s) sent by the IMS.
> NOTE 3: The consumer, SMO, will likely aggregate all the Alarm Dictionaries across the O-Clouds
Step 5 (M) that it has purview to. This is implementation specific.
> NOTE 4: (error case) If a Resource Type raises alarms, then there is an Alarm Dictionary, but it
was not loaded (due to error), for this use case, the IMS will indicate there is no dictionary for this Resource Type. If later, an alarm is sent for that resource instance with a missing Alarm Dictionary, a user will have to debug and load the Alarm Dictionary post facto. This use case end when the consumer has associated new Alarm Dictionar(ies) to newly create or Ends when discovered Resource Type(s). Exceptions None Success – Upon successful execution of the use case, the consumer, SMO, associates new Alarm Post- Dictionar(ies) to newly discovered or created Resource Type(s). conditions Failure – No failure cases Traceability [REQ-ORC-52], [REQ-ORC-O2-53]

#### 3.7.9.3 UML Sequence Diagram

### 3.7.10 Logging Configuration Use Case

#### 3.7.10.1 High Level Description
The Logging Configuration use case defines how IMS administrates, provisions, and configures Logging Management for logs that reside in the O-Cloud generated by O-Cloud Resources. It is related to the Log Query (IMS) Use Case [see Clause 3.7.8 above] because it sets the behavior how IMS handles the management of logging that underpins the Log Query use case. This Use case will cover Logging Configuration. Some examples of Logging Configuration: the configuration of the retention period, the activation of logging, logging rotation of older logs (FIFO), and setting log levels. Logging Configuration can apply to all the various types of logs kept in the O-Cloud including Alarm, Fault and Debug logs. The direct Logging Configuration toward specific types of logs are implementation specific. There are Cloud native implementations for storing logs produced from O-Cloud Infrastructure resources. O-Cloud Resources could be physical or logical (see [9]). The Logging Configuration use case should apply to O-Cloud Resources in a uniform way but should also account for those Cloud specific implementations. For example, the use of logging level by the IMS may not have a perfect “mapping” to a log level from a O-Cloud Infrastructure resource’s log.

#### 3.7.10.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> USE CASE EVOLUTION / SPECIFICATION STAGE Related Use Use Case Title Logging Configuration Use Case The goal of this use case is to allow IMS to administrate, provision, and configure logs that reside in the O-Cloud generated by O-Cloud Resources. The direct Logging Configuration toward specific types of logs are implementation specific. The following examples are some Logging Configuration operations that might be requested by an entity:
- Configure the retention period of logs
Goal
- Activate logging
- Configure logging rotation (e.g. FIFO retention method)
- Configure Log Levels where appropriate.
> NOTE: The GA&P describes the triggers for writing Log entries; these are
implementation dependent. Some implementations may also use Logging Configuration to define the associated specific Log writing triggers. O-Cloud Operator – The O-Cloud Operator is a consumer (or entity) using or interfacing with the SMO (FOCOM). SMO (FOCOM) – The FOCOM within the SMO is used in this use case to represent Actors and Roles any entity that wants to manage logs. IMS – The IMS within the O-Cloud processes the Logging Configuration requests as an actor. Not all O-Cloud Resources will support logging levels. If an O-Cloud Resource Assumptions produces logs, but does not support the concept of Log Levels, that O-Cloud Resource will just behave as if there is one level. Essentially a binary “on” or “off”. Connectivity – The producer has connectivity to the consumer by some mechanism. The mechanism by which the subscriber achieves connectivity to the publisher is out of the scope of this Use Case. Preconditions O-Cloud Operational & Registered – The O-Cloud is installed, operating, and has registered its IMS with the SMO. Privilege – The consumer identification and privileges have been verified to be able to perform O2 operations, such as Logging Configuration. An entity wants to perform Logging Configuration activities such as administrating, Begins when provisioning, and configuring how logging works. Logging Configuration Operation An entity, or O-Cloud Operator requests for Logging Configuration operation such as any of the following: Step 1 (M)
- Configure the retention period of logs
- Activate logging
- Configure logging rotation (e.g. FIFO retention method)
- Configure Log Levels where appropriate.
Logging Configuration Operation The Logging Configuration operation of Step 1 Step 2 (M) goes from the FOCOM to the IMS over the O2 IMS interface. Logging Configuration Success Step 3.1 (ALT) In the successful case, the result of the Logging Configuration operation is returned to the requestor, typically the SMO (FOCOM). Exception: Invalid Configuration In this exception case, the entity or O-Cloud Operator has requested for a setting or operation that is invalid, outside the bounds of its allowed limits, or not understood Step 3.2 (ALT) by the IMS Logging Management framework. Because this is an atomic request, and not a transactional request, the operation will either fail or succeed. That is, an entity does not send multiple operations together in a single request. Logging Configuration Operation Status The Logging Configuration Operation Status is returned to the O-Cloud Operator or Step 3.3 (M) entity from the SMO (FOCOM) with the result of the Logging Configuration operation. That status would include any associated information with the operation or exception codes. This use case ends when the Logging Configuration Operation has been Ends when successfully performed or has encountered an exception. This use case has invalid configuration as an exception. This might occur if an entity Exceptions tries to request for a configuration value that is outside the bounds of its allowed limits. Success – Upon successful execution of the use case, the requesting entity is informed of the results of the Logging Configuration operation. Post-conditions Failure – If the invalid configuration exception has been encountered, no values are changed; and it is expected that the O-Cloud IMS will continue to behave as before. A failure result is sent to the requestor. Traceability [REQ-ORC-O2-54], [REQ-ORC-O2-55]

#### 3.7.10.3 UML Sequence Diagram

### 3.7.11 Alarm List Configuration Use Case

#### 3.7.11.1 High Level Description
This use case describes how the Alarm List is configured through a service operation. The SMO, or an authorized entity can request to configure the behavior of Alarm List Management at the IMS. Faults are errors that an O-Cloud infrastructure resource detects (and stores). The fault is sent to the IMS. The IMS performs the task of sending alarm notifications to an end user (SMO or subscribing entity) and mapping the incoming faults to alarms. The IMS keeps all the current alarms in an alarm list. The request to configure the Alarm List is sent from the FOCOM towards the IMS. The request has attributes which describe the Alarm List properties to be adjusted. The Retention Period of alarms and Extension attributes can be changed by the Alarm List Configuration operation. After the Retention Period expires, alarms in the alarm list would be purged or archived based on alarm policy. For example, the Alarm List configuration request could have an attribute to specify to Retention Period by the IMS for 72 hours. Another operation to configure the Alarm List behavior could adjust the optional value(s) in the Extension attribute list of the Alarm List. Additional extensions attributes in the Alarm List Configuration request could change other aspects of Alarm List Management behavior by the IMS. This would allow for implementation specific behavior. For example, an Alarm List extension attribute might cause certain types of alarms from a certain compute node resource to be purged or archived after a certain period of time or based on triggers. Other extension attributes might define overflow behavior, or alarm list composition handling.

#### 3.7.11.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> USE CASE EVOLUTION / SPECIFICATION STAGE Related Use Use Case Title Alarm List Configuration Use Case The goals for this use case are to allow for a consumer (SMO) or requesting entity to configure the Purge of Alarm List attributes: Alarms Use Case 1. The request can change the Alarm List retention per Resource Type 2. The request could change the additional extension attributes to adjust other aspects of Alarm List management. Note: The IMS behavior of what happens to the alarms after the Retention Period expires depends Goal on alarm list retention policy. Alarm list retention policy could be altered by the additional extension attribute(s). What happens to alarms currently in the Alarm List when an Alarm List Configuration request arrives is also up to Alarm list retention policy. Note: It would be implementation specific the kind of alarm list retention policy that would be employed and whether there would be a default behavior. Note: See the Purge of Alarms Use Case. O-Cloud Operator – The O-Cloud Operator is a consumer (or entity) using or interfacing with the SMO (FOCOM). Actors and SMO (FOCOM) – The FOCOM within the SMO is used in this use case to represent any consumer Roles of this use case. IMS – The IMS within the O-Cloud is used to represent any provider of the responses to the use case triggers. Assumptions There are no assumptions. Connectivity – The producer has connectivity to the consumer by some mechanism. The mechanism by which the subscriber achieves connectivity to the publisher is out of the scope of this Use Case. O-Cloud Operational & Registered – The O-Cloud is installed, operating, and registered with the SMO. Preconditions Privilege – The consumer identification and privileges of a SMO user have been verified to be able to perform O2 operations. Note: it is possible that the IMS currently has no alarms in its Alarm List. It is ok to invoke this use case with an empty Alarm List This use case begins when an entity or operator requests for configuration of Alarm List Begins when management operations. ALARM LIST CONFIGURATION REQUEST An entity, or O-Cloud Operator requests for an Alarm List Configuration to the SMO. Step 1 (M) The Alarm List Configuration request contains the Resource Types that should be affected by the update. The request may apply to the entire Alarm List as well. The alarm Retention Period per Resource Type(s) are given in the request and additional extension attributes to adjust other aspects of Alarm List Management can also be included in the request. ALARM LIST CONFIGURATION REQUEST The Alarm List Configuration request is sent from the SMO (or entity) to IMS in the O-Cloud.IMS processes the Alarm List Configuration request by adjusting the Retention Period(s) from the Step 2 (M) request.
> NOTE: The SMO may perform prechecks on the Alarm List Configuration request based on
implementation. For example, the SMO may check that the Retention Period is within a valid range, or that the Resource Types are valid. Step 3.1 (ALT) ALARM LIST CONFIGURATION RESPONSE The IMS in the O-Cloud provides a response to the Alarm List Configuration request. See also the Alarm List Management Query Use Case [to be addressed in future]. Note: The Alarm List Configuration response will likely include the updated value(s) of the Alarm List, though this is implementation specific. EXCEPTION: INVALID SETTING If the Alarm List Configuration request had a syntactic error, the IMS would encounter this exception. Step 3.2 (ALT) Note: Specific IMS implementations can support additional extension attributes and define their expected settings and syntax. An exception will be returned in the Alarm List Configuration response. EXCEPTION: NON-EXISTING RESOURCE TYPE If the Alarm List Configuration request applies to resource type (and not to the entire Alarm List), and specified operations are for non-existing resource types, the IMS would encounter this Step 3.3 (ALT) exception. An exception will be returned in the Alarm List Configuration response. ALARM LIST CONFIGURATION RESPONSE Step 4 (M) The SMO provides a response for the Alarm List Configuration request to a requesting operator or entity. This use case ends when the Alarm List Configuration request has been successfully completed, Ends when or an exception has been encountered. INVALID SETTING – There was an invalid setting or syntactic error for the Alarm List Configuration request. Exceptions NON-EXISTING RESOURCE TYPE – For Alarm List Configuration requests that apply to resource types (and not the entire Alarm List), if the request was trying to apply a change to a non-existing Resource Type this exception would be encountered. SUCCESS – The requested Alarm List Configuration Retention Periods have been updated. There Post- are no additional actions that need to be taken. conditions FAILURE – There are no additional actions that need to be taken. Traceability [REQ-ORC-O2-73], [REQ-ORC-O2-74]

#### 3.7.11.3 UML Sequence Diagram

### 3.7.12 Alarm Suppression Use Case

#### 3.7.12.1 Introduction
This use case supports Alarm Suppression for O2ims. Alarm Suppression allows for the IMS to suppress alarm notification from the IMS to the SMO. This is useful to avoid alarm floods caused by disasters or maintenance work. The suppression policy such as type of alarms to be suppressed can be configured with an Alarm Suppression request order. Other suppression criteria, such as suppression level, suppression period, and suppression deactivation policy, can be configured, too. The suppression timer and threshold to activate Alarm Suppression may be configured via an Alarm Suppression request order. The Alarm Suppression criteria can be configured by the SMO or the IMS itself. The IMS can initiate Alarm Suppression autonomously, for example, in the situation where the O2ims link between the SMO and the IMS is overloaded and the SMO is unable to send the Alarm Suppression request via the O2ims link, or in the situation where there is a loss of communication on the O2ims link. SMO can deactivate the IMS-initiated Alarm Suppression. IMS can also deactivate the SMO-initiated Alarm Suppression. This use case covers the four operations of Alarm Suppression, which are 1) Activation of Alarm Suppression 2) Query of Alarm Suppression criteria and status 3) Update of Alarm Suppression criteria 4) Deactivation of Alarm Suppression O-Cloud Operator or the SMO can initiate all of the four operations, Alarm Suppression Activation, Query, Update, and Deactivation. The IMS can initiate the three operations, Alarm Suppression Activation, Update, and Deactivation. 1. Alarm Suppression Activation The Alarm Suppression Activation request is sent from the SMO to the IMS to activate Alarm Suppression. After processing the activation request, the IMS responds to the SMO with Alarm Suppression Activation status (success or failure). The IMS may include the configured Alarm Suppression criteria and status. The IMS may also activate Alarm Suppression by configuring Alarm Suppression criteria autonomously. In that case, the activation of Alarm Suppression should be informed to the SMO with the configured Alarm Suppression criteria and status.
> NOTE: If an alarm suppression timer or threshold is configured by Alarm Suppression Activation operation, the alarm
suppression triggered by the timer or threshold needs to be notified to the SMO. 2. Alarm Suppression Query The SMO can query the Alarm Suppression status (such as active/inactive) and criteria. The IMS responds to the request with the current Alarm Suppression criteria and status. 3. Alarm Suppression Update The SMO can request to update the Alarm Suppression criteria. The Alarm Suppression Update request from the SMO to the IMS includes the order that describes how to change the Alarm Suppression criteria that the IMS keeps. After processing the update request, the IMS responds to the SMO with Alarm Suppression Update status (success or failure). The IMS may include the updated Alarm Suppression criteria and status. The IMS may also update Alarm Suppression by updating Alarm Suppression criteria autonomously. In that case, the update of Alarm Suppression should be informed to the SMO with the updated Alarm Suppression criteria and status. 4. Alarm Suppression Deactivation When the SMO sends an Alarm Suppression Deactivation request to the IMS, the IMS responds to the request with Alarm Suppression Deactivation status (success or failure). The IMS may also deactivate Alarm Suppression by removing Alarm Suppression criteria. In that case, the deactivation of Alarm Suppression should be informed to the SMO. Once the Alarm Suppression is deactivated, the SMO or IMS can trigger the Alarm Synchronization as documented in the Alarm Synchronization Use Case [see Clause 3.7.6] for the suppressed alarms to synchronize and reconcile the state of alarms between IMS and SMO.
> NOTE: If an alarm suppression is deactivated by the suppression deactivation policy, the policy-based alarm
suppression deactivation needs to be notified to the SMO. How the IMS implements the Alarm Suppression is via the use of policies. How these policies are managed are described in the Alarm List Configuration Use Case [See 3.7.11]. Different kind of alarms could be raised with the same root cause by different entities. Some intelligence needs to identify a root cause of those alarms and correlate them. With such an alarm correlation, alarms can be suppressed efficiently.
> NOTE: How to control the Alarm Suppression with some kind of intelligence is out of scope of this use case.
Section 3.7.12.2 describes the Operator/SMO-initiated Alarm Suppression Activation, Query, Update, and Deactivation. Section 3.7.12.3 describes the IMS-initiated Alarm Suppression Activation, Update, and Deactivation.

#### 3.7.12.2 Operator/SMO-initiated Alarm Suppression

##### 3.7.12.2.1 High Level Description
This use case supports the Operator/SMO-initiated Alarm Suppression. It allows for the SMO to request the IMS to suppress alarm notification, query the suppression criteria and status, update the suppression criteria, and deactivate alarm suppression.

##### 3.7.12.2.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use The goal for this use case is to allow for the SMO to request suppression of Goal alarm notification, query the suppression criteria and status, update the suppression criteria, and deactivate alarm suppression via O2ims. O-Cloud Operator – The O-Cloud Operator is an entity interfacing with the SMO. FOCOM (SMO) – The FOCOM within the SMO is used in this use case to represent any consumer of this use case. Actors and Roles IMS – The IMS in the O-Cloud is the publisher. The owner of the alarms to be suppressed. The IMS is responsible for transforming faults received from O- Cloud Resource into alarms. It would suppress alarms based on its alarm suppression criteria. It is expected that the fault originating from the source of truth, the O-Cloud Resource, is still raised to the IMS. It is expected that the O-Cloud Resource Assumptions faults would be logged. The IMS has no expectation that the O-Cloud Resources suppress the faults. The IMS would also perform the transformation of the fault into an alarm (as normal), and record that an alarm occurred. Connectivity – SMO has connectivity to IMS in O-Cloud. Preconditions Registered – O-Cloud has registered its IMS with the SMO. Privileges – The identification & privileges of a SMO user has been verified. This use case begins in one of two cases: 1. The O-Cloud Operator initiates an Alarm Suppression Activation, Query, Begins when Update, or Deactivation request. 2. The SMO initiates an Alarm Suppression Activation, Query, Update, or Deactivation request. ALARM SUPPRESSION ACTIVATION Steps ALARM SUPPRESSION ACTIVATION INITIATED BY OPERATOR – An Alarm Activation: Suppression Activation request is initiated from the O-Cloud Operator towards Step 1.1 (ALT) SMO. ALARM SUPPRESSION ACTIVATION INITIATED BY SMO – An Alarm Activation: Suppression Activation is initiated by the SMO. Step 1.2 (ALT) Activation: ALARM SUPPRESSION ACTIVATION REQUEST – An Alarm Suppression Step 2 (M) Activation request is composed by the SMO and sent to the IMS. IMS PROCESSES ALARM SUPPRESSION ACTIVATION – The IMS Activation: processes the Alarm Suppression Activation request. The IMS has activated Step 3 (M) Alarm Suppression or set the policy to activate the Alarm Suppression based on the suppression order in the Alarm Suppression Activation Request. ALARM SUPPRESSION ACTIVATION SUCCESS – The Alarm Suppression Activation: Activation operation was successfully performed by the IMS without any Step 4.1 (ALT) issues. A success response is returned to the SMO by the IMS. The response may include the configured Alarm Suppression criteria. Activation: EXCEPTION: UNEXPECTED CONDITION – The IMS might not be able to Step 4.2 (ALT) comply to the request. A response is sent from the IMS to the SMO. ALARM SUPPRESSION ACTIVATION RESPONSE – An Alarm Suppression Activation: Activation response is sent back to the requesting entity. The response may Step 5 (O) include the configured Alarm Suppression criteria. ALARM SUPPRESSION QUERY Steps ALARM SUPPRESSION QUERY INITIATED BY OPERATOR – An Alarm Query: Suppression Query request is initiated from the O-Cloud Operator towards Step 1.1 (ALT) SMO. Query: ALARM SUPPRESSION QUERY INITIATED BY SMO – An Alarm Suppression Step 1.2 (ALT) Query is initiated by the SMO. Query: ALARM SUPPRESSION QUERY REQUEST – An Alarm Suppression Query Step 2 (M) request is composed by the SMO and sent to the IMS. Query: IMS PROCESSES ALARM SUPPRESSION QUERY – The IMS processes the Step 3 (M) Alarm Suppression Query request. ALARM SUPPRESSION QUERY SUCCESS – The Alarm Suppression Query Query: operation was successfully processed by the IMS without any issues. Alarm Step 4.1 (ALT) Suppression status is returned to the SMO by the IMS. The response includes the current Alarm Suppression criteria. Query: EXCEPTION: UNEXPECTED CONDITION – The IMS might not be able to Step 4.2 (ALT) comply to the request. A response is sent from the IMS to the SMO. ALARM SUPPRESSION QUERY RESPONSE – An Alarm Suppression status Query: response is sent back to the requesting entity. The response includes the Step 5 (O) current Alarm Suppression criteria. ALARM SUPPRESSION UPDATE Steps ALARM SUPPRESSION UPDATE INITIATED BY OPERATOR – An Alarm Suppression Update request is initiated from the O-Cloud Operator towards Update: SMO. Step 1.1 (ALT) The Alarm Suppression Update request includes the order that describes how to change the Alarm Suppression criteria in the IMS. ALARM SUPPRESSION UPDATE INITIATED BY SMO – An Alarm Update: Suppression Update is initiated by the SMO. Step 1.2 (ALT) ALARM SUPPRESSION UPDATE REQUEST – An Alarm Suppression Update Update: request is composed by the SMO and sent to the IMS. The request includes the Step 2 (M) order that describes how to change the Alarm Suppression criteria in the IMS. IMS PROCESSES ALARM SUPPRESSION UPDATE – The IMS processes the Update: Alarm Suppression Update request. The IMS has updated the Alarm Step 3 (M) Suppression criteria. ALARM SUPPRESSION UPDATE SUCCESS – The Alarm Suppression Update: Update operation was successfully performed by the IMS without any issues. A Step 4.1 (ALT) success response is returned to the SMO by the IMS. The response may include the updated Alarm Suppression criteria. Update: EXCEPTION: UNEXPECTED CONDITION – The IMS might not be able to Step 4.2 (ALT) comply to the request. A response is sent from the IMS to the SMO. ALARM SUPPRESSION UPDATE RESPONSE – An Alarm Suppression Update: Update response is sent back to the requesting entity. The response may Step 5 (O) include the updated Alarm Suppression criteria. ALARM SUPPRESSION DEACTIVATION Steps ALARM SUPPRESSION DEACTIVATION INITIATED BY OPERATOR – An Deactivation: Alarm Suppression Deactivation request is initiated from the O-Cloud Operator Step 1.1 (ALT) towards SMO. ALARM SUPPRESSION DEACTIVATION INITIATED BY SMO – An Alarm Deactivation: Suppression Deactivation is initiated by the SMO. Step 1.2 (ALT) Deactivation: ALARM SUPPRESSION DEACTIVATION REQUEST – An Alarm Suppression Step 2 (M) Deactivation request is composed by the SMO and sent to the IMS. IMS PROCESSES ALARM SUPPRESSION DEACTIVATION – The IMS Deactivation: processes the Alarm Suppression Deactivation request. The IMS has Step 3 (M) deactivated the Alarm Suppression. ALARM SUPPRESSION DEACTIVATION SUCCESS – The Alarm Deactivation: Suppression Deactivation operation was successfully performed by the IMS Step 4.1 (ALT) without any issues. A success response is returned to the SMO by the IMS. Deactivation: EXCEPTION: UNEXPECTED CONDITION – The IMS might not be able to Step 4.2 (ALT) comply to the request. A response is sent from the IMS to the SMO. Deactivation: ALARM SUPPRESSION DEACTIVATION RESPONSE – An Alarm Step 5 (O) Suppression Deactivation response is sent back to the requesting entity. ALARM LIST SYNCHRONIZATION – After deactivation of Alarm Suppression, 3.7.6 Alarm Deactivation: the Alarm Synchronization Use Case may be invoked to synchronize alarm Synchronization Step 6 (O) status in SMO and IMS. Use Case This use case ends if the IMS encounters an unexpected condition, or a Ends when successful Alarm Suppression Activation / Query / Update / Deactivation operation has been performed. UNEXPECTED CONDITION – If the IMS was unable to perform the Alarm Exceptions Suppression Activation / Query / Update / Deactivation operation, this exception is encountered. SUCCESS: (1) Response to the Alarm Suppression Activation / Query / Update / Deactivation request is sent to the requesting entity. (2) For Alarm Suppression Activation, the alarm notification has been suppressed based on the suppression criteria. For the Alarm Suppression Query, the suppression criteria have been returned Post-conditions to the SMO. For the Alarm Suppression Update, the suppression criteria have been updated. For the Alarm Suppression Deactivation, alarm notification has no longer suppressed and alarm status between SMO and IMS are synchronized. FAILURE: The exception response has been sent to the requesting entity (see above). Traceability REQ-ORC-O2-81, REQ-ORC-O2-82

##### 3.7.12.2.3 UML Sequence Diagram

#### 3.7.12.3 IMS-initiated Alarm Suppression

##### 3.7.12.3.1 High Level Description
This use case supports the IMS-initiated Alarm Suppression. It allows for the IMS to initiate the suppression of alarm notification from IMS to SMO, update of the suppression criteria, and deactivation of alarm suppression.

##### 3.7.12.3.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use The goal for this use case is to allow for the IMS to suppress alarm notification, Goal update the suppression criteria, and deactivate alarm suppression. O-Cloud Operator – The O-Cloud Operator is an entity interfacing with the SMO. FOCOM (SMO) – The FOCOM within the SMO is used in this use case to represent a receiver of notifications. Actors and Roles IMS – The IMS in the O-Cloud is the publisher. The owner of the alarms to be suppressed. The IMS is responsible for transforming faults received from O- Cloud Resource into alarms. It would suppress alarms based on its alarm suppression criteria. It is expected that the fault originating from the source of truth, the O-Cloud Resource, is still raised to the IMS. It is expected that the O-Cloud Resource Assumptions faults would be logged. The IMS has no expectation that the O-Cloud Resources suppress the faults. The IMS would also perform the transformation of the fault into an alarm (as normal), and record that an alarm occurred. Connectivity – SMO has connectivity to IMS in O-Cloud. Preconditions Registered – O-Cloud has registered its IMS with the SMO. Privileges – The identification & privileges of a SMO user has been verified. This use case begins when the IMS initiates an Alarm Suppression Activation, Begins when Update, or Deactivation operation. ALARM SUPPRESSION ACTIVATION Steps Activation: ALARM SUPPRESSION ACTIVATION INITIATED – An Alarm Suppression Step 1 (M) Activation is initiated by the IMS. ALARM SUPPRESSION ACTIVATION NOTIFICATION – The Alarm Suppression Activation operation was successfully performed by the IMS Activation: without any issues. An Alarm Suppression status change notification is sent to Step 2.1 (ALT) the SMO by the IMS. The response includes the configured Alarm Suppression criteria. EXCEPTION: UNEXPECTED CONDITION – The IMS might not be able to Activation: process the Alarm Suppression Activation operation. No notification to the SMO Step 2.2 (ALT) is necessary for the failure case. ALARM SUPPRESSION UPDATE Steps Update: ALARM SUPPRESSION UPDATE INITIATED – An Alarm Suppression Update Step 1 (M) is initiated by the IMS. ALARM SUPPRESSION UPDATE NOTIFICATION – The Alarm Suppression Update: Update operation was successfully performed by the IMS without any issues. Step 2.1 (ALT) An Alarm Suppression status change notification is sent to the SMO by the IMS. The response includes the updated Alarm Suppression criteria. EXCEPTION: UNEXPECTED CONDITION – The IMS might not be able to Update: process the Alarm Suppression Update operation. No notification to the SMO is Step 2.2 (ALT) necessary for the failure case. ALARM SUPPRESSION DEACTIVATION Steps Deactivation: ALARM SUPPRESSION DEACTIVATION INITIATED – An Alarm Suppression Step 1 (M) Deactivation is initiated by the IMS. ALARM SUPPRESSION DEACTIVATION NOTIFICATION – The Alarm Deactivation: Suppression Deactivation operation was successfully performed by the IMS Step 2.1 (ALT) without any issues. An Alarm Suppression status change notification is sent to the SMO by the IMS. EXCEPTION: UNEXPECTED CONDITION – The IMS might not be able to Deactivation: process the Alarm Suppression Deactivation operation. No notification to the Step 2.2 (ALT) SMO is necessary for the failure case. ALARM LIST SYNCHRONIZATION – After deactivation of Alarm Suppression, 3.7.6 Alarm Deactivation: the Alarm Synchronization Use Case may be invoked to synchronize alarm Synchronization Step 3 (O) status in SMO and IMS. Use Case This use case ends if the IMS encounters an unexpected condition, or a Ends when successful Alarm Suppression Activation / Update / Deactivation operation has been performed. UNEXPECTED CONDITION – If the IMS was unable to perform the Alarm Exceptions Suppression Activation / Update / Deactivation operation, this exception is encountered. SUCCESS: (1) Notification of the Alarm Suppression Activation / Update / Deactivation is sent to the SMO. (2) For Alarm Suppression Activation, the alarm notification has been Post-conditions suppressed based on the suppression criteria. For the Alarm Suppression Update, the suppression criteria have been updated. For the Alarm Suppression Deactivation, alarm notification has no longer suppressed and alarm status between SMO and IMS are synchronized. FAILURE: No notification to the SMO is necessary for the failure case. Traceability REQ-ORC-O2-83

##### 3.7.12.3.3 UML Sequence Diagram

### 3.7.13 Alarm Purge Use Case

#### 3.7.13.1 High Level Description
The Alarm Purge Use case describes Purging of alarms. Alarms in the alarm list that are older than the Retention Period will be purged. This is the most basic situation, when an alarm in the alarm list is older than the Retention Period, the IMS automatically purges old inactive and acknowledged cleared alarms. From the Alarm List Configuration use case (see Clause 3.7.11), after the Retention Period expires, alarms in the Alarm List would be purged based on alarm policy. For example, the Retention Period might cause certain types of alarms from a certain Compute Node resource to be purged after a certain period or based on triggers. This Use Case also describes the forced Purge of alarms requested by the O-Cloud Operator. In this case, alarms to be purged are removed from the Alarm List irrespective of the Retention Period. See RFC 8632 [22] for related specifications. Only inactive alarms or acknowledged active alarms can be purged.
> NOTE 1: A forced Purge of alarms might be used if the storage capacity for the Alarm List approaches or is at
capacity; and an operator wants to remove (warning and minor) alarms from the Alarm List to free up space.
> NOTE 2: If an alarm condition persists after the original alarm is purged that it will reappear as a new alarm (spurred
from that same condition) in the Alarm List.

#### 3.7.13.2 Sequence Description
USE CASE <<Uses>> EVOLUTION / SPECIFICATION STAGE Related Use Use Case Title Alarm Purge Use Case This use case describes Alarm Purge operations. 3.7.11 Alarm List
- Forced Alarm Purge – Purging Alarms can be requested through a
Configuration forced Purge operation which purges alarms by removing from the Use Case Alarm List irrespective of the Retention Period.
- Alarm List Configuration Use Case – Alarms can also be purged
Goal when the Alarm List Configuration use case changes the Retention Period. Alarms in the Alarm List that are older than the Retention Period will be subject to purging.
- Old Alarms – When Alarms in the Alarm List are older than the
Retention Period, the IMS autonomously purges them by removing from the Alarm List.
> NOTE 1: Only inactive alarms or acknowledge active alarms can be purged.
O-Cloud Operator – The O-Cloud operator is a user that is interested in performing an Alarm Purge request (forced). Actors and SMO (FOCOM) – The FOCOM within the SMO is used in this use case to Roles represent any consumer or management entity that performs the Alarm List Configuration operation or handles the Alarm Purge request (forced). IMS – The IMS within the O-Cloud performs the Alarm Purge operations. Assumptions There are no assumptions. Connectivity – The Subscriber has connectivity to the Publisher by some mechanism. The mechanism by which the subscriber achieves connectivity to the publisher is out of the scope of this Use Case. Preconditions O-Cloud Operational – The O-Cloud is installed, operating, and registered with the SMO. Privilege – The consumer identification and privileges of a SMO user have been verified to be able to perform O2 operations. This use case begins when: Begins when - Forced Alarm Purge – An operator at the SMO wishes to purge alarms through an Alarm Purge (forced) operation.
- Alarm List Configuration Use Case – The Alarm List Configuration
operation changes the Retention Period.
- Old Alarms – When the IMS autonomously triggers a process to
evaluate if alarms are ready to be purged.
> NOTE 2: Additionally, alarms may be purged when a resource is removed or
deleted. In this case, the IMS will perform internal clean up to preserve referential integrity. This would be implementation specific. Operator/SMO initiated (Forced) Alarm Purge Steps ALARM PURGE REQUEST (FORCED) An entity, or O-Cloud Operator requests for an Alarm Purge to the SMO. Step 1 (M) The Alarm Purge request contains an order that requests for inactive and acknowledged alarm(s) to be purged from the Alarm List. ALARM PURGE REQUEST (FORCED) The Alarm Purge request is sent from the SMO (or entity) to IMS in the O- Cloud. Step 2 (M) The IMS processes the Alarm Purge request. The IMS purges alarms defined in the Alarm Purge request. Only inactive alarms or acknowledge active alarms can be purged. Purged alarms are removed from the Alarm List irrespective of the Retention Period. SUCCESSFUL ALARM PURGE – Step 3.1 (ALT) If the purge operation was successful, then a success response is sent to the SMO from the IMS over the O2ims interface SUCCESSFUL ALARM PURGE – Step 3.2 (ALT) If the purge operation was successful, then the results from the Alarm Purge command are given to the O-Cloud operator. ALT EXCEPTION: NO ALARMS MATCHING THE ALARM PURGE REQUEST FOUND – This exception is encountered when the Alarm Purge request contains only non-existent alarms. Step 3.3 (ALT) Because no alarms in the Alarm Purge request are in the Alarm List, no alarms will be purged. An exception is sent from the IMS to the SMO over the O2ims interface indicating that no alarms in the Alarm List match in the alarm purge request. ALT EXCEPTION: NO ALARMS MATCHING THE ALARM PURGE REQUEST FOUND – Step 3.4 (ALT) An Alarm Purge Command results are given to the O-Cloud Operator. The Use Case ends. ALT EXCEPTION: UNEXPECTED CONDITION – The IMS might not be able to perform the Alarm Purge according to the request. There might have been a software issue trying to process the Alarm Step 3.5 (ALT) Purge request. An unexpected condition is sent from the IMS to the SMO over the O2ims interface. ALT EXCEPTION: UNEXPECTED CONDITION – A response is sent to the requesting entity from the SMO, that the IMS Step 3.6 (ALT) encountered an unexpected condition processing the request. The Use Case ends. Alarm Purge from Alarm List Configuration Change of Retention Period Steps OLD ALARMS PURGED BY IMS Alarm List Configuration The Alarm list Configuration Use Case Steps 1-2 are performed (REF) Use Case (3.7.11) The IMS processes the Alarm List Configuration request. The IMS purges alarms because of a change in the Alarm Retention Period. Step 1 Alarms that are older than the new Alarm Retention Period are purged. Old inactive alarms or acknowledged active alarms are purged by removing them from the Alarm List. The Alarm list Configuration Use Case Steps 3.1-4 are performed (REF)
> NOTE 3: Active alarms and unacknowledged active alarms are not purged
irrespective of changes in the Alarm Retention Period changes. Autonomous Alarm Purge by IMS IMS OPERATIONS TRIGGER Step 1 The IMS autonomously triggers a process to evaluate if alarms are ready to be purged. OLD ALARMS PURGED BY IMS Alarms that are older than the Alarm Retention Period are purged autonomously by the IMS. Old inactive alarms or acknowledged active Step 2 alarms are purged by removing them from the Alarm List.
> NOTE 4: The logging of the purge of alarms by the IMS is left to
implementation. It is reasonable to expect that the IMS would log the purging of one or more alarms. This Use Case ends under two cases: PURGE OPERATION SUCCEEDS – The use case will end if the Alarm Purge operation successfully completed. Ends when EXCEPTION CASE – The use case ends when either the “No Alarms matching the Alarm Purge request were found” or “Unexpected condition” exceptions are encountered. EXCEPTION CASE: NO ALARMS MATCHING THE ALARM PURGE REQUEST FOUND – This exception is encountered when the Alarm Purge request contains only non-existent alarms. In this case, no alarms are purged since none match the request. Exceptions EXCEPTION CASE: UNEXPECTED CONDITION – The IMS might not be able to perform to the Alarm Purge request perhaps due to a software fault. In this case, the Unexpected Condition exception is encountered. SUCCESS – The Alarm Purge operation has been successfully completed Post-conditions and status returned to the requesting entity (e.g., O-Cloud operator). FAILURE – An exception notification for a “No Alarms matching the Alarm Purge request were found” or “Unexpected Condition” has been issued. Traceability [REQ-ORC-O2-97], [REQ-ORC-O2-98]

#### 3.7.13.3 UML Sequence Diagram

## 3.8 Performance Use Cases

### 3.8.1 Performance Measurement Job Creation Use Case

#### 3.8.1.1 High Level Description

# A Performance Measurement Job (PM Job) is a task for collecting measurements and metrics related to O-Cloud
Resources. It is the central entity for coordinating performance management activities. The IMS collects metrics and measurements from O-Cloud Resource(s). The PM Job is created in the IMS.
> NOTE 1: The concept of PM Job is described in O-RAN WG6 GA&P, Clause 3.9.5.
This use case describes: (1) The creation of PM Job(s) (2) The collection and processing of measurement data from O-Cloud Resource(s) tasked by the PM Job.
> NOTE 2: processing entails operations such as the conversion of counters from one form to another, storage of data,
scraping data from one format to another.

#### 3.8.1.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> USE CASE EVOLUTION / SPECIFICATION Related STAGE Use Use Case Title Performance Measurement Job (PM Job) Creation Use Case The PM Jobs are created within the IMS. Goal Performance data is made available to the SMO by the PM Jobs. SMO (FOCOM) – The FOCOM within the SMO is used in this use case to represent any consumer of performance data. IMS – The IMS within the O-Cloud is used to represent any provider of the Actors and Roles performance data. O-Cloud Resource – This is a resource in the O-Cloud that produces metrics and measurements. See WG6 O2 CADS [7] for definition of an O-Cloud Resource. Assumptions There are no assumptions. Connectivity – The Subscriber has connectivity to the Publisher by some Preconditions mechanism. The mechanism by which the subscriber achieves connectivity to the publisher is out of the scope of this Use Case. The Use Case begins during O-Cloud genesis when the O-Cloud starts Preinstalled Begins when PM jobs. PREINSTALLED PM JOBS STARTED – O-Cloud Preinstalled PM Jobs are started Step 1 (M) within the IMS upon cloud genesis. These Preinstalled PM Jobs address Performance Management needs for O-Cloud functions. IMS INFORMS SMO PREINSTALLED PM JOBS – The IMS informs SMO of the Step 2 (M) Preinstalled PM Jobs that have been started within the IMS after O-Cloud genesis. Step 3 (OPT) SMO REQUEST – (Optional) SMO Requests for additional PM Jobs. (Optional) If the request contains subscription related information, then an embedded subscription will be created as part of the created PM Job(s) or threshold(s). See note 1 and 2. IMS RESPONSE – PM Jobs creation status returns the status of PM Jobs running Step 4 (OPT) in the IMS. Step 5.1 (M) OPERATION – O-Cloud resources operate. Step 5.2 (M) DATA CREATED – Performance data (metrics and measurements) is identified. DATA COLLECTED BY IMS – The O-Cloud resources send performance data to Step 5.3 (M) the IMS. The collected performance data is processed according to the PM Jobs. The PM Jobs make the performance data available for reporting. Ends when The Use Case ends when the PM Jobs have a body of data ready for reporting. Exceptions None specified in the present document version. The PM Jobs have performance data across O-Cloud Resources available for Post-conditions subscription reporting. Traceability [REQ-ORC-O2-31, REQ-ORC-O2-32]
> NOTE 1: An embedded subscription means to optionally embed subscription related into the PM Job or threshold.
Ends up in created PM Job objects.
> NOTE 2: This allows the SMO to request for a subscription following the ETSI format or the 3GPP procedure.

#### 3.8.1.3 UML Sequence Diagram

### 3.8.2 Performance Management Subscription Use Case

#### 3.8.2.1 High Level Description
This use case describes the flow for an entity to subscribe to Performance Management data from an O-Cloud. Performance Measurement Jobs collect and compose measurements. The PM Subscription determines when and how those measurements are reported. The subscription allows a subscriber to get data that has been collected in the O- Cloud. Once subscribed, the measurement data is sent to a performance management subscriber, an entity north-bound of the O-Cloud. In the O-RAN context, it is the SMO; however, it could be another other subscribing entity. ￼￼ The Figure above shows the basic flow of Performance Data collection and subscription. Measurement and telemetry data is collected within the O-Cloud and gathered by PM Job(s) and stored locally. The Performance Subscription Manager within the IMS can retrieve the data to be sent to the SMO. There is a publisher and subscriber notification composed at the Performance Subscription Manager within the IMS and can then be used to perform analysis on within the SMO. Performance measurements in an O-Cloud might use event notification reporting, stream-based reporting, or file-based reporting to a subscriber. For performance measurements to be sent, a subscription needs to be created. The subscription indicates an end point for where the performance measurements should be sent to. The subscription filter qualifies what data from the PM Jobs should be sent. The subscription will indicate the interval. A capabilities exchange could occur between the SMO and the O-Cloud indicating the mechanism and formats supported by the O-Cloud. The SMO can then subscribe to the mechanisms and formats within the subscription filter. In the capabilities exchange, the IMS would report the jobs and their collection intervals.

#### 3.8.2.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> USE CASE EVOLUTION / SPECIFICATION Related STAGE Use Use Case Title Performance Management Subscription (IMS) This use case describes a flow where one or more consumers which want to receive performance event reporting notifications (file ready notifications, event Goal notification reporting, or streaming reporting) can issue a subscription to IMS which publishes Performance events. Each SUBSCRIBER has a consumer subscription identifier. There is one consumer subscription identifier per subscription. It doesn’t have to be unique for that subscription. The consumer subscription identifier is a character string that can be associated with meta-data within the SMO. See note. SMO (FOCOM) – The FOCOM within the SMO is used in this use case to represent any consumer of performance measurement data. Actors and Roles IMS – The IMS within the O-Cloud is used to represent any provider of the performance measurement data. There can be multiple subscribers to a single publisher. The subscriber-publisher cardinality is not enforced nor monitored. Each subscription is associated with one subscriber. Each subscription provides information about a single endpoint for receiving performance related notifications. Assumptions Thus, there cannot be multiple endpoints for sending performance related notifications from a single subscription. The subscriber may not be the ultimate consumer of performance notifications. The subscriber is not necessarily the same entity as the endpoint for notifications. CONNECTIVITY– The Subscriber has connectivity to the publisher by some mechanism. The mechanism by which the subscriber achieves connectivity to the publisher is out of the scope of this Use Case. Preconditions O-Cloud OPERATIONAL– O-Cloud is installed, operating, and the IMS in the O- Cloud has registered with SMO. The use case is triggered when a subscriber wishes to: Begins when (1) NOTIFICATION – A subscriber wishes to be notified of O-Cloud performance events. (2) OPERATOR INITIATED - An O-Cloud operator may also initiate a subscription. NOTIFICATION CRITERIA – This gives a notification criterion which initiates the subscription. Step 1 (M) The subscription criteria will indicate whether the subscribing entity wish to have file based, event notification based, or streaming based performance reporting. SUBSCRIPTION – The subscriber sends a performance event subscription to the Step 2 (M) publisher. The subscription includes the Consumer Subscription Identifier. CALLBACK REACHABILITY CHECK (Should) – A Reachability Check can be performed between the subscriber and publisher. This is a connectivity and Step 3 (O) authorization check. This check is optional. However, it is recommended that a reachability check is performed. This step should be performed; though it is stated as optional in ETSI IFA 032 [19]. REACHABILITY SUCCESS – This step indicates that the reachability check has Step 4 (ALT) passed successfully. REACHABILITY FAILURE – This step indicates that the reachability check has Step 5 (ALT) failed. SUBSCRIPTION DENIED (FAILURE) – The IMS has failed the reachability check. Step 6 (ALT) IMS will proceed to deny the performance subscription. SUBSCRIPTION STATUS (FAILURE) – If the reachability check has failed, the Step 7 (ALT) subscription status will indicate a failure. The use case will end at this point. This is a return to Step 2. SUBSCRIPTION ACKNOWLEDGE – The publisher indicates a subscription acknowledge. This essentially indicates a success for the subscription. (Optional) Step 8 (M) The consumer subscription identifier may be passed back in the subscription acknowledge. SUBSCRIPTION STATUS (SUCCESS) – A subscription status will indicate a Step 9 (M) success back to O-Cloud Operator. This is a return to Step 1. This use case ends when a performance subscription status has been sent Ends when successfully or on one of the failure cases, when there was a subscription failure. FAILURE CASE 1: FAILURE INDICATION - The Subscription acknowledge indicates a failure. FAILURE CASE 2: CONNECTIVITY ISSUE - Can’t reach the publisher, the reachability check has failed. Exceptions ALTERNATE CASE 1: VALIDITY CHECK (Optional) – A validity check confirms the reachability of the callback endpoint, checking that the publisher has permission to reach the consumer through a TLS connection. If a validity check is performed AND it fails, this would lead to Fail Case 2 (Connectivity Issue). SUCCESS: The publisher has the subscriber call-back (a fully qualified URL), and it is persisted. The publisher has created its own internal association for subscription which includes the consumer subscription identifier, the call-back URL and Post-conditions subscription filter. FAILURE: The performance subscription operation has failed. See the exception cases. Traceability REQ-ORC-O2-15, REQ-ORC-O2-37, REQ-ORC-O2-38
> NOTE: The general event Subscribe pattern is defined in clause 5.9 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 015 and clause 4.6.2 of
3GPP TS 29.501 [13]. An example of this is in clause 7.5.4 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 for Performance Management subscribe operation with filtering. Examples of Performance Management operations applied to Network Service objects are described in (stage 2) clause 7.5 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [16].

#### 3.8.2.3 UML Sequence Diagram

### 3.8.3 Performance Measurement Event Notification Reporting Use Case

#### 3.8.3.1 High Level Description
In the context of O-RAN Cloud managed systems, performance measurements can be transmitted by one of three mechanisms: event notification(s), streaming based reporting, or file-based reporting. The performance management subscription use case defined the service connection end point where the events are sent to in the subscription filter.
- EVENT NOTIFICATIONS – Event based reporting would send individual events to a subscriber and a
connection is opened each time a notification is to be sent. Non-real time performance measurements could use event-notification reporting mechanisms.
- STREAMING BASED REPORTING – Streaming is typically used for a continuous session to send performance
measurement data. For streaming, the connection is opened and kept open without having to renegotiate.
- FILE REPORTING – Off-line, or non-real time performance measurements could use file-based or event-
notification reporting mechanisms. The SMO is expected to support all three of the above mechanisms. However, any given IMS (O-Cloud) implementation may not support all three. This use case will cover performance measurement event notification reporting to send performance data. An entity that subscribes to these performance measurement event notifications will get an event or callback invoked for each reporting message. Notification reports are based on a subscription. The performance management subscription determines three things:
- REPORTING FREQUENCY – The subscription filter indicates the reporting frequency when data is included in
a report. The subscription filter establishes the trigger mechanism during the subscription that trigger when the callback would be invoked.
- METHOD & FORMAT – The method & format are specified in the subscription filter. The method of delivery is
event notifications, streaming based reporting, or file reporting mechanisms. The format being the encoding scheme used for the payload. Formats will be defined in the data model.
- ITEMS TO REPORT - It is expected each criterion define: a list of PM Jobs and their lists of measures that are of
interest to report. Event based notification would be utilized for low frequency and low volume of reporting since a session is re- established with the sending of each event. At higher data volumes a continuous session would be more efficient. See the streaming reporting use case for more details. There are three basic exception cases:
- CONNECTION LOST – If connectivity between the subscriber and the publisher (IMS) is lost, a connection
would not be able to be opened. There are implementation considerations such as: how long data is held for, recovery of the connection, backing up data, preventing data storms upon recovery, and management after recovery.
- DATA UNAVAILABLE – This exception occurs when the performance measurement data is not available in the
O-Cloud on the IMS when it should be reported. This results in a missed timing window when data was expected, but it was not available. In the interface, it would be expected the notification would indicate data was unavailable. There are implementation considerations such as: O-Cloud failures, IMS failures, data recovery, and data synchronization.
- PM JOB FAILURES & ISSUES – If the PM Job is unable to perform its function. If there are failures or issues
with the PM Job(s) which might result in data being unavailable it is expected that there would alarms that would be raised by the IMS. This results in data being unavailable.

#### 3.8.3.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> USE CASE EVOLUTION / SPECIFICATION Related STAGE Use Use Case Title Performance Measurement Event Notification Reporting (IMS) Use Case The following goals for this use case are: SEND EVENTS – To report performance data through an event-based reporting Goal mechanism to a subscriber. CONNECTION – To establish a connection to the subscriber to send performance data. SMO (FOCOM) – The FOCOM within the SMO is used in this use case to represent any consumer of performance measurement data. Actors and Roles IMS – The IMS within the O-Cloud is used to represent any publisher of the performance measurement data. It is assumed that performance management subscription has been established. Assumptions It is also assumed that the Performance Measurement (PM) Job Creation use case has successfully completed. CONNECTIVITY – The Subscriber has connectivity to the publisher. AUTHENTICATION – The Publisher has user credentials for the Subscriber’s end Preconditions point. PM JOB(S) ACTIVE – PM Job(s) are running and actively collecting performance measurement data. When the Performance Subscription Manager (PSM) determines that performance Begins when data should be sent DATA TO BE SENT – The Performance Subscription Manager based on the Step 1.1 (M) subscription(s) determines that performance data needs to be sent, and the subscription criteria indicate that data should be sent with an event notification. RETRIEVE DATA – The PSM retrieves the performance data from the local storage. The performance data is written by the PM Job(s) within the O-Cloud. The Step 1.2 (M) data is composed to be ready to be sent. See note 1. OPEN CONNECTION – A connection is attempted by the IMS to the subscription Step 2 (M) endpoint. The subscription endpoint is typically the SMO but could be some other entity. CONNECTION TO ENDPOINT SUCCESSFUL – The connection to the subscription Step 3 (ALT) endpoint was opened successfully, and a success response is given to the publisher (IMS). EXCEPTION: CONNECTION CANNOT BE ESTABLISHED – A connection could not be established to the endpoint. See notes 2, 3, and 4. Step 4 (ALT) SEND PERFORMANCE NOTIFICATION EVENT – A connection has been Step 5 (M) successfully established. IMS sends performance data in a performance event notification. PERFORMANCE DATA RECEIVED RESPONSE – The performance data was Step 6 (ALT) received successfully by the subscriber. A Performance Data Received response is sent to the publisher (IMS). EXCEPTION: RECEIVER REJECTED REQUEST – The receiver (subscriber) is indicating to the publisher (IMS) that it has rejected the data. This might occur with loss of user privilege. Translations of the data type or not following the proper data format may result in this exception. Conversion of the data was improper. Format rejected. For example, Step 7 (ALT) yang data requested, json sent. This exception is suggested to be logged; however, it is left up to the implementation if it is logged. In the received rejected data the post-condition is that the subscriber likely suspends the job. The subscription exists, but data cannot be sent. Ends When This Use Case ends when either the Performance Measurement Event Notification has been sent successfully, or one of the two Exception cases has been encountered – Connection would not be established, or the receiver rejected the data. EXCEPTION: CONNECTION CANNOT BE ESTABLISHED – In this case, a connection to the subscriber endpoint was attempted but could not be established. Exceptions EXCEPTION: RECEIVER REJECTED REQUEST – In this case, the subscriber has indicated that it is rejecting the data. SUCCESSFUL – A successful post condition is that a connection is successfully opened. The performance measurement notification event has been sent and then the connection closed. Post-conditions FAILURE – The use case may end with a post-condition where it encountered one of the two exceptions. If the connection was unable to be established, attempts to reopen the connection might be tried. In the received rejected data the post- condition is that the subscriber likely suspends the job. The subscription exists, but data cannot be sent. Traceability [REQ-ORC-O2-39]
> NOTE 1: It might be possible that the resource might be unavailable, and objects are deleted and data from the
resource are not available. This would be incorporated into the data to be sent.
> NOTE 2: It is expected that most IMS implements would log a fault would be logged in this case by the IMS.
> NOTE 3: A dead subscription endpoint might be encountered. In this case, a retry interval might be specified; after
which it will attempt to reopen a connection. A configuration for a set number of attempts might also be used. However, it is left up to implementation for a specific solution.
> NOTE 4: This exception is suggested to be logged; however, it is left up to the implementation if it is logged.

#### 3.8.3.3 UML Sequence Diagram

### 3.8.4 Performance Measurement Streaming Reporting Use Case

#### 3.8.4.1 High Level Description
In the context of O-RAN Cloud managed systems, performance measurements can be transmitted by one of three mechanisms: active collection by a consumer, active push by a producer (e.g. streaming-based reporting), and/or file- based reporting. The performance management subscription use case defines the service connection end point where the events are sent to in the subscription filter. Both active push and active collection have similar purposes, but the active control is with either the producer or consumer.
- ACTIVE PUSH BY A PRODUCER – A producer (IMS) could send performance data through pushing data to a
consumer. At least two options may be identified: o STREAMING – First is where a connection between consumer & producer persists between the data reports which is like 3GPP streaming reporting (3GPP TS28.532 Clause 11.5). For streaming, the connection is typically opened and kept open without having to renegotiate. Streaming is used to send a flow of performance measurement data bursts. Once the WebSocket is opened, the meta- data about the streams is exchanged, the consumer can then receive the serialized data. The point is that meta-data does not need to be exchanged with every data burst. o EVENT NOTIFICATIONS – The second option is by event notifications, where a new connection is reestablished between a consumer and producer for each data reporting. This is like how 5GC SBA works (3GPP TS23.501, TS23.502 services). The data is sent as a payload of a notification. The major difference is in the overhead associated with the notification because even to report a small amount data requires the header and establishing a connection.
- ACTIVE COLLECTION BY A CONSUMER – The consumer could also actively collect data from a producer.
o CONFIGURATION MANAGEMENT READ ONLY ATTRIBUTES – Reuse of configuration management approach where attribute conveying the value of performance data is read by the consumer like any other configuration management attribute. o DATA SCRAPING – Use of data scraping common to cloud native implementations where a collector reads the data from a pre-defined URI.
- FILE BASED REPORTING – File based reporting is not used for real-time, historically it is used for low-priority
or background collection for large amounts of performance data. The file-based reporting has potential options: file upload by the producer and file download by the consumer following a file ready notification. o FILE UPLOAD BY PRODUCER – There is not an artificial delay, the data is reported whenever it is available. The shortfall is that it involves action by the producer. o FILE DOWNLOAD BY CONSUMER – It removes the burden from the producer, but may rely upon either periodic polling, or notification from the producer about the data being ready for download. The latter case is how 3GPP file-based reporting working in 3GPP TS28.532 Clause 11.6; and ETSI ISG NFV specifications (IFA008, IFA013). The SMO is expected to support all three of the above mechanisms. However, any given IMS (O-Cloud) implementation may not support all three. To stream performance measurements, a connection session is established between the IMS as a publisher and a subscriber (FOCOM at the SMO). While the connection persists, performance data would be transmitted while it matches the subscription filter. Performance Data is sent to the subscriber endpoint based on the subscription filter. The PM Jobs collect performance data and store it locally. When the subscription indicates when data would be sent, the Performance Subscription Manager (PSM) within the IMS retrieves data. Then, the PSM formats it and sends it in a notification event in a stream. Thus, streaming-based reporting sends performance data to a subscriber endpoint based on a subscription. The subscription filter may give an interval or specify a trigger. Each element may have a criterion that determines when it is sent.

#### 3.8.4.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> USE CASE EVOLUTION / SPECIFICATION Related STAGE Use Use Case Title Performance Measurement Streaming Reporting Use Case This Use Case describes Performance Measurement Streaming Reporting. Performance Measurement data is sent periodically or triggered as specified by the subscription filter. The connections are kept open for the duration of a streaming session. Goal This use case has the following goals:
- If a connection is not already opened, then open a connection to report
streaming performance data. See note 1.
- Send a series of performance measurement data through the opened connection
based on the subscription filter. SMO (FOCOM) – The FOCOM within the SMO is used in this use case to represent any consumer of performance measurement data. Actors and Roles IMS – The IMS within the O-Cloud is used to represent any publisher of the performance measurement data. SUBSCRIPTION EXISTS - It is assumed that performance management subscription has been established. Assumptions PM JOBS - It is also assumed that the Performance Measurement (PM) Job create use case has successfully completed. CONNECTIVITY – The Subscriber has connectivity to the Publisher. AUTHENTICATION – The Publisher has user credentials for the Subscriber’s end Preconditions point. PM JOB(S) ACTIVE – PM Job(s) are running and actively collecting performance measurement data. This use case begins when the subscription filter at the IMS indicates that a streaming performance data session should be opened. -or- Begins when This use case begins when the subscriber initiates a streaming session. DATA TO BE SENT – The Performance Subscription Manager (PSM) based on the subscription(s) determines that performance data needs to be sent, and the Step 1.1 (M) subscription filter indicates that data should be sent with a performance measurement streaming reporting. RETRIEVE DATA – The PSM retrieves the performance data from the local storage. The performance data is written by the PM Job(s) within the O-Cloud. The data is Step 1.2 (M) composed to be ready to be sent. See notes 2, 3, 4, and 5. PUBLISHER INITIATED SESSION CONNECTION Step 2.1 (ALT1) OPEN CONNECTION – If Publisher (IMS) does not already have a connection to the Subscriber (FOCOM), then IMS attempts to open a connection to the subscription endpoint. The Subscriber is typically the SMO but could be some other entity. PUBLISHER INITIATED SESSION CONNECTION Step 2.2 (ALT1) CONNECTION TO ENDPOINT SUCCESSFUL – The connection to the subscription endpoint was opened successfully, and a success response is given to the publisher (IMS). PUBLISHER INITIATED SESSION CONNECTION EXCEPTION: CONNECTION CANNOT BE ESTABLISHED – A connection could not be established to the subscription endpoint. See note 6. Step 2.3 (ALT1) In this case, the use case ends. See notes 7 and 8. SUBSCRIBER INITIATED SESSION CONNECTION Step 3.1 (ALT2) OPEN CONNECTION – If FOCOM does not already have a connection to the Publisher (IMS), then FOCOM attempts to open a connection to the Publisher endpoint. SUBSCRIBER INITIATED SESSION CONNECTION Step 3.2 (ALT2) CONNECTION TO ENDPOINT SUCCESSFUL – The connection to the subscription endpoint was opened successfully, and a success response is given to the Subscriber (FOCOM). SUBSCRIBER INITIATED SESSION CONNECTION EXCEPTION: CONNECTION CANNOT BE ESTABLISHED – A connection could not be established to the Publisher endpoint. Step 3.3 (ALT2) In this case, the use case ends. See notes 9 and 10. SEND PERFORMANCE STREAM – A connection has been successfully established or a connection already exists between the Publisher and Subscriber. Step 4 (M) The IMS sends performance data in a performance stream. PERFORMANCE DATA RECEIVED RESPONSE – The performance data was Step 5 (ALT) received successfully by the Subscriber. A Performance Data Received response is sent to the Publisher (IMS). EXCEPTION: RECEIVER REJECTED REQUEST – The receiver (subscriber) is indicating to the Publisher (IMS) that it has rejected the data. This might occur with loss of user privilege. Translations of the data type or not following the proper data format may result in this exception. Conversion of the data was improper. Format rejection might also result in this exception. For example, yang data requested, however json sent. Step 6 (ALT) This exception is suggested to be logged; however, it is left up to the implementation if it is logged. In the received rejected data, the post-condition is that the subscriber likely suspends the subscription. The subscription exists, but data cannot be sent. See note 11. This Use Case ends when either the Performance Event data has been successfully Ends When streamed, or one of the two Exception cases has been encountered: connection would not be established, or the receiver rejected the data. EXCEPTION: CONNECTION CANNOT BE ESTABLISHED – In this case, a persistent connection to the Subscriber endpoint did not exist and was attempted but could not be established (in the publisher-initiated case). Also, if a connection to the Exceptions publisher endpoint could not be established (in the subscriber-initiated case). EXCEPTION: RECEIVER REJECTED REQUEST – In this case, the Subscriber has indicated that it is rejecting the data. SUCCESSFUL – If a connection did not already exist, A successful post condition is that a connection is successfully opened. Then, the performance has been streamed. The connection is kept open. Post-conditions FAILURE – The use case may end with a post-condition where it encountered one of the two exceptions. If the connection was unable to be established, attempts to reopen the connection might be tried. In the receiver rejected data exception case, the post-condition is that the Subscriber likely suspends the job. The subscription exists, but data cannot be sent. See note 12. Traceability REQ-ORC-O2-40, REQ-ORC-O2-41
> NOTE 1: Recovery from a failed attempt to open a connection is left to implementation.
> NOTE 2: It might be possible that the resource might be unavailable, and objects are deleted and data from the
resource are not available. This would be incorporated into the data to be sent.
> NOTE 3: There are two alt series of steps:
Alt 1 – steps 2.1, 2.2, and 2.3. This describes a publisher-initiated session connection. In this case, the Publisher opens a permanent connection to the Subscriber. Alt 2 – steps 3.1, 3.2, and 3.3. This describes a subscriber-initiated session connection. In this case, the Subscriber opens a permanent connection to the Publisher.
> NOTE 4: Only one of the Alt series of steps will be used in any given cloud implementation. They are both
equivalently viable options.
> NOTE 5: An alternative pattern would be that the upon evaluation of the subscription, a session would be established
immediately before any data is needed to be sent. This would be left up to implementation.
> NOTE 6: It is expected that most IMS implementations would log a fault. This exception is suggested to be logged;
however, it is left up to the implementation if it is logged.
> NOTE 7: A dead subscription endpoint might be encountered. In this case, a retry interval might be specified; after
which it will attempt to reopen a connection. A configuration for a set number of attempts might also be used. However, it is left up to implementation for a specific solution.
> NOTE 8: The protocol that opens the connection should have a means whereby the Publisher (IMS) can assess that
a connection could not be established.
> NOTE 9: It is expected that most FOCOM implementations would log a fault. This exception is suggested to be
logged; however, it is left up to the implementation if it is logged.
> NOTE 10: The protocol that opens the connection should have a means whereby the Subscriber (FOCOM) can
assess that a connection could not be established.
> NOTE 11: This is left to implementation.
> NOTE 12: This is left to implementation.

#### 3.8.4.3 UML Sequence Diagram

### 3.8.5 Performance Measurement File Reporting Use Case

#### 3.8.5.1 High Level Description
In the context of O-RAN Cloud managed systems, performance measurements can be transmitted by one of three mechanisms: active collection by a consumer, active push by a producer (e.g. streaming-based reporting), and/or file- based reporting. The SMO is expected to support all three of the above mechanisms. However, any given IMS (O-Cloud) implementation may not support all three. Performance Measurement File Reporting has two paradigms: Pull Paradigm - If a consumer wants to retrieve Performance Data file(s), the callback attribute is given in the Performance Subscription Create operation. When the Performance Data file(s) are ready, the callback is used by the producer as the endpoint where the File Ready notification is sent to inform the consumer that the Performance Data file(s) are ready to be pulled from the O-Cloud. Push Paradigm - In addition to the callback attribute, the consumer will also provide a Remote File Location attribute in the Performance Subscription Create operation that the producer can upload the Performance Data file(s) to. Here, the callback is the endpoint where the File Ready notification is sent to inform the consumer that the Performance Datra file(s) have been uploaded to the requested location. What happens to the file(s) after the producer sends the Performance Data file(s) to the remote file location is implementation specific.

#### 3.8.5.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> USE CASE EVOLUTION / SPECIFICATION Related STAGE Use Use Case Title Performance Measurement File Reporting Use Case This Use Case describes Performance Measurement File Reporting. Performance Measurement data is sent periodically or triggered as specified by the subscription filter. Performance Measurement File reporting has goals based on the two different file reporting cases: Goal - PUSH Paradigm – In this case, the goal is for the Performance Subscription Manager (PSM) within the IMS to send the Performance Data file(s) to the requested location and then notify the consumer that the Performance Data file(s) are available.
- PULL Paradigm – In this case, the goal is for the SMO to eventually retrieve the
Performance Data file(s) from the O-Cloud. This is done after a File Ready notification is sent to the subscriber, typically the SMO, that the Performance Data file(s) are available. SMO (FOCOM) – The FOCOM within the SMO is used in this use case to represent any consumer of Performance Data file(s) containing performance measurement data. Actors and Roles IMS – The IMS within the O-Cloud orchestrates the preparation of the Performance Data file(s) and notifying the SMO that the Performance Data file(s) are available. FILE FORMATING – The IMS formats the performance data in files that are compliant to the O-RAN WG6 O-CLOUD-IM [23]. The formatting is not specified in the present document version. Assumptions FILE SIZE – The payload size of the performance measurement file is not specified in the present document version. CONNECTIVITY – The SMO (FOCOM) has connectivity to the IMS. AUTHENTICATION – The IMS has user credentials for the SMO (FOCOM) end point. Preconditions PM JOB(S) ACTIVE – PM Job(s) are running and actively collecting performance measurement data. SUBSCRIPTION – A performance management subscription has been established. This applies for both the Push and Pull paradigms. The use case begins when the subscription filter at the IMS determines that Begins when performance data should be made available to a consumer in a file-based format. DATA TO BE SENT – Based on the subscription filter the Performance Subscription Step 1 (M) Manager (PSM) determines that performance data needs to be reported using performance measurement file reporting. RETRIEVE DATA – The PSM retrieves the performance data from the local storage. Step 2 (M) The performance data is written by the PM Job(s) within the O-Cloud. The data is composed into Performance Data file(s). See note 1. PUSH PARADIGM – The Performance Data file(s) are uploaded to the remore Step 3.1 (ALT) location requested by the consumer. Step 3.2 (ALT) PULL PARADIGM – The Performance Data file(s) are stored. OPEN CONNECTION – The producer (IMS) opens a connection to the consumer (FOCOM). The producer opens a connection to a consumer endpoint based on the Step 4 (M) subscription(s). The consumer, or subscriber, is typically the SMO but could be some other entity. CONNECTION TO ENDPOINT SUCCESSFUL – The connection to the consumer Step 5.1 (ALT) (subscription) endpoint was opened successfully, and a success response is given to the producer (publisher, IMS). EXCEPTION: CONNECTION CANNOT BE ESTABLISHED – A connection could not Step 5.2 (ALT) be established to the consumer endpoint. See notes 2, 3, and 4. SEND FILE READY NOTIFICATION – The producer (IMS) sends a File Ready notification to the consumer (FOCOM) over the O2 interface. This indicates that the Step 6 (M) requested Performance Data file(s) are available. See notes 5 and 6. PULL PARADIGM Step 7.1 (ALT 1) RETRIEVE PERFORMANCE DATA FILE – The consumer (FOCOM) retrieves the Performance Data file(s) from the endpoint given by the producer (IMS). PULL PARADIGM Step 7.2 (ALT 1) PERFORMANCE DATA FILE RECEIVED – An acknowledgement is sent from the consumer (FOCOM) to the producer (IMS) that the Performance Data file(s) have been successfully received. PULL PARADIGM EXCEPTION: INVALID FORMAT – In this exception case, the Performance Data file(s) are not following the proper data format. This might result in the improper conversion of the Performance Data. For example, yang data requested, however Step 7.3 (ALT 1) json sent. This exception is suggested to be logged; however, it is left up to the implementation if it is logged. If this exception is encountered, the use case ends. PUSH PARADIGM Step 8 (ALT 2) What happens to the Performance Data file(s) after the consumer is notified that the file(s) are available is implementation specific. This Use Case ends when a File Ready notification is sent to the consumer (Push Paradigm) and when the Performance Data file(s) have been successfully retrieved by the consumer (Pull Paradigm). Ends When The Use Case may end with if one of the two Exception cases have been encountered: connection would not be established, or an invalid format. EXCEPTION: CONNECTION CANNOT BE ESTABLISHED – In this case, a connection between the consumer and producer could not be established. Specific implementations may log this fault and reattempt to open the connection. If this exception is encountered, the use case ends. Exceptions EXCEPTION: INVALID FORMAT – In this exception case, the Performance Data file(s) are not following the proper data format. If this exception is encountered, the use case ends. SUCCESSFUL – In a successful post condition, a connection is successfully opened. The producer (IMS) sends a File Ready notification to the consumer (FOCOM) over the O2 interface. In case of the Pull Paradigm, the consumer has retrieved the Performance Data file(s). Post-conditions FAILURE – The use case may end with a post-condition where it encountered one of the two exceptions. If the connection was unable to be established, attempts to reopen the connection might be tried based on implementation. In the receiver invalid format exception case, the post-condition is that the files were not sent, and the use case ends. Traceability REQ-ORC-O2-42, REQ-ORC-O2-43, REQ-ORC-O2-44
> NOTE 1: It might be possible that the resource might be unavailable, and objects are deleted and data from the
resource are not available. This would be incorporated into the data to be sent. If the resource was out of service for the collection time period, the suspect flag might be raised in the PM data. If the PM job was deleted or gone, the counter would be listed in the deleted measures list so that it is still accounted for in the report by the PSM.
> NOTE 2: It is expected and suggested that most IMS implementations would log a fault for this exception. However, it
is left up to the implementation if it is logged. If this exception is encountered, the use case ends.
> NOTE 3: A dead consumer endpoint might be encountered. In this case, a retry interval might be specified; after
which it will attempt to reopen a connection. A configuration for a set number of attempts might also be used. However, it is left up to implementation for a specific implementation.
> NOTE 4: The protocol that opens the connection should have a means whereby the producer (IMS) can assess that a
connection could not be established.
> NOTE 5: There are two alt series of steps:
 Alt 1 – steps 7.1, 7.2, and 7.3. This describes the PULL Paradigm, where the consumer retrieves the file(s) from the O-Cloud after receiving a File Ready notification by the producer  Alt 2 – step 8. This describes the PUSH Paradigm, where the consumer actions after receiving a File Ready notification from the Producer are not specified.
> NOTE 6: Only one of the Alt series of steps will be used in any given cloud implementation. They are both
equivalently viable options.

#### 3.8.5.3 UML Sequence Diagram

### 3.8.6 Performance Measurement Job Query Use Case

#### 3.8.6.1 High Level Description
PM Jobs collect performance data on O-Cloud infrastructure resources. Preinstalled Performance Measurement Jobs (PM Jobs) are started on O-Cloud genesis. Additionally, PM Jobs can be created through a request from a consumer (see the PM Job Creation use case). This use case describes a flow where a consumer can query for PM Jobs in the O-Cloud. In the query request, a consumer can specify a query filter for the state of a PM Job(s) of interest. Supported PM Job states include active, suspended, and deprecated defined as follows: ACTIVE STATE – A PM Job that has been created and is currently running is defined to be in the Active state. SUSPENDED STATE – A PM Job that has been created, and through a request to stop measurement collection is defined to be in the suspended state. See the PM Job Suspend use case for more details [NOTE: for future addition]. DEPRECATED STATE – As a result of a PM job deletion request, the PM job is defined to be in the deprecated state. See the PM Job Delete use case (3.8.7).

#### 3.8.6.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> USE CASE EVOLUTION / SPECIFICATION STAGE Related Use Use Case Title Performance Measurement Job (PM Job) Query Use Case The goal of the PM Job Query Use Case is to provide a consumer information about PM Jobs based on the request query filter. This includes the following goals to allow a consumer to perform: PM Job Query requests with a query filter for PM Job IDs, PM Job status, and PM Job states. Goal PM Job Query for all active PM Jobs including Preinstalled PM Jobs. PM Job Query for specific PM Jobs indicated with specific IDs in the query filter. PM Job Queries for PM Jobs in the Suspended State. PM Job Queries for PM Jobs in the Deprecated State as a result of delete operations that have not yet been purged. O-Cloud Operator – The O-Cloud Operator is a consumer (or entity) using or interfacing with the SMO (FOCOM). SMO (FOCOM) – The FOCOM within the SMO is used in this use case to represent Actors and Roles any consumer of the PM Job Query information. IMS – The IMS within the O-Cloud is used to represent any provider of the PM Job Query information. Assumptions There are no assumptions. Connectivity – The producer has end-to-end connectivity to the consumer. Preconditions O-Cloud Operational & Registered – The O-Cloud is installed, operating, and registered with the SMO. Begins when This Use Case begins when a consumer initiates a PM Job Query operation. PM Job Query Request –

# A PM Job Query Request is initiated by the O-Cloud Operator towards the Step 1 (M) consumer (FOCOM/SMO). The PM Job Query contains a filter that specifies the PM
Jobs that the operator is interested in. The PM Job Query filter criteria include but are not limited to PM Job owner, PM Job IDs, PM Job state (e.g., suspended, active, deprecated). PM Job Query Request – The PM Job Query request with its attendant criteria is passed from the SMO to the IMS. Step 2 (M) Privilege – The connection authentication is verified by the IMS. The consumer identification and privileges are verified for the requestor to be able to perform the PM Job Query operation. ALT Successful Query – The IMS authenticates the connection. The IMS processes the PM Job Query operation. If the PM Job Query was successful, the producer (IMS) passes to the consumer Step 3 (ALT) (FOCOM/SMO) the results matching the PM Job query criteria over the O2 IMS interface.
> NOTE: It is possible to formulate a PM Job Query that has nothing matching the
criteria; for example, a query for all suspended PM Jobs might be requested; and if there were no suspended PM Jobs, the successful Query would return an empty payload back. ALT EXCEPTION: Query of a Non-Existent PM Job – This exception is encountered when a PM Job Query is performed with a query filter Step 4 (ALT) that requests for a non-existent PM Job. This is a case where the query criteria returned no matching PM Jobs. The Use Case ends. ALT EXCEPTION: Unexpected Condition – A response is sent to the requesting entity from the SMO, that the IMS encountered Step 5 (ALT) an unexpected condition processing the request. The Use Case ends. This use case ends when the query on PM Job has successfully been Ends when accomplished, or one of the two exception cases have been encountered. Query of a Non-Existent PM Job – This exception is encountered when a PM Job Query criteria results in a non-existent PM Job. Exceptions Unexpected Condition – This exception occurs when an unexpected condition encountered. Success – The requested (list) of PM Job(s) and their corresponding IDs, state & status matching the PM Job Query request filter are returned to the requestor or consumer. Post-conditions Failure – The request was not able to be completed. No other “clean up” needs to occur. An exception notification has been issued. Traceability [REQ-ORC-O2-56], [REQ-ORC-O2-57]

#### 3.8.6.3 UML Sequence Diagram

### 3.8.7 Performance Measurement Job Delete Use Case

#### 3.8.7.1 High Level Description
PM Jobs collect performance data on O-Cloud infrastructure resources. Preinstalled Performance Measurement Jobs (PM Jobs) are started on O-Cloud genesis. Additionally, PM Jobs can be created through a request from a consumer (see the PM Job Creation use case). This use case describes a flow where a consumer requests for PM Job(s) to be deleted. A consumer can specify the PM Job(s) to be deleted by the associated PM Job Identifiers (IDs) which can be obtained through a PM Job query or PM Job create. DEPRECATED STATE – As a result of a PM Job deletion request, the PM Job(s) go into the deprecated state. Deprecated PM Job(s) records are held for a retention period after which they are purged from the system. It is expected that the retention period can be configured. PM Job(s) stay in the deprecated state until they are purged; thus, PM Job(s) cannot be “resurrected” once they are in the deprecated state. SUSPEND BEFORE DELETE – Only suspended PM Jobs can be deleted. A consumer or owner needs to first suspend the PM Job(s) before they can be deleted. Preinstalled PM Jobs cannot be suspended by a typical consumer request. See the PM Job suspend use case for more details [NOTE 1: use case to be added in future]. PREINSTALLED PM JOBS – Preinstalled PM Jobs are unlike normal PM Jobs. Rather, Preinstalled PM Jobs may be deleted by IMS software update, or by privilege settings. PM JOB OWNERSHIP – It is expected that a PM Job has one owner though it might have more than one consumer.

# A User (Operator or Entity) has a Role, and that Role has Privilege/Permissions associated with. Thus, the role may
have the permissions to affect the state or delete a PM Job. Preinstalled PM Jobs also have owners. NOTE 2: Security considerations and analysis from the O-RAN Security Requirements specification [18] is FFS. NOTIFICATION AFTER DELETION – The PM Job deletion operation may affect subscriber(s) that were getting data from the deleted PM Job(s). One of the consequences of this use case is that the subscriber(s) are notified if they had been subscribing to data collected by those PM Job(s) that were deleted. They choose to subscribe to job change notification, or they may take action after getting a report that indicates that those affected measurements were deleted.
> NOTE 3: A O-Cloud Operator may wish to minimize the computational overhead within the O-Cloud and thus may
delete lower priority PM Job(s).

#### 3.8.7.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> USE CASE EVOLUTION / SPECIFICATION STAGE Related Use Use Case Title PM Job Delete Use Case (O2 IMS) The goal of the PM Job Delete Use Case is to enable a consumer or entity to delete existing PM Job(s). This includes the following goals to allow a consumer to perform: As a result of a PM Job Deletion request, the PM Job(s) go into the deprecated Goal state. A check that the requested PM job(s) are in the suspended state is performed before the PM Job deletion request is started. PM Job Delete operation can request for specific PM Job(s) with their corresponding PM Job ID(s) to be deleted. O-Cloud Operator – The O-Cloud Operator is a consumer (or entity) using or interfacing with the SMO (FOCOM). SMO (FOCOM) – The FOCOM within the SMO is the actor who issues the PM Job Actors and Roles delete request over the O2imsinterface. IMS – The IMS within the O-Cloud processes the PM Job Delete request and receives the request over the O2imsinterface. Assumptions There are no assumptions. Connectivity – The producer has end-to-end connectivity to the consumer. Preconditions O-Cloud Operational & Registered – The O-Cloud is installed, operating, and registered with the SMO. Begins when This use case begins with either: Operator Request – This use case begins when a O-Cloud Operator requests for a PM Job delete. Autonomously Triggered – When the SMO autonomously determines that PM Job(s) need to be deleted. PM Job Delete Request (Operator Initiated) (ALT) –

# A PM Job Delete Request is initiated by the O-Cloud Operator towards the consumer (FOCOM/SMO). The PM Job Delete request identifies the PM Job(s) that
the operator wants to delete. Step 1 (ALT) Privilege – The connection authentication is verified by the IMS. The consumer identification and privileges are verified for the requestor to be able to perform the PM Job Delete operation.
> NOTE 1: It is possible to delete a PM Job(s) in the deprecated state. This would
return a success; however, it would not result in any action being taken. PM Job Delete Request (Autonomously Initiated) (ALT) – Step 2 (ALT) The PM Job Delete request is initiated autonomously from the SMO. The SMO has some trigger which initiates a PM Job Delete request for PM Job(s) to be deleted. PM Job Delete Request – The PM Job Delete request is sent from the SMO to the IMS. The following are the actions that the IMS does to process the PM job delete request for the specified PM Job(s) to be deleted: Step 3 (M) The IMS performs a check that the PM Job(s) to be deleted are in the suspended state.
> NOTE 2: it is expected that the SMO uses PM Job identifier to identify the PM job
activity to be cleaned up for the PM Jobs to be deleted. If the PM Job has an embedded subscription, the PM Job deletion operation causes the associated PM subscription to be automatically deleted. PM Job Delete Response (Success) – Step 4 (ALT) The PM Job Delete returns an asynchronous response for the successful case. PM Job State Change Notification Step 5 (ALT) The requestor is informed through a state change notification event of the state and status of the PM Job(s) that were deleted with the request. ALT EXCEPTION: Delete of non-suspended PM Job(s) – This exception occurs when a PM Job delete requests for the deletion of non- suspended PM Job(s). A response is sent to the requesting entity (SMO), that the deletion request for PM Job(s) not in a suspended state is an exception case. The IMS will include the PM Job ID and consumer subscription ID for the PM Job in Step 6 (ALT) the response and notification of the PM Job(s) deleted. The Use Case ends in this exception case.
> NOTE 3: The PM Job(s) need to be first placed in suspended mode so that PM jobs
are not accidentally mass deleted since the operation cannot be reversed once it is processed. See requirement [REQ-ORC-O2-60] ALT EXCEPTION: Delete of non-existent PM Job(s) – This exception occurs when a PM Job Delete requests for the deletion of non- existent PM Job(s). The request will not be able to be processed because the PM Job(s) does not exist. A response is sent to the requesting entity (SMO), that a Step 7 (ALT) request for the deletion of a non-existent PM Job is invalid. The Use Case ends when this exception case is encountered.
> NOTE 4: A request for a PM Job delete, that had been deprecated (previously
deleted) and then subsequently purged, would result in this exception. ALT EXCEPTION: Unexpected Condition – A response is sent to the requesting entity from the SMO, that the IMS encountered Step 8 (ALT) an unexpected condition processing the request. The Use Case ends. Request Response – Step 9 (M) The PM Job Delete Status is given from the consumer SMO (FOCOM) to the O- Cloud Operator. This use case ends when the PM Job Delete operation has successfully been Ends when accomplished, or one of the exception cases have been encountered. Delete of non-suspended PM Job(s) – This exception is encountered when a PM Job Delete requests for the deletion of non-suspended PM Job(s). Delete of non-existent PM Job(s) – This exception is encountered when a PM Job Exceptions Delete requests for the deletion of non-existent PM Job(s). Unexpected Condition – This exception occurs when an unexpected condition encountered. Success – The requested (list) of PM Job(s) matching the PM Job Delete request are returned to the requestor or consumer. Post-conditions Failure – The request was not able to be completed. No other “clean up” needs to occur. Traceability [REQ-ORC-O2-58], [REQ-ORC-O2-59], [REQ-ORC-O2-60], [REQ-ORC-O2-84]

#### 3.8.7.3 UML Sequence Diagram

### 3.8.8 Performance Measurement Job Update Use Case

#### 3.8.8.1 High Level Description
PM Jobs collect performance data on O-Cloud infrastructure resources. Preinstalled Performance Measurement Jobs (PM Jobs) are started on O-Cloud genesis. Additionally, PM Jobs can be created through a request from a consumer (see the PM Job Creation use case). This use case describes Performance Measurement Job (PM Job) updates that can occur from one of two reasons as described: RESOURCE CHANGES – Resource changes can cause PM Job(s) to update. PM Job(s) collect data from O-Cloud infrastructure resources. When O-Cloud resources are updated, added, or deleted that a PM Job depends on, the PM Job update use case may be invoked. Resources changes can impact the PM Job measure criteria which include the measured Resources, collected Measures, qualified Resource Types, and/or Resource scope criteria which may trigger a PM Job update. It is possible that the result of the evaluation may not alter the PM Job(s). UPDATE BY REQUEST – A consumer (operator or entity) may also request for an update to PM Job(s) through a request operation. A consumer may request for data collection updates for PM Job(s). For example, different data to be collected from O-Cloud infrastructure resources. This may occur autonomously from a consumer, for example through a policy trigger. Only a consumer with the proper permissions that own the PM Job(s) can update the PM Job.

#### 3.8.8.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> USE CASE EVOLUTION / SPECIFICATION STAGE Related Use Use Case Title PM Job Update Use Case (O2 IMS) The goal of the PM Job Update Use Case is to enable a consumer or entity to update an existing PM Job information such as the new measured resources or collected measures. As subordinate goals, the O-Cloud allows a consumer to perform these actions: Goal An update of the measure selection criteria which in turn updates the measured Resources, collected Measures, qualified Resource Types, measure selection criteria, and/or Resource scope criteria. Adds, removes, or changes to the above types of things in the PM Job. O-Cloud Operator – The O-Cloud operator is a consumer (or entity) using or interfacing with the SMO (FOCOM). SMO (FOCOM) – The FOCOM within the SMO is the actor who issues the PM Job Actors and Roles Update request over the O2ims interface. IMS – The IMS within the O-Cloud processes the PM Job Update request and receives the request over the O2ims interface. Assumptions There are no assumptions. Connectivity – The producer (IMS) has end-to-end connectivity to the consumer (SMO/FOCOM). Preconditions O-Cloud Operational & Registered – The O-Cloud is installed, operating, and registered with the SMO. Begins when This use case begins with either: Operator Request – When an O-Cloud operator requests for an update to a PM Job. Autonomously Triggered – When the SMO autonomously determines that a PM Job needs to be updated. PM Job Update Request (Operator Initiated) (ALT) –
- A PM Job Update Request is initiated by the O-Cloud operator towards the
consumer (FOCOM/SMO). The PM Job Update request identifies the PM Job(s) that the operator wants to update.
- The PM Job Update request contains parameters to update via the measure
selection criteria. The measure selection criteria can change the measured Resources, collected Measures, qualified Resource Types, and/or Resource scope criteria which will be applied by the target PM Job. NOTE 1: the measure Step 1 (ALT) selection criteria are a read/write attributes whereas the others are read-only because updates to those aspects occur through the measure selection criteria. The PM Job Update request may update different aspects of the PM Job and what it is collecting. The PM Job Update operation can only be applied to active and suspended PM Jobs. The PM Job Update operation is rejected for deprecated PM Jobs.
> NOTE 2: Different PM Jobs may have different permissions based on the role of the
requestor. PM Job Update Request (Autonomously Initiated) (ALT) – The PM Job Update request is initiated autonomously from the SMO. The SMO has some trigger which initiates a PM Job Update request for a PM Job to be updated. Step 2 (ALT) The SMO may update measured Resources, collected Measures, qualified Resource Types, measure selection criteria, and/or Resource scope criteria for the target PM Job through the PM Job Update request. PM Job Update Request – Step 3 (M) The PM Job Update request is sent from the SMO to the IMS. IMS Processes PM Job Update Request – The IMS performs the following actions to process the PM Job Update Request: Existence – The IMS checks that the affected PM Job exists. Permissions – The IMS checks the ownership for the PM Job against the permissions (role) of the requestor. A PM Job has one owner. The role has the Step 4 (M) permissions to update a PM Job. A user (operator or entity) has permissions based on their role. Request Parameters – The IMS processes the parameters in the request which indicate how the PM Job should be updated. These potentially include updates to the measured Resources, collected Measures, qualified Resource Types, measure selection criteria, and/or Resource scope criteria. PM Job Update Response (Success) – Step 5 (ALT) The PM Job Update returns an asynchronous response for the successful case. PM Job Update Notification (Success) – Step 6 (ALT) Other consumers/subscribers are informed about PM Job Updates to the PM Job(s) that they are subscribing to. Step 7 (ALT) ALT EXCEPTION: Update request for non-existent PM Job – This exception occurs when a PM Job Update requests for the update of a non- existent PM Job. The request will not be able to be processed because the PM Job does not exist. A response is sent to the requesting entity (SMO), that a request for the update of a non-existent PM Job is invalid. The Use Case ends when this exception case is encountered. ALT EXCEPTION: Unexpected Condition – A response is sent to the requesting entity from the SMO, that the IMS encountered Step 8 (ALT) an unexpected condition processing the request. The Use Case ends when this exception case is encountered. UPDATE RESPONSE Step 9 (M) The PM Job Update Response is given from the consumer SMO (FOCOM) to the O-Cloud Operator This use case ends when the PM Job Update operation has successfully been Ends when accomplished, or one of the exception cases have been encountered. Update of non-existent PM Job – This exception is encountered when a PM Job Update requests for the update of a non-existent PM Job. Exceptions Unexpected Condition – This exception occurs when an unexpected condition is encountered. Success – On a successful PM Job Update operation, the requestor gets a response to their request which includes the result of the operation. Post-conditions Failure – The request was not able to be completed. No other “clean up” for this use case needs to occur within the O-Cloud or IMS. The requestor gets a response to their request indicates the failure. Traceability [REQ-ORC-O2-66], [REQ-ORC-O2-67], [REQ-ORC-O2-68]

#### 3.8.8.3 UML Sequence Diagram

### 3.8.9 Performance Measurement Job Suspend Use Case

#### 3.8.9.1 High Level Description
PM Jobs collect performance data on O-Cloud infrastructure resources. Preinstalled Performance Measurement Jobs (PM Jobs) are started on O-Cloud genesis. Additionally, PM Jobs can be created through a request from a consumer (see the PM Job Creation use case). This use case describes a flow where a Performance Measurement Job (PM jobs) is suspended. Suspending a PM Job might be done to improve system performance because PM Jobs come at the cost of system overhead and computational cycles. Suspending a PM Job will cause it to be inactive when its report timer is triggered where it would normally collect data. DORMANCY PERIODS – PM Job(s) can be suspended for a specified time period (dormancy period). A consumer may specify when PM Job(s) can be returned to normal operation. The request can either specify a dormancy filter or suspend the PM Job indefinitely (“PM Job Stop”). PM Jobs indefinitely suspended need a consumer request to resume operations. See the PM Job Resume use case. RELATION TO PM JOB DELETE OPERATION – Only suspended PM Jobs can be deleted. A consumer or owner first suspends PM Job(s) before they can be deleted. Preinstalled PM Jobs cannot be suspended by a typical consumer request. See the PM Job delete use case for more details. PM JOB OWNERSHIP – It is expected that a PM Job has one owner, though it might have more than one consumer. The role has the permissions to suspend a PM Job. A User (Operator or Entity) has a Role, and that Role has Privilege/Permissions associated with. Thus, a user (operator or entity) has permissions based on their role. Preinstalled PM Jobs also have owners. Relationship to the Security specification is FFS.

#### 3.8.9.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> USE CASE EVOLUTION / SPECIFICATION STAGE Related Use Use Case Title PM Job Suspend Use Case (O2 IMS) The goal of the PM Job Suspend Use Case is to enable a consumer (SMO) or entity to request to suspend existing PM Job. PM Job Suspend operation can request for a specific PM Job with their corresponding PM Job ID to be suspended. Goal As a result of a PM Job Suspend request goal, the requested PM Job transitions into the suspend state. O-Cloud Operator – The O-Cloud operator is a consumer (or entity) using or interfacing with the SMO (FOCOM). SMO (FOCOM) – The FOCOM within the SMO is the actor who issues the PM Job Actors and Roles Suspend request over the O2ims interface. IMS – The IMS within the O-Cloud processes the PM Job Suspend request and receives the request over the O2ims interface. Assumptions There are no assumptions. Connectivity – The producer (IMS) has end-to-end connectivity to the consumer (SMO/FOCOM). Preconditions O-Cloud Operational & Registered – The O-Cloud is installed, operating, and registered its IMS with the SMO. This use case begins with either: Operator Request – When an O-Cloud operator requests for a PM Job to be Begins when suspended. Autonomously Triggered – When the SMO autonomously determines that a PM Job needs to be suspended. PM Job Suspend request (Operator Initiated) (ALT) –

# A PM Job Suspend request is initiated by the O-Cloud operator towards the consumer (FOCOM/SMO). The PM Job Suspend request identifies the PM Job that
the operator wants to suspend. The request contains the dormancy period and dormancy filter. Step 1 (ALT) Privilege – The connection authentication is verified by the IMS. The consumer identification and privileges are verified for the requestor to be able to perform the PM Job Suspend operation.
> NOTE 1: It is possible to suspend a PM Job already in the suspend state. This
operation would return a success; however, it would not result in any action being taken. PM Job Suspend request (Autonomously Initiated) (ALT) – Step 2 (ALT) The PM Job Suspend request is initiated autonomously from the SMO. The SMO has some trigger which initiates a PM Job Suspend request for a PM Job to be suspended. PM Job Suspend request – Step 3 (M) The PM Job Suspend request is sent from the SMO to the IMS. IMS Processes PM Job Suspend request – The IMS performs the following actions to process the PM Job Suspend Request: Existence – The IMS checks that the requested PM Job exists. Permissions – The IMS checks the ownership for the PM Job against the Step 4 (M) permissions (role) of the requestor.
> NOTE 2: PM Job(s) have one owner. The role has the permissions to suspend a
PM Job. A user (operator or entity) has permissions based on their role. Dormancy – The IMS evaluates the request filter and dormancy periods. The request can specify a PM Job to be suspended for a specified time (dormancy period). The request might suspend a PM Job indefinitely (“PM Job Stop”). PM Job Suspend response (Success) – Step 5 (M) The PM Job Suspend returns an asynchronous response in the successful case. State Change Notification (Success) – Step 6 (M) The requestor is informed through a state change notification event of the state and status of the PM Job. This is sent because the state and status of the affected PM Job transition to the suspend due to a successful PM Job Suspend operation. ALT EXCEPTION: PM Job Suspend request for non-existent PM Job – This exception occurs when a PM Job Suspend requests for the suspend of a non- Step 7 (ALT) existent PM Job. The request will not be able to be processed because the PM Job does not exist. A response is sent to the requesting entity (SMO), that a request for the suspension of a non-existent PM Job is invalid. The Use Case ends when this exception case is encountered. ALT EXCEPTION: Unexpected Condition – A response is sent to the requesting entity from the IMS, that the IMS encountered Step 8 (ALT) an unexpected condition processing the request. The Use Case ends. This use case ends when the PM Job Suspend operation has successfully been Ends when accomplished, or one of the exception cases have been encountered. Suspend of non-existent PM Job(s) – This exception is encountered when a PM Job Suspend requests to suspend a non-existent PM Job(s). Exceptions Unexpected Condition – This exception occurs when an unexpected condition encountered. Success – On a successful PM Job Suspend operation, the requestor gets a response to their request which includes the results of the operation. Additionally, subscribed consumer(s) get a State Change Notification of PM Job(s) in the Post-conditions Suspend state. Failure – The request was not able to be completed. No other “clean up” needs to occur. The requestor gets a response of the failure. Traceability [REQ-ORC-O2-69], [REQ-ORC-O2-70]

#### 3.8.9.3 UML Sequence Diagram

### 3.8.10 Performance Measurement Job Resume Use Case

#### 3.8.10.1 High Level Description
PM Jobs collect performance data on O-Cloud infrastructure resources. Preinstalled Performance Measurement Jobs (PM Jobs) are started on O-Cloud genesis. Additionally, PM Jobs can be created through a request from a consumer (see the PM Job Creation use case). This use case describes resuming one Performance Measurement Job (PM Job) that has previously been suspended. See the PM Job Suspend Use case for more details. RESUMING OPERATIONS – PM Job(s) in the suspend state have had their measurement collection activity halted. The PM Job Resume operation will request that the PM Job start operations again. The PM Job will transition to the active state. The PM Job will begin measurement collection at their next scheduled collection interval period. The PM Job will continue to collect measurements based on their criteria. To change the interval times or collection behavior, a PM Job update would need to be performed. PM JOB OWNERSHIP – It is expected that a PM Job has one owner, though it might have more than one consumer. The role has the permissions to resume a PM Job. A User (Operator or Entity) has a Role, and that Role has Privilege/Permissions associated with. Thus, a user (operator or entity) has permissions based on their role. Preinstalled PM Jobs also have owners. Relationship to the Security specification is FFS.

#### 3.8.10.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> USE CASE EVOLUTION / SPECIFICATION STAGE Related Use Use Case Title PM Job Resume Use Case (O2 IMS) The goal of the PM Job Resume Use Case is to enable a consumer (SMO) or entity to request to request to resume a previously suspended PM Job. The PM Job Resume operation can be requested for a specified PM Job with its corresponding PM Job ID to be resumed. As result of a PM Job Resume request, the requested PM Job transitions into the Goal active state. Successfully resumed PM Job will start collecting data adding to any existing data sets with a time period and collection filter set for the PM Job including measured Resources, qualified Resource Types, collected Measures, and measure selection criteria. The PM Job Resume request is a single request to resume one (atomic) PM Job. O-Cloud Operator – The O-Cloud operator is a consumer (or entity) using or interfacing with the SMO (FOCOM). SMO (FOCOM) – The FOCOM within the SMO is the actor who issues the PM Job Actors and Roles Resume request over the O2ims interface. IMS – The IMS within the O-Cloud processes the PM Job Resume request and receives the request over the O2ims interface. Assumptions There are no assumptions. Connectivity – The producer (IMS) has end-to-end connectivity to the consumer (SMO/FOCOM). Preconditions O-Cloud Operational & Registered – The O-Cloud is installed, operating, and registered its IMS with the SMO. This use case begins with either: Operator Request – When an O-Cloud operator requests for a PM Job Resume Begins when operation. Autonomously Triggered – When the SMO autonomously determines that a PM Job needs to be resumed. Step 1 (ALT) PM JOB RESUME REQUEST (Operator Initiated) (ALT) –

# A PM Job Resume request is initiated by the O-Cloud operator towards the consumer (FOCOM/SMO). The PM Job Resume request specifies the PM Job that
the operator wants to resume.
> NOTE 1: Different PM Jobs may have different permissions based on the role of the
requestor. Thus, some resume requests may be rejected while others are applied.
> NOTE 2: It is possible that the requested PM Job is already in the active state. This
operation would return a success; however, it would not result in any action being taken. PM JOB RESUME REQUEST (Autonomously Initiated) (ALT) – Step 2 (ALT) The PM Job Resume request is initiated autonomously from the SMO. In this case, the SMO has a trigger which initiates a PM Job Resume request for a PM Job to be resumed. PM JOB RESUME REQUEST – Step 3 (M) The PM Job Resume request is sent from the SMO to the IMS. IMS PROCESSES PM JOB RESUME REQUEST – The IMS performs the following actions to process the PM Job Resume request: PM Job in Suspended State – The IMS checks that the requested PM Job is in suspended state. Reactivating the suspended PM Job transitioning to the active state and counters populated into the PM table. Deprecated State – The IMS checks that the requested PM Job is not in the Step 4 (M) deprecated state. The resume of a deprecated PM Job would fail with an appropriate error code. Active State – This would be an idempotent case. The operation would succeed, as the PM job is already in the outcome state. Permissions – The IMS checks the ownership for the PM Job against the permissions (role) of the requestor. PM Jobs have one owner. The role has the permissions to resume a PM Job. A user (operator or entity) has permissions based on their role. PM JOB RESUME RESPONSE (Success) – Step 5 (ALT) The PM Job Resume returns an asynchronous response for the successful case. STATE CHANGE NOTIFICIATION (Success) – The requestor and subscribed consumer(s) are informed through a state change Step 6 (ALT) notification event of the state and status of the PM Job. This is sent because the state and status of the affected PM Job transition to the active state due to a successful PM Job Resume operation. ALT EXCEPTION: PM JOB RESUME REQUEST FOR A NON-EXISTENT PM JOB – This exception occurs when a PM Job Resume requests for the resume of a non- Step 7 (ALT) existent PM Job. The request will not be able to be processed because the PM Job does not exist. A response is sent to the requesting entity (SMO), that a request for the resumption of the PM Job is invalid. The Use Case ends when this exception case is encountered. Step 8 (ALT) ALT EXCEPTION: PM JOB RESUME REQUEST FOR A DEPRECATED PM JOB This exception occurs when a PM Job Resume requests for the resume of a deprecated PM Job. The request will not be able to be processed because the PM Job is in the deprecated state. A response is sent to the requesting entity (SMO), that a request for the resume of the deprecated PM Job is invalid. The Use Case ends when this exception case is encountered. ALT EXCEPTION: UNEXPECTED CONDITION – A response is sent to the requesting entity from the SMO, that the IMS encountered Step 9 (ALT) an unexpected condition processing the request. The Use Case ends when this exception case is encountered. PM JOB RESUME RESPONSE Step 10 (M) The PM Job Update Response is given from the SMO (FOCOM) to the O-Cloud Operator. This use case ends when the PM Job Resume operation has successfully been Ends when accomplished, or one of the exception cases have been encountered. Resume of non-existent PM Job – This exception is encountered when a PM Job Resume requests to resume anon-existent PM Job. Resume of a Deprecated PM Job – This exception occurs when a PM Job Exceptions Resume requests to resume a PM Job in the Deprecated state. Unexpected Condition – This exception occurs when an unexpected condition is encountered. Success – On a successful PM Job Resume operation, the requestor gets a response to their request which includes the result of the operation. Additionally, subscribed consumer(s) get a State Change Notification of PM Job in the active state. Post-conditions Failure – The request was not able to be completed. No other “clean up” for this use case needs to occur within the O-Cloud or IMS. The requestor gets a response of the failure. Traceability [REQ-ORC-O2-71], [REQ-ORC-O2-72]

#### 3.8.10.3 UML Sequence Diagram

### 3.8.11 Performance Management Dictionary Discovery IMS Use Case

#### 3.8.11.1 High Level Description
When a new O-Cloud Resource Type is discovered in the O-Cloud infrastructure either on O-Cloud genesis or during run-time, the IMS would inform FOCOM (SMO) about that new Resource Type so that the appropriate corresponding Performance Management Dictionary can be identified.
> NOTE: every version of Resource has its own Resource Type and thus a Performance Management Dictionary
associated with it. It is expected that the SMO would have already onboarded the associated Resource Type before it is discovered by the O-Cloud infrastructure, as described in O2 IMS Specification [17]. The four situations where a Performance Management dictionary could be discovered are: a) RESOURCE SOFTWARE UPDATE – A software update of a Resource creates a new Resource Type with its attendant Performance Management Dictionary in inventory. Existing resources can either remain pointing to the existing Resource Type or be software updated to the newly loaded Resource Type. Each Resource Type has its own unique Performance Management dictionary associated with it at the SMO. b) QUERY & SYNCHRONIZATION – A query service may also result in the discovery of new Resource Types in the O-Cloud infrastructure. Additionally, the initial synchronization of the model between the O-Cloud and management system (SMO) may result in the discovery of Resource Types to be managed. c) NEW RESOURCES ADDED – New objects have been added to the O-Cloud infrastructure. Subsequently, new Resource Types corresponding to those new objects may be added which then may result in an Infrastructure Inventory Event being generated to a consumer (FOCOM/SMO) or subscriber. d) IMS LIFE CYCLE SOFTWARE UPDATE – When the software of the O-Cloud is updated new Resource Types can be discovered. The updated IMS software could come with new Resource types including their Performance Management Dictionaries. There are two possible ways the IMS gets the Performance Management Dictionary (PM Dictionary). The first is that SMO might update the IMS with the Performance Management Dictionary. The second method is for the IMS to get the Performance Management Dictionary from the O-Cloud Resource (or external proxy for the resource). See the Resource Type Onboarding LCM Use Case for more details. The source of truth is in the cloud for O-Cloud Resource Types.

#### 3.8.11.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> USE CASE EVOLUTION / SPECIFICATION STAGE Related Use Use Case Title Performance Management (PM) Dictionary Discovery (IMS) The primary goal of this use case is where the consumer (SMO) adds a Performance Management Dictionary corresponding to a new discovered Resource Type in the O-Cloud infrastructure. Goal A consequence is that the consumer (SMO) has a corresponding Performance Management Dictionary that corresponds to every Resource Type that would emit Performance Measures. The triggers for this use case revolve around insuring that consistency. O-Cloud Operator – The O-Cloud Operator is a consumer (or entity) using or interfacing with the SMO (FOCOM). SMO (FOCOM) – The FOCOM within the SMO is used in this use case to represent Actors and Roles any consumer of this use case. IMS – The IMS within the O-Cloud is used to represent any provider of the responses to the use case triggers. Assumptions No Assumptions Connectivity – The producer has connectivity to the consumer by some mechanism. The mechanism by which the subscriber achieves connectivity to the publisher is out of the scope of this Use Case. O-Cloud Operational & Registered – The O-Cloud is installed, operating, and registered with the SMO. Preconditions Privilege – The consumer identification and privileges have been verified to be able to perform O2 operations. Performance Management Dictionaries Onboarded – Performance Management Dictionar(ies) are onboarded with the Resource Type definition(s) into the O-Cloud Infrastructure Inventory. This is performed by software in the O-Cloud that manages Resource Types. There are four triggers that invokes this Use Case: Software update of an O-Cloud Resource – When software is updated for an O- Cloud Infrastructure Resource(s), a new Resource Type might be discovered which will trigger this use case. New Resources deployed – When new Resources are deployed to the O-Cloud Infrastructure, it may cause new Resource Types to be discovered which would subsequently trigger this use case. Begins when Query Infrastructure Inventory – A Query Infrastructure Inventory for a Resource Type triggers this use case. One place this occurs is in O-Cloud Registration & Initialization during O-Cloud genesis, the consumer performs a Query Infrastructure Inventory. The consumer then gets the Performance Management Dictionaries for all the Resource Types discovered during genesis. See the O-Cloud Registration & Initialization use case. IMS Life Cycle Software Update – When the software of the O-Cloud is updated new Resource Types can be discovered which will trigger this use case. RESOURCE TYPE RECORD CREATED (causes Performance Management Dictionary to be onboarded) When a new Resource Type record is created during O-Cloud onboarding a Performance Management Dictionary corresponding to that Resource Type is onboarded within the O-Cloud (see pre-conditions). These triggers cause a new Resource Type record to be created: Software update of an O-Cloud Resource – When software is updated for an O- Cloud Resource(s), a new Resource Type is created. IMS Life Cycle Software Update – When the software of the O-Cloud is updated Step 1 (M) new Resource Types record is created. New Resources deployed – When new Resources are deployed to the O-Cloud Infrastructure, it may cause new Resource Type to be created. These two triggers would cause a new Resource Type record to be discovered by SMO: Query Infrastructure Inventory – A Query Infrastructure Inventory for a Resource Type is discovered for a previously created Resource Type record. Infrastructure Inventory Notification – A Infrastructure Inventory Notification from the O-Cloud to the subscriber, the IMS will send a copy of the Resource Type record. O-CLOUD INFRASTRUCTURE INVENTORY EVENT NOTIFICATION (Alt) – The IMS sends an O-Cloud Infrastructure Inventory Event Notification over O2ims interface to the consumer, FOCOM/SMO, if a subscription already exists. This notification is sent if Step 1 triggers the creation of new Resource Type(s) or Step 2 (ALT) discovers new Resource Type(s). The O-Cloud Infrastructure Inventory Event Notification communicates the Resource Type(s) information.
> NOTE 1: For the definition of the InfrastructureInventoryEventNotification see
Reference [17]. QUERY O-CLOUD INFO REQUEST – Step 3 (ALT) The consumer, FOCOM/SMO, can send a request to Query the O-Cloud for inventory information. This request will result in the SMO discovering new Resource Type(s). QUERY O-CLOUD INFO RESPONSE – The producer, IMS, processes the Query request and returns any new Resource Types that have been discovered for a previously created Resource Type record.
> NOTE 2: Upon receipt, the consumer, SMO, is expected to associate the new
Step 4 (ALT) Performance Management Dictionary/Dictionaries with the newly discovered Resource Type(s). The Resource Type object contains the Performance Management Dictionary associate with the Resource ID or vendor make & model data.
> NOTE 3: The IMS might get the Performance Management Dictionary from the O-
Cloud Resource and sent it to the SMO. PERFORMANCE Management DICTIONARY ASSOCIATED - It is expected that the consumer, SMO, will associate the Performance Management Dictionar(ies) for the new Resource Type(s) sent by the IMS or it already has the proper Performance Management Dictionar(ies).
> NOTE 4: The consumer, SMO, will likely aggregate all the Performance
Step 5 (M) Management Dictionaries across the O-Clouds that it has purview to. This is implementation specific.
> NOTE 5: (error case) If a Resource Type collects Performance metrics, then there
is a Performance Management Dictionary, but it was not loaded (due to error), for this use case, the IMS will indicate there is no dictionary for this Resource Type. If later, a Performance metric is sent for that resource instance with a missing Performance Management Dictionary, a consumer, SMO, will have to debug and potentially attempt to reload the Performance Management Dictionary post facto. This use case ends when the consumer has associated new Performance Ends when Management Dictionar(ies) to newly create or discovered Resource Type(s). Exceptions None Success – Upon successful completion of the use case, the consumer, SMO, associates the proper Performance Management Dictionar(ies) to newly discovered Post-conditions or created Resource Type(s). Failure – No failure cases Traceability [REQ-ORC-O2-52], [REQ-ORC-O2-53]

#### 3.8.11.3 UML Sequence Diagram

### 3.8.12 Performance Management Subscription Query (IMS) Use Case

#### 3.8.12.1 High Level Description
This use case details the management of Performance Management Subscriptions; in particular, the query service operation. The query of a Performance Management Subscription is the ability of an authorized entity to get the details of a Performance Management Subscription including its performance subscription filter. The create, update, and delete of a Performance Management Subscription is documented in the other Performance Management Subscription use cases. This use case only concerns the query of a Performance Management Subscription.
> NOTE: The query-response paradigm and CRUD paradigm (Read in this case) are synonymous in terms of this use
case. That is, Query (cf. query-response) and Read (cf. CRUD operations) are synonymous in for this use case. The performance framework is described in the GA&P specification (reference [9]). The Performance Management Subscription filter defines the following things (among others) for collecting and reporting Performance Measurements over O2ims:  The subscription filter qualifies what data from the Performance Measurement jobs should be sent.  The subscription filter indicates the collection timing interval.  The subscription filter specifies the reporting mechanisms (file-based reporting, stream-based reporting, event notification reporting).  The subscription filter dictates the report formats.  The query filter could include the Consumer Performance Subscription Identifier(s). An entity performing the query would usually be the SMO; however, it could also be another authorized user, technician, or machine (e.g. software, script, etc.). Typically, an entity would perform a subscription query to cross- check their Performance Management Subscription. Though, it could also be utilized for other management purposes as well. Performance Management Subscription describes a subscription mechanism dedicated to getting reports for Performance Measurements. The Performance Management Subscription is not used since we have dedicated subscriptions for measurements specifically.

#### 3.8.12.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> USE CASE EVOLUTION / SPECIFICATION STAGE Related Use Use Case Title Performance Management Subscription Query An entity (typically the SMO), desires to query the Performance Management Goal Subscription(s) from the IMS. (NOTE 1) (NOTE 2) (NOTE 3) (NOTE 4) O-Cloud Operator – The O-Cloud operator is a user that is interested in getting Performance subscription query results. SMO (FOCOM) – The FOCOM within the SMO is used in this use case to represent Actors and Roles any consumer of the Performance Management Subscription query service. IMS – The IMS within the O-Cloud is used to represent any provider of the Performance Management Subscription status query service. Assumptions There are no assumptions. Connectivity – The Subscriber has connectivity to the publisher by some mechanism. The mechanism by which the subscriber achieves connectivity to the publisher is out of the scope of this Use Case. Preconditions O-Cloud Operational – The O-Cloud is installed, operating, and registered with the SMO. Privilege – The consumer identification and privileges of a SMO user have been verified to be able to perform O2 operations. The use case begins when an operator at the SMO wishes to query the Begins when Performance Management Subscription(s). Step 1 (M) PERFORMANCE SUBSCRIPTION QUERY REQUEST – The O-Cloud operator initiates a query for Performance Management Subscription(s) with a query filter. PERFORMANCE SUBSCRIPTION QUERY REQUEST – Step 2 (M) The query Performance Management Subscription request is issued from FOCOM (SMO) to the publisher (IMS) with query filter. (NOTE 5) SUCCESSFUL PERFORMANCE SUBSCRIPTION QUERY – A connection authentication is verified by the publisher (IMS). This is a standard Step 3 (ALT) type of check; and a standard response would be issued in this case. The query request operation is processed by the publisher. If the query request results in Performance Management Subscription(s) matching the query filter, then a success response is sent to FOCOM (SMO) in step 8. EXCEPTION: QUERY OF NON-EXISTING PERFORMANCE SUBSCRIPTION – If the query operation results in no Performance Management Subscription that matches the query filter, then a Performance Management Subscription not found Step 4 (ALT) is issued back to the requestor. For example, if no consumer subscription identifier(s) matches any Performance Subscription, this exception would be encountered. (NOTE 6) EXCEPTION: QUERY OF NON-EXISTING PERFORMANCE SUBSCRIPTION RESPONSE – If the query operation results in no Performance Management Subscriptions that Step 5 (ALT) match the query filter, then a “no existing Performance Management Subscriptions” response is issued from FOCOM to the O-Cloud Operator. This is a return/response for Step 1. The Use Case ends here. EXCEPTION: UNEXPECTED CONDITION – Step 6 (ALT) The IMS might not be able to comply with the request. There might have been a software issue trying to process the Performance Management Subscription query request. EXCEPTION: UNEXPECTED CONDITION – Step 7 (ALT) The SMO (FOCOM) returns to the operator that there was an unexpected condition. The Use Case ends here. QUERY PERFORMANCE SUBSCRIPTION (SUCCESS) – Step 8 (M) A successful Performance Management Subscription query operation will result in a success from FOCOM back to O-Cloud operator. This is a return/response for Step 1. This Use Case ends under two cases: EXCEPTION CASE – The use case ends when there an exception case is encountered. For example, when a requestor tries to perform a query operation Ends when where all of the requested Performance Management Subscriptions do not exist. QUERY OPERATION SUCCEEDS – The use case will end if the query operation of Performance Management Subscription successfully completed. EXCEPTION CASE: NON-EXISTENT SUBSCRIPTION – None of the requested Exceptions Performance Management Subscriptions exist in the query operation. EXCEPTION CASE: UNEXPECTED CONDITION – The IMS might not be able to comply to the Performance Management Subscription query request. In this case, the unexpected condition exception is encountered. Success: The Performance Management Subscription has been returned to the requestor (O-Cloud operator) Post-conditions Failure: An exception notification of a non-existent Performance Management Subscription or Unexpected Condition has been issued. Traceability [REQ-ORC-O2-85], [REQ-ORC-O2-86]
> NOTE 1: Query (cf. query-response) and Read (cf. CRUD operations) are synonymous for this use case. This is the “R”
in CRUD.
> NOTE 2: An entity may be any authorized user or machine (e.g. software or script, etc.).
> NOTE 3: This use case is one in a series of use cases related to Performance Management Subscription management
(CRUD operations). The create, update, and delete Performance Management Subscription operations are described in other use cases.
> NOTE 4: The IMS could have more than one Performance Management Subscription. This use case covers the query of
one or multiple Performance Management Subscription(s).
> NOTE 5: The query filter could include the Consumer Subscription Identifier(s).
> NOTE 6: If a Performance Management Subscription Query has a mixture of valid and non-existing subscriptions, the
operation will only return information about the content.

#### 3.8.12.3 UML Sequence Diagram

### 3.8.13 Performance Management Subscription Update (IMS) Use Case

#### 3.8.13.1 High Level Description
This use case describes the update of a Performance Measurement Subscription. ETSI GS NFV-SOL 003 (see Reference x) specifies the API to perform a PM Job update. The update of PM Job allows for the update of the subscription including the callback URIs for the notification of events of PM Jobs. The create, query, and delete of a Performance Measurement Subscription is documented in other Performance Measurement Subscription related use cases. The query-response paradigm and CRUD paradigm (update in this case) are synonymous in terms of this use case. This use case only concerns the update of a Performance Measurement Subscription. The Performance Measurement Subscription update allows for an entity to modify the subscription filter for notifications of interest by a consumer with an update order (see below). Because there is metadata related to the Performance Measurement Subscription it is meaningful to have an update operation. The Performance Measurement Subscription update would be able to change the following things: Connection Information – This describes the connection information which includes the Performance Measurement Subscription ID, the Mode, encoding scheme and callback URI. Resources, Resource Types – This part of the update order describes which O-Cloud resources, or the O- Cloud resource types. Any resources that of the specified type, metrics are collected on. Delivery Details – This describes the delivery information including the reporting interval, and whether redundant data should be suppressed. Received Measures – This describes the measures to be received to be reported. PM Jobs – The subscription update can alter the PM Jobs involved.
> NOTE: Some modifications concerning the Performance Measurement Subscription, such as callback URI, can
also be performed by modifying/updating the underlying PM Jobs. An entity requesting for a subscription update would usually be the SMO; however, it could also be another authorized user, administrator, technician, or machine (e.g., software, script, etc.). Typically, an endpoint moved, or there are new URI endpoints. Only an entity with the proper permissions or authorization would be allowed to make a PM subscription update.

#### 3.8.13.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> USE CASE EVOLUTION / SPECIFICATION Related Use STAGE Use Case Title Performance Measurement Subscription Update An entity (typically the SMO), desires to update the Performance Measurement 3.8.1 PM Job Subscription(s) from the IMS. Creation Use Case
> NOTE 1: Update is a basic type of operation (cf. CRUD operations), the “U” in
CRUD.
> NOTE 2: An entity may be any authorized user or authorized management function.
Goal
> NOTE 3: This use case is one in a series of use cases related to Performance
Measurement Subscription management (CRUD operations). The create, query, and delete Performance Measurement Subscription operations are described in other use cases.
> NOTE 4: PM Subscription update is also applicable to embedded subscriptions
which are created in PM Job Creation (see the PM Job Creation Use Case). O-Cloud Operator – The O-Cloud operator is a user that is interested in updating Performance Measurement Subscription. SMO (FOCOM) – The FOCOM within the SMO is used in this use case to represent Actors and Roles any consumer of the Performance Measurement Subscription service. IMS – The IMS within the O-Cloud performs the Performance Measurement Subscription update operation. Assumptions There are no assumptions. Connectivity – The Subscriber has connectivity to the publisher by some Preconditions mechanism. The mechanism by which the subscriber achieves connectivity to the publisher is out of the scope of this Use Case. O-Cloud Operational – The O-Cloud is installed, operating, and registered with the SMO. Privilege – The consumer identification and privileges of a SMO user have been verified to be able to perform O2 operations. The use case begins when an operator at the SMO wishes to update the Begins when Performance Measurement Subscription(s). PERFORMANCE MEASUREMENT SUBSCRIPTION UPDATE REQUEST – Step 1 (M) The O-Cloud operator initiates an update for Performance Measurement Subscription(s) with an update order. PERFORMANCE MEASUREMENT SUBSCRIPTION UPDATE REQUEST – Step 2 (M) The update Performance Measurement Subscription request is issued from FOCOM (SMO) to the publisher (IMS) with update order. SUCCESSFUL PERFORMANCE MEASUREMENT SUBSCRIPTION UPDATE – A connection authentication is verified by the publisher (IMS). This is a standard Step 3 (ALT) type of check; and a standard response would be issued in this case. The update request operation is processed by the publisher. If the update request results in Performance Measurement Subscription(s) matching the update order, then a success response is sent to FOCOM (SMO) in step 8. EXCEPTION: UPDATE OF NON-EXISTING PERFORMANCE MEASUREMENT SUBSCRIPTION – If the update operation results in no Performance Measurement Subscription that matches the update order, then a Performance Measurement Subscription not found is issued back to the requestor. Step 4 (ALT) For example, if a consumer subscription identifier does not match any Performance Measurement Subscription, this exception would be encountered.
> NOTE 5: If a Performance Measurement Subscription update has a mixture of valid
and non-existing subscriptions, the operation will only perform operations of valid subscriptions. EXCEPTION: UPDATE OF NON-EXISTING PERFORMANCE MEASUREMENT SUBSCRIPTION RESPONSE – If the update operation results in no Performance Measurement Subscriptions that Step 5 (ALT) match the requested subscriptions to be updated, then a “no existing Performance Measurement Subscriptions” response is issued from FOCOM to the O-Cloud Operator. This is a return/response for Step 1. The Use Case ends here. EXCEPTION: UNEXPECTED CONDITION – Step 6 (ALT) The IMS might not be able to perform the necessary updates according to the request. There might have been a software issue trying to process the Performance Measurement Subscription update request. EXCEPTION: UNEXPECTED CONDITION – Step 7 (ALT) The SMO (FOCOM) returns to the operator that there was an unexpected condition. The Use Case ends here. Step 8 (M) UPDATE PERFORMANCE MEASUREMENT SUBSCRIPTION (SUCCESS) – A successful Performance Measurement Subscription update operation will result in a success from FOCOM back to O-Cloud operator. This is a return/response for Step 1. This Use Case ends under two cases: EXCEPTION CASE – The use case ends when an exception case is encountered. For example, when a requestor tries to perform an update operation where no Ends when Performance Measurement Subscription(s) match the request. UPDATE OPERATION SUCCEEDS – The use case will end if the update operation of Performance Measurement Subscription successfully completed. EXCEPTION CASE: NON-EXISTENT SUBSCRIPTION – This exception is encountered if the update operation results in no Performance Measurement Subscriptions that match the requested subscriptions to be updated. Exceptions EXCEPTION CASE: UNEXPECTED CONDITION – The IMS might not be able to perform to the Performance Measurement Subscription update request perhaps due to a software fault. In this case, the unexpected condition exception is encountered. SUCCESS – The Performance Measurement Subscription has been updated successfully and status returned to the requestor (O-Cloud operator). Post-conditions FAILURE – An exception notification of a non-existent Performance Measurement Subscription or Unexpected Condition has been issued. Traceability [REQ-ORC-O2-87], [REQ-ORC-O288]

#### 3.8.13.3 UML Sequence Diagram

### 3.8.14 Performance Management Subscription Delete (IMS) Use Case

#### 3.8.14.1 High Level Description
This use case is about the Management of Performance Measurement Subscriptions; in particular, the delete service operation. The create, update, and query of a Performance Measurement Subscription are documented in separate use cases. This use case only concerns the deletion of one or more Performance Measurement Subscription(s) based on a list of subscription(s). The delete of a Performance Measurement Subscription is the ability of an authorized entity to delete a Performance Measurement Subscription towards the IMS. An entity here would usually be the SMO; however, it could also be another authorized user/technician, or machine (e.g., software, script, etc.). Any subscription operations that change a subscription are logged. Therefore, the delete of a Performance Measurement subscription is expected to be logged within the O-Cloud IMS.

#### 3.8.14.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> USE CASE EVOLUTION / SPECIFICATION STAGE Related Use Use Case Title Performance Measurement Subscription Delete An entity (typically the SMO) initiates the delete of one or more Performance 3.8.7 Measurement Subscription(s) based on a list of subscription(s). The operation is Performance handled by the IMS. Measurement Job Delete
> NOTE 1: Delete is a basic type of operation (cf. CRUD operation), the “D” in Use Case
CRUD.
> NOTE 2: An entity may be any authorized management function.
> NOTE 3: This use case is one in a series of use cases related to Performance
Goal Measurement Subscription management (CRUD operations). The create, update, and update of Performance Measurement Subscription operations are described in other use cases.
> NOTE 4: The PM Job deletion operation in the case of embedded subscriptions
causes the associated PM subscription to be automatically deleted.
> NOTE 5: If a PM Subscription Delete depends on a PM Job, and that PM Job is
deleted through the PM Job delete operation. The PM subscription is automatically deleted. (See the Performance Measurement Job Delete Use Case). O-Cloud Operator – The O-Cloud operator is a user that is interested in deleting a Performance Measurement Subscription. SMO (FOCOM) – The FOCOM within the SMO is used in this use case to Actors and Roles represent any consumer or management entity for the Performance Measurement Subscription. IMS – The IMS within the O-Cloud performs the Performance Measurement Subscription delete operation. Assumptions There are no assumptions. Connectivity – The Subscriber has connectivity to the Publisher by some mechanism. The mechanism by which the subscriber achieves connectivity to the publisher is out of the scope of this Use Case. Preconditions O-Cloud Operational – The O-Cloud is installed, operating, and registered with the SMO. Privilege – The consumer identification and privileges of a SMO user have been verified to be able to perform O2 operations. The use case begins when an operator at the SMO wishes to delete Performance Begins when Measurement Subscription(s). PERFORMANCE SUBSCRIPTION DELETE REQUEST – Step 1 (M) The O-Cloud operator initiates the deletion of one or more Performance Measurement Subscription(s) indicating the list of subscription(s) to be deleted. Step 2 (M) PERFORMANCE SUBSCRIPTION DELETE REQUEST – The delete Performance Measurement Subscription request is issued from FOCOM (SMO) to the publisher (IMS) indicating the list of subscription(s) to be deleted.
> NOTE 6: It would be left to protocol design how handle the deletion of multiple
subscriptions. PERFORMANCE MEASUREMENT SUBSCRIPTION DELETE OPERATION – A connection authentication is verified by the publisher (IMS). This is a standard type of check. The update request operation to delete one or more Performance Measurement Subscription(s) is processed by the IMS (publisher). Step 3 (ALT) The Performance Measurement Subscription delete operation will be logged by the IMS.
> NOTE 7: If some of the PM Subscription(s) exist in the request, and some PM
subscription(s) do not, the operation would be processed successfully, returning the ones that were deleted. PERFORMANCE MEASUREMENT SUBSCRIPTION DELETE – If the Performance Measurement Subscription operation was successful, then a Step 4 (ALT) success response is sent to the SMO (consumer) over the O2ims interface.
> NOTE 8: If the PM Subscription deletion request was successful, the operator is
notified in step 7. ALT EXCEPTION: NO PERFORMANCE MEASUREMENT SUBSCRIPTION(S) FOUND – This exception is encountered when the PM Subscription delete operation requests contains only non-existent PM Subscription(s). In this case, none of the PM Subscription(s) in the request were found. Step 5 (ALT) For example, the PM Job delete operation with associated embedded subscriptions would cause those PM Subscriptions to be deleted. Thus, when this PM Job Subscription request is received, if the request had only those PM Subscriptions listed it would trigger this exception.

# A “no Performance Measurement Subscriptions found” response is issued from IMS to FOCOM (SMO).
The Use Case ends. ALT EXCEPTION: UNEXPECTED CONDITION – A response is sent to the requesting entity from the SMO, that the IMS Step 6 (ALT) encountered an unexpected condition processing the request. The Use Case ends. DELETE PERFORMANCE MEASUREMENT SUBSCRIPTION RESPONSE – Step 7 (M) A response is returned to the FOCOM (SMO) from the IMS for the delete Performance Measurement Subscription operation. This Use Case ends when either the Performance Measurement Subscription(s) Ends when have been deleted successfully, or one of the two Exception cases has been encountered. EXCEPTION: NO PERFORMANCE MEASUREMENT SUBSCRIPTION(S) Exceptions FOUND – This exception is encountered if no Performance Measurement Subscriptions match the Performance Measurement Subscription delete request. EXCEPTION: UNEXPECTED CONDITION – The IMS might not be able to perform to the Performance Measurement Subscription delete operation perhaps due to a software fault. In this case, the unexpected condition exception is encountered. SUCCESS – The Performance Measurement Subscription(s) have been deleted successfully and status returned to the requestor (O-Cloud operator). Post-conditions FAILURE – An exception notification of “No Performance Measurement Subscriptions found” or “Unexpected Condition” has been issued. Traceability [REQ-ORC-O2-89], [REQ-ORC-O2-90]

#### 3.8.14.3 UML Sequence Diagram

### 3.8.15 Performance Management Configuration Use Case

#### 3.8.15.1 High Level Description
The Performance Management Configuration use case will allow for a requesting entity to alter other attributes not covered in the Performance Management Job Creation Use Case and the Performance Management Subscription Use Cases. This use case complements the Performance Measurement Job Creation Use Case, Performance Measurement Job Update Use Case, Performance Management Subscription Use Case, Performance Management Subscription Update Use Case which are other use cases that will configure the behavior of the Performance Management operation. These other use cases can alter subtending attributes of the PeformanceSubscription and PerformanceManagementJob family of related objects. Thus, this use case is focused on the ability to change other attributes related to Performance Management operation. For example, the PerformanceMeasureStore class has a retentionPeriod attribute which can be configured with this use case. The definition of the retentionPeriod is covered in the O2 Information Model. See the Alarm Purge Use Case (see clause 3.7.13 in this document) and Alarm List Creation Use Case (see clause 3.7.11 in this document) and Retention Period concepts for further details (O-RAN WG6.O2-GA&P [9])

#### 3.8.15.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> USE CASE EVOLUTION / SPECIFICATION STAGE Related Use Use Case Title Performance Management Configuration Use Case Performance Measurement Job Creation, Performance Measurement This use case described how an authorized entity (typically the SMO) can Job Update, change the configuration of Performance Management related attributes. Performance Goal See note 1. Management Subscription, Performance Management Subscription Update Use Case O-Cloud Operator – The O-Cloud operator is a user that is interested in configuring Performance Management related attributes. Actors and SMO (FOCOM) – The FOCOM within the SMO is used in this use case to Roles request for a Performance Management Configuration change. IMS – The IMS within the O-Cloud performs the Performance Management Configuration operation. Assumptions There are no assumptions. Connectivity – The Subscriber has connectivity to the Publisher by some Preconditions mechanism. The mechanism by which the subscriber achieves connectivity to the publisher is out of the scope of this Use Case. O-Cloud Operational – The O-Cloud is installed, operating, and registered with the SMO. Privilege – The consumer identification and privileges of a SMO user have been verified to be able to perform O2 operations. This use case being when a management entity, typically the SMO, requests Begins when for an update of Performance Configuration attributes. PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT CONFIGURATION REQUEST – Step 1 (M) The O-Cloud operator initiates a request to configure Performance Management attributes PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT CONFIGURATION REQUEST – The Performance Management Configuration request is issued from the management entity (FOCOM / SMO) to the IMS. The IMS authenticates the connection. The IMS configures the attributes values for requested objects. If the IMS is Step 2 (M) unable to configure the attribute(s) with requested values, they are not updated. IMS performs post configuration operations. For example, if the retention period is altered, the IMS will purge elements that are older than the new retention period. See note 2. PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT CONFIGURATION OPERATION SUCCESS /PARTIAL SUCCESS – SUCCEEDED - If every requested attribute was successfully updated, then the IMS responds to the requesting management entity, a Performance Management Configuration succeeded. Step 3 (ALT) PARTIALLY SUCCEEDED - If only some of the requested attributes could be configured and some of the requested attributes could not be configured, then the IMS configures the attributes that it can and responds to the requesting management entity, a Performance Management Configuration partially succeeded. EXCEPTION: ALL REQUESTED OBJECT(S)/ATTRIBUTE(S) NOT FOUND – If the Performance Management Configuration request has only object(s) and Step 4 (ALT) attribute(s) that do not exist, then a Performance Management Configuration of All requested Object(s) and Attribute(s) not found is issued back to the requestor. See note 3. EXCEPTION: ALL REQUESTED OBJECT(S) AND ATTRIBUTE(S) NOT FOUND – If the configuration operation results in all Performance Management objects Step 5 (ALT) and attributes were not found, then a “All requested object and attributes were not found” response is issued from FOCOM to the O-Cloud Operator. This is a return/response for Step 1. The Use Case ends here. EXCEPTION: UNEXPECTED CONDITION IMS to SMO – The IMS might not be able to perform the configuration operation. There might have been a software issue encountered in the processing of the Performance Step 6 (ALT) Management configuration request. A response is sent to the requesting entity from the IMS, that the IMS encountered an unexpected condition processing the request. EXCEPTION: UNEXPECTED CONDITION SMO to O-Cloud Operator – The SMO (FOCOM) returns to the operator that there was an unexpected Step 7 (ALT) condition. The Use Case ends here. PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT CONFIGURATION RESPONSE – Step 8 (M) A successful Performance Management Configuration operation will result in a success from FOCOM back to O-Cloud operator. This is a return/response for Step 1. This Use Case ends under two cases: EXCEPTION CASE – The use case ends when an exception case is encountered. For example, when a requestor tries to perform an update Ends when operation where all requested object(s) and attribute(s) are not found. UPDATE OPERATION SUCCEEDS – The use case will end if the configuration operation of Performance Management attribute(s) successfully completed. EXCEPTION CASE: ALL REQUESTED OBJECT(S) AND ATTRIBUTE(S) NOT FOUND – This exception is encountered if no Performance Management objects and attributes were not found that match those in the Performance Management Configuration request. Exceptions EXCEPTION CASE: UNEXPECTED CONDITION – The IMS might not be able to perform to the Performance Management Configuration request perhaps due to a software fault. In this case, the unexpected condition exception is encountered. SUCCESS – The Performance Management Configuration has resulted in successfully configuration attributes. A status is returned to the requestor (O- Cloud operator). Post-conditions FAILURE – An exception notification none of the request object(s) and attribute(s) were found or an Unexpected Condition has been issued. Traceability [REQ-ORC-O2-99], [REQ-ORC-O2-100]
> NOTE 1: The Performance Management Job Creation Use Case and the Performance Management Subscription Use
Case allow for a user to configure attributes related to PM Jobs and Performance Management Subscriptions
> NOTE 2: Race conditions that may occur because of changing the retention period is resolved through IMS
implementation.
> NOTE 3: If a Performance Management Configuration update has a mixture of valid objects-attributes and non-existing
objects-attributes, then the operation will only be completed for the configurable attribute(s). This would return a partial success indicator (in Step 3).

#### 3.8.15.3 3.8.15.3 UML Sequence Diagram

## 3.9 VLAN Management Use Cases

### 3.9.1 VLAN Allocation Use Case

#### 3.9.1.1 High Level Description
This Use Case supports allocation of a VLAN ID to support various deployment use cases such a network slice. As an example, one of the consumers is RAN NSSMF (Network Slice Subnet Management Function) that needs to associate a RAN slice to a VLAN ID during slice subnet provisioning procedures. Within a given O-Cloud, RAN NSSMF uses this VLAN ID as handover between O-Cloud and transport network so that the slice could be carried through the transport network across multiple O-Clouds. If a slice spans multiple O-Clouds, this handover is necessary for each segment of the transport connecting these O-Clouds. See Annex A in the O-RAN.WG1.Slicing-Architecture- v05.00 [14] as to how this VLAN ID is used in various deployments. The scope of this use case is simply to allocate/reserve a VLAN ID within O-Cloud. As a part of this use case, no configuration is pushed in the O-Cloud. Since VLANs have a local significance, each O-Cloud manages a pool of VLAN IDs, and returns a VLAN ID upon a query/request from SMO (FOCOM). To avoid using the same VLAN ID multiple times, O-Cloud may take the VLAN ID out of the “available” pool after it allocates it. O-Cloud may choose any mechanism to ensure that same VLAN IDs is not used multiple times.
> NOTE: There are other viable identifiers to associate a slice with (such as VLANs, VNIs, VRFs, etc.), In the initial
version of O-RAN network slicing, VLAN IDs are used for this purpose. Additional identifiers, or an abstract identifier may be introduced in future. This does not impose any networking constrains within O-Cloud.

#### 3.9.1.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Allocation of VLAN ID (and associate it to a network slice optionally). See O- Goal RAN.WG1.Slicing-Architecture-v05.00 [14] RAN NSSMF – acts as a consumer of VLAN Allocation use case for network slice subnet management purposes. Actors and Roles SMO/FOCOM – Federated O-Cloud Orchestration and Management

# I MS/DMS
Slicing is used as an example consumer of this VLAN ID allocation service. Assumptions 1. NSSMF function is available and drives the creation of network slice 2. If network slice spans multiple O-Clouds within RAN domain, below use case request is executed each O-Cloud 1. SMO is available Preconditions 2. The VLAN IDs Pool is available in O-Cloud 3. NF has already been deployed. As a part of network slice creation, NSSMF requests a VLAN identifier from O- Cloud. Optionally, a metadata may be provided by NSSMF that could include Slice ID. Begins when Metadata is a generic structure that could be passed along with the request. This structure could include various data items such as Slice ID. As specified in Step 4 below, if metadata is provided, O-Cloud associates VLAN ID with the metadata. SMO/FOCOM requests a VLAN ID from O-Cloud. This request may be on Step 1 (M) O2ims/O2dms O-Cloud does the feasibility check – i.e., if a VLAN ID is available. Step 2(M) O-Cloud selects an available VLAN ID from the pool of available VLAN IDs Step 3 (M) O-Cloud associates the VLAN ID to metadata provided by the SMO, which may include slice identification related information. Step 4 (O) . O-Cloud returns the selected VLAN ID to SMO. Step 5 (M) How SMO uses this VLAN ID is described in section 3.9.1.1 The response is returned Ends when No VLAN ID is available Exceptions VLAIN ID is reserved/allocated in O-Cloud Post Conditions REQ-ORC-GEN24 Traceability

#### 3.9.1.3 UML sequence diagram

### 3.9.2 VLAN Deallocation Use Case

#### 3.9.2.1 High Level Description
This use case supports deallocation of a VLAN ID when a given VLAN ID not needed anymore, such as at the time of deletion of a network slice. A given VLAN IDs is a returned back to “available” pool of VLAN IDs in each O-Cloud. VLAN IDs are a limited/finite set of pool. Therefore, it is important to recycle the VLAN IDs as they are not needed anymore. As an example, when a network slice is deleted, RAN NSSMF sends a deallocate VLAN ID request to O- Cloud. O-Cloud moves the VLAN ID into the pool of available VLAN IDs.

#### 3.9.2.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Freeing of VLAN ID (associated with network slice). See O-RAN.WG1.Slicing- Goal Architecture-v05.00 [14] RAN NSSMF – acts as a consumer of VLAN Allocation use case for network slice subnet management purposes. Actors and Roles SMO/FOCOM – Federated O-Cloud Orchestration and Management IMS/DMS Slicing is used as an example consumer of this VLAN ID allocation service. Assumptions 1. NSSMF function is available and drives the deletion of network slice 2. If network slice spans multiple O-Clouds within RAN domain, below use case request is executed for each O-Cloud 1. SMO is available 3.9.1 VLAN ID Preconditions 2. Network slice already exists Allocation As a part of network slice deletion, NSSMF requests O-Cloud to free the VLAN Begins when ID associated with the slice. O-Cloud verifies that the VLAN ID is valid that is being deleted. If this is not a valid VLAN ID, no action is taken and response with error is returned. Verification of the valid VLAN ID can be multifold, such as: Step 1 (M) 1. Is this a valid number? 2. Is it within the range of available VLAN IDs pool? O-Cloud deletes the metadata previously associated to the VLAN ID Step 2 (O) O-Cloud returns freed VLAN ID to the pool of available VLANs Step 3 (M) The response is returned Ends when Exceptions Invalid VLAN ID specified VLAN ID is freed in O-Cloud Post Conditions Traceability REQ-ORC-GEN24

#### 3.9.2.3 UML sequence diagram

## 3.10 Network Slicing Use Cases

### 3.10.1 Network Slice Creation Use Case

#### 3.10.1.1 High Level Description
This use case supports creation of RAN slice subnet. Network slices may span across multiple domains such as RAN, Core, and Transport. The slice is divided into multiple subnets; one subnet per domain, i.e., RAN Slice Subnet, Transport Slice Subnet, and Core Slice Subnet. This section only covers the RAN Slice Subnet. Network slice creation requires creation of O-RAN Network Slice Subnet Instance (O-NSSI). RAN Network Slice Subnet Management Function (NSSMF) manages the creation and deletion of O-NSSI. For details, please see O- RAN.WG1.Slicing-Architecture-v06.00 [14]. RAN NSSMF also manages disaggregated RAN deployment use cases where Network Functions (such as O-DU and O-CU) are deployed in different O-Clouds or in different locations in each O-Cloud. RAN NSSMF manages creation of O-NSSI and relevant Network Functions (NFs) across multiple O-Clouds. RAN NSSMF triggers the Network Functions management operation via NFO. RAN NSSMF also coordinates with the constituent Transport NSSMF to achieve the slice connectivity across multiple O-Clouds. RAN NSSMF coordinates with its constituent Transport NSSMF through NSMF to stitch the connectivity across multiple O-Clouds or multiple sites in a distributed O-Cloud (for disaggregated RAN deployments). In such deployments, the network connectivity for the slice may require multiple network connections, herein referred to as network segments. For example, a slice spanning across two O-Clouds connected by transport may have up to 5 network segments. Two network segments within each O-Cloud, two segments between the O-Clouds and their respective Transport attachment points and a fifth network segment in the transport network. In multi-vendor O-RAN deployments, many flavors of NFs may co-exist. Some may require trunked interfaces whereas others may require access interfaces. Similarly, multiple forms for NFs may exist such as CNFs, VNFs, or PNFs. The End-2-End slice is associated with a network segment unique identifier per network segment, herein called a tag. While a choice of various viable identifiers (such as VLANs, VNIs, VRFs, etc.) is available, in this Use Case a VLAN ID is one of the example identifier/tags for network slicing. In that case, VLAN IDs are chosen for both within O-Cloud as well as for handover to the transport network.
> NOTE 1: The use case further elaborates on the scenario of using VLAN IDs, but other network segmentation solutions
are also possible. The packets marked with this unique tag/VLAN ID traverse the network segments within O-Cloud and are of local significance within a given network segment. This tag/VLAN ID may be stitched/mapped to a different tag by the O- Cloud Gateway to handover to the transport network attachment point. As an example, say VLAN ID 100 was chosen to mark an EMBB slice. This VLAN ID 100 may map to a VRF_X at O-Cloud Gateway and a VLAN ID 200 may be used to carry the same packets in the transport network. This mapping allows the transport network to carry the packets associated with each slice. Depending upon the slice SLAs and deployment scenario of a slice, RAN NSSMF makes the decisions such as:  If additional NF instances need to be deployed (e.g., one O-DU instance per slice), or  Use the existing NF for the new slice (e.g., shared resources for a slice)  RAN NSSMF/SMO makes an NF placement decision taking all relevant information into account.  Etc.
> NOTE 2: The actual details of such decisions by RAN NSSMF are out of the scope for this use case. See O-
RAN.WG1.Slicing-Architecture-v06.00 for details.

#### 3.10.1.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal Creation of network slice subnet in O-Cloud. RAN NSSMF – Manages network slice subnet, e.g., through SMO services. This includes:  Triggers the Instantiation of NFs for a given slice Actors and Roles  Orchestrates the end-2-end connectivity between different involved NFs for a given slice SMO/FOCOM/IMS – Federated O-Cloud Orchestration and Management

# N FO/DMS – To deploy NFs, if needed
1. RAN NSSMF function is available and drives the creation of network slice subnet instance (O-NSSI) 2. RAN NSSMF uses FOCOM to communicate with IMS, and it interacts NFO to trigger the NF management with DMS Assumptions 3. If network slice spans multiple O-Clouds (or multiple sites in a distributed O-Cloud) within RAN domain below use case request is executed for each O-Cloud or site. 4. RAN NSSMF may, but need not, request the deployment of NFs (depending upon the slice SLAs) 1. SMO is available 2. IMS and DMS are available Preconditions 3. The O-Cloud Node Cluster Network access or trunk port is created if the NFs require access or trunk port support. RAN NSSMF starts the creation of an instance of O-NSSI Begins when SMO/FOCOM requests an O-Cloud internal VLAN ID from O-Cloud over O2ims to associate with the slice. The requested VLAN ID will be used to tag the data frames of the NF’s respective slice, configured through the O1 interface. Also, the requested VLAN ID will be used to provision the O-Cloud Site Network Fabric. VLAN Allocation Step 1(M) Use case [3.9.1] If NF is already deployed and is using trunk port, add this VLAN ID to the trunk port and If NF is using cluster access mode ports, add a new access port and this VLAN ID to it. If a slice spans across multiple O-Clouds or sites in a distributed O-Cloud: NFs associated with the slice need to be connected to the O-Cloud Gateway so that they can connect to their counterpart through transport network in the remote O-Cloud or site in a distributed O-Cloud. 3GPP TS 28.541 defines EP_Transport for this connectivity. For example: O-DU connects to endpoint EP_F1U to communicate with O- CU_UP. This EP_F1U needs to be connected to EP_Transport to achieve this connectivity. Step 2(O) FOCOM sends request to IMS to ensure connectivity of the NFs associated with slice to the O-Cloud Gateway. This connectivity requires two interconnections. One connection from the NF to O-Cloud Gateway and second from the O-Cloud Gateway to the Transport network. Depending upon the case, the following options are possible to ensure inter-domain connectivity: I. The Network Segment (e.g., VLAN ID) used for handover shall be selected/reserved by the O-Cloud II. The O-Cloud shall be capable of receiving the Network Segment (e.g., VLAN ID) used for handover as an input for the O-Cloud internal configuration If NF need to be instantiated as part of the creation of slice subnet instance: SMO/ NFO sends request to O-Cloud via O2dms interface to deploy NFs. NFO may select appropriate cluster to deploy the NF on. Execute “Instantiate Network Function on O-Cloud” Use Case. Instantiate NF Step 3(O) use case [3.2.1] If NF needs to be connected to the trunk port, the trunk port is created prior to deploying the NF. Add the VLAN ID allocated in step 1 to this trunk port. If NF needs an access port for the new slice, infrastructure to create access port and assign the VLAN ID to that port. The response is returned Step 4(M) Exceptions: Slice creation fails. The failure exception could occur because of partial failures, such as:  Fail to deploy NF  Fail to create connectivity for any network segment Step 5(O) Clean up resources are required for such exceptions, such as:  Free up resources allocated for the deployment of NFs  Free up network resources, e.g., IPAM, VLAN ID, etc. None Post Conditions REQ-ORC-GEN25, REQ-ORC-GEN26, REQ-ORC-GEN27, REQ-ORC- Traceability GEN28, REQ-ORC-O2-46, REQ-ORC-O2-64, REQ-ORC-O2-65

#### 3.10.1.3 UML sequence diagram

### 3.10.2 Network Slice Deletion Use Case

#### 3.10.2.1 High Level Description
This use case supports the deletion of the network slice. When RAN NSSMF deletes a slice subnet, the Network Function instances associated with the slice may need to be terminated as well. Depending upon the deployment scenario (e.g., shared network functions vs. non shared), RAN NSSMF makes decision if NF needs to be terminated or not. RAN NSSMF sends request to NFO to terminate appropriate NFs.

# A VLAN ID associated with the slice is deallocated (both at O-Cloud Site Network Fabric as well as O-Cloud Node
Cluster Network level) so that O-Cloud could reuse the VLAN ID for further use.

#### 3.10.2.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Deletion of slice subnet instance in O-Cloud or a site in a distributed O-Cloud Goal RAN NSSMF – Manages network slice subnet management. SMO/FOCOM/IMS – Federated O-Cloud Orchestration and Management Actors and Roles NFO/DMS – To terminate NFs, if needed 1. RAN NSSMF function is available and drives the deletion of network slice subnet instance 2. RAN NSSMF uses FOCOM to communicate with IMS, and it interacts NFO to trigger the NF management with DMS Assumptions 3. If network slice spans multiple O-Clouds (or sites in a distributed O-Cloud) within RAN domain, below use case request is executed for each O-Cloud or sites. 4. RAN NSSMF may, but need not, trigger the termination of NFs 1. SMO is available Preconditions 2. IMS and DMS are available RAN NSSMF starts the deletion of an instance of O-NSSI Begins when If NF need to be terminated as part of the deletion of slice subnet instance: Terminate NF Step 1 (O) SMO/ NFO sends request to O-Cloud via O2dms interface to terminate NFs use case [3.2.5] Execute the “Terminate Network Function on O-Cloud” Use Case SMO/FOCOM sends a request to O-Cloud over O2ims to deallocate the VLAN VLAN Step 2 (M) ID associated with the slice Deallocation Use case [3.9.2] If slice spans across multiple O-Clouds, FOCOM sends request to IMS to remove the connectivity of the NFs associated with the slice from the O-Cloud Step 3 (O) Gateway. The response is returned Step 4(M) Exceptions Slice deletion fails None Post Conditions REQ-ORC-GEN25, REQ-ORC-GEN26, REQ-ORC-GEN27, REQ-ORC- Traceability GEN28, REQ-ORC-O2-46, REQ-ORC-O2-64, REQ-ORC-O2-65

#### 3.10.2.3 UML sequence diagram

## 3.11 Provisioning Use Cases

### 3.11.1 Network Resource Provisioning for base O-Cloud Site Network Use
Case

#### 3.11.1.1 High level description
This use case describes the procedure for SMO to provision the base O-Cloud Site Network, realized on the O-Cloud Site Network Fabric, which provides infrastructure-level network connectivity within the O-Cloud Site and enables connectivity among O-Cloud Nodes and with the O-Cloud Site Gateway, which can be connected to transport networks outside of the O-Cloud Site.
> NOTE 1: The provisioning of the base O-Cloud Site Network results in the creation of the O-Cloud Site Network
enabling the network connectivity referenced above. Additional O-Cloud Site Networks can be provisioned by additional provisioning procedures to fulfill other requirements of connectivity, e.g., O- Cloud Site Networks used as O-Cloud Node Cluster Networks, which are described in other use cases.
> NOTE 2: Even though the use case describes a single base O-Cloud Site Network, it is not limited that multiple O-
Cloud Site Networks can be provisioned. This procedure can be invoked independently to the existing O-Cloud Basic Use Case specified in clause 3.1.

#### 3.11.1.2 Sequence description
Use Case <<Uses>> Evolution / Specification Stage Related use Network resource provisioning for the O-Cloud Site Network enabling Goal O-Cloud Nodes to be interconnected as well as with transport networks via O-Cloud Site Gateway. SMO: FOCOM Actors and Roles IMS Network Operator Network resources of the O-Cloud Site Network Fabric have not Assumptions been provisioned for base O-Cloud Site Network. 1) SMO and IMS are available. 2) Network connectivity exists between the O-Cloud and SMO. Preconditions 3) The compute systems for the O-Cloud Nodes and the O-Cloud Network Fabric are physically interconnected (i.e., cables are wired). Network operator decides to provision O-Cloud Site Network to Begins when enable O-Cloud Site Network Fabric resources for the base O-Cloud Site Network. SMO sends a request to the IMS using O2ims services to provision the O-Cloud Site network to enable O-Cloud Site Network Fabric Step 1 (M) resources for the base O-Cloud Site Network, which enables network connectivity among O-Clouds Nodes. IMS sends a response to the SMO to inform that the request is accepted and it starts provisioning. IMS performs the O-Cloud Site Network Fabric resource provisioning for the base O-Cloud Site Step 2 (M) Network to the O-Cloud Node and if necessary, set specific L2 level configuration on the O-Cloud Site Network Fabric and O-Cloud Site Gateway for L3 level as well. (NOTE) IMS informs the SMO of the success or failure of the network Step 3 (M) provisioning request. Network resources for the base O-Cloud Site Network are Ends when provisioned. Exceptions None identified. Network resources for the base O-Cloud Site Network have been provisioned and network connectivity has been established between Post Conditions O-Cloud Nodes and with transport network via O-Cloud Site Gateway. REQ-ORC-O2-45, REQ-ORC-O2-46 Traceability
> NOTE: Network resource provisioning for the base O-Cloud Site Network can be also performed, e.g.,
during O-Cloud Platform Software Installation Use Case described in clause 3.1.2.

#### 3.11.1.3 UML sequence diagram

### 3.11.2 Create O-Cloud Node Cluster Use Cases

#### 3.11.2.1 General
There are two methods for creating an O-Cloud Node Cluster. The first use case focuses on create a Kubernetes (K8s) Cluster and is tailored to establish a containerized K8s environment. The second use case leverages an O-Cloud Template, which uses a declarative approach. The template specifies the desired state and target configuration for the O- Cloud, ensuring that the necessary computing, storage, and network resources are allocated to form the O-Cloud Node Cluster. The resulting O-Cloud Node Cluster can be of any type, such as Kubernetes (K8s), bare metal, virtual machines or other configurations.

#### 3.11.2.2 Create Kubernetes (K8s) Cluster

##### 3.11.2.2.1 High level description
This use case describes the processing of a request to create a single Kubernetes (K8s) Cluster from the FOCOM towards the IMS at the O-Cloud. The use case aims to assign a suitable set of computer systems, storage resources and network connectivity as a basis for a K8s Cluster, to establish a K8s Cluster in the O-Cloud and to inform the requesting entity what has been created. Before this use case is started it is expected that SMO has concluded that a new K8s Cluster needs to be created in a specific O-Cloud. When the use case is concluded, any modified O-Cloud (exposed) Resources are updated in the O-Cloud Inventory model.
> NOTE: A Kubernetes (K8s) Cluster is an example of O-Cloud Node Cluster supporting container infrastructure
services.

##### 3.11.2.2.2 Sequence description
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Use Case Title Create Kubernetes (K8s) Cluster The goals of this use case are to: Goal 1. Assign suitable computer systems, storage resources, and networking connectivity as a basis for a new K8s Cluster. 2. Establish a new K8s Cluster in the O-Cloud. 3. Inform the requestor (normally FOCOM) that the K8s Cluster deployment management applications are operational and communicate the DMS Endpoint associated to the new K8s Cluster. (NOTE 1) Service Management Orchestrator (SMO) – The SMO provides the “requirements” and needs for CNFs, and the K8s Cluster to be created. FOCOM is the endpoint for O2ims at the SMO as a client to IMS in the O-Cloud. Actors and Roles Infrastructure Management Services (IMS) – The IMS Provisions Abstracted Resources. The IMS functionality in the O-Cloud is the manager side of the endpoint for FOCOM. The following assumptions are relevant to this use case: 1. Bare Metal infrastructure – It is assumed that O-Cloud Resources form a bare metal hardware infrastructure that will be used by the K8s Cluster. Assumptions 2. O-Cloud Site Network Fabric – The O-Cloud Site Network enabling connectivity among O-Cloud Nodes is established and available. 3. O-Cloud exists – The O-Cloud is running and has undergone genesis. 4. External Storage Resources – External storage resources are available so that K8s Clusters can be connected to the external storage resource. The following preconditions are used by this use case: 1. Bare Metal deployed – The deployment of the hardware infrastructure layer has been successfully performed. This is done either as operator on- premises cloud resources or made available from a Cloud Provider. The Preconditions hardware infrastructure layer includes O-Cloud internal resources such as computer systems, network resources, and storage resources. 2. IMS operational – The IMS services in the O-Cloud are active and operational. For the IMS to be running, it is assumed that the O-Cloud is configured, active and in a running state. 3. Connectivity & Authorized – The O-Cloud has connectivity and authorization allowing communication with the SMO. Begins when This use case begins when there is a request to create a K8s Cluster. REQUEST TO CREATE KUBERNETES (K8s) CLUSTER – A request to create new Kubernetes (K8s) Cluster is sent from FOCOM to IMS with the Cluster ID. The request can contain or reference a Cluster Template, which describes the declarative target for the O-Cloud Node Cluster. At the IMS, the (O- Cloud internal) resources are booked for the new K8s Cluster. The IMS marks the resources as booked for new K8s Cluster with the Cluster ID. (NOTE 2) (NOTE 3) The request from the SMO (FOCOM) for a new K8s Cluster on an O-Cloud Site near a Location from the O-Cloud (IMS Provisioning Service) provides some of the following input objectives. FOCOM requests a new K8s Cluster in a Location with “X” vCPU performance and “Y” Memory from the IMS Provisioning Service. In addition, the following non-exhaustive list of requirements will be transferred, directly or by reference, to IMS by means of a Cluster Template. The requirements defined in 3 Step 1 (M) through 7 might need to be repeated per Node Pool Group/Type (Definition of these requirements are FFS). 1. LOCATION: Kubernetes (K8s) Cluster shall be [On] or [Near] a given geographic Location. 2. LABELS: K8s Cluster shall have the following Labels (if that is required). a. Labels can be requested on Cluster and/or NodePool levels b. Taints – Taints can be applied by IMS at creation to support the DMS to place Pods according to its demands defined by Tolerances. Taints can be considered as a special preconfigured Label. Taints should be possible to be given as requirements by the requestor of a K8s Cluster (or later update) and applied by the IMS logic. 3. COMPUTE/MEMORY: K8s Cluster shall have at least “X” vCPU as performance and “Y” amount of Memory (CPU RAM). 4. NODES: K8s Cluster shall have a minimum of “Z” nodes (if that is required). 5. SPECIAL NEEDS: This defines if there are special needs or capabilities for the Host/Node. Some examples of special needs are Host Profiles, Accelerators, and Affinity rules. The special needs are for FFS. 6. NETWORKING: K8s Cluster and/or its Nodes shall have the following capabilities (some of them also created with the K8s initial creation). (NOTE 4) O-Cloud Networking objectives (one or more where applicable) are specified: a. NIC with I/F Type [Std] or [SR-IOV]. b. External DC-GW (N-S) connectivity [Port, Encapsulation-method and Traffic Type Identifier] (e.g. VLAN ID on a Port). c. K8s Cluster Nodes (as O-Cloud Nodes) shall be transparently connected as [Pod Access I/F] or [Pod Trunk I/F]. d. O-Cloud Internal (E-W) Inter-Cluster network (never leaves the O- Cloud). e. O-Cloud Site Internal (E-W) Inter-Cluster network (never leaves the O-Cloud Site). f. K8s Cluster (E-W) Intra-Cluster network (never leaves the Cluster). g. Minimum requirement on its Network Attachment Definition in the K8s Cluster. 7. STORAGE: K8S Cluster and/or its Nodes shall have the following capabilities (some of them also created with the K8s initial creation) for O- Cloud Storage objectives (one or more where applicable) are specified: a. Capacity – How much storage is needed. b. Storage Classes – This indicates factors for the storage offered. Abstracts underlying implementation detail. Storage Classes definitions/categories will be FFS. c. Persistency –If storage is requested to be of a persistent storage type it implies that the storage data will survive restarts. d. Dynamic creation supported – This indicates if dynamic creation of storage is supported or whether the storage is statically allocated. e. Redundancy – Indicates if the storage is redundant. 8. K8s VERSION: K8s Cluster shall have a specific [Version]. 9. CLUSTER/DEPLOYMENT TYPE: Some expected cluster types will be FFS. (if that is required) (Type can be Native K8s…). Based on deployment model. The deployment type and cluster type will be FFS. For instance, high-availability, redundancy, topology, and resiliency requirements of the cluster are FFS. 10. USER CREDENTIALS: The Create K8s Cluster request has User Credentials. Security Policies are executed. (NOTE 5) O-CLOUD PROCESSING OF THE CREATE - The following things happen within the O-Cloud if suitable resources are found:  The IMS creates a new Kubernetes (K8s) Cluster ID.  The IMS books resources in the O-Cloud for the new Kubernetes (K8s) Cluster.  The IMS marks the resources as booked for the new Kubernetes (K8s) Cluster ID.  The IMS creates the Kubernetes (K8s) Cluster by allocating the required O- Cloud Resources. Step 2 (ALT)  The IMS starts the Kubernetes (K8s) Cluster and configures the requested cluster-wide services including CRDs, CNIs, CSIs, and Network Interface Connection Points. (NOTE 6)  Required Kubernetes K8s Operators get created. These operators are created based on input requirements from Step 1. There could be different operators for other operations, for example, "networking".  Native Kubernetes microservices are spawned and given associated namespaces.  Platform service(s) are installed with a namespace that is provided by the platform service package or overridden by the cluster lifecycle manager. A platform service package is a bundle of service(s) that provide an application with specific service(s). However, these platform service(s) are not contained in the deployment of the application. The platform service(s) might be exposed as a capability of the K8s Cluster on which a package is installed. (NOTE 7) (NOTE 8)  Requested initial pre-provisioned configurations are set. For example, the initial Network Attachment Definitions (NAD).  A DMS user and/or credentials with limited and authorized privileges and permissions as per agreed security policies (FFS) is added.  The IMS assigns the DMS user credentials to the K8s Cluster. This means that the DMS is created and/or associated with the K8s Cluster. (NOTE 9) RESPONSE TO CREATE KUBERNETES (K8s) CLUSTER – After the above happens, the IMS responds to the create Kubernetes (K8s) Cluster request with the DMS end point and Kubernetes (K8s) Cluster ID. The O-Cloud (exposed) Inventory is also updated to reflect any changes in the use of O-Cloud Resources. (NOTE 10) EXCEPTION: RESPONSE TO INSUFFICIENT RESOURCES FOUND – There were insufficient resources to be able to create the requested Kubernetes (K8s) Cluster. In Step 3 (ALT) this case, the IMS responds to the request that there are insufficient suitable resources. IMS cleans up all internal actions for this request. (NOTE 11) (NOTE 12) EXCEPTION: RESPONSE TO MALFORMED REQUEST – The request had an incorrect format and was not understood by the IMS. An unsuccessful create request Step 4 (ALT) is returned to the requestor. The request was non-sensical or the parameters comprising the request do not make sense. IMS cleans up all internal actions for this request. (NOTE 13) This use case ends when the Kubernetes (K8s) Cluster is created, or the use case Ends when has encountered an exception. INSUFFICIENT RESOURCES – If there are insufficient resources to fulfill the request. The request to create a Kubernetes Cluster cannot be performed. Exceptions MALFORMED REQUEST – The request had an incorrect format and could not be processed by the IMS. The request to create a Kubernetes Cluster is rejected. SUCCESS: There is a new provisioned K8s Cluster with a K8s Cluster ID. There are provisioned resources for the new K8s Cluster. The requested O-Cloud networking and connectivity to support the K8s Cluster has been established. Post-conditions The O-Cloud (exposed) Inventory is updated with the with newly created K8s Cluster as a Resource instance of a specific Resource Type. Resource Type is FFS. FAILURE: The state of the O-Cloud and IMS is in the same state as before the request arrived: no resources are booked, and no IDs are assigned. Traceability REQ-ORC-O2-47, REQ-ORC-O2-48, REQ-ORC-O2-49
> NOTE 1: The intent is to hide all O-Cloud internal implementation specific actions that the IMS implementations need to
do to create the requested K8s Cluster. The O-Cloud internally will search for and book usable O-Cloud internal resources (whose exposure to the SMO depends on the resource view and inventories resources exposed by the IMS) to create a new K8s Cluster that satisfies the request.
> NOTE 2: Within this use case, the term “booked resource” is a resource that has been reserved internal to the O-Cloud.
As compared to an allocated resource which is a term that describes a booked resource that is externally exposed.
> NOTE 3: The create K8s Cluster request only exposes Worker nodes. The IMS internally manages supporting nodes
(e.g. Control Plane nodes) which are not exposed.
> NOTE 4: the following traffic requirements relate to Primary Networks and Secondary Networks. However, the
expression of these is FFS.
> NOTE 5: These user credentials are later used to authorize the user to have access to or use the created K8s Cluster
based on their role privilege (DMS privileges).
> NOTE 6: The management and configuration of “Cloud Provider Controllers” is FFS.
> NOTE 7: An application here is any type of software that consume the platform service(s).
> NOTE 8: The scope of the platform services can be within a namespace or cluster-wide.
> NOTE 9: The DMS user credentials will allow workload placement later onto the K8s Cluster. DMS is not the K8s
control plane, just a slice of the functionality exposed by the K8s control plane.
> NOTE 10: The IMS may indicate that resources are found, booked, and creation will start. Though this will be further
defined in the protocol specifications.
> NOTE 11: The IMS “cleans up”, meaning that any internal activities and reservations that occurred in processing the
failed request are reversed.
> NOTE 12: if some resources were found that match the request, but insufficient to fully satisfy the request, the IMS will
respond insufficient resources found. It is up to the requestor to query and reformulate a new request.
> NOTE 13: The IMS “cleans up” meaning that any internal activities and reservations that occurred in processing the
failed request are reversed.

##### 3.11.2.2.3 UML sequence diagram

#### 3.11.2.3 Create O-Cloud Node Cluster using O-Cloud Template

##### 3.11.2.3.1 High Level Description
This use case describes the processing of a request to create a single O-Cloud Node Cluster using a O-Cloud Template from the SMO (FOCOM) towards the IMS at the O-Cloud. The use case aims to assign a suitable set of computer systems, storage resources and network connectivity as a basis O-Cloud Node Cluster to establish a Node Cluster in the O-Cloud and to inform the requesting entity what has been created. Before this use case is started it is expected that SMO has concluded that a new Node Cluster needs to be created in a specific O-Cloud. When the use case is concluded, the relevant modeled representation of O-Cloud resources are updated with the newly created O-Cloud Node Cluster and its references to other resources.

##### 3.11.2.3.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Use Case Title Create O-Cloud Node Cluster using O-Cloud Template The goals of this use case are to: 1. Assign suitable computer systems, storage resources, and networking connectivity as a basis for a new Node Cluster. 2. Establish a new Node Cluster in the O-Cloud using O-Cloud Template. Goal 3. Inform the requestor (normally FOCOM) that the O-Cloud Node Cluster is operational and communicate the DMS Endpoint associated to the new O- Cloud Node Cluster. See NOTE 1. Service Management Orchestrator (SMO) – The SMO provides the “requirements” and needs for CNFs, and the O-Cloud Node Cluster to be created. FOCOM is the endpoint for O2ims at the SMO as a client to IMS in the O-Cloud. Actors and Roles Infrastructure Management Services (IMS) – The IMS Provisions Abstracted Resources. The IMS functionality in the O-Cloud is the manager side of the endpoint for FOCOM. The following assumptions are relevant to this use case: 1. Infrastructure – It is assumed that O-Cloud Resources form an infrastructure that will be used by the O-Cloud Node Cluster. 2. Underlay Network – The underlay network is established and available. 3. O-Cloud exists – The O-Cloud is running and has undergone genesis. 4. Storage Resources – storage resources are available so that O-Cloud Node Clusters can be provided with storage resource. Assumptions 5. O-Cloud Template – It is assumed that the O-Cloud Template referenced in the Provisioning Request exists in the O-Cloud Template catalog for both SMO and corresponding O-Cloud. 6. A Provisioning Request shall be capable of creating a Node Cluster based on the O-Cloud Template. 7. The Provisioning Request object may include required or optional input parameters according to an input data template parameter schema definition in the O-Cloud Template. 8. The Provisioning Request object is a declarative definition of the reference to a Template and corresponding required or optional parameters. The following preconditions are used by this use case: 1. Infrastructure deployed – The deployment of the infrastructure layer has been successfully performed. This is done either as operator on-premises cloud resources or made available from a Cloud Provider. The infrastructure layer includes O-Cloud internal resources such as computer systems, network resources, and storage resources. Preconditions 2. SMO is aware of what parameters if any to be supplied with the request. 3. IMS operational – The IMS services in the O-Cloud are active and operational. For the IMS to be running, it is assumed that the O-Cloud is configured, active and in a running state. 4. Connectivity & Authorized – The O-Cloud has connectivity and authorization allowing communication with the SMO. Begins when This use case begins when there is a request to create a O-Cloud Node Cluster. REQUEST TO CREATE O-CLOUD NODE CLUSTER –

# A Provisioning Request object to create new O-Cloud Node Cluster using an O- Cloud Template is sent from SMO (FOCOM) to IMS. The request contains a
reference to an O-Cloud Template in the catalog, which describes the declarative target for the O-Cloud Node Cluster. At the IMS, the (O-Cloud internal) resources are booked for the new O-Cloud Node Cluster. Step 1 (M) The template and provisioning request provide requirements about capacity and capabilities of the O-Cloud Node Cluster related to number of O-Cloud Nodes, compute and storage types and capacities, requirements for the O-Cloud Node Cluster Site Networks, location of the O-Cloud Node Cluster, and other characterizations. See NOTE 2. O-CLOUD PROCESSING OF THE PROVISIONING REQUEST OBJECT - The IMS responds to SMO (FOCOM), confirming that the Provisioning Request object has been created. The following things happen within the O-Cloud if suitable resources are found:  The IMS creates a new O-Cloud Cluster ID.  The IMS books resources in the O-Cloud for the new Node Cluster.  The IMS marks the resources as booked for the new O-Cloud Cluster ID. Step 2 (ALT)  Refer to Step 3-4 for monitoring the status of the Provisioning Request.  The IMS creates the Node Cluster by allocating the required O-Cloud Resources.  The IMS updates the Provisioning Request object status throughout the Node Cluster creation progress. SUCCESSFUL CREATION OF NODE CLUSTER After the above happens, the IMS updates the Provisioning Request object with the corresponding successful status. A new or existing DMS endpoint is associated with the provisioned O-Cloud Node Cluster. The relevant modeled representation of O-Cloud resources are updated with the newly created O-Cloud Node Cluster and its references to other resources. See NOTE 3. The process of creating O-Cloud Node Cluster may take significant time. During this period, SMO could monitor the provisioning status until the creation request is either successfully completed or has failed. See NOTE 4. The SMO (FOCOM) begins monitoring the status of the Provisioning Request object:  A Provisioning Request object status request is sent from the SMO (FOCOM) to the IMS.  A response from IMS to SMO (FOCOM) is sent containing the current Provisioning Request object status Step 3-4 (PAR) EXCEPTION: INSUFFICIENT RESOURCES – There were insufficient resources to be able to create the requested O-Cloud Node Cluster. In this case, the IMS updates the Provisioning Request object that there are insufficient suitable resources. IMS cleans up all internal actions for this request. EXCEPTION: CREATION FAILED – The creation of a new O-Cloud Node Cluster could not be completed. In this case, the IMS updates the Provisioning Request object that the creation has failed. IMS cleans up all internal actions for this request. See NOTE 5 and NOTE 6. EXCEPTION: MALFORMED REQUEST – The request had an incorrect format and was not understood by the IMS. An unsuccessful Provisioning Request response is returned to the requestor. The request was non-sensical or the parameters Step 5 (ALT) comprising the request do not make sense. IMS cleans up all internal actions for this request. See NOTE 7. This use case ends when the O-Cloud Node Cluster is created, or the use case has Ends when encountered an exception. INSUFFICIENT RESOURCES – If there are insufficient resources to fulfill the request. The request to create a O-Cloud Node Cluster cannot be performed. CREATION FAILED – The creation of a new O-Cloud Node Cluster couldn’t be completed. Exceptions MALFORMED REQUEST – The request had an incorrect format and could not be processed by the IMS. The request to create an O-Cloud Node Cluster is rejected. SUCCESS: There is a new provisioned O-Cloud Node Cluster with an O-Cloud Cluster ID. Post-conditions There are provisioned resources for the new O-Cloud Node Cluster. A new or existing DMS endpoint is associated with the provisioned O-Cloud Node Cluster. See NOTE 8. The relevant modeled representation of O-Cloud resources are updated with the newly created O-Cloud Node Cluster and its references to other resources. FAILURE: The state of the O-Cloud and IMS is in the same state as before the request arrived: no resources are booked, and no IDs are assigned. Traceability REQ-ORC-O2-49, REQ-ORC-O2-107, REQ-ORC-O2-108
> NOTE 1: The intent is to hide all O-Cloud internal implementation specific actions
that the IMS implementations need to do to create the requested O-Cloud Node Cluster. The O-Cloud internally will search for and book usable O-Cloud internal resources (whose exposure to the SMO depends on the resource view and inventories resources exposed by the IMS) to create a new O-Cloud Node Cluster that satisfies the request.
> NOTE 2: Within this use case, the term “booked resource” is a resource that has
been reserved internal to the O-Cloud. As compared to an allocated resource which is a term that describes a booked resource that is externally exposed. Provisioning Request
> NOTE 3: The IMS may indicate that resources are found, booked, and creation will
start by updating the Provisioning Request object. Though this will be further defined in the protocol specifications. Notes
> NOTE: 4: The IMS may also indicate via a notification to the SMO the successful or
failed creation of the O-Cloud Node Cluster.
> NOTE 5: The IMS “cleans up”, meaning that any internal activities and reservations
that occurred in processing the failed request are reversed.
> NOTE 6: If some resources were found that match the request, but insufficient to
fully satisfy the request, the IMS will respond insufficient resources found. It is up to the requestor to track the Provisioning Request object and reformulate a new request.
> NOTE 7: The IMS “cleans up” meaning that any internal activities and reservations
that occurred in processing the failed request are reversed.
> NOTE 8: Access to the DMS also requires credentials or access rights to the
endpoint.

##### 3.11.2.3.3 UML Sequence Diagram

### 3.11.3 Delete O-Cloud Node Cluster Use Cases

#### 3.11.3.1 Delete Kubernetes (K8s) Cluster Use Case

##### 3.11.3.1.1 High Level Description
This use case describes the processing of a request to delete a single Kubernetes (K8s) Cluster from FOCOM to IMS in the O-Cloud. The objective of the operation is to delete a previously created Kubernetes Cluster. This is part of a family of O2 IMS Provisioning operations related to Kubernetes Clusters. When the use case is concluded, the specified Kubernetes (K8s) Cluster in the O-Cloud is deleted. Typically, the associated (exposed) O-Cloud Resources are released and updated in the O-Cloud Inventory model. Depending on implementation the O-Cloud Resources may not immediately be released.

##### 3.11.3.1.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> USE CASE EVOLUTION / SPECIFICATION STAGE Related Use Use Case Title Delete Kubernetes (K8s) Cluster The goals of this use case are to: Goal 1. Delete an existing K8s Cluster in the O-Cloud. 2. Release assigned O-Cloud Resources from the K8s Cluster. 3. Inform the requestor (normally FOCOM) that the K8s Cluster has been deleted. Service Management Orchestrator (SMO) – The FOCOM in the SMO is the consumer that will request the deletion of the K8s Cluster. Actors and Roles Infrastructure Management Services (IMS) – The IMS processes the request for the deletion of the K8s Cluster. The O-Cloud IMS functionality acts as a manager for any requesting authorized client. The following assumption is relevant to this use case: 1. Kubernetes Cluster exists – An existing Kubernetes Cluster has been previously created. Assumptions 2. Workload migration – If the user of the cluster would like to migrate any traffic that it is interested in, it is assumed that such traffic has already been migrated away. This should be done at the SMO. 3. Clean up – It is assumed that the SMO would have deleted the relevant O-RAN NF before the delete cluster request is sent. The following preconditions are used by this use case: 4. IMS operational – The IMS in the O-Cloud is active and operational. For Preconditions the IMS to be running, it is assumed that the O-Cloud is configured, active and in a running state. 5. Connectivity & Authorized – The O-Cloud has connectivity and authorization allowing communication with the SMO. Begins when This use case begins when there is a request to delete a K8s Cluster. REQUEST TO DELETE KUBERNETES (K8s) CLUSTER – Step 1 (M) A request to delete an existing Kubernetes (K8s) Cluster is sent from FOCOM to IMS with the Cluster ID over the O2 IMS interface.
> NOTE 1: Cluster ID is an O-Cloud unique identity for the specific Cluster to be
deleted. Its exact place in the information model and format are FFS. O-CLOUD PROCESSES THE DELETE K8s CLUSTER - Note: see also the O- The following steps are done by the IMS in the O-Cloud to process the K8s Cluster Cloud deletion request: Inventory Update Use  The IMS will gracefully terminate the cluster, release its resources, and Case update the O-Cloud Resource configurations. o If the Cluster is non-responsive, then the IMS performs a forceful delete of the association of the O-Cloud Resources to the cluster and update the configurations.  Delete K8s Cluster ID – The K8s Cluster ID in the request is deleted.  Clean internal resources – The O-Cloud internal resources are cleaned.  Release resources - Typically, the associated (exposed) O-Cloud Resources are released and updated in the O-Cloud Inventory model. Depending on implementation the O-Cloud Resources may not be immediately released.  Inventory updated – The O-Cloud inventory for O-Cloud resources is updated when resources are released. Step 2 (ALT)  List of Clusters is updated – The O-Cloud inventory that lists the clusters is updated.  Cluster endpoint deleted – The corresponding Cluster endpoint is deleted.  NOTE 2: There are cases where a deletion request could not be processed properly. For example, a token mismatch where the connections are bad, a CNI (container network interface) connectivity issue, or Kubeconfig error where the registry is not deleted. This may place the K8s cluster in a Terminating or Pending state. In this case, the IMS will get an indication that the K8s termination error is returned.
> NOTE 3: When the delete K8s Cluster operation is executed, the nodes in the
cluster are not drained before deletion.
> NOTE 4: Void
RESPONSE TO DELETE KUBERNETES (K8s) CLUSTER – After the above happens, the IMS then responds to the delete Kubernetes (K8s) request with the response over the O2 IMS interface. The O-Cloud (exposed) Inventory is also updated to reflect any changes in the use of O-Cloud Resources. EXCEPTION: KUBERNETES CLUSTER NOT FOUND – The requested Step 3 (ALT) Kubernetes Cluster ID was not found or does not exist in the O-Cloud. This use case ends when the Kubernetes (K8s) Cluster is deleted, or the use case Ends when has encountered an exception. KUBERNETES CLUSTER NOT FOUND – The requested Kubernetes Cluster ID Exceptions was not found or does not exist in the O-Cloud. SUCCESS: The K8s Cluster with requested K8s Cluster ID has been deleted. Resources are released for the deleted K8s Cluster. The requested O-Cloud networking and connectivity to support the K8s Cluster are Post-conditions released.
> NOTE 5: if there are any faults in the O-Cloud Resources those should be reported
through normal Fault Management Operations. The O-Cloud (exposed) Inventory is updated reflect the deletion of the K8s Cluster. When the delete Kubernetes Cluster operation is done, IMS performs the internal clean up and reports resultant updates to O-Cloud inventory and communicate changes for those resources. FAILURE: The state of the O-Cloud and IMS is in the same state as before the bad request arrived. No Kubernetes Cluster is affected or altered. Traceability Requirement [REQ-ORC-O2-61], [REQ-ORC-O2-62], [REQ-ORC-O2-63]

##### 3.11.3.1.3 UML Sequence Diagram

#### 3.11.3.2 Delete O-Cloud Node Cluster Created Using O-Cloud Cluster Template Use
Case

##### 3.11.3.2.1 High Level Description
This use case describes the processing of a request to delete an O-Cloud Node Cluster from FOCOM to IMS in the O- Cloud that was previously created using O-Cloud Cluster Template. The objective of the operation is to delete a previously created O-Cloud Node Cluster. This is part of a family of O2 IMS Provisioning operations related to O- Cloud Node Clusters.

##### 3.11.3.2.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> USE CASE EVOLUTION / SPECIFICATION STAGE Related Use Use Case Title Delete O-Cloud Node Cluster Created Using O-Cloud Cluster Template Use Case The goals of this use case are to: Goal  Delete an existing O-Cloud Node Cluster in the O-Cloud.  Release assigned O-Cloud Resources from the O-Cloud Node Cluster. Service Management Orchestrator (SMO) – The FOCOM in the SMO is the consumer that will request the deletion of the O-Cloud Node Cluster. Actors and Roles Infrastructure Management Services (IMS) – The IMS processes the request for the deletion of the O-Cloud Node Cluster. The O-Cloud IMS functionality acts as a manager for any requesting authorized client. The following assumption is relevant to this use case: 1. O-Cloud Node Cluster exists – An existing O-Cloud Node Cluster has been previously created. Assumptions 2. Workload migration – if the user of the cluster would like to migrate any traffic that it is interested in, it is assumed that such traffic has already been migrated away. This should be done at the SMO. 3. Clean up – It is assumed that the SMO would have deleted the relevant O-RAN NF before the delete cluster request is sent The following preconditions are used by this use case:
- IMS operational – The IMS in the O-Cloud is active and operational.
Preconditions For the IMS to be running, it is assumed that the O-Cloud is configured, active and in a running state.
- Connectivity & Authorized – The O-Cloud has connectivity and
authorization allowing communication with the SMO. Begins when This use case begins when there is a request to delete an O-Cloud Node Cluster. REQUEST TO DELETE O-CLOUD NODE CLUSTER A request to delete an existing O-Cloud Node Cluster is sent from FOCOM to IMS Step 1 (M) to delete an existing Provisioning Request Object. See NOTE 1. RESPONSE TO DELETE PROVISIONING REQUEST OBJECT Step 2 (ALT) After the above happens, the IMS then responds to the delete Provisioning Request with the response over the O2 IMS interface. O-CLOUD PROCESSES THE DELETE PROVISIONING REQUEST The following steps are done by the IMS in the O-Cloud to process the delete ProvisioningRequest object associated with the O-Cloud Node Cluster 1. The IMS will gracefully start terminating the O-Cloud Node Cluster, release its resources, and update the O-Cloud Resource configurations. 2. The ProvisioningRequest object is updated with the status 3. Clean internal resources – The O-Cloud internal resources are cleaned. SMO (FOCOM) begins monitoring the status of the Provisioning Request object:  A Provisioning Request object status request is sent from the SMO to the IMS. Step 3-4 (PAR)  A response from IMS to SMO is sent containing the current status of the Delete Provisioning Request status. EXCEPTION: DELETE FAILED – Delete of the O-Cloud Node Cluster could not be completed. The Provisioning Request object is updated with an error status. IMS cleans up all internal action for this request. This use case ends when the O-Cloud Node Cluster is deprovisioned and deleted Ends when and IMS deletes the Provisioning Request Object associated with the O-Cloud Node Cluster. MALFORMED REQUEST - The request had an incorrect format and could not be Exceptions processed by the IMS. The request to delete the Provisioning Request Object is rejected. SUCCESS: The O-Cloud Node Cluster is deprovisioned and Provisioning Request object is deleted. FAILURE: The state of the O-Cloud and IMS is in the same state as before one of the exception cases were encountered. No O-Cloud Node Cluster is affected or altered. Resources are released for the deleted O-Cloud Node Cluster. See NOTE 2. Post-conditions The O-Cloud (exposed) Inventory is updated reflect the deletion of the O-Cloud Node Cluster. When the delete O-Cloud Node Cluster operation is done, IMS performs the internal clean up and reports resultant updates to O-Cloud inventory and communicate changes for those resources. FAILURE: The state of the O-Cloud and IMS is in the same state as before the bad request arrived. No O-Cloud Node Cluster is affected or altered. Traceability Requirement [REQ-ORC-O2-61], [REQ-ORC-O2-62], [REQ-ORC-O2-63]
> NOTE 1: The Provisioning Request Object identify the specific O-Cloud Node
Cluster. Notes
> NOTE 2: If there are any faults in the O-Cloud Resources those should be reported
through normal Fault Management Operations.

##### 3.11.3.2.3 UML Sequence Diagram

### 3.11.4 Update O-Cloud Node Cluster Use Cases

#### 3.11.4.1 General
An O-Cloud Node Cluster can be updated by adding or removing O-Cloud Nodes, or by adjusting its capabilities, and one option for doing so is by using an O-Cloud Template with a declarative approach. In this approach, the desired final state of the Node Cluster is specified within the template. The O-Cloud system automatically determines how to modify the existing resources such as computing, storage, and network capacity to meet the desired state.

#### 3.11.4.2 Update O-Cloud Node Cluster

##### 3.11.4.2.1 High Level Description
This use case describes the flow of a request to update a single O-Cloud Node Cluster with O-Cloud Node addition(s) or reduction(s), including adding/removing cluster capabilities. The update request of an O-Cloud Node Cluster originates from FOCOM and is sent towards the IMS within the O-Cloud. The objective of the operation is to update a previously created and configured O-Cloud Node Cluster. This is part of a family of O2 IMS Provisioning operations related to O-Cloud Node Clusters. An update of an O-Cloud Node Cluster can also include updates of configuration that are cluster-wide, and updating the capabilities of cluster, e.g., adding support for new types of resources comprising the O-Cloud Nodes or modes of network connectivity.
> NOTE: the operations that are performed during an update may be part of maintenance or management functions.
When the use case is concluded, the specified O-Cloud Node Cluster in the O-Cloud has been updated. A disruption policy is the amount of disruption allowed during the update operation. An update of an O-Cloud Node Cluster is manually initiated or automatically scheduled, planned, or triggered. This deployment-level tolerance for disruption is the number of O-Cloud Nodes that can become simultaneously unavailable during the update. For example, a deployment could be created with a disruption policy of losing up to 2 nodes. In this case, it would be possible to lose 2 nodes and continue while performing the cluster update. Each pod may have its own Disruption policy. The idea is to calculate how many nodes could be updated at a time.

##### 3.11.4.2.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> USE CASE EVOLUTION / SPECIFICATION STAGE Related Use Use Case Title Update O-Cloud Node Cluster The goals of this use case are to: 3.1.5 Hardware 1. Update a previously created and configured O-Cloud Node Cluster in the Infrastructur O-Cloud by adding or removing O-Cloud Nodes to make the resulting e Scaling of Goal cluster have increased or decreased capacities and/or capabilities for O-Cloud workload deployments. Post 2. Accommodate pre-planned upgrades. Deployment 3. Inform the requestor (normally FOCOM) that the O-Cloud Node Cluster has been updated. 4. Perform this upgrade below the allowed disruption policy. Service Management Orchestrator (SMO) – The FOCOM in the SMO is the consumer that will request for the O-Cloud Node Cluster to be updated. Actors and Roles Infrastructure Management Services (IMS) – The IMS processes the request for an O-Cloud Node Update. The following assumptions are relevant to this use case: 3.1.5 Hardware 1. O-Cloud Node Cluster exists – An existing O-Cloud Node Cluster has Infrastructur been previously created. e Scaling of 2. Disruption Policy – There is a known disruption policy. The update O-Cloud Assumptions operation takes place within the limits of the disruption policy. NOTE 1: Post The Cluster scheduler takes into account the disruption policy depending Deployment on a non-critical update operation (add, remove, upgrade a node). 3. Forced Update – The management system could initiate a forced O-Cloud Node update in critical situations irrespective of a disruption policy. NOTE 2: A forced update could impact the underlying NF SLA objectives within the cluster. 4. Migration – In case of removal of O-Cloud Nodes as part of the update, it is assumed that NFO has migrated relevant workloads (NF deployment units) away from the node that is to be removed so that the procedure could be performed within a disruption policy. 5. Hardware Infrastructure Scaling of an O-Cloud – It is assumed that at some point the Hardware Infrastructure has been installed, thus invoking the Hardware Infrastructure Scaling of an O-Cloud Use case. The Hardware is known for the O-Cloud. NOTE 3: The use case does not preclude that when adding new H/W, at the same time this same new H/W is also added to a cluster. 6. O-Cloud Node Role – When the Update request is received, it is assumed that the Role of the O-Cloud Node to be incorporated is known. The following preconditions are used by this use Case: Preconditions 1. IMS operational – The IMS in the O-Cloud is active and operational. 2. Connectivity & Authorized – The O-Cloud has connectivity and authorization allowing communication with the SMO. Begins when This use case begins when there is a request to Update an O-Cloud Node Cluster. REQUEST TO UPDATE O-CLOUD NODE CLUSTER – A request to update an existing O-Cloud Node Cluster is sent from FOCOM to IMS with the Cluster ID over the O2ims interface. The Request includes the Nodes to Step 1 (M) remove or the number and types of Nodes to add as well as their other cluster capabilities, for instance, network connectivity modes. The request can contain or reference a Cluster Template, which describes the declarative target for the O- Cloud Node Cluster to be realized with the update. O-CLOUD PROCESSES THE UPDATE O-CLOUD NODE CLUSTER - Note: see also 3.1.4 The following steps are done by the IMS in the O-Cloud to process the Update O- O-Cloud Cloud Node Cluster request: Inventory Update Use  Pod/Disruption Check –The IMS checks if the request can be honored Case with the appropriate disruption level including all relevant resources, for instance network requirements.  Network Feasibility Check – In the case that the update O-Cloud Node Cluster operation adds a node, the IMS performs feasibility checks for network related aspects.  Resource Check – IMS checks the resources associated and the IMS processes the request which is asking for O-Cloud resource additions or reductions.  Mark Roles for Nodes – If Nodes are added through the update Step 2 (M) operation, they are marked with their roles. NOTE 4: the role marking is FFS.  O-Cloud Node Addition/Removal – The IMS allocates or deallocates an O-Cloud Resource with the intention to start (addition) or stop (removal) using it as an O-Cloud Node.  Inventory Updates – The IMS updates the inventory for the DMS associated with the modified cluster to consider the changes in capabilities and/or capacity for the O-Cloud Node Cluster. If a subscription for notifications has been established, then a notification is sent to the SMO.
> NOTE 5: Update of the O-Cloud Node Cluster may also impact workloads
deployed from the NFO/DMS.
> NOTE 6: Additions and removals of O-Cloud Nodes will result in O-Cloud Node
Clusters that have increased or decreased capacities and/or capabilities for workload deployments. Step 3 (M) CONFIGURATION AND NETWORK RELATED UPDATES PROCESSED If the update is deemed feasible within disruption policy and with available resources, the configuration or network related impacts are processed. RESPONSE TO UPDATE O-CLOUD NODE CLUSTER – 3.1.4 O- Cloud After the above happens, the IMS then responds to the Update O-Cloud Node Inventory Step 4 (ALT) request with the response over the O2 IMS interface. Update Use Case
> NOTE 7: afterward, the SMO can process the inventory changes from O-Cloud
Node Update. See to 3.1.4 O-Cloud Inventory Update Use Case. EXCEPTION: O-CLOUD NODE CLUSTER NOT FOUND – The requested O-Cloud Node Cluster ID was not found or does not exist in the O-Cloud. Step 5 (ALT) The Use Case Ends. EXCEPTION: O-CLOUD NODE CLUSTER UNAVAILABLE – In this case a valid Cluster is found, however the O-Cloud Node cluster is Step 6 (ALT) unavailable, busy, or malfunctioning. The Use Case Ends. EXCEPTION: INSUFFICIENT RESOURCES TO PERFORM OPERATION Step 7 (ALT) The O-Cloud does not have enough resources to perform the Update operation. The Use Case Ends. EXCEPTION: DISRUPTION POLICY VIOLATION The O-Cloud cannot honour the disruption policy necessary to perform the update Step 8 (ALT) operation. The assumption of performing the operation within the policy was not fulfilled. The Use Case Ends. This Use Case Ends when a O-Cloud Node Cluster is updated, or the use case has Ends when encountered an exception. O-CLOUD NODE CLUSTER NOT FOUND – The requested O-Cloud Node Cluster ID was not found or does not exist in the O-Cloud. O-CLOUD NODE CLUSTER UNAVAILABLE – The O-Cloud Node Cluster is unavailable, busy, or malfunctioning. Exceptions INSUFFICIENT RESOURCES TO PERFORM OPERATION – There are insufficient resources to perform the Update operation. DISRUPTION POLICY VIOLATION – The Update operation cannot be performed within the disruption policy. SUCCESS: The O-Cloud Node Cluster with requested O-Cloud Node Cluster ID has been updated. Post-conditions FAILURE: The state of the O-Cloud and IMS is in the same state as before one of the exception cases were encountered. No O-Cloud Node Cluster is affected or altered. Traceability [REQ-ORC-O2-91], [REQ-ORC-O2-92], [REQ-ORC-O2-93]

##### 3.11.4.2.3 UML Sequence Diagram

#### 3.11.4.3 Update O-Cloud Node Cluster using O-Cloud Template

##### 3.11.4.3.1 High level description
This use case describes the flow of a request to update a single O-Cloud Node Cluster using O-Cloud Template. For example, O-Cloud Node addition(s) or reduction(s), including adding/removing cluster capabilities. The update request of an O-Cloud Node Cluster originates from FOCOM and is sent towards the IMS within the O-Cloud. The objective of the operation is to update a previously created and configured O-Cloud Node Cluster. This is part of a family of O2 IMS Provisioning operations related to O-Cloud Node Clusters. An update of an O-Cloud Node Cluster can also include updates of configuration that are cluster-wide, and updating the capabilities of cluster, e.g., adding support for new types of resources comprising the O-Cloud Nodes or modes of network connectivity. See NOTE 1 in clause 3.11.4.3.2. When the use case is concluded, the specified O-Cloud Node Cluster in the O-Cloud has been updated.

##### 3.11.4.3.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Use Case Title Update O-Cloud Node Cluster using O-Cloud Template The goals of this use case are to: 1. Update a previously created and configured O-Cloud Node Cluster in the O- Cloud using O-Cloud Template by referring to a new O-Cloud Template and/or Goal updated parameters to update the cluster accordingly. The updated cluster may have increased or decreased capabilities and/or capacities for workload deployments. 2. Inform the requestor (normally FOCOM) that the O-Cloud Node Cluster has been updated. Service Management Orchestrator (SMO) – The FOCOM in the SMO is the consumer that will request for the O-Cloud Node Cluster to be updated. Actors and Roles Infrastructure Management Services (IMS) – The IMS processes the request for an O-Cloud Node Update. The following assumption is relevant to this use case: Assumptions 1. O-Cloud Node Cluster exists – An existing O-Cloud Node Cluster has been previously created. The following preconditions are used by this use case: 1. IMS Operational – The IMS in the O-Cloud is active and operational. Preconditions 2. Connectivity & Authorized – The O-Cloud has connectivity and authorization allowing communication with the SMO. This use case begins when the FOCOM determines that an update of an O-Cloud Begins when Node Cluster is needed. The FOCOM sends to the IMS an update provisioning request. The Update Step 1 Provisioning Request object contains the reference of the O-Cloud Template along with all relevant parameters IMS PROCESSES THE UPDATE PROVISIONING REQUEST The following steps are done by the IMS in the O-Cloud to process the Update Step 2 (ALT) Provisioning Request:  Network Feasibility Check – In the case that the update O-Cloud Node Cluster operation adds a node, the IMS performs feasibility checks for network related aspects.  Resource Check – IMS checks the resources associated and the IMS processes the request which is asking for O-Cloud resource additions or reductions. See NOTE 2. RESPONSE TO UPDATE PROVISIONING REQUEST After the above happens, the IMS then responds to the Update Provisioning request Step 3 with a response over the O2 IMS interface back to the SMO (FOCOM). At this point refer to Step 5-6 for monitoring the Update Provisioning request status. IMS performs updates to O-Cloud Node Cluster based on the request. O-Cloud Node Addition/Removal – The IMS allocates or deallocates an O-Cloud Step 4 Resource with the intention to start (addition) or stop (removal) using it as an O- Cloud Node. See NOTE 3. SMO (FOCOM) begins monitoring the status of the Provisioning Request object:  A Provisioning Request object status request is sent from the SMO to the IMS.  A response from IMS to SMO is sent containing the current status of the Update Provisioning Request status. EXCEPTION: INSUFFICIENT RESOURCES - There were insufficient resources to Step 5-6 (PAR) be able to update the requested O-Cloud Node Cluster. In this case, the IMS updates the Provisioning Request object that there are insufficient suitable resources. IMS cleans up all internal actions for this request. EXCEPTION: UPDATE FAILED – Update of the O-Cloud Node Cluster could not be completed. The Provisioning Request object is updated with an error status. IMS cleans up all internal action for this request. See NOTE 4. This use case ends when an O-Cloud Node Cluster is updated using the Updated Ends when Provisioning Request, or the use case has encountered an exception. O-CLOUD NODE CLUSTER NOT FOUND – The requested O-Cloud Node Cluster ID was not found or does not exist in the O-Cloud. UPDATE FAILED – Update of O-Cloud Node Cluster could not be completed. INSUFFICIENT RESOURCES TO PERFORM OPERATION – There are insufficient Exceptions resources to perform the Update operation. MALFORMED REQUEST - The request had an incorrect format and could not be processed by the IMS. The request to update the Provisioning Request Object is rejected. See NOTE 5. SUCCESS: The O-Cloud Node Cluster with O-Cloud Node Cluster ID has been updated. Post-conditions FAILURE: The state of the O-Cloud and IMS is in the same state as before one of the exception cases were encountered. No O-Cloud Node Cluster is affected or altered. Traceability [REQ-ORC-O2-91], [REQ-ORC-O2-92], [REQ-ORC-O2-93]
> NOTE 1: The operations that are performed during an update can be part of
maintenance or management functions.
> NOTE 2: Update of the O-Cloud Node Cluster can also impact workloads deployed
from the NFO/DMS.
> NOTE 3: Additions and removals of O-Cloud Nodes will result in O-Cloud Node
Notes Clusters that have increased or decreased capacities and/or capabilities for workload deployments.
> NOTE 4: The IMS “cleans up” meaning that any internal activities and reservations
that occurred in processing the failed request are roll-backed.
> NOTE 5: The implementation might encounter more exceptions of what is described
in this current use case.

##### 3.11.4.3.3 UML Sequence Diagram

### 3.11.5 Provisioning of Infrastructure Resources using template

#### 3.11.5.1 General
This section describes the management and LCM use cases for managed Infrastructure Resources, using templates. The template concept, as described in GA&P section 3.4.3.8, can be used to specify a declarative target for the desired state of a set of Infrastructure Resources, represented by a provisioning request sent from SMO to IMS. Examples of Infrastructure Resources to which template-based provisioning can be applied are site networks, gateways and attachment circuits.

#### 3.11.5.2 Create Infrastructure Resources using template Use Case

##### 3.11.5.2.1 High Level Description
This use case describes the processing of a request to create a set of managed O-Cloud Infrastructure Resources based from a referenced declarative target of a template, sent from the SMO (FOCOM) towards IMS at O-Cloud. This use case aims to assign and configure a suitable set of O-Cloud Resources as the basis for the O-Cloud Infrastructure Resources and to enable the requestor to monitor the progress and verify that requested declarative target is fulfilled and operational. Before this use case is started it is expected that SMO has concluded that specific set of Infrastructure Resources needs to be created in a specific O-Cloud. When the use case is concluded, a set of relevant modeled representations of O- Cloud Infrastructure resources are created and exposed through the O-Cloud Infrastructure Resource objects, with references to its assigned O-Cloud Resources in the inventory.

##### 3.11.5.2.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Use Case Title Create Infrastructure Resources using Template Use Case The goals of this use case are to: 1. Create Infrastructure Resources as described by a declarative target represented by the template and Parameters supplied with the Goal Provisioning Request. 2. Enable the requestor to monitor the progress and verify that requested declarative target is fulfilled and operational. (NOTE 1) Service Management Orchestrator (SMO) – The SMO provides the “requirements” for the Infrastructure Resources to be created. FOCOM is the endpoint for O2ims at the SMO as a client to IMS in the O-Cloud. Actors and Roles Infrastructure Management Services (IMS) – The IMS Provisions Infrastructure Resources. The IMS functionality in the O-Cloud is the manager side of the endpoint for FOCOM. The following assumptions are relevant to this use case: 1. O-Cloud exists – The O-Cloud is running and has undergone genesis. Assumptions 2. Network Infrastructure – The Site Network Fabric and Site GW resources are available and operational. 3. The Provisioning Request referenced template may include required or optional input parameters. 4. The Provisioning Request referenced template and supplied parameters is a declarative definition of the expected Infrastructure Resource targets. The following preconditions are used by this use case: 1. The template referenced in the Provisioning Request exists in O-Cloud and corresponding template information is available to SMO Preconditions 2. SMO is aware of what parameters if any to be supplied with the request. 3. The O-Cloud has connectivity and authorization allowing communication with the SMO. This use case begins when there is a request to create a set of O-Cloud Begins when Infrastructure Resources. REQUEST TO CREATE O-CLOUD INFRASTRUCTURE RESOURCES - SMO (FOCOM) sends a request for a new Provisioning Request to be created by the IMS. The request contains a reference to a selected template, and all supplied mandatory and optional parameters as given by the Template, representing the declarative target of the requested set of O-Cloud Infrastructure Resources. Step 1 (M) IMS validates the request with the referenced Template and supplied parameters and creates a new Provisioning Request object upon success. A created Provisioning Request object is now exposed and can be discovered & accessed by SMO. RESPONSE TO PROVISIONING REQUEST CREATE REQUEST The IMS then responds to the Provisioning request create request with a response Step 2 over the O2 IMS interface back to the SMO (FOCOM). At this point refer to Step 4-5 for monitoring the Update Provisioning request status. O-CLOUD PROCESSING OF THE PROVISIONING REQUEST OBJECT - The following things happen within the O-Cloud if suitable resources are found:  The IMS creates resourceIDs for requested Infrastructure Resources.  The IMS books resources in the O-Cloud for the new Infrastructure Step 3 (ALT) Resources.  The IMS marks the internal resources as booked for their respective Infrastructure Resource ID.  Refer to Step 4-5 for monitoring the status of the Provisioning Request.  The IMS updates the Provisioning Request object status throughout the Infrastructure Resource creation progress. (NOTE 2) (NOTE 3) The process of creating managed Infrastructure Resources may take significant time. During this period, SMO could monitor the provisioning status until the creation request is either successfully completed or has failed. (NOTE 4) The SMO (FOCOM) begins monitoring the status of the Provisioning Request object: Step 4-5 (PAR)  A Provisioning Request object status request is sent from the SMO (FOCOM) to the IMS.  A response from IMS to SMO (FOCOM) is sent containing the current Provisioning Request object status EXCEPTION: INSUFFICIENT RESOURCES – There were insufficient resources to be able to fulfill Provisioning Request. In this case, the IMS updates the Provisioning Request object that there are insufficient suitable resources and publishes a list of successfully created Infrastructure Resources. A list of individual provisioning status of all Infrastructure Resource requested, including failed ones, is also published with Provisioning Request Status. IMS at O-Cloud continues to attempt acquiring required resources. EXCEPTION: CREATION FAILED – The creation of a new Infrastructure Resource is not completed due to some internal failure. In this case, the IMS updates the Provisioning Request object that the Infrastructure Resources provisioning has failed and publishes a list of successfully created Infrastructure Resources. A list of individual provisioning status of all Infrastructure Resource requested, including failed ones, is also published with Provisioning Request Status. IMS at O-Cloud bail- out on further processing of the provisioning request until further intervention from consumer (FOCOM) to update or delete the Provisioning Request. (NOTE 5) SUCCESSFUL CREATION OF INFRASTRUCTURE RESOURCES Step 6 (ALT) If all Infrastructure Resources requested by the Provisioning Request are created successfully, the IMS updates the Provisioning Request object with the successful status and information on created Infrastructure Resources. EXCEPTION: MALFORMED REQUEST – The request had an incorrect format and was not understood by the IMS. An unsuccessful Provisioning Request response is Step 7 (ALT) returned to the requestor. The request was non-sensical or the parameters comprising the request are not valid. IMS cleans up all internal actions for this request. This use case ends when all requested Infrastructure Resources are created, or the Ends when use case execution have encountered an exception where none, or just some of the Infrastructure Resources have been created. INSUFFICIENT RESOURCES – If there are insufficient resources to fulfill the request. The request to create the Infrastructure Resources cannot be performed. CREATION FAILED – The creation of a new Infrastructure Resource couldn’t be Exceptions completed. MALFORMED REQUEST – The request had an incorrect format and could not be processed by the IMS. The request to create a managed Infrastructure Resource is rejected. SUCCESS: There is a set of new provisioned Infrastructure Resources created with corresponding Infrastructure Resource ID. FAILURE:O-Cloud encounters failure in processing the Provisioning Request and it was possible to create only a subset of Infrastructure Resources requested. Post-conditions INSUFFICIENT RESOURCE: O-Cloud is experiencing insufficient resources to fulfill the provisioning request. It is possible that a subset of requested Infrastructure is successfully created and remaining are waiting for additional resources to fulfill the request. This situation shall change either on O-Cloud adding additional resources to fulfill the request or when SMO (FOCOM) updates the provisioning request. (NOTE 6) Traceability REQ-ORC-O2-109
> NOTE 1: The intent of using templates is to simplify the interactions between
consumers and the IMS implementations to create the requested Infrastructure Notes Resources. The O-Cloud internally will search for and book usable O-Cloud internal resources (whose exposure to the SMO depends on the resource view and inventories resources exposed by the IMS), to create new Infrastructure Resources that satisfies the request.
> NOTE 2: Within this use case, the term “booked resource” is a resource that has
been reserved internal to the O-Cloud. As compared to an allocated resource which is a term that describes a booked resource that is externally exposed.
> NOTE 3: The IMS may indicate that resources are found, booked, and creation will
start by updating the Provisioning Request object. Though this will be further defined in the protocol specifications.
> NOTE: 4: The IMS may also indicate via a notification to the SMO the successful or
failed creation of managed Infrastructure Resources.
> NOTE 5: If some resources were found that match the request, but insufficient to
fully satisfy the request, the IMS will respond insufficient resources found. It is up to the requestor to track the Provisioning Request object and reformulate a new request.
> NOTE 6: During the processing of a Provisioning Request for a set of Infrastructure
Resources, the provisioning status of each individual Infrastructure Resource is published with the Provisioning Request status, in a Resource Provisioning Status list.

##### 3.11.5.2.3 UML Sequence Diagram

#### 3.11.5.3 Update Infrastructure Resources using template

##### 3.11.5.3.1 High level description
This use case describes the processing of a request to update a set of Infrastructure Resources previously created using declarative target represented by the Provisioning Request based on a template. Updates may include Infrastructure Resource addition(s) or reduction(s), and updating resource configurations and capabilities. The update request for the Infrastructure Resources originates from FOCOM and is sent towards the IMS within the O-Cloud. The objective of the operation is to update a set of previously created and configured Infrastructure Resources. This is part of a family of O2 IMS Provisioning operations related to managed Infrastructure Resources. When the use case is concluded, the specified Infrastructure Resources in the O-Cloud has been updated according to the updated declarative target represented by the Provisioning Request.

##### 3.11.5.3.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Use Case Title Update Infrastructure Resources using Template The goals of this use case are to: 1. Update a previously created and configured Infrastructure Resources in the O- Cloud using template by referring to a new template and/or updated parameters to Goal update infrastructure resources accordingly. 2. Inform the requestor (normally FOCOM) that the Infrastructure Resources has been updated. Service Management Orchestrator (SMO) – The FOCOM in the SMO is the consumer that will request for the managed Infrastructure Resource to be updated. Actors and Roles Infrastructure Management Services (IMS) – The IMS processes the request for managed Infrastructure Resource Update. The following assumption is relevant to this use case: Assumptions 1. Infrastructure Resource exists – Infrastructure Resource that is requested to be updated, has been previously created. The following preconditions are used by this use case: 1. IMS Operational – The IMS in the O-Cloud is active and operational. Preconditions 2. Connectivity & Authorization – The O-Cloud has connectivity and authorization allowing communication with the SMO. This use case begins when the FOCOM determines that an update is needed for a Begins when set of previously created Infrastructure Resources. REQUEST TO UPDATE O-CLOUD INFRASTRUCTURE RESOURCES - Step 1 The FOCOM sends to the IMS a Provisioning Request update request. The updated Provisioning Request object contains the reference of the template along with all relevant parameters. RESPONSE TO PROVISIONING REQUEST UPDATE REQUEST IMS validates the request with the referenced Template and supplied parameters Step 2 and sends a response over the O2 IMS interface back to the SMO (FOCOM). At this point refer to Step 4 - 5 for monitoring the Update Provisioning request status. O-CLOUD PROCESSING OF THE UPDATED PROVISIONING REQUEST OBJECT The following steps are done by the IMS in the O-Cloud to process the Provisioning Request update request:  Resource Check – IMS checks the resources associated and the IMS Step 3 (ALT) processes the request which is asking for O-Cloud resource additions, reductions or updates.  Infrastructure Resource Update – The IMS performs updates to existing Infrastructure Resources based on the request.  Infrastructure Resource Addition/Removal – The IMS allocates or deallocates an O-Cloud Resource with the intention to start (addition) or stop (removal) using it. SMO (FOCOM) begins monitoring the status of the Provisioning Request object:  A Provisioning Request object status request is sent from the SMO to the IMS.  A response from IMS to SMO is sent containing the current status of the Update Provisioning Request status. EXCEPTION: INSUFFICIENT RESOURCES – There were insufficient resources to be able to fulfill the update of the Provisioning Request. In this case, the IMS updates the Provisioning Request object that there are insufficient suitable resources and publishes a list of successfully updated Infrastructure Resources. A list of Step 4-5 (PAR) individual provisioning status of all Infrastructure Resource requested, including failed ones, is also published with Provisioning Request Status. IMS at O-Cloud continues to attempt acquiring required resources. EXCEPTION: UPDATE FAILED – IMS encountered failures in processing of the updated Provisioning Request. In this case the IMS updates the Provisioning Request object that the Infrastructure Resources provisioning has failed and publishes a list of successfully provisioned Infrastructure Resources. A list of individual provisioning status of all Infrastructure Resource requested, including failed ones, is also published with Provisioning Request Status. IMS at O-Cloud bail- out on further processing of the provisioning request until further intervention from consumer SMO (FOCOM). (NOTE1) SUCCESSFUL PROCESSING OF UPDATE PROVISIONIG REQUEST Step 6 (ALT) If all requested Infrastructure Resources requested by the template are created successfully, the IMS updates the Provisioning Request object with the successful status and information on created Infrastructure Resources. EXCEPTION: MALFORMED REQUEST – The request had an incorrect format and was not understood by the IMS. An unsuccessful Provisioning Request response is Step 7 (ALT) returned to the requestor. The request was non-sensical or the parameters comprising the request are not valid. IMS cleans up all internal actions for this request. (NOTE 2) This use case ends when all requested Infrastructure Resources are updated, or the Ends when use case execution have encountered an exception where none, or just some of the Infrastructure Resources have been updated. UPDATE FAILED – Update of managed Infrastructure Resources as requested by the Provisioning Request could not be completed due to O-Cloud internal failures. INSUFFICIENT RESOURCES – There are insufficient resources to perform the Exceptions Update Provisioning Request operation. MALFORMED REQUEST – The request had an incorrect format and could not be processed by the IMS. The request to update the Provisioning Request Object is rejected. (NOTE 2) (NOTE 3) SUCCESS: Infrastructure Resources are successfully created, updated or removed as requested by the updated Provisioning Request with corresponding Infrastructure Resource ID has been updated. Post-conditions FAILURE/PARTIAL SUCCESS: IMS publishes a list of successfully provisioned Infrastructure Resources. A list of individual provisioning status of all Infrastructure Resource requested, including failed ones, is also published with Provisioning Request Status. (NOTE 3) Traceability REQ-ORC-O2-110, REQ-ORC-O2-111
> NOTE 1: Update of the Infrastructure Resource can also impact workloads deployed
from the NFO/DMS.
> NOTE 2: The implementation might encounter more exceptions of what is described
in this current use case. Notes
> NOTE 3: During the processing of a Provisioning Request for a set of Infrastructure
Resources, the provisioning status of each individual Infrastructure Resource is published with the Provisioning Request status in a Resource Provisioning Status list.

##### 3.11.5.3.3 UML Sequence Diagram

### 3.11.6 Networking Infrastructure Provisioning Use Cases

#### 3.11.6.1 Create Networking Infrastructure across O-Cloud Sites with a Template Use
Case

##### 3.11.6.1.1 High Level Description
This use case describes the creation of Network Infrastructure related to Node Cluster(s), by following a declarative provisioning approach. A Node Cluster may require several different types of end-to-end Networks across O-Cloud networking segments in one or more O-Cloud Sites, that interconnect Ports of the Site Networks, realized through one or more O-Cloud Site Network Fabric(s) and with O-Cloud Site Gateway(s) attached to Attachment Circuit(s), representing the O-Cloud Site connection to the Transport Network. This applies to networks with both intra and inter O-Cloud Site connectivity. (1) Intra-O-Cloud Site Intra-Cluster connectivity: This type of connectivity is encapsulated entirely within one O-Cloud Node Cluster that resides at one O-Cloud Site. This connectivity can e.g. be achieved by provisioning Site Networks connecting a set of Nodes within a Node Cluster. (2) Intra-O-Cloud Site Inter-Cluster connectivity: This type of connectivity is an inter-cluster connectivity that connects to different O-Cloud Node Clusters in the same O-Cloud Site. This connectivity can e.g. be achieved by provisioning Site Networks and/or Gateways that are shared across more than one O-Cloud Node Clusters. (3) Inter-O-Cloud Site Inter-Cluster connectivity: This type of connectivity is one that connects two or more different O-Cloud Node Clusters within an O-Cloud comprising different O-Cloud Sites. This connectivity can e.g. be achieved by separately provisioning Site Networks and/or Gateways to each O-Cloud Node Clusters residing on different O-Cloud Sites and needed Attachment Circuits for transport connectivity between sites. (4) Inter-O-Cloud Site Intra-Cluster connectivity (Distributed Cluster): This type of connectivity is one that connects a distributed O-Cloud Node Cluster, i.e., one that spans multiple O-Cloud Sites. This connectivity can e.g. be achieved by provisioning Site Networks in more than one O-Cloud Site, each connecting a set of Nodes in different O-Cloud Sites, belonging to a common Node Cluster, with requested O-Cloud Gateways and needed Attachment Circuits for transport connectivity between sites. (5) External connectivity: O-Cloud external connectivity is one where a cluster connects towards external system(s) that are outside of the O-Cloud; for example, a network that connects to a O-RU. This connectivity can e.g. be achieved using Site Networks connecting a set of Nodes within a Node Cluster and requested Gateways and needed Attachment Circuits for transport connectivity towards external systems. For an NF Deployment to be deployed on O-Cloud Node Clusters, it requires connectivity across O-Cloud networking endpoints, represented by Ports. IMS can establish Site Networks, based on provisioning requests from SMO, that an O- Cloud Node Cluster can use for its NodeClusterSiteNWs using the SiteNetworks specified IP address ranges. When the NF Deployment is instantiated on a O-Cloud Node Cluster, that O-Cloud Node Cluster can then utilize those IP addresses to make the appropriate connections. For example, in the K8s case, the Network Attachment Definitions (NAD) are used to accomplish the mapping between the Ports to the NF Deployment Pod interfaces. The purpose of the ‘Create Networking Infrastructure across O-Cloud Sites’ Use Case is to create Infrastructure Resources e.g., Site Network(s), Gateway(s) and/or Attachment Circuit(s) enabling needed connectivity for Node Cluster(s). Present use case establishes inter-O-Cloud Site and intra-O-Cloud Site connectivity as requested by one or more Provisioning Request(s) that have their respective declarative target(s) given by a Template reference and a set of parameters. Connectivity within an O-Cloud Site is achieved using Site Network(s) and O-Cloud Gateway(s), and the connectivity to transport networks through O-Cloud Gateway(s) and Attachment Circuit(s) are leveraged to achieve inter-O-Cloud Site connectivity. Once Site Network(s) are created, they establish connectivity among the site local O-Cloud Cluster Nodes and to the O-Cloud Gateway(s) through Site Network Fabric(s). The Create Networking Infrastructure across O-Cloud Sites includes the five basic connectivity scenarios described above, that can be combined for specific deployments. Following is an example of a set of possible Provisioning Requests. Above Figure 3.11.6.1-2 depicts an example provisioning of Networking Infrastructure needed for two Node Clusters, using three different Provisioning Requests. This example includes provisioning of following end-to-end networks. 1. Provisioning Request 1 using Managed Infrastructure Template NF_A_net_infra to create - a. SiteNetwork 1 connecting a set of Nodes of Node Cluster1 (Intra-O-Cloud Site Intra-Cluster connectivity) b. SiteNetwork 2, Gateway 1 and Attachment Circuit AC1, providing O-Cloud Site external connectivity to a set of NodeCluster 1 nodes (External connectivity) 2. Provisioning Request 2 using Managed Infrastructure Template Shared_ext_net_infra to create - a. Shared network SiteNetwork 3, Gateway 2 and Attachment Circuit AC2, providing a shared network with external connectivity to NodeCluster 1 and NodeCluster 2 (Intra-O-Cloud Site Inter-Cluster connectivity) 3. Provisioning Request 3 using Managed Infrastructure Template NF_B_net_infra to create - a. SiteNetwork 4, Gateway 3 and Attachment Circuit AC3 in O-Cloud Site 1 and SiteNetwork 5, Gateway 4 and Attachment Circuit AC4 in O-Cloud Site 2, providing end-to-end intra cluster connectivity to Distributed Cluster NodeCluster 2 (Inter-O-Cloud Site Intra-Cluster connectivity)

##### 3.11.6.1.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal Create networking infrastructure. O-Cloud Operator – The O-Cloud operator is a consumer (or entity) using or interfacing with the SMO (FOCOM). SMO (FOCOM) – The FOCOM within the SMO is the actor who issues the Actors and Roles Create Infrastructure request over the O2ims interface. IMS – The IMS within the O-Cloud processes the Create Infrastructure request over the O2ims interface. None. Assumptions Attachment Circuit at Edge Transport Network Equipment– The SMO has detected a need for external connection between Node Clusters or Node Cluster(s) to external system(s). The transport network has provisioned the transport side of the Attachment Circuit. Site Network Fabric – The Site Network Fabric has been provisioned enabling infrastructure-level connectivity between O-Cloud Nodes and O- Cloud Gateway(s). Connectivity – The SMO is connected to the O-Cloud. Preconditions O-Cloud Operational – The O-Cloud is installed, operating, and registered with the SMO. Privilege – The consumer identification and privileges of a SMO user have been verified to be able to perform O2 operations. Template – Appropriate O-Cloud templates are available for the provisioning of required O-Cloud Infrastructure Resources for desired connectivity. The use case begins when an operator at the SMO wishes to establish Begins when Networking Infrastructure within and across O-Cloud Sites, as needed by the Node Cluster(s). OPERATOR INITIATES REQUEST – The O-Cloud Operator initiates Networking Infrastructure Provisioning Request(s). In each request, the operator will specify one or more type of Step 1(M) end-to-end network(s) to be created. Operator may issue multiple such Provisioning Requests representing networking resources, either in context of a Node Cluster, or a set of shared resources that can be utilized by multiple Node Clusters. CREATE NETWORKING INFRASTRUCTURE REQUEST – In response to Operator’s request, FOCOM (SMO) initiates Networking Infrastructure Provisioning Request towards the O-Cloud specifying one or more end-to-end type of networks to be created. Following different types of end-to-end Networking Infrastructure connection Step 2(M) scopes can be set up by Provisioning Request(s):
- Intra-O-Cloud Site Intra-Cluster connectivity: This type of
connectivity is encapsulated entirely within one O-Cloud Node Cluster that resides at one O-Cloud Site.
- Intra-O-Cloud Site Inter-Cluster connectivity: This type of
connectivity is an inter-cluster connectivity that connects to different O- Cloud Node Clusters in the same O-Cloud Site.
- Inter-O-Cloud Site Inter-Cluster connectivity: This type of
connectivity is one that connects two or more different O-Cloud Node Clusters within an O-Cloud sitting on different sites.
- Inter-O-Cloud Site Intra-Cluster connectivity (Distributed Cluster):
This type of connectivity is one that connects a distributed cluster, i.e., an O-Cloud Node Cluster that spans multiple O-Cloud Node Sites.
- External connectivity: A transport network where a cluster connects
to an external system (outside of the O-Cloud). (NOTE 1) INTRA-O-CLOUD SITE INTRA-CLUSTER CONNECTIVITY For Intra-O-Cloud Site Intra-Cluster connectivity the IMS creates Step 3 (ALT) connectivity that resides within on O-Cloud Node Cluster within a O-Cloud Site. INTRA-O-CLOUD SITE INTER-CLUSTER CONNECTIVITY For Intra-O-Cloud Site Inter-Cluster connectivity the IMS creates the inter- Step 4 (ALT) cluster connectivity that spans multiple O-Cloud Node Clusters within a O- Cloud Site. (NOTE 1) INTER-O-CLOUD SITE INTER-CLUSTER CONNECTIVITY For Inter-O-Cloud Site Inter-Cluster connectivity, the IMS creates the inter- Step 5 (ALT) cluster connectivity across multiple O-Cloud sites. For connectivity between O-Cloud Sites, for a given bearer, the IMS needs to create the attachment circuit. (NOTE 1) INTER-O-CLOUD SITE INTRA-CLUSTER CONNECTIVITY (Distributed Cluster) Step 6 (ALT) For Inter-O-Cloud Site Intra-Cluster connectivity, the IMS creates the intra- cluster connectivity that is a distributed O-Cloud Node cluster, one that spans multiple O-Cloud sites. For connectivity between O-Cloud Sites, for a given bearer, the IMS needs to create the attachment circuit. EXTERNAL CONNECTIVITY Step 7 (ALT) For connectivity to non-O-Cloud systems through transport networks, for a given bearer the IMS needs to create the attachment circuit. ERROR CASE Step 8 (ALT) An Error has been detected. A failure condition is returned to the FOCOM (SMO) and the Use Case Ends. None Post Conditions Traceability [REQ-ORC-O2-112], [REQ-ORC-O2-113]
> NOTE 1: Inter-O-Cloud Site Inter-Cluster connectivity scenario requires individual Provisioning Requests from the
Operator for each Node Cluster.
> NOTE 2: Refer to clause 3.11.2 regarding provisioning of O-Cloud Node Clusters. The provisioning of O-Cloud
Node Clusters is performed through other provisioning requests not described in the present use case.

##### 3.11.6.1.3 UML Sequence Diagram

### 3.11.7 O-Cloud Cluster Templates Discovery Use Case

##### 3.11.7.1.1 High Level Description
This use case describes the process for discovering the O-Cloud Cluster Templates available within an O-Cloud. The goal is to retrieve all existing templates which the SMO can use to initiate a provisioning request to provision or update an O-Cloud Node Cluster. The use case also outlines the Event Notification pattern triggered by changes (Addition/Deletion) of O-Cloud Cluster Templates, assuming the SMO has subscribed to receive such events.

##### 3.11.7.1.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> USE CASE STAGE EVOLUTION / SPECIFICATION Related Use Use Case Title O-Cloud Cluster Templates Discovery Use Case The goals of this use case are to: Goal  Discover available O-Cloud Cluster Templates in an O-Cloud. Service Management Orchestrator (SMO) – The FOCOM in the SMO is the consumer that will request the discovery of O-Cloud Cluster Templates. Actors and Roles Infrastructure Management Services (IMS) – The IMS processes the request for the discovery of O-Cloud Cluster Templates. The O-Cloud IMS functionality acts as a manager for any requesting authorized client. The following assumption is relevant to this use case:  O-Cloud Cluster Template(s) exists – O-Cloud Cluster Template(s) are Assumptions available in the O-Cloud.  Notification Event Subscription – The SMO is subscribed to event notifications from the IMS. This apply only to the Event Notification pattern. The following preconditions are used by this use case: 1. IMS Operational – The IMS in the O-Cloud is active and operational, and Preconditions the O-Cloud is configured, active and in a running state. 2. Connectivity & Authorized – The O-Cloud has connectivity and authorization allowing communication with the SMO. This use case begins when there is a request from the FOCOM to discover Begins when available O-Cloud Cluster Templates. QUERY O-CLOUD CLUSTER TEMPLATES Step 1 (M) A request to query available O-Cloud Cluster Templates is sent from FOCOM to IMS to retrieve the (potentially filtered) list by e.g. template name and/or version of available O-Cloud Cluster Templates RESPONSE TO QUERY O-CLOUD CLUSTER TEMPLATES Step 2 (M) After the above happens, the IMS then responds to the get O-Cloud Cluster Templates with the list of O-Cloud Cluster Templates including metadata for identifying each template and its associated parameters schema. The SMO can optionally store the discovered list of O-Cloud Cluster Templates QUERY O-CLOUD CLUSTER TEMPLATE Step 3 (Opt) A request to query details of O-Cloud Cluster Template is sent from FOCOM to IMS to retrieve the attributes (e.g. parameter schema and characteristics) of an O-Cloud Cluster Template available in the O-Cloud if not earlier retrieved. RESPONSE TO QUERY O-CLOUD CLUSTER TEMPLATE Step 4 (Opt) IMS responds with the attributes (e.g. parameter schema and characteristics) associated to the requested O-Cloud Cluster Template. The SMO can optionally store corresponding attributes associated with the O-Cloud Cluster Template. In this use case using the Event Notification pattern, IMS notify SMO of changes in Step 5 (M) the IMS for addition and deletion of O-Cloud Cluster Templates. The notification message includes the information to identify the template(s). This use case ends when a response or notification is received by the FOCOM with Ends when the available O-Cloud Cluster Templates. Exceptions None identified. Post-conditions The SMO has discovered the available O-Cloud Cluster Templates. Traceability [REQ-ORC-O2-114], [REQ-ORC-O2-115], [REQ-ORC-O2-116]

##### 3.11.7.1.3 UML Sequence Diagram

## 3.12 Resource Optimization Use Cases

### 3.12.1 Introduction
O-Cloud resource optimization is the process of utilizing the O-Cloud resources in an efficient manner and eliminating waste of O-Cloud resources by selecting, provisioning, and rightsizing the resources within the O-Cloud. The Network Functions (NFs) within O-Cloud are orchestrated as VNFs/CNFs. The SMO (NFO, FOCOM) handle the management and orchestration of VNFs/CNFs and underlying O-Cloud infrastructure. The SMO's management, orchestration, and optimization functionalities can be enhanced by intelligent observability analysis from VNFs/CNFs and O-Cloud. The Non-RT RIC hosts third-party applications such as rApp in the SMO, which can collect and read various O1 and O2- related observability data and metrics through O1 & O2 related services. These third-party rApps can be leveraged to provide guidance/recommendations to the NFO and FOCOM for management, orchestration, and optimization of VNFs/CNFs and underlying O-Cloud infrastructure.

### 3.12.2 O-Cloud Drain Node Use Case

#### 3.12.2.1 High Level Description
This use case describes the procedure for the SMO and O-Cloud to drain one or more O-Cloud Node(s) based on recommendations from rApp or manually by O-Cloud Maintainer via SMO. The draining of O-Cloud Node(s) will mark the specific O-Cloud Node(s) as cordoned or un-schedulable and can necessitate means to relocate, migrate or terminate Network Functions or its components to another O-Cloud Node. There are various possible scenarios where there's a need to drain an O-Cloud Node(s). One such example scenario could be where rApp, with the help of AI/ML, can provide insights to FOCOM/NFO for O-Cloud Node failure. rApp predicting the O-Cloud Node failure can recommend FOCOM/NFO to drain that particular O-Cloud Node and proactively migrate the workloads from the O-Cloud Node. Subsequently, this NF migration, as a result of the node draining recommendation, ensures service continuity by minimizing disruption and assuring the quality of service for the network slices and services. In this use case, the SMO manages NF(s) relocation. The request for draining an O-Cloud Node(s) can be manual, or rApps can send a recommendation to FOCOM/NFO. This use-case (along with other Resource Optimization use-cases) envisions a data-driven approach for optimizing O-Cloud resources. The rApps in non-RT RIC utilizing AI/ML framework can provide guidance to FOCOM/NFO complementing FOCOM/NFO scheduling capabilities and empowering the system to make more data driven placement decisions.
> NOTE 1 : The current version of the specification does not specify whether it’s the IMS or DMS that receives the
request to drain the O-Cloud node(s).
> NOTE 2 : The O-Cloud Node(s) is set to maintenance mode (see clause 3.10.2 in O2 GA&P [9]) by default, when this
use case is called.

#### 3.12.2.2 Sequence Description
Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification To drain O-Cloud Node(s) by labelling the node(s) as cordoned or un-schedulable, and it may Goal safely evict/migrate all the Network Function(s) and/ or its components from the O-Cloud Node(s). O-Cloud Maintainer SMO: FOCOM /NFO IMS: Infrastructure Management Services Actors and Roles DMS - Deployment Management Services rApp (via Non-RT RIC) NF - Network Function (Application) 1. The “Service Request” to the SMO includes the identifiers of the O-Cloud Node(s) to be drained. 2. A trigger for draining a O-Cloud Node is received from FOCOM/NFO based on a Assumptions request from O-Cloud Maintainer, or recommendation from rApp. 3. Data traffic from the node(s) that needs to be drained has been moved before triggering the O-Cloud Node(s) draining procedure. 1. SMO is available 2. O-Cloud is available Pre- conditions 3. O1 & O2 events have been subscribed by the monitoring system supervised by the O- Cloud Maintainer and /or rApp. Existing O-Cloud Node(s) is/are determined to be drained based on a request from O-Cloud Begins when Maintainer or recommendation from rApp. O-Cloud Maintainer provides a request or rApp provides recommendation to FOCOM/NFO to Step 1 (M) drain the specific set of O-Cloud Node(s). Once the recommendation from rApp or the request from the O-Cloud Maintainer to Step 2 (M) FOCOM/NFO gets accepted, FOCOM/NFO requests the IMS/DMS over the O2 interface to drain one or more O-Cloud Node(s). Step 3 (M) IMS/DMS will mark the O-Cloud Node(s) as cordoned or un-schedulable. IMS/DMS will drain the O-Cloud Node(s), which can trigger migrating NF Deployment(s) from each individual O-Cloud Node. Step 4 (M)
> NOTE 1: Steps 2-4 can be looped for each O-Cloud Node.
> NOTE 2: Once the O-Cloud Node(s) is drained, all the NF Deployments(s) are either migrated or
terminated from the O-Cloud Node(s).. SUCCESS:

## 5.1 IMS/DMS notifies FOCOM/NFO that the O-Cloud Node(s) drain action is completed.
Step 5 (ALT)

## 5.2 FOCOM/NFO notifies the rApp or O-Cloud Maintainer that the O-Cloud Node(s) drain is completed.
EXCEPTION: The O-Cloud Node draining procedure encountered an exception. There can be various reasons for the exception, like the Node Cluster not found, the Node Cluster not responding or unavailable, or the Node Cluster having insufficient resources to migrate NF Deployment(s). Step 6 (ALT) 6.1. IMS/DMS notifies FOCOM/NFO that the O-Cloud Node(s) drain action was unsuccessful. 6.2. FOCOM/NFO notifies the rApp or O-Cloud Maintainer that the O-Cloud Node(s) drain action was unsuccessful. This use case ends when the O-Cloud Node(s) have been drained, i.e., when the O-Cloud Ends when Node(s) have been marked as cordoned or un-schedulable, and the NF deployment(s) have been moved to other O-Cloud Node instances, or the use case has encountered an exception. The Node Cluster Not Found – The requested Node Cluster was not found or does not exist in the O-Cloud. The Node Cluster is unavailable – The requested Node Cluster is unavailable, busy, not Exceptions responding, or malfunctioning. Insufficient Resources – There are insufficient resources to migrate the NFs Deployment(s) within the O-Cloud Node Cluster. SUCCESS: The requested O-Cloud Node(s) in the Node Cluster has been marked cordoned or un-schedulable, and all the NF Deployment(s) are migrated to other O-Cloud Node(s) within the Node Cluster. Post-conditions FAILURE: The O-Cloud and IMS/DMS state is in the same state as before the request arrived: no resources are amended, and no NF Deployment(s) are migrated or terminated. Traceability [REQ-ORC-GEN29], [REQ-ORC-O2-94], [REQ-ORC-O2-95]

#### 3.12.2.3 UML Sequence Diagram

### 3.12.3 O-Cloud Cordon and Uncordon Use Case

#### 3.12.3.1 High Level Description
This use case describes how to Cordon and then Uncordon an O-Cloud Node(s) (after the successful cordoning of the node) in a O-Cloud Node Cluster. Cordoning(s) a node is performed in order to mark the O-Cloud Node(s) un-schedulable. Marking the O-Cloud Node(s) as un-schedulable prevents the scheduler from placing new NF deployments on the specified O-Cloud Node(s) but does not affect existing NF deployments on the O-Cloud Node(s). This is useful as a preparatory step before draining an O-Cloud Node(s). The action to Cordon or Uncordon an O-Cloud Node(s) can be a recommendation by an rApp or a manual request submitted by Cloud Maintainer via SMO In the context of O-Cloud Resource Optimisation, rApps utilizing O2 telemetry data can recommend the cordoning and uncordoning of O-Cloud Nodes, to achieve optimized resource allocation, as explained below. To enable this functionality, O-Cloud exposes the following telemetry data to FOCOM and rApp, including but not limited to:

# 3 O-Cloud Node(s) Disk utilisation
rApps can correlate the above information with other data e.g., O1 telemetry data related to Network Traffic. rApps can predict periods of high resource utilization (e.g., within the next 4 hours) and recommend Cordoning of O- Cloud Node(s) to FOCOM. This ensures that critical performance-sensitive workloads are not placed on specific O- Cloud Nodes during peak times. rApps continuously evaluate the conditions (based on O2 and/or O1 telemetry data and their correlation) Once the predicted high traffic period has passed and the resource utilization on the O-Cloud Node has returned to normal levels, the rApp can recommend Uncordoning the O-Cloud Node to allow new NF deployments to be scheduled on the node again. Alternatively, if periods of high resource utilization are predicted, then one possible action could be to recommend to uncordon some previously cordoned nodes (i.e., those that are done with the maintenance activities) so that they are available for this period. And when decreased resource utilization is predicted, the recommendation could be to cordon specific O-Cloud nodes that are not required for handling the NF Deployment.
> NOTE 1: rApps take into consideration the potential impact of Cordoning & Uncordoning of the O-Cloud Node(s) on
future system performance. Therefore, the rApps will only recommend Cordoning of the O-Cloud Node(s) if it predicts a prolonged period of high or low O-Cloud resource usage, and Uncordoning if the resource utilization returns to normal levels, to avoid unnecessary and frequent Cordoning and Uncordoning of the O-Cloud Node(s).
> NOTE 2: This version of the use case does not describe the role and involvement of FOCOM vs. NFO and how IMS
interacts with the DMS. Editor’s Note: Architecture issues associated with the use case such as the involvement of FOCOM vs. NFO and on how IMS interacts with the DMS are still under discussion and should be reviewed for any impact on the sequence description and UML flow diagrams.

#### 3.12.3.2 Sequence Description
Use Case Evolution / Specification Stage Cordon the O-Cloud Node to mark it as un-schedulable and subsequently Uncordon the O- Goal Cloud Node to make it available for NF deployments Actors and Cloud Maintainer Roles SMO: FOCOM IMS: Infrastructure Management Services rApp (via Non-RT RIC) NF: Network Function (Application) 1) The Service Request to the SMO includes the identifiers of the O-Cloud Node(s) to be Cordon and Uncordon. Assumptions 2) A trigger to Cordon and/or Uncordon O-Cloud Node(s) is received from FOCOM based on a request from Cloud Maintainer, or recommendation from rApp. 1) SMO is available. 2) O-Cloud is available. Pre-conditions 3) Network connectivity exists between the O-Cloud and SMO 4) O1 & O2 events have been subscribed by the monitoring system supervised by O- Cloud Maintainer and/or rApp. Existing O-Cloud Node(s) is/are determined to be Cordon based on a request from O-Cloud Begins when Maintainer or recommendation from rApp. Cloud Maintainer provides a request or rApps provides recommendation to FOCOM to Cordon Step 1 (M) the specific set of O-Cloud Node(s). Once the recommendation from rApp or the request from the O-Cloud Maintainer to FOCOM gets accepted, FOCOM requests the IMS over the O2 interface to Cordon one or more O- Cloud Node(s). Step 2 (M)
> NOTE 1: FOCOM verifies that the request or recommendation is valid before sending it to IMS
> NOTE 2: FOCOM may reject the Cloud Maintainer’s request or rApp’s recommendation of
cordon/uncordon for some reasons such as too-frequent requests. (e.g. 429 too many request) IMS will mark the O-Cloud Node(s), as cordoned or un-schedulable for new NF Deployments. Step 3 (M)
> NOTE 3: Steps 2-3 can be looped for each O-Cloud Node.
SUCCESS:

## 4.1 IMS notifies FOCOM that the O-Cloud Node(s) Cordon operation is complete.
Step 4 (ALT) 4.2, 4.3 FOCOM notifies the rApp or Cloud Maintainer that the O-Cloud Node(s) Cordon is completed. EXCEPTION: The O-Cloud Node Cordon procedure encountered an exception. There can be various reasons for the exception, like Node is already cordoned, there is a network or communication issue. Step 5 (ALT)

## 5.1 IMS notifies FOCOM that the O-Cloud Node(s) Cordon action was unsuccessful (e.g.,
"Node is already cordoned" or "communication timeout") 5.2, 5.3 FOCOM notifies the rApp or Cloud Maintainer that the O-Cloud Node(s) Cordon action was unsuccessful. Cloud Maintainer provides a request or rApps provides recommendation to FOCOM to Step 6 (O) Uncordon the specific set of O-Cloud Node(s). Once the recommendation from rApp or the request from the O-Cloud Maintainer to FOCOM Step 7 (O) gets accepted, FOCOM requests the IMS over O2 interface to Uncordon one or more O-Cloud Node(s). IMS will mark the O-Cloud Node(s), as uncordoned or schedulable for new NF Deployments. Step 8 (O)
> NOTE 4: Steps 7-8 can be looped for each O-Cloud Node.
SUCCESS:

## 9.1 IMS notifies FOCOM that the O-Cloud Node(s) Uncordon operation is complete.
Step 9 (O) 9.2, 9.3 FOCOM notifies the rApp or Cloud Maintainer that the O-Cloud Node(s) Uncordon is completed. EXCEPTION: The O-Cloud Node Uncordon procedure encountered an exception. There can be various reasons for the exception, like Node is already uncordoned, there is a network or communication issue. Step 10 (ALT)

## 10.1 IMS notifies FOCOM that the O-Cloud Node(s) Uncordon action was unsuccessful. (e.g.,
"Node is already uncordoned" or "communication timeout"). 10.2, 10.3 FOCOM notifies the rApp or Cloud Maintainer that the O-Cloud Node(s) Uncordon action was unsuccessful. O-Cloud Node(s) have been Cordon and IMS marks the Node(s) in the existing Node pool as un-schedulable or the use case has encountered an exception Ends when OR O-Cloud node(s) have been Uncordon and IMS marks the Node(s) in the existing Node pool as schedulable or the use case has encountered an exception 1. Cordon operation is not successful on the O-Cloud Node(s). Exceptions 2. Uncordon operation is not successful on the O-Cloud Node(s). SUCCESS: The requested O-Cloud Node(s) in the Node Cluster has been marked cordoned or un-schedulable. If required, O-Cloud Node(s) draining operation can be initiated on the O- Cloud Node(s) Post-conditions OR Subsequently, the requested O-Cloud Node(s) in the Node Cluster has been Uncordoned or schedulable. FAILURE: The O-Cloud and IMS stay is in the same state as before the request arrived [REQ-ORC-GEN31]. [REQ-ORC-GEN32] [REQ-ORC-O2-101], [REQ-ORC-O2-102], [REQ- Traceability ORC-O2-103], [REQ-ORC-O2-104]

#### 3.12.3.3 UML Sequence Diagram

## 3.13 Heartbeat Monitoring Use Cases

### 3.13.1 Heartbeat Subscription Use Case

#### 3.13.1.1 High Level Description
This Use Case supports subscription to an IMS heartbeat. SMO or other entities will be able to subscribe to receiving heartbeat messages from the IMS to detect reachability failures to the IMS. The subscription will include, the subscriber callback endpoint, heartbeat messages period and missed heartbeat message threshold(s) to trigger failure.
> NOTE: Heartbeat messages will be defined in the Heartbeat UC.

#### 3.13.1.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses> > USE CASE EVOLUTION / SPECIFICATION STAGE Related Use Use Case Title Heartbeat Subscription (IMS) This use case describes a flow where one or more consumers subscribe to receiving heartbeat messages from the IMS in order to detect communication failures. Each SUBSCRIBER has a consumer subscription identifier. There is one Goal consumer subscription identifier per subscription. It doesn’t have to be unique for that subscription. The consumer subscription identifier is a character string that can be associated with meta-data within the SMO. SMO (FOCOM) – The FOCOM within the SMO or other entities. Actors and Roles IMS – The IMS within the O-Cloud. There can be multiple subscribers to exchange heartbeat messages with the IMS. Each subscription is associated with one subscriber. Thus, each subscription will only go to one endpoint. Thus, there cannot be multiple endpoints for single Assumptions subscription. The subscriber may not be the ultimate consumer of the HB. The subscriber is not necessarily the same entity as the endpoint for notifications. CONNECTIVITY – The Subscriber has connectivity to the IMS by some mechanism. Preconditions O-Cloud OPERATIONAL – O-Cloud is installed, operating, and the IMS in the O- Cloud has registered with SMO. The use case is triggered when a subscriber wishes to: (1) NOTIFICATION – A subscriber wishes to subscribe to receiving heartbeat messages from the IMS. Begins when (2) HEARTBEAT SUBSCRIPTION CHANGE – To change the characteristics of a heartbeat subscription a user would need to create a new heartbeat subscription followed by a deleting the previous heartbeat subscription. This is done because there is no heartbeat subscription update procedure. (3) OPERATOR INITIATED - An O-Cloud operator may also initiate a subscription. NOTIFICATION CRITERIA – This gives a notification criterion which initiates the subscription. Step 1 (M) The subscription criteria will indicate the endpoint for the IMS to send heartbeat, period and missed heartbeat pulse threshold(s) to trigger failure. SUBSCRIPTION – The subscriber sends a heartbeat subscription to the IMS. Step 2 (M) The subscription includes the Consumer Subscription Identifier. CALLBACK REACHABILITY CHECK – A Reachability Check is performed Step 3 (M) between the subscriber and IMS. This is a connectivity and authorization check. REACHABILITY SUCCESS – This step indicates that the reachability check has Step 4 (ALT) passed successfully. REACHABILITY FAILURE – This step indicates that the reachability check has Step 5 (ALT) failed. SUBSCRIPTION DENIED (FAILURE) – The IMS has failed the reachability Step 6 (ALT) check. IMS will proceed to deny the heartbeat subscription. SUBSCRIPTION STATUS (FAILURE) – If the reachability check has failed, the Step 7 (ALT) subscription status will indicate a failure. The use case will end at this point. This is a return to Step 2. SUBSCRIPTION ACKNOWLEDGE – The IMS indicates a subscription acknowledge. This essentially indicates a success for the heartbeat subscription. Step 8 (M) (Optional) The consumer subscription identifier may be passed back in the subscription acknowledge. SUBSCRIPTION STATUS (SUCCESS) – A subscription status will indicate a Step 9 (M) success back to O-Cloud Operator. This is a return to Step 1. This use case ends when a heartbeat subscription status has been sent Ends when successfully or on one of the failure cases, when there was a subscription failure. FAILURE CASE 1: FAILURE INDICATION - The Subscription acknowledge indicates a failure. FAILURE CASE 2: CONNECTIVITY ISSUE - Can’t reach the publisher, the reachability check has failed. Exceptions ALTERNATE CASE 1: VALIDITY CHECK – A validity check confirms the reachability of the callback endpoint, checking that the IMS has permission to reach the consumer through a TLS connection. If a validity check is performed AND it fails, this would lead to Fail Case 2 (Connectivity Issue). SUCCESS: The IMS has the subscriber call-back (a fully qualified URL), and it is persisted. The IMS has created its own internal association for heartbeat subscription which includes the consumer subscription identifier, the call-back Post-conditions URL and along with heartbeat message period and thresholds. FAILURE: The heartbeat subscription operation has failed. See the exception cases. Traceability [REQ-ORC-O2-15], [REQ-ORC-O2-105], [REQ-ORC-O2-106]

#### 3.13.1.3 UML Sequence Diagram

# 4 Orchestration Requirements
The following section contains requirements on the O-Cloud, SMO, O1 and O2 based on the Orchestration Use Cases above.

## 4.1 General Requirements
The O-RAN SMO shall support the creation of a globally unique Use Case 3.1.1 [REQ-ORC-GEN1] identifier (Global O-Cloud ID) which can uniquely identify an O- Cloud instance in a provider's network. The O-RAN SMO shall be able to create an inventory placeholder Use Case 3.1.1 [REQ-ORC-GEN2] based on a Global O-Cloud ID for an O-Cloud expected to be managed by the SMO. The O-RAN SMO shall be able to initiate an O-Cloud build out by Use Case 3.1.2 [REQ-ORC-GEN3] loading the first O-Cloud server and providing a “blueprint” of the functionality and resources needed. The O-RAN O-Cloud Infrastructure Management Services shall be Use Case 3.1.2 [REQ-ORC-GEN4] able to orchestrate the control plane and resource nodes from O-Cloud Nodes as they are detected. The O-RAN O-Cloud Infrastructure Management Services shall be Use Case 3.1.2 [REQ-ORC-GEN5] able to notify the SMO when it has completed the O-Cloud build and is ready to be integrated to the SMO. The O-RAN O-Cloud Infrastructure Management Services shall be Use Case 3.1.3 [REQ-ORC-GEN6] able to provide SMO with information about its current SW inventory and platform software The O-RAN SMO shall be able to verify an O-Cloud instance is at the Use Case 3.1.3 [REQ-ORC-GEN7] SW inventory or build expected for platform software for given deployment The SMO shall be able to configure an O-Cloud to notify the SMO of Use Case 3.1.3 [REQ-ORC-GEN8] O-Cloud Configuration Changes, Faults detected within, and performance of O-Cloud Nodes. The O-RAN O-Cloud Infrastructure Management Services shall be Use Case 3.1.3 able to provide on demand a list of its DMS with the resource locations [REQ-ORC-GEN9] that each can support and information linking the DMS with the deployment descriptor model types that each support. The O-RAN O-Cloud Infrastructure Management Services shall be Use Case 3.1.4 [REQ-ORC-GEN10] able to provide on demand a list of resource build configurations (aka "flavors") that it can currently support. The O-RAN O-Cloud Infrastructure Management Services shall be Use Case 3.1.4 [REQ-ORC-GEN11] able to provide on demand a report of capacity that it could support based on the "flavors" it has defined. The O-RAN O-Cloud Infrastructure Management Services shall be Use Case 3.1.4 [REQ-ORC-GEN12] able to provide on demand a report of availability that it can still support and utilization, based on the "flavors" it has defined. The O-RAN O-Cloud Infrastructure Management Services shall be Use Case 3.1.4 [REQ-ORC-GEN13] able to notify the SMO when there is a change in Inventory status. The O-RAN O-Cloud Infrastructure Management Services shall be Use Case 3.1.5 able to detect, configure and incorporate new O-Cloud Nodes into the [REQ-ORC-GEN14] O-Cloud instance according to the rules identified in the O-Cloud blueprint. The O-RAN O-Cloud Infrastructure Management Services shall be Use Case 3.1.5 [REQ-ORC-GEN15] able to notify the SMO when resources which can affect the total capacity of the O-Cloud are changed. The O-RAN O-Cloud Infrastructure Management Services shall be Use Case 3.1.6 able to support secure get of software packages of specific version [REQ-ORC-GEN16] from a server within the SMO for the purpose of upgrading and downgrading the O-Cloud software build. The O-RAN O-Cloud Infrastructure Management Services shall be Use Case 3.1.6 able to evaluate a downloaded software package and verify that it can [REQ-ORC-GEN17] be activated without impacting applications or networks executing on the affected O-Cloud resources. The O-RAN SMO shall be able to separate requests for managing an Use Case 3.2.1 [REQ-ORC-GEN18] O-Cloud and managing O-RAN Network Functions on the O-Cloud. The O-RAN SMO shall determine which locations within the O-Cloud Use Case 3.2.1, 3.3.2 [REQ-ORC-GEN19] that should be used for implementing an end-to-end service or an xAPP if these are not specified in the service request The O-Cloud Deployment Management Services shall be able to use a Use Case 3.2.1 [REQ-ORC-GEN20] descriptor to orchestrate the creation and management of NF deployments. The O-RAN SMO shall be able to restore a NF to a previous Use Case 3.4, see also [REQ-ORC-GEN21] configuration as needed for network recovery. [8] The O-Cloud Deployment Management Service shall be able to Use Case 3.2.2 [REQ-ORC-GEN22] allocate new resources to an NF Deployment on request from the SMO in order to support scale out of an NF Deployment. The O-Cloud Deployment Management Service shall be able to Use Case 3.2.3 [REQ-ORC-GEN23] deallocate resources from an NF Deployment on request from the SMO in order to support scale in of an NF Deployment. The O-Cloud shall be able to allocate and deallocate VLAN IDs upon Use Case 3.9.1, 3.9.2 [REQ-ORC-GEN24] request from SMO (FOCOM). Use Case 3.10.1, The O-Cloud shall support network connectivity to attach NFs to the [REQ-ORC-GEN25] required endpoints within one location/site. 3.10.2 Use Case 3.10.1, The O-Cloud shall be able to connect the NF’s endpoint to the endpoint [REQ-ORC-GEN26] at O-Cloud Gateway so that it can be connected to the external entity. 3.10.2 The O-Cloud shall support a reservation mechanism for Network Use Case 3.10.1, Segment(s) (e.g., VLAN ID) based upon the request triggered via 3.10.2 FOCOM over the O2ims interface. [REQ-ORC-GEN27]
> NOTE: The reservation process includes that the reserved ID(s) is
returned to the FOCOM The O-Cloud shall support mapping the ports connecting the O-Cloud Use Case 3.10.1, Site Network Fabric and ports connecting to the transport (e.g., [REQ-ORC-GEN28] 3.10.2 Transport Network Element) on the O-Cloud Gateway (e.g., VRF) when deployed. The SMO (FOCOM/NFO) shall support the capability to receive [REQ-ORC-GEN29] Use Case 3.12.1 recommendations to drain O-Cloud node(s). Use Case 3.7.8, 3.7.10 All detected faults shall be logged in a Fault Log(s) by the O-Cloud [REQ-ORC-GEN30] Resource detecting the fault. (Log Query, Logging Configuration Use Case)
> NOTE: Fault logs can be kept remotely or locally by the O-Cloud
Resource. [REQ-ORC-GEN31] The SMO (FOCOM) shall support the capability to receive Use Case 3.12.3 (O-Cloud recommendations to Cordon O-Cloud Node(s). Cordon and Uncordon) [REQ-ORC-GEN32] The SMO (FOCOM) shall support the capability to receive Use Case 3.12.3 (O-Cloud recommendations to Uncordon O-Cloud Node(s). Cordon and Uncordon) The SMO (NFO) shall support the capability to send NF Use Case 3.2.4 [REQ-ORC-GEN33] Deployment Software Modification request to the O-Cloud (DMS) over O2 interface. The O-Cloud Deployment Management Service shall be able to Use Case 3.2.4 allocate new resources to an NF Deployment on request from the [REQ-ORC-GEN34] SMO in order to support software modification of an NF Deployment. The O-Cloud Deployment Management Service shall be able to Use Case 3.2.4 deallocate resources from an NF Deployment on request from the [REQ-ORC-GEN35] SMO in order to support software modification of an NF Deployment. All logged events in O-Cloud logs (e.g. Alarm, Fault, Debug) shall Use Case 3.7.8 (Log [REQ-ORC-GEN36] be Date and Time stamped Query) [REQ-ORC-GEN37] The consumer (e.g., SMO) shall have the appropriate All Use Cases identification, privileges, and authorization to invoke an O2 operation (e.g., Scale Out, Log Query, Performance Management Configuration).

## 4.2 Orchestration Requirements Relating to O1
Defines requirements for O-RAN managed function IM elements and FM/PM elements needed for orchestration using the O1 interface. The O-RAN SMO shall be able to subscribe to notification of configuration Use Case [REQ-ORC-O1-1] events, fault events and performance measurements from an O-RAN NF 3.2.1 instantiated on an O-Cloud, using the O1 interface. An O-RAN NF instantiated on an O-Cloud shall be able to send notification Use Case [REQ-ORC-O1-2] of configuration changes to the O-RAN SMO using the O1 interface. 3.3.2, 3.4
> NOTE: These requirements may overlap with those in [5] and may be moved to [5] in future.

## 4.3 Orchestration Requirements Relating to O2
[REQ- Use Case 3.1.2 The O-RAN SMO shall be able to provide a boot image for a remote node using ORC- the O2 interface. O2-1] [REQ- Use Case 3.1.2 The O-RAN SMO shall be able to send a cloud descriptor, (i.e., cloud deployment ORC- and configuration files) for initial cloud startup using the O2 interface. O2-2] [REQ- Use Case 3.1.3, 3.1.11 The O-RAN SMO shall be able to send a Query Information request to query the ORC- O-Cloud for objects and attributes such as SW inventory using the O2 interface. O2-3] [REQ- The O-Cloud shall be able to receive a request to download software sent to it Use Case 3.1.3, 3.3.2 ORC- from the SMO using the O2 interface, such as request for download of an xAPP O2-4] deployment. [REQ- The O-RAN SMO shall be able to subscribe to notification of configuration Use Case 3.1.3 ORC- events, fault events and performance measurements from the O-Cloud using the O2-5] O2 interface. [REQ- Use Case 3.1.3 The O-RAN SMO shall be able to query the O-Cloud for the DMS end points it ORC- supports using the O2 interface. O2-6] [REQ- Use Case 3.1.4 The O-RAN SMO shall be able to query the O-Cloud for attributes such as ORC- capabilities and capacities using the O2 interface. O2-7] [REQ- The O-Cloud shall be able to send asynchronous events to the SMO when Use Case 3.1.4, 3.1.5 ORC- available capabilities or capacities are changed, including when new hardware is O2-8] added, using the O2 interface. [REQ- Use Case 3.1.6 The O-Cloud shall be able to asynchronously notify the SMO when a software ORC- update (upgrade or downgrade) completes, using the O2 interface. O2-9] [REQ- Use Case 3.2.1 The O-RAN SMO shall be able to request the O-Cloud to instantiate a NF ORC- Deployment using cloud resources through the O2 interface. O2-10] [REQ- Use Case 3.2.5 The O-RAN SMO shall be able to request the O-Cloud to terminate NF ORC- Deployment using O2 interface. O2-11] The O-RAN SMO shall be able to request the O-Cloud to heal NF Deployment(s) Use Case 3.6.2 through the O2 interface. [REQ- NOTE: The NF Deployment could be restarted (stop and start) or its associated ORC- resources be reallocated/replaced on the same or different O-Cloud Nodes. O2-12] Alternatively, to perform service recovery, new NF Deployment instances can be created on O-Cloud Nodes with resources of equivalent characteristics and profile as defined in that NF deployment descriptors and cloud native descriptors. The O-RAN SMO shall be able to request the O-Cloud to heal O-Cloud Node(s) Use Case 3.6.3 through the O2 interface. [REQ- NOTE: The O-Cloud Node could be restarted (stop and start), or be ORC- reallocated/replaced by other O-Cloud infrastructure resources. NF deployment O2-13] requirements from the NF deployment descriptor and cloud native descriptors, that are available to O-Cloud DMS, shall be taken into consideration as part of the O-Cloud Node healing. [REQ- Use Case 3.7.1 The O-RAN SMO shall be able to issue a subscription to the O-Cloud to receive ORC- O2-14] alarm event notifications using the O2 interface. (IMS O2 Alarm Subscription) Use Case 3.7.1, 3.7.4, 3.7.5, 3.8.2, 3.13.1 [REQ- Each subscriber should have a consumer subscription identifier. (IMS O2 Alarm Subscription, ORC- NOTE: The consumer subscription identifier is an identifier provided by the Alarm Subscription Query, Alarm O2-15] consumer that is reflected in the alarm and performance notifications. Subscription Delete, Performance Subscription, Heartbeat Subscription) The IMS in the O-Cloud (alarm producer) shall be able to asynchronously notify Use Case 3.7.2 [REQ- the endpoint specified by the SMO (alarm consumer) of alarm notifications related ORC- to O-Cloud resources using the O2 interface. (IMS O2 Alarm Notification) O2-16] [REQ- The SMO shall be able to query the O-Cloud for alarms on O-Cloud resources Use Case 3.7.3 ORC- with query criteria which define the alarm characteristics that the SMO is O2-17] interested in using the O2 interface. (IMS O2 Alarm Query) [REQ- Use Case 3.7.3 The IMS O-Cloud shall return alarms in response to the SMO alarm query that ORC-02- match the alarm query criteria using the O2 interface. 18] (IMS O2 Alarm Query) The SMO shall be able to query the O-Cloud for state and status information Use Case 3.1.7 [REQ- using the O2 Interface. This is called a functional status query. Furthermore, the ORC- SMO uses query criteria in the query to indicate specific kinds of state and status (Functional Status Query) O2-19] information it is interested in. [REQ- The IMS shall respond to a functional status query using the O2 Interface. The Use Case 3.1.7 ORC- IMS does so by returning state and status information for the O-Cloud based on O2-20] the query criteria. (Functional Status Query) [REQ- Use Case 3.7.4 The SMO shall be able to perform an Alarm Subscription query towards the IMS ORC- using the O2 Interface. O2-21] (Alarm Subscription Query) [REQ- Use Case 3.7.4 The IMS shall be able to process and respond to an Alarm Subscription query ORC- from the SMO using the O2 Interface. O2-22] (Alarm Subscription Query) [REQ- Use Case 3.7.5 The SMO shall be able to request for an Alarm Subscription delete towards the ORC- IMS using the O2 Interface. O2-23] (Alarm Subscription Delete) [REQ- Use Case 3.7.5 The IMS shall be able to process and respond to an Alarm Subscription delete ORC- requests from the SMO using the O2 Interface. O2-24] (Alarm Subscription Delete) [REQ- Use Case 3.7.6 The O-Cloud operator, SMO, or IMS shall be able to initiate an alarm ORC- synchronization operation using the O2 Interface. O2-25] (Alarm Synchronization) [REQ- Use Case 3.7.6 The SMO shall correlate and resolve discrepancies by all alarms of interest from ORC- O-Cloud during alarm synchronization operation using the O2 Interface. O2-26] (Alarm Synchronization) [REQ- Use Case 3.7.7 The O-Cloud operator or SMO shall be able to initiate an alarm acknowledge ORC- operation using the O2 Interface. O2-27] (Alarm Acknowledge/ Clear) [REQ- Use Case 3.7.7 The O-Cloud operator or SMO shall be able to initiate an alarm clear operation ORC- using the O2 Interface. O2-28] (Alarm Acknowledge/ Clear) [REQ- Use Case 3.7.7 The IMS shall be able to process and respond to an alarm acknowledge request ORC- from the SMO using the O2 Interface. O2-29] (Alarm Acknowledge/ Clear) [REQ- Use Case 3.7.7 The IMS shall be able to process and respond to an alarm clear request from the ORC- SMO using the O2 Interface. O2-30] (Alarm Acknowledge/ Clear) [REQ- Use Case 3.8.1 The SMO shall be able to request to the IMS for PM Job(s) to be created using the ORC- O2-31] O2 interface. (IMS PM Job Creation) [REQ- Use Case 3.8.1 ORC- The IMS shall be able to create PM Job(s) requested by the SMO. O2-32] (IMS PM Job Creation) [REQ- Use Case 3.7.8 The consumer (SMO) shall be able to query the O-Cloud for any Log using the ORC- O2-33] O2 Interface. (Log Query Use Case)
> NOTE: The typical logs can be Alarm, Debug and Fault Logs.
The SMO shall be able to specify a Log Query filter in the Log Query request to provide details of what it is interested in. [REQ- Use Case 3.7.8 The consumer (SMO) shall be able to receive and process Log Files if the IMS ORC- O2-34] returns files. (Log Query Use Case) [REQ- Use Case 3.7.8 The consumer (SMO) shall be able to accept an endpoint from the producer (IMS). ORC- O2-35] The SMO shall be able to try to access the endpoint to retrieve those files. (Log Query Use Case) [REQ- The producer (IMS) shall respond to a Log Query using the O2 Interface. Use Case 3.7.8 ORC- The IMS shall return either Log File(s) matching the Log Query request or an (Log Query Use Case) O2-36] endpoint that a consumer can retrieve the Log File(s) at. Use Case 3.8.2 [REQ- The O-RAN SMO shall be able to request for a Performance Management ORC- Subscription towards the IMS (in the O-Cloud) using the O2 Interface to receive (Performance Management O2-37] performance reporting data (file ready, event notifications, or streaming events). Subscription) Use Case 3.8.2 [REQ- The IMS shall be able to create a Performance Management Subscription when ORC- requested by a subscriber. The IMS shall issue a notification of the status of the (Performance Management O2-38] Performance Subscription request. Subscription) When the subscription indicates that performance data should be sent (based on Use Case 3.8.3 [REQ- the subscription criteria), the IMS shall attempt to open a connection to a ORC- subscriber endpoint. If successfully opened, the IMS shall send a performance (Performance Measurement O2-39] event notification to the subscriber. Event Notification Reporting) When the subscription indicates that performance data should be sent in a Use Case 3.8.4 streaming session (based on the subscription filter), if there is not already a [REQ- persistent connection, the IMS shall attempt to open a connection to a subscriber (Performance Measurement ORC- endpoint. Streaming Reporting) O2-40] Alternatively, the consumer (FOCOM) may establish a communication session to the producer (IMS) [REQ- Upon, successful establishment of a communication session, the IMS shall send a Use Case 3.8.4 ORC- performance event notification to the subscriber. (Performance Measurement O2-41] Streaming Reporting) Use Case 3.8.5 [REQ- When the subscription filter indicates that performance data should be sent in a ORC- file, the producer (IMS) shall attempt to open a connection to a consumer (Performance Measurement File O2-42] (subscriber) endpoint. Reporting) Use Case 3.8.5 [REQ- The producer (IMS) shall send the Performance Data file(s), or the producer (IMS) ORC- shall send a file ready notification for the consumer to retrieve the files later over (Performance Measurement File O2-43] the O2 interface. Reporting) Use Case 3.8.5 [REQ- The consumer (FOCOM) shall be able to receive Performance Data file(s) from ORC- the producer (IMS) or receive a file ready notification. (Performance Measurement File O2-44] Reporting) [REQ- The O-RAN SMO shall be able to request provisioning of the base O-Cloud Site Use Case 3.11.1, 3.1.2 ORC- Network through the O2 interface, enabling infrastructure-level connectivity O2-45] among O-Cloud Nodes. Use Case 3.11.1, 3.1.2, 3.10.1, [REQ- The O-Cloud shall support the provisioning of the O-Cloud Site Network and the 3.10.2 ORC- O-Cloud GW via FOCOM over the O2ims interface. See note. O2-46] NOTE: Provisioning of O-Cloud Site Network and O-Cloud GW is realized, when applicable based on the O-Cloud Site networking realization, by means of provisioning of network resources on the O-Cloud Site Network Fabric and O-Cloud Site GW. The FOCOM (SMO) shall be able to send a create Kubernetes (K8s) Cluster Use Case 3.11.2.2 [REQ- with user credentials and requested capability parameters for the K8s Cluster. ORC- (Create K8s Cluster) O2-47] NOTE: These user credentials are later used to authorize the user to have access or use to the created K8s Cluster based on their role privilege (DMS privileges). [REQ- Use Case 3.11.2.2 IMS in the O-Cloud shall be able to process a request to create Kubernetes ORC- (K8s) cluster based on requested capability parameters. O2-48] (Create K8s Cluster) Use Case 3.11.2.2 IMS shall clean up after an exception of the create an O-Cloud Node Cluster request. (Create Kubernetes (K8s) [REQ- Cluster) ORC- NOTE: The specific details of actions or activities that are reversed to O2-49] accomplish a “clean up” is left up to implementation. Use Case 3.11.2.3 (Create O-Cloud Node Cluster using O-Cloud Template) [REQ- Use Case 3.1.8 The SMO (FOCOM) shall be able to request updating of the O-Cloud Resource ORC- state and status (functional status update) using the O2 Interface. O2-50] (Functional Status Update) [REQ- Use Case 3.1.8 (Functional Status The IMS shall be able to process and respond to a functional status update ORC- Update) request using the O2 Interface. O2-51] Use Case 3.7.9, 3.8.11 [REQ- The consumer (SMO) shall be able to issue a Query O-Cloud Info Request which ORC- is a generalized query for any Inventory object and its associated inventory (Alarm Dictionary Discovery Use O2-52] information over the O2 Interface. Case, PM Dictionary Discovery Use Case) The producer (IMS) shall respond to the Query O-Cloud Info Request over the Use Case 3.7.9, 3.8.11 O2 Interface by providing the information associated with the request Inventory [REQ- object(s). (Alarm Dictionary Discovery Use ORC- Case, PM Dictionary Discovery O2-53] NOTE: Upon receipt, the consumer (SMO) is expected to associate the new Use Case) Alarm/PM Dictionaries with the newly discovered Resource Types. An entity, or SMO, shall be able to perform Logging Management operations to Use Case 3.7.10 [REQ- administer, provision, and configure logging behavior using the O2 Interface. ORC- (Logging Configuration Use O2-54] Some examples include configuring the retention period of logs, activating Case) logging, configuring the logging rotation method, and configure Log Levels. [REQ- An IMS shall be able to process a Logging Management operation from an Use Case 3.7.10 ORC- entity or SMO requested over the O2 Interface. (Logging Configuration Use O2-55] Case) [REQ- Use Case 3.8.6 ORC- The consumer (SMO) shall be able to perform a PM Job Query towards the IMS (PM Job Query) O2-56] using the O2 Interface. [REQ- The IMS shall be able to process and respond to an PM Job Query from the Use Case 3.8.6 ORC- consumer (SMO) using the O2 Interface. (PM Job Query) O2-57] [REQ- Use Case 3.8.7 The consumer (SMO) shall be able to issue a PM Job Delete request to delete ORC- (PM Job Delete) PM Job(s) towards the IMS using the O2 Interface. O2-58] [REQ- Use Case 3.8.7 The IMS shall be able to process and respond to an PM Job Delete request from ORC- (PM Job Delete) the consumer (SMO) using the O2 Interface. O2-59] [REQ- Use Case 3.8.7 ORC- PM Job(s) shall first be placed in a suspended state before they can be deleted. (PM Job Delete) O2-60] Use Case 3.11.3.1 (Delete The FOCOM (SMO) shall be able to send a delete O-Cloud Node Cluster K8s Cluster Use Case) [REQ- request over the O2 IMS Interface. ORC- Use Case 3.11.3.2 (Delete O- O2-61] Cloud Node Cluster Created Using O-Cloud Cluster Template Use Case) Use Case 3.11.3.1 (Delete K8s Cluster Use Case) [REQ- IMS in the O-Cloud shall be able to process a request to delete an O- ORC- Cloud Node Cluster. Use Case 3.11.3.2 (Delete O- O2-62] Cloud Node Cluster Created Using O-Cloud Cluster Template Use Case) Use Case 3.11.3.1 (Delete K8s Cluster Use Case) [REQ- When the delete O-Cloud Node Cluster is done, IMS shall perform ORC- internal clean up and report resultant updates to O-Cloud inventory and Use Case 3.11.3.2 (Delete O- O2-63] communicate changes for those resources Cloud Node Cluster Created Using O-Cloud Cluster Template Use Case) The O-Cloud shall support the attachment of the Network Functions to the O- Use Case 3.10.1 (Network Slice Cloud Node Cluster Network via NFO over the O2dms interface. Creation Use Case), 3.10.2 [REQ- (Network Slice Deletion Use ORC-O2- NOTE: The relevant O-Cloud Node interfaces to connect to the O-Cloud Node Case) 64] Cluster Network shall be provisioned before being able to perform the attachment of the NF Deployments. The O-Cloud shall support provisioning of the O-Cloud GW ports connecting the Use Case 3.10.1 (Network Slice Transport Network Element where the following options are possible (depending Creation Use Case), 3.10.2 on the case): (Network Slice Deletion Use [REQ- Case) I. The Network Segment (e.g., VLAN ID) used for handover shall be ORC-O2- selected/reserved by the O-Cloud. 65] II. The O-Cloud shall be capable of receiving the Network Segment (e.g., VLAN ID) used for handover as an input for the O-Cloud internal configuration. [REQ- Use Case 3.8.8 The consumer (SMO) shall be able to issue a PM Job Update request to update a ORC-O2- 66] PM Job’s characteristics through request parameters towards the IMS using the (PM Job Update) O2 Interface. [REQ- Use Case 3.8.8 The IMS shall be able to process and respond to a PM Job Update request from ORC-O2- (PM Job Update) the consumer (SMO) using the O2 Interface. 67] The IMS shall be able to update the measure selection criteria which in turn will Use Case 3.8.8 cause the PM Job to update the different aspects of collection including the measured Resources, qualified Resource Types, collected Measures, and measure (PM Job Update) selection criteria. [REQ- ORC-O2- NOTE: If currently running collections are affected by a PM Job update, it will be 68] implementation specific as to what happens with data collection already in progress. For example, if a 5-minute interval PM Job is updated to now collect at 7-minute intervals and the update request arrives 2 minutes into the existing 5- minute interval. There would be an extra data point which could have a suspect flag. [REQ- Use Case 3.8.9 ORC-O2- The consumer (SMO) shall be able to issue a PM Job Suspend request to suspend 69] (PM Job Suspend) a PM Job towards the IMS using the O2 Interface. [REQ- Use Case 3.8.9 The IMS shall be able to process and respond to a PM Job Suspend request from ORC-O2- the consumer (SMO) using the O2 Interface. 70] (PM Job Suspend) [REQ- Use Case 3.8.10 ORC-O2- The consumer (SMO) shall be able to issue a PM Job Resume request to resume 71] (PM Job Resume Use Case) a PM Job towards the IMS using the O2 Interface. [REQ- Use Case 3.8.10 The IMS shall be able to process and respond to a PM Job Resume request from ORC-O2- the consumer (SMO) using the O2 Interface. 72] (PM Job Resume Use Case) An entity, SMO, operator shall be able to issue an Alarm List Configuration Use Case 3.7.11 [REQ- request to update the Retention Period for the entire Alarm List over the O2 ORC-O2- interface. The request may also include additional extension parameters specific (Alarm List Configuration Use 73] to implementation. Case) Use Case 3.7.11 [REQ- The IMS in the O-Cloud shall be able to process and respond to an Alarm List ORC-O2- Configuration request by adjusting the Retention Period or process additional (Alarm List Configuration Use 74] extension parameters and respond with the results of the operation. Case) [REQ- Use Case 3.1.9 The SMO (FOCOM) shall be able to request an IMS Software Update towards the ORC- IMS using the O2 Interface O2-75] (IMS Software Update) [REQ- The O-RAN O-Cloud Infrastructure Management Services shall be able process Use Case 3.1.9 ORC- and respond to an IMS Software Update request from the SMO (FOCOM) using O2-76] the O2 Interface. (IMS Software Update) [REQ- Use Case 3.6.2 The O-Cloud shall be able to heal NF Deployment(s), triggered either by a request ORC- over O2-DMS or via auto-healing triggers inside the O-Cloud. O2-77] (NF Deployment Level Healing) [REQ- Use Case 3.6.3 The O-Cloud shall be able to heal O-Cloud Node(s), triggered either by a request ORC- over O2-IMS or via auto-healing triggers inside the O-Cloud. O2-78] (O-Cloud Node Level Healing) [REQ- Use Case 3.1.10 The SMO (FOCOM) shall be able to request an update of a DMS software within ORC- an O-Cloud towards the IMS using the O2 Interface. O2-79] (DMS Software Update) The O-RAN O-Cloud Infrastructure Management Services shall be able to process Use Case 3.1.10 [REQ- and respond to a DMS Software Update request from the SMO (FOCOM) using ORC- the O2 Interface, and to perform consequently the DMS software update according (DMS Software Update) O2-80] to the request. [REQ- Use Case 3.7.12.2 The O-Cloud operator or SMO shall be able to initiate an alarm suppression ORC- O2-81] activation, deactivation, query, and update operation using the O2 Interface. (Alarm Suppression) [REQ- Use Case 3.7.12.2 The IMS shall be able to process and respond to an alarm suppression activation, ORC- O2-82] deactivation, query, and update request from the SMO using the O2 Interface. (Alarm Suppression) [REQ- Use Case 3.7.12.3 The IMS shall be able to notify the SMO using the O2 Interface when IMS ORC- O2-83] autonomously activate, deactivate, and update an alarm suppression. (Alarm Suppression) [REQ- Use Case 3.8.7 (Performance If the PM Job has an embedded subscription, the PM Job deletion request shall ORC- Measurement Job Delete Use cause the associated PM subscription to be also deleted. O2-84] Case) [REQ- Use Case 3.8.12 The SMO shall be able to perform a Performance Management Subscription query ORC- O2-85] towards the IMS using the O2 Interface. (Performance Management Subscription Query Use Case) [REQ- Use Case 3.8.12 The IMS shall be able to process and respond to a Performance Management ORC- O2-86] Subscription query from the SMO using the O2 Interface. (Performance Management Subscription Query Use Case) Use Case 3.8.13 [REQ- The SMO shall be able to perform a Performance Measurement Subscription ORC- update (embedded or normal) with an update order towards the IMS using the O2 (Performance Management O2-87] Interface. Subscription Update Use Case) Use Case 3.8.13 [REQ- The IMS shall be able to process and respond to a Performance Measurement ORC- Subscription update using the update order in the request from the SMO using the (Performance Management O2-88] O2 Interface. Subscription Update Use Case) Use Case 3.8.14 [REQ- The SMO shall be able to perform a Performance Measurement Subscription ORC- delete request towards the IMS using the O2 Interface. (Performance Management O2-89] Subscription Delete Use Case) Use Case 3.8.14 [REQ- The IMS shall be able to process and respond to a Performance Measurement ORC- Subscription delete request from the SMO using the O2 Interface. (Performance Management O2-90] Subscription Delete Use Case) Use Case 3.11.4.2 (Update The FOCOM (SMO) shall be able to send an update O-Cloud Node Cluster Kubernetes (K8s) Cluster)) [REQ- request over the O2ims Interface. ORC- Use Case 3.11.4.3 (Update O- O2-91] NOTE: The update request includes information to identify the O-Cloud Node Cloud Node Cluster using O- Cluster update and the update (increase or decrease) requirements. Cloud Template) Use Case 3.11.4.2 (Update Kubernetes (K8s) Cluster) [REQ- IMS in the O-Cloud shall be able to process a request to update a O-Cloud Node ORC- Cluster. Use Case 3.11.4.3 (Update O- O2-92] Cloud Node Cluster using O- Cloud Template) Use Case 3.11.4.2 (Update Kubernetes (K8s) Cluster) [REQ- When the update O-Cloud Node Cluster is done, IMS shall update the appropriate ORC- inventory. Use Case 3.11.4.3 (Update O- O2-93] Cloud Node Cluster using O- Cloud Template) [REQ- The SMO (FOCOM/NFO) shall support the capability to send O-Cloud Node Use Case 3.12.2 (O-Cloud Node ORC- draining request to the O-Cloud (IMS/DMS) over O2 interface. Draining Use Case) O2-94] [REQ- The SMO (FOCOM/NFO) shall support the capability to receive O-Cloud Node Use Case 3.12.2 (O-Cloud Node ORC- draining response from the O-Cloud (IMS/DMS) over O2 interface. Draining Use Case) O2-95] [REQ- The IMS shall be able to process and respond to a Query Information request from Use Case 3.1.11 (Query ORC- the SMO using the O2 Interface. Information Use Case) O2-96] [REQ- Use Case 3.7.13 The SMO shall be able to issue an Alarm Purge request that specify alarms to be ORC-O2- 97] purged towards the IMS using the O2 Interface. (Alarm Purge Use Case) [REQ- The IMS shall be able to process Alarm Purge request from the SMO using the Use Case 3.7.13 ORC-O2- O2 Interface by removing inactive alarms or acknowledge active alarms from the 98] Alarm List and respond to the request back to the requestor. (Alarm Purge Use Case) Use Case 3.8.15 [REQ- The SMO shall be able to request for a Performance Management Configuration ORC- to update attribute(s) of specified object(s) towards the IMS using the O2 (Performance Management O2-99] Interface. Configuration Use Case) The IMS shall be able process a Performance Management Configuration request Use Case 3.8.15 from the SMO and return a success or partial success based on outcomes. [REQ- (Performance Management ORC- NOTE: If a Performance Management Configuration update has a mixture of valid Configuration Use Case) O2-100] object(s) and attribute(s) and non-existing object(s) and attribute(s), then the operation will only be completed for the configurable attribute(s). This situation would return a partial success from the IMS to the requestor. [REQ- Use Case 3.12.3 (O-Cloud The SMO (FOCOM) shall support the capability to send O-Cloud Node(s) Cordon ORC- Cordon and Uncordon Use Case) request to the O-Cloud (IMS) over O2 interface O2-101] [REQ- Use Case 3.12.3 (O-Cloud The SMO (FOCOM) shall support the capability to send O-Cloud Node(s) ORC- Cordon and Uncordon Use Case) Uncordon request to the O-Cloud (IMS) over O2 interface O2-102] [REQ- Use Case 3.12.3 (O-Cloud The SMO (FOCOM) shall support the capability to receive O-Cloud Node(s) ORC- Cordon and Uncordon Use Case) Cordon response from the O-Cloud (IMS) over O2 interface O2-103] [REQ- Use Case 3.12.3 (O-Cloud The SMO (FOCOM) shall support the capability to receive O-Cloud Node(s) ORC- Cordon and Uncordon Use Case) Uncordon response from the O-Cloud (IMS) over O2 interface O2-104] Use Case 3.13.1 [REQ- The O-RAN SMO shall be able to request for a Heartbeat Subscription towards ORC- the IMS (in the O-Cloud) using the O2 Interface to receive a heartbeat messages. (Heartbeat Subscription Use O2-105] Case) Use Case 3.13.1 [REQ- The IMS shall be able to create a Heartbeat Subscription when requested by a ORC- subscriber. The IMS shall issue a notification of the status of the Heartbeat (Heartbeat Subscription Use O2-106] Subscription request. Case) Use Case 3.11.2.3 [REQ- The SMO (FOCOM) shall be able to send a create O-Cloud Node Cluster using ORC- O-Cloud Template. (Create O-Cloud Node Cluster O2-107] using O-Cloud Template) Use Case 3.11.2.3 [REQ- IMS in the O-Cloud shall be able to process a request to create an O-Cloud Node ORC- Cluster using O-Cloud Template. (Create O-Cloud Node Cluster O2-108] using O-Cloud Template) [REQ- Use Case 3.11.5.1 IMS in the O-Cloud shall be able to process a request to create Infrastructure ORC- Resources based on a declarative target. O2-109] [REQ- Use Case 3.11.5.2 IMS in the O-Cloud shall be able to process a request to update existing ORC- Infrastructure Resources based on a declarative target. O2-110] [REQ- Use Case 3.11.5.2 IMS in the O-Cloud shall be able to process a request to delete existing ORC- Infrastructure Resources based on a declarative target. O2-111] [REQ- The SMO shall be able to issue Networking Infrastructure Create provisioning Use Case 3.11.6.1 ORC- request(s) to fulfill the networking requirements for Node Clusters, including one O2-112] or more end-to-end Networks scenarios e.g., Intra-O-Cloud Site Intra-Cluster (Create Networking Infrastructure across O-Cloud Sites with a connectivity, Intra-O-Cloud Site Inter-Cluster connectivity, Inter-O-Cloud Site Template Use Case) Intra-Cluster connectivity, and connectivity to transport networks. The IMS shall be able to process Networking Infrastructure Create provisioning Use Case 3.11.6.1 request(s) to fulfill the networking requirements for Node Clusters, including one [REQ- or more end-to-end Network connectivity scenarios e.g., connectivity for an Intra- (Create Networking Infrastructure ORC- O-Cloud Site Intra-Cluster connectivity, Intra-O-Cloud Site Inter-Cluster across O-Cloud Sites with a O2-113] connectivity, Inter-O-Cloud Site Intra-Cluster connectivity, and connectivity to Template Use Case) transport networks. [REQ- Use Case 3.11.7 (O-Cloud The IMS shall be able to process and respond to query O-Cloud Template(s) ORC- Cluster Templates Discovery Use request from the SMO using the O2 Interface O2-114] Case) [REQ- Use Case 3.11.7 (O-Cloud The FOCOM (SMO) shall be able to discover available O-Cloud Cluster ORC- Cluster Templates Discovery Use Templates in an O-Cloud. O2-115] Case) [REQ- Use Case 3.11.7 (O-Cloud The O2 IMS interface shall be able to asynchronously notify the SMO of O-Cloud ORC- Cluster Templates Discovery Use Cluster Templates addition or deletion in the O-Cloud. O2-116] Case)

## 4.4 Requirements Relating to NF Deployment Descriptor
The following section contains requirements on the Deployment Descriptor for NF Deployment. The Deployment Descriptor shall contain deployment information that Use case 3.2.1 [REQ-DESC-1] enables the SMO, together with other input data to deploy an NF (NF Deployment Deployment. Instantiation) The Deployment Descriptor shall contain lifecycle parameters that enable Use case 3.2.1 [REQ-DESC-2] customization of an NF Deployment. (NF Deployment Instantiation) The Deployment Descriptor shall contain information related to cloud Use case 3.2.1 [REQ-DESC-3] resource requirements. (NF Deployment Instantiation)


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG6.TR.FOCOM-NFO-SMOS-NBI-R004-v01.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG6.TR.FOCOM-NFO-SMOS-NBI-R004-v01.00 O-RAN Work Group 6 (Cloudification and Orchestration)"
---

### 4.2.4 Create, update and execute existing O-Cloud provisioning request revision using same O-Cloud

### 4.2.5 Create, update and execute existing O-Cloud provisioning request revision using new O-Cloud
List of figures List of tables Foreword This Technical Report (TR) has been produced by O-RAN ALLIANCE. The content of the present document is subject to continuing work within O-RAN and may change following formal O- RAN approval. Should the O-RAN ALLIANCE modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released by O-RAN with an identifying change of version date and an increase in version number as follows: version xx.yy.zz where: xx: the first digit-group is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc. (the initial approved document will have xx=01). Always 2 digits with leading zero if needed. yy: the second digit-group is incremented when editorial only changes have been incorporated in the document. Always 2 digits with leading zero if needed. zz: the third digit-group included only in working versions of the document indicating incremental changes during the editing process. External versions never include the third digit-group. Always 2 digits with leading zero if needed. Modal verbs terminology In the present document "shall", "shall not", "should", "should not", "may", "need not", "will", "will not", "can" and "cannot" are to be interpreted as described in clause 3.2 of the O-RAN Drafting Rules (Verbal forms for the expression of provisions). "must" and "must not" are NOT allowed in O-RAN deliverables except when used in direct citation. Introduction This technical report explores and documents the impacts and gaps associated with the FOCOM and NFO SMO services and provides recommended potential requirements on the interactions of FOCOM and NFO SMO services with other SMO services by identifying and analysing the use cases as defined in O-RAN.WG1.Decoupled-SMO-Architecture, clause 5.6 and 6.1.3 [i.1].

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms
Void

## 3.2 Symbols
Void

## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.5], O-RAN.WG1.Decoupled- SMO-Architecture [i.1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.5] and O-RAN.WG1.Decoupled-SMO-Architecture Void

# 4 Analysis of FOCOM SMOS and NFO SMOS Use
Cases

## 4.1 Overview
The capabilities of the FOCOM, as O2IMS consumer, are to discover and manage the O-Cloud resources, while the capabilities of the NFO, as O2DMS consumer, are to orchestrate the NF Deployments, as specified in O- RAN.WG6.TS.O2-GA&P, clause 2.2.1 [i.4]. Clause 4 provides analysis and recommendations concerning the different orchestration use cases highlighting the required capabilities to be exposed by FOCOM SMOS and NFO SMOS, including new and existing use cases defined in other O-RAN specifications. Clause 4 introduces the roles of FOCOM SMOS Producer and FOCOM SMOS Consumer. The principle of these roles is the same as service producer and service consumer as specified in O-RAN.WG1.TS.OAD, clause 5.3.1 [i.7].

## 4.2 Use Cases for the Exposure of FOCOM SMOS NBI

### 4.2.1 O-Cloud resources related information Query

#### 4.2.1.1 High level description
This use case enables an authorized FOCOM SMOS Consumer to request a FOCOM SMOS Producer to retrieve information about the O-Cloud resources as provided by the IMS and O-Cloud templates identifiers supported in each O- Cloud. The O-Cloud resources include all the O-Cloud physical and logical resources. The FOCOM SMOS Consumer (e.g., an rApp or other SMOF), can query this information from the FOCOM SMOS Producer to understand the capabilities, relationships and characteristics of the O-Cloud. The O-RAN.WG6.TS.O-CLOUD-IM [i.8] specifies the information model about O-Cloud resources, which is structured, from an information modelling perspective, into different namespaces. The O-Cloud resources information may be cached within a FOCOM SMOS Producer and in that case FOCOM SMOS Producer can subscribe to receive notifications when there is an update to the O-Cloud resources using the O2ims interface.

#### 4.2.1.2 Sequence Description
Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification >>Uses<< Use Case Title O-Cloud resource related information Query Use Case The goal of the Query O-Cloud resource information Use Case is the following:
- To return information on O-Cloud resources as previously
Goal retrieved from the IMS. To return all information on O-Cloud resources that are specified in the query filter within the Query O-Cloud resource information request. FOCOM SMOS Consumer – An authorized consumer e.g. rApp or other SMOF, consuming the services of FOCOM SMOS Producer. Actors and Roles FOCOM SMOS Producer –As service Producer, receives Query O- Cloud resource information requests and sends back Query O-Cloud resource information responses. IMS - The IMS within the O-Cloud processes the Query Information request and receives the request over the O2ims interface. FOCOM SMOS Consumer knows about what information/data can be Assumptions used to filter a query for information. O-Cloud Operational – O-Cloud is operational and has registered with the SMO. Preconditions Privilege – The FOCOM SMOS Consumer is authorized. Ref to R1 interface: O-

# A FOCOM SMOS Consumer, sends a query request for O-Cloud
Begins when RAN.WG2.TS.R1GAP , information to the FOCOM SMOS Producer. clause 5.5.2.2 [i.6]. The FOCOM SMOS Consumer, initiates a Query O-Cloud resource information request with a query information payload which includes query filter. Step 1 (M) The query filter specifies the objects of interest in the Query O-Cloud resource Information request. A query filter may point to specific O- Cloud objects (like resources, artifacts, etc.) by referring to their attribution, as specified in the O-RAN.WG6.TS.O-CLOUD-IM [i.8]. On receiving the request from FOCOM SMOS Consumer, The FOCOM SMOS Producer authenticates the connection and processes Step 2 (M) the Query O-Cloud resource information request. FOCOM SMOS Consumer retrieve the available requested information. Based on the query request from FOCOM SMOS Consumer, if FOCOM SMOS Producer needs additional information it initiates a query request to the IMS On receiving the request from FOCOM SMOS Consumer the FOCOM ORAN.WG6.ORCH- SMOS Producer initiate a Query O-Cloud Information Request to IMS USE-CASES, clause over the O2ims interface to retrieve additional information. 3.1.11 [i.2]. OPT
> NOTE: The sequence of interactions between the FOCOM SMOS
Producer and IMS is specified in ORAN.WG6.ORCH- USE-CASES, clause 3.1.11 [i.2] If the Query Information operation was successful, the FOCOM SMOS Producer responds to FOCOM SMOS Consumer, with the results Step 3 (ALT) matching the Query filter in the Query O-Cloud resource information request. The information provided in the response message may contain additional details added by the FOCOM SMOS Producer. If an exception occurs during the request processing, the FOCOM SMOS Producer returns information to FOCOM SMOS Consumer about the exception and probable cause such as: Step 4 (ALT) 1. no existing objects or attributes exception encountered 2. IMS encountered an unexpected condition FOCOM SMOS Consumer receives the requested information or Ends when information on an occurred exception. EXCEPTION: QUERY WITH NO EXISTING OBJECTS OR ATTRIBUTES Exceptions This exception is encountered when a Query O-Cloud Information request specifies objects that do not exist. An exception notification will be returned; and the use case will end this situation. EXCEPTION: UNEXPECTED CONDITION The IMS encountered an unexpected condition, such as an internal software fault. An exception notification will be returned; and the use case will end this this situation. Post- N/A conditions [REQ-FOCOM-FUN[1], REQ-FOCOM-FUN[2], REQ-FOCOM- Traceability FUN[3]

#### 4.2.1.3 UML Sequence Diagram

### 4.2.2 O-Cloud template information Query Use Case

#### 4.2.2.1 High level description
This use case enables a FOCOM SMOS Consumer e.g. an rApp or other SMOF, to retrieve information about the O- Cloud templates such as template characteristics, metadata and instance parameter schema information from FOCOM SMOS. FOCOM SMOS Consumer may use this information to understand the characteristics of the O-Cloud Node Cluster that are based on the O-Cloud templates and utilize this information for use cases such as create, delete or update a O-Cloud Node Cluster etc.,

#### 4.2.2.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal Enable FOCOM SMOS Consumer to query O-Cloud template information FOCOM SMOS Producer as service Producer Actors and Roles FOCOM SMOS Consumer e.g. rApp or other SMOF N/A Assumptions 1) O-Cloud registration Use Case as defined in ORAN.WG6.ORCH-USE- CASES, clause 3.1.3 [i.2] has been executed and FOCOM SMOS Producer Preconditions has discovered the current O-Cloud template(s) information. 2) FOCOM SMOS Consumer query O-Cloud resource information which includes the information of O-Cloud template identifier matching O-Cloud site Begins when FOCOM SMOS Consumer intends to query the O-Cloud template information. FOCOM SMOS Consumer sends a request to FOCOM SMOS Producer to Step 1 (M) query available O-Cloud template(s) information. FOCOM SMOS Producer checks if the request received is from an authorized Step 2 (M) consumer. FOCOM SMOS Producer retrieves the available O-Cloud templates information Step 3(M) FOCOM SMOS Producer responds with O-Cloud template(s) information. Step 4 (alt) If an exception occurs during the request processing, the FOCOM SMOS Producer returns information to FOCOM SMOS Consumer about the exception and probable cause such as: Step 5 (alt) 3. no existing objects or attributes exception encountered 4. IMS encountered an unexpected condition FOCOM SMOS Consumer receives the O-Cloud templates information or Ends when information on an occurred exception. EXCEPTION: QUERY WITH NO EXISTING OBJECTS OR ATTRIBUTES Exceptions This exception is encountered when a Query O-Cloud Information request specifies objects that do not exist. An exception notification will be returned; and the use case will end this this situation. EXCEPTION: UNEXPECTED CONDITION The IMS encountered an unexpected condition, such as an internal software fault. An exception notification will be returned; and the use case will end this this situation. N/A Post Conditions REQ-FOCOM-FUN4 Traceability

#### 4.2.2.3 UML Sequence Diagram

### 4.2.3 Create, update and execute O-Cloud provisioning request using O- Cloud Template

#### 4.2.3.1 High level description
The use case aims to assign a suitable set of O-Cloud resources to create an O-Cloud Node Cluster. Before this use case is started it is expected that the FOCOM SMOS Consumer has discovered the O-Cloud Template information. O-Cloud Template information is the properties about the O-Cloud Template that is exposed by the IMS towards the SMO. See clause 4.2.2 for further information. To create an O-Cloud Node Cluster there are 3 different steps defined in this use case: 1. Create provisioningRequest revision 2. Update provisioningRequest revision 3. Execute provisioningRequest revision
> NOTE: Even though the use case describes the three different steps of creation, updating and execution, these steps do
not necessarily always take place sequentially, and these steps may be performed individually. Use case describes all of them for completeness of all relevant processes. The term “version” refers to an O-Cloud template with same O-Cloud template name but with a different O-Cloud template version. The term “revision” refers to O-Cloud provisioning request instance with same provisioningRequestId but different revisionId e.g. updated in order to prepare for an update of existing O-Cloud provisioning request instance. As specified in ORAN.WG6.ORCH-USE-CASES, clause 3.11.2.1 [i.2], the provisioning request from FOCOM SMOS towards the IMS at O-Cloud uses a declarative approach to create a O-Cloud Node Cluster. In this use case, FOCOM SMOS Consumer e.g. an rApp or other SMOF, request to FOCOM SMOS to create, update and execute a provisioning request based on supported O-Cloud Template. The provisioning request from FOCOM SMOS Consumer will be stored and version controlled inside FOCOM SMOS as a Cluster and Infrastructure ProvisioningRequest instance which is referring to one single O-Cloud Template (template name/template version). Version control of the ProvisioningRequest enables tracking of new revisions of the ProvisioningRequest with any updated instance specific configuration and enables roll back to an old revision of the ProvisioningRequest in order to restore an older configuration. FOCOM SMOS will do the feasibility check of the required resources requested from FOCOM SMOS Consumer.

#### 4.2.3.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use To create an O-Cloud Node cluster by creating, updating and executing the O- Goal Cloud provisioning Request instance based on an O-Cloud Template FOCOM SMOS Consumer – An authorized consumer e.g. rApp or other SMOF, consuming the services of FOCOM SMOS Actors and Roles FOCOM SMOS Producer – Receives create, update and execute request for the O-Cloud provisioning request and sends back responses. There are no assumptions for this use case Assumptions O-Cloud Operational – O-Cloud is operational and has registered with the SMO FOCOM SMOS Consumer has the O-Cloud resource information and O-Cloud Preconditions Template information (see clause 4.2.2) Privilege – The FOCOM SMOS Consumer is authorized

# A FOCOM SMOS Consumer, sends a request to create a draft O-Cloud
Begins when provisioning request revision FOCOM SMOS Consumer sends a request to create a draft O-Cloud provisioning request revision by referring to the O-Cloud and O-Cloud template information which includes templateName, templateVersion and Step 1 (M) templateParameters. See NOTE 1 FOCOM SMOS Producer create a draft revision and generates new Step 2 (M) provisioningRequestId FOCOM SMOS Producer sends an asynchronous response and Information Step 3 (M) about the state and status of provisioningRequest such as URI to fetch the information. FOCOM SMOS Producer validates the template parameter based on the O- Cloud template schema exposed as part of O-Cloud template information. Step 4 (M) See NOTE 2 Validation of the template parameter is failed, FOCOM SMOS Producer Step 5 (M) responds to FOCOM SMOS Consumer with provisioningRequestId and information regarding the validation fail. Validation is success, FOCOM SMOS Producer queries the IMS for identified resource types. Step 6 (M) See NOTE 3 Step 7 (M) IMS responds to the request After receiving the response from IMS, FOCOM SMOS Producer performs a Step 8 (M) feasibility check by validating if enough resources are available Validation of parameter and resource check success, FOCOM SMOS Producer Step 9 (M) respond with provisioningRequestId and resource check success. Validation of parameter success but resource check fail. FOCOM SMOS Step 10 (M) Producer respond with provisioningRequestId and information regarding resource check failure. FOCOM SMOS Consumer, may update the new draft revision of the O-Cloud provisioning request with the instance specific input data. Step 11 – Step 19 are optional. FOCOM SMOS Consumer sends a request to update the draft provisioning Step 11 request with provisioningRequestId and updated template parameters Step 12 FOCOM SMOS Producer sends an asynchronous response FOCOM SMOS Producer validates the template parameter based on the O- Cloud template schema exposed Step 13 as part of O-Cloud template information. See NOTE 2. Validation of the template parameter is failed, FOCOM SMOS Producer Step 14 responds to FOCOM SMOS Consumer with provisioningRequestId and information regarding the validation fail Validation is success, FOCOM SMOS Producer queries the IMS for identified resource types. Step 15 See NOTE 3 Step 16 IMS responds to the request After receiving the response from IMS, performs a feasibility check by Step 17 validating validates if enough resources are available Step 18 Validation of parameter and resource check success, FOCOM SMOS Producer respond with provisioningRequestId and resource check success. Validation of parameter success but resource check fail. FOCOM SMOS Step 19 Producer respond with provisioningRequestId and information regarding resource check failure. FOCOM SMOS Consumer request to FOCOM SMOS Producer to approve the draft and execute the O-Cloud provisioning request Step 20 (M) See NOTE 4 FOCOM SMOS Producer check if the provisioningRequest is validated and Step 21 (M) resource check success FOCOM SMOS Producer accepts and approves the Provisioning Request and initiate a request to create provisioning request towards the IMS at O-Cloud See NOTE 5 FOCOM SMOS Producer updates the fulfilled O-Cloud provisioning request Step 22 (M) with information on provisioned resources. If an exception occurs during the request processing, the FOCOM SMOS Producer returns information to FOCOM SMOS Consumer about the exception and probable cause such as: Step 23 (M) 5. no existing objects or attributes exception encountered 6. IMS encountered an unexpected condition FOCOM SMOS Producer rejects to approve the provisioning request with information of rejection. Step 24 (M) SEE NOTE 6 FOCOM SMOS Consumer successfully request the creation of an O-Cloud Ends when Node Cluster and/or infrastructure resources or when the use case has encountered an exception EXCEPTION: UNEXPECTED CONDITION The exception is encountered an unexpected condition, such as an insufficient Exceptions resources, creation failed, malformed request. An exception notification will be returned; and the use case will end this situation See NOTE 7 Post Conditions N/A Traceability REQ-FOCOM-FUN5, REQ-FOCOM-FUN6, REQ-FOCOM-FUN7, REQ- FOCOM-FUN8
> NOTE 1: A draft is a new O-Cloud provisioning request instance revision that is used by the FOCOM SMOS Consumer to
prepare the new configuration information that has not been approved and executed the requested instance
> NOTE 2: The validation is to provide feedback to the FOCOM SMOS Consumer whether the provided input data is compliant
to the O-Cloud Template schema, e.g., if some mandatory data is missing etc.,
> NOTE 3: FOCOM SMOS Producer needs to be aware of O-Cloud template parameters and template characteristics
provided in the O-Cloud template information representing the below information: 1. O-Cloud site 2. If node groups are used, number of nodes per group and eligible resource types (for instance compute and site networks) 3. If node groups are not used, number of nodes and eligible resource types (for instance compute and site networks)
> NOTE 4: An approve O-Cloud provisioning request instance revision is approved by the FOCOM SMOS Consumer and
accepted for execution by FOCOM SMOS Producer
> NOTE 5: The sequence of interactions between the FOCOM SMOS Producer and IMS is specified in ORAN.WG6.ORCH-
USE-CASES, clause 3.11.2.3 [i.2]
> NOTE 6: FOCOM SMOS Consumer repeats the update procedure (step 8-14) of provisioningRequest and triggers the
approve request only when the updates are successfully validated and resource check success.
> NOTE 7: After receiving the exception, FOCOM SMOS Producer will not automatically delete the instance of the
provisioning request. The provisioning request will be updated as failed with the failure reason. Based on the failure further actions to be done from FOCOM SMOS Consumer

#### 4.2.3.3 UML Sequence Diagram

### 4.2.4 Create, update and execute existing O-Cloud provisioning request
revision using same O-Cloud Template

#### 4.2.4.1 High level description
The use case aims to assign a suitable set of O-Cloud resources to update an O-Cloud Node Cluster and/or infrastructure resources using same O-Cloud Template. Before this use case is started it is expected that the FOCOM SMOS Consumer e.g. an rApp or other SMOF has acquired the provisioningRequestId by querying the list of already created and accepted provisioning request instance and has discovered the O-Cloud template information. O-Cloud template information is the properties about the O-Cloud Template that is exposed by the IMS towards the SMO. See clause 4.2.2 for further information. In comparison with the use case in clause 4.2.3.2, this use case takes as a pre-condition that a ProvisioningRequest already exists and the purpose is to update it by providing new/updated parameter values. To update an O-Cloud Node Cluster and/or infrastructure resources there are 3 different steps defined in this use case: 1. Create provisioningRequest revision 2. Update provisioningRequest revision 3. Execute provisioningRequest revision
> NOTE: Even though the use case describes the three different steps of creation, updating and execution, these steps do
not necessarily always take place sequentially, and these steps may be performed individually. Use case describes all of them for completeness of all relevant processes FOCOM SMOS Consumer, request to FOCOM SMOS to create, update and execute a new draft of O-Cloud provisioning Request revision based on the content from the current revision of the provisioning request and same O-Cloud Template version. See clause 4.2.3.1 for further information on the term “version”, “revision”, O-Cloud provisioningRequest instance and the purpose of version control of provisioning request.

#### 4.2.4.2 Sequence Description
same O-Cloud Template <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use To update an O-Cloud Node Cluster and/or infrastructure resources by creating, updating and executing the O-Cloud provisioningRequest instance Goal based on the content from the current revision of the provisioning request and same O-Cloud Template name and O-Cloud Template version FOCOM SMOS Consumer – An authorized consumer e.g. rApp or other SMOF, consuming the services of FOCOM SMOS Actors and Roles FOCOM SMOS Producer – Receives create, update and execute request for the O-Cloud provisioning request and sends back responses. IMS – To execute the request received from FOCOM SMOS Producer There are no assumptions for this use case Assumptions O-Cloud Operational – O-Cloud is operational and has registered with the Preconditions SMO FOCOM SMOS Consumer - Has acquired provisioningRequestId by querying the list of already created and accepted provisioning request and has acquired O-Cloud template information IMS - Declarative Provisioning request object exists Privilege – The FOCOM SMOS Consumer is authorized

# A FOCOM SMOS Consumer, sends a request to create a new draft to update
Begins when the O-Cloud provisioning request revision FOCOM SMOS Consumer initiates a request to create a new draft to update O- Cloud provisioning request revision request with template parameter and Step 1 (M) provisioningRequestId as a parameter. See NOTE 1 Step 2 (M) FOCOM SMOS Producer create a draft revision FOCOM SMOS Producer create a draft revision and sends an asynchronous Step 3 (M) response and Information about the state and status of provisioningRequest such as URI to fetch the information. Steps 4 to 21 on this use case are same as step 4 to step 21 of the use case specified in clause 4.2.3.2. But, Step 6, 7, 8 and Step 15, 16 and 17 in clause 4.2.3.2, will only be executed by the FOCOM SMOS Producer if additional O-Cloud resources are required due to the updated Provisioning request. FOCOM SMOS Producer accepts and approves the Provisioning Request and initiate a request to update provisioning request towards the IMS at O-Cloud See NOTE 2 Steps 22 to 24 on this use case are same as step 22 to step 24 of the use case specified in clause 4.2.3.2 FOCOM SMOS Consumer successfully request an update to an O-Cloud Node Ends when Cluster and/or infrastructure resources or when the use case has encountered an exception See clause 4.2.3.2 Exceptions Post Conditions N/A Traceability REQ-FOCOM-FUN9, REQ-FOCOM-FUN4, REQ-FOCOM-FUN6, REQ- FOCOM-FUN7, REQ-FOCOM-FUN8
> NOTE 1: A draft is a new O-Cloud provisioning request instance revision that is used by the FOCOM SMOS Consumer to
prepare the new configuration information that has not been approved and executed the requested instance.
> NOTE 2: The sequence of interactions between the FOCOM SMOS Producer and IMS is specified in
ORAN.WG6.ORCH-USE-CASES, clause 3.11.4.3 [i.2]

#### 4.2.4.3 UML Sequence Diagram
same O-Cloud Template

### 4.2.5 Create, update and execute existing O-Cloud provisioning request
revision using new O-Cloud Template

#### 4.2.5.1 High level description
The use case aims to assign a suitable set of O-Cloud resources to update an O-Cloud Node Cluster and/or infrastructure resources using new O-Cloud Template. Before this use case is started it is expected that the FOCOM SMOS Consumer e.g. an rApp or other SMOF has acquired the provisioningRequestId by querying the list of already created and accepted provisioning request instance and has discovered the new O-Cloud template information. O-Cloud template information is the properties about the O-Cloud Template that is exposed by the IMS towards the SMO. See clause 4.2.2 for further information. In comparison with the use case in clause 4.2.3.2, this use case takes a pre-condition that a ProvisioningRequest already exists and the purpose is to update it by referencing to a new O-Cloud template, with potentially providing new/updated parameter values. To update an O-Cloud Node Cluster and/or infrastructure resources there are 3 different steps defined in this use case: 1. Create provisioningRequest revision 2. Update provisioningRequest revision 3. Execute provisioningRequest revision
> NOTE: Even though the use case describes the three different steps of creation, updating and execution, these steps do
not necessarily always take place sequentially, and these steps may be performed individually. Use case describes all of them for completeness of all relevant processes FOCOM SMOS Consumer, request to FOCOM SMOS Producer to create, update and execute a new draft of O-Cloud provisioning Request revision based on the content from the current revision of the provisioning request and new O-Cloud Template version See clause 4.2.3.1 for further information on the term “version”, “revision”, O-Cloud provisioningRequest instance and the purpose of versioning the provisioning request.

#### 4.2.5.2 Sequence Description
O-Cloud Template <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use To update an O-Cloud Node Cluster and/or infrastructure resources by creating, updating and executing the O-Cloud provisioningRequest instance Goal based on the content from the current revision of the provisioning request and with new O-Cloud Template version and/or O-Cloud Template name FOCOM SMOS Consumer – An authorized consumer e.g. rApp or other SMOF, consuming the services of FOCOM SMOS Actors and Roles FOCOM SMOS Producer – Receives create, update and execute request for the O-Cloud provisioning request and sends back responses. IMS – To execute the request received from FOCOM SMOS Producer There are no assumptions for this use case Assumptions O-Cloud Operational – O-Cloud is operational and has registered with the SMO FOCOM SMOS Consumer - Has acquired provisioningRequestId by querying the list of already created and accepted provisioning request and has acquired Preconditions new O-Cloud template information IMS - Declarative Provisioning request object exists Privilege – The FOCOM SMOS Consumer is authorized

# A FOCOM SMOS Consumer, request to create a new draft to update the O- Begins when
Cloud provisioning request revision based on new O-Cloud Template FOCOM SMOS Consumer initiates a request create a new draft O-Cloud provisioning request revision request which includes templateName, templateVersion and templateParameters and provisioningRequestId as a parameter. Step 1 (M) templateName together with templateVersion uniquely identifies a template, where the templateName gives a human operator the association of what the template is meant for. See NOTE 1 Step 2 (M) FOCOM SMOS Producer create a draft revision FOCOM SMOS Producer create a draft revision and sends an asynchronous Step 3 (M) response and Information about the state and status of provisioningRequest such as URI to fetch the information. Steps 4 to 21 on this use case are same as step 4 to step 21 of the use case specified in clause 4.2.3.2. But, Step 6, 7, 8 and Step 15, 16 and 17 in clause 4.2.3.2, will only be executed by the FOCOM SMOS Producer if additional O-Cloud resources are required due to the updated Provisioning request FOCOM SMOS Producer accepts and approves the Provisioning Request and initiate a request to update provisioning request towards the IMS at O-Cloud See NOTE 2 Steps 22 to 24 on this use case are same as step 22 to step 24 of the use case specified in clause 4.2.3.2 FOCOM SMOS Consumer successfully request an update to an O-Cloud Node Ends when Cluster and/or infrastructure resources or when the use case has encountered an exception See clause 4.2.3.2 Exceptions Post Conditions N/A Traceability REQ-FOCOM-FUN10, REQ-FOCOM-FUN4, REQ-FOCOM-FUN6, REQ- FOCOM-FUN7, REQ-FOCOM-FUN8
> NOTE 1: A draft is a new O-Cloud provisioning request instance revision that is used by the FOCOM SMOS Consumer to
prepare the new configuration information that has not been approved and executed the requested instance.
> NOTE 2: The sequence of interactions between the FOCOM SMOS Producer and IMS is specified in
ORAN.WG6.ORCH-USE-CASES, clause 3.11.4.3 [i.2].

#### 4.2.5.3 UML Sequence Diagram
new O-Cloud Template

### 4.2.6 Registering FOCOM SMOS for PM DME datatypes and associated
operations

#### 4.2.6.1 High level description
The use case aims to register FOCOM SMOS as the data producer for a defined performance datatype in DME. PM data consumers e.g. rApps can discover these registered DME datatypes (see Note1) and can request or subscribe to performance data for that DME datatype. As part of the register procedure, the FOCOM SMOS derives needed Performance data/PM Job related details & then uses DME APIs (see Note2) for PM DME datatype registration by sharing PM data/PM Job related details (DME Type Information). FOCOM SMOS finally maintains mapping of created PM jobs for corresponding registered DME datatypes. Additionally, these registered datatypes can also be updated/deregistered as and when required using DME mechanism & FOCOM SMOS.s NOTE1: DME functionalities (Like Discovering registered Datatypes) are out of scope for this TR & are just mentioned to explain the need of this use case. NOTE2: R1 DME service APIs are defined in O-RAN.WG2.TS.R1AP [i.10], but DME SMOS APIs are not yet defined.
> NOTE: Detailed depiction of O2 interactions/actions towards O-Clouds are out of scope for this TR.

#### 4.2.6.2 UML Sequence Table
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Registration: The FOCOM SMOS registers as producer of data for a DME Goal (1) type.
- FOCOM SMOS: Data Registration Service consumer
Actors and Roles - DME SMOS: Data registration service producer.
- O-Cloud IMS: To execute the request received from FOCOM SMOS
Capabilities assessment/exchange between SMO/FOCOM & O-Cloud(s)IMS(s) to :
- Identify supported protocols, mechanisms, and formats supported by
Assumptions O-Clouds
- IMS reports Performance Measurement Jobs and details like collection
intervals to SMO
- The FOCOM SMOS is authenticated/authorized to access & use the DME
services. Preconditions
- Performance datatypes defined in DME SMOS
- Availability of Default/customized PM Jobs
FOCOM SMOS determines the need to register as a producer of performance Begins when data for a DME type. Using Capability info, FOCOM derives the “data type identifier and needed Step 1 (M) DME type information” required to register as producer against any DME Datatype The FOCOM SMOS interacts with DME SMOS for Registering DME datatype Using DME APIs to DME SMOS using DME datatype registration service API Reference: see NOTE2 FOCOM SMOS maintains mapping of PM jobs for corresponding registered Step 2(M) DME datatypes FOCOM SMOS registers as producer of performance data for a DME type & Ends when maintains mapping of PM jobs for corresponding registered DME datatypes. Exceptions n/a The performance DME type is discoverable by authenticated/authorized DME Post Conditions service consumers Traceability REQ-FOCOM-FUN11 Updating: The FOCOM SMOS as producer of performance data updates a Goal (2) DME type registration it has previously created.
- FOCOCM SMOS: Data registration and discovery service Consumer.
Actors and Roles
- DME SMOS: Data registration and discovery service Producer.
Assumptions
- The FOCOM SMOS is authenticated/authorized to access & use the DME
Services. Preconditions
- The FOCOM SMOS is registered as producer of data for a DME type.
The FOCOM SMOS determines the need to update a DME type registration Begins when previously created Based on Capability info changes (O-Cloud Level/PM Job level), FOCOM derives the updates needed on “data type identifier or on DME type Step 1 (M) information” required to update the previous configured DME datatype registration The FOCOM SMOS interacts with DME SMOS to Update DME datatype on Using DME APIs DME SMOS using Update registered service API Reference: see NOTE2 FOCOM SMOS updates the mapping list of PM job to registered DME Step 2 (M) datatypes The FOCOM SMOS has updated the DME type registration & updates the Ends when mapping list of PM job to registered DME Exceptions n/a The “updated” Performance DME type is discoverable by Post Conditions authenticated/authorized DME Service Consumer. Traceability REQ-FOCOM-FUN11 Deregistration: The FOCOM SMOS deregisters as producer of Goal (3) performance data for a DME type.
- FOCOM SMOS: Data registration and discovery service consumer.
Actors and Roles
- DME SMOS: Data registration and discovery service producer.
Assumptions FOCOM SMOS is not producing any data for the DME type.
- The FOCOM SMOS is authenticated/authorized to access & use the DME
Preconditions Services.
- The FOCOM SMOS is registered as producer of data for a DME type
The FOCOM SMOS determines the need to deregister as producer of data for Begins when a DME type that it no longer intends to produce. Interface with respective O-Clouds(O2 IMSs) & Delete mapped PM Job Step 1 (M) (Suspended State) accordingly [Refer ORAN.WG6.ORCH-USE-CASES, clause3.8.7 [i.2]] The FOCOM SMOS interacts with DME SMOS for Deregistering DME Using DME APIs datatype on DME SMOS using Deregister service API Reference: see NOTE2. FOCOM SMOS Updates the mapping list of PM job to registered DME Step 2 (M) datatypes The FOCOM SMOS was able to deregister the as producer of performance Ends when data for the DME type along with corresponding PM jobs deletion & mapping maintenance. Exceptions n/a The FOCOM SMOS will not receive any request of performance data for the Post Conditions DME type Traceability REQ-FOCOM-FUN11

#### 4.2.6.3 UML Sequence Diagram

### 4.2.7 Subscribing to PM Datatype/Dataset & associated operations
(Update/Remove subscriptions)

#### 4.2.7.1 High level description
The use case describes how an authenticated & authorized PM data consumer (like rApp) can subscribe and obtain PM data using DME mechanism & FOCOM SMOS NBIs. Additionally, these subscriptions can also be updated/removed as and when required using FOCOM SMOS NBIs. The use case also covers these operations (create/update/remove subscription) in multi-user scenario.

#### 4.2.7.2 UML Sequence Table
subscriptions) <<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Subscription: The DME service consumer subscribes & obtains PM Goal (1) data.
- FOCOM SMOS: In the role of “FOCOM SMOS Producer”
- DME SMOS: In the role of “DME Service Producer” & “FOCOM SMOS
Consumer” Actors and Roles
- DME service consumer: End consumer of performance data e.g.
rApps or other SMOF
- O-Cloud IMS: To execute the request received from FOCOM SMOS
Assumptions
- The DME services consumer is authenticated/authorized to access &
use the DME Services.
- The DME services consumer has obtained the registered PM datatype
Preconditions information e.g. by discovery.
- The FOCOM SMOS consumer is authenticated/authorized to access &
use the FOCOM SMOS services. The DME Service Consumer determines the need to subscribe to required Begins when PM data. The DME service consumer triggers subscription request of PM data with subscription request information. Step 1 (M) This information may comprise ConsumerId, PM datatype/dataset info, and subscription criteria (optional). The DME service producer validates the received subscription request Step 2 (M) information Alternative If no preexisting subscriptions for requested PM datatype/dataset Procedure (ALT1) The DME service producer creates a new Consumer Subscription identifier Step 3 (ALT1) entry on the PM datatype/dataset for that consumer [e.g. consumer subscription ID1]. Upon creation of Consumer Subscription identifier entry, the DME SMOS in Step 4 (ALT1) role of “FOCOM SMOS consumer” triggers a data subscription request towards FOCOM SMOS FOCOM SMOS identifies the corresponding PM jobs that are mapped with Step 5 (ALT1) the datatype/dataset. Refer Based on the requested subscription, FOCOM SMOS interfaces with ORAN.WG6.ORCH- Step 6 (ALT1) respective O-Cloud (O2 IMSs) functions & configures the requested USE-CASES, subscription to the mapped PM jobs. These PM jobs will be triggered and clause 3.8.2 & moved from suspended state to running. 3.8.10 [i.2] FOCOM SMOS responds back to DME SMOS with confirmation of Step 7(ALT1) subscription creation. The DME service producer maintains a mapping info of Consumer Step 8 (ALT1) Subscription identifier entry to subscribed PMdatatypes/dataset Alternative If preexisting similar subscriptions for requested datatype/dataset exists Procedure (ALT2) The DME service producer creates a new Consumer Subscription identifier Step 9 (ALT2) entry on the PM datatype/dataset for the new consumer [e.g. consumer subscription ID2] Step 10(ALT2) The DME service producer updates the mapping info of the already subscribed PMdatatypes/dataset with the new Consumersubscription ID Step 11(M) The DME service producer sends success response to DME service consumer (rApp) with the newly created Consumersubscription ID. Once Subscribed data is available. Based on requested (& Supported) Delivery mechanism FOCOM SMOS coordinates with respective O-Cloud IMS for Collecting & Step (M) Aggregating PM Data from Multiple O-Clouds FOCOM SMOS Transfer the needed notifications and Subscribed PM data Step (M) to FOCOM SMOS Consumer DME SMOS finally Transfer the needed notifications and Subscribed PM Step (M) data to end Consumer/subscriber End consumer is able to subscribe and finally receive needed notifications Ends when and Subscribed PM data Exceptions n/a DME service consumer/end consumer (e.g. rApp) is able to receive Post Conditions needed notifications and intended subscribed PM data Traceability REQ-FOCOM-FUN12 , REQ-FOCOM-FUN15 Update: The DME service consumer/end consumer (e.g. rApps) Goal (2) updates its previously created PM data subscription.
- FOCOM SMOS: In the role of “FOCOM SMOS Producer”
- DME SMOS: In the role of “DME Service Producer” & “FOCOM SMOS
Consumer” Actors and Roles
- DME service consumer: End consumer of performance data e.g.
rApps or other SMOF
- O-Cloud IMS: To execute the request received from FOCOM SMOS
Assumptions
- The consumer is authenticated/authorized to access & use the DME
services. Preconditions - The consumer has previously created PM data subscription.
- The DME services consumer has obtained the registered PM datatype
information e.g. by discovery. The DME service consumer determines the need to update a subscription Begins when it has previously created The DME service consumer triggers update request with subscription update information. Step 1 (M) This information may comprise ConsumerId, Consumersubscription ID and update information. DME SMOS (DME service producer) validates the received update Step 2 (M) subscription request Alternative If associated PM datatype is mapped with only single Procedure (ALT1) Consumersubscription ID DME SMOS (FOCOM SMOS consumer) triggers update subscription Step 3 (ALT1) request towards FOCOM SMOS producer Refer Based on the requested update, FOCOM SMOS interfaces with respective ORAN.WG6.ORCH- Step 4 (ALT1) O-Cloud (O2 IMSs) functions & configures the requested update to the USE-CASES, mapped PM jobs. clause 3.8.13 [i.2] FOCOM SMOS producer shares the update subscription success Step 5 (ALT1) response to DME SMOS (FOCOM SMOS consumer) Alternative If associated PM datatype is mapped with multiple Consumersubscription Procedure (ALT2) IDs The DME SMOS (DME service producer) removes the received Step 6 (ALT2) Consumersubscription ID as well as its entries from the Consumersubscription IDs - PMdataype Mapping table. Aligned to consumer update subscription changes, The DME service Step 7 (ALT2) producer creates a new subscription entry for the requested PM datatype/dataset for that consumer [e.g. consumer subscription IDx]. Upon creation of subscription entry, the DME SMOS in role of “FOCOM Step 8 (ALT2) SMOS consumer” triggers a data subscription request towards FOCOM SMOS FOCOM SMOS identifies the corresponding PM jobs that are mapped with Step 9 (ALT2) the requested datatype/dataset. Based on the requested subscription, FOCOM SMOS interfaces with respective O-Cloud (O2 IMSs) functions & configures the requested Step 10 (ALT2) subscription to the mapped PM jobs. These PM jobs will be triggered and moved from suspended state to running. FOCOM SMOS responds back to DME SMOS with confirmation of Step 11(ALT2) subscription creation. The DME service producer maintains a mapping info of Step 12 (ALT2) Consumersubscription IDs to subscribed PMdatatypes/dataset(as per update request) Step 13 (M) The DME service producer sends success response to DME service consumer (rApp) with same or newly created Consumersubscription ID. Ends when DME Service Consumer (like rApp) has updated the data subscription. Exceptions n/a Post Conditions n/a Traceability REQ-FOCOM-FUN13 The DME service Consumer/End Consumer (e.g. rAPP) removes the data Goal (3) subscription.
- FOCOM SMOS: In the role of “FOCOM SMOS Producer”
- DME SMOS: In the role of “DME Service Producer” & “FOCOM SMOS
Consumer” Actors and Roles
- DME service consumer: End consumer of performance data e.g.
rApps or other SMOF
- O-Cloud IMS: To execute the request received from FOCOM SMOS
Assumptions Preconditions - The Consumer has previously created PM data subscription. The DME Service Consumer (like rApp) determines the need to remove a Begins when subscription it has previously created The DME Service Consumer (like rApp) triggers Unsubscribe request Step 1 (M) towards DME service Producer by sharing details like (ConsumerId, Consumersubscription ID) DME SMOS (DME service Producer) Validate the Consumer’s remove Step 2 (M) subscription request Alternative If associated subscribed PM datatype is Mapped with multiple procedure (ALT1) Consumersubscription IDs DME SMOS (DME service Producer) Remove current Step 3 (ALT1) Consumersubscription IDs & update Consumersubscription IDs - PMdataype Mapping Table Alternative if associated subscribed PM datatype is Mapped with only single Procedure (ALT2) Consumersubscription ID DME SMOS (FOCOM SMOS Consumer) triggers remove Subscription Step 4 (ALT2) request towards FOCOM SMOS Producer [Refer FOCOM SMOS Producer in turns coordinates with respective O-Cloud ORAN.WG6.ORCH- Step 5 (ALT2) IMSs & remove Subscription entries from mapped PM Jobs towards IMS USE-CASES, clause 3.8.14 [i.2]] FOCOM SMOS Producer shares the remove subscription success from Step 6 (ALT2) mapped jobs response to DME SMOS (FOCOM SMOS Consumer) DME SMOS (DME service Producer) Remove this Consumersubscription Step 7 (ALT2) IDs & update Consumersubscription IDs - PMdataype Mapping Table DME SMOS (DME service Producer) response to DME Service Consumer Step 8 (M) (like rApp) with Successful completion of remove Subscription request Ends when DME Service Consumer (like rApp) has removed the data subscription. Exceptions n/a Post Conditions n/a Traceability REQ-FOCOM-FUN14

#### 4.2.7.3 UML Sequence Diagram
subscriptions)

### 4.2.8 Delete O-Cloud provisioningRequest instance

#### 4.2.8.1 High level description
The use case aims to enable a FOCOM SMOS Consumer e.g. an rApp or other SMOF, to delete the existing O-Cloud provisioningRequest instance. Before this use case is initiated it is assumed that all FOCOM SMOS Consumers have coordinated in regard to deleting the provisioning Request.

#### 4.2.8.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal To delete the O-Cloud provisioningRequest instance FOCOM SMOS Consumer – An authorized consumer e.g. rApp or other SMOF, consuming the services of FOCOM SMOS Actors and Roles FOCOM SMOS Producer – Execute the request to delete O-Cloud provisioning request instance. IMS - To execute the request received from FOCOM SMOS Producer 1. It is assumed that all FOCOM SMOS Consumers have coordinated in Assumptions regard to deleting the provisioningRequest 1. FOCOM SMOS Producer has acquired provisioningRequestId Preconditions 2. FOCOM SMOS Consumer is authorized to delete provisioningRequestId FOCOM SMOS Consumer intends to delete the O-Cloud Node cluster and/or Begins when infrastructure resources FOCOM SMOS Consumer sends a request to FOCOM SMOS Producer to delete the O-Cloud Node cluster and/or infrastructure resources with Step 1 (M) provisioningRequestId as a parameter FOCOM SMOS Consumer validates the request Step 2 (M) If the validation is successful, FOCOM SMOS Producer checks if the Step 3 (M) provisioningRequestId is in draft state. If provisioningRequestId is in draft state, FOCOM SMOS Producer delete the instance of the provisioningRequestId. FOCOM SMOS Producer responds to FOCOM SMOS Consumer Step 4(M) If the validation is successful, FOCOM SMOS Producer checks if the provisioningRequestId is in approved state. FOCOM SMOS Producer interacts Step 5(M) with IMS to delete the resources.
> NOTE 1
If success received from IMS, FOCOM SMOS Producer deletes the information Step 6 (M) related to the provisioningRequestId FOCOM SMOS Producer sends success response to FOCOM SMOS Step 7 (M) Consumer Step 8 (M) If failure is observed in IMS, FOCOM SMOS Producer responds with information about the failure If the validation fail, FOCOM SMOS Producer responds with information about Step 9 (M) the failure FOCOM SMOS Consumer successfully requests the deletion of the O-Cloud Ends when Node Cluster and/or infrastructure resources or when information about the failure is received 1. The exception is encountered such as O-Cloud Node Cluster not found,. An exception notification will be returned; and the use case will end this situation Exceptions 2. Validation Fail – This exception occurs when the validation of the request fails Post Conditions ProvisioningRequest instance is deleted and O-Cloud Resource is released Traceability REQ-FOCOM-FUN16
> NOTE 1: The sequence of interactions between the FOCOM SMOS Producer and IMS is specified in
ORAN.WG6.ORCH-USE-CASES, clause 3.11.3 [i.2]

#### 4.2.8.3 UML Sequence Diagram

### 4.2.9 Restore or Update O-Cloud provisioning request revision

#### 4.2.9.1 High level description
The use case aims to restore to a previously created and accepted provisioning request configuration. The procedure is the same as the update procedure i.e., FOCOM SMOS Consumer uses the previous provisioning request revisionId and updates the configurations. Before this use case is started it is expected that the FOCOM SMOS Consumer e.g. an rApp or other SMOF 1. Has acquired provisioningRequestId and O-Cloud template information. 2. Created and/or updated a draft provisioning request revision using same O-Cloud Template or different O-Cloud Template version.

#### 4.2.9.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use To restore/update to previously created and approved provisioning request Goal instance FOCOM SMOS Consumer – An authorized consumer e.g. rApp or other SMOF, consuming the services of FOCOM SMOS Actors and Roles FOCOM SMOS Producer – Receives update and execute request for the O- Cloud provisioning request and sends back responses. IMS – To execute the request received from FOCOM SMOS Producer 1. Previously allocated resources on the IMS have not changed compared to previously successfully deployed state Assumptions 2. In the failed state, IMS shouldn't release the requested resources by the FOCOM SMOS Consumer O-Cloud Operational – O-Cloud is operational and has registered with the SMO FOCOM SMOS Consumer - Has acquired available provisioningRequestId and Use case 4.2.2, O-Cloud template information. Has created/updated a draft provisioning request Step 1 to 3 of Preconditions revision using same O-Cloud Template or different O-Cloud Template version use case 4.2.3 and 4.2.4 IMS - Declarative Provisioning request object exists Privilege – The FOCOM SMOS Consumer is authorized

# A FOCOM SMOS Consumer, request to approve the draft O-Cloud provisioning
Begins when request FOCOM SMOS Consumer request to FOCOM SMOS Producer to approve the draft and execute the O-Cloud provisioning request with provisioningRequestId Step 1 (M) as a parameter See NOTE 1 FOCOM SMOS Producer accepts and approves the Provisioning Request and initiates a request to update provisioning request towards the IMS at O-Cloud See NOTE 2 A failure was observed, the FOCOM SMOS Producer returns information to Step 2 (M) FOCOM SMOS Consumer about the failure and probable cause FOCOM SMOS Consumer, may Alternatives: 1. FOCOM SMOS Consumer either update the failed configuration or 2. FOCOM SMOS Consumer restore to same configuration of the previous revision and use that in order to create the new revision with new revisionId Alternative 1: FOCOM SMOS Consumer initiates a request to create a new draft to update O- Step 3 (M) Cloud provisioning request revision request with updated template parameter and provisioningRequestId as a parameter Step 4 (M) FOCOM SMOS Producer create a new draft revision based on the updated configuration Step 5 (M) FOCOM SMOS Producer respond to FOCOM SMOS Consumer with provisioningRequestId as a parameter Alternative 2 FOCOM SMOS Consumer request FOCOM SMOS Producer to retrieve the Step 6 (M) previously approved revisionId of the provisioningRequest with provisioningRequestId, as a parameter FOCOM SMOS Producer fetch the previously approved revisionId of the Step 7 (M) provisioningRequestId FOCOM SMOS Producer respond with the revisionId Step 8 (M) FOCOM SMOS Consumer request FOCOM SMOS Producer to restore the Step 9 (M) configuration of the provisioningRequest with provisioningRequestId, and previous revisionId as a parameter FOCOM SMOS Producer create a new draft revision based on the previous Step 10 (M) approved configuration Step 11 (M) FOCOM SMOS Producer, sends an asynchronous response to restore request with provisioningRequestId as a parameter Steps 12 to step 28 on this use case are same as step 4 to step 21 of use case specified in clause 4.2.3.2. But, Step 6, 7, and Step 15, 16 and 17 in clause 4.2.3.2, will only be executed by the FOCOM SMOS Producer if additional O-Cloud resources are required due to the updated Provisioning request. FOCOM SMOS Producer accepts and approves the Provisioning Request and initiates a request to update provisioning request towards the IMS at O-Cloud See NOTE 2 Steps 29 to 31 on this use case are same as step 22 to step 24 of the use case specified in clause 4.2.3.2 FOCOM SMOS Consumer either 1. FOCOM SMOS Consumer either update the failed configuration or Ends when 2. FOCOM SMOS Consumer restore to same configuration of the previous revision and use that in order to create the new revision with new revisionId N/A Exceptions Post Conditions N/A Traceability REQ-FOCOM-FUN17, REQ-FOCOM-FUN4, REQ-FOCOM-FUN6, REQ- FOCOM-FUN7, REQ-FOCOM-FUN8
> NOTE 1: An approve O-Cloud provisioning request instance revision is approved by the FOCOM SMOS Consumer and
accepted for execution by FOCOM SMOS Producer.
> NOTE 2: The sequence of interactions between the FOCOM SMOS Producer and IMS is specified in
ORAN.WG6.ORCH-USE-CASES, clause 3.11.4 [i.2].

#### 4.2.9.3 UML Sequence Diagram

### 4.2.10 O-Cloud provisioningRequest status query

#### 4.2.10.1 High level description
The use case aims to enable a FOCOM SMOS Consumer e.g. an rApp or other SMOF, to retrieve the status of the provisioningRequest. Before this use case is initiated, FOCOM SMOS has created the provisioningRequestId.

#### 4.2.10.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use Goal To retrieve the O-Cloud provisioningRequest status information FOCOM SMOS Consumer – An authorized consumer e.g. rApp or other SMOF, consuming the services of FOCOM SMOS Actors and Roles FOCOM SMOS Producer – Produces the status information of provisioningRequest. IMS - To execute the request received from FOCOM SMOS Producer N/A Assumptions 3. FOCOM SMOS Producer has created provisioningRequestId Preconditions 4. FOCOM SMOS Consumer is authorized to retrieve the status information FOCOM SMOS Consumer intends to query the status of O-Cloud Begins when provisioningRequest FOCOM SMOS Consumer sends a request to FOCOM SMOS Producer to query the status of provisioningRequest with provisioningRequestId as a Step 1 (M) parameter FOCOM SMOS Producer validates the request Step 2 (M) If the validation is success, Step 3 and Step 4 are mandatory and use case ends. If the validation is fail skip step 3 and 4 and step 5 is mandatory and use case ends, If the validation is successful, FOCOM SMOS Producer retrieves the status information related to the provisioningRequest or optionally fetch the latest Step 3 (M) status information of the provisioningRequest from the IMS as defined in O- RAN.WG6.TS.O2IMS-INTERFACE , clause 3.4.6.2.4 [i.9]. FOCOM SMOS Producer responds with status information Step 4 (M) If the validation fail, FOCOM SMOS Producer responds with information about Step 5 (M) the failure FOCOM SMOS Consumer receives the status information of Ends when provisioningRequest or information about the failure Exceptions Validation Fail – This exception occurs when the validation of the request fails Post Conditions N/A Traceability REQ-FOCOM-FUN10

#### 4.2.10.3 UML Sequence Diagram

### 4.2.11 Support Fetching of PM Data through one-time/ad-hoc data requests

#### 4.2.11.1 High level Description
The use case describes how an authenticated & authorized DME Service Consumer can obtain PM data (without subscription) that it needs to consume, using DME mechanism & FOCOM SMOS NBIs. Before triggering the one-time/ad-hoc data requests, it’s considered that using DME mechanism, DME Service Consumer have discovered (& is aware of) the available PM DME datatypes.

#### 4.2.11.2 Sequence Description
<<Uses>> Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification Related use The DME Service Consumer obtains the data they intend to consume through Goal one-time/ad-hoc data requests
- FOCOM SMOS: In the role of “FOCOM Service Producer”
- DME SMOS: In the role of “DME Service Producer” & “FOCOM
Service Consumer” Actors and Roles
- DME Service Consumer: An Authorized end Consumer of
Performance data e.g. rApp
- O-Cloud IMS: To execute the request received from FOCOM SMOS
This use-case focuses on data requests for PM metrics which are dependent/mapped to PM jobs. Additionally, this covers Positive/Success Scenarios only. Assumptions PM jobs already exist during Registration step (& are kept in Suspended state unless datatype is Subscribed by any DME Service Consumer) Once data is collected for one-time/adhoc request, job state is changed back t o "Suspended" The DME Services Consumer is authenticated/authorized to access & use the DME Services. The DME Services Consumer has obtained registered PM datatype Preconditions information e.g. by discovery. The FOCOM SMOS Consumer is authenticated/authorized to access & use the FOCOM SMOS. Begins when The DME Service Consumer initiates the request data procedure. The DME Service Consumer sends to the Data management and exposure Step 1 (M) functions a request data request to obtain data for consumption, providing its Consumer identifier and data instance information. The DME Service Producer receives the request & validates request i.e.PM Step 2 (M) datatype/dataset correctness & if requested data is already available or not. Alternative If Requested data is already available (due to any preexisting subscription by Procedure (ALT1) some other DME Service Consumer). The DME Service Producer Retrieves Pull delivery details of data from Step 3 (ALT1) repository Alternative If Requested data is NOT available/collected previously (since datatype is not Procedure (ALT2) subscribed by any DME Service Consumer yet). The DME SMOS (as FOCOM SMOS Consumer) triggers PM Data Collection Step 4 (ALT2) request towards FOCOM SMOS. Step 5 (ALT2) The FOCOM SMOS identifies the mapped PM Jobs for requested datatype The FOCOM SMOS Interfaces with respective O2 IMSes & Triggers Step 6 (ALT2) (resumes) needed mapped PM Jobs The FOCOM SMOS Interfaces with respective O2 IMSes to Collect & Uses Step 7 (ALT2) <<O2>> service procedures for collecting requested PM Data. Once PM data transfer to repository is acknowledged by FOCOM SMOS Step 8 (ALT2) FOCOM SMOS responds back to DME SMOS (FOCOM Consumer) for PM data collection request with Pull delivery Details The DME Service Producer Retrieves Pull delivery details of data from Step 9 (ALT2) repository DME producer responds to DME Service Consumer with Pull delivery details Step 10 (M) of requested PM data DME Service Consumer triggers Pull PM data request (Using Pull delivery Step 11 (M) details) DME Producer responds to DME Service Consumer with Pull PM data Step 12 (M) response (PM data included in the payload.) The requested data have been delivered to the DME Service Consumer for Ends when consumption. Exceptions n/a Post Conditions The DME Service Consumer has consumed the requested data. Traceability REQ-FOCOM-FUN15

#### 4.2.11.3 UML Sequence Diagram

### 4.2.12 O-Cloud Platform Software Update Use Case

#### 4.2.12.1 High level description
This use case enables an authorized FOCOM SMOS Consumer to trigger an O-Cloud Platform Software Update (upgrades and downgrades) by interacting with a FOCOM SMOS Producer within the Service Management and Orchestration Framework.

#### 4.2.12.2 Sequence Description
Use Case Stage Evolution / Specification >>Uses<< To enable the FOCOM SMOS Consumer to trigger an O-Cloud Platform Goal Software update (upgrades and downgrades) by initiating the request and receiving acknowledgment through the FOCOM SMOS Producer. FOCOM SMOS Consumer: An authorized FOCOM SOMOS Consumer that requests O-Cloud platform software updates via FOCOM SMOS Producer. Actors and Roles FOCOM SMOS Producer: Validates and acknowledges the update request and initiates the update with the O2 IMS for O-Cloud Platform Software update FOCOM SMOS Consumer is authorized to initiate O-Cloud Platform Software update (upgrades and downgrades) Assumptions FOCOM SMOS Consumer has necessary information to trigger request for O- Cloud Platform Software update. O-Cloud Operational – O-Cloud is operational and has registered with the SMO. Preconditions Privilege – The FOCOM SMOS Consumer is authorized. The FOCOM SMOS Consumer sends a request to FOCOM SMOS Producer for Begins when a specific O-Cloud Platform Software update. The FOCOM SMOS Consumer sends a request to initiate a specific O-Cloud Platform Software update. The request may include details such as the O-Cloud Step 1 (M) ID, the scope of the update (a single O-Cloud node, an O-Cloud node cluster, or the entire O-Cloud), and the desired software version. FOCOM SMOS Producer validates the received O-Cloud Platform software Step 2 (M) update request. Alternative Procedure: Upon receiving a specific O-Cloud Platform Software update request from the FOCOM SMOS Consumer, the FOCOM SMOS Producer validates the request and, if successful, sends an acknowledgment response, and initiate request over O2 IMS to trigger Specific O-Cloud Platform Software update. If the request is verified, FOCOM SMOS Producer response to Acknowledge Step 3.1 (ALT) O-Cloud platform software update request with Acknowledgement ID. If validation fails, FOCOM SMOS Producer informs the FOCOM SMOS Step 3.2 (ALT) Consumer about the failure and provides failure details. Alternative Procedure: if verification succeed, FOCOM SMOS Producer start to interact with O2 IMS Ref Use case: 3.1.6 of ORAN.WG6.ORCH-USE-CASES [i.2] FOCOM SMOS Producer Notify to the FOCOM SMOS Consumer about the Step 4 (ALT) outcome of O-Cloud Platform software update request once it received the outcome over O2 IMS. The FOCOM SMOS Consumer receives the outcome of the O-Cloud Platform Ends when Software update request. Exceptions None The O-Cloud Platform Software is successfully updated, and a confirmation/notification is provided to the FOCOM SMOS Consumer. Post-conditions In case O-Cloud Platform Software is not successfully updated, the software update has been rollbacked as per the FOCOM-IMS procedure (see referenced clause 3.1.6 of ORAN.WG6.ORCH-USE-CASES [i.2]. [REQ-FOCOM-Platform SW Update-FUN19], [REQ-FOCOM-Platform SW Traceability Update-FUN20], [REQ-FOCOM-Platform SW Update-FUN21], [REQ- FOCOM-Platform SW Update-FUN22] 4.2.x.3 UML Sequence Diagram

# 5 Potential Requirements on the FOCOM and NFO
SMOS services

## 5.1 Potential Functional and Interface Requirements
REQ Description Notes REQ-FOCOM_SMOS-FUN1 The FOCOM SMOS should have the 4.2.1 (O-Cloud resources related capability enabling a FOCOM SMOS information Query Use Case) Consumer to query O-Cloud objects (like resources, artifacts, etc) and O- Cloud templates identifiers matching each O-Cloud site from a FOCOM SMOS REQ-FOCOM_SMOS-FUN2 The FOCOM SMOS should have the 4.2.1 (O-Cloud resources related capability to expose information information Query Use Case) about FOCOM SMOS exposed information about O-Cloud objects (like resources, artifacts, etc.) is exposed as READ ONLY” REQ-FOCOM_SMOS-FUN3 The FOCOM SMOS should have the 4.2.1 (O-Cloud resources related capability to subscribe to receive information Query Use Case) notifications when there is an update to the O-Cloud resources using the O2ims interface REQ-FOCOM-FUN4 A FOCOM SMOS Consumer shall 4.2.2 (O-Cloud template information be able to query information Query use case) contained in O-Cloud template exposed to the SMO 4.2.4 (Create, update and execute existing O-Cloud provisioning request revision using same O-Cloud Template)

### 4.2.5 (Create, update and execute
existing O-Cloud provisioning request revision using new O-Cloud Template) REQ-FOCOM-FUN5 The FOCOM SMOS shall have the 4.2.3 (Create, update and execute O- capability enabling a FOCOM Cloud provisioning request using O- SMOS Consumer to create, update Cloud Template) and execute O-Cloud provisioning request based on O-Cloud Template REQ-FOCOM-FUN6 The FOCOM SMOS shall have the 4.2.3 (Create, update and execute O- capability to handle the provisioning Cloud provisioning request using O- request revisions for instance by Cloud Template) using a version control system.

### 4.2.4 (Create, update and execute
existing O-Cloud provisioning request revision using same O-Cloud Template)

### 4.2.5 (Create, update and execute
existing O-Cloud provisioning request revision using new O-Cloud Template) REQ-FOCOM-FUN7 FOCOM SMOS shall have the 4.2.3 (Create, update and execute O- capability to validate O-Cloud Cloud provisioning request using O- provisioning request Cloud Template)

### 4.2.4 (Create, update and execute
existing O-Cloud provisioning request revision using same O-Cloud Template)

### 4.2.5 (Create, update and execute
existing O-Cloud provisioning request revision using new O-Cloud Template) REQ-FOCOM-FUN8 FOCOM SMOS shall have the 4.2.3 (Create, update and execute O- capability to do a feasibility check Cloud provisioning request using O- on the requested resources from Cloud Template) FOCOM SMOS Consumer

### 4.2.4 (Create, update and execute
existing O-Cloud provisioning request revision using same O-Cloud Template)

### 4.2.5 (Create, update and execute
existing O-Cloud provisioning request revision using new O-Cloud Template) REQ-FOCOM-FUN9 The FOCOM SMOS shall have the 4.2.4 (Create, update and execute capability enabling a FOCOM existing O-Cloud provisioning SMOS Consumer to create, update request revision using same O-Cloud and execute an existing O-Cloud Template) provisioning request revision using same O-Cloud Template name and O-Cloud Template version. REQ-FOCOM-FUN10 The FOCOM SMOS shall have the 4.2.5 (Create, update and execute capability enabling a FOCOM existing O-Cloud provisioning SMOS Consumer to create, update request revision using new O-Cloud and execute an existing O-Cloud Template) provisioning request revision using new O-Cloud Template version and/or O-Cloud Template name REQ-FOCOM-FUN11 FOCOM SMOS should be able to 4.2.6 Registering FOCOM SMOS support DME datatype registration for performance DME datatypes and process by handling tasks related associated operations concluding “data type identifier and needed DME type information” required to register as producer against any DME Datatype REQ-FOCOM-FUN12 The FOCOM SMOS NBI shall 4.2.7 Subscribing PM support necessary steps related Datatype/Data Set & associated to the creation of subscription of operations (Update/Remove Performance datatype/dataset. subscriptions) REQ-FOCOM-FUN13 The FOCOM SMOS NBI shall 4.2.7 Subscribing PM support necessary steps related Datatype/Data Set & associated to update of subscription of operations (Update/Remove Performance datatype/dataset. subscriptions) REQ-FOCOM-FUN14 The FOCOM SMOS NBI shall 4.2.7 Subscribing PM support necessary steps related Datatype/Data Set & associated to termination of subscription of operations (Update/Remove Performance datatype/dataset. subscriptions) REQ-FOCOM-FUN15 The FOCOM SMOS NBI shall 4.2.7 Subscribing PM receive and respond to PM data Datatype/Data Set & associated requests (ad-hoc or subscribed) operations (Update/Remove from DME SMOS. subscriptions)

### 4.2.11 Support Fetching of PM
Data through one-time/ad-hoc data requests REQ-FOCOM-FUN16 The FOCOM SMOS shall have 4.2.8 (Delete O-Cloud the capability enabling a FOCOM provisioningRequest instance) SMOS Consumer to delete the O-Cloud Node cluster and/or infrastructure resources REQ-FOCOM-FUN17 The FOCOM SMOS shall have 4.2.9 (Restore or Update O-Cloud the capability enabling a FOCOM provisioning request revision) SMOS Consumer to restore previously created and accepted provisioning request configuration. REQ-FOCOM-FUN18 The FOCOM SMOS shall have 4.2.10 (O-Cloud the capability enabling a FOCOM provisioningRequest status SMOS Consumer to retrieve the query) status of O-Cloud provisioningRequest [REQ-FOCOM-Platform Software FOCOM SMOS Producer shall 4.2.12 (O-Cloud Platform Software Update-FUN19] have the capability enabling a Update Use Case) FOCOM SMOS Consumer to request O-Cloud Platform Software update. [REQ-FOCOM-Platform Software FOCOM SMOS Producer shall 4.2.12 (O-Cloud Platform Software Update-FUN20] have the capability to validate the Update Use Case) request from FOCOM SMOS Consumer for O-Cloud platform software update. [REQ-FOCOM-Platform Software FOCOM SMOS Producer shall 4.2.12 (O-Cloud Platform Software Update-FUN21] have the capability to notify Update Use Case) FOCOM SMOS Consumer the result of a O-Cloud software update. [REQ-FOCOM-Platform Software FOCOM SMOS Producer shall 4.2.12 (O-Cloud Platform Software Update-FUN22] have the capability to notify Update Use Case) FOCOM SMOS Consumer the result from the verification of the O-Cloud platform software update request.

# 6 Recommendations
The current version of the present document has documented use cases and potential requirements as provided in section and section 5 and as summarized in table 6-1. The use cases describe potential interactions on the NBI of the FOCOM SMOS regarding:
- O-Cloud infrastructure and resources provisioning,
- O-Cloud performance data collection and monitoring
It is recommended to further perform an analysis of the identified use cases and potential requirements, in order to determine the concepts, capabilities and management aspects produced by the FOCOM SMOS to other FOCOM SMOS Consumer. The outcome of this analysis is recommended to be captured and incorporated into the FOCOM SMOS NBI Technical Specifications, while new FOCOM SMOS NBI use cases can be documented as part of existing ORAN.WG6.ORCH-USE-CASES [i.2]. The list of use cases is not completed, and it can be further extended and/or update in future versions of the present document. The analysis is also recommended to consider any new and/or updated use cases that might be documented as part of future versions of the present document. SNo Use Cases from section 4 Potential requirements from section 5

# 3 4.2.3 Create, update and execute O-Cloud REQ-FOCOM-FUN5
provisioning request using O-Cloud Template REQ-FOCOM-FUN6 REQ-FOCOM-FUN7 REQ-FOCOM-FUN8

# 4 4.2.4 Create, update and execute existing O- REQ-FOCOM-FUN4
Cloud provisioning request revision using same O-Cloud Template REQ-FOCOM-FUN6 REQ-FOCOM-FUN7 REQ-FOCOM-FUN8 REQ-FOCOM-FUN9

# 5 4.2.5 Create, update and execute existing O- REQ-FOCOM-FUN4
Cloud provisioning request revision using new O- Cloud Template REQ-FOCOM-FUN6 REQ-FOCOM-FUN7 REQ-FOCOM-FUN8 REQ-FOCOM-FUN10

# 6 4.2.6 Registering FOCOM SMOS for REQ-FOCOM-FUN11
performance DME datatypes and associated operations

# 7 4.2.7 Subscribing PM Datatype/Data Set & REQ-FOCOM-FUN12
associated operations (Update/Remove subscriptions) REQ-FOCOM-FUN13 REQ-FOCOM-FUN14 REQ-FOCOM-FUN15

# 8 4.2.8 Delete O-Cloud provisioningRequest REQ-FOCOM-FUN16
instance

# 9 4.2.9 Restore or Update O-Cloud provisioning REQ-FOCOM-FUN4
request revision REQ-FOCOM-FUN6 REQ-FOCOM-FUN7 REQ-FOCOM-FUN8 REQ-FOCOM-FUN17

# 10 4.2.10 O-Cloud provisioningRequest status query REQ-FOCOM-FUN18


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG6.TR.O-CLOUD-ES-R004-v03.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG6.TR.O-CLOUD-ES-R004-v03.00"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms
Forthepurposesofthepresentdocument,thetermsanddefinitionsgiveninO-RAN.WG6.CADS[1]andthefollowing apply.Atermdefinedinthepresentdocumenttakesprecedenceoverthedefinitionofthesameterm,ifany,inO- RAN.WG6.CADS[1].

## 3.2 Symbols
Forthepurposesofthepresentdocument,thefollowingsymbolsapply:

# P NFDeployment,estimatedEstimatedpowerconsumptionofaNFDeploymentrunningintheO-Cloud
EC NFDeployment,estimated EstimatedenergyconsumptionofaNFDeploymentrunningintheO-Cloud P cloudifiedNF,estimated EstimatedpowerconsumptionofaCloudifiedNF EC cloudifiedNF,estimated EstimatedenergyconsumptionofaCloudifiedNF EE cloudifiedNF EnergyefficiencyofaCloudifiedNF

## 3.3 Abbreviations
Forthepurposesofthepresentdocument,theabbreviations giveninO-RAN.WG6.CADS[1],3GPPTS28.554[2], andO-RAN.WG1.NESUC[19]apply.

# 4 O-Cloud Energy Savings background, concepts, and assumptions

## 4.1 O-Cloud Energy Savings Objectives
ThepresentTechnicalReportispartoftheWG6UCTGNetworkEnergySavingpre-normativephase.Theobjectivesof thepre-normativephaseareasfollows:  StudyO-CloudEnergysavingsUsecasesincludingpotentialrequirements,keyissues,andbenefitsof proposedsolutions.  StudyKPIsandfocusonspecifyingO-Cloudhardwareand/orsoftwaremeasurementandtelemetryforO- Cloudenergysaving,including: ‐ StudyifnewmeasurementsandtelemetrydataforO-Cloudenergysavingwouldbecollectedfromthe O-Cloudanddescribecorrespondingmeasurementsandtelemetrydatainappropriatespecifications. ‐ StudypotentialenergysavingrelevantmeasurementsandtelemetryforO-Cloudresources,resource pools,O-CloudnodegroupsandO-Cloudnodes.  StudypotentialimpactandenhancementstoO-RANinterfacessuchasO2IMS/DMS,O1,andR1. AlgorithmsdiscussedandanalysedaspartoftheO-CloudEnergySavingspre-normativephasewillbeexamplesonly andwillnotbepartofanyspecificationasoutcomeofthispre-normativephaseorsubsequentworkitems. Foreachusecasesolutionproposal,thedetailedobjectivesare:  Review,evaluateapplicabilityof,andselectfromexistingdeploymentalternativesandAI/MLdeployment scenariosanddocumentrespectivefindings: ©2025bytheO-RANALLIANCEe.V.Youruseissubjecttothecopyrightstatementonthecoverpageofthisspecification. 8 ‐ EvaluateenergysavingsgainsbasedonaO-Cloudenergyconsumptionmodel. ‐ Studyonapersub-usecasebasispotentialimpactandenhancementsonO-RANinterfaces(e.g. O1,O2, R)intermsofrequiredinputdataandoutputconfigurationdata. ‐ Reviewexistingcounters,KPIs,anddatamodelsasspecified/studiedinotherorganizations,suchas 3GPP. ‐ Studypotentialenhancementsonexistingcounters,KPIs,anddatamodelsordefinenewcounters,KPIs, anddatamodelsofallinvolvedO-RANentities.

## 4.2 O-Cloud Energy Savings concept and assumptions

### 4.2.1 Overview
Withthemovetowardscommercialoff-the-shelf(COTS)serversforO-Cloudimplementations,O-RANvendorsare freetoleveragethemanyexistingtechnologiesinCOTSserversandcloudsforenergysavings.Itisassumedthatsome ofthesetechnologiesmaybeusedinO-Clouds.Thissectionwillgiveabriefbackgroundonthedifferenttechnologies availableinmodernGeneral-Purposeserverssee[3].

### 4.2.2 O-Cloud Resource Energy Management

#### 4.2.2.1 Overview
AnO-CloudResourceisdefinedinanO-Cloudinfrastructureasonethatmaybeprovisionedandmanagedthroughan abstraction[1].O-Cloudinfrastructurehastwokindsofresources:physicalandlogicalresources.Aphysicalresourceis definedasakindofresourcethathasamanifestationintherealworld.Alogicalresourceisdefinedasakindof resourcethatusesseveralphysicalresources,oraportionofphysicalresources,orseveralsoftwareentities. Forexample,somekindsofphysicalresourcescouldbeservers,switches,andstorageunits. Forexample,somekindsoflogicalresourcesareOpenStackandK8sclusters. VariousEnergyManagementmethodscanbeappliedonO-CloudResourcestoreducethepowerconsumptioninO- Cloud.Someoftheexamplesaregivenbelow. CPUEnergyManagement-ApplyingvariousmethodstoadjusttheCPUfrequencyandVoltagetoreducetheCPU energyconsumption. ClockGating-DisablingaportionofacircuitinCPUthatresultsinlowerpowerconsumption. AdaptiveLinkRate-Withthistechnology,thedatarateforanetworklinkcanbeadjustedduringtheperiodoflow networktraffic. IdleStatesandPerformancestates-O-CloudResourcescanhavecertainidlestates/performancestatesenabledduring theperiodoflowutilization. ©2025bytheO-RANALLIANCEe.V.Youruseissubjecttothecopyrightstatementonthecoverpageofthisspecification. 9 Figure4.2-1:KeyComponentsInvolvedin/withanO-Cloud

#### 4.2.2.2 CPUEnergy Management

##### 4.2.2.2.1 Overview
EnergyefficiencyandmanagementinO-CloudcanbeaccomplishedbyCPUEnergyManagement.CPUenergy consumptioncanbemanagedbyintroducingdifferentlevelsofenergyconsumptionwithCPUfrequencyandvoltage scaling.CPUenergysavingscanbeachievedbymodifyingthepowerstatesofCPUorotherconfigurablemethodsfor CPUenergymanagement.

##### 4.2.2.2.2 DirectMethod
ThepredictableandlinearmethodtoscaletheCPUfrequencyandvoltage:  Sleepstates(C-States)-ThesestatesareusedtoalterenergyusagefromCPUsystemsinapowermanagement strategyemployedindependentlyortogetherwithP-State.  PerformanceStates(P-States) -ThesestatesareusedtoalterenergyusagefromCPUsystemsinapower managementstrategyemployedtogetherwithC-State.  ThermalStates(T-States)–Thesestatesareusedforthermalmanagementtoreducetheheatandpowerofa CPUbyfrequencyandvoltagescaling. C-statesarepowerstatesthataCPUcanusetoreducepowerconsumptiononaper-corelevel,oronaCPUpackage level,bypoweringdownportionsofthecore,package,orboth.Disablingportionsofthecoreallowsforlargepower savingsbutpreventsthecorefromexecutinginstructions.C-statescanbeusedtomoveindividualcoresorthefullCPU Packagetoanidlestate,reducingthepowerconsumptionoftheserver.Figure4.2-2belowshowsanexampleofsome ofthedifferentC-statesupported.NotethatotherC-statesmaybesupportedandhavedifferentcharacteristics. ©2025bytheO-RANALLIANCEe.V.Youruseissubjecttothecopyrightstatementonthecoverpageofthisspecification. 10 Figure4.2-2:C-Stateexample C-statescanbemanagedorcontrolledinseveraldifferentmethods  Hardware:Incertainconfigurations,thePowerControlUnit(PCU)intheCPUisresponsiblefor autonomouslycoordinatingcoreandpackageC-stateswhileBIOSconfigurationallowsyoutolimittheC- statesavailabletotheplatform,ensuringitnevergoesbelowyourrequiredC-state.Alternatively,Linux Kerneldrivers(suchasacpi_idleorintel_idle)andtheLinuxKernelschedulergovernC-states.  OperatingSystem:CoreC-statesarecontrolledbytheOSasdefinedbytheACPISpecification.TheOScan tellthethreadsinacoretogotoaparticularC-stateusingtheMWAITandMONITORinstructionfor example.InsupportedCPUs,applicationsoftwarecanusethewaitpkginstructionstorequestpower-optimised statesC0.1andC0.2forexample.  Application:SoftwaretechniquescanbeusedtoinfluencekernelcontrolofC-statesforexampleaSWthread thatsleepsusingstandardLinuxsystem,suchasusleep()canhelptheLinuxKerneltosleepthecoreifthereis nootherworktobescheduledonthatcore.InsupportedCPUs,applicationsoftwarecanusetheusermode waitpkginstructionstodirectlyrequestpower-optimisedstatesC0.1andC0.2forexample[5]. APerformanceState(P-state)isanoperatingpointwhereaCPUcoreisoperatingataspecificfrequencyandvoltage whileexecutinginstructions.AsthecoremovestolowerP-states,thefrequencyandassociatedvoltagedropsresulting inreducedpowerconsumptionandperformance.TheAdvancedConfigurationandPowerInterface(ACPI)definesthe performancestatesthatareexposedtosystemsoftware.SoftwareinterfacesallowP-statestobecontrolledpercore.P- statescanbeusedtodynamicallyreducefrequencypercore,reducingthepowerconsumptionoftheserver. P-statesmaybemanagedorcontrolledinseveraldifferentmethods  Hardware:Hardware-ControlledPerformanceStates(HWP)givetheoptiontopassP-statecontroltothe hardware,allowingittomakemuchfasterandfineradjustmentstothefrequencyandvoltage,basedoneach core’sloadandOShints.WithoutHWP,theOScandirectlyrequestP-statesthroughtheLinuxKerneldrivers (suchasacpi_cpufreqdriver,intel_pstatedriver).  OperatingSystem:P-statescanbemanagedfromuserspaceviatheLinuxKernelsystemfilesystem,suchas “sysfs”.Bydefault,theP-stateshaveamanagementroutineknownasagovernorthatdecideshowtocontrol thefrequencyinresponsetotheworkload.  Application:AsdemonstratedbytheDPDKPowerManagementlibraryauserspaceapplicationcansave powerbydynamicallyadjustingCPUfrequency.TheuserspaceapplicationcanrequestaspecificP-state configurationfromthekernel.
> NOTE: Linux®istheregisteredtrademarkofLinuxTorvaldsintheU.S.andothercountries.

##### 4.2.2.2.3 Indirect Method
Thesearethemethodswhicharecomplex,havedependenciesanddonotfollowthecause-and-effectpattern.By applyingthesemethods,theenergyconsumptionoftheCPUcanbereduced. ©2025bytheO-RANALLIANCEe.V.Youruseissubjecttothecopyrightstatementonthecoverpageofthisspecification. 11  CPUaffinity–AssigningspecificprocessesorthreadstoacorecanhelpimproveNFperformancewhichcan reducetheCPUenergyconsumption.  Consumingleastnumberofcoreswithtechnologysuchassimultaneousmultithreadingallowsothercoresto remaininlowpoweroridlestatewhichcanreduceenergyconsumption.  Scheduling–Schedulingofthreadsandprocessesinanenergyefficientmanner

#### 4.2.2.3 ModesandPoliciesforEnergy Savings in O-Cloud
AModereferstoasettingwhichcancontainasetofdifferentpoliciesand/orconfigurations,thataimstoimprove certaincharacteristicsofasystem,e.g.,forenergyefficiencyorperformance.SomeoftheModescanbeusedtosave theenergyofanO-Cloudbyrepresentingdifferentlevelsofenergyconsumption. AsdefinedinWG1.Decoupled-SMO-Architecture[4],section5.13.1,aPolicyreferstoasetofrules,guidelines,or conditionsthatgovernthebehaviorandactionsofO-RANresourcesandservices.Thesepoliciescanbeusedforenergy savingsinO-Cloud.

## 4.3 Architecture options to achieve energy savings optimisation

### 4.3.1 Overview
O-CloudNoderesources(forexamplecompute,network,storage)usedbyanNFDeploymentcanbeoptimisedto reducepowerconsumptionbasedoncurrentorpredictedresourceusage.Thefollowingsectionsexaminehowenergy savingsoptimisationscanbeappliedtotheO-CloudusingtheO-RANarchitectureandinterfacesandidentifyany potentialchanges.
> NOTE: TherecanbeotherpossiblealternativestoachieveEnergySavingsandOptimisationthatarenot
presentedinthepresentdocumentversion.

### 4.3.2 Energy Saving Policy applied via Kubernetes API
Description:  NFDeploymentscanbedeployedwithKubernetesExtendedResourcesthatareassociatedwithaspecific powermanagementconfigurationofthenoderesources.  Forexample,CPUcoresonaparticularnodearesettoacertainidlingmode(e.g.,c1),whenNFDeployment iscreatedthecontainer(s)thatrequestedthesecoresviatheExtendedResourcewillusethem.  PleasenotethatExtendedResourcescanalsobeassociatedwithasetupthatismoredynamic,itdependson theoperator/controllerfeatures,forexample,changingconfigurationofresourcesusedbytheNF Deploymentsduringacertaintimeofaday.  SMOviarAppcanlearntrafficpatternsandmodifytheExtendedResourcesconfiguration.Forexample, changingthehoursthatapplicationisusingahighperformancecoresandlowperformancecoresdueachange intrafficconsumption. NOTE1: TherealizationofthisoptionisdonewithKubernetes’soperators-CustomResourcesdefinetheenergy savingcapabilitiesandexposeittotheNFDeploymentsviaExtendedResourceswhicharedeclaredas partofNFDeploymentmanifests(e.g.,helmcharts). NOTE2: SMO/rAppcommunicateschangestotheCustomResources. NOTE3: Kubernetes®andK8s®areregisteredtrademarksoftheLinuxFoundation,intheUnitedStatesandother countries. ©2025bytheO-RANALLIANCEe.V.Youruseissubjecttothecopyrightstatementonthecoverpageofthisspecification. 12 Figure4.3-1:EnergySavingPolicyappliedviaKubernetes®API

### 4.3.3 Energy Saving Policy applied by NF Deployment
Description:  InthisoptiontheenergysavingpolicycanbeappliedbytheSMOandcanbeadjustedbytheNFDeployment oravailabledirectlyfromtheNFDeployment,meaningthatthatNFDeploymentappliesitsenergysaving policywithouttheneedoftheSMO,ifithasthecapabilityofdoingso.  Forexample,initialpolicywasrequestedforlowpowerconsumptionbetween2AMand5AM,however,due totrafficincreasetheapplicationadjustsitsassignedresourcestoaccommodatethenewtrafficdemand.  NFDeploymentusesO-Cloudresourceinterfacetoadjustpowermanagementofitsassignedresources (potentialnewinterfacebetweentheNFDeploymentandO-Cloud). NOTE1: ThisoptionrequiresanewinterfacebetweentheNFDeploymentandO-Cloud(cloudplatform)toadjust thepowerconsumptionofitsassignedresourcesbutappliesonlyforthecaseswhereNodeCluster resourcesareexclusivelyassignedtotheNFDeployment,notbeingsharedwithotherentitiesandother DeploymentintheNodeCluster,forexample,vfio. NOTE2: ItistheresponsibilityofthecloudplatformtodetermineiftheresourcesthatareassignedtotheNF Deploymentaresharedornot.Requestsforsharedresourceswillnotbegrantedandwillbedenied. NOTE3: Toimplementsuchinterface,theO-Cloud(cloudplatform)exposesanendpointtotheNFDeployment, forexample,thisexposurecanbedoneviathePodenvironmentvariables,exposingacertainportonthe Pod’slocalhost. NOTE4: ThisarchitectureoptionisallowingNFDeploymenttoadjustitsownallocated/assignedresources directlyandfast(lowlatency)whentrafficsuddenlychanges,however,thisoptioncouldpotentiallyface conflictingrequestsand/orraceconditionsespeciallyifalsocontrolledbySMO,whichneedtobetaken intoaccountwhenconsideringthisoptionandcreatingrequirementsaccordingly. ©2025bytheO-RANALLIANCEe.V.Youruseissubjecttothecopyrightstatementonthecoverpageofthisspecification. 13 Figure4.3-2:EnergySavingPolicyappliedbyNFDeployment

# 5 Energy Savings Use Cases

## 5.1 Use Case 1: O-Cloud Node Shutdown in Idle Mode

### 5.1.1 Overview
ThisusecasedescribesamethodtoperformO-CloudEnergySavingbyshuttingdownO-CloudNode(s)inidletimes throughNon-RTRICprovidedguidance. Typically,VirtualNetworkFunctions(VNFs)canberepresentedassingleorchainsofcloudresources(Virtual Machines(VMs)orcontainers)whicharedeployedinsidedatacentersonaO-Cloudsite..Inordertoachievecost efficiency,networkoperatorsaimatminimizingthepowerconsumptionoftheirNFVinfrastructure.Thiscanbe achievedbyusingtheminimumsetofphysicalserversrequiredbythevirtualfunctionsintermsofcomputing,memory, diskrelatedparameters. AO-CloudNodeasdefinedinO-RAN.WG6.CADS[1]isthebasiccomputationalresourcedesignatorandcanbe commonlythoughtofasaserver.ProgramsrunningonNodesarepackagedasworkloads.Acloudresourcemight comprisefunctionalitiessupportingoneormultipleNF(s)orpartsofoneormultipleNF(s).InsuchaO-Cloud environment,somenodesmaybecomeidleasworkloadsshiftandchange.Byidentifyingandshuttingdowntheseidle nodes,energyconsumptioncanbereduced,leadingtocostsavingsandincreasedefficiencyinresourceutilization. Non-RTRICcancollectO1andO2relateddata,storedatapatternsandresourceusage(CPU,memory,network,etc.) ofO-CloudNodes.Thisdataisutilizedtotrainapredictivemodelthatcanidentifyidletimeswhentheresourcesare notbeingutilized. Basedonthepredictions,non-RTRICcanrecommendtheshuttingdownofidleO-CloudNodestoreducecostsand improveefficiency.Itisimperativetonotethatthenon-RTRICtakesintoconsiderationthepotentialimpactofshutting downanidlenodeonfuturesystemperformance.Therefore,theNon-RTRICwillonlyrecommendshuttingdowna nodeifitpredictsaprolongedperiodofidleness,inordertoavoidunnecessaryandfrequentshutdownsandstartupsof nodes.
> NOTE: Thisuse-casetakesintoconsiderationtheassumptionthattheNodesareidle,andSMOhaverelocated
theworkloadsthatarenotautonomouslyrelocatedbytheDMS. ©2025bytheO-RANALLIANCEe.V.Youruseissubjecttothecopyrightstatementonthecoverpageofthisspecification. 14

### 5.1.2 Description and UML Diagrams
Table5.1-1:O-CloudNodeShutdowninIdleModeSequenceDescription UseCaseStage Evolution/Specification Goal ShuttingdownofO-CloudNode(s)inidletimesforenergysavingpurpose. ActorsandRoles CloudMaintainer:RecommendO-CloudNodeShutdown SMO(FOCOM/NFO):Actionstoimplementgoal Non-RTRICIncludingrAPP:O1&O2relateddataanalysis,recommendationtotriggerO-Cloud Nodeshutdown NF–NetworkFunction(Application) Assumptions - The“ServiceRequest”totheFOCOMincludestheidentifiersoftheO-CloudNode(s)tobe shutdown.
- ThetriggercanbegivenfromtheCloudInstallProjectManagerorrApps(viaNon-RTRIC).
- TheCloudMaintainerorrApphassubscribedtoreceivenotificationsfromtheSMO.
- SMO(FOCOM/NFO)cangetreccomendationfromrAppsviaNon-RTRIC,whererAppshas
itsownalgorithmthatdecideswhentoshutdownO-CloudHWnodes. Pre-conditions - SMOisavailable
- O-Cloudisavailable
- O2-IMSalarmeventshavebeensubscribedbyCloudMaintainerandorNon-RTRIC.
- Non-RTRIC/rAppcanreceiveO-CloudtelemetrydatafromFOCOM.
- SMOhasrelocatedtheworkloadsthatarenotautonomouslyrelocatedbytheDMS
- TheNon-RTRIChasprocessedarecommendationforshuttingdownaO-CloudHW
Node(s),basedonthepredictionofanextendedperiodofidlenessfortheinvolvedO-Cloud Node(s). Beginswhen TherecommendationforshuttingdownexistingO-CloudNode(s)hasbeencompletedCloud MaintainerorbyrAppsviaNon-RTRIC. Step1,2(M) CloudMaintainerorrAppsviaNon-RTRICrecommendsFOCOMtoshutdowntheO-CloudHW node(s) Step3(M) FOCOMrequeststoIMStoshutdowndownoneormoreO-CloudHWNodes. Step4(M) IMSshutdowntherequestedO-Cloudnodes. Step5(M) IMSinformsSMOthattheO-CloudHWNode(s)Shutdowniscompleted. Step6(M) FOCOM informsNon-RTRIC(rApp)throughSMOthattheO-CloudHWNode(s)Shutdownis completed. Endswhen O-CloudHWnode(s)havebeenshutdown. Post-conditions O-CloudHWNode(s)havebeenShutdownforenergysaving. SMO/Non-RTRICcontinuestomonitortheloadontheO-Cloudbycollectingandmonitoringthe relevantperformanceandmatricesusingO1andO2. Traceability Traceabilityhasnotbeenspecifiedinthepresentdocument. ©2025bytheO-RANALLIANCEe.V.Youruseissubjecttothecopyrightstatementonthecoverpageofthisspecification. 15 Figure5.1-1:O-CloudNodeShutdowninIdleMode

### 5.1.3 Potential Requirements
> NOTE: PotentialrequirementsforWG6,aswellashighlevelrequirementsforotherO-RANWGshavenotbeen
specifiedinthepresentdocument.

## 5.2 Use Case 2: CPU core frequency and pinning configuration
change by SMO

### 5.2.1 Overview
ThisUseCasedescribesCPUcorefrequencyandpinningchangesforO-Cloudplatformbasedonenergysavingpolicy whichisgeneratedbynon-RTRICorCloudOperator,especiallyfortheCPUallocatedtoVNF/CNFinidleorlow CPUutilization/loadtosaveenergy.Thiscanbeoneofthepossibledeploymentscenarios,forinstance,smallsite deploymentscenarios. WhentheservicethroughputorUEnumbersarelow,aswellasCPUutilizationorloadofVNF/CNFislow,theCPU frequencymodeallocatedtodedicatedVNF/CNFcanbechangedtoenergysavingmode,or someoftheCPUcoresfor dedicatedVNF/CNFcanbeclosedbasedontheCPUcorepinning,or theCPUstatesfordedicatedVNF/CNFcanbe changedtosaveO-Cloudenergy. ForExample:O-Cloudtelemetrydata,suchasCPUFrequency,CPUUtilization,CPUTemperature,CPUStateetc.,can becollectedthroughO2imsandO2dmsandreportedtoSMO.Furthermore,configurationdataoftheCPU,suchas CPUcorepinninginformation,vCPUnumberetc.,canbecollectedbySMOaswellassentbyO-CloudtoSMO throughO2interface.ThentheO-CloudenergysavingpolicybasedonSMOpre-configuredorgeneratedbyCloud OperatororNon-RTRIC/rApp,suchasCPUfrequencymodeorCPUcoresconfigurationfordedicatedVNF/CNF,will ©2025bytheO-RANALLIANCEe.V.Youruseissubjecttothecopyrightstatementonthecoverpageofthisspecification. 16 begeneratedandprovidedthroughO2ims/O2dmstohelpupdateVNF/CNFdeploymentforenergysaving.Furthermore, theO-CloudenergysavingpolicygenerationcouldbefurthercombinedwithO1telemetrydataforVNF/CNFtoensure VNF/CNFperformance. NOTE1: Inthisusecase,O-Cloudenergysavingpolicycanbepre-configuredbySMO,givenfromCloud OperatortoNFO/FOCOMoritcanbeautomaticallytriggeredfromNon-RTRIC/rApp. NOTE2: Inthisusecase,O1telemetrydataintegrationwithO-Cloudenergysavingpolicygenerationisoutofthe scopeofthepresentdocument. NOTE3: Thisusecasemaybeapplicableforscenarioswherethededicated/isolatedcoresareallocatedforan application. NOTE4: Thescenariosforsharedcoresbetweendifferentapplicationshasnotbeenspecifiedinthepresent document. NOTE5: Atthetimeofdevelopingthisusecase,theoverallenergysavingpolicyconcepthasnotyetfully developed.Also,therolesandresponsibilityofNFO,FOCOM,DMS,IMSandnon-RT/rAppneedstobe furtheraligned.Itisexpectedthatthepotentialrequirementswhicharedescribedinclause5.2.3willbe refinedasenergysavingpolicyconceptandarchitectureevolve. ©2025bytheO-RANALLIANCEe.V.Youruseissubjecttothecopyrightstatementonthecoverpageofthisspecification. 17

### 5.2.2 Description and UMLDiagrams
Table5.2-1:CPUcorefrequencyandpinningconfigurationSequenceDescription UseCaseStage Evolution/Specification CPUcorefrequencyandpinningconfigurationforO-Cloudplatform,especiallyfortheCPU Goal allocatedtoVNF/CNFinidleorlowCPUutilization/loadtosaveenergy. CloudOperator SMO: ActorsandRoles NFO,FOCOM Non-RTRIC/rApp O-CloudPlatform:DMS,IMS
- The“ServiceRequest” fordatacollectionanddeploymanagementincludestheidentifiersof
thetargetVNF/CNFinstancesandtheO-CloudnodewheretheVNF/CNFislocated.
- TheO-Cloudenergysavingpolicycanbepre-configuredbySMOinternally,orgivenfrom
Assumptions theCloudOperatororNon-RTRIC/rApps.
- NFOcangettriggerfromNon-RTRIC/rApp,whererAppshasitsownalgorithmwhich
decideswhatCPUconfigurationforVNF/CNF,andwhentoupdateit.
- SMOisavailable
- O-Cloudisavailable
Pre-conditions - VNF/CNFhasbeensuccessfullydeployed.
- VNF/CNFmonitoringisinplaceandactive.
- Non-RTRIC/rAppcanreceiveO-CloudtelemetrydatafromO2interface.
TheenergysavingrelateddataistobecollectedandCPUconfiguration,suchasCPUfrequency Beginswhen modeorCPUcoresfordedicatedVNF/CNFistobedetermined. TheO-CloudtelemetrydataisreceivedbySMOthroughO2interface,forexampleFOCOM receivesO-CloudIMStelemetrydatathroughO2ims,andNFOreceivesO-CloudDMStelemetry datathroughO2dms. Step1(M) Alternatively,theO-Cloudtelemetrydata,includingIMSandDMStelemetrydatacanbefurther reportedtoNon-RTRIC/rApporCloudOperator. TheO-CloudtelemetrydatamayincludesCPUFrequency,CPUUtilization,CPUTemperature, CPUpowerState,etctohelpgenerateO-CloudCPUconfiguration. Non-RTRIC/rApporCloudOperatormonitorsO-CloudperformancebasedonthereceivedO- Step2(O) Cloudtelemetrydata,andbasedonsuchtelemetrydata,itgeneratesanO-Cloudenergysaving policy. Step3(O) Non-RTRIC/rApporCloudOperatorsendtheO-CloudenergysavingpolicytoNFOorFOCOM. SMO(NFO/FOCOM)sendsCPUconfigurationrequesttoO-CloudthroughO2dmsorO2ims suchasCPUfrequencymode,CPUcorepinningconfiguration fordedicatedVNF/CNF,vCPU Step4(M) number,whichindicatestheCPUconfigurationforO-Cloudnetworkfunctions,basedonthe receivedO-Cloudtelemetrydataaswellastheenergysavingpolicypre-configuredbySMO internally,orgeneratedbyCloudOperatororNon-RTRIC/rApp(seenote). O-CloudIMSorDMSupdatestheVNF/CNFdeploymentbasedontheCPUconfigurationfrom Step5(M) NFOorFOCOM,suchasconfiguringCPUfrequencymodeorconfiguringCPUcorepinning. Step6(M) O-CloudDMSorIMSinformsSMOthattheCPUconfigurationforVNF/CNFiscompleted. Step7(O) SMOinformsNon-RTRIC/rApporCloudOperatorthechangeofCPUconfiguration. Endswhen TheCPUconfigurationactionforVNF/CNFiscompletedsuccessfully. TheCPUconfigurationactionforVNF/CNFisfailedduringtheexecutionoftheconfiguration Exceptions change,suchastheVNF/CNFhavebeenterminatedorcorrespondingO-CloudHWnodehave beenshutdown. SMOcontinuestomonitortheperformanceontheO-Cloudbycollectingandmonitoringthe Post-conditions relevantmatricesthroughO2interface. Traceability [5.2.3.1][5.2.3.2][5.2.3.4][5.2.3.5]
> NOTE: TheapplicationdowntimewhilechangetheCPUconfigurationwilldependontheimplementation,suchas
therunningapplicationsaswellastheapplicationsthatacceptdowntimewithinacertainrange. ©2025bytheO-RANALLIANCEe.V.Youruseissubjecttothecopyrightstatementonthecoverpageofthisspecification. 18 Figure5.2-1:CPUcorefrequencyandpinningconfigurationchangebySMO

### 5.2.3 Potential Requirements

#### 5.2.3.1 General
O2supportsO-Cloudinformationtoidentifytheclusterandthenetworkfunctioninstance. ©2025bytheO-RANALLIANCEe.V.Youruseissubjecttothecopyrightstatementonthecoverpageofthisspecification. 19

#### 5.2.3.2 MeasurementandConfigurationdata
O-CloudresourceconsumptionandconfigurationaremadeavailabletoSMOthroughO2interface. 5.2.3.3Security
> NOTE: Potentialrequirementsforsecurityhavenotbeenspecifiedinthepresentdocument.

#### 5.2.3.4 O-CloudSupport
ThisusecasehasmultipledependenciesofO-Cloudcapabilities:  O-CloudhasacapabilitytocollecttheO-CloudhardwareresourceinformationandtelemetrysuchasCPU Frequency,CPUUtilization,CPUcorePinning,vCPUnumber,CPUTemperature,CPUState.  O-CloudhasacapabilitytoexposeorshareO-CloudhardwareresourcedatatoSMOthroughO2interface.  O-CloudhasacapabilitytoreceivespecificCPUconfigurationofspecificNFdeploymentinstance,where CPUconfigurationdatacanbeCPUFrequency,CPUcorePinning.

#### 5.2.3.5 HighLevelRequirements forotherO-RANWGs
DifferentoptionsforO-Cloudenergysavingpolicygeneratedinthisusecasecallsforjointlycollaborationwith differentworkingWGswithascopedescribingenergysavingpolicy,architectures,andOAM,suchtopicsarethe following:  O-CloudenergysavingpolicyismadeavailablebyCloudOperator,Non-RTRIC/rApp,orothers.  O-Cloudenergysavingtelemetrydata(fromO2)couldbefurthercombinedwithO1telemetrydatafor VNF/CNFtoensureVNF/CNFperformance.O1integrationisoutthescopeofthepresentdocument.  SMOiscapabletoreceiveandprocesstheenergysavingpolicy.  SMOhasacapabilitytorequesttheinformationonceO-Cloudhardwareresourcechanges.

## 5.3 Use Case 3: C-state usage for NF Deployment

### 5.3.1 Overview
ThisUseCasedescribesascenariowhereaNFDeploymentmayrequestdeploymentwithaspecific energysavings configuration(C-stateconfiguration)ofaCPUduringNFDeploymentinstantiation.TheO-Cloudmaychangethe energysavingconfigurationtosupportsucharequest.

### 5.3.2 C-state Configuration for NF Deployments
TheO-CloudmayneedtosupportNFDeploymentsthathavedifferentdeploymentrequirementsforC-state configuration.InthefigurebelowanexamplescenarioisdepictedwhereoneNFDeployment(NFDeployment1) supportsuptoC6statewhileanotherNFDeployment(NFDeployment2)onlysupportsuptoC1state.Inaddition therecanbescenariosthatwithinaNFDeploymenttheremaybedifferentrequirementsforC-statecontrolonaper corebasis.InthesamefigureNFDeployment2hassuchascenariowhereitrequiresseveralcoreswithC1-state enabledandonecore(CoreN)withC-statesdisabled(oronlyC0enabled). TheO-Cloudshouldalsobecapableofconfiguringtheun-usedcoresintoC6-statewhenthereisnoworkloaddeployed onthem,seeninthebelowfigureinCore2. ©2025bytheO-RANALLIANCEe.V.Youruseissubjecttothecopyrightstatementonthecoverpageofthisspecification. 20 Figure5.3-1:C-stateusageforNFDeployment ThemainchangeforthisusecaseistosupportenergysavingsC-stateconfigurationinthedefinitionoftheDeployment Artifact(s),whichshouldbeupdatedtoincludeO-CloudenergysavingsC-state.Placementoftheapplicationonanode supportingtherequirementsexpressedintheartifact,C-stateconfiguration,istheresponsibilityoftheO-Cloud.

### 5.3.3 Potential Requirements

#### 5.3.3.1 General
ThedeploymentartifactsfortheNFDeploymentshouldallowtheapplicationvendorstospecifytheirC-state requirementsinastandardizedway.

#### 5.3.3.2 MeasurementandConfigurationdata
Nomeasurementdatarequired.

#### 5.3.3.3 Security
> NOTE: Potentialrequirementsforsecurityhavenotbeenspecifiedinthepresentdocument.

#### 5.3.3.4 O-CloudSupport
TheO-Cloudshouldunderstandthe C-state(s)requestedfortheNFDeploymentsandsupporttheC-stateconfiguration intheO-Cloud.

#### 5.3.3.5 HighLevelRequirements forotherORANWGs
> NOTE: PotentialrequirementsforotherO-RANWGshavenotbeenspecifiedinthepresentdocument.

## 5.4 Use Case 4: O-Cloud Node Cluster Mode Selection

### 5.4.1 Overview
ThisusecasedescribestheprocessingofarequesttoselectaspecificMode,asdefinedinsection4.2.2.3onanO- CloudNodeCluster,fromtheFOCOMtowardstheIMSovertheO2imsinterface.Theusecaseaimstoselectaspecific Mode,forinstance,EcoMode,toachieveenergysavingsonanO-CloudNodeCluster.Beforethisusecaseisstarted,it isexpectedthattheSMOhasconcludedthataspecificModeneedstobeactivatedonanO-CloudNodeCluster.When theusecaseisconcluded,anymodifiedO-Cloud(exposed)resourcesareupdatedbytheIMS. ThetargetedModeisexpressedintheClusterTemplate,definingthecapabilitiesandcapacitiesattheSMOlevel, whereastheconfigurationsorpoliciesaredefinedintheClusterTemplateartifactsattheO-Cloudlevel.AnO-Cloud NodeClustersupportsdifferentmodes,andeachindividualmodehasruntimesettings.Furthermore,aModesetting aimstooperatetheO-CloudNodeClusterwithaspecificsetofconfigurationsorpolicies. Table5.4-1exemplifiesthethreetypesofModesthatcanachievevaryinglevelofenergysavingsinanO-CloudNode Cluster.Theexamplesareonlyprovidedforillustrativepurposesinthecontextofthepresentusecase. ©2025bytheO-RANALLIANCEe.V.Youruseissubjecttothecopyrightstatementonthecoverpageofthisspecification. 21 Table5.4-1:ExamplesofModesandtheirDescription Modes Description EcoMode HighEnergySavingsfortheO-Cloudresources BalancedMode StrikeabalancebetweenEnergysavingsandPerformanceduringvarying levelsofsystemutilization PerformanceMode HighperformanceandresourceavailabilityinO-Cloudwithoutenergy savings

### 5.4.2 Description and UMLDiagrams
Table5.4-2:O-CloudNodeClusterModeselectionSequenceDescription UseCaseStage Evolution/Specification Goal ToachieveenergysavingsbyselectingaspecificModeonanO-CloudNodeCluster SMO:FOCOM ActorsandRoles O-Cloud:IMS ‐ SMOandO-Cloudareavailableandhaveconnectivity. Pre-conditions ‐ TheClusterTemplatefortheO-CloudNodeClusterisavailable,anditdefines clusteravailable/supportedModes. ‐ ThereisalwaysasinglemodeactivatedonanO-CloudNodeCluster. ‐ TheSMOhasconcludedwhichspecificModethatneedstobeactivatedonan O-CloudNodeCluster,asknown,e.g.,basedontheexpectedenergysavingsor Assumptions performancegains,andthecompatibilitywiththealreadydeployedNF Deployments(ifany). ‐ ThecreationandupdatesoftheO-CloudNodeCluster(e.g.,K8sCluster)are performedaccordingtotheClusterTemplate. AspecificModeneedstobeactivatedonanO-CloudNodeClustertoachieveenergy Beginswhen savings. ARequesttoactivateaparticularMode,e.g.“Eco”referencedinClusterTemplateon Step1(M) O-CloudNodeCluster(ClusterID)issentfromFOCOMtoIMS. IMSperformsModeactivationonO-CloudNodeClusterasperClusterTemplate Step2(M) artifactdefinedinO-Cloud. SUCCESS:IMSsendsasuccessresponsetoFOCOMfortheactivationofa Step3(ALT) particularModeontheO-CloudNodeCluster Step4(ALT) EXCEPTION:O-CloudNodeClusterisunavailable EXCEPTION:InsufficientO-CloudResourcestoactivateaparticularModeontheO- Step5(ALT) CloudNodeCluster Step6(ALT) EXCEPTION:IMSencounteredanunexpectedconditionprocessingtherequest ThisusecaseendswhentheactivationrequestofModeissuccessful,oran Endswhen exceptionhasbeenencountered. ‐ CLUSTERUNAVAILABLE–TheO-CloudNodeClusterisUnavailableto activateaparticularMode ‐ INSUFFICIENTRESOURCES–TherearenosufficientO-CloudResourcesto Exceptions activateaparticularModeontheO-CloudNodeCluster ‐ UNEXPECTEDCONDITION–TheIMSmightnotbeabletoactivaterequested ModeonanO-CloudNodeClusterperhapsduetoasoftwarefault.Inthiscase, theunexpectedconditionexceptionisencountered. Uponsuccessfulactivation,theO-CloudNodeClusterisoperatinginthespecified Modewithitsmode-specificrun-timesettings. Post-conditions UponFailure,theO-CloudNodeClusterremainsinitspreviousoperationalstate withoutanychangestotheMode. Traceability [5.4.3.1],[5.4.3.2] ©2025bytheO-RANALLIANCEe.V.Youruseissubjecttothecopyrightstatementonthecoverpageofthisspecification. 22 Figure5.4-1:O-CloudNodeClusterModeselection

### 5.4.3 Potential Requirements

#### 5.4.3.1 General
ModeactivationrequestsofModesaremadeoverO2imsinterface.

#### 5.4.3.2 O-CloudSupport
1. TheO-CloudsupportsModeactivationrequestsfromSMO,andtheModeisactivatedbytheIMS. 2. TheClusterTemplateartifactswillincludetherealizationdefinitionoftheModes.

# 6 Power Consumption, Energy Consumption and Efficiency
Measurement and KPIs

## 6.1 Overview
Inthissection,measurementsandKPIsrelatedtopowerconsumption,energyconsumptionandenergyefficiencyare described.Power,measuredinwatt(W),referstotherateofusingenergyatanygivenmoment,whileenergy,measured inwatt-hours(Wh),kilowatt-hours(kWh)orjoules(J),referstothetotalamountofenergyconsumedoveraperiodof time.Energyefficiency,measuredincapacity/joule(J),istherelationshipbetweentheusefuloutputandenergy consumption.Energyefficiencycanbeachievedbyreducingthepowerconsumptiontodeliverthesameoutputorby improvingoutputdeliveredforthesameenergyconsumption.

## 6.2 Power, energy consumption metrics of Infrastructure
©2025bytheO-RANALLIANCEe.V.Youruseissubjecttothecopyrightstatementonthecoverpageofthisspecification. 23

### 6.2.1 Overview
MeasuringtheenergyconsumptionofO-CloudResourcescouldpotentiallyhelpinunderstandingtheimpactof potentialenergysavingoptimisationsontheO-Cloudresources.Suchmeasurementsalsohelpdeterminingwhetherthe energyefficiencypoliciesarehavingadesiredeffect,andhelpstosetnewpoliciesorupdateexistingpolicies. NOTE1: O-CloudResourcescanbephysicalorlogicalinnature.Thelistedmeasurementsapplytobothtypes,but logicalresourcesrequiresomelevelofcomputationandestimation.Forexample,VM-basedO-Cloud Nodesmightneedcomputation,whilephysicalO-CloudResourcesmightgatherthemeasurementsfrom physicalsensors. NOTE2: Thepotentialmappingbetweentheexistingenergysavingsusecases(inClause5)andpower/energy consumptionmetricsofinfrastructureisnotspecifiedinthepresentdocumentversion.

### 6.2.2 Measurement and KPI Definition

#### 6.2.2.1 O-CloudResourcePowerConsumption
Table6.2-1liststhepowerconsumptionmeasurementsattheO-CloudResourcelevel.Themetricscanbereportedper O-CloudResourceataconfigurableinterval,typicallymeasuredinminutes. Table6.2-1:O-CloudResourceInfrastructurePowerConsumptionMetrics MeasurementData Name Description Unit PowerCapacity ThetotalamountofpowerthatcanbeallocatedtotheO-CloudResource W (Instantaneous), PowerConsumed TheactualpowertheO-CloudResourceconsumes(Instantaneous) W AveragePowerConsumed TheaveragepowerconsumedbytheO-CloudResourceoverameasurement W window. MaxPowerConsumed MaximumpowerconsumedbytheO-CloudResourceoverameasurement W window. MinPowerConsumed MinimumpowerconsumedbytheO-CloudResourceoverameasurement W window. Themeasurementsintable6.2-1mayapplytorelevantO-CloudResourcesthatconsumespoweranddefinedasa resourcebytheO-CloudOperator. PleaserefertothedefinitionsandattributesoftheO-CloudResourceasspecifiedin theO2GA&P[6]andO-CloudInfrastructureInventory[7]respectively. Aspersection3.9.8ofO2GA&P[9],thePMdictionaryisprovidedbytheO-CloudResourcetypevendor,anditis expectedthatpowerandenergyconsumptionmetricsandKPIscanbemadepartofsuchaPMdictionary.
> NOTE:AsperSection3.9.10ofO2GA&P[9],theO-CloudResourcemightdirectlyprovidethemaximum,
minimum,andaveragevalues,orthePMjobmightperformasemantictransformationontheprimitiveor rawmeasurementsavailableinthePMdictionary. RelevantinformationonthemeasurementsfortheO-CloudResources,whicharephysical,isavailableintheDMTF Redfishspecifications[8][9]. EnergyconsumptionperO-CloudResourcecanbederivedfromtheaveragepowerconsumptionmetric,i.e., AveragePowerConsumed,overaperiodoftime.Theentityresponsibleforenergyconsumptionmeasurementisoutof scopeofthepresentdocument.

#### 6.2.2.2 O-CloudNode Energy Consumption
Table6.2-2liststheenergyconsumptionmeasurementsattheO-Cloudnoderesourcelevel.Themetricscanbereported pernodeataconfigurableinterval,typicallymeasuredinminutes. ©2025bytheO-RANALLIANCEe.V.Youruseissubjecttothecopyrightstatementonthecoverpageofthisspecification. 24 Table6.2-2:O-CloudNodeResourceEnergyConsumption MeasurementData Name Description Unit EC RepresentsthetotalenergyconsumptionofallCPUcoresonthenode. J node,core EC Representsthetotalenergyconsumptionofuncorecomponents(e.g.,caches, J node,uncore memorycontrollers)onthenode. EC RepresentsthetotalenergyconsumptionofDRAMonthenode. J node,dram EC RepresentsthetotalenergyconsumptionoftheCPUpackageonthenode. J node,package EC Representsthetotalenergyconsumptionofotherhostcomponents(e.g.,network J node,other interfaces,storagedevices)onthenode. EC Representsthetotalenergyconsumptionofhardwareacceleratorsonthenode. J node,acc EC Representstheoverallenergyconsumptionoftheentirehost. J node,platform
> NOTE:Notallmeasurementdatalistedaboveismandatorytobereported.Thescopeofthisdocumentdoesn’t
addressexposingtheabovemetricsandKPIsovertheO2interfaceorcollectingthemforinternalpurposes bytheO-Cloud.Thefuturegranularityofthemetricsselectedforstandardizationwilltakeintoaccountthe impactonperformance.Theexactmetric(s)tobeusedforpowermanagementis/aredeterminedbyvarious factorswhichinclude:  ThenatureoftheworkloadoftheNFdeploymenttobemanagedonthenode.Forexample,ifthe workloadisCPUbound,ECnode,coremaybeusedtoassess itsenergyconsumption.Iftheworkloadis memoryboundorhardwareacceleratorbound,ECnode,dramorECnode,accmaybebeusedinstead.  TheavailabilityofcountersfromthehardwareandO-Cloudvendors.  Thepowermeasurementorestimationtoolused.

## 6.3 Power, Energy Consumption Metrics of Containers

### 6.3.1 Overview
AssessingcontainerlevelpowerandenergyconsumptioniscrucialfordeterminingthepeakperformanceoftheNF deployedontheO-Cloud,consideringtheenergyusageduringoperation.Theseevaluationsarealsoinstrumentalin measuringtheefficacyofenergyefficiencystrategies,facilitatingmodificationstocurrentpolicies,ortheintroduction ofnewones,basedontheresultsobserved.FortheexecutionofthisfunctionwithKubernetes,wesuggestthe incorporationofenergy-relatedsystemstatisticstobeexportedasmetrics.

### 6.3.2 Measurement and KPI Definition

#### 6.3.2.1 ContainerEnergy Consumption
Table6.3-1liststheKPIsrelatedtoestimatedcontainerlevelenergyconsumption. Table6.3-1:ContainerEnergyConsumption MeasurementData Name Description Unit EC container,total Representsthetotalenergyconsumptionacrosshardware componentswithinaspecified J container. EC container,core Tracksthetotalenergyusedbyacontainer'sCPUcores,itcanbemeasuredorestimated. J EC container,dram IndicatesthecumulativeenergydrawofacontainerinDRAM,providinginsightintoits J memory-relatedenergyfootprint. EC container,uncore Providestheaccumulatedenergyconsumptionofspecificuncoreelementsincludingthelast- J levelcache,integratedhardwareaccelerator(s),andmemorycontroller. ©2025bytheO-RANALLIANCEe.V.Youruseissubjecttothecopyrightstatementonthecoverpageofthisspecification. 25 EC container,package ProvidesacumulativemeasurementoftheenergyconsumedbytheentireCPUsocket, J encompassingallcoresanduncorecomponentsincludingthelast-levelcache,integrated hardwareaccelerator,andmemorycontroller.ItisgenerallyexpectedthatPackageEnergyis equivalenttothesumofCPUcoresandhardwareacceleratorenergycounters. EC container,other Representsenergyconsumptionfornon-CPUandnon-DRAMcomponents.Tocalculate J individualcomponentusage,thistotalistypicallyreducedbymeasuredCPUandDRAM power. EC container,acc Measuresthetotalhardwareacceleratorpowerconsumptionallocatedtoaparticular J container.
> NOTE:TheKPIslistedaboveareexpectedtoundergofurtheranalysisandpossiblynotallofthemwillbecome
mandatorytobereported.Thescopeofthisdocumentdoesn’taddressexposingtheabovemetricsandKPIs overtheO2interfaceorcollectingthemforinternalpurposesbytheO-Cloud.Thefuturegranularityofthe metricsselectedforstandardizationwilltakeintoaccounttheimpactonperformance.TheexactKPIstobe usedforpowermanagementaredeterminedbyvariousfactorswhichinclude:  Thenatureofthecontainerworkloadtobemonitored.Forexample,iftheworkloadisCPUbound, ECcontainer,coremaybeusedtoassessitsenergyconsumption.Iftheworkloadismemoryboundor hardwareacceleratorbound,ECcontainer,dramorECcontainer,accmaybebeusedinstead.  TheavailabilityofthecountersfromthehardwareandO-Cloudvendors.  Thepowermeasurementorestimationtoolused.

#### 6.3.2.2 Containerresourceutilization
Table6.3-2liststhemeasurementdatarelatedtocontainerlevelresourceutilization. Table6.3-2:ContainerResourceUtilization MeasurementData Name Description Unit CPUTime Thismetriccapturesthecontainer'stotalCPUusage,measuredthroughCPUtime,thatis us reportedbythetracingtechnology.Itisusedasaninputforpowerestimationmodels. Fordetailsonapowermodelingexample,pleaserefertoAnnexA,SectionA.1

## 6.4 Power, energy consumption metrics of NF deployment and Cloudified NF

### 6.4.1 Overview
MeasuringthepowerandenergyconsumptionofO-CloudResourcesassociatedwithanNFDeploymentand CloudifiedNFcouldhelpmonitorandanalyzeenergyconsumptionperNFDeploymentandCloudifiedNFonanO- Cloud.Suchmeasurementsalsohelpdeterminingwhethertheenergyefficiencypoliciesarehavingadesiredeffect,and helpstosetnewpoliciesorupdateexistingpolicies.
> NOTE: Thepotentialmappingbetweentheexistingenergysavingsusecases(inClause5)andpower/energy
consumptionmetricsofNFdeployment/CloudifiedNFisnotspecifiedinthecurrentO-CloudEnergy SavingsTRdocument.

### 6.4.2 Measurement and KPI Definition

#### 6.4.2.1 NFDeployment powerandenergy consumption
AsbeenstudiedinETSIGRNFV-EVE021[10],clause7.2.20,thepower/energyconsumptionofNFDeploymentcan beeitherestimatedbasedontherelativeresourceusageofthemonitoredobjectwithrespecttoothermonitoredobjects placedonthesamecomputeresourceorobtainedthrough“real”measurementbyanentity(e.g.,anOStool)whichcan measurethepowerconsumptionofthemonitoredobject. ©2025bytheO-RANALLIANCEe.V.Youruseissubjecttothecopyrightstatementonthecoverpageofthisspecification. 26 ForestimatedNFDeploymentenergyconsumption,clause6.7.3.1.4of3GPPTS28.554[11]specifiesthe"estimated virtualcomputeresourceinstanceenergyconsumptionbasedonmeanvCPUusage".Inthiscase,theenergy consumptionofavirtualcomputeresourceinstanceisestimatedasaproportionoftheenergyconsumptionoftheO- CloudNodeonwhichtheresourceinstanceruns.TheproportionisobtainedbydividingthevCPUmeanusageofthe virtualcomputeresourceinstancebythesumofthevCPUmeanusageofallvirtualcomputeresourceinstancesrunning onthesameO-CloudNode.Table6.4-1andTable6.4-2listtheKPIsrelatedtoestimatedNFDeploymentpowerand energyconsumptions. Table6.4-1:EstimatedNFDeploymentPowerConsumption KPI Name Description Unit

# P AKPIthatgivesanestimationofthepowerconsumptionofaNFdeploymentrunningintheO- W
NF Cloud.ThisKPIisderivedfromthepowerconsumptionofO-CloudResourcesallocatedtothat Deployment, NFDeploymentbasedonthemeanusageoftheresource(e.g.vCPUmeanusage). estimated Table6.4-2:EstimatedNFDeploymentEnergyConsumption KPI Name Description Unit EC AKPIthatgivesanestimationoftheenergyconsumptionofaNFdeploymentrunningintheO- J NF Cloud.ThisKPIisderivedfromtheenergyconsumptionofO-Cloudresourcesallocatedtothat Deployment, NFDeploymentbasedonthemeanusageoftheresource(e.g.vCPUmeanusage). estimated Asbeinganestimationabove,itsvaluemightnotbeaccurateenough.Therefore,otherformstomeasuringthe power/energyconsumptionofNFDeploymentisstillanopenissue.Anexamplesolutionforobtainingmoregranular andrefinedestimation-“real”measuredvalueofthemonitoredobjecthasbeenstudiedandintroducedinETSIGR NFV-EVE021[10].Theexactmechanismforcomputingthe“real”measuredpowerconsumptionofNFDeployment mightbelefttovendorspecificimplementationandleftoutsidethestandardizationscope.Thiscomputationcan leveragestandardizedmetricsregardingthe“real”measuredpowerconsumptionofindividualcomponentsconforming theNFDeployment. NFDeploymentlevelpowerandenergyconsumptionestimationrequireinventoryknowledgeoftheNFDeployment deployedontheO-CloudNodesandtheirresourcesusage(e.g.,CPUusage).

#### 6.4.2.2 CloudifiedNF powerandenergy consumption
Table6.4-3andTable6.4-4listtheKPIsrelatedtoestimatedCloudifiedNFpowerandenergyconsumption. Table6.4-3EstimatedCloudifiedNFPowerConsumption KPI Name Description Unit

# P AKPIthatgivesanestimationofthepowerconsumptionofaCloudifiedNF.ThisKPIis W
cloudifiedNF, obtainedbysumminguptheestimatedpowerconsumptionofitsconstituentNFdeployment(s). estimated Table6.4-4EstimatedCloudifiedNFEnergyConsumption KPI Name Description Unit EC AKPIthatgivesanestimationoftheenergyconsumptionofaCloudifiedNF.ThisKPIis J cloudifiedNF, obtainedbysumminguptheestimatedenergyconsumptionofitsconstituentNFdeployment(s). estimated

## 6.5 Energy efficiency of Cloudified NF
©2025bytheO-RANALLIANCEe.V.Youruseissubjecttothecopyrightstatementonthecoverpageofthisspecification. 27

### 6.5.1 Overview
AssessingenergyefficiencyKPIofaCloudifiedNF,iscrucialforunderstandingwhethertheCloudifiedNFdeployed ontheO-Cloudisperformingoptimallyconsideringtheenergyconsumedforitsoperation.Suchmeasurementsalso helpdeterminingwhethertheenergyefficiencypoliciesarehavingadesiredeffectandhelpstosetnewpoliciesor updateexistingpolicies.
> NOTE: Thepotentialmappingbetweentheexistingenergysavingsusecases(inClause5)andtheenergy
efficiencyofCloudifiedNFisnotspecifiedinthepresentdocumentversion.

### 6.5.2 Measurement and KPI Definition
TheapproachforassessingenergyefficiencyofCloudifiedNFstronglydependsonthefunctionalityandpurposeofthe CloudifiedNF.Ingeneral,theenergyefficiencyofaCloudifiedNFcanbedeterminedbyassessingitsdelivered performanceversusitsenergyconsumptionoveradefinedtimeintervalfollowingformula: 푃푒푟푓퐶푙표푢푑푖푓푖푒푑푁퐹 퐸퐸푐푙표푢푑푖푓푖푒푑푁퐹 = Wherein correspondstotheserviceperform퐸a퐶n퐶c푙e표푢o푑f푖t푓h푖e푒푑C푁lo퐹udifiedNFand isthe energyconsumptionassociatedtotheCloudifiedNFoveradefinedtimeintervalasmeasuredorestimatedaccordingto 푃푒푟푓퐶푙표푢푑푖푓푖푒푑푁퐹 퐸퐶CloudifiedNF clause6.4. Thedeliveredperformancecanbebasedondifferenttypesofmeasuresthatarelistedbelowdependingontheexact servicetheCloudifiedNFprovides. Table6.5-1TypesofEnergyEfficiencyMeasures MeasurementApproach Description Unit EnergyefficiencyassessmentbasedonPDCP 3GPPTS28.554[11],clause6.7.1andETSIES bit/J SDUdatavolume 203228[12],clause5.3 Energyefficiencyassessmentbasedoncoverage ETSIES203228[12],clause5.3 m²/J Energyefficiencyassessmentbasedonlatency 3GPPTS28.554[11],clause6.7.2.3.2andETSI (0.1ms*J)-1 (usedforURLLCslice) ES203228[7],clause5.3 Energyefficiencyassessmentbasedonboth 3GPPTS28.554[11],clause6.7.2.2and6.7.2.2a bit/(0.1ms*J) latencyanddatavolume (usedforURLLCslice) Energyefficiencyofregisteredsubscribers 3GPPTS28.554[11],clause6.7.2.4.1 user/J (usedforMIoTslice) EnergyefficiencyofnumberofactiveUEs 3GPPTS28.554[11],clause6.7.2.4.2 user/J (usedforMIoTslice)
> NOTE: FurtherinformationonhowtheseKPIsarecalculatedareavailableintherelevant3GPPandETSI
specifications.Selectionofaparticularwayofmeasuringtheenergyefficiencydependsonthe requirements,typeofdeploymentsanduse-cases.ItisexpectedthattheSMOcancomputetheEnergy consumptionandefficiencyofaCloudifiedNFbasedonmeasurementsfromtheO-Cloud.Energy efficiencycalculationsmayinvolvecollaborationwithotherworkinggroups,suchasWG10. InETSIES203228[12],thetimedurationoftheenergyefficiencymeasurementisweekly,monthly,oryearly.

# 7 Void
©2025bytheO-RANALLIANCEe.V.Youruseissubjecttothecopyrightstatementonthecoverpageofthisspecification. 28

# 8 Conclusions
TheobjectiveoftheTechnicalReportwastobetterunderstandhowtoreducepowerconsumptionofO-Cloudthrough optimizedresourcemanagement,establishingastandardizedframeworkforenergyefficiencymeasurement,evaluation, andmonitoring,anddevelopingusecasestodemonstratepower-savingtechniques.Afterthisinitialanalysisthis TechnicalReportconcludesthatenergymanagementtechniquesmightbeusedtoenhanceO-Cloudenergyefficiency. InthisTechnicalReportthefollowingpotentialusecasesforEnergySavingswereoutlinedandstudied:  UseCase1:O-CloudNodeShutdowninIdleMode  UseCase2:CPUcorefrequencyandpinningconfigurationchangebySMO  UseCase3:C-stateusageforNFDeployment  UseCase4:O-CloudNodeClusterModeSelection TheusecasesaboverequirefurtheranalysistounderstandwhethertheycouldbeusedtorealizeO-Cloudenergy savings.AdetailedimpactanalysisoftheseusecasesontheoverallO-RANarchitecturemayalsobeneededbutis beyondthescopeofthepresentdocument. ThereportidentifiespotentialrelevantmetricsandKPIsfortheoperationofO-CloudEnergySavings.Variousmetrics andKPIswereconsidered,includingpowerandenergyconsumptionoftheinfrastructure,containers,NFDeployments, andCloudifiedNFs,aswellastheenergyefficiencyofCloudifiedNFs.TheintroducedmetricsandKeyperformance indicatorsinthisreportrequirefurtheranalysistounderstandwhethertheycouldbeusedtorealizeenergysavings.


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG6.TS.AAL-HI_PHY-R004-v08.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG6.TS.AAL-HI_PHY-R004-v08.00 Technical Specification"
---


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG6.TS.O-CLOUD-INTF-CONF-R004-v04.03.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG6.TS.O-CLOUD-INTF-CONF-R004-v04.03 Technical Specification O-Cloud Interface Conformance Test Specification"
---

### 7.3.3 SMO succeeds to subscribe for O2ims inventory changes notification and succeeds to receive
List of Figures List of tables Foreword This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by O-RAN Alliance. Modal verbs terminology In the present document "shall", "shall not", "should", "should not", "may", "need not", "will", "will not", "can" and "cannot" are to be interpreted as described in clause 3.2 of the O-RAN Drafting Rules (Verbal forms for the expression of provisions). "must" and "must not" are NOT allowed in O-RAN deliverables except when used in direct citation. Introduction This document specifies the O-Cloud interface test specification to guide O-Cloud products conforming to the O- RAN specifications, including the O-Cloud Notification API, AAL API and O2 interface.

## 1.1 Test Requirement Status
The purpose of section is to clarify which of the test cases provided in this specification shall be passed to verify a particular O-Cloud interfaces or API to comply with the O-Cloud specification. The following tables list each test in this conformance specification and requirement of the test as MANDATORY or CONDITIONAL MANDATORY. MANDATORY means the function/feature/capability under test shall be supported in relevant O-Cloud interface specification. OPTIONAL means the function/feature/capability under test may or may not be supported in relevant O-Cloud interface specification. The status of test if conditional (mandatory, optional), if the support of function/feature/capability under test depends on other items defined in relevant O-Cloud interface specification. Test Test Requirement Test Description Number Create a subscription for event notifications

### 5.3.1 CONDITIONAL MANDATORY

### 5.3.2 CONDITIONAL MANDATORY Query the list of subscriptions for event notifications

### 5.3.3 CONDITIONAL MANDATORY Query the detail of a subscription

### 5.3.4 CONDITIONAL MANDATORY Delete a subscription of event notifications

### 5.3.5 CONDITIONAL MANDATORY Send event notification and sanity check

### 5.3.6 CONDITIONAL MANDATORY Pull event information
Regarding the O-Cloud Notification API test scenarios, tests 5.3.1, 5.3.2, 5.3.3, 5.3.4 and 5.3.5 are for push mode notification only, while test 5.3.6 is for pull mode. Either mode shall be tested to verify an implementation of the O-Cloud Notification API complies with the O-Cloud specification. Test Test Requirement Test Description Number

### 7.3.1 MANDATORY Available Notification
Query inventory with correct token

### 7.3.2 MANDATORY
(positive case) Subscribe and receive O2ims inventory changes notification

### 7.3.3 MANDATORY
(positive case) Create, query alarmSubscription and receive alarm

### 7.3.4 MANDATORY notification
(positive case)

### 7.3.5 MANDATORY Deliver O-Cloud Available notification(general aspects)
Requests with unsupported method to O2ims APIs

### 7.3.6 MANDATORY
(negative case)

### 7.3.7 MANDATORY Requests with incorrect data to O2ims APIs
(negative case)

### 7.3.8 MANDATORY Requests with incorrect token to O2ims APIs
(negative case)

### 7.3.9 MANDATORY Requests with incorrect APIs to O2ims APIs
(negative case)

### 7.3.10 MANDATORY Get O2dms (in Kubernetes native API Profile) access
information (positive case)

### 7.3.11 MANDATORY Requests with junk/unsupported data to O2ims APIs
(negative case)

### 7.3.12 MANDATORY Requests with wrong data to O2ims APIs
(negative case) Test Test Requirement Test Description Number

#### 7.4.2.3 MANDATORY Service operations (lifecycle, fault, performance)

#### 7.4.2.4 MANDATORY O2dms_DeploymentLifecycle Service API

#### 7.4.2.5 MANDATORY O2dms_Fault Service API

#### 7.4.2.6 MANDATORY Performance Service API
> NOTE: The present document version does not list the test scenarios and requirements regarding the O-Cloud
O2dms Kubernetes profile, as corresponding test descriptions are not available in from the referenced documentation.

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1]. O-Cloud This refers to a collection of O-Cloud Resource Pools at one or more location and the software to manage Nodes and Deployments hosted on them. An O-Cloud will include functionality to support both Deployment-plane and Management services. The O-Cloud provides a single logical reference point for all O-Cloud Resource Pools within the O-Cloud boundary. O-DU O-RAN Distributed Unit–a logical node hosting RLC/MAC/High-PHY layers based on a lower layer functional split. O-RU O-RAN Radio Unit–a logical node hosting Low-PHY layer and RF processing based on a lower layer functional split. This is similar to 3GPP’s “TRP” or “RRH”, but more specific in including the Low-PHY layer (FFT/iFFT, PRACH extraction).

## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of this document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [i.1]. 3GPP Third Generation Partnership Project AAL Acceleration Abstraction Layer API Application Programming Interface CNF Cloud-Native Network Function CPU Central Processing Unit EC Event Producer EP Event Consumer FFT Fast Fourier Transform HW Hardware IMS Infrastructure Management Services IRQ Interrupt ReQuest NF Network Function O-Cloud O-RAN Cloud Platform O-CU O-RAN Centralized Unit O-DU O-RAN Distributed Unit O-RU O-RAN Radio Unit OS Operating System RAN Radio Access Network RIC RAN Intelligent Controller SMO Service Management and Orchestration SR-IOV Single Root Input/ Output Virtualization SUT System Under Test TS Technical Specification vCPU Virtual CPU VM Virtual Machine VNF Virtualized Network Function WG Working Group

# 4 Testing methodology

## 4.1 System under test
SUT refers to 3GPP TR [i.2] and O-RAN.WG1.OAD [9]. The main architecture components and interfaces/APIs for the O-Cloud platform software can be found in Figure 4.1-1. For the Cloud platform, different technologies may be used by cloud vendors, [i.2] such as:
- VMs only,
- Containers only,
- Containers in VMs,
- both VMs and Containers, OR
- other new technologies
so, the O-Cloud should be tested exactly based on the technology used. Cases applied to each technology are listed in the Annex A. SUT is identified by an implementation of the function under test producing or consuming the API Under Test (AUT) e.g. in the case of the O2DMS interface the function under test is O-Cloud implementation. The function is tested in isolation with respect to SMO, O-RAN Network Functions and O-Cloud, to guarantee that the outcomes of the conformance tests are not result of interoperability issues with other components.

## 4.2 Test method

### 4.2.1 Testing procedure
The SUT and the test tool are set up and connected to the device in strict accordance with the preset conditions of each test case in the specification, and the test steps in the test case are performed step by step. Tester should record in detail the important test information during and after the test and compare and analyze with the expected results. Each test case is independent of each other.

### 4.2.2 Statistics and analysis of key indicators
The test is performed based on the preset conditions and procedure in the test case. The expected test result is used as the standard to determine whether the test succeeds. If the test result is consistent with the expected result, the test is regarded as passing. Tester may record test result, such as throughput, latency, and device volume.

# 5 O-Cloud Notification API Test

## 5.1 General
O-Cloud provides a Notification Framework; it acts as the event producer and exposes APIs to event consumers. The APIs enable the consumers to subscribe event notifications, delete subscriptions, get a list of subscriptions and detail of a subscription, notification to event consumers by pull or push mode. Event consumers can be applications (e.g. O-DU). Refer to O-RAN.WG6.O-Cloud Notification API [2], this section describes the test cases for O-Cloud Notification APIs.

## 5.2 Test Configuration

### 5.2.1 System Under Test requirements
The SUT for the O-Cloud Notification API is the O-Cloud, which provides an O-Cloud notification event producer(EP). This allows Event consumers (EC, such as O-DU or CNF) to subscribe event notifications, delete subscriptions, get a list of subscriptions or detail of a subscription, and receive events/status from cloud infrastructures. Notification to event consumers by pull or push mode. The test functions are the tools which simulate the workloads (applications running in the cloud) or other entities out of the cloud interested in the events.

### 5.2.2 Test Tools and Simulators capabilities
A summary of the recommended testing tools and simulators for functional testing is shown as following. Postman: Postman is an interface testing tool. Postman is equivalent to a client, which can simulate various HTTP requests initiated by users, send the request data to the server, and obtain the corresponding response results, so as to verify whether the result data in the response matches the expected value. It is mainly used to simulate various HTTP requests (e.g. Get/POST/delete/put). The difference between Postman and browsers is that some browsers can't output Json format, while Postman is more intuitive about the results returned by the interface. In the following test, Postman act as the event consumer, and it can also be configured to received notification from the event producer. Curl: Curl is a command-line tool for transferring data specified with URL syntax. It can be used as the event consumer. HTTPie: HTTPie is a command-line HTTP client with an intuitive interface, support for JSON, syntax highlighting, download functionality (like wGET), plugin support, and more. HTTPie consists of a simple HTTP command that is easy to debug and interact with HTTP servers, RESTful apis, and Web Services. It can be used as the event consumer.

## 5.3 Test cases

### 5.3.1 Create a subscription resource

#### 5.3.1.1 Test Purpose
The purpose of this test case is to verify the capability to create a subscription for event notifications. This test case is conditional, if the SUT (O-Cloud) claims to support O-Cloud Notification API, it shall support at least pull mode notification or push mode; for push mode, this case applies.

#### 5.3.1.2 Test Entrance Criteria
1) The SUT supports the O-Cloud Event Notification Create subscription request. 2) The Test Simulator has the functionality to initiate Create subscription request.

#### 5.3.1.3 Initial conditions
1) The simulator (acting as a workload) has started. 2) The SUT (O-Cloud) has the Notification service ready and available to receive subscription request from the Test Simulator.

#### 5.3.1.4 Procedure
Step 1. Send an HTTP2 POST request from Test Simulator to SUT with the correct URI format as specified in O- RAN.WG6.O-Cloud Notification API [2] clause 4.1.2 containing the JSON format Subscriptioninfo as specified in notification request, endpointUri and ResourceAddress. Step 2. At the Test Simulator the received HTTP2 response is recorded.

#### 5.3.1.5 Expected Results
The test is considered passed if 1) The return code is “201 OK”, with Response message body content that contains a Subscriptioninfo, when the subscription request is correct and processed by the EP. 2) The return code is “400 Bad request”, without message body, when the subscription request is not correct. 3) The return code is “404 Not found”, without message body, when the subscription resource is not available. 4) The return code is “409 Conflict”, without message body, when the subscription resource already exists.

### 5.3.2 Get a list of subscription resources

#### 5.3.2.1 Test Purpose
The purpose of this test case is to verify the capability to query the list of subscriptions for event notifications from event consumers. This test case is conditional: if the SUT (O-Cloud) claims to support O-Cloud Notification API, it shall support at least pull mode notification or push mode; for push mode, this case applies.

#### 5.3.2.2 Test Entrance Criteria
1) The SUT supports the O-Cloud Event Notification subscription resources create and query requests. 2) The Test Simulator has the functionality to initiate Query subscription resources request.

#### 5.3.2.3 Initial conditions
1) The simulator (acting as a workload has started. 2) The SUT (O-Cloud) has the Notification service ready and available to receive subscription resources query request from the Test Simulator.

#### 5.3.2.4 Procedure
Step 1. Send an HTTP2 GET request from Test Simulator to SUT with the correct URI format as specified in O- RAN.WG6.O-Cloud Notification API [2] clause 4.1.2. Step 2. At the Test Simulator the received HTTP2 response is recorded.

#### 5.3.2.5 Expected Results
The test is considered passed if 1) The return code is “200 OK”, with Response message body content containing an array of Subscriptioninfo.

### 5.3.3 Get Detail of individual subscription resource

#### 5.3.3.1 Test Purpose
The purpose of this test case is to verify the capability to query the detail of a subscription from event consumers. This test case is conditional: if the SUT (O-Cloud) claims to support O-Cloud Notification API, it shall support at least pull mode notification or push mode; for push mode, this case applies.

#### 5.3.3.2 Test Entrance Criteria
1) The SUT supports the O-Cloud Event Notification subscription resources create (Chapter 7.3) and query request, and supports query to an individual subscription resource. 2) The Test Simulator has the functionality to initiate subscription query request.

#### 5.3.3.3 Initial conditions
1) The simulator (acting as a workload) has started. 2) The SUT (O-Cloud) has the Notification service ready and available to receive query request from the Test Simulator.

#### 5.3.3.4 Procedure
Step 1. Send an HTTP2 GET request from Test Simulator to SUT with the correct URI format as specified in O- RAN.WG6.O-Cloud Notification API [2] clause 4.1.3. Step 2. At the Test Simulator the received HTTP2 response is recorded.

#### 5.3.3.5 Expected Results
The test is considered passed if 1) The return code is “200 OK”, with Response message body content containing a Subscriptioninfo. 2) The return code is “404 Not found”, without message body, when the subscription resource is not available (not created).

### 5.3.4 Delete individual subscription resources

#### 5.3.4.1 Test Purpose
The purpose of this test case is to verify the capability to delete a subscription of event notifications. This test case is conditional: if the SUT (O-Cloud) claims to support O-Cloud Notification API, it shall support at least pull mode notification or push mode; for push mode, this case applies.

#### 5.3.4.2 Test Entrance Criteria
1) The SUT supports the O-Cloud Event Notification resources create (Chapter 7.3) and query request, and supports delete an individual subscription resource request. 2) The Test Simulator has the functionality to initiate delete a subscription resource.

#### 5.3.4.3 Initial conditions
1) The simulator (acting as a workload) has started. 2) The SUT (O-Cloud) has the Notification service ready and available to receive delete request from the Test Simulator.

#### 5.3.4.4 Procedure
Step 1. Send an HTTP2 DELETE request from Test Simulator to SUT with the correct URI format as specified in Step 2. At the Test Simulator the received HTTP2 response is recorded.

#### 5.3.4.5 Expected Results
The test is considered passed if 1) The return code is “204 DELETE”.

### 5.3.5 Event notification and Notification sanity check

#### 5.3.5.1 Test Purpose
The purpose of this test case is to verify the capability of event notification to an event consumer. This test case is conditional. If the SUT (O-Cloud) claims to support O-Cloud Notification API, it shall support at least pull mode notification or push mode; for push mode, this case applies.

#### 5.3.5.2 Test Entrance Criteria
1) The SUT supports the O-Cloud Event Notification subscription and query (Chapter 7.3 and 7.4). 2) The Test Simulator has the functionality to receive the event notification.

#### 5.3.5.3 Initial conditions
1) The simulator (acting as a workload) has started. 2) The SUT (O-Cloud) has the Notification service ready and has accepted subscription request from the Test Simulator. 3) The resources state change or event can be tracked by SUT(O-Cloud).

#### 5.3.5.4 Procedure
Step 1. Trigger a resource state change in the SUT, which will cause an HTTP2 POST request to be sent from SUT to the Test Simulator. Step 2. At the SUT the received HTTP2 response is recorded.

#### 5.3.5.5 Expected results
The test is considered passed if 1) The HTTP2 POST request follows the EC’s URI format as specified in O-RAN.WG6.O-Cloud Notification API [2] clause 5.1.1 containing the JSON format Event as specified in O-RAN.WG6.O-Cloud Notification API [2] clause 7.2 as the message body.

### 5.3.6 Event pull status notification

#### 5.3.6.1 Test Purpose
The purpose of this test case is to verify the capability of pulling of the event from an event consumer. This test case is conditional if the SUT (O-Cloud) claims to support O-Cloud Notification API. it shall support at least pull mode notification or push mode; for pull mode, this case applies.

#### 5.3.6.2 Test Entrance Criteria
1) The SUT supports the O-Cloud Event Notification subscription and pull request (Chapter 7.3). 2) The Test Simulator has the functionality to initiate pull request to the resource status.

#### 5.3.6.3 Initial conditions
1) The simulator (acting as a workload) has started. 2) The SUT (O-Cloud) has the Notification service ready and has accept the subscription request from the Test Simulator.

#### 5.3.6.4 Procedure
Step 1. Send an HTTP2 GET request from Test Simulator to SUT with the correct URI format as specified in O- RAN.WG6.O-Cloud Notification API [2] clause 6.1.1. Step 2. At the Test Simulator the received HTTP2 response is recorded.

#### 5.3.6.5 Expected results
The test is considered passed if 1) The return code is “200 OK”. 2) The return code is “404 Not Found”, when event notification resource is not available on this node.

# 6 AAL API Test
This is FFS.

# 7 O2 Interface Test

## 7.1 General
The O2 interface test validates that the O-Cloud exposes O2 interfaces which should be fully compliant to latest published O2 Interface Specifications.

## 7.2 Test Configuration

### 7.2.1 System Under Test requirements
The SUT for O2 interface test is an O-Cloud with O2 Services to expose O-RAN O2 interfaces toward SMO.

### 7.2.2 Test Tools capabilities
A summary of the tools for functional testing is shown below: Test Tool: The entity used to simulate SMO to issue O2 API request towards the O-Cloud, e.g., A set of test scripts implemented by Robot Framework which execute Test Cases specified in the O2 interface test section. Robot: Robot Framework is a generic test automation framework for acceptance testing and acceptance test-driven development. It is a keyword-driven testing framework that uses tabular test data syntax.

#### 7.2.2.1 O2 IMS Test Tools capabilities
Tool simulates SMO to expose API endpoints for O-Clouds to deliver Notifications from O-Cloud to SMO, e.g., An instance of mock server with provisions to accept API calls from O-Cloud upon notification delivery. As below example endpoints include: O-Cloud registration API Endpoint: ${SMO_ENDPOINT}/mock_smo/v1/O-cloud_observer O-Cloud Inventory Changes Notification API Endpoint: ${SMO_ENDPOINT}/mock_smo/v1/o2ims_inventory_observer O-Cloud Alarm Changes Notification API Endpoint: ${SMO_ENDPOINT}/mock_smo/v1/o2ims_alarm_observer

#### 7.2.2.2 O2 DMS Test Tools capabilities
For the test for O2 DMS ETSI NFV Profile [4], it is recommended to use Robot Framework as described in [8].

## 7.3 O2 IMS Test

### 7.3.1 O-Cloud succeeds to deliver O-Cloud Available Notification to SMO.

#### 7.3.1.1 Test Purpose
The purpose of this test case is to verify O-Cloud can deliver O-Cloud Available Notification to SMO successfully.

#### 7.3.1.2 Initial conditions
The Test Tool is running and exposing valid endpoint for O-Cloud to deliver O-Cloud Available notification.

#### 7.3.1.3 Procedure
Step 1. Bring up O-Cloud with O2 IMS service by provisioning valid API endpoint of Test Tool, for example: ${SMO_ENDPOINT}/mock_smo/v1/O-cloud_observer and globalO-cloudId assigned for this O-Cloud; Step 2. Check if Test Tool received valid O-Cloud Available Notification from O-Cloud via the SMO endpoint.

#### 7.3.1.4 Expected Results
The test is considered passed if Step1. O-Cloud with O2 Service finished deployment. Step2. The Test Tool O-Cloud registration Endpoint receives notification, for example: ${SMO_ENDPOINT}/mock_smo/v1/O-cloud_observer received O-Cloud Available Notification from O2 IMS services with content compliant to [7] section ‘3.6.5.1.1 O-Cloud Available Notification Description’.

### 7.3.2 SMO succeeds to query inventory with correct token

#### 7.3.2.1 Test Purpose
The purpose of this test case is to verify SMO succeeds to query O-Cloud O2ims inventory resources after O-Cloud succeeds in delivering O-Cloud Available notification to SMO.

#### 7.3.2.2 Initial conditions
1) The Test Tool received O-Cloud Available Notification from O-Cloud. 2) Test Tool is provided with ${O2ims-endpoint} by extracting it from O-Cloud Available Notification. 3) Test Tool is provided with valid ${O2ims-api-token} (by extracting it from O-Cloud Available Notification or some other way).

#### 7.3.2.3 Procedure
Step 1. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool queries O-Cloud detail via API: GET ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims- infrastructureInventory/v1. Step 2. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool queries resource type list without filter via API: GET ${O2ims- endpoint}/o2ims-infrastructureInventory/v1/resourceTypes. Step 3. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool queries resource type list with filter (e.g., filter by resource type with name: pserver) via API: ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims-infrastructureInventory/v1/resourceTypes?filter=(eq,name,pserver) Step 4. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool to query resource type list with selector (e.g., all_fields) via API: ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims-infrastructureInventory/v1/resourceTypes?all_fields Step 5. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool queries resource type detail with a valid ${resource_type_id} via API: ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims-infrastructureInventory/v1/resourceTypes/${resource_type_id} Step 6. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool queries Resource Pool list without filter via API: ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims-infrastructureInventory/v1/resourcePools Step 7. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool queries Resource Pool list with filter (e.g., filter by a valid ${resourcePoolId}) via API: ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims- infrastructureInventory/v1/resourcePools?filter=(eq,resourcePoolId,${resourcePoolId}) Step 8. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool queries Resource Pool list with selector via API: ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims-infrastructureInventory/v1/resourcePools?all_fields Step 9. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool queries Resource Pool detail via API: ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims-infrastructureInventory/v1/resourcePools/${resourcePoolId} Step 10. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool queries Resource list of a Resource Pool without filter via API: GET ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims-infrastructureInventory/v1/resourcePools/${resourcePoolId}/resources Step 11. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool queries Resource list of a Resource Pool with filter via API: GET ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims- infrastructureInventory/v1/resourcePools/${resourcePoolId}/resources?filter=(eq,resourceTypeId,${resourceTypeI d}) Step 12. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool to query Resource list of a Resource Pool with selector via API: GET ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims-infrastructureInventory/v1/resourcePools/${resourcePoolId}/resources?all_fields Step 13. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool queries Resource detail via API: GET ${O2ims- endpoint}/o2ims-infrastructureInventory/v1/resourcePools/${resourcePoolId}/resources/${resourceId}

#### 7.3.2.4 Expected Results
The test is considered passed if 1) Step 1 API response status code should be 200, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.2.6.2.6 Type: CloudInfo’. 2) Step 2 API response status code should be 200, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.2.6.2.2 Type: ResourceTypeInfo’. 3) Step 3 API response status code should be 200, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.2.6.2.2 Type: ResourceTypeInfo’. 4) Step 4 API response status code should be 200, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.2.6.2.2 Type: ResourceTypeInfo’. 5) Step 5 API response status code should be 200, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.2.6.2.2 Type: ResourceTypeInfo’. 6) Step 6 API response status code should be 200, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.2.6.2.3 Type: ResourcePoolInfo’. 7) Step 7 API response status code should be 200, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.2.6.2.3 Type: ResourcePoolInfo’. 8) Step 8 API response status code should be 200, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.2.6.2.3 Type: ResourcePoolInfo’. 9) Step 9 API response status code should be 200, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.2.6.2.3 Type: ResourcePoolInfo’. 10) Step 10 API response status code should be 200, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.2.6.2.4 ResourceInfo’. 11) Step 11 API response status code should be 200, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.2.6.2.4 ResourceInfo’. 12) Step 12 API response status code should be 200, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.2.6.2.4 ResourceInfo’. 13) Step 13 API response status code should be 200, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.2.6.2.4 ResourceInfo’.

### 7.3.3 SMO succeeds to subscribe for O2ims inventory changes
notification and succeeds to receive notifications.

#### 7.3.3.1 Test Purpose
The purpose of this test case is to verify that after O-Cloud succeeds to deliver O-Cloud Available Notification to SMO, SMO succeeds to subscribe to O-Cloud O2ims inventory changes notification, and SMO succeeds to receive notification when o2ims inventory changes.

#### 7.3.3.2 Initial conditions
1) The Test Tool received O-Cloud Available Notification from O-Cloud. 2) Test Tool is provided with ${O2ims-endpoint} by extracting it from O-Cloud Available Notification. 3) Test Tool is provided with valid ${O2ims-api-token} (by extracting it from O-Cloud Available Notification or some other way).

#### 7.3.3.3 Procedure
Step 1. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool create a subscription via API: POST ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims- infrastructureInventory/v1/subscriptions, the call back field as example: ${SMO_ENDPOINT}/mock_smo/v1/o2ims_inventory_observer Step 2. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool queries subscription list without filter via API: GET ${O2ims- endpoint}/o2ims-infrastructureInventory/v1/subscriptions Step 3. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool queries subscription list with filter (e.g., filter by a valid ${subscriptionId}) via API: GET ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims- infrastructureInventory/v1/subscriptions?filter=(eq,subscriptionId,${subscriptionId}) Step 4. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool queries a subscription detail via API: GET ${O2ims- endpoint}/o2ims-infrastructureInventory/v1/subscriptions/${subscriptionId} Step 5. Trigger O2IMS inventory changes from O-Cloud side and observe the Test Tool receiving notification of this O2IMS inventory change. Step 6. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool delete a subscription via API: DELETE ${O2ims- endpoint}/o2ims-infrastructureInventory/v1/subscriptions/${subscriptionId}

#### 7.3.3.4 Expected Results
The test is considered passed if 1) Step 1 API response status code should be 201, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.2.4.11.3.1-2 InventorySubscriptionInfo’. 2) Step 2 API response status code should be 200, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.2.4.11.3.2 GET’ 3) Step 3 API response status code should be 200, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.2.4.11.3.2 GET’ 4) Step 4 API response status code should be 200, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.2.4.12.2 Resource definition’ 5) Step 5 Test Tool O-Cloud Inventory changes Notification API Endpoint, for example: ${SMO_ENDPOINT}/mock_smo/v1/o2ims_inventory_observer received the notification upon o2ims inventory change, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.2.5.1.1 Inventory Change Notification Description’ 6) Step6. The API response status should be 200, and the response data is compliant with [7] section ‘3.2.4.12.3.5 DELETE’.

### 7.3.4 SMO succeeds to create alarmSubscription, receive alarm
notification, and query alarm list.

#### 7.3.4.1 Test Purpose
After O-Cloud succeeds deliver O-Cloud Available notification to SMO, SMO succeeds to subscribe for notification of alarm changes notification, and SMO succeeds to query alarm list and detail, and acknowledge alarm.

#### 7.3.4.2 Initial conditions
1) The Test Tool received O-Cloud Available Notification from O-Cloud. 2) Test Tool is provided with ${O2ims-endpoint} by extracting it from O-Cloud Available Notification. 3) Test Tool is provided with valid ${O2ims-api-token} (by extracting it from O-Cloud Available Notification or some other way).

#### 7.3.4.3 Procedure
Step 1. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool creates an alarmSubscription for receiving alarm changes notification via API: POST ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims-infrastructureMonitoring/v1/alarmSubscriptions, the call back field as example: ${SMO_ENDPOINT}/mock_smo/v1/o2ims_alarm_observer Step 2. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool queries alarmSubscription list via API: GET ${O2ims- endpoint}/o2ims-infrastructureMonitoring/v1/alarmSubscriptions Step 3. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool queries alarmSubscription details with alarmSubscriptionId via API: GET ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims-infrastructureMonitoring/v1/alarmSubscriptions/${alarmSubscriptionId} Step 4. Trigger alarm change on O-Cloud side. Step 5. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool queries alarm list via API: GET ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims- infrastructureMonitoring/v1/alarms Step 6. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool queries alarm list with filter via API: GET ${O2ims- endpoint}/o2ims-infrastructureMonitoring/v1/alarms?filter=(eq,resourceTypeId,${resourceTypeId}) Step 7. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool queries alarm list with selector via API: GET ${O2ims- endpoint}/o2ims-infrastructureMonitoring/v1/alarms?all_fields Step 8. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool queries alarm detail with alarmEventRecordId via API: GET ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims-infrastructureMonitoring/v1/alarms/${alarmEventRecordId} Step 9. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool acknowledge alarm with alarmEventRecordId via API: PATCH ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims-infrastructureMonitoring/v1/alarms/${alarmEventRecordId} Step 10. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool deletes alarmSubscription with alarmSubscriptionId via API: DELETE ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims-infrastructureMonitoring/v1/alarmSubscriptions/${alarmSubscriptionId} Step 11. Trigger alarm change on O-Cloud side.

#### 7.3.4.4 Expected Results
The test is considered passed if 1) Step 1 API response status code should be 201, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.3.4.4.3.1 POST’. 2) Step 2 API response status code should be 200, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.3.4.4.3.2 GET’. 3) Step 3 API response status code should be 200, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.3.4.4.3.2 GET’. 4) Step 4 Test Tool O-Cloud Alarm Changes Notification API Endpoint, for example: ${SMO_ENDPOINT}/mock_smo/v1/o2ims_alarm_observer succeeds receiving alarm change notification, and alarm change notification data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.3.5.1.1 Alarm Change Notification Description’. 5) Step 5 API response status code should be 200, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.3.4.2.3.2 GET’. 6) Step 6 API response status code should be 200, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.3.6.2.2 Type: AlarmEventRecord’. 7) Step 7 API response status code should be 200, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.3.6.2.2 Type: AlarmEventRecord’. 8) Step 8 API response status code should be 200, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.3.6.2.2 Type: AlarmEventRecord’. 9) Step 9 API response status code should be 200, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.3.6.2.4 Type: AlarmEventRecordModifications’. 10) Step 10 API response status code should be 200, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.3.4.5.3.5 Delete’. 11) Step 11 Observe the Test Tool does not receive alarm change notification anymore.

### 7.3.5 Verify general aspects of O2ims API.

#### 7.3.5.1 Test Purpose
The purpose of this test case is to verify that after O-Cloud succeeds to deliver O-Cloud Available notification to SMO, SMO succeeds to issue API requests complying to '3.1.2 URI structure and supported content formats.

#### 7.3.5.2 Initial conditions
1) The Test Tool received O-Cloud Available Notification from O-Cloud. 2) Test Tool is provided with ${O2ims-endpoint} by extracting it from O-Cloud Available Notification. 3) Test Tool is provided with valid ${O2ims-api-token} (by extracting it from O-Cloud Available Notification or some other way).

#### 7.3.5.3 Procedure
Step 1. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool queries ApiVersionInformation of o2ims infrastructureInventory services via API: GET ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims-infrastructureInventory/api_versions Step 2. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool queries ApiVersionInformation of o2ims infrastructureMonitoring service via API: GET ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims-infrastructureMonitoring/api_versions Step 3. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool queries Resources with nextpage_opaque_marker via API: GET ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims- infrastructureInventory/v1/resourcePools/${resourcePoolId}/resources?nextpage_opaque_marker=2 Step 4. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool queries resource with filter with below APIs ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims- infrastructureInventory/v1/resourcePools/${resourcePoolId}/resources?filter=(eq,resourceId,${resourceId}) ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims- infrastructureInventory/v1/resourcePools/${resourcePoolId}/resources?filter=(neq,resourceId,${resourceId}) ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims-infrastructureInventory/v1/resourceTypes?filter=(cont,description,Ethernet) ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims-infrastructureInventory/v1/resourceTypes?filter=(ncont,description,Ethernet) ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims- infrastructureInventory/v1/resourceTypes?filter=(in,name,pserver,pserver_if,pserver_mem) ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims- infrastructureInventory/v1/resourceTypes?filter=(nin,name,pserver,pserver_if,pserver_mem) Step 5. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool queries resources with attribute selector via API: GET ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims-infrastructureInventory/v1/resourceTypes?all_fields ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims-infrastructureInventory/v1/resourceTypes?fields=extensions ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims-infrastructureInventory/v1/resourceTypes?exclude_fields=extensions ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims-infrastructureInventory/v1/resourceTypes?exclude_default

#### 7.3.5.4 Expected Results
The test is considered passed if 1) Step 1. API response status code should be 200, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.1.6.1.6 Type: ApiVersionInformation’. 2) Step 2. API response status code should be 200, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.1.6.1.6 Type: ApiVersionInformation’. 3) Step 3. API response status code should be 200, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.1.6.2.2 Simple Data Types’. 4) Step 4. API response status code should be 200, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.1.4.3 Handling of large query results’. 5) Step 5. API response status code should be 200, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.1.4.3 Handling of large query results’.

### 7.3.6 SMO gets 405 while sending O2ims APIs with unsupported method.

#### 7.3.6.1 Test Purpose
The purpose of this test case is to verify that after O-Cloud succeeds to deliver O-Cloud Available notification to SMO, SMO gets 405 responses while issuing API requests with unsupported method.

#### 7.3.6.2 Initial conditions
1) The Test Tool received O-Cloud Available Notification from O-Cloud. 2) Test Tool is provided with ${O2ims-endpoint} by extracting it from O-Cloud Available Notification. 3) Test Tool is provided with valid ${O2ims-api-token} (by extracting it from O-Cloud Available Notification or some other way).

#### 7.3.6.3 Procedure
Step 1. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool issues API request with unsupported method to operate resourceTypes via API: POST ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims-infrastructureInventory/v1/resourceTypes Step 2. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool issues API request with unsupported method to operate resourcePool via API: POST ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims-infrastructureInventory/v1/resourcePools Step 3. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool issues API request with unsupported method to operate resource via API: POST ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims-infrastructureInventory/v1/resourcePools/${resourcePoolId}/resources Step 4. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool issues API request with unsupported method to operate DeploymentManager via API: POST ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims-infrastructureInventory/v1/deploymentManagers Step 5. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool issues API request with unsupported method to operate O-cloud via API: POST ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims-infrastructureInventory/v1/ Step 6. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool issues API request with unsupported method to operate Inventory Subscription via API: PATCH ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims-infrastructureInventory/v1/subscriptions Step 7. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool issues API request with unsupported method to operate Alarm via API: POST ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims-infrastructureMonitoring/v1/alarms Step 8. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool issues API request with unsupported method to operate Alarm Subscription via API: PATCH ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims-infrastructureMonitoring/v1/alarmSubscriptions

#### 7.3.6.4 Expected Results
The test is considered passed if 1) Step 1 API response status code should be 405, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.2.4.2.3.1, 3.2.4.2.3.3, 3.2.4.2.3.4, 3.2.4.2.3.5.’. 2) Step 2 API response status code should be 405, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.2.4.3.3.1, 3.2.4.3.3.3, 3.2.4.3.3.4, 3.2.4.3.3.5’. 3) Step 3 API response status code should be 405, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.2.4.4.3.1, 3.2.4.4.3.3, 3.2.4.4.3.4, 3.2.4.4.3.5’. 4) Step 4 API response status code should be 405, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.2.4.5.3.1, 3.2.4.5.3.3, 3.2.4.5.3.4, 3.2.4.5.3.5’. 5) Step 5 API response status code should be 405, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.2.4.6.3.1, 3.2.4.6.3.3, 3.2.4.6.3.4, 3.2.4.6.3.5’. 6) Step 6 API response status code should be 405, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.2.4.7.3.1, 3.2.4.7.3.3, 3.2.4.7.3.4, 3.2.4.7.3.5’. 7) Step 7 API response status code should be 405, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.2.4.8.3.1, 3.2.4.8.3.3, 3.2.4.8.3.4, 3.2.4.8.3.5’. 8) Step 8 API response status code should be 405, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.2.4.9.3.1, 3.2.4.9.3.3, 3.2.4.9.3.4, 3.2.4.9.3.5’.

### 7.3.7 SMO gets 400 while issuing O2ims APIs with incorrect data.

#### 7.3.7.1 Test Purpose
The purpose of this test case is to verify that after O-Cloud succeeds to deliver O-Cloud Available notification to SMO, SMO gets 400 response with Problem Details while issuing o2ims API requests with incorrect data.

#### 7.3.7.2 Initial conditions
1) The Test Tool received O-Cloud Available Notification from O-Cloud 2) Test Tool is provided with ${O2ims-endpoint} by extracting it from O-Cloud Available Notification. 3) Test Tool is provided with valid ${O2ims-api-token} (by extracting it from O-Cloud Available Notification or some other way).

#### 7.3.7.3 Procedure
Step 1. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool issues API request with incorrect data to operate resourceTypes via API: GET ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims- infrastructureInventory/v1/resourceTypes?filter=(eq,WrongAttrName,anyvalue) Step 2. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool issues API request with incorrect data to operate resourcePool via API: GETo2ims-infrastructureInventory/v1/resourcePools?filter=(eq,WrongAttrName,anyvalue) Step 3. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool issues API request with incorrect data to operate resource via API: GET ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims- infrastructureInventory/v1/resourcePools/${resourcePoolId}/resources?filter=(eq,WrongAttrName,anyvalue) Step 4. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool issues API request with incorrect data to operate DeploymentManager via API: GET ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims- infrastructureInventory/v1/deploymentManagers?filter=(eq,WrongAttrName,anyvalue) Step 5. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool issues API request with incorrect data to operate O-cloud via API: GET ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims-infrastructureInventory/v1/?fields=(O-cloudId,WrongAttrName) Step 6. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool issues API request with incorrect data to operate Inventory Subscription via API: GET/o2ims/infrastructureInventory/v1/subscriptions?fields=(SubscriptionId,WrongAttrName) Step 7. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool issues API request with incorrect data to operate Alarm via API: GET ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims-infrastructureMonitoring/v1/alarms?fields=(AlarmId,WrongAttrName) Step 8. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool issues API request with incorrect data to operate Alarm Subscription via API: GET ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims- infrastructureMonitoring/v1/alarmSubscriptions?fields=(AlarmId,WrongAttrName)

#### 7.3.7.4 Expected Results
The test is considered passed if 1) Step 1 API response status code should be 400, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.1.5 Error reporting and 3.6.7.2 Protocol errors’. 2) Step 2 API response status code should be 400, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.1.5 Error reporting and 3.6.7.2 Protocol errors’. 3) Step 3 API response status code should be 400, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.6.7.3 Application errors’. 4) Step 4 API response status code should be 400, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.6.7.2 Protocol errors, 3.6.7.3 Application errors’. 5) Step 5 API response status code should be 400, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.6.7.2 Protocol errors ,3.6.7.3 Application errors’. 6) Step 6 API response status code should be 400, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.6.7.2 Protocol errors ,3.6.7.3 Application errors’. 7) Step 7 API response status code should be 400, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.6.7.2 Protocol errors, 3.6.7.3 Application errors’. 8) Step 8 API response status code should be 400, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.6.7.2 Protocol errors ,3.6.7.3 Application errors’.

### 7.3.8 SMO gets security error response while issuing APIs with incorrect
token.

#### 7.3.8.1 Test Purpose
The purpose of this test case is to verify that after O-Cloud succeeds to deliver O-Cloud Available notification to SMO, SMO gets error response while issuing API requests with incorrect token data.

#### 7.3.8.2 Initial conditions
1) The Test Tool received O-Cloud Available Notification from O-Cloud 2) Test Tool is provided with ${O2ims-endpoint} by extracting it from O-Cloud Available Notification. 3) Test Tool is provided with invalid ${O2ims-api-token}.

#### 7.3.8.3 Procedure
Step 1. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool issues API request without Authorization Bearer Token Header via API: GET ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims-infrastructureInventory/v1/ Step 2. With invalid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool issues API request with Authorization Bearer Token Header and invalid token via API: GET ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims-infrastructureInventory/v1/ Step 3. With invalid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool issues API request with Authorization Bearer Token Header and valid token via API: GET ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims-infrastructureInventory/v1/

#### 7.3.8.4 Expected Results
The test is considered passed if 1) Step 1 API response status code should be 401, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.1.7.1 Introduction’. 2) Step 2 API response status code should be 401, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.1.7.1 Introduction’. 3) Step 3 API response status code should be 200, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.1.7.1 Introduction’.

### 7.3.9 SMO gets client error response while issuing requests with incorrect
APIs

#### 7.3.9.1 Test Purpose
The purpose of this test case is to verify that after O-Cloud succeeds to deliver O-Cloud Available notification to SMO, SMO gets correct error response while issuing request with incorrect APIs.

#### 7.3.9.2 Initial conditions
1) The Test Tool has started.

#### 7.3.9.3 Procedure
Step 1. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool queries API with wrong port via API: GET ${O2ims- endpoint}/o2ims-infrastructureInventory/v1/deploymentManagers Step 2. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool queries API with wrong URL via API: GET ${O2ims- endpoint}/o2ims-infrastructureInventory/v1/deploymentManagersWrongURL Step 3. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool queries API with wrong api version via API: GET ${O2ims- endpoint}/o2ims-infrastructureInventory/v2/deploymentManagers Step 4. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool queries API with wrong deploymentManagerID via API: GET ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims-infrastructureInventory/v1/wrongDeploymentManagerID

#### 7.3.9.4 Expected Results
The test is considered passed if 1) Step 1 With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool does not receive API response. 2) Step 2 API response status code should be 404, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.6.7.1 General, 3.6.7.3 Application errors’’. 3) Step 3 API response status code should be 404, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.6.7.1 General, 3.6.7.3 Application errors’’. 4) Step 4 API response status code should be 404, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.6.7.1 General, 3.6.7.3 Application errors’’.

### 7.3.10 SMO succeeds to get O2dms (in Kubernetes native API Profile)
access information.

#### 7.3.10.1 Test Purpose
The purpose of this test case is to verify SMO succeeds to query deploymentManager to extract O2dms access information after O-Cloud succeeds to deliver O-Cloud Available notification to SMO.

#### 7.3.10.2 Initial conditions
1) The Test Tool received O-Cloud Available Notification from O-Cloud 2) Test Tool is provided with ${O2ims-endpoint} by extracting it from O-Cloud Available Notification. 3) Test Tool is provided with valid ${O2ims-api-token} (by extracting it from O-Cloud Available Notification or some other way).

#### 7.3.10.3 Procedure
Step 1. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool queries deploymentManager list without filter via API: GET ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims-infrastructureInventory/v1/deploymentManagers Step 2. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool queries deploymentManager list with filter (e.g., filter by a valid ${deploymentManagerId}) via API: GET ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims- infrastructureInventory/v1/deploymentManagers?filter=(eq, deploymentManagerId, ${deploymentManagerId}) Step 3. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool queries a deploymentManager detail via API: GET ${O2ims- endpoint}/o2ims-infrastructureInventory/v1/deploymentManagers/${deploymentManagerId} Step 4. Extract ${k8s_cluster_api_endpoint} from response data of step3, Test Tool queries Kubernetes resources with access credentials from a deploymentManager with Kubernetes API: GET ${k8s_cluster_api_endpoint}/api/v1/namespaces

#### 7.3.10.4 Expected Results
The test is considered passed if: 1) Step 1 API response status code should be 200, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.2.4.9.2 Resource Definition, 3.2.4.8.3.2 Get, 3.2.4.8.2 DeploymentManagerInfo’. 2) Step 2 API response status code should be 200, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.2.4.8.3.2 Get and 3.2.4.8.2 DeploymentManagerInfo’. 3) Step 3 API response status code should be 200, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.2.4.8.3.2 Get and 3.2.6.2.5 DeploymentManagerInfo’. 4) Step 4 API response status code should be 200, and response data contains correct Kubernetes resources information.

### 7.3.11 SMO gets 400 when issuing APIs with junk/unsupported data.

#### 7.3.11.1 Test Purpose
The purpose of this test case is to verify that after O-Cloud succeeds to deliver O-Cloud Available notification to SMO, SMO gets 400 response with Problem Details when issuing o2ims API requests with junk/unsupported data.

#### 7.3.11.2 Initial conditions
The Test Tool received O-Cloud Available Notification from O-Cloud. Test Tool is provided with ${O2ims-endpoint} by extracting it from O-Cloud Available Notification. Test Tool is provided with valid ${O2ims-api-token} (by extracting it from O-Cloud Available Notification or some other way).

#### 7.3.11.3 Procedure
Step 1. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool issues API request with junk data to create inventory subscription via API: POST ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims-infrastructureInventory/v1/subscriptions Step 2. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool issues API request with unsupported data, such as xml, to create inventory subscription via API: POST ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims-infrastructureInventory/v1/subscriptions Step 3. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool issues API request with junk data to create alarm subscription via API: POST ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims-infrastructureMonitoring/v1/alarmSubscriptions Step 4. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool issues API request with unsupported data, such as xml to create alarm subscription via API: POST ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims-infrastructureMonitoring/v1/alarmSubscriptions

#### 7.3.11.4 Expected Results
The test is considered passed if: 1) Step 1 API response status code should be 400, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.1.5 Error reporting and 3.6.7.2 Protocol errors’. 2) Step 2 API response status code should be 400, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.6.7.2 Protocol errors, 3.6.7.3 Application errors’. 3) Step 3 API response status code should be 400, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.1.5 Error reporting and 3.6.7.2 Protocol errors’. 4) Step 4 API response status code should be 400, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.6.7.2 Protocol errors, 3.6.7.3 Application errors’.

### 7.3.12 SMO gets 404 when issuing APIs with wrong data.

#### 7.3.12.1 Test Purpose
The purpose of this test case is to verify that after O-Cloud succeeds to deliver O-Cloud Available notification to SMO, SMO gets 404 response with Problem Details when issuing o2ims API requests with wrong data.

#### 7.3.12.2 Initial conditions
1) The Test Tool received O-Cloud Available Notification from O-Cloud. 2) Test Tool is provided with ${O2ims-endpoint} by extracting it from O-cloud Available Notification. 3) Test Tool is provided with valid ${O2ims-api-token} (by extracting it from O-Cloud Available Notification or some other way).

#### 7.3.12.3 Procedure
Step 1. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool issues API request with wrong subscriptionId to delete inventory subscription via API: DELETE ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims- infrastructureInventory/v1/subscriptions/${subscriptionId} Step 2. With valid ${O2ims-api-token}, Test Tool issues API request with wrong alarmSubscriptionId, to delete alarm subscription via API: DELETE ${O2ims-endpoint}/o2ims- infrastructureMonitoring/v1/alarmSubscriptions/${alarmSubscriptionId}

#### 7.3.12.4 Expected Results
The test is considered passed if: 1) Step 1 API response status code should be 404, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.1.5 Error reporting and 3.6.7.2 Protocol errors’. 2) Step 2 API response status code should be 404, and response data is compliant to [7] section ‘3.1.5 Error reporting and 3.6.7.2 Protocol errors’.

## 7.4 O2 DMS Test

### 7.4.1 General
Regarding the O-RAN O2dms interface, the present document version specifies the testing of the following profile specification(s):
- ETSI NFV Protocol specified by O-RAN.WG6.O2DMS-INTERFACE-ETSI-NFV-PROFILE [4].

### 7.4.2 O2 DMS ETSI NFV Profile Test

#### 7.4.2.1 Overview
For the API conformance testing of APIs specified in O-RAN.WG6.O2DMS-INTERFACE-ETSI-NFV-PROFILE [4], the following items shall apply for each test case define in each sub-clause
- The generic test description shall follow the provisions defined in clause 4.5 of ETSI GS NFV-TST 010 [6].
- The test suite for the O2DMS ETSI NFV profile API produced by the O-Cloud DMS as specified in the O-
RAN.WG6.O2DMS-INTERFACE-ETSI-NFV-PROFILE [4] shall follow the provisions in Annex E and Annex F of ETSI GS NFV-TST 010 [6].
> NOTE: O-RAN.WG6.O2DMS-INTERFACE-ETSI-NFV-PROFILE [4] is a profiling spec of ETSI GS NFV-SOL
003 [5]. ETSI GS NFV-TST 010 [6] is a test spec for ETSI NFV specifications which includes ETSI GS NFV-SOL 003 [5] as test target.

#### 7.4.2.2 Test configuration
For the O2 DMS ETSI NFV Profile test, the test configuration of O-Cloud DMS as producer of VNFM-defined APIs, shall follow the provisions specified in clause 4.3.1 and c4.3.3 of ETSI GS NFV-TST 010 [6], and AUT is O- Cloud DMS.

#### 7.4.2.3 Test case for Service operations

##### 7.4.2.3.1 Lifecycle Service operations
7.4.2.3.1.1 Instantiate NF Deployment test case In order to test Instantiate NF Deployment specified in clause 2.4.2.1 of O-RAN.WG6.O2DMS-INTERFACE- ETSI-NFV-PROFILE [4], following test specified in Annex F.7 of ETSI GS NFV-TST 010 [6] shall be followed:
- Test ID 7.3.1.22.1 “Create VNF Instance workflow”
- Test ID 7.3.1.26.1 “VNF Instantiation workflow”
- Test ID 7.3.1.12.2 “Get Individual VNF LCM Operation occurrences”
7.4.2.3.1.2 Terminate NF Deployment test case In order to test Terminate NF Deployment specified in clause 2.4.2.2 of O-RAN.WG6.O2DMS-INTERFACE-ETSI- NFV-PROFILE [4], following tests specified in Annex F.7 of ETSI GS NFV-TST 010 [6] shall be followed:
- Test ID 7.3.1.33.1 “Terminate a VNF Instance”
- Test ID 7.3.1.23.1 “Delete VNF Instance workflow”
- Test ID 7.3.1.12.2 “Get Individual VNF LCM Operation occurrences”
7.4.2.3.1.3 Query NF Deployment test case In order to test Query NF Deployment specified in clause 2.4.2.3 of O-RAN.WG6.O2DMS-INTERFACE-ETSI- NFV-PROFILE [4], following tests specified in Annex F.7 of ETSI GS NFV-TST 010 [6] shall be followed:
- Test ID 7.3.1.1.2 “GET information about multiple VNF instances”
- Test ID 7.3.1.2.2 “Get Information about an individual VNF Instance”
7.4.2.3.1.4 Heal NF Deployment test case In order to test Heal NF Deployment specified in clause 2.4.2.4 of O-RAN.WG6.O2DMS-INTERFACE-ETSI- NFV-PROFILE [4], following tests specified in Annex F.7 of ETSI GS NFV-TST 010 [6] shall be followed:
- Test ID 7.3.1.8.1 “POST Heal a VNF Instance”
- Test ID 7.3.1.12.2 “Get Individual VNF CM Operation occurrences”
7.4.2.3.1.5 Scale NF Deployment test case In order to test Scale NF Deployment specified in clause 2.4.2.5 of O-RAN.WG6.O2DMS-INTERFACE-ETSI- NFV-PROFILE [4], following tests specified in Annex F.7 of ETSI GS NFV-TST 010 [6] shall be followed:
- Test ID 7.3.1.4.1 “POST Scale a VNF Instance”
- Test ID 7.3.1.5.1 “POST Scale a VNF Instance to level”
- Test ID 7.3.1.12.2 “Get Individual VNF LCM Operation occurrences”
7.4.2.3.1.6 Change external connectivity of an NF Deployment test case In order to test Change external connectivity of an NF Deployment specified in clause 2.4.2.6 of O- RAN.WG6.O2DMS-INTERFACE-ETSI-NFV-PROFILE [4], following tests specified in Annex F.7 of ETSI GS NFV-TST 010 [6] shall be followed:
- Test ID 7.3.1.10.1 “POST Change external VNF connectivity”
- Test ID 7.3.1.12.2 “Get Individual VNF LCM Operation occurrences”
7.4.2.3.1.7 Change current NF Deployment package test case In order to test Change current NF Deployment package specified in clause 2.4.2.7 of O-RAN.WG6.O2DMS- INTERFACE-ETSI-NFV-PROFILE [4], following tests specified in Annex F.7 of ETSI GS NFV-TST 010 [6] shall be followed:
- Test ID 7.3.1.12.2 “Get Individual VNF LCM Operation occurrences”
- Test ID 7.3.1.37.1 “ChangeCurrentVNFPackageTask”
7.4.2.3.1.8 Change NF Deployment flavour test case In order to test Change NF Deployment flavour specified in clause 2.4.2.8 of O-RAN.WG6.O2DMS-INTERFACE- ETSI-NFV-PROFILE [4], following tests specified in Annex F.7 of ETSI GS NFV-TST 010 [6] shall be followed:
- Test ID 7.3.1.6.1 “POST Change deployment flavour of a vnfInstance”
- Test ID 7.3.1.12.2 “Get Individual VNF LCM Operation occurrences”

##### 7.4.2.3.2 Fault Service operations
7.4.2.3.2.1 Get alarm list test case In order to test Get alarm list specified in clause 2.4.3.1 of O-RAN.WG6.O2DMS-INTERFACE-ETSI-NFV- PROFILE [4], following test specified in Annex F.7 of ETSI GS NFV-TST 010 [6] shall be followed:
- Test ID 7.3.5.1.2 “Get information about multiple alarms”
- Test ID 7.3.5.2.2 “Get information about an fault management individual alarm”
7.4.2.3.2.2 Notify test case In order to test Notify specified in clause 2.4.3.2 of O-RAN.WG6.O2DMS-INTERFACE-ETSI-NFV-PROFILE [4], following test specified in Annex F.7 of ETSI GS NFV-TST 010 [6] shall be followed:
- Test ID 7.3.5.5.1 “VNF Fault Alarm Notification”
7.4.2.3.2.3 Acknowledge alarm test case In order to test Acknowledge alarm specified in clause 2.4.3.3 of O-RAN.WG6.O2DMS-INTERFACE-ETSI-NFV- PROFILE [4], following test specified in Annex F.7 of ETSI GS NFV-TST 010 [6] shall be followed:
- Test ID 7.3.5.2.4 “PATCH Fault Management Individual Alarm”

##### 7.4.2.3.3 Performance Service operations
7.4.2.3.3.1 Create PM Job test case In order to test Create PM Job specified in clause 2.4.4.1 of O-RAN.WG6.O2DMS-INTERFACE-ETSI-NFV- PROFILE [4], following test specified in Annex F.7 of ETSI GS NFV-TST 010 [6] shall be followed:
- Test ID 7.3.4.1.9 “Create new VNF Performance Monitoring Job”
7.4.2.3.3.2 Query/read PM job information test case In order to test Query/read PM job information specified in clause 2.4.4.2 of O-RAN.WG6.O2DMS-INTERFACE- ETSI-NFV-PROFILE [4], following test specified in Annex F.7 of ETSI GS NFV-TST 010 [6] shall be followed:
- Test ID 7.3.4.1.1 “GET all VNF Performance Monitoring Jobs”
- Test ID 7.3.4.2.1 “GET individual VNF Performance Job”
7.4.2.3.3.3 Delete a PM job test case In order to test Delete a PM job specified in clause 2.4.4.3 of O-RAN.WG6.O2DMS-INTERFACE-ETSI-NFV- PROFILE [4], following test specified in Annex F.7 of ETSI GS NFV-TST 010 [6] shall be followed:
- Test ID 7.3.4.2.3 “DELETE Individual VNF Performance Job”
7.4.2.3.3.4 Create a threshold test case In order to test Create a threshold specified in clause 2.4.4.4 of O-RAN.WG6.O2DMS-INTERFACE-ETSI-NFV- PROFILE [4], following test specified in Annex F.7 of ETSI GS NFV-TST 010 [6] shall be followed:
- Test ID 7.3.4.4.5 “Create new Performance Threshold”
7.4.2.3.3.5 Query/read threshold information test case In order to test Query/read threshold information specified in clause 2.4.4.5 of O-RAN.WG6.O2DMS- INTERFACE-ETSI-NFV-PROFILE [4], following test specified in Annex F.7 of ETSI GS NFV-TST 010 [6] shall be followed:
- Test ID 7.3.4.4.1 “GET All Performance Thresholds”
- Test ID 7.3.4.5.1 “GET Individual Threshold”
7.4.2.3.3.6 Delete a threshold test case In order to test Delete a threshold specified in clause 2.4.4.6 of O-RAN.WG6.O2DMS-INTERFACE-ETSI-NFV- PROFILE [4], following test specified in Annex F.7 of ETSI GS NFV-TST 010 [6] shall be followed:
- Test ID 7.3.4.5.3 “DELETE Individual Threshold”
7.4.2.3.3.7 Sending performance related notifications test case In order to test Sending performance related notifications specified in clause 2.4.4.7 of O-RAN.WG6.O2DMS- INTERFACE-ETSI-NFV-PROFILE [4], following test specified in Annex F.7 of ETSI GS NFV-TST 010 [6] shall be followed:
- Test ID 7.3.4.8.1 “VNF Performance Information Availability Notification”
- Test ID 7.3.4.8.2 “VNF Threshold Crossed Notification”
7.4.2.3.3.8 Obtaining performance reports test case In order to test Obtaining performance reports specified in clause 2.4.4.8 of O-RAN.WG6.O2DMS-INTERFACE- ETSI-NFV-PROFILE [4], following test specified in Annex F.7 of ETSI GS NFV-TST 010 [6] shall be followed:
- Test ID 7.3.4.8.1 “VNF Performance Information Availability Notification”
- Test ID 7.3.4.1.1 “GET all VNF Performance Monitoring Jobs”
- Test ID 7.3.4.3.1 “Get Individual Performance Report”

#### 7.4.2.4 Test case for O2dms_DeploymentLifecycle Service API

##### 7.4.2.4.1 VNF instances REST resource test case
In order to test VNF instances REST resource specified in clause 3.2.4.2 of O-RAN.WG6.O2DMS-INTERFACE- ETSI-NFV-PROFILE [4], following test specified in Annex F.7 of ETSI GS NFV-TST 010 [6] shall be followed.
- Test ID 7.3.1.1.1 “POST Create a new vnfInstance”
- Test ID 7.3.1.1.2 “GET information about multiple VNF instances”
- Test ID 7.3.1.1.3 “GET information about multiple VNF instances Bad Request Invalid attribute-based filtering
parameters”
- Test ID 7.3.1.1.4 “GET information about multiple VNF instances Bad Request Invalid attribute selector”
- Test ID 7.3.1.1.5 “GET information about multiple VNF instances with "all_fields" attribute selector”
- Test ID 7.3.1.1.6 “GET information about multiple VNF instances with "exclude_default" attribute selector”
- Test ID 7.3.1.1.7 “GET information about multiple VNF instances with "fields" attribute selector”
- Test ID 7.3.1.1.8 “GET information about multiple VNF instances with "exclude_fields" attribute selector”
- Test ID 7.3.1.1.12 “GET information about multiple VNF instances to get Paged Response”
- Test ID 7.3.1.1.12a “GET information about multiple VNF instances as a Paged Response with
nextpage_opauque_marker parameter”
- Test ID 7.3.1.1.13 “GET information about multiple VNF instances - Bad Request Response too Big”
- Test ID 7.3.1.1.14 “GET information about multiple VNF instances with "exclude_default" and "fields" attribute
selector”
- Test ID 7.3.1.1.15 “POST Create a new vnfInstance - Unprocessible Entity”
- Test ID 7.3.1.1.16 “GET information about multiple VNF instances using Filter”

##### 7.4.2.4.2 Individual VNF instance REST resource test case
In order to test Individual VNF instance REST resource specified in clause 3.2.4.3 of O-RAN.WG6.O2DMS- INTERFACE-ETSI-NFV-PROFILE [4], following test specified in Annex F.7 of ETSI GS NFV-TST 010 [6] shall be followed.
- Test ID 7.3.1.2.2 “Get Information about an individual VNF Instance”
- Test ID 7.3.1.2.4 “PATCH Individual VNFInstance”
- Test ID 7.3.1.2.5 “PATCH Individual VNFInstance Precondition failed”
- Test ID 7.3.1.2.6 “PATCH Individual VNFInstance Conflict”
- Test ID 7.3.1.2.7 “DELETE Individual VNFInstance”
- Test ID 7.3.1.2.8 “The objective is to verify that the deletion cannot be executed currently, due to a conflict with the
state of the VNF instance resource.”
- Test ID 7.3.1.2.9 “Get Information about an individual VNF Instance - Not Found”

##### 7.4.2.4.3 Instantiate VNF task REST resource test case
In order to test Instantiate VNF task REST resource specified in clause 3.2.4.4 of O-RAN.WG6.O2DMS- INTERFACE-ETSI-NFV-PROFILE [4], following test specified in Annex F.7 of ETSI GS NFV-TST 010 [6] shall be followed.
- Test ID 7.3.1.3.1 “Post Instantiate Individual VNFInstance”
- Test ID 7.3.1.3.2 “Post Instantiate Individual VNFInstance”

##### 7.4.2.4.4 Terminate VNF task REST resource test case
In order to test Terminate VNF task REST resource specified in clause 3.2.4.5 of O-RAN.WG6.O2DMS- INTERFACE-ETSI-NFV-PROFILE [4], following test specified in Annex F.7 of ETSI GS NFV-TST 010 [6] shall be followed.
- Test ID 7.3.1.7.1 “POST Terminate a vnfInstance”
- Test ID 7.3.1.7.2 “POST Terminate a vnfInstance Conflict (Not-Instantiated)”

##### 7.4.2.4.5 Notification test case
In order to test Notifications issued on the O2dms_DeploymentLifecycle Service API specified in clause 3.2.5 of NFV-TST 010 [6] shall be followed.
- Test ID 7.3.1.34.1 “VNF LCM Operation Occurrence Start Notification”
- Test ID 7.3.1.34.2 “VNF LCM Operation Occurrence Result Notification”
- Test ID 7.3.1.34.3 “VNF Identifier Creation Notification”
- Test ID 7.3.1.34.4 “VNF Identifier Deletion Notification”

##### 7.4.2.4.6 Heal VNF task REST resource test case
In order to test Heal VNF task REST resource specified in clause 3.2.4.6 of O-RAN.WG6.O2DMS-INTERFACE- ETSI-NFV-PROFILE [4], following test specified in Annex F.7 of ETSI GS NFV-TST 010 [6] shall be followed.
- Test ID 7.3.1.8.1 “POST Heal a vnfInstance”
- Test ID 7.3.1.8.2 “POST Heal a vnfInstance Conflict (Not-Instantiated)”
- Test ID 7.3.1.8.3 “POST Heal a vnfInstance Not Found”

##### 7.4.2.4.7 Scale VNF task REST resource test case
In order to test Scale VNF task REST resource specified in clause 3.2.4.11 of O-RAN.WG6.O2DMS-INTERFACE- ETSI-NFV-PROFILE [4], following test specified in Annex F.7 of ETSI GS NFV-TST 010 [6] shall be followed.
- Test ID 7.3.1.4.1 “POST Scale a vnfInstance”
- Test ID 7.3.1.4.2 “POST Scale a vnfInstance Conflict (Not-Instantiated)”
- Test ID 7.3.1.4.3 “POST Scale a vnfInstance Not Found”

##### 7.4.2.4.8 Scale VNF to Level task REST resource test case
In order to test Scale VNF to Level task REST resource specified in clause 3.2.4.12 of O-RAN.WG6.O2DMS- INTERFACE-ETSI-NFV-PROFILE [4], following test specified in Annex F.7 of ETSI GS NFV-TST 010 [6] shall be followed.
- Test ID 7.3.1.5.1 “POST Scale a vnfInstance to level”
- Test ID 7.3.1.5.2 “POST Scale a vnfInstance to level Conflict (Not-Instantiated)”
- Test ID 7.3.1.5.8 “POST Scale a vnfInstance to level with scaleInfo attribute”

##### 7.4.2.4.9 Change external VNF connectivity task REST resource test case
In order to test Change external VNF connectivity task REST resource specified in clause 3.2.4.13 of O- RAN.WG6.O2DMS-INTERFACE-ETSI-NFV-PROFILE [4], following test specified in Annex F.7 of ETSI GS NFV-TST 010 [6] shall be followed.
- Test ID 7.3.1.10.1 “POST Change external VNF connectivity”

##### 7.4.2.4.10 Retry operation task REST resource test case
In order to test Retry operation task REST resource specified in clause 3.2.4.7 of O-RAN.WG6.O2DMS- INTERFACE-ETSI-NFV-PROFILE [4], following test specified in Annex F.7 of ETSI GS NFV-TST 010 [6] shall be followed.
- Test ID 7.3.1.13.1 “Post Retry operation task”
- Test ID 7.3.1.13.2 “Post Retry operation task Conflict (Not-FAILED_TEMP)”
- Test ID 7.3.1.13.3 “Post Retry operation task Not Found”

##### 7.4.2.4.11 Rollback operation task REST resource test case
In order to test Rollback operation task REST resource specified in clause 3.2.4.8 of O-RAN.WG6.O2DMS- INTERFACE-ETSI-NFV-PROFILE [4], following test specified in Annex F.7 of ETSI GS NFV-TST 010 [6] shall be followed.
- Test ID 7.3.1.14.1 “Post Rollback operation task”
- Test ID 7.3.1.14.2 “POST Rollback operation task Conflict (Not-FAILED_TEMP)”
- Test ID 7.3.1.14.3 “POST Rollback operation task Not Found”

##### 7.4.2.4.12 Fail operation task REST resource test case
In order to test Fail operation task REST resource specified in clause 3.2.4.9 of O-RAN.WG6.O2DMS- INTERFACE-ETSI-NFV-PROFILE [4], following test specified in Annex F.7 of ETSI GS NFV-TST 010 [6] shall be followed.
- Test ID 7.3.1.15.1 “POST Fail operation task”
- Test ID 7.3.1.15.2 “Post Fail operation task Conflict (Not-FAILED_TEMP)”
- Test ID 7.3.1.15.3 “Post Fail operation task Not Found”

##### 7.4.2.4.13 Cancel operation task REST resource test case
In order to test Cancel operation task REST resource specified in clause 3.2.4.10 of O-RAN.WG6.O2DMS- INTERFACE-ETSI-NFV-PROFILE [4], following test specified in Annex F.7 of ETSI GS NFV-TST 010 [6] shall be followed.
- Test ID 7.3.1.16.1 “POST Cancel operation task”
- Test ID 7.3.1.16.2 “POST Cancel operation task Conflict”
- Test ID 7.3.1.16.3 “POST Cancel operation task Not Found”

#### 7.4.2.5 Test case for O2dms_Fault Service API

##### 7.4.2.5.1 Alarms REST resource test case
In order to test Alarms REST resource specified in clause 3.3.4 of O-RAN.WG6.O2DMS-INTERFACE-ETSI-NFV- PROFILE [4], following test specified in Annex F.7 of ETSI GS NFV-TST 010 [6] shall be followed.
- Test ID 7.3.5.1.2 “Get information about multiple alarms”
- Test ID 7.3.5.1.3 “Get information about multiple alarms with filter”
- Test ID 7.3.5.1.4 “Get information about multiple alarms Bad Request Invalid attribute-based filtering parameters”
- Test ID 7.3.5.1.12 “Get information about multiple alarms as a Paged Response”
- Test ID 7.3.5.1.12a “GET information about multiple alarms as a Paged Response with nextpage_opauque_marker
parameter”
- Test ID 7.3.5.1.13 “Get information about multiple alarms - Bad Request Response too Big”

##### 7.4.2.5.2 Individual alarm REST resource test case
In order to test Individual alarm REST resource specified in clause 3.3.4 of O-RAN.WG6.O2DMS-INTERFACE- ETSI-NFV-PROFILE [4], following test specified in Annex F.7 of ETSI GS NFV-TST 010 [6] shall be followed.
- Test ID 7.3.5.2.2 “Get information about an fault management individual alarm”
- Test ID 7.3.5.2.4 “PATCH Fault Management Individual Alarm”
- Test ID 7.3.5.2.5 “Modify an individual alarm resource - Precondition failed”
- Test ID 7.3.5.2.6 “Modify an individual alarm resource - Conflict”
- Test ID 7.3.5.2.8 “Get information about an fault management individual alarm - Not Found”

##### 7.4.2.5.3 Subscriptions REST resource test case
In order to test Subscriptions REST resource specified in clause 3.3.4 of O-RAN.WG6.O2DMS-INTERFACE- ETSI-NFV-PROFILE [4], following test specified in Annex F.7 of ETSI GS NFV-TST 010 [6] shall be followed.
- Test ID 7.3.5.3.1 “Create a new Fault Management alarm subscription”
- Test ID 7.3.5.3.2 “Create a new alarm subscription - DUPLICATION”
- Test ID 7.3.5.3.3 “Create a new alarm subscription - NO DUPLICATION”
- Test ID 7.3.5.3.4 “Retrieve a list of alarm subscriptions”
- Test ID 7.3.5.3.5 “Retrieve a list of alarm subscriptions with filter”
- Test ID 7.3.5.3.6 “GET subscriptions - Bad Request Invalid attribute-based filtering parameters”
- Test ID 7.3.5.3.7 “GET subscriptions with "all_fields" attribute selector”
- Test ID 7.3.5.3.8 “GET subscriptions with "exclude_default" attribute selector”
- Test ID 7.3.5.3.9 “GET subscriptions with "fields" attribute selector”
- Test ID 7.3.5.3.10 “GET subscriptions with "exclude_fields" attribute selector”
- Test ID 7.3.5.3.14 “Retrieve a list of alarm subscriptions as Paged Response”
- Test ID 7.3.5.3.15 “GET subscriptions - Bad Request Response too Big”
- Test ID 7.3.5.3.16 “GET Subscription with attribute-based filter "id"”
- Test ID 7.3.5.3.17 “GET Subscription with attribute-based filter "filter.notificationTypes"”
- Test ID 7.3.5.3.18 “GET Subscription with attribute-based filter "filter.faultyResourceTypes"”
- Test ID 7.3.5.3.19 “GET Subscription with attribute-based filter "filter.perceivedSeverities"”
- Test ID 7.3.5.3.20 “GET Subscription with attribute-based filter "filter.eventTypes"”
- Test ID 7.3.5.3.21 “GET Subscription with attribute-based filter "filter.probableCauses"”
- Test ID 7.3.5.3.22 “POST Create a new Subscription - Unprocessable Entity”

##### 7.4.2.5.4 Individual subscription REST resource test case
In order to test Individual subscription REST resource specified in clause 3.3.4 of O-RAN.WG6.O2DMS- INTERFACE-ETSI-NFV-PROFILE [4], following test specified in Annex F.7 of ETSI GS NFV-TST 010 [6] shall be followed.
- Test ID 7.3.5.4.2 “Get Information about an individual subscription”
- Test ID 7.3.5.4.5 “DELETE an individual subscription”
- Test ID 7.3.5.4.6 “Get Information about an individual subscription - Not Found”

##### 7.4.2.5.5 Notification endpoint REST resource test case
In order to test Notification endpoint REST resource specified in clause 3.3.4 of O-RAN.WG6.O2DMS- INTERFACE-ETSI-NFV-PROFILE [4], following test specified in Annex F.7 of ETSI GS NFV-TST 010 [6] shall be followed.
- Test ID 7.3.5.5.1 “VNF Fault Alarm Notification”
- Test ID 7.3.5.5.2 “VNF Fault Alarm Cleared Notification”
- Test ID 7.3.5.5.3 “VNF Fault Alarm List Rebuilt Notification”

#### 7.4.2.6 Performance Service API

##### 7.4.2.6.1 PM jobs REST resource test case
In order to test PM jobs REST resource specified in clause 3.4.4 of O-RAN.WG6.O2DMS-INTERFACE-ETSI- NFV-PROFILE [4], following test specified in Annex F.7 of ETSI GS NFV-TST 010 [6] shall be followed.
- Test ID 7.3.4.1.1 “GET all VNF Performance Monitoring Jobs”
- Test ID 7.3.4.1.2 “GET all VNF Performance Monitoring Jobs with attribute-based filter”
- Test ID 7.3.4.1.3 “GET all VNF Performance Monitoring Jobs with all_fields attribute selector”
- Test ID 7.3.4.1.4 “GET all VNF Performance Monitoring Jobs with exclude_default attribute selector”
- Test ID 7.3.4.1.5 “GET all VNF Performance Monitoring Jobs with fields attribute selector”
- Test ID 7.3.4.1.6 “GET all VNF Performance Monitoring Jobs with exclude_fields attribute selector”
- Test ID 7.3.4.1.7 “GET VNF Performance Monitoring Jobs with invalid attribute-based filter”
- Test ID 7.3.4.1.8 “GET VNF Performance Monitoring Jobs with invalid resource endpoint”
- Test ID 7.3.4.1.9 “Create a new VNF Performance Monitoring Job”
- Test ID 7.3.4.1.13 “GET all VNF Performance Monitoring Jobs as Paged Response”
- Test ID 7.3.4.1.13a “GET all VNF Performance Monitoring Jobs as Paged Response with nextpage_opauque_marker
parameter”
- Test ID 7.3.4.1.14 “GET VNF Performance Monitoring Jobs - Bad Request Response too Big”
- Test ID 7.3.4.1.15 “GET all VNF Performance Monitoring Jobs with fields and exclude_default attribute selector”
- Test ID 7.3.4.1.16 “POST Create new VNF Performance Monitoring Job - Unprocessable Entity”

##### 7.4.2.6.2 Individual PM job REST resource test case
In order to test Individual PM job REST resource specified in clause 3.4.4 of O-RAN.WG6.O2DMS-INTERFACE- ETSI-NFV-PROFILE [4], following test specified in Annex F.7 of ETSI GS NFV-TST 010 [6] shall be followed.
- Test ID 7.3.4.2.1 “Get individual VNF Performance Job”
- Test ID 7.3.4.2.2 “Get individual VNF Performance Job with invalid resource identifier”
- Test ID 7.3.4.2.3 “Delete Individual VNF Performance Job”
- Test ID 7.3.4.2.4 “Delete individual VNF Performance Job with invalid resource identifier”
- Test ID 7.3.4.2.7 “PATCH Individual VNF Performance Job”
- Test ID 7.3.4.2.8 “PATCH Individual VNF Performance Job - Precondition failed”
- Test ID 7.3.4.2.9 “PATCH Individual VNF Performance Job - Unprocessable Entity”

##### 7.4.2.6.3 Individual performance report REST resource test case
In order to test Individual performance report REST resource specified in clause 3.4.4 of O-RAN.WG6.O2DMS- INTERFACE-ETSI-NFV-PROFILE [4], following test specified in Annex F.7 of ETSI GS NFV-TST 010 [6] shall be followed.
- Test ID 7.3.4.3.1 “Get Individual Performance Report”
- Test ID 7.3.4.3.2 “Get Individual Performance Report with invalid resource endpoint”

##### 7.4.2.6.4 Thresholds REST resource test case
In order to test Thresholds REST resource specified in clause 3.4.4 of O-RAN.WG6.O2DMS-INTERFACE-ETSI- NFV-PROFILE [4], following test specified in Annex F.7 of ETSI GS NFV-TST 010 [6] shall be followed.
- Test ID 7.3.4.4.1 “GET All Performance Thresholds”
- Test ID 7.3.4.4.2 “GET Performance Thresholds with attribute-based filter”
- Test ID 7.3.4.4.3 “GET Performance Thresholds with invalid attribute-based filter”
- Test ID 7.3.4.4.4 “GET Performance Thresholds with invalid resource endpoint”
- Test ID 7.3.4.4.5 “Create new Performance Threshold”
- Test ID 7.3.4.4.9 “GET All Performance Thresholds as Paged Response”
- Test ID 7.3.4.4.10 “GET Performance Thresholds - Bad Request Response too Big”
- Test ID 7.3.4.4.11 “POST create new Performance Threshold - Unprocessable Entity”

##### 7.4.2.6.5 Individual threshold REST resource test case
In order to test Individual threshold REST resource specified in clause 3.4.4 of O-RAN.WG6.O2DMS-INTERFACE- ETSI-NFV-PROFILE [4], following test specified in Annex F.7 of ETSI GS NFV-TST 010 [6] shall be followed.
- Test ID 7.3.4.5.1 “GET Individual Threshold”
- Test ID 7.3.4.5.2 “GET Individual Threshold with invalid resource identifier”
- Test ID 7.3.4.5.3 “DELETE Individual Threshold”
- Test ID 7.3.4.5.4 “DELETE Individual Threshold with invalid resource identifier”
- Test ID 7.3.4.5.7 “PATCH Individual Threshold”
- Test ID 7.3.4.5.8 “PATCH Individual Threshold - Preconition failed”
- Test ID 7.3.4.5.9 “PATCH Individual Threshold - Unprocessible Entity”

##### 7.4.2.6.6 Notification endpoint REST resource test case
In order to test Notification endpoint specified in clause 3.4.4 of O-RAN.WG6.O2DMS-INTERFACE-ETSI-NFV- PROFILE [4], following test specified in Annex F.7 of ETSI GS NFV-TST 010 [6] shall be followed.
- Test ID 7.3.4.8.1 “VNF Performance Information Availability Notification”
- Test ID 7.3.4.8.2 “VNF Threshold Crossed Notification”


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG6.TS.O-Cloud-IM.0-R004-v05.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG6.TS.O-Cloud-IM.0-R004-v05.00 Technical Specification O-RAN Work Group 6 (Cloudification and Orchestration)"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms apply: Generalized Object This is a kind of object whereby specialized objects can be derived from. Specialized Object This is a kind of object which is derived from one or more Generalized Object(s).

## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:

## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the [following] abbreviations [given in ... and the following] apply: AAL Accelerator Abstraction Layer OIM O-Cloud Information Model

# 4 O-Cloud Information Model

## 4.1 Information Modeling Conventions

### 4.1.1 Modeling approach, Unified Modeling Language (UML)
The Information Model within O-Cloud Infrastructure shall use the Unified Modeling Language™ (UML®) version 2.5.1 [4] from the Object Management Group (OMG). The O-Cloud Infrastructure Information Model shall follow methodology documented in 3GPP TS 32.160 [i.1] Clause 5.2.

### 4.1.2 Namespaces in the Information Model

# A Namespace provides a container for named elements, which are called its members. A Namespace may also import named
elements from other specifications, in which case those elements become members of the importing Namespace.

### 4.1.3 Namespace Relationships

## 4.2 Information Model Definitions

### 4.2.1 Namespace: ORAN.O2ims.Inventory

#### 4.2.1.1 Namespace Overview
The O-RAN O2ims Inventory namespace defines the classes and their attributes which are directly exposed to the consumer (SMO) via its O2 IMS Interface. This namespace is used for O-Cloud infrastructure Resources. That content is meant only to be internally consumable to the O- Cloud. The O2ims Inventory has status, metrics and types as well as its topologies. These resources can be used to build up the O-Cloud Node Clusters and their compute, networking and storage capabilities.

#### 4.2.1.2 Imported and associated information entities

##### 4.2.1.2.1 Imported information entities and local labels
Information entities imported into the model are also elements of the namespace and therefore shall remain unique within the namespace. Label reference Local label TS 28.622 [6], information object class, Top Top

##### 4.2.1.2.2 Associated information entities and local labels
Information entities referenced in the model through an association which may be extended and overloaded with a new entity of the same name within the namespace are listed in the associated entities table. Label reference Local label WG10 IM/DM [2], PerformanceMeasureDictionary PerformanceMeasureDictionary WG10 IM/DM [2], PerformanceMeasureDefinition_ PerformanceMeasureDefinition WG10 IM/DM [2], AlarmDictionary AlarmDictionary WG10 IM/DM [2], AlarmDefinition AlarmDefinition WG10 IM/DM [2], ProbableCause ProbableCause 4.2.2.4.1, ArtifactResourceType ArtifactResourceType 4.2.2.4.1, ArtifactResource ArtifactResource 4.2.3.4.1, ClusterResourceType ClusterResourceType 4.2.3.4.2, ClusterResource ClusterResource 4.2.3.4.3, NodeClusterType NodeClusterType 4.2.3.4.4, NodeCluster NodeCluster 4.2.4.4.1, InfrastructureResourceType InfrastructureResourceType 4.2.4.4.2, InfrastructureResource InfrastructureResource

#### 4.2.1.3 Class Diagram

##### 4.2.1.3.1 Relationships
4.2.1.3.1.1 Description This clause depicts the set of classes (e.g. IOCs) that encapsulates the information relevant for the O-RAN Cloud (O-Cloud). This clause provides an overview of the relationships between relevant classes in UML. Subsequent clauses provide more detailed specification of various aspects of these classes. The UML Class diagram depicts a view of the namespace maintaining a defined focus so as not to overcrowd a single diagram trying to depict all relationships within the namespace. 4.2.1.3.1.2 O2ims Inventory Object Relationships The O2ims services have operations on the following managed service objects that are provided by the O-Cloud:
- OCloud,
- Location,
- OCloudSite,
- ResourceType,
- ResourcePool,
- Resource,
- DeploymentManager, and
- InventoryChangeSubscription
services. Figure 4.2.1.3.1.2-2 illustrates the relationship for the subscribe/notify pattern. 4.2.1.3.1.3 Infrastructure Monitoring Relationships 4.2.1.3.1.3.1 Infrastructure Fault Relationships The O2ims_InfrastructureMonitoring services has operations on the following managed service objects that are provided by the O-Cloud for faults:
- AlarmList
- AlarmSubscription
- LogQuery
fault services. 4.2.1.3.1.3.2 Infrastructure Performance Relationships The O2ims_InfrastructureMonitoring services follow a flow described in the O2 GAP[i.2] clause 3.9.9. This primarily consists of: 1) The Performance Measurement Store - used for storage and configuration of performance measurements. 2) The Performance Measurement Job - used to collect performance measurements and insert them into the Performance Measurement Store. 3) The Performance Subscription - used to identify what PerformanceMeasurementRecord(s) in the PeformanceMeasurementStore are reported, when they are reported, and how the report is to be delivered to the subscriber. 4) The Performance Measurement Report - The notification payload used to convey measurement values identified by a Performance Subscription to the identified subscriber in a format selected by the subscriber. The O2ims_InfrastuctureMonitoring information model have sub-components as follows:
- Performance Store
o PerformanceMeasurementStore o PerformanceMeasurementRecord
- Performance Jobs
o PerformanceMeasurementJob o MeasuredResource o CollectedMeasurement o PerformanceMeasurementJobChangeSubscription o PerformanceMeasurementJobChangeNotification
- Performance Subscriptions
o PerformanceSubscription o PerformanceReportingFrequency o PerformanceSubscriptionCriteria
- Performance Reports
o PerformanceMeasurementReport o JobReport o ResourceReport o MeasurementValue o NotifyFileReady o FileInfo PerformanceMeasurementRecord and other information entities. CollectedMeasurement, PerformanceMeasurementJobChangeSubscription and other information entities. PerformanceSubscriptionCriteria and other information entities. ResourceReport, MeasurementValue, NotifyFileReady, FileInfo and other information entities. 4.2.1.3.1.4 O-Cloud Networking Relationships 4.2.1.3.1.4.1 O-Cloud Networking Relationships Overview The O-Cloud Network provides seamless connectivity within an O-Cloud Site and facilitates external connectivity, such as transport network access, to various O-Cloud Resources. Clause 3.4.3 of the O-RAN.WG6.O2-GA&P [i.2] specification, outlines the fundamental concepts of the O-Cloud provisioning and defines these concepts at different layers. For instance, networking- related concepts such as O-Cloud Site Network Fabric (aka. SiteNWFabric) and O-Cloud Site Gateway (aka. SiteGW) can be defined at the hardware layer, which is related to that layers’ consumable constructs, and the networking-related concepts such as O-Cloud Site Network (aka. SiteNW), O-Cloud Gateway, and O-Cloud AttachmentCircuit can be defined at the execution environment layer as described in the O-RAN.WG6.O2-GA&P [i.2] spec. Also, there can be inter-namespace relationships for instance, Networking concept related to an O-Cloud Node Cluster such as, O-Cloud Node Cluster Site Network (aka. NodeClusterSiteNW) defined in ORAN.O2ims.Clusters namespace mapped to a SiteNW object and terminated by an O-Cloud Gateway object defined in ORAN.O2ims.Inventory namespace. An O-Cloud AttachmentCircuit as defined in O-RAN.WG6.O2-GA&P [i.2], clause 3.4.3.5.10 has two possible associations — one with an O-Cloud Gateway and another with the SiteNW. This accommodates the two scenarios where a SiteNW connects to the transport network through an O-Cloud Gateway or where a SiteNW connects directly to the transport network. There can also be the case that SiteNWs are only used for internal connectivity within an O-Cloud Site, in which case, there is no need to associate (neither directly, nor via an O-Cloud Gateway) a SiteNW to an O-Cloud AttachmentCircuit. Classes. Classes. 4.2.1.3.1.4.2 O-Cloud Networking Relationships View 4.2.1.3.1.4.2.1 Overview The O-RAN.WG6.O2-GA&P [i.2], clause 3.4.3.3 outlines fundamental concepts of the Resource View. For enabling separation of authority and operations, O-Cloud offers various types of resource views, in the form of different group of actors, some of them deals with hardware or more physical types of O-Cloud Resources whereas, others consume logical set of O-Cloud Resources. 4.2.1.3.1.4.2.2 Hardware Layer View The O-RAN.WG6.O2-GA&P [i.2], clause 3.4.3.4 explains the Hardware Layer concept, which forms the foundation of a cloud, comprising physical computes that are inter-connected through network fabric and routers for external connectivity. According to O-RAN.WG6.CADS [i.3], a Cloud Site hosts Cloud Infrastructure equipment, abstracting O-Cloud Resources for leasing through the IMS. From the SMO perspective, understanding hardware concepts focuses on O-Cloud Resource locations, capabilities, capacity, availability, and potential disturbances, rather than physical realization. 4.2.1.3.1.4.2.3 Execution Environment Layer View The O-RAN.WG6.O2-GA&P [i.2], clause 3.4.3.5 explains the Execution Environment Layer concept, which transforms hardware layer constructs into consumable O-Cloud Node(s), Site Network(s), Gateway(s), and many more, as abstract O-Cloud Resources available for leasing through the IMS. Classes

##### 4.2.1.3.2 Inheritance
4.2.1.3.2.1 O2ims Inventory Inheritance This subclause depicts the inheritance relationships of inventory object classes. This subclause depicts the inheritance relationships. 4.2.1.3.2.2 Infrastructure Monitoring Inheritance This subclause depicts the inheritance relationships of alarm and performance.

#### 4.2.1.4 Class Definitions

##### 4.2.1.4.1 OCloud
4.2.1.4.1.1 Definition The OCloud represents an instance of an O-Cloud. For more information about O-Cloud, refer to the "O-RAN O2 General Aspects and Principles Specification", clause 3.1 [i.2]. 4.2.1.4.1.2 Attributes Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties oCloudId Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Identifier of the O- readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True Cloud instance. Internally x-inventoryNotification: False generated within an O-Cloud x-stateChangeNotification: False instance. nullable: False format: uuid globalCloudId Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Identifier of the O- readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True Cloud instance assigned by the x-inventoryNotification: False SMO. This identifier is globally x-stateChangeNotification: False unique across O-Cloud instances nullable: False known to the SMO. This value format: uuid was provided by the SMO at cloud genesis and is stored in the O-Cloud IMS Inventory. name Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Human readable x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: True name of the O-Cloud as x-stateChangeNotification: False identified by the SMO at cloud nullable: False genesis. description Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Human readable x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: True description of the O-Cloud as x-stateChangeNotification: False provided by the SMO at cloud nullable: False genesis. infrastructureManage Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M mentServicesEndPoi nt Description: The URI root to all x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: True services provided by the O2ims x-stateChangeNotification: False interface. Inventory is one of nullable: False these services. resourceTypes Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: List of Resource x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: False types. x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False x-isOrdered: False minItems: 1 uniqueItems: True items: ResourceTyp e Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties locations Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: List of locations x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification True where O-Cloud Sites are x-stateChangeNotification: False deployed or can be deployed. nullable: False x-isOrdered: False minItems: 1 uniqueItems: True items: Location oCloudSites Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: List of O-Cloud x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: True Sites that are known by the IMS x-stateChangeNotification: False and need to be exposed to the nullable: False SMO for Homing. x-isOrdered: False minItems: 1 uniqueItems: True items: OCloudSite deploymentManagers Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: List of Deployment x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: False managers. x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False x-isOrdered: False minItems: 1 uniqueItems: True items: DeploymentM anager smoRegistrationServi Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M ce Description: IP address x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: True endpoint or the URL of the SMO. x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False format: uri extensions Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: These are readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False unspecified (not standardized) x-inventoryNotification: False properties (keys) which are x-stateChangeNotification: False tailored by the vendor to extend nullable: True the information provided about x-isOrdered: False minItems: 0 the O-Cloud. uniqueItems: True items: AttributeVa luePair 4.2.1.4.1.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.2.1.4.1.4 State diagram None.

##### 4.2.1.4.2 ResourceType
4.2.1.4.2.1 Definition The ResourceType represents a resource type in an O-Cloud. Resource types provide the categorization of O-Cloud Nodes as described in the O-RAN Cloud Architecture and Deployment Scenarios [i.3] specification. The values for these types are used to build the inventory and enable an authorized consumer to track resource changes over time. The O-Cloud provides a mechanism to discover the resource types with respective operations on resource types. 4.2.1.4.2.2 Attributes Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties resourceTypeId Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Identifier of the readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True resource type. x-inventoryNotification: False x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False format: uuid name Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Name of the resource readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False type as identified by the cloud x-inventoryNotification: True provider. x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False description Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Human readable readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False description of the resource type. x-inventoryNotification: True x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False vendor Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Name of the provider of readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True the resource type. x-inventoryNotification: False x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False model Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Information about the readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True model of the resource type x-inventoryNotification: False x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False version Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Version or generation readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True of the resource type. x-inventoryNotification: False x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False alarmDictionaryId Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Identifier of the readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True associated dictionary of alarms that x-inventoryNotification: False can be generated by the resource x-stateChangeNotification: False type. If no alarms are reported nullable: True against a resource of this format: uuid resourceType then the Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties alarmDictionaryId is set to null. performanceDictionary Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Id Description: Identifier of the readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True associated dictionary of performance x-inventoryNotification: False measurements that can be collected x-stateChangeNotification: False for the resource type. If the resource nullable: True of this resourceType does not provide format: uuid any measurements then the performanceDictionaryId is set to null. resourceKind Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: A value describing the readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True "physicality" of the resource type. x-inventoryNotification: False x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False enum:
- UNDEFINED
- PHYSICAL
- LOGICAL
resourceClass Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: A value describing the readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True functional role within the cloud for the x-inventoryNotification: False resource type. x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False The list of resource classes is not enum: exhaustive, additional classes will be - UNDEFINED assessed on a case by case basis. - COMPUTE
- NETWORKING
- STORAGE
extensions Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: These are unspecified readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True (not standardized) properties (keys) x-inventoryNotification: False which are tailored by the vendor to x-stateChangeNotification: False extend the information provided nullable: True about the Resource Type. x-isOrdered: False minItems: 0 uniqueItems: True items: AttributeVa luePair 4.2.1.4.2.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.2.1.4.2.4 State diagram None.

##### 4.2.1.4.3 ResourcePool
4.2.1.4.3.1 Definition The ResourcePool represents a resource pool instance in an O-Cloud. The O-Cloud is a distributed cloud with resources placed in different locations. Those resources are organized into resource pools. There can be more than one resource pool for a given O-Cloud at the same physical location. However, each resource pool requires a different identity since the SMO will direct a deployment based on homing policies to a specific location. This is different than typical cloud deployments as location is key to meeting latency requirements, sometime to elements outside of the O-Cloud.
> NOTE 1: The identity of a resource pool cannot be tied to a specific resource within the pool as that resource may be
replaced as part of the O-Cloud lifecycle.
> NOTE 2: The resource pool is described in the Cloud Architecture and Deployment Secnarios Technical Report [i.3] but
may not be needed for exposure through the Information Model and subsequent O2 IMS interface. 4.2.1.4.3.2 Attributes Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties resourcePoolId Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Identifier of the readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True resource pool. Locally unique x-inventoryNotification: False within the scope of an O-Cloud x-stateChangeNotification: False instance. nullable: False format: uuid name Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Human readable readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False name of the resource pool. x-inventoryNotification: True x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False oCloudSiteId Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Identifier of the O- readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False Cloud site the resource pool is a x-inventoryNotification: False part of. x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False format: uuid description Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Human readable readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False description of the resource pool. x-inventoryNotification: True x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False resources Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: List of resource IDs readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False that are part of the resource x-inventoryNotification: True pool. x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False x-isOrdered: False minItems: 1 uniqueItems: True items: string extensions Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: These are readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False unspecified (not standardized) x-inventoryNotification: False properties (keys) which are x-stateChangeNotification: False tailored by the vendor to extend nullable: True the information provided about x-isOrdered: False minItems: 0 the Resource Pool. uniqueItems: True items: Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties AttributeVa luePair 4.2.1.4.3.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.2.1.4.3.4 State diagram None.

##### 4.2.1.4.4 Resource
4.2.1.4.4.1 Definition The Resource represents an instance of a resource in the O-Cloud. Resource pools are comprised of resources, wherein a specific instance of a resource can only be part of a single resource pool. Resources are of a specific resource type. The resource type of a given resource instance does not change over the lifetime of such a resource instance. The Resource is a Specialized Object that derives from a Generalized Object, the InfrastructureInventoryObject_. The Resource inherits the attributes from the InfrastructureInventoryObject_. 4.2.1.4.4.2 Attributes Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties resourceId Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Identifier of the readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True resource. Locally unique within x-inventoryNotification: False the scope of an O-Cloud x-stateChangeNotification: False instance. nullable: False format: uuid description Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Human readable readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False description of the resource. x-inventoryNotification: True x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False resourceTypeId Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Reference to the readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True resource type of the resource. x-inventoryNotification: False x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False format: uuid globalAssetId Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Identifier or serial readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True number of the resource, if x-inventoryNotification: False available. It is required only if the x-stateChangeNotification: False resource has been identified nullable: True during its addition to the cloud as a reportable asset in the SMO Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties inventory. resourcePoolId Data Type: string support-qualifier: M Description: Reference to the readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True resource pool that the resource x-inventoryNotification: False is part of. x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False format: uuid elements Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: The resource might readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False be composed of smaller x-inventoryNotification: True resources or other resource x-stateChangeNotification: False instances of a different type. nullable: True x-isOrdered: False minItems: 0 uniqueItems: True items: Resource tags Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M x-isInvariant: False Description: Keywords x-inventoryNotification: False x-stateChangeNotification: False describing or classifying the nullable: True resource instance. x-isOrdered: False minItems: 0 uniqueItems: True items: string groups Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M x-isInvariant: False Description: Keywords denoting x-inventoryNotification: False x-stateChangeNotification: False groups a resource belongs to. nullable: True x-isOrdered: False minItems: 0 uniqueItems: True items: string extensions Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: These are readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False unspecified (not standardized) x-inventoryNotification: False properties (keys) which are x-stateChangeNotification: False tailored by the vendor to extend nullable: True the information provided about x-isOrdered: False minItems: 0 the Resource. uniqueItems: True items: AttributeVa luePair 4.2.1.4.4.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.2.1.4.4.4 State diagram None.

##### 4.2.1.4.5 DeploymentManager
4.2.1.4.5.1 Definition The DeploymentManager represents an instance of a DMS in the O-Cloud. This class allows a client to discover the details about a DMS instance. This class provides a list of supported capabilities, and metrics for total capacity, current allocations, current reservations. For more information about DMS, refer to "O-RAN O2 General Aspects and Principles Specification, clause 1.3.1 "[i2]. The available capacity information supported by a DeploymentManager shall be calculated as Capacity - Allocated - Reserved. 4.2.1.4.5.2 Attributes Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties deploymentManagerI Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M d Description: Identifier of the readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True deployment manager. Locally x-inventoryNotification: False unique within the scope of an O- x-stateChangeNotification: False Cloud instance. nullable: False format: uuid name Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Human readable readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False name of the deployment x-inventoryNotification: True manager as identified by the x-stateChangeNotification: False cloud provider. nullable: False description Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Human readable readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False description of the deployment x-inventoryNotification: True manageras populated by the x-stateChangeNotification: False cloud provider. nullable: False oCloudId Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Reference to the readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True O-Cloud associated to the x-inventoryNotification: True deployment manager. x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False format: uuid deploymentManagem Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M entServiceEndpoint Description: Endpoint to access readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False the management services of the x-inventoryNotification: True deployment manager. x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False format: uri supportedLocations Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: List of readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False globalLocationIDs that were x-inventoryNotification: True assigned to resource pools that x-stateChangeNotification: False resources allocated to the nullable: False service instance belong to. x-isOrdered: False minItems: 1 uniqueItems: True items: string capabilities Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties Description: Information about readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False the capabilities supported by this x-inventoryNotification: True set of deployment management x-stateChangeNotification: False services based on the resources nullable: True allocated to the service instance. x-isOrdered: False minItems: 0 uniqueItems: True items: AttributeVa luePair capacity Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: Information about readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False the available, allocated and x-inventoryNotification: True reserved O-Cloud resources x-stateChangeNotification: False capacity allocated to the nullable: True deployment manager. x-isOrdered: False minItems: 0 uniqueItems: True items: AttributeVa luePair extensions Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: These are readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False unspecified (not standardized) x-inventoryNotification: False properties (keys) which are x-stateChangeNotification: False tailored by the vendor to extend nullable: True the information provided about x-isOrdered: False minItems: 0 the Resource Type. uniqueItems: True items: AttributeVa luePair 4.2.1.4.5.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.2.1.4.5.4 State diagram None.

##### 4.2.1.4.6 InventorySubscription
4.2.1.4.6.1 Definition The InventorySubscription represents an instance of a subscription to infrastructure inventory notifications for when an InfrastructureInventoryObject_ within the inventory changes. Subscriptions are required for a notification to be generated. Information about the change is provided to the consumer when the consumers specified criteria is met. The absence of a filter means all events are sent. 4.2.1.4.6.2 Attributes Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties subscriptionId Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties Description: Identifier of the readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True subscription. Locally unique x-inventoryNotification: False within the scope of an O-Cloud x-stateChangeNotification: False instance. nullable: False format: uuid callback Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: The URL of the x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: False callback to which notifications x-stateChangeNotification: False are delivered to. nullable: False format: uri consumerSubscriptio Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M nId Description: The consumer may x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: False provide its identifier for tracking, x-stateChangeNotification: False routing, or identifying the nullable: True subscription used to report the event. filter Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Criteria for events x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: False which do not need to be reported x-stateChangeNotification: False or will be filtered by the nullable: True subscription notification service. Therefore, if a filter is not provided then all events are reported. 4.2.1.4.6.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.2.1.4.6.4 State diagram None.

##### 4.2.1.4.7 InfrastructureInventoryObject_
4.2.1.4.7.1 Definition The InfrastructureInventoryObject_ is an abstract class which shall be implemented by one of its specific sub-classes. The InfrastructureInventoryObject_ does not have any common attributes. The InfrastructureInventoryObject_ is a Generalized Object for which specializations of this class, Specialized Object classes, can be included in a change notification. 4.2.1.4.7.2 Attributes This class does not provide any attributes. 4.2.1.4.7.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.2.1.4.7.4 State diagram None.

##### 4.2.1.4.8 InfrastructureInventoryEvent <<notification>>
4.2.1.4.8.1 Definition The InfrastructureInventoryEvent is sent to consumers with an accepted subscription request and a filter criterion matching the content of the InfrastructureInventoryEvent attributes. This event can be triggered by change to an attribute in any subclass of the InfrastructureInventoryObject_ in which the property for x-inventoryNotification: or x-stateChangeNotification is “True”.
> NOTE: It is up to the protocol and data model specification to determine the one or various protocol operations enabling
the notification service to invoke the specified callback procedure. Referenced Specification Requirement Comment [3] [3] The information representing InfrastructureInventoryEvent shall follow the provisions indicated in table 4.2.1.4.8.2-1. 4.2.1.4.8.2 Attributes Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties consumerSubscriptio Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M nId Description: The consumer may readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True provide its identifier for tracking, x-inventoryNotification: False routing, or identifying the x-stateChangeNotification: False subscription used to report the nullable: False event. notificationEventType Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: The type readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False (CREATE, MODIFY, DELETE) of x-inventoryNotification: False event being reported x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False format: enum enum:
- CREATE
- MODIFY
- DELETE
objectRef Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: The resultant readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False reference to the object on which x-inventoryNotification: False the action occurred. x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: True format: url priorObjectState Data Type: x-support-qualifier: M InfrastructureInventoryObject readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True Description: If the Event type is x-inventoryNotification: False 'MODIFY' or 'DELETE' this this x-stateChangeNotification: False field will be populated with a nullable: True copy of the object prior to the Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties event. postObjectState Data Type: x-support-qualifier: M InfrastructureInventoryObject readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True Description: If the Event type is x-inventoryNotification: False 'CREATE' or 'MODIFY' this this x-stateChangeNotification: False field will be populated with a nullable: True copy of the object after the event. 4.2.1.4.8.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.2.1.4.8.4 State diagram None.

##### 4.2.1.4.9 OCloudAvailableNotification <<notification>>
4.2.1.4.9.1 Definition Although the Genesis lifecycle event precedes the existence of the O2ims in the O-Cloud there is a minimal set of data expected to be provided from the SMO to the process. This information is retained in the O-Cloud and is used to register the O-Cloud with the SMO once it becomes usable. Data expected to be included with the callback URI in the genesis data is the globalCloudId, each globalLocationId, and each globalAssetId for infrastructure at those locations. Once enough of the O- Cloud is discovered, provisioned and is available for additional provisioning or workload deployments, the O-Cloud shall send the O-CloudAvailableNotification to the consumer (SMO), thus registering its InfrastructureManagementServiceEndPoint with the SMO. After receiving the notification, the SMO will interogate the InfrastructureInventory APIs to account for corporate assets and discover the DMS service endpoints to allow workloads to be deployed.
> NOTE: It is up to the protocol and data model specification to determine the one or various protocol operations enabling
the notification service to invoke the specified callback procedure. Referenced Specification Requirement Comment [3] The information representing OCloudAvailableNotification shall follow the provisions indicated in table 4.2.1.4.9.2-1. 4.2.1.4.9.2 Attributes Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties globalCloudId Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Identifier of the O- readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True Cloud instance assigned by the x-inventoryNotification: False SMO. This identifier is globally x-stateChangeNotification: False unique across O-Cloud instances nullable: False known to the SMO. This value format: uuid was provided by the SMO at cloud genesis and is stored in the O-Cloud IMS Inventory. Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties oCloudId Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Identifier of the O- readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True Cloud instance. Unique within an x-inventoryNotification: False O-Cloud instance. x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False format: uuid IMS_EP Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: URL to the readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True resource within the O-Cloud for x-inventoryNotification: False other attributes. x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False format: uri 4.2.1.4.9.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.2.1.4.9.4 State diagram None.

##### 4.2.1.4.10 AlarmEventRecord <<dataType>>
4.2.1.4.10.1 Definition The AlarmEventRecord represents a stored instance of an alarm detected within the O-Cloud Resources and stored by the IMS. The AlarmEventRecord can represent either a current active alarm or one that occurred in the past. Retention of an AlarmEventRecord is dependent on IMS configuration which would be set through an IMS Provisioning service. Referenced Specification Requirement Comment [3] [3] 4.2.1.4.10.2 Attributes Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties alarmEventRecordId Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Identifier of an readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True entry in the AlarmEventRecord. x-inventoryNotification: False Locally unique within the scope x-stateChangeNotification: False of an O-Cloud instance. nullable: False format: uuid objectTypeId Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: A reference to the readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True type of resource which caused x-inventoryNotification: False the alarm. This could be from x-stateChangeNotification: False any namespace (e.g., a nullable: False resourceTypeId in the inventory format: uuid namespace, or a nodeClusterTypeId in the cluster Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties namespace). The objectClass attribute identifies which class of object is being referenced. objectId Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: A reference to the readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True resource instance which caused x-inventoryNotification: False the alarm. This could be from x-stateChangeNotification: False any namespace (e.g., a nullable: False resourceId in the inventory format: uuid namespace, or a nodeClusterId in the cluster namespace). The objectClass attributes identifies which class of object is being referenced. objectClass Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: The name of the readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True class of the object being x-inventoryNotification: False referenced by the objectId x-stateChangeNotification: False attribute. This includes the nullable: False namespace and class name of example: the object being referenced to “oran.o2ims.cluster.ClusterResource” disambiguate it from other objects in the same namespace as well as objects in other namespaces. From this a client can infer the type of objectType referenced by the objectTypeId attribute. alarmDefinitionId Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: A reference to the readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True Alarm Definition record in the x-inventoryNotification: False Alarm Dictionary associated with x-stateChangeNotification: False the referenced Object Type. nullable: False probableCauseId Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: A reference to the readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True ProbableCause of the Alarm. x-inventoryNotification: False x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False alarmRaisedTime Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: This field is readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True populated with a Date/Time x-inventoryNotification: False stamp value when the x-stateChangeNotification: False AlarmEventRecord is created. nullable: False format: date-time alarmChangedTime Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: This field is readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False populated with a Date/Time x-inventoryNotification: True stamp value when any value of x-stateChangeNotification: False the AlarmEventRecord is nullable: False modified. format: date-time alarmClearedTime Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: This field is readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties populated with a Date/Time x-inventoryNotification: False x-stateChangeNotification: True stamp value when the alarm nullable: True condition is cleared. format: date-time alarmAcknowledgeTi Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M me Description: This field is readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False populated with a Date/Time x-inventoryNotification: False stamp value when the alarm x-stateChangeNotification: True condition is acknowledged. nullable: True format: date-time alarmAcklnowledged Data Type: boolean x-support-qualifier: M Description: This is a Boolean x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: False value defaulted to False. When a x-stateChangeNotification: True system acknowledges an alarm, default: False it is then set to True. perceivedSeverity Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: This is an x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: True enumerated set of values which x-stateChangeNotification: False identify the perceived severity of nullable: False the alarm. enum:
- CRITICAL
- MAJOR
- MINOR
- WARNING
- INDETERMINATE
- CLEARED
extensions Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: Unspecified (not x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: False standardized) properties (keys) x-stateChangeNotification: False which are tailored by the vendor nullable: True or operator to extend the x-isOrdered: False information provided about the minItems: 0 uniqueItems: True O-Cloud Alarm. items: AttributeVa luePair 4.2.1.4.10.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.2.1.4.10.4 State diagram None.

##### 4.2.1.4.11 AlarmEvent <<notification>>
4.2.1.4.11.1 Definition The AlarmEvent represents a notification of an Alarm sent by the IMS to a registered Subcriber for a fault detected within an O-Cloud Resources. The AlarmEvent can represent either a new alarm, a change of occurrence, or state change of an existing alarm. Referenced Specification Requirement Comment [3] 4.2.1.4.11.2 Attributes Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties globalCloudId Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Identifier of the O- readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True Cloud instance assigned by the x-inventoryNotification: False SMO. This identifier is globally x-stateChangeNotification: False unique across O-Cloud instances nullable: False known to the SMO. This value format: uuid was provided by the SMO at cloud genesis and is stored in the O-Cloud IMS Inventory. consumerSubscriptio Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M nID Description: Identifier provided readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True by the subscriber for event to x-inventoryNotification: False subscription traceability within x-stateChangeNotification: False the consumer realm. nullable: False alarmNotificationType Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: This is an readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True enumerated set of values which x-inventoryNotification: False identify the type of notification x-stateChangeNotification: False being sent to the subscriber. nullable: False enum:
- NEW
- CHANGE
- CLEAR
- ACKNOWLEDGE
objectRef Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: This is a URL entry readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True to the AlarmEventRecord for this x-inventoryNotification: False notification within the AlarmList x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False format: url alarmEventRecord Data Type: AlarmEventRecord x-support-qualifier: M Description: This is a copy of readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True the AlarmEventRecord x-inventoryNotification: False associated with this event x-stateChangeNotification: False preventing the need for the alarm nullable: False consumer to do a read after the notification is received. 4.2.1.4.11.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.2.1.4.11.4 State diagram None.

##### 4.2.1.4.12 AlarmSubscription
4.2.1.4.12.1 Definition The AlarmSubscription represents a consumer wishing to be notified when specified alarm conditions occur. The AlarmSubscription can be filtered by criteria based on the type of notification of fields of the AlarmEventRecord. Referenced Specification Requirement Comment [3] [3] 4.2.1.4.12.2 Attributes Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties alarmSubscriptionId Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Identifier of the readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True subscription. Locally unique x-inventoryNotification: False within the scope of an O-Cloud x-stateChangeNotification: False instance. nullable: False format: uuid consumerSubscriptio Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M nID Description: The consumer may x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: False provide its identifier for tracking, x-stateChangeNotification: False routing, or identifying the nullable: True subscription used to report the event if a value was provided in the SubscriptionRequest. filter Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Criteria for events x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: False which do not need to be reported x-stateChangeNotification: False or will be filtered by the nullable: False subscription notification service. enum: Therefore, if a filter is not - NEW provided then all events are - CHANGE
- CLEAR
reported.
- ACKNOWLEDGE
callback Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: The URI of the x-isInvariant: True x-inventoryNotification: False callback to which notifications x-stateChangeNotification: False are delivered to. nullable: False format: url 4.2.1.4.12.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.2.1.4.12.4 State diagram None.

##### 4.2.1.4.13 AlarmList
4.2.1.4.13.1 Definition The AlarmList represents the configuration parameters of the AlarmList and the list of AlarmEventRecords currently maintained in the O-Cloud. Referenced Specification Requirement Comment [3] [3] 4.2.1.4.13.2 Attributes Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties retentionPeriod Data Type: integer x-support-qualifier: M Description: Specifies the x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: False number of days to retain x-stateChangeNotification: False cleared/acknowledge alarms in nullable: False the AlarmList. Entries in the x-units: Days alarmEventRecords will be at minimum: 0 least as long as the retentionPeriod but can be longer depending on the implementation of the purge feature. alarmEventRecords Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: The readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False alarmEventRecords provides the x-inventoryNotification: True storage array for x-stateChangeNotification: True AlarmEventRecords that are nullable: False active or have been cleared but minItems: 0 not purged according to the uniqueItems: True items: implementation of the purge feature. AlarmEventR ecord extensions Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: These are x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: False unspecified properties (keys and x-stateChangeNotification: False values) which can be tailored to nullable: True control the behaviour of the x-isOrdered: False Alarm List. minItems: 0 uniqueItems: True items: AttributeVa luePair 4.2.1.4.13.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.2.1.4.13.4 State diagram None.

##### 4.2.1.4.14 PerformanceMeasurementStore
4.2.1.4.14.1 Definition The PerformanceMeasurementStore represents the O-Cloud internal store where PerformanceMeasurementRecord(s) are retained according to the retention policy of the O-Cloud based on the configured retention period. Referenced Specification Requirement Comment CASES [3] The information representing the attributes of the PerformanceMeasurementStore follows the provisions indicated in table 4.2.1.4.14.2-1. 4.2.1.4.14.2 Attributes Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties retentionPeriod Data Type: integer x-support-qualifier: M Description: The number in x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: False days (24 hours) that x-stateChangeNotification: False measurements will be retained. nullable: False The exact timing of when format: uInteger measurements are deleted are x-units: days minimum: 0 implementation dependent. measurements Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: List of readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True PerformanceMeasurementRecor x-inventoryNotification: False d(s) collected and stored in the x-stateChangeNotification: False performance measurement nullable: False store. minItems: 0 uniqueItems: True items: Performance Measurement Record extensions Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M x-isInvariant: False Description: These are x-inventoryNotification: False x-stateChangeNotification: False unspecified properties (keys and nullable: True values) which can be tailored to x-isOrdered: False control the behaviour of the minItems: 0 Performance Service. uniqueItems: True items: AttributeVa luePair 4.2.1.4.14.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.2.1.4.14.4 State diagram None.

##### 4.2.1.4.15 PerformanceMeasurementRecord <<dataType>>
4.2.1.4.15.1 Definition The PerformanceMeasurementRecord represents a collected measurement in the PerformanceMeasurementStore. The information representing the attributes of the PerformanceMeasurementRecord follows the provisions indicated in table 4.2.1.4.15.2-1. 4.2.1.4.15.2 Attributes Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties performanceMeasure Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M mentJobId Description: The job identifier readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True assigned by the O-Cloud when a x-inventoryNotification: False performance measurement job is x-stateChangeNotification: False created. nullable: False format: uuid resourceId Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: The resource readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True identifier for the resource for x-inventoryNotification: False which the collected x-stateChangeNotification: False measurement is against. nullable: False format: uuid performanceMeasure Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M mentDefinitionId Description: The Performance readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True Dictionary definition identifier for x-inventoryNotification: False the collected measurement. x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False timeStamp Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: The date and time readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False in which the measurement was x-inventoryNotification: False collected. x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False format: date-time measurementValue Data Type: Any type x-support-qualifier: M Description: The value of the readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True measurement collected. The x-inventoryNotification: False ValueType represents a variety x-stateChangeNotification: False of types depending on the nullable: False measurement type. isSuspect Data Type: boolean x-support-qualifier: M Description: This flag is set to readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False True if anomalous behaviour was x-inventoryNotification: False detected on the resource during x-stateChangeNotification: False the last collection interval. nullable: True 4.2.1.4.15.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.2.1.4.15.4 State diagram None.

##### 4.2.1.4.16 PerformanceMeasurementJob
4.2.1.4.16.1 Definition The PerformanceMeasurementJob represents a process established to collect measurements and place them in the PerformanceMeasurementStore. The information representing the attributes of the PerformanceMeasurementJob follows the provisions indicated in table 4.2.1.4.16.2-1. For attributes with x-inventoryNotification: set to True or x-stateChangeNotification set to True, the notification to be sent will be the PerformanceMeasurementJobChangeNotification. Referenced Specification Requirement Comment [3] [3] 4.2.1.4.16.2 Attributes Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties performanceMeasure Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M mentJobId Description: Identifier of the readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True performance job instance within x-inventoryNotification: False the IMS. This value is assigned x-stateChangeNotification: False by the IMS when the job is nullable: False created format: uuid consumerPerformanc Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M eJobId Description: Identifier optionally x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: True provided by the consumer for its x-stateChangeNotification: False purpose of managing nullable: True performance jobs. This value could be the same across multiple instances of IMS performance job instances. state Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: The current state readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False of the x-inventoryNotification: False PerformanceMeasurementJob. x-stateChangeNotification: True nullable: False enum:
- ACTIVE
- SUSPENDED
- DEPRECATED
collectionInterval Data Type: integer x-support-qualifier: M Description: The interval at x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: True which performance x-stateChangeNotification: False measurements will be collected nullable: False x-units: Seconds Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties and stored. minimum: 0 default: 300 resourceScopeCriteri Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M a Description: Key value pairs of x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: True resource attributes which are x-stateChangeNotification: False used to select resources from nullable: False which measures are to be x-isOrdered: False collected. minItems: 0 uniqueItems: True This criterion determines, the items: AttributeValuePair value set for the Qualified example: Resource Types. [ {"resourceTypeId","[ "7c491f8f-7207-4c00-9b67-3d2ee8b008f0", "31040dec-8106-44db-83bc-62e1d618ea17" ]"} ] measurementSelectio Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M nCriteria Description: Key value pairs x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: True that identify the distinct set of x-stateChangeNotification: False measurements within the scope nullable: False of a x-isOrdered: False PerformanceMeasurementJob. minItems: 1 uniqueItems: True items: AttributeValuePair example: [ {"measurementGroup","MemoryUsage"}, {"measurementName","cpuAverageUtilization"} ] status Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: The current status readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False within the state. x-inventoryNotification: False x-stateChangeNotification: True nullable: False enum:
- RUNNING
- FAILED
- DEGRADED
- IDLE
- PENDING_DELETE
preinstalledJob Data Type: boolean x-support-qualifier: M Description: This is an indicator readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True if the performance job was x-inventoryNotification: False created for the IMS (True) or as x-stateChangeNotification: False the result of an IMS consumer nullable: False request (False) qualifiedResourceTyp Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M es readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: True x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False x-isOrdered: False minItems: 0 uniqueItems: True items: uuid example:’[ "7c491f8f-7207-4c00-9b67-3d2ee8b008f0", "31040dec-8106-44db-83bc-62e1d618ea17" ]’ Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties Description: This list is computed from evaluation of the resourceScopeCriteria. The resulting qualifiedResourceTypes are the distinct set of ResourceTypes among those measuredResources. This list of resource type UUIDs is used to qualify collectedMeasurements defined in the PM Dictionary of the qualified resource types. measuredResources Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M readOnly: True Description: This is the x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: True historical list of resources x-stateChangeNotification: False measured by this job. Resources nullable: False added and deleted are kept track x-isOrdered: False of for the life of the job. minItems: 0 uniqueItems: True items: MeasuredResource collectedMeasureme Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M nts Description: The historical list of readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False measurements that are or have x-inventoryNotification: True been collected by this job based x-stateChangeNotification: False on its resourceScopeCriteria and nullable: False measurementSelectionCriteria x-isOrdered: False minItems: 0 over the life of the job. uniqueItems: True items: CollectedMeasurement extensions Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: These are x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: True unspecified (not standardized) x-stateChangeNotification: False properties (key/value) which nullable: True extend the information about the x-isOrdered: False Performance Measurement Job. minItems: 0 uniqueItems: True items: AttributeValuePair 4.2.1.4.16.3 Attribute constraints Name Definition Status is RUNNING, FAILED, or Condition: Job is in the ACTIVE state. DEGRADED Status is IDLE Condition: Job is in the SUSPENDED state. Status is PENDING_DELETE Condition: Job is in the DEPRECATED state. WriteableExtensions Condition: preInstalledJob is False then extensions can be created and updated. ReadOnlyExtensions Condition: preInstalledJob is True then extensions, if present are read only. 4.2.1.4.16.4 State diagram

##### 4.2.1.4.17 MeasuredResource <<datatype>>
4.2.1.4.17.1 Definition The MeasuredResource represents a Resource that is or has been within the scope of a PerformanceMeasurementJob. The information representing the attributes of the MeasuredResource follows the provisions indicated in table 4.2.1.4.17.2-1. 4.2.1.4.17.2 Attributes Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties resourceTypeId Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: The resource readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True identifier assigned by the O- x-inventoryNotification: False Cloud when a performance x-stateChangeNotification:False measurement job is created. nullable: False format: uuid resourceId Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: The resource readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True identifier for the resource for x-inventoryNotification: False which the collected x-stateChangeNotification: False measurement is against. nullable: False format: uuid timeAdded Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: List of timestamps readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False when the resource was added to x-inventoryNotification: False the job. All resources shall have x-stateChangeNotification: False at least one timeAdded value. It nullable: False could have multiple if changes minItems: 1 caused a deletion and uniqueItems: True items: date-time subsequent reinstatement to occur. timeDeleted Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: List of timestamps readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False when the resource was deleted x-inventoryNotification: False from a job. Multiple values may x-stateChangeNotification: False be present if deletion occurred at nullable: True different times. The effective minItems: 0 uniqueItems: True Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties period of the measurement items: date-time would be the times between a timeAdded and timeDeleted values. isCurrentlyMeasured Data Type: boolean x-support-qualifier: M Description: Indicates if the readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False resource is currently being x-inventoryNotification: False measured by the contained x-stateChangeNotification: False performance job. nullable: False 4.2.1.4.17.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.2.1.4.17.4 State diagram None.

##### 4.2.1.4.18 CollectedMeasurement <<datatype>>
4.2.1.4.18.1 Definition The CollectedMeasurement represents a measurement associated with a specific ResourceType that is or has been within the scope of a PerformanceMeasurementJob. The information representing the attributes of the CollectedMeasurement follows the provisions indicated in table 4.2.1.4.18.2- 1. 4.2.1.4.18.2 Attributes Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties resourceTypeId Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: The resource readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True identifier assigned by the O- x-inventoryNotification: False Cloud when a performance x-stateChangeNotification: False measurement job is created. nullable: False format: uuid performanceMeasure Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M mentDefinitionId Description: Identifier of the readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True measurement definition with the x-inventoryNotification: False PM Dictionary for the specific x-stateChangeNotification: False device type identified by the nullable: False resourceTypeId. format: uuid timeAdded Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: List of timestamps readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True when the resource was added to x-inventoryNotification: False the job. All measurements shall x-stateChangeNotification: False have at least one timeAdded nullable: False value. It could have multiple if minItems: 1 changes caused a deletion and uniqueItems: True items: date-time subsequent reinstatement to Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties occur. timeDeleted Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: List of timestamps readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False when the measurement was x-inventoryNotification: False deleted from a job. Multiple x-stateChangeNotification: False values may be present if deletion nullable: True occurred at different times. The minItems: 0 effective period of the uniqueItems: True items: date-time measurement would be the times between a timeAdded and timeDeleted values. isCurrentlyMeasured Data Type: boolean x-support-qualifier: M Description: Indicates if the readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True resource is currently being x-inventoryNotification: False measured by the contained x-stateChangeNotification: False performance job. nullable: False 4.2.1.4.18.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.2.1.4.18.4 State diagram None.

##### 4.2.1.4.19 PerformanceMeasurementJobChangeSubscription
4.2.1.4.19.1 Definition The PerformanceMeasurementJobChangeSubscription represents a subscription for events to be notified such as when the scope of a PerformanceMeasurementJob changes either due to an update to its criteria or a change in inventory, or updates to other attributes (e.g. collection interval, state, status). The information representing the attributes of the PerformanceJobChangeSubscription follows the provisions indicated in table 4.2.1.4.19.2-1. 4.2.1.4.19.2 Attributes Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties performanceMeasure Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M mentJobChangeSubs criptionId Description: Identifier of the readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True PerformanceMeasurementJobCh x-inventoryNotification: False angeSubscription which will x-stateChangeNotification: False generate this notification. nullable: False format: uuid consumerPerformanc Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M eMeasurementJobCh angeSubscriptionId Description: The consumer x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: True identification value if provided on x-stateChangeNotification: False the nullable: True PerformanceMeasurementJobCh angeSubscription which will Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties generate this notification. performanceChanges Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M ToNotify Description: The enumerated x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: False set of values representing the x-stateChangeNotification: False type(s) of changes to resources nullable: False and/or measurements desired to enum: be notified about (ADD, - ADD
- DELETE
DELETE, BOTH).
- BOTH
detailsToInclude Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: The enumerated x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: False set of values representing how x-stateChangeNotification: False much detail about the change to nullable: False to resources and/or enum: measurements include in the - NONE notification (NONE, DELTA, - DELTA
- COMPLETE
COMPLETE). subscriptionJobFilter Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: A key value set of x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: False criteria to select which jobs shall x-stateChangeNotification: False be reported on. nullable: False x-isOrdered: True minItems: 0 uniqueItems: True items: AttributeVa luePair callback Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: URL to which the x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: False PerformanceMeasurementJobCh x-stateChangeNotification: False angeNotification will be sent. nullable: False format: uri 4.2.1.4.19.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.2.1.4.19.4 State diagram None.

##### 4.2.1.4.20 PerformanceMeasurementJobChangeNotification <<notification>>
4.2.1.4.20.1 Definition The PerformanceMeasurementJobChangeNotification notification represents the information about a change that occurred to a PerformanceMeasurementJob due to an update to its criteria or a change in inventory or updates to other attributes (e.g. collection interval, state, status) for which there is a PerformanceMeasurementJobChangeSubscription established. The information representing the attributes of the PerformanceMeasurementJobChangeNotification follows the provisions indicated in table 4.2.1.4.20.2-1. 4.2.1.4.20.2 Attributes Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties performanceMeasure Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M mentJobChangeSubs criptionId Description: Identifier of the readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True PerformanceMeasurementJobCh x-inventoryNotification: False angeSubscription. x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False format: uuid consumerPerformanc Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M eMeasurementJobCh angeSubscriptionId Description: The consumer readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True identification value if provided on x-inventoryNotification: False the x-stateChangeNotification: False PerformanceMeasurementJobCh nullable: True angeSubscription. performanceMeasure Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M mentJobId Description: The UUID of the readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True PerformanceMeasurementJob x-inventoryNotification: False that incurred a change due to a x-stateChangeNotification: False change in scope criteria, a nullable: False change to O-Cloud Infrastructure format: uuid Inventory, a change to collection interval, a change to state and/or status, or a change to the extensions. objectRef Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: The URL of the readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False service object which was x-inventoryNotification: False modified. x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False format: uri typeOfChange Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: The enumerated readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False value representing the type of x-inventoryNotification: False changes to resources and/or x-stateChangeNotification: False measurements included in the nullable: False notification. enum:
- ADD
- DELETE
- BOTH
resourceChangeDeta Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M ils Description: If the subscription readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False criteria indicates DELTA or x-inventoryNotification: False COMPLETE extended x-stateChangeNotification: False information then all relevant nullable: True added and/or deleted resources minItems: 0 uniqueItems: True to the job are listed. x-isOrdered: True items: MeasuredRes ource measurementChange Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Details Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties Description: If the subscription readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False criteria indicates DELTA or x-inventoryNotification: False COMPLETE extended x-stateChangeNotification: False information then all relevant nullable: True added and/or deleted minItems: 0 measurements of the uniqueItems: True x-isOrdered: True performance measurement job items: are listed. CollectedMe asurement consumerPerformanc Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M eJobId Description: Identifier provided readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False by the consumer for its purpose x-inventoryNotification: False of managing performance jobs. x-stateChangeNotification: False This value could be the same nullable: True across multiple instances of IMS performance job instances. collectionInterval Data Type: integer x-support-qualifier: M Description: The interval at readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False which performance x-inventoryNotification: False measurement will be collected x-stateChangeNotification: False and stored. nullable: True x-units: Seconds minimum: 0 default: 300 state Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: The current state readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False of the x-inventoryNotification: False PerformanceMeasurementJob. x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: True enum:
- ACTIVE
- SUSPENDED
- DEPRECATED
status Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: The current status readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False within the state. x-inventoryNotification: False x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: True enum:
- RUNNING
- FAILED
- DEGRADED
- IDLE
- PENDING_DELETE
extensions Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: These are readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False unspecified (not standardized) x-inventoryNotification: False properties (key/value) which x-stateChangeNotification: False extend the information about the nullable: True Performance Measurement Job x-isOrdered: False minItems: 0 uniqueItems: True items: AttributeVa luePair 4.2.1.4.20.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.2.1.4.20.4 State diagram None.

##### 4.2.1.4.21 PerformanceSubscription
4.2.1.4.21.1 Definition The PerformanceSubscription represents the information required to establish the criteria by which a PerformanceMeasurementReport notification is to be generated and where to send that notification. Referenced Specification Requirement Comment [3] [3] The information representing the attributes of the PerformanceSubscription follows the provisions indicated in table 4.2.1.4.21.2-1. 4.2.1.4.21.2 Attributes Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties performanceSubscrip Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M tionId Description: Identifier of the readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True performance subscription x-inventoryNotification: False instance within the IMS. This x-stateChangeNotification: False value is assigned by the IMS nullable: False when the subscription is created. format: uuid consumerPerformanc Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M eSubscriptionId Description: Identifier optionally x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: False provided by the consumer for its x-stateChangeNotification: False purpose of managing nullable: True performance data. This value could be the same across multiple instances of IMS subscription instances. globalSubscriptionCrit Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M eria Description: This is subscription x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: False criteria which will apply to each x-stateChangeNotification: False contained subscription. nullable: False x-isOrdered: False minItems: 0 uniqueItems: True items: Performance Subscriptio nCriteria reportFormat Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties Description: Enumerated set of x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: False reporting mechanism for delivery x-stateChangeNotification: False of the data identified by the nullable: False PerformanceSubscription which enum: are identified as: - NOTIFICATION
- FILE
NOTIFICATION: Call the - STREAM callback with the data at the specified intervals providing the data, e.g., in JSON format FILE: generate a file, e.g., formatted in XML to be collected and call the callback with the filename whenever one is generated. STREAM: Session will remain open and continue to send the data in a streaming format, e.g., Google Protocol Buffers (GPB), at the specified intervals until the session or subscription is terminated. remoteFileLocation Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: When the x-isInvariant: False reportFormat is FILE this field is x-inventoryNotification: False x-stateChangeNotification: False populated with the URL to the nullable: True remote directory where the Format: uri service is expected to push the requested performance files to a remote files system. If the reportFormat is not FILE, the field is empty or not present. callback Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: The callback to x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: False send responses for modes x-stateChangeNotification: False NOTIFICATION, or the file nullable: True notification for FILE. The field is Format: uri not required if mode is STREAM. measurementReporti Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M ngFrequencies Description: The frequency that x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: False specified measurements are to x-stateChangeNotification: False be reported. nullable: False x-isOrdered: False minItems: 1 uniqueItems: True items: Performance ReportingFr equency 4.2.1.4.21.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.2.1.4.21.4 State diagram None.

##### 4.2.1.4.22 PerformanceReportingFrequency <<datatype>>
4.2.1.4.22.1 Definition The PerformanceReportingFrequency represents the frequency that specified measurements are to be reported. The information representing the attributes of the PerformanceReportingFrequency follows the provisions indicated in table 4.2.1.4.22.2-1. 4.2.1.4.22.2 Attributes Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties subscriptionCriteria Data Type: x-support-qualifier: M PerformanceSubscriptionCriteria x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: False Description: This is subscription x-stateChangeNotification: False criteria which will apply to this nullable: True subscription. subscriptionMode Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: An enumerated set x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: False of values which will identify the x-stateChangeNotification: False mode in which data is reported. nullable: False The valid values are as follows: enum: TARGET_DEFINED: - TARGET_DEFINED Producer of the PM - ON_CHANGE
- SAMPLE
data decides if ON_CHANGE or SAMPLE is more optimal. ON_CHANGE: Value is reported as soon as the PM Job collects it. SAMPLE: Value is reported at the reportInterval period. reportInterval Data Type: integer x-support-qualifier: M Description: This is the x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: False reporting interval for the data, it x-stateChangeNotification: False is an unsigned integer nullable: True representing the number of minimum: 0 milliseconds between reports. If default: 0 the reportInterval is lower than x-units: milliseconds the service can provide the subscription shall return an error indicating such. If the value is set to zero (0) then the service will use its lowest supported value for the reportInterval. Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties supressRedundant Data Type: boolean x-support-qualifier: M Description: This flag identifying x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: False if SAMPLE values that have not x-stateChangeNotification: False changed shall (False) or shall nullable: True Not (True) be transmitted. default: False heartbeatInterval Data Type: integer x-support-qualifier: M Description: When the x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: False suppressRedundant is set to x-stateChangeNotification: False (True), if heartbeatInterval is a nullable: True non-zero value then a duplicate minimum: 0 value will be sent at least once default: 0 per heatbeatInterval. The value x-units: milliseconds shall be zero (0) or a value greater than or equal to the reportInterval. 4.2.1.4.22.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.2.1.4.22.4 State diagram None.

##### 4.2.1.4.23 PerformanceSubscriptionCriteria <<datatype>>
4.2.1.4.23.1 Definition The PerformanceSubscriptionCriteria represents the information required to establish which measurements for which resource shall be included in a PerformanceMeasurementReport. The information representing the attributes of the PerformanceSubscriptionCriteria follows the provisions indicated in table 4.2.1.4.23.2-1. 4.2.1.4.23.2 Attributes Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties jobCriteria Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: Key/Value list of x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: False criteria compared to Job data. x-stateChangeNotification:False nullable: True minItems: 0 uniqueItems: True items: AttributeVa luePair resourceTypeCriteria Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: Key/Value list of x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: False criteria compared to Resource x-stateChangeNotification: False Type data. nullable: True minItems: 0 uniqueItems: True items: Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties AttributeVa luePair resourceCriteria Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: Key/Value list of x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: False criteria compared to Resource x-stateChangeNotification: False data. nullable: True minItems: 0 uniqueItems: True items: AttributeVa luePair measurementCriteria Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: Key/Value list of x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: False criteria compared to x-stateChangeNotification:False Measurement Definition data. nullable: True minItems: 0 uniqueItems: True items: AttributeVa luePair 4.2.1.4.23.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.2.1.4.23.4 State diagram None.

##### 4.2.1.4.24 PerformanceMeasurementReport <<notification>>
4.2.1.4.24.1 Definition The PerformanceMeasurementReport notification represents the information required to define the scope of the JobReports being sent in the notification. Referenced Specification Requirement Comment [3] The information representing the attributes of the PerformanceMeasurementReport follows the provisions indicated in table 4.2.1.4.24.2-1. 4.2.1.4.24.2 Attributes Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties globalCloudId Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Identifier of the O- readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True Cloud instance assigned by the x-inventoryNotification: False SMO. This identifier is globally Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties unique across O-Cloud instances x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False known to the SMO. This value format: uuid was provided by the SMO at cloud genesis and is stored in the O-Cloud IMS Inventory. notificationTime Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: The date and time readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True that the notification was sent. x-inventoryNotification: False x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False format: date-time performanceSubscrip Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M tionId Description: Identifier of the readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True performance subscription x-inventoryNotification: False instance within the IMS. This x-stateChangeNotification: False value is assigned by the IMS nullable: False when the job is created. format: uuid consumerPerformanc Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M eSubscriptionId Description: Identifier optionally readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False provided by the consumer for its x-inventoryNotification: False purpose of managing x-stateChangeNotification: False performance data. This value nullable: True could be the same across multiple instances of IMS subscription instances. jobReports Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: The list of readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False performance reports by jobId. A x-inventoryNotification: False single subscription can subscribe x-stateChangeNotification: False to measurements collected by nullable: False multiple jobs. x-isOrdered: False minItems: 1 uniqueItems: True items: JobReport 4.2.1.4.24.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.2.1.4.24.4 State diagram None.

##### 4.2.1.4.25 JobReport <<datatype>>
4.2.1.4.25.1 Definition The JobReport provides the list of performance reports generated from corresponding PerformanceMeasurementJobs. A single subscription can be used to subscribe to measurements collected by multiple PerformanceManagementJobs. The data from the PerformanceMeasurementJobs are aggregated into a single report per PerformanceSubscription. The information representing the attributes of the JobReport follows the provisions indicated in table 4.2.1.4.25.2-1. 4.2.1.4.25.2 Attributes Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties performanceJobId Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: The UUID of the readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True PerformanceMeasurementJob x-inventoryNotification: False from which collected x-stateChangeNotification: False measurements are reported. nullable: False format: uuid consumerJobId Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Identifier provided readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False by the consumer for its purpose x-inventoryNotification: False of managing performance jobs. x-stateChangeNotification: False This value could be the same nullable: False across multiple instances of IMS performance job instances. measuredResources Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: The list of collected readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False measurements for each x-inventoryNotification: False Resource within the scope of the x-stateChangeNotification: False subscription to be included in this nullable: False PerformanceMeasurementRepor minItems: 1 items: ResourceReport t. 4.2.1.4.25.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.2.1.4.25.4 State diagram None.

##### 4.2.1.4.26 ResourceReport <<datatype>>
4.2.1.4.26.1 Definition The ResourceReport dataType represents the information required to identify the resource for which a set of measurements are being reported in the notification. The information representing the attributes of the ResourceReport follows the provisions indicated in table 4.2.1.4.26.2-1. 4.2.1.4.26.2 Attributes Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties resourceId Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: The UUID of the readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False Resource as specified in x-inventoryNotification: False Infrastructure Inventory. x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False format: uuid measurementValues Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M readOnly: True Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties Description: The list of collected x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: False measurements for the Resource x-stateChangeNotification: False within the subscription included nullable: False in this minItems: 1 PerformanceMeasurementRepor uniqueItems: True t. items: MeasurementValue 4.2.1.4.26.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.2.1.4.26.4 State diagram None.

##### 4.2.1.4.27 MeasurementValue <<datatype>>
4.2.1.4.27.1 Definition The MeasurementValue dataType represents the information about a collected measurement and its value to be included in a notification. The information representing the attributes of the MeasurementValue follows the provisions indicated in table 4.2.1.4.27.2-1. 4.2.1.4.27.2 Attributes Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties performanceMeasure Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M mentId Description: Based on encoding readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False this value can be either a string x-inventoryNotification: False consisting of the x-stateChangeNotification: False performanceMeasureName of nullable: False the MeasurementDefinition in the Performance Dictionary for the Resource Type or an unsigned integer consisting of the performanceMeasurementId of the MeasurementDefinition. measurementCollecti Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M onTime Description: If present, this is readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False the value that is added to the x-inventoryNotification: False PerformanceMeasurementStore. x-stateChangeNotification: False When omitted then the nullable: True notificationTime is assumed to format: date-time the time the value was added to the PerformanceMeasurementStore as would be the case if the subscriptionMode equated to ON_CHANGE. measurementValue Data Type: Any type x-support-qualifier: M Description: This is the actual readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False value of the measurement which x-inventoryNotification: False varies in type from measurement x-stateChangeNotification: False Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties to measurement. nullable: False isSuspect Data Type: boolean x-support-qualifier: M Description: This flag is set to readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False True if anomalous behavior was x-inventoryNotification: False detected on the resource x-stateChangeNotification: False between this measurement value nullable: True and a prior measurement value. default: False 4.2.1.4.27.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.2.1.4.27.4 State diagram None.

##### 4.2.1.4.28 NotifyFileReady <<notification>>
4.2.1.4.28.1 Definition The NotifyFileReady notification represents the information about one (1) or more files to be made available to a subscriber when the reportFormat of a PerformanceSubscription is FILE or a LogQuery when a callback is supplied. This notification only makes the consumer aware of the file and does not predicate delivery of the file (push or pull). The information representing the attributes of the NotifyFileReady follows the provisions indicated in table 4.2.1.4.28.2-1. 4.2.1.4.28.2 Attributes Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties globalCloudId Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Identifier of the O- readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True Cloud instance assigned by the x-inventoryNotification: False SMO. This identifier is globally x-stateChangeNotification: False unique across O-Cloud instances nullable: False known to the SMO. This value format: uuid was provided by the SMO at cloud genesis and is stored in the O-Cloud IMS Inventory. subscriptionId Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: When the readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True notification is created due to a x-inventoryNotification: False PerformanceSubscription this x-stateChangeNotification: False attribute will contain the identifier nullable: True of the performanceSubscriptionId format: uuid for this notification. consumerSubscriptio Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M nId Description: When the readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False notification is created due to a x-inventoryNotification: False PerformanceSubscription this x-stateChangeNotification: False attribute will contain the identifier nullable: True provided by the consumer for its purpose of managing performance data and may be Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties included in the PerformanceSubscription. If the notification is due to a logQuery request this attribute shall provide the consumerLogRequestId when provided on the request to allow the consumer to correlate it to the original request. eventTime Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: The date and time readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False that the notification was issued. x-inventoryNotification: False x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False format: date-time fileInfoList Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: The list of readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False information about one or more x-inventoryNotification: False files included in this notification. x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False minItems: 1 uniqueItems: True items: FileInfo 4.2.1.4.28.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.2.1.4.28.4 State diagram None.

##### 4.2.1.4.29 FileInfo <<datatype>>
4.2.1.4.29.1 Definition The FileInfo dataType represents information about one or more generated files collected by a producer and which are now available to a consumer. The information representing the attributes of the FileInfo follows the provisions indicated in table 4.2.1.4.29.2-1. 4.2.1.4.29.2 Attributes Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties fileLocation Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Location of the file readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: False x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False format: uri fileSize Data Type: integer x-support-qualifier: M Description: Size of the file, unit readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties is byte x-inventoryNotification: False x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False format: int32 minimum: 0 x-units: bytes fileReadyTime Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Date and time readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False when the file was last closed and x-inventoryNotification: False made available by the producer. x-stateChangeNotification: False The file content will not be nullable: False changed any more format: date-time fileExpirationTime Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Date and time after readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False which the file may be deleted. x-inventoryNotification: False x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False format: date-time fileCompression Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: If compression is readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True applied to the file, the name of x-inventoryNotification: False the compression algorithm used x-stateChangeNotification: False for compressing the file. nullable: True fileDataType Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: An enumerated set readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True of values identifying the type of x-inventoryNotification: False data contained in the file. The x-stateChangeNotification: False valid set of values are described nullable: False as follows: enum: PERFORMANCE: The file - PERFORMANCE
- ANALYTIC
contains a
- LOG
PerformanceMeasureme ntReport. ANALYTIC: The file contains analytic data. LOG: The file contains log entries identified in a logQuery request. 4.2.1.4.29.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.2.1.4.29.4 State diagram None.

##### 4.2.1.4.30 Location
4.2.1.4.30.1 Definition The Location represents an instance of a Location where an O-Cloud Site may be available. 4.2.1.4.30.2 Attributes Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties globalLocationId Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Identifier of the readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True location as defined by the SMO. x-inventoryNotification: False x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False name Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Human readable readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False name of the location as defined x-inventoryNotification: True by the SMO. x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False description Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Human readable readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False description of the location as x-inventoryNotification: True defined by the SMO. x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False oCloudId Data Type: string support-qualifier: M Description: Reference to the readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True O-Cloud available at the location. x-inventoryNotification: False x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False format: uuid oCloudSiteIds Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M readOnly: True Description: List of O-Cloud x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification True Site identifiers referencing the O- x-stateChangeNotification: False Cloud Sites available at the nullable: True location. x-isOrdered: False minItems: 0 uniqueItems: True items: string coordinate Data Type: string support-qualifier: M Description: The latitude and readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True longitude of the location (shall be x-inventoryNotification: False supplied if a postal address not x-stateChangeNotification: False provided). nullable: True address Data Type: string support-qualifier: M Description: Postal address of readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True the facility (shall be supplied if a x-inventoryNotification: False coordinate is not provided). x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: True extensions Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: These are readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False unspecified (not standardized) x-inventoryNotification: False properties (keys) which are x-stateChangeNotification: False tailored by the vendor to extend nullable: True the information provided about x-isOrdered: False minItems: 0 the location. uniqueItems: True items: AttributeVa Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties luePair 4.2.1.4.30.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.2.1.4.30.4 State diagram None.

##### 4.2.1.4.31 OCloudSite
4.2.1.4.31.1 Definition The OCloudSite represents an O-Cloud Site instance in an O-Cloud, as described in the O-RAN Cloud Architecture and Deployment Scenarios specification [i.3]. 4.2.1.4.31.2 Attributes Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties oCloudSiteId Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Identifier of the O- readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True Cloud site. Locally unique within x-inventoryNotification: False the scope of an O-Cloud x-stateChangeNotification: False instance. nullable: False format: uuid locationId Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Reference to readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True location where the O-Cloud site x-inventoryNotification: False is deployed at. x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False format: uuid name Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Human readable readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False name of the O-Cloud site as x-inventoryNotification: True identified by the cloud provider. x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False description Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Human readable readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False description of the O-Cloud site x-inventoryNotification: True as provided by the cloud x-stateChangeNotification: False provider. nullable: False oCloudId Data Type: string support-qualifier: M Description: Reference to the readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True O-Cloud of which the O-Cloud x-inventoryNotification: False site is part. x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False format: uuid resourcePools Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties Description: List of resource readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False pools that are part of the O- x-inventoryNotification: True Cloud site. x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False x-isOrdered: False minItems: 1 uniqueItems: True items: ResourcePoo l extensions Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: These are readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False unspecified (not standardized) x-inventoryNotification: False properties (keys) which are x-stateChangeNotification: False tailored by the vendor to extend nullable: True the information provided about x-isOrdered: False minItems: 0 the O-Cloud site. uniqueItems: True items: AttributeVa luePair 4.2.1.4.31.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.2.1.4.31.4 State diagram None.

##### 4.2.1.4.32 LogQuery
4.2.1.4.32.1 Definition The LogQuery represents a request for O-Cloud log files for specific resources or resource of specific ResourceTypes to be collected and made available to the requestor. 4.2.1.4.32.2 Attributes Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties logType Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: This identifies the x-isInvariant: False type of log(s) to be collected. x-inventoryNotification: False x-stateChangeNotification: False The exact list of valid log types to nullable: False be discovered via a log capability discovery. dateRanges Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: list of date ranges x-isInvariant: False that log data is to be extracted x-inventoryNotification: False x-stateChangeNotification: False and placed into the log file for nullable: False collection. minItems: 1 items: DateRange eventTypes Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties Description: List of event types x-isInvariant: False that are to be extracted and x-inventoryNotification: True x-stateChangeNotification: False placed in the log file for nullable: True collection. The exact list of valid minItems: 0 event types are to be discovered items: string via a log capability discovery. resources Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M x-isInvariant: False Description: list of resource x-inventoryNotification: False selection criteria to identify which x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: True resources are in scope for the minItems: 0 query. items: AttributeVa luePair resourceTypes Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M x-isInvariant: False Description: list of x-inventoryNotification: False resourceType selection criteria to x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: True identify which resources minItems: 0 matching the resourceTypes are items: in scope for the query. AttributeVa luePair logLevels Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: List of logging x-isInvariant: False levels that are to be extracted x-inventoryNotification: True x-stateChangeNotification: False and placed in the log file for nullable: True collection. The log levels minItems: 0 specified in Clause 6.2.1, Table items: string of IETF RFC 5424 [5] shall be supported by the O-Cloud instance. remoteFileLocation Data Type: string support-qualifier: M Description: When the service x-isInvariant: False is expected to push to a remote x-inventoryNotification: False x-stateChangeNotification: False file system, this field is populated nullable: True with the URL to the remote format: uri directory, otherwise the field is empty or not present. callback Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: The URL of the x-isInvariant: False callback to which asynchronous x-inventoryNotification: False x-stateChangeNotification: False notifications are delivered to. nullable: True format: uri consumerLogReques Data Type: string tId x-support-qualifier: M Description: Identifier optionally x-isInvariant: False provided by the consumer for its x-inventoryNotification: False x-stateChangeNotification: False purpose of tracking a request for nullable: True log data. 4.2.1.4.32.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.2.1.4.32.4 State diagram None.

##### 4.2.1.4.33 DateRange <<dataType>>
4.2.1.4.33.1 Definition The DateRange represent a start and end date and time value to indicate a span of time. 4.2.1.4.33.2 Attributes Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties startDateTime Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: This identifies the x-isInvariant: False start of a time range. x-inventoryNotification: False x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False format: date-time endDateTime Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: This identifies the x-isInvariant: False x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False format: date-time 4.2.1.4.33.3 Attribute constraints Name Definition START_PRECEDES_END Condition: startDateTime shall chronologically precede the endDateTime. . 4.2.1.4.33.4 State diagram None.

### 4.2.2 Namespace: ORAN.O2ims.Artifacts

#### 4.2.2.1 Namespace Overview
The O-RAN O2ims Artifacts namespace defines the classes and their attributes which are directly exposed to the consumer (SMO) via its O2 IMS Interface. This namespace is used for the O-Cloud artifacts e.g. Cluster Templates, Initial Configuration Sets, OS/SW/FW, etc. that e.g. The O-Cloud artifacts can be used for configuring O-Cloud Resources from the Inventory and Cluster namespaces. The artifacts are not consumed when they are used and can be referenced in the Inventory, Cluster and Provisioning structures.

#### 4.2.2.2 Imported and associated information entities

##### 4.2.2.2.1 Imported information entities and local labels
Information entities imported into the model are also elements of the namespace and therefore shall remain unique within the namespace. Label reference Local label

##### 4.2.2.2.2 Associated information entities and local labels
Information entities referenced in the model through an association which may be extended and overloaded with a new entity of the same name within the namespace are listed in the associated entities table. Label reference Local label

##### 4.2.1.2.1 Top Top
4.2.1.4.7, InfrastructureInventoryObject_ InfrastructureInventoryObject_

#### 4.2.2.3 Class Diagram

##### 4.2.2.3.1 Relationships
4.2.2.3.1.1 Description This clause depicts the set of classes (e.g. IOCs) that encapsulates the information relevant for the O-RAN Cloud (O-Cloud). This clause provides an overview of the relationships between relevant classes in UML. Subsequent clauses provide more detailed specification of various aspects of these classes. The UML Class diagram depicts a view of the namespace maintaining a defined focus so as not to overcrowd a single diagram trying to depict all relationships within the namespace. 4.2.2.3.1.2 ORAN.O2ims.Artifacts Intra-Namespace Relationships 4.2.2.3.1.3 ORAN.O2ims.Artifacts Inter-Namespace Relationships

##### 4.2.2.3.2 Inheritance
4.2.2.3.2.1 ORAN.O2ims.Artifacts Inheritance

#### 4.2.2.4 Class Definitions

##### 4.2.2.4.1 ArtifactResourceType
4.2.2.4.1.1 Definition The ArtifactResourceType represents a resource type for a stored artifact resource in an O-Cloud. Artifact resource types provide the categorization of O-Cloud artifacts used as declarative templates or binary images for provisioning or deployment. The values for these types are used to build the inventory with provisioning enablers. The O- Cloud provides a mechanism to discover data about artifacts with respective operations on artifact resource types. The ArtifactResourceType is a Specialized Object that derives from a Generalized Object, the InfrastructureInventoryObject_. The ArtifactResourceType inherits the attributes from the InfrastructureInventoryObject_ and allows it and all specializations of this class to be included in a change notification. 4.2.2.4.1.2 Attributes Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties artifactResourceTypeId Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Cloud unique x-isInvariant: True identifier for the artifact type. x-inventoryNotification: True x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False format: uuid name Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Human readable x-isInvariant: True name for the artifact type. x-inventoryNotification: False x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False description Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Description of the x-isInvariant: True artifact type. x-inventoryNotification: False x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False extensions Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: These are x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: False unspecified (not standardized) x-stateChangeNotification: False properties (keys) which are nullable: True tailored by the vendor to extend x-isOrdered: False the information provided about minItems: 0 uniqueItems: True the artifact resource type. items: Attri buteValuePair 4.2.2.4.1.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.2.2.4.1.4 State diagram None.

##### 4.2.2.4.2 ArtifactResource
4.2.2.4.2.1 Definition The ArtifactResource represents a stored artifact resource in an O-Cloud. ArtifactResource provides the ability to expose information about the artifact that is needed by consumers without the need of parsing the artifact itself by the consumer. The O-Cloud provides a mechanism to discover new artifacts with respective operations on artifact resources. The ArtifactResource is a Specialized Object that derives from a Generalized Object, the InfrastructureInventoryObject_. The ArtifactResource inherits the attributes from the InfrastructureInventoryObject_ and allows it and all specializations of this class to be included in a change notification. 4.2.2.4.2.2 Attributes Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties artifactResourceId Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: O-Cloud unique x-isInvariant: True identifier for the artifact. x-inventoryNotification: True x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False format: uuid name Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Human readable x-isInvariant: True name of the artifact. x-inventoryNotification: False x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False version Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Version of the x-isInvariant: True artifact. x-inventoryNotification: False x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False description Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Description of the x-isInvariant: True artifact. x-inventoryNotification: False x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False parameterSchema Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: Properties (keys) readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False which are tailored by the artifact x-inventoryNotification: False composition when it is to be used x-stateChangeNotification: False as a parameterized template. nullable: True See NOTE. x-isOrdered: False minItems: 0 uniqueItems: True items: Attri buteValuePair
> NOTE: Since the ArtifactResource is generic for any kind of artifact at an information model level, no keys are
specified since this would have dependency on the kind of resource to which the artifact applies. 4.2.2.4.2.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.2.2.4.2.4 State diagram None.

### 4.2.3 Namespace: ORAN.O2ims.Cluster

#### 4.2.3.1 Namespace Overview
The O-RAN O2ims Cluster namespace defines the classes and their attributes which are directly exposed to the consumer (SMO) via its O2 IMS Interface. This namespace is used for the provisioned O-Cloud Node Clusters with status and metrics as well as its internal topologies. The O-Coud Node Clusters are assembled based on the ORAN.O2ims.Inventory objects and configured through ORAN.O2ims.Artifacts.

#### 4.2.3.2 Imported and associated information entities

##### 4.2.3.2.1 Imported information entities and local labels
Information entities imported into the model are also elements of the namespace and therefore shall remain unique within the namespace. Label reference Local label

##### 4.2.3.2.2 Associated information entities and local labels
Information entities referenced in the model through an association which may be extended and overloaded with a new entity of the same name within the namespace are listed in the associated entities table. Label reference Local label

##### 4.2.1.4.7 InfrastructureInventoryObject_ InfrastructureInventoryObject_

#### 4.2.3.3 Class Diagram

##### 4.2.3.3.1 Relationships
4.2.3.3.1.1 Description This clause depicts the set of classes (e.g. IOCs) that encapsulates the information relevant for the O-RAN Cloud (O-Cloud). This clause provides an overview of the relationships between relevant classes in UML. Subsequent clauses provide more detailed specification of various aspects of these classes. The UML Class diagram depicts a view of the namespace maintaining a defined focus so as not to overcrowd a single diagram trying to depict all relationships within the namespace. 4.2.3.3.1.2 ORAN.O2ims.Cluster Intra-Namespace Relationships 4.2.3.3.1.3 ORAN.O2ims.Cluster Inter-Namespace Relationships

##### 4.2.3.3.2 Inheritance
4.2.3.3.2.1 ORAN.O2ims.Cluster Inheritance

#### 4.2.3.4 Class Definitions

##### 4.2.3.4.1 NodeClusterType
4.2.3.4.1.1 Definition The NodeClusterType represents a resource type for a NodeCluster in an O-Cloud. Node cluster types provide the categorization of O-Cloud resource types used to create a node cluster. The O-Cloud provides a mechanism to discover the node cluster types with respective operations on node cluster types. The NodeClusterType is a Specialized Object that derives from a Generalized Object, the InfrastructureInventoryObject_. The NodeClusterType inherits the attributes from the InfrastructureInventoryObject_ and allows it and all specializations of this class to be included in a change notification. 4.2.3.4.1.2 Attributes Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties NodeClusterTypeId Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Unique identifier x-isInvariant: True x-inventoryNotification: True for the NodeClusterType x-stateChangeNotification: False instance. nullable: False format: uuid name Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Name of the Node x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: True Cluster Type. x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False description Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Human readable x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: True description of the Node Cluster x-stateChangeNotification: False Type. nullable: False Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties extensions Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: These are x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: False unspecified (not standardized) x-stateChangeNotification: False properties (keys) which are nullable: True tailored extend the information x-isOrdered: False provided about the Node Cluster minItems: 0 uniqueItems: True Type. items: AttributeVa luePair 4.2.3.4.1.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.2.3.4.1.4 State diagram None.

##### 4.2.3.4.2 NodeCluster
4.2.3.4.2.1 Definition The NodeCluster represents a set if resource used to deploy workloads in an O-Cloud. Node cluster provides inventory of the resources used in a NodeCluster. The O-Cloud provides a mechanism to discover the node cluster with respective operations on node clusters. The NodeCluster is a Specialized Object that derives from a Generalized Object, the InfrastructureInventoryObject_. The NodeCluster inherits the attributes from the InfrastructureInventoryObject_ and allows it and all specializations of this class to be included in a change notification. 4.2.3.4.2.2 Attributes Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties nodeClusterId Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Unique identifier readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True for the NodeCluster instance x-inventoryNotification: True assigned by the O-Cloud. x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False format: uuid clientNodeClusterId Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Unique identifier x-isInvariant: True x-inventoryNotification: True for the NodeCluster instance x-stateChangeNotification: False assigned by the consumer who nullable: False requested its creation. name Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Name of the x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: True NodeCluster. x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False description Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Human readable x-isInvariant: False Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties description of the NodeCluster. x-inventoryNotification: True x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False extensions Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: These are x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: False unspecified (not standardized) x-stateChangeNotification: False properties (keys) which are nullable: True tailored extend the information x-isOrdered: False provided about the NodeCluster. minItems: 0 uniqueItems: True items: AttributeVa luePair clusterDistributionDes Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M cription Description: Human readable readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False text identifying the method of x-inventoryNotification: True distribution of ClusterResources x-stateChangeNotification: False over O-Cloud Sites. nullable: False NodeClusterTypeId Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Identifier for the x-isInvariant: True x-inventoryNotification: True NodeClusterType that this x-stateChangeNotification: False NodeCluster is. nullable: False format: uuid artifactResourceId Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Identifier for the readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True template artifact which this x-inventoryNotification: True NodeCluster is based on. x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False format: uuid clusterResourceIds Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: The list of cluster x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: True resource identifiers that are used x-stateChangeNotification: False to construct this NodeCluster. nullable: False x-isOrdered: False minItems: 1 uniqueItems: True items: string format: uuid clusterResourceGrou Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M ps Description: Optional list node x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: True groups that comprise the cluster x-stateChangeNotification: False resources which compose the nullable: True NodeCluster. x-isOrdered: False minItems: 0 uniqueItems: True items: string format: uuid 4.2.3.4.2.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.2.3.4.2.4 State diagram None.

##### 4.2.3.4.3 ClusterResourceType
4.2.3.4.3.1 Definition The ClusterResourceType represents a resource type for a ClusterResource in an O-Cloud. Cluster resource types provide the categorization of O-Cloud resource types used to create a node cluster. The O-Cloud provides a mechanism to discover the cluster resource types with respective operations on cluster resource types. The ClusterResourceType is a Specialized Object that derives from a Generalized Object, the InfrastructureInventoryObject_. The ClusterResourceType inherits the attributes from the InfrastructureInventoryObject_ and allows it and all specializations of this class to be included in a change notification. 4.2.3.4.3.2 Attributes Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties clusterResourceTypeI Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M d Description: Unique identifier x-isInvariant: True x-inventoryNotification: True for the ClusterResourceType x-stateChangeNotification: False instance. nullable: False format: uuid name Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Name of the x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: True Cluster Resource Type. x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False description Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Human readable x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: True description of the Cluster x-stateChangeNotification: False Resource Type. nullable: False extensions Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: These are x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: False unspecified (not standardized) x-stateChangeNotification: False properties (keys) which are nullable: True tailored extend the information x-isOrdered: False provided about the Cluster minItems: 0 uniqueItems: True Resource Type. items: AttributeVa luePair 4.2.3.4.3.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.2.3.4.3.4 State diagram None.

##### 4.2.3.4.4 ClusterResource
4.2.3.4.4.1 Definition The ClusterResource represents a resource used to construct a NodeCluster in an O-Cloud. Node cluster resource provides inventory of the resources used in a NodeCluster. The O-Cloud provides a mechanism to discover the node cluster resources with respective operations on node cluster resources. The ClusterResource is a Specialized Object that derives from a Generalized Object, the InfrastructureInventoryObject_. The ClusterResource inherits the attributes from the InfrastructureInventoryObject_ and allows it and all specializations of this class to be included in a change notification. 4.2.3.4.4.2 Attributes Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties clusterResourceId Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Unique identifier x-isInvariant: True x-inventoryNotification: True for the ClusterResource x-stateChangeNotification: False instance. nullable: False format: uuid name Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Name of the x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: True cluster resource. x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False description Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Human readable x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: True description of the cluster x-stateChangeNotification: False resource. nullable: False extensions Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: These are x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: False unspecified (not standardized) x-stateChangeNotification: False properties (keys) which are nullable: True tailored extend the information x-isOrdered: False provided about the Cluster minItems: 0 uniqueItems: True Resource. items: AttributeVa luePair clusterResourceTypeI Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M d Description: Identifier for the readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True ClusterResourceType for this x-inventoryNotification: True resource. x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False format: uuid memberOf Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: list of other readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False ClusterResources which are x-inventoryNotification: True linked together. x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: True x-isOrdered: False minItems: 0 uniqueItems: True items: string Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties artifactResourceIds Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: Identifiers for the x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: True artifact(s) which this resource is x-stateChangeNotification: False based on. nullable: True x-isOrdered: False minItems: 0 uniqueItems: True items: string format: uuid resourceId Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Identifier for the readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True inventory resource which this x-inventoryNotification: True resource is mapped to. x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False format: uuid 4.2.3.4.4.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.2.3.4.4.4 State diagram None.

##### 4.2.3.4.5 ClusterResourceGroup
4.2.3.4.5.1 Definition The ClusterResourceGroup represents a collection of ClusterResources as a named set. 4.2.3.4.5.2 Attributes Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties clusterResourceGrou Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M pId Description: Unique identifier x-isInvariant: True x-inventoryNotification: True for the ClusterResourceGroup. x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False format: uuid name Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Name of the Node x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: True Group. x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False description Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Human readable x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: True description of the x-stateChangeNotification: False ClusterResourceGroup. nullable: False extensions Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: These are x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: False unspecified (not standardized) x-stateChangeNotification: False Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties properties (keys) which are nullable: True x-isOrdered: False tailored extend the information minItems: 0 provided about the uniqueItems: True ClusterResourceGroup. items: AttributeVa luePair clusterResources Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: The list of Cluster readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False Resources belonging to this x-inventoryNotification: True ClusterResourceGroup. x-stateChangeNotification: False x-isOrdered: False minItems: 1 uniqueItems: True items: string format: uuid 4.2.3.4.5.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.2.3.4.5.4 State diagram None.

### 4.2.4 Namespace: ORAN.O2ims.Provisioning

#### 4.2.4.1 Namespace Overview
The O-RAN O2ims Provisioning namespace defines the classes and their attributes which are directly exposed to the consumer (SMO) via its O2 IMS Interface. This namespace is used for provisioning requests and fulfillments, e.g. of O-Cloud Node Clusters, representing the requested and agreed service levels and their current identifiers.

#### 4.2.4.2 Imported and associated information entities

##### 4.2.4.2.1 Imported information entities and local labels
Information entities imported into the model are also elements of the namespace and therefore shall remain unique within the namespace. Label reference Local label TS 28.622 [6], information object class, Top Top

##### 4.2.4.2.2 Associated information entities and local labels
Information entities referenced in the model through an association which may be extended and overloaded with a new entity of the same name within the namespace are listed in the associated entities table. Label reference Local label

#### 4.2.4.3 Class Diagram

##### 4.2.4.3.1 Relationships
4.2.4.3.1.1 Description This clause depicts the set of classes (e.g. IOCs) that encapsulates the information relevant for the O-RAN Cloud (O-Cloud). This clause provides an overview of the relationships between relevant classes in UML. Subsequent clauses provide more detailed specification of various aspects of these classes. The UML Class diagram depicts a view of the namespace maintaining a defined focus so as not to overcrowd a single diagram trying to depict all relationships within the namespace. 4.2.4.3.1.2 ORAN.O2ims.Provisioning Intra-Namespace Relationships 4.2.4.3.1.3 ORAN.O2ims.Provisioning Inter-Namespace Relationships

##### 4.2.4.3.2 Inheritance
4.2.4.3.2.1 ORAN.O2ims.Provisioning Inheritance

#### 4.2.4.4 Class Definitions

##### 4.2.4.4.1 ProvisioningRequest
4.2.4.4.1.1 Definition The ProvisioningRequest represents a request for item(s) to be provisioned in the O-Cloud. The SMO makes the declarative request to the O-Cloud through the O2ims. 4.2.4.4.1.2 Attributes Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties provisioningRequestI Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M d Description: Identifier of the x-isInvariant: True x-inventoryNotification: False provisioning request instance x-stateChangeNotification: False assigned by the SMO. nullable: False format: uuid name Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Human readable x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: False name of the provisioning request x-stateChangeNotification: False instance as assigned by the nullable: False SMO. description Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Human readable x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: False description of the provisioning x-stateChangeNotification: False request instance as assigned by nullable: False the SMO. templateName Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Name of the x-isInvariant: False template to be used as the basis x-inventoryNotification: False x-stateChangeNotification: False for the declarative model for the nullable: False provisioning request instance. When combined with the templateVersion it shall resolve to a templateId. templateVersion Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties Description: Version of the x-isInvariant: False template used as the basis for x-inventoryNotification: False x-stateChangeNotification: False the declarative model for the nullable: False provisioning request instance. When combined with the templateName it shall resolve to a templateId. templateParameters Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: List of x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: False variables/value pairs used within x-stateChangeNotification: False the template to tailor the nullable: True template to this request instance. x-isOrdered: False minItems: 0 uniqueItems: True items: AttributeValuePair provisioningRequest Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Reference Description: A unique reference readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True of this ProvisioningRequest x-inventoryNotification: False assigned by the service producer x-stateChangeNotification: False at the time of request creation. nullable: False status Data Type: ProvisioningStatus x-support-qualifier: M Description: The time of the last readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False message and the current x-inventoryNotification: False provisioningPhase of the x-stateChangeNotification: True ProvisioningRequest. nullable: False provisionedResource Data Type: x-support-qualifier: M readOnly: True Set provisionedResourceSet x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: True Description: The resources that x-stateChangeNotification: False have been successfully nullable: True provisioned as part of the provisioningRequest. 4.2.4.4.1.3 Attribute constraints Name Definition ReadOnlyAfterCreate The following attributes are provided by the SMO on the create request but are readOnly aftwards: provisioningRequestId 4.2.4.4.1.4 State diagram None.

##### 4.2.4.4.2 ProvisioningStatus <<dataType>>
4.2.4.4.2.1 Definition The ProvisioningStatus represents the status of a ProvisioningRequest indicating the time of the last message and the current provisioningPhase. The provisioningPhase is an enumerated set of values – PENDING, PROGRESSING, FULFILLED, FAILED, DELETING, that reflect the current phase of the provisioning request. The high-level definition of each provisioningPhase, are:
- PENDING: The ProvisioningRequest is waiting to be processed by the O-Cloud (IMS).
- PROGRESSING: The O-Cloud (IMS) is processing the ProvisioningRequest and executing the actions to fulfill it.
- FULFILLED: The ProvisioningRequest has been successfully processed and completed by the O-Cloud (IMS).
- FAILED: The ProvisioningRequest could not be fully processed by the O-Cloud (IMS).
- DELETING: The ProvisioningRequest is in the process of being deleted by the O-Cloud (IMS).
4.2.4.4.2.2 Attributes Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties updateTime Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: The last date and readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False time that the provisioningPhase x-inventoryNotification: False attribute was modified. x-stateChangeNotification: True nullable: False format: date-time message Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Human readable readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False text about the provisioningPhase x-inventoryNotification: False at the last updateTime. x-stateChangeNotification: True nullable: False provisioningPhase Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: This is an readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False enumerated set of values which x-inventoryNotification: False reflects the current phase of the x-stateChangeNotification: True provisioning request. nullable: False enum:
- PENDING
- PROGRESSING
- FULFILLED
- FAILED
- DELETING
4.2.4.4.2.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.2.4.4.2.4 State diagram Figure 4.2.4.4.2.4-1 State Diagram for Provisioning Request (provisioningPhase) Phase Transition

##### 4.2.4.4.3 ProvisionedResourceSet <<dataType>>
4.2.4.4.3.1 Definition The ProvisionedResourceSet represents the resources that have been successfully provisioned as part of the ProvisioningRequest. 4.2.4.4.3.2 Attributes Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties nodeClusterId Data Type: String x-support-qualifier: M Description: If the request is readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False fulfilled by a NodeCluster this x-inventoryNotification: True field will contain its Id. x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: True format: uuid infrastructureResourc Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M eIds Description: If the request is readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False fulfilled by x-inventoryNotification: True InfrastructureResource(s) this list x-stateChangeNotification: False will contain the Id(s) of all nullable: True resources used to fulfil it. x-isOrdered: False minItems: 0 uniqueItems: True items: string 4.2.4.4.2.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.2.4.4.2.4 State diagram None.

### 4.2.5 Namespace: ORAN.O2ims.Infrastructure

#### 4.2.5.1 Namespace Overview
The O-RAN O2ims Infrastructure namespace defines the classes and their attributes which are directly exposed to the consumer (SMO) via its O2 IMS Interface. This namespace is used for fulfillment of provisioning requests which produce configured resources for later provisioning requests.

#### 4.2.5.2 Imported and associated information entities

##### 4.2.5.2.1 Imported information entities and local labels
Information entities imported into the model are also elements of the namespace and therefore shall remain unique within the namespace. Label reference Local label

##### 4.2.5.2.2 Associated information entities and local labels
Information entities referenced in the model through an association which may be extended and overloaded with a new entity of the same name within the namespace are listed in the associated entities table. Label reference Local label 4.2.1.4.7, InfrastructureInventoryObject_ InfrastructureInventoryObject_

#### 4.2.5.3 Class Diagram

##### 4.2.5.3.1 Relationships
4.2.5.3.1.1 Description This clause depicts the set of classes (e.g. IOCs) that encapsulates the information relevant for the O-RAN Cloud (O-Cloud). This clause provides an overview of the relationships between relevant classes in UML. Subsequent clauses provide more detailed specification of various aspects of these classes. The UML Class diagram depicts a view of the namespace maintaining a defined focus so as not to overcrowd a single diagram trying to depict all relationships within the namespace. 4.2.5.3.1.2 ORAN.O2ims.Infrastructure Intra-Namespace Relationships The O-Cloud Networking consists of both intra- and inter-namespace relationships, which are complex in nature. The overview diagram (Figure 4.2.5.3.1.2-1) which simplifies the relationships has been drawn to help build a high-level understanding of the various object classes and their relationships. For example, a “Node” of type VM, BareMetal, and/or IaaS, which is a cluster resource type, terminates one or more site networks, which is an infrastructure resource type. Similarly, a gateway can terminate one or more site networks, forming an intra-namespace relationship since both the gateway and site networks belong to the infrastructure namespace. These relationships, however, involve various elements and endpoints to support multiplicity, which introduces several implicit data types such as Port, NetworkAddress, and SegmentationElement. Each of these elements can include multiple endpoints representing a termination or an external connectivity attachment. These implicit data types and their relationships with O- Cloud Networking objects are captured in Figure 4.2.5.3.1.2-2, which illustrates the intra-namespace relationships between specialized infrastructure namespace objects. There is a relationship between “Port” and “AttachmentCircuit” to represent the endpoint connectivity provided by “Port” for O-Cloud Site connectivity, using two possible associations to the transport network described in Clause 4.2.1.3.1.4.1. Note: This document version represents the relationship with a dotted line, as the O-Cloud Networking Information Model is still in development. 4.2.5.3.1.3 ORAN.O2ims.Infrastructure Inter-Namespace Relationships

##### 4.2.5.3.2 Inheritance
4.2.5.3.2.1 ORAN.O2ims.Infrastructure Inheritance

#### 4.2.5.4 Class Definitions

##### 4.2.5.4.1 InfrastructureResourceType
4.2.5.4.1.1 Definition The InfrastructureResourceType represents a resource type in an O-Cloud. Infrastructure resource types provide the categorization of O-Cloud resources used to connect the O-Cloud resources and to build components of the Cluster namespace. The values for these types are used to build the configured inventory and enable an authorized consumer to track infrastructure resource changes over time. The O-Cloud provides a mechanism to discover the infrastructure resource types with respective operations on infrastructure resource types. The InfrastructureResourceType is a Specialized Object that derives from a Generalized Object, the InfrastructureInventoryObject_. The InfrastructureResourceType inherits the attributes from the InfrastructureInventoryObject_ and allows it and all specializations of this class to be included in a change notification. 4.2.5.4.1.2 Attributes Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties infrastructureResourc Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M eTypeId Description: Identifier of the readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True infrastructure resource type. x-inventoryNotification: True x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False format: uuid name Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Name of the readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False infrastructure resource type as x-inventoryNotification: True identified by the cloud provider. x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False description Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Human readable readOnly: True Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties description of the infrastructure x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: True resource type. x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False extensions Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: These are readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True unspecified (not standardized) x-inventoryNotification: False properties (keys) which are x-stateChangeNotification: False tailored by the vendor to extend nullable: True the information provided about x-isOrdered: False the Infrastructure Resource minItems: 0 uniqueItems: True Type. items: AttributeVa luePair 4.2.5.4.1.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.2.5.4.1.4 State diagram None.

##### 4.2.5.4.2 InfrastructureResource
4.2.5.4.2.1 Definition The InfrastructureResource is a Specialized Object that derives from a Generalized Object, the InfrastructureInventoryObject_. The InfrastructureResource inherits the attributes from the InfrastructureInventoryObject_ and allows it and all specializations of this class to be included in a change notification. 4.2.5.4.2.2 Attributes Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties infrastructureResourc Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M eId Description: Identifier of the readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True resource. Locally unique within x-inventoryNotification: True the scope of an O-Cloud x-stateChangeNotification: False instance. nullable: False format: uuid name Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Human readable readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False name of the infrastructure x-inventoryNotification: True resource instance. x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False description Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Human readable readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False description of the infrastructure x-inventoryNotification: True resource. x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False infrastructureResourc Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M eTypeId Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties Description: Identifier of readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True infrastructure resource type that x-inventoryNotification: True this instance is a type of. x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False format: uuid linkedInfrastructureR Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M esourceIds Description: List of readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False infrastructure resource IDs that x-inventoryNotification: True are used to realize this x-stateChangeNotification: False infrastructure resource instance. nullable: True x-isOrdered: False minItems: 0 uniqueItems: True items: string inventoryResourceIds Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: List of inventory readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False resource IDs that are used to x-inventoryNotification: True realize this infrastructure x-stateChangeNotification: False resource instance. nullable: False x-isOrdered: False minItems: 1 uniqueItems: True items: string artifactResourceId Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Identifier of artifact readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True resource Id that the instance was x-inventoryNotification: True configured with. x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False format: uuid extensions Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: These are readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False unspecified (not standardized) x-inventoryNotification: False properties (keys) which are x-stateChangeNotification: False tailored by the vendor to extend nullable: True the information provided about x-isOrdered: False minItems: 0 the Resource Pool. uniqueItems: True items: AttributeVa luePair 4.2.5.4.2.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.2.5.4.2.4 State diagram None.

##### 4.2.5.4.3 Gateway
4.2.5.4.3.1 Definition The Gateway infrastructure resource is a specialization of the InfrastructureResource. As such in addition to the attributes below, all attributes of the InfrastructureResource are also a member of this class.
> NOTE 1: The present document version does not specify QoS related attributes/classes.
> NOTE 2: The present document version does not specify complete L2/L3 related attributes/classes associated to the
Gateway. The Gateway is a Specialized Object that derives from a Generalized Object, the InfrastructureResource. The Gateway inherits the attributes from the InfrastructureResource. 4.2.5.4.3.2 Attributes Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties tags Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: The list of readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False tags/labels on the Gateway x-inventoryNotification: True resource. x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: True minItems: 0 items: AttributeVa luePair status Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: The Gateway readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False status. For instance, ACTIVE, x-inventoryNotification: False DOWN, BUILD or ERROR. x-stateChangeNotification: True nullable: False connectedNetworks Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: The list of port(s) to readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False support one or multiple Site x-inventoryNotification: True Networks termination. A port is a x-stateChangeNotification: False list of Gateway interfaceIPs e.g. nullable: True IPv4 and IPv6 for a Site Network. minItems: 0 items: Port realizedBy Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Where this readOnly: True x-isInvariant: True gateway is implemented/realized x-inventoryNotification: True (e.g. SiteGW). x-stateChangeNotification: False format: uuid attachedTo Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: The list of port(s) to readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False support one or multiple x-inventoryNotification: True Attachment Circuits. A port is a x-stateChangeNotification: False list of Gateway interfaceIPs e.g. nullable: True IPv4 and IPv6 for an Attachment minItems: 0 items: Port Circuit. 4.2.5.4.3.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.2.5.4.3.4 State diagram None.

##### 4.2.5.4.4 SiteNetwork
4.2.5.4.4.1 Definition The SiteNetwork infrastructure resource is a specialization of the InfrastructureResource. As such in addition to the attributes below, all attributes of the InfrastructureResource are also a member of this class.
> NOTE: The present document version does not specify QoS related attributes/classes.
The SiteNetwork is a Specialized Object that derives from a Generalized Object, the InfrastructureResource. The SiteNetwork inherits the attributes from the InfrastructureResource. 4.2.5.4.4.2 Attributes Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties tags Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: The list of readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False tags/labels on the SiteNetwork x-inventoryNotification: True resource. x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: True items: AttributeVa luePair mtu Data Type: integer x-support-qualifier: M Description: The maximum readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False transmission unit (MTU) value to x-inventoryNotification: True address fragmentation. Minimum x-stateChangeNotification: False value is 68 for IPv4, and 1280 for nullable: True IPv6. segmentation Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: The list of readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False segmentationElement(s) to x-inventoryNotification: True support one or multiple x-stateChangeNotification: False segments where, a nullable: False segmentationElement is a list of minItems: 1 segmentationID (e.g. 100, 200) items: and segmentationType (e.g. flat, Segmentatio vlan, vxlan, or gre) nElement realizedBy Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: Where this readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False network/segment is x-inventoryNotification: True implemented/realized (e.g. x-stateChangeNotification: False SiteNWFabric). nullable: False shared Data Type: boolean x-support-qualifier: M Description: Indicates if the readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: True Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties network is shared (True). x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False status Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: The SiteNetwork readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False status. For instance, ACTIVE, x-inventoryNotification: False DOWN, BUILD or ERROR. x-stateChangeNotification: True nullable: False subnets Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: The list of readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False associated subnets. x-inventoryNotification: True x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False minItems: 1 items: KeyValuePai r externalSiteNW Data Type: boolean x-support-qualifier: M Description: Indicates if the readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False network is also external (True) or x-inventoryNotification: True not (False) to the O-Cloud Site. x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: True default: False attachedTo Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: The list of port(s) to readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False support one or multiple x-inventoryNotification: True Attachment Circuits. A port is a x-stateChangeNotification: False list of interfaceIPs e.g. IPv4 and nullable: True IPv6 for an Attachment Circuit. minItems: 0 items: Port 4.2.5.4.4.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.2.5.4.4.4 State diagram None.

##### 4.2.5.4.5 AttachmentCircuit
4.2.5.4.5.1 Definition The AttachmentCircuit infrastructure resource is a specialization of the InfrastructureResource. As such in addition to the attributes below, all attributes of the InfrastructureResource are also a member of this class.
> NOTE: The present document version does not specify QoS related attributes/classes.
The AttachmentCircuit is a Specialized Object that derives from a Generalized Object, the InfrastructureResource. The AttachmentCircuit inherits the attributes from the InfrastructureResource. 4.2.5.4.5.2 Attributes Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties tags Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: The list of readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False tags/labels on the x-inventoryNotification: True AttachmentCircuit resource. x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: True minItems: 0 items: AttributeVa luePair segmentation Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: The list of readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False segmentationElement(s) to x-inventoryNotification: True support one or multiple x-stateChangeNotification: False segments where, a nullable: False segmentationElement is a list of minItems: 1 segmentationID (e.g. 100, 200) items: and segmentationType (e.g. flat, Segmentatio vlan, vxlan, or gre) nElement bearer Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: A physical or readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False logical link that establishes x-inventoryNotification: True connectivity between the O- x-stateChangeNotification: False Cloud Site and external nullable: False networks. 4.2.5.4.5.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.2.5.4.5.4 State diagram None.

##### 4.2.5.4.6 Port <<dataType>>
4.2.5.4.6.1 Definition The Port is a list of network addresses (IPv4, IPv6, or IPv4 and IPv6) which a network device is connected to. 4.2.5.4.6.2 Attributes Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties endPoints Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: The list of readOnly: True x-isInvariant: False addresses to support one or x-inventoryNotification: True multiple network connections. x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False minItems: 1 Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties items: NetworkAddr ess 4.2.5.4.6.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.2.5.4.6.4 State diagram None.

##### 4.2.5.4.7 SegmentationElement <<dataType>>
4.2.5.4.7.1 Definition The SegmentationElement represents one segment of a SiteNetwork. A SiteNetwork may have more than one segment. 4.2.5.4.7.2 Attributes Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties segmentationType Data Type: string x-support-qualifier: M Description: The description of x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: False the type of segmentation. x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False Segments Data Type: array x-support-qualifier: M Description: list of segmentIds x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: False for a given SiteNetwork segment. x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: False minItems: 1 items: string 4.2.5.4.7.3 Attribute constraints None. 4.2.5.4.7.4 State diagram None.

##### 4.2.5.4.8 NetworkAddress <<dataType>>
4.2.5.4.8.1 Definition The NetworkAddress is an IP address (IPv4, IPv6, or IPv4 & IPv6) which identifies a network address. 4.2.5.4.8.2 Attributes Attribute name Data Type/Description Properties ipv4Addr Data Type: Ipv4Addr x-support-qualifier: M Description: IPv4 address as x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: False defined in 3GPP TS 28.623 x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: True ipv6Addr Data Type: Ipv6Addr x-support-qualifier: M Description: IPv6 address as x-isInvariant: False x-inventoryNotification: False defined in 3GPP TS 28.623 x-stateChangeNotification: False nullable: True 4.2.5.4.8.3 Attribute constraints Name Definition ATLEAST_ONE_ADDRESS_EXISTS Condition: if ipv4Addr exists then ipv6Addr is optional. Likewise, if ipv6Addr exists then ipv4Addr is optional. 4.2.5.4.8.4 State diagram None.


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG6.TS.O2-GA&P-R004-v09.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG6.TS.O2-GA&P-R004-v09.00 Technical Specification O-RAN Work Group 6 (Cloudification and Orchestration)"
---

# 2025 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. All Rights Reserved 2

# 2025 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. All Rights Reserved 3
List of figures List of tables

# 2025 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. All Rights Reserved 4
Foreword This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by WG6 of the O-RAN Alliance. The content of the present document is subject to continuing work within O-RAN and may change following formal O-RAN approval. Should the O-RAN Alliance modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released by O-RAN with an identifying change of version date and an increase in version number as follows: version xx.yy.zz where: xx: the first digit-group is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc. (the initial approved document will have xx=01). Always 2 digits with leading zero if needed. yy: the second digit-group is incremented when editorial only changes have been incorporated in the document. Always 2 digits with leading zero if needed. zz: the third digit-group included only in working versions of the document indicating incremental changes during the editing process. External versions never include the third digit-group. Always 2 digits with leading zero if needed. Modal verbs terminology In the present document "shall", "shall not", "should", "should not", "may", "need not", "will", "will not", "can" and "cannot" are to be interpreted as described in clause 3.2 of the O-RAN Drafting Rules (Verbal forms for the expression of provisions). "must" and "must not" are NOT allowed in O-RAN deliverables except when used in direct citation.

## 1.1 Scope
The present document specifies O-RAN O-Cloud functions and protocols for the O-RAN O2 interface. The document studies the functions conveyed over the interface, including management functions, procedures, operations and corresponding solutions, and identifies existing standards and industry work that can serve as a basis for O-RAN work.

## 1.2 References

### 1.2.1 Normative references
References are either specific (identified by date of publication and/or edition number or version number) or non-specific. For specific references, only the cited version applies. For non-specific references, the latest version of the referenced document (including any amendments) applies. In the case of a reference to a 3GPP document, a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document in Release 18, or the latest 3GPP release prior to Release 18 that includes that document.
> NOTE: While any hyperlinks included in this clause were valid at the time of publication, O-RAN cannot guarantee their
long-term validity. The following referenced documents are necessary for the application of the present document. [1] Void. [2] O-RAN.WG1.TS.OAD: “O-RAN Architecture Description”. [3] O-RAN.WG1.OAM-Architecture: “O-RAN Operations and Maintenance Architecture”. [4] O-RAN.WG1.O1-Interface: “O-RAN Operations and Maintenance Interface”.

# 2025 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. All Rights Reserved 5
[5] Void. [6] ONAP v7.2 May 2020: “VES Event Listener Specification”. [7] IETF RFC 6241 June 2011: “Network Configuration Protocol (NETCONF)”. [8] IETF RFC 7950 August 2016: “The YANG 1.1 Data Modeling Language”. [9] NIST SP 800-145 September 2011: “The NIST Definition of Cloud Computing”. [10] 3GPP TS 29.501: “5G System; Principles and Guidelines for Services Definition; Stage 3”. [11] ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 (V4.5.1): "Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV) Release 4; Protocols and Data Models; Specification of common aspects for RESTful NFV MANO APIs". [12] ETSI GS NFV-SOL 015 (V1.2.1): "Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV); Protocols and Data Models; Specification of Patterns and Conventions for RESTful NFV-MANO APIs". [13] O-RAN.WG6.ORCH-USE-CASES-R004: “O-RAN Orchestration Use Cases and Requirements for O-RAN Virtualized RAN”. [14] 3GPP TS28.550: “Management and orchestration; Performance assurance”. [15] 3GPP TS28.531: “Management and orchestration; Provisioning”. [16] ETSI GS NFV-SOL003 (V4.5.1): “Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV) Release 4; Protocols and Data Models; RESTful protocols specification for the Or-Vnfm Reference Point”. [17] RFC 5424: “The Syslog Protocol”. [18] ETSI GS NFV-SOL 009 (V4.3.1): “Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV) Release 4; Protocols and Data Models; RESTful protocols specification for the management of NFV-MANO”. [19] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 036: “Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV) Release 4; Management and Orchestration; Requirements for service interfaces and object model for container cluster management and orchestration specification”. [20] IETF RFC8632 ISSN: 2070-1721 September 2019: “A YANG Data Model for Alarm Management”. [21] 3GPP TS32.111-2: “Part 2: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)”. [22] O-RAN.WG6.ASD: “O-RAN Application Service Descriptor specification”. [23] ETSI GS NFV-SOL 001 (V4.5.1): "Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV) Release 4; Protocols and Data Models; NFV descriptors based on TOSCA specification". [24] ETSI GS NFV-SOL 002 (V4.5.1): "Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV) Release 4; Protocols and Data Models; RESTful protocols specification for the Ve-Vnfm Reference Point". [25] ETSI GS NFV-SOL 004 (V4.4.1): "Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV) Release 4; Protocols and Data Models; VNF Package and PNFD Archive specification". [26] ETSI GS NFV-SOL 005 (V4.5.1): "Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV) Release 4; Protocols and Data Models; RESTful protocols specification for the Os-Ma-nfvo Reference Point". [27] ETSI GS NFV-SOL 006 (V4.3.1): "Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV) Release 4; Protocols and Data Models; NFV descriptors based on YANG Specification". [28] ETSI GS NFV-SOL 007 (V4.5.1): "Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV) Release 4; Protocols and Data Models; Network Service Descriptor File Structure Specification". [29] ETSI GS NFV-SOL 014 (V4.5.1): "Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV) Release 4; Protocols and Data Models; YAML data model specification for descriptor-based virtualised resource management". [30] ETSI GS NFV-SOL 018 (V4.5.1): "Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV) Release 4; Protocols and Data Models; Profiling specification of protocols and data model solutions for OS Container management and orchestration".

# 2025 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. All Rights Reserved 6
[31] ETSI GS NFV-SOL 020 (V4.5.1): "Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV) Release 4; Protocols and Data Models; Specification of protocols and data models for Container Infrastructure Service Cluster Management". [32] ETSI GR NFV-IFA 029 (V3.3.1): "Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV) Release 3; Architecture; Report on the Enhancements of the NFV architecture towards "Cloud-native" and "PaaS"". [33] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 040 (V4.5.1): "Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV) Release 4; Management and Orchestration; Requirements for service interfaces and object model for OS container management and orchestration specification". [34] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 036 (V4.5.1): "Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV) Release 4; Management and Orchestration; Requirements for service interfaces and object model for container cluster management and orchestration specification". [35] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 005 (V4.5.1): "Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV) Release 4; Management and Orchestration; Or-Vi reference point – Interface and Information Model Specification". [36] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 006 (V4.5.1): "Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV) Release 4; Management and Orchestration; Vi-Vnfm reference point – Interface and Information Model Specification". [37] ETSI GS NFV-SEC 021 (V4.5.1): "Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV) Release 4; Security; VNF Package Security Specification". [38] ETSI GS NFV-SEC 022 (V4.5.1): "Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV) Release 4; Security; Access Token Specification for API Access". [39] O-RAN.WG4.TS.CUS.0-R004-v17.00: "O-RAN Working Group 4 (Open Fronthaul Interfaces WG); Control, User and Synchronization Plane Specification".

### 1.2.2 Informative references
References are either specific (identified by date of publication and/or edition number or version number) or non-specific. For specific references, only the cited version applies. For non-specific references, the latest version of the referenced document (including any amendments) applies. In the case of a reference to a 3GPP document, a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document in Release 18, or the latest 3GPP release prior to Release 18 that includes that document.
> NOTE: While any hyperlinks included in this clause were valid at the time of publication, O-RAN cannot guarantee their
long-term validity. The following referenced documents are not necessary for the application of the present document, but they assist the user with regard to a particular subject area.

## 1.3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

### 1.3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms [given in [i.1] and the following] apply: Cloudified NF: a RAN Network Function software that is deployed in the O-Cloud via one or more NF Deployments. Deployment ID: correlation identity created by the O-Cloud for the SMO to relate to its inventory and manage. Deployment Management Services (DMS): the DMS are the logical services provided by the O-Cloud providing for managing the life cycle of deployments which use cloud resources. Federated O-Cloud Orchestration and Management (FOCOM): the SMO treats the collection of O-Clouds as a single federated cloud. The FOCOM are the logical services provided by the SMO to manage the distribution of O-Cloud software and provides orchestration for O-Cloud life cycle processes.

# 2025 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. All Rights Reserved 7
Infrastructure Management Services (IMS): the IMS are the logical services provided by the O-Cloud which provides the interface to orchestrate O-Cloud life cycle processes with the network functions it may be hosting and other operational procedures. Managed Infrastructure Template (MIT): a representation of the declarative target of a set of managed O-Cloud Resources, which defines its input parameters and indicate the known target characteristics of the provisioned O-Cloud Resources. Network Function Orchestration (NFO): the NFO are the logical services of the SMO which coordinates between the O- Cloud for managing deployment life cycle events, open loop, and closed loop operational procedures. NF Deployment: a software deployment on O-Cloud resources that realizes, all or part of, a Cloudified NF. NF Deployment Descriptor: a completed data model which provides an O-Cloud the necessary information to create a deployment. O-Cloud: a collection of O-Cloud Resources, Resource Pools and O-Cloud Services at one or more O-Cloud Sites including the software to manage O-Cloud Resource provisioning, Nodes, Clusters and Deployments hosted on them. O-Cloud Node: an O2ims exposed Abstracted Resource based on the Cloud infrastructure components.
> NOTE: Cloud infrastructure components typically comprised of physical and/or logical CPUs, Memories, Storages,
NICs, HW Accelerators, etc. O-Cloud Node Cluster: a collection of O-Cloud Nodes that work in concert with each other, through a set of interconnecting O-Cloud Node Cluster Site Networks. O-Cloud Platform: a platform comprising hardware and software that provides O-Cloud capabilities and services to execute RAN network functions.

### 1.3.2 Symbols
Void

### 1.3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations [given in [i.1] and the following] apply:
> NOTE: An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation,
if any, in [i.1]. API Application Programming Interface FCAPS Fault, Configuration, Accounting, Performance, Security KPI Key Performance Indicators MANO Management and Orchestration MOC Managed Object Class MOI Managed Object Instance NIC Network Interface Card O-RAN Open Radio Access Network ONAP Open Network Automation Platform OSM Open Source MANO

# 2025 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. All Rights Reserved 8
PM Performance Management PSM Performance Subscription Manager RAN Radio Access Network SMO Service Management and Orchestration TR Technical Report TS Technical Specification

### 2.2.1 Alignment with Overall Architecture
This document adopts the architecture as described in the O-RAN Architecture Description [2]. The O2 is described as the interface between the SMO and the O-Cloud to provide platform resources and workload management. The O-Cloud needs to be created before the SMO can interface with it. O-Cloud can consist of multiple Deployment Management Services. Each DMS can manage leased resources from multiple resource pools and span multiple locations. There is a single IMS for O-Cloud that manages all resources of DMSes as well as resources that are not allocated to any DMS in the O-Cloud. Diagram below depicts relationship between SMO and components of O-Cloud.

# 2025 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. All Rights Reserved 9
SMO can utilize blueprints or other pre-configuration templates to assign resources to resource pools and to assign resource to a DMS. Once the O-Cloud is operational the O-RAN Architecture Description [2] describes the functions to be performed over the O2 interfaces as:
- O-Cloud Infrastructure Resource Management:
o O-Cloud infrastructure Discovery and administration o O-Cloud infrastructure Scale-In, Scale-Out o O-Cloud infrastructure FCAPS (PM, CM, FM, Communication Surveillance) o O-Cloud infrastructure Platform Software Management
- Managing Abstracted Resources and DMSes:
o Creation, Scale-In, Scale-Out of abstracted assigned O-Cloud infrastructure resources o Deployment FCAPS (PM, FM) for abstracted O-Cloud infrastructure resources o Deployment DMS (Creation, Deletion and Lease of O-Cloud infrastructure)
- NF & Services Deployment Orchestration
o Deployment Software Management o Deployment, Termination, Scaling, and Healing of NF & Services deployment resources o FCAPS (PM, FM) for NF & Services deployment resources These functions fall into 3 categories: managing infrastructure, managing abstract resource and DMSes, and managing NF & Services life-cycle on the DMSs. These functions can be divided into two classes. Those which manage the infrastructure and those which manage deployments on that infrastructure. Therefore, the O-Cloud is logically composed of two functional blocks. The SMO has two logical blocks for the consumers of the O-Cloud services. The O2 as a Reference Point (RP) described in [10] are thus broken down into two (2) Service Based Interfaces (SBI) this decomposition is depicted in Figure 0-2 O2 RP Service Based-Interfaces. The following are a description of the functional blocks identified in Figure 0-2 O2 RP Service Based-Interfaces.
- Federated O-Cloud Orchestration and Management (FOCOM): The FOCOM is responsible for accounting and
asset management of the resources in the cloud. The FOCOM is the primary consumer of services provided by the IMS. The FOCOM has information about the O-Cloud resources management. Specifically, the FOCOM needs to know whether the services are within the operator domain or external.
- Network Function Orchestration (NFO): The NFO is responsible for orchestrating the assembly of the network
functions as a composition of NF Deployments in the O-Cloud. The NFO is the primary consumer of the DMS.

# 2025 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. All Rights Reserved 10
- Infrastructure Management Services (IMS): The IMS is responsible for management of the O-Cloud resources and
the software which is used to manage those resources. The IMS generally provides services for consumption by the FOCOM.
- Deployment Management Services (DMS): The DMS is responsible for management of NF Deployments into the
O-Cloud. It provides the ability to instantiate, monitor, and terminate NF Deployments. The DMS generally provides services for consumption by the NFO.

### 2.2.2 Alignment with OAM Architecture
This document adopts the O-RAN OAM architecture defined in [3], including the principles, requirements and reference architecture. It provides added detail on the use of the O2 Interface and associated functional blocks within SMO and O-Cloud.

## 2.3 Technology Independence
The intent of this specification is to keep it open and extensible such that it can adapt over time to technology not yet available. Therefore, functionality is described or cited with the intent to leverage open standards. There is a preference to reuse existing standards or open approaches such as Kubernetes and OpenStack.

## 2.4 General Requirements
The requirements below may be superseded in the O2 Specification as the interface evolves. Requirement ID Requirement Description REQ-O2-GEN-SMO-FUN-1 All SMOs (e.g., ONAP, OSM, etc.) SMO supports O2. shall support the O2 services and their requirements allocated to the role of the SMO. REQ-O2-GEN-OC-FUN-1 All O-Cloud implementations shall O-Cloud supports O2. support the O2 services, and their requirements allocated to the role of the O-Cloud. REQ- O2-GEN-TLS-FUN-1 Management Service providers and Communications between SMO and consumers that use TLS shall O-Cloud are secure. support TLS v1.2 or higher. REQ- O2-GEN-HTTP-FUN-1 Management Service providers and HTTP minimum is v1.1. consumers that use HTTP shall support HTTP v1.1 or higher.

## 2.5 Relationship with Existing Standards and Open Source
Solutions The O-RAN O2 O-Cloud management services follow existing standards wherever possible. The focus of this document is to identify the use cases which conform to existing standards, identify gaps in management services for O-RAN and define needed extensions. For identified gaps, the goal is to modify the standards to include the needed O-RAN extensions and update the references in this document as the standards evolve to cover the gaps. If extensions and gaps are not specified, it is expected that the management services producers and consumers are conforming to referenced specifications.

### 2.5.1 ETSI NFV
This is a list of the relevant ETSI NFV standards documents which require evaluation in order to analyze packaging, LCM operations, and security for managing VMs and Containers. The versions will be specified in the O2 technical specification. ETSI NFV standards provide a common model for the management and orchestration of VNFs (both based on VMs and containers) and NSs, as compositions of VNFs and PNFs together with network constructs for their interconnectivity.

# 2025 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. All Rights Reserved 11
> NOTE 1: ETSI GS NFV-SOL XYZ specifications include stage 3 level specification, i.e., protocols and data models,
while ETSI GS NFV-IFA XYZ specification concern stage 1 and 2 work, i.e., functional requirements, interface and information model and architecture specification.
- ETSI GS NFV-SOL004 [25] standard is used for VNF and PNF packages.
- ETSI GS NFV-SOL007 [28] standard is used for NS package.
- ETSI GS NFV-SOL001 [23] standard is used to describe VNF, PNF, and NS in TOSCA.
- ETSI GS NFV-SOL 006 [27] standard is used to describe VNF, PNF, and NS in YANG.
- ETSI GS NFV-SOL003 [16] standard is used, primarily, for VNF, LCM and Monitoring (including fault,
performance and VNF indicators).
- ETSI GS NFV-SOL 002 [24] standard is used for VNF/VNFC-level EM triggered scenarios (LCM, Fault,
Performance, Configuration).
- ETSI GS NFV-SOL005 [26] standard is used for NS/PNF/VNF Package Management, NS/VNF LCM and
Monitoring (including fault and performance), NFVI capacity information, and VNF snapshot package management.
- ETSI GS NFV-SEC 021 [37] standard specifies specific VNF Package security requirements, while ETSI GS NFV-
SEC 022 [38] standard specifies specific API and interface security mechanisms.
- ETSI GS NFV-SOL 018 [30] standard is used for the OS container workloads management provided by so-called
container infrastructures services management (CISM) function that concerns to DMS. The protocol and data model of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 018 [30] profiles Kubernetes®, Helm™ and OCI™ Distribution Specification API solutions to fulfil the OS container workload, compute, storage, network, and configuration management service interface requirements specified in the ETSI GS NFV-IFA 040 [33]. These specifications are based on the study analysis performed in the ETSI GR NFV-IFA 029 [32] on enhancements of the NFV architecture towards "Cloud-native" and "PaaS”.
- ETSI GS NFV-SOL 020 [31] is used for the container infrastructure services (CIS) cluster management, which concerns
the management of O-Cloud Node Clusters, as equivalent abstraction in the O-RAN’s defined O-Cloud domain. The protocol and data model of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 020 [31] profiles the Cluster API solution to fulfil the CIS cluster management service interface requirements specified in the ETSI GS NFV-IFA 036 [34].
- ETSI GS NFV-IFA 005/006 [35][36] covers topics Software Image Management, Virtual Resource Management
(Information, Quota, Capacity, Change Notification, and Reservation) Virtual Resource Performance Management, Virtual Resource Fault Management and network forwarding path (NFP) management. ETSI GS NFV-SOL 014 [29] standard is used for the virtualised resource descriptors as input/output for the management of virtualised resources offered by the Virtualised Infrastructure Management (VIM) function that concerns to DMS. The O2 interfaces generally follow ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [11] section 8 for interface security. Further refinements will be based on recommendations from the WG11.
> NOTE 2: Other recommendations can be provided in future versions of the present document.
Furthermore, clauses 5.2.2, 5.3, 5.4.2, 6, 6.4, 9.1, 9.2, 9.3 and 9.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [11] are referenced for the relevant O2ims and O2dms RESTful APIs.
> NOTE 3: Other sections of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [11] are still under review and relevant recommendations can be
provided in future versions of the present document. ETSI GS NFV-SOL 015 [12] provides RESTful Patterns. Section 5.9 defines the Subscribe-Notify pattern. Generally, this pattern is adopted by the O2, with the following caveats.
- Notifications should indicate success or failure of the receipt of the notification to the notifying function.
- The subscribe and POST may not be in the same service API. The typical pattern for the O2 is that the subscribe, or
its equivalent, is in the O-Cloud services and the post for the notification is an SMO service. There are no existing use cases of notifications from the SMO to the O-Cloud.
- The event types may be extended over time. Therefore, the O-Cloud services should provide the ability to discover
what event types the cloud instance supports. The minimal list of supported event types shall be:

# 2025 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. All Rights Reserved 12
o Inventory Change o Configuration Change o Fault Events o Performance Reporting o Heartbeat Another form of notification is the callback mechanism where the notify function is identified in the request. This mechanism is used in platform the software update procedure, as the cloud may not yet be configured for notifications when the update occurs. It is expected that all subscriptions and identified callbacks are persisted through a restart or a software update.

### 2.5.2 IETF
Not documented in the present document.

### 2.5.3 3GPP
The O2 interface is composed of services provided by the SMO and service provided by the O-Cloud. This closely resemble the Reference Points and Service Based Interface (SBI) definitions described in 3GPP TS 29.501[10]. Therefore, this specification follows the intent of the practices defined in [10] but has modified it from its intended 5G Core implementation to align with the O-RAN O2 interface.

### 2.5.4 Kubernetes
Not documented in the present document.

### 2.5.5 OpenStack
Not documented in the present document.

### 2.5.6 ONAP/OSM
Not documented in the present document.

# 3 O2 Interface General Principles

## 3.1 O-Clouds
O-RAN clouds are described in [i.2] as a distributed cloud composed of O-Cloud [Resource] Pools (as shown in the diagram below) where each pool is a collection of O-Cloud Resources within a Cloud Site with a specific location. An O-Cloud Node is the basic computational resource designator that is used to execute workloads and can be commonly thought of as a leased physical or logical server that is connected to the O-Cloud network. An Operator may have several O-Clouds from different vendors but will manage them as a single entity. These O-Clouds are viewed by the Service Management and Orchestration (SMO) Framework as a Federated O-Cloud. O-Cloud Nodes are provisioned (leased) from the O-Cloud Resource Pools, with assigned Operating System and Cluster software, into managed O-Cloud Node Clusters. The O-Cloud Nodes are commonly interconnected on the Cloud Site by the O-Cloud Node Cluster Site Networks that are provisioned from the O-Cloud Site Network Fabric (where available). The workloads (e.g., micro-services or Network Functions) are deployed on the O-Cloud Deployment Plane that is constituted by the set of available O-Cloud Node Clusters with its O-Cloud Nodes and O-Cloud Node Cluster Site Networks. O2 Infrastructure Management Services (IMS) are tailored for management and provisioning of O-Cloud Resources that are available for the SMO through the Federated O-Cloud Management (FOCOM) over O2ims. This includes allocation of the available O-Cloud Resources (e.g., Computes and Networks) into the O-Cloud Node Clusters and all cluster-wide operations on the O-Cloud Node Clusters throughout its complete life cycle.

# 2025 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. All Rights Reserved 13
O2 Deployment Management Services (DMS) for NF Deployment lifecycle management can be discovered over O2ims. This NF Deployment lifecycle management is available for the SMO through the Network Function Orchestration (NFO) over O2dms. As introduced in the CADS [i.2], management of the Cloud Infrastructure where the O-Cloud is deployed is managed by the Cloud Infrastructure provider (operator internal or external). As a general concept the O-Cloud can be seen as having three functional planes that can use separate or shared resources. The control and management planes described below may be deployed on SMO-provisioned O-Cloud Nodes or outside the O-Cloud. The O-Cloud Nodes are associated with the functional plane they serve [indicated as M, C, D in the figure], to inform SMO of their roles.
- Management Plane: O-Cloud Nodes serving this plane host functions which is responsible for managing the O-Cloud,
i.e., IMS and the DMS functions (indicated as M in the figure)
- Control Plane: O-Cloud Nodes serving this plane host the functions which manages the resources assigned in the
deployment plane to specific deployment instances (indicated as C in the figure)
- Deployment Plane: O-Cloud Nodes and O-Cloud Node Cluster Site Networks serving this plane are used to host O-
Cloud NF Deployments (indicated as D in the figure)

## 3.2 O-Cloud Inventory

### 3.2.0 Overview
From the perspective of the SMO, O-Cloud Inventory consists of the exposed O-Cloud Resources based on the physical and logical Cloud Infrastructure resources, the logical clouds which it provides as interfaces for deployments, and the inventory of deployments using the logical clouds. One of the responsibilities of the SMO is for “financial” accounting of the physical and logical inventory. The SMO inquires about the mapping of resources to their use. The O-Cloud is responsible for the assignment of resources to their use. Typically, the O-Cloud inventory is the result of the SMO provisioning requests and assignments of O-Cloud Resources with additions of O-Cloud internal status of the existing internal resources, e.g., if some of the resources are down due to faults or maintenance operations.

# 2025 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. All Rights Reserved 14

### 3.2.1 Infrastructure Inventory
Infrastructure inventory is passed between the O-Cloud and the SMO over the O2ims. An O-Cloud Resource Identifier is used to correlate the inventory. This identifier needs to be discoverable by the O-Cloud and would likely be on an “invoice” for the O-Cloud “purchase order” or whatever method that is applied to account for requested resources. The O-Cloud Resource Identifier is to be immutable. The IMS will add O-Cloud Resources to the relevant O-Cloud Resource Pool(s) when they are ready to be provisioned as an O-Cloud Resource. The IMS can then allocate the available O-Cloud Resources to O-Cloud Nodes and O-Cloud Site Networks when there are needs in the O-Cloud Node Clusters. SMO is then notified or can discover the O-Cloud Node, O-Cloud Node Cluster Site Network and O-Cloud Node Cluster. The SMO receives O-Cloud Resources startup events and updates its inventory accordingly. The O-Cloud Resource Identifier is matched with “invoice” data in order to provide “financial” asset tracking reports or similar assurance reports. The location and use identifiers are used to track inventory which will be monitored as part of cloud service assurance.

### 3.2.2 Logical Inventory
The O-Cloud itself needs to have one or more DMS available within its distributed footprint to enable NF Deployments. These could be based on different virtual cluster technologies e.g., Kubernetes/Docker and Open Stack. Each DMS endpoint provides an O2dms interface and is inventoried by the SMO as a Logical Cloud. The Logical Cloud and its Cloud Site locations are used by the SMO in order to select the O-Cloud to be used for a deployment during the Logical Cloud selection process.

### 3.2.3 Deployment Inventory
Although the cloud could support IaaS and PaaS deployments, most O-RAN MEs are composed of SaaS deployments as defined by NIST [9]. The Deployment Descriptor is a set of metadata contained in a datatype matching a capability advertised by the O-Cloud. Logical Cloud selection in the NFO will match the descriptor type with the capability type to enable deployment. The Deployment Descriptor will cause one or more cloud resources to be allocated (VMs, Pods, Containers,

# 2025 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. All Rights Reserved 15
Networks) but will return a single correlation ID, referred to here as the Deployment ID. The O-Cloud will provide, over the O2dms, the ability to fetch the details of these objects from their Deployment ID.

## 3.3 O-Cloud Monitoring Service

### 3.3.0 Overview
When the O-Cloud Infrastructure or the ORAN cloudified NFs fails, it needs to be fixed immediately, and preferably automatically, to prevent end users from experiencing service disruptions. To avoid this service disruption Network Operations must consider the telemetry information of O-Cloud deployments in the network. The telemetry information serves as a vital resource for analysing the O-Cloud’s state and health, and for delivering on service monitoring goals. The O-Cloud Monitoring Service uses telemetry data to provide monitoring of O-Cloud infrastructures. The telemetry data is provided by Deployments and Infrastructure and is correlated to reduce duplication of effort in determining the root cause in the network. There are different types of telemetry, Managed Element Telemetry, Deployment Telemetry, and Infrastructure Telemetry. 1. For Managed Element Telemetry, the objective is to monitor the application behaviour. This will be addressed in the O1 Specification [4]. 2. For Deployment Telemetry, the objective is to monitor the number of deployment instances an O-Cloud has at that moment and how many were expected, how the on-progress deployment is going, and health checks. Additional Deployment Telemetry metrics like CPU, network, and memory usage can also be collected. This will be addressed in the O2 Specification. 3. For Infrastructure Telemetry, the objective is to monitor the health of the O-Cloud Infrastructure components. Network Operations are interested in discovering if all the components in the O-Cloud Infrastructure are working properly and at what capacity, how many deployments are running on each node, and the resource utilization of the O-Cloud Infrastructure. This will be addressed in the O2 Specification.

### 3.3.1 General Capabilities
Business Capabilities:
- As Network Operations I need telemetry data from Network Functions in order to provide service assurance of the
network (Note: This is assumed to be handled by the O1)
- As Network Operations I need telemetry data from the infrastructure in order to provide service assurance of the
network

# 2025 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. All Rights Reserved 16
- As Network Operations I need to be able to correlate Network Function Telemetry and Infrastructure Telemetry in
order to reduce duplication of effort in determining one root cause Functional Capabilities:
- The SMO shall be able to correlate ME telemetry to Infrastructure and Deployment telemetry to aggregate problems
to a root cause
- The O-Cloud shall be able to make all Configuration Data and any external changes to it available to the SMO
- O-Cloud telemetry shall minimally consist of Fault, Performance, and Configuration Data
- The SMO shall be able to correlate a Managed Element to its deployment components
- The O-Cloud shall be able to report telemetry of deployment resources relative to those identified in the deployment
descriptor
- The O-Cloud shall be able to report Infrastructure telemetry and identify the deployments using the resource
- O-Cloud shall provide the collection and reporting of performance information of O-Cloud resources
- O-Cloud shall support the capability to notify about the availability of performance information
- O-Cloud shall expose the type of performance information that can be collected for the allocated O-Cloud resource(s)
- O-Cloud shall expose the type of O-Cloud resource, for which the performance information can be collected
- O-Cloud shall provide the collection of fault information for O-Cloud resources
- O-Cloud shall support providing notification of fault information related to O-Cloud resources

## 3.4 O-Cloud Provisioning

### 3.4.0 Overview
O-Cloud Provisioning is the allocation and configuration of O-Cloud Resources and Services to an O-Cloud Node, Node Group, Node Cluster Site Network, Node Cluster and/or Logical Cloud (as represented by a DMS). This is one of the key functionalities of the O-Cloud, relating to how an O-RAN Cloudified Network Function or part thereof can be deployed on the O-Cloud services and resources. The O-Cloud resources are deployed flexibly over the distributed O-Cloud Sites to match the O-RAN Cloudified Network Function’s fluctuating demands. The O-Cloud Node Clusters and Logical Clouds typically scale out using additional O-Cloud Resources to accommodate spikes in usage and scale in by releasing the used O-Cloud Resources when demands decrease. O-Cloud Provisioning enables numerous benefits including scalability, speed, and cost saving. To support the deployments, O-Cloud Provisioning will need to provide several functionalities. There will be initial support for the following:
- Affinity, Anti-Affinity, Quorum Diversity Rules
- Capacity Query
- Availability Query
- Managed O-Cloud Node Clusters and Logical Clouds
o Creation, Deletion, and Scaling for Cloud Site localized Clusters
- Identification of the O-Cloud Capabilities which are relevant for NF Deployments, that realize, all or part of, a
Cloudified NF, as defined in Annex D Support for the following functionalities is not addressed by the present version of the specification:
- Subscriptions
- Flavor Management

# 2025 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. All Rights Reserved 17
- Server Group Management
- Capabilities Discovery
- Switch Fabric Management
- O-Cloud Gateway Management
- Managed O-Cloud Node Clusters and Logical Clouds for distributed Clusters over multiple Cloud Sites
- Quota Management
- Resource Performance Management
- Virtual Resource Performance Management

### 3.4.1 Affinity, Anti-Affinity, Quorum Diversity Rules

#### 3.4.1.0 Overview
An Affinity rule specifies that deployments with the same rule applied must be collocated within the same scope. This can be applied to a single O-Cloud Node or an O-Cloud Node Group. Anti-Affinity is the opposite of the Affinity Rule in that deployments with the same rule applied cannot be collocated within the same scope. Affinity and Anti-Affinity rules can be applicable to entities outside of the current deployment such as Tenant or Namespace.

# A Quorum diversity rule stipulates that deployments with this rule can be collocated if less than 50% of the deployments exist
within the same scope. This rule can only be enforced when there is a minimum of 3 deployments. In which it will be the same deployment assignment as Anti-Affinity. In scenarios with more than 3 deployments a minimum of 3 different resource assignments at the specified scope (O-Cloud Nodes or O-Cloud Node Group) will be used. More can be used at the discretion of the O-Cloud Resource Scheduler.

#### 3.4.1.1 General Capabilities
Business Capabilities:
- Network Function Orchestration (NFO) shall be able to apply Affinity, Anti-Affinity, Quorum Diversity rules over
the O2dms interface Functional Capabilities:
- O-Cloud Provisioning shall provide Create rule for Affinity, Anti-Affinity, and Quorum Diversity
- O-Cloud Provisioning shall provide Read rule for Affinity, Anti-Affinity, and Quorum Diversity
- O-Cloud Provisioning shall provide Update rule for Affinity, Anti-Affinity, and Quorum Diversity
- O-Cloud Provisioning shall provide Delete rule for Affinity, Anti-Affinity, and Quorum Diversity
- O-Cloud Provisioning shall provide NFO with means to perform NF Deployments according to rules for Affinity,
Anti-Affinity, and Quorum Diversity

### 3.4.2 O-Cloud Capacity and Availability

#### 3.4.2.0 Overview
Cloud Infrastructure Providers install and configure the available O-Cloud Resources for an O-Cloud. O-Cloud Resources are allocated to O-Cloud Node Clusters and configured by the IMS to enable NF Deployments by the DMS where each DMS may have a different distribution of Capacity, and Availability. The O-Cloud Capacity is the number of exposed O-Cloud Resources of each ResourceType that can be allocated or reserved for O-Cloud Node Clusters. The O-Cloud Availability is the currently free number of exposed O-Cloud Resources of each ResourceType that is not allocated or reserved. The Capacity may be larger than the sum of available exposed physical resources if the O-Cloud allows oversubscription.

# 2025 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. All Rights Reserved 18

#### 3.4.2.1 General Capabilities
Business Capabilities:
- Network Operations shall be able to view the Capacity and Availability of an O-Cloud
Functional Capabilities:
- O-Cloud Provisioning shall provide Query of O-Cloud Capacity
- O-Cloud Provisioning shall provide Query of O-Cloud Capacity allocations and reservations
- O-Cloud Provisioning shall provide Query of O-Cloud Availability

### 3.4.3 O-Cloud Provisioning Basic Concepts

#### 3.4.3.0 Overview
These basic concepts will become relevant moving from the traditional RAN paradigm of total network and resource ownership to cloudified networks where there are more stakeholders, and the resources are shared amongst stakeholders. This section will describe basic concepts related to provisioning in the context of IMS and DMS. This section will elucidate that the IMS and DMS have a difference in kind. Provisioning is basic OA&M functionality. The concepts described here will motivate the development of O-Cloud O2 IMS & DMS provisioning service modelling, and information modelling. Provisioning in the context of the GA&P is the act of providing access to entities, e.g., resources. The general concepts described here relate to O-Cloud entities as well as provisioning functionality. The subsections group together like concepts.

#### 3.4.3.1 Workload
A workload is any software application(s) that consumes an Abstracted Resource (as defined in this document). For example, this workload could be a Host Operating System, Guest Operating System, micro-service, or the software part of a Physical Network Function (PNF), Virtualized Network Function (VNF) or Cloud Native Network Function (CNF) which would typically be deployed by a DMS.

#### 3.4.3.2 Resource Related Concepts

##### 3.4.3.2.1 Resource
An O-Cloud Resource is defined in an O-Cloud infrastructure as one that may be provisioned and managed through an abstraction. O-Cloud infrastructure has two kinds of resources: physical and logical resources. A physical resource is defined as a kind of resource that has a manifestation in the real world. A logical resource is defined as a kind of resource that uses a number of physical resources, or a portion of physical resources, or a number of software entities. A resource can be assigned to an orchestrator that will deploy workloads for resource consumption (see figure 1). For example, some kinds of physical resources could be servers, switches, and storage units. For example, some kinds of logical resources are Openstack and K8S clusters.

# 2025 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. All Rights Reserved 19

##### 3.4.3.2.2 Managed O-Cloud Service

# A Managed O-Cloud Service is an exposed, provisioned, monitorable, or managed entity that performs some operations for a client or consumer. A Managed O-Cloud service is an entity that provides some functionality to other entities. Managed O-
Cloud Services could execute on physical and/or logical cloud infrastructure resources thereby consuming cloud infrastructure resources not usable by the O-Cloud. Managed O-Cloud Services could also execute outside of the cloud infrastructure resources. Unlike logical services, Managed O-Cloud Services are created on demand ad infinitum. The IMS is the management endpoint for the Managed O-Cloud Service.
> NOTE: Exposure means it is visible outside of the IMS through the IMS endpoint as a managed object; thus, the SMO is
aware of it. For example, an autonomous service as a managed O-Cloud service, which as a plug-in to the cloud that performs some unique functions upon resources. For example, some kinds of Managed O-Cloud service might be boot services, upgrade services, and DMS.

#### 3.4.3.3 Resource Views

##### 3.4.3.3.0 Overview

# A Resource View is defined as the visible and/or accessible part of the Resource that an actor sees based on their authority.
Resources are seen by different actors that need to manage or act upon resources. Different perspectives from these actors are “views” of the Resources. O-Clouds can have multiple Resource Views to enable separation of authority and operations of the resources, into logical groups of actors (generally other SW entities). The four kinds of O-Cloud resource views are: Cloud Infrastructure Resource, Abstracted Resources, Assigned Resource, and Consumed Resource. This is done to provide maximum separation of concern between different actors. These views accommodate public, external, and shared private cloud deployments. For example, Consider a hotel room as a resource. The front desk staff who assigns a room to a tenant has a relationship to the room and job requirements of how to manage the room. That is, they have a “view” of the room. The tenant that checks into the room has a different “resource view” of that same room. The cleaning staff has yet another relationship, or “resource view”, to the same hotel room.

# 2025 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. All Rights Reserved 20

##### 3.4.3.3.1 Cloud Infrastructure Resource View (Green)
The Cloud Infrastructure Resource view is a resource view of a resource that is managed by Cloud internal physical, software and tool components. Cloud Infrastructure Resource can also be composed of other Cloud Infrastructure Resources and services. These can be used to compose or expose Abstracted Resources. The Cloud Infrastructure Resources are typically provided by the Internal, External or Public Cloud Providers.
> NOTE: The cloud infrastructure manager (green) is often implemented by a different organization than the FOCOM
organization (yellow). For example, a resource view of the Cloud Infrastructure Resource might have a computer, storage, acceleration, network hardware, and software implementing certain services from a public cloud provider. This is the hardware foundation in any sort of data center that serves as the hardware infrastructure.

##### 3.4.3.3.2 Abstracted Resource View (Yellow)
An Abstracted Resource View is a Resource View of a composed Cloud Infrastructure Resource (with a provisioning reference tag) that is offered through Provisioning. Abstracted Resources thereby map underlying cloud infrastructure resources (act of composing). The Abstracted Resource View is a perspective on the actual Abstracted Resources. This abstraction facilitates assigned users to perform their authorized management and LCM operations for these resources. The SMO sends the objectives to the IMS, which are the SMO requirements for Abstracted Resources that are being requested from IMS. See the figure below on “Resource views: abstracted and assigned resources”.
> NOTE: The act of composing a Cloud Infrastructure Resource could be as simple as finding suitable resources and
tagging it as an Abstracted Resource.

# 2025 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. All Rights Reserved 21
For example, an Abstracted Resource View might contain a set of available computer systems and a K8S cluster that are composed by the cloud infrastructure. The Computer Systems are referenced with an abstraction identifier (assigned by the cloud owner) and the underlying physical compute resources are not exposed. The K8S Cluster is also referenced with an abstraction identifier and the underlying compute, network and storage resources are generally not exposed. Some examples of operations on Abstracted Resources include listings of available resources and booking of available resources. For the logical resource e.g., the K8S Cluster other common operations would also include creation, scaling, update, and deletion of the cluster.

##### 3.4.3.3.3 Assigned Resource View (Blue)
An Assigned Resource View is a Resource View of an Abstracted Resource provisioned to the SMO that can prepare and adapt the resource(s) for Workload placement and consumption including its related FM and PM interfaces. The IMS assigns resources to the cluster and reports to the SMO. The Assigned Resources are the Abstracted Resources that the O-Cloud assigns in order to fulfill a SMO request for resources (see example in Figure 0-3). When requests are fulfilled, the bookkeeping of Assigned Resources and Cloud Infrastructure Resources is done by the O-Cloud IMS. See the figure below on “Resource views: abstracted and assigned resources”. For example, the Assigned Resource View might present one or many K8S cluster(s) and other sorts of resources as an Assigned Resource. Some examples of workload orchestration that can be performed on Assigned Resources are cluster preparation for the workload, placement (deployment) of workloads, and scaling of the workload on the cluster. For example, consider a rental car as a resource. The Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) is associated with the car. The rental company has a rental agreement number for the same car. The person who rents the car has an entitlement according to the rental agreement using the rental agreement number that is not tied to the VIN. In this case, the rental agreement number is a representation of the car an Abstracted Resource. The renter views the car as an Assigned Resource. At any point in the time, the VIN & agreement number are linked, however, the link can be changed over time. For instance, car #1 breaks down and the rental agreement becomes associated to a new car #2 with a new VIN associated with car #2 all under the same rental agreement number. This illustrates how FOCOM gets Abstracted Resources and hands it to NFO as Assigned Resources.

##### 3.4.3.3.4 Consumed Resource View (Red)
Workload Consumed Resources View is a resource view that describes the workloads software program execution in the CPU; acceleration execution in the dedicated HW accelerator; as well as packet classification, manipulation and forwarding in a packet forwarding device. For example, the Operating System that consumes CPU instruction resources from the Computer System or Virtual Machine expect to acquire CPU metrics based on information to its OS drivers to offer its built-in performance management services e.g., the common OS TOP commands that indicates how the CPU resources are consumed.

# 2025 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. All Rights Reserved 22

#### 3.4.3.4 Hardware Layer Concepts

##### 3.4.3.4.0 Overview
At the foundation of a cloud is the physical hardware with physical computers to execute workloads on and some networks to interconnect the computers with each other. In the real world there are also many different provider organizations that need clear boundaries of their responsibilities e.g., between the cloud infrastructure and the outside world that will be served by the cloud infrastructure and its workloads. There is also a need to house the physical computers, networks, and other related equipment in some physical enclosure. As introduced in the CADS [i.2] a Cloud Site is a physical place that has Cloud Infrastructure equipment that can be used to provide O-Cloud Resources that are abstracted from the actual physical realization. This enables O-Cloud to lease out O-Cloud Resources through the IMS, based on Cloud Infrastructure physical resources on the Cloud Sites that serves the distributed O- Cloud. From an SMO point of view, it is important to understand the basic concepts of the hardware layer, not from the realization point of view, but from the O-Cloud Resource locations, capabilities, capacity, availability, and potential disturbances (e.g., at faults or maintenance operations) points of view.

##### 3.4.3.4.1 Computer System

# A Computer System is defined to be a physical or composed system capable of performing computations and is also connected
to the Site Network Fabric enabling the Computer System to work in a cloud and act as part of a cluster. The Computer System typically includes one or more main CPUs with their memory subsystems, Network Interfaces Controllers (NIC) and sometimes also Storage drives and HW Accelerators. See diagram 4: “Hardware Layer Concepts”. If the Computer System realizes an O-Cloud Node that performs the role of Telecom Slave Clock (T-TSC) LLS-C3 or Telecom Boundary Clock (T- BC) LLS-C1/C2, such Computer System shall embed high speed and low latency NIC(s) with support for PTP Hardware Clock (PHC).

# A Computer System can run any major Operating System with or without Virtualization and/or Container support
functionality. For example, a server in a data centre connected to a Site Network Fabric.

# 2025 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. All Rights Reserved 23

##### 3.4.3.4.2 Site Network Fabric

# A Site Network Fabric is a physically connected network on a Cloud Site enabling Computer Systems to communicate with each other and with the Gateway(s) connected to networks outside of the Cloud Site.
The Site Network Fabric generally limits how far Layer 2 connectivity can span without being routed or bridged over external routed networks that will normally change the connection characteristics in the form of longer access times. For Full Timing Support networks (refer to clauses 11.2.3 and 11.2.4.2.1 in O-RAN.WG4.TS.CUS.0-R004-v17.00 [39], the Site Network Fabric shall support PTP in order to act as T-BC or Telecom Transparent Clock (T-TC). For very small Cloud Sites the Site Network Fabric realization can be collapsed to the direct links between the Computer Systems and the Gateways which then are to be treated as fixed connections. The Site Network Fabric can provision O-Cloud Site Networks as a special type of O-Cloud Resources that can interconnect pooled O-Cloud Resources with each other on the physical level e.g., Computer Systems and Gateways.

##### 3.4.3.4.3 Site Gateway

# A Site Gateway (as can be seen in figure 3.4-4) are commonly placed between each Cloud Site and the externally provided
transport network to ensure a clear separation of cloud internal and cloud external traffic in terms of security, traffic treatment and operational separation of concerns. The Site Gateways normally implements routing functionality that separates the Layer 2 domains between the Cloud Sites Site Network Fabric and the external transport domains. Site Gateways can be implemented as part of the Cloud Infrastructure, O-Cloud or provided by the transport organization. Regardless of where the Site Gateways are implemented, they could be deployed with management either from the Cloud Infrastructure, O-Cloud, or transport organizations.

# 2025 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. All Rights Reserved 24

#### 3.4.3.5 Execution Environment Layer Concepts

##### 3.4.3.5.0 Overview
To make the hardware layer consumable as O-Cloud Nodes, O-Cloud Node Clusters, O-Cloud Site Networks and O-Cloud Gateways, there is a need for Operating Systems and configurations on Computer System, Switch Fabric Network and Site Gateway resources. To enable a distributed O-Cloud and to get traffic in and out of the cloud there is also a need for a configuration of the Gateway(s) that makes it an O-Cloud Gateway. Beside the Operating System on the Compute Nodes, they can also include cluster software and/or configurations that connects a set of O-Cloud Nodes into a O-Cloud Node Cluster and to a O-Cloud Gateway.

##### 3.4.3.5.1 Operating System (OS)
An Operating System (OS) is a system software that manages and abstracts the Computer System hardware and software resources as well as provides common services for computer programs such as scheduling and network connectivity. In order to support time synchronization, the OS on a Computer System that performs the role of T-TSC or T-BC shall be configured to synchronize with hardware time stamping by PTP (as an example to relevant OS configuration items, refer to clauses 5.5.1.1.2.1 and 5.5.1.2.2.1 of O-RAN.WG6.CADs Error! Reference source not found.).

##### 3.4.3.5.2 Operating System with Virtual Machines
An Operating System with Virtual Machines is an OS that through software or hardware implementation includes the ability to offer multiple Virtual Machines, each acting as a well-separated Computer System.

##### 3.4.3.5.3 Operating System with Containers
An Operating System (OS) with Containers is an OS that include the ability to offer multiple separated name spaces, quotas, and management for Containers.

##### 3.4.3.5.4 Compute Node

# A Compute Node is a Computer System with a running managed Operating System that is network connected.

# 2025 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. All Rights Reserved 25

##### 3.4.3.5.5 O-Cloud Node
An O-Cloud Node is an O2ims exposed Abstracted Resource based on the Cloud infrastructure internal Compute Node. (CAD definition: “An O-Cloud Node is a collection of CPUs, Mem, Storage, NICs, Accelerators, BIOSes, BMCs, etc., and can be thought of as a server.”). An O-Cloud Node that participates in the deployment of NF Deployments concerning vO-DU, acting as a master/slave clock, shall be provisioned on a Computer System and OS that has the required PTP support.

##### 3.4.3.5.6 O-Cloud Site Network
An O-Cloud Site Network is a logical network interconnect enabling Compute Nodes to communicate with each other within their cluster and through the O-Cloud Gateway(s) connected to networks outside of the O-Cloud Site including other O-Cloud Sites. The O-Cloud Site Networks can represent a partition of the physically available O-Cloud Site Network Fabrics available networks (sometimes referred to as underlay networks, although it is an ambiguous term since it can refer to any layer that supports another layer). The O-Cloud Site Networks can also be further encapsulated on the O-Cloud Site Networks physical partitions or even on other O-Cloud Site Networks (sometimes referred to as overlay networks, that is neither a distinct term since it can refer to any layer, but the very lowest physical layer). O-Cloud Site Networks can be provisioned into O-Cloud Node Cluster Site Networks or O-Cloud Node Group Site Networks (often referred to as overlay networks) where they can be used to interconnect the provisioned O-Cloud Nodes inside a O- Cloud Node Cluster on the local O-Cloud Site. The O-Cloud Node Cluster Site Networks can span all the O-Cloud Nodes on the O-Cloud Site while the O-Cloud Node Group Site Network can only span the O-Cloud Nodes within its own O-Cloud Node Group on the O-Cloud Site. O-Cloud Site Networks, which are used to provision O-Cloud Node Clusters Networks and O-Cloud Node Group Networks in the O-Cloud Site that support NF Deployments with strict time sync requirements, e.g., concerning vO-DU wherein the vO- DU acts as a master/slave clock, shall be provisioned to support T-TC or T-BC.

##### 3.4.3.5.7 Compute Cluster

# A Compute Cluster is a selected set of Computer Systems that are physically interconnected through a Site Network Fabric
which can be used to setup a O-Cloud Node Cluster (as defined below).

##### 3.4.3.5.8 O-Cloud Node Cluster
An O-Cloud Node Cluster is a set of O-Cloud Site Network interconnected Compute Nodes of a specific type. The following four types of O-Cloud Node Clusters are defined: 1. Bare Metal Container Cluster – A Bare Metal Container Cluster is a set of network-connected computer systems with their individual operating system instances that supports containers in a cluster configuration. 2. VM-based Container Cluster – A VM-based Container Cluster is a set of network-connected Virtual Machines with their individual guest operating system instance that supports containers in a clustered configuration. 3. VM Cluster – A VM Cluster is a set of network-connected Computer Systems with their individual operating instance that supports virtual machines in a cluster configuration. 4. OS Cluster – A OS Cluster is a set of network-connected Computer Systems with their individual operating system instance that supports a cluster configuration. An O-Cloud Node Cluster that participates in the deployment of NF Deployments concerning vO-DU, acting as a master/slave clock, shall be provisioned with O-Cloud Nodes whose Computer System and OS have the required PTP support (see clause 3.4.3.5.5).

##### 3.4.3.5.9 O-Cloud Gateway
An O-Cloud Gateway can also be used to encapsulate, bridge, or stitch the O-Cloud Site Networks in different O-Cloud Sites via transport networks e.g., for realizing Distributed O-Cloud Node Cluster Networks.

# 2025 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. All Rights Reserved 26

##### 3.4.3.5.10 O-Cloud Attachment Circuit
An O-Cloud Attachment Circuit (OCAC) is a logical connection enabling connectivity of Site Networks deployed within the O-Cloud Site to outside of the O-Cloud Site. In the deployment scenario where an O-Cloud Site includes the gateway functionality, one or more OCACs can exist on the O-Cloud Gateway.

##### 3.4.3.5.11 O-Cloud Bearer
An O-Cloud Bearer is a physical or logical link that establishes connectivity between the O-Cloud Site and transport networks or other networks outside the O-Cloud Site. It’s possible to carry one or more OCAC over the same O-Cloud Bearer.

#### 3.4.3.6 Local and Distributed O-Cloud Node Clusters

##### 3.4.3.6.0 Overview
Node Clusters can be deployed local to one Cloud Site or distributed over multiple Cloud Sites, but they are always within one O-Cloud.

##### 3.4.3.6.1 Distributed O-Cloud Node Cluster Networks
Distributed O-Cloud Node Clusters that span multiple O-Cloud Sites also span an O-Cloud Gateway routing function that can connect the O-Cloud Node Cluster Site Network traffic on the local O-Cloud Site to an external transport network. The O- Cloud Gateway routing functions in each O-Cloud Site where the distributed O-Cloud Node Cluster has O-Cloud Nodes, are configured to stitch, or bridge each O-Cloud Site’s local O-Cloud Node Cluster Site Networks with each other. The O-Cloud Gateway router function can also be configured to stitch or bridge selective O-Cloud Node Group Site Networks in between O- Cloud Sites. The external transport network could be a dedicated Distributed O-Cloud Transport or a configured partition of the Operators WAN Transport network. For deployments of distributed O-Cloud Node Clusters that will depend on the local traffic characteristics of the local O-Cloud Site the O-Cloud Nodes on each O-Cloud Site ought to be provisioned into one or more O-Cloud Node Groups if the clusters have a scheduling mechanism e.g., K8s. O-Cloud Node Group Site Networks can be used where specific O-Cloud Site local traffic treatment or isolation is desirable.

# 2025 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. All Rights Reserved 27

#### 3.4.3.7 Initiation Configuration Set Concept
Several Cloud Infrastructure and O-Cloud Resources have to be initiated or initially configured before they can be used for anything. This initialization could be done at installation, power-on, boot-up, start-up or as a re-configuration when the resource is not in-service. Many of these initial configurations have dependencies of each other and might be destructive to its functionality, characteristics or even expected lifespan, e.g., an incorrect combination of configurations could permanently destroy resources. Examples of such configuration parameters are found in servers BIOS settings and networking devices port configurations or setup of physical layer parameters. Some initial parameters only take effect during start-up and others could later be changed during run-time. Examples of parameters generally used only at start-up are specific hardware mode configurations and links to firmware and software images supplied by the Cloud Infrastructure or O-Cloud. Examples of run-time changeable configurations are port speeds of IO modules. An important parameter for a Compute Resource to be useful is the OS image (possibly including Cluster SW and other functions) that will be booted for an O-Cloud user. The image enables the O-Cloud Resource to be used and exposed as a O-Cloud Node in a O-Cloud Node Cluster. Other important initiation configuration concerns the settings on the hardware (such as Computer Systems and Site NW Fabrics) and OS layers to support time synchronization. To allow the O-Cloud users a safe yet flexible way to setup these initial configuration parameters in a coherent way, the O- Cloud has a concept of an Initiation Configuration Set (ICS) artifact that should be a consistent, validated, static and safe set of configuration parameter available in the O-Cloud. The ICS artifact content can be applied to the O-Cloud Resources at each start-up occasion. ICS artifacts are likely rather specific for each ResourceType and should have an association that indicate what ResourceType or ResourceTypes it is validate for. The resulting started O-Cloud Node keeps a reference to the used ICS that can be used to understand the static initiation parameters that can only be set at start-up. Configuration parameters initialized by the ICS, that can be modified in run-time towards the O-Cloud Node, will not change in the ICS since that is a static artifact. These parameters in the ICS could consequently not be used as reference to what is currently running in the O-Cloud Node. When the ICS is applied to the Resource at initialization it will result in a new set of capabilities. The user of the O-Cloud Resources will have to keep within the capabilities (hard limitations) of the installed and available O-Cloud Resources but have the opportunity to apply different ICS to tailor these Resources at each start-up to take into account the new set of capabilities and capacities. Each ICS are linked to the ResourceType it can be applied to, but there can be multiple ICS that support the same ResourceType enabling the O-Cloud user a selection of soft limitations to be applied at start-up. If the O-Cloud supports, the use of ICS then O2ims need to expose available and referenced ICS. Where a ResourceType supports multiple separated or hierarchical restart or start-up domains the ResourceType could select to divide up its total set of start-up configuration parameters in separate ICS that can be individually applied for each such domain. This pattern enables a ResourceType to perform a partial reconfiguration of the resource during run-time, but it can also be used for other practical reasons. For fixed pre-configured Resources there might not even be an ICS available in the O- Cloud.

#### 3.4.3.8 Managed Infrastructure Template Concept
The Managed Infrastructure Template (MIT) concept enables repetitive creation and updates of managed O-Cloud Resources. Examples of such managed O-Cloud Resources are O-Cloud Node Clusters and Infrastructure Resources that are provisioned for the O-Cloud client (SMO) and managed by the O-Cloud. The MIT contains a parameter schema enabling an O-Cloud client to determine the mandatory and optional parameters to be supplied with a client’s provisioning request for a set of managed O-Cloud Resources. The MIT can also contain a set of known target characteristics that enable the O-Cloud client to understand what capabilities and capacities the resulting set of managed O-Cloud Resources will have when they are provisioned. These characteristics are intended to support the O-Cloud client in their selection of what MIT to choose for a specific provisioning request. The O-Cloud has the MIT source-of-truth, and a set of O-Cloud internal MIT related content used to control the realization of managed O-Cloud Resources when provisioning requests are received. The MIT with a valid set of parameters serves as the declarative target configuration of a provisioning request. Templates are a common concept used for declarative target of clusters in various initiatives, e.g., in clause 6.2 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 036 [19] for the case of container infrastructure clusters.

# 2025 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. All Rights Reserved 28
SMO selects a MIT representing a desired set of characteristics of managed O-Cloud Resources, selects values for that MIT’s defined parameters and sends a provisioning request to the O-Cloud. The known target characteristics and a parameter schema are part of the MIT. The O-Cloud exposes the MITs to the SMO as MIT Artifact Resource objects on O2ims hence enabling the SMO to discover them and query them about their attributes. The parameter schema in the MIT defines the parameters, their types, their allowed value ranges and whether they are mandatory or optional to supply with a provisioning request that references this MIT. When the SMO issues a provisioning request referencing a MIT in the O-Cloud and, where applicable, includes a valid set of parameter values, it triggers the O-Cloud to start convergence towards the MIT declarative target of the requested managed O- Cloud Resources. The O-Cloud applies its O-Cloud internal MIT realization control recipe on O-Cloud Inventory Resources and O-Cloud internal resources that enable the O-Cloud to converge to the declarative target configuration of the managed O- Cloud Resources. The O-Cloud internal MIT realization control recipe provides the O-Cloud with required information to build the managed O- Cloud Resources, including configuration, topology and structure of O-Cloud Inventory Resources and/or O-Cloud internal hardware and software resources. The MIT can also include the managed O-Cloud Resources known characteristics to be made available in their respective resulting target managed O-Cloud Resource objects. A standardized set of managed O-Cloud Resource capabilities used for the Node Cluster creation and updates are defined in Annex D. The resulting managed O-Cloud Resources will be built and reconciled in the O-Cloud, whereafter it is configured e.g. as an O-Cloud Node Cluster and/or a set of O-Cloud Infrastructure Resources reflecting the selected MIT with its known characteristics. When a provisioning request is fulfilled and the managed O-Cloud Resource has converged to its declarative target, they will have their own set of detailed characteristics exposed through their respective resource objects e.g. Node Cluster Resources and Infrastructure Resources. An O-Cloud Node Cluster instantiated based on a MIT will have specific capabilities and capacities that can make it more suitable or less suitable for orchestrating certain NF Deployments on that O-Cloud Node Cluster. Supported capabilities can be expressed by labelling. The intended usage of the MITs is that a provisioning request with a MIT reference together with its populated parameters represents a target configuration of a set of managed O-Cloud Resources. That target configuration has a set of known characteristics that are well suited for the deployment of the intended target workloads (e.g., NF Deployments) through the fulfilment of their required capabilities, such as NF Deployments realizing O-RAN Cloudified NF that need support for time synchronization. An example of using a MIT for Cluster provisioning and configuration settings to an O-Cloud Node Cluster are functions related to time synchronization. In such an example, the provisioning request, with referenced MIT and needed parameterization defines the requirements for O-Cloud Site NWs, and/or O-Cloud Gateways to support PTP transmission, and O-Cloud Node Cluster to include O-Cloud Nodes whose OS is set to handle hardware time stamping for PTP. For the creation of a MIT and its O-Cloud related content, the following aspects need to be considered: O-Cloud exposed and internal resources, their internal connectivity, software, and configuration parameters as well as the requirements of the workloads that might be deployed on the resulting set of managed O-Cloud Resources. The MIT is immutable and can only be created or deleted. It is referenced by a Name and a Version that together shall be unique within an O-Cloud. The MIT Name is intended to enable the Network Operator to keep track of what main purpose the MIT has, and the MIT Version is a way to allow the Network Operator to have several versions of the MIT with a specific Name. When a MIT and its related content is created for an O-Cloud and is ready for usage in the O-Cloud, it is exposed as an O-Cloud Artifact Resource. This MIT

# 2025 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. All Rights Reserved 29
Artifact Resource provides the parameters schema that SMO needs to inject suitable parameters, and a representation of the resulting known managed O-Cloud Resources target characteristics, such as, but not limited to their capabilities and capacities. SMO can detect any new MIT over the O2ims through polling or subscribed change notifications of the MIT Artifact catalogue and can then read each MIT when it is required. The SMO can build up its own representation of each O-Cloud’s MIT and complement these with relevant metadata such as where in the O-Cloud the MIT is supported. This information enables the SMO to understand the applicability of a MIT and where it can be used to deploy its targeted set of managed O-Cloud Resources. SMO keeps track of MITs to enable its orchestrators and other functions to understand what MITs are available in each O- Cloud, and what known characteristics could be realized by a provisioning request referencing a specific MIT and other relevant metadata about the MITs. This information is required to enable SMO to select a relevant MIT for the set of targeted managed O-Cloud Resources that can serve the intended workloads. When a SMO requests a new or updated set of managed O-Cloud Resources it references the desired MIT in the O2ims ProvisioningRequest along with a complete set of valid parameters for the selected MIT. The O-Cloud will then reconcile the set of managed O-Cloud Resources to the declarative target given by the referenced MIT and SMO supplied parameters. The managed O-Cloud Resources and its constituent O-Cloud Resources and topologies are reflected through their respective objects using the O2ims Inventory service that SMO can poll or get notifications about.
> NOTE 1: The method of how the MIT is inserted in the O-Cloud is not described in the present document.
> NOTE 2: The method of how the MIT is created and deleted is not described in the present document.
> NOTE 3: The method of how the MIT is created and tested is not described in the present document.
> NOTE 4: The SMO represented MIT characteristics such as Capabilities and Capacities are not described in the present
document.

## 3.5 O-Cloud Software Management
Software Management should be a priority as without proper management unnecessary risks may be taken. Software Management ensures security, cost management and software support. There are many benefits to Software Management, of which the main benefits are:
- Prevents unauthorized software from being installed
- Maintains a catalog of authorized software and its versions
- Provides visibility into what software and version is being used
- Provides a better view of which software products and versions are vendor supported
In O-RAN, from an O-Cloud perspective, there are four types of software which needs to be managed on the O2 Interface:
- The IMS software within an O-Cloud
- The DMS software within an O-Cloud
- The O-Cloud Platform software
- The O-RAN Cloudified NF software is the software implementation of O-RAN NFs which is capable of running over
the O-Cloud

### 3.5.1 General Capabilities
Pre-requisite:
- O-RAN Cloudified Network Function Software Package is onboarded to SMO with required information, the details
are not documented in the present document
- From an O-Cloud perspective the O-RAN Cloudified Network Function Software Image includes the underlying
software executable image, image properties/metadata such as version

# 2025 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. All Rights Reserved 30
- IMS Software Version image(s) is available in or from SMO with required information, the details are not
documented in the present document
- DMS Software Version image(s) is available in or from SMO with required information, the details are not
documented in the present document
- Security/Certificates, the details are not documented in the present document
Business Capabilities:
- Network Operations shall be able to perform the Software Image Management of O-Cloud Platform, IMS, DMS and
O-RAN Cloudified Network Function Functional Capabilities:
- O-Cloud shall provide Add Software Images of O-Cloud Platform, IMS, DMS and O-RAN Cloudified Network
Function to O-Cloud repository
- O-Cloud shall provide Delete Software Images of O-Cloud Platform, IMS, DMS and O-RAN Cloudified Network
Function from O-Cloud repository
- O-Cloud shall provide Update Software Images of O-Cloud Platform, IMS, DMS and O-RAN Cloudified Network
Function to O-Cloud repository
- O-Cloud shall provide Query Software Images of O-Cloud Platform, IMS, DMS and O-RAN Cloudified Network
Function from O-Cloud repository
- O-Cloud shall provide Software Image properties information of O-Cloud Platform, IMS, DMS and O-RAN
Cloudified Network Function. o SoftwareImageId, Vendor, and Version
- IMS can obtain the requested IMS Software, perform needed pre-check(s), and perform the update
- IMS can obtain the requested DMS Software, perform needed pre-check(s), and perform the update

## 3.6 O-Cloud Life Cycle Management
O-Clouds are a set of hardware and software components that provide cloud computing capabilities to execute O-RAN Cloudified Network Functions. These O-Clouds can be deployed centrally or at edge based on the deployment scenario and this typically involves cost and complexity. The goal of O-Cloud Life Cycle Management is to reduce this cost and complexity by orchestrating the deployment and management of the O-Clouds. In O-RAN the O-Cloud Life Cycle Management will provide the following capabilities:
- Deploy
- Registration
- Scale
The objective of Deployment is to provide automated provisioning of the O-Cloud Infrastructure. The objective of Registration is to register an O-Cloud and make it available for deployments. The SMO provides information for the registration of O-Clouds, this includes security handshake required for the trusted connection, the O-Cloud IMS endpoint, and the O-Cloud ID which is used to correlate the SMO inventory record with the deployed cloud instance. After the registration of an O-Cloud with the SMO, the following information but not limited to can be discovered:
- O-Cloud (IMS) provided Inventory services
o List of All Resource Pools in the O-Cloud o Attributes of a specific O-Cloud o List of all resources of an O-Cloud Pool

# 2025 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. All Rights Reserved 31
o Attributes of each O-Cloud Resource o List of all DMS
- O-Cloud (DMS) provided Inventory services
o List of Locations Supported o For a given location the Capabilities supported, such as: ▪ Descriptor types ▪ Technology types ▪ Accelerator types o For a given location the Capacity of the location o For a given location the Availability of the location The Scaling is not present in the current document.

## 3.7 O-Cloud Deployment Life Cycle Management

### 3.7.1 Overview
RAN networks are in an evolutionary journey towards NFV/SDN, Openness and Network Function disaggregation. This journey enables the CSP’s quest for future network and operational efficiency, where they can rapidly deliver new services and update the existing services with less cost than today. The goal is to reduce the time to market for a new service launch. To achieve this end state of higher service agility and lower operational economics, the CSPs are unambiguous in their support for a new network operational framework. The life cycle management of RAN network functions is an important consideration for this new network operational approach. In O-RAN, the O-Cloud will provide Deployment Life Cycle Management of NF Deployments. The following capabilities will be provided:
- Instantiate, which deploys NF Deployments on O-Cloud with necessary O-Cloud resources.
- Terminate, which terminates NF Deployments on O-Cloud with releasing associated O-Cloud resources.
- Scale, which scales functional behavior and resources of NF Deployments to support services. There is different
variance in scaling: o Horizontal Scaling provides dynamic functional scaling of NF Deployments’ behaviour by Scale In/Out. This scaling can have different invoke actors such as O-Cloud and SMO. o Vertical Scaling provides dynamic resource scaling of NF Deployments by Scale Up/Down.
- Heal, which provides the ability to recover/mitigate the NF Deployments’ abnormal behaviour in the network.

# 2025 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. All Rights Reserved 32

### 3.7.2 General Capabilities
Business Capabilities:
- The SMO provides the capability for Network Operations to initiate the lifecycle management functional capabilities
Functional Capabilities: 1. O-Cloud supports Instantiating an NF Deployment instance 2. O-Cloud supports Terminating an NF Deployment instance 3. O-Cloud supports Horizontal Scaling (in and out) of an NF Deployment instance 4. O-Cloud supports Healing of an NF Deployment instance 5. O-Cloud supports Querying information about an NF Deployment instance 6. O-Cloud supports Querying status of LCM operations 7. O-Cloud supports Upgrading of any or all components of an NF Deployment instance

### 3.7.3 Deployment Management Services
The O-Cloud provides services over the O2dms interface to allow an SMO to trigger the functional capabilities specified in Section 0. As allowed by the O-RAN Cloud Architecture and Deployment Scenarios [12] specification, O-Cloud implementations can incorporate a multitude of virtualization technologies (e.g., VMs, containers, bare metal) and technology stacks which have major differences from each other. To account for these differences, each O-Cloud might have its own specific O2dms service API profile(s). An O2 DMS specification for a specific profile describes the API provided by the profile and how to use them to achieve the capabilities listed in Section 0. An SMO is intended to be able know which profile it is using and orchestrate according to description provided in the O2dms service API profile(s). The profile specific APIs will be defined in each stage 3 O2dms specification. The SMO needs to understand which O-Cloud capabilities are available in the O-Cloud, and what capabilities are needed by NF Deployments, that realize, all or part of, a Cloudified NF, so it can match the infrastructure requirements for the NF Deployments with the capabilities available in the different O-Cloud Node Clusters. A standard set of O-Cloud capabilities used for the deployment purposes of the NF Deployments are defined in Annex D. The O2dms specification will contain the following information: a) O-Cloud profile scope and technology stack specifies what types of technologies (e.g., VMs, containers) the profile applies to and specifies particular software systems (e.g., K8S, Prometheus, etc.) and versions that are part of the stack. b) O2dms functional capabilities description specifies how the APIs provided by the O-Cloud Profile are used (e.g., interaction flow) to implement the functional capabilities specified in Section 0. To achieve these capabilities, dependent on the specific profile the SMO can do one or more of the following: 1. Initiate the procedure via a single DMS API profile call.

# 2025 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. All Rights Reserved 33
2. Orchestrate using several DMS API profile calls. 3. Relegate responsibility to the O-Cloud by leveraging O-Cloud capabilities, SMO does nothing to manage these capabilities. c) O-Cloud profile API specification: specifies what APIs are provided by an O-Cloud conforming to the O-Cloud Profile. d) O-Cloud profile data model specifies the actual data elements used by the API. The O-Cloud Profiles form the basis for the protocol and data model O2dms interoperability – any O-Cloud implementation which supports a particular O-Cloud Profile is expected to interoperate with any SMO implementation that also supports the same O-Cloud Profile but not with an SMO that only supports a different O-Cloud Profile.

## 3.8 O-Cloud Fault Management Concepts

### 3.8.0 Overview
This section details general concepts related to IMS & DMS fault management. Fault management is a basic part of OA&M functions. The concepts described here will motivate the development of the O-Cloud O2 IMS & DMS Fault services and information modeling. The O-Cloud may be a confederation of resource pools comprised of various compute, storage, and networking resources. These might be provided by different public cloud providers. The public cloud provider is defined as computing services offered by third-party providers over the public Internet, making them available to anyone who wants to use or purchase them. Thus, it is important to outline some basic principles that can apply and are relevant to disparate vendors and providers. The following basic concepts are considered for IMS & DMS fault management:

### 3.8.1 Fault Information Model
A fault information model is expected to be developed in the O2ims information model. As a general concept, an information model provides a common lexicon, terminology, and model to serve as a basis for coordination between a group of actors. It facilitates communications between groups and aligns their contributions. The fault information model is applicable for the resources & resource pools as defined in the infrastructure information model.

### 3.8.2 Subscription
It is expected that there will be a subscription mechanism between a client and an agent. The client would pass an endpoint where notifications should be sent to. It is expected that multiple clients can be supported. Procedures are expected to be defined in the O2 specifications for IMS and DMS. Subscriptions originate from the client (e.g., SMO). For example, the concept of a subscription allows a client, such as the SMO, to register for call-backs to the O-Cloud to receive Alarm Notifications.

### 3.8.3 Notifications
Alarm Notifications originate from the IMS within the O-Cloud. There is a relationship between the Subscription and the Notification. When a condition occurs on an O-Cloud Resource which causes the current alarm list to change, this triggers an evaluation of the Alarm Subscription criteria by IMS. If deemed relevant by the Subscription criteria, an event is issued towards clients that have subscribed to receive such a type of Alarm Notification. For example, a user could receive alerts on an Alarm dashboard GUI based on O-Cloud IMS Alarm Notifications.

### 3.8.4 Parallel Reporting
A fault occurrence on an O-Cloud Resource may be reported by IMS to consumer(s) as an Alarm Notification. DMS resource faults are associated with a workload. It is possible that multiple resources can associate with a workload, whereby one fault might trigger an Alarm Notification on IMS, DMS and O1. Due to the nature of the subscribe/notify mechanism for Alarm reporting, it is possible to: (1) have multiple publishers sending to a single consumer and (2) conversely a single publisher that can send to multiple consumers. The interfaces for subscription & notification of Alarm reporting are: O2ims, O2dms, O1.

# 2025 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. All Rights Reserved 34
For example, it is conceivable that a vDU application might report a fault on O1, and a related physical server allocated to a workload of a vDU would raise a DMS fault which might also have an infrastructure Alarm raised on IMS.

### 3.8.5 Simple Devices
Collectively, in the O-Cloud it is conceivable that many devices are simple devices that do not have a full suite of OAM S/W. For example, suppose a network interface card (NIC) is a resource that is a simple device, and if that NIC encounters a fault it might not be able to register, store, or log faults. It is expected that O-Cloud infrastructure could manage these kinds of simple devices to be able to fulfill some of the other basic fault concepts described in this section. The O-Cloud infrastructure works with the IMS to report these faults.

### 3.8.6 Source of Truth
In an O-Cloud IMS context, it is expected that the “source of truth” will be the resources of the O-Cloud itself. When an Alarm has been reported to a client, such as the SMO, the fault data is replicated within the Alarm Notification to provide details and information of the associated fault. Thus, the fault information now exists in multiple places both in the IMS and the entity receiving the Alarm Notification. Which element then has the “true” information should the network or elements be disconnected or faulty? After connectivity returns, how would the SMO reconcile its view of the existing Alarms against the current Alarms on the O-Cloud? The answer is for IMS to query the source of truth (O-Cloud Resource) for the most current faults. For example, if a resource in the O-Cloud goes out of service, and IMS had previously sent an Alarm Notification, and then later the O-Cloud Resource returns to service, potentially the client (SMO) and the O-Cloud will have different Alarm information. But the O-Cloud Resource is the source of truth, and it is expected that client (IMS) would query the O-Cloud Resource for the current information and reconcile that with client data and if deemed necessary based on the subscription criteria, an event is issued towards clients that have subscribed to receive such a type of Alarm Notification.

### 3.8.7 Alarm Dictionary
An Alarm Dictionary is a reference which details the alarms that can be emitted from that O-Cloud for one or more O-Cloud Resource(s). The set of Alarm Dictionaries define the failure/fault conditions that would be reported by the IMS in the O- Cloud so that the SMO could act on those. The IMS delivers the set of Alarm Dictionaries to the SMO, for example during the process of 1) O-Cloud registration, 2) IMS Software update 3) O-Cloud Resource addition and 4) O-Cloud Resource software update. The desirable goal is commonality of the Alarm Dictionaries across O-Clouds even though they will differ to some degree by implementation. For example, the Alarm Dictionary could be used for a variety of purposes. It might help a user decode the meaning of an Alarm Notification. As another example, an Alarm Dictionary could allow for fault signatures or patterns to be identified which may constitute a condition which requires a coordinated response.

### 3.8.8 Queries
In the IMS case, the SMO (client) can issue an Alarm Query towards to IMS (publisher) related to the O-Cloud. In the SMO to DMS case, the SMO (client) can issue a specific query related to xApp/NF deployments (e.g., workloads) from the DMS (publisher). In the IMS case, an Alarm Query is a message which is expecting a response message from the IMS which matches the selection criteria. In the DMS case, the Alarm Query is expecting a response from the DMS. For example, the client may request status of a specific type of Alarm, or new active alarms conditions. The O-Cloud would reply to the query by responding with data based on the parameters of the query (e.g., IDs or severity).

### 3.8.9 Filtering
It is expected that the client, such as the SMO, can query for specific kinds of Alarms or groups of Alarms through a filter. In addition, filtering can also be applied to Subscriptions to determine if Notifications should be set. For example, it might request from the O-Cloud all the major severity alarms from a particular O-Cloud. The O-Cloud would select records based on the query pattern and send the details according to the Notifications. This concept will guide the IMS information model development of procedures that can support filtering.

# 2025 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. All Rights Reserved 35

### 3.8.10 Void
Void.
> NOTE: The contents of this clause (Fault Logging) has moved to clause 3.8.19.

### 3.8.11 Alarm Synchronization
There are many potential situations where a client and source of truth might become disconnected or disrupted. In this case, the client will need to synchronize with the source of truth after it is able to reconnect. For example, network fault might prevent communication between the SMO (client) and IMS resources in the O-Cloud. By the time connectivity has been restored, many new alarm conditions might have arisen and logged. This would motivate the SMO to resynchronize to get the current alarms again. A variety of mechanisms might be used to trigger alarm resynchronization. It might also trigger an upload of the most recent fault logs.

### 3.8.12 Alarm Correlation
As described in Parallel Reporting, it might be possible that a fault condition might result in a variety of different conditions or be reported in any combination of IMS, DMS and O1 Alarm Notifications. It is not the job of the O-Cloud IMS fault management to correlate faults between the application/NF and O-Cloud Resources. Thus, it would be up to higher layers of fault management to correlate disparate Alarm events to identify common root causes. For example, the SMO may receive an Alarm Notification for a fault with a root cause of a network issue among the O-Cloud Resources which manifests itself in a deployment and application fault as well. Thus, the SMO might receive three notifications over O2ims, O2dms and O1. It might correlate these Alarms to a common root cause.

### 3.8.13 Escalation Strategy
Fault conditions in an IMS resource may trigger an escalation strategy. An escalation strategy is a mechanism to increase visibility to a condition of duress which is typically a precursor to a more severe situation.

# 2025 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. All Rights Reserved 36
For example, recurring alarms, fault signatures and severity levels may have an escalation strategy to raise higher severity alarms for higher tier recovery actions. As another example, a minor alarm in an O-Cloud resource with a certain occurrence rate within a time window might trigger an escalation strategy to raise a major alarm.

### 3.8.14 Fault Domains
A fault domain is a “unit of failure”. A fault domain associates a collection of IMS O-Cloud resources together. We expect a fault domain to be within a Data Center Zone (see the provisioning chapter basic concepts for more detail). Faults could be associated with a fault domain. In the context of IMS fault area, fault domains are an attribute that could be correlative but do not have intrinsic fault operations, they are not a manageable entity. This would allow operators to design systems that are fault tolerant across fault domains. This might also guide placement strategies, and update cycles to improve reliability and availability. For example, a network cloud can host some number of servers per rack (e.g., 40 servers) with a number of racks of equipment (e.g., 10 racks) in a single deployment (totaling 400 servers). A fault domain might be defined to be rack. If a fault occurred, this concept would allow an operator trying to isolate the problem down to a rack (the fault domain). It would also allow a user to correlate a problem if multiple racks served by a common infrastructure resource.

### 3.8.15 Fault Tolerance
A fault tolerant system is one that is designed to withstand failures and continue to be able to provide service. Based on observations, some actions can be taken to insure reliability. Fault tolerant solutions & strategies will vary between O-Cloud providers and network function providers. An example of a fault tolerant strategy is the use of geo-redundancy and Data Center Zones. Geographically separating Data Center Zones allows service to continue should a physical natural disaster strike one data center. An action might be to migrate traffic from one zone to another.

# 2025 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. All Rights Reserved 37

### 3.8.16 Metrics
Metrics allow users to define thresholds to monitor and manage IMS O-Cloud resources. From these metrics, a user/system could take action based on threshold crossings and/or chart the metrics over time. Also, to achieve fault tolerance, there could be a mechanism for alerting, monitoring & auditing as a health check. For example, in the basic fault concept of Escalation Strategies, we might need metrics of how often a fault occurs within a certain period of time. These metrics might be used as a threshold in an escalation strategy for better reliability. If the fault occurred 100 times in an hour action might be taken.

### 3.8.17 Alarm Suppression
Alarm floods are defined as a multitude of alarm notifications within a short period of time. Alarm floods could be caused by disasters or maintenance work. Thus, it is desirable to be able to suppress alarms in order to avoid alarm floods which distract and overload operators and their monitoring of management systems. The suppression of alarms would cause certain alarms not to be raised when a certain failure(s) happens. The functionality can be managed via the O2ims and/or at the SMO. Furthermore, an operator might be interested in suppressing only certain alarms or types of alarms; hence, an operator could configure the filter for the suppression of alarms via the O2ims. It is expected that the fault originating from the source of truth, the O-Cloud Resource is still raised to the IMS. It is expected that the O-Cloud Resource faults would still be logged even if they are suppressed. The IMS would also perform the transformation of the fault into an alarm (as normal), and record that an alarm occurred. However, the IMS would suppress the alarm notification over O2ims interface towards the SMO. There are two motivations for alarm suppression: 1. Reactive suppression – reacting to a situation/disaster which caused/causing an alarm flood. 2. Proactive suppression – a priori, the operator is aware of activity which will cause an alarm flood. There are two types of suppression: 1. Suppression Type #1 – A mass suppression of alarms, where the suppression filter is requesting for many alarms to be suppressed. This will eventually cause mismatches between IMS and the alarm history at the SMO which would be reconciled later. 2. Suppression Type #2 – The suppression of repeated alarms would suppress an alarm that is being raised many times. SMO dashboard can filter alarms, which can help a user comprehend and digest a large quantity of alarm information.
- SMO – The SMO Dashboard can choose to filter the display of alarms to make the management of a system more
tenable for an operator. Filtering SMO would offer capabilities of filter, the type of alarms that are of interest to an operator. Alarm suppression occurs in two areas: 1. IMS – The IMS is responsible for transforming faults received from O-Cloud resource into alarms. It would suppress alarms based on its alarm suppression filter. 2. Source of Truth – The O-Cloud resource could suppress faults. This would be implementation specific.
> NOTE 1: It is expected that all faults originated from O-Cloud resources would be sent to the IMS.
> NOTE 2: It is expected that if the O-Cloud resource suppresses its faults that it would notify the IMS, though this is
implementation specific. Aspects of alarm suppression at the IMS: 1. IMS – Suppresses alarms based on a suppression filter. Suppressed alarms are not raised that would have normally been raised as alarm notifications towards the SMO (client) over the O2ims interface. Consequently, the state of the active alarms in the SMO (client) may be mismatched with the state of alarms in the IMS (O-Cloud) because of alarm suppression. 2. IMS – Respond with its Alarm List information based on the Alarm List query criteria (e.g., a time window which encompasses the suppression period) for purposes of synchronization & reconciliation by a client. The requested

# 2025 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. All Rights Reserved 38
Alarm List can be used by a client to align with its view of alarms after the situation has passed. See the Alarm List Management Use Case for more details. 3. IMS – The IMS would keep an alarm suppression filter(s). The suppression filter is configured by the SMO through the O2ims interface. The IMS may also configure an alarm suppression filter autonomously and inform the SMO through the O2ims interface. The IMS could respond with the current filter that it has, even if it currently has no filter. See the Alarm Suppression Use Case for more details. 4. IMS – IMS would still continue to perform fault-to-alarm transformation and record an alarm occurred irrespective of any alarm suppression filter. This is important that the O-Cloud continue to operate normally so that later when the condition passes the active alarm list can be reconciled by a client. 5. IMS – The cessation of alarm suppression could occur from one of three mechanisms. Alarm suppression can end through specification in the alarm suppression filter request, through a time-out mechanism, and/or by a configurable policy (which would be implementation specific). See the Alarm Suppression Use Case for more details. An example of Alarm suppression is as follows. Suppose O-Cloud Resource Compute Node #1 raises a fault #150 towards the IMS. The IMS would change the fault #150 to a corresponding alarm. If a suppression filter were active, causing that alarm to be suppressed, the IMS would not send the alarm notification (see the alarm notification Use Case). Alarm is still in IMS alarm list (not acked). Expected to have a sync, and SMO reconcile alarm. Some examples of Use Cases for Alarm Suppression are:
- Use Case #1: Something in Maintenance the alarms should be suppressed
- Use Case #2: Disaster turn off all (major, minor, warning) alarms

### 3.8.18 Fault Supervision
Fault Supervision is a Fault Management (FM) concept regarding the process or operations involved in the fault management of O-Cloud resources. Examples of Fault Supervision are the operations of Alarm Acknowledge and Alarm Clear. See the corresponding use cases in the Orchestration and Cloudification Use Cases and Requirements for O-RAN Virtualized RAN [13].

### 3.8.19 Logs for Fault Management
There are three basic kinds of logs that might be kept within the Cloud (both exposed O-Cloud and Cloud infrastructure):

# 2025 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. All Rights Reserved 39
- ALARM LOGS – Alarm logs are a record of the alarms that have been raised by the IMS. The IMS keeps and
produces an Alarm Log. It is expected that the IMS logs every alarm (including suppressed alarms) that it sends to the FOCOM (SMO). Alarm Logs are exposed in an O-Cloud to northbound entities.
> NOTE 1: It is also possible to log additional events or actions against alarms, such as clearing and acknowledgment of
alarms. See the Log Query and Logging Management Use Cases for further details [13].
- FAULT LOGS – All detected Faults are raised by an O-Cloud Resource. Faults information is stored by the O-Cloud
Resource, either remotely or locally, in a Fault Log. Not every fault necessarily raises an alarm, hence the necessity to log events for both fault information and alarms. The present document does not specify or describe the creation and operation of fault logs. Disclaimer: it is possible to combine Fault and Debug logs together. Fault logs, once activated, would be exposed to northbound entities. Fault Logging may be part of the general event logging and is a concept where fault information is stored by the O-Cloud Resource (the source of truth), either remotely or locally, for a configured amount of time. The concept of Fault Logging and storing fault information allows a client, algorithm, or user to query the fault log and analyze those faults. Faults that are intermittent, repetitive, or transient can be identified this way. For example, Debug traces used by some O-Cloud providers might be a way to facilitate fault logging meaning that certain condition can trigger writing to the fault log.
- DEBUG LOGS – The present document does not specify or describe the creation and operation of Debug Logs. They
might be able to be turned off. The log level would typically be configurable (at the source, middle, and end user level). For example, a typical implementation may use syslog (defined in RFC 5424, see reference [17]) which defines a “log level” to select informational (most detail), trace, warnings, errors, to critical (least detail) messages. Disclaimer: It might be possible that Fault logs and Debug logs might be combined. Debug logs, once activated, would be exposed to northbound entities.

# A Timestamp is a particular point in time when an entry in a log is created, and timestamps are typically used for correlated
analysis across logs and in maintenance activities. Therefore, all log files typically follow a timestamp format which would enable for correlation across log files. Logging Management uses mechanism(s) such as Retention Period to manage the length of time that entries in a log are maintained. For example, logs for an O-Cloud Resource could be stored for 1 week. There may be other logs besides Alarm, Fault and Debug logs that might be kept in the O-Cloud. The present document does not specify or describe what other types of logs beyond Alarm, Fault and Debug logs are to be handled by the O-Cloud. The following diagram illustrates the basic concept for Fault and Alarm Logging:

# 2025 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. All Rights Reserved 40
In the above diagram, O-Cloud Resource #1 encounters two faults, Fault A and Fault B. It sends those as Fault events to the IMS when they occur. O-Cloud Resource #1 might also store the occurrence of Fault A and Fault B into a Fault Log in local or remote storage. The IMS would assess and transform Fault A and Fault B into the appropriate Alarm(s). Suppose in this case, the IMS determines that Fault A would not need to be raised as an Alarm; however, the IMS determines that Fault B needs to be transformed into Alarm#10. The IMS would store the Alarm#10 into its alarm log to be stored either locally or remotely. The IMS would raise the Alarm#10 as an alarm notification over the O2ims interface.
> NOTE 2: The Alarm Manager shown in the diagram above is software which transforms Faults to Alarms that need to be
exposed. The alarm manager depicted in figure 1 is only for illustrative purposes to show the process of logging alarm done by the IMS.

### 3.8.20 Logging Level
The Logging Levels adjust the amount of detail recorded in Fault and Debug Logs captured from O-Cloud resources. The Logging Level is associated with the severity levels and thus what is captured in logs. The motivation for the Logging Level concept is to change how much information should be captured and sent from O-Cloud resources. For example, while debugging, a developer might raise the Logging Level to see more faults.
> NOTE: Logging Levels may apply differently to Fault Logs vs Debug Logs.
The notion of Logging Level is applicable to the source generating logs and from the perspective of the viewer. At the generation side, the Logging Level is adjusted to change the amount of data captured and sent; at the viewing side, the Logging Level indicates the level of detail recorded by logs. The higher the Logging Level, the more data that is captured and potentially sent on the generation side. Some relevant specifications include IETF RFC 5424 [17], The Syslog Protocol. ETSI GS NFV-SOL 009 v4.3.1 clause 8 which is the API on Log Management [18]. These describe how a consumer can set up a Log job. Log jobs collect logging information based on criteria with the possibility to indicate Logging Level. The SOL 009 specification: (1) describes the management of NFV-MANO, (2) It has a Log management API, and (3) the Log management API refers to IETF RFC 5424.

# 2025 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. All Rights Reserved 41

### 3.8.21 Alarm List
The Alarm List in the O-Cloud contains the history of Alarm Events that have been detected by the IMS. Each IMS manages one and only one Alarm List. The entries in the Alarm List are Alarm Event Records against resources and their respective resource type. The Alarm List contains both the active and inactive (a.k.a. cleared) alarms. The Alarm List concept is used in the Alarm List Management and Alarm Purge Use Case in the O-RAN.WG6.Orch-Use- Cases [13], Clauses 3.7.11 and 3.7.13 respectively. Alarm Life Cycle Management is described in IETF RFC 8632 [20]. 3GPP TS32.111 [21] introduces concepts related to Alarm List.
> NOTE: The present document considers that both acknowledged and cleared alarms are in the Alarm List. This differs
from 3GPP TS32.111 [20] where clearing and acknowledging alarms causes them to be removed from the Alarm List.

### 3.8.22 Retention Period
Alarm Event records in the Alarm List conform to an Alarm Management Policy which specifies how long Alarms should be kept in the Alarm List. When Alarm Event records in the Alarm List exceed the time period for retention, those records are purged or archived based on Alarm Management Policy. The Retention Period is not set per resource type. Instead, the Retention Period is applicable to all entries in the Alarm List. Therefore, an Alarm List has one and only one Retention Period attribute. The Retention Period applies to alarms that are both inactive and acknowledged.

### 3.8.23 Alarm Purge
The concept of Alarm Purge is defined by the operation of removing Alarm Event Records from the Alarm List permanently. The Alarm Event records to be purged are determined by the Retention Period. See the concept from Clause 3.8.22. Alarms in the Alarm List that reach the age of the Retention Period will be purged. When an alarm in the Alarm List is older than the Retention Period, the IMS automatically purges those old Alarm Event records if they are also inactive and acknowledged alarms. Alarms can also be manually purged through an Alarm Purge request from an O-Cloud operator. In this case, alarms to be purged are removed from the Alarm List irrespective of the Retention Period. For further information, see IETF RFC 8632 [20].
> NOTE 1: Only inactive alarms and acknowledged alarms can be purged.
> NOTE 2: A forced Purge of alarms might be used if the storage capacity for the Alarm List approaches or is at capacity;
and an operator wants to remove (e.g., warning, and minor) alarms from the Alarm List to free up space.
> NOTE 3: If an alarm condition persists after the original alarm is purged, it will reappear as a new alarm (spurred from that
same condition) back in the Alarm List.

### 3.8.24 Archiving Alarms
The concept of Archiving Alarms is defined by the operation of moving Alarm Event Records to a long-term storage or collection area.
> NOTE: The Archiving of Alarms may mean moving them off the O-Cloud to a separate off-site storage location.
Archiving alarms is likely to be handled by tiered storage paradigms which will handle the archival of alarms. This would be implementation specific.

# 2025 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. All Rights Reserved 42

## 3.9 O-Cloud Performance Basic Concepts

### 3.9.0 Overview
The following section describes basic concepts for O2 Performance Concepts. In general, the purpose of performance is to report operational information related to O-cloud resources. Typically, performance information allows an operator or administrator of the O-cloud a sense of how well the system is operating. It is distinct from faults in that it is not about failures in the system but about how well the overall system is performing. Though, faults or alarms may negatively impact performance of the O-Cloud which might be observable in performance measurements. Performance measurements are typically captured periodically through time. They are collected and stored at regular intervals by the system in order to gauge the performance of a system over a period of time. This allows for analytical operations to be performed on the collected data and statistics to be built over time. This can tell an operator or system analyst whether they have sufficient capacity in a network based on the demands of the network. This can be vital for making business operational decisions such as scaling a network. The following are basic performance related concepts that will be used in the O2 Cloud performance use cases and modeling. Cloud resources by PM Job(s) and stored locally. The Performance Subscription Manager (PSM) within the IMS can retrieve the data to be sent to the SMO. There is a consumer (subscriber) notification end point that is used to send the performance data to. The notification end point is known to the PSM from the subscription. Measurement reports are composed by the PSM and sent to the SMO. The SMO can then be used to perform analysis on the Measurement Report. Performance measurements in an O-Cloud might streamed (pushed) or it might be pulled (measurement reporting files) by a user or a PM job in the SMO (consumer). For performance measurements to be streamed, a subscription needs to be created.

# 2025 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. All Rights Reserved 43
The subscription and criteria indicate an end point for where the measurements are sent to. The notification end point can be updated by performance subscription update. The subscription will indicate the interval. A capabilities exchange could occur between the SMO and the O-Cloud indicating the mechanism & formats supported by the O-Cloud. The SMO can then subscribe to the mechanisms & formats within the subscription filter. In the capabilities exchange, the IMS would report the jobs and their collection intervals. A performance subscription can be created, queried, updated, and deleted over O2ims.

### 3.9.1 O-Cloud Performance Measurements
Measurements are defined as the act of quantitatively checking the O-Cloud resources for defined gauges of operation. A measurement is an individual quantitative gauge of a quality. For example, the O-Cloud might measure the computational performance of an O-Cloud compute resource in terms of CPU utilization.

### 3.9.2 Performance Indicators
Performance indicators take execution measurements and use them in a way that can give a meaningful notion of how a system is utilizing its resources and/or how well a system is operating. Indicators might be local in the sense of a function or more broader in scope for a group of functions. Performance indicators are typically a formula-driven application usage of performance measurements. Thus, the indicators are amenable to statistical analysis. The indicator formula needs to be exposed so that users can understand the meaning of the indicator. Indicators use a measurement, or gauge, to show an aspect of a thing. Key Performance Indicators (KPI) are performance indicators that are typically used to detect and report overall network health. For example, the CPU utilization might be a performance measurement. A performance indicator might be the fraction of time that a system is over a threshold, such as 80% CPU utilization. This would be a simple ratio calculation that could give a sense of how close to being overloaded a system is.

### 3.9.3 Performance Metric
A performance metric represents standards of measurements. Metrics might be pre-defined, or they might define performance threshold targets to try to achieve. Metrics may utilize measurements and indicators. Performance metrics could be used by O- Cloud operators to achieve OPEX business objectives. For example, a performance metric could be a target that an operator would like to have a system operate at. For example, a metric to operate at five-9’s reliability, or CPU utilization that is under a threshold.

### 3.9.4 Performance Reports
Performance reports are a collection of measurements. Usually, they are gathered in a file; however, they may also be sent as a data stream. Typically, reports are created at regular (configurable) intervals or triggered by thresholds. The creation of performance reports may also be manually invoked. For example, The O-Cloud might compose a performance report which is comprised of several performance measurements recorded and stored at regular intervals.

### 3.9.5 Performance Management (PM) Job

#### 3.9.5.1 Basic PM Job Concepts
A performance management job is a task whose purpose is to collect measurements, creating a measurement file, and get a performance report according to criteria set by the user. The criteria could be used to specify measurements to collect.
> NOTE: 3GPP standards also discuss measurement jobs see references, 3GPP TS28.550 [14], 3GPP TS28.531 [15], ETSI
SOL003 [16]. For example, a PM job might be scheduled to run at 11 PM with the criteria to retrieve CPU measurements for O-Cloud resources and compose them into a measurement report.

# 2025 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. All Rights Reserved 44
PM job can be created, queried, updated, suspended, resumed, and deleted over O2ims.

#### 3.9.5.2 PM Job States and Statuses

# A PM Job can have one of the following states. Each State is mutually exclusive from the others.
- ACTIVE – An Active PM Job is one that is operational and currently collecting one or more measurements.
- SUSPENDED – A Suspended PM Job is one that a consumer has issued an operation to stop the collection of all
measurements. A Suspended PM Job when resumed goes back to the Active state. A delete operation can only be processed for a Suspended PM Job.
- DEPRECATED – A Deprecated PM Job is one that has had a delete operation issued for it; and is now pending
delete. It is waiting on a pending purge of all the measurements collected by the PM Job from the PM Store whereupon the PM Job will be deleted. The system purges measurement(s) that are older than a configurable retention period. Measurements previously collected by the deleted PM Job could still be requested which would cause referential integrity issues if that PM Job were to be deleted which is why the Deprecated state and Pending Delete status exist.

# A PM Job can have one of the following statuses. Each Status is mutually exclusive from the others.
- RUNNING – A Running status applies to an Active PM Job that is currently performing metric collection without
issue.
- FAILED – A Failed status applies to an Active PM Job that is failed and is no longer collecting any measurements.
- DEGRADED – A Degraded status applies to an Active PM Job that is experiencing one or more issues but has not
fully failed. A Degraded PM Job could still be collecting all or some subset of its measurements.
- IDLE – An Idle status applies to a Suspended PM Job; and is therefore, no longer collecting any measurements.
- PENDING DELETE – A Pending Delete status applies to a Deprecated PM Job which remains in the Deprecated
state until all measurements associated with it have been purged. Once all its measurements have been purged, the PM Job is removed from the system.

#### 3.9.5.3 Preinstalled PM Job

# A Preinstalled PM Job is a type of PM Job that is created automatically by the O-Cloud. Preinstalled PM Jobs can be created
during O-Cloud genesis (O-Cloud start up). Preinstalled PM Jobs behave like other PM Jobs. One of the purposes of the measurements collected by Preinstalled PM Jobs is for internal O-Cloud PM operation and management. An IMS consumer cannot change or alter a Preinstalled PM Job. Preinstalled PM Jobs may be deleted by an IMS software update. The SMO or other entity can subscribe to Preinstalled PM Jobs and their attendant measurements.

### 3.9.6 Source of Truth
The source of truth is the arbiter of discrepancies in metrics. In an O-Cloud IMS Performance context, it is expected that the “source of truth” will be the O-Cloud (IMS + O-Cloud infrastructure resources). The PM job manages the transformation of data into a performance report. The PM job requests data from the O-Cloud (the Source of Truth) to build the performance report. For example, suppose there is a metric from the source of truth with a reported value of 50, and the performance report has a value of 20. That value of 20 might have been a result of corruption in sending, composition, or a software bug. In order to obtain the proper value, the source of truth can be consulted.

### 3.9.7 Performance Threshold
A performance threshold is a level or value which is used to check if a measurement exceeds or stays within. Typically, thresholds are used to trigger behavior or policies in a system. For example, a user might set a CPU utilization threshold of 80%.

# 2025 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. All Rights Reserved 45

### 3.9.8 Performance Dictionary

# A Performance Dictionary is a reference which details information on performance metrics or KPIs that are relevant to one or more O-Cloud Resource(s) and that would be reported by the IMS in the O-Cloud so that the SMO could act on those
measurements. The Performance Dictionary would be onboarded when a new O-Cloud Resource Type is added, for example during the process of 1) O-Cloud registration, 2) IMS Software update 3) O-Cloud Resource addition and 4) O-Cloud Resource software update; and that O-Cloud Resource Type would come with an associated a Performance Dictionary. The Performance Dictionary for an O-Cloud Resource includes all measurements supported by the O-Cloud Resource Type including ones defined by standards and the reference to the standard. For example, there will likely be some standardized measurements. For a CPU, that might be CPU utilization measured in percentage. However, there could also be a vendor’s CPU that might have additional features such as pinning or huge page functionality.

### 3.9.9 Performance Measurement Operation Example
PM Job is a software task that collects measurements or telemetry data from O-Cloud resource(s). The PM Job primary function is to collect measurements or telemetry data based on a schedule; and it writes its measurements to a local repository. The PSM may take the raw data from local storage of data collected from PM Jobs and transforms it from the format in the local store to a report format. For example, the PM Job #1 collects as Measurement A values 1, 3, 8. That is stored locally. The PSM takes those values to compose a performance report shown in figure 3.9-2. The blue shaded arrows are related to the PM job data collection. The red colored arrows are related to the PSM. The purple arrows are activities that happen over the O2ims interface. Resources identified as Resource #1, Resource #2, Resource #3. There are four measurements identified as Measurement-A, Measurement-B, Measurement-C, Measurement-D that originate from these three different O-Cloud Resources. In this example, Measurement-A and Measurement-B originate from Resource #1. Measurement-C originates from Resource #2 and Measurement-D comes from Resource #3. There are four PM Jobs shown that collect Measurements specified when they are created. PM Job #1 collects Measurement-A with a collection interval of every 15 minutes. PM Job #2 collects Measurement- B with a collection interval of every 30 minutes. PM Job #3 collects Measurement-C with a collection interval of every 45 minutes. PM Job #4 collects Measurement-D with a collection interval of every 15 minutes.
> NOTE: If an operator would like to adjust the collection interval of a PM Job or adjust what measurements that PM Job
is collecting it would require a PM Job update (See the PM Job Update Use Case [13].

# 2025 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. All Rights Reserved 46
The PSM within the IMS retrieves the data and composes a Measurement Report to be sent to the SMO. It does so at the specified reporting interval as defined by the subscription. For example, figure 3.9-2 shows two subscriptions. Subscription #1 has a reporting interval of 30 minutes with some combinations of measures that it reports on. Subscription #2 has a reporting interval of 60 minutes. The data store, shown as ( ) in figure 3.9-2 is an internal store in the O-Cloud that is only accessible by the O-Cloud (in this case the PM Jobs and the PSM). The PM Job(s) may also direct O-Cloud Resource(s) to directly write primitive measure(s) to a data store. The realization of the PM Jobs is left up to implementation.

### 3.9.10 Performance Measurement Transformation
Performance Measurement Transformation is defined as taking primitive performance measurements and consequently adjusting those collected primitive measurements either syntactically or semantically. There are two kinds of performance measurement transformations:
- Syntactic performance measurement transformations that change the format of the primitive measurement for storage
and later retrieval. An example of syntactic performance measurement transformation might take raw data from a O- Cloud resource and store it into a JSON or Yang format as necessary.
- Semantic performance measurement transformations occur through meaningful calculations of primitive measures.
An example of semantic performance measurement transformation are averages, means, and peaks that are derived from primitive measures. Transforming data is used during Performance Measurement reporting process. The PM Job creation would specify the measures and transformations their inputs, and outputs. An example of PM data collection using transformation is shown in figure 3.9-3, O-Cloud Network Resource #1 produces two primitive measures every minute. Measurement-A is the Network Port Traffic and Measurement-B is the Network Port VLAN Traffic. PM Job #1 collects these two primitive measures and performs semantical performance measurement transformation to produce Network VLAN percentage utilization of total port bandwidth which is Measurement A divided by Network Port Total Bandwidth. Another transformation would be Measurement B divided by Network Port Total Bandwidth because the utilization is defined as demand divided by capacity. PM Job #1 does this computation at a transformation interval of 15 minutes and writes the utilization to a local data store. Subscription #1 was created to report on the utilization. Its reporting interval is 60 minutes. Thus, it would have four data points for utilization every hour because PM Job #1 would store four data points within an hour. The Subscription #1 does not perform any further calculations.

# 2025 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. All Rights Reserved 47
Note that PM Job #1 could also collect other primitive measures as well, and directly write that into the data store. That is, PM Job #1 is not always doing a semantical calculation or performance measurement transformation on data.

### 3.9.11 Retention Period
Performance Measurement records in the Performance Measurement Store conform to a Performance Management Policy which specifies how long Measurements should be retained in the Performance Measurement Store. Performance Measurement records are retained according to the retention policy of the O-Cloud based on the configured retention period. The Performance Measurement Store has one and only one Retention Period attribute, and it applies to all entries in the Performance Measurement Store. When Performance Measurement records in the Performance Measurement Store exceed the time for retention, those records are deleted or archived. There is a relationship between a deprecated Performance Measurement Job and the retention period. A deprecated Performance Measurement Job cannot be purged until all its associated Performance Measurement records in the Performance Measurement Store are deleted due to being older than the retention period.

## 3.10 O-Cloud Operational Modes

### 3.10.1 Overview
Section 3.10 describes basic concepts related to the operational modes of O-Cloud Nodes. The state and status of the O-Cloud Nodes can be managed by SMO via O2 interfaces. In the following, the combination of the state and status of O-Cloud Nodes managed by SMO and the required operations specific to each mode are referred generically as operational modes. The following operational modes are further described: Maintenance mode (see section 3.10.2) and Test mode (see section 3.10.3). The O-Cloud operator can switch the operational mode of O-Cloud Nodes to handle specific operational requirements and events on the O-Cloud Nodes, for instance, a planned maintenance and/or functional test after fault recovery. In these cases, the behaviour and usage of O-Cloud Nodes changes according to the purposes of the operational mode. ITU-T X.731 defines administrative state and availability/control status which serves as the foundation of the maintenance mode and test mode concepts discussed here. The state transitions, what are legal states, and moving from one state to another will be described in future versions of the present document.

### 3.10.2 Maintenance Mode
Maintenance Mode is one of the operational modes of O-Cloud Nodes. The purpose of the Maintenance Mode is to indicate that it is under maintenance by changing the state of the managed entity. In Maintenance mode the resource is intended to be isolated and not used. This mode can be used in various use cases for fault recovery, O-Cloud Resources upgrade, and planned maintenance. The managed objects considered in this mode are the O-Cloud Nodes.
> NOTE 1: There could be other O-Cloud managed objects, to be described in future versions of the present document.
O-Cloud operator switches the operational mode of O-Cloud Nodes into the Maintenance Mode using the O2ims and/or O2dms. While the O-Cloud Nodes are in Maintenance Mode, NFs/NF Deployments cannot utilize the O-Cloud Resources.
> NOTE 2: Implications of Maintenance Mode to different types of O-Cloud managed objects, the detailed meaning of
Maintenance Mode for different forms of deployments (e.g., VM, container) may be described in future versions of the present document.

# 2025 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. All Rights Reserved 48

### 3.10.3 Test Mode
Test Mode is one of the operational modes of O-Cloud Nodes. The purpose of the Test Mode is to enable the means for the O- Cloud operator to test the O-Cloud Nodes using testing procedures. In Test Mode the resource can still be used but in a controlled manner typically for testing purposes. This Mode can be used after performing a maintenance of the O-Cloud Nodes, or after the O-Cloud initialization, or after installing new individual O-Cloud Nodes in the O-Cloud. The managed objects considered in this mode are the O-Cloud Nodes.
> NOTE 1: There could be other managed objects, but those may be described in future versions of the present document.
O-Cloud operator switches the operational mode of O-Cloud Nodes into the Test Mode using the O2ims. O-Cloud Operator can check that the O-Cloud Node is able to operate correctly from a functional (e.g., behaviour, capabilities) and non- functional (e.g., performance) views. While the O-Cloud Nodes are in Test Mode, only test mode NF Deployments can utilize the O-Cloud Resources.
> NOTE 2: Implications of Test Mode to different types of O-Cloud managed objects such as a Test Mode NF Deployment,
the detailed meaning of Test Mode for different forms of deployments (e.g., VM, container) may be described in future versions of the present document.
> NOTE 3: Alarm handling in Test Mode will be clarified in Alarm Suppression use case.

# 2025 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. All Rights Reserved 49


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG6.TS.O2IMS-INTERFACE-R004-v10.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG6.TS.O2IMS-INTERFACE-R004-v10.00 Technical Specification O2ims Interface Specification"
---

## 3.6 O2ims_InfrastructureLifecycleManagement Service API ............................................................................. 12 6

## 1.1 Scope
This Technical Specification has been produced by the O-RAN.org. The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within O-RAN WG6 and may change following formal O-RAN approval. Should the O-RAN.org modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released by O-RAN Alliance with an identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as follows: Release x.y.z where: x the first digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc. (the initial approved document will have x=01). y the second digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been incorporated in the document. z the third digit included only in working versions of the document indicating incremental changes during the editing process. This document defines O-RAN O-Cloud IMS interface functions and protocols for the O-RAN O2 interface. The document studies the functions conveyed over the interface, including management functions, procedures, operations and corresponding solutions, and identifies existing standards and industry work that can serve as a basis for O-RAN work.

## 1.2 References
In the case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document in 3GPP Release 18. [1] 3GPP TR 21.905: “3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications” [2] O-RAN Whitepaper [3] ORAN-WG4.MP.0-v01.00: O-RAN Alliance Working Group 4 Management Plane Specification [4] O-RAN WG1 Architecture Description [5] O-RAN WG1 OAM Architecture [6] O-RAN WG1 O1 Interface Specification [7] O-RAN WG6 Cloud Architecture and Deployment Scenarios [8] RFC 6241, “Network Configuration Protocol (NETCONF)”, IETF, June 2011 [9] RFC 7950, “The YANG 1.1 Data Modeling Language”, IETF, August 2016 [10] RFC 2119, "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels", IETF, March 1997 [11] 3GPP TS 29.501 "5G System; Principles and Guidelines for Services Definition; Stage 3" [12] 3GPP TS 29.571 "" [13] ONAP VES Event Listener Specification v7.2, May 2020 (Draft) [14] 3GPP TS 29.500: "5G System; Technical Realization of Service Based Architecture; Stage 3". [15] OpenAPI: "OpenAPI 3.0.0 Specification", https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI- Specification/blob/master/versions/3.0.0.md. [16] 3GPP TS 33.501: "Security architecture and procedures for 5G system". [17] IETF RFC 6749: "The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework". [18] 3GPP TS 29.510: "5G System; Network Function Repository Services; Stage 3". [19] IETF RFC 7540: "Hypertext Transfer Protocol Version 2 (HTTP/2)". [20] IETF RFC 8259: "The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange Format". [21] IETF RFC 7807: "Problem Details for HTTP APIs". [22] ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 v3.3.1: " Protocols and Data Models; Specification of common aspects for RESTful NFV MANO APIs", September 2020 [23] O-RAN WG6 "Orchestration Use Case and Requirements for O-RAN Virtualized RAN" [24] O-RAN WG6 "O-RAN O2 General Aspects and Principles Specification" [25] ETSI GS NFV-SOL 015v1.2.1: " Protocols and Data Models; Specification of Patterns and Conventions for RESTful NFV-MANO APIs", December 2020 [26] ISO/IEC 9646-7: "Information technology - Open Systems Interconnection - Conformance testing methodology and framework - Part 7: Implementation Conformance Statements". [27] ITU-T Recommendation X.733 (02/92): "Information technology - Open Systems Interconnection - Systems Management: Alarm reporting function". [28] ITU-T Recommendation X.736, "Information Technology - Open Systems Interconnection - System Management: Security Alarm Reporting Function', 1992" [29] IETF RFC 7396: “JSON Merge Patch” [30] IETF RFC 7230: “Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1)” [31] IETF RFC 793: “Transmission Control Protocol” [32] IETF RFC 2818: “HTTP Over TLS” [33] IETF RFC 5246: “The TLS Protocol Version 1.2” [34] IETF RFC 3986: “Uniform Resource Identifier (URI)” [35] ETSI TS 133 310: “Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS); LTE; Network Domain Security (NDS); Authentication Framework (AF)” [36] O-RAN WG6 “O-Cloud Information Model” [37] O-RAN WG10 "O-RAN Work Group 10 (OAM for O-RAN); O-RAN Information Model and Data Models Specification". [38] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 045 (V5.2.1 2024-11): "Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV) Release 4; Management and Orchestration; Faults and alarms modelling specification". [39] 3GPP TS 28.622: “Telecommunication management; Generic Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)” [40] 3GPP TS 32.404: “Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Telecommunication management; Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements” [41] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 027 V4.2.1: ” Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV) Release 4; Management and Orchestration; Performance Measurements Specification” [42] 3GPP TS 28.111: “Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Management and orchestration; Fault Management (FM)” [43] IETF RFC 3339: “Date and Time on the Internet: Timestamps” [44] IETF RFC 7946: “The GeoJSON Format” [45] IETF RFC 4676: “Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCPv4 and DHCPv6) Option for Civic Address Configuration Information” [46] O-RAN.WG11.TS.SecProtSpec: "O-RAN Work Group 11 (Security Work Group); Security Protocols Specifications"

## 1.3 Definitions and Abbreviations

### 1.3.1 Definitions
FFS.

### 1.3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR 21.905 0 and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 0. DMS O-Cloud Deployment Management Services FCAPS Fault, Configuration, Accounting, Performance, Security HATEOAS Hypermedia as the Engine of Application State IMS O-Cloud Infrastructure Management Services MANO Management and Orchestration MnS Management Service MOC Managed Object Class MOI Managed Object Instance MVP Minimum Viable Product O-RAN Open Radio Access Network ONAP Open Network Automation Platform OSM Open Source Mano RAN Radio Access Network TLS Transport Layer Security TR Technical Report TS Technical Specification SMO Service Management and Orchestration

### 2.1.1 General
Service Name Clause Description apiName O2ims_InfrastructureInventor 3.2 Service for querying the O2ims_infrastructureInventory y Services O-Cloud resources and management services. O2ims_InfrastructureMonitori 3.3 Services related to O- O2ims_infrastructureMonitoring ng Services Cloud infrastructure fault management. O2ims_InfrastructureProvision 3.4 Service for configuring the O2ims_infrastructureProvisioning ing Services O-Cloud node cluster and infrastructure resources. O2ims_InfrastructureSoftware 3.5 Services for software Not specified in the present document Management Services inventory and updating the version software used for O-Cloud infrastructure resources and management services. O2ims_InfrastructureLifecycle 3.6 Services related to O- O2ims_infrastructureLifeCycleManage Management Services Cloud infrastructure ment lifecycle management and events. O2ims_InfrastructurePerforma 3.7 Services related to O- O2ims_infrastructurePerformance nce Services Cloud infrastructure performance management O2ims_InfrastructureLogging 3.8 Services related to O- Not specified in the present document Services Cloud infrastructure version logging management The information elements for the O2ims services are contained in the O-Cloud Information Model Specification, see O- RAN WG6.O-CLOUD-IM [36].

#### 2.1.1.1 Void

#### 2.1.1.2 Void

#### 2.1.1.3 Void

#### 2.1.1.4 Void

### 2.1.2 O2ims_InfrastructureInventory Services
Any object in the O-Cloud which can generate a fault, a performance metric, or is exposed to the SMO for configuration needs to have a type, which depicts the class of object. Generally, an O-Cloud is a composition of provisioned resources serving different roles, such as compute, storage, or networking.

#### 2.1.2.1 Service description
O-Clouds contain physical, software and logical resources. The O-Cloud is the source of information for these assets but is required to provide a mechanism for asset management to account for them. The O2ims_InfrastructureInventory services provides the read-only interface to its inventory such that accounting can be achieved. The O-Cloud SHALL expose its capabilities and supported resource types to the SMO. The O2ims_InfrastructureInventory services SHALL be available only after the O-Cloud has registered its IMS endpoint with the SMO. The O2ims_InfrastructureInventory services SHALL provide the list of resource type(s) supported by the O-Cloud across all resource pools defined in its distributed deployment.

#### 2.1.2.2 Service operations

##### 2.1.2.2.1 O-Cloud Information Query
The O2ims_InfrastructureInventory service shall enable an authorized consumer to query and retrieve various information related to the O-Cloud infrastructure and its resources.
> NOTE: It is up to the protocol and data model specification to determine the one or various protocol operations
enabling the authorized consumer to retrieve the O-Cloud information. Message Direction QueryOcloudInfoRequest SMO → O-Cloud QueryOcloudInfoResponse O-Cloud → SMO The input parameters sent when invoking the operation shall support means to:
- Filter to select which information is queried about the supported Inventory Infrastructure Service Objects which
can be any subclass of the InfrastructureInventoryObject as depicted in the Information Model, see O-RAN WG6.O-CLOUD-IM [36], clause 4.2.1.3.2.1. Filtering the Service Objects by their names, identifiers, metadata information and status information shall be supported. When the filter results in no matching Service Objects, the operation shall return an empty list.
- Select the list of attributes of information of the supported Inventory Infrastructure Service Objects to be
returned matching the filter. An absence of attribute selection shall return the complete information of the Service Objects matching the filter the authorized consumer is allowed to query. The Query operation shall support returning information about one or a set of service objects (i.e., list/array of service objects). The Query Service Operation shall support the ability to handle a large amount of data in return sets as described in ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22], clause 5.4.2.1. As a result of this operation, the producer (O-Cloud) shall indicate to the consumer whether the query was processed successfully. If the operation is not successful, the O-Cloud shall return to the consumer appropriate error information. An example of an error case is where the query filter is malformed, or attributes are not able to be processed. The Alarm Dictionary Discovery and Performance Dictionary Discovery are pertinent use cases for this Service Operation. Those relate to this operation because the dictionary data for those use cases are contained within the Inventory Objects associated with this Service. See O-RAN WG6.ORCH-USE-CASES [23], clause 3.7.9, and 3.8.11 respectively for more details. The full requirements definitions can be found in O-RAN WG6.ORCH-USE-CASES [23], clause 4.3. The following identifiers uniquely specify the requirements applicable to the producer (O-Cloud) for this operation: [REQ-ORC-O2- 53].

##### 2.1.2.2.2 O-Cloud Inventory Event Notifications
The O2ims_InfrastructureInventory service shall provide a consumer who has established a valid subscription to be notified when an event which matches the subscription filter selection criteria to be sent to the consumer (SMO).
> NOTE: It is up to the protocol and data model specification to determine the one or various protocol operations
enabling the authorized consumer to subscribe to the notification service, and to allow the notification service to invoke the specified callback procedure. Message Direction SubscribeInfrastructureInventoryRequest SMO → O-Cloud SubscribeInfrastructureInventoryResponse O-Cloud → SMO InfrastructureInventoryEventNotification O-Cloud → SMO The information representing one subscription shall follow the provisions indicated in table 2.1.2.2.2-2. Attribute Qualifier Description consumerSubscriptionId M The consumer may provide its identifier for tracking, routing, or identifying the subscription used to report the event. notificationEventType M The type (CREATE, MODIFY, DELETE) of event being reported objectRef M The resultant reference to the object on which the action occured priorObjectState M If the Event type is 'MODIFY' or 'DELETE' this this field will be populated with a copy of the object prior to the event. postObjectState M If the Event type is 'CREATE' or 'MODIFY' this this field will be populated with a copy of the object after the event. The Alarm Dictionary Discovery and Performance Dictionary Discovery are pertinent use cases for this Service Operation. Dictionary data is sent via an O-Cloud Inventory Event Notification. See O-RAN WG6.ORCH-USE-CASES [23], clause 3.7.9, and 3.8.11 respectively for more details. The full requirements definitions can be found in O-RAN WG6.ORCH-USE-CASES [23], clause 4. The following identifiers uniquely specify the requirements applicable to the producer (O-Cloud) for this operation: [REQ-ORC- GEN13], [REQ-ORC-O2-8].

### 2.1.3 O2ims_InfrastructureMonitoring Services

#### 2.1.3.1 Alarm Services
Any object in the Infrastructure Inventory can generate faults. Also, a consumer such as the SMO may want to monitor the reachability of the IMS and therefore request a heartbeat message to be periodically sent. The O2ims_InfrastructureMonitoring services provide these. IMS Heartbeat is not specified in the present document version. It is important to understand the differences between faults and alarms. All faults are logged, only some faults may be worthy of being an alarm. Policies within the IMS determine if a fault or set of faults warrant an alarm to be created. All Alarms are also logged. The following services are associated with alarms.

##### 2.1.3.1.1 Service description
The O-Cloud has a historical table of past and active alarms. The SMO or any other consumer with permissions can query this table for trending analysis, correlation, or synchronization. Additionally, the service provides the ability to subscribe to alarm events which are evaluated whenever a change occurs to an AlarmEventRecord. For a complete list of requirements see the O-Cloud Alarm related use cases in O-RAN WG6.ORCH-USE-CASES [23].

##### 2.1.3.1.2 Service operations
2.1.3.1.2.1 Query Alarm Information The O2ims_ InfrastructureMonitoring service shall enable an authorized consumer to query and retrieve AlarmEventRecord information related to the O-Cloud infrastructure and its resources.
> NOTE: It is up to the protocol and data model specification to determine the one or various protocol operations
enabling the authorized consumer to retrieve the O-Cloud information. The information elements of an AlarmEventRecord are specified in the O-Cloud Information Model, see O-RAN WG6.O-CLOUD-IM [36], clause 4.2.1.4.10. Message Direction QueryOcloudAlarmRequest SMO → O-Cloud QueryOcloudAlarmResponse O-Cloud → SMO The input parameters sent when invoking the operation shall support means to:
- Filter to select which information is queried about the supported service objects specified in clause 2.1.3.1.2.
Filtering by names, identifiers, metadata information and status information shall be supported.
- Select the list of attributes of information of the supported service objects to be returned matching the filter. An
absence of attribute selection shall return the complete information of the service objects matching the filter the authorized consumer is allowed to query. The query operation shall support returning information about one or a set of service objects (i.e., list/array of service objects). As a result of this operation, the producer (O-Cloud) shall indicate to the consumer whether the query was processed successfully. If the operation is not successful, the O-Cloud shall return to the consumer appropriate error information. The full requirements defintions can be found in O-RAN WG6.ORCH-USE-CASES [23]. The following identifiers uniquely identify the requirements applicable to this operation: [REQ-ORC-O2-17], [REQ-ORC-O2-18], [REQ-ORC-O2-21], [REQ-ORC-O2-22], [REQ-ORC-O2-25]. 2.1.3.1.2.2 Infrastructure Alarm Acknowledge The O2ims_InfrastructureMonitoring service shall enable an authorized consumer to acknowledge an AlarmEventRecord recorded in the IMS.
> NOTE: It is up to the protocol and data model specification to determine the one or various protocol operations
enabling the authorized consumer to acknowledge an alarm. Message Direction AcknowledgeInfrastructureAlarmRequest SMO → O-Cloud AcknowledgeInfrastructureAlarmResponse O-Cloud → SMO The input parameters sent when invoking the operation shall support the means to:
- identify the specific AlarmEventRecord to be acknowledged.
As a result of this operation, the producer (O-Cloud) shall indicate to the consumer whether the AlarmEventRecord was acknowledged successfully. If the operation is not successful, the O-Cloud shall return to the consumer appropriate error information. The full requirements defintions can be found in O-RAN WG6.ORCH-USE-CASES [23]. The following identifiers uniquely identify the requirements applicable to this operation: [REQ-ORC-O2-27], [REQ-ORC-O2-29] 2.1.3.1.2.3 Infrastructure Alarm Clear The O2ims_InfrastructureMonitoring service shall enable an authorized consumer to clear an AlarmEventRecord recorded in the IMS which requires manual clearing by its definition in the alarm dictionary.
> NOTE: It is up to the protocol and data model specification to determine the one or various protocol operations
enabling the authorized consumer to clear an alarm. Message Direction ClearInfrastructureAlarmRequest SMO → O-Cloud ClearInfrastructureAlarmResponse O-Cloud → SMO The input parameters sent when invoking the operation shall support the means to:
- identify the specific AlarmEventRecord to be cleared.
> NOTE: If the identified entry is defined with a clearing type of AUTOMATIC then it is up to the cloud vendor
implementation on how this will affect the AlarmEventRecord and the ClearInfrastructureAlarmResponse. One example implementation may allow manual clear of an automatic alarm and if the O-Cloud re-detects the fault a new alarm is issued. Another implementation example may reject the request and leave the AlarmEventRecord unchanged. As a result of this operation, the producer (O-Cloud) shall indicate to the consumer whether the AlarmEventRecord was cleared successfully. If the operation is not successful, the O-Cloud shall return to the consumer appropriate error information. The full requirements defintions can be found in O-RAN WG6.ORCH-USE-CASES [23]. The following identifiers uniquely identify the requirements applicable to this operation: [REQ-ORC-O2-28], [REQ-ORC-O2-30]. 2.1.3.1.2.4 Infrastructure Alarm Event Notifications The O2ims_InfrastructureMonitoring service shall provide a consumer who has established a valid subscription to alarms to be notified when an event which matches the subscription filter criteria to be sent to the consumer (SMO).
> NOTE: It is up to the protocol and data model specification to determine the one or various protocol operations
enabling the authorized consumer to subscribe to the notification service, and to allow the notification service to invoke the specified callback procedure. Message Direction SubscribeInfrastructureAlarmRequest SMO → O-Cloud SubscribeInfrastructureAlarmResponse O-Cloud → SMO InfrastructureAlarmEventNotification O-Cloud → SMO The information sent in an InfrastructureAlarmEventNotification shall contain the information specified in the AlarmEvent as specified in the O-Cloud Information Model, see O-RAN WG6.O-CLOUD-IM [36], clause 4.2.1.4.11.As a result of this operation, the producer (O-Cloud) shall indicate to the consumer whether the subscription was processed successfully. If the operation is not successful, the O-Cloud shall return to the consumer appropriate error information. The full requirements defintions can be found in O-RAN WG6.ORCH-USE-CASES [23]. The following identifiers uniquely identify the requirements applicable to this operation: [REQ-ORC-O2-14], [REQ-ORC-O2-15], [REQ-ORC-O2-23], [REQ-ORC-O2-24] 2.1.3.1.2.5 Infrastructure Alarm Purge Normally alarms are removed from the AlarmList when they age past the retentionPeriod. The Infrastructure Alarm Purge operation deletes inactive and acknowledged alarms based on parameters in the InfrastructureAlarmPurgeRequest from the alarm list irrespective of the retentionPeriod. The Alarm Purge operation is requested by the service consumer (SMO). To see a complete description of this operation, refer to O-RAN.WG6.ORCH-USE-CASES [23], clause 3.7.13. pattern. Message Direction InfrastructureAlarmPurgeRequest SMO → O-Cloud InfrastructureAlarmPurgeResponse O-Cloud → SMO The input parameters sent when invoking the operation shall support the means to:
- identify the specific AlarmEventRecord(s) to be purged based on attributes of the AlarmEventRecord
described in the O-Cloud Information Model, see O-RAN WG6.O-CLOUD-IM [36], clause 4.2.1.4.10. When this operation is successful, it will result in AlarmEventRecords contained in the AlarmList to be removed irrespective of the retentionPeriod. The full requirements definitions can be found in O-RAN.WG6.ORCH-USE-CASES [23], clause 4.3. The following identifiers uniquely specify the requirements applicable to this operation: [REQ-ORC-O2-98]. 2.1.3.1.2.6 Alarm List Configure The Alarm List Configure enables the SMO to view/set attributes which configure the behavior of Alarm List Management at the IMS. The request for Alarm List Configure is sent from the FOCOM towards the IMS. The request has parameters which describe the attributes associated with an Alarm List to be configured. To see a complete description of the Alarm List Configure operation, refer to O-RAN.WG6.ORCH-USE-CASES [23], clause 3.7.11. The IMS keeps all the current alarms in an Alarm List. The Retention Period of alarms can be changed by the Alarm List Configure operation. After the Retention Period expires, alarms in the Alarm List will be purged or archived based on alarm policy. For example, the Alarm List Configure request could have an attribute to specify to Retention Period by the IMS of Compute Node alarms (resource types) for 72 hours. When the current value of the retentionPeriod is reduced then the Alarm Purge Use Case is triggered, found in O-RAN.WG6.ORCH-USE- CASES [23], clause 3.7.13. Another Alarm List Configure operation could adjust the value(s) in the Extension attribute list of the Alarm List. Additional extensions attributes in the Alarm List Management request could change other aspects of Alarm List Management behavior. This would allow for implementation specific behavior. For example, an extension attribute might cause alarms to be purged or archived based on triggers. Extensions might define overflow behavior, or Alarm List composition handling. pattern over O2 IMS. Message Direction AlarmListConfigureRequest SMO → O-Cloud AlarmListConfigureResponse O-Cloud → SMO The input parameters sent when invoking the operation shall support the means to modify the attributes of the AlarmList as specified in the O-Cloud Information Model, see O-RAN WG6.O-CLOUD-IM [36], clause 4.2.1.4.13:
- Provide updated values of the Retention Period applicable to the alarms in the Alarm List, and
- Provide values for the extension attribute list applicable to the Alarm List.
When this operation is successful, it will result in a change of the Alarm List management behavior. The full requirements definitions can be found in O-RAN.WG6.ORCH-USE-CASES [23], clause 4.3. The following identifiers uniquely specify the requirements applicable to this operation: [REQ-ORC-O2-74].

#### 2.1.3.2 Void

#### 2.1.3.3 Void

### 2.1.4 O2ims_InfrastructureProvisioning Services

#### 2.1.4.1 O-Cloud Node Cluster and Infrastructure Declarative Service

##### 2.1.4.1.1 Service description
The O-Cloud Node Cluster and Infrastructure Declarative Service provides services for allocating, deallocating, and configuring O-Cloud Resources based on a declarative target request, referred as ProvisioningRequest. By means of the ProvisioningRequest, the consumer (SMO) can request to provision an O-Cloud Node Cluster and/or O-Cloud Infrastructure Resource(s). Additionally, the O-Cloud Node Cluster and Infrastructure Declarative Service offers the capability to a consumer of listing and reading existing ProvisioningRequests. This includes reading the status of ongoing creation, update, and deletion operations related to the declarative target execution of the ProvisioningRequests.

##### 2.1.4.1.2 Service operations
2.1.4.1.2.1 ProvisioningRequest Management Operations According to the O-RAN WG6.O-CLOUD-IM [36], the ProvisioningRequest represents a request for item(s), such as an O-Cloud Node Cluster and/or O-Cloud Infrastructure Resource(s), to be provisioned within the O-Cloud. The ProvisioningRequest is a declarative target request issued by the SMO to the O-Cloud via the O-Cloud Node Cluster and Infrastructure Declarative service over the O2ims interface.O-Cloud Node Cluster and Infrastructure Declarative service operations follow a request-response pattern. Table 2.1.4.1.2.1-1 lists the service operations requested from the SMO to the O-Cloud to manage ProvisioningRequest. Message Direction ProvisioningRequestCreateRequest SMO → O-Cloud ProvisioningRequestCreateResponse O-Cloud → SMO ProvisioningRequestReadRequest SMO → O-Cloud ProvisioningRequestReadResponse O-Cloud → SMO ProvisioningRequestUpdateRequest SMO → O-Cloud ProvisioningRequestUpdateResponse O-Cloud → SMO ProvisioningRequestDeleteRequest SMO → O-Cloud ProvisioningRequestDeleteResponse O-Cloud → SMO
> NOTE: For simplicity and readiability reasons, the response from the O-Cloud to SMO for each Service
operations are not depicted in the Figure 2.1.4.1.2.1-1. The information sent in a ProvisioningRequest shall include the information specified in the ProvisioningRequest as outlined in the O-Cloud Information Model, see O-RAN WG6.O-CLOUD-IM [36], clause 4.2.4.4.1. In response to this operation, the producer (O-Cloud) shall indicate to the consumer (SMO) whether the request has been accepted for processing. If the request is not accepted, the O-Cloud shall return appropriate error information to the consumer. The processing of the ProvisioningRequest is an asynchronous operation, where requested fulfilment of the given declarative target of the ProvisioningRequest can or cannot be fulfilled, as processing can fail during its execution. If or when the ProvisioningRequest is eventually fulfilled or fails, the producer (O-Cloud) shall update the ProvisioningRequest status by updating the provisioningPhase. For more details, see O-RAN WG6.O-CLOUD-IM [36], clause 4.2.4.4.2. The consumer (SMO) can send a read request for the ProvisioningRequest, for instance, while it is under processing and receive the current status of the ProvisioningRequest. The response to the read ProvisioningRequest will indicate the provisioning phase by means of the "provisioningPhase" attribute information. The create and update O-Cloud Node Cluster using O-Cloud Template are applicable use cases for this service operations. See O-RAN WG6.ORCH-USE-CASES [23], clause 3.11.2.3 and 3.11.4.3 for more details. The full requirements definitions can be found in O-RAN WG6.ORCH-USE-CASES [23], clause 4. The following identifiers uniquely specify the requirements applicable to the producer (O-Cloud) for this operation: [REQ-ORC-O2- 49], [REQ-ORC-O2-92], [REQ-ORC-O2-93], [REQ-ORC-O2-108] and the requirement applicable to the comsumer (SMO) for this operation: [REQ-ORC-O2-91], [REQ-ORC-O2-107].

### 2.1.5 O2ims_InfrastructureSoftwareManagement Services

#### 2.1.5.1 Service description
The O2ims_InfrastructureSoftware Management services support procedures that enable SMO/FOCOM to initiate the software update process for the O-Cloud Infrastructure Management software, the Deployment Management software, Server OS Software, updates, and patches, and firmware updates for accelerators. For initial release the O-Cloud software can be manually updated. Therefore, the orchestrated Software Update procedure is deferred FFS.

### 2.1.6 O2ims_InfrastructureLifecycleManagement Services

#### 2.1.6.1 Service description
Although O-Clouds are usually built for future capacity, they are not static. Physical resources can become defective or obsolete. Also, the O-Cloud may grow beyond its initial deployed capacity. These activities represent life cycle events to the O-Cloud. Automation is expected to offload manual processes due to the high numbers expected of O-Cloud instances. O2ims_InfrastructureLifecycleManagement Services support procedures for the automation of O-Clouds lifecycle events.

#### 2.1.6.2 Service operations
Primary Use cases for O-Cloud Genesis and O-Cloud Scaling are FFS. However, for this release the Notification to a callback specified at the onset of O-Cloud Genesis is defined.

##### 2.1.6.2.1 O-Cloud Available Event Notification
The O2ims_InfrastructureLifecycle service shall provide a consumer who was established at the onset of O-Cloud Genesis. Data expected to be included with the callback URI in the genesis data is the globalCloudId, each globalLocationID, and each AssetID for infrastructure at those locations. Once enough of the O-Cloud is discovered, provisioned and is available for additional provisioning or workload deployments, the O-Cloud shall send the O- CloudAvailableEvent to the consumer (SMO), thus registering its InfrastructureManagementServiceEndPoint with the SMO. After receiving the notification, the SMO will interrogate the InfrastructureInventory APIs to account for corporate assets and discover the DMS service endpoints to allow workloads to be deployed.
> NOTE: It is up to the protocol and data model specification to determine the one or various protocol operations
enabling the notification service to invoke the specified callback procedure. Message Direction OCloudAvailableNotification O-Cloud → SMO The information representing O-Cloud Available Notification shall follow the provisions indicated in the O-Cloud Information Model, see O-RAN WG6.O-CLOUD-IM [36], clause 4.2.1.4.9.

### 2.1.7 O2ims_InfrastructurePerformance Services

#### 2.1.7.1 Service description
The Service Operations described in the following clauses relate to Performance Management functions. These operations fall into four basic categories: Performance Measurement Job, Performance Management Reporting, Performance Management Subscription handling, and Performance Management configuration. Each of these service operations relates to the four areas in the Information Model related to Performance Management: Performance Measurement Store, Performance Measurement Report, Performance Subscription and Performance Measurement Jobs. See the O-RAN WG6.O-CLOUD-IM [36] for more details. The functions described in the following service operations collectively provide fundamental operations which enable a management system, such as the SMO, to setup Performance Measurement Jobs, to establish Performance Management Subscriptions (to receive reports), to configure Performance Management behaviour, and to interact with a Performance Measurement Store. There are Service Operations to Create, Query, Delete, Update, Suspend and Resume Performance Measurement Jobs. There are also Service Operations for Performance Management Subscription Query, Performance Management Subscription Update and Performance Management Subscription Delete. Once running, an entity, such as the SMO, can establish Performance Management Subscriptions to receive the collected Performance Measurements. Service Operations relate to functioning of both kinds of Performance Measurement Jobs. Within the O-Cloud, there are Performance Measurement Jobs and preinstalled Performance Measurement Jobs. These have the function of collecting Performance Measurements from O-Cloud Resources and storing them into a Performance Measurement Store. The behaviour of Performance Management reporting can be controlled by Performance Management Service Operations. There are three ways that an entity could receive Performance Measurement reports: through file reporting, notification reporting or streaming. Service Operations can also alter the Performance Management behaviour through the Performance Management Configure Service Operation, the Performance Measurement Job Update Service Operation, and Performance Management Subscription Update Service Operation.

#### 2.1.7.2 Service operations

##### 2.1.7.2.1 Performance Measurement Job Query
Performance Measurement (PM) Jobs collect performance data on O-Cloud infrastructure resources. The O2ims_ InfrastructureMonitoring service shall enable an authorized consumer to query and retrieve PerformanceMeasurementJob information and its attributes for PM Jobs that reside in the O-Cloud. The PM Job Query Service enables a consumer to:
- Query for all PM Jobs in the Active State including default PM Jobs (based on Owner).
- Query for PM Jobs in the Suspended State.
- Query for PM Jobs in the Deprecated State because of delete operations that have not yet been purged.
- Query for certain PM Jobs by indicating specific PM Job IDs in the query filter.
> NOTE 1: It is up to the protocol and data model specification to determine the one or various protocol operations
enabling the authorized consumer to retrieve the Performance Measurement Job information. pattern. Message Direction PerformanceMeasurementJobQueryRequest SMO → O-Cloud PerformanceMeasurementJobQueryResponse O-Cloud → SMO The input parameters sent when invoking the operation shall support the means to:
- Specify a filter that defines the selection of PM Jobs to be included in the results. The attributes for filtering of
the PerformanceMeasurementJob Information Object Class are specified in O-Cloud Information Model, see O-RAN WG6.O-CLOUD-IM [36], clause 4.2.1.4.16. Thus, the filter supports the requests based on PM Job IDs, PM Job status, PM Job owner, and PM Job states.
- Specify the list of associated attributes for the filtered PM Jobs to be returned in the results. An absence of
attribute specification shall return the complete information of filtered PM Jobs back to the requestor.
> NOTE 2: There is only one filter and only one list of associated attributes. Thus, for all filtered PM Jobs the request
returns the same set of associated attributes. The PM Job query operation shall support returning information about one or a set of filtered PM Jobs. The service operation shall support the ability to handle a large amount of data in return sets as described in ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22], clause 5.4.2.1. As a result of this operation, the producer (O-Cloud) shall indicate to the consumer whether the query was processed successfully. If the operation is not successful, the O-Cloud shall return to the consumer appropriate error information. The full requirements definitions can be found in O-RAN WG6.ORCH-USE-CASES [23], clause 4.3. The following identifiers uniquely specify the requirements applicable to the producer (O-Cloud) for this operation: [REQ-ORC-O2- 57].

##### 2.1.7.2.2 Performance Management Configure
The Performance Management Configure Service operation enables a requesting entity, such as the SMO, to configure the behavior of the Performance Management system. This Service Operation complements the Performance Measurement Job Creation Service Operation, Performance Measurement Job Update Service Operation, Performance Management Subscription Service Operation and, Performance Management Subscription Update Service Operation which are other Service Operations that can alter the behavior of Performance Management functionality. The Performance Management Configure Service Operation enables a requesting entity, such as the SMO, to modify the Retention Period attribute or the Extension attribute list in the PerformanceMeasureStore. The Performance Management Configure Service Operation can be used to adjust the value(s) in the Extension attribute list of the PerformanceMeasurementStore. Updates to the Extensions attribute list from the Performance Management Configure request can change other aspects of Performance Management behavior, hence enabling for implementation specific behavior. The Retention Period is described in the O-RAN.WG6.O2-GA&P [24], clause 3.9.11 and in the O-Cloud Information Model, see O_RAN WG6.O-CLOUD-IM [36], clause 4.2.1.4.14.2. over the O2ims interface. Message Direction PerformanceManagementConfigure SMO → O-Cloud Request PerformanceManagementConfigure O-Cloud → SMO Response The input parameters sent when invoking this Service Operation shall support the means to:
- Identify the objects with the attributes to configure. For updating the Retention Period or Extension attributes,
this relates to the Performance Measurement Store object.
- Provide updated value of the Retention Period for the requested object to be configured.
- Provide updated value(s) for the Extension attribute list of the requested object(s) to be configured.
When this Service Operation is successful, it will result in modification of the Performance Management behavior. A description of the Performance Management Configuration Use Case which is relevant to this Service Operation can be found in O-RAN.WG6.ORCH-USE-CASES [23], clause 3.8.15. The full requirements definitions can be found in O-RAN.WG6.ORCH-USE-CASES [23], clause 4.3. The following identifiers uniquely specify the requirements applicable to this operation: [REQ-ORC-O2-100].

##### 2.1.7.2.3 Performance Measurement Job Create
Performance Measurement Jobs collect performance measurements and metrics on O-Cloud infrastructure resources. The O2ims_ InfrastructureMonitoring service shall enable an authorized consumer to create a Performance Measurement Job in the O-Cloud over the O2 interface. The requested Performance Measurement Job would be in addition to the Preinstalled Performance Measurement Jobs that would already be running in the O-Cloud. For further information on Performance Measurement Jobs, see O-RAN WG6 O2 GA&P [24], Clause 3.9.5. For further information on the Performance Measurement Job Creation Use Case, see O-RAN WG6 ORCH-USE-CASES [23], Clause 3.8.1. To create a Performance Measurement Job, a requestor would provide the following upon invoking the service operation:
- Consumer Performance Job Id – This is an identifier provided by the consumer for purposes of managing PM
Jobs. This value could be the same across multiple instances of a PM Job.
- Collection Interval - This is provided by the requestor at time of Performance Measurement Job creation to
define the interval at which performance measurements will be collected and stored.
- Resource Scope Criteria – The Resource Scope Criteria determines the value set for the Qualified Resource
Types. It allows for the requestor of the Service Operation to indicate the list of Resources of interest from which measurements are to be collected. This criterion determines, the value set for the Qualified Resource Types (See Note).
- Measurement Selection Criteria – This is provided by the requestor at time of Performance Measurement Job
creation to describe the measurements and/or resources that the PM Job is responsible for collecting and calculating. If a Resource Type is specified in the order, then the Performance Measurement Job operations applies to all resources of that Resource Type. From the Resource Scope Criteria, the Resource Types of interest can be calculated and from that the relevant PM Dictionaries. The Measurement Selection Criteria can then use these PM Dictionaries to identify the measurements of interest.
- Extensions - These are unspecified properties (key/value) which extend the information provided about the
Performance Measurement Job
> NOTE: It is up to the protocol and data model specification to determine the one or various protocol operations
enabling the authorized consumer to retrieve the Performance Measurement Job information. pattern. Message Direction PerformanceMeasurementJobCreateRequest SMO → O-Cloud PerformanceMeasurementJobCreateResponse O-Cloud → SMO The input parameters sent when invoking the operation shall support the means to:
- Specify an order that defines the Resource Scope Criteria, Measured Resources and Resources Type which
indicates the pertinent resources for the Performance Measurement Job. From these the relevant PM Dictionaries can be identified.
- Specify an order that defines the Measurement Selection Criteria that the Performance Measurement Job
would be responsible for. The relevant attributes given in an order to create a PerformanceMeasurementJob Information Object Class are specified in O-Cloud Information Model in O-RAN WG6.O-CLOUD-IM [36], see clause 4.2.1.4.16.2. As a result of the PM Job Create service operation, the producer (O-Cloud) shall indicate to the consumer whether the PM Job Create service operation was processed successfully. As a result, this operation will return the status of the newly created PM jobs running in the IMS. If the operation is not successful, the O-Cloud shall return to the consumer the appropriate error information. The producer determines the Measured Resources as a list of Resources relevant to the PM Job; it is a read-only attribute derived from the Measurement Selection Criteria. Furthermore, the Collected Measurements are derived from the Resource Scope Criteria and Measurement Selection Criteria; this gives the measurements to be collected by the PM Job. The Qualified Resource Types are computed from the evaluation of the Measurement Selection Criteria, thus is derived during the PM Job Create Service Operation. It is also part of the Information Model. These are byproducts of the operation inputs. The computation from the Resource Scope Criteria results in a unique set of Resource Types relevant to the PM Job create service operation. From those resources, Resource Types of interest can be calculated. From those, the associated PM Dictionaries can be deduced. From the Measurement Selection Criteria, the Qualified Measurements that the PM Job is responsible for are calculated. The Qualified Resource Type allows an operator to check these interim results. After the service operation is complete, the IMS puts the PM Job into the Active State; and it immediately starts collecting measurements based on its collection interval. The full requirements definitions can be found in O-RAN WG6.ORCH-USE-CASES [23], clause 4.3. The following identifiers uniquely specify the requirements applicable to the producer (O-Cloud) for this operation: [REQ-ORC-O2- 32].

##### 2.1.7.2.4 Performance Management Subscription Create
The purpose of the Performance Subscription Create Service Operation is to create Subscriptions related to Performance Management. The Performance Management Subscription Create operation is vital because Subscriptions first need to be created before Performance Measurements Reports can be created by the producer. Each subscription is associated with one subscriber. Each subscriber can have many subscriptions. Each Subscriber (consumer) has a consumer subscription identifier. However, the value could be the same across multiple instances of IMS subscription instances. A subscription only supports one reporting mechanism. During the Query Information service operation, read-only attributes will provide an entity or the SMO with a capabilities assessment which indicate the protocol(s) supported for reporting, mechanism(s), and format(s) supported by the O-Cloud. Then, an entity or the SMO can subscribe to the mechanism(s) and format(s) by indicating them within the subscription filter. In the capabilities exchange, the IMS would report the Performance Measurement Jobs and their associated collection intervals. During the Performance Management Subscription Create Service Operation, the creation request will indicate an endpoint for where the Performance Measurement Report(s) will be sent to. The subscription filter qualifies what data from the Performance Measurement Jobs will be sent. The Performance Management Subscription Create Service Operation will indicate the Subscription reporting interval. Performance Measurements in an O-Cloud might be sent through event notification reporting, stream-based reporting, or file-based reporting to a subscriber. To create a Performance Management Subscription the following list explains the usage of the parameters that can be provided in service operation:
- Consumer Performance Subscription ID – This identifier can be optionally provided to indicate a consumer
performance subscription which may be used to manage performance data. This value could be the same across multiple instances of IMS subscription instances.
- Resource and Resource Types – The Resources and Resource Types of interest can be provided by the
requestor of the Service Operation.
- Measurement Selection Criteria – This is provided by the requestor at time of Performance Management
Subscription creation to describe the measurement(s) of interest.
- Report Format – The Report format indicates whether the subscription is expected to be fulfilled through
Event Notifications, File-based reporting or through a Stream. For Event Notifications, performance data is sent at the specified intervals. For File-base reporting, a file is generated, which can then be retrieved by the consumer. For Stream based reporting, a session will remain open and continue to send the data in a streaming format, e.g., Google Protocol Buffers (GPB), at the specified intervals until the session or subscription is terminated. Reporting use cases can be found in O-RAN WG6.ORCH-USE-CASES [23], clause 3.8.3, 3.8.4 and 3.8.5.
- Callback – The Performance Subscription Creation operation can (optionally) provide an end point for where
Performance subscription reporting notifications are sent. For File-based reporting, the Callback is an endpoint where a file ready notification is sent. For Event-based reporting, the Callback is an endpoint where to send performance data to. The field is not required if the report format is Stream because the Callback is not used.
- Measurement Reporting Frequency – This is used to establish Performance monitoring processes. This
indicates the periodicity that specified performance data shall be sent. Each process definition can have a Subscription Mode, Report Interval, Suppress Redundant Flag, and Heartbeat Interval. The Subscription Mode can be Target Defined, On Change, or Sampled. If Target Defined it is left up to the Producer when to send data. If On Change, data is sent whenever the value changes. If it is Sampled, it is sent regularly with a periodicity of the Report Interval. If the Suppress Redundant Flag is set to true, the process shall not send data at the Sample Report Interval if the value has not changed unless the Heartbeat Interval is set to a non-zero value. If the Heartbeat Interval is set it will always send data samples regularly.
- Remote File Location – This provides a destination for the consumer to push Performance Files to.
Performance Files produced in the O-Cloud can be retrieved by the consumer as in a pull paradigm. If a consumer wants to retrieve Performance Files, the callback is given in the Performance Subscription Create operation. When the Performance Files are ready, the callback is used as a notification endpoint for the O-Cloud to inform the consumer that the Performance Files are ready to be pulled. Performance Files can also be delivered by the producer as in a push paradigm. In this case, the consumer will provide a Remote File Location (as an attribute in the operation) that the producer (O-Cloud) can upload the Performance Files to. Here, the callback is the endpoint where the Performance Files Ready notification is sent. This informs the consumer that the Performance Files have been uploaded. In the push paradigm, what happens to the files after the producer sends the Performance files to the remote file location is implementation specific. The Performance Subscription can establish multiple monitoring processes. Each of those can have different Reporting Frequencies. Each of those processes could have different Subscription Modes, with Target Defined (producer determined), On Change or reported at every Reporting Interval. It is also possible to have a process report data periodically as defined by a heartbeat interval regardless of change when the suppress redundancy is set to true. For example, one process within the Performance Subscription could report data only when a target changes value, another process within that same Performance Subscription may report data every 8 minutes (on the heartbeat interval).
> NOTE: It is up to the protocol and data model specification to determine the one or various protocol operations
enabling the authorized consumer to do a Performance Management Subscription create operation. response,and notification patterns. Message Direction PerformanceManagementSubscriptionCreateRequest SMO → O-Cloud PerformanceManagementSubscriptionCreateResponse O-Cloud → SMO FileReadyNotification O-Cloud → SMO The input parameters sent when invoking the operation shall support the means to:
- Consumer Performance Subscription ID – This optional input parameter is a string without requirements on
the format that can be provided by the requestor. This value could be the same across multiple instances of IMS subscription instances.
- Resources – This would be provided in the Global Subscription Criteria. The Resources are key-value pairs
that indicate the Resource(s) of interest for the subscription.
- Resource Types – This is provided in a Global Subscription Criteria. The Resource Types are key-value pairs
that indicate the Resource Type(s) of interest for the subscription.
- Measurement Selection Criteria – This is provided in the Performance Management Subscription to describe
the measurement(s) of interest.
- Report Format – The report format is provided indicating whether the Performance subscription is fulfilled
via Event Notifications, File-based reporting, or Stream reporting.
- Callback – A Callback can be provided in the Performance Subscription as an endpoint to send Performance-
related notifications to.
- Measurement Reporting Frequency – This is an array of definitions which is used to establish Performance
monitoring processes. Each process definition can have a Subscription Mode, Report Interval, Suppress Redundant Flag, and Heartbeat Interval.
- Remote File Location – This provides a destination for the consumer to push Performance Files to.
The full requirements definitions can be found in O-RAN WG6.ORCH-USE-CASES [23], clause 4.3. The following identifiers uniquely specify the requirements applicable to the producer (O-Cloud) for this operation: [REQ-ORC-O2- 38]. Requirements related to the endpoint for where the Performance Measurement Reports will be sent to are described [REQ-ORC-O2-39], [REQ-ORC-O2-40], [REQ-ORC-O2-42].

##### 2.1.7.2.5 Performance Measurement Job Delete
Performance Measurement Jobs collect performance measurements and metrics on O-Cloud infrastructure resources. The O2ims_InfrastructurePerformance service shall enable an authorized consumer to delete a Performance Measurement Job(s) in the O-Cloud over the O2 interface. An authorized consumer needs to first suspend a Performance Measurement Job before it can be deleted. The Preinstalled Performance Measurement Jobs cannot be deleted. For further information on Performance Measurement Jobs, see O-RAN WG6 O2 GA&P [24], Clause 3.9.5. For further information on the Performance Measurement Job Delete Use Case, see O-RAN WG6 ORCH-USE-CASES [23], Clause 3.8.7. To delete one or more Performance Measurement Job(s), a requestor would provide the following upon invoking the service operation:
- Performance Measurement Job Id(s) – This is a list of one or more identifiers provided by the consumer that
identifies Performance Measurement Job(s) to be deleted. pattern. Message Direction PerformanceMeasurementJobDeleteRequest SMO → O-Cloud PerformanceMeasurementJobDeleteResponse O-Cloud → SMO PerformanceMeasurementJobStateChangeNotification O-Cloud → SMO Prior to the deletion, the consumer should have suspended the Performance Measurement Job(s) which it wants to delete. As a result of the Performance Measurement Job Delete service operation, the producer (O-Cloud) shall indicate to the consumer whether the Performance Measurement Job Delete service operation was processed successfully. As a result, this operation will return the status of the deleted Performance Measurement Job(s). If the operation is not successful, the O-Cloud shall return to the consumer the appropriate error information. When a Performance Measurement Job is successfully deleted and changes its status to “DEPRECATED”, a notification of that change is sent to all of consumer(s) that have been subscribing to the data collected by the deleted Performance Measurement Job. The deletion of a Performance Measurement Job(s) shall also result in the deletion of any associated embedded PM subscription. The full requirements definitions can be found in O-RAN WG6.ORCH-USE-CASES [23], clause 4.3. The following identifiers uniquely specify the requirements applicable to the producer (O-Cloud) for this operation: [REQ-ORC-O2- 59], [REQ-ORC-O2-60], [REQ-ORC-O2-84].

##### 2.1.7.2.6 Performance Measurement Event Notification Reporting
In the context of O-RAN Cloud managed systems, performance measurements can be transmitted by any of the following mechanisms: performance measurement event notification(s), performance measurement streaming based reporting, or performance measurement file-based reporting. The performance management subscription create service operation subscription filter defines the service connection end point where the event notifications shall be sent to. Event based notification are expected to be utilized for non-real time performance measurements and for situations that have a low frequency and low volume of reporting since a session is re-established with the sending of each performance measurement event notification. At higher data volumes a streaming session would be more efficient. See O-RAN WG6.ORCH-USE-CASES, clause 3.8.3 [23] for more details. This service model describes performance measurement event notification reporting to send performance data. An entity that subscribes to these performance event notifications will get a notification for each reporting message on the indicated notification callback endpoint. Notification reports are based on a performance management subscription. The performance subscription filters are described in the Performance Management Subscription Create Service Model. See Clause 2.1.3.2.2.4 for more information. Other service models in the present specification will describe the streaming based reporting and file-based reporting. The O2ims_InfrastructurePerformance services shall provide a consumer who has established a valid subscription to be notified when an event which matches the subscription filter selection criteria to be sent to the consumer (SMO).
> NOTE: It is up to the protocol and data model specification to determine the one or various protocol operations
enabling the authorized consumer to subscribe to the notification service, and to allow the notification service to invoke the specified callback procedure. The Performance Measurement Event Notification is used for reporting. Message Direction PerformanceMeasurementEventNotification O-Cloud → SMO There are three basic exception cases for this service operation:
- CONNECTION LOST – If connectivity between the subscriber and the publisher (IMS) is lost, a connection
would not be able to be opened. There are implementation considerations such as: how long data is held for, recovery of the connection, backing up data, preventing data storms upon recovery, and management after recovery.
- DATA UNAVAILABLE – This exception occurs when the performance measurement data is not available in
the O-Cloud at the IMS when it should be reported. This results in a missed timing window when data was expected, but it was not available. In the O2 interface, it would be expected that the notification would indicate data was unavailable. There are implementation considerations such as: O-Cloud failures, IMS failures, data recovery, and data synchronization.
- PM JOB FAILURES & ISSUES – If the PM Job is unable to perform its function. If there are failures or
issues with the PM Job(s) which might result in data being unavailable it is expected that there would alarms that would be raised by the IMS. This results in performance data being unavailable when it is needed to be reported. The full requirements definitions can be found in O-RAN WG6.ORCH-USE-CASES [23], clause 4.3. The following identifiers uniquely specify the requirements applicable to the producer (O-Cloud) for this operation: [REQ-ORC-O2- 39].

##### 2.1.7.2.7 Performance Measurement Job Update
Performance Measurement Jobs collect performance measurements and metrics on O-Cloud Resources. The O2ims_InfrastructurePerformance service enables an authorized consumer to update a Performance Measurement Job in the O-Cloud over the O2 interface. The Preinstalled Performance Measurement Jobs cannot be updated. Performance Measurement Job Update can occur for one of two reasons as described below:
- RESOURCE CHANGES – O-Cloud Resource changes can cause a Performance Measurement Job to update.
When O-Cloud Resources are updated, added, or deleted that a Performance Measurement Job depends on, the Performance Measurement Job update use case may be invoked. O-Cloud Resources changes can impact on the Performance Measurement Job measurement selection criteria, which triggers evaluation of the measured resources and collected measurements, and/or the resource scope criteria, which triggers evaluation of the qualified resource types and collected measurements. It is possible that the result of the O-Cloud Resource change may not alter the Performance Measurement Job.
- UPDATE BY REQUEST – A consumer may also request for an update to a Performance Measurement Job
through a request operation. A consumer may request data collection updates (i.e. measurement selection criteria, resource scope criteria) and/or other updates (e.g. collection interval, extensions) for a Performance Measurement Job. This may occur autonomously from a consumer, for example through a policy trigger. Only a consumer with the proper permissions that owns the Performance Measurement Job can update the Performance Measurement Job. To update a Performance Measurement Job the following list explains the usage of the parameters that can be provided in the service operation:
- Consumer Performance Job ID – This is an identifier optionally provided by the consumer for its purpose of
managing Performance Measurement Job(s).
- Resource Scope Criteria – Key value pairs of resource attributes which are used to select the resources from
which measurements are to be collected.
- Measurement Selection Criteria – Key value pairs that identify the distinct set of measurements within the
scope of a Performance Measurement Job.
- Collection Interval – The interval at which performance measurements will be collected and stored.
- Extensions - These are key/value pairs which extend the information about the Performance Measurement
Job. All consumer(s) who are subscribed to a Performance Measurement Job are notified via the PerformanceMeasurementJobChangeNotification when the Performance Measurement Job is updated. For further information on Performance Measurement Jobs, see O-RAN WG6 O2 GA&P [24], Clause 3.9.5. For further information on the Performance Measurement Job Update Use Case, see O-RAN.WG6. ORCH-USE-CASES [23], clause 3.8.8. pattern. Message Direction PerformanceMeasurementJobUpdateRequest SMO → O-Cloud PerformanceMeasurementJobUpdateResponse O-Cloud → SMO PerformanceMeasurementJobChangeNotification O-Cloud → SMO The full requirements definitions can be found in O-RAN WG6.ORCH-USE-CASES [23], clause 4.3. The following identifiers uniquely specify the requirements applicable to the producer (O-Cloud) for this operation: [REQ-ORC-O2- 67], [REQ-ORC-O2-68].

##### 2.1.7.2.8 Performance Management Subscription Query
Performance Management Subscription encompasses a subscription mechanism dedicated to getting reports for Performance Measurements. The query of a Performance Management Subscription is the ability of an authorized entity to get the details of a Performance Management Subscription including its performance subscription filter. The other Performance Management Subscription related service operations include the ability to create, update, and delete a subscription. The Performance Management Subscription Query operation can be performed on a set of subscriptions or a single subscription. The Performance Management Subscription filter (applied to a list) in the service model defines the following for collecting and reporting Performance Measurements over O2ims. This operation can also be applied to a single subscription if a Subscription Identifier is provided.
- Performance Measurement Data – The subscription filter qualifies what data from the Performance
Measurement jobs shall be sent.
- Timing Interval – The subscription filter indicates the reporting timing interval.
- Reporting Mechanisms – The subscription filter specifies the reporting mechanisms (file-based reporting,
stream-based reporting, event notification reporting).
- Report Formats – The subscription filter dictates the report formats.
- Consumer Performance Subscription Identifiers – The query filter can include the Consumer Performance
Subscription Identifier(s). The SMO can act as the consumer entity performing the query; however, it can also be another authorized user, technician, or machine (e.g. software, script, etc.). A typical use case for using the subscription query is to cross-check the Performance Management Subscription of the consumer. Though, it can also be utilized for other management purposes as well. It is expected that the Performance Management Subscription Create operation will have been performed prior to a query operation. However, if a Performance Management Subscription Query has a mixture of valid and non-existing subscriptions, the operation will only return information about the content that does exist (this is not an exception case). The Performance Measurement Event Notification is used for reporting. Message Direction PerformanceManagementSubscriptionQueryRequest SMO → O-Cloud PerformanceManagementSubscriptionQueryResponse O-Cloud → SMO Aside from unexpected condition exception, the only other exception case for this service operation is:
- QUERY OF NON-EXISTING PERFORMANCE SUBSCRIPTION – If the query operation results in no
Performance Management Subscription that matches the query filter, then a “Performance Management Subscription not found” is issued back to the requestor. Details about the Performance Management Subscription Query filter (applies to a subscription list) are as follows. This operation can also be applied to a single subscription if a Subscription Identifier is provided.
- Performance Measurement Data - The subscription query filter qualifies the data of interest that is collected
by Performance Management Subscription(s). A Subscription Query service operation returns Subscriptions that are providing that data of interest. The filter can specify a set of collected Measurements, see O-RAN WG6.O-Cloud-IM [36], clause 4.2.1.4.18 for more details.
- Timing Interval – This relates to the reporting timing interval for how often data is reported. In the
Subscription Query service operation, the filter indicates the reporting timing of interest. This will cause the service operation to return subscription(s) that have the timing cadence specified in the filter.
- Reporting Mechanisms – This will cause the Subscription Query service operation to return subscription(s)
that match the reporting mechanisms specified in the filter. The reporting mechanisms indicate the type of reporting that is of interest whether file-based reporting, stream-based reporting, or event notification reporting.
- Report Formats – The filter can indicate the report formats of interest. The format is either File-based,
Streaming or Notification based reporting.
- Consumer Performance Subscription Identifiers – The query filter can include the Consumer Performance
Subscription Identifier(s). The service operation will return those subscription(s) that match the Consumer Performance Subscription Identifier(s) if available. This value can be the same across multiple instances of IMS subscription instances. The full requirements related to the present service operation are specified in O-RAN WG6.ORCH-USE-CASES [23], clause 4.3. The following identifiers uniquely specify the requirements applicable to the producer (O-Cloud) for this operation: [REQ-ORC-O2-86].

### 2.1.8 O2ims_InfrastructureLogging Services

#### 2.1.8.1 Service description
Logging Services have service operations that are related to the operation and management of Logging functions within the O-Cloud. Logs can be kept at different entities within an O-Cloud. They can be kept within O-Cloud resources, Clusters, and IMS. Each of those entities can generate different kinds of logs including Alarm, Fault, Debug, Trace, Security, and Informational logs.

#### 2.1.8.2 Service operations

##### 2.1.8.2.1 Logging Configuration Service Operation
The Logging Configuration is related to how the IMS administrates, provisions, and configures logging management for logs that are generated in the O-Cloud. There are many kinds of logs that may exist in the O-Cloud such as Alarm Logs, Fault Logs, Debug Logs, and other logs. See O-RAN WG6.O2-GA&P [24], clause 3.8.19 for more details. This service operation will configure the logging behaviour of those logs. Further logging management configuration for specific types of logs are implementation specific. Examples of elements that can be configured through the Logging Configuration Service Operation are the retention period, the activation of logging, logging behaviour (e.g., rotation of older logs (FIFO)), and log levels. Not all logs will have each of these kinds of configurable attributes. See O-RAN WG6.ORCH-USE-CASES [23], clause 3.7.10 Logging Management Use Case for more information. The Logging Configuration Service Operation is related to the Log Capability Query (IMS) Service Operation (see
> NOTE 1) because Logging Configuration sets the behaviour how IMS handles the management of logging.
> NOTE 1: The Log Capability Query Service Operation is not defined in the present document.
> NOTE 2: It is up to the protocol and data model specification to determine the one or various protocol operations
enabling the authorized consumer to retrieve the O-Cloud information. Message Direction InfrastructureLogging SMO → O-Cloud Configuration Request InfrastructureLogging O-Cloud → SMO Configuration Response The input parameters sent when invoking the operation shall support the means to specify configuration of different aspects of the management of Logs of interest for the IMS and for O-Cloud Resources:
- Log Type – Specify types of Log(s) supported for the IMS and O-Cloud Resources. These might include, but
are not limited to Alarm Logs, Fault Logs, Debug Logs. Other logs could be described in the input parameter as well.
- Retention Period – Specify the Retention Period for the different types of Log(s). This attribute indicates the
period of time for which a particular type of Log would be retained for.
- Logging State – This is an attribute to indicate the activate state for a particular type of Log. Each Log Type
might have an active or inactive state to indicate whether that Log Type is used or not.
- Expiry method – Configure logging expiry method for a type of Log which describes what happens if the age
of a Log exceeds the Retention Period. The expiry methods could include behaviours such as LIFO, FIFO, and FILO.
- Logging Level – Configure the Logging Level(s) for the Logs of interest. See O-RAN WG6.O2-GA&P [24],
clause 3.8.20 for more details. The full requirements definitions can be found in O-RAN WG6.ORCH-USE-CASES [23], clause 4.3. The following identifiers uniquely specify the requirements applicable to the producer (O-Cloud) for this operation: [REQ-ORC-O2- 55].

##### 2.1.8.2.2 Logging Query Service Operation
The Log Query Service Operation allows a user, application, or entity (e.g., SMO) to query logs based on query filter. Logs could be queried by the SMO to the IMS via O2. This Service Operation concerns the retrieval and reading of logs within the O-Cloud that are present and managed by the IMS. A user, application, or entity can query for logs that are available in the Cloud: both exposed O-Cloud and Cloud Infrastructure logs. Any log kept in the Cloud infrastructure might be queried through an implementation specific user interface client or file transfer client such as CLI, SSH2, SFTP. The associated Log Query Use Case describes the concept and flow of this operation. See O-RAN WG6.ORCH- USE-CASES [23], clause 3.7.8 Log Query Use Case for more information. There are three basic kinds of logs that might be kept within the Cloud (both exposed O-Cloud and Cloud infrastructure): Alarm Logs, Fault Log, and Debug Logs. Additionally, there may be many other kinds of Logs that might available as well, such as Trace Logs, Security Logs, Informational Logs, and Maintenance Logs among others. See O-RAN WG6.O2-GA&P [24], clause 3.8.19 for more details. The Service Operation is filter driven which allows a requestor to retrieve Log data of interest. Log events are time and date stamped and Log events have a severity and source. Thus, these serve as a basis for Log querying and the filter in the Service Operation. For example, using a filter, an entity invoking the service operation could request for all the alarm logs in the O-Cloud within a certain date range or a log level. Logs can be used for a variety of purposes. The Log Query Service Operation facilities system probing, troubleshooting assistance, network optimization, and network investigation (forensics). Logs can be used for system probing to deduce an operational view of the system. For example, an entity could query for logged faults and alarms that have not been cleared. Logs of interest produced in the O-Cloud can be retrieved by the consumer as in a pull paradigm. If a consumer wants to retrieve logs, the callback is given in the Log Query operation. When the Logs are ready, the callback is used as a notification endpoint for the O-Cloud to inform the consumer that the Logs are ready to be pulled. In a large distribute cloud native system, it can take a long time to write or move Logs, hence the callback is used as a notification mechanism to a consumer. Logs of interest can also be delivered by the producer as in a push paradigm. In this case, the consumer will provide a Remote File Location (as an attribute in the operation) that the producer (O-Cloud) can upload the logs of interest to. Here, the callback is the endpoint where the Log File Ready notification is sent. This informs the consumer that the log files have been uploaded. In the push paradigm, what happens to the files after the producer sends the log files to the remote file location is implementation specific. The Logging Capability Query use case permits an entity to query for the types of Logs that are supported by the O- Cloud.
> NOTE: It is up to the protocol and data model specification to determine the one or various protocol operations
enabling the authorized consumer to retrieve the O-Cloud information. The Log Query Service Operation follows a request, response, and notification service pattern. Table 2.1.8.2.2-1 lists the information flow exchanged between the SMO and the O-Cloud. Message Direction InfrastructureLoggingQueryRequest SMO → O-Cloud InfrastructureLoggingQueryResponse O-Cloud → SMO FileReadyNotification O-Cloud → SMO The Log Query Service Operation request has input parameters that are sent when invoking the operation. These shall support the means to specify different aspects of the Querying Logs of interest for to the requestor:
- Log Type – This allows a consumer to specify the types of Log(s) to retrieve. These might include, but are not
limited to Alarm Logs, Fault Logs, Debug Logs. Other logs could be described in this input parameter as well. See O-RAN WG6.O2-GA&P [24], clause 3.8.19 for Log type concepts.
- Date Ranges – This parameter specifies a range of dates for entries in the Log type(s) of interest.
- Types of Events – The Event Type(s) can be specified as an input. Log(s) containing entries with certain types
of events of interest to the requestor can be specified as an input.
- Resources – The Resources and Resource Types can be specified as an input. Log(s) containing entries from
certain types of Resources or Resource Types of interest to the requestor can be specified.
- Log Level (Severity) – The Logging Level(s) can be specified as an input parameter. This would result in a
Query for Logs with entries matching certain Logging Level(s) in the requested Log Type(s) of interest. See O-RAN WG6.O2-GA&P [24], clause 3.8.20 for the Log Level concept.
- Callback – This provides an endpoint to send “log ready” notifications to. It is given by a requesting entity so
that the O-Cloud can send Log Query related notifications to.
- Remote File Location (Optional) – The consumer can provide a URI location where the logs of interest can
be uploaded to in a push paradigm. If a Remote File Location is provided, the files of interest to the consumer will be uploaded to that location and a file list would be returned in the response with a file available notification using the Callback provided. For example, the Log Query filters in the request may include input parameters specifying the date (ranges), types of logs, types of events, log level (severity), resource(s), or resource type(s) of interest to the consumer. The Log Query service operation can experience three exceptions as follows:
- Non-Existing Logs – This exception occurs when the Log Query service operation results in a query for non-
existent log(s). In this case, an object not found is returned for the operation.
- No Content – The Log Query service operation may have a Log Query filter that returns an empty set. This
would return a failure from the operation.
- Unable to Parse – This exception happens when the records are unavailable for parsing or retrieval by the
producer. This might occur because the Log File is corrupt, has been moved, or deleted. The full requirements definitions can be found in O-RAN WG6.ORCH-USE-CASES [23], clause 4.3. The following identifiers uniquely specify the requirements applicable to the producer (O-Cloud) for this operation: [REQ-ORC-O2- 36].

# 3 API definitions

## 3.1 General aspects

### 3.1.1 Introduction
The present document defines the protocol and data model for the following O2ims service interfaces in the form of RESTful Application Programming Interface (API) specifications:
- O2ims_InfrastructureInventory Service API (as produced by the O-Cloud towards the SMO)
- O2ims_InfrastructureMonitoring Service API (as produced by the O-Cloud towards the SMO)
- O2ims_InfrastructureProvisioning Service API (as produced by the O-Cloud towards the SMO)
- O2ims_InfrastructureSoftwareManagement Service API (as produced by the O-Cloud towards the SMO)
- O2ims_InfrastructureLifecycleManagement Service API (as produced by the O-Cloud towards the SMO)
- O2ims_InfrastructurePerformance Service API (as produced by the O-Cloud towards the SMO)
- O2ims_InfrastructureLogging Service API (as produced by the O-Cloud towards the SMO)
Service API API version O2ims_InfrastructureInventory Service API 2.0.0 O2ims_InfrastructureMonitoring Service API 2.0.0 O2ims_InfrastructureProvisioning Service API 1.1.0 O2ims_InfrastructureSoftwareManagement Service API TBD O2ims_InfrastructureLifecycleManagement Service API 1.0.0 O2ims_InfrastructurePerformance Service API 2.0.0 O2ims_InfrastructureLogging Service API TBD The design of the protocol and data model for the above interfaces is based on the information model and requirements defined in [36]. In clause 3, general aspects are specified that apply to multiple APIs for O2ims services. In addition, the provisions in clauses 3.1.2, 3.1.3, 3.1.4, 3.1.5, 3.1.6, 3.1.7, and 3.1.8 define common aspects of RESTful APIs, and shall apply for all APIs defined in the present document. In the subsequent clauses, the protocol and data model for the individual interfaces are specified. Per interface, the resource structure with associated HTTP methods is defined and applicable flows are provided. Further, the resources and the data model are specified in detail. Even though the different interfaces defined in the present document are related, implementations shall not assume a particular order of messages that arrive via different interfaces.

### 3.1.2 URI structure and supported content formats
This clause specifies the URI prefix and the supported formats applicable to the O2ims RESTful APIs. All resource URIs of the APIs shall have the following prefix, except the "API versions" resource which shall follow the rules specified in clause 9.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]: {apiRoot}/<apiName>/<apiMajorVersion>/ The request URIs used in HTTP requests from the API service consumer towards the API service producer shall have the Resource URI structure defined in clause 4.4.1 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [11], i.e.: {apiRoot}/<apiName>/<apiMajorVersion>/<apiSpecificResourceUriPart> with the following components:
- The {apiRoot} shall be set as described in clause 4.4.1 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [11].
- The <apiName> indicates the API name of the service interface in an abbreviated form. The {apiName} of
each interface is defined in the clause specifying the corresponding O2ims RESTful API.
- The <apiMajorVersion> indicates the current major version of the API and is defined in the clause specifying
the corresponding O2ims RESTful API.
- The <apiSpecificResourceUriPart> indicates a resource URI of the API, and shall be set as described in in the
corresponding O2ims RESTful API for each one of the defined resources. Either HTTP/2, as defined in IETF RFC 7540 [19], or HTTP/1.1, as defined in IETF RFC 7230 [30] shall be used. The Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) as specified in IETF RFC 793 [31] shall be used as transport protocol for HTTP/2 and HTTP/1.1. For HTTP requests and responses that have a body, the content format JSON (see IETF RFC 8259 [20]) shall be supported. The JSON format shall be signalled by the content type "application/json". All APIs shall support and use HTTP over TLS (also known as HTTPS) (see IETF RFC 2818 [32]). At least support TLS version 1.2 but recommended to support TLS version 1.3 as defined by IETF RFC 5246 [33] shall be supported.
> NOTE 1: The HTTP protocol elements mentioned in the O2ims RESTful APIs originate from the HTTP
specification; HTTPS runs the HTTP protocol on top of a TLS layer. For simplicity, the O2ims RESTful APIs specifications therefore use the statement above to mention "HTTP request", "HTTP header", etc., without explicitly calling out HTTPS.
> NOTE 2: There are a number of best practices and guidelines how to configure and implement TLS 1.2 in a secure
manner, as security threats evolve. A detailed specification of those is beyond the scope of the present document; the reader is referred to external documentation such as annex E of ETSI TS 133 310 [35]. All resource URIs of the API shall comply with the URI syntax as defined in IETF RFC 3986 [34]. An implementation that dynamically generates resource URI parts (individual path segments, sequences of path segments that are separated by "/", query parameter values) shall ensure that these parts only use the character set that is allowed by IETF RFC 3986 [34] for these parts.
> NOTE 3: This means that characters not part of this allowed set are escaped using percent-encoding as defined by
IETF RFC 3986 [34]. Unless otherwise specified explicitly, all request URI parameters that are part of the path of the resource URI shall be individual path segments, i.e., shall not contain the "/" character.
> NOTE 4: A request URI parameter is denoted by a string in curly brackets, e.g. {fooId}.

### 3.1.3 Usage of HTTP header fields

#### 3.1.3.1 General
HTTP headers are components of the header section of the HTTP request and response messages. They contain the information about the server/client and metadata of the transaction. The use of HTTP header fields shall comply with the provisions defined for those header fields in the specifications referenced from tables 3.1.3.2-1 and 3.1.3.3-1. The following clauses describe more details related to selected HTTP header fields.

#### 3.1.3.2 Request header fields
This clause describes the usage of selected HTTP header fields of the request messages in the O2ims RESTful APIs. The HTTP header fields used in the request messages that shall be supported are specified in table 3.1.3.2-1. Header field name Reference Example Descriptions Accept IETF RFC 7231 [ref- application/json Content-Types that are acceptable rfc7231] for the response. This header field shall be present if the response is expected to have a non-empty message body. Content-Type IETF RFC 7231 [ref- application/json The MIME type of the body of the rfc7231] request. This header field shall be present if the request has a non-empty message body. Authorization IETF RFC 7235 [ref- Bearer mF_9.B5f-4.1JqM The authorization token for the rfc7235] request. Range IETF RFC 7233 [ref- 1 000-2 000 Requested range of bytes from a rfc7233] file. Version IETF RFC 4229 [ref- 1.2.0 Version of the API requested to use rfc4229] or when responding to this request. 1.2.0- impl:example.com:myProduct:4

#### 3.1.3.3 Response header fields
This clause describes the usage of selected HTTP header fields of the response messages in the O2ims RESTful APIs. The HTTP header fields used in the response messages are specified in table 3.1.3.3-1. Header field name Reference Example Descriptions Content-Type IETF RFC 7231 [ref- application/json The MIME type of the body of the rfc7231] response. This header field shall be present if the response has a non-empty message body. Location IETF RFC 7231 [ref- http://www.example.com/apiname/v Used in redirection, or when a new rfc7231] 1/objects/123 resource has been created. This header field shall be present if the response status code is 201 or 3xx. In the O2ims RESTful APIs this header field is also used if the response status code is 202 and a new resource was created. WWW-Authenticate IETF RFC 7235 [ref- Bearer realm="example" Challenge if the corresponding rfc7235] HTTP request has not provided authorization, or error details if the corresponding HTTP request has provided an invalid authorization token. Accept-Ranges IETF RFC 7233 [ref- bytes Used by the server to signal rfc7233] whether or not it supports ranges for certain resources. Content-Range IETF RFC 7233 [ref- bytes 21 010 - 47 021/47 022 Signals the byte range that is rfc7233] contained in the response, and the total length of the file. Header field name Reference Example Descriptions Retry-After IETF RFC 7231 [ref- Fri, 31 Dec 1999 23:59:59 GMT Used to indicate how long the user rfc7231] or agent ought to wait before making a 120 follow-up request. It can be used with 503 responses. The value of this field can be an HTTP-date or a number of seconds to delay after the response is received. Link IETF RFC 8288 [ref- <http://example.com/resources?nex Reference to other resources. Used rfc8288] tpage_opaque_marker=abc123>; for paging in the present document, rel="next" see clause 3.1.4. Version IETF RFC 4229 [ref- 1.2.0 Version of the API requested to use rfc4229] or when responding to this request. 1.2.0- impl:example.com:myProduct:4

### 3.1.4 Result set control

#### 3.1.4.1 Introduction
This clause specifies procedures that allow to control the size of the result set of GET requests w.r.t. the number of entries in a response list (using attribute-based filtering) or w.r.t. the number of attributes returned in a response (using attribute selection).

#### 3.1.4.2 Attribute-based filtering and selector
The use of attribute-based filtering shall be supported by O2ims RESTful APIs as specified in clause 5.2.2 and 5.3.2 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22].
> NOTE: ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] refers to "RESTful NFV-MANO API" specification; and wherever such
reference is provided "O2ims RESTful API" is to be considered instead for the purpose of the present document.

#### 3.1.4.3 Handling of large query results
The handling of large query results shall be supported by O2ims RESTful APIs as specified in clause 5.4.2 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22].

### 3.1.5 Error reporting
In RESTful interfaces, application errors are mapped to HTTP errors. Since HTTP error information is generally not enough to discover the root cause of the error, additional application specific error information is typically delivered. The error reporting shall be supported by O2ims RESTful APIs as specified in clause 6 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22].
> NOTE: ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] refers to "RESTful NFV-MANO API" specification; and wherever such
reference is provided "O2ims RESTful API" is to be considered instead for the purpose of the present document.

### 3.1.6 Common data types

#### 3.1.6.1 Structured data types

##### 3.1.6.1.1 Introduction
This clause defines data structures that are referenced from data structures in multiple O2ims RESTful APIs.

##### 3.1.6.1.2 Type: Object
An object contains structured data and shall comply with the provisions of clause 4 of IETF RFC 8259 [20].

##### 3.1.6.1.3 Type: Link
This type represents a link to a resource using an absolute URI. It shall comply with the provisions defined in table 7.1.3-1. Attribute name Data type Cardinality Description href Uri 1 URI of another resource referenced from a resource. Shall be an absolute URI (i.e. a URI that contains {apiRoot}).

##### 3.1.6.1.4 Type: NotificationLink
This type represents a link to a resource in a notification, using an absolute or relative URI. It shall comply with the provisions defined in table 3.1.6.1.4-1. Attribute name Data type Cardinality Description href Uri 1 URI of a resource referenced from a notification. Should be an absolute URI (i.e. a URI that contains {apiRoot}), however, may be a relative URI (i.e. a URI where the {apiRoot} part is omitted) if the {apiRoot} information is not available.

##### 3.1.6.1.5 Type: KeyValuePairs
This type represents a list of key-value pairs. The order of the pairs in the list is not significant. In JSON, a set of key- value pairs is represented as an object. It shall comply with the provisions defined in clause 4 of IETF RFC 8259 [20]. In the following example, a list of key-value pairs with four keys ("aString", "aNumber", "anArray" and "anObject") is provided to illustrate that the values associated with different keys can be of different type. EXAMPLE: { "aString" : "O2ims service", "aNumber" : 0.03, "anArray" : [1,2,3], "anObject" : {"organization" : "O-RAN", workingGroup" : "WG6"} }

##### 3.1.6.1.6 Type: ApiVersionInformation
This type represents API version information. It shall comply with the provisions defined in table 3.1.6.1.6-1. Attribute name Data type Cardinality Description uriPrefix String 1 Specifies the URI prefix for the API, in the following form {apiRoot}/{apiName}/{apiMajorVersion}/. apiVersions Structure (inlined) 1..N Version(s) supported for the API signaled by the uriPrefix attribute. >version String 1 Identifies a supported version. The value of the version attribute shall be a version identifier as specified in clause 3.1.6.2. >isDeprecated Boolean 0..1 If such information is available, this attribute indicates whether use of the version signaled by the version attribute is deprecated (true) or not (false). See note. >retirementDate DateTime 0..1 The date and time after which the API version will no longer be supported. This attribute may be included if the value of the isDeprecated attribute is set to true and shall be absent otherwise.
> NOTE: A deprecated version is still supported by the API producer but is recommended not to be used any longer.
When a version is no longer supported, it does not appear in the response body.

#### 3.1.6.2 Simple data types and enumerations

##### 3.1.6.2.1 Introduction
This clause defines simple data types and enumerations that can be referenced from data structures defined in multiple interfaces.

##### 3.1.6.2.2 Simple data types
Type name Description Identifier An identifier with the intention of being globally unique. Representation: string of variable length. See note 1. DateTime A date-time stamp. Representation: String formatted as defined by the date-time production in IETF RFC 3339 [43]. Uri A string formatted according to IETF RFC 3986 [34]. Boolean A data type having two values (true and false). IpAddress An IPV4 or IPV6 address. Representation: In case of an IPV4 address, string that consists of four decimal integers separated by dots, each integer ranging from 0 to 255. In case of an IPV6 address, string that consists of groups of zero to four hexadecimal digits, separated by colons. Version A version. Representation: string of variable length. String A string as defined in IETF RFC 8259 [20]. Number A number as defined in IETF RFC 8259 [20]. Integer An integer, i.e. a number that cannot have a fractional component. See note 2. UnsignedInt An unsigned integer, i.e. an integer that can't assume negative values. See note 2. Point A geometry object as defined in IETF RFC 7946 [44].
> NOTE 1: Individual API specifications are assumed to define types for additional identifiers with dedicated scope (e.g.
identifiers scoped by some O-Cloud).
> NOTE 2: In the JSON instance data model, only the concept of a "number" is used to represent numerical data.
Numbers in JSON can be integral, i.e. have no fractional part, or can include a fractional part. The additional numeric types defined in the present document represent constraints on the general "number" type present in JSON instances which can be enforced e.g. during parsing when processing the JSON instance or expressed as constraints in modelling languages such as JSON Schema [ref-json-scheme] or OpenAPI [ref- openapi].

### 3.1.7 Security

#### 3.1.7.1 Introduction
The current version of the present document mandates compliance with the authorization mechanisms outlined in the with the following best practices and guidelines:
- O-RAN.WG11.TS.SecProtSpec [46] clause 4.10 for HTTP over TLS (HTTPS),
- O-RAN.WG11.TS.SecProtSpec [46] clause 4.7 for OAuth 2.0 framework and token usage.

### 3.1.8 Version management

#### 3.1.8.1 Version identifiers and parameters
API version identifiers and rules for incrementing version identifier fields shall be supported by O2ims RESTful APIs as specified in clause 9.1 and 9.2 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22].
> NOTE: ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] refers to "RESTful NFV-MANO API" specification and OpenAPI
specification that ETSI publishes; and wherever such reference is provided "O2ims RESTful API" and OpenAPI that O-RAN publishes is to be considered instead for the purpose of the present document. Clause 9.2.2 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] provides examples of backward and non-backward compatible changes.

#### 3.1.8.2 Version information retrieval and signaling
The API producer shall support the dedicated URIs to enable API consumers to retrieve information about API versions supported by an API producer as specified in clause 9.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22], and the API consumer shall include the "Version" HTTP header in each HTTP request as specified in clause 9.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22].
> NOTE: ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] refers to "RESTful NFV-MANO API" specification; and wherever such
reference is provided "O2ims RESTful API" is to be considered instead for the purpose of the present document.

## 3.2 O2ims_InfrastructureInventory Service API

### 3.2.1 Description
This API allows the SMO to invoke O2ims_InfrastructureInventory Services towards the O-Cloud. The operations defined for O2ims_InfrastructureInventory Services through this API are:
- Query information about one or multiple Resource Type
- Query information about one or multiple Resource Pool
- Query information about one or multiple Resource
- Query information about one or multiple Deployment Manager
- Query information about one or multiple Subscriptions
- Query information about one or multiple Alarm Dictionary
- Query information about one or multiple Performance Dictionary
- Query information about one or multiple Location
- Query information about one or multiple O-Cloud Site
- Notify consumer identified by an established subscription which is not filtered by the filter criteria of the
occurrence of a change to the infrastructure inventory objects

### 3.2.2 API version
For the O2ims_InfrastructureInventory Service API version as specified in the present document, the MAJOR version field shall be 2, the MINOR version field shall be 0, and the PATCH version field shall be 0. added/removed across versions. Version Description

### 1.0.0 Initial API Supporting:
O-Cloud Description Resource Type List Resource Type Description Resource Pool List Resource Pool Description Resource List Resource Description Deployment Manager List Deployment Manager Description Inventory Subscription List Inventory Subscription Description

### 1.1.0 Modified method:
Inventory Subscription Description New resources: Performance Dictionary Alarm Dictionary Alarm Dictionary List Performance Dictionary List

### 1.2.0 Modified Data Type:
ResourceTypeInfo

### 2.0.0 New resources:
Location List Location Description O-Cloud Site List O-Cloud Site Description Modified Data Types: ResourcePoolInfo CloudInfo InventorySubsciptionInfo

### 3.2.3 REST resources structure and methods
All resource URIs of the API shall use the base URI specification defined in clause 3.1.2. The string "O2ims_infrastructureInventory" shall be used to represent {apiName}. All resource URIs in the clauses below are defined relative to the formed base URI (i.e., {apiRoot}/O2ims_infrastructureInventory/{apiVersion}). When ambiguity is possible, the term REST resource is used to make the distinction between the term resource as understood within the context of REST API from the term resource as understood within the context of O-RAN. The O-Cloud shall support responding to requests for all HTTP methods on the resources in Table 3.2.3-1 that are marked as "M" (mandatory) in the "Cat" column. The O-Cloud shall also support the "API versions" resources as specified in clause 3.1.8. HTTP Cat Resource name Resource URI Description method O-Cloud Description / GET M To get the attributes of the O- Cloud instance Resource Type List /resourceTypes GET M To get a list of resource types Resource Type /resourceTypes/{resourceTypeId} GET M To get an individual resource Description type description Performance /resourceTypes/{resourceTypeId}/ GET M To get the Performance Dictionary performanceDictionary Dictionary /performanceDictionaries/ {performaneDictionaryId} Alarm Dictionary /resourceTypes/{resourceTypeId}/ GET M To get the Alarm Dictionary alarmDictionary /alarmDictionaries/{alarmDictionaryId} Resource Pool List /resourcePools GET M To get a list of resource pools Resouce Pool /resourcePools/{resourcePoolId} GET M To get an individual resource Description pool description Resource List /resourcePools/{resourcePoolId} GET M To get a list of resources in /resources the resource pool Resource /resourcePools/{resourcePoolId} GET M To get an individual resource Description /resources/{resourceId} description Deployment /deploymentManagers GET M To get a list of deployment Manager List managers Deployment /deploymentManagers/{deploymentManagerId} GET M To get an individual Manager Description deployment manager description Inventory /subscriptions GET M To get a list of subscriptions Subscription List Inventory /subscriptions POST M To create an individual Subscription List subscription Inventory /subscriptions/{subscriptionId} GET M To get an individual Subscription subscription description Description Inventory /subscriptions/{subscriptionId} DELETE M To delete an individual Subscription subscription Description Alarm Dictionary List /alarmDictionaries GET M To get the list of individual Dictionaries that qualify Performance /performanceDictionaries GET M To get the list of individual Dictionary List Performance Dictionaries that qualify Location List /locations GET M To get a list of locations Location Description /locations/{globalLocationId} GET M To get an individual location description O-Cloud Site List /oCloudSites GET M To get a list of O-Cloud sites O-Cloud Site /oCloudSites/{oCloudSiteId} GET M To get an individual O-Cloud Description site description

### 3.2.4 REST resources

#### 3.2.4.1 Introduction
There are no preconditions or postconditions for a successful execution of each of the O2ims_InfrastructureInventory Service API triggered by an operation.

#### 3.2.4.2 REST resource: Resource Type List

##### 3.2.4.2.1 Description
This resource represents the list of resource types that the O-Cloud is designed to support. The Resource Type List contains Resource Type Descriptions.

##### 3.2.4.2.2 Resource definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/O2ims_infrastructureInventory/{apiMajorVersion}/resourceTypes This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in Table 3.2.4.2.2-1. Name Data type Definition apiRoot string See clause 3.1.2 apiMajorVersion string See clause 3.1.2

##### 3.2.4.2.3 Resource methods
3.2.4.2.3.1 POST This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.2.4.2.3.2 GET The GET operation is used to retrieve the list of resource type. This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in Table 3.2.4.2.3.2-1. Name Cardinality Description filter 0..1 Attribute-based filtering expression according to clause 5.2 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. The O-Cloud shall support receiving this parameter as part of the URI query string. The API consumer may supply this parameter. All attribute names that appear in the ResourceTypeInfo and in data types referenced from it shall be supported by the O-Cloud in the filter expression. all_fields 0..1 Include all complex attributes in the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud shall support this parameter. fields 0..1 Complex attributes to be included into the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud should support this parameter. exclude_fields 0..1 Complex attributes to be excluded from the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud should support this parameter. exclude_default 0..1 Indicates to exclude the following complex attributes from the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud shall support this parameter. The following attributes shall be excluded from the list of ResourceTypeInfo in the response body if this parameter is provided, or none of the parameters "all_fields", "fields", "exclude_fields", "exclude_default" are provided:
- TBD
nextpage_opaque 0..1 Marker to obtain the next page of a paged response. Shall be supported by _marker the O-Cloud if the O-Cloud supports alternative 2 (paging) according to clause 5.4.2.1 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for this resource. This method shall support the request data structures, the response data structures, and response codes specified in Request Data type Cardinality Description body n/a Response Data type Cardinality Description Codes ResourceTypeInfo 0..N 200 OK Shall be returned when information about zero or more ResourceTypeInfo instances has been queried successfully. The response body shall contain in an array the representations of zero or more ResourceTypeInfo instances, as defined in clause 3.2.6.2.2. If the "filter" URI parameter or one of the "all_fields", "fields" (if supported), "exclude_fields" (if supported) or "exclude_default" URI parameters was supplied in the request, the data in the response body shall have been transformed according to the rules specified in clauses 5.2.2 and 5.3.2 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22], respectively. If the O-Cloud supports alternative 2 (paging) according to clause 5.4.2.1 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for this resource, inclusion of the Link HTTP Response header in this response shall follow the provisions in body clause 5.4.2.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. ProblemDetails 1 400 Bad Shall be returned upon the following error: Invalid Request attribute-based filtering expression. The response body shall contain a ProblemDetails structure, in which the "detail" attribute should convey more information about the error. ProblemDetails 1 400 Bad Shall be returned upon the following error: Invalid Request attribute selector. The response body shall contain a ProblemDetails structure, in which the "detail" attribute should convey more information about the error. ProblemDetails 1 400 Bad Shall be returned upon the following error: Response Request too big. If the O-Cloud supports alternative 1 (error) according to clause 5.4.2.1 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for this resource, this error response shall follow the provisions in clause 5.4.2.2 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. ProblemDetails See 4xx/5xx In addition to the response codes defined above, any clause 3.1. common error response code as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] may be returned. 3.2.4.2.3.3 PUT This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.2.4.2.3.4 PATCH This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.2.4.2.3.5 DELETE This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22].

#### 3.2.4.3 REST resource: Resource Type Description

##### 3.2.4.3.1 Description
This resource represents the description of a resource type. The Resource Type Description is a record of the attributes. The record contains mandatory fields and allows for non-standard attributes to also be inventoried.

##### 3.2.4.3.2 Resource definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/O2ims_infrastructureInventory/{apiMajorVersion}/resourceTypes/{resourceTypeId} This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in Table 3.2.4.3.2-1. Name Data type Definition apiRoot String See clause 3.1.2 apiMajorVersion String See clause 3.1.2 resourceTypeId Identifier The identifier of the Resource Type Description resource. See note.
> NOTE: This identifier can be retrieved from the resourceTypeId attribute in the payload body of the response to a
GET request getting the list of "ResourceType" resources.

##### 3.2.4.3.3 Resource methods
3.2.4.3.3.1 POST This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.2.4.3.3.2 GET The GET operation is used to retrieve the resource type description of a single resource type. This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in Table 3.2.4.3.3.2-1. Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability n/a This method shall support the request data structures, the response data structures, and response codes specified in Request Data type Cardinality Description body n/a Response Data type Cardinality Description Codes ResourceTypeInfo 1 200 OK Shall be returned when information about a ResourceTypeInfo instance has been queried successfully. Response The response body shall contain a representation of body the ResourceTypeInfo instance, as defined in clause 3.2.6.2.2. ProblemDetails See 4xx/5xx In addition to the response codes defined above, any clause 3.1. common error response code as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] may be returned. 3.2.4.3.3.3 PUT This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.2.4.3.3.4 PATCH This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.2.4.3.3.5 DELETE This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22].

#### 3.2.4.4 REST resource: Resource Pool List

##### 3.2.4.4.1 Description
This resource represents the list of Resource Pools that the O-Cloud has resource deployed to. The Resource Pool List contains Resource Pool Descriptions.

##### 3.2.4.4.2 Resource definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/O2ims_infrastructureInventory/{apiMajorVersion}/resourcePools This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in Table 3.2.4.4.2-1. Name Data type Definition apiRoot String See clause 3.1.2 apiMajorVersion String See clause 3.1.2

##### 3.2.4.4.3 Resource methods
3.2.4.4.3.1 POST This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.2.4.4.3.2 GET The GET operation is used to retrieve the list of resource pools. This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in Table 3.2.4.4.3.2-1. Name Cardinality Description filter 0..1 Attribute-based filtering expression according to clause 5.2 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. The O-Cloud shall support receiving this parameter as part of the URI query string. The API consumer may supply this parameter. All attribute names that appear in the ResourcePoolInfo and in data types referenced from it shall be supported by the O-Cloud in the filter expression. all_fields 0..1 Include all complex attributes in the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud shall support this parameter. fields 0..1 Complex attributes to be included into the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud should support this parameter. exclude_fields 0..1 Complex attributes to be excluded from the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud should support this parameter. exclude_default 0..1 Indicates to exclude the following complex attributes from the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud shall support this parameter. The following attributes shall be excluded from the list of ResourcePoolInfo in the response body if this parameter is provided, or none of the parameters "all_fields", "fields", "exclude_fields", "exclude_default" are provided:
- TBD
nextpage_opaque 0..1 Marker to obtain the next page of a paged response. Shall be supported by _marker the O-Cloud if the O-Cloud supports alternative 2 (paging) according to clause 5.4.2.1 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for this resource. This method shall support the request data structures, the response data structures, and response codes specified in Request Data type Cardinality Description body n/a Response Data type Cardinality Description Codes ResourcePoolInfo 0..N 200 OK Shall be returned when information about zero or more ResourcePoolInfo instances has been queried successfully. The response body shall contain in an array the representations of zero or more ResourcePoolInfo instances, as defined in clause 3.2.6.2.3. If the "filter" URI parameter or one of the "all_fields", "fields" (if supported), "exclude_fields" (if supported) or "exclude_default" URI parameters was supplied in the request, the data in the response body shall have been transformed according to the rules specified in clauses 5.2.2 and 5.3.2 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] , respectively. If the O-Cloud supports alternative 2 (paging) according to clause 5.4.2.1 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for this resource, inclusion of the Link HTTP Response header in this response shall follow the provisions in body clause 5.4.2.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] . ProblemDetails 1 400 Bad Shall be returned upon the following error: Invalid Request attribute-based filtering expression. The response body shall contain a ProblemDetails structure, in which the "detail" attribute should convey more information about the error. ProblemDetails 1 400 Bad Shall be returned upon the following error: Invalid Request attribute selector. The response body shall contain a ProblemDetails structure, in which the "detail" attribute should convey more information about the error. ProblemDetails 1 400 Bad Shall be returned upon the following error: Response Request too big. If the O-Cloud supports alternative 1 (error) according to clause 5.4.2.1 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for this resource, this error response shall follow the provisions in clause 5.4.2.2 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] . ProblemDetails See 4xx/5xx In addition to the response codes defined above, any clause 3.1. common error response code as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] may be returned. 3.2.4.4.3.3 PUT This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] . 3.2.4.4.3.4 PATCH This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] . 3.2.4.4.3.5 DELETE This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] .

#### 3.2.4.5 REST resource: Resource Pool Description

##### 3.2.4.5.1 Description
The Resource Pool Description represents the description of a resource pool. This includes some mandatory attributes and allows for extended attributes as well.

##### 3.2.4.5.2 Resource definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/O2ims_infrastructureInventory/{apiMajorVersion}/resourcePools/{resourcePoolId} This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in Table 3.2.4.5.2-1. Name Data type Definition apiRoot String See clause 3.1.2 apiMajorVersion String See clause 3.1.2 resourcePoolId Identifier The identifier of the Resource Pool Description resource. See note.
> NOTE: This identifier can be retrieved from the resourcePoolId attribute in the payload body of the response to a
GET request getting the list of "ResourcePool" resources.

##### 3.2.4.5.3 Resource methods
3.2.4.5.3.1 POST This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] . 3.2.4.5.3.2 GET The GET operation is used to retrieve the resource pool description of a single resource pool. This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in Table 3.2.4.5.3.2-1. Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability n/a This method shall support the request data structures, the response data structures, and response codes specified in Request Data type Cardinality Description body n/a Response Data type Cardinality Description Codes ResourcePoolInfo 1 200 OK Shall be returned when information about a ResourcePoolInfo instance has been queried successfully. Response The response body shall contain a representation of body the ResourcePoolInfo instance, as defined in clause 3.2.6.3.2. ProblemDetails See 4xx/5xx In addition to the response codes defined above, any clause 3.1. common error response code as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] may be returned. 3.2.4.5.3.3 PUT This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] . 3.2.4.5.3.4 PATCH This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] . 3.2.4.5.3.5 DELETE This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] .

#### 3.2.4.6 REST resource: Resource List

##### 3.2.4.6.1 Description
This resource represents the list of resources in a specific Resource Pool. The Resource List contains Resource Descriptions.

##### 3.2.4.6.2 Resource definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/O2ims_infrastructureInventory/{apiMajorVersion}/resourcePools/{resourcePoolId}/resources This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in Table 3.2.4.6.2-1. Name Data type Definition apiRoot String See clause 3.1.2 apiMajorVersion String See clause 3.1.2 resourcePoolId Identifier The identifier of the Resource Pool Description resource. See note.
> NOTE: This identifier can be retrieved from the resourcePoolId attribute in the payload body of the response to a
GET request getting the list of "ResourcePool" resources.

##### 3.2.4.6.3 Resource methods
3.2.4.6.3.1 POST This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] . 3.2.4.6.3.2 GET The GET operation is used to retrieve the list of resource descriptions in the specific Resource Pool. This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in Table 3.2.4.6.3.2-1. Name Cardinality Description filter 0..1 Attribute-based filtering expression according to clause 5.2 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] . The O-Cloud shall support receiving this parameter as part of the URI query string. The API consumer may supply this parameter. All attribute names that appear in the ResourceInfo and in data types referenced from it shall be supported by the O-Cloud in the filter expression. all_fields 0..1 Include all complex attributes in the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud shall support this parameter. fields 0..1 Complex attributes to be included into the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud should support this parameter. exclude_fields 0..1 Complex attributes to be excluded from the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud should support this parameter. exclude_default 0..1 Indicates to exclude the following complex attributes from the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud shall support this parameter. The following attributes shall be excluded from the list of ResourceInfo in the response body if this parameter is provided, or none of the parameters "all_fields", "fields", "exclude_fields", "exclude_default" are provided:
- TBD
nextpage_opaque 0..1 Marker to obtain the next page of a paged response. Shall be supported _marker by the O-Cloud if the O-Cloud supports alternative 2 (paging) according to clause 5.4.2.1 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for this resource. This method shall support the request data structures, the response data structures, and response codes specified in Request Data type Cardinality Description body n/a Response Data type Cardinality Description Codes ResourceInfo 0..N 200 OK Shall be returned when information about zero or more ResourceInfo instances has been queried successfully. The response body shall contain in an array the representations of zero or more ResourceInfo instances, as defined in clause 3.2.6.2.4. If the "filter" URI parameter or one of the "all_fields", "fields" (if supported), "exclude_fields" (if supported) or "exclude_default" URI parameters was supplied in the request, the data in the response body shall have been transformed according to the rules specified in clauses 5.2.2 and 5.3.2 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] , respectively. If the O-Cloud supports alternative 2 (paging) according to clause 5.4.2.1 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for this resource, inclusion of the Link HTTP header in this response shall follow the provisions in Response clause 5.4.2.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] . body ProblemDetails 1 400 Bad Shall be returned upon the following error: Invalid Request attribute-based filtering expression. The response body shall contain a ProblemDetails structure, in which the "detail" attribute should convey more information about the error. ProblemDetails 1 400 Bad Shall be returned upon the following error: Invalid Request attribute selector. The response body shall contain a ProblemDetails structure, in which the "detail" attribute should convey more information about the error. ProblemDetails 1 400 Bad Shall be returned upon the following error: Response Request too big. If the O-Cloud supports alternative 1 (error) according to clause 5.4.2.1 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for this resource, this error response shall follow the provisions in clause 5.4.2.2 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] . ProblemDetails See 4xx/5xx In addition to the response codes defined above, any clause 3.1. common error response code as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] may be returned. 3.2.4.6.3.3 PUT This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] . 3.2.4.6.3.4 PATCH This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] . 3.2.4.6.3.5 DELETE This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] .

#### 3.2.4.7 REST resource: Resource Description

##### 3.2.4.7.1 Description
The Resource Description represents the description of an individual resource instance in a resource pool. This includes some mandatory attributes including a reference to the Resource Type that defines it and allows for extended attributes as well.

##### 3.2.4.7.2 Resource definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/O2ims_infrastructureInventory/{apiMajorVersion}/resourcePools/{resourcePoolId}/resources/{resour ceId} This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in Table 3.2.4.7.2-1. Name Data type Definition apiRoot string See clause 4.1.1 apiMajorVersion String See clause 3.1.2 resourcePoolId Identifier The identifier of the Resource Pool Description resource. See note1. resourceId Identifier The identifier of the Resource in the Resource Pool. See note2.
> NOTE 1: This identifier can be retrieved from the resourcePoolId attribute in the payload body of the response to a
GET request getting the list of "ResourcePool" resources.
> NOTE 2: This identifier can be retrieved from the resourceId attribute in the payload body of the response to a GET
request getting the list of "ResourcePoolDescription" resources.

##### 3.2.4.7.3 Resource methods
3.2.4.7.3.1 POST This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] . 3.2.4.7.3.2 GET The GET operation is used to retrieve the resource description of an individual resource instance in a resource pool. This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in Table 3.2.4.7.3.2-1. Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability n/a This method shall support the request data structures, the response data structures, and response codes specified in Request Data type Cardinality Description body n/a Response Data type Cardinality Description Codes ResourceInfo 1 200 OK Shall be returned when information about a ResourceInfo instance has been queried successfully. Response The response body shall contain a representation of body the ResourceInfo instance, as defined in clause 3.2.6.2.4. ProblemDetails See 4xx/5xx In addition to the response codes defined above, any clause 3.1. common error response code as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] may be returned. 3.2.4.7.3.3 PUT This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] . 3.2.4.7.3.4 PATCH This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] . 3.2.4.7.3.5 DELETE This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] .

#### 3.2.4.8 REST resource: Deployment Manager List

##### 3.2.4.8.1 Description
This resource represents the set of Deployment Managers in the O-Cloud the SMO can use for managing Deployments. The Deployment Manager List contains Deployment Manager Descriptions.

##### 3.2.4.8.2 Resource definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/O2ims_infrastructureInventory/{apiMajorVersion}/deploymentManagers This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in Table 3.2.4.8.2-1. Name Data type Definition apiRoot String See clause 3.1.2 apiMajorVersion String See clause 3.1.2

##### 3.2.4.8.3 Resource methods
3.2.4.8.3.1 POST This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] . 3.2.4.8.3.2 GET The GET operation is used to retrieve the list of deployment manager. This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in Table 3.2.4.8.3.2-1. Name Cardinality Description filter 0..1 Attribute-based filtering expression according to clause 5.2 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] . The O-Cloud shall support receiving this parameter as part of the URI query string. The API consumer may supply this parameter. All attribute names that appear in the DeploymentManagerInfo and in data types referenced from it shall be supported by the O-Cloud in the filter expression. all_fields 0..1 Include all complex attributes in the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud shall support this parameter. fields 0..1 Complex attributes to be included into the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud should support this parameter. exclude_fields 0..1 Complex attributes to be excluded from the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud should support this parameter. exclude_default 0..1 Indicates to exclude the following complex attributes from the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud shall support this parameter. The following attributes shall be excluded from the list of DeploymentManagerInfo in the response body if this parameter is provided, or none of the parameters "all_fields", "fields", "exclude_fields", "exclude_default" are provided:
- TBD
nextpage_opaque 0..1 Marker to obtain the next page of a paged response. Shall be supported _marker by the O-Cloud if the O-Cloud supports alternative 2 (paging) according to clause 5.4.2.1 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for this resource. This method shall support the request data structures, the response data structures, and response codes specified in Request Data type Cardinality Description body n/a Response Data type Cardinality Description Codes DeploymentManagerInf 0..N 200 OK Shall be returned when information about zero or more o DeploymentManagerInfo instances has been queried successfully. The response body shall contain in an array the representations of zero or more DeploymentManagerInfo instances, as defined in clause 3.2.6.2.5. If the "filter" URI parameter or one of the "all_fields", "fields" (if supported), "exclude_fields" (if supported) or "exclude_default" URI parameters was supplied in the request, the data in the response body shall have been transformed according to the rules specified in clauses 5.2.2 and 5.3.2 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] , respectively. If the O-Cloud supports alternative 2 (paging) according to clause 5.4.2.1 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for this resource, inclusion of the Link HTTP Response header in this response shall follow the provisions in body clause 5.4.2.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] . ProblemDetails 1 400 Bad Shall be returned upon the following error: Invalid Request attribute-based filtering expression. The response body shall contain a ProblemDetails structure, in which the "detail" attribute should convey more information about the error. ProblemDetails 1 400 Bad Shall be returned upon the following error: Invalid Request attribute selector. The response body shall contain a ProblemDetails structure, in which the "detail" attribute should convey more information about the error. ProblemDetails 1 400 Bad Shall be returned upon the following error: Response Request too big. If the O-Cloud supports alternative 1 (error) according to clause 5.4.2.1 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for this resource, this error response shall follow the provisions in clause 5.4.2.2 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] . ProblemDetails See 4xx/5xx In addition to the response codes defined above, any clause 3.1. common error response code as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] may be returned. 3.2.4.8.3.3 PUT This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] . 3.2.4.8.3.4 PATCH This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] . 3.2.4.8.3.5 DELETE This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] .

#### 3.2.4.9 REST resource: Deployment Manager Description

##### 3.2.4.9.1 Description
The Deployment Manager Description represents the description of a Deployment Manager instance in the O-Cloud. This includes some mandatory attributes including a reference to the capabilities that defines it and allows for extended attributes as well.

##### 3.2.4.9.2 Resource definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/O2ims_infrastructureInventory/{apiMajorVersion}/deploymentManagers/{deploymentManagerId} This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in Table 3.2.4.9.2-1. Name Data type Definition apiRoot String See clause 3.1.2 apiMajorVersion String See clause 3.1.2 deploymentManagerId Identifier The identifier of the Deployment Manager Description resource.
> NOTE: This identifier can be retrieved from the deploymentManagerId attribute in the payload body of the response
to a GET request getting the list of "DeploymentManagerInfo" resources.

##### 3.2.4.9.3 Resource methods
3.2.4.9.3.1 POST This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] . 3.2.4.9.3.2 GET The GET operation is used to retrieve the deployment manager description of a single deployment manager. This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in Table 3.2.4.9.3.2-1. Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability n/a This method shall support the request data structures, the response data structures, and response codes specified in Request Data type Cardinality Description body n/a Response Data type Cardinality Description Codes DeploymentManagerInf 1 200 OK Shall be returned when information about a o DeploymentManagerInfo instance has been queried successfully. Response The response body shall contain a representation of body the DeploymentManagerInfo instance, as defined in clause 3.2.6.2.2. ProblemDetails See 4xx/5xx In addition to the response codes defined above, any clause 3.1. common error response code as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] may be returned. 3.2.4.9.3.3 PUT This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] . 3.2.4.9.3.4 PATCH This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] . 3.2.4.9.3.5 DELETE This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] .

#### 3.2.4.10 REST resource: Cloud Description

##### 3.2.4.10.1 Description
This resource represents the attributes of the O-Cloud instance and provides the Cloud Description.

##### 3.2.4.10.2 Resource definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/O2ims_infrastructureInventory/{apiMajorVersion}/ This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in Table 3.2.4.10.2-1. Name Data type Definition apiRoot string See clause 3.1.2 apiMajorVersion string See clause 3.1.2

##### 3.2.4.10.3 Resource methods
3.2.4.10.3.1 POST This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] . 3.2.4.10.3.2 GET The GET operation is used to retrieve the O-Cloud description. This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in Table 3.2.4.10.3.2-1. Name Cardinality Description all_fields 0..1 Include all complex attributes in the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud shall support this parameter. fields 0..1 Complex attributes to be included into the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud should support this parameter. exclude_fields 0..1 Complex attributes to be excluded from the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud should support this parameter. exclude_default 0..1 Indicates to exclude the following complex attributes from the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud shall support this parameter. The following attributes shall be excluded from the list of ResourceTypeInfo in the response body if this parameter is provided, or none of the parameters "all_fields", "fields", "exclude_fields", "exclude_default" are provided:
- TBD
This method shall support the request data structures, the response data structures, and response codes specified in Request Data type Cardinality Description body n/a Response Data type Cardinality Description Codes OCloudInfo 1 200 OK Shall be returned when information for the OCloudInfo has been queried successfully. The response body shall contain a representation of the OCloudInfo instance, as defined in clause 3.2.6.2.6. ProblemDetails 1 400 Bad Shall be returned upon the following error: Invalid Request attribute-based filtering expression. Response The response body shall contain a ProblemDetails body structure, in which the "detail" attribute should convey more information about the error. ProblemDetails 1 400 Bad Shall be returned upon the following error: Invalid Request attribute selector. The response body shall contain a ProblemDetails structure, in which the "detail" attribute should convey more information about the error. ProblemDetails See 4xx/5xx In addition to the response codes defined above, any clause 3.1. common error response code as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] may be returned. 3.2.4.10.3.3 PUT This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] . 3.2.4.10.3.4 PATCH This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] . 3.2.4.10.3.5 DELETE This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] .

#### 3.2.4.11 REST resource: Inventory Subscription List

##### 3.2.4.11.1 Description
This resource represents the set of Inventory Subscriptions in the O-Cloud the SMO can use for being notified when certain changes in the inventory object occur. The Inventory Subscription List contains Inventory Subscription Descriptions.

##### 3.2.4.11.2 Resource definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/O2ims_infrastructureInventory/{apiMajorVersion}/subscriptions This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in Table 3.2.4.11.2-1. Name Data type Definition apiRoot String See clause 3.1.2 apiMajorVersion String See clause 3.1.2

##### 3.2.4.11.3 Resource methods
3.2.4.11.3.1 POST The POST operation is used to create an inventory subscription. This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in Table 3.2.4.11.3.1-1. Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability n/a This method shall support the request data structures, the response data structures, and response codes specified in Data type Cardinality Description Request InventorySubscriptionInfo 1 The InventorySubscriptionInfo instance to be created as defined in body clause 3.2.6.2.7. Note: The supplied SubscriptionId is ignored and assigned by the O-Cloud. Response Data type Cardinality Description Codes InventorySubscriptionInfo 1 201 Shall be returned when information about a Created InventorySubscriptionInfo instance has been created successfully. Response The response body shall contain a representation of body the InventorySubscriptionInfo instance, as defined in clause 3.2.6.2.7. ProblemDetails See 4xx/5xx In addition to the response codes defined above, any clause 3.1. common error response code as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] may be returned. 3.2.4.11.3.2 GET The GET operation is used to retrieve the list of inventory subscriptions. This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in Table 3.2.4.11.3.2-1. Name Cardinality Description filter 0..1 Attribute-based filtering expression according to clause 5.2 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] . The O-Cloud shall support receiving this parameter as part of the URI query string. The API consumer may supply this parameter. All attribute names that appear in the InventorySubscriptionInfo and in data types referenced from it shall be supported by the O-Cloud in the filter expression. all_fields 0..1 Include all complex attributes in the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud shall support this parameter. fields 0..1 Complex attributes to be included into the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud should support this parameter. exclude_fields 0..1 Complex attributes to be excluded from the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud should support this parameter. exclude_default 0..1 Indicates to exclude the following complex attributes from the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud shall support this parameter. The following attributes shall be excluded from the list of InventorySubscriptionInfo in the response body if this parameter is provided, or none of the parameters "all_fields", "fields", "exclude_fields", "exclude_default" are provided:
- TBD
nextpage_opaque 0..1 Marker to obtain the next page of a paged response. Shall be supported _marker by the O-Cloud if the O-Cloud supports alternative 2 (paging) according to clause 5.4.2.1 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for this resource. This method shall support the request data structures, the response data structures, and response codes specified in Request Data type Cardinality Description body n/a Response Data type Cardinality Description Codes InventorySubscriptionIn 0..N 200 OK Shall be returned when information about zero or more fo InventorySubscriptionInfo instances has been queried successfully. The response body shall contain in an array the representations of zero or more InventorySubscriptionInfo instances, as defined in clause 3.2.6.2.7. If the "filter" URI parameter or one of the "all_fields", "fields" (if supported), "exclude_fields" (if supported) or "exclude_default" URI parameters was supplied in the request, the data in the response body shall have been transformed according to the rules specified in clauses 5.2.2 and 5.3.2 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] , respectively. If the O-Cloud supports alternative 2 (paging) according to clause 5.4.2.1 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for this resource, inclusion of the Link HTTP Response header in this response shall follow the provisions in body clause 5.4.2.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] . ProblemDetails 1 400 Bad Shall be returned upon the following error: Invalid Request attribute-based filtering expression. The response body shall contain a ProblemDetails structure, in which the "detail" attribute should convey more information about the error. ProblemDetails 1 400 Bad Shall be returned upon the following error: Invalid Request attribute selector. The response body shall contain a ProblemDetails structure, in which the "detail" attribute should convey more information about the error. ProblemDetails 1 400 Bad Shall be returned upon the following error: Response Request too big. If the O-Cloud supports alternative 1 (error) according to clause 5.4.2.1 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for this resource, this error response shall follow the provisions in clause 5.4.2.2 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] . ProblemDetails See 4xx/5xx In addition to the response codes defined above, any clause 3.1. common error response code as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] may be returned. 3.2.4.11.3.3 PUT This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] . 3.2.4.11.3.4 PATCH This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] . 3.2.4.11.3.5 DELETE This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] .

#### 3.2.4.12 REST resource: Inventory Subscription Description

##### 3.2.4.12.1 Description
The Inventory Subscription Description represents the description of a subscription to inventory change events in the O- Cloud.

##### 3.2.4.12.2 Resource definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/O2ims_infrastructureInventory/{apiMajorVersion}/subscriptions/{subscriptionId} This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in Table 3.2.4.12.2-1. Name Data type Definition apiRoot String See clause 3.1.2 apiMajorVersion String See clause 3.1.2 subscriptionId Identifier The identifier of the Inventory Subscription Description resource.
> NOTE: This identifier can be retrieved from the subsciptionId attribute in the payload body of the response to a GET
request getting the list of "InventorySubscriptionInfo" resources.

##### 3.2.4.12.3 Resource methods
3.2.4.12.3.1 POST This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] . 3.2.4.12.3.2 GET The GET operation is used to retrieve the inventory subscription description of a single inventory subscription. This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in Table 3.2.4.12.3.2-1. Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability n/a This method shall support the request data structures, the response data structures, and response codes specified in Request Data type Cardinality Description body n/a Response Data type Cardinality Description Codes InventorySubscriptionIn 1 200 OK Shall be returned when information about a fo InventorySubscriptionInfo instance has been queried successfully. Response The response body shall contain a representation of body the InventorySubscriptionInfo instance, as defined in clause 3.2.6.2.7. ProblemDetails See 4xx/5xx In addition to the response codes defined above, any clause 3.1. common error response code as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] may be returned. 3.2.4.12.3.3 PUT This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] . 3.2.4.12.3.4 PATCH This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] . 3.2.4.12.3.5 DELETE The DELETE operation is used to delete the inventory subscription description of a single inventory subscription. This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in Table 3.2.4.12.3.5-1. Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability n/a This method shall support the request data structures, the response data structures, and response codes specified in Request Data type Cardinality Description body n/a Response Data type Cardinality Description Codes Response n/a 1 204 No content. body ProblemDetails See 4xx/5xx In addition to the response codes defined above, any clause 3.1. common error response code as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] may be returned.

#### 3.2.4.13 REST resource: Alarm Dictionary

##### 3.2.4.13.1 Description
The Alarm Dictionary REST resource dedicated to the Alarm Dictionary which describes alarms that are collected. The Alarm Dictionaries are integrated by the IMS in the O-Cloud and provided to the SMO for consumption.

##### 3.2.4.13.2 Resource definition
3.2.4.13.2.1 Resource URI for Alarm Dictionaries Resource URI: {apiRoot}/O2ims_infrastructureInventory/{apiMajorVersion}/alarmDictionaries/{alarmDictionaryId} This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in Table 3.2.4.13.2.1-1. Name Data type Definition apiRoot String See clause 3.1.2 apiMajorVersion String See clause 3.1.2 alarmDictionaryId Identifier The alarmDictionaryId is a unique identifier that singles out an individual Alarm Dictionary of interest.
> NOTE: This identifier can be retrieved from the alarmDictionaryId attribute in the payload body of the response to a
GET request getting a "ResourceType" resource. It can also be retrieved from the payload body of the response to a GET request getting “AlarmDictionaries” 3.2.4.13.2.2 Resource URI for Resource Type Alarm Dictionary Resource URI: {apiRoot}/O2ims_infrastructureInventory/{apiMajorVersion}/resourceTypes/{resourceTypeId}/alarmDictionary This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in Table 3.2.4.13.2.2-1. Name Data type Definition apiRoot String See clause 3.1.2 apiMajorVersion String See clause 3.1.2 resourceTypeId Identifier The identifier of the Resource Type Description resource. See Note.
> NOTE: This identifier can be retrieved from the resourceTypeId attribute in the payload body of the response to a GET
request getting the list of "ResourceType" resources.

##### 3.2.4.13.3 Resource methods
3.2.4.13.3.1 POST This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.2.4.13.3.2 GET The GET operation is used to retrieve a single dictionary. This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in Table 3.2.4.13.3.2-1. Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability n/a This method shall support the request data structures, the response data structures, and response codes specified in Request Data type Cardinality Description body n/a Response Data type Cardinality Description Codes AlarmDictionary 1 200 OK Shall be returned when information about an AlarmDictionary instance has been queried Response successfully. The response body shall contain a body representation of the AlarmDictionary instance, as defined in clause 3.2.6.2.8. ProblemDetails See 4xx/5xx In addition to the response codes defined above, any clause 3.1. common error response code as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] may be returned. 3.2.4.13.3.3 PUT This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.2.4.13.3.4 PATCH This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.2.4.13.3.5 DELETE This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22].

#### 3.2.4.14 REST resource: Alarm Dictionary List

##### 3.2.4.14.1 Description
The Alarm Dictionary List resource represents the collection of Alarm Dictionaries. The API consumer can use this resource to query multiple Alarm Dictionaries.

##### 3.2.4.14.2 Resource definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/O2ims_infrastructureInventory/{apiMajorVersion}/alarmDictionaries This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in Table 3.2.4.14.2-1. Name Data type Definition apiRoot String See clause 3.1.2 apiMajorVersion String See clause 3.1.2

##### 3.2.4.14.3 Resource methods
3.2.4.14.3.1 POST This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.2.4.14.3.2 GET The GET operation is used to retrieve a list of Alarm dictionaries. This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in Table 3.2.4.14.3.2-1. Name Cardinality Description Filter 0..1 Attribute-based filtering expression according to clause 5.2 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. The O-Cloud shall support receiving this parameter as part of the URI query string. The API consumer may supply this parameter. All attribute names that appear in the AlarmDictionary shall be supported by the O-Cloud in the filter expression. all_fields 0..1 Include all complex attributes in the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud shall support this parameter. Fields 0..1 Complex attributes to be included into the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud should support this parameter. exclude_fields 0..1 Complex attributes to be excluded from the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud should support this parameter. exclude_default 0..1 Indicates to exclude the following complex attributes from the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud shall support this parameter. The following attributes shall be excluded from the list of AlarmDictionary in the response body if this parameter is provided, or none of the parameters "all_fields", "fields", "exclude_fields", "exclude_default" are provided:
- alarmDefinition
nextpage_opaque 0..1 Marker to obtain the next page of a paged response. Shall be supported by _marker the O-Cloud if the O-Cloud supports alternative 2 (paging) according to clause 5.4.2.1 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for this resource. This method shall support the request data structures, the response data structures, and response codes specified in Request Data type Cardinality Description body n/a Response Data type Cardinality Description Codes AlarmDictionary 0..N 200 OK Shall be returned when information about zero or more AlarmDictionary instances has been queried successfully. The response body shall contain in an array the representations of zero or more AlarmDictionary instance(s), as defined in clause 3.2.6.2.8. If the "filter" URI parameter or one of the "all_fields", "fields" (if supported), "exclude_fields" (if supported) or "exclude_default" URI parameters was supplied in the request, the data in the response body shall have been transformed according to the rules specified in clauses 5.2.2 and 5.3.2 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22], respectively. If the O-Cloud supports alternative 2 (paging) according to clause 5.4.2.1 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for this resource, inclusion of the Link HTTP Response header in this response shall follow the provisions in body clause 5.4.2.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. ProblemDetails 1 400 Bad Shall be returned upon the following error: Invalid Request attribute-based filtering expression. The response body shall contain a ProblemDetails structure, in which the "detail" attribute should convey more information about the error. ProblemDetails 1 400 Bad Shall be returned upon the following error: Invalid Request attribute selector. The response body shall contain a ProblemDetails structure, in which the "detail" attribute should convey more information about the error. ProblemDetails 1 400 Bad Shall be returned upon the following error: Response Request too big. If the O-Cloud supports alternative 1 (error) according to clause 5.4.2.1 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for this resource, this error response shall follow the provisions in clause 5.4.2.2 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. ProblemDetails See 4xx/5xx In addition to the response codes defined above, any clause 3.1. common error response code as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] may be returned. 3.2.4.14.3.3 PUT This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.2.4.14.3.4 PATCH This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.2.4.14.3.5 DELETE This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22].

#### 3.2.4.15 REST resource: Performance Dictionary

##### 3.2.4.15.1 Description
The Performance Dictionary REST resource dedicated to the Performance Dictionary which describes performance measurements that can be collected. The Performance Dictionaries are integrated by the IMS in the O-Cloud and provided to the SMO for consumption.

##### 3.2.4.15.2 Resource definition
3.2.4.15.2.1 Resource URI for Performance Dictionaries Resource URI: {apiRoot}/O2ims_infrastructureInventory/{apiMajorVersion}/performanceDictionaries/{performanceDictionary Id} This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in Table 3.2.4.15.2.1-1. Name Data type Definition apiRoot String See clause 3.1.2 apiMajorVersion String See clause 3.1.2 performanceDictionaryId Idenfitier The performanceDictionaryId is a unique identifier that singles out an individual performance dictionary of interest.
> NOTE: This identifier can be retrieved from the performanceDictionaryId attribute in the payload body of the response
to a GET request getting a "ResourceType" resource. It can also be retrieved from the payload body of the response to a GET request getting “PerformanceDictionaries” 3.2.4.15.2.2 Resource URI for Resource Type Performance Dictionary Resource URI: Resource URI: {apiRoot}/O2ims_infrastructureInventory/{apiMajorVersion}/resourceTypes/{resourceTypeId}/performanceDic tionary This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in Table 3.2.4.15.2.2-1. Name Data type Definition apiRoot String See clause 3.1.2 apiMajorVersion String See clause 3.1.2 resourceTypeId Identifier The identifier of the Resource Type Description resource. See Note.
> NOTE: This identifier can be retrieved from the resourceTypeId attribute in the payload body of the response to a GET
request getting the list of "ResourceType" resources.

##### 3.2.4.15.3 Resource methods
3.2.4.15.3.1 POST This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.2.4.15.3.2 GET The GET operation is used to retrieve a single dictionary. This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in Table 3.2.4.15.3.2-1. Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability This method shall support the request data structures, the response data structures, and response codes specified in Request Data type Cardinality Description body n/a Response Data type Cardinality Description Codes PerformanceDictionary 1 200 OK Shall be returned when information about an PerformanceDictionary instance has been queried Response successfully. The response body shall contain a body representation of the PerformanceDictionary instance, as defined in clause 3.2.6.2.11. ProblemDetails See 4xx/5xx In addition to the response codes defined above, any clause 3.1. common error response code as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] may be returned. 3.2.4.15.3.3 PUT This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.2.4.15.3.4 PATCH This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.2.4.15.3.5 DELETE This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22].

#### 3.2.4.16 REST resource: Performance Dictionary List

##### 3.2.4.16.1 Description
The Performance Dictionary List resource represents the collection of Performance Dictionaries. The API consumer can use this resource to query multiple Performance Dictionaries.

##### 3.2.4.16.2 Resource definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/O2ims_infrastructureInventory/{apiMajorVersion}/performanceDictionaries This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in Table 3.2.4.16.2-1. Name Data type Definition apiRoot String See clause 3.1.2 apiMajorVersion String See clause 3.1.2

##### 3.2.4.16.3 Resource methods
3.2.4.16.3.1 POST This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.2.4.16.3.2 GET The GET operation is used to retrieve a list of Performance dictionaries. This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in Table 3.2.4.16.3.2-1. Name Cardinality Description Filter 0..1 Attribute-based filtering expression according to clause 5.2 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. The O-Cloud shall support receiving this parameter as part of the URI query string. The API consumer may supply this parameter. All attribute names that appear in the PerformanceDictionary shall be supported by the O-Cloud in the filter expression. all_fields 0..1 Include all complex attributes in the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud shall support this parameter. Fields 0..1 Complex attributes to be included into the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud should support this parameter. exclude_fields 0..1 Complex attributes to be excluded from the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud should support this parameter. exclude_default 0..1 Indicates to exclude the following complex attributes from the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud shall support this parameter. The following attributes shall be excluded from the list of PerformanceDictionary in the response body if this parameter is provided, or none of the parameters "all_fields", "fields", "exclude_fields", "exclude_default" are provided:
- PerformanceMeasureDefinition
nextpage_opaque 0..1 Marker to obtain the next page of a paged response. Shall be supported by _marker the O-Cloud if the O-Cloud supports alternative 2 (paging) according to clause 5.4.2.1 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for this resource. This method shall support the request data structures, the response data structures, and response codes specified in Request Data type Cardinality Description body n/a Response Data type Cardinality Description Codes PerformanceDictionary 0..N 200 OK Shall be returned when information about zero or more PerformanceDictionary instances has been queried successfully. The response body shall contain in an array the representations of zero or more PerformanceDictionary instance(s), as defined in clause 3.2.6.2.12. If the "filter" URI parameter or one of the "all_fields", "fields" (if supported), "exclude_fields" (if supported) or "exclude_default" URI parameters was supplied in the request, the data in the response body shall have been transformed according to the rules specified in clauses 5.2.2 and 5.3.2 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22], respectively. If the O-Cloud supports alternative 2 (paging) according to clause 5.4.2.1 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for this resource, inclusion of the Link HTTP Response header in this response shall follow the provisions in body clause 5.4.2.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. ProblemDetails 1 400 Bad Shall be returned upon the following error: Invalid Request attribute-based filtering expression. The response body shall contain a ProblemDetails structure, in which the "detail" attribute should convey more information about the error. ProblemDetails 1 400 Bad Shall be returned upon the following error: Invalid Request attribute selector. The response body shall contain a ProblemDetails structure, in which the "detail" attribute should convey more information about the error. ProblemDetails 1 400 Bad Shall be returned upon the following error: Response Request too big. If the O-Cloud supports alternative 1 (error) according to clause 5.4.2.1 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for this resource, this error response shall follow the provisions in clause 5.4.2.2 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. ProblemDetails See 4xx/5xx In addition to the response codes defined above, any clause 3.1. common error response code as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] may be returned. 3.2.4.16.3.3 PUT This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.2.4.16.3.4 PATCH This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.2.4.16.3.5 DELETE This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22].

#### 3.2.4.17 REST resource: Location List

##### 3.2.4.17.1 Description
This resource represents the list of Locations where O-Cloud Sites can be available. The Location List contains Location Descriptions.

##### 3.2.4.17.2 Resource definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/O2ims_infrastructureInventory/{apiMajorVersion}/locations This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in Table 3.2.4.17.2-1. Name Data type Definition apiRoot String See clause 3.1.2 apiMajorVersion String See clause 3.1.2

##### 3.2.4.17.3 Resource methods
3.2.4.17.3.1 POST This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.2.4.17.3.2 GET The GET operation is used to retrieve the list of locations. This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in Table 3.2.4.17.3.2-1. Name Cardinality Description filter 0..1 Attribute-based filtering expression according to clause 5.2 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. The O-Cloud shall support receiving this parameter as part of the URI query string. The API consumer may supply this parameter. All attribute names that appear in the LocationInfo and in data types referenced from it shall be supported by the O-Cloud in the filter expression. all_fields 0..1 Include all complex attributes in the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud shall support this parameter. fields 0..1 Complex attributes to be included into the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud should support this parameter. exclude_fields 0..1 Complex attributes to be excluded from the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud should support this parameter. exclude_default 0..1 Indicates to exclude the following complex attributes from the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud shall support this parameter. The following attributes shall be excluded from the list of LocationInfo in the response body if this parameter is provided, or none of the parameters "all_fields", "fields", "exclude_fields", "exclude_default" are provided:
- TBD
nextpage_opaque 0..1 Marker to obtain the next page of a paged response. Shall be supported by _marker the O-Cloud if the O-Cloud supports alternative 2 (paging) according to clause 5.4.2.1 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for this resource. This method shall support the request data structures, the response data structures, and response codes specified in Request Data type Cardinality Description body n/a Response Data type Cardinality Description Codes LocationInfo 0..N 200 OK Shall be returned when information about zero or more LocationInfo instances has been queried successfully. The response body shall contain in an array the representations of zero or more LocationInfo instances, as defined in clause 3.2.6.2.16. If the "filter" URI parameter or one of the "all_fields", "fields" (if supported), "exclude_fields" (if supported) or "exclude_default" URI parameters was supplied in the request, the data in the response body shall have been transformed according to the rules specified in clauses 5.2.2 and 5.3.2 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] , respectively. If the O-Cloud supports alternative 2 (paging) according to clause 5.4.2.1 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for this resource, inclusion of the Link HTTP header in this response shall follow the provisions in Response clause 5.4.2.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] . body ProblemDetails 1 400 Bad Shall be returned upon the following error: Invalid Request attribute-based filtering expression. The response body shall contain a ProblemDetails structure, in which the "detail" attribute should convey more information about the error. ProblemDetails 1 400 Bad Shall be returned upon the following error: Invalid Request attribute selector. The response body shall contain a ProblemDetails structure, in which the "detail" attribute should convey more information about the error. ProblemDetails 1 400 Bad Shall be returned upon the following error: Response Request too big. If the O-Cloud supports alternative 1 (error) according to clause 5.4.2.1 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for this resource, this error response shall follow the provisions in clause 5.4.2.2 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] . ProblemDetails See 4xx/5xx In addition to the response codes defined above, any clause 3.1. common error response code as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] may be returned. 3.2.4.17.3.3 PUT This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.2.4.17.3.4 PATCH This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.2.4.17.3.5 DELETE

#### 3.2.4.18 This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22].REST
resource: Location Description

##### 3.2.4.18.1 Description
This resource represents the description of a Location and provides information about its characteristics and other data.

##### 3.2.4.18.2 Resource definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/O2ims_infrastructureInventory/{apiMajorVersion}/locations/{globalLocationId} This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in Table 3.2.4.18.2-1. Name Data type Definition apiRoot String See clause 3.1.2 apiMajorVersion String See clause 3.1.2 globalLocationId Identifier The identifier of the Location Description resource. See note.
> NOTE: This identifier can be retrieved from the globalLocationId attribute in the payload body of the response to a
GET request getting the list of "Location" resources.

##### 3.2.4.18.3 Resource methods
3.2.4.18.3.1 POST This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.2.4.18.3.2 GET The GET operation is used to retrieve the resource type description of a single location. This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in Table 3.2.4.18.3.2-1. Name Cardinality Description n/a This method shall support the request data structures, the response data structures, and response codes specified in Request Data type Cardinality Description body n/a Response Data type Cardinality Description Codes LocationInfo 1 200 OK Shall be returned when information about a LocationInfo instance has been queried successfully. Response The response body shall contain a representation of body the LocationInfo instance, as defined in clause 3.2.6.2.16. ProblemDetails See 4xx/5xx In addition to the response codes defined above, any clause 3.1. common error response code as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] may be returned. 3.2.4.18.3.3 PUT This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.2.4.18.3.4 PATCH This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.2.4.18.3.5 DELETE This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22].

#### 3.2.4.19 REST resource: O-Cloud Site List

##### 3.2.4.19.1 Description
This resource represents the list of O-Cloud Sites. The O-Cloud Site List contains O-Cloud Site Descriptions.

##### 3.2.4.19.2 Resource definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/O2ims_infrastructureInventory/{apiMajorVersion}/oCloudSites This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in Table 3.2.4.19.2.-1. Name Data type Definition apiRoot String See clause 3.1.2 apiMajorVersion String See clause 3.1.2

##### 3.2.4.19.3 Resource methods
3.2.4.19.3.1 POST This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.2.4.19.3.2 GET The GET operation is used to retrieve the list of O-Cloud Sites. This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in Table 3.2.4.19.3.2-1. Name Cardinality Description filter 0..1 Attribute-based filtering expression according to clause 5.2 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. The O-Cloud shall support receiving this parameter as part of the URI query string. The API consumer may supply this parameter. All attribute names that appear in the OCloudSiteInfo and in data types referenced from it shall be supported by the O-Cloud in the filter expression. all_fields 0..1 Include all complex attributes in the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud shall support this parameter. fields 0..1 Complex attributes to be included into the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud should support this parameter. exclude_fields 0..1 Complex attributes to be excluded from the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud should support this parameter. exclude_default 0..1 Indicates to exclude the following complex attributes from the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud shall support this parameter. The following attributes shall be excluded from the list of OCloudSiteInfo in the response body if this parameter is provided, or none of the parameters "all_fields", "fields", "exclude_fields", "exclude_default" are provided:
- TBD
nextpage_opaque 0..1 Marker to obtain the next page of a paged response. Shall be supported by _marker the O-Cloud if the O-Cloud supports alternative 2 (paging) according to clause 5.4.2.1 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for this resource. This method shall support the request data structures, the response data structures, and response codes specified in Request Data type Cardinality Description body n/a Response Data type Cardinality Description Codes OCloudSiteInfo 0..N 200 OK Shall be returned when information about zero or more OCloudSiteInfo instances has been queried successfully. The response body shall contain in an array the representations of zero or more OCloudSiteInfo instances, as defined in clause 3.2.6.2.17. If the "filter" URI parameter or one of the "all_fields", "fields" (if supported), "exclude_fields" (if supported) or "exclude_default" URI parameters was supplied in the request, the data in the response body shall have been transformed according to the rules specified in clauses 5.2.2 and 5.3.2 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] , respectively. If the O-Cloud supports alternative 2 (paging) according to clause 5.4.2.1 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for this resource, inclusion of the Link HTTP Response header in this response shall follow the provisions in body clause 5.4.2.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] . ProblemDetails 1 400 Bad Shall be returned upon the following error: Invalid Request attribute-based filtering expression. The response body shall contain a ProblemDetails structure, in which the "detail" attribute should convey more information about the error. ProblemDetails 1 400 Bad Shall be returned upon the following error: Invalid Request attribute selector. The response body shall contain a ProblemDetails structure, in which the "detail" attribute should convey more information about the error. ProblemDetails 1 400 Bad Shall be returned upon the following error: Response Request too big. If the O-Cloud supports alternative 1 (error) according to clause 5.4.2.1 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for this resource, this error response shall follow the provisions in clause 5.4.2.2 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] . ProblemDetails See 4xx/5xx In addition to the response codes defined above, any clause 3.1. common error response code as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] may be returned. 3.2.4.19.3.3 PUT This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.2.4.19.3.4 PATCH This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.2.4.19.3.5 DELETE This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22].

#### 3.2.4.20 REST resource: O-Cloud Site Description

##### 3.2.4.20.1 Description
This resource represents the description of an O-Cloud Site. The O-Cloud Site Description is a record of the attributes.

##### 3.2.4.20.2 Resource definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/O2ims_infrastructureInventory/{apiMajorVersion}/oCloudSites/{oCloudSiteId} This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in Table 3.2.4.20.2-1. Name Data type Definition apiRoot String See clause 3.1.2 apiMajorVersion String See clause 3.1.2 oCloudSiteId Identifier The identifier of the O-Cloud Site Description resource. See note.
> NOTE: This identifier can be retrieved from the oCloudSiteId attribute in the payload body of the response to a GET
request getting the list of "OCloudSite" resources.

##### 3.2.4.20.3 Resource methods
3.2.4.20.3.1 POST This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.2.4.20.3.2 GET The GET operation is used to retrieve the resource type description of a single O-Cloud site. This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in Table 3.2.4.20.3.2-1. Name Cardinality Description n/a This method shall support the request data structures, the response data structures, and response codes specified in Request Data type Cardinality Description body n/a Response Data type Cardinality Description Codes OCloudSiteInfo 1 200 OK Shall be returned when information about an OCloudSiteInfo instance has been queried successfully. Response The response body shall contain a representation of body the OCloudSiteInfo instance, as defined in clause 3.2.6.2.17. ProblemDetails See 4xx/5xx In addition to the response codes defined above, any clause 3.1.5 common error response code as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] may be returned. 3.2.4.20.3.3 PUT This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.2.4.20.3.4 PATCH This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.2.4.20.3.5 DELETE This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22].

### 3.2.5 Notifications

#### 3.2.5.1 General
Notifications shall comply to the Subscribe/Notify pattern described in clause 5.9 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 015 [25]. HTTP Notification Callback URI Description method Inventory Change Inventory Subscription.callback POST Notify subscribers when Notification objects in the O2ims inventory have changed.

##### 3.2.5.1.1 Inventory Change Notification Description
The Inventory Change Notification is used by the O-Cloud Infrastructure Management Service to report changes to the O2ims Inventory to a O2ims consumer that has subscribed to such notifications.

##### 3.2.5.1.2 Target URI
The Inventory Subscription.Callback URI “{InventoryEventNotification}” shall be used with the callback URI variables define in table 3.2.5.1.2-1. Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description consumerSubscriptionId Identifier O 0..1 The value provided by the consumer in the subscription. notificationEventType Integer M 1 One of the following values:
- 0 for “CREATE”
- 1 for “MODIFY”
- 2 for “DELETE”
objectRef String CO 0..1 The URL to the object. This is not required if the notificationEventType is 2 (DELETE). It will point to one of the following data types defined in clause 3.2.6 and the reference will match the type of objects supplied in priorObjectState and/or postObjectState:
- ResourceInfo
- ResourceTypeInfo
- ResourcePoolInfo
- DeploymentManagerInfo
- CloudInfo
- LocationInfo
- OCloudSiteInfo
priorObjectState String CM 0..1 This is required if the notificationEventType is 1 (MODIFY) or 2 (DELETE) and is one of the following data types defined in clause 3.2.6 and will match the type of object in postObjectState and/or the type referred to in objectRef:
- ResourceInfo
- ResourceTypeInfo
- ResourcePoolInfo
- DeploymentManagerInfo
- CloudInfo
- LocationInfo
- OCloudSiteInfo
postObjectState String CM 0..1 This is required if the notificationEventType is 0 (CREATE) or 1 (MODIFY) and is one of the following data types defined in clause 3.2.6 and will match the type of object in priorObjectState and/or the type referred to in objectRef:
- ResourceInfo
- ResourceTypeInfo
- ResourcePoolInfo
- DeploymentManagerInfo
- CloudInfo
- LocationInfo
- OCloudSiteInfo

### 3.2.6 Data model

#### 3.2.6.1 REST resource data types
This clause specifies the data types to be used in resource representations and notifications supported by the present API. Data type Clause defined Description Applicability ResourceTypeInfo 3.2.6.2.2 This data type represents the type of a resource deployed in the O-Cloud Infrastructure. ResourcePoolInfo 3.2.6.2.3 This data type represents a logical Resource Pool for the collection of O- Cloud Resources at a location. ResourceInfo 3.2.6.2.4 This data type represents a resource instance of the O-Cloud Infrastructure DeploymentManagerInfo 3.2.6.2.5 This data type represents a Deployment Manager for managing Deployments into the O-Cloud. CloudInfo 3.2.6.2.6 This data type represents an O-Cloud instance. InventorySubscriptionInfo 3.2.6.2.7 This data type represents an instance of a subscription to O2ims Inventory change events. AlarmDictionary 3.2.6.2.8 This data type represents an Alarm Dictionary for alarms that can be reported by a given ResourceType within the O- Cloud. PerformanceDictionary 3.2.6.2.12 This data type represents a Performance Dictionary of performance measurement definitions that can be reported for a given ResourceType within the O-Cloud. LocationInfo 3.2.6.2.16 This data type represents a location instance where O-Cloud Sites can be available. OCloudSiteInfo 3.2.6.2.17 This data type represents an O-Cloud Site instance.

#### 3.2.6.2 Structured data types

##### 3.2.6.2.1 Introduction
This clause defines the structures to be used in resource representations.

##### 3.2.6.2.2 Type: ResourceTypeInfo
This type represents information about a type of a resource deployed in the O-Cloud Infrastructure. It shall comply with the provisions defined in table 3.2.6.2.2-1. Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description resourceTypeId Identifier M 1 Identifier for the Resource Type. This identifier is allocated by the O-Cloud. name String M 1 Human readable name of the resource type. description String M 1 Human readable description of the resource type. vendor String M 1 Provider of the Resource. model String M 1 Information about the model of the resource as defined by its provider. version String M 1 Version or generation of the resource as defined by its provider. alarmDictionary AlarmDictionary M 0..1 Dictionary of alarms for this resource type. See Note 1. alarmDictionaryId Identifier M 0..1 Identifier of the Alarm Dictionary for this resource type. See Note 2. performanceDictiona Identifier M 0..1 Identifier of the Performance Dictionary for this ryId resource type. See Note 2. resourceKind Enum (inlined) M 1 Value describing “physicality” of the resource type Permitted values:
- UNDEFINED
- PHYSICAL
- LOGICAL
resourceClass Enum (inlined) M 1 Functional role of the resource type within the cloud. Permitted values:
- UNDEFINED
- COMPUTE
- NETWORKING
- STORAGE
extensions KeyValuePairs M 0..1 List of metadata key-value pairs used to associate meaningful metadata to the related resource type.
> NOTE 1: alarmDictionary attribute is deprecated and it may be removed in future releases.
> NOTE 2: The IMS shall ensure that the identifier points to the same dictionary available under the URI path of the
resource type (refer to Table 3.1.6.2.2.3-1).

##### 3.2.6.2.3 Type: ResourcePoolInfo
This type represents information about a logical Resource Pool which comprises O-Cloud Resources at a location. It shall comply with the provisions defined in table 3.2.6.2.3-1. Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description resourcePoolId Identifier M 1 Identifier for the resource pool in the O-Cloud instance. This identifier is allocated by the O-Cloud. oCloudId Identifier M 1 Identifier for the containing O-Cloud. (NOTE 1) globalLocationId Identifier M 1 This identifier is copied from the O-Cloud Id assigned by the SMO during the O-Cloud deployment. (NOTE 2) name String M 1 Human readable name of the resource pool. oCloudSiteId Identifier M 1 Identifier of the O-Cloud site the resource pool is a part of. description String M 1 Human readable description of the resource pool. location String O 0..1 Information about the geographical location of the resource pool as detected by the O-Cloud. (NOTE 3) extensions KeyValuePairs O 0..1 List of metadata key-value pairs used to associate meaningful metadata to the related resource pool.
> NOTE 1: oCloudId attribute is deprecated and may be removed in future releases.
> NOTE 2: globalLocationId attribute is deprecated and may be removed in future releases.
> NOTE 3: location attribute is deprecated and may be removed in future releases.

##### 3.2.6.2.4 Type: ResourceInfo
This type represents a resource instance of the O-Cloud Infrastructure. It shall comply with the provisions defined in table 3.2.6.2.4-1. Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description resourceId Identifier M 1 Identifier for the Resource. This identifier is allocated by the O-Cloud. resourcePoolId Identifier M 1 Identifier of the Resource Pool containing this resource (refer to type “ResourcePoolInfo”). resourceTypeId Identifier M 1 Identifier for the Resource Type of this resource (refer to type “ResourceTypeInfo”). globalAssetId String CM 0..1 Identifier or serial number of the resource, if available. It is required only if the resource has been identified during its addition to the cloud as a reportable asset in the SMO inventory. description String M 1 Human readable description of the resource elements ResourceInfo M 0..N The resource might be composed of smaller resources or other resource instances of a different type tags String M 0..N Keywords describing or classifying the resource instance. groups String M 0..N Keywords denoting groups a resource belongs to. extensions KeyValuePairs M 0..1 List of metadata key-value pairs used to associate meaningful metadata to the related resource.

##### 3.2.6.2.5 Type: DeploymentManagerInfo
This type represents information about a Deployment Manager for managing Deployments into the O-Cloud. It shall comply with the provisions defined in table 3.2.6.2.5-1. Attribute name Data type P Cardina Description lity deploymentManagerId Identifier M 1 Identifier for the Deployment Manager. This identifier is allocated by the O-Cloud. name String M 1 Human readable name of the deployment manager. description String M 1 Human readable description of the deployment manager. oCloudId Identifier M 1 Identifier for the containing O-Cloud. serviceUri Uri M 1 The fully qualified URI to a Deployment Management server for O2dms services. Since the O2dms provides multiple services, this entry is for the {apiRoot} only. supportedLocations String M 1..N List of globalLocationIDs that were assigned to the O- Cloud Site(s) which this Deployment Manager supports. capabilities KeyValuePairs M 0..N Information about the capabilities supported by the Deployment Manager and its set of deployment management services based on the resources allocated to the Deployment Manager. capacity KeyValuePairs M 0..N Information about the available, allocated and reserved capacity of O-Cloud Resources allocated to the Deployment Manager. extensions KeyValuePairs O 0..N List of metadata key-value pairs used to associate meaningful metadata to the related Deployment Manager.

##### 3.2.6.2.6 Type: CloudInfo
This type represents information about an O-Cloud instance. It shall comply with the provisions defined in table 3.2.6.2.6-1. Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description oCloudId Identifier M 1 Identifier of the O-Cloud instance. Internally generated within an O-Cloud instance. globalCloudId Identifier M 1 Identifier of the O-Cloud instance. Globally unique across O-Cloud instances. This value was provided by the SMO with the callback URI at the beginning of O- Cloud genesis and used in registration at the end of genesis. name String M 1 Human readable name of the O-Cloud. description String M 1 Human readable description of the O-Cloud. serviceUri Uri M 1 The fully qualified URI root to all services provided by the O2ims interface, Inventory only being one of them. Since the O2ims provides multiple services this entry is for the {apiRoot} only. extensions KeyValuePairs M 0..1 These are unspecified (not standardized) properties (keys) which are tailored by the vendor to extend the information provided about the O-Cloud.

##### 3.2.6.2.7 Type: InventorySubscriptionInfo
This type represents information about an instance of a subscription to O2ims Inventory change events. It shall comply with the provisions defined in table 3.2.6.2.7-1. Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description subscriptionId Identifier M 1 Identifier for the Subscription. This identifier is allocated by the O-Cloud. consumerSubscriptionId String O 0..1 Identifier for the consumer of events sent due to the Subscription. filter String O 0..1 Criteria for events which do not need to be reported or will be filtered by the subscription notification service. Therefore, if a filter is not provided then all events are reported. callback Uri M 1 The fully qualified URI to a consumer procedure which can process a Post of the InventoryEventNotification.

##### 3.2.6.2.8 Type: AlarmDictionary
This type represents information about alarms that can be reported by a given ResourceType within the O-Cloud. The Alarm Dictionary object is defined not only for O-Clouds but for Network Functions as well. Therefore, its structure may overlap with other O-Cloud structures and contain redundant information that is used by the SMO. It shall comply with the provisions defined in table 3.2.6.2.8-1. Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description alarmDictionaryId Identifier M 1 The Identifier of the Alarm Dictionary. The Identifier is unique within an O-Cloud. alarmDictionaryVersion String M 1 Version of the Alarm Dictionary. Version is vendor defined such that the version of the dictionary can be associated with a specific version of the software delivery of this product. alarmDictionarySchema String Constant M 1 Version of the Alarm Dictionary Schema to which this Version (See Note 1) alarm dictionary conforms. (See Note 2) entityType String M 1 O-RAN entity type emitting the alarm: This shall be unique per vendor ResourceType.model and ResourceType.version vendor String M 1 Vendor of the Entity Type to whom this Alarm Dictionary applies. This should be the same value as in the ResourceType.vendor attribute. managementInterfaceId ENUM M 1..N List of management interface over which alarms are -O1 transmitted for this Entity Type. -O2DMS -O2IMS RESTRICTION: For the O-Cloud IMS Services this -OpenFH value is limited to O2IMS. (See Note 3) pkNotificationField String Constant M 1..N Identifies which field or list of fields in the alarm "alarmDefinition notification contains the primary key (PK) into the Id" Alarm Dictionary for this interface; i.e. which field contains the Alarm Definition ID. alarmDefinition AlarmDefinition M 1..N Contains the list of alarms that can be detected against this ResourceType. probableCauses ProbableCause M 1..N Contains the list of Probable Causes that indicate the root cause of the Alarm events.
> NOTE 1: String value is not yet defined but would match a specific Schema Version.
> NOTE 2: The specific value for this should be defined in the IM/DM specification for the Alarm Dictionary Model
Schema when it is published at a future date.
> NOTE 3: Italicized and grayed text is only provided for informative purposes. These values are used by other dictionary
providers, but not the O2 IMS.

##### 3.2.6.2.9 Type: AlarmDefinition
This type represents information about an alarm that can be reported by a given ResourceType within the O-Cloud. It shall comply with the provisions defined in table 3.2.6.2.9-1. Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description alarmDefinitionId UUID M 1 Provides a unique identifier of the alarm being raised. This is the Primary Key into the Alarm Dictionary. alarmName String M 1 Provides short name for the alarm. alarmLastChange String M 1 Indicates the Alarm Dictionary Version in which this alarm last changed. alarmChangeType ENUM: M 1 Indicates the type of change that occurred during the -added alarm last change; added, deleted, modified. -deleted -modified alarmDescription String M 1 Provides a longer descriptive meaning of the alarm condition and a description of the consequences of the alarm condition. This is intended to be read by an operator to give an idea of what happened and a sense of the effects, consequences, and other impacted areas of the system. proposedRepairActions String M 1 Provides guidance for proposed repair actions. clearingType ENUM: M 1 Identifies whether alarm is cleared automatically or -automatic manually. -manual managementInterfaceId ENUM M 0..N List of management interface over which alarms are -O1 transmitted for this Entity Type. -O2DMS -O2IMS RESTRICTION: For the O-Cloud IMS Services this -OpenFH value is limited to O2IMS. (See Note 1) pkNotificationField String Constant M 0..N Identifies which field or list of fields in the alarm "alarmDefinition notification contains the primary key (PK) into the Id" Alarm Dictionary for this interface; i.e. which field contains the Alarm Definition ID. alarmAdditionalFields KeyValuePairs M 0..N List of metadata key-value pairs used to associate meaningful metadata to the related resource type.
> NOTE 1: Italized and grayed text is only provided for informative purposes. These values are used by other dictionary
providers, but not the O2 IMS.

##### 3.2.6.2.10 Type: ProbableCause
This type represents information about the ProbableCause which provides an indication of the root cause of an alarm event. ProbableCause is intended to help operators determine the root cause of an alarm event. It shall comply with the provisions defined in table 3.2.6.2.10-1. There are industry suggested lists of probable causes that could be used. When used the ProbableCause definition should allow for an indication of such a source. See O-RAN WG10 Information Model and Data Models [37], clause 5.2.1.4.13. Alarm Definitions may provide one or more ProbableCause(s) as part of their extended fields. However, each alarm event should have a ProbableCause that is specific to that alarm instance. The ProbableCause(s) used by the product vendor for alarm events shall be listed independently in the alarm dictionary. Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description probableCauseCode String M 1 This identifies a specific probableCause instance in the AlarmDictionary. This is the Primary Key into the probableCauses. probableCauseDescripti String M 1 This provides any additional information beyond the on probableCauseCode to describe the probable cause standardReference StandardRefere M 0..1 This gives a reference to the standard body when the nce Probable Cause definition has been provided by another Standards body.

##### 3.2.6.2.11 Type: StandardReference
When definition has been provided by another Standards body this dataType provides a reference to the standard body that is author of particular definition, as well as to where the definition can be found. It shall comply with the provisions defined in table 3.2.6.2.11-1. Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description standardDefinitionOrgani String M 1 Provides the Organization that provided the Definition zation standardSpecification String M 1 Gives the Specification of the Standards Organization versionOrRelease String M 1 Gives the version of the Specification of interest
> NOTE: With reference to the baseline modeling in the O-RAN.WG10.Information Model and Data Models [37], the
“clause” attribute in the type “StandardReference” is not specified in the present document version.

##### 3.2.6.2.12 Type: PerformanceDictionary
This type represents information about performance measurements for a performance dictionary that can be reported by a given ResourceType within the O-Cloud. It shall comply with the provisions defined in table 3.2.6.2.12-1. These are also described in O-RAN.WG10.Information Model and Data Models [37], clause 5.2.1. Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description performanceDictionaryId Identifier M 1 The Identifier of the Alarm Dictionary. The Identifier is unique within an O-Cloud. performanceDictionaryV String M 1 Version of the Performance Dictionary ersion performanceDictionaryS String M 1 Schema Version of the Performance Dictionary chemaVersion vendorSoftwareProduct String M 1 Vendor Software Product supportedInterfaces ENUM M 1 This gives the supported interfaces for the -O1 Performance Dictionary -O2DMS -O2IMS -OpenFH (See Note 1) supportedMeasurements PerformanceMe M 1..N This lists the supported Performance Measurements asurementDefin ition
> NOTE 1: Italized and grayed text is only provided for informative purposes. These values are used by other dictionary
providers, but not the O2 IMS.

##### 3.2.6.2.13 Type: PerformanceMeasurementDefinition
This type represents a performance measurement definition. The PerformanceMeasurementDefinition inherits attributes from Top IOC (defined in 3GPP TS 28.622 [39], clause 4.3.29). It shall comply with the provisions defined in table 3.2.6.2.13-1. Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description performanceMeasureme UUID M 1 Provides a unique identifier of the performance ntDefinitionId Measurement. This is the Primary Key into the Performance Dictionary. performanceMeasureme String M 1 This gives the Performance Measurement Id ntId standardReference String M 1 Gives the Standards Reference from which this Performance Measurement comes from supportedInterfaces String M 0..1 Supported Interfaces extensions KeyValuePairs M 0..1 This gives Extension measurementDefinition 3GPPPerforma M 0 if ETSI, 1 if If it is a 3GPP measurement, this would use the nceMeasureme 3GPP. 3GPP Performance Measurement Definition ntDefinition (See Note) (concrete class). See Note measurementDefinition ETSIPerforman M 0 if 3GPP, 1 If it is a ETSI measurement, this would use the ETSI ceMeasurement if ETSI. Performance Measurement Definition (concrete Definition (See Note) class). See Note
> NOTE: The measurementDefinition would be either 3GPPPerformanceMeasurementDefinition or
ETSIPerformanceMeasurementDefinition. The “P” is “M” because this needs to be supported on the interface.

##### 3.2.6.2.14 Type: 3GPPPerformanceMeasurementDefinition
The 3GPPPerformanceMeasurementDefinition is a concrete class of the PerformanceMeasurementDefinition_ class from which it inherits attributes from. It extends the class with attribute fields defined in 3GPP TS 32.404 [40] clause 3.3.

##### 3.2.6.2.15 Type: ETSIPerformanceMeasurementDefinition
The ETSIPerformanceMeasurementDefinition is a concrete class of the PerformanceMeasurementDefinition_ class from which it inherits attributes from. It extends the class with attribute fields defined in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 027 [41] clause 5.

##### 3.2.6.2.16 Type: LocationInfo
This type represents information about a location, where O-Cloud Site may be available. It shall comply with the provisions defined in table 3.2.6.2.16-1. Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description globalLocationId String M 1 Identifier of the location as defined by the SMO. name String M 1 Human readable name of the location as defined by the SMO. description String M 1 Human readable description of the location. oCloudSiteIds Identifier M 0.. N List of O-Cloud Site identifiers referencing the O-Cloud Sites available at the location. coordinate Point M 0.. N The coordinates (including latitude and longitude) of the (see [43]) location. The content of this attribute shall follow the provisions for the “Point” geometry object as defined IETF RFC 7946 [43], for which the “type” member shall be set to the value “Point”. See note. civicAdress Structure M 0..N Civic address of the location. It includes zero or more (inlined) elements comprising the civic address. See note. >caType Integer M 1 Describes the content type of caValue. The value of caType shall comply with IETF RFC 4776 [45]. >caValue String M 1 Content of civic address element corresponding to the caType. The format caValue shall comply with section 3.4 of IETF RFC 4776 [45]. address String M 0.. 1 Human readable format of address of the location. See note. extensions KeyValuePairs M 0..1 List of metadata key-value pairs used to associate meaningful metadata to the related location.
> NOTE: At least one of the “coordinate” or “civicAddress” or “address” shall be provided.

##### 3.2.6.2.17 Type: OCloudSiteInfo
This type represents information about O-Cloud site instance. It shall comply with the provisions defined in table 3.2.6.2.17-1. Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description oCloudSiteId Identifier M 1 Identifier of the O-Cloud site. Locally unique within the scope of an O-Cloud instance. globalLocationId String M 1 Identifier of location where the O-Cloud site is deployed at. name String M 1 Human readable name of the O-Cloud site as identified by the cloud provider. description String M 1 Human readable description of the O-Cloud site as provided by the cloud provider. resourcePools Identifier M 1.. N List of resource pools that are part of the O-Cloud site. extensions KeyValuePairs M 0..1 List of metadata key-value pairs used to associate meaningful metadata to the related O-Cloud site.

#### 3.2.6.3 Simple data types and enumerations

##### 3.2.6.3.1 Introduction
This clause defines simple data types and enumerations that can be referenced from data structures defined in the previous clauses. The simple data types defined in a request body, response body, or a structured type are defined in ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] or this clause of the specification.

##### 3.2.6.3.2 Simple data types
The simple data types defined in table 3.2.6.3.2-1 shall be supported. Type Name Type Definition Description n/a

### 3.2.7 Error handling

#### 3.2.7.1 General
For the O2ims_InfrastructureInventory Service API, HTTP error responses shall be supported as specified in clause 3.1.5. In addition, the requirements in the following clauses are applicable for the O2ims_InfrastructureInventory Service API.

#### 3.2.7.2 Protocol errors
No specific protocol errors for the O2ims_InfrastructureInventory Service API are specified.

#### 3.2.7.3 Application errors
No specific application errors for the O2ims_InfrastructureInventory Service API are specified

### 3.2.8 Security
No specific security procedures for the O2ims_InfrastructureInventory Service API are specified beyond those in clause 3.1.7.

## 3.3 O2ims_InfrastructureMonitoring Service API

### 3.3.1 Description
This API allows the SMO to invoke O2ims_InfrastructureMonitoring Services towards the O-Cloud. The operations defined for O2ims_InfrastructureMonitoring Services through this API are:
- Query information about one or multiple Alarms;
- Create a subscription to Alarms of interest;
- Notify consumer identified by an established subscription which is not filtered by the filter criteria of the
occurrence of a change to the alarm objects;
- Acknowledge an Alarm;
- Clear an Alarm;
- Ability to query and modify the configurable values which govern the behaviour of the Alarm Service; and
- Purge Alarms
Services for IMS Heartbeat are not specified in the present document version.

### 3.3.2 API version
For the O2ims_InfrastructureMonitoring Service API version as specified in the present document, the MAJOR version field shall be 2, the MINOR version field shall be 0, and the PATCH version field shall be 0. added/removed across versions. Version Description

### 1.0.0 Initial API Supporting:
Alarm Query Alarm Subscription Alarm Notification

### 1.1.0 New methods:
Acknowledge Alarm Clear Alarm Alarm Service Configure

### 1.2.0 Updated methods:
Alarm Subscription New resources: Purge Alarms Task Task Operation List Task Operation Occurrence

### 2.0.0 Updated Notification:
Alarm Change Notification Updated Data Type: AlarmSubscriptionInfo AlarmEventRecord Alarm Change Notification

### 3.3.3 REST resources structure and methods
All resource URIs of the API shall use the base URI specification defined in clause 3.1.2. The string "O2ims_infrastructureMonitoring" shall be used to represent {apiName}. All resource URIs in the clauses below are defined relative to the formed base URI (i.e., {apiRoot}/O2ims_infrastructureMonitoring/{apiMajorVersion}). When ambiguity is possible, the term REST resource is used to make the distinction between the term resource as understood within the context of REST API from the term resource as understood within the context of O-RAN. The O-Cloud shall support responding to requests for all HTTP methods on the resources in table 3.3.3-1 that are marked as “M” (mandatory) in the “Cat” column. The O-Cloud shall also support the “API versions” resources as specified in clause 3.1.8. HTTP Cat Resource name Resource URI Description method Alarm List /alarms GET M To get a list of alarms Alarm Record /alarms/{alarmEventRecordId} GET M To get an individual alarm record PATCH M To modify (acknowledge, clear) an individual alarm record Purge Alarms Task /alarms/purge POST M To purge alarms from the list. Alarm Subscription /alarmSubscriptions POST M To create an individual alarm List subscription GET M To get a list of alarm subscriptions Alarm Subscription /alarmSubscriptions/{alarmSubscriptionId} GET M To get an individual alarm Description subscription description DELETE M To delete an individual alarm subscription Alarm Service /alarmServiceConfiguration GET M To get the current Configuration configuration of the alarm service. PUT M To set a whole new configuration of the alarm service. PATCH M Partially update the configuration of the alarm service. Task Operation List /taskOperations GET M To query information about multiple task operation occurrences related to alarm management. Task Operation /taskOperations/{operationOcurrenceId} GET M To query information Occurrence about a specific task operation occurrence related to alarm management.

### 3.3.4 REST resources

#### 3.3.4.1 Introduction
There are no preconditions or postconditions for a successful execution of each of the O2ims_InfrastructureMonitoring Service API triggered by a corresponding operation.

#### 3.3.4.2 REST resource: Alarm List

##### 3.3.4.2.1 Description
This resource represents the list of alarms that the O-Cloud has seen during its alarm retention period. The Alarm List can contain Alarm Records.

##### 3.3.4.2.2 Resource definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/O2ims_infrastructureMonitoring/{apiMajorVersion}/alarms This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in Table 3.3.4.2.2 1. Name Data type Definition apiRoot string See clause 3.1.2 apiMajorVersion string See clause 3.1.2

##### 3.3.4.2.3 Resource methods
3.3.4.2.3.1 POST This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.3.4.2.3.2 GET The GET operation is used to retrieve the list of alarms. This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in Table 3.3.4.2.3.2 1. Name Cardinality Description filter 0..1 Attribute-based filtering expression according to clause 5.2 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] . The O-Cloud shall support receiving this parameter as part of the URI query string. The API consumer may supply this parameter. All attribute names that appear in the AlarmEventRecord and in data types referenced from it shall be supported by the O-Cloud in the filter expression. all_fields 0..1 Include all complex attributes in the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud shall support this parameter. fields 0..1 Complex attributes to be included into the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud should support this parameter. exclude_fields 0..1 Complex attributes to be excluded from the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud should support this parameter. exclude_default 0..1 Indicates to exclude the following complex attributes from the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud shall support this parameter. The following attributes shall be excluded from the list of AlarmEventRecord in the response body if this parameter is provided, or none of the parameters "all_fields", "fields", "exclude_fields", "exclude_default" are provided:
- TBD
nextpage_opaque 0..1 Marker to obtain the next page of a paged response. Shall be supported by _marker the O-Cloud if the O-Cloud supports alternative 2 (paging) according to clause 5.4.2.1 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for this resource. This method shall support the request data structures, the response data structures, and response codes specified in Request Data type Cardinality Description body n/a Response Data type Cardinality Description Codes AlarmEventRecord 0..N 200 OK Shall be returned when information about zero or more AlarmEventRecord instances has been queried successfully. The response body shall contain in an array the representations of zero or more AlarmEventRecord instances, as defined in clause 3.3.6.2.2. If the "filter" URI parameter or one of the "all_fields", "fields" (if supported), "exclude_fields" (if supported) or "exclude_default" URI parameters was supplied in the request, the data in the response body shall have been transformed according to the rules specified in clauses 5.2.2 and 5.3.2 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22], respectively. If the O-Cloud supports alternative 2 (paging) according to clause 5.4.2.1 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for this resource, inclusion of the Link HTTP Response header in this response shall follow the provisions in body clause 5.4.2.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. ProblemDetails 1 400 Bad Shall be returned upon the following error: Invalid Request attribute-based filtering expression. The response body shall contain a ProblemDetails structure, in which the "detail" attribute should convey more information about the error. ProblemDetails 1 400 Bad Shall be returned upon the following error: Invalid Request attribute selector. The response body shall contain a ProblemDetails structure, in which the "detail" attribute should convey more information about the error. ProblemDetails 1 400 Bad Shall be returned upon the following error: Response Request too big. If the O-Cloud supports alternative 1 (error) according to clause 5.4.2.1 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for this resource, this error response shall follow the provisions in clause 5.4.2.2 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. ProblemDetails See 4xx/5xx In addition to the response codes defined above, any clause 3.1. common error response code as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] may be returned. 3.3.4.2.3.3 PUT This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.3.4.2.3.4 PATCH This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.3.4.2.3.5 DELETE This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22].

#### 3.3.4.3 REST resource: Alarm Record

##### 3.3.4.3.1 Description
This resource represents the details of an Alarm Record in the Alarm List. The Alarm Record is a record of the details of an Alarm since its creation.

##### 3.3.4.3.2 Resource definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/O2ims_infrastructureMonitoring/{apiMajorVersion}/alarms/{alarmEventRecordId} This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in Table 3.3.4.3.2 1. Name Data type Definition apiRoot String See clause 3.1.2 apiMajorVersion String See clause 3.1.2 alarmEventRecordId Identifier The identifier of the Alarm Record resource. See note.
> NOTE: This identifier can be retrieved from the alarmEventRecordId attribute in the payload body of the response to
a GET request getting the list of "Alarm Record" resources.

##### 3.3.4.3.3 Resource methods
3.3.4.3.3.1 POST This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.3.4.3.3.2 GET The GET operation is used to retrieve the details of a single Alarm Event Record. This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in Table 3.3.4.3.3.2 1. Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability n/a This method shall support the request data structures, the response data structures, and response codes specified in Request Data type Cardinality Description body n/a Response Data type Cardinality Description Codes AlarmEventRecord 1 200 OK Shall be returned when information about a AlarmEventRecord instance has been queried successfully. Response The response body shall contain a representation of body the AlarmEventRecord instance, as defined in clause 3.3.6.2.2. ProblemDetails See 4xx/5xx In addition to the response codes defined above, any clause 3.1. common error response code as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] may be returned. 3.3.4.3.3.3 PUT This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.3.4.3.3.4 PATCH The PATCH method is used to modify an individual alarm record. Supported modifications of an individual alarm record include:
- Acknowledging an alarm, and
- Clearing an alarm.

# A PATCH request shall only target a single type of modification from the list above. Upon processing the request, the IMS shall update the requested attributes from the "AlarmEventRecord" (see clause 3.3.6.2.2) representing the
individual alarm record, as well as other related attributes concerning the requested modifications. For instance, if the alarm record is requested to be acknowledged, the "alarmAcknowledgeTime" attribute in the "AlarmEventRecord" is expected to be also updated accordingly. This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in Table 3.3.4.3.3.4-1. Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability n/a This method shall support the request data structures, the response data structures, and response codes specified in Data type Cardinality Description AlarmEventRecordModi 1 The parameter for the alarm record modification, as defined in clause Request fications 3.3.6.2.4. body The Content-Type header shall be set to "application/merge- patch+json" according to IETF RFC 7396 [29]. Response Data type Cardinality Description Codes AlarmEventRecordModi 1 200 OK Shall be returned when the request has been accepted fications and completed. The response body shall contain attribute modifications for an individual alarm record resource (see clause 3.3.6.2.2). ProblemDetails 1 409 Conflict Shall be returned upon the following error: The operation cannot be executed currently, due to a conflict with the state of the individual alarm record resource. Typically, this is due to the fact that the alarm is already in the state that is requested to be set (such as trying to acknowledge an already-acknowledged alarm, Response or clearing an already-cleared alarm). body The response body shall contain a ProblemDetails structure, in which the "detail" attribute shall convey more information about the error. ProblemDetails 0..1 412 Shall be returned upon the following error: A Preconditio precondition given in an HTTP request header is not n failed fulfilled. Typically, this is due to an ETag mismatch, indicating that the resource was modified by another entity. The response body should contain a ProblemDetails structure, in which the "detail" attribute should convey more information about the error. ProblemDetails See 4xx/5xx In addition to the response codes defined above, any clause 3.1. common error response code as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] may be returned. 3.3.4.3.3.5 DELETE This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22].

#### 3.3.4.4 REST resource: Alarm Subscription List

##### 3.3.4.4.1 Description
This resource represents the set of Alarm Subscriptions in the O-Cloud the SMO can use for being notified when certain changes in the Alarm List occur. The Alarm Subscription List can contain Alarm Subscription Descriptions.

##### 3.3.4.4.2 Resource definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/O2ims_infrastructureMonitoring/{apiMajorVersion}/alarmSubscriptions This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in Table 3.3.4.4.2-1. Name Data type Definition apiRoot String See clause 3.1.2 apiMajorVersion String See clause 3.1.2

##### 3.3.4.4.3 Resource methods
3.3.4.4.3.1 POST The POST operation is used to create an alarm subscription. This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in Table 3.3.4.4.3.1-1. Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability n/a This method shall support the request data structures, the response data structures, and response codes specified in Data type Cardinality Description Request AlarmSubscriptionInfo 1 The AlarmSubscriptionInfo instance to be created. Note: The body supplied SubscriptionId is ignored and assigned by the O-Cloud. Response Data type Cardinality Description Codes AlarmSubscriptionInfo 1 201 Shall be returned when information about a Created AlarmSubscriptionInfo instance has been created successfully. Response The response body shall contain a representation of body the AlarmSubscriptionInfo instance, as defined in clause 3.3.6.2.3. ProblemDetails See 4xx/5xx In addition to the response codes defined above, any clause 3.1. common error response code as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] may be returned. 3.3.4.4.3.2 GET The GET operation is used to retrieve the list of alarm subscriptions. This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in Table 3.3.4.4.3.2-1. Name Cardinality Description filter 0..1 Attribute-based filtering expression according to clause 5.2 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. The O-Cloud shall support receiving this parameter as part of the URI query string. The API consumer may supply this parameter. All attribute names that appear in the AlarmSubscriptionInfo and in data types referenced from it shall be supported by the O-Cloud in the filter expression. all_fields 0..1 Include all complex attributes in the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud shall support this parameter. fields 0..1 Complex attributes to be included into the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud should support this parameter. exclude_fields 0..1 Complex attributes to be excluded from the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud should support this parameter. exclude_default 0..1 Indicates to exclude the following complex attributes from the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud shall support this parameter. The following attributes shall be excluded from the list of AlarmSubscriptionInfo in the response body if this parameter is provided, or none of the parameters "all_fields", "fields", "exclude_fields", "exclude_default" are provided:
- TBD
nextpage_opaque 0..1 Marker to obtain the next page of a paged response. Shall be supported _marker by the O-Cloud if the O-Cloud supports alternative 2 (paging) according to clause 5.4.2.1 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for this resource. This method shall support the request data structures, the response data structures, and response codes specified in Request Data type Cardinality Description body n/a Response Data type Cardinality Description Codes AlarmSubscriptionInfo 0..N 200 OK Shall be returned when information about zero or more AlarmSubscriptionInfo instances has been queried successfully. The response body shall contain in an array the representations of zero or more AlarmSubscriptionInfo instances, as defined in clause 3.3.6.2.3. If the "filter" URI parameter or one of the "all_fields", "fields" (if supported), "exclude_fields" (if supported) or "exclude_default" URI parameters was supplied in the request, the data in the response body shall have been transformed according to the rules specified in clauses 5.2.2 and 5.3.2 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22], respectively. If the O-Cloud supports alternative 2 (paging) according to clause 5.4.2.1 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for this resource, inclusion of the Link HTTP Response header in this response shall follow the provisions in body clause 5.4.2.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. ProblemDetails 1 400 Bad Shall be returned upon the following error: Invalid Request attribute-based filtering expression. The response body shall contain a ProblemDetails structure, in which the "detail" attribute should convey more information about the error. ProblemDetails 1 400 Bad Shall be returned upon the following error: Invalid Request attribute selector. The response body shall contain a ProblemDetails structure, in which the "detail" attribute should convey more information about the error. ProblemDetails 1 400 Bad Shall be returned upon the following error: Response Request too big. If the O-Cloud supports alternative 1 (error) according to clause 5.4.2.1 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for this resource, this error response shall follow the provisions in clause 5.4.2.2 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. ProblemDetails See 4xx/5xx In addition to the response codes defined above, any clause 3.1. common error response code as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] may be returned. 3.3.4.4.3.3 PUT This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.3.4.4.3.4 PATCH This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.3.4.4.3.5 DELETE This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22].

#### 3.3.4.5 REST resource: Alarm Subscription Description

##### 3.3.4.5.1 Description
The Alarm Subscription Description represents the description of a subscription to alarm change events in the O-Cloud.

##### 3.3.4.5.2 Resource definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/O2ims_infrastructureMonitoring/{apiMajorVersion}/alarmSubscriptions/{alarmSubscriptionId} This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in Table 3.3.4.5.2-1. Name Data type Definition apiRoot String See clause 3.1.2 apiMajorVersion String See clause 3.1.2 alarmSubscriptionId Identifier The identifier of the Alarm Subscription Description resource. This identifier can be retrieved from the alarmSubscriptionId attribute in the payload body of the response to a GET request getting the list of "AlarmSubscriptionInfo" resources.

##### 3.3.4.5.3 Resource methods
3.3.4.5.3.1 POST This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.3.4.5.3.2 GET The GET operation is used to retrieve the alarm subscription description of a single alarm subscription. This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in Table 3.3.4.5.3.2-1. Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability n/a This method shall support the request data structures, the response data structures, and response codes specified in Request Data type Cardinality Description body n/a Response Data type Cardinality Description Codes AlarmSubscriptionInfo 1 200 OK Shall be returned when information about a AlarmSubscriptionInfo instance has been queried successfully. Response The response body shall contain a representation of body the AlarmSubscriptionInfo instance, as defined in clause 3.3.6.2.3. ProblemDetails See 4xx/5xx In addition to the response codes defined above, any clause 3.1. common error response code as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] may be returned. 3.3.4.5.3.3 PUT This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.3.4.5.3.4 PATCH This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.3.4.5.3.5 DELETE The DELETE operation is used to delete the alarm subscription description of a single alarm subscription. This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in Table 3.3.4.5.3.5-1. Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability n/a This method shall support the request data structures, the response data structures, and response codes specified in Request Data type Cardinality Description body n/a Response Data type Cardinality Description Codes n/a 1 204 (no Shall be returned when the individual instance of Alarm Response content) Subscription has been deleted successfully. The body response body shall be empty. ProblemDetails See 4xx/5xx In addition to the response codes defined above, any clause 3.1. common error response code as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] may be returned.

#### 3.3.4.6 REST resource: Alarm Service Configuration

##### 3.3.4.6.1 Description
The Alarm Service Configuration represents the ability to get and set the configurable values which govern the behaviour of the alarm service.

##### 3.3.4.6.2 Resource definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/O2ims_infrastructureMonitoring/{apiMajorVersion}/alarmServiceConfiguration This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in Table 3.3.4.6.2-1. Name Data type Definition apiRoot String See clause 3.1.2 apiMajorVersion String See clause 3.1.2

##### 3.3.4.6.3 Resource methods
3.3.4.6.3.1 POST This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] . 3.3.4.6.3.2 GET The GET operation is used to retrieve the current alarm service configuration. This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in Table 3.3.4.6.3.2-1. Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability n/a This method shall support the request data structures, the response data structures, and response codes specified in Request Data type Cardinality Description body n/a Response Data type Cardinality Description Codes AlarmServiceConfigurat 1 200 OK Shall be returned when information about an ion AlarmServiceConfiguration instance has been queried successfully. Response The response body shall contain a representation of body the AlarmServiceConfiguration instance, as defined in clause 3.3.6.2.5. ProblemDetails See 4xx/5xx In addition to the response codes defined above, any clause 3.1. common error response code as defined in ETSI GS

# 5 NFV-SOL 013 [22], clause 6.4 may be returned.
3.3.4.6.3.3 PUT The PUT method is used to update all fields of the Alarm Service Configuration. It operates as a “replace” or “overwrite” semantic model.

# A 200 OK response with the updated copy of the final object content after the update has been performed is the acceptable response for objects with minimal complexity.
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in Table 3.3.4.6.3.3-1. Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability n/a This method shall support the request data structures, the response data structures, and response codes specified in Data type Cardinality Description Request AlarmServiceConfigurat 1 The parameter for the Alarm Service Configuration, as defined in body ion clause 3.3.6.2.5. Response Data type Cardinality Description Codes AlarmServiceConfigurat 1 200 OK Shall be returned when the request has been accepted ion and completed. The response body shall contain attribute modifications for the alarm service configuration (see clause 3.3.6.2.5). ProblemDetails 0..1 412 Shall be returned upon the following error: A Preconditio precondition given in an HTTP request header is not Response n failed fulfilled. body Typically, this is due to an ETag mismatch, indicating that the resource was modified by another entity prior to this request. The response body should contain a ProblemDetails structure, in which the "detail" attribute should convey more information about the error. ProblemDetails See 4xx/5xx In addition to the response codes defined above, any clause 3.1. common error response code as defined in ETSI GS

# 5 NFV-SOL 013 [22], clause 6.4 may be returned.
3.3.4.6.3.4 PATCH The PATCH method is used to modify individual fields of the Alarm Service Configuration.

# A PATCH request shall enable only those fields of the alarm service configuration that are contained in the request to be modified. Attributes not contained in the request will remain unmodified. This is sometimes referred to as a partial
update. This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in Table 3.3.4.6.3.4-1. Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability n/a This method shall support the request data structures, the response data structures, and response codes specified in Data type Cardinality Description AlarmServiceConfigurat 1 The parameter for the Alarm Service Configuration, as defined in Request ion clause 3.3.6.2.5. body The Content-Type header shall be set to "application/merge- patch+json" according to IETF RFC 7396 [29]. Response Data type Cardinality Description Codes AlarmServiceConfigurat 1 200 OK Shall be returned when the request has been accepted ion and completed. The response body shall contain attribute modifications for the alarm service configuration (see clause 3.3.6.2.5). ProblemDetails 0..1 412 Shall be returned upon the following error: A Preconditio precondition given in an HTTP request header is not Response n failed fulfilled. body Typically, this is due to an ETag mismatch, indicating that the resource was modified by another entity. The response body should contain a ProblemDetails structure, in which the "detail" attribute should convey more information about the error. ProblemDetails See 4xx/5xx In addition to the response codes defined above, any clause 3.1. common error response code as defined in ETSI GS

# 5 NFV-SOL 013 [22], clause 6.4 may be returned.
3.3.4.6.3.5 DELETE This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22], clause 6.4.

#### 3.3.4.7 REST resource: Purge Alarms task

##### 3.3.4.7.1 Description
This task resource represents the "Purge Alarms" operation. The API consumer can use this resource to request purging one or multiple Alarms Event Records in the Alarms List.

##### 3.3.4.7.2 Resource definition
The resource URI is: {apiRoot}/O2ims_infrastructureMonitoring/{apiMajorVersion}/alarms/purge This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in table 3.3.4.7.2-1. Name Data type Definition apiRoot string See clause 3.1.2 apiMajorVersion string See clause 3.3.2

##### 3.3.4.7.3 Resource Methods
3.3.4.7.3.1 POST The POST operation is used to purge Alarm Event Record(s) contained in the alarm list. The request body input parameters can identify the specific Alarm Event Record(s) to be purged. For additional information about the purge service operation, refer to the service model in clause 2.1.3.1.2.5. This method shall follow the provisions specified in table 3.3.4.7.3.1-1 for URI query parameters. Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability n/a This method shall support the request data structures, the response data structures, and response codes specified in table 3.3.4.7.3.1-2. Data type Cardinality Description Request PurgeRequest 1 This identifies the specific AlarmEventRecord(s) to be purged body based on attributes of the AlarmEventRecord Response Data type Cardinality Description Codes n/a 202 Shall be returned when the request has been accepted Accepted for processing. The response body shall be empty. The HTTP response shall include a "Location" HTTP header that contains the URI of the newly created "Task Operation Occurrence" resource corresponding to the purge operation. ProblemDetails 1 409 Conflict Shall be returned upon the following error: The operation cannot be executed currently, due to a Response conflict with the state of the resource. body Typically, this is due to the fact that another task operation is ongoing on the affected resources. The response body shall contain a ProblemDetails structure, in which the "detail" attribute shall convey more information about the error. ProblemDetails See 4xx/5xx In addition to the response codes defined above, any clause 3.1. common error response code as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] may be returned. 3.3.4.7.3.2 GET This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.3.4.7.3.3 PUT This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.3.4.7.3.4 PATCH This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.3.4.7.3.5 DELETE This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22].

#### 3.3.4.8 REST resource: Task Operation List

##### 3.3.4.8.1 Description
This resource represents the list of task operation occurrences triggered though the respective API. The API consumer can use this resource to query status information about multiple task operation occurrences.

##### 3.3.4.8.2 Resource definition
The resource URI is: {apiRoot}/O2ims_infrastructureMonitoring/{apiMajorVersion}/taskOperations This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in table 3.3.4.8.2-1. Name Data type Definition apiRoot string See clause 3.1.2 apiMajorVersion string See clause 3.1.2

##### 3.3.4.8.3 Resource methods
3.3.4.8.3.1 POST This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.3.4.8.3.2 GET The API consumer can use this method to query status information about multiple task operation occurrences. This method shall follow the provisions specified in Table 3.3.4.8.3.2-1 for URI query parameters. Name Cardinality Description filter 0..1 Attribute-based filtering expression according to clause 5.2 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. The O-Cloud shall support receiving this parameter as part of the URI query string. The API consumer may supply this parameter. All attribute names that appear in the TaskOperationInfo and in data types referenced from it shall be supported by the O-Cloud in the filter expression. all_fields 0..1 Include all complex attributes in the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud shall support this parameter. fields 0..1 Complex attributes to be included into the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud should support this parameter. exclude_fields 0..1 Complex attributes to be excluded from the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud should support this parameter. exclude_default 0..1 Indicates to exclude the following complex attributes from the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud shall support this parameter. The following attributes shall be excluded from the list of XYZ in the response body if this parameter is provided, or none of the parameters "all_fields", "fields", "exclude_fields", "exclude_default" are provided.
- TBD
nextpage_opaque 0..1 Marker to obtain the next page of a paged response. Shall be supported _marker by the O-Cloud if the O-Cloud supports alternative 2 (paging) according to clause 5.4.2.1 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [2]] for this resource. This method shall support the request data structures, the response data structures, and response codes specified in table 3.3.4.8.3.2-2. Request Data type Cardinality Description body n/a Response Data type Cardinality Description Codes TaskOperationInfo 0..N 200 OK Shall be returned when information about zero or more task operation occurrences has been queried successfully. The response body shall contain in an array the representations of zero or more TaskOperationInfo instances, as defined in clause 3.3.6.2.7. If the "filter" URI parameter or one of the "all_fields", "fields" (if supported), "exclude_fields" (if supported) or "exclude_default" URI parameters was supplied in the request, the data in the response body shall have been transformed according to the rules specified in clauses 5.2.2 and 5.3.2 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22], respectively. If the O-Cloud supports alternative 2 (paging) according to clause 5.4.2.1 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [2]] for this resource, inclusion of the Link HTTP Response header in this response shall follow the provisions in body clause 5.4.2.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. ProblemDetails 1 400 Bad Shall be returned upon the following error: Invalid Request attribute-based filtering expression. The response body shall contain a ProblemDetails structure, in which the "detail" attribute should convey more information about the error. ProblemDetails 1 400 Bad Shall be returned upon the following error: Invalid Request attribute selector. The response body shall contain a ProblemDetails structure, in which the "detail" attribute should convey more information about the error. ProblemDetails 1 400 Bad Shall be returned upon the following error: Response Request too big. If the O-Cloud supports alternative 1 (error) according to clause 5.4.2.1 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [2]] for this resource, this error response shall follow the provisions in clause 5.4.2.2 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [2]. ProblemDetails See 4xx/5xx In addition to the response codes defined above, any clause 3.1.5 common error response code as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] may be returned. 3.3.4.8.3.3 PUT This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.3.4.8.3.4 PATCH This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.3.4.8.3.5 DELETE This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22].

#### 3.3.4.9 REST resource: Task Operation Occurrence

##### 3.3.4.9.1 Description
This resource represents a task operation resource. The API can use this resource to read status information about an individual task operation occurrence. The O-Cloud may remove an individual task operation occurrence resource some time after it has reached one of the terminal states (i.e., the "operationState" attribute of its representation is equal to one of the values "COMPLETED", "FAILED" or "ROLLED_BACK"). The minimum time how long the O-Cloud waits before deleting such a resource is not defined by the present document version.

##### 3.3.4.9.2 Resource definition
The resource URI is: {apiRoot}/O2ims_infrastructureMonitoring/{apiMajorVersion}/taskOperations/{operationOccurrenceId} This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in Table 3.3.4.9.2-1. Name Data type Definition apiRoot string See clause 3.1.2 apiMajorVersion string See clause 3.3.2 operationOccurrenceId Identifier Identifier of a task operation occurrence. See note.
> NOTE: This identifier can be retrieved from the resource referenced by the "Location HTTP" header in the response to
a POST request triggering a task operation.

##### 3.3.4.9.3 Resource methods
3.3.4.9.3.1 POST This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.3.4.9.3.2 GET The API consumer can use this method to retrieve status information about a task operation occurrence by reading a "Task Operation Occurrence" resource. This method shall follow the provisions specified in table 3.3.4.9.3.2-1 for URI query parameters. Name Cardinality Description none supported This method shall support the request data structures, the response data structures, and response codes specified in table 3.3.4.9.3.2-2. Request Data type Cardinality Description body n/a Response Data type Cardinality Description Codes TaskOperationInfo 1 200 OK Shall be returned when information about an individual task operation occurrence has been read successfully. Response body The response body shall contain status information about a task operation occurrence (see clause 3.3.6.2.7). ProblemDetails See 4xx/5xx In addition to the response codes defined above, any clause 3.1.5 common error response code as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] may be returned. 3.3.4.9.3.3 PUT This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.3.4.9.3.4 PATCH This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.3.4.9.3.5 DELETE This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22].

### 3.3.5 Notifications

#### 3.3.5.1 General
Notifications shall comply to the Subscribe/Notify pattern described in clause 5.9 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 015 [25]. HTTP Notification Callback URI Description method Alarm Change Notification Alarm Subscription.callback POST Notify subscribers when objects in the O2ims Alarm List have changed.

##### 3.3.5.1.1 Alarm Change Notification Description
The Alarm Change Notification is used by the O-Cloud Infrastructure Monitoring Service to report changes to the O2ims alarm List to an O2ims consumer that has subscribed to such notifications.

##### 3.3.5.1.2 Target URI
The Alarm Subscription.Callback URI “{AlarmEventNotification}” shall be used with the callback URI variables define in table 3.3.5.1.2-1. Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description globalCloudId Identifier M 1 The global cloud identifier assigned by the SMO. consumerSubscriptionId String M 0..1 The value optionally provided by the consumer in the subscription. notificationEventType Integer M 1 One of the following values:
- 0 for “NEW”
- 1 for “CHANGE”
- 2 for “CLEAR”
- 3 for "ACKNOWLEDGE"
objectRef String M 0..1 The URL to the AlarmEventRecord object. alarmEventRecordId Identifier M 1 The identifier for the AlarmEventRecord Object. objectTypeId Identifier M 1 A reference to the type of object which caused the alarm. objectId Identifier M 1 A reference to the object instance which caused the alarm. objectClass String M 1 The fully qualified name of the class of the object being referenced by the objectId attribute (e.g., “oran.o2ims.cluster.ClusterResource”). alarmDefinitionId Identifier M 1 A reference to the Alarm Definition record in the Alarm Dictionary associated with the referenced Object Type. probableCauseId Identifier M 1 A reference to the ProbableCause of the Alarm. alarmRaisedTime DateTime M 1 Date/Time stamp value when the AlarmEventRecord has been created. alarmChangedTime DateTime M 1 Date/Time stamp value when any value of the AlarmEventRecord has been modified. alarmAcknowledgeTime DateTime M 1 Date/Time stamp value when the alarm condition is acknowledged. alarmAcknowledged Boolean M 1 Boolean value indicating of a management system has acknowledged the alarm. perceivedSeverity integer M 1 One of the following values:
- 0 for “CRITICAL”
- 1 for “MAJOR”
- 2 for “MINOR”
- 3 for "WARNING"
- 4 for "INDETERMINATE"
- 5 for "CLEARED"
extensions KeyValue M 0..N Unspecified (not standardized) properties (keys) which are tailored by the vendor or operator to extend the information provided about the O-Cloud Alarm.

### 3.3.6 Data model

#### 3.3.6.1 REST resource data types
This clause specifies the data types to be used in resource representations and notifications supported by the present API. Data type Clause defined Description Applicability AlarmEventRecord 3.2.6.2.2 This data type represents an instance of an Alarm detected by the O-Cloud Infrastructure. AlarmSubscriptionInfo 3.2.6.2.3 This data type represents an instance of a subscription to O2ims Alarm change events. AlarmServiceConfiguration 3.3.6.2.5 This type represents information about the Alarm Service Configuration. TaskOperationInfo 3.3.6.2.7 This type represents a task operation occurrence.

#### 3.3.6.2 Structured data types

##### 3.3.6.2.1 Introduction
This clause defines the data structures to be used in resource representations.

##### 3.3.6.2.2 Type: AlarmEventRecord
This type represents information about an Alarm in the O-Cloud Infrastructure. It shall comply with the provisions defined in table 3.3.6.2.2-1. Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description alarmEventRecordId Identifier M 1 The identifier for the AlarmEventRecord Object. objectTypeId Identifier M 1 A reference to the type of resource which caused the alarm. objectId Identifier M 1 A reference to the resource instance which caused the alarm. objectClass String M 1 The fully qualified name of the object being referenced by the objectId attribute (e.g., “oran.o2ims.cluster.ClusterResource”). alarmDefinitionId Identifier M 1 A reference to the Alarm Definition record in the Alarm Dictionary associated with the referenced Object Type. probableCauseId Identifier M 1 A reference to the ProbableCause of the Alarm. alarmRaisedTime DateTime M 1 Date/Time stamp value when the AlarmEventRecord has been created. alarmChangedTime DateTime M 0..1 Date/Time stamp value when any value of the AlarmEventRecord has been modified.It shall be present if the alarm record has been modified. alarmAcknowledgeTi DateTime M 0..1 Date/Time stamp value when the alarm condition is me acknowledged. It shall be present if the alarm record has been acknowledged. alarmAcknowledged Boolean M 1 Boolean value indicating of a management system has acknowledged the alarm. “True” if the alarm has been acknowledged, and “False” otherwise. alarmClearedTime DateTime M 0..1 Date/Time stamp value indicating when the alarm was cleared. It shal be present if the alarm record has been cleared. perceivedSeverity integer M 1 One of the following values:
- 0 for “CRITICAL”
- 1 for “MAJOR”
- 2 for “MINOR”
- 3 for "WARNING"
- 4 for "INDETERMINATE"
for "CLEARED" extensions KeyValue M 0..N Unspecified (not standardized) properties (keys) which are tailored by the vendor or operator to extend the information provided about the O-Cloud Alarm.

##### 3.3.6.2.3 Type: AlarmSubscriptionInfo
This type represents information about a Subscription for Alarms in the O-Cloud. It shall comply with the provisions defined in table 3.3.6.2.3-1. Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description alarmSubscriptionId Identifier M 1 Identifier for the Alarm Subscription. This identifier is allocated by the O-Cloud. consumerSubscriptionId String O 0..1 Identifier for the consumer of events sent due to the Subscription. filter String O 0..1 Criteria for events which do not need to be reported or will be filtered by the subscription notification service. Therefore, if a filter is not provided then all events are reported. callback Uri M 1 The fully qualified URI to a consumer procedure which can process a Post of the AlarmEventNotification.

##### 3.3.6.2.4 Type: AlarmEventRecordModifications
This type represents modifications for an individual alarm record, i.e., modification to a resource representation based on the "AlarmEventRecord" data type. The attributes of "AlarmEventRecord" that can be modified according to the provision in clause 3.3.6.2.2 are included in the "AlarmEventRecordModifications" data type. The "AlarmEventRecordModifications" data type shall comply with the provisions defined in table 3.3.6.2.4-1. Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description alarmAcknowledged Boolean M 0..1 New value of the "alarmAcknowledged" attribute in "AlarmEventRecord". See note. perceivedSeverity Integer M 0..1 New value for the "perceivedSeverity" attribute in "AlarmEventRecord" to indicate that the alarm record is requested to be cleared. Only the value "5" for "CLEARED" is permitted in a request message content. See note.
> NOTE: Either "alarmAcknowledged" or "perceivedSeverity" shall be included in a request message content, but not both.

##### 3.3.6.2.5 Type: AlarmServiceConfiguration
This type represents request information about the Alarm Service Configuration which includes attributes to control the retention of Alarms in the O-Cloud Alarm List. It shall comply with the provisions defined in table 3.3.6.2.5-1. Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description retentionPeriod Integer M 1 Number of days for alarm history to be retained. See Note. extensions KeyValuePairs M 0..N List of metadata key-value pairs used to associate meaningful metadata to the related alarm service.
> NOTE: this value has a minimum limit such that it can’t be set to a value lower than the limit.

##### 3.3.6.2.6 Type: PurgeRequest
This data type is used in the Alarm Purge operation. The PurgeRequest data type is used to specify the Alarm Record IDs and a time window for alarms to be purged through the API. It shall comply with the provisions defined in table 3.3.6.2.6-1. See clause 3.3.4.7.3 for more details on the Alarm Purge Operation. Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description alarmRecordId String M 0..N A list of AlarmRecord ID (strings) if provided would be the alarm records that are to be purged. See note. purgeConditions Structure (inline) M 0..1 Provides a time window (begin time, end time) for inactive and acknowledged alarms to be purged within. See note. >startWindowTime DateTime M 0..1 Start time of the timing window of Alarms to be purged. Time refers to the "alarmClearedTime" in the AlarmEventRecord. If attribute is not provided, all cleared alarms older than the "endWindowTime" are considered for the purge request. >endWindowTime DateTime M 1 End time of the timing windows of Alarms to be purged. Time refers to the "alarmClearedTime" in the AlarmEventRecord. If only this attribute is provided in the purgeConditions, all cleared alarms older than this time are considered for the purge request.
> NOTE: At least either alarmRecordId or purgeCondition shall be provided in a request. If more than one attribute is
provided, the API producer shall determine the intersection between the affected alarm event records and the purge conditions. For instance, if a list of alarm records is provided, as well as additional purge conditions, then those purge conditions are only to be applied to the list of alarm records provided.

##### 3.3.6.2.7 Type: TaskOperationInfo
This type represents a task operation occurrence. It shall comply with the provisions defined in table 3.2.6.2.7-1. Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Id Identifier M 1 Identifier of this task operation occurrence. operationState Enum (inlined) M 1 The state of the alarm management operation. Permitted values:
- PROCESSING: the operation is currently in execution.
- COMPLETED: the operation has completed
successfully.
- FAILED: the operation has failed.
- ROLLED_BACK: the operation has rolled back.
stateEnteredTime DateTime M 1 Date-time when the current state has been entered. startTime DateTime M 1 Date-time of the start of the operation. operation Enum (inlined) M 1 Type of the operation represented by this task operation occurrence. Permitted values:
- PURGE: represents the "purge alarms" alarm
management operation. operationParams Object M 0..1 Input parameters of the triggered operation. This attribute shall be formatted according to the request data type of the related alarms management operation. The following mapping between operation attribute and the data type of this attribute shall apply:
- PURGE: PurgeRequest
This attribute shall be present if this data type is returned in a response to reading an individual resource and may be present according to the chosen attribute selector parameter if this data type is returned in a response to a query of a container resource. error ProblemDetails M 0..1 If "operationState" is "FAILED", this attribute shall be present and contain error information, unless it has been requested to be excluded via an attribute selector.

#### 3.3.6.3 Simple data types and enumerations

##### 3.3.6.3.1 Introduction
This clause defines simple data types and enumerations that can be referenced from data structures defined in the previous clauses. The simple data types defined in a request body, response body, or a structured type are defined in ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] or this clause of the specification.

##### 3.3.6.3.2 Simple data types
The simple data types defined in table 3.3.6.3.2-1 shall be supported. Type Name Type Definition Description n/a

### 3.3.7 Error handling

#### 3.3.7.1 General
For the O2ims_InfrastructureMonitoring Service API, HTTP error responses shall be supported as specified in clause 3.1.5. In addition, the requirements in the following clauses are applicable for the O2ims_InfrastructureMonitoring Service API.

#### 3.3.7.2 Protocol errors
No specific protocol errors for the O2ims_InfrastructureMonitoring Service API are specified.

#### 3.3.7.3 Application errors
No specific application errors for the O2ims_InfrastructureMonitoring Service API are specified

### 3.3.8 Security
No specific security procedures for the O2ims_InfrastructureMonitoring Service API are specified beyond those in clause 3.1.7.

## 3.4 O2ims_InfrastructureProvisioning Service API

### 3.4.1 Description
This API enables the SMO to invoke O2ims_InfrastructureProvisioning Service towards the O-Cloud. The operations defined for O2ims_InfrastructureProvisioning Service through this API are- create, read, update, or delete. Elements provisioned through a ProvisioningRequest include but are not limited to the following:
- O-Cloud NodeCluster
- O-Cloud InfrastructureResource(s)

### 3.4.2 API Version
For the O2ims_InfrastructureProvisioning Service API version as specified in the present document, the MAJOR version field shall be 1, the MINOR version field shall be 1, and the PATCH version field shall be 0. capabilities added/removed across versions. Version Description

### 1.0.0 Initial API Supporting:
ProvisioningRequest List ProvisioningRequest Description

### 1.1.0 Modified data types:
ProvisioningRequestInfo

### 3.4.3 REST resources structure and methods
All resource URIs of the API shall use the base URI specification defined in clause 3.1.2. The string "O2ims_infrastructureProvisioning" shall be used to represent {apiName}. All resource URIs in the clauses below are defined relative to the formed base URI (i.e., {apiRoot}/O2ims_infrastructureProvisioning/{apiVersion}). When ambiguity is possible, the term REST resource is used to make the distinction between the term resource as understood within the context of REST API from the term resource as understood within the context of O-RAN. The O-Cloud shall support responding to requests for all HTTP methods on the resources in table 3.4.3-1 that are marked as "M" (mandatory) in the "Cat" column. The O-Cloud shall also support the "API versions" resources as specified in clause 3.1.8. HTTP Cat Resource name Resource URI Description method ProvisioningRequest /provisioningRequests GET M To get a list of List ProvisioningRequests POST M To create an individual ProvisioningRequest ProvisioningRequest /provisioningRequests/{provisioningRequestId} GET M To get the description of an Description individual ProvisioningRequest PUT M To replace/update an individual ProvisioningRequest DELETE M To delete an individual ProvisioningRequest

### 3.4.4 REST resources

#### 3.4.4.1 Introduction
There are no preconditions or postconditions for a successful execution of each of the O2ims_InfrastructureProvisioning Service API triggered by an operation.

#### 3.4.4.2 REST resource: ProvisioningRequest List

##### 3.4.4.2.1 Description
This resource represents the list of ProvisioningRequests that the O-Cloud has created based on request from the SMO as declarative target to provision O-Cloud Node Cluster and/or O-Cloud Infrastructure Resource(s). The API consumer can use this resource to create a new ProvisioningRequest and to query the list of created ProvisioningRequests.

##### 3.4.4.2.2 Resource definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}O2ims_infrastructureProvisioning/{apiMajorVersion}/provisioningRequests This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in Table 3.4.4.2.2-1. Name Data type Definition apiRoot String See clause 3.1.2 apiMajorVersion String See clause 3.1.2

##### 3.4.4.2.3 Resource methods
3.4.4.2.3.1 POST The POST operation is used to create an individual ProvisioningRequest. As a result of successfully executing this method, a new ProvisioningRequest instance resource as defined in clause 3.4.6.2.3 shall have been created, and the value of the "status" attribute in the representation of the ProvisioningRequest instance shall reflect the current phase in the provisioning request when the response is provided.
> NOTE: The present document version does not specify the protocol and data model mechanisms to address the
handling of ProvisioningRequests in a "multi-tenancy" scenario. This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in Table 3.4.4.2.3.1-1. Name Cardinality Description n/a This method shall support the request data structures, the response data structures, and response codes specified in Data type Cardinality Description Request ProvisioningRequestData 1 Parameters for the ProvisioningRequest instance to be created as body defined in clause 3.4.6.2.2. Response Data type Cardinality Description Codes ProvisioningRequestInfo 1 201 Shall be returned when information about a Created ProvisioningRequest instance has been created successfully. The response body shall contain a representation of the created ProvisioningRequestInfo instance, as defined in clause 3.4.6.2.3. The HTTP response shall include a "Location" HTTP header that contains the resource URI of the newly- created ProvisioningRequest. ProblemDetails 1 409 Shall be returned upon the following error: the Response Conflict operation cannot be executed due to a conflict with body the state of the resource. Typically, this is due to the fact that the consumer has requested to create a ProvisioningRequest instance with same "provisioningRequestId" as an already existing other ProvisioningRequest instance. The response body shall contain a ProblemDetails structure, in which the "detail" attribute should convey more information about the error. ProblemDetails See 4xx/5xx In addition to the response codes defined above, any clause 3.1. common error response code as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] may be returned. 3.4.4.2.3.2 GET The GET method is used to retrieve the list of ProvisioningRequests. This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in Table 3.4.4.2.3.2-1. Name Cardinality Description filter 0..1 Attribute-based filtering expression according to clause 5.2 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] . The O-Cloud shall support receiving this parameter as part of the URI query string. The API consumer may supply this parameter. All attribute names that appear in the ProvisioningRequestInfo and in data types referenced from it shall be supported by the O-Cloud in the filter expression. all_fields 0..1 Include all complex attributes in the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud shall support this parameter. fields 0..1 Complex attributes to be included into the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud should support this parameter. exclude_fields 0..1 Complex attributes to be excluded from the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud should support this parameter. exclude_default 0..1 Indicates to exclude the following complex attributes from the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud shall support this parameter. The following attributes shall be excluded from the list of ProvisioningRequestInfo in the response body if this parameter is provided, or none of the parameters "all_fields", "fields", "exclude_fields", "exclude_default" are provided:
- TBD
nextpage_opaque 0..1 Marker to obtain the next page of a paged response. Shall be supported _marker by the O-Cloud if the O-Cloud supports alternative 2 (paging) according to clause 5.4.2.1 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for this resource. This method shall support the request data structures, the response data structures, and response codes specified in Request Data type Cardinality Description body n/a Response Data type Cardinality Description Codes ProvisioningRequestInf 0..N 200 OK Shall be returned when information about zero or more o ProvisioningRequestInfo instances has been queried successfully. The response body shall contain in an array the representations of zero or more ProvisioningRequestInfo instances, as defined in clause 3.4.6.2.3. If the "filter" URI parameter or one of the "all_fields", "fields" (if supported), "exclude_fields" (if supported) or "exclude_default" URI parameters was supplied in the request, the data in the response body shall have been transformed according to the rules specified in clauses 5.2.2 and 5.3.2 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] , respectively. If the O-Cloud supports alternative 2 (paging) according to clause 5.4.2.1 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for this resource, inclusion of the Link HTTP Response header in this response shall follow the provisions in body clause 5.4.2.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] . ProblemDetails 1 400 Bad Shall be returned upon the following error: Invalid Request attribute-based filtering expression. The response body shall contain a ProblemDetails structure, in which the "detail" attribute should convey more information about the error. ProblemDetails 1 400 Bad Shall be returned upon the following error: Invalid Request attribute selector. The response body shall contain a ProblemDetails structure, in which the "detail" attribute should convey more information about the error. ProblemDetails 1 400 Bad Shall be returned upon the following error: Response Request too big. If the O-Cloud supports alternative 1 (error) according to clause 5.4.2.1 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for this resource, this error response shall follow the provisions in clause 5.4.2.2 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] . ProblemDetails See 4xx/5xx In addition to the response codes defined above, any clause 3.1. common error response code as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] may be returned. 3.4.4.2.3.3 PUT This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] . 3.4.4.2.3.4 PATCH This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] . 3.4.4.2.3.5 DELETE This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] .

#### 3.4.4.3 REST resource: ProvisioningRequest Description

##### 3.4.4.3.1 Description
The ProvisioningRequest Description represents an individual ProvisioningRequest that exists in the O-Cloud.

##### 3.4.4.3.2 Resource definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}O2ims_infrastructureProvisioning/{apiMajorVersion}/provisioningRequests/{provisioningR equestId} This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in Table 3.4.4.3.2-1. Name Data type Definition apiRoot String See clause 3.1.2 apiMajorVersion String See clause 3.1.2 provisioningRequestId Identifier The identifier of the ProvisioningRequest resource.
> NOTE: This identifier can be retrieved from the provisioningRequestId attribute in the payload body of the
response to a GET request getting the list of "ProvisioningRequestInfo" resources. This identifier can be also retrieved from the resource referenced by the "Location" HTTP header in the response to a POST request creating a new ProvisioningRequest resource.

##### 3.4.4.3.3 Resource methods
3.4.4.3.3.1 POST This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] . 3.4.4.3.3.2 GET The GET method is used to retrieve the description of a single ProvisioningRequest. This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in Table 3.4.4.3.3.2-1. Name Cardinality Description n/a This method shall support the request data structures, the response data structures, and response codes specified in Request Data type Cardinality Description body n/a Response Data type Cardinality Description Codes ProvisioningRequestInf 1 200 OK Shall be returned when information about a o ProvisioningRequestInfo instance has been queried successfully. Response The response body shall contain a representation of body the ProvisioningRequestInfo instance, as defined in clause 3.4.6.2.3. ProblemDetails See 4xx/5xx In addition to the response codes defined above, any clause 3.1. common error response code as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] may be returned. 3.4.4.3.3.3 PUT The PUT method is used to update fields of the ProvisioningRequest object. It operates as a “replace” or “overwrite” semantic model. All fields that are input to the ProvisioningRequest, i.e., as indicated by the data type "provisioningRequestData", can be updated, with the exception of the "provisioningRequestId". In case a different value of "provisioningRequestId" is indicated in the request payload compared to the "provisioningRequestId" that identifies the created ProvisioningRequest, the API producer shall return an appropriate error response. This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in Table 3.4.4.3.3.3-1. Name Cardinality Description n/a This method shall support the request data structures, the response data structures, and response codes specified in Data type Cardinality Description Request ProvisioningRequestDa 1 The parameters for the ProvisioningRequest, as defined in clause body ta 3.4.6.2.2. Response Data type Cardinality Description Codes ProvisioningRequestInf 1 200 OK Shall be returned when the request has been o accepted. The response body shall contain a representation of the ProvisioningRequestInfo instance, as defined in clause 3.4.6.2.3. ProblemDetails 1 422 Shall be returned upon the following error: the content Unprocess type of the message content is supported, and the able message content of the request contains syntactically Content correct data, but the data cannot be processed. Response body In particular, this is due to the fact that the consumer has requested to modify values of the ProvisioningRequest instance that are not modifiable due to specific API producer logic such as trying to modify the value of the "provisoningRequestId". The response body shall contain a ProblemDetails structure, in which the "detail" attribute should convey more information about the error. ProblemDetails See 4xx/5xx In addition to the response codes defined above, any clause 3.1. common error response code as defined in ETSI GS

# 5 NFV-SOL 013 [22], clause 6.4 may be returned.
3.4.4.3.3.4 PATCH This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] . 3.4.4.3.3.5 DELETE The DELETE method is used to perform delete operation on a single ProvisioningRequest. On receiving a DELETE request, the ProvisioningRequest instance transitions to 'DELETING' phase and in case resources had been provisioned, the O-Cloud starts performing the deprovision of corresponding O-Cloud NodeCluster and/or other Infrastructure Resources represented by the ProvisioningRequest instance being deleted. During this period the consumer can poll for the status of deletion using GET method on the ProvisioningRequest resource URI. Once there are no resources provisioned by the ProvisionedRequest, such as all corresponding resources are deleted successfully, the ProvisionigRequest resource instance is deleted. Further onwards a GET on this ProvisionigRequest URI shall return ‘404 Not Found’ response. This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in Table 3.4.4.3.3.5-1. Name Cardinality Description n/a This method shall support the request data structures, the response data structures, and response codes specified in Request Data type Cardinality Description body n/a Response Data type Cardinality Description Codes n/a 1 202 Accepted Shall be returned when the request has been accepted. The HTTP response shall include a "Location" HTTP Response header containing the URI for the body ProvisioningRequest instance being deleted. This URI can be used to poll for status of the delete request. ProblemDetails See 4xx/5xx In addition to the response codes defined above, any clause 3.1. common error response code as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] may be returned.

### 3.4.5 Notifications

#### 3.4.5.1 General
The ProvisioningRequest object is designed for on-demand status retrieval. The consumer (SMO) can send a read request for the ProvisioningRequest object to retrieve its status. For example, while the ProvisioningRequest is being processed, the consumer can request the current status. The response will indicate the ProvisioningRequest’s status, including its current ProvisioningPhase. Additionally, the set of provisioned resources that are provisioned once the ProvisioningRequest is fulfilled could include an O-Cloud NodeCluster and/or O-Cloud InfrastructureResource(s). These resources will be notified through the O-Cloud inventory change notification subscription.
> NOTE: Change notifications for ProvisioningRequest object is not defined in the present version of the document.

### 3.4.6 Data model

#### 3.4.6.1 REST resource data types
This clause specifies the data types to be used in resource representations supported by the present API. Data type Clause defined Description Applicability ProvisioningRequestInfo 3.2.6.2.2 This data type represents the information about the ProvisioningRequest object to provision O-Cloud Node Cluster and/or O- Cloud Infrastructure Resource(s) in an O- Cloud

#### 3.4.6.2 Structured data types

##### 3.4.6.2.1 Introduction
This clause defines the structures to be used in resource representations.

##### 3.4.6.2.2 Type: ProvisioningRequestData
This type represents information about the input parameters of a ProvisioningRequest object to provision O-Cloud Node Cluster and/or O-Cloud Infrastructure Resource(s) in an O-Cloud. It shall comply with the provisions defined in table 3.4.6.2.2-1. Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description provisioningRequestId Identifier M 1 Identifier of the ProvisioningRequest instance assigned by the SMO. name String M 1 Human readable name of the ProvisioningRequest instance as assigned by the SMO. description String M 1 Human readable description of the ProvisioningRequest instance as assigned by the SMO. templateName String M 1 Name of the template to be used as the basis for the declarative model for the ProvisioningRequest instance. When combined with the templateVersion it shall resolve to a templateId. templateVersion String M 1 Version of the template used as the basis for the declarative model for the ProvisioningRequest instance. When combined with the templateName it shall resolve to a templateId. templateParameters KeyValuePairs M 0..1 List of variables/value pairs used within the template to tailor the template to this ProvisioningRequest instance.

##### 3.4.6.2.3 Type: ProvisioningRequestInfo
This type represents information about the ProvisioningRequest object to provision O-Cloud Node Cluster and/or O- Cloud Infrastructure Resource(s) in an O-Cloud. It shall comply with the provisions defined in table 3.4.6.2.3-1. Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description provisioningRequestD ProvisioningRe M 1 It represents information about the input parameters of ata questData a ProvisioningRequest object to provision O-Cloud Node Cluster and/or O-Cloud Infrastructure Resource(s) in an O-Cloud. It shall comply with the provisions defined in table 3.4.6.2.2-1. provisioningRequestR Identifier M 1 A unique reference of this ProvisioningRequest, eference assigned by the service producer (O-Cloud) at the time of request creation. This attribute can be used for, e.g., troubleshooting purposes. status ProvisioningSt M 1 The time of the last message and the current atus ProvisioningPhase of the ProvisioningRequest. provisionedResourceS ProvisionedRe M 0..1 The resources that have been successfully provisioned et sourceSet as part of the ProvisioningRequest.

##### 3.4.6.2.4 Type: ProvisioningStatus
This type represents information about the status of the ProvisioningRequest object to provision an O-Cloud Node Cluster and/or O-Cloud Infrastructure Resource(s) in an O-Cloud. It shall comply with the provisions defined in table 3.4.6.2.4-1. Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description updateTime DateTime M 1 The last date and time that the provisioningPhase attribute was modified. This attribute will follow the date-time format. message String M 1 Human readable text about the provisioningPhase at the last updateTime. provisioningPhase ProvisioningPh M 1 This is an enumerated set of values which reflects the ase current phase of the provisioning request.

##### 3.4.6.2.5 Type: ProvisionedResourceSet
This type represents information about the resources that have been successfully provisioned as part of the ProvisioningRequest in the O-Cloud. It shall comply with the provisions defined in table 3.4.6.2.5-1. Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description nodeClusterId String M 0..1 If the ProvisioningRequest is fulfilled by a NodeCluster this field will contain its Id. See note. infrastructureResource String M 0..N If the ProvisioningRequest is fulfilled by Ids InfrastructureResource(s) this list will contain the Id(s) of all resources used to fulfil it. See note.
> NOTE: Either "nodeClusterId" or "infrastructureResourceIds" shall be present, but not both, to cover respectively
and exclusively a ProvisioningRequest used for O-Cloud Node Cluster provisioning or Infrastructure Resources

#### 3.4.6.3 Simple data types and enumerations

##### 3.4.6.3.1 Introduction
This clause defines simple data types and enumerations that can be referenced from data structures defined in the previous clauses. The simple data types defined in a request body, response body, or a structure type are deifned in ETSI GS NFV-SOL -013 [22] or this clause of the present document.

##### 3.4.6.3.2 Simple data types
The simple data types defined in table 3.4.6.3.2-1 shall be supported. Type Name Type Definition Description n/a

##### 3.4.6.3.3 Enumerations
3.4.6.3.3.1 ProvisioningPhase The enumeration ProvisioningPhase shall comply with the provisions defined in table 3.4.6.3.3.1-1. Enumeration value Description PENDING The ProvisioningRequest is waiting to be processed by the O-Cloud (IMS). PROGRESSING The O-Cloud (IMS) is processing the ProvisioningRequest and executing the actions to fulfill it. FULFILLED The ProvisioningRequest has been successfully processed and completed by the O-Cloud (IMS). FAILED The ProvisioningRequest could not be fully processed by the O-Cloud (IMS). DELETING The ProvisioningRequest is in the process of being deleted by the O-Cloud (IMS).

### 3.4.7 Error handling

#### 3.4.7.1 General
For the O2ims_InfrastructureProvisioning Service API, HTTP error responses shall be supported as specified in clause 3.1.5. In addition, the requirements in the following clauses are applicable for the O2ims_InfrastructureProvisioning Service API.

#### 3.4.7.2 Protocol errors
No specific protocol errors for the O2ims_InfrastructureProvisioning Service API are specified.
> NOTE: Descriptions on how to perform error handling based on the ProvisioningRequest machinery are not
provided in the present document version.

#### 3.4.7.3 Application errors
No specific application errors for the O2ims_InfrastructureProvisioning Service API are specified.
> NOTE: Descriptions on how to perform error handling based on the ProvisioningRequest machinery are not
provided in the present document version.

### 3.4.8 Security
No specific security procedures for the O2ims_InfrastructureProvisioning Service API are specified beyond those in clause 3.1.7.

## 3.5 O2ims_InfrastructureSoftwareManagement Service API
Not specified in the present document version.

## 3.6 O2ims_InfrastructureLifecycleManagement Service API

### 3.6.1 Description
This API allows the SMO to invoke O2ims_ InfrastructureLifecycleManagement Services towards the O-Cloud. Operations against SMO Service objects are not defined. At this time no operations are defined for O2ims_ InfrastructureLifecycleManagement in the present document version.

### 3.6.2 API version
For the O2ims_InfrastructureLifecycleManagement Service API version as specified in the present document, the MAJOR version field shall be 1, the MINOR version field shall be 0, and the PATCH version field shall be 0.

### 3.6.3 REST resources structure and methods
REST resource structure and methods for this API are not specified in the present document version.

### 3.6.4 REST resources
Not specified in the present document version.

### 3.6.5 Notifications

#### 3.6.5.1 General
Notifications shall comply to the Subscribe/Notify pattern described in clause 5.9 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 015 [25]. HTTP Notification Callback URI Description method OCloud Available callback POST Notify SMO when the O-Cloud Notification has determined that it is complete enough to allow provisioning from the SMO and/or to begin to support workload deployments.

##### 3.6.5.1.1 OCloud Available Notification Description
The OCloud Available Notification is used by the O-Cloud Infrastructure Management Service to register itself with the SMO. This occurs as part of the Genesis life cycle procedure when the O-Cloud has determined it can begin to support interactions with the SMO.

##### 3.6.5.1.2 Target URI
OCloud Available Notification.Callback URI “{oCloudAvailableEventNotification}” shall be used with the callback URI variables defined in table 3.6.5.1.2-1. Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description globalCloudId Identifier M 1 Identifier of the O-Cloud instance. Globally unique across O-Cloud instances. This value was provided by the SMO with the callback URI at the beginning of O- Cloud genesis and used in registration at the end of genesis. oCloudId Identifier M 1 Identifier of the O-Cloud instance. Unique within an O- Cloud instance. IMS_EP String M 1 The URI to the Infrastructure Services APIRoot.

### 3.6.6 Data Model

#### 3.6.6.1 REST resource data types
This clause is not specified in the present document version.

#### 3.6.6.2 Structured data types
This clause is not specified in the present document version.

#### 3.6.6.3 Simple data types and enumerations

##### 3.6.6.3.1 Introduction
This clause defines simple data types and enumerations that can be referenced from data structures defined in the previous clauses. The simple data types defined in a request body, response body, or a structured type are defined in ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] or this clause of the specification.

##### 3.6.6.3.2 Simple data types
The simple data types defined in table 3.6.6.3.2-1 shall be supported. Type Name Type Definition Description n/a

### 3.6.7 Error handling

#### 3.6.7.1 General
For the O2ims_ InfrastructureLifecycleManagement Service API, HTTP error responses shall be supported as specified in clause 3.1.5. In addition, the requirements in the following clauses are applicable for the O2ims_InfrastructureLifecycleManagement Service API.

#### 3.6.7.2 Protocol errors
No specific protocol errors for the O2ims_ InfrastructureLifecycleManagement Service API are specified.

#### 3.6.7.3 Application errors
No specific application errors for the O2ims_ InfrastructureLifecycleManagement Service API are specified

### 3.6.8 Security
No specific security procedures for the O2ims_ InfrastructureLifecycleManagement Service API are specified beyond those in clause 3.1.7.

## 3.7 O2ims_InfrastructurePerformance Service API

### 3.7.1 Description
This API allows the SMO to invoke O2ims_ InfrastructurePerformance Services towards the O-Cloud. The operations defined for O2ims_InfrastructurePerformance Services through this API are:
- Query information about one or more Performance Measurement Jobs,
- Create an individual Performance Measurement Job,
- Delete an individual Performance Measurement Job, and
- Ability to query and modify the configurable values which govern the behaviour of the Performance Service.

### 3.7.2 API version
For the O2ims_InfrastructurePerformance Service API version as specified in the present document, the MAJOR version field shall be 2, the MINOR version field shall be 0, and the PATCH version field shall be 0. added/removed across versions. Version Description

### 1.0.0 Initial API Supporting:
Measurement Job Query

### 1.1.0 New resources:
Performance Measurement Job Create Performance Management Configuration

### 2.0.0 New method:
Performance Measurement Job Delete Updated Data types: MeasurementJob MeasurementJobRequest

### 3.7.3 REST resources structure and methods
All resource URIs of the API shall use the base URI specification defined in clause 3.1.2. The string "O2ims_infrastructurePerformance" shall be used to represent {apiName}. All resource URIs in the clauses below are defined relative to the formed base URI (i.e., {apiRoot}/O2ims_infrastructurePerformance/{apiVersion}). When ambiguity is possible, the term REST resource is used to make the distinction between the term resource as understood within the context of REST API from the term resource as understood within the context of O-RAN. The O-Cloud shall support responding to requests for all HTTP methods on the resources in table 3.7.3-1 that are marked as "M" (mandatory) in the "Cat" (category) column. The O-Cloud shall also support the "API versions" resources as specified in clause 3.1.8. HTTP Cat Resource name Resource URI Description method Measurement Job List /measurementJobs POST M To create an individual Performance Measurement Job. GET M To get a list of Performance Measurement Jobs Measurement Job /measurementJobs/{measurementJobId} GET M To get an individual Performance Measurement Job DELETE M To delete an individual Performance Measurement Job Performance Service /performanceServiceConfiguration GET M To get the current Configuration configuration of the performance service. PUT M To set a whole new configuration of the performance service. PATCH M Partially update the configuration of the performance service.

### 3.7.4 REST resources

#### 3.7.4.1 Introduction
The O2ims Infrastructure Performance Service API described in the following clauses relate to Performance Management operations. These fall into four categories: Performance Measurement Job, Performance Management Reporting, Performance Management Subscription handling, and Performance Management configuration operations. Each of these REST operations relates to the four areas in the Information Model for Performance Management: Performance Measurement Store, Performance Measurement Report, Performance Subscription and Performance Measurement Jobs. See the O-RAN WG6.O-CLOUD-IM, clause 4.2.1.4.24, 4.2.1.4.21, 4.2.1.4.14 and 4.2.1.4.16 [36] for more details. These APIs enable a management system, such as the SMO, to setup Performance Measurement Jobs, to establish Performance Management Subscriptions (to receive reports), to configure Performance Management behaviour, and to interact with a Performance Measurement Store. There are REST resources and supported methods to Create, Query, Delete, Update, Suspend and Resume Performance Measurement Jobs. There are also REST resources and supported methods for Performance Management Subscription Query, Performance Management Subscription Update and Performance Management Subscription Delete. There are no preconditions or postconditions for a successful execution of each of the O2ims_InfrastructurePerformance Service API triggered by a corresponding operation.

#### 3.7.4.2 REST resource: Measurement Job List

##### 3.7.4.2.1 Description
This resource represents the list of Performance Measurement Jobs. The list can include Performance Measurement Jobs created either by the O-Cloud for internal monitoring or created by the SMO for additional measurement collection.

##### 3.7.4.2.2 Resource definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/O2ims_infrastructurePerformance/{apiMajorVersion}/measurementJobs This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in Table 3.7.4.2.2 1. Name Data type Definition apiRoot String See clause 3.1.2 apiMajorVersion String See clause 3.1.2

##### 3.7.4.2.3 Resource methods
3.7.4.2.3.1 POST The POST operation is used to create a Performance Measurement Job. This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in Table 3.7.4.2.3.1-1. Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability n/a This method shall support the request data structures, the response data structures, and response codes specified in Data type Cardinality Description Request MeasurementJobRequest 1 Request for Performance Measurement Job instance to be body created. Response Data type Cardinality Description Codes MeasurementJob 1 201 Created Shall be returned when a Performance Measurement Job instance has been created successfully. Response The response body shall contain a representation body of the MeasurementJob instance, as defined in clause 3.7.6.2.2. ProblemDetails See 4xx/5xx In addition to the response codes defined above, clause 3.1.5 any common error response code as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] may be returned. 3.7.4.2.3.2 GET The GET operation is used to retrieve the list of Performance Measurement Jobs. This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in Table 3.7.4.2.3.2-1. In the provisions below, according to clause 5.3.2.1 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22], complex attributes are assumed to be those attributes that are structured or that are arrays and are thus atomic in nature. Name Cardinality Description filter 0..1 Attribute-based filtering expression according to ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22], clause 5.2. The O-Cloud shall support receiving this parameter as part of the URI query string. The API consumer may supply this parameter. All attribute names that appear in the MeasurementJob and in data types referenced from it shall be supported by the O-Cloud in the filter expression. all_fields 0..1 Include all complex attributes in the response. See ETSI clause 5.3 of GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud shall support this parameter. fields 0..1 Complex attributes to be included into the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud should support this parameter. exclude_fields 0..1 Complex attributes to be excluded from the response. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud should support this parameter. exclude_default 0..1 Presence of this URI query parameter requests that a default set of complex attributes shall be excluded from the response. This parameter is a flag, i.e., it has no value. If none of the attribute selector parameters are specified, the "exclude_default" parameter shall be assumed as the default. See clause 5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for details. The O-Cloud shall support this parameter. The following attributes shall be excluded from the list of MeasurementJob if this parameter is provided:
- measuredResources
- collectedMeasurements
nextpage_opaque 0..1 Marker to obtain the next page of a paged response. Shall be supported by _marker the O-Cloud if the O-Cloud supports alternative 2 (paging) according to clause 5.4.2.1 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for this resource. This method shall support the request data structures, the response data structures, and response codes specified in Request Data type Cardinality Description body n/a Response Data type Cardinality Description Codes MeasurementJob 0..N 200 OK Shall be returned when information about zero or more MeasurementJob instances has been queried successfully. The response body shall contain in an array the representations of zero or more MeasurementJob instances, as defined in clause 3.7.6.2.2. If the "filter" URI parameter or one of the "all_fields", "fields" (if supported), "exclude_fields" (if supported) or "exclude_default" URI parameters was supplied in the request, the data in the response body shall have been transformed according to the rules specified in clauses 5.2.2 and 5.3.2 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22], respectively. If the O-Cloud supports alternative 2 (paging) according to clause 5.4.2.1 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for this resource, inclusion of the Link HTTP Response header in this response shall follow the provisions in body clause 5.4.2.3 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. ProblemDetails 1 400 Bad Shall be returned upon the following error: Invalid Request attribute-based filtering expression. The response body shall contain a ProblemDetails structure, in which the "detail" attribute should convey more information about the error. ProblemDetails 1 400 Bad Shall be returned upon the following error: Invalid Request attribute selector. The response body shall contain a ProblemDetails structure, in which the "detail" attribute should convey more information about the error. ProblemDetails 1 400 Bad Shall be returned upon the following error: Response Request too big. If the O-Cloud supports alternative 1 (error) according to clause 5.4.2.1 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] for this resource, this error response shall follow the provisions in clause 5.4.2.2 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. ProblemDetails See 4xx/5xx In addition to the response codes defined above, any clause 3.1. common error response code as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] may be returned. 3.7.4.2.3.3 PUT This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.7.4.2.3.4 PATCH This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.7.4.2.3.5 DELETE This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22].

#### 3.7.4.3 REST resource: Measurement Job

##### 3.7.4.3.1 Description
This resource represents the details of a Performance Measurement Job in the Measurement Job List. The Measurement Job also keeps a record of the details of the Measurement Job since its creation, such as the historical list of resources measured with the Performance Measurement Job.

##### 3.7.4.3.2 Resource definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/O2ims_infrastructurePerformance/{apiMajorVersion}/measurementJobs/{measurementJobId} This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in Table 3.7.4.3.2-1. Name Data type Definition apiRoot String See clause 3.1.2 apiMajorVersion String See clause 3.1.2 measurementJobId Identifier The identifier of the Measurement Job resource. See note.
> NOTE: This identifier can be retrieved from the performanceMeasurementJobId attribute in the payload body of the
response to a GET request getting the "Measurement Job List".

##### 3.7.4.3.3 Resource methods
3.7.4.3.3.1 POST This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.7.4.3.3.2 GET The GET operation is used to retrieve the details of an individual Measurement Job. This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in Table 3.7.4.3.3.2-1. Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability n/a This method shall support the request data structures, the response data structures, and response codes specified in 3.7.4.3.3.2-2. Request Data type Cardinality Description body n/a Response Data type Cardinality Description Codes MeasurementJob 1 200 OK Shall be returned when information about a MeasurementJob instance has been queried successfully. Response The response body shall contain a representation of body the MeasurementJob instance, as defined in clause 3.7.6.2.2. ProblemDetails See 4xx/5xx In addition to the response codes defined above, any clause 3.1. common error response code as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] may be returned. 3.7.4.3.3.3 PUT This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.7.4.3.3.4 PATCH This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22]. 3.7.4.3.3.5 DELETE The DELETE method is used to delete an individual Performance Measurement Job. This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in Table 3.7.4.3.3.5-1. Name Cardinality Description n/a This method shall support the request data structures, the response data structures, and response codes specified in Request Data type Cardinality Description body n/a Response Data type Cardinality Description Codes n/a 1 204 (no Shall be returned when the Performance content) Measurement Job has been deleted successfully. The response body shall be empty. ProblemDetails 1 409 Conflict Shall be returned upon the following error: Deletion of non-suspended Performance Measurement Job. The response body shall contain a ProblemDetails structure, in which the "detail" attribute should convey more information about the error. ProblemDetails 1 404 Not Shall be returned upon the following error: Deletion Found of non-existent Performance Measurement Job. Response The response body shall contain a ProblemDetails body structure, in which the "detail" attribute should convey more information about the error. ProblemDetails 1 403 Shall be returned upon the following error: Deletion Forbidden was requested on a Preinstalled Performance Measurement Job, which is not permitted. The response body shall contain a ProblemDetails structure, in which the "detail" attribute should convey more information about the error. ProblemDetails See 4xx/5xx In addition to the response codes defined above, clause 3.1.5 any common error response code as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] may be returned.

#### 3.7.4.4 REST resource: Performance Service Configuration

##### 3.7.4.4.1 Description
The Performance Service Configuration represents the ability to get and set the configurable values which govern the behaviour of the performance service.

##### 3.7.4.4.2 Resource definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/O2ims_infrastructurePerformance/{apiMajorVersion}/performanceServiceConfiguration This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in Table 3.7.4.4.2-1. Name Data type Definition apiRoot String See clause 3.1.2 apiMajorVersion String See clause 3.1.2

##### 3.7.4.4.3 Resource methods
3.7.4.4.3.1 POST This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in clause 6.4 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] . 3.7.4.4.3.2 GET The GET operation is used to retrieve the current performance service configuration. This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in Table 3.7.4.4.3.2-1. Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability n/a This method shall support the request data structures, the response data structures, and response codes specified in Request Data type Cardinality Description body n/a Response Data type Cardinality Description Codes PerformanceServiceCo 1 200 OK Shall be returned when information about a nfiguration PerformanceServiceConfiguration instance has been queried successfully. Response The response body shall contain a representation of body the PerformanceServiceConfiguration instance, as defined in clause 3.7.6.2.4. ProblemDetails See 4xx/5xx In addition to the response codes defined above, any clause 3.1. common error response code as defined in ETSI GS

# 5 NFV-SOL 013 [22], clause 6.4 may be returned.
3.7.4.4.3.3 PUT The PUT method is used to update all fields of the Performance Service Configuration. It operates as a replace or overwrite of the whole information representing the Performance Service Configuration This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in Table 3.7.4.4.3.3-1. Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability n/a This method shall support the request data structures, the response data structures, and response codes specified in Data type Cardinality Description Request PerformanceServiceCo 1 The parameter for the Performance Service Configuration, as body nfiguration defined in clause 3.7.6.2.4. Response Data type Cardinality Description Codes PerformanceServiceCo 1 200 OK Shall be returned when the request has been accepted nfiguration and completed. The response body shall contain a representation of the PerformanceServiceConfiguration with the result of the update (see clause 3.7.6.2.4). ProblemDetails 0..1 412 Shall be returned upon the following error: A Preconditio precondition given in an HTTP request header is not Response n failed fulfilled. body Typically, this is due to an ETag mismatch, indicating that the resource was modified by another entity prior to this request. The response body should contain a ProblemDetails structure, in which the "detail" attribute should convey more information about the error. ProblemDetails See 4xx/5xx In addition to the response codes defined above, any clause 3.1. common error response code as defined in ETSI GS

# 5 NFV-SOL 013 [22], clause 6.4 may be returned.
3.7.4.4.3.4 PATCH The PATCH method is used to modify individual fields of the Performance Service Configuration, also referred to as a partial update

# A PATCH request shall enable only those fields of the performance service configuration that are contained in the request to be modified. Attributes not contained in the request will remain unmodified.
> NOTE: It is not specified in the present document version the handling of the modifications of the child attributes of the
“extension” attribute in the representation of the performance service configuration. This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in Table 3.7.4.4.3.4-1. Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability n/a This method shall support the request data structures, the response data structures, and response codes specified in Data type Cardinality Description PerformanceServiceCo 1 The parameter for the Performance Service Configuration, as nfiguration defined in clause 3.7.6.2.4. Only parameters requested to be Request updated shall be included in the message content body The Content-Type header shall be set to "application/merge- patch+json" according to IETF RFC 7396 [29]. Response Data type Cardinality Description Codes PerformanceServiceCo 1 200 OK Shall be returned when the request has been accepted nfiguration and completed. The response body shall contain only the attributes that have been modified for the performance service configuration (see clause 3.7.6.2.4). ProblemDetails 0..1 412 Shall be returned upon the following error: A Preconditio precondition given in an HTTP request header is not Response n failed fulfilled. body Typically, this is due to an ETag mismatch, indicating that the resource was modified by another entity. The response body should contain a ProblemDetails structure, in which the "detail" attribute should convey more information about the error. ProblemDetails See 4xx/5xx In addition to the response codes defined above, any clause 3.1. common error response code as defined in ETSI GS

# 5 NFV-SOL 013 [22], clause 6.4 may be returned.
3.7.4.4.3.5 DELETE This method is not supported. When this method is requested on this resource, the O-Cloud shall return a "405 Method Not Allowed" response as defined in ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22], clause 6.4.

### 3.7.5 Notifications
The O2ims_InfrastructurePerformance Service API does not specify any notifications.

### 3.7.6 Data Model

#### 3.7.6.1 REST resource data types
Data type Clause defined Description Applicability MeasurementJob 3.7.6.2.2 This data type represents an instance of a Performance Measurement Job created either by the O-Cloud for internal monitoring or created by the SMO for additional measurement collection. MeasurementJobRequest 3.7.6.2.3 This data type represents a request for creation of a Performance Measurement Job by the consumer for measurement collection. PerformanceServiceConfiguration 3.7.6.2.4 This data type represents the Performance Service Configuration information.

#### 3.7.6.2 Structured data types

##### 3.7.6.2.1 Introduction
This clause defines the structures to be used in resource representations.

##### 3.7.6.2.2 Type: MeasurementJob
This data type represents an instance of a Performance Measurement Job created either by the O-Cloud for internal monitor or created by the SMO for additional measurement collection. It shall comply with the provisions defined in table 3.7.6.2.2-1. Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description performanceMeasur Identifier M 1 Identifier of this instance of Performance Meaurement ementJobId Job within the IMS. This value is assigned by the IMS when the job is created consumerPerforman String M 0..1 Identifier provided by the consumer for its purpose of ceJobId managing performance jobs. This value could be the same across multiple instances of IMS performance job instances. state MeasurementJo M 1 The current state of the Performance Measurement bState Job. collectionInterval Integer M 1 The interval at which performance measurements will be collected and stored. resourceScopeCriteri KeyValuePairs M 0..1 Key value pairs of resource attributes which are used to a select resources from which measurements are to be collected. This criterion determines, the value set for the Qualified Resource Types. measurementSelecti KeyValuePairs M 1 Key value pairs that identify the distinct set of onCriteria measurements within the scope of a Performance Measurement Job. status MeasurementJo M 1 The current status within the state. See note 1. bStatus preinstalledJob Boolean M 1 Boolean which is True if the PerformanceMeasurementJob was created by the O- Cloud and False for external consumer such as the SMO. qualifiedResourceTy String M 0..N This list is computed from evaluation of the pes resourceScopeCriteria. The resulting qualifiedResourceTypes are the distinct set of ResourceTypes among those measuredResources. This list of resource type UUIDs is used to qualify collectedMeasurements defined in the PM Dictionary of the qualified resource types. measuredResources MeasuredResou M 0..N This is the historical list of resources measured by this rce job. Resources added and deleted are kept track of for the life of the job. collectedMeasureme CollectedMeasur M 0..N The historical list of measurements that are or have nts ement been collected by this job based on its resourceScopeCriteria and measurementSelectionCriteria over the life of the job. extensions KeyValuePairs M 0..1 These are unspecified properties (keys and values) which extend the information provided about the Performance Measurement Job. See note 2.
> NOTE 1: The O-RAN WG6.O-CLOUD-IM [36], clauses 4.2.1.4.16.3 and 4.2.1.4.16.4 have more details for the valid
status values per state.
> NOTE 2: The extensions are not specified in the present document. None of the referenced documents do currently
specify such extensions.

##### 3.7.6.2.3 Type: MeasurementJobRequest
This data type represents a request for the creation of a Performance Measurement Job for measurement collection. It shall comply with the provisions defined in table 3.7.6.2.3-1. Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description consumerPerforman String M 0..1 Identifier provided by the consumer for purpose of ceJobId managing the performance job. collectionInterval Integer M 1 The interval at which performance measurements will be collected and stored. The unit shall be seconds. resourceScopeCriteri KeyValuePairs M 0..1 Key value pairs of resource attributes which are used to a select resources from which measurements are to be collected. This criterion determines the value set for the Qualified Resource Types. measurementSelecti KeyValuePairs M 1 Key value pairs that identify the distinct set of onCriteria measurements within the scope of a Performance Measurement Job. extensions KeyValuePairs M 0..1 These are unspecified properties (keys and values) which extend the information provided about the Performance Measurement Job. See note.
> NOTE: The extensions are not specified in the present document. None of the referenced documents do currently
specify such extensions.

##### 3.7.6.2.4 Type: PerformanceServiceConfiguration
This type represents information about the Performance Service Configuration which includes attributes to control the retention of measurements, and the meaningful metadata related to the performance service in the PerformanceMeasureStore, see O-RAN WG6.O-CLOUD-IM [36], clause 4.2.1.4.14. It shall comply with the provisions defined in table 3.7.6.2.4-1. Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description retentionPeriod Integer M 1 Number of days for measurements to be retained. See note 1. extensions KeyValuePairs M 0..1 These are unspecified properties (keys and values) which can be tailored to control the behaviour of the Performance Service. See note 2.
> NOTE 1: This value has a minimum limit such that it can’t be set to a value lower than the limit.
> NOTE 2: The extensions are not specified in the present document. None of the referenced documents do currently
specify such extensions

#### 3.7.6.3 Simple data types and enumerations

##### 3.7.6.3.1 Introduction
This clause defines simple data types and enumerations that can be referenced from data structures defined in the previous clauses. The simple data types defined in a request body, response body, or a structured type are defined in ETSI GS NFV-SOL 013 [22] or this clause of the specification.

##### 3.7.6.3.2 Simple data types
The simple data types defined in table 3.7.6.3.2-1 shall be supported. Type Name Type Definition Description n/a

##### 3.7.6.3.3 Enumerations
3.7.6.3.3.1 MeasurementJobState The MeasurementJobState contains the value for the current condition of the Performance Measurement Job which reflects operational actions that is part of a state machine for the Performance Measurement Job. See O-RAN WG6.O- CLOUD-IM [36], clause 4.3.1.4.16.3 for more details. Enumeration value Description ACTIVE A Performance Measurement Job that has been created and is currently running is defined to be in the ACTIVE state. SUSPENDED Performance Measurement Job that has been created, and through a request to stop measurement collection is defined to be in the SUSPENDED state. See the Performance Measurement Job Suspend use case in the O-RAN WG6.ORCH-USE-CASES [23], clause 3.8.9 for more details. DEPRECATED Job has been deleted but there are still counters it collected in the Performance Measurement Store. As a result of a Performance Measurement job deletion request, the Performance Measurement job is defined to be in the DEPRECATED state. A Performance Measurement job will remain deprecated until the last performance measurement referring to it is deleted from the Performance Measurement Store. See the Performance Measurement Job Delete use case in the O-RAN WG6.ORCH-USE-CASES [23], clause 3.8.7 for more details. 3.7.6.3.3.2 MeasurementJobStatus The MeasurementJobStatus is further information within a current MeasurementJobState of a Performance Measurement Job. The state and status together provide a more complete view of the operational condition of a Performance Measurement Job. See O-RAN WG6.O-CLOUD-IM [36], clause 4.2.1.4.16.3 for more details. Enumeration value Description RUNNING Performance Measurement Job is ACTIVE and running without error. FAILED Performance Measurement Job is supposed to be collecting measures but has totally failed. DEGRADED Performance Measurement Job is having issues collecting some of the measures, but it is collecting some. IDLE Performance Measurement Job is SUSPENDED. PENDING_DELETE Performance Measurement Job is DEPRECATED.

### 3.7.7 Error handling

#### 3.7.7.1 General
For the O2ims_InfrastructurePerformance Service API, HTTP error responses shall be supported as specified in clause 3.1.5. In addition, the requirements in the following clauses are applicable for the O2ims_InfrastructurePerformance Service API.

#### 3.7.7.2 Protocol errors
No specific protocol errors for the O2ims_InfrastructurePerformance Service API are specified.

#### 3.7.7.3 Application errors
No specific application errors for the O2ims_InfrastructurePerformance Service API are specified.

### 3.7.8 Security
No specific security procedures for the O2ims_InfrastructurePerformance Service API are specified beyond those in clause 3.1.7.

## 3.8 O2ims_InfrastructureLogging Service API
Not specified in the present document version.

# 4 O-Cloud Alarms

## 4.1 General
Clause 4 specifies the list of common alarms for O-Cloud, so that SMO can interpret the alarms from O-Cloud and perform root cause analysis in a multi-vendor environment. The template of alarms has been defined in clause 5.2.3.11.2 in O-RAN.WG10.Information Model and Data Models.0 [37]. This template consists of the attribute names for AlarmDictionary (such as alarmDefinitions and probableCauses). The specifications of O-Cloud alarms consist of possible values for such attributes, alarmDefinitionId and probableCauseId. ETSI NFV has defined alarms related to virtualized, containerized and cluster resources in clause 7 of ETSI GS NFV- IFA 045 [38]. Alarm definitions in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 045 specify the identifiers/names of the alarms, probable causes, associated managed objects and fault details, where applicable. Since the functional capabilities in NFV and O-Cloud environments are related, O-Cloud alarms can be based, but not limited to, on alarms specified in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 045 [38]. Therefore, here feasible, terminology of alarm definitions can be generalized to align and make reusable the alarm definitions between O-RAN and ETSI NFV frameworks. Table 4.1-1 provides a mapping between the O-RAN and ETSI NFV concepts and identified objects that are managed by respective frameworks.
> NOTE 1: Table 4.1-1 identifies in the present document version mapping of objects related to O-Cloud Node
Clusters. The list can be extended in future versions of the present document. O-RAN concept ETSI NFV concept Description Reference O-Cloud Node Cluster CIS cluster In ETSI NFV, CIS refers to Clause 7.6 of ETSI GS Container Infrastructure NFV-IFA 045 [38] specifies Services, which when termed alarms associated to CIS together with cluster it implies cluster. that is a cluster that provides capabilities for deployment of containerized workloads. In O-RAN, the O-Cloud Node Cluster concept is described in clause 3.4.3.5.8 of O- RAN.WG6.O2-GA&P [24]. O-Cloud Node CIS cluster node A CIS cluster node is a Clause 7.6 of ETSI GS compute resource that runs NFV-IFA 045 [38] specifies container infrastructure data alarms associated to CIS plane services, or control plane cluster node. services, or both. In O-RAN, the O-Cloud Node concept is described in clause 3.4.3.5.5 of O-RAN.WG6.O2- GA&P [24]. O-Cloud Node Cluster Site CIS cluster network A CIS cluster network is a Clause 7.6 of ETSI GS Network network connecting part of or NFV-IFA 045 [38] specifies the whole set of CIS cluster alarms associated to CIS nodes conforming the cluster network. CIS cluster. In O-RAN, the O-Cloud Node Cluster Site Network concept is described in clause 3.4.3.5.6 of In alarm definitions of ITU-T X.733 [27] and ETSI GS NFV-IFA 045 [38], five basic categories of alarm, which are named as “event type”, are specified as shown in Table 4.1-2 below. Additional five categories for security alarm causes are specified in ITU-T X.736 [28] and 3GPP TS 28.111 [42], and those are provided in Table 4.1-2. In ETSI GS NFV-IFA 045 [38], as well as in 3GPP TS 28.111 [42], all the probable causes are associated to specific "event type". The "event type" categories the kind of Alarms hence providing information for analysis and further correlation. Event type Description COMMUNICATIONS_ALARM An alarm of this type is associated with the procedure and/or process required for conveying information from one point to another. (as defined by Recommendation ITU-T X.733 [27]). PROCESSING_ERROR_ALARM An alarm of this type is associated with a software or processing fault. (as defined by Recommendation ITU-T X.733 [27]). ENVIRONMENTAL_ALARM An alarm of this type is associated with a condition related to an enclosure in which the equipment resides. (as defined by Recommendation ITU-T X.733 [27]). QOS_ALARM An alarm of this type is associated with degradation in the quality of service. (as defined by Recommendation ITU-T X.733 [27]). EQUIPMENT_ALARM An alarm of this type is associated with an equipment fault. Equipment can be either logical devices that are realized via some form of virtualisation or physical devices. (as defined by Recommendation ITU-T X.733 [27]). INTEGRITY_VIOLATION An indication that information may have been illegally modified, inserted or deleted. (as defined by Recommendation ITU-T X.736 [28]). OPERATIONAL_VIOLATION An indication that the provision of the requested service was not possible due to the unavailability, malfunction or incorrect invocation of the service. (as defined by Recommendation ITU-T X.736 [28]). PHYSICAL_VIOLATION An indication that a physical resource has been violated in a way that suggests a security attack. (as defined by Recommendation ITU-T X.736 [28]). SECURITY_SERVICE_OR_MECH An indication that a security attack has been detected by a security service or ANISM VIOLATION mechanism. (as defined by Recommendation ITU-T X.736 [28]). TIME_DOMAIN_VIOLATION An indication that an event has occurred at an unexpected or prohibited time. (as defined by Recommendation ITU-T X.736 [28]).

## 4.2 Alarm Definition Identifiers
This clause describes the list of O-RAN standardised values for alarmDefinitionId. the alarm definition identifier and a description of the meaning (semantics) of the alarm in the O-Cloud context. Associated object Alarm definition Identifier Description O-Cloud Node Cluster CLUSTER_WARNING One or multiple of the underlying resources of the O-Cloud Node Cluster have potential impeding service impacts, but the O-Cloud Node Cluster is still operational. CLUSTER_MINOR One or multiple of the underlying resources of the O-Cloud Node Cluster are experimenting non-service affecting fault conditions and the O-Cloud Node Cluster has nonservice affecting fault conditions. CLUSTER_MAJOR One or multiple of the underlying resources of the O-Cloud Node Cluster have service affecting conditions, but the O-Cloud Node Cluster is still operational. CLUSTER_CRITICAL One or multiple of the underlying resources of the O-Cloud Node Cluster has service affecting conditions and the O-Cloud Node Cluster is not fully operational. O-Cloud Node CLUSTERNODE_WARNING One or multiple of the underlying resources or software of the O-Cloud Node have potential impeding service impacts, but the O-Cloud Node is still operational. CLUSTERNODE_MINOR One or multiple of the underlying resources or software of the O-Cloud Node are experimenting non-service affecting fault conditions and the O-Cloud Node has non- service affecting fault conditions. CLUSTERNODE_MAJOR One or multiple of the underlying resources or software of the O-Cloud Node have service affecting conditions, but the O-Cloud Node is still operational. CLUSTERNODE_CRITICAL One or multiple of the underlying resources or software of the O-Cloud Node has service affecting conditions and the O-Cloud Node is not fully operational. O-Cloud Node Cluster CLUSTERNETWORK_WARNING One or multiple of the underlying resources or Site Network software of the O-Cloud Node Cluster Site Network resource have potential impeding service impacts, but the O-Cloud Node Cluster Site Network resource is still operational. CLUSTERNETWORK_MINOR One or multiple of the underlying resources or software of the O-Cloud Node Cluster Site Network resource are experimenting non- service affecting fault conditions and the O- Cloud Node Cluster Site Network resource has non-service affecting fault conditions. CLUSTERNETWORK_MAJOR One or multiple of the underlying resources or software of the O-Cloud Node Cluster Site Network resource have service affecting conditions, but the O-Cloud Node Cluster Site Network resource is still operational. CLUSTERNETWORK_CRITICAL One or multiple of the underlying resources or software of the O-Cloud Node Cluster Site Network resource has service affecting conditions and the O-Cloud Node Cluster Site Network resource is not fully operational.

## 4.3 Probable Cause Identifiers
This clause describes the list of O-RAN standardised values for probableCauseId. The probable causes are used to provide additional information when reporting an alarm involving those listed as "associated objects". The objects shown in the following Table 4.3-1 does not imply that associated objects are individually managed, but rather lists a set of objects with probable cause information about the failures. probable cause identifiers, event types, and the fault details in the O-Cloud context.
> NOTE 1: The probable causes specified in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 045 [38] are in turn based on and cover the typical
probable cause scopes as defined in ITU-T Recommendation X.733 [27], but considering the specific referenced objects listed in Table 4.3-1 and their resource-level realization, such as, for instance, when a compute related object (see O-Cloud Node in table 4.3-1) contains also network and storage elements.
> NOTE 2: Table 4.3-1 provides a list of defined probable causes and associated event types. Implementations may
define/use additional probable causes with tailored description and semantics to be mapped to a different event type, if necessary. Associated object Probable cause identifier Description Event type O-Cloud Node CLUSTER_COMMUNICATI Event related to the Cluster ON communication within the O- COMMUNICATIONS_ALAR Cloud Node Cluster between O- M Cloud Nodes. O-Cloud Node CERTIFICATE_EXPIRATIO Event related to expiration of PROCESSING_ERROR_A N certificate(s) for the O-Cloud LARM Node. CPU_BUS Event related to buses of a CPU resource associated to the O- EQUIPMENT_ALARM Cloud Node. CPU_CONFIGURATION Configuration related event or PROCESSING_ERROR_A state change on a CPU resource LARM associated to the O-Cloud Node. CPU_DOWN CPU resource associated to the O-Cloud Node is down/not EQUIPMENT_ALARM available. CPU_PROTOCOL Event related to CPU protocol, e.g. initialization procedure, state PROCESSING_ERROR_A transitions, etc., on a CPU LARM resource associated to the O- Cloud Node. CPU_TEMPERATURE Event related to the temperature ENVIRONMENTAL_ALAR on a CPU resource associated to M the O-Cloud Node. CPU_THROTTLING Throttling related event or state change on a CPU resource EQUIPMENT_ALARM associated to the O-Cloud Node. HOST_OS_ERROR Event related to processing PROCESSING_ERROR_A failure in the host OS of the O- LARM Cloud Node. MEMORY_BIT_ERROR Event related to single/multiple bit PROCESSING_ERROR_A errors of the memory resource LARM associated to the O-Cloud Node. MEMORY_CONFIGURATI Event related to configuration of PROCESSING_ERROR_A ON the memory resource associated LARM to the O-Cloud Node. MEMORY_ECC Event related to changes in states or rates PROCESSING_ERROR_A concerning Error Correction Code LARM (ECC) of the memory resource associated to the O-Cloud Node. MEMORY_REDUNDANCY Event related to redundancy configuration of the memory EQUIPMENT_ALARM resource associated to the O- Cloud Node. MEMORY_STATE Event related to change of state PROCESSING_ERROR_A on the memory resource LARM associated to the O-Cloud Node. Associated object Probable cause identifier Description Event type MEMORY_TEMPERATURE Event related to the temperature ENVIRONMENTAL_ALAR of memory resource associated M to the O-Cloud Node. INFRA_COMPONENT_MAI Event related to maintenance of NTENANCE an infrastructure component EQUIPMENT_ALARM associated to the O-Cloud Node. INFRA_COMPONENT_PO Event related to power outage of WER_OUTAGE an infrastructure component EQUIPMENT_ALARM associated to the O-Cloud Node. NIC_CABLE Event related to cabling/connection of the network EQUIPMENT_ALARM interface associated to the O- Cloud Node. NIC_CONFIGURATION Event related to a configuration of PROCESSING_ERROR_A the network interface associated LARM to the O-Cloud Node. NIC_DOWN Event related to the NIC associated to the O-Cloud Node EQUIPMENT_ALARM is down/not available. NIC_LINK_DOWN Event related to a link down on COMMUNICATIONS_ALAR the network interface associated M to the O-Cloud Node. NIC_LINK_TUNING Event related to link tuning of the COMMUNICATIONS_ALAR network interface associated to M the O-Cloud Node. NIC_PCI_ERROR Event related to a component of a Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCI) device of the EQUIPMENT_ALARM network interface associated to the O-Cloud Node. NIC_PCI_PARITY_ERROR Event related to PCI parity errors PROCESSING_ERROR_A of the network interface LARM associated to the O-Cloud Node. NIC_PCIE_ERROR Event related to a component of a PCI Express (PCIE) device of EQUIPMENT_ALARM the network interface associated to the O-Cloud Node. NIC_RECEIVE_FAILURE Event related to errors in the reception of packet/frames by the EQUIPMENT_ALARM network interface associated to the O-Cloud Node. NIC_TRANSMIT_FAILURE Event related to errors in the transmission of packet/frames by EQUIPMENT_ALARM the network interface associated to the O-Cloud Node. NODE_DOWN Event related to the virtual compute or bare-metal machine EQUIPMENT_ALARM associated to the O-Cloud Node is down/not available. PROCESSOR_SENSOR Sensor related event or state change on a processor resource EQUIPMENT_ALARM associated to the O-Cloud Node. STORAGE_BIT_ERROR Event related to single/multiple bit PROCESSING_ERROR_A errors on the storage resource LARM associated to the O-Cloud Node. STORAGE_BLOCK_ERRO Event related to bad blocks on PROCESSING_ERROR_A R the storage resource associated LARM to the O-Cloud Node. STORAGE_CACHE Event related to the cache of the storage resource associated to EQUIPMENT_ALARM the O-Cloud Node. STORAGE_CAPACITY Event related to capacity (such as shortage) of the storage QOS_ALARM resource associated to the O- Cloud Node. Associated object Probable cause identifier Description Event type STORAGE_CHECK Event related to consistency PROCESSING_ERROR_A checks on a storage resource LARM associated to the O-Cloud Node. STORAGE_COMMUNICATI Event related to the ON communication to/from the EQUIPMENT_ALARM storage resource associated to the O-Cloud Node. STORAGE_CONFIGURAIO Event related to the configuration PROCESSING_ERROR_A N of the storage associated to the LARM O-Cloud Node. STORAGE_CONTROLLER Event related to the controller of the storage resource associated EQUIPMENT_ALARM to the O-Cloud Node. STORAGE_DOWN Storage resource associated to PROCESSING_ERROR_A the O-Cloud Node is down/not LARM available. STORAGE_DRIVE_ARRAY Event related to storage's drive array associated to the O-Cloud EQUIPMENT_ALARM Node. STORAGE_ECC Event related to changes in states or rates concerning Error Correction Code PROCESSING_ERROR_A (ECC) of the storage or memory LARM resources associated to the O- Cloud Node. STORAGE_ENCLOSURE Event related to the enclosure of ENVIRONMENTAL_ALAR the storage resource associated M to the O-Cloud Node. STORAGE_FAILURE_PRE Event related to a predictive DICTION failure confirmed on a storage PROCESSING_ERROR_A resource associated to the O- LARM Cloud Node. STORAGE_MEMORY Event related memory resources PROCESSING_ERROR_A of the storage resource LARM associated to the O-Cloud Node. STORAGE_PHYSICAL_DIS Event related to the performance K_DEGRADED on a physical disk resource QOS_ALARM associated to the O-Cloud Node. STORAGE_ The state has changed on a PROCESSING_ERROR_A PHYSICAL_DISK_STATE physical disk resource associated LARM to the O-Cloud Node. STORAGE_POWER Event related to power supply and/or power status of the PROCESSING_ERROR_A storage resource associated to LARM the O-Cloud Node. STORAGE_REBUILD Event related to the rebuild PROCESSING_ERROR_A process of the storage resource LARM associated to the O-Cloud Node. STORAGE_REDUNDANCY Event related to redundancy configuration of the storage EQUIPMENT_ALARM resource associated to the O- Cloud Node. STORAGE_SCSI Event related to the Small Computer System Interface EQUIPMENT_ALARM (SCSI) of the storage resource associated to the O-Cloud Node. STORAGE_SENSOR Event or state change related to sensor of the storage resource EQUIPMENT_ALARM associated to the O-Cloud Node. STORAGE_SMART Event related to the Self- Monitoring Analysis and Reporting Technology (SMART) EQUIPMENT_ALARM feature of the storage resource associated to the O-Cloud Node. Associated object Probable cause identifier Description Event type STORAGE_TEMPERATUR Event related to the temperature ENVIRONMENTAL_ALAR E of the storage resource M associated to the O-Cloud Node. STORAGE_VIRTUAL_DISK Event related to the performance _DEGRADED on a virtual disk resource QOS_ALARM associated to the O-Cloud Node. STORAGE_VIRTUAL_DISK The state has changed on a PROCESSING_ERROR_A _STATE virtual disk resource associated LARM to the O-Cloud Node. SYSTEM_LICENSE_EXPIR Event related to expiration of a PROCESSING_ERROR_A ATION license applicable to the O-Cloud LARM Node. O-Cloud Node NETWORK_CONFIGURATI Event related to configuration Cluster Site Network ON issues with a network resource PROCESSING_ERROR_A associated to the O-Cloud Node LARM Cluster Site Network. NETWORK_CONNECTVIT Event related to loss or changes Y_SIGNAL in the connectivity signal COMMUNICATIONS_ALAR provided/supported by a network M resource associated to the O- Cloud Node Cluster Site Network. NETWORK_CPU_OVERLO Event related to overload in the AD CPU/compute subsystems of a PROCESSING_ERROR_A network resource associated to LARM the O-Cloud Node Cluster Site Network. NETWORK_MEMORY_OV Event related to overload in the ERLOAD memory subsystems of a network PROCESSING_ERROR_A resource associated to the O- LARM Cloud Node Cluster Site Network. NETWORK_OVERLOAD Event related to overload network input/output on a network QOS_ALARM resource associated to the O- Cloud Node Cluster Site Network. NETWORK_PACKET_LOS Event related to packet loss S experienced on a network COMMUNICATIONS_ALAR resource associated to the O- M Cloud Node Cluster Site Network. NETWORK_QOS Event related to degradation of QoS levels of a network resource QOS_ALARM associated to the O-Cloud Node Cluster Site Network.


---

<!-- SOURCE: WG6.TS.O2IMS-INTERFACE-R004-v08.00-ERR01-v01.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG6.TS.O2IMS-INTERFACE-R004- O-RAN Work Group 6 O2ims Interface Specification Errata"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms
Void

## 3.2 Symbols
Void

## 3.3 Abbreviations
Void

# 4 O2ims_InfrastructureMonitoring Service apiName
In the O-RAN WG6 O2ims Interface Specification [i.1], the string "O2ims-infrastructureMonitoring" representing the {apiName} for the O2ims_InfrastructureMonitoring Service in clause 3.3.3 "REST resources structure and methods" has been identified as incorrect; the string name was intended to be "O2ims_infrastructureMonitoring" (observe the use of "_" rather than "-"). The next version of the O2ims Interface Specification [i.1] is expected to cite the intended string name rather than the incorrect string name. Change history/Change request (history) Date Revision Description


---

<!-- SOURCE: combined_oran_wg7.md -->
<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG7.DSC.0-v04.00.md -->
---
title: "Technical Specification"
---

# 7 Release x.y.z
where: x the first digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e., technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc. (the initial approved document will have x=01). y the second digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been incorporated in the document. z the third digit included only in working versions of the document indicating incremental changes during the editing process. This variable is for internal WG7 use only. The present document specifies operator requirements for scenarios, use cases and base station classes for O-RAN white box hardware, and identifies typical deployment scenarios associated with carrier frequency, inter-site distance, and other key parameters and attributes. In the main body of this specification (in any “chapter”) the information contained therein is informative, unless explicitly described as normative. Information contained in an “Annex” to this specification is always informative unless otherwise marked as normative.

## 1.2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this text, constitute provisions of the present document.
- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition number, version number, etc.) or
non-specific.
- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including
a GSM document), a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document. [1] 3GPP TR 21.905, “Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications” [2] 3GPP TR 38.104, “NR; Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception” [3] 3GPP TR 38.473, “NG-RAN F1 Application Protocol (F1AP)” [4] 3GPP TR 38.340, “NR; Backhaul Adaptation Protocol” [5] 3GPP TR 38.874, “Study on Integrated Access and Backhaul” [6] O-RAN.WG7.CUS.0-v02.00, O-RAN WG4 Control, User and Synchronization Specification

## 1.3 Definitions and Abbreviations
Definitions For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in [1]. For the base station classes of Pico, Micro and Macro, the definitions are given in [2]. All-In-One architecture: In the all-in-one architecture, the O-RU, O-DU and O-CU are implemented on one platform. There is no need for neither fronthaul interface between O-RU and O-DU nor F1 interface between O-DU and O-CU.

# 42 Carrier Frequency: Central frequency of the cell.
F1 interface: The open interface between O-CU and O-DU, the definition is given in O-RAN WG5. Refer to [3]. IAB-donor: RAN node which provides UE’s interface to core network and wireless backhauling functionality to IAB nodes. Refer to [4] and [5]. IAB-node: AN node that supports wireless access to UEs and wirelessly backhauls the access traffic. Refer to [4] and [5]. Integrated architecture: In the integrated architecture, the O-RU and O-DU are implemented on one platform. Each O-RU and RF frontend is associated with one LLS-DU. They are then aggregated to O-CU, connected by F1 interface.

# 7 Layout: Network framework.
Mobile-Termination (MT): MT is the UE function in each IAB node that allows it to communicate with parent node.

# 9 Refer to [4] and [5].
Split architecture: The O-RU and O-DU are physically separated from one another in this architecture. A fronthaul gateway may aggregate multiple O-RUs to one O-DU. O-DU, fronthaul gateway and O-RUs are connected by fronthaul interfaces. System bandwidth: The bandwidth in which a Base Station transmits and receives multiple carriers and/or RATs simultaneously. Transmission Reception Point (TRxP): Antenna array with one or more antenna elements available to the network located at a specific geographical location for a specific area. Layer: This term refers to deployment layers. A single layer has no overlay cell. Two layers refers to a layout where the second layer maybe deployed as underlaying cell w.r.t the primary cell. Abbreviations For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in [1]. 7-2x Fronthaul interface split option as defined by O-RAN WG4

# 23 3GPP Third Generation Partnership Project

# 24 5G Fifth-Generation Mobile Communications

# 25 AC Alternating Current

# 26 BB Baseband

# 27 BDS BeiDou Navigation Satellite System
bps Bits Per Second

# 29 BS Base Station

# 30 CU Centralized Unit as defined by 3GPP

# 31 DC Direct Current

# 32 DL Downlink

# 33 DRX Discontinuous Reception

# 34 DU Distributed Unit as defined by 3GPP

# 35 EDGE Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution

# 36 EIRP Equivalent Isotropic Radiated Power
eMBB Enhanced Mobile Broadband

# 38 FDD Frequency Division Duplex

# 39 FH Fronthaul
FHGW Fronthaul gateway that can translate FH protocol from an O-DU with split option x to an O-RU x→y with split option y, with currently available option 7-2x→8. FHM Fronthaul gateway with no FH protocol translation, supporting an O-DU with split option x and an O-RU with split option x, with currently available options 6→6, 7-2x→7-2x and 8→8.

# 44 Gbps Gigabits Per Second

# 45 GNSS Global Navigation Satellite System

# 46 GSM Global System for Mobile communications

# 47 HAR Hardware Architecture and Requirement

# 48 HRD Hardware Reference Design

# 49 IAB Integrated Access and Backhaul

# 50 IEEE Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers

# 51 ISD Inter-Site Distance

# 52 KPI Key Performance Indicator

# 53 MAC Medium Access Control

# 54 MEC Mobile/Multi-access Edge Computing

# 55 MIMO Multiple Input Multiple Output

# 3 MU-MIMO Multiple User MIMO

# 4 NB-IoT Narrow Band Internet of Things

# 5 NR New Radio

# 6 O-CU O-RAN Centralized Unit as defined by O-RAN
O-DU O-RAN Distributed Unit as defined by O-RAN and having fronthaul split option 7-2x O-DU A specific O-RAN Distributed Unit having fronthaul split option x where x may be 6, 7-2x (as x defined by WG4) or 8

# 10 O-RAN Open-Radio Access Network
O-RU O-RAN Radio Unit as defined by O-RAN and having fronthaul split option 7-2x O-RU A specific O-RAN Radio Unit having fronthaul split option x, where x is 6, 7-2x (as defined by x WG4) or 8, and which is used in a configuration where the fronthaul interface is the same at the

# 14 O-DU
x O-RU A specific O-RAN Radio Unit having fronthaul split option y, where y is 7-2x (as defined by y WG4) or 8, and which is used in a configuration where the fronthaul interface at O-RU is different than that at O-DU x

# 18 PDCP Packet Data Conversion Protocol

# 19 POE Power Over Ethernet

# 20 QoE Quality of Experience

# 21 QoS Quality of Service

# 22 RAN Radio Access Network

# 23 RAT Radio Access Technology
Rel-x Release number: where x is the actual release number

# 25 RF Radio Frequency

# 26 RFFE RF Front End

# 27 RLC Radio Link Control

# 28 RRC Radio Resource Control

# 29 RRM Radio Resource Management

# 30 RU Radio Unit as defined by 3GPP

# 31 Rx Receiver

# 32 SDAP Service Data Adaptation Protocol

# 33 SDU Service Data Unit

# 34 SON Self Organized Network

# 35 SU-MIMO Single User MIMO

# 36 TDD Time division Duplex

# 37 TR Technical Report

# 38 TRP Transmission Reception Point

# 39 TS Technical Specification

# 40 Tx Transmitter

# 41 UE User Equipment

# 42 UL Uplink

# 43 UPF User Plane Function

# 44 URLLC Ultra-Reliable and Low Latency Communications
µsec Microseconds

# 46 WG Working Group

## 1.4 Objectives
Openness is one of the key principles for O-RAN Alliance. To take full advantage of the economies of scale offered by an open computing platform approach, O-RAN Alliance reference designs will specify high performance, spectral and energy efficient white-box base station hardware. Reference platforms support a decoupled approach and offer detailed schematics for hardware and software architecture to enable both the O-DU and O-RU . x x The promotion of white box hardware is a potential way to reduce the cost of 5G deployment, which will benefit both the operators and vendors. The objective of the white-box hardware workgroup is to specify and release a complete reference design, thereby fostering a decoupled software and hardware platform. Currently, there is no open base station reference design architecture, making it impossible for operators and vendors to develop software for optimizing their network operation in various application scenarios. Therefore, it is further envisioned that the group will do research on all related content to build valuable reference designs. The main objective of this document is to aid in development of base station HW architecture and requirements specification, and consequently, the HW reference design specification for white boxes based on the identified deployment scenarios within this specification. Chapter 2 Deployment Scenarios

# 9 - eMBB (enhanced Mobile BroadBand)

# 10 - URLLC (Ultra-Reliable and Low Latency Communications)
Base Station Architecture: Background For any deployment scenarios, the base station architecture falls into three categories: 1) Split Architecture, 2) Integrated architecture or 3) All-in-one architecture. The split architecture can be deployed in two ways: 1) O-CU and O-DU are connected via an optional fronthaul multiplexer (FHM) or a switch to multiple O-RU /optional cascaded O- x x RU (See Figure 2.1.1-1 or Figure 2.1.1-2) O-CU and O-DU are connected via a fronthaul gateway (FHGW ) to x x x→y multiple O-RU s (See Figure 2.1.1-2). Note that the term optional is used to indicate there may be a deployment case y where an FHM, or a switch, or a FHGW may not be used for a specific deployment scenario. The O-CU shall be located at the data center and the O-DU can be placed either at the data center or at the cell site. O-DUs located at the cell site can also be placed in a ruggedized cabinet for outdoor deployments. Depending on how much intelligence one requires to place in O-RU or O-DU , there will be a functional split that x x splits up functions of PHY layer between O-DU and O-RU . O-CU and O-DU may be designed to be integrated into x x x one hardware box or as two separate boxes. For downlink, depending on the deployed architecture, FHM or FHGW broadcasts the data to all the O-RU s or O-RU s, respectively. For uplink, it shall combine all the uplink data from x y subtending O-RU s or O-RU s according to the cell sets. Within working group 7 (and therefore all specifications x y stemming from it), all fronthaul interfaces are based on the following three criteria. A fronthaul interface that meets one of the following criteria can be defined as an open fronthaul interface: 1. O-RAN WG4 (open fronthaul interface group) released interfaces; or 2. O-RAN approved publicly (e.g., small cell forum or etc.) available external interfaces; or 3. Fronthaul interfaces made available and published as part of an O-RAN approved WG7 reference design. Within this specification, "dashed boxes" are representative of white boxes. In some cases, the figures use specific O- DU and O-RU or O-DU and O-RU terminologies to demonstrate an example split option configuration. The first x y x x case is where the FHGW translates split option x from an O-DU to split option y for an O-RU . Currently, the x→y x y following split options with a fronthaul translation and the associated terminologies will be used throughout all WG7 specifications:

# 35 1- O-DU FHGW  O-RU
7-2x 7-2x→8 8 In the case where the fronthaul gateway does not perform a protocol translation, the terminology FHM O-DU and O- x RU are used, and the following split options and the associated terminologies will be used throughout all x specifications:

# 39 1- O-DU  FHM/Switch O-RU

# 6 6

# 40 2- O-DU  FHM/Switch O-RU
7-2x 7-2x

# 41 3- O-DU  FHM/Switch O-RU

# 8 8
FH Interfacex Via Fiber Bypass Inte F r 1 face O-RUx O-RUx FH Interfacex FHM O-CU O-DUx Or FH Switch Interfacex (Optional ) O-CU & O-DUx may/may not be integrated into one Whitebox O-RUx Figure 2.1.1-1: Base Station Architecture deploying lower level split without protocol translation FH Interface x Via Fiber Bypass F Interface O-RU y O-RU y FH Interface x O-CU O-DU x FHGW FH x→y Interface y O-CU & O-DU may/may not be x integrated into one Whitebox O-RU y Figure 2.1.1-2: Base Station Architecture deploying lower level split with protocol translation Note that within WG7 and therefore all specifications stemming from it, O-DU and O-RU refer to O-DU and O- 7-2x 7-2x

# 6 RU as defined by WG4.
Since in split architecture O-DU and O-RU are physically separated from one another by the FH interface, therefore, x x depending on the split option, certain functions of base stations may either be performed in the O-DU or O-RU . There x x are 8 different FH split options available (as defined by 3GPP); however, currently within WG7 the following split options are considered (as requested by operators for their deployment scenarios): 1. Split option 6: All PHY functions will reside in O-RU while MAC functions will be performed in O- x DU . In other words, only un-coded user data is on FH. In this case the terminology O-DU and O- x 6

# 13 RU is used.
2. Split option 7-2x, the PHY is split into High and Low PHY functions; where High PHY functions (coding, rate matching, scrambling, modulations and layer mapping) are performed in O-DU while O- x RU performs the Low PHY functions (precoding, remapping, digital beamforming, IFFT and CP x insertion). All I/Q samples are in frequency domain. In this case the terminology O-DU and 7-2x

# 18 O-RU is used.
7-2x 3. Split Option 8: All PHY functions are performed in O-DU . This means that O-RU function is x x limited to RF to baseband conversion and vice versa. The I/Q samples on FH interface are in time- domain. In this case the terminology O-DU and O-RU is used.

# 8 8
In some cases, when a FHM/Switch/FHGW is not used, a second O-RU may be cascaded to the first O-RU via the FH interface. In this way, the coverage area may be further expanded. The FH interface between the two cascaded O-RUs shall be the same as the FH interface between the O-DU and the first O-RU. For downlink, the first O-RU copies the data received from the O-DU, then sends it to the second O-RU. For uplink, the first O-RU combines the uplink data from the second O-RU, and then sends it to the O-DU. Integrated Architecture is defined as where O-DU and O-RU are physically located in one hardware box and as such x x no FH interface is required to connect them. Figure 2.1.1-3 illustrates the base station having an integrated architecture. For the integrated architecture, open F1 interface is between O-CU and O-DU (which is discussed in O-RAN WG5). x O-DU & O-RU x x O-DU & O-RU F1 x x O-CU Switch Interface ⋮ ⋮ O-DU & O-RU x x

# 6 Figure 2.1.1-3: Base Station with Integrated Architecture
All-in-one Architecture is defined as where O-CU, O-DU and O-RU are physically located in one hardware box, as x x such no FH interface and F1 interface are required to connect them. Figure 2.1.1-4 illustrates the base station having an all-in-one architecture. The functions of O-CU, O-DU and O-RU are included in baseband unit followed by RF x x

# 11 Processing unit.
BB & RF

# 15 Figure 2.1.1-4: Base Station with All-in-one Architecture

# 10 (c) The options noted here are typical configurations.
(d) Other options (e.g. Sectorized with directional antenna), are not precluded. Outdoor Picocell Two scenarios have been identified for picocell outdoor scenario: 1) FR1 and 2) FR2. While both deployment scenarios have integrated architecture (See Figure 2.1.1-3), they do have different attributes and as such they have been listed separately in Table 2.2.2-1 and Table 2.2.2-2.

# 17 Table 2.2.2-1: Attributes for FR1 Outdoor Picocell
Attributes Values or Assumptions Carrier Frequency(a) n2, n4, n5, n13, n41, n48, n66, n77, n78, n79 System Bandwidth(b) ≥100 MHz (DL+UL) Cell Layout single layer Two layers:
- Macro or Micro layer
- Pico layer: random locations
Mounting Options Rooftop, Side of Building (wall), Pole, under overhang ISD 200 m BS MIMO Configuration(c) Up to 4TX/4RX Output Power ≥35 dBm EIRP Coverage(d) Omni Key Architecture Features Integrated Architecture. See Figure 2.1.1-3.

# 18 Notes:
(a) The options noted here are for the first stage, and do not preclude the study of other spectrum options, e.g. mmWave. Certain technology bands have specific regulatory requirements that must be followed (b) The system bandwidth is the total bandwidth typically assumed to derive the values for some KPIs such as area traffic capacity and user experienced data rate. It is also allowed to have an aggregated bandwidth totalling up to the system bandwidth. "DL + UL" refers to either of the following two cases:
- FDD with symmetric bandwidth allocations between DL and UL.
- TDD with the aggregated system bandwidth used for either DL or UL via switching in time-domain.

# 3 (c) The options noted here are typical configurations.
(d) Other options (e.g., Sectorized with directional antenna), are not precluded.

# 5 Table 2.2.2-2: Attributes for FR2 Outdoor Picocell
Attributes Values or Assumptions Carrier Frequency(a) n257, n258, n260, n261 System Bandwidth(b) up to 800 MHz (DL+ UL) Layout single layer Two layers:
- Macro or Micro layer
- Pico layer: random locations
Mounting Options Rooftop, Side of Building (wall), Pole, under overhang ISD 200 m BS MIMO Configuration(c) Up to 4TX/4RX Output Power 50-55 dBm EIRP Coverage(d) Omni Key Architecture Features Integrated Architecture. See Figure 2.1.1-3 .

# 6 Notes:
(a) The options noted here are for the first stage, and do not preclude the study of other spectrum options, e.g. mmWave. Certain technology bands have specific regulatory requirements that must be followed (b) The system bandwidth is the total bandwidth typically assumed to derive the values for some KPIs such as area traffic capacity and user experienced data rate. It is also allowed to have an aggregated bandwidth totalling up to the system bandwidth. "DL + UL" refers to either of the following two cases:
- FDD with symmetric bandwidth allocations between DL and UL.
- TDD with the aggregated system bandwidth used for either DL or UL via switching in time-domain.

# 14 (c) The options noted here are typical configurations.
(d) Other options (e.g. Sectorized with directional antenna) are not precluded. Outdoor Microcell There are two deployment scenario proposals for outdoor microcell by operators’ group. The architectures for both microcell deployment scenarios are the same and it is illustrated in Figure 2.1.1-1 and Figure 2.1.1-2, except that outdoor microcell have all-in-one architecture (See Figure 2.1.1-4). The base station attributes for FR1 are listed in Table 2.2.3-1. The attributes for FR2 microcell outdoor deployment scenario are listed in Table 2.2.3-2. It shall be noted that all frequencies are given as NR operating bands in either in

# 22 FR1 or FR2.

# 23 Table 2.2.3-1: Attributes for FR1 Outdoor Microcell
Values or Assumptions Attributes Outdoor Microcell Enterprise Microcell Carrier Frequency(a) n2, n4, n5, n13, n41, n48, n66, n77, n78, n79 n41, n78 System Bandwidth(b) Up to 200MHz (DL+UL) Up to 200MHz (DL+UL) Cell Layout single layer single layer Two layers: Two layers:
- Macro or Micro layer - Macro or Micro layer
- Pico layer: random locations - Pico layer: random locations
Mounting Options Rooftop, Side of Building (wall), Pole Rooftop, Side of Building (wall), Pole ISD 700 m 500m (distance between the two cascaded O- RUs: Up to 10km) BS MIMO Layers(c) Up to 16TX/16RX Up to 8TX/8RX Output Power < 61 dBm EIRP < 64 dBm EIRP Coverage(d) Omni/Sectorized Omni/Sectorized Key Architecture Split architecture (O-RAN WG4 split option 7- Split architecture (O-RAN WG4 split Features 2x) and all-in-one architecture. option 7-2x, or split option 8).

# 9 (c) The options noted here are typical configurations.
(d) Other options (e.g. Sectorized with directional antenna) are not precluded.

# 11 Table 2.2.3-2: Attributes for FR2 Outdoor Microcell
Attributes Values or Assumptions Carrier Frequency(a) n257, n258, n260, n261 System Bandwidth(b) Up to 1.2 GHz (DL+UL) Cell Layout single layer Two layers:
- Macro or Micro layer
- Pico layer: random locations
Mounting Options Rooftop, Side of Building (wall), Pole ISD 200 m BS MIMO Layers(c) Up to 4TX/4RX Output Power >60 dBm EIRP Coverage(d) Sectorized Key Architecture Features Split Architecture (O-RAN WG4 split option 7-2x).

# 12 Notes:
(a) The options noted here are for the first stage, and do not preclude the study of other spectrum options, e.g., mmWave. Certain technology bands have specific regulatory requirements that must be followed (b) The system bandwidth is the total bandwidth typically assumed to derive the values for some KPIs such as area traffic capacity and user experienced data rate. It is also allowed to have an aggregated bandwidth totalling up to the system bandwidth. "DL + UL" refers to either of the following two cases:
- FDD with symmetric bandwidth allocations between DL and UL.
- TDD with the aggregated system bandwidth used for either DL or UL via switching in time-domain.

# 20 (c) The options noted here are typical configurations.
(d) Other options (e.g. Sectorized with directional antenna) are not precluded. Integrated access and backhaul (IAB) A key benefit of Integrated Access and Backhaul (IAB) is enabling flexible and very dense deployment of NR cells without densifying the transport network proportionately. Various deployment scenarios have been proposed including support for outdoor small cell deployments, indoors, or even mobile relays (e.g., on buses or trains). The IAB architecture is shown in Figure 2.2.4-1below. IAB specifications as well as F1* interface can be found in [3]. Small Form Factor Small Form Factor MT and O-DUx/O-RUx MT and O-DUx/O-RUx IAB Relay IAB Relay Small Form Factor O-CU O-DUx/O-RUx Open F1 * or Open F1/E2 adapt Interface IAB Node Interface Small Form Factor Small Form Factor MT and O-DUx/O-RUx MT and O-DUx/O-RUx IAB Relay IAB Relay

# 6 Figure 2.2.4-1: IAB integrated architecture.
Some of the attributes of integrated access and backhaul are listed in Table 2.2.4-1.

# 8 Table 2.2.4-1: Attributes for Integrated Access and Backhaul
Attributes Values or assumptions Carrier Frequency(a) n257, n258, n260, n261 System Bandwidth(b) n257, n258, n261: 100 – 400 MHz (DL+ UL), n260: 400 – 800 MHz (DL+ UL) Cell Layout Single or HetNet, single hop to multi-hop Mounting Options Rooftop, Side of Building (wall), Pole, under overhang, vehicle (bus) ISD 200 m BS MIMO Layers(c) Up to 4TX/4RX Output Power 50-55 dBm EIRP, to be confirmed after 3GPP RAN4 confirmation Coverage (d) Omni Key Architecture Features(e) Integrated Architecture (O-DU + MT functionality)

# 9 Notes:
(a) The options noted here is for the first stage, and do not preclude the study of other spectrum options. (b) "DL + UL" refers to either of the following two cases:
- FDD with symmetric bandwidth allocations between DL and UL.
- TDD with the aggregated system bandwidth used for either DL or UL via switching in time-domain.

# 14 (c) The options noted here are typical configurations.
(d) Other options (e.g., Sectorized with directional antenna) are not precluded. (e) MT is the UE function in each IAB node that allows it to communicate with parent node.

### 2.2.5 Outdoor Macrocell (OMAC)
The outdoor deployment scenario is mainly for macro coverage for roads, buildings, open spaces, etc. in rural, semi- urban and urban areas. A key characteristic of this deployment scenario is consistent 5G experience and seamless mobility. The Macrocell configuration is defined below for split option 7-2x with the O-DU at the cell site or at the data center and can be an integrated architecture (Split 2 architecture – Integrated O-DU and O-RU). Some of its attributes are listed in Table 2.2.5-1 below. The outdoor massive MIMO radio unit deployment scenario is mainly used for improved coverage and capacity solution utilizing both spatial multiplexing and beamforming. It offers higher capacity and better user experience when compared to traditional 8T8R radio. Massive MIMO O-RU includes active antenna array system with higher number of radio RF chains. This can be deployed for high traffic roads, high rise buildings, open spaces, etc. and in rural, urban and dense urban areas. The massive MIMO radio configuration is defined below for split option 7-2x with the O-DU at the cell site or at the data center. The massive MIMO specific attributes are listed in Table 2.2.5-1 below. Massive MIMO will have separate chapters in OMAC HAR and HRD documents to describe the high- and low-level architectures in detail, respectively

# 9 Table 2.2.5-1: Attributes for FR1 Outdoor Macrocell
Attributes Values or Assumptions Carrier Frequency(a) n26, n29, n41, n66, n70, n71, n77, n78, B1/n1, B3/n3, B7/n7, n78 CEPT(e)). System Bandwidth(b) up to 400 MHz TDD; up to 205 MHz FDD Cell Layout up to 8T8R O-RU: up to 4-layer MIMO 16T16R to 64T64R Massive MIMO O-RU: up to 16-layer MIMO (DL) and; up to 12-layer MIMO (UL) Mounting Options Rooftop, Towers, Side of Buildings ISD Variable BS MIMO Layers(c) Up to 8T8R For Massive MIMO Radio Unit:16T16R to 64T64R Output Power Total Radiated Power: Variable (Default 40W/10MHz) Coverage(d) Sectorized, Directional, Beamforming (Fixed/Dynamic) Key Architecture Features Split Architecture (O-RAN WG4 split option 7-2x), see protocol translation Option for O-DU at Data Center or Cell Site; Integrated Architecture. See

# 11 Notes:
(a) The options noted here are for the first stage, and do not preclude the study of other spectrum options, e.g., CBRS. Certain technology bands have specific regulatory requirements that must be followed (b) The system bandwidth is the total bandwidth typically assumed to derive the values for some KPIs such as area traffic capacity and user experienced data rate.

# 16 (c) The options noted here are typical configurations.
(d) Other options (e.g. Omni antennas) are not precluded. . (e) n78 CEPT makes reference to a European n78 sub-band (according with ECC Decision (11) 06 and CEPT Fronthaul Gateway

# A Fronthaul Gateway (FHGW) is deployed between an O-DU and an O-RU and provides the necessary protocol
x y translation between splits x and y. Such a Fronthaul Gateway is being referred to as FHGW In Addition to the x→y. protocol translation capabilities, a Fronthaul Gateway can provide packet transport and aggregation capabilities.

# A Fronthaul Gateway can be deployed in any of the scenarios mentioned in the sections above. Generally, the attributes
of a Fronthaul Gateway are given in Table 2.2.6-1.

## 3.1 General
The base stations for each usage scenario in chapter 2 apply to Wide Area Base Stations, Medium Range Base Stations and Local Area Base Stations. The definition for the three BS classes is given in subsection 4.4 of [2]. The BS classes for each deployment scenario described in this document are defined in Table 2.2.6-1 below.

# 7 Table 2.2.6-1: Base Station Classes for Deployment Scenarios
Deployment Scenario FR1/FR2 Base Station Class Indoor Picocell Split Architecture FR1 Local Area/Medium Area Indoor Picocell Integrated Architecture FR1 Local Area/Medium Area Outdoor Picocell Integrated FR1 Medium Area Architecture FR2 Medium Area Outdoor Microcell Split Architecture FR1 Medium/Wide Area FR2 Medium/Wide Area Outdoor Microcell All-in-one FR1 Medium Area Architecture Integrated Access and Backhaul FR2 Medium Area Outdoor Macro FR1 Wide Area

## 3.2 Indoor
For indoor coverage, the base station can be identified as Local Area Base Station, and there are two key architecture types, namely, the split architecture and the integrated architecture.
> NOTE: The hardware design may consider the co-location of MEC and UPF part in O-CU/O-DU functionality if
needed. The split architecture Descriptions of the indoor split architecture are listed in Table 3.2.1-1. Table 3.2.1-1: Descriptions of Attributes for the Indoor Picocell Split Architecture Attributes Description Reference Figure protocol translation Interface(a) Open fronthaul interface Functionality (b) Split Option 6: O-RU : RF, IF, PHY (Downlink and uplink digital processing, baseband signal conversion to/from RF signal) O-CU & O-DU : MAC, RLC, PDCP (Downlink and uplink baseband processing, supply system synchronization clock, signalling processing, OM function, interface with core network) Split Option 7-2x: O-RU: RF, IF, PHY-LOW (Downlink and uplink digital processing, baseband signal conversion to/from RF signal) O-CU & O-DU: PHY-HIGH, MAC, RLC, PDCP (Downlink and uplink baseband processing, supply system synchronization clock, signalling processing, OM function, interface with core network) Split Option 8: O-RU : Downlink baseband signal convert to RF signal, uplink RF signal convert to baseband signal, interface with the fronthaul gateway O-CU &O-DU : Downlink and uplink baseband processing, supply system synchronization clock, signalling processing, OM function, interface with core network and the fronthaul gateway Fronthaul gateway: Downlink broadcasting, uplink combining, power supply for O-RU , cascade with other fronthaul gateway, synchronization clock Transmission media(b) From O-DU to Fronthaul gateway: Fiber; From Fronthaul gateway to O-RU: Fiber or Optical Electric Composite Cable From (O-DU&O-CU) to O-RU: Fiber or Optical Electric Composite Cable From (O-DU&O-CU) and core network: Fiber or Optical Electric Composite Cable; Trusted or Untrusted transport Duplex(b) TDD, FDD Deployment location Indoor Cell Coverage Omni MIMO Configuration(b) SU-MIMO/MU-MIMO; up to 4TX/4RX User distribution(c) 20-200 Fronthaul Latency Split Option 6: TBD Split Option 7-2x: fronthaul dependent (refer to [6]) Split Option 8: 150us Synchronization(b) GNSS, IEEE-1588v2, BDS Power Supply Mode(b) POE or by optical electric composite cables

# 3 Notes:
(a) The option noted here is for the first stage, and do not preclude other interface options. (b) The options noted here are for reference, and do not preclude other options. (c) The number of users distribution refers to the active users in one base station, and the options are for reference

## 3.3 Outdoor
For the outdoor scenario, the base station can be identified as a Medium Range Base Station, and there are three potential key architecture types, which are the split architecture, the integrated architecture and the all-in-one architecture. Note: The hardware design may consider the co-location of MEC and UPF part in O-CU/O-DU functionality if needed. Picocell The base station architecture for Picocell incorporates an integrated O-DU/O-RU architecture, and its description is listed in Table 3.3.1-1. Table 3.3.1-1: Descriptions of Attributes for the Outdoor Picocell Architecture Attributes Description Reference Figure Figure 2.1.1-3 Interface(a) F1 Functionality(b) O-DU+O-RU: Downlink and uplink baseband processing, supply system synchronization clock, signalling processing, OM function, interface with core network and, downlink baseband signal convert to RF signal, uplink RF signal convert to baseband signal Transmission media(b) Fiber or Optical Electric Composite Cable Duplex(b) TDD Deployment location Outdoor Cell Coverage Omni MIMO Configuration(b) SU-MIMO/MU-MIMO; up to 4TX/4RX User distribution(c) >200 Fronthaul Latency Not Applicable Synchronization(b) GNSS or IEEE-1588v2 Power Supply Mode(b) POE or by optical electric composite cables

# 16 Notes:
(a) The option noted here is for the first stage, and do not preclude other interface options. (b) The options noted here are for reference, and do not preclude other options. (c) The number of users distribution refers to the active users in one base station, and the options are for reference Microcell The base stations for FR1 microcell scenarios incorporate potential key architecture types, which are the split architecture and the all-in-one architecture. The base stations for FR2 Outdoor microcell scenarios incorporate a split RAN architecture. Their descriptions are listed in Table 3.3.2-1, Table 3.3.2-2, Table 3.3.2-3 and Table 3.3.2-4 Table 3.3.2-1: Descriptions of Attributes for the FR1 Outdoor Microcell Architecture Attributes Description Reference Figure protocol translation Interface(a) Open fronthaul interface (WG4) (Option 7-2x) Functionality(b) Provides lower layer split in RAN so that PHY-Hi, MAC/RLC/PDCP/SDAP/RRC could be centralized or virtualized and support CoMP features etc. Transmission media(b) Fiber, wireless to fiber Duplex(b) TDD Deployment location Outdoor Cell Coverage Omni; Sectorized MIMO(b) SU-MIMO/MU-MIMO; up to 16TX/16RX User distribution(c) >200 Fronthaul Latency Split Option 7-2x: fronthaul dependent (refer to [6]) Synchronization(b) GNSS or IEEE-1588v2 Power Supply Mode(b) DC/AC

# 9 Notes:
(a) The option noted here is for the first stage, and do not preclude other interface options. (b) The options noted here are for reference, and do not preclude other options. (c) The number of users distribution refers to the active users in one base station, and the options are for reference Table 3.3.2-2: Descriptions of Attributes for the FR1 Enterprise Microcell Architecture Attributes Description Reference Figure p rotocol translation Interface(a) Open fronthaul interface Functionality(b) Split Option 7-2x: O-RU: RF, IF, PHY-LOW (Downlink and uplink digital processing, baseband signal conversion to/from RF signal) O-CU & O-DU: PHY-HIGH, MAC, RLC, PDCP (Downlink and uplink baseband processing, supply system synchronization clock, signalling processing, OM function, interface with core network) Split Option 8: O-RU: Downlink baseband signal convert to RF signal, uplink RF signal convert to baseband signal, interface with O-DU O-CU &O-DU: Downlink and uplink baseband processing, supply system synchronization clock, signalling processing, OM function, interface with core network and O-RU. Transmission media(b) Fiber Duplex(b) TDD Deployment location Outdoor Cell Coverage Omni; Sectorized MIMO(b) SU-MIMO/MU-MIMO; up to 8TX/8RX User distribution(c) >300 Fronthaul Latency Split Option 7-2x: fronthaul dependent (refer to [6]) Split Option 8: 150us Synchronization(b) GNSS or IEEE-1588v2 Power Supply Mode(b) DC/AC

# 4 Notes:
(a) The option noted here is for the first stage, and do not preclude other interface options. (b) The options noted here are for reference, and do not preclude other options. (c) The number of users distribution refers to the active users in one base station, and the options are for reference Table 3.3.2-3: Descriptions of Attributes for the FR1 Outdoor Microcell with All-In-One Architecture Attributes Description Reference Figure protocol translation Interface Not Applicable Functionality(a) O-CU+O-DU+O-RU: RF, IF, PHY-LOW (Downlink and uplink digital processing, baseband signal conversion to/from RF signal), PHY-HIGH, MAC, RLC, PDCP (Downlink and uplink baseband processing, supply system synchronization clock, signalling processing, OM function, interface with core network) Transmission media(a) Fiber, wireless to fiber Duplex(a) TDD Deployment location Outdoor Cell Coverage Omni; Sectorized MIMO(a) SU-MIMO/MU-MIMO; up to 2TX/2RX User distribution(b) >300 Fronthaul Latency Not Applicable Synchronization(a) GNSS or IEEE-1588v2 Power Supply Mode(a) DC/AC

# 7 Notes:
(a) The option noted here is for the first stage, and do not preclude other interface options. (b) The options noted here are for reference, and do not preclude other options. (c) The number of users distribution refers to the active users in one base station, and the options are for reference Integrated access and backhaul (IAB) The IAB base station uses an integrated architecture, and its attributes are listed in Table 3.3.3-1. Table 3.3.3-1: Descriptions of Attributes for the IAB Architecture Attributes Description Reference Figure Figure 2.2.4-1 Interface(a) F1 Interface (WG5) (split option 2) Open fronthaul interface (WG4) (split option 7-2x) Functionality(b) Provides support for multi-hop relay per Rel. 16. Transmission media(b) Fiber, wireless to fiber Duplex(b) TDD Deployment location Outdoor mobile/fixed relays, Urban/Suburban Cell Coverage Omni or Sectorized MIMO Configuration(b) SU/MIMO and MU/MIMO; up to 4TX/4RX User distribution(c) 30 - 40 Latency 4ms/hop for eMBB Synchronization(b) GNSS, or OTA per Rel-16 Power Supply Mode(b) AC, POE, or by optical electric composite cables

# 4 Notes:
(a) The option noted here is for the first stage, and do not preclude other interface options. (b) The options noted here are for reference, and do not preclude other options. (c) The number of users distribution refers to the active users in one base station, and the options are for reference

### 3.3.4 Macrocell
The base stations for macrocell scenarios incorporate a split RAN architecture. Their descriptions are listed in

# 11 Table 3.3.4-1.
Table 3.3.4-1: Descriptions of Attributes for the FR1 Outdoor Macrocell Architecture Attributes Description Reference Figure Figure 2.1.1-1 Interface(a) Split Architecture (O-RAN WG4 split option 7-2x). Functionality(b) Split Option 7-2x: O-RU: RF, IF, PHY-LOW (Downlink and uplink digital processing, baseband signal conversion to/from RF signal) O-DU: PHY-HIGH, MAC, RLC, PDCP (Downlink and uplink baseband processing, supply system synchronization clock, signalling processing) O-CU: PDCP, SDAP, RRC (Control and User Plane separation, RRM function, i nterface with core network) Transmission media(b) Fiber, wireless to fiber Duplex(b) FDD, TDD Deployment location Outdoor Cell Coverage Sectorized, directional MIMO(b) Up to 16 layer MIMO; up to 64TX/64RX User distribution(c) >200 Fronthaul Latency 160-200 µsec Synchronization(b) GNSS, IEEE-1588v2, SyncE Power Supply Mode(b) DC/AC

# 3 Notes:
(a) The option noted here is for the first stage, and do not preclude other interface options. (b) The options noted here are for reference, and do not preclude other options. (c) The number of Users distribution refers to the active users in one base station, and the options are for reference Chapter 4 Key performance indicators

## 4.1 Peak data rate
Peak data rate is the highest theoretical data rate which is the received data bits assuming error-free conditions assignable to a single mobile station, when all assignable radio resources for the corresponding link direction are utilized (i.e., excluding radio resources that are used for physical layer synchronization, reference signals or pilots, guard bands and guard times). Indoor Outdoor Pico Pico Micro IAB Macro 0.75-1.33Gbps (DL); FR1: up to 6/12 Gbps FR1: up to 6/12 Gbps FR2: FR1: up to 6/12 0.25-0.67Gbps (UL); (UL/DL) (UL/DL) 3-12 Gbps (DL); Gbps (UL/DL) NOTE1 FR2: up to 15/30 Gbps FR2: up to 15/30 Gbps 1.5-6 Gbps (UL) (UL/DL) (UL/DL) For n260: 12-24 Gbps (DL); 6-12 Gbps (UL) NOTE1: This requirement is calculated based on the frame structure UL:DL=1:1 (TDD).

## 4.2 Peak spectral efficiency
Peak spectral efficiency is the highest theoretical data rate (normalized by bandwidth), which is the received data bits assuming error-free conditions assignable to a single mobile station, when all assignable radio resources for the corresponding link direction are utilized (i.e., excluding radio resources that are used for physical layer synchronization, reference signals or pilots, guard bands and guard times). Higher frequency bands could have higher bandwidth, but lower spectral efficiency and lower frequency bands could have lower bandwidth but higher spectral efficiency. Thus, peak data rate cannot be directly derived from peak spectral efficiency and bandwidth multiplication. Peak spectral efficiency (bps/Hz) = Peak data rate (bps)/ bandwidth (Hz). Indoor Outdoor Pico Pico Micro IAB Macro 7.5-13.3 bps/Hz (DL); 30 bps/Hz (DL) 30 bps/Hz (DL) 30 bps/Hz (DL) 30 bps/Hz (DL) 2.5-6.7 bps/Hz (UP); 15 bps/Hz (UL) 15 bps/Hz (UL) 15 bps/Hz (UL) 15 bps/Hz (UL) NOTE1 NOTE1 NOTE1 NOTE1 NOTE1: This requirement is calculated based on the frame structure UL:DL=1:1 (TDD).

## 4.3 Bandwidth
Bandwidth means the maximal aggregated total system bandwidth. It may be supported by single or multiple RF carriers. It is a quantitative KPI. Indoor Outdoor Pico Pico Micro IAB Macro

# 100 MHz FR1: up to 200 MHz FR1: up to 200 MHz FR2: 100 – 400 MHz FR1: up to 200 MHz
FR2: up to 800 MHz FR2: up to 1.2 GHz For n260: 400 – 800 MHz

## 4.4 Control plane latency
Control plane latency refers to the time for UE to move from a battery efficient state (e.g., IDLE) to start of continuous data transfer (e.g., ACTIVE). Indoor Outdoor Pico Pico Micro IAB Macro 10ms 10ms 10ms 10ms/hop 10ms

## 4.5 User plane latency
The time it takes to successfully deliver an application layer packet/message from the radio protocol layer 2/3 SDU ingress point to the radio protocol layer 2/3 SDU egress point via the radio interface in both uplink and downlink directions, where neither device nor base station reception is restricted by DRX. Indoor Outdoor Pico Pico Micro IAB Macro URLLC UL/DL(ms): URLLC UL/DL(ms): URLLC UL/DL(ms): URLLC UL/DL(ms): URLLC UL/DL (ms): 0.5ms 0.5ms 0.5ms 0.5ms/hop 1ms eMBB: UL/DL(ms): eMBB: UL/DL(ms): eMBB: UL/DL(ms): eMBB: UL/DL(ms): eMBB: UL/DL (ms): 4ms 4ms 4ms 4ms/hop 4ms

## 4.6 Mobility
Mobility means the maximum user speed at which a defined QoS can be achieved (in km/h). Indoor Outdoor Pico Pico Micro IAB Macro 3km/h <60km/h <500km/h (high speed train) 120 km/h 120 km/h (excluding high speed train)


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG7.EMC-HAR-HRD.0-R003-v01.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG7.EMC-HAR-HRD.0-R003-v01.00 Technical Specification O-RAN Work Group 7 White-box Hardware Hardware Architecture, Requirements and Reference Design Specification for Enterprise Microcell"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in [2] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in [2]. Carrier Frequency: Center frequency of the cell. F1 interface: The open interface between O-CU and O-DU defined by 3GPP TS 38.473. Frequency Band: A designated frequency range for the operation of the base station and the UE radios. 5G NR frequency bands are divided into two different frequency ranges: Frequency Range 1 (FR1) that mainly includes sub-6GHz frequency bands, some of which are bands traditionally used by previous standards but has been extended to cover potential new spectrum offerings from 410MHz to 7125MHz; Frequency Range 2 (FR2) that includes frequency bands from 24.25 GHz to 52.6 GHz. Bands in this millimeter wave range have shorter range but higher available bandwidth than bands in the FR1. Frequency Range: It refers to bandwidth defined by the frequency range within which the Base Station can be operated, defined by the band-pass filter of the BS; e.g., 3.4 – 3.8 GHz (400 MHz) Occupied Bandwidth (OBW): It refers to the bandwidth occupied by the base station when operated, defined by the sum of the active bandwidths of the band allocation(s) operated. As defined by 3GPP TS 34.121 section 5.8, occupied bandwidth is the bandwidth containing 99% of the total integrated power of the transmitted spectrum, centered on the assigned channel frequency. The bandwidth between the 0.5% power frequency points is the occupied bandwidth. Instantaneous Bandwidth (IBW): It refers to the bandwidth in which all frequency components can be simultaneously analyzed. It is defined by the frequency boundaries of the operating band(s). Fronthaul Gateway (FHGW): A fronthaul gateway is a physical entity that is located between a distributed unit and one or more radio units where it distributes, aggregates, and/or converts fronthaul protocols between the distributed unit and multiple radio units. gNB: A RAN node providing NR user plane and control plane protocol terminations towards the UE, and connected via the NG interface to the 5GC Integrated architecture: In the integrated architecture, the O-RU and O-DU are implemented on one platform. Each O-RU and RF front end is associated with one O-DU. They are then aggregated to O-CU and connected by F1 interface. Split architecture: The O-RU and O-DU are physically separated from one another in this architecture. A switch may aggregate multiple O-RUs to one O-DU. O-DU, switch and O-RUs are connected by the fronthaul interface as defined in WG4.

## 3.2 Symbols

## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in [2] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, as in [2]. 7-2x Fronthaul interface split option as defined by O-RAN WG4, also referred to as 7-2 3GPP Third Generation Partnership Project 5G Fifth-Generation [Mobile Communications] 5GC 5G Core ACS Adjacent Channel Selectivity ADC Analog to Digital Converter AFE Analog Front End AFU Antenna Filter Unit ASIC Application Specific Integrated Circuit BH Backhaul BMC Baseboard Management Controller BPSK Binary Phase Shift Keying BS Base Station CFR Crest Factor Reduction CISPR International Special Committee on Radio Interference CLK Clock CPU Central Processing Unit CRC Cyclic Redundancy Check CU Central Unit DAC Digital to Analog Converter DDC Digital Down Conversion DDR Double Data Rate DFE Digital Front End DIMM Dual-Inline-Memory-Modules DL Downlink DPD Digital Pre-Distortion DSP Digital Signal Processor DU Distributed Unit DUC Digital Up Conversion eCPRI Enhanced Common Public Radio Interface ECC Error Correcting Code EMC ElectroMagnetic Compatibility EVM Error Vector Magnitude FCC Federal Communications Commission FEC Forward Error Correction FFT Fast Fourier Transform FH Fronthaul FHGW Fronthaul Gateway FPGA Field Programmable Gate Array GbE Gigabit Ethernet GNSS Global Navigation Satellite System GPP General Purpose Processor GPS Global Positioning System IEEE Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IFFT Inverse Fast Fourier Transform IMD InterModulation Distortion IP Internet Protocol I/O Input/Output JTAG Joint Test Action Group L1 Layer 1, also referred to as PHY or Physical Layer L2 Layer 2, also referred to as Data Link layer in OSI model L3 Layer 3, also referred to as Network layer in OSI model LDPC Low-Density Parity Codes LDO Low dropout LLS Lower Layer Split LRDIMM Load-Reduced Dual In-line Memory Module LNA Low Noise Amplifier LTE Long Term Evolution LVDS Low-Voltage Differential Signaling MAC Media Access Control MIMO Multiple Input Multiple Output MCP Multi-Chip Package NG Next Generation NR New Radio OAM Operations, Administrations and Maintenance O-CU O-RAN Centralized Unit as defined by O-RAN O-DU O-RAN Distributed Unit as defined by O-RAN O-DU A specific O-RAN Distributed Unit having fronthaul split option x where x may be 6, 7-2x (as x defined by WG4) or 8 O-RU O-RAN Radio Unit as defined by O-RAN O-RU A specific O-RAN Radio Unit having fronthaul split option x, where x is 6, 7-2x (as defined by x WG4) or 8, and which is used in a configuration where the fronthaul interface is the same at the O-DU x OCXO Oven Controlled Crystal Oscillator ORx Observation Receiver PA Power Amplifier PCIe Peripheral Component Interface Express PDCP Packet Data Convergence Protocol PHY Physical Layer, also referred as L1 PLL Phase Locked Loop QAM Quadrature Amplitude Modulation QPSK Quadrature Phase Shift Keying QSFP Quad Small Form-factor Pluggable RAN Radio Access Network RF Radio Frequency RLC Radio Link Controller RRC Radio Resource Controller RU Radio Unit as defined by 3GPP RX Receiver SATA Serial ATA SDU Service Data Unit SFP Small Form-factor Pluggable SFP+ Small Form-factor Pluggable Transceiver SoC System on Chip SPI Serial Peripheral Interface SSD Solid State Drive TCXO Temperature Compensated Crystal Oscillator TDP Thermal Design Power TR Technical Report TS Technical Specification TX Transmitter UL Uplink USB Universal Serial Bus WG Working Group

# 4 Deployment Scenarios and White Box Base Station
Architecture This chapter consists of two parts: the deployment scenario and the white box architecture. The deployment scenarios outline more specific functional requirements of the base station. All the reference designs shall meet these requirements in order to comply with O-RAN white box standard. In the white box hardware architecture section, it describes the overall gNB hardware architecture and function partition that meet the design requirements. The details on each of these topics are described in the following sections.

## 4.1 Deployment Scenarios
The specification here addresses a specific deployment scenario defined by the white box Deployment Scenarios and Base Station Classes document [1]. Its requirements are also defined in [1]. Some of the key requirements described in that document are highlighted below:
- Cell type: Enterprise Microcell
- Mounting Options: Rooftop, side of building/wall, pole
- Possible Carrier Frequency Bands: n41, n78
- [Instantaneous] Bandwidth: Up to 100 MHz
- Antennas Configuration: Up to 8T8R
- Conducted Power: up to 20W per port
- Fronthaul Type: O-RAN FH (WG4) split option 7-2x
- Architecture: Split architecture

## 4.2 White Box Base Station Architecture
In general, the base station hardware architecture can be classified by using different criteria. The physical partition method is adopted by O-RAN; hence, the base station architecture is divided into two categories namely split and integrated. In split architecture, the fronthaul interface determines the gNB functions location. Here we refer to the two partitions as O-DU and O-RU; where the “x” is split option number. In case the O-RAN WG4 defined x x fronthaul interface is used, these two partitions are called O-DU and O-RU . For a more complete description 7-2x 7-2x of the terminology used, refer to the Deployment Scenarios and Base Station Classes Document [1]. For this implementation of Enterprise Microcell, the split architecture is used. With split architectures, the O-CU and O-DU are integrated into one Whitebox, as shown in Figure 4.2-1. Optionally, a second O-RU may be cascaded x to the first O-RU via the FH interface. The FH interface between the two cascaded O-RUs shall be the same as the x FH interface between the O-DU and the first O-RU. x x

# O -C U &
O O -C -D U U a x

# F 1 In re in te
te rfa c e g ra te d in to o

# O -D
n e W U x h ite b o x

# F H
In te rfa c e x

# F H
In te rfa c e x V

# F H In ia F ib

# O -R

# O -R
te rfa c e x e r B y p a ss U x U x

# O -R U x

# 5 Hardware Architecture
In the white box hardware architecture section, it describes the overall gNB hardware architecture and function partition that meet the design requirements. The details on each of these topics are described in the following sections.

## 5.1 O-CU Hardware Architecture
In a 3GPP system architecture, the gNB Central Unit (CU) communicates to the Distribution Unit (DU) via an F1 interface. This interface has been adopted by O-RAN Alliance for O-CU and O-DU connection. F1 is an IP based x protocol interface, which offers more flexibility in the O-CU platform design.

### 5.1.1 O-CU Architecture Diagram
The O-CU can be implemented with any General-Purpose Processor (GPP) based platform having an optional hardware accelerator block. The O-CU functions can be implemented either on separated hardware platforms or on the same hardware platforms integrated with O-DU functions. In either case, the O-CU hosts L2/L3 functions, x whereas O-DU hosts L2/L1 functions which require different CPU, Storage, Acceleration and Networking capabilities. Figure 5.1-1 shows the hardware blocks and interfaces within the O-CU white box. B(E at ch ke hr an ue lt)

# O - C U
E th e rn In te r fa ec te D ig it a l PU rn o c it e s s in g H A c(O E th e rn e In te r fa c a r c ep te d w a le r a tio n r e t o r a l)

### 5.1.2 O-CU Functional Module Description
The O-CU functional architecture comprises Digital Signal Processing, optional HW Acceleration, and Connectivity units as well as memory and storage units as shown in Figure 5.1-1.

### 5.1.3 O-CU Interfaces
The O-CU interfaces through backhaul with the 5GC core network and via F1 interface with the O-DU . The 7-2x backhaul and the F1 interfaces are typically implemented with GbE transport/connections.

## 5.2 O-DU Hardware Architecture
7-2x For a split RAN architecture, the functional blocks of the RAN physical layer are divided into two parts – high PHY and low PHY. The O-RAN lower layer split is defined in O-RAN WG4 fronthaul interface specification [4]. It also provides the details of the interface protocol as well as function partitions.

### 5.2.1 O-DU Architecture Diagram
7-2x Depending on the 3GPP standards and category of the radio unit, the split function blocks within O-DU and O- 7-2x RU may vary accordingly. The O-RAN fronthaul C/U/S-plane specification [4] provides comprehensive 7-2x information on this topic. The hardware functional partition architecture is shown in Figure 5.2-1. Hardware Accelerator F1 O-RAN FH Interface Interface Ethernet Digital Ethernet O-RU7-2 Interface Processing Unit Interface Timing and Synchronization 1 PPS (IN or OUT) O-DU 7-2x (IEEE 1588) 7-2x

### 5.2.2 O-DU Functional Module Description
7-2x The choice of O-DU hardware components depends on the product design requirements and is outside the 7-2x scope of this specification. Figure 5.2-2 shows the main components of O-DU . Their descriptions and 7-2x requirements are as follows: Digital Processing Unit The processing unit can be any GPP or digital signal processor (DSP), with I/O chipset. It may also be in the form of System-On-Chip (SOC), or Multi-Chip Package (MCP). Memory DDR memory devices are used to store the runtime data and software for the processing unit. Flash Memory On board non-volatile storage device is used to store the firmware and non-volatile data, such as log data. Board Management Controller The controller is used to manage/control the power and monitors the operational status of the board. Storage Device The storage device such as hard drive is used to store OS, driver and applications software. Ethernet Controller The Ethernet ports transport the fronthaul or backhaul traffic according to the gNB hardware node requirements. The Ethernet device shall support IEEE1588 based timing synchronization. Hardware Accelerator The hardware accelerator is an optional device. For performance improvement, the hardware accelerator can be used to process computationally-intensive functions (e.g., Forward Error Correction (FEC)) and to offload the processor. Accelerator PCIe Memory USB Ports USB DDR RAM Channel Flash Video Port VGA SPI Memory PCIe Slots PCIe Digital Processing Unit SMbus SMBus Port Storage Serial Ports RS232 SATA Drives Ethernet Timing Timing Signal Ethernet Ports 7-2x

### 5.2.3 O-DU Interfaces
7-2x The O-DU supported interfaces described below are also shown in Figure 5.2-2. 7-2x Memory Channel Interface Support DDR4 and later memory interface. PCIe Interface Support for PCIe Gen3 x16 and later interface versions; the bandwidth depends on the use cases, and it can be used to connect an accelerator device or network card. Ethernet Interfaces Supports any one or combination of GbE/10GbE/25GbE/40GbE links. Serial ATA Interface SATA3 shall be supported in case of software storage, such as hard drive. SPI Interface The SPI interface connects the processor with flash type of device for firmware. Video Interface Video interface is optional USB Interface Used to connect with local device for debug or on-board firmware update. Miscellaneous Interface Other interfaces that may be needed such as serial port, JTAG, etc.

## 5.3 O-RU Hardware Architecture
7-2x This section provides the high-level architecture and functional module description of O-RU . 7-2x

### 5.3.1 O-RU Architecture Diagram
7-2x O-RU consists of five modules, namely fronthaul processing unit, digital processing unit, RF processing unit, 7-2x timing unit, and power unit, as shown in Figure 5.3-1. The digital processing unit handles all digital signals, and the RF processing unit handling all analog signals. There is a data conversion block for each transceiver path after the digital processing block which converts between digital signals and analog signals. The FH processing unit complies with O-RAN WG4 open fronthaul interface. There is at least two interface port available, one for connecting with O-DU , and the other for O-RU cascading. 7-2x T o /Fro m O -D U 7-2x T o /Fro m C ascad e d

# O -R U 7-2x

# O -R U 7-2x

# O -R A N F H O -R A N P ro c e ssin g
FH In te rfa ce U n it Local tim ing from CD R

# G N SS
(optional) Local tim ing from G N SS or equivalent D ig ita l P ro c e ssin g U n it T im in g U n it P o w e r U n it P ro R F c e ssin U n it g T o /Fro m A n te n n a 7-2x

### 5.3.2 O-RU Functional Module Description
7-2x 7-2x processing unit block of O-RU is responsible for low-PHY functions such as FFT/iFFT, CP addition/removal, and 7-2x PRACH filtering. Digital Down Converter (DDC), Digital Up Converter (DUC), Crest Factor Reduction (CFR) and Digital Pre-Distortion (DPD) functions are also performed in digital processing unit. For bandwidth reduction, O-RU 7-2x architecture also supports the optional compression and decompression functions of FH interface. The ADC and DAC are mixed signal devices responsible for conversion of data between the digital and analog domains. As such, this block can be included as part of the either the digital processing unit or the RF processing unit. The RF Processing Unit consists of an optional frequency converter (mixer), Power Amplifier (PA)/ Low Noise Amplifier (LNA) and TX/RX filters. An antenna module follows that comprises physical antennae, RF feed distribution/aggregation network, and calibration network. The timing unit includes any clock and frequency synthesis required as well as other timing and synchronization circuits. In any given implementation, the physical boundaries between blocks may be slightly different, but the logical interfaces will generally follow those shown in Figure 5.3-2. ecafretnI lacitpO

# O -R U
7-2x

# F H
eCP R P I ro c e ssin g U n it

# O -R A N FH /
IEEE 1 588v2 (D e-) Co m pression Lo w -PH Y D ig ita l P ro c

# D D C/

# D U C
T im in e g ss U P in n o g U it w e n it CFR /D P r U n it D

# A D C/

# D A C
M ixer

# R F P ro ce ssin g U n it
PA /LN A / and TX /RX Filters A n tenn a M o du le 7-2x

# 6 Hardware Requirements
This chapter provides the requirements for various white boxes used within the Enterprise Microcell base station. These white boxes are O-CU, O-DU and O-RU. In this version of the specification, the O-CU and O-DU are x x x implemented in an integrated fashion into one white box hardware. The reference design based on specification shall meet all these requirements based on their priority as specified by operators.

## 6.1 O-CU Requirements
The requirement for O-CU portion is captured in the following O-DU section. x

## 6.2 O-DU Common Requirements
x The common requirements apply to all the O-DU regardless of the split option. However, in this version of the x specification, the focus will be on O-DU If more options get standardized in a future version of this document, 7-2x. some of these common requirements may be moved to the specific sub-sections in section 6.3.

### 6.2.1 Performance
The performance requirements of the O-DU for Enterprise Microcell are listed in Table 6.2-1, including the 7-2x channel bandwidth, antenna configuration, transmission distance, synchronization, etc. 7-2x Parameter Requirement Description Priority Channel Bandwidth ≤200 MHz OBW RF Bandwidth High Antenna Configuration (Number of up to 8T8R Tx/Rx antenna number High Transceivers) Distance between O-DU Transmission distance >2 km High and O-RU Synchronization Support 1588v2 Synchronization Timing synchronization High Support GPS Synchronization method High Support BeiDou Synchronization High Support Galileo Synchronization Low Support GLONASS Synchronization Low Support switching between 1588v2 and GNSS High Support SyncE Low Sync. between BS <= ±1.5 us; Carrier freq. error High within one subframe <±0.05 PPM Capacity/MIMO Support at least 4 100MHz bandwidth 4T4R cells MIMO related capability High With 100MHz bandwidth and 64% for DL, the peak throughput of one cell: Peak Rate Peak data rate High DL: 1.5Gbps (4 layers, 256QAM) UL: 280Mbps (2 layers, 64QAM) DL: QPSK, 16QAM, 64QAM, 256QAM High UL: π/2-bpsk, QPSK, 16QAM, 64QAM Modulation Modulation schemes UL: 256QAM Medium Control Plane< 10ms (def: Msg1 to Msg5) Control/user plane Latency User Plane DL < 4ms UL< 4ms (def: PDCP SDU-> High Latency PDCP SDU)

### 6.2.2 Interfaces
The interface requirements of the O-DU are listed in Table 6.2-2. 7-2x 7-2x Parameter Requirement Description Priority transport GbE or 25GbE NG interface to connect with 5G core High Transport links Interface At least 4 fronthaul interfaces connected with O-RU High 7-2x

### 6.2.3 Environmental and EMC
The EMC requirements of the O-DU are listed in Table 6.2-3. 7-2x 7-2x Parameter Requirement Description Priority Electromagnetic Complying with the requirements of 3GPP TS 38.113 (2017- EMC Compatibility High 12R15) [6] for equipment used in telecommunication room requirement

### 6.2.4 Mechanical, Thermal and Power
The mechanical requirements of the O-DU are listed in Table 6.2-4. 7-2x 7-2x Parameter Requirement Description Priority Built in any 19" standard rack, or stand alone, and the height Measurement in Dimension does not exceed 2U, the depth (including the connector) must be High three dimensions less than 750mm. Status At least include the following status indicators: Indicator ---1 indicating on/off status of the power supply Indicator lights High LED ---1 indicating on/off status of the transmission link The thermal requirements of the O-DU are listed in Table 6.2-5. 7-2x 7-2x Parameter Requirement Description Priority The O-DU shall operate steadily and reliably over a long Environmental 7-2x period of time under the following environmental conditions requirements for data center: for reliability High Operating Temperature: -5 ℃ ~ + 55 ℃ Temperature and Humidity Relative humidity: 15% ~ 85% The solution should support extended temperature range (- Environmental 40℃ to +65 ℃) and humidity (5%-95%) if implemented requirements Low for reliability outdoors. The power requirements of the O-DU are listed in Table 6.2-6. 7-2x 7-2x Parameter Requirement Description Priority DC -48 VDC (-40V ~ -57V) (can be connected to AC/DC Power Supply converter) or AC 220V power supply, voltage range of 140V~ Power supply High 300V, frequency range of 45Hz ~ 65Hz. Power Power < 480 W, with full load operation Medium Dissipation Requirement

## 6.3 O-DU Split Option Specific Requirements
x ‘This section intentionally left blank’.

## 6.4 O-RU Requirements
x The common requirements apply to all the O-RU regardless of the split option. However, in this version of the x specification, the focus will be on O-RU . If more options get standardized in a future version of this document, 7-2x some of these common requirements may be moved to the specific sub-sections in section 6.5.

### 6.4.1 Performance
The O-RU performance requirements cover all the aspects of radio unit including frequency bands, antenna 7-2x configurations, power efficiency, etc. Table 6.4-1 lists the performance parameters related to O-RU for 7-2x Enterprise Microcell. 7-2x Parameter Requirement Description Priority Radio frequency Operating band n78, n41 High band Frequency [Occupied] Bandwidth ≤200 MHz High bandwidth Antenna Configuration Tx/Rx Antenna Up to 8T8R High (Number of numbers Transceivers) Output Power Under normal condition: ±2dB Power accuracy High Accuracy less than -85dBm/MHz; See section 6.4.1 in Tx power level during Tx off Power Level High 3GPP TS 38.104 [3]. an off period EVM at maximum 64QAM: EVM smaller than 5% Max output power High output power 256QAM: EVM smaller than 3.5% The Operating band unwanted emissions shall RF operation band Operating band satisfy the Category B limit defined by the unwanted emissions High unwanted emissions section 6.6.4.2.4 in 3GPP TS 38.104 [3]. requirement The Operating band unwanted emissions shall Deliberately Transmitter spurious satisfy the Category B limit defined by the generated RF signal High emissions section 6.6.4.2.4 in [3]. by transmitter The throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum The weakest signal throughput of the reference measurement Receiver Sensitivity the receiver can High channel of G-FR1-A1-5; the reference sensitivity identify and process levels shall be better than -95.6dBm. In Channel selection, ACS, In-band blocking, out- band blocking, IMD and other receiver specification shall follow the 3GPP guidelines in Channel selection Blocking High [3], the reference sensitivity is allowed to related requirement degrade at most 6dB under all kinds of interference signal and corresponding level. Except for all the RF specifications listed above, Additional standard Other specifications other RF specifications shall follow the High to comply requirement in [3]. Downlink modulation DL Modulation QPSK、16-QAM、64-QAM、256-QAM High Mode schemes Uplink modulation π/2-BPSK、QPSK、16-QAM、64-QAM UL Modulation High mode 256QAM schemes Medium Conducted Power Up to 20W per port RF power High EIRP NA

### 6.4.2 Interfaces
The interface related requirements of the O-RU are listed in Table 6.4-2. 7-2x 7-2x Parameter Requirement Description Priority The O-RU shall have one fronthaul interface Number of fronthaul 7-2x High based on the split option supported links Interface Number The O-RU shall have one optical interface for Number of transport 7-2x High cascade links

### 6.4.3 Environmental and EMC
The environmental and EMC requirements of the O-RU are listed in Table 6.4-3. 7-2x 7-2x Parameter Requirement Description Priority Mounting Mounting method Rooftop, side of building/wall or pole High requirement The O-RU shall support Joint Grounding 7-2x Grounding Grounding Method and shall work normally when the High requirement grounding resistor is less than 10Ω. Electromagnetic The O-RU shall comply with the requirements EMC 7-2x Compatibility High of 3GPP TS 38.113 [6]. requirement

### 6.4.4 Mechanical, Thermal and Power
The mechanical, thermal and power requirements of the O-RU are listed in Table 6.4-4. 7-2x 7-2x Parameter Requirement Description Priority Weight Weight The gross weight of the O-RU shall be <12Kg High 7-2x requirement Dimensional Dimension/Volume The volume of the O-RU shall be <12L High 7-2x Measurements Mean Time Stability The MTBF shall be >200000 hours High Between Failures At full load, the power consumption shall not Power Consumption Power requirement High exceed 200W DC -48 VDC (-40v ~ -57v) (can be connected to AC/DC converter) or AC 220V power supply, Power Support Power supply High voltage range of 140V~ 300V, frequency range of Requirement 45Hz ~ 65Hz. The protection level of the O-RU shall be Level of protection 7-2x Protection level High equivalent to the IP65 standard. Ambient The O-RU shall operate at the temperature 7-2x Temperature and temperature and range of -40℃ to ＋55℃ with both cold start and High Humidity moisture hot start options. Humidity：5%~95% requirement Operational Atmospheric The O-RU shall operate normally under atmospheric 7-2x High pressure atmospheric pressure between 70 to 106Kpa. pressure requirement System cooling Cooling mode Passive cooling High requirement

## 6.5 O-RUx Split Option Specific Requirements
‘This section intentionally left blank’.

# 7 Hardware Reference Design
This chapter describes one example of white box hardware reference design including O-CU, O-DU and O-RU.

## 7.1 O-CU Hardware Reference Design
The O-CU white box hardware is the platform that perform the O-CU function of upper L2 and L3. The hardware systems specified in this document meet the computing, power and environmental requirements of use cases configurations and feature sets of RAN physical node. These requirements are described in chapter 6 of this document. For enterprise scenarios, the UPF and/or MEC platform can also be deployed in the O-CU hardware in order to meet various industrial requirements. The O-CU hardware includes the chassis platform, mother board, peripheral devices, and cooling devices. The mother board contains processing unit, memory, the internal I/O interfaces, and external connection ports. The midhaul (MH) and backhaul (BH) interface are used to carry the traffic between O-CU and O-DUas well as O-CU and core network. The other hardware functional components include: the storage for software, hardware and system debugging interfaces, board management controller, just to name a few; the O-CU designer will make decision based on the specific needs of the implementation. The HW reference design of O-CU is the same as O-DUexcept for the need of HW accelerator, thus detail design will be described in the next section.

## 7.2 O-DU Hardware Reference Design 1
7-2x The O-DU white box hardware is the platform that performs the O-DU functions such as upper L1 and lower 7-2x 7-2x L2 functions. The hardware systems specified in this document meet the computing, power and environmental requirements of use case’s configurations and feature sets of RAN physical node. These requirements are described in chapter 6 of this document. The O-DU hardware includes the chassis platform, mother board, peripheral 7-2x devices, and cooling devices. The mother board contains processing unit, memory, the internal I/O interfaces, and external connection ports. The fronthaul and backhaul interface are used to carry the traffic between O-RU and 7-2x O-DU as well as O-CU and O-DU . The O-DU design may also provide an interface for hardware accelerator 7-2x 7-2x 7-2x if that option is preferred. The other hardware functional components include: the storage for software, hardware and system debugging interfaces, board management controller, just to name a few. The O-DU designer will 7-2x make decisions based on the specific needs of the implementation. Note that the O-DU HW reference design is also feasible for O-CU and integrated O-CU/O-DU . 7-2x 7-2x

### 7.2.1 O-DU High-Level Functional Block Diagram
7-2x For this example, a dual-socket platform is used. In the following O-DU mother board functional block diagram, 7-2x it shows the interconnections of the major components and external interfaces. The digital processing unit or CPU handles the baseband processing workload. To make the processing more efficient, an accelerator can be used to assist with the baseband workload processing. The memory devices include the random-access memory (RAM) for temporary storage of data while flash memory is used for codes and logs. The storage device is for persistent storage. The external network cards can be used for fronthaul or backhaul connection. The baseboard management controller (BMC) is a microcontroller which monitors hardware operation on motherboard. DDR DDR PCIe 3.0 PCIe 3.0 UPI 9.6GT/s PCIe 3.0 PCIe 3.0 CPU 2 CPU 1 UPI 9.6GT/s PCIe 3.0 PCIe 3.0 NVMe USB *6 PCH SATA/NVMe Ethernet LAN port *4 Transceiver LAN DDR4 COM BMC SPI Flash VGA 7-2x

### 7.2.2 O-DU Hardware Components
7-2x

#### 7.2.2.1 Digital Processing Unit
The example of general-purpose processor performances and other related information are list in the following table. Item Name Description # of Cores 16 # of Threads 32 Base Frequency 2.30 GHz Max Turbo Frequency 3.70 GHz Cache 22 MB TDP 110W Max Memory Size (dependent on memory type) 1 TB Memory Types DDR4 Max # of Memory Channels 6 Sockets Supported LGA-3647 The interface specifications on the main board are as follows: Memory Channel Interfaces: The system memory capacity, type and related information is described in the following table. Item Name Description Memory Types DDR4 RDIMM/LRDIMM # of Memory Channels 6 Support ECC Yes Maximum Memory Speed 2667 MHz Memory Voltage 1.2 V PCIe: PCIe Gen 3 is supported by the processor. There are total of 48 PCIe lanes for each processor. Ethernet: The system provides 4*1Gbps Ethernet ports. When higher Ethernet bandwidth required, an Ethernet card can be installed in one of the PCIe slot.

#### 7.2.2.2 Hardware Accelerator
Hardware accelerators can be used in O-DU to offload computationally intensive functions and to optimize the 7-2x performance under varying traffic and loading conditions. While the hardware acceleration functional requirements and implementation are system designer’s choice, the O-DU is required to meet the minimum 7-2x system performance requirements under various loading conditions and deployment scenarios. For this example, the accelerator comprises a single FPGA for L1 offload and the fronthaul connectivity. The accelerator hardware and firmware features are listed in Table 7.2-3 and Table 7.2-4. System Logic cells – 2,586 K CLB LUT – 1,182K CLB Flip-Flops -2,364K SoC Resources DSP Slices - 6,840 BRAM - 75.9Mb URAM - 270Mb Form Factor HHHL PCIe Form Factor PCIe Interface Gen 3 x16 Memory 8 GB DDR4 Fronthaul interface 4*10G/25G eCPRI interfaces SMA port for GNSS antenna; Timing Interface optical port for IEEE1588v2 synchronization; 2*RJ45 port for 1PPS&TOD (in & out) Micro USB for JTAG support (FPGA programming and debug) and access to Other External Interface(s) BMC Board Management Controller Telemetry, Security, Remote Upgrade Operating Temperature (ambient) -5°C to +55°C Power < 110 W Remote System Upgrade Securely upgradable FPGA flash image 5G NR LDPC encoding/decoding with interleaving/de-interleaving and rate- L1 Acceleration matching/rate-de-matching along with early termination, CRC attachment, and HARQ management Fronthaul Protocols Support O-RAN FH (WG4) split option 7-2x Synchronization Support synchronization and timing Support for:
- FPGA flashing upgrade
Open Programmable Acceleration • Firmware version reporting Environment • PCIe diagnostics
- Ethernet diagnostics
- Temperature and voltage telemetry information
interfaces toward the Digital Processing Unit. FPGA Digital Processing (L1 Offload, Unit Connectivity & (L2 and Partial L1) Sync) F1 Interface PCIe Interface Fronthaul Interface 10G/25G Ethernet Gen3 *16 eCPRI Clock Signals 7-2x

### 7.2.3 Synchronization and Timing
This section describes the synchronization and timing mechanism that is used in the hardware accelerator. Each hardware accelerator that supports connectivity functions (e.g., O-RAN fronthaul) in O-DU must be able 7-2x to support external synchronization I/O and to receive or transmit 1 PPS reference clock source in order to ensure synchronization across network. The accelerator has a built-in DPLL, it can support GNSS, IEEE1588v2 or external reference signals as clock inputs, and output accurate frequency and synchronization signals to internal and external devices. When all reference inputs failed, the OCXO module can assist the accelerator to maintain high precision output signals for a certain period of time. Figure 7.2-3 describes the synchronization mechanisms of the accelerator.

### 7.2.4 External Interface Ports
The following table shows the external ports or slots that the system provided. Port Name Feature Description Ethernet 1 x 1GbE RJ45 for management x 1GbE RJ45 PCIe 4 PCIe 3.0 x16 slots

### 7.2.5 O-DU Firmware
7-2x BIOS and BMC firmware are needed in the system and shall be installed.

### 7.2.6 Mechanical

#### 7.2.6.1 Mother Board
The mechanical layout of the mother board shows the location of major components and interface ports. DDR ATX12V ATX PWR ATX12V FAN4 VGA DDR FAN3 VGA DDR COM IMPI DDR USB DDR LAN1 LAN2 DDR CPU1 LAN3 LAN4 U S

# B CPU2
DDR DDR DDR DDR DDR PCIe 6 DDR PCIe 5 U BHC PCIe 4 M.2 B S PCIe 3 PCH S PCIe 2 A M.2 T A PCIe 1 FAN1 FAN2

#### 7.2.6.2 Chassis
The 2U rack mount chassis contains the layout of the power supply, storage, and fans. The dimension of the hardware system is 450*446*87 (mm), and the weight is less than 25kg.

#### 7.2.6.3 Cooling
The system installs 4x 80*38 PWM fans for the cooling.

### 7.2.7 Power Unit
In a fully loaded system, including the hardware acceleration card, the system power consumption should be less than 480W. The total system power shall be kept at less than 80% of the power supply capacity. The power is provided by 1+1 CPRS 550W/800W (80Plus Platinum) power supply. Table 7.2-6 lists the power requirements of O-DU . 7-2x 7-2x Supply Domain Requirements AC Input 100-240V, 50-60Hz DC Input 240VDC Support -48V

### 7.2.8 Thermal
Active cooling with up to 4 fans is integrated in the chassis. The hardware acceleration cards use passive cooling and a custom heatsink and is equipped with temperature sensors. It is designed to operate in temperatures ranging from -5°C to +55°C.

### 7.2.9 Environmental and Regulations
The O-DU hardware system is RoHS Compliant. The power supply unit is EMC FCC/CISPR Class B compliant. Table 7-2x 7.2-7 lists the environmental related features and parameters. Item Name Description Operating Temperature -5°C to +55°C Non-operating Temperature -40°C to 70°C Operating Relative Humidity 8% to 90% (non-condensing) Non-operating Relative Humidity 5% to 95% (non-condensing) The hardware accelerator described in Section 7.2.2.2 is designed to operate in indoor environments and in temperatures ranging from -5°C to +55°C.

## 7.3 O-DU Hardware Reference Design 2
7-2x

### 7.3.1 O-DU High-Level Functional Block Diagram
7-2x 7-2x section, the O-DU hardware can be implemented with difference design choices. Here, a system design is 7-2x presented as an example which processes most of the O-DU workload. The accelerator can be used to perform 7-2x some O-DU workload functions based on the overall performance requirement. Several Ethernet controllers are 7-2x used for front haul link, back haul link and remote console control connection. The other parts include: RAM, flash memory, and hard drive storage. The USB ports are provided for hardware debug and local connection if needed. Finally, BMC block is mainly responsible for monitoring the hardware status. The digital processing unit is a system which includes a 64-bit multi-core server class processor, integrated high- speed I/O, Integrated Memory Controllers (IMC), a PCIe Switch, and a BMC. The system supports double channel 128-bit wide processing instruction set. It also supports hardware virtualization to enable dynamic provisioning of services as communication service providers extend network functions virtualization (NFV). Figure 7.3-1 shows the major functional blocks of the digital processing unit. 7-2x

### 7.3.2 O-DU Hardware Components
7-2x

#### 7.3.2.1 Digital Processing Unit
This example of the digital processing unit in O-DU is based on the General Purpose Processor (GPP). The GPP 7-2x requirements are listed in the following table. Item Name Description # of Cores 64 Base Frequency 2.20 GHz L2 Cache 32 MB Thermal Design Power (TDP) 100W Max Memory Size (dependent on memory type) 1TB Memory Types DDR4 Max # of Memory Channels 8 The interface specifications on the main board are as follows: Memory Channel Interfaces: The system memory capacity, type and related information are described in the following table. Item Name Description Memory Types DDR4 # of Memory Channels 8 Max Memory Speed 3200MHz PCIe: PCIe Gen 3 should be supported by the processor. There are total of 33 PCIe lanes.

#### 7.3.2.2 Hardware Accelerator
Refer to section 7.2.2.2.

#### 7.3.2.3 Baseboard Management Controller
BMC is used to perform hardware power control (power on, power off and power cycle), monitor hardware status (temperatures, voltages, etc.), monitor Basic I/O System (BIOS)/ Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI) firmware status, and log system events. It provides remote access via shared or dedicated NIC. System user can do console access via serial or physical/Kernel-based Virtual Machine (KVM). The BMC has dedicated RAM and flash memory. It provides access via serial port or Ethernet port. Figure 7.3-1 describes the BMC connections with related components.

### 7.3.3 Synchronization and Timing
Refer to section 7.2.3.

### 7.3.4 External Interface Ports
The following table shows the external ports or slots that the system provided. Item Name Description Ethernet 4x Gigabit Ethernet LAN connectors 1GbE IPMI RJ45 port Dual 10GbE SFP or Dual 25GE SFP28 Faber Ethernet connectors 6x25G SFP28 or 6x10G SFP USB 5 USB 3.0 ports Serial Port 1 DB9 COM port Antenna port 1 SMA connector for GNSS VGA 1 VGA port

### 7.3.5 O-DU Firmware
7-2x BIOS and BMC firmware are needed in the system and shall be installed.

### 7.3.6 Mechanical
The mechanical design for mother board, chassis, and cooling are listed in this section.

#### 7.3.6.1 Mother Board
The mechanical layout of the mother board shows the location of major components and interface ports. The following diagram also provides the dimension of the board is standard E-ATX/EEB/CEB (13*12 inch).

#### 7.3.6.2 Chassis
The 2U rack mount chassis contains the layout of the power supply which support 2 CRPS power supply, Hard disk drive and Solid State Drive (SSD) and fans. The chassis dimension is showed in following figure.

#### 7.3.6.3 Cooling
The system installs 4* 80x38mm PWM fans for the cooling. (Support 4 pcs 80x38 fan is standard configuration, and pcs 80*56mm system as optional)

### 7.3.7 Power Unit
In a fully loaded system which 3 PCIe slots, which contain 1 PCIe X16 slot support 75W power is standard power configuration, and system power supply have additional power 8pin/6pin cable to support special PCIe device which need more than 75W, and the other 2 PICE X8 slot can support 25W is compliant to standard PCIe Criteria. 1. The X16 PCIe card support full high full long dimension. (DWFHFL) 2. The 2 X8 PCIe card support full high half long dimension (SWFHHL), 3. Additional, if X16 card is double size, there only one PCIe X8 supported. 4. The Unit support 2 CRPS 800W high-efficiency Power supply, redundancy design. The O-DU chassis includes two 550W/800W CRPS power supply unit (Support 1+1 redundancy design). The 7-2x power supply unit is auto-switching capable, which enables it to automatically sense and operate at a 100v to 240v input voltage. The power supply unit features are listed in the following table. Item Name Description Output connectors 24pin/8pin/4pin/I2C Dimension (W x D x H) 77 x 225 x 84 mm(CRPS criteria) Maximum Output Power +3.3V: 25A +5V: 25A +12V: 65A -12V: 0.5A +5Vsb: 3A Rated Input Voltage/Current 100-240Vac / 10-5A Rated Input Frequency 50/60HZ Inrush current Less than 30A

### 7.3.8 Thermal
Active cooling with up to 4 fans is integrated in the chassis. The hardware acceleration cards use passive cooling and a custom heatsink and is equipped with temperature sensors. It is designed to operate in temperatures ranging from -5°C to +55°C.

### 7.3.9 Environmental and Regulations
The O-DU hardware system is RoHS Compliant. The power supply unit is EMC FCC/CISPR Class B compliant. Table 7-2x 7.3-5 lists the environmental related features and parameters. Item Name Description Operating Temperature -5°C to +45°C Non-operating Temperature -20°C to +60°C Operating Relative Humidity 8% to 90% (non-condensing) Non-operating Relative Humidity 5% to 95% (non-condensing) The hardware accelerator is designed to operate in indoor environments and in temperatures ranging from -5°C to +55°C.

## 7.4 O-RU Hardware Reference Design
7-2x

### 7.4.1 O-RU High-Level Functional Block Diagram
7-2x highlights the internal/external interfaces that are required. T o /Fro m O -D U 7-2x T o /Fro m C ascad e d

# O -R U 7-2x

# O -R U 7-2x

# O -R A N F H O -R A N P ro c e ssin g
FH In te rfa ce U n it Local tim ing from CD R

# G N SS
(optional) Local tim ing from G N SS or equivalent D ig ita l P ro c e ssin g U n it T im in g U n it P o w e r U n it P ro R F c e ssin U n it g T o /Fro m A n te n n a 7-2x

### 7.4.2 O-RU Hardware Components
7-2x

#### 7.4.2.1 O-RAN Fronthaul Processing Unit
The O-RAN Fronthaul Processing Unit receives eCPRI frames from the O-RAN fronthaul and process the control/data packets.

#### 7.4.2.2 Digital Processing Unit
The digital processing unit of O-RU is mainly for performing Low-PHY, DDC, DUC, CFR, DPD and synchronization. 7-2x In this implementation, the ADC and DAC functions are also included in the digital processing unit. This solution of the digital processing unit incorporates FPGA and a processor. The FPGA handles high speed digital processing, and the processor is used for hardware device configuration and the OAM function. The FPGA and the processor core can be integrated into one SoC or implemented into two devices. Here the FPGA and the processor core are integrated into one SoC device. The FPGA resource requirements are shown in Table 7.4-1. System Logic cells 489 K CLB Flip-Flops 447 K CLB LUT 223 K Distributed RAM 6.9 Mb Block RAM 22.8 Mb UltraRAM (Mb) 45 Mb DSP Slices 1872 GTY Transceivers 8 The RF requirements of O-RU are listed in Table 7.4-2 7-2x Parameter Symbol Min Typ Max Unit Test Condition/Comment Transmitters Centre Frequency 650 6000 MHz Transmitter Synthesis

# 450 MHz
Bandwidth Transmitter Large

# 200 MHz
Signal Bandwidth Transmitter Signal to noise ratio (SNR) maintained Attenuator Power 0 32 dB for attenuation between 0 and 20 dB Control Range Transmitter Attenuation Power 0.05 dB 20 MHz LTE/NR at -12 dBFS Control Resolution Parameter Symbol Min Typ Max Unit Test Condition/Comment Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio -66 dB 75 MHz <f≤2800 MHz (ACLR) 0 dB attenuation; in band noise falls 1 In Band Noise Floor -154.5 dBm/Hz dB for each dB of attenuation for attenuation between 0 dB and 20 dB Out of Band Noise -153 dBm/Hz 600 MHz < f ≤ 3000 MHz Floor Maximum Output 0 dB attenuation; 3 × bandwidth/2 dBm Power offset Third Order Output Intermodulation OIP3 27 dBm 600 MHz < f ≤ 3000 MHz Intercept Point Error Vector Magnitude (3GPP EVM Test Signals)

# 1900 MHz LO 0.6 % 50 kHz RF PLL loop bandwidth

# 3800 MHz LO 0.53 % 300 kHz RF PLL loop bandwidth
Observation ORx Receivers Center Frequency 450 6000 MHz IIP3 improves dB for dB for the first 18 dB of gain attenuation; QEC Gain Range 30 dB performance optimized for 0 dB to 6 dB of attenuation only. Analog Gain Step 0.5 dB For attenuation steps from 0 dB to 6 dB Receiver Bandwidth 450 MHz Maximum Usable 0 dB attenuation; increases dB for dB Input Level PHIGH -11 dBm with attenuation. -58.7 dBFS 450 MHz Integration bandwidth Integrated Noise -57.5 dBFS 491.52 MHz Integration bandwidth Third Order Input Maximum observation receiver gain; Intermodulation IIP3 test condition: PHIGH-11 dB/tone Intercept Point Narrow Band

# 1900 MHz 15 dBm

# 2600 MHz 16.5 dBm

# 3800 MHz 18 dBm
Wide Band IM3 products>130 MHz at baseband; test condition: PHIGH - 11 dB/tone; Parameter Symbol Min Typ Max Unit Test Condition/Comment

## 491.52 MSPS

# 1900 MHz 13 dBm

# 2600 MHz 11 dBm

# 3800 MHz 13 dBm
Third Order Intermodulation IM3 -70 dBc 600 MHz < f ≤ 3000 MHz Product Non IMx related spurs, does not Spurious Free Dynamic Range SFDR 64 dB include HDx; (PHIGH − 11) dB input signal Harmonic Distortion (PHIGH − 11) dB input signal Second Order -80 dBc In band HD falls within ±100 MHz Harmonic Distortion HD2 Product -73 dBc Out of band HD falls within ±225 MHz -70 dBc In band HD falls within ±100 MHz Third Order Harmonic HD3 Distortion Product -65 dBc Out of band HD falls within ±225 MHz Receivers Center Frequency 6000 MHz dB Attenuator steps from 0 dB to 6 dB Analog Gain Step dB Attenuator steps from 6 dB to 30 dB Receiver bandwidth 200 MHz 0 dB attenuation; increase dB for dB Maximum Usable with attenuation; continuous wave = Input Level PHIGH -11 dBm

# 1800 MHz; corresponds to -1 dBFS at ADC 75 MHz <f≤3000 MHz
0 dB attenuation at receiver port 600 Noise Figure NF 12 dB MHz <f≤3000 MHz Input Third Order IIP3 Intercept Point Difference Product IIP3, d Two (PHIGH − 9) dB tones near band edge

# 2600 MHz
dBm (Wideband)

# 2600 MHz (Midband) 21 dBm
Sum Product IIP3, s Two (PHIGH − 9) dB tones, at bandwidth/6 offset from the LO

# 2600 MHz
dBm (Wideband) Parameter Symbol Min Typ Max Unit Test Condition/Comment (PHIGH − 6) dB continuous wave tone at HD3 HD3 -66 dBc bandwidth/6 offset from the LO 600 MHz < f ≤ 4800 MHz

#### 7.4.2.3 RF Processing Unit

##### 7.4.2.3.1 Power Amplifier (PA) Reference Design
The Power Amplifier boosts the RF output to the level required for the base station class. 7.4.2.3.1.1 Hardware Requirements ⚫ Interface Requirements The interface requirements of the transmit PA are listed in Table 7.4-3 Item Name Description RF Enable The enable input should be compatible with 1.8V logic and tolerate 3.3V as required. A logic high enables the PA. A logic low disables the device and places it in a minimum dissipation mode. RF Output RF outputs support 50-ohm single ended to properly interface to a directional coupler, isolator, switch or antenna. RF Input RF inputs should support 50-ohm, single ended match to the transceiver output or preamp. ⚫ Power Requirements RF output power required is nominally 5 W (37 dBm). DC power is driven by efficiency of the PA and should not be more than 17W and the efficiency should be greater than 30%. ⚫ RF Requirements The PA and driver should have enough gain to boost the transceiver output to the rated power level. The output power should be at least 5W (37 dBm) including the loss of the circulator and antenna filter. The ACLR with DPD and CFR should be better than 47dBc according to the related 3GPP test models. Item Name n 78 Gain >60 dB including driver P3dB 47 dBm Input Return Loss <-15 dB Output Return Loss <-15 dB Switching Speed <1uS HD2 >28 dBc HD3 >30 dBc 7.4.2.3.1.2 Hardware Design RFin is the input of the PA, RFout is the output of the PA. Vdd and Vbias are the power input of the PA. RFen is the control pin to disable or enable the PA. The input and output should be matched to 50 ohms to optimize return loss as much as possible. Proper decoupling shall be provided to minimize impact of supply ripple on the RF output.

# R F e n
V d d V b ia s

# R F o u t

##### 7.4.2.3.2 Low Noise Amplifier (LNA) Reference Design
7.4.2.3.2.1 Hardware Requirements ⚫ Interface Requirements The interface requirements of the transmit LNA are listed in Table 7.4-5. Item Name Description Enable The enable input should be compatible with 1.8V logic and tolerate 3.3V as required. A logic high enables the LNA. A logic low disables the device and places it in a minimum dissipation mode. LNA Bypass The LNA Bypass skips the second stage LNA effectively reducing the overall gain. This would be selected when the input signal compromises the linearity of the amplifier. RF Out RF outputs support 50-ohm single ended to properly interface to the RF filtering and Rx input port of transceiver. TR Switch The TR switch is used to shunt any reflected RF power that reaches the LNA to a shunt load during the transmit period. RF Input RF inputs should support 50-ohm, single ended match to circulator. Termination This RF output port shunts any reflected transmit power to an appropriate load during the Transmit period to protect the input of the LNA. ⚫ Power Requirements DC power per channel should not exceed 0.5W. ⚫ RF Performance Requirements Item Name n 78 Gain (High/Low) 34/17 dB NF (High/Low) 1.6/1.6 dB OIP3 (High/Low) 34/34 dBm OP1dB (High/Low) 19/15 dBm TR Switch Time <1uS 7.4.2.3.2.2 Hardware Design to optimize the noise performance and flatness of the amplifier. The input switch is used to forward any reflected transmit energy to an external load during the transmit period to protect the LNA from damage. The DC supply voltage, VCC, should be properly filtered to prevent power supply noise from entering the LNA and reducing performance. VCC TR RFout RFin Terminationext LNAEN LNAbypass

##### 7.4.2.3.3 Circulator Reference Design
For TDD use, the Tx and Rx links work in time duplex. To properly couple the Tx energy to the antenna and the Rx signal to the LNA input, a circulator is used to perform this function given the potentially high RF power being processed through this device. The circulator can be configured as a clockwise or counterclockwise device depending on the layout details. 7.4.2.3.3.1 Hardware Requirements ⚫ Interface Requirements The circulator includes 3 ports that can function as in input or an output. If the device is labelled clockwise, then for each input, its nominal output is the next pin rotating right around the device. If it is counterclockwise, the nominal output is the next pin rotating to the left around the device. ⚫ RF Requirements Item Name n 78 Rotation CW or CCW Average Power Up to 43 dBm Peak Power 50 dBm Impedance 50 ohms Insertion Loss -0.3 dB Isolation 20 dB Return Loss 22 dB 7.4.2.3.3.2 Hardware Design The example on the left in Figure 7.4-5 is a clockwise oriented device. The RF input enters pin 1 and exits pin 2. Pin can also be used as an input and its output is pin 3. Finally pin 3 can also function as an input with pin 1 being the output. The device on the right is counterclockwise oriented and the signal flow is the in the opposite direction.

# 3 3

### 7.4.3 Synchronization and Timing
The purpose of the clocking device is to accept the network reference clock, typically 1 pps, and generate a jitter free reference clock(s) for other devices in the system. The clock is typically part of an IEEE 1588 implementation either controlled by an external stack or implemented in the clock device itself which could be part of the baseband implementation.

#### 7.4.3.1 Hardware Requirements
⚫ Interface Requirements The interface requirements of the transmit clocking are listed in Table 7.4-8. Item Name Description Reference Clock The clock device should receive a network reference clock from the FPGA/ASIC. This Input typically could be a 1pps, 10 MHz or other standard reference as determined by the specific implementation. More than one input is allowed that may be selected between when the reliability of one reference is compromised. Standard differential clocking should be used to preserve signal integrity. Control Control of the transceiver is by way of 3 or 4 wire SPI or IIC functioning as a slave. Support for 1.8V control is required and tolerance of 3.3V is preferred. Typically, the clock devices will be part of an IEEE1588v2 protocol loop controlled by way of this control interface or other GPIO lines as required by the hardware implementation. Clock Outputs One or more clock outputs are required to drive the digital device and transceiver clock inputs. Each output should be independently programmable in frequency to suit the application. The outputs should nominally be differential to preserve clocking edge and to maximize tolerance of high common mode signals. RF Inputs RF inputs should support 50 ohm or 100 ohms, single ended or differential signalling to match the transceiver output. ⚫ Power Dissipation Total dissipation should be about less than 2W. ⚫ RF Requirements Clocking RF requirements are given in the following table. Absolution Phase Noise, Dual Loop Typical Additional Information Mode - LVDS OUTPUT f = 122.88 MHz Example is using an external 122.88 MHz OUT VCXO (Crystek CVHD-950); reference =

## 122.88 MHz; channel divider = 10 or 1; PLL2

# 10 Hz Offset −86 dBc/Hz

# 100 Hz Offset −106 dBc/Hz
kHz Offset −126 dBc/Hz kHz Offset −135 dBc/Hz 100 kHz Offset −139 dBc/Hz 800 kHz Offset −147 dBc/Hz

# 10 MHz Offset −157 dBc/Hz

# 40 MHz Offset −158 dBc/Hz
Absolute Phase Noise, Single Loop Mode – LVDS OUTPUT Typical LVDS OUTPUT f = 122.88 MHz Example is using an external 122.88 MHz OUT reference (SMA100A generator); reference = 122.88 MHz; channel divider = 10; PLL2 LBW = 450 kHz.

# 10 Hz Offset −111 dBc/Hz

# 100 Hz Offset −113 dBc/Hz
kHz Offset −123 dBc/Hz kHz Offset −135 dBc/Hz 100 kHz Offset −140 dBc/Hz 800 kHz Offset −147 dBc/Hz

# 10 MHz Offset −157 dBc/Hz

# 40 MHz Offset −157 dBc/Hz
CLOCK OUTPUT ADDITIVE TIME Example is using an external 122.88 MHz JITTER (BUFFER MODE) source driving VCXO inputs (distribution Typical section only, does not include PLL and VCO) f = 122.88 MHz 79 fS Integrated BW = 200 kHz to 5 MHz OUT 101 fS Integrated BW = 200 kHz to 10 MHz 140 fS Integrated BW = 12 kHz to 20 MHz 187 fS Integrated BW = 10 kHz to 40 MHz 189 fS Integrated BW = 1 kHz to 40 MHz 176 fS Integrated BW = 1 MHz to 40 MHz

#### 7.4.3.2 Hardware Design
For the clocking function, it is usually performed by a synchronization IC which may include one or more PLLs. It also can supply numbers of output port to support different frequency clocking. CLK0 and CLK1 are differential reference clock inputs from the source to be cleaned up and used as the system reference. OSCI/OSCO should be connected to a crystal, and it also accepts a reference from a clock oscillator or a fundamental mode parallel-resonant crystal. XO_DPLL is single-ended signal from the external TCXO. RESET(bar) is an active low pin to reset the internal logic to their default states. CS(bar) is an active low chip select for serial control. SCLK/SCL is a serial control port clock for both SPI and I2C. SDIO/SDA is a bidirectional serial data pin for both SPI and I2C. SDO is the serial data out pin for 4-wire mode. Q0 through Q11 are differential programmable output clock signals. These are the primary outputs of this device and provide high performance clock signals to the transceiver, baseband device and other key elements. This device is also responsible for providing SYSREF to various devices in the system if required. It may also use an external SYSREF as a source that may be retimed for local timing if necessary. GPIO0~9 are GPIO signals. The GPIO signals are intended to provide a user with a flexible method to manage the control and status of the part via pins without providing dedicated pins for each possible function that may be wasted in a lot of applications. The GPIOs are fully configurable so that any GPIO can perform any function on any target logic block.

### 7.4.4 External Interface Ports
The following table shows the external ports or slots provided by the O-RU . External connections can be 7-2x aggregated into a composite connector to minimize the points of environmental ingress as required for a specific deployment. Port Name Feature Description One 25Gbps optical interface to connect with O- DU Fronthaul interface 7-2x One 25Gbps optical interface for cascade Debug interface RJ45 for debug usage Power interface Two-pin male plug for power cable

### 7.4.5 Mechanical
One such mechanical structure is shown in Figure 7.4-7. The shell should provide appropriate environmental protection, RF shielding and passive thermal dissipation. Internally, thermal pads are used to contact local heat sources and transfer that heat to the frame which in turn dissipates the heat through bulk metal and fins used to increase the effective surface area. Other enclosures are possible.

### 7.4.6 Power Unit
For the power solution of the O-RU can be over power cable. And for the board power solution, LDO and DC- 7-2x DC can be used.

#### 7.4.6.1 Hardware Requirements
The power unit is responsible for isolating and converting the telco supply to appropriate voltages for distribution to individual supply domains in the O-RU . The typical dissipation is outlined below. The RF front end is broken 7-2x out separately since different deployment scenarios will require different frequencies and power levels resulting is significantly different total dissipation. Total Power is the sum of the two sections below. Module 8T8R(W) Notes FPGA 40 PLL 1.5 Ethernet PHY 1 DDR 1 SFP+ Module 1.5 1 module installed Others 3 Total device consumption 48 O-RU 7-2x digital processing 56.5 on board power efficiency 0.85 unit power consumption Module 8T8R(W) Notes 75% Tx,Max RF. 5W rms PA 150 output@100MHz PA Drive Amp 12 LNA 5 28% Rx Others 3 Bias generators and controller Total device consumption 170 O-RU RF processing unit 7-2x power consumption 200 on board power efficiency 0.85

#### 7.4.6.2 Hardware Design
The block diagram of the power unit is shown in Figure 7.4-8, which depict the power distribution to various functional modules such as PA board and FPGA/RF SoC board(Digital) along with approximate power requirements.

### 7.4.7 Thermal
The O-RU will use passive cooling. 7-2x

### 7.4.8 Environmental and Regulations
The O-RU hardware system is RoHS Compliant. 7-2x Item Name Description Operating Temperature -40°C to +55°C Storage Temperature -45°C to +70°C Humidity 2% to 95% Atmospheric Pressure 70kPa to 106kPa History Date Revision Description


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG7.FHGW-HRD.0-v02.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG7.FHGW-HRD.0-v02.00 Technical Specification Hardware Reference Design Specification for Fronthaul Gateway"
---

# 8 Release x.y.z
where: x the first digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e., technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc. (the initial approved document will have x=01). y the second digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been incorporated in the document. z the third digit included only in working versions of the document indicating incremental changes during the editing process. This variable is for internal WG7 use only. The present document specifies a hardware reference design for the fronthaul gateway. The fronthaul gateway can be used to terminate O-RAN fronthaul user, control, synchronization, and management planes for option 7-2x and to translate the signals to and from a number of CPRI interfaces (option 8). It can further multiplex or demultiplex option 7-2x fronthaul signals to or from a number of O-RUs. This version of the specification only supports option 7-2x to option 8 conversion and vice versa in addition to the transport of other traffic streams. In the main body of this specification (in any “chapter”) the information contained therein is informative, unless explicitly described as normative. Information contained in an “Annex” to this specification is always informative unless otherwise marked as normative.

# 27 1.2 References
[1] ORAN-WG7.DSC.0-V02.00 Technical Specification, ‘Deployment Scenarios and Base Station

# 29 Classes for White Box Hardware’.
[2] ORAN-WG4.CUS.0-v04.00 Technical Specification, ‘O-RAN Fronthaul Working Group Control,

# 31 User and Synchronization Plane Specification’.
[3] O-RAN Architecture Description, O-RAN-WG1-O-RAN Architecture Description - v01.00.00 [4] CPRI interface specification V 7.0. http://cpri.info/spec.html [5] O-RAN Hardware Reference Design Specification for Indoor Picocell FR1 with Split Architecture

# 35 Option 8 v1.0

# 3 1.3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in [2] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, as in [2]. 7-2 Fronthaul interface split option as defined by O-RAN WG4, also referred to as 7-2x

# 8 5G Fifth-Generation Mobile Communications

# 9 ASIC Application Specific Integrated Circuit

# 10 BS Base Station

# 11 CU Centralized Unit as defined by 3GPP

# 12 DL Downlink

# 13 DPLL Digital Phase Lock Loop

# 14 DSP Digital Signal Processor

# 15 DU Distributed Unit as defined by 3GPP

# 16 FFT Fast Fourier Transform

# 17 FH Fronthaul

# 18 FHGW Fronthaul Gateway
FHGW Fronthaul Gateway that can translate FH protocol from an O-DU with split option x to an x→y O-RU with split option y, with currently available option 7-28.

# 21 FPGA Field Programmable Gate Array

# 22 GbE Gigabit Ethernet

# 23 GNSS Global Navigation Satellite System

# 24 IEEE Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers

# 25 I/O Input/Output

# 26 LTE Long Term Evolution

# 27 MAC Media Access Control

# 28 O-CU O-RAN Centralized Unit as defined by O-RAN

# 29 OCXO Oven Controlled Crystal Oscillator
O-DUx A specific O-RAN Distributed Unit having fronthaul split option x where x may be 6, 7-2

# 31 (as defined by WG4) or 8
O-RUx A specific O-RAN Radio Unit having fronthaul split option x, where x is 6, 7-2 (as defined by WG4) or 8, and which is used in a configuration where the fronthaul interface is the same at the O-DU x

# 35 PCIe Peripheral Component Interface Express

# 36 POE Power over Ethernet

# 37 RAN Radio Access Network

# 38 RF Radio Frequency

# 39 RU Radio Unit as defined by 3GPP

# 40 RX Receiver

# 3 SoC System On Chip

# 4 TX Transmitter

# 5 UL Uplink

# 6 USB Universal Serial Bus

# 7 WG Working Group
Chapter 2 Deployment Scenarios O-RAN Working Group 7’s deployment scenario specification [1] shows the split architecture as below. The Fronthaul Gateway (FHGW) in this case aggregates multiple O-RUs to a single location consisting of O- DUs. The fronthaul gateway provides protocol translation, packet switching and aggregation capabilities.

# 7 Figure 1: Base Station with Split Architecture
This document describes scenarios where the FHGW provides protocol translation in addition to the switching and aggregation capabilities.

# 10 2.1.1 Deployment Scenario -1
The FHGW (Fronthaul Gateway) may be placed between the O-DU and RU (Radio Unit) with the following

# 12 O-RAN specified interfaces:
- The interface between O-DU and FHGW is Open Fronthaul (Option 7-2x).
- The interface between FHGW and RU is an LLS option specified by O-RAN.
- The interface between FHGW and RU may not support Open Fronthaul (Option 7-2x).
Figure 2 below depicts the deployment of the FHGW using O-RAN specified interfaces. Figure 2: Deployment of O-DU and RU using FHGW The Low PHY function in the fronthaul gateway converts the CPRI/low level split interface between the RU and Open Fronthaul (Option 7-2x). The fronthaul gateway is deployed near the RU physically and gets connected to the DU using a packet-based network. The FHGW gateway has radio processing capabilities to do the protocol translation between CPRI/low level split interface and Open Fronthaul (Option 7-2x) and does the translation for the management plane also. The non-O-RAN-RU along with FHGW appears as a single/multiple O-RU(s) to the O-DU. The RUs and O-RUs are directly connected to the FHGW. The O-DUs are connected to FHGW over a network. The network between FHGW and O-DU could be a point-to-point, mesh or a ring topology. In some cases, the FHGWs provide transport to non-fronthaul traffic also, namely, midhaul, backhaul or other traffic. So FHGW may have non-fronthaul ethernet interfaces also.

# 16 2.1.1.1 Point to point network
Figure 3: Point to point topology for Fronthaul Gateway Each fronthaul gateway gets connected to the O-DUs directly. These connections might be direct physical connections or through a packet network. When FHGWs connect through other network elements to the O-

# 3 DUs, they form a mesh network.

# 4 2.1.1.2 Ring network

# 6 Figure 4: Ring topology for Fronthaul Gateway
FHGWs form a ring topology and get connected to the O-DUs. In this case, the Fronthaul Gateways need two interfaces for connectivity towards the O-DUs

# 9 2.1.2 Low PHY
The Low PHY module in fronthaul gateway implements the below functionalities.

# 11 1) FFT/IFFT (Lower-PHY DL/UL)

# 12 2) PRACH detection (Lower-PHY UL)

# 13 3) Handling of C-Plane/M-plane messages

# 14 4) Timing and synchronization of RU

# 15 5) eCPRI framing/de-framing and switching

# 16 6) CPRI framing/de-framing and switching

# 17 7) CPRI to eCPRI conversion

# 18 8) I/Q compression on eCPRI and CPRI links
Doing LowPHY functionality on the FHGWs and converting the low-level split interface to O-RAN fronthaul interface enables connecting legacy RUs to O-DUs. This enables brownfield deployments to leverage the benefits of O-RAN based disaggregated and open networks.

# 23 2.1.3 Timing
The packet based fronthaul network is compliant with the timing requirements described by WG4 CUS specification [2]. The packet-based network uses SyncE and PTP to provide frequency, phase and Time-of- Day to necessary endpoints. It can derive these parameters from satellite-based sources also. The legacy RUs derive frequency and phase through the CPRI/low level split interface connected to the fronthaul gateway. CPRI/low level split interface transports frequency and phase through mechanisms difference from SyncE and PTP. The scheme is specified in the CPRI v7.0 [4] specification and is not vendor specific.

# 9 3.1 FHGW 7-2→8 Hardware Architecture
This section describes the hardware architecture of a fronthaul gateway which supports legacy interfaces towards RUs and provides protocol translation to enable them to connect to O-DUs. In addition to that Fronthaul Gateway provides transportation capabilities for O-RAN fronthaul traffic as well as other types of traffic.

# 14 3.1.1 FHGW Hardware Architecture Diagram
7-2→8

# 16 Figure 5: Fronthaul Gateway Hardware Architecture Diagram

# 8 Network Processing Unit
The network processing unit provides the packet transport functions of the FHGW.

# 10 Radio Signal Processor/Accelerator
Radio Signal processor/Accelerator does the protocol translation capabilities required to translate from the low-level split-8 to O-RAN fronthaul interface (Split 7-2). The low-level split interfaces to connect to legacy RUs are connected to Radio Signal Processer/Accelerator. This module implements the Low PHY capabilities mentioned in section 2.1.2. The Radio signal processor can be implemented using a FPGA, DSP engine or ASICs.

# 17 CPU
CPU hosts the network operating system (NOS) which controls the transport capabilities and the Radio software which controls the radio signal processor.

# 20 Memory
DDR4 Memory is used to store the runtime data and software for the NOS and Radio software.

# 22 Storage
Non-volatile storage to store operating system, application software, firmware, operational status of Fronthaul Gateway. This could be implemented using Flash or SSD.

# 25 Timing Components
The timing module in the FHGW board is used to implement IEEE 1588 PTP and Synchronous Ethernet functionalities. This module recovers timing and provides synchronization to other modules. The module consists of below key components

# 29 1. GNSS

# 30 2. OCXO

# 31 3. DPLL

# 32 4. Servo
GNSS - Global Navigation Satellite System provides Time of the Day and Synchronization pulse (PPS) to the timing module to recover the clock and phase. This will be the primary reference clock (PRC) when selected as source of timing to the timing module OCXO - Oven controlled crystal oscillator provides the stable reference clock to the timing module with reference to which the PTP clock is generated. This clock also is used to validate the other recovered clocks are within the required PPM offset or not DPLL - Digital Phase lock loop circuit is used to generate the PTP clock steered by the servo algorithm. This ensures that the generated clock meets the required specifications in terms of Jitter, Phase alignment and meet the necessary masks of the ITU-T specs. This component also regenerates the required local clocks from the SyncE recovered clocks from the Phys or from the generated PTP clock or GNSS clock Servo - This is a SW component running in the CPU or any programmable engine which analyses the timestamps from the ethernet packets, performs appropriate filtering and steers the DPLL to generate the PTP clock and Phase alignment of the clock to the primary clock source.

# 8 Ethernet PHY
This is an optional component to provide physical level ethernet connectivity. In some cases, the Network processing unit itself provides this capability and discrete ethernet PHYs are not required.

# 11 3.1.3 FHGW Interfaces
7-2→8

# 12 Legacy Low-Level Split Interfaces
These interfaces are used to connect to legacy/brownfield RUs. They use protocols other than O-RAN fronthaul (Split 7-2) interface. They carry time domain Radio signals. CPRI is a typical split-8 protocol used by legacy RUs.

# 16 PCIe Interface
Support for PCIe v3 and later interface. The bandwidth depends on the use cases. It is as the control plane interface for NPUs and Radio signal processors through which the CPU controls and maintains them.

# 19 Timing Interfaces
As mentioned earlier, the timing modules provide reference timing signals to various components of the Fronthaul Gateway system. The interfaces used to provide the signals to NPU, and Radio signal processor should be specified

# 23 Ethernet Interfaces
Ethernet interfaces are used to connect to O-RUs, O-DUs and other elements in the transport network. Apart from the external interfaces, ethernet is used between the NPU and Radio signal processing unit. The bandwidth of these interfaces depends on specific use cases.

# 27 3.2 Disaggregation and Modularity Requirements
The Fronthaul gateway is implemented by combining transport and radio functions to provide both capabilities. The FHGW shall be modular enough for these two functions to be implemented separately – potentially by different vendors. This enables experts in transport and radio areas to come together and create FHGWs with flexible and programmable radio plane. In order to enable that the interfaces between transport and radio functions should be clearly defined. Below is the list of such internal interfaces. This modularity enables multiple instances of those radio functions to be present in the FHGW. This enables increasing the scale of radio processing in the FHGW as well as integrating different Radio processing capabilities from the same different implementors.

# 7 2. Timing interface for Radio signal processor

# 8 3. Interrupt interfaces of the radio signal processor
4. Control plane access to the radio signal processor for control, maintenance and firmware management

# 3 3.3.1 FHGW Interface Requirements
7-2→8

# 4 Table 3: FHGW7-2→8 Interface Requirements
Parameter Requirement Description Priority FHGW shall support Ethernet interfaces with speeds O-RAN FH from 10G to 25G. These interfaces will support Interfaces transport of Fronthaul haul traffic compliant to O- RAN 7-2x spec: Control, User, and Synchronization O-RAN Plane Technical Specification of O-RAN: O-RAN- Fronthaul WG4.CUS.0 [2] High interfaces Below are the requirements: 6x 10G eCPRI interfaces (each port shall support 2 carriers of 20MHz i.e. total of 40MHz) 3x 25/10G eCPRI interfaces (each port shall support 1 carrier of 100MHz) FHGW shall support ethernet interfaces with speeds Transport from 10G to 100G. These could act as O-RAN interfaces fronthaul interfaces as well. Transport Below are the requirements: High interfaces 4x25G/10G interfaces 2x10G interfaces 2x1G interfaces Timing IEEE 1588v2 and SyncE on all ethernet interfaces. In Timing Interfaces High Interfaces addition, it shall/may support GNSS connectivity. FHGW shall support interfaces to connect to CPRI interfaces legacy/brownfield RUs. with rates from 2 to 6x 10G legacy and non-legacy CPRI interfaces to 8 support 1 carrier of 20MHz (capability to re-configure Low Level Split legacy and non-legacy CPRI interfaces to eCPRI High interfaces interfaces) 3x 10G legacy and non-legacy CPRI interfaces to support 2 carriers of 20MHz i.e. total 40MHz (capability to re-configure legacy and non-legacy CPRI interfaces to eCPRI interfaces) Radio processor’s parameters shall be able to be Programmability Programmable changed. FHGW shall be able to re-program radio High Radio processor processing function logic. Adaptability of The Radio processor’s firmware shall be Adaptability High Radio processor reprogrammable in the field.

# 3 Below diagram summarises the requirement given above

# 5 Figure 7: FHGW7-2→8 Interface requirements

# 6 3.3.2 FHGW : Mechanical Thermal and Power Requirements
7-2→8 ,

# 7 Table 4: FHGW7-2→8: Mechanical, Thermal and Power Requirements
Parameter Requirement Description Priority Power Supply -48V DC High Temperature -20°C to +55°C High

# 8 3.4 Timing Requirements
CPRI/Low Level Interface carries Radio data using a constant stream of data. Frequency and Phase are carried from the Fronthaul Gateway to the RUs using the delimiters/control characters on this bit stream. The interval of these control characters depicts the frequency, and the exact positioning of these characters carry phase information. Please refer to the CPRI specification [4] for more details. The Fronthaul Gateway should derive these parameters from the O-DUs using IEEE 1588 PTP and SyncE or should be in sync with the O-DUs using IEEE 1588 PTP and SyncE. Then, Fronthaul Gateway should translate the above to the frequency and placement of control characters on the CPRI/Low level split interface. This way, RUs can be synchronised to the rest of the network.

# 19 3.5 Security Requirements
Fronthaul gateway merges the transport and radio functions to provide protocol translation capabilities and network capabilities. The software and firmware for transport and radio capabilities may be implemented by different vendors. So, it is important to the verify authenticity of the software and firmware used in this fronthaul gateway. The Fronthaul gateway shall support secure storage of keys and certificates in a hardware chip and will create a secure boot and operating environment where the software and firmware loaded in it are securely signed. Chapter 4 Hardware Reference Design This chapter describes one example of white box hardware reference design for the fronthaul gateway when translating split option 7-2x→8 and vice versa.

# 4 4.1 FHGW 7-2→8 Hardware Reference Design
This section describes the design of a fronthaul gateway which supports both legacy interfaces (i.e., CPRI) towards RUs and NR eCPRI interfaces toward O-RUs. When connecting to legacy RUs, it provides protocol translation to enable them to be operating with O-DUs. In addition, the FHGW provides transport capabilities for O-RAN fronthaul traffic as well as other types of traffic.

# 9 4.2 FHGW 7-2→8 High Level Functional Block Diagram
The high-level architecture of a generic FHGW with L× Ethernet/eCPRI connections toward the O-DU, N× CPRI links toward legacy RU/RRHs, M× Ethernet/eCPRI connections toward O-RUs is shown in Figure 8. It’s worth mentioning that some or all of the NxCPRI interfaces are capable of supporting O- RAN/eCPRI fronthaul interfaces through dynamic reconfiguration. Note that depending on the number of the links, the specs and number of the CPU, NPU and FPGAs used in this hardware reference design may change. Figure 8: High-level Functional Block Diagram of the FHGW

# 7 Table 5: CPU Features
Item Name Description Minimum number of Cores 4-8 Minimum number of Threads 8 Base Clock Frequency 1.60-1.70 GHZ Max Turbo Frequency 1.70-2.20 GHz Minimum L2 Cache 6-16 MB Total Power Dissipation 17 – 25 W Memory Types DDR4-2666 (PC4-21300) Maximum number of Memory Channels 2

# 9 4.3.2 Memory and Storage for CPU

# 10 Table 6: Memory and Storage Requirements
Item Name Description Memory 8 GB DDR4 memory Storage 32 GB eMMC/SSD storage

# 11 4.3.3 Network Processing Unit (NPU)
The network processing unit in the FHGW handles different types of traffic, terminates Ethernet connections, and interfaces with the radio signal processing unit in order to transport data between the O-DU and legacy RUs following protocol translation in radio signal processor. The example reference design uses an NPU with the following capabilities.

# 6 1) FFT/IFFT (Lower-PHY DL/UL)

# 7 2) PRACH detection (Lower-PHY UL)

# 8 3) Handling of C-Plane/M-plane messages

# 9 4) Timing and synchronization of RU

# 10 5) eCPRI framing/de-framing and switching

# 11 6) CPRI framing/de-framing and switching

# 12 7) CPRI to eCPRI conversion

# 13 8) I/Q compression on eCPRI and CPRI links

#### 4.3.4.1 Radio signal processor – FPGA reference model 1
The physical resources (LUT, BRAM, URAM, DSP48, etc.) required on the FPGA depends on the number, speed and type of the legacy interfaces for which protocol conversion are performed. Figure 8 shows the functional block diagram of the FHGW reference design. Downlink Downlink Buffer (1) Buffer (2) Nx CPRI Output eCPRI De- Delay with CPRI AXI Stream I/Q De- IFFT AxC I/Q Framer/ AxC Framer/ FIFOs Compression CP Insertion Distribution Compression Interface Mapping Interface eCPRI Input/ Output FFT eCPRI AXI Stream Delay with I/Q CP Removal AxC I/Q De- CPRI De- Framer/ AxC Framer/ Interface FIFOs Mapping Compression PRACH Aggregation Compression Interface Filtering Nx CPRI Input Uplink Uplink Buffer (1) Buffer (2)

# 20 FPGA (Radio Signal Processor)
Figure 9: Radio Signal Processing Block Diagram – FPGA Model-1

#### 4.3.4.2 Radio signal processor – FPGA reference model 2
Figure 10 shows the top-level architecture for a reference radio signal processor. A brief description of each block is also included below. Figure 10: Radio Signal Processing Block Diagram – FPGA Model-2

# 3 4.3.4.2.1 FPGA Resource Estimation
Based on the operator requirements, we define the external connections/ports and interfaces to FHGW as shown in Figure 10. It is based on a reference implementation of a radio signal processor using different number of AxC processing capability. The resource estimation below only considers the functionality required to provide legacy RU, or CPRI radio support. The implementation is based on the architecture depicted in Figure 10. Considering the requirements summarized in Table 2, the number of AxCs is 12 of 20MHz LTE signals. Therefore, the O-RAN fronthaul traffic by assuming split 7.2, can be calculated as follows ORAN traffic = [12 (AxCs) x 14 (symbols) x 1200 (REs) x 32 (bisIQ) ] / 1 ms + C/S/M-plane + Pkt_header overhead ~ 6.5 Gbps On the Ethernet link connecting to NPU or O-DU direction, one 10GE link is sufficient to accommodate the traffic. However, in our example implementation, one 25GE link is still used for scalability when more AxCs are required. Using the same calculation, one 25G link can accommodate 36 AxCs or 20MHz LTE signal using split 7.2. Table 10 shows the estimated resource utilization (logic ALMs, DSP blocks, RAM blocks, ALUTs) for the implementation architecture from Figure 3 with respect to 12 AxCs of 20MHz signal. Table 10: Estimated FPGA Resource Allocation for the Designated Functions - 2 Logic DSP Registers RAM ALUTs comments (ALMs) Blocks Blocks (M20 K) 25GE (soft 7,306 1 17,021 24 9,732 some FPGA devices implement the MAC) MAC in hard logic, therefore eliminating the usage for soft MAC eCPRI IP 4,511 0 10,184 25 5,918 The eCPRI and O-RAN IP O-RAN IP with 35,352 0 78,411 15 36,527 implement the eCPRI (de)framer and (De)compression O-RAN (de)mapper separately. The eCPRI and O-RAN IP are dimensioned for 25GE link. More instances are needed only if more 25GE links are required. Please refer to the throughput calculation above in this subsection YHP+CAM( tenrehtE PI IRPCe PI NAR-O PRACH AxC PRACH buffer Channelizer HSC shift* + FFT Basic Frame CPRI IQ UL buffer CP removal scheduler de-MUX deMapper +FFT CPRI interface IP Basic iFFT iFFT + CP CPRI IQ FDV buffer Frame scheduler insertion Mapper MUX retibrA knilpU *HSC shift: half sub-carrier shift, only used for LTE system PRACH IP Wrapper Nx CPRI IQ deMapper Ethernet link to NPU Radio frame sync CPRI Nx CPRI to interface RU IP CPRI IQ Mapper Nx Radio signal processing datapath DL iFFT/CP 3,287 21 9,540 24 3,625 This group of blocks implement DL FDV 6,518 0 23,550 144 2,616 the Low PHY signal processing in buffering DL direction. An FDV buffer is iFFT scheduler 68 0 237 0 32 included to compensate the delay Basic Frame 1,338 0 4,358 90 2,118 variations between FHGW and O- Mux DU. Scale in general by the number of AxCs. The reference implementation consists of processing engines where each engine can process multiple AxCs CPRI IP 21,631 0 46,717 108 26,991 Scale by the number of CPRI wrapper (9 interfaces instances) Basic frame de- 2,025 0 6,177 90 2,160 This group of blocks implement the mux low PHY signal processing in uplink UL FFT/CP 3,910 27 10,723 11 4,507 including PRACH. Uplink arbiter 649 0 2,102 40 452 Scale in general by the number of FFT scheduler 87 0 251 0 219 AxCs. The reference implementation PRACH IP 11,667 53 25,000 208 16,667 consists of processing engines where wrapper each engine can process multiple AxCs Total 98,347 102 234,271 779 111,563 1x 25GE link, 9x CPRI links, 12 AxCs of 20MHz

# 19 FPGA.
Figure 11: Internal Ethernet Links between NPU and FPGA The management-plane traffic from the FPGA towards the radio control and management software running on the CPU also traverses through these Ethernet interfaces. The NPU will switch/route these packets towards the radio control and management software.

# 6 4.4.2 Timing and Synchronization
The timing and synchronization architecture of FHGW looks like below. 7-2→8

# 9 Figure 12: Timing Circuitry
The timing bus provides the following signals to the NPU and the FPGA 1. A reference clock signal to the NPU and FPGA at predetermined frequency from PTP domain. 2. A One-Pulse per Second (PPS) reference signal where the transition from low to high as sampled by the clock is the second’s marker 3. A lower speed bus carrying the seconds value of Time of Day. The 48 bits of seconds value is provided serially on this signal.

# 17 4.4.3 Security
Fronthaul gateway shall include latest Trusted Platform Module (TPM) – 2.0 or greater – to store keys and certificates and to authenticate digitally signed software and firmware modules. This enables creating a secure environment where non-secure software or firmware cannot be loaded on the fronthaul gateway.

# 7 Figure 13: PCIe Interface to FPGA

### 4.4.5 Example Pinout of a Radio Signal Processor FPGA

# 9 Table 11: Example Pinout of the FPGA
Port Direction Description DEV_TYP[1:0] input Device type DEV_INST[1:0] input Device instance CLK_100M_FPGA_P input Free running 100MHz FPGA clock CLK_100M_FPGA_N FPGA_RST_L input Main Hard Reset (active low) INTERRUPT_L input Main Interrupt (active low) ETH_NPU_TX[11:0]_P output Ethernet Transmit towards the NPU ETH_NPU_TX[11:0]_N ETH_NPU_RX[11:0]_P input Ethernet Receive from the NPU ETH_NPU_RX[11:0]_N SFP_TX[11:0]_P output CPRI 3-8 Transmit SFP_TX[11:0]_N SFP_RX[11:0]_P input CPRI 3-8 Receive SFP_RX[11:0]_N ETH_REF_[3:1]_156P25M_CLK_P input Ethernet reference clocks (156.25MHz) ETH_REF_[3:1]_156P25M_CLK_N CPRI_REF[4:1]_245P76M_CLK_P input CPRI reference clocks (245.76MHz) CPRI_REF[4:1]_245P76M_CLK_N CPRI_REF4_DUP_245P76M_CLK_P CPRI_REF4_DUP_245P76M_CLK_N SFP[13:0]_LOS input SFP Loss of signal indication PCIE_TX0_P output PCIe x1 Gen 2.0 Transmit PCIE_TX0_N PCIE_RX0_P input PCIe x1 Gen 2.0 Receive PCIE_RX0_N PCIE_REF_100M_CLK_P input PCIe FT Reference clock (100MHz) PCIE_REF_100M_CLK_N DFPGA_PCIE_RST_L input PCIe reset (active high) TOD_DFPGA_1PPS input One pulse per second signal TOD_250M_CLK_P input 1588 clock (250MHz) TOD_250M_CLK_N TOD_IN input Time Of Day (seconds) value TOD_CLKI input 100Hz clock input used to qualify the Time-of-Day value (TOD_IN)

# 11 Figure 14: Multi-FPGA Architecture

# 12 4.6 External Interface Ports on the FHGW 7-2→8
This section describes the external interface ports that are used for the operation of the FHGW . 7-2→8 a. Hardware Requirements The following table shows the external ports towards the RU/RRHs provided by FHGW from the 7-2→8 radio signal processor

# 4 Table 12: External Legacy Port List
Port Name Feature Description CPRI Fronthaul m x 10 Gbps SFP+ transceiver interfaces interface The ports on connected to NPU directly or through Ethernet PHY device(s)

# 6 Table 13: External Ethernet Port List
Port Name Feature Description Ethernet interfaces n x 1 Gbps SFP+ transceiver interfaces p x 10 Gbps SFP+ transceiver interfaces q x 25 Gbps SFP+ transceiver interfaces r x 100 Gbps QSP28 transceiver interfaces b. Hardware Design
- QSFP28 case and connector: The QSFP28 case and connector are standard and off-the-shelf
components
- SFP+ case and connector: The SFP+ case and connector are standard and off-the-shelf components


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt6-v02.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt6.0-v02.00 Technical Specification Hardware Reference Design Specification for Indoor Pico Cell"
---

# 11 Release x.y.z
where: x the first digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc. (the initial approved document will have x=01). y the second digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been incorporated in the document. z the third digit included only in working versions of the document indicating incremental changes during the editing process. This variable is for internal WG7 use only. The present document specifies system requirements and high-level architecture for the Indoor Pico Cell Hardware Reference Design with Fronthaul Split Option 6 deployment scenario as specified in the Deployment Scenarios and Base Station Classes document [1].

# 21 1.2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this text, constitute provisions of the present document. [1] ORAN-WG7.DSC.0-V01.00 Technical Specification, Deployment Scenarios and Base Station Classes for

# 25 White Box Hardware
[2] 3GPP TR 21.905: Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications [3] 3GPP TR 38.104: NR; Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception [4] 3GPP TR 38.913: Study on Scenarios and Requirements for Next Generation Access Technologies [5] 3GPP TS 38.401: NG-RAN; Architecture description [6] ORAN-WG7.IPC.HAR-v01.00 Technical Specification: O-RAN Indoor Pico Cell Hardware Architecture and Requirement Specification [7] SCF 222.10.03: 5G FAPI PHY API Specification [8] SCF 082.09.05: nFAPI and FAPI Specifications [9] SCF 223.10.02: RF and Digital Front End Control API Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. [10] SCF 224.10.01: 5G FAPI Network Monitor Mode API [11] SCF 225.2.0: 5G nFAPI Specifications https://scf.io/en/documents/225_5G_nFAPI_specifications.php

# 3 1.3 Definitions and Abbreviations

# 4 1.3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [2]. For the base station classes of Pico, Micro and Macro, the definitions are given in 3GPP TR 38.104 [3].

# 10 Carrier Frequency: Center frequency of the cell.
F1 interface: The open interface between O-CU and O-DU defined by 3GPP TS 38.473. Integrated architecture: In the integrated architecture, the O-RU and O-DU are implemented on one platform. Each O-RU and RF front end is associated with one O-DU. They are then aggregated to O-CU and connected by F1 interface. Split architecture: The O-RU and O-DU are physically separated from one another in this architecture. A switch may aggregate multiple O-RUs to one O-DU. O-DU, switch and O-RUs are connected by the fronthaul interface. Transmission Reception Point (TRxP): Antenna array with one or more antenna elements available to the network located at a specific geographical location for a specific area.

# 21 1.3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in [2] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, as in [2].

# 26 3GPP Third Generation Partnership Project

# 27 5G Fifth-Generation Mobile Communications

# 28 ADC Analog to Digital Converter

# 29 ASIC Application Specific Integrated Circuit

# 30 BS Base Station

# 31 CFR Crest Factor Reduction

# 32 CISPR Comité International Spécial des Perturbations Radioélectriques

# 33 CU Centralized Unit as defined by 3GPP

# 34 DAC Digital to Analog Converter

# 35 DDC Digital Down Conversion

# 36 DDR Double Data Rate

# 37 DL Downlink

# 38 DPD Digital Pre-Distortion
Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V.

# 3 DU Distributed Unit as defined by 3GPP

# 4 DUC Digital Up Conversion

# 5 ECC Error-Correcting Code

# 6 FAPI Functional Application Platform Interface

# 7 FCC Federal Communications Commission

# 8 FDD Frequency Division Duplex

# 9 FFT Fast Fourier Transform

# 10 FH Fronthaul

# 11 FHGW Fronthaul Gateway

# 12 FPGA Field Programmable Gate Array

# 13 GbE Gigabit Ethernet

# 14 GMC Grand Master Clock

# 15 GNSS Global Navigation Satellite System

# 16 GPS Global Positioning System

# 17 HSUART High-Speed Universal Asynchronous Receiver/Transmitter

# 18 IEEE Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers

# 19 IMC Integrated Memory Controller

# 20 I/O Input/Output

# 21 JTAG Joint Test Action Group

# 22 L2 Layer 2

# 23 L3 Layer 3

# 24 LDPC Low-Density Parity-Check

# 25 LTE Long Term Evolution

# 26 LRDIMM Load-Reduced Dual In-Line Memory Module

# 27 MAC Media Access Control

# 28 MIMO Multiple Input Multiple Output

# 29 MCP Multi-Chip Package

# 30 MU-MIMO Multiple User MIMO
nFAPI network Functional Application Platform Interface

# 32 NFV Network Function Virtualization

# 33 NMEA National Marine Electronics Association

# 34 NPU Network Processing Unit

# 35 NR New Radio

# 36 O-CU O-RAN Centralized Unit as defined by O-RAN
O-DU A specific O-RAN Distributed Unit having fronthaul split option 6 O-RU A specific O-RAN Radio Unit having fronthaul split option 6

# 39 PCIe Peripheral Component Interface Express

# 40 PCH Platform Controller Hub

# 41 PDCP Packet Data Convergence Protocol

# 42 PHY Physical layer

# 43 PLL Phase Locked Loop

# 44 PMBus Power Management Bus
Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V.

# 3 RAN Radio Access Network

# 4 RDIMM Registered Dual In-Line Memory Module

# 5 RFFE Radio Frequency Front End

# 6 RGMII Reduced Gigabit Media-Independent Interface

# 7 RF Radio Frequency

# 8 RFFE RF Front End

# 9 RoHS Restriction of Hazardous Substances

# 10 RU Radio Unit as defined by 3GPP

# 11 RX Receiver

# 12 SFP Small Form-factor Pluggable

# 13 SFP+ Small Form-factor Pluggable Transceiver

# 14 SOC System On Chip

# 15 SPI Serial Peripheral Interface

# 16 TDP Thermal Design Power

# 17 TR Technical Report

# 18 TS Technical Specification

# 19 TX Transmitter

# 20 UART Universal Asynchronous Receiver/Transmitter

# 21 UL Uplink

# 22 USB Universal Serial Bus

# 23 WG Working Group
Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Chapter 2 Hardware Reference Design

# 17 2.2 O-DU Hardware Reference Design
The terms “O-DU ” and “O-RU ” are used here for O-DU and O-RU that use split option 6. O-DU

# 6 6 6
hardware systems specified in this document meet the computing, power and environmental requirements of the indoor picocell deployment scenario configuration. The O-DU hardware includes the chassis platform, mother board, peripheral devices and cooling devices. The mother board contains processing unit, memory, the internal I/O interfaces, and external connection ports. The front haul and back haul interface are used to carry the traffic between O-DU and O-RU as

# 6 6
well as O-CU and O-DU . The O-DU white box is the hardware platform that performs MAC functions while PHY is done in the O-RU . The O-DU design may also provide an interface for hardware accelerator(s) if that

# 6 6
option is preferred. However, this design does not specify accelerator hardware. Other hardware functional components include storage for software, debugging interfaces, and board management controller. The O-DU designer will make decisions based on the specific needs of the implementation. Note that the O-DU HW reference design is also reusable for O-CU and integrated O-CU/ O-DU .

# 6 6

# 35 2.2.1 O-DU High-Level Functional Block Diagram
O-DU and O-RU are connected via nFAPI interfaces over fiber/ethernet transport. With an option

# 6 6

# 6 MAC/PHY fronthaul split, the O-RU includes complete physical layer processing functions and Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V.
the O-DU handles higher layer processing functions. The O-DU hardware architecture is shown in

# 6 6
Error! Reference source not found.. Note that O-DU does not require an accelerator module since physical layer functions are handled by O-RU 6.

# 5 Figure 2-1 O-DU6 Architecture Diagram

# 7 2.2.2 O-DU Hardware Components
The sections below describe the functionality, interface and performance for each respective block of the O-DU . As device integration is an ongoing activity, chip boundaries may be fluid and some functionalities may move from one block to another or entire functionalities may be absorbed into other blocks. The sections below describe the functional blocks independent of which physical device they may reside in.

# 13 2.2.2.1 Digital Processing Unit
a. Digital Processing Unit Requirement General purpose processor performance and other related information are listed in Table 2-1.

# 17 Table 2-1: Processor Feature List
Item Name Description # of Cores 16 # of Threads 32 Base Frequency 2.20 GHZ Max Turbo Frequency 3.00 GHz Cache 22 MB TDP 100W Max Memory Size (dependent on memory 512 GB type) Memory Types DDR4 Max # of Memory Channels 4

# 19 Interfaces
Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. The interface specification in main board are as follows:

# 4 Table 2-2: Memory Channel Feature List
Item Name Description Memory Types DDR4 # of Memory Channels 4 ECC LRDIMM Up to 512GB ECC RDIMM Up to 256GB Memory Speed 2666/2400/2133MHz DIMM Sizes 128GB, 64GB, 32GB, 16GB Memory Voltage 1.2 V

# 6  PCIe
PCIe Gen 3 is supported by the processor. There are a total of 32 PCIe lanes with 128 Gb/s bandwidth. The 32 PCIe lanes can be divided into two x16 slots by using a riser card.

# 9  Ethernet
The system should be capable to offer aggregated 48 Gb/s Ethernet bandwidth. When higher Ethernet bandwidth is required, an Ethernet card can be installed in one of the PCIe slots. b. Digital Processing Unit Design The digital processing unit is a system-on-a-chip (SOC) device which is a 64-bit, multi-core server class processor. This SoC includes an integrated Platform Controller Hub (PCH), integrated high- speed I/O, Integrated Memory Controllers (IMC), and four integrated 10 Gigabit Ethernet ports. The SOC supports 512-bit wide vector processing instruction set. It also supports hardware virtualization to enable dynamic provisioning of services as communication service providers extend network function virtualization (NFV). Error! Reference source not found. shows the major functional blocks of the digital processing unit. Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V.

# 4 2.2.2.2 Hardware Accelerator
Hardware accelerators may be used in O-DU to offload computationally intensive functions and to optimize the performance under varying traffic and loading conditions. The acceleration functional requirements and implementation are system designer’s choice; however, the O-DU shall meet the minimum system performance requirements under various loading and deployment conditions. In most cases, an FPGA or ASIC based PCIe card can be used to optimize the system performance. Examples for O-DU could be security, network interface controller, and general packet acceleration. Specific accelerator designs are not called out in this specification.

# 13 2.2.3 Synchronization and Timing

# 14 2.2.3.1 Synchronization and Timing Design 1
The timing synchronization of O-DU is achieved by utilizing IEEE1588 via Ethernet ports. The Network Interface Controllers (NIC) that are used for fronthaul and backhaul support the IEEE1588 protocol. a. Hardware Requirements The O-DU shall support at least one of following timing synchronization methods: 1. Ethernet based IEEE1588

# 23 2. GNSS based timing synchronization.
b. Hardware Design Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Depending on the timing distribution topologies used, the O-DU system clock is able to synchronize with the Grand Master Clock (GMC) using IEEE1588 via either the fronthaul NIC or backhaul NIC, or synchronizing timing using Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS). In the case of IEEE1588, the Physical Hardware Clock (PHC) within the NIC is synchronized with the GMC first, then the O-DU system clock is synchronized with the PHC. The O-DU is also capable

# 6 6
to provide clock to the O-RU via fronthaul if needed. When GNSS is available to O-DU , it is able

# 6 6
to synchronize the system clock to Coordinated Universal Time (UTC). Figure 2-3 outlines the O-

# 8 DU timing synchronization mechanisms.

# 12 Figure 2-3 O-DU6 Timing Synchronization

# 15 2.2.4 External Interface Ports
a. Hardware Requirements Table 2-3 External Port List 2-3 shows the external ports or slots that the system provides.

# 18 Table 2-3 External Port List
Port Name Feature Description 19 Ethernet Octave Gigabit Ethernet LAN connectors Dual 10GbE Base-T Ethernet connectors Dual 10GbE SFP + Fiber Ethernet connectors USB 2 USB 3.0 ports Serial Port 1 COM port via RJ45 Antenna port 1 SMA connector for GNSS b. Hardware Design The digital processing unit is a SOC device which provides all the external ports described in the hardware requirement section. The system includes 2 USB 3.0 ports, and the serial RS232 port that Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. can be used for Console Redirection, e.g. Out-of-Band Management/Windows Emergency Management Services (EMS). There are a total of four 10G Ethernet ports in system, among them are two RJ45 10GbE and two 10G SFP+ ports. The system also provides a RF interface to connect

# 4 GNSS antenna.

# 6 2.2.5 Mechanical

# 8  Mother Board
The mechanical layout of the mother board in Figure 2-4 shows the location of major components and interface ports, and the dimension of the board. Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V.

# 4  Chassis
The 1U rack mount chassis contains the layout of the power supply, SSD and fans. The chassis dimension is shown in Figure 2-5. Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V.

# 4  Cooling
The system has 4x 40x28mm PWM fans for cooling. Up to 6 fans can be installed if needed.

# 6 2.2.6 Power Unit
In a fully loaded system with two PCIe slots populated with 75W each, the system power consumption should be less than 400W. The total system power shall be kept to less than 80% of the power supply capacity. a. Hardware Requirements The power is provided by 500W High-Efficiency power supply with PMBus 1.2. The power support input and output power rails are listed below.

# 15 AC Input: 100-240V, 50-60Hz, 6.6A max

# 16 DC Output: +3.3V: 12A

# 17 +5V: 15A

# 18 +5V standby: 3A

# 19 +12V: 41A

# 20 -12V: 0.2A
b. Hardware Design The O-DU chassis includes one 500W power supply unit. The power supply unit is auto-switching capable, which enables it to automatically sense and operate at a 100v to 240v input voltage. The power supply unit features are listed in Table 2-4. Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V.

# 3 2.2.7 Thermal
Active cooling with up to 6 fans integrated in chassis.

# 5 2.2.8 Environmental and Regulations
The O-DU hardware system is RoHS Compliant. The power supply unit is EMC FCC/CISPR Class B compliant. Table 2-5 lists the environmental related features and parameters.

# 9 Table 2-5 Environmental Features
Features Description Operating Temperature -5°C to 55°C Non-operating Temperature -40°C to 70°C (-40°F to 158°F) Operating Relative Humidity 8% to 90% (non-condensing) Non-operating Relative Humidity 5% to 95% (non-condensing)

# 13 2.3 O-RU 6 Hardware Reference Design
This section provides a hardware reference design for O-RU , that is an O-RU built using the MAC/PHY split and interfaces defined in the Small Cell Forum. See references [7], [8], [9], [10] and [11]. Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V.

# 6 6
by a specialized ASIC. O-RU can handle fiber or metallic ethernet transport interface ports.

# 8 Figure 2-6 General Block Diagram for O-RU6

# 10 2.3.2 O-RU Hardware Components
The generic hardware architecture for O-RU consists of three major parts: digital processing unit, RF processing unit and a timing unit as shown in Figure 2-7. In the next section there is a brief mapping of modules within these major blocks of O-RU .

# 16 Figure 2-7 O-RU6 Architecture Diagram
Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Dissimilar to option 7-2 or option 8, all L1 processing is performed by O-RU The processing unit 6. handles transport and interface processing as well as all L1 modem processing. The DPU in O-RU is composed of an NPU to terminate transport layer and a PHY ASIC for L1 processing. Figure 2- 8Error! Reference source not found. shows the major components used in O-RU . The digital processing unit handles transport/interface processing, complete PHY ( low and high PHY functions) modem processing, Digital Down Converter (DDC), Digital Up Converter (DUC),

# 8 Crest Factor Reduction (CFR) and Digital Pre-Distortion (DPD).
The RF processing unit is comprised of the transceiver block which is responsible for functions such as Analog to Digital Converter (ADC), Digital to Analog Converter (DAC) and mixer; an amplification block which contains Power Amplifier (PA)/ Low Noise Amplifier (LNA), etc; and antenna subsystem that captures and/or transmits radio electromagnetic waves. O-RU may use

# 14 Power over Ethernet (PoE) to simplify deployment complexity.
The Timing Unit may include Phase Locked Loop (PLL), local oscillator and timing synchronization circuitry.

# 20 Figure 2-8 O-RU6 Functional Module Diagram

# 23 2.3.3 O-RU Functional Module Description
Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Figure 2-9 Sub-6 GHz Indoor Pico O-RU6 Functional Modules (Split Option 6) Mapping the generic hardware architecture to this hardware reference design, the DPU is split to an NPU and PHY ASIC, with an internal interface using FAPI over a PCIe interface. Functional blocks shown in Figure 2-9 are discussed below.

# 9 2.3.3.1 Network Processing Unit (NPU)
The Network Processing Unit (NPU) for O-RU terminates the external nFAPI interfaces and provides the internal FAPI interface to the PHY ASIC.

# 12 2.3.3.1.1 Networking I/O
- Minimum I/O is a single 10GbE port that can be used with electrical or optical I/O

# 14 • Optionally, support can be added for • OAM / maintenance port (1GbE) connecting over RGMII to the NPU
- An additional 10GbE port for chaining or failover connectivity. By implication, the

# 17 NPU needs to support efficient local switch/routing functionality

# 19 Networking side connectivity is shown as below:
Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V.

# 4 Example SFP connectivity is shown below:

# 7 Figure 2-11 O-RU6 SFP Connectivity

# 10 2.3.3.1.2 Low-speed connectivity and boot
This picture shows typical low-speed I/O associated with the NPU Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V.

# 7 2.3.3.1.3 DDR
- Assuming a telecommunications-tuned Linux image and virtualization through
containerization, accommodate for 512Mbyte for hosting the Linux OS from DDR
- Buffering needs to be provided for FAPI messages, but this is expected to be limited to few
Mbyte (marginal) as well as debug / OAM logging functionality

# 12 • In aggregate, assume ~1Gbyte aggregate DDR dimensioning
- For bandwidth estimation, assume ~5Gbps of Ethernet throughput with 2 paths to/from the

# 14 DDR interface
- Receive / Transmit from / to Ethernet MAC to DDR
- Receive / Transmit from / to DDR to PCIe
Aggregate is ~10Gbps or 15Gbps with margin. Given a maximum utilization of the DDR interface of 50%, we require 30Gbps of raw memory throughput. A 1.6GTPS DDR memory controller with 32bits memory bus width provides 50Gbps throughput and is thus enough to support this use-case as well as additional bandwidth requirements for switch/routing functions to optional Ethernet ports. Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V.
- ECC is assumed to be a required for a telecom-grade application.

# 4 Figure 2-13 O-RU6 DDR

# 6 2.3.3.1.4 Processor subsystem
- The NPU needs to incorporate a processor subsystem that is capable of processing
networked FAPI messages and convert them to PCI messages. Dimensioning of the CPU is outside of the scope.

# 10 2.3.3.1.5 Modem I/O
- For bandwidth estimation, assume ~5Gbps of throughput. Adding 20% of signaling
overhead, this becomes ~6Gbps.
- Assuming PCIe gen3 operation, 2 lanes of PCIe @8Gbps provide sufficient overhead above
this bandwidth.

# 18 Figure 2-14 O-RU6 Modem I/O
Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V.

# 8 Figure 2-15 O-RU6 NPU Security

# 10 2.3.3.2 PHY Layer ASIC
The PHY Layer ASIC is an application specific integrated circuit that provides a highly integrated and power-efficient solution implementing the complete 5G-NR PHY layer. It includes variants for both sub-6 GHz (FR1) and mmWave (FR2) frequency ranges. These ASICs can be used to implement self-contained, all-in-one small cells, as well as Option 6 radio units (RU) for disaggregated RAN systems. In either case, the ASIC connects to a co-located network processing unit (NPU) via a PCIe interface. In the case of a self-contained small cell, the NPU hosts the full L2/L3 protocol stack (i.e., RLC, MAC, PDCP) which connects to the PHY via the 5G FAPI logical interface over PCIe. In the case of an Option 6 RU, the NPU terminates the 5G nFAPI fronthaul connection between the CU/DU and the RU and connects to the PHY via the aforementioned 5G

# 20 FAPI logical interface (over PCIe.)
Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V.

# 3 Figure 2-16 O-RU6 PHY ASIC block diagram
Figure above provides a high-level diagram of the functional blocks that make up the PHY ASIC. External interfaces, including PCIe, USB, HS-UART, and GPIOs, are shown on the left-hand side. There are two embedded general-purpose CPUs available as well as a power management subsystem. The most important block is the 5G-NR Modem Subsystem. Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V.

# 3 Figure 2-17 O-RU6 5G Modem Subsystem
Figure above depicts a block diagram of the Modem Subsystem within the ASIC, which is predominantly software defined, leveraging a number of embedded DSPs and CPUs which together implement the transmit and receive functionalities of the 5G modem. The modem also includes hardware accelerators for computationally intensive tasks such as FFTs, demapping, and LDPC encoding/decoding. The various functional blocks are interconnected via a network-on-chip (NOC). The modem subsystem also includes a digital front-end responsible for signal conditioning in both the transmit (downlink) and receive (uplink) directions.

# 13 2.3.3.3 RF Front End
The Radio Frequency Front End (RFFE) is made up of all components between the modem and antennas. These include RF transceivers, RF switches, filters, duplexers, power amplifiers, and low-noise amplifiers.

# 18 2.3.3.4 Power Management
The Power Management functional module controls the flow of electrical power to other parts of the O-RU . Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V.

# 3 O-RU timing synchronization sources include:
- Ethernet based IEEE1588

# 5 • Ethernet based Synchronous Ethernet
- Optional Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) based timing synchronization

# 8 Timing functionality is shown in the diagram below:
Digital Ethernet Processing Interface Unit Recovered Clock Timing Unit

# 1588 &
PPS 10MHz, PPS, NMEA (GPS) (optional) Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. yaD fo emiT tolS/emarF gnimiT RF Processing Unit FR ,CAD/CDA kcolC ecnerefeR O-CU/ O-DU / FHGW

# 10 Figure 2-18 Timing Modules
IEEE1588 time stamping can be done at the Ethernet PHY level (model 1 below) or at the Ethernet MAC/Network Processing Unit (NPU) level (model 2 below). Model 1 is expected to provide incremental precision.

# 18 2.3.4.2 Synchronization and Timing Design 1
Timing synchronization on Ethernet PHY based 1588 and Synchronous Ethernet received clock extraction support. Ethernet Network PHY Layer PHY Processing Unit ASIC PPS GPS Module Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. xum Clock Synth 10MHz SPP SPP rec_clk PPG3 kcolc PPG3 kcolc 3GPP_clk ovres O-CU/ O-DU / FHGW nmea

# 4 Notes:
- Either (depending on mux / input control) GPS 10MHz or Synchronous Ethernet recovered
output clock (ref_clk) are input to a clock synthesizer (fractional PLL) to generate the 38.4,

## 122.88 MHz (or similar) MHz reference clock (Frequency Synchronization)
- The PPS pulse from the GPS provides a mechanism to manage local 122.88 (or similar)
3GPP clock through use of a Software PLL (servo) in absence of GPS/Synchronous

# 10 Ethernet extracted reference frequency
- On top of the GPS PPS pulse, the GPS UART output provides time synchronization to a
universal clock through NMEA messages
- The mux in the system allows the Network Processing Unit to control which input is used as

# 14 PPS source (GPS module or Ethernet PHY)
- All dashed lines are indicating optionality – GPS support is optional for this system
- IEEE1588 provides both time synchronization and frequency synchronization of a local
122.88MHz clock through Ethernet time stamping such as supported in Layerscape devices. Synchronous Ethernet can be used in conjunction with this for local 3GPP clock generation.

# 20 2.3.4.3 Synchronization and Timing Design 2
Timing synchronization on Network Processing Unit based 1588 and Synchronous Ethernet received clock extraction support. Ethernet Network PHY Layer PHY Processing Unit ASIC PPS GPS Module Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. xum Clock Synth 10MHz SPP klc_cer PPG3 kcolc ovres SPP PPG3 kcolc O-CU/ O-DU / FHGW nmea

# 4 Notes:
- Either (depending on mux / input control) GPS 10MHz or Synchronous Ethernet recovered
output clock (ref_clk) are input to a clock synthesizer (fractional PLL) to generate the 38.4,

## 122.88 MHz (or similar) MHz reference clock (Frequency Synchronization)
- The PPS pulse from the GPS provides a mechanism to manage local 122.88 (or similar)
3GPP clock through use of a Software PLL (servo) in absence of GPS/Synchronous

# 10 Ethernet extracted reference frequency
- On top of the GPS PPS pulse, the GPS UART output provides time synchronization to a
universal clock through NMEA messages
- All dashed lines are indicating optionality – GPS support is optional for this system
- IEEE1588 provides both time synchronization and frequency synchronization of a local
122.88MHz clock through Ethernet time stamping such as supported in Layerscape devices. Synchronous Ethernet can be used in conjunction with this for local 3GPP clock generation.

# 18 2.3.5 External Interface Ports
The O-RU must have at least one RJ45 10 gigabit per second (Gbps) Ethernet interface or at least one 10 Gbps optical interface. In some cases, depending on the fronthaul throughput associated with smaller air interface bandwidths, a 1 or 2.5 Gbps Ethernet or optical interface may be sufficient, depending on system operator requirements. SCF 5G nFAPI should be supported. At full load, the power consumption must not exceed the limit allowed by IEEE802.3at/PoE+, which is 25.5W.

# 25 2.3.6 Power Unit
O-RU can use power over Ethernet (PoE) to simplify deployment complexity.

# 3 Suppliers must comply with any local regulatory requirements.

# 4 2.4 Integrated gNB-DU Reference Design Solution
This Section includes a reference design for an all-in-one, integrated gNB-DU solution. This section provides an example white box design for integrated indoor picocells, using FAPI as the internal interface between PHY and MAC. Typically, the MAC will run on an NPU while the PHY resides in a PHY Layer ASIC, connected via a PCIe interface. Figure 2-21 Sub-6 GHz Indoor Pico Integrated O-DU&O-RU Functional Modules Functional modules shown in Figure 2-21 for the integrated case are essentially the same as those in the O-RU split option. The main difference is in the NPU, which now terminates the O-CU/gNB-

# 15 DU interface.
The integrated gNB-DU may also include a GPS receiver to locally provide location and precise timing (as opposed to depending on the O-CU for those functions.) The integrated Option 6 design does not require an accelerator. Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. As in the split design, the DPU is a combination of NPU and PHY ASIC (same parts whether split or integrated.)

# 4 2.4.1 Power Unit
If PoE is used, At full load, the power consumption must not exceed the limit allowed by IEEE802.3at/PoE+, which is 25.5W.

# 8 2.4.1.1 Power Management
The Power Management functional module controls the flow of electrical power to other parts of the integrated O-DU/O-RU.

# 12 2.4.2 Synchronization and Timing
Local 1588v2 or GPS Slave interfaces for acquiring timing and synchronization can be included according to operator use case and deployment environment.

# 15 2.4.3 External Interface Ports
The integrated O-DU/O-RU must have at least one RJ45 10 gigabit per second (Gbps) Ethernet interface or at least one 10 Gbps optical interface. In some cases, depending on the fronthaul throughput associated with smaller air interface bandwidths, a 1 or 2.5 Gbps Ethernet or optical interface may be sufficient, depending on system operator requirements. SCF 5G nFAPI should be supported.

# 21 2.4.4 Power Unit
Integrated O-DU/O-RU can use power over Ethernet (PoE) to simplify deployment complexity. At full load, the power consumption must not exceed the limit allowed by IEEE802.3at/PoE+, which is

# 24 25.5W.

# 25 2.4.5 Environmental and Regulations
Integrated O-DU/O-RU IPC design is for indoor environments (nominal ambient temperature, humidity, altitude). Suppliers must comply with any local regulatory requirements.

# 29 2.5 FHGW Hardware Reference Design

# A FHGW is not required for option 6 hardware reference design.
Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V.

# 17 DU . See SCF 225.1.0 [11].
Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. In the integrated picocell case, the NPU implements higher layer protocol functions (L3 and portions or all of L2.) Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V.

# 7 SCF 222.10.03: 5G FAPI PHY API Specification

# 8 SCF 082.09.05: nFAPI and FAPI Specifications
SCF 223.10.02: RF and Digital Front End Control API

# 10 SCF 224.10.01: 5G FAPI Network Monitor Mode API

# 11 SCF 225.2.0: 5G nFAPI Specifications.
Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V.


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00.md -->
---
title: "Technical Specification Hardware Reference Design Specification for Indoor Picocell (FR1) with Split Architecture Option 8"
---

# 7 Release x.y.z
where: x the first digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc. (the initial approved document will have x=01). y the second digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been incorporated in the document. z the third digit included only in working versions of the document indicating incremental changes during the editing process. This variable is for internal WG7 use only. The present document specifies system requirements and high-level architecture for the FR1 Picocell Indoor deployment scenario as specified in the Deployment Scenarios and Base Station Classes document [1]. In the main body of this specification (in any “chapter”) the information contained therein is informative, unless explicitly described as normative. Information contained in an “Annex” to this specification is always informative unless otherwise marked as normative.

## 1.2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this text, constitute provisions of the present document. [1] ORAN-WG7.DSC.0-V01.00 Technical Specification, ‘Deployment Scenarios and Base Station Classes for White

# 24 Box Hardware’. https://www.o-ran.org/specifications
[2] 3GPP TR 21.905: "Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications". [3] 3GPP TR 38.104: "NR; Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception". http://www.3gpp.org/ftp//Specs/archive/38_series/38.104/38104-g10.zip [4] ORAN-WG4.CUS.0-v03.00 Technical Specification, ‘O-RAN Fronthaul Working Group Control, User and

# 29 Synchronization Plane Specification’. https://www.o-ran.org/specifications
[5] 3GPP TS 38.113:"NR: Base Station (BS) Electromagnetic Compatibility (EMC)". http://www.3gpp.org/ftp//Specs/archive/38_series/38.113/38113-f80.zip [6] ORAN-WG7. IPC. HAR-v01.00 Technical Specification, ‘Indoor Pico Cell Hardware Architecture and

# 33 Requirement Specification’. https://www.o-ran.org/specifications.
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 8 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 [7] ORAN.WG7. IPC-HRD-Opt7-2.0-v03.00 Technical Specification, ‘Indoor Pico Cell BS Hardware Reference Design Specifications with Fronthaul Split Option 7-2 and FR1’. https://www.o-ran.org/specifications

## 1.3 Definitions and Abbreviations

# 5 1.3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [2]. For the base station classes of Pico, Micro and Macro, the definitions are given in 3GPP TR 38.104 [3].

# 9 Carrier Frequency: Center frequency of the cell.
F1 interface: The open interface between O-CU and O-DU as defined by 3GPP TS 38.473 between CU and DU. Integrated architecture: In the integrated architecture, the O-RU and O-DU are implemented on one platform. Each x O-RU and RF front end is associated with one O-DU . They are then aggregated to O-CU and connected by F1 interface. Split architecture: The O-RU and O-DU are physically separated from one another in this architecture. A switch x x may aggregate multiple O-RU s to one O-DU . O-DU switch and O-RU s are connected by the fronthaul interface as x x x x defined in WG4. Transmission Reception Point (TRxP): Antenna array with one or more antenna elements available to the network located at a specific geographical location for a specific area.

# 19 1.3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in [2] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, as in [2]. 7-2 Fronthaul interface split option as defined by O-RAN WG4, also referred to as 7-2x

# 23 3GPP Third Generation Partnership Project

# 24 5G Fifth-Generation Mobile Communications

# 25 5GC 5G Core

# 26 ACS Adjacent Channel Selectivity

# 27 ADC Analog to Digital Converter

# 28 ASIC Application Specific Integrated Circuit

# 29 ATA Advanced Technology Attachment

# 30 BBDEV Baseband Device

# 31 BH Backhaul

# 32 BMC Baseboard Management Controller

# 33 BPSK Binary Phase Shift Keying

# 34 BS Base Station
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 9 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 3 CU Centralized Unit as defined by 3GPP

# 4 COM Cluster Communication

# 5 CPRI Common Public Radio Interface

# 6 CPU Central Processing Unit

# 7 CRC Cyclic Redundancy Check

# 8 DAC Digital to Analog Converter

# 9 DDC Digital Down Conversion

# 10 DDR Double Data Rate

# 11 DIMM Dual-Inline-Memory-Modules

# 12 DL Downlink

# 13 DPD Digital Pre-Distortion

# 14 DPDK Data Plane Development Kit

# 15 DSP Digital Signal Processor

# 16 DU Distributed Unit as defined by 3GPP

# 17 DUC Digital Up Conversion

# 18 ECC Error Correcting Code
eCPRI evolved Common Public Radio Interface

# 20 EMC Electro Magnetic Compatibility

# 21 EVM Error Vector Magnitude

# 22 FCC Federal Communications Commission

# 23 FEC Forward Error Correction

# 24 FFT Fast Fourier Transform

# 25 FH Fronthaul

# 26 FHGW Fronthaul Gateway
FHM Fronthaul Multiplexer with no FH protocol translation, supporting an O-DU with split option x x x and an O-RU with split option x, with currently available options 66, 7-27-2 and 88 x FHGW x→y Fronthaul Gateway that can translate fronthaul protocol from an O-DU x with split option x to an O-RU with split option y, with currently available option 7-28. y

# 31 FHHL Full Height Half Length

# 32 FPGA Field Programmable Gate Array

# 33 GbE Gigabit Ethernet

# 34 GNSS Global Navigation Satellite System

# 35 GPP General Purpose Processor

# 36 GPS Global Positioning System

# 37 HARQ Hybrid Automatic Repeat request

# 38 HHHL Half Height Half Length

# 39 IEEE Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers

# 40 IFFT Inverse Fast Fourier Transform

# 41 IMD Inter Modulation Distortion
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 10 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 3 L1 Layer 1

# 4 LDPC Low-Density Parity Codes

# 5 LRDIMM Load-Reduced Dual In-line Memory Module

# 6 LTE Long Term Evolution

# 7 LVDS Low-Voltage Differential Signaling

# 8 MAC Media Access Control

# 9 MCP Multi-Chip Package

# 10 MH Midhaul

# 11 MIG Memory Interface Generator

# 12 MII Media-Independent interface

# 13 MIMO Multiple Input Multiple Output

# 14 MU-MIMO Multiple User MIMO

# 15 NEBS Network Equipment-Building System

# 16 NetConf Network Configuration Protocol

# 17 NFV Network Functions Virtualization

# 18 NIC Network Interface Controller

# 19 NR New Radio

# 20 O-CU O-RAN Centralized Unit as defined by O-RAN
O-DU A specific O-RAN Distributed Unit having fronthaul split option x where x may be 6, 7-2 (as x defined by WG4) or 8 O-RU A specific O-RAN Radio Unit having fronthaul split option x, where x is 6, 7-2 (as defined by x WG4) or 8, and which is used in a configuration where the fronthaul interface is the same at the O-

# 25 DU
x

# 26 OCXO Oven Controlled Crystal Oscillator

# 27 PCIe Peripheral Component Interface Express

# 28 PDCP Packet Data Convergence Protocol

# 29 PHY Physical Layer

# 30 PMBus Power Management Bus

# 31 POE Power over Ethernet

# 32 PPS Pulse Per Second

# 33 PRACH Physical Random Access Channel

# 34 QAM Quadrature Amplitude Modulation

# 35 QPSK Quadrature Phase Shift Keying

# 36 QSFP Quad Small Form-factor Pluggable

# 37 RAN Radio Access Network

# 38 RDIMM Registered Dual In-line Memory Module

# 39 RF Radio Frequency

# 40 RoE Radio over Ethernet

# 41 RU Radio Unit as defined by 3GPP
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 11 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 3 SDU Service Data Unit

# 4 SFP Small Form-factor Pluggable

# 5 SFP+ Small Form-factor Pluggable plus

# 6 SOC System On Chip

# 7 SPI Serial Peripheral Interface

# 8 SSD Solid State Drive

# 9 TCXO Temperature Compensate Crystal Oscillator

# 10 TDP Thermal Design Power

# 11 TR Technical Report

# 12 TS Technical Specification

# 13 TX Transmitter

# 14 UL Uplink

# 15 USB Universal Serial Bus

# 16 WG Working Group
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 12 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 Chapter 2 Hardware Reference Design 1 This chapter describes a white box hardware reference design example for indoor Picocell deployment scenario. It includes O-CU, O-DU O-RU , and FHM for IPC deployment scenario.

# 8 8 8

# 16 8
The O-DU white box hardware is the platform that performs the DU function of L1 and lower L2. The hardware systems specified in this document meet the computing, power and environmental requirements of use cases configurations and feature sets of RAN physical node. These requirements are described in the early hardware requirement specification as well as in the use cases document. The O-DU hardware includes the chassis platform, mother board, peripheral devices and cooling devices. The mother board contains processing unit, memory, the internal I/O interfaces, and external connection ports. The fronthaul and backhaul interface are used to carry the traffic between O-RU /FHM and O-DU as well as O-CU and O-DU . The O-DU design may also provide an interface for hardware

# 8 8 8 8 8
accelerator if that option is preferred. The other hardware functional components include: the storage for software, hardware and system debugging interfaces, board management controller, just to name a few; the O-DU designer will make decision based on the specific needs of the implementation. Note that the O-DU HW reference design is also feasible for O-CU and integrated O-CU/ O-DU .

# 8 8

# 28 2.2.1 O-DU 8 High-Level Functional Block Diagram
Figure 2-1 shows the major functional blocks of O-DU . The digital processing unit handles the baseband processing workload. To make the processing more efficient, an accelerator can be used to assist with the baseband workload processing. The memory devices include the random-access memory (RAM) for temporary storage of data while flash memory is used for codes and logs. The storage device is for persistent storage. The external network cards can be used Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 13 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 for fronthaul or backhaul connection. The baseboard management controller (BMC) is a microcontroller which monitors hardware operation on motherboard. The clock circuits provide digital processing unit with required clock signals. Accelerator DDR RAM Flash Memory Baseboard Digital Processing Unit Management Controller Storage Drives Ethernet Card Clock

# 5 Figure 2-1: O-DU8 Functional Block Diagram.

# 6 2.2.2 O-DU 8 Hardware Design Description
Figure 2-2 describes the components and connections inside the O-DU white box. Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 14 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 9 2.2.3 O-DU 8 Hardware Components
In this section, the details of the O-DU hardware component’s requirements, features and parameters are described. The components selection is based on the use case requirements which are listed in the hardware architecture and requirements document [6].

# 13 2.2.3.1 Digital Processing Unit
This example of the digital processing unit in O-DU is based on the General Purpose Processor (GPP). a. Digital Processing Unit Requirement The GPP requirements are listed in the following table.

# 17 Table 2-1: The Processor Feature List
Item Name Description # of Cores 16 # of Threads 32 Base Frequency 2.20 GHz Max Turbo Frequency 3.00 GHz Cache 22 MB Thermal Design Power (TDP) 100W Max Memory Size (dependent on memory type) 512 GB Memory Types DDR4 Max # of Memory Channels 4 The interface specifications on the main board are as follows: Memory Channel Interfaces: The system memory capacity, type and related information are described in the following table.

# 23 Table 2-2: The Memory Channel Feature List
Item Name Description Memory Types DDR4 # of Memory Channels 4 ECC LRDIMM Up to 512GB ECC RDIMM Up to 256GB Memory Speed 2666/2400/2133MHz Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 15 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 DIMM Sizes 128GB, 64GB, 32GB, 16GB Memory Voltage 1.2 V PCIe: PCIe Gen 3 should be supported by the processor. There are total of 32 PCIe lanes with 128 Gb/s bandwidth. The 32 PCIe lanes can be divided into two x16 slots by using a riser card. Ethernet: The system should be capable to offer aggregated 48 Gb/s Ethernet bandwidth. The breakout the ports are discussed in later section. When higher Ethernet bandwidth required, an Ethernet card can be installed in one of the PCIe slot. b. Digital Processing Unit Design The digital processing unit is a SoC device which is a 64-bit multi-core server class processor. This SoC includes an integrated Platform Controller Hub (PCH), integrated high-speed I/O, Integrated Memory Controllers (IMC), and four integrated 10 Gigabit Ethernet ports. The SOC supports 512-bit wide vector processing instruction set. It also supports hardware virtualization to enable dynamic provisioning of services as communication service providers extend network functions virtualization (NFV). Figure 2-2 shows the major functional blocks of the digital processing unit.

# 14 2.2.3.2 Hardware Accelerator
Hardware accelerators can be used in O-DU to offload computationally intensive functions and to optimize the performance under varying traffic and loading conditions. The acceleration functional requirements and implementation are system designer’s choice; however, the O-DU shall meet the minimum system performance requirements under various loading and deployment conditions. In most cases, a Field Programmable Gate Array (FPGA) or Application Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC) based PCIe card can be used to optimize the system performance. The FPGA(s) are part of a Network Interface Controller (NIC) that further provides connectivity services.

# 21 2.2.3.2.1 Accelerator Design Solution 1
The O-DU system is typically implemented using a multi-core processor and one or more hardware accelerators. Parts of O-DU protocol stack can be implemented in software running on the multi-core processors, some of the computationally intensive L1 and L2 functions are offloaded to FPGA-based or similar hardware accelerators. This is a programmable hardware, which provides both flexibility and high computing capabilities. a. Accelerator Requirements The accelerator unit comprises one or more FPGAs (e.g., two FPGAs), sufficient amount of DDR4 memory, and synchronization circuitry where one of FPGAs is used for L1 functional offload and the other one is used to perform fronthaul connectivity functions/protocols. The FPGA for L1 offload uses dedicated cores for channel encoding/decoding as well as FPGA and processing resources for running L1 functions such as but not limited to rate matching and de-matching, interleaving and scrambling, demodulation and HARQ buffer management as well as OFDM modulation/demodulation and channel estimation.

# 33 Key features of the FPGA-based accelerator include:

# 34  2X10/25G CPRI or RoE fronthaul interface
 Built-in SyncE/IEEE1588v2 synchronization + external reference timing

# 36  L1 offloading options

# 37 - LDPC encoding and decoding

# 38 - Polar encoding and decoding
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 16 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00
- HARQ management with on board DDR memory (including DDR controller and interfaces)
- Other L1 offloading candidates include PRACH detection, MIMO encoding and decoding,
channel estimation
- Partial or full L1 functions can be offloaded. It is recommended to offload the user-plane
channel coding chain and part of or the entire control-plane channel coding chain to the hardware accelerator.  PCIe Gen3 x16, two Gen4 x8, or PCIe Gen3 x16 bifurcated to two Gen3 x8

# 8  GPP supported
 Standard PCIe FHHL card (It is assumed that the hardware accelerators further perform NIC functions).

# 10  8GB DDR4 memory for buffering

# 11  Power consumption not to exceed 75W
The accelerator requirements in hardware have been summarized inTable 2-3.

# 13 Table 2-3: Accelerator Hardware Component List
Item Name Description for FPGA 1 Description for FPGA 2 System Logic cells - 930K System Logic cells - 1,143K CLB LUT - 425K CLB LUT - 523K SDFEC -8 CLB Flip-Flops -1,045K SoC Resources DSP Slices - 4,272 DSP Slices - 1,968 BRAM - 38.0Mb BRAM - 34.6Mb URAM - 22.5Mb URAM - 36.0Mb Form Factor FHHL PCIe Form Factor x8 Gen1, Gen2, Gen3 interface to FPGA2 and PCIe Interface x8 Gen1, Gen2, Gen3 interface to FPGA1 have x16 to two x8 bifurcation FPGA1 FPGA2 On Board Total Capacity 4 GB in PL, upgradeable to 8GB Total Capacity 4 GB in PL, upgradeable to 8GB Memory Total Capacity 2 GB in PS, upgradeable to 4GB Total Capacity 2 GB in PS, upgradeable to 4GB 2xSFP28 optical interfaces to FPGA2 Network N/A Interface(s) (User Configurable, includes 10/25 Ethernet) Other External Micro USB for JTAG support (FPGA programming and debug) and access to BMC Interface(s) Graphical GUI for monitoring the basic board parameters, monitoring temperature alerts, firmware upgrades for User interface BMC Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 17 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00
- Power sequencing and reset
- Field upgrades
Board • FPGA configuration and control Management Controller • Clock configuration
- I2C bus access
- USB 2.0
Operating -5°C - 55°C Temperature Power < 75 W Low-Jitter, configurable clock ranging from10MHz to 750MHz Clocking Options PPS input and output with assembly option for OCXO and TCXO The following are the accelerator requirements in function and interface.

# 3 Functional offload requirements
One of the candidate functions for offloading is the LDPC encoder and decoder, which typically consists of computationally intensive and relatively highly power-consuming functions. It must be noted that neither software implementation in CPU nor soft FPGA logic implementation would provide a highly power-efficient solution while meeting/exceeding 3GPP NR user-plane encoder/decoder throughput and latency requirements, rather a hardened implementation of the FEC functions would be very power efficient. Downlink and uplink throughputs of up to 40Gbps and 18Gbps, respectively, are shown feasible with this architecture. Other candidate L1 functions for acceleration include CRC generation, segmentation, bit-level/sub-block interleaving and scrambling as well as FFT/IFFT processing, for which an FPGA can be used. For other symbol processing L1 functions, which require heavy multiply and accumulation operations, FPGAs 1 and 2 have DSP blocks that can efficiently perform these operations. Polar encoding and/or decoding on the control-plane can also be offloaded to FPGA1 resulting in high throughputs and low latencies.

# 15 Interface requirements
- PCIe: PCIe interface is widely used to provide interface between the GPP and hardware accelerators. FPGA
devices have dedicated PCIe hard IP which facilitate implementation and quick setup of PCIe interface. They support both PCIe Gen3 x16 or PCIe Gen4 x8, which allow the FPGA device to interface with any GPP supporting either PCIe Gen3 x16 or PCIe Gen4 x8 interface.
- Fronthaul: FPGA devices can support various speed grades and any fronthaul protocols, customers can use
off-the-shelf CPRI or RoE IPs to quickly implement and configure any fronthaul interface protocol.
- Serial transceivers: FPGA devices have SerDes resources to implement various connectivity speeds (e.g.,

# 33 Gb/s) per SerDes, 10G/25G CPRI, 10G/25G/50G/100G Ethernet connections can use these SerDes
resources.
- Ethernet MAC speed: FPGA devices have hardened implementations of Ethernet MAC that support speeds
of 100 Gb/s and above. The Ethernet MAC IP allows power-efficient implementation of high speed Ethernet connectivity. In the example shown in Figure 2-3, FPGA 1 and FPGA 2 can use the hard 100Gbps MAC IPs to connect each other, allowing the L1 and fronthaul functions to be distributed across these two FPGAs with less Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 18 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 connectivity overhead. For other Ethernet MACs such as 10G/25G Ethernet, they provide soft Ethernet MAC IPs, so when implementing CPRI or RoE fronthaul functions, 10G/25G Ethernet MAC can be used. b. Accelerator Design The hardware accelerator supports GPP. Figure 2-3 illustrates a two-chip acceleration architecture comprising two FPGAs with multi-lane PCIe interfaces toward the CPU and external connectivity toward O-RU (s) via CPRI/RoE and O-CU(s) through GbE connectivity. The example architecture further depicts multi-lane Gen3 or Gen4 PCIe interfaces between each FPGA and the CPU. The FPGAs communicate through high-bandwidth

# 8 Ethernet (GbE) transport.
FPGA1 (L1 Offload) CPU (L2 and L1) Inter-Chip Interface 100G Ethernet F1 Interface GbE (10/25G) FPGA2 (Connectivity) PCIe Interface Fronthaul Interface PCIe Gen3x16 (Gen4x8) 10/25G

# 9 100G CPRI/RoE
Figure 2-3: Example 2-chip FPGA-based Hardware Acceleration in O-DU8 Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 19 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 15 Key features of the FPGA-based accelerator include:

# 16  4X25G/10G CPRI optical interface

# 17  1x10G Ethernet optical interface
 Support GNSS/IEEE1588v2+syncE reference timing

# 19  L1 offloading options

# 20 - LDPC encoding and decoding

# 21 - HARQ management
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 20 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00
- Other optional L1 offloading such as FFT/IFFT, CP, CRC, rate matching, PRACH detection.

# 4  2GB DDR4 memory for Buffering
 Specific power supply design is required with 1-chip FPGA, since the maximum power consumption of PCIe specification (75w) could be exceeded, additional external auxiliary power may be required.

# 7 Functional offload requirements
- L1 offloading: One of the functions for L1 offloading is the LDPC encoder and decoder, which typically
consists of computationally-intensive and relatively highly power-consuming functions. Other L1 functions for acceleration include CRC generation, CP, PRACH detection and rate matching as well as FFT/IFFT processing.
- Fronthaul: The data transmission and protocol processing of fronthaul interface is completed on the FPGA
device.

# 14 Interface requirements
- PCIe: PCIe interface is widely used to provide interface between the CPU and hardware accelerators. FPGA
device has dedicated PCIe hard IP which facilitate implementation and quick setup of PCIe interface. FPGA support PCIe Gen3 x16, which allow the FPGA device to interface with any CPU supporting either PCIe Gen3 x16 interface.
- Fronthaul: FPGA device can support various speed grades and CPRI protocol for fronthaul interface
between O-DU and O-RU .

# 8 8
- Backhaul: FPGA device can support backhaul interface between O-DU and core network function with an

# 22 10G optical interface.
- Synchronization: Accelerator has external interfaces to support synchronization, including GNSS,
IEEE1588v2 and SyncE reference timing. Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 21 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 b. Accelerator Design 10G 4*25G LED Backhaul Fronthaul RJ45 MCU Power Supply Sequencer and Monitor 1PPS DDR4 1588/GPS QSPI_Flash Mixer 1PPS Clock Chip FPGA JTAG OSC GNSS ANT SMA Positive EN DC/DC hot swap controller 12V 12V PCIe AUX_POWER PCIE O-DU server

# 3 Figure 2-5: Example of Accelerator Design
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 22 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 Figure 2-5 shows the accelerator design, description of block diagram of board card: 12V power: The maximum power consumption of the whole card is estimated to exceed 75W. The PCIe cannot meet the power consumption demand, so it needs an external 12V auxiliary power supply. The extra power consumption can be included by the power unit of O-DU . Only power cord is needed, and it has no effect on the whole machine design. This part is not necessary if there are future optimizations. DC/DC: The module contains all the power sources used in the system. Power Supply Sequencer and Monitor: Since the system has the power on timing requirement, this module controls the output of each DC/DC to realize the normal power on/off of the system. Mixer and GNSS antenna: The system uses an external antenna, which can be placed outdoors to improve the receiving sensitivity of synchronizing signal. After mixer’s processing of the received signal, the signal source of 1pps is output to clock chip for system input synchronous clock signal. MCU (micro control unit): As the auxiliary processor of the board card, MCU realizes the temperature detection of the board card, the operation state indication and the configuration of power monitor and clock chip in the initialization process, and real-time monitoring of the working state of each module, exception handling and other functions. Clock chip: The chip realizes system-level clock input, which can synchronously output all kinds of clocks for clock synchronization of subordinate modules. FPGA: As the core chip of the board card, FPGA forwards the data of the downlink of the core network and the uplink data gathered at the O-RU (s), and interacts with the O-DU server through PCIe x16 to complete

# 8 8
the calculation of 5G NR data.

# 21 2.2.3.2.3 Accelerator Design Solution 3
Channel coding for LDPC and fronthaul compression requires a significant amount of bit level processing and is well suited to a fine-grained FPGA architecture and/or low cost/power structured ASIC. Options include:
- Look-aside FEC: LDPC (de)coding, Polar (de)coding, Rate (De)Matcher, (De) Interleaver, CRC, HARQ
- L1 Processing: (i)FFT & CP+/-, PRACH, channel estimation & beamforming
- Bump-in-wire Fronthaul: compression / decompression for latency and bandwidth reduction
a. Accelerator Requirement

# 28 Hardware requirements are listed in Table 2-4.

# 29 Table 2-4: Accelerator Hardware Feature List
Item Name Description PCIe (Interface with digital processing Gen4 x16 (and lower) unit） Form factor FHHL Connectivity 2x QSFP28/56 Logic Elements: 1437K FPGA M20K Memory: 139Mb Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 23 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 Quad-core GPP Hard Processor Sub-system 100Gb xHAUL for FH, BH & MH traffic shaping. Optional FPGA NIC Device co-processing. DDR Main 8+8+1GB DDR4 Flash (FPGA images) >=1 Gbit BMC Telemetry, Security, remote upgrade Clocking For O-RAN C1, C2, C3 & C4 Fronthaul CPRI GPS SMA for 1PPS & 10MHz (in/out) Operating Temperature (ambient) NEBS Compliant Power <75W (without optional NIC device) Clock Accuracy Low-Jitter, configurable clock ranging from 10MHz to 750MHz. Option for OCXO (TCXO as standard)

# 3 Table 2-5: Accelerator Firmware Feature List
Item Name Description Remote system upgrade Securely upgradable FPGA flash image Queuing 64 Queues supported equally split between UL & DL. NR LDPC Encoding with, interleaving and rate-matching. NR LDPC Decoding with sub-block de-interleaving function of reverse rate matching. LDPC Acceleration Early Termination, CRC attachment and HARQ buffering. 5G Throughput: DL 14.8Gbps, UL 3.2Gbps Load balancer distributes the pending encoder/decoder requests to Load Balancing (channel coding) encoder/decoders Code block based interface. Software enablement by BBDEV API (DPDK) Descriptor Format (channel coding) https://www.dpdk.org/ https://doc.dpdk.org/guides/prog_guide/bbdev.html In-line compression/decompression for Mu-Law, block-floating Fronthaul Compression point and quantization according to the O-RAN WG4 specification. Support for: Open programmable acceleration Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 24 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 environment • FPGA Flashing upgrade
- Firmware version reporting
- PCIe diagnostics
- Ethernet diagnostics
- Temperature and voltage telemetry information
b. Accelerator Design Accelerator design solution 3 has 2 options as shown in the figures below. FPGA Digital Processing Unit PCIe Gen 4x16 Connectivity & L1 FH 2x2x56Gbps Or lower (200G) Or lower Processing. L3,L2,L1(part) C1,2,3,4 Sync 1PPS & 10MHz SMA Figure 2-6: Accelerator Design 1 without optional NIC Device

# 7 The accelerator with optional NIC device.
FPGA Digital Processing Unit PCIe PCIe Gen 4x8 Connectivity & L1 FH 2x2x56Gbps Gen4x16 Or lower (100G) Or lower Processing. L3,L2,L1(part) C1,2,3,4 Sync 1PPS & 10MHz SMA 100Gb PCIe Gen 4x8 NIC Or lower (100G) Figure 2-7: Accelerator Design 1 with optional NIC Device Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 25 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 Structured ASIC Digital Processing Unit PCIe Gen 3x16 LDPC Or lower (100G) Code/Transport L3,L2,L1(part) Block

# 3 Figure 2-8: Structured ASIC Accelerator Design

# 4 2.2.3.2.4 Accelerator Design Solution 4
Channel coding for LDPC and fronthaul compression requires a significant amount of bit level processing and is well suited to a fine-grained structured ASIC. Features include:
- Look-aside FEC: Turbo (de)coding, LDPC (de)coding, Rate (De)Matcher, (De) Interleaver, CRC, HARQ
retransmission & (de)interleaver. a. Accelerator Requirement

# 10 Hardware features are listed in Table 2-6.

# 11 Table 2-6: Accelerator Hardware Feature List
Item Name Description PCIe Gen3 x16 Form factor HHHL DDR DDR4 (64-bit +ECC), 2667Mbps Interface for HARQ buffering Board Management Controller Telemetry, Security. Power <35W

# 13 Firmware Requirements are listed in Table 2-7.

# 14 Table 2-7: Accelerator Firmware Feature List
Item Name Description Queuing 64 Queues supported equally split between UL & DL. NR LDPC Encoding with, interleaving and rate-matching. LDPC Acceleration NR LDPC Decoding with sub-block de-interleaving function of reverse rate matching. Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 26 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 Early Termination, CRC attachment and HARQ buffering. 5G Throughput: DL 23Gbps, UL 8Gbps Load balancer distributes the pending encoder/decoder requests to Load Balancing (channel coding) encoder/decoders Code block and transport block based interface. Software enablement by BBDEV API (DPDK) Descriptor Format (channel coding) https://www.dpdk.org/ https://doc.dpdk.org/guides/prog_guide/bbdev.html b. Accelerator Design The following diagram shows the structured ASIC based accelerator design. Structured ASIC Digital Processing Unit PCIe Gen 3x16 LDPC Or lower (100G) Code/Transport L3,L2,L1(part) Block

# 6 Figure 2-9: Structured ASIC Accelerator Design

# 8 2.2.3.3 Baseboard Management Controller
BMC is used to perform hardware power control (power on, power off and power cycle), monitor hardware status (temperatures, voltages, etc.), monitor Basic I/O System (BIOS)/ Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI) firmware status, and log system events. It provides remote access via shared or dedicated NIC. System user can do console access via serial or physical/Kernel-based Virtual Machine (KVM). The BMC has dedicated RAM and flash memory. It provides access via serial port or Ethernet port. Figure 2-2 describes the BMC connections with related components.

# 16 2.2.4 Synchronization and Timing

# 17 2.2.4.1 Synchronization and Timing Design 1
This section describes the synchronization and timing mechanism that is used in the O-DU . Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 27 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 a. Hardware Requirements

# 3 1. GPS Synchronization
2. Ethernet based IEEE1588v2 Synchronization

# 5 3. BeiDou Synchronization

# 6 4. BeiDou and GPS switching
b. Hardware Design Depending on the timing distribution topologies used, the O-DU system clock is able to synchronize with the Grand Master Clock (GMC) using IEEE1588 via either the front haul NIC or backhaul NIC. O-DU can also synchronize timing using Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS). In the case of IEEE1588, the Physical Hardware Clock (PHC) within the NIC is synchronized with the GMC first, then the O-DU system clock is synchronized with the PHC. The O-DU is also capable to provide clock to the O-RU via front haul if needed.

# 8 8
When GNSS becomes available to O-DU , it will be able to synchronize the system clock to Coordinated Universal Time (UTC). Figure 2-10 outlines the O-DU timing synchronization mechanisms. GNSS 1pps System PHC PHC Clock NIC NIC Backhaul Fronthaul

# 16 Figure 2-10: O-DU8 Timing Synchronization

# 18 2.2.4.2 Synchronization and Timing Design 2
This section describes the synchronization and timing mechanism that is used in the hardware accelerator board. a. Hardware Requirements Each hardware accelerator board that supports connectivity functions in O-DU must be able to support external synchronization I/O and to receive or transmit 1 PPS reference clock source in order to ensure synchronization across network. b. Hardware Design The accelerator board can operate in the master or slave mode when supporting IEEE 1588v2 timing/synchronization. It can generate 1 PPS reference clock for synchronization in the master mode and can receive the 1 PPS reference clock in the slave mode for internal synchronization. The timing circuitry of the accelerator board is shown in Figure 2-11. Two FPGA SerDes transceivers are used to receive and transmit

# 29 SyncE TX and RX clocks.
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 28 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 SerDes SyncE TX Clock SyncE RX Clock SerDes FPGA (IEEE 1588v2 TCXO/OCXO Reference 1 PPS PLL Stack) GPS (1 PPS) Other Clocks

# 3 Figure 2-11: HW Acceleration Board Timing and Synchronization

# 4 2.2.5 External Interface Ports

# 5 The external interfaces of O-DU are described below.
a. Hardware Requirements The following table shows the external ports or slots that the system provided.

# 8 Table 2-8: External Port List
Item Name Description Ethernet Octave Gigabit Ethernet LAN connectors Dual 10GbE Base-T Ethernet connectors Dual 10GbE SFP+ Faber Ethernet connectors 2x100G QSFP28 or 2x25G SFP28 USB 2 USB 3.0 ports Serial Port 1 COM port via RJ45 Antenna port 1 SMA connector for GNSS b. Hardware Design The digital processing unit is a SoC device which provides the external ports described in the hardware requirement section. The system includes 2 USB 3.0 ports, and the serial RS232 port that can be used for Console Redirection, e.g. Out-of-Band Management. The system provides eight 1Gbps and four 10Gbps Ethernet ports. There are two or four 25G CPRI ports in system depends on the accelerator card used. The system also provides a RF interface to connect GNSS antenna. The following diagram outlines the external interfaces that supported. Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 29 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 GNSS

# 3 2.2.6 O-DU 8 Firmware
BIOS and BMC firmware are needed in the system and shall be installed. Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 30 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 3 • Mother Board
The mechanical layout of the mother board shows the location of major components and interface ports. The following diagram also provides the dimension of the board.

# 9 Figure 2-13: Mother Board Layout Diagram
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 31 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 5 Figure 2-14: Chassis Mechanical Diagram

# 6 • Cooling
The system installs 4x 40x28mm PWM fans for the cooling. Up to 6 fans can be installed if needed.

# 8 2.2.8 Power Unit
In a fully loaded system with two PCIe slots populated with 75W each, the system power consumption should be less than 400W. The total system power requirement shall be kept less than 80% of the power supply capacity. a. Hardware Requirements The power is provided by 500W High-Efficiency power supply with Power Management Bus (PMBus) 1.2. The power support input and output power rails are listed below.

# 14 AC Input: 100-240V, 50-60Hz, 6.6A max

# 15 DC Output: +3.3V: 12A

# 16 +5V: 15A

# 17 +5V standby: 3A

# 18 +12V: 41A

# 19 -12V: 0.2A
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 32 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 33 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 b. Hardware Requirements The O-DU chassis includes one 500W power supply unit. The power supply unit is auto-switching capable, which enables it to automatically sense and operate at a 100v to 240v input voltage. The power supply unit features are listed in the following table.

# 5 Table 2-9: Power supply unit feature list
Item Name Description Output connectors 24pin/8pin/4+4pin/HDD/I2C Dimension (W x D x H) 3.9 x 7.1 x 1.6 inch Maximum Output Power +3.3V: 12A +5V: 15A +12V: 41A -12V: 0.2A +5Vsb: 3A Rated Input Voltage/Current 100-240Vac / 6.6A max Rated Input Frequency 50-60HZ Inrush current Less than 30A

# 6 2.2.9 Thermal
Active cooling with up to 6 fans is integrated in the chassis. The hardware acceleration cards described in Section 2.2.3.2 use passive cooling and a custom heatsink and is equipped with temperature sensors. It is designed to operate in temperatures ranging from -5°C to +55°C.

# 10 2.2.10 Environmental and Regulations
The O-DU hardware system is RoHS Compliant. The power supply unit is EMC FCC/CISPR Class B compliant. Table

# 12 2-10 lists the environmental related features and parameters.

# 13 Table 2-10: Environmental Features
Item Name Description Operating Temperature -5°C to +55°C Non-operating Temperature -40°C to 70°C Operating Relative Humidity 8% to 90% (non-condensing) Non-operating Relative Humidity 5% to 95% (non-condensing) Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 34 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 The hardware accelerator described in Section 2.2.3.2 is designed to operate in indoor environments and in temperatures ranging from -5°C to +55°C.

## 2.3 O-RU Hardware Reference Design

# 3 8
In this section we describe, the HW reference design of all O-RU components including block diagram, HW components, synchronization and timing, mechanical design, power supply, thermal, and environment requirements.

# 6 2.3.1 O-RU 8 High-Level Functional Block Diagram
Figure 2-15 provides a high-level functional block diagram depicting the major HW/SW components. It also highlights the internal/external interfaces that are required. This document shows how to implement the system defined by the

# 9 IPC-HAR [6] document.
O-RU8 O-RAN FH Digital RF To/From CPRI Processing Processing O-DU Unit Unit Local timing from CDR GNSS (optional) Timing Unit Local timing from GNSS or equivalent Power Unit

# 11 Figure 2-15: High-Level Functional Block Diagram

# 12 2.3.2 O-RU 8 Hardware Components
General block diagrams for 2T2R and 4T4R O-RU examples are shown. Figure 2-16 shows a 2T2R implementation and Figure 2-17 shows an 4T4R implementation. In each of these diagrams, the Digital Processing Unit is further detailed in 2.3.2.1. Items under the umbrella of RF Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 35 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 Processing Unit, including the Transceiver, RFFE and other RF items are reviewed in additional detail in 2.3.2.2. Clock and Synchronization are reviewed in 2.3.3. The Power Unit is detailed in 2.3.6. TR Tx Rx control enable enable bypass enable Rx0 RFFE Tx0 PA enable SERDES Digital Processing Unit ORx0 ORx1 Port A SPI Tx1 PA enable RFFE Network SPI Clean Rx1 Clock Clock bypass enable Clock Transceiver Synchronizer TRx Reference Power Unit Figure 2-16: 2T2R General Block Diagram with TR switch TR Tx Rx control enable enable bypass enable Rx0 RFFE Tx0 PA enable SERDES Digital Processing Unit ORx0 ORx1 SPI Tx1 PA enable RFFE Network SPI Clean Rx1 Clock Clock bypass enable Clock Transceiver Port A bypass enable Rx0 RFFE Tx0 PA enable ORx0 Synchronizer TRx Reference ORx1 Tx1 enable PA RFFE bypass enable Power Unit Rx1 Figure 2-17: 4T4R General Block Diagram with TR switch Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 36 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 In following section, we describe their functionality, interfaces and performance of every block in the RF Processing Unit. Since device integration is an ongoing activity, chip boundaries may be fluid and some functionalities may move from one block to another or entire functionalities may be absorbed into other blocks. The sections below describe the functional blocks independent of which physical device they may reside in.

# 5 2.3.2.1 Digital Processing Unit
The digital processing unit of O-RU is mainly for performing tasks related to FH interface, RF interface, and OAM. i. FPGA Solution Design 1 The digital processing unit of O-RU is mainly for performing FH interface, RF interface, and OAM functions. a. FPGA Requirement The following items are the main requirement for the O-RU 8:
- Interface requirement: One lane of bi-direction SerDes targeting CPRI will be @10Gbps for FH split
option 8. Four lanes of bi-direction JESD204B SerDes will be used for 2T2R. Eight lanes of bi-direction

# 13 JESD204B SerDes will be used for 4T4R
- Resource requirement: FPGA resource requirements for 2T2R and 4T4R are shown in Table 2-11 and

# 15 Table 2-12.

# 16 Table 2-11: Resource requirement for 2T2R O-RU8
Module FF LUT BRAM18 DSP DUC 4820 4346 0 108 DDC 4820 4346 0 108 CFR 11470 6136 22 36 DPD 34269 13250 188 87 JESD204B 4314 4285 0 0 Fronthaul(CPRI) 4210 2756 1 0 Other 8000 5000 100 12 Total 71903 40119 311 351

# 18 Table 2-12: Resource requirement for 4T4R O-RU8
Module FF LUT BRAM18 DSP ChFIR 2832 2686 0 84 DUC 5148 3756 0 36 CFR 25676 12372 48 96 DPD 45770 17643 217 105 Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 37 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 AGC 1000 600 4 8 DDC 1716 1252 0 12 UL_ChFIR 2832 2686 0 84 JESD2048 9900 11127 0 0 CPRI 10080 8960 32 0 Total 104954 61082 301 425
- Processor requirement: For device model A, the processor will be used, one is used for device control
and management plane functions, the other one is for Digital Pre-Distortion (DPD) feedback path. For device model C, dual-core ARM cortex-A53 will be used, similarly one is used for device control and management plane functions, the other one is for DPD feedback path.
- Power requirement: Power estimations for 2T2R and 4T4R are shown in Figure 2-18 and Figure 2-19.

# 8 Figure 2-18: Power estimation for 2T2R O-RU8

# 10 Figure 2-19: Power estimation for 4T4R O-RU8
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 38 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00
- Speed grade, environmental requirement: -2L, 0℃ to 110℃
b. FPGA Design This solution of the digital processing unit incorporates FPGA and a processor. The FPGA handles high speed digital processing such as FH, DDC, DUC, CFR and so on. All functions are listed in the previous section. The processor is used for hardware device configuration and the OAM function. The FPGA and the processor core can be integrated into one SoC or implemented into two devices. Here the FPGA and the processor core are integrated into one SoC device. MIG DDR JESD204B Transceiver Processor SPI Flash SPI FPGA 245.76MHz 1.92MHz PLL 122.88MHz Debug IIC SFP+ Power:3.3V 2.5V 1.8V 1.35V 1.2V 0.9V

# 9 Figure 2-20: FPGA Reference Design Diagram
For the processor portion, the internal RAM resource may not be enough. So the external DDR is needed to let the processor handle more RAM consuming functions such as operation system or stack protocols like Network Configuration Protocol (NetConf) Client. For the O-RU design, the DDR3 with 256Mb*16bit memory capacity is enough. The interface between the DDR and processor can be memory interface generator (MIG).The external Flash is used to store operation system related files, calibration information of the RF portion, NetConf related files, FPGA firmware and so on. For this O-RU design, the flash with 2Gb memory capacity is enough. The online debug function is performed by external Ethernet PHY with an RJ45 connector. This allows the administrator to visit the internal function of the O-RU and control it. The interface between the DDR and processor can be Media-Independent interface (MII). The Ethernet PHY device can be very general 100M Ethernet Transceiver. The FPGA has one SerDes lane connected to optical module to perform the fronthaul link between O-RU and O-DU /FHM . Another 4 SerDes lanes of

# 8 8 8
the FPGA are needed to connect one transceiver of the O-RU to transmit or receive IQ sample by the interface of JESD204B while the FPGA needs synchronized clock signals to work well. The interface between PLL and FPGA should be Low-Voltage Differential Signaling (LVDS). Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 39 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 4 2.3.2.2.1 Transceiver Reference Design
For the O-RU the sampling function and frequency conversion function can be performed by transceiver. The purpose of using the transceiver is to saving power and size of the PCB. The Transceiver is to convert between high speed baseband data and a low-level RF for both transmit and receive signal chain. In addition, the transceiver is responsible for orchestration of control signals not limited to the PA enable, LNA enable, LNA bypass as well as other required system level signals. a. Hardware Requirements

# 11 Include the requirements for this component.
- Interface Requirements: The interface requirements for the Transceivers are list in Table 2-13.

# 13 Table 2-13: Interface requirements of the Transceiver
Item Name Description High Speed Data High speed data represents the baseband information being transmitted or received. Depending on the configuration of the O-RAN device, various bandwidths may be supported leading to a range of payload rates. Options for data include parallel data paths, JESD204B and JESD204C. Up to 8 lanes in each direction may be supported although fewer is preferred. Options such as DPD and numeric precision will impact the payload rate. Several options are shown in the following table. All data represents IQ 16-bit (N=16) precision. Some devices support IQ 12 bit (N’=12) which may reduce the required data rates accordingly. The tables below assume 1 ORx for 2 TRx. From Table 2-14 and shown by the capacity of a lane, typically 12.5 GBPS for JESD204B and 25 GBPS for JESD204C. Reference Clock The transceiver should receive a reference for internal clock and LO synthesis needs. This (Device Clock) reference clock can function as the JESD204 Device Clock where the interface is by SERDES. The specific clock frequency is determined by the operation mode of the transceiver and may range from 1Hz upward. SYSREF If the transceiver supports SERDES, then it should accept a SYSREF signal from the clock or data source as appropriate. The number and configuration for the SYSREF is dependent on the operating mode of the transceiver. SYNCB If the transceiver supports SERDES, then it should also support a SYNCB for each link as appropriate. Control Control of the transceiver is by way of 3 or 4 wire SPI or IIC functioning as a slave. Support for 1.8V control is required and tolerance of 3.3V is preferred. The transceiver may optionally include a separate SPI master for control of peripheral devices as required. GPIO The transceiver may optionally include GPIO for controlling peripherals including but not limited to PAs, LNAs and other devices. These GPIOs should at a minimum support 1.8V outputs but the specifics will be determined by the connected devices. The GPIO should Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 40 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 also support input from peripheral devices. Input should at a minimum support 1.8V logic with tolerance of 3.3V preferred. Tx Enable The transceiver should provide an output to support enabling and disabling the external devices in the transmit chain such as a TxVGA (optional) and PA. Rx Enable The transceiver should provide an output to support enabling and disabling the external devices in the transmit chain such as a RF Front End Module or LNA. LNA Bypass The transceiver should provide an output to support bypassing the LNA appropriately in the condition of a large blocker if so required. RF Outputs RF outputs including the main Tx signal should support 50 ohm or 100 ohms signalling. These outputs can be either single ended or differential. RF Inputs RF inputs including the main Rx and the Observation Rx (ORx) (for DPD) should support ohm or 100 ohms signalling. These inputs can be either single ended or differential. The device should support at least 1 ORx. Table 2-14: Payload with DPD in Digital Device (GBPS Rx/Tx) Bandwidth Parallel JESD204B JESD204C Parallel JESD204B JESD204C (MHz) 2T2R 4T4R

# 20 2.95/5.9 3.69/7.37 3.04/6.08 5.9/11.8 7.37/14.75 6.08/12.17

# 50 5.9/11.8 7.37/14.75 6.08/12.17 11.8/23.59 14.75/29.49 12.17/24.33

# 100 11.8/23.59 14.75/29.49 12.17/24.33 23.59/47.19 29.49/58.98 24.33/48.66
Table 2-15: Payload with DPD in Transceiver (GBPS Rx/Tx) Bandwidth Parallel JESD204B JESD204C Parallel JESD204B JESD204C (MHz) 2T2R 4T4R

# 20 1.97/1.97 2.46/2.46 2.03/2.03 3.93/3.93 4.92/4.92 4.06/4.06

# 50 3.93/3.93 4.92/4.92 4.06/4.06 7.86/7.86 9.83/9.83 8.11/8.11

# 100 7.86/7.86 9.83/9.83 8.11/8.11 15.73/15.73 19.66/19.66 16.22/16.22
- Algorithm Requirements: The transceiver is required to provide appropriate algorithms to sustain RF
operation including but not limited to Rx AGC, Tx Power control. DPD and CFR may be included either in the transceiver or in the digital baseband device making the trade-offs in Payload shown in

# 8 Table 2-11 and Table 2-12.
- Device Configuration: The transceiver should support either 2T2R or 4T4R. In addition, at least one
ORx path should be supported. Additional ORx paths are allowed as required for the application. Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 41 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00
- Power Dissipation: Total dissipation of the TRx should be less than 6W for 4T4R.

# 4 Table 2-16: RF specifications in Transceiver
Parameter Symbol Min Typ Max Unit Test Conditions/Comments TRANSMITTERS Center Frequency 650 6000 MHz Transmitter Synthesis 450 MHz Bandwidth Transmitter Large 200 MHz Signal Bandwidth Transmitter Attenuation 0 32 dB Signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) Power Control Range maintained for attenuation between 0 dB and 20 dB Transmitter Attenuation 0.05 dB Power Control Resolution Adjacent Channel 20 MHz LTE at −12 dBFS Leakage Ratio (ACLR) −66 dB 75 MHz < f ≤ 2800 MHz In Band Noise Floor 0 dB attenuation; in band noise falls 1 dB for each dB of attenuation for attenuation between 0 dB and 20 dB −154.5 dBm/Hz 600 MHz < f ≤ 3000 MHz Out of Band Noise 0 dB attenuation; 3 × bandwidth/2 Floor offset −153 dBm/Hz 600 MHz < f ≤ 3000 MHz Maximum Output 0 dBFS, continuous wave tone Power into 50 Ω load, 0 dB transmitter attenuation dBm 600 MHz < f ≤ 3000 MHz Third Order Output OIP3 0 dB transmitter attenuation Intermodulation Intercept Point dBm 600 MHz < f ≤ 5700 MHz Error Vector Magnitude EVM (Third Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) Test Signals)

# 1900 MHz LO 0.6 % 50 kHz RF PLL loop bandwidth

# 3800 MHz LO 0.53 % 300 kHz RF PLL loop bandwidth
OBSERVATION ORx RECEIVER Center Frequency 450 6000 MHz Gain Range 30 dB IIP3 improves decibel for decibel for the first 18 dB of gain attenuation; QEC performance optimized for 0 dB to 6 dB of Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 42 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 Parameter Symbol Min Typ Max Unit Test Conditions/Comments attenuation only Analog Gain Step 0.5 dB For attenuator steps from 0 dB to dB Receiver Bandwidth 450 MHz Maximum Useable PHIGH 0 dB attenuation; increases Input Level decibel for decibel with attenuation; continuous wave corresponds to −1 dBFS at ADC −11 dBm 75 MHz < f ≤ 3000 MHz Integrated Noise −58.5 dBFS 450 MHz integration bandwidth −57.5 dBFS 491.52 MHz integration bandwidth Third-Order Input IIP3 Maximum observation receiver Intermodulation gain; test condition: PHigh - 11 Intercept Point dB/tone Narrow Band

# 1900 MHz 15 dBm

# 2600 MHz 16.5 dBm

# 3800 MHz 18 dBm
Wide Band IM3 products>130 MHz at

# 2600 MHz 11 dBm 11 dB/tone ; 491.52 MSPS

# 38000 MHz 13 dBm
Third-Order IM3 Intermodulation Product −70 dBc 600 MHz < f ≤ 3000 MHz Spurious-Free Dynamic SFDR 64 dB Non IMx related spurs, does not Range include HDx; (PHIGH − 11) dB input signal Harmonic Distortion (PHIGH − 11) dB input signal Second Order Harmonic HD2 −80 dBc In band HD falls within ±100 Distortion Product MHz −73 dBc Out of band HD falls within ±225 MHz Third-Order Harmonic HD3 −70 dBc In band HD falls within ±100 Distortion Product MHz −65 dBc Out of band HD falls within ±225 MHz RECEIVERS Center Frequency 6000 MHz Gain Range 30 dB Analog Gain Step 0.5 dB Attenuator steps from 0 dB to 6 Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 43 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 Parameter Symbol Min Typ Max Unit Test Conditions/Comments dB dB Attenuator steps from 6 dB to 30 dB Receiver Bandwidth 200 MHz Maximum Useable PHIGH 0 dB attenuation, increases Input Level decibel for decibel with attenuation; continuous wave = 1800 MHz; corresponds to −1 dBFS at ADC −11 dBm 75 MHz < f ≤ 3000 MHz Noise Figure NF 0 dB attenuation, at receiver port dB 600 MHz < f ≤ 3000 MHz Input Third-Order IIP3 Intercept Point Difference Product, IIP3, d

# 2600 MHz (Wideband) 17 dBm Two (PHIGH − 9) dB tones near band

# 2600 MHz (Midband) 21 dBm edge
Sum Product, IIP3, s

# 2600 MHz (Wideband_ 20 dBm Two (PHIGH − 9) dB tones, at bandwidth/6 offset from the LO
HD3 HD3 (PHIGH − 6) dB continuous wave tone at bandwidth/6 offset from the LO −66 dBc 600 MHz < f ≤ 4800 MHz Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 44 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 b. Hardware Design For the O-RU the sampling function and frequency conversion function can be performed by transceiver. Usually the transceiver is integrated by ADC, DAC, LO, down converter, up converter and so on. The block diagram of transceiver design is shown in Figure 2-21. SCLK CSB SPI Port SDO SDIO Ext R L E O F / C C S l l Y o o S c c R k k E I I F n n Syn & c S h C y r l n o o t n c h i k z e , a s t is ion CPIO1 GPIO2 In C t o e n r t f r a o c l e GPIO3 Receiver Block 4 GPIO# Receiver Block 3 Receiver Block 2 Decimation Receiver Block 1 pDFeIRcimation AGCpDFeIRcimation Rx4 ADC TuninAgGCpDFeIRcimation Rx3 ADC RSSTIuninAgGCpFIR Rx2 ADC OverloRaSdSTIuninAgGC Rx1 ADC Device MaOnvaegrelomRaeSdnSTIutning Device MaOnvaegrelomRaeSdnSIt Device MaOnvaegrelomaednt Device Management Transmit Block 4 SYNCIN Transmit Block 3 Tra T n r s a m n i s t m B i l t o c B k lo 2 ck 1 SERDES Out Interpolation Tx4 Tx3 Tx2 Tx1 DA D C A D C A D C AC Dev D ic e e v T M I D i p u c n a F n e e t n eI i v T R n M I a r i p u c ng p g a F n e t o e n eI i T l R n M mI a r a p u ng p g t a eF n t i o e o n enI i T l R nm n a r a p u t g p g t eF n i o e o nI i l R nm n a t g t e io n n t Se J r E i S a D l I 2 n 0 t 4 e B rf / a C c e S S Y E N RD C E O S U In T Device Management DPD Engine Observation Receiver Decimation pFIR

# O O O O R R R R x x x x 1 2 3 4 ADC Tu A R n S G i S n C I g
Overload Device Management Optional Features Figure 2-21: Transceiver Reference Design Diagram (Optional elements are highlighted in Grey) The definition of the input/output lines are as follows:
- REF Clock In is the differential reference input to the on-chip synthesizer. This may also function as the

# 10 SerDes Device Clock.

# 11 • SYSREF is a JESD204B/C differential synchronization signal.
- Ext LO/Clock Input is an optional input that can be used as an alternate LO or clocking signal.
- Rx1 through Rx4 are differential receiver inputs to their respective cores.
- Tx1 through Tx4 are differential transmitter output from their respective cores.
- ORx1 through ORx4 are differential observation receiver inputs.

# 16 • SCLK is the serial control clock input.
- CSB is the active low device select for the control interface.
- SDO is the serial data output for the control interface. This pin may be omitted for 3-pin control
implementations.
- SDIO is a bidirectional serial data interface. In 4-pin mode, this pin functions as the serial data input.
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 45 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00
- GPIO1 – GPIO# are general purpose IO signals used for interrupts, enables, test mode and resets. These
are used as interface and control for peripheral devices including controllers, TxVGAs, PA, LNA and similar devices where SPI control is too slow.
- SYNCIN are differential pins associated with the receiver channels of the JESD204 interface. In not
used, they are typically grounded. Up to 4 pair may be supported.
- SerDes Out are differential JESD204B/C data output interfaces. Up to 8 lanes may be active.
- SerDes In are differential JESD204B/C data input interfaces. Up to 8 lanes may be active.
- SYNCOUT are differential pins associated with the transmitter channels of the JESD204 interface. If
not used, do not connect. Up to 4 pair may be supported.

# 10 2.3.2.2.2 Power Amplifier (PA) Reference Design
The Power Amplifier boosts the RF output to the level required for the base station class. a. Hardware Requirements The PA should have large enough gain to reduce the need for an additional driver. This will reduce cost and PCB space. The output power should be at least 27dBm (30dBm for 500mW/port to compensate for the loss of switch and antenna filter). The ACLR should be greater than 47dBc according to the related 3GPP test mode. DPD is needed to reduce the power consumption. The P1 dB requirement is closely related to the DPD algorithm.

# 18 Table 2-17: PA Requirements
Frequency band Band41 Band78 Additional Information Gain >33dB >33dB P3dB >34dBm >34dBm ACLR>=47dBc with DPD@100MHz NR 27dBm >37dBm(500mW/port) (30dBm for 500mW/port) Input return loss <-15dB <-15dB Output return loss <-15dB <-15dB Switching Speed <1us <1us HD2 >28dBc >28dBc CW 27dBM HD3 >30dBc >30dBc CW 27dBm Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 46 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 5 Table 2-18: Interface requirements of the transmit PA
Item Name Description Enable The enable input should be compatible with 1.8V logic and tolerate 3.3V as required. A logic high enables the PA. A logic low disables the device and places it in a minimum dissipation mode. RF Outputs RF outputs support 50-ohm single ended to properly interface to a directional coupler, isolator, switch or antenna. RF Inputs RF inputs should support 50 ohm, single ended match to the transceiver output or preamp. RF power detector Power detector (optional)
- Power Dissipation: Dissipation while enabled should not exceed ~3W.
b. Hardware Design RF is the input to the PA, RF is the output of the PA. V and V are the power inputs of the PA. PAEN is in out cc bias the control pin to disable or enable the PA. The input and output should match to 50 ohm as much as possible to reduce the reflection. V and V need capacitors to reduce the DC power ripples and give a short route to cc bias reduce the RF energy leakage. Figure 2-22 shows the details. Vcc RFout RFin RFEN

# 15 Figure 2-22: PA Reference Design Diagram
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 47 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 7 The requirements of the LNA are listed here.
- Interface Requirements: The interface requirements of the transmit LNA are listed in Table 2-19.

# 9 Table 2-19: One stage LNA Requirements
Parameter Band 41 Band 78 Additional Information NF <1dB <1dB Gain >15dB >15dB P1dB >18dBm >18dBm Input return loss <-12dB <-12dB Output return loss <-15dB <-15dB Switching Speed <1us <1us IP3 >30dBm >30dBm 2 Tone CW -15dBm

# K >1 >1 up to f = 12.5 GHz
Max input power >15dBm >15dBm

# 11 • Device Configuration: Single or dual device.
- Power Dissipation: Less than 500 mW for a dual when device is fully enabled in receive mode.
- RF Specifications: For LNA unit, it should have larger enough gain to reduce extra driver amplifier for
cost and PCB space. The NF figure of LNA should small enough to overcome the loss of switch and filter.

# 16 Table 2-20: Two stage LNA Requirements
Frequency band Band41 Band78 Additional Information Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 48 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 NF <1 dB <1.5 dB High gain >=32 dB High gain >=32 dB Gain Low gain >=16 dB Low gain >=16 dB P1dB >18dBm >18dBm Input return loss <-12dB <-12dB Output return loss <-15dB <-15dB Switching Speed <1us <1us IP3 >30dBm >30dBm 2 Tone CW -15dBm

# K >1 >1 up to f = 12.5 GHz
Max input power >15dBm >15dBm b. Hardware Design The reference designs for one stage LNA and two-stage LNA are given.

# 4 • One stage LNA
RFin is the input port of the LNA. RFout is the output of the LNA. Vcc is the power input of the LNA. LNA EN is the control pin to disable or enable the LNA. The input match to 50 ohm as much as possible to reduce the reflection. But for output of the LNA, it is hard to get best Noise figure and the output return loss. Compromise is needed between NF and return loss. Usually the return loss should be around -10dB or - 12dB. Also is should be very careful to assure the stability of the LNA in a large bandwidth. Vcc needs capacitors to reduce the DC power ripples and give a short route to reduce the RF energy leakage. Figure

# 11 2-23 shows the details.
Vcc RFout RFin LNAEN

# 13 Figure 2-23: One Stage LNA Diagram
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 49 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 9 2-24 shows the details.
Vcc Vcc RFout RFin LNAEN LNAbypass

# 11 Figure 2-24: Two-Stage LNA Diagram

# 12 2.3.2.2.4 RF Switch Reference Design
For TDD use, the TX and RX links work spiritedly by time duplex. The switch is used to change the RF link according to the TDD duplex. In the TDD TX mode, the switch is switched to connect PA and antenna. In TDD RX mode, the switch is switched to LNA and antenna. a. Hardware Requirements The requirements of the RF switch are listed here.

# 18 • Interface Requirements
The interface requirements of the switch are listed in Table 2-21.

# 20 Table 2-21: Interface requirements of the RF switch
Item Name Description Control Control the switch working mode RF COM The port connected to the antenna RF inputs should support 50 ohm, single ended to match the antenna. Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 50 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 RF Outputs The port connected to the LNA. RF inputs should support 50 ohm, single ended to match the LNA. RF Inputs The port connected to the PA. RF inputs should support 50 ohm, single ended to match the PA output.

# 8 Table 2-22: RF Switch Requirements
Frequency band Band 41 Band 78 Additional Information Loss <0.8dB <0.8dB P1dB >36dBm >36dBm >39dBm(500mW/port) Input return loss <-15dB <-15dB Output return loss <-15dB <-15dB Switching Speed <1us <1us Isolation >30dB >30dB HD2 >70dBc >70dBc CW 27dBm HD3 >70dBc >70dBc CW 27dBm b. Hardware Design RF Com is the input port of the switch, also can be the output of the switch. RF in is the input of the switch. RF out is the output of the switch. Control 1 and control 2 are the control pin to switch the RFin to RF Com or from RF Com to RF out. Figure 2-25 shows the details. Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 51 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 Control1 RFin RF com RFout Control2

# 7 Table 2-23: Antenna Requirements
Frequency band Band 41 Band 78 VSWR ≤1.8 ≤1.8 Power capacity ≥1 W ≥2 W Gain ≥2 dBi ≥2.5 dBi Beam width on ≥35° ≥35° vertical direction pattern roundness on ±3 dB ±3 dB horizontal direction b. Hardware Design One possible choice of the isotropic antenna is the whip antenna. Following figure shows a design of one kind of whip antenna.

# 13 Figure 2-26: Whip Antenna

# 14 2.3.3 Synchronization and Timing
The purpose of the Clocking device is to accept the network reference clock, typically 1 PPS, and generate a jitter free reference clock(s) for other devices in the system including the RF transceiver and digital block. The clock is typically Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 53 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 part of an IEEE 1588 implementation either controlled by an external stack or implemented in the clock device itself which could be part of the baseband implementation. Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 54 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 a. Hardware Requirements

# 4 Table 2-24.

# 5 Table 2-24: Interface requirements of the clocking
Item Name Description Reference Clock The clock device should receive a network reference clock from the FPGA/ASIC. This Input typically could be a 1pps, 10 MHz or other standard reference as determined by the specific implementation. More than one input is allowed that may be selected between when the reliability of one reference is compromised. Standard differential clocking should be used to preserve signal integrity. Control Control of the transceiver is by way of 3 or 4 wire SPI or IIC functioning as a slave. Support for 1.8V control is required and tolerance of 3.3V is preferred. Typically, the clock devices will be part of an IEEE1588v2 protocol loop controlled by way of this control interface or other GPIO lines as required by the hardware implementation. Clock Outputs One or more clock outputs are required to drive the digital device and transceiver clock inputs. Each output should be independently programmable in frequency to suit the application. The outputs should nominally be differential to preserve clocking edge and to maximize tolerance of high common mode signals. RF Inputs RF inputs should support 50 ohm or 100 ohms, single ended or differential signalling to match the transceiver output.
- Power Dissipation: Total dissipation should be about less than 2W.
- RF Specifications: Clocking RF requirements are given in the following table.

# 9 Table 2-25: Clocking RF requirements
Absolution Phase Noise, Dual Loop Typical Additional Information Mode - LVDS OUTPUT f = 122.88 MHz Example is using an external 122.88 MHz OUT VCXO (Crystek CVHD-950); reference =

## 122.88 MHz; channel divider = 10 or 1;
PLL2 loop bandwidth (LBW) = 450 kHz.

# 10 Hz Offset −86 dBc/Hz

# 100 Hz Offset −106 dBc/Hz
kHz Offset −126 dBc/Hz kHz Offset −135 dBc/Hz 100 kHz Offset −139 dBc/Hz 800 kHz Offset −147 dBc/Hz Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 55 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 10 MHz Offset −157 dBc/Hz

# 40 MHz Offset −158 dBc/Hz
Absolute Phase Noise, Single Loop Mode – LVDS OUTPUT Typical LVDS OUTPUT f = 122.88 MHz Example is using an external 122.88 MHz OUT reference (SMA100A generator); reference = 122.88 MHz; channel divider = 10; PLL2 LBW = 450 kHz.

# 10 Hz Offset −111 dBc/Hz

# 100 Hz Offset −113 dBc/Hz
kHz Offset −123 dBc/Hz kHz Offset −135 dBc/Hz 100 kHz Offset −140 dBc/Hz 800 kHz Offset −147 dBc/Hz

# 10 MHz Offset −157 dBc/Hz

# 40 MHz Offset −157 dBc/Hz
CLOCK OUTPUT ADDITIVE Example is using an external 122.88 MHz TIME JITTER (BUFFER source driving VCXO inputs (distribution MODE) section only, does not include PLL and Typical VCO) f = 122.88 MHz 79 fS Integrated BW = 200 kHz to 5 MHz OUT 101 fS Integrated BW = 200 kHz to 10 MHz 140 fS Integrated BW = 12 kHz to 20 MHz 187 fS Integrated BW = 10 kHz to 40 MHz 189 fS Integrated BW = 1 kHz to 40 MHz 176 fS Integrated BW = 1 MHz to 40 MHz Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 56 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 b. Hardware Design For the clocking function, it is usually performed by a synchronization IC which may include one or more PLLs. And it also can supply numbers of output port to support different frequency clocking. VCX O LF2_EXT_CAP LDO_VCO PLL 1 REFA D 1 i 0 vi - d b e it r Switch- REF_SEL co o n ve tr r o l L D o e c t k L fi o lt o e p r PLL 2 REFB D 1 i 0 vi - d b e it r 10-bit D P F C P h u a m rg p e x2 D 5 iv -b id it e r PFD C P h u a m rg p e L fi o lt o e p r VCO ÷3 D , iv ÷ i 4 d , e ÷ r 5 Divider 8-bit Divider SYNC SDIO SDO Control SCLK Interface CS (SPI & I2C) RESET

# 5 Figure 2-27: PLL Reference Design Diagram
REFA and REFB are differential reference clock inputs from the source to be cleaned up and used as the system reference. REF_SEL is the control pin used to select between REFA and REFB signals. LF1 is PLL1 external loop filter. VCXO_VT is the VCXO control voltage. This pin is connected to the voltage control pin of the external VCXO. VCXO_IN are differential signals from the external VCXO. These typically can be configured for single ended operation as well. LF2_CAP is the external loop filter capacitor for loop 2. This cap is connected between this pin and LDO_VCO pin. LDO_VCO is the on-chip LDO regular decoupling for the VCO. RESET(bar) is an active low pin to reset the internal logic to their default states. CS(bar) is an active low chip select for serial control. SCLK/SCL is a serial control port clock for both SPI and I2C. SDIO/SDA is a bidirectional serial data pin for both SPI and I2C. SDO is the serial data out pin for 4-wire mode. OUT0 through OUT13 are differential programmable output clock signals. These are the primary outputs of this device and provide high performance clock signals to the transceiver, baseband device and other key elements. This device is also responsible for providing SYSREF to various devices in the system if required. It may also use an external SYSREF as a source that may be retimed for local timing if necessary. STATUS0/SP0 is a lock detect and other status signal. STATIS1/SP1 is a lock detect and other status signal. SYSREF_IN is an external SYSREF input clock is a differential input representing the JESD204 synchronization from the external source. Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 57 Address Serial Port Detect/ Lock Monitor Status 8-bit Divider DQ dFeilnaey OUT0 w/ Coarse Delay SYNC 8-bit Divider DQ dFeilnaey OUT1 w/ Coarse Delay SYNC OUT2 to OUT 11 8-bit Divider DQ dFeilnaey OUT12 w/ Coarse Delay SYNC SYSREF 8-bit Divider DQ dFeilnaey OUT13 w/ Coarse Delay SYNC DQ DQ Lock Detect SYS_REF Generation Trigger SPI_SYS_REF DQ Request Status_0,1 /SP0,1 SYSREF REQUEST (CMOS) ... ... ... LF1 VCXO VT VCXO VCXO ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 4 Table 2-26: External Port List
Port Name Feature Description Fronthaul interface One 10Gbps SFP+ transceiver interface Or one RJ45 Ethernet interface Debug interface RJ45 for debug usage Power interface Two-pin male plug for power cable b. Hardware Design
- SFP+ case and connector: The SFP+ case and connector are standardized component on the market;
following figure describe the form factor of one SFP case which is integrated with connector.

# 10 Figure 2-28: SFP+ case and connector
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 58 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00
- RJ45 Ethernet interface: The RJ45 Ethernet interface is standardized component on the market; following
figure describe the form factor of one RJ45 interface.

# 4 Figure 2-29: RJ45 interface

# 5 2.3.5 Mechanical
The shell of O-RU is showing in the following figure. The O-RU should be quiet, so it depends on the natural heat

# 8 8
dissipation method. Usually the bottom of the shell is built by metal. All hot component should make its surfaces contact to metal shell through thermal pad.

# 10 Figure 2-30: O-RU8 Shell Mechanical Diagram
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 59 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 11 Table 2-28: Power unit function
Function Priority Enable/Disable Mandatory Power good Optional Input voltage Mandatory 48V Output voltage Mandatory 0.85V 1.2V 1.3V 1.5V 1.8V 2.5V 3.3V 5V 12V etc. Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 60 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 b. Hardware Design The block diagram of POE reference design is shown in Figure 2-31. Data Pair and Spare Pair are the POE connections on the data transformers used to source the power over Ethernet. V is a local backup power AUX source if desired. Isolated Output is the isolated raw output from the POE sub-circuit.

# V ( 9 V to 60 V i
AUX n C PORT ~ + DATA C

# V PD
PAIR ma - issu 0 . 1 lay 3 . 3 k ppi ance ers V I N nF ~ + Isolated Isolated

# U Power

# 8 Output
S PAIR ~ - VPORT HSGATE HSSRC Supply AUX PWRGD Run Power over Ethernet Controller GND

# 7 Figure 2-31: POE Reference Design Diagram

# 9 2.3.7 Thermal

# 10 O-RU will use passive cooling.

# 11 2.3.7.1 Environmental and Regulations
The O-RU hardware system is RoHS Compliant. The power supply unit is EMC FCC/CISPR Class B compliant. Table

# 13 2-29 lists the environmental related features and parameters.

# 14 Table 2-29: Environmental Features
Item Name Description Operating Temperature -5°C to +55°C Non-operating Temperature -40°C to 70°C Operating Relative Humidity 8% to 90% (non-condensing) Non-operating Relative Humidity 5% to 95% (non-condensing) Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 61 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

## 2.4 FHM Hardware Reference Design

# 8 8 8 8
front haul bandwidth.

## 2.5 FHM High-Level Functional Block Diagram

# 5 8
Figure 2-32 shows the FHM block diagram for this reference design. Following sections below describe the functionality, interface and performance for each respective block of the Digital Processing Unit. As device integration is an ongoing activity, chip boundaries may be fluid and some functionality may move from one block to another or entire functionalities may be absorbed into other blocks. The sections below describe the functional blocks independent of which physical device they may reside in. Uplink Cascade 25G 25G RJ45 SFP+ SFP+ 220V AC RS232 DDR Power FPGA+ARM Flash CLK Serdes Serdes 48V FAN Power … Power 10G … 10G interface1 interface8 SFP+.1 SFP+.8

# 13 Figure 2-32: FHM8 General Block Diagram
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 62 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

## 2.6 FHM Hardware Components

# 7 The requirements are as follows:

# 8 • Interface requirement

# 9 Table 2-30: Interface requirements of the FPGA
Item Name Description At least 8 lanes of bi-direction10Gb SerDes SerDes lane At least 2 lanes of bi-direction25Gb SerDes b. FPGA Design This unit handles multiple high speed interfaces and the digital signal processing. The main chipset is based on FPGA with ARM multi-core processor while FPGA is responsible for high speed data processing and ARM cores are mainly for configuration and management.

# 15 The FPGA function is shown below:
For the uplink processing, the CPRI interface module is used to receiver CPRI link form O-RU and generate the reference frequency and time slot for time and frequency synchronization. Then the CPRI de-frame module get the uplink IQ bit stream of the time domain the carrier from O-RU . If the uplink IQ stream is compressed, then it needs the de-compression module to translate them into original bit width. After that all the O-RU uplink IQ streams are combined together and the precondition for the combine function is that each stream from different O-RU are aligned in time domain. If the FHM can support two separate cells then the two cell uplink signal should be aggregated or interleaved together. Then capture the IQ streams in the CPRI frame and transmitted by CPRI interface to the O-DU . For the downlink processing, the procedure is much the same with uplink but with an inverse sequence. The difference is that the downlink signal is duplicated with 8 copies and sends to different O-RU . There is also a CPRI OAM module; actually this module will work with the processor (Arm) to accommodate the

# 27 OAM of different O-RU and the FHM itself.

# 8 8
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 63 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 De- CPRI CPRI Buffer compress de-frame interface De- CPRI CPRI Buffer Other cell I/Q compress de-frame interface CPRI CPRI Compress aggregati combiniti interface frame ion on on De- CPRI CPRI Buffer compress de-frame interface Other cell Ethernet OAM CPRI CPRI Buffer frame interface CPRI CPRI Buffer Other cell frame interface CPRI CPRI de- aggregati I/Q mux interface frame on CPRI CPRI Buffer frame interface

# 4 Table 2-31: FPGA Resource usage for FHM8
Device FF LUT URAM BRAM DSP IQ MUX 1000 1000 0 0 0 Cascade 2000 2000 0 0 0 IQ combine 2000 2000 0 32 0 CPRI deframe*9 45000 45000 0 0 0 CPRI frame*9 45000 45000 0 0 0 Fronthaul(CPRI)x1 47500 31000 0 10 0 compress*1 3000 3000 0 24 32 de_compress*8 24000 24000 0 192 208 ethernet_cm 3000 3000 0 15 0 Other 20000 15000 0 200 0 Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 64 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 5 • CLK requirement
The FHM may support some kinds of synchronization method:

# 7 1) Support GPS/GLONASS/GALILEO/BEIDOU
So the PLL must support 1pps or CPRI CDR as the reference frequency.

# 9 Table 2-32: Requirements of the PLL device
Device Description 1PPS Supported Synchronizer at least 1 number Output At least 5 channel VCO Supported integrated b. Hardware Design This unit is to recover clock from external source and generate the synchronized clock to other devices. Upon scenarios, there will be external sync source via CPRI. Reference clock from FPGA 122.88MHz To FPGA 25G Serdes 122.88MHz 122.88MHz To FPGA 10 Serdes0 122.88MHz To FPGA 10G Serdes1 CLK 125MHz For FPGA sys 250MHz For DDR function

# 15 Figure 2-34: CLK reference design for FHM8
For general FPGA device, each bank may have four SerDes channels. It is better to have separated CLK signal to each bank. Three CLK signals of 122.88MHz are needed for the FHM . One CLK signal of 125MHz is used for FPGA system, while one CLK signal of 250MHz is used for DDR device function. The input of the CLK module comes from FPGA CDR function which can get reference CLK from the CPRI line rate. Usually, one PLL device integrated with

# 20 VCO is needed.
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 65 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 6 Table 2-33: External Port List
Port Name Feature Description Fronthaul interface Eight 10Gbps SFP+ transceiver interfaces Two 25Gbps SFP+ transceiver interfaces Debug interface RJ45 for debug usage Power interface PLUG AC FEMALE for power cable b. Hardware Design

# 9 • SFP+ case and connector
The SFP+ case and connector are standardized component on the market; following figure describes the form factor of one SFP case which is integrated with connector.

# 14 Figure 2-35: SFP+ case and connector
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 66 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 6 Figure 2-36: RJ45 interface

# 7 • Power interface
The 220V AC power connector is standardized component on the market; following figure describes the form factor of one 220V AC power connector.

# 12 Figure 2-37: AC power interface
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 67 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 6 Figure 2-38: Shell Mechanical Diagram

# 7 2.6.5 Power
At minimum, fully describe the power consumptions for this white box. Include all AC/DC input or outputs and their ratings. Not mandatory but if you like you can add summary of all component's power requirement and overall white box. a. Hardware Requirements
- Power requirement: The power solution is divided into two parts.
1. Input power module: This power module must support AC to DC conversion. Usually it converts 220V AC to 48V DC. 2. Output power module: It will supply power to the O-RU connected to the FHM and also the

# 8 8
device on the FHM itself.

# 18 Table 2-34: Requirements of the power unit
Item Description Input voltage AC:100V~264V Output DC: 48V voltage Output power At least 600W Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 68 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 b. Hardware Design

# 13 2.6.6 Thermal

# 14 Active cooling.

# 15 2.6.7 Environmental and Regulations
The FHM will fulfil the requirement in 4.6.3 of [6]. Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 69 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 Annex 1 Parts Reference List According to WG7 scope and charter, component selection for example implementation of white box hardware is allowed for WG7 but would not be mandatory in any Specification. Recommended O-DU parts reference is given in table below: No. Part Number Descriptions Intel® Xeon® Processor D-2183IT Intel® Xeon® Skylake D D-2100 SoC processor

# 3 Intel® X557-AT2 Intel® 10GbE x2 Ethernet controller

# 4 Intel® I210 Intel® 1GbE Ethernet controller
ASPEED® AST-2500 ASPEED® BMC controller

# 6 UniIC® SCQ08GU03H1F1C-26V UniIC® DDR4 8GB

# 7 Powerleader® MTFDDAK480TDC- Powerleader® SSD 480GB
1AT1ZABYY

# 8 Accelink® RTXM228-551 Accelink® 10Gbps Optical module
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 70 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 Annex 2 CPRI specification reference design A2.1 Scope The present document specifies the CPRI Control Plane, User Plane and Synchronization Plane management plane protocols used over the fronthaul interface in 5G-NR. A2.2 Reference The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this text, constitute provisions of the present document.
- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition number, version number, etc.) or
non-specific.
- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including
a GSM document), a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document in Release 15. [1] 3GPP TR 21.905: “Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications” [2] Interface Specification: “CPRI Specification Common Public Radio Interface (CPRI)”, V7.0, October 2015. A2.3 Definitions and Abbreviations For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1]. Abbreviations Full name C&M Control and Management CPRI Common Public Radio Interface LOF Lost of Frame LOS Lost of Signal LSB Least Significant Bit Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 71 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 M-Plane Management Plane MSB Most Significant Bit O-DU O-RAN Distributed Unit FHM Fronthaul Multiplexer O-RU O-RAN Radio Unit RAI Remote Alarm Indication S-Plane Synchronization Plane SAP Service Access Point SDI SAP Defect Indication U-Plane User Plane A2.4 High Level Description

# 8 8 8
function for users. Optical fiber is used to carry signals between O-DU and FHM , and photoelectric composite cable

# 8 8
or network cable can be used to carry signals between FHM and O-RU . Due to upgrade evolution, cost and other

# 8 8
considerations, optoelectronic composite cable connection is preferred between FHM and O-RU .

# 8 8
Each functional entity in the system architecture is defined as follows: O-RAN Distributed Unit (O-DU ): A O-DU logical node that includes the eNB/gNB functional subset with

# 8 8
Split-8x listed in Section 4.2. Mainly realize the modulation and demodulation of baseband signals. O-RAN Radio Unit (O-RU ): A O-RU logical node that includes the eNB/gNB functional subset with Split-8x

# 8 8
listed in Section 4.2. Realize the transmission and reception of radio frequency signals. Receive the downlink signal from the FHM , modulate it into a radio frequency signal and then transmit it through the antenna; receive the radio frequency signal from the antenna, perform corresponding signal processing, and send it to the O-DU through the

# 15 FHM for processing.
O-RAN FHM : Work with O-DU and O-RU . Receive downlink data sent by O-DU and transmit to O-RU after

# 8 8 8 8 8
shunt processing; the uplink data sent by O-RU is sent to O-DU after a certain junction processing to realize

# 8 8
communication with O-DU . Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 72 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 This specification is based on option 8 CPRI fronthual interface, which can be applied to the interface between O- DU and FHM , as well as the interface between FHM and O-RU . The system architecture is shown in following

# 8 8 8 8
figure. CPRI CPRI

# O - RU
. . FHM8 . . . .

# O - R U
O-DU 8 U

# 8 O - RU
. . U . . . . F

# O - RU
CPRI

# O - RU
. . FHM8 . . . . O-RU photoelectric composite optical fiber cable or network cable

# 6 A2.4.2 Functional Split
There are many ways to split the function between O-DU and O-RU . This specification adopts the Option 8 of O-

# 8 8

# 8 RAN functional split option.
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 73 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 Following figure shows the functional split of the Option 8. In order to show the split point more intuitively, the FHM and O-RU are regarded as a whole, which is represented by O-RU in the figure.

# 8 8 8
O- D Interweave M odulation Layer Precoding Resource mapping Beamforming Add/ Remove CP Compression / Decompression Option8 O- R D C ec o o m m p p re re s s s s io io n n / Filter DA/AD c onversion

# 5 A2.4.3 Data Flow
In order to exchange information between O-DU and O-RU , the data flows required by the fronthaul interface

# 8 8
based on the split option 8 can be categorized as follows. Moreover, Table 1 shows the content mapping of the data flow. ID in the table below is just for ease of description.

# 9  User Plane
- Data flow 1a：IQ data flow in DL time domain;
- Data flow 1b：IQ data flow in UL time domain.

# 12  Control Plane

# 13 - Data flow 2a：Real-time control command issuance;
- Data flow 2b：Real-time information reporting from lower layers.

# 15  Synchronization Plane

# 16 - Data flow S：Synchronization information.

# 17  Management Plane
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 74 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# S Super frame start indicator, HFN,BFN
Plane information Management Parameter configuration, file

# M Management information
Plane management, fault management, etc A2.5 Interface Protocol Overview Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 75 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 Based on the CPRI protocol, refer to section 4.1 of the CPRI v7.0 specification, which is divided into user plane, control plane, synchronization plane and management plane. The user plane is carried by IQ data. The control plane transmits real-time control information, which is mainly carried by the vendor's specific control words and the L1 inband protocol. The synchronization plane ensures the stability of clock recovery through the assistance of line coding, and at the same time transmits time information through the control word. The management plane is carried by Ethernet.

# 8 .

# 11 A2.6.1 Supported Scenarios
This specification supports CPRI interface to carry 5G NR single-mode transmission. The specific scenarios supported include but are not limited to: 1. The CPRI interface carries a single or two 5G NR cells with a 50MHz bandwidth of 2T2R. 2. The CPRI interface carries a single or two 5G NR cells with a bandwidth of 50MHz and 4T4R. 3. The CPRI interface carries a single or two 5G NR cells with a bandwidth of 100MHz (or 80MHz) and

# 17 2T2R.
4. The CPRI interface carries a single or two 5G NR cells with a bandwidth of 100MHz (or 80MHz) and

# 19 4T4R.
5. The CPRI interface carries four 5G NR cells with a bandwidth of 100MHz (or 80MHz) and 2T2R. This specification also supports CPRI interface to carry 5G NR and 4G LTE dual-mode transmission. The specific scenarios supported include but are not limited to: 1. The CPRI interface carries a single 5G NR cell with 100MHz (or 80MHz) bandwidth and 4T4R and a Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 76 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 single 4G LTE cell with 20MHz bandwidth and 2T2R. 2. The CPRI interface carries a single 5G NR cell with 100MHz (or 80MHz) bandwidth and 4T4R and two

# 3 4G LTE cell with 20MHz bandwidth and 2T2R.
3. The CPRI interface carries two 5G NR cell with 100MHz (or 80MHz) bandwidth and 4T4R and two 4G

# 5 LTE cell with 20MHz bandwidth and 2T2R.

# 6 A2.6.2 Line Bit Rate
This specification only selects part of the line bit rates and line coding method from the CPRI specification. This specification focuses on the scenario with the maximum capacity that a line rate can carry, that is, only the upper limit is specified. 1. CPRI line bit rate option 10: 24330.24Mbps, 64B/66B line coding (48 x 491.52 x 66/64 Mbit/s). Optical fiber is used for transmission, and the optical interface rate used should not be lower than 25G. This rate is applicable to the following scenarios and other scenarios with lower rate requirements: 1) Upper limit of dual-mode: The CPRI interface carries two 5G NR cell with 100MHz bandwidth and 4T4R and two 4G LTE cell with 20MHz bandwidth and 2T2R. 2) Upper limit of single-mode: The CPRI interface carries two 5G NR cell with 100MHz bandwidth and

# 16 4T4R.
2. CPRI line bit rate option 9: 12165.12Mbps, 64B/66B line coding (24 x 491.52 x 66/64 Mbit/s). Optical fiber is used for transmission, and the optical interface rate used should not be lower than 12.5G. This rate is applicable to the following scenarios and other scenarios with lower rate requirements: 1) Upper limit of dual-mode: The CPRI interface carries a single 5G NR cell with 100MHz bandwidth and 4T4R and two 4G LTE cell with 20MHz bandwidth and 2T2R. 2) Upper limit of single-mode: The CPRI interface carries a single 5G NR cell with 100MHz bandwidth and

# 23 4T4R.
3. CPRI line bit rate option 8: 10137.6Mbps, 64B/66B line coding (20 x 491.52 x 66/64 Mbit/s). If optical fiber and photoelectric composite cable are used for transmission, the optical interface rate should not be lower than 10G. If a network cable is used for transmission, the electrical interface should support a rate of 10GE or above. (This specification temporarily does not make mandatory requirements for electrical interface transmission and its transmission format.) This rate is applicable to the following scenarios and other scenarios with lower rate requirements: 1) Upper limit of dual-mode: The CPRI interface carries a single 5G NR cell with 100MHz bandwidth and 4T4R and a single 4G LTE cell with 20MHz bandwidth and 2T2R. 2) Upper limit of single-mode: The CPRI interface carries a single 5G NR cell with 100MHz bandwidth and Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 77 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 8 8 8

# 5 RU s.

# 6 Chain topology means that FHM can be cascaded.

# 10 A2.6.4 Frame Synchronization
Interface synchronization includes providing accurate frame information, and the FHM also needs to provide frame information to subordinate FHM and O-RU . The frame timing information is calibrated by O-DU at regular

# 8 8 8
intervals to ensure the normal operation of the entire system.

# 14 A2.6.5 IQ Bit Width of User Plane
User plane data is transmitted in the form of IQ data with a width of 16 bits. However, due to the actual bandwidth requirements, IQ data compression technology is required. The compression algorithm and compression ratio are shown in Chapter 8.2.

# 18 A2.6.6 Link Maintenance
Four link-related alarms are defined in the CPRI Specification: LOS, LOF, RAI and SDI. For details, please refer to the CPRI v7.0 specification, section 4.2.10.

# 21 A2.6.7 Hot Plug Function
Support hot plug function, that is, during O-DU operation, the CPRI interface can still resume normal communication after the FHM is unplugged and plugged. During the operation of the FHM , after the O-RU

# 8 8 8
connected to it is unplugged and plugged, the CPRI interface between of them can still resume normal communication.

# 25 A2.6.8 Working Mode
In this specification, the CPRI interfaces can be applied to interfaces in the following connection modes: Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 78 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 8 8

# 8 8

# 3 3. FHM cascaded to FHM

# 8 8
A2.7 Performance Requirement

# 5 A2.7.1 Synchronization

# 6 Refer to CPRI V7.0 specification, section 4.2.8.

# 7 A2.7.2 Link Delay Accuracy

# 8 Refer to CPRI V7.0 specification, section 4.2.9.

# 11 A2.7.3 Bit Error

# 12 Refer to CPRI V7.0 specification, section 4.2.6.

# 13 A2.7.4 Layer 1 Start-up Timer

# 14 Refer to CPRI V7.0 specification, section 4.5.2.
A2.8 Interface physical layer

# 16 A2.8.1 Frame structure
The frame structure refers to cpriv 7.0 specification, section 4.2.7. As shown in the figure below. Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 79 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

## 10137.6 T=160 TCW=128 #Z.X.0,#Z.X.1,#Z.X.2,#Z.X.3,
#Z.X.4,#Z.X.5,#Z.X.6,#Z.X.7,#Z.X.

## 12165.12 T=192
8,#Z.X.9,#Z.X.10,#Z.X.11,#Z.X.12,

## 24330.24 T=384 #Z.X.13,#Z.X.14,#Z.X.15
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 80 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 According to CPRI protocol, the first Tcw bits of the first word (w = 0) in each basic frame are used as control words. If Tcw is less than t, the remaining T-Tcw bits in the word w = 0 can be used to transmit real-time control information.

# 4 A2.8.2 IQ data compression
In the specification, we stipulate that IQ data compression is implemented by block floating point compression algorithm, the specific algorithm is listed in the appendix A.1, after compression the bit width of IQ data is eight bits. The unit of IQ compression is called a compression block. The corresponding compression information bit width (shared exponent of compression block) is four bits in each compression block. In the specification, all samples of same antenna-carrier in a basic frame are treated as a compression block. Take an antenna-carrier of one NR cell of 100MHz bandwidth for example, compression block contains 32 samples of IQ data. If CPRI is carrying four antennas of an NR cell, there are four compression blocks in a basic frame. Take an antenna-carrier of one LTE cell of 20MHz bandwidth for example, compression block contains 8 samples of IQ data. If CPRI is carrying two antennas of an LTE cell, there are two compression blocks in a basic frame.

# 16 A2.8.3 IQ data mapping
The unit of IQ data mapping is a basic frame, the total area starts form W=1,Y=0,which contains compression information (shared exponent of compression block), IQ data and automatic gain control(AGC) in basic frame. In this specification there are default mapping modes of IQ data in different scenarios, which are listed in the appendix B. Start position and end position for IQ data and compression information data for each antenna are configured by M plane parameters. Samples of each antenna-carrier, compression information data of each compression block and arrangement of bits of AGC should follow the rules below. 1. IQ data. In one sample of antenna-carrier, the bits of I data and the bits of Q data arrange alternately. As shown in the figure 6, I0 is LSB, I7 is MSB. 2. Compression information data. The arrangement of bits in compression information data is shown in the figure 7. E0 is LSB, E3 is MSB in this. Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 81 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 3. Automatic gain control (AGC) data. We use four bits of binary data to describe the link gain of each antenna, Zero corresponds to the maximal link gain. Every time the receiving link gain go down by 2db, the AGC value go up by 1. The field should be filled with default value 0 if it’s not used. The internal bit sequence is the same as bit sequence of compression information, as shown in the figure 7, in which E0 is LSB,E3 is MSB.

# 9 A2.8.4 Superframe Structure

# 10 Refer to section 4.2.7.3 of CPRI v7.0 specification.

# 13 A2.8.5 Subchannel Definition

# 14 Refer to section 4.2.7.4 of CPRI v7.0 specification

# 15 A2.8.6 Synchronize Data
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 82 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 3 Refer to section 4.2.7.6 of CPRI v7.0 specification.

# 4 A2.8.8 C&M data channel
This specification support C&M channel option 2 in CPRI protocol: Fast C&M channel that is based on Ethernet. The initial position of Ethernet channel is indicated by pointer p in the hyperframe. Pointer p is carried by #Z.194.0. Refer to section 4.2.7.6 of CPRI v7.0 specification about the definition of pointer p. In this specification, the value of pointer p is fixed value 20.

# 9 A2.8.9 Reserved control word
In order to ensure the extensibility of future protocols, some control words need to be retained. Refer to section

# 11 4.2.7.8 of CPRI v7.0 specification.
A2.9 Data link layer The data link layer supports fast C&M channel. For the definition of fast C&M channel, please refer to section

# 14 4.2.7.7.2 of CPRI v 7.0 specification.
The data rate of fast C&M channel (i.e. Ethernet rate) is shown in the table below.

## 24330.24 ,#Z.X.11,#Z.X.12,#Z.X.13,#Z.X.14,#Z.X.15
A2.10 Appendix - Compression Methods

# 3 A2.10.1 Block floating point compression
The following is the representation of block floating point compression. I sample data of each compression unit and Q sample data of each compression unit are converted to floating point data. A original compression unit contains several (for example 32) sample data that are represented by fixed bit width and signed integers. Each IQ sample is represented by sign and mantissa (for example 8 bits) and a shared exponent (see figure 8) in compressed compression unit. Figure Annex2- 8 : Representation of block floating point compression Find the Use the shared Signed integer maximum Output the representation exponent to amplitude compressed IQ of IQ data calculate the value of IQ data value mantissa data Figure Annex2- 9 Process of block floating point compression Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 84 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 4 Input
 fBlock - Original data block that is of the size of a compression block, for example,32 samples with the original word length, each sample contains a 16 bits I sample data and a 16 bits Q sample data.  iqWidth - Compressed word length (contains signed bit), for example, compressed I and Q are respectively represented by 8 bits.

# 9 Output：
 cBlock - Compressed data block. The size is a compression block, for example, 32 samples with the original word length  exponent – shared exponent of compression block. I and Q samples use the same exponent which contains expWidth bits. For example, expWidth = 1+log2(16-8) = 4; // Find max and min maxV = max(Re(fBlock), Im(fBlock)), minV = min(Re(fBlock), Im(fBlock)) // Determine max absolute value maxValue = max(maxV, |minV|-1) (msb of negative value can be one higher) // Calculate exponent raw_exp = [floor(log (maxValue) +1)] (msb of maxValue) // Calculate shift value and limit to positive exponent = max(raw_exp – iqWidth + 1, 0) // Determine right shift value scaler = 2-exponent For iSample = 1:length(fBlock) //Scale and round: Re(cBlock(iSample)) = Quantize (scaler × Re(fBlock(iSample))) /* mult. could be bit- shift, Quantize could be or-round */ Im(cBlock(iSample)) = Quantize (scaler × Im(fBlock(iSample))) /* mult. could be bit-shift, Quantize could be or-round */ End

# 16 A2.10.3 Block floating point decompression algorithm
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 85 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 The following is the pseudocode for a reference implementation of the decompression algorithm.

# 5 Output：
 fBlock - Decompressed data block, for example, 32 samples with the original word length, each sample contains a 16bits I sample data and a 16bits Q sample data. //Determine scaler scaler = 2exponent For iSample = 1:length(cBlock) //Scale Re(fBlock(iSample)) = scaler × Re(cBlock(iSample)) /* this could be replaced with a bit-shift operation */ Im(fBlock(iSample)) = scaler × Im(cBlock(iSample)) /* this could be replaced with a bit-shift operation */ End A2.11 Appendix - Typical mode of IQ mapping A2.11.1 IQ mapping mode( line bit rate of 10137.6Mbps) This article presents the IQ mappings modes at a line bit rate of 10137.6Mbps for different scenarios. Scenario 1: One 5G cell with 4T4R antennas and 100M/80M bandwidth at line bit rate of 10137.6Mbps and one 4G cell with 2T2R antennas and 20M bandwidth at line bit rate of 10137.6Mbps, whose IQ data mapping mode is shown in the figure below. The W=1, #Z.X.0-2 area is compression information data(compression block 's shared exponent) area, The W=15, #Z.X.17-19 area is AGC area. The order of data for antennas in each of these two areas is the same as the order in IQ data area. Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 86 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 Figure Annex2- 10: Dual mode IQ data compression at a line rate of 10137.6Mbps Situation 2 : IQ data compression of two neighborhoods by 2T2R with 100M/80M bandwidth at a line rate of 10137.6Mbps is shown in the figure below. The W=1, #Z.X.0-1 area is compression information data(compression block 's public index) area, The W=15, #Z.X.18-19 area is AGC area. The marshalling sequence of the internal antennas of each of the two areas is the same as marshalling sequence of antennas of IQ data area. Figure Annex2- 11 : IQ data compression of two neighborhoods by 2T2R with 100M bandwidth at a line rate of 10137.6Mbps Situation 3: IQ data compression of one neighborhood by 4T4R with 100M/80M bandwidth at a line rate of 10137.6Mbps is shown in the figure below. The W=1, #Z.X.0-1 area is compression information data (compression Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 87 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 block’s public index) area, The W=15, #Z.X.18-19 area is AGC area. The marshalling sequence of the internal antennas of each of the two areas is the same as marshalling sequence of antennas of IQ data area. Figure Annex2- 12 : IQ data compression of one neighborhood by 4T4R with 100M bandwidth at a line rate of 10137.6Mbps Situation 4: IQ data compression of one neighborhood by 2T2R with 100M/80M bandwidth at a line rate of 10137.6Mbps is shown in the figure below. The W=1, #Z.X.0 area is compression information data (compression block 's public index) area, The W=15, #Z.X.19 area is AGC area. The marshalling sequence of the internal antennas of each of the two areas is the same as marshalling sequence of antennas of IQ data area. Figure Annex2- 13 : IQ data compression of one neighborhood by 2T2R with 100M bandwidth at a line rate of 10137.6Mbps A2.11.2 IQ mapping mode( a line rate of 12165.12Mbps) Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 88 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 Situation 1: One NR neighborhood by 4T4R with 100M bandwidth at a line rate of 12165.12Mbps and two LTE neighborhoods by 2T2R with 20M bandwidth at a line rate of 12165.12Mbps, who’s the IQ data mapping mode is shown in the figure below in the situation. The W=1, #Z.X.0-3 area is compression information data (compression block’s public index) area, The W=15, #Z.X.20-23 area is AGC area. The marshalling sequence of the internal antennas of each of the two areas is the same as marshalling sequence of antennas of IQ data area. Figure Annex2- 14 : Dual mode IQ data compression at a line rate of 12165.12Mbps A2.11.3 IQ mapping mode( a line rate of 24330.24Mbps) This article presents the IQ mappings modes at a line rate of 24330.24Mbps for different situation. Situation 1: Two NR neighborhoods by 4T4R with 100M/80M bandwidth at a line rate of 24330.24Mbps and two LTE neighborhoods by 2T2R with 20M bandwidth at a line rate of 24330.24Mbps, whose IQ data mapping mode is shown in the figure below in the situation. The W=1, #Z.X.0-5 area is compression information data (compression block’s public index) area, The W=15, #Z.X.42-47 area is AGC area. The marshalling sequence of the internal antennas of each of the two areas is the same as marshalling sequence of antennas of IQ data area. Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 89 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 Figure Annex2- 15 : Dual mode IQ data compression at a line rate of 24330.24Mbps Situation 2: IQ data compression of two neighborhoods by 4T4R with 100M/80M bandwidth at a line rate of 24330.24Mbps is shown in the figure below. The W=1, #Z.X.0-3 area is compression information data (compression block’s public index) area, The W=15, #Z.X.44-47 area is AGC area. The marshalling sequence of the internal antennas of each of the two areas is the same as marshalling sequence of antennas of IQ data area. Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 90 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 Figure Annex2- 16 : IQ data compression of two neighborhoods by 4T4R with 100M/80M bandwidth at a line rate of 24330.24Mbps Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 91 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 Annex 3 Option 8 CPRI spec reference design – Management plane A3.1 Scope This chapter includes management of O-RU based on Option8 CPRI protocol connection. A3.2 References [1] 3GPP TR 21.905: “Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications” [2] ORAN-WG4.MP.0-v03.00.00 [3] ORAN-WG4.CUS.0-v03.00 [4] RFC 6241, “Network Configuration Protocol (NETCONF)”, IETF, June 2011 [5] SFF-8472v11, “Diagnostic Monitoring Interface for Optical Transceivers”, SFF Committee, September 2010 [6] SFF-8636v2.9.3, “Specification for Management Interface for Cabled Environment”, SFF Committee, April 2019 [7] IEEE 802.1ag, “IEEE Standard for Local and Metropolitan Area Networks Virtual Bridged Local Area Networks Amendment 5: Connectivity Fault Management”, IEEE, 2007 [8] MEF.38, “Service OAM Fault management YANG Modules”, Metro Ethernet Forum, April 2012 [9] G.8275.1 Precision time protocol telecom profile for phase/time synchronization with full timing support from the network ITU June 2016. [10] G.810 Definitions and terminology for synchronization networks ITU August 1996.[11] 1588v2-2008 IEEE Standard for a Precision Clock Synchronization Protocol for Networked Measurement and Control Systems IEEE 2008 A3.3 Overview of NETCONF Configuration Management Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 92 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 3 A3.4.1 Specific Conventions
DHCP related requirements refer to RFC2131，RFC2132 SSHv2 related requirements mainly refer to RFC4252，RFC4253 NETCONF connection related requirments refer to RFC8071，RFC6242，RFC8341 A comparison of the differences between this chapter and the O-RAN M-plane Specification [1] is shown in the following table.

# 8 8 8
M-plane is configured in the O-RU , a DHCP server uses this information. The DHCPv4 Option 60 Vendor Class Identifier as defined in RFC2132 can be used as identification of O-RU in DHCPv4, as shown in following table:

# 11 A3.4.3.2 VLAN detection and discovery
In the current version of this specification, an untagged interface is used for sending and receiving messages of the M-plane by the M-plane.

# 14 A3.4.3.3 IP address assignment
Please refer to RFC2131 and RFC4361 for a DHCP discovery process which is involved in obtaining IP addresses of O-RU M-plane. The IP address of O-RU M-plane is assigned automatically, and the DHCP server should perform static binding operation, i.e., ensure that the same IP address of M-plane are always assigned to O- Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 98 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 RU s identified by the same client hardware address, e.g., the IP address of M-plane assigned remains unchanged after an O-RU reboot.

# 3 A3.4.3.4 M-plane client detection and discovery
The DHCP server uses Vendor Specific Option 43 of DHCPv4 to send NETCONF client information to O-RU . Following table defines the encoding format for NETCONF client information when the prefix type of DHCPv4 Option 43 at the Vendor Class is o-ran-ru. Table Annex3- 5 TLV format of NETCONF client information O-RU uses DHCPv4 Option 43 an o-ran-ru Type Length Value prefix to report Type: 0x01-O-RU Hexadecimal Hexadecimal IP vendor-class controller IP encoding of a address address length value in bytes

# 14 A3.4.4 Secure Transport Layer SSH Connection

# 15 A3.4.4.1 Establishing NETCONF Call Home M-plane TCP connection
O-RU initiates a NETCONF session to O-DU after it obtains address information of M-plane and

# 8 8
O-DU (NETCONF client) information. If it fails to establish the session, the O-RU will perform a

# 8 8
Call Home process to O-DU repeatedly and periodically according to a timer “recall-home-to-ssh- timer”, until the session is established successfully. Using port 4334 of NETCONF Call Home client O-DU receives the Call Home TCP connection initiated by O-RU , please refer to RFC8071 for the process. Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 99 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 M-plane of a fronthual interface is established by using a method of SSHv2 password authentication.

# 3 A3.4.4.2 Establishing M-plane SSH connection
The O-RU serves as the SSHv2 server, and the O-DU serves as the client. Before the O-RU sends

# 8 8 8
or receives password authentication-based data or any configuration/status data, the O-DU (which is also a NETCONF client) should verify and authenticate O-RU ’s ID. The O-DU authenticates the O-RU by using public key-based host authentication. Refer to

# 8 8
RFC4253 for the main process. The O-RU shall verify and authenticate the O-DU ’s ID before it can receive any configuration or

# 8 8
reporting status data sent by the O-DU . Refer to RFC4253 for the main process. After the initialization of the starting system, the O-RU is configured as a default account, e.g., the default user account is named “oranuser”. It needs to define a default password for the default account and configure the default password in the O-RU , for example, as “o-ran-password”.

# 17 A3.4.5 NETCONF Connection

# 18 A3.4.5.1 M-plane interchange capability set
The O-RU notifies its NETCONF capability in the NETCONF Hello message. The Hello message indicates standard features defined in the supported NETCONF RFC6241, as well as the specific namespace. The NETCONF capability for interaction between the O-RU and the NETCONF client is shown in following table:

# 8 8
hw/hardware/component mfg-name: name of O-RU manufacturer; serial-num: serial number of O-RU ; software-rev: O-RU software component. o-ran-hardware/hardware/component/ product-code: product code defined by O-RAN; o-ran-operations/operational-info/declarations supported-mplane-version: version of O-RAN M-plane interface; supported-cusplane-version: version of O-RAN CUS-plane interface; Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 101 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 supported-header-mechanism: type of CU-plane message header supported by O-RU ; o-ran-operations/operational-state restart-cause: reasons for the most recent reboot; o-ran-sync/sync sync-state: synch state of O-RU .

# 6 A3.4.5.3 Access privilege of M-plane
In order to support interoperability of management control of the fronthual interface, the O-RU , which serves as an NETCONF server, should use the IETF NETCONF Access 34 Control Model defined by RFC8341. The O-DU accesses the O-RU as a NETCONF Client [A1], and uses “sudo” privilege.

# 8 8
Following table defines model operation privilege for the sudo user.

# 8 “oranuser”.
The default account has an account type PASSWORD, in which case the default password needs to be defined and configured in O-RU , e.g., “o-ran-password”.

# 11 A3.4.5.5 Keeping M-plane connection alive
When performing a session with an O-DU8 (NETCONF Client) with “sudo” access privileges, the O-RU operates a “watchdog” timer to monitor durability of the session with the O-DU

# 8 8
(NETCONF Client). The O-RU indicates the O-DU (NETCONF Client) that its management

# 8 8
system is running via NETCONF notifications. Whenever the O-RU establishes a NETCONF session with an O-DU with “sudo” privileges, the

# 8 8
O-DU shall enable the “watchdog” timer by creating a <supervision-notification> subscription operation. After monitoring the subscription, the O-RU should send monitoring notifications repeatedly. The O-DU is responsible for sending the <supervision-watchdog-reset>RPC, and the O-RU should

# 8 8
reply with a timestamp for sending the next notification. When reset the “watchdog” timer, O-DU (NETCONF Client) can set a new value for the “watchdog” timer, without receiving a <supervision-notification> from O-RU . The new value will take effect immediately based on the contents of the <supervision-watchdog-reset> RPC, and the next <supervision-notification> should be no later than the timestamp provided in the RPC reply. The O-RU will enter a “monitoring failure” state when the O-RU fails to receive the <supervision-

# 8 8
watchdog-reset>RPC after the “watchdog” timer times out. The O-RU should close the “watchdog” timer immediately when all NETCONF sessions between O-RU and O-DU

# 8 8

# 29 (NETCONF Client) with “sudo” privileges have been closed.

# 30 Basic procedure:
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 104 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 Figure 4-x shows the monitoring subscription and notification process for the NETCONF connection between O-RU and O-DU .

# 8 8

# 5 3) The RU updates reporting time by rpc：next-update-at
4) The RU reports supervision-notification to the O-DU 8 (the default time is 60s) 5) The DU resets the “watchdog” timer by rpc：supervision-watchdog-rese after the supervision-

# 8 6) notification is received from the O-RU 8

# 9 The RU updates reporting time by rpc: next-update-at
7)

# 11 Notes:
 Steps 3-4 may be performed after O-RU activation or Step 1.

# 13  Steps 5-7 are repeated.
 The O-RU will enter a “monitoring failure” state when the O-RU fails to receive the

# 8 8
supervision-watchdog-reset after the “watchdog” timer times out.

# 16 A3.4.5.6 Disconnecting M-plane
The O-DU closes an existing NETCONF session by executing a RPC<close-session> command. The O-RU responds to the command and closes an SSHv2 session. The O-RU then restarts the call

# 8 8
home procedure.

# 20 A3.4.5.7 System Time Synchronization
Since the clock in o-ran-operations.yang only synchronizes time zone, it cannot synchronize system time information, o-ran-system-time.yang is added to set the time of FHM and O-RU , which can

# 8 8
be used for clock configuration of information such as log.

# 24 Basic procedure:
1. Time synchronization is mandatory when a NETCONF session is established. Time synchronization also needs to be triggered when the O-DU ’s system time changes. 2. In order to avoid the time difference between O-DU and FHM and O-RU caused by

# 8 8 8
transmission delay, O-DU needs to determine time interval with RPC message when it receives RPC Reply, if the interval is more than 1 second, re-synchronization is required. A3.5 Interface Management

# 31 A3.5.1 CPRI Interface Management
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 106 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 Content of CPRI interface management mainly includes configurating CPRI basic attribute parameters, as well as establishing CPRI U-plane data flow model, and transceiver parameter acquisition and the like.

# 4 A3.5.1.1 YANG model
Please refer to o-ran-interface-cpri.yang for CPRI basic attribute parameters configuration. Please refer to o-ran-processing-element-cpri.yang for CPRI U-plane data flow configurartion.

# 7 Please refer to o-ran-tranceiver.yang for transceiver parameter acquisition.

# 8 A3.5.1.2 Dataflow model of CPRI U-plane
Dataflow model of CPRI U-plane, o-ran-processing-elements-cpri.yang, which is formed based on extension and definition of the existing O-RAN data flow model, o-ran-processing-elements.yang, specifically includes:
- creating a new type of transport session, and the new transport-session-type is CPRI interface
type, CPRI-INTERFACE;
- abstracting an IQ datablock portion in a CPRI frame structure into multiple CPRI dataflows,
cpri-flow, depending on the logical function carried;
- specifying a physical CPRI interface corresponding to each CPRI dataflow via interface-name
parameters;
- distinguishing different dataflows transported over the physical CPRI interface by different
string name parameters; and
- indicating finally that each device can support one or more physical CPRI interfaces, and each
physical CPRI interface can carry multiple CPRI dataflows.

# 23 Each CPRI dataflow cpri-flow includes the following parameters:
Iq-data-start-bit: identifying a start bit of IQ data for this cpri-flow; iq-data-end-bit: identifying an end bit of IQ data for this cpri-flow.

# 26 Moreover, one additional parameter is required:
compression-flag: for describing whether compression is performed on the IQ data. No if the bit is false, and yes if the bit is true. If this parameter is set as false, the inband-compression-start-bit and inband-compression-end- bit no longer take effect. Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 107 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 inband-compression-start-bit: for describing a start bit of compression information for this cpri- flow. It is recommended to arrange from the initial position of the CPRI to avoid fragmentation. inband-compression-end-bit: for describing an end bit of the compression information of this cpri-flow. It is recommended to arrange from the initial position of the CPRI to avoid fragmentation. agc-start-bit: for describing an agc start bit of this cpri-flow. To avoid fragmentation, it is recommended that the AGC be arranged near the end position of the CPRI to avoid fragmentation. This parameter is ignored when AGC is not used. agc-end-bit: for describing an agc end bit of this cpri-flow. It is recommended that the AGC be arranged near the end position of the CPRI to avoid fragmentation. This parameter is ignored when AGC is not used. Figure Annex3- 2 Bit position under 10.1376Gbps line rate The following example 1 is a configuration example with IQ data compressed, where cpri flow 0 corresponding to 100 MHz NR cell’s antenna 0 and cpri flow 1 corresponding to 100 MHz NR cell’s antenna 1: Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 108 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 Figure Annex3- 3 10.1376Gbps line rate 100MHz 2T2R mapping relationship

# 6 The start-bit end-bit
Cpri true 64 575 0 3 2392 2395 flow 0 Cpri true 576 1087 4 7 2396 2399 flow 1 following example 2 is a configuration example with IQ data uncompressed, where cpri flow 0 corresponding to 100 MHz NR cell’s antenna 0 and cpri flow 1 corresponding to 100 MHz NR cell’s antenna 1: Figure Annex3- 4 Two uncompressed cpri-flows under 10.1376Gbps line rate of example 2 Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 109 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 Table Annex3- 9 Parameter configuration of two uncompressed cpri-flows under 10.1376Gbps line rate compressio iq-start- iq-end- inband- inband- agc- agc- n-flag bit bit compression- compression- start-bit end-bit start-bit end-bit Cpri false 0 1087 0 0 2392 2395 flow 0 Cpri false 1088 2111 0 0 2396 2399 flow 1

# 5 A3.5.1.3 Transceiver parameter acquisition
The eCPRI transceiver parameter acquisition defined by O-RAN specification can be used in the

# 7 CPRI transceiver parameter acquisition.
O-ran-interface-cpri.yang and o-ran-tranceiver.yang are associated via a port-number under cpri- interface, to represent corresponding receiver parameters on the port-number interface.

# 10 A3.5.1.3.1 Procedure

# 11 A3.5.1.3.2 Transceiver Procedure

# 12 Pre-condition:
M-plane connection between the NETCONF client and the O-RU is established.

# 14 Post-condition:
At the end of this procedure, the NETCONF client obtains the O-RU transceiver module information.

# 17 Basic procedure:
1) During a start-up phase, the O-RU detects the transceiver module and stores data information from a transceiver module in a file; 2) The NETCONF client obtains the file according to an upload process of netconf-yang file.

# 21 3) Exception:
 If the transceiver module is inserted during the file upload process, then the process will provide a file with previous content, or fails.  If the FHM is unable to extract data from the transceiver module, or the file does not Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 110 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 exist, then the FHM will not create file or delete the file previously created (note: the file upload will fails because the upload process requests a file that does not exist).

# 3 A3.5.1.3.3 M-plane configuration procedure of CPRI interface

# 4 Pre-condition:
M-plane connection between the NETCONF client and the O-RU is established.

# 6 Post-condition:
At the end of this procedure, the O-RU CPRI U-plane configuration is completed.

# 8 Basic procedure:
CPRI link U-plane information is configured according to newly defined o-ran-processing-element- cpri model. The configuration information includes whether to compress IQ data, start bit position of IQ data, end bit position of IQ data, start bit position of compression information, end bit position of compression information, AGC start bit position, AGC end bit position and the like. After completing IQ configuration process for the CPRI interface, CPRI mapping relationship on a southbound CPRI interface is determined. Different IQ configurations are required on the CPRI interfaces for different cell bandwidth and antenna configurations. A3.6 Software Management The Software Management function provides a set of operations allowing the desired software build to be downloaded, installed and activated at the O-RU . Successful software activation operation does not mean an O-RU is running the just activated software build. An RPC<reset> operation is required to trigger the O-RU to take the activated software build into operational use.A single software build may be considered as set of internally consistent files compliant within such a build. Software build is a subject of versioning and maintenance and as such cannot be broken. Replacement of files within a build is prohibited, as this will cause software version incompatibility. The use of compression and ciphering for the content of the software build is left to vendor implementation. The only file which shall never be ciphered is the manifest.xml file.It is also Vendor’s responsibility to handle software build/ package/ file integrity check.The O-RU provides a set of so called “software slot” or “slot”. Each slot provides an independent storage location for a single software build. The number of slots offered by O-RU depends on the devices’ capabilities. At least two writable slots shall be available at the O-RU for failsafe update operation. Presence of read only software slot is optional. The software slots are resources provided by the O- RU and as such are not the subject of creation and deletion. The size of individual software slot is fixed and determined by the O-RU ’s vendor and sufficient to accommodate the full software build. Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 111 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 8 8
transport certification and public certification and public certification key(DSA/RSA) list-based key(DSA/RSA) list- sFTP server certification; based sFTP server certification certificate based O-RU and sFTP server certification

# 6 A3.6.1.2 YANG model
Please refer to o-ran-software-management.yang model for relative detailed definitions of

# 8 NETCONF.

# 9 A3.6.1.3 Conception and terms

# 10 Translation of basic concepts in this chapter:
Package--software package: a package contains one or more builds. Build--software compilation package: a build can be considered as set of internally consistent files, and a specific hardware type corresponds to the corresponding build. Software-slot--software storage area: Each software-slot is an independent storage space, and each software build is stored in a different software-slot. The number of software-slots offered by

# 16 O-RU depends on the device’s storage capacity.
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 112 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 3 The package is delivered by the O-RU vendor.

# 4 Each package includes:

# 5  manifest.xml

# 6  software files to be installed on O-RU
The name of package should follow the following format:

# 8 “<Vendor Code><Vendor Specific Filed>[#NUMBER].EXT”

# 9 Where:
 Vendor Code is a mandatory part which has two capital characters,  Vendor Specific Field is a mandatory part and consists of characters used to define a filename. The value must not include character “_” (underscore) or “#” (hash). The value can be defined per vendor for the human readable information. Version information is necessary in the Vendor

# 14 Specific Field which defines load version,
 NUMBER is optional and used when the original file is split into smaller pieces – number after “#” indicates the number of a piece. Numbering starts from 1 and must be continuous;  EXT is a mandatory part which defines the extension of filename. A vendor provides one or more software packages. Each software package shall be compressed by zip. Note: the name of package needs a <Vendor Code> prefix to avoid issue if two vendors provide files with same name. Note: the NETCONF client shall support ZIP functionality to enable support of compressed files types. Note: the operator needs to manage and control which O-RU files will be stored and used in the file server, e.g., based on O-RU files provided by O-RU vendors and network configurations. The

# 8 8
operator needs to make sure that only the expected version of O-RU files will be transferred from the file server to the O-RU . Different versions of files for O-RU with the same vendor and same

# 8 8
product code should be avoided. The content of the manifest.xml file allows to maintain software update process correctly in terms of compatibility between O-RU hardware and software build to be downloaded. The content of the Manifest file prohibits the O-RU from installing software builds designed for device based on different hardware. The format of the manifest.xml file is: <xml> <manifest version=“1.0”> /// @version describes version of file format (not the content) Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 113 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 <products> <product vendor=“XX” code=“0818820\.x11” name=“RUXX.x11” build-Id=“1”/> <product vendor=“XX” code=“0818820\.x12” name=“RUXX.x12” build-Id=“1”/> <product vendor=“XX” code=“0818818\…” name=“RUYY” build-Id=“2”/> /// @vendor is as reported by O-RU8 /// @code is a regular expression that is checked against productCode reported by O-RU8 /// @name is optional and used for human reading – MUST NOT be used for other purposes! /// @buildId is value of build@id (see below) </products> <builds> <build id=“1” bldName=“xyz” bldVersion=“1.0”> /// @id is index of available builds. /// @bldName and @bldVersion are used in YANG (build-name, build-version) <file fileName=“xxxx” fileVersion=“1.0” path=“full-file_name-with-path-relative-to-package-root-folder” checksum=“FAA898”/> <file fileName=“yyyy” fileVersion=“2.0” path=“full-file_name-with-path-relative-to-package-root-folder” checksum=“AEE00C”/ > /// @fileName and @fileVersion are used in YANG (name, version) /// @path is full path (with name and extension) of a physical file, relative to package root folder,used in YANG (local-path) /// @checksum is used to Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 114 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 chech file integrity on O-RU8 side </build> <build id=“2” bldName=“xyz” bldVersion=“1.0”> <file fileName=“xxxx” fileVersion=“1.0” path=“full-file_name-with-path-relative-to-package-root-folder” checksum=“FAA898”/> <file fileName=“yyyy” fileVersion=“2.0” path=“full-file_name-with-path-relative-to-package-root-folder” checksum=“AEE00C”/> <file fileName=“zzzz” fileVersion=“1.5” path=“full-file_name-with-path-relative-to-package-root-folder” checksum=“ABCDEF”/> </build> </builds> </manifest> </xml> Note: Keywords in manifest.xml example are in bold, the keywords must be strictly followed considering of cross-vendor cases. Note: Correspondency between content of manifest.xml tags and content of o-ran-software- management.yang is:
- XML tag “product vendor” corresponds to content of leaf “vendor-code”,
- XML tag “code” corresponds to content of leaf “product-code”,
- XML tag “build-Id” corresponds to content of leaf “build-id”,
- XML tag “bldName” corresponds to content of leaf “build-name”,
- XML tag “bldVersion” corresponds to content of leaf “build-version”,
- XML tag “fileName” corresponds to content of leaf “name” in list “files”,
-XML tag “fileVersion” corresponds to content of leaf “version” in list “files”.

# 12 A3.6.3 Software Inventory Query Procedure

# 13 Pre-condition:
When M-plane NETCONF session is established, this procedure can be started.

# 15 Post-condition:
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 115 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 NETCONF client successfully collected the software inventory information from NETCONF server at the end of this procedure.

# 3 Basic procedure:
The figure below shows an example of the software inventory query procedure. Figure Annex3- 5 Example of software inventory query procedure 1) NETCONF client sends rpc get operation to NETCONF server to query software-slot. 2) The NETCONF server sends rpc-reply to the NETCONF client to return detailed information about the software-slot.

# 11 Notes:
 Please refer too-ran-software-management.yang model for detailed information about software- slot.  If a slot contains a file with integrity NOK, the O-RU shall mark the whole slot with status as

# 15 INVALID.
 The content of a software-slot is fully under O-RU ’s management - including removal of the content occupying the slot (in case the slot is subject of software update procedure), control of file system consistency and so on. The slot content shall not be removed until there is a need for new software to be installed.  The empty slot parameters shall be set by NETCONF server as follows: name: up to vendor, not empty; Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 116 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 status: INVALID; active: False; running: False; access: READ_WRITE; product-code: up to vendor; vendor code: up to vendor; build-name: null; build-version: null; files: empty.

# 10 A3.6.4 Software Download Procedure

# 11 Pre-condition:
When M-plane connection is established, software download procedure can be started.

# 13 Post-condition:
O-RU downloads all files specified and successfully stores the downloaded files in the O-RU ’s

# 8 8
file system at the end of this procedure.

# 16 Basic procedure:
The figure below shows an example of the software download procedure. Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 117 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 4 NETCONF client send software-download operation to NETCONF server.
The NETCONF server replies to the NETCONF client with software-download state. 1) O-RU transports software files by using sFTP protocol. 2) The NETCONF server sends a download-event notification to the NETCONF client. 3) If there are multiple software files to be downloaded, the above will be repeated until all of files

# 9 4) have been downloaded.
5)

# 10 Notes:
 The NETCONF client determines the software file to be downloaded according to hardware information of the O-RU (vendor number, product number, product name, etc.) and the manifest.xml file of the software package.  The software download sFTP transmission supports the following types of authentication: password-based O-RU authentication and public key (DSA/RSA) list-based sFTP server authentication.

# 17 A3.6.5 Software Installation Procedure

# 18 Pre-conditions:

# 19  M-plane NETCONF session established.
 At least one software slot with a status of active::False and running::False in O-RU .  Software Download has been completed successfully and files are available in O-RU .

# 22 Post-condition:
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 118 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00  O-RU software is installed in the specified target software-slot.

# 11  STARTED: software install operation has been started;
 FAILED: software install operation could not be proceeded, reason for failure in error- message. When O-RU completes the software install or software install procedure fails, the O-RU will send

# 8 8
NETCONF install-event notification with one of the following statuses: Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 119 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 4  INTEGRITY_ERROR: file is corrupted;

# 5  APPLICATION_ERROR: operation failed due to internal reason.
When the software install commences, the O-RU shall set the slot status to INVALID. After the install procedure finishes, the O-RU shall change the slot status to its appropriate status. This operation avoids reporting of inaccurate status when the install procedure is in operation or when it is interrupted (e.g., by spurious reset operation).

# 10 A3.6.6 Software Activation Procedure

# 11 Precondition:

# 12  M-Plane NETCONF session established.
 Software slot to be activated has status VALID.

# 14 Post-conditions:
 O-RU software activates to the version of software slot.

# 16 Basic procedure:
The software activation procedure is shown in FIG. 33. Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 120 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 7  STARTED: software activation operation has been started;
 FAILED: software activation operation could not be proceeded, reason for failure in error-message. Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 121 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 When the activation is completed, the O-RU shall send the NETCONF activation-event notification with the status of activation. The following status is returned in the NETCONF activation-event notifications:  COMPLETED: activation procedure is successfully completed. O-RU must be restarted via NETCONF reset rpc for the new software activated.

# 6  APPLICATION_ERROR: operation fails due to internal reason.
Only one software slot can be active at one time. Thus, software-activate command will set active::True to the slot that was provided in the rpc and automatically set active::False to the previously activated slot. NETCONF reset rpc shall be sent to O-RU to activate the version of the software slot. O-RU

# 8 8
restarts and performs startup procedure as described in Chapter 3 as regular startup with new software version running.

# 13 A3.6.7 Software Update Procedure

# 14 Basic Software Update Procedure is as following:

# 12 7. O-RU sets installation slot status to INVALID.
8. O-RU installs the software and after successful installation (with checksum control) changes status of the slot to VALID. 9. O-RU notifies the NETCONF client that the installation is finished using install-event notification. 10. NETCONF client requests the O-RU to activate the newly installed software using the software-activate rpc. 11. O-RU sends rpc response that activation was started. 12. For requested slot, O-RU changes active::True and at the same time sets active::False on previously active slot. 13. O-RU notifies NETCONF client about activation finished using the activation-event notification. 14. NETCONF client restarts the O-RU forcing it to use the newly installed and activated software. The O-RU restarts as regular startup with new software version running.

# 26 A3.6.8 Factory Reset
O-RU can be reset to the factory default software by activating the software-slot containing the factory default software and initiating NETCONF reset rpc. O-RU may clear persistent memory data during factory reset as vendor implementation option. This function is optional. A3.7 Fault Management

# 31 A3.7.1 Specific Conventions
This chapter refers to Chapter 8 and Appendix A of the O-RAN M Plane Specification [3]. Because of the general nature of alarm management, this chapter basically follows the original specification in terms of functions, procedures and options. In order to improve the readability of the Chinese version, the content of the original text has been modified and the fault levels described in Appendix A have been moved to Section 4.5.2.6. In Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 123 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 addition, in order to maintain the consistency of the revised text, some notes have been added to help reader to understand.

# 3 A3.7.2 Overview of Fault

# 4 A3.7.2.1 Overall situation
The O-RAN fault management mechanism is based on O-RAN NETCONF management framework and the specification covers alarm management of O-RU . The mechanism includes two types of operation body, an alarm server and an alarm client which are simplified as Server and

# 8 Client below in this section.

# 9 Operation body:
1) Server: NETCONF server, as defined in Basic Conventions of Chapter 1. 2) Client: NETCONF client, as defined in Basic Conventions of Chapter 1. The server is the main body for maintaining fault information. It maintains an “active-alarm-list” (including Critical, Major and Minor levels, and excluding WARNING level) and sends “alarm notification” to the subscribing body when the alarms change. The alarm notification contains only changed portion of alarms, not all alarms.

# 16 Main operation:
The main functions provided by the server are “Reading active-alarm-list”, “Notifying”,

# 18 “Subscribing” and “cancel subscription”.
Reading active-alarm-list: the client can use this feature to get all current activity alarm information. Subscribe/cancel subscription: the client initiates to the server with subscription notification or cancel subscription notification. Notification：the server sends an alarm notification to the client when the alarm information changes.

# 25 A3.7.2.2 Key definition and Description

# 26 A3.7.2.3 Granularity and identification of alarm message
The alarm messages are presented at the level of a single alarm. Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 124 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 Each alarm message is identified by the following three tuples: fault-id, fault-source and fault- severity. If the three tuples are the same, it identifies the same alarm; if there is any different tuple, it represents a different alarm.

# 4 A3.7.2.4 Fault-id
Fault numbers are divided into two categories: “public” and “manufacturer defined”. Appendix A defines common fault numbers and reserves more numbers for future expansion (Note: Common fault numbers range from 0 to 999). Vendor defined fault number range is [1000 ... 65535].

# 8 A3.7.2.5 Fault-source
Alarm notifications reported by NETCONF Server contain element “fault-source” which indicates the origin of an alarm. In general values of “fault-source” are based on names defined as YANG leafs:
- Source (in O-RU , Examples: fan, module, PA, port)
indicates that fault sources within the O-RU . Value of “fault-source” is set as name of YANG leafs. *Note: In case the NETCONF Server reports an “unknown” fault-source, the NETCONF Client can discard the alarm notification.

# 17 - Source (outside O-RU )
Value of fault-source may be empty or may identify the most likely external candidate; for example, antenna.

# 20 A3.7.2.6 Fault-severity
Fault levels are defined as three types: critical, major, and minor, without warning, with the following meaning: Severe: the scope specified in the alarm is no longer available. Significant: the scope specified in the alarm is available but performance is degraded. Normal: there are alarms, but no performance is impacted.

# 26 A3.7.2.7 Failure source and affected object
Both are concepts of functional body in the context of alarm. The former emphasizes the “source” and the latter (affected-objects) emphasizes the affected object. For example, if failure source is a Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 125 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 quartz crystal oscillator (OCXO), the affected objects may be many of the components defined in the O-RU . The English version of the O-RAN specification emphasizes that when the failure source is in the O-RU , the failure source should not be placed in the affected-objects.

# 5 A3.7.3 Reading Alarm Procedure
The server is responsible for maintaining an active-alarm-list. This list does not contain any “warning” level information. When an alarm is detected, it is added into the list; when the cause of the alarm disappears, the alarm will be cleared, i.e., removed from the active-alarm list. Further, if this alarm source is the fault-source of an existing alarm, then all associated alarms are removed from the current fault list.

# 11 Operation mode:
The client operates “get” to read the active alarms list by NETCONF rpc, see FIG. 11-1 for procedure. Reading NETCONF rpc operation is an operation for the full table, it has a strong initialization nature, and it is mainly used in an establishment phase of the alarm management relationship to get the initial situation of the alarms. During the operation, this mode can also be used periodically in low-frequency, to realize periodical synchronization of full tables of alarm management information for both parties, in case of long time step out of the alarm information due to unexpected situation. For specific use of this method, this specification does not stipulate. Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 126 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 Figure Annex3- 10 Procedure of reading active alarm list In the O-RAN alarm management system, NETCONF server provides alarm initial information in the form of full table by “obtaining active-alarm-list” operation, which is the “static” part. The client subscribes alarm notifications (with filtering conditions) to the server, the server (based on conditional filtering) finds the alarm changes and updates the local active-alarm-list, and then notifies the client of the alarm changes in form of alarm notifications. A complete alarm notification system is formed by a static part and a dynamic part. The alarm notification subscription is initiated by the client and responded by the server, which includes two cases, with or without filtering conditions. Definitions of message formats of subscription with and without filtering conditions are given in chapter 4.5.3.2 and chapter 4.5.3.3, respectively. In high-level view, the NETCONF alarm subscription has a brief process shown in

# 14 FIG. 19.

# 16 A3.7.3.1 Subscription message format
The NETCONF Client can “subscribe” to Fault Management Element by sending “create- subscription”, RFC5277 [21], to NETCONF Server. RFC5277 allows “create-subscription” below:

# 20 <netconf:rpc netconf:message-id=“101”
xmlns:netconf=“urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0”> Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 127 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 3 <filter netconf:type=“subtree”>

# 4 <event xmlns=“http://example.com/event/1.0”>

# 5 <eventClass>fault</eventClass>

# 6 <severity>critical</severity>

# 7 </event>

# 8 <event xmlns=“http://example.com/event/1.0”>

# 9 <eventClass>fault</eventClass>

# 10 <severity>major</severity>

# 11 </event>

# 12 <event xmlns=“http://example.com/event/1.0”>

# 13 <eventClass>fault</eventClass>

# 14 <severity>minor</severity>

# 15 </event>

# 16 </filter>

# 17 </create-subscription>

# 18 </netconf:rpc>
Note: the NETCONF Client can disable/enable alarm sending only for all the alarms with same severity, not for a single alarm. Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 128 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 3 A3.7.3.2 Case 1: Subscription request with filter conditions
NETCONF client subscribes “alarm-notif” filtering fault-severity: CRITICAL, MAJOR and

# 5 MINOR, and “measurement-result-stats” filtering “transceiver-stats” and “rx-window-stats” which
measurement-object is RX_ON_TIME only:

# 7 <rpc xmlns:netconf=“urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0” message-id=“101”>

# 8 <create-subscription
xmlns=“urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:notification:1.0”>

# 10 <filter netconf:type=“subtree”>

# 11 <alarm-notif xmlns=“urn:o-ran:fm:1.0”>

# 12 <fault-severity>CRITICAL</fault-severity>

# 13 </alarm-notif>

# 14 <alarm-notif xmlns=“urn:o-ran:fm:1.0”>

# 15 <fault-severity>MAJOR</fault-severity>

# 16 </alarm-notif>

# 17 <alarm-notif xmlns=“urn:o-ran:fm:1.0”>

# 18 <fault-severity>MINOR</fault-severity>
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 129 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 3 <transceiver-stats/>

# 4 </measurement-result-stats>

# 5 <measurement-result-stats xmlns=“urn:o-ran:performance-management:1.0”>

# 6 <rx-window-stats>

# 7 <measurement-object>RX_ON_TIME</measurement-object>

# 8 </rx-window-stats>

# 9 </measurement-result-stats>

# 10 </filter>

# 11 </create-subscription>

# 12 </rpc>

# 13 A3.7.3.3 Case 2: Subscription request without filter conditions
NETCONF client subscribes default event stream NETCONF to receive all notifications defined in

# 15 O-RAN YANG modules:

# 16 <rpc xmlns:netconf=“urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0” message-id=“101”>

# 17 <create-subscription xmlns=“urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:notification:1.0”>

# 18 <stream>NETCONF</stream>

# 19 </create-subscription>

# 20 </rpc>

# 21 A3.7.4 Procedure of reporting alarm
After the NETCONF client subscribes to an alarm notification, the NETCONF server is responsible for sending alarm notifications (alarm-notif) to the client, which involves two cases: 1) a new alarm is detected (note: this may be an alarm the same as the existing alarm with different fault source); 2) an alarm is removed from the active alarm list. Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 130 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 Alarm removed from the active alarm list caused by fault source detection is considered as alarm clearing, which will result in an alarm notification being sent to the NETCONF client. This is applicable for alarms that are explicitly associated with detected fault source. This is to avoid step loss of information between NETCONF clients that could result from a particular client detecting corresponding cell. The NETCONF server only reports new alarms or alarms that have just disappeared in the alarm notification, not all active alarms every time.

# 11 In short:
Alarms are reported in form of alarm notifications. According to filtering conditions, the server sends alarm notifications to the subscriber (client) when an alarm change required to be notified is detected. The notifications are at the level of a single alarm, not all alarm information is sent. The alarm updates (the alarm information identification is a ternary group: fault number, fault source, and fault level). When the alarm level needs to be updated, the server sends a new alarm notification first, and then sends the old alarm clearing notification. Example: When an alarm of fault ID with the same fault source is reported in different fault levels, the alarm level will be upgraded or downgraded, specifically: NETCONF server reports an alarm of “the same fault number, the same fault source, a new fault level, and the is-cleared field of “FALSE”, and clear the previous alarm by reporting “fault ID, fault source, the original fault level, and is- cleared of ‘TRUE” (note: alarm update is achieved by adding new alarms first and then removing the old alarms). Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 131 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 10 A3.8.1 File System Structure
The file System structure of the O-RU is represented as a logical structure that is used by the file management procedures. If the O-RU ’s physical file structure differs from the logical file structure defined below, the O-RU is responsible for performing the mapping between the two structures. Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 132 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 4 O-RAN/log/

# 5 O-RAN/PM/

# 6 O-RAN/transceiver/

# 7 A3.8.1.2 Specification comparison

# 9 A3.8.2 File list retrieve procedure
This subsection describes file retrieve method which the O-DU /NMS retrieves the file list from the O-RU . One or multiple files’ information can be retrieved by one retrieve file list operation (use of wildcard is allowed). The O-DU /NMS triggers the retrieve file list operation from the O-RU .

# 8 8
The following rpc is used for retrieve file list operation:

# 14 -rpc:retrieve-file-list

# 15 - input
- logical path: the logical path of files to be retrieved, wild-card is allowed;
- file-name & file-name-filter: file name or file name filter, * is the wild-card;

# 18 - output
- status: whether O-RU accepted or rejected the retrieve file list request;
- reject-reason: the reason why O-RU rejects the request (only applicable if status is rejected);

# 21 - file list: file list retrieved;

# 22 The following shows retrieve file list sequence diagram:
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 133 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 3 A3.8.3 File upload procedure
This subsection describes file upload method from O-RU to O-DU/NMS. sFTP is used as upload means, and one file can be uploaded by one upload operation. The O-DU /NMS triggers file upload operation to O-RU . Simultaneous multiple file upload operations can be supported under the same sFTP connection between O-RU to O-DU /NMS. Following rpc parameters is used for upload operation:

# 8 8

# 9 -rpc: file-upload

# 10 - input
- local-logical-file-path: the path of file to be uploaded locally (* is allowed as wild-card);
- remote-file-path: URI of file on the O-DU /NMS;

# 13 - output
- status: whether O-RU accepted or rejected the upload request;
- reject-reason: the reason why O-RU rejects the request (only applicable if status is rejected)

# 16 The following shows the file upload sequence diagram:
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 134 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 3 A3.8.4 File download procedure
This section describes file download method from O-RU to O-DU /NMS. sFTP is used as

# 8 8
download means, and one file can be downloaded by one download operation. The O-DU /NMS triggers file download operation. Multiple file download operations can be supported under one sFTP connection between O-RU to

# 8 O-DU /NMS.

# 9 Following rpc parameters is used for download operation:

# 10 -rpc: file-download

# 11 - input
- local-logical-file-path: the path of file to be downloaded (* is allowed as wild-card);；
- remote-file-path: URI of file on the O-DU /NMS;
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 135 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 4 The following shows the file download sequence diagram:

# 11 A3.9.1 CPRI SYNC

# 12 A3.9.1.1 CPRI SYNC configuration
The O-RU obtains associated clock from CPRI without configuration of O-DU .

# 8 8
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 136 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 8 8
notification> to the NETCONF Server in the O-RU . Notifications are reported merely when the lock-state is changed. Before obtaining CPRI status information, O-DU needs to make sure that the CPRI is supported by the O-RU by querying supported-timing-reference-types. The following table contains related parameters of this container. reporting-period This parameter is used to define minimum time interval in seconds, sent by NETCONF Server. default: 10 lock-state This parameter is used to indicate whether the O-RU ’s clock system is locked in a line up state of a reference clock and a CPRI link recovered by a CPRI associated clock. The locked and unlocked states are defined by a specific implementation.

# 17  LOCKED:
a) the clock system is locked in the reference clock recovered by the CPRI associated clock, i.e. hardware PLL locked b) CPRI links line up (or in a state that is considered to indicate that the CPRI links can be operated properly, F-status indication) note: LOCKED when both a) and b) are satisfied

# 23  UNLOCKED:
a) the clock system isn’t locked in the reference clock recovered by the CPRI associated clock, i.e. hardware PLL unlocked b) CPRI links line up (or in a state that is considered to indicate that the CPRI links can be operated properly, F-status indication) note: UNLOCKED when either a) or b) occurs. When a) occurs, alarm item is 18 synchronization error; When b) occurs, alarm item is 17 no sync source. sources This parameter describes a port selection of a clock source, controlled by the O-RU .

# 32 Refer to o-ran-sync-cpri.yang YANG Model for details.
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 137 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 A3.10 O-RU U-plane Configuration

# 4 A3.10.1 Specific Conventions

# 5 A3.10.1.1 YANG model
O-RU U-plane under CPRI Option8 split is modeled with reference to O-RU U-plane modeling

# 8 7-2
under the condition of eCPRI Option7-2 split, o-ran-uplane-conf.yang and newly defined o-ran- uplane-conf-option8.yang. Main relations and differences between the two are compared in the following table. Table Annex3- 13 U-plane comparison of Option7-2 and Option8 eCPRI option7-2 CPRI option8 Main changes static-low-level-tx- static-tx-endpoint new definition with reference; endpoint static-low-level-rx- static-rx-endpoint new definition with reference; endpoint low-level-tx-endpoint tx-endpoint new definition with reference; low-level-rx-endpoint rx-endpoint new definition with reference; low-level-tx-link tx-link new definition with reference; low-level-rx-link rx-link new definition with reference; endpoint-types endpoint-types-option8 new definition with reference; original parameters seem be not applicable endpoint-capacity- not support sharing-groups endpoint-prach-group not support tx-array-carriers tx-array-carriers reuse without supporting laa; rx-array-carriers rx-array-carriers reuse tx-arrays tx-arrays reuse Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 138 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 rx-arrays rx-arrays reuse relations relations reuse eaxc-id-group- not support configuration general-config not support

# 4 A3.10.1.2 Comparison of Specification Requirement
The content of this chapter is newly written and is not relevant to the O-RAN specification. However, portions of this specification refer to the U-plane configuration under the O-RAN specification eCPRI Option 7-2 split.

# 8 A3.10.2 Format of eaxc-id
eaxc-id definition consistent with the O-RAN specification is used, ORAN-WG4.CUS.0-v03.00[2] may be referred for the specific format.

# 11 A3.10.3 U-plane Endpoint Addressing
For CPRI protocol-based connections, Option8 is used to split the O-RU , and eaxc-id is used for resource mapping and U-plane endpoint addressing. This method is applicable to end-to-end CPRI Option8 architecture. This method is also applicable to an architecture converting from eCPRI Option7-2 to CPRI

# 16 Option8, where O-DU
and FHGW 7-2→8 are connected based on an eCPRI Option7-2, FHGW 7-2→8 and O-RU are connected CPRI Option8. Different eaxc-ids correspond to different logical functions, such as cell, carrier, and space division dataflow. The end-to-end dataflow from a processing end of the O-DU to an antenna end of the O-

# 20 RU are identified.

# 21 During the configuration procedure:
O-DU configures eaxc-id for the O-RU U-plane endpoint, and also specifies a physical antenna,

# 8 8
see tx-endpoint and rx-endpoint in o-ran-upline-conf-option8.yang which realizes mapping between logical functions and O-RU physical resources. Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 139 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 O-DU configures a relationship between U-plane endpoints and CPRI dataflow for the O-RU ,

# 8 8
which realizes the addressing of CPRI dataflow and O-RU U-plane endpoint. During data transmission, in combination with CPRI U-plane dataflow model of 4.3.1.2: In a downstream direction, the O-RU obtains CPRI dataflow from the CPRI interface, and finds corresponding U-plane transmitting endpoint tx-endpoint according to eaxc-id, and transmits the processed data to corresponding physical antenna. In an upstream direction, the O-RU receives data from the physical antenna, and finds corresponding U-plane receiving endpoint rx-endpoint according to eaxc-id, and transmits the processed data to the CPRI dataflow on corresponding CPRI interface. The following is rules for configuring the eaxc-id by O-DU :
- For the same O-RU , only one eaxc-id is configured for each dataflow in the same direction (e.g.,
upstream or downstream), and different eaxc-ids are configured for different dataflow. eaxc-ids can be the same for dataflow in different directions (upstream and downstream) for the same O-RU .

# 16 - For the same upstream U-plane data stream,
 lower-level-tx-endpoint in FHM is configured with the same eaxc-id with the sending endpoint tx-endpoint in O-RU .

# 19 - For the same downstream U-plane data stream.
 Low-level-rx-endpoint in the FHM with the same eaxc-id configured with the receiving endpoint rx-endpoint in the O-RU .
- For the same user-facing data stream for the same shared cell.
 Sending endpoint tx-endpoint in different O-RU s configured with the same eaxc-id.  Receive endpoint rx-endpoint in different O-RU s configured with the same eaxc-id.
- For the same O-RU , only one eaxc-id is configured for each dataflow in the same direction
(e.g., upstream or downstream), and different eaxc-ids are configured for different dataflow. The eaxc-ids can be the same for dataflow in different directions (upstream and downstream) for the same O-RU .

# 29 - For the same upstream U-plane dataflow,
 lower-level-tx-endpoint in FHM is configured with the same eaxc-id as the tx-endpoint in

# 31 O-RU ;

# 32 - For the same downstream U-plane dataflow,
 low-level-rx-endpoint in FHM is configured with the same eaxc-id as the rx-endpoint in

# 34 O-RU ;
- For the same U-plane dataflow for the same shared cell,
 tx-endpoints in different O-RU are configured with the same eaxc-id; Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 140 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00  rx-endpoints in different O-RU are configured with the same eaxc-id; O-RU shall reject a configuration request that violates the above rules.

# 5 A3.10.4 U-plane Configuration
O-RU U-plane routing configuration under CPRI Option 8 split is shown below.

# 7 For more information, refer to o-ran-uplane-conf-option8.yang.
Figure Annex3- 17 O-RU 8 U-plane routing configuration under Option8 split

# 10 Pre-condition:
M-plane connection between the NETCONF client and the O-RU is established.

# 12 Post-condition:

# 13 U-plane routing configuration is completed.
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 141 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 5  tx-arrays

# 6  rx-arrays

# 7  static-tx-endpoints list

# 8  static-rx-endpoints list

# 9 - o-ran-interfaces-cpri.yang

# 10  interface element
NETCONF client checks relationships between the elements read in step 1):

# 12  static-tx-endpoint element and tx-array element;

# 13 2)  static-rx-endpoint element and rx-array element;

# 14  static-tx-endpoint element and interface element;

# 15  static-rx-endpoint element and interface element;

# 16  tx-arrays, rx-arrays and element thereof.
NETCONF client checks whether the following configurations meet the user cell configuration requirements, e.g., being connected with a specific antenna array and able to support the target 3) service type, etc.

# 20  tx-endpoint

# 21  rx-endpoint
NETCONF client assigns eaxc-id for tx-endpoint/rx-endpoint. The assignment rules see U- plane endpoint addressing, and configures the eaxc-id to a terminal by RPC edit-config.

# 24 4)  tx-endpoint

# 25  rx-endpoint

# 26 NETCONF client creates a carrier by RPC edit-config

# 27  tx-array-carriers

# 28 5)  rx-array-carriers
NETCONF client configures the U-Plane interface for the northbound CPRI interface via RPC edit-config

# 31 6)  processing-elements

# 32  AxC-information
NETCONF client establishes U-plane routing for the O-RU by creating and configuring the following parameters via RPC edit-config, and thus associating the CPRI northbound interface, 7) the transceiver terminal, and the carrier.

# 36  tx-links

# 37  rx-links

# 38 NETCONF client activates the carrier via RPC edit-config

# 39  tx-array-carriers.active = ACTIVE

# 40 8)  rx-array-carriers.active = ACTIVE

# 41 Example of U-plane configuration:
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 142 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 9 A3.11.1 Convention
This specification is direct at indoor distribution scenario, in which current O-RU s are all at single- level leaf stage, and do not involve cascade or multiple uplink. Therefore, this specification has the following scenario conventions:

# 13 O-RU cascade, not involved.

# 14 O-RU multiple uplink, not involved.

# 15 O-RU multiple uplink and cascade, not involved.

# 16 A3.11.2 Delay Model
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 144 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 CPRI protocol based on the Option 8 physical layer functional split is used for a fronthual interface between the FHM and the O-RU . The model presented in this section supports both O-RU in

# 8 8 8
indoor distribution that docks the FHM , and O-RU in outdoor macro station in the future.

# 8 8
The CPRI delay management model is holistic in nature and often needs to be described from DU south-port to air port for complete representation. FIG. 4.9-1 lists the delay management model given in CPRI V7.0 Section 4.2.9.

# 8 8
provides CPRI interface, or it may be CPRI interface FHM for converting from 7-2x to 8, so the traditional REC in the CPRI model needs to be generalized to the CPRI Master to achieve an independent and complete description of the O-RU model, as shown in FIG. 4.9-2 for details. Figure Annex3- 20 Relationship between O-RU 8 and CPRI Master The elliptical region in the figure may be a cable, an FHM of a primary CPRI interface, a multi- level CPRI FHM cascade or an indefinite multi-level CPRI O-RU and so on. In either above cases,

# 8 8
the delay relationship between a given O-RU and the CPRI Master is limited to the four elements,

# 18 R1, R4, T12, and T34, which specifically are:
point R1: relationship between a CPRI frame header and absolute time; relationship between

# 20 IQ data and CPRI frame header;
point R4: no need particular attention. Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 145 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 11 A3.11.2.1 Measurement Model
Figure Annex3- 21 Delay measurement after the O-RU 8 M-plane channel is normally established: after receiving a delay measurement request message, the O-RU reports its own delay measurements to the BBU via a delay measurement response message, which should include the following delays:

# 17  Toffset

# 18  T2a

# 19  Ta3

# 20  TBdelay DL

# 21  TBdelay UL
N(unit:basic frame, the difference of the frame position at RB3 relative to RB4 N is a specific concept of cascade RU, which is directly 0 in non-cascade mode.

# 24 A3.11.2.2 Timing model
Independence of the O-RU model can be improved by detaching time (in frame number form) from delay configuration model. Based on TR1_Offset and T12, O-RU can obtain global time in frame number form. Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 146 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 8 A3.11.3 Delay Parameter Modeling

# N Each pair of in unit of Tc (basic frame period); pass-by
cascade data introduced by cascade, frame header ports alignment compensation. RU delay T_Cal_DL carrier one value per carrier antenna, the carrier configurati antenna antenna includes: on level 1. carrier parameter, parameter DU 2. physical antenna readable For example, a 4T4R device single-carrier Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 148 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 and has four T_Cal_DL configuration points; a writable 4T4R device dual-carrier has eight T_Cal_DL configuration points in unit of ns T_Cal_UL the same as the same as above above T12 RU.OptPort CPRI T12, in unit of ns level parameter T34 RU.OptPort CPRI T34，in unit of ns level parameter DL_Offset carrier Offset relationship between IQ data and antenna CPRI frame header, in unit of Tc level parameter TR1_Offset RU.OptPort Offset of frame number of point R1 relative to absolute time, in unit of Tc. level parameter Optional parameter.

# 5 Case 1: FDD
In LTE FDD and similar systems that do not require alignment of 1PPS to work, the CPRI frame number at CPRI master exit is not required.

# 8 Case 2: TDD
Under LTE TDD, NR systems, gap frame header has an exact relationship to 1PPS. The CPRI frame number at the CPRI master exit is aligned to 1PPS by default. The CPRI frame number at the CPRI master exit may not be aligned to 1PPS in Case 2 under certain usages. Defining parameter TR1_Offset in this case helps to supplement the expression Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 149 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 capability of delay configuration system, and RU can still recover the CPRI frame number aligned with 1PPS by using TR1_Offset, t12 in this case.

# 3 A3.11.3.2 Parameter grouping

# 4 Parameters to be measured at this level:
Toffset, one value for each RU, regardless of port. T2a, Ta3, T_Cal_DL_MAX, T_Cal_UL_MAX, related to format, carrier bandwidth, subcarrier spacing Parameters required to be measured for cascade (this specification does not refer to RU cascade,

# 9 TBD):

# 10 TBdelayDl, TBdelayUl, N

# 11 CPRI link-related configuration parameters:

# 12 T12, T34, TR1_Offset

# 13 IQ data flow-related configuration parameters:

# 14 T_Cal_DL, DL_Offset, T_Cal_UL

# 15 A3.11.3.3 Modeling after grouping
yang file: o-ran-delay-management-ru-cpri.yang

# 17 Measurement parameter required for this level: ru-delay-profile

# 18 Measurement parameter required for cascade: ru-delay-profile-cascade-related

# 19 CPRI link related configuration parameter: ru-delay-config-cpri-link-related

# 20 IQ dataflow related configuration parameter: ru-delay-config-data-flow-related

# 21 A3.11.3.3.1 Modeling description of ru-delay-profile/ru-delay-profile-list- radio-related
The reference factors for O-RAN’s existing delay management modeling are carrier bandwidth and subcarrier spacing, and neither format, nor frequency point is included. In CPRI class device practice, CPRI RU delay is mainly influenced by the format, carrier, and subcarrier spacing, with the format having the greatest influence and the latter two having relatively little influence. Factors such as frequency point have a small impact and are usually self-digested within the device without exposing the differences externally. Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 150 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 Therefore, this part of the parameter is modeled as follows:

# 7 The model has the following usage:
case a: O-RU only have one set of delay paras,.

# 9 COMMON 0 0 t2a ta3 ...
case b: LTE use one set of delay paras, NR use another set of paras.

# 11 COMMON 0 0 t2a ta3 ...
case c: LTE NR use 2 set of delay paras... LTE 5000 15000 ... LTE 10000 15000 ... NR 100000 30000 ...

# 16 ...

# 17 Recommended usage:

# 19 A3.11.3.3.2 Modeling description of ru-delay-config-data-flow-related

# 20 Modeling perspective:
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 151 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 The CPRI RU delay configuration tends to be passive, i.e., by means of DU measuring, calculating, and sending pending configurations to RU.

# 3 Modeling approach:
In the RU perspective, a configuration model can be built based on its configuration points. However, this approach is not easy to use externally because the configuration points within the RU may be complex in multi-carrier and multi-format scenarios.

# 7 Mode selection:
From an external point of view, link between the DU/RU IQ dataflow is the eaxc-id. “Information pair” of eaxc-id & delay is used as the basic element herein. On the one hand, DU is easy to express, and on the other hand, RU is easy to use. In detail, because the same eaxc-id or different eaxc-ids may be used for upstream and downstream of the same carrier antenna, it is not convenient to describe both DL and UL under one eaxc-id. For this reason, DL and UL are modeled separately: dl_cal_ru_list：eaxc-id and t_cal_dl, DL_Offset ul_cal_ru_list：eaxc-id and t_cal_ul

# 16 A3.11.4 Delay Management Procedure

# 17 The following figure shows a delay management procedure.
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 152 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 4 A3.12.1 Specific Conventions

# 5 A3.12.1.1 YANG model
o-ran-troubleshooting.yang: defining O-RU ’s fault location log o-ran-trace.yang: defining O-RU ’s tracking log

# 8 A3.12.1.2 Comparison of specification requirements
Comparison of the differences between this chapter and the O-RAN Management Plane

# 10 Specification [1] is shown in the following table:
Table Annex3- 17 Comparison of differences of log management related specification O-RAN Management Plane Requirements of the Specification present specification Compression • .gz (DEFLATE) gz format of Log
- .lz4 (LZ4)
file Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 153 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00
- .xz (LZMA2 - xz utils)
- .zip (DEFLATE - zlib library)
Log file size not defined (recommending the same as O-RAN that the upload time be specification controlled within 3 minutes) upper limit for log files is defined by vender, file can be renamed and dated

# 4 A3.12.2.1 Overview of YANG model
o-ran-troubleshooting.yang: defining fault location log of O-RU namespace: urn:o-ran:troubleshooting:1.0

# 7 RPC-reply:

# 11 RPC:
<start-troubleshooting-logs> starts to create troubleshooting Log file, logging time starts from system startup to the time when this RPC is received Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 154 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 <stop-troubleshooting-logs> stops creating troubleshooting Log file, and ignores this RPC after sending out Notification (since the file has already been created)

# 3 Notification:
<troubleshooting-logs-generated> notifies that O-RU controller that the troubleshooting Log file has been created, and carries Log filename.

# 6 A3.12.2.2 Procedure requirements
After the O-RU software system starts, it automatically starts to collect Logs and store them in the memory, and writes them to the file when it receives creating file command. (1) Triggering the O-RU with <start-troubleshooting-logs> to create a troubleshooting logs file, and the O-RU replies rpc-reply to indicate whether the operation is successful or not. (2) If rpc-reply shows the operation is success, the O-RU starts to create fault location log file, and sends <troubleshooting-logs-generated> after creating all Log files, to notify the O-RU that controller file has been created and is waiting to be collected, with all the URLs of the log files carried therein. See File Management for file collection method. (3) The O-RU controller may send <stop-troubleshooting-logs> to stop the log file creation procedure if the rpc-reply indicates fail or if it is a long time before receiving the <troubleshooting- logs-generated> notification.

# 20 A3.12.3 Trace Log
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 155 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 Trace log is used to record a complete log of the system over a period of time and is controlled by the O-RU Controller.

# 3 A3.12.3.1 YANG model overview
o-ran-trace.yang: defining Trace Log of O-RU . namespace: urn:o-ran:trace:1.0

# 6 RPC-reply:

# 8 RPC:
<start-trace-logs> starts to create trace log file, logging time starts from receiving RPC to receiving

# 10 <stop-trace-logs>

# 11 <stop-trace-logs> stops creating the trace log file

# 12 Notification:
<trace-log-generated> notifies that O-RU controller trace log file has been created, and carries Log filename.

# 15 A3.12.3.2 Procedure requirements
(1) The O-RU is triggered with <start-trace-logs> to start collecting trace logs, and the O-RU

# 8 8
replies rpc-reply to indicate whether the operation is successful. (2) The O-RU starts to create log files in a loop and issues a <trace-log-generated> notification, and the URL includes all created Log files. Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 156 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 (3) When the O-RU controller needs to stop collecting the trace logs, it issues <stop-trace-logs>. The O-RU immediately stops collecting the trace logs after receiving the <stop-trace-logs>, and indicates in rpc-reply that is-notification-last is TRUE.

# 8 A3.13.1 Examples of O-RU 8 startup procedure

# 8 8
NETCONF performing NETCONF connection Chapter 4.2.5 connection monitoring by O-RU and O-DU

# 8 8
monitoring Read O-RU obtaining O-RU parameter

# 8 8
parameter O-RU software O-DU verifies and manages the O-RU Chapter 4.4

# 8 8 8
management software, ensures that the O-RU software is as expected O-RU fault Initializing O-RU fault management to Chapter 4.5

# 8 8
management achieve state control of the O-RU . Note: Fault management is placed in front of the U-plane configuration so that the fault management of O-RU can be performed normally even when there is no cell configuration. O-RU U-plane Carrier antenna Chapter 4.8.4 management Delay configuration Delay configuration Chapter 4.9.4 Carrier status Carrier status management Chapter 4.8.5 management Fault management Supplementing corresponding fault Chapter 4.5 supplement management arrangement after the carrier being activated Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 159 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 Figure Annex3- 27 Examples of O-RU 8 startup procedure Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 160 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 A3.14 Appendix - YANG Model Tree Diagram This appendix lists YANG model tree diagrams that are newly defined or modified by this specification; refer to the O-RAN specification for other YANG models.

# 4 A3.14.1 A.1 o-ran-uplane-conf-option8 Module
The format for the uplane conf option8 module is provided below module: o-ran-uplane-conf-option8

# 7 +--rw user-plane-configuration

# 8 +--rw tx-links* [name]

# 9 | +--rw name string

# 10 | +--rw processing-element -> /o-ran-pe:processing-elements/ru-elements/name

# 11 | +--rw tx-array-carrier -> /user-plane-configuration/tx-array-carriers/name

# 12 | +--rw tx-endpoint -> /user-plane-configuration/tx-endpoints/name

# 13 +--rw rx-links* [name]

# 14 | +--rw name string

# 15 | +--rw processing-element -> /o-ran-pe:processing-elements/ru-elements/name

# 16 | +--rw rx-array-carrier -> /user-plane-configuration/rx-array-carriers/name

# 17 | +--rw rx-endpoint -> /user-plane-configuration/rx-endpoints/name

# 18 +--ro endpoint-types-option8* [id]

# 19 | +--ro id uint16

# 20 +--ro static-tx-endpoints* [name]

# 21 | +--ro name string

# 22 | +--ro restricted-interfaces* -> /if:interfaces/interface/name

# 23 | +--ro array -> /user-plane-configuration/tx-arrays/name

# 24 | +--ro endpoint-type? -> ../../endpoint-types-option8/id

# 25 +--ro static-rx-endpoints* [name]

# 26 | +--ro name string
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 161 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 3 | +--ro endpoint-type? -> ../../endpoint-types-option8/id

# 4 +--rw tx-endpoints* [name]

# 5 | +--rw name -> /user-plane-configuration/static-tx-endpoints/name

# 6 | +--rw compression!

# 7 | +--rw e-axcid

# 8 | +--rw o-du-port-bitmask uint16

# 9 | +--rw band-sector-bitmask uint16

# 10 | +--rw ccid-bitmask uint16

# 11 | +--rw ru-port-bitmask uint16

# 12 | +--rw eaxc-id uint16

# 13 +--rw rx-endpoints* [name]

# 14 | +--rw name -> /user-plane-configuration/static-rx-endpoints/name

# 15 | +--rw compression

# 16 | +--rw e-axcid

# 17 | | +--rw o-du-port-bitmask uint16

# 18 | | +--rw band-sector-bitmask uint16

# 19 | | +--rw ccid-bitmask uint16

# 20 | | +--rw ru-port-bitmask uint16

# 21 | | +--rw eaxc-id uint16

# 22 | +--rw non-time-managed-delay-enabled? boolean

# 23 +--rw tx-array-carriers* [name]

# 24 | +--rw name string

# 25 | +--rw absolute-frequency-center uint32

# 26 | +--rw center-of-channel-bandwidth uint64

# 27 | +--rw channel-bandwidth uint64
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 162 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 3 | +--rw type? enumeration

# 4 | +--ro duplex-scheme? enumeration

# 5 | +--rw rw-duplex-scheme? -> /user-plane-configuration/tx-array-carriers[name=current()/../name]/duplex-scheme

# 6 | +--rw rw-type? -> /user-plane-configuration/tx-array-carriers[name=current()/../name]/type

# 7 | +--rw band-number? -> /mcap:module-capability/band-capabilities/band-number {mcap:LAA}?

# 8 | +--rw lte-tdd-frame

# 9 | | +--rw subframe-assignment enumeration

# 10 | | +--rw special-subframe-pattern enumeration

# 11 | +--rw gain decimal64

# 12 | +--rw downlink-radio-frame-offset uint32

# 13 | +--rw downlink-sfn-offset int16

# 14 +--rw rx-array-carriers* [name]

# 15 | +--rw name string

# 16 | +--rw absolute-frequency-center uint32

# 17 | +--rw center-of-channel-bandwidth uint64

# 18 | +--rw channel-bandwidth uint64

# 19 | +--rw active? enumeration

# 20 | +--ro state enumeration

# 21 | +--rw type? enumeration

# 22 | +--ro duplex-scheme? enumeration

# 23 | +--rw downlink-radio-frame-offset uint32

# 24 | +--rw downlink-sfn-offset int16

# 25 | +--rw gain-correction decimal64

# 26 | +--rw n-ta-offset uint32

# 27 +--ro tx-arrays* [name]
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 163 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 3 | +--ro number-of-columns uint16

# 4 | +--ro number-of-array-layers uint8

# 5 | +--ro horizontal-spacing? decimal64

# 6 | +--ro vertical-spacing? decimal64

# 7 | +--ro normal-vector-direction

# 8 | | +--ro azimuth-angle? decimal64

# 9 | | +--ro zenith-angle? decimal64

# 10 | +--ro leftmost-bottom-array-element-position

# 11 | | +--ro x? decimal64

# 12 | | +--ro y? decimal64

# 13 | | +--ro z? decimal64

# 14 | +--ro polarisations* [p]

# 15 | | +--ro p uint8

# 16 | | +--ro polarisation polarisation_type

# 17 | +--ro band-number -> /mcap:module-capability/band-capabilities/band-number

# 18 | +--ro max-gain decimal64

# 19 | +--ro independent-power-budget boolean

# 20 | +--ro capabilities* []

# 21 | +--ro max-supported-frequency-dl? uint64

# 22 | +--ro min-supported-frequency-dl? uint64

# 23 | +--ro max-supported-bandwidth-dl? uint64

# 24 | +--ro max-num-carriers-dl? uint32

# 25 | +--ro max-carrier-bandwidth-dl? uint64

# 26 | +--ro min-carrier-bandwidth-dl? uint64

# 27 | +--ro supported-technology-dl* enumeration
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 164 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 3 | +--ro number-of-rows uint16

# 4 | +--ro number-of-columns uint16

# 5 | +--ro number-of-array-layers uint8

# 6 | +--ro horizontal-spacing? decimal64

# 7 | +--ro vertical-spacing? decimal64

# 8 | +--ro normal-vector-direction

# 9 | | +--ro azimuth-angle? decimal64

# 10 | | +--ro zenith-angle? decimal64

# 11 | +--ro leftmost-bottom-array-element-position

# 12 | | +--ro x? decimal64

# 13 | | +--ro y? decimal64

# 14 | | +--ro z? decimal64

# 15 | +--ro polarisations* [p]

# 16 | | +--ro p uint8

# 17 | | +--ro polarisation polarisation_type

# 18 | +--ro band-number -> /mcap:module-capability/band-capabilities/band-number

# 19 | +--ro gain-correction-range

# 20 | | +--ro max decimal64

# 21 | | +--ro min decimal64

# 22 | +--ro capabilities* []

# 23 | +--ro max-supported-frequency-ul? uint64

# 24 | +--ro min-supported-frequency-ul? uint64

# 25 | +--ro max-supported-bandwidth-ul? uint64

# 26 | +--ro max-num-carriers-ul? uint32

# 27 | +--ro max-carrier-bandwidth-ul? uint64
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 165 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 3 +--ro relations* [entity]

# 4 | +--ro entity uint16

# 5 | +--ro array1

# 6 | | +--ro (antenna-type)?

# 7 | | +--:(tx)

# 8 | | | +--ro tx-array-name? -> /o-ran-uplane-conf:user-plane-configuration/tx-arrays/name

# 9 | | +--:(rx)

# 10 | | +--ro rx-array-name? -> /o-ran-uplane-conf:user-plane-configuration/rx-arrays/name

# 11 | +--ro array2

# 12 | | +--ro (antenna-type)?

# 13 | | +--:(tx)

# 14 | | | +--ro tx-array-name? -> /o-ran-uplane-conf:user-plane-configuration/tx-arrays/name

# 15 | | +--:(rx)

# 16 | | +--ro rx-array-name? -> /o-ran-uplane-conf:user-plane-configuration/rx-arrays/name

# 17 | +--ro types* [relation-type]

# 18 | +--ro relation-type enumeration

# 19 | +--ro pairs* [element-array1]

# 20 | +--ro element-array1 uint16

# 21 | +--ro element-array2? uint16

# 22 +--rw eaxc-id-group-configuration {mcap:EAXC-ID-GROUP-SUPPORTED}?

# 23 +--rw max-num-tx-eaxc-id-groups? -> /mcap:module-capability/ru-capabilities/eaxcid-grouping-capabilities/max-num-tx-eaxc-id-groups

# 24 +--rw max-num-tx-eaxc-ids-per-group? -> /mcap:module-capability/ru-capabilities/eaxcid-grouping-capabilities/max-num-tx-eaxc-ids-per- group

# 26 +--rw max-num-rx-eaxc-id-groups? -> /mcap:module-capability/ru-capabilities/eaxcid-grouping-capabilities/max-num-rx-eaxc-id-groups

# 27 +--rw max-num-rx-eaxc-ids-per-group? -> /mcap:module-capability/ru-capabilities/eaxcid-grouping-capabilities/max-num-rx-eaxc-ids-per- group
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 166 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 3 | +--rw member-tx-eaxc-id* uint16

# 4 +--rw rx-eaxc-id-group* [representative-rx-eaxc-id]

# 5 +--rw representative-rx-eaxc-id uint16

# 6 +--rw member-rx-eaxc-id* uint16
notifications:

# 9 +---n tx-array-carriers-state-change

# 10 | +--ro tx-array-carriers* [name]

# 11 | +--ro name -> /user-plane-configuration/tx-array-carriers/name

# 12 | +--ro state? -> /user-plane-configuration/tx-array-carriers/state

# 13 +---n rx-array-carriers-state-change

# 14 +--ro rx-array-carriers* [name]

# 15 +--ro name -> /user-plane-configuration/rx-array-carriers/name

# 16 +--ro state? -> /user-plane-configuration/rx-array-carriers/state

# 19 A3.14.2 A.2. o-ran-uplane-conf-hub Module
module: o-ran-uplane-conf-hub

# 21 +--rw eaxc-id-group-configuration {mcap:EAXC-ID-GROUP-SUPPORTED}?

# 22 | +--rw max-num-tx-eaxc-id-groups? -> /mcap:module-capability/ru-capabilities/eaxcid-grouping-capabilities/max-num-tx-eaxc-id-groups

# 23 | +--rw max-num-tx-eaxc-ids-per-group? -> /mcap:module-capability/ru-capabilities/eaxcid-grouping-capabilities/max-num-tx-eaxc-ids-per-group

# 24 | +--rw max-num-rx-eaxc-id-groups? -> /mcap:module-capability/ru-capabilities/eaxcid-grouping-capabilities/max-num-rx-eaxc-id-groups

# 25 | +--rw max-num-rx-eaxc-ids-per-group? -> /mcap:module-capability/ru-capabilities/eaxcid-grouping-capabilities/max-num-rx-eaxc-ids-per-group

# 26 | +--rw tx-eaxc-id-group* [representative-tx-eaxc-id]

# 27 | | +--rw representative-tx-eaxc-id uint16
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 167 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 3 | +--rw representative-rx-eaxc-id uint16

# 4 | +--rw member-rx-eaxc-id* uint16

# 5 +--rw user-plane-configuration

# 6 +--rw low-level-tx-links* [name]

# 7 | +--rw name string

# 8 | +--rw processing-element -> /o-ran-pe:processing-elements/ru-elements/name

# 9 | +--rw low-level-tx-endpoint -> /user-plane-configuration/low-level-tx-endpoints/name

# 10 +--rw low-level-rx-links* [name]

# 11 | +--rw name string

# 12 | +--rw processing-element -> /o-ran-pe:processing-elements/ru-elements/name

# 13 | +--rw low-level-rx-endpoint -> /user-plane-configuration/low-level-rx-endpoints/name

# 14 | +--rw user-plane-uplink-marking? -> /o-ran-pe:processing-elements/enhanced-uplane-mapping/uplane-mapping/up-marking-name

# 15 +--ro endpoint-types* [id]

# 16 | +--ro id uint16

# 17 | +--ro supported-section-types* [section-type]

# 18 | | +--ro section-type uint8

# 19 | | +--ro supported-section-extensions* uint8

# 20 | +--ro supported-frame-structures* uint8

# 21 | +--ro managed-delay-support? enumeration

# 22 | +--ro multiple-numerology-supported? boolean

# 23 | +--ro max-numerology-change-duration? uint16

# 24 | +--ro max-control-sections-per-data-section? uint8

# 25 | +--ro max-sections-per-symbol? uint16

# 26 | +--ro max-sections-per-slot? uint16

# 27 | +--ro max-remasks-per-section-id? uint8
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 168 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 3 | +--ro max-prb-per-symbol? uint16

# 4 | +--ro prb-capacity-allocation-granularity* uint16

# 5 | +--ro max-numerologies-per-symbol? uint16

# 6 +--ro endpoint-capacity-sharing-groups* [id]

# 7 | +--ro id uint16

# 8 | +--ro max-control-sections-per-data-section? uint8

# 9 | +--ro max-sections-per-symbol? uint16

# 10 | +--ro max-sections-per-slot? uint16

# 11 | +--ro max-remasks-per-section-id? uint8

# 12 | +--ro max-beams-per-symbol? uint16

# 13 | +--ro max-beams-per-slot? uint16

# 14 | +--ro max-prb-per-symbol? uint16

# 15 | +--ro max-numerologies-per-symbol? uint16

# 16 | +--ro max-endpoints? uint16

# 17 | +--ro max-managed-delay-endpoints? uint16

# 18 | +--ro max-non-managed-delay-endpoints? uint16

# 19 +--ro endpoint-prach-group* [id]

# 20 | +--ro id uint16

# 21 | +--ro supported-prach-preamble-formats* prach-preamble-format

# 22 +--ro static-low-level-tx-endpoints* [name]

# 23 | +--ro name string

# 24 | +--ro restricted-interfaces* -> /if:interfaces/interface/name

# 25 | +--ro endpoint-type? -> ../../endpoint-types/id

# 26 | +--ro capacity-sharing-groups* -> ../../endpoint-capacity-sharing-groups/id

# 27 +--ro static-low-level-rx-endpoints* [name]
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 169 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 3 | +--ro endpoint-type? -> ../../endpoint-types/id

# 4 | +--ro capacity-sharing-groups* -> ../../endpoint-capacity-sharing-groups/id

# 5 | +--ro prach-group? -> ../../endpoint-prach-group/id

# 6 +--rw low-level-tx-endpoints* [name]

# 7 | +--rw name -> /user-plane-configuration/static-low-level-tx-endpoints/name

# 8 | +--rw compression!

# 9 | | +--rw iq-bitwidth? uint8

# 10 | | +--rw compression-type enumeration

# 11 | | x--rw bitwidth? uint8

# 12 | | +--rw (compression-format)?

# 13 | | +--:(no-compresison)

# 14 | | +--:(block-floating-point)

# 15 | | | +--rw exponent? uint8

# 16 | | +--:(block-floating-point-selective-re-sending)

# 17 | | | +--rw sres-exponent? uint8

# 18 | | +--:(block-scaling)

# 19 | | | +--rw block-scalar? uint8

# 20 | | +--:(u-law)

# 21 | | | +--rw comp-bit-width? uint8

# 22 | | | +--rw comp-shift? uint8

# 23 | | +--:(beam-space-compression)

# 24 | | | +--rw active-beam-space-coeficient-mask* uint8

# 25 | | | +--rw block-scaler? uint8

# 26 | | +--:(modulation-compression)

# 27 | | | +--rw csf? uint8
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 170 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 3 | | +--rw sres-csf? uint8

# 4 | | +--rw sres-mod-comp-scaler? uint16

# 5 | +--rw frame-structure? uint8

# 6 | +--rw cp-type? enumeration

# 7 | +--rw cp-length uint16

# 8 | +--rw cp-length-other uint16

# 9 | +--rw offset-to-absolute-frequency-center int32

# 10 | +--rw number-of-prb-per-scs* [scs]

# 11 | | +--rw scs mcap:scs-config-type

# 12 | | +--rw number-of-prb uint16

# 13 | +--rw e-axcid

# 14 | | +--rw o-du-port-bitmask uint16

# 15 | | +--rw band-sector-bitmask uint16

# 16 | | +--rw ccid-bitmask uint16

# 17 | | +--rw ru-port-bitmask uint16

# 18 | | +--rw eaxc-id uint16

# 19 | +--rw downlink-radio-frame-offset uint32

# 20 | +--rw downlink-sfn-offset int16

# 21 +--rw low-level-rx-endpoints* [name]

# 22 | +--rw name -> /user-plane-configuration/static-low-level-rx-endpoints/name

# 23 | +--rw compression

# 24 | | +--rw iq-bitwidth? uint8

# 25 | | +--rw compression-type enumeration

# 26 | | x--rw bitwidth? uint8

# 27 | | +--rw (compression-format)?
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 171 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 3 | | | +--rw exponent? uint8

# 4 | | +--:(block-floating-point-selective-re-sending)

# 5 | | | +--rw sres-exponent? uint8

# 6 | | +--:(block-scaling)

# 7 | | | +--rw block-scalar? uint8

# 8 | | +--:(u-law)

# 9 | | | +--rw comp-bit-width? uint8

# 10 | | | +--rw comp-shift? uint8

# 11 | | +--:(beam-space-compression)

# 12 | | | +--rw active-beam-space-coeficient-mask* uint8

# 13 | | | +--rw block-scaler? uint8

# 14 | | +--:(modulation-compression)

# 15 | | | +--rw csf? uint8

# 16 | | | +--rw mod-comp-scaler? uint16

# 17 | | +--:(modulation-compression-selective-re-sending)

# 18 | | +--rw sres-csf? uint8

# 19 | | +--rw sres-mod-comp-scaler? uint16

# 20 | +--rw frame-structure? uint8

# 21 | +--rw cp-type? enumeration

# 22 | +--rw cp-length uint16

# 23 | +--rw cp-length-other uint16

# 24 | +--rw offset-to-absolute-frequency-center int32

# 25 | +--rw number-of-prb-per-scs* [scs]

# 26 | | +--rw scs mcap:scs-config-type

# 27 | | +--rw number-of-prb uint16
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 172 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 3 | | +--rw ul-fft-sampling-offset? uint16

# 4 | +--rw e-axcid

# 5 | | +--rw o-du-port-bitmask uint16

# 6 | | +--rw band-sector-bitmask uint16

# 7 | | +--rw ccid-bitmask uint16

# 8 | | +--rw ru-port-bitmask uint16

# 9 | | +--rw eaxc-id uint16

# 10 | +--rw non-time-managed-delay-enabled? boolean

# 11 | +--rw downlink-radio-frame-offset uint32

# 12 | +--rw downlink-sfn-offset int16

# 13 | +--rw n-ta-offset uint32

# 14 +--rw general-config

# 15 +--rw regularization-factor-se-configured? boolean

# 16 +--rw little-endian-byte-order? boolean

# 17 A3.14.3 A.3. o-ran-shared-cell-ecpri7-to-cpri8 Module
module: o-ran-shared-cell-ecpri7-to-cpri8

# 19 +--rw shared-cell-cpri7-to-cpri8

# 20 +--ro shared-cell-module-cap-ecpri7-to-cpri8

# 21 | +--ro max-number-node-copy-and-combine uint8

# 22 | +--ro max-number-eaxcid-copy uint8

# 23 | +--ro max-number-eaxcid-combine uint8

# 24 | +--ro compression-method-supported* [] {FHM-eCPRI7-to-CPRI8}?

# 25 +--rw shared-cell-config

# 26 +--rw (shared-cell-copy-combine-mode)?

# 27 +--:(COMMON)
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 173 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 3 | | +--rw north-node-processing-element? -> /o-ran-pe:processing-elements/ru-elements/name

# 4 | | +--rw south-node-processing-elements* -> /o-ran-pe:processing-elements/ru-elements/name

# 5 | | +--rw shared-cell-copy-uplane-config {FHM}?

# 6 | | +--rw tx-eaxc-id* [eaxc-id]

# 7 | | | +--rw eaxc-id uint16

# 8 | | +--rw rx-eaxc-id* [eaxc-id]

# 9 | | | +--rw eaxc-id uint16

# 10 | | +--rw downlink-radio-frame-offset uint32

# 11 | | +--rw downlink-sfn-offset int16

# 12 | +--rw shared-cell-combine-entities* [name]

# 13 | +--rw name string

# 14 | +--rw north-node-processing-element? -> /o-ran-pe:processing-elements/ru-elements/name

# 15 | +--rw south-node-processing-elements* -> /o-ran-pe:processing-elements/ru-elements/name

# 16 | +--rw ta3-prime-max? uint32

# 17 | +--rw shared-cell-combine-uplane-config {FHM}?

# 18 | +--rw rx-eaxc-id* [eaxc-id]

# 19 | | +--rw eaxc-id uint16

# 20 | | +--rw comression-method

# 21 | | +--rw iq-bitwidth? uint8

# 22 | | +--rw compression-type enumeration

# 23 | | x--rw bitwidth? uint8

# 24 | | +--rw (compression-format)?

# 25 | | +--:(no-compresison)

# 26 | | +--:(block-floating-point)

# 27 | | | +--rw exponent? uint8
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 174 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 3 | | +--:(block-scaling)

# 4 | | | +--rw block-scalar? uint8

# 5 | | +--:(u-law)

# 6 | | | +--rw comp-bit-width? uint8

# 7 | | | +--rw comp-shift? uint8

# 8 | | +--:(beam-space-compression)

# 9 | | | +--rw active-beam-space-coeficient-mask* uint8

# 10 | | | +--rw block-scaler? uint8

# 11 | | +--:(modulation-compression)

# 12 | | | +--rw csf? uint8

# 13 | | | +--rw mod-comp-scaler? uint16

# 14 | | +--:(modulation-compression-selective-re-sending)

# 15 | | +--rw sres-csf? uint8

# 16 | | +--rw sres-mod-comp-scaler? uint16

# 17 | +--rw downlink-radio-frame-offset uint32

# 18 | +--rw downlink-sfn-offset int16

# 19 | +--rw n-ta-offset uint32

# 20 | +--rw number-of-prb uint16

# 21 +--:(SELECTIVE)
augment /sc:shared-cell/sc:shared-cell-config/sc:shared-cell-copy-combine-mode:

# 24 +--:(eCPRI7-to-CPRI8)

# 25 +--rw shared-cell-copy-entities-ecpri7-to-cpri8* [name]

# 26 | +--rw name string

# 27 | +--rw low-level-tx-endpoint? -> /uc-hub:user-plane-configuration/low-level-tx-endpoints/name
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 175 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 3 +--rw name string

# 4 +--rw low-level-rx-endpoint? -> /uc-hub:user-plane-configuration/low-level-tx-endpoints/name

# 5 +--rw south-node-processing-elements-cpri* -> /o-ran-pe:processing-elements/ru-elements/name

# 6 A3.14.4 A.4 o-ran-interfaces-cpri Module
module: o-ran-interfaces-cpri

# 8 +--ro cpri-status

# 9 +--ro cpri-startup-status

# 10 | +--ro cpri-startup-state? enumeration

# 11 +--ro cpri-link-status

# 12 +--ro cpri-link-state? enumeration
augment /if:interfaces/if:interface:

# 15 +--rw cpri-interface

# 16 +--rw mac-address? yang:mac-address

# 17 +--rw port-reference

# 18 | +--rw port-name? -> /hw:hardware/component/name

# 19 | +--rw port-number? uint8

# 20 | +--rw cpri-config {CPRI-INTERFACE}?

# 21 | +--rw port-mode? enumeration {CPRI-INTERFACE}?

# 22 | +--rw cpri-version? string

# 23 | +--rw line-bit-rate? decimal64

# 24 | +--rw ethernet-pointer? uint8

# 25 | +--rw samplewidth? uint8

# 26 | +--rw linecoding? enumeration

# 27 +--ro ber-counts? string
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 176 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00 rpcs:

# 3 +---x reset-interface-counters
notifications:

# 6 +---n cpri-startup-state-change

# 7 | +--ro cpri-startup-state? -> /cpri-status/cpri-startup-status/cpri-startup-state

# 8 +---n cpri-link-state-change

# 9 +--ro cpri-link-state? -> /cpri-status/cpri-link-status/cpri-link-state

# 11 A3.14.5 A.5 o-ran-processing-element-cpri Module
module: o-ran-processing-element-cpri augment /o-ran-pe:processing-elements/o-ran-pe:ru-elements/o-ran-pe:transport-flow:

# 14 +--rw cpri-flow

# 15 +--rw compression-flag? boolean

# 16 +--rw iq-start-bit? uint16

# 17 +--rw iq-end-bit? uint16

# 18 +--rw inband-compression-start-bit? uint16

# 19 +--rw inband-compression-end-bit? uint16

# 20 +--rw agc-start-bit? uint16

# 21 +--rw agc-end-bit? uint16

# 23 A3.14.6 A.6 o-ran-delay-management-ru-cpri Module
module: o-ran-delay-management-ru-cpri

# 25 +--r ru-delay-profile

# 26 +--r ru-delay-profile-list-radio-related
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 177 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00

# 3 +--rw ru-delay-config-data-flow-related

# 4 A3.14.7 A.7. o-ran-system-time Module
module: o-ran-system-time

# 6 +--rw system-time

# 7 +--rw current-datetime? ietf-yang-types:date-and-time

# 9 A3.14.8 A.8. o-ran-sync-cpri Module
module: o-ran-sync-cpri

# 11 +--rw sync-status

# 12 +--rw reporting-period? uint32

# 13 +--ro sync-state? enumeration

# 14 +--ro error-message? string

# 15 +--ro source-port-number? -> if:interfaces/interface/o-ran-int-cpri:cpri-interface/port-reference/port-number
notifications:

# 18 +---n cpri-state-change

# 19 +--ro cpri-sync-state? -> /sync-status/sync-state
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 178 ORAN.WG7.IPC-HRD-Opt8.0-v03.00


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG7.IPC-TEST.0-v01.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG7.IPC-TEST.0-v01 O-RAN Work Group 7 White-box Hardware    Test Guidelines for Indoor Pico Cell"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms

For the purposes of the present document, the terms [given in [i.1] and the following] apply:

- **Carrier Frequency:**: Center frequency of the cell.
- **F1 interface:**: The open interface between O-CU and O-DU defined by 3GPP TS 38.473.
- Frequency Band: A designated frequency range for the operation of the base station and the UE radios. 5G NR frequency bands are divided into two different frequency ranges: Frequency Range 1 (FR1) that mainly includes sub-6GHz frequency bands, some of which are bands traditionally used by previous standards but has been extended to cover potential new spectrum offerings from 410MHz to 7125MHz; Frequency Range 2 (FR2) that includes frequency bands from 24.25 GHz to 52.6 GHz. Bands in this millimeter wave range have shorter range but higher available bandwidth than bands in the FR1.
- Frequency Range: It refers to bandwidth defined by the frequency range within which the Base Station can be operated, defined by the band-pass filter of the BS; e.g., 3.4 – 3.8 GHz (400 MHz).
- Occupied Bandwidth (OBW): It refers to the bandwidth occupied by the base station when operated, defined by the sum of the active bandwidths of the band allocation(s) operated. As defined by 3GPP TS 34.121 section 5.8, occupied bandwidth is the bandwidth containing 99% of the total integrated power of the transmitted spectrum, centered on the assigned channel frequency. The bandwidth between the 0.5% power frequency points is the occupied bandwidth.
- Instantaneous Bandwidth (IBW): It refers to the bandwidth in which all frequency components can be simultaneously analyzed. It is defined by the frequency boundaries of the operating band(s).
- Fronthaul Gateway (FHGW): A fronthaul gateway is a physical entity that is located between a distributed unit and one or more radio units where it distributes, aggregates, and/or converts fronthaul protocols between the distributed unit and multiple radio units.
- **gNB:**: A RAN node providing NR user plane and control plane protocol terminations towards the UE, and connected via the NG interface to the 5GC

## 3.2 Symbols

Void

## 3.3 Abbreviations

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations [given in [i.1] and the following] apply:

- **ACLR**: Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio
- **ACS**: Adjacent Channel Selectivity
- **EVM**: Error Vector Magnitude
- **FHGW**: Fronthaul Gateway
- **GNSS**: Global Navigation Satellite System
- **GPS**: Global Positioning System
- **ICS**: In-channel Selectivity
- **IEEE**: Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
- **NR**: New Radio
- **O-CU**: O-RAN Centralized Unit as defined by O-RAN
- **O-DU**: O-RAN Distributed Unit as defined by O-RAN
- **O-RU**: O-RAN Radio Unit as defined by O-RAN
- **PPS**: Pulse per Second
- **QAM**: Quadrature Amplitude Modulation
- **RF**: Radio Frequency
- **RX**: Receiver
- **TX**: Transmitter

# 4 Test methodology and configuration

## 4.1 Hardware architecture

Indoor picocell based on Option 7-2x and Option 8 consists of O-RU, O-DU, and FHGW.

## 4.2 Test equipment and tools

Table 4.2-1 listed the main test tools.

| Item | Functions | Basic configurations |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Oscilloscope | Measure clock synchronization accuracy | Bandwidth: ≥300MHz Sampling rate: ≥2.5GS/s |
| Vector signal generator | Test GNSS automatic switching, RF performance and calibration | NR signals can be configured according to RF test requirements, and white noise signals can be emitted |
| Spectrum analyzer | Test clock synchronization accuracy, RF performance and calibration | NR signals can be demodulated according to RF test requirements |
| Power supply | Power the device under test |  |
| Test UE | NR traffic test | Antenna configuration: Supports downlink MIMO NR carrier frequency: Supports the test configuration |
| Oscilloscopes and current probes | Power consumption and power supply mode test | Current accuracy: within ±2%. |
| Voltmeter | Power consumption and power supply mode test | Voltage test accuracy: within ±3%. DC voltage range: 100V AC voltage range: 500V |

## 4.3 Test configuration

Configure A: Band n41

NR signal: channel bandwidth 100MHz, subcarrier spacing 30kHz, total RB 273

The NR uses a 5ms frame structure (DDDDDDDSUU) with a special sub-frame ratio of 6:4:4

Configure B: Band n78

NR signal: channel bandwidth 100MHz, subcarrier spacing 30kHz, total RB 273

The NR uses a 5ms frame structure (DDDSUDDSUU) with a special sub-frame ratio of 10:2:2

# 5 O-CU and O-DU Tests

## 5.1 GNSS synchronization accuracy

| Reference networking |  |
| --- | --- |
| Purpose of the test | Verify that the O-DU supports GPS/Beidou dual-mode synchronization, and has an automatic switching function. |
| Test conditions | The GPS/Beidou dual-mode antenna is connected to the O-DU; The GPS/Beidou dual-mode antenna is connected to the atomic clock; Both the O-DU and GPS/Beidou receivers work normally after powering on. |
| Test steps | The GPS/Beidou receiver is set as the clock source of the O-DU through the operation and maintenance station; Power on the O-DU, and keep all devices powered on for 60 minutes; The 1PPS signal output by the atomic clock (which can be replaced by another O-DU) and the 1PPS output by the O-DU are introduced into the oscilloscope, the 1PPS signal channel of the atomic clock is set as the trigger channel. Observe the phase error between the 1PPS output by the O-DU and the 1PPS signal output by the atomic clock. The 10MHz clock output by the atomic clock and the 10MHz clock output by the O-DU were introduced into the frequency meter, and the 10MHz clock output by the atomic clock was used as the standard frequency to observe the frequency error between the 10MHz clock output by the O-DU and the 10MHz clock output by the atomic clock. Set the interference source to the same frequency point signal as the GPS, drown the GPS signal by adding noise, and repeat steps 3 and 4. Set the interference source to the same frequency signal as the Beidou, drown the Beidou signal by adding noise, and repeat steps 3 and 4. |
| Expected results | When GPS/Beidou dual-mode are working at the same time, and when either synchronization source disappears, the synchronization accuracy is compliant to O-RAN.WG7.IPC-HAR.0-v03.00. |

## 5.2 IEEE 1588v2 synchronization accuracy

| Reference networking |  |
| --- | --- |
| Purpose of the test | Verify that the O-DU supports IEEE 1588v2 in-band synchronization. |
| Test conditions | Build a transport network; Connect the O-DU to the transport network via Ethernet; The O-DU works normally after powering on. |
| Test steps | The 1588 clock is set as the clock source of the O-DU through the operation and maintenance station, and the in-band mode (synchronous signal is transmitted through the GE transmission interface) is used to build the test environment according to the in-band test block diagram; Power on the O-DU, and keep all devices powered on for 60 minutes; Introduce the 1PPS signal output by the atomic clock (which can be replaced by another O-DU) and the 1PPS output by the O-DU into the oscilloscope, set the 1PPS signal channel output by the atomic clock as the trigger channel, and observe the phase error between the 1PPS output by the O-DU and the 1PPS signal output by the atomic clock. The 10MHz clock output of the atomic clock and the 10MHz clock output of the O-DU were introduced into the frequency meter, and the frequency error between the 10MHz clock output of the O-DU and the 10MHz clock output by the atomic clock was observed by using the 10MHz clock output of the atomic clock as the standard frequency. |
| Expected results | The synchronization accuracy is compliant to O-RAN.WG7.IPC-HAR.0-v03.00. |

## 5.3 Clock hold-over ability

| Reference networking |  |
| --- | --- |
| Purpose of the test | Verify whether the O-DU master clock can meet the requirement that the synchronization retention time is not less than 24 hours after the synchronization source is lost. |
| Test conditions | Build a test environment according to the network diagram; The O-DU under test is powered on and enters the GPS synchronization state for more than 4 hours. |
| Test steps | The frame synchronization output of the reference O-DU (which needs to ensure that the reference O-DU remains GPS locked during the test) is used as the reference signal, and the frame synchronization signal (1PPS or 10ms) output by the O-DU under test is observed with an oscilloscope; Unplug the input of the synchronization source (including GPS and IEEE 1588v2) of the O-DU under test and enter the master clock hold mode of the base station. Observe and record the time deviation between the synchronization signals of the two frames of the observation at this moment; The O-DU under test operates for 24 hours in master clock hold mode, and the time deviation between the two frame synchronization signals is observed and recorded. |
| Expected results | After the synchronization source of the base station is lost, within 24 hours of the self-timing of the master clock, the temperature drift of the frame synchronization signal of the O-DU under test is less than 3μs. |

## 5.4 Power supply method

| Reference networking |  |
| --- | --- |
| Purpose of the test | Verify that the O-DU supports DC -48 VDC (-40V~-57V) power supply; Verify that the O-DU supports AC 220 VAC (140V~300V) and 50Hz (45Hz~65Hz) power supply modes. |
| Test conditions | The NR channel bandwidth is set to 100 MHz. The uplink and downlink services are UDP full buffer services. |
| Test steps | The O-DU, FHGW, and O-RU all work normally after powering on.  For single-mode O-DUs, establish 1 NR 100MHz cell;  The O-RU is connected to a 5G test UE to confirm that the uplink and downlink rates of a single user can reach 90% of the peak rate of both uplink 2 streams and downlink 2 streams at the same time. The power supply voltage is pulled down to the minimum working voltage specified in the technical requirements, and the operation of the O-DU is observed through the test terminal, and the uplink and downlink rates of a single user can reach 90% of the peak rate of the uplink 2 streams and the downlink 2 streams required by the technical requirements at the same time.  Pull the power supply voltage up to the highest working voltage specified in the technical requirements, observe the operation of the O-DU through the test UE, and confirm that the uplink and downlink rate of a single user can reach 90% of the peak rate of the uplink 2 streams and the downlink 2 streams required by the technical requirements. |
| Expected results | O-DU supports DC -48 VDC (-40v ~ -57v) or AC 220V power supply, voltage range of 140V~ 300v, frequency range of 45Hz ~ 65Hz. The uplink and downlink rate of a single user can reach 90% of the peak rate. |

## 5.5 Dimension and volume

| Reference networking |  |
| --- | --- |
| Purpose of the test | Confirm the dimension and the volume of the O-DU. |
| Test conditions | Confirm that the board configuration of the O-DU is the same as that of the O-DU during the capacity test. |
| Test steps | Use a tape measure or vernier caliper to measure the length, width and height of the O-DU and record them. Calculate the O-DU volume. |
| Expected results | O-DU has a standard 19" rack and can be built into any standard rack or placed independently. The height does not exceed 2U, the depth (including the connector) must be less than 450mm. |

## 5.6 Cell capacity

| Reference networking |  |
| --- | --- |
| Purpose of the test | Verify the maximum capability of the 100MHz NR cell that the O-DU is capable of supporting. |
| Test conditions | Referring to the network block diagram, the O-DU is tested according to the maximum capacity;  The NR channel bandwidth is set to 100MHz.  Working mode 1: UDP full buffer service is used for uplink and downlink. Working mode 2: Upstream FTP service test (file provided by tester). |
| Test steps | The device is powered on and works normally, and the O-DU antenna mode is configured as 2 antennas. In the working mode 1, check the uplink and downlink rate of the cell (the UE side and the server side are monitored separately for the peak rate), when the uplink and downlink peak rate of the cell reaches 90% of the technical requirements at the same time and is stable for 10 seconds, the rate is considered valid, the number of NR cells supported by the O-DU is recorded, and the uplink and downlink rate of each UE is recorded. And use the digital display power supply to record the voltage and current of the O-DU;  In the working mode 2: On the basis of working mode 1, the tester randomly designates an NR cell to perform an uplink FTP test, checks whether the uplink rate of the cell (the UE side and the server side are monitored for the peak rate) is the same as the uplink rate in step 2, and checks the uploaded file and voltage and current on the server side. |
| Expected results | The cell capacity is compliant to O-RAN.WG7.IPC-HAR.0-v03.00. |

## 5.7 Power consumption

| Reference networking |  |
| --- | --- |
| Purpose of the test | Verify the power consumption capability of the O-DU. |
| Test conditions | The O-DU is tested according to 4 100MHz NR cells; The NR channel bandwidth is set to 100MHz. The uplink and downlink use UDP full buffer service. The O-DU is powered by a program-controlled power supply. |
| Test steps | The device is powered on and works normally, and the O-DU antenna mode is configured as 2 antennas. When the uplink and downlink peak rate of the cell reaches 90% of the technical requirements and is stably maintained for 10 seconds, the rate is considered valid, the number of NR cells supported by the O-DU is recorded, and the uplink and downlink rate of each UE is recorded.  Record the voltage and current of the O-DU monitored by the program-controlled power supply. |
| Expected results | The power consumption and the peak rate meets the requirements in O-RAN.WG7.IPC-HAR.0-v03.00. |

# 6 O-RU Hardware Tests

## 6.1 Operating frequency band, bandwidth and carrier configuration

| Reference networking |  |
| --- | --- |
| Purpose of the test | Confirm the O-RU’s ability to support the requirements of the frequency band, bandwidth and carrier configuration. |
| Test conditions | There are 1 types of carrier configuration schemes for RF units with 100M NR bandwidth: Carrier configuration 1: 100M NR;  The uplink and downlink use UDP full buffer services; O-RU full power transmission; The O-DU is powered by a program-controlled power supply. |
| Test steps | Refer to the network diagram to build the test environment; The O-DU is connected to no less than 1 O-RU, and both the O-DU and the O-RU work normally after powering on; Each cell is tested for the uplink and downlink peak rate; Observe the number of carriers and the bandwidth of each carrier, observe the uplink and downlink rate of each carrier (UE side), record the number of carriers supported by the radio unit, the cell frequency and bandwidth, and the uplink and downlink rate of each carrier; During the above test, the voltage and current of the program-controlled power supply are recorded; Record the number and rate of optical modules. |
| Expected results | For 100M devices, it can support carrier configuration 1 and the frequency point is correct. If carrier configuration 1 can be established, and the uplink and downlink peak rates of the NR cell are not less than 90% of the technical requirements, the device supports this carrier configuration. |

## 6.2 TX power and RF power configuration

| Reference networking |  |
| --- | --- |
| Purpose of the test | Confirm that the O-RU supports RF power configuration; Confirm the transmit power of the O-RU. |
| Test conditions | 1 O-DU cascade 1 FHGW, 1 FHGW cascade 1 O-RU; The NR standard configured as 100MHz signal bandwidth. |
| Test steps | Transmit power: Start the transmitter, the NR working mode is NR-FR1-TM3.1a, and the power of each carrier is distributed according to the principle of maximum power and equal power spectral density. For each carrier, the integrated power of all downlink subframes in the channel bandwidth for 20ms is measured and recorded; Traverse all RF channels and repeat steps 1~2 to record separately. Channel power independent configuration: Start the transmitter, the NR working mode is NR-FR1-TM3.1a, and the power of each carrier is distributed according to the principle of maximum power and equal power spectral density. Adjusted the power of each channel separately, and the integrated power of all downlink subframes in the channel bandwidth for 20ms is measured and recorded. |
| Expected results | Principle of Transmitting Power Judgment: The total transmit power meets the requirements in O-RAN.WG7.IPC-HAR.0-v03.00; Principle of channel power configuration: Support channel independent power adjustment (error does not exceed ±1dB). |

## 6.3 Number of RF channels

| Purpose of the test | Confirm the number of RF channels supported by the O-RU; |
| --- | --- |
| Test conditions | Preparation of O-RU. |
| Test steps | For the built-in antenna version, the number of RF channels of 5G NR is counted after the antenna oscillator is removed; For the external antenna version, count the number of output RF ports; |
| Expected results | RF channel determination principle for 2-channel equipment: For the built-in antenna version, the number of 5G NR RF channels should be two;  For the external antenna version, the number of output RF ports should be two. RF channel determination principle for 4-channel equipment: For the built-in antenna version, the number of 5G NR RF channels should be four;  For the external antenna version, the number of output RF ports should be four. |

## 6.4 Weight, dimensions, and volume

| Purpose of the test | Confirm the weight and dimensions of the O-RU; |
| --- | --- |
| Test conditions | Open the O-RU chassis and confirm that the internal hardware modules are complete. |
| Test steps | Place the O-RU on the scale and read out the weight of the O-RU; The maximum length, width and height of the main structure of the O-RU are directly measured with a tape measure (excluding the size of the O-RU joints and handles) to calculate the volume of the O-RU; |
| Expected results | The weight, dimension and volume of the O-RU meet the requirements in O-RAN.WG7.IPC-HAR.0-v03.00. |

## 6.5 Power supply capability

| Reference networking |  |
| --- | --- |
| Purpose of the test | Confirm the power supply requirements and transmission distance of the O-RU. |
| Test conditions | When the O-RU uses PoE power supply mode, the distance should not be less than 100m (the network cable must have a clear length indication); When the O-RU uses the power supply mode of the optical fiber with integrated power cable, the distance shall not be less than 200m (the optical fiber with integrated power cable must have a clear length indication); |
| Test steps | According to the requirements of the test conditions, the test system is built, 1 O-DU is cascaded with 1 FHGW, 1 FHGW is cascaded with 1 O-RU; For devices with a 100 MHz signal bandwidth, two 5G NR UEs are connected to the O-RU; Through the spectrum analyzer, each carrier is observed to be established normally, and each carrier is tested according to the maximum power transmission, and the uplink and downlink peak rate are tested. During the test, the distance between the O-RU and the FHGW is recorded; During the test, observe whether the O-RU can be powered by PoE or optical fiber with integrated power cable. |
| Expected results | FHGW has the ability to provide PoE or optical fiber with integrated power cable power supply to O-RU equipment; If the O-RU uses PoE power supply mode, the distance from FHGW to O-RU is not less than 100m; If the O-RU uses the power supply mode of optical fiber with integrated power cable, the distance from FHGW to O-RU is not less than 200m. |

## 6.6 Power consumption

The O-RU power consumption test is completed using the RF test environment.

For the O-RU device under test that is powered by PoE or optical fiber with integrated power cable, the network cable or composite cable with the power supply lead stripped out should be prepared in advance, and the actual supply voltage should be read through the voltmeter at the power supply socket of the O-RU, and the actual supply current should be read through the oscilloscope current probe. The accuracy of voltmeters and current probes needs to be verified by a tester.

Full load power consumption test method: During the test process of each RF performance case, the supply voltage and current of the O-RU are recorded, and the average power consumption of each test case is regarded as the full load power consumption. For multi-band devices, all bands must transmit at rated power.

# 7 O-RU RF Tests

## 7.1 Tx Power accuracy

| Reference networking |  |
| --- | --- |
| Purpose of the test | Verify that the rated transmit power and stability of the device under test meet the requirements. |
| Test conditions | Set up the test environment according to the reference network and calibrate the path loss, which must be added to the measuring equipment; The measuring equipment is set to be synchronized and frame-triggered by an external reference signal, and data acquisition is performed only in the downstream time slot. |
| Test steps | The configuration is completed according to the frequency band and the number of carriers supported by the device; Start the transmitter, the NR working mode is NR-FR1-TM3.1a, and transmit at rated power; Using a spectrum analyzer, the integrated power of all downlink subframes in the channel bandwidth for 20ms is measured separately for each carrier; Traverse all low and high frequencies of all RF channels and record them separately. |
| Expected results | The maximum transmit power per carrier per channel is within ±2dB of its rated power. |

## 7.2 EVM

| Reference networking |  |
| --- | --- |
| Purpose of the test | Verify that the EVM of the device under test meets the requirements. |
| Test conditions | Set up the test environment according to the reference network and calibrate the path loss, which must be added to the measuring equipment; The measuring equipment is set to be synchronized and frame-triggered by an external reference signal, and data acquisition is performed only in the downstream time slot. |
| Test steps | The configuration is completed according to the frequency band and the number of carriers supported by the device; Start the transmitter, the NR working mode is NR-FR1-TM3.1a, transmit at rated power, and measure the EVM of the PDSCH channel of each NR carrier under 256QAM modulation;  Traverse all low and high frequencies of all RF channels and record them separately. |
| Expected results | All test results meet the following technical requirements: The EVM under 64QAM modulation is not higher than 5%; The EVM under 256QAM modulation is no higher than 3.5%. |

## 7.3 ACLR

| Reference networking |  |
| --- | --- |
| Purpose of the test | Verify that the ACLR of the device under test meets the requirements. |
| Test conditions | Set up the test environment according to the reference network and calibrate the path loss, which must be added to the measuring equipment; The measuring equipment is set to be synchronized and frame-triggered by an external reference signal, and data acquisition is performed only in the downstream time slot. |
| Test steps | The configuration is completed according to the frequency band and the number of carriers supported by the device; Start the transmitter, the NR working mode is NR-FR1-TM3.1a, and transmit at rated power; Using a spectrum analyzer, for each carrier, the ACLR of the two-sided adjacent channel is measured separately (in the case of dual carriers, only the single-sided adjacent channel is measured), and the detection mode is true RMS voltage or true average power;  Traverse all low and high frequencies of all RF channels and record them separately. |
| Expected results | The ACLR of the NR signal is no higher than -45dBc on each channel. |

## 7.4 Spurious emission

| Reference networking |  |
| --- | --- |
| Purpose of the test | Verify that the spurious emissions of the device under test meet the requirements. |
| Test conditions | Set up the test environment according to the reference network and calibrate the path loss, which must be added to the measuring equipment; The measuring equipment is set to be synchronized and frame-triggered by an external reference signal, and data acquisition is performed only in the downstream time slot. |
| Test steps | The configuration is completed according to the frequency band and the number of carriers supported by the device; Start the transmitter, the NR working mode is NR-FR1-TM3.1a, and transmit at rated power; According to the definition of spurious emission, the spectrum analyzer is set to RBW to 100kHz or 1MHz, Detector to RMS or Average, Trace to Max-hold, and Sweep Count to 10 times.  Set the start frequency and end frequency according to the spurious frequency band, and after the Sweep Count reaches the pre-set value, find the peak value in the frequency band and record it as the spurious value in the frequency band, and save the instrument screenshot; Traverse all low and high frequencies of all RF channels and record them separately. |
| Expected results | The spurious emission of the device is compliant to O-RAN.WG7.IPC-HAR.0-v03.00. |

## 7.5 Reference sensitivity

| Reference networking |  |
| --- | --- |
| Purpose of the test | Verify that the reference sensitivity of the device under test meets the requirements. |
| Test conditions | Set up the test environment according to the reference network and calibrate the path loss, which must be added to the measuring equipment; Set the measuring equipment to be synchronized and triggered by external reference signals; If the device supports more than one frequency band, all frequency bands must maintain the power rating for transmission. |
| Test steps | The configuration is completed according to the frequency band and the number of carriers supported by the equipment, and all cells are established, and all supported frequency bands transmit downlink signals at rated power;  Set up a vector signal generator and output an uplink reference measurement signal as required; For each carrier, at least 10,000 subframes of data are received to calculate throughput using the throughput statistics or bit error rate statistics tools of the base station maintenance station. Adjust the output power value of the vector signal generator so that the throughput statistical value is slightly greater than 95%, and the power value is recorded as the reference sensitivity; Traversal test of carriers of all NR formats; Traverse all low and high frequencies of all RF channels and record them separately. |
| Expected results | NR reference sensitivity is not higher than -94dBm. |

## 7.6 ACS

| Reference networking |  |
| --- | --- |
| Purpose of the test | Verify that the ACS of the device under test meets the requirements. |
| Test conditions | Set up the test environment according to the reference network and calibrate the path loss, which must be added to the measuring equipment; Set the measuring equipment to be synchronized and triggered by external reference signals; If the device supports more than one frequency band, all frequency bands must maintain the power rating for transmission. |
| Test steps | The configuration is completed according to the frequency band and the number of carriers supported by the equipment, and all cells are established, and all supported frequency bands transmit downlink signals at rated power;  Set the vector signal generator, output the upstream reference measurement signal and the ACS interference signal as required, and note that the interference signal should have an ACLR of at least -49dBc to exclude the influence of the adjacent channel leakage of the interference signal on this test case; For each carrier, at least 10,000 subframes of data are received to calculate throughput using the throughput statistics or bit error rate statistics tools of the base station maintenance station. According to the power requirements, fix the useful signal, adjust the interference signal, make the throughput statistical value slightly greater than 95%, and record the interference signal power value;  According to the power requirements, fix the interference signal, adjust the useful signal, make the throughput statistical value slightly greater than 95%, and record the useful signal power value;  Traversal test of carriers of all NR formats; Traverse all low and high frequencies of all RF channels and record them separately. |
| Expected results | NR system, the useful signal is not higher than -88dBm, and the interference signal is not less than -44dBm. |

## 7.7 ICS

| Reference networking |  |
| --- | --- |
| Purpose of the test | Verify that the ICS of the device under test meets the requirements. |
| Test conditions | Set up the test environment according to the reference network and calibrate the path loss, which must be added to the measuring equipment; Set the measuring equipment to be synchronized and triggered by external reference signals; If the device supports more than one frequency band, all frequency bands must maintain the power rating for transmission. |
| Test steps | The configuration is completed according to the frequency band and the number of carriers supported by the equipment, and all cells are established, and all supported frequency bands transmit downlink signals at rated power; Set up a vector signal generator, output the upstream reference measurement signal and ICS interference signal as required, and note that the interference signal should have an ACLR of at least -49dBc to eliminate the influence of adjacent channel leakage of the interference signal on this test case; For each carrier, at least 10,000 subframes of data are received to calculate throughput using the throughput statistics or bit error rate statistics tools of the base station maintenance station. According to the power requirements, fix the useful signal, adjust the interference signal, make the throughput statistical value slightly greater than 95%, and record the interference signal power value;  According to the power requirements, fix the interference signal, adjust the useful signal, make the throughput statistical value slightly greater than 95%, and record the useful signal power value;  Traversal test of carriers of all NR formats; Traverse all low and high frequencies of all RF channels and record them separately. |
| Expected results | NR system, the useful signal is not higher than -91dBm, and the interference signal is not less than -63.4dBm. |

## 7.8 Anti-blocking

| Reference networking |  |
| --- | --- |
| Purpose of the test | Verify that the anti-blocking performance of the device under test meets the requirements. |
| Test conditions | Set up the test environment according to the reference network and calibrate the path loss, which must be added to the measuring equipment; Set the measuring equipment to be synchronized and triggered by external reference signals; If the device supports more than one frequency band, all frequency bands must maintain the power rating for transmission. |
| Test steps | The configuration is completed according to the frequency band and the number of carriers supported by the equipment, and all cells are established, and all supported frequency bands transmit downlink signals at rated power;  Set up a vector signal generator, and output the uplink reference measurement signal and the blocking interference signal as required; For each carrier, at least 10,000 subframes of data are received to calculate throughput using the throughput statistics or bit error rate statistics tools of the base station maintenance station. According to the power requirements, fix the useful signal, adjust the interference signal, make the throughput statistical value slightly greater than 95%, and record the interference signal power value;  According to the power requirements, fix the interference signal, adjust the useful signal, make the throughput statistical value slightly greater than 95%, and record the useful signal power value;  Traversal test of carriers of all NR formats; Traverse all low and high frequencies of all RF channels and record them separately. |
| Expected results | The anti-blocking performance of the device is compliant to O-RAN.WG7.IPC-HAR.0-v03.00. |


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG7.NES.0-R003-v03.0.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG7.NES.0-v03.00 O-RAN Work Group 7 (White-box Hardware Workgroup)"
---

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms apply: Active Mode reference power consumption: this refers to the O-RU (or O-RU/DU combo box) power consumption while user PRBs are being transmitted or received. Unless otherwise noted, for a TDD configuration we will define this to be the average O-RU power consumption for a continuous 75/25 DL/UL duty cycle, with allowance for PDCCH and PUCCH traffic as well as required symbol gaps. By default, it assumes that all available RF signal chains are enabled, for a given band, at the max bandwidth supported by the O-RU. Advanced Sleep Mode reference power consumption: this refers to the O-RU or (O-RU/DU combo box) power consumption when configured in one of the four defined sleep modes SM0- SM3. Note that a given O-RU may support only a subset of sleep modes SM0-SM3, or none at all. By default, the ASM reference power consumption is expressed in Watts, but a relative % reduction of power, vs the Active Mode reference power consumption above, is also acceptable. Beam: main lobe of a radiation pattern from an AAS BS
> NOTE: For certain AAS BS antenna array, there may be more than one beam.
Beamwidth: In a radiation-pattern cut containing the direction of the maximum of a lobe, the angle between the two directions in which the radiation intensity is one-half the maximum value, also called as half power beamwidth. Carrier aggregation: aggregation of two or more NR or E-UTRA component carriers in order to support wider transmission bandwidths. Within a band, component carriers can be adjacent (contiguous) or non-contiguous. If multiple component carriers are sent in different bands, this corresponds to inter-band carrier aggregation. Carrier Frequency: Center frequency of the cell. F1 interface: The standard interface between an O-CU and an O-DU specified in [8]. x Integrated architecture: An architecture wherein the O-RU and O-DU are implemented on one x x platform. Each O-RU and RF frontend are associated with one O-DU and are connected to O-CU via x x F1 interface Split architecture: An architecture wherein the O-RU and O-DU are physically separated from one x x another. A switch may aggregate multiple O-RU (s) to one O-DU . The O-DU , switch and O-RU (s) x x x x are connected by the fronthaul interface as defined in [4]. Transmission Reception Point (TRxP): Antenna array with one or more antenna elements available to the network located at a specific geographical location for a specific area. Occupied Bandwidth (OBW): It refers to the bandwidth occupied by the base station when operated, defined by the sum of the active bandwidths of the band allocation(s) operated. As defined by 3GPP TS 34.121 section 5.8, occupied bandwidth is the bandwidth containing 99% of the total integrated power of the transmitted spectrum, centered on the assigned channel frequency. The bandwidth between the 0.5% power frequency points is the occupied bandwidth. Instantaneous Bandwidth (IBW): It refers to the bandwidth in which all frequency components can be simultaneously analyzed. It is defined by the frequency boundaries of the operating band(s). Frequency Range: It refers to bandwidth defined by the frequency range within which the Base Station can be operated, defined by the band-pass filter of the BS, e.g., 3.4 – 3.8 GHz (400 MHz) gNB: A RAN node providing NR user plane and control plane protocol terminations towards the UE, and connected via the NG interface to the 5GC Frequency Band: A designated frequency range for the operation of the base station and the UE radios. 5G NR frequency bands are divided into two different frequency ranges: Frequency Range 1 (FR1) that mainly includes sub-6GHz frequency bands, some of which are bands traditionally used by previous standards but has been extended to cover potential new spectrum offerings from 410MHz to 7125MHz; Frequency Range 2 (FR2) that includes the FR2-1 frequency bands from

## 24.25 GHz to 52.6 GHz, as well as the FR2-2 bands covering 52.6 to 71 GHz. Bands in this millimeter
wave range have shorter range but higher available bandwidth than bands in the FR1. Fronthaul Gateway (FHGW): A fronthaul gateway is a physical entity that is located between a distributed unit and one or more radio units where it distributes, aggregates, and/or converts fronthaul protocols between the distributed unit and multiple radio units.

## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:

# N Transmission bandwidth configuration, expressed in units of resource blocks (for
RB E-UTRA and NR)

## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the [following] abbreviations [given in ... and the following] apply: Fronthaul interface split option as defined by O-RAN WG4, also referred to as 7-2x 3GPP Third Generation Partnership Project 5G Fifth Generation [Mobile Communications] 5GC 5G Core AAS Active Antenna System ACLR Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio ACS Adjacent Channel Selectivity ADC Analog to Digital Converter AFE Analog Front End AFU Antenna Filter Unit ASM Advanced Sleep Mode(s) BF Beamforming BMCA Best Master Clock Algorithm BPSK Binary Phase Shift Keying BS Base Station C2C Chip to Chip Interface CA Carrier Aggregation CAL Calibration CC Component Carrier CFR Crest Factor Reduction CLK Clock CPRI Common Public Radio Interface CU Central Unit DAC Digital to Analog Converter DDC Digital Down Conversion DDR Double Data Rate DFE Digital Front End DL Downlink DPD Digital Pre-Distortion DSP Digital Signal Processor DU Distributed Unit DUC Digital Up Conversion eCPRI Enhanced Common Public Radio Interface eNB e-NodeB=LTE Base Station gNB g-NodeB=NR Base Station EMC ElectroMagnetic Compatibility ES Energy Savings EVM Error Vector Magnitude FAPI Functional Application Platform Interface FEC Forward Error Correction FFT Fast Fourier Transform FH Fronthaul FHGW Fronthaul Gateway FHGWx→y Fronthaul Gateway that can translate FH protocol from an O-DUx with split option x to an O-RUy with split option y, with currently available option 7-2→8. FHM Fronthaul gateway with no FH protocol translation, supporting an O-DU with split option x and an O-RU with split option x, with currently available options 6→6, 7- 2→7.2, 8→8 FPGA Field Programmable Gate Array GbE Gigabit Ethernet GPP General Purpose Processor IEEE Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IMD InterModulation Distortion IP Internet Protocol I/O Input/Output JTAG Joint Test Action Group L1 Layer 1, also referred to as PHY or Physical Layer L2 Layer 2, also referred to as Data Link layer in OSI model L3 Layer 3, also referred to as Network layer in OSI model LLS Lower Layer Split LNA Low Noise Amplifier LTE Long Term Evolution MAC Media Access Control MIMO Multiple Input Multiple Output mMIMO Massive Multiple Input Multiple Output MCP Multi-Chip Package nFAPI Network Functional Application Platform Interface NES Network Energy Savings NC-CA Non-contiguous Carrier Aggregation NG Next Generation NR New Radio OAM Operations, Administrations and Maintenance O-CU O-RAN Centralized Unit as defined by O-RAN O-DU O-RAN Distributed Unit as defined by O-RAN O-DUx A specific O-RAN Distributed Unit having fronthaul split option x where x may be 6, 7-2 (as defined by WG4) or 8 O-RU O-RAN Radio Unit as defined by O-RAN O-RUx A specific O-RAN Radio Unit having fronthaul split option x, where x is 6, 7-2 (as defined by WG4) or 8, and which is used in a configuration where the fronthaul interface is the same at the O-DUx PA Power Amplifier PCIe Peripheral Component Interface Express PDCP Packet Data Convergence Protocol PHY Physical Layer, also referred as L1 PLL Phase Locked Loop POE Power over Ethernet QAM Quadrature Amplitude Modulation QPSK Quadrature Phase Shift Keying RAN Radio Access Network RF Radio Frequency RFIC Radio Frequency Integrated Circuit RFSoC Radio Frequency System on Chip RLC Radio Link Controller RRC Radio Resource Controller RU Radio Unit as defined by 3GPP RX Receiver SDU Service Data Unit SFP Small Form-factor Pluggable SFP+ Small Form-factor Pluggable Transceiver SoC System on Chip SPI Serial Peripheral Interface SSB Synchronization Signal Block ST Section Type TR Technical Report TS Technical Specification TX Transmitter UL Uplink VR Voltage Regulator WG Working Group

# 4 Overview of Network Energy Savings Scenarios
The NES methods and requirements documented here can, in general, apply to all forms of O-RU deployment. Some specific Network Energy savings mechanisms may, however, not be relevant to certain O-RU architecture deployments.

## 4.1 Deployment Scenarios
An O-DU can interface to multiple O-RUs, as shown in the figure below. When Network Energy Savings modes are applied based on traffic reduction, as is often the case, both the O-DU and O-RU power consumption can be expected to decrease, but this document will focus on O-RU Network Energy Savings. eNB/gNB O-DU LLS-C LLS-U LLS-C LLS-U ... O-RU O-RU The document ORAN-WG7.OMAC.HRD-v01.00, which provides the Hardware Reference Design spec for a Split 7-2 Outdoor Macro Cell, gives the figure below in section 2.3.1. Generally speaking, all of the sub-blocks below are subject to Network Energy Savings as a function of traffic or operational scenarios. The NES techniques described herein can apply to FR1 and FR2 deployments. In general, the methods for energy savings can apply to both TDD and FDD. The FDD forms will be inherently different, however, and will be described in a separate section. Cell type OMAC, OMC, and EMC Frequency Band Any valid FR1 or FR2 band As documented in OMC, OMAC, and EMC Instantaneous Bandwidth HRDs As documented in OMC, OMAC, and EMC Occupied Bandwidth HRDs As documented in OMC, OMAC, and EMC Inter site distance HRDs Antenna Configuration 4T4R ~ 64T64R O-RAN FH, Split Option 7.2x Fronthaul Type CAT-A and CAT-B Radio Units Midhaul Split Option 2

## 4.2 Carrier On/Off Network Energy Savings
From WG7 point of view, carrier Off/On means disabling or enabling a tx/rx Array carrier. The feature aims at reducing O-RU power consumption by switching off/on one or more carriers of the radio access network. Carrier switch off/on has two modes of operation: (i) Energy savings mode in which the radio’s power amplifiers remain with minimum current draw, and (ii) complete switch off (M-Plane enabled). In the frequency domain, there are at least three forms of carrier switch-off: (a) Disabling all the component carriers (CCs) and RF bands used at the O-RU site. (b) Disabling at least one of the multiple RF bands used at the O-RU site (c) Disabling usage of one or more CCs within a band at the O-RU site. All of the above actions shall allow for power reductions in the O-RU, with item (a) realizing the greatest reduction.

### 4.2.1 Disabling all the component carriers (CCs) and RF bands used at the O-RU site.
In this scenario, the cell or cell sector is disabled for some duration, e.g., several hours, and does not transmit or receive an RF signal for any of its supported Radio Access Technologies (RATs). It is still necessary for the O-RU to keep at least some of the fiber or wired links to the O-DU active, in order to receive M-Plane messages to resume operation, or report other management parameters. During this O-RU_Full_Disable state, the actual power savings will be vendor-dependent. The figure below provides an exemplary depiction of which O-RU sub-blocks would be in the lowest power states. The descriptors “Lowest Power State” and “Lower Power state” relate to the degree of functionality of each sub-block, which corresponds to the level of energy savings possible. Each sub-block will now be discussed: (a) RF Processing Unit. Since the O-RU is in a state where all carriers for all RATs are disabled, no RF functionality is needed. Thus all RF blocks can be in the lowest power state. Specific supply rails from the Power Unit may potentially be disabled. (b) Digital Processing Unit. In this context, the Digital Processing Unit relates to functionality directly associated with the RF signals, such as DFE, DPD, DDC/DUC, etc. Therefore, it can also be put into the lowest power state. Some supply rails may be disabled, or lowered in voltage to support retention of digital content. (c) Power Unit. As mentioned above, some supply rails can be disabled, or reconfigured to a more efficient mode associated with lower load currents. (d) Timing Unit. Power consumption may be lowered by disabling buffers or PLLs used to generate clocks for the RF Processing and Digital Processing Units. O-RU timing and frequency synchronization, as per IEEE 1588, should still be preserved. (e) eCPRI Unit. C-Plane and U-Plane message handling functionality can be disabled, but M- Plane message processing support will still be needed. (f) O-RAN FH. Some of the fiber link optical modules (e.g., QSFP) can be disabled since user plane data capacity is reduced to zero. The corresponding PHY transceivers that connect to the QSFPs can also be disabled. If instead wired Ethernet links are used instead of fiber, these unneeded Ethernet links can be put into one of the pre-defined Ethernet PHY low power modes. The wake-up time for this O-RU_Full_Disable state would be the longest of any of the Carrier Disable modes, since all RF-related functionality is disabled; C-Plane message processing may also be disabled. The wake-up time needed to get at least some of the carriers back on the air is expected to take 10s or 100s of msec.

### 4.2.2 Disabling at least one of the multiple RF bands used at the O-RU site
In this O-RU_Band_Disable scenario, the RF functionality for at least one of the operational bands is disabled. RF traffic on the other operational bands would continue, but it is anticipated that overall user traffic would be less, as this would be the normal pre-condition for disabling one of the RF bands. The diagram above shows one example scenario where, for an O-RU supporting NR TDD bands n78 and n41, one of the bands (n78 in the diagram) is disabled during lower traffic scenario. The architecture shown has dedicated XCVRs for n78 and n41, but it could be one transceiver with only the n78 RF paths disabled. In the figure, the n41 XCVR and associated RF front-end is shaded red to indicate full power operation. The n78 RF portion is shaded green to indicate it’s in its lowest power state. The Digital Baseband Unit is assumed to be one SOC or board that services both RF bands, and is shaded yellow to indicate it’s processing less digital traffic. In another form, there could be separate Digital Baseband Units for each RF band, in which case the n41 Baseband would be shaded red, and the n78 one shaded green. The recovery time to bring the disabled RF band back on the air is expected to be 10s of msec, but details depend on what sub-blocks were disabled in the RF XCVR. Data traffic can continue on the operational band, while the other band is being re-activated.

### 4.2.3 Disabling usage of one or more CCs within a band at the O-RU site.
In this O-RU_CC_disable scenario, the number of active component carriers (CCs) in a band are reduced, but the band still stays in operation. For example, as overall user traffic abates in the evening, the O-RU configuration could be modified to use two 50 MHz CCs instead of four. one CC active (bottom) The two figures above show a case where two CCs are used initially, then the O-RU reconfigures to use only one CC when user traffic diminishes. In the top figure, all sub-blocks are operating at the nominal power level required for two CC operation. In the lower figure, the digital baseband and XCVR are in a lower power state, as fewer CCs are being processed. The actual power savings for the digital baseband and XCVR block depend on implementation details such as which sub- component performs CC combining and splitting, whether contiguous or non-contiguous CA is used, etc. Note that, in the RF front end diagram in the lower portion, all sub-components are shown as red except for the PA. The other components will draw nearly the same power regardless of how many CCs are being sent. The RF PA, however, would be operating at approximately 3 dB lower output power (in the example above, and assuming full RB allocation for the two CC and one CC cases), so some reduction in energy consumption is expected. The recovery time to re-activate the disabled CCs requires further study. A closely related aspect is whether data traffic can continue on the already active CCs while the other CCs are being re- enabled. If so, then more time can be allowed to re-activate the dormant CCs. The details will be implementation dependent.

## 4.3 RF Channel Reconfiguration Network Energy Savings
The scope of RF Channel reconfiguration includes following actions (a) O-RU Array Rx/Tx ON/OFF e.g., 64Tx/Rx to 32Tx/Rx (b) Modify SU/MU MIMO spatial streams or data layers. (c) Modify number of SSB beams. (d) Modify O-RU Antenna Transmit power In mobile networks mMIMO radio unit has integrated antenna system that offers Single/Multiuser MIMO and beamforming capabilities to enhance cell capacity & throughput. The beamforming is achieved by exciting the array elements with appropriate weights. With this technique multiple uncorrelated beams can be generated, through which multiple data streams can be transmitted/received to/from UE during high-capacity requirement scenarios. In low-capacity scenario, i.e., when the expected traffic volume or number of connected users are lower than the configured threshold, energy savings can be achieved by reducing the power consumption of O- RUs by switching off certain Tx/Rx RF channels that are connected to the respective mMIMO array antenna elements/sub array. For example, 32 out of 64 RF channels connected to Tx/Rx Arrays of an O-RU can be switched off in a digital mMIMO architecture and correspondingly the number of spatial layers and SSBs can be reduced. The procedure (involvement of respective O-RAN interfaces) of the RF Channel Reconfiguration depends on the management architecture model (hybrid or hierarchical) and the deployment option. The off/on switch decision can be made by an AI/ML model within the inference host deployed at the non-RT RIC (denoted as deployment Option 1), or at the Near-RT RIC (denoted as deployment option 2) [11]. Among others the AI/ML models may include prediction of future traffic, user mobility, and resource usage and may also predict expected energy efficiency enhancements, resource usage, and network performance for different ES optimization states. The main aim of RF Channel Reconfiguration is to perform O-RU Tx/Rx Array selection. However, Tx/Rx Array reselection may require modifying the maximum number of spatial streams, the number of SSB beams or the O-RU Antenna transmit power. Hence the overall scope of RF Channel Reconfiguration includes the actions listed in Table 4.3-1. Action Name Explanation Possible Implementation Method
- O-RU reports all supported
O-RU Tx/Rx Array selection means Tx/Rx Array selections to O-DU switching off certain Tx/Rx Arrays or or to SMO via Open FH M- Array elements to reduce power Plane. O-RU Tx/Rx Array selection consumption of O-RU.
- Based on traffic load and user
Reselecting Rx/Tx Arrays may impact distribution the Non-RT/Near cell coverage. RT RIC will optimize Tx/Rx Array selection. The maximum number of spatial - O-RU may report the maximum streams may depend on the O-RU number of supported spatial Tx/Rx Array selection, and it may be streams for each Tx/Rx Array necessary to be modified along with selection. For example, 16 a new Tx/Rx Array selection. spatial streams for 64 Tx/Rx and spatial Layers for 32 Tx/Rx. A reduction of the number of spatial Modification of number of streams without Tx/Rx Array - Based on the traffic load and SU/MU MIMO spatial selection is not excluded as in the user distribution the O-RU streams or data layers certain scenarios the energy will be instructed about the consumption of O-RU and/or O-DU maximum number of spatial may be reduced by turning off streams to be used. Hence, the certain processing units of O-RU and/or O-DU may be able FPGA/GPUs, by running at a lower turn off certain processing units clock speed or turning off CPU/GPU that would be required to cores along with reduced processing processing a higher number of requirements. spatial streams. Modification of the - The number of SSB beams is The number of SSB beams may number of SSB beams controlled by the O-DU. Hence depend on the O-RU Tx/Rx Array the O-DU can be instructed via selection and the number of spatial Non-RT/Near-RT RIC to set the streams. Hence it may be necessary number of SSB beams based on to adapt the number of SSB beams. Tx/Rx Array selection.
- The O-RU power is configured
The maximum O-RU total transmit per Tx Array. Hence, the power may depend upon the O-RU modification may not be Modify the O-RU Antenna Tx/Rx Array selection; hence it may required when changing the O- Transmit power need to be modified along with RU Antenna selection from 64 Tx/Rx Array selection to compensate Tx/Rx to 32 Tx/Rx. However, if for reduced coverage in the possible, O-RU Tx power can be downlink. increased to compensate for reduced coverage.

## 4.4 Active Low Power Mode
Most of the Network Energy Savings mechanisms described so far lead to an explicit or implicit decrease in peak capacity due to the disablement of component carriers, MIMO/mMIMO data layers, number of antenna beams, and RF channel reconfiguration. These mechanisms are justified due to a decrease in network traffic or a change in the network operating environment. Another energy saving method i.e., “Active Low Power mode” can be employed by considering the reduction of the active mode power of the O-RU components, based on determining from network conditions and performance KPIs that such a change will not be deleterious to overall network performance. The rated O-RU traffic capacity would not change as all current active RF chains remain fully functional. Some examples of Active Low Power mode reductions are: (a) Reduce RF transmitter chain power consumption at least in multiple Watts, at the expense of relaxed ACLR, based on determining that nearby channels’ performance would not be impacted by such a parametric change in the transmit chain. (b) Reduce RF receiver front-end power consumption at least in hundreds of milli Watts, at the expense of relaxed front-end linearity (IP3), based on determining that average RX input levels have decreased. The average RX input levels can decrease due to reduced uplink traffic and/or decreased presence of “rogue” interfering signals. (c) Reduce RF receiver power consumption, at the expense of relaxed adjacent channel selectivity (ACS), based on determining that RF blockers are not present in sufficient magnitude to warrant full ACS performance. To determine if the RF chain power reductions have network performance impact, data exchange with the upper O-DU and CU layers may be needed. For example, the network would assess whether the O-RU power consumption reduction caused any degradation to the following KPIs, for both DL and UL traffic directions: (a) HARQ retry rates (b) Average MCS used (c) Average throughput per RB sent (d) Average energy per bit, If it is determined that these metrics were not impacted in a statistically significant way, then the lower power O-RU mode could be considered safe for continued operation. If, however, a degradation in these metrics was observed, then the RF chain configuration would revert to the full performance/default mode, or an intermediate mode. The KPIs would be assessed independently for UL and DL directions, as the low power modes may be applied separately to the RX and TX signal flows. For an O-RU supporting multiple bands, these Active Low Power mode power reductions can be applied independently to each band. The figure below shows the high-level functional block diagram of Active Low Power (ALP) mode implementation. Based on sensing RF and traffic metrics, the O-DU or CU would command the O- RU to enter a lower power mode for the RX or TX paths, or both. Performance data is periodically exchanged between O-RU and CU/DU to assess whether the power reductions negatively impact performance data. Some of the initial measurements to determine if the low power modes could be performed within the O-RU itself, e.g., average RX input power, incidence rate of signal overload events, etc. While normally the O-DU would command the O-RU to enter the Active Low Power mode, the O-RU could potentially engage this mode autonomously. This is certainly true in the case of an integrated O-RU/DU where the combined function box could autonomously determine network impact.

### 4.4.1 Benefit and trade-offs:
(a) A significant benefit of Active Low Power mode is that, as the name implies, power is reduced while DL or UL traffic is active. Thus, the power reduction is not directly dependent on decreased user traffic. (b) Another benefit is that the network conditions supporting the use of Active Low Power (ALP) mode would be expected to persist for several hours or even days. For example, late at night, the average user traffic would decrease, leading to statistically lower DL and UL RF levels being sent or received. On weekends, smaller “booster cells” associated with downtown business districts would be shut down or process much less traffic, potentially allowing ALP mode to be applied during the whole weekend. (c) The decisions process and feedback mechanisms to support ALP mode are very amenable to AI and Machine Learning algorithms, as well as statistical hypothesis testing methods. One drawback is that the procedure is somewhat empirical in that any network performance degradation cannot necessarily be predicted in advance. Thus, some short-term network impact could be seen when Active LP mode is first engaged, but the AI/ML “tuning” procedures could prevent this from happening in the long run. Additionally, network simulation models can also be used to predict the likelihood that any O-RU mode change would cause performance degradation.

## 4.5 TRX Control and Advanced Sleep modes (ASM)
In initial MVP-C proposals, Advanced Sleep modes were suggested as real-time messages to development in WG4, there are now four sleep modes, denoted as SM0, SM1, SM2, and SM3. An O-RU may support all of these sleep modes, a subset, or none at all. The O-RAN CUS-plane spec, Rel. 13, incorporates new features and commands enabling TRX Control and Advanced Sleep modes. These were developed in WG4 NES Phase 2 sessions during the period January through July 2023. The released WG4 CUS-plane spec is available at https://orandownloadsweb.azurewebsites.net/specifications The NES ST4 (Section Type 4) commands are issued by the O-DU and processed by the O-RU; the ST8 (Section Type 8) command is sent in the opposite direction. The table below summarizes the salient features of these commands. NES Cmd Sleep Sleep Wake-up Comment command- Scope depth Duration time Section type options TRX_control- ARRAY SM0- 28 32 to (2 -1) 1 to (2 - ST4 1 SM3 slots, or 1) usec for each of Indefinite SM0- SM3 Advanced ARRAY, SM0- 28 32 to (2 -1) 1 to (2 - Sleep Mode CARRIER, 1 SM3 slots, or 1) usec for (ASM)-ST4 O-RU each of Indefinite SM0- SM3 Ready-ST8 Any of Any of Any of Any of Required only if Above Above Above above wake-up time is minimum rather than guaranteed Note 1: An O-RU may implement any subset of SM0-SM3, including all or none. Note 2: An indefinite sleep duration is terminated by a subsequent wake-up command. Note 3: Wake-up times are pre-defined, and read from o-ran-module-cap.yang. They can be guaranteed, or minimum. In the latter case, ST8 Ready message is used to tell O-DU that wake-up is complete. A brief discussion of the WG4 NES changes, relative to the Rel. 12 CUS-plane spec, is provided below: (A) In section 7.2.9.2.3 of the Rel. 13 CUS-plane spec, the TRX CONTROL Section Type 4 command is defined, with detailed description in sections 7.4.6 and 16.2. This command supports only ARRAY-COMMAND scope. It provides for a portion of the targeted antenna array to be put into one of the four sleep modes described below. (B) In section 7.2.9.2.4, the Advanced Sleep Mode (ASM) Section Type 4 command is defined, with detailed description 7.4.6 and 16.3. The scope of an ASM command can be an antenna array (ARRAY-COMMAND scope), an array carrier (CARRIER-COMMAND scope), or the entire O-RU (O-RU-COMMAND scope). (C) In section 16.1, a table of four sleep modes SM0-SM3 is shown. These command names apply to both TRX-CONTROL and ASM commands, but the wake-up times will vary depending on the target of the command. Below is the table included in v13 CUS plane spec, section 16.1. TRX CONTROL wake-up duration ASM wake-up duration NOTE sleep mode 0 TRXC-mode0-wake-up-duration ASM-mode0-wake-up-duration sleep mode 1 TRXC-mode1-wake-up-duration ASM-mode1-wake-up-duration L sleep mode 2 TRXC-mode2-wake-up-duration ASM-mode2-wake-up-duration M sleep mode 3 TRXC-mode3-wake-up-duration ASM-mode3-wake-up-duration N
> NOTE: within clause 16 the shorter terms L, M, and N are sometimes used for these durations (either command)
a. It is required that the wake-up times comply with the following inequality: Sleep Mode 0 wake-up duration <L<M<N . Accordingly, it is expected that, for the same command object, ASM mode 3 saves the most power, and ASM mode 0 saves the least. (This is not a mandatory requirement, however.) b. Note that, for any of the four sleep modes, applied as either a TRX_CONTROL or ASM command, the object of the command (array, carrier, or entire O-RU) will become non-functional and not be able to receive or transmit RF signals. c. The amount of power saved in each sleep mode is O-RU implementation dependent. (D) The Section Type 8 command “ready” field is used by the O-RU to indicate to the O-DU that the wake-up procedure is completed, in the case where the wake-up time is a minimum, rather than guaranteed. The minimum duration mode may apply for cases where the wake- up time may be extended by the need for perform a sub-system recalibration, e.g., if the temperature varied by a certain amount during the sleep interval. (E) In section 16.12, an Emergency wake-up command is defined. This applies when a TRX_CONTROL or ASM sleep mode command is issued for a defined duration, but the O-DU later determines that it must wake-up the O-RU earlier. In this case, an M-Plane command is issued. More details regarding the TRX CONTROL and ASM Sleep mode commands are provided in sections 16.6 through 16.13 of the latest CUS-plane specification. Some practical examples are given in section 16.11.

# 5 Network Energy Savings KPIs and Figures of Merit
In section 2.1, the listed references [5], [12], and [13] all describe KPIs relating to Network Energy Efficiency, and associated measurement methods. Generally speaking, the Energy Efficiency equation has the following general form: Equation 5-1: Network_efficiency_KPI = (Network_parameter/Energy_Consumption) where both Network_parameter and Energy_Consumption are measured over a prescribed time interval. The convention is that “larger is better”, i.e., the Network_parameter should be as high as possible with Energy Consumption as low as possible. Also, the scope of these energy metrics is typically the entire network, e.g., the gNB, backhaul, core network, and the link from the core network to the Internet or Cloud network. In this report, however, we will focus on KPIs pertaining to the O-RU, whenever possible. (Some KPIs may not be easy to measure at an O-RU level.)

## 5.1 Discussion of Energy Efficiency KPIs relevant to this NES
report. In section 5.3 of [13], three mobile network KPIs are discussed, relating to total user data volume, coverage area, and latency. The most direct measure is the KPI relating to data volume: Equation 5-2: Data_energy_efficiency (DEE) = (Total_user_data_volume/Total_energy_Consumption)=(DV /EC ) where MN MN DV=User Data Volume (both UL and DL), EC=Energy Consumption, and MN= Mobile Network. An O-RU-oriented version of this metric would measure only the O-RU energy consumption as well as the user data passing through the O-RU. While the O-RU energy consumption can easily be measured, it is not as straightforward to measure the O-RU data volume. This would require counting the PDSCH and PUSCH RBs sent, while also knowing the MCS used for each. HARQ retry RBs would also have to be accounted for. It is possible to make some reasonable assumptions regarding the HARQ_retry RBs, as the MCS adjustment procedure in LTE and NR is designed to achieve a certain retry%, e.g., 10%. Regarding the MCS, with an integrated O-DU/O-RU deployment, the user downlink data volume is known since the O-DU function receives the actual user data units (PDUs). Based on these observations, we propose the following O-RU-centric Data Energy Efficiency metric: Equation 5-3: Data_energy_efficiency_RU (DEE ) = RU (Total_num_PRBs/Total_energy_Consumption )=(PRBV /EC ) where PRBV is the volume of RU RU RU RU PRBs sent or received by the O-RU in a certain observation interval, and EC is the energy RU consumption of the O-RU in that interval. The correspondence between the PRB volume (PRBV ) RU and the actual user data will be the subject of further study. Another KPI given in [13] is the Latency energy efficiency: Equation 5-4: Latency_energy_efficiency (LEE) = 1/(Avg_end_to_end_latency*Total_energy_Consumption)=1/( T *EC ) where T is the e2e MN e2e average latency for user data packets traversing the network from the radio to the Internet. Note that both terms are in the denominator, since these KPIs follow the rule “larger is better”. An O-RU-specific version of this metric is proposed: Equation 5-5: Latency_energy_efficiency_RU (LEE ) = RU 1/(Avg_end_to_end_latency *Total_energy_Consumption )=1/(T * EC ) where T is RU _RU e2e_RU RU e2e_RU the average latency for user data packets flowing through the O-RU in a reference observation interval, and EC is the energy consumption of the O-RU in that interval. The O-RU latency in the RU DL direction would be measured as the latency between when a user PRB arrives over the fiber link, in the form of an O-RAN User Plane data message, to the time that the corresponding RF I/Q data is sent out the TX antenna. Similarly, O-RU latency in the UL direction would be measured as the time between received RF I/Q samples at the antenna to corresponding PRB sent via User Plane message to the fiber. Equation 5-6 DL Energy Efficiency = Total_RF_pwr_into_antennas/Total_O-RU_pwr_consumption which would be measured during symbols where 100% of the RBs are transmitted. The KPI is adopted from the Open RAN MOU requirements [17] as discussed in section 5.2.3. The numerator quantity could be interpreted as the conducted RF power fed to the antenna port, for a BS Type 1- C interface as described in section 4.3.1 of [3], or as radiated power measured at the Radiated Interface Boundary (BS Type 1-H as per 4.3.2 of [3]). Measurement of the total RF pwr into the antennas cannot practically be performed during live operation. Therefore, it would either be: (a) measured in a controlled laboratory environment, with the value stored in each O-RU’s non- volatile memory, or (b) declared as the rated RF power for the O-RU. A single, fixed number would be used for each O- RU, but it shall be consistent with lab measurements for a sample population of O-RU. consumption In Figure 5-1 above, the relevant O-RU metrics associated with the latency, PRB traffic count, and O-RU power consumption are shown. The figure shows a -48V powered O-RU but alternative sources such as AC or +12V supply inputs are possible. The O-RU power consumption can be measured at the -48V input using the power monitoring unit shown above. The DL and UL PRBs could also be monitored via PRB counters in the digital processing unit, or the O-DU could keep a record of allocated DL and UL PRBs. With an integrated O-DU, user data packets could be monitored, which will be a more direct measurement than PRBs. While the end-to-end latency (shown above for DL traffic case) is easy to visualize, it may not be easy to measure in practice. More likely it would be characterized by design.

## 5.2 Discussion of O-RU-specific KPIs relevant to Network energy
Savings Here we provide a general discussion of the attributes or parameters associated with a given Network Energy saving mechanism. These may or may not impact the energy efficiency metrics discussed in the previous section.

### 5.2.1 Expected O-RU or O-RU/DU Network energy Savings Percentage
The basic expectation is that the Network Energy Savings methods described in section 4 all will reduce O-RU power consumption. The amount of savings will be implementation dependent, and O-RU or O-RU/DU vendors can differentiate their offerings by the degree of savings offered. Even so, it is useful to state the amount of energy savings or power reduction expected by each method, as a percentage of some reference value of energy or power consumption. The Carrier On/Off methods of Section 4.2 and the RF Channel Reconfiguration procedures of Section 4.3 will all reduce the Active mode reference power consumption of the O-RU, which is defined in section 3.1 for TDD mode as the average O-RU or O-RU+DU power for a 75/25 DL/UL symbol ratio, with no symbol gaps other than those needed for UE timing advance. The following table summarizes the various Phase 1 Energy Savings mechanisms, and their impact on the O-RU sub-blocks. In the last column, a rough estimate of total O-RU % power savings is offered. NES Traffic Wake- Traffic % Energy Comment Mechanism Capacity up Disruption Savings Impact Latency during re- range vs. activation of Active Mode disabled Ref. Power resources Consumption All RF No user 100s of N/A (already 80-99% carriers Data msec no traffic) shutoff traffic or several secs RF Band Yes1 No 40-50% Entire front end for disabled shutoff RF band can be put in very low power state CC shutoff Yes1 FFS Few % Limited reduction in RF within a Front-end power; main band power reduction will be via reducing JESD bandwidth and DUC/DDC filtering RX/TX Some msecs Likely 10s of % Reducing number of RF Array order impact2 or 10s front-end chains will directly reduction of msec reduce front-end power, which is dominant power consumer for medium and wide-area base stations Reduced # Likely Unclear Any change in # of antennas of MIMO required could be offset by spatial need for additional data layers symbols in time domain Note 1: Traffic capacity impact should be directly related to the amount of RF spectrum removed from service. Note 2: Traffic capacity impact depends on specifics of RF array re-configuration, e.g., reduction in # of beams could lead to reduced antenna gain, coverage range and DL/UL MCS utilized.

### 5.2.2 Diurnal O-RU power calculator
In references [5] and [15], methods for characterizing an NR FR1 base station power consumption in a defined set of test conditions are given. The base station activity model allows for three different loading states: (a) Low Load, (b) Medium Load, and (c) Busy Hour load. Additionally, as per Annex E of [5], user traffic is represented as a percentage of available PDSCH resources, and PUSCH is not explicitly accounted for. While these procedures are useful for measuring a candidate O-RU in a controlled lab environment, without having to generate simulated UE PRACH or PUSCH traffic, it may not fully represent the real-world network environment. For actual network scenarios, we propose an O-RU diurnal energy calculator based on the actual Downlink, Uplink, and SM0-SM3 power state percentages. The general format is shown in the table below. As energy cost per kW-hr may vary versus time of day, it is also shown as a variable. The daily totals of interest will be total energy consumed, and total energy cost. Average time spent in each of the power states can also be computed. This power compute framework has multiple benefits: A. Initially, during O-RU or network development, existing models of network traffic can be used to predict DL and UL percentages, with blank symbol periods then allocated to one of the four Advanced Sleep Modes SM0-SM3. Based on O-RU design targets for the different power states, total daily energy usage can be computed accordingly, along with trade-offs of network latency as a function of each sleep mode. B. Later, in actual deployment, O-RU energy metrics can be captured in real time, along with the power state percentages1, and uploaded periodically to the upper network management functions. AI and Machine Learning techniques can be used to tune the network sleep mode behavior so as to minimize total energy cost, while still achieving acceptable network latency, user perceived throughput, and other network performance metrics. Energy Energy usage Cost per Duration DL % UL % SM0 % SM1 % SM2% SM3% (kW-hr) kW-Hr Total Cost 00:00-01:00 01:00-02:00 02:00-03:00 03:00-04:00 04:00-05:00 05:00-06:00 06:00-07:00 07:00-08:00 08:00-09:00 09:00-10:00 10:00-11:00 11:00-12:00 12:00-13:00 13:00-14:00 14:00-15:00 15:00-16:00 16:00-17:00 17:00-18:00 18:00-19:00 20:00-21:00 21:00-22:00 22:00-23:00 23:00-00:00 Total daily Total TOTAL energy daily cost The table above can be enhanced to include other refinements, such as DL and UL PRB utilization percentage for the used PDSCH and PUSCH symbols, PRACH and SRS symbol percentage, # of TRs activated, etc. The O-RU energy consumption would be reported by O-RU to O-DU periodically. The O-DU should know the percentages for each power state (DL, UL, SM0-DM3), so the O-RU need not track these.

### 5.2.3 Open-MOU Energy KPIs and requirements
The Open RAN MOU group, consisting of five European operators2 , is not directly affiliated with the O-RAN Alliance. Its members are, however, part of O-RAN and have been working closely with the O-RAN Sustainability Focus Group (SuFG) to promote the Open RAN MOU requirements [1]. In particular, there are nine energy efficiency requirements (rel1_O-RU_26 through rel1_O-RU_34). For example, rel1_O-RU_26 reads as follows “Energy Efficiency of RRH in 2T2R / 4T4R / 8T8R configurations shall be at least 40% (with 100% traffic load)”. In discussions with SuFG, it came out that the definition is this KPI is really: DL_O-RU_Energy_Efficiency = Total_RF_pwr_into_antennas/Total_O-RU_pwr_consumption where the measurement is conducted with 100% of the total DL PRBs for the enabled carriers being transmitted. This KPI is now included in section 5.2.1, but O-RAN WG7 does not mandate any expected efficiency target.

### 5.2.4 O-RU Power calculation tool
WG7 has developed an Excel calculation tool to estimate O-RU power consumption, as well as the DL_Energy_Efficiency metric cited above. The tool will be located in the ZIP file containing this v2.0 technical report. Some snippets from the tool output are shown below. Some key points: 1. Normative Reference [16] provides some typical numbers for baseband and e-CPRI blocks, as well as PA output powers. Values similar to these are used in the O-RU Power calculation tool. 2. In the total output power roll-up in the right portion of the tool, for the TX power column, the DL energy efficiency power metric is computed. 3. While some of the detailed parameters such as PA efficiency, LNA power consumption, etc., are aligned with currently available RF Front end components, in no case were vendor power consumption values used literally. 4. The power for the baseband and e-CPRI components will depend on whether an FPGA or a dedicated ASIC is used, with the latter expected to draw less power. Most importantly, the tool’s purpose is to allow operators, RAN vendors, or SOC suppliers to estimate total O-RU power consumption and efficiency in different configurations. Each O-RU design will have a unique component set and thus different power consumption.

## 6.1 Feature to Command mapping table
The following table provides a high-level summary of the commands needed for each NES feature. NES Feature Document M-Plane or C- Commands Comment/Follow- section Plane control exist? up Disabling all RF 4.2.1 M-Plane Yes As per M-Plane bands section 15.3.2 Disabling one or 4.2.2 M-Plane Yes As per M-Plane more bands in section 15.3.2 an O-RU Disabling one or 4.2.3 M-Plane Yes As per M-Plane more CCs in an section 15.3.2 O-RU band RF Channel 4.3 M-Plane, No WG4 discussion Reconfiguration possibly C-Plane topic1 Active Low 4.4 M-Plane No M-Plane Power Mode command proposal pending1 Advanced Sleep 4.5 C-Plane, M- No Command Mode Plane formats now in WG4 discussion1 Note 1: Specifically, as of this version 1.00 publication date, command formats for RF Channel Reconfiguration and Advanced Sleep Modes were being discussed in O-RAN WG4. The M-Plane command CR for Active Low Power mode is also pending as of this 1.00 publication date.

## 6.2 Detailed discussion of command mapping
Here we discuss the NES features listed above, and the M-Plane or C-Plane commands required to M-Plane or C-command types involved, rather than outlining a very specific procedure. If in fact there are gaps, i.e., the necessary M-Plane or C-Plane commands do not exist, that is also noted. Some of the capabilities referenced below may be optional O-RU features, e.g., the hardware-state feature. The required features will not be referenced explicitly in the NES capability discussion below, but the associated M-Plane or C-Plane sections should be consulted to identify any optional features or capabilities required to realize the NES functionality.

### 6.2.1 Disabling all RF bands
The first step is de-activating all the antenna carriers in the O-RU. This is already supported in the M-Plane and Yang model when all carriers, in all bands, have been placed in the inactive state. Section 15.3.2 of the latest M-Plane spec discusses carrier de-activation procedures. Then, via the NETCONF procedures described in M-Plane spec section 9.1.3, the O-RU Controller can place the O-RU into the global SLEEPING power state3, where all O-RU functionality not needed for M-Plane support can be disabled. In this state, C-Plane commands to the O-RU cannot be guaranteed to produce a response, as the C-Plane command processor may itself be disabled. To bring the O-RU out of the SLEEPING power state, the O-RU Controller can execute the NETCONF procedure to transition the O-RU into the AWAKE power state.

### 6.2.2 Disabling one or more bands within an O-RU
This amounts to de-activating all the antenna carriers for a specific RF band, while leaving other bands active. The O-RU is thus still capable of processing user data traffic. The NETCONF client can place all tx-array-carrier and rx-array-carrier elements in the band into either the INACTIVE or SLEEP state, as discussed in M-Plane spec 15.3.2.

### 6.2.3 Disabling one or more CCs in a band within an O-RU
This means de-activating one or more antenna carriers within an active RF band, while leaving other carriers within that band active. The O-RU is still capable of processing user data traffic

# 3 See Yang module o-ran-hardware.yang
within that band, using the remaining CCs. The NETCONF client can place the unneeded tx-array- carrier and rx-array-carrier elements in the band into either the INACTIVE or SLEEP state, as discussed in M-Plane spec 15.3.2.

### 6.2.4 RF Channel Reconfiguration
RF Channel Reconfiguration amounts to de-activating groups of antenna carriers within an array, e.g., reconfiguring an rx or tx array from 64 elements to 32 elements. The purpose of such a reconfiguration may be to reduce the number of spatial streams/data layers, or reduce the number of antenna beams, or reduce the directivity of the existing beams. The capabilities described in M-Plane spec 15.4.2 and 15.4.3 may be used here, but it is unclear if these are sufficient. O-RAN Work Group 4 is evaluating additional CRs that will facilitate RF Channel reconfiguration.

### 6.2.5 Active Low Power mode
Active Low Power mode is intended as a persistent low power mode that can be applied to the RX and/or TX sub-components within an active RF band, while RF receive or transmit is occurring. An M-Plane command will be used to enable it, but this command is still to be defined4. The scope of the command is expected to be all RX or TX chains within an array, but finer granularity may be possible.

### 6.2.6 Advanced Sleep mode
Advanced Sleep mode is intended to put RF and baseband processing chains within the O-RU into a low power state, for durations spanning one or more slots, sub-frames, or frames. The exact format of the Advanced Sleep mode commands is, as of this writing, now being developed in WG4. Note that PRB and TX symbol blanking is already described in the C-Plane specification, sections 8.4.2.2 and 8.4.2.3. Additionally, section 7.7.7 SE7 describes how to aggregate multiple endpoints together for transmission blanking for Section type 0. Thus, multiple symbols for multiple endpoints (carriers) can be blanked using existing commands, but only within a slot.

# 7 O-RU Hardware changes required for NES support
The Network Energy Savings features described in this document may imply changes to the O-RU hardware architecture, and associated firmware, in order to provide an effective low power solution. In this Phase 1 TR, these are discussed at a high level. (As of the publication date of the 1.00 NES specification release)

## 7.1 RF Processing Unit changes
Referencing Figure 4-2, the RF Processing Unit may require the following changes to support significant power reductions: (a) Ability to quickly disable and enable the front-end RF PA, PA driver, and LNA blocks. Typical control interfaces could be GPIO, SPI, I2C or MIPI RFFE. (b) Ability to quickly disable and enable the RF transceiver chains that interface to the front end. The transceiver sub-components involved may include the ADCs and DACs, PLLs, mixers, channel filters, DFEs, I/Q interfaces5, CPUs, etc.

## 7.2 Digital Processing Unit and Timing Unit changes
Referencing Figure 4-2, the Digital Processing Unit and the Timing Unit may require the following changes to support effective power reductions: (a) Ability to quickly disable and enable the Digital Processing Unit sub-components. This may include I/Q interfaces6, Beam Forming HW or SW functions, FFT/iFFT HW or SW functions, PRACH processing functions, O-RAN CU-plane processing functions, fiber interfaces, etc. (b) Ability to quickly disable and enable the Timing Unit sub-components. This may include PLLs, clock distribution buffers, etc.

## 7.3 Energy Monitoring HW and data collection
The M-Plane data object epe-stats includes data fields for voltage, temperature, current, and power7. It can represent current/voltage/power for the entire O-RU or a sub-component. Figure 5-1 in section 5.1 shows the presence a power monitoring unit for measuring and recording the input power consumption. Some ICs that may be suitable for such a functionality are listed in


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG7.OMAC-HAR.0-v05.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG7.OMAC-HAR.0-v05.00 Technical Specification Outdoor Macrocell Hardware Architecture and Requirements (FR1) Specification"
---

# 25 Control, User and Synchronization Plane Specification”.
[5] Small Cell Forum, SCF222.10.02 5G FAPI: PHY API Specification, https://scf.io/en/documents/222_5G_FAPI_PHY_API_Specification.php (accessed on March 6, 2024) [6] Small Cell Forum, SCF223.10.01 5G FAPI: RF and Digital Frontend Control API, https://scf.io/en/documents/223_5G_FAPI_RF_and_Digital_Frontend_Control_API.php (accessed on March 6, 2024) [7] 3GPP TS 38.113: “NR: Base Station (BS) Electromagnetic Compatibility (EMC) [8] O-RAN.WG1.OAD-R003-v09.00 , O-RAN WG1: “O-RAN Architecture Description” - v09.00 [9] O-RAN.WG6.CADS-v04.00, O-RAN WG6: “Cloud Architecture and Deployment Scenarios for O-

# 34 RAN Virtualized RAN” – v04.00.
[10] O-RAN.WG4.MP.0-R003-v12.00 Technical Specification, “O-RAN Management Plane

# 36 Specification” – v12.00.
[11] O-RAN.TIFG.E2ETSTFWK.0-v01.00 , “O-RAN End-to-End System Testing Framework

# 38 Specification 1.0 “ – v01.00.
[12] O-RAN White Box Hardware Working Group Outdoor Macrocell Hardware Reference Design

# 3 Specification
[13] 3GPP TS 36.104: "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception". (Rel-17.6.0) [14] O-RAN.WG11.Security-Requirements-Specification.O-R003-v06.00, O-RAN WG11, “O-RAN

# 7 Security Requirements Specification 6.0 “ – v06.00.
[15] O-RAN.WG11.Security-Protocols-Specification.O-R003-v06.00, O-RAN WG11, “O-RAN Security

# 9 Protocols Specifications 6.0”, - v06.00.
[16] O-RAN.WG11.Security-Test-Specifications.O-R003-v04.00, O-RAN WG11, “O-RAN Security Test

# 11 Specifications 4.0”, - v04.00.
[17] O-RAN.SuFG.CE.-v01.00, O-RAN SuFG, “Circular economy guidelines on network equipment –

# 13 Technical Report”, - v01.00.

# 18 This section intentionally left blank.
This section intentionally left blank.3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in [2] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in [2]. For the base station classes of Pico, Micro and Macro, the definitions are given in [3].

# 25 Carrier Frequency: Center frequency of the cell.
F1 interface: The standard interface between an O-CU and an O-DUx specified in [8]. Integrated architecture: An architecture wherein the O-RU and O-DU are implemented on one platform. Each O- x x RU and RF frontend are associated with one O-DU and are connected to O-CU via F1 interface x x Split architecture: An architecture wherein the O-RU and O-DU are physically separated from one another. A switch x x may aggregate multiple O-RU (s) to one O-DU . The O-DU , switch and O-RU (s) are connected by the fronthaul x x x x interface as defined in [4]. Transmission Reception Point (TRxP): Antenna array with one or more antenna elements available to the network located at a specific geographical location for a specific area. Occupied Bandwidth (OBW): It refers to the bandwidth occupied by the base station when operated, defined by the sum of the active bandwidths of the band allocation(s) operated. As defined by 3GPP TS 34.121 section 5.8, occupied bandwidth is the bandwidth containing 99% of the total integrated power of the transmitted spectrum, centered on the assigned channel frequency. The bandwidth between the 0.5% power frequency points is the occupied bandwidth. Instantaneous Bandwidth (IBW): It refers to the bandwidth in which all frequency components can be simultaneously analyzed. It is defined by the frequency boundaries of the operating band(s). Frequency Range: It refers to bandwidth defined by the frequency range within which the Base Station can be operated, defined by the band-pass filter of the BS; e.g., 3.4 – 3.8 GHz (400 MHz) gNB: A RAN node providing NR user plane and control plane protocol terminations towards the UE, and connected via the NG interface to the 5GC Frequency Band: A designated frequency range for the operation of the base station and the UE radios. 5G NR frequency bands are divided into two different frequency ranges: Frequency Range 1 (FR1) that mainly includes sub-6GHz frequency bands, some of which are bands traditionally used by previous standards but has been extended to cover potential new spectrum offerings from 410MHz to 7125MHz; Frequency Range 2 (FR2) that includes frequency bands from 24.25 GHz to 52.6 GHz. Bands in this millimeter wave range have shorter range but higher available bandwidth than bands in the FR1. Fronthaul Gateway (FHGW): A fronthaul gateway is a physical entity that is located between a distributed unit and one or more radio units where it distributes, aggregates, and/or converts fronthaul protocols between the distributed unit and multiple radio units.

## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:

# N Transmission bandwidth configuration, expressed in units of resource blocks (for E-UTRA)
RB

## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in [2] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, as in [2]. 7-2x Fronthaul interface split option as defined by O-RAN WG4, also referred to as 7-2

# 21 3GPP Third Generation Partnership Project

# 22 5G Fifth-Generation [Mobile Communications]

# 23 5GC 5G Core

# 24 ACS Adjacent Channel Selectivity

# 25 ADC Analog to Digital Converter

# 26 AFE Analog Front End

# 27 AFU Antenna Filter Unit

# 28 BF Beamforming

# 29 BMCA Best Master Clock Algorithm

# 30 BPSK Binary Phase Shift Keying

# 31 BS Base Station

# 32 C2C Chip to Chip Interface

# 33 CAL Calibration

# 34 CFR Crest Factor Reduction

# 35 CLK Clock

# 36 CPRI Common Public Radio Interface

# 37 CU Central Unit

# 38 DAC Digital to Analog Converter

# 39 DDC Digital Down Conversion

# 40 DDR Double Data Rate

# 41 DFE Digital Front End

# 42 DL Downlink

# 43 DPD Digital Pre-Distortion

# 44 DSP Digital Signal Processor

# 4 EMC ElectroMagnetic Compatibility

# 5 EVM Error Vector Magnitude

# 6 FAPI Functional Application Platform Interface

# 7 FEC Forward Error Correction

# 8 FFT Fast Fourier Transform

# 9 FH Fronthaul

# 10 FHGW Fronthaul Gateway
FHGW Fronthaul Gateway that can translate FH protocol from an O-DU with split option x to an O-RU x→y x y with split option y, with currently available option 7-2x→8. FHM Fronthaul gateway with no FH protocol translation, supporting an O-DU with split option x and an O-RU with split option x, with currently available options 6→6, 7-2x→7-2x, 8→8

# 15 FPGA Field Programmable Gate Array

# 16 GbE Gigabit Ethernet

# 17 GPP General Purpose Processor

# 18 IEEE Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers

# 19 IMD InterModulation Distortion

# 20 IP Internet Protocol

# 21 I/O Input/Output

# 22 JTAG Joint Test Action Group
L1 Layer 1, also referred to as PHY or Physical Layer L2 Layer 2, also referred to as Data Link layer in OSI model L3 Layer 3, also referred to as Network layer in OSI model

# 26 LLS Lower Layer Split

# 27 LNA Low Noise Amplifier

# 28 LTE Long Term Evolution

# 29 MAC Media Access Control

# 30 MIMO Multiple Input Multiple Output
mMIMO Massive Multiple Input Multiple Output

# 32 MCP Multi-Chip Package
nFAPI Network Functional Application Platform Interface

# 34 NG Next Generation

# 35 NR New Radio

# 36 OAM Operations, Administrations and Maintenance

# 37 O-CU O-RAN Centralized Unit as defined by O-RAN

# 38 O-DU O-RAN Distributed Unit as defined by O-RAN
O-DU A specific O-RAN Distributed Unit having fronthaul split option x where x may be 6, 7-2x (as x defined by WG4) or 8

# 41 O-RU O-RAN Radio Unit as defined by O-RAN
O-RU A specific O-RAN Radio Unit having fronthaul split option x, where x is 6, 7-2x (as defined by x WG4) or 8, and which is used in a configuration where the fronthaul interface is the same at the

# 44 O-DU
x

# 45 PA Power Amplifier

# 46 PCIe Peripheral Component Interface Express

# 47 PDCP Packet Data Convergence Protocol

# 48 PHY Physical Layer, also referred as L1

# 49 PLL Phase Locked Loop

# 50 POE Power over Ethernet

# 51 QAM Quadrature Amplitude Modulation

# 3 RF Radio Frequency

# 4 RFIC Radio Frequency Integrated Circuit

# 5 RFSoC Radio Frequency System on Chip

# 6 RLC Radio Link Controller

# 7 RRC Radio Resource Controller

# 8 RU Radio Unit as defined by 3GPP

# 9 RX Receiver

# 10 SDU Service Data Unit

# 11 SFP Small Form-factor Pluggable

# 12 SFP+ Small Form-factor Pluggable Transceiver

# 13 SoC System on Chip

# 14 SPI Serial Peripheral Interface

# 15 TR Technical Report

# 16 TS Technical Specification

# 17 TX Transmitter

# 18 UL Uplink

# 19 USB Universal Serial Bus

# 20 WG Working Group

# 4 Deployment Scenarios and White Box Base Station
Architecture This chapter consists of two parts: the deployment scenario and the white box architecture. The deployment scenarios outline more specific functional requirements of the base station. All the reference designs shall meet these requirements in order to comply with O-RAN white box standard. In the white box hardware architecture section, it describes the overall gNB hardware architecture and function partition that meet the design requirements. The details on each of these topics are described in the following sections.

## 4.1 Deployment Scenarios
The outdoor macro-cell is the targeted deployment scenario of this specification. The requirements of the outdoor macro- cell base station are listed in the white-box Deployment Scenarios and Base Station Classes document [1]. Some of the key requirements described in that document are highlighted here.

# 33 Table 4.1-1 Deployment scenarios
Cell type Outdoor Macro-cell FR1 (n26, n29, n41, n66, n70, n71, n77, n78, B1/n1, Frequency Band B3/n3, B7/n7, n78 CEPT(*)). Up to 205 MHz for FDD Instantaneous Bandwidth Up to 400 MHz for TDD Up to 205 MHz for FDD Occupied Bandwidth up to 300 MHz for TDD Inter site distance 0.5 ~ 2 mile(s) Antenna Configuration 4T4R ~ 64T64R O-RAN FH, Split Option 7-2x Fronthaul Type CAT-A and CAT-B Radio Units Midhaul Split Option 2 (*) n78 CEPT makes reference to an European n78 sub-band (according with ECC Decision (11) 06 and

## 4.2 White Box Base Station Architecture
In general, the base station hardware architecture can be classified when O-DU is at cell site or O-DU is at the data 7-2x 7-2x center. In both cases, O-RAN fronthaul split 7-2x and 3GPP standard interface F1 will be used. When O-DU is at the cell site, the O-RUs will be connected from a multi-sector cell site to the O-DU An optional 7-2x 7-2x . switch/cell site router may be used between cell site O-RUs and O-DU (i.e. Scenario E.1 from WG6). 7-2x When O-DU is at a data center (i.e., the Edge Cloud from [9]), cell site routers/switches will aggregate O-RUs from 7-2x multiple cell sites to the O-DU . The O-DU will be connected to the O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP in the mid-haul through 7-2x 7-2x F1-C and F1-U interface. The O-CU-CP/O-CU-UP can be in a remote data center (i.e. the Regional Cloud in Scenario C from [9]) or, respectively the O-CU-CP/O-CU-UP can be co-located with O-DU in the data center (i.e. the Edge Cloud 7-2x in Scenario B from [9]). Accordingly, when the O-DU is deployed at a data center site (i.e., on the Edge Cloud, either 7-2x on a bare-metal machine or as a container/virtual-machine), the servers running the O-DU shall follow the existing and 7-2x upcoming specifications from O-RAN WG6. The cell site cloud specifications are for further study in WG6. The architecture when O-DU is at the cell site is shown in Figure 4.2-1. The O-DU with integrated switch/cell site 7-2x 7-2x router is considered for this architecture.

# O -C
C o U n -C n e P c tiv ity (E

# O -CU
O th -C U e rn -U P e t) C o n n e c

# O -D U
7-2 tiv ity (E th

# O -D U 7-2
e rn e t)

# F H M /S w itc h
R o u te r (O p tio n a l) /

# O -R AN (Split O
Fronth au l ption 7-2x) O O O -R -R -R U U U 7-2 7-2 7-2 Figure 4.2-1: Outdoor macro-cell architecture with O-DU at cell site and data center 7-2x

# 5 White Box Hardware Architecture
Based on the gNB physical implementation architectures discussed earlier, this chapter provides the architecture, major building blocks and all external/internal interfaces for each whitebox.

## 5.1 O-CU Hardware Architecture
In 3GPP system architecture, the gNB Central Unit (CU) communicates with the Distributed Unit (DU) via an F1 interface [8]. This interface has been adopted by O-RAN Alliance for O-CU and O-DU connection. F1 is an IP-based protocol interface. F1 interface is split into F1-C and F1-U interfaces. F1-C interface is used for the management of interface setup/configuration, system information, UE context, RRC transfer, paging and warning message transfer. F1-U interface is used for user data transfer and flow control.

### 5.1.1 O-CU Architecture Diagram
The O-CU can be implemented with any General-Purpose Processor (GPP) based platform having an optional hardware accelerator block. The O-CU functions can be implemented either on separated hardware platforms or on the same hardware platforms integrated with O-DU functions. In either case, the O-CU hosts L2/L3 functions, whereas O-DU x hosts L2/L1 functions which require different CPU, Storage, Acceleration and Networking capabilities. Figure 5.1-1 shows the hardware blocks and interfaces within the O-CU white box. Ethernet Digital Processing Hardware Interface Unit Accelerator Backhaul (Ethernet or Ethernet Wireless) Interface F1 Interface O-CU (Ethernet)

# 17 Figure 5.1-1: O-CU Hardware Block Diagram

### 5.1.2 O-CU Functional Module Description
The O-CU functional architecture comprises Digital Signal Processing, optional HW Acceleration, and Connectivity (GbE) units as well as memory and storage units as shown in Figure 5.1-1

### 5.1.3 O-CU Interfaces
The O-CU interfaces through backhaul with the vEPC or 5GC core network and via F1 interface with the O-DU . The 7-2x backhaul and the F1 interfaces are typically implemented with GbE transport/connections.

## 5.2 O-DU Hardware Architecture when deployed at cell site

# 24 7-2x
Depending on the 3GPP standards and category of the radio unit, the split function blocks within O-DU and O-RU 7-2x 7-2x may vary accordingly. The O-RAN fronthaul C/U/S-plane specification [4] provides comprehensive information on this topic. The hardware functional partition architecture is shown in Figure 5.2-1. The High-PHY functions in O-DU are 7-2x run on Digital Processing Unit, Hardware Accelerator, or both. F1 Interface

# O - D U
H a r d w a A c c e le r a E th e rn e t In te r fa c e

# 7 -2
r e t o r P r o c De ig s s itin a l g U n it Tim in g and Syn ch ro nizatio n (IEEE 1588) E th e rn e t In te r fa c e

# O -R A N F
In te r fa c He LP oH wY

# O - R U 7 -2

# 5 Figure 5.2-1: O-DU with split physical layer function
7-2x

### 5.2.1 O-DU Functional Module Description

# 6 7-2x
The choice of O-DU hardware components depends on the product design requirements and is outside the scope of 7-2x this specification. Their descriptions are as follows:

# 9 Digital Processing Unit
The processing unit can be any GPP, FPGA or digital signal processor (DSP), with I/O chipset. It may also be in the form of System-On-Chip (SOC), or Multi-Chip Package (MCP).

# 12 Memory
DDR memory devices are used to store the runtime data and software for the processing unit.

# 14 Flash Memory
On board non-volatile storage device is used to store the firmware and non-volatile data, such as log data.

# 16 Board Management Controller
The controller is used to manage/control the power and monitors the operational status of the board.

# 18 Storage Device
The storage device such as hard drive is used to store OS, driver and applications software.

# 20 Ethernet Controller
The Ethernet ports transport the fronthaul or backhaul traffic according to the gNB hardware node requirements. The Ethernet device shall support IEEE1588 based timing synchronization.

# 23 Hardware Accelerator
The hardware accelerator is an optional device. For performance improvement, hardware accelerator can be used to process computationally intensive functions (e.g., Forward Error Correction (FEC)) and to offload the processor. Hardware PCIe Accelerator Memory USB Ports USB DDR RAM Channel Flash Video Port VGA SPI Memory PCIe Slots PCIe Digital Processing Unit SMbus SMBus Port Storage Serial Ports RS232 SATA Drives Ethernet Timing Timing Signal Ethernet Ports

### 5.2.2 O-DU Interfaces

# 3 7-2x
The O-DU supported interfaces described below are also shown in Figure 5.2-2 7-2x

# 5 Memory Channel Interface

# 6 Support DDR4 and later memory interface.

# 7 PCIe Interface
Support for PCIe Gen3 x16 and later interface versions; the bandwidth depends on the use cases, and it can be used to connect an accelerator device or network card.

# 10 Ethernet Interfaces

# 11 Supports any one or combination of 1GbE/10GbE/25GbE/40GbE links.

# 12 Serial ATA Interface
SATA3 shall be supported in case of software storage, such as hard drive.

# 14 SPI Interface
The SPI interface connects the processor with flash type of device for firmware.

# 16 Video Interface

# 17 Video interface is optional

# 18 USB Interface
Used to connect with local device for debug or on-board firmware update.

# 20 Miscellaneous Interface
Other interfaces that may be needed such as serial port, JTAG, etc.

## 5.3 O-DU Hardware Architecture when deployed at cell site

## 5.4 O-DU Hardware Architecture when deployed at cell site

# 3 8

# 4 ‘This section intentionally left blank’

## 5.5 FHM/Switch - Option 7-2x to Option 7-2x Hardware
Architecture The FHGW in the case of split option 7-2x to 7-2x is a multiplexer or a switch where the received data packets are distributed among or aggregated from one or more O-RUs and the signaling and management are appropriately routed to or from specific O-RUs.

## 5.6 FHM/Switch - Option 6 to Option 6 Hardware Architecture

# 11 ‘This section intentionally left blank’

## 5.7 FHGW - Option 7-2x to Option 8 Hardware Architecture

# 12 7-2x->8
‘This section intentionally left blank’. Additional details will be provided in a separate document from the fronthaul gateway task group.

## 5.8 FHM/Switch - Option 8 to Option 8 Hardware Architecture
‘This section intentionally left blank’. Additional details will be provided in a separate document from the fronthaul gateway task group.

## 5.9 O-RU Hardware Architecture

# 18 7-2x
In this section, high level architectures are presented for various O-RU configuration with split 7-2x. The configurations are nTnR O-RU where ‘n’ is commonly considered to be 4 or 8 for O-RU and 32 or 64 for mMIMO O-RU. In Section 5.9.1, a high-level functional block diagram is described for nTnR O-RU.

### 5.9.1 O-RU Functional Module Description

# 22 7-2x
In Figure 5.9-1, we illustrate O-RU7-2x functional blocks that support O-RAN FH with split option 7-2x. There is at least one interface port which supports all fronthaul interface (for E.g., Optical Interface). For bandwidth reduction, O-RU7-2x architecture also supports the optional compression and decompression functions of FH interface. ASIC/FPGA based O- RAN Fronthaul Processing Unit of O-RU will receive the eCPRI packets and perform optical to electrical conversion, 7-2x decompression, and security aspects according to WG11 specifications. Subsequently, the packets are sent to DFE through packet interface. The DFE block of O-RU is responsible for Low-Phy functions such as FFT/IFFT, CP 7-2x addition/removal, and PRACH filtering. Additionally, DDC, DUC, CFR and DPD functions are also performed in DFE unit. The ADC and DAC functions are performed in the AFE, which are mixed signal blocks responsible for conversion of data between the digital to analog domains and vice versa. These signals from the AFE are fed to the Tx/Rx chains. The RF Processing /RF Front End Unit consists of an optional frequency converter (mixer), Power Amplifier (PA)/ Low Noise Amplifier (LNA) and Tx/Rx filters in N Tx/Rx chains. An antenna module follows that comprises of physical antenna, RF feed distribution/aggregation network, and optionally an antenna calibration network. The timing unit includes any clock and frequency synthesis required as well as other timing and synchronization circuits. The timing unit shall derive timing and synchronization for the O-RU7-2x based on the IEEE 1588v2 protocol. In addition, syncE may also be used for timing as defined in O-RAN FH WG4 specifications [4]. Figure 5.9-1: Generic O-RU Functional Module Diagram of 4T4R/8T8R 7-2x

## 5.10 O-RU Hardware Architecture

# 8 6

# 9 ‘This section intentionally left blank’

## 5.11 O-RU Hardware Architecture

# 10 8

# 11 ‘This section intentionally left blank’

## 5.12 Integrated gNB-DU Hardware Architecture
The Integrated O-DU & O-RU (O-RU Functional Split 2) is white box hardware is the platform that performs the O- DU functions such as upper L1 and lower L2 (MAC: multiplexing, scheduling, HARQ and RLC: segmentation, re- transmission, re-ordering) functions along with O-RU. The integrated hardware consists of DU & RU in a single box as shown in Figure 5.12-1. The integrated small cell (gNB-DU) shall support split option – 2 F1 Mid-haul interface termination [3GPP] towards gNB-CU and supports FAPI standard logical interface between Layer2 and Layer1 running on different HW options. Figure 5.12-1 Integrated O-DU & O-RU (gNB-DU) O-RU Split Option 2 Reference Design

### 5.12.1 O-DU portion Functional Module Description
In this Integrated architecture, O- DU functions such as upper L1 and lower L2 functions. L2 Chip will be having multiple interface support like DDR4, QSPI, 1G Ethernet, SFP, PCIe, JTAG, UART, EMMC and many more to support number of additional peripherals. The O-DU portion in the integrated architecture shown in Figure 5.12-2 and it depicts the interconnection of the components and external interfaces. O-DU portion is connected to O-RU portion via PCIe interface.

# 7 Figure 5.12-2 Functional Block Diagram for O-DU Portion

### 5.12.2 O-RU Portion of Integrated Reference Design
In Integrated architecture the O-RU portion contains the Digital Processing Unit Processing Unit, including the Transceiver, RFFE and other RF components, Clock and Synchronization & Power Unit. Digital processing unit is connected to O-DU portion NPU through PCIe interface.

# 12 5.12.2.1 O-RU High-Level Functional Block Diagram
Figure 5.12-3 is the high-level functional block diagram for O-RU portion in the Integrated architecture. It also highlights the internal/external interfaces that are required.

# 3 7-2x
In this section description and diagram for three types of possible NxM mMIMO O-RU High Level System Architecture are provided. mMIMO O-RU can be realized with different high level radio architecture based on various functional 7-2x splits and interface/interconnects between these functional blocks. The level of integration achieved on an SoC for different functional blocks can vary and that in turn can result in different O-RU architecture and the associated interconnects between the functional blocks. These functional splits can be realized through three possible configuration O-RU Architecture options as presented in

# 10 Figures 5.13-1, 5.13-2, and 5.13-3.
In mMIMO O-RU High Level System Architecture #1 as shown in Figure 5.13-1, eCPRI frame that comes from O-DU 7- is compressed/decompressed and processed by O-RAN Fronthaul Processing Unit & Beamformer block. Additionally, 2x security compliance may be carried out according to WG11 specifications. Subsequently, Digital Processing Unit that have FPGA/ASIC based DFE module receives the packets from O-RAN Fronthaul Processing Unit & Beamformer block and performs the functionalities such as compression/decompression, Low-Phy, DDC, DUC, CFR, and DPD. The ADC and DAC functions are performed in AFE block. All these three functional blocks can be part of a single SoC or can be split into multiple physical integrated circuits (IC) and connected with digital or packet-based interface. The functional block labelled RF Section, consists of an optional frequency converter (mixer), Power Amplifier (PA)/ Low Noise Amplifier (LNA). The filter is the next functional block in the path and is needed for each of the N Tx/Rx paths to meet the emissions in DL and provide the necessary selectivity for UL. The last functional block in the mMIMO RU system is the Antenna. Depending on the power level for each of the Tx chain in a mMIMO system, the filter could be integrated into the RF Section or could be integrated along with the antenna thus making it the AFU. In mMIMO O-RU, Tx/Rx reciprocity calibration is one of the important steps for optimal performance. Calibration is required to align the Tx and Rx chains in phase and amplitude. In some implementations, reciprocity calibration requires to implement a dedicated feedback path. Multiple options are possible for the design of such feedback path – the main three options are shown in Figures 5.13-1, 5.13-2, and 5.13-3. The main difference between each of the calibration options is the implementation of the feedback network and where the RF feedback and associated distribution circuitry resides. The calibration signal ultimately needs to be relayed back to the AFE, so that the phase and amplitude difference between each of the corresponding Tx-Rx chain and the phase and amplitude differences between the multiple Tx-Rx chains can be estimated and calibrated accurately to ensure uplink and downlink channel reciprocity to enable beamforming. In CAL option #1, the RF feedback and the distribution circuitry resides in the antenna module and all the RF components including the antenna are part of the Tx/Rx reciprocity calibration loop. In CAL option #2, the RF feedback and the distribution circuitry resides in the filter module and all the RF components till the filter module are part of the Tx/Rx reciprocity calibration. In CAL option #3, the RF feedback and the distribution circuitry resides in the RF Section and all the RF components till the RF Section’s output in the Tx path and input in the Rx path are part of the Tx/Rx reciprocity calibration. These calibration options (CAL option #1, #2 and #3) can apply to all three mMIMO O-RU architectures in

# 10 Figures 5.13-1, 5.13-2, and 5.13-3.
The timing unit includes any clock and frequency synthesis required as well as other timing and synchronization circuits. The Timing Unit shall derive timing and synchronization for the O-RU based on the IEEE 1588v2 protocol. In addition, 7-2x syncE may also be used for timing as defined in O-RAN FH WG4 specifications [4]. Figure 5.13-1: mMIMO [NxM]T[NxM]R O-RU High Level System Architecture #1 In mMIMO O-RU High Level System Architecture #2, the operations that are performed in DFE of mMIMO O-RU High Level System Architecture #1 are distributed between the O-RAN Fronthaul Processing Unit & Beamformer and AFE as shown in Figure 5.13-2. In particular, the Low-Phy functions of DFE are performed in the ASIC/FPGA for O-RAN Fronthaul Processing Unit & Beamformer and DDC, DUC, CFR, and DPD blocks of DFE are part of AFE in the RFIC as shown in Figure 5.13-2. The interconnect between the ASIC/FPGA for ORAN Fronthaul Processing Unit &

# 21 Beamformer.
Figure 5.13-2: mMIMO [NxM]T[NxM]R O-RU High Level System Architecture #2 In mMIMO O-RU High Level System Architecture #3, DFE and AFE functions are combined on a single DFE & AFE functional module as shown in Figure 5.13-3. In this architecture, (De-)Compression, Low-Phy, DDC, DUC, CFR, and DPD are part of same FPGA/ASIC. There is a packet-based interface/interconnect between the O-RAN Fronthaul Processing Unit & Beamformer and the DFE & AFE functional module. These modules can be on a single SoC or can be on different FPGA/ASIC. Figure 5.13-3: mMIMO [NxM]T[NxM]R O-RU High Level System Architecture #3

# 6 White Box Hardware Requirements
This chapter provides the requirements for various white boxes used within the outdoor macro cell base station. These white boxes are O-CU, O-DU and O-RU . The O-CU and O-DU can be implemented in an integrated fashion 7-2x 7-2x 7-2x into one white box hardware or they can be separated. The details of the testing and compliance to these requirements would be taken as part of the TIFG specification [11]. These requirements will be used to define a hardware reference design specification for the outdoor macro cell base station [12].

## 6.1 O-CU Requirements
O-CU requirements are described in the following sections, which include the performance, interface, environmental,

# 11 EMC, mechanical, thermal and power requirements.

### 6.1.1 O-CU Performance
The performance requirements of the O-CU are listed in Table 6.1-1.

# 14 Table 6.1-1 :O-CU Performance Requirements
Parameter Requirement Priority Synchronization • The solution shall support 1588v2 Synchronization. High
- T he solution shall support T-TSC (Telecom Time Slave Clock).
Peak Data Rate Peak data rate shall be calculated as defined in 3GPP TS 38.306 Control Plane < 20 ms (def: message1 to message 5) Latency High User Plane < 4 ms (def: PDCP SDU → PDCP SDU)

### 6.1.2 O-CU Interfaces
The interface requirements of the O-CU are listed in Table 6.1-2

# 23 .

### 6.1.3 O-CU Environmental and EMC
The EMC requirements of the O-CU are listed in Table 6.1-3.

# 4 Table 6.1-3: O-CU EMC Requirements
Parameter Requirement Priority Safety, EMC The solution shall comply with the requirements of 3GPP TS 38.113 (2017-12R15) High [7] for equipment used in telecommunication room Safety, EMC The solution shall be certified for the required regulatory compliance related to High EMC and safety Safety, Environment High and Reliability The solution shall support Front to Back airflow Safety, Environment High and Reliability The solution shall support Front Serviceability Safety, Environment High and Reliability The solution should support IP65 rated version (if implemented outdoors). Environment The solution should comply with the requirements of O-RAN SuFG Circular High economy guidelines on network equipment [17]

### 6.1.4 O-CU Mechanical, Thermal and Power
The mechanical, thermal, and power requirements of the O-CU are listed in Table 6.1-4 and Table 6.1-5.

# 7 Table 6.1-4: O-CU Mechanical Requirements
Parameter Requirement Priority Dimension High The solution shall be 1 rack unit in height The sled shall meet dimensions of 41 mm (Height) x 215 mm (Width) x 427.5 mm Dimension High (Depth) At least include the following status indicators: Status Indicator LED High
- 1 LED indicating on/off status of the power supply
- 1 LED indicating on/off status of the transmission link
Power Supply The solution shall support -48V DC power. The tolerance range should be within - High 42V and -58V DC Power Dissipation The maximum power consumption of the solution in normal conditions shall not High exceed 400W Power Drain High The solution shall have the ability to reduce the power drain when not at full load

## 6.2 O-DU Common Requirements
x The common requirements apply to all the O-DU regardless of the split option. However, in this version of the X specification, the focus will be on O-DU If more options get standardized in a future version of this document, some 7-2x. of these common requirements may be moved to the specific sub-sections in section 6.3.

### 6.2.1 O-DU Performance

# 7 7-2x
The performance requirements of the O-DU are listed in Table 6.2-1. 7-2x

# 9 Table 6.2-1: O-DU Performance Requirements
7-2x Parameter Requirement Priority For the O-DU7-2x at cell site serving the FDD bands with 4T4R radios, the solution shall support at least 210 MHz in downlink and 105 MHz in uplink O-DU7-2x server High Processing For the O-DU7-2x at data center serving the FDD bands with 4T4R radios, the solution shall support at least 2 x 210 MHz in downlink and 2 x 105 MHz in uplink Transmission Directly connected with O-RUs at cell site or Connected with O-RUs 40 km apart High distance For O-DU7-2x at cell site:
- The solution shall have a built-in GPS receiver for timing that supports PTP
Synchronization distribution compliant to G.8272.
- The solution shall comply with the following ITU-T specifications for SyncE:
o Definitions: ITU-T G.8260 o Architecture: ITU-T G.8261 o SSM transport channel and format: ITU-T G.8264 o Clock specifications: ITU-T G.8262 (EEC) o Functional model and SSM processing: ITU-T G.781
- The solution shall support IEEE 1588 Telecom Grand Master (T-TGM) using
G8275.1 profile.
- The solution shall support T-GM conversion to Telecom Boundary Clock (T-
TBC) when GPS is lost.
- The solution shall support Telecom Boundary Clock (T-TBC) per ITU-T
G.8273.2.
- The solution shall meet 4 hour holdover time of frequency, time/phase.
- The solution shall comply with input and output jitter and wander
requirements specified in ITU-T G.8262 (for EEC).
- For timing synchronization, the solution shall support ORAN LLS-C1/C2
configuration.
- The solution shall support alternate BMCA specified in G.8275.1
For O-DU7-2x at data center: Synchronization High
- For timing synchronization, the solution shall support ORAN LLS- C3
configuration.
- The solution shall support T-TSC.
Peak Rate Peak data rate to be calculated based on the formula provided in 3GPP TS 38.306 High DL: QPSK, 16QAM, 64QAM, 256QAM, (1024 QAM desired) Modulation High UL: π/2-BPSK, QPSK, 16QAM, 64QAM (256QAM/1024 QAM desired) Latency Up to 200 us fronthaul latency High

### 6.2.2 O-DU Interfaces

# 3 Table 6.2-2: O-DU Interface Requirements
7-2x Parameter Requirement Priority Fronthaul interfaces connected with either radio unit or fronthaul gateway High At least one NG interface to 5GC High Transport Interface At least one 1/10 GbE F1 Interface to connect with O-DU7-2x at cell site or High GbE F1 Interface to connect with O-DU7-2x at data center

### 6.2.3 O-DU Environmental and EMC
x The EMC requirements of the O-DU are listed in Table 6.2-3. 7-2x

# 7 Table 6.2-3: O-DU EMC Requirements
7-2x Parameter Requirement Priority Safety, EMC The solution shall comply with the requirements of 3GPP TS 38.113 (2017-12R15) High [7] for equipment used in telecommunication room Safety, EMC The solution shall be certified for the required regulatory compliance related to EMC High and safety Safety, Environment and The solution shall support Front to Back airflow High Reliability Safety, Environment and The solution shall support Front Serviceability High Reliability Safety, Environment and The solution should support IP65 rated version. (if implemented outdoors) High Reliability Environment The solution should comply with the requirements of O-RAN SuFG Circular economy High guidelines on network equipment [17]

### 6.2.4 O-DU Mechanical, Thermal and Power
x The mechanical and power requirements of the O-DU are listed in Table 6.2-4. 7-2x

# 4 Table 6.2-4: O-DU Mechanical Requirements
7-2x Parameter Requirement Priority Dimension The solution shall be 1 rack unit in height High For the O-DU7-2x at cell site, the solution dimensions shall not exceed 19 inch width and 18 inch depth Dimension High For the O-DU7-2x at data center, the sled shall meet dimensions of 41 mm (Height) x

# 4 Table 6.2-5: O-DU Thermal Requirements
7-2x Parameter Requirement Priority Environment and The solution shall support operating temperature ranges from 0℃ to 50℃ for data High Reliability center. Environment and The solution may have FANs to support temperature requirements. High Reliability Environment and The solution should support extended temperature range (-40℃ to +55℃) if Low Reliability implemented outdoors. Environment and The solution shall support in-band Redfish Chassis management High Reliability Environment and The solution shall have at least 4 dry contact inputs and ability for environmental High Reliability and cabinet alarms monitoring.

## 6.3 O-DU Split Option Specific Requirements
x

### 6.3.1 O-DU Specific Requirements

# 7 7-2x

# 8 ‘This section intentionally left blank’.

### 6.3.2 O-DU Specific Requirements

# 9 6

# 10 ‘This section intentionally left blank’.

### 6.3.3 O-DU Specific Requirements

# 11 8

# 12 ‘This section intentionally left blank’.

## 6.4 O-RU Common Requirements
x The common requirements apply to all the O-RU regardless of the split option. However, in this version of the X specification, the focus will be on O-RU If more options get standardized in a future version of this document, some 7-2x. of these common requirements may be moved to the specific sub-sections in section 6.5. In the outdoor environment, the O-RU hardware is placed on the rooftop, pole or wall of the coverage building; it 7-2x converts the baseband signals to RF signals for transmission over the air or vice versa. All radio requirements are subject to local regulatory limits, where applicable.

### 6.4.1 O-RU Performance

# 4 7-2x
The O-RU performance requirements cover all the aspects of radio unit including frequency bands, antenna 7-2x configurations, power efficiency, etc. Table 6.4-1 lists the performance parameters related to O-RU . 7-2x

# 7 Table 6.4-1: O-RU Performance Requirements
7-2x Parameter Requirement Priority B1/n1, B3/n3, B7/n7, n26, n29, n66, n70, n71, n77, n78, n78 European sub band (3400-3800 MHz according with ECC Decision (11)06 and CEPT Report 67). Operating band High All the bands according to 3GPP TS 36.104 [13] and 3GPP TS 38.104 [3] except n78 European sub-band. The IBW of the n66 O-RU7-2x shall be 90 MHz The OBW of the n66 O-RU7-2x shall be 90MHz. The DL IBW of the n70 O-RU7-2x shall be 25MHz, and its UL IBW shall be 15MHz. The DL OBW of the n70 O-RU7-2x shall be 25MHz, and its UL OBW shall be 15MHz. The IBW of the n26 O-RU7-2x shall be 7MHz. The OBW of the n26 O-RU7-2x shall be 7MHz. The IBW of the n29 O-RU7-2x shall be 11MHz. The OBW of the n29 O-RU7-2x shall be 11MHz. The IBW of the n71 O-RU7-2x shall be 35MHz. The OBW of the n71 O-RU7-2x shall be 35MHz. Bandwidth High The IBW of the n77 O-RU7-2x shall be 280MHz. The OBW of the n77 O-RU7-2x shall be 200MHz. The IBW of n78 O-RU7-2x shall be 400MHz. The OBW of n78 O-RU7-2x shall be up to 300MHz. The IBW of B1/n1 O-RU7-2x shall be 60MHz. The OBW of B1/n1 O-RU7-2x shall be 60MHz. The IBW of B3/n3 O-RU7-2x shall be 75MHz. The OBW of B3/n3 O-RU7-2x shall be 75MHz. The IBW of B7/n7 O-RU7-2x shall be 70MHz. The OBW of B7/n7 O-RU7-2x shall be 70MHz. Tri-band: n26+n29+n71 O-RU7-2x Multi-band The O-RU7-2x shall have at least 4 RF ports, with n71, n29, and n26 sharing the High operation same RF ports. Tri-band: B1/n1+B3/n3+B7/n7 The O-RU7-2x shall have at least 4 RF ports, with B1/n1, B3/n3, and B7/n7 sharing the same RF ports. Dual-band: n66+n70 The O-RU7-2x shall have at least 4 RF ports, with n66 and n70 sharing the same RF ports. Dual-band: B1/n1+B3/n3 High The O-RU7-2x shall have at least 4 RF ports, with B1/n1 and B3/n3 sharing the same RF ports. Dual-band: B1/n1+B7/n7 The O-RU7-2x shall have at least 4 RF ports, with B1/n1 and B7/n7 sharing the same RF ports. Expected Multi- Tri-band (n26+n29+n71): 4T4R High mode and Transceiver Tri-band (B1/n1+B3/n3+B7/n7): 4T4R Configuration (Number of Dual-band (n66+n70): 4T4R Transmit/Receive High Dual-band (B1/n1+B3/n3 or B3/n3+B7/n7): 4T4R Paths) Single-band (n77): 8T8R High Single-band (n77): 64T64R High Single-band (n78): 32T32R and 64T64R High Single-band (B1/n1 or B3/n3 or B7/n7): 4T4R High The EIRP/output power of the O-RU7-2x shall follow 3GPP TS38.141-1 and TS38- Output Power 141-2 requirements for normal and extreme conditions as well as for radiated and High Accuracy conducted tests. (It is desirable to remain within +/- 1dB of the set power under all operation condition.) Less than -85 dBm/MHz (-89 dBm/MHz desired) per antenna connector or TAB TX off Power Level High connector as per 3GPP TS 38.104 [3] 64QAM: EVM smaller than 8% (5% desired) EVM at maximum 256QAM: EVM smaller than 3.5% High output power For other modulations, refer to 3GPP TS 38.104 [3] Operating band The operating band unwanted emissions must satisfy the Category B limit defined unwanted High by the section 6.6.4 in 3GPP TS 38.104 [3]. emissions Transmitter The Operating band unwanted emissions must satisfy the Category B limit defined High spurious emissions by the section 6.6.5 in 3GPP TS 38.104 [3]. O-RU7-2x receiver Uplink Noise Figure shall be better than 1.9dB typical (average value in normal conditions ), 2.5dB Max ( worst case conditions) for single-band, Noise Figure High dual-band and tri-band. For massive MIMO, the noise figure requirement shall be lower than 3.5 dB The throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference Rx sensitivity measurement channel as specified in annex A.1 with parameters specified in 3GPP High TS 38.104 table 7.2.2-1 for Wide Area BS. In channel selection, ACS, In-band blocking, out-band blocking, IMD and other receiver specification must follow the 3GPP guidelines for the reference sensitivity is Blocking High allowed to degrade at most 6 dB under all scenarios of interference signal and corresponding level, as per table 7.4.1.2-1 of [3]. Except for all the RF specifications listed above, other RF specifications must follow Other specifications High the requirement in [3]. DL: QPSK, 16QAM, 64QAM, 256QAM, (1024 QAM desired) Modulation Mode High UL: π/2-BPSK, QPSK, 16QAM, 64QAM (256QAM/1024 QAM desired) The tri-band O-RU7-2x (n26+n29+n71): High 4T4R - n26 shall be 10W per port 4T4R - n29 shall be 40W per port 4T4R - n71 shall be 30W per port The tri-band O-RU7-2x (B1/n1+B3/n3+B7/n7): High 4T4R – B1/n1 shall be 40W per port 4T4R – B3/n3 shall be 40W per port 4T4R – B7/n7 shall be 40W per port The dual-band O-RU7-2x (n66+n70): The combined output power shall be at least 80W per port, under all operating conditions. The O-RU7-2x shall be able to allocate higher power level for n66 (example: 60W) and lower power level for n70 (example: 20W). The power setting shall be configurable by the operator. High The dual-band O-RU7-2x (B1/n1+B3/n3 or B1/n1+B7/n7): The combined output power Min. Output power shall be at least 80W per port, under all operating conditions. The O-RU7-2x shall support equal power allocation between bands and preferably should be able to allocate higher power level for B1/n1 (example: 60W) and lower power level for B3/n3 or B7/n3 (example: 20W) and vice versa. The power setting shall be configurable by the operator. Single band O-RU7-2x (n77):
- 8T8R: 40W per port
- 64T64R: 80dBm EIRP (integrated antenna)
Single band O-RU7-2x (B1/n1 or B3/n3): High
- 4T4R: 40W per port
Single band O-RU7-2x (B7/n7):
- 4T4R: 60W per port
For any Wide band O-RU7-2x (n78) product (32T32R and 64T64R) the EIRP shall be (for narrow beam at boresight; assuming SU-MIMO; no power sharing between High beams): > +78 dBm (Typically 55 dBm output power + 23 dBi) Regulation For n26 band, the O-RU7-2x shall have a feature limiting its TX power and meet FCC High rules on output power as outlined in part 90 and part 22. The EIRP/output power of the O-RU7-2x shall follow 3GPP TS38.141-1 and TS38- 141-2 requirements for normal and extreme conditions as well as for radiated and EIRP Stability High conducted tests. (It is desirable to remain within +/- 1dB of the set power under all operation condition.) The O-RU7-2x shall support GPS and/or IEEE 1588v2 for timing synchronization High based on O-RAN CUS plane specification [4]. The O-RU7-2x shall support Telecom Slave Clock (T-TSC) to the protocol(s) as Synchronization defined for the fronthaul interface. Furthermore, the O-RU7-2x shall provide additional High noise filtering to filter fronthaul interface dynamic noise which will help meeting 3GPP frequency accuracy requirement For timing synchronization, the O-RU7-2x shall support the mandatory configurations High as defined by O-RAN WG4 specification [4] For 4T4R radios:
- For n66, n70, n26, n29, n71 radios: At least one SFP 10G interface. High
- For B1/n1, B3/n3 and B7/n7: At least 2x10Gbps SFP+.
Optical Interface For any M-MIMO products the minimum number of Front haul Interface PHY ports should be 2x25Gpps, with SFP28 optical connectors, although 4x25Gbps High SFP28 should be needed depending on TRx configuration, IBW, OccBW, total number of carriers supported; DL/UL MU_MIMO paired layers supported, etc. Number of Beams: Up to 8 SSB beams (FR1) High 32T32R: High Horizontal plane: at least ±45 degrees (±60 degrees desirable) with side lobes suppression > 10dB (>15 dB desirable). Beamforming support (for 64T64R: massive MIMO radios) Horizontal plane: at least ±45 degrees (±60 degrees desirable) with side lobes suppression > 10dB (>15 dB desirable). 32T32R: High Vertical plane: At least ±5 degrees with side lobes suppression > 6dB (>10 dB desirable) At least ±2 degrees with side lobes suppression > 10dB (>15 dB desirable) 64T64R: Vertical plane: At least ±15 degrees with side lobes suppression > 6dB (>10 dB desirable) At least ±10 degrees with side lobes suppression > 10dB (>15 dB desirable) For M-MIMO products n78 or any subsets inside this band, the minimum number of Antenna elements single polarization antenna elements must be 192: (12 rows x8 columns x 2 dual High slant cross polar antenna elements). AAU Number of 16DL and 8UL simultaneous TX High user beams/layers per carrier

### 6.4.2 O-RU Interfaces

# 4 Table 6.4-2: O-RU Interface Requirements
7-2x Parameter Requirement Priority Fronthaul The O-RU7-2x shall be compliant to O-RAN CUS plane specification [4] High interface Fronthaul The O-RU7-2x shall be compliant to O-RAN M-plane specification [10] High interface Fronthaul The O-RU7-2x shall comply to M-Plane IOT Profile 1 specified in O-RAN M-plane High interface specification [10] The O-RU7-2x shall support at least one of the following NETCONF/YANG based High Fronthaul models for management plane as specified in O-RAN M-plane specification [10]: interface (a) hierarchical architecture model (b) hybrid architecture model Fronthaul The O-RU7-2x shall support direct connection between O-RU7-2x and O-DU7-2x for High interface fronthaul synchronization as specified in O-RAN CUS plane specification [4] Fronthaul The O-RU7-2x shall support LLS-C2 and LLS-C3 bridged connection between O-RU7- High interface 2x and O-DU7-2x for fronthaul synchronization as specified in O-RAN CUS plane specification [4]. Fronthaul The O-RU7-2x shall comply to all the test cases specified in O-RAN IOT specification High interface [11] Fronthaul The O-RU7-2x shall support Block floating point compression as specified in O-RAN High CUS plane specification [4]. The compression bits shall be configurable through interface EMS. Fronthaul The O-RU7-2x shall support Pre-configured Transport Delay Method as specified in O- High interface RAN CUS plane specification [4] Fronthaul The O-RU7-2x shall support transmission blanking as specified in O-RAN CUS plane High interface specification [4] Fronthaul The O-RU7-2x shall support the counters specified in O-RAN CUS plane specification High interface [4] Fronthaul The O-RU7-2x shall support the eCPRI header format, section type and section High interface extension type messages as specified in O-RAN CUS plane specification [4] Fronthaul The O-RU7-2x shall support G.8275.1 synchronization as specified in O-RAN CUS High interface plane specification [4] Fronthaul The O-RU7-2x shall support G.8275.2 synchronization as specified in O-RAN CUS High interface plane specification [4] Fronthaul The O-RU7-2x shall support IEEE 1914.3, ITU-T G.826x, G.827x series specified in O- High interface RAN CUS plane specification [4] Fronthaul The O-RU7-2x shall be compliant to security requirements specifications in High interface accordance with WG11 technical specifications [14] Fronthaul The O-RU7-2x shall be compliant to security protocol specifications in accordance with High interface WG11 technical specifications [15] Fronthaul The O-RU7-2x shall be compliant to security test specifications in accordance with High interface WG11 technical specifications [16]

### 6.4.3 O-RU Environmental and EMC

# 4 Table 6.4-3: O-RU Environmental and EMC Requirements
7-2x Parameter Requirement Priority Mounting method Back of antenna, Tower, Roof top, Pole, or Wall High RF Connector RF connector type should be 4.3-10 female. Location should be on the bottom of O- High RU7-2x, on left side of connector panel arranged in a single 1x4 row and dimensioned from the backside face. AISG Connector AISG Connector should be standard 8 pin female connector. Location should be on High the bottom of O-RU7-2x and dimensioned from the backside face. RET Connector O-RU7-2x shall provide direct support of antenna Remote Electrical Tilt via a specific High port for RET: DIN-8 RET, AISG 2.0. This port shall be located down of the unit. Optical Connector Optical Connector should be SFP+/SFP28. Location should be on the bottom of the High O-RU7-2x and dimensioned from the backside face. Power Connector Power connector should be: DC Circular Connector, Receptacle, 2-Pin Male. High Location should be on the bottom of O-RU7-2x and dimensioned from the backside face. Also, connector should be located on the far-right side of connector panel to allow ease of installation Lightning O-RU7-2x shall have lightning protection High Protection Grounding The O-RU7-2x shall support grounding. Ground connector should be a two-wire High ground lug. Grounding lug location should be on the bottom of the O-RU7-2x and dimensioned from the backside face The O-RU7-2x shall comply to the following EMC, Safety, Storage, and Transportation Requirements: CFR 47, Part 1.130, Part 15B, UL 62368-1, UL 50E, UL 60950-22, 3GPP 38.113, ETSI EN 300 019-2-4, Severity class 1, Telcordia GR-63, Zone4, EMC, Safety, Telcordia GR 487, Telcordia GR 63, ETSI 300 019-1-1 Class 1.3, and IEC-61000-4-5, Storage, and ETSI EN 301 489-1, 3GPP TS 37.113, 3GPP TS 37.114, Directive 2002/95/EC & High Transportation Directive 2011/65/EU, Directive 2002/96/EC, EU Radio Equipment Directive (RED) 2014/53/EU, ETSI EN 300 019-1-2, Class 2.3, ETSI EN300019-1-1 V2.1.4 (2003-04) Class 1.2: "Weather protected, not temperature-controlled storage locations", ETSI EN

# 300 019-1-3, class 3.2 (indoor site), ETSI EN 300 019-1-4, class 4.1 (outdoor site).
The solution should comply with the requirements of O-RAN SuFG Circular economy Environment High guidelines on network equipment [17]

### 6.4.4 O-RU Mechanical, Thermal and Power

# 4 Table 6.4-4: O-RU Mechanical, Thermal and Power Requirements
7-2x Parameter Requirement Priority The weight of the tri-band O-RU7-2x (n26+n29+n71) shall be less than 35kg. High The weight of the dual-band O-RU7-2x (n66+n70) shall be less than 30kg. High Weight (excluding The weight of the single band 64T64R O-RU7-2x (n77) shall be less than 50kg High mounting kit) The weight of the single band 8T8R O-RU7-2x (n77) shall be less than 33kg High The weight of the single band 32T32R O-RU7-2x (n78) shall be less than 30kg High The weight of the single band 64T64R O-RU7-2x (n78) shall be less than 40 kg The weight of the single band 4T4R O-RU7-2x (B1/n1 or B3/n3) shall be less than High 16kg The weight of the single band 4T4R O-RU7-2x (B7/n7) shall be less than 18kg High The weight of the dual band 4T4R O-RU7-2x (B1/n1+B3/n3 or B3/n3+B7/n7) shall be High less than 33kg The weight of the tri-band 4T4R O-RU7-2x (B1/n1+B3/n3+B7/n7) shall be less than High 35kg The volume of the tri-band O-RU7-2x (n26+n29+n71) shall be less than 33 Liter. High The volume of the dual-band O-RU7-2x (n66+n70) shall be less than 28 Liter. High The volume of the single-band 64T64R O-RU7-2x (n77) shall be less than 81 Liters. High The volume of the single-band 8T8R O-RU7-2x (n77) shall be less than 42.5 Liters. High The volume of the single-band 32T32R O-RU7-2x (n78) shall be less than 45 Liters. High Volume The volume of the single-band 64T64R O-RU7-2x (n78) shall be less than 55 Liters. The volume of the single-band 4T4R O-RU7-2x (B1/n1, B3/n3) shall be less than 16 High Liters. The volume of the single-band 4T4R O-RU7-2x (B7/n7) shall be less than 18 Liters. High The volume of the dual-band 4T4R O-RU7-2x (B1/n1+B3/n3 or B3/n3+B7/n7) shall be High less than 24 Liters. The volume of the tri-band 4T4R O-RU7-2x (B1/n1+B3/n3+B7/n7) shall be less than High

# 34 Liters.
Dimensions Maximum dimensions of tri-band O-RU7-2x (n26+n29+n71) and dual-band O-RU7-2x High (n66+n70) should be 462mm (L) x 340mm (W) x 177 mm (D). Physical dimensions shall not exceed 890mm x 500mm x 250mm for 64T64R n77 radio. Physical dimensions shall not exceed 420mm x 420mm x 240mm for 8T8R n77 radio. For 64T64R n78 radio L < 800mm x W < 400mm x D < 250 mm. (including connectors and radome/sunshield). Mounting Holes A pattern of M8 mounting holes should be located on backside of the O-RU7-2x, with a High total of 8 holes (4 towards top and 4 towards bottom). MTBF ≥ 250.000 hours for mMIMO Reliability MTBF ≥ 300.000 hours for non mMIMO; High In normal operating conditions (ETSI 300 019 environment temperature +25ºC). The tri-band O-RU7-2x (n26+n29+n71): shall be less than 1,200 Watt at 100% full High loading, under all operational conditions. The dual-band O-RU7-2x (n66+n70): shall be less than 1,200W at 100% full loading, High under all operational conditions. Power The single-band 64T64R O-RU7-2x (n77) shall be less than 1,810W at 100% full High Consumption loading, under all operational conditions. Typical power measurement for 100% load may be done following 3GPP procedures for TDD with 7D1S2U configuration using TM1.1 with ~75% DL ratio in the slot. The single-band 32T32R O-RU7-2x (n78) shall be less than 800W at 100% full High loading, under all operational conditions. Typical power measurement for 100% load may be done following 3GPP procedures for TDD with 7D1S2U configuration using TM1.1 with ~75% DL ratio in the slot. The Wide band 64T64R O-RU7-2x (n78) shall be less than 1000W, assuming at 100% High full loading, under all operational conditions and 55ºC, 320W output power. Typical power measurement for 100% load may be done following 3GPP procedures for TDD with (DDDSU, with special subframe 10:2:2 slot format) configuration using TM1.1 with ~80% DL ratio in the slot. No fans. For O-RU7-2x Single band B1/n1 or Single band B3/n3 products shall be less than High 500W, assuming at 100% full loading, under all operational conditions. At 55ºC and for natural cooling (no fans). For O-RU7-2x Single band B7/n7 products shall be less than 700W, assuming at 100% High full loading, under all operational conditions. At 55ºC and for natural cooling (no fans). For O-RU7-2x Dual band B1/n1+B3/n3 or B3/n3+B7/n7 products shall be less than High 950W, assuming at 100% full loading, under all operational conditions. At 55ºC and for natural cooling (no fans). For O-RU7-2x Tri-band B1/n1+B3/n3+B7/n7 products shall be less than 1300W, High assuming at 100% full loading, under all operational conditions. At 55ºC and for natural cooling (no fans). The O-RU7-2x shall operate with the nominal voltage of -48V High Power supply The O-RU7-2x shall have protection from power transients and surges with no High impact/degradation to its performance or operation. In case of power loss to the O-RU7-2x, and after the power is restored, the O-RU7-2x High shall be fully functional and operational without any human interaction/intervention. Level of protection O-RU7-2x shall be at a minimum IP65 rated if deployed outdoors High Temperature O-RU7-2x shall operate at the temperature range of -40℃ to ＋55℃ with both cold High start and hot start options. Humidity O-RU7-2x shall operate between 0.03 g/m3 and 30 g/m3 of absolute humidity High Atmospheric pressure O-RU7-2x shall operate between 70 kPa and 106 kPa atmospheric pressure High Cooling mode O-RU7-2x shall support convection air cooling High

## 6.5 O-RU Split Option Specific Requirements

### 6.5.1 O-RU Specific Requirements

# 4 7-2x

# 5 ‘This section intentionally left blank’.

### 6.5.2 O-RU Specific Requirements

# 6 6

# 7 ‘This section intentionally left blank’.

### 6.5.3 O-RU Specific Requirements

# 8 8

# 9 ‘This section intentionally left blank’.

## 6.6 FHGW/FHM – Common Requirements

## 6.7 FHGW/FHM – Split Option Specific Requirements

### 6.7.1 FHM/Switch for Split 7-2x, Specific Requirements

# 5 ‘This section intentionally left blank’.

### 6.7.2 FHGW Specific Requirements

# 6 7-2x->8

# 7 ‘This section intentionally left blank’.

### 6.7.3 FHM/Switch for Split 8, Specific Requirements

# 9 ‘This section intentionally left blank’.

## 6.8 Integrated gNB-DU Requirements

# 11 ‘This section intentionally left blank’.
History Date Revision Description Final version for publication Update on O-RU requirements to reflect WG11 outcomes on security Final version for publication. Added new section for Massive MIMO high level architecture and high-level reference architecture for Integrated gNB-DU Hardware Architecture (O-RU Functional Split 2)


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG7.OMAC-HRD.0-R004-v04.00.md -->
---
title: "Technical Specification Hardware Reference Design Specification for Outdoor Macrocell with Split Architecture Option 7.2"
---

# 8 Release x.y.z
where: x the first digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e., technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc. (the initial approved document will have x=01). y the second digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been incorporated in the document. z the third digit included only in working versions of the document indicating incremental changes during the editing process. This variable is for internal WG7 use only. The present document specifies system requirements and high-level architecture for the FR1 Outdoor Macrocell deployment scenario as specified in the Deployment Scenarios and Base Station Classes document [1]. In the main body of this specification (in any “chapter”) the information contained therein is informative, unless explicitly described as normative. Information contained in an “Annex” to this specification is always informative unless otherwise marked as normative.

## 1.2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this text, constitute provisions of the present document. [1] ORAN-WG7.DSC.0-V03.00 Technical Specification, ‘Deployment Scenarios and Base Station Classes for White Box Hardware’. https://www.o-ran.org/specifications. [2] 3GPP TR 21.905: "Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications". [3] 3GPP TS 38.104: "NR; Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception". [4] ORAN-WG4.CUS.0-v01.00 Technical Specification, ‘O-RAN Fronthaul Working Group Control, User and Synchronization Plane Specification’. https://www.o-ran.org/specifications [5] 3GPP TS 38.113:"NR: Base Station (BS) Electromagnetic Compatibility (EMC)". http://www.3gpp.org/ftp//Specs/archive/38_series/38.113/38113-f80.zip [6] O-RAN-WG7 OMAC Hardware Architecture Description - v02.00 Technical Specification ‘Outdoor

# 4 Macrocell Hardware Architecture and Requirements (FR1) Specification’
[7] https://www.rosenberger.com/0_documents/de/catalogs/ba_communication/catalog_coax/15_Cha pter _43-10_41-95.pdf [8] https://www.commscope.com/product-type/cable-assemblies/wireless-cable-assemblies/coaxial- cable-assemblies/itemmloc-f1xm-4/ [9] Zhong, J., Liu, D., Li, Z., &amp; Sun, X. (2012, August). High thermal conductivity materials and their application on the electronic products. In 2012 IEEE Asia-Pacific Conference on Antennas and

# 11 Propagation (pp. 173-175). IEEE.
[10] https://www.engineersedge.com/heat_transfer/convective_heat_transfer_coefficients__13378.htm [11] https://www.thermoworks.com/emissivity-table/ [12] “Serial Interface for Data Converters”, JESD204C.1, December 2021, www.jedec.org [13] “JESD204x Frame Mapping Table Generator”, https://www.analog.com/en/license/licensing- agreement/jesd204x-frame-mapping-table-generator.html

## 1.3 Definitions and Abbreviations

# 19 1.3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [2]. For the base station classes of Pico, Micro and Macro, the definitions are given in 3GPP TR 38.104 [3].

# 24 Carrier Frequency: Center frequency of the cell.
F1 interface: The open interface between O-CU and O-DU defined by 3GPP TS 38.473. Frequency Band: A designated frequency range for the operation of the base station and the UE radios. 5G NR frequency bands are divided into two different frequency ranges: Frequency Range 1 (FR1) that mainly includes sub-6GHz frequency bands, some of which are bands traditionally used by previous standards but has been extended to cover potential new spectrum offerings from 410MHz to 7125MHz; Frequency Range

# 14 1.3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in [2] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, as in [2]. 7-2x Fronthaul interface split option as defined by O-RAN WG4, also referred to as 7-2x

# 19 3GPP Third Generation Partnership Project

# 20 5G Fifth-Generation Mobile Communications

# 21 ADC Analog to Digital Converter

# 22 AFE Analog Front End

# 23 AFU Antenna Filter Unit

# 24 ASIC Application Specific Integrated Circuit

# 25 BBDEV Baseband Device

# 26 BH Backhaul

# 27 BMC Baseboard Management Controller

# 28 BPSK Binary Phase Shift Keying

# 29 BS Base Station

# 30 CISPR International Special Committee on Radio Interference

# 31 CFR Crest Factor Reduction

# 3 CPRI Common Public Radio Interface

# 4 CPU Central Processing Unit

# 5 CRC Cyclic Redundancy Check

# 6 DAC Digital to Analog Converter

# 7 DDC Digital Down Conversion

# 8 DDR Double Data Rate

# 9 DFE Digital Front End

# 10 DIMM Dual-Inline-Memory-Modules

# 11 DL Downlink

# 12 DPD Digital Pre-Distortion

# 13 DPDK Data Plane Development Kit

# 14 DSP Digital Signal Processor

# 15 DU Distributed Unit as defined by 3GPP

# 16 DUC Digital Up Conversion

# 17 ECC Error Correcting Code

# 18 EMI Electromagnetic Interference
eCPRI evolved Common Public Radio Interface

# 20 EMC Electro Magnetic Compatibility

# 21 EVM Error Vector Magnitude

# 22 FCC Federal Communications Commission

# 23 FEC Forward Error Correction

# 24 FFT Fast Fourier Transform

# 25 FH Fronthaul

# 26 FHGW Fronthaul Gateway
FHGW Fronthaul gateway with no FH protocol translation, supporting an O-DU with split option x x and an O-RU with split option x, with currently available options 6 6, 7-2x 7-2x and 8 8 → → → FHGW Fronthaul Gateway that can translate fronthaul protocol from an O-DU with split option x x→y to an O-RU with split option y, with currently available option 7-2x 8. →

# 3 FHHL Full Height Half Length

# 4 FPGA Field Programmable Gate Array

# 5 GbE Gigabit Ethernet

# 6 GNSS Global Navigation Satellite System

# 7 GPP General Purpose Processor

# 8 GPS Global Positioning System

# 9 HARQ Hybrid Automatic Repeat request

# 10 HHHL Half Height Half Length

# 11 IP67 Ingress Protection 67

# 12 IEEE Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers

# 13 IFFT Inverse Fast Fourier Transform

# 14 IMD Inter Modulation Distortion

# 15 I/O Input/Output

# 16 JTAG Joint Test Action Group

# 17 L1 Layer 1

# 18 LDPC Low-Density Parity Codes

# 19 LDO Low dropout

# 20 LRDIMM Load-Reduced Dual In-line Memory Module

# 21 LTE Long Term Evolution

# 22 LVDS Low-Voltage Differential Signaling

# 23 MAC Media Access Control

# 24 MCP Multi-Chip Package

# 25 MH Midhaul

# 26 MIG Memory Interface Generator

# 27 MII Media-Independent interface

# 28 MIMO Multiple Input Multiple Output

# 3 NetConf Network Configuration Protocol

# 4 NFV Network Functions Virtualization

# 5 NIC Network Interface Controller

# 6 NR New Radio

# 7 O-CU O-RAN Centralized Unit as defined by O-RAN
O-DU A specific O-RAN Distributed Unit having fronthaul split option x where x may be 6, 7-2x (as x defined by WG4) or 8 O-RU A specific O-RAN Radio Unit having fronthaul split option x, where x is 6, 7-2x (as defined by x WG4) or 8, and which is used in a configuration where the fronthaul interface is the same at the O-DUx

# 13 OCXO Oven Controlled Crystal Oscillator

# 14 ORx Observation Receiver

# 15 PAM Power Amplifier Module

# 16 PCIe Peripheral Component Interconnect express

# 17 PDCP Packet Data Convergence Protocol
pFIR Programable Finite Impulse Response filter

# 19 PHY Physical Layer

# 20 PIM Passive Intermodulation

# 21 PMBus Power Management Bus

# 22 POE Power over Ethernet

# 23 PPS Pulse Per Second

# 24 PRACH Physical Random-Access Channel

# 25 QAM Quadrature Amplitude Modulation

# 26 QPSK Quadrature Phase Shift Keying

# 27 QSFP Quad Small Form-factor Pluggable

# 28 RAN Radio Access Network

# 3 RFIC Radio Frequency Integrated Circuit

# 4 RoE Radio over Ethernet

# 5 RU Radio Unit as defined by 3GPP

# 6 RX Receiver

# 7 SATA Serial ATA

# 8 SDU Service Data Unit

# 9 SFP Small Form-factor Pluggable

# 10 SFP+ Small Form-factor Pluggable plus

# 11 SOC System On Chip

# 12 SPI Serial Peripheral Interface

# 13 SSD Solid State Drive

# 14 TCXO Temperature Compensated Crystal Oscillator

# 15 TDP Thermal Design Power

# 16 TR Technical Report

# 17 TS Technical Specification

# 18 TX Transmitter

# 19 UL Uplink

# 20 USB Universal Serial Bus

# 21 WG Working Group
Chapter 2 Hardware Reference Design 1 This chapter describes one example of white box hardware reference design including O-DU, O-RU.

# 16 2.1.1 O-CU High-Level Functional Block Diagram
[Intentionally left blank. Refer to O-DU Functional Block Diagram]

# 3 2.1.2.2 Hardware Accelerator (If required by design)

# 4 2.1.2.2.1 Accelerator Design 1

# 5 2.1.2.2.2 Accelerator Design 2

# 6 2.1.3 Synchronization and Timing

# 7 2.1.4 External Interface Ports

# 8 2.1.5 O-CU Firmware (if needed)

# 9 2.1.6 Mechanical

# 10 2.1.7 Power Unit

# 11 2.1.8 Thermal

# 12 2.1.9 Environmental and Regulations

# 11 Figure 2.2.1-1 O-DU/O-CU Functional Block Diagram

# 6 Table 2.2.2-1 Processor Feature List
Item Name Description # of Cores 42 # of Threads 84 Base Frequency 2.30GHZ Max Turbo Frequency 2.90GHz Cache 168MB TDP 235W Max Memory Size (dependent on memory type) 512GB Memory Types DDR5 RDIMM Max # of Memory Channels 4

# 8 2.2.2.1.1 Interfaces
These are the required interface specification for the main board.

# 10 2.2.2.1.1.1 Memory Channel Interfaces
The system memory capacity, type and related information is described in the following table.

# 12 Table 2.2.2-2 Memory Channel Feature List
Item Name Description Memory Types DDR5 # of Memory Channels 4 ECC RDIMM\LRDIMM Up to 512GB 3DS ECCRDIMM Not supported Memory Speed up to 6400MT/s DIMM Sizes 16GB, 32GB, 48GB, 96GB, 128GB Memory Voltage 1.1 V

# 14 2.2.2.1.1.2 PCIe
PCIe Gen 5 is supported by the processor. There is a total of 48 PCIe lanes available on the motherboard which are allocated as per Figure 2.2.1-1 O-DU/O-CU Functional Block Diagram. This example has 2 x PCIe Gen5 x 16 slots. Each 16-lane bi-directional PCIe expansion slot has a total of 128GB/s of available bandwidth. There is also 1 PCIe 4.0 x8 via MCIO connector on the motherboard for further expansion options.

# 5 2.2.2.2 Hardware Accelerator (if required by design)

# 6 2.2.2.2.1 Hardware Accelerator
Hardware accelerators can be used in O-DU to offload computationally intensive functions and to optimize the performance under varying traffic and loading conditions. While the hardware acceleration functional requirements and implementation are system designer’s choice; the O-DU is required to meet the minimum system performance requirements under various loading conditions and deployment scenarios. In most cases, a Field Programmable Gate Array (FPGA) or Application Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC) based PCIe card can be used to optimize the system performance. FPGA(s) and ASIC(s) may be part of a Network

# 13 Interface Controller (NIC) that further provides connectivity services.

# 14 2.2.2.2.2 Accelerator Design 1
The O-DU system is typically implemented using a multi-core processor and one or more hardware accelerators. Parts of O-DU protocol stack can be implemented in software running on the multi-core processors and the computationally intensive L1 and L2 functions can be offloaded to an FPGA-based hardware accelerator. This accelerator comprises two FPGAs for L1 offload and fronthaul connectivity in lookaside mode. The accelerator hardware and firmware features are listed in Table 2.2.2-3 and Table 2.2.2-

# 20 4.

# 21 Table 2.2.2-3 Accelerator Hardware Features
FPGA1 FPGA2 System Logic cells - 930K System Logic cells - 1,143K CLB LUT - 425K CLB LUT - 523K SoC Resources SDFEC -8 CLB Flip-Flops -1,045K DSP Slices - 4,272 DSP Slices - 1,968 BRAM - 38.0Mb BRAM - 34.6Mb URAM - 22.5Mb URAM - 36.0Mb Form Factor FHHL PCIe Form Factor PCIe Interface Gen 3 x16 with Bifurcation FPGA1 FPGA2 Total Capacity 4 GB in PL, upgradeable Total Capacity 4 GB in PL, upgradeable On Board Memory to 8GB to 8GB Total Capacity 2 GB in PS, upgradeable Total Capacity 2 GB in PS, upgradeable to 4GB to 4GB 2xSFP28 optical interfaces to FPGA2 Network Interface(s) (User Configurable, includes 10/25 Ethernet) Other External Interface(s) Micro USB for JTAG support (FPGA programming and debug) and access to BMC GUI for monitoring the basic board parameters, monitoring temperature alerts, Graphical User interface firmware upgrades for BMC Board Management Telemetry, Security, Remote Upgrade Controller Clocking O-RAN C1, C2, C3, C4 Fronthaul eCPRI, RoE IEEE1914.3, O-RAN WG4 FH GPS SMA for 1 PPS (In/Out) Operating Temperature NEBS Compliant Power < 75 W Low-Jitter, configurable clock ranging from10MHz to 750MHz Clocking Options PPS input and output with assembly option for OCXO and TCXO

# X 8
(L o r A R

# C P
a n d P MUa r
- b
t ia a s l L e d ) [B ifuP rc a

# C Ie
te G de ] P n 3 Cx Ie In

# F P

# F P
n n

# G A fflo

# G A e c t
1a d ) Inter-Chip Interface 100G Ethernet 2iv it y ) F ro E n th a u l In te

# P R I 1

# 4 2.2.2.2.3 Accelerator Design 2
The O-DU system is typically implemented using a multi-core processor (CPU) and one or more hardware accelerators. Parts of O-DU protocol stack can be implemented in software running on the multi-core processors and the computationally intensive L1 and L2 functions can be offloaded to an FPGA-based hardware accelerator. This accelerator comprises a single FPGA for L1 offload in lookaside mode. The accelerator hardware and firmware features are listed in Table 2.2.2-5 and Table 2.2.2-6.

# 10 Table 2.2.2-5 Accelerator Hardware Features
System Logic cells - 930K CLB LUT - 425K SDFEC -8 SoC Resources DSP Slices - 4,272 BRAM - 38.0Mb URAM - 22.5Mb Form Factor HHHL PCIe Form Factor PCIe Interface Gen 3 x16 (Gen4 x8) Total Capacity 4 GB in PL, upgradeable to 8GB On Board Memory Total Capacity 2 GB in PS, upgradeable to 4GB Other External Interface(s) Micro USB for JTAG support (FPGA programming and debug) and access to BMC GUI for monitoring the basic board parameters, monitoring temperature alerts, Graphical User interface firmware upgrades for BMC Board Management Telemetry, Security, Remote Upgrade Controller Operating Temperature NEBS Compliant Power < 35 W

# 6 CPU.
E th Fe 1 In rn e te rfa c e t (1 0 / 2 5 G )

# X 8
(L o a r n

# A R

# C P
d P MUa r
- b
tia a s l L e d )

# P C Ie

# P C Ie
G e n 3 Inx

# 0 G
ee n 4 x 8 (L 1 F O

# P G A fflo a d )

# 8 Figure 2.2.2-2 Single-chip FPGA-based Hardware Acceleration in O-DU

# 10 2.2.2.2.4 Accelerator Design 3
This design includes an Embedded NIC Inline Accelerator (ENIAC) with an ASIC that can provide NIC functions. One option supports a high-capacity O-DU using multiple PCIe cards in standard racks and aligns with the FAPI interface to maximize software reuse. The second option supports a high-capacity O-DU using an Ethernet-based backplane interconnect and aligns with the nFAPI interface to maximize software reuse. ENIAC unloads L1 from the host, allowing it to focus on L2. a. Accelerator Requirements Hardware and firmware requirements for this accelerator design are given in Table 2.2.2-7 and

# 3 Table 2.2.2-8, respectively.

# 4 Table 2.2.2-7 Accelerator Hardware Feature List
Item Name Description PCIe (Interface with digital processing Gen4 x16 (and lower) unit) Form factor FHHL Connectivity QSFP28/SFP NIC Device 200Gb xHAUL for FH, BH & MH traffic shaping. DDR Main TBD GB DDR4 Flash (FPGA images) >=1 Gbit BMC Telemetry, Security, remote upgrade Clocking For O-RAN C1, C2, C3 & C4 Fronthaul eCPRI, RoE IEEE1914.3, O-RAN WG4 GPS SMA for 1 PPS & 10MHz (in/out) Operating Temperature (ambient) NEBS Compliant Power <75W Clock Accuracy Low-Jitter, configurable clock ranging from 10MHz to 750MHz. Option for OCXO (TCXO as standard)

# 7 Table 2.2.2-8 Accelerator Firmware Feature List
Item Name Description Remote system upgrade Securely upgradable image Queuing Command queuing at FAPI interface Rel15 compliant LDPC Acceleration In-line compression/decompression for Mu-Law, block-floating point, Fronthaul Compression and quantization according to the O-RAN WG4 specification. Support for:
- Flashing upgrade
Open programmable acceleration • Firmware version reporting environment • PCIe diagnostics
- Ethernet diagnostics
- Temperature and voltage telemetry information.
b. Accelerator Design Figure 2.2.2-3 illustrates Accelerator Design 3 with integrated NIC and PCIe connectivity to L2. Figure 2.2.2-4 illustrates Accelerator Design 3 with integrated NIC and Ethernet connectivity to L2. P r o T L c e im 2s s in in g g P

# F A P I o

# C Ie 4 x

# P P S

# 6 + L a y e
e d d e d N y A c r m M IC w c e l IM it h e r O e a C t o

# P R
r I e C O P G
- R A N

# R I F H
b p s + S y n Q E c E
- 2

# S F
t h x P e r n e t

# 6 Figure 2.2.2-3 Accelerator Design 3 using PCIe
L2 Processing nFAPI on Ethernet L1 Upper Phy Accelerator 16+ Layers mMIMO O-RAN 7-2x Embedded NIC with eCPRI eCPRI FH QSFP28

# 200 Gbps+ Ethernet
Timing PPS SyncE

# 9 10 MHz

# 10 Figure 2.2.2-4 Accelerator Design 3 using Ethernet

# 6 Summary of timing-related software features supported:
- PTP distribution compliant to G.8272

# 8 • ITU-T specifications for SyncE:
o Definitions: ITU-T G.8260 o Architecture: ITU-T G.8261 o SSM transport channel and format: ITU-T G.8264 o Clock specifications: ITU-T G.8262 (EEC) o Functional model and SSM processing: ITU-T G.781
- IEEE 1588 Telecom Grand Master (T-TGM) using G8275.1 profile.
- T-GM conversion to Telecom Boundary Clock (T-TBC) if GNSS signal is lost.
- Telecom Boundary Clock (T-TBC) per ITU-T G.8273.2.
- Min 4-hour holdover/drift of max 0.65 µsec, temperature change of +5°C or -5°C after Holdover starts.
- Compliant with input and output jitter and wander requirements specified in ITU-T G.8262 (for EEC).
- Alternate BMCA specified in G.8275.1.

# 20 2.2.4 External Interface Ports
The following table shows the external ports or slots that the system provided. In addition to a single 1GbE management port, the SoC provides 8 additional 25G SFP Ethernet ports. In this configuration the system has 200Gbps of aggregated Ethernet bandwidth. A further 8 x 25G SFP Ethernet ports can be installed via PCIe expansion slot for a total of 16 x 25G or 400Gbps aggregated Ethernet bandwidth.

# 25 Table 2.2.4-1 External Port List
Port Name Feature Description Ethernet 1 x GbE BMC management port x 25G SFP PCIe 2 x PCIe 5.0 x16 FHFL slots

# 3 2.2.6 Mechanical

# 4 2.2.6.1 Mother Board
The mechanical layout of the mother board is detailed in Figure 2.2.6-1 Mother Board Layout Diagram and shows the location of major components and interface ports.

# 8 Figure 2.2.6-1 Mother Board Layout Diagram

# 6 Figure 2.2.6-2 Chassis Mechanical Diagram

# 8 2.2.6.3 Cooling
The system is supplied with 6 x 40x56mm PWM fans for cooling.

# 10 2.2.7 Power Unit
In a fully loaded system with two PCIe slots populated, the system power consumption should be less than 400W. The total system power shall be kept at less than 80% of the power supply capacity.

# 13 2.2.7.1 Power Supply
Power is provided by dual redundant 600W DC 48V High-Efficiency power supplies w/PMBus 1.2. The power support input and output power rails are listed below.

# 4 2.2.8 Thermal
Active cooling with up to 6 fans is integrated in the chassis. The hardware acceleration cards described in Section 2.2.2.2 use passive cooling and a custom heatsink and are equipped with temperature sensors. It is designed to operate in temperatures ranging from -5°C to

# 8 +55°C.

# 9 2.2.9 Environmental and Regulations
The O-DU hardware system is RoHS Compliant. The power supply unit is EMC FCC/CISPR Class B compliant. Table 2.2.9-1 lists the environmental related features and parameters.

# 12 Table 2.2.9-1 Environmental Features
Item Name Description Operating Temperature -5°C to +55°C Non-operating Temperature -40°C to 70°C Operating Relative Humidity 8% to 90% (non-condensing) Non-operating Relative Humidity 5% to 95% (non-condensing) The hardware accelerator described in Section 2.2.2.2 is designed to operate in indoor environments and in temperatures ranging from -5°C to +55°C.

## 2.3 O- RU Hardware Reference Design
This chapter defines the hardware reference design for the Outdoor Macrocell O-RU. This is defined by a 7- 2 interface to the O-DU on one side and up to 64T64R on the antenna port (more details on the mMIMO O- RU reference designs are given in Section 2.5). No upper limit is defined to the output power of Wide 7-2x Range BS according to 3GPP TS38.104-Section 6.2 [3], the external power is supplied by either AC or a standard DC -48V telecom source.

# O - R A N

# G N S S
(o p tio n a Lo c a l tim in g fro m G N S S o e q u iv a le n t

# O - R U 7
OP c e Lo c a l tim in g fro m C D R l) r -2
- R
r o cU Aen N F H s s in it g P T P r im o D ig it a o c e s s U n it in g U w e r U l in n n g it it P r o cU Ren F s sit in g TA on / Ft e r on mn a

# 9 Figure 2.3.1-1 O-RU High-Level Functional Block Diagram

# 10 2.3.2 O-RU Hardware Components
Figure 2.3.2-1 shows the high-level block details of O-RU Hardware implementation example. The description of each block from left to right is given below. O-RU communicates with O-DU through O-RAN Fronthaul interface and the control/data packets are 7-2x 7-2x processed by O-RAN Fronthaul unit with the help of CUS plane processing block. Subsequently the packets are processed by Low-PHY functional blocks such as encoding, scrambling, modulation, layer mapping, precoding, beamforming, and resource element mapping in downlink. The reverse operation is done during the uplink process. The output of the Low-PHY block is fed to digital processing unit through packet interface. Here the frequency conversion in digital domain i.e., digital up conversion (DUC) in DL and digital down conversion (DDC) in UL are done. Furthermore, DPD and CFR algorithms are implemented in digital processing unit to enhance the power amplifier efficiency by reducing the PAPR/ACLR in RF front end. The output of digital processing unit is fed to RF processing unit through digital interface. The digital signals converted to analog in DL and vice versa in UL with the help of DAC and ADC functional blocks in Transceiver unit, respectively. Signals are further amplified with the help of functional blocks like PA in DL and LNA in UL in analog RF front end unit. The output of the amplifier is fed to a cavity filter to suppress the unwanted signals in DL and is done before amplification in the case of UL operation i.e., receive operation. The TDD switch is used to switch the operation between DL and UL, i.e., transmit and receive operations. The output of the cavity filter i.e., the O-RU is fed to antenna unit and then transmitted over the air. Three processing units such as FH, Digital, and RF powered up using the power unit and gets synchronized with the help of timing/synchronization block. In the case of beamforming scenario, antenna calibration is implemented using antenna calibration processing block. This coordinates with Low-PHY processing unit and calibration switch (Cal switch) and processes the signals coming from and going to the antenna calibration port, to compensate for the amplitude and phase offsets existing in each RF chain. Other implementations are also possible by rearranging the functional blocks of O-RAN FH, Digital processing, and

# 14 RF processing units.
FH

# O - R

# O -R A N
in te rfa ce U

# 7 .2 x

# O -R A N Fro n th
e C P R I C -P la n e , S-P la n e , a n d M -P la n e P ro ce ssin g a u l P ro ce ssin g U n it Lo w -P h y P ro ce ssin g A n te n n a C alib ratio n P ro ce ssin g P a cke t In te rfa ce T D im igita l P ro ce ssin U n it

# D D C D U C

# D P D C FR
in g /Sy n c. U n it g D igita l In te rfa ce P o

# R F P ro ce ssin g U
T ra n sce ive r

# A D C D A C
CAL Sw itch w e r U n it n it

# P A +LN A &

# P A +LN A & T D D Sw itch

# P A +LN A & T D D Sw itch T D D Sw itch
C alib ratio P o rt C avity C avity Filte r Filte r C avity Filte r n A n te n n a

# 16 Figure 2.3.2-1 O-RU Architecture Example Implementation 1
To O-DU C lo ck D ig ita P o Rx enable l P ro c e ss in g Network SPI Clock S y n c h ro w e r U n it Rx enable U n it Clean Clock n iz e r SERDES SPI Cal Control T ra n T ra n TRx Reference ss cece iviv ee rr Rx0 Tx0 ORx0 ORx1 Tx1 Rx1 Rx2 Tx2 ORx2 ORx3 Tx3 Rx3 bypass enable RFFE enable PA PA enable RFFE bypass enable

# R F P ro c e ssin g U
bypass enable RFFE PA enable enable PA RFFE Cal bypass enable Sw itch Box* *Calibration transceiver can be a separate unit or one of the m ain transceiver channels. N ot all O -RU s w ill require antenna calibration. n it C a P l P o o rt A rt Figure 2.3.2-2 4T4R General Block Diagram with full RF front end Figure 2.3.2-2 and Figure 2.3.2-3 shows an example of an O-RU design for 4T4R and 8T8R, respectively. In subsequent sub-sections, we present detailed hardware components the O-RAN Processing Unit and Digital Processing Unit, RF processing unit, Power unit and Clock/Synchronization units. Rx Rx enable enable bypass enable Rx0 RFFE Tx0 enable PA ORx0 To O-DU SERDES Digital Processing Unit ORx1 Co C S n a P t l I rol Tx1 PA enable RFFE Network SPI Clean Rx1 Clock Clock bypass enable Clock Transceiver Port A bypass enable RFFE Rx2 PA Tx2 enable Synchronizer TRx ORx2 Reference ORx3 enable PA RFFE Tx3 bypass enable Power Unit Rx3 Transceiver RF Processing Unit bypass enable Rx4 RFFE Tx4 enable PA ORx4 ORx5 Tx5 PA enable RFFE Rx5 bypass enable Transceiver Port A bypass enable RFFE Rx6 PA Tx6 enable TRx ORx6 Reference ORx7 enable PA RFFE Tx7 Cal Switch bypass enable Box* Rx7 *Calibration transceiver can be a separate unit or one of the main transceiver channels. Not all O-RUs will require antenna calibration. Cal Port Figure 2.3.2-3 8T8R General Block Diagram with RF front end

# 4 2.3.2.2 Digital Processing Unit
The Digital Processing Unit (DPU) of the O-RU performs synchronization, DDC, DUC, CFR, and DPD. The DPU can be implemented as a FPGA or ASIC. The following block diagrams describe the digital processing unit as per example implementation in Figure

# 8 2.3.2-4 and Figure 2.3.2-5.

# 9 Other implementations are possible.
Figure 2.3.2-4 Digital Processing Unit Block Diagram (L1 Processing + Beamforming)

# 4 2.3.2.2.1.1 FPGA Requirements
Table 2.3.2-1 shows the general interfaces required for an FPGA based design based on Figure 2.3.2-4 and

# 6 Figure 2.3.2-5.

# 8 Table 2.3.2-1 FPGA Interface Requirements
Item Name Description eCPRI Port High speed bi-directional interface transporting data and control information. Total payload will be determined by the antennas/layers served, bandwidth supported, bit precision, subcarrier spacing, etc. It is typically served by one or more QSFP+ or SFP28 connectors depending on the payload. SERDES Up to 16 high speed JESD204B/C serial interface lanes between FPGA fabric and transceiver depending on transceiver configuration selected. Boot Clock Clock for any uC or fabric functions required immediately at power on Sysref JESD204B/C synchronization signal DevCLK JESD204B/C device clock ARM Clock Clock for the ARM processor Memory Clock Memory clock OAM Port Control interface used for maintenance DDR Interface for external DDR memory

# 9 2.3.2.2.1.2 FPGA Design
Table 2.3.2-2 shows the general blocks required for the design. The core elements implemented in this design are required to be sized to support the requirements shown in the OMAC-HAR [6] document. Specifically, the DPU should support up to 200 MHz of occupied BW with up to two 100 MHz component carriers. In addition to signal processing, the DPU should support C, U, S and M plane handling. Major processing blocks in the DPU are shown in Table 2.3.2-2.

# 3 2.3.2.3 RF Processing Unit
The RF Processing Unit of O-RU includes the transceiver block, up/down converters, power amplifiers (PAs), low noise amplifiers (LNAs), Tx/Rx filters. All conversions between analog and digital domain (e.g., (RF sampling, frequency conversion using mixing of RF, IF and LO in up and down conversion) are performed within the transceiver block. Note that physical and logical partitioning within the RF processing unit need not occur at any specific boundary.

# 9 2.3.2.3.1 Transceiver Reference Design
For the O-RU the sampling function and frequency conversion function is performed by transceiver. The purpose of the transceiver is to translate the RF signal to digital as early as possible in the signal chain and to reduce the data rate as low as possible to save power. The Transceiver is to convert between high-speed baseband data and a low-level RF for both transmit and receive signal chain. The transceiver may be responsible for orchestration of external gain control elements in both the receive and transmit paths. Other radio functions may need to be controlled by the DPU where they need to be controlled fast and synchronized with the TDD frame structure. Such elements include the transmit / receive switch, PA and

# 17 LNA enable.

# 18 2.3.2.3.1.1 Hardware Specifications

# 19 2.3.2.3.1.1.1 Interface
The following table shows the detail of the RF Processing Unit Interface Specifications:

# 3 Table 2.3.2-4 JESD204B/C Serial Data Rates
Bandwidth JESD204B JESD204C JESD204B JESD204C 4T4R 8T8R 4.9152 4.05504 9.8304 8.11008 9.8304 8.11008 19.6608 16.22016 100 19.6608 16.22016 39.3216 32.44032 200 39.3216 32.44032 78.6432 68.88064

# 4 2.3.2.3.1.1.2 Algorithm
The transceiver is required to provide appropriate algorithms to sustain RF operation including but not limited to Rx AGC, Tx Power control, DPD and CFR.

# 4 2.3.2.3.1.1.4 Power Dissipation
Total dissipation of transceiver IC for TRx should be less than 6 W for 4T4R.

# 6 2.3.2.3.1.1.5 RF Specifications

# 7 Table 2.3.2-5 Transceiver RF Specifications
Parameter Symbol Min Typ Max Unit Test Condition/Comment Transmitters Centre Frequency 650 6000 MHz Transmitter Synthesis

# 450 MHz
Bandwidth Transmitter Large

# 200 MHz
Signal Bandwidth Transmitter Signal to noise ratio (SNR) maintained Attenuator Power 0 32 dB for attenuation between 0 and 20 dB Control Range Transmitter Attenuation Power 0.05 dB 20 MHz LTE/NR at -12 dBFS Control Resolution Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio -66 dB 75 MHz <f≤2800 MHz (ACLR) 0 dB attenuation; in band noise falls 1 In Band Noise Floor -154.5 dBm/Hz dB for each dB of attenuation for attenuation between 0 dB and 20 dB Out of Band Noise -153 dBm/Hz 600 MHz < f ≤ 3000 MHz Floor Maximum Output 0 dB attenuation; 3 × bandwidth/2 dBm Power offset Third Order Output Intermodulation OIP3 27 dBm 600 MHz < f ≤ 3000 MHz Intercept Point Error Vector Magnitude (3GPP EVM Test Signals)

# 1900 MHz LO 0.6 % 50 kHz RF PLL loop bandwidth

# 3800 MHz LO 0.53 % 300 kHz RF PLL loop bandwidth
Parameter Symbol Min Typ Max Unit Test Condition/Comment Observation ORx Receivers Center Frequency 450 6000 MHz IIP3 improves dB for dB for the first 18 dB of gain attenuation; QEC Gain Range 30 dB performance optimized for 0 dB to 6 dB of attenuation only. For attenuation steps from 0 dB to 6 Analog Gain Step 0.5 dB dB Receiver Bandwidth 450 MHz Maximum Usable 0 dB attenuation; increases dB for dB Input Level PHIGH -11 dBm with attenuation. -58.7 dBFS 450 MHz Integration bandwidth Integrated Noise -57.5 dBFS 491.52 MHz Integration bandwidth Third Order Input Intermodulation IIP3 Intercept Point Maximum observation receiver gain; Narrow Band test condition: PHIGH-11 dB/tone

# 1900 MHz 15 dBm

# 2600 MHz 16.5 dBm

# 3800 MHz 18 dBm
IM3 products>130 MHz at baseband; Wide Band test condition: PHIGH - 11 dB/tone;

## 491.52 MSPS

# 1900 MHz 13 dBm

# 2600 MHz 11 dBm

# 3800 MHz 13 dBm
Third Order Intermodulation IM3 -70 dBc 600 MHz < f ≤ 3000 MHz Product Non IMx related spurs, does not Spurious Free Dynamic Range SFDR 64 dB include HDx; (PHIGH − 11) dB input signal Harmonic Distortion (PHIGH − 11) dB input signal Second Order -80 dBc In band HD falls within ±100 MHz Harmonic Distortion HD2 Product -73 dBc Out of band HD falls within ±225 MHz -70 dBc In band HD falls within ±100 MHz Third Order Harmonic HD3 Distortion Product -65 dBc Out of band HD falls within ±225 MHz Parameter Symbol Min Typ Max Unit Test Condition/Comment Receivers Center Frequency 6000 MHz dB Attenuator steps from 0 dB to 6 dB Analog Gain Step dB Attenuator steps from 6 dB to 30 dB Receiver bandwidth 200 MHz 0 dB attenuation; increase dB for dB Maximum Usable with attenuation; continuous wave = Input Level PHIGH -11 dBm

# 1800 MHz; corresponds to -1 dBFS at ADC 75 MHz <f≤3000 MHz
0 dB attenuation at receiver port 600 Noise Figure NF 12 dB MHz <f≤3000 MHz Input Third Order IIP3 Intercept Point Difference Product IIP3, d Two (PHIGH − 9) dB tones near band edge

# 2600 MHz
dBm (Wideband)

# 2600 MHz (Midband) 21 dBm
Sum Product IIP3, s Two (PHIGH − 9) dB tones, at bandwidth/6 offset from the LO

# 2600 MHz
dBm (Wideband) (PHIGH − 6) dB continuous wave tone HD3 HD3 -66 dBc at bandwidth/6 offset from the LO 600 MHz < f ≤ 4800 MHz

# 3 2.3.2.4 Interface Requirements
Table 2.3.2-6 shows the general interfaces required for the O-RAN Processing Unit and Digital Processing

# 5 Unit based on Figure 2.3.2-4 and Figure 2.3.2-5.

# 11 Table 2.3.2-6 Interface Requirements
Item Name Description eCPRI Port High speed bi-directional interface transporting data and control information. Total payload will be determined by the antennas/layers served, bandwidth supported, bit precision, subcarrier spacing, etc. It is served by 4 SFP28 connectors. Actual number of SFP28 transceivers used will depend on RU configuration parameters (e.g., BFP compression bit-width, SRS configuration, etc). SERDES A number of serial interface lanes between DPU fabric and transceiver depending on transceiver configuration selected. For example, this could be a 16 lanes high speed JESD204B/C, or some other proprietary interface. Boot Clock Clock for any uC or fabric functions required immediately at power on DDR Interface for external DDR memory System Clock System clock Clk / PPS out SyncE / PTP terminated on the FPGA / ASIC

# 4 2.3.2.4.2 Power Amplifier (PA) Reference Design

# 5 2.3.2.4.2.1 Hardware Specifications

# 6 2.3.2.4.2.1.1 Interface

# 7 Table 2.3.2-8 Power Amplifier Interface Specifications
Item Name Description RF Enable The enable input should be compatible with 1.8V logic and tolerate 3.3V as required. A logic high enables the PA. A logic low disables the device and places it in a minimum dissipation mode. RF Output RF outputs support 50-ohm single ended to properly interface to a directional coupler, isolator, switch, or antenna. RF Input RF inputs should support 50-ohm, single ended match to the transceiver output or preamp.

# 8 2.3.2.4.2.1.2 Power Specifications
RF output power required is nominally 10 W (40 dBm). For the whole Tx chain including pre-driver amplifier and driver Amplifier this Tx chain efficiency should be more than 33 % since driver and pre-driver work on less Power O/P and are less efficient.

# 12 2.3.2.4.2.1.3 RF Specifications
The PA and driver should have enough gain to boost the transceiver output to the rated power level. The output power should be at least 10W (40 dBm) including the loss of the circulator and antenna filter. The ACLR with DPD and CFR should be better than 47dBc according to the related 3GPP test models.

# R F e n
V d d V b ia s

# R F o u t

# 8 Figure 2.3.2-7 Power Amplifier Reference Design

# 3 Table 2.3.2-10 LNA Interfaces
Item Name Description Enable The enable input should be compatible with 1.8V logic and tolerate 3.3V as required. A logic high enables the LNA. A logic low disables the device and places it in a minimum dissipation mode. LNA Bypass The LNA Bypass skips the second stage LNA effectively reducing the overall gain. This would be selected when the input signal compromises the linearity of the amplifier. RF Out RF outputs support 50-ohm single ended to properly interface to the RF filtering and Rx input port of transceiver. TR Switch The TR switch is used to shunt any reflected RF power that reaches the LNA to a shunt load during the transmit period. RF Input RF inputs should support 50-ohm, single ended match to circulator. Termination This RF output port shunts any reflected transmit power to an appropriate load during the Transmit period to protect the input of the LNA.

# 5 2.3.2.4.3.1.2 Power Specifications

# 6 DC power per channel should not exceed 0.5W.

# 7 2.3.2.4.3.1.3 RF Performance Specifications
The following table shows the LNA RF specification for O-RU.

# 9 Table 2.3.2-11 LNA RF Specifications
Item Name Band 26 Band 66 Band 48 Gain (High/Low) 45/21 dB 37/17 dB 28/11 dB NF (High/Low) 0.7/0.7 dB 0.5/0.5 dB 1.1/1.1 dB OIP3 (High/Low) 35/33 dBm 35/32 dBm 36/30 dBm OP1dB (High/Low) 21/20 dBm 20/17.5 dBm 19/14dBm TR Switch Time na na 290 nsec Considering RF output power required is nominally 10W (40 dBm).

# 12 2.3.2.4.3.2 Hardware Design
Figure 2.3.2-8 shows the configuration for a dual-stage LNA. The RF inputs and outputs should be properly matched to optimize the noise performance and flatness of the amplifier. The input switch is used to forward any reflected transmit energy to an external load during the transmit period to protect the LNA from damage. The DC supply voltage, VCC, should be properly filtered to prevent power supply noise from entering the LNA and reducing performance. VCC TR RFout RFin Terminationext

# 4 2.3.2.4.4 Circulator Reference Design
For TDD use, the Tx and Rx links work in time duplex. To properly couple the Tx energy to the antenna and the Rx signal to the LNA input, a circulator is used to perform this function given the potentially high RF power being processed through this device. The circulator can be configured as a clockwise or counterclockwise device depending on the layout details.

# 9 2.3.2.4.4.1 Hardware Specifications

# 10 2.3.2.4.4.1.1 Interface
The circulator includes 3 ports that can function as input or output. If the device is labelled clockwise, then for each input, its nominal output is the next pin rotating right around the device. If it is counterclockwise, the nominal output is the next pin rotating to the left around the device.

# 14 2.3.2.4.4.1.2 RF Specifications
The following Table 2.3.2-12 details the Circulator Specifications for O-RU.

# 16 Table 2.3.2-12 Circulator Specifications
Item Name Band 26 Band 66 Band 48 Rotation Clockwise/Anti Clockwise Clockwise/Anti Clockwise Clockwise/Anti Clockwise Average Power 15 W 15 W 15 W Peak Power 90 W 90 W 90 W Impedance 50 Ω 50 Ω 50 Ω Insertion Loss ≤0.3 dB ≤0.3 dB ≤0.4 dB Isolation >20dB >20dB >20dB Return Loss >20dB >20dB >20dB

# 18 2.3.2.4.4.2 Hardware Design
The example on the left in Figure 2.3.2-9 is a clockwise oriented device. The RF input enters pin 1 and exits pin 2. Pin 2 can also be used as an input and its output is pin 3. Finally pin 3 can also function as an input with pin 1 being the output. The device on the right is counterclockwise oriented and the signal flow is in the opposite direction.

# 4 Figure 2.3.2-9 Circulator Reference Design

# 6 2.3.2.4.5 Antenna / Phased Array Reference Design
The antenna is a transducer, and it is used to convert electrical signal to the Electromagnetic waves during the transmit mode and vice versa in the reception mode. Based on the radiation pattern characteristics of the antenna, it is broadly classified as omni-directional and directional antennas and examples of such antennas are listed below for reference.

# 11 2.3.2.4.5.1 Hardware Specifications for Omnidirectional Antenna
The Table 2.3.2-13 below details the typical electrical omnidirectional antenna specifications for the O-RU.

# 13 Table 2.3.2-13 Omnidirectional Antenna Specifications
Frequency band n26 n66/n70 n48 Antenna Type Quasi-Omni Quasi-Omni Quasi-Omni VSWR (max) 1.5:1 1.5:1 1.5:1 Power capacity 75W per port, max 75W per port, max 35W per port, max Gain (avg) 5.0 dBi 7.5 dBi 6.0 dBi Beam width (vertical) 35º 27º 32º Polarization ±45º ±45º ±45º 3rd Order PIM, @2x43 dBm ≤-150 dBc ≤-150 dBc ≤-150 dBc Isolation (cross polarization) ≥25 dB ≥25 dB ≥25 dB

# 15 2.3.2.4.5.2 Hardware Design of Omnidirectional Antenna
One possible choice of the omnidirectional antenna is a cannister type with multiple ports including the 4 ports for the 4T4R radio. Conceptual design is shown in the following figure.

# 6 2.3.2.4.5.3 Hardware Specifications for Directional Antenna
The following table shows the typical electrical directional antenna specifications for the O-RU.

# 8 Table 2.3.2-14 Directional Antenna Specifications
Frequency band n71 n26 n66/n70 Antenna Type Directional 4T4R Directional 4T4R Directional 4T4R VSWR (max) 1.5:1 1.5:1 1.5:1 Power capacity 250W per port, max 250W per port, max 200W per port, max Gain (avg) 13.8 dBi 14.5 dBi 18.0 dBi Beam width (horizontal) 65º 65º 65º Beam width (vertical) 14º 12º 5º Polarization ±45º ±45º ±45º Variable Down Tilt 2-14 º 2-14 º 2-12 º 3rd Order PIM, @2x43 dBm ≤-150 dBc ≤-150 dBc ≤-150 dBc Isolation (cross polarization) ≥25 dB ≥25 dB ≥25 dB

# 10 2.3.2.4.5.4 Hardware Design of Directional Antenna
One possible choice of directional antennas are the radios mounted on the back of the antenna with 4 ports for the 4T4R radio on the back of the antenna just below each radio. Conceptual design is shown in the following figure. Figure 2.3.2-11 Mounting Arrangement Scenario 1 of 4T4R Radios back of the Directional

# 3 Antenna
Another possible choice of directional antennas are the radios located away from the antenna with ports for each of the 4T4R radios on the bottom cap of the antenna. Conceptual design is shown in the following figure. Figure 2.3.2-12 Mounting Arrangement Scenario 2 of 4T4R Radios back of the Directional

# 11 Antenna

# 6 2.3.2.5.1 Optional JESD204 Interfacing
O-RU solutions requiring chip to chip interfacing of high-speed time domain data may benefit from utilization of JEDEC defined standard JESD204 [12]. This interface is specified for chip-to-chip interfacing that provides fast, low latency and time aligned data. The benefit of such an interface is to enable an open standard that allows for devices from multiple vendors to seamlessly interface. From a logistical perspective JESD204 allows multiple devices to communicate over the same link in a multiplex fashion while preserving time alignment and providing deterministic latency. This makes JESD204 a good candidate interface for carrying the signals for multiple antennas, multiple component carriers including I and Q data. This allows for relative simplicity requiring only a few differential pairs along with a ‘device clock’ and ‘sysref’ signals to carry and synchronize all time aligned signals. Figure 2.3.2-13 provides an example of a typical configuration for a JESD204 configuration. The lines labelled ‘JESD for UL x2’ and ‘JESD for DL x2’ are the data bearing connections and consist of differential pairs. In this example, there are 2 differential pairs for the UL data (receiver path) and 2 differential pairs for the DL data (transmit path). These connections provide data using an embedded clock and synchronization with a transport layer coding used to ensure sufficient transitions that the embedded clock can be recovered on the receiving end. The second signal of is labelled ‘Device Clock’. The device clock provides the frequency reference to devices in the configuration. Within the scope of JESD204, this signal provides the reference for the interface. In practice, the Device Clock also provide the frequency reference to the individual devices and is usually a multiple of 30.72 MHz. JESD204 connected devices would use this reference for both the interface as well as other frequency services within the device such as sample clocks and other PLLs. The final signal is the ‘Sysref’ which enables deterministic latency in the system. Each interconnected device uses this signal in conjunction with ‘Device Clock’ to determine exactly when the sample edge should occur. There are different ways to configure and use ‘Sysref’ to achieve different goal. For more details on configuration, see [12]. JESD204 is an evolving standard. Although it has been around for a while, as process technology evolves and data needs grow, JESD has evolved to keep pace with throughput needs. The initial variation supported up to 3.125 Gbps. JESD204A brough speeds up to 6.25 Gbps. JESD204B brought throughput to

## 12.5 Gbps. Most recently JESD204C offers throughputs up to 32.45 Gbps. Each variety offers at least one
option for transport layer coding like 8B/10B as well as a range of other features including sub-channel coding which allows control channels to be passed along with the primary data. Currently most devices support JESD204B and JESD204C. As of this writing, JEDEC is underway defining the next phase of JESD204x which will further increase data rates as demanded by increasing bandwidth in wireless and other application.

# 3 Table 2.3.2-15 JESD204 Abridged Lexicon
Parameter Description

# M Number of converters/converter device (link)
NP (or N’) Total number of bits per sample

# S Samples transmitted/single converter/frame cycle

# F Octets/Frame

# K Number of frames per multi-frame
SC Sample Clock Rate

# L Number of lanes/converter device (link)
To better comprehend the JESD204 standard, understanding the lexicon is important. There are many parameters that can be used, but those in Table 2.3.2-15 provide the core definitions. Most of these are basic parameters related to common data converter characteristics and include the number of converters, number of bits and sample rate. The remaining parameters are related to the transport layer and physical implementation of the interface. Combined, the parameters in this lexicon help define the data throughput, number of lanes required as well as the framing of data onto the interfaces. Starting with the payload, it is determined by computing the serial data rate and adding the transport layer (i.e. 8B/10B, 64B/66B etc) to that as defined in the following equation:

# 14 𝑀×𝑁𝑃×𝑆𝐶×𝑇𝑟𝑎𝑛𝑠𝑝𝑜𝑟𝑡 𝐿𝑎𝑦𝑒𝑟 𝐶𝑜𝑑𝑖𝑛𝑔 = 𝑃𝑎𝑦𝑙𝑜𝑎𝑑 𝑅𝑎𝑡𝑒
This equation provides the total payload to be delivered between devices. This data is delivered over one or more lanes. If the payload exceeds the capacity of one lane, additional lanes are added to ensure that the throughput per lane matches the capability of the standard. As highlighted in preceding paragraphs, currently JESD204B supports up to 12.5 Gbps and JESD204C supports up to 32.45 Gbps but future evolutions will include higher lane capacity. Where the Payload Rate exceeds an individual lanes capacity, the total Payload Rate is divided by the lane capacity, currently 12.5 Gbps or 32.45 Gbps, to determine the approximate number of lanes required. The actual number is the next higher integer to ensure that the lane rate is less than the maximum specified or desired. As the standard continues to evolve, this same math will be used to determine the payload and number of lanes, L. 𝑃𝑎𝑦𝑙𝑜𝑎𝑑 𝑅𝑎𝑡𝑒

# 24 𝐿 = 𝐶𝑒𝑙𝑖𝑛𝑔( )
𝑀𝑎𝑥 𝐿𝑎𝑛𝑒 𝑅𝑎𝑡𝑒 The final important term is F, the number of octets per frame. In JESD204, an octet represents an encoded 8-bit word. Fundamentally, F defines the frame structure given the number of lanes and the specific payload to deliver. F is defined by the following equation and represents the number of octets per frame: 𝑀×𝑋×𝑁𝑃

# 28 𝐹 =
8×𝐿 Figure 2.3.2-13 provides an example 4T4R configuration supporting a typical 100 MHz waveform. The low PHY device processes complex (I & Q data) for each data path and thus there are a total of 8 data streams that must be moved between the digital chip and the data conversion. The bit precision of this data is sufficient to meet the noise requirements of the solution and could be 12 or more bits. For this example, 16- bits will be assumed. To support a 100 MHz bandwidth, a complex data rate of 122.88 MSPS will be used as indicated by Table 2.3.2-16 of [3]. T o R F F E A A A A D D D D D D D D A A A A C C C C C C C C D e v ic JE SD

# P H Y
JE SD

# P H Y
e C lo c k A

# J E
C lo c k S y n th e s is S y s r e f A S y

# J E S D f o r U L x 2

# S D f o r D L x 2
s r e f B D e v ic e D C lo c k B FE & Lo w PH Y O r Lo w P H Y F r o n t h a u l

# 6 Figure 2.3.2-13 Example 4T4R JESD204 Configuration
Using this information and the equations above and applying 8B10B transport layer coding, the total payload, number of lanes and octets per frame can be computed. Since this is a 4T4R application and each path is represented by a complex stream, ‘M’ equals 8. ‘NP’ is 16 bits. ‘SC’ equals 122.88 MSPS. Total data payload can be computed using the following equation: 𝑃𝑎𝑦𝑙𝑜𝑎𝑑 = 8×16×122.88 ×106× = 19.6608𝐺𝑏𝑝𝑠 Assuming the interface is based on JESD204B, then the maximum data rate for a single lane would be 12.5 Gbps. Therefore, we need to divide the data into two physical lanes of 9.8304 Gbps each. Hence in this example, ‘L’ equals 2.

## 19.6608 𝐺𝑏𝑝𝑠

# 15 𝐿 = 𝐶𝑒𝑖𝑙𝑖𝑛𝑔( ) =2

## 12.5 𝐺𝑏𝑝𝑠
Finally, ‘F’ the number of Octets/Frame is computed to be 8. 8×1×16

# 17 𝐹 = = 8
8×2 Using this information, the mapping of data can be determined by using online tools such as [13]. These tools describe how the converter data is mapped onto each lane by octet as shown in Figure 2.3.2-14. In this example on lane 0, the first octet conveyed are the most significant bits of converter 0. This is followed by the LSBs in the second octet. This is followed by converter 1, 2 and 3 on lane 0. In parallel, lane 1 provides the data for converters 5 through 7 with the most significant octet leading. In this figure, M#SO represents the logical converter where # identifies the specific converter.

# 7 Table 2.3.2-16 4T4R Example Data Mapping
More complicated examples are also supported as shown in Figure 2.3.2-14 where a 64T64R massive MIMO application is described. This configuration supports a 200 MHz iBW and thus requires a complex data rate of 245.76 MSPS. In this case, there are 64 transmit and 64 receive paths. Each of these requires a complex path to the low PHY / beam former device. Therefore ‘M’ equals 128. Each of these are represented by 16 bits. In this example, JESD204C is assumed and thus 64B/66B coding is used. Thus, the total throughput becomes: 𝑃𝑎𝑦𝑙𝑜𝑎𝑑 = 128×16×245.76 ×106× = 519.04512𝐺𝑏𝑝𝑠 L a n e s M M O S S c t e 0 [ 1 0 [ 1 t 0

# 5 :8

# 5 :8
] ] M M O c S S t e [ [ t :0 :0 ] ] M M O S S

# 4 ( L =
c t e t 2 0 [ 1 5 :8 ] 0 [ 1 5 :8 ]

# M 5
= c t

# S 0

# S 0

# 8 , F =
F r a m e t 3 [ 7 :0 ] [ 7 :0 ] e M M , S O

# 6 S
= 1 c t e 0 [ 1 0 [ 1 , N t 4

# 5 :8

# 5 :8
P ] ] = 1 6 O

# M 6
) c S S t e [ [ t :0 :0 ] ] M M O c t

# S 0

# S 0
e [ [ t 6

# D FE & Low PH
O r Low PH Y Y F r o n th a u l

# 6 𝐿 = 𝐶𝑒𝑖𝑙𝑖𝑛𝑔( )= 16

## 32.45 𝐺𝑏𝑝𝑠
Using the equation for ‘F’ determines the octets per frame to be 16 in this example. The frame structure as defined by JESD204 is shown in Figure 2.3.2-15. As with the previous example, the frame structure is little endian with lane 0 beginning with converter 0, lane 1 beginning with 8, lane 2 with 16 and so forth as shown.

# 10 Complete details on JESD204 can be found [12].
128×1×16

# 11 𝐹 = = 16
8×16

# Q S F P

# G P S / A u x o r
C a s c a d e C lo c k S y n t h e s iz e r

# X T A L
E t h e rn e t C lo c k E m b e d d e d C L K

# G P S / A u x C lo ck
C lo ck , S y n c & C o n tr o l C lo c k S o ft w a re S t a c k C lo C o ck C o n tro , S y n n tro l cl & S y n c h

# T C
r o n

# X O
iz e r D e v

# R F T R x

# C L K , S y s r e f

# 6 Figure 2.3.3-1 Clock and Synchronization Functional Block Diagram

# 7 2.3.3.1 Hardware Specifications

# 8 2.3.3.1.1 Interface

# 9 Table 2.3.3-1 Synchronization and Timing Interface Specifications
Item Name Description Clock Inputs Depending on the configuration, the following clock inputs may exist: QFSP, Ethernet, GPS, Cascaded unit clocks, Synchronized Clock. Clock Outputs Depending on functional requirements, the following clocks may be delivered: QFSP, Ethernet, DDR, CPU, RF Transceiver clock, Synchronizer reference. Clock Control SPI or I2C to control the clock synthesizer and synchronizer. Clock Sync Logic signal to phase align and time align the synchronizer with master. Crystal Reference One or more reference oscillators to provide required phase noise and short/long term stability.

# 11 2.3.3.1.2 Performance Specifications

# 12 See device synchronizer performance specifications in Table 2.3.3-2

# 5 2.3.3.1.3.1 Hardware Specifications

# 6 2.3.3.1.3.1.1 Interface

# 7 Table 2.3.3-2 Synchronizer Interface Specifications
Item Name Description REFA, REFAA differential or single ended reference pulse inputs. REFB, REFBB differential or single ended reference pulse inputs. Status and Control control core operation and report on state of the PLL. XOA, XOB complimentary reference inputs or reference crystal connections Output0 and Output0N & reference outputs to feed further synthesis, transceiver, or logic blocks. Output1 and Output1N

# 9 2.3.3.1.3.1.2 Performance Specifications

# 10 Table 2.3.3-3 Synchronizer Performance Specifications
Item Name Description Notes Hz Offset −77 dBc/Hz Device configuration: fOSC = 52 MHz

# 100 Hz Offset −93 dBc/Hz crystal, fREF = 30.72 MHz, fVCO =

## 2457.6 MHz, fOUT = 245.76 MHz,
kHz Offset −114 dBc/Hz DPLL BW = 50 Hz, internal zero delay kHz Offset −125 dBc/Hz operation 100 kHz Offset −130 dBc/Hz

# 10 MHz Offset −156 dBc/Hz

# 3 Figure 2.3.3-2 Synchronizer Block Diagram

# 5 2.3.3.1.4 Reference Synthesizer
The purpose of the clock synthesizer is to generate low jitter, high stability reference clocks as needed throughout the design.

# 8 2.3.3.1.4.1 Hardware Specifications

# 9 2.3.3.1.4.1.1 Interface

# 10 Table 2.3.3-4 Synthesizer Interface Specifications
Item Name Description Reference Clock(s) Input The clock inputs device should receive a stable reference from a crystal, network reference or other suitable source. More than one input is allowed that may be selected between as required by the system. Control Control of the transceiver is by way of 3 or 4 wire SPI or I2C functioning as a slave. Support for 1.8V control is required and tolerance of 3.3V is preferred. Typically, the clock devices will be part of an IEEE1588v2 protocol loop controlled by way of this control interface or other GPIO lines as required by the hardware implementation. Clock Outputs One or more clock outputs are required to drive the digital device and transceiver clock inputs. Each output should be independently programmable in frequency to suit the application. The outputs should nominally be differential to preserve clocking edge and to maximize tolerance of high common mode signals.

# 10 Hz Offset -90 dBc/Hz

# 100 Hz Offset −120 dBc/Hz
kHz Offset −140 dBc/Hz kHz Offset −151 dBc/Hz 100 kHz Offset −152 dBc/Hz

# 4 Figure 2.3.3-3 Synthesizer Block Diagram

# 6 Table 2.3.4-1 External Port List
Port Name Feature Description Fronthaul interface One or more 25Gbps optical interfaces including a primary link and optionally a second link for redundancy or daisy chain. Debug interface RJ45 for maintenance access. Power interface Two pin male panel mount connectors (x1) RF Interface 4.3-10+ IP67 connector (x4) [7]/M-LOC cluster/multiport RF connector [8]

# 8 2.3.4.2 Hardware Design for External Interfaces

# 9 2.3.4.2.1 Fronthaul Interface
The fronthaul interface to the OMAC is provided by an optical fiber or fibers connected to the chassis by way of a SFP or SFP+ cage connector. In addition, an IP67 connector seal should be selected to provide appropriate environmental protection.

# 14 Figure 2.3.4-1 SFP+ case and connector

# 15 2.3.4.2.2 Debug Interface
The local maintenance port or debug port is by way of a standard ethernet connector. The RJ45 Ethernet connector are standardized components and available from multiple vendors. The following figure describes the general form factor of one such RJ45 connector.

# 3 2.3.4.2.3 Power Interface
The standard power interface is defined by a 2-pin panel mount connector as shown in the following figure.

# 6 Figure 2.3.4-3 Power Interface

# 7 2.3.4.2.4 RF Interface
The standard RF interfaces are the 4.3-10+ Low PIM RF connector and the M-LOC cluster/multiport connector as shown in the following figure. 4m

# 5 .1

# 4 2.3.5 Mechanical
One such mechanical structure is shown in the following figure. The shell should provide appropriate environmental protection, RF shielding and passive thermal dissipation. Internally, thermal pads are used to contact local heat sources and transfer that heat to the frame which in turn dissipates the heat through bulk metal and fins used to increase the effective surface area. Other enclosures are possible. m m 330 mm

# 5 Figure 2.3.5-2 Mechanical Enclosure Top View

# 6 2.3.6 Power Unit
For the Outdoor Macrocell, the power solution of the O-RU is provided externally from a telco -48V supply. Internally, the telco supply is converted and distributed to devices using appropriate DC-DC and LDO converters. Optionally the unit can be powered by AC line power which is not shown here.

# 10 2.3.6.1 Hardware Specifications
The power unit is responsible for isolating and converting the telco supply to appropriate voltages for distribution to individual supply domains in the O-RU. The worst-case dissipation is outlined below. The RF front end is broken out separately since different deployment scenarios will require different frequencies and power levels resulting in significantly different total dissipation. Total Power is the sum of transceiver module section and RF front end module section.

# 3 Table 2.3.6-2 RF Front End Module Specifications
Module 4T4R (Watts) Notes PA 330-350 40W O/P at Antenna Port PA Drive Amp 30-35 2W O/P Power LNA 1.5 – 2.0 For 4 chains Others 10-13 Gain Block and Switch total device consumption 344.5 – 400 80% Duty Cycle O-RU RF Front End power 495 Total Power Consumption consumption

# 4 2.3.6.2 Hardware Design
The block diagram of the power unit is shown in Figure 2.3.6-1. T e lc
- 4 8
o S Vu p p ly C P o w o n n e e r cto r IsP M ooo lawd t eeu dr l e L o c a l S u G e n e r a (D C -D C & pt o

# L D
pr O l ys ) n

# 3 2.3.7 Thermal
Heat dissipation in the O-RU is widely done through passive cooling via three modes: conduction, convection, and radiation. These mechanisms are accomplished with the help of heat sink, heat pipes and vapor chamber etc. The transfer of heat though conduction can usually be described by Fourier’s law, which is stated q=(k/s)A.dT k is the thermal conductivity of the material, and has units of W/m·K, s = material thickness, A = heat transfer area, dT = temperature difference between inside and outside wall.

# 11 Table 2.3.7-1 Thermal Conductivity of common Metals [9]
Type of Material Thermal Conductivity (W/m,K) Diamond 2300 Pure Al 237 Hard Aluminum 4.5% Cu 315-317 Au 411-429 Iron 80 Tin 67 The heat sinks transfer heat to space by thermal convection and radiation. For thermal convection, it can be calculated by the Newton’s Equation: 𝑄 = 𝛼 𝐴∆𝑡 = 𝛼 𝐴(𝑡 −𝑡 ) 𝑑 𝑐 𝑐 𝜔 𝑓 where, 𝑄 is the convention heat (W),𝑡 is the surface temperature of object (K),𝑡 is the temperature of airflow (K), 𝑑 𝜔 𝑓 A is the surface area of the object involved in heat transfer (m2),∆𝑡 is the temperature difference between the surface temperature of object and airflow (K),𝛼 is convective heat transfer coefficient (W/m2.K). 𝑐

# 5 Table 2.3.7-2 Convective heat transfer coefficient [10]
Flow Type Heat transfer coefficients (W/m2. K) Forced convection; low speed flow of air over a surface 10 Forced convection; moderate speed flow of air over a surface 100 Forced convection; moderate speed crossflow of air over a cylinder 200 Forced convection; moderate flow of water in pipe 3000 For thermal radiation, it can be calculated by the following Equation:

# 8 𝑄 = 𝜀𝛿𝐴(𝑡4 −𝑡4)
𝑟 𝜔 𝑓 where, 𝑄 is the radiation heat (W),𝜀 is the thermal emissivity,𝛿 is the Stefan–Boltzmann constant, 𝑟 its value is 5.67032 x10−8 W/ (m−2.K− 4).From these Equations,we can see that the increase of surface area A and thermal emissivity 𝜀 will improve the heat dissipation. Different materials can have widely different emissivity values within the range of 0 to 1.00.

# 14 Table 2.3.7-3 Emissivity value of different materials [11]
Material Emissivity Value (ε) Aluminum: anodized 0.77 Aluminum: polished 0.05 Brass: highly polished 0.03 Brass: oxidized 0.61 Carbon: candle soot 0.95 Carbon: graphite, filed surface 0.98 Copper: polished 0.05 Copper: oxidized 0.65

# 3 Table 2.3.8-1 Environmental Features
Item Name Description Notes Operating Temperature -40°C to +55°C Cold and hot start Operating Relative Humidity 5% to 95% Atmospheric Pressure 70 to 106Kpa

## 2.4 Integrated O-DU & O-RU (gNB-DU) Reference Design
The integrated hardware consists of O-DU & O-RU in a single box. The integrated O-DU & O-RU is the white O-RU The integrated small cell (gNB-DU) shall support split option – 2 (F1 Interface) towards gNB-CU and . supports FAPI standard logical interface between Layer2 and Layer1 running on different HW options. Figure 2.3.8-1 Integrated O-DU & O-RU (gNB-DU) Reference Design

# 14 2.4.1 O-DU Portion of Integrated Reference Design
In this Integrated architecture, several functions are included such as DDR4, QSPI, 1G Ethernet, SFP, PCIe,

# 16 JTAG, UART, and EMMC.

# 6 Figure 2.4.1-1 Functional Block Diagram For O-DU portion

# 8 2.4.1.2 O-DU Hardware Components
[Intentionally left blank awaiting future contributions]

# 3 2.4.1.2.2.1 Accelerator Design 1

# 4 2.4.1.2.2.2 Accelerator Design 2

# 5 2.4.1.3 Synchronization and Timing

# 6 2.4.2 O-RU Portion of Integrated Reference Design
In this Integrated architecture the O-RU portion contains the Digital Processing Unit Processing Unit, including the Transceiver, RFFE and other RF components, Clock and Synchronization & Power Unit. Digital processing unit is connected to O-DU portion NPU through PCIe interface.

# 10 2.4.2.1 O-RU High-Level Functional Block Diagram
This is high level functional block diagram for O-RU portion in the Integrated architecture. It also highlights the internal/external interfaces that are required.

# 15 Figure 2.4.2-1 Functional Block Diagram for O-RU portion

# 3 2.4.2.2.1 Digital Processing Unit

# 4 2.4.2.2.2 RF Processing Unit

# 5 2.4.2.2.2.1 Transceiver Reference Design

# 6 2.4.2.2.2.2 Power Amplifier (PA) Reference Design

# 7 2.4.2.2.2.3 Low Noise Amplifier (LNA) Reference Design

# 8 2.4.2.2.2.4 RF Switch Reference Design

# 9 2.4.2.2.2.5 Antenna / Phased Array Reference Design
Phased array antenna reference design is shown in the Figure 2.4.2-2

# 12 Figure 2.4.2-2 Phased array antenna reference design

# 13 It has the following functional blocks:

# 14 1. Digital Front-end Block:
It is responsible for processing the baseband data and controlling the beams of the antenna. It has two basic functional blocks that are described below. a. FPGA/Baseband processor - To generate/apply the weights (Amplitude and phase) to the phased array antenna elements based on the beam characteristics. Also, it is responsible for scheduling the data/control symbols in each transceiver chain. b. DSP/Algorithm block: It works together with the FPGA to generate the weight matrix and map the same to the corresponding antenna element.

# 22 2. RF Front-end Block:
It has attenuator, amplifiers (PA in the Tx and LNA in the Rx chain), switches and duplexer (to switch between Tx/Rx chain or Downlink/Uplink)

# 3 3. Plurality of antenna elements:
Two or more antenna elements are there in the phased array antenna to attain the below desired beam characteristics upon application of the corresponding beam weights, which are estimated based on the

# 6 CSI/SRS measurements.
a. Beam splitting (Hard and Soft) - Twin beam, Quad beam etc... b. Beam steering c. Plurality of beams (Service beam (Sectoral) and multiple narrow beams) d. Beam refinement e. Generating null in the desired direction f. Tilting of the beams

# 14 2.4.2.2.3 Synchronization and Timing

# 15 2.4.3 External Interface Ports

# 16 2.4.4 O-DU/O-RU Firmware (if required by design)

# 17 2.4.5 Mechanical

# 18 2.4.6 Power Unit

# 19 2.4.7 Thermal

# 20 2.4.8 Environmental and Regulations

## 2.5 O- RU Massive MIMO Hardware Reference Design

### 2.5.1 O-RU 7-2x Massive MIMO High-Level Functional Block Diagram
The level of integration achieved on a SoC for different functional blocks can vary and that in turn can result in different O-RU architecture and the associated interconnects between the functional blocks. 7-2x These functional splits can be realized through three possible configurations of O-RU mMIMO 7-2x Architecture options and they are discussed in detail in the sections below. All configurations have the same three major functional blocks like O-RAN Fronthaul Processing Unit, Digital Processing Unit, and RF

# 14 Processing unit.
For any O-RU mMIMO Architecture option, the eCPRI frame that comes from O-DU is 7-2x 7-2x compressed/decompressed and processed by the O-RAN Fronthaul Processing Unit & Beamformer block. The Digital Processing Unit, which has a FPGA/ASIC based DFE and AFE modules, receives the packets/digital signals (depending on the architecture used) from O-RAN Fronthaul Processing Unit & Beamformer block and performs the functionalities such as compression/decompression (if applicable), Low-PHY (if applicable), DDC, DUC, CFR, DPD, ADC and DAC. All these three functional blocks can be part of a single SoC or can be split into multiple physical integrated circuits (IC) and connected with a digital or packet-based interface. The functional block labelled RF processing block consists of an optional frequency converter (mixer), Power Amplifier (PA)/ Low Noise Amplifier (LNA). The filter is the next functional block in the path and is needed for each of the N Tx/Rx paths to meet the emissions in the DL and provide the necessary selectivity for UL. The last functional block in the mMIMO RU system is the Antenna. Depending on the power level for each of the Tx chain in a mMIMO system, the filter could be integrated into the RF Section or could be integrated along with the antenna thus making it the AFU. A detailed description of the O-RAN Fronthaul Processing, Digital, and RF Processing blocks is discussed in Section 2.3.2. In a mMIMO O-RU, Tx/Rx reciprocity calibration is one of the important steps for optimal performance. Calibration is required to align the Tx and Rx chains in phase and amplitude. In some implementations, reciprocity calibration requires implementing a dedicated feedback path. Multiple options are possible for the design of such a feedback path – the main three options are shown in Figure 2.5.1-1, Figure 2.5.1-2, and Figure 2.5.1-3. The main difference between each of the calibration options is the implementation of the feedback network and where the RF feedback and associated distribution circuitry reside. The calibration signal ultimately needs to be relayed back to the AFE, so that the phase and amplitude difference between each of the corresponding Tx-Rx chain and the phase and amplitude differences between the multiple Tx- Rx chains can be estimated and calibrated accurately to ensure uplink and downlink channel reciprocity to enable beamforming. In Calibration option #1, the RF feedback and the distribution circuitry resides in the antenna module and all the RF components including the antenna are part of the Tx/Rx reciprocity calibration loop. In Calibration option #2, the RF feedback and the distribution circuitry resides in the filter module and all the RF components till the filter module are part of the Tx/Rx reciprocity calibration. In Calibration option #3, the RF feedback and the distribution circuitry resides in the RF Section and all the RF components till the RF Section’s output in the Tx path and input in the Rx path are part of the Tx/Rx reciprocity calibration. These calibration options (CAL option #1, #2 and #3) can apply to all three mMIMO O-RU architectures in Figure 2.5.1-1, Figure 2.5.1-2, and Figure 2.5.1-3. It is also worth mentioning that other calibration options are possible where calibration feedback is not needed.

#### 2.5.1.1 O-RU 7-2x Massive MIMO High Level Architecture Option #1
Figure 2.5.1-1 [NxM]T[NxM]R mMIMO O-RU High Level System Architecture #1 7-2x In this section, the diagram of NxM mMIMO O-RU High Level System Architecture option #1 is provided. 7-2x This is a difference factor from the other architectures. In this example the Low-PHY functionalities are implemented in DFE block and ADC and DAC converters are in the AFE block, both of them inside Digital

# 18 Processing Unit.

#### 2.5.1.2 O-RU 7-2x Massive MIMO High Level Architecture Option #2
In the mMIMO O-RU High Level System Architecture #2, the operations that are performed in DFE of 7-2x mMIMO O-RU High Level System Architecture #1 are distributed between the O-RAN Fronthaul Processing Unit & Beamformer and AFE as shown in Figure 2.5.1-2. In particular, the Low-PHY functions of DFE are performed in the ASIC/FPGA for O-RAN Fronthaul Processing Unit & Beamformer and DDC, DUC, CFR, and DPD blocks of DFE are part of AFE in the RFIC as shown in Figure 2.5.1-2. The interconnection between the ORAN Fronthaul Processing Unit & Beamformer and Digital Processing Unit will be done through a digital interface since the Low-PHY is in the first block in this option. Figure 2.5.1-2 [NxM]T[NxM]R mMIMO O-RU High Level System Architecture #2 7-2x

#### 2.5.1.3 O-RU 7-2x Massive MIMO High Level Architecture Option #3
In the mMIMO O-RU High Level System Architecture #3, DFE and AFE functions are combined on a single 7-2x DFE & AFE functional module as shown in Figure 2.5.1-3. In this architecture, (De-)Compression, Low-PHY, DDC, DUC, CFR, and DPD are part of the same FPGA/ASIC. There is a packet-based interface/interconnect between the O-RAN Fronthaul Processing Unit & Beamformer and the DFE & AFE functional module. These modules can be on a single SoC or can be on different FPGA/ASIC. Figure 2.5.1-3 [NxM]T[NxM]R mMIMO O-RU High Level System Architecture #3 7-2x

### 2.5.2 O-RU 7-2x Massive MIMO Hardware Reference Design Architecture
The mMIMO O-RU hardware reference design architecture examples of 32T32R and 64T64R are shown 7-2x in Figure 2.5.2-1 and Figure 2.5.2-2, respectively. The 32T32R and 64T64R hardware architectures shown in Figure 2.5.2-1 and Figure 2.5.2-2, respectively, have four major functional blocks such as ORAN fronthaul processing, digital processing, RF processing (RF transceiver and RF front end units), and antenna units and Section 2.5.1 describes each of these blocks. The ORAN fronthaul processing unit is connected with the digital processing unit through a packet interface. the Digital processing unit is connected to the RF processing unit through a digital interface with an interface such as JESD204. In the RF processing block, the RF Transceiver communicates with the RF front end using an RF interface. The RF transceiver unit has four RFICs that cater for 32T32R i.e., thirty-two transceiver chains, where each RFIC contains eight transceiver chains as shown in Figure 2.5.2-1. Similarly, the RF transceiver unit of 64T64R shown in Figure 2.5.2-2 has eight RFICs. RF front end units are accordingly connected to the transceiver chains. RF front end units connected with the antenna array with the 96 antenna elements, where each element is dual polarized (Vertical and Horizontal) thereby total number of antenna elements are 192. The antenna elements can be grouped in different ways. As an example, these elements can be arranged in two rows vertically and eight columns horizontally, where each row has 6 element sub arrays for 32T32R as shown in Figure 2.5.2-1. Similarly, for 64T64R, 96 antenna elements can be arranged in four rows vertically and eight columns horizontally, where each row has 3 element sub arrays as shown in Figure 2.5.2-2. The transceiver output can be either equally or not (following a specific criterion) fed to the all the subarray elements at the same time with the help of a power divider. Moreover, the antenna calibration process is described in detail in Section 2.5.1. Figure 2.5.2-1 mMIMO O-RU hardware reference design architecture example of 32T32R 7-2x Figure 2.5.2-2 mMIMO O-RU hardware reference design architecture example of 64T64R 7-2x

# 4 2.5.2.1 O-RAN Fronthaul Processing Unit
<<< This is left blank for the future contributions>>>

# 6 2.5.2.2 Digital Processing Unit

# A Digital processing unit (DPU) architecture example of massive MIMO O-RU is shown in Figure 2.5.2-3
7-2x and a detailed description of the same is discussed in Sections 2.5.1 and 2.5.2. The DPU processes the packets from O-RAN fronthaul processing unit through the packet interface and feeds the data/control mapped RF output signals to the RF frontend unit through the RF interface to amplify the RF signals according to the output power requirement of the signal chain. These are subsequently fed to the antenna thereby the signals can be received by the user equipment, e.g., mobile subscriber terminal, home CPE, Wi-

# 13 Fi device etc...
The massive MIMO baseband processing requirements are largely based on the antenna data rate, Instantaneous/occupied bandwidth, number of transceiver chains, number of layers and component carriers and so on. Hence, the massive MIMO digital processing unit need to have one or more i.e., N number of digital front-end units to cater to the necessary baseband signal processing as shown in Figure 2.5.2-6 where an example implementation of the Digital Processing Unit is exposed; other implementations are not precluded. The digital processing unit consists of the processing system and FPGA/ASIC blocks, where the later one handles the functions like compression/decompression, layer mapping, beamforming matrix generation/decoding, FFT/IFFT, CP removal/insertion, channel filtering, and many more. Apart from these, the digital processing unit performs PRACH, and SRS associated functions. Some of the digital processing units may also handle the RF transceiver functions like channel DUC/DDC, CFR, DPD, and DAC/ADC along with associated digital serial interfaces. Figure 2.5.2-3 mMIMO O-RU Digital processing unit architecture example 7-2x

# 6 2.5.2.3 RF Processing Unit
<<< This is left blank for the future contributions>>>

# 8 2.5.2.3.1 RF Transceiver Unit
<<< This is left blank for the future contributions>>>

# 10 2.5.2.3.2 RF Front End Unit
In general, the transmitter chain of mMIMO RF front end unit consists of balun, variable gain amplifier or step attenuator, amplifier stage (power amplifier, driver amplifier (optional), and pre-driver amplifier (optional)), circulator, and the filter (can be cavity or ceramic filters) as shown in Figure 2.5.2-4 and Figure 2.5.2-5 for 32T32R and 64T64R configurations, respectively. Similarly, the receiver chain consists of the low noise amplifier stage and band pass filter. The low noise amplifier stage consists of one or more low noise amplifiers either in normal or bypass mode depending on the received power level and the corresponding amplification requirement. The Digital to analog converter (DAC) output (Downlink RF signal) of the RF transceiver unit is fed to the respective transmitter chain for the amplification and subsequently fed to the antenna. Similarly, the receiver chain (Uplink signal) output from the antenna is fed to the respective analog to digital convertor input of the RF transceiver unit after amplification by the low noise amplifier stage and filtering. The number of RF transceiver units is decided based on the number of DAC outputs/ADC inputs that can be handled by the single unit. As an example, in Figure 2.5.2-4, for 32T32R configuration, four RF transceiver units are present, where each has eight ADC/DAC ports. Subsequently, thirty-two RF front end line-ups are connected to the respective DAC output of RF transceiver unit in the case of the transmitter chain and ADC input of RF transceiver in the case of receiver chain as shown in Figure 2.5.2-4. Figure 2.5.2-4 mMIMO O-RU RF front end architecture example of 32T32R 7-2x Like the 32T32R, as an example, in Figure 2.5.2-5, for 64T64R configuration, eight RF transceiver units are present, where each has eight ADC/DAC ports. Subsequently, sixty-four RF front end line-ups are connected to the respective DAC output of RF transceiver unit in the case of the transmitter chain and ADC input of RF transceiver in the case of receiver chain as shown in Figure 2.5.2-5. Figure 2.5.2-5 mMIMO O-RU RF front end architecture example of 64T64R 7-2x

# 4 2.5.2.4 mMIMO Antenna/Phased array reference design
A mMIMO antenna array reference architecture examples for 32T32R and 64T64R are shown in Figure 2.5.2-6 and Figure 2.5.2-7 respectively. In Figure 2.5.2-6, two transceiver chains are connected to the one sub array with six dual polarized elements. i.e., one transceiver chain is connected to one polarization (vertical) sub array and another one with another polarization (horizontal) sub array. Similarly, each of the transceiver chains are connected to one of the two polarizations of sub arrays. The overall antenna element arrangement of an array for 32T32R is shown in Figure 2.5.2-6 In Figure 2.5.2-6 mMIMO O-RU7-2xantenna array architecture example of 32T32R the parameters like transmitted power per chain, antenna element gain, total antenna array gain, and finally the EIRP are shown/mentioned at the respective part of the architecture for 32T32R configuration. The details of parameters are listed below along with the respective equations. Total output power of the mMIMO Radio Unit in dBm, P = 10log (𝑃 ,𝑊) + 30, dBm,

# T 10 𝑇

# 16 Transmit power per chain, P =
𝑻𝒐𝒕𝒂𝒍 𝒐𝒖𝒕𝒑𝒖𝒕 𝒑𝒐𝒘𝒆𝒓 𝒐𝒇 𝒕𝒉𝒆 𝒎𝑴𝑰𝑴𝑶 𝑹𝒂𝒅𝒊𝒐 𝑼𝒏𝒊𝒕 (𝑷𝑻 ), (𝑾) c 𝑵𝒐 𝒐𝒇 𝒕𝒓𝒂𝒏𝒔𝒄𝒆𝒊𝒗𝒆𝒓 𝒄𝒉𝒂𝒊𝒏𝒔 Transmit power per chain in dBm, P = 10log (𝑃,𝑊) + 30, dBm, c 10 𝑐

# T 𝑬
Total antenna gain in dBi, G = 10log ( 𝑮 ,𝑎𝑏𝑠), dBi,

# T 10 𝑻

# 5 EIRP = P , dBm+ G , dBi.

# T T
Figure 2.5.2-6 mMIMO O-RU antenna array architecture example of 32T32R 7-2x An example calculation for the 32T32R mMIMO in the entire RF chain till the antenna, i.e., EIRP is detailed out below.

# 10 Example calculation for 32T32R mMIMO configuration:

# 11 Specifications:

# 12 No of transceiver chains = 32 i.e., 32T32R,

# 13 Total output power, P = 320 W,
T

# 14 EIRP = 79 dBm,
Total number of antenna elements = 96 (dual linear polarized, hence total number of elements would be

# 16 192),

# 17 Number of elements in a subarray = 6.

# 18 Calculation:

# 19 Total output power P = 320 W,
T Transmit power per chain, P = = 10 W, c Total output power of the mMIMO Radio Unit in dBm, P = 10log (320,𝑊) + 30 = 55.05 dBm,

# T 10
Transmit power per chain in dBm, P = 10log (10 𝑊) + 30 dBm = 40 dBm, c 10

# 5 EIRP = 55.05 + 23.82 = 78.87 dBm,
Similarly, the parameters like transmitted power per chain, antenna element gain, sub array antenna gain, total antenna array gain, and finally the EIRP are shown/mentioned at the respective part of the architecture in Figure 2.5.2-7 mMIMO O-RU7-2x antenna array architecture example of 64T64R. Figure 2.5.2-7 mMIMO O-RU antenna array architecture example of 64T64R 7-2x Also, the example calculation for the entire RF chain till antenna for 64T64R is presented below

# 12 Example calculation 64T64R mMIMO configuration:

# 14 Specifications:

# 15 No of transceiver chains = 64 i.e., 64T64R,

# 16 Total output power, P = 320 W,
T

# 17 EIRP = 79 dBm,
Total number of antenna elements = 96 (dual linear polarized, hence total number of elements would be

# 19 192),

# 20 Number of elements in a subarray = 3.

# 3 Total output power, P = 320 W,
T Transmit power per chain, P = = 5 W, c Total output power of the mMIMO Radio Unit in dBm, P = 10log (320,𝑊) + 30 = 55.05 dBm,

# T 10
Transmit power per chain in dBm, P = 10log (5 𝑊) + 30 dBm = 37 dBm, c 10

# 7 Antenna element gain, G = 4 dBi,
E Final antenna array absolute gain, G , abs = 2.51 x 96 = 240.96, T Antenna subarray gain in dBi, G = 23.82 dBi, T

# 10 EIRP = 55.05 + 23.82 = 78.87 dBm.
The simulation model of mMIMO antenna array with 192 reflector backed elements and the 32T32R mMIMO O-RU antenna array prototype is shown in Figure 2.5.2-8 mMIMO antenna array view (a) simulation model 7-2x of 192 reflector backed antenna element array only and (b) 32T32R mMIMO O-RU7-2x Antenna array prototype [14], respectively.

# 17 (a) (b)
Figure 2.5.2-8 mMIMO antenna array view (a) simulation model of 192 reflector backed antenna element array only and (b) 32T32R mMIMO O-RU Antenna array prototype [14] 7-2x

# 9 Figure 2.5.3-1 Mechanical enclosure
Figure 2.5.3-2 Exploded views of mechanical architecture/stacking examples (a) design #1 and (b) design #2 (a) and (b) show the exploded view of two mechanical design examples along with optional stacking. These figures illustrate the stacking of heat sink including vapor chamber or heat pipe for the heat dissipation, RF board, digital board, cavity filter, RF shield, antenna elements, and finally the top cover (Radome). These designs basically show the single stack up approach where all the RF chains, digital, and power section are placed in same heatsink surface area to make the design thermally stable one with few respective challenges. Different sections can be divided into multiple boards to reduce the complexity of routing as well as testing. Vapor chamber or heat pipe solution will help to mitigate this problem. If required, cut-outs can be given in the shield to provide heat sink area to major heat dissipating components. Figure 2.5.3-2 Exploded views of mechanical architecture/stacking examples (a) design #1 and (b) design #2 shows the mechanical stacking/design where the components/peripherals placed vertically on the RF and digital boards, which results in large height along with moderate width. Accordingly, the cavity filter is designed in accordance with the respective connector position and RF shield also placed vertically to act as an isolator between the radiations coming from the RF board and antenna, in other words, it blocks the signals from RF board to antenna and vice versa. Antenna elements are placed as shown in Figure 2.5.3-2 Exploded views of mechanical architecture/stacking examples (a) design #1 and (b) design #2(a) and (b). Figure 2.5.3-2 Exploded views of mechanical architecture/stacking examples (a) design #1 and (b) design #2 the stacking option where components/peripherals of RF and digital boards are placed horizontally, and this results in the overall radio unit to have a broader width and moderate height. Here the RF shield and cavity filters are placed in accordance with the layout of RF and digital boards.

# 11 (a)

# 13 (b)
Figure 2.5.3-2 Exploded views of mechanical architecture/stacking examples (a) design #1 and (b) design #2

## 2.6 FHGW Hardware Reference Design
The O-RAN Hardware Reference Design Specification for Fronthaul Gateway v2.0 (if required by design) can be found here: https://orandownloadsweb.azurewebsites.net/specifications The fronthaul gateway can be used to terminate O-RAN fronthaul user, control, synchronization, and management planes for option 7-2x and to translate the signals to and from several CPRI interfaces (option 8). It can further multiplex or demultiplex option 7-2x fronthaul signals to or from several O-RUs. This version of the specification only supports option 7-2x to option 8 conversion and vice versa in addition to the transport of other traffic streams.

## 1.1 Supermicro O-DU:
No. Supermicro Part Number Description SYS-112D-42C-FRDN8P X14 1U 400mm Rackmount Server, with dual 600W DC Power Supply (integrated SOC in above part) Intel Xeon 6 Granite Rapids D 42core CPU MEM-DR564L-SL02-ER56 64GB DDR5-5600 2Rx4 LP (16Gb) ECC RDIMM HDS-MMN-MTFDKBA480TFR1BC Micron 7450 PRO 480GB NVMe PCIe4.0 M.2 AOM-TPM-9670V-S-O Trusted Platform Module 2.0

## 1.2 ADI Based O-RU 4T4R:
No. Item Name Description

## 1.3 ADI Based O-RU 8T8R:
No. Item Name Description AD9576BPZ Dual PLL, Asynchronous Clock Generator AD9545BCPZ IEEE 1588 V2 and 1 pps Synchronizer and Adaptive Clock Translator MAX6581TG9A+ ±1°C Accurate 8-Channel Temperature Sensor DS1339C-33# I²C Serial Real-Time Clock ADIN1300CCPZ Robust, Industrial, Low Latency and Low Power 10 Mbps, 100 Mbps, and 1 Gbps Ethernet PHY

# 8 ADRV904x 8T8R 400MHz RF Transceiver, Integrated Observation Paths
with DFE

# 9 Intel® AGFB014R24B212V Intel® Agilex® AGF014
LTC2980 PMBus Power System Manager LTC4251BIS6-1#TRMPBF Negative Voltage Hot Swap Controllers in SOT-23 LTC3888-1 Dual Loop 8-Phase Step-Down DC/DC Controller with Digital Power System Management LTC8625SP-1 18V/8A Step-Down Silent Switcher 3 with Ultralow Noise LT8627SPJV#PBF 18V/16A Step-Down Silent Switcher 3 with Ultralow Noise LTC3315AJV#WTRPBF Dual 5V, 2A Synchronous Step-Down DC/DCs in Tiny LQFN and WLCSP LTC3636EUFD#TRPBF Dual Channel 6A, 20V Monolithic Synchronous Step-Down Regulator LTC3618EUF#PBF Dual 4MHz, ±3A Synchronous Buck Converter for DDR Termination ADCLK846BCPZ-REEL7 1.8V, 6 LVDS/12 CMOS Output Low Power Clock Fanout Buffer History Date Revision Description 2022/02/02 v01.00 Published as final version 01.00 2022/11/09 v02.00 Published as revision 02.00 (adds a new section for O-RU internal interfaces with updated diagrams and massive MIMO reference design) 2023/02/16 v03.00 Published as revision 03.00 (updated section 2.2 O-DU spec and Annex 1.1) 2025/06/04 v04.00 Published as revision 04.00 (updated section 2.2 O-DU spec and Annex 1.1)


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG7.OMC-HAR.0-v01.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG7.OMC-HAR.0-v01.00 Technical Specification Outdoor Micro Cell Hardware Architecture and Requirements (FR1) Specification"
---

# 8 Release x.y.z
where: x the first digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc. (the initial approved document will have x=01). y the second digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been incorporated in the document. z the third digit included only in working versions of the document indicating incremental changes during the editing process. This variable is for internal WG7 use only. The present document specifies system requirements and high-level architecture for the Outdoor Micro Cell deployment scenario case as specified in the Deployment Scenarios and Base Station Classes document [1].

## 1.2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this text, constitute provisions of the present document. [1] O-RAN-WG7.DSC.0-V01.00 Technical Specification, ‘Deployment Scenarios and Base Station Classes for White Box Hardware’. [2] 3GPP TR 21.905: "Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications". [3] 3GPP TR 38.104: "NR; Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception". [4] O-RAN-WG4.CUS.0-v01.00 Technical Specification, ‘O-RAN Fronthaul Working Group Control, User and Synchronization Plane Specification’. [5] CPRI Specification V7.0 (2015-10-09) Interface Specification, ‘Common Public Radio Interface (CPRI). [6] Small Cell Forum, SCF222.10.02 5G FAPI: PHY API Specification, https://scf.io/en/documents/222_5G_FAPI_PHY_API_Specification.php [7] 3GPP TS 38.113: “NR: Base Station (BS) Electromagnetic Compatibility (EMC) [8] O-RAN Architecture Description, O-RAN-WG1-O-RAN Architecture Description - v01.00.00 Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V.

## 1.3 Definitions and Abbreviations

# 7 Carrier Frequency: Center frequency of the cell.
F1 interface: The standard interface between an O-CU and an O-DU specified in [8]. x Integrated architecture: An architecture wherein the O-RU and O-DU are implemented on one platform. x x Each O-RU and RF front end is associated with one O-DU and is connected to O-CU via F1 interface. x x Split architecture: An architecture wherein O-RU and O-DU are physically separated from one another. A x x switch may aggregate multiple O-RU (s) to one O-DU . The O-DU , switch and O-RU (s) are connected by x x x x the fronthaul interface as defined in [4]. Transmission Reception Point (TRxP): Antenna array with one or more antenna elements available to the network located at a specific geographical location for a specific area. Occupied Bandwidth (OBW): It refers to the bandwidth occupied by the base station when operated, defined by the sum of the active bandwidths of the band allocation(s) operated. As defined by 3GPP TS 34.121 section 5.8, occupied bandwidth is the bandwidth containing 99% of the total integrated power of the transmitted spectrum, centered on the assigned channel frequency. The bandwidth between the 0.5% power frequency points is the occupied bandwidth. Instantaneous Bandwidth (IBW): It refers to the bandwidth in which all frequency components can be simultaneously analyzed. It is defined by the frequency boundaries of the operating band(s). Frequency Range: It refers to bandwidth defined by the frequency range within which the Base Station can be operated, defined by the band-pass filter of the BS; e.g., 3.4 – 3.8 GHz (400 MHz) Frequency Band: A designated frequency range for the operation of the base station and the UE radios. 5G NR frequency bands are divided into two different frequency ranges: Frequency Range 1 (FR1) that mainly includes sub-6GHz frequency bands, some of which are bands traditionally used by previous standards but has been extended to cover potential new spectrum offerings from 410MHz to 7125MHz; Frequency Range 2 (FR2) that includes frequency bands from 24.25 GHz to 52.6 GHz. Bands in this mmWave range have shorter range but higher available bandwidth than bands in the FR1. Fronthaul Gateway (FHGW): A fronthaul gateway is a physical entity that is located between a distributed unit and one or more radio units where it distributes, aggregates, and/or converts fronthaul protocols between the distributed unit and multiple radio units. Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Normative terms used in this specification are defined in following:

# 3 Should: indicated as recommendation

# 4 May: indicates a permission

# 5 1.3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in [2] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, as in [2]. 7-2 Fronthaul interface split option as defined by O-RAN WG4, also referred to as 7-2x

# 10 3GPP Third Generation Partnership Project

# 11 5G Fifth-Generation Mobile Communications

# 12 5GC 5G Core

# 13 ACS Adjacent Channel Selectivity

# 14 ADC Analog to Digital Converter

# 15 ASIC Application Specific Integrated Circuit

# 16 ATA Advanced Technology Attachment

# 17 BPSK Binary Phase Shift Keying

# 18 BS Base Station

# 19 CDR Clock/Data Recovery

# 20 CFR Crest Factor Reduction

# 21 CU Centralized Unit as defined by 3GPP

# 22 DAC Digital to Analog Converter

# 23 DDC Digital Down Conversion

# 24 DDR Double Data Rate

# 25 DL Downlink

# 26 DPD Digital Pre-Distortion

# 27 DSP Digital Signal Processor

# 28 DU Distributed Unit as defined by 3GPP

# 29 DUC Digital Up Conversion

# 30 EMC ElectroMagnetic Compatibility

# 31 EVM Error Vector Magnitude

# 32 FFT Fast Fourier Transform

# 33 FH Fronthaul

# 34 FHGW Fronthaul Gateway
FHGW Fronthaul gateway with no FH protocol translation, supporting an O-DU with split option x x x and an O-RU with split option x, with currently available options 66, 7-27-2 and 88 x Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. FHGW Fronthaul Gateway that can translate FH protocol from an O-DU with split option x to an O- x→y x RU with split option y, with currently available option 7-28. y

# 3 FPGA Field Programmable Gate Array

# 4 GbE Gigabit Ethernet

# 5 GNSS Global Navigation Satellite System

# 6 GPP General Purpose Processor

# 7 IEEE Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers

# 8 IMD InterModulation Distortion

# 9 I/O Input/Output

# 10 JTAG Joint Test Action Group
L1 Layer 1, also referred to as PHY or Physical Layer in OSI model L2 Layer 2, also referred to as Data Link layer in OSI model L3 Layer 3, also referred to as Network Layer in OSI model

# 14 LED Light Emitting Diode

# 15 LTE Long Term Evolution

# 16 MAC Media Access Control

# 17 MCP Multi-Chip Package

# 18 MIMO Multiple Input Multiple Output

# 19 MTBF Mean Time Between Failures

# 20 MU-MIMO Multiple User MIMO

# 21 NG Next Generation

# 22 NR New Radio

# 23 OAM Operations, Administrations and Maintenance

# 24 OBW Occupied Bandwidth

# 25 O-CU O-RAN Centralized Unit as defined by O-RAN
O-DU A specific O-RAN Distributed Unit having fronthaul split option x where x may be 6, 7-2 (as x defined by WG4) or 8 O-RU A specific O-RAN Radio Unit having fronthaul split option x, where x is 6, 7-2 (as defined x by WG4) or 8, and which is used in a configuration where the fronthaul interface is the same at the O-DU x

# 31 PCIe Peripheral Component Interface Express

# 32 PDCP Packet Data Convergence Protocol

# 33 PHY Physical Layer, also referred as L1

# 34 PLL Phase Locked Loop

# 35 POE Power over Ethernet

# 36 QAM Quadrature Amplitude Modulation

# 37 QPSK Quadrature Phase Shift Keying

# 38 RAN Radio Access Network

# 39 RF Radio Frequency
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V.

# 3 RU Radio Unit as defined by 3GPP

# 4 RX Receiver

# 5 SDU Service Data Unit

# 6 SFP Small Form-factor Pluggable

# 7 SFP+ Small Form-factor Pluggable Transceiver

# 8 SoC System on Chip

# 9 SPI Serial Peripheral Interface

# 10 TR Technical Report

# 11 TRP Total Radiated Power

# 12 TS Technical Specification

# 13 TX Transmitter

# 14 UL Uplink

# 15 USB Universal Serial Bus

# 16 WG Working Group
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Chapter 2 Deployment Scenarios and White Box Base Station Architecture This chapter consists of two parts: the deployment scenario and the white box architecture. The deployment scenarios outline more specific functional requirements of the base station. All the reference designs shall meet these requirements in order to comply with O-RAN white box standard. In the white box hardware architecture section, it describes the overall gNB hardware architecture and function partition that meet the design requirements. The details on each of these topics are described in the following sections.

# 12 • Cell type: Outdoor Micro Cell

# 13 • Mounting Options: Rooftop, side of building/wall, pole

# 14 • Inter site distance: 1.5 kilometers
- Possible Carrier Frequency Bands: n2, n4, n5, n13, n41, n48, n66, n77, n78, n79

# 16 • [Instantaneous] Bandwidth: Up to 280 MHz

# 17 • Antennas Configuration: Up to 16T16R

# 18 • Coverage: Sectorized

# 19 • Conducted Power: up to 10W per port

# 20 • Number of Layers: Up to 16 layers
- Fronthaul Type: O-RAN FH (WG4) split option 7.2x.

# 22 • Architecture: Split architecture

# 4 Figure 2-1: Split Architecture
For integrated base station architecture, the O-DU is integrated with the O-RU into one box. Figure 2-2 shows the integrated architecture. O-DU&O-RU F1 F1 Interface Interface Switch/ O-CU O-DU&O-RU Router O-DU&O-RU

# 8 Figure 2-2: Integrated Architecture

# 9 2.2.1 Split RAN Architecture
For medium and large coverage deployment scenarios, the base station with split RAN architecture is more cost effective. This type of architecture is widely deployed in 4G networks. The main idea of this architecture is “shared cell”. By using the fronthaul gateway, many radio units can then share the same radio spectrum resource in one cell. This configuration is very useful in both low and high capacity scenarios. Therefore, when an O- DU and FHGW are capable of handling cell splits, multiple O-RU (s) can be grouped together to share the x x x radio resources. Accordingly, the choice of fronthaul split option changes the architecture of the base station. WG7 has recognized the following four split option architectures per service providers’ deployment needs which are shown in Figure 2-3 through Figure 2-6.

# 18 1) Option 6 to option 6 split architecture
In split option 6, all L1 functions are within O-RU while the O-DU contains functions of MAC and

# 6 6
above. Figure 2-3 shows the block diagram of base station having an option 6 split architecture. Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. FH O-RU6 Switch/ Option6 FH Router Option6 O-CU O-DU6 or O-RU6 Fronthaul O-CU & O-DU may/may not be integrated into one Whitebox Gateway O-RU6 Figure 2-3: Option 6 to Option 6 Split Architecture

# 3 2) Option 7-2 to option 7-2 split architecture:
In split option 7-2, low PHY functions reside in the O-RU , while the high PHY functions reside in 7-2 the O-DU . O-RAN WG4 CUS-plane spec [4] outlines the details of this split option under different 7-2 usage scenarios. FH O-RU FH Switch/ Option7-2 Option7-2 Router O-CU O-DU or O-RU Fronthaul O-CU & O-DU may/may not be integrated into one Whitebox Gateway O-RU Figure 2-4: Option 7-2 to Option 7-2 Split Architecture

# 10 3) Option 7-2 to option 8 split:
This configuration is selected when a deployment scenario requires a radio unit which only supports split option 8 architecture. Since this is currently not part of overall O-RAN architecture, CPRI based option 8 fronthaul and FHGW will be included in the reference design specification. Figure 2-5 7-28 depicts the option 7-2 to option 8 based split architecture. There is no change for the definition of O- DU , However, O-RU supports option 8 fronthaul interface while the FHGW translates the 7-2 8 7-28 fronthaul protocol between option 7-2 and CPRI. FH O-RU8 Fronthaul FH Option8 Gateway Option7-2 O-CU O-DU 7-2 with O-RU8 Option O-CU & O-DU may/may not be integrated into one Whitebox Translator O-RU8 Figure 2-5: Option 7-2 to Option 8 Split Architecture Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V.

# 8 8
The option 8 fronthaul interface definition and the requirements shall be part of the white box reference design, if adopted. In this case, the O-DU consists of L1 and L2 processing functions. Figure 2-6 shows an option 8 based split architecture. Note that O-CU and O-DU hardware may be integrated into one Whitebox this is also shown in Figure 2-6. FH O-RU8 FH Option8 Option8 Fronthaul O-CU O-DU8 Gateway O-RU8 O-CU & O-DU may/may not be integrated into one Whitebox O-RU8 Figure 2-6: Option 8 to Option 8 Split Architecture

# 10 2.2.2 Integrated gNB-DU Architecture
For integrated gNB-DU, the complete L1/L2 and radio functions are integrated into a single box which includes all logical functions of O-DU and O-RU. Figure 2-7 shows the block diagram of integrated gNB-DU. The gNB- DU connects with the O-CU through an F1 interface as defined by [8]. This specification does not support an integrated option [per requirements in Section 2.1]. gNB-DU F1 O-CU O-DU O-RU

# 16 Figure 2-7: Integrated gNB-DU Architecture
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Chapter 3 White Box Hardware Architecture Based on the gNB physical implementation architectures discussed earlier, this chapter provides the architecture, major building blocks and all external/internal interfaces for each Whitebox.

## 3.1 O-CU Hardware Architecture
In a 3GPP system architecture, the gNB Central Unit (CU) communicates to the Distribution Unit (DU) via an F1 interface. This interface has been adopted by O-RAN Alliance as well. F1 is an IP based protocol interface, which offers more flexibility in the O-CU platform design.

# 8 3.1.1 O-CU Architecture Diagram
The O-CU can be implemented with any General-Purpose Processor (GPP) based platform having an optional hardware accelerator block. The O-CU functions can be implemented either on separated hardware platforms or on the same hardware platforms integrated with O-DU functions. In either case, the O-CU hosts L2/L3 x functions, whereas O-DU hosts L2/L1 functions which require different CPU, Storage, Acceleration and Networking capabilities. Figure 3-1 shows the hardware blocks and interfaces within the O-CU white box. Ethernet Digital Processing Hardware Interface Unit Accelerator Backhaul (Ethernet or Ethernet Wireless) Interface F1 Interface O-CU (Ethernet)

# 18 Figure 3-1: O-CU White Box Hardware Block Diagram

# 19 3.1.2 O-CU Functional Module Description
The O-CU functional architecture comprises Digital Signal Processing, optional HW Acceleration, and Connectivity (GbE) units as well as memory and storage units as shown in Figure 3-1. Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V.

## 3.2 O-DU Hardware Architecture

# 4 7-2
For a split RAN architecture, the functional blocks of the RAN physical layer are divided into two parts – high PHY and low PHY. The O-RAN lower layer split is defined in O-RAN WG4 fronthaul interface specification [4]. It also provides the details of the interface protocol as well as function partitions.

# 8 3.2.1 O-DU 7-2 Architecture Diagram
Depending on the 3GPP standards and category of the radio unit, the split function blocks within O-DU and 7-2 O-RU may vary accordingly. The O-RAN fronthaul C/U/S-plane specification [4] provides comprehensive 7-2 information on this topic. The hardware functional partition architecture is shown in Figure 3-2. The High-PHY functions in O-DU are run on Digital Processing Unit, Hardware Accelerator, or both. Hardware Accelerator Ethernet Digital Timing and Synchronization 1 PPS (IN or OUT) Interface Processing Unit (IEEE 1588) F1 Interface O-RAN FH Interface Ethernet Low Interface PHY O-DU 7-2 O-RU7-

# 14 Figure 3-2: O-DU7-2 with Split Physical Layer Function

# 15 3.2.2 O-DU 7-2 Functional Module Description
The choice of O-DU hardware components depends on the product design requirements and is outside the 7-2 scope of this specification. Figure 3-3 shows the main components of O-DU . Their descriptions and 7-2 requirements are as follows:

# 19 Digital Processing Unit
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. The processing unit can be any GPP, FPGA or digital signal processor (DSP), with I/O chipset. It may also be in the form of System-On-Chip (SOC), or Multi-Chip Package (MCP).

# 3 Memory
DDR memory devices are used to store the runtime data and software for the processing unit.

# 5 Flash Memory
On board non-volatile storage device is used to store the firmware and non-volatile data, such as log data.

# 7 Board Management Controller
The controller is used to manage/control the power and monitors the operational status of the board.

# 9 Storage Device
The storage device such as hard drive is used to store OS, driver and applications software.

# 11 Ethernet Controller
The Ethernet ports transport the fronthaul or backhaul traffic according to the gNB hardware node requirements. The Ethernet device shall support IEEE1588 based timing synchronization.

# 14 Hardware Accelerator
The hardware accelerator is an optional device. For performance improvement, the hardware accelerator can be used to process computationally-intensive functions (e.g., Forward Error Correction (FEC)) and to offload the processor. Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Accelerator PCIe Memory USB Ports USB DDR RAM Channel Flash Video Port VGA SPI Memory PCIe Slots PCIe Digital Processing Unit SMbus SMBus Port Storage Serial Ports RS232 SATA Drives Ethernet Timing Timing Signal Ethernet Ports

# 3 3.2.3 O-DU 7-2 Interfaces
The O-DU supported interfaces described below are also shown in Figure 3-3. 7-2

# 5 Memory Channel Interface

# 6 Support DDR4 and later memory interface.

# 7 PCIe Interface
Support for PCIe Gen3 x16 and later interface versions; the bandwidth depends on the use cases, and it can be used to connect an accelerator device or network card.

# 10 Ethernet Interfaces

# 11 Supports any one or combination of GbE/10GbE/25GbE/40GbE links.

# 12 Serial ATA Interface
SATA3 shall be supported in case of software storage, such as hard drive.

# 14 SPI Interface
The SPI interface connects the processor with flash type of device for firmware.

# 16 Video Interface

# 17 Video interface is optional

# 18 USB Interface
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Used to connect with local device for debug or on-board firmware update.

## 3.3 O-DU Hardware Architecture

# 4 6

# 5 This section intentionally left blank.

## 3.4 O-DU Hardware Architecture

# 6 8

# 7 This section intentionally left blank.

## 3.5 FHGW - Option 7-2 to Option 7-2 Hardware Architecture

# 8 7-2

# 9 This section intentionally left blank.

## 3.6 FHGW - Option 6 to Option 6 Hardware Architecture

# 10 6

# 11 This section intentionally left blank.

## 3.7 FHGW - Option 7-2 to Option 8 Hardware Architecture

# 12 7-2->8

# 13 This section intentionally left blank.

## 3.8 FHGW - Option 8 to Option 8 Hardware Architecture

# 14 8

# 15 This section intentionally left blank.

## 3.9 O-RU Hardware Architecture

# 16 7-2
O-RU consists of four modules, namely optical interface, digital processing unit, RF processing unit and 7-2 antenna unit, as well as a timing unit as shown in Figure 3-4. The Ethernet interface complies with O-RAN WG4 open fronthaul interface. The O-RU can directly connect with an O-DU or connect through a FHGW 7-2 7-2 7- . While the O-RU hardware supports NR by default, LTE support is not precluded.

# 12 Figure 3-4: O-RU7-2 Architecture Diagram

# 13 3.9.2 O-RU 7-2 Functional Module Description
In Figure 3-5, we illustrate O-RU functional blocks that support O-RAN FH with split option 7-2x. There is at 7-2 least one interface port which supports all fronthaul interface and PoE functionalities. The digital processing unit block of O-RU is responsible for low-PHY functions such as FFT/IFFT, CP addition/removal, and PRACH 7-2 Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. filtering. Digital Down Converter (DDC), Digital Up Converter (DUC), Crest Factor Reduction (CFR) and Digital Pre-Distortion (DPD) functions are also performed in digital processing unit. For bandwidth reduction, O-RU architecture also supports the optional compression and decompression functions of FH interface. The 7-2 ADC and DAC are mixed signal devices responsible for conversion of data between the digital and analog domains. As such, this block can be included as part of the either the digital processing unit or the radio processing unit. The RF Processing Unit consists of an optional frequency converter (mixer), Power Amplifier (PA)/ Low Noise Amplifier (LNA) and TX/RX filters. An antenna module follows that comprises physical antennae, RF feed distribution/aggregation network, and calibration network. The timing unit includes any clock and frequency synthesis required as well as other timing and synchronization circuits. In any given implementation, the physical boundaries between blocks may be slightly different, but the logical interfaces between will generally follow those shown in Figure 3-5. Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. ecafretnI lacitpO Digital Signal Processing Module RF Processing and Antenna Modules (De-) O-RAN FH/ DDC/ CFR/ ADC/ PA/LNA/ and Antenna eCPRI Compression Mixer IEEE 1588v2 DUC DPD DAC TX/RX Filters Module To/From Low-PHY O-DU7-2x O-RU7-2x Timing/LO

# 13 Figure 3-5: O-RU7-2 Generic Functional Module Diagram

## 3.10 O-RU Hardware Architecture

# 14 6

# 15 This section intentionally left blank.

## 3.11 O-RU Hardware Architecture

# 16 8

# 17 This section intentionally left blank.

## 3.12 Integrated gNB-DU Hardware Architecture

# 19 This section intentionally left blank.
Chapter 4 White Box Hardware Requirements This chapter provides the requirements for various white boxes used within the Outdoor Microcell base station. These white boxes are O-CU, O-DU , O-RU and FHGW . The O-CU and O-DU can be implemented in an x x x x integrated fashion into one white box hardware or they can be separated. The reference design based on specification shall meet all these requirements based on their priority as specified by operators.

## 4.1 O-CU Requirements
O-CU requirements are described in the following sections, which include the performance, interface, environmental. EMC, mechanical, thermal and power requirements.

# 9 4.1.1 O-CU Performance
The performance requirements of the O-CU are listed in Table 4-1.

# 11 Table 4-1 :O-CU Performance Requirements
Parameter Requirement Description Priority Support 1588v2 Synchronization High High Support GNSS Synchronization Timing Low Support BeiDou Synchronization Synchronization synchronization method Low Support Galileo Synchronization Low Support GLONASS Synchronization Support High switching between 1588v2 and GNSS Support SyncE Low For O-CU/O-DU integrated architecture: N/A None x Number of O- Number of O- DU (s) connected DU x supported For O-CU/O-DU x non-integrated architecture: to a x single O-CU High Determined by operator deployment requirements For O-CU/O-DU integrated architecture: N/A None x Supported Cell Cells supported by Number For O-CU/O-DU non-integrated architecture: an O-CU x High Determined by operator deployment requirements Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. For O-CU/O-DU integrated architecture: N/A None x Supported RRC RLC links link number For O-CU/O-DU non-integrated architecture: supported by O-CU x High Determined by operator deployment requirements For O-CU/O-DU integrated architecture: N/A None x Throughput Throughput between O-CU and between O-DU x For O-CU/O-DU x non-integrated architecture: O-DU x link High Determined by operator deployment requirements Highest theoretical Peak Data Rate TBD data rate in error None free conditions. Control Plane< 10ms (def: Msg1 to Msg5) Latency User Plane DL < 4ms UL< 4ms (def: PDCP SDU- O-CU latency High > PDCP SDU)

# 3 Table 4-2: O-CU Interface Requirements
Parameter Requirement Description Priority

# 10 GbE F1 Interface to connect with O-DU or x
High

# 25 GbE F1 Interface to connect with O-DU
x O-CU transport links to Transport Interface GbE NG interface to connect with 5G O-DU and 5GC x core(b) or High

# 25 GbE NG interface to connect with 5G core

# 5 4.1.3 O-CU Environmental and EMC
The EMC requirements of the O-CU are listed in Table 4-3.

# 7 Table 4-3: O-CU EMC Requirements
Parameter Requirement Description Priority Shall comply with the requirements of 3GPP TS 38.113 Electromagnetic EMC (2017-12 Rel-15) [7] for equipment used in Compatibility High telecommunication room requirement Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Note: For O-CU and O-DU integrated solution, this requirement for O-CU portion is captured in the following O-DU x x section.

# 3 4.1.4 O-CU Mechanical, Thermal and Power
The mechanical, thermal and power requirements of the O-CU are listed in the following tables.

# 5 Table 4-4: O-CU Mechanical Requirements
Parameter Requirement Description Priority Built in any 19" standard rack, or stand alone, with overall Measurement Dimensions height of no more than 5U(a) and depth (including the in three Low connector) less than 750mm. dimensions Shall include as a minimum the following status indicators: Status Indicator Indicator ---1 indicating on/off status of the power supply High light LED ---1 indicating on/off status of the transmission link

# 6 Note:
(a) Note that this dimension is application dependent and its value may change accordingly.

# 9 Table 4-5: O-CU Thermal Requirements
Parameter Requirement Description Priority Operate steadily and reliably over a long period of time under Environmental the following environmental conditions for data center: requirements for reliability High Operating Temperature: - 0 ℃ ~ + 50 ℃ Temperature Relative humidity: 15% ~ 85% and Humidity The solution should support extended temperature range (- Environmental 40℃ to +65 ℃) and humidity (5%-95%) if implemented requirements Low outdoors. for reliability Note: For O-CU and O-DU integrated solution, this requirement for O-CU portion is captured in the following O-DU x x section.

# 12 Table 4-6: O-CU Power Requirements
Parameter Requirement Description Priority Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. DC -48 VDC (-40v ~ -57v) (can be connected to AC/DC Power supply Power Supply converter) or AC 220V power supply, voltage range of High for O-CU 140V~ 300v, frequency range of 45Hz ~ 65Hz. O-CU Power Power Dissipation < TBD W full load operation High Requirement Note: For O-CU and O-DU integrated solution, this requirement for O-CU portion is captured in the following O-DU x x section.

## 4.2 O-DU Common Requirements
x The O-DU here takes the function of high PHY or whole PHY, OAM function and layer 2. Usually the x hardware is placed in the machine room, which can be collocated in the coverage building or in the central machine room far away from the coverage building.

# 7 4.2.1 O-DU x Performance
The performance requirements of the O-DU are listed in Table 4-7. x

# 9 Table 4-7: O-DUx Performance Requirements
Parameter Requirement Description Priority Channel Bandwidth ≤200 MHz OBW RF Bandwidth High Antenna 4T4R High Configuration Tx/Rx antenna number (Number of up to 16T16R Low Transceivers) Distance between DU Transmission distance Measured in delay. TBD High and FHGW /RU x Fronthaul Gateway Connect Topology NA None connection topology High Support 1588v2 Synchronization Timing synchronization Synchronization method Support GNSS Synchronization; Sync. between BS <= 150 ns; Carrier freq. High error within one subframe <±0.1 PPM Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Support BeiDou Synchronization Low Support Galileo Synchronization Low Low Support GLONASS Synchronization Support High switching between 1588v2 and GNSS Support SyncE Low 4T4R: 4 layers and 200 MHz OBW High MIMO related Capacity/MIMO capability up to 16T16R and TBD Low Peak Rate TBD Peak data rate High DL: QPSK,16QAM,64QAM,256QAM High UL: π/2-bpsk, QPSK, 16QAM, 64QAM Modulation Modulation schemes UL: 256QAM Medium Control Plane< 10ms (def: Msg1 to Msg5) Control/user plane Latency User Plane DL < 4ms UL< 4ms (def: PDCP High Latency

# 3 Table 4-8: O-DUx Interface Requirements
Parameter Requirement Description Priority O-DU Fronthaul Gateway: N/A x None Transport transport Interface At least one 10 GbE F1 interface to connect with O-CU(b) links High

# 4 Notes:

# 5 (a) For O-CU and O-DU that are co-located
x (b) For O-CU and O-Dux that are separated physically

# 7 4.2.3 O-DU x Environmental and EMC
The EMC requirements of the O-DU are listed in Table 4-9. x Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V.

# 3 4.2.4 O-DU x Mechanical, Thermal and Power
The mechanical requirements of the O-DU are listed in Table 4-10. x

# 5 Table 4-10: O-DUx Mechanical Requirements
Parameter Requirement Description Priority Built in any 19" standard rack, or stand alone, and the height Measurement in Dimension does not exceed 5U(a), the depth (including the connector) Low three dimensions must be less than 750mm. Shall include as a minimum the following status indicators: Status ---1 indicating the on/off status of optical fiber interface Indicator Indicator lights High ---1 indicating off status of the power supply LED ---1 indicating on/off status of the transmission link

# 6 Note:
(a) Note that this dimension is application dependent and its value may change accordingly. The thermal requirements of the O-DU are listed in Table 4-11. x

# 10 Table 4-11: O-DUx Thermal Requirements
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Parameter Requirement Description Priority The O-DU shall operate steadily and reliably over a Environmental x long period of time under the following environmental requirements conditions for data center: for reliability High Operating Temperature: - 0 ℃ ~ + 50 ℃ Temperature and Humidity Relative humidity: 15% ~ 85% The solution should support extended temperature Environmental range (-40℃ to +65 ℃) and humidity (5%-95%) if requirements Low implemented outdoors. for reliability The power requirements of the O-DU are listed in Table 4-12. x

# 3 Table 4-12: O-DUx Power Requirements
Parameter Requirement Description Priority DC -48 VDC (-40v ~ -57v) (can be connected to AC/DC Power supply for Power Supply converter) or AC 220V power supply, voltage range of High O-DU x 140V~ 300v, frequency range of 45Hz ~ 65Hz. < TBD W, with 4 cells full load operation High Power O-DU Power x Dissipation Requirement < TBD W, with 8 cells full load operation Medium

## 4.3 O-DU Split Option Specific Requirements
x In addition to the common O-DU requirements, there may be some specific requirements that apply to O-DU x x due to the split option. These requirements are listed in the following sections.

# 8 4.3.1 O-DU 7-2 Specific Requirements
The specific requirements of O-DU are listed in Table 4-13. 7-2 Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V.

# 3 4.3.2 O-DU 6 Specific Requirements

# 4 This section intentionally left blank.

# 5 4.3.3 O-DU 8 Specific Requirements

# 6 This section intentionally left blank.

## 4.4 O-RU Common Requirements
x The O-RU common requirements apply to all the radio units regardless of the split option. In the indoor x environment, O-RU hardware is placed on the cell or wall of the coverage building; it converts the base band x signal into RF signal or vice versa to supply the coverage.

# 11 4.4.1 O-RU x Performance
The O-RU performance requirements cover all the aspects of radio unit including frequency bands, antenna x configurations, power efficiency, etc. Table 4-14 lists the performance parameters related to O-RU . x

# 14 Table 4-14: O-RUx Performance Requirements
Parameter Requirement Description Priority n77 High Radio frequency Operating band band n2, n4, n13, n41, n48, n66, n78, n79 Low [Occupied] Frequency ≤200 MHz High Bandwidth bandwidth Antenna 4T4R High Configuration Tx/Rx Antenna (Number of numbers up to 16T16R Low Transceivers) Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Output Power Under normal condition: ±2dB Power accuracy High Accuracy less than -85dBm/MHz; See section 6.4.1 in Tx power level Tx off Power Level High 3GPP TS 38.104 [3]. during an off period 64QAM: EVM smaller than 8% EVM at maximum Max output power High output power 256QAM: EVM smaller than 3.5% The Operating band unwanted emissions shall RF operation band Operating band satisfy the Category B limit defined by the unwanted emissions High unwanted emissions section 6.6.4.2.4 in 3GPP TS 38.104 [3]. requirement The Operating band unwanted emissions shall Deliberately Transmitter spurious satisfy the Category B limit defined by the generated RF signal High emissions section 6.6.4.2.4 in [3]. by transmitter The throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference The weakest signal Receiver Sensitivity measurement channel of G-FR1-A1-5; the the receiver can High reference sensitivity levels shall be better than identify and process -95.6dBm. In Channel selection, ACS, In-band blocking, out-band blocking, IMD and other receiver specification shall follow the 3GPP guidelines Channel selection Blocking High in [3][5], the reference sensitivity is allowed to related requirement degrade at most 6dB under all kinds of interference signal and corresponding level. Except for all the RF specifications listed Additional standard Other specifications above, other RF specifications shall follow the High to comply requirement in [3]. Downlink DL Modulation QPSK、16-QAM、64-QAM、256-QAM High modulation Mode schemes π/2-BPSK、QPSK、16-QAM、64-QAM High UL Modulation Uplink modulation schemes medium mode 256QAM 4T4R: up to 10W per port High Conducted Power RF power 16T16R: TBD Low

# 3 4.4.3 O-RU x Environmental and EMC
The environmental and EMC requirements of the O-RU are listed in Table 4-16. x

# 5 Table 4-16: O-RUx Environmental and EMC Requirements
Parameter Requirement Description Priority Mounting Mounting method Rooftop, side of building/wall or pole High requirement The O-RU shall support Joint Grounding x Grounding Grounding Method and shall work normally when the High requirement grounding resistor is less than 10Ω. Electromagnetic The O-RU shall comply with the requirements x EMC Compatibility High of 3GPP TS 38.113 [7] requirement

# 7 4.4.4 O-RU x Mechanical, Thermal and Power
The mechanical, thermal and power requirements of the O-RU are listed in Table 4-17. x Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V.

## 4.5 O-RU Split Option Specific Requirements
x Besides the common requirements which shall apply to all the radio unit types. The following sections list all the specific requirements that only apply to the designated split option.

# 4 4.5.1 O-RU 7-2 Specific Requirements
The O-RU must have one RJ45 or SFP 10G Ethernet interface used as fronthaul interface. The O-RU must 7-2 7-2 support the lower physical layer functions and comply with [4].

# 7 4.5.2 O-RU 6 Specific Requirements

# 8 This section intentionally left blank.

# 9 4.5.3 O-RU 8 Specific Requirements

# 10 This section intentionally left blank.

## 4.6 FHGW – Common Requirements
x

# 12 This section intentionally left blank.

## 4.7 FHGW – Split Option Specific Requirements
x

# 14 This section intentionally left blank.

## 4.8 Integrated gNB-DU Requirements

# 16 This section intentionally left blank.
Copyright © 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V.


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG7.OMC-HRD-Opt7-2-R003-v04.00.md -->
---
title: "Technical Specification Hardware Reference Design Specification for Outdoor Micro Cell with Split Architecture Option 7.2"
---

# 8 Release x.y.z
where: x the first digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc. (the initial approved document will have x=01). y the second digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been incorporated in the document. z the third digit included only in working versions of the document indicating incremental changes during the editing process. This variable is for internal WG7 use only. The present document specifies system requirements and high-level architecture for the Outdoor Micro Cell for FR1 deployment scenario as specified in the Deployment Scenarios and Base Station Classes document [1]. In the main body of this specification (in any “chapter”) the information contained therein is informative, unless explicitly described as normative. Information contained in an “Annex” to this specification is always informative unless otherwise marked as normative.

## 1.2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this text, constitute provisions of the present document. [1] ORAN-WG7.DSC.0-V02.00 Technical Specification, ‘Deployment Scenarios and Base Station Classes for White Box Hardware’. https://www.o-ran.org/specifications [2] 3GPP TR 21.905: "Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications". [3] 3GPP TR 38.104: "NR; Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception". http://www.3gpp.org/ftp//Specs/archive/38_series/38.104/38104-g10.zip [4] ORAN-WG4.CUS.0-v05.00 Technical Specification, ‘O-RAN Fronthaul Working Group Control, User and Synchronization Plane Specification’. https://www.o-ran.org/specifications ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00 [5] 3GPP TS 38.113:"NR: Base Station (BS) Electromagnetic Compatibility (EMC)". http://www.3gpp.org/ftp//Specs/archive/38_series/38.113/38113-f80.zip [6] ORAN-WG7.OMC. HAR-v01.00 Technical Specification, ‘Outdoor Micro Cell Hardware Architecture and Requirement (FR1) Specification’. https://www.o-ran.org/specifications. [7] “Data Plane Development Kit”, https://www.dpdk.org/ [8] “Baseband Device Library”, https://doc.dpdk.org/guides/prog_guide/bbdev.html. [9] IEC 61169-54 International Standard, “Radio frequency connectors – Part 54: Sectional specification for coaxial connectors with 10 mm inner diameter of outer conductor, nominal characteristic impedance 50 Ohms, Series 4.3-10”, https://webstore.ansi.org/Standards/BSI/BSENIEC61169542021 [10] AISG 2.0, “Control interface for antenna line devices”, Antenna Interface Standards Group, June 2006. [11] https://www.rosenberger.com/0_documents/de/catalogs/ba_communication/catalog_coax/15_Chapter_43- 10_41-95.pdf (Accessed on March 30, 2022) [12] https://www.commscope.com/product-type/cable-assemblies/wireless-cable-assemblies/coaxial-cable- assemblies/itemmloc-f1xm-4 (Accessed on March 30, 2022) [13] Zhong, J., Liu, D., Li, Z., &amp; Sun, X, High thermal conductivity materials and their application on the electronic products. In 2012 IEEE Asia-Pacific Conference on Antennas and Propagation, pp. 173-175, August 2012. [14] https://www.engineersedge.com/heat_transfer/convective_heat_transfer_coefficients__13378.htm (Accessed on April 8, 2022) [15] https://www.thermoworks.com/emissivity-table/ (Accessed on April 8, 2022) [16] “Serial Interface for Data Converters”, JESD204C.1, December 2021, www.jedec.org [17] “JESD204x Frame Mapping Table Generator”, https://www.analog.com/en/license/licensing- agreement/jesd204x-frame-mapping-table-generator.html [18] AIB specification: https://github.com/chipsalliance/AIB-specification [19] BoW PHY specification: https://opencomputeproject.github.io/ODSA-BoW/bow_specification.html [20] Universal Chiplet Interconnect Express web site: https://www.uciexpress.org/ ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00

## 1.3 Definitions and Abbreviations

# 13 1.3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in [2] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, as in [2].

# 17 3GPP Third Generation Partnership Project

# 18 5G Fifth-Generation Mobile Communications
7-2 Fronthaul interface split option as defined by O-RAN WG4, also referred to as 7-2x

# 20 ACLR Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio

# 21 ADC Analog to Digital Converter

# 22 AGC Automatic Gain Control

# 23 AIB Advanced Interface Bus

# 24 AISG Antenna Interface Standards Group

# 25 ASIC Application Specific Integrated Circuit

# 26 BBDEV Baseband Device

# 27 BH Backhaul

# 28 BIOS Basic Input/Output System

# 29 BMC Baseboard Management Controller

# 30 BoW Bunch of Wires
ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00

# 3 C2C Chip to Chip Interface

# 4 CDR Clock and Data Recovery

# 5 CFR Crest Factor Reduction

# 6 CISPR International Special Committee on Radio Interference

# 7 CLB Configurable Logic Block

# 8 CPU Central Processing Unit

# 9 CRC Cyclic Redundancy Check

# 10 CU Centralized Unit as defined by 3GPP

# 11 DAC Digital to Analog Converter

# 12 DDC Digital Down Conversion

# 13 DDR Double Data Rate

# 14 DEVCLK Device Clock

# 15 DIMM Dual-Inline-Memory-Modules

# 16 D2D Die-to-Die Interface

# 17 DL Downlink

# 18 DMA Direct Memory Access

# 19 DPD Digital Pre-Distortion

# 20 DPDK Data Plane Development Kit

# 21 DPU Digital Processing Unit

# 22 DSP Digital Signal Processor

# 23 DU Distributed Unit as defined by 3GPP

# 24 DUC Digital Up Conversion

# 25 ECC Error Correcting Code
eCPRI evolved Common Public Radio Interface

# 27 EMC Electro Magnetic Compatibility

# 28 ENIAC Embedded NIC Inline Accelerator

# 29 EVM Error Vector Magnitude
ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00

# 3 FFT Fast Fourier Transform

# 4 FH Fronthaul

# 5 FHGW Fronthaul Gateway
FHGW Fronthaul gateway with no FH protocol translation, supporting an O-DU with split option x x and an O-RU with split option x, with currently available options 6 6, 7-2 7-2 and 8 8 FHGW Fronthaul Gateway that can translate fronthaul protocol from an O-DU with split option x to x→y an O-RU with split option y, with currently available option 7-2 8.

# 10 FHHL Full Height Half Length

# 11 FPGA Field Programmable Gate Array

# 12 GbE Gigabit Ethernet

# 13 GMC Grand Master Clock

# 14 GNSS Global Navigation Satellite System

# 15 GPIO General Purpose Input Output

# 16 GPP General Purpose Processor

# 17 GPS Global Positioning System

# 18 GUI Graphical User Interface

# 19 HAR Hardware Architecture Requirement

# 20 HARQ Hybrid Automatic Repeat request

# 21 HDD Hard Disk Drive

# 22 HHHL Half Height Half Length

# 23 HRD Hardware Reference Design

# 24 HW Hardware

# 25 I/O Input/Output

# 26 I2C Inter-Integrated Circuit (multi IC interface standard)

# 27 IEEE Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers

# 28 IFFT Inverse Fast Fourier Transform

# 29 IMC Integrated Memory Controller
ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00

# 3 KVM Kernel-based Virtual Machine

# 4 L1 Layer 1

# 5 L2 Layer 2

# 6 LDPC Low-Density Parity Codes

# 7 LNA Low Noise Amplifier

# 8 LRDIMM Load-Reduced Dual In-line Memory Module

# 9 LTE Long Term Evolution

# 10 LUT Look-up Table

# 11 MH Midhaul

# 12 NEBS Network Equipment-Building System

# 13 NFV Network Functions Virtualization

# 14 NIC Network Interface Controller

# 15 NR New Radio

# 16 OAM Operations, administration and management

# 17 O-CU O-RAN Centralized Unit as defined by O-RAN

# 18 OCXO Oven Controlled Crystal Oscillator
O-DU A specific O-RAN Distributed Unit having fronthaul split option x where x may be 6, 7-2 x

# 20 (as defined by WG4) or 8.

# 21 OMC Outdoor Microcell
O-RU A specific O-RAN Radio Unit having fronthaul split option x, where x is 6, 7-2 (as defined x by WG4) or 8, and which is used in a configuration where the fronthaul interface is the same at the O-DU . x

# 25 ORx Observation Receiver

# 26 PA Power Amplifier

# 27 PCH Platform Controller Hub

# 28 PCIe Peripheral Component Interface Express

# 29 PHC Physical Hardware Clock

# 30 PHY Physical Layer
ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00

# 3 PRACH Physical Random-Access Channel

# 4 PTP Precision Time Protocol

# 5 PWM Pulse Width Modulation

# 6 QSFP Quad Small Form-factor Pluggable

# 7 RAN Radio Access Network

# 8 RDIMM Registered Dual In-line Memory Module

# 9 RE Resource Element

# 10 RF Radio Frequency

# 11 RoE Radio over Ethernet

# 12 RU Radio Unit as defined by 3GPP

# 13 Rx Receiver

# 14 SDFEC Soft-Decision Forward Error Correction

# 15 SERDES Serializer / De-serializer

# 16 SFP Small Form-factor Pluggable

# 17 SFP+ Small Form-factor Pluggable plus

# 18 SMA Sub-Miniature Version A (connector)

# 19 SoC System On Chip

# 20 SPI Serial Peripheral Interface

# 21 SSD Solid State Drive

# 22 SyncE Synchronous Ethernet

# 23 TCXO Temperature Compensate Crystal Oscillator

# 24 TDD Time Division Duplex

# 25 TDP Thermal Design Power

# 26 TR Technical Report

# 27 TR Transmit Receive (switch)

# 28 TRx Transceiver

# 29 TS Technical Specification
ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00

# 3 UCIe Universal Chiplet Interface Express

# 4 UL Uplink

# 5 USB Universal Serial Bus

# 6 UTC Coordinate Universal Time

# 7 WG Working Group
Chapter 2 Hardware Reference Design 1 This chapter describes a white box hardware reference design example for outdoor Microcell deployment scenario. It includes O-CU and O-DU for OMC deployment scenario. 7-2

# 24 7-2
The O-DU white box hardware is the platform that performs the O- DU functions such as upper L1 and 7-2 7-2 lower L2 functions. The hardware systems specified in this document meet the computing, power and environmental requirements of use case’s configurations and feature sets of RAN physical node. These requirements are described in the early hardware requirement specification as well as in the use cases document. The O-DU hardware includes the chassis platform, mother board, peripheral devices and cooling devices. 7-2 The mother board contains processing unit, memory, the internal I/O interfaces, and external connection ports. The fronthaul and backhaul interface are used to carry the traffic between O-RU / FHGW / FHGW 7-2 7-2 7-2→8 and O-DU as well as O-CU and O-DU . The O-DU design may also provide an interface for hardware 7-2 7-2 7-2 accelerator if that option is preferred. The other hardware functional components include: the storage for ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00 software, hardware and system debugging interfaces, board management controller, just to name a few; the O- DU designer will make decision based on the specific needs of the implementation. 7-2 Note that the O-DU HW reference design is also feasible for O-CU and integrated O-CU / O-DU . 7-2 7-2

# 4 2.2.1 O-DU 7-2 High-Level Functional Block Diagram
Figure 2.2.1-1 shows the major functional blocks of O-DU . The digital processing unit handles the baseband 7-2 processing workload. To make the processing more efficient, an accelerator can be used to assist with the baseband workload processing. The memory devices include the random-access memory (RAM) for temporary storage of data while flash memory is used for codes and logs. The storage device is for persistent storage. The external network cards can be used for fronthaul or backhaul connection. The baseboard management controller (BMC) is a microcontroller which monitors hardware operation on motherboard. The clock circuits provide digital processing unit with required clock signals.

# 14 Figure 2.2.1-1 O-DU Functional Block Diagram
7-2

# 16 2.2.2 O-DU 7-2 Hardware Design Description
Figure 2.2.2-1 describes the various components and connections inside the O-DU white box. 7-2 ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00

# 11 2.2.3 O-DU 7-2 Hardware Components
In this section, we describe the details of the O-DU hardware component’s requirements, their features and 7-2 parameters. The component selection is based on the use case requirements which are listed in the hardware architecture and requirements document [6].

# 15 2.2.3.1 Digital Processing Unit
This example of the digital processing unit in O-DU is based on the General-Purpose Processor (GPP). 7-2

# 18 2.2.3.1.1 Digital Processing Unit Requirements

# 19 The GPP requirements are listed in Table 2.2.3-1.
ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00

# 3 2.2.3.1.1.1 Interfaces
The interface specifications on the main board are described in the sections below.

# 5 2.2.3.1.1.1.1 Memory Channel Interfaces
The system memory capacity, type and related information are described in Table 2.2.3-2.

# 7 Table 2.2.3-2 Memory Channel Feature List
Item Name Description Memory Types DDR4 # of Memory Channels 4 ECC LRDIMM Up to 512GB ECC RDIMM Up to 256GB Memory Speed 2666/2400/2133MHz DIMM Sizes 128GB, 64GB, 32GB, 16GB Memory Voltage 1.2 V

# 8 2.2.3.1.1.1.2 PCIe
PCIe Gen 3 should be supported by the processor. There are total of 32 PCIe lanes with 128 Gb/s bandwidth. The 32 PCIe lanes can be divided into two x16 slots by using a riser card.

# 11 2.2.3.1.1.1.3 Ethernet
The system should be capable to offer aggregated 48 Gb/s Ethernet bandwidth. The breakout the ports are discussed in later section. When higher Ethernet bandwidth required, an Ethernet card can be installed in one of the PCIe slot.

# 15 2.2.3.1.2 Digital Processing Unit Design
The digital processing unit is a system-on-a-chip (SoC) device which is a 64-bit multi-core server class processor. This SoC includes an integrated Platform Controller Hub (PCH), integrated high-speed I/O, Integrated Memory Controllers (IMC), and four integrated 10 Gigabit Ethernet ports. ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00 The SoC supports 512-bit wide vector processing instruction set. It also supports hardware virtualization to enable dynamic provisioning of services as communication service providers extend network functions virtualization (NFV). Figure 2.2.2-1 shows the major functional blocks of the digital processing unit.

# 4 2.2.3.2 Hardware Accelerator
Hardware accelerators can be used in O-DU to offload computationally intensive functions and to optimize 7-2 the performance under varying traffic and loading conditions. While the hardware acceleration functional requirements and implementation are system designer’s choice; however, the O-DU is required to meet the 7-2 minimum system performance requirements under various loading conditions and deployment scenarios. In most cases, a Field Programmable Gate Array (FPGA) or Application Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC) based PCIe card can be used to optimize the system performance. The FPGA(s) are part of a Network Interface

# 11 Controller (NIC) that further provides connectivity services.

# 12 2.2.3.2.1 Accelerator Design Solution 1
Channel coding for Low-Density Parity Codes (LDPC) and fronthaul compression requires a significant amount of bit level processing and is well suited to a fine-grained FPGA architecture and/or low cost/power structured ASIC. Options include:
- Virtualization: Multi-channel DMA, Virtual machine integration, load balancing functions
- Look-aside FEC: LDPC (de)coding, Polar (de)coding, Rate (De)Matcher, (De) Interleaver, Cyclic
Redundancy Check (CRC), Hybrid Automatic Repeat request (HARQ) retransmission
- Bump-in-wire Fronthaul: compression / decompression for latency and bandwidth reduction

# 21 2.2.3.2.1.1 Accelerator Requirements
Hardware and firmware requirements for this accelerator design are given in Table 2.2.3-3 and Table 2.2.3-4, respectively. ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00

# 3 Table 2.2.3-4 Accelerator Firmware Feature List
Item Name Description Remote system upgrade Securely upgradable FPGA flash image Queuing 64 Queues supported equally split between UL & DL. LDPC Acceleration NR LDPC Encoding with, interleaving and rate-matching. NR LDPC Decoding with sub-block de-interleaving function of reverse rate matching. Early Termination, CRC attachment and HARQ buffering. 5G Throughput: DL 14.8Gbps, UL 3.2Gbps Load Balancing (channel coding) Load balancer distributes the pending encoder/decoder requests to encoder/decoders Descriptor Format (channel Code block-based interface. coding) Software enablement by BBDEV API (DPDK) [7], [8] Fronthaul Compression In-line compression/decompression for Mu-Law, block-floating point and quantization according to the O-RAN WG4 specification. Open programmable Support for: acceleration environment • FPGA Flashing upgrade
- Firmware version reporting
- PCIe diagnostics
- Ethernet diagnostics
- Temperature and voltage telemetry information
ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00

# 3 Accelerator Design 1 with optional NIC Device.
Figure 2.2.3-1 Accelerator Design 1 without optional NIC Device Figure 2.2.3-2 Accelerator Design 1 with optional NIC Device

# 10 2.2.3.2.2 Accelerator Design Solution 2
Channel coding for LDPC and fronthaul compression requires a significant amount of bit level processing and is well suited to a fine-grained structured ASIC. Features include:
- Virtualization: Multi-channel DMA, Virtual machine integration, load balancing functions
- Look-aside FEC: Turbo (de)coding, LDPC (de)coding, Rate (De)Matcher, (De) Interleaver, CRC, HARQ
retransmission & (de) interleaver. ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00

# 4 Table 2.2.3-5 Accelerator Hardware Feature List
Item Name Description PCIe Gen3 x16 Form factor HHHL DDR DDR4 (64-bit +ECC), 2667Mbps Interface for HARQ buffering Board Management Controller Telemetry, Security. Power <35W

# 7 Table 2.2.3-6 Accelerator Firmware Feature List
Item Name Description Queuing 64 Queues supported equally split between UL & DL. LDPC Acceleration NR LDPC Encoding with, interleaving and rate-matching. NR LDPC Decoding with sub-block de-interleaving function of reverse rate matching. Early Termination, CRC attachment and HARQ buffering. 5G Throughput: DL 23Gbps, UL 8Gbps Load Balancing (channel coding) Load balancer distributes the pending encoder/decoder requests to encoder/decoders Descriptor Format (channel Code block and transport block-based interface. coding) Software enablement by BBDEV API (DPDK) [7], [8]

# 9 2.2.3.2.2.2 Accelerator Design
The following diagram shows the structured ASIC based accelerator design.

# 12 Figure 2.2.3-3 Structured ASIC Accelerator Design
ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00

# 8 2.2.3.2.3.1 Accelerator Hardware Features

# 9 Table 2.2.3-7 Accelerator Hardware Features
Item Name Description SoC Resources FPGA 1 FPGA 2 System Logic cells - 930K System Logic cells - 1,143K CLB LUT - 425K CLB LUT - 523K SDFEC -8 CLB Flip-Flops -1,045K DSP Slices - 4,272 DSP Slices - 1,968 BRAM - 38.0Mb BRAM - 34.6Mb URAM - 22.5Mb URAM - 36.0Mb Form Factor FHHL PCIe Form Factor PCIe Interface Gen 3 x16 with Bifurcation On Board Memory FPGA1 FPGA2 Total Capacity 4 GB in Total Capacity 4 GB in Programmable Logic, Programable Logic, upgradeable upgradeable to 8GB to 8GB Total Capacity 2 GB in Total Capacity 2 GB in Programmable Subsystem, Programmable Subsystem, upgradeable to 4GB upgradeable to 4GB Network Interface(s) 2xSFP28 optical interfaces to FPGA2 (User Configurable, includes 10/25 Ethernet) Other External Interface(s) Micro USB for JTAG support (FPGA programming and debug) and access to BMC Graphical User interface GUI for monitoring the basic board parameters, monitoring temperature alerts, firmware upgrades for BMC Board Management Controller Telemetry, Security, Remote Upgrade Clocking O-RAN C1, C2, C3, C4 Fronthaul eCPRI, RoE IEEE1914.3, O-RAN WG4 FH GPS GPS SMA for 1 PPS (In/Out) Operating Temperature NEBS Compliant Power < 75 W Clocking Options Low-Jitter, configurable clock ranging from10MHz to 750MHz PPS input and output with assembly option for OCXO and TCXO ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00

# 11 Figure 2.2.3-4 Dual-chip FPGA-based Hardware Acceleration in O-DU
7-2 ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00

# 9 2.2.3.2.4.1 Accelerator Hardware Features

# 10 Table 2.2.3-9 Accelerator Hardware Features
Item Name Description SoC Resources System Logic cells - 930K CLB LUT - 425K SDFEC -8 DSP Slices - 4,272 BRAM - 38.0Mb URAM - 22.5Mb Form Factor HHHL PCIe Form Factor PCIe Interface Gen 3 x16 (Gen4 x8) On Board Memory Total Capacity 4 GB in Programmable Logic, upgradeable to 8GB Total Capacity 2 GB in Processor Subsystem, upgradeable to 4GB Other External Interface(s) Micro USB for JTAG support (FPGA programming and debug) and access to BMC Graphical User interface GUI for monitoring the basic board parameters, monitoring temperature alerts, firmware upgrades for BMC Board Management Controller Telemetry, Security, Remote Upgrade Operating Temperature NEBS Compliant Power < 35 W ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00

# 6 CPU.

# 9 Figure 2.2.3-5 Single-chip FPGA-based Hardware Acceleration in O-DU
7-2

# 11 2.2.3.2.5 Accelerator Design Solution 5
This design includes an Embedded NIC Inline Accelerator (ENIAC) with an ASIC that is capable of providing NIC functions. One option supports a high-capacity O-DU using multiple PCIe cards in standard racks and aligns with the FAPI interface to maximize software reuse. The second option supports a high-capacity O-DU using an Ethernet-based backplane interconnect and aligns with the nFAPI interface to maximize software reuse. ENIAC unloads L1 from the host, allowing it to focus on L2. E th Fe 1 In rn e te rfa c e t (1 0 / 2 5 G ) X ( L o r A R

# C P
a n d P MUa r
- b
t ia a s l L e d )

# P C Ie

# P C Ie
G e n 3 Inx

# 0 G
n 4 x 8 ( L 1

# F P
O

# G A fflo a d )
ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00

# 5 Table 2.2.3-11 Accelerator Hardware Feature List]
Item Name Description PCIe (Interface with digital Gen4 x16 (and lower) processing unit） Form factor FHHL Connectivity QSFP28/SFP NIC Device 100Gb xHAUL for FH, BH & MH traffic shaping. DDR Main Min 4 GB DDR4 Flash (FPGA images) >=1 Gbit BMC Telemetry, Security, remote upgrade Clocking For O-RAN C1, C2, C3 & C4 Fronthaul eCPRI, RoE IEEE1914.3, O-RAN WG4 GPS SMA for 1 PPS & 10MHz (in/out) Operating Temperature NEBS Compliant (ambient) Power <75W Clock Accuracy Low-Jitter, configurable clock ranging from 10MHz to 750MHz. Option for OCXO (TCXO as standard)

# 7 Table 2.2.3-12 Accelerator Firmware Feature List
Item Name Description Remote system upgrade Securely upgradable image Queuing Command queuing at FAPI interface LDPC Acceleration Rel15 compliant Fronthaul Compression In-line compression/decompression for Mu-Law, block-floating point and quantization according to the O-RAN WG4 specification. Open programmable Support for: acceleration environment • Flashing upgrade
- Firmware version reporting
- PCIe diagnostics
- Ethernet diagnostics
- Temperature and voltage telemetry information.

# 9 2.2.3.2.5.2 Accelerator Design
Figure 2.2.3-6 illustrates Accelerator Design 5 with integrated NIC and PCIe connectivity to L2. Figure 2.2.3-7 illustrates Accelerator Design 5 with integrated NIC and Ethernet connectivity to L2. ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00

# 5 Figure 2.2.3-7 Accelerator Design Using Ethernet

# 7 2.2.3.3 Baseboard Management Controller
BMC is used to perform hardware power control (power on, power off and power cycle), monitor hardware status (temperatures, voltages, etc), monitor Basic I/O System (BIOS)/ Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI) firmware status, and log system events. It provides remote access via shared or dedicated NIC. System user can do console access via serial or physical/Kernel-based Virtual Machine (KVM). The BMC has dedicated RAM and flash memory. It provides access via serial port or Ethernet port. Figure 2.2.2-1 describes the BMC connections with related components. P r o T

# F A P I o

# C Ie 4 x

# P P S

# O - R A N

# P R I F H
G b p s S y n Q E t c E - S h F e x P r n e t L2 Processing FAPI on Ethernet L1 Upper Phy Accelerator

# 8 Layer MIMO O-RAN 7-2x
Embedded NIC with eCPRI eCPRI FH QSFP28

# 100 Gbps Ethernet
Timing PPS SyncE

# 10 MHz
ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00

# 4 2.2.4.2 Hardware Requirements

# 5 The O-DU shall support following timing synchronization methods:
7-2

# 6 1. GNSS Synchronization
2. Ethernet based IEEE1588V2 Synchronization 3. GNSS and IEEE1588 switching

# 9 2.2.4.3 Hardware Design
Depending on the timing distribution topologies used, the O-DU system clock is able to synchronize with 7-2 the Grand Master Clock (GMC) using IEEE1588 via either the front haul NIC or backhaul NIC or synchronizing timing using Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS). In the case of IEEE1588, the Physical Hardware Clock (PHC) within the NIC is synchronized with the GMC first, then the O-DU system clock is 7-2 synchronized with the PHC. The O-DU is also capable to provide a clock to the O-RU via front haul if 7-2 7-2 needed. When GNSS becomes available to O-DU , it will be able to synchronize the system clock to 7-2 Coordinated Universal Time (UTC). Figure 2 7 outlines the O-DU timing synchronization mechanisms. 7-2

# 18 Figure 2.2.4-1 O-DU Timing Synchronization

# 20 2.2.5 External Interface Ports

# 21 The external interfaces of O-DU are described below.
7-2

# 22 2.2.5.1 Hardware Requirements
The following table shows the external ports or slots that the system provides. ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00

# 3 2.2.5.2 Hardware Design
The digital processing unit is a SoC device which provides the external ports described in the hardware requirement section. The system includes 2 USB 3.0 ports, and the serial RS232 port that can be used for Console Redirection, e.g. Out-of-Band Management. The system provides eight 1Gbps and four 10Gbps Ethernet ports. There are two or four 25G eCPRI ports in system depends on the accelerator card used. The system also provides a RF interface to connect GNSS antenna. The following diagram outlines the external interfaces that supported.

# 11 Figure 2.2.5-1 External Interface Reference Design

# 13 2.2.6 O-DU Firmware
BIOS and BMC firmware are needed in the system and shall be installed.

# 15 2.2.7 Mechanical
The mechanical design for mother board, chassis, and cooling are listed in this section.

# 17 2.2.7.1 Mother Board
The mechanical layout of the mother board shows the location of major components and interface ports. The following diagram also provides the dimension of the board. ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00

# 3 .

# 4 2.2.7.2 Chassis
The 1U rack mount chassis contains the layout of the power supply, Solid State Drive (SSD) and fans. The chassis dimension is showed in following figure. ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00

# 4 2.2.7.3 Cooling
The system installs 4x 40x28mm PWM fans for the cooling. Up to 6 fans can be installed if needed.

# 7 2.2.8 Power Unit
In a fully loaded system with two PCIe slots populated with 75W each, the system power consumption should be less than 400W. The total system power requirement shall be kept less than 80% of the power supply capacity.

# 11 2.2.8.1 Hardware Requirements
The O-DU requires a 500W high-efficiency power supply with Power Management Bus (PMBus) 1.2 capability. The required power input range and output power rails are listed in the table below.

# 14 Table 2.2.8-1 Power Supply Rail Requirements
Item Name Description AC Input 100-240V, 50-60Hz, 6.6A max DC Output +3.3V: 12A +5V: 15A +5V standby: 3A +12V: 41A -12V: 0.2A ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00

# 5 Table 2.2.8-2 Power Supply Unit Feature List
Item Name Description Output connectors 24pin/8pin/4+4pin/HDD/I2C Dimension (W x D x H) 3.9 x 7.1 x 1.6 inch Maximum Output Power +3.3V: 12A +5V: 15A +12V: 41A -12V: 0.2A +5Vsb: 3A Rated Input Voltage/Current 100-240Vac / 6.6A max Rated Input Frequency 50-60HZ Inrush current Less than 30A

# 7 2.2.9 Thermal
Active cooling with up to 6 fans is integrated in the chassis. The hardware acceleration cards described in 2.2.3.2 use passive cooling and a custom heatsink and is equipped with temperature sensors. It is designed to operate in temperatures ranging from -5°C to +55°C.

# 11 2.2.10 Environmental and Regulations
The O-DU hardware system is RoHS Compliant. The power supply unit is EMC FCC/CISPR Class B 7-2 compliant. Table 2 10 lists the environmental related features and parameters.

# 14 Table 2.2.10-1 Environmental Features
Item Name Description Operating Temperature -5°C to +55°C Non-operating Temperature -40°C to 70°C Operating Relative Humidity 8% to 90% (non-condensing) Non-operating Relative Humidity 5% to 95% (non-condensing) The hardware accelerator described in 2.2.3.2 is designed to operate in indoor environments and in temperatures ranging from -5°C to +55°C. ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00

## 2.3 O-RU Hardware Reference Design

# 5 2.3.1 O-RU 7-2 High-Level Functional Block Diagram
Figure 2.3.1-1 provides a high-level functional block diagram depicting the major HW/SW components. It also highlights the internal/external interfaces that are required. This document shows how to implement the system defined by the OMC-HAR [6] document. TO o / F
- D
rU o m -2 F

# O - R A N

# G N S S
(o p tio n a Lo c a l tim in g fro m G N S S o e q u iv a le n t

# O - R U 7
OP c e Lo c a l tim in g fro m C D R l) r -2
- R
r o cU Aen N F H s s in it g P T P r im o D ig it a o c e s s U n it in g U w e r U l in n n g it it P r o cU Ren F s sit in g TA on / Ft e r on mn a

# 10 Figure 2.3.1-1 High-Level Functional Block Diagram

# 12 2.3.2 O-RU 7-2 Hardware Components
Figure 2.3.2-1 shows a 4T4R implementation and Figure 2.3.2-2 shows an 8T8R implementation. In each of these diagrams, the Digital Processing Unit is further detailed in 2.2.3.1. Items under the umbrella of RF Processing Unit, including the Transceiver, RFFE and other RF items are reviewed in additional detail in 2.3.2.2. Clock and Synchronization are reviewed in 2.3.2.3. The Power Unit is detailed in 2.3.6. ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00 Tx Rx enable enable bypass enable Rx0 RFFE Tx0 PA enable SERDES Digital Processing Unit ORx0 ORx1 SPI Tx1 PA enable RFFE Network SPI Clean Clock Clock Rx1 bypass enable Clock Transceiver Port A bypass enable Rx0 RFFE Tx0 enable PA Synchronizer TRx ORx0 Reference ORx1 Tx1 enable PA RFFE bypass enable Power Unit Rx1 Figure 2.3.2-1 4T4R General Block Diagram with full RF front end ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00 Figure 2.3.2-2 8T8R General Block Diagram with RF front end Figure 2.3.2-3 shows an example of an high-level block details of an O-RU Hardware implementation. The description of each block from left to right is given below. C lo ck D ig Tx enable ita l P ro ce ssin g U n it Network SPI Clock S y n ch P o w e r U n it Rx enable Clean Clock ro n ize r SERDES SPI T ra n TRx Reference T ra n TRx Reference sce sce iv iv e e r r Rx0 Tx0 ORx0 ORx1 Tx1 Rx1 Rx0 Tx0 ORx0 ORx1 Tx1 Rx1 Rx0 Tx0 ORx0 ORx1 Tx1 Rx1 Rx0 Tx0 ORx0 ORx1 Tx1 Rx1 bypass bypass bypass bypass bypass bypass bypass bypass RFFE RFFE RFFE RFFE RFFE RFFE RFFE RFFE enable PA PA enable enable PA PA enable enable PA PA enable enable PA PA enable enable enable enable enable enable enable enable enable P P o o rt A rt A ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00 An O-RU communicate with the O-DU through the O-RAN Fronthaul interface and the control/data 7-2 7-2 packets are processed by the O-RAN Fronthaul unit with the help of the CUS plane processing block. Subsequently the packets are processed by the low-PHY functional blocks such as encoding, scrambling, modulation, layer mapping, precoding, beamforming, and resource element mapping in the downlink. Exactly the reverse operation is done during the uplink process. The output of the low-PHY block is fed to the digital processing unit through packet interface. Here the frequency conversion in digital domain i.e., digital up conversion (DUC) in DL and digital down conversion (DDC) in UL are done. Furthermore, DPD and CFR algorithms are implemented in the digital processing unit to enhance the power amplifier efficiency by reducing the PAPR/ACLR in the RF front end. The output of digital processing unit is fed to the RF processing unit through the digital interface. The digital signals are converted to analog in the DL and vice versa in the UL with the help of DAC and ADC functional blocks in the Transceiver unit, respectively. The signals are further amplified with the help of functional blocks like the PA in DL and LNA in UL both of which are part of the analog RF front end unit. The output of the power amplifier is fed to cavity filter to suppress the unwanted signals in DL and is done before amplification in the case of UL operation i.e., receive operation to improve selectivity. The TDD switch is used to switch the operation between DL and UL, i.e., transmit and receive operations. The output of the cavity filter is fed to antenna unit and then transmitted over the air. The processing units such as FH, Digital, and RF powered from the power unit and clocking and synchronization is provided from the timing/synchronization block. In the case of a beamforming scenarios, antenna calibration is implemented using the antenna calibration processing block. This coordinates with the low-PHY processing unit and calibration switch (Cal switch) and process the signals coming from and going to the antenna calibration port to compensate the amplitude and phase offsets existing in each RF chain. Other implementations are also possible by rearranging the functional blocks of O-RAN FH, Digital processing, and

# 23 RF processing units.

# 26 Figure 2.3.2-3 O-RU Architecture Example Implementation 1

# 28 2.3.2.1 Digital Processing Unit
The digital processing unit of the O-RU performs the fronthaul interface, lower L1, Synchronization, RF 7-2 interface, antenna calibration, digital beamforming and OAM. The following block diagram describes the digital processing unit as per example implementation in ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00 Figure 2.3.2-4 Digital Processing Unit Block Diagram (L1 Processing + optional Beamforming) B P o o t F la s

# D D R

# O A M
D ig ita l ro c e ss in h g e C P R I/ C P R I

# C P U

# F P G A / A S IC

# D F E
C

# J E S D 2
lo c k &

# 0 4 B / C
C o n t r o l C D loS

# F E
c k & y n c

# 6 Figure 2.3.2-5 Digital Processing Unit Block Diagram (DFE)

# 8 2.3.2.1.1 FPGA/ASIC Solution
This solution for the digital processing unit is based on an FPGA with embedded ARM processor.

# 10 2.3.2.1.1.1 FPGA Specifications
Table 2.3.2-2 shows the general interfaces required for an FPGA based design based on Figure 2.3.2-4 and

# 12 Figure 2.3.2-5.
ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00

# 3 2.3.2.1.1.2 FPGA Design
Table 2.3.2-2 shows the general blocks required for the design. The core elements implemented in this design are required to be sized to support the requirements shown in the OMC-HAR [6] document. Specifically, the DPU should support up to 200 MHz of occupied BW with up to two 100 MHz component carriers. In addition to signal processing, the DPU should support C, U, S and M plane handling. Major processing blocks in the

# 8 DPU are shown in Table 2.3.2-2.
ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00

# 3 2.3.2.2 RF Processing Unit
The RF Processing Unit of O-RU includes the power amplifier (PA), low noise amplifier (LNA), Tx/Rx 7-2 filters and conversion between analog and digital domain. Physical and logical partitioning within the RF processing unit need not occur at any specific boundary.

# 7 2.3.2.2.1 Transceiver Reference Design
For the O-RU the sampling function and frequency conversion function is performed by transceiver. The 7-2 purpose of the transceiver is to translate the RF signal to digital as early as possible in the signal chain and to reduce the data rate as low as possible to save power. The Transceiver is to convert between high-speed baseband data and a low-level RF for both transmit and receive signal chain. The transceiver may be responsible for orchestration of external gain control elements in both the receive and transmit paths. Other radio functions may need to be controlled by the FPGA/ASIC where they need to be control fast and synchronized with the TDD frame structure. Such elements include the transmit / receive switch, PA and LNA enable.

# 16 2.3.2.2.1.1 Hardware Specifications

# 17 2.3.2.2.1.1.1 Interface

# 18 Table 2.3.2-3 RF Processing Unit Interface Specifications
Item Name Description High Speed Data (SERDES High speed data represents the baseband information being transmitted Out, SERDES In) or received. Depending on the configuration of the ORAN device, various bandwidths may be supported leading to a range of payload ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00 rates. Options for data include JESD204B and JESD204C. Up to 8 lanes in each direction may be supported although fewer is preferred. Options such as DPD and numeric precision will impact the payload rate. Several options are shown in the following table. All data represents IQ 16-bit (N=16) precision. Some devices support IQ 12 bit (N’=12) which may reduce the required data rates accordingly. Reference Clock (REF Clock The transceiver should receive a reference for internal clock and LO In) synthesis needs. This reference clock can function as the JESD204 Device Clock where the interface is by SERDES. The specific clock frequency is determined by the operation mode of the transceiver. SYSREF If the transceiver supports SERDES, then it should accept a SYSREF signal from the clock or data source as appropriate. The number and configuration for the SYSREF is dependent on the operating mode of the transceiver. SYNC\ If the transceiver supports SERDES, then it should also support a SYNCB for each link as appropriate. Control (SCLK, CSB, SDO, Control of the transceiver is by way of 3 or 4 wire SPI or I2C functioning SDIO, etc) as a slave. Support for 1.8V control is required and tolerance of 3.3V is preferred. The transceiver may optionally include a separate SPI master for control of peripheral devices as required. GPIO (GPIO 1 – GPIO #) The transceiver may optionally include GPIO for controlling peripherals including but not limited to PAs, LNAs and other devices. These GPIOs should at a minimum support 1.8V outputs but the specifics will be determined by the connected devices. The GPIO should also support input from peripheral devices. Input should at a minimum support 1.8V logic with tolerance of 3.3V preferred. Tx Enable The transceiver should provide an output to support enabling and disabling the external devices in the transmit chain such as a TxVGA (optional) and PA. This may be part of the GPIO pins. Rx Enable The transceiver should provide an output to support enabling and disabling the external devices in the transmit chain such as a RF Front End Module or LNA. This may be part of the GPIO pins. LNA Bypass The transceiver should provide an output to support bypassing the LNA appropriately in the condition of a large blocker if so required. This may be part of the GPIO pins. RF Outputs (Tx1 – Tx4) RF outputs including the main Tx signal should support 50 ohm or 100 ohms signalling. These outputs can be either single ended or differential. RF Inputs (Rx1 – Rx4 & ORx 1 RF inputs including the main Rx and the Observation Rx (ORx) (for DPD) – ORx4) should support 50 ohm or 100 ohms signalling. These inputs can be either single ended or differential. The device should support at least 1 ORx. ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00

# 3 2.3.2.2.1.1.2 Algorithm
The transceiver is required to provide appropriate algorithms to sustain RF operation including but not limited to Rx AGC, Tx Power control, DPD and CFR.

# 6 2.3.2.2.1.1.3 Device Configuration
The transceiver should support either 4T4R or 8T8R. In addition, at least one ORx path should be provided to support DPD functionality.

# 9 2.3.2.2.1.1.4 Power Dissipation
Total dissipation of the TRx should be less than 6W for 4T4R.

# 11 2.3.2.2.1.1.5 RF Specifications

# 12 Table 2.3.2-5 Transceiver RF Specifications
Parameter Symbol Min Typ Max Unit Test Condition/Comment Transmitters Center Frequency 650 6000 MHz Transmitter 450 MHz Synthesis Bandwidth Transmitter Large 200 MHz Signal Bandwidth Transmitter 0 32 dB Signal to noise ratio (SNR) Attenuator Power maintained for attenuation Control Range between 0 and 20 dB Transmitter 0.05 dB 20 MHz LTE/NR at -12 dBFS Attenuation Power Control Resolution Adjacent Channel -66 dB 75 MHz <f≤2800 MHz Leakage Ratio (ACLR) In Band Noise Floor -154.5 dBm/Hz 0 dB attenuation; in band noise falls 1 dB for each dB of attenuation for attenuation between 0 dB and 20 dB Out of Band Noise -153 dBm/Hz 600 MHz < f ≤ 3000 MHz Floor ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00 Parameter Symbol Min Typ Max Unit Test Condition/Comment Maximum Output 6 dBm 0 dB attenuation; 3 × Power bandwidth/2 offset Third Order Output OIP3 27 dBm 600 MHz < f ≤ 3000 MHz Intermodulation Intercept Point Error Vector EVM Magnitude (3GPP Test Signals)

# 1900 MHz LO 0.6 % 50 kHz RF PLL loop bandwidth

# 3800 MHz LO 0.53 % 300 kHz RF PLL loop bandwidth
Observation ORx Receivers Center Frequency 450 6000 MHz Gain Range 30 dB IIP3 improves dB for dB for the first 18 dB of gain attenuation; QEC performance optimized for 0 dB to 6 dB of attenuation only. Analog Gain Step 0.5 dB For attenuation steps from 0 dB to 6 dB Receiver 450 MHz Bandwidth Maximum Usable P -11 dBm 0 dB attenuation; increases dB for HIGH Input Level dB with attenuation. Integrated Noise -58.7 dBFS 450 MHz Integration bandwidth -57.5 dBFS 491.52 MHz Integration bandwidth Third Order Input IIP3 Intermodulation Intercept Point Narrow Band Maximum observation receiver gain; test condition: PHIGH-11 dB/tone

# 1900 MHz 15 dBm

# 2600 MHz 16.5 dBm

# 3800 MHz 18 dBm
Wide Band IM3 products>130 MHz at baseband; test condition: P - HIGH dB/tone; 491.52 MSPS

# 1900 MHz 13 dBm

# 2600 MHz 11 dBm

# 3800 MHz 13 dBm
Third Order IM3 -70 dBc 600 MHz < f ≤ 3000 MHz Intermodulation Product ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00 Parameter Symbol Min Typ Max Unit Test Condition/Comment Spurious Free SFDR 64 dB Non IMx related spurs, does not Dynamic Range include HDx; (P − 11) dB input HIGH signal Harmonic (P − 11) dB input signal HIGH Distortion Second Order HD2 -80 dBc In band HD falls within ±100 MHz Harmonic Distortion Product -73 dBc Out of band HD falls within ±225 MHz Third Order HD3 -70 dBc In band HD falls within ±100 MHz Harmonic Distortion Product -65 dBc Out of band HD falls within ±225 MHz Receivers Center Frequency 6000 MHz Analog Gain Step 30 dB Attenuator steps from 0 dB to 6 dB dB Attenuator steps from 6 dB to 30 dB Receiver 200 MHz bandwidth Maximum Usable P 0 dB attenuation; increase dB for HIGH Input Level dB with attenuation; continuous wave = 1800 MHz; corresponds to -1 dBFS at ADC -11 dBm 75 MHz <f≤3000 MHz Noise Figure NF 0 dB attenuation at receiver port dB 600 MHz <f≤3000 MHz Input Third Order IIP3 Intercept Point Difference Product IIP3, d Two (P − 9) dB tones near HIGH band edge

# 2600 MHz 17 dBm
(Wideband)

# 2600 MHz 21 dBm
(Midband) Sum Product IIP3, s Two (P − 9) dB tones, at HIGH bandwidth/6 offset from the LO

# 2600 MHz 20 dBm
(Wideband) HD3 HD3 (P − 6) dB continuous wave HIGH tone at bandwidth/6 offset from the LO -66 dBc 600 MHz < f ≤ 4800 MHz ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00

# R E F C lo c k

# S Y S R E In t L O /C lo c k F
In R x4R T x4T

# O R x 1

# O R x 2

# O R x 3

# O R x 4
x3R x3T x2R x2T x1 x1 R T C lo c k , S y n c h ro n iz a tio n & S y n th e s is e c e iv e r B lo c k 4 R e c e iv e r B lo c k 3 R e c e iv e r B lo c k 2 R e c e iv e r B lo c k 1 ra n s m it B lo c k 4 T ra n s m it B lo c k 3 T ra n s m it B lo c k 2 T ra n s m it B lo c k 1 O b s erv atio n R e c e iv e r A D D A CA CD D A CA CD D A CA CD A D A D C C C D D e e D e c im a tio n pDFeIcRim a tio n

# A G CpDFeIcRim a tio n
T u n inAgG CpDFeIcRim a tio n

# R STSuIn inAgG Cp F IR
O v e rloR aSdTSuIn inAgG C v ic e M aO nvaegrleoRmaSdeTSnuItn in g D e v ic e M aO nvaegrleoRmaSdeSnIt D e v ic e M aO nvaegrleoma de n t D e v ic e M a n a g e m e In te rp o la tio n IpnFteIRrp o la tio n T u n iInpngFteIRrp o la tio n v ic e M a Tn au ng eiInpnmgFteeIRrnpto la tio n D e v ic e M a Tn au ng einpmgF eIRn t D e v ic e M a Tn au ng einmg e n t D e v ic e M a n a g e m e

# D P D E n g in e
D e c im a tio n p F IR

# A G C
T u n in g

# R S S I
O v e rlo a d D e v ic e M a n a g e m e n t n t n t

# S P I P o rt
C o n tro l In te rfa c e

# J E S D 2 0 4 B /C S e ria l In te rfa c e
S S S

# S C L K

# C S B

# S D O

# S D IO

# C P IO 1

# G P IO 2

# G P IO 3

# G P IO #

# E R D E S
O u t

# S Y N C \

# O U T

# 8 Figure 2.3.2-6 Transceiver with Integrated CFR and DPD
ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00

# 3 2.3.2.2.2.1.1 Interface

# 4 Table 2.3.2-6 Power Amplifier Interface Specifications
Item Name Description RF Enable The enable input should be compatible with 1.8V logic and tolerate 3.3V as required. A logic high enables the PA. A logic low disables the device and places it in a minimum dissipation mode. RF Output RF outputs support 50-ohm single ended to properly interface to a directional coupler, isolator, switch or antenna. RF Input RF inputs should support 50-ohm, single ended match to the transceiver output or preamp.

# 5 2.3.2.2.2.1.2 Power Specifications
RF output power required is nominally 10 W (40 dBm). DC power is driven by efficiency of the PA and should not be more than 27W and the efficiency should be greater than 37%.

# 8 2.3.2.2.2.1.3 RF Specifications
The PA and driver should have enough gain to boost the transceiver output to the rated power level. The output power should be at least 10W (40 dBm) including the loss of the circulator and antenna filter. The ACLR with DPD and CFR should be better than 47dBc according to the related 3GPP test models.

# 12 Table 2.3.2-7 Power Amplifier RF Specifications
Item Name n 77, 48 n 41 Gain >60 dB including driver To be provided in next version P3dB 51 dBm Input Return Loss <-15 dB Output Return Loss <-15 dB Switching Speed <1uS HD2 >28 dBc HD3 >30 dBc

# 13 2.3.2.2.2.2 Hardware Design
RFin is the input of the PA, RFout is the output of the PA. Vdd and Vbias is the power input of the PA. PA enable is the control pin to disable or enable the PA. The input and output should be matched to 50 ohms to optimize return loss as much as possible. Proper decoupling shall be provided to minimize impact of supply ripple on the RF output. ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00

# R F e n
V d d V b ia s

# R F o u t

# 4 2.3.2.2.3 Low Noise Amplifier (LNA) Reference Design

# 5 2.3.2.2.3.1.1 Interface

# 6 Table 2.3.2-8 LNA Interfaces
Item Name Description Enable The enable input should be compatible with 1.8V logic and tolerate 3.3V as required. A logic high enables the LNA. A logic low disables the device and places it in a minimum dissipation mode. LNA Bypass The LNA Bypass skips the second stage LNA effectively reducing the overall gain. This would be selected when the input signal compromises the linearity of the amplifier. RF Out RF outputs support 50-ohm single ended to properly interface to the RF filtering and Rx input port of transceiver. TR Switch The TR switch is used to shunt any reflected RF power that reaches the LNA to a shunt load during the transmit period. RF Input RF inputs should support 50-ohm, single ended match to circulator. Termination This RF output port shunts any reflected transmit power to an appropriate load during the Transmit period to protect the input of the LNA.

# 8 2.3.2.2.3.1.2 Power Specifications

# 9 DC power per channel should not exceed 0.5W.
ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00

# 4 2.3.2.2.3.2 Hardware Design
Figure 2.3.2-8 shows the configuration for a dual-stage LNA. The RF inputs and outputs should be properly matched to optimize the noise performance and flatness of the amplifier. The input switch is used to forward any reflected transmit energy to an external load during the transmit period to protect the LNA from damage. The DC supply voltage, VCC, should be properly filtered to prevent power supply noise from entering the

# 9 LNA and reducing performance.
Term RFin inatio next TR LN AEN

# V CC
LN A bypass RFout

# 11 Figure 2.3.2-8 LNA Reference Design

# 13 2.3.2.2.4 Circulator Reference Design
For TDD use, the Tx and Rx links work in time duplex. To properly couple the Tx energy to the antenna and the Rx signal to the LNA input, a circulator is used to perform this function given the potentially high RF power being processed through this device. The circulator can be configured as a clockwise or counterclockwise device depending on the layout details.

# 18 2.3.2.2.4.1 Hardware Specifications

# 19 2.3.2.2.4.1.1 Interface
The circulator includes 3 ports that can function as in input or an output. If the device is labelled clockwise, then for each input, its nominal output is the next pin rotating right around the device. If it is counterclockwise, the nominal output is the next pin rotating to the left around the device. ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00

# 4 2.3.2.2.4.2 Hardware Design
The example on the left in Figure 2.3.2-9 is a clockwise oriented device. The RF input enters pin 1 and exits pin 2. Pin 2 can also be used as an input and its output is pin 3. Finally pin 3 can also function as an input with pin 1 being the output. The device on the right is counterclockwise oriented and the signal flow is the in the opposite direction.

# 10 Figure 2.3.2-9 Circulator Reference Design

# 12 2.3.2.2.5 Antenna / Phased Array Reference Design
The antenna is a transducer, and it is used to convert electrical signal to the Electromagnetic waves during the transmit mode and vice versa in the reception mode. radiate the TX power and to receive the RX signal. Based on the radiation pattern characteristics of the antenna, it is broadly classified as omni-directional and directional antennas and examples of such antennas are Two options are listed below for reference.

# 17 2.3.2.2.5.1 Hardware Specifications for Omnidirectional Antenna
The following table shows the typical electrical omnidirectional antenna specifications for the O-RU . 7-2 ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00

# 3 2.3.2.2.5.1.1 Hardware Design for Omnidirectional Antenna
One possible choice of the omnidirectional antenna is a cannister type with multiple ports including the 4 ports for the 4T4R radio. Conceptual design is shown in the following figure.

# 7 Figure 2.3.2-10 Canister Style Omni Antenna

# 10 2.3.2.2.5.2 Hardware Specifications for Directional Antenna
The following table shows the typical electrical directional antenna specifications for the O-RU . 7-2 ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00

# 3 2.3.2.2.5.2.1 Hardware Design for Directional Antenna
One possible choice of directional antennas are the radios mounted on the back of the antenna with 4 ports for the 4T4R radio on the back of the antenna just below each radio. Conceptual design is shown in the following figure. Figure 2.3.2-11 Mounting arrangement scenario 1 of 4T4R radios on the back of Directional Antenna Another possible choice of directional antennas are the radios located away from the antenna with ports for each of the 4T4R radios on the bottom cap of the antenna. Conceptual design is shown in the following figure. ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00 Figure 2.3.2-12 Mounting arrangement scenario 2 of 4T4R radios remotely mounted with Directional Antenna

# 4 2.3.2.3 Internal Interfaces
The following sections describe potentially useful optional interfaces within the white box. These optional interfaces are not required and may be used at the discrepancy of the manufacturer. This section is provided strictly as information only to better clarify the functionality of these interfaces.

# 8 2.3.2.3.1 Optional JES204 Interfacing
O-RU solutions requiring chip to chip interfacing of high-speed time domain data may benefit from utilization of JEDEC defined standard JESD204 [16]. This interface is specified for chip-to-chip interfacing that provides fast, low latency and time aligned data. The benefit of such an interface is to enable an open standard that allows for devices from multiple vendors to seamlessly interface. From a logistical perspective JESD204 allows multiple devices to communicate over the same link in a multiplex fashion while preserving time alignment and providing deterministic latency. This makes JESD204 a good candidate interface for carrying the signals for multiple antennas, multiple component carriers including I and Q data. This allows for relative simplicity requiring only a few differential pairs along with a ‘device clock’ and ‘sysref’ signals to carry and synchronize all time aligned signals. Figure 2.3.2-13 provides an example of a typical configuration for a JESD204 configuration. The lines labeled ‘JESD for UL x2’ and ‘JESD for DL x2’ are the data bearing connections and consist of differential pairs. In this example, there are 2 differential pairs for the UL data (receiver path) and 2 differential pairs for the DL data (transmit path). These connections provide data using an embedded clock and synchronization with a transport layer coding used to ensure sufficient transitions that the embedded clock can be recovered on the receiving end. The second signal of is labeled ‘Device Clock’. The device clock provides the frequency reference to devices in the configuration. Within the scope of JESD204, this signal provides the reference for the interface. In practice, the Device Clock also provide the frequency reference to the individual devices and is usually a ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00 multiple of 30.72 MHz. JESD204 connected devices would use this reference for both the interface as well as other frequency services within the device such as sample clocks and other PLLs. The final signal is the ‘Sysref’ which enables deterministic latency in the system. Each interconnected device uses this signal in conjunction with ‘Device Clock’ to determine exactly when the sample edge should occur. There are different ways to configure and use ‘Sysref’ to achieve different goal. For more details on configuration, see [16]. JESD204 is an evolving standard. Although it has been around for a while, as process technology evolves and data needs grow, JESD has evolved to keep pace with throughput needs. The initial variation supported up to

## 3.125 Gbps. JESD204A brough speeds up to 6.25 Gbps. JESD204B brought throughput to 12.5 Gbps. Most
recently JESD204C offers throughputs up to 32.45 Gbps. Each variety offers at least one option for transport layer coding like 8B/10B as well as a range of other features including sub-channel coding which allows control channels to be passed along with the primary data. Currently most devices support JESD204B and JESD204C. As of this writing, JEDEC is underway defining the next phase of JESD204x which will further increase data rates as demanded by increasing bandwidth in wireless and other application.

# 15 Table 2.3.2-13 JESD204 Abridged Lexicon
Parameter Description

# M Number of converters/converter device (link)
NP (or N’) Total number of bits per sample

# S Samples transmitted/single converter/frame cycle

# F Octets/Frame

# K Number of frames per multi-frame
SC Sample Clock Rate

# L Number of lanes/converter device (link)
To better comprehend the JESD204 standard, understanding the lexicon is important. There are many parameters that can be used, but those in Table 2.3.2-13 provide the core definitions. Most of these are basic parameters related to common data converter characteristics and include the number of converters, number of bits and sample rate. The remaining parameters are related to the transport layer and physical implementation of the interface. Combined, the parameters in this lexicon help define the data throughput, number of lanes required as well as the framing of data onto the interfaces. Starting with the payload, it is determined by computing the serial data rate and adding the transport layer (ie 8B/10B, 64B/66B etc) to that as defined in the following equation:

# 24 𝑀×𝑁𝑃×𝑆𝐶×𝑇𝑟𝑎𝑛𝑠𝑝𝑜𝑟𝑡 𝐿𝑎𝑦𝑒𝑟 𝐶𝑜𝑑𝑖𝑛𝑔 = 𝑃𝑎𝑦𝑙𝑜𝑎𝑑 𝑅𝑎𝑡𝑒
This equation provides the total payload to be delivered between devices. This data is delivered over one or more lanes. If they payload exceeds the capacity of one lane, additional lanes are added to ensure that the throughput per lane matches the capability of the standard. As highlighted in preceding paragraphs, currently JESD204B supports up to 12.5 Gbps and JESD204C supports up to 32.45 Gbps but future evolutions will include higher lane capacity. Where the Payload Rate exceeds an individual lanes capacity, the total Payload Rate is divided by the lane capacity, currently 12.5 Gbps or 32.45 Gbps, to determine the approximate number of lanes required. The actual number is the next higher integer to ensure that the lane rate is less than the ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00 maximum specified or desired. As the standard continues to evolve, this same math will be used to determine the payload and number of lanes, L. 𝑃𝑎𝑦𝑙𝑜𝑎𝑑 𝑅𝑎𝑡𝑒

# 3 𝐿 = 𝐶𝑒𝑙𝑖𝑛𝑔( )
𝑀𝑎𝑥 𝐿𝑎𝑛𝑒 𝑅𝑎𝑡𝑒 The final important term is F, the number of octets per frame. In JESD204, an octet represents an encoded 8- bit word. Fundamentally, F defines the frame structure given the number of lanes and the specific payload to deliver. F is defined by the following equation and represents the number of octets per frame: 𝑀×𝑋×𝑁𝑃

# 7 𝐹 =
8×𝐿 Figure 2.3.2-13 provides an example 4T4R configuration supporting a typical 100 MHz waveform. The low PHY device processes complex (I & Q data) for each datapath and thus there are a total of 8 data streams that must be moved between the digital chip and the data conversion. The bit precision of this data is sufficient to meet the noise requirements of the solution and could be 12 or more bits. For this example, 16-bits will be assumed. To support a 100 MHz bandwidth, a complex data rate of 122.88 MSPS will be used as indicated by Table B.5.2-2 of [3]. Device Clock A Device Clock B Clock Synthesis ADC Sysref A Sysref B ADC JESD PHY JESD for UL x2 ADC ADC Fronthaul To RFFE DFE & Low PHY Or Low PHY DAC JESD for DL x2 DAC JESD PHY DAC DAC

# 15 Figure 2.3.2-13 Example 4T4R JESD204 Configuration
Using this information and the equations above and applying 8B10B transport layer coding, the total payload, number of lanes and octets per frame can be computed. Since this is a 4T4R application and each path is ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00 represented by a complex stream, ‘M’ equals 8. ‘NP’ is 16 bits. ‘SC’ equals 122.88 MSPS. Total data payload can be computed using the following equation: 𝑃𝑎𝑦𝑙𝑜𝑎𝑑 = 8×16×122.886× = 19.6608𝐺𝑏𝑝𝑠 Assuming the interface is based on JESD204B, then the maximum data rate for a single lane would be 12.5 Gbps. Therefore, we need to divide the data onto two physical lanes of 9.8304 Gbps each. Hence in this example, ‘L’ equals 2.

## 19.6608 𝐺𝑏𝑝𝑠

# 7 𝐿 = 𝐶𝑒𝑖𝑙𝑖𝑛𝑔( ) =2

## 12.5 𝐺𝑏𝑝𝑠
Finally, ‘F’ the number of Octets/Frame is computed to be 8. 8×1×16

# 9 𝐹 = = 8
8×2 Using this information, the mapping of data can be determined by using online tools such as [17]. These tools describe how the converter data is mapped onto each lane by octet as shown in Figure 2.3.2-14. In this example on lane 0, the first octet conveyed are the most significant bits of converter 0. This is followed by the LSBs in the second octet. This is followed by converter 1, 2 and 3 on lane 0. In parallel, lane 1 provides the data for converters 5 through 7 with the most significant octet leading. In this figure, M#SO represents the logical converter where # identifies the specific converter.

# 17 Figure 2.3.2-14 4T4R Example Data Mapping
More complicated examples are also supported as shown in Figure 2.3.2-15 where an 8T8R is described. This configuration supports a 200 MHz iBW and thus requires a complex data rate of 245.76 MSPS. In this case, there are 8 transmit and 8 receive paths. Each of these requires a complex path to the low PHY device. L a n e s M M O S S c t e 0 [ 1 0 [ 1 t 0

# 5 :8

# 5 :8
] ] M M O c S S t e [ [ t :0 :0 ] ] M M O S S

# 4 ( L =
c t e t 2 0 [ 1 5 :8 ] 0 [ 1 5 :8 ]

# M 5
= c t

# S 0

# S 0

# 8 , F =
F r a m e t 3 [ 7 :0 ] [ 7 :0 ] e M M , S O

# 6 S
= 1 c t e 0 [ 1 0 [ 1 , N t 4

# 5 :8

# 5 :8
P ] ] = 1 6 O

# M 6
) c S S t e [ [ t :0 :0 ] ] M M O c t

# S 0

# S 0
e [ [ t 6

# P H Y
JE SD

# P H Y
v ic e C lo c k A S J

# J E
y E S s S D C lo c r e f A D f o f o r k S y n th e s is S y r U L x 2

# D L x 2
s r e f D B e v ic e C lo c k B

# D FE & Lo w
O r Lo w P PH

# H Y
Y F r o n t h a u l

# 5 Figure 2.3.2-15 Example 8T8R JESD204 Configuration
JESD204C supports up to 32.45 Gbps and therefore 2 lanes will be required as shown below. In this example,

# 8 𝐿 = 𝐶𝑒𝑖𝑙𝑖𝑛𝑔( )= 2

## 32.45 𝐺𝑏𝑝𝑠
ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00 Using the equation for ‘F’ determines the octets per frame to be 16 in this example. The frame structure as defined by JESD204 is shown in Figure 2.3.2-16 As with the 4T4R example, the frame structure is little endian with lane 0 beginning with converter 0 and lane 1 beginning with converter 8. Complete details on JESD204 can be found [16]. 16×1×16

# 5 𝐹 = = 16
8×2

# 7 Figure 2.3.2-16 8T8R Example Data Mapping

# 8 2.3.2.3.2 Optional Die to Die Interfacing
The existing specification O-RAN.WG7.OMC-HRD-Opt7-2-v03.00 has several references to SERDES links, either in text or diagrams. The SERDES link is very appropriate for deployments where RF and baseband chips are separated by 10s of cm on a PCB, as it provides low wire count with decent power consumption (pJ/bit). For multi-chip modules, however, where die are separated by 10 mm or less, die-to-die (D2D) parallel interfaces such as Advanced Interface Bus (AIB) [18], Bunch of Wires (BoW) [19] or Universal Chiplet Interconnect Express (UCIe) [20] offer a lower power, lower complexity option, at the cost of more I/O.

# 16 Figure 2.3.27-17 Basic die-to-die parallel architecture
The simplicity of the die-to-die parallel architecture is illustrated in the figure above which depicts a 16-bit unidirectional “data unit” with single-ended drivers and receivers, plus a differential forwarded clock. The salient features of die-to-die interfaces are: ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00 1. Uni-directional throughput rates in the 100-1000 Gbps/mm depending on packaging technology, clock rate, channel length, and use of source/load terminations. 1

# 3 2. Power consumption in the .5-1.0 pJ/bit range.
3. Scaleable, via the addition of more data units consisting of 16-20 I/O each, encompassing more silicon beachfront or bump rows. 4. Simple PHY architecture not requiring any complex pre-emphasis or equalization…usually only Duty Cycle Correction (DCC) and a Delay Lock Loop (DLL). 5. Reliable link such that FEC is typically not required. The diagram above shows an implementation of D2D in a Multi-chip module including the Digital Baseband unit and the Transceiver in one package. Referring to Figure 2.3.2-2, the Digital Processing unit in the figure corresponds to the Digital Baseband unit in the figure above. This figure shows DL I/Q data flowing to the transceiver, but there would be a corresponding path in the other direction for UL I/Q data flowing from

# 14 Transceiver to the Digital Baseband unit.
In Figure 2.3.27-17, the clock source is shown on the left of the data transmitting unit. Since DDR mode may be used for max throughput, and the clock is typically in the 1-4 GHz range, an accurate duty cycle is required. The Duty Cycle Correction (DCC) block would be employed to ensure that a duty cycle close to 50% is maintained. On the RX side, a Delay Lock Loop (DLL) may be used to ensure that the clock strobes data into the data register at approximately the middle of the data bits. If so, a calibration or initialization procedure would determine the clock phase shift required to center the strobe. The packaging technology and bump pitch used for each die greatly influences the final throughput expressed as Gbps/mm. Standard chip scale bump pitches of 100 um or greater, used with organic substrate chip scale packaging, allow for simplified D2D interconnect but will not give the maximum throughput. The use of micro-bumps and specialized interposer technology, or even EMIB, will provide for throughput approaching

# 26 1 Tbps/mm and lower power.
With the AIB, UCIe, and BoW D2D interfaces mentioned initially, a standardized bump map for each data unit is either required, or strongly recommended. (At a minimum, there needs to be a wiring order so that packages with different bump pitches can still be used and data lines routed through the RDL without criss- crossing or excess routing skew.) The # of routing layers in the packaging interconnect determines how many data units (with their associated physical bump patterns) can be adjoined (inwards towards the die), in order to further increase throughput for the same silicon beachfront. Initial D2D deployments used un-terminated drivers and receivers, which was sufficient for clock rates in the low GHz range and channel lengths of a few mm. To achieve longer channel lengths and/or higher base clock rates, terminations may be employed at the source driver, the receiver, or both. Here the linear mm dimension refers to the silicon edge beachfront dedicated to the parallel I/O ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00

# Q S F P

# G P S / A u x o r
C a s c a d e C lo c k S y n th e siz e r

# X T A L
E th e rn e t C lo c k E m b e d d e d C LK

# G P S / A u x C lo ck
C lo ck , S y n c & C o n tro l C lo c k S o ftw a re S ta c k C lo C o ck C o n tro , S y n n tro l cl & S y n c h

# T C
ro n

# X O
iz e r D e v

# R F T R x

# C L K , S y sre f

# 6 Figure 2.3.3-1 Clock and Synchronization Functional Block Diagram

# 8 2.3.3.1 Hardware Specifications

# 9 2.3.3.1.1 Interface

# 10 Table 2.3.3-1 Synchronization and Timing Interface Specifications
Item Name Description Clock Inputs Depending on the configuration, the following clock inputs may exist: QFSP, Ethernet, GPS, Cascaded unit clocks, Synchronized Clock. Clock Outputs Depending on functional requirements, the following clocks may be delivered: QFSP, Ethernet, DDR, CPU, RF Transceiver clock, Synchronizer reference. Clock Control SPI or I2C to control the clock synthesizer and synchronizer. Clock Sync Logic signal to phase align and time align the synchronizer with master. Crystal Reference One or more reference oscillators to provide required phase noise and short/long term stability. ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00

# 3 2.3.3.1.3 Synchronizer
The purpose of the Synchronizer is to function as part of the local clock recovery in conjunction with an IEEE1588v2 software stack to provide local time of day and to generate a local synchronous reference signals to be used for synthesis of necessary clocks to other functions within the O-RU . 7-2

# 7 2.3.3.1.3.1 Hardware Specifications

# 8 2.3.3.1.3.1.1 Interface

# 9 Table 2.3.3-2 Synchronizer Interface Specifications
Item Name Description REFA, REFAA differential or single ended reference pulse inputs. REFB, REFBB differential or single ended reference pulse inputs. Status and Control control core operation and report on state of the PLL. XOA, XOB complimentary reference inputs or reference crystal connections Output0 and Output0N & reference outputs to feed further synthesis, transceiver or logic blocks. Output1 and Output1N

# 11 2.3.3.1.3.1.2 Performance Specifications

# 12 Table 2.3.3-3 Synchronizer Performance Specifications
Item Name Description Notes

# 10 Hz Offset −77 dBc/Hz Device configuration: fOSC =

# 100 Hz Offset −93 dBc/Hz 52 MHz crystal, fREF = 30.72
kHz Offset −114 dBc/Hz MHz, fVCO = 2457.6 MHz, kHz Offset −125 dBc/Hz fOUT = 245.76 MHz, DPLL BW 100 kHz Offset −130 dBc/Hz = 50 Hz, internal zero delay

# 10 MHz Offset −156 dBc/Hz
ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00

# 3 Figure 2.3.3-2 Synchronizer Block Diagram

# 5 2.3.3.1.4 Reference Synthesizer
The purpose of the clock synthesizer is to generate low jitter, high stability reference clocks as needed throughout the design.

# 8 2.3.3.1.4.1 Hardware Specifications

# 9 2.3.3.1.4.1.1 Interface

# 10 Table 2.3.3-4 Synthesizer Interface Specifications
Item Name Description Reference Clock(s) Input The clock inputs device should receive a stable reference from a crystal, network reference or other suitable source. More than one input is allowed that may be selected between as required by the system. Control Control of the transceiver is by way of 3 or 4 wire SPI or I2C functioning as a slave. Support for 1.8V control is required and tolerance of 3.3V is preferred. Typically, the clock devices will be part of an IEEE1588v2 protocol loop controlled by way of this control interface, or other GPIO lines as required by the hardware implementation. Clock Outputs One or more clock outputs are required to drive the digital device and transceiver clock inputs. Each output should be independently programmable in frequency to suit the application. The outputs should nominally be differential to preserve clocking edge and to maximize tolerance of high common mode signals. ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00

# 10 Hz Offset -90 dBc/Hz

# 100 Hz Offset −120 dBc/Hz
kHz Offset −140 dBc/Hz kHz Offset −151 dBc/Hz 100 kHz Offset −152 dBc/Hz

# 4 2.3.3.1.4.2 Hardware Design

# 6 Figure 2.3.3-3 Synthesizer Block Diagram

# 8 2.3.3.2 Hardware Design

# 9 2.3.4 External Interface Ports

# 10 2.3.4.1 Hardware Specifications
The following table shows the external ports or slots provided by the O-RU . External connections can be 7-2 aggregated into a composite connector to minimize the points of environmental ingress as required for a specific deployment. ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00

# 3 2.3.4.2 Hardware Design

# 4 2.3.4.2.1 Fronthaul Interface
The fronthaul interface to the OMC is provided by an optical fiber or fibers connected to the chassis by way of a SFP or SFP+ cage connector. In addition, an IP67 connector seal should be selected to provide appropriate environmental protection.

# 9 Figure 2.3.4-1 SFP+ case and connector

# 12 2.3.4.2.2 Debug Interface
The local maintenance port or debug port is by way of a standard ethernet connector. The RJ45 Ethernet connector are standardized components and available from multiple vendors. The following figure describes the general form factor of one such RJ45 connector. ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00

# 3 2.3.4.2.3 Power Interface
The standard power interface is defined by a 2-pin panel mount connector as shown in the following figure.

# 6 Figure 2.3.4-3 Power Interface

# 7 2.3.4.2.4 RF Interface
The standard RF interface are the 4.3-10+ Low PIM RF connector and the M-LOC cluster/multiport connector as shown in the following figure. ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00 4m

# 5 .1

# 3 2.3.5 Mechanical
One such mechanical structure is shown in the following figure. The shell should provide appropriate environmental protection, RF shielding and passive thermal dissipation. Internally, thermal pads are used to contact local heat sources and transfer that heat to the frame which in turn dissipates the heat through bulk metal and fins used to increase the effective surface area. Other enclosures are possible. ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00

# 4 Figure 2.3.5-2 Mechanical Enclosure End View
ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00

# 5 2.3.6.1 Hardware Specifications
The power unit is responsible for isolating and converting the telco supply to appropriate voltages for distribution to individual supply domains in the O-RU . The typical dissipation is outlined below. The RF 7-2 front end is broken out separately since different deployment scenarios will require different frequencies and power levels resulting is significantly different total dissipation. Total Power is the sum of the two sections below.

# 11 Table 2.3.6-1 Transceiver Module Specifications
Module 4T4R (Watts) Notes FPGA 16 Transceiver 7 Synchronization & Clocking 3 DDR 1 Others 3 SFP+ Module 1.5 1 module installed total device consumption 31.5 O-RU Low PHY Transceiver 36.8 On board power efficiency 7-2 power consumption 85%

# 13 Table 2.3.6-2 RF Front End Module Specifications
Module 4T4R (Watts) Notes PA 125 75% Tx, Max RF. 10W rms output @ 100 MHz PA Drive Amp 4 LNA 0.5 25% Rx Others 2.5 Bias generators and controller total device consumption 132 O-RU RF Front End power 155.3 On board power efficiency 7-2 consumption 85%

# 14 2.3.6.2 Hardware Design
The block diagram of the power unit is shown in the figure below, which depict the power distribution to various functional modules such as RF PAM board and FPGA/RF SoC board (Digital) along with approximate power requirements. ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00

# 3 2.3.7 Thermal
Heat dissipation in O-RU7-2 is widely done through passive cooling via three modes: conduction, convection, and radiation. These mechanisms are accomplished with help of heat sink, heat pipes and vapor chamber etc. The transfer of heat though conduction can usually be described by Fourier’s law, which is stated: 𝑞 = (𝑘⁄𝑠)𝐴.𝑑𝑇 k is the thermal conductivity of the material, and has units of W/m·K, s = material thickness, A = heat transfer area, dT = temperature difference between inside and outside wall.

# 10 Table 2.3.7-1 Thermal Conductivity of common Metals [13]
Type of material Thermal Conductivity (W/m.K) Diamond 2300 Pure Al 237 Hard Aluminium 4.5% Cu 177 Au 315-317 Ag 99.9% 411-429 Iron 80 Tin 67 The heat sinks transfer heat to the space by thermal convection and radiation. For thermal convection, it can be calculated by the Newton’s Equation: 𝑄 = 𝛼 𝐴∆𝑡 = 𝛼 𝐴(𝑡 −𝑡 ) 𝑑 𝑐 𝑐 𝜔 𝑓 where, Q is the convention heat (W), t is the surface temperature of object (K), t is the temperature of airflow d ω f (K), A is the surface area of the object involved in heat transfer (m2), ∆t is the temperature difference between the surface temperature of object and airflow (K), α is convective heat transfer coefficient (W/m2.K). c

# 17 Table 2.3.7-2 Convective heat transfer coefficient [14]
Flow Type Heat transfer coefficients (W/m2.K) ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00 Forced convection; low speed flow of air over a surface 10 Forced convection; moderate speed flow of air over a surface 100 Forced convection; moderate speed cross flow of air over a cylinder 200 Forced convection; moderate flow of water in a pipe 3000 For thermal radiation, it can be calculated by the following Equation:

# 3 𝑄 = 𝜀𝛿𝐴(𝑡4 −𝑡4)
𝑟 𝜔 𝑓 where, Q is the radiation heat (W), ε is the thermal emissivity, δ is the Stefan–Boltzmann constant, its value r is 5.67032 x10-8 W/ (m-2. K-4). From these Equations, we can see that the increase of surface area A and thermal emissivity ε will improve the heat dissipation. Different materials can have widely different emissivity values within the range of 0 to 1.00. Material Emissivity Value (ε) Aluminium: anodized 0.77 Aluminium: polished 0.05 Brass: highly polished 0.03 Brass: oxidized 0.61 Carbon: candle soot 0.95 Carbon: graphite, filed surface 0.98 Copper: polished 0.05 Copper: oxidized 0.65

# 10 2.3.8 Environmental and Regulations
The O-RU hardware system is RoHS Compliant. Unit is passively cooled. 7-2

# 12 Table 2.3.8-1 Environmental Features
Item Name Description Notes Operating Temperature -40°C to +55°C Cold and hot start Operating Relative Humidity 5% to 95% Atmospheric Pressure 70 to 106Kpa ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00

## 2.4 Integrated O-DU & O-RU (gNB-DU) Reference Design

# 3 2.4.1.1 O-DU High-Level Functional Block Diagram

# 4 2.4.1.2 O-DU Hardware Components

# 5 2.4.1.2.1 Digital Processing Unit

# 6 2.4.1.2.2 Hardware Accelerator (if required by design)

# 7 2.4.1.2.2.1 Accelerator Design 1

# 8 2.4.1.2.2.2 Accelerator Design 2

# 9 2.4.1.3 Synchronization and Timing

# 10 2.4.2 O-RU Portion of Integrated Reference Design

# 11 2.4.2.1 O-RU High-Level Functional Block Diagram

# 12 2.4.2.2 O-RU Hardware Components

# 13 2.4.2.2.1 Digital Processing Unit

# 14 2.4.2.2.2 RF Processing Unit

# 15 2.4.2.2.2.1 Transceiver Reference Design

# 16 2.4.2.2.2.2 Power Amplifier (PA) Reference Design

# 17 2.4.2.2.2.3 Low Noise Amplifier (LNA) Reference Design

# 18 2.4.2.2.2.4 RF Switch Reference Design

# 19 2.4.2.2.2.5 Antenna / Phased Array Reference Design

# 20 2.4.2.2.3 Synchronization and Timing

# 21 2.4.3 External Interface Ports

# 22 2.4.4 O-DU/O-RU Firmware (if required by design)

# 23 2.4.5 Mechanical

# 24 2.4.6 Power Unit
ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00

## 2.5 Integrated O-CU & O-DU Reference Design

# 4 2.5.1 O-CU Portion of Integrated Reference Design

# 5 2.5.1.1 Integrated O-CU High-Level Functional Block Diagram

# 6 2.5.1.2 O-CU Hardware Components

# 7 2.5.1.2.1 Digital Processing Unit

# 8 2.5.1.2.2 Hardware Accelerator (if required by design)

# 9 2.5.1.2.2.1 Accelerator Design 1

# 10 2.5.1.2.2.2 Accelerator Design 2

# 11 2.5.1.3 Synchronization and Timing

# 12 2.5.1.4 O-CU Firmware (if required by design)

# 13 2.5.2 O-DU Portion of Hardware Reference Design

# 14 2.5.2.1 O-DU High-Level Functional Block Diagram

# 15 2.5.2.2 O-DU Hardware Components

# 16 2.5.2.2.1 Digital Processing Unit

# 17 2.5.2.2.2 Hardware Accelerator (if required by design)

# 18 2.5.2.2.2.1 Accelerator Design 1

# 19 2.5.2.2.2.2 Accelerator Design 2

# 20 2.5.2.3 Synchronization and Timing

# 21 2.5.3 External Interface Ports

# 22 2.5.4 O-DU Firmware

# 23 2.5.5 Mechanical
ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00

# 3 2.5.8 Environmental and Regulations

## 2.6 FHGW Hardware Reference Design

# 5 2.6.1 FHGW High-Level Functional Block Diagram

# 6 2.6.2 FHGW Hardware Components

# 7 2.6.2.1 Digital Processing Unit

# 8 2.6.3 Synchronization and Timing

# 9 2.6.4 External Interface Ports

# 10 2.6.5 Mechanical

# 11 2.6.6 Power

# 12 2.6.7 Thermal

# 13 2.6.8 Environmental

# 4 Intel Based O-DU
7-2 No. Item Name Description Intel® Xeon® Processor D-2183IT Intel® Xeon® Skylake D D-2100 SoC processor

# 3 Intel® X557-AT2 Intel® 10GbE x2 Ethernet controller

# 4 Intel® I210 Intel® 1GbE Ethernet controller
ASPEED® AST-2500 ASPEED® BMC controller

# 6 UniIC® SCQ08GU03H1F1C-26V UniIC® DDR4 8GB

# 7 Powerleader® MTFDDAK480TDC- Powerleader® SSD 480GB
1AT1ZABYY

# 8 Accelink® RTXM228-551 Accelink® 10Gbps Optical module
Annex 1.3 O-RU Reference Parts List

# 6 7-2
The tables below represent potential options for component selection for O-RU . 7-2 ORAN.WG7.OMC-HRD.07-2-R003-v04.00


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG7.TS.IPC-HRD-Opt7-2.0-R005-v04.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG7.TS.IPC-HRD-Opt7-2.0-R005-v04.00 Technical Specification Hardware Reference Design Specification for Indoor Picocell (FR1) with Split Architecture Option 7-2"
---

# 7 Release x.y.z
where: x the first digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc. (the initial approved document will have x=01). y the second digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been incorporated in the document. z the third digit included only in working versions of the document indicating incremental changes during the editing process. This variable is for internal WG7 use only. The present document specifies system requirements and high-level architecture for the FR1 Picocell Indoor deployment scenario as specified in the Deployment Scenarios and Base Station Classes document [1]. In the main body of this specification (in any “chapter”) the information contained therein is informative, unless explicitly described as normative. Information contained in an “Annex” to this specification is always informative unless otherwise marked as normative.

## 1.2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this text, constitute provisions of the present document. [1] ORAN-WG7.DSC.0-V01.00 Technical Specification, ‘Deployment Scenarios and Base Station Classes for White

# 25 Box Hardware’. https://www.o-ran.org/specifications
[2] 3GPP TR 21.905: "Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications". [3] 3GPP TR 38.104: "NR; Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception". http://www.3gpp.org/ftp//Specs/archive/38_series/38.104/38104-g10.zip [4] ORAN-WG4.CUS.0-v01.00 Technical Specification, ‘O-RAN Fronthaul Working Group Control, User and

# 30 Synchronization Plane Specification’. https://www.o-ran.org/specifications
[5] 3GPP TS 38.113:"NR: Base Station (BS) Electromagnetic Compatibility (EMC)". http://www.3gpp.org/ftp//Specs/archive/38_series/38.113/38113-f80.zip [6] ORAN-WG7. IPC. HAR-v01.00 Technical Specification, ‘Indoor Pico Cell Hardware Architecture and

# 34 Requirement Specification’. https://www.o-ran.org/specifications.
[7] ORAN-WG7. IPC. HRD.O8-v03.00 Technical Specification, ‘Indoor Pico Cell BS Hardware Reference Design Specifications with Fronthaul Split Option 8 and FR1’. https://www.o-ran.org/specifications

## 1.3 Definitions and Abbreviations

### 1.3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [2]. For the base station classes of Pico, Micro and Macro, the definitions are given in 3GPP TR 38.104 [3].

# 9 Carrier Frequency: Center frequency of the cell.
F1 interface: The open interface between O-CU and O-DU as defined by 3GPP TS 38.473 between CU and DU. 7-2 Integrated architecture: In the integrated architecture, the O-RU and O-DU are implemented on one platform. Each x O-RU and RF front end is associated with one O-DU . They are then aggregated to O-CU and connected by F1 7-2 interface. Split architecture: The O-RU and O-DU are physically separated from one another in this architecture. A switch may x x aggregate multiple O-RU s to one O-DU . O-DU switch and O-RU s are connected by the fronthaul interface as x x x x defined in WG4. Transmission Reception Point (TRxP): Antenna array with one or more antenna elements available to the network located at a specific geographical location for a specific area.

### 1.3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in [2] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, as in [2]. 7-2 Fronthaul interface split option as defined by O-RAN WG4, also referred to as 7-2x

# 23 3GPP Third Generation Partnership Project

# 24 5G Fifth-Generation Mobile Communications

# 25 5GC 5G Core

# 26 ACS Adjacent Channel Selectivity

# 27 ADC Analog to Digital Converter

# 28 ASIC Application Specific Integrated Circuit

# 29 ATA Advanced Technology Attachment

# 30 BBDEV Baseband Device

# 31 BH Backhaul

# 32 BMC Baseboard Management Controller

# 33 BPSK Binary Phase Shift Keying

# 34 BS Base Station

# 35 CISPR International Special Committee on Radio Interference

# 36 CFR Crest Factor Reduction

# 3 CPRI Common Public Radio Interface

# 4 CPU Central Processing Unit

# 5 CRC Cyclic Redundancy Check

# 6 DAC Digital to Analog Converter

# 7 DDC Digital Down Conversion

# 8 DDR Double Data Rate

# 9 DIMM Dual-Inline-Memory-Modules

# 10 DL Downlink

# 11 DPD Digital Pre-Distortion

# 12 DPDK Data Plane Development Kit

# 13 DSP Digital Signal Processor

# 14 DU Distributed Unit as defined by 3GPP

# 15 DUC Digital Up Conversion

# 16 ECC Error Correcting Code
eCPRI evolved Common Public Radio Interface

# 18 EMC Electro Magnetic Compatibility

# 19 EVM Error Vector Magnitude

# 20 FCC Federal Communications Commission

# 21 FEC Forward Error Correction

# 22 FFT Fast Fourier Transform

# 23 FH Fronthaul

# 24 FHGW Fronthaul Gateway
FHM Fronthaul Multiplexer with no FH protocol translation, supporting an O-DU with split option x x x and an O-RU with split option x, with currently available options 6→6, 7-2→7-2 and 8→8 x FHGW Fronthaul Gateway that can translate fronthaul protocol from an O-DU with split option x to an x→y x O-RU with split option y, with currently available option 7-2→8. y

# 29 FHHL Full Height Half Length

# 30 FPGA Field Programmable Gate Array

# 31 GbE Gigabit Ethernet

# 32 GNSS Global Navigation Satellite System

# 33 GPP General Purpose Processor

# 34 GPS Global Positioning System

# 35 HARQ Hybrid Automatic Repeat request

# 36 HHHL Half Height Half Length

# 37 IEEE Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers

# 38 IFFT Inverse Fast Fourier Transform

# 39 IMD Inter Modulation Distortion

# 40 I/O Input/Output

# 41 JTAG Joint Test Action Group

# 42 L1 Layer 1

# 43 LDPC Low-Density Parity Codes

# 3 LVDS Low-Voltage Differential Signaling

# 4 MAC Media Access Control

# 5 MCP Multi-Chip Package

# 6 MH Midhaul

# 7 MIG Memory Interface Generator

# 8 MII Media-Independent interface

# 9 MIMO Multiple Input Multiple Output

# 10 MU-MIMO Multiple User MIMO

# 11 NEBS Network Equipment-Building System

# 12 NetConf Network Configuration Protocol

# 13 NFV Network Functions Virtualization

# 14 NIC Network Interface Controller

# 15 NR New Radio

# 16 O-CU O-RAN Centralized Unit as defined by O-RAN
O-DU A specific O-RAN Distributed Unit having fronthaul split option x where x may be 6, 7-2 (as x defined by WG4) or 8 O-RU A specific O-RAN Radio Unit having fronthaul split option x, where x is 6, 7-2 (as defined by x WG4) or 8, and which is used in a configuration where the fronthaul interface is the same at the O-

# 21 DU
x

# 22 OCXO Oven Controlled Crystal Oscillator

# 23 PCIe Peripheral Component Interface Express

# 24 PDCP Packet Data Convergence Protocol

# 25 PHY Physical Layer

# 26 PMBus Power Management Bus

# 27 POE Power over Ethernet

# 28 PPS Pulse Per Second

# 29 PRACH Physical Random Access Channel

# 30 QAM Quadrature Amplitude Modulation

# 31 QPSK Quadrature Phase Shift Keying

# 32 QSFP Quad Small Form-factor Pluggable

# 33 RAN Radio Access Network

# 34 RDIMM Registered Dual In-line Memory Module

# 35 RF Radio Frequency

# 36 RoE Radio over Ethernet

# 37 RU Radio Unit as defined by 3GPP

# 38 RX Receiver

# 39 SATA Serial ATA

# 40 SDU Service Data Unit

# 41 SFP Small Form-factor Pluggable

# 42 SFP+ Small Form-factor Pluggable plus

# 43 SOC System On Chip

# 3 TCXO Temperature Compensate Crystal Oscillator

# 4 TDP Thermal Design Power

# 5 TR Technical Report

# 6 TS Technical Specification

# 7 TX Transmitter

# 8 UL Uplink

# 9 USB Universal Serial Bus

# 10 WG Working Group
Chapter 2 Hardware Reference Design 1 This chapter describes a white box hardware reference design example for indoor Picocell deployment scenario. It includes O-CU, O-DU and FHM /FHGW for IPC deployment scenario. 7-2 7-2 7-2→8

# 16 7-2
The O-DU white box hardware is the platform that performs the O- DU functions such as upper L1 and lower L2 7-2 7-2 functions. The hardware systems specified in this document meet the computing, power and environmental requirements of use case’s configurations and feature sets of RAN physical node. These requirements are described in the early hardware requirement specification as well as in the use cases document. The O-DU hardware includes the 7-2 chassis platform, mother board, peripheral devices and cooling devices. The mother board contains processing unit, memory, the internal I/O interfaces, and external connection ports. The fronthaul and backhaul interface are used to carry the traffic between O-RU /FHM /FHGW and O-DU as well as O-CU and O-DU . The O-DU design 7-2 7-2 7-2→8 7-2 7-2 7-2 may also provide an interface for hardware accelerator if that option is preferred. The other hardware functional components include: the storage for software, hardware and system debugging interfaces, board management controller, just to name a few; the O-DU designer will make decision based on the specific needs of the implementation. 7-2 Note that the O-DU HW reference design is also feasible for O-CU and integrated O-CU/ O-DU . 7-2 7-2

### 2.2.1 O-DU High-Level Functional Block Diagram

# 28 7-2
Figure 2-1 shows the major functional blocks of O-DU . The digital processing unit handles the baseband processing 7-2 workload. To make the processing more efficient, an accelerator can be used to assist with the baseband workload processing. The memory devices include the random-access memory (RAM) for temporary storage of data while flash memory is used for codes and logs. The storage device is for persistent storage. The external network cards can be used for fronthaul or backhaul connection. The baseboard management controller (BMC) is a microcontroller which monitors hardware operation on motherboard. The clock circuits provide digital processing unit with required clock signals.

# 4 Figure 2-1: O-DU Functional Block Diagram.
7-2

### 2.2.2 O-DU Hardware Design Description

# 5 7-2
Figure 2-2 describes the various components and connections inside the O-DU white box. 7-2

# 8 Figure 2-2: O-DU Hardware Block Diagram
7-2 M A c ce le ra to r B a s e b o a rd a n a g e m e n C o n tro lle r C lo ck t D ig it a l P ro c e s s in g U n it

# D D R R A M
F la s h M e m o ry S to ra g e D riv e s E th e rn e t C a rd As described in the previous section, the O-DU hardware can be implemented with different design choices. Here, we 7-2 use a SoC design-based as an example which performs most of the workload for O-DU . The accelerator can be used 7-2 to perform other functions based on the overall performance requirement. Several Ethernet controllers are also used for front haul link, back haul link and remote console control connections. The other parts include RAM, flash memory, and hard drive storage. The JTAG and USB ports are provided for hardware debug and local connection if needed. Finally, BMC block is mainly responsible for monitoring the hardware status of the motherboard.

### 2.2.3 O-DU Hardware Components

# 7 7-2
In this section, we describe the details of the O-DU hardware component’s requirements, their features and 7-2 parameters. The component selection is based on the use case requirements which are listed in the hardware architecture and requirements document [6].

# 11 2.2.3.1 Digital Processing Unit
This example of the digital processing unit in O-DU is based on the General-Purpose Processor (GPP). 7-2 a. Digital Processing Unit Requirement The GPP requirements are listed in the following table.

# 15 Table 2-1: The Processor Feature List
Item Name Description # of Cores 16 # of Threads 32 Base Frequency 2.20 GHz Max Turbo Frequency 3.00 GHz Cache 22 MB Thermal Design Power (TDP) 100W Max Memory Size (dependent on memory type) 512 GB Memory Types DDR4 Max # of Memory Channels 4 Interfaces: The interface specifications on the main board are as follows: Memory Channel Interfaces: The system memory capacity, type and related information are described in the following table.

# 21 Table 2-2: The Memory Channel Feature List
Item Name Description Memory Types DDR4 # of Memory Channels 4 ECC LRDIMM Up to 512GB ECC RDIMM Up to 256GB Memory Speed 2666/2400/2133MHz DIMM Sizes 128GB, 64GB, 32GB, 16GB Memory Voltage 1.2 V PCIe: PCIe Gen 3 should be supported by the processor. There are total of 32 PCIe lanes with 128 Gb/s bandwidth. The 32 PCIe lanes can be divided into two x16 slots by using a riser card. Ethernet: The system should be capable to offer aggregated 48 Gb/s Ethernet bandwidth. The breakout the ports are discussed in later section. When higher Ethernet bandwidth required, an Ethernet card can be installed in one of the PCIe slot. b. Digital Processing Unit Design The digital processing unit is a system-on-a-chip (SoC) device which is a 64-bit multi-core server class processor. This SoC includes an integrated Platform Controller Hub (PCH), integrated high-speed I/O, Integrated Memory Controllers (IMC), and four integrated 10 Gigabit Ethernet ports. The SOC supports 512-bit wide vector processing instruction set. It also supports hardware virtualization to enable dynamic provisioning of services as communication service providers extend network functions virtualization (NFV). Figure 2-2 shows the major functional blocks of the digital processing unit.

# 13 2.2.3.2 Hardware Accelerator
Hardware accelerators can be used in O-DU to offload computationally intensive functions and to optimize the 7-2 performance under varying traffic and loading conditions. The acceleration functional requirements and implementation are system designer’s choice; however, the O-DU shall meet the minimum system performance requirements under 7-2 various loading and deployment conditions. In most cases, a Field Programmable Gate Array (FPGA) or Application Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC) based PCIe card can be used to optimize the system performance. The FPGA(s) are part of a Network Interface Controller (NIC) that further provides connectivity services.

# 20 2.2.3.2.1 Accelerator Design Solution 1
Channel coding for Low-Density Parity Codes (LDPC) and fronthaul compression requires a significant amount of bit level processing and is well suited to a fine-grained FPGA architecture and/or low cost/power structured ASIC. Options include:
- Virtualization: Multi-channel DMA, Virtual machine integration, load balancing functions
- Look-aside FEC: LDPC (de)coding, Polar (de)coding, Rate (De)Matcher, (De) Interleaver, Cyclic Redundancy

# 26 Check (CRC), Hybrid Automatic Repeat request (HARQ) retransmission
- Bump-in-wire Fronthaul: compression / decompression for latency and bandwidth reduction
a. Accelerator Requirements Hardware and firmware requirements for this accelerator design are given in Table 2-3 and Table 2-4, respectively.

# 31 Table 2-3: Accelerator Hardware Feature List
Item Name Description PCIe (Interface with digital processing Gen4 x16 (and lower) unit） Form factor FHHL Connectivity 2x QSFP28/56 FPGA Logic Elements: 1437K M20K Memory: 139Mb Quad A53 Hard Processor Sub-system 100Gb xHAUL for FH, BH & MH traffic shaping. Optional FPGA NIC Device co-processing. DDR Main 8+8+1GB DDR4 Flash (FPGA images) >=1 Gbit BMC Telemetry, Security, remote upgrade Clocking For O-RAN C1, C2, C3 & C4 Fronthaul eCPRI, RoE IEEE1914.3, O-RAN WG4 GPS SMA for 1 PPS & 10MHz (in/out) Operating Temperature (ambient) NEBS Compliant Power <75W (without optional NIC device) Clock Accuracy Low-Jitter, configurable clock ranging from 10MHz to 750MHz. Option for OCXO (TCXO as standard)

# 3 Table 2-4: Accelerator Firmware Feature List
Item Name Description Remote system upgrade Securely upgradable FPGA flash image Queuing 64 Queues supported equally split between UL & DL. NR LDPC Encoding with, interleaving and rate-matching. NR LDPC Decoding with sub-block de-interleaving function of reverse rate matching. LDPC Acceleration Early Termination, CRC attachment and HARQ buffering. 5G Throughput: DL 14.8Gbps, UL 3.2Gbps Load balancer distributes the pending encoder/decoder requests to Load Balancing (channel coding) encoder/decoders Code block based interface. Software enablement by BBDEV API (DPDK) Descriptor Format (channel coding) https://www.dpdk.org/ https://doc.dpdk.org/guides/prog_guide/bbdev.html In-line compression/decompression for Mu-Law, block-floating Fronthaul Compression point and quantization according to the O-RAN WG4 specification. Support for:
- FPGA Flashing upgrade
Open programmable acceleration • Firmware version reporting environment • PCIe diagnostics
- Ethernet diagnostics
- Temperature and voltage telemetry information
b. Accelerator Design Figure 2-3 illustrates Accelerator Design 1 without optional NIC Device. Figure 2-4 illustrates the Accelerator

# 3 Design 1 with optional NIC Device.
Figure 2-3: Accelerator Design 1 without optional NIC Device Figure 2-4: Accelerator Design 1 with optional NIC Device

# 9 2.2.3.2.2 Accelerator Design Solution 2
The O-DU system is typically implemented using a multi-core processor and one or more hardware accelerators. 7-2 Parts of O-DU protocol stack can be implemented in software running on the multi-core processors, some of the 7-2 computationally intensive L1 and L2 functions are offloaded to FPGA-based or similar hardware accelerators. This is a programmable hardware, which provides both flexibility and high computing capabilities. a. Accelerator Requirement The accelerator unit comprises one or more FPGAs (e.g., two FPGAs), sufficient amount of DDR4 memory, and synchronization circuitry where one of FPGAs is used for L1 functional offload and the other one is used to perform fronthaul connectivity functions/protocols. The FPGA for L1 offload uses dedicated cores for channel encoding/decoding as well as FPGA and processing resources for running L1 functions such as but not P P r L r L o o D i g i t a l c e s s i n g U , L 2 , L 1 ( p a D i g i t a l c e s s i n g U n , L 2 , L 1 ( p a r t ) r i n t t ) i t

# P C Ie G e n 4 x 1
O r lo w e r (2 0 0

# P C Ie
G e n 4 x1 6 & 1 0 M H z

# 6 C o n

# G )
P

# P C Ie G e n 4 x8
O r lo w e r (1 0 0 G )

# P C Ie G e n 4 x8
O r lo w e r (1 0 0 G ) F n e r o , 2 H z C P c t c e , 3 o nP

# G A iv it y & L
s s i n g . , 4 S y n c

# F P G A n e c t iv it y &
r o c e s s i n g , 2 , 3 , 4 S y

# N I C
L . n c

# F H 2 x 2 x 5 6 G b p
O r lo w e r

# F H 2 x2 x5 6 G b p
O r lo w e r s s limited to rate matching and de-matching, interleaving and scrambling, demodulation and HARQ buffer management as well as OFDM modulation/demodulation and channel estimation.

# 3 Key features of the FPGA-based accelerator include:

# 4 • 2X10/25G eCPRI or Ethernet open fronthaul interface
- Built-in SyncE/IEEE 1588v2 synchronization + external reference timing

# 6 • L1 offloading options

# 7 ‒ LDPC encoding and decoding

# 8 ‒ Polar encoding and decoding
‒ HARQ management with on board DDR memory (including DDR controller and interfaces) ‒ Other L1 offloading candidates include PRACH detection, MIMO encoding and decoding, channel estimation ‒ Partial or full L1 functions can be offloaded. It is recommended to offload the user-plane channel coding chain and part of or the entire control-plane channel coding chain to the hardware accelerator.
- PCIe Gen3 x16, two Gen4 x8, or PCIe Gen3 x16 bifurcated to two Gen3 x8

# 16 • GPP supported
- Standard PCIe FHHL card (It is assumed that the hardware accelerators further perform NIC functions).

# 18 • 2x SFP28 for 25G Ethernet

# 19 • 8GB DDR4 memory for buffering

# 20 • Power consumption not to exceed 75W

# 21 The accelerator requirements are summarized in Table 2-5.

# 22 Table 2-5: Accelerator Hardware Component List
Item Name Description for FPGA 1 Description for FPGA 2 System Logic cells - 930K System Logic cells - 1,143K CLB LUT - 425K CLB LUT - 523K SoC SDFEC -8 CLB Flip-Flops -1,045K Resources DSP Slices - 4,272 DSP Slices - 1,968 BRAM - 38.0Mb BRAM - 34.6Mb URAM - 22.5Mb URAM - 36.0Mb Form Factor FHHL PCIe Form Factor x8 Gen1, Gen2, Gen3 interface to FPGA 2 and PCIe Interface x8 Gen1, Gen2, Gen3 interface to FPGA 1 have x16 to two x8 bifurcation On Board Total Capacity 4 GB in PL, upgradeable to 8GB Total Capacity 4 GB in PL, upgradeable to 8GB Memory Total Capacity 2 GB in PS, upgradeable to 4GB Total Capacity 2 GB in PS, upgradeable to 4GB Network 2xSFP28 optical interfaces to FPGA2 Interface(s) (User Configurable, includes 10/25 Ethernet) Other External Micro USB for JTAG support (FPGA programming and debug) and access to BMC Interface(s) Graphical GUI for monitoring the basic board parameters, monitoring temperature alerts, firmware upgrades for User interface BMC
- Power sequencing and reset
- Field upgrades
Board
- FPGA configuration and control
Management
- Clock configuration
Controller
- I2C bus access
- USB 2.0
Operating -5°C - 55°C Temperature Power < 75 W Clocking Low-Jitter, configurable clock ranging from10MHz to 750MHz Options 1 PPS input and output with assembly option for OCXO and TCXO The following are the accelerator’s functional and interface requirements.

# 5 Functional offload requirements:
One of the candidate functions for offloading is the LDPC encoder and decoder, which typically consists of computationally intensive and relatively highly power consuming functions. It must be noted that neither software implementation in CPU nor soft FPGA logic implementation would provide a highly power efficient solution while meeting/exceeding 3GPP NR user-plane encoder/decoder throughput and latency requirements, rather a hardened implementation of the FEC functions would be very power efficient. Downlink and uplink throughputs of up to 40Gbps and 18Gbps, respectively, are shown feasible with this architecture. Other candidate L1 functions for acceleration include CRC generation, segmentation, bit-level/sub-block interleaving and scrambling as well as FFT/IFFT processing, for which an FPGA can be used. For other symbol processing L1 functions which require heavy multiply and accumulation operations, FPGAs 1 and 2 have DSP blocks that can efficiently perform these operations. Polar encoding and/or decoding on the control-plane can also be offloaded to FPGA 1 resulting in high throughputs and low latencies.

# 17 Interface requirements:
PCIe: PCIe interface is widely used to provide interface between the GPP and hardware accelerators. FPGA devices have dedicated PCIe hard IP which facilitate implementation and quick setup of PCIe interface. They support both PCIe Gen3 x16 or PCIe Gen4 x8, which allow the FPGA device to interface with any GPP supporting either PCIe Gen3 x16 or PCIe Gen4 x8 interface. Fronthaul: FPGA devices can support various speed grades and any fronthaul protocols, customers can use off-the-shelf eCPRI or Ethernet IPs to quickly implement and configure any fronthaul interface protocol. Serial transceivers: FPGA devices have SerDes resources to implement various connectivity speeds (e.g., 33 Gb/s) per SerDes, 10G/25G/50G/100G Ethernet connections can use these SerDes resources. Ethernet MAC speed: FPGA devices have hardened implementations of Ethernet MAC that support speeds of 100 Gbps and above. The Ethernet MAC IP allows power-efficient implementation of high-speed Ethernet connectivity. In the example shown in Figure 2-3, FPGA 1 and FPGA 2 can use the hard 100Gbps MAC IPs to connect each other, allowing the L1 and fronthaul functions to be distributed across these two FPGAs with less connectivity overhead. For other Ethernet MACs such as 10G/25G Ethernet, they provide soft Ethernet MAC IPs, so when implementing eCPRI or Ethernet fronthaul functions, 10G/25G Ethernet MAC can be used. b. Accelerator Design The hardware accelerator supports GPP. Figure 2-5 illustrates a two-chip acceleration architecture comprising two FPGAs with multi-lane PCIe interfaces toward the CPU and external connectivity toward O-RU (s) via 7-2 eCPRI and O-CU(s) through GbE connectivity. The example architecture further depicts multi-lane Gen3 or Gen4 PCIe interfaces between each FPGA and the CPU. The FPGAs communicate through high-bandwidth

# 8 Ethernet (GbE) transport.
Figure 2-5: Example 2-chip FPGA-based Hardware Acceleration in O-DU 7-2

# 11 2.2.3.2.3 Accelerator Design Solution 3
Channel coding for LDPC and fronthaul compression requires a significant amount of bit level processing and is well suited to a fine-grained structured ASIC. Features include:
- Virtualization: Multi-channel DMA, Virtual machine integration, load balancing functions
- Look-aside FEC: Turbo (de)coding, LDPC (de)coding, Rate (De)Matcher, (De) Interleaver, CRC, HARQ
retransmission & (de) interleaver. a. Accelerator Requirement Accelerator Hardware and Firmware features are listed in Table 2-6 and Table 2-7, respectively.

# 20 Table 2-6: Accelerator Hardware Feature List
Item Name Description PCIe Gen3 x16 Form factor HHHL DDR DDR4 (64-bit +ECC), 2667Mbps Interface for HARQ buffering E t h Fe 1 In rn e t e r t (1 fa c e

# 0 / 2 5 G
X ( ) L o a r n

# A R

# C P
d P MUa r
- b
t ia a s l L e d ) [B if u r

# P C Ie
c a G t e d ] P C Ie In e n 3 x 1 6 (G e

# F P

# F P
n n Gf Ge

# 0 0 G E th e rn e t
it y ) F r o E n th a u l In te

# P R I
e Board Management Controller Telemetry, Security. Power <35W

# 4 Table 2-7: Accelerator Firmware Feature List
Item Name Description Queuing 64 Queues supported equally split between UL & DL. NR LDPC Encoding with, interleaving and rate-matching. NR LDPC Decoding with sub-block de-interleaving function of reverse rate matching. LDPC Acceleration Early Termination, CRC attachment and HARQ buffering. 5G Throughput: DL 23Gbps, UL 8Gbps Load balancer distributes the pending encoder/decoder requests to Load Balancing (channel coding) encoder/decoders Code block and transport block based interface. Software enablement by BBDEV API (DPDK) Descriptor Format (channel coding) https://www.dpdk.org/ https://doc.dpdk.org/guides/prog_guide/bbdev.html b. Accelerator Design The following diagram shows the structured ASIC based accelerator design. Structured ASIC Digital Processing Unit PCIe Gen 3x16 LDPC Or lower (100G) Code/Transport L3,L2,L1(part) Block

# 10 Figure 2-6: Structured ASIC Accelerator Design

# 11 2.2.3.3 Baseboard Management Controller
BMC is used to perform hardware power control (power on, power off and power cycle), monitor hardware status (temperatures, voltages, etc), monitor Basic I/O System (BIOS)/ Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI) firmware status, and log system events. It provides remote access via shared or dedicated NIC. System user can do console access via serial or physical/Kernel-based Virtual Machine (KVM). The BMC has dedicated RAM and flash memory. It provides access via serial port or Ethernet port. Figure 2-2 describes the BMC connections with related components.

### 2.2.4 Synchronization and Timing

# 5 2.2.4.1 Synchronization and Timing Design 1
This section describes the synchronization and timing mechanism that is used in the O-DU . 7-2 a. Hardware Requirements

# 8 The O-DU shall support following timing synchronization methods:
7-2

# 9 1. GPS Synchronization
2. Ethernet based IEEE1588V2 Synchronization

# 11 3. BeiDou Synchronization

# 12 4. BeiDou and GPS switching
b. Hardware Design Depending on the timing distribution topologies used, the O-DU system clock is able to synchronize with the 7-2 Grand Master Clock (GMC) using IEEE1588 via either the front haul NIC or backhaul NIC, or synchronizing timing using Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS). In the case of IEEE1588, the Physical Hardware Clock (PHC) within the NIC is synchronized with the GMC first, then the O-DU system clock is synchronized 7-2 with the PHC. The O-DU is also capable to provide clock to the O-RU via front haul if needed. When 7-2 7-2 GNSS becomes available to O-DU , it will be able to synchronize the system clock to Coordinated Universal 7-2 Time (UTC). Figure 2-7 outlines the O-DU timing synchronization mechanisms. 7-2

# 22 Figure 2-7: O-DU Timing Synchronization
7-2

# 24 2.2.4.2 Synchronization and Timing Design 2
This section describes the synchronization and timing mechanism that is used in the hardware accelerator board. a. Hardware Requirements Each hardware accelerator board that supports connectivity functions (e.g., O-RAN fronthaul) in O-DU7-2 must be able to support external synchronization I/O and to receive or transmit 1 PPS reference clock source in order to ensure synchronization across network.

# P H C
N Backhaul IC S yC s te lo c mk

# G N

# P H C

# S S
1pps F ro n th N a u IC l b. Hardware Design The accelerator board can operate in the master or slave mode when supporting IEEE 1588v2 timing/synchronization. It can generate 1 PPS reference clock for synchronization in the master mode and can receive the 1 PPS reference clock in the slave mode for internal synchronization. The timing circuitry of the accelerator board is shown in Figure 2-8. Two FPGA SerDes transceivers are used to receive and transmit

# 6 SyncE TX and RX clocks.

# 10 Figure 2-8: HW Acceleration Board Timing and Synchronization

### 2.2.5 External Interface Ports

# 12 The external interfaces of O-DU are described below.
7-2 a. Hardware Requirements The following table shows the external ports or slots that the system provided.

# 15 Table 2-8: External Port List
Item Name Description Ethernet Octave Gigabit Ethernet LAN connectors Dual 10GbE Base-T Ethernet connectors Dual 10GbE SFP+ Faber Ethernet connectors 2x100G QSFP28 or 2x25G SFP28 USB 2 USB 3.0 ports Serial Port 1 COM port via RJ45 Antenna port 1 SMA connector for GNSS b. Hardware Design The digital processing unit is a SOC device which provides the external ports described in the hardware requirement section. The system includes 2 USB 3.0 ports, and the serial RS232 port that can be used for Console Redirection, e.g. Out-of-Band Management. The system provides eight 1Gbps and four 10Gbps Ethernet ports. There are two or four 25G eCPRI ports in system depends on the accelerator card used. The system also provides a RF interface to connect GNSS antenna. The following diagram outlines the external interfaces that supported.

# T C X
S O y n / O G c E R X C lo c k

# C X O R e fe re

# P S (1 P P S )
n c e

# P L L
S y O n c t h E e

# T X C

# P P S
r C lo lo c k c k s S S e e rD e s rD e s (IE E FES P G A

### 2.2.6 O-DU Firmware

# 3 7-2
BIOS and BMC firmware are needed in the system and shall be installed.

### 2.2.7 Mechanical
The mechanical design for mother board, chassis, and cooling are listed in this section.

# 7 • Mother Board
The mechanical layout of the mother board shows the location of major components and interface ports. The following diagram also provides the dimension of the board.

# O -D U 7-2
A E

# G N SS
n te n n a P o rt th e rn e t P o rts

# 3 • Chassis
The 1U rack mount chassis contains the layout of the power supply, Solid State Drive (SSD) and fans. The chassis dimension is showed in following figure.

### 2.2.8 Power Unit
In a fully loaded system with two PCIe slots populated with 75W each, the system power consumption should be less than 400W. The total system power requirement shall be kept less than 80% of the power supply capacity. a. Hardware Requirements The power is provided by 500W High-Efficiency power supply with Power Management Bus (PMBus) 1.2. The power support input and output power rails are listed below.

# 13 AC Input: 100-240V, 50-60Hz, 6.6A max

# 14 DC Output: +3.3V: 12A

# 15 +5V: 15A

# 16 +5V standby: 3A

# 17 +12V: 41A

# 18 -12V: 0.2A
b. Hardware Requirements The O-DU chassis includes one 500W power supply unit. The power supply unit is auto-switching capable, 7-2 which enables it to automatically sense and operate at a 100v to 240v input voltage. The power supply unit features are listed in the following table.

### 2.2.9 Thermal
Active cooling with up to 6 fans is integrated in the chassis. The hardware acceleration cards described in Section 2.2.2.2 use passive cooling and a custom heatsink and is equipped with temperature sensors. It is designed to operate in temperatures ranging from -5°C to +55°C.

### 2.2.10 Environmental and Regulations
The O-DU hardware system is RoHS Compliant. The power supply unit is EMC FCC/CISPR Class B compliant. 7-2 Table 2-10 lists the environmental related features and parameters.

# 9 Table 2-10: Environmental Features
Item Name Description Operating Temperature -5°C to +55°C Non-operating Temperature -40°C to 70°C Operating Relative Humidity 8% to 90% (non-condensing) Non-operating Relative Humidity 5% to 95% (non-condensing) The hardware accelerator described in Section 2.2.2.2 is designed to operate in indoor environments and in temperatures ranging from -5°C to +55°C.

## 2.3 O-RU Hardware Reference Design

### 2.3.1 O-RU High-Level Functional Block Diagram

# 5 7-2
Figure provides a high-level functional block diagram depicting the major HW/SW components. It also highlights the internal/external interfaces that are required. This document shows how to implement the system defined by the IPC-

# 8 HAR [6] document.
O-RU7-2 O-RAN FH Digital RF To/From eCPRI Processing Processing O-DU 7-2 Unit Unit Local timing from CDR GNSS (optional) Timing Unit Local timing from GNSS or equivalent Power Unit

# 10 Figure 2-12: High-Level Functional Block Diagram

### 2.3.2 O-RU Hardware Components for FPGA based Design

# 11 7-2
General block diagrams for 2T2R and 4T4R O-RU examples are shown subsequently. 7-2 Figure 2-13 shows a 2T2R implementation and Figure 2-14 shows a 4T4R implementation. In each of these diagrams, the Digital Processing Unit is further detailed in 2.3.2.1. Items under the umbrella of RF Processing Unit, including the Transceiver, RFFE and other RF items are reviewed in additional detail in 2.3.2.2. Clock and Synchronization are reviewed in 2.3.4. The Power Unit is detailed in 2.3.7. TR Tx Rx control enable enable bypass enable Rx0 RFFE Tx0 PA enable SERDES Digital Processing Unit ORx0 ORx1 Port A SPI Tx1 PA enable RFFE Network SPI Clean Rx1 Clock Clock bypass enable Clock Transceiver Synchronizer TRx Reference Power Unit Figure 2-13: 2T2R General Block Diagram with TR switch Figure 2-14: 4T4R General Block Diagram with TR switch In following section, we describe their functionality, interfaces and performance of every block in the RF Processing Unit. Since device integration is an ongoing activity, chip boundaries may be fluid and some functionalities may move from one block to another or entire functionalities may be absorbed into other blocks. The sections below describe the functional blocks independent of which physical device they may reside in. C lo ck D TR Tx Rx control enable enable igita l P ro ce ssin g U n it Network Clean SPI Clock Clock Sy n ch ro n ize P o w e r U n it r SERDES SPI T ra n sce TRx Reference ive r Rx0 Tx0 ORx0 ORx1 Tx1 Rx1 Rx0 Tx0 ORx0 ORx1 Tx1 Rx1 bypass bypass bypass bypass RFFE RFFE RFFE RFFE enable PA PA enable enable PA PA enable enable enable enable enable P o rt A

# 11 JESD204B Serdes will be used for 4T4R
- Resource requirement: FPGA resource requirements for 2T2R and 4T4R are shown in Table 2-11 and

# 13 Table 2-12.

# 14 Table 2-11: Resource requirement for 2T2R O-RU
7-2 Module FF LUT BRAM18 DSP Model A 343800 171900 1000 900 IFFT & CP+ 7763 5323 27 23 IFFT & CP- 7763 5323 27 23 PRACH frontend 4000 3000 32 50 DUC 4820 4346 0 108 DDC 4820 4346 0 108 CFR 11470 6136 22 36 DPD 34269 13250 188 87 JESD204B 4314 4285 0 0 Fronthaul(eCPRI) 10000 8000 1 0 Other 8000 5000 100 12 Total 97219 59009 397 447

# 16 Table 2-12: Resource requirement for 4T4R O-RU
7-2 Module FF LUT DSP BRAM18 Resource Mapping 10000 8000 0 102 PreCoding & pilot lns 5000 4000 16 4 IFFT+CP 6466 3952 15 75 Resource De-Mapping 10000 8000 0 181 FFT+CP 6466 3952 15 75 PRACH Filtering 8000 6000 36 16 Sub-Total 45932 33904 82 453 ChFIR 2832 2686 84 0 DUC 5148 3756 36 0 CFR 25676 12372 96 48 DPD 45770 17643 105 217 AGC 1000 600 8 4 DDC 1716 1252 12 0 UL_ChFIR 2832 2686 84 0 JESD2048 9900 11127 0 0 eCPRI 15000 14000 0 50 total 155806 100026 507 772
- Processor requirement: For device model A, the processor will be used, one is used for device control and
management plane functions, the other one is for Digital Pre-Distortion (DPD) feedback path. For device model C, dual-core ARM cortex-A53 will be used, similarly one is used for device control and management plane functions, the other one is for DPD feedback path.
- Power requirement: Power estimations for 2T2R and 4T4R are shown in Figure 2-15 and Figure 2-16.

# 8 Figure 2-15: Power estimation for 2T2R O-RU
7-2

# 11 Figure 2-17: FPGA Reference Design Diagram
For the processor portion, the internal RAM resource may not be enough. So the external DDR is needed to let the processor handle more RAM consuming functions such as operation system or stack protocols like Network Configuration Protocol (NetConf) Client. For the O-RU design, the DDR3 with 256Mb*16bit 7-2 memory capacity is enough. The interface between the DDR and processor can be memory interface generator (MIG). The external Flash is used to store operation system related files, calibration information of the RF portion, NetConf related files, FPGA firmware and so on. For this O-RU design, the flash with 7-2 2Gb memory capacity is enough. The online debug function is performed by external Ethernet PHY with an RJ45 connector. This allows the administrator to visit the internal function of the O-RU and control it. 7-2 The interface between the DDR and processor can be Media-Independent interface (MII). The Ethernet PHY device can be very general 100M Ethernet Transceiver. The FPGA has one Serdes lane connected to optical module to perform the fronthaul link between O-RU and O-DU /FHM . Another 4 Serdes 7-2 7-2 7-2 lanes of the FPGA are needed to connect one transceiver of the O-RU to transmit or receive IQ sample 7-2 by the interface of JESD204B while the FPGA needs synchronized clock signals to work well. The interface between PLL and FPGA should be Low-Voltage Differential Signaling (LVDS).

# 9 2.3.2.2 RF Processing Unit
For the RF processing unit of O-RU , it will perform functionalities of ADC, DAC, LO, down converter, up converter 7-2 etc.

# 12 2.3.2.2.1 Transceiver Reference Design
For the O-RU the sampling function and frequency conversion function can be performed by transceiver. The 7-2 purpose of using the transceiver is to saving power and size of the PCB. The Transceiver is to convert between high- speed baseband data and a low-level RF for both transmit and receive signal chain. In addition, the transceiver is responsible for orchestration of control signals not limited to the PA enable, LNA enable, LNA bypass as well as other required system level signals. a. Hardware Requirements

# 19 Include the requirements for this component.
- Interface Requirements: The interface requirements for the Transceivers are list in Table 2-13.

# 21 Table 2-13: Interface requirements of the Transceiver
Item Name Description High Speed Data High speed data represents the baseband information being transmitted or received. Depending on the configuration of the ORAN device, various bandwidths may be supported leading to a range of payload rates. Options for data include parallel data paths, JESD204B and JESD204C. Up to 8 lanes in each direction may be supported although fewer is preferred. Options such as DPD and numeric precision will impact the payload rate. Several options are shown in the following table. All data represents IQ 16-bit (N=16) precision. Some devices support IQ 12 bit (N’=12) which may reduce the required data rates accordingly. The tables below assume 1 ORx for 2 TRx. From Table 2-14 and shown by the capacity of a lane, typically 12.5 GBPS for JESD204B and 25 GBPS for JESD204C. Reference Clock The transceiver should receive a reference for internal clock and LO synthesis needs. This (Device Clock) reference clock can function as the JESD204 Device Clock where the interface is by SERDES. The specific clock frequency is determined by the operation mode of the transceiver and may range from 1Hz upward. SYSREF If the transceiver supports SERDES, then it should accept a SYSREF signal from the clock or data source as appropriate. The number and configuration for the SYSREF is dependent on the operating mode of the transceiver. SYNCB If the transceiver supports SERDES, then it should also support a SYNCB for each link as appropriate. Control Control of the transceiver is by way of 3 or 4 wire SPI or IIC functioning as a slave. Support for 1.8V control is required and tolerance of 3.3V is preferred. The transceiver may optionally include a separate SPI master for control of peripheral devices as required. GPIO The transceiver may optionally include GPIO for controlling peripherals including but not limited to PAs, LNAs and other devices. These GPIOs should at a minimum support 1.8V outputs but the specifics will be determined by the connected devices. The GPIO should also support input from peripheral devices. Input should at a minimum support 1.8V logic with tolerance of 3.3V preferred. Tx Enable The transceiver should provide an output to support enabling and disabling the external devices in the transmit chain such as a TxVGA (optional) and PA. Rx Enable The transceiver should provide an output to support enabling and disabling the external devices in the transmit chain such as a RF Front End Module or LNA. LNA Bypass The transceiver should provide an output to support bypassing the LNA appropriately in the condition of a large blocker if so required. RF Outputs RF outputs including the main Tx signal should support 50 ohm or 100 ohms signalling. These outputs can be either single ended or differential. RF Inputs RF inputs including the main Rx and the Observation Rx (ORx) (for DPD) should support ohm or 100 ohms signalling. These inputs can be either single ended or differential. The device should support at least 1 ORx. Table 2-14: Payload with DPD in Digital Device (GBPS Rx/Tx) Bandwidth Parallel JESD204B JESD204C Parallel JESD204B JESD204C (MHz) 2T2R 4T4R

# 20 2.95/5.9 3.69/7.37 3.04/6.08 5.9/11.8 7.37/14.75 6.08/12.17

# 50 5.9/11.8 7.37/14.75 6.08/12.17 11.8/23.59 14.75/29.49 12.17/24.33

# 100 11.8/23.59 14.75/29.49 12.17/24.33 23.59/47.19 29.49/58.98 24.33/48.66
Table 2-15: Payload with DPD in Transceiver (GBPS Rx/Tx) Bandwidth Parallel JESD204B JESD204C Parallel JESD204B JESD204C (MHz) 2T2R 4T4R

# 20 1.97/1.97 2.46/2.46 2.03/2.03 3.93/3.93 4.92/4.92 4.06/4.06

# 50 3.93/3.93 4.92/4.92 4.06/4.06 7.86/7.86 9.83/9.83 8.11/8.11

# 100 7.86/7.86 9.83/9.83 8.11/8.11 15.73/15.73 19.66/19.66 16.22/16.22
- Algorithm Requirements: The transceiver is required to provide appropriate algorithms to sustain RF
operation including but not limited to Rx AGC, Tx Power control. DPD and CFR may be included either in the transceiver or in the digital baseband device making the trade-offs in Payload shown in

# 4 Table 2-11 and Table 2-12.
- Device Configuration: The transceiver should support either 2T2R or 4T4R. In addition, at least one
ORx path should be supported. Additional ORx paths are allowed as required for the application.
- Power Dissipation: Total dissipation of the TRx should be less than 6W for 4T4R.

# 8 • RF Specifications are given in Table 2-16.

# 10 Table 2-16: RF specifications in Transceiver
Parameter Symbol Min Typ Max Unit Test Conditions/Comments TRANSMITTERS Center Frequency 650 6000 MHz Transmitter Synthesis 450 MHz Bandwidth Transmitter Large 200 MHz Signal Bandwidth Transmitter Attenuation 0 32 dB Signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) Power Control Range maintained for attenuation between 0 dB and 20 dB Transmitter Attenuation 0.05 dB Power Control Resolution Adjacent Channel 20 MHz LTE at −12 dBFS Leakage Ratio (ACLR) −66 dB 75 MHz < f ≤ 2800 MHz In Band Noise Floor 0 dB attenuation; in band noise falls 1 dB for each dB of attenuation for attenuation between 0 dB and 20 dB −154.5 dBm/Hz 600 MHz < f ≤ 3000 MHz Out of Band Noise 0 dB attenuation; 3 × bandwidth/2 Floor offset −153 dBm/Hz 600 MHz < f ≤ 3000 MHz Maximum Output 0 dBFS, continuous wave tone Power into 50 Ω load, 0 dB transmitter attenuation dBm 600 MHz < f ≤ 3000 MHz Third Order Output OIP3 0 dB transmitter attenuation Intermodulation Intercept Point dBm 600 MHz < f ≤ 5700 MHz Parameter Symbol Min Typ Max Unit Test Conditions/Comments Error Vector Magnitude EVM (Third Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) Test Signals)

# 1900 MHz LO 0.6 % 50 kHz RF PLL loop bandwidth

# 3800 MHz LO 0.53 % 300 kHz RF PLL loop bandwidth
OBSERVATION ORx RECEIVER Center Frequency 450 6000 MHz Gain Range 30 dB IIP3 improves decibel for decibel for the first 18 dB of gain attenuation; QEC performance optimized for 0 dB to 6 dB of attenuation only Analog Gain Step 0.5 dB For attenuator steps from 0 dB to dB Receiver Bandwidth 450 MHz Maximum Useable PHIGH 0 dB attenuation; increases Input Level decibel for decibel with attenuation; continuous wave corresponds to −1 dBFS at ADC −11 dBm 75 MHz < f ≤ 3000 MHz Integrated Noise −58.5 dBFS 450 MHz integration bandwidth −57.5 dBFS 491.52 MHz integration bandwidth Third-Order Input IIP3 Maximum observation receiver Intermodulation gain; test condition: PHigh - 11 Intercept Point dB/tone Narrow Band

# 1900 MHz 15 dBm

# 2600 MHz 16.5 dBm

# 3800 MHz 18 dBm
Wide Band IM3 products>130 MHz at

# 2600 MHz 11 dBm 11 dB/tone ; 491.52 MSPS

# 38000 MHz 13 dBm
Third-Order IM3 Intermodulation Product −70 dBc 600 MHz < f ≤ 3000 MHz Spurious-Free Dynamic SFDR 64 dB Non IMx related spurs, does not Range include HDx; (PHIGH − 11) dB input signal Harmonic Distortion (PHIGH − 11) dB input signal Second Order Harmonic HD2 −80 dBc In band HD falls within ±100 Distortion Product MHz Parameter Symbol Min Typ Max Unit Test Conditions/Comments −73 dBc Out of band HD falls within ±225 MHz Third-Order Harmonic HD3 −70 dBc In band HD falls within ±100 Distortion Product MHz −65 dBc Out of band HD falls within ±225 MHz RECEIVERS Center Frequency 6000 MHz Gain Range 30 dB Analog Gain Step 0.5 dB Attenuator steps from 0 dB to 6 dB dB Attenuator steps from 6 dB to 30 dB Receiver Bandwidth 200 MHz Maximum Useable PHIGH 0 dB attenuation, increases Input Level decibel for decibel with attenuation; continuous wave = 1800 MHz; corresponds to −1 dBFS at ADC −11 dBm 75 MHz < f ≤ 3000 MHz Noise Figure NF 0 dB attenuation, at receiver port dB 600 MHz < f ≤ 3000 MHz Input Third-Order IIP3 Intercept Point Difference Product, IIP3, d

# 2600 MHz (Wideband) 17 dBm Two (PHIGH − 9) dB tones near band

# 2600 MHz (Midband) 21 dBm edge
Sum Product, IIP3, s

# 2600 MHz (Wideband_ 20 dBm Two (PHIGH − 9) dB tones, at bandwidth/6 offset from the LO
HD3 HD3 (PHIGH − 6) dB continuous wave tone at bandwidth/6 offset from the LO −66 dBc 600 MHz < f ≤ 4800 MHz b. Hardware Design For the O-RU the sampling function and frequency conversion function can be performed by transceiver. 7-2 Usually the transceiver is integrated by ADC, DAC, LO, down converter, up converter and so on. The block diagram of transceiver design is shown in Figure 2-18. SCLK CSB SPI Port SDO SDIO Ext R L E O F / C C S l l Y o o S c c R k k E I I F n n Syn & c S h C y r l n o o t n c h i k z e , a s t is ion CPIO1 GPIO2 In C t o e n r t f r a o c l e GPIO3 Receiver Block 4 GPIO# Receiver Block 3 Receiver Block 2 Decimation Receiver Block 1 pDFeIRcimation AGCpDFeIRcimation Rx4 ADC TuninAgGCpDFeIRcimation Rx3 ADC RSSTIuninAgGCpFIR Rx2 ADC OverloRaSdSTIuninAgGC Rx1 ADC Device MaOnvaegrelomRaeSdnSTIutning Device MaOnvaegrelomRaeSdnSIt Device MaOnvaegrelomaednt Device Management Transmit Block 4 SYNCIN Transmit Block 3 Tra T n r s a m n i s t m B i l t o c B k lo 2 ck 1 SERDES Out Interpolation Tx4 Tx3 Tx2 Tx1 DA D C A D C A D C AC Dev D ic e e v T M I D i p u c n a F e n e te n I v i T R n M I r a i p u c ng p g a F n e t o e n eI i T l R n M mI a r a p u ng p g t a F n et i o e o n eI i n T l R nm n a r a p u t g p g t eF n i o e o nI i l n R m n a t g t e io n n t Se J r E i S a D l I 2 n 0 t 4 e B rf / a C c e S S Y E N RD C E O S U In T Device Management DPD Engine Observation Receiver Decimation pFIR

# O O O O R R R R x x x x 1 2 3 4 ADC Tu A R n S G i S n C I g
Overload Device Management Optional Features Figure 2-18: Transceiver Reference Design Diagram (Optional elements are highlighted in Grey) The definition of the input/output lines are as follows:
- REF Clock In is the differential reference input to the on-chip synthesizer. This may also function as the

# 5 SERDES Device Clock.

# 6 • SYSREF is a JESD204B/C differential synchronization signal.
- Ext LO/Clock Input is an optional input that can be used as an alternate LO or clocking signal.
- Rx1 through Rx4 are differential receiver inputs to their respective cores.
- Tx1 through Tx4 are differential transmitter output from their respective cores.
- ORx1 through ORx4 are differential observation receiver inputs.

# 11 • SCLK is the serial control clock input.
- CSB is the active low device select for the control interface.
- SDO is the serial data output for the control interface. This pin may be omitted for 3-pin control
implementations.
- SDIO is a bidirectional serial data interface. In 4-pin mode, this pin functions as the serial data input.
- GPIO1 – GPIO# are general purpose IO signals used for interrupts, enables, test mode and resets. These
are used as interface and control for peripheral devices including controllers, TxVGAs, PA, LNA and similar devices where SPI control is too slow.
- SYNCIN are differential pins associated with the receiver channels of the JESD204 interface. In not used,
they are typically grounded. Up to 4 pair may be supported.
- SERDES Out are differential JESD204B/C data output interfaces. Up to 8 lanes may be active.
- SERDES In are differential JESD204B/C data input interfaces. Up to 8 lanes may be active.
- SYNCOUT are differential pins associated with the transmitter channels of the JESD204 interface. If not
used, do not connect. Up to 4 pair may be supported.

# 3 2.3.2.2.2 Power Amplifier (PA) Reference Design
The Power Amplifier boosts the RF output to the level required for the base station class. a. Hardware Requirements The PA should have large enough gain to reduce the need for an additional driver. This will reduce cost and PCB space. The output power should be at least 27dBm (30dBm for 500mW/port to compensate for the loss of switch and antenna filter). The ACLR should be greater than 47dBc according to the related 3GPP test mode. DPD is needed to reduce the power consumption. The P1 dB requirement is closely related to the DPD algorithm.

# 10 Table 2-17: PA Requirements
Frequency band Band41 Band78 Additional Information Gain >33dB >33dB P3dB >34dBm >34dBm ACLR>=47dBc with DPD@100MHz NR 27dBm (30dBm for 500mW/port) >37dBm(500mW/port) Input return loss <-15dB <-15dB Output return loss <-15dB <-15dB Switching Speed <1us <1us HD2 >28dBc >28dBc CW 27dBM HD3 >30dBc >30dBc CW 27dBm

# 5 Table 2-18: Interface requirements of the transmit PA
Item Name Description Enable The enable input should be compatible with 1.8V logic and tolerate 3.3V as required. A logic high enables the PA. Logic low disables the device and places it in a minimum dissipation mode. RF Outputs RF outputs support 50-ohm single ended to properly interface to a directional coupler, isolator, switch or antenna. RF Inputs RF inputs should support 50 ohm, single ended match to the transceiver output or preamp. RF power detector Power detector (optional)
- Power Dissipation: Dissipation while enabled should not exceed ~3W.
b. Hardware Design RF is the input to the PA, RF is the output of the PA. V and V are the power inputs of the PA. PAEN is in out cc bias the control pin to disable or enable the PA. The input and output should match to 50 ohm as much as possible to reduce the reflection. V and V need capacitors to reduce the DC power ripples and give a short route to cc bias reduce the RF energy leakage. Table 2-19 shows the details. Vcc RFout RFin RFEN

# 15 Figure 2-19: PA Reference Design Diagram

# 16 2.3.2.2.3 Low Noise Amplifier (LNA) Reference Design
The purpose of the LNA is to boost the Rx signal to a level that can nominally interface directly to the transceiver. This block will typically be a 2-stage amplifier with a 2nd stage bypass. The frontend will also include a TR switch to shunt any Tx signal to a termination away from the amplifier. a. Hardware Requirements

# 4 Table 2-19: One stage LNA Requirements
Parameter Band 41 Band 78 Additional Information NF <1dB <1dB Gain >15dB >15dB P1dB >18dBm >18dBm Input return loss <-12dB <-12dB Output return loss <-15dB <-15dB Switching Speed <1us <1us IP3 >30dBm >30dBm 2 Tone CW -15dBm

# K >1 >1 up to f = 12.5 GHz
Max input power >15dBm >15dBm

# 6 • Device Configuration: Single or dual device.
- Power Dissipation: Less than 500 mW for a dual when device is fully enabled in receive mode.
- RF Specifications: For LNA unit, it should have larger enough gain to reduce extra driver amplifier for
cost and PCB space. The NF figure of LNA should small enough to overcome the loss of switch and filter.

# 11 Table 2-20: Two stage LNA Requirements
Frequency band Band41 Band78 Additional Information NF <1 dB <1.5 dB High gain >=32 dB High gain >=32 dB Gain Low gain >=16 dB Low gain >=16 dB P1dB >18dBm >18dBm Input return loss <-12dB <-12dB Output return loss <-15dB <-15dB Switching Speed <1us <1us IP3 >30dBm >30dBm 2 Tone CW -15dBm

# K >1 >1 up to f = 12.5 GHz
Max input power >15dBm >15dBm b. Hardware Design The reference designs for one stage LNA and two-stage LNA are given.

# 4 • One stage LNA
RFin is the input port of the LNA. RFout is the output of the LNA. Vcc is the power input of the LNA. LNA EN is the control pin to disable or enable the LNA. The input match to 50 ohm as much as possible to reduce the reflection. But for output of the LNA, it is hard to get best Noise figure and the output return loss. Compromise is needed between NF and return loss. Usually the return loss should be around -10dB or -12dB. Also should be very careful to assure the stability of the LNA in a large bandwidth. Vcc needs capacitors to reduce the DC power ripples and give a short route to reduce the RF energy leakage. Figure 2-20 shows the details.

# 13 Figure 2-20: One Stage LNA Diagram

# 14 • Two stage LNA
RFin is the input port of the LNA. RFout is the output of the LNA. Vcc is the power input of the LNA. LNA EN is the control pin to disable or enable the LNA. The input matches to 50 ohm as much as possible to reduce the reflection. But for output of the LNA, it is hard to get best Noise figure and the output return loss. Compromise is needed between NF and return loss. Usually the return loss should be around -10dB or -12dB. Also should be very careful to assure the stability of the LNA in a large bandwidth. Vcc needs capacitors to reduce the DC power ripples and give a short route to reduce the RF energy leakage. Figure 2-21 shows the details.

# L N A E N
V c c

# R F o u t

# 3 2.3.2.2.4 RF Switch Reference Design
For TDD use, the TX and RX links work spiritedly by time duplex. The switch is used to change the RF link according to the TDD duplex. In the TDD TX mode, the switch is switched to connect PA and antenna. In TDD RX mode, the switch is switched to LNA and antenna. a. Hardware Requirements The requirements of the RF switch are listed here.

# 9 • Interface Requirements
The interface requirements of the switch are listed in Table 2-21.

# 11 Table 2-21: Interface requirements of the RF switch
Item Name Description Control Control the switch working mode RF COM The port connected to the antenna RF inputs should support 50 ohm, single ended to match the antenna. RF Outputs The port connected to the LNA. RF inputs should support 50 ohm, single ended to match the LNA. RF Inputs The port connected to the PA. RF inputs should support 50 ohm, single ended to match the PA output.

# 13 • RF Specifications
For switch, it should have larger P1dB to not degrade the ACLR or damage the switch itself. The output power should be at least 26dBm (29dBm for 500mW/port) count on the loss of antenna filter so it must have low loss. Also the isolation needs to be high to protect the LNA. Higher HD2 and HD3 are needed to reduce the out of band emissions.

# R F in LN
LN A b A y E p N a ss V c c V c c

# R F o u t

# 8 Figure 2-22: RF Switch Reference Design Diagram

# 9 2.3.2.2.5 Antenna Reference Design
The antenna is used to radiate the TX power to the air and receive the RX power from the air. For the indoor Picocell scenario, the isotropic antenna is the first choice. a. Hardware Requirements The following table shows the antenna requirement for the O-RU . 7-2

# 8 Figure 2-23: Whip Antenna

### 2.3.3 O-RU Hardware Components for SDR based Design

# 9 7-2
General block diagrams for 2T2R and 4T4R O-RU examples for FPGA based design are shown in 2.3.2. The block 7-2 diagrams for SDR-based design are very similar to those and are shown below. Figure 2-24: 2T2R General Block Diagram for SDR based design Figure 2-25: 4T4R General Block Diagram for SDR based design

# 4 2.3.3.1 Digital Processing Unit
The digital processing unit of O-RU is mainly for performing tasks related to FH interface, lower L1, RF interface, 7-2 and OAM. i. SDR Solution Design The Software Defined Radio SOC unit of O-RU is mainly responsible for FH interface, Low PHY, RF I/Q 7-2 interface, and management functions. a. SDR SoC requirement: The following items are required for the O-RU : 7-2
- Interface requirement: One lane of bi-directional 10 Gbps SerDes for FH Split 7.2, 4-Port ADC/DAC IQ
pairs for 4T4R and 2-port ADC/DAC IQ pairs for 2T2R.
- Resource Requirement: Built-in DSP, RTOS and processors to implement 2T2R and 4T4R ORU 7.2 Low

# 5 Figure 2-26: SDR SoC Design

# 4 2.3.3.2.1 Transceiver RFIC Reference Design

# 6 Figure 2-27: Transceiver RFIC Reference Design
The key features of the transceiver RFIC are as follows:
- Tri-Band 2x2 5G NR sub-6 GHz RF transceiver
- Flexible analog baseband filter - 50 MHz - 400 MHz modulation in TX mode
- Flexible analog baseband filter - 20 MHz - 200 MHz modulation in RX mode

# 11 • Observation path for DPD support

# 12 • Analog differential I/Q interface to baseband

# 13 • Programmable RFIC control, configuration and calibration

# 4 The key transmitter feature is as follows:
- Direct conversion with adjustable gain on the transmission chains

# 6 It includes an auxiliary ADC that supports:

# 7 • Calibration of internal circuits

# 8 • External voltage and temperature measurements

# 9 • External PA Power Envelope Measurements

# 10 The RFIC includes:
- Interfaces for configuration and bi-directional data with baseband IC

# 12 2.3.3.2.2 Power Amplifier (PA) Reference Design
The Power Amplifier boosts the RF output to the level required for the base station class. a. Hardware Requirements The PA is the final stage that amplifies the downlink RF signal. Considering the requirement of the conducted output power of 24 dBm at the antenna connector and the maximum 3 dB insertion loss between the PA and the antenna, including the directional coupler, the circulator, and the band-pass filter, the PA output power should be at least 27 dBm (same output power as in 2.3.2.2.2). The ACLR should be less than -35 dBc (before applying the DPD) to ease the hardware processing requirements of the DPD algorithm and still be able to meet the 3GPP TS38.104 ACLR requirements (clause 6.6.3). To support TDD mode, the PA should be capable of swiftly turning ON and OFF. The switching time should be less than 1 usec.

# 22 Table 2-24: PA Requirements
Parameter Specification Additional Information Gain >32dB Linear Output Power >27dBm ACLR<-35dBc (P1 dB) Input VSWR <2 HD2 >50dBc CW 27dBm HD3 >50dBc CW 27dBm

# 24 • Interface Requirements
The interface requirements of the transmit PA are listed in Table 2-25.

# 13 Figure 2-28: PA Reference Design

# 14 2.3.3.2.3 Directional Coupler
a. Hardware Requirements O-RU needs to comply with 3GPP TS38.104 ACLR requirements (clause 6.6.3). Directional Coupler is a necessary component to implement the DPD feedback path. With the directional coupler, the TX RF signal is coupled back to the RX port for DPD calculation. Its input pin is connected to the output pin of PA, and the coupled pin is connected to the RX with a 50 ohms attenuator. The isolated pin is terminated with a 50 Ω resistor. Minimum 18 dB directivity is required to reject the self-interference due to limited antenna isolation.

# 3 Table 2-26: Directional Coupler Requirements
Parameter Specification Unit Coupling 20 +/-1.5 dB Maximum Operating Band Insertion Loss 0.1 dB Minimum Operating Band Return Loss 18 dB Minimum Directivity 18 dB Minimum Average Input Power 10 W Operating Temperature -55 ~ 140 °C b. Hardware Design The Input of the directional coupler is connected to the output of the PA. The Direct port is connected to port-1 of the circulator. The Coupled port is connected to the common port of the RF switch. The Isolated port is terminated by a 50 ohms resistor. Make sure all the RF ports see 50 ohms terminations for best directivity performance. Pin 1 Pin 2 Pin 4 Pin 3

# 10 Figure 2-29: Directional Coupler

# 14 Table 2-27: Directional Coupler Pin Connectivity
Pin 1 Pin 2 Pin 3 Pin 4 Input Direct Isolated Coupled

# 8 Table 2-28: Circulator Requirements
Parameter Value Additional Information Insertion Loss <0.2dB Isolation >20dB Return loss <-20dB Average Power >1Watt Peak Power >10Watts 2nd Harmonic <-50dBc 3rd Harmonic <-60dBc b. Hardware Design Port-1 of the circulator is connected to the output of the directional coupler. Port-2 is connected to the BPF. Port-3 is connected to the common port of the RF switch. Make sure all the RF ports see 50 ohms terminations for best isolation performance. The RF switch should be switched to the port of 50 ohms termination during

# 14 TX period.

# 4 2.3.3.2.5 Band Pass Filter
a. Hardware Requirements The BPF placed between the circulator and the antenna rejects the spurs and the harmonics in the TX path and suppresses the unwanted blockers in the RX path. Low insertion loss is required to meet TX output power and RX sensitivity requirements. High rejection at the band-edge is required to suppress the Out-of-Band blocking signal specified in 3GPP TS 38.104 clause 7.5. The BPF placed between the LNA output and RFIC input is optional and can be added if further suppression at the band-edge is required. High peak power handling is required to withstand the high peak-to-average ratio of OFDM signal.

# 13 Table 2-29: Band Pass Filter Requirements
Parameter @ 25°C @ -40°C ~ Unit 105°C Maximum Passband Insertion Loss in 20 MHz BW 1.5 2.0 dB Maximum Passband Ripple 1.0 1.2 dB Minimum Passband Input/Output Return Loss 12 dB Minimum 1 MHz to (f - Δf ) MHz 18 dB UL_low OOB Attenuation (f + Δf ) MHz to (2*f ) MHz 18 UL_high OOB UL_low (2*f ) MHz to (2*f ) MHz 30 UL_low UL_high (3*f ) MHz to (3*f ) MHz 20 UL_low UL_high Average Input Power 8 W Peak Input Power 80 W Operating Temperature -40 ~ 105 °C Note 1: Δf is the maximum offset of the out-of-band boundary from the uplink operating band edge OOB Note 2: Δf = 20 MHz if (f - f ) MHz is no larger than 200 MHz; Δf = 60 MHz if (f - f ) OOB UL_high UL_low OOB UL_high UL_low

# 3 MHz is larger than 200 MHz
b. Hardware Design Input and Output are the RF ports of the BPF. Make sure the RF input and output ports see 50 ohms terminations for best BPF performance.

# 8 Figure 2-31: Band Pass Filter

# 9 2.3.3.2.6 Low Noise Amplifier (LNA) Reference Design
The LNA is required at the RX path prior to the RF transceiver. It not only boosts the RX signal but also reduces the cascaded noise figure for best RX sensitivity. Since the BPF may not reject the interference over the air, the LNA must have enough OIP3 to tolerate the interference to mitigate the de-sensitization. Another benefit of higher OIP3 is higher maximum input power of the wanted signal. a. Hardware Requirements

# 15 The requirements of the LNA are listed here.
- Interface Requirements: The interface requirements of the transmit LNA are listed in Table 2-30.

# 17 Table 2-30: LNA Requirements
Parameter Value Additional Information NF <1dB Gain >20dB OP1dB >17dBm Input return loss <-10dB Output return loss <-10dB Switching Speed <1us OIP3 >27dBm 2 Tone CW -20dBm

# K >1 up to f = 12.5 GHz
- Power Dissipation: Less than 330 mW when device is fully enabled in receive mode.
b. Hardware Design Input is the RF input of the LNA and output is the RF output of the LNA. Vcc is the power supply of the LNA and the internal bias circuits. Enable is the control pin to enable or disable the LNA. Make sure the RF input and output ports see 50 ohms terminations for best LNA performance. Bulk capacitors should be used to reduce the ripples of Vcc and decoupling capacitors to decouple the RF energy to ground plane. Minimize the insertion loss from the antenna port to the RF input of the LNA as much as possible to reduce the cascaded noise figure. Ensure the grounding is good enough. Otherwise, the LNA is subject to oscillations. Figure 2-32 shows the details.

# 10 Figure 2-32: LNA

# 11 2.3.3.2.7 RF Switch Reference Design
The RF switch is used to change the RF path from a common port. The insertion loss at the through path should be as small as possible, while the insertion loss at the blocked path should be as large as possible. The first use case is to switch TX and RX path from the antenna port. The second use case is to switch the TX feedback and RX from the RX input of RF transceiver. In the first use case, the common port of the RF switch is connected to port-3 as shown in Figure 2-30. During TX duration, the RF switch is switched to the port of 50 ohms termination. a. Hardware Requirements The requirements of the RF switch are listed here.

# 19 • Interface Requirements:
The interface requirements of the switch are listed in Table 2-31 and Table 2-32. Table 2-31: Interface requirements of the RF switch for use case 1 Item Name Description Control Control the switch working mode RF COM The port connected to port-3 of the circulator. RF inputs should support 50 ohm, single ended to match the circulator. RF 1 The port connected to the LNA. RF inputs should support 50 ohm, single ended to match the LNA. RF 2 The port connected to the 50 ohms termination. RF inputs should support 50 ohm, single ended to match the 50 ohms termination. Table 2-32: Interface requirements of the RF switch for use case 2 Item Name Description Control Control the switch working mode RF COM The port connected to RX input of RF transceiver. RF inputs should support 50 ohm, single ended to match the RF transceiver. RF port 1 The port connected to the coupling port of the directional coupler. RF inputs should support 50 ohm, single ended to match the directional coupler. RF port 2 The port connected to the LNA output. RF input should support 50 ohm, single ended to match the LNA output.

# 3 • RF Specifications
The switch should have larger P1dB to not degrade the ACLR or damage the switch itself. The output power should be at least 27dBm (30dBm for 500mW/port) considering the loss of antenna filter, and it must have low loss. Also, the isolation needs to be high to protect the LNA. Higher HD2 and HD3 are needed to reduce the out-of-band emissions.

# 8 Table 2-33: RF Switch Requirements
Parameter Value Additional Information Loss <0.5dB P0.1dB >30dBm Input return loss <-15dB Output return loss <-15dB Switching Speed <0.5us Isolation >30dB HD2 >70dBc CW 27dBm HD3 >70dBc CW 27dBm b. Hardware Design RFcom is the common port of the RF switch which is switched to RF1 or RF2 by CTRL pin. Vcc is the power supply of the transistor and control logic. DC blocks are required at each RF port if non-zero DC exits. Decoupling capacitors are added at Vcc to decouple the RF energy to ground plane. Figure 2-33 shows the details. Vcc RF1 RFcom RF2 CTRL

# 9 Figure 2-33: SPDT RF Switch Reference Design

# 10 2.3.3.2.8 Antenna Reference Design
The Antenna reference design is similar to the one described in 2.3.2.2.5.

### 2.3.4 Synchronization and Timing
The purpose of the Clocking device is to accept the network reference clock, typically 1 PPS, and generate a jitter free reference clock(s) for other devices in the system including the RF transceiver and digital block. The clock is typically part of an IEEE 1588 implementation either controlled by an external stack or implemented in the clock device itself which could be part of the baseband implementation. a. Hardware Requirements

# 18 Hardware requirements are:
- Interface Requirements: The interface requirements of the transmit Clocking are listed below.

# 21 Table 2-34: Interface requirements of the clocking
Item Name Description Reference Clock The clock device should receive a network reference clock from the FPGA/ASIC. This Input typically could be a 1pps, 10 MHz or other standard reference as determined by the specific implementation. More than one input is allowed that may be selected between when the reliability of one reference is compromised. Standard differential clocking should be used to preserve signal integrity. Control Control of the transceiver is by way of 3 or 4 wire SPI or IIC functioning as a slave. Support for 1.8V control is required and tolerance of 3.3V is preferred. Typically, the clock devices will be part of an IEEE1588v2 protocol loop controlled by way of this control interface or other GPIO lines as required by the hardware implementation. Clock Outputs One or more clock outputs are required to drive the digital device and transceiver clock inputs. Each output should be independently programmable in frequency to suit the application. The outputs should nominally be differential to preserve clocking edge and to maximize tolerance of high common mode signals. RF Inputs RF inputs should support 50 ohm or 100 ohms, single ended or differential signalling to match the transceiver output.
- Power Dissipation: Total dissipation should be about less than 2W.
- RF Specifications: Clocking RF requirements are given in the following table.

# 4 Table 2-35: Clocking RF requirements
Absolution Phase Noise, Dual Loop Typical Additional Information Mode - LVDS OUTPUT f = 122.88 MHz Example is using an external 122.88 MHz OUT VCXO; reference = 122.88 MHz; channel divider = 10 or 1; PLL2 loop bandwidth (LBW) = 450 kHz.

# 10 Hz Offset −86 dBc/Hz

# 100 Hz Offset −106 dBc/Hz
kHz Offset −126 dBc/Hz kHz Offset −135 dBc/Hz 100 kHz Offset −139 dBc/Hz 800 kHz Offset −147 dBc/Hz

# 10 MHz Offset −157 dBc/Hz

# 40 MHz Offset −158 dBc/Hz
Absolute Phase Noise, Single Loop Mode – LVDS OUTPUT Typical LVDS OUTPUT f = 122.88 MHz Example is using an external 122.88 MHz OUT reference; reference = 122.88 MHz; channel divider = 10; PLL2 LBW = 450 kHz.

# 10 Hz Offset −111 dBc/Hz

# 100 Hz Offset −113 dBc/Hz
kHz Offset −123 dBc/Hz kHz Offset −135 dBc/Hz 100 kHz Offset −140 dBc/Hz 800 kHz Offset −147 dBc/Hz

# 10 MHz Offset −157 dBc/Hz

# 40 MHz Offset −157 dBc/Hz
CLOCK OUTPUT ADDITIVE Example is using an external 122.88 MHz TIME JITTER (BUFFER source driving VCXO inputs (distribution MODE) section only, does not include PLL and Typical VCO) f = 122.88 MHz 79 fS Integrated BW = 200 kHz to 5 MHz OUT 101 fS Integrated BW = 200 kHz to 10 MHz 140 fS Integrated BW = 12 kHz to 20 MHz 187 fS Integrated BW = 10 kHz to 40 MHz 189 fS Integrated BW = 1 kHz to 40 MHz 176 fS Integrated BW = 1 MHz to 40 MHz b. Hardware Design For the clocking function, it is usually performed by a synchronization IC which may include one or more PLLs. And it also can supply numbers of output port to support different frequency clocking. VCX O LF1 VCXO VT VCXO VCXO LF2_EXT_CAP LDO_VCO PLL 1 8-bit Divider DQ dFeilnaey OUT0 REFA D 1 i 0 vi - d b e it r SYNC w/ D C e o la a y rse Switch- 8 w -b / it C D o i a v r i s d e e r DQ dFeilnaey OUT1 REF_SEL co o n ve tr r o l L D o e c t k L fi o lt o e p r PLL 2 SYNC Delay REFB D 1 i 0 vi - d b e it r 10-bit D P F C P h u a m rg p e x2 D 5 iv -b id it e r PFD C P h u a m rg p e L fi o lt o e p r VCO ÷3 D , iv ÷ i 4 d , e ÷ r 5 . . . . . . OUT2 to OUT 11 Divider . .. 8-bit Divider SYNC 8-bit Divider DQ dFeilnaey OUT12 w/ Coarse Delay SYNC SYSREF 8-bit Divider DQ dFeilnaey OUT13 w/ Coarse Delay SYNC DQ DQ SDIO D L e o te ck ct SDO Control

# S C R C E S L S K ET (S In P te I r & fa I c 2C e ) Tr G i S g e Y ge n S e r _ ra R t E io F n
SPI_SYS_REF DQ Request St / a S tu P s _ ,1 0,1 sserddA troP laireS tceteD / kcoL rotinoM sutatS SYSREF REQUEST (CMOS)

# 7 Figure 2-34: PLL Reference Design Diagram
REFA and REFB are differential reference clock inputs from the source to be cleaned up and used as the system reference. REF_SEL is the control pin used to select between REFA and REFB signals. LF1 is PLL1 external external VCXO. VCXO_IN are differential signals from the external VCXO. These typically can be configured for single ended operation as well. LF2_CAP is the external loop filter capacitor for loop 2. This cap is connected between this pin and LDO_VCO pin. LDO_VCO is the on-chip LDO regular decoupling for the VCO. RESET (bar) is an active low pin to reset the internal logic to their default states. CS (bar) is an active low chip select for serial control. SCLK/SCL is a serial control port clock for both SPI and I2C. SDIO/SDA is a bidirectional serial data pin for both SPI and I2C. SDO is the serial data out pin for 4-wire mode. OUT0 through OUT13 are differential programmable output clock signals. These are the primary outputs of this device and provide high performance clock signals to the transceiver, baseband device and other key elements. This device is also responsible for providing SYSREF to various devices in the system if required. It may also use an external SYSREF as a source that may be retimed for local timing if necessary. STATUS0/SP0 is a lock detect and other status signal. STATIS1/SP1 is a lock detect and other status signal. SYSREF_IN is an external SYSREF input clock is a differential input representing the JESD204 synchronization from the external source.

### 2.3.5 External Interface Ports
a. Hardware Requirements The following table shows the external ports or slots provided by O-RU . 7-2

# 12 Table 2-36: External Port List
Port Name Feature Description Fronthaul interface One 10Gbps SFP+ transceiver interface Or one RJ45 Ethernet interface Debug interface RJ45 for debug usage Power interface Two-pin male plug for power cable b. Hardware Design
- SFP+ case and connector: The SFP+ case and connector are standardized component on the market;
following figure describe the form factor of one SFP case which is integrated with connector.
- RJ45 Ethernet interface: The RJ45 Ethernet interface is a standardized component on the market; following
figure describes the form factor of one RJ45 interface.

### 2.3.6 Mechanical
The shell of O-RU is shown in the following figure. The O-RU should be quiet, so it depends on the natural heat 7-2 7-2 dissipation method. Usually the bottom of the shell is built by metal. All hot components should make their surfaces contact to metal shell through thermal pad.

# 8 Figure 2-37: O-RU Shell Mechanical Diagram
7-2

# 10 .

### 2.3.7 Power Unit
For Picocell, for the power solution of the O-RU can be over Ethernet cable (cat5E, cat6A) by POE (POE+, POE++) 7-2 or directly power cable with fibre. And for the board power solution, LDO and DCDC can be used. a. Hardware Requirements For PA unit, it should have larger enough gain to reduce extra driver amplifier for cost and PCB space. The output power should be at least 27dBm count on the loss of switch and antenna filter. The ACLR should larger than 47dBc according to the related 3GPP test mode. To reduce the power consumption, DPD is needed. And the P1 dB requirement is closely related to the DPD algorithm. Table 2-37: power unite requirement for 2T2R and 4T4R O-RU 7-2 Module Power consumption 2T2R 4T4R Unit FPGA 9 11 W Transceiver 5.74 11.48 W PLL 1.78 1.78 W PA 5 10 W 0.75 TDD ratio LAN 0.15 0.3 W 0.25 TDD ratio Ethernet PHY 1 1 W DDR 0.9 0.9 W Flash 0.1 0.1 W others 1.65 1.65 W component total power consumption 25.3 38 W O-RU power consumption 29.7 45 W on board power efficiency 0.85 7-2

# 13 Table 2-38: Power unit function
Function Priority Enable/Disable Mandatory Power good Optional Input voltage Mandatory 48V Output voltage Mandatory 0.85V 1.2V 1.3V 1.5V 1.8V 2.5V 3.3V 5V 12V etc. b. Hardware Design The block diagram of POE reference design is shown in Figure 2-28. Data Pair and Spare Pair are the POE connections on the data transformers used to source the power over Ethernet. V is a local backup power AUX source if desired. Isolated Output is the isolated raw output from the PoE sub-circuit.

# V ( 9 V to 60 V )
AUX C PORT ~ + DATA C

# V PD
PAIR ~ - PORT 0 . 1 uF

# 3 . 3 k
V IN nF ~ + Isolated Isolated SPARE Power Output PAIR ~ - VPORT HSGATE HSSRC Supply AUX PWRGD Run Power over Ethernet Controller GND

# 8 Figure 2-38: PoE Reference Design Diagram

### 2.3.8 Thermal

# 10 O-RU will use passive cooling.
7-2

### 2.3.9 Environmental and Regulations
The O-RU hardware system is RoHS Compliant. The power supply unit is EMC FCC/CISPR Class B compliant. 7-2 Table 2-39 lists the environmental related features and parameters.

# 14 Table 2-39: Environmental Features
Item Name Description Operating Temperature -5°C to +55°C Non-operating Temperature -40°C to 70°C Operating Relative Humidity 8% to 90% (non-condensing) Non-operating Relative Humidity 5% to 95% (non-condensing)

## 2.4 FHM Hardware Reference Design

### 2.4.1 FHM High-Level Functional Block Diagram

# 5 7-2
Figure 2-39 shows the FHM block diagram for this reference design. Following sections below describe the 7-2 functionality, interface and performance for each respective block of the Digital Processing Unit. As device integration is an ongoing activity, chip boundaries may be fluid and some functionality may move from one block to another or entire functionalities may be absorbed into other blocks. The sections below describe the functional blocks independent of which physical device they may reside in.

# 13 Figure 2-39: FHM General Block Diagram
7-2 in Pt

# A C

# 4 8 V
o w e e r f a c V P o r e 1 w e r … in Pt oe wr f a ec R

# R S
r e 8

# J 4

# F P G
S U A S 1F p lin k + A e rd e

# 0 G

# P + .
R s M 2S 5F … C a s c a d e GP + S e rd e s

# S F
0P G+ . 8

# D D
F la

# C L

# F A R
s h K N

### 2.4.2 FHM Hardware Components

# 8 The requirements are as follows:

# 9 • Interface requirements are shown in Table 2-40.

# 10 Table 2-40: Interface requirements of the FPGA
At least 8 lanes of bi-direction10Gb Serdes Serdes lane At least 2 lanes of bi-direction25Gb Serdes b. FPGA Design This unit handles multiple high-speed interfaces and digital signal processing. The main chipset is based on FPGA with ARM multi-core processor while FPGA is responsible for high speed data processing and ARM cores are mainly for configuration and management.

# 16 The FPGA function is shown below:
For the uplink processing, the eCPRI interface module is used to receive eCPRI link form O-RU and generate the 7-2 reference frequency and time slot for time and frequency synchronization. Then the eCPRI de-frame module gets the uplink IQ bit stream of the time domain the carrier from O-RU . If the uplink IQ stream is compressed, then it 7-2 needs the de-compression module to translate them into original bit width. After that all the O-RU uplink IQ streams are combined and the precondition for the combined function is that 7-2 each stream from different O-RU is aligned in time domain. 7-2 Then the time domain IQ date goes to the Low PHY function module to change to frequency domain IQ samples by FFT. Other functions are not specified in detail here. If the FHM can support two separate cells, then the two cell uplink signal should be aggregated or interleaved 7-2 together. Then capture the IQ streams in the eCPRI frame and transmitted by eCPRI interface to the O-DU . 7-2 For the downlink processing, the procedure is much the same with uplink but with an inverse sequence. The difference is that the downlink signal is duplicated with 8 copies and sends to different O-RU . 7-2 There is also an eCPRI OAM module; actually this module will work with the processor (Arm) to accommodate the OAM of different O-RU and the FHM itself. 7-2 7-2

# 4 Table 2-41: FPGA Resource usage for FHM
7-2 Device FF LUT URAM BRAM DSP IQ MUX 1000 1000 0 0 0 Cascade 2000 2000 0 0 0 IQ combine 2000 2000 0 32 0 eCPRI deframe*9 63000 63000 0 180 0 eCPRI frame*9 63000 63000 0 180 0 Fronthaul (eCPRI)x10 100000 80000 0 10 0 compress*1 3000 3000 0 24 32 de_compress*8 24000 24000 0 192 208 ethernet_cm 3000 3000 0 15 0 Other 20000 15000 0 200 0 in in e C te e C te

# P R
rfa

# P R
rfa I c e I c e e e C P R I fra m e

# C P R I d e
fra m e - C o m p re io n ss Oa Oa th g g th g g F e r c e ll re g a ti o n e r c e ll re g a ti o n

# H G W
c o I/

# 7 -2 -7 -2
I/ Q m b in iti o n Q m u x O B B B th u u u e ffe r ffe r ffe r r c e ll c c c D o m D o m D o m B u B u B u e - p re s e - p re s e - p re s ffe r ffe r ffe r s s s d d d e C P R I e -fra m e C P R I e -fra m e C P R I e -fra m e C P R I fra m e e C P R I fra m e e C P R I fra m e e e e e C P R in te rfa e C P R in te rfa e C P R in te rfa E th e rn

# O A M
e C P R in te rfa e C P R in te rfa e C P R in te rfa Ic Ic Ic e Ic Ic Ic e e e t e e e

### 2.4.3 Synchronization and Timing
In this section we describe the internal and external timing and synchronization that are managed by this entity. a. Hardware Requirements

# 5 • CLK requirement
The FHM may support some kinds of synchronization method: 7-2 1) IEEE 1588/SyncE

# 8 2) Support GPS/GLONASS/GALILEO/BEIDOU
So the PLL must support 1pps or eCPRI CDR as the reference frequency.

# 10 Table 2-42: Requirements of the PLL device
Device Description 1PPS Supported Synchronizer at least 1 number Output At least 5 channel VCO Supported integrated b. Hardware Design This unit is to recover the clock from external source and generate the synchronized clock to other devices. Upon scenarios, there will be external sync source via eCPRI.

# 16 Figure 2-41: CLK reference design for FHM
7-2 For the general FPGA device, each bank may have 4 Serdes channels. It is better to have separated CLK to each bank. So two CLK of 156.25 MHz are needed for the FHM , which is used for the 8 10G Serdes interfaces with 7-2 O-RU . One 390.625MHz is used for 2 25G Serdes interface with O-DU or cascaded FHM . One 125MHz 7-2 7-2 7-2 is used for FPGA system. One 250MHz CLK for DDR device function. One 390.625MHz is used for 25G eCPRI R e fe re n c e c lo c k fro

# 3 9 0 .6 2 5 M H
m z

# C L K

# 3 9 0 .6 2 5 M

### 2.4.4 External Interface Ports

# 4 List and provide description of all external interfaces.
a. Hardware Requirements The following table shows the external ports or slots provided by FHM . 7-2

# 7 Table 2-43: External Port List
Port Name Feature Description Fronthaul interface Eight 10Gbps SFP+ transceiver interfaces Two 25Gbps SFP+ transceiver interfaces Debug interface RJ45 for debug usage Power interface PLUG AC FEMALE for power cable b. Hardware Design

# 10 • SFP+ case and connector
The SFP+ case and connector are standardized components on the market; following figure describes the form factor of one SFP case which is integrated with connector.

# 15 Figure 2-42: SFP+ case and connector

# 16 • RJ45 Ethernet interface
The RJ45 Ethernet interface is a standardized component on the market; following figure describes the form factor of one RJ45 interface.

# 3 • Power interface
The 220V AC power connector is a standardized component on the market; following figure describes the form factor of one 220V AC power connector.

# 8 Figure 2-44: AC power interface

### 2.4.5 Mechanical
The 1U rack mount chassis can contain the layout of the power unit and processing unit. The shell of FHM is shown 7-2 in the following figure. The power consumption of FHM is huge, so it may need a fan to accelerate the heat 7-2 dissipation.

# 13 Figure 2-45: Shell Mechanical Diagram

### 2.4.6 Power
At minimum, fully describe the power consumptions for this white box. Include all AC/DC input or outputs and their ratings. Not mandatory but if you like you can add summary of all component's power requirement and overall white box. a. Hardware Requirements
- Power requirement: The power solution is divided into two parts.
1. Input power module: This power module must support AC to DC conversion. Usually it converts 220V AC to 48V DC. 2. Output power module: It will supply power to the O-RU connected to the FHM and 7-2 7-2 also the device on the FHM itself. 7-2

# 12 Table 2-44: Requirements of the power unit
Item Description Input voltage AC:100V~264V Output DC: 48V voltage Output At least 600W power b. Hardware Design

# 14 Describe hardware reference design for this power unit.
This unit has two main functions which are internal power supply and external/remote power supply. The input power is normally AC (100V to 250V) but DC input could be optional. For remote power supply, it will support -48V DC via either standalone cable or cat-6A cable. Usually a separated AC-DC power supply is used for the 220V to 48V conversion. It is very common power supply on the market. It should have fan to cool itself and handle for easy to plug in and out. Then the output power is divided into two portions. One for O-RU power supply, the other is for the device on 7-2 the FHM board. 7-2 For the on-board power solution, 48V to 12V converter is needed as a standard 1/8 brick module. Then the power voltage is further changed to lower level such as 5V, 3.3V, 1.1V, 1.0V and so on by DC/DC or LDO devices.

### 2.4.7 Thermal

# 26 Active cooling.

### 2.4.8 Environmental and Regulations
The FHM will fulfil the requirement in 4.6.3 of [6]. 7-2

## 2.5 FHGW Hardware Reference Design

### 2.5.1 FHGW7 High-Level Functional Block Diagram

# 4 -2→8
Figure 2-46 depicts the FHGW block diagram for this reference design. Following sections will describe the 7-2→8 functionality, interface and performance for each respective block within the figure. Since device integration is an ongoing activity, chip boundaries may be fluid and some functionality may move from one block to another or entire functionalities may be absorbed into other blocks. The descriptions below describe the functional blocks independent of which physical device they may reside in.

# 12 Figure 2-46: FHGW General Block Diagram
7-2→8 in Pt

# A C

# 4 8 V
o w e e r f a c V P o r e 1 w e r … in Pt oe wr f a ec R

# R S
r e 8

# J 4

# F P +

# F P G A +
S U p lin P r o S e rd

# F P +
k c e s . 1 e s C a s c a d e

# S F P +
s o r S e rd e s

# S F
0P G+ . 8

# D D
F la

# C L

# F A R
s h K N

### 2.5.2 FHGW Hardware Components

# 12 Table 2-45: Interface Requirements of the FPGA
Item Name Description At least 8 lanes of bi-direction10Gb Serdes Serdes lane At least 2 lanes of bi-direction25Gb Serdes b. FPGA Design This unit handles multiple high-speed interfaces and digital signal processing. The main chipset is based on FPGA with multi-core processor while FPGA is responsible for high speed data processing and processor cores are mainly for configuration and management.

# 18 The FPGA function is shown below:
For the uplink processing, the CPRI interface module is used to receive CPRI link from O-RU for generation of reference frequency and time slot for time and frequency synchronization. Then the CPRI de- frame module gets the uplink IQ bit stream of the time domain the carrier from O-RU . If the uplink IQ stream is compressed, then it needs the de-compression module to translate them into original bit width. All the O-RU uplink IQ streams are combined and the precondition for the combine function is that each stream from different O-RU is aligned in time domain. Then the time domain IQ data goes to the Low PHY function module to change to frequency domain IQ samples by performing FFT function. If the FHGW can support two separate cells, then the two cell uplink signal should be aggregated or 7-2-→8 interleaved together. Then FHGW should capture the IQ streams in the eCPRI frame and transmit it via 7-2-→8 eCPRI interface to the O-DU . For the downlink processing, the procedure is very much the same as uplink 7-2 but in reverse order. The difference is that the downlink signal is duplicated with 8 copies and transmits that to different O-RU . There is also one eCPRI/CPRI OAM module. Actually this module will work with the processor to accommodate the OAM of different O-RU and the FHGW itself.

# 8 7-2-→8

# 4 Table 2-46: FPGA Resource Usage for FHGW
7-2-→8 Device FF LUT URAM BRAM DSP IQ MUX 1000 1000 0 0 0 Cascade 2000 2000 0 0 0 IQ combine 2000 2000 0 32 0 eCPRI deframe*2 14000 14000 0 40 0 eCPRI frame*2 14000 14000 0 40 0 CPRI deframe*8 40000 40000 0 0 0 CPRI frame*8 40000 40000 0 0 0 Fronthaul (eCPRI)x2 20000 16000 0 2 0 Fronthaul (CPRI)x8 37890 24804 0 8 0 compress*1 3000 3000 0 24 32 de_compress*8 24000 24000 0 192 208 Ethernet CM 3000 3000 0 15 0 iFFT & CP+ 7763 5323 0 27 23 FFT & CP- 7763 5323 0 27 23 PRACH front end 4000 3000 0 32 50 Other 20000 15000 0 200 0 e C P R I in te rfa c e e C P R I in te rfa c e e e C P R I fra m e

# C P R I d e - fra m e
C o m p re io n ss Oa Lo th e r ce ll g g re g a ti o n w - P H Y Lo w - P H Y O th e r ce ll a g g re g a ti o n

# F H G W 7-2-8
I/Q co m b in iti o n I/Q m u x O B B B th u u u e ffe r ffe r ffe r r ce ll co co co Dm Dm Dm B B B e - p re ss e - p re ss e - p re ss u ffe r u ffe r u ffe r d d d

# C P R I
e -fra m e

# C P R I
e -fra m e

# C P R I
e -fra m e

# C P R I
fra m e

# C P R I
fra m e

# C P R I
fra m e

# C P R I
in te rfa c e

# C P R I
in te rfa c e

# C P R I
in te rfa c e E th e rn e t

# O A M

# C P R I
in te rfa c

# C P R I
in te rfa c

# C P R I
in te rfa c e e e

### 2.5.3 Synchronization and Timing
This section describes the synchronization and timing mechanism that is used in the FHGW . 7-2→8 a. Hardware Requirements

# 4 • CLK requirement
The FHGW may support some kinds of synchronization method: 7-2→8 1) IEEE 1588/SyncE

# 7 2) Support GPS/GLONASS/GALILEO/BEIDOU
So the PLL must support 1pps or eCPRI CDR as the reference frequency.

# 9 Table 2-47: Requirements of the PLL device
Item Name Description 1PPS Supported Synchronizer at least 1 number Output At least 6 channel VCO Supported integrated b. Hardware Design This unit is to recover clock from external source and generate the synchronized clock to other devices. Upon scenarios, there will be external sync source via eCPRI.

# 15 Figure 2-48: CLK reference design for FHGW
7-2→8 For general FPGA device, each bank may have four Serdes channels. It is better to have separated CLK signals to each bank. Three CLK signals of 122.88MHz are needed for the FHGW . One CLK signal of 125MHz is 7-2→8 used for FPGA system, while one CLK signal of 250MHz is used for DDR device function. One CLK signal of 390.625MHz is used for 25G eCPRI interface between O-DU and FHGW , and one CLK signal of 7-2 7-2→8 122.8MHz is used for low PHY function. The input of the CLK module comes from FPGA CDR function which can get reference CLK from the sync-plane of eCPRI. Usually, one PLL device integrated with VCO and two separated synthesizers is needed. R e fe re n c e c lo c k fro

# 3 9 0 .6 2 5 M H
m z

# C L K

# 3 9 0 .6 2 5 M H z

### 2.5.4 External Interface Ports
This section describes the external interface ports that are needed in the FHGW . 7-2→8 a. Hardware Requirements The following table shows the external ports or slots provided by FHGW . 7-2→8

# 5 Table 2-48: External Port List
Port Name Feature Description Fronthaul interface Eight 10Gbps SFP+ transceiver interfaces Two 25Gbps SFP+ transceiver interfaces Debug interface RJ45 for debug usage Power interface PLUG AC FEMALE for power cable b. Hardware Design

# 8 • SFP+ case and connector
The SFP+ case and connector are standardized components on the market; following figure describes the form factor of one SFP case which is integrated with connector.

# 12 Figure 2-49: SFP+ case and connector

# 13 • RJ45 Ethernet interface
The RJ45 Ethernet interface is a standardized component on the market; following figure describes the form factor of one RJ45 interface.

# 3 • Power interface
The 220V AC power connector is a standardized component on the market; following figure describes the form factor of one 220V AC power connector.

# 7 Figure 2-51: AC power interface

### 2.5.5 Mechanical
The 1U rack mount chassis can contain the layout of the power unit and processing unit. The shell of FHGW is 7-2→8 showing in the following figure. The power consumption of FHGW is huge, so it may need a fan to accelerate the 7-2→8 heat dissipation.

# 6 Figure 2-52: Shell Mechanical Diagram

### 2.5.6 Power
At minimum, fully describe the power consumptions for this white box. Include all AC/DC input or outputs and their ratings. Not mandatory but if you like you can add summary of all component's power requirement and overall white box. a. Hardware Requirements
- Power requirement: The power solution is divided into two parts.

# 13 1. Input power module
This power module must support AC to DC conversion. Usually it converts 220V AC to 48V DC.

# 15 2. Output power module
It will supply power to the O-RU connected to the FHGW and also the device on the FHGW

# 8 7-2→8 7-2→8
itself.

### 2.5.7 Thermal
Active cooling shall be used for this fronthaul gateway.

### 2.5.8 Environmental and Regulations
This FHGW will fulfil the requirements as described in 4.6.3 of [6]. 7-2→8

# 3 Intel® X557-AT2 Intel® 10GbE x2 Ethernet controller

# 4 Intel® I210 Intel® 1GbE Ethernet controller
ASPEED® AST-2500 ASPEED® BMC controller

# 6 UniIC® SCQ08GU03H1F1C-26V UniIC® DDR4 8GB

# 7 Powerleader® MTFDDAK480TDC- Powerleader® SSD 480GB
1AT1ZABYY

# 8 Accelink® RTXM228-551 Accelink® 10Gbps Optical module
Annex 2 FHGW Option 8 CPRI specification reference

# 8 7-2

# 6 FHM with FHGW .

# 8 7-2→8
Annex 3 FHGW Option 8 CPRI spec reference design –

# 8 7-2→8
Management plane Please refer to “Annex3 - Option 8 CPRI spec reference design – Management plane” in O-RAN.WG7.IPC-HRD- Opt8.0-v02.00，https://www.o-ran.org/specifications, reuse all contents except to replace the O-DU with O-DU , and

# 8 7-2
replace the FHM with FHGW .

# 8 7-2→8
Annex 4 FHGW management plane reference design

# 14 7-2→8
A4.1 Scope This document specifies the management plane reference design for FHGW . Except content specify here, 7-2→8 other management function is based ORAN WG4 Management Plane Specification and reuse it. A4.2 Reference The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this text, constitute provisions of the present document.
- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition number, version number, etc.) or
non-specific.
- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including
a GSM document), a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document in Release 15. [1] 3GPP TR 21.905: “Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications” [2] Interface Specification: “CPRI Specification Common Public Radio Interface (CPRI)”, V7.0, October 2015. [3] ORAN-WG4.CUS.0-v03.00 Technical Specification, ‘O-RAN Fronthaul Working Group Control, User and

# 3 Synchronization Plane Specification’. https://www.o-ran.org/specifications
[4] ORAN-WG4.MP.0-v03.00 Technical Specification, ‘O-RAN Fronthaul Working Group Control, Management

# 5 Plane Specification’. https://www.o-ran.org/specifications
A4.3 Definitions and Abbreviations For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1]. Abbreviations Full name C&M Control and Management CPRI Common Public Radio Interface LOF Lost of Frame LOS Lost of Signal LSB Least Significant Bit M-Plane Management Plane MSB Most Significant Bit O-DU O-RAN Distributed Unit with split 7-2 option 7-2 FHGW FHGW between O-DU and O-RU 7-2→8 7-2 8 O-RU O-RAN Radio Unit with split option 8 RAI Remote Alarm Indication S-Plane Synchronization Plane SAP Service Access Point SDI SAP Defect Indication U-Plane User Plane Note: If without clear clarification in this Annex, O-DU always refer to O-DU , FHGW always refers to FHGW 7-2 7-

# 4 This specification refers to following architecture model.
From the perspective of the lower layer connection protocol, as shown in the following figure, the architecture model includes:
- Ethernet/VLAN protocol connection is applied between O-DU and FHGW
7-2 7-2→8
- Ethernet/VLAN protocol connection is applied between FHGW and FHGW
7-2→8 7-2→8
- CPRI protocol connection is applied between FHGW and O-RU
7-2→8 8

# 11 Figure 1 Architecture-lower layer connection
From M-Plane perspective, as shown in the figure below, this architecture model includes:

# 13 - NETCONF client is deployed in O-DU
7-2
- NETCONF server is deployed in FHGW and O-RU
7-2→8 8
- O-DU and FHGW are connected with NETCONF management protocol
7-2→8
- O-DU and O-RU are connected with NETCONF management protocol

# 4 - High-PHY is deployed in O-DU
7-2

# 5 - Low-PHY is deployed in O-RU
- The O-DU and FHGW connect with e-CPRI protocol and split with Option7-2.
7-2→8
- The FHGW and FHGW connect with e-CPRI protocol and split with Option7-2.
7-2→8 7-2→8
- The FHGW and O-RU connect with CPRI protocol and split with Option8.
7-2→8 8

# 10 Figure 3 Architecture C&U-Plane connection
The content of this chapter includes the management of FHGW in accordance with the description of the previous 7-2→8 architecture model chapter A4.5 Interface Management A4.5.1 CPRI Interface Management The basic properties management of the CPRI interface are in the following section, while the details of U-Plane data flow and transceiver parameter acquisition are in the specification of section 4.3.1. A4.5.1.1 CPRI Interface YANG model

# 8 Yang model: o-ran-interfaces-cpri.yang

# 9 The basic properties management of CPRI Interface includes:

# 10 - The configuration of CPRI protocol version

# 11 - The configuration of CPRI interface model

# 12 - The configuration of CPRI line speed rate

# 13 - The configuration of CPRI link coding parameter
- CPRI start pointer configuration of C-Plane and M-Plane

# 15 - read CPRI status
To make it simple, there are some working assumption about the basic property’s management: 1) CPRI interface mode. It is agreed that the northward interface of CPRI link is the master port mode, and the southward interface is the slave port mode. For example, in the case of direct connection, O-DU or FHGW 7-2→8 southward CPRI interface is master port mode, O-RU port is slave port mode; while in the case of cascading, the northward port at the level above the O-RU cascade is configured with slave port mode, and the southward port at the level below the O-RU concatenation is configured with master port mode. 2) CPRI physical layer is in state A when it is ready. To ensure that CPRI link can reach state B and is in physical layer synchronization state, CPRI port shall be configured as follows: a) CPRI line rate configuration is as follows:

# 25 Table 4 The configuration of CPRI line rate
CPRI line bit

# Z X W Y B
rate [Mbit/s]

## 10137.6 0, 1, 2, … , 19 0, 1, … , 159

## 12165.12 0, 1, ..., 149 0, 1, …, 255 0, 1, …, 15 0, 1, 2, … , 23 0, 1, … , 191

## 24330.24 0, 1, 2, … , 47 0, 1, … , 383
b) IQ sampling bits width

# 27 Table 5 IQ sampling bits width
Direction of link Symbol for sample width Range[bits] Downlink M 16 Downlink M 8(with compression algorithm) Uplink M’ 16 Uplink M’ 8(with compression algorithm) c) CPRI link coding

# 3 2. 64B/66B

# 4 3. 64B/66B RS-FEC（optional）
d) CPRI protocol version In order to ensure that the CPRI master and slave ports enter the state C, both ends of the CPRI agreement shall use the CPRI protocol version No. 1. "Protocol Version" is defined in the chapter “L1 Inband Protocol” of the CPRI specification. Note: The difference between Protocol Version 1 and 2 is that when Protocol Version = 2, all data (except subchannel Ns = 0 control word BYTES #Z.X.Y Y<=1 and subchannel Ns = 2) need to add perturbation before linear encoding. With Protocol Version = 1, perturbation is not required. For simplicity, use the Protocol Version = 1 configuration. 3) To ensure that the master and slave ports of CPRI enter the state D, the control and management channel conventions are configured as follows: a) the control management channel, namely Ethernet channel rate configuration is as follows:

# 15 Table6 Ethernet channel rate configuration
CPRI line bit Length of control Control word consisting of Minimum Maximum rate[Mbit/s] word[bit] BYTES# ethernet bit ethernet bit rate[Mbit/s](# rate[Mbit/s](# Z.194.0=rr111 Z.194.0=rr010 111) 100)

## 10137.6 128 #Z.X.0,#Z.X.1,#Z.X.2,#Z.X.3,#Z. 7.68 337.92
X.4,#Z.X.5,#Z.X.6,#Z.X.7,#Z.X.8, #Z.X.9,#Z.X.10,#Z.X.11,#Z.X.12, #Z.X.13,#Z.X.14,#Z.X.15

## 12165.12 128 #Z.X.0,#Z.X.1,#Z.X.2,#Z.X.3,#Z. 7.68 337.92
X.4,#Z.X.5,#Z.X.6,#Z.X.7,#Z.X.8, #Z.X.9,#Z.X.10,#Z.X.11,#Z.X.12, #Z.X.13,#Z.X.14,#Z.X.15

## 24330.24 128 #Z.X.0,#Z.X.1,#Z.X.2,#Z.X.3,#Z. 7.68 337.92
X.4,#Z.X.5,#Z.X.6,#Z.X.7,#Z.X.8, #Z.X.9,#Z.X.10,#Z.X.11,#Z.X.12, #Z.X.13,#Z.X.14,#Z.X.15 b) CPRI C-Plane and M-Plane pointer, pointing to the starting location for fast control and management of Ethernet channels. The Ethernet Pointer is configured as 20 4) To ensure that the master and slave ports of CPRI enter state E and State F, the O-RU slave port can use the established Ethernet control and management channel to execute the NETCONF Call Home procedure in Chapter

# 20 4。

# 21 5) CPRI state conventions

# 3 B． L1 Synchronization and Rate Negotiation

# 4 C． Protocol Setup

# 5 D． C&M Plane (L2+) Setup

# 6 E． Interface and Vendor specific Negotiation

# 7 F． Operation
4. Based on the above CPRI startup states, the M-Plane defines quarriable CPRI startup states, including ENABLE and DISABLE. When the equipment at both ends of the CPRI link enters the F state, the startup state of CPRI is ENABLE state, and the startup state of CPRI is DISABLE state if it is in the A-E state.

# 11 2) CPRI link status

# 12 CPRI specification defines the following alarms：

# 13 A． LOS

# 14 B． LOF

# 15 C． SDI

# 16 D． RAI
5. Based on the above CPRI link alarms, the quarriable CPRI link states, including NORMAL and ABNORMAL, are defined at the time of the alarms. If have alarm for the ABNORMAL, otherwise NORMAL. A4.5.1.2 Initialization CPRI Interface

# 21 Pre-condition:
The M-Plane connection between O-DU and FHGW is established, and the FHGW southward CPRI 7-2→8 7-2→8 interface initialization begins.

# 24 Post-condition:
At the end of this procedure, the initialization configuration from the FHGW southward to the CPRI interface 7-2→8 is completed.

# 27 Procedure:
1) In the startup phase, according to the definition in the o-ran-interfaces-cpri.yang model, the NETCONF client completed the initialization configuration of basic parameters such as line-bit-rate, sample width, Protocol Version,

# 30 Pointer P for each FHGW southward CPRI interface.
7-2→8 2) During the link establishment procedure of CPRI, Protocol Version, Pointer P and other information are included in the control word of CPRI and sent to O-RU . A4.5.1.3 Retrieve Transceiver infomation

# 34 Pre-condition:
The M-Plane connection between O-DU and FHGW is established. 7-2→8

# 36 Post-condition:
At the end of this procedure, O-DU obtains the information of FHGW transceiver module. 7-2→8

# 5 3) Exception:
⚫ If transceiver module is inserted during the file upload procedure, the contents of files before the procedure or failure will be provided. ⚫ If FHGW can not read data from transceiver module, or file does not exist, then FHGW 7-2→8 7-2→8 does not create file or delete the file created before (note: Te file upload will failure because the file does not exist during the file upload procedure.). A4.5.1.4 Configuration CPRI Interface for U-Plane

# 12 Pre-condition:
The M-Plane connection between O-DU and FHGW is established. 7-2→8

# 14 Post-condition:
At the end of this procedure, the U-Plane from the FHGW side is managed and configured. Configuration of 7-2→8 the U-Plane data flow path between O-DU and FHGW is completed. 7-2→8

# 17 Procedure:
1) The NETCONF client will configure and manage the U-Plane configuration of the FHGW southward 7-2→8 CPRI interface according to the newly added transport-flow type in the o-ran-processing-element.yang model. and set the transport-flow-type to "CPRI INTERFACE ", and carry out corresponding CPRI interface configuration of U-Plane. 2) eaxc-id identifies the end-to-end data flow from the processing end of the O-DU to the end of the O-RU antenna. Configure the data flow path between O-DU and FHGW according to eaxc information. 7-2→8 3) The FHGW side completes the mapping from eaxc to the FHGW southward CPRI port. The 7-2→8 7-2→8 specific CPRI interface IQ configuration information includes whether to compress IQ data, starting bit position of IQ data, starting bit position of compression information, AGC bit position etc. After completing the IQ configuration procedure of the CPRI interface, the CPRI mapping relationship on the southward CPRI interface is determined. In the case of different cell bandwidth and antenna configuration, different IQ configuration is required on the CPRI interface. A4.6 FHGW U-Plane Routing and Carrier Configuration

# 30 7-2→8
The target of this chapter is similar to "Chapter 12 Details of O-RU Operations" of [4]. U-Plane configuration in this chapter specifically refers to the U-Plane configuration of Option 7-2. Based on the architectural model in Chapter 2. Indoor Pico Cell have a Low PHY function (FFT/iFFT), as well as copy and combine functions, which U-Plane configuration described in this chapter. This chapter presents the configuration of U-Plane message routing between O-DU and FHGW . After 7-2→8 completing the U-Plane configuration, routing is established between the O-DU and the FHGW 's U-Plane 7-2→8 application endpoints, and IQ data can be exchanged using the U-Plane application protocol defined by [3].

# 3 2) U-Plane endpoint addressing

# 4 3) U-Plane message routing configuration procedure
A4.6.1 General Description A4.6.1.1 YANG Model Files o-ran-uplane-conf-hub.yang: defining the U-Plane configuration capability of the FHGW . 7-2→8 A4.6.1.2 Specific Conventions

# 10 Table 8
O-RAN M-plane Specification This Specification eAxC_ID subfield bit width Not fixed Fixed Non-delay management supported Not supported service A4.6.1.3 YANG Model Detail U-Plane configuration model is a user plane configuration of the Low PHY deployed in FHGW . The 7-2→8 YANG model is defined in o-ran-uplane-conf-hub.yang, which mainly includes:

# 15 ✓ List of multiple static TX endpoints: static-low-level-tx-endpoints

# 16 ✓ List of multiple static RX endpoints: static-low-level-rx-endpoints
✓ List of multiple configurable TX endpoints: low-level-tx-endpoints. Each configurable TX endpoint low-level-tx-endpoint map to a static TX endpoint static-low-level-tx-endpoint. ✓ List of multiple configurable RX endpoints: low-level-rx-endpoints. Each configurable RX endpoint low-level-rx-endpoint map to a static RX endpoint static-low-level-rx-endpoint. ✓ List of multiple TX links: low-level-tx-links. Each low-level-tx-link, One end link e-CPRI data flow model eth-flow defined in the o-ran-processing-element.yang, the other end link to configurable TX endpoint low-level-tx-endpoint. ✓ List of multiple RX links: low-level-rx-links. Each RX link low-level-rx-link, one end link to e-CPRI data flow model eth-flow defined in the o-ran-processing-element.yang, the other end link to configurable TX endpoint low-level-rx-endpoint.

# 7 PORT]:[BAND-SECTOR]:[CCID]:[RU-PORT] = 2:6:4:4.
<du-port-bitmask> 1100000000000000 </du-port-bitmask> <band-sector-bitmask> 0011111100000000 </band-sector-bitmask> <ccid-bitmask> 0000000011110000 </ccid-bitmask> <ru-port-bitmask> 0000000000001111 </ru-port-bitmask> A4.6.3 U-Plane Endpoint Addressing For FHGW based on e-CPRI Option7-2 to CPRI Option8, eaxc-id is used for resource mapping and U- 7-2→8

# 16 Plane endpoint addressing.
Different eaxc-id correspond to different logical functions, such as cell, carrier, air separation data flow, etc. It identifies the end-to-end data flow from the processing end of the O-DU to the end of the O-RU antenna.

# 3 During the configuration procedure:
O-DU should configure the eaxc-id for FHGW U-Plane endpoints.so as to realize the mapping between 7-2→8 logical functions and FHGW physical resources. Refer to the YANG model low-level-tx-endpoint and 7-2→8 low-level-rx-endpoint in the o-ran-uplane-conf-hub.yang. O-DU should configure the relation between the U-Plane endpoint and the northward e-CPRI data flow for the FHGW , to realize the mapping between the northward e-CPRI data flow and the O-RU physical resources. 7-2→8 8 O-DU should configure the relation between the U-Plane endpoint and the southward e-CPRI data flow for the FHGW , to realize the mapping between the data flow to e-CPRI and the physical resources of O-RU . 7-2→8 8

# 11 See 15.2.4 shared cell for details.
O-DU should configure the relation between the U-Plane endpoint and the southward CPRI data flow for the FHGW , to realize the mapping between the southward CPRI data flow and the O-RU physical resource. 7-2→8 8

# 14 See 15.2.4 shared cell for details.
In the procedure of data transmission, combined with the 15.2.1.1 CPRI U-Plane data flow model: In the downlink direction, the FHGW obtains the e-CPRI data flow from the e-CPRI interface, finds the 7-2→8 corresponding U-Plane Tx endpoint(low-level-tx-endpoint) according to eaxc-id, and sends the processed data to the CPRI data flow on the corresponding CPRI interface. In the uplink direction, after the FHGW receives the CPRI data flow from the CPRI interface, it finds the 7-2→8 corresponding U-Plane Rx endpoint(low-level-rx-endpoint), according to eaxc-id, and sends the processed data to the e-CPRI data flow on the corresponding e-CPRI interface. The rules for configuring eaxc-id by O-DU are as follows:

# 24 - For the same uplink U-Plane data flow,
✓ The low level TX endpoint (low-level-tx-endpoint) in FHGW should be configured with the same 7-2→8 eaxc-id with TX endpoint (tx-endpoint) in O-RU ;

# 27 - For the same downlink U-Plane data flow,
✓ The low level RX endpoint (low-level-rx-endpoint) in FHGW should be configurated with the same 7-2→8 eaxc-id with the RX endpoint (rx-endpoint) in O-RU ; The FHGW should reject configuration requests that violate the above rules. 7-2→8 The diagram below shows an example of eaxc-id assignment in the architecture converting from eCPRI

# 33 Option7 to CPRI Option8.

# 12 Note:
✓ The low-level-rx-endpoint and the low-level-tx-endpoint can be assigned to the same eaxc-id. ✓ The NETCONF server should reject configuration requests that violate the above rules. ✓ The default eaxc-id parameter has a value of 0.

# 17 Pre-condition:
- The M-Plane connection between the NETCONF client and the NETCONF server is established.

# 19 Post-condition:

# 20 • Assign eaxc-id to the U-Plane transceiver endpoint.

# 21 • Carrier creation can be further performed.

# 22 Procedure:
1) The NETCONF client determines the following elements whether exist provided by the NETCONF server:
- low-level-tx-endpoint element: by reading o-ran-uplane-conf-hub.yang of the static-low-level-tx-
endpoints list;
- low-level-rx-endpoint element: by reading o-ran-uplane-conf-hub.yang of the static-low-level-rx-
endpoints list;

# 5 • interface elements: by reading o-ran-interfaces.yang interface list.
2) The NETCONF client determines the ability and parameters of O-RU exposure through the following nodes:

# 7 • the static-low-level-tx-endpoints and the static-low-level-rx-endpoints exposed ability.

# 8 • the endpoint-types and the endpoint-capacity-sharing-groups exposed ability,

# 9 Note 1 :
✓ The information above shall be considered when the NETCONF client concatenates low-level-t/rx- endpoints (where the argument name points to static-level-t/rx-endpoints). 3) For the elements identified in Step 1), the NETCONF client checks the following relationships:

# 13 • static-low-level-tx-endpoint element and interface element;

# 14 • static-low-level-rx-endpoint element and interface element.
4) For static-low-level-rx-endpoint, the NETCONF client determines its ability to support time-management- free and/or time-managed:
- The information of the delay service type supported by the endpoint is exposed through the parameter
delayed-data-transfer-supported under static-low-level-rx-endpoint. and Supporting time management is a mandatory feature.
- Configure the non-time-managed-delay-enabled parameter of low-level-rx-endpoint. the default value
of this parameter is FLASE, namely the endpoint support time management service by default. 5) The NETCONF client can optionally check the transmission connection of the NETCONF server, as described in Chaper 4.6 in [3].

# 24 Note 2:
✓ After this step completes smoothly, the NETCONF client knows which NETCONF servers provide the low-level-tx-endpoint and low-level-rx-endpoint elements that the Tx/Rx endpoint of the NETCONF client service has access to. 6) The NETCONF client determines accessible the low-level-rx-endpoint elements and the low-level-tx- endpoint elements, suitable for the target cell configuration (that is, connected to a specific antenna array and able to support the target business type). 7) The NETCONF client assigns an unique eaxc-id to the endpoint identified in Step 1).

# 32 Note 3:
✓ For all endpoints connected to the same interface element, the eaxc-id is enforced to be unique. and is associated with either the lower-level-rx-endpoint element or the lower-level-tx-endpoint element.

# 4 11.3, "Delay Management of shared Cell".
A4.7.1 Convention The current delay measurement and management model is implemented according to the FHGW functional 7-2→8 model given in Section 15.2.4. The functional model supports the following combine types: Combine type1: Uplink data from southward CPRI interfaces are combined in CPRI domain, after processed by the Low PHY and output in the format of Option7-2x at the FHGW northward interface, namely uplink data of 7-2→8

# 10 CPRI domain combined within the FHGW .
7-2→8 Combine type 2: Southward Option7-2x port (e-CPRI) Northward data can be combined in the 7-2x data domain. This mode is the FHM mode of O-RAN Option7-2x shared cell. This method supports the combine of 1~n sub-FHGW 7- uplinked data at the FHGW . 2→8 7-2→8 Corresponding to Combine type 1, the combine delay of Option8 field is reflected as a part of TBDelayUL. Corresponding to Combine type 2, the combine delay of option7-2x field is reflected as T_Comb.

# 16 Unsupported combines:
Data combine between Option8 southward port and Option7-2X southward port is not currently supported. A4.7.2 Delay Parameters Based on e-CPRI's definition of reference points, take the 2-level FHGW cascade as an example, and the 7-2→8 delay reference points are shown in the figure below. Figure 4 Definition I of Time delay reference point and delay parameter

# N FHGW7-2→8 symbols of figure Time delay parameter model Specification
cascades DL UL e-CPRI T12_n T12_n_min T34_n_min Configure parameters. network T34_n T12_n_max T34_n_max O-DU parameter acquisition method: transmission Method 1: Predefined delay Method 2: Delay measurement (For the NTH Notify O-RU8 via M-Plane fronthaul connection, n=1...N) O-DU TX/RX T1a C Plane T1a_min_cp_dl T1a_min_cp_ul Intermediate values. window Ta4 T1a_max_cp_dl T1a_max_cp_ul According to the receive/send window of FHGW7-2→8 and network transmission delay calculation

# U T1a_min_up Ta4_min
Plane T1a_max_up Ta4_max O-DU delay NA T1a_max_upO- Ta4_maxO-DU The capability parameter of O-DU. O-DU profile DU RXmaxO-DU can be told to O-RU8 via M-Plane TXmaxO-DU FHGW7-2→8#1 T_Copy T_Copy T_Comb Capability parameters (not configurable). Copy/combine T_Comb The FHGW7-2→8 is reported to the O-DU processing via the M-Plane delay on NA NA Ta3_prime_max Configure parameters. southward T_Waiting O-DU is configured to the FHGW7-2→8 via cascade port the M-Plane FHGW7-2→8#2 TBDel C Plane TBDelay_min_c TBDelay_min_cp_ul Capability parameters (not configurable). Processing ayDL p_dl TBDelay_max_cp_ul Set values for bandwidth, subcarrier delay on TBDelay_max_ intervals, and ports southward TBDel cp_dl It may include: directly ayUL The IQ data received from the northward connected port interface in the cache is extracted to the FHGW7-2→8 Low PHY processing unit; delay profile U Plane TBDelay_min_u TBDelay_min_up_ul Low PHY treatment p_dl TBDelay_max_up_ul Make a copy of the data to send to the TBDelay_max_ southward interface up_dl NA Tcp_adv_dl Capability parameters (not configurable) The descending C-Plane is relative to the advance of the -U-Plane Make a copy of the data to send to the southward interface FHGW7- TB2a C Plane TB2a_min_cp_d TB2a_min_cp_ul Intermediate values. 2→8#2+O-RU8 TBa3 l TB2a_max_cp_ul equivalent TB2a_max_cp_ delay dl

# U Plane TB2a_min_up TBa3_min
TB2a_max_up TBa3_max Figure 5 Definition II of delay reference point and delay parameter The time of delay in Option 7-2 fronthaul changes within a certain range，because of transmission changes in the packet switching network, includes：

# 5 Table 1 Delay Parameters
A4.7.3 Relation of Delay Parameters

# 8 Table 2 Relation of delay parameters
DL UL CPRI Optical T12_3 = T34_3 = (T14-Toffset)/2 fiber delay calculation e-CPRI MSG5 tD = (t2-tCV2)-(t1+tCV1) delay measurement O-DU TX/RX T1a_max_up ≤ TB2a_max_up+ T12_min Ta4min ≤ TBa3min + T34min window T1a_min_up ≥ TB2a_min_up + T12_max Ta4max ≥ TBa3max + T34max calculation T1a_max_cp_dl ≤ TB2a_max_cp_dl + T1a_min_cp_ul ≥ TB2a_min_cp_ul + T12_min T12_max T1a_min_cp_dl ≥ TB2a_min_cp_dl + T1a_max_cp_ul ≤ TB2a_max_cp_ul + T12_max T12_min O-DU delay T1a_max_up-T1a_min_up≥TXmaxO-DU RXmaxO-DU≥Ta4_max-Ta4_min profile constraints T1a_max_upO-DU≥T1a_max_up Ta4_maxO-DU≥Ta4_max Shared cell T_Copy < T_Comb hypothesis Shared cell See section 3.14.4.4 configuration parameter relationships A4.7.4 Timing Relations in Uplink and Downlink The following examples is figure of timing relationships of the U-Plane data transmission. A4.7.4.1 Timing Relations in Uplink Option7-2 t=0 Ta4_max O-DU Ta4_min Receive Window(UL) U T34_1_min Option7-2 T34_1_max Ta3_prime_max T_Comb T_Comb FHGW#1 T34_2_min T34_2_max Option7-2 TBDelay_min_up_ul Send Window(UL) FHGW#2 U TBDelay_max_up_ul Option8 S I y Q m D b A o T l# A 0 T34_3 CPRI IQ CPRI IQ Ta3+T_Cal_UL O-RU T_CPRI Symbol#0 Option8 Figure 6 An example of uplink U-Plane (IQ) data timing UL delay model parameters are shown in the figure above, and the conditions for the time series relationships to be established are as follows： Condition 1： The introduction of a cascade of FHGW s does not change the total delay between O-DU and 7-2→8

# 9 O-RU
Because the processing delay of uplink U-Plane message combining is added to the total prequel delay between O-DU and O-RU , the distance between O-DU and O-RU must be reduced in order to maintain the same delay between O-

# 8 8
DU and O-RU compared with the cascade node, so as to ensure that O-DU receives UL U-Plane messages in the O- DU receiving window. In other words, the prequel configuration should satisfy:

# 14 T34_max≥T34_1_max+T_Comb(for FHGW #1)+T34_2_max
7-2→8 Generalize to the case that there are N FHGW cascading in the fronthaul network, 7-2→8 𝑁 𝑁−1

# 16 ∑T34_i_max≤T34_max−∑T_Comb(for O−Hub#𝑖)
𝑖=1 𝑖=1

# 17 Among which：
- T34_n_max is the maximum transmission delay between FHGW #1 and O-DU (n=1), and the maximum
7-2→8 transmission delay between FHGW #n and FHGW #n-1 (n=2..., N); 7-2→8 7-2→8
- T_comb is the processing delay of FHGW up-combine procedure, which depends on the capability of FHGW
7-2→8 7- and is reported through M-Plane. 2→8
- T34_max is the maximum uplink transmission delay between O-DU and the final FHGW .
7-2→8

# 4 6.
Condition 2： UL U-Plane data sent by The FHGW to the northward node for combining does not exceed 7-2→8

# 6 Ta3_prime_max at the latest.
In order to ensure that O-DU receives UL U-Plane messages in the O-DU receiving window, the latest time that FHGW #1 can send to UL U-Plane messages combined with O-DU is "Ta4_max-T34_1_max". Because 7-2→8 T34_1_max depends on the location of FHGW #1, you need to tell FHGW #1 the latest time to send. This time 7-2→8 7-2→8 is defined as Ta3_prime_max, which needs to be configured to FHGW #1 through M-Plane, and satisfies: 7-2→8

# 11 Ta3_prime_max (for FHGW #1)≤Ta4_max-T34_1_max
7-2→8 Generalize to the case that there are N FHGW cascaded in the fronthaul network, 7-2→8

# 13 Ta3_prime_max (Cascading FHGW #𝑛)
7-2→8 𝑛−1 𝑛 ∑T_Comb (for cascading FHGW #𝑖), 𝑛≥2

# 14 ≤ Ta4_max− ∑T34_𝑖_max−{ 7-2→8
𝑖=1 𝑖=1 0, 𝑛=1 Condition 3： The FHGW 's wait time for combine processing should be greater than or equal to the time it 7-2→8 receives all UL data Consider T_Comb, receiving UL U-Plane messages before "Ta3_prime_max-T_comb" is limited to UL message combination. In other words, even if FHGW #1 did not receive all UL U-Plane messages before "Ta3_prime_max- 7-2→8 t_comb", FHGW #1 should combine any UL messages received and send them to O-DU before 7-2→8 Ta3_prime_max.This time "Ta3_prime_max (configuration) -T_comb (ability)" is defined as T_Waiting and is counted in FHGW #1.In order to combine all UL U-Plane messages, the configured Ta3_prime_max should meet the 7-2→8 following criteria: T_Waiting = Ta3_prime_max (for FHGW #1) - t_comb (for FHGW #1)≥TBa3_max+ T_34_2_max 7-2→8 7-2→8 Generalize to the case that there are N FHGW cascading in the fronthaul network, 7-2→8 𝑁 𝑁−1 TBa3_max + ∑ T34_𝑖_max + ∑T_Comb (for FHGW #𝑖) ≤ Ta3_prime_max (for FHGW #𝑛) 7-2→8 7-2→8 𝑖=𝑛+1 𝑖=𝑛 A4.7.4.2 Timing Relations in Downlink Figure 7 Example of timing sequence of downlink U-Plane (IQ) data 7. The DL temporal relationship as shown in the figure above is valid under the following conditions： 8. Condition 1: The maximum transmission delay of uplink and downlink is equal, namely,

# 5 9. T12_max=T34_max

# 6 10. T12_i_max=T34_i_max (i=1~N)
11. Condition 2: T_Comb>T_Copy, the uplink combine delay is greater than the downlink copy delay Let's say that the UL combine is larger than the DL copy delay. Therefore, as long as the existing network and the 7-2→8 the shared cell does not require additional requirements, which is that the downlink data can be received in the receiving window of the FHGW #2. Although DL does not need additional requirements, the O-DU knows that T_Copy is 7-2→8 beneficial to the optimization of the O-DU fan window. Therefore, T_Copy is defined as the ability parameter of the

# 13 FHGW .
7-2→8 A4.7.5 Delay Management Procedure The procedure of delay management is shown in the figure below.

# O -D U
O p tio n 7 -2 FH G W #1 O p tio n 7 -2 FH G W #2 O p tio n 8

# O -RU
O p t Send w indow (D L) U Sym bol#0 U plane date T12_1_m in T_Copy T12_2_m in io n 7 - 2 T12_1_m ax T_Copy U Receive W indow T12_m T12_2_m ax (D L) TBDelay_m ax_up_dl ax_up T1a_m in_up TBDelay_m in_up_dl CPRI IQ T12_3 Sym bol#0 IQ D A TA CPRI IQ T2a+T_Cal_D T_CPRI O p t io n 8 L t=0 Sym bol#0

# 5 CPRI domain.

# 6 Downlink direction:
Section 4.9 DL_Offset parameter in Option8 O-RU delay management model determines the "data/time" relationship at the FHGW CPRI outlet. DL_Offset, CPRI domain T12 of O-RU , T_Cal_DL of O-RU , T2a of O- 7-2→8 8 8 RU , these four parameters determine the occurrence of air port delay of downlink signals in an additive way. Under the current condition of indoor, DL_Offset is required to have a certain margin because it involves the copy, summations and air port alignment between O-RU , so that the increase or deletion of O-RU in the same copy domain will not

# 8 8
cause the delay adjustment of other O-RU in the same cell. Specifically, the delay manager (O-DU) is required to reserve sufficient margin when constructing DL_Offset. The implementation methods are as follows: 1) Reserve enough delay amplification (such as adding the delay corresponding to X KM fiber by default in the indoor scene); a lt [U P

# O -H U B #1 O -H O -D U

# N ETCO N F N ETCO N F N ETCO N F
Server Server C lient G et H U B unit cap ability p aram eters T_C opy/C om b G et H U B unit cap ability p aram eters M TB D elayD L/U L Plane G et R RU cap ability p aram eters T_C al_D L/U L_m ax/Toffset/T2 a/Ta3 /N C onfigu re Total D elay(T_C PRI) for CPR I M G et H U B D elay Param eter T 14 Plane C alc T 12 _3 ,T34 _3 ,T_C al_D L/U L M easure d elay of eCPR I M easure d elay of eCPR I C alc T 12 _1 ,T12 _2 ,T34 _1 ,T34 _2 C alc sen d and received W ind ow s ] C alc T 3 a_prim e _m ax

# M C onfig Tim e Param eter T 3 a_prim e _m ax
Plane C alc T _w aiting M C onfigu re delay co m pensatio n valu e T_C al_D L/T_C al_U L Plane

# U B #1
M easure T14 of CP RI N

# O -H
ETCO N F Server

# U B #1
2) Increase the delay margin corresponding to x KM fiber based on the measurement and calculation of the first

# 8 8

# 5 Uplink direction:
The principle is similar to the downlink case, except that the T_Cal_UL setting only involves O-RU . A4.7.7 YANG Model File o-ran-delay-management-hub.yang o-ran-shared-cell.yang A4.8 FHGW Shared Cell Configuration

# 10 7-2→8
A4.8.1 General Description A4.8.2 YANG Model File The FHGW in the architecture of e-CPRI Option7-2 to CPRI Option8 needs to support two type of shared cell 7-2→8 configurations at the same time:
- FHGW directly connected to O-RU shared cell configuration
7-2→8 8

# 17 - FHGW cascade FHGW shared cell configuration
7-2→8 7-2→8

# 3 7-2→8 8
In this specification, O-RU under the same FHGW can be configured for cell combination. In this

# 8 7-2→8
configuration, the FHGW shared cell information model consists of the following parts: 7-2→8

# 6 ✓ northward e-CPRI U-Plane interface

# 7 ✓ U-Plane configuration, configure the Low PHY
✓ copy and combine FHGW direct O-RU , is used to configure radio unit via CPRI interface connection, 7-2→8 8 and the radio unit combination constitutes the first share of data copy and combine the data model

# 10 ✓ southward CPRI U-Plane interface

# 12 Figure 10 FHGW directly connecting O-RU Information
7-2→8 8 A4.8.2.2 Overview of FHGW Cascade to FHGW

# 14 7-2→8 7-2→8
In this specification, FHGW cascading is supported. O-RU under cascading FHGW s and directly 7-2→8 8 7-2→8 connected O-RU at the same level are not required to be configured for cell combining. In this configuration, the shared cell information model includes the following parts:

# 18 ✓ northward e-CPRI U-Plane interface
✓ copy and combine of FHGW cascade to FHGW 7-2→8 7-2→8

# 20 ✓ southward e-CPRI U-Plane interface

# 6 RAN.WG4.MP.0-v03.00
A4.8.2.4 YANG Model of Southward e-CPRI U-Plane Interface The FHGW southward cascading FHGW U-Plane interface YANG model is based on Ethernet and e-CPRI, 7-2→8 7-2→8 refer to Chapter 4 of O-RAN.WG4.MP.0-v03.00 A4.8.2.5 YANG Model of Southward CPRI U-Plane Interface The FHGW southward CPRI U-Plane interface YANG model is based on CPRI, see 3.3.2 for details 7-2→8 A4.8.2.6 YANG Model of U-Plane Configuration The U-Plane configuration of the FHGW contains two parts. 7-2→8 One is Low PHY U-Plane level configuration. In the architecture of this specification, the Low PHY is deployed in the FHGW and the High PHY is deployed in the O-DU, so the U-Plane configuration of the Low PHY is required. 7-2→8

# 3 Please see the details in 15.2.2.3.
Another is shared cell U-Plane configuration. This part similar to the U-Plane configuration in the shared cell section of the O-RAN specification, which is mainly contains the configuration of U-Plane parameters such as eaxc-id related to downlink copy and uplink combine. To avoid misunderstanding, if not specifically mentioned, U-Plane configuration means Low PHY U-Plane configuration. A4.8.2.7 YANG Model of Shared Cell Configuration

# 10 Two type of shared cell configurations:
- Shared cell configuration of FHGW connect to O-RU , add a new YANG model file:o-ran-shared-cell-ecpri7-
7-2→8 8 to-cpri8.yang
- Shared cell configuration of FHGW cascade FHGW , reuse the existing YANG mode file:o-ran-shared-
7-2→8 7-2→8 cell.yang Each type of shared cell contains three parts: the parameters of shared cell capability, the parameters of shared cell downlink copy and the parameters of shared cell uplink combine. The following tables compare the main relations and differences between above two type of shared cell configuration with the option7-2 to Option7-2 FHM shared cell configuration in O-RAN specification.

# 20 The parameters of shared cell capability，shared-cell-module-cap:
Table 3 Comparison of parameters of shared cell capability YANG model of shared cell in ORAN- FHGW 7-2→8 cascade FHGW 7-2→8 connect to O-RU 8 in this chapter WG4.MP.0-v03.00 FHGW 7-2→8 in this Annex t-copy reuse Not needed. Reuse the TBDelay-*** in o-ran-delay- management.yang t-combine reuse Not needed. Reuse the TBDelay-*** in o-ran-delay- management.yang ta3-prime-max-upper-range reuse Not needed. The delay of CPRI fronthaul is consistent. max-number-node-copy-and-combine reuse reuse max-number-eaxcid-copy reuse reuse max-number-eaxcid-combine reuse reuse compression-method-supported reuse reuse

# 23 Share cell downlink copy parameters，shared-cell-copy-entities:
Table 4 Comparison of parameters of shared cell downlink copy YANG model of shared cell in ORAN- FHGW 7-2→8 cascade FHGW 7-2→8 connect to O-RU 8 in this chapter WG4.MP.0-v03.00 FHGW 7-2→8 in this Annex north-node-processing-element reuse low-level-tx-endpoint south-node-processing-element reuse，note 1 south-node-processing-element-cpri tx-eaxc-id reuse Necessary but no need to define, refer to the definition in o-ran-uplane-conf-hub.yang rx-eaxc-id reuse No downlink-radio-frame-offset reuse Necessary but no need to define, refer to the definition in o-ran-uplane-conf-hub.yang downlink-sfn-offset reuse Necessary but no need to define, refer to the definition in o-ran-uplane-conf-hub.yang

# 7 Shared cell uplink combines parameters，shared-cell-combine-entities:
Table 5 Comparison of parameters of shared cell uplink combine YANG model of shared cell in ORAN- FHGW 7-2→8 cascade FHGW 7-2→8 connect to O-RU 8 in this chapter WG4.MP.0-v03.00 FHGW 7-2→8 in this Annex north-node-processing-element reuse low-level-rx-endpoint south-node-processing-element reuse south-node-processing-element-cpri rx-eaxc-id reuse o-ran-uplane-conf-hub.yang compression-format reuse reuse ta3-prime-max reuse No downlink-radio-frame-offset reuse o-ran-uplane-conf-hub.yang downlink-sfn-offset reuse o-ran-uplane-conf-hub.yang n-ta-offset reuse o-ran-uplane-conf-hub.yang number-of-prb reuse No A4.8.3 Details of Operation This section describes the operation details of the shared cell. A4.8.3.1 Topology Discovery O-DU can obtain the O-RU topological relation (adjacency relation) of a shared cell. The shared cell topology discovery procedure is filled in to the ethernet forwarding Information Base (FIB) using the LBM/LBR connection check procedure running at the Ethernet layer as defined in Section 3.3.1.5 Connectivity Detection, and FIB is obtained based on O-DU. The difference is that, since the FHGW southward is based on CPRI IQ link, only the Ethernet 7-2→8 network-based M-Plane has MAC address, therefore, the LBM/LBR procedure in the 3.3.1.5 Connectivity detection section, the FHGW southward is based on M-Plane. Transparent bridge functionality is used for O-RU with 7-2→8 8 shared cell functionality running in FHGW and/or cascading mode. 7-2→8 O-DU determines the topology by the following two-step procedure： 1) In the first phase, the procedure of using the 3.3.1.5 connectivity detection section is used to execute the Ethernet connection monitoring for all the discovered O-RU MAC addresses. The echo of the Ethernet loopback from the found MAC address should ensure that the transparent bridge in the FHGW and 7-2→8 the cascading mode is automatically learning to pass the MAC addresses of these devices Note: In addition to Ethernet connection monitoring, DHCP discovery, Call Home and M-Plane connection establishment can also be used to fill in information in FIB, so maybe O-RU has a northward port to do the above. 2) In the second phase, O-DU uses the o-ran-ethernet-forwarding.yang model to discovery which MAC addresses have been learned by the ethernet bridge function. O-DU uses each Ethernet forwarding entry to determine adjacency relationships The following figure shows an example of the MAC address configuration of the FHGW mode and the FHGW 7-2→8 7-2→8 operation pattern configuration, and the relevant transparent bridge fib table.

# 3 Figure 13 Shared cell downlink copy
The FHGW needs to support two type of shared cell configurations. So does the uplink combine configuration. 7-2→8
- Shared cell uplink combine configuration of FHGW connect to O-RU
7-2→8 8
- Shared cell uplink combine configuration of FHGW cascade to FHGW
7-2→8 7-2→8

# 8 Examples are shown in the figure below
northward eCPRI interface shared cell uplink combine of FHGW cascade to

# U Plane of Low PHY FHGW
shared cell uplink combine of FHGW connect to O-RU Cell#1 option7-2 eCPRI Inform of U plane Cell#1 option8 CPRI Inform of U plane southward CPRI southward CPRI southward eCPRI southward eCPRI interface #1 interface #N interface #1 interface #N Cell#2 option7-2 eCPRI Inform of U plane

# 11 Figure 14 Shared cell uplink combine
A4.8.3.3 Configuration of FHGW Connect to O-RU

# 5 - COMMON

# 6 - SELECTIVE

# 7 - eCPRI7-to-CPRI8
The function of downlink copy of shared-cell-copy-entities-ecpri7-to-cpri8 is configured in two parts.

# 10 1) low-level-tx-endpoint
This parameter identifies the data source of the downlink copy of the shared cell, points to the Tx endpoint in the Low

# 12 PHY U-Plane configuration.

# 13 2) south-node-processing-elements-cpri
This parameter identifies the data destination of downlink copy of the shared cell, points to the CPRI flow, which is defined in the CPRI interface YANG model. The function of uplink combination of shared-cell-combine-entities-option8-cpri is configured in two parts

# 18 1) low-level-rx-endpoint
This parameter identifies the data destination of the shared cell uplink combine and points to the Rx endpoint in the

# 20 Low PHY U-Plane configuration.

# 21 2) south-node-processing-elements-cpri
This parameter identifies the data source of the downlink copy data of the shared cell and points to the CPRI-Flow defined in the FHGW southward CPRI interface model. 7-2→8 Note: In contrast to the shared cell in O-RAN specification, the downlink copy and uplink combine configuration do not define the shared cell U-Plane configuration part. This is because all the U-Plane configuration information (such as eaxc-id, downlink-radio-frame-offset, downlink-sfn-offset, and N-TA-Offset of uplink only parameter) is fully defined in the low-level-tx-endpoint of Low PHY U-Plane configuration, and the shared cell part does not need to define it again. A4.8.3.4 Configuration of FHGW Cascade to FHGW

# 30 7-2→8 7-2→8
For the configuration of FHGW cascade to FHGW , continue to reuse the COMMON mode of YANG model 7-2→8 7-2→8 of shared-cell-copy-combine in the o-ran-shared-cell.yang. Which consistent with the configuration method of FHM shared cell in the O-RAN specification A4.9 FHGW Startup Example

# 34 7-2→8

# 5 +--rw eaxc-id-group-configuration {mcap:EAXC-ID-GROUP-SUPPORTED}?

# 6 | +--rw max-num-tx-eaxc-id-groups? -> /mcap:module-capability/ru-capabilities/eaxcid-grouping-capabilities/max-num-tx-eaxc-id-groups

# 7 | +--rw max-num-tx-eaxc-ids-per-group? -> /mcap:module-capability/ru-capabilities/eaxcid-grouping-capabilities/max-num-tx-eaxc-ids-per-group

# 8 | +--rw max-num-rx-eaxc-id-groups? -> /mcap:module-capability/ru-capabilities/eaxcid-grouping-capabilities/max-num-rx-eaxc-id-groups

# 9 | +--rw max-num-rx-eaxc-ids-per-group? -> /mcap:module-capability/ru-capabilities/eaxcid-grouping-capabilities/max-num-rx-eaxc-ids-per-group

# 10 | +--rw tx-eaxc-id-group* [representative-tx-eaxc-id]

# 11 | | +--rw representative-tx-eaxc-id uint16

# 12 | | +--rw member-tx-eaxc-id* uint16

# 13 | +--rw rx-eaxc-id-group* [representative-rx-eaxc-id]

# 14 | +--rw representative-rx-eaxc-id uint16

# 15 | +--rw member-rx-eaxc-id* uint16

# 16 +--rw user-plane-configuration

# 17 +--rw low-level-tx-links* [name]

# 18 | +--rw name string

# 19 | +--rw processing-element -> /o-ran-pe:processing-elements/ru-elements/name

# 20 | +--rw low-level-tx-endpoint -> /user-plane-configuration/low-level-tx-endpoints/name

# 21 +--rw low-level-rx-links* [name]

# 22 | +--rw name string

# 23 | +--rw processing-element -> /o-ran-pe:processing-elements/ru-elements/name

# 24 | +--rw low-level-rx-endpoint -> /user-plane-configuration/low-level-rx-endpoints/name

# 25 | +--rw user-plane-uplink-marking? -> /o-ran-pe:processing-elements/enhanced-uplane-mapping/uplane-mapping/up-marking-name

# 26 +--ro endpoint-types* [id]

# 27 | +--ro id uint16

# 28 | +--ro supported-section-types* [section-type]

# 29 | | +--ro section-type uint8

# 3 | +--ro managed-delay-support? enumeration

# 4 | +--ro multiple-numerology-supported? boolean

# 5 | +--ro max-numerology-change-duration? uint16

# 6 | +--ro max-control-sections-per-data-section? uint8

# 7 | +--ro max-sections-per-symbol? uint16

# 8 | +--ro max-sections-per-slot? uint16

# 9 | +--ro max-remasks-per-section-id? uint8

# 10 | +--ro max-beams-per-symbol? uint16

# 11 | +--ro max-beams-per-slot? uint16

# 12 | +--ro max-prb-per-symbol? uint16

# 13 | +--ro prb-capacity-allocation-granularity* uint16

# 14 | +--ro max-numerologies-per-symbol? uint16

# 15 +--ro endpoint-capacity-sharing-groups* [id]

# 16 | +--ro id uint16

# 17 | +--ro max-control-sections-per-data-section? uint8

# 18 | +--ro max-sections-per-symbol? uint16

# 19 | +--ro max-sections-per-slot? uint16

# 20 | +--ro max-remasks-per-section-id? uint8

# 21 | +--ro max-beams-per-symbol? uint16

# 22 | +--ro max-beams-per-slot? uint16

# 23 | +--ro max-prb-per-symbol? uint16

# 24 | +--ro max-numerologies-per-symbol? uint16

# 25 | +--ro max-endpoints? uint16

# 26 | +--ro max-managed-delay-endpoints? uint16

# 27 | +--ro max-non-managed-delay-endpoints? uint16

# 28 +--ro endpoint-prach-group* [id]

# 29 | +--ro id uint16

# 3 | +--ro name string

# 4 | +--ro restricted-interfaces* -> /if:interfaces/interface/name

# 5 | +--ro endpoint-type? -> ../../endpoint-types/id

# 6 | +--ro capacity-sharing-groups* -> ../../endpoint-capacity-sharing-groups/id

# 7 +--ro static-low-level-rx-endpoints* [name]

# 8 | +--ro name string

# 9 | +--ro restricted-interfaces* -> /if:interfaces/interface/name

# 10 | +--ro endpoint-type? -> ../../endpoint-types/id

# 11 | +--ro capacity-sharing-groups* -> ../../endpoint-capacity-sharing-groups/id

# 12 | +--ro prach-group? -> ../../endpoint-prach-group/id

# 13 +--rw low-level-tx-endpoints* [name]

# 14 | +--rw name -> /user-plane-configuration/static-low-level-tx-endpoints/name

# 15 | +--rw compression!

# 16 | | +--rw iq-bitwidth? uint8

# 17 | | +--rw compression-type enumeration

# 18 | | x--rw bitwidth? uint8

# 19 | | +--rw (compression-format)?

# 20 | | +--:(no-compresison)

# 21 | | +--:(block-floating-point)

# 22 | | | +--rw exponent? uint8

# 23 | | +--:(block-floating-point-selective-re-sending)

# 24 | | | +--rw sres-exponent? uint8

# 25 | | +--:(block-scaling)

# 26 | | | +--rw block-scalar? uint8

# 27 | | +--:(u-law)

# 28 | | | +--rw comp-bit-width? uint8

# 29 | | | +--rw comp-shift? uint8

# 3 | | | +--rw block-scaler? uint8

# 4 | | +--:(modulation-compression)

# 5 | | | +--rw csf? uint8

# 6 | | | +--rw mod-comp-scaler? uint16

# 7 | | +--:(modulation-compression-selective-re-sending)

# 8 | | +--rw sres-csf? uint8

# 9 | | +--rw sres-mod-comp-scaler? uint16

# 10 | +--rw frame-structure? uint8

# 11 | +--rw cp-type? enumeration

# 12 | +--rw cp-length uint16

# 13 | +--rw cp-length-other uint16

# 14 | +--rw offset-to-absolute-frequency-center int32

# 15 | +--rw number-of-prb-per-scs* [scs]

# 16 | | +--rw scs mcap:scs-config-type

# 17 | | +--rw number-of-prb uint16

# 18 | +--rw e-axcid

# 19 | | +--rw o-du-port-bitmask uint16

# 20 | | +--rw band-sector-bitmask uint16

# 21 | | +--rw ccid-bitmask uint16

# 22 | | +--rw ru-port-bitmask uint16

# 23 | | +--rw eaxc-id uint16

# 24 | +--rw downlink-radio-frame-offset uint32

# 25 | +--rw downlink-sfn-offset int16

# 26 +--rw low-level-rx-endpoints* [name]

# 27 | +--rw name -> /user-plane-configuration/static-low-level-rx-endpoints/name

# 28 | +--rw compression

# 29 | | +--rw iq-bitwidth? uint8

# 3 | | +--rw (compression-format)?

# 4 | | +--:(no-compresison)

# 5 | | +--:(block-floating-point)

# 6 | | | +--rw exponent? uint8

# 7 | | +--:(block-floating-point-selective-re-sending)

# 8 | | | +--rw sres-exponent? uint8

# 9 | | +--:(block-scaling)

# 10 | | | +--rw block-scalar? uint8

# 11 | | +--:(u-law)

# 12 | | | +--rw comp-bit-width? uint8

# 13 | | | +--rw comp-shift? uint8

# 14 | | +--:(beam-space-compression)

# 15 | | | +--rw active-beam-space-coeficient-mask* uint8

# 16 | | | +--rw block-scaler? uint8

# 17 | | +--:(modulation-compression)

# 18 | | | +--rw csf? uint8

# 19 | | | +--rw mod-comp-scaler? uint16

# 20 | | +--:(modulation-compression-selective-re-sending)

# 21 | | +--rw sres-csf? uint8

# 22 | | +--rw sres-mod-comp-scaler? uint16

# 23 | +--rw frame-structure? uint8

# 24 | +--rw cp-type? enumeration

# 25 | +--rw cp-length uint16

# 26 | +--rw cp-length-other uint16

# 27 | +--rw offset-to-absolute-frequency-center int32

# 28 | +--rw number-of-prb-per-scs* [scs]

# 29 | | +--rw scs mcap:scs-config-type

# 3 | | +--rw scs mcap:scs-config-type

# 4 | | +--rw ul-fft-sampling-offset? uint16

# 5 | +--rw e-axcid

# 6 | | +--rw o-du-port-bitmask uint16

# 7 | | +--rw band-sector-bitmask uint16

# 8 | | +--rw ccid-bitmask uint16

# 9 | | +--rw ru-port-bitmask uint16

# 10 | | +--rw eaxc-id uint16

# 11 | +--rw non-time-managed-delay-enabled? boolean

# 12 | +--rw downlink-radio-frame-offset uint32

# 13 | +--rw downlink-sfn-offset int16

# 14 | +--rw n-ta-offset uint32

# 15 +--rw general-config

# 16 +--rw regularization-factor-se-configured? boolean

# 17 +--rw little-endian-byte-order? boolean
A4.10.2 o-ran-shared-cell-ecpri7-to-cpri8 Module module: o-ran-shared-cell-ecpri7-to-cpri8

# 20 +--rw shared-cell-cpri7-to-cpri8

# 21 +--ro shared-cell-module-cap-ecpri7-to-cpri8

# 22 | +--ro max-number-node-copy-and-combine uint8

# 23 | +--ro max-number-eaxcid-copy uint8

# 24 | +--ro max-number-eaxcid-combine uint8

# 25 | +--ro compression-method-supported* [] {FHM-eCPRI7-to-CPRI8}?

# 26 +--rw shared-cell-config

# 27 +--rw (shared-cell-copy-combine-mode)?

# 28 +--:(COMMON)

# 3 | | +--rw north-node-processing-element? -> /o-ran-pe:processing-elements/ru-elements/name

# 4 | | +--rw south-node-processing-elements* -> /o-ran-pe:processing-elements/ru-elements/name

# 5 | | +--rw shared-cell-copy-uplane-config {FHM}?

# 6 | | +--rw tx-eaxc-id* [eaxc-id]

# 7 | | | +--rw eaxc-id uint16

# 8 | | +--rw rx-eaxc-id* [eaxc-id]

# 9 | | | +--rw eaxc-id uint16

# 10 | | +--rw downlink-radio-frame-offset uint32

# 11 | | +--rw downlink-sfn-offset int16

# 12 | +--rw shared-cell-combine-entities* [name]

# 13 | +--rw name string

# 14 | +--rw north-node-processing-element? -> /o-ran-pe:processing-elements/ru-elements/name

# 15 | +--rw south-node-processing-elements* -> /o-ran-pe:processing-elements/ru-elements/name

# 16 | +--rw ta3-prime-max? uint32

# 17 | +--rw shared-cell-combine-uplane-config {FHM}?

# 18 | +--rw rx-eaxc-id* [eaxc-id]

# 19 | | +--rw eaxc-id uint16

# 20 | | +--rw comression-method

# 21 | | +--rw iq-bitwidth? uint8

# 22 | | +--rw compression-type enumeration

# 23 | | x--rw bitwidth? uint8

# 24 | | +--rw (compression-format)?

# 25 | | +--:(no-compresison)

# 26 | | +--:(block-floating-point)

# 27 | | | +--rw exponent? uint8

# 28 | | +--:(block-floating-point-selective-re-sending)

# 29 | | | +--rw sres-exponent? uint8

# 3 | | +--:(u-law)

# 4 | | | +--rw comp-bit-width? uint8

# 5 | | | +--rw comp-shift? uint8

# 6 | | +--:(beam-space-compression)

# 7 | | | +--rw active-beam-space-coeficient-mask* uint8

# 8 | | | +--rw block-scaler? uint8

# 9 | | +--:(modulation-compression)

# 10 | | | +--rw csf? uint8

# 11 | | | +--rw mod-comp-scaler? uint16

# 12 | | +--:(modulation-compression-selective-re-sending)

# 13 | | +--rw sres-csf? uint8

# 14 | | +--rw sres-mod-comp-scaler? uint16

# 15 | +--rw downlink-radio-frame-offset uint32

# 16 | +--rw downlink-sfn-offset int16

# 17 | +--rw n-ta-offset uint32

# 18 | +--rw number-of-prb uint16

# 19 +--:(SELECTIVE)
augment /sc:shared-cell/sc:shared-cell-config/sc:shared-cell-copy-combine-mode:

# 22 +--:(eCPRI7-to-CPRI8)

# 23 +--rw shared-cell-copy-entities-ecpri7-to-cpri8* [name]

# 24 | +--rw name string

# 25 | +--rw low-level-tx-endpoint? -> /uc-hub:user-plane-configuration/low-level-tx-endpoints/name

# 26 | +--rw south-node-processing-elements-cpri* -> /o-ran-pe:processing-elements/ru-elements/name

# 27 +--rw shared-cell-combine-entities-ecpri7-to-cpri8* [name]

# 28 +--rw name string

# 29 +--rw low-level-rx-endpoint? -> /uc-hub:user-plane-configuration/low-level-tx-endpoints/name


---

<!-- SOURCE: combined_oran_wg8.md -->
<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG8.TS.AAD.0-R005-v16.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG8.TS.AAD.0-R005-v16.00"
---

# RAN Deployment Scenarios and Requirements

### Deployment Scenario - Example

The reference design of the O-CU and O-DU is specified in this document to support all deployment scenarios. In this version, the deployment scenario of indoor pico cell is used as an example.

### Requirements

Table 4-1 lists the features and requirements supported by the reference design based on the target release specification. Requirements marked “R1” and ‘R2” are addressed in this release of the document. Requirements below are aligned to deployment requirements in  [25].

| Feature | Requirement | WG8 Specification Release |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| L1 | Carrier BW | 100MHz | R1 |
| L1 | Subcarrier Spacing | 30kHz, 120kHz | R1 |
| L1 | Number of carriers | 1 | R1 |
| L1 | Frame structural format | Static TDD | R1 |
| L1 | Number of spatial streams (after precoder) | 2T2R | R1 |
| L1 | Number of spatial streams (after precoder) | 4T4R | R1 |
| L1 | Numerology/BWP number | 1 | R1 |
| L1 | Numerology/BWP number | 4 | R3 |
| L1 | BWP change | RRC signaling | R3 |
| L1 | BWP change | MAC CE | R3 |
| L1 | MIMO | 30K   DL:2*2MIMO   UL:2*2MIMO | R1 |
| L1 | MIMO | 30K DL:4*4MIMO   UL:2*2MIMO | R1 |
| L1 | Modulation | DL: QPSK,16QAM,64QAM,256QAM UL: π/2-bpsk, QPSK, 16QAM, 64QAM | R1 |
| L1 |  | UL: 256QAM | R2 |
| L1 | Capacity | Support at least 4 100MHz bandwidth 2T2R TrxPs | R1 |
| L1 |  | Support at least 2 100MHz bandwidth 4T4R TrxPs | R3 |
| L1 |  | Support at least 8 100MHz bandwidth 2T2R TrxPs | R2 |
| L1 |  | Support at least 4 100MHz bandwidth 4T4R TrxPs | R3 |
| L1 | Peak Data Throughput | With 100MHz bandwidth and TDD frames DL: UL (1:1), the DL peak throughput of one cell shall not be lower than 750 Mbps and the UL peak throughput of one cell shall not be lower than 250 Mbps. (2T2R） | R3 |
| L1 | Data Compression | Support | R3 |
| L1 | PRACH Format | Format 0 | R1 |
| L1 | PRACH Format | Format B4 | R1 |
| L1 | PRACH Format | Format C2 | R1 |
| L1 | PDCCH Format | DCI 0-0 | R1 |
| L1 | PDCCH Format | DCI 0-1 | R1 |
| L1 | PDCCH Format | DCI 1-0 | R1 |
| L1 | PDCCH Format | DCI 1-1 | R1 |
| L1 | PUCCH Format | Format0 | R1 |
| L1 | PUCCH Format | Format1 + Format2 | R1 |
| L1 | PUCCH Format | Format 3 | R2 |
| L1 | SCS of PBCH | 30 kHz | R1 |
| L1 | Power control | Enable | R2 |
| L2 | HARQ | Enable | R1 |
| L2 | AMC | Enable | R1 |
| L2 | SRS | Enable | R2 |
| L2 | Scheduling algorithm | Round Robin | R1 |
| L2 | Scheduling algorithm | PF (Proportional Fair) | R1 |
| L2 | Scheduling algorithm | Slice aware | R5 |
| L2 | Latency | Control Plane: 10 ms User Plane DL: 4 ms (eMBB) | R1 |
|  | Inter-NR Handover | R3 |  |
| L3 | Intra-NR Handover |  | R5 |
| L3 | Paging |  | R3 |
| L3 | F1AP |  | R1 |
| L3 | E1AP |  | R3 |

# RAN Architecture

3GPP specifies the 5G RAN architecture and interfaces between the logical functional blocks. The following diagram presents the overall 5G network architecture [12] as well as the logical partition of the main functions.

As specified by 3GPP in [12] a gNB may consist of a gNB-CU-CP, multiple gNB-CU-UPs and multiple gNB-DUs. The gNB-CU-CP is connected to the gNB-DU through the F1-C interface. The gNB-CU-UP is connected to the gNB-DU through the F1-U interface. The gNB-CU-UP is connected to the gNB-CU-CP through the E1 interface. One gNB-DU is connected to only one gNB-CU-CP. One gNB-CU-UP is connected to only one gNB-CU-CP.

The following diagram represents the separation of the CU control plane and user plane.

As shown in Figure 5-3 [24], O-RAN defines the RAN architecture with a focus on new, open interfaces between the logical nodes and physical partitions of the RAN functions.

### O-CU/O-DU Lower Layer Split Architecture

In some RAN deployment scenarios, e.g., a microcell, the physical layer is split between the O-DU and O-RU. O-RAN WG4 defines the open front haul interface which is adopted in the split architecture as shown in Figure 5-3. The O-DU contains the higher physical layer High-PHY functions while the O-RU contains the lower physical layer Low-PHY functions as specified in [22]. The fronthaul software interface is discussed in section 7.10 of this specification.

# O-DU Software Architecture

The O-DU software architecture is illustrated in Figure 5-1. The O-DU is composed of L1 and L2 functional blocks which interface through the FAPI interface [29]. The functional blocks are further described in the following sections.

### O1 Interface

The O-DU O1 interface supports the following management capabilities:

- Transport establishment, startup sequence and heartbeat management
- Software management
- Performance (KPIs) management
- Fault management
- File management
- Provisioning management
- Synchronization
- Fronthaul delay management
The protocol stack for this interface is shown in Figure 6-2

The O1 interface needs to be secured as specified in [39].

# O-DU L1 Functional Blocks

In O-RAN architecture (refer to Figure 5-2), PHY layer functionality is realized as High-PHY in O-DU and Low-PHY in O-RU. Some of the PHY functionalities may be realized using hardware acceleration.

Below is a list of PHY related functional blocks.

- PUSCH, PUCCH, PRACH
- PDSCH, PDCCH, PBCH
- UL/DL Reference Signals (DMRS, PTRS, SRS, PSS, SSS)
- Fronthaul handler
- FAPI handler
- Hardware accelerator handler
- Timing sync
- L1 Task Control Module
In the following sections, the functional blocks are described in detail.

### Physical Uplink Shared Channel

The uplink physical layer processing of transport channels consists of the following steps as described in [6]:

- Transport Block CRC attachment
- Code Block segmentation and Code Block CRC attachment
- Channel coding: LDPC coding
- Physical layer hybrid-ARQ processing
- Rate matching
- Scrambling
- Modulation: π/2 BPSK (with transform precoding only), QPSK, 16QAM, 64QAM and 256QAM
- Layer mapping, transform precoding (enabled/disabled by configuration), and precoding
- Mapping to assigned resources and antenna ports
The frequency domain IQ data received by the fronthaul module are sent to the L1 PUSCH processing functions and the output of the PUSCH is the user bit stream. Figure 7-1 illustrates the PUSCH functional blocks.

Resource Element (RE) Demapper: The RE Demapper function separates the DMRS REs and the user data REs. The DMRS REs are provided to the channel estimation function.

Channel Estimation: The channel estimation functional block provides a channel estimate based on the DMRS of resource elements of the user data.

MIMO Equalizer: The MIMO equalizer function processes the received IQ data signals to reverse the distortion incurred during the signal transmission over the air. Using the channel information acquired via the channel estimation, the equalizer tries to restore the IQ symbol sent by the transmitter. The symbols may be conveyed as log-likelihood ratios (LLRs) for use by the LDPC decoder.

Rate Dematching: The rate dematching function performs the reverse operation steps of rate matching for LDPC code in clause 5.4.2 in 3GPP TS38.212 [5].

LDPC Decoder: The LDPC decoder function uses received log-likelihood ratios (LLRs) to compute the data bits based on selected decoder algorithm. The selection of the decoder algorithm is out of scope of this specification.

CRC Check: The CRC function block checks the parity bits using the generator polynomials in Subclause 5.1 of 3GPP TS38.212 [5]. Refer to the 3GPP specification for details.

### Uplink Control Channels

Physical Uplink Control Channel (PUCCH) conveys Uplink Control Information (UCI) and supports all the formats defined in clause 6.3.2 of 3GPP TS38.211 specification [4]. Refer to this specification for details of the formats as well as the control message including:

- HARQ-ACK (Hybrid Automated Repeat Request Acknowledgement).
- Scheduling Request (SR)
- Channel State Information (CSI)

### Uplink Reference Signals

5G NR introduces the following reference signals.

- Demodulation Reference Signal (DMRS) for PUSCH and PUCCH
- Phase Tracking Reference Signal (PTRS)
- Sounding Reference Signal (SRS)
Refer to clause 6.4.1 in 3GPP TS38.211 specification [4] for more details of the reference signals.

### Physical Downlink Shared Channel

The downlink physical layer processing of transport channels consists of the following steps as described in [6]:

- Transport Block CRC attachment
- Code Block segmentation and Code Block CRC attachment
- Channel coding: LDPC coding
- Physical-layer hybrid-ARQ processing
- Rate matching
- Scrambling
- Modulation: QPSK, 16QAM, 64QAM and 256QAM
- Layer mapping
- Mapping to assigned resources and antenna ports
Figure 7-2 illustrates the functional blocks of the PDSCH for Category A and Category B radio.

In Category A radio, the precoder function is located in O-DU; In Category B radio, the precoder function is located in O-RU.

Cyclic Redundancy Check Generation: The CRC function block computes the parity bits using the generator polynomials in Subclause 5.1 of 3GPP TS38.212 [5]. Refer to the 3GPP specification for details.

Segmentation: The transport block is segmented when it exceeds the code block size specified by 3GPP TS38.212 [5]. Refer to Subclause 7.2.3 for details.

LDPC Encoder: Refer to Subclause 5.3.2 in 3GPP TS38.212 [5] for details.

Rate Matching: Refer to Subclause 5.4.2 in 3GPP TS38.212 [5] for details.

Scrambler: Refer to Subclause 7.3.1.1 in 3GPP TS38.211 [4] for details.

Modulation Mapper: Refer to Subclause 7.3.1.2 in 3GPP TS38.211 [4] for details.

Layer Mapper: Refer to Subclause 7.3.1.3 in 3GPP TS38.211 [4] for details.

RE Mapper: Refer to Subclause 7.3.1.5 and Subclause 7.3.1.6 in 3GPP TS38.211 [4] for details.

### Physical Downlink Control Channel

A Physical Downlink Control Channel (PDCCH) carries control information (DCI) such as scheduling information and resource grant to UEs. The PDCCH includes one or more Control Channel Elements (CCE, consists of 6 resource element group) based on the aggregation level defined by 3GPP specification [4]. The PDCCH processing flow is similar to the PDSCH. The PDCCH uses a polar code instead of LDPC. QPSK modulation is the designated modulation scheme for the PDCCH bits block.

### Downlink Reference Signals

The Downlink Reference Signals include:

- Demodulation Reference Signal (DMRS) for PDSCH, PDCCH and PBCH.
- Phase Tracking Reference Signal (PTRS)
- Channel State Information Reference Signal (CSI-RS)
- Primary Synchronization Signal (PSS)
- Secondary Synchronization Signal (SSS)
Refers to clause 7.4.1 in 3GPP TS38.211 specification [4] for more details related to the reference signals. The PSS and SSS combined with PBCH is known as SS/PBCH block, which consists of:

- 1 symbol PSS, 1 symbol SSS and 2 symbol PBCH.

### Physical Broadcast Channel

PBCH carries 5G NR system information for UEs. UEs need to decode the PBCH information in order to access the 5G cell. PBCH information includes: downlink bandwidth, SFN, timing information in radio frame and SS burst periodicity. Polar codes are used as error correcting code for PBCH.

PBCH Payload Generation: Creates the PBCH payload message, Refer to Subclause 7.1.1 in 3GPP TS38.212 [5] for details.

Scrambling: Refer to Subclause 7.1.2 in 3GPP TS38.212 [5] for details.

CRC attachment: Refer to Subclause 7.1.3 in 3GPP TS38.212 [5] for details.

Channel Encoding: Refer to Subclause 7.1.4 in 3GPP TS38.212 [5] for details.

Rate Matching: Refer to Subclause 7.1.5 in 3GPP TS38.212 [5] for details.

Data Scrambling: Refer to Subclause 7.3.1.3 in 3GPP TS38.211 [4] for details.

Data Modulation: Refer to Subclause 7.3.3.2 in 3GPP TS38.211 [4] for details.

Resource Element Mapping: Refer to Subclause 7.3.3.3 in 3GPP TS38.211 [4] for details.

DMRS Sequence Generation: Refer to Subclause 7.4.1.4 in 3GPP TS38.211 [4] for details.

DMRS Scrambling: Refer to Subclause 7.4.1.4 in 3GPP TS38.211 [4] for details.

DMRS Modulation: Refer to Subclause 7.3.3.2 in 3GPP TS38.211 [4] for details.

### Physical Random Access Channel

Physical Random Access Channel (PRACH) is used to carry preamble from UE to gNB. Based on PRACH, gNB is able to calculate the timing advance of each UE and make adjustments on Rx timing for all UEs. PRACH adopts ZC (Zero Correlation) sequences as preamble. It supports two sequence lengths (139 and 839) with various formats targeted for different deployment scenarios. As O-RAN fronthaul separates the PRACH processing into two parts,  the CP removal, frequency shift, samples decimation/filter, FFT and de-mapping function are handled by O-RU; the O-DU PRACH processing flow is shown in Figure 7-4.

Each O-DU PRACH processing function blocks are described below. The details of the PRACH signal generation, formats are described in 3GPP specifications.

Root Sequence Generation: Refer to Subclause 6.3.3.1 in 3GPP TS38.211 [4] for details.

Correlation: Perform correlation operation between root sequence and received signals.

iFFT: Perform the iFFT operation of received signals.

Antenna Combination: Combine the received signals from all the antennas.

Noise Estimation: Perform the noise estimation operation

Peak Search: Detect the peak for different root sequences.

Preamble Detection and Timing Advance (TA) Estimation: Determine the preamble sequence and timing advance estimation.

### L1 Tasks Processing Flow

The L1 function processes are described in previous sections. Those processing blocks focus on specific task that needs to be completed in a timely fashion.  Figure 7-5 shows the L1 related task processing blocks.

L2 FAPI processing: Handle L2 interface request/response based on FAPI protocol. And triggers additional processing task if required.

Timing events processing: Handle timing related operations and triggers any prescheduled periodic tasks.

FEC acceleration processing: Handle FEC related operations and passes the FEC request to hardware and invokes call back function when the acceleration processing is completed.

Front haul processing: Handle all the front haul related Tx/Rx operations, and queue task if further processing is needed.

UL task scheduling: Manage all queued UL tasks and starts the processing operation accordingly.

DL task scheduling: Manage all queued DL tasks and starts the processing operation accordingly.

PUSCH processing: Process the PUSCH related tasks, refer to section 7.1 for details of processing requirements.

PUCCH processing: Process the PUCCH related tasks, refer to section 7.2 Error! Reference source not found. for details of processing requirements.

PRACH processing: Process the PRACH related tasks, refer to section 7.8 for details of processing requirements.

PDSCH processing: Process the PDSCH related tasks, refer to section 7.4 for details of processing requirements.

PDCCH processing: Process the PDCCH related tasks, refer to section 7.5Error! Reference source not found. for details of processing requirements.

PBCH processing: Process the PBCH related tasks, refer to section 7.7 for details of processing requirements.

M-Plane processing: Process the fronthaul M-plane related task for O-RU configuration, management, and operation control.

Energy Saving processing: Process the O-RAN energy saving related power capability configuration and power control using M-plane and CUS-plane messages.

### Front Haul Module

The fronthaul module supports the open fronthaul interface specified by O-RAN Fronthaul Specification [22] lower level split distributed gNB architecture [22]. The detailed requirements and control and data plane protocols are described in O-RAN Fronthaul CUS-plane specification. The module is responsible for communication between the O-DU and O-RU. The fronthaul module processes incoming O-RAN Fronthaul CUS-plane packets and constructs outgoing CUS-plane packets. Figure 7-6 illustrates an example implementation of hardware accelerated packet processing related to the fronthaul interface.

The FH library APIs are listed in the following table.

| API Name | Parameters | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| FH Init | Returns handle which is used later | Instantiate the lib memory model and thread |
| FH start | FH handle | Start processing front haul packets for DL and UL |
| FH stop | FH handle | Stop processing of DL and UL |
| FH close | FH handle | Remove usage of front haul resources |
| FH mm destroy | FH handle | Destroy memory structure |

### O-DU Timing Synchronization

In order to meet the timing accuracy in microsecond to sub-microsecond precision requirement over the air interface, O-DU clock needs to synchronize with the Grand Master Clock (GMC). The location of GMC and its connectivity to DU is out of scope of this specification. Please refer to Chapter 9 of [22] for details of S-plane (synchronization) aspects.

O-RAN fronthaul defines several timing distribution network topologies. IEEE1588 is used for O-RAN nodes timing synchronization protocol. GNSS based timing synchronization is another option for O-DU acquiring high accuracy timing. With GNSS based timing synchronization, first, the satellite timing messages are decoded by GNSS receiver, then the 1PPS output signal is generated. As described in O-RAN white box hardware reference specification, the 1PPS signal is connected with the PHC on fronthaul NIC. The O-DU is able to choose either IEEE1588 or GNSS synchronization method. Or it can use either one as primary timing synchronization source while keeping the other one as the backup. Here, a LinuxPTP based timing synchronization method is shown as an example. It may be used for O-DU to synchronize with GMC and distribute the clock to O-RU.

In Figure 7-7, first, O-DU syncs up backhaul NIC PHC with GMC; second, the system clock syncs up with backhaul PHC using PHC2Sys; then the O-DU software (fronthaul library) gets the system clock using Linux kernel function call. The fronthaul NIC PHC syncs up with system clock through PTP4L. The O-DU becomes boundary clock and is able to distribute the clock through front haul network to O-RU.

In case of loss of PTP sync in a vO-DU (Cloudified O-DU), the O-Cloud is notified using an event trigger as described in 7.2.3 of [38].

### Accelerator Abstraction Layer (AAL)

In previous sections, the focus is on running a complete L1 layer data on general purpose processor. In certain use cases, a dedicated hardware is used along with host processor to fulfil specific requirements on latency, power efficiency, etc. The hardware accelerator can be implemented on many types of devices such as GPU, FPGA, or ASIC. The accelerator hardware is implementation dependent and is out of scope of this specification. Even so, it is necessary to define a standardized interface to hardware accelerator, which will make the software stack portable with different hardware platform. Based on the data processing flow, the hardware accelerators are categorized into two models: lookaside and inline. In the lookaside model, an accelerator is invoked by the L1 host application to offload designated functions; when acceleration functions are completed, the results are sent back to the host application. With the inline acceleration model, the host processor invokes the accelerator to offload the data processing work, however the result is not sent back to the host. The following figures illustrates L1 processing flow based on these two types of hardware acceleration models.

- Lookaside accelerator processing flow
- Inline accelerator processing flow
Figure 5.8 shows the lookaside acceleration model. For the uplink data processing, the host receives the data from O-RAN via fronthaul interface; for the downlink processing, the host processor receives the data from L2 via L1/L2 interface. When either uplink or downlink data needs to be processed by accelerator, the host processor handovers the workload to the accelerator; after the data processing is completed, the results are turn over to the host. Figure 5-9 shows the inline accelerator model. In this case, the accelerator directly receives the uplink data from O-RU via front haul interface. When the L1 process is completed, the result is sent to the host via AAL in order to continue the L2 processing. For the downlink process, the finished L2 data is sent to the accelerator via AAL for L1 processing. When the L1 downlink is completed, the results are sent to O-RU.

### AAL Lookaside Profile

### Lookaside FEC Profile

In general, any combination of L1 functions can be offload to the accelerator. In real deployment, only those functions take more computing power will be offloaded to the accelerator. The accelerator design is implementation specific. To better represent accelerator’s functional capabilities, AAL profile is used to differentiate the combination of accelerator architecture and functions. AAL lookaside profile indicates the accelerator adopted the lookaside processing model. The AAL lookaside processing flows are explained in the early section. During the L1 process, the host application initiates the offload work to accelerator, meanwhile the host may perform other work in parallel, it retrieves the result once the work is complete. The AAL FEC Profile includes both uplink and downlink function of PDSCH and PUSCH. The downlink functions are CRC Generation, LDPC Encoding, Rate Matching. The uplink functions are Rate De-matching, LDPC Decoder, CRC Check. These functions can be invoked sequentially or individually.

### FEC APIs

Refer to the O-RAN OSC for FEC APIs details.

### Massive MIMO Optimization

The Massive MIMO (mMIMO) technology is adopted to improve the wireless performance, coverage and the QoS. The beamforming method is the essential element of mMIMO which greatly affects the throughput of wireless network. To optimize the mMIMO beamforming, the non-RT and near-RT RIC utilize the UE/BS channel condition, mobility, and measured performance data to assisted beamforming mode selection. The Grid-of-Beam (GoB) [40] and non-Grid-of-Beam (non-GoB) [41] are two different approaches of beamforming methods that can be used in the O-RAN system [40]. In case of non-GoB, the beamforming weights are generated dynamically in real time instead of using predefined beam set. As O-RAN does not standardize the beamforming algorithm, there are many algorithms that vendors can chose for non-GoB BF weight calculate. The SRS based dynamic BF weight generation is commonly used for non-GoB beamforming weight calculation. There are many factors (SRS periodicity, channel estimation and BF weight calculation algorithms) will affect the effectiveness of non-GoB performance, and the combination of these factors corresponding a BF mode. Various non-GoB modes can be designed to meet the requirements of different UE locations and channel situations [42]. Figure 7-11 diagram describes the SRS based non-GoB operation flow.

Figure 7-11 Non-GoB mMIMO operation flow

When non-GoB is used, the L1 and L2 need to share the information entities such as BF mode configuration, UE performance measurement KPIs to facilitate the AI/ML model training and inference operations . The following information listed in the Table 7-2.

Table 7-2 L1/L2 Information Entities List

| Info Name | Info type | Description/Notes |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Supported Non-GoB Beamforming Modes [42] | Number of BF mode > 1 (Numeric number)  Optional BF mode Index & description | L1 reports supported beamforming configurations modes and related info when requested via O1 interface |
| DL Synchronization Signal based Reference Signal Received Power (SS-RSRP) [42] |  | Reports the linear average of the DL SS-RSRP (in [W]) from UEs in the cell when SS-RSRP is used |
| DL Synchronization Signal based Signal to Noise and Interference Ratio (SS-SINR)  [42] |  | Reports the linear average of the DL SS-SINR (in [W]) from UEs in the cell |
| UL Sounding Reference Signal based Reference Signal Received Power (SRS-RSRP)  [42] |  | Reports the linear average of the UL SRS-RSRP (in [W]) measured for UEs in the cell. |
| Non-GoB BF Mode Configuration  [43] | BF mode index (Numeric number) | Index represents a vendor defined proprietary Non-GoB BF algorithm. This index is within the range of Supported Non-GoB Beamforming Modes. |

### Fronthaul M-Plane Processing

The fronthaul M-plane is responsible for O-RU configuration management, performance management, software/file management, and fault management. NETCONF/Yang model is used for the fronthaul M-plane protocol. Refer to the WG4 Management Plane Specification for details.

Figure 7-12 Fronthaul M-Plane Processing

Figure 7-12 shows the fronthaul M-plane processing flow which includes the protocol processing, message parsing and preparation, and the M-plane message execution operation.

### Energy Saving Processing

Energy saving (ES) is one of the key features of sustainable mobile network. The O-RAN energy saving function is achieved by utilizing the AI/ML technology to facilitate the ES operation. To optimize decision making, AI/ML model within Non-RT RIC/ Near-RT RIC predicts traffic, user mobility, and resource usage based on the RAN network status info and AI model. The non-RT RIC and near-RT RIC energy saving application determine the proper time to put the RAN operation in different energy saving modes and resume the normal operation when needed.  The following sections describes energy saving operations to fulfill different use case scenarios.

### Energy Saving Feature Capability and Configuration

The O-RU reports energy saving capability, configurations to O-DU via M-plane during initialization. The capabilities include carrier deactivation for energy saving, TRX control module capabilities, ASM module capabilities, and energy saving capability common information. This information will be used by O-DU to setup the O-RU into proper energy saving state when it is required. The details of ES capabilities are described in the O-RAN fronthaul M-plane specification.

### Cell/Carrier Power Control

When the mobile network traffic volume is low, it is possible for RAN to get into save energy mode by switching off carrier(s) or entire cell without impairing the user experience. The handover may be required before bringing down carrier or cell.

The cell/carrier power control is done via M-plane message and operation procedure is provided below.

Power Off Cell/Carrier:

•	The L1 function set the parameters energy-saving-enabled to “TRUE” and send M-plane message to O-RU

•	L1 receives Cell/Carrier power off command from L2

•	L1 set parameter [tr]x-array-carrier::deactive for correspond cell or carrier, and send the M-plane message to O-RU.

•	If the O-RU fails to change the cell/carriers power state, an error message is sent to O-DU by O-RU

Power On Cell/Carrier:

•	The L1 function set the parameters energy-saving-enabled to “TRUE” and send M-plane message to O-RU

•	L1 receives Cell/Carrier power off command from L2

•	L1 set parameter [tr]x-array-carrier:: active for correspond cell or carrier, and send the M-plane message to O-RU.

•	If the O-RU fails to power on the cell/carriers power state, an error message is sent to O-DU by O-RU

### RF Channel Reconfiguration

In 5G mobile networks, when mMIMO is used to enhance the network performance on capacity, it requires more power for the RF channels. To create a green mobile network, during a low network traffic period, the O-RU can reduce the power consumption by switching off some Tx/Rx arrays. The RF Channel Reconfiguration operation procedure can be triggered by RIC xApp.

Before the RF Channel Reconfiguration can be performed, the O-DU gathers the O-RU supported antenna pattern via M-plane message, then the O-DU will send the TRX_CONTROL command to the O-RU to disable a set of the antenna arrays.

Figure 7-13 RF channel reconfiguration Processing

RF Reconfiguration Operation flow:

1.	Receives RF reconfiguration from RIC energy saving application.

2.	O-DU sends TRX control C-plane message with new antenna carrier pattern to O-RU.

3.	Case 1, step1: For defined sleep period case, the O-RU configures the antennas and disable certain designated antennas and set sleep timer for specified period time at sleep start time.

4.	Case 1, step2: O-RU will wake up and resume to normal operation state after sleep period.

5.	Case 1, step3: O-RU may send Ack/Nack message to O-DU if the TRX message includes request for Ack/Nack.

6.	Case 2, step1: For undefined sleep period case, the O-RU configures the antennas and disable certain designated antennas and enter sleep state at sleep start time.

7.	Case 2, step2: O-RU receives second TRX control C-plane message with a set of antennas pattern.

8.	Case 2, step3: O-RU set the antenna pattern and enable specified antennas.

### Advanced Sleep Mode

This energy saving feature is based on the capability of the O-RU. During system initialization phase, the O-RU reports its capable of supporting the ASM feature, which includes the number of sleep modes. Based on the policy and trained model, when the network traffic is low, RIC ES app can put the RAN into different level of sleep mode. The O-DU will take action to put the O-RU into sleep mode after receiving instruction from Near-RT RIC xApp.

the Advanced Sleep Mode operation processing flow show in Figure 7-14.

Figure 7-14 Advanced sleep mode Processing

Advanced Sleep Mode Operation flow:

1.	Receives Advanced Sleep Mode request from RIC energy saving application.

2.	O-DU sends ASM C-plane message to O-RU.

3.	Case 1, step1: For defined sleep period case, the O-RU enters the sleep state for specified period time at sleep start time.

4.	Case 1, step 2: O-RU will wake up and resume to normal operation state after sleep timer expired.

5.	Case 1, step 3: O-RU may send Ack/Nack message to O-DU if the ASM message includes request for Ack/Nack.

6.	Case 2, step 1: For undefined sleep period case, the O-RU enters the sleep state at sleep start time.

7.	Case 2, step 2: O-RU receives second ASM control C-plane message to wake up O-RU.

8.	Case 2, step 3: O-RU wake up.

### DMRS-BF

DMRS-based beamforming uses DMRS to calculate beamforming weights in the O-RU. The O-DU provides DMRS configurations of UEs/UE group to the O-RU. Upon receiving I/Q data via air interface, the O-RU uses DMRS for channel estimation, computes beamforming weights, and applies them to both PUSCH and DMRS data. This technique dynamically adjusts beam direction based on frequent DMRS updates, making it ideal for high mobility environments. It may also complete the equalization process within O-RU.

This method excels in tracking fast-moving UEs, ensuring stable, high-quality connections. By focusing energy on the UE, it improves signal quality, reduces interference, increases system capacity, and optimizes energy use. Thus, DMRS-based beamforming enhances network performance, supports high mobility, and optimizes signal direction for better efficiency and connectivity.

### DMRS-BF Initialization

The initialization process for DMRS-based beamforming begins by obtaining the DMRS-BF configuration information via the M-plane. Once the configuration is retrieved, the system checks whether DMRS-BF-EQ or DMRS-BF-NEQ is supported by both the O-DU and O-RU. If any one type of DMRS-BF is supported, the O-DU and O-RU are initialized accordingly, enabling channel estimation and beamforming based on the DMRS data. However, if DMRS-BF is not supported by either unit, the system automatically configures an alternative beamforming method, such as SRS-based or codebook-based beamforming, provided those methods are supported. This ensures that even in the absence of DMRS-BF capabilities, the system can still achieve optimized beamforming through other available techniques.

Figure 7-15 DMRS-BF Initialization Process

### DMRS-BF Operation

Figure 7-16 PUSCH DMRS-BF Processing

### RRM and SINR Measurement

To make optimal decisions regarding resource allocation, interference management, and ensuring quality of service, the O-DU requires specific Radio Resource Management (RRM) measurements based on signals prior to beamforming and equalization. However, these measurements are typically not available directly at the O-DU when using the DMRS-BF option. Instead, the O-RU is responsible for conducting these RRM measurements and transmitting the data to the O-DU for further analysis and decision-making.

During the system initialization phase, the O-RU announces its supported RRM measurements, which allows the O-DU to configure the required measurements through an M-plane configuration message. It is important to note that different RRM measurements may have varying reporting frequencies. Additionally, the requirements for RRM measurements may differ depending on whether DMRS-BF-EQ or DMRS-BF-NEQ is being used. For example, in the case of DMRS-BF-NEQ, the O-RU may modify a UE layer's time or frequency offset due to its beamforming operations. In such cases, the O-RU must declare that these parameters remain unaffected by its processing. For O-RUs supporting DMRS-BF-NEQ, RRM measurements related to DMRS-BF are optional, but may be provided if the O-RU declares this capability.

The O-RU conveys the RRM measurements to the O-DU via C-Plane messages, sending them on a slot-by-slot basis for every slot in which DMRS-BF is utilized. If supported and configured by the O-DU, the O-RU may send RRM measurements multiple times per slot to ensure accurate and timely data delivery for resource management and system optimization.

Figure 7-17 RRM Measurement and SINR Processing

### Shared O-RU

Figure 7-18 Shared O-RU Architecture

# O-DU L2 Functional Blocks

Figure 8-1 illustrates the L2 functional blocks of O-DU as a reference design. An implementation may specify the modules differently.

O-DU-OAM-Agent: This module terminates O1 interface from the SMO or the management system. The OAM agent module:

- performs startup and registration procedure with SMO
- establishes and maintains transport and NETCONF connections
- handles configuration and reconfiguration messages on O1
- stores the latest configuration
- relays configuration parameters to appropriate L1 (High-PHY) and L2 modules
- receives and relays notifications over O1
- handles software management for O-DU and O-RU
- collects and send performance data files for O-DU and O-RU performance counters
The procedures and call flows for the above operations are described in [26]. The management plane for fronthaul supports only hierarchical mode as defined currently in [26].

E2 handler: This module terminates E2 interface from near real-time RIC. This module handles the following:

- E2/SCTP interface termination
- E2AP protocol message send/receive
- Configure appropriate KPI measurements in L2 and L1 modules
- Report metrics over E2
- Actions to be relayed to other modules (based on E2 messages)
- Relaying response over E2
The E2 global procedures and functional procedures are defines in [27] and [28] respectively. The E2 service models for different use case implemented by following the generic design described in 8.2.

F1 Control Plane interface handling modules (F1AP handler): It consists of tasks related to cell management, UE management and semi-static Air Interface Resource Management at the cell level. It does tasks defined in 3GPP TS 38.473 [18].

- Cell State Manager: It handles all the tasks related to the handling of cells at O-DU Cell Start, Cell Stop, etc. It also manages a Finite State Machine (FSM) for handling cell specific procedures. This includes maintaining the cell broadcast information. There would be per cell FSM which would run independently of another cell’s FSM.
- UE State Manager: It handles the procedures related to a UE, e.g., SRB packet transfer, UE Context Setup, Release procedure, UE Context Modification procedure, etc. It also manages an internal state machine for handling UE specific procedures. It interacts with other layers like RLC/MAC/F1U for UE level interactions and signaling.
- F1AP Interface Manager: This interacts with the O-CU-CP (Control Unit) to control communication setup, and it exchanges F1AP messages over SCTP interface. It also decodes/encodes the messages and exchanges the same messages with other tasks.
- Resource Manager: This block performs tasks like Admission Control, Bearer Control, etc. It also takes care of managing all the air interface resources for a UE, e.g., physical level resource allocation (SR, CSI resources), etc.
F1 User Plane interface handling modules: It consists of tasks related to Tunnel management, DL and UL Data and Downlink flow control. It does tasks defined in 3GPP TS 29.281 [2] and TS 38.425 [15].

- Data Plane Application: Handles DL Data packets received within 3GPP TS 29.281 [2] defined NR RAN Container and performs UL Data packet transmission for packets received from RLC. This Application invokes eGTPU encapsulation/decapsulation functionality for eGTPU header processing.
- eGTPU encaps/decaps: This functional block performs eGTPU header decapsulation and processing in DL and eGTPU header encapsulation for the UL packets at F1-U.
- Downlink Flow Control: Downlink Data Delivery Status generation with feedback received from RLC.
RLC Protocol modules: These modules handle processing related to SRB and DRB plane. It does tasks defined in 3GPP TS 38.322 [8]. RLC uses the logical channel for data transfer. MAC layer indicates the downlink data notification request for a logical channel along with the desired RLC PDU size. RLC segments (optionally) the SDUs depending upon the size requested from MAC and sends the RLC PDUs to MAC. MAC layer also indicates uplink data by sending RLC PDUs. RLC layer forms SDUs by reassembling the received PDUs and transmits SDUs to upper Layer via F1 interface. It does tasks defined in 3GPP TS 38.322 [8].

- UE and Bearer Context management
- RLC Mode Receiver and Transmitter
- TM Mode
- UM Mode
- AM Mode
MAC Protocol modules: MAC modules include RACH management, HARQ Management, DL and UL Data, BCCH/PCCH/CCCH processing, MAC Transport Block formation, etc. It does tasks defined in 3GPP TS 38.321 [7].

- UE and Bearer Context Management: Stores the semi-static information on air interface resources for the UE. It keeps the QoS related information for the scheduler.
- HARQ Management: Performs DL and UL HARQ management by keeping track of HARQ feedback, HARQ timer and providing free HARQ processes information to the scheduler.
- RACH Manager: RACH (Preamble) resource management, CRNTI Assignment, Message-2,3,4 resource allocation and handling.
- CCCH Manager: Handles the DL and UL CCCH message and corresponding HARQ.
- Resource Assign: PDCCH, PDSCH, PUCCH and PUSCH Resource Assignment based on resource allocation schedule from the scheduler.
- MAC Encoder: It creates MAC Transport block based on input from the scheduler. It interfaces with RLC to get RLC PDUs.
- Demultiplexer: Demultiplexing UL Transport block containing MAC CE and RLC PDUs and sends it to respective tasks.
- CSI Manager: Configuration of “Channel State Information” and informing the CSI feedback from UE to the scheduler.
- PHY-MAC Interface: Receive and transmit the L1-L2 interface messages.
- Beam Failure Detection and Recovery: Beam failure detection in the UE based on the configured beam failure detection reference signal by the gNB and beam failure recovery by performing contention free RACH procedure to the suitable candidate beam.

### L2 MAC Scheduler

Figure 8-2 illustrates the MAC scheduler components present in O-DU architecture. It is assumed that the DU includes complete MAC and scheduler functions implemented in the same physical platform.

NR Scheduler functional block has been further expanded into indicative smaller functional sub-blocks to capture the scheduler functionality.

Note: An actual implementation may divide the scheduler into functional sub-blocks differently.

- DL/UL Resource Scheduler: This corresponds to functionality of time-domain and frequency domain scheduling in DL and UL, respectively. Resource scheduling is performed per scheduling period and may be performed for a single slot or multiple slots. Massive MIMO focuses on beamforming for capacity enhancement with full digital array structure for frequency<6GHz and hybrid/analog architecture for frequency >6GHz. It is also feasible to have single beam approach for low carrier frequency, however multi-beam approach is desirable for higher carrier frequency.   It may include functions such as beam selection, selecting of UEs and associated bearers per scheduling period, allocation of radio resources for PDCCH, PUSCH, PDSCH and associated channels like DMRS. The beam selection is based on various beamforming method supported in the gNB system. In the case of predefined beamforming method, an index called “beamId” indicates the specific beam pre-defined in the O-RU to use in case of hybrid architecture. However, in case of Hierarchical architecture, the beam indices are pre-defined in the O-DU as defined by O-RAN Fronthaul M-Plane specification [21]. The beam selection function selects beam indices “beamId” that is applied to DL or UL data. In the case of dynamic beamforming, the beamforming weights are given to be applied as defined in the O-RAN Fronthaul CUS Plane specification [20]. It may also include functions/algorithm to support slice differentiation as specified by RRMpolicy for the resource type (PRB) so as to meet the specific SLA. It may also include the slice metric so as to prioritize the specific slice scheduling in a particular TTI that enables the gNB DU system to meet the slice level agreement.
- DL/UL Link Adaptation (LA): This functionality performs per UE Link Adaptation in DL and UL, respectively. Link Adaptation may be performed based on channel quality reported by UE or estimated at gNB corrected by BLER. LA would return effective MCS to be used for channel allocation to the UE.
- UL Tx Power Control: Performs Closed loop UL power control for PUSCH, SRS and PUCCH. It may estimate the UL Tx power based on UE feedback (e.g.: Power Headroom Report) or measured UL channels.
- DL/UL MIMO Mode Control: Determines per UE the MIMO mode, in DL and UL, respectively, to be used along with the corresponding precoding matrix.
- TA Manager: Estimating the TA Command for UE based on feedback from L1 using PUSCH, PUCCH and SRS.
Performance metrics (Capacity, throughput etc.) will be dependent on software implementation and underlying hardware.

### Supporting E2 service models

E2 service models are supported as per call flows as per specifications from O-RAN WG5. Each service model enables a use case across O-RAN nodes. The following generic design in O-DU and O-CU supports any service model with report/insert/control/policy services with the neat real-time RIC.

When an E2 message is received at O-DU, the E2 handler module interacts with SM (Service Model) Fanout module to deliver the messages to internal module related to the service model. The SM fanout module consults the SM catalog module and finds the SM specific modules and APIs to be invoked the SM-Service-API-Table module contains maps the following:

- SM service, E2 messages corresponding
- Receiver module(s) for each E2 message and the message contents to be relayed
When the O-DU sends an E2 message, it is sent through the E2 Sender module which consults SM Catalog module and maps the respective E2 message API. The E2 sender uses KPIs in KPI module when KPIs are reported in an E2 message.

O-DU handles E2 messages and performs control or reporting actions as per he service models defined by O-RAN WG3. The following service modules are currently defined

E2SM-KPM: Refer to [42]

E2SM-RC: Refer to [43]

E2SM-CCC: Refer to [44]

### O-DU Cloudification

Please refer to O-RAN WG6 specifications for cloud deployment of O-DU. The network functions need to be secured with cryptographic protection as specified in [39].

### O-DU Security

All the O-DU interfaces need to be secured as specified in [39].

# O-CU Software Architecture

O-CU node interacts with one or more O-DU nodes through F1 interface.

O1 interface is an interface between management entities in Service Management and Orchestration Framework and O-CU. It is used for operation and management, by which FCAPS management, Software management, File management is  achieved.

### F1 Interface

F1 interface supports control plane and user plane separation. The following describe the functions supported over F1-C and F1-U.

The main services and functions of F1-C:

- F1 interface management function
- System Information management function
- F1 UE context management function
- RRC message transfer function
- Paging function
- Warning messages information transfer function
The main services and functions of F1-U:

- Transfer of user data
- Flow control function

### E2 Interface

- A near real-time RIC can configure and control an O-CU via the E2 interface, based on the service models defined. The service models and E2 messages are defined in O-RAN WG3 specifications.

### D2 Interface

O-RAN D2 interface is an inter O-DU interface for carrier aggregation. Refer to O-RAN WG5 specification [45] for D2 interface procedures.

### O-CU Cloudification Aspects

Please refer to O-RAN WG6 specifications for cloud deployment of O-CU.

# O-CU Functional Blocks

Figure 10-1 below outlines the O-CU functional blocks. An implementation may specify the modules differently.

The O-CU comprises of O-CU-CP and O-CU-UP.

### O-CU-CP Functional Blocks

O-CU-CP handles the control plane functionality of O-CU.

### O-CU-CP-OAM-Agent

O-CU-CP-OAM-Agent manages following services of O-CU-CP:

- Configuration and Control Management
- Performance Counter Management
- Fault Management
O-CU-CP-OAM receives the configuration for O-CU-CP and configures all the modules of O-CU-CP. It may perform operations like spawning of O-CU-CP modules, and software downloading for O-CU-CP.

O-CU-CP-OAM collects the performance counters of O-CU-CP and reports it to performance management entity present in the network.

O-CU-CP-OAM manages the faults and alarms raised at O-CU-CP and reports it to fault management entity present in the network.

### gNB Procedure Management

Figure 10-2 shows the detailed view of gNB Procedure Management functional block. gNB Procedure Management manages the non-UE associated NGAP and XnAP procedures like NG/Xn Interface Management and Configuration Transfer procedures as defined in 3GPP TS 38.413 [13], TS 38.423 [14] and TS 38.473 [18]. The functional sub-blocks shown in figure below are indicatively used to capture the functionality of gNB Procedure Management functional block and could be realized differently.

Procedure Management: This functionality handles procedures and business logic involving application of the procedure across multiple cells of the gNB. For example, reset triggered due to NGAP link down involving coordination among multiple cells and UE specific paging as described in 3GPP TS 38.413 [12].

NGAP Interface Management: This functionality manages Interface Management procedures, Configuration Transfer procedures, and Warning Message Transmission Procedures over NGAP interface with AMFs as described in 3GPP TS 38.413 [12]. It establishes the association with AMFs. It monitors the association with AMFs. It also maintains context for each AMF with which O-CU is connected and stores information like link status with AMF.

XnAP Interface Management: This functionality manages the Global procedures over XnAP interface with peer O-CUs as described in 3GPP TS 38.423 [13]. It establishes the association with peer O-CUs and also accepts association requests from peer O-CUs based on configuration provided by higher layers. It monitors the association with peer O-CUs. It also maintains context for each peer O-CU with which O-CU is connected and stores information like link status with peer O-CU.

F1AP Interface Procedure Management: This functionality manages Interface Management procedures over F1AP interface with O-DUs as described in 3GPP TS 38.470 [16] and 38.473 [18]. It establishes the association with O-DUs and also accepts association requests from O-DUs based on configuration provided by higher layers. It monitors the association with O-DUs. It also maintains context for each O-DU with which O-CU is connected and stores information like link status with O-DU.

### Cell Procedure Management

Cell Procedure Management manages the cell level procedures at O-CU like system information management described in 3GPP TS 38.331, procedures for dual connectivity, global procedures like Cell Activation described in 3GPP TS 38.423 [13], Warning Message Transmission procedures, and System Information Procedures described in 3GPP TS 38.473 [18].

It maintains multiple state machines to handle various cell level procedures. It may have separate state machines for various cell procedures like Cell Setup, Cell Delete, Cell Start, Cell Stop, and Cell Reconfiguration. It also maintains context of each cell to store information like cell state, number of UEs served by the cell, and cell broadcast information.

It manages the cell level performance counters and provides this information to O-CU-CP-OAM.

### UE Procedure Management

UE Procedure Management manages the UE Access Control and signalling procedures at O-CU by binding together UE associated RRC, NGAP, XnAP, and F1AP signalling transactions into end-to-end procedures.

This functionality binds together the following signalling procedures on different 3GPP interfaces:

- 3GPP TS 38.331 defined procedures like RRC Connection Control, Inter-RAT mobility, Measurements, UE capabilities and other UE associated procedures.
- 3GPP TS 38.413 [12] defined procedures like UE Context Management procedures, UE Mobility Management procedures, PDU Session Management procedures, Transport of NAS Messages procedures, Trace Procedures, Location Reporting procedures, UE Radio Capability Management procedures, and Data Usage Reporting Procedures.
- 3GPP TS 38.423 [13] defined inter-gNB procedures for Basic mobility and for gNB-gNB Dual Connectivity.
- 3GPP TS 38.473 [18] defined procedures like UE Context Management procedures, and RRC Message Transfer procedures.
This functionality maintains multiple state machines to handle various UE associated procedures. It may have separate state machines for different UE procedures like UE attach, UE handover, UE context modification, and UE measurement. The single FSM handles NGAP and RRC messages involved in a UE associated procedure, coordinating among AMF, UE, O-DU and other modules of O-CU. It also maintains context of each UE to store information like UE state, various UE AP Ids, and ongoing procedure related information.

### RRC Encoder and Decoder

RRC Encoder and Decoder encodes and decodes all RRC ASN content as described in 3GPP TS 38.331. RRC ASN encoding is performed for sending message to UE and for preparing containers to be exchanged during handover, etc. RRC ASN decoding is performed on receiving messages from UE and on receiving containers exchanged during handover, etc.  RRC Encoder and Decoder is accessed by Cell Procedure Management and UE Procedure Management functional blocks. Cell Procedure Management accesses it for RRC ASN encoding of broadcast messages and paging message. UE Procedure Management accesses it for encoding and decoding of all the messages exchanged with UE and for populating the RRC ASN content in handover containers.

### NGAP Encoder and Decoder

NGAP Encoder and Decoder encodes and decodes all NGAP ASN message as described in 3GPP TS 38.413 [12]. NGAP ASN encoding is be performed for sending message to AMF. NGAP ASN decoding is performed on receiving messages from AMF. NGAP Encoder and Decoder is accessed by gNB Procedure Management and UE Procedure Management functional blocks. gNB Procedure Management accesses it for non-UE associated procedures between O-CU and AMF. UE Procedure Management accesses it for encoding and decoding of all the UE associated messages exchanged with AMF.

### XnAP Encoder and Decoder

XnAP Encoder and Decoder encodes and decodes all XnAP ASN message as described in 3GPP TS 38.423 [13]. XnAP ASN encoding is performed for sending message to peer O-CU. XnAP ASN decoding is performed on receiving messages from peer O-CU. XnAP Encoder and Decoder is accessed by gNB Procedure Management and UE Procedure Management functional blocks. gNB Procedure Management accesses to perform non-UE associated procedures with peer O-CU. UE Procedure Management accesses it for encoding and decoding of all the UE associated messages exchanged with peer O-CU.

### F1AP Encoder and Decoder

F1AP Encoder and Decoder encodes and decodes all F1AP ASN content at O-CU as described in 3GPP TS 38.473 [18]. F1AP ASN encoding is performed for sending message to O-DU. F1AP ASN decoding is performed on receiving messages from O-DU. F1AP Encoder and Decoder is accessed by gNB Procedure Management and UE Procedure Management functional blocks. gNB Procedure Management accesses it to perform non-UE associated procedures with O-DU. UE Procedure Management accesses it for encoding and decoding of all the UE associated messages exchanged with O-DU.

### O-CU-UP Control

O-CU-UP Control function configures and controls the CU User Plane entities as per the E1 interface defined by 3GPP. This function is invoked primarily by the UE Procedure Management functionality though the non-UE associated procedures would be invoked by the gNB and Cell Procedure Management functionality.

### Mobility

### Inter-O-CU Handover

Handover between O-CUs is described in the call flow below.

- The source gNB RRC decides for handover.
- Source gNB RRC requests PDCP to provide HO preparation info by sending message HO Preparation Info Request. In this message, RRC provides target Cell Id and may provide list of cells under control of target gNB, required for potential re-establishment by the UE in these cells to succeed.
- PDCP sends HO Preparation Info Response to RRC containing list of ShortMAC-I prepared for the cell list received in HO Preparation Info Request. PDCP may also report ue-InactiveTime.
- RRC sends UE Context Modification Request to GNB CU F1AP to query gNB DU configuration.
- GNB CU F1AP sends UE Context Modification Request to DU to query gNB DU configuration by setting GNB-DU Configuration Query to TRUE.
- gNB DU provides CellGroupConfig in DU to CU RRC Information IE in UE Context Modification Response to gNB CU F1AP.
- gNB CU F1AP provides the information received from DU to RRC in UE Context Modification Response.
Note: If RRC maintains the DU CellGroupConfig then steps 4 to 7 are not required.

- Starts TNGRELOCprep timer.
- Source gNB RRC sends Handover Required message to the AMF.
- Target gNB RRC receives Handover Request from AMF.
- RRC performs UE admission control and allocates resources for the UE.
- RRC creates UE entity at PDCP by sending message PDCP Entity Establishment Request.
- After creating UE entity, PDCP sends response message PDCP Entity Establishment Response to RRC.
- RRC creates UE entity at F1U by sending message F1U Entity Establishment Request.
- After creating UE entity, F1U sends response message F1U Entity Establishment Response to RRC. This message includes UL tunnel information for each DRB to be shared with DU to receive uplink data from DU.
- RRC sends UE Context Setup Request message to F1AP to create UE entity at DU.
- F1AP sends UE Context Setup Request message to DU to create UE entity at DU.
- After creating UE entity at DU, sends UE Context Setup Response message to F1AP. This message includes DL tunnel information for each DRB to be shared with gNB CU F1U to receive downlink data from CU.
- F1AP sends UE Context Setup Response message to RRC.
- RRC reconfigures UE entity at F1U by sending message F1U Entity Reconfigure Request. In this, RRC provides the DL tunnel information received from DU.
- After reconfiguring UE entity, F1U sends response message F1U Entity Reconfigure Response to RRC.
- RRC creates UE entity at NGU by sending message NGU Entity Establishment Request. RRC will also provide forwarding tunnels configuration to NGU, if required.
- After creating UE entity, NGU sends response message NGU Entity Establishment Response to RRC.
- After preparing the target gNB for UE, RRC sends Handover Request Acknowledge message to AMF. This message also contains HandoverCommand IE for UE.
- Source gNB RRC receives Handover Command message from target gNB.
- Source gNB RRC stops TNGRELOCprep timer and start TNGRELOCOverall timer.
- RRC sends PDCP Entity Suspend Request to suspend data in downlink for the UE.
- After suspending the data, PDCP sends PDCP Entity Suspend Response to RRC.
- RRC reconfigures NGU with message NGU Entity Reconfiguration Request to configure forwarding tunnels for DRBs for which target gNB has provided DL Forwarding UP TNL Information or UL Forwarding UP TNL Information or both.
- NGU sends NGU Entity Reconfiguration Response after configuring the forwarding tunnels. After this, source gNB will start forwarding data to target gNB.
Note: If target gNB does not provide DL Forwarding UP TNL Information or UL Forwarding UP TNL Information, data forwarding will not be configured. In that case, step 29 and step 30 is not be performed.

- RRC sends UE Context Modification Request to GNB CU F1AP to stop DL data transmission.
- gNB CU F1AP sends UE Context Modification Request to DU which includes RRCReconfiguration message and indicates to stop the data transmission for the UE.
- DU may indicate RRCReconfiguration message delivery to UE status to gNB CU F1AP.
- DU responds with UE Context Modification Response to gNB CU F1AP.
- gNB CU F1AP responds with UE Context Modification Response to RRC.
- RRC requests PDCP to provide uplink PDCP-SN and HFN receiver status and the downlink PDCP SN and HFN transmitter status of RLC AM DRBs for which PDCP status preservation applies in message RAN Status Transfer Request so that same can be provided to target gNB.
- PDCP reports uplink PDCP-SN and HFN receiver status and the downlink PDCP SN and HFN transmitter status of RLC AM DRBs in RAN Status Transfer Request message.
- RRC provides uplink PDCP-SN and HFN receiver status and the downlink PDCP SN and HFN transmitter status of RLC AM DRBs to target gNB in Uplink RAN Status Transfer message. After sending this, source gNB RRC waits for UE Context Release Command message from AMF.
- Target gNB receives source gNB Downlink RAN Status Transfer for RLC AM DRBs on which PDCP status preservation applies.
- RRC sends RAN Status Transfer Indication to PDCP to provide uplink PDCP-SN and HFN receiver status and the downlink PDCP SN and HFN transmitter status of RLC AM DRBs received from source gNB via AMF.
Note: If RLC AM DRB is not configured, steps 36 to 40 is not be performed. In that case, source gNB RRC can receive UE Context Release Command from AMF any time after performing step 32.

- After handover execution at source gNB, UE sends RRCReconfigurationComplete to target gNB DU which target gNB DU sends to target gNB CU F1AP in UL RRC Message Transfer message.
- gNB CU F1AP sends the received RRCReconfigurationComplete message to PDCP in UL RRC Message Transfer message for decryption and deciphering.
- PDPC decrypt and decipher RRCReconfigurationComplete and sends it to RRC as payload in SRB Data Request message.
- On receiving RRCReconfigurationComplete, RRC sends Data Buffer Stop Indication to PDCP so that PDCP can process the buffered data and resume the data at target gNB.
- Target gNB RRC sends Handover Notify to AMF to indicate successful completion of handover procedure at target gNB.
- After successful handover of UE at target gNB, AMF sends UE Context Release Command to source gNB which is handled by source gNB RRC.
- Source gNB initiates local UE release procedure.
- After completion of UE release, source gNB RRC sends UE Context Release Complete message to AMF.

### Inter-O-DU Handover within an O-CU

This procedure is defined for the use case when UE moves from one gNB-DU to another gNB-DU within the same gNB-CU during NR operation.

This message descriptions are captured high level with the intend to specify the inter-layer messages interaction on top of 3gpp messages. FAPI messages are not detailed here (Reference for FAPI specification [29], [30]).

Assumption: UE is RRC connected with gNB and PDU data session is active.

- The UE sends Measurement Report message to the source gNB-DU. gNB-DU receives the UL Information Transfer message and it send the PUSCH message to the MAC/RLC layer.
- The UL RRC message transfer message is sent by RLC to F1AP over RLC-F1AP interface, later O-DU/F1AP layer sends the UL RRC Message Transfer to F1AP layer at O-CU to convey the UE Measurement Report message.
- F1AP later at O-CU sends the UL RRC Message Transfer message to RRC layer via PDCP interface.
- The gNB-CU makes an handover decision to the another cell belonging to the target gNB-DU.
- Optionally the gNB-CU may send an UE CONTEXT MODIFICATION REQUEST message to the source gNB-DU to query the latest configuration. Optionally the source gNB-DU sends the UE Reconfiguration Request to MAC/RLC layer and get the UE Reconfiguration Response from the respective protocol layers in case gNB-DU application does not store the latest configuration.
- The source gNB-DU responds with an UE CONTEXT MODIFICATION RESPONSE message that includes latest full configuration information.
- The gNB-CU sends an UE CONTEXT SETUP REQUEST message to the target gNB-DU to create an UE context and setup one or more data bearers. The UE CONTEXT SETUP REQUEST message includes HandoverPreparationInformation. The target gNB-DU sends the UE Create Request to the MAC and RLC layer to create the UE context with radio resources and receives UE Create Response from the respective protocol layers.
- The target gNB-DU responds with an UE CONTEXT SETUP RESPONSE message if the target gNB-DU can admit resources for the handover.
- The gNB-CU sends an UE CONTEXT MODIFICATION REQUEST message to the source gNB-DU, which includes RRCReconfiguration message towards the UE. The gNB-CU also indicates the source gNB-DU to stop the data transmission for the UE.
- The source gNB-DU sends the UE Reconfiguration Request to MAC/Scheduler and RLC layer and get the UE Reconfiguration Response from the respective protocol layers.
- The source gNB-DU optionally sends a Downlink Data Delivery Status frame to inform the gNB-CU about the downlink data PDUs that could not be successfully transmitted to the UE.
- The source gNB-DU forwards the received RRCReconfiguration message to the UE.
- The source gNB-DU responds to the gNB-CU with UE CONTEXT MODIFICATION RESPONSE message.
- UE triggers Random Access procedure at the target gNB-DU.
- Optionally the target gNB-DU sends Downlink Data Delivery Status frame to the gNB-CU.
- The gNB-CU sends the target gNB-DU with the PDCP PDUs that are not successfully transmitted in the source gNB-DU.
- The UE responds to the target gNB-DU with an RRCReconfigurationComplete message.
- The target gNB-DU sends UL RRC MESSAGE TRANSFER message to the gNB-CU to convey the received RRCReconfigurationComplete message.
- The downlink and uplink data packets are sent to/from the UE through the target gNB-DU.
- The gNB-CU sends an UE CONTEXT RELEASE COMMAND message to the source gNB-DU.
- The source gNB-DU sends UE DELETE REQUEST to MAC/RLC layer to release the UE context in the respective protocol layer and receives UE DELETE RESPONSE message.
- The source gNB-DU responds the gNB-CU with an UE CONTEXT RELEASE COMPLETE message.

### O-CU-UP Functional Blocks

O-CU-UP handles the user plane functionality at O-CU.

### O-CU-UP-OAM-Agent and data models

O-CU-UP-OAM-Agent manages following services of O-CU-UP:

- Configuration and Control Management
- Performance Counter Management
- Fault Management
O-CU-UP-OAM receives the configuration for O-CU-UP and configures all the modules of O-CU-UP. It may perform operations like spawning of O-CU-UP modules and software downloading for O-CU-UP.

O-CU-UP-OAM collects the performance counters of O-CU-UP and reports it to performance management entity present in the network.

O-CU-UP-OAM manages the faults and alarms raised at O-CU-UP and reports it to fault management entity present in the network.

For O-CU data models, please refer to O-RAN WG5 data models [33].

### eGTPu

Figure 10-5 shows the detailed view of eGTPu functional block.

eGTPu encaps and decaps: It handles the eGTPu protocol stack. It performs eGTPu encapsulation and decapsulation as described in 3GPP TS 29.281 [2] and TS 38.425 [15].

Data Application: This function receives the data packet from UPF, peer O-CU and O-DU over eGTPu interface. It calls eGTPu encaps and decaps to remove the eGTPu header. It identifies the corresponding UE and DRB Id based on mapping of TEID and IP address maintained at eGTPu. It then forwards the data packet to SDAP, which maps the PDU Session to appropriate DRB and passes data to NR PDCP along with information of UE and DRB Id. While sending packet to NR PDCP, it also indicates from which interface this packet has been received, i.e., from UPF or from peer O-CU or from O-DU.

Data Application also processes the data packets received from SDAP. On receiving data packet, it adds the eGTPu header by calling eGTPu encaps and decaps. On the basis of destination, UE and DRB Id received from NR PDCP, packet relay fetches the TEID and IP address from the mapping maintained at eGTPu and sends the data packet to the destination provided by NR PDCP.

NGU: It exchanges ECHO request and response over NGU interface. It takes care of the error handling on NGU interface.

XnU: It exchanges ECHO request and response over XnU interface. It takes care of the error handling on XnU interface. It also takes care of data flow control on XnU interface.

F1U: It exchanges ECHO request and response over F1U interface defined in [19]. It takes care of the error handling on F1U interface. It also takes care of data flow control on F1U interface.

### NR PDCP

NR PDCP transfers user plane and control plane data. It maintains PDCP SNs of 12 bits or 18 bits for DRBs and 12 bits for SRBs. It performs header compression and decompression, integrity protection and verification, ciphering and deciphering, timer based SDU discard, routing for split bearers, duplication, reordering and in-order delivery, out of order delivery, and duplicate discarding as described in 3GPP TS 38.323 [9].

The PDCP layer provides its services to the RRC or SDAP layers. The following services are provided by PDCP to upper layers:

- Transfer of user plane data
- Transfer of control plane data
- Header compression
- Ciphering
- Integrity protection.
A PDCP entity expects the following services from lower layers per RLC entity:

- Acknowledged data transfer service, including indication of successful delivery of PDCP PDUs
- Unacknowledged data transfer service.

### SDAP

It performs QoS flow to DRB mapping and implements the procedure described in 3GPP TS 37.324 [10]. In case of a DRB where SDAP header to/from UE is not configured, SDAP entity may not be present.

The following services are provided by SDAP to upper layers:

- Transfer of user plane data
An SDAP entity expects the following services from lower layers:

- User plane data transfer service
- In-order delivery except when out of order delivery is configured by RRC

# O-DU Interfaces

### L1/L2 Interface

MAC and Scheduler in Layer 2 (L2) and High-PHY (L1) in O-DU use the APIs defined SCF 5G FAPI specifications [29]. In implementations where L2 and L1 of O-DU are on different hosts, a network FAPI (nFAPI) interface is used.

SCF FAPI includes the following interfaces:

- P5: PHY control interface
- P7: Main data path interface
Please refer to SCF specifications for implementation details of FAPI and nFAPI messages. Some of the FAPI messages are illustrated in the call flows for UE registration in Annex A.

### L2 Interfaces

It is expected that the software implementation of the APIs defined in this section will be in conformance with the API message definition and the fields or message elements. Data types and encoding/decoding of the message contents will be implementation dependent. Message elements (IEs) referring to definitions in 3GPP specifications are italicized for ease of reference.

### O-DU-OAM-Agent -MAC Interface

### NR Cell Configuration

The following table details the configurations between O-DU-OAM-Agent and MAC for config parameter exchanges.

| Carrier Configuration | struct | Configuration of each transmission point associated to the corresponding cell(s). This includes different physical antennas, different frequencies, bandwidths. The NR sector-carrier can have downlink, uplink or both as specified by txDirection. It also applies the carrier configurations like numTxAnt , numRxAnt, sdlFrequency, uplinkFrequency, dlBandwidth or uplinkBandwidth. |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Cell Configuration | struct | This contains the configuration parameters relating cell configuration. This also contains the list of slices to be supported in the Tracking area per PLMN. |
| SSB Configuration | struct | This contains the configuration parameters relating SSB/PBCH configuration as defined in 38.331 CSI-MeasConfig. |
| CSI-RS Configuration | struct | This contains the configuration parameters relating CSI-RS configuration. |
| PRACH Configuration | struct | This contains the configuration parameters relating to RACH.s |
| TDD Configuration |  | This contains the TDD pattern specific information along with TDD periodicity. |
| Precoding Configuration | struct | This contains the configuration parameters used for storing a TDD pattern (up to 63 SSB) |
| Beamforming Configuration | struct | This contains beamforming parameters. |

| carrier-bandwidth | uint16_t | Carrier bandwidth for DL in MHz [38.104, sec 5.3.2] Values: 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 40,50, 60, 70, 80,90,100,200,400 Width of this carrier in number of PRBs (using the subcarrierSpacing defined for this carrier) (see TS 38.211 [16], clause 4.4.2) |
| --- | --- | --- |
| arfcnDL | uint32_t | NR Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number (NR-ARFCN) point A in kHz for downlink ([38.104, sec5.4.2 and 38.211 sec 4.4.4.2] Value: 82000 -> 2489166) |
| bSChannelBwUL | uint32_t | Base station channel bandwidth for UL in MHz [38.104, sec 5.3.2] Values: 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 40,50, 60, 70, 80,90,100,200,400 |
| arfcnUL | uint32_t | NR Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number (NR-ARFCN) point A in kHz for uplink ([38.104, sec5.2 and 38.211 sec 4.4.4.2] Value: 82000 -> 2489166) |
| numTxAnt | uint16_t | Number of Tx antennas Value: 0 ->65355 |
| numRxAnt | uint16_t | Number of Rx antennas Value: 0 ->65355 |

| operationalState | uint8_t | Operational state of the cell [Value: ENABLED, DISABLED] It indicates the operational state of the NRCellDU instance. It describes whether the resource is installed and partially or fully operable (Enabled) or the resource is not installed or not operable (Disabled) |
| --- | --- | --- |
| administrativeState | uint8_t | Administrative state of the cell [Value: LOCKED, SHUTTING DOWN, UNLOCKED] It indicates the administrative state of the NRCellDU. It describes the permission to use or prohibition against using the cell, imposed through the OAM services |
| cellState | uint16_t | Usage state of the cell [Value: IDLE, INACTIVE, ACTIVE] It indicates the usage state of the NRCellDU instance. It describes whether the cell is not currently in use (Idle), or currently in use but not configured to carry traffic (Inactive) or is currently in use and is configured to carry traffic (Active) |
| pLMNInfoList | uint64_t | The list of PLMNs that can be served by the cell, and which S-NSSAs can be supported by the NR cell for corresponding PLMN in case of network slicing feature is supported. The pLMNId of the first entry of the list is the PLMNId used to construct the nCGI for the NR cell. |
| >> pLMNId |  | This represent the PLMN Identity. |
| >> sNSSAIList |  | This represent the list of S-NSSAI supported in the PLMN. This is a conditional mandatory parameter if network slicing feature is supported. |
| nRPCI | uint16_t | Physical Cell ID, 𝑁𝐼𝐷 𝑐𝑒𝑙𝑙 [38.211, sec 7.4.2.1] Value: 0 ->1007 It uniquely identifies a NR cell within a PLMN |
| nRTAC | uint64_t / string | This information element is used to identify a configured EPS Tracking Area Code in order to enable application of Roaming and Access Restrictions for EN-DC as specified in TS 37.340 [7]. This IE is configured for the cell, but not broadcast |
| ssbFrequency | uint32_t | Indicates cell defining SSB frequency domain position Frequency of the cell defining SSB transmission.  The frequency provided in this attribute identifies the position of resource element RE=#0 (subcarrier #0) of resource block RB#10 of the SS block. The frequency must be positioned on the NR global frequency raster, as defined in TS 38.101-1 [42] subclause 5.4.2. and within bSChannelBwDL. Values: 0->3279165 |
| Subcarrier-spacing | uint16_t | This is used for SSB synchronization. See subclause 5 in TS 38.104 [12]. Its units are in kHz. Values: {15, 30, 120, 240}. Note that the allowed values of SSB used for representing data, by e.g. a BWP, are: 15, 30, 60 and 120 in units of kHz. Subcarrier spacing of this carrier. It is used to convert the offsetToCarrier into an actual frequency. Only the values 15 kHz, 30 kHz or 60 kHz (FR1), and 60 kHz or 120 kHz (FR2) are applicable |
| DuplexType | uint8_t | Frame duplex type  Value:0 = FDD  1 = TDD |
| Sib1CfgAndInfo |  |  |
| >  PdcchCfgSib1         {CoresetZeroIndex,          SearchSpaceZroIndex} |  |  |
| > *sib1Pdu | uint8*t |  |
| > Sib1PduLen | uint16_t |  |
| > pagingCfg       { numPO/ Ns,         poPresent,         pagingOcc[MAX_PO_PER_PF = 4] |  |  |
| Initial  DL BWP | struct | Spec 38.331  DownlinkConfigCommonSIB |
| Initial  UL Bwp | struct | Spec 38.331 UplinkConfigCommonSIB |

| ssPbchPower | uint32_t | SSB Block Power Value: s (-60...50 dBm) |
| --- | --- | --- |
| subcarrier-spacing | uint8_t | subcarrierSpacing for common, used for initial access and broadcast message. [38.211 sec 4.2] Value:0->3 Subcarrier spacing of this carrier. It is used to convert the offsetToCarrier into an actual frequency. Only the values 15 kHz, 30 kHz or 60 kHz (FR1), and 60 kHz or 120 kHz (FR2) are applicable |
| offset-to-carrier | uint16_t | Offset of lowest subcarrier of lowest resource block used for SS/PBCH block. Given in PRB [38.211, section 4.4.4.2] Value: 0->2199 Offset in frequency domain between Point A (lowest subcarrier of common RB 0) and the lowest usable subcarrier on this carrier in number of PRBs (using the subcarrierSpacing defined for this carrier). The maximum value corresponds to 275*8-1. See TS 38.211 [16], clause 4.4.2 |
| SsbPeriod | uint8_t | SSB periodicity in msec Value: 0: ms5 1: ms10 2: ms20 3: ms40 4: ms80 5: ms160 |
| SsbSubcarrierOffset | uint8_t | ssbSubcarrierOffset or 𝑘𝑆𝑆𝐵 (38.211, section 7.4.3.1) Value: 0->31 |
| SsbMask[SSB_MAX_SIZE] | uint32_t[2] | Bitmap for actually transmitted SSB. As per Spec SCF222, Table 3–46  ‘SSB_resource Configuration’, This is the array of size SSB_MAX_SIZE=2 MSB->LSB of first 32 bit number corresponds to SSB 0 to SSB 31  MSB->LSB of second 32 bit number corresponds to SSB 32 to SSB 63  Value for each bit:  • 0: not transmitted  • 1: transmitted |
| BeamId [64] | uint8_t | BeamID for each SSB in SsbMask. For example, if SSB mask bit 26 is set to 1, then BeamId [26] will be used to indicate beam ID of SSB 26. Value: from 0 to 63 |
| betaPss | uint8_t | PSS EPRE to SSS EPRE in a SS/PBCH block [38.213, sec 4.1] Values: 0 = 0dB 1 = 3dB |
| bchPayloadFlag | uint8_t | bchPayload to determine how it its generated, req by FAPI 0: MAC generates the full PBCH payload 1: PHY generates the timing PBCH bits 2: PHY generates the full PBCH payload |
| bchPayload | uint8_t |  |
| dmrsTypeAPos | uint8_t | The position of the first DM-RS for downlink and uplink. Value: 0 -> 1 |

| prachSequenceLength | uint8_t | RACH sequence length. Long or Short sequence length. Only short sequence length is supported for FR2. [38.211, sec 6.3.3.1]  Value: 0 = Long sequence 1 = Short sequence |
| --- | --- | --- |
| prachSubCSpacing | uint8_t | Subcarrier spacing of PRACH. [38.211 sec 4.2Tables 6.3.3.1-2 and 6.3.3.1-7]  Value:0->34 |
| numPrachFdOccasions | uint8_t | Number of RACH frequency domain occasions. Corresponds to the parameter 𝑀 in [38.211, sec 6.3.3.2] which equals the higher layer parameter msg1FDM  Value: 1,2,4,8 |
| prachConfigIndex[] | uint8_t | PRACH configuration index.  Following parameters will be having unique values for each instances of PRACH Frequency occasion. The array size will be ‘numPrachFdOccasions’ MAX size of array is 8. Value: from 0 to 255 |
| >prachRootSequenceIndex | uint16_t | Starting logical root sequence index, 𝑖, equivalent to higher layer parameter prach-RootSequenceIndex [38.211, sec 6.3.3.1]  Value: 0 -> 837 |
| >numRootSequences | uint8_t | Number of root sequences for a particular FD occasion that are required to generate the necessary number of preambles |
| >k1 | uint16_t | Frequency offset (from UL bandwidth part) for each FD. [38.211, sec 6.3.3.2]  Value: from 0 to 272 |
| >prachZeroCorrConf | uint8_t | PRACH Zero CorrelationZone Config which is used to derive 𝑁𝑐𝑠 [38.211, sec 6.3.3.1]  Value: from 0 to 15 |
| restrictedSetConfig | uint8_t | PRACH restricted set config  Value:  0: unrestricted  1: restricted set type A  2: restricted set type B |
| ssbPerRach | uint8_t | SSB-per-RACH-occasion Value: 0: 1/8  1:1/4,  2:1/2  3:1  4:2  5:4,  6:8  7:16 |
| numCbPreamblePerSsb | uint8_t | Number of CBRA  preamble per SSB |
| raRspWReqindow | uint8_t | RA response window Msg2 (RAR) window length in number of slots. |
| Msg1FreqStart | uint8_t | Offset of lowest PRACH transmission occasion in frequency domain with respective to PRB 0. The value is configured so that the corresponding RACH resource is entirely within the bandwidth of the UL BWP. (see TS 38.211 [16], clause 6.3.3.2). |
| totalNumRaPreamble | uint8_t | Total number of preambles used for contention based and contention free 4-step or 2-step random access in the RACH resources |

| dl-ul-transmission-periodicity | uint8_t /enumeration | "Periodicity of the DL-UL pattern, see TS 38.213 [13], clause 11.1. If the dl-UL-TransmissionPeriodicity-v1530 is signalled, UE ignores the dl-UL-TransmissionPeriodicity (without suffix).”.  DL UL Transmission Periodicity Value: 0: ms0p5  1: ms0p625  2: ms1  3: ms1p25  4: ms2  5: ms2p5  6: ms5  s7: ms10 |
| --- | --- | --- |
| nr-of-downlink-slots | uint16_t | Number of consecutive full DL slots at the beginning of each DL-UL pattern, see TS 38.213 [13], clause 11.1. In this release, the maximum value for this field is 80. |
| nr-of-downlink-symbols | uint8_t | Number of consecutive DL symbols in the beginning of the slot following the last full DL slot (as derived from nrofDownlinkSlots). The value 0 indicates that there is no partial-downlink slot. (see TS 38.213 [13], clause 11.1) |
| nr-of-uplink-slots | uint16_t | Number of consecutive full UL slots at the end of each DL-UL pattern, see TS 38.213 [13], clause 11.1. In this release, the maximum value for this field is 80 |
| nr-of-uplink-symbols | uint8_t | Number of consecutive UL symbols in the end of the slot preceding the first full UL slot (as derived from nrofUplinkSlots). The value 0 indicates that there is no partial-uplink slot. (see TS 38.213 [13], clause 11.1) |
| SlotConfig | uint8_t | For each symbol in each slot within max TDD periodicity a uint8_t value is provided indicating: 0: DL slot  1: UL slot  2: Guard slot |

| numLayers | uint16_t | Number of ports at the precoder input  Value: 0->8 |
| --- | --- | --- |
| numAntPorts | uint16_t | Number of ports at the precoder output  sValue: 0->64 |

| numofBeams | uint16_t | Number of beams  Value: 0->64 |
| --- | --- | --- |
| numTXRUs | uint16_t | Number of ports Value: 0->64 |
| beamIndex | uint16_t | For each beam Identifying number for the beam index  Value: 0->64 |
| beamType | uint16_t | For each beam The type of the beam.  Values: "SSB-BEAM" |
| beamAzimuth | uint32_t | For each beam  sThe azimuth of a beam transmission, which means the horizontal beamforming pointing angle (beam peak direction) in the (Phi) φ-axis in 1/10th degree resolution.  See subclauses 3.2 in TS 38.104 [12] and 7.3 in TS 38.901 [53] as well as TS 28.662 [11]. The pointing angle is the direction equal to the geometric center of the half-power contour of the beam relative to the reference plane. Zero degree implies explicit antenna bearing (boresight). Positive angle implies clockwise from the antenna bearing.   Values: [-1800 ...1800] 0.1 degree |
| beamTilt | uint32_t | For each beam  The tilt of a beam transmission, which means the vertical beamforming pointing angle (beam peak direction) in the (Theta) θ-axis in 1/10th degree resolution.  See subclauses 3.2 in TS 38.104 [12] and 7.3 in TS 38.901 [53] as well as TS 28.662 [11]. The pointing angle is the direction equal to the geometric center of the half-power contour of the beam relative to the reference plane. Positive value implies downtilt.  Values: [-900...900] 0.1 degree |
| beamHorizWidth | uint32_t | For each beam The Horizontal beamWidth of a beam transmission, which means the horizontal beamforming half-power (3dB down) beamwidth in the (Phi) φ-axis in 1/10th degree resolution.  See subclauses 3.2 in TS 38.104 [12] and 7.3 in TS 38.901 [53].    Values: [0...3599] 0.1 degree |
| beamVertWidth | uint32_t | For each beam The Vertical beamWidth of a beam transmission, which means the vertical beamforming half-power (3dB down) beamwidth in the (Theta) θ-axis in 1/10th degree resolution.  See subclauses 3.2 in TS 38.104 [12] and 7.3 in TS 38.901 [53].    Values: [0...1800] 0.1 degree |
| coverageShape | uint32_t | Identifies the sector carrier coverage shape described by the envelope of the contained SSB beams. The coverage shape is implementation dependent. Values: 0: 65535 |
| digitalTilt | uint32_t | Digitally controlled tilt through beamforming. It represents the vertical pointing direction of the antenna relative to the antenna bore sight, representing the total non-mechanical vertical tilt of the selected coverageShape. Positive value gives downwards tilt and negative value gives upwards tilt.  Values: [-900...900] 0.1 degree |
| digitalAzimuth | uint32_t | Digitally controlled azimuth through beamforming. It represents the horizontal pointing direction of the antenna relative to the antenna bore sight, representing the total non-mechanical horizontal pan of the selected coverageShape. Positive value gives azimuth to the right and negative value gives an azimuth to the left.  allowed Values: [-1800 ...1800] 0.1 degree |

In case of hierarchical architecture, O-DU receives the aggregated RU configuration, disaggregate the RU configuration per each RU instance and send the specific configurations towards O-RU. The below table captures the beam forming configuration towards O-RU applicable for hierarchical approach.

Beamforming configuration as per O-RAN Fronthaul M-plane specification [21]

| per-band-config |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| > band-number | uint16 | Band number supported at O-RU |
| > tx-array | uint16 | Tx path |
| > rx-array | uint16 | Rx path |
| > static-properties |  |  |
| >> rt-bf-weights-update-support | boolean | Real time beam forming weight update if supported at O-RU in case of digital beamforming. |
| >> beamforming-type |  |  |
| >>> frequency |  | if the beam forming type is frequency domain |
| >>>> frequency-domain-beams |  |  |
| >>>> max-number-of-beam-ids | uint16 | Maximum number of beams supported in frequency domain |
| >>>> initial-beam-id | uint16 | Beam index |
| >>>> iq-bitwidth | uint8 |  |
| >>>> compression-type | enumeration |  |
| >>>> bitwidth | uint8 |  |
| >>>> compression-format |  |  |
| >>>> additional-compression-method-supported |  |  |
| >>> time |  |  |
| >>>> time-domain-beams |  | if the beam forming type is time domain |
| >>>> max-number-of-beam-ids | uint16 | Maximum number of beams supported in time domain |
| >>>> initial-beam-id | uint16 |  |
| >>>> frequency-granularity | enumeration |  |
| >>>> time-granularity | enumeration |  |
| >>>> iq-bitwidth | uint8 |  |
| >>>> compression-type | enumeration |  |
| >>>> bitwidth | uint8 |  |
| >>>> compression-format |  |  |
| >>>> additional-compression-method-supported |  |  |
| >>> hybrid |  | Hybrid architecture is preferred for frequencies > 6GHz |
| >>>> hybrid-beams |  | if the beam forming type is hybrid domain |
| >>>> max-number-of-beam-ids | uint16 | Maximum number of beams supported in hybrid domain |
| >>>> initial-beam-id | uint16 |  |
| >>>> frequency-granularity | enumeration |  |
| >>>> time-granularity | enumeration |  |
| >>>> iq-bitwidth | uint8 |  |
| >>>> compression-type | enumeration |  |
| >>>> bitwidth | uint8 |  |
| >>>> compression-format |  |  |
| >> number-of-beams | uint16 | Number of beams supported in the O-RU |
| > beam-information |  |  |
| >> number-of-beamforming-properties | uint16 | Beam forming properties for each beam |
| >> beamforming-properties |  |  |
| >>> beam-id | uint16 |  |
| >>> beamforming-property |  |  |
| >>>> beam-type | enumeration |  |
| >>>> beam-group-id | uint16 |  |
| >>>> coarse-fine-beam-relation |  |  |
| >>>> neighbor-beams |  |  |
| >>>> coarse-fine-beam-capability-based-relation |  |  |
| >>>> neighbor-beams-capability-based |  |  |
| capabilities-group | uint16 |  |
| > band-number | uint16 |  |
| > tx-array | uint16 |  |
| > rx-array | uint16 |  |
| > static-properties |  |  |
| >> rt-bf-weights-update-support | boolean |  |
| >> beamforming-type |  |  |
| >>> frequency |  |  |
| >>>> frequency-domain-beams |  |  |
| >>>> max-number-of-beam-ids | uint16 |  |
| >>>> initial-beam-id | uint16 |  |
| >>>> iq-bitwidth | uint8 |  |
| >>>> compression-type | enumeration |  |
| >>>> bitwidth | uint8 |  |
| >>>> compression-format |  |  |
| >>>> additional-compression-method-supported |  |  |
| >>> time |  |  |
| >>>> time-domain-beams |  |  |
| >>>> max-number-of-beam-ids | uint16 |  |
| >>>> initial-beam-id | uint16 |  |
| >>>> frequency-granularity | enumeration |  |
| >>>> time-granularity | enumeration |  |
| >>>> iq-bitwidth | uint8 |  |
| >>>> compression-type | enumeration |  |
| >>>> bitwidth | uint8 |  |
| >>>> compression-format |  |  |
| >>>> additional-compression-method-supported* |  |  |
| >>> hybrid |  |  |
| >>>> hybrid-beams |  |  |
| >>>> max-number-of-beam-ids | uint16 |  |
| >>>> initial-beam-id | uint16 |  |
| >>>> frequency-granularity | enumeration |  |
| >>>> time-granularity | enumeration |  |
| >>>> iq-bitwidth | uint8 |  |
| >>>> compression-type | enumeration |  |
| >>>> bitwidth | uint8 |  |
| >>>> compression-format |  |  |
| >>>> additional-compression-method-supported |  |  |
| >> number-of-beams | uint16 |  |
| > beam-information |  |  |
| >> number-of-beamforming-properties | uint16 |  |
| >> beamforming-properties |  |  |
| >>> beam-id |  |  |
| >>> beamforming-property |  |  |
| >>>> beam-type | enumeration |  |
| >>>> beam-group-id | uint16 |  |
| >>>> coarse-fine-beam-relation |  |  |
| >>>> neighbor-beams |  |  |
| > ue-specific-beamforming |  |  |
| >> max-number-of-ues | uint8 |  |
| > operational-properties |  |  |
| >> number-of-writeable-beamforming-files | uint8 |  |
| >> update-bf-non-delete | boolean |  |
| >> persistent-bf-files | boolean |  |
| > beamforming-trough-attributes-supported | boolean |  |
| > beamforming-trough-ue-channel-info-supported | boolean |  |
| > beam-tilt |  |  |
| >> predefined-beam-tilt-offset-information |  |  |
| >>> band-number |  |  |
| >>> elevation-tilt-granularity | uint8 |  |
| >>> azimuth-tilt-granularity | uint8 |  |
| >>> minimum-supported-elevation-tilt | int16 |  |
| >>> maximum-supported-elevation-tilt | int16 |  |
| >>> minimum-supported-azimuth-tilt | int16 |  |
| >>> maximum-supported-azimuth-tilt | int16 |  |
| >>> run-time-tilt-offset-supported | boolean |  |
| >> predefined-beam-tilt-state |  |  |
| >>> band-number | int16 |  |
| >>> offset-elevation-tilt-angle | int16 |  |
| >>> offset-azimuth-tilt-angle | int16 |  |

| > activate-beamforming-config | rpcs | Modify beam forming configuration if supported at O-RU |
| --- | --- | --- |
| > beamforming-information-update | notifications | Notify beam forming information update |

| csirsfrequencyDomainAllocation | BIT STRING | CHOICE {       row1     BIT STRING (SIZE (4)),       row2     BIT STRING (SIZE (12)),       row4     BIT STRING (SIZE (3)),       other    BIT STRING (SIZE (6))    }, |
| --- | --- | --- |
| csirsnrofPorts | uint8_t | ENUMERATED {p1,p2,p4,p8,p12,p16,p24,p32}, |
| csirsfirstOFDMSymbolInTimeDomain | uint8_t | INTEGER (0..13), |
| csirsfirstOFDMSymbolInTimeDomain2 | uint8_t | INTEGER (2..12) |
| csirscdm-Type | uint8_t | ENUMERATED {noCDM, fd-CDM2, cdm4-FD2-TD2, cdm8-FD2-TD4} |
| Csirsdensity | uint8_t | CHOICE {      dot5      ENUMERATED {evenPRBs, oddPRBs},      one       NULL,      three     NULL,      spare     NULL    }, |
| csirsdensitydot5 | uint8_t | ENUMERATED {evenPRBs, oddPRBs}, |
| powerControlOffset | uint8_t | INTEGER (-8..15) |
| powerControlOffsetSS | uint8_t | ENUMERATED{db-3, db0, db3, db6} |
| periodicityAndOffset | uint16_t | slots4 INTEGER (0..3), slots5 INTEGER (0..4), slots8 INTEGER (0..7), slots10 INTEGER (0..9), slots16 INTEGER (0..15), slots20 INTEGER (0..19), slots32 INTEGER (0..31), slots40 INTEGER (0..39), slots64 INTEGER (0..63), slots80 INTEGER (0..79), slots160 INTEGER (0..159), slots320 INTEGER (0..319), slots640 INTEGER (0..639) |

| nrofSymbols | uint8_t | ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4}, |
| --- | --- | --- |
| resourceType | uint8_t | CHOICE {aperiodic, semi-persistent, periodic} |
| transmissionComb | uint8_t | CHOICE { n2, n4 } |
| p0 | int32_t | INTEGER (-202..24) |

### Slice Configuration

| RRMPolicyList |  | List of RRM policy in case of multiple dedicated slices |
| --- | --- | --- |
| > resourceType | uint16_t | This defines type of resource (PRB, RRC connected users, DRB usage) that is subject to policy. Valid values are 'PRB', 'RRC' or 'DRB' |
| > rRMPolicyMemberList |  | It represents the list of RRMPolicyMember(s) that include the PLMNId and S-NSSAI |
| >> RRMPolicyMember |  |  |
| >>> pLMNId | uint16_t | It defines the PLMN identifier. |
| >>> sNSSAI | uint32_t | This constitute of SST and SD value. |
| > RRMPolicyRatio |  |  |
| >> rRMPolicyMaxRatio | uint8_t | This attribute specifies the maximum percentage of radio resource that can be used by the associated rRMPolicyMemberList/SNSSAI. The maximum percentage of radio resource include at least one of the shared resources, prioritized resources and dedicated resources. The sum of the rRMPolicyMaxRatio values assigned to all slices can be greater than 100. |
| >> rRMPolicyMinRatio | uint8_t | This attribute specifies the minimum percentage of radio resources that can be used by the associated rRMPolicyMemberList/sNSSAI. The minimum percentage of radio resources including at least one of prioritized resources and dedicated resources. The sum of the rRMPolicyMinRatio values assigned to all slices be less than or equal to100. |
| >> rRMPolicyDedicatedRatio | uint8_t | This attribute specifies the percentage of radio resource that dedicatedly used by the associated rRMPolicyMemberList/sNSSAI. The sum of the rRMPolicyDeidctaedRatio values assigned to all slices be less than or equal to100. |

### MAC - O-DU-OAM-Agent Interface

The following table details the performance statistics for various features to be reported from MAC layer towards the O-DU OAM agent. The cell specific measurements or the distribution of UE statistics received by the gNB from UEs in that cell (Reference [21] and reference [26] ) are reported in these interface functions.

The below MU-MIMO feature related statistics helps to fix and improve the MU-MIMO algorithms in the Non RT-RIC/rAPPs which is AI/ML driven and optimize the specific MU-MIMO configuration towards the gNB system.

| Direction | Message/API | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| MAC to O-DU-OAM-Agent | RSRP/RSRQ/SINR measurements | API to transfer the performance metric for the SS-RSRP distribution per SSB, SS-RSRQ distribution per SSB and SS-SINR distribution per SSB in the cell for the GoB use case. |
| MAC to O-DU-OAM-Agent | Measurement for the SSB beam switch | API to transfer the performance metrics for Beam switching and beam switching interval per cell for the GoB use case. |
| MAC to O-DU-OAM-Agent | Beam Failure statistics per cell per beam | API to transfer the performance metrics for beam failure statistics per cell per beam for the GoB use case. |
| MAC to O-DU-OAM-Agent | UL SRS RSRP measurement | API to transfer the performance metrics for SRS RSRP in the UL for non GoB use case. |

### RLC-MAC Interface

The following table details the interactions between RLC and MAC for data transfer and reporting operations.

| Direction | Message/API | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| RLC to MAC | Data transfer (DL) | API to transfer downlink data |
| MAC to RLC | Data transfer (UL) | API to transfer uplink data |
| MAC to RLC | Schedule result reporting (DL) | DL schedule result Reporting to RLC |
| RLC to MAC | Buffer status reporting (DL) | DL data volume in the RLC entity |

Note:

DL:

- RLC -> MAC: The Buffer status in RLC
- MAC -> RLC: the schedule result Reporting to RLC, then RLC decide how to implement the RLC segment.
- RLC->MAC: DL data
UL:

- MAC-> RLC: UL data

### Data Transfer (DL)

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Frame Number | M | Air interface time |
| Slot Number | M | Air interface time |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell |
| UE Index | M | Identification of the UE |
| Number of RLC PDUs | M | Number of RLC PDUs to be sent |
| RLC PDU info (RB Type, LCID, PDU LEN, RLC PDU) | M | Radio Bearer type, LCID and length for the RLC PDU, RLC PDU data |
| numLC | M |  |
| Buffer Occupancy[numLC] | M | This is the buffer occupancy information for the logical channel that needs to be informed to scheduler. |

### Data Transfer (UL)

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Frame Number | M | Air interface time |
| Slot Number | M | Air interface time |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell |
| UE Index | M | Identification of the UE |
| Number of RLC PDUs | M | Number of RLC PDUs receive from MAC |
| RLC PDU info (RB Type, RB id, PDU LEN, RLC PDU) | M | Radio Bearer type, Radio Bearer ID, LCID and length for the RLC PDU, RLC PDU data |

### Schedule Result Reporting (DL)

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Frame Number | M | Air interface time |
| Slot Number | M | Air interface time |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell |
| UE Index | M | Identification of the UE |
| Number of RB | M | Number of RBs to send |
| RLC PDU info (RB id, overall length for each RB) | M | RB id and length overall length for each RB |

### Buffer Status Report (DL)

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell |
| UE Index | M | Identification of the UE |
| Number of RLC PDU | M | Number of RLC PDU in RLC buffer |
| RLC PDU info (RB id, PDU LEN) | M | LCID and length for each RLC PDU. |

### MAC – Scheduler Interface

5G NR MAC and scheduler modules interact via well-defined APIs. The APIs ensure any scheduler implementation interworks with MAC. This ensures the freedom of choice for OEMs and operators to plug in a scheduler implementation of choice from a third-party vendor in O-DU.

The functionalities of  the scheduler module are restricted to optimal allocation of radio resources at every TTI while catering to the need of gNB for transmission of:

- UE specific UL/DL data and signalling messages and
- broadcast messages
To achieve the above objective, the APIs defined below abstract the scheduler of any protocol specific operations like handling payloads. The interfaces shown below and the APIs may evolve/change further in future releases of this document to achieve a more optimized scheduler implementation.

The MAC-Scheduler interface includes the slice related information (sNSSAI) associated with the logical channel, that helps the scheduler in multiplexing of MAC SDUs from one or different logical channel onto transport blocks (TB) to be delivered to the physical layer on transport channels. The slice id/sNSSAI associated with the logical channel and its slice priority (defined by the operator) derives a slice metric in the PF scheduler to do logical channel prioritization and radio resource selection so as to meet the slice SLA.

The following tables detail the interactions between MAC and scheduler both for configuration and data transfer operations.

| Direction | Message/API | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| MAC to SCH | Cell configuration Request | MAC provides SCH the cell configuration |
| MAC to SCH | Cell Delete Request | MAC initiates deletion of a cell at SCH |
| MAC to SCH | Add UE configuration Request | MAC provides SCH the configuration/capabilities of a UE |
| MAC to SCH | Modify UE configuration Request | MAC provides SCH the re-configuration of UE, also used to add/release/modify existing bearers |
| MAC to SCH | Delete UE Request | MAC initiates deletion of a UE at SCH |
| MAC to SCH | DL HARQ Indication | Contains the list of UEs for which DL HARQ ACK / NACK received from UE in a given TTI. Note: It is the responsibility of the SCH to associate the DL HARQ ACK/NACKs received in a TTI to the corresponding HARQ process Ids. |
| MAC to SCH | UL HARQ Indication | Contains the list of UEs for which UL Data on PUSCH was received. Per UE, indication of CRC check success or failure is sent by MAC to SCH based on CRC Indication received from L1. Note: It is the responsibility of the SCH to associate the UL HARQ Indication received in a TTI to the corresponding HARQ process Ids. |
| MAC to SCH | Uplink channel quality information | MAC provides SCH channel condition (including RI, PMI, CQI) information for UEs for scheduling UL |
| MAC to SCH | Downlink channel quality information | MAC provides SCH channel condition (including RI, PMI, CQI) information for UEs for scheduling DL |
| MAC to SCH | RACH Indication Contents | MAC receives the RACH Indication and shares the contents with SCH |
| MAC to SCH | Paging Indication Contents | MAC indicates Paging message (F1AP Paging) contents to scheduler |
| MAC to SCH | RACH Resource Request | This API is used to get CRNTI, preamble information from MAC for Contention Free Random Access |
| MAC to SCH | RACH Resource Release | This API is used to release the Contention Free RACH Resources at MAC |
| MAC to SCH | RLC Buffer Status Info | DL data volume in the RLC entity |
| MAC to SCH | Scheduling request indication | MAC provides SCH scheduling request information for UL |
| MAC to SCH | UL Buffer status report indication | MAC provides SCH buffer status report for UL scheduling |
| MAC to SCH | UL Power headroom indication | MAC provides SCH power headroom for UL scheduling |

| Direction | Message/API | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| SCH to MAC | UE configuration Response | SCH provides response to MAC for a UE configuration Request |
| SCH to MAC | UE Reconfiguration Response | SCH provides response to MAC for a UE Reconfiguration Request |
| SCH to MAC | Cell configuration Response | SCH provides response to MAC for a Cell configuration Request |
| SCH to MAC | Cell Deletion Response | SCH provides response to MAC for a Cell Deletion Request |
| SCH to MAC | UE Deletion Response | SCH provides response to MAC for a UE Deletion Request |
| SCH to MAC | DL Scheduling Information | SCH provides scheduling information for a given TTI for scheduling DL data. The scheduling information provides time and frequency domain resources to be scheduled with a list of Logical Channels (LC) and transport block size opportunity per LC. |
| SCH to MAC | UL Scheduling Information | SCH provides scheduling information for a given TTI for scheduling UL data. The scheduling information provides time and frequency domain resources to be scheduled based on the LC Group (LCG) buffer status or Scheduling Request from UE. |
| SCH to MAC | RAR Information | SCH shares the RAR and uplink scheduling and Msg3 scheduling information with MAC |
| SCH to MAC | Downlink control channel information | SCH provides to MAC information for DCI scheduling on PDCCH |
| SCH to MAC | Downlink Broadcast Allocation | Scheduling information for broadcasting SIB1 and other system information |
| SCH to MAC | Downlink Paging Allocation | Scheduling information for paging message on a paging channel |

### Common Information Elements in MAC-Scheduler APIs

### Air Interface Time

This is the timing information over the air interface in terms of system frame number and slot.

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| SFN | M | System Frame number {0…1023} |
| Slot | M | Slot number {0…319} per 38.211 and FAPI specification This value wraps around in accordance with the configured numerology in use e.g.  for m = 3 the wrap around would be mod 80  ** 80 is the number of slots per system frame for 120 kHz SCS |

### (Debug) Timing Information

Additional timing information might be present in the APIs between MAC and scheduler to help troubleshoot issues. This is an optional information element in the APIs below. This timing information is defined below.

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| SFN | M | System Frame number {0…1023} |
| Slot | M | Slot number {0…319} per 38.211 and FAPI specification This value wraps around in accordance with the configured numerology in use e.g.  for m = 3 the wrap around would be mod 80  ** 80 is the number of slots per system frame for 120 kHz SCS |
| System Time Stamp | M | Time Stamp of the system; equivalent to Linux timeval structure (tv_sec, tv_usec) |

### MAC to Scheduler APIs

### Cell Configuration Request

When MAC layer receives configuration to create a new cell, this API is invoked.

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Debug Time Info | O | This is an optional IE and may be provided on availability |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell. 2-byte integer allocated by DU |
| numOfBeams | M | Number of beams  Value: 0->64 |
| numLayers | M | Number of layers  Value: 0->8 |
| numAntPorts | M | Number of Antennae ports  Value: 0->64 |
| Physical Cell Identity | M | PCI per TS 38.331 |
| PLMN Information List | M | It defines which PLMNs that can be served by the NR cell, and which S-NSSAIs can be supported by the NR cell for corresponding PLMN in case of network slicing feature is supported. The pLMNId of the first entry of the list is the PLMNId used to construct the nCGI for the NR cell. |
| >PLMNid | M | PLMN identifier served by the cell |
| >S-NSSAIlist | CM | List of S-NSSAIs supported in the cell corresponding to the PLMN. |
| Duplex Mode | M | FDD or TDD mode of operation for the cell |
| DL Cell Bandwidth | M | Total DL Cell Bandwidth |
| UL Cell Bandwidth | M | Total UL Cell Bandwidth |
| downlinkConfigCommon | M | See TS 38.331 DownlinkConfigCommonSIB |
| >frequencyInfoDL | M | See TS 38.331 FrequencyInfoDL-SIB |
| >initialDownlinkBWP | M | See TS 38.331 BWP-DownlinkCommon |
| >BCCH-Config | M | See TS 38.331 BCCH-Config |
| >PCCH-Config | M | See TS 38.331 PCCH-Config |
| uplinkConfigCommon | M | See TS 38.331 UplinkConfigCommonSIB |
| tdd-UL-DL-ConfigurationCommon | M | See TS 38.331 TDD-UL-DL-ConfigCommon |
| >initialUplinkBWP | M | See TS 38.331 UplinkConfigCommonSIB |
| SSB PositionsInBurst | M | See TS 38.331  ssb-PositionsInBurst |
| SSB periodicityServingCell | M | See TS 38.331 ssb-periodicityServingCell |
| DMRS TypeA Position | M | See TS 38.331 dmrs-TypeA-Position |
| SSB Subcarrier Spacing | M | See TS 38.331 ssbSubcarrierSpacing |
| PDCCH Config SIB1 | M | See TS 38.331 pdcch-ConfigSIB1 |
| SS PBCH BlockPower | M | See TS 38.331 ss-PBCH-BlockPower |
| SSB Frequency | M | Indicates cell defining SSB frequency domain position Frequency of the cell defining SSB transmission in kHz |
| ssbSubOffset | M | See TS 38.331 ssb-SubcarrierOffset |
| Sib1PduLen | M |  |

### Cell Delete Request

When MAC layer receives configuration to create a new cell, this API is invoked.

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Debug Time Info | O | This is an optional IE and may be provided on availability |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell. 2-byte integer allocated by DU |

### Slice Configuration Request

Slice Configuration Request is sent to configure the MAC/Scheduler with the rRMPolicyRatio for each of the slices supported in the cell.

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| S-NSSAI List |  | This defines the list of S-NSSAIs supported in the PLMN belonging to the cell. This is to be included if network slicing is supported. |
| > S-NSSAI | M | Identification of the slice. |
| > RRMPolicyRatio | M | rRMPolicy for the slice if network slicing feature is supported. This policy is for the resource type “PRB” and applicable to gNB-DU. The other resource type “ DRB” and “RRCConnected” are applicable to gNB-CU. |
| >> rRMPolicyMaxRatio | uint8_t | This attribute specifies the maximum percentage of radio resource that can be used by the associated rRMPolicyMemberList/SNSSAI. The maximum percentage of radio resource include at least one of the shared resources, prioritized resources and dedicated resources. The sum of the rRMPolicyMaxRatio values assigned to all slices can be greater than 100. |
| >> rRMPolicyMinRatio | uint8_t | This attribute specifies the minimum percentage of radio resources that can be used by the associated rRMPolicyMemberList/sNSSAI. The minimum percentage of radio resources including at least one of prioritized resources and dedicated resources. The sum of the rRMPolicyMinRatio values assigned to all slices be less than or equal to100. |
| >>s rRMPolicyDedicatedRatio | uint8_t | This attribute specifies the percentage of radio resource that dedicatedly used by the associated rRMPolicyMemberList/sNSSAI. The sum of the rRMPolicyDeidctaedRatio values assigned to all slices be less than or equal to100. |

### Slice Reconfiguration Request

- Slice Reconfiguration Request is sent to re-configure the MAC/Scheduler with the rRMPolicyRatio for the slices for which the rRMPolicy is updated/modified over O1 interface.

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| S-NSSAI List |  | This defines the list of S-NSSAIs supported in the PLMN belonging to the cell. This is to be included if network slicing is supported. |
| > S-NSSAI | M | Identification of the slice. |
| > RRMPolicyRatio | M | rRMPolicy for the slice if network slicing feature is supported. This policy is for the resource type “PRB” and applicable to gNB-DU. The other resource type “ DRB” and “RRCConnected” are applicable to gNB-CU. |
| >> rRMPolicyMaxRatio | uint8_t | This attribute specifies the maximum percentage of radio resource that can be used by the associated rRMPolicyMemberList/SNSSAI. The maximum percentage of radio resource include at least one of the shared resources, prioritized resources and dedicated resources. The sum of the rRMPolicyMaxRatio values assigned to all slices can be greater than 100. |
| >> rRMPolicyMinRatio | uint8_t | This attribute specifies the minimum percentage of radio resources that can be used by the associated rRMPolicyMemberList/sNSSAI. The minimum percentage of radio resources including at least one of prioritized resources and dedicated resources. The sum of the rRMPolicyMinRatio values assigned to all slices be less than or equal to100. |
| >>s rRMPolicyDedicatedRatio | uint8_t | This attribute specifies the percentage of radio resource that dedicatedly used by the associated rRMPolicyMemberList/sNSSAI. The sum of the rRMPolicyDeidctaedRatio values assigned to all slices be less than or equal to100. |

### Add UE Configuration Request

This API is invoked by MAC layer to create a new UE in the scheduler, including the details of logical channels associated with the UE.

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Debug Time Info | O | This is an optional IE and may be provided on availability |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell. 2-byte integer allocated by DU |
| beamIndex | M | Index of the beam. For example, please see subclause 6.6.2 of TS 38.331 [54] where the ssb-Index in the rsIndexResults element of MeasResultNR is defined. |
| CRNTI | M | See TS 38.331 RNTI-Value. Allocated by MAC. CRNTI shall be included only in case of SA |
| mac-CellGroupConfig (schedulingRequestConfig, tag-Config, phr-Config,DRX-Config) | M | See TS 38.331 MAC-CellGroupConfig |
| physicalCellGroupConfig (pdsch-HARQ-ACK-Codebook, p-NR-FR1) | M | See TS 38.331 PhysicalCellGroupConfig |
| spCellConfig | M | See TS 38.331 SpCellConfig |
| >servCellIndex | M | See TS 38.331 ServCellIndex |
| >ServingCellConfigInfo | M | See TS 38.331 ServingCellConfig |
| >>initialDownlinkBWP (pdcch-Config, pdsch-Config) | M | See TS 38.331 BWP-DownlinkDedicated in ServingCellConfig. |
| >>> radioLinkMonitoringConfig | M | RadioLinkMonitoringConfig is used to configure radio link monitoring for detection of beam- and/or cell radio link failure. See also TS 38.321 [3], clause 5.1.1 |
| >>Number of DL BWP To Add | M | The number of dedicated DL BWP To Add |
| >>downlinkBWP-ToAddModList (bwp-Id, bwp-Common, bwp-Dedicated) | M | See TS 38.331 BWP-Downlink in ServingCellConfig |
| >>firstActiveDownlinkBWP-Id | M | See TS 38.331 ServingCellConfig |
| >>defaultDownlinkBWP-Id | M | See TS 38.331 ServingCellConfig |
| >>bwp-InactivityTimer | M | See TS 38.331 ServingCellConfig |
| >>>pdsch-ServingCellConfig (maxMIMO-Layers, nrofHARQ-ProcessesForPDSCH, codeBlockGroupTransmission, xOverhead) | M | See TS 38.331 PDSCH-ServingCellConfig in ServingCellConfig |
| >>initialUplinkBWP (pucch-Config, pusch-Config) | M | See TS 38.331 BWP-UplinkDedicated in ServingCellConfig |
| >>>beamFailureRecoveryConfig | M | The IE BeamFailureRecoveryConfig is used to configure the UE with RACH resources and candidate beams for beam failure recovery in case of beam failure detection. See also TS 38.321 [3], clause 5.1.1 |
| >>Number of UL BWP To Add | M | The number of UL BWP To Add |
| >>uplinkBWP-ToAddModList (bwp-Id, bwp-Common, bwp-Dedicated) | M | See TS 38.331 BWP-Uplink in ServingCellConfig |
| >>firstActiveUplinkBWP-Id | M | See TS 38.331 ServingCellConfig |
| UE Aggregate  Maxim-um Bit Rate Uplink | M | See TS 38.473 gNB-DU UE Aggregate Maximum Bit Rate Uplink |
| dlModInfo {modOrder, mcsIndex ,  mcsTable} | M |  |
| ulModInfo  {modOrder,  mcsIndex,  mcsTable} | M |  |
| Number of LC To Add | M | The number of Logical Channel To Add |
| >logicalChannelIdentity | M | See TS 38.331 logicalChannelIdentity |
| Qos (5Qi, GBR Qos Info, NG-RAN Allocation and Retention Priority, GBR QoS Flow Information, PDU Session ID, UL PDU Session Aggregate Maximum Bit Rate) | M | See TS 38.473 DRB QoS in UE CONTEXT MODIFICATION REQUEST |
| >S-NSSAI | M | See TS 38.473 Section 9.2.2.1 DRB Information |
| >DL LogicalChannelConfig (Lc priority) | M | See TS 38.321 Logical channel priority |
| >UL LogicalChannelConfig (priority, logicalChannelGroup, schedulingRequestID, prioritisedBitRate, bucketSizeDuration) | M | See 38.331 LogicalChannelConfig |

### Modify UE Reconfiguration Request

MAC layer invokes this API to modify an existing UE context also to add/release/modify existing logical channels.

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Debug Time Info | O | This is an optional IE and may be provided on availability |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell |
| beamIndex | M | Index of the beam. For example, please see subclause 6.6.2 of TS 38.331 [54] where the ssb-Index in the rsIndexResults element of MeasResultNR is defined. |
| CRNTI | M | See TS 38.331 RNTI-Value |
| mac-CellGroup-Reconfig (schedulingRequest-Reconfig, tag-Reconfig) | M | See TS 38.331 MAC-CellGroupConfig |
| physicalCellGroup-Reconfig (pdsch-HARQ-ACK-Codebook, p-NR-FR1) | M | See TS 38.331 PhysicalCellGroupConfig |
| spCell-Reconfig | M | See TS 38.331 SpCellConfig |
| >servCellIndex | M | See TS 38.331 ServCellIndex |
| >ServingCell-ReconfigInfo | M | See TS 38.331 ServingCellConfig |
| >>initialDownlinkBWP-Reconfig (pdcch-Config, pdsch-Config) | M | See TS 38.331 BWP-DownlinkDedicated in ServingCellConfig |
| >>> radioLinkMonitoringConfig | M | RadioLinkMonitoringConfig is used to configure radio link monitoring for detection of beam- and/or cell radio link failure. See also TS 38.321 [3], clause 5.1.1 |
| >>Number of DL BWP To Add or Modify | M | The number of dedicated DL BWP To Add or Modify |
| >>downlinkBWP-ToAddModList (bwp-Id, bwp-Common, bwp-Dedicated) | M | See TS 38.331 BWP-Downlink in ServingCellConfig |
| >>Number of DL BWP To Release | M | The number of dedicated DL BWP to remove |
| >>downlinkBWP-ToReleaseList (bwp-Id) | M | See TS 38.331 downlinkBWP-ToReleaseList in ServingCellConfig |
| >>firstActiveDownlinkBWP-Id | M | See TS 38.331 ServingCellConfig |
| >>defaultDownlinkBWP-Id | M | See TS 38.331 ServingCellConfig |
| >>bwp-InactivityTimer | M | See TS 38.331 ServingCellConfig |
| >>pdsch-ServingCell-Reconfig (maxMIMO-Layers, nrofHARQ-ProcessesForPDSCH, codeBlockGroupTransmission, xOverhead) | M | See TS 38.331 PDSCH-ServingCellConfig |
| >>initialUplinkBWP-Reconfig (pucch-Config, pusch-Config) | M | See TS 38.331 BWP-UplinkDedicated in ServingCellConfig |
| >>>beamFailureRecoveryConfig | M | The IE BeamFailureRecoveryConfig is used to configure the UE with RACH resources and candidate beams for beam failure recovery in case of beam failure detection. See also TS 38.321 [3], clause 5.1.1 |
| >>Number of UL BWP To Add or Modify | M | The number of dedicated UL BWP To Add or Modify |
| >>uplinkBWP-ToAddModList (bwp-Id, bwp-Common, bwp-Dedicated) | M | See TS 38.331 BWP-Uplink in ServingCellConfig |
| >>Number of UL BWP To Release | M | The number of dedicated UL BWP to remove |
| >>uplinkBWP-ToReleaseList (bwp-Id) | M | See TS 38.331 uplinkBWP-ToReleaseList in ServingCellConfig |
| >>firstActiveUplinkBWP-Id | M | See TS 38.331 ServingCellConfig |
| UE Aggregate Maximum Bit Rate Uplink | M | See TS 38.473 gNB-DU UE Aggregate Maximum Bit Rate Uplink |
| dlModInfo {modOrder, mcsIndex ,  mcsTable} | M |  |
| ulModInfo  {modOrder,  mcsIndex,  mcsTable} | M |  |
| Number of LC To Add | M | The number of Logical Channel to Add |
| logicalChannelIdentity | M | See TS 38.331 logicalChannelIdentity |
| Qos (5Qi, GBR Qos Info, NG-RAN Allocation and Retention Priority, GBR QoS Flow Information, PDU Session ID, UL PDU Session Aggregate Maximum Bit Rate) | M | See TS 38.473 DRB QoS in UE CONTEXT MODIFICATION REQUEST |
| S-NSSAI | M | See TS 38.473 S-NSSAI in UE CONTEXT MODIFICATION REQUEST |
| DL LogicalChannelConfig (Lc priority) | M | See TS 38.321 Logical channel priority |
| UL LogicalChannelConfig (priority, logicalChannelGroup, schedulingRequestID, prioritisedBitRate, bucketSizeDuration) | M | See 38.331 LogicalChannelConfig |
| Number of LC To Delete | M | The number of Logical Channel to Delete |
| >logicalChannelIdentity | M | See TS 38.331 logicalChannelIdentity |
| >Number of LC To Modified | M | The number of Logical Channel To Modified |
| >Logical Channel Identity | M | See TS 38.331 logicalChannelIdentity |
| >Qos(5Qi , GBR Qos Info, NG-RAN Allocation and Retention Priority, GBR QoS Flow Information, PDU Session ID, UL PDU Session Aggregate Maximum Bit Rate) | M | See TS 38.473 DRB QoS in UE CONTEXT MODIFICATION REQUEST |
| >S-NSSAI | M | See TS 38.473 S-NSSAI in UE CONTEXT MODIFICATION REQUEST |
| >DL LogicalChannelConfig (Lc priority) | M | See TS 38.321 Logical channel priority |
| >UL LogicalChannelConfig (priority, logicalChannelGroup, schedulingRequestID, prioritisedBitRate, bucketSizeDuration) | M | See 38.331 LogicalChannelConfig |
| drxConfigIndictorRelease | M | As per Spec 38.473, CU sends this parameter in ‘UE Context Mod req’ to indicate whether to release UE or not Value: ENUM(release,..) |

### Delete UE Request

MAC indicates to Scheduler to Delete an existing UE using this API.

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Debug Time Info | O | This is an optional IE and may be provided on availability |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell. 2-byte integer allocated by DU |
| CRNTI | M | See TS 38.331 RNTI-Value |

### DL HARQ Indication

MAC informs Scheduler on reception and Decoding of received DL HARQ feedback from the UE. Feedback itself might have been received either on PUSCH or PUCCH, decoding of feedback is done at MAC/L1.

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell. 2-byte integer allocated by DU |
| CRNTI | M | See TS 38.331 RNTI-Value |
| Timing Information | M | Timing information for this message. |
| Number of HARQ feedback Reported | M | Number of HARQ feedback bits reported |
| >harq payload bits | M | Bitmap of length = MAX_HARQ_BITS per 38.213 |

### UL HARQ (CRC) Indication

This API is invoked by MAC to inform Scheduler the CRC decode results of PUSCH.

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell. 2-byte integer allocated by DU |
| CRNTI | M | See TS 38.331 RNTI-Value |
| Timing Information | M | Timing information for this message. |
| Number of CRC Indication Reported | M | Number of CRC Indication reported |
| >CRC Indication | M | {0...MAX_NUMBER_OF_CRC_IND_BITS} for UL SISO there would be just 1 bit 0: PASS 1: FAILURE For the case of UL MIMO 1 bit per TB would convey the feedback |

### UL Channel Quality Information

MAC informs Scheduler using this API the UL Channel Quality Indication of PUSCH/PUCCH

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell. 2-byte integer allocated by DU |
| CRNTI | M | See TS 38.331 RNTI-Value |
| Timing Information | M | Timing information for this message. |
| Number of UL CQI Indication Reported | M | Number of UL CQI Indication reported |
| >Type of Report | M | {PUCCH, PUSCH} |
| >UL_CQI | M | 0-255 in steps of 0.5 dB {-64 dB, … 63 dB} |
| >Timing Advance | M | TA measured for 38.213 section 4.2 |

### DL Channel Quality Information

This API is invoked by MAC to report to Scheduler the DL Channel Quality delivered on PUSCH/PUCCH

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell. 2-byte integer allocated by DU |
| CRNTI | M | See TS 38.331 RNTI-Value |
| Timing Information | M | Timing information for this message. |
| Number of DL CQI Indication Reported | M | Number of UL CQI Indication reported |
| >Type of Report | M | Bitmap for CQI, PMI, RI, CRI report |
| > CQI | O | CQI report on PUCCH/PUSCH |
| >PMI | O | PMI report on PUCCH/PUSCH |
| >CRI | O | CQI report on PUCCH/PUSCH |
| >RI | O | RI report on PUCCH/PUSCH |

### RACH Indication Contents

MAC receives the RACH Indication and shares the contents with the scheduler.

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell. 2-byte integer allocated by DU |
| CRNTI | M | See TS 38.331 RNTI-Value |
| Timing Information | M | Timing information for this message. |
| Slot Index | M | Index of the First Slot where RACH was detected |
| Symbol Index | M | Index of the first OFDM Symbol where RACH was detected |
| Frequency Index | M | Index of the Frequency where RACH was detected. 38.211 |
| Preamble ID | M | Preamble ID that was detected |
| Timing Advance | M | Timing Advance that was detected and reported to MAC |

### Paging Indication Contents

MAC indicates Paging message (F1AP Paging) contents to scheduler.

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell. 2-byte integer allocated by DU |
| Paging Frame | M | One Paging Frame (PF) is one Radio Frame and may contain one or multiple PO(s) or starting point of a PO. |
| Paging Occasion | M | A PO is a set of PDCCH monitoring occasions and can consist of multiple time slots (e.g. subframe or OFDM symbol) where paging DCI can be sent] |
| Number of Paging Retries | O | Number of times the paging message is to be transmitted. This decision may be a higher/RRM decision hence relayed to Scheduler. |
| Paging message | M | Bit string. Paging messages need to transfer |

### RACH Resource Request

When contention free random access is initiated by a UE, MAC shares the CRNTI and SSB resource allocation information with the scheduler through this API.

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Frame Number | M | Time indication |
| Slot Number | M | Time indication |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell |
| CRNTI | M | The CRNTI allocated by MAC for the UE |
| Number of SSB | M | The number of ssb for which CFRA resource allocation is requested. |
| >ssb | M | See TS 38.331 SSB-Index |

### RACH Resource Release

MAC indicates to scheduler through this API when RACH resources associated with a UE have to be released.

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Frame Number | M | Time indication |
| Slot Number | M | Time indication |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell |
| CRNTI | M | The CRNTI allocated by MAC for the UE |
| CFRA-SSB-Resource | M | See TS 38.331 CFRA-SSB-Resource |
| >Ssb index | M | See TS 38.331 SSB-Index |
| >ra preamble index | M | The RA preamble index to be used in the RA occasions associated with this SSB. |

### DL RLC Buffer Status Information

This API is used by RLC for reporting data volume per UE for multiple LCs. This can be used in two different ways depending on the QoS/latency requirements.

- Data Volume reports are aggregated per UE (at an aggregation point such as slot indication)
- This adds latency however it reduces message exchange traffic between SCHED and MAC
- Data Volume is reported per LC as soon as it is received at MAC
- This adds to the message exchange traffic however it would be perfect for Low Latency Usecases
Implementor of this API can choose either one of the above approaches.

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Debug Time Info | O | This is an optional IE and may be provided on availability |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell. 2-byte integer allocated by DU |
| CRNTI | M | See TS 38.331 RNTI-Value |
| Number of DL LCs to be Reported | M | Number of LC for which DL Buffer Occupancy/Data Volume is being reported |
| >logicalChannelIdentity | M | {1...32} SRB/DRB logical channel identity |
| >> S-NSSAI | M | Slice identifier associated to the logical channel |
| >> dataVolume | M | Integer representing number of Cumulative Bytes for the logical channel |

### Scheduling Request Indication

MAC indicates to scheduler through this API when UE has to be scheduled for uplink grant.

| Element |  | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Cell Index |  | M | Identification of the Cell. 2-byte integer allocated by DU |
| CRNTI |  | M | See TS 38.331 RNTI-Value |
| Timing Information |  | M | Timing information for this particular message. |
| Number of SR Bits |  | M | {0..7} number of SR bits reported |
| SR Payload |  | M | Bitmap equal to the MAX_SR_BIT |

### UL Buffer Status Report Indication

This API is invoked by MAC on reception and Decoding of received BSR from the UE.

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell. 2-byte integer allocated by DU |
| CRNTI | M | See TS 38.331 RNTI-Value |
| BSR Type | M | Enumeration of {SHORT_BSR, LONG_BSR, SHORT_TRUNCATED_BSR, LONG_TRUNCATED_BSR} |
| Number of UL LCGs Reported | M | Number of UL LCGs carried in the BSR |
| >logicalChannelGroupId | M | {0...7} logical channel Group identity |
| >> dataVolume | M | Integer representing number of reported Bytes |

### Power Headroom Indication

MAC invokes this API to inform Scheduler on reception and decoding of received PHR from the UE.

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell. 2-byte integer allocated by DU |
| CRNTI | M | See TS 38.331 RNTI-Value |
| PHR Type | M | Enumeration of {SINGLE_ENTRY_PHR, MULTIPLE_ENTRY_PHR} |
| >Single Entry PHR | O | Present if the PHR Type == SINGLE_ENTRY_PHR |
| >>Power Head Room | M | 1 Byte – Reported Power Head Room as per 38.321 Section 6.1.3.8 |
| >> PCMAX, f, c | M | This field indicates the PCMAX, f, c (as specified in TS 38.213) used for calculation of the preceding PH field. |
| >Multiple Entry PHR | O | Present if PHR Type == MULTIPLE_ENTRY_PHR |
| >>Number of Reports | M | Number of PHRs reported in this instance. Range as specified in TS 38.321 |
| >>PH Type | M | Enumeration {PH_TYPE_1, PH_TYPE_2} |
| >>>Power Head Room | M | 1 Byte – Reported Power Head Room as per 38.321 Section 6.1.3.8 |
| >>> PCMAX, f, c | M | This field indicates the PCMAX, f, c (as specified in TS 38.213) used for calculation of the preceding PH field. |

### Scheduler to MAC APIs

### Cell Configuration Response

This API is invoked by scheduler to respond to a Cell configuration request.

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell. 2-byte integer allocated by DU |
| Response | M | Response that maybe used to identify failure/success OK – Success NOK – Failure |
| Error Cause | O | If Response == NOK This field describes the cause of the failure. |

### Cell Deletion Response

This API is invoked by scheduler to respond to a Cell Deletion request.

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell. 2-byte integer allocated by DU |
| Response | M | Response that maybe used to identify failure/success OK – Success NOK – Failure |
| Error Cause | O | If Response == NOK This field describes the cause of the failure. |

### Slice Configuration Response

- This API is invoked by scheduler to respond to a Slice Configuration request.

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Slice Index | M | Identification of the Slice. This constitute of SST of 8-bit and SD of 24-bit value. |
| Response | M | Response that maybe used to identify failure/success in case the slice configuration is accepted by the scheduler. OK – Success NOK – Failure |
| Error Cause | O | If Response == NOK This field describes the cause of the failure. The cause can be specific to Vendor’s implementation. |

### Slice Reconfiguration Response

- This API is invoked by scheduler to respond to a Slice Reconfiguration request.

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Slice Index | M | Identification of the Slice. This constitute of SST of 8-bit and SD of 24-bit value. |
| Response | M | Response that maybe used to identify failure/success in case the slice reconfiguration request is accepted by the scheduler. OK – Success NOK – Failure |
| Error Cause | O | If Response == NOK This field describes the cause of the failure. The cause can be specific to Vendor’s implementation. |

### UE Configuration Response

This response API is used by scheduler to respond to a UE configuration request from MAC.

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell. 2-byte integer allocated by DU |
| beamIndex | M | Index of the beam. For example, please see subclause 6.6.2 of TS 38.331 [54] where the ssb-Index in the rsIndexResults element of MeasResultNR is defined. |
| CRNTI | M | See TS 38.331 RNTI-Value |
| Response | M | Response that maybe used to identify failure/success OK – Success NOK – Failure |
| Error Cause | O | If Response == NOK This field describes the cause of the failure. |

### UE Reconfiguration Response

This response API is used by scheduler to respond to a UE reconfiguration request from MAC.

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell. 2-byte integer allocated by DU |
| beamIndex | M | Index of the beam. For example, please see subclause 6.6.2 of TS 38.331 [54] where the ssb-Index in the rsIndexResults element of MeasResultNR is defined. |
| CRNTI | M | See TS 38.331 RNTI-Value |
| Response | M | Response that maybe used to identify failure/success OK – Success NOK – Failure |
| Error Cause | O | If Response == NOK This field describes the cause of the failure. |

### UE Deletion Response

Scheduler responds with this API to a UE deletion request from MAC.

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell. 2-byte integer allocated by DU |
| CRNTI | M | See TS 38.331 RNTI-Value |
| Response | M | Response that maybe used to identify failure/success OK – Success NOK – Failure |
| Error Cause | O | If Response == NOK This field describes the cause of the failure. |

### DL Scheduling Information

Scheduler provides scheduling information for a given TTI for downlink data. Downlink data can either be a Broadcast message or RAR or MSG4 or Grant for the BSR response or a Dedicated downlink message. Scheduling information contains timing information, time and frequency domain resources to be scheduled with a list of logical channels and TBS opportunity per LC, BWP information along with PDCCH and PDSCH configuration. Additionally, SCH also provides a list of MAC CEs that are scheduled for a specific transmission opportunity. MAC is supposed to encode these CEs into the MAC PDU.

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell. 2-byte integer allocated by DU |
| Timing Information | M | Timing information for this message (SFN/Slot). |
| CRNTI | M | See TS 38.331 RNTI-Value. This may be SI-RNTI or C-RNTI or RA-RNTI. |
| Broadcast Presence | M | If DL scheduling is for broadcast message |
| Downlink Broadcast Allocation | O | DL Resource allocation for Broadcast message conditionally present when Broadcast Presence is true. |
| >SSB Transmission Mode | M | SSB Transmission mode as follows:     { * 0 : No transmission     * 1 : SSB Transmission     * 2 : SSB Repetition } |
| >Supported SSB Index | M | Supported SSB Index |
| >SSB Information | M | SSB Resource information |
| >>SSB Index | M | SS/PBCH block index within an SSB burst set [TS38.211, section 7.3.3.1]. Required for PBCH DMRS scrambling. Value: 0->63 (Lmax) |
| >>TimeDomainAllocation | M | Time Domain resources allocation [TS38.211 section 7.4.3.1] |
| >>>StartSymbolNumber | M | OFDM symbol number |
| >>>Number of Symbols | M | Number of Symbols |
| >>FrequencyDomainAllocation | M | Frequency Domain resources allocation [TS38.211 section 7.4.3.1] |
| >>>StartPRB | M | PRB start number |
| >>>NoOfPRBs | M | Number of PRBs |
| > System information indicator | M | {0 – 1}. Specifies SIB1 or SI message; as defined in 38.212 Table 7.3.1.2.1-2 |
| > SI Content | M | Byte Array [MAX_BYTES_FOR_SI]; this carries the ASN.1 encoded System Information Messages that Scheduler wants to transmit to the UE; as defined in 38.331 SIB1 or SystemInformation. Maximum TB size is 2976 bytes as per 38.214 section 5.1.3.2 |
| > SIB1 Transmission Mode | M | SIB1 transmission mode |
| > SIB1 Allocation Information | O | SIB1 Resource Allocation Information |
| >> BWP Configuration | M | Specifies the BWP information for Scheduling Broadcast data, Refer Table 9-34 BWP Configuration |
| >> PDCCH Configuration | M | Specifies the CORESET and DL DCI(s) information. |
| >>> CORESET Configuration | M | CORESET Configuration. Refer Table 9-35 CORESET Configuration. |
| >>> NumberOfDLDCI | M | Number of DL DCIs |
| >>> DLDCI | O | DL DCI Information, Refer Table 9-39 DL DCI Configuration |
| Random Access Response Allocation | O | DL Resource allocation for Random Access Response message conditionally present when RAR Presence is true. |
| > RAR Information |  |  |
| >>RAPID | M |  |
| >>TA | M | timing advance command [11, TS 38.321], . Refer TS 38.321 section 4.2 |
| >>msg3FreqAlloc | M | Frequency Domain resource allocation for msg3 |
| >>>StartPRB | M | BWPStart: bandwidth part start RB index from reference CRB [TS38.213 sec 12] Value: 0->274 |
| >>>NoOfPRBs | M | BWPSize: Bandwidth part size [TS38.213 sec12]. Number of contiguous PRBs allocated to the BWP Value: 1->275 |
| >>TC_RNTI | M | See TS 38.331 RNTI-Value |
| >>rarPDULen | M | RAR PDU Length |
| >>rarPDU | M | RAR PDU |
| > BWP Configuration | M | Specifies the BWP information for Scheduling Random Access Response. Refer Table 9-34 BWP Configuration. |
| > PDCCH Configuration | M | Specifies the CORESET and DL DCI(s) information. |
| >> CORESET Configuration | M | CORESET Configuration. Refer Table 9-35 CORESET Configuration. |
| >> NumberOfDLDCI | M | Number of DL DCIs |
| >> DLDCI | M | DL DCI and DL SCH  Information. Refer Table 9-39 DL DCI Configuration. |
| DCI Information | O | Downlink Control Information for UL grant |
| > BWP Configuration | M | Specifies the BWP information for Downlink control data. Refer Table 9-34 BWP Configuration. |
| > CORESET Configuration | M | CORESET Configuration . Refer Table 9-35 CORESET Configuration. |
| > DCI Format Type | M | DCI Format as defined in TS 38.212 section 7.3.1 |
| >> Format 0_0 |  | DCI format for scheduling PUSCH in one cell, Refer Table 9-36 DCI Format 0_0 Configuration. |
| >> Format 0_1 |  | DCI format for scheduling one or multiple PUSCH in one cell,  Refer Table 9-37 DCI Format 0_0 Configuration. |
| > DLDCI | M | DL DCI and DL SCH Information |
| Downlink Message Allocation | O | DL data Allocation |
| > DCIFormatID | M | Value: 1 bit, the value of this bit field is always set to 1, indicating a DL DCI format |
| > harqProcessID | M | HARQ process number 4 bits [TS38.212, sec 7.3.1.2], it should match value sent in DCI Value: 0 ->15 |
| > VRB-PRBMapping | M | Value: 1, According to 38.212 Table 7.3.1.1.2-33      0: Non-Interleaved      1: Interleaved |
| > DownlinkAssignmentIndex | M | Value:2 bits [TS38.214, sec 7.3.1.1.2] |
| > tpcCommand | O | TPC command for scheduled PUSCH, TS 38.213-table 7.1.1-1 |
| > PUCCHResourceIndicator | M | Given by higher layer parameter PUCCHResourceSet defined in PUCCH-Config, else as defined in TS 38.213 table -1. |
| > PDSCH-to-HARQ_feedback timing indicator | O | Value: 3 bits. maps to maps to k1= {1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8}. |
| >>dlMsgPDU | M | DL Message PDU |
| >>dlMsgPDULen | M | DL Msg PDU Length |
| Frequency Domain Allocation | M | Frequency Domain resource assignment; as defined in 38.214 |
| >resource allocation type | M | {Type-0, Type-1} from 38.214 |
| >resourceAllocationType-0 | O | Conditional presence on the resource allocation type value |
| >>rbBitMap | M | Resource allocation Type-0 bit map |
| >resourceAllocationType-1 | O | Conditional presence on the resource allocation type value |
| >>Start RB | M | Starting Resource Block for the allocation |
| >>Number of RBs | M | Number of allocated Resource Blocks |
| Time Domain Allocation | M | Specifies the time domain allocation for this transmission |
| >Start Symbol Index | M | Specifies the index of the starting symbol of the allocation {0…13} |
| >Number of Symbols | M | Specifies the number of contiguous symbols allocated for this transmission {1…14} |
| Number of TBs | M | Number of scheduled Transportblocks |
| TB1 | M | Transport Block#1 |
| >MCS | M | {0…31} per 38.214 |
| >NDI | M | New Data Indicator (toggled if a new transmission) |
| >RV | M | Redundancy Version {0, 2, 3, 1} per 38.212 |
| >TB Size | M | Transport Block Size in Bytes {0…65535} |
| >Number of DL CEs Scheduled | M | Number of DL CEs Scheduled {0…32} |
| >>CE Content | M | Information for the CE carried in non-encoded format.  Refer the table below for details |
| >Number of DL LCs Scheduled | M | Number of DL LCs Scheduled {0…32}; includes both SRBs and DRBs |
| >>DL LCID | M | DL LCs ID {0…32} |
| >>Number of Scheduled Bytes | M | Number of Scheduled Bytes for this specific Logical Channel {0…65535} |
| TB2 | O | Transport Block # 2 |
| >MCS | M | {0…31} per 38.214 |
| >NDI | M | New Data Indicator (toggled if a new transmission) |
| >RV | M | Redundancy Version {0, 2, 3, 1} per 38.212 |
| >TB Size | M | Transport Block Size in Bytes {0…65535} |
| >Number of DL CEs Scheduled | M | Number of DL CEs Scheduled {0…32} |
| >>CE LCID | M | Corresponds to CEs LCID as per 38.321 |
| >>CE Content | M | Byte Array [MAX_BYTES_PER_CE]; this carries the CE content (not encoded) that Scheduler wants to transmit to the UE. MAC takes this content and encode per the formats defined in 38.321 |
| >Number of DL LCs Scheduled | M | Number of DL LCs Scheduled {0…32}; includes both SRBs and DRBs |
| >>DL LCID | M | DL LCs ID {0…32} |
| >>Number of Scheduled Bytes | M | Number of Scheduled Bytes for this specific Logical Channel {0…65535} |
| > BWP Configuration | M | Specifies the BWP information for Downlink control data. Refer Table 9-34 BWP Configuration. |
| > PDCCH Configuration | M | Specifies the CORESET and DL DCI(s) information. |
| >> CORESET Configuration | M | CORESET Configuration, Refer Table 9-35 CORESET Configuration. |
| >> NumberOfDLDCI | M | Number of DL DCIs |
| >> DLDCI | M | DL DCI and DL SCH Information. Refer Table 9-39 DL DCI Configuration. |

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| CE LC_ID | M | Corresponds to CEs LCID as per 38.321 |
| Contention Resolution Identity CE | O | If LC_ID corresponds to UE Contention Resolution Identity CE. No content is sent from Scheduler to MAC as the contents of Msg3 are to be buffered at MAC |
| Timing Advance Command CE | O | If LC_ID corresponds to Timing Advance Command CE |
| >TAG ID | M | Timing Advance Group ID as per 38.321 |
| >Timing Advance | M | Index value of TA per 38.321 and 38.213 |
| SCell Activation/Deactivation CE | O | If LC_ID Corresponds to SCell Activation/Deactivation CE |
| >Number of SCells | M | Number of SCells being addressed in this IE |
| >act_deact_val [MAX_NUMBER OF_SCELLS] | M | An Array of values corresponding to the index of the SCell as configured per 38.331.  Value at each index i corresponds to  0 – Deactivation  1 – Activation MAX_NUMBER_OF_SCELL = 31 per 38.321 current specification, subject to change with newer specification versions. |
| BFR MAC CE | O |  |
| >SP | M | Beam failure detection for the SpCell of this MAC entity as per TS 38.321 section 6.1.3. |
| > Ci | M | Beam failure detection (as specified in TS 38.321 clause 5.17) and the presence of an octet containing the AC field for the SCell with ServCellIndex i as specified in TS 38.331. |
| > AC | M | Indicates the presence of the Candidate RS ID field in this octet as per TS 38.321 section 6.1.3. |
| > Candidate RS ID | M | Index of an SSB with SS-RSRP above rsrp-ThresholdBFR amongst the SSBs in candidateBeamRSSCellList or to the index of a CSI-RS with CSI-RSRP above rsrp-ThresholdBFR amongst the CSI-RSs in candidateBeamRSSCellList. Index of an SSB or CSI-RS is the index of an entry in candidateBeamRSSCellList corresponding to the SSB or CSI-RS. |
| >R | M | Reserved bit, set to 0. |

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| BWP | M | Specifies the DL DCI Coreset and Search Space for Scheduling DCI for Broadcast data. |
| >Subcarrierspacing | M | subcarrierSpacing [TS38.211 sec 4.2] Value:0->4 |
| >CyclicPrefix | M | Cyclic prefix type [TS38.211 sec 4.2] 0: Normal; 1: Extended |
| >Frequency Domain Resources | M | Frequency Domain resources allocation |
| >>StartPRB | M | BWPStart: bandwidth part start RB index from reference CRB [TS38.213 sec 12] Value: 0->274 |
| >>NoOfPRBs | M | BWPSize: Bandwidth part size [TS38.213 sec12]. Number of contiguous PRBs allocated to the BWP Value: 1->275 |

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| CORESET | M | Specifies the CORESET Information. Refer [TS38.211 sec 7.3.2.2] |
| > CORESET Size | M | Coreset size, {One CORESET, Two  CORESET ,} |
| > StartSymbolIndex | M | Starting OFDM symbol for the CORESET Value: 0->13 |
| > DurationSymbols | M | Contiguous time duration of the CORESET in number of symbols. Corresponds to L1 parameter 𝑁𝑠𝑦𝑚𝑏 𝐶𝑂𝑅𝐸𝑆𝐸𝑇 [TS38.211 sec 7.3.2.2] Value: 1,2,3 |
| > FrequencyDomainResource | M | Resource location in frequency domain. This IE is a bitmap, similar to Type1 frequency domain allocation. |
| > CceRegMappingType | M | CORESET-CCE-to-REG-mapping-type [TS38.211 sec 7.3.2.2] 0: non-interleaved 1: interleaved |
| >> RegBundleSize | M | The number of REGs in a bundle. Must be 6 for cceRegMappingType = nonInterleaved. For cceRegMappingType = interleaved, must belong to {2,6} if duration = 1,2 and must belong to {3,6} if duration = 3. Corresponds to parameter L. [TS38.211 sec 7.3.2.2] Value: 2,3,6 |
| >>InterleaverSize | M | The interleaver size. For interleaved mapping belongs to {2,3,6} and for non-interleaved mapping is NA. Corresponds to parameter R. [TS38.211 sec 7.3.2.2] Value: 2,3,6 |
| >>ShiftIndex | M | [TS38.211 sec 7.3.2.2] Not applicable for non-interleaved mapping. For interleaved mapping and a PDCCH transmitted in a CORESET configured by the PBCH or SIB1 this should be set to phy cell ID. Value: 10 bits Otherwise, for interleaved mapping this is set to 0-> max num of PRBs. Value 0-> 275 |
| > CORESETType | M | [TS38.211 sec 7.3.2.2 and sec 7.4.1.3.2] 0: CORESET is configured by the PBCH or SIB1 (subcarrier 0 of CRB0 for DMRS mapping) 1: otherwise (subcarrier 0 of CORESET) |
| > CoresetPoolIndex | O | The index of the CORESET pool for this CORESET as specified in TS 38.213 [13] (clauses 9 and 10) and TS 38.214 [19] (clauses 5.1 and 6.1).  With two different values of CORESETPoolIndex in ControlResourceSet, the UE may expect to receive multiple PDCCHs scheduling fully/partially/non-overlapped PDSCHs in time and frequency domain. The UE may expect the reception of full/partially-overlapped PDSCHs in time only when PDCCHs that schedule two PDSCHs are associated to different ControlResourceSets having different values of CORESETPoolIndex. |
| > PrecoderGranularity | M | Granularity of precoding [TS38.211 sec 7.3.2.2] 0: sameAsRegBundle 1: allContiguousRBs |
| > CCEIndex | M | CCE start Index used to send the DCI Value: 0->135 |
| > AggregationLevel | M | Aggregation level used [TS38.211, sec 7.3.2.1] Value: 1,2,4,8,16 |

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| FORMAT0_0 | M | Specifies the DCI format 0_0 [TS38.212 sec 7.3.1.1.1] |
| > resourceAlloc | M | Resource Allocation Type [TS38.214, sec 6.1.2.2] 0: Type 0 1: Type 1 |
| > Frequency Domain Allocation | M | Frequency Domain resources allocation |
| >>resource allocation type | M | {Type-0, Type-1} from 38.214 |
| >>resourceAllocationType-0 | O | Conditional presence on the resource allocation type value |
| >>>rbBitMap | M | Resource allocation Type-0 bit map |
| > >resourceAllocationType-1 | O | Conditional presence on the resource allocation type value |
| >>> StartPRB | M | BWPStart: bandwidth part start RB index from reference CRB [TS38.213 sec 12] Value: 0->274 |
| >>> NoOfPRBs | M | BWPSize: Bandwidth part size [TS38.213 sec12]. Number of contiguous PRBs allocated to the BWP Value: 1->275 |
| >TimeDomainAllocation | M | 4 bits as defined in Clause 6.1.2.1 of [6, TS 38.214] |
| >> StartSymbolNumber | M | OFDM symbol number |
| >> Number of Symbols | M | Number of Symbols |
| > Row | M | Row entry to pusch-AllocationList, Time Domain resource allocation for PUSCH based on 38.214 - 6.1.2.1 Resource allocation in time domain |
| > mcs | M | mcsIndex uint8_t MCS index [TS38.214, sec 6.1.4, & 5.1.3.1], Value: 0->31 |
| > harqProcessID | M | HARQ process number [TS38.212, sec 7.3.1.1], it should match value sent in DCI Value: 0 ->15 |
| > FrequencyHopping | M | For resource allocation type 1. [TS38.212, sec 7.3.1.1] [TS38.214, sec 6.3] Indicates if frequency hopping is enabled Value: 0: disabled |
| > newDataIndicator | M | Indicates if this new data or a retransmission [TS38.212, sec 7.3.1.1]  Value: 0: retransmission 1: new data |
| > rvIndex | M | Redundancy version index [TS38.214, sec 6.1.4], it should match value sent in DCI Value: 0->3 |
| > tpcCommand | M | TPC command for scheduled PUSCH, TS 38.213-table 7.1.1-1 |
| > SULIndicator | M | SUL Configuration, 0 bit: SUL not figured 1 bit: SUL configured |

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| FORMAT0_1 | M | Specifies the DCI format 0_1 [TS38.212 sec 7.3.1.1.2] |
| > carrierIndicator | M | Indicator to the carrier, 0 or 3 bits, as defined in Clause 10.1 of [5, TS38.213] |
| > SULIndicator | M | SUL Configuration, 0 bit: SUL not figured 1 bit: SUL configured |
| > BWPIndicator | M | Bits-0,1,2. Determined by BandwidthPart-Config in higher layer message and 38.212 - Table 7.3.1.1.2-1 |
| > resourceAlloc | M | Resource Allocation Type [TS38.214, sec 6.1.2.2] 0: Type 0 1: Type 1 |
| > Frequency Domain Allocation | M | Frequency Domain resources allocation |
| >> StartPRB | M | BWPStart: bandwidth part start RB index from reference CRB [TS38.213 sec 12] Value: 0->274 |
| >> NoOfPRBs | M | BWPSize: Bandwidth part size [TS38.213 sec12]. Number of contiguous PRBs allocated to the BWP Value: 1->275 |
| >TimeDomainAllocation | M | 4 bits as defined in Clause 6.1.2.1 of [6, TS 38.214] |
| >> StartSymbolNumber | M | OFDM symbol number |
| >> Number of Symbols | M | Number of Symbols |
| > Row | M | Row entry to pusch-AllocationList, Time Domain resource allocation for PUSCH based on 38.214 - 6.1.2.1 Resource allocation in time domain |
| > mcs | M | mcsIndex uint8_t MCS index [TS38.214, sec 6.1.4, & 5.1.3.1], Value: 0->31 |
| > harqProcessID | M | HARQ process number [TS38.212, sec 7.3.1.1], it should match value sent in DCI Value: 0 ->15 |
| > FrequencyHopping | M | For resource allocation type 1. [TS38.212, sec 7.3.1.1] [TS38.214, sec 6.3] Indicates if frequency hopping is enabled Value: 0: disabled |
| > newDataIndicator | M | Indicates if this new data or a retransmission [TS38.212, sec 7.3.1.1]  Value: 0: retransmission 1: new data |
| > rvIndex | M | Redundancy version index [TS38.214, sec 6.1.4], it should match value sent in DCI Value: 0->3 |
| > 1stDownlinkAssignmentIndex | M | Value:1, 2 or 4 bits [TS38.214, sec 7.3.1.1.2] |
| > 2ndDownlinkAssignmentIndex | M | Value:0, 2 or 4 bits [TS38.214, sec 7.3.1.1.2] |
| > tpcCommand | M | TPC command for scheduled PUSCH, TS 38.213-table 7.1.1-1 |
| >SRSResourceSetIndicator | M | 0 or 2 bits, 2 bits according to Table 7.3.1.1.2-36 in TS 38.212 0 bit otherwise. The SRS resource set applicability is configured by the higher layer parameter usage in SRS-ResourceSet. When the higher layer parameter usage is set to 'beamManagement', only one SRS resource in each of multiple SRS sets may be transmitted at a given time instant, but the SRS resources in different SRS resource sets with the same time domain behaviour in the same BWP may be transmitted simultaneously. |
| > SRSResourceIndicator |  | Given by higher layer parameter srs-ResourceSetToAddModList |
| > TPMI | O | Value: 0,2,3,4,5,6. Determined by ulTxConfig, Number of Antenna ports, PUSCH-tp, ULmaxRank |
| > AntennaPorts | M | Value: 2,3,4,5. Determined by PUSCH-tp, DL-DMRS-config-type, DL-DMRS-config-max-len, Rank |
| > SRS Request | O | SRS Request Field, TS 38.212 Table 7.3.1.1.2-24 |
| > CSI Request | O | Value: 0,1,2,3,4,5,6, Determined by ReportTriggerSize in RRC message.See Configure Aperiodic Trigger section for the details. |
| > CBG Transmission Information | O | Value: 0, 2,4, 6,8. Determined by maxCodeBlockGroupPerTransportblock in RRC message, |
| > PTRS-DMRS | O | Value: 0,2. Determined by UL-PTRS-present, PUSCH-tp in RRC Message |
| > beta-offsetIndicator | O | Value: 0,2. 0 - if uci-on-PUSCH.dynamic = Not Configured 2 - otherwise |
| > DMRS Sequence Initialization | O | Value: 0,1.  0 - if PUSCH-tp=Disabled 1 - if PUSCH-tp=Enabled |
| > UL-SCH Indicator | O | Value: 0, 1. 0 - UL-SCH is not transmitted on the PUSCH 1 - UL-SCH is transmitted on the PUSCH |

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| FORMAT1_0 | M | Specifies the DCI format 1_0 [TS38.212 sec 7.3.1.2.1] |
| > Frequency Domain Allocation | M | Frequency Domain resources allocation |
| >> StartPRB | M | BWPStart: bandwidth part start RB index from reference CRB [TS38.213 sec 12] Value: 0->274 |
| >> NoOfPRBs | M | BWPSize: Bandwidth part size [TS38.213 sec12]. Number of contiguous PRBs allocated to the BWP Value: 1->275 |
| >TimeDomainAllocation | M | 4 bits as defined in Clause 6.1.2.1 of [6, TS 38.214] |
| >> StartSymbolNumber | M | OFDM symbol number |
| >> Number of Symbols | M | Number of Symbols |
| > VRB-PRBMapping | M | Value: 1, According to 38.212 Table 7.3.1.1.2-33      0: Non-Interleaved      1: Interleaved |
| > mcs | M | mcsIndex uint8_t MCS index [TS38.214, sec 6.1.4, & 5.1.3.1], Value: 0->31 |
| > harqProcessID | M | HARQ process number [TS38.212, sec 7.3.1.1], it should match value sent in DCI Value: 0 ->15 |
| > newDataIndicator | M | Indicates if this new data or a retransmission [TS38.212, sec 7.3.1.1]  Value: 0: retransmission 1: new data |
| > rvIndex | M | Redundancy version index [TS38.214, sec 6.1.4], it should match value sent in DCI Value: 0->3 |
| > DownlinkAssignmentIndex | M | Value:2 bits [TS38.214, sec 7.3.1.1.2] |
| > tpcCommand | M | TPC command for scheduled PUSCH, TS 38.213-table 7.1.1-1 |
| > PUCCHResourceIndicator | M | Given by higher layer parameter PUCCHResourceSet defined in PUCCH-Config, else as defined in TS 38.213 table -1. |
| > PDSCH-to-HARQ_feedback timing indicator | O | Value: 3 bits. maps to maps to k1= {1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8}. |

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| FORMAT1_1 | M | Specifies the DCI format 1_1 [TS38.212 sec 7.3.1.2.2] |
| > carrierIndicator | M | Indicator to the carrier, 0 or 3 bits, as defined in Clause 10.1 of [5, TS38.213] |
| > BWPIndicator | M | Bits-0,1,2. Determined by BandwidthPart-Config in higher layer message and 38.212 - Table 7.3.1.1.2-1 |
| > resourceAlloc | M | Resource Allocation Type [TS38.214, sec 6.1.2.2] 0: Type 0 1: Type 1 |
| > Frequency Domain Allocation | M | Frequency Domain resources allocation |
| >> StartPRB | M | BWPStart: bandwidth part start RB index from reference CRB [TS38.213 sec 12] Value: 0->274 |
| >> NoOfPRBs | M | BWPSize: Bandwidth part size [TS38.213 sec12]. Number of contiguous PRBs allocated to the BWP Value: 1->275 |
| >TimeDomainAllocation | M | 4 bits as defined in Clause 6.1.2.1 of [6, TS 38.214] |
| >> StartSymbolNumber | M | OFDM symbol number |
| >> Number of Symbols | M | Number of Symbols |
| > VRB-PRBMapping | M | Value: 1, According to 38.212 Table 7.3.1.1.2-33      0: Non-Interleaved      1: Interleaved |
| > mcs | M | mcsIndex uint8_t MCS index [TS38.214, sec 6.1.4, & 5.1.3.1], Value: 0->31, Applicable for transport block#1 and transport block#2 |
| > harqProcessID | M | HARQ process number [TS38.212, sec 7.3.1.1], it should match value sent in DCI Value: 0 ->15 |
| > newDataIndicator | M | Indicates if this new data or a retransmission [TS38.212, sec 7.3.1.1] . Applicable for transport block#1 and transport block#2 Value: 0: retransmission 1: new data |
| > rvIndex | M | Redundancy version index [TS38.214, sec 6.1.4], it should match value sent in DCI Value: 0->3. Applicable for transport block#1 and transport block#2 |
| > DownlinkAssignmentIndex | M | Value:2 bits [TS38.214, sec 7.3.1.1.2] |
| > tpcCommand | M | TPC command for scheduled PUSCH, TS 38.213-table 7.1.1-1 |
| >SecondtpcComand | O | 2 bits as defined in Clause 7.2.1 of [5, TS 38.213] if higher layer parameter SecondTPCFieldDCI-1-1 is configured; 0 bit otherwise |
| > PUCCHResourceIndicator | M | Given by higher layer parameter PUCCHResourceSet defined in PUCCH-Config, else as defined in TS 38.213 table -1. |
| > PDSCH-to-HARQ_feedback timing indicator | O | Value: 3 bits. maps to maps to k1= {1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8}. |
| > AntennaPorts | M | 4, 5, or 6 bits as defined by Tables 7.3.1.2.2-1/2/3/4 and Tables 7.3.1.2.2-1A/2A/3A/4A in TS 38.312. |
| > TransmissionConfigurationIndication | O | 0 bit if higher layer parameter tci-PresentInDCI is not enabled; otherwise 3 bits as defined in Clause 5.1.5 of [6, TS38.214]. The UE may expect to be indicated with one or two TCI states in a codepoint of the DCI field 'Transmission Configuration Indication' together with the DCI field “Time domain resource assignment’ indicating an entry in pdsch-TimeDomainAllocationList |

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| DL DCI | M | Specifies the DL DCI Coreset and Search Space for Scheduling DCI for Broadcast data. |
| > C-RNTI | M | The RNTI used for identifying the UE when receiving the PDU Value: 1 -> 65535 |
| > ScramblingID | M | For a UE-specific search space it equals the higherlayer parameter PDCCH-DMRS-Scrambling-ID if configured, otherwise it should be set to the phy cell ID. [TS38.211, sec 7.3.2.3] Value: 0->65535 |
| > ScramblingRNTI | M | For a UE-specific search space where PDCCH-DMRSScrambling-ID is configured This param equals the CRNTI. Otherwise, it should be set to 0. [TS38.211, sec 7.3.2.3] Value: 0 -> 65535 |
| > CCEIndex | M | CCE start Index used to send the DCI Value: 0->135 |
| > AggregationLevel | M | Aggregation level used [TS38.211, sec 7.3.2.1] Value: 1,2,4,8,16 |
| > BeamformingInfo | O |  |
| >> numPRGs | M | Number of PRGs spanning this allocation. Value: 1->275 |
| >> prgSize | M | Size in RBs of a precoding resource block group (PRG) – to which same precoding and digital beamforming gets applied. Value: 1->275 |
| >> digBFInterfaces | M | Number of STD ant ports (parallel streams) feeding into the digBF Value: 0->255 |
| >> PRGInfo | O |  |
| >>> PMidx | M | Index to precoding matrix (PM) pre-stored at cell configuration. Note: If precoding is not used this parameter should be set to 0. Value: 0->65535. |
| >>> beamIdx | M | For each digBFInterface, Index of the digital beam weight vector pre-stored at cell configuration. The vector maps this input port to output TXRUs. Value: 0->65535 |
| > TxPowerPDCCHInfo |  |  |
| >> beta_PDCCH_1_0 | M | PDCCH power value used for PDCCH Format 1_0 with CRC scrambled by SI-RNTI, PI-RNTI or RA-RNTI. This is ratio of SSB/PBCH EPRE to PDCCH and PDCCH DMRS EPRE [TS38.213, sec 4.1] Value :0->17 representing -8 to 8 dB in 1dB steps |
| >>PowerControlOffsetSS | M | PDCCH power value used for all other PDCCH Formats. This is ratio of SSB/PBCH block EPRE to PDCCH and PDCCH DMRS EPRE [TS38.214, sec 4.1] Values: 0: -3dB, 1: 0dB, 2: 3dB, 3: 6dB |
| > PDSCH Configuration |  | PDSCH configuration for DL SCH data. Refer Table 9-40 DL SCH Configuration. |

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| DL SCH | O | Conditional presence on Short Message Indicator value for broadcasting data. Present in case Short Message Indicator is 1 or 3; as defined in 38.212 Table 7.3.1.2.1-1. Mandatory for other DL data. |
| > pduBitmap | O | Bitmap indicating presence of optional PDUs Bit 0: pdschPtrs - Indicates PTRS included (FR2) Bit 1: cbgRetxCtrl (Present when CBG based retransmit is used) All other bits reserved |
| > C-RNTI | M | The RNTI used for identifying the UE when receiving the PDU Value: 1 -> 65535 |
| > pduIndex | M | PDU index incremented for each PDSCH PDU sent in TX control message. This is used to associate control information to data and is reset every slot. Value: 0 -> 65535 |
| > NrOfCodewords | M | Number of code words for this RNTI (UE) Value: 1 -> 2 |
| > CodewordInfo | M | For each codeword |
| >> targetCodeRate | M | Target coding rate [TS38.212 sec 5.4.2.1 and 38.214 sec 5.1.3.1]. This is the number of information bits per 1024 coded bits expressed in 0.1-bit units |
| >>qamModOrder | M | QAM modulation [TS38.212 sec 5.4.2.1 and 38.214 sec 5.1.3.1] Value: 2,4,6,8 |
| >>mcsIndex | M | MCS index [TS38.214, sec 5.1.3.1], should match value sent in DCI Value: 0->31 |
| >> mcsTable | M | MCS-Table-PDSCH [TS38.214, sec 5.1.3.1] 0: notqam256 1: qam256 2: qam64LowSE |
| >> rvIndex | M | Redundancy version index [TS38.212, Table 5.4.2.1-2 and 38.214, Table 5.1.2.1-2], should match value sent in DCI Value: 0->3 |
| >> TBSize | M | Transmit block size (in bytes) [TS38.214 sec 5.1.3.2] Value: 0->65535 |
| > dataScramblingId | O | dataScramblingIdentityPdsch [TS38.211, sec 7.3.1.1] It equals the higher-layer parameter dataScramblingIdentityPDSCH [TS 38.331 PDSCH-Config] if configured and the RNTI equals the C-RNTI, otherwise L2 needs to set it to physical cell id. Value: 0->65535 |
| > nrOfLayers | M | Number of layers [TS38.211, sec 7.3.1.3] Value: 1->8 |
| > transmissionScheme | M | PDSCH transmission schemes [TS38.214, sec 5.1.1] only one transmission scheme (transmission scheme 1) for 0: Up to 8 transmission layers |
| > refPoint | M | Reference point for PDSCH DMRS "k" - used for tone mapping [TS38.211, sec 7.4.1.1.2] Resource block bundles [TS38.211, sec 7.3.1.6].  Value: 0 -> 1 If 0, the 0-reference point for PDSCH DMRS is at Point A [TS38.211 sec 4.4.4.2]. Resource block bundles generated per sub-bullets 2 and 3 in [TS38.211, sec 7.3.1.6]. For sub-bullet 2, the start of bandwidth part must be set to the start of actual bandwidth part +NstartCORESET and the bandwidth of the bandwidth part must be set to the bandwidth of the initial bandwidth part. If 1, the DMRS reference point is at the lowest VRB/PRB of the allocation. Resource block bundles generated per sub-bullets 1 [TS38.211, sec 7.3.1.6] |
| > DMRS | M |  |
| >> dlDmrsSymbPos | M | DMRS symbol positions [TS38.211, sec 7.4.1.1.2 and Tables 7.4.1.1.2-3 and 7.4.1.1.2-4] Bitmap occupying the 14 LSBs with:  bit 0: first symbol  and for each bit  0: no DMRS 1: DMRS |
| >> dmrsConfigType | O | DL DMRS config type [TS38.211, sec 7.4.1.1.2] given by the higher-layer parameter [TS 38.331 DMRS-DownlinkConfig: dmrs-Type] 0: type 1 1: type 2 |
| >> dlDmrsScramblingId | O | DL-DMRS-Scrambling-ID [TS38.211, sec 7.4.1.1.2 ] If provided by the higher-layer [ TS 38.331, DMRS-DownlinkConfig: scramblingID0,  scramblingID1] and the PDSCH is scheduled by PDCCH with CRC scrambled by C-RNTI or CS-RNTI, otherwise, L2 should set this to physical cell id. Value: 0->65535 |
| >> SCID | M | DMRS sequence initialization [TS38.211, sec 7.4.1.1.2]. Should match what is sent in DCI 1_1, otherwise set to 0. Value: 0->1 |
| >> numDmrsCdmGrps NoData | O | Number of DM-RS CDM groups without data [TS38.212 sec 7.3.1.2.2] [TS38.214 Table 4.1-1] it determines the ratio of PDSCH EPRE to DM-RS EPRE. Value: 1->3 |
| >> dmrsPorts | M | DMRS ports. [TS38.212 7.3.1.2.2] provides description between DCI 1-1 content and DMRS ports. Bitmap occupying the 11 LSBs with: bit 0: antenna port 1000 bit 11: antenna port 1011 and for each bit 0: DMRS port not used 1: DMRS port used |
| >> MappingType | M | Selection of the DMRS type to be used for DL. Configuration type 1 or configuration type 2 as given by the higher-layer parameter dmrs-Type. |
| >> NumberOfDMRSSymbols | O | The maximum number of OFDM symbols for DL front loaded DMRS data [TS38.212 sec 7.4.1.1.2], provided by higher-layer [TS 38.331 DMRS-DownlinkConfig:  maxLength] len1 corresponds to value 1. len2 corresponds to value 2. If the field is absent, the UE applies value len1. If set to len2, the UE determines the actual number of DM-RS symbols by the associated DCI. |
| >> DMRSAddPostion | O | Position for additional DM-RS in DL, see Tables 7.4.1.1.2-3 and 7.4.1.1.2-4 in TS 38.211 [16]. |
| >PDSCHFrequencyAllocation | M | PDSCH resource allocation in frequency domain [TS38.214, sec 5.1.2.2] |
| >> resourceAlloc | M | Resource Allocation Type [TS38.214, sec 5.1.2.2]  0: Type 0 1: Type 1 |
| >> rbBitmap | O | Conditionally included for resource alloc type 0. TS 38.212 V15.0.x, 7.3.1.2.2 bitmap of RBs, 273 rounded up to multiple of 32. This bitmap is in units of VRBs. LSB of byte 0 of the bitmap represents the first RB of the bwp |
| >> rbStart | O | Conditionally included for resource allocation type 1. [TS38.214, sec 5.1.2.2.2] The number of resource block within for this PDSCH.  Value: 1->275 |
| >> rbSize | O | Conditionally included for resource allocation type 1. [TS38.214, sec 5.1.2.2.2] The number of resource block within for this PDSCH. Value: 1->275 |
| >> VRBtoPRBMapping | O | VRB-to-PRB-mapping [TS38.211, sec 7.3.1.6] 0: non-interleaved 1: interleaved with RB size 2 2: Interleaved with RB size 4 |
| > PDSCHTimeAllocation | M | Resource Allocation in time domain [TS38.214, sec 5.1.2.1] |
| >> StartSymbolIndex | M | Start symbol index of PDSCH mapping from the start of the slot, S. [TS38.214, Table 5.1.2.1-1]  Value: 0->13 |
| >> NrOfSymbols | M | PDSCH duration in symbols, L [TS38.214, Table 5.1.2.1-1] Value: 1->14 |
| > beamPDSCHInfo | O | Beamforming information in PDSCH |
| >> numPRGs | O | Number of PRGs spanning this allocation. Value: 1->275 |
| >> prgSize | O | Size in RBs of a precoding resource block group (PRG) – to which same precoding and digital beamforming gets applied. Value: 1->275 |
| >> digBFInterfaces | O | Number of STD ant ports (parallel streams) feeding into the digBF Value: 0->255 |
| >> prgInfo | O | For number of PRGs |
| >>> PMidx | O | Index to precoding matrix (PM) pre-stored at cell configuration. Note: If precoding is not used this parameter should be set to 0. Value: 0->65535. |
| >>>> beamIdx | O | For each digBFInterface, Index of the digital beam weight vector pre-stored at cell configuration. The vector maps this input port to output TXRUs. Value: 0->65535 |
| > TxPDSCHPower | M | Tx Power info |
| >> powerControlOffset | M | Ratio of PDSCH EPRE to NZP CSI-RSEPRE [TS38.214, sec 5.2.2.3.1] Value :0->23 representing -8 to 15 dB in 1dB steps, as given by higher layer [TS 38.331, NZP-CSI-RS-Resource: powerControlOffset] |
| >> powerControlOffsetSS | O | Ratio of SSB/PBCH block EPRE to NZP CSI-RS EPRES [TS38.214, sec 5.2.2.3.1] Values: 0: -3dB, 1: 0dB, 2: 3dB, 3: 6dB  as given by higher layer [TS 38.331,  NZP-CSI-RS-Resource:  powerControlOffsetSS ] |

Table 9-44 DL-SCH Configuration

### UL Scheduling Information

Scheduler provides Scheduled information to MAC to enable MAC to form the UL_TTI.request towards L1. This is akin to a reception request towards L1 to allow L1 to receive scheduled PUSCH, PUCCH, and SRS data for a specific UE.

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell. 2-byte integer allocated by DU |
| CRNTI | M | See TS 38.331 RNTI-Value |
| Timing Information | M | Timing information for this particular message. |
| Data Type | M | {PUSCH, PUSCH_UCI, UCI, SRS, PRACH} |
| PUSCH Information | O | Present if Data Type == PUSCH |
| >HARQ Process ID | M | 4 bits; identifies the HARQ Process being used for this transmission |
| >Frequency Domain Allocation | M | Frequency Domain resource assignment; as defined in 38.214 |
| >>resource allocation type | M | {Type-0, Type-1} from 38.214 |
| >>resourceAllocationType-0 | O | Conditional presence on the resource allocation type value |
| >>>rbBitMap | M | Resource allocation Type-0-bit map |
| >>resourceAllocationType-1 | O | Conditional presence on the resource allocation type value |
| >>>Start RB | M | Starting Resource Block for the allocation |
| >>>Number of RBs | M | Number of allocated Resource Blocks |
| >Time Domain Allocation | M | Specifies the time domain allocation for this transmission |
| >>Start Symbol Index | M | Specifies the index of the starting symbol of the allocation {0…13} |
| >>Number of Symbols | M | Specifies the number of contiguous symbols allocated for this transmission {1…14} |
| >TB | M | Transport Block # 1 |
| >>MCS | M | {0…31} per 38.214 |
| >>NDI | M | Set if New Transmission |
| >>RV | M | Redundancy Version {0, 2, 3, 1} per 38.212 |
| >>TB Size | M | Transport Block Size in Bytes {0…65535} |
| PUSCH_UCI | O | Present if Data Type == PUSCH_UCI |
| >HARQ Process ID | M | 4 bits; identifies the HARQ Process being used for this transmission |
| >Frequency Domain Allocation | M | Frequency Domain resource assignment; as defined in 38.214 |
| >>resource allocation type | M | {Type-0, Type-1} 38.214 |
| >>resourceAllocationType-0 | O | Conditional presence on the resource allocation type value |
| >>>rbBitMap | M | Resource allocation Type-0-bit map |
| >>resourceAllocationType-1 | O | Conditional presence on the resource allocation type value |
| >>>Start RB | M | Starting Resource Block for the allocation |
| >>>Number of RBs | M | Number of allocated Resource Blocks |
| >Time Domain Allocation | M | Specifies the time domain allocation for this transmission |
| >>Start Symbol Index | M | Specifies the index of the starting symbol of the allocation {0…13} |
| >>Number of Symbols | M | Specifies the number of contiguous symbols allocated for this transmission {1…14} |
| >TB | M | Transport Block # 1 |
| >>MCS | M | {0…31} per 38.214 |
| >>NDI | M | Set if New Transmission |
| >>RV | M | Redundancy Version {0, 2, 3, 1} per 38.212 |
| >>TB Size | M | Transport Block Size in Bytes {0…65535} |
| >HARQ_INFO | O | Present if HARQ feedback is expected and is multiplexed along with PUSCH |
| >>HARQ_Bits | M | Number of HARQ ACK Bits expected |
| >>betaOffsetHarqACK | M | Beta Offset for HARQ-ACK per 38.212 |
| >CSI_INFO | O | Present if CSI feedback is expected and is multiplexed along with PUSCH |
| >>csiBits | M | Number of CSI bits |
| >>betaOffsetCSI | M | Beta Offset for CSI per 38.212 |
| UCI | O | Present if Data Type == UCI |
| >Frequency Domain allocation | M | Frequency domain location of PUCCH |
| >>Start RB | M | Starting Resource Block for the allocation |
| >>Number of RBs | M | Number of allocated Resource Blocks |
| >Time Domain Allocation | M | Specifies the time domain allocation for this transmission |
| >>Start Symbol Index | M | Specifies the index of the starting symbol of the allocation {0…13} |
| >>Number of Symbols | M | Specifies the number of contiguous symbols allocated for this transmission {1…2} for format 0, 2 {4…14} for format 1, 3, 4 |
| >SR Flag | O | Set if SR is expected in the scheduled slot |
| >HARQ_INFO | O | Present if HARQ feedback is expected and is multiplexed along with PUSCH |
| >>HARQ_Bits | M | Number of HARQ ACK Bits expected |
| >CSI_INFO | O | Present if CSI feedback is expected and is multiplexed along with PUSCH |
| >>csiBits | M | Number of CSI bits |
| > beamPUSCHInfo | O | Beamforming information in PUSCH |
| >> numPRGs | O | Number of PRGs spanning this allocation. Value: 1->275 |
| >> prgSize | O | Size in RBs of a precoding resource block group (PRG) – to which same precoding and digital beamforming gets applied. Value: 1->275 |
| >> digBFInterfaces | O | Number of STD ant ports (parallel streams) feeding into the digBF Value: 0->255 |
| >> prgInfo | O | For number of PRGs |
| >>> PMidx | O | Index to precoding matrix (PM) pre-stored at cell configuration. Note: If precoding is not used this parameter should be set to 0. Value: 0->65535. |
| >>>> beamIdx | O | For each digBFInterface, Index of the digital beam weight vector pre-stored at cell configuration. The vector maps this input port to output TXRUs. Value: 0->65535 |
| >pucchFormat | M | PUCCH format Value: 0 -> 2 0: PUCCH Format2 1: PUCCH Format3 2: PUCCH Format4 |
| >intraFreqHop | M | Frequency hopping for a PUCCH resource [38.211, Sec  6.3.2.2.1]. Valid for all formats Value: 0: disabled 1: enabled |
| >secondPrbHop | M | Index of the first PRB after frequency hopping. Valid for all formats. Value:0->274 |
| >initialCyclicShift | M | Initial cyclic shift (M0) used as part of frequency.  hopping. [38.213, sec 9.2.1 and 38.211, sec  6.3.2.2.2]. Valid for formats 0, 1, 3 and 4 Value: 0->11 |
| >occLen | M | The length of an orthogonal cover code. [38.211, sec  6.3.2.6.3]. Valid for format 4. Value: 2 or 4 |
| >occIdx | M | An index of an orthogonal cover code. [38.211, sec  6.3.2.6.3]. Valid for format 4. Value: 0->3 |
| >timeDomOCC | M | An index of an orthogonal cover code [38.211, sec  6.3.2.4.1]. Valid for format 1. Value: 0->6 |
| >addDmrsFlag | M | Flag for additional DMRS. [38.213, sec 9.2.2]. Valid for formats 3 and 4. Value:  0 = disabled 1 = enabled |
| > pi2BPSK | M | When enabled, indicates that the UE uses pi/2 BPSK for  UCI symbols instead of QPSK for PUCCH.  [TS 38.213, sec 9.2.5] Value: 0: disabled, 1: enabled |
| PRACH Information | M | Present if Data Type == PRACH |
| >numPrachOcas | M |  |
| >prachFormat | M |  |
| >numRa | M |  |
| >prachStartSymb | M |  |

### RAR Information

This API is invoked by scheduler to inform MAC of uplink scheduling and Msg3 scheduling information.

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell. 2-byte integer allocated by DU |
| Timing Information | M | Timing information for this message. |
| RA_RNTI | M | RA_RNTI corresponding to the received RACH |
| Number of Preambles | M | Number of Preambles that were received for the RA_RNTI |
| >RAPID | M | Preamble ID |
| >Timing Advance Value | M | Initial Timing Advance |
| >Start RB | M | Starting Resource Block for the PUSCH Allocation |
| >Number of RBs | M | Number of allocated Resource Blocks for the PUSCH Allocation |
| >Temporary CRNTI | M | Temporary CRNTI allocated by Scheduler |

### Downlink Control Channel Information

Scheduler provides DCI scheduling information for a given TTI on PDCCH. Scheduling information contains Coreset and Search Space resource allocation. MAC is supposed to prepare the DCI payload with the Downlink control channel information and DL/UL Scheduling Information Frequency and Time Domain allocation for the UE.

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Frame Number | M | Time indication. Frame Number where DCI is scheduled |
| Slot Number | M | Time indication. Slot Number where DCI is scheduled |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell. 2-byte integer allocated by DU |
| CRNTI | M | See TS 38.331 RNTI-Value |
| Frequency Domain Resources | M | Frequency domain resources for the CORESET as defined in 38.211 section 7.3.2.2 |
| Duration | M | time duration of the CORESET in number of symbols as defined in 38.211 section 7.3.2.2 |
| CCE REG Mapping type | M | {interleaved, nonInterleaved}. as defined in 38.211 section 7.3.2.2 |
| >interleaved | O | Conditional presence on the CCE REG Mapping type value |
| >> reg Bundle Size | M | {2, 3, 6}.  Size of REG Bundles as defined in 38.211 section 7.3.2.2 |
| >>interleaver Size | M | {2, 3, 6}.  Interleaver Size as defined in 38.211 section 7.3.2.2 |
| >>shift Index | M | shiftIndex or Physical Cell Id as defined in 38.211 section 7.3.2.2 |
| Search Space Start Symbol | M | first symbol for PDCCH monitoring in the slot; as defined in 38.213 section 10.1. |
| CCE Index | M | First CCE index in the aggregation level as defined in 38.211 section 7.3.2.2 |
| Aggregation Level | M | {1,2,4,8,16}. as defined in 38.213 Table 10.1-1 |
| Precoder Granularity | M | {sameAsRegBundle, allContigousRBs}; as defined in 38.211 section 7.3.2.2 |
| PDCCH Power Offset | M | -8 to 8 dB in 1dB steps. SSB/PBCH EPRE to PDCCH and PDCCH DMRS EPRE; as defined in 38.213 section 4.1 |
| DCI Format type | M | {format_0_0, format_0_1, format_1_0, format_1_1}; as defined in 38.212 section 7.3.1 |
| > Format_1_0 | O | Conditional presence on the DCI Format type value |
| >>VRB to PRB Mapping | M | Physical resource block Bundling as defined in 38.214 section 5.1.2.3 |
| >>DAI | M | Downlink Assignment Index as defined in as defined in 38.213 section 9.1.2 |
| >> TPC Command | M | PUCCH TPC as defined in 38.213 section 7.2.1 |
| >>PUCCH Resource Indicator | M | Resource for reporting HARQ-ACK as defined in 38.213 section 9.2.3 |
| >> PDSCH to Harq Feedback Timing Indicaor | M | Timing for reporting HARQ-ACK as defined in 38.213 section 9.2.3 |
| > Format_1_1 | O | Conditional presence on the DCI Format type value |
| >>Carrier Indicator | O | Conditional presence on CrossCarrierSchedulingConfig support; as defined in 38.213 section 10.1 |
| >>BWP Indicator | O | Conditional presence on dedicated DL BWP Config; as defined in 38.213 section 12 |
| >>VRB to PRB Mapping | O | Conditional presence on RAT type and interleaved VRB-to-PRB mapping configuration.Physical resource block Bundling as defined in 38.214 section 5.1.2.3 |
| >>PRB bundling size indicator | O | Conditional presence on prb-BundlingType; as defined in 38.214 section 5.1.2.3 |
| >> Rate Matching Indicator | O | Conditional presence on rateMatchPatternGroup Config; as defined in 38.214 section 5.1.4.1 |
| >>ZP CSI-RS trigger | O | Conditional presence on zp-CSI-RS-Resource Config; as defined in 38.214 section 5.1.4.2 |
| >>DAI | O | Downlink Assignment Index as defined in as defined in 38.213 section 9.1.2 |
| >> TPC Command | M | PUCCH TPC as defined in 38.213 section 7.2.1 |
| >>PUCCH Resource Indicator | M | Resource for reporting HARQ-ACK as defined in 38.213 section 9.2.3 |
| >> PDSCH to HARQ Feedback Timing Indicator | O | Timing for reporting HARQ-ACK as defined in 38.213 section 9.2.3 |
| >> Transmission configuration indication | O | Conditional presence on tci-PresentInDCI Config as defined in 38.214 section 5.1.5 |
| >> SRS Request | M | Request for SRS Reporting as defined in 38.212 Table 7.3.1.1.2-24 |
| >>CBG transmission information | O | Conditional presence on Max CBG per TB config as defined in 38.214 section 5.1.7 |
| >>CBG flushing out information | O | Conditional presence on CBG Flush Indicator config as defined in 38.214 section 5.1.7 |
| >>DMRS sequence initialization | M | DM-RS sequence initialization field as defined in 38.211 section 7.4.1.1.1 |
| > Format_0_0 | O | Conditional presence on the DCI Format type value |
| >>PUSCH Hopping | O | Conditional presence on Frequency Hopping offset Config; as defined in 38.214 section 6.3 |
| >>Frequency Hopping Flag | M | PUSCH Frequency Hopping as defined in 38.214 section 6.3 |
| >>TPC Command | M | PUSCH TPC value as defined in 38.213 section 7.1 |
| >>UL/SUL Indicator | O | Conditional Presence based on supplementaryUplink; as defined in 38.331 ServingCellConfig |
| > Format_0_1 | O | Conditional presence on the DCI Format type value |
| >>Carrier Indicator | O | Conditional presence on Cross Carrier Scheduling Config support; as defined in 38.213 section 10.1 |
| >>UL/SUL Indicator | O | Conditional Presence based on supplementaryUplink; as defined in 38.331 ServingCellConfig |
| >>BWP Indicator | O | Conditional presence on dedicated UL BWP Config; as defined in 38.213 section 12 |
| >>PUSCH Hopping | O | Conditional presence for RAT1 on Frequency Hopping offset Config; as defined in 38.214 section 6.3 |
| >>Frequency Hopping Flag | O | Conditional presence for RAT1 as defined in 38.214 section 6.3 |
| >>TPC Command | M | PUSCH TPC value as defined in 38.213 section 7.1 |
| >>SRS Resource Indicator | O | Conditional presence on SRS Resource Config; as defined in 38.331 PUSCH-Config and 38.212 Table 7.3.1.1.2- 28 to 7.3.1.1.2-32 |
| >>Precoding Information and Number of Layers | O | Conditional presence on txConfig and antenna ports configuration; as defined in 38.331 PUSCH-Config and 38.212 Table 7.3.1.1.2- 2 to 7.3.1.1.2-5 |
| >> SRS Request | M | Request for SRS Reporting as defined in 38.212 Table 7.3.1.1.2-24 |
| >>CSI request | O | Conditional presence on report Trigger Size configuration as defined in 38.331 CSI-MeasConfig |
| >>CBG transmission information | O | Conditional presence on Max CBG per TB config as defined in 38.214 section 5.1.7 |
| >>Beta Offset Indicator | O | Conditional presence on betaOffsets configuration as defined in 38.213 |
| >>DMRS Sequence Initialization | O | Conditional presence on transform Precoding; as defined in 38.211 section 6.4.1.1.1 |
| >>UL SCH Indicator | M | UL SCH transmitted on PUSCH or not. |

### Downlink Broadcast Allocation

Scheduler provides DCI and DL data scheduling information for SSB and System Information Block1 and Other System Information for a given TTI for Broadcast Channel. MAC forms the SSB and SI payload.

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell. 2-byte integer allocated by DU |
| Frame Number | M | Time indication. Frame Number where Broadcast data is scheduled |
| Slot Number | M | Time indication. Slot Number where Broadcast data is scheduled |
| SSB Index | M | Index of SSB corresponding to the Broadcast data; For SIB1 as defined in 38.213 section 13. For other SI as defined in 38.331 section 5.2.2.3.2 |
| DL DCI | O | Specifies the DL DCI Coreset and Search Space for Scheduling DCI for Broadcast data. |
| DL SCH | O | Specifies the DL PDSCH for Broadcast data. |
| >System information indicator | M | {0 – 1}. Specifies SIB1 or SI message; as defined in 38.212 Table 7.3.1.2.1-2 |
| >SI Content | M | Byte Array [MAX_BYTES_FOR_SI]; this carries the ASN.1 encoded System Information Messages that Scheduler wants to transmit to the UE; as defined in 38.331 SIB1 or SystemInformation. Maximum TB size is 2976 bytes as per 38.214 section 5.1.3.2 |
| SSB Information | O | Carries the SSB Information |
| >ssbSubcarrierOffset | M | kssb as per 38.211 |
| >ssbOffsetPointA | M | Offset of the lowest RB per 38.211 |

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| DL DCI | M | Specifies the DL DCI Coreset and Search Space for Scheduling DCI for Broadcast data. |
| >Frequency Domain Resources | M | Frequency domain resources for the CORESET as defined in 38.211 section 7.3.2.2 |
| >duration | M | time duration of the CORESET in number of symbols as defined in 38.211 section 7.3.2.2 |
| >CCE REG Mapping type | M | {interleaved, nonInterleaved}. For SIB1 only interleaved mapping type is applicable as defined in 38.211 section 7.3.2.2 |
| >>interleaved | O | Conditional presence on the CCE REG Mapping type value |
| >>> reg Bundle Size | M | {2, 3, 6}.  Size of REG Bundles as defined in 38.211 section 7.3.2.2 |
| >>>interleaver Size | M | {2, 3, 6}.  Interleaver Size as defined in 38.211 section 7.3.2.2 |
| >>>shift Index | M | shiftIndex or Physical Cell Id as defined in 38.211 section 7.3.2.2 |
| >Search Space Start Symbol | M | monitoringSymbolsWithinSlot. For SIB1 as defined in 38.213 section 13. For other SI as defined in 38.213 section 10.1. |
| > CCE Index | M | First CCE index in the aggregation level as defined in 38.211 section 7.3.2.2 |
| >Aggregation Level | M | {4,8,16}. as defined in 38.213 Table 10.1-1 |
| > Precoder Granularity | M | {sameAsRegBundle, allContigousRBs} as defined in 38.211 section 7.3.2.2 |
| >pdcch Power Offset | M | -8 to 8 dB in 1dB steps. SSB/PBCH EPRE to PDCCH and PDCCH DMRS EPRE; as defined in 38.213 section 4.1 |

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| DL SCH | O | Conditional presence on Short Message Indicator value. Present in case Short Message Indicator is 1 or 3; as defined in 38.212 Table 7.3.1.2.1-1 |
| >Frequency Domain Allocation | M | RAT1 Frequency Domain resource assignment; as defined in 38.214 section 5.1.2.2.2 |
| >>Start RB | M | Starting Resource Block for the allocation |
| >>Number of RBs | M | Number of allocated Resource Blocks |
| >Time Domain Allocation | M | Specifies the time domain allocation for this transmission; as defined in 38.214 section 5.1.2.1 |
| >>Mapping Type | M | {typeA, typeB} |
| >>Start Symbol Index | M | Specifies the index of the starting symbol of the allocation {0…13} |
| >>Number of Symbols | M | Specifies the number of contiguous symbols allocated for this transmission {1…14} |
| >DMRS Config | M | Specifies downlink demodulation reference signals for PDSCH; as defined in 38.214 section 5.1.6.2 |
| >>DMRS Type | M | DMRS type to be used for DL |
| >>DMRS Additional Pos | M | Position for additional DM-RS in DL |
| >>Max Length | M | The maximum number of OFDM symbols for DL front loaded DMRS |
| >VRB-to-PRB mapping | M | Specifies Non-Interleaved or Interleaved VRB-to-PRB mapping; as defined in 38.214 section 5.1.2.3. |
| >TB | M | Transport Block as defined in 38.214 section 5.1.3. |
| >>MCS | M | {0…9} |
| >>TB Size | M | Transport Block Size in Bytes |
| >TB Scaling | M | Scaling factor {0 – 2} as defined in 38.214 section 5.1.3.2. |

### Downlink Paging Allocation

Scheduler provides DCI and optionally DL data scheduling information for Paging Message for given TTI for Paging Channel.

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell. 2-byte integer allocated by DU |
| Frame Number | M | Time indication. Frame Number where Paging data is scheduled |
| Slot Number | M | Time indication. Slot Number where Paging data is scheduled |
| SSB Index | M | Index of SSB corresponding to the Paging data; as defined in 38.304 section 7.1 |
| Short Message Indicator | M | {0-3}; as defined in 38.212 Table 7.3.1.2.1-1: Short Message indicator |
| Short Message | O | 8 bits; as defined in 38.331 section 6.5. Conditional presence on Short Message Indicator value |
| DL DCI | M | Specifies the DL DCI Coreset and Search Space for Scheduling DCI for Paging data. |
| >Frequency Domain Resources | M | Frequency domain resources for the CORESET as defined in 38.211 section 7.3.2.2 |
| >Duration | M | time duration of the CORESET in number of symbols as defined in 38.211 section 7.3.2.2 |
| >CCE REG Mapping type | M | {interleaved, nonInterleaved}; as defined in 38.211 section 7.3.2.2 |
| >>interleaved | O | Conditional presence on the CCE REG Mapping type value |
| >>> reg Bundle Size | M | {2, 3, 6}.  Size of REG Bundles as defined in 38.211 section 7.3.2.2 |
| >>>interleaver Size | M | {2, 3, 6}.  Interleaver Size as defined in 38.211 section 7.3.2.2 |
| >>>shift Index | M | shiftIndex or Physical Cell Id as defined in 38.211 section 7.3.2.2 |
| >Search Space Start Symbol | M | monitoringSymbolsWithinSlot as defined in 38.213 section 10.1. |
| > CCE Index | M | First CCE index in the aggregation level as defined in 38.211 section 7.3.2.2 |
| >Aggregation Level | M | {4,8,16}. as defined in 38.213 Table 10.1-1 |
| > Precoder Granularity | M | {sameAsRegBundle, allContigousRBs} as defined in 38.211 section 7.3.2.2 |
| >PDCCH Power Offset | M | -8 to 8 dB in 1dB steps. SSB/PBCH EPRE to PDCCH and PDCCH DMRS EPRE; as defined in 38.213 section 4.1 |
| DL SCH | O | Conditional presence on Short Message Indicator value. Present in case Short Message Indicator is 1 or 3; as defined in 38.212 Table 7.3.1.2.1-1 |
| >Frequency Domain Allocation | M | RAT1 Frequency Domain resource assignment; as defined in 38.214 section 5.1.2.2.2 |
| >>Start RB | M | Starting Resource Block for the allocation |
| >>Number of RBs | M | Number of allocated Resource Blocks |
| >Time Domain Allocation | M | Specifies the time domain allocation for this transmission; as defined in 38.214 section 5.1.2.1 |
| >>Mapping Type | M | {typeA, typeB} |
| >>Start Symbol Index | M | Specifies the index of the starting symbol of the allocation {0…13} |
| >>Number of Symbols | M | Specifies the number of contiguous symbols allocated for this transmission {1…14} |
| >DMRS Config | M | Specifies downlink demodulation reference signals for PDSCH; as defined in 38.214 section 5.1.6.2 |
| >>DMRS Type | M | DMRS type to be used for DL |
| >>DMRS Additional Pos | M | Position for additional DM-RS in DL |
| >>Max Length | M | The maximum number of OFDM symbols for DL front loaded DMRS |
| >VRB-to-PRB mapping | M | Specifies Non-Interleaved or Interleaved VRB-to-PRB mapping; as defined in 38.214 section 5.1.2.3. |
| >TB | M | Transport Block as defined in 38.214 section 5.1.3. |
| >>MCS | M | {0…9} |
| >>TB Size | M | Transport Block Size in Bytes |
| >TB Scaling | M | Scaling factor {0 – 2} as defined in 38.214 section 5.1.3.2. |
| >Paging Content | M | Byte Array [MAX_BYTES_FOR_PAGING]; this carries the ASN.1 encoded Paging Messages that Scheduler wants to transmit to the UE’s as defined in 38.331 Paging |

### Downlink HARQ Release

Scheduler informs MAC to release the HARQ process when HARQ feedback is failure and max transmission Per Haq has reached.

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell. 2-byte integer allocated by DU |
| Num of UEs | M | Number of UEs whose Harq processes must be released |
| Ue HarqInfo |  |  |
| > CRNTI | M | UE Identifier |
| > Harq Process ID | M |  |

### F1AP handler – MAC Interface

The following section captures the interface APIs between F1AP handler and MAC:

| Direction | Message/API | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| F1AP handler to MAC | Cell Start | This API is used to start the Cell at MAC, i.e., to start broadcasting the system information. MAC starts the cell at L1 before sending the confirmation to the F1AP handler. |
| F1AP handler to MAC | Cell Stop | This API is used to stop the broadcast at MAC, i.e., to stop broadcasting the system information. MAC stops the cell at L1 before sending the confirmation to the F1AP handler. MAC may also delete the cell configuration at SCH in which case it needs to configure the SCH with stored cell configuration before the start of the cell. |

Note: UE State Manager in the F1AP module interfacing with MAC will be the module interacting with MAC for the following APIs.

| Direction | Message/API | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| F1AP handler to MAC | UE Create Request | This API adds the UE information, such as, BWP, channel information, etc, at MAC. |
| MAC to F1AP handler | UE Create Response | This API is used to acknowledge the status of the UE Create Request. |
| F1AP handler to MAC | UE Reconfiguration Request | This API is used to reconfigure the UE information, such as, BWP, channel information, etc, at MAC. MAC returns an error if the UE has not been already added at MAC. |
| MAC to F1AP handler | UE Reconfiguration Response | This API is used to acknowledge the status of the UE Reconfiguration Response. |
| F1AP handler to MAC | UE Delete Request | This API is used to delete the dedicated UE information at MAC |
| MAC to F1AP handler | UE Delete Response | This API is used to acknowledge the status of the UE Delete Request. |
| F1AP handler to MAC | RACH Resource Request | This API is used to get the CRNTI, preamble information from MAC for Contention Free Random Access |
| F1AP handler to MAC | RACH Resource Release | This API is used to release the Contention Free RACH Resources at MAC |
| F1AP handler to MAC | UE Reset Request | This API is used to reset the UE associated dynamic information (eg: HARQ processes) and release the UL Control channels (PUCCH, SRS) at MAC. MAC may use invoke the API at SCH to release the UE associated resources, as above, at the SCH. |
| MAC to F1AP handler | UE Reset Response | This API is used to ack the UE context reset. |
| MAC to F1AP handler | UE Sync Status Indication | This API is sent from MAC to F1AP to inform the sync status of UE at MAC. |

Note: UE State Manager in the F1AP module interfacing with MAC

| Direction | Message/API | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| MAC to F1AP handler | UL CCCH Indication | This API is sent from MAC to F1AP to pass the UL CCCH message received from UE. Cell id where CCCH message is received is sent to F1AP. This API is required for SA mode only |
| F1AP handler to MAC | DL CCCH Indication | This API is sent from F1AP to MAC to send the DL CCCH message to UE with Cell id on which the message is to be transmitted. This API is required for SA mode only. |
| F1AP handler to MAC | DL PCCH Indication | This API is sent from F1AP to MAC to broadcast the DL PCCH message in the cell. This API is required for SA mode only. |
| F1AP handler to MAC | DL Broadcast Request | This API is sent from F1AP to MAC the SIB messages in the cell. |

The detailed description of the APIs is below:

### Cell Start

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell |
| Frame Number | O | Start time |
| Slot Number | O | Start time |

### Cell Stop

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell |
| Frame Number | O | Stop time |
| Slot Number | O | Stop time |

DUAPP send this to MAC to delete a cell, this API is invoked.

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Debug Time Info | O | This is an optional IE and may be provided on availability |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell. 2-byte integer allocated by DU |

### Cell Delete Response

This API is invoked by scheduler to respond to a Cell Deletion request.

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell. 2-byte integer allocated by DU |
| Response | M | Response that maybe used to identify failure/success OK – Success NOK – Failure |
| Error Cause | O | If Response == NOK This field describes the cause of the failure. Value: ENUM {SUCCESSFUL, CELLID_INVALID, UEID_INVALID, RESOURCE_UNAVAILABLE |

Slice Configuration Request is sent to configure the MAC/Scheduler with the rRMPolicyRatio for each of the slices supported in the cell.

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| RRMPolicyList |  | List of RRM policies received from O1. |
| ResourceType |  | For ODU, only PRB will be relevant resource to apply RRM policy on. Value: PRB, DRB, RRC_CONNECTED_USERS. |
| RRMPolicyMemberList |  | This defines the list of S-NSSAIs and  PLMN belonging to the cell. This is to be included if network slicing is supported. |
| > S-NSSAI | M | Identification of the slice. |
| >PLMN | M |  |
| RRMPolicyRatio | M | rRMPolicy for the slice if network slicing feature is supported. This policy is for the resource type “PRB” and applicable to gNB-DU. The other resource type “ DRB” and “RRCConnected” are applicable to gNB-CU. |
| >> rRMPolicyMaxRatio | uint8_t | This attribute specifies the maximum percentage of radio resource that can be used by the associated rRMPolicyMemberList/SNSSAI. The maximum percentage of radio resource include at least one of the shared resources, prioritized resources and dedicated resources. The sum of the rRMPolicyMaxRatio values assigned to all slices can be greater than 100. |
| >> rRMPolicyMinRatio | uint8_t | This attribute specifies the minimum percentage of radio resources that can be used by the associated rRMPolicyMemberList/sNSSAI. The minimum percentage of radio resources including at least one of prioritized resources and dedicated resources. The sum of the rRMPolicyMinRatio values assigned to all slices be less than or equal to100. |
| >> rRMPolicyDedicatedRatio | uint8_t | This attribute specifies the percentage of radio resource that dedicatedly used by the associated rRMPolicyMemberList/sNSSAI. The sum of the rRMPolicyDeidctaedRatio values assigned to all slices be less than or equal to100. |

This Status is sent for each SNSSAI whether the policy sent via Slice Configuration Request has been applied or not.

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| SNSSAI |  |  |
| Status | M | Value: OK, FAILURE |
| Cause | M | Value: Cell_id, ueId_value, Resource_unavilable, Slice_not_found. |

### Slice ReConfiguration Request

Slice Configuration Request is sent to configure the MAC/Scheduler with the rRMPolicyRatio for each of the slices supported in the cell.

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| RRMPolicyList |  | List of RRM policies received from O1. |
| ResouceType |  | For ODU, only PRB will be relevant resource to apply RRM policy on. Value: PRB, DRB, RRC_CONNECTED_USERS. |
| RRMPolicyMemberList |  | This defines the list of S-NSSAIs and  PLMN belonging to the cell. This is to be included if network slicing is supported. |
| > S-NSSAI | M | Identification of the slice. |
| >PLMN | M |  |
| RRMPolicyRatio | M | rRMPolicy for the slice if network slicing feature is supported. This policy is for the resource type “PRB” and applicable to gNB-DU. The other resource type “ DRB” and “RRCConnected” are applicable to gNB-CU. |
| >> rRMPolicyMaxRatio | uint8_t | This attribute specifies the maximum percentage of radio resource that can be used by the associated rRMPolicyMemberList/SNSSAI. The maximum percentage of radio resource include at least one of the shared resources, prioritized resources and dedicated resources. The sum of the rRMPolicyMaxRatio values assigned to all slices can be greater than 100. |
| >> rRMPolicyMinRatio | uint8_t | This attribute specifies the minimum percentage of radio resources that can be used by the associated rRMPolicyMemberList/sNSSAI. The minimum percentage of radio resources including at least one of prioritized resources and dedicated resources. The sum of the rRMPolicyMinRatio values assigned to all slices be less than or equal to100. |
| >> rRMPolicyDedicatedRatio | uint8_t | This attribute specifies the percentage of radio resource that dedicatedly used by the associated rRMPolicyMemberList/sNSSAI. The sum of the rRMPolicyDeidctaedRatio values assigned to all slices be less than or equal to100. |

### Slice ReConfiguration Response

This Status is sent for each SNSSAI whether the policy sent via Slice ReConfiguration Request has been applied or not.

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| SNSSAI |  |  |
| Status | M | Value: OK, FAILURE |
| Cause | M | Value: Cell_id, ueId_value, Resource_unavilable, Slice_not_found. |

### UE Create Request

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Debug Time Info | O | This is an optional IE and may be provided on availability |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell. 2-byte integer allocated by F1AP |
| UE Index | M | Identification of the UE. 2-byte integer allocated by F1AP |
| CRNTI | M | See TS 38.331 RNTI-Value. Allocated by MAC. CRNTI is included only in case of SA |
| mac-CellGroupConfig (schedulingRequestConfig, tag-Config, phr-Config,bsr-config, drx-config) | M | See TS 38.331 MAC-CellGroupConfig |
| physicalCellGroupConfig (pdsch-HARQ-ACK-Codebook, p-NR-FR1) | M | See TS 38.331 PhysicalCellGroupConfig |
| spCellConfig | M | See TS 38.331 SpCellConfig |
| >servCellIndex | M | See TS 38.331 ServCellIndex |
| >ServingCellConfigInfo | M | See TS 38.331 ServingCellConfig |
| >>initialDownlinkBWP (pdcch-Config, pdsch-Config) | M | See TS 38.331 BWP-DownlinkDedicated in ServingCellConfig. |
| >>Number of DL BWP To Add | M | The number of dedicated DL BWP To Add |
| >>DownlinkBWP-ToAddModList (bwp-Id, bwp-Common, bwp-Dedicated) | M | See TS 38.331 BWP-Downlink in ServingCellConfig |
| >>firstActiveDownlinkBWP-Id | M | See TS 38.331 ServingCellConfig |
| >>defaultDownlinkBWP-Id | M | See TS 38.331 ServingCellConfig |
| >>bwp-InactivityTimer | M | See TS 38.331 ServingCellConfig |
| >>PDSCH-ServingCellConfig (maxMIMO-Layers, nrofHARQ-ProcessesForPDSCH, codeBlockGroupTransmission, xOverhead) | M | See TS 38.331 PDSCH-ServingCellConfig in ServingCellConfig |
| >>initialUplinkBWP (pucch-Config, pusch-Config) | M | See TS 38.331 BWP-UplinkDedicated in ServingCellConfig |
| >>Number of UL BWP To Add | M | The number of UL BWP To Add |
| >>uplinkBWP-ToAddModList (bwp-Id, bwp-Common, bwp-Dedicated) | M | See TS 38.331 BWP-Uplink in ServingCellConfig |
| >>firstActiveUplinkBWP-Id | M | See TS 38.331 ServingCellConfig |
| UE Aggregate Maximum Bit Rate Uplink | M | See TS 38.473 gNB-DU UE Aggregate Maximum Bit Rate Uplink |
| dlModInfo  {modOrder,    mcsIndex ,  mcsTable} | M |  |
| ulModInfo   {modOrder,    mcsIndex,   mcsTable} | M |  |
| Number of LC To Add | M | The number of Logical Channel To Add |
| >logicalChannelIdentity | M | See TS 38.331 logicalChannelIdentity |
| >Qos(5Qi , GBR Qos Info, NG-RAN Allocation and Retention Priority, GBR QoS Flow Information, PDU Session ID, UL PDU Session Aggregate Maximum Bit Rate) | M | See TS 38.473 DRB QoS in UE CONTEXT MODIFICATION REQUEST |
| >S-NSSAI | M | See TS 38.473 UE Context Create/Modification Request: DRB Information |
| >DL LogicalChannelConfig (Lc priority) | M | See TS 38.321 Logical channel priority |
| >UL LogicalChannelConfig (priority, logicalChannelGroup, schedulingRequestID, prioritisedBitRate, bucketSizeDuration) | M | See 38.331 LogicalChannelConfig |

### UE Create Response

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Debug Time Info | O | This is an optional IE and may be provided on availability |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell |
| UE index | M | Identification of the UE |
| Result | M | Failure – if API parsing error or semantic error (e.g. incorrect state or invalid CRNTI, Cell Index) or even a single Radio Bearer (SRB/DRB) fails to be established Success – in all the other cases |
| SRB failed to setup list | M | See TS 38.473 SRB Failed to Setup List in UE CONTEXT SETUP RESPONSE |
| DRB failed to setup list | M | See TS 38.473 DRB Failed to Setup List in UE CONTEXT SETUP RESPONSE |
| Scell failed to setup list | M | See TS 38.473 SCell Failed To Setup List in UE CONTEXT SETUP RESPONSE |

### UE Reconfiguration Request

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Debug Time Info | O | This is an optional IE and may be provided on availability |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell |
| UE index | M | Identification of the UE |
| CRNTI | M | See TS 38.331 RNTI-Value    CRNTI is included only in case of reestablishment procedure in SA |
| mac-CellGroup-Reconfig (schedulingRequest-Reconfig, tag-Reconfig, ,bsr-config,drx-config) | M | See TS 38.331 MAC-CellGroupConfig |
| physicalCellGroup-Reconfig (pdsch-HARQ-ACK-Codebook, p-NR-FR1) | M | See TS 38.331 PhysicalCellGroupConfig |
| spCell-Reconfig | M | See TS 38.331 SpCellConfig |
| >servCellIndex | M | See TS 38.331 ServCellIndex |
| >ServingCell-ReconfigInfo | M | See TS 38.331 ServingCellConfig |
| >initialDownlinkBWP-Reconfig (pdcch-Config, pdsch-Config) | M | See TS 38.331 BWP-DownlinkDedicated in ServingCellConfig |
| >> radioLinkMonitoringConfig | M | RadioLinkMonitoringConfig is used to configure radio link monitoring for detection of beam- and/or cell radio link failure. See also TS 38.321 [3], clause 5.1.1 |
| >Number of DL BWP To Add or Modify | M | The number of dedicated DL BWP To Add or Modify |
| >DownlinkBWP-ToAddModList (bwp-Id, bwp-Common, bwp-Dedicated) | M | See TS 38.331 BWP-Downlink in ServingCellConfig |
| >Number of DL BWP To Release | M | The number of dedicated DL BWP To remove |
| >DownlinkBWP-ToReleaseList (bwp-Id) | M | See TS 38.331 downlinkBWP-ToReleaseList in ServingCellConfig |
| >firstActiveDownlinkBWP-Id | M | See TS 38.331 ServingCellConfig |
| >DefaultDownlinkBWP-Id | M | See TS 38.331 ServingCellConfig |
| >bwp-InactivityTimer | M | See TS 38.331 ServingCellConfig |
| >PDSCH-ServingCell-Reconfig (maxMIMO-Layers, nrofHARQ-ProcessesForPDSCH, codeBlockGroupTransmission, xOverhead) | M | See TS 38.331 PDSCH-ServingCellConfig |
| >InitialUplinkBWP-Reconfig (pucch-Config, pusch-Config) | M | See TS 38.331 BWP-UplinkDedicated in ServingCellConfig |
| >>beamFailureRecoveryConfig | M | The IE BeamFailureRecoveryConfig is used to configure the UE with RACH resources and candidate beams for beam failure recovery in case of beam failure detection. See also TS 38.321 [3], clause 5.1.1 |
| >Number of UL BWP To Add or Modify | M | The number of dedicated UL BWP To Add or Modify |
| >UplinkBWP-ToAddModList (bwp-Id, bwp-Common, bwp-Dedicated) | M | See TS 38.331 BWP-Uplink in ServingCellConfig |
| >Number of UL BWP To Release | M | The number of dedicated UL BWP To remove |
| >uplinkBWP-ToReleaseList (bwp-Id) | M | See TS 38.331 uplinkBWP-ToReleaseList in ServingCellConfig |
| >firstActiveUplinkBWP-Id | M | See TS 38.331 ServingCellConfig |
| UE Aggregate Maximum Bit Rate Uplink | M | See TS 38.473 gNB-DU UE Aggregate Maximum Bit Rate Uplink |
| dlModInfo  {modOrder,    mcsIndex ,   mcsTable} | M |  |
| ulModInfo   {modOrder,    mcsIndex,   mcsTable} | M |  |
| Number of LC To Add | M | The number of Logical Channel to Add |
| >logicalChannelIdentity | M | See TS 38.331 logicalChannelIdentity |
| >Qos(5Qi , GBR Qos Info, NG-RAN Allocation and Retention Priority, GBR QoS Flow Information, PDU Session ID, UL PDU Session Aggregate Maximum Bit Rate) | M | See TS 38.473 DRB QoS in UE CONTEXT MODIFICATION REQUEST |
| >S-NSSAI | M | See TS 38.473 S-NSSAI in UE CONTEXT MODIFICATION REQUEST |
| >DL LogicalChannelConfig (Lc priority) | M | See TS 38.321 Logical channel priority |
| >UL LogicalChannelConfig (priority, logicalChannelGroup, schedulingRequestID, prioritisedBitRate, bucketSizeDuration) | M | See 38.331 LogicalChannelConfig |
| Number of LC To Delete | M | The number of Logical Channel to Delete |
| >logicalChannelIdentity | M | See TS 38.331 logicalChannelIdentity |
| Number of LC To Modified | M | The number of Logical Channel To Modified |
| >Logical Channel Identity | M | See TS 38.331 logicalChannelIdentity |
| >Qos(5Qi , GBR Qos Info, NG-RAN Allocation and Retention Priority, GBR QoS Flow Information, PDU Session ID, UL PDU Session Aggregate Maximum Bit Rate) | M | See TS 38.473 DRB QoS in UE CONTEXT MODIFICATION REQUEST |
| >S-NSSAI | M | See TS 38.473 S-NSSAI in UE CONTEXT MODIFICATION REQUEST |
| >DL LogicalChannelConfig (Lc priority) | M | See TS 38.321 Logical channel priority |
| >UL LogicalChannelConfig (priority, logicalChannelGroup, schedulingRequestID, prioritisedBitRate, bucketSizeDuration) | M | See 38.331 LogicalChannelConfig |

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Debug Time Info | O | This is an optional IE and may be provided on availability |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell |
| UE Index | M | Identification of the UE |
| Result | M | Failure – if API parsing error or semantic error (e.g. invalid UE Index, Cell Index) or none of the requested reconfigurations / modifications could be applied Success – in all the other cases |
| SRB failed to setup list | M | See TS 38.473 SRB Failed to Setup List in UE CONTEXT MODIFICATION RESPONSE |
| DRB failed to setup list | M | See TS 38.473 DRB Failed to Setup List in UE CONTEXT MODIFICATION RESPONSE |
| Scell failed to setup list | M | See TS 38.473 SCell Failed To Setup List in  UE CONTEXT MODIFICATION RESPONSE |
| DRB Failed to Modify List | M | See TS 38.473 DRB Failed to be Modified List in UE CONTEXT MODIFICATION RESPONSE |

### UE Delete Request

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Debug Time Info | O | This is an optional IE and may be provided on availability |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell |
| UE Index | M | Identification of the UE is present if UE has been previously successfully created at MAC. |
| CRNTI | M | Identification of the UE. CRNTI presence is optional.  CRNTI is present if UE is being deleted without UE have been created previously at MAC. |

### UE Delete Response

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Debug Time Info | O | This is an optional IE and may be provided on availability |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell |
| UE Index | M | Identification of the UE |
| Status | M | Failure – Invalid Cell Index or UE Index Success – in all the other cases |

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Debug Time Info | O | This is an optional IE and may be provided on availability |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell |
| UE Index | M | Identification of the UE |
| Number of SSB | M | The number of ssb for which CFRA resource allocation is requested. |
| ssb | M | See TS 38.331 SSB-Index |

### RACH Resource Response

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Debug Time Info | O | This is an optional IE and may be provided on availability |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell |
| UE Index | M | Identification of the UE |
| Result | M | Failure – if API parsing error or semantic error (e.g. invalid Cell Index) or unable to allocate any CFRA Resource on any of the SSB Success – in all the other cases |
| newUE-Identity | M | See TS 38.331 newUE-Identity |
| CFRA-SSB-Resource | M | See TS 38.331 CFRA-SSB-Resource |

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Debug Time Info | O | This is an optional IE and may be provided on availability |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell |
| UE Index | M | Identification of the UE is present if UE has been previously successfully created at MAC. |
| CRNTI | M | Identification of the UE. CRNTI presence is optional.  CRNTI is present if UE is being deleted without UE have been created previously at MAC. |

### UE Reset Request

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Debug Time Info | O | This is an optional IE and may be provided on availability |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell |
| UE Index | M | Identification of the UE |

### UE Reset Response

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Debug Time Info | O | This is an optional IE and may be provided on availability |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell |
| UE Index | M | Identification of the UE |
| Status | M | Failure – if API parsing error or semantic error (e.g. invalid UE Index, Cell Index)  Success – in all the other cases |

### UE Sync Status Indication

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Debug Time Info | O | This is an optional IE and may be provided on availability |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell |
| UE Index | M | Identification of the UE |
| Sync Status | M | The sync status is ‘inSync’, ‘OutOfSync’ and OutOfSyncMaxRetriess |

### UL CCCH Indication

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Debug Time Info | O | This is an optional IE and may be provided on availability |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell |
| CRNTI | M | See TS 38.331 RNTI-Value |
| UL-CCCH-Message | M | See TS 38.331 UL-CCCH-Message |

### DL CCCH Indication

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Debug Time Info | O | This is an optional IE and may be provided on availability |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell |
| CRNTI | M | See TS 38.331 RNTI-Value |
| Message Type | M | See TS 38.331 DL-CCCH-Message Type |
| DL-CCCH-Message | M | See TS 38.331 DL-CCCH-Message |

### DL PCCH Indication

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Debug Time Info | O | This is an optional IE and may be provided on availability |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell |
| Paging Frame | M | See TS 38.304 PF |
| Paging Occasion | M | See TS 38.304 PO |
| Short-Message | M | See TS 38.331 Short Message |
| PCCH-Message | M | See TS 38.331 PCCH-Message |

### DL Broadcast Request

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Debug Time Info | O | This is an optional IE and may be provided on availability |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell |
| Number of SI blocks | M | The number of SI |
| SI Message (SI type, scheduling Info and Data) | M | See TS 38.331 SI-SchedulingInfo |

### F1AP Handler – RLC Interface

The following section captures the interface APIs between F1AP and RLC:

| Direction | Message/API | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| F1AP handler to RLC | UE Create | This API is used to add the UE associated RLC entity and related information (e.g.: sn field length, t reassembly timer etc.). Refer to subclause 8.3 in 3GPP TS 38.473 for details of related F1 procedure [18]. Note: One or more RLC entities of the UE may be created in the same API. |
| RLC to F1AP Handler | UE Create Response | This API is used to ack for the UE context creation. |
| F1AP handler to RLC | UE Reconfiguration | This API is used to reconfigure the UE associated RLC entity previously added at RLC. Refer to subclause 8.3 in 3GPP TS 38.473 for details of related F1 procedure [18]. Note: One or more RLC entities of the UE may be re-configured in the same API. |
| RLC to F1AP Handler | UE Reconfiguration Response | This API is used to ack for the UE context reconfiguration. |
| F1AP handler to RLC | UE Delete Request | This API is used to delete the UE and associated RLC entities at RLC. Refer to subclause 8.3 in 3GPP TS 38.473 for details of related F1 procedure [18]. Note: One or more RLC entities of the UE may be deleted in the same API. |
| RLC to F1AP Handler | UE Delete Response | This API is used to ack for the UE context deletion. |
| F1AP handler to RLC | UE RLC Re-establish Request | This API is used to re-establish all the RLC entities associated with the UE. Refer to subclause 8.3 in 3GPP TS 38.473 for details of related F1 procedure [18]. |
| RLC to F1AP Handler | UE RLC Re-establish Response | This API is used to ack for the RLC reestablishment with the UE . |
| F1AP handler (UE State Manager) | DL RRC Message Transfer | This API is used to request RLC to deliver RRC message from CU (RRC) to the UE. |
| F1AP handler (UE State Manager) | UL RRC Message Transfer | This API is used to deliver RRC message from UE to the CU (RRC) |
| RLC to F1AP Handler (UE State Manager) | RLC Max Retransmission Reached | This API is used to inform the higher layers once maximum number of Retransmissions are hit. |
| RLC to F1AP Handler (UE State Manager) | RRC Message Delivery Report | This API is used by RLC to inform higher layers on successful/failed delivery of a DL RRC Message |

The detailed description of APIs is below.

### UE Create

Please note that UL configuration below applies to the DL AM/UM entity locally on the O-DU. Correspondingly DL Configuration below applies to UL AM/UM entity locally on the O-DU.

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell. 2-byte integer allocated by F1AP |
| UE Index | M | Identification of the UE. 2-byte integer allocated by F1AP |
| Number of LCs to be Setup | M | Number of LC to be added as part of UE Creation |
| >logicalChannelIdentity | M | {1...32} SRB/DRB logical channel identity |
| >S-NSSAI | M | See TS 38.473 S-NSSAI in UE CONTEXT SETUP/MODIFICATION REQUEST |
| >RlcMode | M | Mode of operation of this logical channel  {RLC-AM, RLC-UM-Bidirectional, RLC-UM-Unidirectional-UL, RLC-UM-Unidirectional-DL, ...) Range is same as defined in 38.331 |
| > AM Bearer Config | O (if AM) | Present if the RLC Mode is AM |
| >> UL AM Config | M |  |
| >>> snFieldLength | M | {size12, size18} Range is same as defined in 38.331 |
| >>> t-PollRetransmit | M | Range same as 38.331 defined range for T-PollRetransmit |
| >>> pollPDU | M | Range same as defined in 38.331 range for PollPDU |
| >>> pollByte | M | Range same as defined in 38.331 range for PollByte |
| >>> maxRetxThreshold | M | Range same as defined in 38.331 range for maxRetxThreshold  {t1, t2, t3, t4, t6, t8, t16, t32} |
| >> DL AM Config | M |  |
| >>> snFieldLength | M | Range same as defined in 38.331 range for SN-FieldLengthAM |
| >>> t-Reassembly | M | Range same as defined in 38.331 range for T-Reassembly |
| >>> t-statusProhibit | M | Range same as defined in 38.331 range for T-StatusProhibit |
| >UM-Bi-DirectionalConfig | O | Present if RLC Mode = RLC-UM-Bidirectional |
| >> UL-UM-Config | M |  |
| >>> snFieldLength | M | Range same as defined in 38.331 range for SN-FieldLengthUM |
| >> DL-UM-Config | M |  |
| >>> snFieldLength | M | Range same as defined in 38.331 range for SN-FieldLengthUM |
| >>> t-Reassembly | M | Range same as defined in 38.331 range for T-Reassembly |
| >UM-Uni-DirectionalConfig-UL | O | Present if RLC-Mode = RLC-UM-Unidirectional-UL |
| >> snFieldLength | M | Range same as defined in 38.331 range for SN-FieldLengthUM |
| >UM-Uni-DirectionalConfig-DL | O | Present if RLC-Mode = RLC-UM-Unidirectional-DL |
| >> DL-UM-Config | M |  |
| >>> snFieldLength | M | Range same as defined in 38.331 range for SN-FieldLengthUM |
| >>> t-Reassembly | M | Range same as defined in 38.331 range for T-Reassembly |

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell. 2-byte integer allocated by F1AP |
| UE Index | M | Identification of the UE. 2-byte integer allocated by F1AP |
| Result | M | Failure – if API parsing error or semantic error (e.g. incorrect state or invalid UE Index, Cell Index). Refer TS 38.473 section 9.3.1.2 Cause  Success – in all the other cases |

### UE Reconfiguration

- Please note that UL configuration below applies to the DL AM/UM entity locally on the gNB. Correspondingly DL Configuration below applies to UL AM/UM entity locally on the gNB.

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell. 2-byte integer allocated by F1AP |
| UE Index | M | Identification of the UE. 2-byte integer allocated by F1AP |
| Number of LCs to Add/Mod | M | Number of LC to be added |
| >logicalChannelIdentity | M | {1...32} SRB/DRB logical channel identity |
| >S-NSSAI | M | See TS 38.473 S-NSSAI in UE CONTEXT MODIFICATION REQUEST |
| >RlcMode | M | Mode of operation of this logical channel  {RLC-AM, RLC-UM-Bidirectional, RLC-UM-Unidirectional-UL, RLC-UM-Unidirectionall-DL, ...) Range is same as defined in 38.331 |
| > AM Bearer Config | O (if AM) | Present if the RLC Mode is AM |
| >> UL AM Config | M |  |
| >>> snFieldLength | M | {size12, size18} Range is same as defined in 38.331 |
| >>> t-PollRetransmit | M | Range same as 38.331 defined range for T-PollRetransmit |
| >>> pollPDU | M | Range same as defined in 38.331 range for PollPDU |
| >>> pollByte | M | Range same as defined in 38.331 range for PollByte |
| >>> maxRetxThreshold | M | Range same as defined in 38.331 range for maxRetxThreshold  {t1, t2, t3, t4, t6, t8, t16, t32} |
| >> DL AM Config | M |  |
| >>> snFieldLength | M | Range same as defined in 38.331 range for SN-FieldLengthAM |
| >>> t-Reassembly | M | Range same as defined in 38.331 range for T-Reassembly |
| >>> t-statusProhibit | M | Range same as defined in 38.331 range for T-StatusProhibit |
| >UM-Bi-DirectionalConfig | O | Present if RLC Mode = RLC-UM-Bidirectional |
| >> UL-UM-Config | M |  |
| >>> snFieldLength | M | Range same as defined in 38.331 range for SN-FieldLengthUM |
| >> DL-UM-Config | M |  |
| >>> snFieldLength | M | Range same as defined in 38.331 range for SN-FieldLengthUM |
| >>> t-Reassembly | M | Range same as defined in 38.331 range for T-Reassembly |
| >UM-Uni-DirectionalConfig-UL | O | Present if RLC-Mode = RLC-UM-Unidirectional-UL |
| >> snFieldLength | M | Range same as defined in 38.331 range for SN-FieldLengthUM |
| >UM-Uni-DirectionalConfig-DL | O | Present if RLC-Mode = RLC-UM-Unidirectional-DL |
| >> DL-UM-Config | M |  |
| >>> snFieldLength | M | Range same as defined in 38.331 range for SN-FieldLengthUM |
| >>> t-Reassembly | M | Range same as defined in 38.331 range for T-Reassembly |
| Number of LCs to be Released | M | Number of LC to be released |
| >logicalChannelIdentity | M | {1...32} SRB/DRB logical channel identity |

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell. 2-byte integer allocated by F1AP |
| UE Index | M | Identification of the UE. 2-byte integer allocated by F1AP |
| Result | M | Failure – if API parsing error or semantic error (e.g. incorrect state or invalid UE Index, Cell Index). Refer TS 38.473 section 9.3.1.2.  Success – in all the other cases |

### UE Delete

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell. 2-byte integer allocated by F1AP |
| UE Index | M | Identification of the UE. 2-byte integer allocated by F1AP |

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell. 2-byte integer allocated by F1AP |
| Result | M | Failure – if API parsing error or semantic error (e.g. incorrect state or invalid UE Index, Cell Index). Refer TS 38.473 section 9.3.1.2. Success – in all the other cases |

### DL RRC Message Transfer

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell. 2-byte integer allocated by F1AP |
| UE Index | M | Identification of the UE. 2-byte integer allocated by F1AP |
| logicalChannelIdentity | M | {1...3} SRB logical channel identity |
| ExecuteDuplication | O | {true, false} if present it implies RLC needs to duplicate via CA |
| RRCDeliveryStatusRequired | O | {true, false} if present it implies that RLC must report delivery to F1AP (UE State Manager) on successful/failed delivery |
| RRC-Message | M | DL-DCCH-Message as specified in 38.331 |
| RRC-Message-Length | M | Length of DL-DCCH message |

### DL RRC Message Response

RLC sends the status of RRC message sent by DUAPP so that DUAPP can further carry on with the remaining UE related procedures such as UE Context Setup/Modification or release accordingly.

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell. 2-byte integer allocated by F1AP |
| UE Index | M | Identification of the UE. 2-byte integer allocated by F1AP |
| DLMsgState | M | Provides the feedback of the processing  state of RRC message sent by DUAPP to RLC. Values:  ENUM { TRANSMISSION_IN_PROGRESS, TRANSMISSION_COMPLETE, TRANSMISSIN_FAILED} |

### UL RRC Message Transfer

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell. 2-byte integer allocated by F1AP |
| UE Index | M | Identification of the UE. 2-byte integer allocated by F1AP |
| logicalChannelIdentity | M | {1...3} SRB logical channel identity |
| RRC-Message | M | UL-DCCH-Message as specified in 38.331 |
| RRC-Message-Length | M | Length of UL-DCCH message |

### UL RRC Message Delivery Report

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell. 2-byte integer allocated by F1AP |
| UE Index | M | Identification of the UE. 2-byte integer allocated by F1AP |
| logicalChannelIdentity | M | {1...3} SRB logical channel identity |
| RRC Delivery Status | M | RRC Delivery Status as defined in 38.473 |

### RLC Max Retransmission Reached

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell. 2-byte integer allocated by F1AP |
| UE Index | M | Identification of the UE. 2-byte integer allocated by F1AP |
| SRB/DRB | M | Identification of SRB (0) or DRB (1) |
| logicalChannelIdentity | M | {1...32} SRB/DRB logical channel identity that experienced MAX RETRANSMISSION EVENT |

### UL RLC Re-establishment Request

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell. 2-byte integer allocated by F1AP |
| UE Index | M | Identification of the UE. 2-byte integer allocated by F1AP |
| numberOfLc | M | Number of Logical Channels that have to be re-established |
| >logicalChannelIdentity | M | {1...32} SRB/DRB logical channel identity |

### UE RLC Re-establishment Response

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell. 2-byte integer allocated by F1AP |
| UE Index | M | Identification of the UE. 2-byte integer allocated by F1AP |
| Result | M | Failure – if API parsing error or semantic error (e.g. incorrect state or invalid UE Index, Cell Index). Refer TS 38.473 section 9.3.1.2.  Success – in all the other cases |

### UL User Data

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell. 2-byte integer allocated by F1AP |
| UE Index | M | Identification of the UE. 2-byte integer allocated by F1AP |
| logicalChannelIdentity | M | {1...32} SRB/DRB logical channel identity |
| MsgLength | M | Length of the User data in uplink |
| User Data | M |  |

### DL User Data

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell. 2-byte integer allocated by F1AP |
| UE Index | M | Identification of the UE. 2-byte integer allocated by F1AP |
| logicalChannelIdentity | M | {1...32} SRB/DRB logical channel identity |
| MsgLength | M | Length of the User data in Downlink |
| User Data | M |  |

### RLC – O-DU-OAM-Agent Interface

### PM Slice throughput Event

This is PM event to notify the slice specific throughput towards OAM agent that are sent at every reporting interval (1 minutes).

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Num of Slices | M | Number of slices which have active Data sessions |
| Network Slice Identifier | M | 32Bit Integer; 24Bits SD and 8 bits SST |
| Throughput DL | M | DL throughput of this SNSSAI |
| Throughput UL | M | UL throughput of this SNSSAI |

### O1 Interface and data model

The O1 interface performs FCAPS management for the O-DU.

- The O1 interface is terminated at the O-DU-OAM-Agent module of O-DU to handle all configurations of L1 and L2 layers.
- The interface includes cell configuration towards MAC/SCH and RLC layer.
- The interface includes slice specific configuration to support RAN slicing SLA assurance.
- The interface includes Beam forming and MIMO configurations and additionally configuration related to supported SSB and CSI-RS TRS per cell, supported beam forming modes, SRS configuration periodicity to support massive MIMO optimization use cases like non-GoB ,GoB beamforming, L1/L2 beam management as reference in O-RAN.WG1.Use-Cases-mMIMO-TR[31].
- to support Massive MIMO optimization feature.
- The O1 interface for the O-DU details the data model at cell level, beam level and slice level configurations at stated in reference [26].
- O1 interface supports the performance management/KPI management. O-DU-OAM -Agent collects the performance counters at the cell level, beam level and slice level as required to support various feature optimization and reports to the performance management entity of the SMO.
- The optimized DU configuration for the features e.g. Massive MIMO optimization is notified by the SMO to O-DU-OAM-Agent over file ready notification and the same can be downloaded at O-DU-OAM-Agent module upon accepting the file download request from O-DU system. If required, the O-DU system notifies the new configuration to the O-RU over Fronthaul M-plane interface as reference in [23]. The optimized DU configuration is achieved by the AI/ML driven rAPP application hosted at the Non RT-RIC performs or by xApp application hosted at the Near RT-RIC underlying ML model trained on the historical data collected from a cell or a cluster of cells .The input data for this optimization training and interference can be comprised of several performance statistics and the output of the inference is the optimized configuration sent towards O-DU over the O1 interface.
- For data models, please refer to O-RAN WG5 data models for O-DU [26].
The E2 service models is extended to support the use cases e.g. RAN slicing SLA assurance and Massive MIMO Optimization.

- The enhancement in the O-RAN interfaces and data models of the E2 interface to enable the Near RT RIC to support Massive MIMO sub-features for AI/ML based mMIMO BF optimization, also enhancements to Near-RT RIC architecture if there is any is detailed in reference [32]

# O-CU Interface

APIs between the following layers of O-CU are described in this section.

- RRC-SDAP
- RRC-PDCP
- SDAP- PDCP
It is expected that the software implementation of the APIs defined in this section will be in conformance with the API message definition and the fields or message elements. Data types and encoding/decoding of the message contents will be implementation dependent. Message elements (IEs) referring to definitions in 3GPP specifications are italicized for ease of reference.

### RRC-SDAP Interface

| Direction | Message/API | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| RRC to SDAP | QoS flow to DRB mapping | QoS mapping when a DRB is added/modified. RRC indicates  in this API if reflective QoS is used. |
| RRC to SDAP | DRB release | To remove all QoS flow to DRB mappings |

The detailed description of RRC-SDAP APIs is below.

### QoS Flow to DRB Mapping

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Frame Number | M | Start time |
| Slot Number | M | Start time |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell |
| UE index | M | Identification of the UE |
| Mapping list number | M | The number of mapping list |
| Mapping list(QFI, RB id) | M | Identification of the mapping between QFI and RB id |

### DRB Release

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Frame Number | M | Start time |
| Slot Number | M | Start time |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell |
| UE index | M | Identification of the UE |
| DRB id | M | Identification of the Released DRB |

### SDAP-PDCP Interface

| Direction | Message/API | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| SDAP to PDCP | Transfer data PDU (DL) | Transfer of SDAP PDU (with or without SDAP header) in downlink direction |
| PDCP to SDAP | Transfer data PDU (UL) | Transfer of SDAP PDU (with or without SDAP header) in uplink direction |
| SDAP to PDCP | End-marker control PDU (DL) | Control PDU (only SDAP header) to indicate end of mapping of QoS flow |

The detailed description of SDAP-PDCP APIs is below:

### Transfer Data PDU (DL)

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Frame Number | M | Start time |
| Slot Number | M | Start time |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell |
| SDAP PDU number | M | PDU number |
| SDAP PDU info (UE index, DRB id, PDU length, PDU data) | M | Identification of the UE, PDU length and SDAP PDU data |

### Transfer Data PDU (UL)

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Frame Number | M | Start time |
| Slot Number | M | Start time |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell |
| SDAP PDU number | M | PDU number |
| SDAP PDU info (UE index, DRB id, PDU length, PDU data) | M | Identification of the UE, PDU length and SDAP PDU data |

### End-marker Control PDU (DL)

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Frame Number | M | Start time |
| Slot Number | M | Start time |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell |
| UE index | M | Identification of the UE |
| DRB id | M | Identification of the DRB |
| EndMarker | M | End of the QoS flow-DRB mapping |

### RRC-PDCP Interface

| Direction | Message/API | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| RRC to PDCP | PDCP entity establishment | To establish a PDCP entity for radio bearers |
| RRC to PDCP | PDCP entity re-establishment | To re-establish PDCP entity |
| RRC to PDCP | PDCP entity release | To release PDCP entity |
| RRC to PDCP | SRB Data Request | To Deliver SRB(s) Data from RRC to PDCP (DL) |
| PDCP to RRC | SRB Data Indication | To Deliver SRB(s) Data from PDCH to RRC (UL) |

The detailed description of RRC-PDCP APIs is below:

### PDCP Entity Establishment

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell |
| UE index | M | Identification of the UE |
| Frame Number | M | Start time |
| Slot Number | M | Start time |
| RB number | M | The number of RB |
| RB information list (Rb Id, logicalChannelIdentity, RB type, discardTimer, t-Reordering, SN Bit, headerCompression, securityConfig) | M | See RadioBearerConfig, PDCP-Config in 38.331 |

### PDCP Entity Re-establishment

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell |
| UE index | M | Identification of the UE |
| Frame Number | M | Start time |
| Slot Number | M | Start time |

### SRB Data Request

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell |
| UE index | M | Identification of the UE |
| Frame Number | M | Start time |
| Slot Number | M | Start time |
| SRB PDU Number | M | The number of RB |
| SRB PDU info(SRB id, data length, SRB PDU data) | M |  |

### SRB Data Indication

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Cell Index | M | Identification of the Cell |
| UE index | M | Identification of the UE |
| Frame Number | M | Start time |
| Slot Number | M | Start time |
| SRB PDU Number | M | The number of RB |
| SRB PDU info(SRB id, data length, SRB PDU data) | M |  |

### SDAP-eGTPU Interface

| Direction | Message/API | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| SDAP to eGTPU | Transfer Data SDAP SDU(UL) | Transfer of SDAP SDU in uplink direction |
| eGTPU to SDAP | Transfer Data SDAP SDU(DL) | Transfer of SDAP SDU in downlink direction |

### Transfer Data SDAP SDU (UL)

This message is sent by SDAP to transfer uplink data to eGTPU.

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Cell index | M | Identification of the Cell |
| UE index | M | Identification of the UE |
| PDU Session id | M | Identification of the PDU Session |
| QFI | M | QoS Flow Identifier |
| SDAP SDU data | M |  |
| SDAP SDU length | M |  |

### Transfer Data SDAP SDU (DL)

- This message is sent by eGTPU to transfer downlink data to SDAP.

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Cell index | M | Identification of the Cell |
| UE index | M | Identification of the UE |
| PDU Session id | M | Identification of the PDU Session |
| QFI | M | QoS Flow Identifier |
| SDAP SDU data | M |  |
| SDAP SDU length | M |  |

### PDCP-eGTPU Interface

| Direction | Message/API | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| PDCP to eGTPU | Transfer Data PDCP PDU(DL) | Transfer of PDCP PDU in downlink direction. |
| eGTPU to PDCP | Transfer Data PDCP PDU(UL) | Transfer of PDCP PDU in uplink direction |

### Transfer Data PDCP PDU (DL)

This message is sent by PDCP to eGTPU to transfer packets in downlink direction.

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Cell index | M | Identification of the Cell |
| UE index | M | Identification of the UE |
| DRB id | M | Identification of the DRB |
| PDCP PDU data | M |  |
| PDCP PDU length | M |  |

### Transfer Data PDCP PDU (UL)

- This message is sent by eGTPU to PDPCP to transfer packets in uplink direction.

| Element | Presence | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Cell index | M | Identification of the Cell |
| UE index | M | Identification of the UE |
| DRB id | M | Identification of the DRB |
| PDCP PDU data | M |  |
| PDCP PDU length | M |  |

### Ciphering and Integrity Protection

O-CU implements ciphering and integrity algorithms specified in [9] for signalling and data bearers. This may be implemented in software or in hardware for acceleration.

### Header Compression

The header compression protocol is based on the Robust Header Compression (ROHC) framework defined in RFC 5795.  As specified in [9] the following profiles are supported.

| Profile Identifier | Usage | Reference |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 0x0000 | No compression | RFC 5795 |
| 0x0001 | RTP/UDP/IP | RFC 3095, RFC 4815 |
| 0x0002 | UDP/IP | RFC 3095, RFC 4815 |
| 0x0003 | ESP/IP | RFC 3095, RFC 4815 |
| 0x0004 | IP | RFC 3843, RFC 4815 |
| 0x0006 | TCP/IP | RFC 6846 |
| 0x0101 | RTP/UDP/IP | RFC 5225 |
| 0x0102 | UDP/IP | RFC 5225 |
| 0x0103 | ESP/IP | RFC 5225 |
| 0x0104 | IP | RFC 5225 |

# Use-Cases Enhancements

Below section has been added to define few of the enhancements corresponding to the ORAN use cases document.

### Non-GoB mMIMO optimization

This section details the Use case 6: Massive MIMO Beamforming Optimization as defined in [40]. This use case allows the operator to flexibly configure Massive MIMO system parameters by means of policies, configuration, or machine learning techniques to improve the wireless performance, coverage and the QoS.

In this method, the non-RT and near-RT RIC utilize the UE/BS channel condition, mobility, and measured performance data to assist in beamforming mode selection and dynamically generate the beamforming weights.

Below diagram captures the flow of information between the PHY, L2 and near RT-RIC. Functionality such as ML training and application have not been captured in this document and is out of scope.

Following RAN information data is identified to be shared with RIC/rApps for ML training and application.

- DL Synchronization Signal based Reference Signal Received Power (SS-RSRP)
- DL Synchronization Signal based Signal to Noise and Interference Ratio (SS-SINR)
- UL Sounding Reference Signal based Reference Signal Received Power (SRS-RSRP)
- Supported Non-GoB Beamforming Modes
No New API is to be defined for this. O1 parameters and KPIs used are detailed in section 11.2.1.

Communication with RIC/rApps over the E2 interface are defined in the service models and E2 interface specifications. Please refer to [42] and [43] more details.

E2 Interface can be referred for more details. O-RAN.WG3.E2SM-KPM [40) and O-RAN.WG3.E2SM-RC [41] documents can be referred to for more details on the E2 service models used.

This section details the Use case 20: Shared O-RU as defined in [40]. It allows deploying O-RU where below objectives could be achieved.

- Enhanced scalability and/or enhance availability and/or enable access-specific node deployments in fronthaul systems, where multiple O-DU nodes are deployed by a single operator and connected to a shared O-RU.
- Enhanced sharing capabilities where multiple O-DU nodes are deployed by different operators and connected to a shared O-RU.
Proposed Use Cases:

- Single MNO, Hierarchical mode
- Single MNO, Hybrid mode
- Multiple MNO, Hierarchical mode
- Multiple MNO, Hybrid Mode
- Multiple MNO, Neutral Host
Single MNO use cases may cover load-sharing or redundant-O-DU use cases, or multiple RAN types e.g., 4G + 5G. Multiple MNO use cases may cover O-RU sharing between two or more RAN operators.

Static allocation of resources between O-DU nodes

- Single Operator Use Case
- Active/Standby operation
- Identical carrier configurations on separate O-DU nodes.
- The operation of the stand-by O-DU node is enhanced such that carrier configuration of the O-RU is omitted, which is instead performed only by the active O-DU node.
- The stand-by O-DU node subscribes to receive supervision notifications from the O-RU
- Scale in/Scale out operation
- SMO statically partitions O-RU resources between a set of candidate O-DU nodes.
- The SMO uses the O1 interface to either i) activate and configure or ii) de-activate.
- Access-centric configuration
- The SMO statically partitions O-RU resources between LTE and NR carriers.
- Multi-Operator Use Case
- Shared Resource Operator (SRO)-H enters into an agreement with one or more SRO-Ts to offer access to the resources of a shared O-RU
Dynamic allocation of resources between O-DU nodes

- Single Operator Use Case
- Co-ordination of O-RU resources is performed by the Near RT-RIC or M-plane based on demand and performance for slices.
- Multi-Operator Use Case
- FFS
O-DU Changes:

- Configuration Impact
- No additional O1 interface changes required as NRCellDU operationalState/administrativeState can be used to define ODU node in active or standby mode.
- Functional Impact
- Existing Netconf session can be used for supervision notifications and to determine the operational state of ODU nodes.
- Standby ODU storing of the configuration and applying it once the state changes from standby to active.
- Impact on S-Plane
- The requirements for S-Plane in the Shared O-RU application are unchanged.

### RAN Analytics

This section details the use case as defined in https://oranalliance.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/MVPC/pages/2214658090/MVP-C+RAN+analytics+information+exposure+-+Phase+1+Approved

Purpose of the feature is to expose RAN analytics information to external applications or MEC.

- Data expected to be retrieved by non-RT RIC
- Network level measurement
- UE level radio channel information, mobility related metrics, e.g., CQI, SINR, MCS
- L2 measurement report related to traffic patterns, e.g., throughput, latency, packets per-second, inter frame arrival time.
- RAN protocol stack status: e.g., PDCP buffer status.
- Cell level information: e.g., DL/UL PRB occupation rate
- QoE related measurement metrics collected from SMO.
- User traffic data
- Currently out of the scope of A1 or E2
- Data exposed by Near-RT RIC to application server.
- UE level information
- e.g., Predicted RAN performance or related information,
- Cell level information
- More information as needed.

### RAN Slicing

RAN Slicing allows a network operator to provide services tailored to customers’ requirements. Network slice is defined as a logical network with a bundle of specified network services over a common network infrastructure. A single physical network is sliced into multiple virtual networks that can support different service types over a single RAN.

O-RAN defines multiple slicing use case:

Use Case 1: RAN Slice SLA Assurance

Use Case 2: Multi-vendor Slice

Use Case 3: NSSI Resource Allocation Optimization

O-RAN reference slicing architecture includes slice management functions along with O-RAN architectural components.

ODU configuration is defined in the document under respective sections including 11.2.4.2.3 and 11.2.4.2.4.

### Fronthaul M-Plane

The Lower-Layer Split M-plane(LLS-M) as defined by O-RAN FH specification, facilitates the initialization, configuration and management of the O-RU to support the stated functional split.

A NETCONF/YANG based M-Plane is used for supporting the management features including "start up" installation, software management, configuration management, performance management, fault management and file management towards the O-RU.

The M-Plane supports two architectural models:

Hierarchical model:

The O-RU is managed entirely by one or more O-DU(s) using a NETCONF based M-Plane interface.

Hybrid model:

The hybrid architecture enables one or more direct logical interface(s) between management system(s) and O-RU in addition to a logical interface between O-DU and the O-RU.

The M-Plane provides the following major functionalities to the O-RU. These features are implemented using the NETCONF provided functions.

- "Start-up" installation
- SW management
- Configuration management
- Performance management
- Fault Management
- File Management

### Network Energy Savings

- The Network Energy Saving feature involves many RAN nodes in collecting RAN configuration and network performance data, controlling energy operation policy and energy saving action. NES AI/ML based rApp/xApp handles model training and inference operation. The O-DU interacts with OAM, Non-RT/Near-RT RIC and O-RU through O1, E2, and FH CUS-plane/M-Plane interface respectively.

### NES: RIC Control

The Near RT RIC configures and controls network energy savings on O-CU and O-DU using CCC (Cell Configuration and Control) service model, as described in [44]. The O-NESPolicy RAN configuration structure contains the following attributes

| Information Element | Description |
| --- | --- |
| policyType | Policy indicates ASM or TRX control |
| antennaMaskName | Name indicating supported TX control mask |
| antennaMask | Antenna mask indicating on/off of antenna element |
| sleepMode | ASM sleep mode type as defined by WG4 |
| dataDir | Applied data direction: DL/UL |
| symbolMask | Indicates OFDM symbols for which the sleep mode is applied |
| slotMask | Indicates slots for which the sleep mode is applied |
| validDuration | Indicates duration in 10 ms units |
| esObjective | Expected energy savings target |

- For the full description of energy savings using ASM or TRX control, please refer to [22].

### NES: PHY-MAC interactions

- Within O-DU, the NES related information needs to be shared among L1 processing, L2 processing, and various interface processing functional blocks. The NES interface related information is divided into four categories:  NES Configuration and Capability Information, NES RAN Performance Data, NES Operation Control, and NES Operation Status Info. The details of NES information are described in the following tables.

| Message Type | Parameters | Description | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| energy-saving-capability-common-info | ST8-ready-message-supported | Section Type 8, Ack/Nack support | O-RU->O-DU via FH L1->L2 |
| energy-saving-capability-common-info | sleep-duration-extension-supported | Extend the current sleep | O-RU->O-DU via FH L1->L2 |
| energy-saving-capability-common-info | emergency-wake-up-command-supported | Support emergency M-plane wake up | O-RU->O-DU via FH L1->L2 |
| trx-control-capability-info | supported-trx-control-masks | Antenna array musk support | O-RU->O-DU via FH L1->L2 |
| trx-control-capability-info | sleep-mode-type | Sleep mode | O-RU->O-DU via FH L1->L2 |
| trx-control-capability-info | wake-up-duration | Wake up period | O-RU->O-DU via FH L1->L2 |
| trx-control-capability-info | wake-up-duration-guaranteed | Guaranteed wake up period | O-RU->O-DU via FH L1->L2 |
| trx-control-capability-info | defined-duration-sleep-supported | Support defined sleep period | O-RU->O-DU via FH L1->L2 |
| trx-control-capability-info | undefined-duration-sleep-supported | Support undefined sleep period | O-RU->O-DU via FH L1->L2 |
| asm-capability-info | sleep-mode-type | Sleep mode | O-RU->O-DU via FH L1->L2 |
| asm-capability-info | wake-up-duration | Wake up period | O-RU->O-DU via FH L1->L2 |
| asm-capability-info | wake-up-duration-guaranteed | Guaranteed wake up period | O-RU->O-DU via FH L1->L2 |
| asm-capability-info | defined-duration-sleep-supported | Support defined sleep period | O-RU->O-DU via FH L1->L2 |
| asm-capability-info | undefined-duration-sleep-supported | Support undefined sleep period | O-RU->O-DU via FH L1->L2 |

| Message Type | Parameters | Description | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| RSRP measurements | RSRP | Reference Signals spread over the full bandwidth; RSRP is measured in decibels-milliwatts (dBm) | O-RU->O-DU via FH L1->L2 |
| RSRQ measurements | RSRQ | RSRQ are indications of your signal performance | O-RU->O-DU via FH L1->L2 |
| SINR measurements |  | Uses to give theoretical upper bounds on channel cap | O-RU->O-DU via FH L1->L2 |
| CQI measurement | CQI | An indicator to reflect RF channel quality | L1->L2 |
| MCS Index | MCS | Modulation and coding scheme | L1 -> L2 |

| Message Type | Parameters | Description | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Cell/Carrier Power Control | On/ Off |  | O-DU->O-RU via FH |
| Cell/Carrier Power Control | Pwr Off Start | Frame/sub frame/slot number | O-DU->O-RU via FH |
| RF Channel Reconfiguration | Enable/Disable | M0-M3 | O-DU->O-RU via FH |
| RF Channel Reconfiguration | Activation Start Slot | Frame/sub frame/slot number | O-DU->O-RU via FH |
| RF Channel Reconfiguration | Period | Number of slots | O-DU->O-RU via FH |
| RF Channel Reconfiguration | Acknowledgement |  | O-DU->O-RU via FH |
| Advanced Sleep Modes | On/Off |  | O-DU->O-RU via FH |
| Advanced Sleep Modes | Sleep State | M0-M3 | O-DU->O-RU via FH |
| Advanced Sleep Modes | Sleep Start Slot | Frame/sub frame/slot number | O-DU->O-RU via FH |
| Advanced Sleep Modes | Sleep Period | Number of slots | O-DU->O-RU via FH |
| Advanced Sleep Modes | Acknowledgement |  | O-DU->O-RU via FH |

| Message Type | Parameters | Description | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| O-RU NES Status | NES Mode | Cell/Carrier Off, RF Channels; ASM |  |
| O-RU NES Status | Sleep State | M0-M3 |  |

### O-CU/O-DU Energy Optimization

In the early discussion, most of the energy saving measurements focused on the radio related operation which is the major energy consumption unit. To further achieve the green network goal, more measures can be taken on O-CU aand O-DU to reduce a significant portion of RAN energy cost while maintaining the wireless network performance.

Efficient power management in O-CU/O-DU systems is essential for cost reduction and environmental sustainability. The following approaches are considered to optimize RAN system power utilization:

- For CPU power management, Dynamic Voltage and Frequency Scaling (DVFS) is a technique to adjust CPU voltage and clock frequency dynamically based on workload. Lower frequencies during idle periods save power with optimal task allocation to cores, minimizing context switches and maximizing CPU utilization.
- On Memory Power Optimization, adjusting memory clock speeds based on workload, results in power savins. It is also possible to limit memory bandwidth during low-demand periods to reduce power consumption.
- For the system thermal control, adjusting fan speed based on system (include CPU and memory) temperatures. Overcooling wastes energy if it is not based on thermals condition. Turning off or reducing fan speed during low-load periods save energy.
In summary, a holistic approach that combines CPU power management, memory optimization, and intelligent fan control ensures energy-efficient O-CU/O-DU systems while maintaining performance and reliability.

### O-CU/O-DU Power Management Architecture

O-CU/O-DU power management architecture can be significantly enhanced by employing a centralized power manager that makes dynamic decisions based on power-saving policies, workload demands, and CPU utilization. This intelligent power manager continuously monitors the server's performance metrics and adjusts the operational states of the CPU and its cores accordingly, scaling down during low demand periods to conserve energy or ramping up during peak times to ensure performance. By applying power-saving policies, it can selectively idle or shut down underutilized cores, thus optimizing CPU power usage. Additionally, the power manager oversees memory power consumption by regulating memory frequency and voltage based on current workload requirements, ensuring that energy is not wasted on idle memory resources. Cooling fans are also controlled adaptively; their speeds are adjusted in real-time according to the thermal conditions, preventing unnecessary energy expenditure while maintaining optimal cooling. This power management architecture not only improves energy efficiency but also maintains the balance between performance and power consumption, leading to cost savings and a reduced environmental footprint for overall RAN system.

The O-CU/O-DU power management architecture is described in Figure 13-10. The architecture leverages the commercial off the shelf processor and memory devices to achieve the best performance with lower power consumption.

### O-CU/O-DU Demand Based Power Management Flow

Demand-based power management flow involves a continuous assessment of the O-CU/O-DU’s workload and CPU utilization to dynamically adjust power usage for optimal efficiency. The process begins with real-time monitoring of workload demands and CPU activity levels. When the workload is low or CPU utilization drops, the power management system triggers adjustments to the Voltage Regulator Module (VRM) voltage, lowering it to decrease power consumption. In tandem, the CPU clock speed may be reduced to further conserve energy, aligning processing power with the current demand. This dual adjustment not only minimizes unnecessary power usage but also reduces heat generation, alleviating the load on cooling systems and contributing to overall energy savings. By fine-tuning these parameters on-the-fly, the RAN system can achieve a balance between maintaining performance standards and reducing power consumption, thereby enhancing operational efficiency and prolonging hardware lifespan.

Figure 13-11 shows the demand-based power management flow. the power control software may adjust CPU voltage and clock frequency dynamically based on workload.

CPU Turbo Mode is a feature found in modern processors that dynamically adjusts the clock speed of individual cores to enhance performance. It allows a processor core to temporarily exceed its base clock frequency when certain conditions are met (such as power and thermal headroom). When using turbo mode, the intention is fine-tuning for specific applications that benefit from higher clock speeds on certain cores; it can improve performance in workloads that don’t utilize all cores equally.

Utilizing CPU C-states for power saving involves strategically transitioning the CPU into various low-power idle states when full performance is not needed. Each C-state represents a deeper level of power reduction, with C0 being the fully operational state and deeper states (C1, C2, C3, etc.) progressively reducing power consumption by shutting down more components. The transition into these states is based on workload conditions and CPU activity; when the CPU is idle, it can enter a deeper C-state to save energy. However, there are conditions and restrictions to consider, such as the wake-up time, which is the time required for the CPU to return to an active state (C0) from a deeper C-state. Deeper C-states save more power but have longer wake-up times, which can affect performance if the CPU needs to quickly resume full activity. Thus, the power management system must balance the energy savings with the potential impact on responsiveness, ensuring that deeper C-states are used during extended idle periods while lighter states are used for shorter idles to maintain a responsive system. This careful management helps maximize power efficiency without compromising the performance demands of active workloads.

### L1/L2 Collaboration on Power Management

In a RAN network, the interaction between the physical layer (L1) and the medium access control layer (L2) plays a crucial role in power saving strategies, especially based on varying workloads such as user numbers and time of day. The physical layer is responsible for the actual transmission and reception of data over the air interface, while the MAC layer handles the scheduling and management of these transmissions.

Interaction between L1 and L2 for Power Saving

1.	Monitoring and Reporting: The physical layer continuously monitors real-time network conditions, including the channel condition, reference signal quality. This information is periodically reported to the MAC layer.

2.	Dynamic Scheduling: The MAC layer, using the data from L1, dynamically schedules resource allocation. During periods of low demand (e.g., fewer users or off-peak hours), the MAC layer can reduce the number of active physical resource blocks (PRBs), thereby instructing L1 to lower transmission power or deactivate certain components temporarily.

3.	Sleep Modes and Deactivation: The MAC layer can instruct the physical layer to enter various sleep modes during periods of inactivity. For example, during nighttime or off-peak hours, the MAC scheduler can consolidate traffic to fewer base stations, allowing other base stations to enter deep sleep states, significantly saving power.

5.	Wake-Up Mechanisms: To ensure a balance between power saving and performance, the physical layer must be equipped with fast wake-up mechanisms. The predictive algorithms to anticipate traffic surges based on historical data (e.g., increased user activity during specific times of the day) and can pre-emptively bring components out of sleep modes in preparation for higher loads.

6.	Load Balancing: The MAC layer also performs load balancing by reallocating resources among cells based on real-time demand. By shifting the load to cells with more efficient power states or less congestion, the MAC layer can optimize overall power usage across the network.

By closely coordinating the activities between L1 and L2 based on real-time workload and user activity patterns, 5G networks can achieve significant power savings while maintaining the necessary quality of service. This dynamic and adaptive approach ensures that power usage is minimized during low-demand periods without compromising performance during high-demand times.

### DMRS Beamforming

The O-DU performs configuration of O-RU if  DMRS beamforming is supported by O-DU and O-RU. The configuration parameters are described in [23]. In addition the O_DU processes the RRM and SINR measurements sent by O-RU. The processing of these measurement in O-DU MAC and scheduler and any algorithms used are implementation dependent.

## L1 APIs

| API | Description |
| --- | --- |
| FFT | Perform the FFT operation |
| Layer demapping | Layer De-mapping for 5GNR providing support for a single code word. The algorithm is defined in section 7.3.1.3 in TS38.211 [4] |
| Channel estimation | Performance channel estimation based on the DMRS symbols |
| MIMO equalizer | 5G NR MIMO equalization algorithm |
| Demodulation | Modulation demapper for 5GNR that conforms to section 5.1 in 3GPP TS38.211 [4] |
| Descrambler | Descrambling procedure as defined in TS38.211 [4], which takes a sequence of LLRs and descrambles them based on a scramble code sequence |
| Rate Dematching | LDPC rate dematching operation |
| Polar Decoder | Polar Decoder 5G NR function |
| LDPC Decoder | LDPC Decoder 5G NR function |
| CRC Check | The CRC validate function. It calculates a CRC value and then compares that value to the one at the end of the data |
| Beamforming | Perform the spatial combining of the data from antennas to reduce the number of radio data streams |

| Parameter Fields | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Layer data size | The layer data length |
| Number of layers | Layer count |
| Input Data | Layer demapping input data |

| Parameter Fields | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Start PRB | PRB start position |
| Number of PRB | PRB counts |
| Start Rx Antenna | Start antenna number of contiguous antenna numbers |
| Number of Rx Antenna | Rx antenna count |
| Number of Layers | Layer count |
| Number of DMRS | Number of DMRS symbols per TTI |
| DMRS configuration type |  |
| DMRS in slot | Slot contains the DMRS |
| First DMRS in Slot Position | Position in the slot of the first DMRS symbol |
| PUSCH symbols in TTI | Number of PUSCH symbols in the TTI |
| Received Data | Received DMRS Data from antennas |
| Reference DMRS | Reference DMRS used |

| API | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Layer mapping | Layer mapping for 5GNR providing support for a single code word. The algorithm is defined in section 7.3.1.3 in TS38.211 [4] |
| Demodulation | Modulation mapper for 5GNR that conforms to section 5.1 in 3GPP TS38.211 [4] |
| Scrambler | Scrambling procedure as defined in TS38.211 [4] |
| Rate matching | LDPC rate dematching operation |
| Polar Encoder | Polar Encoder 5G NR function |
| LDPC Encoder | LDPC Encoder 5G NR function |
| CRC Generation | The CRC generation function. It calculates a CRC value |
| Beam Forming | Performs Beamforming function based on the selected algorithm. |
| Precoder | Precoder combines the information from beamforming with several layers of subcarriers to create a set of antenna outputs. |

| API | Description |
| --- | --- |
| PRACH ZC Gen | Generate root ZC sequence used in PRACH. The algorithm is defined in section 7.3.1.3 in TS38.211 [4] |
| PRACH Detection | PRACH preamble detection and power spectrum |

| API | Description |
| --- | --- |
| PBCH DMRS Gen | Generate the DMRS For PBCH message |
| PBCH Gen | Create Complete PBCH message |

## Call Flows

### F1 Startup and Cells Activation

Figure below describes F1 interface setup and cell enabling across O-CU and O-DU as specified in subclause 8.5 of 3GPP TS 38.401 [12] when O-CU and O-DU nodes are brought up. The O-DU and its cells are configured by OAM in the pre-operational state.

### UE registration

The following call flow depicts all the messages across interfaces and internal APIs for UE registration in 5G SA.

s

### RACH procedure

Figure 0 shows the RACH procedure in UE registration call flow described in the previous section.

### SR procedure

The SR procedure call flow is depicted in Figure 0

### UL Grant procedure

The UL Grant procedure call flow is depicted in Figure 0

### PDU Session Establishment

PDU session establishment call flows are as shown in Figure 0

# Revision history

| Date | Revision | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 08/09/2019 | v01.0.0 | First published version for Base Station O-DU and O-CU Software Architecture and APIs |
| 02/14/2020 | v02.0.0 | Added Physical Broadcast Channel, Physical Random Access Channel, L1 Tasks Processing Flow, Front Haul Module, O-DU Timing Synchronization L2 and L3 APIs: Corrections and new APIs MAC-Scheduler APIs: New APIs added to list. All APIs defined fully in this release. |
| 11/09/2020 | v03.0.0 | L2/L3 API updates O1 interface and E2 interface description |
| 08/07/2021 | v04.0.0 | L2 APIs: Corrections and new APIs MAC-Scheduler single API for DL scheduling information and L2 APIs correction. mMIMO configuration/functionalities added  Beamforming configuration updated in O1 and scheduling information Added Cat A radio flow |
| 11/08/2021 | v05.0.0 | RAN slicing feature configuration/functionalities Updated mobility section 8.2.2 Inter O-DU Handover within an O-CU. Added Sections 5.11 O-DU Timing Synchronization and 5.12 Accelerator Abstraction Layer (AAL) |
| 23/03/2021 | V06.0.0 | Rel-16 3gpp functionalities to support Massive MIMO feature. Massive MIMO optimization feature configuration/functionalities (MPV-C). |
| 7/18/2022 | 06.00.01 | Updated as per new TS template |
| 7/20/2022 | 06.00.02 | Further cleanup as per template. Renumbered sections, tables and figures. |
| 7/25/2022 | 06.00.03 | Final updates to sections: References, O-DU and O-CU interfaces |
| 11/14/2022 | 08.00.01 | Final updates for November release. Added references to WG6 and WG11 specifications. |
| 03/22/2023 | 09.00.00 | Final updates for Mar 2023 Train. Incorporated contributions from TG1 and TG2 on massive MIMO optimization. Fixed section numbering issues. |
| 07/21/2023 | 10.00 | Final updates for Jul 2023 release. Incorporated TG1 and TG2 contributions. |
| 11/20/2023 | 11.00 | Final update and WG voting revision for Nov 2023 release. Includes TG1 and TG2 contributions. |
| 03/21/2024 | 12.00 | Final update for Mar 2024 release. TG1 and TG2 contributions – updates to O-CU section and addition of section on network energy savings. Minor corrections in other sections. |
| 07/18/2024 | 13.00 | Updates for July 2024 release. Updates to O-CU and O-DU power savings and NES sections. |
| 11/22/2024 | 14.00 | Updates for Nov 2024 release. Included DMRS beamforming description. Added latest references to WG3 service models. |
| 3/24/2025 | 15.00 | Updates for Mar 2025 release. Updates for RRM measurement and SINR processing in case of DMSR beamforming. Added reference for D2 interface. |
| 7/21/2025 | 16.00 | Updates in Jul 2025 Release. Shared O-RU updates. D2 interface description. |


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG8.TS.IOT.0-R005-v14.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG8.TS.IOT.0-R005-v14.00"
---

## A.1 Test Setup 1: End to End OTA architecture using commercial UE

Figure A.9- : Test Setup 9 – Single Operator Solution for Shared O-RU

Figure A.10- : Test Setup 10 – Two O-DU's are connected to same CU-UP

Figure A.11- : Test Setup 11 – Two O-DU's are connected to different CU-UP

TCP data transfer depends on the following parameters:

UDP data transfer depends on the following parameters:

| MIB |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Parameter | Possible Values | Recommended Values (Phase 1) |
| subCarrierSpacingCommon | ENUMERATED {scs15or60, scs30or120}, | 1 |
| ssb-SubcarrierOffset | INTEGER (0..15), | 15 |
| dmrs-TypeA-Position | ENUMERATED {pos2, pos3}, | NA |
| pdcch-ConfigSIB1 | INTEGER (0..255), | NA |
| > controlResourceSetZero |  |  |
| > searchSpaceZero |  |  |
| cellBarred | ENUMERATED {barred, notBarred}, | 1 |
| intraFreqReselection | ENUMERATED {allowed, notAllowed}, | 0 |
| Multiplexing | TDD/FDD | FDD |
| SSB Pattern (time-freq) |  |  |
|  |  |  |
| ssb-PositionsInBurst |  | 10000000… |
| ssb-periodicityServingCell- |  | ms20 |
| absoluteFrequencySSB |  | according to bandindicator |

| MIB |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Parameter | Possible Values | Recommended Values (Phase 1) |
| subCarrierSpacingCommon | ENUMERATED {scs15or60, scs30or120}, | 1 |
| ssb-SubcarrierOffset | INTEGER (0..11), | As per freq domain resources of SSB |
| dmrs-TypeA-Position | ENUMERATED {pos2, pos3}, | NA |
| pdcch-ConfigSIB1 | INTEGER (0..255), | NA |
| > controlResourceSetZero |  |  |
| > searchSpaceZero |  |  |
| cellBarred | ENUMERATED {barred, notBarred}, | 1 |
| intraFreqReselection | ENUMERATED {allowed, notAllowed}, | 0 |
| Multiplexing | TDD |  |
| SSB Pattern (time-freq) |  |  |
|  |  |  |
| ssb-PositionsInBurst |  | SSB-PositionInBurst   inOneGroup  11111111 GroupPresence 11111111 |
| ssb-periodicityServingCell |  | ms40 |
| absoluteFrequencySSB |  | according to bandindicator |

|  | Default Values (Proposed) |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| SI-SchedulingInfo |  |  |  |
|  | si-WindowLength | ENUMERATED | s20 |
| SchedulingInfo |  |  |  |
|  | si-Periodicity | ENUMERATED | rf16 |
| SI-RequestConfig::= |  |  |  |
|  | ssb-perRACH-Occasion | ENUMERATED | one |

| PUCCH Format0 |  |
| --- | --- |
| format | 0 |
| initialCyclicShift | 0,3 |
| nrofSymbols | 1 |
| startingSymbolIndex | 13 |
| PUCCH Format2 |  |
| format | 2 |
| nrofSymbols | 1 |
| startingSymbolIndex | 13 |
| Number of PRB | 3 |

Refer to the DL DATA DELIVERY STATUS frame format defined in section 5.5.2.2 in 3GPP Specification [10] for more details. All parameters are not mandatory. The desired buffer size for the data radio bearer parameter is required to inform to CU.

| Bits | Number of Octets |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 7 | 6 | 5 | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | 0 | Number of Octets |
| PDU Type (=1) | Highest Transmitted NR PDCP SN Ind | Highest Delivered NR PDCP SN Ind | Final Frame Ind. | Lost Packet Report | 1 |  |  |  |
| Spare | Data rate Ind. | Retransmitted NR PDCP SN Ind | Delivered Retransmitted NR PDCP SN Ind | Cause Report | 1 |  |  |  |
| Desired buffer size for the data radio bearer | 4 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Desired Data Rate | 0 or 4 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Number of lost NR-U Sequence Number ranges reported | 0 or 1 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Start of lost NR-U Sequence Number range | 0 or (6* Number of reported lost NR-U SN ranges) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| End of lost NR-U Sequence Number range | 0 or (6* Number of reported lost NR-U SN ranges) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Highest successfully delivered NR PDCP Sequence Number | 0 or 3 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Highest transmitted NR PDCP Sequence Number | 0 or 3 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Cause Value | 0 or 1 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Successfully delivered retransmitted NR PDCP Sequence Number | 0 or 3 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Retransmitted NR PDCP Sequence Number | 0 or 3 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Padding | 0-3 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |

| RACH IEs (3GPP) | RACH IEs (Config file) | RACHConfig1 (Format 0) | RACHConfig1 (Format C2) | RACHConfig2 (Format B4) |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| RACH-ConfigDedicated |  |  |  |  |
| RACH-ConfigCommon |  |  |  |  |
| rach-ConfigGeneric |  |  |  |  |
| > prach-ConfigurationIndex | PrachConfigIndex | 1 | 190 | 160 |
| > msg1-FDM | PrachMsg1Fdm | 1 |  |  |
| > msg1-FrequencyStart | PrachMsg1FreqStartRb | 0 |  |  |
| > zeroCorrelationZoneConfig | ZeroCorrelationZoneConfig | Default |  |  |
| > preambleReceivedTargetPower | preambleReceivedTargetPower | Default |  |  |
| > preambleTransMax | preambleTransMax | Default |  |  |
| > powerRampingStep | powerRampingStep | Default |  |  |
| > ra-ResponseWindow | RaResponseWindow | sl4 |  |  |
| totalNumberOfRA-Preambles | TotalRaPreambles | 63 |  |  |
| ssb-perRACH-OccasionAndCB-PreamblesPerSSB | SsbPerRachOcc | 3 |  |  |
| ssb-perRACH-OccasionAndCB-PreamblesPerSSB | TotalCbPreamblesPerSsb | 44 |  |  |
| msg1-SubcarrierSpacing | PrachScs | 30KHz |  |  |
| restrictedSetConfig | PrachRestrictSet | unrestrictedSet |  |  |

| TDD-UL-DL-ConfigCommon | Default |
| --- | --- |
| referenceSubcarrierSpacing          SubcarrierSpacing, | 30 KHz |
| pattern1                            TDD-UL-DL-Pattern, |  |
| TDD-UL-DL-Pattern ::= |  |
| dl-UL-TransmissionPeriodicity | ms2p5 |
| nrofDownlinkSlots                   INTEGER (0..maxNrofSlots), | 3 |
| nrofDownlinkSymbols                 INTEGER (0..maxNrofSymbols-1), | 10 |
| nrofUplinkSlots                     INTEGER (0..maxNrofSlots), | 1 |
| nrofUplinkSymbols                   INTEGER (0..maxNrofSymbols-1), | 2 |

Time slot configuration: DDDSU

Bandwidth: 100 MHz

| Downlink | Suggested |  | Uplink | Config |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| U | 1 |  |  |  |
| Max RBs | 275 |  |  |  |
| Number of layers | 2 |  |  |  |
| Code rate for DL (MCS 28) | 5.5547 |  | Code rate for UL (MCS 28) |  |
| Number of Subcarriers | 12 |  |  |  |
| Slot config per sec | 400 |  |  |  |
| Lmax | 2 |  |  |  |
| PDCCH aggregation level | 4 |  | PUCCH | 1 |
| Number of Res per CCEs | 72 |  |  |  |
| SSB (Res) | 48 |  |  |  |
| DMRS (1 sym) | 3300 |  | DMRS (3Sym) | 9900 |
| PDCCH Res | 1152 |  | PUCCH Res | 6600 |
| Over head Res | 4500 |  | 16500 |  |
| Number of Total REs | 68640 |  | Number of total Res | 42240 |
| Available RBs for DL data transfer | 64140 |  | Available RBs for UL data transfer | 25740 |
| DL Throughput | 712.556916 |  | UL Throughput | 285.956 |

| CSI-RS IEs | Possible values | Config 1 | Config 2 | Config 3 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| resourceMapping |  |  |  |  |
| > frequencyDomainAllocation | row1, row2, row4, other | row1 (0001) | other (000001) |  |
| > nrofPorts | ENUMERATED {p1,p2,p4,p8,p12,p16,p24,p32} | p1 | p2 |  |
| > firstOFDMSymbolInTimeDomain | INTEGER (0..13) | 13 |  |  |
| > cdm-Type | ENUMERATED {noCDM, fd-CDM2, cdm4-FD2-TD2, cdm8-FD2-TD4} | noCDM | fd-CDM2 |  |
| > density | dot5  ENUMERATED {evenPRBs, oddPRBs}, one, three, spare | 3 | 1 |  |
| powerControlOffset | INTEGER (-8..15) | 0 |  |  |
| powerControlOffsetSS | ENUMERATED{db-3, db0, db3, db6} | db0 |  |  |
| periodicityAndOffset | slots4 INTEGER (0..3), slots5 INTEGER (0..4), slots8 INTEGER (0..7), slots10 INTEGER (0..9), slots16 INTEGER (0..15), slots20 INTEGER (0..19), slots32 INTEGER (0..31), slots40 INTEGER (0..39), slots64 INTEGER (0..63), slots80 INTEGER (0..79), slots160 INTEGER (0..159), slots320 INTEGER (0..319), slots640 INTEGER (0..639) | slot20 | slot40 | Slot80 |

| CSI-RS IEs | Possible values | Config 1 |
| --- | --- | --- |
| freqDomainPosition | INTEGER (0..67) | 10 |
| usage | ENUMERATED {beamManagement, codebook, nonCodebook, antennaSwitching} | nonCodebook |
| startPosition | INTEGER (0..5) | 0 |
| nrofSymbols | ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4} | n2 |
| nrofSRS-Ports | ENUMERATED {port1, ports2, ports4} | port1 |
| resourceType | aperiodic, semi-persistent, periodic | periodic |
| periodicityAndOffset-p | CHOICE {sl1, sl2, sl4, sl5, sl8, sl10, sl16, sl20, sl32, sl40, sl64, sl80, sl160, sl320, sl640, sl1280, sl2560} | sl10 |

VoNR call depends on the following parameters:

# Revision History

| Date | Revision | Author | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 2020.11.09 | 01.00.00 | Venkata Nagesh (Radisys) Rajat Kumar Pati (Radisys) Manish Kaushik (Radisys) | First release |
| 2021.07.07 | 02.00.00 | Venkata Nagesh (Radisys) Manish Kaushik (Radisys) Veeresh Neginhal (Radisys) | Added O1 and E2 test cases (From ORAN.WG8.IOT.016 to ORAN.WG8.IOT.026) |
| 2021.11.18 | 03.00.00 | Venkata Nagesh (Radisys) Manish Kaushik (Radisys) Veeresh Neginhal (Radisys) | Added O1 and Beam Management testcases. (From ORAN.WG8.IOT.027 to ORAN.WG8.IOT.035)  Updated the document to use LLS-C1 to LLS-C4 profiles for Time Synchronization. |
| 2022.03.22 | 04.00.00 | Venkata Nagesh (Radisys) Manish Kaushik (Radisys) Veeresh Neginhal (Radisys) | RAN slicing feature configuration/functionalities​. Inter O-DU Handover within an O-CU.​ O-DU Timing Synchronization   (From ORAN.WG8.IOT.036 to ORAN.WG8.IOT.053) |
| 2022.07.27 | 05.00 | Manish Kaushik (Radisys) Veeresh Neginhal (Radisys) Uday Parida (Simnovus) | Beam failure detection and recovery SRS and CSI-RS feature O1 and E2 interface – collection and transfer of statistics O1 and E2 interface – parameter reconfiguration  (From ORAN.WG8.IOT.054 to ORAN.WG8.IOT.065) |
| 2022.11.09 | 06.00 | Manish Kaushik (Radisys) Veeresh Neginhal (Radisys) Uday Parida (Simnovus) | Updating the TCs to include O1 and FH interface procedures. (From ORAN.WG8.IOT.001 to ORAN.WG8.IOT.065) |
| 2023.03.12 | 07.00 | Manish Kaushik (Radisys) Veeresh Neginhal (Radisys) Uday Parida (Simnovus) | Added new TCs to verify Cloudification, PTP sync loss and security procedures. (From ORAN.WG8.IOT.066 to ORAN.WG8.IOT.074) |
| 2023.06.29 | 08.00 | Manish Kaushik (Radisys) Veeresh Neginhal (Radisys) | Updating the TCs to include O-CU cloudification aspects. (From ORAN.WG8.IOT.066 to ORAN.WG8.IOT.068)  Added two new TCs to verify massive MIMO optimization. (From ORAN.WG8.IOT.075 to ORAN.WG8.IOT.076) |
| 2023.11.06 | 09.00 | Veeresh Neginhal (Radisys) Rahul Saxena (Radisys) | Updating the IOT specification to latest version of WG specifications. |
| 2024.03.20 | 10.00 | Veeresh Neginhal (Radisys) Rahul Saxena (Radisys) | Added new TCs to verify Shared O-RU and M-Plane procedures. (From ORAN.WG8.IOT.077 to ORAN.WG8.IOT.082)  Updating the TC to include C/U plane transport connectivity validation. (ORAN.WG8.IOT.073)  Updating section referencing per latest version of AAD specification (O-RAN.WG8.AAD.0-R003-v12.00) |
| 2024.07.11 | 11.00 | Veeresh Neginhal (Radisys) Rahul Saxena (Radisys) | Added new TCs to verify RoHC and RAN Slicing. (From ORAN.WG8.IOT.083 to ORAN.WG8.IOT.087) |
| 2024.11.11 | 12.00 | Veeresh Neginhal (Radisys) Rahul Saxena (Radisys) Manish Malviya (Radisys) | Added new TCs to verify Network energy saving. (From ORAN.WG8.IOT.088 to ORAN.WG8.IOT.089) |
| 2025.03.11 | 13.00 | Veeresh Neginhal (Radisys) Manish Malviya (Radisys) | Added new TCs to verify ASM mode Network energy saving. (From ORAN.WG8.IOT.090 to ORAN.WG8.IOT.091) |
| 2025.07.28 | 14.00 | Veeresh Neginhal (Radisys) Manish Malviya (Radisys) | Added new TCs to verify D2 Interface. (From ORAN.WG8.IOT.092 to ORAN.WG8.IOT.094) |


---

<!-- SOURCE: combined_oran_wg9.md -->
<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG9.XPSAAS.0-R004-v09.00.md -->
---
title: "Technical Specification Xhaul Packet Switched Architectures and Solutions"
---

# 3 Editor: Krzysztof Grzegorz Szarkowicz
Contributors in alphabetical order: Jennifer Andreoli-Fang, Phil Bedard, Lujing Cai, Nicolas Fevrier, Francois Fredricx, Ivan Bykov, Kashif Islam, Luis Miguel Contreras Murillo, Toby Rees, Ole Reinartz, Simon Spraggs, Krzysztof Grzegorz Szarkowicz, Reza Vaez-Ghaemi, Nader Zein,

# 7 Jeffrey Zhang
ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 3 Scope

## 3.1 Overview
This Technical Specification has been produced by the O-RAN Alliance. The document is intended to describe best practices for O-RAN Transport Network (TN) based on end-to-end packet switching technology. It is recognized that other solutions, not based on packet switching, could be employed or mixed with a packet switching solution. Beyond the solutions described in this document, other packet switching solutions may be adequate for TN and can be considered in future versions of this document. In the context of 3GPP, the TN is referred as a non 3GPP-managed domain that supports connectivity within and between RAN and Core Network CN (refer to TS 28.530 [13]). Therefore, the TN consolidates the RAN infrastructure by bridging the O-RAN functional split:

# 14 - between RAN components (e.g. Network Functions)
- between RAN components and External Systems (e.g. Core Network)
However, in the context of O-RAN, the O-Cloud can manage certain aspects of RAN connectivity through to the IMS (for more information refer to WG6 CADS document [14]). This alters the traditional definition of the TN, as certain connectivity aspects are no longer within its scope. Hence, given this shift, we define the TN in O-RAN based on domain and management boundaries, explicitly excluding O-Cloud-managed connectivity. Figure 3.1 presents examples of the interplay between O-CLOUD and TN management domains in RAN connectivity:
- The TN is not involved in connectivity between O-DU and O-CU from site A. This is
handled within the O-CLOUD.
- The TN is partially involved in connectivity between O-DU site B and O-CU site A, the
portion of the connectivity within site A is managed by the O-CLOUD.
- The TN provides full connectivity between the O-RU and the physical O-DU of site C since
it is not part of any O-CLOUD.
- The TN provides connectivity to the 5GC in an external site. The external site may
physically match an O-RAN site, however it is considered logically external since it pertains to a non O-RAN managed domain. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 Figure 3-1: Scope of the Transport Network in O-RAN The TN includes Fronthaul, Midhaul, or Backhaul network (Figure 3-2). For the definitions of Fronthaul and Midhaul, authors refer to Open Fronthaul Working Group (WG4) CUS specification [18]. Backhaul is defined as the TN infrastructure that interconnects the RAN and the Core Network. This document uses the term Xhaul to indicate Fronthaul, Midhaul or Backhaul.

# 12 Figure 3-2: TN decomposition applicable in O-RAN
This specification defines an architecture for an Open Xhaul transport network based on an end-to- switching “Transport Node Equipment” (TNE) starting at the cell site in the access layer and going to the core layer of the transport network capable of supporting the requirements outlined in the O-

# 17 RAN WG9 Transport Requirements document [20].
Within the Xhaul transport network it is assumed that the L0/L1 transport technology connecting the packet switches are high capacity, low delay Ethernet point to point circuits. These circuits can be ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 derived from dark fibre, WDM or other technologies capable of presenting Ethernet. These L0/L1 technologies are clearly very important but out of scope of this document. To allow the operators to offer the most flexibility in designing their RAN infrastructure the Xhaul transport network should utilize the same design paradigm as the transport core, aggregation and pre- aggregation. However, in some instances this may not be an option, so this document identifies other potential access technologies, provides a description and considerations/trade-offs for their usage. WG9 sub-teams are working on several solution documents. This document focuses on packet- based transport technologies. It also includes sections on some of the technologies used in physical network such as PON, DOCSIS® networks and wireless Xhaul. WDM in the access network providing Fronthaul services is covered in a different document [21].

# 14 This document does not cover:
1. Timing and synchronization –Another O-RAN WG-9 effort is underway. [22] 2. WDM in access for Fronthaul services -Another O-RAN WG-9 effort is underway[21]. 3. Highly specialized URLLC, for example motion control in an industrial setting. I.e., private network, tightly constrained, requiring TSN in the Backhaul and RAN looking like a TSN bridge. This can be covered in a later edition.

# 21 4. OTN or SPN/G.mtn as a transport layer.

## 3.2 Version History

# 24 Version 1 of this document covers:

# 26 1. High level transport requirements

# 27 2. 5G Fronthaul, Midhaul, Backhaul transport requirement

# 28 3. 5G Operator use cases
The document then considers packet infrastructure and how the packet infrastructure can support the identified requirements and use cases. It describes a packet architecture consisting of an underlay packet switching infrastructure which supports L2 and L3 services. The document covers two potential underlay solutions; MPLS based or SRv6 based. In both cases the service infrastructure consists of MP-BGP VPN solutions supporting L2 and L3 services. The last part of the document outlines, using examples, how the packet switching infrastructure can support the operator use cases outlined earlier in the document. Version 3 builds on the MPLS and SRv6 functionality described in Version 1 and 2 and outlines a transport slicing solution capable of supporting phase 1 and 2 of WG-1 slicing architecture [25]. This is primarily covered in an informational annex (Annex F: Transport network slicing solution for WG1

# 41 Slicing (informational)).
This document uses information and requirements published by O-RAN, 3GPP, IEEE, ITU-T, IETF, CableLabs, NGMN, MEF, BBF and many other standard bodies and industry associations.

# 46 Version 4 brings following updates/enhancements to the document:
ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 ▪ Section 9.4 provides more clarification, which IETF work can be referenced in this document ▪ in Section 11.5.1 evolution of Seamless MPLS architecture, with colored underlay transport, is added. ▪ major update to Section 17 provides details about desired TNE security, including physical security, user access security, transport network control plane security, and port-based access control. ▪ Section 18 is enhanced with additional mapping option for service slice to underlay transport plane mapping, as well has enhanced in general to provide more details about each mapping method. ▪ Small changes to Annex F are added to align with slicing phase 3 as described in O-

# 13 RAN.WG1.Slicing-Architecture [25]
▪ Annex ZZZ (O-RAN Adopter License Agreement) is removed, as it is no longer needed Version 5 brings small update to Section 17.4: Port-based network access control (IEEE 802.1X- 2020), adding some discussion about the TNE-to-TNE authentication methods, as well as describing the behavior when a certificate expires. Version 6 brings small updates to Section 10 (reference to CTI documents updated), as well as additions in Annex F related to the description of network slicing phase 4 in midhaul. Version 7 brings update to Section 17.4, adding discussion about operator-signed certification management for TNEs providing Open Fronthaul transport connectivity. Annex F is slightly enhanced to reference relevant IETF TEAS WG 5G transport slicing draft. Version 8 brings enhancement to Section 17.2: “TNE user access security”, by addition a new subsection 17.2.3: “Security Protocols”. Version 8 also introduces new section, which discusses energy efficiency aspects of the transport network (Section 19: “Energy efficiency in the context of

# 30 Xhaul Packet Switched Transport Network Equipments”)
Version 9 clarify the scope of the TN as well as the Terminology (TNE, Attachment circuit etc.). ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 4 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this text, constitute provisions of the present document.
- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition number, version
number, etc.) or non-specific.
- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a reference to a 3GPP
document (including a GSM document), a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document in Release 17.

# 12 3GPP references
[1] 3GPP TS 23.501 V17.10.0: “System Architecture for 5G System (5GS)” [2] 3GPP TS 23.203 V17.2.0: “Policy Control and Charging Architecture” [3] 3GPP TS 28.316 V17.0.0: “Management and orchestration; Plug and Connect;

# 16 Data formats”
[4] 3GPP TS 29.060 V17.4.0: “General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); GPRS Tunnelling Protocol (GTP) across the Gn and Gp interface” [5] 3GPP TS 29.274 V17.9.0: “3GPP Evolved Packet System (EPS); Evolved General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) Tunnelling Protocol for Control plane

# 21 (GTPv2-C); Stage 3”
[6] 3GPP TS 29.281 v17.4.0: “General Packet Radio System (GPRS) Tunnelling

# 23 Protocol User Plane (GTPv1-U)
[7] 3GPP TS 32.509 V16.0.0.: “Telecommunication management; Data formats for multi-vendor plug and play eNode B connection to the network” [8] 3GPP TS 33.310 V17.7.0: “Network Domain Security (NDS); Authentication

# 27 Framework (AF)”
[9] 3GPP TS 36.422 V17.1.0: “Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access

# 29 Network (E-UTRAN); X2 signalling transport”
[10] 3GPP TS 36.424 v17.0.0: “Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network

# 31 (E-UTRAN); X2 data transport”
[11] 3GPP TS 38.306 V17.6.0: “NR; User equipment (UE) radio access capabilities” [12] 3GPP TS 38.401 V17.6.0: “NG-RAN; Architecture description” [13] 3GPP TS 38.415 V17.0.0: “NG-RAN; PDU Session User Plane Protocol” [14] 3GPP TS 38.422 V17.1.0: “NG-RAN; Xn signalling transport” [15] 3GPP TS 38.462 V17.0.0: “NG RAN; E1 signalling transport” [16] 3GPP TS 38.474 V17.0.0: “NG-RAN; F1 data transport”. [17] 3GPP TS 28.530 V18.1.0: "Management and orchestration; Concepts, use cases and requirements"

# 41 O-RAN references
[18] O-RAN.WG4.CUS.0-v09.00 “Open Fronthaul Control, User and Synchronization Plane Specification Version v09.00”, August 2022 [19] O-RAN.WG4.MP.0-v09.00: “Open Fronthaul Management Plane Specification v09.00”, April 2022 ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 [20] O-RAN.WG9.XTRP-REQ-v01.00 “Xhaul Transport Requirements v01.00”, November 2020 [21] O-RAN.WG9.WDM.0-v02.00 “WDM-based Fronthaul Transport v02.00”, November 2021 [22] O-RAN.WG9.XTRP-SYN.0-v03.00 “Synchronization Architecture and Solution Specification v03.00”, July 2022 [23] O-RAN.WG9.XTRP-MGT.0-v04.00 “Management interfaces for Transport Network Elements v04.00”, July 2022 [24] O-RAN.WG4.CTI-TCP.0-R003-v04.00, “Cooperative Transport Interface Transport Control Plane Specification v04.00”, April 2023 [25] O-RAN.WG4.CTI-TMP.0-R003-v04.00, “Cooperative Transport Interface Transport Management Procedures Specification v04.00”, April 2023 [26] O-RAN.WG1.Slicing Architecture-v07.00, April 2022 [27] O-RAN.WG11.Security-Requirements-Specifications-v04, November 2022 [28] MITRE-12-05-2022-WG1-CR-0001-UseCaseAnalysisReport-RAN-Sharing- Via-Midhaul-v09, May 2022 [29] O-RAN ALLIANCE TS: "O-RAN Security Protocols Specification" [30] O-RAN.WG6.CADS-v08 - “O-RAN Working Group 6 - Cloud Architecture and

# 24 Deployment Scenarios for O-RAN Virtualized RAN”

# 28 IEEE references
[31] IEEE 802.3-2018: “IEEE Standard for Ethernet” [32] IEEE 802.1Q-2018: “IEEE Standard for Local and metropolitan area networks— Bridges and Bridged Networks” [33] IEEE 802.1CM-2018: “Time-Sensitive Networking for Fronthaul” [34] IEEE Std 1914.1TM-2019: “IEEE Standard for Packet-based Fronthaul

# 34 Transport Network”
[35] IEEE 802.3av “Physical Layer Specifications and Management Parameters for

# 36 10 Gb/s Passive Optical Networks”
[36] IEEE 802.3bk “Physical Layer Specifications and Management Parameters for

# 38 Extended Ethernet Passive Optical Networks”
[37] IEEE 802.3ca “Physical Layer Specifications and Management Parameters for

# 40 25 Gb/s and 50 Gb/s Passive Optical Networks”
[38] IEEE Std 1914.3-2018 – IEEE standard for radio over Ethernet Encapsulations and Mappings [39] IEEE Std 802.1X-2020 “IEEE Standard for Local and Metropolitan Area

# 44 Networks--Port-Based Network Access Control”
ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 9 Processing Rules”
[46] IETF RFC 2210: “The use of RSVP with IETF Integrated Services” [47] IETF RFC 2328: “OSPF Version 2” [48] IETF RFC 2475: “An Architecture for Differentiated Services” [49] IETF RFC 2474: “Definition of the Differentiated Services Field (DS Field) in the IPv4 and IPv6 Headers” [50] IETF RFC 2545: Use of BGP-4 Multiprotocol Extensions for IPv6 Inter-

# 16 Domain Routing”
[51] IETF RFC 2597: “Assured Forwarding PHB Group” [52] IETF RFC 2598: “An Expedited Forwarding PHB” [53] IETF RFC 2745: “RSVP Diagnostic Messages” [54] IETF RFC 2747: “RSVP Cryptographic Authentication” [55] IETF RFC 2858: “Multiprotocol Extensions for BGP-4” [56] IETF RFC 2865: “Remote Authentication Dial In User Service (RADIUS)” [57] IETF RFC 2866: “RADIUS Accounting” [58] IETF RFC 2961: “RSVP Refresh Overhead Reduction Extensions” [59] IETF RFC 2983: “Differentiated Services and Tunnels” [60] IETF RFC 3031: “Multiprotocol Label Switching Architecture” [61] IETF RFC 3032: “MPLS Label Stack Encoding” [62] IETF RFC 3097: “RSVP Cryptographic Authentication—Updated Message

# 29 Type Value”
[63] IETF RFC 3209: “Extensions to RSVP for LSP Tunnels” [64] IETF RFC 3212: “Constraint-Based LSP Setup using LDP” [65] IETF RFC 3215: “LDP State Machine” [66] IETF RFC 3246: “An Expedited Forwarding PHB (Per-Hop Behavior) [67] IETF RFC 3107: “Carry Label Information in BGP-4” [68] IETF RFC 3443: “Time To Live (TTL) Processing in Multi-Protocol Label

# 36 Switching (MPLS) Networks”
[69] IETF RFC 3477: “Unnumbered Links in Resource ReSerVation Protocol -

# 38 Traffic Engineering (RSVP-TE)”
[70] IETF RFC 3478: “Graceful Restart Mechanism for Label Distribution Protocol” [71] IETF RFC 3579: “RADIUS (Remote Authentication Dial In User Service)

# 41 Support For Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP)”
[72] IETF RFC 3630: “Traffic Engineering (TE) Extensions to OSPF Version 2” [73] IETF RFC 3719: “Recommendations for Interoperability using ISIS” [74] IETF RFC 4072: “Diameter Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP)

# 45 Application”
[75] IETF RFC 4090: “Fast Reroute Extensions to RSVP-TE for LSP Tunnels” [76] IETF RFC 4115: “A Differentiated Service Two-Rate, Three-color Market with

# 48 Efficient Handling of in-Profile Traffic”
[77] IETF RFC 4182: “Removing a Restriction on the use of MPLS Explicit NULL” ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 [78] IETF RFC 4210: “Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certificate

# 5 Label Switching (GMPLS)”
[81] IETF RFC 4206: Label Switched Paths (LSP) Hierarchy with Generalized

# 7 Multi-Protocol Label Switching (GMPLS) Traffic Engineering (TE)”
[82] IETF RFC 4252: “The Secure Shell (SSH) Authentication Protocol” [83] IETF RFC 4443: “ICMPv6 (ICMP for IPv6)” [84] IETF RFC 4552: “Authentication/Confidentiality for OSPFv3” [85] IETF RFC 4558: “Node-ID Based Resource Reservation Protocol (RSVP)

# 12 Hello”
[86] IETF RFC 4561: “Record Route Object (RRO) Node-Id Sub-Object” [87] IETF RFC 4594: “Configuration Guidelines for DiffServ Service Classes” [88] IETF RFC 4364: “BGP/MPLS IP Virtual Private Networks (VPNs)” [89] IETF RFC 4684: “Constrained Route Distribution for BGP/MPLS IP VPNs”

# 17 Computation Element Protocol (PCEP)”
[90] IETF RFC 4760: “Multiprotocol Extensions for BGP-4” [91] IETF RFC 4875: “Extensions to Resource Reservation Protocol – Traffic Engineering for Point to Multipoint TE Label Switched Paths” [92] IETF RFC 5036: “LDP Specification” [93] IETF RFC 5130: “A Policy Control Mechanism in IS-IS Using Administrative

# 23 Tags”
[94] IETF RFC 5216: “The EAP-TLS Authentication Protocol” [95] IETF RFC 5246: “The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.2” [96] IETF RFC 5283: “LDP Extension for Inter-Area Label Switched Paths (LSPs)” [97] IETF RFC 5291: “Outbound Route Filtering Capability for BGP-4” [98] IETF RFC 5292 “Address-Prefix-Based Outbound Route Filter for BGP-4” [99] IETF RFC 5302 “Domain-Wide Prefix Distribution with Two-Level IS-IS” [100] IETF RFC 5303: “Three-Way Handshake for IS-IS Point-to-Point Adjacencies” [101] IETF RFC 5305: “IS-IS Extensions for Traffic Engineering” [102] IETF RFC 5308: “Routing IPv6 with ISIS” [103] IETF RFC 5310: “IS-IS Generic Crypto Authentication” [104] IETF RFC 5329: “Traffic Engineering Extensions to OSPF Version 3” [105] IETF RFC 5340: “OSPF for IPv6” [106] IETF RFC 5420: “Encoding of Attributes for MPLS LSP Establishment Using

# 37 Resource Reservation Protocol Traffic Engineering (RSVP-TE)”
[107] IETF RFC 5440: “Path Computational Element (PCE) Communications

# 39 Protocol (PCEP)”
[108] IETF RFC 5443: “LDP IGP Synchronization” [109] IETF RFC 5496: “The Reverse Path Forwarding (RPF) Vector TLV” [110] IETF RFC 5512: “The BGP Encapsulation Subsequent Address Family

# 43 Identifier (SAFI) and the BGP Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute”
[111] IETF RFC 5561: “LDP capabilities” [112] IETF RFC 5838: “Support of Address Families in OSPFv3” [113] IETF RFC 5925: “The TCP Authentication Option” [114] IETF RFC 5926: “Cryptographic Algorithms for the TCP Authentication Option

# 48 (TCP-AO)”
[115] IETF RFC 6232: “Purge Originator Identification TLV for IS-IS” ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 [116] IETF RFC 6388: “Label Distribution Protocol Extensions for Point-to-

# 4 Switched Network”
[118] IETF RFC 6512: “Using Multipoint LDP When the Backbone has No Route to the ROOT” [119] IETF RFC 6513: “Multicast in MPLS/BGP IP VPNs” [120] IETF RFC 6514: “BGP Encodings and procedures for multicast in MPLS/BGP

# 9 IP VPNs”
[121] IETF RFC 7432: “BGP MPLS-Based Ethernet VPN” [122] IETF RFC 7471: “OSPF Traffic Engineering (TE) Metric Extensions” [123] IETF RFC 7524: “Inter-Area Point to Multipoint Segmented Label Switched

# 13 Paths (LSPs)”
[124] IETF RFC 7570: “Label Switched Path (LSP) Attribute in the Explicit Route

# 15 Object (ERO)”
[125] IETF RFC 7761: “Protocol Independent Multicast” [126] IETF RFC 7810: “IS-IS Traffic Engineering (TE) Metric Extensions” [127] IETF RFC 8029: “Detecting Multiprotocol Label Switched (MPLS) Data-plane

# 19 Failures”
[128] IETF RFC 8200: “Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6) Specification” [129] IETF RFC 8214: “Virtual Private Wire Service Support in Ethernet VPN” [130] IETF RFC 8231: “Path Computational Element Communications Protocol

# 23 (PCEP) Extensions for Stateful PCE”
[131] IETF RFC 8277: “BGP and Labeled Address Prefixes” [132] IETF RFC 8279: “Multicast Using Bit Index Explicit Replication (BIER)” [133] IETF RFC 8287: “Label Switched Path (LSP) Ping/Traceroute for Segment Routing (SR) IGP-Prefix and IGP-Adjacency Segment Identifiers (SIDs) with

# 28 MPLS Data Planes”
[134] IETF RFC 8296: “Encapsulation for Bit Index Explicit Replication (BIER) in

# 30 MPLS and Non-MPLS Networks”
[135] IETF RFC 8317: “Ethernet-Tree (E-Tree) Support in Ethernet VPN (EVPN) and

# 32 Provider Backbone Bridging EVPN (PBB-EVPN)”
[136] IETF RFC 8366: “A Voucher Artifact for Bootstrapping Protocols” [137] IETF RFC 8370: “Techniques to Improve the Scalability of RSVP-TE

# 35 Deployments”
[138] IETF RFC 8395: “Extension to BGP-Signaled pseudowires to support flow- aware transport labels” [139] IETF RFC 8402: “Segment Routing Architecture” [140] IETF RFC 8446: “The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3” [141] IETF RFC 8476: “Signaling Maximum SID depth using OSPF” [142] IETF RFC 8491: “Signaling Maximum SID depth using IS-IS” [143] IETF RFC 8571: “BGP – Link State (BGP-LS) Advertisement of IGP Traffic

# 43 Engineering Performance Metric Extensions”
[144] IETF RFC 8572: “Secure Zero Touch Provisioning (SZTP)” [145] IETF RFC 8577: “Signaling RSVP-TE Tunnels on a Shared MPLS Forwarding

# 46 Plane”
[146] IETF RFC 8660: “Segment Routing with MPLS Dataplane” [147] IETF RFC 8661: “Segment Routing MPLS Interworking with LDP” [148] IETF RFC 8664: “PCEP Extensions for Segment Routing” ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 [149] IETF RFC 8666: “OSPFv3 Extensions for Segment Routing” [150] IETF RFC 8667: “IS-IS Extensions for Segment Routing” [151] IETF RFC 8754: “IPv6 Segment Routing Header (SRH)” [152] IETF RFC 8814: “Signaling Maximum SID Depth (MSD) Using the BGP –

# 5 Link State”
[153] IETF RFC 8907: “The Terminal Access Controller Access-Control System Plus

# 7 (TACACS+) Protocol”
[154] IETF RFC 8986: “SRv6 Network Programming” [155] IETF RFC 9085: “Border Gateway Protocol - Link State (BGP-LS) Extensions for Segment Routing” [156] IETF RFC 9136: “IP prefix Advertisements in Ethernet VPN (EVPN) [157] IETF RFC 9252: “BGP Overlay Services Based on Segment Routing over IPv6

# 13 (SRv6)”
[158] IETF RFC 9256: “Segment Routing Policy Architecture” [159] IETF RFC 9259: “Operations, Administration, and Maintenance (OAM) in

# 16 Segment Routing Networks over IPv6 (SRv6)”
[160] IETF RFC 9350: “IGP Flexible Algorithm” [161] IETF RFC 9351: “Flexible Algorithm Definition Advertisement with BGP Link-

# 19 State”
[162] IETF RFC 9352: “IS-IS Extensions to support SR over IPv6 dataplane” [163] IETF RFC 9513: “OSPFv3 Extensions for Segment Routing over IPv6 (SRv6)” [164] IETF RFC 9514: “Border Gateway Protocol - Link State (BGP-LS) Extensions [165] IETF RFC 9552: “Distribution of Link-State and Traffic Engineering

# 24 Information Using BGP”
[166] IETF RFC 9572: “Updates to EVPN Broadcast, Unknown Unicast, or Multicast

# 26 (BUM) Procedures”
[167] IETF RFC 9603: “Path Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP)

# 28 Extensions for IPv6 Segment Routing”
[168] Draft-ietf-bess-bgp-multicast-controller-12: “Controller based BGP Multicast

# 30 Signaling”
[169] Draft-ietf-bess-evpn-vpws-fxc-08: “EVPN VPWS Flexible Cross-Connect

# 32 Service”
[170] Draft-ietf-bess-evpn-mh-pa-10: “EVPN multi-homing port-active load- balancing” [171] Draft-ietf-bess-evpn-pref-df-13: “Preference-based EVPN DF Election” [172] Draft-ietf-mpls-ri-rsvp-frr-18: “Refresh-interval independent FRR facility protection” [173] Draft-ietf-pim-sr-p2mp-policy-09: “Segment Routing Point-to-Multipoint

# 39 Policy”
[174] Draft-ietf-rtgwg-segment-routing-ti-lfa-15: “Topology Independent Fast Reroute using Segment Routing” [175] Draft-ietf-pce-binding-label-sid-16: “Carrying Binding Label/Segment-ID in

# 43 PCE-based Networks”
[176] Draft-ietf-pce-segment-routing-policy-cp-16: “PCEP extension to support Segment Routing Candidate Path for Segment Routing over IPv6 (SRv6)” [177] Draft-ietf-mpls-seamless-mpls-07: “Seamless MPLS Architecture” [178] Draft-ietf-spring-srv6-srh-compression-17: “Compressed SRv6 Segment List

# 48 Encoding”
ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 [179] Draft-ietf-teas-5g-ns-ip-mpls-18: “A Realization of Network Slices for 5G

# 5 Others
[181] NGMN “5G RAN CU-DU network architecture, transport options and dimensioning, version 1.0 12 April 2019” [182] MEF 61.1: “IP Service attributes” [183] MEF 10.3: “Ethernet Service attributes” [184] MEF 6.2: “EVC service definition” [185] Broadband Forum TR-101 “Migration to Ethernet-Based Broadband

# 12 Aggregation”
[186] Broadband Forum TR-156 “Using GPON Access in the context of TR-101“ [187] ITU-R M.2083: “IMT Vision – framework and overall objectives of the future development of IMT for 2020 and beyond. [188] ITU-T GSTR-TN5G – Transport network support of IMT 2020/5G [189] ITU-T G.Sup.66 “5G wireless Fronthaul requirements in a passive optical network context” [190] ITU-T G.9807 series “10-Gigabit-capable symmetric passive optical network”, ITU-T G.989 series “40-Gigabit-capable passive optical networks (NG PON2)“,

# 21 On-going work ITU-T G.HSP
[191] ITU-T G.8271 “Time and phase synchronization aspects of telecommunication networks” [192] ITU-T G.8271.1 “Network limits for time synchronization in packet networks with full timing support from the network” [193] ITU-T G.8273.2 “Timing characteristics of telecom boundary clocks and telecom time slave clocks” [194] ITU-T G.8275.1 “Precision time protocol telecom profile for phase/time synchronization with full timing support from the network” [195] 40m Transmission of OAM mode and Polarization Multiplexing in E-band, Globcom, Dec 2019. M.Hirabe, et. Al [196] CableLabs “Low Latency Mobile Xhaul over DOCSIS Technology” https://www.cablelabs.com/specifications/CM-SP-LLX [197] CableLabs “Synchronization Techniques for DOCSIS Technology

# 35 Specification” https://www.cablelabs.com/specifications/CM-SP-SYNC
[198] CableLabs “Data-Over-Cable Service Interface Specifications 3.1, MAC and

# 37 Upper Layer Protocols Interface”
https://www.cablelabs.com/specifications/CM-SP-MULPIv3.1 [199] CableLabs “Data-Over-Cable Service Interface Specifications 4.0, MAC and

# 40 Upper Layer Protocols Interface”
https://www.cablelabs.com/specifications/CM-SP-MULPIv4.0 [200] CableLabs “Remote PHY Specification” https://www.cablelabs.com/specifications/CM-SP-R-PHY [201] “Study on new radio access technology: Radio access architecture and interfaces” 3GPP TR 38.801 Table A-1. [202] Cisco Press, MPLS and VPN Architectures, Volume 1, 420 pages, by Ivan Pepelnjak, and Jim Guichard, 2001 [203] Cisco Press, MPLS and VPN Architectures, Volume 2, 470 pages, by Ivan Pepelnjak, Jim Guichard, and Jeff Apcar, 2003 ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 [204] O’Reilly, MPLS in the SDN Era, 890 pages, by Antonio Sánchez-Monge, and Krzysztof Grzegorz Szarkowicz, 2015 [205] BBF TR-221: Technical Specification for MPLS in Mobile Backhaul Networks, 99 pages, Oct 2011 [206] BBF TR-221, Amd.1: Technical Specifications for MPLS in Mobile Backhaul Networks, 24 pages, Nov 2013 [207] BBF TR-221, Amd.2: Technical Specifications for MPLS in Mobile Backhaul Networks, 22 pages, Sep 2017 [208] ETSI GR mWT 012 V1.1.1 (2018-11): 5G Wireless Backhaul/Xhaul [209] Microwave and millimeter-wave technology overview and evolution, Workshop on Evolution of Fixed Service in Backhaul support of IMT 2020 / 5G, Geneva, 29 April 2019, https://www.itu.int/en/ITU-R/study- groups/workshops/fsimt2020/Pages/default.aspx [210] ISO/IEC 10589-2002: “Intermediate System to Intermediate System intra- domain routeing information exchange protocol for use in conjunction with the protocol for providing the connectionless-mode network service” ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 5 Definitions and abbreviations

## 5.1 Definitions
The key words “SHALL”, “SHALL NOT”, “SHOULD”, “SHOULD NOT”, “MAY”, and “OPTIONAL” in this document are to be interpreted as described in IETF RFC 2119 [25]. All key words must be in upper case, bold text. Items that are REQUIRED (contain the words SHALL or SHALL NOT) will be labelled as [Rx] for required. Items that are RECOMMENDED (contain the words SHOULD or SHOULD NOT) will be labelled as [Dx] for desirable. Items that are OPTIONAL (contain the words MAY or

# 10 OPTIONAL) will be labelled as [Ox] for optional.
Items, if supported, are not meant to be active at all times, but should be available for use. Their state (active or not active) should be based on configuration.

## 5.2 Abbreviations
Abbreviations defined in this document take precedence over the definition of 3GPP Abbreviations Meaning or explanation 3GPP Third Generation Partnership Project – Standards Development Organization 4G Fourth-generation mobile network 5G Fifth-generation mobile network ABR Area Border Router Amd Ammendment (term used by BBF) API Application Programming Interfaces ARPU Average revenue per user AS Automated (traffic) steering AS Autonomous System ASBR Autonomous System Border Router ASIC Application-Specific Integrated Circuits BBF Broadband Forum BBU Baseband unit BGP Border Gateway Protocol BGP-LU BGP labelled unicast BGP-LS BGP link state BIER Bit Indexed Explicit Replication BITS Building Integrated Timing System C-RAN Centralized Radio Access Network CA Carrier Aggregation CA Certification Authority ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 CapEx Capital expenditure CBWRED Class based Weighted Random Early Detection CDN Content delivery network CDMA Code Division Multiple-Access – a mobile radio standard CMPv2 Certificate Management Protocol version 2 COTS Commercial off the shelf CPE Customer premises equipment CPRI Common public radio interface CPU Central Processing Unit CSP Communications service provider CSR Cell Site Router CU Centralized unit CUPS Control/User Plane Separation D-RAN Distributed Radio Access Network DB Dynamic Bandwidth assignment DC Data center DDR-RAM Double Data Rate Synchronous Dynamic Random-Access Memory DHCP Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol DHCPv4 Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol for IPv4 hosts DHCPv6 Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol for IPv6 hosts DiffServ Differentiated services – a quality-of-service mechanism DSCP DiffServ Code Point DWDM Dense Wavelength Division Multiplexing EAP Extensible Authentication Protocol ECMP Equal-cost multipath eCPRI Enhanced Common Radio Interface (CPRI) eMBB Enhanced mobile broadband eNB Enhanced Node B EPC Evolved packet core ESMC Ethernet Synchronization Message Channel EVPN Ethernet VPN EXP Experimental FDD Frequency division duplexing FHG Fronthaul Gateway FIB Fabric Interface Board FIB Forwarding Information Base FIFO First In, First Out FMC Fixed-mobile convergence FMC Fixed-mobile convergence ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 FQDN Fully Qualified Domain Name FPGA Field Programmable Gateway Array Fronthaul Portion of the mobile network supporting O-RAN 7.2x, eCPRI, RoE or CPRI protocols FRR Fast Re-Route Gbps Gigabits per second GNSS Global Navigation Satellite System (example being GPS) GPS Global Positioning System HLS High-level split HSR Hub Site Router IANA Internet Assigned Numbers Authority iBGP internal Border Gateway Protocol IEC International Electrotechnical Commission IEEE Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers – Standards Development Organization IETF Internet Engineering Task Force – Standards Development Organization IGP Interior Gateway Protocol IoT Internet of Things (see also mMTC) IP Internet Protocol IPoDWDM Internet Protocol over Dense Wavelength Division Multiplexing IPsec Internet Protocol Security IS-IS Intermediate System to Intermediate System ISO International Standardization Organization ITU-T International Telecommunication Union-Telecommunication – Standards Development Organization ITU-R International Telecommunication Union-Radiocommunication – Standards Development Organization JSON JavaScript Object Notation L1 / L2 / L3 Layer 1 / layer 2 / layer 3 of the network protocol stack L3VPN Layer 3 Virtual Private Network LC Line Card LDP Label Distribution Protocol LLS Low-level splits LSDB Link state database LSP Label Switched Path LTE Long Term Evolution (generation of Mobile networks – see 4G) LTE-A Long Term Evolution – Advanced MEC Formerly Mobile Edge Compute, now Multi-Access Edge Compute mMTC Massive machine type communications MIMO Multiple-Input Multiple-Output (number of antennas) MNO Mobile Network Operator MP-BGP Multi-protocol Border Gateway Protocol MPLS Multiprotocol Label Switching ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 MSD Maximum Segment Depth MVNO Mobile virtual network operator NAT Network Address Translation NETCONF Network Configuration Protocol NLRI Network Layer Reachability Information NFV Network functions virtualization NGFI Next-generation Fronthaul interface NPU Network Processing Unit NR New radio NSI Network Slice Instance NSSI Network Subnet Slice Instance NTP Network Time Protocol O-CU Open Central Unit O-DU Open Distributed Unit O-RU Open Radio Unit OAM Operations, administration, and maintenance ODN On-demand next hop ODN Optical Distribution Network OLT Optical Line Termination ONU Optical Network Unit OpEx Operational expenses ORF Outbound Route Filter OSPF Open Shortest Path First OTN Optical Transport Networking

# P Provider (router)
PCC Path computation client PCE Path computation element PCEP Path computation element protocol PE Provider edge (router) PFE Packet Forwarding Engine PHY Physical Layer PIM Protocol for IP Multicast PKI Public Key Infrastructure PoE Power over Ethernet PON Passive Optical Network PSU Power Supply Unit PTP Precision Time Protocol QoS Quality of Service RA Registration Authority ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 RAM Random-Access Memory RAN Radio access network RE Radio equipment RE Routing Engine REC Radio equipment controller RoE Radio over Ethernet RRO Record Route Object RRU Remote Radio Unit RSVP Resource Reservation Protocol RSVP-TE Resource Reservation Protocol – Traffic Engineering RT Route Target RTT Round-trip times RU Rack unit RU Remote (radio) unit RX Receive SD-WAN Software-defined wide area network SDH Synchronous Digital Hierarchy – a digital communications system SDN Software-defined networks SerDes Serialize and Deserialize SID Segment Identifier SLA Service level agreement SMB Small and medium business SONET Synchronous Optical Networking – a digital communications system SPF Shortest Path First SR Segment Routing SR-DPM Segment Routing-data plane management SR-TE Segment Routing – traffic engineering SR-PCE Segment Routing – path computation element SRH Segment Routing header SIB Switch Interface Board SRLG Shared risk link groups SSH Secure Shell SSU Synchronization Supply Unit SyncE Synchronous Ethernet T-GM Telecom – Grand Master – a PTP clock type T-TSC Telecom – Time Slave Clock – a PTP clock type TAE Time Alignment Error TC Traffic Class TDD Time-division duplexing – a radio communications technique ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 TDM Time division multiplexing TE Traffic engineering TE Time Error TI-LFA Topology-independent loop-free alternative TLS Transport Layer Security TLV Type-Length-Value TNE Transport Network Equipment (an O-RAN term to denote a transport device) ToD Time of the Day TR Technical report TTL Time to live TWDM Time and Wavelength Domain Multiplexing TX Transmit UE User equipment URLLC Ultra-reliable low-latency communications UPF User plane functions VIM Virtualized infrastructure managers VNF Virtual network function(s) VPN Virtual private networks VRF Virtual Routing and Forwarding WAN Wide area network WDM Wavelength Division Multiplexing Xhaul Collective name for Fronthaul, Midhaul, and Backhaul XML eXtensible Markup Language YANG Yet another next generation – data modelling language ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 6 Transport network Reference Design and Requirements

## 6.1 Reference Design and Terminology
Following the boundaries outlined in previous sections, Figure 6-1 introduces a segmentation of connectivity between O-RAN NF for packet Networks based on management perimeters. The following terms are also introduced:
- Transport Network Equipment (TNE): any node in the Transport Network (e.g. routers,
switches).
- Edge Transport Network Equipment (E-TNE): the Edge TNE is a TNE that terminates
an Attachment Circuit (e.g. a PE router)
- Edge Site Equipment (E-SE): the Edge Site Equipment terminates the Attachment Circuit
within the O-RAN site to connect to the Transport Network (e.g. O-CLOUD gateway or a

# 14 Network Function).
- Attachment Circuit (AC): the AC is a logical connection that attaches the Edge Site and
the Transport Network Equipment. The AC serves as a demarcation between the TN and the

# 17 O-RAN domains.
- Bearer: a physical or logical link that connects an Edge Site Equipment to the Transport
Network. A bearer can be a wireless or wired link. The bearer refers to the underlying connection for the provisioning of an Attachment Circuit (e.g. a physical Ethernet connection on which an AC is configured thanks to vlan). One or multiple attachment circuits may be hosted over the same bearer (e.g., multiple VLANs on the same bearer realized by a physical link).
- O-Cloud and TN Segment: segment of the logical connectivity realized respectively within
O-Cloud and Transport Network domains. The O-Cloud segment is optional since the NF may directly attach to the TN via the AC.
- O-RAN Site: the O-RAN Site refers to a location - physical or logical - hosting one or more
O-RAN components (e.g., O-RU, O-DU, O-CU) and may include elements of the O-Cloud.

# 31 Figure 6-1: Reference Design for TN integration (logical)

# 33 Notes
ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00
- This representation is a logical view, whereby left and right components (i.e., TNE, AC, E-

# 13 WG6.
O-RAN WG9 O-RAN WG6 IETF Transport Network Transport Network Provider Network TNE TNE Edge TNE PE Provider Edge O-RAN Site O-CLOUD site Customer Site Edge Site Equipment O-CLOUD Gateway Customer Edge Network Function Attachment Circuit Attachment Circuit Attachment Circuit Bearer Bearer Bearer

# 16 Figure 6-2: Mapping Table for IETF terminology alignment

## 6.2 Transport Network Requirements
For full details of the O-RAN transport requirements, bandwidth and delay estimates of a 5G network see [20]. Requirements for the transport architecture can be characterized in following categories: 1. Latency, Frame Loss Ratio and Bandwidth requirements for Fronthaul, Midhaul, and Backhaul. 2. Operability requirements that include fault and performance management.

# 26 3. Synchronization requirements.
4. “ITU-T GSTP-TN5G: Transport support of IMT-2020/5G” [188] identifies the need for the transport to be multi-service in nature. In addition to mobile services, the infrastructure needs to support fixed line consumer and enterprise services. These services are not explicitly covered in the document, but the architecture must enable L2 or L3 services to be created between any two edge TNEs regardless of relative position to each other in the transport network. 5. End to end support of 4G/5G mobile infrastructure including Fronthaul / Midhaul / Backhaul. 6. Concurrent support for RAN deployment scenarios outlined in “ITU-T GSTP-TN5G: Transport support of IMT-2020/5G” [188] running from a single cell site location. These shown in Figure 6-3 are: a. Co-located O-CU and O-DU – O-RAN split 7.2x from cell site ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 b. Independent O-RU, O-CU, O-DU locations – O-RAN 7.2x from cell site c. O-RU and O-DU integration on cell site – O-RAN split 2 from cell site d. O-RU, O-DU and O-CU integration on cell sites – Split 1 from cell site

# 6 Figure 6-3: ITU-T 5G use cases
7. Central, distributed or a mix of the two for user plane termination. Central, distributed or a mix of two for 5G control plane placement. (Figure 6-4) Figure 6-4: 5G central and distributed user plane termination 8. Concurrent support for 4G and 5G RAN solutions running from a single cell site. In addition to the use cases outlined in earlier figures, support for 4G radios running alongside 5G radios is required. Figure 6-5 illustrates the two 4G architectures that need to co-exist with the 5G architectures outlined above. In the upper case, the 4G RAN infrastructure utilizes a C-RAN architecture where the RRH and BBU support split 8 which is converted to 7.2x or RoE for ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 transportation across the packet access infrastructure. In the lower case, the 4G RAN infrastructure uses D-RAN or split 1 architecture.

# 5 Figure 6-5: 4G use cases
9. End to end support for 5G slicing and 5G service types.

# 7 5G logical connectivity requirements
The transport network needs to be very flexible as depending on the use case and the RAN design each part of the physical transport network may need to support multiple slices, multiple 5G services and also different 3GPP interfaces. This section covers the logical transport connectivity requirements of the 5G Fronthaul, Midhaul and Backhaul components. Further details can be found in O-RAN WG9.Transport Requirements document [20].

## 7.1 Fronthaul

# 16 The Fronthaul infrastructure potentially needs to support:

# 17 • O-RAN 7.2x Fronthaul (for 5G NR)

# 18 • Non-ORAN Fronthaul

# 20 7.1.1 O-RAN 7.2x Fronthaul
The O-RAN 7.2x is a split 7 “Low Level Split” (LLS) that runs between the O-RU and the O-DU (optional more than one for network and DU based redundancy). The associated mobile interfaces for the Fronthaul are the Control, User and Synchronization and Management planes. The synchronization plane is covered in a separate WG-9 Timing and Synchronization Architecture and solutions document [22]. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 Figure 7-1: Fronthaul O-RAN 7.2x control and user plane using an Ethernet encapsulation

# 5 Figure 7-2: O-RAN 7.2x Hybrid Management plane
- O-RAN 7.2x Control and User planes: These interfaces are described in O-
RAN.WG4.CUS.0-v09.00: Control, User and Synchronization Plane Specification [18]. These interfaces run between the O-RUs and their serving O-DU. Ethernet encapsulation is a mandatory requirement and IP encapsulation is optional and applies if the transmitting and receiving nodes support IP capabilities. In both cases the payload is one or more eCPRI transport headers with respective application data. The latency requirements associated with 7.2x control plane and user plane traffic are very low, and the bandwidth requirements are generally high but vary based on the level of user data traffic being transmitted.
- O-RAN 7.2x Synchronization plane: This interface is described in O-RAN.WG4.CUS.0-
v9.00: Control, User and Synchronization Plane Specification [18]. In C-RAN architectures accurate synchronization between the O-DU and O-RUs is required to support “Time Division Duplex” (TDD), Carrier Aggregation (CA) using multiple O-RUs, MIMO and other processes. In an O-RAN Fronthaul environment using an Ethernet transport layer, protocols such as PTP ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 and SyncE are used to achieve synchronization between the O-RUs and O-DUs. For more details refer to WG-9 Timing and Synchronization Architecture and solutions document [22].
- O-RAN 7.2x Management plane: This interface is described in O-RAN.WG4.MP.0-v09.00

# 4 Management plane specification[19]. Two M-Plane models are defined.
o Hierarchical model: In this model, an O-RU is managed by one of more O-DUs. These O-DUs are entirely responsible for sub-ordinate O-RUs, which means the NMS only needs to interact with the O-DU level. In this mode the O-RAN 7.2x M-Plane interface only runs between the O-DU and sub-ordinate O-RUs. o Hybrid model: In this model, an O-RU is managed by one or more NMSs, in addition to the serving O-DU. In this mode the O-RAN 7.2x M-Plane interface runs between the O-

# 11 RUs, O-DUs and the NMS.
The O-RAN 7.2x M-plane uses IP/NETCONF and the basic transport requirement is end-to-end IP connectivity between the O-RU and the elements managing it. IPv4 shall be supported as a mandatory transport protocol for M-Plane and IPv6 support is optional.

# 16 7.1.2 O-RAN Fronthaul logical transport requirements
Details of the O-RAN transport requirements are illustrated in Figure 7-1.

# 18 C/U-Planes:
1. Ethernet connectivity from O-RUs to serving O-DU with potential backup to a redundant O-

# 20 DU.
2. Optional IP connectivity from O-RUs to serving O-DU with potential backup to a redundant

# 22 O-DU.
3. O-RUs and serving O-DU in close proximity to each other to meet delay criteria associated with Fronthaul. It is unlikely the Fronthaul components (ie O-RUs and serving O-DU) will extend beyond the access transport network.

# 27 S-Plane:
1. This is covered in the “WG-9 Timing and Synchronization Architecture and Solutions document [22].

# 31 M-Plane
Details of the O-RAN M-Plane transport running in hybrid mode are illustrated in Figure 7-2. 1. IP connectivity allowing NMS to communicate with O-DUs and O-RUs if running the hybrid model. 2. IP connectivity allowing serving O-DU to communicate with all its sibling O-RUs if running in either hybrid or hierarchical models. Note: In addition to the 7.2x management plane other management components may need to communicate with entities at the cell site. For example, remote monitoring of sensors and actuators in the cell site. These are not explicitly covered in this document, but the specified transport architecture can cater for scenarios, where management and monitoring, are based on either

# 43 Ethernet or IP connectivity.

## 7.2 Non-ORAN Fronthaul
Legacy Fronthaul scenarios are those C-RAN use cases where the Fronthaul traffic is transported over a packet switch network while not using the O-RAN compliant encapsulation protocol that ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 supports 7.2x split. The two most likely legacy Fronthaul scenario in a packet switched transport network are:
- eCPRI based C-RAN solutions: using eCPRI encapsulation protocol not compliant to O-
RAN WG4 CUS specifications [18]. i.e., a non O-RAN 7.2x split.
- RoE based C-RAN solutions: CPRI encapsulated by the RoE protocol.

# 8 7.2.1 eCPRI based C-RAN solutions
An operator may choose a packet-based C-RAN Fronthaul architecture that is not O-RAN 7.2x compliant. In this case the RU and DU uses eCPRI as the packet encapsulation protocol to packetize the Fronthaul data but implements a non-O-RAN compliant radio message protocol to support a different function split. Following 3GPP recommendation [9], the possible function splits may include
- Option 6, split between MAC and PHY layers
- Option 7.1, 7.2, or 7.3, splits within PHY layer
- Option 8, split between radio and PHY layer

# 19 7.2.2 Radio over Ethernet (RoE) based C-RAN solutions
In this scenario an operator has an existing radio deployed at the cell site and the operator intends to convert these radios to support a C-RAN Fronthaul architecture whilst implementing their 5G RAN infrastructure. In this case it is likely the legacy equipment (RRH and BBU) only supports an optical CPRI interfaces. To implement a C-RAN Fronthaul architecture in a packet switched transport network the CPRI needs to be converted to an Ethernet frame at the cell site, transported over the access network as packet and then get converted back to CPRI at the hub for processing from the BBU. In this scenario a component called a RoE mapper is used to perform a CPRI to Ethernet frame conversion at the cell site and an Ethernet frame to CPRI conversion at the location where the BBU is located.

# 29 7.2.2.1 RoE Mapper transport
The design, implementation, management, and interface from the RoE mapper to the legacy equipment is not in the scope of WG-9 but the expectation is the RoE mapper will present either O- RAN 7.2x compliant Ethernet or Ethernet IP packets or IEEE 1914.3 Radio over Ethernet packets [38] to the transport network. At this time O-RAN has not defined a CPRI to O-RAN 7.2x conversion capability so implementations out in the market are based on CPRI to Radio Over

# 35 Ethernet.
It is then the responsibility of the transport network to transport these packets to their destination with appropriate characteristics for the legacy connection to function.

# 39 7.2.2.2 Radio over Ethernet
Radio over Ethernet (RoE) is defined in IEEE Std 1914.3-2018 – IEEE standard for radio over Ethernet Encapsulations and Mappings [38]. Two mapping techniques for supporting CPRI to packet conversion are defined.

# 44 Structure-agnostic RoE mapper
ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 The structure-agnostic RoE mapper captures bits from one end of a constant bit rate link, packetizes the bits into Ethernet frames, sends the frames across the network, and then recreates the bit stream at the far end of the link. While the constant bit-rate data stream is commonly encoded with the CPRI protocol, it could also be of any other protocol, provided it is within the range of data rates supported by that equipment. The structure-agnostic RoE mapper has two main modes of operation:
- Tunnelling mode or type 0 works as a simple Ethernet tunnel. It does not remove any line
coding bits and does not interpret any special characters (such as K-characters). If the source data is 8b/10b-encoded, the 10-bit symbols present on the line will be tunnelled by this RoE mapper as 10 bits of data. Similarly, 66-bit symbols will be sent for 64b/66b-encoded data as 66 bits of data. The entire stream is simply packetized.
- Line-coding-aware mode or type 1 removes the line coding bits such as for CPRI encoded
with 8b/10b or 64b/66b. If the source data is 8b/10b-encoded, the 8-bit symbols present on the line will be tunnelled by this RoE mapper as 8 bits of data. Similarly, if the source data is 64b/66b encoded, the 64-bit symbols present on the line will be tunnelled by this RoE mapper as 64 bits of data. To allow the restoration of the 10-bit or 66-bit symbols at the de- mapper, the RoE mapper/de-mapper must have some awareness of the protocol it is mapping/de-mapping; the locations of the special characters must be known a priori relative to an event that is indicated in the RoE frame.

# 23 Structure-aware RoE mapper
In this mode only the useful information in the CPRI stream is packetized into the RoE frames and different types of data (such as control words and data words) can be encapsulated into separate frames for prioritized processing. Those unused fields within the CPRI stream will be ignored thus bring the benefit of Fronthaul BW reduction. This mode requires full knowledge of the protocol layout of the CPRI and due to the proprietary nature of CPRI will require input from the radio vendor.

# 30 7.2.3 Non O-RAN Fronthaul logical transport requirements
The main use case identified by operators for non O-RAN fronthaul is 4G equipment that uses CPRI between the RRH and the BBU (see section 8.4). To support this over a packet based fronthaul network, the CPRI stream needs to be packetized as it ingresses the packet network and the CPRI stream reconstructed as it egresses the packet network. Bandwidth, delay and jitter characteristics in the packet network clearly depend on the technology used to perform this function, which is outside the scope of O-RAN. To provide some guidance on support of this traffic it has been assumed that it is presented as Ethernet and has similar delay and jitter requirements as

# 38 7.2x fronhaul traffic.

## 7.3 Midhaul logical transport requirements
3GPP TS 38.401 [9] defines the de-aggregated RAN, it’s characteristics and outlines the F1-U, F1-C and E1 interfaces. Figure 7-3, taken from 3GPP TS 38.401 illustrates the components and interfaces. The Midhaul transport infrastructure is responsible for supporting these interfaces. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 4 The characteristics of a disaggregated gNB are:
- A gNB may consist of a gNB-CU-CP, multiple gNB-CU-UPs and multiple gNB-DUs
- DUs and CU-UPs are connected to one CU-CP via the E1 interface or the F1-C interface

# 7 • DUs can connect to multiple CU-UPs

# 8 • Multiple CU-UPs can connect to one CU-CP
- For resiliency reasons, DUs and CU-UPs may connect to multiple CU-CPs
The 3GPP interface associated with O-DU and O-CU communication is the F1 interface. It has a control (F1-C) and data (F1-U) plane component. Note: W1 interface is the 4G equivalent of the F1 interface. It will not be discussed further in this document as its characteristics are expected to be like the 5G equivalent. The 3GPP interfaces associated with intra O-CU communications is the E1 interfaces. It runs between the gNB-CU-CP and a gNB-CU-UP. It allows these two components to run as separate entities and potentially in different locations.

# 20 7.3.1 Overall Midhaul logical transport requirements

# 21 1. Control Plane:
a. Multi-point at the IP interfaces level (IPv4 or IPv6) between O-CU-CP and multiple

# 23 O-DUs (F1-C interface).
b. Multi-point at the IP interfaces level (IPv4 or IPv6) between O-CU-CP and multiple

# 25 O-CU-UPs (E1 interface).
2. Data Plane: Multi-point at the IP interfaces level (IPv4 or IPv6) between O-CU-UP and multiple O-DUs (F1-U interface).

# 28 3. IP connectivity between O-CUs for Xn interface.
4. Some operators may wish to run the user plane interface (F1-U) separately from the control plane interfaces (E1 and F1-C). 5. Some operators may wish to treat Midhaul and Backhaul as a single logical network. 6. Some operators may wish to treat Midhaul and Backhaul as discrete logical networks.

## 7.4 Backhaul logical transport requirements
Figure 7-4 shows components and the 3GPP interfaces in the mobile Backhaul. It has a control plane and user plane component. It is not uncommon to see the control plane and the data plane divided into separate closed user groups (VPNs) at the transport layer to ensure a clear demarcation between customer user data and the 3GPP control plane. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 Figure 7-4: 5G Backhaul components and interfaces Source: Adapted from 3GPP TS 23.501 v6.4.0(2020-03): System Architecture for 5G [1] with control plane / user plane shading added by document authors.

# 7 The 5G 3GPP interfaces associated with Backhaul are:
- N1 interface is a logical control plane interface between the mobile core network and the UE.
From a physical perspective it flows via the RAN through the Backhaul infrastructure to the AMF. It is a signalling interface between the UE and the AMF.
- N2 interface supports control plane signalling between RAN and 5G core. It is primarily
concerned with connection management, UE context and PDU session management, and UE mobility management. In addition, Non-Access Spectrum (NAS) signalling between the UE and the AMF is transported over the N2 connection for that UE. This signalling includes information regarding access control, authentication and authorization, and session management procedures.
- N4 Interface is the bridge between the control plane and the user plane of the 5GC. It runs
between the SMF and the UPF and is responsible for conveying policy rules regarding policy handling, forwarding and usage reporting to the UPF.
- N3 interface is the user plane interface between the O-CU component of the (gNB) and the
initial UPF.
- N9 interface is a user plane interface than runs between two UPFs. (i.e. an intermediate UPF
and the UPF session anchor).

# 30 7.4.1 Overall Backhaul logical transport requirements
1. Control Plane: Multi-point at the IP interfaces level (IPv4 or IPv6) between O-CU, UPF and

# 32 5GC components (N1, N2, N4, Xn-c).
2. User Plane: Multi-point at the IP interfaces level (IPv4 or IPv6) between O-CU→UPF

# 34 (N3), UPF→UPF (N9) and O-CU→O-CU (Xn-u).
3. Some operators may wish to run the Backhaul user plane (N3/N9) separate from the

# 36 Backhaul control plane (N1/N2/N4).
4. Some operators may wish to treat Midhaul and Backhaul as a single logical network. 5. Some operators may wish to treat Midhaul and Backhaul as discrete logical networks. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 8 Operator’s use cases
Operators have indicated the following use cases are of interest. Any combination of these scenarios may apply in practical deployments though they are described individually. Unless otherwise stated, the eCPRI traffic herein is O-RAN compliant and presents the data according to O-RAN Open Fronthaul CUS plane and management plane specifications [18][19]. Multicast use cases are deferred to section 15.1, after logical network and services have been described, so that they can be provided with better background. Before describing the individual deployment scenarios, it is worth clarifying the terminology of C- RAN vs. D-RAN. In a 5G Distributed RAN (D-RAN) architecture, the O-CU, O-DU, and O-RU all reside at the cell site (Figure 8-1).

# 16 Figure 8-1 5G O-RAN D-RAN architecture
5G Centralized RAN (C-RAN) architectures splits the radio components into discrete components which can be in different locations. In 5G O-RAN model (Figure 8-2), operators may decide to only place the O-RU at the cell site, and centralize the O-DUs or the O-DUs together with O-CU in a central location. The other alternative can be represented by locating the O-RUs and O-DUs at the cell-site and centralizing the O-CUs in a location farther away.

# 27 Figure 8-2 5G O-RAN C-RAN architectures
ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 When considering a C-RAN architecture there are both positive and negative impacts. On the positive side, it can increase component efficiency by pooling RAN elements in a centralised location and improve co-ordination between the radio component. On the negative side a C-RAN architecture can significantly increase the bandwidth required if the Fronthaul protocols are traversing the transport network. Note: The representation of the access and aggregation networks in the use case figures below are not to scale. In scenarios where a Fronthaul component exists, the access network will be geographically constrained due to delay requirements of the Fronthaul protocols. In contrast, the aggregation network in the figures can cover much greater areas due to more relaxed delay requirements of the 5G Midhaul and Backhaul protocols.

## 8.1 Scenario 1: C-RAN architecture with collocated O-DU and O-CU
As illustrated in Figure 8-3 for this scenario, O-DU and O-CU are collocated at a Hub site, therefore the Midhaul traffic between O-DU and O-CU is local and not going through the transport network. The eCPRI traffic from the 7.2x split from the O-RU, is transported by a packet switched access transport network to the C-RAN Hub. At the other end of the C-RAN Hub, the aggregation transport network transports the Backhaul traffic to the mobile core. The O-RU can be a new NR radio as well as a legacy LTE radio, as long as they are made to have the O-RAN compliant Fronthaul interface with 7.2x function split. The Xn traffic that performs the inter-gNB coordination is considered as part of Midhaul traffic, but it will not reach to the Core. Instead, it is routed to another O-CU, either within the same Hub site or between the Hub sites, via the aggregation transport network. There is inter-connection between the access and aggregation transport networks for the passing through services such as management traffic. In some cases, the two transport networks can share a same edge router that naturally completes the connection. Figure 8-3: Scenario 1 – C-RAN architecture with collocated O-DU and O-CU ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

## 8.2 Scenario 2: C-RAN architecture with collocated O-RU and O-DU
In this scenario, both O-RU and O-DU are deployed at the cell site and O-CU is located at the Hub site. By 3GPP standard, the O-DU and O-CU is split by the functional split option 2 and connected with F1 interface, which is transported by the access transport network that connects the cell site and the Hub site. The aggregation transport network carries the N2/N3 Backhaul traffic to the 5G core. O-RU and O-DU may be collocated or be in close proximity around the cell site. In both cases, O- RU and O-DU communicate to each other by the Fronthaul interfaces via the Cell Site Router (CSR), which is located at the cell site and is considered as part of access transport network, as shown in Figure 8-4 Figure 8-4: Scenario 2 – C-RAN architecture with collocated O-RU and O-DU
> NOTE: In this scenario the location of the CSR, O-DU and O-RU relative to each other may be
close or in some scenarios more distant. For example, within a stadium environment, the O-DU could be centralised and the O-RUs distributed around the stadium. In all cases consideration needs to be given to the low latency requirements associated with the Fronthaul interfaces.

## 8.3 Scenario 3: C-RAN architecture with coexistence of legacy Backhaul
traffic This scenario is an extension of Scenario 1, or Scenario 2, where 3G / 4G D-RAN deployments coexist with a 5G C-RAN deployment. The access transport network thus carries the Backhaul traffic from LTE (S1) or 3G UMTS (lu/lub) in addition to the Fronthaul traffic from Scenario 1, or Midhaul traffic from Scenario 2, as illustrated in Figure 8-5 and Figure 8-6 respectively. The aggregation transport network is responsible for carrying the Backhaul traffic for both new and legacy mobile services. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 Figure 8-5 Scenario 3a – 7.2x interface combined with legacy Backhaul at access layer Figure 8-6: Scenario 3b – Midhaul combined legacy Backhaul at access layer These mixed D-RAN and C-RAN scenarios are important for the brown field deployment.

## 8.4 Scenario 4: C-RAN architecture with coexistence of legacy Fronthaul
traffic In this scenario, shown in Figure 8-7, both the 4G and 5G networks utilise a C-RAN Fronthaul deployment in the access transport network. In this scenario it is assumed the 4G radio infrastructure consists of RRHs communicating with their serving BBU using CPRI. To migrate these services to a packet based Fronthaul, the native CPRI is converted to packets as it enters the packet infrastructure and converted from packets back to native CPRI as it egresses the packet infrastructure. This scenario assumes the CPRI to packet conversion function is performed by an ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 RoE Mapper using the IEEE 1914.3 standard [38]. The RoE mapper is out of scope of this specification. The impact on the access transport network is it carries 7.2x and RoE fronthaul traffic. In the Backhaul network, S1 from LTE is transported together with NR Backhaul N2/N3. Figure 8-7: Scenario 4 – C-RAN architecture with coexistence of legacy Fronthaul traffic This scenario is important to support migration plan from 4G to 5G, such as the NSA architecture.

## 8.5 Scenario 5: C-RAN architecture with further split of O-DU and O-CU
This is a C-RAN architecture with two RAN splits with the O-RUs, O-DUs, and O-CUs hosted at separate locations. The O-DU is placed at C-RAN Hub site closer to the cell sites for shorter latency and the O-CU is more centralized at a different location as shown in Figure 8-8. The Midhaul traffic, identified as F1 from the 3GPP option 2 split, is carried by an addition transport network segment (pre-aggregation transport network) that connects the two hub sites. Similar to other use cases, the Backhaul traffic is transported by the aggregation transport network. Figure 8-8: Scenario 5 – Dual split C-RAN architecture ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

## 8.6 Scenario 6: C-RAN architecture with local breakout
In supporting URLLC to reduce the data plane latency, or fixed wireless application to offload large amounts of user data locally, the User Plane Function (UPF) breakouts before the aggregation network. In this case the aggregation network only carries the control plane traffic N2 (Figure 8-9). Figure 8-9: Scenario 6 – C-RAN architecture with local user plane breakout

## 8.7 Scenario 7: Transport slicing
An O-RAN wide initiative to develop end-to-end O-RAN slicing solutions has started, led by WG- 1. The architecture and phasing are defined in O-RAN.WG1.Slicing-Architecture-v07.00 [25] and is based on operator use cases and the slicing capability of the O-RAN components. This operator scenario will now track the phasing and slicing use cases developed by WG-1. Revision 2 of this document now includes Annex F: Transport network slicing solution for WG1 Slicing (informational), which define an example transport solution for slice phase 1 contained in

# 15 O-RAN.WG1.Slicing-Architecture-v07.00 [25].
From the operator use case given in previous subsection, it is observed that the transport network, especially the access transport network, may experience all types of transport flows simultaneously when operators have the need to engage mixed use cases in their deployment. Possible transport service range widely with:

# 21 • Fronthaul, Midhaul, and Backhaul

# 22 • NR, legacy LTE and legacy UMTS

# 23 • Control plan, User plane, and Management plane

# 24 • To support transport operation for different operators
- To support different types of end-to-end services or applications (such as URLLC and
eMBB) Each of them may be multiplexed into a commonly shared transport network with largely different transport requirements, which include latency, throughput, transmission reliability. To reduce complexity and manage network resource more efficiently, these transport flows can be classified into transport slices according to common service requirements. One example is shown in

# 33 Table 1.
ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 Transport Description Transport flows Transport BW Transport Transport Slices timing reliability sensitivity TS 1 Fronthaul 7.2x CUS-plane, High High High RoE TS 2_1 Data plane for F1-U, S1-U, N3, Medium High High Backhaul of X2/Xn-U URLLC service of Operator A TS 2_2 Data plane for F1-U, S1-U, N3, Medium Medium High Midhaul, X2/Xn-U Backhaul of Operator B TS 3 Control plane for 7.2x M-Plane, Low Low Low Midhaul, F1-C, S1-C, N2, Backhaul, X2/Xn-C, Management Management plane

# 4 Table 1 Transport slicing example
The above transport slice may further split into more sub-slices if necessary, for different end-to- bandwidth. These transport slices are designed to meet the objectives:
- Provide the transport elements to support network slicing. As part of network sub-network
instances, the transport network interfaces with other network segments by the transport slices.
- Allow flexible configuration to efficiently support adding/deleting/reconfiguring slices and
services

# 16 • Support protection/isolation/prioritization mechanisms to minimize inter-slice effects

# 17 • Support monitoring/reporting the slice KPIs
With reference to the network slicing use cases described in WG1 network slicing specification document [25], Figure 8-10 presents a transport realization example in supporting the phase 1 scope summarized in Annex F: Transport network slicing solution for WG1 Slicing (informational). This is based on the dual split transport architecture (scenario 5) combined with scenario 3b described in previous sections. The purpose of this example is to illustrate a practical scenario of traffic distribution in a slicing transport network. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 10 O-DU hub sites
- Core-HSR: Hub Site Router at Core site that aggregate traffic from multiple O-CU hub sites
The logical link across the Access transport network between cell site and C-RAN hub is seen with complex traffic types: fronthaul, midhaul, and backhaul are mixed. Specifically, following traffic flows are jointly transported cross the transport:

# 17 UP: 7.2x C/U-P, S1-U, F1-U, X2/Xn-U

# 18 CP: S1-C, F1-C, X2/Xn-C

# 19 MP: 7.2x M-P, O1, E2
At the Pre-aggregation transport network, there is no presence of the fronthaul anymore. Those traffics are merged and carried by the network

# 24 UP: S1-U, F1-U, X2/Xn-U

# 25 CP: S1-C, F1-C, X2/Xn-C

# 26 MP: O1, E2
At the aggregation transport network, only backhaul traffic are distributed to UPFs that may be geographically separated for eMBB and mMTC/NB-IOT:

# 31 UP: N3, N9, S1-U

# 32 CP: N2, S1-C

# 33 MP: O1, E2
The transport solutions provided in this specification, as described in section 18 and Annex F: Transport network slicing solution for WG1 Slicing (informational) are expected to provide adequate toolbox to achieve prioritization, isolation, QoS, and configuration objectives in managing the above transport scenarios. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 9 Overall packet switched Open Xhaul architecture
There are different ways packet switching could be deployed to support an Open Xhaul architecture. Factors include:
- Span of the packet switching components. Packet switching could be deployed from cell
site to the transport core or mixed with other technologies, for example WDM in access, to form the end-to-end network.
- The nature of the underlying L0/L1transport used by the packet switching equipment.
- The network protocols used at the packet switching layer.
- How Xhaul services are built on the Xhaul infrastructure.

## 9.1 Physical layout and xHaul transport options
A simple model illustrated in Figure 9-1 relies on an end-to-end packet-based transport architecture that builds on a physical network. In this model, Fronthaul, Midhaul and Backhaul deploy packet- based transport technologies. The diagram represents a logical view of the network. The physical network implementation might be different. For example, an O-DU might be connected to a single TNE port but deliver two logical connections to a second TNE in Fronthaul network, and a third

# 17 TNE in Midhaul network.
Figure 9-1 Packet based architecture in front-, mid- and Backhaul networks Unlike the previous architecture some operators may decide to use the packet-based technology only in Mid- and Backhaul, and use simple physical networking to connect the O-DU ports with O- RUs (Figure 9-2). In this case the physical network between the O-RUs and O-DUs could, in the simplest case could be dark fiber links. The next choice in terms of simplicity can be a passive

# 26 WDM system.
Figure 9-2: Packet based architecture in mid and Backhaul networks Another architectural variant (Figure 9-3) can be designed by inserting TDM based layer 1 transport technologies between the packet-based and physical networks. OTN and SPN/G.mtn are two choices that allow for aggregation and transparent transport of larger traffic volumes, and design of hard slicing architectures. In this architecture, the OTN or SPN/G.mtn infrastructure must present O O -R -R U U -2 -2 x x T T N N E E F F ro ro n n th th a a u u l l T T N N E E O x O x M id h a u l

# T N E T N E O -C U -D U

# W D M , P O N , W ire le s s , D O C S IS M id h a u l

# T N E T N E O -C U -D U

# T N

# T N
e tw o , IP E E rk B B : aN aN c k h

## 9.2 Open Xhaul architecture in revision 1 and 2
Revision 1,2 and 3 of this document describes a packet switched transport architecture illustrated in

# 16 Figure 9-4.

# 19 Figure 9-4 Packet switched transport for mobile Xhaul
It is a converged end to end packet switched infrastructure, beginning at the cell site, located in the edge of the access layer and stretching to the core of the transport layer. The packet switching TNEs are QoS enabled, high capacity, low latency devices interconnected by point-to-point Ethernet interfaces running at the full capacity of the Ethernet interface, typically using either point to point fibres or via a WDM infrastructure. It incorporates data centers suitably placed across the transport network infrastructure to support virtual and physical NFs associated with mobile and fixed services but also potentially the placement of “Application Functions” associated with value-add services and customer specific application.

# O -R U T N E
F ro e C P (7 .2 n th a

# R I
x ) u l OS

# T N

# T N

# P N
E ,

# O -D U
x W D M M id h a u l

# T N E T N E

# O T N ,

# S P N
P h y s ic a l N e tw o rk : , P O N , W iire le s s , D O C S IS

# O -C U T N E
B a N c k h

# T N ,

# P N

# T N E

# 5 G C
ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 The logical architecture is based on a common underlay packet switching infrastructure based on either MPLS or SRv6 overlaid with a L2 / L3 service infrastructure (VPNs) that uses the capabilities of the underlay packet switched network to support the mobiles interfaces. The underlay packet switching infrastructure provides basic network services such as; any-to-any connectivity between TNEs, scaling, fast convergence, shortest path and traffic engineered forwarding, packet-based Quality of Service (QoS) and timing. The service layer supports native Ethernet services, using EVPN technology and IP VPN services, using MP-BGP based L3VPNs. These services can utilise the facilities offered by the underlay packet switched infrastructure to support the different mobile interfaces in an appropriate fashion. Where possible transport services are built on an end-to-end basis without intermediate stitching / switching points within the transport infrastructure. This approach has been taken to minimise the transport service orchestration overhead.

## 9.3 Technology and architectural choices
As discussed in the introduction to this section there are other packet-switched solutions and potentially many design approaches available that may have the same capabilities of the architecture described in this revision of the document. Future versions of this document may describe alternative technologies and designs based on operator requirements and suitably mature standards.

## 9.4 Standardization
The underlay packet-switching technologies described in this document are based on MPLS and IPv6 with an emphasis on the Segment Routing (SR) control and data planes. The overlay service layer uses EVPN and MP-BGP L3VPNs. The IETF is the primary standardization body for these technologies. The key specification of the IETF is the “Request For Comments” (RFC). RFCs are labelled with different statuses: Internet Standard, Proposed Standard, Best Current Practice, Experimental, Informational, and Historic. RFCs usually begin as Internet-Drafts written by Individuals, or a small group and are known as individual drafts. Depending on interest an individual draft can be adopted by an IETF Work Group (WG) where it is improved and revised by a wider group and can ultimately become an RFC. This process is well defined by the IETF, with guides and considerations for the progression of a document. If the process completes, then the document is published as an RFC by the IETF RFC Editor. If a document does not follow the process or doesn’t meet the guidelines outlined, then the drafts will expire and never become an RFC. Depending on subject matter the process of moving from an WG adopted draft to an RFC can several years. To present architectures suitable for 5G, based on modern packet-switching technologies, Standards, proposed standards, best current practise and informational RFCs and current workgroup adopted drafts with the same designations can be referenced in this document. All experimental and historic RFCs and workgroup adopted drafts and all forms of personal drafts MUST NOT be referenced. When writing requirements around these different types of documents consideration should be given to document type and their status. Future revisions of this document MUST be updated to reflect the status of IETF drafts which are referenced. If they expire, they MUST be removed and if they complete the IETF standardization ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 process, references and requirements MUST be updated to remove the IETF draft and include the appropriate RFC number.

## 9.5 Document organization
The remainder of this document describes the physical and logical architecture of a packet switching Xhaul architecture and how it can support 5G and legacy mobile services. It is arranged as follows:

# 9 Section 10 describes the end-to-end physical network infrastructure.
Sections 11 and 12 describes two underlay packet switching architectures capable of supporting a 5G mobile environment. The first is based on MPLS, the second IPv6 with Segment Routing (SRv6). Depending on scale and preference, operators will need to select one or the other. Section 13 describes how IP and Ethernet services suitable for 5G are delivered on a packet switched Xhaul network. The approach is common regardless of the underlay technology deployed. Section 14 describes the QoS architecture for a packet switched Xhaul network.

# 20 Section 15 describes multicast and consideration for deployment.
Section 16 covers packet-switched orchestration and telemetry. Currently it is empty and will be completed in a later revision of this document or in a separate document.

# 25 Section 17 covers TNE and transport network security.
Section 18 and 19 describes how the packet switched Xhaul architecture supports 5G and legacy mobile use cases outlined in section 8.

# 10 Physical network design for packet switched Xhaul
Figure 10-1 shows two of the most common physical topologies seen in transport networks between the access and the core of the transport network. In the first, there are four layers of transport infrastructure; access, pre-aggregation, aggregation, and transport core. In the second, there are three layers of transport infrastructure; access, aggregation, and transport core. Packet switches are used within each layer and provides connectivity between the layers. The way the mobile RAN and core infrastructure is arranged over these different segments varies based on geography and the MNO’s RAN and mobile core designs and individual operator’s classification of different components in the physical network. It should be noted that in most cases the transport core doesn’t form part of the 5G RAN infrastructure, which is restricted to the access and aggregation infrastructure (often called the metro network), but it does play an important role in scaling and connecting metro infrastructures together to enable end to end services to be built. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 3 Figure 10-1: Physical transport components
Figure 10-2 Hierarchical designed transport network consisting of access / aggregation and transport core. Figure 10-2 shows an example of a logical transport network consisting of a number of access, aggregation domains connected hierarchically to form a single transport core domain. From a logical architecture perspective, the entire infrastructure needs to be considered as a whole, but at the physical layer there are significant differences in these discrete physical segments. These include: ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 3 3. Technology employed

# 4 4. Environmental conditions

# 5 5. Bandwidth requirements

# 6 6. Cost structures surrounding equipment and real estate.

## 10.1 Packet over fibre
This document concentrated primarily on a transport infrastructure built using packet over fibre solutions in all physical segments of the network.

# 11 10.1.1 Access

# A Transport Network Equipment (TNE) – Ethernet switch or IP router – resides in the cell site
aggregating traffic received on access ports (downlinks) from end-hosts (O-RUs, or O-DUs, as outlined in Section 8, as well as other types of end-hosts, like for example 4G BBUs, business CPEs, etc. in hybrid deployment models), and statistically multiplexing this traffic onto a higher capacity Ethernet uplink, typically established over a dark fibre or WDM lambda, or any other underlying technology (for example microwave radio link). Link speed will depend on the traffic levels required by the services running in the access network. The anticipated ranges will be from 1…50 Gbps (downlink) up to bundles of 100 Gbps (uplink).

# 20 10.1.1.1 Topology
The physical topology employed in the transport access network is operator dependent and driven mainly by the three aspects:

# 23 • fibre topology, its availability

# 24 • the traffic matrix

# 25 • latency and time error requirements
The main physical architectures anticipated in the transport access are:

# 28 • ring

# 29 • chain
- hub and spoke (called as well spine and leaf), with redundant CSR connectivity
- hub and spoke (called as well spine and leaf), without redundant CSR connectivity
as shown in Figure 10-3, Figure 10-4, Figure 10-5 and Figure 10-6. CSR CSR CSR HSR CSR HSR CSR CSR

# 34 CSR

# 35 Figure 10-3: Ring based access physical topology
ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 11 10.1.1.2 Suitability to support O-RAN Fronthaul/Midhaul/Backhaul
As discussed in detail in Section 8, depending on the use case, O-DU function can be placed at the cell site, together with O-RU function, or placed away from the O-RU, at the hub site. The O-DU placement has big influence on the possible physical topology for the access domain of the transport network. Open Fronthaul Interface between O-RU and O-DU has very strict latency and timing budgets (O-RAN.WG9.XTRP-REQ-v01.00 “Xhaul Transport Requirements v01.00”, November 2020 [20]). The implication of these requirements on the transport network design is, the number of Transport Network Equipments (TNEs) between O-RU and O-DU should be minimized, as each TNE increases the latency and time error. While each of the depicted access topology could be used for Fronthaul, topologies with limited number of transit Transport Network Equipments – hub-and-spoke or spine-and-leaf – leave more latency budget for delay caused by light propagation in the fiber, allowing for extending Fronthaul

# C S R C S
C C C C C C C C R S S S S S S S S R R R R R R R R

# C S R C S R

# H S R

# H S R

# H S R

# H S R
ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 over larger distances, comparing to the topologies with bigger number of transit Transport Network

# 34 10.1.1.2.1 Time Sensitive Networking (TSN) for Fronthaul
IEEE 802.1CM [33] defines two Time Sensitive Networking (TSN) profiles, with main characteristics summarized in Table 2. Characteristic TSN Profile A TSN Profile B Max frame size for Fronthaul data 2,000 octets 2,000 octets Max frame size for non-Fronthaul data 2,000 octets no limit Differentiated prioritization for Fronthaul data yes yes Frame pre-emption of non-Fronthaul data no yes Table 2 TSN Profile A and Profile B comparison The major differences between TSN Profile A and TSN Profile B are therefore the maximum frame size of non-Fronthaul traffic, as well frame pre-emption, as pictured in Figure 10-7. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 Figure 10-7 TSN Profile A and TSN Profile B operations IEEE 802.1CM has detailed discussion about Transport Network Equipment latency calculation (Section 7.2), as well as example end-to-end delay calculations (Annex B), therefore these calculations are not repeated in this document. This document, however, focuses on delay differences of Fronthaul traffic introduced by Transport Network Equipment operating in accordance with TSN Profile A or TSN Profile B. Following delay components contribute to overall Transport Network Equipment delay:
- Frame transmission delay, which is the time taken to transmit the frame at the
transmission rate of the port. Since both TSN Profile A and TSN Profile B mandate for Fronthaul data maximum frame size of 2000 bytes, this delay component is equal for Fronthaul data frames with both TSN Profile A and TSN Profile B.
- Self-queueing delay, which is the delay caused by other frames in the same traffic class as
frame to be sent (i.e. both frames are for example Fronthaul data frames). The part of the self-queuing delay caused by frames that arrive at more or less the same time from different input ports is referred to as fan-in delay; however, it is simpler to handle fan-in delay as part of the self-queuing delay. Since both TSN Profile A and TSN Profile B mandate that Fronthaul data frames cannot be pre-empted, this delay component is equal for Fronthaul data frames with both TSN Profile A and TSN Profile B.
- Queuing delay, which is the delay caused by the frame of which transmission already
started in an arbitrarily small time before frame X became eligible for transmission, plus the delay caused by queued-up frames from all flows with higher priority than the traffic class of frame X. Since both TSN Profile A and TSN Profile B mandate that Fronthaul data must be prioritized over non-Fronthaul data, in both profiles only single non-Fronthaul frame can contribute to this delay. In case of TSN Profile A, a non-Fronthaul frame size is limited to 2,000 bytes (2,020 bytes including preamble, start of frame delimiter and inter-frame gap). In case of TSN Profile B, a non-Fronthaul frame can be pre-empted, but at least 155 bytes of pre-empted frame are transmitted due to the characteristics of frame preemption. e C P

# A F 2

# A F 1

# B E
e C P

# A F 2

# A F 1

# B E
e C P

# A F 2

# A F 1

# B E
e C P

# A F 2

# A F 1

# B E
R R R R

# T S
(n I I I I No p Pre re om fp ile A tio n )

# T : p a c k e t 1
t r a n s m it s t a

# T : p a c k e t 2
a p p e a r s in e C P R I q u e u

# T : p a c k e t 1 2
t r a n s m it f in

# T : p a c k e t 2 3
t r a n s m it s t a à T -T p a c k e t 2

# V )
e s e C P

# A F 2

# A F 1

# B E
e C P

# A F 2

# A F 1

# B E
e C P

# A F 2

# A F 1

# B E
e C P

# A F 2

# A F 1

# B E
R R R R T I I I I

# S N P
(p re e rm op f ile B tio n ) ~ 2~

# T : p a c k e t 1
t r a n s m it s t a r t s

# T : p a c k e t 2
a p p e a r s in e C P R I q u e u e F ra m e p re e m p tio n

# T : m a x 1 5 5 b y t e
t r a n s m it t e d s in c e T 1

# T : p a c k e t 2 3
t r a n s m it s t a r t s à T -T 1 5 5 b y te s o f

# 100 Gbps 0.162 s 0.012 s 0.149 s 30 m

# 200 Gbps 0.081 s 0.006 s 0.075 s 15 m

# 400 Gbps 0.040 s 0.003 s 0.037 s 8 m

# 14 Table 3 Queuing delay of non-Fronthaul data
Significant difference between TSN Profile A and TSN Profile B can be observed over port with 1 Gbps speed (14.92 s, which is equivalent to ~3 km fiber). For port speeds 10 Gbps or above, the latency difference introduced to Fronthaul traffic (1.494 s, which is equivalent to 305 m fiber, or less) is not so significant for designs targeting standard NR performance (with 100 s overall latency budget).

# 22 10.1.2 Pre-aggregation / Aggregation / Core transport
Pre-aggregation and aggregation and the core transport infrastructure can support Midhaul and Backhaul requirements. Due to the delay requirements associated with Fronthaul, it is unlikely O- RAN 7.2x or RoE will be seen in these portions of the network. Additionally, in most scenarios the transport core will not be part of the Midhaul or Backhaul environment but may provide N6 connectivity to any of the following:

# 28 1. Peering points for mobile consumer services.

# 29 2. Enterprise locations for mobile enterprise solutions.

# 30 3. Inter region voice communications within the operator.

# 31 4. Other operators.

# 32 10.1.2.1 Physical media and topologies
The assumption made in this architecture is the connectivity between routers in the pre-aggregation, aggregation and transport core is provided by point-to-point Ethernet connections where the full capacity of the Ethernet interface is available to the router. Link speed will depend on the traffic levels required by the services running and the position in the network. The anticipated ranges will ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 be from 10Gbps up to bundles of 400Gbps with the capacity provided over dark fibre or some form of WDM solution. The physical topology employed in the pre-aggregation, aggregation and transport core are operator dependent and driven by fibre topology, its availability and the traffic matrix. The main physical architectures seen in these segments of the network are all redundant and include ring, “hub and spoke” and mesh. These are shown in Figure 10-8. Note: This document uses the term “hub and spoke architecture” but it is used inter-changeably with leaf / spine and fabric architectures. Figure 10-8 Physical topologies anticipated in Xhaul pre-aggregation, aggregation and core 1. Ring: This architecture is commonly seen in pre-aggregation and aggregation networks where traffic is being collected and aggregated from the access towards components in the aggregation or transport core. Connectivity between routers is either via direct dark fibre connections or via lambdas derived from a WDM system. 2. Dual hub and spoke: This architecture is most commonly seen in aggregation and core transport networks but also sometimes in pre-aggregation networks. It is used to collect and aggregate traffic towards common aggregation points. Connectivity between routers is typically via direct dark fibre or via lambdas derived from a WDM system. Note: Hub and spoke architectures are often super-imposed over a physical ring topology using WDM technology. 3. Mesh: This is architecture is normally seen in transport core networks but can be seen in aggregation networks. It is used when traffic is flowing in an any-to-any fashion. As drive distances increase and connectivity becomes meshier in nature, so there is increasing use of DWDM and ROADM technology to derive the links between routers.

## 10.2 Alternative physical transport solutions
This document concentrates packet switching over a fibre infrastructure. However, there are other physical solutions that can be employed in Xhaul networks. This section outlines some of those technologies and discusses their applicability in different Xhaul roles. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 10 Figure 10-9 WDM Fronthaul design (passive)
WG-9 has a work item underway considering WDM-based Fronthaul transport [21], consequently this document does not consider this type of access network design further.

# 15 10.2.2 Passive Optical Networks (PONs)
Passive Optical Networks (PONs) are fiber-based point-multipoint access networks, relying on TDM/TDMA for the exchange of traffic between a central Optical Line Termination (OLT) and multiple Optical Network Units (ONUs). PONs also use WDM for separation of up- and downstream traffic, and for overlaying of multiple different PON technologies over the same fiber infrastructure called Optical Distribution Network (ODN). Note that there are two basic flavours of

# 21 PON;
1. Time or Time +Wavelength Division Multiplexing (TDM or TWDM) PONs apply point- multipoint connections (one up/down wavelength pair (called Channel Pair) is shared over multiple ONUs) over a point-multipoint ODN. 2. Wavelength Division Multiplexing (WDM) PONs apply point-point connections between each ONU and the OLT (one Channel Pair per ONU) over a point-multipoint ODN. WDM PONs are like dedicated point-point links whereas TDM/TWDM PONs have some fundamental characteristics to bear in mind when considering them for mobile Xhaul, described below. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 Figure 10-10: Typical TDM PON network. In TWDM PON multiple Channel Pairs are muxed per ODN TDM/TWDM PONs are standardized technologies (see [190], [35], [36], [37]) and are characterized by generic capabilities (independently of the use case):
- PON line rates are shared over the ONUs and existing technologies reach 10 Gbit/s per
channel (up to 4x 10 Gbit/s with NG-PON2), with new variants being developed at 25 Gbit/s and 50 Gbit/s. Note that some fraction is consumed by the technology-specific overheads

# 10 (e.g. by parity bits for Forward Error Correction).
- Depending on the technology the maximum distance can reach 20 km or 40 km (or 60 km
with a reach extender), the maximum amount of ONUs per PON port can reach 64 or 128. Note that the reach (distance) and scalability (amount of ONUs per PON ODN) are a mutual trade-off bound by the optical budget (many classes of optical budget exist, e.g. Class N1 covers optical losses from 14dB to 29dB).
- The max amount of traffic flows per PON port can reach 4k (independently of physical layer
considerations).
- The upstream TDMA multiplexing is controlled by a Dynamic Bandwidth Assignment
(DBA) algorithm in the OLT (which is equivalent to upstream shaping over the PON segment). The DBA allocates the bandwidth needs per transport container (each ONU can have one or multiple transport containers) and update its assigned bandwidth. The assigned bandwidth is then converted into a burstiness (rate and size of bursts). Bandwidth can also be (partially or fully) assigned as a fixed value. The upstream latency is influenced by the DBA behaviour, with a trade-off between latency and efficiency (more frequent bursts means less waiting time between bursts but more overhead).
- Protection of (parts of) the passive ODN and active OLT equipment by automated switch-
over from working to protecting parts of the equipment.
- Management and configuration of the ONUs. Note that ONUs operate at Layer 2 only (e.g.
for Layer 2 flow classification). An ONU can be connected to (or integrated with) a Layer 3 device like a residential gateway. PON ports are terminated in the OLT node, which terminates the PON layers and acts as an aggregation and multiplexing node for the multiple PON ports. Contrary to the PON layer, the ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 OLT’s features are not strictly standardized, although reference deployment models are defined in Broadband Forum documents (See [185], [186]). Typical OLT features include;
- QoS-aware packet forwarding between user side and network side (unicast, multicast, Layer

# 4 2 switching, Layer 3 routing)
- Traffic management (classification, (re)marking, queuing and scheduling, policing,
shaping…)
- User-side protocol interaction (e.g., DHCP relay agent, IGMP proxy, ARP relay, …) or on
the contrary protocol transparency
- Network-side protocol support (e.g., IP routing protocols, IGMP proxy, MPLS signalling,

# 10 …)
The datagrams (typically IP over Ethernet) undergo several handlings when being transported from

# 15 Downstream (OLT SNI ingress to ONU UNI egress)
1. Traffic Management (classification, policing, queuing and scheduling) at ingress (OLT SNI), 2. Forwarding (Layer 2 switching or Layer 3 routing) towards corresponding PON MAC (PON port), 3. Encapsulation in PON MAC (according to standard, ITU-T or IEEE),

# 20 4. OLT PON port egress queuing and scheduling,

# 21 5. Fiber propagation,
6. ONU (Layer 2 based) forwarding to corresponding UNI,

# 23 7. Decapsulation of PON MAC layer,
8. ONU UNI egress queuing and scheduling (Layer 2)

# 26 Upstream (ONU UNI ingress to OLT SNI egress)
1. DBA processing in OLT for burst-based TDMA transmission (acts as policer and shaper), OLT notifies grants to ONUs by sending a Bandwidth Map to all ONUs, 2. Traffic Management (Layer 2 classification, queuing and scheduling) at ingress (ONU UNI), 3. Encapsulation in PON MAC (according to standard, ITU-T or IEEE),

# 31 4. Burst generation as per bandwidth map,

# 32 5. Fiber propagation,

# 33 6. Decapsulation of PON MAC layer,
7. Forwarding (L2 switching or L3 routing) to right OLT uplink (SNI),

# 35 8. OLT uplink (SNI) egress queuing and scheduling
PONs are widely used for all FTTx use cases (Cabinet, DPU, Office, Home, …), and are designed for multi-service support (residential triple play, business services, Wireless LAN access points). As explained in the next section and [189], PONs have been extended with additional features and are also suitable for multiple Xhaul scenario’s. PONs can act as layer 2 legs in the end-end transport, or participate (from OLT upwards) to layer 3 routing.

# 42 10.2.2.1 Using PON for Xhaul: specific features
As a PON is an asymmetrical (bandwidth and latency) point-to-multipoint medium, time and frequency synchronization have to be transported using native media means using media converters (in OLT and ONU). The PON technology have in-built mechanisms for providing frequency and phase synchronization. This will be described in [22]. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 The PON DBA is being extended with a cooperative mode DBA (called Cooperative DBA or CO DBA in short) for interaction with O-RAN CTI ([24], [25]) making it suitable for some Fronthaul needs by improving the multiplexing while keeping transport latency low. A specific side effect of T(W)DM PONs is the need for discovery and ranging of new ONUs by means of short interruptions (up to a couple of 100’s of µs) of upstream traffic. Such interruptions are likely to impact the performance at the mobile radio layer, but several ways to mitigate the impact or reduce or eliminate the interruptions are being developed (ranging notification from OLT to O-DU by CTI, optimization of ranging timing to minimize impact, avoiding ranging on the latency-sensitive channel by means of separate dedicated activation wavelength).

# 12 10.2.2.2 Xhaul Use cases: topologies

# 13 PON for Fronthaul

# 16 Figure 10-11 PON for transport of Fronthaul flows
Points of attention for Fronthaul deployments are latency at transport level, capacity per O-RU, and time synchronization accuracy (Time Error between the O-RUs). For Fronthaul the O-RUs are connected to ONUs, the OLT is connected to multiple O-DUs (or O-DU/O-CUs), possibly through intermediate aggregating node(s). The PON system can be on-site (e.g., cell site = event zone) or reach up to the cell site (ONU at cell site). The appropriateness of a PON technology depends on several points:
- the considered radio bandwidth and corresponding Fronthaul throughput and the number of
O-RUs per PON that can multiplexed per single PON port
- the obtained latency at packet transport level which depends on the DBA settings (and use
of CTI). The requirements for Fronthaul depend on the combination of O-DU and O-RU categories, which have one-way latency budgets ranging from tens to hundreds of µs for usual Fronthaul, and multiple ms for non-ideal Fronthaul (see [18]). Plain DBA is not suited for usual fronthaul, for which Cooperative DBA with CTI is required. Plain DBA can address non-ideal fronthaul. See 10.2.2.3 for more details.
- The time accuracy between O-RUs on PON systems will be described in [22].

# 34 PON for Midhaul

# 37 Figure 10-12: PON for transport of Midhaul flows
Points of attention for Midhaul deployments are latency at application level (e.g. for URLLC), QoS differentiation (for achieving better statistical multiplexing), capacity per O-RU. For Midhaul the ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 O-DUs are connected to ONUs, the OLT is connected to multiple O-CUs, possibly through intermediate aggregating node(s). The PON system (ONU) can reach up to the cell site or to some higher aggregation point.

# 4 The appropriateness of a PON technology depends on - the considered radio bandwidth and corresponding Midhaul throughput,
- the number of O-RUs per PON that can multiplexed per single PON port and the obtained
latency at application level (for higher CoS like e.g. URLLC). See 10.2.3.2 for more details.
- the requirement for time alignment accuracy of TDD transmitters between O-RU and the
PRTC (Class 4A 3µs) is independent of the topology of O-RU clusters (mutual position of O-RUs on the PONs). The time accuracy with PON systems will be described in [22].

# 12 PON for Backhaul

# 14 Figure 10-13 PON for transport of Backhaul flows
The points of attention are similar as for Midhaul. For Backhaul the O-CUs are connected to ONUs, the OLT is connected to the mobile core, possibly through intermediate Backhaul aggregating node(s). The PON system (ONU) can reach up to the cell site or to some higher aggregation point. The appropriateness of a PON technology is similar as for Midhaul.

# 21 PON for carrying traffic mixes
Note that PON systems are multi-service, hence mixes of different Xhaul flavours can co-exist on the same PON system (e.g. Midhaul + Backhaul) and can also co-exist with non-mobile traffic (e.g. business services). There is also the possibility of re-using the passive fiber infrastructure for different PON technologies by means of WDM overlay, e.g., one system for mobile and one system for residential services. Traffic characteristics of each PON system are then fully independent of the other system.

#### 10.2.2.3 Using PON for Xhaul: trade-offs of the technology
PON systems can be used in many situations, but obviously not all. Each Xhaul transport use case poses specific requirements, which must be considered in light of the possible trade-offs inherent to the PON technology:

# 34 1. Latency
a. versus bandwidth efficiency (making bursts more numerous and shorter decreases latency but increases physical layer overhead). b. versus statistical multiplexing (the higher the ratio of variable versus fixed BW allocations, the better the multiplexing but the higher the latency can become). Using CTI allows to reach higher statistical multiplexing while keeping latency limited. c. versus reach (5µs/km one-way propagation time) d. As guideline, using PONs with fixed bitrate allows to support very low latencies (sub-100µs) but this is not efficient for variable rate fronthaul. PONs with plain DBA efficiently follow variable rate traffic but introduce a latency in the order of one to several ms. When combining CTI with Cooperative DBA in the OLT for variable rate ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 fronthaul traffic (like O-RAN 7.2x), the extra latency can be reduced by an order of magnitude compared to plain DBA, and such PONs can support several use cases of usual fronthaul and all combinations of non-ideal fronthaul (see O-RU and O-DU combinations as per [18]). 2. Bandwidth per Xhauled node versus the number of nodes served per ODN (bandwidth sharing) 3. phase synchronization accuracy versus topology of O-RU clusters in PONs and path propagation difference up/down (max fiber distance and wavelength-dependent correction factors). This will be described in [22].

# 11 10.2.3 DOCSIS Networks
Today’s modern cable operators deploy and manage extensive hybrid fiber coaxial (HFC) networks. The HFC plant reaches 93% of American households and connects to virtually every building across north America. The data-over-cable service interface specification (DOCSIS®) is the protocol designed to work on the HFC network. DOCSIS suite of specifications is standardized and maintained by CableLabs® [198][199], and is deployed worldwide. DOCSIS technology has evolved through six generations of progressive refinement. Originally developed for delivering high speed broadband to residential customers, the cable industry has made many advances in the HFC technology, making it a promising option for 5G transport. The HFC plants are already extensively deployed in areas where 5G will be in the most demands, especially in dense urban and suburban environments. Additionally, the HFC plant is active, providing power needed for small cell radios. The cable operators typically have the right of way on the strands where radios can be hung, eliminating the need to obtain permits from government. Leveraging the existing HFC deployments significantly reduces time-to-market and cost of deploying 5G.

# 26 10.2.3.1 DOCSIS technology overview
DOCSIS protocol is a Layer 2 transmission protocol that encapsulates the IEEE 802.3 Ethernet. The technology supports both Layer 2 and Layer 3 services and is aware of both. DOCSIS network is a point-to-multipoint access network, where the transmission of upstream and downstream is controlled by the cable modem termination system (CMTS). Figure 10-14 shows a typical HFC plant. The CMTS is typically located in either a headend or a hub, which is connected to the fiber nodes through digital or analog fiber. From there, the communication path traverses through a coax network of zero or more amplifiers to the neighborhoods. The hybrid (fiber and coax) network topology is called “N+x”, where “N” is the fiber node, where the fiber ends and coax starts, and “x” is the number of amplifiers traversed. The average north American plant is between N+2 and N+5. The smaller the x, the closer the fiber node it is to the neighborhood, the larger the amount of capacity would be available to each customer. The traditional physical CMTS controls 50k cable modems (CMs). It is expected to scale up as the

# 40 CMTS moves to the cloud native architecture.
ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 4 Typically, the latency on the downstream is 1ms.
Cable operators are in the midst of disaggregating the traditional CMTS. The “Distributed Access Architecture” (DAA), shown in Figure 10-15, has been specified by CableLabs [200] and is being deployed. Replacing the traditional “integrated” CMTS, PHY layer component of the CMTS is being pushed to the fiber node and is called Remote PHY Device (RPD), while MAC and upper layers are implemented as DAA Core, and is located in the headend or regional data center. The DAA Core has been architected with the cloud native architecture. The links between the fiber node and the hub are being upgraded to a digital fiber network, with DWDM as a starting point, but some operators may choose to migrate to point-to-point coherent optics. A device called “CTD” is being specified to terminate the fiber from the hub, and is essentially be a Layer 2 switch that provides high-speed Ethernet to the neighborhood. A multitude of services can be provided through the CTD, including 5G Fronthaul, PON, etc, thus achieving a form of transport convergence. Figure 10-15 Distributed Access Architecture (DAA) for transport convergence

# 21 10.2.3.2 Xhaul transport DOCSIS network
Functionally, the DOCSIS network can interconnect the small cells or radios as shown in Figure 10-16. However, the requirement on capacity and latency vary between Backhaul, Midhaul, and Fronthaul. Backhaul and Midhaul are both based on an IP encapsulation of the original mobile transport. Thus, the bandwidth requirement on the transport network roughly matches the mobile traffic rate. The latency requirement for Backhaul is based on the application. Additional service-level agreement (SLA) can be specified by the mobile operator. Midhaul latency is generally considered to be less than 10 ms [201]. LLX can be implemented to ensure these requirements can be met, as well as providing better latency performance, particularly for latency-sensitive flows. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 11 10.2.4 Microwave and mmwave radio transport technologies

# 12 10.2.4.1 Overview of Microwave and mmwave technology
For over 20 years, microwave has been the primary solution for the rapid and cost-effective rollout of mobile Backhaul infrastructure with over 50% of mobile sites worldwide today connected via Microwave (MW) or Millimetre Wave (mmW) radio links and up to over 90% in some networks. The evolution from 4G towards 5G presents significant challenges to all transport technologies and wireless ones make no exception. Spectrum is a vital asset to support the mobile Backhaul requirements and certainly this topic becomes increasingly relevant as future mobile access data rates and respective Backhaul capacity requirements continue to rise. Various frequency bands are used today for mobile Backhaul depending on the requested capacity, hop length, link availability, spectrum availability and frequency re-use capability. The spectrum that is available for mobile Backhaul ranges from the traditional microwave bands up to the millimetre wave spectrum as illustrated in the Figure 10-17. These bands are allocated for fixed services by the WRC Radio regulations. Their channel plans are detailed by the ITU-R F-series recommendations as well as some regional or national regulatory regimes, such as CEPT. Fixed services spectrum uses authorisations awarded by national ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 administrations on the basis of link by link assignments as either coordinated or self-coordinated, or as block assignments.

# 5 Figure 10-17 Microwave and mmwave spectrum
The engineering of a MW or mmW link involves finding the optimal combination of link length, capacity, frequency band and availability. The physics of radio waves propagation determine the relation among capacity, availability and link length. Since the available spectrum is proportional to the center frequency, the highest frequencies are also those that carry the most capacity, but also cover the comparatively shortest link lengths. As a rule of thumb, frequencies below 13 GHz can be considered mostly unaffected by the intensity of rainfall and frequencies above are more and more influenced by the attenuation caused by rain, so that as a general principle higher frequencies are used for shorter links, as illustrated in Figure 10-18. It should be noted that features could be inherited for links combining different bands as indicated in the circles in this figure. Figure 10-18 Interdependence among frequency, capacity and availability. Source ETS TS mWT The availability of MW/mmW spectrum depends on both technological and regulatory factors. Technology is available and under development to make full use of existing (6-86 GHz) and future (90-300 GHz) spectrum: E-band (80 GHz) has been commercially deployed for several years, W- band (100 GHz) and D-band (150 GHz) are the most promising upcoming bands, with prototypes already appearing in the market. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 Wider channels (112MHz, even 224MHz where possible) in traditional frequency bands and raw availability of spectrum (10GHz in E-band, 18GHz in W-band and 30GHz in D-band) provide the main resources to expand the capacity of MW and mmW radio systems. Overview of available spectrum for wireless transport network with corresponding capability related to link capacity, latency and hop length is illustrated in Figure 10-19. Figure 10-19 Bands characteristics and capabilities. Source ETSI TSG mWT

# 11 10.2.4.2 Evolving technologies
There are a number of existing and evolving technologies which are applied in microwave and mmwave radio to enhance its spectrum efficiency, achievable capacity and reducing latency. An overview of these technologies is presented in[209]. As follow is a summary of these applicable technologies in the microwave and mwave radio transport systems.

# 17 Capacity and spectrum efficiency enhancement
Larger channels are no longer a technology limit. In MW bands recent regulatory limit shifted up to Channel Spacing CS=224MHz, but not everywhere. Up to CS=2000MHz is standardised in E-Band and above 100GHz. Larger CS are needed where Carrier Aggregation, in same band or adjacent band is employed. Higher Modulation schemes reached the reasonable top at 4096QAM (and more). After 1024QAM spectral efficiency gain is less than 10% for every step. Higher order result in reduction in system gain (impacting availability), however, with adaptive modulation availability can be maintained with lower modulation order (i.e. scarifying capacity).

# 28 Frequency reuse with cross polar interference cancelation (XPIC)
This is a well-known technique for doubling the spectral efficiency by utilising the cross polarisation of the channel bandwidth occupied.

# 32 LoS-MIMO Line of Sight Multi-Input Multi-Output
ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 Exploiting link geometry deployment, two different signals in the same channel can be transmitted. 4x4 LoS-MIMO is obtained with LoS-MIMO 2x2 plus XPIC

# 3 LoS MIMO needs optimal antennas separation.
Under optimal conditions, spectral efficiency close to four times capacity improvement can be achieved, while lower performance in case of suboptimal conditions should be expected. Figure 10-20 4x4 Multiplexing with LoS MIMO and XPIC

# 10 Orbital Angular Momentum
OAM is a new transmission mechanism allowing multiplexing multiple streams simultaneously over the same frequency channel without the limitation imposed by the optimum separation distance of antennas in the LoS MIMO. Using different antennas, multiple OAM signals with different spiral phase front (mode) can be transmitted. OAM modes are orthogonal of each other. A pragmatic OAM system, uses uniform circular antenna array while the OAM signal is generated at the base band as illustrated in the Figure 10-21.

# 19 Figure 10-21 Orbital Angular momentum transmission
An OAM system with 8 Uniform Circular Array UCA antenna elements allows the transmission of 16 orthogonal streams resulting in capacity of around 105Gbps. [195]

# 24 Bands & Carriers Aggregation (BCA)
BCA joins different channels that may be even in different bands, providing a single big capacity pipe. Lower band will provide capacity pipe’s segment with high availability, while higher band the best effort capacity pipe segment. Packets may be adaptively re-routed among different channels according to their priority and channels condition. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 Figure 10-22 Bands and carrier aggregation concept and benefits One of the most valuable approach is 15/18/23 GHz with E-Band where dual band antennas are available:
- Links up to 7-10Km are feasible. Capacity may even exceed 10Gbps
- High spectral efficiency obtained because E-Band can reach longer links than in traditional
approach. BCA among two MW bands is another variant when distance becomes more challenging i.e.: rural application.

# 12 Geographical spectral efficiency: Dense reuse of channels
To better exploit the scarce resource (spectrum) it is advisable to increase not only the single channel spectral efficiency but also the channel reusability in a given area, guaranteeing the

# 15 “interference free operation”.
Nodal configuration is the key point to understand the concept of geographical spectral efficiency. Better antenna class are introduced (e.g. ETSI Class 4), reducing significantly the minimum angle between two links using the same/adjacent channels (angle discrimination) Cross polar (XPIC) can also be used in reducing angle discrimination. Co-Channel Interference Canceller (CCIC) further improve the re-use of channels with very narrow angle discrimination. Figure 10-23 Increase nodal capacity is now easy with no additional spectrum with XPIC When additional capacity is needed and then additional channels shall be used, CCIC permits an optimal re-use of channels with very narrow angle discrimination ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 Figure 10-24 Further increase nodal capacity with increased spectral utilization by applying

# 3 CCIC technique
Combination of the above technologies gives enhancements to microwave/mmwave capabilities as indicated below [208]. + BCA +BCA + Los 2x2 MW Backhaul Technology 56 MHz BW 112 MH BW 224 MHz BW +XPIC (with higher (with mmW MIMO MW Band) Band) 6-15 GHz 0.5 Gbps 1 Gbps 2 Gbps 3-4Gbps 18-42 GHz 0.5 Gbps 1 Gbps 2 Gbps 2-4 Gbps 4-8 Gbps 4-10 Gbps mmW Backhaul +LOS 2x2

# 500 MHz BW 2 GHz BW 4 GHz BW +XPIC
Technology MIMO/OAM V-band (60GHz) >4 Gbps E-band (70/80GHz) 3.2 Gbps 12.8 Gbps 25.6 Gbps 51.2 Gbps W-band (100GHz) 3.2 Gbps 12.8 Gbps 25.2 Gbps 51.2 Gbps 102.4 Gbps D-band (150GHz) 3.2 Gbps 12.8 Gbps 25.6 Gbps 51.2 Gbps 102.4 Gbps

# 11 Table 5 Microwave/mmwave enhancements

# 13 10.2.4.3 Support for packet
MW or mmW links are characterised by their physical capabilities related to the combination of link length, capacity, frequency band and availability, which is independent of their network layer functionalities and use cases. These radio links are usually capable of multiplexing various types of traffic over single radio channel and can be equipped with multiple network interfaces including FE/GbE (RJ45, SFP) and CWDM filter support. Various packet functions are also supported as optional features and can be configured by network operators, such as L2 pass through, feature rich L2 switch with ERPS, H-QoS among others enabling carrier grade Ethernet services. MPLS-TP is also supported for layer 2 services, and for timing and synchronisation support includes 1588v2

# 22 (TC, BC) and SyncE.
These network features make MW and mmwave radio popular in Backhaul and Xhaul network infrastructure by themselves. They are also used as a complementing technology to other physical technologies where the MW and mmwave radio links can be used as part of network segments to close links where underlying technology infrastructure is missing or absent or as a back-up in mission critical part of the network. The section below illustrates some use case examples where

# 29 MW and mmwave radio links are utilised.
ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 28 100 metres with LoS, can be used.

# 30 Rural (C-RAN) case
In this topology scenario, coverage in rural areas is migrated using existing fibres in a C-RAN configuration for 4G. Generalisation of equipment is made possible by upgrading CPRI links to Ethernet utilising eCPRI or IEEE1914.3 mechanism. The link capacity requirements in this case is in the range 10 to 25G. The application of MW/mmW radio equipment is used to extend coverage and other uses due to its ease of installation. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 Figure 10-26 Network topology example for rural environment with microware and mmwave links.

## 10.3 Data Centers
Data center solutions, connectivity to the Xhaul transport infrastructure and orchestration are not in scope of this version of document. However, it is important to note the critical role Data centers play in 5G, with key components of the 5G architecture running on servers either virtualized, containerized or as bare metal located in data centers. Consequently, operators need to consider how data centers are connected to the Xhaul transport network and how end to end transport services are built that span the DC and the WAN. At a high-level two basic approaches to interconnecting DC to the Xhaul transport network are available.

# 13 10.3.1 Complete separation between DC and WAN infrastructure
This refers to data centers that are discrete from the WAN infrastructure with each domain potentially running different underlay and overlay transport network technologies. The inter- connection between the two domains is via “Data Center Interconnect” (DCIs) routers. These routers reside in both the DC and WAN domains and have an awareness of the DC environment on one side and an awareness of the WAN on the other. To provision an end-to-end network service, the data center and the WAN are provisioned separately, using a cross-domain orchestrator to stitch the two separate service environments together.

# 22 10.3.2 DC integrated into WAN infrastructure.
This refers to data centers that run the same underlay and service infrastructures as the WAN. In this case, although there maybe DCIs to create underlay separation between the WAN and the DC, it is possible to treat the network service infrastructure as a single orchestration domain with WAN transport services directly configured on the Top of Rack (ToRs) devices or on soft switches / routers residing on the server themselves.

# 11 Packet-switched underlay network – MPLS based
This document presents two packet switched underlay technologies, the first is based on MPLS contained in this section (section 11) and the second based on SRv6 contained in section 12. An operator wishing to implement the transport architecture outlined in this document will need to select one of the two and implement the requirements outlined in the associated section. It should be ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 noted that other transport architectures are potentially available but not covered in this revision of the document. This section outlines a packet switched underlay model based on “Multi-Protocol Label Switching” (MPLS). MPLS data plane is based on label switching but has more than one control plane technology. The first, classic approach is based on the control plane developed when MPLS was first conceived in the mid 1990s and utilizes IGPs, BGP-LU, LDP and RSVP. An emerging approach, very appropriate to mobile transport networks, is based on Segment Routing (SR) extensions to IGP and BGP, which have been developed since around 2010 and aim to simplify and minimize the number of protocols running in network, as well as reduce the state held on the TNEs. This document describes scalable, multi-domain Xhaul transport architecture that can involve domains with different MPLS control plane technologies (classic: LDP, RSVP, BGP-LU, as well as emerging: SR, SR with Flex-Algo, or SR-TE), in order to support both brownfield (extending existing mobile transport network using classic control plane with additional domains using new, emerging SR control plane) and greenfield (building new Xhaul transport network) deployment use cases. However, in order to avoid duplications with BBF technical reports documenting classic MPLS control plane in mobile transport network designs, and to keep the size of this document within reasonable limits, this document puts more focus on the new, emerging control plane based on SR. Regardless which MPLS control plane – classic or SR – is used to distribute underlay transport labels, the services are overlaid on-top. The service layer is independent from the underlaying MPLS transport layer and supports native Ethernet services and layer 3 services.

## 11.1 MPLS data plane
MPLS architecture relies on an MPLS data plane using MPLS encapsulated IP (for L3VPN) or Ethernet (for L2VPN/EVPN) data packets. MPLS label stack, containing potentially multiple labels, pushed on the data packet might encode various information, like for example:

# 29 • path through the transport network (transport labels)
- entropy for load balancing on transit routers (flow or entropy labels)

# 31 • function/service on egress router (L3VPN/EVPN labels)
Figure 11-1 shows examples for Ethernet based eCPRI and IP based eCPRI encapsulated in MPLS. Figure 11-1 MPLS encapsulation of Ethernet frame or IP packet To support packet switching transport with MPLS data plane, the transport device will need to support: ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 [R1]: MUST support MPLS architecture as defined by “Multiprotocol Label Switching Architecture”, RFC 3031 [60]. [R2]: MUST support MPLS label stack encoding defined by “MPLS Label Stack Encoding” RFC 3032 [61]. [R3]: MUST support TTL processing defined by “Time To Live (TTL) Processing in Multi- Protocol Label Switching (MPLS) Networks”, RFC 3443 [68]. [D1]: SHOULD support MPLS Explicit Null operation defined by “Removing a Restriction on the use of MPLS Explicit NULL”, RFC 4182 [77].

## 11.2 MPLS control plane
The MPLS control plane is used to distribute information required to deliver the packets through the transport network. It typically includes following information:
- Topological information (nodes and links in transport network, including attributes, like
metrics, IP prefixes administrative groups, SRLGs, etc., associated with these topological elements)

# 17 • IP prefixes

# 18 • MPLS transport label information
Based on the collected information, control plane responsibility is to
- calculate paths (shortest path to the destination, or path fulfilling certain administrative
constraints, which are not necessarily the shortest paths – for example low latency path)
- program data plane with information required to forward the MPLS packets through the
network (next-hops, MPLS labels stack manipulation rules – pop, push, swap)
- calculate and program in the data plane backup paths required for rapid protection
mechanisms (fast re-route – FRR) In a packet switched transport network consisting of a large number of routers, a mix of WAN and data centers components, the need to support traffic engineering, the underlay control plane is a typically a collection of independent routing domains that interact in a collaborate fashion. Distributed PCE Layer PCE PCE PCE

# P P

# E C

# C E

# P BGP-LS Telemetry P
O-RU O-RU CSR ACCESS HSR AGGREGATION TRA C N O S R P E ORT AGGREGATIONHSR ACCESS CSR O-RU O-RU End-to-End Label Switched Path

# 34 Figure 11-2 MPLS packet switched underlay architecture
ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 Figure 11-2 illustrates how a large packet switched MPLS transport infrastructure might be designed and how different components interact. It should be noted that not all these components are required, and some serve the same purpose but in different ways. 1. Each routing domain has an IGP for internal connectivity. 2. Each routing domain has a protocol for distributing label information. It could be SR extension to an IGP, or could be as well legacy protocol like RSVP or LDP. Architecture supporting legacy MPLS transports (LDP and/or RSVP) is especially important in brown- field deployments, with legacy MPLS transport already in place. 3. Mechanisms to calculate Traffic Engineered paths within a routing domain. Depending on scale, TE paths can be calculated on the transport devices themselves (distributed constrained shortest path first – D-CSPF – calculation), calculation can be off-loaded from less powerful transport devices to more powerful transport devices (on-box PCE), or even dedicated servers could be deployed (off-box PCE). The diagram shows a distributed “Path Computation Element” (PCE) layer with “Path Computation Element Protocol” PCEP running between the edge nodes and the PCE 4. Mechanism to establish end-to-end MPLS LSPs between IGP domains. To achieve highly scalable architecture, two mechanism could be considered: Seamless MPLS Architecture, or a controller-based Architecture. Both architectures are described in more details in Section

# 19 11.5.
5. Mechanism to convey topology and network state information from the network to the PCE and other management elements. BGP Link State (BGP-LS) and Telemetry feeds are recommended tools to fulfil this requirement.

## 11.3 Classic MPLS control plane
The classic control plane is widely implemented, and designs and requirements are well documented in:
- Cisco Press, MPLS and VPN Architectures, Volume 1, 420 pages, by Ivan Pepelnjak, and
Jim Guichard, 2001 [202]
- Cisco Press, MPLS and VPN Architectures, Volume 2, 470 pages, by Ivan Pepelnjak, Jim
Guichard, and Jeff Apcar, 2003 [203]
- O’Reilly, MPLS in the SDN Era, 890 pages, by Antonio Sánchez-Monge, and Krzysztof
Grzegorz Szarkowicz, 2015 [204] The application of classic MPLS control plane protocols (IGP, LDP, RSVP, BGP) to the mobile transport networks is defined by Broadband Forum (BBF) in following technical reports:
- BBF TR-221: Technical Specification for MPLS in Mobile Backhaul Networks, 99 pages,
Oct 2011u [205]
- BBF TR-221, Amd.1: Technical Specifications for MPLS in Mobile Backhaul Networks, 24
pages, Nov 2013 [206]
- BBF TR-221, Amd.2: Technical Specifications for MPLS in Mobile Backhaul Networks, 22
pages, Sep 2017 [207]

# 43 11.3.1.1 LDP base requirements
If an operator wishes to use LDP MPLS control plane in some routing domain, then the routing equipment in that routing domain will require: ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 [D2]: SHOULD support constraint-based LSP setup using LDP defined by “Constraint-Based LSP Setup using LDP”, RFC 3212 [64] [R4]: MUST support LDP state machine defined by “LDP State Machine”, RFC 3215 [65] [D3]: SHOULD support graceful restart mechanism for LDP defined by “Graceful Restart Mechanism for Label Distribution Protocol”, RFC 3478 [70] [R5]: MUST support LDP defined by “LDP Specification”, RFC 5036 [92] [D4]: SHOULD support LDP extension for inter-area label switched paths defined by “LDP Extension for Inter-Area Label Switched Paths (LSPs)”, RFC 5283 [96] [D5]: SHOULD support LDP IGP synchronization defined by “LDP IGP Synchronization”, RFC 5443 [108] [D6]: SHOULD support LDP capabilities defined by “LDP capabilities”, RFC 5561 [111]

# 12 11.3.1.2 RSVP base requirements
If an operator wishes to use RSVP MPLS control plane in some routing domain, then the routing equipment in that routing domain will require: [R6]: MUST support “Resource ReSerVation Protocol (RSVP)”, RFC 2205 [44], RFC 2209 [45] , RFC 2210 [46] [R7]: MUST support “RSVP Diagnostic Messages”, RFC 2745[53] [R8]: MUST support “RSVP Refresh Overhead Reduction Extensions”, RFC 2961[58] [D7]: SHOULD support “RSVP Cryptographic Authentication—Updated Message Type Value”, RFC 3097 [62] [R9]: MUST support “RSVP-TE: Extensions to RSVP for LSP Tunnels”, RFC 3209 [63] [D8]: SHOULD support “Signalling Unnumbered Links in Resource ReSerVation Protocol - Traffic Engineering (RSVP-TE)”, RFC 3477 [69] [R10]: MUST support “Traffic Engineering (TE) Extensions of OSPF Version 2”, RFC 3630 [72] [D9]: SHOULD support “Fast Reroute Extensions to RSVP-TE for LSP Tunnels”, RFC 4090 [75] [D10]: SHOULD support “OSPF Extensions in Support of Generalized Multi-Protocol Label Switching (GMPLS)”, RFC 4203 [81] [D11]: SHOULD support “Node-ID Based Resource Reservation Protocol (RSVP) Hello”, RFC 4558 [84] [R11]: MUST support “Record Route Object (RRO) Node-Id Sub-Object”, RFC 4561[86] [R12]: MUST support “IS-IS Extensions for Traffic Engineering”, RFC 5305 [101] [D12]: SHOULD support “Traffic Engineering Extensions to OSPF Version 3”, RFC 5329 [104] [R13]: MUST support Encoding of Attributes for MPLS LSP Establishment Using Resource Reservation Protocol Traffic Engineering (RSVP-TE), RFC 5420 [106] [R14]: MUST support “Label Switched Path (LSP) Attribute in the Explicit Route Object (ERO)”, RFC 7570 [124] [D13]: SHOULD support “Techniques to Improve the Scalability of RSVP-TE Deployments”, RFC 8370 [137] ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 [D14]: SHOULD support “Signaling RSVP-TE Tunnels on a Shared MPLS Forwarding Plane”, RFC 8577 [145] [D15]: SHOULD support “Refresh-interval Independent FRR Facility Protection”, draft-ietf-mpls- ri-rsvp-frr [172]

## 11.4 SR/MPLS control plane
The following section outlines the control plane requirements for SR/MPLS environment.

# 7 11.4.1 Interior Gateway Protocol (IGP) for SR/MPLS
The distribution of labels, rapid convergence and distribution of traffic engineering information and optional calculation of TE optimized transport planes in a single SR domain is done by a link-state IGP, in the form of either IS-IS or ISPF, with suitable SR enhancements. This document separately outlines the requirements for IS-IS and OSPF with support for TiLFA for fast convergence and optional support for flex-algorithm for the creation of multiple transport planes optimised for different criteria and potentially using different topologies. SR/MPLS requires at least one IGP with SR awareness per routing domain or autonomous system. There are two IGPs that support SR/MPLS; ISIS or OSPF. They are both link-state protocols and have similar capabilities but there are operational differences which is beyond the scope of this document. The IGP provides internal connectivity within a routing domain. The size of a routing domain is determined by technical, operational and organizational considerations, such as protocol scalability and spans of control. In large networks, such as a 5G infrastructure, extending from the access to the transport core, it is very common to see multiple autonomous systems, IGPs and segmentation within the IGPs. In an SR/MPLS environment the IGP is responsible for distributing node, prefix and label information to all nodes within the routing domain and for calculating the “Routing Information Base” (RIB) and the Label Forwarding Information Base (LFIB) on each TNE. Optionally it can provide fast convergence mechanisms and distribute traffic engineering attributes within the domain and build multiple transport planes. Both IS-IS and OSPF have facilities to create a hierarchical routing structure within a routing domain using levels and areas respectively. They also have the facility to bring external routing information into a routing domain and push its routing information into other routing domains using route redistribution. Note: There are other techniques to achieve route re-distribution between routing domains, such as

# 36 BGP and centralised SDN controllers.
Note: When looking at SR/MPLS IGP requirements there are sets of requirements for ISIS and OSPF. Operators need to follow the requirements associated with IGPs they are using within their network infrastructure.

# 41 11.4.1.1 Topology Independent Loop Free Alternative (TiLFA)
In the SR/MPLS underlay design outlined in this document, TiLFA can be used to achieve fast IGP convergence in the event of a network failure. Topology Independent Loop Free Alternative as defined “Topology Independent Fast Reroute” using Segment Routing (draft ietf-rtgwg-segment- routing-ti-lfa [174]) is an IGP capability supported by Segment Routing that provides a local repair ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 mechanism that achieves 100% coverage within a routing domain against links, nodes and SRLGs failures with convergence times, once failure detection has occurred, H/W dependent but typically less than 50ms. For each destination in the network, TI-LFA pre-installs a backup forwarding entry for each protected destination ready to be activated upon detection of the failure of a link used to reach the destination. TI-LFA provides protection in the event of any one of the following: single link failure, single node failure, or single SRLG failure. In link failure mode, the destination is protected assuming the failure of the link. In node protection mode, the destination is protected assuming that the neighbor connected to the primary link has failed. In SRLG protecting mode, the destination is protected assuming that a configured set of links sharing fate with the primary link has failed (e.g. a linecard or a set of links sharing a common transmission pipe). The mechanics of the TiLFA in an SR/MPLS environment at failure is shown in Figure 11-3 and upon convergence in Figure 11-4. One of the key advantages of TiLFA over some other fast convergence mechanisms, not well illustrated in the example below, is that the TiLFA backup path is the same as the post convergence path, thus minimising micro-loops that can occur as IGPs converge.

# 19 Figure 11-3 TiLFA at failure with SR/MPLS
ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 4 Figure 11-4 Post convergence traffic flow with SR/MPLS

# 5 11.4.1.2 IGP Flexible-Algorithm
In the SR/MPLS underlay design outlined in this document Flexible Algorithm can be used to within an IGP domain to provide an IGP based traffic engineering facility. Flexible-Algorithm is an IGP based traffic engineering technique that permits multiple forwarding tables to be created in the IGP based on operator programmed criteria. It is a simple, automatic way, in which a packet switched transport network can be traffic engineered, using only the IGP, to create different transport planes designed to meet specific operator defined criteria. Standard ISIS and OSPF use the IGP metric on links and the “Shortest Path First” (SPF) algorithm to calculate the “best” path between an ingress and egress point in the network. For many services this approach is sufficient, however this approach cannot, for example, take into account real-time link latency, utilization, packet loss and whether an ECMP path shares links using the same underlying fibre ducts. IGP Flex-Algo, defined in RFC 9350 [160] is an IGP based Segment Routing traffic engineering capability, that enables an operator to define their own custom algorithm, based on a wide range of variables including: link latency, packet loss, bandwidth, affinity and shared risk link groups (SRLG), to achieve a specific forwarding aim. This is illustrated in Figure 11-5. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 12 11.4.1.3 IS-IS SR/MPLS base requirements
If an operator wishes to use IS-IS to support SR/MPLS with TiLFA and optionally flexible Algorithm (flex-algo) then a TNE providing the packet switching function will require: [R15]: If IPv4 control plane is used, MUST support Routing IPv4 with ISIS, as defined in ISO/IEC 10589 [210], RFC 1195 [42], RFC 3719 [73] [R16]: If IPv6 control plane is used, MUST support Routing IPv6 with ISIS, as defined in Routing IPv6 with ISIS, RFC5308 [102] [R17]: MUST support “IS-IS Extensions for Segment Routing”, RFC 8667 [150] [D16]: SHOULD support “Signaling Maximum SID Depth (MSD) Using IS-IS”, RFC 8491 [142] [D17]: SHOULD support “IGP Flexible Algorithm”, RFC 9350 [160] [R18]: MUST support IS-IS TE Extensions, RFC5305 [101] and RFC7810 [126] [D18]: SHOULD support “Topology Independent Fast Reroute using Segment Routing”, draft-ietf- rtgwg-segment-routing-ti-lfa [174] [R19]: MUST support ISIS cryptographic extensions as defined in RFC5310 [103] ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 [R20]: MUST support Domain-Wide Prefix Distribution with Two-Level IS-IS as defined in RFC5302 [99]. [R21]: MUST support Three-Way Handshake for IS-IS Point-to-Point Adjacencies as defined in RFC5303 [100] [D19]: SHOULD support purge originator identification TLV for IS-IS as defined in RFC6232 [115]

# 11 11.4.1.4 OSPF SR/MPLS basic requirements
If an operator wishes to use OSPF (v2 or v3) to support SR/MPLS with TiLFA and optionally flexible Algorithm (flex-algo) then a TNE providing the packet switching function will require: [R22]: If IPv4 control plane is used, MUST support OSPFv2 as defined in RFC2328 [47]. [R23]: If IPv6 control plane is used, MUST support OSPFv3 as defined in RFC5340 [105] and RFC 5838 [112]. [R24]: MUST support “OSPFv3 Extensions for Segment Routing”, RFC 8666 [149] [D20]: SHOULD support “Signalling Maximum SID Depth (MSD) Using OSPF,” RFC 8476 [141] [D21]: SHOULD support “IGP Flexible Algorithm”, RFC 9350 [160] [R25]: MUST support “OSPF TE Extensions”, as defined in RFC3630 [72] and RFC 7471 [122] [D22]: SHOULD support Topology Independent Fast Reroute using Segment Routing “draft-ietf- rtgwg-segment-routing-ti-lfa [174] [D23]: SHOULD support authentication/confidentiality for OSPFv3, as defined in RFC 4552 [84]

# 33 11.4.2 SR/MPLS Traffic Engineering
SR/MPLS supports two forms of SR policies or Traffic Engineering. Both solutions rely on the IGP to gather and convey topological and resource information around the network and optionally to an

# 36 SR Path Computation Element (SR-PCE) via BGP-LS.

# 37 11.4.2.1 Segment Routing Traffic Engineering (SR-TE)
The SR policy consists of a list of SIDs the packet needs to traverse and is programmed into the packet on the source node. The SID list can consist of a mix of prefix and adjacency SIDs. In SR this form of TE allows a path to be: 1. Loosely source routed where some intermediate points, but not all, are specified between the ingress and egress node. Paths between these intermediate points typically use the shortest path, ECMP based routing determined by the IGP. 2. Explicitly source routed where all intermediate points and even links are specified between the ingress and egress nodes. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 In all cases, topology information and live network status within a routing domain is distributed within a routing domain by the IGP with suitable extensions. In single routing domain environments path computation can be performed either by individual head-end routers or via a centralised “SR Path Computational Element” (SR-PCE). In multi-domain routing environments, then path computation generally occurs on a “centralised SR-PCE” component that has topology information for all domains being traversed. This function can be a standalone entity or be integrated into strategically placed TNEs. This form of traffic engineering can support loose and explicitly routed paths, low-latency paths, bandwidth-guaranteed paths, and disjoint paths. Precise TE capability depends on the capabilities of the SR-PCE component.

# 10 11.4.2.2 IGP Flexible Algorithm
IGP Flexible-Algorithm is described in section 11.4.1.2. It is an IGP based traffic engineering technique that permits multiple logical topologies to be created in an IGP domain based on operator programmed criteria. When used in a single IGP routing domain the IGP calculates and maintains the path. The ingress node simply needs to address the packet to the MPLS label associated with the flexible algorithm. This removes the need for a head-end or centralised PCE path computation element and also keeps SID list contained in the label stack to a minimum. This works in a single IGP domain but depending on area border router and autonomous system border router capabilities can be supported in multi-domain environments based on redistribution. For flex-algo requirements for SR/MPLS, see section 11.4.1.3 and 11.4.1.4.

## 11.5 Scaling the MPLS infrastructure
In order to provide communication between two MPLS TNEs, end-to-end MPLS LSPs must be available between the TNEs. This implies, that unique MPLS label towards the Transport Network Equipment, which possibly resides in different routing domain, must be available. In highly scaled environment the number of potential next-hops can be high, therefore care must be taken to ensure that resources, especially forwarding plane resources, are utilized in an efficient way, while providing end-to-end MPLS connectivity. While the requirement for having unique label per remote Transport Network Equipment increases the pressure on scaling, the benefit of unique label is faster detection of remote Transport Network Equipment failure, resulting from unique underlay prefix/label withdrawal. For architectures, which can use prefix summarization for remote Transport Network Equipment reachability, like for example SRv6 architecture discussed in Section 12, such capability is missing, since remote Transport Network Equipment failure does not influence underlay summary prefix state.

# 35 11.5.1 Seamless MPLS architecture
Seamless MPLS (draft-ietf-mpls-seamless-mpls [177]) is applicable to for both LDP/RSVP and SR based control planes. Seamless MPLS is based on following architectural aspects:
- Transport network is divided into multiple smaller routing domains. Routing domains can be
represented by separate BGP autonomous systems, or separate IGP domains (areas). Or, combination of BGP autonomous systems and IGP areas, where BGP autonomous systems are further divided with IGP areas.
- The size of each routing domain might vary, but must be chosen in such a way, that even the
weakest transport device in given routing domain can participate in intra-domain routing and ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 intra-domain MPLS path (SR, SR-TE, Flex-Algo, RSVP, LDP) establishment without any scaling concerns.
- Inter-domain routing and MPLS path establishment is achieved by BGP labelled unicast
(BGP LU), running on top of intra-domain protocols. BGP-LU is used for both prefix distribution (PE loopbacks), as well as label distribution (labels allocated for PE loopbacks)

# 7 This concept is outlined in Figure 11-6.

# 9 Figure 11-6 Seamless MPLS architecture
BGP-LU operation can be further optimized for enhanced scaling:
- BGP-LU prefixes (loopbacks of remote TNE) are not installed in the forwarding table (FIB)
– they are just installed in the routing table (RIB), which consumes only control plane resources. On typical transport device, control plane resources scale better than forwarding plane resources
- Service NLRIs (L3VPN, EVPN) are automatically filtered on route reflectors (not shown in
Figure 11-6, for diagram simplicity), and distributed only to the TNEs requiring specific service prefixes. This is achieved with constrained route distribution.
- Only these automatically filtered service NLRIs are installed in the forwarding plane, using
the BGP-LU transport label of the required BGP-LU prefix (remote TNE loopback). Therefore, usage of forwarding plane resources is highly minimized.
- Further optimization of control plane resources is possible, where TNE (PE) requests from
route reflector only limited set of BGP-LU prefixes. This can be achieved with outbound route filtering (ORF) of BGP-LU prefixes with ORF filter automatically generated to allow only BGP-LU prefixes required to resolve protocol next-hops of accepted (filtered with constrained route distribution mechanism) service NLRIs. With Seamless MPLS architecture, ingress PE uses recursive next-hop resolution, where service NLRI received from remote PE is resolved over BGP protocol next-hop (BGP-LU loopback of remote PE), which in turn is resolved over local intra-domain MPLS tunnel (SR/SR-TE or legacy

# 32 RSVP/LDP).

# O -R U

# O -R U

# O -R U

# O -R U
In tra-d o m ain tu n n e ls (LD P , R S V P , S R /S R -T E ) In te r-d o m ain (e n d -to - en d ) co lo red B G P -C T tu n n e ls tu n n e le d in sid e in tra-d o m ain tu n n e l in each d o m ain

# A P R E -A C C E S S
IS IS L 1 LD P à LD P: 66 Im pl. N ull ISIS + BFD ISIS + BFD BG P-LU NHS

# V V

# G G R E G A T IO N A G G R E G A IS IS L 2
SR/SR-TE SR-TE stack: 24, 26, 29 ISIS + BFD ISIS + BFD no leaking 88 BG P-LU NHS NHS NHS

# 29 29 29

# 88 88 88 88

# V V V V

# T IO N

# A S X
NHS A BG P-LU 99V

# S Y
NHS C NHS

# O R E
RSVP à RSVP: 71 Im ISIS + BFD BG P-LU 71V

# E D G
pl. N ull ISIS + BFD NHS V E

# B G P -L U d istrib u te s p re fix e s
(ro u te r’s lo o p b a c k s) to g e th e r w ith th e ir la b e ls, a c ro ss a ll d o m a in s, w ith fo llo w in g sc a lin g o p tim iz a tio n : § B G P -L U n o t in sta lle d in th e fo rw a rd in g p la n e (ju st in th e à c o n tro l p la n e ) ty p ic a l tra n sp o rt n o d e c o n tro l p la n e sc a le s fe w tim e s (1 0 x ) b e tte r th a n fo rw a rd in g p la n e § B G P se rv ic e p re fix e s (L 3 V P N ,

# E V P N ) u se a u to m a tic
c o n stra in e d ro u te d istrib u tio n à (R F C 4 6 8 4 ) o n ly re q u ire d

# B G P se rv ic e p re fix e s d e liv e re d
§ O p tio n a lly : O u tb o u n d R o u te F ilte rin g (O R F , R F C 5 2 9 2 ) g e n e ra te d a u to m a tic a lly fro m th e n e x t-h o p s o f re c e iv e d B G P se rv ic e p re fix e s, fu rth e r d e c re a se s th e sc a lin g p re ssu re ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 If an operator wishes to use Seamless MPLS architecture for enhanced scaling of an MPLS underlay, then the transport device will require: [R26]: MUST support “Seamless MPLS architecture”, draft-ietf-mpls-seamless-mpls [177] (note: this is an expired IETF draft but is a widely referenced document that describes the architecture) [R27]: MUST support BGP Labelled Unicast (BGP-LU), as defined in RFC3107/RFC8277 [67][131] [D24]: SHOULD support Constrained Route Distribution for BGP/MPLS virtual private networks, RFC4684 [89] [R28]: MAY support Outbound Route Filter (ORF) for BGP, RFC5291/RFC5292 [97][98] In scenarios where seamless MPLS is operating in heterogeneous environments where some domains are LDP based and some are SR based, then a Segment Routing Mapping Server can be used to provide an interworking function between the two environments. [D25]: SHOULD support Segment Routing MPLS Interworking with LDP, RFC8661 [147] IETF conducts work on enhancing the Seamless MPLS architecture to support inter-domain, multi- plane (multi-color) underlay transport infrastructure, as depicted in Figure 11-7. For example, one colored underlay transport plane (represented by color ‘A’) might be optimized for low latency, while another colored underlay transport plane (represented by color ‘B’) might be optimized for high-capacity, but not necessarily low-latency. More detailed discussion about colored underlay transport planes, and mapping of slice services to these colored underlay transport planes can be found in Section 18.1. ACCESS PRE-AGGREGATION AGGREGATION CORE EDGE AS X AS Y O-RU ISIS L1 ISIS L2 O-RU (Flex c - o A lo lg r o e , d co i l n o t r r e a d - R d S o V m P a , i c n o l t o u r n ed n e SR ls -TE) (Flex c - o A lo lg r o e , d co i l n o t r r e a d - R d S o V m P a , i c n o l t o u r n ed n e SR ls -TE) (Flex c - o A lo lg r o e , d co i l n o t r r e a d - R d S o V m P a , i c n o l t o u re n d n e SR ls -TE) Flex-AlgoNode-SID: 66 SR-TE stack: 24, 26, 29 RSVP: 71 àImpl. Null O-RU O-RU ISIS + BFD ISIS + BFD ISIS + BFD ISIS + BFD ISIS + BFD ISIS + BFD 77 no leaking 88 99 3 BGP (with new IETF extensions) distributes Intra-domain colored BGP BGP BGP BGP-CT prefixes (router’s loopbacks) for each colored tunnels (Flex-Algo, NHS NHSNHS NHSNHS NHSNHS NHS underlay (transport plane across all domains. RSVP, SR-TE) 26 26

# 66 29 29 29

# 77 77 88 88 88 88 99 71

# V V V V V V V V V
UNDERLAY A Inter-domain (end-to-end) colored BGP tunnels tunneled UNDERLAY B inside intra-domain tunnel in each domain

# 27 UNDERLAY C
Figure 11-7 Seamless MPLS architecture with colored underlay transport planes To this end, within the IETF Inter-Domain Routing WG there are two active experimental IETF drafts on BGP enhancements to support this enhanced architecture. As these IETF standards mature and are found to benefit packet switched xHaul, future versions of this document may describe in detail the BGP mechanisms chosen by the IETF to convey the inter-domain multi- plane/multi-color transport information. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 17 Figure 11-8 General concept of a controller-based architecture
The figure above shows network simplification and scalability by:
- Creating a multi domain topology, each with its own PCE Controller
- Removing extensive Route leaking and filtering requirements between IGP domains.
- Removing the need for the headend to populate its routing table with topology and routing
information.
- Use Passive Stateful PCE Path Computation Request/Response as per RFC 8231 to create
an end-to-end path. Each domain may have its own path consideration and constraints that can independently be implemented and communicated to the PCE/PCEs. PCEs can calculate end to end path based on these constraints and communicated to the headend TNE via PCEP as shown in Figure 11-9. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 Figure 11-9 Path with Domain specific constraints using PCE based architecture The SID list provided by the PCE to the headend is in actuality a label stack. Depending on the network size and the use-case, the SID list may exceed the platform’s label stack capacity. In those cases, the SID list across domains could be further optimized by using techniques offered by one of the following two architectures.
- Using Forwarding Adjacency (FA) between domain boundaries, with associated Adjacency

# 11 SID, abstracting the path between domain boundaries
- Using SR-TE policies between domain boundaries, with associated Binding SID, abstracting
the path between domain boundaries Both these approaches are optional architectures that could be used to further optimize the size of the label stack in controller-based solutions. While the PCE is shown as a separate entity in the figure above, an operator may choose to either have PCE functionality integrated into the infrastructure router(s) or use a dedicated device or devices for PCE. As long as the PCE’s in the distributed PCE layer can exchange topology information and communicate with their respective PCEP clients, the positioning of PCE functionality can be a choice an operator makes based on their respective network environment. Following are the requirements that should be met for implementing a controller-based architecture. These additions are in addition to baseline Segment Routing and Segment Routing Traffic

# 26 Engineering requirements already mentioned:
[R29]: MUST support BGP Link State (BGP-LS), RFC9552 [165] [R30]: MUST Support BGP-LS Extensions for SR as per RFC9085 [155] [D26]: SHOULD support "Signaling Maximum SID Depth using Border Gateway Protocol Link- State", RFC8814 [152] [R31]: MUST support “Segment Routing Policy Architecture”, RFC9256 [158] [R32]: MUST support "Path Computation Element Protocol (PCEP)", RFC5440 [107] ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 [R33]: MUST support PCEP for communication between CSR and PCE as per “Path Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for Segment Routing”, RFC-8664 [148] [D27]: SHOULD support PCEP extension to support Segment Routing Policy Candidate Paths as per draft-ietf-pce-segment-routing-policy-cp [176] [D28]: SHOULD support “PCEP Extensions for Stateful PCE”, RFC8231 [D29]: SHOULD support “BGP – Link State (BGP-LS) Advertisement of IGP Traffic Engineering Performance Metric Extensions”, RFC8571 [143]

# 11 11.5.2.1 Forwarding Adjacency architecture for cross domain scale
Forwarding Adjacency abstracting the path between domain boundary routers is one of the ways to optimize and scale a controller based Xhaul architecture. Forwarding Adjacency architecture is based on following architectural concepts:
- Transport network is divided into multiple smaller routing domains. Routing domains can
be represented by separate BGP autonomous systems, or separate IGP domains (areas). Or, combination of BGP autonomous systems and IGP areas, where BGP autonomous systems are further divided with IGP areas.
- The size of each routing domain might vary, but must be chosen in such a way, that even
the weakest transport device in given routing domain can participate in intra-domain routing and intra-domain MPLS path (SR, SR-TE, Flex-Algo, RSVP, LDP) establishment without any scaling concerns
- Head-end router (border router) of intra-domain LSP advertises the intra-domain LSP (of
any kind, i.e. SR, SR-TE, Flex-Algo, RSVP, LDP) as standard link in BGP Link State (LS) topology database, with attributes similar to standard link, like for example SR Adjacency-SID, administrative group (link color, link affinity), SRLG, etc. IGP forwarding adjacency is established (RFC 4206) between domain border routers creating abstracted topology of the routing domain.
- BGP-LS (RFC 8571) is used to distribute abstracted topology. Given the fact that only
border routers, and only abstracted forwarding adjacency links between these border routers are exported, the size of the topology database exported via BGP-LS is considerably smaller. BGP-LS distribution can happen in two way, depending on the overall network scale o BGP-LS topology is exchanged between routers in different routing domains o BGP-LS topology is exchanged between PCEs in distributed PCE layer The first approach is more suitable for small to medium scale deployments. In this approach, any Transport Network Equipment has the detailed topology visibility of the local routing domain, and abstracted (with Forwarding Adjacencies advertised as links in BGP-LS) visibility of the remote routing domains. This significantly reduces the topology database stored on the Transport Network Equipments, therefore, in small/medium deployments PCE might not be necessary. The headend PE, based on the full topology database (detailed topology from local routing domain + topology abstracted with links representing forwarding adjacencies from remote routing domains), performs calculation of end-to-end SR-TE paths (local constrained shortest path first – CSPF – calculation). Each forwarding adjacency is represented in the resulting SR-TE label stack as single Adjacency-SID associated with given forwarding adjacency, regardless of the underlying ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 MPLS transport used for given forwarding adjacency. At each border node, this Adjacency SID is mapped to the actual transport label stack (LDP, RSVP, SR, SR-TE) used for the given forwarding adjacency.

# 5 This concept is outlined in Figure 11-10.

# 7 Figure 11-10 Forwarding Adjacency architecture
As further scaling optimization of this architecture, ingress PEs (typically cell site routers, with limited control plane resources required for efficient end-to-end path computation) can be off- loaded from end-to-end path computation. Distributed PCEs (Path Computation Elements) can be placed on more powerful transport devices (for example pre-aggregation or aggregation routers), or containerized/virtualized PCE function can be placed in the distributed telco cloud environment to execute end-to-end path computation duties over simplified (via forwarding adjacencies) full network topology. In this scenario, ingress PE requests from PCE on demand path computation for unresolved next-hops, as outlined in Figure 11-11. Figure 11-11 Forwarding Adjacency architecture with distributed PCE layer ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 If an operator wishes to use a forwarding adjacency based architecture for enhanced scaling of

# 3 MPLS underlay, then the transport device will require:
[R34]: MUST support “forwarding adjacency links”, RFC4206 [133]

#### 11.5.2.2 Using Binding SID (BSID) for cross domain scale
As mentioned earlier, a controller-based architecture make use of the PCE to provides the SID list to the headend for an end-to-end path across multiple domains. If no constraints are imposed on the traffic, the SID list would consist of Area Border Routers Prefix SIDs as next hop. Traffic within the domain will use IGP to get to the next hop while utilizing well established IGP routing mechanism such as Equal Cost Multi Path (ECMP), metric based best path etc. At the ABR, the top most SID is popped and the new next hop SID/Label is exposed, starting the routing within the next IGP are or domain. The process is repeated until traffic reaches its destination. Figure 11-12 shows such behaviour between IGP Domain 0,1 and 2.

# 23 Figure 11-12 Basic SID list with no constraints
There may be scenarios where more explicit path considerations and constraints could be required, such as using low latency path or inclusion/exclusion of certain links or node. In those scenarios, rather than provide a SID list that encompasses every link/node through the path, mechanisms such as Flex Algo could be used to optimize the SID list on the head end. Figure 11-13 shows a scenario with latency and link/node constraints across the path. In this case operator may use Flex-Algo within a domain and use the PCE controller to provide SID list to the headend accordingly. Notice while the SID depth is no different from the earlier scenario Figure 11-13) and while it still only contain prefix-SIDs of ABR as next hop label, the SID’s now refer to the node’s Flex-Algo Prefix SID, instead of default algo SID. Due to this, the traffic behavior is also different and the next Hop

# 34 SID automatically uses the desired constraints-based path.
ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 3 Figure 11-13 Constraint based SID list with Flex-Algorithm
In scenarios where an operator is unable or unwilling to use Flex-Algo for SID list optimization, an SRTE Binding SID (BSID) could be used. A Binding SID is a fundamental component of Segment Routing network that may be used to provide SID and network scaling. A BSID is a SID that is associated with an SRTE policy’s active path and is a representation of an End-to-End candidate path. BSIDs could be used to provide additional scale by using nested SRTE policies across domains. The PCE instead of providing a full path through multiple domains, may provide the headend with a path within its own domain and a BSID corresponding to the next domain. When, exposed at the domain boundaries, the BSID gets translated into another set of SID List, providing extensibility and scalability throughout the topology. This process is shown in Figure 11-14.

# 18 Figure 11-14 SID scaling using binding SID
Figure 11-14 compares the two scenarios where an End-to-End path is required with latency and link/nodes constraints along the path. The first scenario is where the PCE provides a full SID list to the headend for the entire path, with based path is required end to end. The second scenario uses a Binding, exposed at domain boundaries and then use the appropriate constrains based SID within the domain in question. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 If an operator wishes to implement controller based architectural scaling, in addition to underlying segment-routing based transport with controllers, a device will need to support: [R35]: SHOULD support Binding SID as per draft-ietf-pce-binding-label-sid [175]

## 11.6 MPLS Quality of Service
The MPLS data plane includes a 3-bit field in the MPLS header, the TC – Traffic Class (previously EXP - Experimental) bits. These bits are assignable as a marker for QoS mechanisms in transport nodes to use as a classification and marking tool. The per-hop behavior for MPLS forwarding elements can be defined based on these markings. Because of the restricted size of the TC field, the specific markings are not standardized, but are open for individual operators to define. For a full discussion of a proposed marking scheme and QoS architecture for TNEs in Xhaul, see Chapter 14.

## 11.7 MPLS OAM
Basic OAM tools are Ping and Traceroute. Ping is required to test liveliness to a remote MPLS underlay destination and traceroute is required to trace paths and perform hop-by-hop fault isolation to remote MPLS underlay destination. The following capabilities are required on all TNEs. [R36]: MUST support “Detection of MPLS Data Plane Failures”, RFC8029 [127] [R37]: MUST support LSP Ping/Traceroute for SR IGP Prefix-SID and IGP Adjacency-SID with MPLS Data Plane, as defined in RFC8287 [133]

## 11.8 IP/MPLS service infrastructure
For IPv4, IPv6 and Ethernet services an overlay solution is used. Please refer to section 13 for a description of overlay service recommendations for a 5G Xhaul infrastructure.

# 12 Packet-switched underlay network – SRv6 based
This document presents two packet switched underlay technologies, the first based on MPLS contained in section 11 and the second based on SRv6 contained in this section (section 12). An operator wishing to implement the transport architecture outlined in this document will need to select one of the two and implement the requirements outlined in the associated section. It should be noted that other transport architectures are potentially available but not covered in this revision of the document. This section outlines a packet switched underlay model based on SRv6. SRv6 is based on the segment routing architecture as defined in RFC8402 [139]. For more information on Segment Routing see annex A. In an SRv6 infrastructure, like an MPLS environment, it is important to consider the underlay / fabric of the transport infrastructure somewhat separately from the services that run on-top of the infrastructure. The emphasis with the underlay / fabric is to provide an environment that will scale and support the services required by a 5G infrastructure. In contrast, the services infrastructure runs on-top of the underlay/fabric of the transport network and supports the different components of the 5G infrastructure (Fronthaul,

# 40 Midhaul, Backhaul).
This chapter is specific to an SRv6 underlay/fabric, its data plane, control plane and how to scale it. Although there are some similarities with an SR-MPLS environment, in terms of architecture, there ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 are some key differences in requirements and particularly on how to scale the underlay infrastructure, which is critical in a 5G environment. The service infrastructure and how to support 5G service requirements for both SR-MPLS and SRv6 are covered in a common services section (section 13) as the technologies used and the designs have many similarities.

## 12.1 SRv6 data plane
SRv6 relies on an IPv6 data plane with segments defined using SIDs contained in the IPv6 header. SRv6 SIDs are specified in “Segment Routing Header” (SRH) and standardised in RFC8754 [151].

# 10 Packet switching TNEs supporting SRv6 will need to:
[R38]: MUST support “IPv6 Segment Routing Header (SRH)” RFC8754 [151] [R39]: MUST support “SRv6 Network Programming”, RFC8986 [154] [D30]: SHOULD support “Compressed SRv6 Segment List Encoding in SRH”, draft-ietf-spring- srv6-srh-compression [178]

## 12.2 SRv6 control plane
The SRv6 control plane refers to routing and path control within the SRv6 underlay/fabric. This infrastructure can extend to customer devices or stop at a Provider Edge (PE) function. Its role can be summarised as learning the topology, calculation, and implementation of dynamic and explicit routes across the SRv6 infrastructure and providing rapid protection and repair mechanisms. In a packet switched transport network consisting of a large number of routers, a mix of WAN and data centers components, the need to support traffic engineering, the underlay control plane is a typically a collection of independent routing domains that interact in a collaborate fashion.

# 28 Figure 12-1 SRv6 underlay architecture
Figure 12-1 illustrates how a large packet-switched transport infrastructure might be designed and how different components interact. It should be noted that not all these components are required, and some serve the same purpose but in different ways. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 1. Each routing domain has an IGP for internal connectivity. 2. Mechanisms to calculate SR policies or Traffic Engineer paths and convey them to the source nodes. Figure 12-1 shows a distributed “Path Computation Element” (PCE), with “Path Computation Element Protocol” (PCEP) running between the edge nodes and the PCE but there are other network-based mechanisms to calculate SR policies such as Flex-algo running in the IGP or head-end calculated paths. 3. Mechanisms to convey routing between IGP domains. This could be provided by summarization and redistribution, E-BGP between AS boundaries or via a multi-domain “Path Computation Element” (PCE). One of the key differences between an MPLS and IPv6 based underlay is that IPv6 enables address summarization within routing domains and also between routing domains. This makes an IPv6 based underlay network more scalable and less complex than a corresponding MPLS solution. 4. Mechanisms to convey topology and network state information from the network to the PCE and other central management elements. BGP Link State (BGP-LS) and Telemetry feeds are recommended tools to fulfil this requirement.

# 16 12.2.1 Interior Gateway Protocol (IGP) for SRv6
SRv6 requires at least one IPv6 IGP per routing domain or autonomous system. There are two IGPs that support SRv6; ISIS for IPv6 or OSPFv3. They are both link-state protocols and have similar capabilities but there are operational differences which is beyond the scope of this document. The IGP provides internal connectivity within a routing domain. The size of a routing domain is determined by technical, operational and organizational considerations, such as protocol scalability and spans of control. In large networks, such as a 5G infrastructure, extending from the access to the transport core, it is very common to see multiple autonomous systems, IGPs and segmentation within the IGPs. In an SRv6 environment the IGP is responsible for distributing node, prefix and SID information to all nodes within the routing domain and for calculating the forward tables between these nodes. Optionally it can provide fast convergence mechanisms and distribute traffic engineering attributes within the domain and build multiple transport planes. Both IS-IS for IPv6 and OSPFv3 have facilities to create a hierarchical routing structure within a routing domain using levels and areas respectively. They also have the facility to bring external routing information into a routing domain and push routing information into other routing domains using route redistribution. Note: There are other techniques to achieve route re-distribution between routing domains, such as

# 36 BGP and centralised SDN controllers.
Note: When looking at SRv6 IGP requirements, there are sets of requirements for ISIS for IPv6 and OSPFv3. Operators need to follow the requirements associated with IGPs they are using within their network infrastructure.

# 40 12.2.1.1 Topology Independent Loop Free Alternative (TiLFA)
In the SRv6 underlay design outlined in this document TiLFA can be used to achieve fast IGP convergence in the event of a network failure. Topology Independent Loop Free Alternative as defined “Topology Independent Fast Reroute” using Segment Routing [174] is an IGP capability supported by Segment Routing that provides a local repair mechanism that achieves 100% coverage within a routing domain against links, nodes and SRLGs failures with convergence times, once failure detection has occurred, H/W dependent but typically less than 50ms. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 For each destination in the network, TI-LFA pre-installs a backup forwarding entry for each protected destination ready to be activated upon detection of the failure of a link used to reach the destination. TI-LFA provides protection in the event of any one of the following: single link failure, single node failure, or single SRLG failure. In link failure mode, the destination is protected assuming the failure of the link. In node protection mode, the destination is protected assuming that the neighbor connected to the primary link has failed. In SRLG protecting mode, the destination is protected assuming that a configured set of links sharing fate with the primary link has failed (e.g. a linecard or a set of links sharing a common transmission pipe). The mechanics of the TiLFA for SRv6 at failure is shown in Figure 12-2 and upon convergence in Figure 12-3. One of the key advantages of TiLFA over some other fast convergence mechanisms, not well illustrated in the example below, is that the TiLFA backup path is the same as the post convergence path, thus minimising micro-loops that can occur as IGPs converge.

# 17 Figure 12-2 TiLFA at failure with SRv6
ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 4 Figure 12-3 Post convergence traffic flow with SRv6

# 5 12.2.1.2 IGP Flexible-Algorithm
IGP Flexible-Algorithm is an IGP based traffic engineering technique that permits multiple forwarding tables to be created in the IGP based on operator programmed criteria. It is a simple, automatic way, in which a packet switched transport network can be traffic engineered, using only the IGP, to create different transport planes designed to meet specific operator defined criteria. Standard ISIS for IPv6 and OSPFv3 use the IGP metric on links and the “Shortest Path First” (SPF) algorithm to calculate the “best” path between an ingress and egress point in the network. For many services this approach is sufficient, however this approach cannot, for example, take into account real-time link latency, utilization, packet loss and whether an ECMP path shares links using the same underlying fibre ducts. IGP Flex-Algo, defined in RFC 9350 [160] is an IGP based Segment Routing traffic engineering capability, that enables an operator to define their own custom algorithm, based on a wide range of variables including: link latency, packet loss, bandwidth, affinity and shared risk link groups (SRLG), to achieve a specific forwarding aim. This is illustrated in Figure 12-4. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 13 12.2.1.3 ISIS for IPv6 base requirements
If an operator wishes to use ISIS for IPv6 with TiLFA and optionally Flexible Algorithm (flex-algo) with SRv6 then the TNE will require: [R40]: MUST support routing IPv6 with ISIS as defined in RFC5308 [102]. [R41]: MUST support RFC 9352: “IS-IS Extensions to Support Segment Routing over IPv6 Data

# 20 Plane” [162]
[R42]: MUST support “Topology Independent Fast Reroute using Segment Routing”, draft-ietf- rtgwg-segment-routing-ti-lfa [174] [R43]: MUST support IS-IS TE Metric Extensions, as defined in RFC5305 [101] and RFC7810 [126]. [D31]: SHOULD support RFC 9350: “IGP Flexible Algorithm”, [160]

# 30 12.2.1.4 OSPFv3 basic requirements
If an operator wishes to use OSPFv3 with TiLFA and optionally flexible Algorithm (flex-algo) with

# 32 SRv6 then the TNE will require:
ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 [R44]: MUST support OSPFv3, RFC5340 [105]. [R45]: MUST support “OSPFv3 Extensions for Segment Routing over IPv6 (SRv6)”, RFC 9513 [163] [R46]: MUST support “Topology Independent Fast Reroute using Segment Routing”, draft-ietf- rtgwg-segment-routing-ti-lfa [174]. [R47]: MUST support OSPFv3 TE Metric Extensions, as defined in RFC5329 [104]. [D32]: SHOULD support RFC 9350: “IGP Flexible Algorithm” [160]

# 12 12.2.2 SRv6 Traffic Engineering
SRv6 supports two forms of SR policies or SR Traffic Engineering. Both solutions rely on the IGP to gather and convey topological and resource information around the network and optionally to a Path Computation Element (PCE) optimized for SR via BGP-LS.

# 16 12.2.2.1 Segment Routing Traffic Engineering (SR-TE)
The SR policy consists of a list of SIDs the packet needs to traverse and is programmed into the packet on the source node. The SID list can consist of a mix of prefix and adjacency SIDs. In SR this form of TE allows a path to be: 1. Loosely source routed where some intermediate points, but not all, are specified between the ingress and egress node. Paths between these intermediate points typically use the shortest path, ECMP based routing determined by the IGP. 2. Explicitly source routed where all intermediate points and even links are specified between the ingress and egress nodes. In all cases, topology information and live network status within a routing domain is distributed within a routing domain by the IGP with suitable extensions. In single routing domain environments path computation can be performed either by individual head-end routers or via a centralised “SR Path Computational Element” (SR-PCE). In multi-domain routing environments, then path computation generally occurs on a “centralised SR-PCE” component that has topology information for all domains being traversed. This function can be a standalone entity or be integrated into strategically placed TNEs. This form of traffic engineering can support loose and explicitly routed paths, low-latency paths, bandwidth-guaranteed paths, and disjoint paths. Precise TE capability depends on the capabilities of the SR-PCE component.

# 36 12.2.2.2 IGP Flexible Algorithm
IGP Flexible-Algorithm is described in section 12.2.1.2. It is an IGP based traffic engineering technique that permits multiple logical topologies to be created in an IGP domain based on operator programmed criteria. When used in a single IGP routing domain the IGP calculates and maintains the path. The ingress node simply needs to address the packet to the “locator-block” associated with the flexible algorithm. This removes the need for a head-end or centralised PCE path computation element and also keeps SID list to a minimum. This works in a single IGP domain but depending on area border router and autonomous system border router capabilities can be supported in multi-domain environments based on redistribution. For flex-algo requirements in an SRv6 environment see section 12.2.1.3 and 12.2.1.4. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 12 1. IGP based hierarchy

# 13 2. Inter-domain IGP redistribution

# 14 3. Inter AS BGP

# 15 4. Controller based

# 17 12.2.3.1 IGP based hierarchy
Both ISIS for IPv6 and OSPFv3 have the concept of routing hierarchy in their basic designs. In an SRv6 environment, route summarization or injection of a default route between IS-IS levels or OSPFv3 areas is sufficient to enable EVPN or L3VPNs services to be built over an SRv6 hierarchical IGP infrastructure.

# 23 12.2.3.2 Inter-domain IGP redistribution
One or more routers are located on the boundary between two or more IGP routing domains. These routers run multiple IGP instances, so have routing awareness of all the IGPs they participate in. Routing information is mutually re-distributed between the IGP protocols allowing reachability between the domains. This redistribution can be in the form of full routing, summarised routes or even default routes. The choice is dependent on the level of awareness required between domains. See Figure 12-5 for more detail. IGP route re-distribution in both IS-IS for IPv6 and OSPFv3 is a common capability.

# 33 12.2.3.3 Inter-AS BGP based routing
A router in each autonomous system exchanges routing information using BGP-4 supporting the IPv6 address family. It should be noted that this scheme provides better separation than inter- domain IGP redistribution but typically requires separate routers in each autonomous system.

# 37 See Figure 12-6 for more detail.

# 39 12.2.3.4 Controller based path calculation
In this scenario no routing information is exchanged between routing domains at the device level. Instead, each routing domain provides its topology to an SR Path Computation Element (SR-PCE), which is a central SDN control element responsible for determining and finding routes to a destination node on behalf of a source node. Although the SR-PCE is logically a central component, for scale and resiliency reasons it can consist of multiple individual entities distributed around and ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 serving different parts of the network. In this case the source TNE requires very limited visibility of the overall network, as end to end cross-domain path computation is delegated to the SR-PCE.

# A SR-PCE function in an SRv6 underlay transport network has three main functions.
1. Gather data about the topology of the overall SRv6 network underlay. Several options exist: a. The SR-PCE participates in the IGP domains and directly collects each domains IGP link-state database. b. Use BGP Link-State (BGP-LS) with appropriate extensions for SRv6 to collect the IGP’s link-state database from each routing domain. This is done through one or more BGP session between the SR-PCE and a TNE in each routing domain participating in the domain’s IGP. The TNEs retrieve information from the IGP LSDB and distribute it to the controller using the BGP link-state address family. 2. Communications between the PCE and PCC (path computation client) which is the headend TNE. In this document it is assumed to PCEP (path computation Element Protocol) is used as the communication mechanism between the source TNE and the SR-PCE. 3. Path computation. The PCE uses information gathered from the various domains to compute an SR policy consisting of a SID list which packets using the SR policy will traverse. This SID list can be a loosely sourced routed or explicitly source routed.

## 12.3 Scaling an SRv6 underlay infrastructure
Scaling is one of the key challenges in building a packet switched infrastructure supporting 5G services. Communications and support of L2 and L3 VPN services between two SRv6 TNEs relies entirely on IP routing mechanisms on the underlay transport fabric. In SRv6 this is based on longest IP prefix matching and forwarding, so TNEs can support routing and forwarding based on full IPv6 host routes, summarized IPv6 routes or default routing or a combination, derived from dynamic routing protocols or statically defined. Further, different TNEs in the end to end path can use different levels of route summarization appropriate to their position in the network and their computation, memory and NPU/ASIC resources.

# 29 12.3.1 Route summarization and redistribution
Summarization within ISIS for IPv6 and OSPFv3 is part of the base protocol capability and can occur between levels in IS-IS for IPv6 and between areas in OSPFv3 using “Area Border Routers” (ABRs). Summarization is also a common capability when redistributing routes between different routing domains and is also supported between Autonomous Systems using BGP-4 between “Autonomous System Border Routers” (ASBRs). This is illustrated in Figure 12-5 and Figure 12-6 and shows how PE1-4’s routing tables can be controlled through route summarization. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 3 Figure 12-5 Summarization / redistribution using IGPs

# 6 Figure 12-6 Summarization / redistribution using BGP-4
This approach offers considerable flexibility, as operators can choose the level of summarization, ranging from no summarization to default routing between domains depending on the size of the network and level of awareness required between domains. It can also offer inter-domain traffic engineering support based on flexible algorithm within an IGP domain. However, there are some considerations and limitations: 1. Address planning is critical and needs to occur upfront. 2. Route summarization might result in sub-optimal routing in certain designs. 3. Some traffic engineering scenarios cannot be achieved with route summarization alone. 4. A source TNE cannot rely on a host route withdrawal to detect a remote TNE failure covered by a summary route. In this situation over forms of device or service verification are required. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 [D33]: ABRs SHOULD have flex-algorithm aware summarization/redistribution function. This is a local behavior. To use BGP-4 to transmit underlay SRv6 routing between Autonomous Systems requires: [R48]: BGP with IPv6 multi-protocol extensions (RFC1771, RFC2545, RFC2858) [43][50][55]

# 8 12.3.2 Controller based scaling
Route summarization and redistribution is simple and allows massive scale and allows end to end traffic engineering based on flex-algo. However, some traffic engineering scenarios cannot be achieved, such as path diversity and bandwidth optimization, because summarization hides topological details. To achieve more complex TE solutions, end-to-end visibility of the network is required, and a controller-based solution based on an SR-PCE is used. The SR-PCE receives detailed topology information via BGP-LS protocol from each domain. The SR-PCE then has a full picture of end to from SR-PCE via PCEP protocol. SR-PCE responds with stack of SIDs to establish path to egress

# 19 PE.
Figure 12-7 illustrates an SR-PCE based solution where PE1 needs to establish shortest path to PE3.

# 24 Figure 12-7 Path computation based on SR-PCE
1. SR-PCE gathers topology from each domain via BGP-LS.

# 27 2. PE1 sends a PCEP request to SR-PCE
3. PCE will respond with list of SIDs fcbb:bb00:300, fcbb:bb00:203:ffff::. For more complex path establishment SR-PCE will provide more complex SID list. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 [R49]: PCE and at least one TNE in each domain MUST support BGP Link State (BGP-LS), RFC9552 [165] [R50]: SR-PCE and at least one TNE in each domain MUST support “Border Gateway Protocol - Link State (BGP-LS) Extensions for Segment Routing over IPv6 (SRv6)”, RFC9514 [164] [D34]: SR-PCE and at least one TNE in each domain SHOULD support extensions to advertise Flexible Algorithm Definition as part of the topology, RFC 9351 [161] [R51]: SR-PCE and TNEs providing PE functionality MUST support Path Computation Element Protocol (PCEP), as described in RFC5440 [107] [R52]: SR-PCE and TNEs providing PE functionality MUST support PCEP protocol client functionality with SRv6 extensions, RFC9603 [167] [D35]: SR-PCE SHOULD support “IGP Flexible Algorithm be able to compute paths based on different flexible algorithms

# 18 12.3.3 SRv6 scaling conclusion
To build an underlay transport network that is highly scalable and supports traffic engineering the simplest way is to uses a multi-domain IGP that supports flex-algo and use address summarization. This design might not be sufficient for all application requirements. In these instances, a PCE based solution could be deployed in tandem for TE use cases that require additional network visibility.

## 12.4 IPv6 Quality of Service
The IPv6 packet includes a 6-bit field in the IPv6 header, the DiffServ Code Point (DSCP). These bits are assignable as a marker for QoS mechanisms in transport nodes to use as a classification and marking tool. The per-hop behavior for IPv6 forwarding elements can be defined based on these markings. For a full discussion of a proposed marking scheme and QoS architecture for TNEs in

# 28 Xhaul, section 14.

## 12.5 SRv6 OAM
SRv6 OAM functionality is required to understand the status of the network. SRv6 OAM is described in “Operations, Administration, and Maintenance (OAM) in Segment Routing over IPv6 (SRv6)” RFC 9259 [159]

### 12.5.1 Ping / Traceroute to a remote IPv6 network address
Ping is required to test liveliness to a remote SRv6 underlay address and traceroute is required to trace paths and perform hop-by-hop fault isolation to remote SRv6 underlay address. The following capabilities are required on all TNEs. [R53]: TNEs MUST support ICMPv6 (RFC4443) [83] [R54]: TNEs MUST support IPv6 ping to query liveliness of a remote IPv6 address along the shortest path for default SPF algorithm. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 [R55]: TNEs MUST support IPv6 ping to query liveliness of a remote IPv6 address along a path calculated by a flex-algorithm. [R56]: TNEs MUST support IPv6 ping to query liveliness of a remote IPv6 address along a path designated by a list of SIDs. [R57]: TNEs MUST support IPv6 traceroute to trace the path to a remote IPv6 address along the shortest path for default SPF algorithm [R58]: TNEs MUST support IPv6 traceroute to trace the path to a remote IPv6 address along a path calculated by a flexible algorithm. [R59]: TNEs MUST support IPv6 traceroute to trace the path to a remote IPv6 address along a path designated by a list of SIDs.

# 16 12.5.2 Ping / Traceroute to remote SID functions
Ping is required to test liveliness to a remote SID and traceroute is required to trace paths and perform hop-by-hop fault isolation to a remote SRv6 SID. The following capabilities are required on all Transport Nodes. [R60]: TNEs MUST support IPv6 ping to query liveliness of a remote EVPN and L3VPN services along the shortest path for default SPF algorithm. [R61]: TNEs MUST support IPv6 ping to query liveliness of a remote EVPN and L3VPN services along a path calculated by a flex-algorithm. [R62]: TNEs MUST support IPv6 ping to query liveliness of a remote EVPN and L3VPN service along a path designated by a list of SIDs. [R63]: TNEs MUST support IPv6 traceroute to trace the path to a remote EVPN and L3VPN service along the shortest path for default algorithm [R64]: TNEs MUST support IPv6 traceroute to trace the path to a remote EVPN and L3VPN service along a path calculated by a flexible algorithm. [R65]: TNEs MUST support IPv6 traceroute to trace the path to a remote EVPN and L3VPN service along a path designated by a list of SIDs.

## 12.6 SRv6 Service infrastructure
An SRv6 transport underlay supports basic IPv6 services natively at the control and data plane. For Ethernet, IPv4 and IPv6 VPN services an overlay control plane infrastructure is used to convey VPN connectivity information. At the data plane the P devices can utilise a standard IPv6 data plane with the PE devices requiring an IPv6 data plane with SRv6 VPN network programming awareness [154]. Please refer to section 13 for a description of overlay service recommendations for a 5G

# 45 Xhaul infrastructure.
ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 13 Packet-switched Xhaul services Infrastructure
To support an Xhaul environment requires the packet switched network to support L2 and L3 services. Both an MPLS and IPv6 packet switched underlays use EVPN to support L2 and MP-BGP

# 4 L3VPNs.

## 13.1 MP-BGP design
Both EVPN and MP-BGP L3VPNs use MP-BGP, with appropriate address-family support for EVPN and L3VPN, to convey service connectivity information between Provider Edge (PE) equipment. Typically, the MP-BGP infrastructure for L2 and L3 services uses a Route Reflector design rather than an I-BGP mesh between all PEs. In large networks, operators will normally implement a hierarchical Route Reflector (RR) design for Multi-Protocol BGP (MP–BGP) peering. A pair of Route Reflectors (RR) could be used at every domain to provide scalability and extensibility. Figure 13-1 Hierarchical Route Reflector Design for Multiple Protocol BGP Figure 13-1 shows the Hierarchical Route Reflector Design utilizing RR pairs in each network domain, all peering with National Route Reflector core.

## 13.2 Ethernet services
Ethernet services will be provided by EVPN over either MPLS or IPv6 depending on the underlay network employed by the operator. More details on EVPN are provided in annex B. EVPN VPWS can be used as transport service for Open Fronthaul (eCPRI), as well a transport service for Radio over Ethernet (RoE) as outlined in following Figure 13-2 and Figure 13-3. eCPRIflow EVPN VPWS Hub site Cell site CSR HSR eCPRI O-RU O-DU Fronthaul

# 28 Figure 13-2 EVPN VPWS for eCPRI
ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 CPRI flow RoEflow EVPN VPWS Hub site Cell site CSR HSR RoE RRH RoE RoE BBU Mapper Mapper Fronthaul

# 3 Figure 13-3 EVPN VPWS for RoE
To support EVPN VPWS for eCPRI or RoE, the transport device will need to support: [D36]: SHOULD support “Flow-Aware Transport of Pseudowires over an MPLS Packet Switched Network”, RFC 6391 [117] [R66]: MUST support “Virtual Private Wire Service Support in Ethernet VPN”, RFC 8214 [129] [D37]: If the Flow-Aware Transport is supported, then MUST support “Extensions to BGP-Signaled Pseudowires to Support Flow-Aware Transport Labels”, Internet Engineering Task Force, RFC 8395 [138] [R67]: If using SRv6 as the underlay technology TNEs providing PE functionality MUST support “BGP Overlay Services Based on Segment Routing over IPv6 (SRv6)”, Internet Engineering Task Force, RFC 9252 [157]

# 20 13.2.1 Ethernet services redundancy
EVPN VPWS can provide redundancy for O-RU to O-DU (Open Fronthaul) interface to react to the transport network errors that might occur.

# 24 13.2.1.1 Ethernet services redundancy – Option 1
eCPRIflow EVPN VPWS Hub site HSR-1 Cell site MAC-A MAC-B CSR O-RU eCPRI O-DU Fronthaul

# 25 HSR-2

# 27 Figure 13-4 EVPN VPWS redundancy option 1
This option assumes that O-DU supports Link Aggregation Group (LAG, also called Ethernet bundling) and terminates the eCPRI stream on a MAC address associated with the Ethernet bundle ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 (e.g. MAC-B in the diagram). Therefore, eCPRI stream can arrive on any physical interface (via HSR-1 or via HSR-2) to O-DU, and O-DU might sent eCPRI stream, again, on any interface (via

# 3 HSR-1 or via HSR-2) (see Figure 13-4).
To facilitate fast failover in case of HSRO-DU link failure, following architectural design choices are recommended:
- O-DU uplinks towards HSR pair should be bundled on O-DU to create Link Aggregation

# 9 Group (LAG), often called an “Ethernet bundle”.
- EVPN VPWS service should be terminated on HSR pair as ‘multi-homed all-active’ service
When O-RU generates eCPRI stream towards O-DU, this stream can be sent from CSR via EVPN VPWS leg towards HSR-1, or via EVPN VPWS leg towards HSR-2. It is CSR implementation choice, towards which HSR eCPRI stream will be sent. In case multiple O-RUs are connected to single CSR, and multiple eCPRI streams are forwarded from CSR towards O-DU via HSR pair, each eCPRI stream might take differen path (i.e. via HSR-1 or HSR-2). When for example HSR-1O-DU link failure happens, following EVPN failure detection machinery, the EVPN VPWS leg between CSR and HSR-1 is disabled, and eCPRI stream flows now over HSR-2. Since EVPN VPWS termination on HSR-2 was originally ‘active’ (multi-homed all-active service) no special forwarding plane reprogramming is needed on HSR-2, allowing quick delivery of rerouted eCPRI streams towards O-DU, as outlined in Figure 13-5. Figure 13-5 EVPN VPWS Redundancy option 1 – failure event

# 27 13.2.1.2 Ethernet services redundancy – Option 2
Option 2 is similar to option 1, with the difference that O-DU expects to receive eCPRI stream on a particular interface (for example, on the interface from HSR-1), as outlined in Figure 13-6

# O -R U

# M A C -A
e E C V P P R N I flo w

# V P W S
C e ll s ite

# C S R
F r o n th a u l e C P R I

# H S R

# H S R
-1 -2

# M A C
H -B O u b s ite -D U eCPRIflow EVPN VPWS Hub site HSR-1 DF Cell site MAC-A MAC-B CSR O-RU eCPRI O-DU Fronthaul nDF HSR-2 ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 6 Group (LAG), often called an “Ethernet bundle”.
- EVPN VPWS service should be terminated on HSR pair as ‘multi-homed single-active’
service
- Deterministic Designated Forwarder (DF) election should be used on HSR pair, to ensure
that one of the HSR is deterministically elected as ‘active’ forwarder (DF), and second HSR is deterministically elected as ‘standby’/’passive’ forwarder (non-DF)
- Per physical port (rather than default per-VLAN) DF election should be used on HSR pair
- HSR should signal the non-DF status to O-DU via OAM (for example LACP – Link

# 14 Aggregation Control Protocol – Out of Sync signalling)
In addition to requirements already mentioned in the main section, to support this option following requirements must be supported on HSR: [R68]: MUST support “Preference-based EVPN DF Election", draft-ietf-bess-evpn-pref-df [171] [R69]: MUST support "EVPN multi-homing port-active load-balancing", draft-ietf-bess-evpn-mh- pa [170] As outlined in Figure 13-7, when HSR-1O-DU link failure happens, following EVPN failure detection machinery, the EVPN VPWS leg between CSR and HSR-1 is disabled, HSR-2 becomes DF and EVPN VPWS leg between CSR and HSR-2 is enabled. Additionally, LACP Out-of-Sync state from HSR-2 to O-DU is cleared, allowing forwarding over the HSR-2O-DU link. eCPRI stream flows now over HSR-2. As opposed to Option 1, since EVPN VPWS termination on HSR-2 was originally ‘standby’ (multi-homed single-active service), DF election, LACP OOS clearance and forwarding plane reprogramming is needed on HSR-2, thus failover is longer than in case of

# 31 Option 1.
Figure 13-7 EVPN VPWS Redundancy Option 2 -failure event

# 36 13.2.1.3 Ethernet services redundancy – Option 3
Option 3 is further modification of option 2. It is suitable for O-DUs that do no support LAG bundling, but have the capability to terminate eCPRI stream on some internal virtual MAC, allowing reception of eCPRI stream over any uplink.

# O -R U

# M A C -A
e E C V P P R N I flo w

# V P W S
C e ll s ite

# C S R
F r o n th a u l e C P R I

# H S R

# H S R
-1 -2 nD F

# D F

# M A C
H -B O u b s ite -D U ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 28 13.2.1.4 Ethernet services redundancy – Option 4
Option 4 is suitable for O-DUs with only basic Ethernet support. i.e. O-DUs not supporting LAG, internal bridge, or virtual MAC for eCPRI stream termination. Therefore, O-DU is represented by two MAC addresses: MAC-B, on the link towards HSR-1, and MAC-C, on the link towards HSR-2. O O -R -R U U M M A A C C -A -A e E e E C V C V P P P P R N R N I flo w

# V P W S
C e ll s ite

# C S R
I flo w

# V P W S
C e ll s ite

# C S R
F F r r o o n n th th a a u u l l e e C C P P R R I I

# H S R

# H S R

# H S R

# H S R
-1 -2 -1 -2 M M A A C C -B O -B O H -D H -D u U u U b b s s ite ite ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# V P W S
C e ll s ite

# C S R
I flo w

# V P W S
C e ll s ite

# C S R
F F r r o o n n th th a a u u l l e e C C P P R R I I

# H S R

# H S R

# H S R

# H S R
-1 -2 -1 -2

# D F
nD F

# D F
nD F M M M M A A A A C C C C H -B O -C H -B O -C u b s ite -D U u b s ite -D U ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

## 13.3 IP Services
Mobile IP services will be provided by MP-BGP based L3 VPNs (RFC4364) [88] over MPLS or SRv6 depending on the underlay network technology employed by the operator. More details on

# 9 13.3.1 Building flexible L3VPN service topologies
L3VPN services can be used to establish L3 connectivity between various mobile components. BGP L3 VPN support both IPv4 and IPv6 VPNs and offer flexible connectivity models including:

# 12 • IP N:N multipoint services

# 13 • IP 1:N multipoint services

# 14 • IP 1:1 connectivity services

# 17 Figure 13-12 Flexible L3 VPN service topologies

# 18 13.3.2 Constraints based Traffic Steering in L3VPNs
By default, BGP based L3VPN use shortest path routing across the transport underlay. However, BGP based VPN traffic can also get automatically steered into SR policy, such as one created by a flexible algorithm or a point-to-point TE tunnel. This is achieved by coloring VPN routes within MP-BGP with extended community attributes. As illustrated in Figure 13-13 this can be done in two ways 1. While defining a VRF, define a color for all Prefixes associated with that VRF, or 2. When sending or receiving BGP routes, using a policy to “color” the route. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 Figure 13-13 Import / Export of route colors for SR policy selection In either case, the VPN route will now be tagged with a color and traffic for the destination will automatically get steering into an SR policy based on the color associated with the VPN route. An operator using MP-BGP L3VPN services for Xhaul, TNEs need to support: [R71]: MUST support Multiprotocol Extensions for BGP-4, RFC4760 [90] [R72]: MUST Support BGP/MPLS IP Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), RFC4364 [88] [D38]: SHOULD support SRTE Policy configuration as RFC 9256 [158], if SRTE policies are used with L3VPN services [D39]: SHOULD support EVPN and L3VPN traffic steering based on “color extended community BGP attributes” defined in RFC5512 [110] [D40]: SHOULD support to color extended community attribute for VPNv4, VPNv6 and EVPN BGP address families defined in RFC5512 [110] [R73]: If using SRv6 as the underlay technology TNEs providing PE functionality MUST support “BGP Overlay Services Based on Segment Routing over IPv6 (SRv6)”, Internet Engineering Task Force, RFC 9252 [157]

# 14 Quality of Service in packet-switched networks
This chapter discusses the Quality of Service (QoS) capabilities that must be deployed to support the delivery of Xhaul traffic and non-Xhaul traffic in the RAN network.

## 14.1 Xhaul transport core interface QoS
For the purposes of this document, the transport network domain will be considered to be constructed of two interface types. Core interfaces and edge interfaces. An interface is considered to be transport network core if it is interconnecting two devices inside the transport domain. An interface is considered transport network edge if it is connecting to an element outside the transport domain. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 11 14.1.2 Core interface queue structure
The Xhaul domain must support a differentiated QoS architecture supporting priority queueing and scheduling with weighted fair queue scheduler for non-priority packets. [R76]: MUST support EF forwarding described in IETF RFC 3246 [66] mapped to a strict priority scheduler with shaping and policing to prevent bandwidth starvation of other classes. [R77]: MUST support AF forwarding model described in IETF RFC 2597 [51] mapped to a WFQ,

# 18 WRR or MDRR scheduler for non-priority classes.
[R78]: MUST support the ability to manipulate queue depths

# 21 14.1.2.1 Flat queue model
In the flat queue model, the TNE should support a single level of queue on each physical interface. This model is used for a single topology infrastructure, or a “soft slicing” where the QoS model for each slice is common and bandwidth is dynamically shared between slices.

# 26 Figure 14-1 Example Xhaul queue model
The system should be capable of supporting a minimum of six queues within the core domain. An example queuing model is provided in Figure 14-1which should be adapted to fit the available queue and scheduling model available in the deployed hardware. All deployments must support a strict priority queue dedicated to latency sensitive front haul traffic (shown as queue marking 5). This queue must be serviced in strict priority over all other queues up ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 to its shaped or policed limit. If the node is providing transit for G.8275.2 PTPoIP as a PTP unaware element, then PTP packets MUST also be scheduled in this queue. If the hardware supports multiple levels of strict priority queueing, and is a PTP unaware node, then PTP MAY also be scheduled in a dedicated highest priority queue to minimise packet delay variation (PDV). Two further latency sensitive queues are defined, one for network control (shown as queue marking 7) and one for other latency sensitive transit traffic (e.g. latency sensitive Backhaul or Midhaul U- plane or latency sensitive business or consumer traffic) (shown as queue marking 2). These queues should be configured to be serviced with a latency bound suitable for the traffic associated with them. The scheduling model used will be dependent on the specific HW choice. For example, this could be a guaranteed bandwidth queue with suitable scheduler weight and queue depth, or a high priority queue with lower priority scheduling than that for the latency sensitive Fronthaul traffic. Additional queues are defined for guaranteed bandwidth traffic (Management (shown as queue marking 6), guaranteed bandwidth U-plane (shown as queue marking 3,4) and best effort traffic

# 14 (shown as queue marking 0,1)).
Additional queues may be supported if the carrier deems necessary. The example queue model is show in Figure 14-1 provides example MPLS “Traffic Class” (TC) or often called EXP, based classification for the queues. It should be noted that a transport based on SRv6 allows the use of IP DSCP as the QoS marker, allowing for more flexibility in the queue model, and that more queues may be used if the marking scheme and hardware are appropriate. [R79]: MUST support a minimum of 6 HW queues per physical interface

# 22 14.1.2.2 Hierarchical queue model
The hierarchical queue model provides a capability to support a segmented infrastructure “Hard slicing” where the QoS model for each slice is different, or where each slice requires dedicated bandwidth. (see Figure 14-2 for details) Here the model the transport device must support a minimum of two levels of queue hierarchy on each physical interface. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 3 Figure 14-2 Sample hierarchical queue model
In this model the first, or child level defines the queues needed to support the capabilities associated with the slice. These might be the same as in the flat queue model or may be different. In the second or parent level, a scheduler is defined to allocate the maximum bandwidth that will be available to that hard slice. It should be noted that the sum of the guaranteed bandwidth to each shaper should not exceed the interface bandwidth. As with the flat queue model, example is provided which should be adapted for the specific HW in use. [R80]: MUST support a minimum of 6 HW queues per logical interface [R81]: MUST support a minimum of two tiers of configurable scheduler per physical interface

# 15 14.1.3 Transport network core interface marking structure
Transport nodes should preserve the QoS marking of transported frames and packets across the transport network. This should be accomplished via the use of the pipe or short pipe model described in IETF RFC2983[59]. The specific marking structure used to define the transport QoS behaviours is left to the individual providers and is dependent on the transport encapsulation implemented. An example marking structure for MPLS TC values is shown in Figure 14-1.

# 23 14.1.4 Core interface scheduling model
Latency sensitive and network control plane traffic should be forwarded using an expedited forwarding model as described in IETF RFC 3246[66]. In order to preserve minimum latency, these queues should be scheduled with a maximum of one packet in each queue and be allocated a priority forwarding schedule in the NPU. To prevent bandwidth starvation of non-priority scheduled traffic, each priority queue should be shaped or policed at a combined capacity less than the physical rate of each egress interface in the core, and with sufficient bandwidth capacity available ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 for the latency sensitive Fronthaul services they are supporting. Where needed a TSN based scheduler may also be implemented if the interface bandwidth demands such optimisation. Details on TSN may be found in section 10.1.1.2.1. Guaranteed bandwidth queues (management and best effort) should be scheduled using the assured forwarding model described in IETF RFC 2597[51]. These queues should be scheduled using a Weighted Round Robin (WRR), Minimum deficit round robin (MDRR) or weighted fair queue (WFQ) scheduler, depending on the capability available in the NPU. Where network control traffic is assigned to a guaranteed bandwidth queue, the scheduler for that queue must be configured to support minimum latency to ensure time sensitive network control traffic (eg BFD) is not delayed. The scheduler MUST have sufficient buffer capacity to avoid loss in these queues due to the effects of micro-burst caused by the aggregation of traffic from different ingress interfaces, or speed mismatch (higher to lower).

## 14.2 Xhaul transport network edge interface QoS
PE elements in the transport network domain will be responsible for providing logical separation and encapsulation for transport. It can be assumed that there are two types of traffic that will be presented for transport. 1. Ethernet frames. For example, RoE or eCPRI frames not using an IP header. 2. IP packets. For example, eCPRI packets or Backhaul traffic whose encapsulation includes an

# 19 IP header.

### 14.2.1 Transport network domain PE ingress classification of Ethernet frames.
For the purposes of this section, it is assumed that there will be a physical or logical interface attaching the Ethernet frame device to the transport network edge PE. As an example, this could be a Mobile Client, such as a Front Haul Gateway or O-DU supporting an RU using RoE. PE nodes in the transport network will perform classification on traffic ingressing the domain using different models. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 5 14.2.1.1 Untagged frames
As per Figure 14-3(1) the Mobile Client (MC) presents a flow of untagged frames to the PE. The PE uses the local port as the context for the MC. This context must be preserved in the transport network and presented at the port level (untagged) at the remote PE. Because the PE has no knowledge of the MC encapsulation model, or priority needed for each frame, all frames must be given the same appropriate treatment (and transport marking) to support the encapsulation mode. It can be assumed that the operator has this knowledge at the port level and can apply the appropriate local policy for both transport marking and PHB for all frames. These frames should be encapsulated with the appropriate transport and marked with QoS marking for carried in the class defined in section 14.1.2 for Latency sensitive Fronthaul traffic.

# 15 14.2.1.2 Tagged frames (VLAN), PCP unset or untrusted
As per Figure 14-3(2) The RoE mapper presents a flow of VLAN tagged frames to the PE. The PE uses the VLAN and local port as the context for the RoE mapper. This context must be preserved in the transport network and presented at the remote PE with the same VLAN marking. Because the PE has no knowledge of the RoE mapper encapsulation model, or priority needed for each frame, all frames must be given the same appropriate treatment and transport marking, to support the encapsulation mode. It can be assumed that the operator has this knowledge at the either the VLAN or port level and can apply the appropriate local policy for both transport marking and PHB for all frames. These frames should be encapsulated with the appropriate transport and marked with QoS marking for carried in the class defined in 14.1.2 for Latency sensitive Fronthaul traffic.

# 25 14.2.1.3 Tagged frames (VLAN), PCP set and trusted
As per Figure 14-3(3). The RoE mapper presents a flow of VLAN tagged frames to the PE. The PE uses the VLAN and local port as the context for the RoE mapper. This context must be preserved in the transport network and presented at the remote PE with the same VLAN marking. In this model it is assumed that the RoE mapper supports a differential marking scheme for flows requiring different treatment. The marking is placed in the PCP field of the VLAN header (described by IEEE 802.1p). The PE should be capable of classifying flows based on the PCP marking and implementing an appropriate PHB. The PE should also apply an appropriate marking to the frames as supported by the transport model in use. It can be assumed that the operator has this knowledge of the PCP markings from the RoE mapper. Each class presented by the RoE mapper must be mapped to one of the class markings defined in section 14.1.2. It is assumed that the operator has appropriate knowledge to determine this mapping. [R82]: MUST support classification of frames based on 802.1p PCP bit field [R83]: MUST support classification of frames based on incoming logical interface. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 [D41]: SHOULD support ingress policing using a single rate 2 color policer described in RFC2698 [52] or RFC4115 [76] [D42]: SHOULD support ingress policing using a dual rate 3 color policer described in RFC2698 [52] or RFC4115 [76] [R84]: MUST support ingress marking of frames based on result of soft policing using policers in [D41]: and [D42]:.

# 9 14.2.2 Transport domain PE ingress classification IP packets.
Unlike Ethernet frames, IP packets will always have a QoS marking field available to them. As a result, we do not have to be concerned with IP packets arriving unmarked from a QoS perspective and must simply determine if we trust the marking.

# 13 14.2.2.1 Marked packets DSCP untrusted
Similar to Figure 14-3(2). The client element presents a flow of DSCP marked packets to the PE. The PE uses local port as the context for the flow. This context must be preserved in the transport network and presented at the remote PE with the same DSCP marking. Because the PE has no knowledge of the client element encapsulation model, or priority needed for each packet, all packets must be given the same appropriate treatment and transport marking, to support the encapsulation mode. It can be assumed that the operator has this knowledge at the port level and can apply the appropriate local policy for both transport marking and PHB for all frames. These frames should be encapsulated with the appropriate transport and marked with QoS marking for carried in the class defined in section 14.1.2 for Latency sensitive Fronthaul traffic.

# 23 14.2.2.2 Marked packets DSCP trusted
Similar to Figure 14-3. The client element presents a flow of DSCP marked packets to the PE. The PE uses the local port as the context for the flow. This context must be preserved in the transport network and presented at the remote PE with the same DSCP marking. In this model it is assumed that the client element or IP source supports a differential marking scheme for flows requiring different treatment. The marking is placed in the DSCP field of the IP header. The PE should be capable of classifying flows based on the DSCP marking and implementing an appropriate PHB. The PE should also apply an appropriate marking to the frames as supported by the transport model in use. It can be assumed that the operator has this knowledge of the DSCP markings from the client element or IP source. Each class presented by the client element or IP source must be mapped to one of the class markings defined in section 14.1.2. It is assumed that the operator has appropriate knowledge to determine this mapping. [R85]: MUST support classification of frames based on IPv4 DSCP field [R86]: MUST support classification of frames based on IPv6 DSCP field ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 8 14.2.4 PE Egress scheduling
Traffic arriving at a PE from the infrastructure, to be transmitted to a CE device should be done so based on the model used for its classification on ingress.

# 11 14.2.4.1 Unclassified traffic
Where an interface is using unclassified traffic, that is; all traffic is always marked as default by the CE or traffic with no marking available e.g. ethernet without a VLAN header, traffic should be forwarded on a FIFO basis. In this model it must be ensured that the flow of traffic into the PE toward the CE MUST be at a lower rate than the interface attaching the PE to the CE to avoid congestion resulting in latency or loss.

# 18 14.2.4.2 Classified traffic
Where an interface is using classified traffic, that is traffic has a marking scheme available, and traffic is marked using this scheme, traffic should be forwarded to the CE with a queueing scheme and scheduling model that is appropriate to the traffic for that CE. The specific marking and queueing scheme are beyond the scope of this document but MUST be understood by the operator. In this model the PE MUST support the classification and queueing of the CE destined traffic based on the marking on the CE packet or frame. This is understood as “pipe model – after” as defined in IETF RFC 2983, section 5 – 6. [R87]: MUST support classification of encapsulated frames or packets based on 802.1p PCP bit field or IP DSCP field as described in IETF RFC 2983 section 5-6

# 15 Multicast

## 15.1 Multicast use cases
Multicast use cases in an Xhaul transport network come from two categories as described below. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 10 15.1.2 MBMS/5MBS transport
3GPP TS 23.246 MBMS Architecture and Functional Specification (R15) and TR 23.757 Study on architectural enhancements for 5G multicast-broadcast services (5MBS, R17) all support “shared delivery method” with which multicast/broadcast traffic is transported via multicast to RAN nodes (N3/N9), who will then transmit over the air. This means multicast transport is needed to CU-UP. Another “individual delivery method” may also be used – UPFs send individual copies of multicast traffic over PDU sessions to UEs, transparent to RAN nodes. With this method, if UPFs are distributed, then multicast should be used in DNN to the UPFs (N6). Note that, a UPF may be connected to multiple DNNs as the anchored PDU sessions may belong to multiple DNNs.

# 23 Figure 15-1 Mobile multicast use cases
ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

## 15.2 Overlay and underlay multicast
The multi-service nature of 5G transport network is not only that the transport network is also used for fixed line service transport. Even for 5G itself, the same transport network is used for multiple purposes, e.g., N3/N9 transport, N6 transport and Xhaul transport.

# 9 Figure 15-2 VPN infrastructure for mobile
As described in the service capability section, different transports are rendered as different IPVPN/EVPN overlay services over a common transport underlay. When it comes to multicast, it is just an aspect of the IPVPN/EVPN, as further described in section 13.

## 15.3 Recommendation/considerations for multicast solutions
With the background discussion provided in Annex E: Multicast Technologies background, the following multicast solutions are recommended: 1. BGP-MVPN and EVPN-BUM for overlay, with tunnel segmentation if different tunnel types/instances are necessary/desired for different ASes/areas. 2. Currently deployed underlay tunnel solutions can still be used even with Segment Routing (mLDP/RSVP protocol would only be used for multicast not unicast purposes). If end-to-

# 23 FEC or controller signalling need to be used.
3. Controller-signaled multicast can be used if tree calculation and signalling by controllers are desired to satisfy TE constraints, or to remove legacy LDP/RSVP protocols from the network. This includes SR-P2MP an BGP-signalled mLDP tunnels, with the latter offering the best flexibility – easy transition from existing mLDP deployment and flexible ways of tunnel identification via mLDP FEC. 4. BIER can be deployed in (part of) the network when enough routers support BIER (RFC8279 [132], RFC8296 [134]). Depending on the selected solution, some of the following standards may need to be supported. [O1]: BGP Encoding and Procedures for Multicast in MPLS/BGP IP VPNs, RFC6514 [120] ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 [O2]: BGP MPLS-Based Ethernet VPN, RFC7432 [121] [O3]: Update on EVPN BUM Procedures, RFC9572 [166] [O4]: Protocol Independent Multicast - Sparse Mode (PIM-SM) Protocol Specification, RFC 7761 [125] [O5]: The Reverse Path Forwarding (RPF) Vector TLV, RFC 5496 [109] [O6]: Label Distribution Protocol Extensions for Point-to-Multipoint and Multipoint-to-Multipoint Label Switched Paths, RFC6388 [116] [O7]: Using Multipoint LDP When the Backbone Has No Route to the Root, RFC 6512 [118] [O8]: Extensions to Resource Reservation Protocol - Traffic Engineering (RSVP-TE) for Point-to- Multipoint TE Label Switched Paths (LSPs), RFC4875 [91] [O9]: Controller Based BGP Multicast Signaling, draft-ietf-bess-bgp-multicast-controller [160] [O10]: Segment Routing Point-to-Multipoint Policy, draft-ietf-pim-sr-p2mp-policy [173]

# 16 Packet-switched orchestration and telemetry
Packet switched orchestration and telemetry covers how the packet switching transport network is programmed at a device and service level and how telemetry data is retrieved from TNEs. This will be covered in a separate document[23].

# 17 Packet Switched TNE Security
Packet Switched Transport Network Equipment (TNE) plays a vital role in building the transport infrastructure needed to support a 5G infrastructure. As such the packet switched TNEs needs to support a set of security features associated with: 1) The security of the TNEs (both physical security nad user access security) 2) The security of the network control, data and management plane protocols the TNEs run 3) Security functionality required by the TNEs to support security functionality required by the 5G mobile components. This section, which deals with transport specific requirements, in association with O-

# 34 RAN.WG11.Security-Requirements-Specifications [27] provides guidelines and requirements for security features required for an O-RAN compliant packet switched transport infrastructure.

## 17.1 TNE physical security
This section describes the measures to improve the security of the TNE, when the TNE is placed in unsecured, publicly accessible location. For example, such as remote unattended site, or a shared rack with a partner or customer organization ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 30 17.1.2 Auxiliary Port
Many TNEs have as well an auxiliary port, which is intended to be used with a modem to provide dial-in access to a TNE in remote locations. In most cases, the auxiliary port can also be used as a secondary console port, in which case it inherits some console port security concerns. In most cases, the auxiliary port is not used in typical network deployments. Leaving that port enabled creates security concern. [R91]: TNE MUST provide capability to disable auxiliary port [R92]: TNE MUST provide capability to secure auxiliary port in a similar manner as console port, if the auxiliary port is used

# 42 17.1.3 USB Port
Many TNEs today have external user accessible USB ports used for booting the device off a USB stored image or for loading software onto the device’s internal storage. The USB port can be exploited to load malicious device software or used to easily transfer provider information in the case of a device with a compromised management plane. In many cases the device when booting ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 will give the user an option to boot off the USB if a capable USB storage device is connected. Leaving the USB port active creates a security concern. [R93]: TNE MUST provide capability to disable USB port

# 6 17.1.4 Front Panel functions
Many TNEs have front panel with physical buttons, LCD displays or menu options to perform system control and maintenance functions, like bringing a line-card offline or online, restoring the factory default configuration, acknowledging alarms, etc. There may be scenarios, where TNEs are placed in an unsecure location, such as remote unattended site, or a shared rack with a partner or customer organization. Such unsecure locations require enhanced security for front panel functions

# 12 (buttons, LCD displays, menus, etc.).
[R94]: TNE MUST provide capability to disable/enable front panel functions (buttons, menus, LCD displays, etc.)

# 17 17.1.5 TNE software security
Due to the security risks posed by malicious software, the TNE must validate software loaded onto the device before execution. The method for implementation is outside the scope of this document, however the signing of all software images by the TNE vendor’s private key is the common industry practice. Image signing applies to boot software as well as incremental updates applied to a running device. [D43]: TNE SHOULD validate the device boot loader before execution, halting boot on revocation [D44]: TNE SHOULD support signed boot images validated by the device boot loader before execution, halting boot on revocation [D45]: TNE SHOULD validate all software images and updates prior to execution

# 29 17.1.6 Zero Touch Provisioning
Due to the scale of today’s mobile packet switched networks, Zero Touch Provisioning (ZTP) is often used either in the field to deploy new devices or replace existing devices with hardware impairments. While ZTP operations are typically internal to a provider network, it’s important to secure the communication and components used with ZTP. RFC 8572 [144] defines Secure ZTP, a framework for ensuring the ZTP process is secure end to end. The primary points of security for

# 35 ZTP are:
1) ZTP client validation, to ensure the client is trusted by the server before offering ZTP artifacts or configuration information 2) ZTP server validation, to ensure the server is trusted by the client before accepting any ZTP configuration or artifacts 3) Artifact validation, to ensure the ZTP components downloaded from the ZTP server are trusted before being loaded or executed [R95]: TNE MUST provide follow the SZTP framework defined in RFC 8572 [144] if the device supports ZTP ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 [R96]: TNE MUST follow methods and formats defined in RFC 8366 [136] to ensure the validity of the device from the manufacturer using an Ownership Voucher

# 4 17.1.7 PXE boot over management or data ports
Many TNEs today will attempt to boot via PXE as part of their Zero Touch Provisioning process. The ZTP process can run on the management Ethernet interface as well as on standard data interfaces. This process can be a security risk if the physical device location is compromised, allowing an attacker to load malicious software onto the device or compromise its boot integrity protections. [R97]: TNE MUST provide capability to disable ZTP, if ZTP is not in use

## 17.2 TNE user access security
This section describes the measures to improve the security of the TNE, preventing unauthorized user to access the device.

# 17 17.2.1 TACACS+ Authentication
Typically, the default authentication used to authenticate user on the TNE is password authentication using locally stored user data (username, password). In large-scale deployments, like 5G Xhaul deployment, local authentication database on each TNE is very impractical. Therefore, the recommended solution is to use TACACS+ server, which should always be considered the first and principal authentication method. After integrating the TNE into TACACS+ authentication infrastructure, the TACACS+ authentication method should be preferred over password authentication using local authentication database. When user authentication order is set on TNE (with TACACS+ authentication as first, and authentication using local authentication database as second) the user is first authenticated with TACACS+ server. If TACACAS+ server responds (either granting the access or refusing the access), this response is used by the TNE to either allow or deny the user access to the device. However, if TACACS+ server doesn’t respond (is unreachable), local password authentication is used to grant or deny access to the device. Therefore, it is always recommended to have limited number of local users defined on the TNE as a last resort for authentication. These users can be used for authentication purpose in failure cases, when TACACS+ server is not available. TACACS+ provides not only user authentication, i.e., to determine who a user is, but as well authorization, i.e., to grant access rights to certain portions of the TNE, or to certain configuration or operational commands on the TNE. Additionally, TACACS+ performs accounting, which is the action of recording what a user is doing and/or has done. This is commonly known as AAA

# 39 (Authentication, Authorization, Accounting).
[R98]: TNE MUST support TACACS+ for user authentication, in accordance with Section 5 of RFC 8907: “The Terminal Access Controller Access-Control System Plus (TACACS+)

# 44 Protocol” [153]
ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 [R99]: TNE MUST support TACACS+ for user authorization, in accordance with Section 6 of RFC 8907: “The Terminal Access Controller Access-Control System Plus (TACACS+) Protocol” [153] [D46]: TNE SHOULD support TACACS+ for user accounting, in accordance with Section 7 of RFC 8907: “The Terminal Access Controller Access-Control System Plus (TACACS+)

# 7 Protocol” [153]
[R100]: TNE MUST support specification of authentication order, preferring TACACS+ authentication (RFC 8907 [153]) over authentication using local user database

# 12 17.2.2 Login Message
Typically, by default, no message is displayed by the TNE before or after login. It is strongly advised that a system login message is present before the user logs in, as well as another message after user successfully logged in. A strongly worded login banner SHOULD include statements regarding the following:

# 17 ▪ Clear prohibition of unauthorized access.
▪ Clear prohibition of unauthorized use. This warns authorized users against unauthorized use of the system. ▪ Warning that the system may be monitored. Note that the wording might have important ramifications for successful prosecutions. Do not say the system will be monitored. ▪ Statement that there is no expectation of privacy. This statement insures that no legal defense can be mounted claiming that the company should not have monitored an unauthorized user. ▪ Statement that results of monitoring may be provided to the appropriate authorities. ▪ Statement that continued use of the system implies consent to the stated terms and conditions. ▪ Warning to log off immediately if consent is not given. Login banners SHOULD NOT include any of the following information:

# 29 ▪ Information about the device type or software

# 30 ▪ Information about the device location

# 31 ▪ Contact information

# 32 ▪ Administrator information
There could be two level of messages displayed by on TNE’s terminal: one message appearing before the user logs in, and 2nd message after the user logs in. [R101]: TNE MUST support modifiable messages displayed on the user session before and after user login ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 [D47]: Login banners SHOULD NOT include details about the device, location or contact/administrator information

# 5 17.2.3 Security Protocols
In order to provide secure user to access to TNEs for configuration management, security protocols are required that provide Confidentiality, Integrity, Authenticity and replay protection. This section provides details on Secure Shell (SSH, RFC4252, [82]) and Transport Layer Security (TLS, RFC5246, [95] and RFC8446, [140]).

# 10 17.2.3.1 Secure Shell (SSH)
Requirements for O-RAN elements supporting SSH are generally defined in the O-RAN

# 12 ALLIANCE TS: “O-RAN Security Protocols Specification” ([29]).
[D48]: TNEs supporting SSH SHOULD implement the protocol as defined in [29], clause 4.1.

# 16 17.2.3.2 Transport Layer Security (TLS)
Requirements for O-RAN elements supporting TLS are generally defined in the O-RAN

# 18 ALLIANCE TS: “O-RAN Security Protocols Specification” ([29]).
[D49]: TNEs supporting SSH SHOULD implement the protocol as defined in [29], clause 4.2.

# 22 17.2.4 Password requirements
Variety of requirements can be used to strengthen passwords for greater security. TNE should provide a framework allowing to enforce password rules defined by the operator to conform to a particular set of requirements defined in operator’s security policy. These password rules may include such things as length, number of changes, type of characters, numbers, or letters, case, etc. [D50]: TNE SHOULD support definition and enforcement of user password rules like length, number of changes, type of characters, numbers, or letters, case, etc.

# 30 17.2.5 Device lockout
Malicious users sometimes might try to log in to a secure TNE by guessing an authorized user account’s password. Locking out a user account after several failed authentication attempts helps protect the device from malicious users. [D51]: TNE SHOULD have the possibility to lockout the user after a number of failed attempts, and to set the amount of time before the user can attempt to log in to the device again.

## 17.3 Transport Network control plane security

# 38 17.3.1 Control plane DoS/DDoS protection
A denial-of-service (DoS) attack against an TNE is any attempt to disturb legitimate traffic or deny valid users access the TNE by using up all the resources of the TNE. Distributed denial-of-service ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 (DDoS) attacks involve an attack from multiple sources, enabling a much greater amount of traffic to attack the TNE. The attacks typically use network protocol control packets to trigger a large number of exceptions, which are packets handed over from the data plane to the control plane of the TNE. This results in an excessive processing load that disrupts normal network operations. TNE MUST have DDoS protection capability, which enables the TNE to continue functioning while under an attack. It identifies and suppresses malicious control packets while enabling legitimate control traffic to be processed. TNE SHOULD have possibility to customize DDoS protection profiles allowing to optimize DDoS protection of network control traffic in a particular deployment. To protect against DDoS attacks, typically filters and policers for host-bound exception traffic are used. The filters completely block specific types of control traffic (for example, if OSPF is not used in particular deployment, there is no need to send OSPF packets to the TNE’s control plane), while policers specify rate limits for individual types of protocol control packets or for all control packet types for a protocol. Control traffic is dropped when it exceeds policer values. Each violation SHOULD immediately generates a notification to alert operators about a possible attack. The violation SHOULD be counted, the time that the violation starts noted, and the time of the last observed violation noted. [R102]: TNE MUST support protection mechanisms (filters, policer) to protect own control plane from DoS/DDoS attacks [D52]: TNE SHOULD have the possibility to customize DoS/DDoS protection parameters to protect own control plane [D53]: TNE SHOULD have the possibility to raise alarms, when DoS/DDoS attacks are detected

# 29 17.3.2 Control plane protocols protection
Transport control plane uses various protocols to exchange information between TNEs. This information is required to build paths across transport network, exchange label information (in MPLS deployments), exchange service information (L3VPN, L2VPN), monitor the network state (periodic OAM messages), and more (for example, determine the virtual gateway state in multi- homed environment). These protocols could be divided into following groups:

# 35 ▪ IGP (e.g., OSPFv2, OSPFv3, IS-IS)

# 36 ▪ Multicast (e.g., PIM, MSDP)
▪ Protocols to distribute transport labels (e.g. LDP, RSVP)

# 38 ▪ Other protocols (e.g. BFD, VRRP, …)
This document doesn’t mandate any specific protocol to be used. For example, one deployment could use OSPFv2 as the IGP, while other deployment could use IS-IS as the IGP. However, if certain protocol is used, this document mandates minimum security requirements for each protocol that must be fulfilled. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 15 Generic Cryptographic Authentication” [103]

# 17 17.3.2.1 OSPFv2
OSPFv2 has built-in authentication mechanism defined in RFC 2328: “OSPF Version 2” [47]. It defines three authentication types:

# 20 ▪ 0: Null authentication

# 21 ▪ 1: Simple password

# 22 ▪ 2: Cryptographic authentication
Null (no authentication) and simple (clear text) authentication methods are not sufficient in today’s network. [R104]: In deployments using OSPFv2, TNE MUST support cryptographic authentication in accordance with RFC 2328: “OSPF Version 2” [47].

# 28 17.3.2.2 OSPFv3
OSPF version 3 (OSPFv3), unlike OSPF version 2, does not have a built-in authentication method and relies on IPsec to provide this functionality. This authentication functionality for OSPFv3 is defined in RFC 4552: “Authentication/Confidentiality for OSPFv3” [84]. [R105]: In deployments using OSPFv3, TNE MUST support IPsec based authentication for OSPFv3 packets in accordance with RFC 4552: “Authentication/Confidentiality for

# 35 OSPFv3” [84]

# 36 17.3.2.3 BGP
BGP is TCP based protocol, therefore it benefits from RFC 5925: “The TCP Authentication Option” (TCP-AO) [113] to protect against the malicious or accidental insertion of unauthorized BGP data into the network by preventing the establishment of BGP adjacencies with any unauthenticated router. As per [113] TCP-AO specifies the use of stronger Message Authentication Codes (MACs), protects against replays even for long-lived TCP connections, and provides more details on the association of security with TCP connections than TCP MD5 introduced in the BGP specification [79]. Further, TCP-AO uses cryptographic algorithms to compute the MAC that is ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 used to authenticate a segment and its headers. MAC algorithms are specified in a separate RFC 5926: “Cryptographic Algorithms for the TCP Authentication Option (TCP-AO)” [114]. This allows updating the algorithm requirements independently from the protocol. [R106]: TNE MUST support the TCP Authentication Option Authentication to secure BGP sessions in accordance with RFC 5925: “The TCP Authentication Option Authentication” [113] [R107]: TNE MUST support HMAC-SHA-1-96 MAC algorithm for TCP-AO in accordance with RFC 5926: “Cryptographic Algorithms for the TCP Authentication Option (TCP-AO)” [114] [D54]: TNE SHOULD support AES-128-CMAC-96 MAC algorithm for TCP-AO in accordance with RFC 5926: “Cryptographic Algorithms for the TCP Authentication Option (TCP-AO)” [114]

# 16 17.3.2.4 LDP
LDP, similarly to BGP, uses TCP for underlay transport. Therefore, TCP-AO [113] applies to LDP as well. [R108]: In deployments using LDP, TNE MUST support the TCP Authentication Option Authentication to secure LDP sessions in accordance with RFC 5925: “The TCP

# 22 Authentication Option Authentication” [113]

# 24 17.3.2.1 RSVP
IETF defined authentication for RSVP using MD5 one-way hashes in RFC 2747: “RSVP Cryptographic Authentication” [54]. RSVP protocol exchanges can be authenticated to guarantee that only trusted neighbors participate in setting up reservations. RSVP authentication uses an HMAC MD5 message-based digest. This scheme produces a message digest based on a secret authentication key and the message contents. Small error correction to RFC 2547 [54] was provided via RFC 3097 “RSVP Cryptographic Authentication—Updated Message Type Value” [62]. IETF didn’t specified, so far, any more modern authentication method for RSVP. [R109]: In deployments using RSVP, TNE MUST support MD5-based cryptographic authentication to secure RSVP sessions in accordance with RFC 2747: “RSVP

# 37 Cryptographic Authentication” [54]
[R110]: In deployments using RSVP, TNE MUST support amendment to the cryptographic authentication in accordance with RFC 3097 “RSVP Cryptographic Authentication—

# 41 Updated Message Type Value” [62].
17.4 Port-based network access control (IEEE 802.1X-2020)

# 43 WG11 has standardized (O-RAN.WG11.Security-Requirements-Specifications [27]) on IEEE
802.1X-2020 [39] as the port security mechanism in O-RAN compliant network infrastructure. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 Based on [27], from the transport network domain perspective, following aspects of IEEE 802.1X- 2020 [39] SHALL be supported on the TNE deployed in Open Fronthaul [R111]: Port-based network access control for point-to-point LAN segments for both port types: with Layer-2 and Layer-3 encapsulation. Note: VLAN-based access control or access control for non-point-to-point LAN segments is optional. [R112]: IEEE 802.1X-2020 [39] authenticator functionality for each port connection towards the

# 9 O-RAN compliant network elements.
IEEE 802.1X-2020 [39] can be used with various authentication methods to interact with an authentication server. The exact requirements, mandatory and optional methods are specified in O-

# 13 RAN.WG11.Security-Requirements-Specifications [27].
Figure 17-1 outlines the scope of IEEE 802.1X in Open Fronthaul showing all features required on TNE deployed in Open Fronthaul point-to-point LAN segment links for support of TNE-to-O-RU,

# 17 TNE-to-FHG, TNE-to-FHM, TNE-to-O-DU TNE-to-Compute or TNE-to-O-Cloud-Gateway. O- DU can be physical O-DU (O-DU on a bare-metal) directly connected to TNE (1), virtual O-DU
deployed on a compute node directly connected to the TNE (2), or an O-DU deployed in the O- Cloud, which connects to TNE via O-Cloud gateway (3). In use cases (2) and (3) TNE uses IEEE 802.1X [39] authentication not towards O-DU, but towards physical device directly connected to TNE (compute node or O-Cloud gateway). IEEE 802.1X [39] authentication beyond the physical device (compute node or O-Cloud gateway) directly connected to TNE is out-of-scope for this document. Intermediate relay TNEs without Layer-2 or Layer-3 switching/routing functionality enabled are out of scope for IEEE 802.1X-2020 [39] port-based network access control because there are no point- to-point LAN segment links. Furthermore, in packet switched transport network architecture using MPLS or SRv6 underlay, as described in this document (Sections 11 and 12), transport network control plane protocols (e.g., IS-IS, OSPF, BGP, LDP, RSVP) have built-in authentication mechanisms (Section 17.3.2) for authentication and authorization of the Open Fronthaul between

# 31 TNEs.
ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 Figure 17-1: IEEE 802.1X scope in Open Fronthaul (Example) At the high-level, the overall authentication process via EAP-TLS (RFC5216, [94]) can be divided into three phases:

# 8 1. Limited authentication using manufacturer pre-installed certificate
2. Certificate enrollment into operator’s Public Key Infrastructure (PKI)

# 10 3. Full authentication using operator installed certificate
The details of this authentication process are described and standardized in O-

# 13 RAN.WG11.Security-Requirements-Specifications [27], Section 5.2.5.5.2. All three phases SHALL
be supported on the TNE deployed in Open Fronthaul. Note: IEEE 802.1X-2020 [39] support on TNEs deployed in other parts of the network (not Open

# 17 Fronthaul) is optional.

# 18 17.4.1 Certificate time validation
Operation of the EAP-TLS method requires the TNE verify the certificate chain presented by the authenticator PAE, including confirming the certificate’s validity periods. TNEs using IEEE 802.1X port-based access control shall be able to verify the certificate validity periods during the EAP-TLS exchange, e.g., by employing Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS), PTP, or NTP-based ToD (Time of the day) synchronization, or employing a persistent clock previously synchronized to

# 24 GNSS, PTP or NTP.
If the TNE cannot verify the certificates validity, e.g., because there is not available GNSS/PTP/NTP time source, and a persistent clock has failed or was never synchronized to ( ( ( ) ) ) O O O S A R
- R
R
- R
- D
U H U U

# I E

# I E
E E S E E n o n 7 .2 x LLS F H G O p e n F ro n th a u l F H M e C P R I (7 .2 x )

# O - D U
v O -D U v O -D U v O -C lo u d C o m p u t e G W

# O -C lo u d O - C l o u d

# G W

# 0 2 . 1 X S u p p lic a n t

# 0 2 . 1 X A u t h e n t ic a t o r
S S S S S S O p e n F ro n th a u l e C P R I (7 .2 x ) O p e n F ro n th a u l e C P R I (7 .2 x) O p e n F ro n th a u l e C P R I (7 .2 x) O p e n F ro n th a u l e C P R I (7 .2 x) O p e n F ro n th a u l e C P R I (7 .2 x) O p e n F ro n th a u l e C P R I (7 .2 x) A

# R A P
D o I r U A A A A A A t - S b / a D T s e ia N d m E E e A t P e r T b L a S s a e u d t h a u e W n t h G A t ic e n s c o p e u th e n tic a tio S e rv e r a t io n t ic a t io n n ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 GNSS/PTP/NTP, the EAP authentication procedure will fail. The behavior to handle such situation is not specified in this document but is up to the operator’s policy.

### 17.4.2 Certificate management for TNEs providing Open Fronthaul transport

# 4 17.4.2.1 Trust anchor provisioning
Before a TNE can establish a mutual EAP-TLS connection with a signaling peer, e.g., with an IEEE 802.1X supplicant, a TNE needs to be able to trace the peer’s certificate path to a valid trust anchor. To validate against a trust anchor, the TNE shall be able to be provisioned with one or more trust anchor certificates. The TNE shall ensure that all trust anchor certificates are stored in reset persistent memory and protected from external modification. The TNE shall be able to be provisioned with new trust anchors. The TNE shall be able to have an existing trust anchor replaced, e.g., because it has expired. The TNE should support ietf-truststore YANG model ([180]) to enable to recover the list of provisioned trust anchors and associated public keys. The present document defines the use of Certification Management Protocol version 2 (CMPv2, [78]) Initialization Response message to allow the discovered Certification Authority (CA) and Registration Authority (RA) server to provision a trust anchor.
> NOTE: The CA/RA Server identity is configured manually or by the DHCP server using
techniques described in section 17.4.2.2. The Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) server is not considered by the TNE as a trusted source of security bootstrapping data. When shipped, a TNE only trusts information that is signed or encrypted using a certificate chain leading to a pre-loaded trust anchor.

# 27 17.4.2.2 Operator-signed certificate enrolment

# A TNE shall support certificate enrolment using CMPv2 ([78]). Reachability (IP address, Fully
Qualified Domain Name – FQDN) to the CA/RA servers can be configured on TNE during initial TNE provisioning. Alternatively, 3GPP TS 32.509 ([7]), clause 4.2.2, specifies how the TNE supporting certificate enrolment over IPv4 can be configured with the IP address or FQDN of one or more CA/RA servers using DHCP Option 43. The DHCP Options specified in 3GPP TS 32.509 ([7]), do not specify how to signal a CA/RA server identity using DHCP for IPv6 hosts (DHCPv6). Hence, TNE certificate enrolment using CMPv2 over IPv6 shall support the signaling of vendor specific options using DHCPv6 option 17. The format of the DHCPv6 option 17 follows the format of the DHCP for IPv4 hosts (DHCPv4) encoding as specified in clause 4.2.2 of 3GPP TS 32.509 ([7]), with the additional inclusion of an Enterprise Number prior to the Type-Length-Value (TLV) option data. The Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) allocated private enterprise number to be used with DHCPv6 option 17 shall be 53148 (as allocated by IANA to O-RAN Alliance). 3GPP has since published 3GPP TS 28.316 ([3]), which now specifies how to signal a CA/RA server identity with DHCPv6 option 17 messages using the 3GPP registered IANA Enterprise Number (10415). The DHCP Options defined in [7] are a subset of those defined in [3]. An operator and vendor can agree to use the 3GPP registered IANA Enterprise Number in DHCPv6 messages ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 that signal the CA/RA server information instead of the O-RAN registered IANA Enterprise

# A TNE shall report any discovered multi-vendor plug-and-play servers using the o-ran-dhcp YANG
model (reference needed).

# 19 17.4.2.3 CMPv2 based certificate enrolment
This section covers the use case where a TNE is configured with the identity of a CMPv2 capable CA/RA server that the operator uses for certificate enrolment. The TNE shall attempt to enroll in the operator-PKI and may be issued an operator-signed certificate. Clause 9 of 3GPP TS 33.310 ([8]) specifies the use of CMPv2 used by base stations to obtain an operator-signed certificate using a secured communication based on the vendor-signed certificate in the base station and a vendor root certificate pre-installed in the CA/RA server. While the approach has been defined for provisioning certificates on base stations for use in either IPSec or TLS, the same techniques defined for provisioning TLS certificates on base stations can be used for provisioning TLS certificates on TNEs. The handling of certificates, including certificate profiles, shall follow the rules defined in 3GPP TS

# 32 33.310 ([8]) for TLS CA certificates. In addition:
- when a TNE generates a certificate signing request it shall populate the Subject Distinguished Name field
with a string that includes the TNE manufacturer’s name, model and serial number. The exact Subject DN sub-field used is defined in the operator of the CA/RA server’s certificate policy.
> NOTE 1: In future, an O-RAN defined certificate policy may be defined to normalize the sub-
field definition across the O-RAN ecosystem.
> NOTE 2: There are various characters that may not be permissible in the Subject Distinguished
Name Field, e.g., ":" (colon, hexadecimal character 0x34), "." (period, hexadecimal character 0x2E), "_" (underscore, hexadecimal character 0x5F), "#" (hash, hexadecimal 0x23), "£" (pound, hexadecimal 0xa3), "*" (asterisk, hexadecimal 0x2a) or "”" (double quote, hexadecimal 0x22). Manufacturers that include such characters in their name, model and/or serial number should ensure such characters are removed before including in the Subject Distinguished Name Field. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00
- when transferring messages to the CA/RA server, the TNE shall use the "port number of the CA/RA
server" and the “path to the CA/RA directory” as signalled using the DHCP options as specified in clause 4.2.2 of 3GPP TS 32.509 ([7]). If no DHCP based configuration is received by a TNE, the TNE shall use the default port 443 and default directory "/pkix/".
- The CA/RA server shall include the trust anchor for the operator issued certificate and the appropriate
certificate chains in the initialization response message.
- The TNE shall store the operator issued certificate and corresponding certificate chain in reset persistent
memory. When configured to operate with EAP-TLS, a TNE that has a valid certificate issued by an operator PKI shall use this certificate to establish a mutually authenticated EAP-TLS connection for IEEE 802.1X-2020 [39] authentication.

# 12 17.4.2.4 Operation with vendor-signed certificates
All TNEs should be pre-provisioned at a factory with a unique device vendor-signed certificate and its entire certificate chain up to the root. If a TNE fails to enroll in an operator-PKI, as specified in section 17.4.2.2, a TNE configured to operate with TLS may use its vendor-signed certificate initially. The vendor’s public trusted certificate and certificate management services should be accessible within the operator network to allow management of vendor-signed certificates. The extended use of unmanaged vendor-signed certificates, such as outside of enrolment, is not recommended.

# 18 5G Slicing in a packet switched Xhaul network
Network Slicing is end-to-end partitioning of the network resources and network functions so that selected applications/services/connections may run in isolation from each other for a specific business purpose. The overall slicing architecture is shown in Figure 18-1 and covers the orchestration infrastructure and at the physical layer can cover the radio access network, the mobile core, including data centers and virtualization aspects, and the X-haul transport network.

# 29 Figure 18-1: Overall 5G slicing architecture
ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 Although slicing is a key capability of 5G, there is debate as to how it exactly translates into the transport network, which mobile interfaces (Fronthaul, Midhaul, Backhaul, N6) need to be sliced, what form they will take, and the number of slices required at the transport layer. For the purposes of this document the Xhaul transport infrastructure needs the capability to support transport requirements of the: 1. O-RAN and 3GPP control, management, and user plane interfaces.

# 8 2. Wireline consumer, enterprise, and wholesale services.
This includes 5G transport slicing, which from a mobile perspective may include:

# 11 1. Transport separation between Fronthaul, Midhaul, Backhaul interfaces.
2. Transport separation between Control, management, and user plane interfaces of each domain. 3. Flexible mapping of Network Slice Instances (NSIs) to physical or logical transport network instances. Figure 18-2 is an example of how three NSIs could be mapped to logical networks within an Xhaul transport network. In this example there is a: 1. Common logical transport infrastructure supporting the Fronthaul and Midhaul management planes for all three NSIs 2. Common logical transport infrastructure supporting Fronthaul control and user planes for all three NSIs. 3. Common logical transport network supporting Midhaul user plane for all three NSIs. 4. Common logical transport network supporting 3GPP control plane (Midhaul and Backhaul) for all three NSIs. 5. Dedicated logical transport networks for backhaul and N6 networks for each NSI.

# 28 Figure 18-2: Overall 5G slicing architecture
The characteristics of a transport slice are defined in clause 5.2.3 of 3GPP Technical Report 22.891. Although not referenceable, further useful information can be found in various expired personal informational IETF drafts which provide thinking on the characteristics of a sliced transport network. Some of the key points are: ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 6 • Per slice OAM

# 7 • Resource Reservation

# 8 • Slice isolation
o Performance o Operational o Security o Reliability

# 13 • Abstraction
o Virtualization of network functions (where appropriate) o Use of shared compute resources In the transport space, the informal terms, hard and soft slicing has emerged. This refers to the level of isolation between different slices. In both cases they need to support the functions outlined above but the way the slice is built and managed differs considerably.
- Hard slicing: Transport resources are dedicated to a specific “Network Slice Instance” (NSI).
In this case a resource is dedicated to a particular slice and not available to other slices.
- Soft slicing: The transport slice has the characteristics outlined above but a resource is shared
and can be re-used by other slice instances. A packet switched infrastructure, as described in this document, has an extensive toolset, consisting of underlay forwarding solutions, Quality of Service (QoS) and VPNs that allows an operator to scalable partition the transport network to cater for both hard and soft slices use cases. Figure 18-3 outlines some of the packet switched features that can be flexibly combined to create transport slice with different level of resource sharing. Figure 18-3: Packet switched toolset for transport level slicing ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 When considering hard and soft slices it is important to bear in mind they should be thought of as a spectrum of capability, rather than one or the other.

## 18.1 Packet-switched underlay network
The packet-switched underlay network can use MPLS, SRv6 or a combination.

# 6 18.1.1 Underlay transport plane
The transport plane determines how traffic is sent over the packet-switched underlay infrastructure. Four approaches are outlined for constructing the underlay transport plane/planes for a 5G transport infrastructure. In each of the first three cases the level of resource sharing reduces, hence the slice solution becomes harder in nature but may introduces scalability and operational challenges. Fourth mapping approach is based on 5QI/DSCP, and scaling doesn’t depend on the number of slices.

# 12 18.1.2 Single transport plane for all slices
The underlay network relies solely on the routing protocols (IGPs and EGPs) to calculate a single forwarding table based on shortest path routing. The routing protocol sees all links and there is a single forwarding table based on IGP and BGP metrics. All traffic takes the shortest path between two points within the network and utilises ECMP. In the context of slicing, all slices will see the same set of paths between end points within the network. It can be considered the softest slicing solution in terms of the underlay transport plane. However, although the infrastructure is shared between slices, it is highly scalable, widely implemented in 4G and critical enterprise environments, and is capable of delivering high quality

# 21 SLAs.

# 22 18.1.3 Transport plane per 5G service type
Within the underlay network multiple transport planes are built to meet the specific forwarding behaviors associated with the different 5G services types. One or more customers can then use these transport planes. This is achieved using VPNs and traffic steering techniques. The transport planes can utilise different topologies and be optimized based on different criteria. For example, a URLLC service types could be optimised to use only the most reliable links in the network and select the best paths between endpoints based on link delay metrics. In contrast, the eMBB service types could be designed to use cheap, high bandwidth links, based on paths calculated with IGP metrics correlated with link capacity (high link capacity → low IGP metric). And, NB-IoT service types, which don’t require neither low latency communication, nor high capacity, could use a 3rd transport plane with paths established based on TE metrics, favoring links for this type of services. This concept is outlined in Figure 18-4. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 Transport Plane is a group of paths (tunnels) with common optimization strategy (topology constraints, metric type, …) Automatic mapping Prefix: eMBB1 Prefix: eMBB2 Prefix: URLLC2 between service prefix Tunnel types: Flex-Algo, RSVP-TE, SR-TE, SRv6-TE, BGP-CT VPN Label: V1 VPN Label: V2 VPN Label: V6 and underlay transport PNH: PE1 PNH: PE1 PNH: PE1 VRF Import based on RT RT: VPN01 RT: VPN02 RT: VPN06 planebased on Color Mapping based on Color: 1 Color: 1 Color: 3 Extended Community Color VPN O-CU eMBB O-DU VPN01 T P r la a n n e s p X ort Color: 1 VPN O-CU services O-DU VPN02 Color: 1 Color: 1 PE1 NB-IoT O-DU VPN03 Transport Color: 2 Plane Y services O-DU VPN04 Color: 2 Color: 2 VPN O-CU URLLC O-DU VPN05 Transport Color: 3 VPN O-CU services O-DU VPN06 C Pl o a l n or e : 3 Z Color: PE3 VPN O-CU PE2 VPN O-CU PE4 Figure 18-4: Transport Plane per 5G service type – midhaul example To implement such an approach, a mix of shortest path routing and traffic engineering solutions could be used. Traffic engineering options include flex-algo, SR-TE or traditional MPLS TE. As with any traffic engineering approach, consideration needs to be made of scale and state held within the network. Perhaps the simplest approach would be to use the default Flex-algorithm for eMBB and the mMTC services and a delay optimized flexible algorithm for the URLLC services. Backbone links and even nodes could be considered for inclusion or exclusion into the delay optimized flex-algorithm transport planes based on whether the algorithm is enabled on a TNE and

# 11 TE affinities associated with the links.
The mapping between services and transport planes can be simplified with the usage of Color Extended Community defined in RFC 5512 [100]. Each transport plane (each tunnel being part of specific transport plane) is associated with some color value. For example, latency optimized tunnels use color 1 (Transport Plane A), capacity optimized tunnels use color 2 (Transport Plane B), and remaining tunnels use color 3 (Transport Plane C). At the same time, service prefixes are advertised via BGP with appropriate Color Extended Community. URLLC service prefixes use community value 1, eMBB service prefixes community value 2, and NB-IoT service prefixes community 3. On the PE router receiving such service prefixes, selection of appropriate transport plane is automatic based on matching colors advertised via Color Extended Community with the service prefix and the color associated with the transport plane.

# 23 18.1.4 Transport plane per slice customer
This is a variation on the previous scheme. In this case rather than a transport plane per 5G service type, a transport plane for individual customers is defined, as depicted in Figure 18-5. The same techniques outlined above would be used but very careful consideration needs to be given to scale and operational complexity of such an approach. In this case, scalability is a function of the number of customers using the network rather than the 5G service types. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 Transport Plane is a group of paths (tunnels) with common optimization strategy (topology constraints, metric type, …) Automatic mapping Prefix: Cust-1 Prefix: Cust-2 Prefix: Cust-6 between service prefix Tunnel types: Flex-Algo, RSVP-TE, SR-TE, SRv6-TE, BGP-CT VPN Label: V1 VPN Label: V2 VPN Label: V6 and underlay transport PNH: PE1 PNH: PE1 PNH: PE1 VRF Import based on RT RT: VPN01 RT: VPN02 RT: VPN06 planebased on Color Mapping based on Color: 1 Color: 2 Color: 6 Extended Community Color O-DU VPN01 Plane A Color: 1 VPN O-CU O-DU VPN02 C P o la lo n r e : 1 B C C o o lo lo r: r : 1 1 VPN O-CU Color: 2 PE1 O-DU VPN03 C Pl o a lo n r e : 3 C O-DU VPN04 P C l o a lo n r e : 4 D VPN O-CU O-DU VPN05 Plane E VPN O-CU O-DU VPN06 C Pl o a lo n r e : 5 F C C o o lo lo r: r : 6 6 PE2 Color: 6 Color: VPN O-CU VPN O-CU Figure 18-5: Transport Plane per slice customer – midhaul example Mapping per customer and mapping per 5G service type might be used together to address scaling challenges. E.g., as the default approach mapping per 5G service type might be used, and only small number of selected premium customers might have mapping to individual transport planes.

# 7 18.1.5 Transport plane per 5QI group (5QI-aware mapping)
5G slices might carry traffic belonging to multiple 5QI flows. Annex F: Transport network slicing solution for WG1 Slicing (informational) proposes an approach for mapping between 5QI and DSCP, and for grouping multiple 5QI/DSCP flows to limited number of 5QI/DSCP groups, where each group contains 5QI/DSCP flows (from multiple slices) with similar characteristics. This grouping is introduced to allow easy mapping of large number of 5QIs to limited set of transport resources, like for example queues in TNEs. 5QI/DSCP grouping allows as well for intelligent transport plane mapping, as outlined in Figure 18-6. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 Figure 18-6: Transport Plane per 5QI group (5QI-aware mapping) – midhaul example In this example, three 5QI groups (group X: DCSP A; group Y: DSCP B, D; group Z: DSCP C, E, F) are uniquely mapped to three transport planes. With this approach, Color Extended Community is no longer used, as the mapping is based on DSCP (which corresponds to some 5QI). 5QI-aware mapping is most advanced mapping option between the service flows and underlay transport planes.

## 18.2 Quality of Service
Quality of Service is an important component in slicing a transport infrastructure. As with the transport plane, different approaches could be taken depending on the level of isolation required between slices. In considering QoS it is necessary to look at the edge QoS solution and the core QoS solutions. For more info on QoS refer to section 14 and 24.

# 15 18.2.1 Edge QoS
Edge interfaces to packet transport networks are generally the slowest and also where congestion and packet drop most often occurs. Regardless of the QoS structures implemented in the transport core, it is important with slicing to support edge conditioning of traffic on ingress and scheduling on egress to the transport network. This ensures that each slice gets its contracted overall bandwidth and class bandwidth as it enters and leaves the transport network. When slices are presented via VLANs from the mobile clients, the PE router needs a hierarchical QoS capability that can account for the overall contracted bandwidth at the VLAN level and also the overall contracted class bandwidth within the VLAN.

# 25 18.2.2 Core QoS
Within the core network different QoS strategies can be applied that determine the level of bandwidth and queue sharing that occurs between different slices. D D D D D D S S S S S S C C C C C C P P P P P P A B C D E F Mo a p n D p in g b a s e d

# S C P
T ra n s p o rt P la n e X T ra n s p o rt P la n e Y T ra n s p o rt P la n e Z VPN VPN VPN VPN VPN VPN Color: 1 Color: 1 Color: Color: 2 Color: 2 Color: 2 Color: 3 Color: 3 Color: 3

# O -D U

# O -D U
Tcc T roo u a n s p o r t P la n e is a g r o u p o f p a th s m m o n o p tim iz a tio n s tr a te g y (to p n s tr a in ts , m e tr ic ty p e , … ) n n e l ty p e s : F le x -A lg o , R S V P -T E , S R -T

# V P N 0 1
C o lo r: 1 C o lo r: 2 C o lo r: 3

# V P N 0 2
(tu o lo

# E , S
ng R n e ls ) w y v 6 -T E , B ith

# G P -C T

# P E 3
A u b e p a tr a

# D S

# P E
to m a tic m a p tw e e n s lic e s c k e t a n d u n d n s p o r t p la n e

# C P o r P C P v

# O -C

# O -C
P O O p in g e r v ic e e r la y b a s e d a lu e U U

# 21 18.2.2.2 Dedicated queue architecture
This approach uses the same Diffserv QoS architecture, except one or more PHBs is exclusively dedicated to a particular slice or slice type. An example could be a high priority PHB, which is dedicated exclusively to the URLLC slice. At the same time other slices can share the remaining PHBs. Given the small numbers of queues normally provisioned in the core (and available traffic classes in an MPLS environment), this type of solution needs to be used with extreme care, however it is a model used today successfully in production networks to support private line services which run in a dedicated high priority queue, while simultaneously supporting other services using a shared queue architecture.

# 31 18.2.2.3 Dedicated links and queues per slice
This QoS approach achieves hard slicing by either dedicating core links or parts of a core link to a specific slice. This can be achieved by one of the following approaches:
- Using dedicated links per slice in the transport network. This could be done using full
physical Ethernet interfaces or using Ethernet TDM technology, such as flexE, to create dedicated Ethernet channels for different slices. Within these links, class-based queuing would be used to support different traffic types associated with the slice. This approach offers no ability to share unused bandwidth between slices as the links are hard partitioned.
- Using hierarchically scheduled bandwidth on core links. In this case core links would be split
using a shaper to govern the level of bandwidth available to each slice, with class-based queuing within the shaped bandwidth. This approach does offer the ability to share unused bandwidth between slices. In addition to dividing the core bandwidth up, mechanisms are required to guide slice traffic into the links or shaped bandwidth associated with each slice. Slice traffic could be guided into the appropriate links using a TE solution, such as flex-algo or SR-TE or alternatively the core routers ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 could be enhanced to schedule on a slice identifier within the packet. At this time there is discussion on this subject but as yet nothing solid. Like with the previous example, this could support a small number of slices but scaling up would be highly problematic with core provisioning, as well as edge provisioning required when a slice is defined, changed or deleted. It is also a large departure in the way QoS in core of packet networks has been managed in the past.

## 18.3 5G Services and slices
MP-BGP based L2 EVPN and L3VPNs are used to create slice instances. VPNs are very scalable in terms of numbers and endpoints and allow different flexible connectivity models. This means slices could be based on 5G service, customer or a combination of the two. Each slice would have a VPN associated with it. By default, VPNs use the default IGP based forwarding tables to forward traffic. However, VPN traffic can be directed, either by configuration or using automated traffic steering techniques based on BGP “color extended community attribute” to use traffic engineered paths. In this way, a URLLC slice could be directed to use a delay optimised TE solution. Further control of the transport level connectivity within the VPN can be achieved using Route Target filtering. For example, “Route Target” filtering could be used to stop transport level connectivity between UPFs of different customers but allow O-CUs to communicate with any UPF.

# 19 Energy efficiency in the context of Xhaul Packet
Switched Transport Network Equipments Energy efficiency is becoming relevant as sustainability goal in the operation of any kind of network, and in consequence, also for the purpose of Xhaul. The O-RAN Alliance has already setup activities in regards energy efficiency in WG5 and WG10, in relation to the management of the energy consumption at the radio level, enabled by e.g. the possibility of handling “sleep modes” of radio elements. This work is complementary to that by focusing on the transport side, specifically on which relates to packet switches solutions, as part of the scope of WG9. When dealing with Transport Network Equipments (TNEs), different approaches can be considered:

# 31 • Actions taken at architectural level

# 32 • Actions taken at transport network (TN) level
- Actions taken at Transport Network Equipment (TNE) level
The following sections elaborate on each of those approaches.

## 19.1 Architecture level
Here the purpose is the identification of actions that can positively influence the consumption of energy of the Xhaul segment at architectural level. This means the identification of architectural propositions resulting more efficient from an energy consumption perspective. This is much related to the design of the overall Xhaul solution by leveraging on architectural approaches in the direction of reducing the number of elements present in the network. Actions that could lay on this set are for instance: ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00
- Topological optimizations by concentrating the number of TNEs aggregating O-RU’s, O-
DU’s and O-CU’s, while keeping the necessary redundancy levels to satisfy service SLAs.
- On scenarios requiring both packet-switched TNEs and an underlay optical network,
schemes favouring the reduction of elements such as IPoDWDM solutions (i.e., the support of coloured interfaces on routers to avoid transponders).
- When feasible, the support of coloured interfaces directly on O-RU’s, O-DU’s and O-CU’s.
Any of these actions require an initial planning or a migration process. There could be structural dependencies on the suitability of these approaches based on the architecture design of the operators in their actual aggregation networks.

## 19.2 Transport Network (TN) level
Here the purpose is to improve the energy consumption of a network by implementing mechanisms that can dynamically optimize such consumption according to network status and conditions. Some events need to be identified as triggers for such optimization, that could require of smart management and control capabilities to make the network adapt to the observed circumstances, while reducing energy. Actions that could lay on this set are for instance:
- Concentration of traffic flows in some links during low-activity periods, then freeing up
some of the links for reducing the consumption on the corresponding TNEs. This could be done by the transport network in an isolated manner, or as part of a combined radio- transport optimization scenario. Note that additional capabilities are needed at device level for taking advantage of the links becoming empty as consequence of the traffic consolidation.
- Exposure of energy per path or topology based on the consumption of the participating
individual devices, so that upper management systems can build an overall view of the energy consumption map for taking decisions (e.g., function placement, traffic consolidation as before, etc). These actions leverage on the capability of the management system to collect the necessary information, decide on top of the collected data, and enforce control actions on the network all in an automated manner, ensuring prompting reaction to observed and even predicted network status.

## 19.3 Transport Network Equipment (TNE) level
Here the objective is to leverage on intrinsic capabilities of the TNEs for reducing its individual energy consumption under conditions that can be triggered either internally or externally (i.e., from the management systems referred before). Actions that could lay on this set are for instance:
- Presence of native capabilities for supporting “sleep modes” of operation, that is, reducing
the consumption during periods of time according to e.g. traffic patterns.
- Possibility of switching off TNE parts, especially for modular architectures, in situations
where those parts do not participate of the communications. This could be simply because there is no active participation, or because the consolidation of network traffic as described in 19.2. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 These actions leverage on the capabilities of each device, so are dependent of the particular implementations for equipment vendors. There is also a great dependency on the capabilities of the installed base, so brownfield scenarios can be no such efficient as new deployments.

# 6 19.3.1 TNE hardware design
Based on the hardware structure, TNEs can be grouped into two main categories

# 10 ▪ fixed systems

# 11 ▪ modular chassis
Fixed systems (Figure 19-1) are typically 1 RU or 2 RU devices, which do not have replacable network modules. Modular chassis (Figure 19-2), on the other hand, are typically bigger devices, with flexible hardware options (line cards, modules). This allows assembling the TNE with interfaces specifically required for the particular deployment. Fixed systems, while less flexible, when it comes to port type variations, due to their simpler hardware structure, are typically more power efficient compared to modular chassis. Load Chassis Fans PHY Optics, PHY, PFE and Fabric heat R Optic type CPU D dissipation Conversion efficiency PFE D Traffic load PoE Traffic load PFE state PHY PFE Fabric Features Power Supplies Variable efficiency, based on power supply type Misc PHY circuits PFE FPGA Features Port configuration Features Traffic Load PFE state Temperature and Elevation influence all system components

# 21 Figure 19-1: High-level architecture for fixed-systems
ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 32 CPUs and DDR-RAMs in the line cards (LCs).
Fe a tu re s O p tic typ e C o n ve rsio n e fficie n Tra ffic lo a d P o E Fe a tu re s P o rt co n fig u ra tio n Fe a tu re s Tra ffic Lo a d

# P FE sta te
cy L R C E c M isc

# C P
irc u its

# P F E PH Y

# P F E PH Y
Te m p e ra tu re a n d E in flu e n ce a ll syste m R

# U DD

# L C

# C P U
le va tio n co m p o n e n ts RDD F Lo a PHY PHY PHY PHY IB d F aA F aA bS bS r ic IC r ic IC

# P S
F M a n s O p tics, P H Y, P FE a n d h e a t d issip a tio n Tra ffic lo a d P F E sta te V a ria b le e fficie n cy, b p o w e r su p p ly typ e Fa b ric a se d o n ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 ▪ Fabric. Dedicated chipset(s) to provide internal connectivity between PFEs/NPUs in multi PFE/NPU systems. In modular systems the fabric chipsets can be distributed across multiple fabric interface boards (FIBs). Energy consumption depends mainly on the traffic load. ▪ Miscellaneous chipsets. Some additional functions (for example, PTP handling, IPsec or MACsec encryption) might be implemented via dedicated Application-Specific Integrated Circuits (ASICs) or Field Programmable Gateway Arrays (FPGAs). These circuits consume energy to fulfill their functions. ▪ Fans. Fans are used to improve heat dissipation from the device. Fans energy consumption increases with the temperature. Also, some fixed systems are constructed as fanless devices, with heat dissipation realized via other means (like extensive use of dedicated heatsinks, or reusing itself the metal shelf of the device as a heatsinks). Fanless device design might be applicable to smaller TNEs only, like for example small cell site routers. ▪ Power Supply Unit (PSU). Energy consumed by PSU is related to the efficiency of PSU. PSU with efficiency 90% consumes less energy (10% from total energy drawn) than PSU with efficiency 85% (15% from total energy drawn). In modular chassis, the components are placed in different field replaceable modules, for example: ▪ Routing Engine (RE). Hosts main CPU and main DDR-RAM ▪ Line Card (LC). Hosts optical modules, PHY, PFE and LC dedicated CPU + DDR-RAM. ▪ Fabric Interface Board (FIB). Hosts Fabric ASICs and PHY, to interconnect PFEs spread across multiple LCs

# 23 ▪ Fan trays

# 24 ▪ Power Supply Module (PSM)
Figure 19-3 and Figure 19-4 provides an example of energy consumption distribution across various components for both fixed systems and modular chassis. Components that typically consumes most energy are PFEs, or FPCs hosting PFEs. Other significant energy consumers are optics, fabric, and – for modular chassis – fans. Therefore, it is most important to energy optimize these components of a TNE. Fabric Figure 19-3: Example of energy consumption distribution – fixed system ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 Figure 19-4: Example of energy consumption distribution – modular chassis

# 4 19.3.2 SerDes energy optimization
SerDes is a functional block (single chipset or group of chipsets) that Serializes and Deserializes digital data used between electrical side of optics inserted in the port socket and a PFE. In some TNE designs PHY might be placed between port and PFE to aggregate multiple lower speed SerDes lines to higher speed SerDes line (Figure 19-5).

# 11 Figure 19-5: SerDes energy optimization
To optimize energy usage TNE should support following features: [D55]: TNE SHOULD automatically shut down SerDes associated with empty port (optical cage not populated with any pluggable optical module). This process SHOULD not impact neighboring ports → (1) [D56]: TNE SHOULD automatically restart SerDes associated with port to which a pluggable optical module has been inserted. This process SHOULD not impact neighboring ports →

# 21 (1)
[D57]: TNE SHOULD have capability to administratively declare a port as “unused”. SerDes associated with “unused” port (regardless, if populated with pluggable optical module or not) SS eh rD e u td so w n

# P G 0
Port0 Em p ty P

# P G 1
Port1 EG004 F E C / 3

# P G 2
Port2 EG001

# 0 % IM IX

# P G 3
Port3 unused EG004 SS eh rD e u td so w L n C

# 4 0 C /
S e rD e s S h u td o S e rD e s S h u td o w L in w n n e R a t e IM Port4 Em p ty IX

# P F E

# P G

# P H
Port5 EG001 Y Port6 EG001 Port7 unused EG001 SS S e rD e s S h u td o w e rD e s h u td o w n n ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 SHOULD be automatically shut down. Further, power to pluggable optical module inserted into “unused” port SHOULD be switched off, which also results in TX laser off. This process SHOULD not impact neighboring ports → (2) [D58]: TNE SHOULD have capability to administratively clear “unused” port state. If port with cleared “unused” state is populated with optical module, SerDes associated with such port SHOULD be automatically restarted and power to pluggable optical module inserted into such port SHOULD be enabled, which also results in TX laser on. This process SHOULD not impact neighboring ports → (2) [D59]: Higher speed SerDes aggregated by PHY, where all contributing lower speed SerDes are shutdown SHOULD be shut down as well. If at least one contributing lower speed SerDes restarts, higher speed aggregated SerDes SHOULD restart as well → (3)

# 15 19.3.3 PHY energy optimization
After SerDes, next component in forwarding path is PHY. PHY should be automatically shut down, when all connected SerDes lines are shut down (Figure 19-6).

# 20 Figure 19-6: PHY energy optimization
[D60]: PHY with all connected SerDes in shutdown state SHOULD automatically shut down. When some of connected SerDes restarts (for example, due to pluggable optical module insertion into a “used” port cage, or due to administrative change of port state from “unused” to “used” for port with pluggable optical module already inserted) PHY SHOULD automatically restart. This process SHOULD not impact neighboring ports.

# 28 19.3.4 PFE energy optimization
As visible in Figure 19-3 and Figure 19-4 the major energy consumer in a TNE is the packet forwarding engine (PFE).

# 32 PFE energy can be optimized via different approaches:
P o E m rt4 p ty P o E m

# P F
P P rt5 p ty E G H Y P o E m rt6 p ty P o rt7 u n u se d EG001 PS P WS

# F E S e rD e s
h u td o w n

# H Y in “ s h u td

# A N S e rD e s
h u td o w n o w n ” m o d e ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00
- Flexible, fully programmable versus fixed pipeline PFE chipsets
PFE chipsets can be divided into two main categories: flexible, fully programmable (1), and fixed pipeline, with limited programmability (2). Fixed pipeline chipsets consume less energy (Figure 19-7), as their design is simpler – they are designed to perform pre- determined functions (for example, to do the MPLS switching) with limited flexibility to program other functions (for example, perform SRv6 encapsulation/decapsulation, if the chipset was not designed from day one to perform this function). Therefore, to support particular throughput, they require less transistors comparing to flexible, fully programmable chipsets. This results in lower energy consumption. However, the tradeoff is feature flexibility offered by flexible, fully programmable PFE chipsets.

# 15 Figure 19-7: PFE chipset evolution
[D61]: To optimize PFE energy consumption, it is recommended TNE is built using fixed pipeline PFE chipsets.

# 20 • PFE chipset generations
Newer generation of chipsets, produced with 16 nm, or 7 nm (and emerging 5 nm) technologies consume significantly less energy (Figure 19-7) compared to older generation chipsets (28nm – 65nm). [D62]: To optimize PFE energy consumption, it is recommended TNE is build using new generation (<16 nm) PFE chipsets.

# 30 • Traffic Load
Traffic load might impact TNE energy consumption by about 10%-20% (TNE with minimal traffic load, versus TNE with maximal traffic load). Thus, minimizing traffic load might bring some energy savings. Some exemplary techniques to minimize traffic load are:
- Use efficient transport encapsulation with small overhead (for example, MPLS
overhead is typically smaller than SRv6 overhead) st 1 G en F le x nd 2 G ib le en (fu rd 3 lly p G en r o g ra m th 4 m G en a b le ) c th 5 G en h ip s e t a r c h th 6 ite G c en t u r e st 1 G en nd 2 G en F ix e d p ip rd 3 G en e lin e c h ip s th 4 G en e t a r c h ite c t u th 5 r e G en ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00
- Compress data before transmission, where possible and applicable (for example, photos
and videos might be resized and compressed by the application server, before they are sent to the user equipment). However, this might increase energy consumption by servers hosting applications.
- Cache frequently used data close to end-users (for example, web cache)
- Use optimized multicast replication for multicast streams (for example, IPTV
distribution via optimized multicast tree instead of ingress replication)

# 9 • PFE power off
Both, administrative and automatic PFE power off bring energy savings. [D63]: TNE SHOULD have capability to administratively switch off the power of a PFE (Figure 19-8), which also automatically switches off the power of associated PHY, SerDes and pluggable optical modules. This process SHOULD not impact other

# 16 PFEs.

# 19 Figure 19-8: PFE administrative power off
[D64]: TNE SHOULD automatically switch off the power of a PFE, if all associates SerDes are in shutdown state (Error! Reference source not found.). When some of c onnected SerDes restarts (for example, due to pluggable optical module insertion into a “used” port cage, or due to administrative change of port state from “unused” to “used” for port with pluggable optical module already inserted) PFE SHOULD automatically restart. This process SHOULD not impact other PFEs.

# L C
P P H H Y Y p Pa d o w P Fme F Ein r o E ff C

# L CP
U RDD ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 PFE0 PFE1 PFE2 PFE3 PFE1 PFE3 automatic automatic poweroff poweroff … … … … Port0 Port0 Port1 Port3 Port0 Port1 Port3 Port0 Port1 Port3 Port1 Port3 unused unused

# 3 Figure 19-9: PFE automatic power off

# 4 19.3.5 Line card energy optimization
Even when all PFEs are switched off (either automatically, or by administrative action) line card still consumes some energy. This energy is consumed by ASICs not associated with any particular

# 7 PFE, like for example line card CPU.
[D65]: TNE SHOULD have capability to administratively switch off the power of a line card, which also automatically switches off the power of associated PFE, PHY, SerDes and pluggable optical modules. This process SHOULD not impact other line cards. [D66]: TNE SHOULD automatically switch off the power of a line card, if all associates PFEs are in shutdown state. When some of connected PFEs restarts (for example, due to pluggable optical module insertion into a “used” port cage, or due to administrative change of port state from “unused” to “used” for port with pluggable optical module already inserted) line card SHOULD automatically restart. This process SHOULD not impact other line cards.

# 20 19.3.6 Switching fabric energy optimization
Switching fabric complex contains fabric ASICs, and SerDes complexes interconnecting fabric ASICs with PFEs (Figure 19-2). Therefore, in fabric complex, energy could be saved by switching off fabric ASICs or fabric SerDes complexes. There are couple of possible options for switch fabric design, when it comes to fabric redundancy in modular chassis. One of the common switching fabric redundancy designs is N+1 redundancy, where ‘N’ fabric interface boards provide capacity sufficient to interconnect all PFEs, and there is +1 fabric interface board as spare. For example, if the node has 8 PFEs, each PFE with 500 Gbps, the required switching fabric capacity is 4 Tbps. If the capacity of single fabric ASICs is 500 Gbps, and single fabric interface board hosts two fabric ASIC (1 Tbps per FIB), equipping the node with 5 fabric interface boards (5 Tbps in total) would provide N+1 switching fabric redundancy. In case of single fabric interface board failure, the switching fabric is still able to provide full required capacity of 4 Tbps. However, when two fabric interface boards fail, the maximum fabric capacity is reduced to 3 Tbps only. In order to provide protection for two fabric interface boards failures, N+2 (two “spare” fabric interface boards) redundancy mode would be required. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 [D67]: TNE SHOULD automatically shut down SerDes between fabric and PFE, if corresponding LC slot is empty (line card not inserted), or LC/PFE is powered off (Figure 19-10). This process SHOULD not impact other LCs or PFEs.

# 7 Figure 19-10: Fabric SerDes energy optimization
Often the TNE doesn’t operate at its full possible capacity. Some line cards or PFEs could be switched off. Some ports might be set to unused state, or not all ports might be populated with pluggable optical module. Therefore, very often the full switching fabric capacity is not required. In such situation, to maintain N+1 switching fabric redundancy, it is sufficient to take into consideration capacity requirements for PFE with highest capacity requirement (Figure 19-11).

# 16 Figure 19-11: Fabric interface board energy optimization
In the example in Figure 19-11 each PFE is connected to 5 FIBs (10 fabric ASICs – for readability, only connections between PFEs and fabric ASICs in FIB-0 are shown in the figure). Connections to PHY PHY PHY PHY

# P FE

# P FE

# P FE

# P FE
P o w e o ff r S S lo lo t 2 t 3 E E L L m m C C -0 -1 p ty p ty F aA F aA b ric

# S IC
b ric

# S IC

# F IB
Port unused switchedoff stand-by active Max 62.5 Gbps active Max 100Gbps PFE0 active PFE0 100Gbps 500Gbps 500Gbps Port unused TOP PFE: 300G Max Max 200Gbps 50 P 0 F G E b 1 ps F A a S b I r C ic 50 P 0 F G E1 bps 300Gbps LC-0 LC-2 TOP PFE: 300G

# 500 Gbps
Max Max 300Gbps 50 P 0 F G E0 bps 50 P 0 F G E0 bps 0Gbps Fabric

# 0 M Gb ax ps 50 P 0 F G E1 bps ASIC FIB-4 50 P 0 F G E1 bps 00 M G a b x ps
LC-1 500Gbps FIB F - I 2 B-3 LC-3 FIB-1 PFE switched-off FIB-0 LCswitched-off ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 8 fabric ASICs provide full required capacity. Therefore, capacity of connection between single PFE and single fabric ASIC is 65.2 Gbps (62.5 Gbps x 8 = 500 Gbps), or 125 Gbps between single PFE and single FIB. If in given deployment maximum required PFE capacity is 300 Gbps, it is sufficient to use 3 active FIBs (3 x 125 Gbps = 375 Gbps) + one additional FIB as spare. [D68]: TNE SHOULD have capability to administratively switch off the FIB (Figure 19-11), which also automatically switches off the power of associated SerDes modules. This process SHOULD not impact any LCs or PFEs. [D69]: TNE SHOULD automatically shut down FIB or multiple FIBs in such a way that remaining FIBs provide N+1 switching fabric redundancy even for the highest capacity PFE (Figure 19-11). When the capacity of highest capacity PFE increases (for example, due to pluggable optical module insertion into a “used” port cage, or due to administrative change of port state from “unused” to “used” for port with pluggable optical module already inserted) TNE SHOULD automatically re-evaluate, if, in order to provide N+1 switching fabric redundancy, additional FIB must be powered on and eventually automatically power on additional FIB. This process

# 18 SHOULD not impact any LCs or PFEs.

# 20 Supporting mobile scenarios on a packet switched Xhaul
network What is clear in discussions with operators is that although section 8 outlines individual use cases, operator’s expect multiple use cases to be present in their transport network based on the need to support 4G and 5G, maturity and timelines of the O-RAN specifications, vendor product readiness, use cases and latency requirements. Figure 20-1, an adapted operator’s view, illustrates this well with multiple 4G/5G architectures present along with Enterprise and consumer services. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 Figure 20-1: An adapted O-RAN operator’s view of mobile component placement In order to make this document generic to operators, simplification is required. For this reason, the following physical topology and underlay transport solution is used as a baseline. Operators can then use the information and customize to their specific requirements.

## 20.1 Physical network
Figure 20-2 illustrates physical network layout for a metro network and its connectivity to the transport core. It consists of: 1. A collection of metro networks surrounding a transport core. Each metro network consists of a number of access networks that are consolidated by an aggregation network towards to the transport core. 2. All sites which interface to customer or mobile components supports Provider Edge functionality for L2 and L3 overlay services. 3. Data centers or location for positioning mobile components potentially exist at the hub sites, edge sites and in centralised locations. 4. Connectivity between routers is provided by line-rate point-to-point Ethernet connections derived from dark fibre or WDM. 5. Access networks could be based on either small rings, star, chained or hub and spoke topologies. To simplify the following discussion, it is assumed each cell site has a CSR connected via a single high-capacity dark fibre to the HSR in a star topology. Refer to section 10 for more details on potential fiber access topologies. 6. The Aggregation network originates from the HSR and is based on either a ring or a hub and spoke topology. For some scenarios the aggregation network may be split into a pre- aggregation and aggregation component. In this case, there is an intermediate layer of packet switches and an additional layer of statistical multiplexing. (See greyed out router / switch in

# 26 Figure 20-2)
ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 3 Figure 20-2: An example physical architecture

## 20.2 Logical underlay architecture
The logical underlay is illustrated in Figure 20-3 and consists of QoS enabled infrastructure that either uses an IP/MPLS or an SRv6 underlay data and control plane. It provides any-to-any connectivity between TNEs in the network, regardless of whether they reside in the same metro network, a different metro network or the transport core and supports both shortest path routing and traffic engineering. The underlay data planes, control plane and scaling mechanisms to enable this for IP/MPLS and SRv6 are different and discussed in their respective chapters. Both solutions have the capabilities to support best effort and traffic engineered forwarding and the capability to create discrete constrained based topologies using either traditional traffic engineering or flexible algorithm which can be optimized on criteria such as shortest path, delay and bandwidth. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 3 Figure 20-3: An example logical architecture

# 4 20.2.1 Underlay Quality of Service (QoS)
Refer to section 14 for fuller discussion on QoS. Underlay QoS refers to the scheduling used on the core or backbone links. All backbone links are enabled with a combination of priority and class- based queueing. Assignment of traffic to different queues within the core is based on marking within the packet header. In an MPLS backbone this is based on the EXP bits or traffic class field, a three-bit field, giving a maximum number of core behaviours of eight. In an IPv6 backbone this is based on the DSCP bits, a six-bit field, giving a maximum number of 64 markings and potential behaviours.

# 15 Figure 20-4: Example Xhaul queue structure
ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

## 20.3 Service architecture
For mobile services it is proposed to use BGP based VPNs to overlay service functionality onto the underlay transport network as described in section 13.
> NOTE: There is no reason this same transport infrastructure cannot support other VPN solutions
such as VXLAN or SD-WAN type solutions. All PEs and DCIs (which are also PEs) should be capable of supporting point to point Ethernet services using EVPN VPWS services and L3 BGP VPN services described in section 13. With these two basic service overlays all the scenarios outlined in section 8 can be accommodated.

# 11 20.3.1 Automated VPN Traffic Steering
If required traffic from different VPNs or specific flows within an VPN can be steered into different underlay transport planes based on coloring the MP-BGP VPN routes associated with L2 and L3VPNs. This capability is described in Annex C: MP-BGP based L3VPNs .

## 20.4 Mobile services
There are many ways Fronthaul, Midhaul and Backhaul services could be provisioned onto the transport network. Below are a set of assumptions and mechanisms used to illustrate how a packet switched architecture can accommodate the scenarios outlined. These can easily be adapted based on operator’s individual requirements.

# 20 20.4.1 Open Fronthaul
Figure 20-5 illustrates a physical and logical design that supports Open Fronthaul traffic. It is fairly simple in nature, however, can easily be adapted based on operator designs and requirements. It uses the underlay building blocks discussed earlier chapters.

# 26 Figure 20-5: Fronthaul physical and logical topology
ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 6 Ethernet / VLAN / IP encapsulation.
3. 7.2x C/U planes uses an Ethernet service across the transport network to connect O-RUs to O-DUs. This is via an Ethernet VPWS service using EVPN in the transport network. 4. If the 7.2x C/U planes traffic used an Ethernet / VLAN / IP encapsulation, then the transport network could use a L3 VPN service to transport the traffic between the O-RU and the O- DU, but this is not considered in the following sections. 5. 7.2x M-plane connects to the transport network via a VLAN on a physical Ethernet. 6. 7.2x M-plane uses an Ethernet / VLAN / IP encapsulation. 7. 7.2x M-plane is operating in hybrid mode and uses an L3 VPN service across the transport network to connect O-RUs, O-DUs and O-RAN NMS together. This is via an overlay MP-

# 21 BGP based L3VPN.
8. For the following discussion, the 7.2x C/U planes and M plane share a single physical Ethernet interface on the O-RU towards the CSR with the C/U plane and M-Plane running in different VLANs. 9. Each O-RU has its own dedicated Ethernet port on the CSR. I.E There is no lower level aggregation of statistical multiplexing component between an O-RU and the CSR. 10. O-RU and O-DU set appropriate QoS markings for C/U and M-plane traffic that the transport network can trust. In other words, the TNE does not need to classify different components of Fronthaul for transport.

# 34 20.4.1.2 Open Fronthaul physical design

# 35 1. 3 O-RUs per cell site.
2. In the above example, each O-RU is connected via a dedicated Ethernet interface to a co- located CSR. This single Ethernet supports both the C/U planes and the M-plane presented through two VLANs. The required capacity of the Ethernet link between the O-RU and the CSR is primarily dependent on the O-RU’s radio capabilities. The requirements document [20] provides some bandwidth examples for Open Fronthaul bandwidth. The expectation is that the C/U plane traffic will be significantly larger than the M-Plane traffic, therefore these Ethernet interfaces should be provisioned to deal with the peak 7.2x C/U-plane traffic of an O-RU. It should be noted that unlike CPRI, the 7.2x C/U plane traffic loads are dependent on user activity, so peak loading will only occur when the O-RU is running at full theoretical capacity. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 3. In the above example, each CSR is connected using a single Ethernet link across dark fibre to the HSR. Other underlay transport technologies and topologies are available, such as redundant hub and spoke, chain or ring topologies in the access network. Regardless of the WAN technology and topology employed, careful consideration needs to be given the latency and jitter requirements of C/U plane traffic between the O-RU and the O-DU. Transport considerations includes fibre distances between the O-RU and the O-DU, the number of routers/switches traversed, link speeds and switching times of the intermediate transport network equipment. (see section 10.1.1.2 for more details). As O-RAN 7.2x traffic loads are dependent on user activity and in the example there are multiple O-RUs in the cell site, the link capacity between the CSR and HSR does not need to be provisioned at the theoretical sum of the O-RU’s peak rates because a statistical gain can be realised. The bandwidth provisioning should be based on usage and the real achievable peak rates associated with the O-RUs. The real achievable peak rates are dependent on factors such as number and proximity of radios to each other and environmental factors. Precise provisioning rules for 5G Fronthaul is subject to further investigation.

# 17 20.4.1.3 QoS
1. The QoS scheme outlined in section 20.2.1, Figure 20-4 will be applied across the transport network and is capable of supporting Fronthaul, Midhaul and Backhaul traffic running on the same link. If an SRv6 underlay is to be used, then at a minimum the same queue structure supported by appropriate operator selected DSCP marking should be used. 2. O-RU and O-DU set appropriate QoS markings for C/U and M-plane traffic that transport network can trust. 3. In the above example, the C/U and M-plane traffic share the same physical interface, separated using VLANs between the O-RU and CSR and between HSR and O-DU. In this situation the mobile components (O-RUs and O-DUs) will need to support: o An internal scheduling mechanism to prioritise C/U plane traffic over M-Plane traffic onto the Ethernet interface o Depending on O-RU→ CSR and HSR→ O-DU link speeds, the O-RU, O-DU, CSR and HSR may need to support TSN frame pre-emption to control serialization delay. (refer to section 10.1.1.2.1 for more details). Alternatively, if the O-RU or CSR do not support TSN frame pre-emption or the O-DU or HSR do not support TSN frame pre-emption, then separate physical interfaces could be used to separate the C/U plane and M-plane traffic. 5. C/U and M-plane traffic from all O-RUs in the cell site share the same transport link between the CSR and the HSR. In most scenarios where a CSR supports multiple radios running fronthaul, this link will be 25Gbps or above and therefore does not really benefit from TSN frame pre-emption. However, in some instances, the link between the CSR and HSR may be lower speed and would benefit from TSN frame pre-emption. (see section

# 40 10.1.1.2.1 for more details)
6. C/U plane traffic must be prioritized over M-plane traffic on the WAN links. CSR and HSR must be provisioned at both the link level and within the link level queuing infrastructure in a manner such that C/U plane traffic is not dropped or experiences queuing delay in either the CSR or HSR (or any additional Transport Network Equipment in the path between the O-RU and the O-DU). M-plane traffic can experience a level of delay, so be configured to use a lower priority queue or a queuing scheme such as Weighted Round Robin that reserves a small amount of bandwidth for management traffic (see section 14 for an example) ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 16 20.4.2 Non O-RAN Fronthaul
The assumptions, design approach and considerations discussed for the C/U planes in Open

# 18 Fronthaul are used for Non O-RAN Fronthaul.

# 19 20.4.3 Midhaul and Backhaul
Figure 20-6 illustrates a physical and logical design that could be employed to support Midhaul and Backhaul traffic. It is a simple example but can easily be adapted based on operator designs and requirements. It uses the underlay building blocks discussed earlier in the chapter.

# 25 Figure 20-6: Midhaul and Backhaul logical topology
ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 The following design assumptions have been made about the Midhaul / Backhaul components and how traffic is presented and moved across the transport network.

# 3 20.4.3.1 Assumptions
1. Midhaul and Backhaul traffic share the same L3 VPNs. 2. There are dedicated and separate L3 VPNs for control plane traffic (N1, N2) and user plane traffic (N3 and N9). 3. If legacy Backhaul is required, it shares the same L3 VPN transport services used by the 5G EMBB Midhaul and Backhaul user and control plane infrastructure. 4. If there are multiple Midhaul and Backhaul transport slices, they could run in their own independent L3 VPNs (see Annex F: Transport network slicing solution for WG1 Slicing

# 11 (informational))
5. Midhaul and Backhaul mobile components will either use a discrete independent VLAN or a dedicated physical Ethernet to separate control and user plane traffic. For the following discussion it is assumed they are presented via VLANs on a single Ethernet interface. 6. Midhaul and Backhaul mobile components which require connectivity to different transport slices will either use a discrete VLAN or a dedicated physical interfaces per slice. For the following discussion it is assumed they will be presented via VLANs. 7. The transport and RAN teams have collaborated on Midhaul / Backhaul QoS marking and packets emerging from O-DUs, O-CUs and UPFs have a DSCP marking appropriate to their 5G forwarding requirements, and the TNEs can trust these markings. 8. N6 networks associated with different customers, applications or use cases will use L3

# 22 VPNs.
Note: Other service designs could be considered, for example a design where only Ethernet services are used from the cell site and the hub sites and L3 VPN services are built at the hub sites. The primary reason for the choice outlined above is to make the service orchestration as simple as possible, so services only need to be configured where the mobile clients connect to the transport network and no intermediate stitching points within the transport network are needed.

# 29 20.4.3.2 Midhaul and Backhaul physical topology
1. O-DUs connect, via Ethernet interface/interfaces, to a co-located HSR or CSR. The Ethernet interface/interfaces support Midhaul control and user plane traffic via two discrete VLANs. 2. O-CUs connect, via Ethernet interfaces to the transport network. The O-CU Ethernet interface/interfaces support Midhaul and Backhaul control and user plane traffic via two discrete VLANs. 3. The UPFs connect, via Ethernet interfaces to the transport network. The UPF connects to the common control and user plane Midhaul/Backhaul VPNs. 4. The location of the O-CUs and UPFs is service dependent and the choice of the operator. Additionally, these components may be virtualized or containerized and reside in a data center. In these scenarios, orchestration techniques maybe be required to connect the virtualized O-DU, O-CU and UPF components in the data centers to the correct WAN

# 41 L3VPNs.
5. 5G Core components connect via Ethernet interfaces to the transport network in their respective locations. These components may be virtualized or containerized and reside in a data center. In these scenarios, orchestration techniques are required to connect the 5G control plane entities in the data centers to the Midhaul and Backhaul control plane WAN

# 46 L3VPNs.
ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 6. O-CU can reside in the same location as the O-DUs it controls, therefore Midhaul traffic never leaves the site and is switched between the two entities by the either the CSR or HSR. Alternatively, the O-CU can reside in a different location to the O-DUs it controls. In this case the Midhaul traffic traverses the WAN. 7. HSRs provides the boundary between the access and aggregation networks. Connectivity to the aggregation network will typically use high-capacity Ethernet interfaces or bundles of high capacity Ethernet interface. The topology of the aggregation network is normally resilient, but topologies vary based on operator choices and constraints, with hub and spoke and rings very common. 8. Midhaul and Backhaul user plane traffic levels are dependent on UE usage, the characteristics of the radio and the number the proximity of radios to each other. The O-RAN Transport Requirements document [20] outlines some of the provisioning rules widely used in planning 4G Backhaul networks. Although not directly applicable to the 5G, they provide a good starting point in terms. Longer term network capacity planning should be done based on monitoring and modelling the live network.

# 16 20.4.3.3 QoS
1. O-CU and UPFs mark the packets they produce based on the behaviour required for the mobile data the carry. 2. Most Midhaul and Backhaul traffic is far more tolerant to delay, and jitter compared with Fronthaul traffic. The exception could be some URLLC based use-cases. However, for most 5G use-cases fibre propagation delay, number of hops, transport equipment switching times and serialization delays are not of a huge issue when designing Midhaul and Backhaul networks. 3. In some scenarios, particularly when some forms of slicing are considered then edge QoS in the form of ingress and egress H-QoS will be required.

# 26 20.4.3.4 Services
1. Two L3 VPNs are created; the first is Midhaul/Backhaul control plane traffic and the second is Midhaul/Backhaul user plane traffic. O-DUs, O-CUs, UPFs connects to both L3VPNs. The 5GC connect only to the control plane L3VPN. If required “Route Target” filtering could be used to restrict transport level connectivity between mobile entities.

## 20.5 Scenario 1 and 5
Both scenario 1 and 5 represent a full two split C-RAN architecture. The main difference is the location and proximity of the O-DUs and the O-CUs to each other. In scenario 1 they are contained in a single hub site location, in scenario 5 they are split across different locations. At the high level the basic service layout for scenario 1 and 5 is shown in Figure 20-7 and Figure 20-8 with a more detailed layout shown in Figure 20-9. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 3 Figure 20-7: Scenario 1 layout

# 7 Figure 20-8: Scenario 5 layout
ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 Figure 20-9: L2 / L3 service layout for scenario 1 and 5

## 20.6 Scenario 2
Scenario 2 represent a full two split C-RAN architecture with the O-RU and O-DU at the cell site and the O-CU at the hub site and is shown in Figure 20-10. Figure 20-10: L2 / L3 service layout for scenario 2

# 12 Notes on the design:
1. Fronthaul traffic is restricted to the cell site with the CSR providing a local L2 x-connect function to get C/U plane traffic between the O-RUs and the O-DU. 2. The Midhaul/Backhaul control and user plane L3 VPNs need to be extended to the cell site router. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 3. In above diagram the O-DU has two physical interfaces with one supporting Fronthaul traffic and the other supporting, via VLANs, Midhaul and Backhaul control plane, user plane and Open Fronthaul M-plane traffic. In this instance TSN frame pre-emption is not really a consideration. If the Midhaul, Backhaul and Fronthaul traffic shared the same physical interface on the O-DU and the CSR, then depending on interface speeds, TSN frame pre-emption may need to run between the O-DU and the CSR.

## 20.7 Scenario 3 5G C-RAN with legacy D-RAN

# 9 20.7.1 Scenario 3a
Scenario 3a is a full two split C-RAN architecture with the O-RU at the cell site and O-DU at the hub site sitting alongside an existing 4G D-RAN architecture and is shown in Figure 20-11. O-CU, UPF and 5GC location are largely immaterial but they do need connectivity to the appropriate

# 13 L3VPNs.
Figure 20-11: L2 / L3 service layout for scenario 3a

# 19 Notes on the design:
1. Open Fronthaul traffic runs over the access network to an O-DU located in the Hub site using a VPWS EVPN service. 2. The Midhaul/Backhaul control and user plane VPNs extend to the cell site to support the existing 4G D-RAN solution. 3. The QoS design in the access network needs to be able to cater for the requirements of the Open Fronthaul when D-RAN Backhaul traffic is sharing the same physical link.

# 27 20.7.2 Scenario 3b
Scenario 3b is a full two split C-RAN architecture with the O-RU and O-DU at the cell site and the O-CU located at the hub site sitting alongside an existing D-RAN architecture and is shown in

# 30 Figure 20-12
ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 Figure 20-12: L2 / L3 service layout for scenario 3b

# 5 Notes on the design:
1. The only difference between scenario 2 is that the legacy D-RAN equipment also connect to the Midhaul/Backhaul control and user plane VPNs at the cell site.

## 20.8 Scenario 4 5G C-RAN with RoE mappers
Scenario 4 is a full two split C-RAN architecture with O-RAN 7.2x and non O-RAN Fronthaul protocols running across the access network and is shown in Figure 20-13. Figure 20-13: L2 / L3 service layout for scenario 4

# 14 Notes on the design:
1. O-RAN 7.2x C/U plane and non O-RAN Fronthaul packet traffic (between RoE mappers) use VPWS EVPN services. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 2. The expectation is both the O-RAN 7.2x C/U plane traffic and the non O-RAN Fronthaul traffic will have similar delay and jitter characteristics so will run in the same traffic class which is priority queued. 3. The vendor of the RoE mapper function will need to provide details of traffic rates and whether they are fixed or vary depending on user data. The network planner will need to take this into account when capacity planning the access links between the CSR and the

# 7 HSR.

## 20.9 Scenario 6 5G C-RAN with distributed UPF
Scenario 6 includes the insertion of distributed UPFs in the architecture. The solution is illustrated in Figure 20-14 and is easily to achieve by simply connecting the distributed UPF to the Midhaul/Backhaul control and user plane L3VPNs. All necessary transport routing will occur automatically through the L3VPN control plane. Figure 20-14: L2 / L3 service layout for scenario 6

## 20.10 Scenario 7 Slicing
This section has been removed because WG-1 is now developing the overall slice architecture and use cases [25] for the whole of the O-RAN organization. The WG-1 slicing task force is developing the slicing solution in phases over multiple O-RAN releases. The packet switched architecture has an extensive set of capabilities to support transport level slicing which are outlined in section 17. As the slice use cases are going to rapidly evolve based on WG-1 slice use cases, slicing scenario have been moved to Annex F where solution examples are presented.

# 4 Segment Routing architectural principle
There is a single SR architecture which is defined in RFC8402 [139]. This defines the general concepts of SR and is independent from the specific data plane. Currently, there are two instantiations of the SR architecture designed and implemented in production code, SR over MPLS

# 8 (SR-MPLS) and SR over IPv6 (SRv6).
The architecture relies on segments identifiers (SIDs) and SID lists. The SID represents a single instruction which can be related to how the packet is forwarded or a function that needs to be performed on a packet. A SID lists or the SR policy is a collection of SIDs or instructions to be performed on the packet as it traverses the SR domain. Typically, a SID list is imposed on the packets as it enters the SR domain and is either empty or completed by the time it leaves an SR domain. There are two basic types of segment, global segments which correspond to instructions that are globally valid in an SR domain and local segments which correspond to instructions that are only valid within a single node. Some of the key segment types are: 1. IGP Prefix and IGP node segments: These are global SIDs and are instructions on how to forward a packet towards a destination IP network or destination IP node. As the name suggests these are conveyed by IGP and can be used by any node in the SR domain to send traffic to a node or IP prefix. 2. Adjacency segments: These are local SIDs which identify the links available on that node. 3. Anycast segments: These are a special IGP-prefix segment that corresponds to an anycast prefix. ie a prefix advertised by more than one router. Anycast and anycast segments are commonly used to provide high availability or load balancing solutions. 4. Binding Segments: These are a single SID that is associated with a segment list or SR policy. This means the node that processes the Binding SID replaces the single segment with a segment list. Using Figure 21-1 as an example, the basic SR architecture can support: 1. A dynamically locally computed forwarding path between an ingress and egress point within the SR domain by the ingress node either imposing the node SID of the egress node or the prefix SID of the destination prefix. Typically, a link-state IGP or an EGP routing protocol, running locally on the routers calculate these types of paths and they exhibit the behaviour of normal routing protocols such “Shortest Path Forwarding” and “Equal Cost

# 37 Multi Pathing (ECMP)
2. A fully deterministic path between the ingress and egress points. In this case the SR policy or SID list includes all nodes on the path and if required adjacency SIDs to select links between nodes. 3. A combination of the two. The SR architecture can build a path between an ingress and egress node that combines dynamically computed forwarding and explicitly routed forwarding. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 3 IPv6 (SRv6).

# 4 SR-MPLS
The MPLS data plane (SR-MPLS) is specified in RFC 8660 “Segment Routing with MPLS data plane”[146], In the case of SR-MPLS, Segment Routing does not require any change to the MPLS forwarding plane. An SR Policy is instantiated through the MPLS Label Stack and the Segment IDs (SIDs) of a Segment List are inserted as MPLS Labels. The classical forwarding functions available for MPLS networks allow implementing the SR operations.

# 10 IPv6 data plane (SRv6)
For the IPv6 data plane (SRv6), a new type of IPv6 Routing Extension Header, called Segment Routing Header (SRH) has been defined in RFC 8754 IPv6 Segment Routing Header (SRH) [151]. The SRH contains the Segment List (SR Policy) as an ordered list of IPv6 addresses: each address in the list is a SID. A dedicated field, referred to as Segments Left, is used to maintain the pointer to the active SID of the Segment List. This SRH format and basic operation of the SRH is illustrated in Figure 21-2. Figure 21-2 SRH header and interaction between segments left and SID list To explain the SRv6 data plane, there are three categories of nodes: Source SR nodes, Transit nodes and SR Segment Endpoint nodes. A Source SR node corresponds to the headend node, it can be a host originating an IPv6 packet, or an SR domain ingress router encapsulating a received packet in an outer IPv6 header. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 Figure 21-3 Packet and SRH construct for IPv4 payload for traffic following nodes 1,2,5 In Figure 21-3, which considers the latter case the source SR node (S1) is an edge router that encapsulates a packet (which can be IPv6, IPv4 or an Layer 2 frame) into an outer IPv6 packet and inserts the SR Header (SRH) as a Routing Extension Header in the outer IPv6 header. The traffic is destined for S5 and for policy reasons the operator wishes to send the traffic via S2 and S3 which is not the shortest IGP path. To implement this policy, a segment list is composed of S2 and S5. S3 does not need to be specified because the shortest path from S2 to S5 is via S3. To implement this SR policy and assuming the use of a reduced SRH (for details see RFC8754[146]) the packet details are shown in Figure 21-3. In addition to the basic operations, the SRv6 Network Programming model [154] describes a set of functions that can be associated to segments and executed in a given SRv6 node. Examples of such functions are: different types of packet encapsulation (e.g. IPv6 in IPv6, IPv4 in IPv6, Ethernet in IPv6), corresponding decapsulation, lookup operation on a specific routing table (e.g. to support VPNs). The list of functions described in [154] is not meant to be exhaustive, as any function can be associated to a segment identifier in a node. Obviously, the definition of a standardized set of segment routing functions facilitates the deployment of SR domains with interoperable equipment from multiple vendors.

# 21 Segment Routing control plane
The control plane is responsible for calculating, building the connectivity graphs and implementing the SR policies within the network. Segment Routing can support distributed, centralised or hybrid control plane architectures. See Figure 21-4 for more details. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 17 MPLS-SR distributed control plane
The MPLS-SR distributed control plane utilises ISIS or OSPF routing protocols with extensions to advertise the different types of IGP segments (prefix, node, adjacency, any cast) between TNEs.

# 21 IPv6 distributed control plane
For the IPv6 data plane, the process of advertising the IGP-prefix, IGP-node and IGP-anycast segments is simplified due to the use of IPv6 addresses as SIDs. In particular, there is no need to extend the IGP routing protocols to distribute these segment types, because they are IPv6 prefixes natively distributed by the routing protocols. This means that the Control Plane for SRv6 can use the regular IPv6 link state IGP routing protocols (OSPFv3, ISIS) to support the basic operations, while extensions are still needed ([149][150]) to distribute IGP-Adjacency segments and other SR configuration information.

# 29 Centralised control plane
Although much emphasis has been made of fully centralised control plane models in academia for path computation, they have not made their ways into production large scale WAN designs due to the distributed nature of the transport nodes and the need for the transport nodes to communicate at ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 all times with the central controller. As a consequence, most WAN SDN designs today are hybrid in nature, where intelligence is split between the TNEs and central SDN controllers. Note: This discussion above only considers path computation element of a central controller. There are many aspects of a central SDN controller including orchestration, data analytics etc.

# 6 Hybrid control plane
The hybrid control plane is combination of distributed control plane and centralised SDN control plane functionality. Like the central control plane model there is no universal architecture for a hybrid control plane design, other than some functions are provided centrally and others occur locally on the TNEs. One of the most common hybrid control plane designs is where the central SDN controllers provides a “Path Computation Element” capability. In this model the PCE is responsible for path computation and inter-domain routing with the distributed control planes running on the TNEs, responsible for building the link state database, calculating the network graph and building the shortest path forwarding tables. In this scenario there is generally a tight relationship between the two components. A. The TNEs exchange topology information, creates the link-state database and computes the shortest path forwarding tables. B. The centralised control plane component needs to get visibility of the distributed protocol’s link-state database to understand the current topology. Some of the common approaches are: a. The SDN controller participates in the IGP and as a consequence builds its own link- state database and network graph. b. The SDN controller extracts IGP databases from the network using proprietary mechanisms. c. BGP-LS (BGP link state) runs between one or more TNEs and centralised controllers. In this way the centralised controller gets visibility of the network through BGP-LS. C. In many instances the centralised control plane needs to gather other information about the network, for example link loading. Currently, there is no single standard for collecting this information. Common mechanisms include SNMP, telemetry feeds and operational data from

# 31 Yang models residing on the devices.
D. The central controller and the TNEs also need to communicate when, either a TNE requests a service from the central SDN controller, or the central SDN controller wants to push an explicit policy to a TNE. An example would be if a TNE needs build an SR policy and wants to use the services of a PCE. The transport node and the PCE need to communicate, some of the common protocols used for this type of communications include: a. Network Configuration Protocol b. PCE (PCEP) c. BGP d. Openflow (SR-MPLS)

# 45 EVPN service as outlined Table 6.
ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 Service Type Standardization status Layer 2 VPN VLAN-based RFC 7432 [121]: BGP MPLS-Based Ethernet E-LAN VLAN-bundle VPN VLAN-aware bundle VLAN-based RFC 8317[135] : Ethernet-Tree (E-Tree) E-Tree VLAN-bundle Support in Ethernet VPN (EVPN) and Provider VLAN-aware bundle Backbone Bridging EVPN (PBB-EVPN) VLAN-based RFC 8214 [129]: Virtual Private Wire Service E-Line Support in Ethernet VPN (VPWS) draft-ietf-bess-evpn-vpws-fxc [169]: EVPN VLAN-bundle VPWS Flexible Cross-Connect Service RFC 9136 [156]: IP Prefix Advertisement in Layer 3 VPN Ethernet VPN (EVPN)

# 3 The two major building blocks of EVPN are:
- Control plane, based on Border Gateway Protocol (BGP), to distribute all necessary
information required for proper EVPN operation
- Data plane, with different underlay transport options, to suit various requirements:
o MPLS (LDP, RSVP, BGP-LU, MPLSoUDP, SR, SR-TE) o IP (VxLAN, SRv6)

# 9 EVPN E-LAN service
EVPN E-LAN service is a Layer 2 multipoint-to-multipoint service. In essence, EVPN E-LAN emulates Layer 2 switch behavior, with attachment circuits (ACs) of this single emulated Layer 2 switch present on multiple Provider Edge (PE) routers, which are placed in different network locations, as outlined in Figure 22-1 CE1 PE1 PE3 CE3 BGP BGP BGP CE2 BGP PE4 PE2 CE4 CE1 CE3 CE2 CE4

# 16 Figure 22-1: EVPN E-LAN service
Similar to ordinary Layer-2/Layer-3 switch, EVPN E-LAN service provides ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 3 VLAN tags, including VLAN translation
- single-homed, as well as multi-homed (both single-active and all-active) attachment circuits
capability
- BUM optimization mechanisms (like for example APR proxy/suppression, IGMP proxy,
etc.)
- handover to Layer-3 domain via integrated routing and bridging (IRB) operation and more.

# 9 EVPN E-Tree service
EVPN E-Tree service is an enhancement of EVPN E-LAN service, which allows to restrict certain communication patterns, creating in essence a point-to-multipoint service model. As outlined in Figure 22-2, each attachment circuit is designated as root (R) or leaf (L). As per EVPN E-Tree definition, only rootroot and rootleaf Layer 2 communication is permitted, while leafleaf

# 14 Layer 2 communication is blocked.
BGP BGP

# 16 Figure 22-2 EVPN E-Tree services
At a high level, EVPN E-LAN service can be considered as a special case of EVPN E-Tree service, with all attachment circuits designated as root. In fact, many vendors use the same configuration constructs for EVPN E-LAN and EVPN E-Tree, defaulting the attachment circuit to a root, with some configuration knobs turning it to a leaf.

# 22 EVPN E-Line service
EVN E-Line, called as well EVPN Virtual Private Wire Service (VPWS), is point-to-point Layer 2 service, without MAC learning. Ethernet frame received from an end device connected via single- homed or multi-homed attachment circuit, is transported over this point-to-point service to the remote end device, connected again via single-homed or multi-homed attachment circuit. Since it is pure point-to-point communication, no MAC learning is required, and thus MAC learning is not part of EVPN E-Line (VPWS) architecture.

# C E 1
BGP

# P E 1

# P E 2

# P E 3

# P E 4 BGP C
C C E E E R RL R L R L R L C C C C E E E E ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 3 Figure 22-3 EVPN E-Line (VPWS) services

# 5 EVPN VLAN-based service
EVPN architecture uses three implementation constructs defined on the Provider Edge (PE) devices:
- EVPN Instance (EVI), called as well MAC-VRF. Both EVI and MAC-VRF will be used in
this document interchangeably.

# 10 • Bridge (MAC learning) domain/table

# 11 • Broadcast (flooding) domain (i.e. VLAN)
Depending how these building blocks are used, EVPN architecture defines 3 options for constructing EVPN services:
- EVPN VLAN-based service (applicable to EVPN E-LAN, EVPN E-Tree and EVPN E-Line
services)
- EVPN VLAN-bundle service (applicable to EVPN E-LAN, EVPN E-Tree and EVPN E-

# 18 Line services)
- EVPN VLAN-aware bundle (applicable to EVPN E-LAN and EVPN E-Tree services only)
In EVPN VLAN-based service, each EVI contains single bridge (MAC learning) domain/table, which in turn contains only single VLAN (single broadcast/flooding domain). This is the simplest EVPN service with 1:1 mapping between VLAN and EVI as outlined in 0 C C C C E E E E

# P E 1

# P E 2

# P E 3

# P E 4
C C C C

# E 3

# E 4

# E 3

# E 4
ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 8 EVPN VLAN-bundle service
The biggest challenge with basic EVPN VLAN-based service is scaling. In EVPN VLAN-based service each VLAN consumes dedicated EVI, thus the maximum numbers of VLANs that can be served is limited by the supported EVIs on given hardware platform. EVPN VLAN-bundle service addresses this scaling limitation by bundling multiple VLANs into single bridge (MAC learning) domain/table and single EVI (MAC-VRF), as outlined in Figure 22-5

# 16 Figure 22-5 EVPN VLAN-bundle service (E-LAN, E-Tree, E-Line)
ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 VLAN bundling allows dramatic reduction of MAC-VRFs that otherwise would be needed on the router. Therefore, EVPN VLAN-bundle service is typically used in high-scale environment, with large number of VLANs or VLAN combination (QinQ) that must be transported with EVPN service. This scaling improvements brings improvements, as well some restrictions for service deployment, namely:
- the original VLAN tag must be carried with frame across EVPN network and VLAN
translation is not supported

# 10 • MACs cannot be re-used across different VLANs
The first restriction is related to the fact, that underlying transport identification (i.e. MPLS label with MPLS underlay transport, Function:Argument with SRv6 underlay transport) identifies the bridge domain. Therefore, the underlying transport identification cannot be used to distinguish Ethernet frames - received over EVPN network - as belonging to different VLANs, if VLAN tag is stripped before sending Ethernet frames across EVPN. And this differentiation is required to maintain per-VLAN broadcast/flooding restrictions. Second restriction is the straight result of bundling multiple VLANs in single bridge (MAC learning) domain/table. All these bundled VLANs use the same MAC table, therefore all MACs must be unique across all bundle VLANs.

# 22 EVPN VLAN-aware bundle Service
Restrictions of EVPN VLAN-bundle services are removed by EVPN VLAN-aware bundle service. EVPN VLAN-aware bundle service is a trade-off between EVPN VLAN-based service (poor scaling, but simple service without restrictions related to VLAN translation or MAC learning) and EVPN VLAN-bundle service (good scaling, but restricting VLAN translation support and requiring

# 27 MAC uniqueness).
EVPN VLAN-aware bundle brings back separate bridge (MAC learning) domain/table per VLAN, still keeping the option to bundle multiple VLANs with single EVI (MAC-VRF), as outlined in

# 30 Figure 22-6.
ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 7 Table 7 summarizes different EVPN service models.
Characteristic VLAN- VLAN- VLAN- based bundle aware bundle Broadcast domains (VLANs) per EVI =1 1 1 Bridge (MAC learning) domains per EVI =1 =1 1 MACs must be unique across VLANs no yes no VLAN translation allowed yes no yes VLAN tag carried over yes/no yes yes Ethernet Tag (BD) ID on BD scoped routes 0 0 ≠0 Port based service support no yes yes

# 9 Table 7: EVPN VLAN service types comparison

# 11 MEF/EVPN service mapping
MEF 6.3 (Subscriber Ethernet Service Definitions) defines Ethernet services commonly used in Ethernet metro aggregation architectures. Table 8 provides the mapping between MEF service definitions and IETF EVPN service implementations. MEF 6.3 Ethernet Service Definitions IETF EVPN Service Definition EPL: Ethernet Private Line EVPN E-Line VLAN-based EVPL: Virtual Ethernet Private Line EVPN E-Line VLAN-bundle (port-based) EP-LAN: Ethernet Private LAN EVPN E-LAN VLAN-based EVP-LAN: Ethernet Virtual Private LAN EVPN E-LAN VLAN-bundle (port-based) EVPN E-LAN VLAN-aware bundle (port based) EP-Tree: Ethernet Private Tree EVPN E-Tree VLAN-based EVP-Tree: Ethernet Virtual Private Tree EVPN E-Tree VLAN-bundle (port-based) EVPN E-Tree VLAN-aware bundle (port based) Table 8: MEF Ethernet Services to IETF EVPN Services Mapping

# 4 • A Provider Edge (PE) Routers

# 5 • Virtual Routing Forwarding

# 6 • Route Distinguisher (RD)

# 7 • Route Target (RT)

# 8 • Multi-Protocol Border Gateway Protocol (MP-BGP)

# 10 Provider Edge (PE) Router

# A Provider Edge router is a device which originate or terminate a L3VPN service. In other words, a PE router is a VPN Endpoint, providing connectivity to the device(s) connected to it.

# 15 Figure 23-1 PE routers in an Xhaul infrastructure
In the context of an Xhaul packet switched transport network, the first L3 router enabling an L3VPN services to provide connectivity between the O-RAN/3GPP components (O-RU, O-DU, O- CU, UPF, 5GC) is considered a Provider Edge (PE) router. This could be a CSR or HSR in

# 20 Fronthaul, Midhaul or Backhaul network.
VPN Routing and Forwarding Tables (VRF) and Route Distinguishers (RD) The VPN routing and forwarding table (VRF) is a key element in the BGP based L3 VPN technology. A VRF essentially define a VPN instance on PE and associates a routing table instance with the VRF. A VRF exist on PEs and more than one VRF can exist on a single PE. The VRF contains routes that should be available to a particular set of sites participating in the VPN. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 6 IP address space across VRFs.
An RD is a local value on the PE in the Packet Switched RAN network.

# 9 Route Targets (RT)
Route Targets (RT) are the mechanism by routing information distribution can be controlled within an BGP based VPN throughout the packet switched network. Route Target are propagated through the BGP based VPN network using route-target extended MP-BGP communities. Every PE within the MPLS VPN network define a set of RT values for import or export of VPN route information.

# 14 BGP based VPN uses route-target communities as follows:
- When a VPN route is injected into MP-BGP, the route is associated with a list of VPN
route-target communities.
- An import list of route-target communities is associated with each VRF. This list defines the
values that should be matched against to decide whether a route is eligible to be imported into this VRF. Figure 23-3: Use of route targets to control IP connectivity within a VRF ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 Figure 23-3 above shows a simple mechanism of import and export Route Communities within an BGP based VPN network. Where required CSR route-targets may be configured to be different than the Hub Site Router. For scalability and efficient resource usage on the CSR, the operator may choose to not import all the routes, rather importing the routes from Hub Site Route and only certain other CSR’s. When used properly, Route Targets can be used to limit the routing table information within a BGP based VPN Network and create different IP topologies at the transport layer. These include:

# 10 • Any to any topologies.

# 11 • Hub and spoke topologies.

# 13 Multi-Protocol Border Gateway Protocol (MP-BGP)
MPLS VPN information is propagated through the network using Multi-Protocol BGP (MP-BGP) [90]. All PE routers within the VPN must configure MP-BGP peering and enable VPN address- family and extended communities to exchange VPN related information including routing table information and Route Targets.

# 19 Traffic Steering into an BGP VPN
SR Policy operations is defined in [158]. It is a mechanism that can be to create an end-to-end Label Switch Path (LSP) using required metrics and constraints. While using Segment Routing Traffic Engineering (SRTE) for traffic path programmability, it is possible to automatically steer BGP based VPN traffic into an SRTE policy. Typically, an SRTE Policy is uniquely identified using the following 3-tuple consisting of:
- Head End: Starting point of the LSP created by SRTE Policy
- End Point: Destination for the traffic using the SRTE LSP
- Color: A numeric value associated with the SRTE policy.
The SRTE policy color is a numeric value that is configurable in the SRTE policy. Once a VPN endpoint route is “tagged” with this color, traffic can be automatically steered into the SRTE policy.

# 34 Figure 23-4: Traffic Steering with BGP based VPNs
ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 As shown above, the VPN routes can be colored in 2 possible ways: 1. While defining a VRF, define a color for all Prefixes associated with that VRF, or 2. When sending or receiving BGP routes, using a policy to “color” the route. In either case, the VPN route will now be tagged with a color and traffic for the destination or a flow will automatically be steered into the SRTE policy that may provide traffic path programmability.

# 30 Why do we need QoS?
Applications using the network transport will often require certain capabilities from the network in order for the application to function correctly. For example, real-time voice services (telephone calls) can only sustain a maximum latency between the end points before interactive speech becomes difficult. This maximum latency between endpoints translates to two demands from the network; 1. Minimising hop by hop latency as a voice packet flows across the network infrastructure. 2. Minimising jitter in the packets arriving in order to minimise the de-jitter buffer needed at the receiver (which adds latency). It is useful then to be able to identify voice traffic in the network and prioritise if for forwarding such that it is not held up behind other less time sensitive traffic. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 A second example might be an Electronic Point of Sale (EPoS) application. This type of application does not need to be particularly latency bound (a few 10s or 100s of milliseconds in packet arrival does not impact the service), but it does need to have some guaranteed capacity in order to function. I.e. we do not want the EPoS application struggling for bandwidth because a large data transfer is taking place. This guaranteed bandwidth requirement also translates into network demands. 1. Minimising packet loss for the traffic, if necessary, storing it locally until the local egress interface has capacity to send it on. 2. Reserving a minimum amount of transmission time (or bandwidth) on the interface for packets of the EPoS application. QoS then is the mechanism by which operators can identify applications in an infrastructure and apply policies to the infrastructure to maintain the applications transport requirements, even when capacity is limited. QoS functional elements As a suite of capabilities QoS can be broken out into three distinct sets of functions;

# 18 1. Traffic Classification and marking

# 19 2. Congestion avoidance

# 20 3. Congestion management
These three function sets work together to identify (classify) different traffic types, determine how much of each traffic type should be allowed into and through the network (congestion avoidance) and how traffic should be scheduled when interfaces become congested (congestion management). The specific implementation of these capabilities is vendor specific, but in general, the behaviours required by the different functions are defined as policies, either individually or in groups. These policies are applied to interfaces on the switching elements in a network defining the local behaviours within the device. Network level behaviour QoS is implicitly a mechanism that is node based; the management of traffic in one node has no direct impact on the management of traffic in surrounding nodes. However, it is important to design the QoS behaviour of a network as a whole. Just as the operator has the ability to define the routing behaviour of a network as a system of single hop by hop elements, so she has the ability to define the QoS behaviour of the network as a system. The interaction between elements is defined by the policies applied to each device and the use of “class of service” markings applied to the packets or frames flowing between the devices. 1 The use of markings allows an individual network element to pass some information about a given packet to a downstream element. How this downstream element interprets the information and then The term “class of service” is used here to generically to describe the specific markings in a packet or frame. The author recognises Class of Service (COS) identifies such markings in an ethernet header as defined by IEEE 802.1p. Here it is generically used to refer to Ethernet COS, IP TOS, IP PREC, IP DSCP. MPLS EXP etc. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 acts on it, is out of the upstream elements control, but a network of devices under single administrative control may choose to use such information in network wide policy. Node level behaviour

# 7 Figure 24-1: Example network QoS structure
The per-hop-behaviours (PHBs) needed in the network can generally be broken down into two sets; Those needed at the edge of the network (Edge QoS), and those needed in the core of the network (Core QoS). We can see these behaviours in Figure 24-1. 1. Edge QoS. Here we are classifying traffic entering into the network on ingress (1) and scheduling traffic leaving the network on egress (6). Here the ingress classification (from the client) and egress classification (5) and scheduling (6) (towards the client) will (often) be determined by the markings of the client traffic being transported across the network. In addition, ingress traffic (CE → PE), once classified, will be marked (2) to conform to the transport marking scheme. 2. Core QoS. Here traffic will be classified by the transport marking scheme (4) (mentioned above), scheduled based on those markings (3). This PHB is designed to manage traffic at an aggregate level, treating services that have common requirements (defined by marking) with a common behaviour. These two sets of PHBs present different requirements to the underlying hardware and care should be taken when selecting a platform to ensure the operators desired PHBs can be met.

# 29 Traffic classification and marking
As previously mentioned, traffic classification is a term used to describe the identification and categorisation of traffic arriving at or inside network element. Classification broadly falls into two distinct categories. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 10 Figure 24-2: Context based classification
In a second example, all traffic arriving on a specific interface might be classified (categorised) as

# 13 “real time” or “high priority” (see Figure 24-2).
Whilst use of context-based classification is important, it is a somewhat blunt tool, and assumes that all traffic arriving on an interface is of a single type and requires common treatment.

# 17 Packet based classification
Packet based classification gives us a more selective tool with which to categorize traffic arriving at a node. In this mode the node examines one or more fields in the arriving packets (or frames) to make a categorisation decision. One approach is to classify traffic into categories based on some flow or application information. E.g. looking at source or destination, ether type, IP protocol, UDP or TCP port number etc. In this way the node can infer the required QoS capabilities (e.g. low latency, minimum bandwidth, best effort etc) from the type of traffic embedded in the packet. However, often the most pragmatic approach is to require that packets are pre-marked with an explicit class of service marking. The specific marking model varies dependent on the transport being used, but the primary marking schemes to support are Ethernet Priority Code Point (PCP) and Drop Eligible Indicator (DEI) fields in Ethernet IEEE 802.1p (part of the IEEE 802.1q VLAN header specification), IP TOS, PREC or DSCP ECN fields (defined in IETF RFC 2474 [49] and RFC 3168) and MPLS TC (EXP) field (defined in IEFT RFC 3032 [61] and RFC 5462). The use of a class of service (COS) marking allows a packet source or network element to encode the required QOS capabilities for a packet directly into the packet header. By predetermining the marking scheme to be used for the COS field, classification using the COS field alone is often sufficient to determine the PHB needed in the network node. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 24 Figure 24-3: QoS marking domains
A useful concept is to consider the use of a given marking scheme within a QoS marking domain. Nodes within a domain use a common scheme, allowing identification of traffic with common properties (a traffic class). Policies are then implemented in each node to maintain the appropriate network behaviour for each identified class, when under congested conditions. At the border between domains, the border element should be capable of classifying traffic in the first domain and remarking it for transport in the second. Usually the policy for forwarding will be implemented to honour the class structure for the domain it is in. In Figure 24-3, three domains are identified, 1) the customer domain, 2) the provider domain 3) an intra-node domain. The PE ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 elements on the left and right of the provider domain border the provider and customer domains and will be responsible for remarking traffic as appropriate.

# 4 Congestion management
Thus far we have discussed the options available for classifying traffic. But once classified, we must consider what behaviour to apply. As mentioned in the introduction to this section, a QoS node fundamentally only has three options available for managing traffic; forward, store for forwarding later or drop, but these options need only be applied when a bandwidth resource is congested. A key function of QoS is that of managing traffic during congestion of an interface. Congestion occurs when the quantity of traffic to be forwarded on an interface exceeds its capacity. In its simplest form, QoS alleviates this issue by buffering the excess traffic, i.e. storing it in a local memory until such time that the interface is available to send the stored traffic.

# 16 FIFO Queueing
By storing packets that need to be sent on to this interface in the order they arrive, and then sending them in that order when the interface is free, we form a “first in - first out” (FIFO) queue of packets. This mechanism, queueing, is a useful tool for managing temporary congestion, smoothing out the bursts of traffic flowing into an interface, and forms the basis for more complex congestion management tools. There are four aspects of this capability that cause challenges; 1. By storing traffic for later sending, we intrinsically delay that traffic that is being stored, adding latency to the transmission path for that traffic. Further, because the delay may be variable, (different amounts of traffic may be enqueued prior to this packet arriving) we introduce jitter. 2. As the speeds of the interfaces we are managing increases, we need more memory capacity to store enough packets to substantively impact the traffic we are buffering. 3. The process is of queuing traffic is indiscriminate, in that it impacts all traffic flowing through an interface. This presents the same latency implication to all applications using this interface, some of which will be impacted by this delay, and some will not. 4. As the amount of memory available to for the queue is finite, so the queue is finite. As a result, if the rate of arrival of traffic to be forwarded is significantly higher than the interface rate or the burst is long enough, the available buffer will be filled, and no further traffic can be enqueued. At this point, the node has no option but to drop traffic. When a queue is full, and a node can no longer add packets to the end (tail) of the queue, traffic otherwise destined for that queue is indiscriminately dropped from the tail (tail drop), until such time that the queue depth reduces and space is made available again for new traffic. It is worth remembering at this point that the application of QoS to an infrastructure is only a solution for the management of how traffic is dropped under congestion conditions. It is not a replacement for capacity planning and management for traffic that MUST be delivered. I.e. if a network has less capacity available than the amount of traffic that MUST be delivered, applying QoS is not an alternative to augmenting the capacity. However, it is possible to significantly improve on this single FIFO queue model by combining the use of classification with a programable scheduler to determine how we enqueue traffic, how much we allow to pass, and what to do with the excess. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 8 Figure 24-4: Class based queue
In this model, shown in Figure 24-4, the system identifies separate logical queues for traffic destined to flow out of a given interface. Traffic can be placed into a queue based on the classification information gained on arrival (or if the system is capable, after the packet has been forwarded – determined that it should flow out of this specific interface). For example, traffic identified as needing low latency, and low jitter (real time – our voice calls from earlier) may be placed into queue 1. Traffic requiring some minimum bandwidth (business critical, our EPOS traffic) may be placed into queue 3. Traffic that has no specific requirements

# 18 (best effort) may be placed into queue 5.
The scheduler can now be programmed to dequeue traffic and place it onto the interface following a pre-determined policy – for example; 1. Serve all high-priority traffic first (E.g. Queue 1 and 2), up to a given capacity of the interface for each queue (for example 50% and 5%). Any traffic arriving at this interface for those queues that cannot be served at that rate should be placed into the appropriate queue. 2. Serve traffic from low priority queues (queue 3, 4 and 5) with equal priority (a packet from each) until the minimum guaranteed amount of bandwidth allocated to that queue is met. 3. Continue to serve traffic from low priority queues until either the queue is empty, or the interface bandwidth is consumed. This type of policy allows maximum use of the available bandwidth whilst guaranteeing each application class will have access to at least the capacity it needs to support the user base.

# 33 Hierarchical class-based queueing
A further extension of this model uses a tiered set of schedulers to manage sets of queues that are “grouped” to manage traffic associated with some logical entity on the physical interface. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 3 Figure 24-5: Hierarchical class-based queue model
In Figure 24-5, we have a physical interface supporting two VLANs (orange and green). Each VLAN has its own set of queues and its own scheduling policy for those queues. In this example the orange VLAN has two priority queues and three guaranteed bandwidth queues. The top scheduler (2) is responsible for managing the flow of traffic from the queues associated with that VLAN. The bottom scheduler (3) manages this flow of traffic from the queue associated with the green

# 10 VLAN.
Schedulers (2) and (3) are regarded as child schedulers, and their packet flow is in turn managed by scheduler (1), the parent scheduler for the interface. The parent scheduler will be programmed with a policy to manage the traffic flowing from the child schedulers toward the interface. This model can allow for a “hard” distribution of the bandwidth on an interface amongst the logic entities sharing that capacity, protecting the use of the bandwidth for a given VLAN (orange) from the others on the same interface (green).

# 19 Congestion avoidance
Thus far we have discussed the options available for classifying traffic, and managing traffic when interfaces are under congestion. We have examined how, when an interface is congested, we can consider which packets to forward and when. However, one important aspect of QoS is the prevention of congestion in the first place.

# 25 Congestion avoidance predominantly takes two forms;

# 26 1. Admission control
2. Selective queue management through random early discard (RED) or weighted random early discard (WRED) ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 12 Figure 24-6: Admission control policing
By pre-agreeing that the network can only sustain a certain number of calls, we can police the traffic arriving from the application, to the agreed level. In the case of the packet network, this means agreeing a sustainable bandwidth level and honouring that level at the point that we accept traffic from the application. Once we have classified traffic to determine that it is indeed voice traffic, we can apply a policer to that traffic class to limit the amount of traffic that is accepted. If the application violates the agreed rate, the policer will drop some packets, forwarding only the rate that was previously agreed. It should be noted that for this particular application, again voice quality will suffer, however, the onus is now on the application to stay within the terms of the agreed contract for the benefit of its own service. So, if by dropping traffic at admission to the network we will see the application service degrade, just as if we drop traffic in the middle of the network, why bother? Should we not simply let the traffic have access and hope there is sufficient capacity to support the application demand? ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 3 Figure 24-7: Service protection through admission control
This is where the network level administration of QoS becomes relevant. Consider the same core network resource now being shared by two customers (Figure 24-7). If we recognise that the network can only sustain 100 calls, we can ask each customer to restrict their usage, customer 1 to 60 calls and customer 2 to 40 calls. By applying a policy that is specific to each customer context we can ensure that the available network resources are not exhausted, resulting in poor performance for all. If customer 1 exceeds their allocated capacity, some traffic will be dropped at point 1, resulting in poor quality for customer 1. However, if customer 2 continues to maintain their agreement not to exceed 40 calls, there will always be sufficient capacity to support their service without quality impairment.

# 16 Weighted Random Early Discard (WRED)
When looking at congestion management, the idea of a queue was introduced in order to store traffic that is awaiting transmission on an outgoing interface. In this previous discussion we saw that in a simple queue, when the queue is full, any additional traffic is “tail dropped” indiscriminately. For applications that are using a TCP connection over IP, the loss of one (or more) packets from the flow will cause the TCP algorithm to time out and request re-delivery of these missing packets. This also triggers the shortening of the TCP “ack window” resulting in lower throughput for that TCP session. As many TCP session may be impacted at once in a tail drop scenario, this can cause a number of sessions to “back off” reducing the total load on the interface, and the queue to be drained. Over time, the TCP sessions will re-open their ACK window, increasing bandwidth until the interface is once again full and the queue overwhelmed. The result is a sawtooth type bandwidth profile that oscillates around the maximum interface speed. This oscillation reduces the efficiency of the interface usage as there are periods where the interface is not full. Weighted Random early discard (WRED) is a modification to the queue drop behaviour that can help to eliminate this effect. The premise is to manage the acceptance of traffic into the queue in a more intelligent manner. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 19 Class based Weighted Random Early Discard
We have seen it is possible to add traffic to a specific queue based on a classification, in order to differentiate between traffic types flowing in an interface. This allows us the flexibility to manage bandwidth to support different applications in an infrastructure. We have also seen that under some circumstances it might be possible to “borrow” bandwidth from one class to use in another class, in the event that the bandwidth in an interface is not fully used. It is possible to extend the idea differentiated behaviour for traffic from between queues, to within a single queue using the Weighted RED scheme.

# 29 Figure 24-9: Class based WRED function and behaviour
Consider the PE node on the left of Figure 24-9, two CEs are sending EPOS traffic. The PE has capacity at (3) for 100 concurrent sessions. The number of sessions sent by each CE varies. CE 1 ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 has a minimum sustained rate of 60 sessions, and CE 2 has a minimum sustained rate of 40. Each has a possible peak rate of 100. As traffic arrives from CE 1 at point (1) the PE node classifies traffic as part of the EPOS application. It also measures the amount arriving and allows up to 100 sessions worth into the network. For traffic that exceeds the rate of 60 sessions, the node marks this traffic as having exceeded its contracted rate or “out of contract”. The same classification, policing and marking takes place at point (2) for CE 2 with a rate of 40 sessions. This extra marking is termed the discard class or DC. When the incoming packets arrive at the queue depicted on the right, again a decision is made prior to enqueuing the traffic. This time the decision is based on two criteria, the current queue depth AND the discard class of the packet as determined in the ingress policing and marking stages. A sample policy may behave as follows. For queue depth between 0% (4) and 33% (5) all traffic is enqueued. For traffic that is marked with the out-of-contract discard class marking, between queue depth 33% (5) and 66% (6) the drop probability varies from 0 to 1; that is at depth 66% (6) all traffic that is marked out of contract will be dropped. Traffic that is marked “in contract” will continue to be queued for transmission. For queue depths between 66% (6) and 100% (7) no out of contract traffic will be enqueued, and the drop probability for in contract traffic will increase from 0 to 1. It should be noted that the PE is not policing “sessions”, but simply the traffic associated with those sessions. The PE has no knowledge of the nature of the traffic sent by the CE (for example the membership of a specific packet to a specific session), other than the markings being examined. It should also be noted that traffic dropped at point (3) will contain packets associated with many or all of the sessions from the CE whose traffic is being marked “out-of-contract”. The impact of this is that all TCP sessions that lose traffic will again contract their TCP windows, with the effect of lowering the BW used by each session and so reducing the load on the network.

# 34 This behaviour has the following benefits;
1. both CE users 1 and 2 potentially have access to all the bandwidth at point 3 in the diagram when the other user is not consuming it. The network resources at 3 can be optimally used when demand from one user is high and the other is low. Compare this to the example in Service protection through admission control where the network resource at point 3 may be under used. 2. If a user constrains their traffic to within the contracted limit, they are guaranteed delivery, even under congestion caused by out-of-contract traffic being generated by other users. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 16 PIM PE3 CE3 rcvr

# 18 Figure 25-1: Multicast procedures

# 20 PIM-based overlay signalling for IPVPN
The most straightforward way is to emulate a per-VPN pseudo LAN over the underlay network. The pseudo LAN is instantiated by a multicast GRE tunnel for the VPN. Every PE for the VPN joins that tunnel and can send both control plane (PIM messages) and data plane traffic over the tunnel. For example, multicast group 225.1.1.1 used for VPN1, 225.1.1.2 for VPN2, etc. This is referred to as PIM-MVPN and also commonly as Rosen-MVPN. It is documented in the historic RFC6037 and further in RFC6513 [119] (which documents both PIM- and BGP-based overlay signaling). Essentially, a PE runs PIM sessions over each pseudo LAN for each VPN. This is different from unicast, with which no per-VPN session is used. When there are a large number of VPNs, many PIM sessions and signalling (including message refreshes) are incurred so it does not scale well. Most implementations and deployments of PIM/Rosen-MVPN only use IP multicast tunnel in the underlay to emulate the pseudo LANs.

# 36 BGP-based overlay signalling for IPVPN and EVPN
For BGP-based signalling, the overlay signalling is done by BGP just like unicast case. It is referred to as C-multicast signalling (C for Customer) in RFC6513 [119]. BGP-based signaling use unified methods for both unicast and multicast, and inherits all BGP scaling mechanisms and properties. Multicast (IP) VPN with BGP based overlay signalling is referred to BGP-MVPN. While RFC6513[119] covers both PIM-MVPN and BGP-MVPN concepts, BGP-MVPN specific encoding and procedures are specified in RFC6514 [120] . ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 BGP-MVPN also defines mechanisms to signal what type and instance of provider/underlay tunnels are used to transport overlay multicast traffic over the underlay, via Inclusive or Selective PMSI Auto-Discovery routes (often referred to as I/S-PMSI or x-PMSI routes). IP multicast, RSVP-TE P2MP, mLDP P2MP/MP2MP, Ingress Replication, BIER and future additions could all be used as underlay tunnels. EVPN BUM (Broadcast, Unknown unicast and Multicast) only uses BGP overlay signalling and is modelled after BGP-MVPN. It is specified in RFC7432 [121] and further in RFC9572 [166]. BGP-MVPN and EVPN BUM have been widely deployed and are often referred to as Next

# 11 Generation MVPN (NG-MVPN).
Underlay multicast As mentioned above, overlay multicast traffic is transported via underlay multicast tunnels. Many tunnel types have been mature and widely deployed, but with Segment Routing and central control being widely adopted, it is necessary to review the pros and cons of various multicast technologies and see what is the best solution in the SR era. Traditionally, multicast requires per-tree state on all routers of a tree for efficient replication. PIM, RSVP-TE P2MP, mLDP P2MP/MP2MP are all signaling protocols to instantiate tree state on those routers, either from the tree leaves towards the tree root or vice versa. The new SR-P2MP (aka tree- sid) tunnels also requires per-tree state on all root/leaf and replication nodes, except that the signalling is directly from a central controller who also calculates the tree. Obviously, this does not go well with one principal of Segment Routing – no per-flow state inside the network. An alternative is Ingress Replication – the root tunnels individual copies directly to leaves so no per-tree state is needed inside the network. Since replication is done at the root, it is not efficient and does not work well for high fan-out hight data rate cases. BIER (RFC8279 [132], RFC8296 [134]) is a new technology that achieves efficient replication w/o incurring per-tree state, so it is the ideal multicast solution for an SR network. However, it uses a new encapsulation and forwarding algorithm, so it requires new hardware. While this makes it difficult to deploy in non-greenfield networks, there are very well-designed brownfield deployment methods, and all major vendors have BIER implementation & hardware available/upcoming. For an SR network, an operator may prefer to remove all legacy multicast signaling – PIM/RSVP/mLDP and switch to controller-based tree calculation and signaling via either PCEP or

# 37 BGP (i.e., SR-P2MP [draft-ietf-pim-sr-p2mp-policy[173]] [draft-ietf-spring-sr-replication-segment]
or BGP-signaled IP/MPLS multicast [draft-ietf-bess-bgp-multicast-controller[160]]). Notice that this still incurs per-tree state inside the network and the only real benefit is the central calculation of the tree based on many TE constraints/considerations. In summary, depending on many factors, multicast technologies can be considered in the following preference order: 1. PIM or mLDP/RSVP-TE P2MP that are already deployed in existing network

# 46 2. Controller calculated/signalled IP multicast or mLDP/RSVP/SR-P2MP tunnel
3. BIER if enough routers in the network support it ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 MVPN/EVPN and Seamless MPLS/SR Given the vast scale of the transport network, a seamless architecture is used as described previously. In this architecture, two aspects have impacts to multicast: a) Only border routes have routes to edges nodes (that connect to 5G NFs like RAN/UPF), while internal routers only have routes to the border routes. b) Different ASes/areas may support/prefer different types of underlay tunnels For a), to establish end-to-end underlay tunnels across those different ASes/areas, PIM RPF vector [RFC5496][109] or mLDP Recursive FEC [RFC6512][118] can be used – a leaf router looks up the route to the tree root, with the BGP protocol nexthop being a border router in the local area/AS. It then encodes that border router’s address in PIM/mLDP signaling so that internal routers will signal towards that border router instead of the original root. When that border router gets the signaling, it encodes the next border router’s address so that the internal routers in the next AS/area will signal towards the next border router, and so on so forth. An alternative solution for a) is use controller signaled multicast, since the routers become dumb forwarding devices programed with forwarding state for the tunnels by the controllers. For b), MVPN/EVPN-BUM tunnel segmentation RFC7524 [123] and draft-ietf-bess-bgp-multicast- controller [168] can be used – MVPN/EVPN-BUM procedures will run on the border routers and the signaled tunnel type/identification are changed as MVPN/EVPN routes are re-advertised by the border routers, so that different tunnel types/instances are used in different ASes/areas.

# 27 Figure 25-2: Multicast diagram
ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 14 ([179]).
WG-1 Phase 1 scope The role of the transport network in a 5G slicing scenario is to provide the necessary connectivity, isolation, and Quality of Service (QoS) so management, control and user plane traffic can flow between the mobile components, making up a slice, in an appropriate fashion. Figure 26-1 shows the use cases for slicing phase 1 in O-RAN.WG1.Slicing-Architecture-v07.00 [25].

# 25 Figure 26-1: WG-1 Phase 1 use cases

# 27 In slicing phase 1 the scope is:
- Single Mobile Network Operator (MNO) and Transport Network Operator (TNO) who can
be separate organizational entities or the same organizational entity. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00
- Single management and 3GPP and O-RAN control plane infrastructure for all slices.
- Three public geographically dispersed slices covering mobile broadband, mMTC and NB-

# 3 IoT.
- Each cell site supports two radio deployments: 1) Distributed: The O-RU is in the cell site
and the O-DU is in a data center, located across the transport access network. In this instance, the O-RAN 7.2x C/U protocols and procedures run across the transport access infrastructure. 2) Collocated: The O-RU and O-DU reside in the cell site. In this instance, O- RAN 7.2x protocols and procedures run locally in the cell site and Midhaul interfaces run across the transport access infrastructure.
- All three slices are present in all cell sites and all slices use both radio deployment options.
Not illustrated in Figure 26-1, the following has been assumed or are limitations in slicing phase 1.
- The transport network is multi-service and in addition to 5G needs to support:
o 3G and 4G mobile services o Wireline services (consumer, enterprise, and wholesale)
- Mobile components connect directly to the transport network or reside in a data centre that
connects to the transport network.
- O-RAN and 3GPP components present slices to the transport network or Data Center
infrastructure via a discrete physical or logical Ethernet interface (VLANs).
- Data Centers, connected to the transport network, present slices to the transport network via
logical Ethernet interfaces (VLANs).
- There is no slicing in phase 1 in Fronthaul and Midhaul due to lack of slicing support in
these mobile components.
- For the transport network to support QoS appropriate to the QoS requirements of the mobile
infrastructure, it is necessary for the O-RAN and 3GPP mobile components, in the Midhaul and Backhaul, to set the DSCP bits in the IP header of the GTP-U packets based on the importance of the user’s traffic in the radio domain. In slicing phase 1 this is possible for Uplink and Downlink traffic in Backhaul but only for Downlink traffic in Midhaul.
- No multicast capability in required in slicing phase 1.
- Management architectures and interfaces to packet switched infrastructure for slicing are
dealt with in O-RAN.WG9.XTRP-MGT.0-v04.00 “Management interfaces for Transport Network Elements v04.00”, July 2022[23]
> NOTE: This annex only covers 5G slice requirements, however transport network architects also
need to consider the other network services outlined above when designing the transport network. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 Figure 26-2: 3GPP and O-RAN connectivity requirements for phase 1 slicing architecture Figure 26-2 developed jointly between WG-1 and WG-9 shows the capabilities and transport connectivity requirements in slicing phase 1. Components and interfaces in the grey shaded box at the top of the figure are shared entities and interfaces, while entities and interfaces shaded green, orange and pink at the bottom of the figure are dedicated to a slice. At the transport level the design in slicing phase 1 provides: 1. A single O-RAN / 3GPP control plane for all slices. 2. Fronthaul service overlay is common for all slices. 3. Midhaul service overlay is common for all slices. 4. Sliced Backhaul user planes are presented to the transport network by mobile components via a discrete VLAN per slice. User plane traffic from each slice is carried in a discrete L3 VPN in the transport network. WG-1 Phase 2 scope Figure 26-3 shows the new use cases introduced in slicing phase 2 in O-RAN.WG1.Slicing-

# 19 Architecture-v07.00 [25].
ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 32 3GPP mobile core.
ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 Figure 26-4: 3GPP and O-RAN connectivity requirements for phase 2 slicing architecture Figure 26-4 developed jointly between WG-1 and WG-9 shows the capabilities and transport connectivity requirements in slicing phase 2. Components and interfaces in the grey shaded box at the top of the figure are shared entities and interfaces, while entities and interfaces shaded green, orange and pink at the bottom of the figure are dedicated to a slice. At the transport level the design in slicing phase 2 provides: 1. A single O-RAN / 3GPP control plane for all slices. 2. Fronthaul service overlay is common for all slices. 3. Sliced Midhaul and Backhaul user planes are presented to the transport network by mobile components via a discrete VLAN per slice. User plane traffic from each slice is carried in discrete L3VPNs in the transport network. WG-1 Phase 3 scope Figure 26-5 shows the new use cases introduced in slicing phase 2 in O-RAN.WG1.Slicing-

# 17 Architecture [25].
ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 28 C: MP-BGP based L3VPNs of this document.
Underlay network for WG-1 slicing phase 1, 2 and 3 A packet switched network has extensive capabilities to support slicing. These are outlined in section 18. Slicing phase 1 is basic in nature with limited slicing capabilities in the O-RAN mobile components and the actual slices (mobile BB, MMTc, NB-IOT) are low priority and delay tolerant slices. In phase 2, some additional slice types are added (MBB IPTV, Enterprise Core, Enterprise Private Cloud), with more distributed 3GPP, O-RAN component and Application Functions (UPFs and CDNs can be located at regional and central DC levels), and more – but still not very critical – delay sensitivity (for example IPTV). Phase 3 adds even distribution possibilities. With this in mind, and more onerous slicing use cases in later phases, it is proposed to support slicing phase 1 and 2 in the transport network using:
- Default IGP instances running in each underlay routing domain calculating shortest path
routing based on IGP metrics.

# 42 • IGP supporting fast and loop free convergence.
- Inter-domain connectivity performed using either BGP, IGP redistributing or a PCE
infrastructure.
- Management, control and user planes in phase 1 and 2 use shortest path routing between
TNEs. I.e., the Service VPNs associated with each slice are not mapped to TE tunnels or

# 47 Flex-algos in phase 1 or 2.
ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00
- QoS based on Diffserv model defined in RFC2475 [48] and outlined in section 14 and

# 18 Flex-Algo from the outset.
Service Models for WG-1 slicing phase 1, 2 and 3 Management and control plane networks are needed to support the management, orchestration and monitoring of the transport network and the data center infrastructure. In addition to these “infrastructure components”, various management and control plane networks are needed for the management and control of the 5G 3GPP and O-RAN mobile environments. In the transport slicing architecture outlined, some management networks are discrete VPN entities, while others combine multiple management functions together in a single VPN entity. The reasoning behind these choices is outlined, but individual Service Provider’s need to assess their organizational needs and adjust accordingly. Transport and DC management networks Both the transport network and the data center infrastructure are common capabilities used by a range of different services and in many organizations managed by different organizational groups. In this example the management networks for these two entities are separate, as shown in Figure 26-7. Both these management networks need to be set-up in advance on the transport network and are pre-requisites to building a slice across the transport network or instantiating VMs or containers within data centers. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 Figure 26-7: Transport network and Data centre management networks

# 4 Transport network management network
A network wide in-band L3VPN is used for day-to-day management of the TNEs. Every TNE has a local network management interface with an associated network management IP address configured at installation. This is typically a loopback interface. Management protocols associated with TNE’s configuration, monitoring and service orchestration are configured to use this interface as their source interface. The TNE’s management interface is placed into a transport management network built using a MP-BGP L3VPN mapped to the underlay’s default routing algorithm. The transport network management network can be designed as an any-to-any network, meaning that every entity within the L3VPN can connect to every other entity in the transport network management network but are more commonly built so that the central network management functions can communicate with the TNEs and vice versa but the TNEs cannot communicate with each other. In addition to the in-band management network Service Providers may also choose to have an out- of-band network for scenarios when in-band network connectivity has been lost. Various solutions exist, often based on access to the console port, through mobile, xDSL or PON technology.

# 19 Data Centre (DC) management network
In the packet switched transport architecture data centers are distributed around the transport network and although distributed they need to be managed centrally. The DC infrastructure supports “Network Functions” and “Applications Functions”. Some functions are associated with the provision of 5G and O-RAN capabilities and services, but DCs should be considered common infrastructure facilities that support services beyond just 5G. The DC management network needs to support the O2 interface defined by O-RAN but also other data center management, monitoring and orchestration facilities. In the slicing phase 1, 2 and 3 the handoff between the DC and the transport network is via a logical Ethernet attachment circuit. The design of the management infrastructure within the DC is handled by WG-6, with connectivity between DCs and the central DC management infrastructure provided by the transport network. Each DC needs to hand-off the DC management network to a TNE via a logical Ethernet interface. On the TNE the logical Ethernet attachment circuit is placed into a MP-BGP L3VPN mapped to the underlay’s default routing algorithm. This VPN connects all the DCs to the central DC management, monitoring and ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 orchestration functions. The DC management network can be designed as an any-to-any network, meaning that every entity within the L3VPN can connect to any other entity in the DC management network but are more commonly built so that the central network management functions can communicate with the DC components (servers and DC switches) and vice versa, but the DC components cannot communicate with each other. O-RAN control and management networks The O-RAN control and management networks are illustrated in Figure 26-8. Figure 26-8: Fronthaul Management and O-RAN management and control networks

# 13 O-RAN Fronthaul Management network (M-Plane)
Based on guidance from WG-1, the O-RAN Fronthaul M-Plane interface is supported across the transport network as a dedicated VPN. This is discrete from the O-RAN Management and Control VPN that supports the O-RAN A1, E2 and O1 interfaces. The reasoning is Fronthaul management and O-RAN control and management may fall under different organizations within the Service

# 18 Provider.
Full details of Fronthaul M-plane can be found in section 7.1. The design outlined assumes the Fronthaul M-plane is operating in hybrid mode, where a central Fronthaul NMS needs IP connectivity to the O-DUs and the O-RUs. The O-RAN Fronthaul Management network in the transport network uses a MP-BGP L3VPN mapped to the underlay’s default routing algorithm. The VPN needs to be present on all TNEs, through VLAN attachment circuits, that support O-RAN mobile components managed using the Fronthaul M-Plane. O-RAN mobile components that use the M-Plane need to connect to the O-RAN Fronthaul Management VPN, via a logical Ethernet interface, when they are installed or instantiated. The O-RAN Fronthaul Management VPN can be designed as an any-to-any network, meaning that every O-RAN component in the L3VPN can connect to any other entity in the O-RAN Fronthaul Management VPN, or more likely built so the M-Plane management components can communicate with the O-RUs and O-DUs but the O-RUs and O-DUs are restricted in their connectivity. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 O-RAN Control and Management network (A1, E2, O1 interfaces) Based on guidance from WG-1, the O-RAN A1, E2, O1 interfaces are supported across the transport network as single VPN, discrete from the Fronthaul management VPN. The A1 and E2 interfaces are associated with the RAN Intelligent Controllers (RICs). The O-RAN architecture has two RIC entities:
- Near-Real-Time RIC (Near-RT RIC). Near-RT RICs use the E2 interface to communicate
with the O-CUs, and O-DUs they control. The interface controls the O-CUs and O-DUs with execution actions coming from the Near-RT RIC and feedback in the opposite direction.
- Non-Real-Time RIC (Non-RT RIC). Non-RT RICs use the A1 interface to communicate
with the Near-RT RICs they control. The interface provides the Near-RT RICs with policies, enrichment info, and ML model updates. In the other direction the Near-RT RICs provides policy feedback to the Non-RT RIC. The O1 interface is associated with “Service and Management Orchestration”. This interface is an FCAPs interface with configuration, registration, security, performance, and monitoring responsibilities. The O-RAN Control and Management network in the transport network uses MP-BGP L3VPN technology, mapped to the underlay’s default routing algorithm. It needs to be present on all TNEs through VLAN attachment circuits, that support O-RAN components that use either the A1, E2 or O1 interfaces. All O-RAN components using these interfaces need to connect, via the TNEs, to the O-RAN Management and Control VPN when they are installed or instantiated. The O-RAN control and management VPN can be designed as an any-to-any network, meaning that every O-RAN component in the L3VPN can connect to any other entity in the O-RAN control and management VPN, or more likely built as a tiered VPN using a combination of Virtual Routing and Forwarding (VRFs) instances and Route Targets (RTs) so that:
- SMO can communicate Near-RT RICs, O-CU-CPs, O-CU-UPs and O-DUs.
- Non-RT RIC can communicate with the Near-RT RICs.
- Near-RT RICs can communicate with the O-CUs, O-DUs and O-RUs.
3GPP Control Plane network In slicing phase 1, 2 and 3 there is a single 3GPP core infrastructure running in a 3GPP control plane VPN across the transport network. See Figure 26-9 for details. It carries all the 3GPP control plane traffic associated with Midhaul and Backhaul including F1-C, E1, Xn-C, N1, N2, N4 for all slices. In the longer term it is expected that some 5G slices may have a dedicated 3GPP control plane, in these instances they could share the same transport VPN or utilise separate transport VPNs for each slice’s mobile core. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 15 Slicing Phase 1
Slicing phase 1 transport connectivity architecture for the O-RAN and 3GPP user planes is shown in Figure 26-10. The transport connectivity architecture is driven by two factors.

# 18 • Fronthaul and midhaul do not support slicing
- UPFs for all slice types are positioned centrally
ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 Figure 26-10: Slicing Phase 1 O-RAN and 3GPP user plane networks

# 4 Slicing phase 2 and 3
Slicing phase 2 and 3 transport connectivity architecture for the O-RAN and 3GPP user planes is shown in Figure 26-11. The transport connectivity architecture changes to accommodate slicing in midhaul and distributed UPFs and the distribution of the N6 network closer to the radio sites. Figure 26-11: Slicing phase 2 and 3 O-RAN and 3GPP user plane networks This basic set-up can be used for all the phase 1 use cases and those introduced into phase 2 and 3, if midhaul slicing is supported. Each slice now has a single L3 VPN that concurrently supports midhaul and backhaul user plane traffic. Figure 26-11 also shows the N6 network extending deeper into the transport network. This is required, if distributed and centralised UPFs need to be able to access common applications or take advantage of local breakout.

# 18 Fronthaul C/U plane network
In slicing phase 1, 2 and 3, slicing is not supported on O-RAN fronthaul components. In practical terms this means O-RUs and O-DUs are common across all slices and there is a single 7.2X eCPRI stream between the O-RU and O-DU which carries all the control and user plane traffic associated ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 with all slices. The 7.2X C/U interface must support Ethernet encapsulation or optionally support Ethernet / IP encapsulation. Slicing phase 1, 2 and 3 use cases assume the Ethernet variant of the 7.2X protocol, meaning Ethernet connectivity needs to exist between O-RUs and the parent O-DU. Slicing phase 1, 2 and 3 use cases also assumes two radio deployments options:

# 5 Co-located O-RU and O-DU at cell site.
Ethernet connectivity needs to exist between the O-DU and the O-RUs and they both reside in the cell site. There are two options:
- Direct point to point connectivity between the O-RU and the O-DU. In this case the
transport network plays no part in the connectivity or the provision of an Ethernet service between the O-RU and the O-DU.
- Connectivity between the O-DU and O-RUs is via the “Cell Site Router” (CSR). In this case
the Cell Site Router provides layer 2 bridging, or an L2 Ethernet cross connect function between the O-DUs port and the O-RUs port. See section 20.6 for more details.

# 14 O-RU and O-DU separated by access network
For distributed solutions, the O-RUs and the O-DUs are separated across the access portion of the transport network. In this instance, an Ethernet service needs to be created across the MPLS or SRv6 transport underlay. This Ethernet service can use either an E-Line or E-Tree service configured using EVPN over MPLS or SRv6. See sections 13.2 for more details.

# 20 Midhaul user plane network (F1-U and Xn-U)

# 21 Slicing Phase 1
In slicing phase 1 slicing is not supported on Midhaul O-RAN mobile components. O-DUs and O- CU-UPs do not have a concept of slicing with the F1-U traffic from all slices originating and terminating on the same physical/logical interface and IP address on the O-DU. In scenarios, where the O-CU-UP is shared between two or more slices there is also no concept of slicing on the O-CU- UP. In situations, as shown in Figure 26-2, where the O-CU-UP is dedicated to a slice, then the O- CU-UP function will only receive and send traffic associated with that slice, however the O-CU-UP slice assignment and selection process is completely transparent to the transport network and under the control of the O-RAN / 3GPP control planes. For this reason, in slicing phase 1 a single MP- BGP L3VPN mapped to the underlay’s default routing algorithm is used across the transport network to support all Midhaul user plane traffic regardless of slice it belongs too. The L3VPN needs to be present on all TNEs and DC-TNEs that either connect directly or indirectly (through the DC infrastructure) to mobile components that support Midhaul user plane interfaces. Access to the Midhaul user plane VPN, on the TNEs, is via VLAN interfaces. A further challenge with Midhaul user plane interfaces in slicing phase 1 is the lack of a QoS mapping function on the O-DUs to map radio orientated QoS parameters, controlled by the 3GPP / ORAN control planes, to transport orientated DSCP QoS markings. The means the transport network QoS mechanisms must treat all uplink traffic the same, regardless of the importance of the data contained within Midhaul GTP-U packets.

# 41 Slicing Phase 2 and 3
Midhaul slicing and QoS is supported in slicing phase 2 and 3. F1-U traffic segregation is supported using a VLAN per user plane slice on the O-DUs and O-CU-UPs and QoS is supported by the O- DUs and O-CU-UPs setting a DSCP value appropriate to the importance of the user payload in the

# 45 GTP-U packet.
ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 For slicing phase 2 and 3 this annex provides an example where midhaul and backhaul user plane traffic associated with a slice shares a single MP-BGP L3VPN that provides any to any connectivity. If an operator wishes to keep the midhaul and backhaul traffic separate then they could run each slice’s midhaul and backhaul traffic in separate MP-BGP L3VPNs or alternatively use “Route Target” (RT) and BGP community filtering within a single L3VPN, so only backhaul mobile components can communicate with each other and only midhaul mobile components can communicate with each other. Examples of how this can be done are in the following section.

# 9 Slicing Phase 4
Since Slicing and Sharing utilizes similar toolbox in Transport Network domain, the RAN-Sharing via Midhaul” use-case analysis ([28]) captured by ORAN ATG and ORAN UCTG is included in Slicing Phase 4 of the current document scope. Transport Network isolation may be utilized for NPN 5G RAN-sharing architecture to support multiple operator’s midhaul traffic. As shown in NPN RAN-sharing diagram in Figure 26-12, NPN RAN is shared and connected to multiple partner operator’s O-CU via shared midhaul in Transport Network domain.

# 18 Figure 26-12: NPN RAN-sharing via midhaul
Trusted and untrusted midhaul connection in which MNO’s O-CU connects to shared NPN RAN- partition may be isolated using Transport Network L2/L3VPNs and other techniques from Network

# 22 Slicing Framework of this document.

# 24 Backhaul user plane network (N3 and N9)
WG-1 slicing phase 1, 2 and 3 includes user plane slicing in the backhaul network. In phase 1, 2 and 3 it is assumed traffic associated with different slices originates from individual logical Ethernet interfaces on the O-CU-UPs backhaul interfaces and UPFs. These same slice mappings can be maintained across the transport network by mapping VLAN attachment circuits to different L3VPNs on the TNEs or DC-TNEs. Within the transport network MP-BGP L3VPNs can be built per slice or shared between slices depending how the mobile component present the slice traffic to ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 the transport network. For slicing phase 1 and 2 these L3VPNs are mapped to the underlay’s default routing algorithm. In slicing phase 3, flex-algo or Traffic Engineering can be used to map L3VPN to different underlay transport planes. Backhaul L3VPNs (phase 1) or backhaul/midhaul L3VPNs (phase 2 and 3) associated with a slice needs to be present on all TNEs and DC-TNEs that either connect directly or indirectly (through the DC infrastructure) to mobile components supporting that slice. Access to the slice’s L3VPN, on the

# 8 TNEs, is via an VLAN attachment circuit.

# 9 Backhaul Transport Slicing
A full description of MP-BGP based L3VPNs is contained in sections 13.3 and Annex C: MP-BGP based L3VPNs. MP-BGP based L3VPNs support flexible connectivity models and are highly scalable in terms of sites, VPNs and the number of VPN IP routes so able to deal with transport connectivity requirements associated with WG-1s slicing phases and the anticipated size of 5G environments. MP-BGP L3VPN’s have two basic mechanisms for controlling connectivity within a L3VPN.
- Virtual Routing and Forwarding (VRF) instances: These are local routing table associated
with L3VPNs on Provider Edge (PE) TNEs. The VRF holds local and remote VPN routing information. Local routes are those learnt by the PE and normally consist of attachment circuits, routes learnt via routing protocols running over attachment circuits or via local static routing. Remote VPN routes are those learnt from remote PEs. They are conveyed between PEs using MP-BGP and held in the PE’s BGP table. Installation of remote routes into the VRF routing table is determined by local policies. One of the key policy attributes used to determine what routes are installed into a VRF are Route Targets (RTs).
- Route Targets (RTs): RTs are a BGP attribute attached to VPN routes when they are
distributed by MP-BGP from the PE where they were learnt. At the destination PE, filtering of routes based on RTs is one of the key mechanisms for determining what remote VPN routes are imported into a VRF.

# 29 Slicing Phase 1
Slicing phase 1 supports three general purpose 5G backhaul service slices which are network wide. For these simple slice use cases the design shown in Figure 26-13 could be used. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 3 Figure 26-13: Backhaul phase 1 slice design
- Three discrete VRFs associated with the phase 1 slices are created on PEs supporting slices.
Alphabetic VRF names have been used in the illustration. In reality, VRF names could also be numeric values. o VRF1: MBB o VRF2: MMTC o VRF3: NB-IOT
- Mobile components associated with each slice connects to the PE via a VLAN attachment
circuit which is placed into the appropriate slice VRF.
- Each VRF on the PE learns local IP subnets containing the mobile slice components, either
as connected routes, via a routing protocol or via static routes.
- A single RT is associated with each slice type. Alphabetic RT names have been used in the
illustration. In reality, RT values are numeric values. o VRF1: RT = MBB o VRF2: RT = MMTC o VRF3: RT = NB-IOT
- Routes from each slice’s VRF are exported where they are learnt with their associated RT.
- On remote PEs each VRF imports the RT associated with their slice.
- This creates an any-to-any transport network allowing connectivity between all mobile
backhaul components in the slice.
> NOTE: In many cases, Service Providers already use L3VPNs based on RFC4364 [88] and have
their own methodologies for creating L3VPNs. In these instances, Service Providers could use their own VPN design methodology to create an any-to-any VPN for Backhaul slices.
> NOTE: This is a very simple transport slice architecture and suitable for general-purpose slices.
More complex slice use cases may need different L3VPN topologies. The combination of VRFs, RTs and BGP communities and import and export filtering provides a powerful toolset to build these connectivity models. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 4 •

# 5 Figure 26-14: Backhaul phase 2 slice design

# 8 The main differences are:
- A common midhaul/ backhaul MP-BGP L3VPN which extended to all TNEs and DC-TNEs
containing midhaul and backhaul mobile components.
- Distributed UPFs also means the data network (N6) L3VPN may need to extend to
distributed data centers.
- Up to 1000 slices, in addition to the three supported in slicing phase 1.

# 15 Data Network (N6)
The data network or N6 is not part of the RAN and is not in scope of the WG-1 slicing work item. However, transport slicing needs to extend to the N6 data network, particularly as the Data Network (N6) network extends closer to the radio infrastructure with multiple breakout points and although not discussed in this annex, the techniques outlined for the backhaul and midhaul user plane slicing are largely applicable when building the data networks across a common packet switched transport infrastructure. An important consideration when utilising multiple breakout points in the data network (N6) is to ensure traffic exits the network in the desired place but also returning traffic enters the data network (N6) in desired place. This requires UPF address block planning within the data network, how these routes are advertised externally by the routers at the peering points and how external routes are advertised within the Data network (N6). Transport Network Quality of Service architecture Quality of Service (QoS) in the transport network in O-RAN phase 1, 2 and 3 is based on the Diffserv architecture defined in RFC2475 [48] and further outlined in section 14 and Annex D: ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 Quality of Service of this document. The QoS architecture is widely implemented by Service Providers but there are significant differences between Service Providers in their QoS implementations. These include DSCP bit usage, edge policies, marking strategies, numbers of queues on the edge and within the core and how different Per Hop Behaviours (PHBs) are implemented. As such, this section aims to outline some of the key considerations associated with 5G traffic and provide example QoS implementations. Service Providers can use this information to adjust their existing QoS architectures to support 5G.

# 8 Transport QoS considerations in a 5G environment
Section 7 outlines the 5G interfaces the transport network needs to support. In many areas the transport QoS requirements for 5G are very similar to existing 4G and general multi-service environments. However, there are some notable considerations and exceptions.
- In the context of packet-based switching technologies for O-RAN and 3GPP, the interplay
of QoS and transport slicing has two dimensions: 1) The QoS requirements of O-RAN fronthaul traffic 2) The QoS requirements of the mobile services, which depends on the kind of application being delivered to the end users. The transport slicing and QoS architectures needs to consider both dimensions to properly allocate QoS resources capable of satisfying the expected requirements for each kind of traffic in terms of bandwidth, latency, etc.
- O-RAN 7.2X Fronthaul Traffic: The user and control traffic stream is eCPRI based and runs
between the O-RU and the O-DU. It is a new traffic type associated with 5G. The transport requirements of the Fronthaul user and control plane interfaces are contained in the O- RAN.WG9.CTRP-REQ-V01.00 [20] but can be summarised as high bandwidth and more importantly from a QoS perspective, extremely low delay (micro-seconds) traffic. Due to the low delay requirements this traffic type will only ever be seen in the access network and requires packet switching equipment to treat this traffic with the highest priority through the device and when scheduling onto attached interfaces. Today, many Service Providers use the highest priority queue for voice traffic, consequently, changes to the existing QoS schemes may be required.
- 5G introduces Midhaul: Midhaul interfaces run between the O-DUs and the O-CUs and
between O-CUs. The F1 interfaces are a new set of interfaces associated with 5G, but use GTP-U and GTP-C which is the same packet types used in Backhaul. It is expected that Midhaul and Backhaul interfaces will have similar QoS requirements.
- 5G introduces new service types, each with their own QoS requirements. GTPv1-U [5] is
used in the Midhaul and Backhaul for F1-U, Xn-U, N3 and N9 interfaces. The importance of user data packet within the mobile environment is indicated in the QoS Field Identifier (QFI)Error! Reference source not found. in the GTP-U extension header[5]. High performance TNEs do not have the capability to examine the QFI field and instead use the DSCP field in the IP header or the MPLS Traffic Class to understand the QoS requirements of packets in the transport network. For the transport network to be able to treat GTP-U packets in an appropriate fashion for the mobile service, the Midhaul (starting from O-RAN slicing phase 2) and Backhaul (starting from O-RAN slicing phase 1) mobile components (O-DUs, O-CU-UP and UPFs) must have mechanisms to set a DSCP value in the GTP IP header appropriate to the QoS requirements of the mobile service carried in the GTP-U packet. This could be achieved using a mapping mechanism on the Midhaul and Backhaul mobile components that map QFI values to DSCP values.
> NOTE: In O-RAN slicing phase 1, QFI to DSCP mapping facilities is a capability seen on Backhaul
mobile component’s (O-CU-UP (on backhaul side), UPF) user plane interfaces. In phase 2 and 3, ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 QFI to DSCP mapping capability and associated management and control is enhanced to Midhaul mobile components (O-DU, O-CU-UP) user plane interfaces.

# 4 3GPP QoS flows and Transport QoS
The concept of QoS in 4G LTE is based on bearers, while the concept of QoS in 5G mobile systems is based on the QoS Flow concept [1] which provides finer granularity. Flows in 5G and 4G bearers can be divided into guaranteed bit rate flows (GBR QoS flows) and non-guaranteed bit rate flows (non-GBR QoS flows). 5G also has a new delay critical GBR flow category which is not present in LTE. QoS flows also have a service expectation which is expressed in terms of packet delay budget and packet error rate. The mobile QoS requirements are designated through the QoS Class Identifier (QCI) in LTE [2] and the 5G QoS Identifier (5QI) in 5G [2]. These identifiers can be operator defined but there is also a standardized list contained in [1]. Within the mobile domain traffic (of flows in 5G or bearers in LTE) with a given QCI or 5QI should receive the same forwarding treatment (e.g, in terms of scheduling, admission threshold, etc)
> NOTE: The majority of the QCI and 5QI are the same, with very few exceptions of identifiers
being defined in one case but not in the other (e.g., QCI 75 or 5QI 10). TNEs in the transport network use DSCP or MPLS traffic class markings in the IP/MPLS header to determine QoS packet handling. To keep consistency of QoS treatment between the overlay mobile service and the underlay packet-based switching networks it is interesting to look at the different standard QCI and 5QI in qualitative terms to understand how distinct kind of flows (or bearers) at the mobile overlay level could be grouped together and treated on the underlay packet transport network. This equates to how different QCIs and QFIs could be mapped to DSCP markings on the 5G mobile components (RUs, DUs, CUs) and how these DSCPs are mapped to Diffserv Per Hop

# 26 Behaviour (PHB) in the transport network.
Figure 26-15 plots the standardized QCIs and 5QIs in relation to the defined packet loss and delay characteristics (Note, the figure is not to scale). Each box in the plot firstly contains the 5QI or QCI (top part) complemented with the values for delay / packet loss (at the bottom). To distinguish profiles, that are GBR, non-GBR or delay-critical GBR, a color code is used which is indicated in the legend of the figure (note that delay-critical GBR 5QI in 5G are simply GBR QCI in LTE). ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 Figure 26-15: 5QI and QCI plot in relation to packet loss and delay The plot identifies 5QI or QCI values with common QoS flow characteristics. It is now possible to 26-16 presents a set of exemplary groupings, in which the 5QI/QCI are categorized into four distinct groups: group 1 consists of QoS flows requiring low delay, e.g., < 30 ms; group 2 consists QoS flows which are in the delay range between 50 and 75 ms; group 3 consists of the rest of GBR 5QI/QCI; while finally group 4, as default group, aggregates the rest 5QI/QCI of non-GBR profile.

# 12 Figure 26-16: Exemplary 5QI and QCI grouping
Using the above example, a transport QoS architecture is illustrated in the next section that supports a set of transport core PHBs capable of supporting existing services, new 5G services, 5G fronthaul and protecting the infrastructure needed to deliver timing, OAM and the transport routing protocols. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 This annex makes no recommendations on QFI to DSCP mapping that needs to occur on the Midhaul (starting from O-RAN slicing phase 2) and Backhaul (starting from O-RAN slicing phase 1) mobile components, as there are huge variations between operators on their usage of DSCP markings. Viable approaches include:
- A dedicated DSCP marking for some 5QI / QFI value.
- Group 5QI and QFI values, for example as shown above, and allocate all 5QIs and QFIs in
the group the same DSCP value.

# 8 • A combination of the two.
Regardless of the edge marking scheme chosen, the most important action occurs on the ingress TNE which needs to map the edge DSCP marking to the appropriate transport core marking (MPLS TC for MPLS underlays and DSCP for SRv6 underlays) to ensure the appropriate PHB in the core of the transport network. Transport QoS Architecture for O-RAN slicing phase 1, 2 and 3 To ensure that Service Level Objectives (SLOs) requested for a particular slice are maintained, appropriate QoS scheme must be deployed in the transport network. The details of QoS functionality are provided in Annex D: Quality of Service. This section provides guidelines about particular use of the QoS concepts discussed in that annex to deploy the QoS architecture suitable for providing SLO guarantees for transport network slices. As outlined in Figure 26-17, the QoS model for transport network slicing has following major building blocks:
- Ingress (input) policing (rate limiting) at the edge of the transport domain
- Mapping function at the edge of the transport domain to map potentially large number of
edge traffic classes, as described earlier, into finite (typically 4 to 8) traffic classes used in the transport core
- Flat egress (output) scheduling (queuing) on the transport network transit links in the
transport core with typically 4 to 8 traffic classes
- Egress (output) scheduling (queuing) at the edge – optionally hierarchical
> NOTE: Figure 26-17 is an example figure and for simplicity shows the traffic in one direction only
(from UPF on the left-hand side to O-CU-UP on the right-hand side). However, traffic is typically bidirectional (for example UPF → O-CU-UP and O-CU-UP → UPF), therefore the building blocks mentioned earlier are deployed in opposite direction, too. Thus, all transport transit interfaces (transport core) should have flat egress (output) scheduling (queuing) deployed, whereas all transport edge interfaces would have input policing and potentially hierarchical output scheduling (queuing) deployed. Also, the figure shows only one type of interface (backhaul), in accordance with O-RAN slicing phase 1 requirements. Similar QoS concepts apply to other sliced interfaces, for example midhaul, starting from O-RAN slicing phase 2. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 6 Edge QoS
When the slice is created, mechanisms required to implement the slice in the transport network are deployed on the Transport Network Equipments (TNEs). An important building block is edge QoS to condition slice traffic at the transport edge and ensure that slice traffic does not exceed the previously requested and agreed bandwidth values.

# 11 Ingress policing
Ingress policing (rate limiting) is used to police (rate limit) the traffic of a particular slice when the traffic enters the transport network domain. This slice admission control function is required to ensure, that only traffic contracted by given slice at the time of slice creation (or at the time of last slice modification) is accepted with SLO guarantees.
> NOTE: In the deployments where there is no expectation from the transport network to provide
SLO guarantees (delay, jitter, bandwidth, no traffic interference between different slices, etc.) ingress policing might be omitted. Depending on the actual slice QoS profile requested at the slice creation/modification, out-of- contract traffic is either completely dropped at the transport network edge (if requested slice guaranteed rate and maximum rate are equal, or maximum guaranteed rate is missing in the request), or, if slice guaranteed rate is not equal to slice maximum rate, slice traffic is handled at the edge in following way:
- Slice traffic under guaranteed rate: unconditionally accepted at the transport edge
S lic e 1 (V S lic e 2 (V S lic e 3 (V S lic e 4 (V S lic e 5 (V S lic e 6 (V tra n s p o r t e d g s lic e - a w a re in g r e s s p o lic in

# L A N 1 )

# L A N 2 )

# L A N 3 )

# L A N 4 )

# L A N 5 )

# L A N 6 )

# D C -X E d g

# U P F VRF-1

# U P F VRF-2

# U P F VRF-3

# U P F VRF-4

# U P F VRF-5

# U P F VRF-6
de e dnemm g ocer e d g e to c la s s m a e T N E c o p p re in g T ra tra n s p o rt c o r e n o n s lic e - a w a re (fla t) e g re s s s c h e d u lin g Transport C ore Traffic C lass 1 Transport C ore Traffic C lass 2 Transport C ore Traffic C lass 3 Transport C ore Traffic C lass 4 Transport C ore Traffic C lass 5 Transport C ore Traffic C lass 6 Transport C ore Traffic C lass 7 Transport C ore Traffic C lass 8 n s p o rt N e tw o rk D o m a in tra ffic flo w d ire c tio n E d (h g tr a n s p o rt e d g e s lic e - a w a re ie r a rc h ic a l) e g re s s s c h S lic e 1 (V L A N 1 ) S lic e 2 (V L A N 2 ) S lic e 3 (V L A N 3 ) S lic e 4 (V L A N 4 ) S lic e 5 (V L A N 5 ) S lic e 6 (V L A N 6 )

# D C - Y e T N E

# O -C U -U VRF-1

# O -C U -U VRF-2

# O -C U -U VRF-3

# O -C U -U VRF-4

# O -C U -U VRF-5

# O -C U -U VRF-6
e P P P P P P d u lanoit lin g po S lic e 1 (M B B B a c k h a u l: N 3 / M 9 ) S lic e 2 (m M T C B a c k h a u l: N 3 / N 9 ) S lic e 3 (N B -IO T B a c k h a u l: N 3 / N 9 ) S lic e 4 (a n o th e r s lic e ) S lic e 5 (a n o th e r s lic e ) S lic e 6 (a n o th e r s lic e ) ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00
- Slice traffic above guaranteed rate and below maximum rate: conditionally accepted at the
transport edge. Such traffic is marked at the transport edge with QoS marking (DSCP or MPLS Traffic Class bits) representing high drop probability. Using Class based Weighted Random Early Discard (CBWRED) functionality, described in Annex D: Quality of Service , and implemented on transit Transport Network Equipments, when the transit links are nearing the congestion (transmit queues on transit links are building up) CBWRED kicks in, and starts to drop packets marked with QoS marking representing high drop probability. Thus, when no congestion is observed in the transport network, slice traffic can go up to the contracted value (no drop at the transport edge for traffic volumes below slice maximum rate), but when congestion is close, high drop probability packets (above guaranteed rate but below maximum rate) are being dropped at transit. This ingress marking behaviour at the transport edge can be implemented with 2-rate 3-color policer.
- Slice traffic above maximum rate (or above guaranteed rate, if maximum rate is not
specified during slice creation/modification): unconditionally dropped at the transport edge. This behaviour can be implemented with 1-rate policer (when slice guaranteed rate equals to maximum rate), or 2-rate 3-color policer (when different guaranteed and maximum rates are specified for the slice) There could be many reasons for misbehaving (send traffic above the contracted rates) slices, like for example:
- Underestimate for slice traffic volume during slice creation (or slice modification) events
- Some failure within the slice, causing extra traffic generation
- Denial of Service (DoS) attack started from within the slice
With slice admission control, implemented via ingress policing (rate limiting), it can be ensured that only legitimate in-contract slice traffic is allowed at the transport edge, thus slices that are sending traffic above the agreed rate do not negatively impact other slices. This provides traffic isolation guarantees between the different slices.
> NOTE: In O-RAN slicing phase 1, only per slice SLO parameters might be specified. There is no
granular per class (per 5QI) SLO parametrization within each slice in phase 1. Therefore, in phase 1 of network slicing single policer (1-rate or 2-rate-3-color) per slice might be sufficient for slice admission control implementation. O-RAN slicing phase 2 introduces slices with multiple traffic classes (multiple 5QIs) within a single slice, like for example MBB with IPTV. Therefore, starting from slicing phase 2, more individual policers, or even hierarchical policers, might be introduced to implement slice admission control.

# 42 Ingress Edge to core traffic class mapping
As described earlier multiple 5QIs, resulting in multiple DSCP markings, are potentially being used at the edge of the transport domain in the deployments. Transport core typically uses flat QoS model with up to 8 traffic classes. Therefore, mapping function to map multiple transport edge classes (represented by multiple 5QI/DSCP values) to limited set of transport core classes is implemented on the edge Transport Network Equipment as outlined in Figure 26-18. ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 Figure 26-18: Transport edge to transport core QoS mapping In case of MPLS encapsulation in transport core, the result of this transport edge to transport core class mapping is setting the Traffic Class (TC) field in outer MPLS label. If SRv6 is used as the encapsulation mechanism, DSCP field in the outer IPv6 header carries the transport core class marking, while DSCP field in the inner IPv4/IPv6 header, similarly to MPLS encapsulation, carried transport edge class marking. Transport Network Equipments (TNEs) associate transport core class markings, carried either in outer MPLS header TC field, or in outer IPv6 header DSCP field, with QoS output queues and execute appropriate scheduling mechanism to implement desired traffic prioritization during link congestion events.

# 16 Egress (hierarchical) scheduling
On the egress side of transport edge, egress scheduling is implemented to provide desired traffic prioritization among the slices, as well as among traffic classes within each slice. Depending on the hardware capabilities of the edge Transport Network Equipment, as well as the intended granularity (more “soft” or more “hard”) of the enforcement, one of the following option can be used:
- flat, non-hierarchical QoS model with up to 8 queues (similar to transport core QoS model)
- hierarchical, slice-aware QoS model with separate set of queues per each slice
As described in the Annex D: Quality of Service , the hierarchical QoS scheduler model allows for a “hard” distribution of the bandwidth on an interface amongst the slices sharing that interface capacity, protecting the use of the bandwidth for a given slice from the other slices on the same interface. tra n s p o r t e d g e in g r e s s p o lic in g & c la s s ific a tio n S lic e 1 (V L A N 1 ) S lic e 2 (V L A N 2 ) S lic e 3 (V L A N 3 ) S lic e 4 (V L A N 4 ) S lic e 5 (V L A N 5 ) S lic e 6 (V L A N 6 ) à E d g e C o r e m slic e id e n tific a tio n a t th e tra n sp o rt e d g e h e a d e r re m o v e d

# E T H h e ad e r

# V LA N P C P
IP h e a d e r tra n sp o rt

# D S C P e d g e Q o S
m a rk in g re ta in e d P a y lo a d F o r illu stra tio n p u rp a o tra n s p o rt c o r e (fla t) e g re s s s c h e d u lin g Transport C ore Traffic C lass 1 Transport C ore Traffic C lass 2 Transport C ore Traffic C lass 3 Transport C ore Traffic C lass 4 Transport C ore Traffic C lass 5 Transport C ore Traffic C lass 6 Transport C ore Traffic C lass 7 Transport C ore Traffic C lass 8 p p in g n e w h e a d e rs a d d e d E T H h e a d e r

# M P LS head er
lab e l T C tra n sp o rt

# M P LS head er c o re Q o S
lab e l T C m a rk in g IP h e a d e r

# D S C P
P a y lo a d se s o n ly ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00

# 7 5G slices creation/modification/deletion events.
The goal of transport core QoS is to ensure right prioritization of transport core traffic classes during congestion events caused by network failures and subsequent traffic rerouting, so that during such congestion events traffic classes requiring low latency are using priority forwarding, and traffic classes requiring low drop are not dropped. The goal of transport core QoS is not end-to-end bandwidth management or providing granular guarantees per each 5G slice. Table 9 contains a list of typical flows that can be observed in the multiclass transport network used to transport 5G flows as well, taking into considerations exemplary 5QI/QCI grouping described earlier in this annex. When recommending appropriate transport core QoS model, overall QoS policies for all flows must be taken into consideration. Packet size Per-hop latency Per-hop PDV Traffic type (order of magnitude) (order of magnitude) 1) (order of magnitude) 1) PTP (unaware mode)2) ~100 bytes constant average ~0.5 µs3) CPRI (RoE) ~1500 bytes ~1-20 µs ~1-20 µs eCPRI CU-plane ~1500 bytes ~1-20 µs ~1-20 µs OAM with aggressive timers ~100 bytes ~1 ms ~1 ms 5QI/QCI Group 1 (low latency U-plane) variable ~1 ms ~1 ms Low latency business traffic variable ~1 ms ~1 ms Network Control: OAM with relaxed timers, IGP, BGP, LDP, RSVP, PTP aware mode variable ~5 ms ~1-3 ms (T-TC/T-BC)4) O-RAN/3GPP C-plane and M-plane5) variable ~5 ms ~1-3 ms 5QI/QCI Group 2 (medium latency U-plane) variable ~5 ms ~1-3 ms 5QI/QCI Group 3 (remaining GBR U-plane) variable ~10 ms ~5 ms Guaranteed business traffic variable ~10 ms ~5 ms 5QI/QCI Group 4 (remaining non-GBR U- plane) variable ~10-50 ms ~5-25 ms Other traffic types (best effort) Table 9: Different flows per-hop latency/PDV (order of magnitude) Note 1: Per-hop latency includes all latency contributors, like frame transmission delay, self-queueing delay, queuing delay, store-and-forward delay, as described in section 10.1.1.2.1. Exact per-hop requirements depend on the overall network budget, number of hops, budget allocated to fibers, etc. The table intends to emphasize only relative order of magnitude for per-hop latency/PDV to illustrate the process of assigning traffic to QoS queues. Note 2: PTP unaware mode (i.e., router transiting G.8275.2 PTP stream, without T-TC function on the router that could add timestamps to transit PTP packets) → strict-priority queue is required to ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 minimize jitter (actual latency value is not relevant, but its average should be constant). Minimizing the latency via strict-priority queue minimizes jitter as well. Note 3: Max|TE| accumulated across the network must be ≤1.1 µs. Note 4: T-BC/T-TC (both G.8275.1 and G.8275.2) with physical layer time stamping → guaranteed bandwidth queue is OK, strict-priority queue is not required, since jitter/PDV will be accounted by physical layer timestamps in PTP packet. Also, latency value is not relevant, but average latency should be constant. QoS should ensure that PTP packets are not dropped during congestion, and guaranteed bandwidth queue is sufficient for that. Note 5: O-RAN/3GPP C-plane and M-plane kept in separate queue to ensure minimum bandwidth guarantees during congestion events preventing failures of these planes, as well as to increase security and separation of these planes. There are variety of QoS models, depending on the hardware support available on Transport Network Equipment platform. It is out of scope for this document to discuss all the various QoS models supported by different hardware platforms of Transport Network Equipments. However, for illustration purposes, two major, most common QoS models are worth to mention: with single priority queue, and with multiple priority queues. Figure 26-19: Example of QoS model with single priority queue Figure 26-19 outlines an example QoS model with a single priority queue. In this hardware model, all flows with ultra-low latency/PDV sensitivity (PTP unaware mode, CPRI/RoE, eCPRI CU-plane) must be placed in this priority queue, while other flows should be distributed among remaining bandwidth queues. Bandwidth queue used for flows with low (but not ultra-low) latency/PDV sensitivity (OAM with aggressive timers, latency sensitive U-plane and business traffic) should be parametrized with relatively high weight used in WFQ/WRR/WDRR/MDRR (Weighted Fair IG P C O (lo w , B G

# P R I (R o E ), e C P R I C U -P , P T P u n a w a re m o d e

# A M w ith a g g re s s iv e tim e rs , 5 Q I/Q C I G r o u p 1
la te n c y U -p la n e ), lo w la te n c y b u s in e s s tra ffic N e tw o rk C o n tro l: O A M w ith re la x e d tim e rs ,

# P , L D P , R S V P , e C P R I S -P , P T P (T -T C /T -B C )
P B B B B B B B Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q W W W W W e e e e e ig ig ig ig ig h h h h h t t t t t P P P P P P P P

# P IR
s ta

# I R

# I R

# I R

# I R

# I R

# I R

# I R

# I R
m rv in ag n d o a to f re ry m à a in P to a v o id in g q u e u o r t e s al n o p it o R PI

# 5 Q
I/Q O (e .g . e C

# Q I/Q C I G

# Q I/Q C I G

# C I G r o u
O th -R A

# P R
r o u r o u p 4 e r b

# N /3 G P P C -p la n e a n d M -p la n e

# I M -p la n e , o th e r m a n a g e m e n t)
p 2 (m e d iu m la te n c y U -p la n e ) p 3 (re m a in in g G B R U -p la n e ), g u a ra n te e d b u s in e s s tra ffic s p a re (re m a in in g n o n -G B R U -p la n e ) e s t e ffo rt (m a y b e g u a ra n te e d ) S c h e d u le r p a ra m e te rs g n u il d e h c S R R

# D M R/
R D W R/ R W Q/ F W o rd Ve e ry r to h a ig h w e v o id q ig u e hu t (B e c Wo n og ve es Q r-d tio n u e im e n s io , a n d th u e b u ffe n in g ) to e n s u re fre q u s to k e e p q u e u e la W e ig h t W e ig h t r s iz e a lig n e d to m a u e n te n x im t e n q u e u c y to m in u m la te n in g in im u m c y re q u ire m e n ts ORAN-WG9.XPSAAS.0-R003-v09.00 Queueing, Weighted Round Robin, Weighted Deficit Round Robin. Modified Deficit Round Robin) scheduling algorithms, so that this queue is serviced very frequently, to avoid queue congestion and to minimize latency/PDV. With high weight parameterization this queue behaves almost as priority queue. To avoid starvation of the remaining queues during congestion events, priority queue, as well as highly over dimensioned bandwidth queue must have a policer or shaper to limit the rate (PIR – Peak Information Rate) of the queue. Queue buffer sizes in both cases must be aligned to maximum latency requirements of the traffic assigned to the queue. Figure 26-20: Example of QoS model with multiple priority queues Figure 26-20 outlines an example of queue assignment on hardware platforms supporting multiple priority queues, dequeued in strict priority order. With multiple priority queues available it is recommended to place PTP packets in unaware mode in the highest priority queue, to minimize the PDV of these packets to the highest possible degree. Putting these packets above CPRI(RoE) or eCPRI has only minimal influence on CPRI/eCPRI packets PDV, since PTP packets are very small (~100 bytes). For example, serialization delay of such small packet on 10 GE interface is only 80 ns, so PDV factor contributing to CPRI/eCPRI PDV is very small as well and can be easily handled by the CPRI/eCPRI reassembly functions. IG P O (lo w , B G

# 5 Q

# P T P u n a w a re m o d e

# C P R I (R o E ), e C P R I C U -P

# A M w ith a g g re s s iv e tim e rs , 5 Q I/Q C I G r o u p 1
la te n c y U -p la n e ), lo w la te n c y b u s in e s s tra ffic N e tw o rk C o n tro l: O A M w ith re la x e d tim e rs ,

# P , L D P , R S V P , e C P R I S -P , P T P (T -T C /T -B C )

# O -R A N /3 G P P C -p la n e a n d M -p la n e
(e .g . e C P R I M -p la n e , o th e r m a n a g e m e n t)

# Q I/Q C I G r o u p 2 (m e d iu m la te n c y U -p la n e )

# Q I/Q C I G r o u p 3 (re m a in in g G B R U -p la n e ),
g u a ra n te e d b u s in e s s tra ffic I/Q C I G r o u p 4 (re m a in in g n o n -G B R U -p la n e ) o th e r b e s t e ffo rt (m a y b e g u a ra n te e d ) Q u e u e P P P B B B B B b u S c h e Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q ffe r s iz d gniludehcS ytiroirP gniludehcS RRDM/RRDW/RRW/QFW e u a le r p a ra m W e ig h W e ig h W e ig h W e ig h W e ig h lig n e d to e t t t t t m te a rs yrotadnam RIP lanoitpo RIP x im P P P P P P P P u

# I R

# I R

# I R

# I R

# I R

# I R

# I R

# I R
m la te n c y re q u P ire m o e r t n ts


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG9.XTRP-MGT.0-R004-v10.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG9.XTRP-MGT.0-R004-v10.00 Technical Specification"
---

## C.1 Management and network models for correlation of Network Slicing in RAN and Core
Foreword This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by ETSI Technical Committee {ETSI Technical Committee|ETSI Project|<other>} <long techbody> (<short techbody>). Modal verbs terminology In the present document "shall", "shall not", "should", "should not", "may", "need not", "will", "will not", "can" and "cannot" are to be interpreted as described in clause 3.2 of the ETSI Drafting Rules (Verbal forms for the expression of provisions). "must" and "must not" are NOT allowed in ETSI deliverables except when used in direct citation.

### E.3.1 Transport energy optimization through O-RU Rehoming (RMI)

### E.3.2 Operational closed-loop lifecycle for TNM (TEF)
The following items are not covered and may be addressed in phase 11:
- Future phases of O-RAN slicing support.

# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations

## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms apply: void

## 3.2 Symbols
None

## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given apply. Abbreviations defined in this document take precedence over the definition of 3GPP. AF Application Function AMF Access and Mobility Management Function AN Access Node ARP Address Resolution Protocol BBU Baseband Unit BH Backhaul BiDi Bidirectional BS Base Station BW Bandwidth CAPEX Capital Expense CBS Committed Burst Size CFP Common Form factor Pluggable CIR Committed Information Rate CN Core Network CoMP Cooperative Multipoint CP Control Plane CPRI Common Public Radio Interface CU Central Unit DC Data Center DL Downlink DN Data Network DHCP Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol DSCP Differentiated Services Codepoint DU Distributed Unit eCPRI evolved Common Public Radio Interface eMBB enhanced Mobile Broadband eNB Enhanced NodeB EP Ethernet Private EPC Enhanced Packet Core EPL Ethernet Private Line EVP Ethernet Virtual Private EVPL Ethernet Virtual Private Line FDD Frequency Division Duplexed FFO Fractional Frequency Offset FFS For Further Study FH Fronthaul FLR Frame Loss Ratio FM/PM Fault and Performance management FR1 Frequency Range 1 FR2 Frequency Range 2 FTTH Fiber To The Home gNB gNodeB gNMI Google Network Management Interface GNSS Global Navigation Satellite System GPRS General Packet Radio Service GTP GPRS Tunnelling Protocol ICMP Internet Control Message Protocol IoT Internet of Things IP Internet Protocol IQ Inphase Quadrature ITU-T International Telecom Union-Telecom LAN Local Area Network LTE Long Term Evolution MAC Medium Access Layer MPLS Multi Protocol Label Switching MIMO Multiple Inputs Multiple Outputs MNO Mobile Network Operator NGMN Next Generation Mobile Network NR New Radio NSA Non-Stand Alone NSSI Subnet Networking Slices Instance OAM Operation Administration Maintenance O-CU O-RAN Central Unit O-DU O-RAN Distributed Unit OPEX Operation Expense ORU O-RAN Radio Unit PCF Policy Control Function PDCP Packet Data Convergence Protocol PRTC Primary Reference Telecom Clock PTP Precision Time Protocol OFDM Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing QAM Quadrature Amplitude Modulation QoS Quality of Service QSFP Quad SFP RB Resource Block ROADM Reconfigurable Optical Add Drop Multiplexer RRH Remote Radio Head RU Radio Unit SCTP Stream Control Transmission Protocol SDN Software Defined Networking SFF Small Form Factor SFP Small Form factor Pluggable SLA Service Level Agreement T-BC Telecom Boundary Clock TDD Time Division Duplexing TE Time Error T-GM Telecom Ground Master TN Transport Network TNE Transport Network Equipment TNM Transport Network Manager TNMI Transport Network Management Interface T-TSC Telecom Time Slave Clock TX Transmit UDP User Datagram Protocol UE User equipment UL Uplink UNI Universal Network Interface UPF User Plane Function VPN Virtual Private Network

# 4 Modelling Schema
The following gives requirements for Modelling Schemas. For Modelling Schema implementations,
- models shall use YANG RFC 7950 [1] as schema.
- models should be under open-source license.
- models shall have modular structure with clearly defined augmentation mechanism.
- models selected shall be independent of specific supplier attributes.
- vendor specific augmentations shall be temporary only, where temporary is defined here as less than
one year.
- models should support backwards compatibility and future proof enhancement solution.

# 5 Device Communication Protocols
This section defines the communication Protocols for Configuration management, Fault and Performance management and lifecycle management.

## 5.1 Configuration Management
Configuration management (CM) shall use YANG schema in conjunction with NETCONF protocol (RFC6241 [2]). Security for NETCONF may either be configured over SSH [3] or TLS [4]. See [5] for additional security requirements for NETCONF. Configuration management
- shall support NETCONF over SSH, according to [5], subsection 2.1.
- should support NETCONF over TLS.
- if NETCONF over TLS is supported, TLS shall be supported according to [5]

## 5.2 Fault and Performance management
The following section gives requirements for various transport mechanisms, for Fault and Performance management (FM/PM) models and protocols. One option is to use NETCONF also for FM/PM, which has the advantage of only having to implement a single protocol on a network element. Another popular method for retrieving PM/FM is streaming telemetry. The most widely used protocol there is OpenConfig’s streaming telemetry using the gNMI protocol [6]. Another emerging standard is streaming using VES (VNF event streaming), defined by OPNFV and ONAP [7], which is already used in O-RAN. Fault and performance management:
- Fault management shall support either NETCONF, gNMI or VES streaming.
- Performance management shall support either NETCONF, gNMI or VES streaming.

## 5.3 Life cycle management
Life cycle management:
- Model shall support life cycle management functions, supported with a single NETCONF interface.
- The model should support full-service lifecycle as specified in the ONAP Architecture, ITU G8052.1
or the MEF 22.3.1 Transport Service Orchestration and Lifecycle Service Orchestration Framework.


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG9.XTRP-REQ-v01.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG9.XTRP-REQ-v01.00 Technical Specification"
---

# 3 Scope
This document defines the requirements for an Open Xhaul transport infrastructure. As far as possible it tries to make no assumptions about the underlying transport technology, rather define a set of requirements about the overall capabilities of an Open Xhaul transport infrastructure that can support different 5G services, different radio architectures and is multi-service in nature. This document refers to 5G services, but the transport requirements also apply to O-RAN networks deploying 4G services. Following introductory sections 1 through 5, section 6 concentrates on a general description of Open Xhaul transport and high-level requirements. The next three sections concentrate on the transport networking requirements needed to support the different radio architectures identified in 5G, namely, Fronthaul, Midhaul and Backhaul. The aim is to provide the reader specific information about the transport infrastructure in order to support different radio splits. Section 11 provides requirement for ease of operability of transport networks. The last two main sections revolve around requirements for synchronization and legacy services. This document uses information published by O-RAN, 3GPP, IEEE, ITU-T, IETF, CableLabs, NGMN and several other relevant standard bodies and industry associations. It contains educational, informative, and normative content.

# 20 What is not covered in this document:
- As stated above, the document makes no assumption about transport technologies to be used.
Technology specific architectural considerations shall be covered in other -possibly WG9- documents and will be referenced in this document as soon as published. Examples include DOCSIS, PON, WDM, Ethernet/IP based implementations, as well as, architectures that may deploy Fronthaul gateways, Fronthaul muxes or other types of CPRI/eCPRI aggregation technologies.
- The document doesn’t cover the synchronization architectural options. These aspects will be
covered in an upcoming WG9 Synchronization Solution document.
- Finally, this document provides no requirements on synchronization requirements at an O-RU
output. They are stated in WG4 CUS Specification document [74]. Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V.

# 4 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this text, constitute provisions of the present document.
- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition number, version
number, etc.) or non-specific.
- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a reference to a 3GPP
document (including a GSM document), a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document in Release 15. [1] 3GPP TS 38.472 V15.5.0: " F1 signalling transport (Release 15)". [2] IEEE 802.1Q-2018: “IEEE Standard for Local and metropolitan area networks—

# 13 Bridges and Bridged Networks”
[3] IETF RFC 2474: “Definition of the Differentiated Services Field (DS Field) in the IPv4 and IPv6 Headers” [4] IETF RFC 2598: “An Expedited Forwarding PHB” [5] IETF RFC 2597: “Assured Forwarding PHB Group” [6] IETF RFC 4594: “Configuration Guidelines for DiffServ Service Classes” [7] IETF RFC 826: “An Ethernet Address Resolution Protocol -- or -- Converting

# 20 Network Protocol Addresses”
[8] IETF RFC 792: “INTERNET CONTROL MESSAGE PROTOCOL” [9] IETF RFC 8200: “Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6) Specification” [10] IETF RFC 4861: “Neighbor Discovery for IP version 6 (IPv6)” [11] IETF RFC 4443: “Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMPv6) for the Internet

# 25 Protocol Version 6 (IPv6) Specification”
[12] IETF RFC 6890: “Special-Purpose IP Address Registries” [13] IETF RFC 8190: “Updates to the Special-Purpose IP Address Registries” [14] IETF RFC 2131: “Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol” [15] IETF RFC 4361: “Node-specific Client Identifiers for Dynamic Host

# 30 Configuration Protocol Version Four (DHCPv4)”
[16] IETF RFC3315: “Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol for IPv6 (DHCPv6)” [17] IETF RFC4862: “IPv6 Stateless Address Autoconfiguration” [18] IETF RFC768: “User Datagram Protocol” [19] 3GPP TS 29.060 V15.0.0: “GPRS Tunnelling Protocol (GTP) across the Gn and

# 35 Gp interface (Release 15)”
[20] 3GPP TS 29.274 V16.1.0: “GPRS Tunnelling Protocol (GTP) across the Gn and

# 37 Gp interface (Release 15)”
[21] 3GPP TS 36.422 version 15.1.0: “X2 signalling transport (Release 15)” [22] 3GPP TS 36.424 version 15.0.0: “X2 data transport (Release 15)” [23] 3GPP TS 38.474 V15.3.0: " F1 data transport (Release 15)". [24] 3GPP TS 33.117 V16.2.0: “Catalogue of general security assurance requirements

# 42 (Release 16)”
[25] IETF RFC 2119: “Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels” [26] IEEE 802.3-2018: “IEEE Standard for Ethernet” [27] IETF RFC 791: “INTERNET PROTOCOL” [28] IETF RFC 1918: “Address Allocation for Private Internets” [29] IETF RFC 5357: “A Two-Way Active Measurement Protocol (TWAMP)” [30] IETF RFC 4656: “A One-way Active Measurement Protocol (OWAMP)” Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. [31] ITU-T G.8013/Y.1731(08/2015): “Operation, administration and maintenance

# 5 Protocol User Plane (GTPv1-U) (Release 15)”
[34] IETF RFC 1034: “DOMAIN NAMES - CONCEPTS AND FACILITIES” [35] IETF RFC 1035: “DOMAIN NAMES - IMPLEMENTATION AND

# 8 SPECIFICATION”
[36] IETF RFC 4210: “Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certificate

# 10 Management Protocol (CMP)”
[37] IETF RFC 6083: “Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS) for Stream Control

# 12 Transmission Protocol (SCTP)”
[38] 3GPP TE 33.501 V15.6.0: “Security architecture and procedures for 5G system

# 14 (Release 15)”
[39] IETF RFC 4301: “Security Architecture for the Internet Protocol” [40] 3GPP TS 33.210 V16.2.0: “Network Domain Security (NDS); IP network layer security (Release 16)” [41] 3GPP TS 33.310 V16.2.0: “Network Domain Security (NDS); Authentication

# 19 Framework (AF) (Release 16)”
[42] 3GPP TS 33.401 V16.0.0: “3GPP System Architecture Evolution (SAE); Security architecture (Release 15)” [43] 3GPP TR 33.821 V9.0.0: “Rationale and track of security decisions in Long Term Evolved (LTE) RAN / 3GPP System Architecture Evolution (SAE) (Release 9)” [44] IETF RFC 4303: “IP Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP)” [45] IETF RFC 8221: “Cryptographic Algorithm Implementation Requirements and Usage Guidance for Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP) and Authentication

# 27 Header (AH)”
[46] IETF RFC 7296: “Internet Key Exchange Protocol Version 2 (IKEv2)” [47] ETSI GS NFV-INF 005 V1.1.1 (2014-12): Network Functions Virtualisation

# 30 (NFV); Infrastructure; Network Domain
[48] 3GPP TS 38.462 V15.5.0: “E1 signalling transport (Release 15)” [49] MEF 22.3: “Transport Services for Mobile Networks, January 2018” [50] 3GPP TS 29.303 V16.0.0: “Domain Name System Procedures; Stage 3 (Release

# 34 16)”
[51] eCPRI Transport Requirements V1.2, Common Public Radio Interface: Requirements for the eCPRI Transport Network, June 25, 2018. [52] IEEE 802.1CMde: Time-Sensitive Networking for Fronthaul Amendment:

# 38 Enhancements to Fronthaul Profiles to Synchronization, and Syntonization
Standards Networking for Fronthaul, —Support New Fronthaul Interface, July 26, 2019 [53] IEEE 1914.1TM D3.0, Draft Fronthaul Transport Networks, November 2018. [54] 3GPP TS 38.422 version 15.0.0 Release 15: Xn general aspects and principles [55] GSMA:”5G Implementation Guidelines: NSA Options” [56] NGMN: “NGMN Overview on 5G functional decomposition” [57] ITU-T GSTR-TN5G: “Transport Network support of IMT-2020-TG” [58] 3GPP 38.401: “NG-RAN; Architectural description” [59] O-RAN: “WG-4 Inter-Operability Testing” [60] O-RAN Open F1/W1/E1/X2/Xn Interfaces Working Group “Transport

# 49 Specification”
Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. [61] NGMN “5G RAN CU-DU network architecture, transport options and dimensioning, version 1.0 12 April 2019)” [62] 5G Transport Slice Connectivity Interface – draft-rokui-5g-transport-slice-00 [63] 3GPP R3-162102 TSG-RAN Working Group 3 Meeting #93-bis CU-DU split: Refinement for Annex A (Transport network and RAN internal functional split) ” [64] 3GPP TS 38.101: “NR, User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception [65] 3GPP TS 38.300: “NR Overall description” [66] GSMA: “5G Implementation Guidelines v2” [67] 3GPP TS 23.501 v6.4.0(2020-03): “System Architecture for 5G” [68] MEF 61.1: “IP Service attributes” [69] MEF 10.3: “Ethernet Service attributes” [70] MEF 6.2: “EVC service definition” [71] 3GPP TS38.306: “NR; User equipment (UE) radio access capabilities” [72] NGMN “Guidelines for LTE Backhaul estimations” [73] ITU-R M.2083: “IMT Vision – framework and overall objectives of the future development of IMT for 2020 and beyond”. [74] O-RAN Fronthaul Working Group, “Control, User and Synchronization Plane Specification”, v03.00 (04/2020) [75] 3GPP TS36.104, version 16.4.0, 01/2020, “Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) Base Station (BS) and radio transmission and reception”. [76] 3GPP TS38.104, version 16.2.0, 01/2020, “NR Base Station (BS) and radio transmission and reception”. [77] ITU-T G.8271.1, 03/2020, “Network limits for time synchronization in packet networks with full timing support from the network” [78] ITU-T G.8272 Amendment 1, 03/2020, “Timing characteristics of primary reference time clocks” [79] ITU-T G.8272.1, Amendment 2, 08/2019, “Timing characteristics of enhanced primary reference time clocks” [80] ITU-T G.8275.1, 03/2020, “Precision time protocol telecom profile for phase/time synchronization with full timing support from the network “ [81] ITU-T G.8273.2 Amendment, 03/2020, “Timing characteristics of telecom boundary clocks and telecom time slave clocks” [82] ITU-T G.8272/Y.1367, 11/2018. “Timing characteristics of primary reference time clocks” [83] 3GPP TS38.801, version 14.0.0, 03/2017, “Study on new radio access technology: Radio access architecture and interfaces” [84] NGMN “Overview on 5G RAN function decomposition” [85] 3GPP TR22.804 v16.2.0 (2018-12), “Study on communications for automation in vertical domains” Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V.

# 5 Definitions and abbreviations

## 5.1 Definitions
The key words "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in IETF RFC 2119 [25]. All key words must be in upper case, bold text. Items that are REQUIRED (contain the words SHALL or SHALL NOT) will be labelled as [Rx] for required. Items that are RECOMMENDED (contain the words SHOULD or SHOULD NOT) will be labelled as [Dx] for desirable. Items that are OPTIONAL (contain the words MAY or

# 9 OPTIONAL) will be labelled as [Ox] for optional.
Items, if supported, are not meant to be active at all times, but should be available for use. Their state (active or not active) should be based on configuration.

## 5.2 Abbreviations
Abbreviations defined in this document take precedence over the definition of 3GPP AF Application Function ITU-T International Telecom Union-Telecom AMF Access and Mobility Management LAN Local Area Network Function AN Access Node LLS Lower Layer Split ARP Address Resolution Protocol LTE Long Term Evolution ABW Antenna Bandwidth MAC Medium Access Layer BBU Baseband Unit MBSFN Multimedia Broadcast multicast service Single Frequency Network BH Backhaul MPLS Multi-Protocol Label Switching BiDi Bidirectional MIMO Multiple Inputs Multiple Outputs BS Base Station MNO Mobile Network Operator BW Bandwidth MRTD Maximum Receive Time Difference CAPEX Capital Expense NGMN Next Generation Mobile Network CBS Committed Burst Size NR New Radio CFP Common Form factor Pluggable NSA Non-Stand Alone CIR Committed Information Rate NSSI Subnet Networking Slices Instance CN Core Network OAM Operation Administration Maintenance CoMP Coordinated Multipoint O-CU O-RAN Central Unit CP Control Plane O-DU O-RAN Distributed Unit CPRI Common Public Radio Interface OPEX Operation Expense CU Central Unit O-RU O-RAN Radio Unit DC Data Center PCF Policy Control Function DL Downlink PDCP Packet Data Convergence Protocol DN Data Network ppb Parts per billion DHCP Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol PRB Physical Resource Block DSCP Differentiated Services Codepoint PRTC Primary Reference Telecom Clock dTEH Dynamic Time Error High PTP Precision Time Protocol dTEL Dynamic Time Error Low OFDM Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing DU Distributed Unit QAM Quadrature Amplitude Modulation eCPRI evolved Common Public Radio Interface QoS Quality of Service eMBB enhanced Mobile Broadband QSFP Quad SFP eNB Evolved NodeB RB Resource Block EP Ethernet Private RRH Remote Radio Head EPC Evolved Packet Core RU Radio Unit EPL Ethernet Private Line SCS Sub Carrier Spacing ePRC Enhanced Primary Reference Clock SCTP Stream Control Transmission Protocol ePRTC Enhanced Primary Reference Telecom SFF Small Form Factor Clock E-UTRA evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access SFP Small Form factor Pluggable Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. EVP Ethernet Virtual Private SLA Service Level Agreement EVPL Ethernet Virtual Private Line TAE Time Alignment Error FDD Frequency Division Duplex T-BC Telecom Boundary Clock FFO Fractional Frequency Offset TDD Time Division Duplex FFS For Further Study TE Time Error (in the context of synchronization) FH Fronthaul T-GM Telecom Ground Master FLR Frame Loss Ratio TN Transport Node FR1 Frequency Range 1 TNE Transport Network Equipment FR2 Frequency Range 2 T-TSC Telecom Time Slave Clock FTTH Fiber To The Home TX Transmit gNB gNodeB UDP User Datagram Protocol GNSS Global Navigation Satellite System UE User equipment GPRS General Packet Radio Service UL Uplink GTP GPRS Tunnelling Protocol UNI Universal Network Interface ICMP Internet Control Message Protocol UNI-C UNI-Customer edge IoT Internet of Things UPF User Plane Function IP Internet Protocol URLLC Ultra Reliable Low Latency Communication IQ In phase Quadrature VPN Virtual Private Network Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V.

# 6 Open Xhaul Transport infrastructure
This section provides a definition of Open Xhaul transport, some of the key characteristics and high-level requirements associated with Open Xhaul transport.

## 6.1 Xhaul transport network details
At the highest-level the Open Xhaul transport network provides the connectivity from the Radio Access Network (RAN) to the mobile packet core, which subsequently makes the connection to the application function. These could reside in a public network infrastructure, such as the Internet, a walled garden or a completely private network. For details of future developments envisaged in services / spectrum and timelines please see the “International Mobile Telecommunications (IMT) 2020 and beyond” [73].

# 12 Below are some of the key considerations

# 13 6.1.1 5G services and vertical markets
5G networks are expected to enable a new range of services that can be categorized in three classes:

# 16 - enhanced Mobile Broadband (eMBB)

# 17 - Ultra Reliable Low Latency Communications (URLLC)

# 18 - massive Machine Type Communications (mMTC)
These services will drive the need for new or enhanced classes of RAN and transport networks.

# 22 6.1.2 Network Scale and capacity
Whereas eMBB services demand more capacity in transport networks, URLLC applications will pose new challenges for the design of Xhaul networks in terms of low latency and increased reliability. Finally, mMTC necessitate a network that can efficiently manage huge number of devices such as intelligent devices in utility meters or house appliances.

# 27 6.1.3 5G RAN Architectures
As illustrated in Figure 1, in a traditional D-RAN (distributed RAN) architecture, the O-DU and O- CU are integrated as a BBU, collocated with the O-RU (Radio) at cell site. When evolving to the C- RAN (centralized RAN) architecture, the O-CU, which contains the higher layer of the RAN processing stacks, is centralized in a Hub. Depending on Operator’s deployment needs, the O-DU may remain at cell site, or be centralized. The Xhaul transport (Fronthaul, Midhaul, and Backhaul) serve as connections among the 3GPP RAN and core components. Transport Network Equipment (TNE) represents the transport functions necessary in Xhaul networks. Specifics of TE are outside of the scope of this document and will be covered in WG9 solution documents:

# 37 D-RAN:

# 38 (O-RU+O-DU+O-CU) Backhaul → (5GC)

# 40 C-RAN:

# 41 (O-RU) Fronthaul→ (O-DU+O-CU)  Backhaul → (5GC)
(O-RU) Fronthaul→ (O-DU)  Midhaul → (O-CU)  Backhaul → (5GC) Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V.

# 10 Figure 1: RAN reference architecture

# 15 6.1.4 Network DCs, MEC and NFV
Beyond the abovementioned evolution of wireless access networks with D-RAN and C-RAN, wireless operators started to take advantage of Network Function Virtualization NFV technologies to scale and control the CAPEX. Introduction of 5G creates new opportunities to use these technologies to scale functions and manage low latency in radio access networks.

# 21 6.1.5 Flexible Xhaul transport infrastructure
As outlined 5G defines different services and RAN architectures. Figure 2 is adapted from NGMN [56] and illustrates how different RAN components may be placed in different locations within the Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. same Mobile Network Operator’s (MNO) infrastructure to meet the delay and reliability requirements of a 5G service or vertical market. Figure 2: End to end Xhaul transport – adapted from text and diagrams in “NGMN:

# 8 Overview on 5G RAN Function Decomposition” [84]
Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. These different RAN deployment models impact on where the Fronthaul, Midhaul and Backhaul overlay the Xhaul transport infrastructure or even if they are all required. Beyond these deployment models, the choice of radio technology/spectrum can impact the architectural split. Low-/mid-/high band radios may require different choice of functional split or Fronthaul (CPRI/eCPRI) technology. The number of antenna ports/layers (spatial multiplexing) is another factor to be considered. Ideally the Xhaul transport infrastructure and its design need to be flexible enough to accommodate Backhaul, Midhaul and Fronthaul and even the N6 portions of the 5G infrastructure running in the same part of the physical infrastructure. There will be exceptions to this requirement, for example some MNOs may wish to treat the transport infrastructure supporting the Fronthaul in isolation to the Midhaul and Backhaul but given the similarities and potential overlap between Backhaul/Midhaul/N6 (GiLAN) the Xhaul transport infrastructure must be able to accommodate all these capabilities running in the same portion of the physical transport infrastructure.

# 14 6.1.6 Xhaul multi-service capability
NGMN identifies the need for X-haul transport to be multi-service capable. Depending on the type of service provider the following capabilities MAY need to be supported on the X-haul transport infrastructure:
- Non-stand Alone (NSA) and Stand-Alone deployment of 5G wireless services including
eMBB, mMTC and URLLC defined by 3GPP

# 20 - Mobile vertical market solutions

# 21 - Legacy 2G/3G/4G wireless services

# 22 - Enterprise services

# 23 - Residential broadband services

# 24 - Data center interconnection
This paper focuses on mobile deployment cases as listed in the first three bullets above.

## 6.2 Xhaul Functional Split
The introduction of 5G services necessitates a new look at the distribution of functions between 4G BBU and RRH (Figure 3). 4G BBU hosts the majority of functional elements with the exception of RF functions. Also known as option 8, CPRI technology provides a simple synchronous interface that allows for a low-cost design of the RRH. It also permits the introduction of advanced mobility functions such as carrier aggregation and CoMP. This simplicity comes at a cost; the CPRI interface transports time domain IQ data whose bandwidth is proportional to the bandwidth of the baseband signal and the number of antennas or more generally the number of spatial streams. Higher bandwidth and massive MIMO requirements of 5G cause an explosive growth of this interface option. A review of the functional split options (Figure 3) led to several new options (Options 1 through 7) that can be theoretically considered for solving the challenges raised by emerging 5G services. These options were ultimately narrowed down to three prominent options 2, 6 and 7. Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. High- Low- High- Low- High- RRC PDCP Low-PHY RF RLC RLC MAC MAC PHY Data Option 1 Option 2 Option 3 Option 4 Option 5 Option 6 Option 7 Option 8 High- Low- High- Low- High- RRC PDCP Low-PHY RF RLC RLC MAC MAC PHY Data

# 3 Figure 3: Functional Split Options [83]
Furthermore, the option 7 also presents different choices in terms of splitting the functions of the PHY layer such as options 7-1, 7-2x, and 7-3 for the Fronthaul interface. This document only focuses on option 7-2x (Figure 4) as the interface for open Fronthaul chosen by O-RAN. However, the document also considers the option 8 for the definition of Fronthaul transport requirement as this interface is widely used in 4G networks and will be presented in future networks not only for 4G services, but also as an option for carrying low bandwidth 5G services.

## 6.3 High-level Xhaul Transport requirements
[R1]: MUST support the mandatory transport capabilities outlined by WG5 in the “O-RAN Open

# 14 F1/W1/E1/X2/Xn Interfaces working group transport specification”. [60]
[R2]: MUST support the mandatory transport capabilities outlined by WG4 Open Fronthaul

# 16 Interfaces Workgroup [74].
[R3]: Mobile components reside in the WAN and the DC. It MUST be possible to build L2 and L3 services where mobile components reside in both domains [R4]: MAY need to be multiservice in nature. Refer to 6.1.6 for examples of the type of services that may need to be supported on the Xhaul transport network [R5]: SHOULD support flexible placement of front / mid / Backhaul / N6 on Xhaul transport. [R6]: MUST support flexible placement of Mid/Backhaul / N6 on Xhaul transport. [R7]: MUST support L2 and L3 Virtual Private Networks (VPNs). [R8]: MUST support multi-point VPNs. [R9]: MUST support point to point VPNs. [R10]: MUST support 5G network slicing. Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V.

# 7 Fronthaul
Fronthaul in O-RAN is defined as the connectivity in the RAN infrastructure between the Distributed

# 3 Unit (O-DU) and Radio Unit (O-RU).

## 7.1 Fronthaul details
As explained in section 6.2, the herein presented Fronthaul requirements focus on split options 7-2x, as shown in Figure 4 [74]. Option 8 will be addressed in chapter 13. Figure 4: O-RAN WG4 functional split 7-2x (Figure 2-2 in [74]) The use cases revolve around 4G/5G mobility services and URLLC. The presented requirements take advantage of documents already available by other standard bodies such CPRI (eCPRI Transport Requirements; [51]), IEEE 802.1CMde [52], and IEEE 1914.1 [53]. Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V.

## 7.2 Fronthaul specific requirements
Category Comments Interfaces O-RAN 7.2x, 1914.3, eCPRI, CPRI, Protocols O-RAN 7.2x: Ethernet VLAN based or IP/UDP Logical connectivity requirements Bandwidth per O-RU and O-DU Listed in this chapter below Transport delay (one way) O-RU to O-DU Listed in this chapter below Transport delay asymmetry Annex C (For Further Study) Synchronization / timing requirements Listed in synchronization chapter of this document

# 23 Table 2: Frame loss ratio requirements
Latency Class Max. One-way Use case Frame Delay Performance High25 25 s Ultra-low latency performance High751 75 s For full NR performance with fiber lengths in 10km range Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. High100 100 s For standard NR performance with fiber lengths in 10km range High200 200 s For installations with fiber lengths in 30km range High500 500 s Large latency installations > 30 km Medium User Plane (slow) & 1 ms C&M Plane (fast) Low C&M Plane 100 ms 1. New requirement category added based on deployment needs.

# 3 Table 3: One-way Delay requirements
Fronthaul bandwidth is dimensioned per cell site, where a number of carriers are deployed at different frequency bands (Low/mid bands in Sub 6 and mm wave in high band), and at different sectors. The Fronthaul bandwidth for a cell site depends on following key parameters

# 9 • Number of sectors

# 10 • Radio channel bandwidth of each carrier

# 11 • MIMO order of each carrier
Various sizes of site configuration may be considered for the eCPRI Fronthaul traffic:
- Small: single sector, carriers in either mmWave or Sub 6 with low MIMO order
- Medium: multiple sectors, carriers in both Sub 6 and mmWave with medium MIMO order
- Large: multiple sectors, carriers in both mmWave and Sub 6 band with Massive MIMO
Table 4 provides "typical" peak Fronthaul bandwidth "cases" in such site configurations:

# 24 Table 4: Fronthaul Bandwidth Reference for eCPRI traffic
The FH BW in Table 4 is calculated for functional split 7-2x and block floating point compression specified in O-RAN WG 4 CUS plane specification [74]. The formula used for the calculation is given as follows: 𝑣 𝑁 (12𝑁 +𝑁 ) FH BW = 2 × 10−9(1+ 𝑐) 𝑙𝑎𝑦𝑒𝑟 𝑃𝑅𝐵 𝑚𝑎𝑛𝑡𝑖𝑠𝑠𝑎 𝑒𝑥𝑝𝑜𝑛𝑒𝑛𝑡 (Gbps) 𝜇 𝑇 𝑠 Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V.

# 8 𝑇 = (second)
𝑠 14 ×2𝜇
- 𝑐 is the overhead from the control-plane. For downlink, 𝑐 ≈ 10% and for uplink 𝑐 ≈
0, as the control-plane is primarily the downlink traffic in O-RAN specification[74]. The overhead may also take different value depending on vender specific implementation. The relation of 𝑁 to the channel bandwidth and numerology is defined in 3GPP specification [64] 𝑃𝑅𝐵 that applies to both FDD and TDD. There is no need for any additional scaling by downlink/uplink ratio for TDD because full 𝑁 is always made available at the time of transmission in one direction 𝑃𝑅𝐵

# 18 (downlink or uplink).
The Fronthaul bandwidth calculation equation does not include the protocol encapsulation overhead (e.g., eCPRI header, Ethernet header, and IP header, etc.). At an assumption of average packet size equal to 1000, an additional 3.6% overhead needs be added for L2 Ethernet Encapsulation, and 6.4% for L3 IPv4 Encapsulation. Note that the Fronthaul traffic from the 7-2x Lower Layer Split is user data dependent. The actual real time Fronthaul bandwidth is expected lower than its peak depending on traffic payload in the deployment. Hence certain level of over subscription to transport network with Fronthaul statistical multiplexing is allowed at operator’s decision on the cell site dimensioning, user traffic profiling, and reliability requirement. More accurate calculation of such use of the Fronthaul transport is complex and is for further study. Examples of the site carrier configuration related to the Fronthaul bandwidth calculation are provided in Annex A, together with some possible eCPRI or CPRI interface configurations associated with the carriers. Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V.

# 8 Midhaul
There are many similarities between Midhaul and Backhaul components of a 5G RAN infrastructure and the transport infrastructure needed to support it. In order to avoid duplication this document has dedicated chapters covering Midhaul and Backhaul. These contain descriptions of the component and a requirements table. For requirements that are common for both Midhaul and Backhaul they are held in the Backhaul requirements section (see 9.3). There is also a common chapter (chapter 0) dedicated to dimensioning the transport network.

## 8.1 Midhaul details
The Midhaul network is a logical portion of the transport network that supports C-RAN architectures where there is a “High level Split” (HLS) or split 2 in the 5G Radio architecture which implies the O-DU and O-CU are split into independent components. It facilitates: 1) O-DU and O-CUs communication and supports the transport of the 3GPP F1/W1/E1 interfaces. In scenarios where the O-DU and O-CU are a combined entity then these interfaces are not exposed, and the transport network does not have a Midhaul component. 2) Inter O-CU communication and supports the transport of the 3GPP Xn interface. In scenarios where the MNO has not implemented a split O-DU and O-CU RAN architecture then these interfaces need to be supported in the Backhaul network. Figure 5 illustrates RAN architectures where a Midhaul or HLS is present. Figure 5: RAN architectures where a Midhaul transport is required

# 24 Source: Cisco
From an interface and protocol perspective 3GPP and O-RAN WG5 are defining these specifications. Note: WG5 will shortly publish O-RAN Transport Specifications 1.0 on the transport requirements for Midhaul . The requirements should be used in conjunction with this document. Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V.

# 8 Figure 6: De-aggregated gNB [58]

# 10 The characteristics of a disaggregated gNB are:
- A gNB may consist of a gNB-CU-CP, multiple gNB-CU-UPs and multiple gNB-DUs
- DUs and CU-UPs are connected to one CU-CP via the E1 interface

# 13 • DUs can connect to multiple CU-UPs

# 14 • Multiple CU-UPs connect to one CU-CP
- For resiliency reasons DUs and CU-UPs may connect to multiple CU-CPs
The 3GPP interfaces associated with O-DU and O-CU communication are:
- F1 interface defines the inter-connection of a gNB-CU and a gNB-DU and has a control

# 19 (F1-C) and user (F1-U) plane component.
- E1 interface defines the control plane inter-connection between the gNB-CU-CP and a gNB-
CU-UP. It allows these two components to run as separate entities and potentially in different locations.

# 26 8.1.2 Inter O-CU communications
Xn is a 5G interface between the gNBs in 5G and X2 is the interface between eNBs in 4G. Figure 7 illustrates Xn interface in a D-RAN architecture. Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V.

# 3 Figure 7: Overall Architecture showing Xn interface [65]
In scenarios where a “high level split” radio architecture has been adopted these interfaces run between the O-CUs and are considered to be part of the Midhaul transport architecture by O-RAN WG5. In D-RAN and RAN architectures that do not employ an HLS, then these interfaces will typically be considered part of the Backhaul network. The Xn and X2 interfaces are used to exchange signalling information between RAN nodes, and the forwarding of PDUs between RAN nodes during UE handover. The X2 interface also has an important role in the migration from 4G to 5G as it is used in some Non-Standalone Architectures (NSAs) migration solutions to convey signalling information, and in some cases user data from the 5G New Radios to the 4G Evolved Packet Core.

# 16 Figure 8: NSA Option 3/3a/3x networking mode [66]
Source: GSMA 5G Implementation Guidelines v2: NSA Option 3 Figure 8 shows the NSA option 3/3a/3x networking modes. In NSA option 3 (far left in figure) the signalling and user plane traffic associated with 5G UEs is sent from gNBs to eNBs and then onto the mobile core. In this mode, traffic levels between the gNB and the eNB and between the eNB and the EPC are a function of the amount of 5G spectrum and the number of 5G UEs. It is anticipated traffic levels will initially be low due to the scarcity of 5G UEs but could become very significant as the user population transitions towards 5G UEs and gets the benefits of increased capacity from using 5G NR. This mode impacts the transport infrastructure between the gNB and the eNB and also the transport infrastructure between the eNB and the EPC. Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. In NSA option 3a (middle of Figure 8) only signalling traffic traverses the X2 interface. NSA option 3x (far right in Figure 8) is roughly the opposite to NSA option 3. In this case signalling and user plane traffic from 4G UEs goes from eNBs via gNBs to the mobile core. In this NSA mode, the impact on the transport network is dependent on the level of 4G spectrum and the number of 4G UEs. The likely impact on the transport network is that traffic levels will be significant on the X2 interface initially, but as 4G users migrate to 5G so user plane traffic will decrease. X2 and Xn are logically a point to point connection between gNBs or eNBs. However, there are Xn and X2 interfaces to all adjacent eNBs / gNBs so in reality there is a multi-point relationship between entities.

# 12 The O-CU-O-CU interfaces are:
- X2 interface is the LTE interface between RAN nodes. The interface is further split into a
user plane and control plane components (X2-U user plane and the X2-C).
- Xn interface is the 5G interface between RAN nodes. The interface is further split into a user
plane and control plane components (Xn-U user plane and the Xn-C).

## 8.2 Midhaul requirements
There are many similarities between Midhaul and Backhaul transport requirements. The following table highlights the items specific to Midhaul. For requirements that are consistent between Midhaul and Backhaul please refer to Table 6 in the Backhaul section. Capability Requirements Notes 3GPP interfaces Control Plane: F1-C, E1 User Plane: F1-U Control Plane: Xn-C User Plane: Xn-U Network and transport All 3GPP interfaces are IP protocols Control plane interfaces: IP/SCTP User plane interfaces: IP/UDP/GTPv2 Logical connectivity Multi-point at IP layer requirements Transport network scale The size of the Midhaul infrastructure is for Midhaul highly dependent on how the C-RAN architecture is deployed. In scenarios where an operator is running a Fronthaul infrastructure then the Midhaul will be between O-DU sites and the O-CU sites (1st topology shown in figure xx). In both cases there could be aggregation. 1) Multiple O-RUs consolidating onto a smaller number of O-DU sites. 2) Multiple O-DUs consolidating onto a smaller number of O-CU sites. Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. In scenarios where the O-RU and the O- DU are co-located in the cell site (2nd topology shown in Figure 5) then the Midhaul will consist of every cell site plus sites where an O-CU component resides. Midhaul transport F1 and E1 interfaces dimensioning is provisioning covered in chapter 10. Xn and X2 interfaces are between gNBs and eNBs and traffic levels are highly dependent on the migration path being used by the MNO to move between 4G and 5G technology. End to end Midhaul Delay constraint for midhaul are derived See section 10.3 for more transport delay (one mainly from the target service’s latency detail. way) requirements, rather than specific requirements of the Midhaul’ s user or control planes. As service delay targets become tighter it may become necessary to: 1) Place Midhaul and Backhaul mobile components in close proximity to each other to reduce the delay impact of the transport network. 2) Combine mobile functions together so 3GPP interfaces run internally within a “Network Function” or within a data center to remove the delay impact associated with the WAN transport network. For example, combining O- RU, O-DU and O-CU or combining the O-DU and O-CU functions together. <1.5ms-10ms [83]

# 3 For generic Midhaul and Backhaul requirements please see
Table 6: Common Midhaul / Backhaul Xhaul transport requirements. Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V.

# 9 Backhaul
There are many similarities between Midhaul and Backhaul components of a 5G RAN infrastructure and the transport infrastructure needed to support it. In order to avoid duplication this document has dedicated chapters covering Midhaul and Backhaul. These contain descriptions of the component and a requirements table. For requirements that are common for both Midhaul and Backhaul they are held in the Backhaul requirements section (see section 9.3). There is also a common chapter (chapter 0) dedicated to dimensioning the transport network.

## 9.1 Backhaul details
From a 5G architectural perspective Fronthaul, Midhaul and Backhaul components and associated interfaces are always present. However, the impact on the transport architecture depends on where the different 3GPP components are placed and their proximity to each other. In a traditional D-RAN architecture the O-RU, O-DU, O-CU (or equivalent 4G components) are either integrated together or contained within a single cell site and the transport network for Backhaul run from the cell site to the mobile core. In a C-RAN NR architecture or disaggregated RAN architecture the Backhaul network connects the “Centralised Unit” (O-CU) to the mobile core components. Figure 9 shows some examples of how the placement of the various 5G NR components determines the size of the transport network associated with the Backhaul. The bottom architecture is a D-RAN architecture while all the others are C-RAN derivatives.

# 25 Figure 9: Backhaul layout with various RAN splits
source: Cisco Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Figure 10 shows components and the 3GPP interfaces in the mobile Backhaul. It has a control plane component and user plane component. It is not uncommon to see the control plane and the user plane divided into separate closed user groups at the transport layer to ensure a clear demarcation between customer user data and the 3GPP control plane.

# 8 Figure 10: 5G Backhaul components and interfaces
Source: Adapted from 3GPP TS 23.501 v6.4.0(2020-03): System Architecture for 5G [67] with control plane / user plane shading added by document authors.

# 12 The 5G 3GPP interfaces associated with Backhaul are:
- N1 interface is a logical control plane interface between the mobile core network and the UE.
From a physical perspective it flows via the RAN through the Backhaul infrastructure to the AMF. It is a signalling interface between the UE and the AMF.
- N2 interface supports control plane signalling between RAN and 5G core. It is primarily
concerned with connection management, UE context and PDU session management, and UE mobility management. In addition, Non-Access Spectrum (NAS) signalling between the UE and the AMF is transported over the N2 connection for that UE. This signalling includes information regarding access control, authentication and authorization, and session management procedures.
- N4 Interface is the bridge between the control plane and the user plane of the 5GC. It runs
between the SMF and the UPF and is responsible for conveying policy rules regarding policy handling, forwarding and usage reporting to the UPF.
- N3 interface is the user plane interface between the O-CU component of the (gNB) and the
initial UPF.
- N9 interface is a user plane interface than runs between two UPFs. (i.e. an intermediate UPF
and the UPF session anchor).

## 9.2 Backhaul transport evolution in 5G
The RAN Backhaul network has been a feature of every 3GPP generation, and many transport network engineers are familiar with the transport requirements RAN Backhaul of previous 3GPP Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. generations. However, 5G introduces some significant changes that will alter the requirements and nature of the Backhaul infrastructure. In the past 3GPP interfaces across the Backhaul networks tended to be hub and spoke in nature, with the radios at the edge and the mobile core control and user planes gateway components located in a fairly centralised location. See Figure 11 for details. Figure 11: Transport organization of tradition Backhaul networks (Source Cisco) With the advent of new 5G use cases, CUPS, MEC and slicing both the control and user plane Backhaul interfaces will become more multi-point in nature, with IP end points needing to communicate with other IP end points distributed around the whole transport network. This connectivity can be provided using either L3 routing or E-LAN / E-Tree services or a combination of both. In addition, with the advent of 5G slicing the transport network will need to support multiple L2 and L3 closed user groups on the transport infrastructure and in some cases permit controlled connectivity between and within closed user groups. See Figure 12 for details. Figure 12: 5G Backhaul infrastructure overlaying the transport infrastructure (Source Cisco) Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V.

## 9.3 Backhaul and Midhaul transport requirements
The transport requirements for Midhaul and Backhaul are very similar. The table below captures Backhaul and common Midhaul / Backhaul transport requirements. For transport requirements specific only to Midhaul please refer to Table 6. Capability Requirements Notes 3GPP interfaces Control Plane: N1, N2, N4 User Plane: N3, N9 Network and All 3GPP interfaces are IPv4 or IPv6 transport Control plane: IP/SCTP protocols Data plane: IP/UDP/GTPv2 Logical Control Plane: Multi-point connectivity at the This requirement could be connectivity IP interface level (IPv4 or IPv6) between met by the use of an L3 or requirements mobile components. an L2 solution or a User Plane: Multi-point at the IP interface level combination of the two. (IPv4 or IPv6) between mobile components Technology solution for the transport network to meet these requirements will be covered in technology specific O- RAN documents or by transport solutions specified by other organization. Later revisions of this document will reference these documents. Scope of the The transport network consists of WAN transport network components, the networking (switching) for Midhaul and infrastructure within the DCs and Network Backhaul Functions (physical or virtual) in DCs. R1: The WAN transport network and the DC transport networks MUST inter-operate together and allow end to end connectivity between transport components and creation of transport slices that have components in the WAN and the DC. Midhaul and Backhaul have strong similarities. These include: 1) IP endpoints with common protocols used in the Midhaul and Backhaul networks. 2) The O-CU is part of the 3GPP Midhaul and the Backhaul network, so from a Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. transport network perspective, Midhaul and Backhaul connectivity is presented by different physical or logical interfaces in the same “Network Function” (NF) and most likely same physical locations. 3) For deployment reasons, some radios in a cell site may be running a D-RAN architecture and other radios may be running a C-RAN architecture. Consequently, the same part of the transport network could be running both Midhaul and Backhaul services. R2: With these commonalities and overlaps strong consideration MUST be given by operators to designing, building and operating a single packet orientated transport infrastructure that supports both Midhaul and Backhaul services. R3: In scenarios where a common transport technology is used in Backhaul, Midhaul and Fronthaul then an operator MAY choose to build a common end-to-end transport infrastructure supporting Backhaul, Midhaul and Fronthaul. Transport R4: For national mobile infrastructures the The size of a Backhaul network scale for Transport network architecture: infrastructure depend on Backhaul MUST support mobile networks up to 100,000 the radio architecture. In O-RU locations. D-RAN scenarios the MAY support mobile networks up to 500,000 transport network could O-RU locations. potentially need to support these very large numbers of transport endpoints. The number of endpoints in the Backhaul will be smaller if radio architectures based on Fronthaul, Midhaul or both are implemented. The architectural solution needs to scale to very large number of transport endpoints without exhausting key transport resources or significantly inflating the transport solution costs. Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Transport Physical interfaces infrastructure Mobile equipment associated with Midhaul and See ORAN-WG5 transport Backhaul present Ethernet interfaces at the data specification for Midhaul link layer. equipment. [60] In Midhaul and Backhaul the mobile equipment runs IPv4 and/or IPv6 at the network layer. User Network Interface - Customer (UNI-C) R5: The Midhaul and Backhaul transport network MUST support physical Ethernet interfaces at the UNI-C. See Figure to the right. R6: The Midhaul and Backhaul transport network MUST support Ethernet services based on a full Ethernet port towards the end-user. For example, an EPL service as defined by MEF 6.2. R7: The Midhaul and Backhaul transport network MUST support Ethernet virtual services based on VLANs within an Ethernet port towards the end user. For example, an EVPL services as defined by MEF 6.2 R8: The Midhaul and Backhaul transport network MUST support subscriber IP services. For example, as defined by MEF61.1. R9: The transport network MUST support subscriber IP services on a full Ethernet port basis or over VLANs within an Ethernet port. . R10: Subscriber IP services MUST be supported over a single UNI Access link. R11: Subscriber IP services MAY be supported over: Refer to MEF 61.1 [68] 1) UNI access links terminating on section 7.3 for more different devices at the SP. details on IP service UNIs 2) UNI Access links terminating on different devices at the SP and the subscriber. 3) UNI Access links terminating on different devices at the subscriber R12: The transport network MUST support ingress bandwidth control mechanisms for See MEF 61.1 [68] Ethernet, IPv4 and IPv6. This is applied to “Bandwidth Profiles” for traffic flowing across the UNI interface from the examples of typical subscriber towards the transport network. Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 1) Ingress classification and packet actions applied on ingress marking and egress for IP services 2) Ingress traffic conditioning bases on classes with an Ethernet port. See MEF 10.3 3) Hierarchical ingress traffic conditioning [69]“Bandwidth Profiles” based on VLANs and classes within the for examples of typical VLAN. actions applied on ingress and egress of Ethernet R13: The transport network MUST support services egress bandwidth control mechanisms for Ethernet, IPv4 and IPv6. This is applied to traffic flowing across the UNI interface towards the end-user. 1) Egress traffic conditioning and scheduling based on classes with an Ethernet port. 2) Hierarchical ingress traffic conditioning and scheduling based on VLANs and classes within the VLAN. Transport Services R14: The transport infrastructure MUST support mechanisms to create: 1) Basic IPv4 and IPv6 routing Refer to MEF 61.1 [68] infrastructure for details of IP services 2) IPv4 or IPv6 Virtual Private Networks – any to any Ref to MEF 6.2 [70] for 3) IPv4 or IPv6 Virtual Private Networks – details of Ethernet services controlled access 4) IPv4 or IPv6 Virtual Private Networks with extranet 5) EPL and EVPL 6) EP-LAN and EVP-LAN 7) EP-Tree and EVP-Tree Transport network QoS and availability R15: Transport network MUST have mechanisms or utilise an architecture that implements Quality of Service based on QoS markings within the actual Midhaul / Backhaul packet. QoS markings could be Ethernet class of service markings, MPLS class of service marking, IPv4 DSCP or IPv6 traffic class marking. The appropriate QoS scheme will be determined by the transport architecture employed. Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. R16: Transport network MUST support QoS / availability mechanisms to enable SLAs to be offered to support 5G slices. Transport network SLAs for slices cover IP network delay characteristics and IP network availability. R17: Transport network MUST support mechanisms to ensure suitable behavioural isolation between transport slices on access and within the core of the transport network. Note: A transport NSSI is R18: Transport network MUST support not necessarily a network mechanisms to control and map a transport slice wide phenomenon. It may to the transport network’s physical topology. only be running in a small section of the network. R19: Transport network MUST implement transport slice protection / restorations schemes that allow 50ms protection of IP connectivity between slice endpoints. R20: The transport network MAY support other mechanisms to improve Transport slice reliability between IP endpoints. These could be protection mechanisms or other schemes such as multi-path traffic delivery. Transport network OAM and management R21: Transport equipment (DC and WAN) MUST support standard model-based approaches to support basic device and network configuration. R22: If appropriate, transport equipment (DC and WAN) MUST support standard model- based approaches to configure transport slices. R23: Transport equipment MUST support OAM tools to test link level capabilities. R24: Transport equipment MUST support OAM tools to test end to end connectivity. R25: Mechanisms MUST exist to determine the liveliness of transport network equipment. R26: Mechanisms MUST exist to determine liveliness of services running on the transport network Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. R27: Mechanisms MUST exist to determine delay and jitter of services running on the transport network Transport slicing R28: Transport network MUST support Please refer to Annex B: for 3GPP network slicing for the 3GPP Backhaul network. Slicing in Backhaul and Backhaul Midhaul Transport slice scale R29: The transport network slicing architecture MUST support the key 5G services and within each service type support 1000s of different customers that require isolation from each other. R30: The transport network slicing architecture MUST be capable of extending to every end site and also every DC locations. Transport Slice capabilities R31: The transport slicing solution MUST support the creation of slices that span from the WAN into the DC networking infrastructure. R32: Midhaul / Backhaul transport slices MUST allow: 1) Multi-point connectivity model between IP endpoints. 2) Connectivity between 3GPP components residing solely in the WAN space. 3) Connectivity between 3GPP components residing in either the same data center or different data centers 4) Connectivity between 3GPP components residing in the WAN and 3GPP components residing in a data center. 5) For a NF (physical or virtual) to inject and learn slice connectivity information from either WAN or DC transport components. R33: In situations where an operator builds a common transport infrastructure for Midhaul and Backhaul. Transport slices MAY be built so a common transport slice covers both the Midhaul and Backhaul interfaces or they MAY be built so there is a dedicated transport slice for Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Midhaul interfaces and another for Backhaul interfaces. Transport slice connectivity models R34: Transport network MUST enable the creation of discrete any-to-any VPNs for different transport slices. End points will be IP entities and may reside in the WAN or a DC. R35: Transport network MUST support the ability to run the Midhaul/Backhaul control plane and user plane of a slice in different VPNs. R36: The transport network MUST support complete connectivity isolation within a Transport slice so only those entities associated with that slice instance can communicate at the transport layer. R37: The transport network MUST support controlled connectivity from within one transport slice to IP entities that are either common to multiple slices or reside in another Transport slice. This is often termed Extranet connectivity R38: The transport network MUST support controlled connectivity between IP entities within the same Transport slice. Transport slice OAM R39: Transport network MUST support mechanisms to test and report transport slices edge-to-edge connectivity and response times to enable the performance of the transport slice to be monitored. R40: Transport network MUST support mechanisms to export transport SLA measurement details to an external storage infrastructure. Peak 5G DL data Peak 5G data rates are highly dependent on See chapter 10 for more rates overall cell site configuration and radio details on carrier and characteristics. This document uses four sector peak DL bandwidth. example site configurations to illustrate bandwidth requirements. Theoretical 5G NR peak data bandwidths for each site type are: Small Site (FR1): 1.8Gbps Small Site (FR2): 3.3Gbps Medium Site (FR1 + FR2): 25.8Gbps Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Large site (FR1 + FR2): 62.7Gbps Peak site 5G DL An encapsulation overhead of 10% has been See chapter 10 for more rates with used to calculate the peak 5G DL traffic rates. details and considerations encapsulation for selecting encapsulation (all carriers and Small Site (FR1) (1 sector): 2.0Gbps overhead. sectors included). Small Site (FR2) (1 sector): 3.7Gbps Medium Site (FR1 + FR2) (3 sector): 28.4Gbps Large site (FR1 + FR2) (3 sector): 68.8Gbps Transport Midhaul and Backhaul traffic is primarily made See chapter 10 for more provisioning up of user data and precise levels depend on details on different usage. When provisioning a statistically provisioning rules. multiplexed transport network it is normal to assume a statistic multiplexing gain as the It should be noted that even network travels from the edge towards the core in single sector cell sites in such networks operators can choose to Access provisioning provision the access Backhaul traffic is only present on access capacity below the peak circuits in D-RAN architectures. r adio rate of the site. Midhaul traffic is only present on access circuits when the RU/DU are co-located on the cell site. Using the four example site configurations and the empirical dimensioning rule outlined in chapter 10 shows the following bandwidth would be required on the access circuit. These figures are similar for scenarios where the access circuit supports Backhaul or Midhaul. Small Site (FR1 carrier only): ~2.0Gbps Small Site (FR2 carrier only): ~3.7Gbps Medium Site (FR1 + FR2 carriers): ~15.2Gbps Large site (FR1 + FR2 carriers): ~36.8Gbps Pre-Aggregation and Aggregation Dependent on SPs specific transport dimensioning and capacity planning rules. The statistical gain will increase as the traffic moves from the access towards the mobile core if the traffic is traversing statistically multiplexing equipment. Transport Not part of the scope of this document. Please refer to specific Technology technology orientated documents coming from WG-9 for technology and architectural details. End to end Delay constraint for Backhaul are derived Dependent on 5G service Backhaul mainly from the target service’s latency type. See 10.3 Transport delay requirements, rather than specific requirements (one way) of the Backhaul’s user or control planes. As Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. service delay targets become tighter it may become necessary to: 3) Place Midhaul and Backhaul mobile components in close proximity to each other to reduce the delay impact of the transport network. For example, O-DU, O-CU and UPF in the same data center. 4) Combine mobile functions together so 3GPP interfaces run internally within a “Network Function” or within a data center to remove the delay impact associated with the WAN transport network. For example, combining O-RU, O-DU and O-CU or combining the O-DU and O-CU functions together. 1ms – 50ms service dependent. Synchronization / See chapter 11 for synchronization and timing timing requirements. requirements Table 6: Common Midhaul / Backhaul Xhaul transport requirements plus specific Backhaul requirements

# 4 NOTES:
1) The above tables reference various documents from other standards organizations (for example the MEF). It is important to note that the requirement does not imply that the transport equipment, nor the transport network needs to be compliant with these particular documents. Rather these documents provide a good explanation or definition of the capability. 2) Technology solution for the transport network to meet these requirements will be covered in technology specific O-RAN documents or by other organizations specify transport solutions. Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V.

# 10 Transport network dimensioning for Midhaul and Backhaul
The Backhaul and Midhaul segments of a 5G network have many similarities in terms of dimensioning and provisioning rules which feed through to the transport network as requirements. This chapter covers transport dimensioning for Midhaul and Backhaul.

## 10.1 Transport capacity and radio density with 5G
5G represents a significant increase in capacity and size of the transport network over previous 3GPP generations. A common quote is 5G will bring a ten-fold increase in capacity, number of radios and end-user devices when compared with LTE.

## 10.2 Backhaul and Midhaul transport planning
Traffic rates in Midhaul and Backhaul traffic rates are highly dependent on end user usage and it is possible to dimension and provision the transport network for Midhaul and Backhaul assuming a statistic multiplexing gain. The precise gain will vary depending on the architecture of the transport infrastructure and the RAN architecture. There are three steps in dimensioning the transport network for Midhaul and Backhaul: 1) Calculate the peak rate for sectors within a site

# 19 2) Add Midhaul and Backhaul transport overheads

# 20 3) Calculate peak and average site usage
4) Apply a statistical multiplexing factor to determine the bandwidth to provision in various parts of the Midhaul and Backhaul transport network.

# 23 10.2.1 5G NR peak bandwidth
5G NR increases the data volumes seen in Backhaul, and if implemented in Midhaul, compared with previous generations of 3GPP technology. The formula below calculates the peak 5G data bandwidth for a single sector site.

# 28 Where

# 29 • 𝑗 is the sum of the carriers

# 30 • 𝑣(𝑗) is the number of MIMO layers
𝑙𝑎𝑦𝑒𝑟𝑠

# 31 • 𝑄(𝑗) is the modulation order
𝑚

# 32 2 - QPSK

# 33 4 - 16QAM

# 34 6 - 64QAM

# 35 8 – 256QAM

# 36 • 𝑓(𝑗) is the scaling factor
- 𝑅 is 948/1024
𝑚𝑎𝑥
- 𝑁𝐵𝑊(𝑗),𝜇 is RB allocation. Determined by subcarrier spacing, which can be elucidated from
𝑃𝑅𝐵 numerology () and bandwidth. Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V.
- 𝑇𝜇 = 10−3 is the average OFDM symbol duration in a subframe for numerology
𝑠 14 ×2𝜇
- 𝜇 is the numerology (0-15kHz SCS, 1-30kHz SCS, 2-60kHz SCS, 3 – 120kHz SCS)
- 𝑂𝐻(𝑗) is the overhead (0.14-FR1 DL, 0.18-FR2 DL, 0.08-FR1 UL, 0.10-FR2 UL)
For explanation of above formula see 3GPP TS 38.306 version 15.2.0 Release 15 [71] There are also multiple b/w calculators on the worldwide web. For example: https://5g-tools.com/5g-nr-throughput- calculator/ which calculates both “Frequency Division Duplex” FDD and “Time Division Duplex”

# 8 (TDD) use cases.

# 10 Notes
1) The calculated data rate is the theoretical maximum achievable by the radio/radios. Real data rates depend on the radio placement, configuration of the cell site, the surrounding area, number of active UEs, their capabilities and usage. 2) This figure does not include Backhaul or Midhaul transport overhead; namely IP/UDP and

# 15 GTP and potentially IPSEC encapsulation.
Table 7 shows the peak downlink (DL) data rates for some of the radio profiles outlined in Annex A of Fronthaul Interoperability Test Specification (IOT) document and the 5G NR radio components used in the small, medium and large sites examples used throughout this document. O-RAN IOT Frequency Mode Carriers MIMO layers DL B/W  TDD slot format Peak DL b/w (Gbps) Profile or site range (j) v(j) Modulation (MHz) profiles Profile 1&2 FR1 TDD 1 4 256QAM 100 1 Format 25 1.84 Profile 3 (low) FR2 TDD 1 2 256QAM 100 3 Format 25 0.85 Profile 3 (high) FR2 TDD 8 2 256QAM 800 3 Format 25 6.77 Profile 1 FR1 FDD 1 8 256QAM 30 0 NA 1.37 Profile 2 FR1 FDD 1 8 256QAM 20 1 NA 0.87 Profile 3 FR1 FDD 1 4 256QAM 30 1 NA 0.67 Profile 4 FR1 FDD 1 4 256QAM 20 0 NA 0.45 Small site -FR1 FR1 TDD 1 4 256QAM 100 1 Format 25 1.84 Small site-FR2 FR2 TDD 1 2 256QAM 400 3 Format 25 3.39 Medium site FR1 TDD 1 4 256QAM 100 1 Format 25 1.84 Medium site FR2 TDD 1 4 256QAM 400 3 Format 25 6.77 Large site FR1 TDD 1 16 256QAM 100 1 Format 25 7.34 Large site FR2 TDD 2 4 256QAM 400 3 Format 25 13.54 Notes Frequency Range (FR1) refers to frequencies below 7.225 GHz Frequency Range (FR2) refers to frequency bands from 24.250 GHz to 52.6 GHz spectrum (also referred to as “millimeter wave range”) FDD mode: both uplink and downlink can transmit at the same time at different spectrum frequencies. TDD mode, both uplink and downlink use the same spectrum frequencies but at different times. Format 25 allocates 0.785714286 bandwidth to downlink Calculation for a 1 sector cell site. Table 7: Peak Backhaul DL bandwidth for a selection of O-RAN IOT and 5G NR site examples

# 24 10.2.2 Site peak data rates
To calculate the maximum downlink bandwidth, it is necessary to sum the bandwidths associated with all radios in the site and add encapsulation overhead. The peak 5G NR DL data rates associated with the three example site profiles; small, medium and large are shown below. Note: Only the 5G radio components are considered. In the real-world, previous generations of 3GPP technology will most likely be deployed alongside 5G NR, so these components also need to be added. Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Frequency Mode sectors Carriers MIMO layers DL B/W  TDD slot Single sector Peak site DL b/w range (j) v(j) Modulation (MHz) format DL b/w (Gbps) (Mbps) FR1 TDD 1 1 4 256QAM 100 1 25 1836 1.84 Total (Gbps) 1.84 Table 8: FR1 small site peak DL data bandwidth Frequency Mode sectors Carriers MIMO layers DL B/W  TDD slot Single sector Peak site DL b/w range (j) v(j) Modulation (MHz) format DL b/w (Gbps) (Mbps) FR2 TDD 1 1 2 256QAM 400 3 25 3386 3.39 Total (Gbps) 3.39 Table 9: FR2 small site peak DL data bandwidth Frequency Mode sectors Carriers MIMO layers DL B/W  TDD Single sector Peak site DL b/w range (j) v(j) Modulation (MHz) slot DL b/w (Gbps) format (Mbps) FR1 TDD 3 1 4 256QAM 100 1 25 1836 5.5 FR2 TDD 3 1 4 256QAM 400 3 25 6772 20.3 Total (Gbps) 25.82Gbps

# 5 Table 10: Medium site peak DL data bandwidth
Frequency Mode sectors Carriers MIMO layers DL B/W  TDD Single sector Peak site DL b/w range (j) v(j) Modulation (MHz) slot DL b/w (Gbps) format (Mbps) FR1 TDD 3 1 16 256QAM 100 1 25 7344 2.32 FR2 TDD 3 2 4 256QAM 400 3 25 13544 40.63 Total (Gbps) 62.67

# 7 Table 11: Large site peak DL data bandwidth
To calculate the peak Backhaul and Midhaul transport bandwidth, add the network encapsulation overhead. This can be done by:

# 11 1) Calculating the packet per second

# 12 2) Adding the network encapsulation overhead

# 13 3) Calculating the transport bandwidth
Network encapsulation overhead depends on a number of factors including:

# 16 • L1/L2 technology

# 17 • IPv4 or IPv6

# 18 • Average packet size

# 19 • Mobile encapsulations
- Whether the Midhaul / Backhaul are running IPSEC or not.
The NGMN Backhaul group in “Guidelines for LTE Backhaul Traffic Estimation” [72] use an overhead of 10% to represent a general case for Backhaul (it is also applicable to Midhaul). For an Ethernet transport, IPv4, with no IPSEC encryption and an IMIX packet size (576 bytes) this is a good approximation. If IPSEC is providing Midhaul or Backhaul encryption, then the packet size increases due to the IPSEC overhead. In this scenario NGMN Backhaul group in “Guidelines for LTE Backhaul Traffic Estimation” [72] use an overhead of 14%. Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Site Type Peak Backhaul b/w (Gbps) Small (FR1) 2.0 Small (FR2) 3.7 Medium 28.4 Large 68.8

# 3 Table 12: Peak Backhaul site bandwidth

# 5 Notes:
1) Midhaul and Backhaul traffic is IP and use GTP as an encapsulation for user traffic. One of the main differences is Midhaul traffic carries the “Packet Data Convergence Protocol” (PDCP), while Backhaul does not. This would suggest that Midhaul traffic volumes are greater than Backhaul traffic volumes, however although PDCP adds overhead it can, through Ethernet and IP header compression reduce the size of the user’s packet size. For this reason, this document treats Backhaul and Midhaul traffic requirements as the same.

# 12 10.2.3 Estimating cell site loads
Backhaul and midhaul cell site throughput is the sum of all the traffic generated by all UEs using that site. UE throughput varies depending on the quality of the radio link to the gNB and the amount of spectrum assigned to it. 5G radios use adaptive modulation to adjust their data rates based on the radio conditions. In good conditions, where the UE has good signal strength from the radio and there is little interference, more information can be carried without errors for each unit of spectrum. This is in contrast with scenarios where the UE has low signal strength from the radio and interference levels are high. This is called spectrum efficiency and measured in bits per second, per Hz. The highest radio throughput occurs when there is high spectral efficiency and largest spectrum allocation for UEs. Typically, this occurs at quiet times when there are a small number of active UEs that is in close proximity to the radio. This is known as the Quiet Time Peak rate. As the number of UEs and distribution of UE’s around the cell site increases, so the busy time mean rate is seen. This is normally significantly lower than the quiet time peak rate and is impacted by interference between radios, carriers and UEs, along with environmental factors that impact signal strength and interference such as physical location of the cell site, its surroundings and other sources of interference. In the provisioning examples shown in Table 13, busy time mean has been calculated as 30% of quiet time peak. This is applicable to 4G implementations, however at this time it is not clear whether this figure is appropriate to 5G NR. Transport engineers will need to liaise with the radio engineers to ascertain this figure for 5G environments.

### 10.2.4 Transport dimensioning and provisioning for Backhaul and Midhaul
Regardless of the RAN architecture employed, the transport network consists of various segments. Figure 13 shows two of the most common splits of the transport network between the radio and the 5G core. In the first, there are three layers of transport infrastructure; access, pre-aggregation and aggregation. In the second, there are two layers of transport infrastructure; access and aggregations. In both cases the transport network needs to be considered as a whole, however potentially different technologies and provisioning rules apply in each segment. Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Notes: Neither diagrams show the core of the transport network which tends to be behind the 5G core components. Figure 13: 5G Backhaul infrastructure overlays the transport infrastructure consisting of physical networks. Source: Cisco

# 8 10.2.4.1 D-RAN Backhaul dimension
In a D-RAN architecture the Backhaul component of the network goes from the cell site to mobile core which tend to be positioned centrally.

# 11 10.2.4.1.1 Access (last mile) provisioning
Access or last mile provisioning depends on the number of radios in each cell site location. NGMA in “Guidelines for LTE Backhaul Traffic Estimation” [72] recommends for single cell last mile provisioning should be based on quiet time peak rate of the cell. For multi-sector / multi-carrier cell sites then a statistical gain can be achieved on the last mile because it is unlikely that quiet peak time peaks will occur simultaneously on all radios. NGMA in “Guidelines for LTE Backhaul Traffic Estimation” [72] outlines a number of potential provisioning approaches for multi-sector, multi-carrier cell sites. 1) Peak rate provisioning: In this case it is assumed that peak throughput occurs at the same time on all cells. NGMN point out this is a worst-case scenario and is highly unlikely to occur in practise and would be an expensive provisioning strategy. 2) Lower bound provisioning: This assumes peaks are uncorrelated but that the busy time mean applies to all cells simultaneously. The provisioning for N off eNBs is therefore the larger of the single cell peak or N x the busy time mean, thus: Lower Provisioning Bound for N cells = Max (peak, N x busy time mean)

# 32 Applying this to a 3-sector D-RAN site then
Access (last mile) dimensioning=Max (1 x peak, 3 x busy time mean) Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 3) A more conservative approach assumes that whilst one cell is peaking, the others are generating traffic at the mean busy time rate, thus: Conservative Lower Bound for N cells = Max [peak+(N-1) x busy time mean, N x busy time mean] Applying this to a 3-sector D-RAN site then the general last mile provisioning rules is to use Access (last mile) dimensioning = peak +(2 x busy time mean) In Table 13 the access bandwidth needed to cater for 5G example cell sites are shown using peak quiet time provisioning for single carrier, single sector sites. For multi-carrier, multi-sector sites a comparison is made between peak rate quiet time provisioning, lower bound provisioning and conservative bound provisioning. Site Type Carrier Sector Quiet Time Busy time Lower Conservative Peak rate types s Peak sector sector provisioning provisioning provisioning rate mean bound (Gbps) bound (Gbps) (Mbps) (Mbps) (Gbps) Small FR1 1 2020 606 N/A (single N/A (single 2.0Gbps (FR1) carriers sector, sector, carrier) carrier) Total site N/A N/A 2.0Gbps Small FR2 1 3724 1117 N/A (single N/A (single 3.7Gbps (FR2) carriers sector) sector) Total site N/A N/A 3.7Gbps Medium FR1 3 2020 606 2.0Gbps 3.2Gbps 6.1Gbps carriers FR2 3 7449 2234 7.4Gbps 11.9Gbps 22.3Gbps carriers Total site 9.5Gbps 15.2Gbps 28.4Gbps Large FR1 3 8078 2424 8.1Gbps 12.0Gbps 24.2Gbps carriers FR2 3 14898 4470 14.9Gbps 23.8Gbps 44.6Gbps carriers Total site 23.0Gbps 36.8Gbps 68.9Gbps Table 13: Last mile provisioning for 5G Backhaul (peak, lower and conservative bound)

# 21 Notes:
1) In this example small sites are single sector, single 5G carrier sites. With additional carriers (4G or 5G) then a statistical gain can be achieved. 2) Medium and large sites are 3 sector, multi-carrier 5G sites. Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. 3) Access circuit dimensioning only accounts for 5G services. 2G, 3G, 4G also needs to be considered as well. (discussed in more detail later). 4) Busy time mean is taken as 30% of peak quiet time rate for a sector. This number has been picked antidotally through discussions with an LTE MNO. There is on-going discussion whether this ratio will apply to a 5G NR implementations as the ratio between quiet time peak rate and busy time mean rate may change. 5) There is on-going discussion in the industry about whether these formula for LTE provisioning will apply in the 5G NR access circuits. 6) In the case of point-point last mile access technologies, the values in the table can be taken per cell. In the case of point-multipoint access technologies using a shared medium (e.g.; PON, DOCSIS), the last mile itself already performs a level of aggregation between multiple cells, and section 10.2.3.2 applies.

# 18 10.2.4.2 Pre-aggregation and aggregation transport dimensioning
If the transport technology and the network design enable statistical multiplexing, then the initial provisioning for Backhaul in the “pre-aggregation” and the “aggregation” segments of the transport network is based on predicting the level of statistical multiplexing. This will be based on network usage, network topology, levels of aggregation at different layers and usage / traffic correlation between adjacent cell sites. A similar initial provisioning approach could be taken as outlined by NGMA in “Guidelines for LTE Backhaul Traffic Estimation” [72] as discussed in previous section. However, when looking at aggregated Backhaul traffic then more emphasis needs to be placed on mean busy time rates than peak rates and mean busy time rates need to be calculated across multiple cell sites not across a single site (in most situations this will push the value down). Longer term provisioning will be based on collecting accurate traffic matrixes at the transport layer, demand level modelling and developing capacity plans rule.

# 34 10.2.5 C-RAN Backhaul dimensioning
In C-RAN architectures the access or last mile segment of the transport is not part of the Backhaul network. In these environments Backhaul dimensioning and capacity planning will be a function of the number of DUs each CU aggregates and where the CUs and UPF/UPFs resides in relation to each other and their overall position in the transport infrastructure.

# 40 10.2.6 Midhaul dimension
The Midhaul RAN component is only present in C-RAN architectures Figure 5 shows two deployments of Midhaul. In the top case the O-RU, O-DU and O-CU reside as discrete entities and at different levels of the transport network. In this case the Midhaul does not span the access portion of the network. Similar considerations as outlined in C-RAN Backhaul dimensioning can be used. Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. In the lower case the O-RU and O-DU are co-located in the cell site and the Midhaul runs from the cell site, across the access infrastructure to the O-CU which is located higher up in the transport network. Similar techniques as outlined in D-RAN Backhaul dimensioning can be used.

## 10.3 Backhaul and Midhaul latency
Previous 3GPP generations aimed at voice and basic data services. In these scenarios’ user plane one- way delay between the UE and the application could be multiple 10s of milliseconds, even reaching the low hundreds of milliseconds. These figures are the delay from the UE to the destination

# 8 “Application Function”.
In a 5G RAN infrastructure this is made up of: Overall one-way delay = UE delay + Radio air interface delay + FH/MH/BH transport networking delay + Radio component delays (DU, CU if used) + gateway delay + GiLAN transport network delay 5G introduces support for different service types (eMBB, URLLC and mMTC) and aims to cover a wide range of vertical markets, such IoT, industrial and automobile. Different services and verticals have different latency requirements, some extremely tight such as industrial motion control applications while others, such as some of IoT applications very relaxed. As an example, in the latest TR 22.804[85] the lowest maximum latency requirement for deterministic communication service is defined as 0.5ms for small industrial environments (50 m x 10 m x 10 m) with small packet sizes for motion control. A higher maximum latency of 500ms is given for periodic communication for standard mobile robot operation and communication services for CCTV surveillance cameras in mass rail transit with defined speeds of movement for each UE (UE speed < 50 km/h for mobile robots and ≤ 160 km/h in urban environments). In scenarios where low one-way latency is required then the Midhaul and Backhaul networks will need to be designed to accommodate these requirements. As the latency requirements become tighter the following needs to be considered. 1) Proximity and physical path between the UE and AF 2) Siting of gateway and AFs in relation to each other

# 33 3) Delay characteristics of the physical media
4) Delay characteristics of the RAN components (radio, DU, CU) 5) Number of physical hops and delay characteristics of the switching equipment 6) Whether the network is a public 5G or private 5G infrastructure. Figure 2 illustrates how adapting the RAN architecture and placement of RAN and “Application Function” (AFs) components can change the end-to-end latency characteristics of overall 5G infrastructure. Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V.

# 11 Transport operability
This section concerns transport requirements to ease operability of the transport. This section includes a first sub-section about transport system requirements, a second about transceiver and port monitoring and identification of the transport equipment, a third sub-section about power saving and energy efficiency. A last sub-section concerns an optional additional interface dedicated to remote monitoring of antenna site operation.

## 11.1 Operational transport requirements

# 10 11.1.1 Transport equipment at antenna site
It is highly desirable from the network operation perspective to manage a network transport system, i.e., the equipment at the hub site together with the equipment at the antenna site, as a single entity. In that sense, it is desirable that the equipment at the antenna site is managed via the equipment at hub site whenever possible. Therefore, transport equipment shall support real-time management and control functions of antenna site equipment by the hub site equipment.

# 17 11.1.2 Dual manage transport equipment at antenna site
The transport equipment at the antenna site shall optionally support collaborative management partition between the dedicated management by the transport equipment at hub site and also other configuration mechanisms.

# 22 11.1.3 Supervision
It is important to take care of operational expenditure dedicated to the medium of the transport and related equipment. The goal of supervision is to reduce the operational expenditure of the transport systems, without significantly increasing the capital expenditure by including as much test and diagnostic capability as possible. Naturally, this should be achieved without compromising the available bandwidth for services, i.e., test and diagnostics must be non-service affecting. The ability to reliably differentiate between optical medium and electrical faults at the equipment and establish if the faults are in the optical medium or in the electronics is a key operator requirement. Error inference can usually be made from the presence (i.e., power or equipment failure), or absence (i.e., fibre failure), of the Dying Gasp alarm. Several key points for the supervision can be summarized as follows:
- optical medium monitoring/checking: Monitoring and on-demand checking the condition of
optical medium independently from a transport system is important to differentiate optical medium failures from transport system failures. It is desirable that such monitoring and checking be available regardless of whether the transport equipment antenna site is in service or even connected. Several implementations could be proposed. Optical monitoring solution is proposed by ITU-T G.697 to detect anomalies, defects, degradation and fault affecting the quality of the optical transport. Another solution is to use an optical time domain reflectometer (OTDR) which is a powerful tool for diagnosing such faults in the optical medium. Power meter and light source can also be used to aid in this monitoring process. Several demarcation devices are under research for further improving the optical medium monitoring and checking. Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V.
- transport system would benefit from an ability to automatically and autonomously detect and
locate optical medium fault (optical medium segments : patch panel at the hub or antenna site, optical fiber cable in ducts or on the poles,..).
- End-to-end performance monitoring up to the Ethernet layer: End-to-end performance
monitoring enables operators to diagnose and register where traffic may have been dropped or throttled. Higher layer tools, such as Ethernet performance monitoring, need to support the capability monitoring and verification of ingress and egress traffic flows in transport network elements.
- Proactive versus reactive repair: transport systems with their monitoring and control systems
will allow operators to decide on the utilization of proactive or reactive fault repairs in most fault cases. It is of course up to the operators to decide on how to use transport status reports.
- For instance, key-performance-indicators related to the optical transport supervision could be
made available to an orchestrator, higher in the network, through an abstraction of the optical devices through software-defined networking.

### 11.1.4 Rogue behaviour and its mitigation in access transport segment
This clause is largely concerned with rogue behaviour between FTTH (Fiber To The Home) based on PON (Passive Optical Network) technologies and Xhaul access transport operations in last mile optical fiber infrastructure. The transport equipment at the antenna site must be initially disabled in order to avoid disturbing PON system in case of miss-connection in the optical fiber enclosure. The antenna site transport equipment shall enable the transmitter to enter a handshaking process with hub equipment only after confirming that the frame structure and/or the line coding of the received downstream signal are matched with those the antenna site equipment complies with. This confirmation shall be done with both hub and antenna site equipment. The Xhaul transport equipment must support silent start operation to prevent bidirectional physical layer interfering with FTTH based on point to multi-point. The silent start means that the upstream physical layer doesn’t transmit unless a valid downstream signal is received.

# 31 11.1.5 Transport availability
Operators need to determine the most resilient transport architecture for their reliable mobile services. Transport system should include a range of cost-effective resilience options to obtain the targeted availability of mobile services. These resilience schemes should be options available on the transport scenarios for passive and active equipment. Different types of service and specific offerings will require different recovery speeds. These may range from a few microseconds, for critical services like motion control for factories of the future, up to the order of seconds or minutes for monitoring or remote control applications. Note that support for resilience options should not increase the cost of such systems if deployed without resilience options. The protection architecture should be considered as one of the means to enhance the reliability of the Xhaul transport. However, protection shall be considered as an optional mechanism because its implementation depends on the realization of economical systems. It is also likely that other methods are used, such as cooperative technologies, e.g., fixed (optical fiber) and radio (micro-wave) for backup for cost reasons. Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Combining protection mechanisms related to Xhaul transport interfaces and the optical fiber infrastructure should even be possible, provided that the switching time of the two mechanisms is compatible or configurable. The goal should be to recover the Xhauling service in less than the common 50 ms value used for protection.

## 11.2 Transceiver and port monitoring and identification

# 9 11.2.1 Transceiver digital diagnostic monitoring
A digital diagnostic monitoring interface for optical transceivers is used to allow access to device operating parameters. As specified in SFF-8472 and SFF-8636, data is typically retrieved from the transceiver module in a memory map of an EEPROM. Such data must be available by the data plane. With QSFP and other advanced form factor transceivers, the optical links could be multi-wavelength (4xTx & 4xRx) and/or multi-fibers (MPO - Multifiber Parallel Optic). The antenna site and hub interface management must describe a management applicable to any kind and group of media lanes. The QSFP digital diagnostic (SFF-8636) describes such media lanes.

# 19 11.2.2 Transceiver class of operation for bidirectional transmission
A plurality of transceiver modules is used today and can define operational states for pluggable form factors (like SFP, SFP+, SFP28, XFP and QSFP, QSFP+, QSFP14, QSFP28, CFP, CFP2…). Each transceiver is associated with a unique interface name and port number value. Concerning fiber connectivity, in the last mile network (fixed access network to reach antenna)BiDi (BiDirectional - single singlemode fiber) transceiver is the preferred implementation to simplify operation (risk of mismatch…), reduce the cost and the dimensioning of fiber cable and reduce potential path delay asymmetry. The interoperability between transceiver at antenna site and hub is a must. Operations at antenna site and hub must support different timeline operation, refresh and other network operations requiring different purchasers of transceivers. In order to achieve this interoperability, working classes have to be clearly identified for the required transceivers.

# 33 11.2.3 Transceiver class of operation for WDM transmission
In order to save optical fiber, wavelength division multiplexing (WDM) could be proposed. It is already the case for high bit rate transceivers (ex. 100GBase interface) with multiple wavelength per stream and per fiber. In case that Xhaul transport uses WDM transmission, a single fiber operation (bidirectional multiple wavelength) will ease network operations. This single fiber operation concerns the colorized transceiver plugged in transport equipment ports and thus sharing optical fiber infrastructure. This single fiber operation is important for the last mile fiber infrastructure to reach the antenna site. One optical fiber per stream could be also proposed. The wavelength assignment per port could be static or tuneable. Auto-tuneable wavelength allocation simplifies inventory management. Each wavelength channel is tuned thanks to an embedded control channel. This control channel must be interoperable to ease network operations. Similar to previous Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. subsection, interoperability is a must for WDM operation and working classes (including optical spectrum parameters) have to be clearly identified.

# 4 11.2.4 Port-ID to ease field operation
In order to facilitate retrieval of the transport port identifier and other physical layer parameter indicators (ex. Launched optical power) during field operation (installation, maintenance,…), a port- ID could be tagged on the transport hub equipment. As an example, comparison of the locally measured optical power and the launched optical power information inside the port-ID should give operators a mean for measuring optical power budget. Optical monitoring and supervision parameters could refer to ITU-T G.697 for WDM systems and ITU-T G.988 for access systems based on received signal strength indicator of transceivers.

# 13 11.2.5 Eye safety
Given the higher launched optical power that can be injected into the fibre by transport equipment, both at the antenna and hub sites, all necessary mechanisms must be provided to insure that no eye damage can be caused to the end users unaware of the risks, especially if fibre is terminated inside public facilities (small cell). All transport equipment need to conform to eye safety classes. For access transport segment, the equipment must conform to the class 1M at the hub and class 1 at the antenna site defined in IEC 60825-2.

## 11.3 Power saving and energy efficiency
Saving energy in telecommunications network systems has become an increasingly important concern in the interest of reducing operators' operational expenses (OPEX) and the network's contribution to greenhouse gases. The power saving mechanism could be applied to reduce power consumption either continuously or during a time period. Transport equipment need to achieve a power saving mechanism in coordination with CORE and RAN equipment like O-CU, O-DU and O-RU. Coordination interface could be proposed to achieve such mechanism. Antenna and hub equipment may provide the best network energy efficiency experience combining both sleep periods approaches when the link is idle and line rate switching according to the actual payload to be conveyed. For the latter case, it is essential to enable the necessary logic to adapt the clock rate or number of active ports and wavelengths to the necessary payload at border equipment. In order to provide the most energy efficient transmission for variable traffic loads, antenna site and hub equipment must have the ability to adapt to it. As an example, transport equipment must provide a dynamic auto-negotiation of the Ethernet PHY line rate between antenna site and hub equipment and this should be enabled among the plurality of Ethernet PHY line rates supported according to the actual payload. For multi-wavelength transport (or transceiver), the number of active wavelength pair could be adapted to support the required traffic. Because of the high clock quality requirements, and long recovery time of clock recovery circuitry, no phase drift will be permitted in the downstream direction when switching line rate. Also, such switching will have to be hitless, i.e., without any Ethernet packet loss whatsoever. Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V.

## 11.4 Remote monitoring antenna site operation
The antenna tower site requires also a remote monitoring of sensors and actuator (collection of alarm, active action on site…) for environmental, power, tower light, building and facility. This remote operation requires a logical link with a master unit at the hub site or other remote site. This link could be based on Ethernet (Fast or GigaEthernet). This link should be considered by the transport system between antenna site and hub site.

## 11.5 Operability requirements

# 9 Table 14 captures operability transport requirements.
Capability Requirements Notes Management The transport equipment at the antenna site MAY be managed via the transport equipment at the hub site. Supervision The transport equipment supervision MUST differentiate equipment and infrastructure faults. Rogue behaviour For access network segment, the transport This requirement allows equipment at antenna site MUST support to prevent jamming mechanism to avoid disturbing other transmission on the network operations like silent start FTTH networks in cases network function of unintentional connection. Availability Operator MAY choose to use resilience Technology solution to mechanism for transport equipment and meet this requirement infrastructure. will be covered based on coordination with CORE and RAN equipment. Transceiver The transport equipment MUST provide the digital diagnostic data of transceivers. The interoperability between transceivers at antenna site and hub is a MUST. Operator MAY choose to select bidirectional (single fiber) to ease operation. In case of WDM transport equipment, operator MAY choose auto- tunable wavelength transceivers. Port ID For antenna site operation, optical monitoring and supervision parameters MUST be supported for remote operations. Eye safety The transport equipment for access segment MUST be conform to the class 1M at the hub and class 1 at the antenna site defined in IEC 60825-2 Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Power saving energy The transport equipment MUST be Technology solution to efficiency capable to support power saving meet this requirement mechanism. will be covered based on coordination with CORE and RAN equipment.

# 12 Synchronization
This chapter spells out synchronization requirements for fronthaul networks in alignment with WG

# 3 CUS specification [74].

## 12.1 Frequency, Phase and Time Accuracy Requirements
The following set of synchronization requirements have been identified as relevant for O-RAN:

# 6 • Radio frame alignment (O-RU radio interface)
o Absolute sync to support TDD : relative 3μs between antennas is transformed into +/-

# 8 1.5μs with regarding to a common reference(e.g. GNSS)
o Relative sync to support radio coordination functions. Most stringent requirement between “non-collocated” O-RUs is 260 ns TAE. Other applicable requirements are 3μs (to support TDD networks). In case of co-located O-RUs 130 ns may also apply.
- Control of the latency between O-DU and O-RU (section 2.3 from O-RAN CUS
specification): o The relative time error between the O-DU and O-RU shall be within a limit of 3μs (±1.5μs). This requirement applies whether the O-DU is on the synchronization path towards O-RU or not.
- O-DU to O-DU synchronization for Radio Frames handling (e.g., SFN generation):

# 18 • Expected in the ms range

# 19 • Frequency sync of the radio signal
- Frequency accuracy/stability of the O-RU radio interface (50 / 100 ppb)

# 21 • O-CU to O-DU synchronization
- No stringent requirement identified (alarm timestamping is one possible use
case) Further details are provided below for some of these requirements. The frequency synchronization requirements are summarized in Table 15. Application/ Frequency Accuracy Requirements Specification Technology LTE Wide Area ±0.05 ppm 3GPP TS 36.104 BS (01/2020) [75] section 6.5.1 LTE Medium ±0.1 ppm 3GPP TS 36.104 Range BS (01/2020)[75] section 6.5.1 LTE Local Area ±0.1 ppm 3GPP TS 36.104 BS (01/2020) [75] section 6.5.1 LTE Home BS ±0.25 ppm 3GPP TS 36.104 (01/2020 [75] section 6.5.1 NR Wide Area ±0.05 ppm 3GPP TS 38.104 BS (01/2020) [76] section 6.5.1 NR Medium ±0.1 ppm 3GPP TS 38.104 Range BS (01/2020) [76] Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. section 6.5.1 NR Local Area ±0.1 ppm 3GPP TS 38.104 BS (01/2020) [76] section 6.5.1

# 4 Time/Phase synchronization requirements:
The requirements for Time/Phase synchronization for LTE features and 5G features covered in WG4 CUS specification [74] can be referenced as described below:
- Table 9-1: LTE features with time alignment error requirement at the air interface
- Table 9-2: 5G features with time alignment error requirement

## 12.2 Error Budget Allocation Requirements
In case of LLS-C1 and LLS-C2 the frequency error budget allocation can be based on Table 9-3 of ORAN-WG4.CUS.0-v03.00 (04/2020) [74]. In case of LLS-C3 the frequency error budget allocation is provided in Table 16 and is based on Table 9-4 of ORAN-WG4.CUS.0-v03.00 (04/2020) [74]. Timing O-RAN transport network contribution limit (LLS-C3) Reference PRTC MTIE per ITU-T G.8272/Y.1367 (11/2018) [82] clause 6.2 ePRTC MTIE per ITU-T G.8272.1/ Y.1367.1 (08/2019) [79] clause 6.2 PRTC in FFS (Note 1) holdover ePRTC in <100ns for 14 days per G.8272.1 clause 8.2 holdover Note 1: PRTC holdover is for further study. As an example, G.8271.1 (08/2019) Annex

## V.3 Failure scenarios, refers to a holdover failure scenario of 400 ns for a short
interruption (e.g. 5 min) of GNSS. This could be extended to longer periods (e.g. several hours or longer) depending on choice of oscillator and system design.

# 21 Table 16: Wander generation requirement for PRTC/ePRTC
ITU-T G.8272/Y.1367 (11/2018): Timing characteristics of primary reference time clocks https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-G.8272-201811-I/en ITU-T G.8272.1/Y.1367.1 (11/2016) Amendment 2 (08/2019): Timing characteristics of enhanced primary reference time clocks https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-G.8272.1-201908-I!Amd2/en Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. ITU-T G.8271.1/Y.1366 (2017) Amendment 2 (08/2019) : Network limits for time synchronization in packet networks https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-G.8271.1-201908-S!Amd2/en For the case of LLS-C1 and LLS-C2 the time error budget allocation is summarized Table 17 and is based on Table 9-3 of ORAN-WG4.CUS.0-v03.00 (04/2020) [74]. Two types of O-RU are considered in the CUS specification: Enhanced O-RU with |TE| < 35 ns and Regular O-RU with |TE|

# 10 < 80 ns.
The below table considers a time error budget allocation model from Xhaul transport point of view from end to end Grandmaster to O-RU. Here it is simplified to show the transport network budget based on different PRTC/GM and type of O-RU selected for the entire Xhaul network. Time error budget allocation (LLS-C1/C2) Timing Reference O-RAN transport network O-RU Air interface contribution limit (NOTE2) target No relative |TE| Relative |TE | ≤60ns Enhanced O-RU 130ns |TAE| L contribution by Between 2 =-RUs UNI between PRTC/T-GM Note 1 NOTE- regular antennas since PRTC/T- Note 2 O-RU can’t meet GM is common this requirement For NR Intra- PTP and SyncE band contiguous master to all co- carrier operated O-RU aggregation (FR2) Relative |TE | ≤190ns Enhanced O-RU 260ns TAE L Between 2 O-RUs UNI between Note 1 antennas Note 2 For NR Intra- band contiguous Relative |TE | ≤100ns Regular O-RU carrier L Between 2 O-RUs UNI (Note 4) aggregation Note 1 (FR1) Note 2 Absolute |TE| ≤ Network |TE | ≤ 1365ns Enhanced O-RU 3μs TAE L 100ns • Between T-GM port and O-RU between PRTC-A/T-GM U NI antennas spec per ITU-T (TDD, NR Inter- band carrier Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. G.8272 (03/2020) Network |TE | ≤ 1320ns Regular O-RU aggregation or L [78] • Between T-GM port and O-RU NR Intra-band non-contiguous

# U NI
carrier aggregation) Absolute |TE| ≤ Network |TE | ≤ 1435ns Enhanced O-RU L 30ns • Between T-GM port and O-RU ePRTC/T-GM U NI spec per ITU-T G.8272.1 (08/2019) [79] Network |TE | ≤ 1390ns Regular O-RU L
- Between T-GM port and O-RU
UNI Absolute |TE| ≤ Network |TE | ≤ 1425ns Enhanced O-RU L 40ns • Between T-GM port and O-RU PRTC-B/T-GM UNI spec per ITU-T G.8272.1 (08/2019) [79] Network |TE | ≤ 1380ns Regular O-RU L
- Between T-GM port and O-RU
UNI

## 12.3 Synchronization solution requirements
Successful synchronization deployment depends on many factors. A solution architecture document for timing and synchronization will cover more in detail the following aspects:

# 17 • Building blocks of network based synchronization

# 18 • Timing profiles
Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V.

# 3 • Other applications and sync model

# 4 • Synchronization network monitoring and management models

# 5 • Best practices and network models

## 12.4 Summary
In summary, the use of Precision Timing Protocol (PTP) has been in use for many network iterations. With the migration to NR and eCPRI, it will become more prevalent and have an extended reach in mobility networks, all the way to the O-RU. This will require a PTP profile based on ITU-T G.8275.1 (03/2020) [80] with Synchronous Ethernet, in the Fronthaul, from O-DU to O-RU (note: for the O- RU it is optional the use of SyncE). The Technical Solutions Document will further describe options for the enhancing the network synchronization performance and reliability. Finally, Figure 14 to Figure 16 provide some examples of absolute and relative time error requirements as diagrams for LLS-C1 and LLS-C2. Config LLS-C3 is being studied in ITU-T (planned to be covered in ITU-T G.8271.1 (03/2020) [77] Figure 14: Example of Absolute vs Relative Requirements (Config LLS-C1 Option A, where

# 22 T-GM is embedded in O-DU)
Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Figure 15: Example of Absolute vs Relative Requirements (Config LLS-C1 Option B, where

# 4 T-GM is directly connected to O-DU)
Figure 16: Example of Absolute vs Relative Requirements (Config LLS-C2 Option A, where

# 8 O-DU is nearest common T-BC)
Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V. Note: All three figures (14, 15 and 16), the T-TSC embedded in remote site and T-BC embedded in O-DU need not to be compliance to ITU-T G.8273.2, 03/2020 [81] specification. Refer the WG4

# 3 CUS spec [74] for additional details on this.
Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V.

# 13 Legacy Requirements
Legacy radio equipment plays a role in the 5G network evolution and must be supported in the new network implementations. This means support of the Common Public Radio Interface (CPRI) must be taken into consideration as it is the interface between radios and BBU. As stated in the Scope section, legacy transport will follow 3GPP split Option 8, the PHY-RF split. This option allows to separate the RF and the PHY layer. In addition, it allows for centralization of processes at all protocol layer levels, resulting in very tight coordination of the RAN and provides efficient support of functions such as CoMP, MIMO, and load balancing. CPRI is a digitized and serial interface that establishes a connection between BBU and an RRH. The BBU contains the radio functions of the digital baseband domain and the radio contains the analog radio frequency functions. CPRI supports three information flows: 1. IQ Data – user plane information in the form of In-Phase and Quadrature modulation data 2. C&M Data – Control and Management data which is exchanged between the “REC” and “RE” 3. Synchronization Data – used for CPRI frame and time alignment The three CPRI information flows are supported separately with a flow of frames supporting the IQ data information flow and a flow supporting the C&M data. Synchronization is provided separately. The Table 18 below breaks out the different requirements for each flow:

# 26 Table 18: CPRI Flow Requirements
For legacy LTE radios, the Fronthaul bandwidth reference for CPRI traffic is classified in Table 19 Table 19: Fronthaul Bandwidth Reference for LTE traffic in CPRI For CPRI rate calculation associated with option 8 split, FH BW = = 2 ∙10−9 ∙1.25∙𝑓 ∙𝑁 ∙𝑁 (Gbps) 𝑠 𝑏𝑖𝑡 𝑎𝑛𝑡

# 38 Where
Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V.
- 𝑓 is the sample frequency, and 𝑓 = 30.72 MHz for 20MHz LTE carriers
𝑠 𝑠
- 1.25 is the increasing factor due to the overhead from 8b/10b line code. When 66b/64b line
code is used, this factor should be changed to 66/64=1.03125

# 4 • is the CPRI control word overhead
- 𝑁 is the bitwidth of the radio I/Q sample
𝑏𝑖𝑡

# 6 • 𝑁 is the number of antennas
𝑎𝑛𝑡 Unlike eCPRI, the CPRI traffic will be constant regardless the user data payload. If CPRI interface is not efficiently used (such as empty AxCs in the CPRI Basic Frame) the required Fronthaul bandwidth will be expected higher. For co-existence of the 5G NR and LTE radios in the same cell site, both eCPRI and CPRI traffic should be considered. Combining the results given in section 7.2 for eCPRI traffic, Table 20 gives the total Fronthaul bandwidth reference with both eCPRI and CPRI traffic included. Table 20: Fronthaul Bandwidth Reference for eCPRI + CPRI For specific RAN equipment implementation, the RAN split point may not be O-RAN option7-2x. So, different RAN vendors have different results due to different implementation details and parameter settings. Taking the following split choice as an example:

# 25 • Downlink User Plane: option 7-3,
- Uplink User Plane: Between “Resource Element De-Mapping” and “Channel estimation”;
Table 21 provides the bandwidth calculation based on the split point shown above and with both eCPRI and CPRI traffic included. Table 21: Large site configuration, Sub 6 NR(massive MIMO) Copyright 2021 O-RAN ALLIANCE e.V.


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG9.XTRP-SYN.0-R004-v07.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG9.XTRP-SYN.0-R004-v07.00 Technical Specification Synchronization Architecture and Solution Specification"
---


---

<!-- SOURCE: O-RAN.WG9.XTRP-TST.0-R004-v05.00.md -->
---
title: "O-RAN.WG9.XTRP-TST.0-R004-v05.00 Technical Specification"
---

### 8.2.3 Constraints based 7-2x eCPRI transport over Packetized Fronthaul using Controller based Path

### 9.1.11 Network Time Synchronization-LLS-C2 (Option-B) configuration (Time Error with Background

### 9.1.16 Network Time Synchronization-LLS-C3 (Option-B) configuration (Time Error with Background

### 9.2.10 Timing Resiliency in Ring Topology-O-DU connected to HSR and SYNC from Backhaul (LLS- C3)-Aggregated Link-BR1 to BR3 primary member link down. (Case-1: T-GM1 is the preferred

### 9.2.13 Timing Resiliency in Ring Topology-O-DU connected to HSR and SYNC from Backhaul (LLS- C3)-Normal State (Case-3: T-GM1 is preferred through explicit configuration via Local-Priority on

### 9.2.14 Timing Resiliency in Ring Topology-O-DU connected to HSR and SYNC from Backhaul (LLS- C3)-T-GM1 to BR1 Link Down. (Case-3: T-GM1 is preferred through explicit configuration via

### 9.3.8 Network Time Synchronization-LLS-C3 configurations with GNSS assisted CSR for co-located

# 3 Scope
This document defines the testing requirements for an Open Xhaul transport infrastructure. It is based on Xhaul Transport Requirement document, Packet Switched Architectures and Solutions document, the WDM-based Fronthaul Transport, and Synchronization Architecture and Solution documents. It defines test cases and provides dedicated chapters for different solutions. This document uses information published by O-RAN, 3GPP, IEEE, ITU-T, IETF, CableLabs, NGMN and several other relevant standard bodies and industry associations. It contains educational, informative, and normative content. Version 02.00 of this document adds new test cases for synchronization (9.2) and WDM (7.1.5 & 7.1.6). Version 3.0 adds new test cases for Synchronization (9.3) and WDM (7.1.6).

# 15 What is not covered in this document:
- The document shall minimize any unnecessary overlap with content presented in other O-RAN testing
specifications such as WG4 Conformance Test (S-Plane) specification. Whereas the latter is about testing an O-RU or O-DU, this document verifies the transport networks placed between those O-RAN components. Some of the presented synchronization test cases may be moved from this document to other documents such as the WG4 Conformance Test specification in agreement with respective authors of the latter document.

# 4 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this text, constitute provisions of the present document.
- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition number, version number, etc.)
or non-specific.
- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a reference to a 3GPP
document (including a GSM document), a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document in Release 15. [1] 3GPP TS 38.472 V15.5.0: " F1 signalling transport (Release 15)". [2] IEEE 802.1Q-2018: “IEEE Standard for Local and metropolitan area networks— Bridges and Bridged Networks” [3] IETF RFC 2474: “Definition of the Differentiated Services Field (DS Field) in the IPv4 and

# 15 IPv6 Headers”
[4] IETF RFC 2598: “An Expedited Forwarding PHB” [5] IETF RFC 2597: “Assured Forwarding PHB Group” [6] IETF RFC 4594: “Configuration Guidelines for DiffServ Service Classes” [7] IETF RFC 826: “An Ethernet Address Resolution Protocol -- or -- Converting Network

# 20 Protocol Addresses”
[8] IETF RFC 792: “INTERNET CONTROL MESSAGE PROTOCOL” [9] IETF RFC 8200: “Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6) Specification” [10] IETF RFC 4861: “Neighbor Discovery for IP version 6 (IPv6)” [11] IETF RFC 4443: “Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMPv6) for the Internet Protocol

# 25 Version 6 (IPv6) Specification”
[12] IETF RFC 6890: “Special-Purpose IP Address Registries” [13] IETF RFC 8190: “Updates to the Special-Purpose IP Address Registries” [14] IETF RFC 2131: “Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol” [15] IETF RFC 4361: “Node-specific Client Identifiers for Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol

# 30 Version Four (DHCPv4)”
[16] IETF RFC3315: “Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol for IPv6 (DHCPv6)” [17] IETF RFC4862: “IPv6 Stateless Address Autoconfiguration” [18] IETF RFC768: “User Datagram Protocol” [19] 3GPP TS 29.060 V15.0.0: “GPRS Tunnelling Protocol (GTP) across the Gn and Gp interface (Release 15)” [20] 3GPP TS 29.274 V16.1.0: “GPRS Tunnelling Protocol (GTP) across the Gn and Gp interface (Release 15)” [21] 3GPP TS 36.422 version 15.1.0: “X2 signalling transport (Release 15)” [22] 3GPP TS 36.424 version 15.0.0: “X2 data transport (Release 15)” [23] 3GPP TS 38.474 V15.3.0: " F1 data transport (Release 15)". [24] 3GPP TS 33.117 V16.2.0: “Catalogue of general security assurance requirements

# 42 (Release 16)”
[25] IETF RFC 2119: “Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels” [26] IEEE 802.3-2018: “IEEE Standard for Ethernet” [27] IETF RFC 791: “INTERNET PROTOCOL” [28] IETF RFC 1918: “Address Allocation for Private Internets” [29] IETF RFC 5357: “A Two-Way Active Measurement Protocol (TWAMP)” [30] IETF RFC 4656: “A One-way Active Measurement Protocol (OWAMP)” [31] ITU-T G.8013/Y.1731(08/2015): “Operation, administration and maintenance (OAM) functions and mechanisms for Ethernet-based networks” [32] IETF RFC 4960. “Stream Control Transmission Protocol” [33] 3GPP TS 29.281 V15.6.0: “General Packet Radio System (GPRS) Tunnelling Protocol

# 5 User Plane (GTPv1-U) (Release 15)”
[34] IETF RFC 1034: “DOMAIN NAMES - CONCEPTS AND FACILITIES” [35] IETF RFC 1035: “DOMAIN NAMES - IMPLEMENTATION AND SPECIFICATION” [36] IETF RFC 4210: “Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certificate Management

# 9 Protocol (CMP)”
[37] IETF RFC 6083: “Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS) for Stream Control

# 11 Transmission Protocol (SCTP)”
[38] 3GPP TE 33.501 V15.6.0: “Security architecture and procedures for 5G system (Release

# 13 15)”
[39] IETF RFC 4301: “Security Architecture for the Internet Protocol” [40] 3GPP TS 33.210 V16.2.0: “Network Domain Security (NDS); IP network layer security

# 16 (Release 16)”
[41] 3GPP TS 33.310 V16.2.0: “Network Domain Security (NDS); Authentication Framework

# 18 (AF) (Release 16)”
[42] 3GPP TS 33.401 V16.0.0: “3GPP System Architecture Evolution (SAE); Security architecture (Release 15)” [43] 3GPP TR 33.821 V9.0.0: “Rationale and track of security decisions in Long Term Evolved (LTE) RAN / 3GPP System Architecture Evolution (SAE) (Release 9)” [44] IETF RFC 4303: “IP Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP)” [45] IETF RFC 8221: “Cryptographic Algorithm Implementation Requirements and Usage Guidance for Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP) and Authentication Header (AH)” [46] IETF RFC 7296: “Internet Key Exchange Protocol Version 2 (IKEv2)” [47] ETSI GS NFV-INF 005 V1.1.1 (2014-12): Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV);

# 28 Infrastructure; Network Domain
[48] 3GPP TS 38.462 V15.5.0: “E1 signalling transport (Release 15)” [49] MEF 22.3: “Transport Services for Mobile Networks, January 2018” [50] 3GPP TS 29.303 V16.0.0: “Domain Name System Procedures; Stage 3 (Release 16)” [51] eCPRI Transport Requirements V1.2, Common Public Radio Interface: Requirements for the eCPRI Transport Network, June 25, 2018. [52] IEEE 802.1CMde: Time-Sensitive Networking for Fronthaul Amendment: Enhancements to Fronthaul Profiles to Synchronization, and Syntonization Standards Networking for Fronthaul, —Support New Fronthaul Interface, July 26, 2019 [53] IEEE 1914.1TM D3.0, Draft Fronthaul Transport Networks, November 2018. [54] 3GPP TS 38.422 version 15.0.0 Release 15: Xn general aspects and principles [55] GSMA:”5G Implementation Guidelines: NSA Options” [56] NGMN: “NGMN Overview on 5G functional decomposition” [57] ITU-T GSTR-TN5G: “Transport Network support of IMT-2020-TG” [58] 3GPP 38.401: “NG-RAN; Architectural description” [59] O-RAN: “WG-4 Inter-Operability Testing” [60] O-RAN Open F1/W1/E1/X2/Xn Interfaces Working Group “Transport Specification” [61] O-RAN: “WDM-based Fronthaul Transport” [62] O-RAN: “Management interfaces for Transport Network Elements” [63] NGMN “5G RAN CU-DU network architecture, transport options and dimensioning, version 1.0 12 April 2019)” [64] 5G Transport Slice Connectivity Interface – draft-rokui-5g-transport-slice-00 [65] 3GPP R3-162102 TSG-RAN Working Group 3 Meeting #93-bis CU-DU split: Refinement for Annex A (Transport network and RAN internal functional split) [66] 3GPP TS 38.101: “NR, User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception” [67] 3GPP TS 38.300: “NR Overall description” [68] GSMA: “5G Implementation Guidelines v2” [69] 3GPP TS 23.501 v6.4.0(2020-03): “System Architecture for 5G” [70] MEF 61.1: “IP Service attributes” [71] MEF 10.3: “Ethernet Service attributes” [72] MEF 6.2: “EVC service definition” [73] 3GPP TS38.306: “NR; User equipment (UE) radio access capabilities” [74] NGMN “Guidelines for LTE Backhaul estimations” [75] ITU-R M.2083: “IMT Vision – framework and overall objectives of the future development of IMT for 2020 and beyond”. [76] O-RAN Fronthaul Working Group, “Control, User and Synchronization Plane Specification”, v08.00 (04/2022) [77] 3GPP TS36.104, version 16.4.0, 01/2020, “Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) Base Station (BS) and radio transmission and reception”. [78] 3GPP TS38.104, version 16.2.0, 01/2020, “NR Base Station (BS) and radio transmission and reception”. [79] ITU-T G.8271.1, 03/2020, “Network limits for time synchronization in packet networks with full timing support from the network” [80] ITU-T G.8272 Amendment 1, 03/2020, “Timing characteristics of primary reference time clocks” [81] ITU-T G.8272.1, Amendment 2, 08/2019, “Timing characteristics of enhanced primary reference time clocks” [82] ITU-T G.8275.1, 03/2020, “Precision time protocol telecom profile for phase/time synchronization with full timing support from the network “ [83] ITU-T G.8273.2 Amendment, 03/2020, “Timing characteristics of telecom boundary clocks and telecom timeReceiver clocks” [84] ITU-T G.8272/Y.1367, 11/2018. “Timing characteristics of primary reference time clocks” [85] 3GPP TS38.801, version 14.0.0, 03/2017, “Study on new radio access technology: Radio access architecture and interfaces” [86] NGMN “Overview on 5G RAN function decomposition”. [87] 3GPP TR22.804 v16.2.0 (2018-12), “Study on communications for automation in vertical domains” [88] ITU-T G.8271.1, 03/2020, “Network limits for time synchronization in packet networks with full timing support from the network”, Amendment 1, 10/2020.

# 5 Definitions and abbreviations

## 5.1 Definitions
The key words "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in IETF RFC 2119 [25]. All key words must be in upper case, bold text. Items that are REQUIRED (contain the words SHALL or SHALL NOT) will be labelled as [Rx] for required. Items that are RECOMMENDED (contain the words SHOULD or SHOULD NOT) will be labelled as [Dx] for desirable. Items that are OPTIONAL (contain the words MAY or OPTIONAL) will be labelled as [Ox] for optional. Items, if supported, are not meant to be active at all times, but should be available for use. Their state (active or not active) should be based on configuration.

## 5.2 Abbreviations
Abbreviations defined in this document take precedence over the definition of 3GPP. AF Application Function ITU-T International Telecom Union-Telecom AMF Access and Mobility Management LAN Local Area Network Function AN Access Node LLS Lower Layer Split ARP Address Resolution Protocol LTE Long Term Evolution ABW Antenna Bandwidth MAC Medium Access Layer BBU Baseband Unit MBSFN Multimedia Broadcast multicast service Single Frequency Network BER Bit Error Ratio MCU Microprogrammed Control Unit BERT Bit Error Rate Tester MPLS Multi-Protocol Label Switching BH Backhaul MIMO Multiple Inputs Multiple Outputs BiDi Bidirectional MNO Mobile Network Operator BTCA Best TimeTransmitter Clock Algorithm BS Base Station MRTD Maximum Receive Time Difference BW Bandwidth NGMN Next Generation Mobile Network CAPEX Capital Expense MUX/DEMUX Multiplexer/Demultiplexer CBS Committed Burst Size NR New Radio CFP Common Form factor Pluggable NSA Non-Stand Alone CIR Committed Information Rate NSSI Subnet Networking Slices Instance CN Core Network OAM Operation Administration Maintenance CoMP Coordinated Multipoint O-CU O-RAN Central Unit CP Control Plane O-DU O-RAN Distributed Unit CPRI Common Public Radio Interface OPEX Operation Expense CSR Cell Site Router O-RU O-RAN Radio Unit CU Central Unit PCF Policy Control Function DC Data Center PDCP Packet Data Convergence Protocol DL Downlink ppb Parts per billion DN Data Network PRB Physical Resource Block DHCP Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol PRTC Primary Reference Telecom Clock DSCP Differentiated Services Codepoint PTP Precision Time Protocol dTEH Dynamic Time Error High OFDM Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing dTEL Dynamic Time Error Low QAM Quadrature Amplitude Modulation DU Distributed Unit QoS Quality of Service eCPRI evolved Common Public Radio QSFP Quad SFP Interface eMBB enhanced Mobile Broadband RB Resource Block eNB Evolved NodeB RRH Remote Radio Head EP Ethernet Private RU Radio Unit EPC Evolved Packet Core SCS Sub Carrier Spacing EPL Ethernet Private Line SCTP Stream Control Transmission Protocol ePRC Enhanced Primary Reference Clock SFF Small Form Factor ePRTC Enhanced Primary Reference Telecom SFP Small Form factor Pluggable Clock E-UTRA evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio SLA Service Level Agreement Access EVP Ethernet Virtual Private SOH Shared O-RU Host EVPL Ethernet Virtual Private Line SRO Shared Resource Operator FDD Frequency Division Duplex TAE Time Alignment Error FFO Fractional Frequency Offset T-BC Telecom Boundary Clock FFS For Further Study TDD Time Division Duplex FH Fronthaul TE Time Error (in the context of synchronization) FLR Frame Loss Ratio T-GM Telecom Grand Master TT TimeTransmitter TR TimeReceiver FR1 Frequency Range 1 TN Transport Node FR2 Frequency Range 2 TNE Transport Network Equipment FTTH Fiber To The Home T-TSC Telecom Time Synchronous Clock gNB gNodeB TX Transmit GNSS Global Navigation Satellite System UDP User Datagram Protocol GPRS General Packet Radio Service UE User equipment GTP GPRS Tunnelling Protocol UL Uplink HSR Hub Site Router UNI Universal Network Interface ICMP Internet Control Message Protocol UNI-C UNI-Customer edge IoT Internet of Things UPF User Plane Function IP Internet Protocol URLLC Ultra-Reliable Low Latency Communication IQ In phase Quadrature VPN Virtual Private Network WDM Wavelength Division Multiplexing

# 6 Test approach and methodology
This section provides a definition of test use cases in Open Xhaul transport networks.

## 6.1 System under test

# 4 This specification covers cases that test:
1. Xhaul networks from a UNI interface to another UNI interface 2. Xhaul network segments that carry traffic for an overlay network.

# 7 3. Individual TNEs or their components

# 10 Figure 6-1: Xhaul Transport Networks
Figure 6-1 depicts a simplified overview of Xhaul transport networks that are composed of Fronthaul, Midhaul and Backhaul. The first category of test cases covers the network segments between UNI interfaces of Fronthaul, Midhaul or Backhaul. These test cases do not cross the O-DU or O-CU, and remain within the same network (Fronthaul, Midhaul, or Backhaul). Beyond these UNI interfaces, there may be other UNI interfaces within the individual Xhaul networks. Figure 6-2 illustrates one use case that includes UNI interfaces within a Fronthaul Network. An example is the use of a WDM physical interface (layer below) between packet-based solutions (layer above). Other use cases include -but are not limited to- use of wireless, PON, or DOCSIS infrastructure in Backhaul, Midhaul, or Fronthaul if the underlying technologies meet the necessary SLAs.

## 6.2 Testing Parameters
The test cases in this specification relate to the metrics listed in existing WG9 requirement and solution documents. Examples include throughput, delay, time error or optical power level.

## 6.3 Testing Methodologies

# 8 Test methodologies can be categorized as follows:

# 9 - Equipment level vs. network level test

# 10 - Technology specific test methodologies
The equipment level tests verify the functionality or performance of an individual equipment or its components and are covered in the next section. The network level tests perform tests from a network UNI to another UNI across one or multiple equipment and are described in remaining chapters of this document. There are technology specification test cases. Optical layer tests perform tests at optical layer, they include power level or wavelength measurements. Packet layer tests use packet-based methods that generate and analyse Ethernet/eCPRI packets. Synchronization tests include measurements of time or frequency error that measure synchronizations signal or PTP timestamps against a reference signal that may be derived from a GNSS receiver. They may need to emulate a PTP timeTransmitter or timeReceiver function to be able to perform these measurements.

## 6.4 General (solution/technology agnostic) test use cases

# 3 6.4.1.1 TNE board extraction – insertion
Test ID Equipment.01 Classification Functionality Test Title TNE board extraction – insertion Test Objective: The aim of the test is to check the system behavior in case of line board is physically removed from the TME shelf Pre-Req Running service will be interrupted Test Topology: Procedure: Detailed Test procedure: Test Procedure: 1. TNE is connected to another TNE or O-RU/DU/CU & NGC/EPC, all services are running as defined in Traffic and services configuration. 2. Make a line board extraction. 3. Wait 2 minutes. 4. Make a line board insertion. Verifications needed: 1. Verify that traffic and services emulation is running correctly after operation. 2. Check services recovery time after line board extraction and insertion. 3. Check generation and clearance of proper alarms. Test Configuration Xhaul traffic and RAN services configuration Pass/Fail Criteria: All services MUST recover after extraction and insertion of line board Results [ ] Pass [ ] Pass w/X [ ] Dropped [ ] Blocked [ ] Failed Test Output First service recovery time in seconds: Last service recovery time in seconds:

# 3 Alarm on board reset and plug out.
Test ID Alarm & Monitoring.01 Classification Functionality Test Title Alarm on board reset and plug out Test Objective: The aim of the test is to check if TNE send and cleared alarm when board is rebooted or plugout/plugin Pre-Req Running service will be interrupted Test Topology: Procedure: Detailed Test procedure: Test Procedure & Verifications needed: 1. Perform a board reset/reboot. 2. Measure and report the duration to raise the alarm from the line/interface disconnection. 3. After board recover 4. Measure and report the duration to clear the alarm from the line/interface disconnection. 5. Perform a board plug-out. 6. Measure and report the duration to raise the alarm from the line/interface disconnection. 7. Perform a board plugin. 8. Measure and report the duration to clear the alarm from the line/interface disconnection Test Configuration Xhaul traffic and RAN services configuration Pass/Fail Criteria: 1- Alarm reported within 1 minute on step 2 and 6 2- Alarm cleared within 1 minute on step 4 and 8 Results [ ] Pass [ ] Pass w/X [ ] Dropped [ ] Blocked [ ] Failed Test Output Alarms is reported xx second. Alarms is cleared xx second

#### 6.4.3.5 No Loss Of Signal alarm for Dying Gasp (DG) alarm

#### 6.4.3.6 Transceiver (SFP, QSFP,…) Rx optical power alarm threshold
Test ID Alarm & Monitoring.06 Classification Functionality Test Title Transceiver (SFP, QSFP,…) Rx optical power alarm threshold Test Objective: The aim of the test is to check if the transceiver received optical power parameters exceed warning high and low threshold then alarm is reported. When Rx signal is lower and higher than threshold defined then alarm is cleared properly. Pre-Req Running service will be interrupted Test Topology: Procedure: Detailed Test procedure: Test Procedure and Verifications needed: 1. Configure Rx power parameter threshold high and low. 2. Connect variable optical attenuator and change optical power. Rx signal must be higher than the threshold range. 3. Measure and report the duration to raise the alarm. 4. Check that alarm is cleared if Rx power is in the threshold range. 5. Measure and report the duration to clear the alarm. 6. Connect variable optical attenuator and change optical power. Rx signal must be lower than the threshold range. 7. Measure and report the duration to raise the alarm. 8. Check that alarm is cleared if Rx power is in the threshold range. 9. Measure and report the duration to clear the alarm. Test Configuration Xhaul traffic and RAN services configuration Pass/Fail Criteria: 1- Alarm “RX high power” reported within 1 minute on step 2 2- Alarm “RX high power” cleared within 1 minute on step 4 3- Alarm “RX low power” reported within 1 minute on step 6 4- Alarm “RX low power” cleared within 1 minute on step 8 Results [ ] Pass [ ] Pass w/X [ ] Dropped [ ] Blocked [ ] Failed Test Output Alarm “RX high power” is reported xx second. Alarm “RX high power” is cleared xx second. Alarm “RX low power” is reported xx second. Alarm “RX low power” is cleared xx second

#### 6.4.3.7 Transceiver (SFP, QSFP,…) Tx optical power alarm threshold
Test ID Alarm & Monitoring.07 Classification Functionality Test Title Transceiver (SFP, QSFP,…) Tx optical power alarm threshold Test Objective: The aim of the test is to check if the Ethernet transceiver emitted optical power parameters exceed warning high and low threshold then alarm is reported. When Tx signal is lower and higher than threshold defined then alarm is cleared properly. Pre-Req Running service will be interrupted Test Topology: Procedure: Detailed Test procedure: Test Procedure and Verifications needed: 1. Configure Tx power parameter threshold high, Tx signal must be higher than the threshold range. 2. Measure and report the duration to raise the alarm. 3. Configure Tx power parameter threshold high, Tx signal must be in the threshold range. 4. Check that alarm is cleared. 5. Measure and report the duration to clear the alarm. 6. Configure Tx power parameter threshold low, Tx signal must be lower than the threshold range. 7. Measure and report the duration to raise the alarm. 8. Configure Tx power parameter threshold low, Tx signal must be in the threshold range. 9. Check that alarm is cleared. 10. Measure and report the duration to clear the alarm. Test Configuration Xhaul traffic and RAN services configuration Pass/Fail Criteria: 1- Alarm “TX high power” reported within 1 minute on step 2 2- Alarm “TX high power” cleared within 1 minute on step 4 3- Alarm “TX low power” reported within 1 minute on step 7 4- Alarm “TX low power” cleared within 1 minute on step 9 Results [ ] Pass [ ] Pass w/X [ ] Dropped [ ] Blocked [ ] Failed Test Output Alarm “TX high power” is reported xx second. Alarm “TX high power” is cleared xx second. Alarm “TX low power” is reported xx second. Alarm “TX low power” is cleared xx second. xx is to be defined by the vendor.

# 7 WDM-based Fronthaul Transport Testing
Fronthaul in O-RAN is defined as the connectivity in the RAN infrastructure between the Distributed Unit (O-

# 3 DU) and Radio Unit (O-RU).

## 7.1 Fronthaul Testing use cases.

# 6 7.1.1 Transmit Power
Test ID DWDM.HEE.01 Classification Functionality Test Title Transmitting power at the DWDM head end equipment (HEE) Test Objective: To test transmitting power levels at the HEE Pre-Req Running service will be interrupted Test Topology: Refer to O-RAN.WG9.WDM-v01.00, Section 2.3 Semi-Active WDM system Required tester Optical power meter (OPM), optical spectrum analyzer (OSA) Test Configuration 1. Disable all the other transmitters (e.g. Tx ) which are NOT under test; n Procedure: Detailed Test procedure: 1. Connect the OPM and OSA to the reference points shown in the above test configuration. 2. Read the power level of Ref. 1 (Client Tx). 3. Read the power level of Ref. 2 (Network Tx). 4. Read the power level of Ref. 3 (Network Port of OM/OD) 5. Measure the center frequency and the optical spectrum at Ref. 3 (Network Port of OM/OD) 6. To carry out the procedure for all the other transmitters.

# O P M
R e f. 1 C lie n T x R x T x

# D M
R H e E f. 2

# E / O - D U
DO/MO R e

# O P
f. 3 M O O ➔ -D U  -D U

# O P M

# O S A O
O -R -R U U Verifications needed: 1. Record Tx power readings from the host network management. Pass/Fail Criteria: 1. Tx power at Ref. 1 should be -8 to 0 dBm. 2. Tx power at Ref. 2 complies with O-RAN.WG9.WDM-v01.00, Table 6-10, depending on the pluggable variants. 3. Tx power at Ref. 3 should be within the range of Ref. 2 deducting maximum insertion loss of 4.6 dB. 4. Optical spectrum complies with O-RAN.WG9.WDM-v01.00, Table 6-10, depending on the pluggable variants. Test Output Interface Network Mgmt. OPM Tx power (dBm) Tx power (dBm) Client Network OM/OD

# O P M
lie n T x R x T x

# P M
t w o T x R x T x

# D M
R e H f. 2

# E E
V / O O A
- D U
DO/MO R e f. 3 O O - - D D U U ➔  O O - - R R U U Pass/Fail Criteria: 1. Rx power at Ref. 2 complies with O-RAN.WG9.WDM-v01.00, Table 6-10, depending on the pluggable variants. Test Output Interface Network Mgmt. OPM Rx power (dBm) Rx power (dBm) Network

# W D M
R H e f. 2

# E E / O - D U
R e f. 3 O O -D -D U U ➔  O O -R -R U U OM/OD R e f. 4 N W e tw o T x1 R x1

# D M
rk

# T E E
C / O lie n T x1 R x1
- R
t U 3. Enable the channel ports (laser on) and optionally testing traffic. 4. Plug and enable the TE transceiver under test into the O-RU (passive WDM) or remote WDM equipment. 5. Connect fibers between the TE transceiver and one of the provisioned OM/OD ports. 6. Monitor and read the Rx signal at the corresponding HE transceiver. 7. Repeat Step 5 and 6 for the other OM/OD ports. Verifications needed: 1. Verify whether the TE transceiver can be automatically tuned to the correct uplink frequency. 2. Verify whether the channel status at the WDM HEE/O-DU is “link up” and read the received optical power. 3. Record the time duration from the moment connecting the OM/OD port to the TE transceiver being auto tuned. 4. Optionally verify whether the traffic is resumed. The traffic needs to be looped back from the WDM TEE/O-RU. Pass/Fail Criteria: 1. After power cycle or being reconnected to a new OM/OD port, the TE transceiver is automatically tuned to the correct uplink frequency. 2. Rx power at Ref. 2 complies with O-RAN.WG9.WDM-v01.00, Table 6-10, depending on the pluggable variants. 3. Optionally the traffic can be resumed. Test Output TE Channel Frequency Tuning Time Link Status Rx Power at HE

# W D M

# T R x
H O E

# S A E
T x R x P / O - D U MO OD

# W D M
O T S E A IL

# E / O - Ia

# R U
Ina Verifications needed: 1. OSA settings shall be always kept the same. 2. For the measurement of each wanted channel, at least one I and one I a na shall be measured. 3. If more than one I or I are measured, always take the smallest (worst) a na value from the result set. Pass/Fail Criteria: 1. Depending on the type of WDM OM/OD, IL, I , and I shall be compliant a na with O-RAN.WG9.WDM-v01.00, Table 9-10. 2. The actual tolerable inter-channel crosstalk (C in dB) for 100GHz-spaced c DWDM is specified in G.698.1, Tables 8-1 to 8-4. C can be calculated c following: −𝐼𝑎 −𝐼𝑛𝑎 𝐶 =𝑑+10log[2×1010 +(𝑘−3)10 10 ] 𝐶 where d is the maximum allowable power difference of a particular transceiver type specified in O-RAN.WG9.WDM-v01.00 Test Output WDM Type Transceiver Channel IL I I a na e.g. DWDM e.g. 10G, or MWDM 25G, BiDi Test ID WDM.crosstalk.02 Classification Functionality Test Title WDM Xhaul transport interferometric crosstalk Test Objective: To verify if the OM/OD meets the isolation specification of a WDM transport link with add/drop nodes Pre-Req Test Topology: Applicable to O-RAN.WG9.WDM-v01.00, Passive, Semi-Active, and Active WDM fronthaul system Required tester Optical spectrum analyzer (OSA) Test Configuration OSA shall be capable of a sensitivity of at least -65 dBm Procedure: Detailed Test procedure: 1. Provision and enable a WDM transceiver for the respective WDM solution (e.g., DWDM, MWDM), of which the channel is dropped at the measured OD (i.e. OD 1 in the test example); 2. Follow the procedure specified in WDM.crosstalk.01 (Step 2 to 6). 3. Measure the spectrum peak power at the OD network port to calculate the insolation (I) for interferometric crosstalk. i Note: The signal from the first source will be extinguished by the OADMs where the channel is dropped, and the interferometric crosstalk will be dominated by the performance of the last OADM that dropped and added that channel. This interferometric crosstalk, therefore, does not constrain the number of OADMs in a link. [Ref to G.698.1] Verifications needed: 1. OSA settings shall be always kept the same. 2. For the measurement of each wanted channel, at least one I and one I a na shall be measured.

# W D M

# T R x
H O E

# S A E
T x R x P / O - D U MO

# O D 1
IL Ii

# W D
O M S O A T D E n

# E / O - R U
3. If more than one I or I are measured, always take the smallest (worst) a na value from the result set. Pass/Fail Criteria: 1. Depending on the type of WDM OM/OD, IL, I , and I shall be compliant a na with O-RAN.WG9.WDM-v01.00, Table 9-10. 2. The actual tolerable interferometric crosstalk for 100GHz-spaced DWDM is specified in G.698.1, Tables 8-1 to 8-4. Test Output WDM Type Transceiver Dropped IL I I I a na i Channel e.g. DWDM e.g. 10G, or MWDM 25G, BiDi

# O T D
O R
- D
ecnatcelfeR

# U S
D i d Rs c U D e a y a t U let e ig h r in O g RDTO T R D P e R r o s p b o e n P R s Ls R o u ro b e e s p o n s P ro b e R e s p o e o s s y p lic e n e n d s e
- tr
F F ip tim i b r e i b r e e D eR me a r f le cc R R O t t a t t o U U - P e r P e r ior

# R U
h y s f i b m i n h y s f i b m i n n R T im S i d i c a l r ea t i o i c a l r ea t i o T e e n n 4. For measuring any wavelength asymmetry, CWDM, DWDM or tunable OTDR source is required. Note 1: Link asymmetry compensation is elaborated in Appendix IV, ITU-T G.8271/Y.1366 (03/2020). Note 2: OTDR is specified as a fiber link monitoring for WDM systems in ITU-T G.697. Procedure: Detailed Test procedure: 1. Insert the OTDR at the optical transmitter interface (e.g.O-DU/CSR output, WDM HEE Tx, etc.); 2. If possible, insert also a demarcation reflector in front of the actual fiber termination; 3. Configure the pulse length, wavelength, measurement duration etc. of the OTDR, according to the expected link range; 4. The round-trip latency can be calculated between the start event of pulse launch and the end/demarcation reflective event, and the one-way latency of the measured link is exactly half of it; 5. In case of measuring the latency of multiple wavelengths, change the OTDR wavelength accordingly and repeat Step 3-4; 6. In case of measuring the latency of multiple links from the same transmitter side, switch the OTDR connection to another link and repeat Step 3-5. Pass/Fail Criteria: 1. Informative result only Test Output Link Transceiver Channel RTL Asymmetry e.g. 10G, 25G, BiDi

# 4 7 4 7 4 7 4 7 4 7 4
.5 .5 .5 .5 .5 .5 .5 .5 .5 .5 .5 .5 Max shift of central wavelength nm ± 1.2 dB bandwidth nm ≥ 5.0 Max Insertion loss @ O-RU+O- DU pairs, including the IL of an dB 6.1 6.1 6.1 6.1 6.1 6.1 4.5 4.5 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 optical splitter Test Output

# 8 Packet-Switched Architectures and Solutions Testing

# 3 - Generalized basic verification test.

# 4 - Service level tests

# 5 - Network element test

# 6 - Additional network tests
The first section covers the most common and basic packet tests of an Xhaul network (from a UNI interface to another UNI interface). The second section delivers test cases for service level testing at UNI interfaces. The third section is limited to testing the functions of a packet-switched Transport Network Element (TNE). The last section provides other test cases outside of the above the three categories.

## 8.1 Generalized basic verification methods for Xhaul Transport packet
switched Network. This section covers the most common and basic verification methods using Traffic Generator and Analyzer tool. Table 8.1-1summarizes the encapsulation of traffic streams combination of which shall be used in generalized verification methods that must be executed to validate any transport network. Trans Traffic Packet Encapsulation VLAN PCP DSCP bits Frame port stream bits Size (min, Netw max) ork Type Fronth Split option Option 1 –Ethernet + eCPRI As per aul 7-2x eCPRI network U-plane and Option 2 – Ethernet + VLAN + 7 (default) As per C-plane eCPRI network traffic Option 3 – Ethernet + IPv4 + UDP EF As per + eCPRI network Option 4 - Ethernet + VLAN + IPv4 7 (default) EF As per + UDP + eCPRI network Option 5 – Ethernet + IPv6 + UDP EF As per + eCPRI network Option 6 - Ethernet + VLAN + IPv6 7 (default) EF As per + UDP + eCPRI network M-plane Option 1 –Ethernet + IPv4 + AF2x As per Traffic Netconf network Option 2 – Ethernet + VLAN + IPv4 2 (default) AF2x As per + Netconf network Option 3 – Ethernet + IPv6 + AF2x As per Netconf network Option 4 - Ethernet + VLAN + IPv6 2 (default) AF2x As per + Netconf network RoE Traffic Option 1 - Ethernet + RoE As per network Option 2 - Ethernet + VLAN + RoE 7 (default) As per network Midha User plane Option 1 – Ethernet + IPv4 As per QoS As per ul and control scheme of the network plane traffic network Option 2 – Ethernet + VLAN + IPv4 As per QoS As per QoS As per scheme of scheme of the network the network network Option 3 – Ethernet + IPv6 As per QoS As per scheme of the network network Option 4 – Ethernet + VLAN + IPv6 As per QoS As per QoS As per scheme of scheme of the network the network network M-plane Option 1 – Ethernet + IPv4 As per QoS As per traffic scheme of the network network Option 2 – Ethernet + VLAN + IPv4 As per QoS As per QoS As per scheme of scheme of the network the network network Option 3 – Ethernet + IPv6 As per QoS As per scheme of the network network Option 4 – Ethernet + VLAN + IPv6 As per QoS As per QoS As per scheme of scheme of the network the network network Backh User plane Option 1 – Ethernet + IPv4 As per QoS As per aul and control scheme of the network plane traffic network Option 2 – Ethernet + VLAN + IPv4 As per QoS As per QoS As per scheme of scheme of the network the network network Option 3 – Ethernet + IPv6 As per QoS As per scheme of the network network Option 4 – Ethernet + VLAN + IPv6 As per QoS As per QoS As per scheme of scheme of the network the network network M-plane Option 1 – Ethernet + IPv4 As per QoS As per traffic scheme of the network network Option 2 – Ethernet + VLAN + IPv4 As per QoS As per QoS As per scheme of scheme of the network the network network Option 3 – Ethernet + IPv6 As per QoS As per scheme of the network network Option 4 – Ethernet + VLAN + IPv6 As per QoS As per QoS As per scheme of scheme of the network the network network

# 4 FH BW = 2×10−9(1+𝑐)
𝑣 𝑙𝑎𝑦𝑒𝑟 𝑁𝑃𝑅𝐵(12𝑁 𝑚𝑎𝑛𝑡𝑖𝑠𝑠𝑎 +𝑁𝑒𝑥𝑝𝑜𝑛𝑒𝑛𝑡) (Gbps) 𝜇 𝑇 𝑠 𝑣 is the maximum number of supported layers. 𝑙𝑎𝑦𝑒𝑟 𝑁 is the maximum RB allocation for a given channel bandwidth and numerology 𝜇 𝑃𝑅𝐵

# 7 𝑁 is the number of mantissa bits.
𝑚𝑎𝑛𝑡𝑖𝑠𝑠𝑎

# 8 𝑁 is the number of the exponent bits.
𝑒𝑥𝑝𝑜𝑛𝑒𝑛𝑡 𝜇 𝜇 10−3 𝑇 is the average OFDM symbol duration in a subframe for numerology, i.e., 𝑇 = 𝑠 𝑠 14 ×2𝜇 𝑐 is C-plane overhead. For downlink 𝑐 ≈ 10% and for uplink 𝑐 ≈ 0 Table 8.1-2 provides some examples for peak fronthaul bandwidth calculated for different scenarios assuming 𝑁 = 9 and 𝑁 = 4 𝑚𝑎𝑛𝑡𝑖𝑠𝑠𝑎 𝑒𝑥𝑝𝑜𝑛𝑒𝑛𝑡 Number of CBW (MHz) 𝜇 MIMO Layers ABW (MHz) FH BW (Gbps) Sectors

# 15 Table 8.1-2
The above estimate does not include protocol encapsulation overhead which should be added based upon encapsulation type and average packet size. Table 8.1-3 provides traffic profiles to be used to simulate eCPRI traffic for Fronthaul network testing Traffic Packet Stream Stream Property Traffic Load Profile Encapsulation Pattern percentage and QoS marking FH eCPRI As per Table Constant Frame size = maximum allowed frame 20%,50%,100% traffic 8.1-1 Bit Rate size profile 1 Frame rate = as calculated using the formula for peak fronthaul bandwidth * traffic load percentage FH eCPRI As per Table Constant Frame size = minimum allowed frame size 20%,50%,100% traffic 8.1-1 Bit Rate Frame rate = as calculated using the profile 2 formula for peak fronthaul bandwidth * traffic load percentage FH eCPRI As per Table Constant Frame size = Random or any other 20%,50%,100% traffic 8.1-1 Bit Rate distribution such as custom, IMIX, profile 3 Gaussian etc. Frame rate = as calculated using the formula for peak fronthaul bandwidth * traffic load percentage FH eCPRI As per Table Burst Frame size = maximum allowed frame 20%,50%,100% traffic 8.1-1 size profile 4 Gap between two consecutive bursts = 1 ms or less Frame Count in burst is such that average frame rate ≈ calculated peak fronthaul bandwidth * traffic load percentage FH eCPRI As per Table Burst Frame size = minimum allowed frame size 20%,50%,100% traffic 8.1-1 Gap between two consecutive bursts = 1 profile 5 ms or less Frame Count in burst is such that average frame rate ≈ calculated peak fronthaul bandwidth * traffic load percentage

# 9 Table 8.1-4
Figure 8.1-1 depicts a generic test set up for network under test with Traffic Generator and Analyzer tool. Xhaul Transport Network Two or more Ethernet ports connected to UNIs of Traffic Generantoetrw ork. and Analyzer

# 16 Figure 8.1-1

# 18 8.1.1 Forwarding Verification
Once the required combination of traffic streams is set up in Traffic Generator and Analyzer Tool with desired scale of source and destination endpoints in transport layer (for example thousands of Ethernet/IPv4/IPv6 endpoints), steps from table 8.1.1-1 shall be executed. Since this step is to just ensure basic forwarding capability, the configured rate of the traffic streams could be low. Test Steps Expected result Send traffic streams with minimum and maximum No frames shall be dropped by network frame size and verify that no frames are dropped from the counters of Traffic Generator and Analyzer tool

# 25 Table 8.1.1-1

# 23 Table 8.1.2-1
8.1.3 RFC 2544 Benchmarking test for frame loss rate, latency, throughput Once results from 8.1.1 and 8.1.2 are satisfactory, RFC 2544 benchmarking tests shall be executed for frame loss, latency, and throughput as mentioned in table 8.1.3-1. Test Steps Expected result RFC 2544 frame loss test Maximum rate achieved for each class of traffic Execute RFC 2544 frame loss test starting with stream shall be equal to more than the demand of 100% interface speed and different frame size (as respective application. an example 70, 100, 250, 300, 400, 500, 600, 700, 800, 900, 1000, 1100, 1200, 1300, 1400, 1500, 1522 bytes or up to size of jumbo frames if they are supported) for each class of traffic stream identified. Test duration for each iteration should be120 seconds minimum. Observe the maximum rate achieved for each class of stream without any frame loss. RFC 2544 latency test Maximum latency measured for each traffic stream Execute RFC 2544 latency test with maximum rate shall be within tolerable latency limit of respective achieved in previous step without any frame loss application. and different frame size (as an example 70, 100, 250, 300, 400, 500, 600, 700, 800, 900, 1000, 1100, 1200, 1300, 1400, 1500, 1522 bytes) for each class of traffic stream identified. Test duration for each iteration should be120 seconds minimum. Observe the minimum, maximum, average latency, and delay variation for each class of stream without any frame loss. RFC 2544 throughput test Throughput achieved without any loss and within While executing previous step also measure the tolerable latency limit shall meet the application throughput achieved without any loss demand.

## 8.2 Service Level Test Cases
This section covers the baseline test case scenarios to be validated for service and underlying transport network setup. These scenarios utilize general basic verification mentioned in Section 8.1 and can also be used in various other Network Testing use cases mentioned in section 8.4. Although the test cases and their respective topologies shown in this section shows a single interface simulating the O-RU and O-DU connecting to the CSR and HSR, it is recommended that basic functionality for Fronthaul scenarios involving multiple O-RU’s connected to the CSR should also be verified as part of these test cases. This verification will help in ensuring real-life deployments, where a lot of time multiple O- RU’s (or its simulated interfaces) are connected to the same CSR are covered. Some of these “typical” scenarios are covered in WG9 - Xhaul Transport Requirements specification, specifically Table 4. A sample scenario with 1 and 3 O-RU’s, each representing a sector, along with the bandwidth requirements for FH is shown below. Please note that this is just an example and actual test and deployment scenario may vary, some of which are documented in the Xhaul Transport Requirements specification Cell Size Sectors Total CBW MIMO ABW FH BW (MHz) Layers (MHz) (Gbps) Small 1 - Medium 3 100 4 1200 23 Large 3 100 16 4800 90

# 19 Table 8.2-1
It is also recommended to use “background traffic” alongside the Split 7-2x eCPRI traffic on the CSR and HSR as well. Another interface for this background traffic will be used from test equipment to the O-RU and O-DU. This ethernet interface will carry “other” traffic such as Wireline or Enterprise traffic, primarily in the form on MPLS L3VPN. Each of the testcases in this section reflect the topology with additional interface for background traffic. In the following test cases a Traffic Gen (also referred to as an O-DU or O-RU simulator) is used to generate and analyze test traffic towards O-RU or O-DU. It is connected directly to a CSR or an HSR port that usually connects to an O-RU or an O-DU. For illustration purposes the O-RU or O-DU are left in the test setup diagrams, although they are not needed for the test application.

# 8 8.2.1 Baseline 7-2x eCPRI transport over Packetized Fronthaul
Test ID Ethernet.FH.01 Classification Fronthaul Services Test Title Baseline 7-2x eCPRI transport over Packetized Fronthaul Test Objective: 1. Verify O-RU – O-DU communication over packetized Fronthaul network using SR-MPLS and/or SRv6 based transport Pre-Req SR-MPLS and/or SRv6 baseline configuration on CSR, HSR and any other Fronthaul routers Optional Timing and syn configuration through FH network for RAN Nodes if actual O-RU and O-DU are used instead of O-RU and O-DU simulators Test Topology: Test Configuration 1. Connect O-RU or O-RU simulator to the UNI of the CSR and O-DU or O-DU simulator to the HSR. 2. Although not required for this baseline test, 1 or more routers should be used in the Fronthaul test network for future test cases (SRTE, Redundancy, etc) 3. Configure L2 transport service between CSR and HSR from O-RU Uni to O-DU Uni using L2 VPN or EVPN VPWS or both 4. Connect a tester to O-RU and O-DU to send simulated UE traffic 5. If actual O-RU and O-DU are used, connect a tester to O-RU and O-DU to send simulated UE traffic. If not, send eCPRI 7-2x traffic directly from simulators. Procedure: Detailed Test procedure: 1. Verify O-RU and O-DU are up and communicating if actual O-RU and O-DU are used instead of simulators. 2. Start bi-directional eCPRI traffic through CSR and HSR between the RAN node, or their simulators, verify traffic is being received on either ends. 3. Simultaneously send background L3VPN traffic using the additional ethernet interface on CSR and HSR. Ensure that combined eCPRI and L3VPN traffic do not exceed CSR and HSR’s uplink capacity. 4. Execute Test cases documented in Sections 8.1 and 8.4 using both SR-MPLS and/or SRv6 based transport Pass/Fail Criteria: 1. 100% successful 7-2x eCPRI traffic transport between O-RU and O-DU, or their simulators 2. 100% successful background L3VPN traffic transport through the packetized Fronthaul 3. Verify traffic stats on: a. Test equipment b. O-RU and O-DU, if possible c. CSR and HSR interface and L2VPN/EVPN VPWS service counters 4. The test topology and setup could be used for more granular test cases and measurements (various traffic mix, Latency, etc) documented in Section 8.4 Test Output Capture configuration used for reference. Capture verification commands (show commands) as appropriate.

### 8.2.2 Constraints based 7-2x eCPRI transport over Packetized Fronthaul
using Headend Path calculation Test ID Ethernet.FH.02 Classification Fronthaul Services Test Title Constraints based 7-2x eCPRI transport over Packetized Fronthaul using Headend Path calculation Test Objective: 1. Verify O-RU – O-DU communication over packetized Fronthaul network using SR-MPLS and/or SRv6 based transport Pre-Req SR-MPLS and/or SRv6 baseline configuration on CSR, HSR and any other Fronthaul routers Optional Timing and syn configuration through FH network for RAN Nodes, if actual O-RU and O-DU are used instead of O-RU and O-DU simulators Test Topology: Same as described in Ethernet.FH.01 Test Configuration 1. Connect O-RU or the O-RU simulator to the UNI of the CSR, and O-DU or O-DU simulator to the HSR. 2. 1 or more routers should be used in the Fronthaul test network to ensure constrains based path calculation. 3. Configure L2 transport service between CSR and HSR from O-RU Uni to O-DU Uni using L2 VPN or EVPN VPWS or both 4. Connect an additional interface from traffic generator to the CSR and the HSR to carry the background L3VPN traffic. The CSR and HSR should be pre- configured with L3VPN services to carry this background traffic. 5. If actual O-RU and O-DU are used, connect a tester to O-RU and O-DU to send simulated UE traffic. If not, send eCPRI 7-2x traffic directly from simulators. Procedure: Detailed Test procedure: 1. Verify O-RU and O-DU are up and communicating if actual O-RU and O-DU are used instead of simulators. 2. Start bi-directional eCPRI traffic through CSR and HSR between the RAN nodes, or their simulators 3. Verify traffic is being received on either ends using shortest IGP path between CSR and HSR. 4. Simultaneously send background L3VPN traffic using the additional ethernet interface on CSR and HSR. Ensure that combined eCPRI and L3VPN traffic do not exceed CSR and HSR’s uplink capacity. 5. Configure an SRTE policy defining a constrain based path, different than the IGP shortest path. SRTE policy should use Headend (CSR or HSR) based path calculation. 6. Constraints may include: a. Include or exclude certain links. b. Lowest latency path (latency may be increased on the IGP shortest path to force a longer IGP path but with lower latency c. Use of Flex-Algo to enforce path selection. 7. Apply the policy to the L2VPN/EVPN VPWS service as well as L3VPN services using static configuration or route-coloring. 8. Execute Test cases documented in Sections 8.1 and 8.4 using both SR-MPLS and/or SRv6 based transport Pass/Fail Criteria: 1. Verify traffic used IGP best path before applying SRTE Policy. 2. Verify route coloring and the use of SRTE policy for EVPN VPWS and L3VPN service between HSR and CSR once SRTE is configured. 3. Verify traffic used updated path based on constraints defined by SRTE policy. 4. Verify SID path list accurately reflects the path used by EVPN VPWS and L3VPN background traffic. 5. Ensure 100% traffic send/received success. 6. The test topology and setup could be used for more granular test cases and measurements (various traffic mix, Latency, etc) documented in 8. and 8.4. Test Output Capture configuration used for reference. Capture verification commands (show commands) as appropriate for: 7. Route coloring and SRTE policy use with EVPN VPWS and L3VPN. 8. SID list/SRTE Path calculation performed by headend

### 8.2.3 Constraints based 7-2x eCPRI transport over Packetized Fronthaul
using Controller based Path calculation. Test ID Ethernet.FH.03 Classification Fronthaul Services Test Title Constraints based 7-2x eCPRI transport over Packetized Fronthaul using Controller based Path calculation Test Objective: 1. Verify O-RU – O-DU communication over packetized Fronthaul network using SR-MPLS and/or SRv6 based transport and controller-based Path Calculation Pre-Req SR-MPLS and/or SRv6 baseline configuration on CSR, HSR and any other Fronthaul routers Optional Timing and syn configuration through FH network for RAN Nodes to sync if actual O-RU and O-DU are used instead of O-Ru and O-DU simulators SR PCE controller setup and communication with CSR/HSR through PCEP as shown in topology Test Topology: Test Configuration 1. Connect O-RU or O-RU simulator to the UNI of the CSR and O-DU or O-DU simulator to the HSR. 2. 1 or more routers should be used in the Fronthaul test network to ensure constrains based path calculation. 3. Configure L2 transport service between CSR and HSR from O-RU Uni to O-DU Uni using L2 VPN or EVPN VPWS or both 4. Connect an additional interface from traffic generator to the CSR and the HSR to carry the background L3VPN traffic. The CSR and HSR should be pre- configured with L3VPN services to carry this background traffic 5. If actual O-RU and O-DU are used, connect a tester to O-RU and O-DU to send simulated UE traffic. If not, send eCPRI 7-2x traffic directly from simulators. Procedure: Detailed Test procedure: 1. Verify O-RU and O-DU are up and communicating, if actual O-RU and O-DU are used instead of simulators. 2. Start bi-directional traffic between the RAN nodes, verify traffic is being received on either ends using shortest IGP path between CSR and HSR. 3. Start bi-directional eCPRI traffic through CSR and HSR between the RAN nodes, or their simulators. 4. Verify traffic is being received on either ends using shortest IGP path between CSR and HSR. 5. Simultaneously send background L3VPN traffic using the additional ethernet interface on CSR and HSR. Ensure that combined eCPRI and L3VPN traffic do not exceed CSR and HSR’s uplink capacity 6. Configure an SRTE policy defining a constrain based path, different than the IGP shortest path. 7. SRTE policy should use PCE controller-based path calculation. CSR and HSR should request this path calculation from PCE based on the constraints defined. 8. Constraints may include: a. Include or exclude certain links. b. Lowest latency path (latency may be increased on the IGP shortest path to force a longer IGP path but with lower latency c. Use of Flex-Algo to enforce path selection. 9. Apply the policy to the EVPN VPWS service as well as L3VPN services, using static configuration or route-coloring. 10. Execute Test cases documented in 8.1 and 8.4 using both SR-MPLS and/or SRv6 based transport Pass/Fail Criteria: 1. Verify traffic used IGP best path before applying SRTE Policy. 2. Verify route coloring and the use of SRTE policy for EVPN VPWS and L3VPN service between HSR and CSR once SRTE is configured. 3. Verify updated path is calculated on the PCE and sent to the HSR and CSR to use with SRTE policy. 4. Verify CSR and HSR install/use the path received from PCE for the SRTE policy 5. Verify traffic uses updated path based on constraints defined by SRTE policy and computed by PCE controller. 6. Verify SID path list accurately reflects the path used by EVPN VPWS and L3VPN traffic. 7. Ensure 100% success for traffic send and received. 8. The test topology and setup could be used for more granular test cases and measurements (various traffic mix, Latency, etc) documented in Sections 8.1 and 8.4. Test Output Capture configuration used for reference. Capture verification commands (show commands) as appropriate for: 1. Route coloring and SRTE policy use with EVPN VPWS. 2. PCEP communication between CSR/HSR and PCE 3. SRTE Path calculation performed by PCE. 4. SRTE Path installation and use by CSR/HSR

## 8.3 Network element testing

# 10 Gbps 0.124 μs

# 25 Gbps 0.05 μs
Pass/Fail Criteria: Test shall pass if some of preemptible traffic is fragmented and queuing delay of fronthaul traffic is bounded by 155 bytes transmission time on egress port. 155 bytes transmission time at individual line speed is mentioned in the table above. Test Output This section is the placeholder that will capture the output/configurations after test is executed, typically done after test execution Test ID ETH.PREEMPT.02 Classification Ethernet, Frame Preemption Test Title Reassembly of preemptible traffic by TNE supporting TSN profile B Test Objective: Verify reassembly capability of TNE supporting TSN profile B Pre-Req TNE supporting TSN profile B. This test needs to be done only at TNE interface speed of 1 Gbps/10 Gbps/25 Gbps. Test Topology: Interface speed: 1Gbps/10Gbps/25Gbps Test Configuration This section to be filled out when putting the test report (may include device and/or tester configuration) Procedure: Detailed Test procedure: 1. Enable TSN profile B and Frame Preemption on TNE port 1 and disable frame preemption on TNE port 2 2. From a tester port send interspersed fragments from same preemptible frame and express frames of various size according to the table below. Measure latency of express frames in case. Preemptible Fragment Fragment count Express Frame size Frame Size size (in interspersed with express interspersed with (in bytes) bytes) frame size fragments (in bytes) 256 64 4 64 to 2000 2048 128 8 64 to 2000 5000 256 8 64 to 2000 3. For each express frame size, also configure and send express traffic without any interspersed fragments or preemptible traffic. Measure latency of express traffic. 4. Observe latency experienced by reassembled frames by considering receive time of last bit of last fragment in the DUT and the last bit of reassembled frame in traffic generator port. Verifications needed: 1. Verify that TNE reassembles all the fragments and sends out a preemptible frame successfully on egress port for each combination. 2. Verify that express frame experiences almost same latency in step 2 as in step 3 since reassembly must not affect express frame latency. 3. Recorded latency in step 4 is only for information since there is no limit imposed on latency of fragmented frames. Pass/Fail Criteria: Test shall pass if above verification steps are successful Test Output This section is the placeholder that will capture the output/configurations after test is executed, typically done after test execution

## 8.4 Additional Network testing

# 3 • Traffic configuration
o Backhaul and midhaul traffic profile. o O-RAN fronthaul traffic profile

# 6 • Jumbo frame

# 7 • Auto-negotiation

# 8 • Frame Loss

# 9 • Latency TNE at minimum distance (0km)

# 10 • Throughput
- Latency TNE at 1, 10 and 20 km distance

### 8.4.1 Latency TNE at 1, 10 and 20 km distance
Test ID Ethernet.LAT.01 Classification Functionality Test Title Latency TNE with Xhaul link Test Objective: The aim of the test is to check the maximum latency at which the TNE receives and forwards frames with no frame loss per packet size with Xhaul link (fiber or Microwave link) Pre-Req Running service will be interrupted Test Topology: Procedure: Detailed Test procedure: Test Procedure: 1. TNE is connected to another TNE or O-RU/DU/CU & NGC/EPC by 1, 10 and 20 km using fibre loop or microwave link, all services are running as defined in Traffic and services configuration. 2. Send traffic for size of frames from 70 to 1522 bytes (70, 100, 250, 300, 400, 500, 600, 700, 800, 900, 1000, 1100, 1200, 1300, 1400, 1500, 1522) frame size. Traffic should be bidirectional. 3. The test should be at least 120 seconds in duration. Verifications needed: 1. Make measure and report Maximum Latency Rx and Tx rate for each size of frames in included table. 2. Make measure and report Minimum Latency Rx and Tx rate for each size of frames in included table. 3. Make measure and report Average Latency Rx and Tx rate for each size of frames in included table Test Configuration RFC2544 Pass/Fail Criteria: 1- Latency MUST be below 1ms 2- Latency SHOULD be in terms of tens of microseconds Results [ ] Pass [ ] Pass w/X [ ] Dropped [ ] Blocked [ ] Failed Test Output Latency frame Upstream Downstream size Average Minimum Maximum Average Minimum Maximum (us) (us) (us) (us) (us) (us)

# O -R U
U e C P R

# E V P N
n ta g g e d

# 8 0 2 .1 Q
Q in Q m I flo w

# V P W S
C e ll s ite

# C S R

# V L A N
a n ip u la tio n F r o n th a u l e C P R I

# H S R
H O u b s ite -D U W50: Thu 2014-12-11T16:29:48 WET (UTC+0000) encapsulation vlan-ccc; vlan-tags outer 0x8100:1681 inner 0x8100:1600; input-vlan-map pop; output-vlan-map { push; tag-protocol-id 0x8100; inner-tag-protocol-id 0x8100; } pop 2 kszarkowicz@AN17-re0# show interfaces ae1.1603 W50: Thu 2014-12-11T16:22:36 WET (UTC+0000) encapsulation vlan-ccc; vlan-tags outer 0x8100:1681 inner 0x8100:1603; input-vlan-map pop-pop; output-vlan-map { push-push; tag-protocol-id 0x8100; inner-tag-protocol-id 0x8100; } Pass/Fail Criteria: Traffic flows via EVPN VPWS service with all VLAN manipulation combinations. Results [ X ] Pass [ ] Pass w/X [ ] Dropped [ ] Blocked [ ] Failed Test Output

# 3 8.4.5 Test for frame fragmentation
Test ID Ethernet.FRAG.01 Classification Functionality Test Title Impact of fragmentation Test Objective: The aim of the test is to check the impacts of frame fragmentation in throughput, latency and delay variation with no frame loss per packet size (frame fragmentation occurs in the link between TNEs) Pre-Req N/A Test Topology: Procedure: Detailed Test procedure: Test Procedure: 1. TNE is connected to another TNE, and the MTU among them is lowr than the MTU allow at client side (i.e., O-RU / O-DU / O-CU). 2. Two frame sizes are established, one for client side and another one between TNEs. 3. Send traffic for size higher MTU at sending client port and verify permitted MTU at receiver port. 4. The test should be at least 120 seconds in duration. Verifications needed: 1. Make measure and report throughput, latency and jitter with and without fragmentation Test Configuration Pass/Fail Criteria: 1- Results [ ] Pass [ ] Pass w/X [ ] Dropped [ ] Blocked [ ] Failed Test Output

### 8.4.9 Support of IPv6 connectivity in an IPv4 network (dual stack)
To discuss if tunneling or translation methods should be detailed as separated tests or included here Test ID Ethernet.DUAL.01 Classification Functionality Test Title Support of IPv6 connectivity in an IPv4 network Test Objective: The aim of the test is to check the impacts due to the usage of IPv6 in O-RU, O-DU and O-CU when the underlying network is IPv4-based. IPv6 support is optional in ORAN-WG4.CUS. This is a functional test but can also have performance implications to be validates by collecting statistics of latency, jitter and throughput. Pre-Req Proper dual stack support (IPv4 and IPv6) by the TNEs Test Topology: Procedure: Detailed Test procedure: Test Procedure: 1. Define a native IPv4 connectivity in TNEs. 2. Perform connectivity between O-RU, O-DU and O-CU natively in IPv6 (if eCPRI is directly encapsulated in Eth, then this would apply solely to midhaul traffic). 3. The test should be at least 120 secs in duration. Verifications needed: 1. Validate IPv6 connectivity with dual stack capabilities in the TNEs. 2. Make measure and report traffic passing rate for each size of frames in included table, comparing with the scenario of native IPv4 connectivity. Test Configuration To be defined the mechanisms for IPv6 to IPv4 consideration Pass/Fail Criteria: Compare the results obtained for latency, jitter and throughput for the scenarios with and without background traffic. Results [ X ] Pass [ ] Pass w/X [ ] Dropped [ ] Blocked [ ] Failed Test Output The output of the tests will be the set of tables defined for latency, jitter and throughput, not repeated here for simplicity.

### 8.4.10 Support of IPv4 connectivity in an IPv6 network (dual stack)
To discuss if tunneling or translation methods should be detailed as separated tests or included here. Test ID Ethernet.DUAL.02 Classification Functionality Test Title Support of IPv4 connectivity in an IPv6 network Test Objective: The aim of the test is to check the impacts due to the usage of IPv4 in O-RU, O-DU and O-CU when the underlying network is IPv6-based. This is a functional test but can have also performance implications to be validates by collecting statistics of latency, jitter and throughput. Pre-Req Proper dual stack support (IPv4 and IPv6) by the TNEs Test Topology: Procedure: Detailed Test procedure: Test Procedure: 1. Define a native IPv4 connectivity in TNEs. 2. Perform connectivity between O-RU, O-DU and O-CU natively in IPv6 (if eCPRI is directly encapsulated in Eth, then this would apply solely to midhaul traffic). 3. The test should be at least 120 secs in duration. Verifications needed: 1. Validate IPv6 connectivity with dual stack capabilities in the TNEs. 2. Make measure and report traffic passing rate for each size of frames in included table, comparing with the scenario of native IPv4 connectivity. Test Configuration To be defined the mechanisms for IPv6 to IPv4 consideration Pass/Fail Criteria: Compare the results obtained for latency, jitter and throughput for the scenarios with and without background traffic. Results [ ] Pass [ ] Pass w/X [ ] Dropped [ ] Blocked [ ] Failed Test Output The output of the tests will be the set of tables defined for latency, jitter and throughput, not repeated here for simplicity.

# 3 8.4.12 Transparency of eCPRI Ethertype
Test ID Ethernet.ETHTYPE.01 Classification Functionality Test Title Transparency of eCPRI ethertype Test Objective: The aim of the test is to validate that eCPRI Ethertype is passed transparently and frames with such Ethertype are not discarded Pre-Req Test Topology: Procedure: Detailed Test procedure: To check if different encapsulations can have any impact. To check if the support of IEEE 1914 ethertype is also required. Test Procedure: 1. The tester will inject eCPRI frames with the corresponding eCPRI Ethertype. 2. The test should be at least 120 secs in duration. Verifications needed: 1. Validate that eCPRI Ethertype is transparently supported Test Configuration Pass/Fail Criteria: No loss frame Results [ ] Pass [ ] Pass w/X [ ] Dropped [ ] Blocked [ ] Failed Test Output No losses.

# 3 8.4.14 Test of Buffer Sizing
Test ID Ethernet.BUF.01 Classification Functionality Test Title Buffer Sizing Test Objective: This test is For Further Study. It is meant for midhaul and backhaul cases. The aim of the test is to check the buffering capacity at which the TNE receives and forwards the traffic which the amount of the ingress traffic is greater than the throughput of the egress interface with no frame loss with Xhaul (Midhaul/ Backhaul) link. Pre-Req N/A Test Topology: Test Configuration 1. There could be one TNE or two or more TNEs. Service is configured in one TNE /among TNEs to make traffic be switched. 2. The buffer size parameter of shaping function is not defined but no frame loss is desired. Pass/Fail Criteria: Results [ X ] Pass [ ] Pass w/X [ ] Dropped [ ] Blocked [ ] Failed

## 8.5 Fronthaul Services Redundancy and High Availability
This section covers the Fronthaul redundancy scenarios where the CSR (on the O-RU side) is connected to

# 11 8.5.1 Multi-Home Active/Active Fronthaul Redundancy
Test ID Ethernet.HA.01 Classification Redundancy & High Availability Test Title Active-active Fronthaul service redundancy Test Objective: Verify O-RU – O-DU redundancy using Active-Active EVPN VPWS services Pre-Req SR-MPLS and/or SRv6 baseline configuration on CSR, HSR and any other Fronthaul routers Timing and syn configuration through FH network for RAN Nodes to sync Test Topology: Test Configuration 1. Connect O-RU to the UNI of the CSR and dual-home O-DU to multiple HSRs. 2. Configure EVPN VPWS Active -Active between CSR and HSR as shown in test topology. 3. O-DU should support terminating both port from HSRs on a single logical BD Procedure: Detailed Test procedure: 1. Verify O-RU and O-DU are up and communicating. 2. Start bi-directional traffic between the RAN nodes, verify traffic is being received on either ends. 3. Fail 1 of the two Active-Active EVPN VPWS services by either: a. Powering off HSR-1, or b. Disconnect the UNI from HSR-1 to O-DU 4. Verify all traffic is converged on the other EVPN VPWS circuit. 5. Wait for traffic to regain pre-failure rates, then recover the failure, by powering on the HSR-1 or reconnecting UNI on HSR-1. 6. Wait for EVPN services to recover to pre-failure state with Active-Active configuration Pass/Fail Criteria: During Failure: 1. No application layer connectivity loss between O-RU and O-DU (O-RU should not reboot) 2. Document Failure convergence time. Ensure the convergence time is within Operator defined upper limits. 3. All traffic converges on the Active VPWS link with 0 Packet loss post convergence. During Recovery 4. No application layer connectivity loss between O-RU and O-DU (O-RU should not reboot) 5. Document recovery convergence time. Ensure the convergence time is within Operator defined upper limits. 6. All traffic reverts to using Active-Active VPWS configuration with 0 Packet loss post convergence. Test Output Capture syslogs and any error messages received during failure and recovery. Document failure and recovery convergence times

# 3 8.5.2 Multi-Home Single-Active Bundle Fronthaul Redundancy
Test ID Ethernet.HA.02 Classification Redundancy & High Availability Test Title Active-active Fronthaul service redundancy Test Objective: 1. Verify O-RU – O-DU redundancy using Single-Active EVPN VPWS services Pre-Req SR-MPLS and/or SRv6 baseline configuration on CSR, HSR and any other Fronthaul routers Timing and syn configuration through FH network for RAN Nodes to sync Test Topology: Test Configuration 1. Connect O-RU to the UNI of the CSR and dual-home O-DU to multiple HSRs. 2. Configure EVPN VPWS Single-Active between CSR and HSR as shown in test topology. 3. O-DU should support terminating both port from HSRs on a single logical BD Procedure: Detailed Test procedure: 1. Verify O-RU and O-DU are up and communicating. 2. Start bi-directional traffic between the RAN nodes, verify traffic is being received on either ends using active EVPN VPWS only, in this case through HSR1. 3. Fail the Active EVPN VPWS services by either: a. Powering off HSR-1, or b. Disconnect the UNI from HSR-1 to O-DU 4. Verify all traffic is converged on the other EVPN VPWS circuit through HSR2. 5. After full traffic convergence, recover the failure, by powering on the HSR-1 or reconnecting UNI on HSR-1. 6. Wait for EVPN services to recover to pre-failure state with Single-Active configuration Pass/Fail Criteria: During Failure: 1. No application layer connectivity loss between O-RU and O-DU (O-RU should not reboot) 2. Document Failure convergence time. Ensure the convergence time is within Operator defined upper limits. 3. All traffic converges on the backup VPWS link, that now becomes active, with 0 Packet loss post convergence. During Recovery 4. No application layer connectivity loss between O-RU and O-DU (O-RU should not reboot) 5. Document recovery convergence time, if any. Ensure the convergence time is within Operator defined upper limits. 6. All traffic revert to pre-failure state, Single-Active VPWS configuration with 0 Packet loss post convergence. Test Output Capture syslogs and any error messages received during failure and recover. Document failure and recovery convergence times

# 3 8.5.4 Multi-Home Single-Active Standalone, Fronthaul Redundancy, no BD
on O-DU Test ID Ethernet.HA.04 Classification Redundancy & High Availability Test Title Active-active Fronthaul service redundancy Test Objective: 1. Verify O-RU – O-DU redundancy using Single-Active EVPN VPWS services Pre-Req SR-MPLS and/or SRv6 baseline configuration on CSR, HSR and any other Fronthaul routers Timing and syn configuration through FH network for RAN Nodes to sync Test Topology: Test Configuration 1. Connect O-RU to the UNI of the CSR and dual-home O-DU to multiple HSRs. 2. Configure EVPN VPWS Single-Active between CSR and HSR as shown in test topology. 3. In this case, O-DU terminates both port from HSRs on separate interface each with its own MAC address, instead of a single MAC address using logical BD. 4. UNI’s from HSR pair are not part of the port channel in this scenario Procedure: Detailed Test procedure: 1. Verify O-RU and O-DU are up and communicating. 2. Start bi-directional traffic between the RAN nodes, verify traffic is being received on either 3. Fail the Active EVPN VPWS service by either: a. Powering off HSR-1, or b. Disconnect the UNI from HSR-1 to O-DU 4. Upon detection of failure, the orchestration system should change the O-RU configuration to reflect the new MAC address to allow O-RU to communicate with the DU using new MAC. 5. Verify all traffic is converged on the other EVPN VPWS circuit through HSR2. 6. After full traffic convergence, recover the failure, by powering on the HSR-1 or reconnecting UNI on HSR-1. 7. Wait for EVPN services to recover to pre-failure state with Single-Active configuration Pass/Fail Criteria: During Failure: 1. Successful O-RU re-configuration. O-RU behavior on reconfiguration will depend upon RU vendor implementation. 2. Document Failure convergence time. Evaluate whether the convergence time is in-line with Operator expectations. The convergence will be higher as O-RU reconfiguration will have to take place. 3. All traffic converges on the backup VPWS link, that now becomes active, with 0 Packet loss post convergence. During Recovery 4. No application layer connectivity loss between O-RU and O-DU (O-RU should not reboot) 5. Document recovery convergence time, if any 6. All traffic reverts to pre-failure state, Single-Active VPWS configuration with 0 Packet loss post convergence. Test Output Capture syslogs and any error messages received during failure and recover. Document failure and recovery convergence times

# 5 8.5.5 Transport network Redundancy
Test ID Ethernet.HA.05 Classification Redundancy & High Availability Test Title Transport network path redundancy Test Objective: 1. Verify traffic convergence following a link/node failure in FH Network comprising redundant paths(s) Pre-Req SR-MPLS and/or SRv6 baseline configuration on CSR, HSR and any other Fronthaul routers Optional Timing and sync configuration through FH network for RAN Nodes if actual O-RU and O-DU are used instead of O-RU and O-DU simulators Configure Topology Independent Loop Free Alternate (TI-LFA) in the FH network Test Topology: Test Configuration 1. Connect O-RU or O-RU simulator to the UNI of the CSR and O-DU or O-DU simulator to the HSR. 2. Configure L2VPN or EVPN VPWS Service between CSR and HSR as shown in test topology. 3. Configure L3VPN services between CSR and HSR for M-Plane 4. Verify TI-LFA backup path is programmed in the forwarding table for all services Procedure: 1. Verify O-RU and O-DU are up and communicating. If actual O-RU and O-DU are used 2. Start bi-directional traffic between the RAN nodes for both L2VPN/EVPN and L3VPN services, verify traffic is being received on either end . 3. Fail the IGP best path link from CSR to HSR, through which the traffic is being forwarded. Types of failure may include, but not limited: a. Physical link failure on the CSR or HSR’ directly connected interface, b. A link failure on intermediary nodes along the traffic path, or c. A node failure on intermediary node along the traffic path 4. Verify Upon detection of failure, traffic convergences over the backup path for all services. 5. After full traffic convergence, gather data and recover the failure, by reconnecting the failed link. 6. Ensure all services recover to pre-failure state with Single-Active configuration Pass/Fail Criteria: During Failure: 1. Document the failure impact on O-RU and O-DU, including whether there is any application layer connectivity loss between O-RU and O-DU or if O-RU reboots during the process. 2. Successful traffic convergence over backup path for all services. 3. Document Failure convergence time. Evaluate whether the convergence time is in-line with Operator expectations. 4. No packet loss for any service once all traffic is converged. During Recovery 5. Document the recovery impact on O-RU and O-DU, including whether there is any application layer connectivity loss between O-RU and O-DU or if O-RU reboots during the process. 6. Document recovery convergence time if any 7. All traffic reverts to pre-failure state with 0 Packet loss post convergence. Test Output Capture syslogs and any error messages received during failure and recover. Document failure and recovery convergence times

## 8.6 Legacy Fronthaul and C-RAN Coexistence Verification
This section covers the scenarios where an operator may have both 4G and 5G Fronthaul networks using C- RAN. In those cases operator may need to have traditional CPRI and 7-2x traffic coexisting on the same Packetized fronthaul requiring the CPRI traffic converted to packet using IEEE 1914-3 ROE specification as described in O-RAN Xhaul Packet Switched network architecture. Following test cases could be used to support and validate this scenario.

### 8.6.1 Legacy CPRI with RoE Type 0 Coexistence with 7-2x eCPRI
Test ID Ethernet.CPRI.01 Classification Functionality Test Title Coexistence and transport of Legacy CPRI over Packetized Fronthaul using IEEE

## 1914.3 ROE Structure agnostic Type 0 encapsulation
Test Objective: 2. Verify that Legacy CPRI and O-RAN 7-2x traffic can coexist on Packet Fronthaul. 3. Verify that CSR and HSR can use ROE mapper/demapper functions to convert CPRI into Packet and vice versa Pre-Req SR-MPLS and/or SRv6 baseline configuration on CSR, HSR and any other Fronthaul routers Timing and syn configuration through FH network if RAN Nodes are used, not required if test equipment or CPRI/7-2x simulator is used Test Topology: Test Configuration 1. O-RU and O-DU receives CPRI and 7-2x traffic on its UNI through tester or actual RAN Nodes. 2. Interface speed on the uplink must be capable of transporting combine CPRI and 7-2X traffic. 3. IEEE 1914.3 ROE Structure Agnostic Type 0 configuration on UNI at CSR and HSR Procedure: Detailed Test procedure: 1. Connect 5G O-RU and O-DU to appropriate ethernet ports on CSR and HSR. 2. Simultaneously, connect 4G RU and corresponding BBU to CPRI port on CSR and HSR. 3. Configure EVPN VPWS circuits for each of the two connections between CSR and HSR. 4. Bi-directional traffic should be sent on both the Ethernet (7-2x connected) port and ROE-enabled (CPRI facing) ports. 5. Test should be repeated with SR-MPLS and/or SRv6 control planes depending on FH transport technology used, in accordance with the O-RAN Xhaul packet switched document. 6. Test could be repeated for various CPRI rate options (typical are option 3 – 8, but others could be tested as well) Pass/Fail Criteria: Successful Transport of both traffic types with 0 packet loss, within FH latency budget: Correlation of counters on both CSR and HSR for: 7-2x Traffic: Interface counters, EVPN VPWS counters, Bridge-domain or others as implemented by the TNE vendor CPRI Traffic: Two set of measurements/correlation should be used for CPRI traffic: 1. Hyperframe counters on Test equipment should match on both sides. 2. ROE Mapper/Demapper Counters on CSR/HSR and CPRI controller should match on both side. 3. EVPN VPWS services counters, others as implemented by the TNE vendor Test Output Capture any data w.r.t: Transport underlay: SRv6 or SR-MPLS control plane, routing (ISIS/OSPF) adjacencies, EVPN VPWS service verification (PW is up on both sides), CPRI Transport: CPRI controller information, ROE Mapper/Demapper function verification, Traffic Forwarding: Interface forwarding on CPRI and 7-2x UNI, EVPN service and CPRI controller. Document data rates comparing CPRI with packet data after ROE Structure agnostic Type 0 mapping for legacy traffic.

### 8.6.2 Legacy CPRI with RoE Type 1 Coexistence with 7-2x eCPRI
Test ID Ethernet.CPRI.02 Classification Functionality Test Title Coexistence and transport of Legacy CPRI over Packetized Fronthaul using IEEE

## 1914.3 ROE Structure agnostic Type 1 encapsulation
Test Objective: 1. Verify that Legacy CPRI and O-RAN 7-2x traffic can coexist on Packet Fronthaul. 2. Verify that CSR and HSR can use ROE Mapper/Demapper functions to convert CPRI into Packet using Structure agnostic Type 1 function and vice versa Pre-Req SR-MPLS and/or SRv6 baseline configuration on CSR, HSR and any other Fronthaul routers Timing and syn configuration through FH network if RAN Nodes are used, not required if test equipment or CPRI/7-2x simulator is used Test Topology: Test Configuration 1. O-RU and O-DU receives CPRI and 7-2x traffic on its UNI through tester or actual RAN Nodes. 2. Interface speed on the uplink must be capable of transporting combine CPRI and 7-2X traffic. 3. IEEE 1914.3 ROE Structure Agnostic Type 1 configuration on UNI at CSR and HSR Procedure: Detailed Test procedure: 1. Connect 5G O-RU and O-DU to appropriate ethernet ports on CSR and HSR. 2. Simultaneously, connect 4G RU and corresponding BBU to CPRI port on CSR and HSR. 3. Configure EVPN VPWS circuits for each of the two connections between CSR and HSR. 4. Bi-directional traffic should be sent on both the Ethernet (7-2x connected) port and ROE-enabled (CPRI facing) ports. 5. Test should be repeated with SR-MPLS and/or SRv6 control planes depending on FH transport technology used, in accordance with the O-RAN Xhaul packet switched document. 6. Test could be repeated for various CPRI rate options (typical are option 3 – 7, but others could be tested as well) Pass/Fail Criteria: Successful Transport of both traffic types with 0 packet loss Correlation of counters on both CSR and HSR for: 7-2x Traffic: Interface counters, EVPN VPWS counters, Bridge-domain or others as implemented by the TNE vendor CPRI Traffic: ROE Mapper/Demapper Counters, CPRI controller counters, Interface, EVPN VPWS services counters, others as implemented by the TNE vendor. Expected ~20% bandwidth savings from CPRI and ROE based Packet transport for CPRI Rate Options 3-7 due to 8B10B line coding removal Test Output Capture any data w.r.t: Transport underlay: SRv6 or SR-MPLS control plane, routing (ISIS/OSPF) adjacencies, EVPN VPWS service verification (PW is up on both sides), CPRI Transport: CPRI controller information, ROE Mapper/Demapper function verification, Traffic Forwarding: Interface forwarding on CPRI and 7-2x UNI, EVPN service and CPRI controller. Document data rates comparing CPRI with packet data after ROE Structure agnostic Type 1 mapping for legacy traffic.

# 9 Xhaul Synchronization Testing

## 9.1 Synchronization test use cases, parameters and methodologies.
This chapter delivers the testing methodologies, parameters and limits for PTP-based network technologies. The chapter is organized in different sections each representing a typical synchronization configuration mode. For each mode, all related metrics are identified, and limits are provided to deliver pass/fail verdicts. Various synchronization options have been defined in the O-RAN WG4 CUS-Plane Specification [2] (LLS- C1, LLS-C2, LLS-C3 and LLS-C4). Depending on the specific O-RAN deployment being considered, not all of them might be relevant. When testing the S-Plane, the System Integrator shall identify which of the test cases are relevant depending on the specific deployment scenarios addressed. As a general guideline the following applies:

# 12 1. Direct connection between O-DU and O-RU:
LLS-C1 is generally the main sync option to be validated. LLS-C4 may be considered as an alternative or as a complement to LLS-C1.

# 15 2. Bridged network between O-DU and O-RU
LLS-C2 for cases where the synchronization is delivered to the O-RU via the O-DU and over the bridged network. In this case the PRTC/PRC may be embedded in the O-DU or may be located anywhere in the network (connected via backhaul or FH transport). LLS-C3 for cases when the synchronization is distributed to the O-RU without involving the O-DU In this case the PRTC/PRC may be located anywhere in the network (connected via backhaul or FH transport) and may also be co-located with the O-DU. LLS-C4 may be considered as alternative or as a complement to LLS-C2/LLS-C3. LLS-C4 is considered for future versions of the specification. The Fronthaul focused tests for S-Plane for the current version of this specification covers LLS-C1, LLS-C2 and LLS-C3 using the ITU-T G.8275.1 [5] profile (Full Timing Support). Fronthaul focused tests for S-Plane for LLS-C1, LLS-C2 and LLS-C3 using the ITU-T G.8275.2 [6] profile (Partial Timing Support), and LLS-C4 are for future study. The test cases apply to both lab and field deployment cases. For lab cases, the type and number of inserted Transport Node Elements (TNE) will be determined by operators (or any other applicable end customer). The tests are performed at Xhaul UNI interfaces, and not between individual TNEs. The Xhaul UNI interfaces include O-RU Fronthaul UNI, O-DU Fronthaul or Midhaul UNI. The Test Topologies in all the test cases uses GNSS simulator to generate the GNSS signal to the network PRTC/T-GM. This high-quality reference from the simulator is used as the external reference for clock testers as well. The resultant accuracy of this method is a few nanoseconds. However, one can also use a GNSS signal feeding both the initial PRTC/T-GM in the network and the reference clock generating a 1pps/10MHz used to synchronize the clock testers for the measurements. Operator can make an allowance in this case, for all of the measurements for the accuracy of the reference. The magnitude of this allowance will depend on the specific GNSS reference in use. For relative time error measurements at UNI (e.g., O-RU Fronthaul UNI) this document uses the metric max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2) as defined in [88], Appendix XI. Please note this metric represents an estimation and the 𝑅𝐿 worst-case scenario. Tests that meet (are below) the limits are seen as PASS. Tests not meeting this metric may still be acceptable. The decision is for operators to make. However, if the measurement equipment support relative time error measurement, operator can use such equipment. Refer ITU-T G.8271.1 Appendix

# 7 XI for more details.
For Frequency Limit at UNI (e.g., O-RU Fronthaul UNI) this document uses the metric defined as per WG4 section H.2 based on O-DU class for LLS-C1 and LLS-C2 configuration and based on PRTC class for LLS- C3 configuration. Applicable MTIE limit shall apply for Frequency as per WG4 specification. ITU-T G.8273 Annex B mentions the Phase/time clock equipment specification related measurement methods. One can refer to this section for any additional information and guideline for such measurements. The acceptable limits in all the below tests shall meet CUS specification worst case limits based on the maximum network size, but operator “should” apply the limits more aligned with the real tested configuration based on the network size.

# 19 9.1.1 Network Time Synchronization-LLS-C1 (Option-A) configuration
Test ID SYNC.TE.01 Classification Synchronization, Performance, Absolute Time Error, Relative Time Error Test Title Measurement of Frequency Error, Time Error, Relative Time Error at O-RU UNI. Configuration-LLS-C1(Option-A) (T-GM embedded in O-DU) Test Objective: 1. Verify the Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝐿 2. Verify the Maximum Relative Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) between two O-RU 𝑅𝐿 UNI ports. 3. Verify the Maximum Absolute 1PPS Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝐿 4. Verify the Time Wander at the O-RU UNI. Pre-Req ODU (Integrated T-GM) connected to PRTC/GNSS and locked to PRTC. O-RU UNI is the measurement Plane Test Topology: The test topology above illustrates the placement of clock tester at the measurement plane with 1PPS and 10MHz reference from GNSS simulator connected to clock tester. The tester measurement ports at O-RU UNI connected to O-DU. Test Configuration 1. Clock Tester at O-RU UNI receives timing input on its measurement port. 2. Provide 1PPS and 10MHz reference to Clock Tester from GNSS simulator. 3. G.8275.1 Full Timing Support profile. Procedure: Detailed Test procedure: 1. Connect T-GM (O-DU) to GNSS Simulator. 2. Configure O-DU as T-GM with G.8275.1 profile. 3. Configure SyncE on O-DU with ESMC/eESMC as applicable. 4. Connect Clock Tester measurement ports to O-DU TimeTransmitter ports to monitor PTP at the O-RU UNI. 5. Establish a PTP and SyncE session to the fronthaul network. Verifications for Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error 1. Verify that PTP and SyncE session is up and running. 2. Perform time error measurements on Clock Tester at O-RU1 and O-RU2 UNI independently. a. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI should be ≤1420𝑛𝑠 𝐿 (For Regular RU) b. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI should be ≤1465𝑛𝑠 𝐿 (For Enhanced RU) Verifications for Maximum Relative Packet Time Error (NOTE1) 1. Perform the time error measurements on Clock Tester at O-RU1 and O-RU2 UNI independently. Collect the data (𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸1,𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸1) 𝑎𝑛𝑑 (𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸2,𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸2) for O-RU1 UNI and O-RU2 UNI respectively at least for a period of 1000sec. 2. Estimate the Maximum Relative Time Error measurements between the two O- RU UNI ports. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤60 (𝐹𝑅2) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤190𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 c. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤100𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 As per ITU-T G.8271.1 Appendix-V1, the requirement is not to measure the continuous relative time error, 𝑇𝐸 (t), but to measure the maximum possible value it 𝑅𝐿 can take. 𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸 (1)−𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸 (2) max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)𝑡ℎ𝑒 𝑔𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡 𝑜𝑓 { 𝐿 𝐿 𝑅𝐿 𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸 (2)−𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸 (1) 𝐿 𝐿 Verifications for Maximum Absolute 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify that PTP and SyncE session is up and running. 2. Perform 1PPS time error measurements on Clock Tester at O-RU1 and O-RU2 UNI independently. a. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1420𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) b. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1465𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) Verifications for Time Wander 1. Verify the Time Wander using Clock tester at the O-RU UNI. a. Frequency Limit is ≤15𝑝𝑝𝑏 (For O-DU Class-A) b. Frequency Limit is ≤5𝑝𝑝𝑏 (For O-DU Class-B) c. MTIE mask as per the limit specified. NOTE1 (As per G.8271.1): To measure the relative time error, measure the time error from each point with respect to the internal time reference of measurement equipment, and then subtracting time error of one point from the other. Pass/Fail Criteria: Test shall pass if the Maximum Absolute TE, Relative TE and Time Wander Limit result is within the specified limits. Test Output End-to-End Expected Value Observed Network Limit at O- Value (For enhanced RU) (For regular RU) RU UNI Packet max|TE | ≤1465𝑛𝑠 ≤1420𝑛𝑠 L Packet max|TE | ≤60𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅2) ≤100𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) RL ≤190𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) 1PPS max|TE | ≤1465𝑛𝑠 ≤1420𝑛𝑠 L Frequency Limit ≤15𝑝𝑝𝑏 ≤15𝑝𝑝𝑏 (For O-DU Class- A) Frequency Limit ≤5𝑝𝑝𝑏 ≤5𝑝𝑝𝑏 (For O-DU Class- B)

# 3 Scenario-2.
Test ID SYNC.TE.03 Classification Synchronization, Performance, Absolute Time Error, Relative Time Error Test Title Measurement of Frequency Error, Absolute Time Error, Relative Time Error at O-RU UNI. LLS-C1(Option-B) Test Objective: 1. Verify the Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝐿 2. Verify the Maximum Relative Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) between two O-RU 𝑅𝐿 UNI ports. 3. Verify the Maximum Absolute 1PPS Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝐿 4. Verify the Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝑅𝐿 5. Verify the Time Wander at the O-RU UNI. Pre-Req T-GM is dual-homed to ODUs. O-RU UNI is the measurement plane. Test Topology: The test topology above illustrates the placement of clock tester at the measurement plane with 1PPS and 10MHz reference connected to clock tester. The tester measurement ports at O-RU UNI connected to O-DU. Test Configuration 1. Clock Tester at O-RU UNI receives timing input on its measurement port. 2. Provide 1PPS and 10MHz reference to Clock Tester from GNSS simulator. 3. G.8275.1 Full Timing Support profile as applicable. Procedure: Detailed Test procedure: 1. Connect T-GM/PRTC to both O-DUs directly. 2. Configure O-DU as T-BC. 3. Configure G.8275.1 profile on O-DU and T-GM. 4. Configure End-to-End SyncE with ESMC/eESMC as applicable. 5. Connect tester measurement ports to O-DU TimeTransmitter ports to monitor PTP at the O-RU1 and O-RU2 UNI. 6. Establish a PTP and SyncE session to the fronthaul network. Verifications for Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error 1. Verify that PTP and SyncE session is up and running. 2. Verify time error measurements using Clock Tester at O-RU UNI. a. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI≤1420𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) b. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI≤1465𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) Verifications for Maximum Relative Packet Time Error (NOTE1) 1. Perform time error measurements on Clock Tester at O-RU1 and O-RU2 plane independently. Collect the data (𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸1,𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸1) 𝑎𝑛𝑑 (𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸2,𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸2) for O-RU UNI at least for a period of 1000sec. 2. Estimate the Maximum Relative Time Error measurements between the two O- RU UNI ports connected to O-DU1. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤60𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅2) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤190𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 c. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤100𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 3. Estimate the Maximum Relative Time Error measurements between the two O- RU UNI ports connected to O-DU2. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤60𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅2) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤190𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 c. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤100𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 4. Estimate the Maximum Relative Time Error measurements between the O-RU UNI ports connected to O-DU1 and O-DU2. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤2930𝑛𝑠 (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤2840𝑛𝑠 (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 As per ITU-T G.8271.1 Appendix-V1, the requirement is not to measure the continuous relative time error, TERL(t), but to measure the maximum possible value it can take. 𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸 (1)−𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸 (2) max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)𝑡ℎ𝑒 𝑔𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡 𝑜𝑓 { 𝐿 𝐿 𝑅𝐿 𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸 (2)−𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸 (1) 𝐿 𝐿 Verifications for Maximum Absolute 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify that PTP and SyncE session is up and running. 2. Perform 1PPS time error measurements on Clock Tester at O-RU1 and O-RU2 UNI independently. a. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1420𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) b. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1465𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) Verifications for Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify that PTP and SyncE session is up and running. 2. Estimate the Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error measurements between the TimeTransmitter ports of O-DU1 and O-DU2 at O-RU UNI. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤2930𝑛𝑠 (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤2840𝑛𝑠 (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 Verifications for Time Wander 1. Verify the Time Wander using Clock tester at the O-RU UNI. a. Frequency Limit is ≤15𝑝𝑝𝑏 (For O-DU Class-A) b. Frequency Limit is ≤5𝑝𝑝𝑏 (For O-DU Class-B) c. MTIE mask as per the limit specified. NOTE1 (As per G.8271.1): To measure the relative time error, measure the time error from each point with respect to the internal time reference of measurement equipment, and then subtracting time error of one point from the other. Pass/Fail Criteria: Test shall pass if the Max Absolute TE, Maximum Relative TE and Time Wander Limit measurement result is below the specified limits. Test Output End-to-End Expected Value Observed Network Limit at O- Value (For Enhanced RU) (For Regular RU) RU UNI Packet max|TE | ≤1465𝑛𝑠 ≤1420𝑛𝑠 L Packet max|TE | ≤60𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅2) ≤100𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) RL ≤190𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) 1PPS max|TE | ≤1465𝑛𝑠 ≤1420𝑛𝑠 L Frequency Limit ≤15𝑝𝑝𝑏 ≤15𝑝𝑝𝑏 (For O-DU Class- A) Frequency Limit ≤5𝑝𝑝𝑏 ≤5𝑝𝑝𝑏 (For O-DU Class- B) Relative Time Error between the O-RU UNI ports connected to O-DU1 and O-DU2 Packet max|TE | ≤2930𝑛𝑠 ≤2840𝑛𝑠 RL 1PPS max|TE | ≤2930𝑛𝑠 ≤2840𝑛𝑠 RL

# 3 Scenario-2
Test ID SYNC.TE.07 Classification Synchronization, Performance, Absolute Time Error, Relative Time Error Test Title Measurement of Frequency Error, Maximum Absolute Time Error, Maximum Relative Time Error at O-RU UNI. LLS-C2 (Option-B) configuration Test Objective: 1. Verify the Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝐿 2. Verify the Maximum Relative Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) between two O-RU 𝑅𝐿 UNI ports. 3. Verify the Maximum Absolute 1PPS Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝐿 4. Verify the Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝑅𝐿 5. Verify the Time Wander at O-RU UNI. Pre-Req Nearest Common node for O-RU UNI is T-BC and not O-DU. T-GM/PRTC connected to O-DU via chain of T-BC/T-TCs. O-DU is locked. O-RU UNI is the measurement plane. Test Topology: The test topology above illustrates the placement of clock tester at the measurement plane with 1PPS and 10MHz reference connected to clock tester. The tester measurement ports at O-RU UNI connected to the CSRs. Test Configuration 1. Clock Tester at O-RU UNI receives timing input on its measurement port. 2. Provide 1PPS and 10MHz reference to Clock Tester from GNSS simulator. 3. G.8275.1 Full Timing Support profile as applicable. Procedure: Detailed Test procedure: 1. Connect T-GM to O-DU via chain of T-BC/T-TCs. 2. Configure O-DU and CSR as T-BC and HSR as either T-BC or T-TC. 3. Enable G.8275.1 profile on HSR (when acting as T-BC), O-DU, CSR and T-GM. 4. Connect Clock tester measurement ports to CSR1 and CSR2 TimeTransmitter ports to monitor the PTP at O-RU UNI. 5. Establish a PTP and SyncE session to the fronthaul network. Verifications for Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error 1. Verify that PTP and SyncE session is up and running. 2. Perform time error measurements on Clock tester at O-RU UNI. 3. Verify time error measurements using Clock Tester at O-RU UNI. a. Max |𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI≤1465𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) b. Max |𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI≤1420𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) Verifications for Maximum Relative Packet Time Error (NOTE1) 1. Perform time error measurements on Clock Tester at O-RU1 and O-RU2 UNI. Collect the data (𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸1,𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸1) 𝑎𝑛𝑑 (𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸2,𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸2) for both the O-RU UNI at least for a period of 1000sec. 2. Estimate the Maximum Relative Time Error measurements between the O-RU UNI ports. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤60𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅2) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤190𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 c. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤100𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 As per ITU-T G.8271.1 Appendix-V1, the requirement is not to measure the continuous relative time error, TE RL (t), but to measure the maximum possible value it can take. 𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸 (1)−𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸 (2) max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)𝑡ℎ𝑒 𝑔𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡 𝑜𝑓 { 𝐿 𝐿 𝑅𝐿 𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸 (2)−𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸 (1) 𝐿 𝐿 Verifications for Maximum 1PPS Absolute Time Error 1. Verify that PTP and SyncE session is up and running. 2. Verify 1PPS time error measurements using Clock Tester at O-RU UNI. a. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI≤1465𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) b. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI≤1420𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) Verifications for Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify that PTP and SyncE session is up and running. 2. Estimate the Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error measurements between the O-RU UNI ports. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤60𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅2) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤190𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 c. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤100𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 Verifications for Time Wander 1. Verify the Time Wander using Clock tester at the O-RU UNI. a. Frequency Limit is ≤36𝑝𝑝𝑏 (For O-DU Class-A) b. Frequency Limit is ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (For O-DU Class-B) c. MTIE mask as per the limit specified. NOTE1: To measure the maximum relative time error, measure the time error from each point with respect to the internal time reference of measurement equipment, and then subtracting time error of one point from the other. Pass/Fail Criteria: Test shall pass if the Maximum absolute TE, Maximum Relative TE and Time Wander Limit measurement result is below the limit specified. Test Output End-to-End Expected Value Observed Network Limit at O- Value (For Enhanced RU) (For Regular RU) RU UNI. Packet max|TE | ≤1465𝑛𝑠 ≤1420𝑛𝑠 L Packet max|TE | ≤60𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅2) ≤100𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) RL ≤190𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) 1PPS max|TE | ≤1465𝑛𝑠 ≤1420𝑛𝑠 L 1PPS max|TE | ≤60𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅2) ≤100𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) RL ≤190𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) Frequency Limit ≤36𝑝𝑝𝑏 ≤36𝑝𝑝𝑏 (For O-DU Class- A) Frequency Limit ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (For O-DU Class- B)

# 3 (Fail-over: Scenario-1)
Test ID SYNC.TE.08 Classification Synchronization, Performance, Absolute Time Error Test Title Measurement of Frequency Error, Maximum Absolute Time Error at O-RU UNI LLS-C2 (Option-B): Dual-Homing with LAG at O-DU side Test Objective: 1. Verify the Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝐿 2. Verify the Maximum Absolute 1PPS Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝐿 3. Verify the Time Wander at O-RU UNI. Pre-Req O-DU is the nearest common T-BC to O-RU UNI. T-GM or PRTC connected to ODU via a chain of T-BC/T-TCs. A pair of HSR nodes as T-TCs, with CSR dual-homed to the HSR’s on one side and a pair of O-DU uplinks are bundled to LAG and connected to HSR node on the other side. O-RU UNI is the measurement plane. Test Topology: Normal Scenario Link Failure between O-DU and HSR1 HSR Node Failure The test topology above illustrates the placement of clock tester at the measurement plane with 1PPS and 10MHz reference connected to clock tester. The tester measurement ports at O-RU UNI connected to the CSR. Test Configuration 1. Clock Tester at O-RU UNI receives timing input on its measurement port. 2. Provide 1PPS and 10MHz reference to Clock Tester from GNSS simulator. 3. G.8275.1 Full Timing Support profile as applicable. Procedure: Case-1: Normal Scenario Detailed Test procedure 1. Connect T-GM to O-DU via a chain of T-BC/T-TCs. 2. Configure O-DU and CSR as T-BC and HSR as T-TC. 3. Enable G.8275.1 profile on CSR and T-GM. 4. Connect Clock tester measurement ports to CSR TimeTransmitter port to monitor the PTP at O-RU UNI. 5. Establish PTP and SyncE session to the fronthaul network. Verifications for Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error 1. Verify that PTP and SyncE session is up and running. 2. Verify time error measurements using Clock Tester at O-RU UNI. a. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI≤1465𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) b. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI≤1420𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) Verifications for Maximum 1PPS Absolute Time Error 1. Verify that PTP and SyncE session is up and running. 2. Verify 1PPS time error measurements using Clock Tester at O-RU UNI. a. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI≤1465𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) b. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI≤1420𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) Verifications for Time Wander 1. Verify the Time Wander using Clock tester at the O-RU UNI. a. Frequency Limit is ≤36𝑝𝑝𝑏 (For O-DU Class-A) b. Frequency Limit is ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (For O-DU Class-B) c. MTIE mask as per the limit specified. Case-2: Link Fail between O-DU and HSR1 Detailed Test procedure 1. Fail the link between O-DU and HSR1. Verifications for Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error 1. Verify that PTP session is established via the path O-DU-HSR2-CSR1 and CSR1 lock to O-DU via HSR-2. 2. Verify time error measurements using Clock tester on O-RU UNI. a. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI≤1465𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) b. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI≤1420𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) Verifications for Maximum 1PPS Absolute Time Error 1. Verify that PTP and SyncE session is up and running. 2. Verify 1PPS time error measurements using Clock Tester at O-RU UNI. a. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI≤1465𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) b. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI≤1420𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) Verifications for Time Wander 1. Verify the Time Wander using Clock tester at the O-RU UNI. a. Frequency Limit is ≤36𝑝𝑝𝑏 (For O-DU Class-A) b. Frequency Limit is ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (For O-DU Class-B) c. MTIE mask as per the limit specified. Case-3: HSR1 Node Fail Detailed Test procedure 1. Fail the node HSR1 by power off. Verifications for Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error 1. Verify that PTP session is established via the path O-DU-HSR2-CSR1 and CSR1 lock to O-DU via HSR2. 2. Verify the time error measurements using Clock Tester on O-RU UNI. a. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI≤1465𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) b. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI≤1420𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) Verifications for Maximum 1PPS Absolute Time Error 1. Verify that PTP and SyncE session is up and running. 2. Verify 1PPS time error measurements using Clock Tester at O-RU UNI. a. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI≤1465𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) b. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI≤1420𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) Verifications for Time Wander 1. Verify the Time Wander using Clock tester at the O-RU UNI. a. Frequency Limit is ≤36𝑝𝑝𝑏 (For O-DU Class-A) b. Frequency Limit is ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (For O-DU Class-B) c. MTIE mask as per the limit specified. Pass/Fail Criteria: Test shall pass if the Maximum absolute TE and Time Wander Limit measurement result is below the limit specified. Test Output End-to-End Expected Value Observed Network Limit at O- Value (For Enhanced RU) (For Regular RU) RU UNI Packet max|TE | ≤1465𝑛𝑠 ≤1420𝑛𝑠 L 1PPS max|TE | ≤1465𝑛𝑠 ≤1420𝑛𝑠 L Frequency Limit ≤36𝑝𝑝𝑏 ≤36𝑝𝑝𝑏 (For O-DU Class- A) Frequency Limit ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (For O-DU Class- B)

# 3 (Fail-over: Scenario-3)
Test ID SYNC.TE.10 Classification Synchronization, Performance, Absolute Time Error Test Title Measurement of Frequency Error, Maximum Absolute Time Error at O-RU UNI LLS-C2 (Option-B): Dual-Homing with dual/redundant O-DU Test Objective: 1. Verify the Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝐿 2. Verify the Maximum Absolute 1PPS Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝐿 3. Verify the Time Wander at O-RU UNI. Pre-Req T-GM or PRTC connected to O-DUs via T-BC chain. A pair of HSR nodes, with CSR dual-homed to the HSR’s on one side and a pair of O-DU uplinks are bundled to AE and connected to HSR node on the other side. O-RU UNI is the measurement plane. Test Topology: Normal Scenario O-DU Failure Scenario The test topology above illustrates the placement of clock tester at the measurement plane with 1PPS and 10MHz reference connected to clock tester. The tester measurement ports at O-RU UNI connected to the CSR. Test Configuration 1. Clock Tester at O-RU UNI receives timing input on its measurement port. 2. Provide 1PPS and 10MHz reference to Clock Tester from GNSS simulator. 3. G.8275.1 Full Timing Support profile as applicable. Procedure: Case-1: Normal Scenario Detailed Test procedure: 1. Connect T-GM to O-DU via a chain of T-BC/T-TCs. 2. Configure O-DU1, O-DU2 and CSR as T-BC. HSR1 and HSR2 as T-TC. 3. Enable G.8275.1 profile on CSR and T-GM. 4. Connect Clock tester measurement ports to CSR TimeTransmitter port to monitor the PTP at O-RU UNI. 5. Establish PTP and SyncE session to the fronthaul network. Verifications for Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error 1. Verify that PTP session is up and running. 2. Verify that PTP session is established on the Primary path T-GM-O-DU1-HSR1- CSR and CSR lock to O-DU1 via HSR1. 3. Perform time error measurements on Tester on O-RU UNI. a. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI≤1465𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) b. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI≤1420𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) Verifications for Maximum 1PPS Absolute Time Error 1. Verify that PTP and SyncE session is up and running. 2. Verify the 1PPS time error measurements using Clock Tester at O-RU UNI. a. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI≤1465𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) b. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI≤1420𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) Verifications for Time Wander 1. Verify the Time Wander using Clock tester at the O-RU UNI. a. Frequency Limit is ≤36𝑝𝑝𝑏 (For O-DU Class-A) b. Frequency Limit is ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (For O-DU Class-B) c. MTIE mask as per the limit specified. Case-2: O-DU1 Fail Detailed Test procedure 1. Fail the node O-DU1 by power off. Verifications for Maximum Absolute Time Error 1. Verify that PTP session is established via the path O-DU2-HSR1-CSR and CSR lock to HSR1. 2. Perform time error measurements on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI. a. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI≤1465𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) b. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI≤1420𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) Verifications for Maximum 1PPS Absolute Time Error 1. Verify that PTP and SyncE session is up and running. 2. Verify 1PPS time error measurements using Clock Tester at O-RU UNI. a. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI≤1465𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) b. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI≤1420𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) Verifications for Time Wander 1. Verify the Time Wander using Clock tester at the O-RU UNI. a. Frequency Limit is ≤36𝑝𝑝𝑏 (For O-DU Class-A) b. Frequency Limit is ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (For O-DU Class-B) c. MTIE mask as per the limit specified. Pass/Fail Criteria: Test shall pass if the Maximum absolute TE and Time Wander Limit measurement result is below the limit specified. Test Output End-to-End Expected Value Observed Network Limit at O- Value (For Enhanced RU) (For Regular RU) RU UNI Packet max|TE | ≤1465𝑛𝑠 ≤1420𝑛𝑠 L 1PPS max|TE | ≤1465𝑛𝑠 ≤1420𝑛𝑠 L Frequency Limit ≤36𝑝𝑝𝑏 ≤36𝑝𝑝𝑏 (For O-DU Class- A) Frequency Limit ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (For O-DU Class- B)

# 3 (PTP Fail-over/redundancy test)
Test ID SYNC.TE.18 Classification Synchronization, Performance, Time Error Test Title Failover performance test over LLS-C3 configuration Test Objective: Perform the below test at the O-RU UNI when GNSS to the Edge PRTC/T-GM is disconnected and backup timing from Network T-GM is switched over to maintain the synchronization: 1. Verify the Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝐿 2. Verify the Maximum Relative Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) between the O-RU 𝑅𝐿 UNI ports. 3. Verify the Maximum Absolute 1PPS Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝐿 4. Verify the Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝑅𝐿 5. Verify the Time Wander at O-RU UNI. Pre-Req Edge PRTC/T-GM connected to GNSS Simulator, and T-GM is locked. Network T-GM connected to GNSS Simulator and locked. O-RU UNI is the measurement plane. Test Topology: The test topology above illustrates the placement of clock tester at the measurement plane with 1PPS and 10MHz reference connected to clock tester. The tester measurement ports at O-RU UNI connected to the CSR. Test Configuration 1. Multiple Transport TNEs (HSR1, HSR2, CSR1 and CSR2) connected and configured as shown in the Test Topology. 2. Clock Tester at O-RU UNI receives timing input on its measurement port. 3. Provide 1PPS and 10MHz reference to Clock Tester from GNSS simulator. 4. G8275.1 profile configured for primary and backup path providing Full Timing Support (FTS) Procedure: Case-1: Normal Scenario (GNSS connectivity to both GM is Up) Detailed Test procedure: 1. Connect Edge PRTC/T-GM and Network T-GM to the GNSS Simulator and ensure both T-GMs locked. 2. Enable network connectivity among T-GMs, CSRs and HSRs. 3. Enable both Edge T-GM and Network T-GM with G.8275.1 profile. 4. Establish PTP connection (G.8275.1) sessions at each of the TNEs. 5. Configure Clock Tester for measurement profiles. 6. Perform the Time error measurement. Verifications for Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error 1. Verify that PTP session is up and running between Edge T-GM and CSR. 2. Verify time error measurements using Clock Tester for the PTP flows from CSR at the O-RU UNI. a. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) b. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) Verifications for Maximum Relative Packet Time Error (NOTE1) 1. Perform time error measurements on Clock Tester at O-RU1 and O-RU2 plane independently. Collect the data (𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸1,𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸1) 𝑎𝑛𝑑 (𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸2,𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸2) for both O-RU UNI at least for a period of 1000sec. 2. Estimate the Maximum Relative Time Error measurements between the O-RU UNI ports. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤60𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅2) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤190𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 c. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤100𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 As per ITU-T G.8271.1 Appendix-V1, the requirement is not to measure the continuous relative time error, TE (t), but to measure the maximum possible value it RL can take. 𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸 (1)−𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸 (2) max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)𝑡ℎ𝑒 𝑔𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡 𝑜𝑓 { 𝐿 𝐿 𝑅𝐿 𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸 (2)−𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸 (1) 𝐿 𝐿 Verifications for Maximum Absolute 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify that PTP session is up and running between T-GM and CSR. 2. Verify the 1PPS time error measurements on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI. a. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) b. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) Verifications for Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify that PTP and SyncE session is up and running. 2. Estimate the Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error measurements between the O-RU UNI ports. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤60𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅2) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤190𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 c. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤100𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 Verifications for Time Wander 1. Verify the Time Wander using Clock tester at the O-RU UNI. a. Frequency Limit is ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (For PRTC Class-A) b. MTIE mask as per the limit specified. Case-2: GNSS Connectivity to Edge T-GM Fails Detailed Test procedure: 1. Disconnect GNSS Simulator connection to Edge PRTC/T-GM and switch the Timing source to Network T-GM. 2. Monitor and log the Time Error at specified time interval. Verifications for Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error 1. Verify that the Edge T-GM moves to Phase Holdover and start advertising Clock Class=7 and CSR recover clock from Network T-GM via FTS network based on A-BTCA. Verify time error measurements using Clock Tester for the PTP flows from CSR at the O-RU UNI in while the Edge T-GM is in holdover. a. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) b. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) Verifications for Maximum Relative Packet Time Error (NOTE1) 1. Perform time error measurements on Clock Tester at O-RU1 and O-RU2 plane independently. Collect the data (𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸1,𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸1) 𝑎𝑛𝑑 (𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸2,𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸2) for both O-RU UNI at least for a period of 1000sec. 2. Estimate the Maximum Relative Time Error measurements between the O-RU UNI ports. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤60𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅2) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤190𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 c. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤100𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 As per ITU-T G.8271.1 Appendix-V1, the requirement is not to measure the continuous relative time error, TE (t), but to measure the maximum possible value it RL can take. 𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸 (1)−𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸 (2) max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)𝑡ℎ𝑒 𝑔𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡 𝑜𝑓 { 𝐿 𝐿 𝑅𝐿 𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸 (2)−𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸 (1) 𝐿 𝐿 Verifications for Maximum Absolute 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify that PTP session is up and running between T-GM and CSR. 2. Verify 1PPS time error measurements on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI. a. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) b. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) Verifications for Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify that PTP and SyncE session is up and running. 2. Estimate the Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error measurements between the O-RU UNI ports. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤60𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅2) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤190𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 c. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤100𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 Verifications for Time Wander 1. Verify the Time Wander using Clock tester at the O-RU UNI. a. Frequency Limit is ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (For PRTC Class-A) b. MTIE mask as per the limit specified. Pass/Fail Criteria: Test shall pass if the Maximum absolute TE, Maximum Relative TE and Wander Limit measurement result is below the limit specified. Test Output End-to-End Expected Value Observed Network Limit at O- Value (For Enhanced RU) (For Regular RU) RU UNI Packet max|TE | ≤1100𝑛𝑠 ≤1100𝑛𝑠 L Packet max|TE | ≤60𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅2) ≤100𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) RL ≤190𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) 1PPS max|TE | ≤1100𝑛𝑠 ≤1100𝑛𝑠 L 1PPS max|TE | ≤60𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅2) ≤100𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) RL ≤190𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) Frequency Limit ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (PRTC Class-A)

## 9.2 Timing Solution & Resiliency in Ring Topology (LLS-C3)
This chapter delivers the testing methodologies, parameters and performance limits for PTP-based network technologies in normal and fail-over or rearrangement scenarios of T-GM and TNEs across various network segments in the LLS-C3 configurations. The chapter is organized in different sections each representing a typical synchronization configuration mode. For each mode, all related metrics are identified, and limits are provided to deliver pass/fail verdicts. Various synchronization resiliency options have been defined in the O-RAN WG9 Synchronization Architecture and Solution Specification. Depending on the specific O-RAN deployment being considered, not all of them might be relevant. When testing the S-Plane, the System Integrator shall identify which of the test cases are relevant depending on the specific deployment scenarios addressed. Following high level options have been covered in this chapter and each of these options, clock advertisements and performance limits are discussed for normal and failover scenarios for T-GMs and TNEs in Backhaul, Midhaul and Fronthaul network segments in LLS-C3 configuration. Also scenarios like

# 16 Asymmetry and Passive Port Monitoring are covered.
1. Ring topology in Midhaul and Backhaul (LLS-C3 Configuration) a. O-DU connected to HSR and SYNC from Backhaul. b. O-DU connected to HSR and SYNC from Backhaul. (Aggregated Link) c. O-DU connected to CSR and SYNC from Backhaul. 2. Ring topology in Midhaul and Backhaul (LLS-C3 Configuration) a. O-DU connected to HSR and SYNC from Midhaul. b. O-DU connected to HSR and SYNC from Midhaul. (Aggregated Link) c. O-DU connected to CSR and SYNC from Midhaul. It is important to note that, though Passive Port Monitoring is an OPTIONAL feature in ITU-T G.8275.1 ANNEX-G, if implemented, it is necessary for the equipment to conform to the requirement as per the specifications. For PTP rearrangement scenarios like member-link failover in Aggregated Ethernet Bundle and for other failover scenarios, operator can make choice based on the vendor TNE capability to estimate the end-to-end clock performance limit. However, the performance limits specified in this chapter applicable for both normal and rearrangement scenarios. The test cases apply to both lab and field deployment cases. For lab cases, the type and number of inserted Transport Node Elements (TNE) will be determined by operators (or any other applicable end customer). The tests are performed at Xhaul UNI interfaces, and not between individual TNEs. The Xhaul UNI interfaces include O-RU Fronthaul UNI, O-DU Fronthaul or Midhaul UNI. 1PPS test at O-RU UNI is typically used for debugging and monitoring the packet layer performance of the nearest TNE in the fronthaul. The intention of such test is that if the TNE vendor implemented the 1PPS interface, the 1PPS error measured on such interface at the O-RU UNI should be a reflection of the output time error of TNE. Operator shall pay attention to an unacceptably large deviation of 1PPS error, beyond the limits specified, which may indicate an incorrect behaviour of TNEs. The Test Topologies in all the test cases uses GNSS simulator to generate the GNSS signal to the network PRTC/T-GM. This high-quality reference from the simulator is used as the external reference for clock testers as well. The resultant accuracy of this method is a few nanoseconds. However, one can also use a GNSS signal feeding both the initial PRTC/T-GM in the network and the reference clock generating a 1pps/10MHz used to synchronize the clock testers for the measurements. Operator can make an allowance in this case, for all of the measurements for the accuracy of the reference. The magnitude of this allowance will depend on the specific GNSS reference in use. For relative time error measurements at UNI (e.g., O-RU Fronthaul UNI) this document uses the metric max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2) as defined in [88], Appendix XI. Please note this metric represents an estimation and the 𝑅𝐿 worst-case scenario. Tests that meet (are below) the limits are seen as PASS. Tests not meeting this metric may still be acceptable. The decision is for operators to make. However, if the measurement equipment support relative time error measurement, operator can use such equipment. Refer ITU-T G.8271.1 Appendix

# 15 XI for more details.
For Frequency Limit at UNI (e.g., O-RU Fronthaul UNI) this document uses the metric defined as per WG4 section H.2 based on PRTC class for LLS-C3 configuration. Applicable MTIE limit shall apply for Frequency as per WG4 specification. The acceptable limits in all the below tests shall meet CUS specification worst case limits based on the maximum network size, but operator “should” apply the limits more aligned with the real tested configuration based on the network size.

### 9.2.1 Timing Resiliency in Ring Topology-O-DU connected to HSR and SYNC from Backhaul (LLS-C3)-Normal State (Case-1: T-GM1 is the
preferred GM) Test ID SYNC.RE.01 Classification Resiliency, Synchronization, Performance, Absolute Time Error, Relative Time Error Test Title Timing Resiliency in Ring Topology-O-DU connected to HSR and SYNC from Backhaul-Normal State without any Fail-over conditions exist (Case-1: T-GM1 is the preferred GM) Test Objective: 1. Verify the Clock Lock states on BRs, HSRs and CSRs. 2. Verify the steady-state clock advertisements on BRs, HSRs and CSRs. 3. Verify the Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝐿 4. Verify the Maximum Relative Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) between two O-RU 𝑅𝐿 UNI ports. 5. Verify the Maximum Absolute 1PPS Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝐿 6. Verify the Time Wander at the O-RU UNI. Pre-Req ✓ T-GM1 is the Primary GM and T-GM2 is the Secondary GM. ✓ Clock parameters of both T-GM1 and T-GM2 are same except Priority-2 & GMCID. ✓ Priority-2 on T-GM1=1 and T-GM2=2. Test Topology: The test topology above illustrates the placement of clock tester at the measurement plane with 1PPS and 10MHz reference from GNSS simulator connected to clock tester. The tester measurement ports at O-RU UNI connected to CSR. Test Configuration 1. Clock Tester at O-RU UNI receives timing input on its measurement port. 2. Provide 1PPS and 10MHz reference to Clock Tester from GNSS simulator. 3. G.8275.1 Full Timing Support profile. Procedure: Detailed Test procedure: 1. Connect both T-GMs to GNSS Simulator. 2. Configure T-GMs, BRs, HSRs and CSRs with G.8275.1 profile. 3. Connect Clock Tester measurement ports to CSRs TimeTransmitter ports to monitor PTP at the O-RU UNI. Verifications for Clock Advertisements 1. Verify the clock lock state on BRs, HSRs, CSRs. The lock state should be Phase-aligned. 2. Verify the steady-state clock advertisements on BRs, HSRs and CSRs as per ITU-T G.8275.1 Standard-Appendix V, Table V.3. Verifications for Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error 1. Verify that PTP session is up and running between T-GM and CSR. 2. Verify time error measurements using Clock Tester for the PTP flows from CSR at the O-RU UNI. a. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) b. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) Verifications for Maximum Relative Packet Time Error (NOTE1) 1. Perform time error measurements on Clock Tester at O-RU1 and O-RU2 plane independently. Collect the data (𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸1,𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸1) 𝑎𝑛𝑑 (𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸2,𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸2) for both O-RU UNI at least for a period of 1000sec. 2. Estimate the Maximum Relative Time Error measurements between the O-RU UNI ports. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤60𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅2) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤190𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 c. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤100𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 As per ITU-T G.8271.1 Appendix-V1, the requirement is not to measure the continuous relative time error, TE (t), but to measure the maximum possible value it RL can take. 𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸 (1)−𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸 (2) max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)𝑡ℎ𝑒 𝑔𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡 𝑜𝑓 { 𝐿 𝐿 𝑅𝐿 𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸 (2)−𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸 (1) 𝐿 𝐿 Verifications for Maximum Absolute 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify that PTP session is up and running between T-GM and CSR. 2. Verify the 1PPS time error measurements using Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI. a. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) b. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) Verifications for Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify that PTP and SyncE session is up and running. 2. Estimate the Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error measurements between the O-RU UNI ports. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤60𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅2) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤190𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 c. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤100𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 Verifications for Time Wander 1. Verify the Time Wander using Clock tester at the O-RU UNI. a. Frequency Limit is ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (For PRTC Class-A) b. MTIE mask as per the limit specified. NOTE1 (As per G.8271.1): To measure the relative time error, measure the time error from each point with respect to the internal time reference of measurement equipment, and then subtracting time error of one point from the other. Pass/Fail Criteria: Test shall pass if the Maximum Absolute TE, Relative TE and Time Wander Limit result is within the specified limits. Test Output End-to-End Expected Value Observed Network Limit at O- Value (For Enhanced RU) (For Regular RU) RU UNI Packet max|TE | ≤1100𝑛𝑠 ≤1100𝑛𝑠 L Packet max|TE | ≤60𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅2) ≤100𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) RL ≤190𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) 1PPS max|TE | ≤1100𝑛𝑠 ≤1100𝑛𝑠 L 1PPS max|TE | ≤60𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅2) ≤100𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) RL ≤190𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) Frequency Limit ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (PRTC Class-A) The above limits applicable for both Normal and Re-arrangement scenarios.

### 9.2.2 Timing Resiliency in Ring Topology-O-DU connected to HSR and SYNC from Backhaul (LLS-C3)-T-GM1 to BR1 Link Down. (Case-1:

# 3 T-GM1 is the preferred GM)
Test ID SYNC.RE.02 Classification Resiliency, Synchronization, Performance, Absolute Time Error, Relative Time Error Test Title Timing Resiliency in Ring Topology-O-DU connected to HSR and SYNC from Backhaul-T-GM1 to BR1 Link Down. (Case-1: T-GM1 is the preferred GM) Test Objective: 1. Verify the Clock Lock states on BRs, HSRs and CSRs. 2. Verify the clock advertisements on BRs, HSRs and CSRs. 3. Verify the Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝐿 4. Verify the Maximum Relative Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) between two O-RU 𝑅𝐿 UNI ports. 5. Verify the Maximum Absolute 1PPS Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝐿 6. Verify the Time Wander at the O-RU UNI. Pre-Req ✓ T-GM1 is the Primary GM and T-GM2 is the Secondary GM. ✓ Clock parameters of both T-GM1 and T-GM2 are same except Priority-2 & GMCID. ✓ Priority-2 on T-GM1=1 and T-GM2=2. ✓ Test 9.2.1 MUST PASS. Test Topology: The test topology above illustrates the placement of clock tester at the measurement plane with 1PPS and 10MHz reference from GNSS simulator connected to clock tester. The tester measurement ports at O-RU UNI connected to CSR. Stateful (ST) refers to the port configuration of neither explicit timeTransmitter nor explicit timeReceiver. When configured, it refers to the dynamic state of the port based on the received Announce message. Test Configuration 1. As per Test 9.2.1. 2. Fail the link between T-GM1 and BR1. Procedure: Detailed Test procedure: 1. Connect both T-GMs to GNSS Simulator. 2. Configure T-GMs, BRs, HSRs and CSRs with G.8275.1 profile. 3. Connect Clock Tester measurement ports to CSRs TimeTransmitter ports to monitor PTP at the O-RU UNI. Verifications for Clock Advertisements 1. Verify the clock lock state on BRs, HSRs, CSRs. The lock state should be Phase-aligned. 2. Verify the steady-state clock advertisements on BRs, HSRs and CSRs as per ITU-T G.8275.1 Standard-Appendix V, Table V.3. Verifications for Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error 1. Verify that PTP session is up and running between T-GM and CSR. 2. Verify time error measurements using Clock Tester for the PTP flows from CSR at the O-RU UNI. a. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) b. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) Verifications for Maximum Relative Packet Time Error (NOTE1) 1. Perform time error measurements on Clock Tester at O-RU1 and O-RU2 plane independently. Collect the data (𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸1,𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸1) 𝑎𝑛𝑑 (𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸2,𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸2) for both O-RU UNI at least for a period of 1000sec. 2. Estimate the Maximum Relative Time Error measurements between the O-RU UNI ports. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤60𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅2) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤190𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 c. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤100𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 As per ITU-T G.8271.1 Appendix-V1, the requirement is not to measure the continuous relative time error, TE (t), but to measure the maximum possible value it RL can take. 𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸 (1)−𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸 (2) max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)𝑡ℎ𝑒 𝑔𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡 𝑜𝑓 { 𝐿 𝐿 𝑅𝐿 𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸 (2)−𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸 (1) 𝐿 𝐿 Verifications for Maximum Absolute 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify that PTP session is up and running between T-GM and CSR. 2. Verify the 1PPS time error measurements using Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI. a. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) b. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) Verifications for Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify that PTP and SyncE session is up and running. 2. Estimate the Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error measurements between the O-RU UNI ports. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤60𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅2) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤190𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 c. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤100𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 Verifications for Time Wander 1. Verify the Time Wander using Clock tester at the O-RU UNI. a. Frequency Limit is≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (For PRTC Class-A) b. MTIE mask as per the limit specified. NOTE1 (As per G.8271.1): To measure the relative time error, measure the time error from each point with respect to the internal time reference of measurement equipment, and then subtracting time error of one point from the other. Pass/Fail Criteria: Test shall pass if the Maximum Absolute TE, Relative TE and Time Wander Limit result is within the specified limits. Test Output End-to-End Expected Value Observed Network Limit at O- Value (For Enhanced RU) (For Regular RU) RU UNI Packet max|TE | ≤1100𝑛𝑠 ≤1100𝑛𝑠 L Packet max|TE | ≤60𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅2) ≤100𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) RL ≤190𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) 1PPS max|TE | ≤1100𝑛𝑠 ≤1100𝑛𝑠 L 1PPS max|TE | ≤60𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅2) ≤100𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) RL ≤190𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) Frequency Limit ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (PRTC Class-A) The above limits applicable for both Normal and Re-arrangement scenarios.

### 9.2.3 Timing Resiliency in Ring Topology-O-DU connected to HSR and SYNC from Backhaul (LLS-C3)-T-GM1 Fail-over. (Case-1: T-GM1 is the preferred GM)
Test ID SYNC.RE.03 Classification Resiliency, Synchronization, Performance, Absolute Time Error, Relative Time Error Test Title Timing Resiliency in Ring Topology-O-DU connected to HSR and SYNC from Backhaul-T-GM1 Fail-over. (Case-1: T-GM1 is the preferred GM) Test Objective: 1. Verify the Clock Lock states on BRs, HSRs and CSRs. 2. Verify the clock advertisements on BRs, HSRs and CSRs. 3. Verify the Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝐿 4. Verify the Maximum Relative Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) between two O-RU 𝑅𝐿 UNI ports. 5. Verify the Maximum Absolute 1PPS Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝐿 6. Verify the Time Wander at the O-RU UNI. Pre-Req ✓ T-GM1 is the Primary GM and T-GM2 is the Secondary GM. ✓ Clock parameters of both T-GM1 and T-GM2 are same except Priority-2 & GMCID. ✓ Priority-2 on T-GM1=1 and T-GM2=2. ✓ Test 9.2.1 MUST PASS. Test Topology: The test topology above illustrates the placement of clock tester at the measurement plane with 1PPS and 10MHz reference from GNSS simulator connected to clock tester. The tester measurement ports at O-RU UNI connected to CSR. Stateful (ST) refers to the port configuration of neither explicit timeTransmitter nor explicit timeReceiver. When configured, it refers to the dynamic state of the port based on the received Announce message. Test Configuration 1. As per Test 9.2.1. 2. Fail the link between T-GM1 to BR1 and BR2 OR Power OFF the T-GM1. Procedure: Detailed Test procedure: 1. Connect both T-GMs to GNSS Simulator. 2. Configure T-GMs, BRs, HSRs and CSRs with G.8275.1 profile. 3. Connect Clock Tester measurement ports to CSRs TimeTransmitter ports to monitor PTP at the O-RU UNI. Verifications for Clock Advertisements 1. Verify that BR1 shall select clock from T-GM1 via BR2. 2. Verify the clock lock state on BRs, HSRs, CSRs. The lock state should be Phase-aligned. 3. Verify the steady-state clock advertisements on BRs, HSRs and CSRs as per ITU-T G.8275.1 Standard-Appendix V, Table V.3. Verifications for Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error 1. Verify that PTP session is up and running between T-GM and CSR. 2. Verify time error measurements using Clock Tester for the PTP flows from CSR at the O-RU UNI. a. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) b. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) Verifications for Maximum Relative Packet Time Error (NOTE1) 1. Perform time error measurements on Clock Tester at O-RU1 and O-RU2 plane independently. Collect the data (𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸1,𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸1) 𝑎𝑛𝑑 (𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸2,𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸2) for both O-RU UNI at least for a period of 1000sec. 2. Estimate the Maximum Relative Time Error measurements between the O-RU UNI ports. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤60𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅2) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤190𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 c. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤100𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 As per ITU-T G.8271.1 Appendix-V1, the requirement is not to measure the continuous relative time error, TE (t), but to measure the maximum possible value it RL can take. 𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸 (1)−𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸 (2) max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)𝑡ℎ𝑒 𝑔𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡 𝑜𝑓 { 𝐿 𝐿 𝑅𝐿 𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸 (2)−𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸 (1) 𝐿 𝐿 Verifications for Maximum Absolute 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify that PTP session is up and running between T-GM and CSR. 2. Verify the 1PPS time error measurements using Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI. a. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) b. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) Verifications for Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify that PTP and SyncE session is up and running. 2. Estimate the Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error measurements between the O-RU UNI ports. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤60𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅2) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤190𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 c. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤100𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 Verifications for Time Wander 1. Verify the Time Wander using Clock tester at the O-RU UNI. a. Frequency Limit is≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (For PRTC Class-A) b. MTIE mask as per the limit specified. NOTE1 (As per G.8271.1): To measure the relative time error, measure the time error from each point with respect to the internal time reference of measurement equipment, and then subtracting time error of one point from the other. Pass/Fail Criteria: Test shall pass if the Maximum Absolute TE, Relative TE and Time Wander Limit result is within the specified limits. Test Output End-to-End Expected Value Observed Network Limit at O- Value (For Enhanced RU) (For Regular RU) RU UNI Packet max|TE | ≤1100𝑛𝑠 ≤1100𝑛𝑠 L Packet max|TE | ≤60𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅2) ≤100𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) RL ≤190𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) 1PPS max|TE | ≤1100𝑛𝑠 ≤1100𝑛𝑠 L 1PPS max|TE | ≤60𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅2) ≤100𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) RL ≤190𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) Frequency Limit ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (PRTC Class-A) The above limits applicable for both Normal and Re-arrangement scenarios.

### 9.2.4 Timing Resiliency in Ring Topology-O-DU connected to HSR and SYNC from Backhaul (LLS-C3)-Ring Fail-over in Backhaul. (Case-1: T-GM1 is the
preferred GM) Test ID SYNC.RE.04 Classification Resiliency, Synchronization, Performance, Absolute Time Error, Relative Time Error Test Title Timing Resiliency in Ring Topology-O-DU connected to HSR and SYNC from Backhaul-Ring Fail-over in Backhaul. (Case-1: T-GM1 is the preferred GM) Test Objective: 1. Verify the Clock Lock states on BRs, HSRs and CSRs. 2. Verify the clock advertisements on BRs, HSRs and CSRs. 3. Verify the Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝐿 4. Verify the Maximum Relative Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) between two O-RU 𝑅𝐿 UNI ports. 5. Verify the Maximum Absolute 1PPS Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝐿 6. Verify the Time Wander at the O-RU UNI. Pre-Req ✓ T-GM1 is the Primary GM and T-GM2 is the Secondary GM. ✓ Clock parameters of both T-GM1 and T-GM2 are same except Priority-2 & GMCID. ✓ Priority-2 on T-GM1=1 and T-GM2=2. ✓ Test 9.2.1 MUST PASS. Test Topology: The test topology above illustrates the placement of clock tester at the measurement plane with 1PPS and 10MHz reference from GNSS simulator connected to clock tester. The tester measurement ports at O-RU UNI connected to CSR. Stateful (ST) refers to the port configuration of neither explicit timeTransmitter nor explicit timeReceiver. When configured, it refers to the dynamic state of the port based on the received Announce message. Test Configuration 1. As per Test 9.2.1. 2. Fail the link between BR1 and BR3. Procedure: Detailed Test procedure: 1. Connect both T-GMs to GNSS Simulator. 2. Configure T-GMs, BRs, HSRs and CSRs with G.8275.1 profile. 3. Connect Clock Tester measurement ports to CSRs TimeTransmitter ports to monitor PTP at the O-RU UNI. Verifications for Clock Advertisements 1. Verify that BR1 shall select clock from T-GM1 via BR2. 2. Verify the clock lock state on BRs, HSRs, CSRs. The lock state should be Phase-aligned. 3. Verify the steady-state clock advertisements on BRs, HSRs and CSRs as per ITU-T G.8275.1 Standard-Appendix V, Table V.3. Verifications for Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error 1. Verify that PTP session is up and running between T-GM and CSR. 2. Verify time error measurements using Clock Tester for the PTP flows from CSR at the O-RU UNI. a. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) b. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) Verifications for Maximum Relative Packet Time Error (NOTE1) 1. Perform time error measurements on Clock Tester at O-RU1 and O-RU2 plane independently. Collect the data (𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸1,𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸1) 𝑎𝑛𝑑 (𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸2,𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸2) for both O-RU UNI at least for a period of 1000sec. 2. Estimate the Maximum Relative Time Error measurements between the O-RU UNI ports. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤60𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅2) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤190𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 c. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤100𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 As per ITU-T G.8271.1 Appendix-V1, the requirement is not to measure the continuous relative time error, TE (t), but to measure the maximum possible value it RL can take. 𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸 (1)−𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸 (2) max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)𝑡ℎ𝑒 𝑔𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡 𝑜𝑓 { 𝐿 𝐿 𝑅𝐿 𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸 (2)−𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸 (1) 𝐿 𝐿 Verifications for Maximum Absolute 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify that PTP session is up and running between T-GM and CSR. 2. Verify the 1PPS time error measurements using Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI. a. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) b. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) Verifications for Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify that PTP and SyncE session is up and running. 2. Estimate the Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error measurements between the O-RU UNI ports. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤60𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅2) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤190𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 c. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤100𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 Verifications for Time Wander 1. Verify the Time Wander using Clock tester at the O-RU UNI. a. Frequency Limit is≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (For PRTC Class-A) b. MTIE mask as per the limit specified. NOTE1 (As per G.8271.1): To measure the relative time error, measure the time error from each point with respect to the internal time reference of measurement equipment, and then subtracting time error of one point from the other. Pass/Fail Criteria: Test shall pass if the Maximum Absolute TE, Relative TE and Time Wander Limit result is within the specified limits. Test Output End-to-End Expected Value Observed Network Limit at O- Value (For Enhanced RU) (For Regular RU) RU UNI Packet max|TE | ≤1100𝑛𝑠 ≤1100𝑛𝑠 L Packet max|TE | ≤60𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅2) ≤100𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) RL ≤190𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) 1PPS max|TE | ≤1100𝑛𝑠 ≤1100𝑛𝑠 L 1PPS max|TE | ≤60𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅2) ≤100𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) RL ≤190𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) Frequency Limit ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (PRTC Class-A) The above limits applicable for both Normal and Re-arrangement scenarios.

### 9.2.5 Timing Resiliency in Ring Topology-O-DU connected to HSR and SYNC from Backhaul (LLS-C3)-Ring Fail-over in Midhaul. (Case-1: T-GM1 is the
preferred GM) Test ID SYNC.RE.05 Classification Resiliency, Synchronization, Performance, Absolute Time Error, Relative Time Error Test Title Timing Resiliency in Ring Topology-O-DU connected to HSR and SYNC from Backhaul-Ring Fail-over in Midhaul. (Case-1: T-GM1 is the preferred GM) Test Objective: 1. Verify the Clock Lock states on BRs, HSRs and CSRs. 2. Verify the clock advertisements on BRs, HSRs and CSRs. 3. Verify the Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝐿 4. Verify the Maximum Relative Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) between two O-RU 𝑅𝐿 UNI ports. 5. Verify the Maximum Absolute 1PPS Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝐿 6. Verify the Time Wander at the O-RU UNI. Pre-Req ✓ T-GM1 is the Primary GM and T-GM2 is the Secondary GM. ✓ Clock parameters of both T-GM1 and T-GM2 are same except Priority-2 & GMCID. ✓ Priority-2 on T-GM1=1 and T-GM2=2. ✓ Test 9.2.1 MUST PASS. Test Topology: The test topology above illustrates the placement of clock tester at the measurement plane with 1PPS and 10MHz reference from GNSS simulator connected to clock tester. The tester measurement ports at O-RU UNI connected to CSR. Stateful (ST) refers to the port configuration of neither explicit timeTransmitter nor explicit timeReceiver. When configured, it refers to the dynamic state of the port based on the received Announce message. Test Configuration 1. As per Test 9.2.1. 2. Fail the link between BR1 and BR3. Procedure: Detailed Test procedure: 1. Connect both T-GMs to GNSS Simulator. 2. Configure T-GMs, BRs, HSRs and CSRs with G.8275.1 profile. 3. Connect Clock Tester measurement ports to CSRs TimeTransmitter ports to monitor PTP at the O-RU UNI. Verifications for Clock Advertisements 1. Verify that BR1 shall select clock from T-GM1 via BR2. 2. Verify the clock lock state on BRs, HSRs, CSRs. The lock state should be Phase-aligned. 3. Verify the steady-state clock advertisements on BRs, HSRs and CSRs as per ITU-T G.8275.1 Standard-Appendix V, Table V.3. Verifications for Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error 1. Verify that PTP session is up and running between T-GM and CSR. 2. Verify time error measurements using Clock Tester for the PTP flows from CSR at the O-RU UNI. a. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) b. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) Verifications for Maximum Relative Packet Time Error (NOTE1) 1. Perform time error measurements on Clock Tester at O-RU1 and O-RU2 plane independently. Collect the data (𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸1,𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸1) 𝑎𝑛𝑑 (𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸2,𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸2) for both O-RU UNI at least for a period of 1000sec. 2. Estimate the Maximum Relative Time Error measurements between the O-RU UNI ports. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤60𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅2) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤190𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 c. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤100𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 As per ITU-T G.8271.1 Appendix-V1, the requirement is not to measure the continuous relative time error, TE (t), but to measure the maximum possible value it RL can take. 𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸 (1)−𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸 (2) max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)𝑡ℎ𝑒 𝑔𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡 𝑜𝑓 { 𝐿 𝐿 𝑅𝐿 𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸 (2)−𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸 (1) 𝐿 𝐿 Verifications for Maximum Absolute 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify that PTP session is up and running between T-GM and CSR. 2. Verify the 1PPS time error measurements using Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI. a. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) b. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) Verifications for Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify that PTP and SyncE session is up and running. 2. Estimate the Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error measurements between the O-RU UNI ports. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤60𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅2) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤190𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 c. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤100𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 Verifications for Time Wander 1. Verify the Time Wander using Clock tester at the O-RU UNI. a. Frequency Limit is≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (For PRTC Class-A) b. MTIE mask as per the limit specified. NOTE1 (As per G.8271.1): To measure the relative time error, measure the time error from each point with respect to the internal time reference of measurement equipment, and then subtracting time error of one point from the other. Pass/Fail Criteria: Test shall pass if the Maximum Absolute TE, Relative TE and Time Wander Limit result is within the specified limits. Test Output End-to-End Expected Value Observed Network Limit at O- Value (For Enhanced RU) (For Regular RU) RU UNI Packet max|TE | ≤1100𝑛𝑠 ≤1100𝑛𝑠 L Packet max|TE | ≤60𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅2) ≤100𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) RL ≤190𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) 1PPS max|TE | ≤1100𝑛𝑠 ≤1100𝑛𝑠 L 1PPS max|TE | ≤60𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅2) ≤100𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) RL ≤190𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) Frequency Limit ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (PRTC Class-A) The above limits applicable for both Normal and Re-arrangement scenarios.

### 9.2.6 Timing Resiliency in Ring Topology-O-DU connected to HSR and SYNC from Backhaul (LLS-C3)-Ring Fail-over in Fronthaul. (Case-1: T-GM1 is the
preferred GM) Test ID SYNC.RE.06 Classification Resiliency, Synchronization, Performance, Absolute Time Error, Relative Time Error Test Title Timing Resiliency in Ring Topology-O-DU connected to HSR and SYNC from Backhaul-Ring Fail-over in Fronthaul. (Case-1: T-GM1 is the preferred GM) Test Objective: 1. Verify the Clock Lock states on BRs, HSRs and CSRs. 2. Verify the clock advertisements on BRs, HSRs and CSRs. 3. Verify the Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝐿 4. Verify the Maximum Relative Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) between two O-RU 𝑅𝐿 UNI ports. 5. Verify the Maximum Absolute 1PPS Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝐿 6. Verify the Time Wander at the O-RU UNI. Pre-Req ✓ T-GM1 is the Primary GM and T-GM2 is the Secondary GM. ✓ Clock parameters of both T-GM1 and T-GM2 are same except Priority-2 & GMCID. ✓ Priority-2 on T-GM1=1 and T-GM2=2. ✓ Test 9.2.1 MUST PASS. Test Topology: The test topology above illustrates the placement of clock tester at the measurement plane with 1PPS and 10MHz reference from GNSS simulator connected to clock tester. The tester measurement ports at O-RU UNI connected to CSR. Stateful (ST) refers to the port configuration of neither explicit timeTransmitter nor explicit timeReceiver. When configured, it refers to the dynamic state of the port based on the received Announce message. Test Configuration 1. As per Test 9.2.1. 2. Fail the link between HSR3 and CSR1. Procedure: Detailed Test procedure: 1. Connect both T-GMs to GNSS Simulator. 2. Configure T-GMs, BRs, HSRs and CSRs with G.8275.1 profile. 3. Connect Clock Tester measurement ports to CSRs TimeTransmitter ports to monitor PTP at the O-RU UNI. Verifications for Clock Advertisements 1. Verify that BR1 shall select clock from T-GM1 via BR2. 2. Verify the clock lock state on BRs, HSRs, CSRs. The lock state should be Phase-aligned. 3. Verify the steady-state clock advertisements on BRs, HSRs and CSRs as per ITU-T G.8275.1 Standard-Appendix V, Table V.3. Verifications for Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error 1. Verify that PTP session is up and running between T-GM and CSR. 2. Verify time error measurements using Clock Tester for the PTP flows from CSR at the O-RU UNI. a. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) b. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) Verifications for Maximum Relative Packet Time Error (NOTE1) 1. Perform time error measurements on Clock Tester at O-RU1 and O-RU2 plane independently. Collect the data (𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸1,𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸1) 𝑎𝑛𝑑 (𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸2,𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸2) for both O-RU UNI at least for a period of 1000sec. 2. Estimate the Maximum Relative Time Error measurements between the O-RU UNI ports. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤60𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅2) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤190𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 c. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤100𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 As per ITU-T G.8271.1 Appendix-V1, the requirement is not to measure the continuous relative time error, TE (t), but to measure the maximum possible value it RL can take. 𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸 (1)−𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸 (2) max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)𝑡ℎ𝑒 𝑔𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡 𝑜𝑓 { 𝐿 𝐿 𝑅𝐿 𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸 (2)−𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸 (1) 𝐿 𝐿 Verifications for Maximum Absolute 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify that PTP session is up and running between T-GM and CSR. 2. Verify the 1PPS time error measurements using Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI. a. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) b. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) Verifications for Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify that PTP and SyncE session is up and running. 2. Estimate the Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error measurements between the O-RU UNI ports. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤60𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅2) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤190𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 c. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤100𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 Verifications for Time Wander 1. Verify the Time Wander using Clock tester at the O-RU UNI. a. Frequency Limit is≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (For PRTC Class-A) b. MTIE mask as per the limit specified. NOTE1 (As per G.8271.1): To measure the relative time error, measure the time error from each point with respect to the internal time reference of measurement equipment, and then subtracting time error of one point from the other. Pass/Fail Criteria: Test shall pass if the Maximum Absolute TE, Relative TE and Time Wander Limit result is within the specified limits. Test Output End-to-End Expected Value Observed Network Limit at O- Value (For Enhanced RU) (For Regular RU) RU UNI Packet max|TE | ≤1100𝑛𝑠 ≤1100𝑛𝑠 L Packet max|TE | ≤60𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅2) ≤100𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) RL ≤190𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) 1PPS max|TE | ≤1100𝑛𝑠 ≤1100𝑛𝑠 L 1PPS max|TE | ≤60𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅2) ≤100𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) RL ≤190𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) Frequency Limit ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (PRTC Class-A) The above limits applicable for both Normal and Re-arrangement scenarios.

### 9.2.7 Timing Resiliency in Ring Topology-O-DU connected to HSR and SYNC from Backhaul (LLS-C3)-Asymmetry Test (Case-1: T-GM1 is the preferred GM)
Test ID SYNC.RE.07 Classification Resiliency, Synchronization, Performance, Absolute Time Error, Relative Time Error Test Title Timing Resiliency in Ring Topology-O-DU connected to HSR and SYNC from Backhaul-Asymmetry Test. (Case-1: T-GM1 is the preferred GM) Test Objective: 1. Verify the Clock Lock states on BRs, HSRs and CSRs. 2. Verify the steady-state clock advertisements on BRs, HSRs and CSRs. 3. Verify the Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝐿 4. Verify the Maximum Relative Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) between two O-RU 𝑅𝐿 UNI ports. 5. Verify the Maximum Absolute 1PPS Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝐿 6. Verify the Time Wander at the O-RU UNI. Pre-Req ✓ T-GM1 is the Primary GM and T-GM2 is the Secondary GM. ✓ Clock parameters of both T-GM1 and T-GM2 are same except Priority-2 & GMCID. ✓ Priority-2 on T-GM1=1 and T-GM2=2. Test Topology: The test topology above illustrates the placement of clock tester at the measurement plane with 1PPS and 10MHz reference from GNSS simulator connected to clock tester. The tester measurement ports at O-RU UNI connected to CSR. Stateful (ST) refers to the port configuration of neither explicit timeTransmitter nor explicit timeReceiver. When configured, it refers to the dynamic state of the port based on the received Announce message. Test Configuration 1. As per Test 9.2.1. 2. Introduce Asymmetry of +1000ns at the O/p of T-GM1 and No Asymmetry at the O/p of T-GM2. 3. Configure Asymmetry Compensation of +1000ns on BR1 and BR2 Procedure: Detailed Test procedure: 1. Connect both T-GMs to GNSS Simulator. 2. Configure T-GMs, BRs, HSRs and CSRs with G.8275.1 profile. 3. Connect Clock Tester measurement ports to CSRs TimeTransmitter ports to monitor PTP at the O-RU UNI. Verifications for Clock Advertisements 1. Verify the clock lock state on BRs, HSRs, CSRs. The lock state should be Phase-aligned. 2. Verify the steady-state clock advertisements on BRs, HSRs and CSRs as per ITU-T G.8275.1 Standard-Appendix V, Table V.3. After Step-2 of Test Configurations Verifications for Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error and 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify Performance Measurement during steady state. (1PPS and Packet Time Error should show an additional Error of +/-500ns due to Asymmetry) Verifications for Maximum Relative Packet Time Error (NOTE1) 1. Perform time error measurements on Clock Tester at O-RU1 and O-RU2 plane independently. Collect the data (𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸1,𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸1) 𝑎𝑛𝑑 (𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸2,𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸2) for both O-RU UNI at least for a period of 1000sec. 2. Estimate the Maximum Relative Time Error measurements between the O-RU UNI ports. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤60𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅2) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤190𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 c. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤100𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 As per ITU-T G.8271.1 Appendix-V1, the requirement is not to measure the continuous relative time error, TE (t), but to measure the maximum possible value it RL can take. 𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸 (1)−𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸 (2) max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)𝑡ℎ𝑒 𝑔𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡 𝑜𝑓 { 𝐿 𝐿 𝑅𝐿 𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸 (2)−𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸 (1) 𝐿 𝐿 Verifications for Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify that PTP and SyncE session is up and running. 2. Estimate the Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error measurements between the O-RU UNI ports. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤60𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅2) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤190𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 c. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤100𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 Verifications for Time Wander 1. Verify the Time Wander using Clock tester at the O-RU UNI. a. Frequency Limit is≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (For PRTC Class-A) b. MTIE mask as per the limit specified. NOTE1 (As per G.8271.1): To measure the relative time error, measure the time error from each point with respect to the internal time reference of measurement equipment, and then subtracting time error of one point from the other. After Step-3 of Test Configurations Verifications for Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error and 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify Performance Measurement during steady state. (1PPS and Packet Time Error shouldn’t show any additional Error of +/-500ns due to Asymmetry) Verifications for Maximum Relative Packet Time Error and 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify the Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error measurements between the O- RU UNI ports. The results should be as per Test 9.2.1. Pass/Fail Criteria: Test shall pass if the Maximum Absolute TE, Relative TE and Time Wander Limit result is within the specified limits. Test Output End-to-End Expected Value Observed Network Limit at O- Value (For Enhanced RU) (For Regular RU) RU UNI Packet max|TE | ≤1100𝑛𝑠 ≤1100𝑛𝑠 L Packet max|TE | ≤60𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅2) ≤100𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) RL ≤190𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) 1PPS max|TE | ≤1100𝑛𝑠 ≤1100𝑛𝑠 L 1PPS max|TE | ≤60𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅2) ≤100𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) RL ≤190𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) Frequency Limit ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (PRTC Class-A) The above limits for max|TE | doesn’t include the error due to Manual Asymmetry. L

### 9.2.8 Timing Resiliency in Ring Topology-O-DU connected to HSR and SYNC from Backhaul (LLS-C3)-Asymmetry Test with Link-Fail. (Case-1: T-GM1 is the
preferred GM) Test ID SYNC.RE.08 Classification Resiliency, Synchronization, Performance, Absolute Time Error, Relative Time Error Test Title Timing Resiliency in Ring Topology-O-DU connected to HSR and SYNC from Backhaul-Asymmetry Test with Link-Fail. (Case-1: T-GM1 is the preferred GM) Test Objective: 1. Verify the Clock Lock states on BRs, HSRs and CSRs. 2. Verify the steady-state clock advertisements on BRs, HSRs and CSRs. 3. Verify the Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝐿 4. Verify the Maximum Relative Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) between two O-RU 𝑅𝐿 UNI ports. 5. Verify the Maximum Absolute 1PPS Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝐿 6. Verify the Time Wander at the O-RU UNI. Pre-Req ✓ T-GM1 is the Primary GM and T-GM2 is the Secondary GM. ✓ Clock parameters of both T-GM1 and T-GM2 are same except Priority-2 & GMCID. ✓ Priority-2 on T-GM1=1 and T-GM2=2. Test Topology: The test topology above illustrates the placement of clock tester at the measurement plane with 1PPS and 10MHz reference from GNSS simulator connected to clock tester. The tester measurement ports at O-RU UNI connected to CSR. Stateful (ST) refers to the port configuration of neither explicit timeTransmitter nor explicit timeReceiver. When configured, it refers to the dynamic state of the port based on the received Announce message. Test Configuration 1. Pre-condition-Test 9.2.7 Configuration. 2. Remove the configured Asymmetry Compensation of +1000ns on BR1 and BR2 in TEST-7. 3. Fail the link between BR1 and T-GM1 and BR2 and T-GM1. Procedure: Detailed Test procedure: 1. Connect both T-GMs to GNSS Simulator. 2. Configure T-GMs, BRs, HSRs and CSRs with G.8275.1 profile. 3. Connect Clock Tester measurement ports to CSRs TimeTransmitter ports to monitor PTP at the O-RU UNI. Verifications for Clock Advertisements 1. Verify the clock lock state on BRs, HSRs, CSRs. The lock state should be Phase-aligned. 2. Verify the steady-state clock advertisements on BRs, HSRs and CSRs as per ITU-T G.8275.1 Standard-Appendix V, Table V.3. After Step-3 of Test Configurations Verifications for Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error and 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify Performance Measurement during steady state. (1PPS and Packet Time Error should show an additional Error of +/-500ns due to Asymmetry) Verifications for Maximum Relative Packet Time Error (NOTE1) 1. Perform time error measurements on Clock Tester at O-RU1 and O-RU2 plane independently. Collect the data (𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸1,𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸1) 𝑎𝑛𝑑 (𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸2,𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸2) for both O-RU UNI at least for a period of 1000sec. 2. Estimate the Maximum Relative Time Error measurements between the O-RU UNI ports. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤60𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅2) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤190𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 c. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤100𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 As per ITU-T G.8271.1 Appendix-V1, the requirement is not to measure the continuous relative time error, TE (t), but to measure the maximum possible value it RL can take. 𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸 (1)−𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸 (2) max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)𝑡ℎ𝑒 𝑔𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡 𝑜𝑓 { 𝐿 𝐿 𝑅𝐿 𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸 (2)−𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸 (1) 𝐿 𝐿 Verifications for Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify that PTP and SyncE session is up and running. 2. Estimate the Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error measurements between the O-RU UNI ports. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤60𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅2) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤190𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 c. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤100𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 Verifications for Time Wander 1. Verify the Time Wander using Clock tester at the O-RU UNI. a. Frequency Limit is≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (For PRTC Class-A) b. MTIE mask as per the limit specified. After Step-3 of Test Configurations Verifications for Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error and 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify Performance Measurement during steady state. (1PPS and Packet Time Error shouldn’t show any additional Error of +/-500ns due to Asymmetry) Verifications for Maximum Relative Packet Time Error and 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify the Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error measurements between the O- RU UNI ports. The results should be as per Test 9.2.1. NOTE1 (As per G.8271.1): To measure the relative time error, measure the time error from each point with respect to the internal time reference of measurement equipment, and then subtracting time error of one point from the other. Pass/Fail Criteria: Test shall pass if the Maximum Absolute TE, Relative TE and Time Wander Limit result is within the specified limits. Test Output End-to-End Expected Value Observed Network Limit at O- Value (For Enhanced RU) (For Regular RU) RU UNI Packet max|TE | ≤1100𝑛𝑠 ≤1100𝑛𝑠 L Packet max|TE | ≤60𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅2) ≤100𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) RL ≤190𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) 1PPS max|TE | ≤1100𝑛𝑠 ≤1100𝑛𝑠 L 1PPS max|TE | ≤60𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅2) ≤100𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) RL ≤190𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) Frequency Limit ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (PRTC Class-A) The above limits for max|TE | doesn’t include the error due to Manual Asymmetry. L

### 9.2.9 Timing Resiliency in Ring Topology-O-DU connected to HSR and SYNC from Backhaul (LLS-C3)-Aggregated Link (Case-1: T-GM1 is the preferred GM)
Test ID SYNC.RE.09 Classification Resiliency, Synchronization, Performance, Absolute Time Error, Relative Time Error Test Title Timing Resiliency in Ring Topology-O-DU connected to HSR and SYNC from Backhaul-Aggregated Link. (Case-1: T-GM1 is the preferred GM) Test Objective: 1. Verify the Clock Lock states on BRs, HSRs and CSRs. 2. Verify the steady-state clock advertisements on BRs, HSRs and CSRs. 3. Verify the Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝐿 4. Verify the Maximum Relative Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) between two O-RU 𝑅𝐿 UNI ports. 5. Verify the Maximum Absolute 1PPS Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝐿 6. Verify the Time Wander at the O-RU UNI. Pre-Req ✓ T-GM1 is the Primary GM and T-GM2 is the Secondary GM. ✓ Clock parameters of both T-GM1 and T-GM2 are same except Priority-2 & GMCID. ✓ Priority-2 on T-GM1=1 and T-GM2=2. Test Topology: The test topology above illustrates the placement of clock tester at the measurement plane with 1PPS and 10MHz reference from GNSS simulator connected to clock tester. The tester measurement ports at O-RU UNI connected to CSR. Stateful (ST) refers to the port configuration of neither explicit timeTransmitter nor explicit timeReceiver. When configured, it refers to the dynamic state of the port based on the received Announce message. Test Configuration 1. Clock Tester at O-RU UNI receives timing input on its measurement port. 2. Provide 1PPS and 10MHz reference to Clock Tester from GNSS simulator. 3. G.8275.1 Full Timing Support profile. Procedure: Detailed Test procedure: 1. Connect both T-GMs to GNSS Simulator. 2. Configure T-GMs, BRs, HSRs and CSRs with G.8275.1 profile over Aggregated Link in backhaul and midhaul. 3. Connect Clock Tester measurement ports to CSRs TimeTransmitter ports to monitor PTP at the O-RU UNI. Verifications for Clock Advertisements 1. Verify the clock lock state on BRs, HSRs, CSRs. The lock state should be Phase-aligned. 2. Verify the steady-state clock advertisements on BRs, HSRs and CSRs as per ITU-T G.8275.1 Standard-Appendix V, Table V.3. Verifications for Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error 1. Verify that PTP session is up and running between T-GM and CSR. 2. Verify time error measurements using Clock Tester for the PTP flows from CSR at the O-RU UNI. a. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) b. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) Verifications for Maximum Relative Packet Time Error (NOTE1) 1. Perform time error measurements on Clock Tester at O-RU1 and O-RU2 plane independently. Collect the data (𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸1,𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸1) 𝑎𝑛𝑑 (𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸2,𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸2) for both O-RU UNI at least for a period of 1000sec. 2. Estimate the Maximum Relative Time Error measurements between the O-RU UNI ports. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤60𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅2) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤190𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 c. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤100𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 As per ITU-T G.8271.1 Appendix-V1, the requirement is not to measure the continuous relative time error, TE (t), but to measure the maximum possible value it RL can take. 𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸 (1)−𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸 (2) max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)𝑡ℎ𝑒 𝑔𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡 𝑜𝑓 { 𝐿 𝐿 𝑅𝐿 𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸 (2)−𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸 (1) 𝐿 𝐿 Verifications for Maximum Absolute 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify that PTP session is up and running between T-GM and CSR. 2. Verify the 1PPS time error measurements using Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI. a. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) b. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) Verifications for Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify that PTP and SyncE session is up and running. 2. Estimate the Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error measurements between the O-RU UNI ports. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤60𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅2) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤190𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 c. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤100𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 Verifications for Time Wander 1. Verify the Time Wander using Clock tester at the O-RU UNI. a. Frequency Limit is ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (For PRTC Class-A) b. MTIE mask as per the limit specified. NOTE1 (As per G.8271.1): To measure the relative time error, measure the time error from each point with respect to the internal time reference of measurement equipment, and then subtracting time error of one point from the other. Pass/Fail Criteria: Test shall pass if the Maximum Absolute TE, Relative TE and Time Wander Limit result is within the specified limits. Test Output End-to-End Expected Value Observed Network Limit at O- Value (For Enhanced RU) (For Regular RU) RU UNI Packet max|TE | ≤1100𝑛𝑠 ≤1100𝑛𝑠 L Packet max|TE | ≤60𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅2) ≤100𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) RL ≤190𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) 1PPS max|TE | ≤1100𝑛𝑠 ≤1100𝑛𝑠 L 1PPS max|TE | ≤60𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅2) ≤100𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) RL ≤190𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) Frequency Limit ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (PRTC Class-A) The above limits applicable for both Normal and Re-arrangement scenarios.

### 9.2.10 Timing Resiliency in Ring Topology-O-DU connected to HSR and SYNC
from Backhaul (LLS-C3)-Aggregated Link-BR1 to BR3 primary member link down. (Case-1: T-GM1 is the preferred GM) Test ID SYNC.RE.10 Classification Resiliency, Synchronization, Performance, Absolute Time Error, Relative Time Error Test Title Timing Resiliency in Ring Topology-O-DU connected to HSR and SYNC from Backhaul-Aggregated Link-BR1 to BR3 primary member link down. (Case-1: T-GM1 is the preferred GM) Test Objective: 1. Verify the Clock Lock states on BRs, HSRs and CSRs. 2. Verify the clock advertisements on BRs, HSRs and CSRs. 3. Verify the Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝐿 4. Verify the Maximum Relative Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) between two O-RU 𝑅𝐿 UNI ports. 5. Verify the Maximum Absolute 1PPS Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝐿 6. Verify the Time Wander at the O-RU UNI. Pre-Req ✓ T-GM1 is the Primary GM and T-GM2 is the Secondary GM. ✓ Clock parameters of both T-GM1 and T-GM2 are same except Priority-2 & GMCID. ✓ Priority-2 on T-GM1=1 and T-GM2=2. Test Topology: The test topology above illustrates the placement of clock tester at the measurement plane with 1PPS and 10MHz reference from GNSS simulator connected to clock tester. The tester measurement ports at O-RU UNI connected to CSR. Stateful (ST) refers to the port configuration of neither explicit timeTransmitter nor explicit timeReceiver. When configured, it refers to the dynamic state of the port based on the received Announce message. Test Configuration 1. Pre-condition-Test 9.2.9 Configuration. 2. Fail the Primary member link between BR1 and BR3 in the Aggregated Ethernet Bundle. Procedure: Detailed Test procedure: 1. Connect both T-GMs to GNSS Simulator. 2. Configure T-GMs, BRs, HSRs and CSRs with G.8275.1 profile over Aggregated Link in backhaul and midhaul. 3. Connect Clock Tester measurement ports to CSRs TimeTransmitter ports to monitor PTP at the O-RU UNI. Verifications for Clock Advertisements 1. Verify the clock lock state on BRs, HSRs, CSRs. The lock state should be Phase-aligned. 2. Verify the steady-state clock advertisements on BRs, HSRs and CSRs as per ITU-T G.8275.1 Standard-Appendix V, Table V.3. Verifications for Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error 1. Verify that PTP session is up and running between T-GM and CSR. 2. Verify time error measurements using Clock Tester for the PTP flows from CSR at the O-RU UNI. a. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) b. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) Verifications for Maximum Relative Packet Time Error (NOTE1) 1. Perform time error measurements on Clock Tester at O-RU1 and O-RU2 plane independently. Collect the data (𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸1,𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸1) 𝑎𝑛𝑑 (𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸2,𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸2) for both O-RU UNI at least for a period of 1000sec. 2. Estimate the Maximum Relative Time Error measurements between the O-RU UNI ports. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤60𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅2) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤190𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 c. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤100𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 As per ITU-T G.8271.1 Appendix-V1, the requirement is not to measure the continuous relative time error, TE (t), but to measure the maximum possible value it RL can take. 𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸 (1)−𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸 (2) max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)𝑡ℎ𝑒 𝑔𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡 𝑜𝑓 { 𝐿 𝐿 𝑅𝐿 𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸 (2)−𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸 (1) 𝐿 𝐿 Verifications for Maximum Absolute 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify that PTP session is up and running between T-GM and CSR. 2. Verify the 1PPS time error measurements using Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI. a. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) b. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) Verifications for Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify that PTP and SyncE session is up and running. 2. Estimate the Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error measurements between the O-RU UNI ports. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤60𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅2) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤190𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 c. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤100𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 Verifications for Time Wander 1. Verify the Time Wander using Clock tester at the O-RU UNI. a. Frequency Limit is≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (For PRTC Class-A) b. MTIE mask as per the limit specified. NOTE1 (As per G.8271.1): To measure the relative time error, measure the time error from each point with respect to the internal time reference of measurement equipment, and then subtracting time error of one point from the other. Pass/Fail Criteria: Test shall pass if the Maximum Absolute TE, Relative TE and Time Wander Limit result is within the specified limits. Test Output End-to-End Expected Value Observed Network Limit at O- Value (For Enhanced RU) (For Regular RU) RU UNI Packet max|TE | ≤1100𝑛𝑠 ≤1100𝑛𝑠 L Packet max|TE | ≤60𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅2) ≤100𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) RL ≤190𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) 1PPS max|TE | ≤1100𝑛𝑠 ≤1100𝑛𝑠 L 1PPS max|TE | ≤60𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅2) ≤100𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) RL ≤190𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) Frequency Limit ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (PRTC Class-A) The above limits applicable for both Normal and Re-arrangement scenarios.

### 9.2.11 Timing Resiliency in Ring Topology-O-DU connected to HSR and SYNC
from Backhaul (LLS-C3)-Normal State (Case-2: Both T-GMs are of equal preference) Test ID SYNC.RE.011 Classification Resiliency, Synchronization, Performance, Absolute Time Error, Relative Time Error Test Title Timing Resiliency in Ring Topology-O-DU connected to HSR and SYNC from Backhaul-Normal State without any Fail-over conditions exist. (Case-2: Both T-GMs are of equal preference) Test Objective: 1. Verify the Clock Lock states on BRs, HSRs and CSRs. 2. Verify the steady-state clock advertisements on BRs, HSRs and CSRs. 3. Verify the Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝐿 4. Verify the Maximum Relative Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) between two O-RU 𝑅𝐿 UNI ports. 5. Verify the Maximum Absolute 1PPS Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝐿 6. Verify the Time Wander at the O-RU UNI. Pre-Req ✓ Both T-GM1 and T-GM2 are available to the network. ✓ Clock parameters of both T-GM1 and T-GM2 are same except GMCID. ✓ Port-Identity of T-GM1 < Port-Identity of T-GM2. Test Topology: The test topology above illustrates the placement of clock tester at the measurement plane with 1PPS and 10MHz reference from GNSS simulator connected to clock tester. The tester measurement ports at O-RU UNI connected to CSR. Stateful (ST) refers to the port configuration of neither explicit timeTransmitter nor explicit timeReceiver. When configured, it refers to the dynamic state of the port based on the received Announce message. Test Configuration 1. Clock Tester at O-RU UNI receives timing input on its measurement port. 2. Provide 1PPS and 10MHz reference to Clock Tester from GNSS simulator. 3. G.8275.1 Full Timing Support profile. Procedure: Detailed Test procedure: 1. Connect both T-GMs to GNSS Simulator. 2. Configure T-GMs, BRs, HSRs and CSRs with G.8275.1 profile. 3. Connect Clock Tester measurement ports to CSRs TimeTransmitter ports to monitor PTP at the O-RU UNI. Verifications for Clock Advertisements 1. BR1 shall select clock from T-GM1 (T-GM1 is better by topology) based on Port- id of Sender of A and sender of B). 2. BR2 shall select clock from T-GM1 (T-GM1 is better by topology) based on Port- id of Sender of A and sender of B). 3. Verify the clock lock state on BRs, HSRs, CSRs. The lock state should be Phase-aligned. 4. Verify the steady-state clock advertisements on BRs, HSRs and CSRs as per ITU-T G.8275.1 Standard-Appendix V, Table V.3. Verifications for Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error 1. Verify that PTP session is up and running between T-GM and CSR. 2. Verify time error measurements using Clock Tester for the PTP flows from CSR at the O-RU UNI. a. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) b. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) Verifications for Maximum Relative Packet Time Error (NOTE1) 1. Perform time error measurements on Clock Tester at O-RU1 and O-RU2 plane independently. Collect the data (𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸1,𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸1) 𝑎𝑛𝑑 (𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸2,𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸2) for both O-RU UNI at least for a period of 1000sec. 2. Estimate the Maximum Relative Time Error measurements between the O-RU UNI ports. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤60𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅2) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤190𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 c. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤100𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 As per ITU-T G.8271.1 Appendix-V1, the requirement is not to measure the continuous relative time error, TE (t), but to measure the maximum possible value it RL can take. 𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸 (1)−𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸 (2) max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)𝑡ℎ𝑒 𝑔𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡 𝑜𝑓 { 𝐿 𝐿 𝑅𝐿 𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸 (2)−𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸 (1) 𝐿 𝐿 Verifications for Maximum Absolute 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify that PTP session is up and running between T-GM and CSR. 2. Verify the 1PPS time error measurements using Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI. a. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) b. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) Verifications for Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify that PTP and SyncE session is up and running. 2. Estimate the Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error measurements between the O-RU UNI ports. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤60𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅2) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤190𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 c. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤100𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 Verifications for Time Wander 1. Verify the Time Wander using Clock tester at the O-RU UNI. a. Frequency Limit is≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (For PRTC Class-A) b. MTIE mask as per the limit specified. NOTE1 (As per G.8271.1): To measure the relative time error, measure the time error from each point with respect to the internal time reference of measurement equipment, and then subtracting time error of one point from the other. Pass/Fail Criteria: Test shall pass if the Maximum Absolute TE, Relative TE and Time Wander Limit result is within the specified limits. Test Output End-to-End Expected Value Observed Network Limit at O- Value (For Enhanced RU) (For Regular RU) RU UNI Packet max|TE | ≤1100𝑛𝑠 ≤1100𝑛𝑠 L Packet max|TE | ≤60𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅2) ≤100𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) RL ≤190𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) 1PPS max|TE | ≤1100𝑛𝑠 ≤1100𝑛𝑠 L 1PPS max|TE | ≤60𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅2) ≤100𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) RL ≤190𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) Frequency Limit ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (PRTC Class-A) The above limits applicable for both Normal and Re-arrangement scenarios.

### 9.2.12 Timing Resiliency in Ring Topology-O-DU connected to HSR and SYNC
from Backhaul (LLS-C3)-T-GM1 to BR1 Link Down. (Case-2: Both T-GMs are of equal preference) Test ID SYNC.RE.12 Classification Resiliency, Synchronization, Performance, Absolute Time Error, Relative Time Error Test Title Timing Resiliency in Ring Topology-O-DU connected to HSR and SYNC from Backhaul-T-GM1 to BR1 Link Down. (Case-2: Both T-GMs are of equal preference) Test Objective: 1. Verify the Clock Lock states on BRs, HSRs and CSRs. 2. Verify the clock advertisements on BRs, HSRs and CSRs. 3. Verify the Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝐿 4. Verify the Maximum Relative Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) between two O-RU 𝑅𝐿 UNI ports. 5. Verify the Maximum Absolute 1PPS Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝐿 6. Verify the Time Wander at the O-RU UNI. Pre-Req ✓ Both T-GM1 and T-GM2 are available to the network. ✓ Clock parameters of both T-GM1 and T-GM2 are same except GMCID. ✓ Port-Identity of T-GM1 < Port-Identity of T-GM2. ✓ Test 9.2.11 MUST PASS. Test Topology: The test topology above illustrates the placement of clock tester at the measurement plane with 1PPS and 10MHz reference from GNSS simulator connected to clock tester. The tester measurement ports at O-RU UNI connected to CSR. Stateful (ST) refers to the port configuration of neither explicit timeTransmitter nor explicit timeReceiver. When configured, it refers to the dynamic state of the port based on the received Announce message. Test Configuration 1. As per Test 9.2.11. 2. Fail the link between T-GM1 and BR1. Procedure: Detailed Test procedure: 1. Connect both T-GMs to GNSS Simulator. 2. Configure T-GMs, BRs, HSRs and CSRs with G.8275.1 profile. 3. Connect Clock Tester measurement ports to CSRs TimeTransmitter ports to monitor PTP at the O-RU UNI. Verifications for Clock Advertisements 1. BR1 shall select clock from T-GM2 (T-GM2 is better (or better by topology) based on Port-id of receiver of A and sender of A) on the shortest path with Step-removal=0. 2. BR2 shall select clock from T-GM1 (T-GM1 is better by topology) based on Port- id of sender of A and sender of B). 3. Verify the clock lock state on BRs, HSRs, CSRs. The lock state should be Phase-aligned. 4. Verify the steady-state clock advertisements on BRs, HSRs and CSRs as per ITU-T G.8275.1 Standard-Appendix V, Table V.3. Verifications for Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error 1. Verify that PTP session is up and running between T-GM and CSR. 2. Verify time error measurements using Clock Tester for the PTP flows from CSR at the O-RU UNI. a. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) b. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) Verifications for Maximum Relative Packet Time Error (NOTE1) 1. Perform time error measurements on Clock Tester at O-RU1 and O-RU2 plane independently. Collect the data (𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸1,𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸1) 𝑎𝑛𝑑 (𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸2,𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸2) for both O-RU UNI at least for a period of 1000sec. 2. Estimate the Maximum Relative Time Error measurements between the O-RU UNI ports. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤60𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅2) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤190𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 c. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤100𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 As per ITU-T G.8271.1 Appendix-V1, the requirement is not to measure the continuous relative time error, TE (t), but to measure the maximum possible value it RL can take. 𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸 (1)−𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸 (2) max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)𝑡ℎ𝑒 𝑔𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡 𝑜𝑓 { 𝐿 𝐿 𝑅𝐿 𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸 (2)−𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸 (1) 𝐿 𝐿 Verifications for Maximum Absolute 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify that PTP session is up and running between T-GM and CSR. 2. Verify the 1PPS time error measurements using Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI. a. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) b. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) Verifications for Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify that PTP and SyncE session is up and running. 2. Estimate the Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error measurements between the O-RU UNI ports. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤60𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅2) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤190𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 c. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤100𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 Verifications for Time Wander 1. Verify the Time Wander using Clock tester at the O-RU UNI. a. Frequency Limit is≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (For PRTC Class-A) b. MTIE mask as per the limit specified. NOTE1 (As per G.8271.1): To measure the relative time error, measure the time error from each point with respect to the internal time reference of measurement equipment, and then subtracting time error of one point from the other. Pass/Fail Criteria: Test shall pass if the Maximum Absolute TE, Relative TE and Time Wander Limit result is within the specified limits. Test Output End-to-End Expected Value Observed Network Limit at O- Value (For Enhanced RU) (For Regular RU) RU UNI Packet max|TE | ≤1100𝑛𝑠 ≤1100𝑛𝑠 L Packet max|TE | ≤60𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅2) ≤100𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) RL ≤190𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) 1PPS max|TE | ≤1100𝑛𝑠 ≤1100𝑛𝑠 L 1PPS max|TE | ≤60𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅2) ≤100𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) RL ≤190𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) Frequency Limit ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (PRTC Class-A) The above limits applicable for both Normal and Re-arrangement scenarios.

### 9.2.13 Timing Resiliency in Ring Topology-O-DU connected to HSR and SYNC
from Backhaul (LLS-C3)-Normal State (Case-3: T-GM1 is preferred through explicit configuration via Local-Priority on TNEs) Test ID SYNC.RE.13 Classification Resiliency, Synchronization, Performance, Absolute Time Error, Relative Time Error Test Title Timing Resiliency in Ring Topology-O-DU connected to HSR and SYNC from Backhaul-Normal State without any Fail-over conditions exist. (Case-3: T-GM1 is preferred through explicit configuration via Local-Priority on TNEs) Test Objective: 1. Verify the Clock Lock states on BRs, HSRs and CSRs. 2. Verify the steady-state clock advertisements on BRs, HSRs and CSRs. 3. Verify the Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝐿 4. Verify the Maximum Relative Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) between two O-RU 𝑅𝐿 UNI ports. 5. Verify the Maximum Absolute 1PPS Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝐿 6. Verify the Time Wander at the O-RU UNI. Pre-Req ✓ Both T-GM1 and T-GM2 are available to the network. ✓ Clock parameters of both T-GM1 and T-GM2 are same except GMCID. ✓ Local Priority Configuration on BR1 and BR2 for T-GM1 is 1 and that for T-GM2 is 2. Test Topology: The test topology above illustrates the placement of clock tester at the measurement plane with 1PPS and 10MHz reference from GNSS simulator connected to clock tester. The tester measurement ports at O-RU UNI connected to CSR. Stateful (ST) refers to the port configuration of neither explicit timeTransmitter nor explicit timeReceiver. When configured, it refers to the dynamic state of the port based on the received Announce message. Test Configuration 1. Clock Tester at O-RU UNI receives timing input on its measurement port. 2. Provide 1PPS and 10MHz reference to Clock Tester from GNSS simulator. 3. G.8275.1 Full Timing Support profile. Procedure: Detailed Test procedure: 1. Connect both T-GMs to GNSS Simulator. 2. Configure T-GMs, BRs, HSRs and CSRs with G.8275.1 profile. 3. Connect Clock Tester measurement ports to CSRs TimeTransmitter ports to monitor PTP at the O-RU UNI. Verifications for Clock Advertisements 1. BR1 and BR2 shall select clock from T-GM1. 2. Verify the clock lock state on BRs, HSRs, CSRs. The lock state should be Phase-aligned. 3. Verify the steady-state clock advertisements on BRs, HSRs and CSRs as per ITU-T G.8275.1 Standard-Appendix V, Table V.3. Verifications for Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error 1. Verify that PTP session is up and running between T-GM and CSR. 2. Verify time error measurements using Clock Tester for the PTP flows from CSR at the O-RU UNI. a. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) b. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) Verifications for Maximum Relative Packet Time Error (NOTE1) 1. Perform time error measurements on Clock Tester at O-RU1 and O-RU2 plane independently. Collect the data (𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸1,𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸1) 𝑎𝑛𝑑 (𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸2,𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸2) for both O-RU UNI at least for a period of 1000sec. 2. Estimate the Maximum Relative Time Error measurements between the O-RU UNI ports. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤60𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅2) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤190𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 c. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤100𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 As per ITU-T G.8271.1 Appendix-V1, the requirement is not to measure the continuous relative time error, TE (t), but to measure the maximum possible value it RL can take. 𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸 (1)−𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸 (2) max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)𝑡ℎ𝑒 𝑔𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡 𝑜𝑓 { 𝐿 𝐿 𝑅𝐿 𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸 (2)−𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸 (1) 𝐿 𝐿 Verifications for Maximum Absolute 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify that PTP session is up and running between T-GM and CSR. 2. Verify the 1PPS time error measurements using Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI. a. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) b. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) Verifications for Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify that PTP and SyncE session is up and running. 2. Estimate the Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error measurements between the O-RU UNI ports. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤60𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅2) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤190𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 c. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤100𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 Verifications for Time Wander 1. Verify the Time Wander using Clock tester at the O-RU UNI. a. Frequency Limit is ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (For PRTC Class-A) b. MTIE mask as per the limit specified. NOTE1 (As per G.8271.1): To measure the relative time error, measure the time error from each point with respect to the internal time reference of measurement equipment, and then subtracting time error of one point from the other. Pass/Fail Criteria: Test shall pass if the Maximum Absolute TE, Relative TE and Time Wander Limit result is within the specified limits. Test Output End-to-End Expected Value Observed Network Limit at O- Value (For Enhanced RU) (For Regular RU) RU UNI Packet max|TE | ≤1100𝑛𝑠 ≤1100𝑛𝑠 L Packet max|TE | ≤60𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅2) ≤100𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) RL ≤190𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) 1PPS max|TE | ≤1100𝑛𝑠 ≤1100𝑛𝑠 L 1PPS max|TE | ≤60𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅2) ≤100𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) RL ≤190𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) Frequency Limit ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (PRTC Class-A) The above limits applicable for both Normal and Re-arrangement scenarios.

### 9.2.14 Timing Resiliency in Ring Topology-O-DU connected to HSR and SYNC from Backhaul (LLS-C3)-T-GM1 to BR1 Link Down. (Case-3:

# 4 T-GM1 is preferred through explicit configuration via Local-Priority
on TNEs) Test ID SYNC.RE.14 Classification Resiliency, Synchronization, Performance, Absolute Time Error, Relative Time Error Test Title Timing Resiliency in Ring Topology-O-DU connected to HSR and SYNC from Backhaul-T-GM1 to BR1 Link Down. (Case-3: T-GM1 is preferred through explicit configuration via Local-Priority on TNEs) Test Objective: 1. Verify the Clock Lock states on BRs, HSRs and CSRs. 2. Verify the clock advertisements on BRs, HSRs and CSRs. 3. Verify the Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝐿 4. Verify the Maximum Relative Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) between two O-RU 𝑅𝐿 UNI ports. 5. Verify the Maximum Absolute 1PPS Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝐿 6. Verify the Time Wander at the O-RU UNI. Pre-Req ✓ Both T-GM1 and T-GM2 are available to the network. ✓ Clock parameters of both T-GM1 and T-GM2 are same except GMCID. ✓ Local Priority Configuration on BR1 and BR2 for T-GM1 is 1 and that for T-GM2 is 2. ✓ Test 9.2.13 MUST PASS. Test Topology: The test topology above illustrates the placement of clock tester at the measurement plane with 1PPS and 10MHz reference from GNSS simulator connected to clock tester. The tester measurement ports at O-RU UNI connected to CSR. Stateful (ST) refers to the port configuration of neither explicit timeTransmitter nor explicit timeReceiver. When configured, it refers to the dynamic state of the port based on the received Announce message. Test Configuration 1. As per Test 9.2.13. 2. Fail the link between T-GM1 and BR1. Procedure: Detailed Test procedure: 1. Connect both T-GMs to GNSS Simulator. 2. Configure T-GMs, BRs, HSRs and CSRs with G.8275.1 profile. 3. Connect Clock Tester measurement ports to CSRs TimeTransmitter ports to monitor PTP at the O-RU UNI. Verifications for Clock Advertisements 1. BR1 shall select clock from T-GM2. 2. BR2 shall select clock from T-GM1. 3. Verify the clock lock state on BRs, HSRs, CSRs. The lock state should be Phase-aligned. 4. Verify the steady-state clock advertisements on BRs, HSRs and CSRs as per ITU-T G.8275.1 Standard-Appendix V, Table V.3. Verifications for Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error 1. Verify that PTP session is up and running between T-GM and CSR. 2. Verify time error measurements using Clock Tester for the PTP flows from CSR at the O-RU UNI. a. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) b. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) Verifications for Maximum Relative Packet Time Error (NOTE1) 1. Perform time error measurements on Clock Tester at O-RU1 and O-RU2 plane independently. Collect the data (𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸1,𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸1) 𝑎𝑛𝑑 (𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸2,𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸2) for both O-RU UNI at least for a period of 1000sec. 2. Estimate the Maximum Relative Time Error measurements between the O-RU UNI ports. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤60𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅2) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤190𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 c. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤100𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 As per ITU-T G.8271.1 Appendix-V1, the requirement is not to measure the continuous relative time error, TE (t), but to measure the maximum possible value it RL can take. 𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸 (1)−𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸 (2) max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)𝑡ℎ𝑒 𝑔𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡 𝑜𝑓 { 𝐿 𝐿 𝑅𝐿 𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸 (2)−𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸 (1) 𝐿 𝐿 Verifications for Maximum Absolute 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify that PTP session is up and running between T-GM and CSR. 2. Verify the 1PPS time error measurements using Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI. a. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) b. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) Verifications for Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify that PTP and SyncE session is up and running. 2. Estimate the Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error measurements between the O-RU UNI ports. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤60𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅2) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤190𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 c. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤100𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 Verifications for Time Wander 1. Verify the Time Wander using Clock tester at the O-RU UNI. a. Frequency Limit is≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (For PRTC Class-A) b. MTIE mask as per the limit specified. NOTE1 (As per G.8271.1): To measure the relative time error, measure the time error from each point with respect to the internal time reference of measurement equipment, and then subtracting time error of one point from the other. Pass/Fail Criteria: Test shall pass if the Maximum Absolute TE, Relative TE and Time Wander Limit result is within the specified limits. Test Output End-to-End Expected Value Observed Network Limit at O- Value (For Enhanced RU) (For Regular RU) RU UNI Packet max|TE | ≤1100𝑛𝑠 ≤1100𝑛𝑠 L Packet max|TE | ≤60𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅2) ≤100𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) RL ≤190𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) 1PPS max|TE | ≤1100𝑛𝑠 ≤1100𝑛𝑠 L 1PPS max|TE | ≤60𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅2) ≤100𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) RL ≤190𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) Frequency Limit ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (PRTC Class-A) The above limits applicable for both Normal and Re-arrangement scenarios.

# 3 SYNC from Backhaul (LLS-C3)-Normal State (Passive Port

# 4 Monitoring)
Test ID SYNC.RE.15 Classification Resiliency, Synchronization, Performance, Absolute Time Error, Relative Time Error Test Title Timing Resiliency in Ring Topology-O-DU connected to HSR and SYNC from Backhaul-Normal State without any Fail-over conditions exist. (Passive Port Monitoring) Test Objective: 1. Verify the Clock Lock states on BRs, HSRs and CSRs. 2. Verify the steady-state clock advertisements on BRs, HSRs and CSRs. 3. Verify the Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝐿 4. Verify the Maximum Relative Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) between two O-RU 𝑅𝐿 UNI ports. 5. Verify the Maximum Absolute 1PPS Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝐿 6. Verify the Time Wander at the O-RU UNI. Pre-Req ✓ Both T-GM1 and T-GM2 are available to the network. ✓ Clock parameters of both T-GM1 and T-GM2 are same except GMCID. ✓ Port-Identity of T-GM1 < Port-Identity of T-GM2. Test Topology: The test topology above illustrates the placement of clock tester at the measurement plane with 1PPS and 10MHz reference from GNSS simulator connected to clock tester. The tester measurement ports at O-RU UNI connected to CSR. Stateful (ST) refers to the port configuration of neither explicit timeTransmitter nor explicit timeReceiver. When configured, it refers to the dynamic state of the port based on the received Announce message. Test Configuration 1. Clock Tester at O-RU UNI receives timing input on its measurement port. 2. Provide 1PPS and 10MHz reference to Clock Tester from GNSS simulator. 3. G.8275.1 Full Timing Support profile. 4. Introduce Asymmetry of 1000ns between BR3 and BR5. Procedure: Detailed Test procedure: 1. Connect both T-GMs to GNSS Simulator. 2. Configure T-GMs, BRs, HSRs and CSRs with G.8275.1 profile. 3. Connect Clock Tester measurement ports to CSRs TimeTransmitter ports to monitor PTP at the O-RU UNI. Verifications for Clock Advertisements 1. BR1 shall select clock from T-GM1 (T-GM1 is better by topology) based on Port- id of Sender of A and sender of B). 2. BR2 shall select clock from T-GM1 (T-GM1 is better by topology) based on Port- id of Sender of A and sender of B). 3. Verify the clock lock state on BRs, HSRs, CSRs. The lock state should be Phase-aligned. 4. After step-4 in Test Configuration, Verify Performance Measurement during steady state. (1PPS and Packet Time Error should show an Error of +/-500ns) 5. BR6 should raise an alarm based on the configured Alarm Threshold. 6. BR6 should estimate the path asymmetry between the two paths. 7. Verify the steady-state clock advertisements on BRs, HSRs and CSRs as per ITU-T G.8275.1 Standard-Appendix V, Table V.3. Verifications for Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error 1. Verify that PTP session is up and running between T-GM and CSR. 2. Verify time error measurements using Clock Tester for the PTP flows from CSR at the O-RU UNI. a. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) b. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) Verifications for Maximum Relative Packet Time Error (NOTE1) 1. Perform time error measurements on Clock Tester at O-RU1 and O-RU2 plane independently. Collect the data (𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸1,𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸1) 𝑎𝑛𝑑 (𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸2,𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸2) for both O-RU UNI at least for a period of 1000sec. 2. Estimate the Maximum Relative Time Error measurements between the O-RU UNI ports. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤60𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅2) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤190𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 c. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤100𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 As per ITU-T G.8271.1 Appendix-V1, the requirement is not to measure the continuous relative time error, TE (t), but to measure the maximum possible value it RL can take. 𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸 (1)−𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸 (2) max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)𝑡ℎ𝑒 𝑔𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡 𝑜𝑓 { 𝐿 𝐿 𝑅𝐿 𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸 (2)−𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸 (1) 𝐿 𝐿 Verifications for Maximum Absolute 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify that PTP session is up and running between T-GM and CSR. 2. Verify the 1PPS time error measurements using Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI. a. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) b. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) Verifications for Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify that PTP and SyncE session is up and running. 2. Estimate the Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error measurements between the O-RU UNI ports. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤60𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅2) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤190𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 c. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤100𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 Verifications for Time Wander 1. Verify the Time Wander using Clock tester at the O-RU UNI. a. Frequency Limit is≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (For PRTC Class-A) b. MTIE mask as per the limit specified. NOTE1 (As per G.8271.1): To measure the relative time error, measure the time error from each point with respect to the internal time reference of measurement equipment, and then subtracting time error of one point from the other. Pass/Fail Criteria: Test shall pass if the Maximum Absolute TE, Relative TE and Time Wander Limit result is within the specified limits. Test Output End-to-End Expected Value Observed Network Limit at O- Value (For Enhanced RU) (For Regular RU) RU UNI Packet max|TE | ≤1100𝑛𝑠 ≤1100𝑛𝑠 L Packet max|TE | ≤60𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅2) ≤100𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) RL ≤190𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) 1PPS max|TE | ≤1100𝑛𝑠 ≤1100𝑛𝑠 L 1PPS max|TE | ≤60𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅2) ≤100𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) RL ≤190𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) Frequency Limit ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (PRTC Class-A) The above limits for max|TE | doesn’t include the error due to Manual Asymmetry. L

### 9.2.16 Timing Resiliency in Ring Topology-O-DU connected to HSR and SYNC from Midhaul (LLS-C3)-Normal State (Case-1: T-GM1 is the
preferred GM) Test ID SYNC.RE.16 Classification Resiliency, Synchronization, Performance, Absolute Time Error, Relative Time Error Test Title Timing Resiliency in Ring Topology-O-DU connected to HSR and SYNC from Midhaul-Normal State without any Fail-over conditions exist. (Case-1: T-GM1 is the preferred GM) Test Objective: 1. Verify the Clock Lock states on BRs, HSRs and CSRs. 2. Verify the steady-state clock advertisements on BRs, HSRs and CSRs. 3. Verify the Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝐿 4. Verify the Maximum Relative Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) between two O-RU 𝑅𝐿 UNI ports. 5. Verify the Maximum Absolute 1PPS Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝐿 6. Verify the Time Wander at the O-RU UNI. Pre-Req ✓ T-GM1 is the Primary GM and T-GM2 is the Secondary GM in the Midhaul. ✓ Clock parameters of both T-GM1 and T-GM2 are same except Priority-2 & GMCID. ✓ Priority-2 on T-GM1=1 and T-GM2=2. Test Topology: The test topology above illustrates the placement of clock tester at the measurement plane with 1PPS and 10MHz reference from GNSS simulator connected to clock tester. The tester measurement ports at O-RU UNI connected to CSR. Stateful (ST) refers to the port configuration of neither explicit timeTransmitter nor explicit timeReceiver. When configured, it refers to the dynamic state of the port based on the received Announce message. Test Configuration 1. Clock Tester at O-RU UNI receives timing input on its measurement port. 2. Provide 1PPS and 10MHz reference to Clock Tester from GNSS simulator. 3. G.8275.1 Full Timing Support profile. Procedure: Detailed Test procedure: 1. Connect both T-GMs to GNSS Simulator. 2. Configure T-GMs, BRs, HSRs and CSRs with G.8275.1 profile. 3. Connect Clock Tester measurement ports to CSRs TimeTransmitter ports to monitor PTP at the O-RU UNI. Verifications for Clock Advertisements 1. Verify the clock lock state on BRs, HSRs, CSRs. The lock state should be Phase-aligned. 2. Verify the steady-state clock advertisements on BRs, HSRs and CSRs as per ITU-T G.8275.1 Standard-Appendix V, Table V.3. Verifications for Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error 1. Verify that PTP session is up and running between T-GM and CSR. 2. Verify time error measurements using Clock Tester for the PTP flows from CSR at the O-RU UNI. a. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) b. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) Verifications for Maximum Relative Packet Time Error (NOTE1) 1. Perform time error measurements on Clock Tester at O-RU1 and O-RU2 plane independently. Collect the data (𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸1,𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸1) 𝑎𝑛𝑑 (𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸2,𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸2) for both O-RU UNI at least for a period of 1000sec. 2. Estimate the Maximum Relative Time Error measurements between the O-RU UNI ports. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤60𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅2) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤190𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 c. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤100𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 As per ITU-T G.8271.1 Appendix-V1, the requirement is not to measure the continuous relative time error, TE (t), but to measure the maximum possible value it RL can take. 𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸 (1)−𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸 (2) max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)𝑡ℎ𝑒 𝑔𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡 𝑜𝑓 { 𝐿 𝐿 𝑅𝐿 𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸 (2)−𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸 (1) 𝐿 𝐿 Verifications for Maximum Absolute 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify that PTP session is up and running between T-GM and CSR. 2. Verify the 1PPS time error measurements using Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI. a. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) b. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) Verifications for Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify that PTP and SyncE session is up and running. 2. Estimate the Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error measurements between the O-RU UNI ports. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤60𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅2) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤190𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 c. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤100𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 Verifications for Time Wander 1. Verify the Time Wander using Clock tester at the O-RU UNI. a. Frequency Limit is ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (For PRTC Class-A) b. MTIE mask as per the limit specified. NOTE1 (As per G.8271.1): To measure the relative time error, measure the time error from each point with respect to the internal time reference of measurement equipment, and then subtracting time error of one point from the other. Pass/Fail Criteria: Test shall pass if the Maximum Absolute TE, Relative TE and Time Wander Limit result is within the specified limits. Test Output End-to-End Expected Value Observed Network Limit at O- Value (For Enhanced RU) (For Regular RU) RU UNI Packet max|TE | ≤1100𝑛𝑠 ≤1100𝑛𝑠 L Packet max|TE | ≤60𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅2) ≤100𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) RL ≤190𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) 1PPS max|TE | ≤1100𝑛𝑠 ≤1100𝑛𝑠 L 1PPS max|TE | ≤60𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅2) ≤100𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) RL ≤190𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) Frequency Limit ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (PRTC Class-A) The above limits applicable for both Normal and Re-arrangement scenarios.

### 9.2.17 Timing Resiliency in Ring Topology-O-DU connected to HSR and SYNC from Midhaul (LLS-C3)-T-GM1 to HSR1 Link Down. (Case-

# 4 1: T-GM1 is the preferred GM)
Test ID SYNC.RE.17 Classification Resiliency, Synchronization, Performance, Absolute Time Error, Relative Time Error Test Title Timing Resiliency in Ring Topology-O-DU connected to HSR and SYNC from Midhaul-T-GM to HSR1 Link Down. (Case-1: T-GM1 is the preferred GM) Test Objective: 1. Verify the Clock Lock states on BRs, HSRs and CSRs. 2. Verify the steady-state clock advertisements on BRs, HSRs and CSRs. 3. Verify the Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝐿 4. Verify the Maximum Relative Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) between two O-RU 𝑅𝐿 UNI ports. 5. Verify the Maximum Absolute 1PPS Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝐿 6. Verify the Time Wander at the O-RU UNI. Pre-Req ✓ T-GM1 is the Primary GM and T-GM2 is the Secondary GM in the Midhaul. ✓ Clock parameters of both T-GM1 and T-GM2 are same except Priority-2 & GMCID. ✓ Priority-2 on T-GM1=1 and T-GM2=2. Test Topology: The test topology above illustrates the placement of clock tester at the measurement plane with 1PPS and 10MHz reference from GNSS simulator connected to clock tester. The tester measurement ports at O-RU UNI connected to CSR. Stateful (ST) refers to the port configuration of neither explicit timeTransmitter nor explicit timeReceiver. When configured, it refers to the dynamic state of the port based on the received Announce message. Test Configuration 1. Pre-condition-Test 9.2.11 Configuration. 2. Fail the link between T-GM1 and HSR1. Procedure: Detailed Test procedure: 1. Connect both T-GMs to GNSS Simulator. 2. Configure T-GMs, BRs, HSRs and CSRs with G.8275.1 profile. 3. Connect Clock Tester measurement ports to CSRs TimeTransmitter ports to monitor PTP at the O-RU UNI. Verifications for Clock Advertisements 1. Verify the clock lock state on BRs, HSRs, CSRs. The lock state should be Phase-aligned. 2. Verify the clock advertisements on BRs, HSRs and CSRs as per ITU-T G.8275.1 Standard-Appendix V, Table V.3. Verifications for Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error 1. Verify that PTP session is up and running between T-GM and CSR. 2. Verify time error measurements using Clock Tester for the PTP flows from CSR at the O-RU UNI. a. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) b. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) Verifications for Maximum Relative Packet Time Error (NOTE1) 1. Perform time error measurements on Clock Tester at O-RU1 and O-RU2 plane independently. Collect the data (𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸1,𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸1) 𝑎𝑛𝑑 (𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸2,𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸2) for both O-RU UNI at least for a period of 1000sec. 2. Estimate the Maximum Relative Time Error measurements between the O-RU UNI ports. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤60𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅2) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤190𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 c. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤100𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 As per ITU-T G.8271.1 Appendix-V1, the requirement is not to measure the continuous relative time error, TE (t), but to measure the maximum possible value it RL can take. 𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸 (1)−𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸 (2) max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)𝑡ℎ𝑒 𝑔𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡 𝑜𝑓 { 𝐿 𝐿 𝑅𝐿 𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸 (2)−𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸 (1) 𝐿 𝐿 Verifications for Maximum Absolute 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify that PTP session is up and running between T-GM and CSR. 2. Verify the 1PPS time error measurements using Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI. a. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) b. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) Verifications for Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify that PTP and SyncE session is up and running. 2. Estimate the Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error measurements between the O-RU UNI ports. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤60𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅2) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤190𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 c. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤100𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 Verifications for Time Wander 1. Verify the Time Wander using Clock tester at the O-RU UNI. a. Frequency Limit is≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (For PRTC Class-A) b. MTIE mask as per the limit specified. NOTE1 (As per G.8271.1): To measure the relative time error, measure the time error from each point with respect to the internal time reference of measurement equipment, and then subtracting time error of one point from the other. Pass/Fail Criteria: Test shall pass if the Maximum Absolute TE, Relative TE and Time Wander Limit result is within the specified limits. Test Output End-to-End Expected Value Observed Network Limit at O- Value (For Enhanced RU) (For Regular RU) RU UNI Packet max|TE | ≤1100𝑛𝑠 ≤1100𝑛𝑠 L Packet max|TE | ≤60𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅2) ≤100𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) RL ≤190𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) 1PPS max|TE | ≤1100𝑛𝑠 ≤1100𝑛𝑠 L 1PPS max|TE | ≤60𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅2) ≤100𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) RL ≤190𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) Frequency Limit ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (PRTC Class-A) The above limits applicable for both Normal and Re-arrangement scenarios.

# 3 SYNC from Midhaul (LLS-C3)-T-GM1 Fail-over. (Case-1: T-GM1 is the preferred GM)
Test ID SYNC.RE.18 Classification Resiliency, Synchronization, Performance, Absolute Time Error, Relative Time Error Test Title Timing Resiliency in Ring Topology-O-DU connected to HSR and SYNC from Midhaul-T-GM1 Fail-over. (Case-1: T-GM1 is the preferred GM) Test Objective: 1. Verify the Clock Lock states on BRs, HSRs and CSRs. 2. Verify the steady-state clock advertisements on BRs, HSRs and CSRs. 3. Verify the Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝐿 4. Verify the Maximum Relative Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) between two O-RU 𝑅𝐿 UNI ports. 5. Verify the Maximum Absolute 1PPS Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝐿 6. Verify the Time Wander at the O-RU UNI. Pre-Req ✓ T-GM1 is the Primary GM and T-GM2 is the Secondary GM in the Midhaul. ✓ Clock parameters of both T-GM1 and T-GM2 are same except Priority-2 & GMCID. ✓ Priority-2 on T-GM1=1 and T-GM2=2. Test Topology: The test topology above illustrates the placement of clock tester at the measurement plane with 1PPS and 10MHz reference from GNSS simulator connected to clock tester. The tester measurement ports at O-RU UNI connected to CSR. Stateful (ST) refers to the port configuration of neither explicit timeTransmitter nor explicit timeReceiver. When configured, it refers to the dynamic state of the port based on the received Announce message. Test Configuration 1. Pre-condition-Test 9.2.11 Configuration. 2. Fail the links between T-GM1 to HSR1 and HSR2. Procedure: Detailed Test procedure: 1. Connect both T-GMs to GNSS Simulator. 2. Configure T-GMs, BRs, HSRs and CSRs with G.8275.1 profile. 3. Connect Clock Tester measurement ports to CSRs TimeTransmitter ports to monitor PTP at the O-RU UNI. Verifications for Clock Advertisements 1. Verify the clock lock state on BRs, HSRs, CSRs. The lock state should be Phase-aligned. 2. Verify the clock advertisements on BRs, HSRs and CSRs as per ITU-T G.8275.1 Standard-Appendix V, Table V.3. Verifications for Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error 1. Verify that PTP session is up and running between T-GM and CSR. 2. Verify time error measurements using Clock Tester for the PTP flows from CSR at the O-RU UNI. a. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) b. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) Verifications for Maximum Relative Packet Time Error (NOTE1) 3. Perform time error measurements on Clock Tester at O-RU1 and O-RU2 plane independently. Collect the data (𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸1,𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸1) 𝑎𝑛𝑑 (𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸2,𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸2) for both O-RU UNI at least for a period of 1000sec. 4. Estimate the Maximum Relative Time Error measurements between the O-RU UNI ports. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤60𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅2) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤190𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 c. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤100𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 As per ITU-T G.8271.1 Appendix-V1, the requirement is not to measure the continuous relative time error, TE (t), but to measure the maximum possible value it RL can take. 𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸 (1)−𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸 (2) max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)𝑡ℎ𝑒 𝑔𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡 𝑜𝑓 { 𝐿 𝐿 𝑅𝐿 𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸 (2)−𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸 (1) 𝐿 𝐿 Verifications for Maximum Absolute 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify that PTP session is up and running between T-GM and CSR. 2. Verify the 1PPS time error measurements using Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI. a. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) b. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) Verifications for Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify that PTP and SyncE session is up and running. 2. Estimate the Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error measurements between the O-RU UNI ports. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤60𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅2) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤190𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 c. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤100𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 Verifications for Time Wander 1. Verify the Time Wander using Clock tester at the O-RU UNI. a. Frequency Limit is≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (For PRTC Class-A) b. MTIE mask as per the limit specified. NOTE1 (As per G.8271.1): To measure the relative time error, measure the time error from each point with respect to the internal time reference of measurement equipment, and then subtracting time error of one point from the other. Pass/Fail Criteria: Test shall pass if the Maximum Absolute TE, Relative TE and Time Wander Limit result is within the specified limits. Test Output End-to-End Expected Value Observed Network Limit at O- Value (For Enhanced RU) (For Regular RU) RU UNI Packet max|TE | ≤1100𝑛𝑠 ≤1100𝑛𝑠 L Packet max|TE | ≤60𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅2) ≤100𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) RL ≤190𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) 1PPS max|TE | ≤1100𝑛𝑠 ≤1100𝑛𝑠 L 1PPS max|TE | ≤60𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅2) ≤100𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) RL ≤190𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) Frequency Limit ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (PRTC Class-A) The above limits applicable for both Normal and Re-arrangement scenarios.

### 9.2.19 Timing Resiliency in Ring Topology-O-DU connected to HSR and SYNC from Midhaul (LLS-C3)-Link Failure in Fronthaul. (Case-1: T-

# 4 GM1 is the preferred GM)
Test ID SYNC.RE.19 Classification Resiliency, Synchronization, Performance, Absolute Time Error, Relative Time Error Test Title Timing Resiliency in Ring Topology-O-DU connected to HSR and SYNC from Midhaul-Link Failure in Fronthaul. (Case-1: T-GM1 is the preferred GM) Test Objective: 1. Verify the Clock Lock states on BRs, HSRs and CSRs. 2. Verify the steady-state clock advertisements on BRs, HSRs and CSRs. 3. Verify the Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝐿 4. Verify the Maximum Relative Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) between two O-RU 𝑅𝐿 UNI ports. 5. Verify the Maximum Absolute 1PPS Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝐿 6. Verify the Time Wander at the O-RU UNI. Pre-Req ✓ T-GM1 is the Primary GM and T-GM2 is the Secondary GM in the Midhaul. ✓ Clock parameters of both T-GM1 and T-GM2 are same except Priority-2 & GMCID. ✓ Priority-2 on T-GM1=1 and T-GM2=2. Test Topology: The test topology above illustrates the placement of clock tester at the measurement plane with 1PPS and 10MHz reference from GNSS simulator connected to clock tester. The tester measurement ports at O-RU UNI connected to CSR. Stateful (ST) refers to the port configuration of neither explicit timeTransmitter nor explicit timeReceiver. When configured, it refers to the dynamic state of the port based on the received Announce message. Test Configuration 1. Pre-condition-Test 9.2.11 Configuration. 2. Fail the link between HSR3 and CSR1. Procedure: Detailed Test procedure: 1. Connect both T-GMs to GNSS Simulator. 2. Configure T-GMs, BRs, HSRs and CSRs with G.8275.1 profile. 3. Connect Clock Tester measurement ports to CSRs TimeTransmitter ports to monitor PTP at the O-RU UNI. Verifications for Clock Advertisements 1. Verify the clock lock state on BRs, HSRs, CSRs. The lock state should be Phase-aligned. 2. Verify the clock advertisements on BRs, HSRs and CSRs as per ITU-T G.8275.1 Standard-Appendix V, Table V.3. Verifications for Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error 1. Verify that PTP session is up and running between T-GM and CSR. 2. Verify time error measurements using Clock Tester for the PTP flows from CSR at the O-RU UNI. a. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) b. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) Verifications for Maximum Relative Packet Time Error (NOTE1) 1. Perform time error measurements on Clock Tester at O-RU1 and O-RU2 plane independently. Collect the data (𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸1,𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸1) 𝑎𝑛𝑑 (𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸2,𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸2) for both O-RU UNI at least for a period of 1000sec. 2. Estimate the Maximum Relative Time Error measurements between the O-RU UNI ports. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤60𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅2) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤190𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 c. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤100𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 As per ITU-T G.8271.1 Appendix-V1, the requirement is not to measure the continuous relative time error, TE (t), but to measure the maximum possible value it RL can take. 𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸 (1)−𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸 (2) max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)𝑡ℎ𝑒 𝑔𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡 𝑜𝑓 { 𝐿 𝐿 𝑅𝐿 𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸 (2)−𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸 (1) 𝐿 𝐿 Verifications for Maximum Absolute 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify that PTP session is up and running between T-GM and CSR. 2. Verify the 1PPS time error measurements using Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI. a. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) b. max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) Verifications for Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify that PTP and SyncE session is up and running. 2. Estimate the Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error measurements between the O-RU UNI ports. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤60𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅2) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤190𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 c. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤100𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 Verifications for Time Wander 1. Verify the Time Wander using Clock tester at the O-RU UNI. a. Frequency Limit is≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (For PRTC Class-A) b. MTIE mask as per the limit specified. NOTE1 (As per G.8271.1): To measure the relative time error, measure the time error from each point with respect to the internal time reference of measurement equipment, and then subtracting time error of one point from the other. Pass/Fail Criteria: Test shall pass if the Maximum Absolute TE, Relative TE and Time Wander Limit result is within the specified limits. Test Output End-to-End Expected Value Observed Network Limit at O- Value (For Enhanced RU) (For Regular RU) RU UNI Packet max|TE | ≤1100𝑛𝑠 ≤1100𝑛𝑠 L Packet max|TE | ≤60𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅2) ≤100𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) RL ≤190𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) 1PPS max|TE | ≤1100𝑛𝑠 ≤1100𝑛𝑠 L 1PPS max|TE | ≤60𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅2) ≤100𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) RL ≤190𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) Frequency Limit ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (PRTC Class-A) The above limits applicable for both Normal and Re-arrangement scenarios.

# 3 SYNC from Midhaul (LLS-C3)-Asymmetry Test. (Case-1: T-GM1 is the preferred GM)
Test ID SYNC.RE.20 Classification Resiliency, Synchronization, Performance, Absolute Time Error, Relative Time Error Test Title Timing Resiliency in Ring Topology-O-DU connected to HSR and SYNC from Midhaul-Asymmetry Test. (Case-1: T-GM1 is the preferred GM) Test Objective: 1. Verify the Clock Lock states on BRs, HSRs and CSRs. 2. Verify the steady-state clock advertisements on BRs, HSRs and CSRs. 3. Verify the Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝐿 4. Verify the Maximum Relative Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) between two O-RU 𝑅𝐿 UNI ports. 5. Verify the Maximum Absolute 1PPS Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at O-RU UNI. 𝐿 6. Verify the Time Wander at the O-RU UNI. Pre-Req ✓ T-GM1 is the Primary GM and T-GM2 is the Secondary GM. ✓ Clock parameters of both T-GM1 and T-GM2 are same except Priority-2 & GMCID. ✓ Priority-2 on T-GM1=1 and T-GM2=2. Test Topology: The test topology above illustrates the placement of clock tester at the measurement plane with 1PPS and 10MHz reference from GNSS simulator connected to clock tester. The tester measurement ports at O-RU UNI connected to CSR. Stateful (ST) refers to the port configuration of neither explicit timeTransmitter nor explicit timeReceiver. When configured, it refers to the dynamic state of the port based on the received Announce message. Test Configuration 1. As per Test 9.2.11. 2. Introduce Asymmetry of +1000ns at the O/p of T-GM1 and No Asymmetry at the O/p of T-GM2. 3. Configure Asymmetry Compensation of +1000ns on HSR1 and HSR2. Procedure: Detailed Test procedure: 1. Connect both T-GMs to GNSS Simulator. 2. Configure T-GMs, BRs, HSRs and CSRs with G.8275.1 profile. 3. Connect Clock Tester measurement ports to CSRs TimeTransmitter ports to monitor PTP at the O-RU UNI. Verifications for Clock Advertisements 1. Verify the clock lock state on BRs, HSRs, CSRs. The lock state should be Phase-aligned. 2. Verify the steady-state clock advertisements on BRs, HSRs and CSRs as per ITU-T G.8275.1 Standard-Appendix V, Table V.3. After Step-2 of Test Configurations Verifications for Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error and 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify Performance Measurement during steady state. (1PPS and Packet Time Error should show an additional Error of +/-500ns due to Asymmetry) Verifications for Maximum Relative Packet Time Error (NOTE1) 1. Perform time error measurements on Clock Tester at O-RU1 and O-RU2 plane independently. Collect the data (𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸1,𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸1) 𝑎𝑛𝑑 (𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸2,𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸2) for both O-RU UNI at least for a period of 1000sec. 2. Estimate the Maximum Relative Time Error measurements between the O-RU UNI ports. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤60𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅2) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤190𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 c. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤100𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 As per ITU-T G.8271.1 Appendix-V1, the requirement is not to measure the continuous relative time error, TE (t), but to measure the maximum possible value it RL can take. 𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸 (1)−𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸 (2) max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)𝑡ℎ𝑒 𝑔𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡 𝑜𝑓 { 𝐿 𝐿 𝑅𝐿 𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑇𝐸 (2)−𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑇𝐸 (1) 𝐿 𝐿 Verifications for Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify that PTP and SyncE session is up and running. 2. Estimate the Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error measurements between the O-RU UNI ports. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤60𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅2) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤190𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 c. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤100𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 Verifications for Time Wander 1. Verify the Time Wander using Clock tester at the O-RU UNI. a. Frequency Limit is≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (For PRTC Class-A) b. MTIE mask as per the limit specified. NOTE1 (As per G.8271.1): To measure the relative time error, measure the time error from each point with respect to the internal time reference of measurement equipment, and then subtracting time error of one point from the other. After Step-3 of Test Configurations Verifications for Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error and 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify Performance Measurement during steady state. (1PPS and Packet Time Error shouldn’t show any additional Error of +/-500ns due to Asymmetry) Verifications for Maximum Relative Packet Time Error and 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify the Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error measurements between the O- RU UNI ports. The results should be as per Test 9.2.11. Pass/Fail Criteria: Test shall pass if the Maximum Absolute TE, Relative TE and Time Wander Limit result is within the specified limits. Test Output End-to-End Expected Value Observed Network Limit at O- Value (For Enhanced RU) (For Regular RU) RU UNI Packet max|TE | ≤1100𝑛𝑠 ≤1100𝑛𝑠 L Packet max|TE | ≤60𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅2) ≤100𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) RL ≤190𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) 1PPS max|TE | ≤1100𝑛𝑠 ≤1100𝑛𝑠 L 1PPS max|TE | ≤60𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅2) ≤100𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) RL ≤190𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) Frequency Limit ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (PRTC Class-A) The above limits for max|TE | doesn’t include the error due to Manual Asymmetry. L

## 9.3 Timing Solution Additional use cases in LLS-C3 and LLS-C4
config This chapter specify a few additional use cases in LLS-C3 and LLS-C4 config models. Also LLS-C3 and LLS- C4 mixed configuration with and without GNSS assist and redundant T-GMs for co-located DUs and RUs are discussed. Each of these use cases are specified with performance limits and Pass/Fail verdict in normal and fail-over scenarios of GNSS and T-GM. These use cases in high level are already mentioned in the O-RAN WG9 Synchronization Architecture and Solution Specification. Depending on the specific O-RAN deployment being considered, not all of them might be relevant. When testing the S-Plane, the System Integrator shall identify which of the test cases are relevant depending on the specific deployment scenarios addressed. Following high level use cases have been covered in this chapter and each of these use cases, clock performance limits are discussed for normal and failover scenarios.

# 16 1. LLS-C3 and LLS-C4 Configuration and Use case.
a. LLS-C4 with PTP frequency backup from T-GM b. LLS-C4 with PTP time backup from T-GM c. LLS-C4 and LLS-C3 mixed configurations for co-located DUs and RUs d. LLS-C4 and LLS-C3 mixed configurations for co-located DUs and RUs (GNSS Failure at O-

# 21 RU site)
e. LLS-C4 and LLS-C3 mixed configurations with backup from T-GM for co-located DUs and

# 23 RUs
f. LLS-C4 and LLS-C3 mixed configurations with backup from T-GM for co-located DUs and

# 25 RUs (GNSS Failure at O-RU site)
g. LLS-C4 and LLS-C3 mixed configurations with backup from redundant T-GM for co-located DUs and Rus (GNSS Failure at O-RU site and T-GM-A Failure) h. LLS-C3 configurations with GNSS assisted CSR for co-located DUs and RUs i. LLS-C3 configurations with (GNSS+PRTC) assisted CSR for co-located DUs and RUs j. LLS-C3 configurations with GNSS assisted CSR with backup from redundant T-GM for co- located DUs and RUs k. LLS-C3 configurations with GNSS assisted CSR with backup from redundant T-GM for co- located DUs and RUs (GNSS Failure at CSR site) l. LLS-C3 configurations with GNSS assisted CSR with backup from redundant T-GM for co- located DUs and RUs (GNSS Failure at CSR site and T-GM-A Failure) O-RU UNI specified in the topology is for the network measurement. Two measurement planes have been specified in the document to cover all measurements. One at O-RU UNI for measuring X-haul network limits (Packet + 1PPS) and other at 1PPS measurement plane of O-RU to measure the 1PPS performance limits of O-RU in LLS-C4 configuration. Operator to position the Tester on these measurement planes for conducting the respective test. The performance limits of O-RU in LLS-C4 when it is locked to local GNSS receiver has been specified in O- RAN.WG4.CUS documents. As per this specifications, the budget shall be based on ITU-T G.8272 (PRTC class A, with max |TE|=100ns, or PRTC class B, with max |TE|=40ns on each GNSS receiver and max |TE|=30ns on O-RU. Max|TE| O-RU includes the O-RU clock recovery error from Local Time Source and any O-RU internal error. The LLS-C4 test cases in this section assumes the O-RU T-TSC Error of 10ns and O- RU internal Error of 20ns to arrive at the possible limits. The test cases apply to both lab and field deployment cases. The test topologies in this test specification specify only few Transport Node Elements (TNEs) for illustration. However, for lab cases, the type and number of inserted Transport Node Elements (TNE) will be determined by operators (or any other applicable some are at the O-RU 1PPS interfaces. The Xhaul UNI interfaces include O-RU Fronthaul UNI, O-DU

# 7 Fronthaul or Midhaul UNI.
1PPS test at O-RU UNI is typically used for debugging and monitoring the packet layer performance of the nearest TNE in the fronthaul. The intention of such test is that if the TNE vendor implemented the 1PPS interface, the 1PPS error measured on such interface at the O-RU UNI should be a reflection of the output time error of TNE. Operator shall pay attention to an unacceptably large deviation of 1PPS error, beyond the limits specified, which may indicate an incorrect behaviour of TNEs. The Test Topologies in all the test cases uses GNSS simulator to generate the GNSS signal to the network PRTC/T-GM. This high-quality reference from the simulator is used as the external reference for clock testers as well. The resultant accuracy of this method is a few nanoseconds. However, one can also use a GNSS signal feeding both the initial PRTC/T-GM in the network and the reference clock generating a 1pps/10MHz used to synchronize the clock testers for the measurements. Operator can make an allowance in this case, for all of the measurements for the accuracy of the reference. The magnitude of this allowance will depend on the specific GNSS reference in use. For relative time error measurements at UNI (e.g., O-RU Fronthaul UNI) this document uses the metric max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2) as defined in [88], Appendix XI. Please note this metric represents an estimation and the 𝑅𝐿 worst-case scenario. Tests that meet (are below) the limits are seen as PASS. Tests not meeting this metric may still be acceptable. The decision is for operators to make. However, if the measurement equipment support relative time error measurement, operator can use such equipment. Refer ITU-T G.8271.1 Appendix

# 26 XI for more details.
For Frequency Limit at UNI (e.g., O-RU Fronthaul UNI) this document uses the metric defined as per WG4 section H.2 based on PRTC class for LLS-C3 configuration. Applicable MTIE limit shall apply for Frequency as per WG4 specification.

# 31 9.3.1 Network Time Synchronization-LLS-C4 with PTP frequency backup
from T-GM Test ID SYNC.TE.3 Classification Synchronization, Performance, Absolute Time Error, Relative Time Error Test Title Measurement of Absolute Time Error, Relative Time Error at the 1PPS measurement plane of O-RU. LLS-C4 with PTP frequency backup from T-GM. Test Objective: 1. Verify the Maximum Absolute 1PPS Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at 1PPS 𝐿 Measurement Plane of O-RUs. 2. Verify the Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at 1PPS 𝑅𝐿 Measurement Plane between O-RUs. Pre-Req T-GM/PRTC connected to GNSS simulator and ensure T-GM is locked. Tester 1PPS measurement port connected to O-RU 1PPS out is the measurement plane. Test Topology: The test topology above illustrates the placement of clock tester at the 1PPS measurement plane with 1PPS and 10MHz reference connected to clock tester. Test Configuration 1. T-GM, CSR, O-RUs and O-DUs are connected and configured as shown in the Test Topology. 2. Clock Tester at O-RU 1PPS measurement plane receives timing input on its measurement port. 3. Provide 1PPS and 10MHz reference to Clock Tester from GNSS simulator. 4. GNSS (PRTC-A) is connected to O-RU and O-DUs. 5. G.8275.1 Full Timing Support profile. Procedure: Detailed Test procedure: 1. GNSS (PRTC-A) is connected directly to O-RUs and O-DUs. 2. O-RU and O-DU use the GNSS (PRTC-A) as the primary clock source and use Frequency as backup from the T-GM at the central location. 3. Connect T-GM to GNSS Simulator and ensure that T-GM is locked. 4. Configure O-RU and O-DU as T-TSC and CSR as T-BC. 5. Enable G.8275.1 profile on all transport TNEs (CSR). 6. Connect Clock tester measurement ports to O-RU 1PPS monitor port to measure the 1PPS at measurement plane. 7. Establish PTP and Sync-E session to the fronthaul network. Verifications for Maximum Absolute 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify that PTP session is up and running between T-GM and CSR. 2. Verify that both O-RU and O-DU locked to GNSS (PRTC-A) as the primary clock source. 3. Verify the 1PPS time error measurements on Clock Tester at the 1PPS measurement plane. a. Max|1𝑃𝑃𝑆 𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the 1PPS measurement plane 𝐿 of O-RU ≤110𝑛𝑠 Verifications for Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify that PTP and Sync-E session is up and running. 2. Verify that both O-RU and O-DU locked to GNSS (PRTC-A) as the primary clock source. 3. Estimate the Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error measurements between the O-RUs at 1PPS measurement plane. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤220𝑛𝑠 𝑅𝐿 NOTE1: To measure the relative time error, measure the time error from each point with respect to the internal time reference of measurement equipment, and then subtracting time error of one point from the other. Pass/Fail Criteria: Test shall pass if the Maximum absolute TE, Maximum Relative TE, and Time Wander Limit measurement result is below the limit specified. Test Output End-to-End Expected Value Observed Network Limit Value 1PPS max|TE | at ≤110𝑛𝑠 L 1PPS measurement plane 1PPS max|TE | at ≤220𝑛𝑠 RL 1PPS measurement plane

## 9.4 Timing Solution use cases in LLS-C3 configuration for Shared O- RU
This chapter specifies the test specification for a few use cases in LLS-C3 configurations for Shared O-RU. The test specification will address cases where two O-DUs connected to O-RUs (Shared O-RUs), via an Access Transport Networks (TN). On resiliency note, we are dealing with different elements (such as T-GM and HSR associated with an ‘ACTIVE’ O-DU) that have either partially or completely failed or when there are failures in the connected interfaces on the Transport Networks.

# A Shared O-RU maintains connectivity to more than one O-DUs, for example, two O-DUs, with one of them
is considered as the ‘ACTIVE’ O-DU and other may be considered as the ‘STANDBY’ O-DU. It is also expected that an O-DU shall support multiple Shared O-RUs. For example, O-DU1 may be connected to O-RU1 and O-RU2; O-DU2 may also be connected to O-RU1 and O-RU2. If O-DU1 fails, both

# 12 O-RUs switch to O-DU2.
For the case of Shared O-RU with common transport, O-RU and Access Transport Network (TN) are all shared with a single Operator, however one or more O-DUs are managed by more than one SROs. For the Shared O-RU with separate transport, the O-RU is configured to operate with more than one Shared

# 16 Resource Operators O-DUs and the associated access TN.
For Shared O-RU using a common transport network managed by Shared O-RU host (SOH), the resiliency solution will not differ from the non-Shared O-RU. Hence the resiliency scenario is not discussed in this section. For Shared O-RU supported by separate transport networks that are managed by different SROs, each of SROs takes its own responsibility to the resiliency design to its transport network. The test specification assume that there are no failures on O-DUs and Shared O-RUs. The resiliency is based on the premise that there will always be redundant path operational for S-plane communications in the

# 23 Access Transport Network between O-DUs and Shared O-RUs.
The Shared O-RU use cases in high level are already mentioned in the O-RAN WG9 Synchronization Architecture and Solution Specification. Following use cases have been covered in this chapter and for each of these use cases, clock performance limits are discussed for normal and failover scenarios.

# 28 LLS-C3 Configuration for Shared O-RU Use case.
a. A Shared O-RU using common transport with both O-DUs managed by different SROs. b. Shared O-RUs using separate transport with both O-DUs managed by different SROs. c. Shared O-RUs using separate transport with both O-DUs managed by different SROs (Link

# 32 Failure on T-GM1).
d. Shared O-RUs using separate transport with both O-DUs managed by different SROs

# 34 (Redundant TN).
e. Shared O-RUs using separate transport with both O-DUs managed by different SROs (Link

# 36 Failure on HSR1).
f. Shared O-RUs using separate transport with both O-DUs managed by different SROs (Full

# 38 Redundancy).
g. Shared O-RUs using separate transport with both O-DUs managed by different SROs (GM &

# 40 HSR Failure).
The performance limits at the input of Shared O-RU UNI for various Shared O-RU use cases mentioned above for LLS-C3 configuration remains same as that of non-Shared O-RU. Refer clause 14.3.1 in O- RAN.WG4.CUS.0-R003-v14.00 for details. However, it is important for each operator to design and manage the network to ensure LLS-C3 network limits are met under various network failover conditions. The test cases apply to both lab and field deployment cases. The test topologies in this section specify only few Transport Node Elements (TNEs) for illustration. However, for lab cases, the type and number of inserted Transport Node Elements (TNE) will be determined by operators (or any other applicable end customer) subject to the Shared O-RU UNI limits. The test in this section is performed at Shared O-RU UNI interfaces. The Test Topologies in all the test cases uses GNSS simulator to generate the GNSS signal to the network PRTC/T-GM. This high-quality reference from the simulator is used as the external reference for clock testers as well. The resultant accuracy of this method is a few nanoseconds. However, one can also use a GNSS signal feeding both the initial PRTC/T-GM in the network and the reference clock generating a 1pps/10MHz used to synchronize the clock testers for the measurements. Operator can make an allowance in this case, for all of the measurements for the accuracy of the reference. The magnitude of this allowance will depend on the specific GNSS reference in use. For relative time error measurements at UNI (e.g., Shared O-RU Fronthaul UNI) this document uses the metric max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2) as defined in [88], Appendix XI. Please note this metric represents an estimation and 𝑅𝐿 the worst-case scenario. Tests that meet (are below) the limits are seen as PASS. Tests not meeting this metric may still be acceptable. The decision is for operators to make. However, if the measurement equipment support relative time error measurement, operator can use such equipment. Refer ITU-T

### G.8271.1 Appendix XI for more details.
For Frequency Limit at UNI (e.g., Shared O-RU Fronthaul UNI) this document uses the metric defined as per WG4 section H.2 based on PRTC class for LLS-C3 configuration. Applicable MTIE limit shall apply for

# 25 Frequency as per WG4 specification.

### 9.4.1 Timing Solution for Shared O-RU using common transport
Test ID SYNC.TE.01 Classification Synchronization, Performance, Absolute Time Error, Relative Time Error, Shared O-RU Test Title Measurement of Absolute Time Error, Relative Time Error at measurement plane of Shared O-RU UNI. Test Description LLS-C3 configurations for Shared O-RU with common transport. A single Shared O-RU connected to two O-DUs via Access TN and O-DU1 and O- DU2 are managed by SRO-1 and SRO-2 respectively. No redundancy in the Access TN. Only SRO-1 has the host privilege. This means SRO-1 additionally acts as Shared O-RU host (SOH). Test Objective: 1. Verify the Clock Lock states on O-DUs, HSRs and CSRs. 2. Verify the steady-state clock attributes on O-DUs, HSRs and CSRs. 3. Verify the Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at Shared O-RU 𝐿 UNI. 4. Verify the Maximum Relative Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at Shared O-RU 𝑅𝐿 UNI. 5. Verify the Maximum Absolute 1PPS Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at Shared O-RU UNI. 𝐿 6. Verify the Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at Shared O-RU 𝑅𝐿 UNI. 7. Verify the Time Wander at Shared O-RU UNI. Pre-Req O-RU with Shared O-RU Feature (Not shown in the diagram). Shared O-RU UNI is the measurement plane. T-GM, HSR, CSR1, CSR2 are part of common TN managed by SRO-1. O-DU1 and O-DU2 are managed by SRO-1 and SRO-2 respectively. Only SRO-1 has the host privilege. O-DU1 is the ACTIVE O-DU managed by SRO-1 and O-DU2 is the STANDBY O-DU managed by SRO-2. When the ACTIVE O-DU fails, the Shared O-RU helps identify the possible connectivity with STANDBY O-DU managed by SRO-2. Test Topology: The test topology above illustrates the placement of clock testers at the Shared O- RUs UNI connected to CSRs. 1PPS and 10MHz reference from GNSS Simulator connected to the clock reference inputs of the clock tester. Test Configuration Configure G.8275.1 profile on all devices. Procedure: Detailed Test procedure: 1. HSR uses T-GM as the Primary Clock Source. 2. CSR1, CSR2, O-DU1 and O-DU2 are locked to HSR. Verifications for Clock Attributes 1. Verify the clock lock states on O-DUs, HSRs, CSRs. The lock state should be Phase-aligned. 2. Verify the clock attributes on O-DUs, HSRs and CSRs as per ITU-T G.8275.1 Standard-Appendix V, Table V.3. Verifications for Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error 1. Verify time error measurements using Clock Tester for the PTP flows from CSRs at the Shared O-RUs UNI. a. Max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at Shared O-RUs UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Enhanced RU) b. Max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at Shared O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 (For 𝐿 Regular RU) Verifications for Maximum Relative Packet Time Error 1. Verify the Maximum Relative Time Error measurements between the Shared O- RUs UNI. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤60𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅2) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤190𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 c. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤100𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 Verifications for Maximum Absolute 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify the 1PPS time error measurements on Clock Tester at Shared O-RUs UNI. a. Max 1PPS |𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at Shared O-RUs UNI ≤ 𝐿 1100𝑛𝑠 (For Enhanced RU) b. Max 1PPS |𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at Shared O-RUs UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 𝐿 (For Regular RU) Verifications for Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error 1. Estimate the Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error measurements between the Shared O-RUs UNI. a. max|1𝑃𝑃𝑆 𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤60𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅2) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|1𝑃𝑃𝑆 𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤190𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 c. max|1𝑃𝑃𝑆 𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤100𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 Pass/Fail Criteria: Test shall pass if the Maximum absolute TE, Maximum Relative TE and Time Wander Limit measurement result is below the limit specified. Test Output End-to-End Expected Value Observed Network Limit at Value (For Enhanced RU) (For Regular RU) Shared O-RU UNI Packet max|TE | ≤1100𝑛𝑠 ≤1100𝑛𝑠 L Packet max|TE | ≤60𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅2) ≤100𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) RL ≤190𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) 1PPS max|TE | ≤1100𝑛𝑠 ≤1100𝑛𝑠 L 1PPS max|TE | ≤60𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅2) ≤100𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) RL ≤190𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) Frequency Limit ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (For PRTC Class- A)

### 9.4.2 Timing Solution for Shared O-RU with separate transport.
Test ID SYNC.TE.02 Classification Synchronization, Performance, Absolute Time Error, Relative Time Error, Shared O-RU Test Title Measurement of Absolute Time Error, Relative Time Error at measurement plane of Shared O-RU UNI. Test Description LLS-C3 configurations for Shared O-RU with common transport. Two Shared O-RUs are connected to two O-DUs via Access TN and O-DU1 and O- DU2 are managed by SRO-1 and SRO-2 respectively. Only SRO-1 has the host privilege. This means SRO-1 additionally act as Shared O- RU host (SOH). Test Objective: 1. Verify the Clock Lock states on O-DUs, HSRs and CSRs. 2. Verify the steady-state clock attributes on O-DUs, HSRs and CSRs. 3. Verify the Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at Shared O-RU 𝐿 UNI. 4. Verify the Maximum Relative Packet Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) between the 𝑅𝐿 Shared O-RUs UNI. 5. Verify the Maximum Absolute 1PPS Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) at Shared O-RU UNI. 𝐿 6. Verify the Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error (𝑀𝑎𝑥|𝑇𝐸 |) between the Shared 𝑅𝐿 O-RUs UNI. 7. Verify the Time Wander at Shared O-RU UNI. Pre-Req O-RU with Shared O-RU Feature (Not shown in the diagram). Shared O-RU UNI is the measurement plane. Both T-GM1 and T-GM2 share a common Timing Source (e.g. GNSS). T-GM1, HSR1, CSR1 and O-DU1 are managed by SRO-1. T-GM2, HSR2 and O-DU2 are managed by SRO-2. SRO-1 has host privilege. Link between HSR1 and HSR2 doesn’t use for S-Plane traffic. It is meant to carry only C/U plane traffic should the need arise. O-DU1 is the ACTIVE O-DU managed by SRO-1 and O-DU2 is the STANDBY O-DU managed by SRO-2. When the ACTIVE O-DU fails, the Shared O-RU helps identify the possible connectivity with STANDBY O-DU managed by SRO-2. Test Topology: The test topology above illustrates the placement of two clock testers at the Shared O-RUs UNI connected to a CSR. 1PPS and 10MHz reference from GNSS Simulator connected to the clock reference inputs of the clock tester. Test Configuration Configure G.8275.1 profile on all devices. Priority2 of T-GM1 < Priority2 of T-GM2. Procedure: Detailed Test procedure: 1. HSR1 uses the T-GM1 as the Primary Clock Source. 2. HSR2 uses the T-GM2 as the Primary Clock Source. 3. CSR1 and O-DU1 are locked to HSR1. 4. O-DU2 is locked to HSR2. Verifications for Clock States and Attributes 1. Verify the clock lock state on O-DUs, HSRs, CSRs. The lock state should be Phase-aligned. 2. Verify the clock attributes on O-DUs, HSRs and CSRs as per ITU-T G.8275.1 Standard-Appendix V, Table V.3. Verifications for Maximum Absolute Packet Time Error 1. Verify time error measurements using Clock Tester for the PTP flows from CSR at the Shared O-RU UNI. a. Max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the Shared O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 𝐿 (For Enhanced RU) b. Max|𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at the Shared O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 𝐿 (For Regular RU) Verifications for Maximum Relative Packet Time Error 1. Verify the Maximum Relative Time Error measurements between the Shared O- RUs UNI. a. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤60𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅2) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤190𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 c. max|𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤100𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 Verifications for Maximum Absolute 1PPS Time Error 1. Verify the 1PPS time error measurements on Clock Tester at the Shared O-RU UNI. a. Max 1PPS |𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at Shared O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 𝐿 (For Enhanced RU) b. Max 1PPS |𝑇𝐸 | measured on Clock Tester at Shared O-RU UNI ≤1100𝑛𝑠 𝐿 (For Regular RU) Verifications for Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error 1. Estimate the Maximum Relative 1PPS Time Error measurements between the Shared O-RUs UNI. a. max|1𝑃𝑃𝑆 𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤60𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅2) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 b. max|1𝑃𝑃𝑆 𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤190𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Enhanced RU) 𝑅𝐿 c. max|1𝑃𝑃𝑆 𝑇𝐸 |(1,2)≤100𝑛𝑠 (𝐹𝑅1) (For Regular RU) 𝑅𝐿 Pass/Fail Criteria: Test shall pass if the Maximum absolute TE, Maximum Relative TE and Time Wander Limit measurement result is below the limit specified. Test Output End-to-End Expected Value Observed Network Limit at Value (For Enhanced RU) (For Regular RU) Shared O-RU UNI Packet max|TE | ≤1100𝑛𝑠 ≤1100𝑛𝑠 L Packet max|TE | ≤60𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅2) ≤100𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) RL ≤190𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) 1PPS max|TE | ≤1100𝑛𝑠 ≤1100𝑛𝑠 L 1PPS max|TE | ≤60𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅2) ≤100𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) RL ≤190𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑅1) Frequency Limit ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 ≤32𝑝𝑝𝑏 (For PRTC Class- A)

### 9.4.3 Timing Solution Resiliency for Shared O-RU with separate transport

### 9.4.4 Timing Solution for Shared O-RU with separate transport (Redundant

### 9.4.5 Timing Solution Resiliency for Shared O-RU with separate transport

### 9.4.6 Timing Solution for Shared O-RU with separate transport (Full

### 9.4.7 Timing Solution Resiliency for Shared O-RU with separate transport


---

<!-- SOURCE: ORAN-WG9.WDM.0-R004-v05.00.md -->
---
title: "Technical Specification WDM-based Xhaul Networks"
---

### 5.1.2 DWDM 21
Orange Restricted Orange Restricted

## 1.1 Scope
This Technical Specification has been produced by the O-RAN Alliance. This document is intended to describe best practices for O-RAN fronthaul transport based on WDM technology. It is recognized that other solutions, not based on WDM technology, could be employed or mixed with a WDM solution. Beyond the technologies in this document, other WDM solutions may be adequate for fronthaul transport networks and can be considered for future versions of this document. The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within O-RAN WG9 and may change following formal O-RAN approval. Should the O-RAN Alliance modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released by O-RAN with an identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as follows: Release x/y/.z where: x the first digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc. (the initially approved document will have x=01). y the second digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been incorporated in the document. z the third digit included only in working versions of the document indicating incremental changes during the editing process. The present document specifies the key recommendation/requirements of Wavelength Division Multiplexing (WDM) based fronthaul transport network. WDM is a transparent solution. Following introductory section 1, section 2 concentrates on the function module of the passive, active, and semi-active WDM equipment. Section 3 concentrates on the Medium Wavelength Division Multiplexing (MWDM) and Dense Wavelength Division Multiplexing (DWDM) wavelength allocation. Section 4 concentrates on the optical transceiver and multiplexer/demultiplexer technical requirements. The next three sections concentrate on system function and performance requirements, Operation Administration Maintenance (OAM) requirement, and Management interfaces, respectively. This document uses information published by O-RAN, 3GPP, IEEE, ITU-T, and several other relevant standard bodies and industry associations. It contains educational, informative, and normative content.

## 1.2 References
The following documents contain provisions that, through reference in this text, constitute provisions of the present document.
- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition number, version number, etc.)
or nonspecific.
- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
Orange Restricted
- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a reference to a 3GPP
document (including a GSM document), a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document. [1] ITU-T G.694.1: “Spectral grids for WDM applications: DWDM frequency grid” [2] SmartTunable MSA: “Technical specification for Smart Tunable Modules”- www.smarttunable- msa.org [3] ITU-T G.652: “Characteristics of a single-mode optical fiber and cable” [4] SFF-8431: “SFP+ 10 Gb/s and Low Speed Electrical Interface” [5] SFF-8432: “SFP+ Module and Cage” [6] SFF-8472: “Management Interface for SFP+” [7] SFF-8690: “Tunable SFP+ Memory Map for ITU Frequencies” [8] IEEE Std 802.3-2018 Annex 109B: “Chip-to-module 25 Gigabit Attachment Unit Interface (25GAUI C2M)” [9] IEEE Std 802.3-2018 Clause 105: “Introduction to 25 Gb/s networks” [10] O-RAN X-haul Transport Group, WG9: “Xhaul Transport Requirements” [11] Next Generation Mobile Networks (NGMN) Alliance: “FRONTHAUL REQUIREMENTS FOR C- RAN” [12] ITU-T G.988:” ONU management and control interface (OMCI) specification” [13] ITU-T G.989 Annex B: “40-Gigabit-capable passive optical networks 2 (NG-PON2): Physical media dependent (PMD) layer specification” [14] ITU-T G.989.3 Annex F & G: “40-Gigabit-capable passive optical networks (NG-PON2): Transmission convergence layer specification [15] ORAN WG9 packet-based architecture and solutions [16] ORAN WG9 Management interface

## 1.3 Definitions and Abbreviations

### 1.3.1 Definitions
For purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions apply. <TERM: description of term> Orange Restricted

### 1.3.2 Abbreviations
For the present document, the following abbreviations apply. 3GPP 3rd Generation Partnership Project APD Avalanche Photo Diode BER Common Public Radio Interface CPRI Common Public Radio Interface CWDM Coarse Wavelength Division Multiplexing DML Directly Modulated Laser DWDM Dense Wavelength Division Multiplexing eCPRI enhanced Common Public Radio Interface FEC Forward Error Correction ITU-T International Telecom Union MCU Microcontroller Unit M plane Management Plane MWDM Medium Wavelength Division Multiplexing NGMN Next Generation Mobile Networks O-DU O-RAN Distributed Unit O-RU O-RAN Radio Unit OAM Operation, Administration, and Maintenance OD Optical Demultiplexer OM Optical Multiplexer OMA Optical Modulation Amplitude OTDOA Observed Time Difference of Arrival PD Power Detector PIN P-type Intrinsic-N type RMS Root Mean Square TDP Transmitter and Dispersion Penalty TEC Thermo Electric Cooler TFF Thin-Film Filter TNE Transport Node Equipment Tr Transceiver WDM Wavelength Division Multiplexing Orange Restricted

# U P F

# A M

# S M
F F Agg

# A A U

# A A A
U

# A U + R R2

# A A U +

# D M

# D U + C U

# R R U

# W D M

# D U + C U
A c c e ss A c c e ss M M

# E C

# E C

# M E C
Agg P riv

# P O N
a te lin e

# O LT

# 3 Function Module of the (Fronthaul) Equipment
When compared with 4G, 5G imposes higher requirements for transport networks in terms of bandwidth, latency, synchronization, reliability, and flexibility. As an important part of the transport network, the 5G fronthaul network shall meet these requirements and also address the difficulty of laying optical fibers to accommodate the exponential growth in 5G base stations. 5G Radio Access Network (RAN) deployment has two scenarios: Distributed Radio Access Network (D-RAN) and Centralized Radio Access Network (C-RAN). C-RAN concentration usually needs pooled O-RAN Centralized Unit (O-CU) and Distributed Unit (O-DU) to support implementation. For the D-RAN scenario, O- RAN Radio Unit (O-RU) is deployed on the tower or rooftop or similar, while the O-DU is deployed below the tower or in another nearby building. The 5G fronthaul network mainly realizes the remote transmission of signals from O-RU to O-DU. C-RAN architecture puts forward new requirements for 5G fronthaul networks. WDM has become a solution for fronthaul networks. There are various WDM network architectures such as passive WDM, active WDM, and semi-active WDM. C-RAN fronthaul architecture can reduce the site rental fees, maintenance costs, and power consumption of O-DU in 5G greenfield and hotspot areas and has gained the favor of operators. In this chapter, several fronthaul schemes based on WDM technologies are briefly introduced. While 5G represents a major driver for the technologies presented in this document, they can also be applied to 4G fronthaul networks. For the sake of simplicity, this document only refers to 5G.

## 3.1 Passive WDM
The passive WDM solution is based on the end-to-end all-passive method without relay amplification and dispersion compensation to save the consumption of optical fiber resources. To achieve a low-cost WDM transmission, as shown in Figure 2, the O-RU directly uses the fixed or tunable optical transceivers, connected to the passive multiplexer/demultiplexer through the branch optical cable. At the O-DU side of the central office, the passive multiplexer/demultiplexer performs wavelength multiplexing/demultiplexing, which realizes the one-to-one optical wavelength connection. Because the equipment at the O-DU side is only with colored optical transceivers, disadvantages of passive WDM include lack of management channel, weak perception of fiber link fault, the difficulty of optical transceiver operation, and maintenance that depends on manual work. Basic management functions of optical channels, fiber link fault, and the optical transceiver can be achieved in O-RU and O-DU host systems. Orange Restricted The equipment at the O-RU side and O-DU side may contain tunable optical transceivers, with active communication channels that exist within the optical carrier channel but do not affect the traffic. These transceivers allow the O-DU to exchange health, command, and control status information without the use of a supervisory channel. MSA (STM) specification for interoperable transceivers is part of a working group to allow O-RU and O-DU passive architectures to perform maintenance tasks.

## 3.2 Active WDM
The active WDM solution uses active WDM equipment for electrical and/or optical layer multiplexing at both the remote station and the central office, as shown in Figure 3 . This solution also reduces the number of fibers and can provide management functions between WDM equipment. Compared with the Passive WDM, the cost of the active WDM scheme is about 4-6 times higher, bases on operator studies, and is not conducive to large-scale deployment of 5G fronthaul. Due to the remote location of WDM equipment at the O-RU side, available power sources and outdoor location may cause difficulty in the installation of this implementation.

## 3.3 Semi-Active WDM
With the accelerated deployment of 5G networks, the fronthaul network will have thousands of nodes creating a need for management of the capability of the network. Orange Restricted The proposed semi-active WDM schemes are illustrated in Figure 4. 1) Type I 2) Type II This semi-active WDM solution is a simplification of the active WDM solution and an enhancement of the passive solution. Passive WDM at the remote O-RU side is not subject to power supply restrictions. The WDM equipment at the O-DU side of the central office is active, which can achieve monitoring, fault detection, and protection capabilities. The active WDM equipment can send management requests to the O-RU and manage the WDM optical modules within the O-RU, including query and configuration. The optical modules within the O-RU can receive management requests from the active WDM equipment and then send the OAM information of the optical modules to the active WDM equipment, including the wavelength and output power of the transmitter. The optical modules in the O-RU and the O-DU can send the OAM information of optical modules to the active WDM equipment automatically or at regular time intervals once the optical modules are powered on. The WDM optical modules can add the OAM information with the service signals and transport them together in the same optical channel. The detection unit in the active WDM equipment can demodulate the OAM information, obtain the transmission performance of O-RU and O-DU, and then report it to the control system through the standard southbound interface. The semi-active WDM type I equipment should support query, configuration, and send OAM information. To further reduce system cost, the semi-active WDM type II equipment can perform simplified management, including sending the OAM information of optical modules to the active WDM equipment. The semi-active WDM solution not only greatly reduces the pressure of optical fiber resources but also has cost advantages (compared with the active solution), management, and protection outside the optical transceiver and O-RU/O-DU host systems (compared with the passive solution). It helps operators to build 5G fronthaul networks with low cost, high bandwidth, and fast deployment. Orange Restricted

## 3.4 Phase 2 WDM Protection
For the 5G fronthaul scenario, there are several WDM protection schemes, such as optical layer protection and electrical layer protection. There are two typical optical layer protection methods to protect the optical fiber link, including 1+1 and 1:1 optical protection. The architecture of 1+1 optical protection is shown in Figure 4 (a), which is composed of a dB splitter at the remote part and a 1*2 optical switch at the local part. Figure 4(b) shows the architecture of 1:1 optical protection, which consists of two 1*2 optical switches at both remote and local parts. The 1+1 optical protection can be applied for semi-active WDM system and Active WDM system, which could not be used in the passive WDM system due to the electrical power supply requirement for the 1*2 switch at the local part. The 1:1 optical protection can only be applied for the Active WDM system, which could not be used in the semi-active WDM and passive WDM system due to the electrical power supply required for the two 1*2 switches both at remote and local parts. The key requirements of optical layer protection are listed in Table 1. Orange Restricted 1+1 optical protection 1:1 optical protection technology technology The insertion loss of remote part 3.5 dB 1.5 dB The insertion loss of local part 1.5 dB 1.5 dB The total insertion loss 5 dB 3 dB The switching time <50ms The accuracy of optical power detection ±0.5 dB The operation temperature -5 ~ +50 ℃ The functions automatic switching, manual switching, etc. Application Semi-active WDM system Active WDM system Active WDM system For both 1+1 and 1:1 optical protection, optical signals can transport from the work link to the protection link automatically by using optical power detectors in the local part of the optical protection system to monitor the receiving optical power both in the work link and protection link. The threshold value and automatically switching can be adjusted, such as the receiving optical power in the work link is lower than a certain value or the difference of receiving optical powers between the work link and protection link is lower than a certain value. Additionally, the switching from work link to protection link also can be achieved manually by using the management and control system of WDM equipment to send information to the optical layer protection system. The WDM protection function also can be performed in the electrical layer to protect WDM equipment or ports, such as SNCP protection. The WDM system should support electrical cross-connection.

# 4 Wavelength Allocation
For the 5G fronthaul based on WDM technologies, there are several competing spectral grids, such as MWDM and DWDM.

## 4.1 MWDM Wavelength Allocation
The nominal central wavelengths of 12-channels bi-directional MWDM are defined in Table 2 Direction Channel Nominal Central O-RU to O- O-DU to O- Used in Pairs No. Wavelengths (nm) DU RU

## 1267.5 - √ O-RU:
1274.5 √ - 1274.5 Orange Restricted O-DU: 1267.5

## 1287.5 - √ O-RU:
1294.5 O-DU: 1294.5 √ - 1287.5

## 1307.5 - √ O-RU:
1314.5 O-DU: 1314.5 √ - 1307.5

## 1327.5 - √ O-RU:
1334.5 O-DU: 1334.5 √ - 1327.5

## 1347.5 - √ O-RU:
1354.5 O-DU: 1354.5 √ - 1347.5

## 1367.5 - √ O-RU:
1374.5 O-DU: 1374.5 √ - 1367.5 For the 6-channels bi-directional MWDM application, the wavelengths from channel 1 to channel 6 are preferred. The central wavelength spacing of adjacent channels of MWDM transmitters is 7 nm or 13 nm. The central wavelength spacing between odd channels and the central wavelength spacing between even channels are both 20 nm, respectively. MWDM systems can satisfy the 10 km transmission or 15 dB optical power budget requirements with low-cost Directly Modulated Laser (DML) and P Type-Intrinsic-N type (PIN) chips. For transmission distances beyond km, even up to 20 km, the optical power budget can be further achieved by using a higher performance solution, e.g. Avalanche Photo Diode (APD) receiver. The applicability for MWDM is that Coarse Wavelength Division Multiplexing (CWDM) (O/E-Band) spectrum has lower dispersion penalties than DWDM, reusing low-cost optical chips. Considering relatively low channel density per fiber, MWDM is suitable for 12 or 6-channel WDM applications in 5G fronthaul.

## 4.2 DWDM Wavelength Allocation
Bidirectional and Duplex C-Band DWDM wavelength allocation requirements are to follow the ITU 100GHz grid specified in ITU-T G.694.1 [1]. Wavelength range 1529.55 – 1560.61 nm provides 40 ITU channels 21-60 that can be allocated to support optical transmission (Table 3). Note: more wavelengths could be allocated. Orange Restricted One optional Bidirectional pluggable (Figure 5) shall use a single 100GHz wavelength with an approximate +/- 50GHz offset upstream and downstream laser signals into a single 100GHz channel. Another optional bidirectional pluggable (Figure 6) shall use a single 100GHz wavelength for upstream and a single 100GHz wavelength for downstream. Orange Restricted Figure. 6 DWDM C-band Bi-Directional Wavelength allocation of bi-directional example is shown in Table 4, which is specified in Recommendation ITU-T G.698.4. wavelength frequency wavelength frequency wavelength pairs (#) （THz） （nm） （THz） （nm） 196.00 1529.55 193.40 1550.12 195.90 1530.33 193.30 1550.92 195.80 1531.12 193.20 1551.72 195.70 1531.9 193.10 1552.52 195.60 1532.68 193.00 1553.33 195.50 1533.47 192.90 1554.13 195.40 1534.25 192.80 1554.94 195.30 1535.04 192.70 1555.75 195.20 1535.82 192.60 1556.55 195.10 1536.61 192.50 1557.36 195.00 1537.4 192.40 1558.17 194.90 1538.19 192.30 1558.98 194.80 1538.98 192.20 1559.79 194.70 1539.77 192.10 1560.61 194.60 1540.56 192.00 1561.42 194.50 1541.35 191.90 1562.23 194.40 1542.14 191.80 1563.05 194.30 1542.94 191.70 1563.86 194.20 1543.73 191.60 1564.68 194.10 1544.53 191.50 1565.50 Duplex pluggable (Figure 7) shall use a single 100GHz wavelength for upstream and a single 100GHz wavelength for downstream to leverage a single passive mux/demux. Orange Restricted Another duplex pluggable, Figure 8 shall use a single 100GHz wavelength for upstream and a single 100GHz wavelength for downstream to leverage a single passive mux/demux. DWDM C-Band spectrum has higher dispersion penalties than CWDM but has higher channel densities for improved spectral efficiencies per fiber. Orange Restricted

# 5 Optical Equipment Technical Requirements
This chapter gives the basic technical requirements for the key optical equipment or modules, such as optical transceivers and optical multiplexers, and demultiplexers. The fronthaul transport systems should support transport capacity with 3ch x 25 Gbps, 6ch x 25 Gbps, et.al, and the fiber reach with link budget listed in


